T II EvVitcy and Entertaining ExploitsOF ^ ,V j.51LORGE BUCHANANC O M M ONLY CALLEDTHE KING’S FOOL.,iis - -’'"t ■THE WHOLE SIX O’Alti S COMPLETE.G L A S G O V7,PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSONft MDCCZCV.\ OF SCOTLANDjr>T H EWITTY EXPLOIT S,R. GEORGE BUCHANAN was a Scotchrjborn, and though of mean parentage, made giprogrefs in learning. As for his underftanding, and idy wit, he exceeded all men then alive in that age, t Iever propofed queftions to him. He was fervant, iteacher to King James VI. as his private counfellpr, 1publickly he acled as a fool.I It happened one day, that a young airy noblendwent into the king’s garden, to pull a flower for a yorlady he fancied. George followed at a diftance; fo wfthe young man found a flower to his pleafure, he vvo'not pull it himfelf, but to And it again, without furtlfearching, he covered it with his hat, and went away:his fweet-heart: No fooner was he gone, but up gtGeorge, lifts bis hat, pulls the flower, then eafes hindon the fpot, and covers it with the hat again, and a\\ihe goes. In comes the young man, leading his fwe;heart to pull the flower below the hat: but as foon as■lifted the hat, and faw what was below; he looked likefool. The lady flies in a paffion, off flic goes, and neiwould countenance him any more. T he young man, bt?fndly vexed at this affront done to him by George, ihim a challenge tqjfight him, appointing day and palwhere they were to riicet. Iking to fight on horfebaGeorge gets an old fliff horfe, and for haAeffing cohim about with blown bladders, w ith a little final! I’min each, without either fword or fpear, away to the fighe goes, where the duel was appointed; fo when Geofaw his enemy coming againit him, all in glitteringmour, armed with fword and fpear, he rode up to hwith all the fpeed his horfe could carry him, and 1horfe, as faid is, being all covered over with bladders, tfmall flouts in them made fuch a terrible noife, that tgentleman’s fine gelding would not Hand the battle, fcran away and threw bis mailer to the ground, which car"ed all the fpedlators to laugh and fay, The gentleman wmore fool than George. The gentleman being fo enraed at this fecond affront, be would fight with Georgefoot; but his friends perfuaded him tiiat it would be ihonour for him to fight and kill the king’s fool, and fOF GEORGE BUCHANAN, &c. 3s to be killed by the fool; fo they were advifed both toj ree. But the gentleman would try another exploit witheorge, for to have it faid, he was Hill the clevereil man,. hold him a jumping bout puhlickly the next day there-ter. With all my heart, fays George, and we will endand about where we began ; they not knowing hiscaning in this. The place and hour being fet, whereicy were to meet next morning, George, in the night,. mfed a deep pit to be made, and the eaith of it earned, ray, afterwards filled it up with dung from a privy, and. >vered it over with a green turf, fo that it might not benown by the other ground: fc’o according to promife,j iey both met in the morning againft the time appointed :Sow George being the oldeil man, and by them countedie greateft fool, the young man permitted him to jumprft, which he, according to order, performed; and jump-1 within a foot of the place where the ground was falii-ed: The young man feeing this, made his performance'ftenvards, with great airs, and all his might, fo that he. imped a foot over George, but to his oxters amongjlean dung; whereat the whole multitude of fpedlatorsIried out with huzzas and laughter. Now fays George,told you we would end in and about where we began,-nd that was in clean dirt.. On a time after this, the king and^iis court were goingnto the country, and they would have George to rideicfore them in the fool’s drefs, wheveunto he feemed un-vilhng, hut it was the king’s plcafure ; fo Geoi^e wasnonnted upon an old horfe, a pair of old riven boots, withthe heels hanging down, a palmer coat patched over with>i£tuies of divers kinds. George rode before them in tin’s|!;ollure, which caufcd great laughter and divtrfion, untilhey came to an inn, where they alighted for to dine; andhe time they were at dinner, George went into the Ita-oies, and with a knife cut all their horfes cliafts, not fore,iut fo as they might bleed. Now, as foon as dinner was'•ver, and they mounted on their liorfes again, George rid-ng before them as ufual, in his palmer coat and old boots,.hey began to make their game of him; then George turn-id about fuddenly, and clapping his hands with a loudlaughter, the king- aficed him what made him laugh fo ;4 THE WITTY EXPLOITScannot hold their peace ? O my Sovereign, fays he, doyou fee Kovt your horfes have rent all their chafts laujing at my old boots; then every man looking at his hot;mouth, they were all in a rage againft George; the Kicaufed him to be difmcnnted direitly, and charged hnever to let him fee h s face on Englilh ground. NcGeorge knowing that nothing could reconcile the Kiat tliis time, he came away to Scotland, and caufed mahim a pair of great boots, and put a quantity of Scottearth in each of them, and away he goes for Englandfee the King once more. Ke hearing the King and 'coiut were to pafs through a country village, Georplaces himfelf up in an old window, and fets up his b;tjarfe to the King and his court, as they paflcd by. TKing, being greatly amazed to fee fuch an linufual hecur done to him, was curious to know the performer;he called unto him, aflcing him to come down, and firsing it to be George, Sir, fays the King, Did not I ebarjyou never to let me fee your Lee again ? True my Sovreign, fays George, for which I let you fee my arfe. Abut fays the King, you were never to come on Engliground again: Neither did I, fays George, pulling off 1boots before the King, faying, Behold my Sovereign,is ail Scots earth I Hand upon. The King and his couLting fo diverted with this merry joke, George was amitted again to the King’s favour.After tin’s, there arole a debate betwixt the King arthe Queen about votes in the Parliament; as the Kirhad two votes, the Queen would have one, and wou'needs be a Parliamenter, or no peace without the prefement; this matter was committed to George by the Kinjfo it was agreed with the Parliamenters, that the Queefliould be admitted into Parliament for a day; and, accadingly (he came, and was received with all the honour ancongratulations which were due and becoming her higllation: but before any matter of confequence was brougltb the board, George feated himfelf hard by the Queenfeat; all being fileut, he rofc up very quickly, and lifteone of his legs, and then gave a great fart, which fet thwhole houfe a laughing; Whereat the Queen was great!offended, crying, Go take the rogue and hang him; tiwhich George anfwered, a.fine Parliamenter indeed, tOF GEORGE BUCHANAN: 5afig a man for a finlefs infirmity and that’s a fart. TheJucen being fi> enraged at this affront, put o!» her fir$:ropofal at Parliament, went off in a palfion, and never’onld countenance them any more. But yet to be rc-icftgcd on George, file would never give the King reft11 he delivered ap George into her hands, that he mighte punifhed at her pleafure ; which the King accordinglyOmmanded to be done, knowing that George would ref-ae hhnfelf by fomc intrigue or other. No looner was heelivered into her hands, to be at her difpofal, but lirend her Maries pronounced his doom, which was as fol->ws: ‘ As he had affronted the Queen among fo greatan equipage, who ought to be honoured in chief, and; above all women in the nation, that he (honld be ftontdto death, by the hand* of women.’ Now his time be.ig come that he was to die, according to their appoint-tent, he was taken into a park, where a great number ofomen were waiting upon him, with their aprons full ofones to fall upon him,, and to put him to death, acccr-mg to the Queen’s appointment.HIS SPEECH TO HIS EXECUTIONERS.* Here’s a female band, with bags of ftones,4 To kill man for rumple grones :* I’m clean of rapine, blood, and thefts,Iv * Could I convert my farts to riftai. ‘ Since I the firft for farting die,4 Clofe up the place from whence they fly :4 To commit my crime, I think ye’ll fearer,* If once you do cork up your arfe.4 And now fince women Itones do carry,4 Men need not in the world tarry.4 Judge if fuch women be chafte complete,4 With forty ftones between their feet;4 But fince ’tis fo, ye will come on,* The greateft whore throw the firft ftone.’When lie ended with thefe words, 4 The greateft whoreIhould throw the fiift ftone,’ eveiycneput it to another' cal. the finl ftone; but knowing they would attain thejiara&er of a whore for fo doing, they all refufed till theJung hour was puff, and then he took a proteft agauiftlem, and by thefe means gained in’s life.A 36T H E WITTY EXPLOITSAfter this lie was admitted to the Queen’s favour aprefence, attending the court as formerly. About t!time the French King, not knowing how to pick a qu,rel with Great Britain, fent a letter to the King, deliri1it to be read before the Parliament, and the writing vas follows: ‘ Will I come ? Will I come ? Will I comeThis letter being read before the Ling and his courtie,they all concluded that the French King defigned to i▼ade England: therefore they wrote a letter on purpo,to fend to him again, upbraiding him with the breachpeace, and putting him in mind of their laft treaty: TIletter being read over before the king and his noblthey all condefcended that it Ihould he fent as an anfvvtbut, George fmiling and flaking his head, cried out,Many men, many minds;Who knows what he deftgns ?They then a Iked George, what he thought the FrenjjKing meant by fuch a letter; to which he anfwered,,fuppofe lie wants an invitation to come over to dine, a;then go back in a friendly manner; but you are going;charge him with a breach of peace, before he has givany fignal of effenqe or war: his letter is indeed dark amyftical, but fend him an anfwer according to his queftitNow George being ordered to write the anfwer, it V' And ye come, And ye come, And ye come.’ Tbeing fent to the French King, he admired it beycexpiefilcn.. faying it was an anfwer more valiant and ding than he txpefteu; fo the enmity he intended vextinguifhed thereby and turned into love.About this time, it happened, that a malignant pa?In Scotland, fent up a great fpokefman to the King aParliament for the feducing of the Church: George he:ing of Iris coming, went away and met him on the brid;and the falutation that he gave him, was the cuttingIns head, and throwing it over the bridge; he then ranthe King with all his might, falling down before hipleading molt heartily for a pardon, or without it he \a dead man ; the King molt furioufy alked him whathad done now ? To which he anfvvered, He had othr .wn the Scotch Bifhop’s hat over the bridge, wlimade the King to laugh, to hear him alk a pardonfuch a fmall fault; but he had no fooner gotten the FOF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 7eon fcaled by tbe King’s hand, than he faid. Indeed n:ySovereign, I threw his hat over the bridge, but his headwas in it. Ccordy, Geordy, fays the King, thou wiltnever give'over till thou be hanged.After this, a nobleman in England agreed with theKing, how to put a trick upon George, to try his manlycourage, in fending him to a certain houfe for a bag ofmoney. On his way home lino’ St. James’ park, theycauftd a durdy fellow, to go and fet the way upon him,and take the money ; he, being armed with fword andpiled, came up briikly, and attacked George with thefcwords, ‘ You, .-;ir, deliver what money you have, or you4 are a dead man.’ To which George anfwered, * Sir, I‘ have money, hut it is not my own, and I am forry to‘ give it, neverthelei's, fince I am not armed as you are,4 to exchange blows for it, you fa all have it; but pray, do4 me the favour, to lire yotir piltol through the lap of my4 cloak, that the owners may fee 1 have been in danger of* my life, before I loft the money which he according¬ly performed. No fooner had he fired it, than Georgewhips out his hanger from below his cloak, and with oneftroke cut off his right hand, wherein he held his fwerd,fo that his fword and hand fell to the ground; but Georgelifted his hand, and carried it to the King. No foonerdid he come before them, but they' afkcd him, faying,4 Well George, did you fee any body to trouble you by4 the w ay ; No, faid he, but one fellow, who was going4 to take the money from me; but I made him give me4 his hand he would not do the like again.’ 4 You did,’fays the fellow’s mailer; 4 Yes, I did, fays George, Let4 works bear witnefs,’ throwing down the fellow’s handupon the table before them all.""Now this laft exploit of George’s caufed many of theEnglifti to hate him, and amongft the reft, a young noble¬man fell a joking of George, in faying, 4 He would be as4 famous a champion for Scotland as Sir William Wallace4 was.’ Ay, ay, fays George, 4 William Wallace was a4 brave man in his time.’ True, indeed, fays the other,‘ But when he came to London, we did him all manner4 of juftice, and for honour of the Scots, we have his effi-4 gy in the fhite-houfe to this very day.’ 4 And do you4 not know the reafen of that: fays George: No, I don’t8 THE WITTY EXPLOITS* fays li€: Well, I will tell you, fays George, he was fuchi* a terror to the Enghflmen when he was alive, that ai* fight of him yet makes them btfiiite themfelves.’ TheEnglifh took this anfwer as a great affront, and, forthwithcaufed Wallace’s pidlure to be taken out of that place.There was a young Engliili girl in love with a Scotfmaft,and petitioned him feveral times to marry her, which herefufed, and upon revenge thereof, ffie went to a juftice,and fwore a rape againft him, which is death by the law. IGeerge hearing this, went into the prifon where the youngman was; and inilrudted him how to behave before thejudge. So in the time of the trial George came in, whilethe judge was crying to the man, but never a w'qrd hecould get him to anfwer, or tell whether he was guilty ornot. After the judge had given him over to be deaf anddumb; others fell a (homing in his ears, but never a wordhe would fpeak. Then the judge perceiving George, cal- |led him, faying, George, do you know what is the matterwith this man? ‘Yes, I do very well:’ What is it, faysthe judge ? ‘ Why, fays George, The woman made fuch‘ a noife and crying when he was ravifhing her, it has put‘ the poor nfhn quite deaf, I affure you.’ Is it fo, fays theJudge ! 4 No, no, fays the woman, my lord judge, you4 may believe me, I lay as mute as a lamb, and never fpoke‘ a word all the time.’’ Very well confeffed, faid the judge, ‘and you have fwcrn a rape againft him! 4 Go, take the4 whore to Newgate, and fet the poor man about his bufi-‘ nefs,’ and fo it ended.PART II.GEORGE happened one night to he in company witha bilhop, and fo they fell to argumenting anent reli¬gion, wherein George ^ot the better of him, and the bi-(hop himfelf found he was wrong: then one of the com¬pany addreffed himfelf to George in thefe words, 4 Thou4 Scot, faid he, ought not to have left thy country;’ Forwhat, fays George, 4 Becaufe thou haft brought all the4 knowledge in it along with thee:’ No, no, fays George,4 The (hepherds in Scotland will argument with any bi-* (hop m England, and exceed them mighty far in know-«ledge.’ The Fng.iff clergy took this asm great affront,and feveral noblemen affirmed it to be as George had faid.OF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 9Wagers were laid thereon, and three of the Englilh cler¬gy were chofen and fent away to Scotland, to difpute itItvith the fnepherds, accompanied with feveral gentlemenwho were to bear witnefs of what they heard pafs betweendiem. Now, George hearing what way they were gene,took another road, and came into the Scots bounds fce-jfore them, made up his acquaintance with a fhepherd atShe border, whofe palture lay hard by the way-fide, wherehe clergymen wrtre to pais, and here George mountedilmfclf in a ihepherd’s drefs, and when he faw the clergy-ntn coming, he conveyed his flock to the road floe, wherefell a flnging a Latin fong; and fo to begin the quarrelone of them aiked him in French, ‘ What o’clock it wasi'To which he ar.fwered in Hebrew, ‘ it is diredlly aboutthe time of the day it was yefterday at this time.’ Ano-her aiked him in Greek, ‘ What countryman he was?’To which he anfwered in Flemiih, ‘ If you knew that,you would be as wife as myfelf.’ The thiid aiked himn Dutch, ‘ Where was you educate ?’ to which he an-vvered in Earfe, ‘ Herding my ilieep betwixt this andLoehaber:’ This they begged him to explain into Eng-ifli, which he accordingly did. Now faid they one to a-lothcr, we need not go any farther. What, lays George,we you butchers? I’ll fell you a few iheep. To this theynade no anfwer, but went away ihamefully, fwearing,hat the Scots had gone thio’ all the nations in the world10 learn their language, or the devil had taught them it,or we have no fliare here but fliair.c.After George had ended the difpute with the Engliflilergymen, he ilript off his (hepherdis dreis, and went uphrough England with all the haile imaginable, fo that herrived at the place from whence they fet out, three day*leforc them ; and went every day, aiking if they werepine, fo that he might not be fufpe&ed. Now, upon their'rival, all tnat were concerned iif the matter, and manyicrc, to Lear what news irom the Seottiih lliephcrJs, cainorowding in to know what was done. No fooiicr had thelirce gentlemen declared what had pafe between the cler-yinen and the Ihepherds, whom they found on the Scotsorder, but the old biihop made anfwer; And think you,i lid he, that a fhepherd could anfwer thefc queftions ? It1 as been none elfe but the devil: for the Spots tniniSersIO THE WITTY EXPLOITSthemfdves could not do it: They are ignorant of fuelmatters; a parcel of beardlefs boys Then Georg<thought it was time to take fpecch in hand. Well, m)lord bifhop, fays he. You call them a parcel of ignorantbeardlefs boys; you have a great long beard yourfelf, milord bifhop, and if the grace of God were meafured b«beards, you bilhops, and the goats will have it all, ancthat will be quite'averfe to feripture. What, fays th*biihop, are you a Scot? Yes, fays George, I am a ScotWell, fays the biihop, and what is the difference betweeiia Scot and a fot ? Nothing at prefent, fays George, bnthe breadth of the table, (there being a table betwixt iImbiihop and George,) fo tire biihop went off in a higlpafiion, while the whole multitude were like to fplit theijaws with laughter. ' |About this time, •'there was an a£t of Parliament fothe benefit of murderers, that any perfon who committeemurder, if they forfeited five hundred mt-rks, which wen-under the name of KIN BOOT, bccaufe fo much of thifine went to the murdered perfons neareil relations, as tinprice of blood, the murderer got a remit. Now Georgeknowing this to be contrary to Mofes’ laws, was venmuch grieved to fee fo many pardons fealed with the king’hand for murder, almoft. one every week; it being fo ufual for the king to fubicribe them, that he would not rea*them, nor enquire what they were; for which eaufe, Georg'writes a right to the crowrr, and fent it to the King to bfubferibed, which he adnally did, and never looking whait was, returned it to George: No fooner had he receiveit, but he goes to the King, and told him, it was not tirrvfor him now to be fitting there, whereat the King greatly Smazed, ffarted up; then George in a great halte fet himfe-down in the king’s chair, forthwith declaring himfclf kingfaying, ‘ Yon who was King muff be my fool, for I ar‘ now the wifeff man.’ The King at this was greatly offerded, until George {hewed him his feal and fubferiptionbut from that day forth the king knew what he fubfci ihecThe next pardon that came to be fealed by the Kingwas to a gentleman that had killed two men before, anbad gotten pardons for them by money. This being ththird, the King looked very lilent in looking over the pftition. George Handing by, alked the King what he \ftOF GEORGE BUCHANAN. njoing to feal now ? To which he anfwered, it is a remitor a man who has killed three men at fundry times, Ijave him two remits before. O ! fays George, He hastillec' but one man: and who killed the other two, fayshe King? You did, fays George; for if you had giventim jullice when he killed the firft, he had killed nonore. When the King heard thefe words, he threwlown the pen, and declared, that fuch an aft to fave anurderer, Ihould be null ever after by him.One day after this,. George having no money, he goesway and gets a pick and fpade, and then falls to dig¬ging at a corner of the king’s palace, which the kingterceiving from his window, calls what he was wantinghere? Are you going to undermine my hoafe, and make: fall? No, my Sovereign, faid he, but it is verily re¬torted, that there is plenty of mqney about this houfe,nd where can it be, fays George ? T cannot find it: forI is not within the houfe to do me fervice, then furely itmil be below it. O GeorghJ that is a crave after theew fufiiion ; what money you want, I will order it forou. Then my Sovereign, I will dig no more.One time after this, George being in the country, heamc to an inn, where he alighted to refrefh himfelf andis horfe; the inn-keeper charged him double price forvery thing he called for: George never grumbled at this,ut gave him all his demands, and away he goes on his>urney: and where he quartered the night following, heI'ai ufed after the fame manner, if not worfe. NowJeorge having little farther to go, he returned the nextay and came that night to tire inn where he had refrefii-i himfelf the day before; fo when he alighted, the boyfked him, Sir, YVhat fliall I give your horfe ? What youfill boy, fays George. No fooner had he gone into hissom, but the drawer allied him, What will you have torink, Sir ? Wnat you will, fays George. The mailer ofse inn came into his room before ftipper, allied him, Whatill you have for {upper, Sir ? What you will landlord,lys George. Now after flipper being ended, and a heartyiowl to put all over, George went to bed, and got upretty early in the morning, called for the boy to make:ady his horfe in all halle, for he defigncd to mount himad go dft-e&ly: fo in a Ihort time he went into the liable12 THE WITTY EXPLOITSwhere the boy was, calling for his horfe, and mountinghim with all the fpeed he could, giving the boy a piec-of money; faying, Here rny boy, this is for your cartaking of my horfe, I have paid for all 1 called for in thhoufc, and olf he goes. Now about mid-day he alighteagain at an inn, torefrefh himfelf and his horfe, and therhe chanced to be in company with his other landlordwhere he was the night before, who charged him witthe double reckoning; fo George addreffed himftlf to hintafter this manner: Sir, fays George, I do believe I wain your houfe here yefternight. O yes, Sir, I mind oyou pretty well; And where was you laft night ? Lairight! fays George, I was in one of the find! inns, an1with the civile!! landlorcE I ever had in my life; thebrought all things I flood in need of unto me, withoucalling for it, and when I came off this morning thecharged me nothing, and I paid nothing but fixpence tthe -boy for dreffing my horfe. Blood and wounds, faythe old fellow, then I will go there this night. Ay, fay.George, do, and mind this when they a!k you what yowill have for youVfclf and your horfe, anfwer nothing buwhat you will, Sir. Now George fmiled within himfebto think how he had got the one extortioner to take tmends of the other. So the forefoid inn keeper rode thanight, until many of the people of the inn were gone tbed before lie came in. No fooner was he lighted froihis horfe, than the boy afked him what (hall I give tyour horfe, mailer? To which he anfwered, What yowill, boy. The boy hearing this, he runs away (leavirifhim and h's horfe to Hand at the door) up flairs to h<mailer’s room, erving. Mailer, Mailer, What you will !come again ! O the vogue, cries he, Where is he? I 11 carhim ! I ll what you will him by and by ! and to him Bruns with his cane, licks him and kicks him, until he W*fcarce able to me ft his horfe, and would give him rentertainment there;.which caufed him to ride the wh<flength of a cold winter night, after he had got his bomall beat and bruifed. So the one purfned the other asmurderer ; ai d his def nee was, that he was a cheat ana fcovner of his houfe, until the truth was found out.About this time, the French King fent and detnnndefrom the King of England three men of different qua1.OF GEORGE BUCHANA.N. 13s, the one was to be a mighty livong roan, the .other.•ery wife man, and the third a great fool; fo that heght have none in all Fi ance to match them in their fla¬ms So accordingly there were two men chofen, the oneIrong man, and the other a wife man; but George wasad: as a fool: nevCrthelefs, he was the teacher of thetier two. And on their way to France, George afkede flrong man, What will you anfwer the Fi’ench Kinghe afks if you be a ftrong man? I will fay I am. Thens George, he’ll get a flronger man than you, who may1 you and affront your country. What fhall I fay then,d the flrong man ? Why, fays George, T^l him you1 flrong enough untried. Then fays George to the wifen, And what will you fay to the King, when he a fits ifu be a wife man ? I will tell him I am, and anfwer allqucflions I know. Very well, fays George, and whatthe afk you what you do not know, then you will affrontur country, and be looked upon as a greater fool thanWhat (hull I anfwer then ? faid the wife man, Why, fayssorge, tell him, He only is a wife man that can take carehimfelf; and I fhall come in after you, and take care ofu all together. No fooner were t r?y come to the King’sace, than the King fent for them to try them. Theog man be’^jg firP. called for, in he goes; then the Kinged him. Are you a flrong man, Sir ? To which he ai¬red, ‘.O King, I am ftrong enough untried.’ Veryod, faid the King. After him entered the wife man, to10m the King put the queflion, Sir, are you a wife man ?> which he anfwered, ‘ He only is a wife man that canjake care of himfelf.’ Very good, fays the King; withit George pufltes up the door, and in he goes with loudghter, pifles directly in the King’s face, which blindedlb his eyes, and fet the whole court in amaze. Now,fays the King, It is true enough the wife man fays,if I had taken care of myfelf, I needed not been piffedon by the Englifti fool. G ho, fayf George, Fools al-ys itrive to make fools of others, but wife men make■Is of themfelves. The King imagined as much as hemade the great eft fool, and charged them forthwith tohome, for he wanted no more of England’s llrcngth,do.n, nor folly.ne night after this a Highland drover chanced to haveB——5*14 THE WITTY EXPLOITSit drinking bout with an Englifh captain of a fltip, andlaft, the Englifti captain and he came to be very hearty▼er their cups ; fo they called in their fervants to have{hare of their liquor: the drover’s fervant looked like a wiman, going without breeches, {lockings, or fhoes, notmuch as a bonnet on his head, with a long peel’d runghis hand. The captain allied how long it was fincecatched him; about two years fince 1 hauled him out of tfea with a net, and afterwards he ran unto the mountaitwhere I catched him with a pack of hounds. The captabelieved it was fo: But, fays he, I have a fervant the b«fwimmer itifEurope: Oh but fays the drover, my fernwill fwim him to death. No, fays the captain, I will 1two hundred guineas on it. Then-fays the drover, I heit one for one, and flakes diredtly; the day being appoired when trial was to be made. Now the drover whencame to himfelf, thinking what a bargain he had macdid not know what to do, knowing very well his fervacould fwim none. He hearing of George being in towwho always was a good friend to a Scotfnian, he went unhim, and told him the whole ftory, and that he wouldentirely broken, and durft never return home to his ofcountry, for he was fare to lofe. Now George tailed tdrover and Jits fervant aflde, and inlltudled them howbring him off with fafety and gain too; fo accordingly thmet at the place appointed: The captain’s fervant ffrippidiredtly, and threw himfclf into the fea, taking a turn unthe Highlandman was ready, for the drover took feme titto put his fervant in order; after he was ft ripped, his mafttook his plaid, and rolled a kebfcoek of cheefe, a big band a bottle of gin in it, and this he bound on his (hoiddegiving him a direilion to tell his wile and cluluren thatwas well; to be fure he returned with an anfwer agaidthat day fe’ennight: So as he went into the fea, he lookhack to his mafttr, and cries out to him for his claymoAnd what waits he for now, fays he who was to fwim alowith him ? He wants his fword, fays his mafter. His fvvoffays the fellow: What is he to do with a fword! Why, fthis mafter, if he meet a whale or a monftror.s beaft, it isdefend his life: I know he will have to figlit his way ththe north feas, e’er he go to Lochabcr. Then cries tOther, I will fwim none with him if he takes his fcti?OF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 15y, but fays the mailer, you (hall, or lofe the wager* takeiu another fword with you. No, fays the fellow, I neverd fwim with a fword, nor any man elfe that ever I fawheard of; I know not but that wild-like man will kille in the deep water; I would not for the whole world ven-re myfelf with him and a fword. The captai^ feeing hisvant afraid to venture, or if he did, he was fure neverfee him again alive; therefore, he defired an agreementth the drover, who at firil feemed unwilling; but theptaiu put it in his will: fo the drover quit him for onendred guineas: This he came to thro’ George’s advice.PART III.FTER this, George being in Cornwall about fome  bufmefs, where he chanced to run fhort of money,d cot knowing what to do, being acquainted with nonethat country, and knowing his landlord to be loyal to theIvernment, and a great favourite to the King his mailer;takes a piece of brick, and brays it into a fmall powder,xed with a little chalk, fo that it might fcem iu colourle Arfenick, which is ilrong poifon : Then tying it upJjpapers, writing on this diredlion, ‘ The flronger poifonir the King,’ and on the other paper, ‘ The flower poi->n for the Queen.’ Ov.t he goes on purpofe, and leavespaper lying or. a table, where he knew they would beiking at them: The landlord perceived the direction; focomes George in a great haile, and calls out, * O land¬ed, did you fee two fmaii bundles I have loll, I know not.'hat I Ihall do, for it was my main bufmefs to take themj Loudon.’ O you murdering rogue! cries the landlord,"ill have you hanged for what you intend. George atmade off, and was going to fly for it, but the landlordled for alfiilance; fo he was apprehended and made pri¬or of Itate, and carried to London by a troop of horfe;en the people there began to know him and tell who he3, his guard dipt a way ihamduily and left him; fo Georger.ked them for their good company and fafe convoy.There was a law made againfl wearing fwords at ballsi aflemblies, in the icign of King James the VI. becaufey were inconvenient on thefe occafions: But George toivitty on the act, provided himfelf with a very long fcab-d, and got himielf introduced to a ball where the KingB isrc*t'i6 THE WITTY EXPLOITSand his court were prefent: G eerge made feveral turns ththe company, making his fcabbard hit again!! their Ihjjand fometimes dipt it belowa lady’s fardingalejand in ih<:molefted the company fo much that he was taken no!of, and feized as a perfon wlio had incurred the penaltof the aft^fcreiaid. But George excufed hirr.felf, telfithem, that the law was only'againft fwords, and as he owore a fcabbard, was no ways liable. At feeing this, :King and his court were convinced that the law was iperfect, and that George had more wit than themfelv-iGeorge, one day eafmg himfelf at the corner of a hedwas efpied by an Englifh ’fquire, who began to mock ha firing him. Why he did not keckle like the hens ? IGeorge, whofe wit was always ready, told him, He waifraid to keckle, left he would come and fnatch up the e,Which rebuff made the ’fquire walk off as mute as a 1George was profeffor in the college of St. Andrews,;flipt out one day in his gown and flippers, and went totravels thro’ Italy, and feveral other foreign countries,:after feven years, returned with the fame drefs he wentin; and entering the college, took poffeffion of his feat tinhut tire profeffor in his room quarrelled him for fa doiAy, fays George, it is a very odd thing, that a man cnot take a walk out in his flippers, but another will takehis feat. And fo fet the other profeffor about his bufiraGeorge was met one day by three bifhops, who paid Ithe following compliments. Says the lirft, Good-day,ther Abraham ; fays the fecond, Good-day, father Ifafays the third, Good-day, father Jacob. To which he,plied, ‘ I am neither father Abraham, father Ifaac,.‘ father Jacob; but I am Saul the fon of Kifli, feni^jf* feek my father’s affes, and lo ! I ha- e found three‘ them.’ Which anfwer convinced the bifhops, that thad miftaken their man. , _ ^A poor Scotchman dined one day at a public lioufLondon upon eggs, and not having money to pay, gotdit tiil he would return; the man being lucky in trade,nuired vaft riches; and after fume years returned, andling at the houfe where he was owing his dinner of qafked the landlord what he had to pay for his dinneeggs, he had from him fuch a time; but the landlord feihim now rich, gave him a bill ot fotne hundred peuOF GEORGE BUCHANAN. ^17ing him the reafon for fo extravagant a charge: Thatfe eggs, had they been hatched, would have been chick-;; and thefe laying more eggs, would have been moreckens; and fo on multiplying the eggs and their product,fuch a time as their value ihould amount to the fum herged The man, refufmg to comply with his demand,i^rharged before a judge ; but in the mean time, madeaffair known to George Buchanan his countryman, whoimifed to appear in the hour of caufe; which he accor-gly did, all in a fweat, with a great bafket of boiledife : which appearance furprized the judge, who alkedt what he meant by thefe boiled peafe? fays George, Igoing to fow them : When will they grow ? fays thege. They will grow when fodden eggs grow chickens,rich anfwcr, convinced the judge of the extravagancethe Englifhman’s demand, and the Scotfman was af-zied upon paying two pence halfpenny.There wras a bell at Dalkeith, which the Popifh clergyde ufe of to extort confeflion from the ignorant people,the following manner: They told the perfons whomy fufpeCted guilty, that the bell would rive at the toucht guilty perfon; but if not guilty, it would not; by thefeins they generally frightened the ignorant into confcl-1; for if the bell would rive, the perfon was then to bedemned to death: But they managed the matter fo,t the bell was never put to the trial, till George did asSows, He was taken up for faying, ‘ That the Pope wasllible himfelf; and could not pardon the fins of others:’orge owned he faid fo, but would refer to the bell vvhe-r he was guilty or not. The priefts, though unwilling,e obliged to comply. George touched the bell, re¬ting as before, ‘ The Pope is fallible, and cannot par-pn finmoreover added, ‘ The Pope and popifh clergye impoftors;’ and thereupon touched the bell, referringit for the truth j but the bell not rending, the prieftse difgraced as impoftors, and he was honourably ac-tted, and the bell was laid afide.'tcoige defired a member of the college of St. An-•vs to lend him a book; the other told him, he couldpofiibly fpare it out of his chamber, but if he pleafedmight come there and read all the day long. Some; after, the fame gentleman fent to George to borrow,*05.18 THE WITTY EXPLOITShis bellows; but he lent him word, he could not pollfpare them out of his kitchen, but he might come tland blow all the day if he would.A fcholar at the grammar fchool of St. Andrews, cmg into a room where his mailer had laid dowira Laof hnc cherries for his own eating; the waggilh hoy t:it irp, and cries aloud, I pnblilh the banns between tlcherries and my mouth, if any know any juft caufe orpediment, why thefe twm ilton'd not be joined togetlet them declare it. The mailer, being in the next nroverheard all that was faid; and coming into the fchhe ordered the boy Who had eaten his chenies to be Ien up, or as he called it, hors’d on another boy’s babut before he proceeded to the ufual difeipline, he cout aloud as the delinquent had done. I publifnbanns between this boy’s breech and my taws: ifone know any juft caule or impediment, why thefefhould not be joined together, let them declare it. Geepaffing by in the mean time, overheard this proclamaiiI forbid the banns, cried he. Why fo ? fays the lebmailer: Becaufe the parties are not agreed, repliedWhich anfwer fo pleafed the mailer, that the boyfet down without anv punifhment.; a young gentleman, that wanted to be witty on Hferiptures, eating feme cbeefe full cf mites one nigha tavern : Now, laid he, I have done as much as Sanafor I have flain my thoufands and ten thoufaftds.replied George, who'happened to be in his company,with the fame-weapon tcc, the jaw-bone of an afs; wjanfwer fet the whole company a laughing, to feeyoung gentleman beat with his own weapon.Gecrge being in company where three bilheps vprefent at dinner, they knowing George to be a gfcholar, and comical withal, they put upon him tothe grace, which he did as follows.Here are three brethren of the poat,Who for thy bleflings thank thee not;Curie them Lord, and blefs them not. Amen.Fall on gentlemen, the caufe is good. This grace nthe bilhops look like fools to one another, while Geelaughed heartily at tire confufion they were in.OF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 19A Candle-maker having had fome candles ftolen, wastelling it in a company wheie George was prefent, whobade him be of good cheer, for in a fhqrt time, fays lie,I am alfured they will come to lightiGeorge, being fent to Paris about forte bufinefs, went| from thence to V eifailles, to fee the French King’s court;j and being known there to feveral of the courtiers, who hadI been at the Enghfii court, one of them look occafion tol tell the French King, that George was one of the wittieit| men in England; upon which the French Kingdefired toI fee him, which he did; but George, it teems, war out of1 humour, or at leaft feemingly fo, and fpoke but little toIthe pmpofe; fo that the French King told the noblemanthat commended him for fuch a wit, that he looked uponhim as a very dull fellow ; but the nobleman affured thei King, that whatever he thought of him, George was a' very' witty and ingenious man ; whereupon the King wasi refolved to make further trial of him, and took him intoI a great gallery where there were abundance of fine pic-i tures; and, among the reft, (hewed him the piffture of1 Chrift on the crop; and alked him, if he knew who thatI was? but George made himfelf very ignorant, and anfwer-ed, No. Why, fays the King, l will tell you if you donot know: This iithe picture of our Saviour on the crofs,and that on the right hand is the Pope’s, and that on theleft is n?y own. Whereupon George replied, I humblythank your Majefty for the information, for tho’ 1 haveoften heard that our Saviour was crucified between two1 thieves, yet I never knew who they were before.A Sharper, who had acquired vaft riches by cheating,told George, that if fuch a thing as a good name were to!be purchafeci, he would freely give ten thoufand poundsfor one. Sir, faid George, it would certainly be the worftmoney you ever laid out in your life. Why fo, faid theSharper, Becaufe, anfwered he, you w ould lofe it in lefsI than a week.One allied George, Why men always made fuit to thewomen, and women never to the men ? Why, fays he,Becaufe the women are always ready^for the men, but the1 men are not always ready for the women.George went into the mint one dayr, when they werei ircltirfg gold. One of them alked George, if he would20 THE WITTY EXPLOITShave his hat full of gold? George readily accepted, but itsburnt the bottom out of his hat, as they knew it wouldiand for that bout they foiled George. However, Georgejto be even with them, bought a fine large hat, and caufed|a plate of copper to be put betwixt the hat, and the lin¬ing ; aad returning next day, they jeftingly alked him, I•he would have another hat full of gold? he faid he would:They gave it red hot, and George now laughed at themJin his turn ; telling them, That his new hat was a gooone, and ftood fire better than the old one, and fo carried^it off honeftly; and being afterward profecute for to re¬turn it, he exctifed himfelf, telling the judge, That he tooknothing but what was given him; and therefore he washonourably acquitted, and the other heartily laughed at.In the reign of King James the VI. George dining one' day with the Lord Mayor, after two or three healths, theininiftry wms toafled ; but when it came to George’s turnto drink, he diverted it fome time, by telling a flory to theperfon who fat next to him, the chief magiftrate not feeing Ihis toaft go round, calls out, What flicks the miniftry at?At notjjing, cries George, and fo drank off his glafs.George being one day along with the King and his Inobles a-hunting, and being but very forrily mounted;when he was fpurring up his horfe, he obferved the horfe |to have a trick of falling down on his knees, George im- |mediately thought how he fhould make ufe of that verything to divert his majefly ; therefore pretended that hishorfe could fet hares, and knowing fome hare feats, rode |that way to fhow the company the truth of what he af¬firmed, but when he had found the hare, by giving his lhorfe a fpur he immediately clapped down; this he repeat- |ed feveral times, till he put the whole company in belief |that what he had faid was true : And one of the noble¬men being charmed with the performance of George’shorfe, would have George charge with him. Georgefeemed at firfl unwilling to part with his horfe; but at lallwas prevailed upon to part with him foe the nobleman’shorfe, and a hundred guineas to boot. But afterwardsriding thro’ a river pretty deep, the nobleman fpurringhis new horfe, he clapped down on his belly; which Georgefeeing, called out to the company to return with the dogsfor the nobleman’s horfe had certainly fct a hare; whichOF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 21;t the whole company a laughing. The poor nobleman.'as obb’ged to leave his hotfe let in the water, and wad-le thro’ on foot, all wet to the (boulders.A Scotfman being reduced to poverty, made his court0 George to put him in a way; George told him hepould, providing he would do as he directed him. Therevas an old mifer, an ufurcr and money-changer hard by ;Jeorge defired the poor fellow to pretend an errand to thenifer, and when he came to the table where the heaps ofnoney lay, to thruft. his hand among the gold, but to lifttone and run off. This the poor fellow did, and was chafed>y the mifer, and his fervants, who ran after him into thetreet, calling, Stop the thief: The poor fellow wa$ ftoptGeorge had defired him to let them catch him.)Ueorge appeared in the mob, and went-along with thejoor fellow, who was carried before a judge, where he wasearched, and nothing being found upon him, he was ac¬quitted, and the mifer lined in a large fum for accufingrim. Afterwards, George defired him to go to the famealace, and thruft in both his hands, and lift up as muchis he could, and run off. This he did, hut the mifer toldlim he was not fuch a fool as to follow him, for he knewae ddigned to play the fool, to have him lined again. Bythefe means the poor fellow was enriched, and afterwardsJved honeftly. #George, being at dinner one day where the broth wasexceeding hot, burnt his mouth, at the fame time lettingjgo a loud fart. It is very good for you, fays George, thatjyou made your efcape, for I Ihould have burnt you alivetoad you ft aid.PART IV.A ycuing Curate, with more pertnefs than wit or leat n-J. JL ing, being alked in company, how he came to takeit into his head to enter into the miniftry of the church ?Becaufe, (aid he, the Lord hath need of ine. That maybe, replied George, who was prefent, for I have oftenread that the Lord had cnee need of an afs.After this, George being fent with the Britifti ambaf-fador into Italy, by the way of Paris; as they were view¬ing the beautiful liatues and large buildings of that fpa-cious city, the King and many of his nobles in company.22 THE WITTY EXPLOITSas they were walking thro’ the King’s garden among tfimages of the faints, they came to the image of the VirgjMary, who flood in a melancholy poflure with the bain her arms; one of the noblemen fays to the Britifh anbaffador, Don’t you think but (lie looks as (he were angrO yes, fays George, She is angry when fhe fees Engliflmen and Frenchmen in friendfhip and unity one withnother. No, no, faid the French King, She loves nothinis her delight. Then George gets in below the flatuand looks up; ‘ O fays George, I know what is the ma‘ ter now, fome body has driven a great nail in her arft‘ I fee the head of it flicking out, it would vex any livic‘ he’s a piece of wood.’ At this the King was greathe had reproached her. Then George cries out, ‘ O mall* it pleafe your Majefly to omit it at this time, I dare ncil‘ look her in the face, ihe frowns on me with fuch an angrrl* countenance, this dutiful command of yours muil be deli4 layed until I return from Italy, and then I fhall fulfil yonji4 demand, in paying all dutiful refpefl and worfhip unt il4 her, according to what fhe is-’ So here the ambafladoHflood bound for George, that he wonld perform this piecjlof worfhip at his return, according to the King’s pleafureaNow, during their flay in Italy, they chanced to be La nobleman’s houfe where they kept but few fervants, becaufc of a fpirit that haunted the houfe for the fpace O'two hundred y ears before that time, fo that no fervancould work any kind of labour in or about the houfe foit, except cooks; for what they vulgarly called a Brownieit did all itfelf, and would fuffer no fellow-labourer to worlalong with it. On the next morning, George got u}pretty early, called for water to wafli himfelf; then diredlly comes the Brownie, with a bafon of water in the on<hand, and a dean cloth in the other. George pcrceivinfhim have fuch a pale ghoftly countenance, and not to btan earthly creature, faid, Of what nation art thou ? ftwhich it anfwered in Gallic, or Earle, A countryman oiyours, Sir. The ambaffador fmiled, and joked Georgebetter than the reconciliation of enemies: Peace and unuenraged againtt George, for calling liar a piece of wood]and nothing would fatisfy the King unlefs that Geordwould fall down and worfhip the Virgin Mary, and cravjmercy of her for the blafphemous reproaches wherewitjOF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 23llling him. It was a devil, and how could it be a coun-lyman of his ? O fays George, I will (how you the con-jary of that, for the devil dare not ftay in our country,jeorge having wafned himfelf, it came again to take a-iay the bafon and water; then fays George, And howIng is it fince you left your own country? About twoindred and fifty years ago, replied it. Then Certainlyys he, Thou art a devil, and not an earthly creature.0 which it anfwered,I I am what I am, and a Chriftian too.J r Then I am what I am to conjure you, fays George.; He taking a handful of water, and throwing £ uponlie old withered face of it, repeated the form of the wordsf baptifm in Earfe ; faying, If thou be a Chriftian, thout old enough now to be baptized. No fooner had heone this, but it went off weeping and crying, O! let ne-er a rogue put trull in his countryman after me. Now,ys George, I told you the devil dare not ftay in myanntry, nor yet look a Scotfman in the face in his own.irhat! fays the Italian lord, Do you imagine that thisI the devil’s own country ? It appears fo, fays George,;ir he is the oldeft refidenter in it I know; but my lord,j:id he, and if it pleafe your grace, I think the clergy-lieu are very fcant in this country, when you have keptic devil fo long for a chaplain. The nobleman unto thisave no anlwer, but expreffed his forrow to be very' great3r the lofs of his Brownie.Now the ambaffador having done his bufinefs in Italy,icy returned homeward: and on their way the nmbaffador-gan to queftion George, How he thought to efcape Pa¬'s without committing idolatry ? No, no, fays George, Ir,er did w ulhip any image, nor never (hall; but I lhalljiake them worlhip the worft that is in my guts. No foon-r were they arrived at Paris, but George leaves the am-jaffador, and goes directly to the Virgin Mary, jumps in»ver the rail to the holy ground (as they termed it) where-n (he flood, where few durft go but priefts and friar*;bd there he loofed his breeches, and made fuch a groan-!>g eafing himfelf, that he was heard at a diftance by theiriefts and friars who were walking near by ; and theyftreeiving this heinous abomination, ran upon him like a24 THE WITTY EXPLOITSpack of hounds, and carried him before the cardinals afather confefTors, where he was allowed to fpeak for hift If, which he did as follows: ‘ May it pleafe your im‘ excellent worfhips to hear my reafons, before you ps‘ nounce my fentence to be put in execution again ft n* It was my fortune to be palling through this city a ft‘ months ago with the Britiih arnbaffador on our way '‘ Italy; and one day being walking in the King’s garde‘ in prefenee of the King and many of his nobles, v,-'‘ can bear witnefs to the truth of the fame ; I being‘ norant of your traditions and rites of religion, foolift‘ offended, reproaching the Virgin Mary to her face; at‘ ever fince fhe has plagued me with boundtjefs in n‘ belly, that I have voided nought but clean haugh;‘ now on my return, I went and implored her to open n‘ fundament, and fire has done fo; I being overjoyed wi‘ the miraculous healing, in getting a paffage in her pi«* fence, left it as a memorial of the miracle in that placiUWhen hearing this, they all with one cbnfent, lifted ttheir hands and bleffed the Virgin Mary, for the wondeful miracle fire had done; and ordered George to go abohis bufinefs, and declare unto all what was done unto hiby tire Holy Virgin, for the confirmation of their relightSo all the devoted Romans came to view his dung, atworfhip over it; the King himfelf kneeled down and wo(hipped, bowing his body over it in the prefence of matpeople; and alio caufed a holy-day to be obferved thrall his dominions, for the miraculous cure.Now George being a long time abfent from Britain, 1thought fit to go and vifit the King and his court in dtguife. He meeting with an old man driving two old horflloaded with coals to fell; George here makes a bargawith the old man, for the loan of his clothes, his ho."!;and coals, whip, and every thing for to complete hima real coal-driver; fo away he goes in this drefs, until 1came before the* King’s palace, where he began to crwith an audible voice, ‘ Buy coals, buy coa.ls; better bi‘ than borrow.’ Now the King being in company with fyoung chaplain, who was a foundling, that none knehis original; and had been foftcred and educated out tcharity by the King’s father, yet he was become as protas Lucifer, and as proud in his own conceit as the KirO F G'E O R G E~ B U C H A N A N. 25[itnfclf. -Now the King- knowing George’s voice, tho’ he"as in a coa'man’s dt^ Tsf defired the chaplain to arte theoairr.an why .he called fo ior.d, making fuch a terrible:oHe. I’he chaplain opened the window, and with g-eatirs called unto hhr., You, Sir, What do you cry fo far ?Vhy, fays George, I cig- for people to come and buyay coals, and give ms money for them: but what do youty for? What, Sir! fays the young pried, I cry for youo hold your peace. Then, fays George, come here then,nd cry for me, and fell my coals, and I will hold my'dice. Sell thy coals*, fays the pried; do you know tovliorri you fpcak? Yes, I do know, fays George, but you!o not. What grp you ? fays the pried, I am a mortal ando ate you, fays’George. What is your father’s name,uu'g you will not tell your own ? fays the pried. Youhay'go a fit that at my mother, fays George; for I waslot fuffieimt, when ihe got me, to know him. What!ays the pr'ed, do you not know your own father? I know'hy mother, and my' mother did know my father; fay’s(irorge, and that is fufficient, and more than you can faylerhaps. The pried thinkieg he was coming too near him,bought to ptrtTmn off with a fcriptnral quedion, byalk-pg him, if he knew who was Melchifedec’s father? In¬ked, mailer pried, fays George, Melchifcdec’s defeentras not Counted, neither is yours, then who can declare•our generation ? The pried, at this anfwer, would dundhe argument no longei, but clofed the window in greatiade, while the King, and all who knew the pried to be aoundling, were like to fplit their fides with laughing; fo>eorge went off .with his coals, and the pried became moreumble than he was formerly*, for he thought that everyody k*ew who he was, when the coalman knew fo well.I One night after this, an Engliih ’fquire who profeffedb ue better verfed in poetry than George, laid a wager|r;th another gentleman, live guineas againd one, thatpeorge would nftMr etre the firft words'he. would fay tojinr in the morning when newly awaked out of his deep;> the gertleman went, the * ht before, and told Georgehe dory, and bade him be on bis -nb for in the morn-ig they would certainly come, and that right early. Atddnight if ye will, fays George, I will order my ferv '.r.tJ let you in.C26 T H E W I T T Y E X P L O I T SSo the Englifh ’fq'iire fat up all night conferring wit.his friends, whether to put a high verfe to him, or meaiiimple words; thinking that George would be fitting h]all night meditating on an aufvver; fo they all agreed, themean and fimple words he would not bethinking on, anhave no anfwer provided for fuch. Then away they camin the morning very early, with feveral gentlemen in compony to hear the diverfion. George’s fervant opened thdoor according to his mailer’s orders. The fquire enteretthe room firft, and awaked George out of his lleep, thelaid,RJfe up you madman, and put on your clothes,[To which George anfweK J-3O thou hall loll thy wad man, for 1 am none of thofeThe Englilh ’fquire eoafeffed he was fairly beat an.would match with him no more. Then another gentleman would hold fi\e guineas, that he would give him .;word or line, that he e-uld not metre at the firll anfwerand to anfwer it direftly as foon as he had done fpeakingbut George ordered him firll to table the money, and the;to proceed, which he did in all hade, and laid as followsMy belly rumbled, and then I farted,[George, gripping to the money, anfwered,^A. fool and his money is foon parted.Then they all cried out, he was fairly beaten, and ths.what George had laid was really true; but he never vvoullay any more wagers concerning poetry. j 1Aiter this, George got a letter from a bifnep, toluithim that he was coming to vifit him and take dinner wit.him in his lodgings; George lent an anfwer, that he wouliwait upon his Lordlhip at the time appointed; but well dr-George know it was not for any love he had unto him, hwas coming to viiit him, but to Ipy fairlies; thereidte hthought h<Twould give him fomething to talk about,George fent his feivant to a Bodkleller’s fiiop, to buydozen of fmallpamphlets, a’qput a halfpenny a piece; meas, A Groat-worth’s of Wit, for a Penny; the Htlloryothe King and the Cobler, and fuch pieces as thefe; takinall his own books away, and putting the pamphlets in theiplace, which he prefented to the bilhop, when he allied foOF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 27iigliL of his library, \vf.at, fays the btfhop, Have youmore books but thete: No more, fays George, but m'-jible; jud no more. O! fays the biih .p, I wonder howon can either fpeak plain, or write a perfect fentence,ben you hax, no other books than thefc. O! fays George,0 you think that T sm a clergyman, to borrow other men’snir.ons to beautify my works; no, no, not I! all that lnte, I elite and meditate out of my own brain. Thisteck concerning borrowing,put thebifhop in a cold fweat,■t he concealed his palfion Then George called to3 fcrv^tlt dinner was ready yet; t© which he anfwcrcd,ome, Mailer, cpme, the pot is on the boil, get cut theeal-pock; then George came into the room where hisrvant was, and fet the bidsop at the one fide of the fire,d lat down on the other bimfelf; while his fervant madegreat bowl full of m.' r-brofe, and fet them between thehop and George; then George defired bis Lordfhin tor. ^ Veiling to what tliey were to receive: the bifhepV'r kn,owJvha* hc tr-ta,!t hY 3 ^effing, it net bein-ral for the Enghih to do fo: alked at George, What fts out George took up a great ram horn fpoon, andf ,tntf° !‘le b'dtop’s hand, faying, There it is, my Wd.nat lays ths bilhop, call you that a blelfing ? We cadt a Ipoon. O my Lord, fays George, it U the bed'uig you can aiic, if it does not come etroty.!i ?eiufaysrthe b'ni0P’ and how do you call that Raidedal. \\ hy, fays George, we call it Scots brofe. O! faid1 bilhop, I cannot eat it. O! fsys lie, the thing we can-eat we fup, my Lord: Sin-e you are in a Seotfman’s> you mull partake of a Seotfman’s victuals. Then,» the bilhop, I always thought the Scots had lived wellnow; I would not be a Scotfna , for the world. O 'oreorge, if a Scott.nan live twenty years, and get but.teen years meat, he cannot be badly off. What! notv off, ami want a year’s vi&uals faid the bifiicp! uponword oi honour, if I wanted one day’s victual ', I’d beto d,c tee next. Q ! fays- George, we drink watern we cannot do better, and that puts us in reihem-n ° rV'ert11’ f<;r a dl(}l of contentment is good elie =rl bv:d thc 1 w:il drink water too, if it be 'mcmor,y- Ay, do, faid George, and youmember me wnen you do to. Now, after dinner,C 223 T H E W I T T Y E X P L GITSthe Ijifhop took lu’s leave of George, and ikilred him uaday to corae and dine with him.PART V.TV.TEXT dav, George according to prolife, went <i.the biihop’s lodging; but no fooner did the bi)h<fee George, then he fakted him with thefe words,Your fervar.t mafter wife man,And yet you have no books ;How can one have knowledgeThat no man inftrudls ?[George anfwered,]Your fervant mailer bifhop.Your fftktatiou’s good:Your knowledge is in yoi.r library,Whillt others are in their hood.Now, after a fumptuous dinner, the bifhop took Or orinto his library, (hewing him a great quantity of boowhich George praifed very much, and among! thean old Hebrew Bible, which George taking up, afat the biihop what book it was; the bifhop looking a|very fincerely, faid he could not tell- Why then do 'keep a book you do not know the name of? It maythe book of black art. No, I do not think that, hudbifhop, but can you U-ll what it is? Yes, fays Gcohit is the Bible, the heft book for a bifhop I know, ifhad eyes to fee the infide of it: fo he deiired Georgeread a piece of it; but when he did, he could not nncftand it; therefore he defired him to explain it, ubfentence he did as follows, Ifa. ix. 16. * For the .ear« of this people canfe them to err, and they that are* of them are deflroyed.’ To which George added, Jis the blind leading the blind. So taking his leave ofbifhop, he parted with him, faying thefe words,Good night, hail mailer bifhop,- Of books you have great lore ;Yet cannot read the half of them,Then what ufe are they for ?Many of the clergymen in England defired great!be in company with George, becaufe of his comicaO F G E O P_ G E BUG FI A N A Ih 2 9|tty expreffio » ; f.) Gtorgc happened one night- to beiled into a company, where there were two bilhops, at0 ?. priei't vv-iu) wanted to be licenfcd by tfiem. One ofe b.'hops aflted George,-Why the people in Scotland1 not love Lifliope. Becauf;, fays George, They are liket beggars advanced to be rulers over barrow-men, itillIrufting them in things they know not themfelves, or-nng them to carry ilones to the btulders, which theyil not receive, and which they themfelves had neverwer to move ; the Scots having knowledge of this, hateU ie-j the bilhops have great lordlhips for their ignorance,d the poor labourer have little or nothing for his toil,ae of the bu'nops, looking at George with an angryuntena ice, anfw^ered, laying, You Scot mull be made abop yourfelf, and we bilbops made priells, and that willwe well for your turn. No, no, faid George, That will't do ; for if 1 be made a bifliop, I will have no brokenbops to ferve as priefts under me, for they are fuch badtillers, they’ll become the worll of :J1 fervants. At thke two bilnops left the room in a great paffion, leavingleorge and the young pried only by themfelves. No\v\w, fays George, 1 Ins proves the bilhops to be but hirc-gs and not true (hepberds, pointing to'the young pried,I hi fee they aie fled tor tlwar own lufetv, and here thevve-kA you a lamb, before the mouth of me a fox, and10 knows but I may worry you. Run, run too mader:ep, fays George; and if you have eyes guide them twoIW Ihephercls down dairs, and over d.tches, but I am■aid you will tumble all in a ditch together. This raifed:b an indignation in the bilbops’ breads, that they de-’rd no more of George’s company nor converfation.One time after this, George being in the country, aboutenty miles didant from London, and on his way home -rd a nnc gilded coach came up after him, which, Georgemg iniormed, belonged to the bilhop of Canterbury, ands going to London fol his lordfhip, George addreffesnkif to the coachman to have a palfage with him in theicu for London. So he bargained with the coachmantwo dollars to carry him to the Bell-Inn on London-dge; the one he gave him in hand as he entered thewh, and the other he was to give him as foon as ever heuld fee him come out at the coach-door; fo away the30 T H E W I T T Y EXPLOITSi.’oachroan drives for London in all ImlL, in which t ih!George wrote the following MOTTO.Here fits the bifnop of Canterbury,Who at the fchools difdain’d to tarry,, Far better flrill’d in games than preaching.And yet he lives by others teaching.Blind, leaders of the blind indeed,5Tis Hind and lame that chariots need.Six brutes with eyes this brute do carry*I mean the Bifnop of Canterbury.My feet being lame, I gave a dollar,To be drove in ftatc like you a fcholar.For which myfelf I do abhor,Shame caus’d me make another door.Thefe lines George battered upon the iniide of the coneand when he came within a mile of London, took a kniand cut a great hole in the bacldlde of the coach, \v be ||he came out; and to make his promife good to the coaclman, that he was to give him the other dollar as foon .wer he faw him come out at the coach door. The poucoachman drove on till he came to the forefaid Inn, vvhehe alighted; and opened the door to let out hi* palfenge'but feeing the coach empty, and a great hole in the badfide of it, he cried out, He believed he had had the devin the coach, and that lie had taken away the backiideit with him. The people of the Inn came all flocking 1bout to fee what was done; and then perceiving the linyon the iniide of the coach, which the bifliop came arread himfelf, they all concluded it to be done by Georgbut could make nothing of it; for the bifhop faid, to pitfue might well make it worfe, but no better.George was invited one day by a great lawyer to con;and fee's new building, which he had lately built ot thfree ftone and marble, he delired George to guefs whatwas buiit with. George anfwers, do you think that I <not know what it is built with? No, you do not, fays t!lawyer. Yes I do, fays George, It cannot Hand long, Ffmalice and hatred if. the mortar of it, and the ftones are t!heads of foclilh peoplb, polifhed over with the tongue offafs: What! fays the lawyer, Do you compare me to an a;O ! Sir, do net you remember, that an afs was made ;advocate, aud fpoke agaiall Balaam ? The lawyer to tlOF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 31r.-uild give nd anfvvev, but took goodnight of George.Three trercKant pedlars (as they proftffed to be) camerith a pack of goods to put a trick upon a widow woman,vho kept an lira upon the high way fide; after they hadhrunk very hearty, they defired the woman to lay up therack-{ecurch , and charged her ftri&ly before witnefffs, toleliver it to none of them, unkfs they came altogether fort again. And in about three weeks theteafter, two ofhem returned, and defired the woman to give them therack; telling her, Thai the other man was gone to fuch aair with another pack, where they were all to meet; andhat they wete fellow-travellers, conjunC^ in trade, andnow they had all a right to the pack alike: Whereupon,he poor f.mple yvomar, not dreading any further harm,rave them the pack. So, in a few days thereafter, thethcr man comes and demands the pack; the heneft wo-nan told him plainly, that the other two men had beenhere before, and had got it away; then he began to de-nonftrate to the woman what great danger (he was in, andforthwith raifed a procefs againft her by law, which coftthe poor woman a vaft fum of money to defend, as the pleacontinued more than two full years; and aAgreat courtbeing one day to fit upon the procefs to decide it, whichwould undoubtedly have been done in favour of the purfuer,the proof being fo clear, and f he woman herfelf not deny¬ing what the bargain was, when {he got the pack to keep., The poor woman being in great ftraits, her purfe be¬ing turned empty-, her attorney told her plainly, as hermoney was done, he could no longer defend her; the wo¬man once more pluckt up her heart, and went to LondonLo employ a new attorney to fpeak for her; but for wantnf gold, (he could get none to undertake it. George be¬ing in a houfc, where he heard the poor woman making amournful complaint to one of her attornies, who gave her|no comfort nor f itbfadticn; for when file told him (lie hadao money to fpend, or give in defence of it, the attorneywent away, and would hear no more of the woman's grie¬vous complaint, which made George laugh very heartily,ivhile the poor widow fat weeping like one in diftraciion.’oor woman, fays George, You need not thinkthat manill fpeak a word for you, or any elfe, unlefs you hadrought him a purfe of gold toloofe h’: tongue; but as I■eV32 T II E W I T T Y EXPLOITShave got a fcheme of t^e matter, you may .go home, anhave patience initil the time come, and then my life fcyour*, poor woman, that 1 fhr.I] fend you an attorney, thawill do yout bufmefs for nothing,He gave the poor woman more tourr.ge than any fhehatfpoke with in London j for every one told her that all tb.'attornies in the world could not freer her. So according!;at the day appointed, George drtlTed himfelf like an attoiny, with his gown, and every thing as he had really been fo;The court being fenced, and the procefs read over, cxpeaces and value of the pack, having amounted to abortfeven hundred pounds, was ordered to be put in a decreeagainfl the poor widow, which every one was bemoaningbut could give her no relief. Now George kept himfei,blent, Irearing them all with great patience, until the vcnnick of time, he thought proper to'addrefs himfelf to tinjudges as followeth, ‘ My lords judges, and gentlemen othis honourable court and company*; I have come frohLondon gratis, out of pure pity to fpeak a word or twoin favour of this poor woman, who hath exhaufled all hetmeans in defence of a falfe accufation charged againfl; her;and now when her money is gone, hei fpeakers are dumb,and I faw none to plead the caufc of this poorwidow. Nowj:when fer.tence is upon the tapis to be ptouounced againllher, I earncftly delire this court to modify and drop theexpences altogether. It is enough when the poor womanhas the pack to pay; for you all know the woman was noway enriched by it, when the other two men got it away.*Then the purfuer’s attorney made ahfwer, as follows I'‘ Sir, I would have thought that you who have come front!London, and profefs to be a do ft or of law, fhoukEknow’better things; know ye sot, that he who gains the plea,gains his expeaces as well as the fum, or be what it will?*Yes, it mutt and fhall be lo, faid the judges. Then faidGeorge, ‘ This is all I want;’ which fet the whole courta-laughing, thinking he was a fool, and become an adver-fary ter the poor woman : ‘ Give over fport, gentlemen,’fays George, ‘ I have not done get.’‘ My lords judges,'’ you will hear me in this, if the poorwoman made a bargain with this merchant and other twowho were with him, tor to keep that pack fafely, and todeliver it to none of them, until they were all three pre-OF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 35t; now, let that man who is here at the time, go andk the other two, and they /hall have their pack, for {he3 the pack fafe enough ; but fhe will keep by her f.rft_ain. So I refer to you judges and gentlemen, if thisor woman be not in the right.’ This made the judgesik one to another: and the whoUcourt with one voice,dared the woman to be in the nidg, and ordered theirfuer to go and feck his two companions: ‘ No, no,vs George, 4 The poor woman muft have her expences,furety for it.’ Then the judges caufed the purfuer to: arrefted at the bar, until the woman got fatisfaflionrail her trouble and expenccs. So George returned toilondon unknown but for an advocate, whofe fame wasjlread over all England; which caufed many who had law-tits, to fearch through .London for him, but none couldrev find him who gained the widow's law plea.George being one day in the country, and coming thro’village, there came a great mallnf-dog, and gripped himy the leg,until the blood followed bis long teeth. George,ith one ftroke of his cane, came over his eyes, until :nJ11 down and died upon the fpot: It is well for thee, faysSeorgc, that I kill’d thee, before thou waft brought to[uftice, for thou hadft certainly been banged for what thouaft done, and thy mafter feverely fined for keeping thee,lie owner of the dog bearing George fay fo, went offIvithout fpeaking a word to George, for fear it had been fo.A country gentleman came one time, and enquired ateorge, what he thought was the reafon lie loft every lawhit or plea he fet his face to, tho’ never fa juft a claim,he law went fiill againft him, George afittd him. Who heEmployed? He told him, That he was one of the beft andb’eft atton.ies in England. Yes, fays George, I believeic may be fo: But when you go to iaw again, if you have|a mind to win it, when you give your own attorney oneguinea, give your adverfary’s two ; for thefc attornies aremuch after the nature of an afs, they wifi not fpcak right,if you do not throw a multitude of angels before them ;(meaning pieces of Engilfh money, called angels by name.)The gentleman returned in a few weeks thereafter, andheartily thanked George for his good advice, for he wasnot ;fraid now, but lie could gain any plea he took inhand, whether it was juft or not.34 THE WITTY EXPLOITSTwo drunken fellows one day fell a beating one anotbsjon the flreets of London, wldc’i caufed a great croud Ipeople throng together to fee what it was ; a taylor, l||ing'atwork up in a garret, about three or four ftor|high, and he hearing the noiie.in the ftreet, looked ovthe window but could not well fee them; he began |ftretch himfelf, making a long neck, until he feii dov^ov.t of the window, and alighted upon an old man w!was walking on the ftreet; the poor taylor was morefraid than hurt, but the man he fell on died ’'directly. H"fon caufed the taylor to be apprehended, and tried for tb|murder of his father; the jury could not bring it inwilful murder, neither could they altogether free the ta)lor; the jury gave it over to the judges, arid the judges tthe King. The King afked George’s advice in this barmatter. Why, fays George, I will give you my opinioin a minute; you mud caufe the taylor to Hand on thftreet, in the place where the old gentleman was when hwas killed by the taylor, and then let the old gentleman’fun, the taylor’s adverfary, go up to the window fronwhence the taylor fell, and jump down, and fo kill tilltaylor as he did his father: for I can make no more of ifYou fee it was a great mercy for the taylor he had the oldgentleman below him, elfe he had been killed on the fpotand that it was the old gentleman’s lot or misfortune todie there. The taylor’s adverfary hearing this feruence-pall, he would not venture to jump over the window, ancfo the taylor got clear off.P A R T VI.GEORGE, being one night in company with fomeEnglifh noblemen in prt fence of the King, they he?;gan to demondrate fuch a fine place as England was,, bothfor beautiful buildings and fruitful fields; one gentleiniutfaid, He knew a place in England, tho’ they fhould cropthe grafs even with the ground at night, and lay down acrown on it before a hundred witneffee, that againd to>morrow, you would not know where to find it. That mayfeem very drange to fome, fays George, but it is no my!-tery to me; knowing there would be enough of them whsfavv the crown piece laid down, ready enough to come andtake it up before to-mo.tow. But, fays George, I knowOF GEORGE BlTCH AN AN. 35■lace in the weft; of Scotland, where, if you will tetherorfe at night, againft the next morning you will nothim. What a pox will take him away, fays the Eng-1 ? Only fuch people, fays George, as will takeiy your crown-piece. O fays the Engliih nobleman,u know what I mean.Then fays George, You talk much of towns you haveEngland, I know three towns in poor Scotland, for>perties you have none fuch. Pray, fays the gentleman,hat are thefe properties ? Why, fays George, 1 knowtown where there are a hundred bone-bridges in 1^; a-ther town, where there are fifty draw-bridges in it; auo-r town, Yho’ a man ccmraits murder, treafon, or owes:r fo much money, if he runs to that town, and gets inow a ftair, no law nor juftice can harm him.- The no-man offered immediately to ftake a hundred pounds,it there were no fuch towns in Eurooe, beiides in Scot-d. They deiired George to tell him the names of thefems, for they would find them out, and know whetherwas a liar or not. So he told their names, and two-menrc fent to Scotland to fee them; the firftwasDuddingfton-r Edinburgh, tfhere they came and alkcd for the bonc-dges there; the people {hewed them fteps almoft betweenry door, of the ikuils of ftieep-heads, which they ufed asping-ftones. The lecond was a little country village,ween Stirling and Perth, called Auchterarder, wheren e is a large ftrar.d which runs thro’ the middle of then ; and almoft at every door there is a long ftock, orne, laid over the ftrand, whereupon they pafs to theirpofite neighbours, and when a flood comes, they lift theiroden bridges in cafe they (hould be take n away, and thefe■y call their draw-bridges. The third was a village nearriing called Cambulbarrcn, which they pa ft thro’ fromi end to the other, but there was not a ftair in it all; foS>’ returned to England, and told what manner of bone1 draw-bridges they were, and how there was not a ftairall that place, therefore no man could run below it.As George was on the.road travelling to .London, theather being very rainy and cold, he alighted at an inn torefh and warm hirnfelf, hut the fire-fide being fo fur-indtd with people he could fear re fee the fire; Georgeling this to be the cafe, calls to the heftier, and orders3« TH E' \V 1T TY EX P L O 11 S/&c.-}nm to give his hovf*7 at the door, half a peek bi oyilYou mean oata, Sir: No, ho,-fays George, it is oyiliand bafe is that horjfe that m'H not eat oyfters. The peoat the fire hearing 1 his, all Hailed up and ran to the dto fed the lorfe eating oyfters; the moment they left t:feats, George took the opportunity to plant himfelf bei• the fire, with a table and doth befide him. In a little fcame back again one by one, faying. This horfe wifino oyfters: Well, well, fayi George, he is either too,,or too fancy; fo you may bring them in. and Twillthem myftif.Now George being old, and highly advanced in yeifinding his natural ftrength, and Hate of health daily'paying, he petitioned King James to let him returnScotland, for to vifit his friends, and the land of his nyitt; which he rnoft willingly granted; (not thinkingdcligu \vas never to return, )*for George had a greatfign to refign his foul and breath in that place of :world where he received them; and that his body-ibones might be laid among, his ancdlors, which :»counted a great honour in former ages.So accordingly George came to the parifti of Kills?m the weft of Scotland, where he vifited ali bis friends.-relat'onsbefore his death, during which time the King jfeveral no Sages for him to return, in all the hafte he cotbut Ire abfoluttly refufed, telling him, That he would!ver fee him again ; which grieved the King very muejj-hear bim-c;:prtis himfelf in that* manner. After this!King (ent him a letter, threatening him very fharply, ifjdid- not appear in Louden in the fpi.ee of twenty,daysdwovdd fend his Lyor.-heralcsv, ith a party, u*ho would b|Mbint to L -ndon, whether he would or not. Unto whi}as an anfwcr, GeorgeTer.r him a famous letter of adnwtion, both auent tke-govenment of hfs kingdoms, and,well-being of his ibu), which ■caufed the K’ng weep vbitterly w hen he.'read it over, with thr following verfMy honour’d LeigC and Sovereign King,Of your bonding great, I dread nothing :On your feud and favour I’Jl fairly venture ; tE’er that,day I’ll pi:, where few Kings will entFI NIS.<- *