Correct AccountLife, Confession,ANDEXECUTIONOF " ,Villm. Burke,.Who was Executed at Edinburgh on!Fednesday, 28 Jan. 1829.Burke and Hare.PAISLEY *.■J riated and Sold by G. Caldwell', No. 2, New Street.life ofWILLIAM BURKE.William 'Burke, was aged 32 or 33 years, was boni* the parish of Orrey, county of Tyrone. His parents wen«f the order of peasantry, but respectable' ra their stationHe was educated in the Catholic faith ; but, as a worthy Iriibinan, of the same religion, observed to ns—“ Since htcame to Scotland his person was never known tQ darken ta chapel door.” He received good education for one of hitank, this fact is proved, in a certain degree, by the circumManee of Burke having, at one period, made considerabl;sums of money in the West Port, writing begging petitionsBurke was originally brought up a weaver, in the town oStraban, but, tiring of that sedentary employment, he becam>a baker. The board being too oppressive for his head, htdetected the baking fcrade, and entered himself a private itthe Donegal Militia, in which his brother Constantine wata non-commissioned officer, and in which he himself serve;for five years. During most of that lime he wa» a servanto one of the officers, and acquitted himself with such propriety as gained the respect of all who knew him. He marrind, during the same time, a woman is Ballinha, countvOf Mayo, by whom he had two children, who are now deadbut hit wife still survives, and resides in Ireland. Wheibis regiment was disbanded, he sserted his wife and children, and eame to Scotland, and pickrd up from the street!;«f Glasgow the woman McDongal, with whom he has sinctcohabited. Her place of nativity is the Reddings in Stirlingabire; sho itill speaks the dialect of that place.; and wbei4ber coancxien with Burke commenced, she was a commonprostitute, though a married woman, and her husband it1■till living. She has always been and still is most eloquentin ber praises of the kindly disposition of her paramour.Socm rftar his arrival in Scotland, be engaged as a labour■r on the Union Canal, when he came to reside in Edinhrowhich was about eleven years ago; but he has been occasion13y absent from that city for long periods. He pretendedbe a cobbler, but how he learnt the trade, or whether he|@r learnt it, is known to no one. When he was Hpea thenal, he engaged in the trade of resnrrectieuist, and prao-Jed it more er lees nntil ha entered upon the more horriblei e of murder, the one, from its brutalizing tendencies, beiegtting preparative for the other. PreYiously to 18 me/ithshe lived at Peebles, and went daily to road-making in; neighbourhood of Inverlcithen. He thea came to resideHare’s house, and it was there, we believe, he was firsttiated by him in the mysteries of kidnapping and raardor,ter having a dispute with i/are, Burke went to reside inhouse of a relation of the name of Brogan, the father ofwitness of that name. Brogan being unable to pay thet, Burke became tenant of the house; and it was there,t the crime was committed for which he diad.THFj confession.He was asked how long he had been engaged in thisjinlerous traffic? To which he answeaed, “ Prem Chrisl-> 1827, till the murder of the woman Doeherty, in Qct-r last.” “ How many persons have you muxiered or bee*corned in during that time ? Were they thirty in all ?” .ot so many; not so many; 1 assure yeu.” “ How many ?”answered the question, but the answer was, for a reason■fiictly satisfactory, not communicated to ns, and reservedli a different quarter.I‘Had yeu any accomplices ?'’—“None but Hai'e. W.sirays took caie, when we were going to comaiit murder,t it no on. else should be pres««ot—ihat no one could sweari saw the deed done. The women might suspect what weUr* about, but we always put them out of the way when* were going to do it. They never saw us corsnit any *fi murders. One of the murders was done in Broggan’s4use, while he was out; but before he returned, the thingSs finished* and the body put into a hex. Brogga* evident-disuspected something, for he appeared much agitated, andmtreated us to ■ take away the box,’ wfcicli we accordingly;1; butte was not in any way concerned in k.”r <i v™, t ..o „r—-i- wYou lave already told me that y«u were engaged in thess4atrocities from Christmas 1827 till the end of October 1828 ;• were yea associated with Hare during all that time ?” “ Yes;wo began with se’.ling to Dr. the body of a woman whohad died a natural death in Hare’s house. We got £10. forit. After this we began the murders, and’all the rest of thebotiios we sold t* him were murdered.”“ In what place were these murders generally committed ?”“ They were mostly commited in Hare’s house, which was)▼ery cqurenient for the purpose, as it consisted of a rooin'tand a kitchen; Daft Jamie was murdered there; the storytohl of this murder is incorrect; Hare began the strugglewith him, and they fell and rolled together on the floor; thenI went to Hare’s assistance, and we at length finished him,thongh with much difficulty: I commiflted one murder-inthe country by myself; it was in last harvest; all the restwere done in conjunction with Hare.”“ By what mean were these fearful atrocities perpetrated ?”—“By suffocation. We made the persons drunk, and thensuffocated them by holding the nostrils and mouth, and get¬ting on the body; sometimes I held the mouth and nose,,while Hare knelt upon the body; and sometimes Hare heldthe mouth and nose, while I placed myself upon the body;Hare has peijured himself by what he said at the trial aboutthe murder of Docherty; he did not sit by while I did it, ashe says ; he was on the body assisting me with all his might,while I held the nostrils and mouth with one hand, andchoked her *«der the throat with the other; we sometimei; ■«sed a pillow, but did not in this case.”“ Now, Burke, answer me this question. Were you tu¬tored or instructed, or did you receive hints from any one asto the mode of committing murder ?”—“ No, except fromHare. We often spoke about it, add we agreed that suffo¬cation was the best way. Hare said so, and I agreed withhim. ■ We generally did it by suffocation.”—Our informantomitted to interrogate him about the surgical instrumentsstated to have been found in h!s house; but this omissionwill be supplied.“ Did you receive apy encouragement to commit or perse¬vere in committing these atrocities?”—“ Yes; we were fretfiuently told by Paterson that he would take as many bodies;5e foultl get for him. When wn got one, he always toldo get more. There was commonly another person withof the narfie of Falconer. They generally pressed us tomore bodies.’'To whom were the bodies so tfmrdered sold?”—To Dr.We took the bodies to his rooms in andh went to his house to reei • e the money for them. Some-ip he paid us himself; sometimes we were paid by his p.s-innts. No questions were ever asked as to the mode intUi wa had corpe by the bodies. We had nothing ta do,|to leave a body at the rooms, and to go and get tiie mo-Did you ever, upon any occasion, eel! a body or bodies>y other Lecturer here ! ’ “ Never. We knew no other.”'You have been a resurrectionist (as it is called), I under-|d ?” “ No, neither Hare nor myself ever got a body outhurchyard. All we sold were murdered, save the 1st one,:h was the woman who died in Hare’s house. We beganu it: our crimes then commenced. The victims we se-:d were generally ylderjy persons. They could he morely disposed of than persons in'the vigour of youth.”Ml® EXECUTION.his morning, between 8 and 9 o’clock, William Burke,idiuburgh Murderer, paid the forfeit of his many crimesle head of Libber!art’s Wynd, Edinburgh, /.stheper-qi approached which was to terminate his career, the ex-3|naent, which has Teen so deep in that place, was greatly*sased; and great fear was entertained that some tumul-itfis exhibition of. public feeling would.be made at the ex-fotien. Fortunately, however, no such occurrence tookAte. For some days past, ticketsTad been exhibited on3i windows in the neighbourhood, intimating them to henfor the occassio’n at from five shillings to 1 and 2 guineas,ibke was removed from the Cal ton Jail yesterday morning54 o’clock with the strictest privacy', and was lodged ini lock-up-house behind the Parliament Square, adc! in thea r neighbourhood of tie place of execution. Here he wastted by the Catholic Priests, and received from them ev-U attention. The measures adopted by the authorities did6inot afford any opportunities to those in attendance on hito inquire any information nor did he seem inclined to acommunicative. He exclaimed at one time, “Othatt.,hour was come, which is to separate me from the worldlHe ascribed the commencement ef his enormities to a hiilvesting, which, it is presumed^ was meant the formation}his intimacy with McDougal. On being asked on the suijeet of Daft Jamie’s murder, he said that Hare’s wife deco;ed him into Hare’s house, and that Hare and his wife mi.dered him. During the night he slept soundly for sevei.hours. In the afternoon, measures were begun to rail ofiportion of the street for the erection of the scaffold, & crow*,attended the placd all the time of its erection; and abo .midnight, and in the midst of a lieavy rain, the crowd ga'ithree cheers, when the cross beam to which the rope Is efixed was placed in its position. By half-past six the who-of the Lawn Market and High Street, as far as a view coulbe obtained, were crowded, as well as the windows and to]of the adjoining houses; and the number was generally estmated at about 35,000. At alxmt half-past seven o’cloclthe crowd began to exhibit symptoms of impatience, angave a series of loud and long continued shouts, which therepeated at intervals till Burke was brought out. About .1o’clock this morning he complained to Mr. Christie, thkeeper of the lock-up. of the weight of his fetters, and re iquested that they migfit be taken off. This was instant! igranted, and on holding up his leg to let them off, he exiclaimed, “ So may al! my earthly fetters fall.” He was at|tended afterwards in his cell by his instructors, and at 7 h4was ushered into the* keeper's room, where the magistratejand others were in waiting. To this room no reporters savdone belonging to an Edinburgh paper was admitted; tin!Magistrates having positively re&ised their permission.Messrs. Reid and Stewart, the priests, administered sue®consolations as his religion afforded, and afterwards Burk4thanked them and the Governor ef the Jail for their kindnesito 1dm, and particularly thanked Mr. Christie, the keej ejof the lock-up, for his attentions. He was them pinione®by the executioner, and shortly after he was about to retirJto another apartment, but he was stopped by the executioni7on uliis Burke coolly remarked, “ It is not year time” After a short absence, he returned, and after some| icr devotional exercises, was offered by one of the Mag-tj.tes a glase of wine. This he accepted, and on drinkingj], “ Farewell t<* all my Friends.” Precisely at 8 o'clockflprocession began to move-up Liherton’s Wynd from thek-uj», the City officers being first with their Locnaberi, and the Magistrates following. Burke was next, amisupported by the two priests, and several other's ot thelorities followed. He was dressed in a new suit of blackles which had been presented to him by the magistrates,wore a white neckcloth. When the crowd discoveredtajovenaent, consequent on the approach of the culprit,raised a loud cry of exultation, .nixed with groans andng, from every part of the dense mass of spectators,sc, who had walked at first with rather a firm but some*t undetermined step, seemed to understand the caus«*»fshouting—his step became embarrassed and faltering,his countenance displayed strong agitation. He shut:yes before he reached the head of the Wynd, and didopen tham till ©n the scaffold: he seemed to be afvaidbe reception he might meet with from the crewd, bulvas assisted up the stairs to the platform. On his ap-auce there the shouting was renewed ; and Burke, turn-his face towards the crowd, gave them a look ©f suchnful defiance, that the groans were redoubled : he thent down with the priests, and the Rev. Mr. Marshall of-d up a short but fervent and appropriate prayer. Evenng this period of the public devotions, the crowd can¬ed to shout and groan, and persisted ia so doing in des-of the exertions of the Magistrates and others to keepn quiet. After Mr. Marshall finished, a few minuteso spent in conversation with the priest, during whichi»ke seemed to be sufforing dreadfully, but resumed a por¬'d of his firmness on receiving th© handkerchief Sf mount*1 the drop. On stepping up, he gave a singular look up-i ds to the hook to which the rope was affixed. The ex¬doner then proceeded to adjust the rope, upon whichriiment cries were raised from everr Quarter, of “ BurtroI8ing; he repeated, as if unconsciously, the words whispemto him by the priest; his face assumed a colour as if he liaibeen already suffocated, and he allowed his cap to be puiover his face without a motion. At each step of the execu¬tioner's duty, the crowd raised another shout; and wherthe cap was drawn over the face, a cry was raised to keejit off altogether. The authorities then left the scaffold, aijiin half a minute the signal was given, and the drop fell//ere the shouting, groaning, and hissing, became lotujjthan ever. The rope seemed to be too short, as it was eljideat he had but a very short fall, and the struggles wlncl,followed, shewed that he suffered much. //is hands werextended convulsively, and once or twice be was observeto breathe deeply. The cry for punishment on /fare nonbecame general. “ Bring out //are“ Now for //aredand one continued cry was kept up many minutes. Thi)was kept up at intervals till he was cut down at nine o’clocl!At this moment the crowd called for three cheers “ for hiinanity,” and one person from a window cried out “ or*cheer more,” and was answered by the whole crowd. TEcrowd at this time seemed greatly agitated, and fear we'entertained for the public peace, but they were fortunate!unfounded. The strong body of police, indeed, which w-present, under the charge of Captain Stewart, would haTquelled any riotous movement, aud the military were undarms in case of necessity. When the body was lowered iito the cofSn, previous to its being taken to the lock-up-hou-great anxiety was displayed by a numbers of persons to pusess a piece of the flope: and when disappointed in th?they were content to secure a few of the shavings of whiithe coffin was stuffed. It should have been told, that it Wthe intention of the authorities to have had a psalm sung <the seaffold, and a precentor was there for that purposbut the idea was prudently relinquished, on observing t!state of feeling among the crowd, and the service was redered as short as was consistent with the occasion.FINISCaldwell, Printer, Paisley