THE■LIFEANDPROPHECIES4 I>os?*s»iA•/fat' iTHELIFE AND PROPHECIESOFALEXANDER PEDEN.That most excellent minister of the gospel,and faithful defender of the Presbyterian Re¬ligion, Mr Alexander Peden, was born in theparish of Sorn, near Ayr. After his course atthe College, he was sometime schoolmaster,precentor, and session-clerk to Mr John Guth¬rie, minister of the gospel at Tarbolton. Whenhe was about to enter on the ministry, a youngwoman fell with child, in adultery, to a servantin the house where she stayed ; when she foundherself to be so, she told the father thereof, whosaid, I'll run for it and go to Ireland, father itupon Mr Peden, he has more to help you tobring it up (he having a small heritage) thanI have. The same day that he was to get hislicence, she came in before the Presbytery andsaid, I hear that you are to licence Mr Peden,to be a minister ; but do it not, for I am withchild to him. He being without at the time.,4was called in by the moderator; and beingquestioned about it, he said, I am utterly sur¬prised, 1 cannot speak ; but let none entertainan ill thought of me, for I am utterly free of it,and God will vindicate me in his own time andway. He went home and walked at a water¬side upwards of 24 hours, and would neithereat nor drink, but said, I have got what I wasseeking, and I will be vindicated, and that poorunhappy lass will pay dear for it in her life, andwill make a dismal end ; and for this surfeit ofgrief that she hath given me. there shall neverone ©f her sex come into my bosom ; and, ac¬cordingly he never married. There are variousreports of the way that he was vindicated ; somesay, the time she was in child-birth, Mr Guthriecharged her to give account who was the fatherof that child, and discharged the women to behelpful to her, until she did it: some say, thatshe confessed ; others, that she remained obstin¬ate- Some of the people when I made enquiryabout it in that country-side, affirmed, that thePresbytery had been at all pains about it, andcould get no satisfaction, they appointed MrGuthrie to give a full relation of the whole be¬fore the congregation, which he did ; and thesame day the father of the child being present,when he heard Mr Guthrie begin to speak, hestood up, and desired him to halt, and said, I5am the father of that child, and I desired her tofather it on Mr Peden, which has been a greattrouble of conscience to me; and I could not getrest till I came home to declare it. However, itis certain, that after she was married, everythingwent cross to them ; and they went from placeto place, and were reduced to groat poverty.At last she came to that same spot of groundwhere he stayed upwards of t4 hours, and madeaway with herself!2. After this he was three years settled min¬ister at New Glenluce in Galloway: and whenhe was obliged, by the violence and tyranny ofthat time, to leave that parish, he lectured uponActs xx. 17, to the end, and preached upon the3lst verse in the forenoon, ‘ Therefore watch,and remember that for the space of three years1 ceased not to warn every one, night and day,with tears’: Asserting that he had declared thewhole counsel of God, and had kept nothingback, and protested that he was free of the bloodof all souls. And, in the afternoon he preachedon the 32d verse, ‘ And now, brethren, I com¬mend you to God, and to the word of his gracewhich is able to build you up, and to give youan inheritance among all them that are scanti-fied.’ Which was a weeping day in that kirk ;the greatest part could not contain themselves :He many times requested them to be silent;but they sorrowed most oi' all when he toldlithem that they should never see his face in that!pulpit again. He continued until night ; andwhen he closed the pulpit-door he knocked hardupon it three times with his Bible, saying, threetimes over, I arrest in my Master’s name, thatnever one enter there, but such as come in bythe door, as I did. Accordingly, neither cur¬ate nor indulged minister ever entered that pul¬pit, until after the revolution, that a Presby¬terian minister opened it.3. After this he joined with that honest andzealous handful in the year 1666, that wasbroken at Pentland-hills, and came the lengthof Clyde with them, where he had a melancholyview of their end, and parted with them there.James Cubison, of Paluchbeaties, my informer,to whom he told this, he said to him, ‘ Sir, you!did well that parted with them, seeing you was;persuaded they would fall and flee before theenemy. Glory, glory to God, that he sent menot to hell immediately ! for I should havestayed with them though I should have beencut all in pieces.4. That night the Lord’s people fell, and fledbefore the enemy at Pentland-hills, he was in afriend’s house in Carrick, sixty miles fromEdinburgh; his landlord seeing him mightilytroubled, enquired how it was with him ; he saidV7‘ To-morrow I will speak with you/ and desiredsome candle. That night he went to bed. Thenext morning calling early to his landlord, said,‘ I have sad sews to tell you, our friends thatwere together in arms, appearing for Christ’sinterest, are now broken, killed, taken, and fledevery man.’ The truth of which was fully veri¬fied in about 48 hours thereafter,5. After this, in June, 1673, he was takeu byMajor Cockburn, in the house of Hugh Fer¬guson of Kncckdow, in Garrick, who constrain¬ed him to tarry all night. Mr Peden told himthat it would be a dear night to them both.Accordingly they were both crrried prisonersto Edinburgh. Hugh Ferguson was fined ina thousand merks, for resetting, harbouring,and conversing with him. The Council orderedfifty pound* sterling to be paid to the Majorout of the fines, and ordained him to dividetwenty-five pounds sterling among the partythat apprehended him. Some time after ex¬amination he was sent prisoner to the Bass,where, and at Edinburgh, he remained untilDecember 1668, that he was banished.6. While prisoner in the Bass, one Sabbathmorning being about the public worship of God,a young lass, about 13 or 14 years of age, cameto the chamber-door mocking with loud laugh¬ter • He said, ‘Poor thing, thou mocks andlaughs at the worship of God, but ere long Godshall write such a sudden, surprising judgmenton thee, that shall stay thy laughing, and thoushall not escape it.’ Very shortly after, she waswalking upon the rock, and there came a blastof wind and sweeped her into the sea, where sheperished. While prisoner there, one day walk¬ing upon the rock, some soldiers passing byhim, one of them said, Devil take him. Hesaid, Fy, fy, poor man, thou knowest not whatthou art saying ; but thou wilt repent that.—At which word the soldier stood astonished, andwent to the guard distracted, crying aloud forMr Peden, saying, the devil would immediatelytake him away. He came to him again, andfound him in his right mind under deep con¬victions of great guilt. The guard being tochange, they desired him to go to his arms; herefused and said, he would lift no arms againstJesus Christ his cause, and persecute his people,he had done that too long. The governorthreatened him with death, to-morrow abouttefl of the clock; he confidently said, threetimes, though he should tear all his body inpieces, he should never lift arms that way.About three days after, the governor put himout of the garrison, setting him ashore. Hehaving a wife and children, took a house inEast Lothian, where he became a singular9Christian. Mr Peden told these astonishingpassages to the foresaid John Cubison andothers, who informed me.7. When brought from the Ba?s -to Edin¬burgh, and sentence of banishment passed uponhim, in Dec. 1878, and sixty more fellow-pris¬oners, for the same cause, to go to America,never to be seen in Scotland again, under thepain of death ; after this sentence was past, heseveral times said, that the ship was not yetbuilt yet that should take him and these prison¬ers to Virginia; or any other of the Englishplantations in America. One James Kay, asolid and grave Christian, being one of themwho lives in or about the Water of Leith, toldme, that Mr Peden said to him, ‘ James, whenyour wife comes in let me see her which hedid. After some discourse, he called for adrink, and when he had sought a blessing, hesaid, ‘ Good Lord, let not James Kay’s Wifemiss her husband, till thou return him to herin peace and safety ; which we are sure will besooner than either he or she is looking for.’Accordingly the same day month that he partedwith her at Leith, he cams home to her at theWater of Leith.8. When they were on shipboard at theWater of Leith, there was a report that theenemies were to send down thumbkins to keep10them irom rebelling; at the report of this, theywere discouraged : Mr Peden came above thedeck and said, ‘ Why are ye discouraged ? Youneed not fear, there will neither thumbkins norbootkins come here; lift up your hearts andheads, for the day of your redemption drawethnear ; if we were once at London, we will beset at liberty.’ And when sailing on the voyage,praying publicly, he said, ‘ Lord, such is theenemies’ hatred at thee and malice at us for thysake, that they will not let us stay in the landof Scotland, to serve thee, though some of ushave nothing but the canopy of thy heavenabove us, and the earth to tread upon ; but,Lord, we bless thy name, that will cut short ourvoyage, and frustrate thy enemies of their wickeddesign, that they will not get us where they in¬tend ; and some of us will go richer home thanwe came from home.’ James Pride, who livedin Fife, an honest man, being one of them, hesaid many times, he could assert the truth ofthis, for he came safely home; and beside otherthings, he bought two cows : and before that henever had one. I had these accounts both fromthe foresaid James Kay and Robert Punton, aknown public man, worthy of all credit, whowas also under the same sentence, and lived inthe parish of Dalmeny, near Queensferry.'i '1119. When they arrived in London, the skipper who received them at Leith, was to carrythem no further. The skipper who was to re¬ceive them there, and carry them to Virginia,came to see them, they being represented to himas thieves, robbers, and evil-doers ; but whenhe found they were all grave Christian men,banished for Presbyterian principles, he said hewould sail the sea with none such. In this con¬fusion j that the one skipper would not receivethem, and the other would keep them no longer,being expensive to maintain them they were allset at liberty. Some reported that both skip¬pers got compliments from friends at London :however, it is certain they were all set free with¬out any imposition of bonds or oaths : andfriends at London, and on their way homewardsthrosgh England, shewed much kindness untothem.10. That dismal day, June 23d, 1679, atBothwel-bridge, that the Lord’s people fell, andfled before the enemy, he was forty miles distant,near the border, and kept himself retired untilthe middle of the day, that some friends saidto him, 4 Sir, the people are waiting for sermon.’He said, ' Let the people go to their prayers ;for me, I neither can nor will preach any thisday ; for our friends are fallen, and fled beforethe enemy at Hamilton; and they are hanging12and hashing them down, and their blood isrunning like water !’11. After this, he was preaching in Galloway-—in the forenoon, he prayed earnestly for theprisoners taken at and about Bothwel; but inthe afternoon, when he began to pray for themhe halted and said, ‘ Our friends at Edinburgh,the prisoners, have done something to save theirlives that shall not do with them, for the sea-billows shall be many of their winding sheets :and the few of them that escape, shall not beuseful to God in their generationWhich w'assadly verified thereafter. That which the great¬est part of these prisoners did, was the takingof that bond, commonly called the Black Bond,after Bothwel, wherein they acknowledged theirappearance in arms, for the defence of the gos¬pel and their own lives to be rebellion ; and en¬gaged themselves never to make any more op¬position : upon the doing of which, these per¬fidious enemies promised them life and liberty.This with cursed and subtle arguments andadvices of ministers, who went into the NewYard, where they were prisoners, particularlyMr Hugh Kennedy, Mr William Chrichton,Edward Jamieson, and Mr George Johnston ;these took their turn in the yard where theprisoners were, together with a letter that wassent from that Erastian meeting of ministers,11met at Edinburgh in August 1679, for the ac¬ceptance of a third indulgence, with a caution¬ary bond. Notwithstanding of the enemies’iromise, and the unhappy advice of ministersnot indulged, after they were ensnared in thisfoul compliance, they banished ^55, whereof205, perished in the Orkney sea. This foulstep, as some of them told, both in their life,and when dying, lay heavy upon them all theirdays; and that these unhappy arguments andadvices of ministers, prevailed more with themthan the enemies’promise of life and liberty,[n August, 1676, fifteen of the Bothwel pris¬oners got indictments of death. Mr EdwardJamieson, a worthy Presbyterian minister, asMr Wodrow calls him, was sent from that Er-astian meeting of ministers into the Tolbooth tothese fifteen, who urged the lawfulness of takinghe bond to save their lives ; and the refusal oft would be a reflection to religion, and thecause they had appeared for, and a throwingaway their lives, for which their friends wouldnot be able to vindicate them. He prevailedwith thirteen of them, which soured in thestomachs of some of those thirteen, and layiienvy upon them both in their life and death.The prisoners taken at and about the time ofBothwel, were reckoned about fifteen hundred .The faithful Mr John Blackadder did write to14these prisoners, dissuading them from that foulcompliance ; and some worthy persons of theseprisoners, whom he wrote to, said to me withtears, that they slighted his advice, and swallowed the unhappy advices of these ministers whowere making peace with the enemies of Godand followed their foul steps, for which they gomourning to their graves. I heard the sameMr Blackadder preach his last public sermonbefore falling into the enemies’ hands, in thenight-time, in the fields, in the parish of Living¬stone, upon the side of the Muir, at New-houseon the 23d March, after Bothwel, where hejjlectured upon Micah iv. from the 9th verse,where he asserted, That the nearer the delivery,our pains and showers vvhould ceme the thickerand sorer upon us; and that we had been longin the fields, but ere we were delivered, we wouldgo down to Babylon ; that either popery wouldoverspread this land, or be at the breaking inupon us like an inundation of water. Andpreached upon that text, f Let no man be movedwith these afflictions, for ye yourselves know.that ye are appointed thereunto.’ Where heinsisted on that moving and shaking dispensations the Lord had exercised his people with informer ages, especially that man of God, thatwent to Jeroboam at Bethel, and delivered hicommission faithfully, and yet was turned ouf the way by an old lying prophet; how mov-ng and stumbling the manner of his death waso all Israel ! And earnestly requested us to take;ood heed to what ministers we heard, and-hat advice we followed. When he praved,e blessed the Lord that he was free of bothand and rope: and that he was as clearlyilling to hold up the public bleststandard of theospel as ever: And said, The Lord rebuke,ive repentance and forgiveness to these mini-ters that persuaded these prisoners to take thatond. For their perishing by sea was moreloving and shocking to him, than if somehousands of them had been slain in the field.Ie was thereafter taken, the 6th of April, bylajor Johnston, in Edinburgh, and detainednsoner in the Bass where he died. As the■ iterest of Christ lay near his heart through his' fe’ amongst the last Words he said. The Lord'ill defend his own cause.i 7. Shorty after that sad stroke at Bothwell,e went to Ireland, but did not stay long atlat time. In his travels through Galloway, he’ame to a house, and looking in thegoodman’sice, he said, They call you an honest man, but’you be so, you look not like it, you will notmg keep that name, but will discover yourselfi be what you are. And shortly after, he wasiade to flee for sheep-stealing. In that short]6time lie was in Ireland, the Governor requiredof all Presbyterian ministers that were in Ire¬land, that they should give it under their hand,that they had no accession to the late rebellionat Bothwel-bridge, in Scotland, and that the}did not approve of it; which the most part didand sent Mr Thomas Gowans, a Scotsman, antone Mr Paton, from the north of Ireland tcDublin, to present it to the Lord Lieutenantthe which when Mr Peden heard, he said, Ml ■Gowans and his brother Mr Paton are sent antgone the devil’s errand, but God will arresthem by the gate. And accordingly, MiGowans, by the way, was struck with a sornsickness, and Mr Paton fell from his horse, ant"broke or crushed his leg ; and both of them wersdetained beyond expectation. I had this accoun rfrom some worthy Christians when in Ireland18. In theyear 1682, he married John Browtin Kyle, at his own house in Priesthall, thasingular Christian, upon Marion Weir. Aftermarriage; he said to the bride, Marion, ym 4have got a good man to be your husband, buyou will not enjoy him long : prize his company 1and keep linen by you for his winding-sheet, fo: -you will need it when you are not looking foit, and it will be a bloody one. This came sadlf:to pass in the beginning of May, 1685, as after¬wards shall appear.1719. After this, in the year 1682, he went toI eland again, and came to the house of Williamteel, in Glenwharry, in the county ot Antrim ;: enquired at Sirs Steel if she wanted a servantr threshing victual ? She said they did, andiquired what his wages were a-day, or a-week.ie said, the common rate was a common rule ;> which she assented.—At night he was put to;d, in the barn, with the servant-lad ; and thatight he spent in prayer and groaning, up andown the barn. On the morrow he threshedctual with the lad, and the next night he spentie same way. The second day, in the morn-ig, the lad said to his mistress, This man sleepsone, but groans and prays all night; I get noeep for him : he threshes very well, and is not)aring of himself, tho’ I think he has not beenised with it, for he can do nothing to the bot-•ling and ordering of the barn; and when Iut the barn in order, he goes to such a place,nd there he prays for the afflicted Church ofGotland, and names so many in the furnace.—le wrought the second day, and his mistressratched and overheard him praying, as the ladad said.—At night she desired her husband tonquire if he was a minister, which he did, andesired him to be free with him, and he shouldot only be no enemy to him, but a friend. Mr?eden said, he was not ashamed of his office;and *rave him an account of his circumstaneHe vvas no more set to work, nor to lie with tlad ; and he staid a considerable time in tlplace, and was a blessed instrument in the ccversion of some, and civilizing of others, thointhat place was noted for a wild rude people, a|the fruit cf bis labour appears unto this dsThere was a servant-lass in that house, thatcould not look upon but with frowns : and sontimes, when at family-worship, he said, pointito her with a frowning countenance. You coifrom the barn and from the byre reekingyour lusts, and sits down among us: we do nwant you, nor none such. At last he saidWilliam Steel and his wife, Put that unhapjlass from your house, for she will be a stain tyour family, for she is with child, and will muder it, and will be punished for the same. Whiiaccordingly came to pass, and she was burntCarrick fergus, which is the punishment of muderers of children there. I had this account froJohn Muirhead, who staid much in thathousand other Christian people, when in Ireland.20. After this, he longed to be out of Irelamthrough the fearful apprehensions of that djmal day of rebellion in Ireland, that came upcit four years thereafter, and that he might talpart with the sufferers in Scotland. He cannear the coast one morning: John Muirhea191came to him; lying within a hedge: he said,Have you any news, John ? John said. Thereis great fear of the Irish rising. He said, no^no, John, the time of their arising is not yet; butthey will rise, and dreadful will it be at last.He was long detained waiting for a bark, notdaring to go to public parts, but to some remotecreek of the sea. Alexander Gordon of Kinstuirin Galloway, had agreed with one, but Mr Pe-den woukd not sail the sea with him, having someforesight of what he did prove afterwards.—Inthe beginning of August before this, Kinstuirwas relieved at Enterken-path, going fromDumfries to Edinburgh prisoner; when thenews of it came to Ireland, our Scots sufferers,their acquaintance, were glad of the news,especially that Kinstuir had escaped. Mr Pe-den said, \\ hat means all this Kinstuiring ?—There is some of them relieved there, that oneof them is worth many of him ; for ye will beashamed of him ere all be done. Being in thisstrait, he said to Robert Wark, an old worthyChristian, worthy of credit, Robert, go and takesuch a man with you, and the first bark ye canfind, compel them, for they will be like the dogsin Egypt, not one of them will move their tongueagainst you. Accordingly Robert and comradefound it so and brought her to that secret {dacewhere he was. When Robert and his comradefe,-I20came and told him, he was glad and very kindand free; but seemed under a cloud at that time.H e said lads, I have lost my prospect wherewith81 was wont to look over to the bloody land, andtell you and others what enemies and friendswere doing; the devil and I paddles and ridestimc-about upon one another : but if I wereuppermost agtSjfr), I shall ride hard, and spur-gaw well. I have been praying for a swift pas¬sage over to the sinful land, come of us whatwill: and now Alexander Gordon is away withmy prayer-wind; but it were good for the rem¬nant in Scotland he never saw it; for as theLord lives, he shall wound that interest ere he ,go off the stage —This sadly came to pass in his ilife, and was a reproach to it at his death. A .little before they came off, he baptized a child <to John Maxwell, a Glasgow man, who was fledover from the persecution : in his discourse be- ifore baptism, he bursted out into a rapture,foretelling that black day that was to come up- •on Ireland, and sad days to Scotland, and after!1all there was to come good days. Mrs Max- !'well, or Mary Elphiugson, the mother of the!child, yet alive in Glasgow, told me this, That jin the time he was asserting these things, shewas thinking and wondering what ground ofassurance he had for them, when he cried aloudshaking his hand at her, woman thou art think-;21g and wondering within thyself, whether I' speaking these things out of the visions ofy own head, or if I be taught by the spirit ofod ; I tell thee woman, thou shall live ande that I am not mistaken. She told me thate was very lately delivered, and out of theeat desire to have her child baptised before> came off, that she took travail too soon;lid being weak, and so suiprised with his tell-g her the thoughts of his heart, that she wasdanger of falling off the chair. At this ex¬cise also he told them, that lie could not winF till he got this done, and this was all the•ink money he had left in Ireland, and to thennily (pointing to the Laifdlord) for all the kindness! had met with from them. After baptism they got•eakfaat; there was plenty of bread upon the table,eking a blessing, he put his hand beneath the bread,id holding it up with much affection and tears,id, “ Lord, there is a well covered table, and plenty’ bread: but what comes of the poor young, kindly,anest hearted lad, Renwick, that shames us all, inarving and holding up his fainting mother’s head,hen of all the children she has brought forth, there'none will avowedly take her by the hand : and4e poor, cold, hungry lads on the hills? For honourthine own cause, let them not starve : thou causedravenous bird, greedy of flesh itself, to feed Elijah :nd thou fed thy people in the wildnerness with‘ ngel’s food ,• and blessed a few loaves and smallshes, and made them sufficient for many ; and had22experience of want, weariness, cold and hunger,enemies daily hunting for thy life, while in the worlook to them and provide for them,” The waitbeing advertised of the bark being in that place, tljand other people came upon them, which oblithem that were to come off, to secure the Waitand people altogether, for fear of the garrison.Carrickfergus apprehending them, being near towhich obliged them to come off immediately, twen’six of our Scots sufferers came aboard, he stood upthe deck and prayed, there being not the least wijwhere he made a rehearsal of times and places, whand where the Lord had heard and answered thin the days of their distress, and how they werea great strait. Waving his hand to the west, frwhence he desired the wiaaf he said, ‘ Lord giveloof-full of wind : fill the sails, Lord and give usfresh gale, and let us have a swift passage over tobloody land, come of us what will.’ John MuirhecRobert Wark, and others who were present told athat when he began to pray, the sails were all hading straight down, but ere he ended, they werelike blown bladders. They put out the Waiters aother people and got a very swift and safe passagThe twenty-six Scots Sufferers that were with hihaving provided themselves with arms, and beidesigned to return to Scotland, there being then sua noise of killing; and the report was no greater ththe deed, it being then in the heat of killing time,the end of February, 1685, when at exercise in tbark, he said, c Lord thou knowest these lads are hspirited, lay an arrest upon them, that they may n23ear; their time is not yet; though Monmouth1 Argyle be coming, they will work no deliver¬'s.’ At that time there was no report of theiriin<r, for thev came not for ten weeks thereafter,the morning after they landed, he lectured beforey parted, sitting upon a braeside, where he had-ful threatenings against Scotland, saying, the timeJi coming that they migi*t travel many miles inlloway and Nithsdale, Ayr and Clydesdale, and[ not see a reeking house, nor hear a cock crow.>8. When the day of his death drew near, and notng able to travel, he came to his brothers housethe parish of Sorn, where he was born. He causedr a cave with a saughen bush covering the mouth[it, near to his brother’s house ; and the enemiesr.e and searched the Y *ise narrowly many times.1 the time that he was in this cave, he said to someends, 1. That God shall make Scotland a desola->n. 2. There shall be a remnant in the land, w homDd should spare and hide. 3. They should lie i*ilea and caves of the earth, and be supplied witheat and diink : And when they come out of theirdes, they shall not have freedom to walk for stum-ing on the dead corpses. 4. A stone cut of aountain, should come down, and God shall be a-mged on the great ones of the earth, and the in-ibitants of the land, for their wickedness, and thente Church should come forth with a bonny bairnme of young ones at her back. He w ished that the.ord’s people might lie hid in their caves, as if they;ere not in the wnrld, for nothing would do it, untilJod appeared with his judgments, and they that wan'24■ ! £through the bitter and sharji short storm by the swof the Frenches, and a setjMkunhappy men, tafcipart with them, then thera^pnnld be <a spring-day of the plenty, purity ancfjmwer of the gospGiving them that for a sign, If he were but qburied, they might be in doubts; but if he ^oftener buried thap o^.r , they might be persuathat all he had said would come to pass: And »nestly desired him to take his corpse out to Aiimoss, and bury them sidp Richy (meanings "Cameron) that he might get res| in his grave, forhad gotten little through his life: but he said*knew they would not do it..28. Within forty-eight Jhours he died, Janu28th, 1686, being past si nears; and was burin the Laird of Afflect’s The enemies gottice of his death and burial, and sent a troopdragoons, and lifted his corpse and carried himCumnock gallows foot, and buried him there (aibeing forty days in the grave) beside others. 1friends thereafter laid a grave-stone above him, wthis inscription :—HERE LIESMr ALEXANDER FEDEX,A Faithful Minister of the Gospel,at Glenluce,Who departed this life, January 28, 1686,And was raised after six weeks'Out of his Grave,And buried here out of contempt.-» FINIS.it V■