AN AWFUL,Desperate and Bhody Battle,FOR THEBREECHES,That was FOUGHT laft Saturday Night,BETWEENA LOVELY COUPLE,Ifdjo had been married a whole Fortnight,And which ended not without Bloodfhei.ALSO, THEArticles of AgreementAND PACIFICATION BETWEEN THEM,After the Battle was over.GLASGOW:Printed by Thomas Duncan, No. 3, High StreetA Battle for the. Breeches,F t i T-T0W now» Dorothy, where have ydu bcewi'" .L J. to dav ?Dorothy. What’s that to thee, thou bold fac’ccuckold rogue.Peter. How now, Dorothy, what’s the mater withyou ? What, are you drunk ?Dor. How drunk, Sirrah! give me fuch anotherword, and I will make thy face ring againft the wallthou brazen fac’d rafcal; and as thou likes that ilapon the chops, fo prate to me the next time.Peter. How now, Dorothy, what’s the matter withyou now ? what! do you begin your old tricks again ltreVy Dame, I fcora to take it at your hands as 1 havedone; come, take thou that, you drunken quean !Dorothy. O, thou cowardly rogue, is this themanhood thou haft gotten, bo ftrike a woman tiiathas nothing in her handPeter. Come, come, Dorothy, that matter (hall beamended 5 here, take thy rock: I am fure thou haftnot ufed it this many a day except it was to break myhead.Do ♦nth y. Come, you p 'ating knave, are youpreaching now ? give me but hold of that flick, andI’ll be thy clerk to say Amen to your Cuckold’s capby and by—take you that, firrah; ay, and that too,goodman rafcal, for eating my piece of cuftard laftnight; I have not forgot it yet, I warrant thee.Peter. No, thou brazen fac’d flu*', nor have I for¬gotten fince you came home diunk. and broke my3:head with the tongs, for noting hut aflcing you whereyou had been ; therefore take you that, you drunkenliyhore! ay, and that too., p Dorothy. O thou rogue, wilt thou murder me,:hou bloody minded villam : but take my word, I willoe even with thee by and by, if thou wilt let me takeny wind a little.i , Peter. Nay, thou brazen faced quean. I’ll keep youwarm, for thou fiialt not get cold under rav hands ;10, my medicines will not work if you get cold.Dorothy. Well, well. Sirrah, I will make youlearly pay for this anon, for I teil thee truly, I fccrn0 be beholden to fuch a loufy rogue as thou art: no,drrah. If I die in thy debt, the devil take my bones,-lo, no, you brazen fac’d rafcal, I’ll pay thee while Iave one penny in my purfe or one fpark of mtXal ininy limbs, and that thou fhall find before I have donal-'ith thee ; and so change me that groat, thou rogue!iVhy, how now, you rafcal, hold up your head; what,:re you drunk ?• Peter. No you whore, I am not drunk, tliough youave knockt me down : no, I wiil afsure thee that Im able to take another bout yet, thou\halt find Pe-rr has some ftrength left in him yet, though you toldne Taylor he was no man, nor had any metal in him,'hen he was kiffing thee at Iflington town end, thouhere.1 Dor. Out then, base cowardly rogue, thou fhow-l thy breeding like a knave as thou art, knowingly wife to have but one fault, and thou, like an in£udent rogue, to difeover it: have at you once again>r that trick; I think I have met with thee now.i Pet. Mef with me now, Dorothy, I hope you willad before we parr, that you have met witk me, anditli your match too; for I remember, not long since.4you camehome drunk,Vkh your clothes all dirt ariimire, as if it had been a fow that had been wallowing ithe mire in June^and I but said, alas wifeyon have gotten a fall; and you prefentlytOok the ladleout of thepcas it was boiling on the fire, and broke my head with i.and that you fhall pay for now, take^my word for irDor. Spare me not, firrah, for take my word fcit, I will not fpare thee ; I warrant thee I am able tgive thee bang for bang yet, and that you fh'aH faofind ; take you that, you cuckoldy flave, that is fceating my pig’s head, I am sure your fauce is good.Pet. Aye, Dorothy, muft we have another bout fcit ? take my word, if thou got but a little of the pig;head, you fhall have enough of fauce, for indeed I dnot care as much for your fauce as I do for the mea'therefore pray you flay and take some of your faucagain ; nay, but Dorothy, turn, ccrne about; wh?would you fain begone now ? I h^ve another acdomfto call up with you yet before you go.Dorothy. Have you, firrah: No. no, I would havyou to think that I fcorn to be counted a coward yetno, firrah—-crack me that nut.Peter. Pox take you and your nuts too, if they fcall Inch as thofe, for they be devilifb hard.Dor. No, no, firrah, you are deceived, these at;but easy ones, I have an almond nut for thee yet: Cbut it will melt in thy mouth like a honey pear, fait!Pet. Aye but the devil take thee and thy almorvnuts if thefe be they ; but it is no matter, I will give thea difh of choak pears, which will do thee a great dotof good; and as you like these, you fhall have mor«for I have enough for thee.Dor. Aye, but Peter, hold thy hand a little, anljlet me fpeak to thee : I pray thee, tell me what is thtireafon that thou doft abufe thy wife in this manner ?5r Peter. O, Dorothy, to thy flander I can veiywell anfVer, for this is but a Hander to fay I abtifeyou, for I hate to abilfe my wife. O, Dorothy, Ido but pay my debts.Dor. Youi debts with a vengeance, may the deviltake fuch paymaders that pay their debts wirh blows.Peter. /. r» eo, Dorothy, but I think the devil willrot be troubled with fuch a one as thou art; I wi(hhe would, he would do me a good turn.Dor. Why, thou brazen fac’d rotterdam cucboldyrogue, doit thou think I am too bad for the devil; no,rogue, before I go to the devil I will have anotherbent with thee, and that foon too;. I will teach you,firrah, to refign your wife to the devil fly brals! Hold,hold, thou cuckoldy coward ! is this thy manhood, toftrike now when thou feeft my cudgel in pieces.Peter. No, no, Dorothy, you fhall have anotherif you pleafe.Dorothy. Another, rogue ! aye and another toe,for before I will give in to thee, all the cudgels m thetown (hall fail me ; firrah, 1 would have you to thinkI am not done with you yet, mind that.Peter, 'lake this, if we muft have the other bout.Dorothy. The other bout, rogue ! aye and theother bout too; doft thou think to have thy will of mewith thy great words; no, firrah, it fliall never befaid that 1 will yield to thee while there is life in mybody, or at leaft w bile I am able to lift up my cudgel,and fo take rhee that.Peter. Lay on as hard as thou canft, thou boldbrazen fac’d flut, I Icorn to afk thee any favour, andif thou look for any at my hands, thou mzyeft be de¬ceived, except thou mend thy manners; what, haveyou forgot firree I found you and the pear-monger inthe cellar a killing for a peck of pears; and when I6but a fie ed rou what you were doing, you up with thethree footed fiool and broke my nofe. and I am sureit was but the trick of a whore.Dor. Sirrah, it is not a broken nose nor a brokenhead that ferve your turn, for, take my word I donot intend to leave thee one whole bone in thy fldn ;therefore have at all, hit or mifs for a cow heel—back,legs, (ides, arms, or any other place, l care not.Peter. O daintily done, Dorothy! play thy work,thou mayeft come to get thy wages anon ; fo I mayhold till 1 have not a whole bone, indeed ; nay. faith,miftress, have with, you, if you go but a mile a day,I wi'*1. follow, I cannot endur* this.Dor. Sirrah, if thou cannot end tire this, thou hadftbetter lay down thy cudgel, and yield the Breeches tome, and Hand at my mercy, and it lhall never be theworfe for thee.Pet. How, yield the Breeches to thee ! then thedevil take Peter for a fool: I can have no worfe lifethan 1 have ; if thou canfi win the Breeches, then thoullialt wear them ; therefore provide thyself for anotherfingle bout, or e’fe own me to be thy mailerDorothy. My mailer, lirrah ! no, I fcorn to yiehwhile I have one drop of blood in me ; I would havethee to know I care as little for a broker, head as thoutherefore have at that fiery nofe of thine, I will makeit as flat to thy face as a picture upon a fix-pence.Pet, Hold, Dorothy, I fee that I mull leave offmy own trade, and fall to the tanning trade a while,and help thee to tan that whore’s hide of your’s a littlebetter : you fee I but parry wilh you, and you carenot, but now have at you with a new fupply : take myword this bout lhall pay for all; for now I will eitherwin the horfe or lofe the faddle; therefore mak^ theeready, and not fay that 1 come upon thee cowardly.7Dorothy. I am as ready as thou, I warrant thee,and that thou (halt find—O, manfully done.Peter. Stand eff, you whore, do not come (6 nigh,Dorothy. For what, you cuckold rogue ; what beyou afraid of your horns frv, they be not fo little butthey may he able to bide a bang.Peter. I will bang any whore’s hide—to be doing !Dor. Murder, murder! good hufband hold thy hand!I am killed, I am killed ! good hufband forgive me,and l will be the bed wife that ever lay by man’s fide.Peter. Yes, yes, you tell me fo, but trufl you,and k had as good hang you ; for when you comehome drunk, then you will be in your majefty again :then comes out, ‘ you rogue’ at every word ; then thetongs, the ladle, the brafs candleftick, they muft flyabout my ears, and fometimes the three footed (toolmuft comb my head ; faith I thought a pay daywould come at laft.Dorothy. No, good hulband, take my word thistime, and upon my life I will be as good as my word,«-nd whatever you would have me to do, I will do it.Peter. Well, Dorothy, feeing you give me fomany good words, I will try you once more on thiscondition, that is, to (land to the articles which fliallbe here laid before you.Dorothy. Truly, hufband, whatfoever you wouldhave me to fay or do, I will do it.Peter. Well then Dorothy, I will forgive thee;but, firft, down on thy knees and afk my forgiveness.Dorothy, I will, good ho (band ; forgive me andI will never do fo any more.Peter. Well, Dorothy, upon tire conditions whichI will here relate, I fhall forgive you.Dorothy. Indeed, Peter, let it be what you will,I am content to do it.THE ARTICLES.IfPet. Come, hold up your hand. Dor. 1 will, PeterPet. Firft of all, will you never be drunk again ?Dor. No indeed, never while I live.Peter. Nor let the taylor ever kits you ?Dor. No, indeed hufband, never while I live; if Ido, hang me ; he cozen'd me with a brafs half crown.Pet Nor will you ever break my head with the ladle:Dorothy. No indeed I will burn it firft.Peter. Nor will you ever break my head with thebrafs candleftick, as you did on Saturday ?Dorothy. No, indeed, I will not.Peter. Nor never let the pear-monger kifs you ?Dorothy. No indeed, never while I live.Peter. Nor will you ever break my nofe with thethree footed (tool, as you did that day ?Dorothy. No truly, hulband, I will not; and ifyou will be pleafed to forgive me wliat is paft, I willprove the beft wife that ever man married.Pet. Come, wife, on thefe conditions I will forgiveyou, fo come and give me a kifs, and we will be friendsDorothy. With all my heart.Peter. Come, wife, fetch us two pots of beer, andlet us drink for joy of our agreement. ^Dorothy. With all my heart.So ijie beer being come, fays Peter, drink to.me my rlove on this bargain, and I’ll fing you a fong.Pet —-Come, my dear Dorothy^-give me your hand, IFrom henceforth in love we’ll for ever agree.And if that you true to your promife do ftand.There’s nond upon earth that more happy will be.Dor—-My dear.loving hufband, I give you my hand,With my hearty thanks for your kindnefs to me.And while I have life to my promiife I’>1 ftand,With trueft a fiction, dear hufband, to thee. xFINIS.