tTHE HISTORYOFDuncan CampbellAND HISDog Oscar.FJiOM HOQG’S EVENING TAUm.IMotod by D. Macaiieri Sons, Ay*.J. Lr-r^o'ES 5.:VJ5IJR!DUNCAN CAMPBELL.Duncan Campbell came from the Highlands, whesix years of age. to live with an o’d maiden aunt iEdinburgh, and attend the school. His mother wdead : but his father had supplied her place, by marrying his hou^keeper. Duncan did not trouble hint>tdf about these matters, nor indeed about an’;:-oilier matters.- -save a blac(c foal of) his father’*artd a lar^e. s&ga6ious colley, named 6scar,' whiclbelonged to one of the shepherds. There beinno other boy save Duncan about the house, Oscar anhe were constant companions —with his garter tiecround Oscar’s neck, and a piece of deal tied to his bbusby tail, Duncan woul.l often lead him about tbjgreen, pleased with the idea that he was conducting ihor>e and cart. Oscar submitted to all this *-ith greacheerfulness, but whenever Duncan mounted to rid»on him, he found means instantly to unhorse himeither by galloping, or roiling himself on the greenWhen Duncan threatened him, he looked submissiveand licked his face and hands; when he corrected hiuwith the whip, he cowered at his feet;—matters wensoon made up. Oscar would lodge no where durinsthe night but at the door of the room where his younjfriend slept, and wo be to the man or woman who veo,lured to enter it at untimely hours.When Duncan left his native home he thoughtof his father, nor any of the servants. He was fon«:4f the ride, and some supposed that he even scarce!thought of the black foal; but when he saw Osca,standing looking him ruefully in the face, the tearimmediately blinded both his eyes. He caught hinlaiound the neck, hugged and kissed him,—“ Goodjyye Oscar,” said he blubbariag; “ good - by e, GatnJsI bless you, my dear OscarDuncan mounted before; a servant, and rode away—Oscar still followed at ai distance, until he reached' the top of the hill—he theai sat down and howled; Duncan cried till his little hearti was like to burst—“ What ails you ?” said the servant.1 M I will never see my poor honest Oscar again,” saidj Duncan, “ an* my heart canna bide it ”Duncan staid a year in Edinburgh, but he did noti make great progress in learning. He did not approvei highly of attending the school, and his aunt was too) indulgent to compel his attendance. She grew ex-I tiemely ill one day—the maids kept constantly by her,and never regarded Duncan. He was an additionali charge to them, and they never loved him, but used| him hardly. It was now with great difficulty that hei could obtain either meat or drink. In a few days af-l| ter his aunt was taken ill she died.—All was in con-! fusion, and poor Duncan was like to perish with hun-, ger;—he could find no person in the house ; but hear-jj ing a noise in his aunt’s chamber, he went in, and be¬ll held them dressing the corpse of his kin,d relation;^—|j it was enough.—Duncan was horrified beyond whatii mortal breast was able to endure;—he hasted downi| the stair, and ran along the High Street, and South1 Bridge, as fas! as his feet could carry him, crying in-Hi eessantly all the way. He would not have entere'dI; that house again, if the world had been offered him as« a reward. Some people stopped him, in order to askjj what was the matter, but he could only answer themV by exclaiming, “ Oh, dear ! Oh, dear}” and, strugglingii till he got free, held on his course, careless whither fte# went, provided he got far enough from the horrid.|-scene he had so lately witnessed. Some have sup-i posed, and I believe Duncan has been heard to con¬fess, that he then imagined he was running for theHighlands, but mistook the direction. However thatwas, he continued his coarse until he came to a place4> wbere t^o ways met, a little south of Grange ToHere he sat down, and his frenzied passion >ubsidinto a soft melancholy ;—he cried no more, but soibed excessively ; fixed his eyes on the ground, anmade some strokes in the dust with his fingerA sight just then appeared, which somewhat diceod, or at least inteiVsti d. his heavy snd forlorn hea—it was a large drove of Highland cattle. They weithe only creatines like acquaintances that Duncan haseen fot a twelvemonth, ami a tender feeling of jojlmixed with regret, thrilled his heart at the sighttheir white horns and broad dew laps. ^ As tne vpassed him. he thought their looks were pa.ticularigruff and sullen; he soon perceived the cause, theijwere'all in the hands of Englishmen :■*—poor exiles liklhimself:—going far away to he killed and eaten, andwould never see the Highland hills again !When jthev were all gone by, Duncan looked afteth em and wept anew ; but his attention was sudden!called away to something that softly touched his feet—he looked hastily about—it was a poor hungry I: njidog, squatted on the ground, licking his feet, ammanifesting the most extravagant jov. Gracious Heaven ! it was his own beloved and faithful Oscar! starvedemaciated, and so crippled, that he was scarcely abUto wa k! He was now doomed to be the slave ot 4Yorkshire peasant (who, it seems,'had either bought®r atolen him at Falkirk.) the generosity and benevo-knee of whose feelings were as inferior to those of Os¬car, as Oscar was inferior to him in strength auditpower. It is impossible to conceive a more tender)meeting than this was; but Duncan soon observed!1Shat hunger and misery were painted :n hit friend'slooks, which agaia pierced his heart with feelings un¬felt before. “ I bare sot a crumb to give yon, mvpoor Oscar!” said he—“ I have »ot a crumb to eattayself, bat I am *M softl ss y»c are** The pafesflbwhistled aloud. Oscar weft knew the,?'fiuad, an#clinging to the boy's bosam, leaned his head np<?n his-thigh, and looked in his face, as if saying, “ O Dun*can, protect me from yon ruffian.” The whistle wasrepeated accompanied by a loud and surly call, Os¬car trembled, but fearing to disobey, he limped awayreluctantly after his unfeeling master, who observinghim to linger and look back, imagined he wanted toeffect his escape, and came running back to meet. him.O'car cowered to the earth in themo't submissive andImploring manner, but the peasant laid hold of him bythe ear, and uttering many imprecations, struck himwith a thick staff till hp lav senseless at his feet.Iwery posMble circumstance seemed combined tawound the feelings iif poor Duncar>. but this unmerit*ed barbarity shucked him most of. all. He basted tor«.v sc< no pi action, weeping bitterly, .and reding the.man llifit, Jie was a ciuei brute: andidhat. if ever he.. h. m.-eif gf<;w> -a big man lie. would eprtainly kth him.lie heid up.hjs lavounte’s head lhat he tmght recover. Ins breath, aod live man kimivi iog ilwt ho .cog id do littlev, .houi his dog. waited, pafJemtly. ts> see wlutt wouldthe isspe, I he ahi..■ <11 n cnvi veu and dV,'.'P'. rpfi.. a«ay: t. the neeb i.f his tyrant without darf.-g to• iooScI. belnpd hjjf). ] Dm-can stood' stail hut kept !tis exesJ .XRgi tis bxed gpxm Osehr. ••mrd the farther he w ent! fidai him the no.re .strioig his desire grew to billowfl; hjtp. F.edmsk 'il the other wav. but all there was toI r.im a bkHoh —lie hid .no desire do stand where he was,to h,e fuiiawed Qs.ar! am) the drove-ol da‘-;t lb.],/ The cattle-were xvdary.and \vert tloxviy and Dun*V’0!v .gcuing a btt,ie goad id Ins haw’.,' assisted the men•! •. greatly, in .driving them. Onenf the drivers gave him' j a penny, end a.nother gave him twdpence; arid the1 lath who had tl'e. charge of. the. drove, observing how" ..active and pliable lie was. and how fat1 he had aceom-•ifj papied.him on th.e way, gave him sixpence ; this Wastreasure to Duncan, who being extreriielv himgr-6bought three psnviy rolls as he passed through a tov ione of these he ate himself, another he gave to Osca j'and the third he carried below his arm in case of ffther necessity. He drove on all the day, and at nig ithe cattle rested upon a height, which, by hi» descriition, seems- to have been that between Gaia Wat• and Middleton.* Duncan went off at a side in cospany with Oscar, to eat his roll, and taking shelf1behind-an old earthen wall, they shared their dry mt hmost lovingly between them. Ere it was quifinished, Duncan being fatigued, dropped into a pr|hfound slumber, out of which be did not awake un|the next morning was far advanced, EnglishrneJ:cattle, and Oscar, all were gone. Duncan found hi Jself alone on a wild height, in what country or kingdcflhe knew not. He sat for some time in a callous stu|or, rubbing his eyes and scratching his head, hquite irresolute what was farther necessary for himdo. until he was agreeably surprised by the arrivalOscar, who (though he had gone at his master’s cin the morning) had found means to escape and sathe retreat of his young friend and benefactor. Ducan, without reflecting on the consequences, rejoietin the event, and thought of nothing else than furthttng his escape from the ruthless tyrant who ncclaimed him. For this purpose he thouglit it wonbe best to leave the road, and accordingly he cross«it, in order to go over a waste moor to the westwarHe had not got forty paces 'Yom the ro.id, until I'beheld the enraged Englishman running towards hi.without his coat, and having his staff heaved over hshoulder. Duncan’s heart fainted within him, knovfing it was all over with Oscar, and most likely witjihimself. The peasant seemed not to have observethem, as he was running, and rather looking the othiway; and as Duncan quickly lost sight of him inhollow place that lay between them, he crept intohush £«f heath and took Oscar in his bosom; tfc«* si ti * . ’ * ' •••tlic m#n ha<l obscrwd from wbet>c€ the dog hiL die morning, umi hasted to tlie place, expect tug to, find hipr sleeping beyond the ohl earthen dike j» liefound the nest, but the birds were flown ;~Jhe calleda, alpud ; Oscar trembled and clung to Duncan's breast ci Duncan peeped from his purple covert like a heath-ccick on his native waste, and again beheld the rufliaacoming straight towards them, with his staff still hear-' ed, and fury in his looks;—when he came within afew yards he bellowed out; “Oscar, yhff yho!’1’S| Oscar quaked, and crept still closer to Duncan^ breast;l Duncan almost sunk in the earth ; “ D: n hitn,*'t said the Englishman, “ if I had a hold of him I shouldrj make both him and the little thievish rascal dear at ar.l small price; they cannot be far gone —I think I hearl them ;” he then stood listening, but at that instant aI fanner came up on horseback, and having heard him| cuil, asked him if he had lost his dog ? The peasanti answered in the affirmative, and added, that a black-1, guard boy had stolen him. The farmer said that heI met a boy with a dog about a mile forward. Durin*| this dialogue, the farmer’s dog came up to Duncan’sij den,—smelhd upon him, then upon Oscar,—cockedI his tail, walked round them growling, and then be-1 haved in a very improper and uncivil manner to Dun¬can. who took all patiently, uncertain whether he wasjji vet discovered. But so intent was the fellow upon1 the farmer’s intelligence, that he took no notice of theI discovery made by the dog, but ran off’ without Ipok-|| ing over his shoulder.Duncan felt this a deliverance so great that all hi*» other distresses vanished ; and as soon as the man wasI out of his sight, he arose from his covert, and ran overI the moor, and ere it was long came to a shepherd’shouse, where he got some whey and bread f#r hi#breakfast, which he thought the best meat he hndI ever tasted, yet shared it with Oscar.Though I had his history from hi* own mouth, yet, Acre u a space bere »&idi it is inpaasible U rekwith mj iegrev of dMiactacss or intcreit. He wa« l▼CgabotHi boy, without any fixed habitation, and w& 1dered about Berriot Moor, iron oae farm-houseanother, for the space of d year ^ staying from oto twenty eights in each house, according as he fouithe people, kind to him. He seldom resented arindignity !offered to himself, but whoerer inSuhed Ocar. or offered any observations on the improprietytheir friendship, lost Duncan's company next mornin ,|He staid several months at a plac called Dewar, whu|he said was haunted by the ghost of a piper;—t*piper had been uundered there many years before,a manner some a hat !iiyste<n»us, oral least unaceouiH.bie; ami (hire was scarcely a night-on which he v.isupposed either to be seen or heard about the luiu.'lDuncan slept in the cow-house, and was teinb y h■rasserl bv the|)iper. he often heard him scratching abotile rafters, ai.c siutieti ties he would groan like a madying, nr a cow that was cfioaked in the band; but. ilength he stiw Imo aUhts side out1 night which so dncompin-ed m'at ne w.i$‘ nb.fged to ifave the plac;after benSg to lor tiiafty 1 shail g,ve this sforin Duncan's own wonts, winch 1 have often heard hit1repeat without airy vaiiatum.• I had been timing some young cattle to the height■ of Wi-liensltx—it grew tate before i got home 1 wathinking, and thmking how citfel it was to kill titpoor piper ! to-cut out-hts t-.ngu_, and stab him uthe back. I ihboaht it wits no vt mutt r t'lsat his nit1 ^ Otook it extremely ill; when, ad on a -iidden, i per' ceived a light-hgfofi*'me ;-h.f th >'ught the wand in uj’iiand'tvas itil oh fireparal threw ft awtiy, but. 1 perceived ' fife light glide shlwiy by tiiy right foot, and bur‘behind me ;— 1 was nothing afraid, and turned abouto look at the1 light, bird there 1 saw the piper, \yhwas ■.standing bard at :rtty back, and when I turnedround, he looked are in ’ the j'aCC'.” ‘ What was ltd9ke, Du'iciin ?” ‘ He was like,a dead body! bullW ir sl)ort view of him ; for thr»t moment all around■pe ^re-.y dark as a p.t1—1 trie*! to run.) but stijuk■Ksweriess to ‘he earth and iav in a kind op dream,;Ijo not kyow limv lon^j: wl.en I came to. mysieif. I ^otp and endeavoured to run. but fell .tjw'the ttround(veiy two • teps. I wiis. not a hundrnhyiirds iVom ihe;iouse and 1 am surd 1 fell upwards of <a b'un IredIni -s. Next day 1 was in a Ijitih fever,: tbe servantsjiad * me a littie bed in the kitchen. tOi whicli 1 wasonfined by illness many days, during which timej lpffered the most dreadful agonies liv night. ’alwayslagining the piper to be standing ovjv me-.dn the i*n6tie <>r the other. .Vs soon as I was abla to.walk^t I;ft Dewar, an 1 fur a long time durst neither sleep-lone. during the night .nor stay by mysblf inithe d.ay-1 Tlie superstitious ideas impressed upon d^uooan’sijind by this unfortunate encounter with thetphost of|e piper..■seem never to have been era ■licaledma'Str vug:|stance of the power of early impressions, and a warn-gthmv much caution is necessary in niodefiihg thei nceptions of the young and tender fuind’ fo.vmf alb #rien I ever knew, he is the most afraid Gl meeting •th apparitions. . So deeply is'his imaginatioii1 tainted(Ith this startling illusion, that even the c tlhl duquisi-ons of reas n have proved quite inadeq.i-nt-e to thei<k of dispelling it. Whenever it wears late, lie isiitvais on the look-out for these ideal being*, k.-epmg.ledous eye upon every bush and brake, in case theyumld be lurking behind them, ready to Hy-out aM'tjprise.him every moment; and the approach of arson in tHe dark, or any sudden noise, always de-iv.es him of the power of speech for some time.After leaving Dewar, lie again wandered about forew weeks ; ana it appears that his youth, beauty,,1 peculiarly destitute situation, together with, bismdship for his faithful Oscar, had interested the•  i 10most part of the country people in his behalf, for he »tva* generally treated with kindness. He knew hi* t»father’s name and the name of his house ; but as nona »■.of the pepole he visited had ever before heard of either fc,the one or the other, they gave themselves no troubleabout the matter.He staid nearly two years in a place he called Cow-haur, till a wretch with whom he slept, struck andabused him one day. Duncan, in a rage, flew to theloft, and cut all his Sunday hat. shoes, and coat,pieces; andr not daring to abide the consequences,decamped that night.He wandered about for some time longer, amongthe farmers of Tweed and Yarrow ; but this life wasnow become exceedingly disagreeable to him. H«durst not sleep by himself, and the servants, did notalways choose that a vagrant boy and his great dogshould sleep with them.It was on a rainy night, at the close of harvest, thatDuncan came to my father s house. 1 remember allthe circumstances as well as the transactions ot yes¬terday. The whole of his clothing consisted only of•ne black coat, which, having been made tor a fullgrown man, hung tairly to his heels ; the hair oi hishead was rough, curled, and weather-beaten ; but hisface was ruddy and beautiful, bespeaking a healthybody, and a sensible feeling heart. Oscar was stillnearly as large as himself, had the colour of a fox,with a white stripe down his face, and a ring of thatame colour around his neck, and was the most beau¬tiful coiley I have ever seen. My heart was knit toDuncan at the first sight, and I wept for joy when Imy parents so kind to him. My mother in parsawticular. could scarely do any thing else than conversewith Duncan for several days. I was always of theparty, and listened with wonder and admiration; hutoften have these adventures been repeated to me. Myparents who soon seemed to feel the sarfle concern tor 111iim a« if he had been their own son, clothed him &blue drugget, and bought him a smart little Highlandnonnet; in which dress he looked so charming, that 1would not let them have peace until I got one of thename. Indeed, all that Duncan said or did was to mei pattern, for I loved him as my own life, I was, atmy own request, which he persuaded me to urge, per¬mitted to be his bed-fellow, and many a happy nightand day did I spend with Duncan and Oscar.As far as I remember we felt no privation of anykind, and would have been completely happy, if it hadwot been for the fear of spirits. When the conversa-'ion chanced to turn upon the Piper of Dewar, theMaid of Flora, or the Pedlar of Thiriestane Mill, oftenihave we lain with the bed-clothes drawn over our headsuntil nearly suffocated. We loved the fairies and thebrownies, and even felt a little partiality for the mer¬maids on account of their beauty and charming song* ;we were a little jealous of the water-kelpies, and al¬ways kept aloof from the fnghtscme peels, hatedthe devil most heartily, but we were not much afraidlof him ; but a ghost! oh, dreadful! the names, ghost,ispirit, or apparition, sounded in our ears like the knelllof destruction, and our hearts sunk within us as ifrpierced by the cold icy shaft of death. Duncan herd-led my father's cot?* all the summer—so did I—w*;icould not live asunder. We grew fishers so expert,i that the speckled trout, with all his art, could not eludei«ur machinations; we forced him from his watery cove,ladmired the beautiful shades and purple drops thatiwere painted on his sleek sides, and forthwith addedi him to our number without reluctance. We assailed!the habitation of the wild bee, and rifled all her accu¬mulated sweets, though not without encountering theunost determined resistance. My father’s meadows(abounded with hives; they were almost in evrry swath,—in every hillock. When the swarm was large, they1 would beat us off, day after day. In aU these despe-12rate engagements. 0>car came to our assistance, and, t-provided no.ue,^'the enemy .made a lodgement inhis icwer defile^ lie .was. always: the last combatant ofeur party .on tly .fiyid. J^dpbxH remember of ever bte-ing so much diycjtpJ by. r*AUt,l ever witnessed, ior laugjnng as i^uio *ct-t jjy.as K.lia\/e done at. seeingOscar involved in a tunYMgjdoydi of. wildi bees, wheel-- iftig,. snapping on ii'l sid-..s, a ad shaking Iris ears incest, isantTy. ,The sagacity which tys. tnimi -possessed is almdst li-incredible, while.,his unda, itittd -.soirvr and generosity*, Itit woi^ld do honpar to , v rv servanif .of biff ow>i yptfeies; kto copy. Twice .did’h ' ruve^ti'-m wdrs hfe : 8i tffietime wijen attacked by a fit inns o id .'and at •mothdr ’time when he. fell fiom,behind; tiv\ .father off a h’rtrseintp a flooded river. O tdr liail j -t swimmed across, ibut instantly p^ungidan a s->ca.Hl inn,* to his master’srescue, He first got hold rd’di s. banner but that com-ing off lie quitted it and agon ciitchmg him by fhfrcoat, brought him to the m<Ic, w lari- my father reach-'ed him,. He waked Don-Cim at a.ei'rtain hour everymorning, and would frequ. iitJV turn the cows of Ills .own will, when he dbyerved th ri 'r nig. If Duiicandropped his knife, or uov other small arfcle, he wouldfetch it along in !ii< mon 'i anil u -or b tek for a lostthing, would irtfalli.b.v find it. \Vmm sixteenof age aftgr 0 dug tmwei' t !’ ■ v-rai ti n's he died dueflig’n below In - mtsrrr’s b jd. O ># •/-•ni'ng bef ire,when Duncan came in fi’ i n th ■ p igh he came fromhis hiding place waeg d h:s tut I licked Duncan'shand, and ivtun.ved t > ids ie'un-t)‘ l, D mean and llamented him with unfeigned sorrow. buritM him be¬low the old rowan tree at the back of my father’-, gar-<lt*. placing-a.square stone at his head which was stillStanding the last, time I was rfierev. Wit.'i great labour,we co nposad t^-i epitaph between us, wblcli was once•irved mo that stone ; the metre was good, but thetone was so hard, and the engraving so faint, that theIS• '»I characters, like those of our early joys, are long ag«: defaced and extinct.Often h <ye I heard my (Viother relate with enthusiasm,I Jhe manner in which she and giy father first iliscover-1 ed the dawnjngs of goodness and facility ftf conception(in Duncan's nmul, thoitgh. I.confess, dearly as I lovedihim, these circumstance escaped my ohservatimi. Itiwas my father’s imtariaWe custo<r» to pray with th’e fa-imily every night before they retired to rest, to.thank.Ithe Almighty for his ki^ncsscJgi them during the,by¬gone day. and to tog his prbtectior through the d»ikand si!ent-walCoes of the ntglu. I need not informany of aty teailers. that that^aiiiiablil.duty, consisted infiftt’T.g a tew stanzas of a psalm in which a I the.fit «i'yijotned iJuur voices witlt my father’s; so that the doubleoctaves of the various ages and sexes swelled to thesimple concert. He then read a chapter from theBible. going straight on from beginning to end of-(’heiScriptures. Tile prayer couctud^d the devotions ofisach evening, in which the downfall of Antichrist wasliiwaya strenuously urged the- ministers of the Gos-'pe!ifemeirttu-red. nor was any friend or neighbour in disiSiress forgot. • /At one-time, the year foilowmg/mv father, in the|COur-e of hi-' evening—<le»o*i-ui-' li'-VU reaclfed' •tiie'*r19th chapter of the book of J i ige- ; nlnn'lv bfgha.reading'it. Duncan was -Cat -.i b-*' oth-'-r 'shitV ofjiihe house, but ere it was hatf t-uf-* he ha-l ytiwi1;upjrlo-e to my father’s elbow • t'i> ' id i of ir take iid-|ice, speak your mind” said 'mv’fVi Iter inti c o-;-.i:the:i jtook. ‘Goon go onif you |reaSe SVf ”«^id DtitfipArl-J.go on. and let us hear what f i'-r sit'd about u." Vlyiather lookecfsternly in Duncan's fivce,‘1bht seeing him1 bashed on account of his ha'stv breaciv of decency,/ithout ottering a woul. he again ope'ted the B'bie,md read the 20th chapt -r throughout notwttHstan'dingf its great length. 'Next day Duncan was waitingabout with the Bible below bis arm, begging r*fi every14Wly to read it to him again and again. This incidentproduced a conversation between my parents, on theempenses and utility of education; the consequence•f which was, that the week following, Duncan and Iwere sent to the parish school, and began at the sameinstant to the study of that most important and funda¬mental branch of literature, the A, B, C; but mysister Mary, who was older than I, was already an ac¬curate and elegant reader.This reminds me of another anecdote of Duncan,with regard to family worship, which 1 have oftenheard related, and which I myself may well reotember.My father happening to be absent over night at a fa>?•«iien tiie usual time of worship arrived, my motherdesired a lad, one of the servants, to act as chaplainfar that night; the lad declined it, and slunk away tohis bed. My mother testified her regret that weshould all be obliged to go prayerless to our beds forthat night, observing, that she did not remember thetime when it had so happened before- Duncan said, hethought we might contrive to manage it amongst us,and instantly proposed to sing the psalm and pray, 'fMary would read the chapter. To this my motherwith some hesitation agreed, remarking that if he pray¬ed as he could, with a pure heart, his prayer had asgood a chance of being accepted as some other thatwere better worded. Duncan could not then read, butkaving learned several psalms from Mary by rote, he•aused her seek out the place, and sung the 23dPsaJm from end to end, with great sweetness and de¬cency. Mary reada chapter in the New Testament, andthen (my mother having a child on her knee) we thre«kneeled in a row, while Duncan prayed thus :—“ OLed, be thou our God, our guide, and our guard untodeath, St through death” that was asentence my father of¬ten used his in prayer; Duncanhadlaid holdofit,and mymother bejan to think that he had often prayed previousto that time.—O Lord, thou”—continued, Duncan bu<ift*15his matter was exhausted; a long pause ensued, whichi I at length broke, by bursting into a loud lit of laugh-I ter. Duncan rose hastily, and, without once lifting;i| up his head, went crying to his bed ; and as I continu-ii «d to indulge in laughter, my mother, for my irreve-Irend behaviour, struck me across the shoulders with th*tongs; our evening devotions terminated exceedinglyill, I went crying to ;ny bed after Duncan, even loud*! er than he, and abusing him for his useless prayer, fori which I had been nearly felled.By the time that we were recalled from school U*I herd the cows next summer, we could both read thiBible with considerable facility but Duncan far excell*i ed me in perspicacity ; and so fond was he of readingBible history, that the reading of it was now our con-l slant amusement. Often have Mary, and he, and I,I lain under the same plaid by the side of the corn orII) meadow, and read chapter about on the Bible forhouwI) together, weeping over the failings and fall ol good■nl men, and wondering at the inconceivable might of theheroes of antiquity. Never was man so delighted as: . Duncan was when he came to the history of Samson,i and afterwards of David and Goliath: he could not bei satisfied until he had rend it to every individual with" whom he was acquainted, judging it to be as new andIas interesting to every one as it was to himself. J[have seen him standing by the girls as they weremilking the cows, reading to them the feats of Samson ;!and, in short, harassing every man and woman aboutthe hamlet for audience. On Sundays, my parents' accompanied us to the fields, and joined in our delight-' ful exercise.Time passed away, and so also did our youthful de¬lights ! but other cares and other pleasures aw aited uj.As we advanced in years and strength, we quitted theo f herding, and bore a hand in the labours of the farm.1 Mary, too, was often our assistant. She and Duncanwere nearly of an age-he was tall, comely, and affable;16;and .if Marv wa« not the prettiest g'rl 'jvthe pari li. atleast'. Duncim ancM b .fieved iie^to he .«.» w-hioU, withit-8, araounted to the^same thii We often cpwipar-ed the other girls in the"pa,rish vyitli <jt\e an<)th r as totheir beauty amt ' acconipb.sh'ne.its. hat- to think ofComparing any of them w th M,ai y vvas entirei.y . outof the tpiesfiop. She uyis, indeed.. tin* emk).en» oftruth, simplicity, anil innocence and.if there "e'.'efevtrinpry beautiful,, there weie still f iver so goo t andamn.ble ; but •till as she a.dvag’,i;e.fl ,ip years she .'grewfonder an^ fonder oi being near Duncan; and by thetime she W2S( nnitteen pas .-o deeply in love, that itaffected iier manner, her spin.ts. and her health,.- AtOne time ,she was. gyy tv.'d frisky as a km n ; shawould dance, sing, and taytgh .yioleniiy at the tnosttrivial incidents. At other times she- was silent andsad, while a .languishing soifness overspread her fea¬tures. and atkied greatly,to .her charmf. f'hg passionwas undopbttd y mutual between them ; but Duncan,either from a sense of hotvair or some other causo,* never-declared himself fartlu r on the. suhjeci TJuro bythe niost respectful attention a.nd temter a.-Miluities.About foity years ago the flocks of outhern sh>ep,which have since that period n.nmdatod the Highhinds'had not found their way. <>v.er the Grampian mountains ;and the native flocks of ilym sequestered countrv werego scanty that it was found m cessai y to transportsmalj qaan’ities- «if wool annually to the worth to fur¬nish materials for clothing t!>e inhahitsn.ts. Duringtwo months of each '•ummer, the hill countries of theLowlands wi-reinundated bv hundreds of women fi ointhe Highlands; who,bartered small articles ofdress,and of boniestic import for wool : these were know nby the appellation of norltri vetties; and few nightspassed, during the wool season. thjU Some of themwere not lodged at my father’s house. It was fromtwo of these that Duncan learned one day who andwhat Ire w-as; that he was the laird of Glenellich’sir•olf ion and heir, and that « large buib had b«ea tT*4bre4 to any. pefson that could discover, hint. Mygarenta certainly rejoiced ia Duncan’s good fortuity{et they were disconsolate at parting with him; fore had long ago become as a son of their own ; and Iseriously believe, that from the day they first met, tathat on which the two norlari netties came tc our house,they never once entertained the idea of parting. Formy part, I wished that the netties had never beenborn, or that they had staid at their own home; forthe thoughts of being separated from my dear friendaiade me sick at heart. Ail our feelings were, how¬ever. nothing, when compared with those of my sisterL Mary.One day at. dinner, after a long and sullen pause,I my father said. “ 1 hope you do- not intend t#> leave1 us very soon. Duncan ' *• 1 am thinking of goingaway,,to-morrow. Sir " said Duncan* The knife fellfrom my. moihcr’s hand; she looked him stead- vthe dace for the .space of. a minute. “ Dune in," saidshe, her voice htuhermg, and tin- Uv«r> tlromyog.-frn-.n tier eye — ‘ Duncan. 1 never d’urst a k' youbefore, hut i h -oe you witl not leave os h ti!ge;i.. r F'D iyc.:n thiU'i tile p.ate fituo ireiore liim m.O toemiddle of the tahie—took up; a bo--is th-.t ray on -tliewindow, aim I'oeked over rim pages—Mat v ii.fi thet room. No answer was .return, d. not any fur.iterI inquiry made! ami our-little party broke; up in|. lenee.I* When we met again in the evening, vve were stillt| ail sul’en. My failier said. “ You win soon, forgetIj us Duncan; hut there are some amoiig ns who willij net so soon forget you ’’ Mary ngmn left the room1 and siience en-ued. until the family, v.tre ca'ted to-t getjht r for,eveningworship.The n-.-xt irorniRg* after a restless night, * Duntfani rose early; nut on his-best suit, and packed tVp.s'Ohie• I • little articles to carry with him. 1 bty panting- msdIStTMubling, but pretended to be fast asleep.'' h«as ready to depart, he took His biihdle below his arm•ame up to the side of the bed,! and listened if I wasleeping. He then stood long hesitating, looking wistftdly to the door, and then to me, alternately ; andsaw him three or four times wipe his eyes. At lengL 'be shook me gently by the shoulder, and asked if I waawake. I feigned to start, and answered as if haasleep. “I must bid you farewell,” said he, gropinto get hold of my hand. “ Will you not breakfas iwith us, Duncan ?" said I. “ No,” said he, “ I anthinking that it is best to steal away, for it will breamy heart to take leave of your parents, and”--“ An,who, Duncan ?” said I. “ And you,” said he. “ Iuldeed, but it is not best, Duncan,” said I ; “ we will a jibreakfast together for the last time, and then take Jformal and kind leave of each other.” We did breakfast together, and as the conversation turned on fortvier days it become highly interesting to us all. Whe- jw.y father had returned thanks to Heaven for our mea.we knew what was coming, and began to look at eac*ther. Duncan rose, and after we hud all loaded hirwith our blessings and warmest wishes, he embracemy parents and me.—He turned about.— His eyes saiplainly, there is somebody still wanting, but his heni;was so full lie could not speak. “ What is become cMary?” said my fatherMary was gone.---Wsearched the house, the garden, and the houses of athe cottagers, but she was nowhere to be found.--Poor lovelone forsaken Mary ! She had hid herself iithe ancient yew that, grows in front of the old ruirthat she might see her lover depart, without hersegbring seen, and might indulge in all the luxury of ww1 must pa'o over Duncan’s journey to the nortHighlands for want of room, but on the evening «the sixth day after leaving my father’s house, he read*d the mansion-house of Glenellich, which stands inbttle beautiful woody strath, commanding a view «19tke Deu-Caledonian Sea, and part of the .Hebrides ;every avenue, tree, and rock, was yet familiar,to Dun¬can’s recollection; and the feelings of his sensibleI |.|# heart like his osrn. He had, without discovering.him¬self, learned from » peasant that his'father was stiltalive, but.that he had never overcome the loss of hisson, for whom, he lamented every day; that his wifei Ij and daughter lorded it over him, holding his pleasureat nought, and rendering his age extremely unhappy ;that they had expelled all his old farmers aad vassals,and introduced the lady’s vulgar presumptuous rela¬tions, who neither paid him rents, honour, nor obedi-••ce.Old Glenellich was taking his evening walk on theroad by which Duncan descended the starth to hi*dwelling. He was pondering on his own misfortunes,and did not even deign to lift his eves as the strangerannroached. but seemed conroin., the number of marks"r i  ►  », , which the horses* hoofs had made on the wiV. “ oCCde’en to you, Sir," said Duncan;—^the old man startedand stared him in the face, but with a look so un¬steady and harrassed, that he seemed incapable of dis¬tinguishing any lineament or feature of it. ‘"Goode’en,” said he, wiping his brow with his arm, and pas«-ing by.—What there was in the voice that struck himao forcibly it is hard to say.—Nature is powerful.—! Duncan could not think of ought to detain him ; andbeing desirous of seeing how matters went on aboutP the house, thought it best to remain some days incog.He went into the fore-kitchen, conversed freely withthe servants, and soon saw his stepmother and sisterappear. The former had all the insolence and ig¬norant pride of vulgarity raised to wealth and erai-' nence; the other seemed naturally of an amiabledisposition, but was entirely ruled by her mother,who taught her to disdain her father, all his relations,and whomsoever he lovsd. On that same evening hecame into the kitchen, where she then was chattingPJeaWith Duncan, to vbom #he- accrued Rttacfc^d at fff aighu ^Leay, wj dear,” said he, “ did you e^e t v' apectaclee ?’* “ Yee," raid «he, “ I think 1 saw th v•n yeur nose to-day at breakfast." '‘Veil, feu i*feave >06t them since,” said he. “ You may take ithe next you find then, Sir,” said she.—The serva: rlaughed. ’* 1 might well have known what infdrntion I w ould get of you,” said he, regretfulh. v H■can \ ou speak in such a style to your father, idear lady?" saidr Duncan.—“ If I were he I vfoiplace you where you should learn beUer mamj'dTs.It ill becomes- so pretty a young lady to 'addv'elsold father thus.” “ He !” said she, *• who minds Rit |He’s a dotard, an did whining, 'complaining; supanuat'ed beieg-, wbrse titan a child.” “ But cotis:his years,” stiid Duncan-; ‘‘and besides, he tV.ay iftmetwith crossesi.ttd los’sfessiifiicient to sotTr thettnipnt a yotmt'er : ^ «tr civ,,old at all evetits miv’nlr-veror.Ce, dot never ddSpVe your fatherip-tfy'now jdiited thorn’'. ‘ Y.Ou have, ^et heard'utliingj i young',man,’hawint,';01” s^cl’tlii'-old lah*d^-y-ifyou sa’neiiViiiL's Wi.ung'.—vtiv 1 bavo"hslosses indeen‘s Y<.'u‘ i'd.vVi'}’ said .nls1 spouse ;“ fv'o''; you ticvep hau ‘a’ny •’lofeefe.' that did noj.” in! tend' turn out a vast'V/iavril.”—' l)o yotf then cou:the loss ofhe-—rAst have yd'irn'orgot a jmyter in their room"’ returned she; “ Uie due' wifi mon woulti liave c|oni, j 1 J ,. ^va^t profiti ibss- oY a lovii g* w’fe arul a./on in>linng V’ ^i\aiH have vou nut got a UiVmg wire' and a tVaug'waste jour'fortune as .1 nrsitiigal >-t;aid Ihe other wil^talce.-ciire of both youand that, wheyou can no longer, do eitaer--tAe loss of your son h"'deed ! it.w'tfs fh,e’’greaiest’. bl^sV.jnify’,W .could luvreceived I?,‘M):VsfyeIine v. onian,” saiw nci,; “but Ileang woman, _ ]qven ipay yet r. store that spn to- protectgtay hairs of l;is old father, and lay his heain an honoured gftiv .” Tlty old man’s spin■were quite gone.—r^.be cric<| like a child,kis lady mimicked" turn---and at this, his dauig*21ter and the servants raised a faugh. “ Inhumaawretches,” said Duncan, starting up, and pushing themitaside, ** thus to mock the feelings of an old man, eve»iMthough he were not the lord and master of youstall: but take notice-the individual among you allthat dares to offer such another insult to hhn, I’llroast on that fire.” The .old man clung to h.*'., and.looked him ruefully in the face. “ You impudent,beggarly vagabond 1' said the lady, “ do you k>.owto whom you speak ? ••servants turn that wretch outof the house, and hunt him with ail the dogs in thekennel.” “ Softly* softly, good lady, ’ said Dun-tan “take care that I do not turt) you out of thelouse.”—“ Alas ! good youth" said the old laird,''‘‘you little know what you are about; for mercy *itake forbear ; you are brewing vengeance both for’Vourself and me.” “ Fear not,” said Duncan, “ I willi irotect you with my life.” “ Pray, may 1 ask yonifrhat is your name ?’said the old man still lookingiearnestly at him—“.That you may,” replied Duncan,ri'* no man has so good a right to ask any thing of meis you have- -I am Duncan Campbell, your own sou."V* M-m m-my son !'' exclaimed the old man, and sunk;iiack on a seat with a convulsive moan. Duncan|j»eld him in his arms --he spur, recovered, and’taskedIttnany incoherent questions—looked at the two mole*.mi his right leg—kissed him, and then wept on hie■ijiosom for joy. “ O God of heaven,” said he, “ it iai»ng since I could thank thee heartily for any thing -thow I do thank thee indeed, for I have found my son (ijny dear and only son!” ,jj Contrary to what might have been expected, Dun-mb's pretty only sister Alexia rejoiced most of adn his discovery. She was almost wild with joy at-ilndinj such a brother—The old lady, her mother,(ras said to have wept bitterly in private, but k«owmg.bat Duncan would be her master, she behaveQ tr“lim with civility and reaped. Every thing was e'eci*Jfitted to bis management, e-ad he foo.i c'.>;evar«lt22that besides a good clear estate, his father had person, »funds to a great amount. The halls and cottages of Glen tiellich were filled with feasting, joy, and gladness.It was not so at my father’s house. Misfortuc iseldom come singly. Scarcely had our feelings ove; :come the shock which they received by the loss»ur beloved Duncan, when a more terrible mi-fortur aovertook us. My father by the monstrous ingratUide of a friend whom he trusted, lost at once tigreater part of his hard-earned fortune. The bio ,:came unexpectedly, and distracted his personal affai tto such a degree, that an arrangement seemed amost totally impracticable. He struggled on wilsecurities for several months; but perceiving that hiwas drawing his real friends into danger, by thesigning of bonds which he might never be able to ndeem, he lost heart entirely, and yielded to the torent. Mary’s mind seemed to gain fresh energy eveiday. The activity and diligence which she evinc*in managing the affairs of the farm, and even in giing advice with regard to other matters, is quite itcredible ;—often have I thought what a treasure th.inestimable girl would have been to an industriotman whom she loved. All our efforts availed mthine-; my father received letters ofhorning on bills la large amount, and wc^expected every day that fwould he taken from us and dragged to a prison.We were all sitting in out; little room one day, corl'suiting what was best to be done—we could decid|upon nothing, for our case was desperate—we wen!ftillen into a kind of stupor, but the window being uj1a sight appeared that quickly thrilled every heaiwith the keenest sensations of anguish. Two me*ame riding sharply up by the back of the old schothouse. “ Yonder are the officers of justice nowsaid my mother, “ what shall we do ?" We hurrito the window, and all of ue soon discerned th«|they were uo other than some attorney, accompani23!>y a sheriff*s officer. My mother entreated of myfather to.escape and hide himself until this first stormtsas over-blown, but he.would in nowise consent, assur¬ing us that he hadj done nothing of which he was ashana-jjsd, and was determined to meet every one face to face,rand let them do their worst; so finding all our entreatiesvain, we could do nothing but sit down and weep.lAt length we heard the noice of their horses at thedoor. ,“You had better take the men's horsesJames,” said my father, “ as there is no other man gthand.” “ We will stay till they rap, if you please,”naid f. The cautious officer did not however rap,jut afraid lest his debtor should make his escape,,ie jumped lightly from his horse, and hasted into thefiouse. When we heard him open the outer door,:tnd his footsteps approaching along the entry, ourHearts fainted within us—he opened the door andhepped into the room—it wras Duncan ! our owndearly beloved Duncan. The women uttered an in¬voluntary scream of surprise, but my father ran andgot hold of one hand and I of the other—my mothertoo, soon had him in her arms, but our embrace was*short; for his eyes fixed on Mary, who stood trem¬bling with joy and wonder in a corner of the room,ilchanging her colour every moment—he snatched herijup in his arms and kissed her lips, and ere ever she( was aware, her arms had encircled his neck. “ Otmy dear Mary,” said he, “ my heart has been ill atpease since I left you, but I durst not then tell you aiWord of my mind, for I little knew how I was to findSaffairs in the place where I was going; but ah ! y««Mlittle elusive rogue, you owe me another for the one;»you cheated me out of then so saying, he pressedthis lips again to her cheek, and then led her to a seat,(Duncan then recounted all his adventures to us, with'every circumstance of his good fortune—our heart*were uplifted almost past bearing—all our care* aodjeorrews we* now forgotten, and ye were once more24(b« happiest little gronp that ever perhaps sat tg«ther. Before the cloth was laid for dinner, Maran out to put on her white gown, and comb her yek>w hair, but was surprised at meeting with a smafoung gentleman in the kitchen, with a scarlet neciion his coat, and a gold-laced hat. Mary, havir 'sever seen so fine a gentleman, maue him a locourtesy, and offered to conduct him to the room Ihut he smiled, and told her he was the squire’s seivant. We had all of us forgot to ask for the gentli iman that came with Duncan.Duncan and Mary walked for two hours in tlgarden that evening -we did not know what passe ibetween them, but the next day he asked her fmarriage of my parents, and never will I forget tftsupreme happiness and gratitude that beamed ievery face on that happy occasion. I'need not te?»y readers that my father's affairs were soon retries!ed, or that I accompanied my dear .Mary a bride ttbe Highlands, and had the satisfaction of salutiah{£ as Mrs. Campbell, and Lady of Glenellichs