THE5 GOLDEN DREAMER;3 DREAMS REALIZED,2 CONTAININOTHE INTERPRETATIONnvV »&r~-K5gGLASGOW:>y , IJ?ITIWTKD FOR TUB EOOJCSKU.En*_^ - rs.CDimrvQ shtIHBOr' GOLDEN DREAMER. J•TN—=►000=—/lixu/air. MAaaaTo dream of the atmosphere, has a variety of iiterpretatious, and depends entirely on the differetappearances it has. If you dream the sky is dealof a fine blue, calm and serene> then it is a gooomen; you will he successful in your enterprisesif you are soliciting any place of preferment, you wisurely obtain it,—if you are in love, you will sureljflarry the object of your affections,—have youaw-suit P you will gain it,—are you in trade ? iwill flourish and be profitable,—are you a farmer~ood crops will attend you, your cattle will increaseyour pigs and poultry, will be abundant, your connmodities will fetch a good price at the market,—you are married ? you will have many children, ant>they will be dutiful and do well—are you about toundertake a journey ? it will answer your utmostexpectations—are you going to sea? you will hav»a pleasant and prosperous voyage—are you in debt;!you will speedily be enabled to extricate yourself fronit,—are you in prison ? you will shortly be set aliberty. To dream that it is full of thick, darknd heavy donds, is an unfavourable token,—yoiwill fell sick, and perhaps dja,—disappointments wilattend your business.Adultery. To dream of the committing of thhmaty forebodes great troubles and misfortunes’,—&'you are in love, you will certainly fail in marryingthe object of your wishes,—if you have a law-suit,it will certainly go against you, by the treachery ofthose who pretend to be your friends,—if you areiin business some heavy loss will happen to youSuch a dream announces that you are in great dangeibf losing your liberty,—and if you are about tcundertake a voyage to sea, omit it for the presentfor you will hever reach the destined port. T»dream you are tempted to commit this crime, ancthat you resist it, it is a happy omen,—every thingmill flourish with you,—be sure it is a good time to[begin trade after such a dream,—if you have a law-iisuit, all will go on in your favour, with credit toyourself, and confusion to your opponents,—if you‘‘ire about to undertake a long journey, it will bevdeasant and successful to your object,—if you arei^oing to sea, you will have an agreeable voyage, fine■ veather and a quick arrival at the port of destina-n.ion,—if you are in love, press the object of yourivishes, for they will be gratified.Apparel. Nothing more demonstrates tlie eventsthat are about to happen you, than dreaming of:wearing apparel, but almost every colour has adifferent interpretation, and much depends on itsjiippearing new or old, its fitting you, or being toeipig or too little. We shall hear explain them acHording to their different significations, To dream}<rpu are dressed in white, is a sure token of success;n the first object you undertake, and that you willbe successful in love, and that your sweetheart is of3,1 good temper and amiable disposition. To dream'tou are dressed in green, Senates that you are aboutid undertake a journey to your advantage, and thatT’wur gweolhwrt prefers you to all other lovers. Todream yon are dressed in black, is an unlucky omen Isome quarrel is about to happen between you and Jfriend or relation ; sickness is about to attend yoi'Jand your family; death will deprive you of soimijnear friend or relation ; law-suits will 'perplex anoiharass you if you undertake a journey, it will bdurtsiiecessful, and contribute much to injure you ahealth and fortune—if you are in love, it denote*that your sweetheart is very unhappy, and that sick ’lness will attend her,—If you are a farmer, you wilthe cheated hy some knave, and your crops will tun’:,out indifferent; the murrian will attack your cattle,||and some, dreadful accident will happen by the ovemiturn of 0110 of your waggons,—if you are in business, isome one will arrest you, and you will have greanjdifficulty in settling the matter. To dream you aredressed in blue, denotes happiness, you will shortlybe invited to some banquet or merry making, whenyou will make some friends and be very happy, if youonly avoid quarreling, which some enemy to your wel¬fare will endeavour to excite you to do,—your sweet¬heart is hy this colour denoted to he very faithful toyou, and will make you very happy and comfortable;,yon will have many children, chiefly hoys, who will:.'mK w«Itijrn out honest and good,—if you are in trade you \prosper. If you dream you are dressed in scarlet^you are thereby warned of some very heavy calamity*and a severe fit of illness—your sweetheart is by itnipmnced to you to be of a turbulent disposition,.nuch inclined to dispute about trifles, and liable tomake you very unhappy,—your children will beshcrt-lived and of very unhappy tempers, much in¬clined tQ.be very sicjtly,—it surely denotes a quarrelan«[Jas&.afi friends. To dream you are drQs^<f;Hljyellow, is lucky than otherwise, your sweet-5 • —heart hy it appears to he very jealous of yon, andgreat pains will be requisite to prevent your separ¬ating—if you are married, keep a good look out,for some is about to alienate the affections of yourpartner—in trade it promises prosperity; but somemne will cheat you of a trifle not of much conserquence—if you are a farmer, you will have an(abundant crop—if you undertake a voyage by sea,iyou will be greatly the gainer by it; and if yoniexpect any place of preferment, after much troubleiyou will attain it. To dream you are dressed inirrimson, denotes that the dreamer will live to a goodjlold age, and will be neither fortunate or unfortunatethrough life : you are about to experience some very(pleasant news from a distant quarter, and from thoselyou thought dead. Your sweetheart will he obliged{to leave you hut will continue faithful to you—ifiyou are in trade, you will experience some loss byperson that you had great confidence in, hut you will,tat nearly the same time, get a job that will amplymake you amends—it denotes a small dispute be-ntween a landlord and his tenant, which will be set->tled amicable to the advantage of the latter. To'(dream you are dressed in a variety of colours, de-i ot.es a variety of fortunes are about to attend you ;ildd friends will desert you, new ones will supply: heir place—if you are in love, a quarrel tvill take(place between you and your sweetheart, which willlifter much uneasiness to both parties, be adjusteddfjy friends—be cautious in what you do for Somei..nhe, for many traps will be laid to ensnare you,ijbut on no account trust yourself on the water; re¬lations will shortly die, and if you have any child-In.Hr, sickness will attend them—if you are sick atjili uiio of the dream, it denotes a,\.-rTV. .nH speedyrecovery. To dream you are fashion,-ithj fires?} Iand in good company, is very good for the dream-sr; he will rise considerably above his present cun- •dition-—your sweetheart will prefer you aboveothers, and be very good tempered; whatever y-oijundertake will have a prosperous issue, and someunexpected news of an agreeable nature will reachyou-—expect to see a long absent friend rbturn ingood circumstances ; but avoid having a dispute |with any one, for it will go against you and do rharm, particularly ifirit be with your sweetheart. JTo dream yod are dressed shalddly, that your clothesare ragged and torn, is a bad omen.Asses. To dream you are riding on an ass, isthe foreruner of some foolish quarrel in which youwill he much in the wrong, and condemned by yourfriends—if yon are in love, it denotes that somemisunderstanding will happen between you andyonr sweetheart, in which you will be much in fault—if you are in business, it foretels that you willmake some foolish bargain. To dream you aredriving an ass, denotes that you will fall into sometrouble, of which you will get the better, and thatyou will be relieved from present embarrassments,—if you are in love, it denotes that some quarrelwill take place betwixt yonr sweetheart and your¬self, which will soon be made up again to your ad-. vantage. To dream an ass runs after yOn, denotes 1that some slander will he raised against you by somefoolish person, who will become themselves the vic¬tims of the scandal raised- against you.Acquaintance. To dream you quarrel or fightwith an acquaintance, it is an unlucky omen, itforebodes a division among your own family, muchto the inbi1'’- —3 v»ejudKse of the dreamer—if you7ri 'w love, yonr Tnlstress will prove unfaithful, andrurey eome other man that she has told you sheijist hates,—if yuu are in business, some heavy loss11 befall you 'you will disagree with some of yourk friends on the most trival matters, which vmld in au open rupture,—if you are a farmer, oxcf, a bad cron, the murrain amongst yeuf| cattle ;at your pigs and poultry will fail and not mt ch^l0d prices,—if you have a lawsuit, depend thatiur attorney will neglect you, that your witnessesill he Lardy and backward, and that finally youill lose your cause. Do hot for sometime under-ke a journey hy land, or a voyage by sea ; enterr the present into no new undertaking, for youfill he unsuccessful; quit, if you can, your presentmce of residence; and, above all, avoid lending, oney, for you will surely lose it together with thedendship of those to whom you lend it. If youream that you are with an acquaintance at someilace of public amusement, you may expect soon to r'e called from home on business of importance.j Dondnj. To dream you are dancing at a hall,[cake, or entertainment, fortels that you will shortlyoceive some joyful news from an absent friend,ind that you are about to inherit_ some unexpectedtgacy ; it fortels success and happiness in love ; thatHour sweetheart is kind and true, and will makeriou very happy in marriage; to the sailor, it de¬motes a pleasant and successful voyage ; increase ofiihildren to married persons and of business to thosen trade.Devil. To dream of this professed enemy to tluman race, denotes that many dangers will threa tenC/ou, all of which you will overcome ; it iortels of aawsuit, in which your adversary will endeavoursecretly to undermine you, nevertheless you wi!get the better of him, and put him to shame ; if yonare in love, it forebodes that some is endeavouring]to aleniate the affections of your sweetheart, but willbe unsuccessful; to the tradesman it denotes agoortdeal of business, attended with many troubles; fc*the poor it denotes good employment; and to tlw<sailor, a wife with a great sum of money.Ventli. To dream you see this grim lookingbundle of bones, denotes happiness and long life sand you wdll be either speedily married yourself,)or else assist at a wedding. To dream that you are"dead, also denotes' a speedy marriage, and that youiwill be successful in all ybur undertakings ; to those!that are married it fbrtels young children, and that,they will he dutiful, and give you great comfort. *To dream you seb another peiison dead, denotes ill!sage from frierids; if you are in love, your sweet¬heart will prove false ; if you are a farmer, you willlose money by hones, and be way-laid as you returnfrom market.Dofjs. To dream of these domestic and faithful ’animals, has very different significations, according ;to the manner in which you see them,-—if theyfawn and fondle upon you, then it is a lucky omen,'' ,if you have had a quarrel with a friend or sweetheart,"it will he reconciled to your advantage; if you aren love, your sweetheart will marry you, and ren-lei* you very happy; it dencties health, riches andhonour: if they are harking and sriarling at you,hen depend that enemies are secretly endeavouringto destroy your 'f-ejiufiitioin and happiness; if youare in love, be careful of your present sweetheart ;if y'ou marry ffffh (ff'hbry yon will be1 tmhappy andpoor; if vou dream iboy bite yon, then it is a cer-9ain prognostic that you will experience some loss:f you are in love, your sweetheart will deceive you,nul make you very unhappy.Drowning. To dream you are drowning, or thatiron see another drowned or drowning, portendsi»ood to the dreamer, and denotes that he will escapemany difficulties, settle near his native place, marry,uave children, and become happy and rich:, to the(over it denotes that your sweetheart is good tem-oered and inclined to marry you. If you are a sailort fortels a favourable and a pleasant voyage,j' Eating. To dream you are eating, is a veryunfavourable omen; it portends disunion amongJrour family, losses in trade and disappointment inmve—storms and shipwreck by sea. To dream youwee others eating, is of a contrary tendency, andfor tel s success in all your present enterprises; ifWon marry the present obiect of your affections, that(mu will grow rich, he happy, and have dutifulchildren.Eyes. To dream you lose your eyes is a very'unfavourable omen ; it denotes decay of circumstan¬ces, loss of friends, death of relations, and miscar¬riage in love—If a woman with child dreams of it,t denotes that the child in her womb will he verymnliappy, and before it arrives at years of maturity,ose its liberty.Feasting. To dream you are at a feast, denote*iliat you will meet with many disappointments,particularly in the thing which you are most anxi-jus about: in love it forbodes much uneasinessjetween sweethearts; and to them who are mar¬led, it foretels undutiful children, with many heavy•osses.Fall. To dream you fall from any high place10or from a tree, denotes loss of place and goods—i*-you are in love, it surely indicates that you willbnever marry the present object of your affections a£o the tradesman it denotes decline of business nmd to the sailor storms and shipwreck.Fighting. To dream you are fighting, denote;)to the lover that you will lose the object of youraffections through a foolish quarrel r it also forebode;?much opposition to your wishes, with loss of char-uacter and property. After such a dream I wouldadvise the dreamer to quit his present sitwationabecause such a dream indicates that you will no:|prosper in it; to the sailor it denotes storms auoshipwreck, with disappointment in love.Fire. To dream of the subtile elements, denotedhealth and happiness to the lover, marriage will,the object of your affections, and many children : |also denotes that you will bo very angry with somaone on a trifling occasion. To dream you see burn-iing lights descending, as it were from heaven, is tvery bad sign indeed; it portends some dreadful:accident to the dreamer, such as being hanged, losr:ing your head, having your brains dashed out,;breaking your legs, getting into prison, or etherstrange accidents.Flying. To dream you are flying, is a very ex¬cellent omen; it fortels elevation of fortune, that)you will arrive at dignity in the state, and be hap^py. If yon are in love, your sweetheart will be*true to you, and if you marry you will have manychildren.Fortune. To dream you make a sudden fortune,,is a very bad omen; to the tradesman it denotes1losses in trade, quarreling with his creditors, andithe loss of liberty ; to the lover it denotes that yourIIi sweetheart does not return your lore ; to tha tailorit indicates storms and shipwrecks,i Friend. To dream you see a friend dead, he-! tokens hasty news, of a joyous nature; if you ar«in love, it fortels a speedy marriage with the ol>-t ject of your affections.! Fruit. To dream of fruit, has a different interjtpretation, according to what the fruit is that you: dream of. Apples he token long life and success;fh hoy to a woman with child) cheerfulness in you*rsweetheart, and riches hy trade.—Cherries indicate[jdisappointment in love, vexation in the marriage! state, and slight in love.—Figs.are the. forerunnersIpf prosperity and happiness^—to the lover theyJ denote the accomplishment,of your wishes,—to thei tradesman, increase of trade,—they are also indica¬tive of a legacy.—Gooseberries indicate manychildren, chiefly sons, and an accomplishment pi, your present pursuits;—to the sailor they declare: dangers in his next voyage,—to the maiden a roy-: ing husband ; and to the man a rakish wife.—I N uls if you see clusters of them, denote riches andI happiness, to the lover success aud a good temperedi sweetheart—if you are gathering of them, it is noti a good omen, for you will pursue ^ * ♦ hj * ftf * ;ie.r that! will not turn out to your advantage ; if' you cracki them, the person who courts you, or to whom youf pay your addresses, will treat you with indifference,i and he very unfaitliful.—Oranges are very hadi pmens they forebode loss of goods and reputation,attacks from thieves, wounds, and fickleness in thaobject of your afiections.—Pears prefigure elevationin life, accumulation of riches and honour, successin undertakings, and constancy in love. If a wo¬man with •hild dreams of them, she will h»ve a13gprl who will marry one far above her raak before^she is seventeen.—Strawberries denote to womeirrwith child a good time, and a boy; to a maiden!speedy marriage with a man who will become rich,!and make her happy ; to a youth, they denote that!his wife will be sweet tempered, and bring kimrmany children, all boys; they foretel riches to the :tradesman and the sailor.Gallows. To dream of the gallows is a mostfortunate omen; it shews that the dreamer willfbecome rich, and arrive at great honours; to the-lover it shows the consummation of his most san¬guine wishes; for a woman with child to dream ofthe gallows, signifies that she is pregnant of a son,have a good time, and that the fruit of her wombwill become very rich.Gifts. To dream you have any thing given toyou, is a sign that some good is about to happen toyou ; it also denotes that a speedy marriage will Itake place betwixt you and your sweetheart.Grave. To dream you see a grave, fortels sick¬ness and disappointment,—if you are in love, dependyou will never marry your present sweetheart; ifyou go into the grave, it shews you will experiencea loss of property, and that false friends will defameyou,—if you come out of the grave, it denotes Suc¬cess in your undertakings, that you will rise in theworld and become very rich; and if you are in love,that you will speedily marry your sweetheart,—iryou take another out of the grave, you will be themeans of saving the life of a person, who will be avery great friend to ybu, and receive some unexpect¬ed legacy.Hanged. To dream you see people hanged, orthat you are going to be hanged yourself, denotes€18that yon will risa above yonr present condition byi marriage. afnwwB—..'.sshi-voa »> »H»Hi/Is. To dream of travelling over steep bills,; shews that you will encounter many difficulties,i and enter upon some arduous undertaking: if youi descend the hill hastily, you will get the better ofi all your difficulties and enemies, and become rich ;;■ to the lover it shews rivals, who will give great un¬it easiness.i Housa. To dream of building a house, is a veryI favourable omen; if you are in trade it denotesl> success—if in love, that vtmr sweetheart is good! tempered and faithful, and will make you very hap-!• -py. To dream your bouse is burnt down, denotes: much trouble and many difficulties, with the loss of[ goods and reputation. To dream you see yourhouse on fire, foretels hasty news, and that you willI lose a near relation. 2;* * ftHuntinfj. To dream you are hunting a fox, andthat he is killed, shews much trouble through thepretensions of false friends, but that you will discoverthem, and overcome all their machinations—if youare hunting a hare, it is indicative of had success:you will be disappointed in your favourite object,be what it may—hunting a stag, if he is caughtalive, denotes good to the dreamer, and that he willhe successful in all his present undertakings.Tveyj. To dream of keys, is favourable to aperson in trade—and to a sailor tliey denote somegift, and the dreamer will become rich. To dreamyou lose a key, foreshows anger, and that you willlose a friend. To dream of finding a key, denotesan addition to your estate. If you are married,:>.jtalso foretels the birth of a child: if you givei(ano¬ther the key, yon will be speedily married; .in letsU4keys betoken' faithfulness, and a good tempered!sweetheart. :I:k|Knives. To dream of knives is a very unprc-'u'.pitious omen ; it betokens lawsuits, poverty, dis-sgrace, strife, and a general failure in the pursuit ofjyour projects ; in love it denotes a happy marriage*\yiih the object of your affections, and that you will,become, by industry, rich, and settle your children!happy. |Letters. To dream of receiving letters, is de-nonstrative of your being beloved by a person olhe opposite sex, who is very much :your friend,and will do all in their power to render you happy.To dream of writing, letters, shews success in enter¬prises, and that you will receive some very pleasantnows. |Light. To dream you see a great light ishappy presage, it denotes that you will attain togreat honours and become very rich,— in love, itshews a sweetheart of an amiable disposition,, thatyou will marry well, have children, and he veryhappy,—if the light disappears all of a sudden, itbetokens a great change in your present situation,much for the worse, it portends imprisonment, andloss of goods, with unexpected misfortunesiLinen. To dream you are dressed in clean linen,denotes that you will shortly receive some gladtidings,—that your sweetheart is faithful, and willmarry you,—that you will he successful in all yourpresent undertakings, and that you will receive ahandsome present from an agreeable youth,—if yourlinen is chequered you will get a legacy from somefriend, and marry a very industrious person,—if itis dirty, then it denotes poverty, a prison, and disap¬pointment in lova, with the loss of something valuable.Marriage. To dream you are married, is om¬inous of death, and very unfavourable to the dream¬er; it denotes poverty, a prison, and misfortunes.To dream you assist at a wedding is the forerunnerof some pleasant news, and great success. To! dream of lying with your newly married husbandii or wife, threatens danger or sudden misfortunes,:: and also that you will lose a part of your property,ft To the sailor it argues storms and shipwrecks, witha narrow escape from death. . u ■Milh. To dream you are selling milk, denotes| that you will he crossed in love, that you wijl. he; unsuccessful in trade. To dream you are drinking| of milk, is the foreruner of joyful news and great< success; if you are giving milk away, it shews you» will be successful in love, and marry happily, have:i children, and do very well. To see milk flowing1 from the breast cf a woman, denotes, success in:t trade; and in love, that you will have many chil-• dren, and that they will become rich by the indus¬try of their parents.! - Mother. To dream you see your mother, is acertain prognostic of some agreeable adventurebeing about to happen to you, and that you willhear from a friend at a distance. To dream yousee your mother dead, forebodes trouble and adver¬sity, and that you will become very poor.Music. To dream you hear delicious music, isvery favourable omen; it denotes joyful news fromlong absent friend,—to married people, it denotessweet tempered children,—in love it shews thatyour sweetheart is very fond of you, is good tem¬pered, sincere and constant. Rough and discor¬dant music foretels trouble, vexation, and disap¬pointment.10Nails. To Ir^nm your nails are growing long jis very good, and denotes riches, prosperity, amiHappiness, great, success in love, a good indnstri-ons n iisoana or wife, with dutiful children,—it ;dsdfortels that yon will suddenly receive a sum of moneythat will be of great use to you.Nightingale. To dream of this pretty warbler.,is the forerunner of joyful news, great success inbusiness, of plentiful crops, and of a sweet tem¬pered lover. For a married woman to dream of anighfingale, shews that she will have children whowill be great singers.Old (Voninn. For a man to dream he is court¬ing an old woman, and that $he returns his love,is a very fortunate omen; It prefigures success inworldly concerns,—rthat he will marry a beautifulyouiig woman, have lovely children, and be veryhappy. ^ , •'* ; . d{Onions. To dream of this useful vegetable, denotes a mixture of good and had luck,—if you areeating them, you will receive some money, recoversome lost or stolen things, or discover some hiddentreasure ; your sweetheart will be faithful, hut of across temper,—it also denotes attack from thieves,ami a failure of crops,—it shews that you will lieengaged in some disagreeable quarrel, perhaps withyour own finally,'—if you are throwing onions away,it is the forerunner of mischief and quarrels,—if youare in love, you will fall out with your sweetheart,-—if you are in trade, you will quarrel with yourcustomers and servants,—if you are gathering-,onions, it betokens the recovery of some sick personof your family,-—the .receipt of some unexpectednews of a joyful kind, and a speedy removal fromyour present situation.IfOven. To dream you see an oven, fortels thatyou are about to be separated from your family by: changing your present residence it shews yon ani attack by thieves in some bye place, and also (hatj your sweetheart is of a roving disposition, littlelikely to make you happy.' ' Oysters. To dream yon are eating oysters, is \aivery favourable omen; if you are in trade, your: business will encrease very fast, and you will be-■ come rich ; if yon are a farmer, you will have plen-. tiful crops ; if you are married, your wife of hiis-t band will be very fond of you, and you will havei many children. For a maid to dream of eatingoysters, shews that she will be quickly married to nyoung man who will thrive much by industry, andhave many children by her ; to a man, it denotesthat he will marry a real virgin, who will he very:fond of him, and bring him many children.Palm. To dream you are gathering of palm,I denotes plenty, riches and success in undertakings,and is a very good omen indeed '; to a marriedwoman, it is a certain token of her hearing children ;to a maid it fortels a sudden marriage with thej youth she loves, that she will have many childreni by him and that she will live very happy in flipi married state. .Pit. To dream of falling into a deep pit, Showsthat some very heavy misfortune is about to attendyou, that your sweetheart is false, and prefersanother; to a sailor it forebodes some sad disasterat the next port you touch at. To dream von Itfein a pit, and that you climb out of it without inu'Chtrouble, foreshows that you will havxi many wienfiW,i and experience much trouble, ■ but •that voti- Wdl| overcome them, and surmount your dillicultios,marry well ami 1 ccoma rich; to a fgilor, it denotesthat, lie will experience shipwreck, ami he east on afupeigu shore, where he will lie hospitably received,fall in love, marry a. rich, and handsome wife, quitthe sca; and live at ease on the shore,.Pictures. To dream you are looking at beaiit'-ful pictures, foreshows that you will he allured hjfalse appearances into some unprofitable concern,that you will waste your time on some idle project,and that you will always he in pursuit of happinesswithout attaining it, in love it denotes great plea¬sure: in the enjoyment of the beloved olqect, itpromises a handsome wife, a good husband, andbeautiful children.Paper. To dream of paper, is a good omen ; ifit is quite clean, you will be very successful inyour undertakings, marry the person you love,have good and dutiful children, and be very happyif it is dirty and scribbled upon, then it shews tem¬porary want, and some unpleasant altercation; ifit is plainly written, you will receive hasty news ofa good nature, make an advantageous bargain, andobtain some money by a legacy ; if it appears rum¬pled and, carelessly folded up, it shews that some diffi¬culties will occur which will give you much pain ;if it is neatly folded, you will obtain your favouritedish, be what it may.Peacock* To dream of seeing this beautiful hius a very good omen; it denotes great success intrade; to a man a very beautiful wife, much riches,and a good place; to a maid a good and rich hus¬band ; to a widow, that she will be courted by onewho will tell her many tine tales, without beingsincere; it also denotes great prosperity by sea,and a handsome wife in a distant part19Pigeons. To dream you see pigeons flying, im-' ports hasty news of a pleasant nature, and greatsuccess in undertakings; they are very favourableto lovers, as they announce constancy in your sweet¬heart, hut also, that the person yon love will he ah-i sent from j'ou a long while on a journey ; if your!ilover is at sea, they' denote that he has a pleasantivoyage> continues faithful, and will return rich.! ' Plays. To dream you are at a play, is theforerunner of great good luck; it betokens greathappiness in the marriage state, and very greatsuccess in business,;, to a maid it shews spebefyIpnarriage with a young man, who will be Very sue-Bcessfnl in business, and acquire riches and honoursbto make her very happy.Purse. To dream of finding a purse, is a veryi.avourahle omen; it denotes great happiness atid11unlooked-for prosperity ; in love it is the sure tokfen •jof a speedy marriage, and the being dearly belovedi by the object of your affections. To dream you losei'your purse, shews the loss of a friend; in other[ respects it denotes some pleasant adventure is about vlito happen.to you, hy which you will he the ginHUrf:ito the sailor it denotes the loss of his siVeOthr ::r1 while at'Sba.fitting. To dream you are running a rn< u, isi a token of good, presages ‘much success in life, andf that'ydu will speedily hear some very joyful newsli in love,: it denotes that you will conquer all you. ,:■ rivals, and he very happy in the union with the ob-\ ject of-jmnr affections. To dream you are riding ah race, sliews disappointment and anger, bad successi in trade and in love; to a married woman, it de-i notes the loss of her husband’s affections, and thather children will bo in trouble.20Rainbow. To dream you see a rainbow, denoten!great travelling and change of fortune ; it also fore jtels sudden news of a very agreeable nature; iannounces that your sweetheart is of a very goofftemper, and constant, and that you will be verjihappy in marriage: have great success in bushiestthrough the means of trading with foreign parts.Ravens. To dream you see a raven, is a veryunfavourable token, it denotes mischief and ad¬versity; in love, it shows falsehood, and to themarried they forebode much mischief through theiadultery of your conjugal partner ; to the sailorlthey betoken shipwreck, and much distress on aforeign shore.Riding. To dream you are riding, if it he witha horse, is very unfortunate; expect to he crossedin love; if you are in trade, business will decay,and you will be very near bankruptcy; if you area sailor it denotes perfidy in you’- sweetheart, andloose conduct with one of your shipmatbs.; but ifit be with him, then expect the reverse oi thesethings will happen, and that you will obtain a sumof money by some speculation of which you havebut an indifferent opinion.Rods. To dream you are whipt with rods, de¬notes that you will meet with a perfidious friend,who will go very near to ruin you ; it also betokensyou being shortly at a merry-making, where yonmust he careful of quarreling; if you do, it willturn out to your disadvantage: in love it denotesyour sweetheart to he of a fickle disposition, andlittle calculated to make you happy.River. To dream you see a flowing river andthat .(he waters are .. smooth and clear, presageshappiness and success in life; to the lover it shows21constancy and affection in the object of your love,and that if you marry, you will pass a very happyand contented life, have fine children, mostly girls,v, ho will be very beautiful; to the tradesman andfarmer, it shows prosperity and gain ; to the sailor,that his sweetheart will he kind and constant, andI that his next voyage will he lucrative and pleasant.If the water appears disturbed and muddy, or hasa yellow tinge, then it denotes that you will acquireconsiderable riches ; if you have a lawsuit, such a1 dream surely foretels that you will gain your cause.Sheep. To dream you see a flock of sheep■feeding, is a very favourable omen ; it denotes suo■ cess in life; to the lover it indicates your sweet-- heart to be faithful, of an amiable temper, and: inclined to marry you ; in the married state, it de¬notes children, who will be very happy, becomerich, and be great comforts in the evening of life;to the tradesman, it fortels increase of business,and accumulation of wealth, but also forewarnshim that he has a servant unworthy of his confi¬dence ; to the sailor nothing can be a greater signi of good luck, his next voyage will be pleasant andi lucrative, and his sweetheart kind and true.To dream you see them dispersing, and runningaway from yrou, shows that pretended friends areendeavouring to do you an injury, and that yourchildren will meet with persecution and greattroubles ; in love, such a dream shows your sweet¬heart to he fickle, and little calculated to makeyou happy. To dream you see sheep shearing, isindicative of loss of property, and the affections otthe person you love, also your liberty. To dreamyou are shearing them yourself, shows that you willgain an advantage over some person who meant toharm you, arid that yon will gef. llie fjpuer of diffilfiulties, and marry tlie object of your affections.Spit. To dream you are in a kitchen turninsFa spit, is the forerunner of troubles and misforlrtunes; expect to he robbed, to lose your trade, t<i|become very poor, and that your friends will deser lryon : if your in love, it shows the object of ydintraffections tc be of a bad temper, lazy, and doomedto misfortunes and poverty.Starching. To dream you are starching of linen, •shows you will he married to an industrious per¬son, and that you will be successful in life, andijsave money; it also shows that you are about to;receive a letter, containing some pleasant news.Srjvirrcl. To dream of a squirrel, shows that:enemies are endeavouring to slander your reputa¬tion ; to the lover, it shows your sweetheart is ola bad temper, and much given to drinking; if youhave a lawsuit, it will surely be decided againstyou: if in trade, sharpers will endeavour to dcfraud you ; and you will quarrel with your principal creditor.Swimming. To dream you are swimming withvour head above the'water, denotes great successin your undertakings, whether they be love, trade,sea, or farming. To dream of swimming withyour head below the Svaher^ shows that you willexperience some great trorime. and'hear some 'verbunpleasant neWk'from' a jfe^'on" Voil'tlib’uglit dead'.In trade it shows lriss!of buslnfess, and thdt yotlhviflperhaps be imprisoned for debt; in love it denotesdisappointment in vour .wishes.h Swans. To dream of seeing swans denotes happi¬ness in the marriage statp; . and many children whoI will become rich and .Respectable in your old age.23«rith joy and happiness i to the lover, they denof^'sonstancy and affection in your sweetheart; in tradethey show success, but much vexation from the dis-. .closure of secrets.Tempests. To dream you are in a storm' ortempest, shows that you will after many difficulties,jflrrive at being very happy, that you will ^exjome-extremely yicli, and marry exceeding well. For alover to dream of being in a violent tempest, .ue»notes that you will have many formidable rivals,who after causing you a great deal of vexation:.and uneasiness, you will triumph over. It also.^forebodes you will receive good news from a long‘absent friend, who is abroad, and who will have.' overcome many hardships and extreme difficulties.Thunder and Lightning. To dream you headistinctly thunder, and see lightning, is a very goonomen; it denotes success in trade ; good crops to: the farmer; and a speedy and happy marriage toJ the lover. If you are soliciting a place, you will: obtain it; if you have a lawsuit, it will go in your1 favour: it also indicates speedy news from a far) distant country, intimating that a near relative has| obtained a very lucrative situation, in which he willhave an opportunity of doing his friends a greatdeal of good, nv .Trumpet. To dream that you hear the sound ofa trumpet is a bad omen, and denotes troubles andmisfortunes ; to the tradesman it presages the lossof business; the fanner bad crops ; to the loverinsincerity in the object of your affections.Trees. To dream you see trees in blossom, de¬notes a happy marriage with the present object ofyour affections, and many children, who will all doextremely well in life; to the tradesman it denote24success in business, and to the sailor pleasant andiilucrative voyages. To dream you are climbing'!trees, denotes that you will make a fortune, and:rise to honours and dignities in the state. To:dream you are cutting down trees, fortels heavy 'Ilosses by trade and by sea; and also the death of a tjnear relation, or most dear friend.IVatcr. To dream you are drinking water, de-,notes great trouble and adversity in trade, loss ofbusiness, and being arrested: to the lover it shews. :your sweetheart is false, prefers another, and willnever marry you.Wheat. To dream you see, or are walking in a l)field of wheat, is a very favourable omen ; anddenotes great prosperity and riches: in love, it an-gurs a completion of your most sanguine wishes,and foretels much happiness, with fine children,hen you marry ; if you have a lawsuit, you willgain it, and you will be successful in all your un¬dertakings.