!HISTORYOFSir William WallaceThe RenownedScottish CSi amjiioii*Containing: an Account of hi- Valliant Transnc-tions against the English, and his mournful tateat London, after he was betrayed into the hand*of his enemies ; how he was put to death, and hisbody quartered, and sent to various places.GLASGOW :PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS*,HISTORYOb'SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.It was in times of the deepest calamity, whenScotland as it were was overwhelmed with afflic¬tion, and sinking into the deepest despair, by thebase conduct of an ignominious monarch, thatScotland was betrayed into the hands of the Kingof England, w ho put Scotland in a state of cruel¬ty and oppresion, and^ent blood and carnage overthe land that Divine Providence, raised up SirWilliam Wallace, for a deliverer of his country,from the slavish submission to the English mon¬arch, and a champion to avenge her wrongs.This remarkable hero was the son of f irMalcolm Wallace, the proprietor of a small estatecalled Ellerslie, near Paisley, in the county ofRenfrew. The exact period of his birth is notknown ; but it is supposed that at the time of histfather’s death, who was killed at the battle ofLoudon Hill, in 1293, he was about fifteenjears of age. His mother, after this disastrousevent, fled with her son to the house of anuncle, where Wallace lived between two and threeyears, when a boy he had witnessed the se-4eurif.y and happinfss of his country during thereign of Alexander 111, and now when she wasdegraded and oppressed by the tyrant Edward,his countrymen despoiled of their goods, andtheir wives and daughters wantonly insulted byhis English followers, the contrast was of such anature as to arouse the keenest feelings in a heartwhich from its earliest stirrings was animated hya love of liberty to his country, which nothing butdeath could extinguish.Whilst brooding in secret over his country’swrongs, an event occurred which stimulated thepowers ot his mind and body.into active existence,and for ever banished all hope of conciliation be¬twixt him and the enslavers of his country. Hehad formed an attachment to a beautiful vouugwoman in the town of Lanark, and when passingthrough that burgh, well armed and somewhatrichly dressed, he was recognised by a troop ofEnglish soldiers, who surrounded and insultedhim. Wallace at first would have prudently gotclear of their insolence ; but a contemptuous strokewhich one of them made against his sword, pro¬voked him to draw, and he laid the culprit deadat his feet. A tumult now arose, and, almostoverpowered by numbers, he escaped with diffi¬culty into the house of his sweetheart, and throughit, by a back passage, into the neighbouring5woods. For facilitating his escape, the unfor¬tunate girl was seized r.ext day by the Englishsheriff, and with inhuman cruelty condemned andexecuted. But WaLace’s revenge, when he heardof her unmerited fate, rvas as rapid as it was stern.That very night he collected thirty faithful andpowerful partisans, who, entering the town whenall were in their beds, reached the sheriff’s lodg¬ings in silence. It was a building constructed ofwood, and the sheriff’s apartment communicatedwith the street by a high stair. Up this Wallacerushed at midnight, and, beating down the door,presented himself in full armour, and with hisnaked weapon, before the affrighted officer, whoasked him whence he came, or who he was ? “Iara William Wallace,” he replied, ‘‘whose lifevou sought yesterday : and now thou shalt an¬swer me for my poor maiden’s death.” Withthese words he seized his naked victim by thethroat, and passing his sword through his body,cast the bleeding wretch down the stair into thestreet, where he was immediately slain. He thenspeedily withdrew with his followers into thewoods which surrounded the town. For this dar¬ing act of retaliation he was accused by'the gov-erment of murder, and sentence of of proscriptionand outlawry being passed against him, an im¬mediate and eager pursuit wasadopted. Wallace,6however, was intimately acquainted with thecountry, and found little difficulty in defeatingevery effort for his apprehension.Before proceeding further, however, in the de¬tail of Wallace’s personal history, and in orderbetter to understand the narrative which follows,it becomes necessary to take a short review ofthe state of matters at that time in Scotland, andthe course of events which led to the series oftransactions.Upon the. death of Alexander III. a numberof candidates appeared for the Scottish crown;and among- others were Robert Bruce and JohnBaliol, both descendants of David I. The rightof the former was cei tainly the preferable one ;but when the right of succession was not dis¬tinctly settled, the claims of both had supporters.It was at last proposed, to refer their claims toEdward I. of England, one of the most powerfulmonarchs of that day. Edward, who had longcherished ambitious designs upon Scotland, wasdelighted with this proposal, and by way of ad-'usting the matter, which he now affected to lookupon with a great deal of solemnity, summonedthe Scottish nobles to Norliam, where, he soonprevailed on all present, not excepting Bruce andBaliol, to acknowledge him Lord Paramount,and swear fealty to him in that character.ij It was on this occasion maintained by Edward,lat the English monarchs were the natural andcknowledged superiors of the kingdom of Scot-i ind, which only" an appanage of the English'frown; and that at different periods this right1 ad been authenticated by the homage of theScottish princes. Now the fact was, that thesei cts of fealty were only rendered for possessionsI if the Scottish sovereigns lying on the northernrentier of the English dominions. These terri-ries, from their being situate on the thresholdf the two kingdoms, had formed the theatre ofany sanguinary conflicts; and had at divers timeshanged masters, till they came at last to be con-idered as belonging to Scotland. For theseossessions it had been the practice of some ofhe Scottish kings, at different periods, to doorange, to those of far inferior note, for tracts ofand acquired in this manner ; and instances wereot awanting of the English monarchs themselves,endering that sort of subjection to the kings ofFi’ance. It was now contended, however, byEdward, that the homage or fealty on these oc¬casions had been done for the entire kingdom ofScotland.This was the first step in Edward’s ambitiousviews. Under pretence of transmitting the fullauthority into the hands of the successful can-didate, he next demanded the temporary possession of all the fortresses of the kingdom : which Istrange to say, were passively yielded into hihands, with the exception of the castles of Dundee and Forfar, then held by Gilbert de Umfraville, who refused compliance with this unlooked-for mandate, unless a written indemnityshould be given at the hand of the Scottish no|bles, freeing him from all share of blame. Tinclaim of Baliol was at last, 17th December 1292;declared the preferable one, and that personagehaving again acknowledged the English king ashis liege lord, was placed by him on the Scottishthrone.The insults and degradation to which he wassubjected at last roused even the complying spiritol lialiol, and in the bitterness of his soul hecould not help communicating his feelings to thenobles of his court, who, at his instigation, nowunanimously disclaimed their hasty allegiance tothe English monarch. “ The silly traitor,” ex¬claimed Edvrard in derision, when Baliol’s re¬fusal to attend his summons was communicatedto him, “ if he will not come to us we will jjo tohim.” 3Edward now entered Scotland with a large ar¬my ; one stronghold after another yielded to theconqueror; Edinburgh Castle surrendered aftera slight resistance; Stirling Castle almost with¬out a struggle ; ethers were abandoned : the spiritot the nation was extinguished : and Baiiol againsubmitted to the terms of the conqueror. In thisinvasion Edward had been joined by Bruce andlus adherents, who conceived a prospect wasopened up of that nobleman obtaining the crown.But Edward, when order was restored, and thematter hinted to him, contemptuously replied,“ Have w’c nothing else to do but to conquerkingdoms for you?” Bruce made no reply, butretired into obscurity, and passed the remainderof his days in quietness and opulence.It was in the month of July 1296 that Edwardfinished at Elgin his •expedition northward a-gainst the Scots. On his return to the southIds army committed the most dreadful excesses;and still more to complete the subjugation ofScotland, the English monarch ordered all thecharters and public papers which could in anyway exhibit proof of the independence of therealm to be destroyed. He also carried oft’ thecelebrated stone, belonging to the coronation-chair of the Scottish kings, from the palace ofScone, where it had been kept for ages, and de¬posited it in Westminister Abbey. But all theseindignities, added to the oppression and misruleof Edward’s lieutenants in Scotland, only served10to exasperate, and at last to rouse into fearful ac¬tion, the slumbering hatred of the nation. A-mong the foremost of those who banded them¬selves against the English was Wallace, who nowfirst publicly appeared on the scene. He was aman eminently fitted for his perilous enterprise;for to the most ardent love of his country, un¬shaken resolution, and prodigious strength ofbody, he added those firm yet conciliatory man¬ners which are necessary to govern rude andtumultuary ranks ; while the personal and familyinjuries he had sustained at the hands of theEnglish gave tenfold vigour to his efforts. Aprediction also of Thomas the Rhymer, assertedthat by the arm of Wallace was the independenceof Scotland to be achieved.To be aquainted with the strength and resour¬ces of the English, Wallace often disguised him¬self, and visited their garrisons and towns.He took precaution to wear a light coat ofmail under his common clothes; his bonnet, whichto common sight was nothing more than a capof cloth or velvet, had a steel basnet concealedunder it; a collar or neck-piece, of the same met¬al, fitted him so closely, that it was hid complete¬ly, and below his gloves he had strong gauntlets ofplate. Relying on his Herculean strength andsecret armour, he fearlessly ventured into the very11middle of his enemies, and when they venturedto taunt or assail him, found that they had to dowith an assailant in full armour and of undauntedcourage.While thus disguised, personal encounters withhis enemies were of frequent occurrence. Heslew a buckler-player at Ayr, and put to flighta number of soldiers, who attempted to rob himof his day’s sport as he fished in Irvine water.He repaid the rudeness of Squire Long-castleby a mortal thrust in the throat with his dagger;and by many such bold and daring adventures heslew manv of his foes.In the spring of the year 1297, the peoplewere suffering grievously from famine, to relievethe English garrison of Ayr, a large train ofwaggons, under the protection of John de Fen¬wick, took their journey from Carlisle to thattown. Of this Wallace was informed, and al¬though he could then only muster about fiftysoldiers, he determined to attack it. Ilaviim-occupied a strong position within a wood, he putup a temporary fortification, and passed the night.In the grey dawn of the morning, he and his menleft their horses, and occupied a narrow vallevwhich the convoy was to pass. Forward cameFenwick at the head of a forco which far outnum¬bered them, and, confident in his own numbers*12lit* did not hesitate to attempt forcing the passhut he was soon convinced ofhis error. Encum¬bered by the train of waggons, and carriages howas throwm into irrecoverable confusion, and the♦Scots, after a great slaughter, captured the wholeconvoy, which, besides w ine, and forage, includedtwo hundred horses, and a conssderable plunderin arms and accoutrements.Wallace having been thus successful in variouspartial encounters, many of the barons and otherpersons of high rank flocked to his standard.Edward now prepared a fresh army, w hich, un¬der the command of Sir Robert Clifford and SirHenry Percy, a second time invaded Scotland.Hastening to quell the insurrection, they cameup with Wallace and his army, occupying an ad¬vantageous position in the neighbourhood of Ir¬vine, in Ayrshire, and much superior to the Eng¬lish in numbers, but far inferior in discipline andappointments. By that sort of fatality, whichseems inherent in divided command and undis¬ciplined masses, when they are most required toact in concert, and which always leads to distrustand perplexity, the commanders, on this occasion,were determined to he each independent, andwere therefore intractable They could agreeupon no measure, Dissension and heartburningswere every where : and Sir Richard Lundin, who13had baeu most veheiiaent in his hostility to theinvaders, deserted the cause of his country, andwent over to the English, “ I will remain nolonger with a party that is at variance with it-wdf.”—Stewart, Lindsay, and Douglas, followedthis example, and basely yielded themselves tothe authority of Edward’s officers.The Scottish champion, finding himself thus>asely deserted, by the leading men who sur-ounded him, retired northward. On his marchvith those who still remained faithful to his for¬tunes, he was joined by many new followers, andijlven received considerable accessions to bis ranks|jrom the vassals of several barons. Finding bisjinny-, by reason of these accessions, once moren a formidable footing, Wallace renewed thefar, and commenced operations by laying siegep Dundee, a place of eonsiderable strength.I The English leaders were no sooner apprizedff Wallace’s movements in that quarter than theylastened to meet him, and with that intent ad-Imced iii the direction of Stirling. Intelligence| their march having been speedily comrnuni-jlted to the Scottish champion, he instantly re-•,lived to meet them on their approach. He thenwarged the citizens of Dundee, under pain of|ath, to continue the blockade, and commencedis march, hastening to seize the important passJL .lirawirmT "imi'iMi .n—   114which divides the Ochil from the Grampian Hills,so that the English forces, when ready to passthe Forth by the bridge at Stirling, were aston¬ished to see the Scottish army drawn up on a ris¬ing ground near the Abbey of Cambuskenneth,and prepared to oppose their passage. Edward’sgovernor, here attempted to practise the samearts which had heed so successful while at Irvine.The men which Wallace now had, were of a ver vdifterent stamp from those dastardly and perfid¬ious barons with whom it was his misfortune onthat occasion to be allied. All terms of com¬promise were promptly and sternly rejected“ Return,” said Wallace to the two friars sentby Warrene to propose an accommodation ; “ Wecame not here to treat but to assert our rightsand set Scotland free. Let them advance, the> :will find us prepared”Thus the English commanders were throwijinto perplexity as to what plan of operations the;should follow. To attempt to force a pa-sag'along the bridge, in the face of an enemy so advantageously posted and so full of zeal and big1 ,i.hopes, would be a step fraught with manifesdanger, On the other hand, to decline the contest with an enemy inferior in many respects-would be held disgraceful. While engagein these deliberations, the danger of ussaultin,,i-lI■-f■-u«he Scots in their present position appeared moreand more hazardous to all the English comman¬ders, except Cressingham the treasurer, who ex¬claimed “ Let us fight, as is our boundcn duty.”The boisterous eloquence of Cressingham prevail¬ed, and the rest of the leaders yielded a reluctantassent, contrary to the advice also ol one otWallace’s late perfidious associates, Sir RichardLundin, who offered to point out a ford at a shortdistance, by taking advantage of which they couldfall on the rear and flanks of the enemy.Wallace, Exhorting his followers solelv to a-bide by his orders for the moment of attack,Wallace allowed about a third of the Englisharmy fairly to clear the bridge; when rushingdown, while the others were defiling along thebridge, with an unlooked for and almost incredi¬ble impetuosity, the Scots precipitated themselveson their yet unformed ranks. The shock waslike that of a mountain-torrent. The Englishseemed to have been, as it were, instantaneouslyswept off the earth. Thousands were slain onthe field or drowned in the river; among the resttheir rash adviser, Cressingham, whose dead bodywas treated with great indignity by the Scots,who abhorred him for the tyranny which lie hadalways displayed against their country. A panicseized the English, who had witnessed this sud-10Jen overthrow and destruction of their compan¬ions : they hastily burned the bridge to securetheir retreat, and, fleeing wiUi the utmost rapidi¬ty, they scarcely halted till they had reachedBerwick, leaving all their baggage and otherammunition in the hands of the victors. Few a-mong the Scots fell in this engagement. Thisbattle, so fatal in its issue to the English, tookplace on the 11th September 1297.Wallace pushed on with rapid steps to Dundee,which in a short time capitulated. One strong¬hold after another fell into the hands of the pat¬riots, and the country was soon freed from thetyranny of her oppressors.By reason of had seasons and want of cultiva¬tion, the country was reduced to a most deplora¬ble state of privation and want, amounting almostto famine. To relieve in some measure the gen¬eral pressure, as well as to retaliate on the invaders,an expedition into England was put under thecommand of \\ allace, and the young Sir AndrewMurray, whose father fell at Stirling. The Scotspoured into the northern counties, Berwick wastaken, and the whole country completely overrunand wasted ; and so great was the revenge of theScots at this time, that Wallace himself and theother commanders were altogether unable torestrain their excesses.Many wonderful facts are told of Wallace’sexploits he defeated the English in several com¬bats, chased them almost entirely out of Scotland,regained the towns and castles of which they hadpossessed themselves, and recovered the completefreedom of the country. He even marched intoEngland, and laid Cumberland and Northumber¬land waste, and humbled the English.' In the north of Scotland, the English hadplaced a garrison in the strong castle of Dunnot-tar, which, built on a large and precipitous rock,overhangs the raging sea. Though the place isalmost inaccessible, Wallace and his followersfound their way into the castle, while the garrisonin great terror fled into the church or chapel,which was built on the very verge of the pre¬cipice. This did not save them, for Wallacecaused the church to be set on fire. A numberof the terrified garrison, involved in the flames,ran upon the points of the Scottish swords, whileothers threw themselves from the precipice intothe sea, and swam along to the cliffs, where theyhung like sea-fowl, screaming in vain for mercyand assistance.The followers of Wallace falling on their kneesbefore the priests who chanced to be in the army,they asked forgiveness for having committed somuch slaughter within the limits of a church do-Xdicated to the service of God. But Wallace hadso deep a sense of the injuries which the Englishhad done to his country, that he only laughed atthe contrition of his soldiers,—“ 1 will absolveyou all myself,” he said. “ It is not half whatthe invaders deserved at our hands?” So deep-seated was Wallace’s feeling of national resent¬ment, that it overcame, the scruples of a temperwhich was naturally humane.The Scots returned from England in triumph,laden with plunder; where they had spread ter¬ror along the whole border, to the gates of New¬castle.Edward once more resolved to invade Scotland,at the head of 80,000 infantry and 7000 horse¬men, he in person led on the march, holding hiscourse northward he passed through Edinburgh,and fixed his head-quarters at Templeliston, avillage between that city and Linlithgow, wherehe resolved to abide till his victualling-shipsshould arrive. While stationed here he receivedintelligence that the Scots were advancing uponFalkirk, a town about 12 miles distant. He re¬solved to give battle. But while the Englishpassed the night under arms on a heath, an ac¬cident happened to their king which threatenedfor the present to suspend the attack. As he layon the ground, his war-house struck him with a19tolence which broke two of ins ribs; but, disre-krding the pain, he mounted the horse and in-antly led his troops to battle.[I.The Scots were formed in a stony field on atightly rising ground, in the near vicinity of Fal-rk. Their infantry were drawn up in four cir-dar bodies, while the archers were disposed injie intervals. The horse, amounting only to alOusand, were posted in the rear. In front ofie whole lay a morass. “ Now,” said Wallace,I have brought you to the ring ; hop gif youn —that is, “ dance if you have skill.” Ed-ard’s chief dependence was on his cavalry, 4000whom were cased in complete armour. Thesef ranged in three lines. The first was led byigot, Earl Marshal, and the earls of Herefordincoln; the second by the bishop of Durham,iving under him Sir Ralph Basset of Drayton ;ie third, to act as a reserve, was commanded byie king in person. The assault was begun byie English horse, who, finding the passage of:e morass, which lay in front of the Scots, toc impracticable, made a simultaneous attack onie right and left flanks of their enemy. Theft flank made a determined and bloody resist-ice ; but the Scots cavalry, panic-struck by the'erwhelming appearance of the English horse,Inch, as, well as their riders, were equipped in20heavy plates of steel, fled on their near approacWallace with his gallant infantry had now tosu'tain, unsupported, the whole shock of the Englrarmy, who again and again threw themselvwith headlong fury upon the Scottish circlesbut, “ they could not penetrate into that wooof spears.” Atter sustaining these repeated chages with the most determined resolution, the outranks were at last broken by dense showersstones and arrows, which the English pouredupon them in aid of the heavy onsets of thehorse. Macduff and Sir John Graham had bthis time fallen, as also Sir John Stuart, whcommanded the archers ; almost all of which lashad perished by the side of their beloved commarder, whose death by their devoted bravery theso amply revenged. The rout was now becorring universal, when Wallace, collecting the shattered remains of his forces, commenced a retro?across the Carron,—a movement which, by hiprecaution caused little loss—Among those whmost eagerly pressed on their rear was Bruce, whon this occasion had again leagued himself witthe English. Exasperated at the sight of this se!fish traitor, Wallace suddenly darted forward, aniwith his two-handed sword dealt him a blowwhich, though it missed Bruce’s head, was yaimed with such prodigious strength as to olea21tiiihis horse to the ground. With Sir Brian 1« Jay*a knight-templar of high military renown, the(Scottish hero was more successful. With a sin-le blow of his battleaxe he laid him dead in theaidst of his followers.W allace now retreated across the Forth. Butnevious to this movement, and while wanderingon the banks of the Canon, Wallace was recog-jtised hy the misguided Bruce, who descried himom the opposite bank, and, with the view per-aps of justifying his own dastardly conduct, as-ribed to ambitious motives, in his opposition toae English. “ No,” said Wallace, “ mynoughts never soared so high; I only mean toliver my country from oppression and slavery,d to support a cause which you and others haverand on ed, Ifyou have but the heart, you mayt win a crown with glory, and wear it withsticc. I can do neither: but will—live and diefree born subject.”1 he generous mind of Bruce was much struckth these glorious sentiments; he repented thathad joined Edward ; lie felt that he had ke¬yed bis country and his own right; and he:retly determined to seize the first opportunityjoining his oppressed countrymen.In this battle, the loss on both sides was veryat. The number of the English, according22to historians of credit, amounted, as before stated,to nearly 90,000 men, while that of the Scotsscarcely, reached to a third part of the amount.Among the Scots who fell none was more regret¬ted than Sir John the Graham, whose death was |deeply mourned by Wallace. Sir John wasburied at Falkirk, where a monument was eree-ted to his memory, on which there is the follow¬ing inscription:—“ Graham is buried here.- slainin battle by the English: he was strong in mindand body, and the faithful friend of Wallace.”The battle of Falkirk led the way to further ,successes on the side of the English, and almostthe whole of the southern districts were reducedunder their power. The Scots still held posses-rsion of the country north of the Forth. In themean while Wallace, mortified by the treacheryof the nobles, who threw every obstacle in the ,way of his being of any efficient use in the cause 'of his country, and disgusted with their quarrels'and jealousies, retired tor a while into obscurity.About this time, he took a voyage to France,with a small band of trusty friends, to try whathis presence might do to induce the French mon-iarch to send to Scotland a body of auxiliary for¬ces, to aid the Scots in regaining their independ¬ence, but in the mean time bishop Lamberton.Bruce, earl of Garrick, and John Gumming tlwr :23jyounger submited to Edward, but Sir Williaml Wallace, with a very small band of followers re-rfused either to acknowledge the usurper, Edward,lor to lay down his arms. He continued to main-itain himself amono- the woods and mountains of] »ibis native country, for no less than seven yearslatter his defeat at Falkirk, and for more than oneyear after all the other defenders of Scottish lib-icrty had laid down their arms. Many proclam-lations were sent out against Kim by the English,land a great reward was set upon his head; forEdward did not think he could have any securepossession of his usurped kingdom of Scotlandwhile Wallace lived. At length he was takenprisoner; and, shame it is to say, a Scotsman,called Sir John Menteith, was the person bywhom he w7as seized and delivered to the English.It is generally said that he was made prisoner atRobroyston, near Glasgow: and the tradition ofthe country bears, that the signal made for rushingupon him and taking him at unaw'ares, was, whenone of his pretended friends, who betrayed him,! should turn a loaf, which was placed on the table,i with its bottom or flat side uppermost. And inalter-times it wras reckoned ill-breeding to turn aloaf in that manner, if there was a person namedMenteith in company; since it was as much as to. 24remind him. that his namesake had betrayed SirWilliam Wallace, the Champion of Scotland.Edward having thus obtained possession of theperson whom he considered as the greatest obsta¬cle to his complete conquest of Scotland, resol¬ved to make Wallace an example to all Scottishpatriots, who should in future venture to opposehis ambitious projects. He caused this gallantdefender of his country to be brought to trial inWestminster-hall, where he was accused of hav¬ing been a traitor to the English crown ; to whichhe answered, “ I could not he a traitor to Ed¬ward, for I was never his subject.”Notwithstanding this most honourable defencerWallace was shamefully condemned to be exe¬cuted as a traitor ! and Edward to his infinitereproach and disgrace, ordered Wallace to hedragged upon a sledge to the place of execution,where his head was struck off, and his body di¬vided into four quarters, which, in conformity tothe cruel practice of the time, were exposed uponpikes of iron upon London Bridge,—his righllarm above the bridge at Newcastle,—his leftwas sent to Berwick,—his right foot and limb tcPerth, and his left quarter to Aberdeen,—anrtermed the limbs of a traitor! He was executecbn the 23d of August, 1305. ;VIN’IS.