Vice Punifhed, and Virtue Rewarded j'BEING THEHISTO RYOPMr Tommy Iborou^hgood,ANDMr Francis Froward,Two Apprentices to the fame Mafter.Publifhed at the requeft of feveral Gen¬tlemen of the Common Council ofthe City of London, for the benefit ofall, efpecially young people.Abhor that which is evil cleave to that whichis good,EDINBURGH:Printed this prefect Year.THER YH I S T OO FMr, Tommy Throughgood,Mr. Francis F reward.' 7ivo Apprenticei to-the j.me MaJIer,l. Thomas Thorou ;hgood, thehe younger fon ot a country gen¬tleman, was put out apprentice to aneminent tradeiman in Che iplide. I hemailer finding his bufinels inertrafe, wasobliged to tak? another about .a yearafter, whole name was Francis Froward.Tboma- had behaved cxcedingly well,'Was very diligent and h one it, as well asgood ; he uied to fay his prayers con-lt ntly every morning" and night ; henever went to play when he Ihould beANDatThe HISTORY 3at Church or about his mafter’sbufinefs,never was know to tell a lie, nor everftaid when he was fenc on an errand.Thefe rare qualifications had gained himthe affeciious ot his maftcr and miitrefs,and made aim a favourite in the familybefore Francis came to them, it was ina great measure owing to mafter Tom¬my’s character m the neighbourhood,that matter Fro vardwas induced to com-})'y with the Mafter’s demands, notdoubting but his Toil, hi fuch a happyiittH ition, and with a cornpartion of fofweet a dilpoliuon, would one day turnout to his fatistacTion, and be a a com-foit to him 111 his old age.Francis, in the hrd year of his appre-nticeihio, began co diicover the naturalbent ot his inclination. He chofe to af-fcociate himlclf with naughty boys inthe ftree s, and fee.netl to place his wholedelight m lo >le and idle neverfions ; henegle&ed the buhuds or the ihop. when'at home, and intircly forgot it when hewas abroad Fneie, and mmy more in-difcreacions of tne like n icure, TommyThorougbgood4 rThe HI*>T 0 RT ofThorough wood concealed at fir ft fromhis Mafter, tho’not without fbme inwarduneafinefs.In the fourth years fervice, our youaefpark, who wras an only child, heir to apretty fortune, gave further proofs ofhis vicious turn of mind, and frequentrly launched into follies and debaucheriesof a more henious natur e ; for now hemade sno icrople of abfenting hinrlelffrom Church on the Lord’s day ; alwaysftaid out late when he knew his Mafterwas engaged in company, and at fuchlimes very rarely returned home lober;n^y, he had lometimes the aflur. nce tolie out of his Mailer’s houfe all night.In order to deter him from purfiiing thiswicked courle of life, Mr Ihoiough-good ftireatened to inform his Mafter ofhis ftandalous behaviour and to ;las 1 all thele menaces proved ineticdt-ual, and inftead tf working out of hisreformation, ferved only to lieighten hisrtfttntment, and to raife daily fquabblesjand animofities between them. Here-his parents of his mifcondudl.uponT. Thorfntrsrhyrood ami F. Froward. 5upon Mr. Thoroughgood, finding all hisI pood offices hitherto thrown aw^, atlength Vletermlned no more to n eddNjnthe affinr, or even to ofF;r his l-ypwo-es *advice; bat to leave the unhappy vo*ifhto follow the dictates of his own pifrverfewill: being reiolved at the fame ti ne ta'take particular care that he Ihould nor,in any of his mifchievous frolicks de¬fraud Ids Matter, and thereby caft an o-dium upon his fellow-apprentice..The Mader was chofen Alderman of! the ward, and Mr fhorougbgood wasout of his time Jtl'.e t?n e ytar v<jddunblameable co.hda.fi, had now thewhole m magemettetof rite trade, as wellabroad as at home, committed to hiscare and infpecflion. X'his great chargeob iged him to teep a flridl!!* eve overl arancis’ behaviour who was j dh.e»-tering into the lad year of hb- appreu-ticeihip, and imagined his ablions wereabove cogn z mee of one, who the otherday was but ins eqnal ; and on this ac¬count would neitlier hear or bear his re¬proof, nor hears.en to his admonition ;but6 The H1ST0 R T ofbut continued to riot in all the follis andand degeneracies of human nature, tillhis apprenticlhip was expired, bo true itis, “ That the wicked hateth reproof,4* but the wife man lendech his ear toinftru&ion,Mr. Francis having been for a longwhile impatient of a fervile life was nowbecome his own Mailer, and feemed e?g-er of puling himfelf upon a level withhis late companion. To efft<5l this, hegoes down to his father, and pi evails up¬on him to fet him up in bufintfs, thathes .eight trade for hi^afelf. 1 he reinswere no fooncr laid dh his neck, than hegave a loofe to his lenfual appetites, andin little more than fox^ years, nad aflatute of ban>;v»prcy taken out againlfhurt. The unexpe<5ted news of this tat-cv^nt, inftantly broke his mother’sheart, nor did the old gentleman fur-vive her long. Hereupon our heir wasobliged to fell the perfonal and mortgagethe real eftate, to procure his liberty,and to latisfy the aflignees. In thishnking fituation after the days of mom n-T. T) orou^kgood and F. Froward. Jing weie over, he left the houfe his fa¬ther lived in, and returned again to Lon¬don, where he purchafed a handlomeepipag, commenced the fine gentleman,frequented the balls, malquerades, play-houles, roms, drums, 6cc. 8cc. and cutas good a figure as the belt of them.But here let us leave him for a while,and turn onr eyes to a worthier objedt.In the fame fpace of time which Mr.Froward took to Iquander away a goodeftate, Mr Thoroughgood had by hisown indufiry,and trom a fmall fortune,*gained one confiderably better, and wasin a fair way of encreafing it. The for¬mer made plealure his bufinefs, but thelatter matie bufinefs his pleafure, andwas rewarded accordingly. The alder-nian, who by his own application, andMr. Thoroughgood’s affiduity, waswas grown very rich, had no child nowliving but one daughter, of whom bothhe and his lady were extremely fond ;they had nothing fb much at heart, 3sto lee her weel ietiled in the world, bhehad many fuiiois, but relolved to en¬courage8 The HISTORY ofcourage none without the confcnt of herparents, whn would often, when bythemfelves tell her that it was their jo-ntopinon, Ihe could not difpofe of herfc Ifbetter than to Mr. 1 homas, and wouldfrequently afk how fhe liked him? torthey wonld be unwilling to marry heragainft her own inclinationi. Her ufualawfer was, “ Your cheice ihall be mine j“ iny duty fhall never be made lubfer-“ vient to any fenlual paffion.” 7'hisreply was not lb full and expreflive asthey expeded ; and as mothers are com¬monly very dexterous in finding outtheir daughter’s maladies. Madam hadgood reafon ro believe, from fbme obser¬vations made on Mifs’s behaviour, thather affedfions were alredy fixed, andthat fhe was deeply in love with fome-body elfe, which was the caufe of herunufual anxiety. Hereupon, as fhe wasfitting at work one evening, in a melan¬choly poftore, they called her, an 1 de-fired to be informed whither the hufbindthey propofed was difagreeable to her,if fo, Ihe.ihould chufe for herfelf.T. 7 borough^oo3 and F Froward 9The youn^ lady after tome hefttat-ion) with i lu:hes, confetfcd »er regardfor Mr. Thorough, opd ; which gave iu-fi .ite fatisfaclion fo the alderman a.id ■his lady, who were oveijoyed at the pro¬pped they had ot marrying their daugh¬ter to a per Ton ot iuch prudence, integ¬rity and h mour.The next day, as foon as dinner wasover, the aid rman and his la ly with¬drew, and left the two lovers together alithe evening; from this interview, theyI'jcame fenti le of each other’s approach-in.;: happinefs, and about a month afterwere j >me ! together, to the great fatis-fadion of all parties concerned. Fromthis day the bridegroom was taken intopartnership, and tranfaded the wholebulinefa hinrdelf. In proceis of time hisfather-in-law died, and lett him in poi-fefii >n of all his fubSlance. He lucced-ed him alto in dignity, and after havingferved the office of Iheriff, was in a fewyears called to the chair.Mr.10 - The m SI 0 RT ofMr, F^pvvard, who n we left a whileago, piirfuing his pie,:lures and wickedinclinations, had long before this timebeen reduced to poverty, and like,manyother thotightlefs wretches, betook him-felf to the high way and gaming-table,in hopes of recovering a lo'd fortune.He had followed this deitruclive tradewith fom.e fuccefs, above three yearswithout b ong difcovered ; but was atlength taken near Enfield, and broughtto his trial at the Old-Bailey, duringhis fellow-apprentice’s mayoralty, and,call; for his life When he was broughtto the bar to receive fenrer^re, his Lord-fliip recollecting Mr. Froward’s name,examined who he was. and afked if hewas not the p rfon that lerved his timewith Mr. Alderman — , in Cheapfi ie.This he pofitively denied ; but not vith-ftanding he ufed all poffi de means todifguife himfelf, his perlon and Ip echbetrayed him. My Lovd ar.imited withthe principles of compaflion and bene¬volence, amf imagining that h’s defignof concealing himfelf in this wretched li-tiuaiion, might very probably proceedIronT. Thtroughgood and Froward. VIfrom iliame or defpair, took no furthernotice of it in court, 'hut forgetting hisprefent tiifgrace, as well as his formerarrogance and indifcretion, privatelyprocured his fentence to be changed in¬to tranfportadon for life.The fhip in which Mr. Froward em¬barked drove by ftrefs of weather into ac rtain port in J tmica, where he in lefsthan ten days was fold to a noted plant¬er, and doomed to perpetual flavery.You may imagine how fhocking thisprofped limit appear to a gentleman,who had juft before fquandeied away agood eft ate in indolence and pleafnre,who never knew what it w.is to work,nor had ever given himfelf time to think- upon the nature of induftry. However,he no fooner began to rtfkdt upon hisprefent wretched fituation, and his lateprovidential deliverance from death, thanhe alfo began to repent of his formertranfgreffions ; and finding himfelf in aftrange country, unknown to any per-fon about him, he patiently fubmittedhis neck to the yoke, and endured his12 7 he HIST 0 RY offertility with an uncommon fortitude ofmind. In the find place, he determined,during all the time of Irs labour, to of¬fer up continual thankfnvings to Al¬mighty God for his manifold m-uiesbillowed on fo unworthy a creature, andto devote all his hi Cure hours to the dutyof repentance. His next refolution wasto ohev his Maker’s commands, to lerve.him faithfully, and to perform whateverbiilinefs was impofed on him, fo far,and fo long as health and llrength wouldpermit; not doubting but the lame God,\vho l\a i preferved him hitherto, in iucha wonderful manner, would accept theoblations .of a contrite heait, and enablehim to go ihrought it with courage andchearfulnefs.the firft month’s Hrvice, as he him-fe!f told me, went very heard with him.His hands blitlered. ins feet grew loreand raw, and the heat of the climatewas aln oil iniiiportable ; hut as cullommakes eva yllation familiar, before threemonths were t xpiretl, all thefe grieven-ces were at an end; and he, naturallyT Tharoug}jr'oad und F, Freward, j 3enckiH with ipirit of emulation, wouldnot lulfer himfelf io he outdone by anyof his fe.low-fl tves. The furptri mend ant■ ohfeeving his extraordinary aih 'uity,-could not help t.king notice or him,.and would frequently £»ve him encou¬ragement, either by calling him off togo on a tiivial errand, or by thru dinglome money into his hand He_ behav¬ed in th’S manner near tw'o years,-wh'm his Malder was informed of hi-sgood difpofit’on, and removed himfrom that- laborious employment toan ealier, where he had more fre¬quent opportunities of paying odoratiouto chat Almighty Being, who fupportedhim under all his afflictions. )n theleintervals, he was generally found witha book in his hand, or on his kmes,from which practice, he received greatconfolation, as he often affin e 1 me.At the expiration of three years. SirThomas Thoroughgood, who madeprevious enquiry after his fellow-pren-tc e s behaviour abroad, fe>K ord is toiiis agent in Jamaica, to purchafe Mr.Tro ward's,4 Ihe H1S7T) R Y of < ,Froward’s freedom and to advao.ce himtool that he might be enabled toget his Ovvn livelie'ood ; but, at thefame time gave flridf orders to his friend,not to let Mr. Froward know who washis bentfadtor, and to lay his Mafter un¬der the like injundlion. In a {hort timeafter, Mr. Froward was difcharged fromflavery; but did not exprefs fo muchnov on the oocifion, as might be expec¬ted From the good ufage he met within fervitude, and the unufual favours hereceive*: from the fuperintendent, as wellas the planter, he had conceived a greatlikrng for the latter, and teemed to partwith him riot wiihout tome inward re¬luctance, though with apparent furprize,which was much heightened by the ad¬ditional favour of a note lor a hundredpounds payable upon fight to Mr. Fran¬cis ; ro.vaid, or order, delivered to himhv the fame hand, f;>ou after he receiv¬ed the ditcharge before mentioned.During this confufion. the gentlemanwho fealy had a value for his late fer¬vent, told him, he was welcome to be athis houfc till he was fettled, and that heT. Thorough ancl F. Froward. 15would do all the good offijes in his powerto promote his future welfare. Mr Fro¬ward replied. “ Sir, you cannor do me“ greater fervlce, than to let me know“ who is my generous beneladlor; be-caufe it is incumbent upon me to make*' feme acknowle<lgement.” The Mafterpnfitively refufed to do this, and turn jdof the ditcourfby afking how he in¬tended to difpofe of himf. If and money.“ Sir” fays he, “ 1 am not uhacquaint-“ ed w'ith th * nature of trade, and la-4t hour is now become habitual to me,“ and as l am well ik i ed in the cuiti-“ vation of the fugarcane, 1 would wili-“ ing!y rent a fnall pl«iniation_of that“ kind, an 1 work upon it for myfelf.”The planner approved ot this dtifiga and1 promifed bi n atliilance.In about a month after, Mt. Frowardmet with a Bargain, agreeable to hisfubdance, and worked upon it as hardas if he had be. n a red llave, with thisd.fFireixe only, that he could now fparemore ti nein the frvi^e of his all-power¬ful Redeemer, lu the interim, his lateMailer16 Tbs H 1ST 0 RT ofafter procured hi i a wife with a hand—'fbme foi tune, who had a fugar-work ofher own, and (bine nei roes : he pur-►chafed more, and Sv his induftry Thriv¬ed amain, and in a fe v years laid uplocol. in fpecie.Tn this comfortable ftate, nothing gavehim uneafinefh, hut that he C >u!d not-come to the knowh dge ot his kind ben-ef i6lor ; never was man more anxiousto fliew his gratitude, or n.c-re folicitousto find out his friend: One day, as hewas at his devotion, a ftrange gendemaac-ame to h»s habiiitation and defired todee him He was no fooner admited,than he aceofte i him in fhe followingmanner : 4k Mr. b toward, l am com-“ marder fvf the Dove frigate, whofe“ principal owner is Sir Thomas Fho-“ rough,good, and am juft arrived bom“ ling land : By Sir t homos’s orders, l*i am to inform you, that his Jarnica“ Agent is dead, and he has made eho-“ ice of you to fiacceed him here in this** ftation, l have a commiflion from himM for you in my pocket, to uifpoie of41 myT. 7horoughgood and F*. Froward. 17“my cargo, and to freight me again“ for my voyage home. He never41 would own it, hue 1 am well aff ired.“ he is the pei fon who faved you from44 bondage, and was the foie inllrument“ of your prefent prolperity.” Nothingcould give Mr Froward lo great p'ea-fure and fatisfacloo, as this laft piece ofintelligence; he knew not how to makethe captain welcome enough, he kepthim all night, and in the morning madehim a prefent of a hogfhe&d of rum.He made all the poflible difpauh in dif-pofing of his cargo, and freighted himcut with the utmoll expidition. Withthe reft of the goods, he lent Sir Tho¬mas tenjiogfhcads of (ugar, and as ma¬ny of rum, tor a prefent, with the fol¬lowing letter.Honoured Sir,7ranjported with joy, and drowned intears, 1 )cnd this tejtimony of rt,y eftccrh, ofwhich 1 hunwiy bote ycur acceptance, asof thole fmatl tokcni of m> gratitude, wi hrw hich u is accompahica At*/' urrtcr Go t,Uis to you, aeut fir, that 1 owe my hje.i8 7hc HISTORT ofmy liberty, an\ my ait. Happy me, had IhitC’-ed to your ad-vice iu mv non-age!h ippy Jhll, as by your means l have beendirected to the paths oi virtue, '7is to* you I am indepted for my prefent comfor¬table fituattcn, ans the daivaing protpedlcffuture t appinejs: tie b Is of lading, &c.a' e Jent by Mr * and all your bufine fthere, vcith 'which I am intruded, [hull ueex-awed rvith the utmof diligence and fi¬delity. I have only to add my praters forthe caitinuati n of your life and health,•who have been )o bc.ntfcial to many, butmot e partrculary to,Honow ed fir.Tour mo/i humble, mofl obliged,tho mofl umx orhy Jeivant,Frances Froward.Sir Thomas was highly pleafed withthe purport of his ieter. tho’ he railed thecaptain for letting him know to whomhe was obliged for his freedom. Thefame fhip was lent_the next leafon onthe fame voyage, when the captain \yasordered to pay Mr. Froward the fullprice for the i urn and lugar he had lenttp7. Ihoroughgood and F. Froward. 19to the knight, and to deliver him thefollowing letter.Mr. FROWARD,Sir,I thank you for the acknowledgementyou made for the good offices I did you, andfljall ever efteem the pie lent as it was in¬tended ; but have neither power nor incli¬nation to rob you of any thing you have ac¬quired by dent of merit, i\jy deftgn isy toadd to your a<.qu fitionsy and not to dimi-mfh them, as you will experience ; onlyperjevere m your prejent cour/e ofhfe, andyou will make me ample amends for all ihave done, or can d<y fo?' you. I am, firt7"our real friend,T. 1 HOROUGNGCOD.Mr. Froward, who w’as uneafy thathis tiiend refilled his prelent, continuedin a thriving condition for feveral years.And now his wife died without illue ;he, grown veiy rich, and advanced inyears, difpoted of all the lugar-work,and left off <di manner of buiineis, ex-c ‘pt20 The // / S T 0 R T ofcept that of Sir ThomasThoronghgoon’s.At length he himfelT was'feized with apeftelential fever, and carried o fi in afew days He bore the torture ot hiselide t.per with exemplary patience, andmet his approaching dediny with an in¬trepidity of foul f’carce to be paralleled.That von may the better judge of hisf ntimenrs of gratitude, I have herewithfeat a copy of his laid will.Tn the name of God, Amen. 1 Fran¬cis Froward of . in Jamaica, be ngof found mind and memory, do heiebymake mv laft Will and ! eftament, inform and manner following, that is tofay :Imprimis I bequeath my foul to Al¬mighty God that gave it. hoping andfully trufling, that I lhall be laved andma !e eternally happy by the merits ofmy dear Redeemer Jdus ChriR, whofuffered tor me and ah mankind.TheT rXho'roughgood and F Froward 21Item. s th poor convi&s in prifon,where I had once the misfortune to beco fined, are not attended, and inftruc-ted as the ought to be, by p.rfons whof ek their eternal fdvat.on ; l do giveand bequeath fifty pounds a-}ear, topurchafe for their ufe f’uch books as theArchbilhop of Canterbury, the ttilbopof London, and fher ffs of London a - dMiddleftx ih dl think pioper to put intothen hands.Item As the laws of England, how¬ever wif ly coniirucied, have ma le nopiovifion for poor people born in diftantparts, and b come m.firable here, butleft tkem to petifh in the flreets, lanes,and publ’C places 4 l do give and be¬queath five bundled pounds a-)ear, tobe laid out tor their relief in fuch amanner as lhall fetm molt agreeabi tothe Lor i- 1 ayer o London, tnr the timebeing, and to the ruitees, mat be nomi¬nated by my executors. ,Item And as many poor tradfaneriand labourers are artfull) feductd andper-22 The HISTORY ofperf’^V], to en:er themfelves on hoardin-«c ioS for thi- an i other colon-i • Oaminioos, anti areafirrw a o i ano-:n!v drawn in toJi‘A sn th a.iAve.* I .rvaats to the ownersof the veiP.l, -mj iro-n that momentCommence ilives ; an i as fuch are hi'din the pi;hue m ,rk s or toe co'onies,a’ d general^ ill-trned; i do give andbeqnearh five hundred pounds a-yearfor the redemp ton ot fueh un apoyp opl\ and to; t h'1 p ofecation of thofewno have Seen tne ahettois ai^a contri¬vers of their rum.Item \9 gratitude is of all oigblationsthe great- It an 1 mod acceptable, 1 dog-'ve and bequeath to my dear frien.l MrThomas rhorovighgoo l, Merchant inLondon, who faved me from an igno-niinious death, and redeen!^! me fro nfiavery, all the red and refidue of myreal and perfdnal eflate; and l do nom¬inate and appoint him, and his heirs ex¬ecutors for ever. In witnefs wherof, Ihave hitherto fet my hand and leal, thisthird day of May, 1788.JbRANcis Froward,T. Thoroughgood and F. F/award.Witnefs ]Thomas Witnejs,John Wilfon,\A ichard Jones JSomething Odd.'“T HF fam’d Peers of Greece,I Were bur ail ol a pi ce,. And pretended'the gift ut lome god ;I he Poets, &c.Yet beliive me, rhei' art,Was at lea th to ’mport.Something whimfical clever and odd,Yet. &c.So with moderns we find,That this vein of the mind,Rjigns from monarch quite down tothe clod.And tho’ paiaces ftrike,Yet the cotu_e alike,Has its ple.X.re becaufe it is odd.E’en the Prude in her way*Cries each fool has his day.So for once I will follow tue mode,■<>24 The XISTORT of]Let ufi quit the dull fage.And fince ca es don t engage.I’ll ba cheerful becaufe it is odd.May the wife who from home.Scarce venturer to roam,For this once too will venture abroad ;Atd tho’ hufbands will rule,Yet (lie cries t’m-a fool,If to day l can’t dare to be odd.Thus odd folks under heaven,Ma* of odd things meke even.And of all my experience eaie the loadThen for my lake this day.Leave \our cares as they may.And to Marybone come and be odd.FINIS.