' * v ,T H Ei . *#Recruiting Officer:O R,Over the Hills & farTO WHICH ARE i.ODED,POOR GAFFER GilTHE P A R A D O X.I: Nancy figliing for her true lovcjemmy:The Old Worcnn ground Young again..V'.The RECil€ IT IN G OFFICER.T J ARK! how the <’nims be,'-f up agajn,a .3 For al! true folrfifrs, grm'emen jThen let ui hit and march, I i,y%Over tjie hills s/id far away:Chor- Over the hills, and over the main,'i'o Franco, Gibraltar, or to Spuin',.King George commands and we"’!! obey.Over the bills and far away.All gemkmen who have a mind,To ferve our King that’s good and kind,Come lift, and enter into pay,Then over the hills and far away; Over etc. „Here is n poiinfbs on the drum,* For ihofe that Volunteers do come ;"With (Lirts, and clmhee, and piefesat pay,V hec over the hills and far aw. y: Over, etc.Hear that, brave boys, and l< r us go,Cr elfe we Ihall he prrfs’d you know ;Then lift and truer into pav,Wifen ever the bids ird far away: Over, etc.The ft;jean‘j t+ry do fearch about,To ■find fnch brjlk jenng f. llow-s out ■,Then let’s be Volunteers I fay.Over the hills and far away : Over the hills, etc.The Spuniaids row (hall low .be brought.And wealth hind honour’s tc.be got,Who then behind would freaking Hay,* When over the hill* and far away ; Over th?, etc.c 3 j _ :No r*o-e from founJ of drums retrsat,Vvhile that our nob’; fieetj do bratTh; French and Spaniards every day,Kviicri over th; hills and faV away : O«’e: the, etc*| ^ <r .He that is forc’d to go and fight,(jWjH nev-it'gct true honour by'c ;iWhile Volunteers (hall vein the day,I'Wheaovcr the hills and far away: Over the, etc;What tho’ our friends our abfence mourn ?iiWe all with honour (hail return j• A id then we’U fing both night and day, *Over the hills and far away: Over the hill, etc.The ’prentice Bill he may refufeITo wipe Uis angry mailer’s (hoes •,For then he’s free to (mg and play,When over the hills and far awayOver the, etc.The’prentice who has play’d the fool,'And fears to mount repeuting-llool,-T’o kirk and fefilon bids good day,When over the hill* end far away : Over the, etd.Over rivers, boggs, and fpriugs,We all Ihall live a* big hi kings,!And plunder get both night and day, *When over the hills aud far a.way : Over the, etc..Then (hsl! we Hvc more b^pny lives,iBy getting rid o’* ih-att and Wi ves,iThai fccld and fqueei both night and day,fWhen over the i.iils and far away : Over the, etc.Come "on breve hoys- and you fl?al! fee,Avn every oue fir. V: captains he.And we’ll fing arid rlnt as well as they,WL.*nov the hiUs and .far away s Over the. eto-' .V *, ' [ 4 JFor it we po, to one ’us ten,But we return aU gentlemen.Ail gentlemen, as well as they,When over the fctiis and far a's’ay :Cjtor. Over the hills and over the main,To France, Gibraltar, or to 'ipa/n,King George commands, and we’ll obey,Grier-the hills and far away.——POOR GAFFER GRAY.HO ! Whv doft thou fltiver and fhaiee,Gaffer Gray ?And why does thy nofe look fo blue 1*' ’T'is the weather thet’s cold,“ ’Fig Pm grown very old,*' And my doubi'/t is not very new,*' Wc/i-a-day !“ And my doublet is not very new.,>Then line thy worn doublet ith ale,Gaffer Gray,And warm thv old heart with a g'lafs :“ Kay, but credit I’ve none,“ And myr money’s qll gone,.«< Then fay how may this come to pafs,“ V/rli-a-daY !” etc. Hit away fo thphohfe on the brow.Gaffer Gray.Add knock at the jb-’y priefi/s door ;“ The pr-ivt ofieri preaches,“ Ag unfl wcrldly nches,.*" But ne’er give? a m re to the poor,7 YVeH-n-day !!* etc.f 5 3Tlic Lawysr iisrs under the hilt,GifFer Gr^y,Warm!/ fenc’d both, in "back and in front,He’ll fa&en the loch?,“ And jwill threaten the Racks,*' Should he ever nacre find me in want,“ Well-a-day!” etc.The.’Squire Las good beef and brown af t,GalTer Gray,And the feafon will welcome you there ;“ The fat beef and his beer, >“ And bis merry New Year,“ Are all for the Hu lb and the fair,Well-a-day l” etc.My keg is but low, i confefs,Gaffer Gray,What then, while it laits mao, we’ii live'' The poor man alone,“ When he hears the poor moan,** Of his morfel a morfel will give,“ Well-a-diiy !” etc.'the p a a a d o x.^ "fS bipeds made op c?f frail day,WAlas ! We’re tlw.children or fijf joW,And though brifk and merry to-day,We all may be wretched to morrow'.^ far. funfhine’s fucceeded by furrow,Then fearful of life’s fformy weather.Left pleafure fhovld only bring pain,lift os all be unhappy together.I grant, the heft blefiings we know,# It a friend, for t-iue friendihip’s a treasure,■■ r « jA::J left that your friend prove a foe,0 laftc not the dangerous pletifure.Thus frjcjjdfl'.ip’s a flimfy afF-uV,And riches and health are a bubble.There's nothing delightful but care,Nor any thing charming but trouble.ff a man be would point cut that life.Which appears to him neared to heaven,Let him thank his dars, chufe him a wife,To whom truth and honour is given.13ut honour ; truth are fo rar:.And horns when they’re rutting fo tingle.With all due refpect to the fair,1 advife them to ligh and live Tingle.It appears from thefe p re mites plain,That wifdofti is nothing but folly ;That pieafure’s a,term thf.t means pain,And joy is your true melancholy.Then thofe who do laugh, ought to cry,Tis fine fritlc and hm to be grieving,And fmee we mud all of tu: die.We il tatte no enjoyment while living.Nancy fighing for her true Love Jem m?*Ct E A SE, ccnfe fity dear mi Nancy,y* my joy and osriy dear.Let nought ptfpifx y;:>ur fancy,Trice I’m return'd fife here •,Though nr ny ih.ngcrs I’ve been tliroog’n,and battles on tire Teas,God has felior’d Tr.c tack to y: j,from bit er enemies.Chorus- ri! (fi‘1 adore my Nancy,That l- B^ hes Tgh’d tor ne.Whan Jemmy firPt return^. J,m S’iitarV dr:.(s fo gay,He enquired for'his Nancy»and tn her '.r’ent 'traiVhtway :He Paid my dear, S’nrj- !'re return’d,v/d a iove I’i! make you b!‘it.Neither nit»ht nor day for your fwcft fake,could i take my reft. i’U frtU adore, etc.Then come to me my dfare^,my joy and heart's delight,To m? you are the fsireltthat e’e!* ropear'd in tieht;It was for your fweet { if, mv dear,thofe h?.rd(hips I vrent thro’,But fiace that l have feu ad you here.to church pray let us go i’ll ftili udarq, etc.She faid, My e'e^efl: Jrmtriy,my joy a;J only rk’ar.Tarn votrr faith.fu! Nancy,-co r * take me while Tu» here;Then dra-ght (he flew into his arms,he .hid, My deareil love,You .ire tii e luiilrds of. all char me,blest be the Powers above Til-Hill adore, rtcTo church they went with facet content,the rrapov knot was tyM,In unity their d-.ys they fpeiit,ypt«;jr je-n.'v.v and hb bride i1 ■ The molt Jsispqtful wife, he Itsirl,that e’er ray eyes did lee,You now fhai! grace my marriage bed,contented f will be.Chorus. I Hill adore my Karev,That long luo fish’d f®r me.4 8 3The Old Woman ground Young again.AS the miller wasgaii^g to grind iris grain,Ht heard an oft womaii fadiy complain,. O miller, faid fhe,' what mult I give to thee,To make an old woman look yoaing a^ain.'Tis t *renty guineas, the filler, faid he,Then Ore jumped^about as brilk as a bee. .With all my whole heart, the widow rejoic'd,For I know I have got a mold hanpy choice.Come lilf the bumpers up to the brim,For I long to be a maiden again,Then the miller he took her on his back,And he tumbl’d her head and feet into his facie.And unto his houfe he foon did return,And unto his mill did return again ;Then into the h.oppcr the miller lip Idiot her,And fwore he would make her look young again.Then be oil’d her joints and he pair’d her nails,The wind bkw frefh, and he foon made fail,With a great deal'of pleafure they lay on the graft,Then he fworc he would grind her ae {mall as grafs.Then out ctf the hopper (he reeling came,And called to the miller by his name,O miller, faid the, what have you done to me IFoe I think in my heart 1 look young ;»gain.Now the miller he lives at the Windmill Hill,And he grinds old women exceeding well,.So now ye old maids and widows rejoice,For now you have got a moR happy choice.Go to him all you that are old and lame, _ .And-Ke f\ye.u.s he’d m*'.e you look young cy’.-n.; —r-—*S'+'sa-ii ny ’ **. •