THEH I S T O a YKing and the Cobier.IN T :0 P iRTS.Part I. Sbevjs how King Henry VIHth ufed tovifit the Watches in the City ; his acquaintancewith a merry Cobler ; how be was entertained inthe Cobler''s cellar, and what had like to have be-,h fallen thembow upon parting the King invitedhim to court and what befell him there.art II. Informs what paffedbetweeu the Cobleranibis Wife Joan on bis return from court ; alfokoto the fueen, hearing of\tbeir mirth which thei Cobitr made, vsas de/trous of feeing him ; uponwhich the King difguifedbimfelf as alanner andI went to fell the Oobler jome leather, and took ifr$ucen with him, as a young country maid: howthe King invited the Cobler and bis Wife to dineIt with them atan Inn, andwbat paffed there , andI lajlly haw the Cobhr was put in fear of bis lifeI and came of with flying colours.EDINBURGH:Printed by J. Morrkn, Cowcate.O b' T H i£[ *0? scotuwSrTHEH I S T O R YO F T H EKING and the COBLER.PART I.CHAP. I.Mow King Hairy VUL ufed it vifittbe watchesin the city, and'bow he became acquainted witha merry jolly Coblcr*IT was the cudom of King Henry VIIf. late inthe nii»ht, to walk the Ureets in difguife, totake notice h«w the conftables and watch perform¬ed their duty in guarding the gates* and watchingthe inward parts ef the city, to prevent thofe dif-torbances and cafuslities which often happen by■night, in great and populous cit'es. This he didoften without the lead difc 'very; always return¬ing home to Whitehall early in the morning. Once,his return, coifting through the Strand, he tooknotice of a certain cobier, who was coullamly upat work, whiffling and finging every morning. Herefolved te fee hia, and be acquainted with hi», in-order to which* he immediately knocked off the heelof his flkoe hy ftriking it agtinft a done; and hav¬ing fo done, he bounced into the cobler’s dad.Who’s there? cries the cooler,Here’s one, faid the King.With that the cobler opened the dall daor, sacAe king asked him, if he could J»ut om his heel.4 Yes, that I can,” fays the cobler; • come int honed fellow, and fit thee down by ms, nod l wii« do it for thee draight.’ The cobler (craped hiold fhoes to one fide, with his awl, to make roo«ft* the kingto fit hy him.KING AND IIICOBLIR.The king being hardly able to forbear Iaughi»gat the kindnefs of the cobier, allted him if therewas not a heule hard by which fold a cup of goo*ale, and if the people were up i4 Yi*i ' fa id the cobler, ‘ there is aa inq *Tethe way there, I believe the tolk are up, for th^‘ carriers go fro« thefee very early in the mom‘ ing ’With that the king borrowed an old Ihoe *f thecobler’s, and went o,er to the inn, defiring the c*b.ler to bring his ihoe thither to him, ss foon as hehad put on his heel, again : the cobler prbmifed hewould * fo making what haft he could to put theheel on, he carried it over to the king, faying,* Honeft blade, here is thy fboe, FH warant thee4 it will not come off again in hafte.** Very well,’ laid the king, ‘ what rauft yen‘ have for your pains i** A couple of pence,’ anfwered the cobler.* We 1,’ faid the king. ‘ feeing thou art an bo-* neftmerry fellow, here’s a TeiUr for thee; come* fit thee down by me, I will drink a full pot vrich‘ thee ; come here’s a good health to the king.’‘ With all my heart,’ faid tbe cobler, ‘ I wi'H4 pledge the were it in water.’So the cobler fat do«n by the king and was ve.ry merry, and drank off the liquor freely. Ke ??f»fang fome of his merry fongs and catches wherestthe king laughed heartily, and was very pleafantand jocound with the coble r4telling hi* withal thathis name was Harry ludor^ and that he belong¬ed to the court; ana that if he would eome a«d feehim there, he would make him very welcome, be,caufehe was fach a raerry fellow ;Jand charged himto be there and not to forget his name, and to afcany one about the court for hi*, and they wouldbring him to him : For faid the king, 1 a* verywell known there.4 THE HISTORY OF TiIENow the caoier little drevned that he was theking who {poke to him, rt a chiefs' that the king’sdeal of confidence, he {lands up and pulls off hishat, and makes two or three fcraps -vith his foot,and gives the king many thanks, telling him that hewas sue of the ncueftdl fellows,he ever met within all his life time ; and though he had never beenat court, v;t it fUoald not be long before he.wouldmake a holy day to come and fee nim.> hereupon tne king difchnrged the houfe forwhat they had drank, would have taken his leaveof the eobler.But ' he cobler not being willing to part with theking, t ook him by the hand, and faid, ‘ By my* fait ), you mull not go yet : you (hail firft go* and lee my poor habit-Etion; I have there a tub‘ of good bro wn ale that was never tapp’d, you* mull needs go and talle of it, for you are the no-* nefte blade that I ever met withal; and 1 love4 an honell merry epppanion with all my heart.G H A P. If.Jffbvf the Cobler entttained the Kint; in bis cellar^and of tbt diflnrbance tbey'd like to have bail bythe Cobler'-s Wife Joan-SO the cobler took the king with him over theway, where he had a celHr adjoining to theHall, which was handfomely and neatly furnifliedfor a man of hi* profeffion ; into this cellar he hadthe king; ‘ There,’ faid he, ‘ fit down, you are‘ very welcome. But I mull defire you to fpeak* foftly for fear of awakening my wife Joan, who* lies here hard by,’ fhe ' ing the king a ciofe bedmade up neatly at the corner of the cellar, muchlike unto a clofet, * for if (he Ihould wake. flie will^ make your ears ring again.’KING AND THE CORLER. 5At which fpeech of the cobler^, the king laugh¬ed and told him he would be mindful to obiervehis direftionf.Whereupon the cobter'kindled.the fire, and fetch¬ed out a brown loaf; from which be cut a lulty toaft,whioh he let a baking at the fire, then he b> oughtk out his Chefliite cheefe. Come faici he, will on4 eat fbme Clielliire cheefe ; there is as goodfellow-‘ Ihip in eating as drinking.4This made the king admire the honeft freedomo£ the cobler fo liaving eaten » bit, the cobler be¬gan a health to all true heart*, and merry compa¬nions ; at which the king fmiling, laid,4 Good mer-4 ry fi iend, I’ll pledge thee.4In tiii* manner they ate and drank together untilit was almoft break of day. Thecabler being veiyfree of hii tiqCfor, biid deljgliting ti e king with fe-\*tral of his old tVories, in fo much, that the kingwas highly pleafed with the manner of the cobler’sentertainment; when on a hidden the cobler’a wifeJoan began awake : 4 I, faith, fays the cobler,4 you mull be gone, my wife Joan begins to grum-4 tie, flie will awake prefentiy, and I would not4 for half the fhoes in my ihop file tvould find youSoiaking the king by the hand, he led him upflairs, faying, 4 Farewell honed blade, it (hall net4 be long before I make a holy bay, and come to4' fee the court,’• You (hall be kindly welcome,’ replied the king.So they p. rteu the king on his way to White¬hall. and the coblor to Ins cellar and there havingput all things to rights, before his wife Joan gotup, he fell to work again, whiffling and firging asmerry as he ufed to do, being much faiitfun thathe had happened on fo good and jovial a companionand ftill curdling in his thoughts how merry he*fliould be when he came to court.6.THE HISTORY OE THECHAP. III.Ikw the tobkr prepared bimfef t$ go to, court,and bow be 'was fet out after the bejl manner bybis ynfe Joan*XTOVV as'loon as the king came horns, he fent-*■ * orders out about the court, that if any one en¬quired for him, by the name of harry Tudor, theyttenki immediately bring the perfon before hm,whate ver he was, withoutany further examinationof him. h- ow the egbler thought every da- a •onthtik he had becn’at court to fee his new acquaint¬ance, and was much troubled how he fhould getleave of his wife Jo.- n, for he could not go withouther knowledge; becaufe he reiolved to make him-itlf as fine as he could, and the wife alwa;s leptthe key of his holyday clothes.Wheieupon, one evening, as they fat at fnpper,finding h r in a very good humour, he began toopen his mind to her, telliag her the whole ftoryof their acquaintance and repeating over'and overfU'ain that, ‘ lie was the hondtd! fellow that ever* I met with * ‘ Hufband, quoth fhe, becaufe y*u* have been fo ingenious as tc led me the whole« truth. 1 will give you leave to make a holyday* fdrfthis once : You (hall go to court, and 1 will‘ mal e you as fine as I can.’lo it was agreed that hefliould go the next day,whereoponj an rofe,betimes the next morning, tobrufli up her huioand’s holy day clotht s, and to make- h)in as fnug as ffce could, vvafiied and ironed thelaced band and made his flioes (bine that he mightfee his face in tWcnn ; having done this, fhe madeher hufband rife and put off hit imrt, then fhewafhed him with warm water froia head.'* to foot,patting on him a clean flurt, afterwards flu dreffedhim in his holyday cfothes, pinning bis laewd band7KING 4ND THE COiiLtR.C tl A. P. iV.*Tke Ccbkr's Ktcepthn at Court, with the manner•f bis bebama-.i - before the King.•"pjfE coblcr being tbits fet fcnh, ftrutted thro*the (beets like a ci-ow in n rutrer, thinking,himfelf at fine as the bell of them all: in this man¬ner he came to court, flaring on this body and thatbody as he walked up and down and knowing nobody toalk.for Harry Tudor: At lalt he efpied one,as be thought, in tile habit of a fervant man, to himhe made his addrefs, laying, Doft thou hear, ho*‘ neit fellow, do you know one Harry Tudor, vh0*■ belongs to the court.’4 Yes ’ faid the man, ‘ follow me, and I will*' bring you to him.’With that he had him preftntly up to the guard-chamber, telling or.': of the yocmen of the gut.rd^there was one that enquired for Harry Tudor.,Replied the yoeman I know him Very weH,‘ if you will pleafe to go along with me I will‘ bring you to him immediately.’So the ca’blsr followed the yoeman, much ad*iir-ing the finery of the rooms he went through : andthinking within himfelf that the yoeraan eyns aif-taken in the perfon he enquired *ft«r* For, faid he, the man wlmm 1 look for, is a4 plain merry honeit fellow, hi* name is .flarry1 Tudor, we drank two pots together not long* fince, I fuppofe he may belong to ibme lord or4 other about the court‘ I tell ^ou friend replied the yoeman, 1 know4 him very well, dp you rut follow me and 1 ihall* bring you to l ira Uraight ’ •So going forward, he came to the room wherethe king was, accompanied with feveral of the no*bles.As fopn as the yoeman had put by the nr my heS THE HISTORY OF THEfpoke aloud, faying ‘ INlay it pleafe our Majefty,* Here is one who enquires for Harry Tudor.’ Thevobler hearing this, thought he had committed nolefs than treafon; therefore he up with his heelsand ran for K but not being acquainted w ith the fe-veral turnings end rooms through which he came,he web fooi) overtaken and brought before the king,whom the cooler little thought to be the perfon heenquired after, therefore, in a trembling condition,he fell down upon his knees, faying, ‘ May it pleafe‘ your Grace, may it pleafe your Highnefs, l am a‘ poor cobler, and enquired for one Harry Tudor,* who is a very hon:Il fellow; I mended the heel' of his fhoe not long fince, for which he paid me‘ nobly, and (gave me two pots to boot, but I had4 him ov er afterwards to my cellar, where we drank4 part of a cup of nappy nle, and were very merry,4 until my wife Joan began to grumble, which put4 an end to our merriment for that, time, but f told4 him 1 would come to the court ana fee him as* foon as I conveniently could-’4 Well, faid the king, Be not troubled: wouldf you know this honed fellosv again, if you faw4 him? The eobler replied 4 Yes, that I would* from a thpufand.' Then faid the king, ‘ Stand up,* and be not afraid, look well about you. peradven-* ture, yon may find the fellow in this company..Whereupon the cobler arofe and looked wilhful-iy upon the king and the reft of the nobles, but tolittle or no purpufe, for, though he faw fotaethingin the king’s face which he thought he had feenbefore, yet he could not imagine him to be HarryTudoi', whofe heel of his (hoe he had mended, andwho had been fo merry with him, both in the innand at his own cellar.He therefore told the king, 4 He did not expe«ft‘ to find Harry Tudor among fuch fine folks s hefaw there; but that the perfon he looked for was•' ' ' ' - 5KING AlsD Tilt GOBI Ell. 9* a p’.iin, hontil, and true Icllo-* ; tJc!ir»« withal, that he was fare, did Harry Tudor but* know that he was come to ccujt, he would make‘ him very welcome. A.t which fpeech of the cob-ler’s the king had much ado to forbear laughing outright, but keeping his countenance as fteady as hecould, he faid to the yeoma'’ of the guard, ‘ Here‘ take this honed cobler down into my cellar, ami* let him drink my health, and 1 will give orders‘ that Harry Tudor {ball come »o him prefently.’So away they went, the cobler ready to leap outof his (kin for joy not only that he came fo well off,butalfo that he fliould find his friend Harry fudor.CHAP. V.cobler sentertainment in the king's cellar ; bovsbe met vsitb bis new friend Harry Tudor, andbow be came to know him to be the king,rT1HE cobler had not been long in the king’s cel--*• lar, before theming came to him in the famedrefs and habit, he had on when the cobler mendedhis fboe, whereupon the cobler knew him and ranand killed him, faying, ‘ Honeii Harry, I have4 made a holy day to fee you, but I had much ado4 to get le^ve of my wife, who was loth that Iflio'uid lofe fo much time from my work, but I was■'* refolvedto fee •. u, 1 therefore-uademyfelf as fine‘ as I could; r utIT\ tell ouHarry, whe . I came to4 the court 1 was in a peck of trouble how tp find4 yon out, but at laft > met with a n* n wko told me4 he knew you very Teell and that he would t riiig■* me to > ou, but infie d of doing lo, he brought* me before the king, which affiighted me out of* my feven f- nfes; but good friend, added he, « am1 refolved to e mtiry with you, fince 1 have had* the good fortune of rrettinc with you atro TiTJfjnSTORY TjF THE‘ Ay, that .on {hall, replied the king, weMl be‘ as merry as princes.’ With that he called fora large glaft of wine and drank to the eobler andthe king's good health; faid the cobler, ‘ Honeft* Harry I will pledge thee with all my heart-’ Nowafter the cobler drank four or five good healths, hebegan to be merry, - nd fell s finding his old longsand catches, wh oh pleated the king very much,and made him laugh heartily; when on a fudden,feveral of the nobles came into the cellar, extra¬ordinary rich in apparel, who flood bare at HarryTudor, which put the cob er into a great amazementat firft, but recovering himfelf, he looked more•withfully upon Harr? Tudir, when prelently he.knew him'to be the king, whom he faw in the pre-fence chamber, though^ in another habit. He im¬mediately fell Upon his knees, layiEg. May it‘ pleafe your Grace, Higbnefs, 1 am an honeft poor* cobler and mean no harm.’* No, n® (aid the king, nor fliall you receive any* here ’ He commanded him therefore to rife up,and be as merry as before, andjhot he ihould mbthe fame freedom with him as he did before, whenhe mended the heel of his (hoe. This kind Ipeechof the kind's . nd three or four glades of more wine,made the cobl r to be jn asgopd humour as he wasbefore; telling th« king ieveral of his pretty dories,and tinging lb me of ins. be.' longs, very much tothe fatisfo ition of the king and his nobles.The COBLER-s SONG in the KING'S Cellar.Tune—Jennt Gin.C IMF. let us drink the other pot.Our furrows to confound :■We'll Hugh aad fing before the king,. So let hi* health go round.KL\G AND THS COaLER.1 UFor I’m is bold as bold can be,No cobler e*er was ruder,Then here, good fellow, here** to thee.Remember tlarry Tudor.When Pm at work within my ftal!,Upon him I fliall think :His kindnefs I to mind will callV\' hen‘er I eat or drink.His kininefs was to me fo ^reat.The like was never known ;His kindnefs l will ftill repeat.And fo Ansll my wile Joan.Pll laugh when ! fit in my Hall,And merrily 1 will fing;That I with my poor 1 aft and awl,Am lellow with a king.But it is more I muft coafefs.Then I at firft did know.But Harry Tudor ne'erthelefiuRefolv‘d it Humid be fo»And farevrel unto Whitehall,I homewaud mnft retire.To fing and whittle in my ftall.My wife will me defire.I do but think h«w Hie will laugh,Ween ihe hears of this thing.How he who drank her nut-brown altWas England4* royal King.C H A. i’ VI.7/<su> the Gaoler became * Counter.,M'rlTv the king confidfring the pleafant humour^ of the cobler, how innocently men-;, lie wrs,and free from any defigm : that he was a per-fon tliat laboured very hard and took a g't«t .ealof _psins for a (mail livelihood, was } loafed, outsi TriE HISTjRY OF TiiEof his princely grace t nd favour, to allow him aliberal aattuity of forty raerks a year for betterfupport ot his jo% humour, and. the raatainanceof his wife Joan, and that he ihould be admittedone of hi* courtiers, and mi^ht have freedom ofhis cellar whenever he pleated: whichbeingfo muchbeyond expedlation, did high'y exalt the coblcr'ehumour, much to the fatisfa&ion of the king.P A dl T II.CHAP. I.Of the Coble r'-s return from court, to'bis wife f ten,and the comical dijcottrfe that pa[l between them.Mriftophcr Crifpin, for fo was tbe*cobler named,^ with whom Kins? Henry the Eight had madehimfelf fo exceeding familiar: thiscobler, I fay,hav-ing been at conrt where he made much mirth, andWas much made of on account of that mirth, re¬turned home in the afternoon full fraughted withwine, and wonderful expectations; hu heart andhead being ight,- he went caperm.;; along, flingingup his cap, crying ‘ Long live Harry Tudor long‘ live Harry Tudor,’ with a hundred boys at hisheels, hooping an 1 hallowing; his wife Handingat the door, and feeing him prancin • along in iuchu pdlture, immediately pne on one of her aocuftom.ed crabbed look's, crying 4 High, tittie, ^iiat’s* come to you now? ill Many Tudor you with a* Vengeance ? was it for this that T dreil you up in4 pimlico, in all your belt apparel, to have you* come home like one ju!l om of Bedlam ?’ * Peace,4 wife, qaoth the cooler, for, I am upon perfer*4 ment, 1 am promiled to be made a courtier, th.it* I am. ‘ y courtier, quoth Joan, ads-foot, more* likely a tutkold, you drunken fcoundril.’KINTO AND Ttl £ COB-Lf U; 13‘ Nav, quoth the cobkr, You muft know tha^it is from you that I mull have that favour, if‘ be conferred upon ae. Geafe -our prattiug>quoth Joan, and get you to bed, tlrt you may rile‘ in the morning and fall to your bulinefs, for‘ this wicked courfe of lite will never do.’ Withthefe an : other lik« reprimands, the conquered poorCrifpin, who for quietnefs lake, forthwith went tobed; where we will leave him to take his reft*Let us now return to the court and fay fomethingof what part between the king queen, and nobles,relating to that day’s comical adventure.CHIP. II.How the Queen upon bearing much mirth at Courttcame voitb her maias op honour to know tbe oaufetboreof, and bow cardinal Wolfey, tbe proud pre¬late, curbed the King, for being, as be faid, toofree with a poor Cobler.VT O W it is to be noticed, that the eobler wasno fooner gone, but.the king with his nobles,began to renew their mirth, by rehesrfing the ma-ny comical fancies an ! pleafant pranks with whichthe cobler entertained diem ; and what added themore to their recreation and (port w. s a certainlord, who put himfelf into a country habit, and i-raitated the cobler fo to the life, that toe king andthe relt of the nobles f 11 into a fit of laughter,which laded for a considerable time without anyinfermiflion; whereupon the queen with her maidsof honour, came to enquire into che caufe of fuchgeneral mirth4 ‘ My leig, faid the queen, I‘ui glad to hear you* and your nobles fo merry ; and wou d ne as glad‘ to knew what fancies have been the qcealion* of fo much laughter.’ ‘ bf Lady, quoth the‘ king, we have had the company of a comical Qob-* ler, the like of whoas never csi»e ie court fincci KING TME COBLER.* the c«nqueft , for his downright honeft fimplicity* has afforded as much palVime.’ Then faid thequeen, * I wiih I had been there to have been p«r-* taker of this mirth.’ Then the king replied, ‘ It* may not be teo late as yet; for l will contrive‘ with dfe very firft opportunity to 3[ive you a fight4 of hiia under fome difguife; by which we will4 foon have new proofs of his pleafant paftime.'But the* faid the proud prelate Cardinal Wol-fey, 4 How do thefe frolick* agree with your king-ly dignity ? what will your friends and allies fay,when they will hear how you converle and takepleafmre in the company of a poor cobler?* Why,faid the king, ‘ Wolley, have yeu not heard of theindultrioos bee, that ex trails honey as well from themeanil flowers, as the richeft bloflbms ? and if fo,why may not 1 experieace the fidelity of my peopleby converting with a poor cobler, asw^tl as i mayby the crafty policy of a proud cardinal.This choak pear flopped the mouth of eardiaa lWolfey, whtlft the king, queen and nobles, purfuedtheir mirth t6 the height of their fatisia&ion.G H A. P. III.Hawlbe Cobler the next morning was tbunder-Jlruckby his <wife, and bow, itp*n Jitigiug a new fong:Pwhich be bad madejbe once toskbtm to coraw-no.bis. IVitb many other things, very remarkable*'S7 U may remembet how the cobler at his fro-* lickfome return home from court, was fummo-ned to bed ’ by the ilriil orders of Joan his com¬manding w fe, where befleptfecure till towards themorning when flic fuddenly made him Hart with athunder clap of, ‘ Thou drunken fwine, and whim-4 fical wobd-co :k, is it not time to rife? T this theourfe of life you intend to lead?’ at which wordspoor cobler awakened, and that he might get®f the hearing of this certain le&ure, he leapedKING AND TRK COBLttR. «5out of bed. put on his clothes, and his c^nfiderina;cap ,• fo porting atrav to his Hall, he fell to werkupon his old fhoes and boots as fierce as a fury,and as blythe as a bird in the returning fpring;pleartng his fancy with a fong of his own making.HIS SONG.THOUGH now I Gt within my ftall.Old faces and flippers mending,I to the court (ha1! have a call,There's hope depending.I do not value crufty J pan.Though once in tears I woo<d her,J have the favour, ’tis well known,Of honefl Harry Tudor ;Re gives rae forty merks a year.Which is a deal of treafure tBefnles all this there is fiO fear .Of having courtly pelalure.I wilh old Joan the would die,Though once with tears I wood her :I‘d go to court and there live byMy dear friend Harry Tudor.Now chilli the cobler was ranking himfelf merrywith finging this new made long, Joan fuddeni»chop‘d upon him, and h«ai in/ him mention thencmc of Tudor, falures him in this manner, 4 Out‘ you drunken fcoundril are ye going a Tuierinp it4 again, I thought >e had got enough yefterday.4 Come down to breakfnll, you b!ock.hencU’ Withthat he imme lately follows her like a patient nan,whift flie continued feolding in this manner, 4 I4 need not alk you whether or not you r.et with‘ your pot companion, for l think you gave rte full4 enough pro*f that you did by the drunken con*4 dition you came home in ; I think you told me he4 was ibmething of a .courtier bnt-I rather take him4 to be a carman or.a drunken porter, Pray whwe4s15 THE HISTORY 0\’ THE‘ the money yon carried out with you? you h^d4 fourpence halfpenny of u,e that 1 let yt>u have4 out of m\ own pocket, becaufe I would have you4 appear like a man ; arvi befxdes what you took4 of Johnlon the old joiner, and tikewife of Simion4 Soufecrown the fadler for two pair of heelpiece?,4 undnoweome let me fee what you have left?* a-las, laid the cobler, 4 'Ay friend was fo far fr*m* letting me fpeni any thin,! that he has given me4 what may be the making of us both.’ ‘ Why* huflband, quoth Joan, What has he given you ?4 Why, to tell you the truth, my fweet wife, he has4 fettled forty merk > on you and me, and as a fure* token of his goodnefs, he has given me thefe two* broad pieces of gold.’ J f) me! quoth Joan, did4 thy friend give thee al this? Well, God’s blefling4 on his loving heart he‘s an honed fellow 111 wrar-4 rant him.’ ‘ Who do you call fellowl quoth her* hufband, he that is fo particular a friend of mine‘ i» no worl'e a perfon than our gracious KingHen-4 rf, end, were he to hnow what you have faid of4 him tome, you might happen to dine upon the4 fruit of hemp feed by which ! might be rid of a4 flirew ’ ‘ Sweet bulband, quoth Joan, pardon‘ what I have faid through my ignorance, and never‘ divulge my unfortunate fayings as you love me,4 and I will never call you ill names for the future,4 during my life.’ 4 B:-fure, quoth he yoskeepyour* promife, and I will allure y ou that all will be wellflsw tne King tosk to bimftlj the title of a 1 armer,and come to the Cobier to fell bint a piece oj lea¬ther y and bow the in the difguife of a coun¬try maid, puffedfor his kinswoman, vbb wantedfervice, with other p off ages of very much mirth*IT' IMG Henry, as ou have he;rd promifed the^ Queer, that fhe Ihould be accommodated withKING AND THE GOBLER. 17ionic of the coblcr’s figaries, now hi* care was howto make good hi* promife; that is to fay, how he■ight bring himfelf into the cobler’s company with*out the honeft cobler knowing who he was. Manythoughts came into his head, but amongft the reft,one he refolves upon, wich is this, I he 1 ing fendsa man and a horle down into the country, there tobuy leather fit for fiioe-makers, and to fend it toLondon by the carrier, who came to the fame inn,,which was over a^ainft the forefaxd cobler. Thiswas accordingly done; the king in the habit of aplain country man came to the inn with his queen,who, in the drefs of an innocent country maiden,paft for his.kinfwoman; he patfing for a tanner thatwas come to receive and fell the leather; the kinghaving paid the carrier for bringing his parcel,calls for fome of the beft liquor the houfe afford*ed; which being brought, he alked the inn-keeperwhather or not he coyld help him to a chapman.for,his leather; who anfwered, ‘ There is an hontft‘ lellow of a cobler over the way, 1‘11 fend for him,4 he4Jl either buy it, or help you to a chapmen for* it no doubt.’ Then the king laid, Pray thee fend* for him.’ Whereupon the cobler was called, whocame capering like a morice-dsneer, hying,4 Who4 wants roe?’ 4 This gentleman, faid the inn-keeper,4 he has a parcel of leather to ftlh’ 4 1*11 buy it,4 faid the cofcler, if it he for my tu n. Now haV*ing looked over he afked thetprice : the king notknowing what it was worth, afeed him forty fnti¬lings. * Harry! qv.oth he, i wifh you fray have‘ come homirl\ bje it, for though ] am the buyer,4 I mud tell you it is worth a ^reat derd more.*4 That is r either heie roi there, faid the king, I4 am for felling it off, which when I have done, Idon t think to deni in leather fot the future_any‘ more, for 1 am fi r a place at the couth, and this4 young tpaid my kin fy. on-an, is lift wife defireuai8 THK HI30TRV OF; THE'* to wait on fome lady ’ 4 Mary, quoth the co&-4 ler if it be fo, perhaps I may do yo» a piece of‘ fervice, for as frmple as ! fit here: though I fay4 it my ft If, i i m well acquainted with the king;4 and as you feeri to have both >iood hunt ft faces,* [ do protcft 1 will do you all the good I can, that* ! will; and therc*s my hard on the fame.* 4 Thou4 fay eft well, quoth the king, and If thou do me4 any kindnefs, 1 do not m&t'er if I give thee that4 leather as a reward of thy goodneis, and fo here's4 to the-e.’ 4 I thank thee/ quoth the cabler, andby the time he had drunk three or four caroafes,his heart grew light, and he told the kin^ he wouldfing him a fong of his own making. Ht which thequeen, when flic heard it, laughed heart! y; for hehid many jokes, and pleafant fongs ; he delightedthe queen more than any thing fhe hadfeen or metwith in her life.., At length it grew towards noon,the cdbler was for going with them towards thecourt; but he muft drefs himfelf, for lie would notappear before the king in his coblex-s clothes, forall the fiioes in his fhop.C H A P. V,Hew the King invitedibe Cob*r aad bit -wife t$-dinner, mid the difpourfc that pajfed thereupon.'X’HE cobler being gone, the king turned himfelf•*- to the queen, faying, 4 How like you theconverfation ®f this comicalGrifpin? The queenfaid, 4 right well, belides i fee fomething of a prin-4 ciple in him, which in say judgment, feems to out-4 fhine his poverty ; for, my leige when you offered4 the leather to him at alpw price he let you know4 it was worth much more, and therefore was loth4 to meddle with it, fearing you came not honeftly4 by it, and what 1 obferVed ia him is that he had4 a Jght heart, briflt and merry; ami for ought I4 know, enjoys mors happinefs in his courfe and 'XiNG AND THE COBLEAr* homely cottage, then a courtier, or a colonelwith all their great aceompltfhnu* Not too much of that,’ quoth the king, * for‘ I well remember thst when be had me down io-« to his lower cellar t® drink a cup af nappy ale,i and ate feme of his bread and cheefe, all an a‘ fudden M.j wife, Joan began to roafe from her‘ night's red, and 1 found he began to be afraid ;4 for he faid, Friend, you mud be gone; I would« not that Joan my wife ftiould catch you here, no4 not for all the fhocs in ray fliop. And thereupan‘ rather than the cobler diou d be cudgelled by hi*‘ wife, got away-with ns great fpesd as might be ** My leige,’ faid th* queen. ‘ you were hard put4 to it.* In troth,’ quoth the king, ‘ fo I was.*Than with 9 imile her mzjefty faid, ‘ I would wii-* lingly fee her.’ * Sht flia 1 be fent for,* faid theking, and thereupon called the innkeeper to letthem know wh^t he would let them have%r din¬ner i who told them lie had a fhoulder of rnnU*n,tvhieh flieuld be ready in half an hour.‘ I hat will do,’ faid the king, * and therefore* call the cobler and his wife, for I defire they may* both dine with rae.’ The innkeeper having de¬livered his sieflage, Joan letup a railing, faying,* Wbat lot is this that has ftnt for you now ; I‘ fliall have you drunk rgain, that 1 liiall-** Why, quoth the cohler, did you not tell me4 the other day that you would never fcold me a-« gain, if I would but keep your couafel, and do‘ you 1 egin already ? Go put on your beft red pet-4 ticoat and waifLoat whilft l drefs myfelf, for I* do not know but we may take a walk to court af-‘ ter dinner; and it will Li. for your credit to fee* the king in your beft apparel,’ New Joan havinga fear for what fie had formerly faid. doubting thathe might out with ah, poor creature, fho was fainto breile her unrul; tongueJ andturn her crabbed20 T' E H'S 'ORY OF THEfrowc into a fweet and pleal^nt imile ; ail with <?-bedience to her hulh^nd, {he made herftif as fine asa London milk rraid upon a May day, and Crifpinlike wife bruflted up his bea d and then went overwith Joan as pert as a ptat mongir. The king tak.ing the giafs drank to the cobler’s wife, who fitn-pering like a firmity kettle, faid, [ th,,nk you dir.Then psfling it to her hulband, he filled up a bum*per, and drank to the queen, with this compliment,* Young woman you are. welcome to London and* 1 don t queftion but to help you to a lervice that‘ may be to your hem’s contentMow by the time the giafs had gone round, din¬ner was ready, the cobltr craved leave to fay thegrace: it'Was fliort, and when tnded,theking carv¬ed for the queen and. hinvfeif, and ba^e the coblerand his wife do the like; Quoth Joan, ‘i know my•htriband is for the cugkold s bit, and fo here it is* let linn have it4 At which laying, the king andqueen imiled, her mojelty being much more pieafedwith the mirth than the meat, fed fparingly; atwhich the cobler merrily (aid, ‘Young woman,' if*'jou come to dine with the fervents of a noble-4 man’s family, adfuks, you mull lay abo it you bet-4 ter than you do, or they will make you as fat as4 a hen in the forehead ,With this and the like difeourfe they pnfled a-way the time for an hour, and the king and queenwithdrew into another room there to confult a-bout fmillnng the comical adventure.CHAP. VI.the Cobkr in as put in fear of bis life% andbow be came of with flying colours.XT O YV the king had formerly tola the fecreturyof date, that he would fend his royal fignetto him, by a medenger, wiiom he Qiould fecure iuorder to give an account, upoa examination, howR! vg A.MD THE GOBLER. athe came by it. W herefo're he prefemrty calls forpen inic and paper, and writes the letter, whereinhe indofes the fignet aforeC.ul; and having/lireCl.ed the letter, he defired the coblcr to carry it, ivhowa ready tolerve him. Now Joan was refolved togo with him, and did fo becajifeflie would ketp himfrom being drunk.They had »o fooner gone out, but the king cul¬led for the reckoning, and having paid it;^ he andhis queen went privately by water to their p dace,where they pulled of their difguife, and appearedin their royal apparel; the king with hia nobles,and the queen with her maids of honour By thistime the cobier and his wife delivered the letter tothe fecretary, who opened the fame feeraed toftartle and with a frowning countenance, faid4 Behold here is .the king’s iignet; how came you4 by it!‘‘ Why,4 fay the cobler,4 I had thp letter, and4 whatever was in it I know not, only 1 had the‘ letter from a tanner.1 The fecretary replied,‘ if you do not bring the tanner to me, take my‘ word for it, we (ball make an example of you.4-4 Why,1 quoth Jo n, k you will not bang my huf-r* band will ye?‘ quoth the fecretary, ‘ it will' ** go hard with him if he do not find the tan_4 ner’4 111 fetch ira prefently quoth Joan. ButCuming to the inn, and .nding they were gone,poor Joan fell int a violent fit of the tanteri ms,.tearing her hair and wringing her hands, cr, ing,4 What will become of »«y poor cobler, he will4 be hanged ’ ' fior what? laid the innkeeper;but Joan had not the patience to tell him her la¬mentation, crying, ‘ O the tanner O the tanner,4 O the tanner is gone! ‘ and in this conditionraving like a fury, or like a lunatick perfon brokenout of bedlam; the ran back again to Weltmintlerwith a multitude of men, women and children after« THE HISTORY OF THEher, who wmnted ,0 know the caufe; but J»an ces-tinued, crying » O the tanner is gone ! and my* poor Crifpin what will become of thee?’ Whichwor.!« her nufband heard juft as {he was enteringthe door; he cried, < Dear Joan, have sou brought* them with you ?' With me, quoth Joan, No,* no ; they are r on®, and you are left to fuffer:* now it had been better for you to mind your* work, than to follow every one lhat fends for* you now you may fee what you have brought* yourfelf to; nothing would ferve you, it feems,* the other day, but to be a courtier, fuch was* your ambitious fancy; but let me tell you if4 they have a fancy to hang y#u, that I may fay* you have made fine work on’t, and I doubt not* but it will be a warning to you for the future;« I cannot but think now like a courtier you look* now in this melanchelly condition.’Whil?. flic was thns iafulting poor Crifpin, theking was told of thefe tranfa&ions, and there;orefent that he might be brought before him, whichwas accordingly done ; bat as tne coblcr approach¬ed the prefence of the king, every joint of himtrembled, for he expe&ed to find n® favour. Nowhe came before the kin r. who, with an angry coun-tena»ee faid, * cobler, how came you by my fig.« pet?’ The poor eobler falling on his knees, andwringing his hands cried, ‘ May it pleafe your‘ G ace, may it pleafe your honour, 1 had it from* a tanner, who fent for »e to the Bell, in the« Strand, to buy a parcel of leather he had brought« out of the country.’ And whereupon he told theking the whole ftory, from the beginniog ot theirMeeting till his fending him away with the letter.The king replied, * This is a pleafant ftory, andc well compa&ed together but it feems you can*4 not produce this tanaer, wherefore i’U leave jouiTHE HISTORY OF TIIK a3 '* to the law, and if you are hanged according to‘ law,you raufl: take it for your pains.*Joan, hearing ahe talk of hanging, fell upon herknees, crying, * Good -dr King, pray Sir King,‘ don’t hang my poor Criff in, I feefeech yon, he is* an honed man, and has but one fault * ‘ What‘ fault is that? quoth the king ’ ‘ May it pleafe4 your grace,’ quoth Joan, 4 he wilj^ot be ruled by4 his wife, but is always ready to run away like a* menkey after any man who wil l give him drink.’4 Thats neither here nor there, faid the king, he* mud uie; neve^thelefs, as you have begged that* he may not be hanged, upon the word of a king-* he (hail net, but [ will allow him the favour to4 chufe his own death.** Why then, quoth the cobler, let me die the* death of my father and great grandfather.* How4 was that ?’ quoth the kiny. 4 It was on a death-* bt d and in a good old age.’ At which choice ofthecobler’s the kiug, queen,and the Nobleslaugrhedvery heartily,and Crilpin and his wife, bythe king’scommand, were looked up in a room half an hour,there to attend the king’s further plealure.No feoner were they again confuted, but the cob¬ler, with a trembling voice, faid, 4 .Sweet wife, 14 wonder ; hat the king intends to do with usnow.*Quoth Joan,4 pray thee be of comfort, I am per-1 iuaded that the king is the Tanner, and the4 queen is the Ifmswoman. 4 Adsfoot have a care4 of what you fay, I (hah have you fpesk treafon.4 and then we (hall both be handed 1’faith after all.’4 Fear not hufbandr ■ can fee a* far into a milftone4 as he that picks it, I am fure tho' they changed* their appa el, they would not change their com*‘ plexion.’ Whilif theb were in this difpute, the4 King and queen dreffed in their former difgaife,entered the room, attended b- nobles and maids ofhonour; at which tlie king, (aid Crifpin, fence yen* 24 TiiK HIST' >RY OF. See.could not fcni the tanner, l have brought him toyou. \t which words he fell on his knees an Jcried.Longlive our graciousfovereignkinland queenWho did their royal perfons fo deucan,As in familiar fort to joke with us.And I rejoice- to find it is no worfe.* Arife ho reft cobler,1 quoth the King, ‘ and* merry be thy heart l have tried thy patience,* and will prove thy friend and thy forty merks* per annm, which l formerly gave thee, lhall be* much more by my bosnty.1Thou (ha t have fifty pounds a-year in land.Which lies upon the fouth fide of tlie Strand ;1 am the royal giver, thou the taker,And l will have it calhd the cobler‘s- Acre. *Poor Crifpintand his wife were tranfported withjoy at this glorious comin r off and the more at thequeen‘s gift, which was a purfe of gold. They thenprefented the court with a comical farce, called.T/be Forked Friends or the Fiddler and bis Wife.,wherewith they fiaiiked the day, to the great joyof all the beholders. Beingdilmiffed,with great ap-palufe the cobrer and Joan returned home, where,in a fhort time he built a row of honfes, calling theplace, "The Cobler's-Acre, according to the kind’srequeft ; which nam continued after theCobler‘8death but at this time it is turned a more magnifi¬cent building, and has loll it‘s former name.Yet during life the Coble; at the court.Was well belovd and freely entertain'd,Wh ere he afforded much delightfu fport,So long as Harry Tudor iivdand reign'd.The King died firft, the Cobler ^followed after,Butnot tillhebai oftenfill'd the coart witblaughterFINIS.