kmperor lviliA N' D HISVIRTUOUS WIFE,: i Story taken from Antient Hiftpry.GLASGOW,RINTED BY J. & M. ROBERTSON,S^tniarket, i8oo-Hare Virtue got it’s jujl reward,‘Tho’ coji the Fair much pain ;Ai you Jhall quickly underjland,IVben you pcrvfs thefame.*!> >&**&+>%* ■* ^ 4' *^vTHEH I S T O R YO Fx I i-Iviaiialay and his Cruel Brother $;o Rj THECHASTE EMPRESS,ii?|J N Rojuc there oace dwelt a mightyil -Erapefor named-Manalay, wlidihad wedde4 the King’s Daughter of.Hungaria, a fair lady and grateful in,all her works, especially {lie was mer-cifuh On a time as the Emperor layin his bed, lie bethought hi ml elf thajjhe would go viht the Holy La.nd.,And cn the morrow, he called to hnTiothe Eaiprefs his wife, ard his own1only brother, and thus he laid: DearISady, I paay not, nor will not hide:3: irom you the privities of my lieftrt, jUurpofe vilit the Holy Land,[lore, i ordain thee principally to bejp.dy and Governefs oyer all my Em-riire, and all my people; and undermee 1 ordain here my brother to bemy Steward, and to provide all thingsjfiat may be prohcable to my empireIjnd my people.H Then faid the Emprefs, fince it willto otherwdfe be, but that thou '7;’,it: eed go to vifit the City ^ Jerufa-■m, 1 lhall be in your dofer.ce as trims any turtle that h.as lod her materjpr as I believe ycu lhall not efcap iiience with your life.The Emperor tlmn comforted her’*jlhli fair words and killed her, andSjiter Mat took his leave of her andP erhers, and went to the City ofjfEtifabm.I And anon after the Emperor was>ne, his brother became fo proud,at he oppreiTed poor men and robbed:h men; and he did worfe than this,r he daily ftirred the Emprefs tommit fm v/ith him: Bat ever an-ered again as an holy and devout)man', and faid, I will (quoth die)*.4tnever confent to you nor to any otheias long as my Lord liveth; neverthe-kis, this Knight would not leave ofwith this anfv?cr, but ever when hefound Lor alone, he made his com¬plaint to her, and flin*ed her by all theways that he could to fm with him.When this Lady faw that he wouldnot ceafe for any anfwer, nor wouldnot amend himfell; when Ihe faw her-time, the caued to her thiee or foui o£the wo, ddeft men of the empire, and•faid to thecn .thus : is it: not known toipou, that my Lord the Emperor or-dained me principal Governor of this-* Empire, and has aHo ordained his-brother to be Steward midsr me, and1 liar he (hould do nothing xithour mycounfe], but he doth ail conaary, forhe oppreffeth great!v poor men, andlike wife robbeth the rich : And yet her/culd do more than this if he imgnthave his intent; wherefore 1 commandyen in my Lord’s name, that you bind,him, fah and cafl him into prifori.Then faid they, inaftnuch as he:hath done many evil deeds iince ourLofd the Emperor went away, There¬fore we are ready to obey your com- v5or, the Chafte Emprefs.,niands, but ia this matter you mult^nTwer for us to our Lord the Emperor-Then faid fhe, dread ye not, if my-iord knew what'he hath done as wellis i, he would put him to the fouleltdeath that could be thought, iriome*diately thcfe men laid hands on him,tad bound him fait with iron chains ,land put him into prifon, where he.lay a long time after, tiii at iaft it^happened, there came tidingsfthat the.jEmperor was coming home, and had.obtained great renown and vidlery.IVhen his brother heard of his com¬ing, he faid, I would to God, my(brother might not find me in prifon,ll'or if he do, he wiil enquire the cauf:of my imprifonmen: of the Empreif,and ihe will tell him all the truth how1 moved her to commit fm, and fojon her account J ihali have no favour[of my brother; but lofe my life; thisjiknow i well: Therefore it lliall not|be lo. Ihen lent he a ineffeoger untothe Emprefs, praying her, that ihewould vouchlafe to come to the or;--1 Ion door, that he might fpeak a wordor two with her.The Emprefs came to him, and en-2;•-juir-ed of'him what he would hive ? iMe anfwered and laid, O Lady', have: *mercy upon me, for rf the Emperormy brother find me in prifoo, then, [ijball i die without any remedy.. Then faid the Emprei's, if 1 mightImow that thou won'deli be a goodman, and leave thy folly, thou (houhi-it it find grace. Then did he promifeHer affuredly to be true, and amendall his trefpafFes. When he had thuspromifedj the Emprefs delivered himanon, and made him to be bathedand lhaven, and apparelled him wor¬thily according To Ins date, and thenihe laid unto l.ira thus. Now Good-brother, take thy iieed and come withme, that we may meet my Lord. Heanfwered and laid, Lady, l am readyto fulfil your will and commandmentin all things, and then the Emprefstook him with her and many otherKnights, and fb rode forth to meetthe,Emperor : And as they rode toge¬ther by the way, they faw a great hartrun before them, wherefore every manwith fuch hounds as they had, chafedhim on horfe-back, fo that with theEmprefs was left no creature fave on-or, the Cba&e Kmprefs. 7y the Emperor’s brother, who .feeinghat r.o coan was there but they two,I bus he fkid unto the Em-prefs t Lo,Lady, here is nigh us a private foreil,and long it is ago that I ipeke to theebf love, come now and ccnfent untothe, that 1 may lie with thee.Then laid the Emprefs, Ah! fool,yhat may this be ! ye herd ay 1 deliver¬ed thee out of prifon upon thy prc-ixife in hope of amendment, and newIhou art returned to thy folly again,llplierefore 1 fay now unto thee, as [pave haicl befe»i'e, there {half no man'||o fucipa thing with me; lave only myLord the Emperor, which he ought»f' veiy duty to do. Them faid he. Ifhou wilt not confent to me, ! ilialltang thee here upon a tree in thisreft, where no man (hall find thee,nd fo fhali thou die an evil death,he Emprefs vsnfwered meekly andlid, though thou fmite off my head,r put me to death with all mannerf torments, thou (halt never have myordent to filch a fin.When he heard this, he unclotheder all five her frnoek, and liangedrr up by the hair upon a tree, and8 Man alay and his cruel Brother,tied her deed before her, and fo rodsto his fellows, and told them that ;great holt of men met him, and toolthe Emprefs away from him, ancwhen he had told them thir, they a|made c lamentation.it betel on the third day after, thencame an Earl to hunt in that to re ftand as he rode beating the bidhes, h<unkennels a fox, vrhich his hound!followed faft, till they came near tintree where the Emprefs hanged. Amv/hen die dogs fmelt the favour of herthey left the fox, and r^n towards th«tree as firft as they could.dhe Earl,, feeing this, wonderecgreatly, and fpurring his horfe, followed them, hill he came where th*Emprefs hanged, when the Earl fauher thus hanging, fie marvelled greatly, for as much as ihe was right farand beautiful to behold ; whereforehe fakbunto her in this wife: O v;ciiman who art thou? and of what ccuntry ? and wherefore hangeft thou herin this manner ?The Emprefs that was not yet fifth.dead, but at point ready to die, an ifwered and find, I am (quoth ihe) . iEmprefs.range woman, and am come out ol;far" country, but how I came hither,dod knoweth. Then anfwered thtrI arl, and faid, wliofe horfe is this that|andeth by thee bound to this tree ?'hen anfwered the Lady, and faid,nat it was hers. When the Earl heardlbs, he faw well that flie was a gen¬ii ewoinan, and come of noble lineage,t herefore be was the rather movedith pity, and faid unto her, O fairady, thou feemeft of noble blood, andherefore, 1 purpofe to deliver theeom this mifehief, if thou wilt pro¬life to go with me, and nourilla mydr young daughter, and teach-herhome in my qafUe, for I have noild but only her, and if thou keeper well, thou Hr alt have a good rewardhr thy labour. Then, faid die,jjir forth as 1 can or may, 1 ihall ful-your intent. And when fhe hadaus promifed him, he took her downthe tree, and led her home to hisdie, and gave her the keeping of hisaugliter, that he loved fo much, andle was cherifhed fo well, that fhe layvery night in fhe Earl’s chamber,nd his daughter with her: And inthe clumber every night there burnea lamp, which hanged between tl:Emprefb’s *ed and the Earl’s bedThis Lady behaved herfelf fo gentlythat fhe was beloved of every ere;ture. There was at that time in tbEarl’s houfe, a Steward, who lovemuch this Emprefs, and often fpokto her of his love. Hut (he an Ever ehim again, and faid, Know dear frienc jfor a certainty, that I will never lovany man in fuch a manner, but cnlhim, whom 1 am greatly bound tlove by God’s commandments.Then faid the Steward, Then thowile not confent unto me ? (Sir quoddie,) what need you any more to ailfuch things ! The vow that I havmade I will truely keep, and hold bthe grace of God.And when the Steward heard thishe went his way in great wrath anangef, thinking within himfelf, if,may, I (hail be revenged on thee.it befel upon a night within ihortime after, that the Earl’s chamberdoor was forgotten and left unfhutwhich' the Steward had anon perceivcd. And when they were all a deepor, the Chaste Emprefs. 11lie went and fpkd by the light of thelamp where the Emprefs and the maid-den Jay together, and with that hedrew out his knife, and cut the throatof the Earl’s Daughter, and .put theknife into the Emprefs’s hand: (hebeing aileep, and not knowing there¬of, to the intent that when the hartawaked, he fliould think that (hehad cut his Daughter’s throat, and fowould {he be put to a lliapieful deathfor this mifchievous deed. And whenthe damfel was thus {lain, and thebloody knife in- the Emprefs’* hand,the Countefs awaked out of her deep.,and faw by the light of the lamp,the bloody knife in the Emprefs’shand, wherefore fhe was a{moft outof her wits, and faid, to the Earl, Omy Lord ! Behold in yonder Lady’shand, a wonderful tiling.The Earl awaked, and looked to¬wards the Emprefs’s bed, and faw thebloody knife, as the Countefs had faid;Wherefore he was greatly moved, andtried to her, and laid,. Awake womanout of deep, what thing is this that Ifee m thy hand : Then the Emprefsthrough his cry, awaked out of her12 Masday and his cruet Brother,fleep, and in her waking, the knife-fell out of her hand, and with thatfhe looked by her, and found theKarl’s daughter dead by her fide, andall the bed befprinkled with blood,wherefore with an high voice fhe cri¬ed, and faid, Alas ! alas ! and woe isme. My Lord’s daughter is /lain.Then cried the Countefs unto theEarl, with a piteous voice, and faid,O my Lord, let this deviiifh womanbe put to the fouleft death that can bethought, which hath thus flain ouronly child. ,Then when the Countefs had thusfaid unto the Earl, he faid to the Em-prefs in this wife. The high Godknoweth, that thou mifchievous wo¬man, hail flain my daughter withthins own hands, for 1 law the bloodyknife in thy hand, and -thereforetho& fhalt die a foul death. Thenfaid the Earl in this wife; O thou wo¬man, were it not 1 dread God great-.!y, I fhould cleave thy body with myfvvord in two parts, for 1 delivered theefrom hanging, & now thou haft flainrny daughter, nevertheiefs, from methou lb ah have no harm, therefore£0 thy way out of this city without , i .i.ny delay, for if I find thee liere afterIhis day, thou flialt die a moft cruelleath.Then arofe this woeful Emprefs,Ind put on -her clothes, and afterea'pt on her palfrey, and rode toward: he eaft alone without any fafe con-J| itufl; and as me rode thus, mourning>y the way, fhe efpyed on the leftide of the way, a pair of gallows,jnd feven officers, leading a man tobe hanged, wherefore (he was movedwith great pity, and finote her horfevith her flick, and rode up to them,. graying them, {he might redeem thatinifdoer, if be might be laved from .leath by any means.Then find they, Lady, It pleafethis well that you redeem him. An-on, the Simprefs accorded with themInd paid his ranibm and he was de-ivered.7 hen laid flie to him. Now my•ood friend, be true to me,’till thoulie, fince I have delivered .thee fromleath.]| On my foul (quoth he) I promife■rou ever to be true. *And when he^^iwanaTa^nTOi^nienirotne!% "had thus faid, he followed the Lady’rill they came near a city, and the:faid'the Emprels to him ; good friencigo forth thy way before me into thcity, and fee thou take up for us a:honeft lodging, for there 1 purpofe treft a while. Her man went forth aihie commanded, and took up for he ia good and an honed lodging, wherfhe abode a long time When thmen of the city perceived her beaut)they wondered greatly, wherefore many of them craved of her uniawfulove, but all was in vain, for theymight not fpeed in any wife.It.happened after upon a day, thathere came a {hip full of merchantdize, and arrived in the haven of thacity : When the Lady heard this, fhfaid unto her fervant, Go to the fhipand fee if there be any cloth-for uvufe. /Her fervant went forth to the {hip!where he found many very fine cloth swherefore he prayed the mailer of thfliip, that he would come into tincity, and fpeak with his Lady. Tn«mafter granted him, and fo the ferv ncame home to his Lady before, ant^~warned her of the coming of the mas¬ter of the Oiip. Soon after the maffcerof fire fhip came and faluted her cour-teoudy: And the Lady received him1 according to ins degree, praying himthat fne might have for her moneyfuch cloth as might be convenient forher wearing. Then he granted thatdie Oiould have any thing that fhqliked, an! foon thev .were agreed,wherefore the fervant went immedi¬ately again >dth the matter of the ttiipfor the clo;h. And when they wereboth within on fhip-board, the matterfaid to the Lady’s fervant: My dearfriend, to thee 1 would open my mind,if l might truft to thee, and if thouhelp me, thou ihait have of md agreat reward. Then anfwered he,cud faid : I dull (quoth he) be fworn, to thee to keep thy counfel, and ful¬fil thine intent as far forthwith as Ican.Then fa/id the matter of the diip, Ilove thy Lady more than l can tell thee,for her beaytity and feature is fo exeei-.lent,'that 1 would give for the love of\ her, all the gold that I have : And ifL I may obtain the love of her through22.16 Manalay and his cruel Brother,thy help, 1 will give thee whateverthou wilt defire of me.Then faid the Lady’s fervant, Tellme by.what' means I may help thee.—Then faid, the mailer of the flip, gohome to thy Lady again, and tell her,that I will not deliver to thee the clothexcept fhe come herfelf; and do thoubut bring her to my Ihip, and if thewind be good and tit, then I purpofeto lead her away. Thy counfel isgood quoth the Lady’s fervant, there¬fore give me fome reward and I fhalifulfil thy deiire.Now when he had received his re- ,ward, he went again to the Lady andtold her, that by no means the mailerof the fhip would deliver him thecloth, except die came herfelf.The Lady believed her fervant, andwent to the fhip. Now when fhe waswithin the fhip-board, her fervant a-bode without.When the mailer law that die was ■within the fhip, and" that the windwas good, he drew up the fail andfailed foith.When the Lady perceived this, thusdie faid to the mdler, O mailer,cr, the Chaf,e Emprefs. 17(quoth {he) wKat treafon is this thou,hall done to 11',e ? The mailer anl’wer-ed and faid, Madam, certainly ic isfo, that I mull needs lie with thee,and afterwards efpoufe thee. O goodSir, quoth Ihe, 1 have made a vow,that L fhall never do fuch a thing butwith him unto whom l am bound byright and by the law. Soothly (quothhe) if yon will not grant ic me withyour good will, i will caft you outinto the midfl of the fea, and therefit all you die an evil death: If it belb (quoth fhe) that I mull needs con-fent, or elfe diej fit;!!:, I pray thee, toprepare a private place in the end ofthe Ihip, whereas, 1 may fulfil thineintent ere 1 die, and alfo, l pray thee,that I may fay my prayers unto theFather of Heaven, that he may havemercy on me.The mailer believed her, whereforehe did ordam her a cabbin in the endof the fhip, wherein die kneeled downon both her knees, and made herprayer, faying on this wife, 4 O thoumy Lord God, thou haft, kept me frommy youth in cleannefs, keep me nowthat I be not defloured, fo that 1 may18 Manalay and his cruel Brother,ever ferve thee with a clean heart andmind, and let not thi? wicked manprevail with me, nor any other likewickednefs come nigh me ’ Whendie had ended her prayers, ther e arofefuddeniy a great tempefl in the fea,_ fo that the fhip broke all in pieces andall that were therein pen died, favethe Lady, as they thought; and diecaught a cable and laved herfelf, andthe mailer caught a board of the fhipand fived himfe’i like wile ; Never the-lefs die knew not or him, nor he ofher, for they were driven to diverscoafls. The Lady landed in her ownempire, near to a rich city, whereinfhe was honourably received, and dielived lb hob’ .. life, that God gave hergrace and power to heal lick folk ofall manner of dtfeafee : Whereforeth£r.e c* me much people to her, both (crooked, blind, and lame, and everyman through the grace of God, and 'her good behaviour was healed, where¬fore, her name was known throughdivers regions. Nevertheleh Ihe wasnot known as he h nip refs. At thefame time the Lmpei'or’s brother thathad hanged her before by the Lair,cr, the Chafie Emprefs* ig Qj.wa?- fmitten with a foul leprolic. TheKnight thaf 'flew the Earl’s Daughter.land put the bloody knife in her hand,jilvyas blind, deaf, and had the palfle.The, thief that betrayed her to thematter of the ihip, was lame and fullof the cram p. And the mafler of thei hip deprived of his \vits.. When the Emperor heard that foioly a woman was in the city, heWiled his bro:her, and faid to hi in.i hus. Let irs go dear brother, untoi his holy woman that is dwelling in!" s city, that Ihe mav heal thee of^ leprofle. Would to God, O noblentier (quoth he) that 1 were healed*’on, the Emperor with his brothernt towards the city. Then when!: citizens heard of his coming, theyeived him honourably, with pro-flon and all provifion becoming his,ite. And tlxen the .Emperor enquir-c»f the citizens, if any inch holyman was among them, that couldd flck folk of their difeafes. The ci-zeus anfwered and faid, thatfuch anne there was. Now at the lame time,as come to the fame city, the Knightho flew the Earl’s daughter, and the '20 Manalay ant] Ills crnel Brother,thief which ihe ihvcd from the gal¬lows, and the matter of the thip whchad betrayed her, to be healed of theirdjt’eafes.Then was the Emprefs called fordbefore the Empeix>r, but die mufflecher face as well as Ihe could, that th<jEmperor, her hulband thuuld nolknow her, and when die had lb done!Ihe fainted him with great reverenceas appertained to his Hate: And againhe in bite manner, laying thus, Cgood Lady, if thou nieafe of thy kind!nefs to heal my brother, of his leproilie; alk of me what thou will, and .Jhall grant it thee for 1 hy- reward.When the Emprtls ueard this, fhlooked about her, and faw there titnEmperor’s brother a-foul Leper j lhi:faw there alfo the Ivnight that Her'the Earl’s Daughter, blind and deai ;The thief that die laved from the gallows, lame: And alfo, the mailer cthe ihip, deprived of his wits, atmail were come to her to be healed ctheir maladies, and knew her not: 13l •though they knew her nor, die kneT< them well. Then faid ihe unto d rEmperor thus, My reverend Lord, tinon would give me all your Empire, Iavmot heal vour brother, nor amr ofiele other, except they acknowledgeiipenly what great evil tney have done.' When the Emperor heard tins, hertirned him towards his brother andI lid unto him; brother, acknowledgeipenly thy fin., before all thefe men,: tat thou may eft be healed of thycknefs. Then anon he began to tell>w he had led his life ; but he told>t how he had hanged the Emprefsthe forefc by the hair of the headofl defpightfuliy.When he had acknowledged all hebought fit, the Emprefs, replied and'd, boot hi y my Lord, 1 would glaf-1-lay unto him my medicine, but Iow right well it is in vain, for he*kh not made a full confefHon.The Emperor hearing this, he turn-towards his brother, and laid inis wife, What evil furrow, or otherhappy wretchednefs is in thee ?ell thou not, how that thou art aul Leper? Therefore, acknowledgey fin truly, that thou mayefl beIt, or el'bavoid my company forer more.rlU'flTtl 111 J L.I U'Ll UlULH'l,Ah my Lord (quoth he) I dare nottel! my lifb openly, except I be litreof thy pardon. What had thou trefpalled againd me ? laid the EmperorThen anfwered his brother, and faidMine offence agamd thee is grierousand therefore, I afk. thee heartily for-givenefs. 7 he Emperor thought rioton the Emprefs, forasmuch as he fup-{•ofed, ffe had been dead many yearsbefore*, he commanded his brother tostell forth wherein lie had offended,him, and he fhould be forgiven.When the Emperor had thus for¬given his brother; he began to tell o-penly how he had delired the Emprefsto commit adultery with him, and be-caufe die denied, he had hanged herby the hair in the foreft on fuch a day.When the Emperor heard this, hewas almoft bedde himfelf, and in thisrage he faid thus : 0 thou wretched'creature, the Vengeance cf God is fal ¬len upon thee, and were it not that Ihave pardoned thee, thou fhould diethe mod diameful death that could bethought.Then faid the Knight that dew theEarl’s daughter, I wot not, quoth he,Kit Lady you arc, but ! wot that myLord found on a time fuch a Ladyranging in the foreft, and broughtnjer home to his cattle, and he tookIter and gave her his daughter to keep,Ipd I provoked her as much as I couldi {in with me; but fhe would in no| ife cop lent unto me, wherefore Ibw the Earl’s Daughter that lay with,11% and when 1 had fo done, J putte bloody knife in the Lady’s hand,at the Lari {hould think thatr (lieid {lain his daughter with her owni nd, and then fhe was exiled thence,t: where fhe went 1 wot not.Then faid the thief, I wot not ofjlhat Lady you fpeak ; but well 1 wotSljat feven officers were leading me to|e gallows,' and fuch a Lady cameLeg by, and bought me of them :d then went 1 with her and after-Sirds I betrayed her unto the matterthe fliip.iSuch a Lady quoth the matter of thep received l, and when we were in; raidft of the fea, I would have lainth her. but fhe kneeled down to.r prayer?, and anon there arofe fuchmpeft, that, the fhip broke all inpieces, and all therein were drownedlave fne and 1, hut afterwards whatbecame of her 1 know not.Then cried the Etnprefs with a loudvoice, and laid, Soothly, dear .friend?.Ye do now truly confefs and deciar|tlie truth, wherefore I will now app!my medicine, and anon they receivetheir healths.When the Lady the' Emprefs ha#thus done, ih- uncovered her face' llthe Emperor, and he forthwith knevher, and ran to her and embraced hJfin * his arms, and killed her ofuenitimes; and for joy lie wept bitterMSaving, Blefled be God, now I havjfound what i defired. And when J|3tad thus laid, he led her home to hjjpalace with, great joy; and after, whdit pleafed Almighty God, they endelbodi tdieir lives in peace and relt.F I N I S.G L A S G O W,PRINTED by J. & M. ROBERTS O:Saltmariset. i?o®.