"SOME|EjACULATIONS|| DYING'WORDS IM • Of the Reverend W« Mr. JOHN, WILLIS O N, ?|1 ^ La e ML'ilrte-r cf the Goftn l at Dundee. ^' OR, |llHislaftWordstobisWife&Chiklmi.fi-olUBtJRCH • Print d'aiul Ss.M in Niddj's Wynd^( * )Ejaculations & Dying Words, Sec.To hifWije.My Dear, . , ,MY diftrefs calls me to think of parting with you,the will of the Lord be done. I thank you for |vour tenddr care of me ; may ti e Lor$1 blefs and re-ward you for it, and fanftify your own tendernefs, andfupport you under it. As you have iludied to live alifVof faith and prayer all your days, fo 1 believe youwill contfnue to the end. la all your difficu ties andfears, encourage yourfelf in the Lord your God Com-,nit vour way to him ; truft m him that is faithful .andtrue? I refign you, my dear, to the Husband of Hul."bands, our dcareft Lord Jelus thrill.To my Children.T^vEAR Children, your earthly father mult leave yott,I J but your heavenly father is immortal. O . cleavehim. Triffie not about your fouls concern mtime of health ; mind thefe things is the one thingneedful; this you-will repent of when you come with-n a near view of eternity. O firs! prefs for clearv ew of your intereft in thrift, the only furety andSaviour of iinners. Among other evidences of n liveSi on him, and Andy holmefs in. heart and life,by faivh on , ■'m be abie t0 (land heford*** >'ou **" Hyuui j fa made new creatuws.‘“tSr^SeVu all fuch, andblefs you with his befLord mak > b UpfiI1.you all. What mean!M o! 7me I havIbeftoLddtem to you. Ee kin.and cSeful of your mother while you have-her; an,-no ca. et > tbat though I go befure you t( 71Jo vine father, who being dead, yet hereby fpeaketh toyou for vour eternal good and happinefs; may they liftinto your hearts : So pt.yoth ^ WILUSON.Seme cf h i Dying EJACULATIONS.OLet me ft eep in Jefus ! I would not live alwaysin this evil world that has little in it tempting,ami feems {till trrowing worfe, and where the torrentof fin anti backfliding feemsto grow ftronger. |I would defire to depart and to be-with Chrut, w'nclv .is fir better than to be here- I am willing rather to jbe abfent from the body •.id. prefent with the Loro; |Whom have I in heaven hut thee, ntd there is rone in ailthe e hh whom 1 Jijire hi [ides thee ; for though my heart,Jirength and fiejb fail, yet Cod is the jlrength oj my ho artand my portion jer ever.Now, Lord, what wait I for f rfiy hope is in thee*j! 1 have waited for thy falvation, O Lord.| O for Simeon’s frame, to be laying, Lord Jett ft thouthy fervant depart in peace; for mine eyes, k. ve fesn thy•fafaaUon,When Chrift fays,- Surely l eotne quicklyi may myfoul an Aver, Even Jo come, Lord Jefus.I an living on the righteoufneis of Chrift, yea, dy¬ing in the Lord. Even fo come, i am detained hereupon:the fliore, waring for a fair wind, to carry meover this Jordan. I have wal ed and will wait for thy jf.ilvation, O Lord. The Lord is a rock, and his work • jis perf ect: Lord perfect what coucernetli me.O that I could fay with Paul, The time cf my depar¬ture is at hand. I have kept the fa th ; I h.,ve run my race;I have fi. ijhed wy courfe ; henceforth there is laid up forme a crown of righteoufmfs^ which th: t igh'tcous Lord will !give me at ’his coming.I om vile and polluted, how (Hall I be clean fed ? Bucthat is a comfortable promife, The bltod of Jefus Chrijthis Son, clcanfeth from all fin. And fo is that, Thoughye have lien among the pots, ye full be as doves,* ( 4 )viliok win^s sre covered with fiiver, and their Tea*thery svith yellow gold.I refolve to obey; to fubmit to the Lord’s will; todie lilie Moles and Aaron, the one at Mount Hor, the•ther at Mount Abirim. Tlie} went up and died atthe commandment of the Lord.O that w en my fleih and {Length fail, G d may bethe ftrength of my heart, and my portion for ever.-—When now the keepers of the houfe do tremble, Othat God may be the- keeper; when the grinders ceafe,bec.aufe they are few, O that God wonld feed my foulwith manna that wall need none of thefe employments}v/hen the daughters of mufic are biought low, O t© befitted for that heavenly mufic ; when the lookers oatat the windows are darkted, O that my Ibul may beenltghtned to'lee Jsfns my Redeemer.Lord help the unbelief and infidelity of my heart,and’ help to more of faith of a fifen Jeliis, an afccmltdRedeemer. O let me believe , nd feel the fweemefs of |tint word of Chrilh, Ijfand to my Father andyour Fa- 'th:r, andt your Cod and v:y Cod.O how' fhail fuch an unholy creature as I prefumc.in- |to fuch a pure and holy place ? But the apoftle has taught <us, we may have bojdnefk to enter into tlte hoiiefl ofaif by the blood of jefus.O that when the time of my lad combat comes withmy laft enemy death, I may be helped above alt to takethe (hield af faith, whereivy I may be relieved from thejfling of death, and may quench the fury darts of thewicked one. JO that I may be helped to adore the fovereignty ofGod in bis rod, and humbly fubmit to it. Save uiejfrom both extremities; let me never defpife the chaf-jtening pf the Lord, nor faint when 1 am rebuked ofhim.Now the priiiCe of darknefs will ftudy to raife temp-efts of temptations to fhipwreck the poor weather bea.ten veflel of my foul, when it would enter into theharbour of reft above ; may Chrift come to pilot andfteer the helm, and it fiiall be fafe.ance, that I may go off the Ikge rejoicing anJ thatan abundant entrance may be miniftrei-**) nie into thekingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jefus Chrift.O for more faith, that I may die like Simeon, whenhe had Chrift in his arm*, faying. Now let thy ferv.intdepart in peace, for mine eyes have feen thyfalv .ikn.Lord, one fmile of thy countenance would baniih a-w<!y all my doubts ; nd fears, and make me (ing in pain.Is my Redeemer gone to prepare a place for us, whyfhonld I be fjothful to follow his foot fteps J^vvhen he isfaying, come up hither ; come up dwell here; come upreign here ; come t.p fing here.6 Lord, deliver my ibul from death, mine eyes fromtears, and my feet from falling. O fave me from thehorrible pit, draw me Out of the miry clay, fei my feetupon.a rock, and eftablillt my goings, and put a newTong in my mouth.j O give grace to ftrive by faith, and pray?r to entert in at the ftrait gate. Lord, thou haft hid me knock andJ it fhall be open: d, afk and 1 fhall receive; Lord, I knockl opcn unto me ; 1 would be in, 1 muft be in ; kt me inIbut.over the threfliold ; let me in'within fight of myIjRcdeenicrs face, within fight, of the ftniles of his coun-Itenancc; "let me v/ithin hearing of the fongsof theredeemed, let me g^t to the outfide of that praifingcompany, I’ll be well enough if I get in.Lord, in I mnft be, out l cannot fray. O fliuj; metot out with fwearers, tabbarh breakers and profane>erfons; Lord, I never chus’d their company while ia-his world; Lord, db not gather my foul with finnerihereafter.The redlemed are gathering, and the wicked are ga.hering. Lord gather me with thy flock ; they are faft; » gatliering ; the church’s head is gone; he has lefthe earth and entered into bis gior-y. My brethren and| riends, many of them have arrived where he is, I am; ret behind. O how great is the difference betw'een■ ny frate and theirs; I am groaning out my complaint,t hey are Tinging God’s praife; I am in darknefs, andannot fee thy face, but they behold thee face to face.t/hould I be faiisfaed to frav behiud when iny friendsare gone! Shall I wander here in a btmgrv delart, whenthey are triumphing above, and dividing the fpoil!— 'O help me to^look after them with a ftedfaft eye, and fcry, O Lord, how long! O heavenly Father, draw I,me after Jefus, for none came to him without thy aid. jO Father draw me up there where he is, and I'll mount | 4up as on eagle’s wings. O draw me, and when thou ) ®feemeft to fly from me, Lord enable me to follow h: 'd•after ].•<*.Lord give me the ftafF of promife-in my hand that I "may go over Jordan with it, O give me fuch a promife fas that, ‘ When thou paffeft through the waters I will ®ba with thee, and through the rivers they (hall not o-verflpw thee : When tiioa walked through the fire thou ffit alt not be bnrnt, neither lhall the flams kindle upon'■thee.’Lord, my experieftces are finall, my manifeftations ;are few ; thefe I wil not’lean to, Tc-t F will remember, :thee from the land of Jordan, from the Hermonitcs, anifrom the hill IMizar. Why art tliou caft down, O my:foul, and why di(quieted within me ? hope thou in God,’ vfor i fliai! yet praile him who is the health of my coun- :tehaiice, and my God.O thou who remembreft the dyin^ thief when on the !Jway to thy kingdom, and O remember me when now Lfeated in thy kingdom, and (ay unto my foul when 1 'am dj lag, » This day (halt thou be with me in para-dife.’Lord, I am called to the work, O give me the. ftreiigth , I never had. O fl-rengthen mu like Sampfo< ,for once, when at death, to pull down the ftrong hold; 1•of fin in me. Lord, wafin away my fins in the blood oC hnlt and then my foul lhall not link in the ocean o<;thy wrath. |rO what’s my life but a vapour ! a fand gkifs of 6o orf70 years ! O l;ow faft does it run down ! how Toon runit out ! Vain, vain, is the love of life, and the fear c.death. O for more patience and lefs fretting. If t|idamned had hope of b£ifig faved from hell after a ice Lyears pain, how willingly would they endure it? Ble! :fed be God, my pains^is not in hell, their ftate is notLord, draw near to me, and fave me. My body is! full of trouble, and my life draws near to the grave .*ujBnt, Lord, thy loving kindncfs is better than life, Osjmake thy loving kindnefs fure to me, and I will wil-flingly part with this dying life. Oh, that I could make!pJl the world fee the beauty of my precious and adora-We Saviour. Nothing but an intereft in Cbrift can giveijgeace in life, or comfort in death. He is the chief a-ijmong ten tboulaud, and all together lovely. My bodyits in part dead, but I know 1 cannot die eternally whileJefus lives. I mull: go down to the grave ; but whatis the grave? it is but a refining pot fince my Saviourday in it; it is but a bed of rofes. He is the Refe of[iC/urron, and the Lilly of the valley.i| It was his grace that drew me, and made me willingjin a day of his power; no defire nor merit in me, itWas all free and undeferved. O let the chaftifeincnt oflimy body be the medicine of my foul, to cure me of fin,jjtand bring me to fincere repentance for it; for ChriflWw s wounded for our tranfgr efforts, he was hut Jed for our\eniq*Aties; the chaflifen.ent f cur peact'Was laid upon him.jj’Lord, remember the chaftil'ement of Chrilt for fin, andfilet my pains be the challilement of a father, and not’Ihe wcunds of an enemy. Let Chrift’s fufferings mitt-Igate mine. I rejoice in the profpeft of that gloriousinheritance referved fafe 1 could not comfortablyenter eternity any other way but in and through this! Uod-nian mediator : if he was not God as well as man1 f could not be fupported, but he is God. Oh, thisnecious Saviour,, he is my ail in all, he is my fufficient> jood, my portion and my choice; in him my vaft de-ires are fulfilled, and all my powers rejoice. J amravelling the wildernefs to a city of habifation, whofemilder and maker is God. Oh! delightful thought!■ that I who was going on in fin, (honld be plucked as ar>rand qrt of the burning. Oh ! how will they ly on aIcath bed that have nothing but their own works to flyo ? with only this to depend on, J. fliould be the n;oitnTerable of all creatures; but the long white robe P£nay Redeemer’s righteonfhels is all, my defire. Theyare truly blefied. they alone are happy, who are ena-’bled to exalt in that garment of cchftial glory which*never waxeth old, in the illuffwous robes oi a Saviour’sconfummate righteoufnefs, which are incorruptible andimmortal. This is a robe which hides every fin, ofthought, word or .:,ed, that 1 have committed.——Ohow unfptakably happy are they whb are juflified bythis all perfect righttoufnefs of all they in the LordJefus Chrill, and vviio therein can conftantly triumphand glory.'. Lord, I live upon Chtift, I liv^ upon his righteouf*nefs, 1 live upon his blood and merits; yea, I die alfoleaning wholly upon this .bottom. It is not-pad expe¬rience or maniFdVatlons .1 depend upon; it is Chrifl, apt'efeht aH infilcfcnt Saviour, 'and pcrLct righteoufiiefsi« him I look to. AI«my attalnnlchts are but-lofs anddn-'g bcfi<i( s.When I find myfelf polluted I go to this fountain tor.deanfipg. Lord give me delight in approaching totliee; defigHt. to be at a throne of grace—O that Ienujd m;>ke my bed there, ly and die there..T he kingdom .bf heaven fnfFers violence, and ^he.violent take it by force.- O Tor ftrength to offer a holyviolence by faiih and prayer.■ Thus ths Author ded as he lived, tcjlifying tht /> *”■re/'g OK upon h:ntftlf\ and that at a t »:e lift-n me/, have• mrd! uted of ds cinfat t. iThe foregoing ’words a: e 4:erdoid for-i hd own mmuferipi} turn in the ha ds cf Mr,Bell, Mi’&fteF at Aberbrorhick.\\Tt.li \m Bki.;! t’’ INIS.HhHL