NARRATIVEOF THE BATTLESDRUMCLOGGLASGOWPRINTED FOR THE DOOKSELLERS.uraCTTIMD rVrrx/..^;!"i.'. • «n.t s:" ?fi - -■THEBATTLE OF DRUMCLOG.he following Account of the Battles of Drnmclog and Both-(wel! Bridge, is taken from an American Newspaper, entitledthe ‘National Gazette.’ It is written by the Laird of Tor-foot, an officer in the Presbyterian army, whose estate is atthis day in the possession of his lineal descendants of the fifthgeneration.“It was a fair Sabbath morning, 1st June 167.),tat an assembly of the Covenanters sat down on the;athy mountains of Drumclog. We had assembled>t to fight, but to worship the God of our fathers.7e were far from the tumult of cities.—The long darkiath waved around us; and we disturbed no livingeatures, saving the pees-weep and the heather-cork,s usual, we had come armed. It was for self-defence,or desperate and ferocious bands made bloody raid-rough the country, and, pretending to put downeason, they waged war against religion and morn ..hey spread ruin and havoc over the face of blued in.•mtlaud.The venerable Douglas had commenced the solomuitl sthe day. He was expatiating on the execrable ev . ;tyranny. Our souls were on lire at the remembei-ice of our country's sufferings and the wrongs of thepirch. In tins moment of intense feeling, ourwatch-an posted on the neighbouring heights tired bis caia-ic and r an towards the congregation. He announcedc approach of the enemy. \Ve raised our eyes to theinistcr. “ I have done,” said Douglas with his usualmness—“ You have got the theory,—now for the4practice; you know your duty; self-defence is alwalawful. But the enemy approaches,” He raised his ejto heaven and uttered a prayer—brief and emphaticlike the prayer of Richard Cameron, “ Lord, spare tgreen, and take the ripe.”The officers collected their men, and placed theiselves each at the head of those of iiis own district. SRobert Hamilton placed the foot in the centre, in (hr1 ranks. A company of horse, well armed and mountewas placed on the left; and a small squadron also on tileft. These were drawn back, and they occupied t;more solid ground ; as well with a view to have a mosolid footing, as to arrest any flanking party that midtake them on the wings. A deep morass lay betwe'ins and the ground of the enemy. Our aged men, o:females and children retired; but they retired slow!”They had the hearts and the courage of the female aichildren in those days of intense religious feeling andsuffering. They manefested more concern for the fa'of relatives, for the fate of the church than for their owpersonal safety. As Claverhouse descended the oppositmountain, they retired to the rising ground in the re!of our host. The aged men walked with their bonnetin hand. Their long grey hairs waving to the breezeThey sang a cheering psalm. The music was that 'the well-known tune of “ The Martyrs and the serftiment breathed defiance.—The music floated down othe wind,—our men gave them three cheers as thejfell into their ranks. Never did I witness such animSlion in the looks of men. For me, my spouse and mlittle children were in the rear. My native plains, amthe halls of my father, far below, in the deal of Avonwere in full view from the heights which we occupiedMy country seemed to raise her voice—the bleedinjchurch seemed to wail aloud. ‘ And these,’ I said, ajClavers and his troops winded slowly down the darlmountain’s side, £ these are the unworthy slaves, an<]bloody executioners, by which the tyrant completes outmiseries.’5Hamilton here displayed the hero. His portly figurewas seen hastening from rank to rank. He inspiredcourage into our raw and undisciplined troops. Thebrave Hackstone, and Hall of Haughhead, stood at thehead of the foot, and re-echoed the sentiments of theirChief. Burley and Cleland had inflamed the minds ofthe horsemen on the left to a noble enthusiasm. Mysmall troop on the right needed no exhortation; wewere a band of brothers, resolved to conquer or fall.The trumpet of Clavers sounded a loud note of defiance—thekettle drum mixed its tumultuous roll—they halted—they made a long pause. We could see an officerwith four file, conducting 15 persons from the ranks, toa knoll on their left. I could perceive one in black; itwas my friend King, the Chaplain at Lord Cardross,who had been taken by Clavers at Hamilton. ‘ Letthem be shot through the head,’ said Clavers, in hisusual dry way, ‘ if they should offer to run away.’ Wecould see him view our position with great care. Kisofficers came around him. We soon learned that hewished to treat with us. He never betrayed symptomsof mercy or of justice, nor offered terms of reconciliation,unless when he dreaded that he had met his match;and, even then, it was only a manoeuvre to gain time orto deceive. His flag approached the edge of the bog.Sir Robert held a flag sacred; had it been borne by- Clavers himself he had honoured it. He demanded thepurpose for which he came. ‘ I come,’ said he, ‘ inthe name of his sacred Majesty, and of Colonel Graham,to offer you a pardon, on condition that you kiy downyour arms, and deliver up your ringleaders.’—* Tellyour officer,’ said Sir Robert, ‘ that we are fully awareof the deception he practices. He is not clothed withany powers to treat, nor was he sent out to treat withus, and attempt reconciliation. The Government agains1,whom we have risen, refuses to redress our grievances,or to restore to us our liberties. Had the tyrant wishedto render us justice, he had not sent by the hand of sucha ferocious assassin as Claverhouse. Let him, however.shew his powers, and we refuse not to treat; and we Ishall lay down our arms to treat, provided that he also Ilay down his. Thou hast my answer.’—‘ It is a per- •feetly hopeless case,’ said Burley, while he called afterthe Hag-bearer.—* Let me add one word by your leave,General. Get thee up to that bloody dragoon, Clavers,and tell him, that we will spare his life, and the lives ofhis troops, on condition that he, your Clavers, lay downhis arms, and the arms of these troops. We will domore, as we have no prisoners on these wild mountains, 'we will even let him go on his parole, on condition thathe swear never to lift arms against the religion and theliberties of his country. A loud burst of applause reechoed from the ranks; and after a long pause in deepsilence, the army sung the following verses of a psalm:—‘ The arrows of the bow he brake :The shield, the sword, the war.More glorious thou than hills of prey,More excellent art far.Those that were stout of heart are spoil'd,They sleep their sleep outright;And none of these their hands did find.That were the men of might.When the report was made to Claverhouse, he gaveword with a savage ferocity, ‘ Their blood be on their•own heads. Be—-no quarter—the word this day.’ Hisfierce dragoons raised a yell, and ‘ No quarter,’ re-echoedfrom rank to rank, while they galloped down the moun¬tain side. It is stated, that Burleigh was heard to say,‘ Then be it so, even let there be ‘ no quarter’—at leastin my wing of the host. So God send me a meeting,’cried he aloud, * with that chief under the white plume.—My country would bless my memory, could my swordgive his villainous carcase to the crows.Our raw troops beheld with firmness the approach ofthe foemen; and at the moment when the enemy haltedto fire, the whole of our foot dropped on the heath.nNot a man was seen down when the order was given turise, and return the fire. The first flank fired, thenkneeling down while the second fired. They made eachballet tell. As often as the lazy rolling smoke wascarried over the enemy’s head, a shower of bullets fellcm his ranks. Many a gallant man tumbled on theheath. The fire was incessant. It resembled one blaz¬ing sheet of flame, for several minutes, along the line oft he Covenanters. Clavers attempted to cross the morass,and break our centre. ‘ Spearmen ! to the front,’—Icould hear the deep-toned voice of Hamilton say, ‘ Kneel,and place your spears to receive the enemy's cavalry;and you, my gallant fellows fire—God end our counlniis our word.’—Our officers flew from rank to rank. Nota peasant gave way that day. As the smoke rolled off,we could see Clavers urging on his men with the violenceof despair. His troops fell in heaps around him, andstill the gaps were filled up. A galled trooper wouldoccasionally flinch; but ere he could turn or flee, thesword of Clavers was waving over his head. I couldsee him in his fury, strike both man and horse. In thefearful carnage he himself sometimes reeled. He wouldstop short in the midst of a movement, then contradictIds own orders, and strike the man, because lie couldnot comprehend his meaning.He ordeied the flanking parties to take us on ourright and left. “ In the name of God,” cried he,•” cross the bog, and charge them on the flanks till weget over the morass. If this fail we are lost.”It now fell to my lot to come into action.—Hithertovve had fired only some distant shot. A gallant officer ledhis band down to the borders of the swamp, in searchof a proper place to cross. We threw ourselves beforehim, a severe firing commenced. My gallant men firedwith gieat steadiness. We coul.l see many tumblingfrom their saddles. Not content with repelling the foe-; men, we found an opportunity to cross, and attack themsword in hand. The Captain, whose name I afterwardsi ascertained to be Arrol, threw himself into my path. Inthe first shook, I discharged my pistols. His suddenstart in the saddle, told me that one of them had lakoleffect. With one of the tremendous oaths of Chari*II. he closed with me. He fired his steel pistol. I walin front of him ;—my sword glanced on the’ weapon, aimgave a direction to the bullet, which saved my life. ]j:||this time mv men had driven the enemy before tlienfland had left the ground clear for the. single combat. Ahe made a lounge at my breast, I turned his swenaside, by one of those sweeping blows, which are rathethe dictate of a kind of instmet of self-defence, than 1movement of art.—As our strokes redoubled, my antedgonist’s dark features put on a look of deep and settlerferocity. No man who has not encountered the stec;of his enemy, in the field of battle, can conceive thelooks and the manner of the warrior, in the moments ohis intense feelings. May I never witness them againWe fought in silence. My stroke fell on his left shoulder ;■t cut the belt of his carabine, which fell to the ground.His blow cut me to the rib, glanced along the bone, and;rid me also of the weight of my carabine. He had now;advanced too near me to be struck with the sword, igrasped him by the collar. I pushed him backwards ;and, with an entangled blow of my Ferrara, I struck him.across his throat. It cut only the strap of his head-;piece, and it fell off. With a sudden spring, he seizedjme by the sword belt. Our horses reared, and we both:came to the ground. We rolled on the heath in deadlyconflict. It was in this situation of matters, that mybrave fellows had returned from the rout of the flanking :party, to look after their commander. One of them wasactually rushing on my antagonist, when I called on himto retire. We started to our feet. Each grasped hissword. We closed in conflict again. After parryingstrokes of mine enemy, which indicated a hellish ferocity,I told him, my object was to take him prisoner ; thatsooner than kill him, I should order my men to seize him.“ Sooner let my soul be brandered on my ribs in hell,”; dd he, “ than be captured by a Whigmore. ‘ Aoda-G;9quarter’ is the word of my Colonel, and my word.Have at the V hig—I dare the whole of you to tirecombat.”-—“ Leave the mad man to me—leave thefield instantly,” said I to my party, whom I couldhardly restrain. My sword fell on his left shoulder.—His sword dropped from his hand.—I lowered my sword,and offered him his life. ‘ iVb quarter,’ said he, witha shriek of despair. He snatched his sword, which Iheld in my hand, and made a lounge at my breast. 1teamed his blows till he was nearly exhausted ; but,feathering up his huge limbs, he put forth all his energy5n a thrust at my heart.—My Andro Ferrara receivedit, so as to weaken its deadly force ; but it made a deepcut. Though I was faint with loss of blood, I left himno time for another blow. .My sword glanced on Idsshoulder, cut through his buff'coat, and skin, and flesh ;Swept through his jaw, and laid open his throat fromear to ear. The fire of his ferocious eye was quenchedin a moment. He reeled, and falling with a terribleclash, he poured out his soul with a torrent of blood onthe heath. 1 sunk down, insensible for a moment.My faithful men, who never lost sight of me, raised meup. In the fierce combat, the soldier suffers most fromthirst. I stooped down to fill my helmet with theSvater which oozed through the morass. It was deeplytinged with human blood, which flowed in the conflictabove me. I started back with horror ; and GawnWitherspoon bringing up my steed, we set forward inthe tumult of the battle.All this while, the storm of war had raged on ourleft. Cleland and the fierce Burley had charged thestrong company sent to flank them. These officers per¬mitted me to cross the swamp, then, charged themwith a terrible shout. ‘ IVo quarter,' cried the dragoons.Be no quarter to you, then, ye murderous loons,’ criedBurley ; and at one blow he cut their leader throughtlie steel cap, and scattered his brains on his followers.His every blow overthrew a foeman. Their whole forceswere now hrought*iip, and they drove the dragoons of10Clavers into the swamp. They rolled over each otlnAll stuck fast. The Covenanters dismounted, and fougon foot. They left not one man to bear the tidings’their Colonel.The firing of the platoons had long ago ceased, athe dreadful work of death was carried on by the swoisAt this moment, a trumpet was heard in the rear of uarmy. There was an awful pause, all looked up.was only the gallant Captain Nesbit, and his guidWoodburn of Mains ; he had no reinforcements for 11but himself was a host. With a loud huzza, and fiouriof his sword, he placed himself by the side of ljurle;and cried, ‘jump the ditch, and charge the enemyHe and Burley struggled through the marsh. The mifollowed as they could. They formed and marched (the enemy’s right flank.At this instant, Hamilton and Hackstone. broug]forward the whole line of infantry in front. ‘ God o/iour Country'’ re-echoed from all the ranks—4 No quuiten' said the fierce squadrons of Clavers—Here commenced a bloody scene.I seized the opportunity this moment offered to me «making a movement to the left of the enemy to save in,friend King and the other prisoners.—We came in tintto save them. Our sword speedily severed the ropewhich tyranny had bound on the arms of the men. Titweapons of the fallen foe supplied what was lacking earms ; and with great vigour we moved forward tcharge the enemy on the left flank. Claverhouse formea hollow square—himself in the centre ; his men fougl]gallantly ; they did all that soldiers could do in theisituation. Wherever a gap was made, Clavers thrusthe men forward, and speedily filled it up. Three timehe rolled headlong on the heath as he hastened fioitrank to rank, and as often he remounted. My littljband thinned his ranks. He paid us a \isit. Hue .distinctly saw the features and shape of this far-famwman. He was small of stature, and not well formed.His arms were long in proportion to his legs ; he had in ^complexion unusually dark ; his features were not lightedup with sprightliness, as some fabulously leported ; theyseemed gloomy as hell: his cheeks were lank and deeplyfurrowed ; his eye-brows were drawn down and gatheredinto a kind of knot at their junctions, and thrown up attheir extremeties ; they had, in short, the strong ex¬pression given by our painters to those on the face ofJudas Iscariot, his eyes were hollow, they had not theInstie of genius nor the fire of vivacity; they werelighted up by that daik lire of wrath which is kindledand fanned by an internal anxiety, and conciousness ofciiminal deeds ; his irregular and large teeth were prestilted through a smile, which was very unnatural onhis set of features ; his mouth seemed to be unusuallylarge from the extremeties being drawn backward and| downward—as if in the intense application to somethingi cruel and disgusting ; in short, his upper teeth projectedover his under lip, and on the whole, presented to myview the mouth on the image of the Emperor Julian theApostate.—In one of his rapid courses past us, mysword could only shear off his white plumb and a frag-| ment of his buff coat. In a moment he was at the otherside of the square. Our officers eagerly sought a meet¬ing with him. ‘ He has the proof of lead,’ cried someof our men.-*—* Take the cold steel or a piece of silver.’‘ No,’ cried Burley, ‘ It is his rapid movement on thatfine charger that bids defiance to any thing like an aimin the tumult of the bloody fray. I could sooner shootten heather cocks on the wing, than one Hying Oarers.’At that moment Burley, whose eye watched his anta¬gonist, pushed into the hollow square. But Burley wafttoo impatient. His blow was levelled at him before hecame within its reach. His heavy sword descended onthe head of Olivers’ horse and lolled him to the ground.—Burley’s men rushed pell-mell on the fallen Olivers,but bis faithful dragoons threw themselves upon them,and by their overpowering force drove Burley back.(Havers was in an instant on a fresh steed. His bugle-mau recalled the party who were driving back the flauk-t12ing party of Burley. He collected Jus vvliole troops tomake liis last and desperate attack—He charged ourinfantry with such force, that they began to reel. Itwas only for a moment. The gallant Hamilton snatchedthe white flag of the Covenant, and placed himself inthe fore front of the battle. Our men shouted ‘ Godand our country,'1 and rallied under the flag. Theyought like heroes. Clavers fought no less bravely.His blows were aimed at our officers. His steel fell onthe helmet of Hackstone, whose sword was entangledm the body of a fierce dragoon, who had just woundedhim. He was born by his men into the rear. Idirected my men on Clavers. ‘ Victory or death,'was their reply to me. Clavers received us. Hestiuck a desperate blow at me as he raised himself,with all his force, in the saddle. My steel cap resistedit. 'The second stroke I received on my Ferrara an 1his steel was shivered to pieces. We rushed headlongon each other. His pistol missed fire—it had beensoaked in blood. Mine took effect. But the woundwas not deadly. Our horses reared. We rolled on theground. In vain we sought to grasp each oilier. Inthe mdc, men and horse tumbled on us. We were fora few moments buried under our men, whose eagernessto save the respective officers brought them in multitudesdown upon us. By the aid of my faithful man Gawn,1 had extricated myself from my fallen horse ; and wewere rushing on the bloody Clavers, when we wereagain literally buried under a mass of men ; for Hamil¬ton had by this time brought up his whole line, and hehad planted his standard where we and Claveis wererolling on the heath. Our men gave three clieeis anddrove in the troops of Clavers. Here I was born alongwith the moving mass of men ; and, almost sufibcatedand faint with the loss of blood, 1 knew nothing moretill I opened my eye on my faithful attendant. He haddragged me from the very grasp of the enemy, and hadborne me into the rear, and was bathing my templeswith water. We speedily regained our ' .ends ; and13 ?what a spectacle presented itself!—It seemed that Ibeheld an immense moving mass heaped up together inthe greatest confusion.—Some shrieking, some groaning,some shouted, horses neighed and pranced, swords rungon the steel helmets. I placed around me a few oi myhardy men, and we rushed into the thickest of the ene¬my in search of Clavers, hut it was in vain. At thatinstant, his trumpet sounded the loud notes of retreat;and we saw on a knoll Clavers borne away by his men.He threw himself on a horse, and without sword, with¬out helmet, he fled in the first ranks of their retreatinghost. His troops galloped up the hill in the utmostconfusion. My little line closed with that of Burleys,and took a number of prisoners. Our main body pur¬sued the enemy two miles, and strewed the ground withmen and horses. I could see the bare-headed Clayersin front of his men, kicking and struggling up the steepsides of Calder hill. He halted only a moment on thetop to look behind him, then plunged his rowels into hishorse, and darted forward ; nor .did he recover from hispanic till he found himself in the city of Glasgow.‘ And, my children,’ the Laird would say, after hehad told the adventures of this bloody day, ‘ I visitedthe field of battle next day ; I shall never forget thesight. Men and horses lay in their gory beds. 1 turnedaway from the horrible spectacle. 1 passed by the spotwhere God saved my life in the single combat, andwhere the unhappy Captain Arrol fell, I observed that,in the subsequent fray, the body had been trampled onby a horse, and his bowels were poured out. Thus, mychildren, the defence of our lives, and the regaining olour liber ty and religion, has subjected us to severe trials.And how great must be the love of liberty, when itcarries men forward, under the impulse of self-defence,to witness the most disgusting spectacles, and to en¬counter the most cruel hardships of war !’14BATTLE OP BOTHWELL BRIDGE.“ lieu! yictajacet pietas.”* * * After tiie ranks of the patriotic Whigs werebroken by overwhelming forces, and while Dalzell andClavers swept the south and west of Scotland like theblast of the desert, breathing pestilence and death—theindividual wanderers betook themselves to tiie caves andfastnesses of their rugged country. This was their ,situation chiefly from A. D. HiSO, to the Revolution.The Laird spent his days in seclusion ; but still he fear- ;lessly attended the weekly assemblies in the fields, forthe worship of Almighty God. What had he to fear? •—Kis estate had been confiscated. His wife and babesstript by the life guards of the last remnant of earthly :comfort which they could take away; and himself .doomed as an outlaw, to be executed by the militaryassassins when taken. He became reckless of the ,world.‘ I have lived,’ said he in anguish, ‘ to see a Prince,twice of his own choice, take the oath of the covenantsto support religion, and the fundamental laws of theland. 1 have lived to see that Prince turn traitor toIds country, and, with unblushing impiety order these .covenants to he burned by the hands of the executioner.1 have seen him subvert the liberty of my country, bothcivil and religions.-—I have seen him erect a bloody in-(juisition. The priest imposed on us by tyranny, insteadof wooing us over by the loveliness of religion, havethrown off the bowels of mercy. They occupy seats inthe bloody Council. They stimulate the cruelties ofLauderdale, MfKeuzie and York. Their hands aredipt in blood to the wrests. This Council will not per¬mit us to live in peace. Our property they confiscate.Our houses they convert into barracks. They (hag"free men into chains. They bring no witnesses of ourguilt,—They invent new tortures to convert us. Theyemploy the thumb-screws and hoojtliins. If we are si¬lent they condemn us. If we cou'css our Christianere d, they doom us to the gibbet. Ivot only our sen¬tence, hut tire manner of our execution is fixed beforeour trial. Clavers is our judge ; his dragoons are ourexecutioners ; and these savages do still continue toemploy even the sagacity of blood hounds to hunt usdown.—My soul turns away from these loathsomespectacles.At this moment his brother John entered, with lookswhich betrayed unusual anxiety. ‘ My brother,’ saidhe, ‘ a trooper advances at full speed, and he is followedby a dark column. We have not even time to fly.—The mind of the laird like those of the rest of the wan¬derers, always brightened up at the approach of danger.‘ Let us reconnoiter,’ said he, ‘ what do I se,, but onetrooper. And that motely crowd is hut a rabble—nota troop. That trooper is not of Clavers’ band ; nordoes he belong to Douglas—nor to Ingles—nor toStraehan’s dragoons. He waves a small flag. I candiscover the scarlet and blue colour of the Covenantersflag Ha ! welcome you, John Howie of Lpchgoin—But what news ?—Lives our country ? Lives the goodold cause P—‘ Glorious news,’ exclaimed Howie,‘ Scotland for ever ! She is free. The tyrant Jameshas abdicated. The Stuarts are banished by an indig¬nant nation, Orange triumphs, our wounds are bindingup.—Huzza! Scotland, and King William and theCovenant for ever !The Laird made no .reply. He laid Jus steel cap onthe ground, and threw himself on his knees; he uttereda brief prayer, in which this was the close : * My bleed¬ing country, and thy wailing kirk, and isy brethren inthe furnace, have , come in remembrance before thee.I or ever lauded be thy name.’-■'-Hasten to the meetingat Lesutahagow, Our friends behind me, yon see, have16already set out,’ said Howie. And he set out with enrthusiastic ardour to spread the news.e These news,’ said the Laird, after along pause whilehis eyes followed the courser over the plains of Aven—‘ these news are to me as life from the dead. I havea mind to meet my old friends at Lesmahagow. Andthen, when serious business is despatched, we can takeBothwell field in our return. It will yield me at leasta melancholy pleasure to visit the spot where wefought, I trust, our last battle against the enemies ofour country, and of the good old cause.Serious matters of church and state having been dis¬cussed at the public meeting, the brothers found them¬selves, on the fourth day, on the battleground of Both¬well.£ On that moor,’ said the Laird, after a long silence•—and without being conscious of it, he had, by a kindof instinct, natural enough to a soldier, drawn hissword, and was pointing with it—‘ On that moor theenemy first formed under Monmouth. There, on theright, Clayers led on the life-guards, breathing fury,and resolute to wipe oft' the disgrace of the affair ofLhumclog. Dalzell formed his men on that knoll. LordLivingstone led the van of the foemen. We had takencare to have Bothwell Bridge strongly secured by abarricade, and our little battery of cannon was plantedon the spot below us, in order to sweep the bridge. Andwe did rake it. The foemen’s blood streamed there.Again and again the troops of the tyrant marched on,and our cannon annihilated their columns. Sir RobertHamilton was our Commander-in-Chief.—The gallantgeneral Hackston stood on that spot 'with his bravemen. Along the river, and above the bridge, Burley’sfoot and captain Nisbet’s dragoons were stationed, l orone hour we kept the enemy in check ; they were de¬feated in every attempt to cross the Clyde. Livingstonesent another strong column to storm the bridge. I shallnever forget the effect of one fire from our battery, wheremy wen stood. We saw the line of the foe advance inall the military glory of brave and beautiful men, thehorses pranced—the armour gleamed. In one momentnothing was seen but a shocking mass of mortality.Human limbs, and the bodies and limbs of horses weremingled in one huge heap, or blown to a great distance.Another column attempted to cross above the bridge.Some threw themselves into the current. One well-directed fire from Hurley’s troops threw them into dis¬order, and drove them back. Meantime, while wewere thus warmly engaged, Hamilton was labouring tobring down the different divisions of our main body intoaction ; but in vain he called on Colonel Cleland’s troop—in vain he ordered Henderson’s to fall in—in vain hecalled on Colonel Fleming’s. Hackstone flew from troopto troop—all was confusion ; in vain he besought, heintreated, he threatened. Our disputes and fiery mis¬guided zeal, my brother, contracted a deep and deadlyguilt that d: •••. The Whig turned his arm in fiercebeat that day against h's own vitals. Our Chaplains,Cargil and King, and Kid, and Douglas, interposedagain and again, Cargil mounted the pulpit; he preachedconcord ; he called aloud for mutual forbearance. ‘ Be¬hold the banners of the enemy,’ cried he, ‘ hear ye notthe fire of the foe, and of our brethren ? Our brothersand fathers are fallen beneath their sword. Hasten totheir aid. See the flag of the Covenant. See themotto in letters of gold—* Ciirist’s Crown and the Co¬venant.’ Hear the wailings of the bleeding Kirk.Banish discord. And let us, as a band of hioth rs pre¬sent a bold front to the foeman—Follow me all y wholove your country and the Covenant. I go to die inthe fore-front of the battle. All the ministers andofficers followed him, amidst a flourish of trumpets ; butthe great body remained to listen to the harangues ofthe factious.—We sent again and again for ammunition.My men were at the last round. Treachery, or afatal error, had sent a barrel of raisins instead of pow¬der. My heart sunk within me while I beheld thedespair on the faces of my brave fellows, as I struck18out the head of the vessel. Hackstone called his offi¬cers to him. We threw ourselves around him.—‘ Whatmust be done ?’ said he in an agony of despair. ‘ Con¬quer or die,’ we said, as if with one voice. ‘ We haveour swords yet. Lead back the men to their placesand let the ensign bear down the blue and scarlet col¬ours. Our God and our country be the word.’ Hack-stone rushed forward. We ran to our respective corps-—we cheered our men but they were languid and dis-spirited. Their ammunition was nearly expended, andthey seemed anxious to husband what remained. Theyfought only with their carabines. The cannons couldno more be loaded. The enemy soon perceived this.We saw a troop of horse approach the bridge. It wasthat of the life-guards. I recognised the plumb ofCiavers. They approached in rapid march. A solidcolumn of infantry followed. 1 sent a request to Cap¬tain Nesbit to join his troop to mine. He was inan instant with me,—We charged the life-guards.Our swords rung on their steel caps.— Many of ourbrave lads fell on all sides of me. But we hewed downthe foe. They began to reel.---The whole column waskept stationary on the bridge. Clavtrs’ dreadful voicewas heard—more like the yell of a savage, than thecommanding voice of a soldier. He pushed forward hismen, and again we hewed them down. A third masswas pushed up. Our exhausted dragoon lied.—Un¬supported, I found myself by the brave Nesbit, andPaton, and Hackstone. We looked for a moment’sspace in silence on each other. We galloped in frontof our retreating men. We rallied them. We pointedto the General almost alone. We pointed to the whileand to the scarlet colours lloatiug near him. We e rr d,‘ God and our Country. They faced about. We chargedCiavers once mere.—‘ Tor foot, ’ cried Nesbit, ‘ I dareyou to tbe fore-front of the bat tie. ’ We rushed up at fullgallop. Our men seeing this followed also at f ull speed.- -We bloke down the enemy’s line, he aring down thosefiles which we cuconnteml. We cut our way through19their ranks. Rut they had now lengthened their front.Super or numbers drove us in. They had gained entirepossession of the bridge. Livingstone and Dalzell wereactually taking ns on the flank.—A hand had got be¬tween us and Hurley’s infantry. ‘ My friends,’ said| Haekstone to his officers, we are last on the field. Wel can do no more.—We must retreat.—Let ns attempt,at least, to bring aid to the deluded men behind us.They have brought ruin on themselves and on us. NotMonmouth, but our own divisions have scattered us.At this moment one of the life-guards aimed a blowI at Hackstone—My sword received it—-and a strokei from Nesbit laid the foeman’s hand and sword in thedust. He fainted and tumbled from the saddle. WeI reined our horses, and galloped to our main body. Butwhat a scene presented itself here ! These misguidedmen had their eyes now fully opened on their fatalearors. The enemy were bringing up their whole forceagainst them. I was not long a near spectator of it;for a ball grazed my courser. He plunged and reared—then shot off like an arrow. Several of our officersdrew to the same place. On the knoll we faced about—the battle raged below us. We beheld our com¬mander doing every thing that a brave soldier could dowith factious men against an overpowering foe. Bur¬ley and his troops were in close conflict with Clavers’dragoons. We saw him dismount three troopers withhis own hand. He could not turn the tide of battle,but lie was covering the retreat of these misguided men.Before we could rejoin him, a party threw themselvesin our way. Kennoway, one of Clavers’ officers ledthem on. ‘ Would to God that this was Grairame him¬self,’ senr1 of iny comrades ejaculated aloud. ‘ He fallsto my share,’ said I, ‘ whoever the officer be.’—I ad¬vanced—he met me, I parried several thrusts, he re¬ceived a cut on the left arm; and the sword by thesame stroke, shore oft’one of his horse’s ears ; it plungedand reared. We closed again. I received a stroke onthe left shoulder. My blow fell on Iris sword arm. He20reined his horse around, retreated a few paces, then re¬turned at full gallop. My courser reared instinctivelyas he approached; I received his stroke on the back ofmy ferrara, and by a back stroke, I gave him a deepcut on the cheek. And before he could recover a posi¬tion of defence, my sword fell with a terrible blow onhis steel cap. Stunned by the blow, he bent himselfforward—and, grasping the mane, he tumbled from hissaddle, and his steed galloped over the field. I did notrepeat the blow. His left hand presented his sword ;his right arm was disabled ; his life was given to him.My companions having disposed of their antagonists,(and some of them had two a-piece,) we paused to seethe fate of the battle. Dalzell and Livingstone wereriding over the field like furies, cutting down all in theirway. Monmouth was galloping from rank to rank, andcalling on his men to give quarter. Clavers, to wipeoff the disgrace of Drumclog, was committing dreadfulhavoc. ‘ Can we not find Clavers,’ said Halhead,‘ no said Captain Paton, ‘ the gallant Colonel takes careto have a solid guard of his rogues about 'him. I havesought him over the field ; but I found him, as I nowperceive him, with a mass of his guards about him.At this instant we saw our General, at some distance,disentangling himself from the men who had tumbledover him in the mele. His face, his hands, and clothes,were covered with gore. He had been dismounted, andwas fighting on foot. We rushed to the spot, andcheered him. Our party drove back the scattered bandsof Dalzell. ‘ My friends,’ said Sir Robert, as wemounted him on a stray horse, ‘ the day is lost! But•—you Paton ; you Brownlee of Torfoot, and you Hal-head ; let not that hag fall into the hands of these in¬carnate devils. We have lost the battle, but by thegrace of God, neither Dalzell, nor Clavers shall say thathe took our colours. My ensign has done his duty. Heis down. This sword has saved it twice. I leave itto your care. You see its perilous situation.’ Hepointed with his sword to the spot.——We collected21•ome of our scattered troops, and Hew to the place. Thestandard bearer was down, but he was born upright bythe mass of men who had thrown themselves in fiercecontest around it. Its well known blue and scarlet col¬ours, and its motto, ‘ Christ’s Crown and Covenant,’in brilliant gold letters, inspired us with a sacred enthu¬siasm. We gave'a loud cheer to the wounded ensign,and rushed into the combat. The redemption of thatflag cost the foe many a gallant man. They fell be¬neath our broad swords ; and, with horrible execrationsdying on their lips, they gave up their souls to theirJudge.Here I met in front that ferocious dragoon of Clavers,named Tam Halliday, who had more than once, in hisraids, plundered my halls ; and had snatched the breadfrom my weeping babes. He had just seized the whitestaff of the flag. But his tremenduous oath of exulta¬tion, (we of the covenant never swear)—his oath hadscarcely passed its polluted threshold, when this AndrewFerrara fell on the guard of his steel and shivered it topieces. ‘ Recreant loon !’ said I, ‘ thou shalt this dayremember thy evil deeds.’ Another blow on his helmetlaid him at his huge length, and made him bite the dust.In the vide that followed, I lost sight of him. Wefought like lions—but with the hearts of Christians.While my gallant companions stemmed the tide of bat¬tle, the standard, rent to tatters, fell across my breast.1 tore it from the staff, and wrapt it round my body.We cut our way through the enemy, and carried ourGeneral off the field.Having gained a small knoll, we beheld once morethe dreadful spectacle below. Thick volumes of smokeand dust rolled in a hazy cloud over the dark bandsmingled in deadly fray. It was no longer a battle, but amassacre. In the struggle of my feelings I turned myeyes on the General and Paton. I saw, in the face ofthe latter, an indiscribable conflict of passions. IJis longand shaggy eye-brows were drawn over his eyes. Hishand grasped his sword. ‘ I cannot yet leave the field22sain the undaunted Patou—‘ Witli the General's per¬mission, I shall try to save some of our wretched menbeset by those hell-hounds. Who will go ?—At Kil¬syth I saw service. When deserted by my troops, Icut my way through Montrose’s men, and reached thespot where Colonels Halket and Strachan were. We leftthe field together. Fifteen dragoons attacked us. Wecut down thirteen, and two fled. Thirteen next assailedus. We left ten on the field, and three fled. ElevenHighlanders next met us. We paused and cheered eachother: ‘Now, Johnny,’ died Halket to me, ‘putforth your metal, else we are gone,’ nine others we sentafter their comrades, and two fled Now, who willjoin tins raid !’* ‘ I will be your leader,’ said Sir Hu¬bert, as we fell into the ranks.We inarched on the enemy’s flank. ‘ Yonder isClavers,’ said Patou, while he directed Ids courser onhim. The bloody man was, at that moment, nearlyalone, hacking to pieces some poor fellows already ontheir knees disarmed, and imploring him by the commonfeelings of humanity to spare their lives. He had justfinished his usual oath against their ‘ feelings of human¬ity,’ when Paton presented himself. He instantly letgo his prey and slunk back into the midst of his troop¬ers. Having formed them, he advanced.—We formed,and made a furious onset. Atom- first charge his troopreeled. Clavers was dismounted.—But at that mo¬ment Dalzell assailed us on the flank and rear.—Ourmen fell around us like grass before the mower. Thebuglemen sounded a retreat. Once more in the mcle1 fell in with the General and Paton, we were coveredwith wounds. We directed our flight in the rear ofour broken troops. By the direction of the Gencnd I* This chivalrous defence is recorded, I find, in the life ofCaptain Paton, in the ‘Scots Wcrthies,’ Edin. edit, of A. D.1812. This celebrated Officer was trained up to warfare in thearmy of Charles Gustavus, King of Sweden. This is a speci¬men of these heroic Whigs, who brought about the Revolutionof A. D. 1688.23had unfurled (lie standard. It was born off the fieldflying at the sword’s point. But that honour <<*st memuch. 1 was assailed by three fierce dragoons ; livefollowed close in the rear. 1 callod to Paton, in amoment he was by my side. I threw the standard tothe General, and we rushed on tiie foe. They fell be¬neath our swords ; hut my faithful steed, width hadcarried me through all my dangers was mortally wound-fed. Pie fell. I was thrown in among the fallen em -my. I fainted. I opened my eyes on misery. 1 foundjmyself in the presence of Monmouth—a prisoner—withother wretched creatures, awaiting, in awful suspense,their ultimate destiny. * * * *W. C. B.LONG CREDIT.. Soon after the battle of Preston, two Highlanders,in roaming through the south of Mid-Lothian, enteredthe farm-house of Swanston, near the Penlland Hills,where they found no one at home but an old woman.They immediately proceeded to search the house, andToon finding a web of coarse home-spun cloth, made noIscruple to unroll and cut off as much as they thoughtwould make a coat to each. The woman was exceed¬ingly incenced at their rapacity, roared and cried, andeven had the hardihood to invoke divine vengeance upontheir heads. “ Ye villains!” she tried, “ ye’ll lia'e toI account for this yet!”—“And when will we pc ac¬count for’t?" asked one of the Highlanders.—“ At thelast day, ye blackguards!” exclaimed the woman.; “ Ta last tay !” replied the Highlander : “ 'fat pcttood long credit—we’ll e’en pc tak a waistcoat too!”I at the same time cutting off a few additional yards ofthe cloth.DEATH OF A WATCH.After the battle of Falkii k, in 1746, a Ilighlandinun.was observed extracting a gold watch from the fob of24 /an English officer who had Iteen kilfed. His to.'fi.adeiviewed liim with a greedy eye , which the man takingnotice of, said to him “Tamil you gapin’ creedy bitch,»gang an’ shoot a shentleman for liersel’, an no envieme o’ my pit watch. Next morning finding ids watch ;motionless, and meeting his comrade, says to him,“ Och ! she no be care muckle about a watch, an’ yoube like mine what will you gie me for her ?” The otherreplied, I be venture a hinny.”—Weel then,” said the .other, “ Shust tak her, an’ welcome, for she be dieyester night.”CAPTAIN SILK.In a party of ladies, on it being reported that a Cap¬tain Silk had arrived in town, they exclaimed, with oneexception, ‘ W hat a name for a soldier !’ ‘ The fittestname in the world,’ replied a witty female, ‘ for Silknever can be Worsted !’