BRIEF INQUIRY\WTO THEORIGIN AND TENDENCYi> '• . : ^OFSACRAMENTALPREACHING-DAYS;To which i* added,| ’ 'advice to youth.KtLJIAr.NOCR. :Pr.'ticd by 11. Crawford, Bookseller,1822.ONSacramental Preaching-Days.IT is well known that in all the Presbyterian con- e|nexions in this country, national and dissenting,)-*he celebration of the Lord’s Supper is attended!with a number of extra preaching-days. The previ- l!tous Thursday is wholly devoted to fasting, and pray-f-er, and preaching. The previous Saturday is considereal as a day of preparation, to assist in whichtwo sermons are ordinarily preached. The following;Monday is regarded as a day of thanksgiving, to'assist in which exercise, two sermons are also-1'1preached. Besides, on the Sacrament Sabbath, es¬pecially in country places, there is usually an extra *congregation, collected from the surrounding neighbourhood, to whom a number of discourses are de<Jivered in rotation, from morning till evening. Fewpeople, however, are aware that this practice is emtirely peculiar to Scotland, and that, except amongthe descendants of emigrants originally from thecountry, it is quite unknown beyond the boundariesof ancient CaledoniaWhat then is the or.gin of a practice so singularand of which tire body of professing Christians iitins country arc so very tenacious ?1. it has no foundation in the Bible—neitherprecept nor example can be found there to coiiirtenance it- This is so universally admitted, thait would be unnecessary to stay and prove it. None now pretends to find any thing in the Bibi(rs\3:earing the most distant resemblance to a modernsacrament.i; 2. This practice did not originate with the Scot-ish Reformers, the -founders of the Presbyterianlystem in Scotland. In proportion as professorsiecay in vital religion, in that proportion do they;ecome fond of external 'splendour and show—of: multiplicity of ceremonies and *holy.days, in re¬gion. Accordingly we find, that, as vital godlinesseclined in the primitive churches, ceremonies andbly-days were introduced and multiplied, till, atngth, every trace of the primitive Christian wor-lip disappeared; and the public profession ofhristianity becoming a mass of the most ludicrouslummery—of the most childish rites, retainedothing of the religion of Heaven but the name.When the churches of the Reformation withdrewMom Rome, they brought away with them, andJill retain too many of those meretricious ornaments,| which the man of sin arrayed the religion ofpus. To the honour of the Scotch Reformers itust be remarked, however, that they were in thisMspect in a great measure singular. They rejectedill unscriptural ceremonies and holy-days, and(jiopted a mode of worship sufficiently simple, andpi adapted to all the ends of instruction and edifica-.<m. Of such a religious festival, as is now called ailcramental occasion, they never dreamed. Thejpetory for public worship, adopted by them, isi t only silent on it, but inconsistent with it. Dr.;^‘Crie in his Life of Melville, speaking of thentempt of King James to establish a religiousnljniversary to cumemorate his escape from the"j ispiracy of the Earl of Cowrie, on the 5ih of;; igust 1600; says, “This appointment was at-1 nance with the principles of the Church of Scot-, id, which, ever since the Reformation, had con-i'l't anted and laid aside the observance of religiousanniversaries, and of all recurring holy*dayj, witlj #the exception of the weekly rest.”* This systert »then did not originate with the Reformers—was nc jipart of the Presbyterian worship as originally adopt Ined in Scotland, and approved of by them.3. It is not the result of the collective wisdom os ecombined sagacity of any of the great deliberative ^courts, that usually regulated the affairs of religtorin Scotland, in former times.Though we meet with acts, almost innumerable,!»civil and ecclesiastic, enacting—enjoining—ordain! j,vng various things relative to religion, yet we looliiin vain for an Act of Parliament—of Assembly—Lof Synod or of Presbytery, enjoining that the ad,|,.ministration of the Sacrament be attended with *Lroutine of preaching-days. “ It is to be observed,"jy.says Mr. Douglas, “ that these days svere not afintroduced at once, nor in consequence of any ge®oral consent or pre-concerted plan; fer they are th<mere offspring of incidental circumstances, and catclaim no relation to wisdom and counsel as theiaarenif.”, How then, it will be asked, were they introduced? I answer, strange as the answer may appear, no one knows with certainty when or howWere we tracing to its origin, one of those custonrwhich took their rise in the midnight darkness oropery, disappointment were naturally to be exuected ; but that a custom that cannot boast of tvhundred years standing—thaf. has obtained o universally—and of which, the body of the people anso tenacious, cannot be traced, but by conjectureits rise, is not a little curious! They were int-otreduced,” says Dr. Mason, “like all other un jwarranted rites-r-by stealth. They originate, penHk• Life of Melville, vol. ii. page 171.* Dialogues on the Lord’s Supper,—Dialogue 5th page, :.l♦ sn<4p3, m accident; they are con'.’nned without de-isign ; the popularity of a name recommends them«0 respect; one imitates another : and trmsj or everwe are aware, they glide into the worship of God, t’land usurp the dignity of his institutions.” Andagain, ^ It seems evident that they crept into thechurch by degrees; that custom regardless of the.itreason of things, and equally tenacious of the wrongas of the right, transmitted tnem to posterity ; andthat undistinguishing habit, and the belief cf the.retadle, have numbered them with the ordinances ofhJssus CHarsT.”*It is more than probable, that they were graduallyintroduced during the prevakne;* of Episcopacy,* and of the cruel persecution by which it was inero-rdaoed and established against the general sentiment1 of the nation, during the first forty yeats of the 17thjjiteentury. In the course cf this period, many godlytcouscienttous ministers were banished to Ireland,inhere they preached with great success, and from.rfchenee they occasionally visited their native land,qlo preach to their countrymen. On those occasions,(she people crowded from all parts of the countryiio hear them, and to enjoy the Lord’s Supper inihe way to which they had been accustomed. No.tfiing was more natural than that the people, whoii.ad literally a famine of the word of God, should3 n those occasions eagerly desire as many seitnoasis could be afforded; and that those godly menWiould, as far as possible, gratify them. Saturdaybnd Monday sermons, were therefore, exceedinglyabtural, when crowds were collected at the ap.uminted places, on, or before Saturday, who couldfit retire to their homes till the following week.jj-It is indeed probable, that such occurrences,occasionally at least, tu©k place previously to theLetters on frequent Cooimnnion.—Letter Cth,6l:height of the persecution which drove them intobanishment. While many of their brethren fellin with the prevailing practice, the people wouldnaturally, follow those who held by their own•beloved system, and suffered persecution for con-screncc’ sake; and the attachment of the body of dthe people to them, and their aversion to the Epis¬copalian and temporizing Presbyterian clergy,would naturally increase the violence of the perse-emion against them.In Ireland, the zealous labours of those men produced a considerable revival of religion. “ During' ^this time/’ says Mr. Randal, “ one sermon on Satur- tday, and one on Monday, was all that they had ;/tand generally but one minister assisting during theiwhole,”* From this extract it appears, that a prac-tice to which persecution had given rise in Scotlandwas continued, probably without the same necessity,in Ireland. We may, therefore, conclude, thatwhen those good men returned to their native land,about the year 1638, they imported this practiceinto their former scene of labour, where it has conttnued with various modifications ta this day.The late Dr. Erskine, speaking of the origin ofthis plan, says, I know no certain account of thatmatter. It began, says one, in the persecuting times,when many ministers under Hiding, and the wholePresbyterians of a country, by stealth, got togetherAnd when they met together for this end, (to eai,the Lord’s Supper,) it may be once in several yearsthey knew not how often to preach ; and the peoplhad a boundless appetite to hear, so long as the;could subsist and be safe.”fAs to Sacramenta) Fasts, Mr. Randal suppose c* Letter to a minister of the church of Scotland from his frienc jconcern'* g frequent Communicating.—Postcript,f Disscrtatiou on fiequent Communicating.7nat they are also from Ireland. Daring the re.dence of the Scotch ministers in that country,ney jointly held a monthly meeting for fasting; rmd frequently the Lord's Supper was celebrated ’r one or other of their parishes, on the followingiabbath. “ I know,” says, Mr. Randal, “ no suchkely beginning to our Fasts befoie our Sacramentss this is.”*4 It is true, that Mr. Livingston preached on thelonday after the Sacrament at the Kirk of Shots,i the year 1630, but this sermon being preach* Ji t the particular request of Lady Culross, and withi ume reluctance on nis part, proves that it was notaen customary, nor understood to have any connex-An with the Lord’s Supper.The foregoing conjectures of various writers,(rho have enquired into the subject; furnish us withe only probable origin of this system ; and had iten laid as de when the cause wiiicti gave rise toceased to operate, it had been welt. But theMintinuance of it without any adequate cause, ornational use, has done no little injury.i| Before entering on the second part of the inquiryjlz, the TfcfJUEscY of this system, I must premisewo things.4 L That l have no objections to week-day sermonsb| such. It is the duty of preachers to “ be instanti| season and out of season;” and where people:re ready to hear, the opportunity ought to beSigerly embraced; and may be expected to beolllowed with happy effects.2 That I have no doubt that Sacramentalj -eaching-days may have been made useful on manyy|casions, in the conversion of sinners, and buildi-.gr of believers in faith and holiness. Ged hasr omrsed that his word shall not return unto him* I-etter, &c.—Postcript.8»; and wherever dispensed according to hisjown institution, his blessing may be expected withit. Yet notwithstanding these concessions, I main¬tain, with Dr. Mason, that this system is “ attendedwith great and serious evils.’'* These evils, mayperhaps be comprehended under two heads—puttingthe Lord’s Supper out of its proper place, and con- ctributing to its profanation.1. The system of preaching-days has put theLord’s Supper out of its proper place among gospelinstitutions. That the Lord’s Supper made a partof the public worship of the primitive churches, »ivery fits! day of th; week, admits not of rationaldoubt. What else would any man unfettered bysystem, infer from tbe following passages, Acts it.4^2. “ They continued stedfastly in the apostles’doctrine, and fellowship, and breaking of bread,and prayers ” Here, the breaking of bread is men¬tioned, not as an extraordinary occurrence, butas a part of the ordinary duties of stated publicworship. Act's xx. 7 “On the first day of theweek, when the disciples came together to breakbread, Paul preached unto them.” Here, it isevident, that one special design of their coming to¬gether, on the first day of the week, was to breakbread. 1 Cor. xi. 20. “ When ye come together,therefore, unto one place, this is not to eat the '>Lord’s Supper.” This shews that the avowed tie--sign of their coming tog-rther was to eat the Lord’sSupper ; but that their manner of doing it was incon¬sistent with this design. These passages, mutuallyillustrate and confirm one another; and it would jbe a violent wresting of them, to compel them tospeufc any other language.Nor was this the piactice of the apostolic churches'!merely, but continued for ages the invariable practice* Letters on frequent Communion.—Letter 7t1l.9fn-’• ori of all Christian societies. The late Mr. Ram.i! after having minutely investigated the records m:ij the primitive ages of Christianity, on this subje^thus concludes, “ Consider then antiquity in wh jview you please, the elder or the later accounts ;-j;_: consider it among enemies or friends;—view itI its truth or in its lies;—in its simplicity or insuperstitions;—consider all the accounts, which a.f)| sorts of men have given; take the evidence from a■iidistant corners of the world, and opposite character*iin it as you please, from those who have no biaij■but to the truth, or from such whose opinions anxlinterests would lead tl^m to give this subject a co^i iour if it could bear it,—and all with one voice sbavdeclare, that to come together on the first day olithe week to break bread, was from the beginning^[jjand for many ages, the custom, the uninterrupted,mmquestioned, undisputed practice of all Christian•'fchnrcbes: as much so, as it was their practice to.jUkanctify the Lord’s day, or to pray, praise, or preachaithe apostles’ doctrine on it:—that as this was theajnost distinguishing part of their worship, so wast what they and their worship was described by,nd the action by which among themselves, theord's day was known, what consequently theyould least and last of all have omitted, whileiftny degree of the purity of the gospel remainednnrnong them.”*| The late Mr- Brown of Haddington, is equallyi| ecistve oa the subject. “ That the Sacrament ofne Lord’s Supper,” says he, “ was generally ad*ministered every Lord’s day, for the ?-pace of three'Hundred years, is beyond dispute.”-j-■lla Letter to a minister of the church of Scotland from his friend,concerning frequent Communicating,tjiApology for the frequent administration of the Lord's Sup¬per, page 6.10]0»<t appears that the Reformers were generally oi LJJitc same mind on this subject, although from thf Iftade materials on which they had to work, they ahw&re obliged to temporize. Calvin says, expressly||iPat “ the Lord’s table ought to be spread for hi:taildren every Lord’s day ” The Genevan Refortiers introduced it monthly into their church, and illppears that the Scotch Reformers, as was to bi;'xpecr^d, followed their example; for the Bool jk:of common Order,” supposes that the Lotd’s Supiirper was administered once a month. But with thV 1present preaching appendages, it is impossible td|tnake any thing like an approach toward the priniijaJive practice. Thus a set oi u:\scriptural holy-day , k‘—the mere inventions of men, have put the Lord'||Supper out of its own piacetions—have driven it into a corner,remembered, is the view of thisamons* gospel institujsubjNor let it b:ct maintained iin this Inquiry, peculiar to those who act up«n it |Presbyter'ans, both in and out of the establishmen i:have lately advocated the cause of weekly com I;nmoion, by arguments that cannot be refuted. Th Iwritings of Randal and Erskine in the Establishli'men-, of Douglas and Hutchsson among th|Relief, and of Brown and Mason among the Stceders, are well known, and well worthy of thjattention of all who would inquire into this subjectI am glad to know, that a respectable Presbytcria,congregation in Paisley, have been for years in thfhabit of eating the Lord’s Supper monthly, jftrust, they are aware, that “ they have not yattained, neither are already perfect”—that the jhave no more Bible authority for monthly, tha |they have lor yearly communion ; except that tlone is nearer the Divine rule than the other.2. The system of preaching-days has put tilLord’s Stipper out of its place, in point of solemnit1.and importance.i The Lord’s Supper is a very solemn, a very ?nj-aortant ordinance ; but that it is so in a manner or( n a degree peculiar to itself, is without proof in' eae;c,n or in Scripture- What Paul says to the• florinthians on this subject, (1 Epistle chap, xi )^ irises not from any peculiar solemnity in this ordi-i lance, but from the manner in which they prostitutedi;nd profaned it. All the ordinances of the Lord|’■e solemn and important, and tc profane any of11tem is highly criminal. The ordinance ol Paptism,sjor instance, is instituted by thesame authority, andq esigned to represent the same truth—.he salvationi f sinners by the death of Christ; must it not then■: e equally solemn, and equally important: andi |ust not the abuse or profanation of it be equallyi Hminal. Yet how few are there, even amongz hristians, who view the subject in this light—t ho would not shudder at the thought of placingarkptism on a level, in point of solemnity and im-:i yrtance, with the I.ord s Supper Now whences»es this supposed disparity arise? Not fromtile language of scripture on the subject of theserestitutions, surely. *:• Baptizing them in theme of the Father, and of the Sen and of tho) ply Ghost,” is, to say the least of it, just as solemn'd impressive, as, • Do '.his in remembrance of—‘ As often as ye eat this bread and drink thisye do shew the Lord’s death till he ceme.’|t from the nature of these institutions, for if theyenjoined by the same authority—distinct partslithe same religious system, and designed to re¬sent the same important truth, they must be|e solemn in their nature, and alike entitled toreverence and veneration. It must arise-tliere-iqb, principally, from the spurious glare thrown■bibnd the latter by a parade of holy-days, andHipin of prescribed exercises, by means of whicht^jry other ordinance is thrown into the shade, andAbndles into comparative insignificancy !123. The system of preaching*daf'S has put theLord’s Supper out of its proper place, in the affec*tions of the Lord’s people.These preaching-days have now been so long,a..'i so closely appended to it, that they are viewedas an ettenlUl part of it; so much so, that to proposeto lay them aside, would, in the esteem even of se»rious Christians, be nearly as bad as giving up theLord’s Supper In fact, it is not eating the Lord’sSupper, bin the preaching.Jays, that in the estima¬tion of the bulk of Christians constitute the Sacra¬ment! It is these that constitute its mam importance—its principal charm ; hence appropi lately enoughcalled the preachings. Strip it of these external de¬corations—exhibit it in its native and primitivesimplicity—introduce it as a part of the public wor- iship of every Lord’s day, and it will require nolittle training, to bring the minds of many Christianin this country, to view it without contempt Suchis the baneful influence of attempting to impioveon the plans of Divine wisdom, and of adding tothe institutions of tfe Lord ! Besides, the false andfearful solemnity thrown over the Lord’s Supperby these unscriptural appendages, contributes greatlyXo mar the peace and destroy the confidence of ser¬ious Christians in this delightful service. In placecf eating the Lord’s Supper with the confidenceand freedom of children placed around their heav¬enly Father’s board, they frequently approach withfear and trembling, their minds are possessed with ifearful apprehensions of displeasing him, and s©|incurring his wrath ; and their service is thus des-titure of enjoyment, and their worship is often at-4tended with a ‘ spirit of bondage unto fear,’ imsmN|able it) their character, displeasing to God, and not;a little distressing to their own minjis.. Now, withe ,fuch apprehensions, and feehngs. and views, the|tj.T.ord’s Supper cannot be approached with dy:rgb»,miISSor regaried with affection. Th6 preaching-daysmay be attended \virh pleasure, and with p-ofit;liiit the table of the Lord is rather an obi ct < f fear*chan of delightful anticipation—a scene ■ > ftar andicrembhog, rather than of filial confidence and joyin Gcd. Now, this state of things, which is by nomeans uncommon, must, in the case of Christians,arise in a great measure from the distorted viewsbf its nature and design which rhese extra days*with their usual Services, are calculated to inspire.Whereas, when viewed in its native simplicity, un«encumbered with human inventions, as a c mme-t moration of the death of Christ, and a symbolicalrepresentation of the fellowship of all the chddrenbf God with the Father, and with his Son JesusChrist, and w ith one another in the enjoyment ofthe common salvation, it is calculated in the highestipcgree, to inspire the Christian’s mind wMi confi-■ licence, and joy in God.* But, not only have the. ijpreaching-days put the Lord’s 8upper out of itsiproper place in every point of view', but they have.2. Greatly contributed to its profanation.This is no doubt a serious charge, a charge thatkrwonld need to be well supported, seeing they areiprofessedly designed to prevent this evil: yet, I ara* From the mb’pplication of such passages, (Kxod. chaptersrixix. and xx ) many of the best of Christians approach their re-l iconciled God and Father with a slavish fear like that of theslsrie)it,,s wlien approaching the mount that burned with Src;i or that of Peter when he said, ‘‘depart from me, for I am ailLsinful mar.” t hey sit down at the table of the Lord, with astigreat terror as the high priest entered the holiest of all ”—i “ Doubtless, the seldom dispensing this oidiranee h; s ltd manyof the less judicious into such melancholy supeistitious appre-l! hensions, and roused such terrors in their minds, that they couldf not attend upon God in this institution without distraction, andthus were deprived of much of the comfort and benefit, whichi(otherwise they would have reaped from it,"   Etsltine’si I-isaertation on frequent ComiruBia&ting-—..Section 8d»persuaded, the charge will be found but too easily Imade out. be- ■ -» \ bTo profane a religious ordinance is, either to<render it c ntemptlble in ' e eyes of men, or to iapply it to purposes fw which it was not desutned* >Now ih both these respects, the Lord's.Supper isgreidv profaned by this unscriptural system.—It "is rendered con" mptible in the eyes oi all drinkingmen, whether reli 'Otis or otherwi-e.Contempl ""e, for a moment.’the scene of a 1cotmtrv Sacrament Sabbath A number of the ineighboorm t mmtsters must attend,.to assist—their sparishes^ or congregations, if Dissenter'--, are leftvacant—should the day be flirourable, the bulk ofthe population of these parishes crowd to the Sacra»ment, rrvanv, no doubt, from, pious motives, butthe multitude, princ’pally youth of both sexes, forthe same puVpo c f ,r which they would go to a fairor a market.—a no use me nr and diversion, to see andbe seen Look at the hustle and confusion whichthe village presents; t ie roads, and streets, andlan'*s. crowded with comers and goers all the day¬long; look at the public-houses ; the ordinary num¬ber in some nl tees will not do ; the publicans hiretheir neighbours’ houses, andi employ waiters tosell their spirits; everv window presents some sig¬nificant mark, to indicate what is going on within. |Think of the bustle, the confusion, the noise, that 1this state of things must create; not to speak of thedrunkenness, the quarreling, and even fighting, thatsometimes ensue ; think on these things notori -uslytrue, and say, can this be a religious ordinance, aChristian institution : Is it not much more like apopi h carnival, thm a gospel ordinance? In fact,it is undeniable, that the scenes of a country Sacra-ment .have furnished a late profane wit with mate,rials sufficiently appropriate for his ‘ Holy Fair.’What a degrading, what a contemptible view, do15Ih.'Se scenes present to thinking men, of the holyijn-titution of the Lord’s Supper!! What must:c:ptics, and infidel', and scoff rs of all descriptions,4&nk of that religion, of which they are supposedLc be a part! I know, it will be said that theseifffnses are no part of the ordinance of the Supper._ know they are not. But-why, then, are theyussociated with it? Why are they appended to it?: t^hy is a system continued, calculated to produceI md perpetuate such abuses? Would the simple; nbservance of the Supper pioduce such effects, ifbpese unscriptural appendages were given up Im*possible. While this system is c ntinued, thesebuses will follow' it; and all attempts to persuadenen of the difference between these abuses, and theystem that gives birth to them, will prove vainnd fruitless.In an overture of the Synod of Glasgow andyr, dated Oct. .5, IT'tS, we find the following re-arkable declaration, in exact unison with what hasiflbeen said above :—‘ That the mariner in w’hich thisffholy ordinance (of the-Supper) is administeredIpimong us, greatly obstructs the more frequent ad-Inriini strati on of it; and particularly, the number oftlisemidns on such occasions, and the many parishesijithereby laid vacant upon the Lord’s day. are accom-fflpanied with several great inconveniences, if not also,;otoo often, wijh scandalous profanations of that holy day.J—That it would be for the interest and honour ofis religion, that some method were devised, wherebyir these abuses might be avoided, and the Lord’s Sup-3 per more frequently administered, agreeably to thein word of God, to the apostolic practice, and to ther practice of the primitive church,’*But this system tends to the profanation of theLoid’s Supper in another, and a still mere serious* See Dialogue! on the Lord’s Supji?r, p, 49,—Note,16h'gfct; it becomes the grand means of ptmtituii^g j.it to carnal, unrmewed menThe Lord’s Supper is intended for those only rv>are his disciples,- who love the Lord Jesus, who fslinterested in his death, and who therefore can is« [«member Jiat death wdth those grateiul and piou vfeelings that are suited to the exercise, pleasingGod, and profitable to the soul. All others, Se i*they outwardly sober or profane, moial or immoral, ,,are without any right to it, without any just views; jof it, without any advantage from u, and cons?-f.quently only prostitute and profane it. But itnotorious, that multitudes, who give not the mostdistant evidence of conversion to God, will be found';seated at the communion table, on the SacramentSabbath. Now, ro this prostitution of this sacredordinance, these services greatly contribute. The*’design and meaning of them, is to assist intendingcommunicants in a train of previous preparation,to fit them for this important service. Hence theannouncing of the Sacrament, some weeks before,becomes a sort of distant warning of the necessityof beginning preparation. But, on the prepara¬tion Sabbath, a number of duties and exercises,in the view of the approaching ordinance, are pre¬scribed; which, from their immediate connexion^with it, are not understood to be necessary on or-*dinary occasions. Now, from what is ordinarilyraid on these occasions, people, even tire most 'careless and irreligious, commonly infer two things^—that going to the Lord’s table is an importantduty, a duty which it would be very criminal anddangerous to neglect, and which, being performed,will be attended with some special, though mysteri¬ous advantage, such as, eating the flesh, and drink¬ing the blood of Christ, &c.; and, that a regularattendance on the public services of the week, andsome attention to the personal exercises prestribed.17will prepare for the do* performance of this neces¬sary duty. Whh the idea thus impressed on theirijrn'nds, that the would-be holiness of a week willcompensate for the unrighteousness of a year, and■»ecure the favour and approbation of God, what iso be expected, but that multitudes, without faith,without repentance, without holiness, without lov*o God, to his law, to his Son, or to his people,Ihou'd, after a few formal prayers, and other pre-Ticrbed duties, during the Sacrament week, be foundit the communion table, on the Sacrament Sabbath,n the expectation of clearing scores with their\fakcr, who will as naturally, a*id as certainly, turnligain to their vices, as the dog to his vomit, or the"ow to the mire!1 It is impossible not to see what a ruinous lurehis must become to multitudes of precious souls,|*hat a sad and fearful prostitution of a sacred or-iflicailce, and what a distorted view of the simpleand holy religion of Jesus, it roust present to theiltrorld. Whereas, let it be exhibited in its scriptural'frequency and simplicity, let it be divested of theparade of extra services that now mar its beauty,and obscure its meaning ; let people be taught thatIt is not any course of prescribed preparation, butUhe possession of a previous character, that gives?]jiighc to it, and benefit from it, and it will, by theiidessing of God, go far to pi event these evils^ ‘ Frequent and simple communion,’ says Dr.iMason, ‘ w ill probably purge the church of unwor-l[hy members. Perhaps there could not be devisedmore effectual expedient for ge<ting rid of them,«!han employing them in spiritual work. With^abundance of formality, they may attend to the no-iorious externals of religion : and as a bridle to con-cience, and a set-off to character, they may haveio objection to the communion, if it be not too often.dl)nce or twice a-year will do. But strip this pre- —  18 *cions ordinance of the additions that nurture legality* jiand flatter pride; let it be as plain as the Bible \rmade it, and as often as a believer needs it; let ithere be nothing to render it impressive, but its |esubject, or alluring, but its spirituality ; and mark 'the consequence. The former zealot will cool; >:Novelty, decency, example, may secure his com- »pliance for a while; but it will be strange if his^ t<impatience do not ac last get the ascendancy^ aWithout affection to Jesus-Cmist. he will tire ofbis Supper. Without a principle of spiritual life* ;he will count spiritual worship intolerable 5 the !more spiritual, the rjore intolerable; and the holy rcommunion, the most intolerable of all. His souli will loathe rhe heavenly manna, and by degrees he rwill drop ofF.’#—‘ Are there not many now,’ saysMr. Randai, ‘ who bear the fatigue of waiting ona yearly Sacramem, for different reasons, who wouldtire of an habitual continuing in what they haveno relish tor or a church tire of them ?'fThe late of Mr. Brown of Haddington, accounts;in the following rational manner, for the originaldeviation horn the primitive frequency and sinl-plicii v of the Lord’s Supper.—: When the churchbegan 10 share the smiles and support of the Em¬peror, and his court, multitudes, influenced by car¬nal motives, thronged into it, and they were easilyadmitted, though indeed many of them were farfrom being visible saints These carnal and courtChristians disliked being from week to ^eek em¬ployed in seif examination, and other prepaiatorywork, or living under the impression of so frequentand solemn appro-aching to God- They also dis¬liked the simplicity of this, as well as other gospeloidinances, and we.e mightily fond that the Chris-Lettess on Frequent Communion, Letter 9,■{• Letter to a ivlmisn r, &c.»9an worship she rid be modelled at near the Pagam■ nd Jewish forms as possible. The clergy, pos¬sessed with the same vitiated taste, And besidesicing very solicitous to procure themselves the fa-rour of the great, transformed the Christian wor¬ship according to these patterns To the sameourpose, speaks the.late Dr. Lrskine—‘ In the fourth•K pentury, defection from tlie primitive purity of thephurch, began more and more to appear. Themost probable cause I can assign for this, is, thati .ill then the religion of Christ being persecuted, fewiroftssed it, who had not felt the power of it onheir hearts. But soon after, Christianity becominghe established religion of the empire, a greater!i|mraber of hypocrites honr views of worldly inter-,Ht, intermingled themselves with the true disciples ofChrist; and in a century or two more, this little leaven!i|reavened the w hole h.n p ’—‘ Such nominal Chris-itians could have no just sense of the use and benefitpf the Lord’s Supper, and tiro obligations to frequentt Having only the form of godliness, without||he power of it, it is no wonder that the frequent•dreiurn of religious exercises should be uneasy and• iai is agreeable to them. Their example would soon. pe followed by lukewarm Christians, who had fallen0 rom their first love ’f1 From the foregoing extracts, we see to whatbihese respectable Presbyterians attribute the first^departure from the simplicity of Christian worshipi—to the introduction of crowds of umenewed menJimo fellowship with the churches; and if similarpauses produce similar effects, wherever this prac-«ice is continued, all attempts at scriptural reforma-ittion will be defeated by these characters. We needJfiot wonder that the Reformers, with all their in-ir/Ruence, could not carry their reformation, on this* Apology for Frequent Communion, p. 11,-f- Dissertation, &c. Section 2,20head, to any thing Klee the Bible pattern, or to 'whstlthey themselves saw to have been the primitiv« tpractice; when we consider that multitudes embrac .ed the Teformed doctrines, who gave no evidencl iof conversion to God, and that all who became i:Protestants, were admitted to fellowship with th« 1Protestant churches Principal' Baillie, of the Unit Vversity of Glasgow, one of the Commissioners from ttScotland, to the Westminster Assembly, in one olhis Letters, says, that not one in forty of the mem*bens of th> best reformed churches, gave any evi- tdence of true grace and regeneration ! How is it Ipossible that such churches could be reduced to anything like scriptural order of discipline, or that .>such fearful crowds of unconverted men could be wbrought under the influence of the authority of c:Christ, of of the love of his simple and holy insti- ttutions ? And in proportion- as this state of thing* -continuej, in that proportion is leformatioir, in re« 'gard to the Supper, or any other point of scrip tural iorder, unattainable. I am persuaded that thereare now very few godly ministers, who have thought ■■at all on this subject, who are not convinced in their 1consciences, that the Lord’s Supper was designed,and continued for ages to be a weekly institution 'of the Christian dispensation ; and that, consequently,sacramental preaching days are not only unscrip-tura] inventions of men ; but also the cause of muchdelusion, the source of much self-righteousness, andthe occasion of a dreadful prostitution of this sacredordinance.But then, as most churches are now composedand constituted, they are aware that any reforma¬tion, worthy of the name, is quite out of the ques¬tion. Hence they endeavour to make the most andthe best of things as they are. Indeed, when;men prove to a demonstration, that the Lord’sSupper was for ages a weekly institution with the121flowers of Christ, with what grace can they insist,as Randal, and Erskine, and Brown, and others," ve done, on a reformation that would only carryt to three or lour times a year! There is some¬thing so incongruous in it, that thinking men ratherilet it alone altogether, than lay themselves open torlthe charge of such inconsistency.On the whole, if sacramental preaching-days bein their origin modern, in their nature unscriptural,in their tendency injurious—if they have put theCord’s Supper ont of its place, and surroundedit with a spurious solemnity—if they have marred; ts native simplicity, and obscured its genuine mean-wng—they become the grand means of alluringcarnal, unconverted men, to prostitute this sacredunstitution, and to deceive and min their own soulsit they give the world an unscriptural view ofrlChristian institutions, and become an effectual bar--iffier to reiormation on this head, (and Presbyterians.Ijnave often acknowledged, and deplored as much,)■t—-if so, it is high time they were laid aside j and its high time, too, that Christians, and especially.(Christian ministers, were seriously inquiring, howxhey shall-be able to answer to God, for supportingHand countenancing a system, so unscriptural in itsmature, and so hurtful to saints and sinners, in itsIjieildency; and that too, it may be in direct opposi-ion to the convictions of their own minds! Toonclude. let the reader attend to the followingueries, by the late Mr. Brown:—‘ Whether is itrace or corruption that most affects to add humanevices to God’s worship to make it more splendidhan Christ teas left it ? May not persons be as reallyuilty of popery, by doating on the splendid pompf divine ordinances, that consists in the variety ofays, sermons, and ministers, as by doating on theVariety of fantastic ceremonies used in the popishIrass ? Ought we not to beware of adding to God’s22ordinarces, *s well as ot taking from them?Ged content to barter with us on this point, bgiving up with frequent communion, if we will anex a few more days, sermons, ministers, and peoplito it, when seldom administered ? Where does hieither make, or declare his acceptance of, this pmposal ?’*—The reader is requested to endeavour t'answer these queries; in his owa mind, as in thsight of God.* Apology, &c. p. 37.Advice to Youth,11ALL in this country bear the name of Christians,and acknowledge the truth of the Bible; yet thereis reason to fear, that the revelation of God is inigeneral completely mistaken. Christianity commemded as containing an admirable system of morality,■while the foundation of this morality is entirely-overlooked. Love to God and men is universallyacknowledged to be a duty ; but men disobey God,and injure one a:■oilier, from the strength ot theirpassions, in the indulgence of which they endeavourto ootain happiness.The Bible lays the axe to the root of human cor¬ruption. It informs us that so far as the presentlife is concerned, our doom is fixed ; that, in conse¬quence of sin, sorrow, disappointment and death areour lot in this world : and that we may as well ex¬pect to stop the sun in his course, as to escape them.It also informs us, that God so loved the world as i230 give his only begotten Son, that whosoever be-ieveth in him should not perish, but have eternallife. To him we are directed as the ot ly Saviour::rom sin, and sorrow, and death. We are assured.hat those who trust in him shad never come intocondemnation ; that through him God pardons thejnost guilty ; that all believers shall be raised fromHie dead to dwell with Jesus for ever. The know¬ledge of this salvation is the foundation of Christianmorality. The man who believes this, will no longerpursue happiness where he knows it to be unattain-ible. In the life and death of Jesus, he has learnedthe impossibility of escaping wT.at is appointed forlill; »nd now his hopes of happiness centre in beingiraised from the dead, and sh i iog the blessings ofthe kingdom of Christ. This )e tds him to considerrhimself a stranger and pilprim here. He looks fora city which hath foundations, whose builder andmaker is God. Here is a lesson which philosophyicould never teach This, says an apostle, is the1 victory vrhich overcometh the world, even our faith,: 1 John v. 4.Reader are you possessed of this faith ? Are you(Waiting for the appearing ot the Son of God: Does| the love of Christ in giving himself to die for sinners,iconstrain-you to live not to yourself but to God?I if su, happy are you, Your trials will soon he over,:iiand you shall enter into the joy c{ your Lord. But| ah ! d this be not the case ; l, yuurmind be engrossed| with earthly objects; if the love of sin be unbrokeni in your heart, you have cause to tremble. Thatj Jesus, who once died for sin on C .ivary : who came>1 meek and lowly, and having salvation, will shortly|| come in the clouds of heaven with power and greatII glory to consume all who disregard his authority,5 and who pretened the enjoyment of the vanities ofh time and sense to the glorious prospect of inheritingij his kingdom.2*Reject not this solemn warning. If hitherto y jhave been careless and worldly minded, now lo|to the blood of Christ which cleanseth from all si iSearch the scriptures. They contain the words .eternal life; aud this life can only be enjoyed tjfaith in the Son of God.Yon have perhaps often resolved not to give wjto your passions* You have reflected on the u>satisfactory nature of earthly enjoyments, and dete.mined to be their slave no longer but you hav1broken these resolutions, and are still hurried fo£iward in pursuit of that which experience teacheyou to be unsatisfactory and vain. Hearken novto Jesus. He invites you to true happiness. Hpromises you indeed neither riches nor honour irthis &orld. He requires you to take up your cros:and follow him ; patiently to endure, as he did, thesorrows of this life, under the animating assurance iof a glorious resurrection to eternal life.Reader, reject not the counsel of God againstyourself. To Jesus every knee shall bow. If nowyou submit to him, he will guide and support youwhile here, and afterwards receive you to glory. But,if you neglect his great salvation, if you now refuseto hearken to his voice, the time is approaching whenit will arouse you from your grave, to receive fromhis lips that irreversible sentence which awaits ali iwho lend a deaf ear to the proclamation of mercy.With this solemn warning, I now take leave ofyou, appealing for the truth of the contents of thispaper to the unerring word of God, to which youat all times have access, and which shall judge youat the last day.FINIS.