THEASTONISHINGANDDelightful HistoryOFJACKAND THEGIANTS.STIRLING :IRINTBB BY M. BAftpALL*iy* a«T8i*jssJ&k.1THEHISTORYOETACK and the GIANTS.CHAP. Lf his birth and parentage, and how hediscoursed with a country Vicar, whenhe was but seren years old,N the reign of King Arthur, nearthe land’s end qf England, namely,e country of Cornwall, there lived xealthy farmer, rvho had one only son,nimonly known by the name of Jacke Giant killer. He was brisk, and of arely ready wit j so that whatever he4could not perform by force and strengthhe compleated by ingenious wit andpolicty. Never was anv person heirdof that could worst him, nav the verylearned many times he baffled by hiscunning, sharp, ready invemions.For instance, when he was no morethan sewn years of age, his father, thefarmer, sent him into the field, to lookafter his oxen, whicii were then feed-jpg in a plea-.ent p store : a countryvicar by chance one day coming acrossthe field, called to Jack, and askedhim several questions j in particular.How many commandments there were ?Jack told him, There were nine. Theparson replied, There are ten. Nay(quoth Jack) master parson, you areout in that, it is true there were ten,but you broke one of them with yourmaid Margery. The parson replied,I hou art an arch wag Jack; Wellmaster parson (quoth Jack) you haveasked me one question, and I have an¬swered it j I beseech you, let me askyovi auociurr Who made these oxen ?.Tiie> parson replied, God made themdiild. You a-e out a''aia (c]uot:i JVc!;)for Go t made the:n bulls, but my fa¬ther, and h^s man Hobson mad* oxenof them. T hese are the vritty answersof Jack. The parson finding himselfioll’d, trudged away. leaving Jack in aiac of laughter.CHAP. II.How a Giant inhabited the Mount ofCornwall, and of the great spoil whichhe made in the neighbouring lands.IN those days the Mount of Cornwall,was swept by a hug and monstrousGiant, of eighten feet in height andabout three yards is compass, of a fierceland grim countenance, the terror or allthe neighbouring towns and villages ;his habitation was in a cave, in themidst of all the mount, neither wouldhe suffer any living creature to inhabitnear him : His feeding was upon other6men’s cattle which often became hisprey tor whensoever he had occasionfor food, he would wade over the mainland, where he would turnish himselfwith whatever he could find. -For thepeople at his approach would forsaketheir habitations; then did he seize ontheir cows and oxen, of v hich he wouldmake nothing to carry over on his backhalf a dozen at a time ; and as for theirsheep and hogs, he would tie themround his waste like a bunch of bande-li* rs. This he for manv years had0 ✓practised in Cornwall, which was muchi poverished by .hmi.But one day Jack coming to thetown-hall, when the magistrates--weresiring in consultation about the Giant,lie asked them, wha^ reward they wouldgive to any person that would destroyhim ? J hey answered, he should haveall the'Giant’s treasure in recompeuce,Quoth Jack then I myself will under¬take the work.7CHAP. III.How Jack slew this monstrous Giant,and trom that time was called Jack theGiant killer.JACK having undertaken his task.he furnishes himself with a horn,shovel, and pick-ax, and over to theMount he goes, in the beginning of adark winter evening, where he fell towork, and before morning had diggeda pit, two and twenty feet deep, andalmost as broad, and covered the sameover with long sticks and straws ; thenstrewing a little of the mould upon it,it appeared like the plain ground.This done, Jack places himself onthe contrary side of the pit, just aboutthe dawning of the day, when puttinghis horn to his mouth, he then blewTan Twivie, Tan Twivie. This un¬expected noise roused the Giant, who. 8came roaring towards Jact, crying cur,You incorrigible villain ! are you comehere to disturb my rest ; you shalldearly pay f6r it ; I sati sfaction I willhave, and it shall be tlds ; I will takeyou whole and broil you for my break¬fast. Which words were no soonerout of his mouth, but he tumbled headlong into this deep pit, whose heavyfall made the very foundation of theMolum to shake.Oh ! Giant, quoth Jack, where areyou now ^ faith you are gotten intoLob’s pond, where I will plague youh r your threatening words What doyou think now of broiling me for yourbreakfast ? will no other diet serve butnoor J*ck. 1 hus having tantalizedme Giant for a while, he gave him amost weighty knock upon the crownor the head with his pick ax, that heimmediately tumbled down, and givinga most dreadful groan, died. T hisdone, Jacic threw the earth in uponhim, and so buried him ? then goingai d searching the cave, he^ found agreat quantity oi treature.9Now when the v.,r.cemp’oyed him, heard r ‘ oif: . -j.over, ’•hey ser»r for/.mm,V:*-cU.r; -.g, trtit¬he J >e ■:cetoi i;» oe c »: ■ ed, J • cKthe Giaot-iviiier. A d in honor there¬of, they presen ed hhn vrij a Sv. ord,together "/ith a embroid^. e i i/df,on which these words were wrote mletters of gold.Here’s the right valiant Cornish man,Who slew the Giaut Cormiiian.CHAP. IV.How Jack was surprised by a Giantwhile he was asleep, and of the dangerthat he v ent through before he obtainedhis liberty, &c,T '•HE ’ ews of Jac^'^ victory was1 soon spread over all the westren,part, so that another uug Giantnamed Blundeboar, hearing of it, vow¬ed to be revanged on Jack, if it be e*verv 10was his fortune to light on him. Thi;Giant kept an enchanted castle, situat«i't;in the midst of a loansome wood. NowJack about for months after walking tnear to the borders of the said wood, in :his journey towards Wales he grewweary, and thereafore sat him’eif downby the side of a pleasent fountain, wherea dead sleep suddenly seized on him : at iwhich the Giant coming there for wa- iter, found him, and by the lines writtenon his belt, knew him to be Jack thatkilifd his brother Giant ; and therefore,without making any words, he throwshim upon his shoulder, for to carrry himto his enchanted castle.New as they passed through a thicket |the inffling of the bows au akned poorJack, who finding himself in the clut¬ches of the Giant, was strongly sur¬prised, yet it »as but the beginning ofhis terror* for at entering within the firstwalls of the castle, he beheldjthe groundall Qovered with bones ard sculls of deadmeo. The Giant telling Jack, “ thathid bones would enlarge the number thatV1■■■■■■■■■IIlf (be f5aw. This said, he brought hininto a large parlour, where he beheldthe bloody quarters of some that werelately slain,a id ia the next room werehearts and livers ; which the Giant toterrify Jact told him. “that men’shearts and livers were the choicest ot. hisdiet, for he co monly, us he said, eatthem with pepper and vinegar ; adding,that he did not question but his heartwould mak-e him a dainty bit '’ Thissaid, he locks up poor Jack in ah upperroom*, leaving hunt.ere, while he -..itto fetch another Giant, living iu : es me wood that e might be parta r01 -Pe pleasure winch they would havein the destruction of poor Jack,Now, while he -was gone, dreadfulshrieks and cries affrighted Jack, espe¬cially a voice-which continually cry’d.Do what you can to get a way,Or you ll became the Giant prey,He’s gone to fetch his brother, ho,Will kill, likewise devour you too.This dreadful noise so amazed poor. Jack, that h.e was ready to run distract-12ed, then going to the window, a for off',lie saw the two Giants coming together]Now quoth Jack to himself, my death©r diliverance it at and.There was strong cords in the roomby him of which he takes two, at tiiaend of which he made a noose ; andwhile the Giant was unlocking the irongate, he threw the rope over each oftheir heads, and then drawing the otherend a-cross the beam, where he pulledwith all his main strength until he hadthrotled them ; and then fastening therope to the beam, he turned towards thewindow, where he beheld the twoGia.ts to be black intheir laces: thensIking down by the rope he came closeto th«ir heads, where the hilpless Giantcould not defend themselves ; and draw¬ing out his sword, he slew them both4and delivered himself from their intend¬ed cruelty : then taking the bunch oBkeys, he unlock’d the rooms, whereupon a strick search, he found three fairladies tied by the hair of the their heads,almost starved to death, who told Jackthat their husbands had been slain bythe Giant and that they were keptmany days without food ; in order toforce them to feed upon the flesh oftheir husbands ; which they could notif they were starved to death. Sweetladies (quoth Jack) I have destroyedthis monst«r, and his brutish brother,by which I have obtained your liberties.This said, he presented them with thekeys of the castle, and so proceeded onhis journey for Wales.CHAP. V.How Jack traveled into Flintshire, andwhat happened.JACK having but very litt]e money,thought it prudent to make the bestof his way by travelling as fast as hecould, but losing his road was benightedand could not get a place of entertain¬ment, until he came to a valley, placedbetween two hills, where stood a largehouse in a loansome place, and by rea-14son of his present condition he tookcourage to knock at the gate ; where,to ’ is great surprise, there came f< rt; a,monstrous Giant, having two heads ; yethe did not seem so fiery as the other hadbeen, for he was a Welsh Giant, aridwhat he did was by private and secretmalice, under the false she of friend¬ship for Jack telling his condition, hebid'him welcome, shewing him a roomwith a bed in it, whereupon he mighttake his nights repose : therefore Jackundresses himself, and, as the Giant waswalking away to another apartment.Jack heard him mutter forth these fewwords to himself.Tho’ here you lodge with me this night,You shall not see the morning light.My ciub snail dash, your brains out quite.Say’st thou so (quoth Jack) that islike one of your Welsh 1 neks, yet Ihope to be cunning enough tor you.The getting out of bed. he put a billetin In s stead, and hid himself m a comerof the room. In the dead time, of theISmight, the Welsh Giant came with hisgreat knotty club, and struck severalheavy blows upon the bed where Jackhad laid the billet ; and then returnedto his own chamber supposing he hadbroken all the bones in his skin.In the morning Jack gave him heartythanks for his lodging. The Giant saidto him. How have you listed ? Did younot feel something in the night ? No no¬thing (quoth Jack) but a rat. which gaveme three or tour slaps with her tail.Soon after the Giant arose, and wentto breakfast with a bowl of hasty-pud-ding. containing near four gallons,giving Jack the like quantity ; whobeing loath to let the Giant know hecould not eat with him, got a large-leathern bag, putting it very artfullyunder his loose coat, into which he se¬cretly conveyed his pudding, telling theGiant, he could shew him a trick : thentaking a large knife, he ripped openthe bag, which the Giant supposed itto be his belly, and out came the hasty-: ' IQpudding. At which rhe Welch Giantseeing, cried out, Cuts pint, hur can dothat hurtself: ti.en taking the sharpknife, he ripped up his own belly fromthe bottom to the ton and out droppethis tripes and trollybuds, so that hur telldown for dead ; thus Jack outwittedthe Giant, and preceded forward onhis journey.CHAP. VI.How King Arthur’s son going to seekfortune, met with Jack ; how they tra-velleng together, and of the wonderfulthings he performed.1'7r ING Arthur’s son only desired ofhis father to furnish him with acertain sum of money, that he might goand seek his fortune in the piincipalityof Wales, where a boutifni lady livedwhom he heard was possessed w ith .sevenevil spirits j but the king his father ad¬vised him utterly agamst it, yet he17would not be persuaded from it ? sothat he granted what he requested whichhas one horse loaded with money, andanother for himself to rideon : thus hewent forth with out any attendances.Now, after several days travel, hecame to a market-town in Wales, wherehe beheld a large concourse of peoplegathered together : the king’s son de¬manded the reason of it, and was told,That they had arrested a corpse formany large sums of mony, which thedeceased owned when he died. Theking’s son replied. It is a pity that cre¬ditors should be so cruel ; go bury thedead, said he, and let his creditors cometo my lodging, and .their debts shall bedischarged. Accordingly they came,and in such great numbers, that beforenight he had almost left himself money¬less.Now Jack the Giant-killer being there,and seeing the generosity of the King’sson. he was taken with him, and de¬sired to be his servant; it w as agreedupon, and the next morning they setISorvrard, when riding out at the town’jend, an old woman call’d after himcrying out. He owed me two-pencethese several years ; pray Sir, pay me aswell at the rest. He puts his hand intohis- pocket, and give it her, it being thelast he had left; then the king’s sonturning to Jack, said, I cannot tell how1 shall subject in my intended journeyFor that, quoth Jack, take you nothought nor care, let me alone, I wasrant you, we will not want.Now Jack having a small spell in hispocket which served at noon to givethem a refreshment, which done, theyhad not one penny left between them :the afternoon they spent in travel andfamibar, friendly discourse, till the sunbegan to grow low, at which time, theking’s son said, Jack, since we have nomoney, where can we think to lodgethis night? Jack replied. Master, we’ildo well enough for I have an uncle liveswithin two miles of this place ; he’s ahuge and monstrous Giant, with three19Leads ; he’ll fight five hundred men Inarmour, and make them fly before him.Alas ! q-aoth the kings son, what shallwe do there ? he’ll certainly chop usboth at a mouthful ! nay, we are scarceenough to fill one of his hollow teeth.It is no matter for that, quoth Jack, Imyself will go before, and prepare theway for you ; therefore tarry here, andwait my return.He waits, and Jack rides full speed,when coming to the gate of the castle,he knocked with such a force that hemade all the neighbours hills resound.The Giant, with a voice like thunderroared out. Who’s there j he was an¬swered None but your poor cousinJack. Quoth he, What news ith mypoor cousin Jack. He reph’d, Dearuncle, heavy news got wot. Pritheewhat heavy news c ui come to me ? Iam a Giant, and with three heads ?and besides thou knowest I Can fightfive hundred men in armour, andmake them fiy like chaff before thewind. O ! but quoth Jacr. here sthe kings son coming with a thou-20iund iiicn in armour to kill you, and to"cfostroy all that you have, Oh ! cdufinJack, this is heavy news indeed : I have-a large vault under ground, where 1will immediately hide myself, and thenthou shalt lock,, bolt and bar me in. andkeep the keys till the king s son is gone.Now Jack having secured the Giant,he soon returned and fetched his master,and were both heartily merry with thewine and other danties which were inthe house : so that night they rested invery pleasant lodgings, whilst the pooruncle, the Giant lay trembling in thevault underground.Early in the morning Jack furnihsedhis master with a fresh supply of goldand silver, and then set him three milesforward cn his journey ; concluding hewas then pretty well out of the smell ofthe Giant, and then returned to let hisuncle out of the hole : who asked Jackwhat he should give him in reward, ashis castle was not -demolished—Why,quoth Jack, I desire nothing but the oldCoat and cap, to^ethe. >’'th' neo!d rustysvord and "I'ppers, whic't- are at vourbe<i hea^r. Quorhthe Gta> r, thou shalthave <hem and pray keep theai for mysake, f >r they are things of excellentuse. The cap ,will furnish you withknowledge ? tne s^ord cut in sunderwhatever you strike ; and the shoes areof extraordinary swif-ness j these maybe serviceable :o you, and thereforepray taxe them with all my heart.-—Jack takes them, thanking his uncle, andso following his master.CHAP. VII.How Jack saved his master’s life , andhow he forced the evil spirit to departout ot the lady, &c.JACK having overtaken him master,they soon after arrived at the lady’shouse; who finding the king’s son to bea suitor she appeared a banquet for him22which being ended, she wiped hie mouthwith her handkerchief, saying, Yon mustshew me this to morrow morning, or elselose your head. And with that she putit into her own bosom.The king’s son went to his bed Terysorrowful* but Jack’s cap of fcnewledgeinstructed him how to obtain it. In themiddle of the night she called upon herfamiliar sqirit to carry her to her friendluciter. Jack soon put on his coatof darkness with his shoes of swiftnessand was there as soon as her, by reasonof his coat they could not see him.—When she enter’d the place, she gavethe handkerchief to old lucifer, wh0laid it upon the shelf, from whence Jacktook it, and brought it to his master,and so saved his life.The next day she saluted the king’sson, telling him, he must shew her to¬morrow morning,, the lips that she kissedlast that night, or lose his head Ah !reply d he, If you kiss none but mide.23[ will. Tis neither here nor there saidshe j if you do not death’s your portion.At midnight she went as before, andtvas angry with lucifer for letting thetandkerchief go j but n0w, said she,klss thee.'and he’s to she > thy lips?hich she (,id. Jac-. stanaipg near him ,urh his sv ord of sharpness, cut off theevil s head, and brought it under hisivisible coat to his master, who was ined, and laid it at the end ot the bolsteri the morning when the lady camehe^pull d it out by the horns, andtewed her the devils lips which shess d last.Thus having answer’d her twice, theLchantmen broke, and the evil spiritt her at which time she appeared in1 her beauty, a delightful and virtuousmature They were married the newDrmng m great pomp and solemnityd soon after they returned with aimerous company to the court of Kin*thur where they were received■u the greatest joy, and loud acda->uons by the whole court, Jack of24his many and great exploits he haddone for the good of his country, wasmade one of the knights of the roundtable.Thus we have finished the first partof this history, which now leads us tothe second part, wherein you have amore full account of the many valiantand wpnderful exploits which wasdone by the bold adventures of this’ great and valiant HERO, “ Jack theGiant Killer*”The end of the FIRST TART.