THEOFROB ROY M‘GREGOR,THEHIGHLAND CHIEFTAIN.FALKIRK :Printed and Sold by T. Johnston.THELIFE OFRob Roy McGreg“or.Robert M‘Gregor, or Rob Roy, wassecond son of Donald M‘Gregor, of thefamily of Glengyle, a lieutenant colonelin the king’s service, by a daughter ofCampbell of Glenlyon. Our hero wasdenominated Roy, a Celtic or Gaelicphrase, signifying his ruddy complex¬ion and colour of hair.Rob Roy’s family was very respect¬able. His father was the friend andally of Regent Murray, and brought tohis assistance800 M'Gregors, in an ex¬pedition to quell an insurrection of theM‘Phersons in the north ; for which ser¬vice Murray granted him a lease of afarm, which still remains in the possess-sion of the family.The education which Rob Roy te-%4ceived was sufficient for the sphere oflife he was destined to occupy. In hisearly years, it would have required veryuncomon penetration to discover thoseindications of sagacity and prudencewhich he after wards exhibited. In youthhe evinced strong natural parts and soonexcelled his compeers in the rude ac¬complishments of the age. He was ac¬tive, bold, and possessed of great bodi¬ly powers; he has been known to siezea deer by the horns, and hold him fast.In the use of the broad sword, few couldequal him. But although his frame wasso singular robust, and his dispositiondaring and result, yet his mannerswere polite his address insinuated, hisfaculties acute, his conclusions promptand his resolution determined.In his youth he studied the ancienthistory and recited the impressive poe¬try, of his country ; and these wereeminently calculated to inspire senti¬ments that cherished a warlike and en¬terprising spirit- Rob in his bo} hoodielighted in the reveries of a romanticj magination contemplating the sublimegrandeur at bis native wilds.—“dherocky mountain, whose summits wereoften hid in the clouds that floatedm ound them ; the dark valley encircled5by woody eminences ; the bold pre-montory, opposed to the foaming oceanand sometimes adorned by the castle ofa chieftain : the still bosom of the lakethat reflected the surrounding land¬scape ; the impetuous mountain cata¬ract, and the dreary silence of the ca¬vern,” were objects that influenced hisyouthful feelings, disposed his mind tothe cultivation of generous and manlysentiments. These impressions werenever after eradicted. They continuedto bias his temper, and to give it a castofremantic chivelry, which he exem¬plified in many ot his future actions.Rob Roy being now determined tofollow the quite avocations of a rnrallife, rented a tract of grazing land atBalqnhidder, and for several years, pur¬sued a quite and inoffensive course. Buthis cattle were'often stolen, along withthose of his neighbours, by hordes ofbanditti from the northern shires, whowasted the country. In order to pro¬tect himself from these marauders, hewas constrained to maintain a selectparty of men ; aud to this cause maypartly be attributed the warlike habitswhich he afterwards acquired.A considerable number of Maeras,from the western part of Ross, having6committed an outrage on the propertyof a neighbour, and carried off fifteenhead of cattle. An express was sent toRob informing him of the circumstance.Being the first call of the kind he hadreceived since he became the protectorof the vicinity, he instantly summoneda dozen of his men, and followed theplunderers. Two days and a night lietravelled, without obtaining any otherinformation as to their tract, than attimes seeing the impression of the cat¬tle’s feet on the ground. The secondnightbeingfatigued, the party lay downin the glen, nearthe march of Badenoch.They had not rested long, when a firewas discovered at alittle distance. Theyinstantly set forward to reconnoitre,when they found it was a band of jollytinkers, carousing near their tent. Theirmirth, however was soon interruptedwhen they beheld Rob Roy and his par¬ty. The tinkers informed him they hadseen the Macras, who were at but a lit¬tle distance ; and two of the tinkersagreed to conduct the party to the spot.The freebooters had halted, for thesecurity of their spoil, in a narrow partof the glen, when the M‘Gregors over¬took them, as they were setting out inthe morning. Rob with a loud and ter-7ific voice, whicb resounded among theiraggy acclivities, charged them to stop,)ut as they disregarded the order, henished upon them with such fury, thatdx of their number lay prostrate on theground. The rest made a stout resist-lance, but were soon overcome ; two be¬ing killed, and five wounded, they giveup the contest. Four of Roy’s lads were^severely wounded, and himself receiveda cut on the left arm from the captain of! the banditti. The booty thus recover-;ed, was driven back and restored to therightful owner. Rob received greatpraise for this exploit, and many offer-i ed to contribute theirdonation of‘blackmail.’ This circumstance no doubt,tended to arouse the latent activity andcourage of his mind.The executive government not onlysanctioned but enforced the exaction of‘ black mail :* and all constables were*eommanded to see ‘ this order put intoexecution as they shall answer to the con-trair. Rob Roy’s exaction of this taxwas not therefore an unauthorised rob¬bery, but sanctioned by custom and lo¬cal institution. For sometime toohe wasemployed in assisting the officers of theneigbouring districts, in collecting im¬posts for maintaining the Black Watch,8a corps of militia, raised to protect thelives and property of the people frommarauding plunderers. This corpsfromthe celebrity they acquired afterwardsbecame regular troops, and were theorigin of the gallant 42d regiment longknown by the name of the ‘ HighlandWatch.’Rob Roy’s birth as a gentleman, andhis respectable connexions, when he at¬tained to man hood, procured him ac¬cess to the first families, and addmissioninto the best company in the country.He formed a matrimonial engagementwith a daughter of M'Gregor of Comara woman of an agreeable temper anddomestic habits, active and economicalin the management of her family. Rutshe took no part in the predatory con¬cerns of her husband, except on on'e oc¬casion afterwards mentioned.Rob was not possessed of any patri¬monial property, but became master ofth-e estate of Craigcroston, in the fol¬lowing manner.—‘ When M‘Gregor ofM‘Gregor, was driven from his posses¬sions in Glenorchy, by the Campbells,be bought the lands of Inversnait andCraigcroston, than of small value, tho’of considerable boundaries, extendingfrom the head of Loch Lomond, 12gmilts along its eastern border, andstretched far into the interior of thecountry, and partly around the base ofstupendous Jden-Lomond. On thedeath, of his chief, in 1693, he left his proper¬ty to a natural brother, who was laird ofKilmannan. This person was succeed¬ed by a son, who courted a daughter ofthe laird of Leny ; but Rob Roy, from1 what cause is not known, raised suspi¬cions against him in the mind of theyoung lady who in consequence reject¬ed her lover. He then paid his addressesto a daughter of Colquhoun of Luss,and their marriage day was fixed when( Rob again interfered, and Miss Col-quhoun also refused to fulfil her engag-ment. Enraged at such treatment,’ the young chieftain went to Falkirk,where he married a woman of mean ex¬traction which so displeased his friendsthat they no longer regarded him astheir connexion. By this treatment,the young' man was so disgusted withhis clan, that he gave up his estate toRob Roy, and leaving his country, was: never heard of more.Rob Roy devoted himself to the avo-| cation of a grazier ; and as Highlandf cattle about this time began to be ingreat request in England, Rob made10frequent journies for carrying on thistraffic. When M‘Gregor was fairly set-led, and facitly confirmed, as laird ofCraigcrostan.his friendship became va¬luable, & was solicited by his wealthyneighhours. At this time the politicalvariance between the families of Mon-irose and Argyle had grown into perso¬nal enmity : this induced each of theipto court the favour of Rob Roy, whosepersonal prowess & daring spirit, ren¬dered him a desirable auxiliary, or aformidable enemy.Montrose, to gain the confidence, andsecure thefriendshipofM‘Gregor madea proposal to enter into copartnery withhim in the tread of cattle-dealing, apianin which he readily acquiesced. Mon¬trose accordingly advanced Rob 1000merks (about 6’0l sterling) who was al¬so expected to lay out a similar sum, &the profits were to be divided. Argylealso laboured to form an alliance withRob, hoping that from his resolute bra¬very and local situation, he would bea source of constant annoyance to Mon¬trose. Besides, he might suppose thatRob Roy hau evinced a friendly dispo-.sition by assuming the name of Camp¬bell, that of M‘Gregor being under pre¬scription. But though Rob bad chosen11Igtthis name in compliment to his motherand in compliance with the law, he wasacknowledged in the country and by hisclan, under no other name than that oft M‘Gregor. He therefore spurned theovertures of Argyle with indignation.Rob Roy, in carrying on business withthe Marquis of Montrose, was the ac-!| tive manager. But a M‘Donald, an in-| ferior partner on one occasion was in-i trusted with a large sum of money withwhich he made off. This greatly de¬ranged Rob’s affairs, and he was unableeither to pay Montrose his money or toi support his own credit, Montrose act-Ied with uncommon severity and harsh¬ness he dissolved the copartnery, andinsisted that Rob should transfer his pro¬perty in security of the claims he pre¬ferred. This proposition was firmly re¬jected j nor could the threats of Mon¬trose’s factor alter his purpose. A law¬suit was entered agains^t Rob, and hewas ultimately compelled to give up hislands in mortgage to Montrose, undercondition that they should again avertto himself when he could pay the debt.Rob Roy was extremely indignant atthe ungenerous conduct of Montrose.However his mind was too strong to beweakened by misfortune, he redoubledhis exertions, and was soon able to ten¬der the sum for which his estate washeld. Biit Montrose refused to deliverup his property, pretendingthe amounthad greatly increased, k that it wouldtake a considerable time to make outthe statement. In this equivocal man¬ner the Marquis’ factor endavoured toevade the lawful claims of an enjuredman Just at this time the revolutiontook place, and many of the cheiftainswere arraying their followers to be inreadiness, for acting in favour of thehouse of Stewart. Amvle attachedhimself to the Prince of Orange ; butnot having beer, restored to his proper¬ty, since the attainder and judicial mur¬der of his father, he was hesitating inhis sentiments; and aware that Rob, inthe event of a war, would be a valuableauxiliary, he renewed his overtures tohim and warmly solicitedhis assistance.The suspicious Montrose soon disco¬vered that a correspondence had com¬menced between M‘Gregor k Argyle,and eager for the destruction ol a fa~mily that had rivalled him in greatness,he wrote a letter to Rob Roy, in whichhe promised, that if he would go toEdinburgh, and give such informationas would convict Argyle ol treasonable13practices, lie would both withdraw themortgage upon his property, and givehim a large sum of taoney. Rob Royreceived thisinfamous proposal with thelofty contempt and proud scorn of aI M‘Gregor*, and without deigning to■ * A. chieftain of the M‘Gregors, residing on hisfreehold in Glenorchy, had a son who had gone inthe shooting season, with a party of young asso-( dates to the moors. They met with a young gen-Itleman of the name of Lament from Cowel, whol attendedhy a servant, was going to Fort William.] They all went to a public houje that was in theplace, and took a refreshment together In the; course of which, a trifling dispute arose between,Lament and young M Gregor Dirks were drawnand before friends could interfere, M‘Gregor fell,(mortally wounded. In the confusion, Lamont es¬caped and got securely to the house of M‘Grcgor,i!which happened to be the first habitation that metlihis eye at the dawn of t ire morning. The chieftainijwas up and standing at the door—1 Save my life,’paid the stranger, • for men are in persuit of me toJ ake it away.’ ‘ Whoever you are,’ says M’Gregor| here you are safe.’Laraont was but brought >n, and introducedo the family when a loud demand was made at thedoor, if a stranger had entered the house. ‘ Henas,’ says M‘Gregor, and what is your business!vith him?’—‘ In a scuffle,’ cried the pursuers, 'heas killed your son ; deliver him up, that we mayInstantly revenge the deed.’ M'Gregor’s lady andi is two daughters filled the house with their criesnd lamentations.—‘ Bequite,’ says thechiel, withie tears streaming from his eyes, and let no man. resume to touch the youth—For he has M‘Grc-14.return an answer, forwarded it to Ar-gyle, who soon took occasion to con¬front Montrose, with a charge of male-violence. But Rob suffered severely forthis noble act, for Montrose, in revengeprocured and adjudecaiuon of his estateand it was evicted for a sum very inade¬quate to its value.During this transaction, Rob Roy wasin England on business, and the expul¬sion of his family was conducted bygor’s word and honofir for his safety ; and as Godlives he shall be safe and secure whilst in my houseIn a little the chieftain accompanied Lament,with twelve men under arms, to Inver ary, andlanded him in safety on the other side of Lochfinethen took him by the hand, and' thus addressedhim:—Lamoct now you are safe,—-no longercan I, or will I protect you ;—keep out of the wayof my clan.—May God forgive and bless you.’This happened some time before the aot of pro¬scription against the clan Gregor in 1633, when tothe discredit of justice, a weak government sacri¬ficed a whole people for the enormities of a fewM‘Gregor lost his property, and was hunted forhis life, in consequence of this iniquitous act. Hetook shelter in the house of this very I amont.-Noted for his urbanity, and his deep contrition forthe misfortune of his younger years ; and who byevery act of kindness to his venerable guest, andsome branches of his family, revered the provi-;dence which put it in his powei to repay to thefamily of his benefactor, in some measure the losshe had occasioned them in the death of a son.15Graham of Killearn, under circum¬stances of the utmost indignity and bar¬barity. When M’Gregor returned, andbeheld his destitute family, his soul wasfilled with rage, and he determined totake revenge on the authors of his mis¬fortunes. His first act of hostility a-gainst Montrose was at a term when heknew the tenantry of that noblemanwere topay theirrents. He and his mencalled upon them, and obliged them togive him the money, for which, how¬ever he granted them acknowledge¬ments, ‘that it was received on accountof Montrose.’[ In this compulsitory manner he leviedthe rents from the tenants for severalyears ; and Montrose,, conscious, per-thaps, that he had taken undue advan-itageof Kob Roy, seemed to overlook[the matter till a subsequent occasion,fwhen the factorwas collecting his rentsat Cfiapellaroch in Stirlingshire. RobiRoy had given out some days before by!proclamation at the church door that hehad gone to Ireland ; and the factorconsequently concluded that he woulddneet with no interruption in his duty.Towards evening, however, Rob RoyPlaced his men in a wood in the neigh¬bourhood, and went himself, with his16piper playing before him, to the inn ofChapellaroch where Killearn was atten¬ded by several gentlemen of the vicini¬ty. Alarmed at the sound of the pipes,they started up to discover from whence .jit proceeded; an Killearn, in greatconsternation, beheld Rob Roy ap¬proaching the door.He had finished his collection but thebags were hastily thrown for conceal¬ment on a shelf. Rob Roy entered withthS usual silutation and the factor atfirst had no suspicion of his final pur¬pose, as he laid down his sword, andpartook of the entertainment ; afterwhich he desired his piper to strike upa tune. This was a signal to his men, Iwho in a few minutes surrounded thehouse and six of them entered the room 1with drawn swords, Rob Rov, laying 1hold of his sword, as if about to goaway, asked the factor, ‘ How he hadcome on with his collection ?’ ‘ / havenot nothing,’ said Kdlearn, ‘ I havenot yet begun to collect.’ ‘ No, no,chamberlain,’replied Rob, ‘your false¬hood will not do with me, I must countfairly with you by the book.’ Resist-tance being useless, the book was exhi¬bited, and according to it the money17was given up, for which Rob Roy gran¬ted a receipt.But from the infamous treatment hisfamily had received from Killearn,RobRoy was resolved to punish him, andhad him immdiatly conveyed to anisland near the east end of Lcch Ket-turine, now rendered famous as the sup¬posed residence of fair Ellen, the Ladyof the Lake,7n this island Killearn was confinedfor a considerable time : and, when setat liberty, received from Robaprudentadmonition as to his future conduct.Rob Roy was always the friend andprotector of the weak and oppressed.Thedisorders which prevailed in thena-tion, during the reign of Charles II. be¬came still more dreadful on the acces¬sion of his brother James, whose bigo¬try permitted the most odious crimes,and authorised such cruelty as the mindshudders to contemplate. At thesescenes of horror Roh had often beenpresent whose soul burned with indig¬nation at their wickedness, regrettingthat be was not vigorous enough torrcrush the bands of inhuman wretches,who executed the bloody demands ofjthe king. After he had been expelledfrom his estate lie went to Carlisle, to re-18cover a sum of money due to him. Re¬turning by Moffat, he fell in with a par¬ty of soldiers hanging four peasants,whom they called fanatics. A youngwoman who was also bound to the sametree bewailng the fate of her father &brother, two of those who suffered. Thedeadly work being completed, four ofthe soldiers seized the young woman,tied her hands and feet, and were car¬rying her towards the river to drownher, regardless of her tears and entrea¬ties to save her. Our hero’s heart be¬ing wrung with sympathy, and shockedat such cruelty, ordered the prepetra-tors to stop, and demanded ‘ why theytreated a helpless female with such bar¬barity ?’ The officer desired him to be¬gone, otherwise he would experiencethe same-treatment, for daring to inter¬rupt the king’s instructions.’ The mis¬creants wTere just about to toss the girlin the stream over a precipice. Robbecame frantic with rage, sprung uponthe soldiers, and in an instant eight ofjvhem were struggling in the pool.The officer ami the remaining ten men!were confounded and stood motionlessjIn this pause Rob cut the cords thatbound the girl ; and killed the officer at),one stroke. The soldiers attacked him,19but he killed two of them, and the restfled to the town, leaving hun master ofthe field, to the unspeakable joy of theyoung woman, and the great delight ofthe peasantry who stood around.Our hero now devoted himself to mi¬litary pursuits. He selected a body ofmen*no less resolute than himself, thesebold M'Gregors entered into a band ofunion which no hardship could tear a.I sunder, no contention overcome ; whilethe masterly discipline established byRob, rendered them the terror of sur¬rounding counties. They mutually re-i cited the wrongs of their clan, and re-rnewed the determination of taking a(jproper revenge. While the warlike mu-i sic of the pipes animated their spirits,and inspired them with courage almostirresistable.The government now watched thermotions of the Highland chiefs with aealous eye, and thus they were obligedto communicate' their sentiments re¬spected the exiled house of Stewart in:he most secret and clandestine mannerTheir opinion w?ere unanimous, and amnd of faith and mutual support wasigned. By the negligence of a chief-ajn to whom the bond was intrusted, itell into the hands of Captain WilliamwCampbell of Glenlyon. When it wasknown that a man ofsuch inhuman feel- >ings held this bond, those who signed itwere serious alarmed and various planswere suggested for recovering it. RobRoy, with the clans, had also affixed hisname ; but on his own account he re¬garded neither the king nor his govern¬ment. He was, however, urged by se¬veral chiefs to exert himself, and, ifpossible, to recover the bond. To ac¬complish this, he went to Fort Williamin disguise; and getting access to Capt.Campbell, who was his near relation, hediscovered that he had put the bond in¬to the possession of the governor, whowas determined to forward it to the Pri¬vy Couneel. Rob learned the day onwhich it was to be sent off, took leaveand went home. The dispatch was madeup by Governor HY\\ and sent from tortWilliam, escorted by an ensign’s com¬pany. On the third day’s march, Roband fifty of his men met the party inGlendochart, and demanded their dis¬patches. The officer refused ; but wastold by Rob, that he must either givetheir lives and the dispatches togetheror the dispatches alone. The dispatche ;were given up; and Rob having takerout the bond he wanted, begged the of i'21ficer would excuse the delay he had oc-cassioned, and wished him a j^ood jour¬ney. By this bold exploit many chiefssaved their heads, and forfeiture oftheir estates.The spirit of clanship, the dignity as¬sumed by great chieftains, and the pro¬found submission of their vassals, oftenproduced the most iniquitious actions.Against such acts of violence, thoughoverlooked by the government BobRoy M‘Gregor manfully and openlydrew his 5word.On the estate of Perth a clansman ofRob Roy’s, occupied a farm on lease ;but the factor took occasion to breakitand the tenant was ordered to remove.Rob hearing the story, went to Drum¬mond Castle. On his arrival the firstperson he met was Blairdrummond thefactor, wliom he knocked down, withuotuttering a word, and walked on to thegate. Perth, who saw tins from a win¬dow, came out and gave him a cordial'welcome—“ Perth I want no show of'hospitality ; l insist only to get back the .tack of which my namesake has beenIdeprived, otherwise i will let loose myilegions on your property,” Perth was‘ obliged to comply. The lease was re¬stored, and Rob sat down and break-asted with the ear!.22Graham of Killearn was faetor on thefestate of Montrose, and second Cousin ito that nobleman. Being in the con-aslant practice of distressing those ten-iants who were in arrear, he was despis¬ed in the country. He had once sequestrated the goods and cattle of apoor widow for arrears of rent; whenRob heard of the cruelty, he went tcher, and gave her the 300 merks sheowed, at sametime desired her, wherfshe paid it, to got a receipt. On the!,1legal day, the officers appeared at thewidows house to take away the effects ,.She paid ttoeir demand ; but Roy methem, made them surrender the mone’'they had extorted; gave them a goo< ,rdrubbing, and advice never again t*act in the same manner.Sometimes the rich procured a morngage bond upon the property of hi}needy neighbour; and this was generally turned into an authority to seiztheir lands by force. Glengyle was urder bond ofthis^ind, when Rob Roy: ■4nephew succeeded to it. Rob, knowinwhat advantage would be taken of thcontract, gave his nephew the monefor the purpose of retrieving the bom snThe period of redemption had onlyflew months to run ; and under pretemS3; that the bond could not be found, themoney was refused. Rob Roy at thattime having been otherwise engaged,the matter lay over, and the bond was1 allowed to expire, when young M‘Gre-gor was ordered to remove himself, his( dependants, and cattle in eight days,Rob Roy could not suffer such treat¬ment •, and, assembling his gillies, tookthe chieftain prisoner, who, knowingRob’s disposition, agreed to give up thebond when he got home. Rob, putting1 no confidence in his promise, compeledhim to send for it, andgave it up to him| presently.The excursions of our hero inducedI Montrose to apply to the privy councilI fo r protection ; and obtained an act(which was expressed thus:—‘to re¬press scorners, robbers and broken mento raise hue and cry after them to reco¬ver the goods stolen, and to seize theirpersons.’* This decree, though despised by Rob,r j made him more watchful of his foes.:But Montrose, under authority of theact of council, called out a number ofiis people, headed by a confidential1 Grraham, and accompanied by some mi-itary, sent them tolay hold of Rob RoyBe chanced to be absent when the24,Grahams assailed his house during thcfnight. Having learned that Rob anthis men were at a public house in Strathfillan, he in the house, and they in arjadjoining barn. The Grahams immeldiately broke open the door. Rob wainstantly accoutred to meet them, antlevelled them man by man as they appreached, until his own lads, roused b;,the noise, attacKed the Grahams in threar with such determination, that the;retreated, leaving behind them severaof their party sorely wounded ; buRob, having refreshed his men with ;glass of whisky, ascended the hill tcwards the head of Loch Lomond.