THEf f-STORY TELLER.y~¥THE MURDER DISCOVERED,THE WIDOW AND HER SON.ENCOUNTER WITH A LION.THE SOLDIER’S WIFE.THE CONFLICT BETWEEN C RANT ANDM‘ PHERSON, AT HELL BRIDGE. ADANGEROUS PASS IN THE HIGH¬LANDS OF SCOTLAND.*>'•GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.t—EIHT\Y HJ /. iit; sa/i*.v rnaT ,.i'i. THE MURDER DISCOVERED.i I accompanied the gentleman into the gardenul was shown the place where her own fatherinid his murdered daughter. The grass was red: ith blood, and the marks of feet were quite risibleif the ground, which happened to bo soft and wet,11 endeavouring to trace the footsteps, wo observedi,ih they led over some ground which had beenilewly dug with the spado, and that they had made|| remarkably distinct impression on the loose soil.n examining that impression we saw that thereaas something particular in the form of the shoe.was uncommonly broad and large, and roimd-h»ed, and, from its shape, gave reason to suspectNiat its wearer was what is called flat-soled. It hadalso been lately pieced at the heel and toe, andirmed with broad-headed tacks, the points of which•rero distinctly marked. This was an importantjiiscovery, and Mr Johnson, who was accustomed:;) use his pencil, set himself, with the assistance ofne surgeon, to take a correct measurement and(rawing of it on paper. In the meantime, Mr Thom-|>n and I continued the search, and having traced(he footsteps to the garden wall, the good minister,(’ho happened to be Wore me, uttered an exclama¬tion of horror, and directed my attention to a stonen the top of the wall which was stained with blood.)n looking more minutely, we saw the marks of'/body fingers on the stone, and concluded that themurderer had made his retreat out of the garden at'his place. A plowed field on the other side of thegall favoured our further search, and we tracked•he villian to a small piece of water where lie had•robably washed his hands, and through which hoappeared to have waded, as the prints of feet were4seen on tlie opposite bank. I threw off my sband stockings, and followed the course we suppothe murderer had taken as accurately as I codhut as the ground on the other side was covewith wood, I could trace him no farther. Onreturn, I observed somefliing bright at the hot!of the water, which I took up, and found to blarged clasped knife, with the letters It. S. scratcrudely on the handle. 1 shuddered to thinkwith this very instrument the fatal deed was pnbly committed, and we were confirmed in thisnion by discovering marks of blood on the banwhich the water had not wholly washed awayWhen the ceremony of interment was over,before any person began to retire, Mr ThomiD1standing on a grave-stone, informed the compsnthat it was the wish of the sheriff that no pcshould be permitted to leave the church-yard tillexamination had taken place, which might servjthrow some light on this dark and horrid biisid“ Huzza!” cried Robert Stewart; “ that’s right!guard the yett, and let none out.” “ You are s:that trouble, young man,” replied Mr Thomson,there are constables already posted at the gate,none need attempt to escape.” “ I must request e’lperson,” continued he, “to sit down on the grasthe vacant space at the north side of the churchranged as nearly in rows as possible. Thatmay not think this request unnecessary, I wilplain to you the reason of it. The murderer,ever he was, left the impression of his shoe onnew dug ground near the spot where the crimecommitted. An accurate drawing of the formdimensions of that impression has been taken Irifriend Mr Johnson, and is now in my hand,intention is to examine the feet of all whopresent and compare their slices with this dratin hopes that this measure may tend to detectJilty person.” My eyes were steadily fixed on>bert Stewart during this speech, and I observed3 face turn red and pale by turns. The marks ofJilt were visible, I thought, on his countenance ;t when Mr Thomson ceased speaking, he had re-rered himself sufficiently to exclaim, “What good,l that do ? D’ye think the man that killed the lass.d hae the face to come here? or, if he was here,w could you find him out by the sted o’ his foot ?liuuder folk may ha’e shoou o’ the same size, andmade by ae shoemaker, they may be a’ the same:tpc too. It may mak innocent folk suspected,d will do mair ill than good ; sae for my part Inna consent till’t. Come, let us be off lads.” As, spake, he pulled some of his companions by then, and turned towards the gate, with the intentioni making his escape. “ The first man that leaves? church-yard before he is examined,” cried Mrihnson from among the crowd, “ will be taken up« a suspected person, and committed to jail. 1ve the authority of the sheriff for saying so.” Airmur of approbation succeeded his speech, and. owavt turned back intimidated, and seated him-f on a grave-stone at a little distance, folding hi>. ms across his breast, and kicking his heels agaiaste of the feet of the stone, in order to appear veryucli at liis ease. As soon as silence was obtained,r Thomson, in a few simple words, refuted Stewart’s: jectious, and at the same time held up to public viewr Johnson’s drawing of the footstep, to convince^ e people that there w'as something so remarkablyculiar in its shape, there could be little doubt ofding out the person to whom it belonged, by theoans proposed. Every one now seemed eager tove his shoes 'examined, and hastened to seat him-f on the grass. Two shoemakers were employedtake the measurement, and Mr Johnson accom-nied them with the drawing in his hand. Stewart6had.placcd bimaeU' in .the middle of the crowd, araI saw iiim make one or to o unsuccessful attemp[to shift ids s£sa.t, so as :to escape examination. W}iJat last .his turn came, his colour suddenly chang«jjto a deadly .pale, mid with a horrid groan, liesenseless on the ground. He was restored by tapplication of some water, which was quickly prcured, and looking wildly round him, he esclaime“You cannot say that I did it! it was dark—wfsaw me-?” “ God Almighty saw you, unhappy you:man!” said Mr Johnson, in a tone which thrillIjthrough my heart; for he had now taken the dime#sions of Stewart’s shoe, and found it correspond hevery particular to the copy lie had drawn. Tilmurderer, for I had now no doubt that this was 1 |having recovered his strength, started up on hisfe Iand drawing a sharp-pointed knife from his pock Jthreatened to stab to the heart the man that h }hands on him. He then made a desperate gprii;and before any person had sufficient presence |mind to prevent him, reached the church-yard wijwhich he cleared without difficulty, but losingbalance when he reached the other side, he stumbliforward, and fell on the point of his knife. Herow overtaken mid secured, and as he was los |much blood, he was conveyed to the manse, wh jjhappened to be the nearest house ; the surgeon, vhwas present, attended him for the purpose of drifing his wound. The knife had entered the bowi|and made a dangerous wound, which the surg<immediately pronounced likely to prove la iThe unfortunate wretch overheard the opinionthe surgeon, and cried out with a savage joy, whfilled every person present with horror, “ Thendisappoint the law yet. If I could na makescape in ae way, I’ll do it in another. Sleep, sl< jthey say, it’s a sleep.” “ Alas! young man,”-*}Mr Thomson, shuddering as he spake, “in .til?!£ep there are awful dreams to the wicked—dreams) I say? they are horrible realities. God grantbat I may not finds—” “It’s a lie!” interrupted3 with a dreadful oath, “I’ll no believe it—sae ye;edna preach to me.” Mr Thomson, finding hemid do no good by continuing the conversation,ft the room; and it was not long after this he1 arned that the wretched murderer died, still har¬med and impenitent.THE WIDOW AND HER SON.> UIUXO my residence in the country, I used fre-lently to attend at the old village church. Its1 ladowy aisles, its mouldering monuments, its dark' ken paunelling, all reverend with the gloom of'parted years, seemed to fit it for the haunt of1 lemn meditation. A Sunday, too, in the country“ so holy in its repose—such a pensive quiet reigns* er the face of nature, that every restless passion1 charmed down, and we feel all the natural reli-•jon of the soul gently springing up within us:'j j “ Sweet day, so pure, so calm, so bright.The bridle of the earth and sky.’’■{do not pretend to be what is called a devout man;at there are feelings that visit me in a countrytlurch, and the beautiful serenity of nature, which^experience no where else ; and if not a more re¬gions, I think I am a better man on Sunday, thanl any other day of the seven.1 But in this church I felt myself continually thrown" uk upon the world, by the frigidity and pomp ofP poor worms around me. The only being that- ftpied thoroughly to feel the humble and prostrate|8piety of a true cTiristian, was a poor decrepitwoman, bending under the weight of years andfirmities. She bore the traces of something be?than abject poverty. The lingerings of decent piwere still visible in her appearance. Her drthough humble in the extreme, was scrupuloiclean. Some trivial respect, too, had been awarher; for she did not take her seat among the villipoor, but sat alone on the steps of the altar,seemed to have survived all love, all friendship,)!society, and to have nothing left but the hope aheaven. When I saw her feebly rising and be: Iing her aged form in prayer—habitually connher prayer-book, which her palsied hand and fare-yes would scarce permit her to read, but whichevidently knew by heart—I felt persuaded thatfaltering voice of that poor woman arose to heafar before the responses of the clerk, the swell of «organ, or the chaunting of the choir.I am fond of loitering about country clmrcland this was so delightfully situated, that it frequi]y attracted me. It stood on a knoll, round wla small stream made a beautiful bend, and twound its way through a long reach of soft mea( nscenery. The church was surrounded by yew trwhich seemed almost coeval with itself. Itsgothic spire shot up lightly from among them, vrooks and crows generally wheeling about it.was seated there one still sunny morning, watchtwo labourers who were digging a grave. Theychosen one of the most remote and neglected <>ners of the church-vard ; where from the numbenameless graves around, it would appear thatindigent poor and friendless were huddled intoearth. 1 was told that the new-made grave ’for the only son of a poor widow. While Imeditating on the distinctions of worldly raWhich extend thus down into the very dust, thexr rtil[>1F tho bell announced the approach of the funeral.:'hej were the obsequies of poverty, with whichride had nothing to do. A coffin of the plainestlaterials, without pall or covering, was borne by1 >me of the villagers. The sexton walked before,ith an air of cold indifference. There were noiock mourners in tho trappings of affected woe;‘ at there was one real mourner, who feebly totterediter the corpse. It was the aged mother of tho5 ?ceased—the poor old woman whom I had seen! 'ated on the steps of the altar. She was supported\Y a humble friend, who was endeavouring to com-wrt her. A few of the neighbouring poor had joinedue train, and some of the children of the villageere running hand in hand, now shouting with un¬linking mirth, and now pausing to gaze, with chil-sh curiosity, on the grief of tho mourner.As the funeral train approached the grave, thorson issued from the church porch, arrayed in tho•irplice, with prayer book in hand, and attended bylie clerk. The service, however, was a mere act ofparity. The deceased had been destitute, and th*jirviver pennyless. It was shuffled through, there-re, in form, but coldly and unfeelingly. The welld priest moved but a few steps from the church-por ; his voice could scarcely be heard at the grave,tod never did I hear tho funeral service, that sub-ic and touching ceremony, turned into such agid mummery of words.I I approached the grave. The coffin was placedi the ground. On it were inscribed the name and;ffG of tho deceased—“ George Somers, aged 26tears.” The poor mother had been assisted to kneel4>wn at the head of it. Her withered hands were'iasped, as if in prayer; but I could perceive by a•eble rocking of the body, and a convulsive motionq the lips, that she was gazing on the last relics ofpr son, with the yearnings of a mother’s heart.10The service being ended, preparations were mito deposit the coffin in the earth. There was t!bustling noise which breaks so harshly on the ftings of grief and affection ; directions given incold tones of business ; the striking of spades isand and gravel; which at the grave of thoselove, is, of all sounds the most withering. 1bustle around seemed to awaken the mother froiwretched reverie. She raised her glazed eyes, ilooked about with a faint wildness. As the Vapproached with cords to lower the coffin intograve, she rung her hands, and broke into an ag>Of grief. The poor woman who attended her ther by the arm, endeavouring to raise her fromearth, and to whisper something like consolatioi“ Nay, now—nay, now—don’t take it so sorelyheart.” She could only shako her head and wrher hands, as one not to be comforted.As they lowered the body into the earth,creaking of the cords seemed to agonize her;when on some accidental obstruction there wajjustling of the coffin, all the tenderness of the ither burst forth ; as if any harm could come to 1who was far beyond the reach of worldly sufferinI could see no more—my heart swelled intothroat—my eyes filled with tears —1 felt as if I vacting a barbarous part, in standing by and gaz jidly on this scene of maternal anguish. I wanecd to another part of the church-yard, where I •mained until the funeral train had dispersed.When I saw the mother slowly and painftquitting the grave, leaving behind her the remrof all that was dear to her on earth, and returnto silence and destitution, my heart ached for 1What, thought I, are the distresses of the rich? thave friends to soothe—pleasures to beguile—a w<to divert and dissipate their griefs. What aresorrow’s of the young ? their growing imnds s jf11dclose above tbe wound—their elastic spirits soonrise beueath the pressure—their green and ductile: affections soon twine round new objects. But thei sorrows of the poor, who have no outward appliancesto soothe—the sorrows of the aged, with whom lifeat best is but a wintry day, and who can look for no: after-growth of joy—the sorrows of the widow, aged,i solitary, destitute, mourning over an only son, the: last solace of her years; these arc indeed sorrows.which make us feel the impotency of consolation.: It was sometime before I left the church-yard.iOn my way homeward I met with the woman who•had acted as comforter ; she was just returned from'Accompanying the mother to her lonely habitation,and I drew from her some particulars connectedwith the affecting scene I had witnessed.J The parents of the deceased had resided in thovillage from childhood. They had inhabited one oftjthe neatest cottages, and by various rural occupa-ulions, and the assistance of a small garden, had sup¬ported themselves creditably and comfortably, andied a happy and blameless life. They had one son,'who had grown up to be the staff and pride of tfieirage.—“Oh, Sir!” said the good woman, /‘he wasijsuch a likely lad, so sweet-tempered, so kind to everypne around him, so dutiful to his parents! It didhue’s heart good to see him on a Sunday, dressedput in his best, so tall, so straight, so cheery, sup¬porting his old mother to church—for she was al¬ways fonder of leaning on George’s arm, than onier goodman’s; and poor soul she might well boproud of him, for a finer lad there was not in all the; ,’ountry round.”i Unfortunately, the son was tempted, during.a! yearif scarcity and agricultural hardship, to enter intolie service of one of the small craft that plied on aleighbouring river. He had pot been long in thisemploy, when he was entrapped by a press-ga'ng, andcarried off to sea. His parents received tidings'his seizure ; but beyond that they could learn i:thing. It was the loss of their main prop. Tfather, who was already infirm, grew heartless amelancholy, and sunk into his grave. The wideleft lonely in her age and feebleness, could no longsupport herself, and came upon the parish. St1there was a kind feeling towards her throughout tvillage, and a certain respect, as being one of toldest inhabitants. As no one applied for the c*tage in which she had passed so many happy dajshe was permitted to remain in it, where she livsolitary and almost helpless. The few wants of iture were chiefly supplied from the scanty prodvtions of her little garden, which the neighborwould now and then cultivate for her. It was la few days before the time at which these circurstances were told me, that she was gathering so)vegetables for her repast, when she heard the otage door which faced the garden suddenly opea stranger came out, and seemed to he lookieagerly and wildly around. He was dressed Jseaman’s clothes, was emaciated and ghastly paand bore the air of one broken by sickness and barships. He saw her and hastened towards her; bhis steps were faint and faultering ; he sunk on 11knees before her, and sobbed like a child. Tpoor woman gazed upon him with a vacant awandering eye. “ Oh my dear, dear mother! doi 1you know your son ? your poor boy George! ” It w ithe wreck of her once noble lad, who, shattered iwounds, by sickness, and by foreign imprisonmeihad at length dragged his wasted limbs homewaito repose among the scenes of his childhood.I will not attempt to detail the particulars of sua meeting, where j oy and sorrow were so complet *blended ; still he was alive ; he was come home ; *might yet live to comfort and cherish her old ag *13Nature, however, was exhausted in him ; and if anytiring had been wanting to finish the work of fate,the desolation of his native cottage had been sufti-cient. He stretched himself on the pallet on whichhis widowed mother had passed many a sleeplessnight, and he never rose from it again.The villagers, when they heard that GeorgeSomers had returned, crowded to see him, offeringevery comfort and assistance that their humblemeans afforded, lie was too weak, however, totalk; he could only look his thanks. His motherwas his constant attendant; and he seemed unwilling to be helped by any other hand.There is something in sickness, that breaks downthe pride of manhood, that softens the heart, andi brings it back to the feelings of infancy. Who that; has languished, even in advanced life, in sickness: and despondency ; who that has pined on a weary< bed, in the neglect and loneliness of a foreign land,i but has thought on the mother “ tkat looked on hischildhood,” that smoothed his pillow, and adminis¬tered to his helplessness ? Oh! there is an endur¬ing tenderness in the love of a mother to a son, thatt transcends all other affections of the heart. It isi neither chilled by selfishness, nor daunted by dan-i ger, nor weakened by worthlessness, nor stifled byI ingratitude. She will sacrifice every comfort to his: convenience ; she will surrender every pleasure tohis enjoyment; she will glory in his fame, and exult' in his prosperity: and if adversity overtake him, he’ will be the dearer to her by misfortune : and if dis-c grace settle upon his name, she will still love andr cherish him ; and if the world beside cast him off,she will be all the world to him.Poor George Somers had known well what it was: to be in sickness, and none to soothe—lonely, and ini prison, and none to visit him. Ho could not endure: his mother from his sight; if she moved away, his14!;1eyo would follow Her. She would sit for hourshis bed, hatching him as lie slept. Sometimes |would start from a feverish dream, and look aiixiou.ii:up until he saw her venerable form bending ov’'him, when he would take her hand, lay it on hbosom, and fall asleep with the tranquillity of a chiliIn this way he died.My first impulse on hearing this humble taleaffliction, was to visit the cottage of the mourncjand administer pecuniary assistance; and, if possicomfort. I found, however, on inquiry, that tgood feelings of the villagers had prompted themdo every thing that the case admitted ; and as tpoor know best how to Console each other’s sorrowI did not venture to intrude.The next Sunday I was at the village churc|when, to my surprise, I saw the poor old worn atottering down the aisle to her accustomed seat dthe steps of the altar.She had made an effort to put on something lifimourning for her son ; and nothing could be moitouching than this struggle between pious affectioiand utter poverty : a black ribband or so,—a fade,black handkerchief, and one or two more suehumble attempts to express by outward signs tligrief which passes show. When I looked round othe storied mohunients, the stately hatchments, tlicold marble pomp, with which grandeur mourne:magnificently over departed pride, and turned tthis poor widow, bowed down by age and sorrow, athe altar of her God, and offering up the prayerand praises of a pious, though broken heart, I fc!that this living monument of real grief was wortthem all.I related lier story to some of the wealthy memhers of the congregation, and they were moved by itThev exerted themselves to render her situatiolrriore ConVfortahlO, arid t'o lighten her afflictions, ti*Aik15was, however, but smoothing a few steps to thograve. In the course of a Sunday or two after shewas missed from her usual seat at church, and be¬fore I loft the neighbourhood, I heard with a feelingof satisfaction, that she had quietly breathed herlast, and had gone to rejoin those sho loved, .in thatworld where sorrow is never known, and frieirds arenever parted.ENCOUNTER WITH A LION.The day was exceedingly pleasant, and not a cloudwas to be seen. For a mile or two we travelledalong the banks of the river, which in this partabounded in tall mat-rushes. The dogs seemedmuch to enjoy prowling- about and examining everybushy place, and at last met with some object amongthe rushes, which caused them to set up a mostvehement and determined barking. We exploredthe spot with caution, as we suspected, from the pe¬culiar tone of tho bark, that it was what it provedto bo, lions. Having encouraged the dogs to drivethem out, a task which they performed with greatwillingness, we had a full view of an enormous blackmained lion and lioness. The latter was seen onlyfor a minute, as she made her escape up the river,under concealment of the rushes but the lion camesteadily forward, and stood still to look at us. Atthis moment we felt our situation not free from dan¬ger, fts the animal seemed preparing to spring uponus, and wo were standing on the bank, at the dis¬tance of only a few yards from him, most of us keingon foot and unarmed, without any visible possibilityof escaping. I bad given up my horse to the hunters,lt>and was on toot myself; but there was no time fowlfear, and it was useless to attempt avoiding himiriI stood well on my guard, holding my pistols in myhand, with my linger on the trigger, and those who dhad muskets, kept themselves prepared in the same;manner. But at this instant the dogs boldly flewin between us and the lion, and surrounding him,kept him at bay by their violent and resolute bark¬ing. The courage of these faithful animals was mostfjadmirable ; they advanced up to the side of the hugej|beast, and stood making the greatest clamour in histjface, without the least appearance of fear. Thorllion, conscious of his strength, remained unmoved ^at their noisy attempts, and kept his head towards aus. At one moment, the dogs, perceiving his eyes athus engaged, had advanced close to his feet, and iseemed as if they would actually seize hold of him; :but they paid dearly for their imprudence, for, with-; Iout discomposing the majestic and steady attitude;in which he stood fixed, he merely moved his paw,and at the next instant I beheld two lying dead. IIn doing this he made so little exertion, that it was |scarcely perceptible by what means they had been ilkilled. Of the time which we gained by the inter- iference of the dogs, not a moment was lost; we Itired upon him ; one of the balls went through his (side just between the short ribs, and the blood im- imediately began to flow; but the animal still re- ;mained standing in the same position. We had no :doubt that he would spring upon us ; every gun was Piinstantly re-loaded ; but happily we were mistaken, liand were not sorry to see him move quietly away, i'though I had hoped in a few minutes to have been ;enabled to take hold of his paw without danger.17THE SOLDIER’S WIFE.It is now many years since the first battalion of the17th Regiment of Foot, under orders to embark forIndia,—that far distant land, where so many of ourbrave countrymen have fallen victims to the climateand where so few have slept in what soldiers call“ the bed of glory,”—were assembled in the barrackyard of Chatham, to be inspected previously to theirpassing on board the transports, which lay mooredin the Downs.It was scarcely day-break, when the merry drumand fife were heard over all parts of the town, andthe soldiers were seen sallying forth from theirquarters, to join the ranks, with their bright fire¬locks on their shoulders, and the knapsacks andcanteens fastened to their backs by belts as whiteas snow. Eacli soldier was accompanied by somefriend or acquaintance,—or by some individual, witha dearer title to his regard than either; and therewas a strange and sometimes a whimsical minglingof weeping and laughter among the assembled groups.The second battalion was to remain in England,and the greater portion of the division was present,to bid farewell to their old companions in arms.But among husbands and wives, uncertainty as totheir destiny prevailed—for the lots were yet to bedrawn—the lots that were to decide which of thewomen should accompany the regiment, and whichshould remain behind. Ten of each company wereto be taken, and chance was to be the only arbiter.Without noticing what passed elsewhere, I confinedmy attention to that company which was command¬ed by my friend Captain Loden, a brave and excel-leut officer, who, I am sure, lias no more than my¬self forgotten the scene to which I refer.The women had gathered round the flag-serjeant.18who held the lots in his cap, ten of them marked,"to go," all the others containing the fatalwords "to remain." It was a moment of dreadfuland neyer have I seen the ex/tremfe ofinxtety so powerfully depicted in the countenancesof human beings, as in the countenances of -each ofthe soldiers’ yives who composed that group. Oneadvanced and drew her ticket; it was against her,.and she retreated sobbing. Another, she succeeded;and giving a loud huzza, ran off to the distant ranksto embrace her husband. A third oannTforward withhesitating steps; tears were already chasing each’other down her check, and there was an unnaturalpaleness on her interesting and youthful countenance.She put her .small hand into the serjeant’s cap, andI saw by the rise and fall of her bosom even morethan her looks revealed. .She unrolled the paper,looked upon it, and with a deep groan, fell hack andfainted. So intense was the anxiety of every per¬son present, that she remained unnoticed, until tliotickets had been drawn, and the greater number ofth.e women had left the spot. I then looked roundand helield her supported by her husband, who was I,kneeling upon the ground, gazing upon her face, ?and drying her fast falling tears with bis coarsehandkerchief, and now and thou pressing it to his.uwu manly cheek.Captain Loden advanced towards them.—“ I am. ntony, IJenry Jenkins,” said he, “ that fate has been iagainst you ; hut bear up and he stout-hearted.”“ I am so, Captain,” said the soldier, as he look-od up, and passed his rough hand across his face; -“ but ’tis a hard thing to part from a wife, and sheso soon to be a mother.” . i“Oh! Captain, ” sobbed the young woman, “asyouare both a husband and a father, do not take him ofrom me. I Lave no friend in the wide world, but toone, and will you let him hide with me? Oh! take i10:ne mth him,—take me with liim,-r-for the love-of>jrod take me with him, Captain.” She fell on Iuqpknees, laid hold of the officer’s sash, clasped it fifim-y between her hands, and looked up in his face, ex¬claiming, “Oh! leave me my only hope, at least tiUjJod has given me anotherand repeated in heart-•feoding accents, “ Oh ! take me with him, take mevith him!”The gallant officer was himself in tears; he knewliat it was impossible to grant the poor wife’s peti-ion, without creating much discontent in his com->any, and he gazed upon them with that feelingv'ith which a good man always regards the sufi’er-ugs he cannot alleviate. At this moment, a smart’oung soldier stepped forward, and stood before thelaptain, with his hand to his cap.I “And whait do you want, my good fellow?” said[he officer.Aly name’s John Carty, plase yer Jionour, andI belong to the second battalion.” *1“ And what do yon want here?”“ Only, yer honour,” said Carty, scratching hismad, “that poor man and his wife there, is sorrow-learted at par-ting, I’m thinking.”“ Wall, and what then ?”“ why, yer honour, they say I am a likely lad,iud I know 1 m fit for sorvice,—and if your honourvuuld only let that poor fellow take my place inlaptain Bond’s company, and let me take his placen yoncs,—why, yer honour would make two poorhings happy, and save the life of one of ’em, I’mhinking.”Captain Loden considered for a few minutes, andlirecting the young Irishman to remain where heivas, proceeded to his brother officer’s quarters. Heoou made arrangements for the exchange of thesoldiers, and returned to the place where he hadeft them.“ Well, John Carty,” said he, “ you go to Beuga:with me, and you, Henry Jenkins, remain at liomtwith your wife.”“Thank yer honour,” said John Carty, againtouching Ids cap as he walked off.Henry Jenkins and his wife both rose from theground, and rushed into each other’s arms. “ Gotbless you, Captain,” said the soldier, as he pressecIds wife closer to his bosom. “ Oh, bless him foiever!” said the wife ; “bless him with prosperity,and a happy heart!—bless his wife, and bless hischildren and she again fainted.The officer, wiping a tear from his eye, and ex¬claiming, “ May you never want a friend when jam far from you,—you, my good lad, and you!amiable and loving wife! ” passed on to bis companyThe happy couple went in search of John Carty.* * * * * *About twelve months since, as two boys were!watching the sheep confided to their charge, upona wide heath, in the county of Somerset, their at-1tention was attracted by a soldier, who walked alongapparently with much fatigue, and at length stoppedto rest his weary limbs beside the old finger-post, iwhich at one time pointed out the way to the neigh-1bouring villages, which now afforded no information ito the traveller, for age had rendered it useless.The boys were gazing upon him with much curi¬osity, when he beckoned them towards him, and en¬quired the way to the village of Eldenby.The eldest, a fine intelligent lad of about twelveyears of age, pointed to the path, and asked if horwas going to any particular house in the villa<m.“ No, my little lad,” said the soldier ; “ but it ison the high road to Frome, and I have friends there;but, in truth, I am very wearied, and perhaps mayfiud in yon village some person who will befriend apoor fellow, and look to God for a reward.“ Sir,” said the boy, “my father was a soldier,many years ago, and he dearly loves to look upon ared coat; if you come with me, you may be sure ofa welcome.”“ And you can tell us stories about foreign parts,’'said the younger lad, a line chubby-cheeked fellow,who, with his watch-cloak thrown carelessly over hisshoulder, aud his crook iu his right hand, had beenminutely examining every portion of the soldier'sdress.The boys gave instructions to their intelligentdog, who, they said, would take good care of thesheep during their absence ; aud in a few minutesthe soldier and his young companions reached thegate of a flourishing farm house, which had all theexternal tokens of prosperity and happiness. Theyounger boy trotted on a few paces before, to givehis parents notice that they had invited a strangerto rest beneath their hospitable roof; and the soldierhad just crossed the threshold of the door, when hewas received by a joyful cry of recognition from hisold friends, Henry Jenkins and his wife ; and he waswelcomed as a brother to the dwelling of those, who,in all human probability, were indebted to him fortheir present enviable station.It is unnecessary to pursue this story further thanto add, that John Oarty spent Ids forlough at Fdden-by farm; and that at the expiration of it, his dis¬charge was purchased by his grateful friends. Heis now living in their happy dwelling; and his careand exertions have contributed greatly to increasetheir prosperity. Nothing has gone wrong witlithem since John Carty was their steward.“ Cast thy bread upon the waters,” said the wiseman, “ and it shall be returned to thee after manydays.”22HELL BRIDGE.There is a narrow pass between tlic mountains inthe neighbourhood of Bendearg, in the Highlands ofScotland, which, at a little distance, has the appear¬ance of an immense artificial bridge thrown over- atremendous chasm ; but on nearer approach, is seento be a wall of nature’s own masonry, formed of vastand rugged bodies of solid rock, piled on each other,as if in the giant’s sport of architecture. Its sidesare in some places covered with trees of a consider¬able size ; and the passenger who has a head steadyenough to look down, may see the eyrie of birds ofprey beneath his feet. The path across is so narrow,that it cannot admit of two persons passing; and,indeed, none but natives would attempt the danger¬ous route, though it saves a circuit of three miles:yet it sometimes happens that two travellers meet,'owing to the curve formed by the pass preventing a'view across from either side ; and when this is thecase, one lies down, while the other crawls over hisbody. Ono day, a Highlander, walking along thepass, when lie had gained the highest part of thearch, observed another coming leisurely up, and be-;ing himself one of the patrician order, called him tolie down ; the person, however, disregarded the com-.mand, and the Highlanders met on tho summit.They were Cairn and Bendearg, of two families inenmity to each other. “ I was first at the top,” feaidBendearg, “and called out first, lie down, that Lmight pass over in peace.” “ When tho Grant pros¬trates himself before the M'Pherson,” answered the |other, “ it must be with a sword through his body.”“ Turn back, then,” said Bendearg, “ and repass asyou came “Go back yourself, if you like it,” re¬plied Grant; “ I will not be the first of my name toturn before the M'Pherson.” They then threw-fail |, i„, ,•  ^23sir bonuels oyer ijio precipice, and advanced withlow and cautious pace closer to each other—theyre both unarmed. Stretching their limbs like■n preparing for a desperate struggle, they plant-their feet firmly on the ground, compressed theirs, knit their brows, and fixing fierce and watch-eyes on each other, stood prepared for an onset.iey both grappled at the same moment; but,ng of an equal strength, were unable to shift eacliler’s position—standing fixed on the rock, with>pressed breath, and muscles strained to the toptheir bent, like statues carved out of the solidne. At length M'Pherson, suddenly removingright foot, so as to give him greater purchase,oped his body, and bent his enemy down witha by main strength, till they both leaned over' precipice, looking downward into the terribleres. The contest was as yet doubtful, for Grant1 placed Ids foot firmly on an elevation at thehk, and had equal command of his enemy, but ats moment M'Pherson sunk slowly any firmly onknee, and while Grant suddenly started back,aping to take the supposed advantage, whirledn over his head into the gulf. M'Pherson fellAwards, his body partly hanging over the rock,ragment gave way beneath him, and he sunkther, till catching with a desperate effort at theid stone above, he regained his footing. Theres a pause of death-like stillness, and the bold•rt of M'Pherson felt sick and faint. At length,if compelled unwillingly by some mysteriousting, he looked down over the precipice. Grantcaught with a death-like grip, by the ruggednt of a rock—his enemy was almost within hisph. His face was turned upward, and there wasit horror and despair; but he uttered no word or. The next moment he loosed his hold, and hisjins wore dashed out before the eyes of his heredi-24tary foe ; the mangled body disappeared amongtrees, and his last heavy and hollow sound arfrom the bottom. M‘Pherson returned homealtered man. lie purchased a commission inarmy, and fell bravely in the wars of the PeninsiThe Gaelic name of the place where this trawas acted signifies Ueu, Bridgk.