T H E- To which are%flded,The CAMBRIDGE TENDER,WITH THE ANSWER.The JOYS op the HARVEST.S M I R K Y NAN'. .GLASGOW,PRINTED B Y J. & M. ROBE RTSON.6ALTMARKET, igca.( ' * ) -•mb' \n(,»>»/^ •# -, .^irt b#* i-** v^»»i(t)*.* (tl'.'H-JS-vr)*.^ )la^* wtl! **-a wu^fiea-* •» 'V Wd 1.^« vrf--. f^MT*THE T E M P E S T.TUNE—BROTHER DEBTOR.C^NEASE, rude Boreas, biufl’ring raiter,^ j Ulten re hndmen all to me :Mefs-ir.ates, hear a brother faiior,fmg the dangers of the fea.From boundincr bellows firfl in motion,where the diftant whirlwinds rile.To the tempeft-troehied ocean,when the Teas contev d with ikie?.Hark ! the boatfwainjioaritiy bawling,'by top-fail-fheets and h.vciyards ftand,Down rop-gaiiants,. quick be hauling,down your flay-fitils, band boys, hand.Now it fre ftiens, fet the braces,the lee rop-fsui-iheet let go.Luff, boys, luff, don't make vfry faces,up ycur top-fails nimbly clew.Now a!! you on down-beds (porting;fondly lock’d kwixt beauty’s arms,Fr-'fh engagement, wanting courting,.fate frotn all but love's alarms.Around us roars the temped lo*oder;think what fear pur minds enthral:Harder ytt, it blows yef harder,now again xhe be at (wain’s cal.The top-faiUyard point to toe wind, Ijqvs,fee all clear to reef each courfe ;Let the Fofe-lheet go, 'don’t mind boys,.tho’ the weather Ihouid be worfe:Fore and aft the fpritfail-yard get,reef the mizze.n, fee all dear;Hands up, each preventure brace fet,mau the fore-yard j cheer, lads, cheer*Now the dreadful thunder’s roaring,peals on peals contending clalh,On your heads iieece rain falls pouring,in your eyes blue lightnings flalh.One wide water all around us,all above but one black Iky !Dift'reht deatits at once furround us,hark! What means yon dreadful cry ?The fdreniasl’s gone* cries every tongue out,O’er the lee, twelve feeif’bove deck !A leak, beneath the cheftreeVfprdng out!. call ail hands to clear the wreck/Quick the laniards cut to pieces,come, my hearts, be trout arid bold;Plumb the well, the leak incrcafes,tour feet water’s in the hold! ' '"While o’rr the drip the wHd waves beatiiigiwe for. wivv'S and children mourn :Alas 1 from them there’s noalas 1 to them there’s no return 1SrUi Uic leak Is gaining on us!both chain-pumps are choah’d bf low ;C- * 4 )Hcav'n have mercy here upo?; us!only He can fave us now.On^the lee-beam is the land, boys,let the guns'o'er board be thrown;To the pump come'evTy hand^ boys,fee her mizzen-maft is .gone.The leak, we’ve found, it cannot pour fafr,v/e’ve light’ned her a foot and more ;Then up and rig a jury foremaft,flic’s tight, (he’s boys, we’re oft"ihore.Now once more, on joys we*re thinking,fince kind Fortune fav’d our lives:Gome, the cann, boys, let's be drinking,to our fweethearts and our wives.Fill it up, about £up wheel it,clofe to the lips the brimmer join,Where’s the temped now ? Who fee’s it?none—our danger’s drown’d ia wine.Th f. G A M 8 RbD G E f£ N D EII.A R D Was my lot to be di(play'd,^ ^ by Cupid’s cruel arrow;STncc I’m oblig’d to go to lea,I go in grief and forrow.Now"from your arms I mult;away,Peggy take my heart a keeping,$Uy tho Puw’r-S above Protect my love,till our nest happy istreting,Falfe tnforn aion, my d-ear jewel,proved, our fepariition,( 5 )And forc’d me from your bread &main*into fome foreign nation.My reputation they cifdain’d,■their might l could not hinder,Which caus'd tnc to be piefs'd away,and fent aboard the,tender.Peggy, my jewel, do not grieve, .luppofe i nauft retire.Since Pm oblig’d to go to fca,it’s you 1 do admire,When Pin upon the raging fea,and in the midft of Grangers, . .The thoughts of you my dcarelt dejr,will help me out of dangers.THE ANSWER.MY jewel’s gone to range the feas,to plow tiic bluft*ring ocean ;May the God of fortune on him imile,fend h‘n > honour and promotion.No rain, or hail; or light'nings dy,por roaring claps of thunder,Nor fwclling billows loudly haul,my darling to caufe wonder.Great Alexander, God of war,.tenderly fmile upon him ;Let no difappointmefu jttend my dear;i fend him honour and promote him.IVlay nor my jewel be difmayfd,. with'cruel wars alarms,' . . ( 6 )Some things in vievr may turn a prize,tul it fiil my lovc-fick arms.No curfed gold, no beauty bright,(hall ever gain him from me* 'But like the lurtle I lha>l temain,^till he returns unto me.No coftly robes, no beds of dowu,fhall make me to farreiwier;Although we part he has my hearton board the Cambridge Tender.The JOYS of the HARVEST.("'tOME all ye Lads and LafTcs,together let us go.Into fome pleafant eorn-6eld,our courage for to fhow.With the edge of our fickles,fo brave we dear the land ?Work o,iv my boys the Fa/mer cries,here’s liquor at command.With a good old leathern bottle,and beer that is fo brown,We ftrip and reap together,while bright Phoebus does go down :So early in the morning,the birds begin to fmg,Such echoes of fwcet harmony,makq? all the groves to ring.And in comes pretty Nancy,her colour for to raife.< 7 )Sfce is a lovtiy creature,I rauft fpeak in hsr praifc :She is a lovely creature,the flow’r of my delight.Through ail the groves and forefis^I’ll range both day and night.John Prefton has good liquor,good liquor it is faid,Good liquor makes good blood,and good blood pretty maids,She gathers it and fhe binds it,die loads it in her arms,Sh ^pitch’d it to the waggpneT,for to fill up his barns.And thus the induflrious Farmer, ,by the fweet of his brow,He.iabours and endeavours,to make his ba.rley mow.Now haryeit it’s all over, «and corn is free from harm;•Jleforc we to the market go,we mult thrtfti in the barn.And'at the harveft (upper,fo merrily we will fmg}We’ll drink a health to the barley-mow.and to great George our King,80 here’s a health to the Farmers,1or cite we were to blame.We’ll y iih them health .and happinefs,till harvett conk's again.( 8 )S M I R K T NAN.TUNE—^MY NANNY O.AH! woes me, p#or Wil!y cry’d,fee how I’m-wafted to a fpan!My heart I toft, when ftrft l fpy’dthe cnaming' lovely mith-maid Nan.I’m grown u> weak, a gentle breezeof ihe dulfky winnowing faa,Would blow me o'er you beechy trees,tind ali for thee, my fmirky Nan.The ale-wife miflts me of late,I u$’d to take a hearty cann! «But now [ neither drink nor eat,unleis his brew'd- and bak’d by Nan.The baker bakes the beTc of bread,the Hour he take?, and leaves the bran jThe bran is every other meid,compar'd with thee, my fmirky Nan.But Dick o* the Green, that nafty lov/n,laft Sunday to my mt ft refs rah,lie fnatch'd a kifs? I knock'd him down,which hugely pleas'd my fmirky Nan.But hark"! the roaring foger comes,and rattles tantara tarrr.n,She leaves her Cows for noify druxs,woes ntk* t've loft my ftnh ky Nan iGlafgow, Printed by«J. & M, Robsrtfon,Sahmarkct, 18oa,