THEWorlds a Stageo N W H I C HEach Man a6ts his Part.TO WHICH 4RS ADDED,A Sailor’s Account of tbe Surrender ofthe French Fleet at Cadiz,Celia’s Complaint forthe Lofs of her Shepherd,SWEET ROBIN’S ELOPEMENT.GLASGOW,Pnutcd by J. & M. Robertfnn, [No. 20. j Ssltmarketf160S.[ * ]The WORLD’S a STAGE.TH I S world’s a ftage,On which mankind engage.And each afts his part in the throng jBut all is contufion,Meer folly, delufion,And, faith, nothing cile but a fong,-A long, a i— .g.And, faith, nothing elfe but a fong.The Parfon fo grave.Says your lotil he Hill fave,And points the right way from the wrong,After pioully teaching,And long winded, preaching,ile puts off his flock with a fong, A, etc.. The Doctor he fills youWith bolus and pills,■With affurance to make you live long,But bcheve me ’tis true,The guinea’s in view.And the reft is all but a fong, A fong, etc.The Surgeon fo bold,His lancets doth hold.And ilafhes your body along :Small wounds he enlarges,To fweli up your charges.His art like the reft is a fong, A fong, etc.The Soldier he rattlesOf fieges and battles.And actions that he?s. been among;. His preferment and fpirit.Are both like his merit,You fee they are brought to a- fong. A long, etc*The Mailer he cries.See the clouds how they rife.Up aloft my brifk lads, it blows llrong.Hoys make US' fome flip.And I’ll warrant the Ihip,Will loon reach her port in his long. etc.Vers’d in quirks and in quibbles.The Lawyer he fcribbles,And moves his mellifluous tongue,*Twixt demur and vacation,He’d raife his expedlatien,Then fmk your eftate to a fong.. A fong, StiThe Merchant is bent,On his twenty per cent,Te him Journal and Ledger belong,Commiffion * with char ges,His profit enlarges.Till his balence may end in a fong. etc-^ With powder and lace.And effeminate face,The gay Fop behold ftrutling along, ■Juft arriv’d from his travels.At nothing he levels.But juft at a dance and a fongi A feng,' c1rpt 7 S 4 ]The gentle Coquet,She’s all in a fret,In the morn if her toilet be wrong;I he whole day flie’Il pafs,To confult her dear glafs,-find at night die away with a fong. A fong,ctc.The furly old Prude,She will fay you are rude,ror the biifs though Ihe fecretly long •But take her afide.You may manage her pride,*nd her virtue bring down to a fong. etc.The Courtier he fmiles,At the time he beguils,Vnd feeds you with promifes long ;He fqueezes your band,^And calls you his friend,ho he means nothing more than a fong. etc.Then let us be jolly,Drive hence melancholy,jince we are brave fellows among,t afle life as it paffes.And fill up your glafles,nd each hondt blade ling a fong.Sailor’s Account of the Surrender ofthe French Fleet at Cadiz.A VE you heard of the comical llorylull happened at Cadhhs Bay ?here the Spanilh Dons got all the glory,.ind we but look’cl on at the fray.Bon Moria, with feave from our fleet,has dapt the French crews under hatches.Ta en their fhips, and their Admiral beat,-—and I am com d home wiJ the ^patchesRum ti iddle, iddle, rum ti iddle, ida,Rum ti iddle, iddle, fal de ral, lal ue ral, ida.Ro-filly, the French Admiral,when he found himfdf out of his latitudeSent a letter of French fal de ral, - ’all about his impoling attitude ;But the Don call’d him filly indeed,if he thought he’d be gull’d by an elfAnd as for his fine attitude,it iropofed upon none but himfelf.Rum ti iddle, &c.Is ext the Don fent a hint by a gun,which he fired plump on Monlieur Ro-filly;rule we drew up to look at the fun,' fomyfejf, Tom and Jack, and Blind Billy.All aboard the mainyard of the Oceangot aft ride, juft to vizzy the lubbers,—“ fighting they’d got any notion—& the Dons prov’d quite decentilh drubbers.Rum ti iddle, &c.o you fee as the cafe was quite hard,we Ihould only look on without fighting.Two boys, baft the mizzen fpare yard Swere giving each other a fighting; ’Cries the Boatfwain, “ Why, I>!m„ your« (trounxe, yeflack j our breeze, or my rope’s end ihall« So we will,” the game-young ’an replies, j“ if you’ll haul your wind down on the Man'lfieurs.” Rum ti iddie, &c.Now, its far as my laming extends,we lett'n the Dons keep the fleet;But, if my Ample mind none offends,’tis a favour we ihould’nt repeat ;^ However, I hope they’ll do well,an4 remember our help as they may, Sir,.. For how it might go none can tell,■ if we had’nt been off the Bay, Sir.Rum ti. iddie,-  '■". ■ —.' Celia’s Complaint for the Lofs of her ShepherdW H AT fadnefs. reigns over the plain,how drops the fweet flowers aroundHow pen five each nymph and each fwain,how fdent each mufical found ?j No more the foft lute in the bow’rs;* beguiles the cool ev’nings away;Sad fighs meafure out the long hours,, fince Damon has wander’d away.- Colin he was our village’s pride,this change from his abfence is feen.It was* he that our mufic fuppiy’d,when gayly he danc’d on the green.\ At {hearing, at wake, ana at iair%j how jovial and Irolick were we,i But now every feafl in the year,is-joyl^fs as joylefs can be.Eut now to America's land,he's fled from his innocent plain,Where nothing but daughter and blood,can be the reyard of his pain.Bv thole- who lytray'd him to go,'l wifii they may fall for the fame.They’ve made him a foldier we know,but us they h^ve robb’d of a {wain.Oh 1 why did he venture from home,to mix among hoflile alarms!No juftice oblig'd , him to roam,or take .up thefe terrible arms.Let thofe who are cruel and rough,regardlels of life and of limb.The country has fotdiers enough,nor need one gentle like him.Where’er the adventurer goes,on land, or the dangerous main,Kind Heav’n protect him from woes,and give him to,Celia, again.Oh ! give him to Celia, again,my true love in fafety reP.ore,I'll ceafe on his bread to complain, »from my arms he fa all wander no more.Kind Heav’n bring wars to an end,and peace to Great Britain re do re,With America join heart and hand,and then I will languifli no more.Then hufbands will come to their wives,and children their fathers will .gam,’Twill fave many thoufands of lives,and I’ll enjoy my dearefl fwain.SV/EET ROBIN’S ELOPEMENT.O Where are you going fweet Robin,what mak’s you fae proud an’ fae lay iI ance faw the day little Robin,my friendilup ye did not deny :But Winter again is returning,an’ weather baith ftormy an* fnell jGin ye will come back again Robin,I’ll feed you wi* moolins rnyfel’.When Summer comes in, little Robinforgets a’ his frien’s, an* his care,Awa’ to the fields gaes fweet Robin,to wander the fields here an* there :Though ye be my debtor faufe Robin,on you I will never lay blame,For I’ve had as dear frien’s as Robin,wha aften has done me the fame.I ance had a lover like Robin,wha lang for my love did implore.At length he took flight juft like Robin,an’ him I ne’er faw any more :But fhou’d the ftern blaft of misfortune,return him, as Winter does thee.Though flighted by baith, little Robin,yet I baith your fau’ts can forgi’e. ,■! i m — ■ ■■ ■—GLASGOW,Printed by J. 8fc M Robertson, (No. 30. j Saittnarket, ile»