CHEAP TRACTS,Calculated to promote the Interest/- of Reli¬gion, Virtue,, and Humanity.No. VIII.MoralTales:CONTAINING,The Unkind Daughter?The Dutiful Daughter & Grand-Daughter,The Complaining. Hufbands,AND,The Desponding Couple,To which is added,The Country Lafs and her Milk-Pail.■L.DUNBAR:[P ’inted by G. Milieu at whofe Shop may be had a variet) o£Pamphlets, Ballads, Children’s Books, Pictures, Catecliifms,£tc.WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,MJF SCOTLAND \eo®esofflossosfficseo©o©o©MORAL TALES-3fay ret the Sage, •when ether methods fail.Convey the moral Counsel in a Tale.TALE ITHE UNKIND DAUGHTER.AS Mrs. Andrews was one day takingher daily walk in learch of objects ofcharity, fhe called in at a little cottage, inwhich fhe found a poor decrepit old woman,named Betty Parker, fitting fhivering withcold, tfnd wiping away the tears which randown the furrows that age bad made in herwithered cheeks. Touched with thefe fignsof diflrefs, Mrs. Andrews kindly inquiredinto the caufe of her uneafineis, on whichthe poor creature replied, that it was oc-calioned by an unkind daughter. I am foold, madam, faid fhe, that 1 am paft moftof the enjoyments of this life, exceptinghat I could have in the love of my child,t I cannot make fhift without food to eat.his, I thank God I am able to buy, forthe gentry in the neighbourhood are verykind to me in fending me money; but,lack-a-day, I am lame, and cannot go outto purchafe what I want, neither can I drefsvictuals for myfelf.j^’’Th( 3 )I have, from my youth, been accuflomedto cleanlinefs, and it is quite a torment tome to be dirty ; yet, here will my unnaturaldaughter let me fit for hours and hoursfamithing with hunger. If I afk her tomake my bed, fhe murmurs, and bids mego into the workhoufe. If (he fweeps my; room once in a week Ihe thinks fhe does toomuch for me. When (lie wafhes my linen,which is very feldom, fhe grumbles the wholeitime. Now, my good lady, continued BettyParker, thefe are hard things for a parentoto bear ; and I hope God will forgive my:nbeing grieved with them, for I cannot helpdthinrking of what I have in former days doneofor my daughter. 1 can truly fay, I havesubeen a tender mother to her, and it is veryf.;ihard to be ufed in this manner by one whom11 have nourifhed at my breaft. Many aiiinight have I lain awake after a hard day’ssjfwork to nurfe and tend her. Many a dayiSiave I flaved and toiled from morning to»inighr, to get clothes to cover her, and vic-niiuals for her to eat; nay, after her poor- dear father died, I have often gone with-it mt a meal that I might be able to fatisfyicr hunger : and though I fay it, (he always:j^ent neat and clean. It is very hard, in-(deed, Madam Andrews, it is very hard to:je ufed fo in my old age. Mrs. Andrews:omforted the poor woman, by remindingicr, that asflie had, according to her own( 4 )account, borne all the .other evils of lifewith patience, (he fhould not let her fpiritsfink now (lie was drawing near the end oflier courfe; that (he (hould try to raife her Ithoughts to God, and think of the happinefsthat is in (lore (or the righteous in the otherworld. The good old woman’s countenancecleared up immediately, and (he faid, thati’uch thoughts were often her comfort in herhours of folitude, though fometimes (liecould not help grieving. To be fure, what 1(he had to compfain of, was not to be com¬pared to the (offerings of her Saviour ; andthe Teftament told her, that every Christianfhould take up their crofs and follow him. rMrs. Andrews faid, (lie was very glad tohear that (he could read, and feemed fo wellro underftand the proper ufe of the Scriptures,and propofed to read a chapter to her ; thiskind offer the good old woman thankfullyaccepted, and Mrs. Andrews having finidred :it, had the pleafure to see that (Ire had givenconsolation to a worthy heart. She promifednot only to repeat her vifit to Betty Parker,but to call on the old woman’s daughter,and endeavour to prevail on her to be moreattentive to her mother for the future. Sheaccordingly did fo,.and found this unfeelingwoman, whofe name was Hannah Jenkinfon^fitting at tea with two goffipping neighbours,who, however, got up and went away when( 5 ) v - ,this lady cam«* in. Mrs. Andrews inquiredof Hannah how her mother did ? on whichftie replied, that flie did not juftly know,for (he had been too bufy to call on her thatday. Mrs. Andrews exprefled her furprife,at her pleading want of time, and began,relating in what condition Hie had found hermother; but the unkind daughter, inftead.of fhowing any concern on the occalion,a: anfwered, that her mother did not knowwhat fhe would have ; and pleaded her own8family affairs as a realon for not doing morefor her. Mrs. Andrews faid, that had Ihefound her engaged in them, fhe fhouldhave been ready to allow of her excuse;but surely, fhe, who had leisure to fit downat the tea-table, might find time to succourher poor ancient parent. She defired Han¬nah to confider what would have becomeof her -if her poor mother had been asthoughtless and inattentive to her when fhewas a little helplefs infant; and that (he w^isfetting a very bad example to her own child¬ren, who would very likely pay her in herown way. Hannah Jenkinfon’s own child*ren were as yet little ones, and an evil whichwas at a diftance fhe did not feewi to dread.She endeavoured to throw the blame on hermother, by laying, that the old woman was,fo fretful and humourfome, there was nodoing any thing to pleafe to her. I amafraid, Mrs. Jenkinfon, faid the lady, thatI( 6 )you uo not try; but even fuppcfing thatyour poor mother is a little tirefome, do younot think it is your duty to bear with theinfirmities of your aged parent? Confider,fhe has but a ftiort time to live in the world;and it will furely fill your heart with remorlewhen fhe is dead and gone, to think, thatyou helped to bring down her’grey hairswith forrow to the grave. Mrs. Andrews■ ufed many other arguments, which at lengthhad lome effedt, and Hannah Jenkinfonpromiied to treat her mother with greaterkindnefs for the time to come, which fheaccordingly did, and the good old wonaanended her days in peace ; and her daughterrejoiced as long as fhe lived, that fhe had-it-prptl her behaviour to fieri This v@unff~ ---woman had been taught to read) but beingalways of a gay turn, and left to herfelf agood deal while her poor mother went outto work, the got idle habits, and never couldbe periuaded to delight in reading theScriptures, and that was the caule of hernegle&ing fo material a duty ; but it is to behoped, that Sunday Schools and Schools ofJnduftry, will be a mean of preventing luchfaults in many daughters whofe parents can¬not attend to them.&&&*&cfit>©°So( 7 )TALE II.The DUTIFUL DAUGHTER andGRAND-DAUGHTER.AFTER Mrs. Andrews lefc HannahJenkinfon, she called in at anothercottage, where (he beheld a very differentfcene. In a neat little room, and in an oibowchair, fat a venerable • old woman, namedGoody Benner, totally blind, who was lif-tcning with great attention, while her grand¬daughter, a ypung girl, akout thirteen yearsold, was reading the Bible toiler. As foonas Mrs. Andrews perceived in what mannerthey were engaged, (he made (igns to thegirl to proceed, and took a feat, in which(he fat filent till the chapter was ended, andthen kindly alking the poor old woman how(lie did, gave her half a crown. This moneywas particularly welcome, as the laft lix-pcnce the poor creature had in the worldwas changed in the morning to buy a three¬penny loaf; however, Goody Bennet hadnot given way to defpondency, for (he hadbeen fo accuftomed to rely on the goodprovidence of God, that (he affured herfelfHe would (end her a fre(h fuppiy by somemeans or other.This good woman was remarkable for hercheerful refignation to the will of God,—(lie( -8 )was thankful that her eye-fight had been ^fpared while fhe had a family to toil for : ?the only thing that grieved her was, that fliecould no longer read the Bible ; for thoughfhe knew a vaft deal of it by heart, andcould recoiled: all the hiftories in it; yetflie ufed to fay, it was fuch a book as aperson might read an hundred and anhundred times, and always learn somethingiiew from it .• but fhe was thankful that ithad pleased the Almighty to spare her the.sense of hearing, by which means fhe wasflill able frequeiTtly to enjoy the benefit ofthe Scriptures, as ner daughter and grand- Idaughter were always ready to indulge lierwith reading them to her whenever they had jtime. To be sure, added the good woman, |1 have one of the bell children in the world;every thing that my dear daughter can doto comfort me (lie does ; not a day p*ffes ;but Ihe (hows her tenderness to me one |way or other: and I have reason to believe ifhe often pinches herself to supply me. O, :madam, 1 could talk for ever of her kind- iness ! and (be brings up her girl to be asdutiful to me as herself; so that I am at¬tended like a lady, and very seldom want ;for any thing. At this inftant Betty Loveit, 'her daughter, came In and brought a nice jmess of broth, which having earned a {billingthat day, fhe had made on purpose for her ; |and giving a young infant, which (lie suck-( 9 Iled, into the hands of the eldeft girl, whohas been mentioned before, fhe fed herthankful parent, who as foon as (lie hadfinifhed her meal, implored the Almightyto (lied his bleffing upon her dutiful daugh¬ter, and grant that her own children mightgrow up to be comforts to her; on which,the eldeft girl faid, that fhe would follow'the example of her good mother, if ever thefame misfortune fhould befal her. Mrs.Andrews, was highly delighted with the be¬haviour of thefe worthy people, and greatlycommended Betty Loveit, who replied, 1fhould think myfelf very wicked. Madam,if I did not honour and fuccour my dearmother, as the catechifm teaches me to do.How can I pray that I may live happilyin this world, or go to heaven hereafter, if Ido not obey the comand of the'Great Godwho made me, and fent me into the worldto do all the good in my power ?—For mypart, if God pleafes to g\ve me ftrength, Ido not mind how hard i work, to help tomaintain my mother, fhe fhall never wantfor any thing I can earn foe her.Then I fear, faid Mrs. Andrews, I (hallrob you of a pleafure if I provide for yourmother myfelf; but I really mufl take thisbufinefs Out of your hands, fo pray come orfend m n.y houfe every day, and fetch what¬ever fhe wants.( IO )This kind offer of Mrs. Andrews camcvvery feafonably ; for though Betty Loveit kwas willing, (he was not very able to fupporther mother, and the had put herfelf to greatftraics to do what fhe had done, and there- |fore received this kind offer wkh grateful |thanks. Mrs. Andrews then took her leave,and the poor blind woman, and her daugh¬ter, and grand-daughter, returned thanksto God for his great goodness in raifingthem up fuch a friend.TALE III.The COMPLAINING HUSBA'NDS. jWHEN Mr. Andrews firft came to livein the village where hiseftate was, ihe was told that the poor men in general^ere great frequenters of the ale-houfe; this ;he was very forry to hear, hecaufe it was a jproof that they did not live happily with |their families ; however, as it was a rule with t;him, not to condemn any perfon unheard, he .refolved to go among them, and inquire |what they had to fay in excufe for them- jfelves; and having occafion to employ agreat many labourers to improve his eflate,he made that a pretence for calling in at theGeorge, to afkt'he landlord whether he knew of iany good,ftrong, adive, fober men out of work?t{ II )The landlord replied, that he had feveral inhis houfe at that time who had no employ¬ment. It was then no more than eleveno’clock in the forenoon, and Mr. Andrewsthought it had a very bad appearance forraeato be at a public houfe at that early hour.What he faid to the landlord was over¬heard by Timothy Sparks, who cried out.Sober men ! What do you mean by that ?here are fober me/r enow in the village t«-work for twenty fquires : then daggering upto Mr. Andrews, and rudely leizing him bythe coat, he faid. Come along Squire, andice a let of fober fellows fit to work for a ,Lord. Mr. Andrews wiflied much to haveliome converfation with these men, and withtthis view followed Timothy Sparks into thcj-kitchen, where this drunken fellow fiung^hitnfelf into a chair, and foon fell alleep;^the reft of the men were fober, and mademany excufes to Mr, Andrews for the rude-nefs of their companion, and all declaredtheir readinefs to go to worjc if they couldget any to do., Mr. Andrews faid, that itthere were any unemployed from that dayfor months to come, it would be their own-fault ; but from finding them in that place,and in a morning too, he w'as fearful theirfamilies would not be much the better fo«their earnings : and added, that he Ihoulcfmake it his bufiness to inquire who were thebeft hufbands, and diftinguifh them, by fomerewards.( 12 )I am fure, cried Thomas Wilkirdon, thait is Bet’s fault and not mine that 1 come tothe alehoufe, I do not love ftrong drink, in¬deed I do not, Sir, bur 1 love peace andgood-humour, and thefe Bet has turned outof doors, fo I thought it bell to follow after.I cannot fay but. that fhe is a notable buft-ling woman as ever lived,- and knows howto turn a penny ; but fhe is fo plaguy nice ;that I am afraid to fet my foot in my own jhoufc : for (he (colds like a fury if I makQ ;the leaft dirt in the world. She wears her- If'elf out almoft with rubbing and fcrubbing; \and would treat me like a flave.—I muffcfcrape my fhoes every time 1 come in, if it jwere twenty times a day—1 mufi: pull themoff to go up flairs, if ever fo tired—1 muftnot fmoke a pipe—I muft not flir the firefor fear 1 (hould fpcil the bright poker: infhort, there are fo many fiddle faddles thatI am quite tired out. 1 hate to be met witha mop and a pail, and followed with a fieve,every time 1 leave the print of a foot in thefand, and therefore 1 come here. Sir, where1 can do as 1 please.Henry Perkins faid, that he had no reafonto find fault with his wife for being overnice, •n the contrary, fhe fairly flunk himout of doors. 'He added, that he had always"been used to^, clean house in his firfl wife’stime, but had never had one fince he mar¬ried the second. It was his folly, he faid tov. J3 ;chuse a girl who had lived servant in afamily, where the maids drefled like ladies,and were always frolicking; and fhe hadfuch a tafte for dreffing and goffipping, thatlet him carry home ever so much money hewas not a bit the forwarder; and flic wasfuch a flattern and dawdle, that he couldnever get a bit of meat dreffed fit to eat,nor fit down comfortably to enjoy a meal :and as for his little children they were neverfit to touch, nor could Nancy, his firft wife’sdaughter, be tidv if fhe would ; so that withone thing or other he was really driven fromhome.Benjamin Philips knew not what excuseto make for himself, and only faid, thatwhen he got into work he would flay athome of evenings as he rJed to do; butnow he had no money he did not like to gohome, for Mary did nothing but take onabout having no victuals and deaths for thethree little children.Mr, Andrews replied, that a hufbandought to comfort his wife under fuch cir-curnffcancps inftead of forfaking her ; andthat if they joined their prayers together,God would fend them relief; but no bleflingcould be expefted from going to alehoufes.James Kingsman faid, that no man wasmore difpofed to love home than he was;and as he had had learning at a free fchool, hecould divert himfelf and his wife too of even-( 14 )ings j but flic was fo touchy there was noliving with her. Sometimes when he wenthome it would be nothing but my dear andmy love, and (he would have a nice Cupperready for him, and you would think, theywere the happieft couple in the world, when,all of a fudden, fhe would bring up oldgrievances, and talk of former quarrelswhich he had forgot, till a new one fprungup, entirely through her aggravating ways,which generally ended in fighting. Thenfhe had, he laid, another provoking cuftom,which was coming to fetch him from thealehoufe ; this, he added, he never wouldbear. Mr. Andrews replied, that, to befute, it was very wrong for a woman to dofo, becaufe it was adting as if (lie hadauthority over her hufband, inftead of herhufband over her ; but at the fame time,the good gentleman observed, that hethought the belt way for Tom Kingsman,was to tell his mind to his wife in private,and in a good-humoured kind way, andthat when (he found he would not go homewith her, and that (he made herself ridicul¬ous, (lie would doubtless give up the point.Will Hudson said, he had a wife whowould provoke a saint; for (he was alwaystaking jealous fancies into her head. Allthe world could not persuade her that hedid not give his company to other women,and.yet he was certain he had not given her* ( 15 )the smalleft reason for thinking so, andtherefore he thought it was very hard to befufpedled ; nor would he ftay athome to beledured by the hour together, and fee herfling herfelf into fits and paffions. It wasenough, he faid, to plague a man’s heart out,cfpecially when he had no work to do, andwanted to read his book.Mr. Andrews anfwered, that he was in¬clined to think Hudfon’s wife had a greatafTeftioa for her hufband, or (he would notbe fo defirous of fecuring his. He added,that it was very unfortunate for families,where this unhappy temper prevailed, eitheron the man’s or woman’s fide; but he ad-vifed Hud(on to be good-humoured, andfoothing to his wife; and faid, that perhapsin time (he might, get the better of her jea-loufy. Other men were beginning to makeexcufes for themfelvcs, but Mr. Andrewsflopped them by faying, Well, my lads, Ihave heard a number of complaints frommany of you ; I am heartily forry to findthat fuch difagreements fubfift between youand your wives; but 1 hope, now you haveaprofpeft of better times, you will go homein good-humour, and it is my opinion thatyou will fdon find things there better thanyou exped. To-morrow morning all of youwho defire it fhall be fet to work. And ifyou have any bvg boys 1 will employ themalio, only I muft infift on your fending them( i6 )to the Sunday School. All this the poormen promifed to do, and thanked Mr. 'Andrews a thouiand times for his kindnefs,who took his leave, laying, Well, my lads,come to your bufinefs to-morrow with clearheads and cheerful hearts. When he re¬turned home he ^ave an account of whathad pafled to Mrs. Andrews, who refolvedto go and vifit the women, in order to try Jwhat her influence would do in letting them |to rights. Mr. Andrews had found, upon 1inquiry, that feveral of the men, not con¬tented with drinking a great deal too much ;beer, were addi&ed to dram drinking, hetherefore purchafed a number of Dr. Stephen ;Hale’s Admonition to the Drinkers of Ipiri-tuous Liquors, in order to give away amongthem.TALE IV. *The DESPONDING COUPLE.THE door of the cottage flood open, jand as Mrs. Andrews was entering fhebeheld a very neat, decent looking youngwoman with a fpinning wheel (landing byher, which fhe had been obliged to flop,having a young infant fucking, and twoother (mail children hanging at her knees,( i7 )f rying for a bit of bread, which fhe had not1 ^ - __ _ _ ,o give them. The afiiidted mother put her*/Arm round them, and prelfed them to herijjieart, and, with a look of extreme anguifh,: lifted up her eyes-to heaven, and cried out,oLord have mercy on my dear babes! Mrs.. Andrews wa,s greately afHidled at the fight,> and immediately difpatched a neighbour’sirjchild after the baker, who was in fight, and::jhe foon returned with a loaf, in the meanI time Hie ftepped into .the houfe, and eagerlyafked the poor woman whether (he had lollher hufband ? He is not dead, Madam, re¬plied (lie, but he is-as bad as left to me, fortithe has been out of work feme time, and hasbeen enticed away by feme idle fellows,who have tempted him to fpend what littlehe faved laft harveft, and now he is runningup a fcore at the alehoufe, while I and mychildren are ftarving at home ; for I can¬not do much towards getting.a livelihoodwith fo many little children, nor will theparifh relieve me while my hufband goes onas he does. How comes it about, laid thelady, that he is not at work? I underftoodMr. Andrews that he offered to employ allthe men whom he found the other day atthe George, and I fuppofe your hufbandwas one ol them > On hearing this the poorwoman’s countenance looked more cheerful,and file laid, that he had indeed told herthat he was going to work for the fquire.( i8 )li¬lt.Ittbut Hie was afraid he had only faid fo topacify her, and that fince his departure thebaker had called upon her to defire to bpaid for feveral loaves fhe had lately had,and refilled to truft her any longer, which rthrew her into the ftate of delpair in which-rMrs. Andrews had found her.The good lady, whofek the fincereft pity p*for this poor woman, immediately gave fomebread to the children, and then took outher purfe, and gave her half a crown, com¬forting her with an affurance, that Mr.Andrews would readily employ her hufbandif he wG’uld work.; on which the woman faidthat (lie never knew him idle when he couldget work to do; and as for his temper, therewas not a better in the world than his be¬fore he met with crolfes; but (he had rea-'fon to think the old faying true. WhenPoverty conies in at the Door, Love files out atthe Window. Let us hope then, faid thelady, that when Indufiry has driven Povertyout of doors 'Love will foon return back again;but, at ad events, let me advise you, not togive way to forrow and defpondency. Yourhufband, you fay, is good-natured-; if fo,his tenderness muft be hurt at *feeing youin affliflion and tears; and 1 am inclined tothink he is the very man who told Mr.Andrews, that he went to the public houfefor no other reafon, but becaufe he couldnot beat to fee his wife take on; thereforeC 19 )ijiet me prefuade you to fummon up a goodl-jlrefolution, and to put on a cheerful coun-j:?tenance when he returns home at noon—) Get a bit of dinner ready for him, and lethim enjoy comfort in his own houfe, and I; will venture to fay he will not go abroad infearch of happiness; for nothing feemsr, wanting here but a little mon-ey to clear offHold fcores, and buy neceffaries; and in re-! If peel to the firft, 1 will fet your heart at eafe,i the other your hufband’s wages will ac-0 complifh.The good woman was quite cheered withr the lady’s kindness, who inquired into thet ftate of her debts, which amounted only toa few (hillings to the|baker and at the chand-1 kr’s {hep; thefe Mrs. Andrews promifed3 to pay as Ihe returned home. So you fee,t faid flte, Mrs. Philips, that your cafe is not3 lo bad as you thought it was: I obferved asi I entered, added the lady, that you prayedto God to have mercy upon your children*! He who knows all things, pad, prefent, andto come, knew that you would do fo, andhis providence guided my Peps to your houfe,and made me the inftrument of relievingyour distress, which has given me greatIpleafure, I affure you. It is very wonderful,continued the lady, to obferve the ways ofProvidence, and how faithfully the Almightyfulfils his promifes of never forfaking thofewho love and fear him, when they call uponBut people like!as I apprehend.him in the day of trouble,you, Mrs. Philips, who arerather inclined to be low fpirited, are approforget thde promifes, efpecially if they donot go to church, which perhaps is the cafewith you. The woman replied, that withthree little children fhe could not go tochurch. Well, replied the lady, 1 withevery poor woman had as good an excufe tooffer for abfencing themfelves from divineworfhip ; but 1 hope you find leifure to readyour Bible ; The woman replied, that (hehad been in too much grief to read lately,but now die was happier flie would certainlydo io.I no longer wonder, faid Mrs Andrews,at your great dejection of spirits, when Ihear that you throw afide the only cordialthat can fupport the mind under the trialsyou have lately met with : let me perfuadeyou for the future, to have immediate re-courfe to the Scriptures whenever you rh'e |in any kind of affli&ion. I do not mean to 1recommend to you to fpend fo much timein reading as (hall break in on your family -employments, it will be fufficient to read afmall portion of them at once. Many ofthe Plalms of David are particularly calcu¬lated to afford comfort, and are in generalvery eafy to underftand ; and fo are lomeof our Saviour’s discoudes. You may alioread in the Scriptures, of both the Old andC 21 )ii|Jew Teftament, how wonderfully God’smithful fervants were often delivered out of! rouble, or fupported under it. But above*|tll you would, by reading the Scriptures,. earn to look forwards to a world of ever-I afting happinefs; and the hope of immor¬tal joys would ftrengthen your mind to en¬dure with patience all the evils of a life£ which will be ended in a few fhort years.Mrs. Philips thanked the lady for herood advice, and faid fhe would certainlyfollow it in every refpedf. Mrs. Andrews{hen lelt her, in order to perform the pro-nife fhe had made of paying her debts.The good woman’s fpirits were quite re--ived by the kindnefs of the lady, and iheifted up her heart in thankfulness to Goddfor fending her fuch feafonable relief, and: refolved to truft in his mercy for the future;t fhe then laid her little infant into the cradle,and leaving the eldeft to rock it, with ai flrid injunction not* to leave it till fhe re-turned, fhe ftept with all poflible hafte tod the butcher’s and bought a bit of mutton,^ which fhe put in the faucepan for her huf-| band’s dinner.Benjamin Philips, who knew nothing ofthe lady’s vifit, left his work with a heavyheart : he hod as yet received no wages,and not having a fingle penny in his pocket,he dreaded to fee his wife, yet he dared notto go to the alehoufe, because he was afraid( 22 ) 'Iof offending the fquire, who had made iione condition of his felting the men to work,, ithat all who were near enough, Ihould go|home to their families at noon. As he drewnearer the houfe his heart failed him, and .he flung himfelf down on a bench which Iwas before his door; but was soon rousedby his eldeft child, who ran out and cried, ,Daddy! Daddy ! come to dinner, it is :fmoking hot on the table. Ailonifhed at ,1thefe words the father ftarted up, and haft- •iiy entered his houfe, where he beheld afight that filled his heart with joy.—A table,fpread with neatnefs and plenty, to whichhe had long been a ftranger, and his wifewith a happy countenance inviting him topartake ©f the welcome repaft.He eagerly afked, by what means fhe hadprocured it ? which she related, and theythen fat down to enjoy it, which he had butlittle time to do, as part of his dinner hourhad been wafted on the bench, and he foonheard the bell ring tofummon the workmento their feveral employments. _ iInftead of dreading the return of eveningPhilips now impatiently longed for it, norwere his plealing expedfations difappointed—he found his dear Bet cheerful and happy,his little ones playful and quiet, and palleda moft comfortable evening; his wife repeat¬ed what the good lady had laid to her, andher hufband agreed to join-with her in thecourfe of life which Mrs. Andrews had re¬commended.( *3 ); From that time the hufband and wife went| church once every Sunday if they poffibly>uld, and the man managed to look afterie little ones while his wife was at churchii the afternoon, and in the fummer timeicy ufed to take a walk in the fields to¬other, and after the elder children were ined it was his cuftom to fit and read to hisife, while she nurfed the little one jo fleep.i the courfe of a few years they had feveralaildren, but they brought them up to doDmething or other, as soon as ever they'ere able, and in consequence of their ho-efty, induftry and cleanliness, the familyfas greatly noticed by the gentry in theieighbourhood, who frequently affifted themvith their bounty in one way or other, sohat they never after were in very great dif-ress, but lived on the whole cheetful & happy.| The Country Lafs and her Milk Pail.TT happen’d on a'fummer’s day,1 A country lafs, as frelh as May,iplad in a wholefome ruflet gown,Was going to the market town;'to blythe her looks, fo fimply clean,(jiTou’d take her for a May-day queen ;rSave ftead of garland, fays the tale,>Her head bore Bnndy’s loaded pail,j! As on her way fhe pafs’d along,rShe humm’d the fragments of a fong;,3he did not hnm for want of thought.( 24 )Quite pleas’d with what to fale'fhe broughcjAnd reckon’d, by her own account.When all was fold the whole amount.Thus, flie, in time, this little ware.Will turn to great account witfc care ;My milk being fold for—fo and fo.I’ll buy fome eggs as market go.And fel them—at the time I fix,Thefe eggs will bring as many chicks. "I’ll fpare no pains to feed*them well.They’ll bring vaft profit when they fell;With this I’ll buy a little pig.And when ’tis grown up fat and big.I’ll fell it to my neighbour Howe,And with the money buy a cow.This cow will furely have a calf.And there’s the profit, half and half;Eefides, there’s butter, milk, and cheese |To keep the market when I pleale.All which I’ll fell and buy a farm,Then fhall of fweethearts have a swarm.Oh ! then for ribbons, gloves, and rings.Ay! more than twenty pretty things.One brings me this, another that,And I fhall have—I scarce know what.Fir’d with the thought, she gave a bound.And down came milk-pail on the ground;Eggs, fowls, pig, hog, (ah, well a-day!)Cow, calf, and farm—all fwam away.Be warn’d by this, ye British fair,And build no caftles in the air.FINISPrinted by C Milter, Dunbui.