HISTORYOF THEWITS JUBILEE,O R,The Chearful Companion.CONTAINING VARIETY OFDIVERTING Jb>7S.THE WHOLE DESIGNED TOChear the Heart, revive the Spirit*, banifh Sor’-nw,excite Mirth, open the Countenance, impr. >c theV Unde-(landing, and give luperiwr Heliih to i^ifcand Converfation.% th^'amoulM? M•;KRY vIA.N Cad' BEN. JOHNSON.EDI N B U R G H:I Printed in this prcfent Tear 1793*iMfr'nk’s APOLor.y.[IVritten by a .Friend.]l\NK Verryvian hath ahvavs;been folicitous to live upo t friend¬ly term with, all his a q i uiit nces,notwithftandin^ his peculiar oil torpleefbme recreation , and therefore e i-j *;ns his Editors to keep in readin:fsfo ne toler ible apology on his behalf;coy'that he would have it even lu-po-fed, that he ever wiihes io faopref h;smore favourable, idea or c hear fill c * n-pany livery man in his own hn nour,(f-nth Frank, coni' quently he is free toa{T rt the native pnvil ^e of riding hisown Hobby, an i inoff^ahvely keepingup fociahr and pood humour.Prank is one who adds not a wordtoo much, or fays no h tie ; who ca >,in a carekds maun r. give a gieat dealuf- plea fur e to others an t defires rat erto divert than be applauded; wno fhewsgood underlhuiding and a delic ne u aof wit in every thin e tl at conus fi .anhim ; who c m enrerta n nis comp my,,though he only tells a talc of a cm idand its hobby-horfe. In a word, fra khas always been the veiy life an i hmlof all our fiimdlv meetings, whichhave never failed to conclude as chear-tuAy as U^un.y> ■ v su( 3 )WtTS JUBILEE, &c.Prank diverting himfelf with {hoot*'-ing in Monmotithfhire, a bulyjVeilhjulHce rudely demanded hiirr toroduce his qnal fic.ttinn, adding, thate would take care, on avcouna of hisu hority, a;:d the little manners heN, that no u quakfied pe.lon Ihouldn^ot there “ l Know little of your au-iority,” rqdid Fra k “ but as'toour ‘Awu^h tU munna s, that is plainnoiigh to every body,”A poor but Oronhy clergyman, who(off lied only a Imali lecturdhip, tromi>: income or w ich he had a large ia-'dy to maintain, had been under the-ceflity, through fome xpeufive fami-ii 2 ly( 4 )3y ficknefles, of contradVirg dtbts wii**fevfral in the parifh, and being unatito anfwer their demands, abfconded f ffom;^ time for fear of being trouble^and, in fhort, was fo afhamed of fcing his creditors, that he evm preva jed with a friend to officiate tor himSundays. However, confi ering ti lmethod of lite couid not laft long, Itook courage, and refolved to preathe following Sunday before his parif fioners ; when he took his text tre*the New Teflament, in ti eie word I“ Have patience, arid l will pay y<£all,” He divided his difcourle into tv Igeneral heads: fir It, hnve p ^tierce; 1'condly, aud i <wiil pay \ou all. He e‘:|patiated very l. rgely and elegantly clthat moft ( hrifUan virtue, patienc*after whjert, ‘ and now ” fayb h“ having done with my fir it head, v* have padenc ’ come to my feco:awu ialt general head, which is, ‘ ar1 will pay you ah—but that i muoefer tr 1 moth r opportunity ” Whuexcellent coot lution fo plealed his credmat they gave hijn his own ticC 5 )k pay Tiis debts, a (Turing him, thatk.y would never trouble him.|| 1 r Be itly (liewing a lady the fine Tt-irarv in Trinity College, and, amonghe reft of th^ books, were his ownrikings eurioufty bound, alked the U-jiv, 44 ow (he b.k d the binding?kne lady anlwered, * * l hey were ex-jrem ly handfome, but (he chofe rather•p have his tx/urks in fheets..frank was once going in a returnfluff cha fe from Bath to Briftol, wfien■ he poft-boy, for the fake of encreafing:iis perquifite,. took up anoiher paflen-;;er a ihoit wav from the city, whojpm.-d out to be a mighty di(agreeablejellow-traveller ; for he was not onlyxtrerndy corpulent, but vms much ad-!t(^=d ro exp.l wind at both extremi-sie j ad l to this, it was pretty warmjjyeather, and the tfBivia of the hofewas very obnoxi ms. Under thefe dif-jigreeabie circumftances. Frank begani:o ateditate ho v he (liould get rid ofpis companion, without being at thei:xpence of another vehicle; and his i-isnaguiation (applied him, upon his fel-A 3 low< 6 )low-traveller afkmg him, if he fhonlbn;ake any long Hay at Briftol ? whelfiaok, anfwered th it would dependupon t e ff (5ls of the f dt watej*What,” rdumed hi< companicm, “ aijsyou going to drink it * No, Sir,anfwered Fiank, I am going to hdipped”—** (hay Sir,” i j ined thquerift, with f Jine precipitancy, “ whamay be your (iilorder ‘ Why, Sir;’/aid Frank, “ if you can keep a lecret1 Will tell you—! have Keen bit by :mad dog.”—“ Bit by a mad doir, Sirvlaid the other, with no Imall ernoiionI hope that )ou have not ccmmianica-ted your diforder to any one*in thefame manner,”—“ Really,” anfwerecIrank, ‘4 to be ingenious with you, itwas but yeflerday that 1 bit my own fidSHer; aud if my wife had not elcapedout of the window, Hie would have (ha¬red the fame fate.”—“The de\il fhewould !” refumed the traveller : “ I amin a very comfortable fituation, then.”Fjank now dilplayed fome diftortionsof features and gdliculations, that con¬vinced ins feRow-traveller the criticalfit was coming on ; lo that, had Franknot^began to bark and howl like a dog^f 7 }he wouhl not have ftaid longerhim ; as it was, he thought it highlypendent to open t1 e ch ufe-door, and,at t!.e i ilk or hi- neck, jmupt out andleit his mad companion.' When a Rev dodar was preachingin Yottenham-court-road, an enthufia-itic d icriptive ferman, comparing theRate «f man to a Ihip at lea, a prefb-gang came into theohapel, and auend-ed to the dilc^mfe with much gravity.Now,” fays the D dor, after yourca'm and fine weather is ever, comes afudden Itorm, you are driven on a Ice-Ihore, the billows dalh againft the rocks,and all is horror and death around ;your fails are blown from your yards,your mads go by the board, you let goyour anchors, your verv anchor of hope,your cables part; alas ! alas ! whai willye do ?” “ Do!” fays one of the tars,4‘ d—n my eyes, take to the long bpa:.’,A lea captain being jud come afhore,was invited by lome gentlemen to ahunting match After hi* fpoitwas o-ver, he gave his trie ids this particularaccount of what padime he had : “ Uurhorfes( 8 )horfes being completely rigged, wemanned them, and the wind beingS. W. tweney of us being in company,away we fet oyer the Downs, in thetime of half a watch we fpied a liaieunder a full gale; wc tacked, and floodafter her: coming up dole, flic tacked^and we tacked, upon which tack I hadlike to have run aground ; but gettingc ole, cff l flood after her again; butas the devil would have it, juft about tolay her aboard, bearing too much wind,1 and my horfe overfet, and came keelupwards.”Frank travelling eo the north once,put up at a bye inn on the road, wherehe was rather cliftrefled for accommo¬dations. “ What,” fays he, “ haveyou no cold meat in the houfe, land¬lord?” No, Sir,” fays the hoft, ““ wehave not dreffed any for fbrne day?, asmy poor wife lies dead up flairs.” ‘ Zounds!” fays Frank, “ never cbm-plain again of your larder, for there isno cold meat equal to a dead wife.”' Frank feeing a young lady of his ac¬quaintance, in company with cne MrChildjChiW, w<»nt to the young Udy’s father,ti-and tci’d him with a figh, “ That hewas (hrry to be the meflenger of illirnews.;” but,- Taid he, “ with grief IK exprefs it, 'yotir daughter is toith chili.y/h?.t T fay is not merely conje&ure,‘i4‘ hot abfolute fad, and I am ready to!]“ take my oath that your daughter is114< •with chili" The old gentleiran wasextremely (hocked to hear of (uch acharge againd his only daughter, whomhe tenderly loved, and of whofe chafti-ty he had always entertained the high-e(t opinion. In fliort, the old gentle¬man was almoft crazy, and Frank hadtoo much humanity to let him remain| .-any longer in that fituadon, but banilh-1 ed all his (brrows in the following"words: “ I faw your daughter thismorning, (he was •with child, and byji “ me.— That is, {he was with Mr] “ Child, the Attorney, and by mc^ be-44‘ caufe I •was near her/’An Trifh gentleman, in companyj| with f ^me friends at a tavern, hearingTome perfons walking up Hairs, offeredi to lay a wager., that he knew who wascomin u( to )coming. The wager was accepted arcwon. for the gentleman whom he h.;named appeared. “ I was fure I fhoul( fm> the honcft Hibernian, forkhC'iv, the voice of his foot ”The jate king of Pruflia, who loveto converfe with his /idj ch, being oa journey to Breflaw, pafii„g by a tatmers houle near Schweirint z, obferSthat he had abundance of h ie caithand a remarkable large ciunghUl. fhmonarch a deed him, how he contriveljto manage fo much better than h|neighbours ? “ iV!y father,” faid thj, firmer, was killed by your majedyi^ licie, and f have tee indulgence-ojbeing exempted from tax:s v h eiiwill alw.iys encreafe a farmer’s itoclt“ and profpency.” “ 1 am glad you*• have experienced this,” laid th*king; “but 1 am afraid we n ufl bcontent to fee fmaller" dung In Is if thewar continues ; for my people mufi“ be dejended as well as fed ”A gentleman obferving on thefmait*refs of C. F—, while he was yet a lad,anotiur who was Handing by obferved,that{ 11 )that when children <lifcovered fo muchgenius in their early years, they gene-rally grew very itupid when they cometo maturity, “ If that is h: cde,”faid C. F. tl en you niuft have beenvery rematkable for your genius** when you were a child.”One who had been obliged to take uphis lodgings in St George’s Fields, beingLrougnt up by habeas corpus to give e-vidence on a trial at Weftminfter Hall,Counfellor Dunning afked him w ith afneer. Whether he was not a King’sBench Collegian? ‘‘ Yes, Sir,” repliedthe other,“ and I really thought byre-fiding there l fhould have avoided theimpertinencesjof Dunning?'A certain American officer boaflingbefore one of the generals, that he waswounded in the face in a late adlionwith the royali'ls, his general knowinghiin to be a coward: at firft took no no¬tice of what he advanced ; but on hisrepea ing the boaft, only advifed d im,the next time he run away, not to lookbehind him.A( r2 )A certain modern philcfopher havingbeen at great pains to define the meaming of the term beautif ul, at length gav’jit as his opinion, that every thing warbeautiful which anOered the end. Soin?jtime after, the phijofopher having taken a dole of very hitter phyfic, Frank■who had heard his definition, afkrth;m, whether the medicine had operatedas it was defigned •? “ Yes,” replied thphilofopher. ft was beautiful fhyjic^cried Frank. “ By no means,” return¬ed the moralift, “ it had an ill look!fmell and taffe, and made me for th?prefent very fick.” A few davs after*wards, this .philofopher having offendera ixom man, who gave him the difeip-jline,of the horfewhip, Frank, who w-a^sprefent, interpofed 10 fave him, tuxcould not help obferving, that it was £beautiful hip ‘‘ d could not fee thebeauty of it,*’ faid the philofopher,--*-“ Oh,” replied Frank, ‘‘ it mufl hobeautiful, according co your own de-leription, for at certainly anfivered .t,end for which it 'u as intended ” iTwo Scotchmen meeting on thelnorthern road, he who was travellingYouth ward!( 13 )"TomWard, req'iefted the other to givehim fome account of the capital, add¬ing, “ it is very ftrange, that we can. get^but a very imperfed defcription offo great a city in our partvfrom whencedo many go thither/’ Not at all,” re¬plied t'e northern traveller, “ it is be-caufe Jo fcio ever think proper to come■hack again”A certain eminent tradefman in the‘City, not more remarkable for a neardefcription than for a competent flock-of affurance, which he generally dif-played a great portion among his femaleacquaintance, being aiked for charityrby oi e who {eemed a real ohjecl, repli¬ed, according to his ufual phrale, “ 1have ro copper, friend ” 44 That isoften the gen JemariV-caP,” fdd a la¬dy in company , 44 but, however, toaiiake amends he always carries brafetenough about him,”A rpacaroni gentleman in the milita¬ry line, having given a loldier a threfh-ing with his cane for '' look ng jfaucily,and f cored ally ” as he cxprefTed it. onetof his brot!*:r officers iaymg ibniethingin the man’s behalf, the other faicl, bebelieved the fellow might be a goodman, but he col Id not always rommandhis temper. 1 he veteran fficer^bfer-ved, that he bad been alwa - f en tocommand it in company of his equals. ;The macaroni then fa.d that was be-caufe they never provoked him, norlooked Icornfully at him. “ I am of adifferent opinion,” anfwered his bro¬ther officer, fiis veying him with a lookof fupreme contempt; “ I have nowcontrad-ifled you, and am at this timeprovoking you much more than thepoor fellow did, and yet you bear itwith nill the cntmnefs of plii ofophy.”The otbec fn aktcl off, and thus proved,that hns c nr age was jail equal to hishumanity ”A phyfician; boafling his great know"hledge in his profeffion, fud lie neverheard any complaint from his patients*trank Merry man being in company,'Wittily replied, ” very likely, doctor, !for the faults of phyficiahs are general.lyburied witn tlieir patients.Frank, ^ man admired for his wit,but whofe fault was, that he would» fbmetimes( >fometimes rather lofe his friefid thanhis jeft, having made foa e verfeS'upona icolding wife, a gtndeman, his pa¬tron and benefador, hearing them re¬peated, defired Mr Mefryman'to obiigehim with a copy of them ; to whichFrank very prudently replied. “ it isneedlefs to give you a ropy, dcdlor, foryou have the original,”Merryman, going to take water atWhitehall Stairs, cried cue, as he came' near the place, Who cand\vinn ?” “ [m;fter,” laid forty bawling mouths jwhen Frank ohf.rviug one a-way. called ^feer him ; nut >he fellowturning about, faid, “ Sir, I cannotdvvim ; ’ **■ i hen you are my man ” fddMerry man. “ fr you will at leaft takecate of me for your ownA gentleman, rh fi. 0 time he we-ttoBa o, v as very'extravagantly char-ged lor every thing by the peifons inv/i,ofe houfe he lodged, as wed as by o-thers wiion: hr had 'ocel li n ro nealwith ; of which, loon alter, complain¬ing to Mr 'Merry uian, ‘-Si ” -e ietl^Ihe latter, “ tliey have adlcd towar isyou{( 361you on truly Chriflian princ'ples. — '“ Few fo ?” fays the man. ‘r VVhy>,* freturned Frar^k, ‘' You was a ftran^er, tand they took you in.”Mr Merryman, being in company, ramong whom there was a gentleman;who was remarkable for a kind of rudeifatyrical writ, and who having levelledhis jeert' at almofl all prefent, chiefly bypaimicking their voice, geftures, or ta-■king them off, as -it is commonly called §,Frank expedljng it would prefently•come to his turn, {jot up and was go¬ing a ry When being a Iked the rea¬son of his leaving-the company fo looo,he^replied, In enter to /ave the gentle¬man the trouble of taking me off, I thinkit b ft to take nn/dj off ) and io departed*A great crowd being gathered about*a poor cobler, who ha ! jult died in 'heftreet, a man afked the watchman wha*was to be feen ? Only a cob Ur s end, re¬plied he.As a boy was leading a calf withboth hands, a nobleman happened tcnafs by i - m the highwaythe boy, i*' feeacfeems, minded the calf more than thelord, and went drudging on, withoutmoving his hat Why firr ih, la s^ihenobleman, /?' a/e you no more mannersthan to Jland Ji^rinj? me in the a e nvuhyour hat on? Alas! fays the 1 oy, /’//Pull off my hat with all my heart, if yourtordfhip •wilt but ’light, and hold my calf\n thtz mean time.A merry cobler, as he fat Hitching inbis Hall, was finging a piece ot his o n:ompofition, wherein he very often re¬seated thefe words, viz. the Kinir Jn d tohe ^uetn, and the Queen Jaid to the King.— vVhat was it the King faid to the^uten ? faid one who heard him Crif->in fnatches up his (trap, and lays itvith all his might acrofs the fhoulders»f the impertinent queriH : Hovu nowf'incebox ! lays he, ids a fine age we hve«, when Juch coxcombs as you mujt be'tying into matters of jlate ! I d have youo know, Jirrah, I am too Id) nl a fubjehi9 betray the King9s Jecrets; and pray getou gone, ant dorit interrupt me in myiwfut occupation, lid •with my awl /tit an end toyourC 18 )A«- Derhv affiz^s in I7?8, a womarw convKftecl. of liealfny; to the valu<of ten pence ; the clerk of the aflize cahled out, ‘l Vlarv Jones ! you are fouhfciguilty of Healing value tenpeuce —‘ Very well * anfweied the pnfon r(putting her hand in her pocket.) Here,take a (hilling, give me tenptnce.”At an entertainment given by theheads of a pariih. where Mr Vlen ymanwas inv'ttd, the company, wh n yhdglafs had gone round a little, began tcling and be merry: when the clerx oithe pariih, who lung very agreeable,was lo confcious ot his merit, that hebegan to grow very troublelbme, andwould not fuffer any gentleman to lingexcept fuch fongs as he thought propetto call for. “ Heyday, Mr Amen.” laysMerryman, “this is making too free!naethioks ; for though you make thecompany fing what you pieafe on Sun^days, 1 can lee no reafen you Ihould o-iblige them to do fo every day in theweek.”An Oxford fcholan being informedthat a carrier, who floppedUat the door,was)| you are a very wip* m n *’ 4’ VUy heS’! fo, lays trie fellow ” “ A»d that \ onjjknow all London,” continued the Icho-.Lr and ev ry bodv in it; pray* can|you tell where 1 live?” “ In Knave’s^Acre,” fays the carrier; “ Ay, hut I’mabout to move,” fays the Oxonian :—*’ And that will be to I yburn,” qiioihtht other.^fn one of the fl )ods in 1785, a fam-t|er’s wife was taken m laboui. and nojperfon proper to affid h r living nearerIthan feven miles, the good hufbandirode with the utmofl fpeed to Dr Rhu-'barb, whom he begged indantly tohgd|to his wife. The dotftor being a knoAf-png one, declared, though his ufuil feeiwas two guineas at fuch a didartce,9when no danger appeared ; yet no.v,i(faid he ) as 1 muft go at the imminent•hazard of my life, I diall not budgelone foot, unlefs you agree to give me!ten guineas. 1 he farmer in vain re-flmonltrated on his inability to performBuch a demand : Rhubarb was inlLxi-jble,—-The honcfl countryman’s Jove to- Ins( 20 \Ms Joan rofe a^ove every o^<?tton, andhe at lalt engaged to raile the money.They got to the farm-houfe throughmuch difficulty, an . in an hour or twot e doiflor prefented the mailer of thehoufe with a fine hoy and demandedhis exorbitant fee ; which the farmerimmediately gav him, and they drankeach a ghifs of ale to the bov’s futurewelfare - — By this time the flood wasgreatly in created, and real dangerthreatened the doctor in his return;on which (not being at all acquaintedwith the way,) he intreated the farmer,to lofe no tin e in conducing him back.“ My friend iyou would not come to,help my wife who'was in real diflrefs,unle/s I promifed to give ten guineas,when only an imaginary danger wasbefore you ^ but there is now a real ha¬zard in my venturing to fhew you theway back ; therefore, unlefs you will,give me nine guineas for my trcuhle in,:conducShng you home, you may abide,■where you are until the next dry tea-fan.— All replies were in vain ; no arccould make any imprcffion on the coun¬tryman v Rhubarb was obliged to re¬turn nine guineas j the farmer laudedhim( 21 )! him fafe among his gallipots, and the1 honett man got well home again, tri-f umphing over inhumanity and avarice,, A chimney fvvteper's boy had ju tIfwept the chimney of a barber’s lh*>pin London, and while the bov was ty¬ing «p his foot, lome of t e i- u ney-j men, who were at wor k in the Ihop, be^3 in^ inclined ro uf theii wit on the poor' lid, among orher qu itions ifked him,v hat trade i is tat er w as ? o ' whichthe boy very archly replied, “ Whattrade? ^ hy, my father was a bar her,and 1 might have been a barber too;but to t 11 you the trutn, < drd not lucefuch a blackguard bu mef^ '*A pe rfbn a iking a foundling, who hadbeen bred up ny c arny, b: t had r»)lein life, who his parents weic ?—Doy u rem* inner, -ni, i.iid ne to tht q e-rilt “ when v ou werebot n or begot¬ten? It you t.o, 1 rontels you have anaitonilhin^ memory.”\ humoou^ f liow, a c irperter, be¬ing lunpoe eo as a witaefs on tr aifor an alLult; one of the count 1, whowas very much given* to browbeat heevidence,_ _ _    ■ ^ _( 22 )evidence afked what diftance he wasf-o n ti e paines when he faw the de¬fendant Orike the plaintiff? The car¬penter anfwered, “ Juft to«r feet fiveim hes and a halt ’* Pr’ythee fellowf > s t’le countel, “ how is it poflibleyou can be fo very exaifl as to the dif-tance t” l thought, perhaps, (leplled he)that Jime fool or otler might ufk me, jo fmea/urea it.An arch hoot boy, who was bringingto the t bie a calf’s head, between theki’chen and the dining-room, pickt outo.e of its eyes and eat it; the gentle¬man who had got the eye that w as. left,miffing the orher, afked th ; boy afterit, who confeffed his having tak n it;but how do you do it, fays ihe gentle¬man ? juft /<?, laid the boy, and Inatch- •ii g up the other from the gentleman’splate, fwallowed it.frank VIerrvman, feeing one comingfowards him where he (too 1, alked whoit was, and being told that it was LoidB- - \ (ai l ‘ 1 thought it was a lortl,he looked jo Lttle like a gentleman”The( 23 ),rhe late Fmperor of- Germany Fern^old by a foreigner, chat it app ai edfiance in him o make facii p - para¬in.is, w en all ;h powers of 1-u opeyj e at p^ace v\ith him ‘ My friend,”a d he, this is the way to make them:on'inue f >.”The fame prince being afk.^d, whatvas the wiled method of treating an e-te-ny ? :.e ai.ivered to for jive the in-uies off re ; Being farther qu-ition-i, wn it wis next p oper to be do ; ?te nlw red, “ Ipeedily revenge them ;or” 1 .id he, * if you cannot bring'on fe f gc e < uflv to forgive a man,oa mud exp cT umoll effiris of ms-ice; a quick preventi n is thereto e> ttcr than a -ate remedy.”Dr Graham being on his ftage. in or-ler to promote uh fide of his intdicines,oi i toe c u -trv p ople that he camehere tor tne goo i ot the public, andlot for want I hen Ipeakmg to h s. erry \n- .ew, ‘ \n drew,” Ik vs he,b do we come here tor <want ?” Noith oir.” i s ndrew, we haveHvugtj oj ihuL ut \ bsfides, (conu-nued£ >*  ~v-( 24 )nued he,^ my matter haq a very greateltate, that’s neither here nor there,”A gentlewoman being addrefTed by a:barker to an audbon er, “ Pray madam,)walk in—wny don’t you walk in, ma-clam ? what are you afraid of ?” 41 Opbeing bit ” replied the lady,A counfellor who was very remark¬able for telling long dories, being once:got into the middle of a tale, the per-f. n to w! o n he was relating ir, expref-fiog a deine to be gone, the genth man;of the long robe laid he would tell ithi n tn brief “ Aye,” replied his ao-quaintance ** but the briefs of conutel-lt»rs Hte fometimes two or three Hours>long ”A fhopkeeper felling Tome, goads to;one who f’azcl, “ that he afked too murhtfor them, and that he ihoui 1 not buyfo dear of him as of another becamehe was his friend replied, “ Sir, we smuft gain lomething by our friends, foroar enemies will never come to the ihop.J? I N I S.