AEOF0MRS. HAMILTON.Written by Hersel?.The following is a$ue account of tl.e dealings of Got*wicli liie Widow baish liam lion, who was bo. n andeducated in the Roiniih Religion and afterwards con¬verted to the Ohrittiau Faith, as will appear in thi»Narrative.STIRLING:» Printed and doed by C. RAtJDALi.,k di oNARRATIVEOF THEA NARRATIVEOF TWELIFE OF MP.S. HAMILTON.I WAS born in the city of Frankfort, inGermany, in the 7th year of my age myfather came to Charleilon, in South Carolina;his name was George Beckhoufe, by profelVfion a Roman Catholic. Be lived at Charles¬ton, until I was about 16 years of age, whenI was married to Mr. Alexander Hamilton,an eminent merchant, who in the contefl: be¬tween Britain and America, was fhot dead in. his own hfufe. which v as ccnfumed, with allour property, by fire. In this diftrefled. fitua-tion, having no children except ax adopteddaughter, thus contemplating on my misfor¬tune, my belt friend with all our fubfiancefnatched from me, as it veVe in an infbnt,created in me new and awful fenfations, whichare beyond my power to relate, i then fledto a rich uncle for an ai'ylum, who treated mewith the greatdt refpeft and attention, and?v/elcomed me to his houie and fervants, with?all the accomodations that they could yield-or afford ; he, offered to make me his heir, tand directed his fervants to treat me with al! :the kindnefs and refptft as though they were'really mine. I fived there in the enjoymena'of ail the conforts this world could afford,but was {fill difconfolate, in confideration ofmy heavy lofs, and fo drefied myfelf in mpurn-,ing, and thus palled through fome lonefomeclay and wearifome nights, for a confiderabletime; at length being defirous to obtain fomeEelief, I began to feek after various means ofecreations. until viewing one particular fceneehich brought the death of my hufband toImy mind with fuch powerful fenfations, thatEhead nearly fainted. The fhortnefs of life,nd certainty of death ; the fading nature ofII worldly enjoyments were then plain to myview, and my diftrefs was inexpreflible. I .^ent home, took my b^d with a heavy heartrowned in melancholy, and with penfivemind and wearied limbs, l fell afleep anddreamed*. I thought I was in a beautiful'place as ever I faw ; where there was ail themod truly delightful and fafhionable things in.:he world; alfo cards and dice/ plays that Imad been familiar with in my younger days.-We drank wine out of golden bowls, and hadi!:very thing the world deem delightful I fatit the card table with an Epifcopalian pried,and took a golden bowl and drank a healtho him, and t!:en calling my eyes forward, I>theld a beautiful field adorned with flowers>f various kinds and fine colours, and a greatiompany of fbimng people, drefled In white,* Although fome people may make light oi all dream» yet I' ould beg your pardon for inferting this, for it was peculiarlycr;.ti ig m aie, fjo.uh u ma/ l^>k t<J ocatrsa ^4robes, with white palms in their hands. Theyail fang with melodious harmony. Inch fing.jng as I had never heard before I faw aliothe angels from heaven, joining their longswith them fhe melody, union and harmony*of the teene was truly inexprefiible. I thenlooked onihe before mentioned prieft, and helocked black and very difagreeable, and my-felf like wife, I then fet down the bowl, & laidto them,Inruff begone As foonas I rofe upI faw a great wail between me and thofr fhining;ones, the materials of which fhemed to be ofmetal, (tone and glafs. As I looked earneltly Ifaw a place w here I could go through only Imuff take cfF an extravagant head drefs whichI had on. 1 w as determined ti ar no ornamentin the world flrould hinder me from the enjoy¬ment of fo happy a filtration as 1 faw on the o«iher fide of the walk or to deliver me from mydiiagree- bie company. So 1 calf my head drelsinto the fire and came to the wall; but Idii'co-vered a g> eat fea before me, and muff of necefifay pafs through it in order to get to that beauttifulfield. While I was meditating howlfhouleget thro’ the fea, a negro came and pufhtd miinto it: & it was very boifterous and the wavewere lo high that i was loon drove alhore again.. J he Capt. or thefe fhiningones then camto me ahd 1'aid, Do you fee a beautiful palaceI anfwered, Yes: which was as large athis globe, but it was Hill above this workand had feats of loud gold all around ij&nd this beautiful man aiked me, if 1 fa*the golden fiats, I told Him 1 did: HioM me T fliould have one of thore leafa,provided I conquered my enemies, f nowvvmt v th the greateft jov inexpretable *, andthere cpened a botromlefs pit hnmedia;ely be-.^fore me, and the mouth* of the pit reached fromwal! to wall: and about three ft ones downiheie was a beam, And with grief Ithought it was impoffibie for me to get tothe palace ; as I made a turn to go back*the ground gave way front under me, andi fell mto the difinal pit. but happened to hisupon this beam, and there I fat three days.Then there came another man from thofef fhining ones, and aiked me, What I didthere? I told him the pit was deep., andI could not get out, he then put his., hand in his pocket and took out a final! ballof thread, and told me to take hold of one, end thereof, i told him, I was afraid thethj-ead would break, and I fnould be en-,?irely loft ; but he told me nevsrthelefs to• take hold. *1 got hold of it with both hands,and to my inexpreuible joy, was immediately• out of the horrible pi;. I then awoke, andbehold it was a dreamAfter fome months mediation on my. dream, I fell auaep and dreamed the famei .dream again, and alfp a third time. I’hisbrought me to fuch lerious r.efledions, that- 1 might in a manner fay, that 1 hardly durftileep at all; yet was iuil at a lofs for theinterpretation of my dream. I arofe very* Tor this is Cluilt the rejek.6early one morning and went to my uncleand aunt, and told them that I fa .v myuncle and aunt, the pried, and the people,fxtremriy black in a dream, and. that Ifelt very much concerned about it; but notfo much as to prevent my going to balls, antfother places, public whero at times they would:alk me to tell my dream, out of curiohty.I accordingly told it them frequently ; andafter a while by fuch conduft my troublesentirely left me. But in about a. year andnine months thereafter, there came a gen¬tleman from Georgia to vifit me j he wasa very rich man ; and pofieffed wealth inabundance. The fecond rime he vifited me,he invited my uncle and aunt and myfelf tovifit him, and fee ids plantation : according¬ly we all went together, and beheld his iitua- .tion, which was truly elegant. His houfeWas very large, and ornamented infide andout j on the top was a balcony, and a ium- :mer feat therein. The tldrd, time he came to ■vifit me, he brought me jult fuch a head:drefs as I dreamed about, and it pleafed me. ,We concluded to marry, and appointed a.time when the nuptial ceremony ,'hould be ;folemnized. But about that time tftere wasa people ca led Baptifts in that place, who .were rediculed, and all manner of evilfpoken againft them. I confefs that I ha-ted the very fight of th m, and l ad it bees,in my power, would fcnn have banilhedthem out of my fight and the country too.The aforelaid gentleman took a walk one-day. and when he returned, he told rayunde, that one of his flaves was that day*going to be dipt bv a man that looked morf;like a hangman than g prieft; this muchdifpleafed me I immediately replied, that Iwondered gentlemen of note woti d fufFer^fuch feltaws to go about the country cheat-in g and deceiving poor ignorant people infuch a manner. My uncle faid tic wouldgo and flog the Have home and not fufferthe oi* y wench to be fo deluded* were itnot that, a gentleman had appointed to vilithim that day I told him 1 would go, if hewould furniih me with a carriage. Accor¬dingly I went, i no fooner came to theplace, than l law the minuter, and knew asfoon as I law him, although I never faw himbefore, that it was the fame man as l faw inmy dream, that handed me the ball ofthread and helped me out «f the pit. Thefight of this man fo affected my mind, thatI was as one thunderitruck. He was thevery one whom I faw amongft the fhiningthrong of happy people, and I amongit the•' accurfed black crew. 1 then thought ( wascurled m very deed, which fluf.g me im¬mediately almoit into defpair $ and thusin the greateft agony, I foil to the earth.Viewing myfelf undone lor ever, and eter-8nally loft. I was in the moft deplorable fttua-tion conceivable, and derpaired of ever goingirom that place. I thought that the earthwas juft about to fwallovv me up alive, intoftverlaftiug deftruftion, of both foul andbody, and really expe&ed to fall immedia¬tely into the bottomlefs pit, where therewas no recovery. Pdy di ft refs was fo great,the people difcovered it, gathered around-ma on all fides, and fuppofed me in a fit,and fought means to recover me, but invain ; for my diftrefs was of fuch a naturethat medical afliftance was entirely baftled ;I fainted and fell, to the ground ; they liftedme into the coach again, and canned mehome to my uncle's houfe. A great com¬pany of people followed me. This fituationof urine greatly exafperated the minds of,the people ; iome fwore they would kill the iminifler, >becaufe they fuppofed he had be-::witched me: and my uncle immediately-lent for the Romifh Prieft: to difpel the witch¬craft from me ; but his preftnce was very» difagreeable to •ie. Ijold him to be gone, rfor we were all going to hell together. Ano- rthen minifter then came to me,' but I could (not bear trie fight of him neither , for it ap- ‘peared to me that he had helped me to commit ithe unpardonable fin I told him to begone quick, and that he would neither go tc •heaven oimfelf, nor let others: and“ as hewas turning to go from .me, my aunt tolchim not to mind w hat I faid; for I was crazy'Then this miniftsr be^in to w.ep to fee meia inch a fituation, and adviled my uarleto fend ioi* tha’: Baptii'l minilter, to fee hhe could rake the witchcraft from me He ■accordingly feat for hi.n feventy five miles.‘1 he minilfer willingly came—they fet viclaaisand drink on the table for inn bifi darftrot let even a lervant go into the room wherehe was, left he ihould bewitch tnem af.lo.At length f e came to fpeak with me, andalked me how I did : I told him I was a, poor, miferable, lofi: creature . lie told me,. it I was loft, I was one’ of thole very per-: Ions that Ciirilt died for, and came to; feek and to have. I told him that was in-. poftible, for I had committed the unpar-. donable fin: he laid that he thought that• might be my miltake, for I did not know: enough. After fie had talked fome time,: he put his hand into h s pocket and took; out the'New (eftament: it was the fir ftthat ever I (aw.* tie read the thirdchapter of Mark, and gave his mind con¬cerning the unpardonable (in He toil mehe was going to vifit a gofpel finner, whoie. caie he thought was much worib than.mine, this way of exprefling himfeif f righ en-. ed me very much indeed . for ; no v thoughthe did not underhand mv cafe at all : hei laid, God willing he would fee mb .again| to morrow7. I iaU, pray air don’t forgetc me; and when he faw me fo affected, he* This aindes tp tliv wiint r>i it in her cduc.uwn.faid, Shall I pray for you befrre I go r Ianfwered Y es What fhall I pray for ? Itold him to pray that the Lord might havemercy on me; with thtfe words he teem¬ed affected, which gave me to underhandthat he thought there was no mercy forme; but he kneeled down and prayed ; £kneeled alfo; and when he fpake of thefpotlefs purity of God, befsre whom fmlefsangels veiled their faces, crying. Holy,holy, is the.Lord God Almighty, and thatthe holineis and purity of God filled immen¬sity, I thought it was impoflible that I couldhave mercy; and when he had finifhedhis prayer, he went a\s«y. After he wasgone, I remembered that the man of Godtold me ’hat Chrift came to fave even the.word of finners, and 1 thought that 1 couldnot be \yorft than the vile it. I then con¬sidered that the fpotlefs ang&ls of whom heipake, would rejoice over one finner thatrepenteth., though ever fo vhe I thenimagined myfelf in a great king’s houle,who had an only fon, and one of the king’sSeryants had committed crimes worthy ofdeath, and the executioner was about to ftrikethe fatal blow, when the king’s Ion cameforward and offered to eie, that the isrvant 1might live, the which he did, and fet the fer-vant at liberty j which circumfiance molt 1readily applied to my cafe. I thought Iwas the very fervant; furprifmg aitonifh-'ment filled my foul* 1 beheld the fen of JGod expiring in agonies unknown, by themalicious rage of wicked men, I thoughthe died to fave my life, and rofe again for myjunification, although I was at firlt at a lofs tofee*how one could die for fo many j butwhen I faw and coniidered that the naturalfun couid Ihine on. thoufands, and eachperfon have as great a (hare of the fun asthough he was alone, I by this fnnilitudeundeiitood the myftery that although Chriftdied for many, yet each one had a wholeSaviour. I then faw.that God could bejuft and juftify him that believeth in Jefus,even fuch a wretch as 1 was. In this view,no tongue can tell the extafy of joy that Iwas in, and became the fubjedt of; mydiftref left me, and I could give glory tofGod .with all my heart. I longed to praifehim with every breath; my prayer was.Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Lord,fpeak, for thy fervant heareth.Upon my uncle and aunt hearing thisof me, they came to the door; 1 faid tothem,, dear uncle and aunt, 1 ihall not goto hell for Chrht died for me, and I havegot a whole Savior, ivly uncle then Ihutthe door but my aunt burft into tears inhearing me talk on this fubjed It thencame into my mind that Chnit was baptiz¬ed of John in Jordan, and I mull followthe example and convince the world thati was not afhaxned to own my Saviour be¬fore men. The next day the minuter came.?.s he told me,, with the man whom he wentto tifit, and 1 told them that 1 had foundeomfort, that Jeius had anpeared for myrelief, and that I was now wlHinsr to takehlim for m\ prophet pneft, and king ; that1 felt lietennintd to obey Him in all things s;and that 1 thought His laws and commandswere perfect: y juft and gladdening to e-very obedient foul. I bis declaration fromme, came io unexpeHed to the minifter,that he was o\ erjoyed and furprifed. and laidto the other man, that yeiterday was thehrfl time that ever I heard any thingread from the Bible, and now fhe is ableto. teach me (laid he) Glory to God inthe higheft, for He teaches as never mantaught neither is heavenly injtruftion de¬pendent wholly on human education. Ithen afked him if he was willing to baptizeme ; he told me he was giad or the oppor¬tunity, if I defired it; I to'd him l longedto fellow my Lord and Mailer down thebanks ot Jordan, and that he would haveto fend for me, for I couid not go to theplace rnyfelf 5 he told me he would andaccordingly lent for me the next Lord’sday morning. When ! came down to thewater fide^ i related the dealings of Godwith me, which account proved initrumen- ttai in God’s hand’s of the awakening of .fifteen fouls After the baptilm was ad- .miniftered, they helped me home, to my un¬cle’s ; but behold he ilrut the door againit -me* nnd refufed to let me in. I called to! my daughter, but file gave me no anf - er.1 now began to conclude, that he thatwould live godly in Chrifl Jefus muit lull'erperfecudon.1'hus was 1 difowsed by all my former'friends and relations, in that place, andthe minifter feeing me in this db refied fitua-tion pitied me, and told me, that as longas he had one Uniting of money left, Ifiiould finme part of it. and def)rtd menot to give way to trouble of this kind.1he then carried me away and hired myboard for three weeks, at the end of whichtime he came again, and baptized tholefifteen perfons before-mentioned for theyall gave fansfadtory evidence of a workof grace in their hearts, and alfo broughta carriage for me to go with him to NorthCarolina, as I did and there I lived with himand his people three years: and a happy hap-py three years it was to my pooi foul, a thoughrejcted by my natural relations : yet I think 1had daily communion with a friend that (tick-eth cloier than earthly friends and relations ;even Jefus, who was to me the chiefdtamong ten rhcufand, and altogether lovely.1 realty enjoyed that peace of mind which theworld can neither give nor take atvav :yea, this peace was kke a river, flowingfrom the right hand of God. So great. and incxprefiible was this peace and happiatfs,iwhich 1 then enjoyed that all ofier happmefslooked extremely deipicable and wholly un.14worthy my attention. The world with allits £ay and enticing charnis courted myafk&ions to no purpofe, 1 thought I hadrather lufter rfBifUons with the people ofGod. than to enjoy fi>*a pleafures of fin fora ieafon having refpeft to the recompence ofreward, which I daily enjoyed; eiteemingthe reproaches of Chrid .greater riches thanthe treafures of Egypt: yea. 1 eftcem the pre-fent afflictions not worthy to be compared withthe glory that fhall he revealed hereafter ;and 1 had rather be a door-keeper in thehoufe of my God, than to dwell in the;tents of wickednefs, being poifeffed of allthe pomp, grandeur, and affluence, thatthis world can afford. I think, therefore,that however unworthy I may be of fuchhonour, I would \vilh to invite and exhortall who know nuc thtfe things by happyexperience, that they would try the exper¬iment for themfelves. You may think itftrange that I talk as I do , but O, myfriends I long for your happuieis, I Idngjto fee you rejoice in hope of the glory «£God; yea, 1 long to fee the-faints on earth;join their rejo cmg longs of .praife to God,‘with the lexaphic angels in heaven, at the'news of the return of one more prodigal.-Come them O tinner ! come and t e happy ^for why will ye die ? l hat God in whom!you live, move, and have your being, tells,you plainly,* that he delighteth not in thedeath of him that dieth ; but that he thouid*5turn and live; faying, Turn ye, turn ye,for why will ye die ! Behold Jefus inter¬ceding at the right hand of the throne ofGod for you ; that God would exerthis almighty power, in turning your mmdfrom fin to righteoufnefs O how can yourejett fuch pathetic -expreffions of divinebenevolence? Or why'(hall Jefus entreatin vain ? O why will you oppofe the willies€>f your beft friend ? Or how can you bearthe thoughts of being call off Irorn thepreferce of the Lord, and from the gloryof his power, fentenccd to everlalling de-ftruftion r O my dear friends ! think of thefethings, left you fhould come to cry when•] there be none to regard or anfwer you ; Buti leaft 1 weary your patience I .will purfue my1 narrative :—.After living three years in North Caro-* lira as I obferved, I began to think of■ my father, and his family, all buried in* mifery and Pcpilh iuperftiticn, and wilfully■ ignorant i thought it was poflible* in- cafe 1 could fee ;heni, rhat 1 might be made an* inltrument i>i Gr.d’s hands, of leadingthem to a confideraiion of the folly of theirr ways. 1 therefore thought very anxious about; the matter. 1 alfo (eit a natural affect on■ for them- i a?Id coniidcrea that my fatherwas a rich man, and 1 in a dependantfituation, and knew, that if he had notloft his former regard for me, that he would(help me, notwithllanding our difference of'6opinion; and that he would, as 1 thenthought deiight to have me live with him,'Vften l told my intentions to the breth¬ren they told me, I need not go away onaccountof my being burthenfome to them, forthey were willing I Ihould live with themas long as I wifhed ; that I need not. re¬gard their expence, for they had as v.iiiing.ly maintain me as their own children forwe are ooe. faid they ; but flilh if I Con'dnot content ntyfelf to flay that they wouldhelp me' the which they did 1 then thankedthem, and took my leave. \nd as I rode off ina carriige the driver con dueled very difa-greaably ; 1 refented his conduct towards me,and . as angry with him (the which gave meierhotes.) Now was l fifed with doubts con¬cerning myfelf, and began to think I was.not a Chriliian at all, but a mere hypocriteand had been frying to deceive myltlf and oth--ere ; but I could not deceive God who know-eth ail th.ngs 1 had thought I never fhouldbe angry again let what would happen to me.This gave me great anxiety of mind, whichlail.ed .tor n confideiabje time. We at length'however, arrived within three miles <-t myfather's houfe, where 1 hopped, in hopes thatmy father would lend for me to come home.But the next day my brother came to thehqufe where I was. and the woman of thehoufe laid to me. there’s your brother. 1 hereader can hardly imagine the joy I feltto fee my brother again, whom I had notfeeu for many years, i thought he would re*4 /i j oice alfo to fee me. and therefore V/ent to meeti him, and reached out my hand to him as a! token of friendfhip ; but (hocking to relate,II faw in his face figns of 'h’fapprnbat'cn; he| I'rowned and ftepped back - and refilled to giveI his hand; and faid to me. My father fays, youmiail hot enter his houfe, for you are a dif-j grace to the whole family.< Ke eOeems yoti asla runaway, and a deluded heivtic. rhefe re¬flections from my brother, you mav well thinkexcited powerful fen fat ions in my mind. VoI be thus difowned by my own father and broth¬er, and called a heretic; now came a fairtrial of my faith and confidence in God. Ij concluded that the caufe of their tv Sanation,iof a fief; ion towards me, was becaufe l wasa Chriftisn, and if fo it wou-d become me[to aft like Chrilt ; who, when He was re-jviled, reviled not again ; and when he wasperfecu.ed, threatened not I think I cantruly fay, that all he faid to me, only fcrved toJ engage my foul to give glory to God thatIt was cou fed \vorth\ to <uffer for Chrift’sfake, which l through grace was determined.[to do ; but fti!! Satan tempted me to give up[my determination to live devoted to God ; lj was almoft: tempted to go to mv father andfeign a repentance ot my dilenting from theIRomifh Church. But no fooner Itad I look-"fed into the confequences of fuch a thing but [took up my Te-ftament which my brethren hadI given me, and had a defire to read Tome di¬rections from God what to do ; and the hr fti3fentcnce T fead, was. <c He that will not For-fahe lather and mother for my fake, is notworthy of lT!e.,, I now immediately faw myduty plainly, and felt refolvei to obey Goirather than man. Neverth;lefs I thought Iwould go to the RomiSi church, where Imight fee my father, and that he might feeme ailo ; pera Iventure, all his paternal affec*tir n was not loh for me, and that when hefaw me in a reduced (late of poverty and dif«trefs, it might polholy aired his heart, I ac¬cordingly went. But, O my heart achedto fee thofe ftupkl mortals bowing to theirimages and ptiefts expecting they had pow¬er to pardon fin Shocking thought! I eventrembled at the fight, and could hardly con-tain myfelf. As foon as the exercife was oyermy father came out. I went to him, but wasfo overcome, that i could not fpeak for fometime; at length I recovered ilrengnh, buttcould not forbear fcreaming, and fell rownbefore him; but inftead of exciting pity in ihim, he turned from me, as from an hemic iunworthy of his notice, and would fay noting ito me. I then went home again, and hired imy board for a Ihort time, w ith what money1 had left, which my brethren had given mei;:for the expences of my journey. Soon abetthis, my lather, whom £- ftiii hoped had not:loll all regard for me, lent a gentlemen to metwho ad‘Veiled me in the following lan-iguaMeDdrs. * Hamilton : Your honoured fathen;19Cent me to Rate to you rhe condition? on whichhe will receive you as /his child aeain, -andforgive you all your pad difgr.eeful folly ;which fhali not once be mentioned againdyou. And in cafe yoiftomply, you mud re¬turn to the church from whence you have[revolted, and confefs your fins .*» revoltingas you have, and renounce your frantic no¬tions ol witchcraft and Chrillianity. as youcall it; and you (hall become my beloveddaughter; but if not you mud expect noth¬ing from me. not even to own you as a daugh¬ter ; for l am determined to difown. you incafe qf your obdinacy. I told the gentleman,that it was impofTibie that he fhould difownme, for his name was on his record with thered of his children, and alfo my looks fo fa¬voured his, that all who faw us would knowdor a certainty that I was really his child.But notwithdanding all my confdeuce, I con-idered that I mud of neceflky leave thatplace foon, for my money was now almod:;'pem, and where to flee I did not know, beingicftitutecf any Chridian friends there, thewhich put me in mind of Nicodemus, whooliowed his Lord by night. But dill I had?reat trouble of mind: 1 the rather feared; hat t was like Judas, who denied and be«rayed his Lord for filthy lucre’s fake, that is,n confideration of the temptation that I beforeVpake of, concerning my going back to thejtomiih church with a lie in my mouth, theaotwithdanding 1 thought to ferve my God20privately, the which I now difnpproved of witfgreat indignation However, mv father wa:unwilling to give the matter over fo, withouanother trial to reclaim me from my herefy, a:he named it he therefore emploved a *•?. omiffpneil and a certain Mr Smith, who livecjsnear me '*t that time ; crahy men indeed,had already lived there undi >ny money was about gone, and my clothes were tren fedin^at a low rate, ahuott noth ng and n this meancholy fiiuation not a friend to tell my roubles to, 1 hrd none but Go,! to anpeal to foredd refs of grievances- The wo . nan of th:houfe where 1 lived feldom Ipoke to me on ani’ubject whatever ; in this forlorn fituationwhere to go oi what to do I could not tel!one confideration ft ill coimorted me ; l viev.ed God to be my friend, and that He woufdeliver me out of all trouble in his own wayand I felt wiilmg to place my dependence ohim One davy to ?ny great a it on i hi memmy landlady invited me !o go with her on a vfit: Come, laid the. Mrs Hamilton, go withme to vifit Mis. Smith to day, perhaps it ma:have a tendency to (hake of this fober melar.dioly, that foe ms thus to hang v.bout youaccepted the invitation, not thinking of an:plot againit me, Mr Smith began foon aftj iI went in. to talk with me concerning my faitand difienting from the Homifhi church oafked him, if he believed the Bible-; l hope fclaid hej Well Vou reccolledt Sir, in Rcvelath:low St. John attempted to fal! down and wojv1-iip the angel who faid fee thou do it nor,5ut worfliip God : Now if [ohn was forbid■vorihipping the holy angel, fhail or can I falllown and wor/hip a unful priefl ? ’Tis Jefustas died and fpilt h:s blood to pardonuiy inis, and make an atonement, and nowTits as an interceflbr at God’s right hand :God forbid therefore that I fhould wor¬ship any other than the living and trueGod. Upon which the Romifh pried[prang from behind the curtain where he hadDeen concealed in the greateft heat of paf-ficn imaginable ; it fo affrighted me to fee3 man in lucn a rage, that I refe up to goyc.t of his fight : but it dropped into mymind, that there was now an opportuni¬ty for Gcd to ddplay his power, and thati tbe Lord would help me, I would now[peak in the vindication of his caufe. I ac-coreiugiy fitepped b cs; and I really believetrie’,., the Lord afit tg<i me in difehargingi my duty at that time j *yet notwithftanding all®nat was laid he accofted me with roughilanguage which it is unneceffary here torepeat dt this time -I'dr Smith was fo en¬raged I law he would turn me out of his; houfe, i therefore went out qf my own ac-' cord ; and l really believe, if 1 ever prayed toGod in my life it was then I hadflrength fromv. God to talk to them ; my tongue feemed tobe let loofe, and my heart was enlarged j12it feemed thn.t my mouth was filled with argu*rtients-: the fcriptures flowed in o my mind,text after tjxt, as though the whole Bible wascommitted to my memory. It being in thecity, about two hundred collected, before I haddone fpeaking ; after which I returned to myformer refidence. But my brother being fix¬ed again ft me and the Proteftant religion, raif-ed a mob of a connder^ble number, to takeme away by force ; and what they would havebeen fuflered to do, had they prevailed ill theirdefign the Lord only knows, But fortunatelyfor me, the man of the houfe fearing i‘.e (Jaouldmeet with difficulty in that cafe, took me pri¬vately out to a back place, where he had ahorfe prepared with a man’s faddle on him :the firfl horfe l ever rode in my life. I rodeas I could, and he led the horfe feven miles, £4left me with a ^refbyterian Mmiiter, where!was treated with great refpeft and friendfhip ;and he told him how it was, and made him apromife not to tell who brought me thereThe minifter concealed me in an upper room,and feid he. would expofe his life to fave mein cafe of need ; therefore bid me tear noth-ing.The next Sabbi th he went to meeting, andinformed the people concerning me, and the)contributed fifteen dollars to my relief Afteithf fe things it came into my mind, that my a*dopted daughter, who was then living in bpring4field, in Vermont, if I could find her, would' m23ifford me a home, the little time I had to liven this troublefome world. With the aiTidanremy brethren irr-m place 'to place, [ at laft1 trrived at Springfield^ where I found to my;>neV that mv ^tighter was dead, and her huf-oand nioved«out ot the country.—But fiili. {with to inform my readers, that 'eligion fh’a'lthrough God’s afliflance, be my prii cipal od»•ect; and I am refolved to pray for Zion fliiltet what will become of me/SARAH HAMILTON.'Fcodstocx, Vermont, NorthSett, zttb, 1803. y/t,A FEW LINESDtcmtd Applicable to the Foreplng ; Or file N-.t*rjT ^IL mighty Jesus ; how diyir.e|" J Is thy victorious fwo> d ;The {touted rebel mult refiguAt thy coimnandiug word.. *Deep arc the wounds thine anows give ;They pierce the hardeft heart:Thy fmiles ot grace the (lain revive,And joy fuceeds the fmart.Still gird thy {'worthnpon thy thigh.Ride with m.ijetiic fway :Go forth Sweet Prince triumphantly.And uiahe thy foes obey.And*when thy victories are complete ;vVhen all the chofen raceShall round the Threne of glory meet,To fmg thy conquering grace,O may mv humble foul be foundAmong that favour’d band ; •May I with them thy praife forth found