Love and GriefOR THE DEATH OF THSSUTHERLANDS;A Bail-ad founded on fuel, atid contains the (jfehl 'v.igJiory of wiLUAtt Earl of SUTHEHXAKD and hisCountefs. Having loji an only fan, ihty endeav¬oured to difpel their grief by a journey t* Bath.They had been there but a few weeks, wohtrt the Earl•was taken ill of a. fever, during which the Countefsattended him twenty-one days and nights \ and Jhsdied, perfcSly wo. , out with fatigue and watching,hi June, i 766, and his lordjhip a few days after.It appeared, from the inferiptians on their coffins,that the earl was only 3 J, the countefs 26-To which ij added,4»ly Let Us a to the Meetn*THE CHOICE.Printed ia die Year 1794.( of SCOTI AN" ^2 ]■■ryrt-i'irtf j{** v^V** ^i-<V,:cVrtViFLOVE AND GRIEF,OR THE DEATH OF THE SUTHERLANDS.FROM Caledonia’s diftant bounds,beyond the Murray firth,Where Scottifh men, with warlike foundsjoine dance, and fong, and mirth.There came the lord of Sutherland,,a youth tall, fair, and iree ;lijs race was aye a gallant band,a gallant youth was he.He lov’d his king, his country lov'd >a trufty blade he boreTo fmite their foes ; by fear unmov’d jtheir foes him dreaded fore.Yet gentle was he, too, and land,as kindell friend might be ;For Hill in braveft fouls, we find,dwells fweet humanity.A youth fo brave, a youth fo mild,what lady would not love ?Where’er he came, where’er he fmil’d,in vain the fair ones ftrove.To quench the foft, but dangerous flamethat in their bofoms glow’d ;The' kindling blufli that went and ea;nethe fecret flame If id fhow’d.*1[ 3 1Amid the reft, a lovely maid,Maria height was feen ;Lovely her looks, her manners ftaid,but moft her mind, I ween.Did take who faw, meek was her mindas meekeft infant’s Imi^cs; 4And wife as age, nor yet inclin’dto 3® mirig that beguiles.Nor art nor cunning needed file,her foul was fill'd with grace ;Sincerely good, and nobly free,her foul beam’d in her face.In deftin’d hour young Sutherlandbeheld the beauteous maid ;Her beauty could the youth withftand,fuch beauty fo array’d.Ah, no ! her charms, by Virtue dreft,did feize the hero’s heart;He lov’d, he courted, he was bleft—-death could them only part:—Nor that long time ! —Lift to my tale,a tale of love and woe ;If pity in your heart prevajLlift, and a tear beftow, ^Midft all that worth and wealth combin’dwhich friends and fame confer.Of pleafure on the feeling mind,did live this happy psir.L 4 JTheir happinefs1 to crown, kind heav’ntwo pretty babes did lead :Lent was the bleffing, not fo giv’n,but for it heaven might fend.And fend Heaven did, erelong, for part,the eldeft was recall’d ;Beth parents forely ru’d the fmart,the fmart them both appall’dNow firil appall’d, our warrior bravefunk down in deep difmay ;And oft he view’d his darling’s grave,his darling torn away.Till lieavey thoughts revolv’d too oft,epprefs'd the fprings of life ;His ftrength decay’d, his foul was fofr,it bow’d beneath the ftrife.His friends to flee the feene of grieftheir prudent counfel gave :(From objecte new we meet relief )all fought the youth to lave.Bath’s balmy waters gently ftream’d,their genial aid to give ;Each joy-infpiring Naiad feem’dto bid the warrior live.Nathlefs the lurking licknefs gainsfall on his weaknei frame ;Till grown store bold, enereafing painsteveadd the fever’s flame.Full thirl) days and thirty nightsMaria tends Ids-bed.L. 5 3To her what are the world’s delights»while there her lord is laid ?To lull his anguifn, calm his mind,and hand the healing'dofe.Was all her care : For this Ihe pinM jfor this flie loft repof*.At length her pious care prevail’d,to quell the fierce difeafe Might he but live, whatever elfe fail’d, *fine reck’d not; pain would, pleafe  Ah me ! what tidings do I hear ?“ fine fickens, faints, and dies :“■ Outworn with watching, grief, and fear,“ fhe falls a facrifice.”Hulh ! hide the woeful chance, look gay,'and clofeft filienee keep ;Or Imiling, fpite of for row, fay,“ the lady is afieep.”Say fo next day, try ev’ry ait but ev’ry art is vain ;Prolong’d fuTpence, the wifhing heartrefufeth to fnfiain.c;uaaWhere is Maria dear,” h? cries,c‘ my charmer, where is fie.Whofe looks were wont to cheer my ev'- s“ why doth {he fry fjom me ?Go, bring her; fay .poor Sutherland,bereawd cf her, mult die : ■Make hafte—why do yefpeechlef fiand n“ what means that hidden ugh ?“ Alas! alas! ^Maria’s gone :“ I will not here abide ;We cannot part; we (till are one”  he faid, then groan’d, and died.FY LET US A’ TO THE MEET’N.lY let us a’ to the meet’n,for mony bra’ lads will be there ;Explainin the wrangs of Great Britain,and pointin them out to a hair.There will be grivances fltownwe never before kent about,And there will be things fet agoing,v. ill end in the Devil I doubt.For there a’ the members hae fworn,and pledg’d, to each other their word,-That rather than want a reform,they’ll try it by fire, and bwfwcrd.And there will'be Rofs cudgel player,a fit man for fighting is he :And there will be Donaldfon preacher,the noble BefdRn o’ Dundee.Fy let us, &c.And there will be Geordy meal-maker,wi’ twa-three mair lads ftae the north 5And there v. ill be Haitie the natter,and C alien tier 3^-fon o’ Graigforth :And them will be 'dillerlmitb Sawney,"* now he’s turn’d a dockter himfel,£. r> there will 1’U lome nae lae canny.L 7 3lAn'd there will be Malcom Wright Bailie,and Lawn-Market traders anew.And there will be Todd’s and J. Halley,wyld Margaro, Nicholfon too.And there will be Laing and G. Innes,and Reverent Neil Douglas I trew,lie row’d frae Dundee in a Pinnace,and left the Seceders to rue.Fy let us. &cAnd there will be Wattie Hart Prefes,and Gourly, wha yet does engage.To copie o’er ony law cafes,at tippence otyhripence the page. tAnd there will be G&settew Printer, rin room b’ the Captain he came.And there will be Mitchell young Painter,and Luckenbooth Jacobin Sam.Fy let us, &c.'And there will be White, Brown, and StalkerRail, Ritchie three Richmonds and Reid,James Somerville noted Tea Hawker,| and Morris, and Muir, andMuirhead^|And there will be Elekio the Tinker,wi a face fu o’ forrow and care,1 And there will be Gerald and Sinclar,the Anderfton drummer, and Dair.Fy let us. See.Some there will be tatter’d and duddie,there Urquhart o’er frae the new town,|And Secratar General Srrathurdie,wi ither great men o’ renown.rL-There Delegates will be frae PalileyrAir, Glafgow, ai;d Stirling fu’ rife,Frae Perth, London, Sheffield, frae Leflie,land/ome other fma’ towns in fife.Fy let us, fAnd there will be Tailors and Sutors,and Weavers, and Mafons, andWrighAnd Grocers, and Dominie Tutors,to fettle our Laws, and our Rights.And there they ufe every invention,their King and their Country to ferve, (Then furely they merit attention,and well of their Country deferve. (whaT H F CHOICEA Man that’s neither high nor low,in party nor in ftature ;No nc;fy rake, nor fickle beau,that’s us’d to cringe and flatter.And let him be no learned foolthat nods o’er mu fly books;That eats and drinks, and lives by rule,and weighs my words and looks.Let him be eafy. frank, and gay,of dancing never tired :Always have fomething fmart to fay,but filient, if requir’d.FINIS.-a.