MEMOIR ©ETHE REVEB.EHB)AV11> WILSON,Late Minister of theunited associate congregation,SOLD CUMNOCK;I a. (i In " • *■' T .ft)'. :jO ,,Who died on the i7th ct December, 1S22,Aged 69 Years.ALSO,REFLECTIONSON THE DAY OF JUDGMENTKILMARNOCK tPfintfd hy H. Crawford, BooheCer,1823.MEMOIR OFtfei'.' ifJrib^iilsT E fe oiir^SHfdl d\lty to anttonruje the heathy*-*- the Rev. David Wilson, Minister of tluUsited Ass iciata Oift^rhe^ation of Old Cumnoclrwho died at Cumnock, on the 17th of DecemberIS22, hi iiie’ftSthtyej!* and 69tlof his age. His death is generally and deeply 1|mentod, and he wtil.I6rig .be retueinhered for fh<diligence, activity, and zeal with which he di$ioharged the public aod^priiute duties of the mi.nisterial office. He was very generally known a;3 most laborious and faithful minister of the goj.pel; and it was evident, That the uncommon <. *ertions which he contirmaJiy nvade for the spintual and temporal welfare of his congregation'Sprung from lore to the'work itself —from corriipassion to perishing sianers.—and from a definto promote the edification and comfort of thosewho believed. He early felt and displayed thtpower of religion. When very young, he tooS'jreat delight in reading and committing to memory Ralph Erskine’e Gospel sonnets, (a bouS!which he generally carried about with him till tiehad worn it to pieces in Ids pocket); and^aian)'of the verses illustrative of Christian experience)and of the blessed fruits of communion with God.he was afterwards accustomed to repeat, in hiiexhortations at the communion-table, with grealfltTect, A fact which lately came to our knosHsedge we may mention, as -* striking illustration>f hi* early piety. He and another young man,in intimate companion bf his own, built a turfhouse in the fields, in which they often met forreligious conversation and prayer, slid cften spentwhole nights in these pious and improving exer¬cises. Under the disorder which terminated iahis dissolution, he looked back on these rex eraseswith great pleasure, and sometimes ssid,'that ifle had been then called to put off his earthly ta-5tei!nacle, he thought that he-would luve dkd inhe lull assurance of faith and hope. Thus feel-g the power of divine love, and experiencinge joy, the peacet and the hope which springrom faith in Ctirist, he felt a strong and a grow-j|tg desire to engage in the work of the ministry;tod, after much meditation and prayer, entered,i n that course of learning and study, -which iapreparatory to preaching and defending- the go&*el iif Ch-isti and persevered, till, wider theiles of Divine Providence, he reached the ob-uf Ins devout wishes. - 1 hat his desire to en-in the ministry was a matter of deep andjjrio us-concern to him, is. manifest from a letterjiilachfiattfly came into Our hands, and which, itspears, he had winter- to the friend above-mep-gj.-during the first year of his residence at;e. We m ike the following extract,' as.al-strative of his Chvisnan attainments at thatoitiod. ' W . V1 , :'‘‘Indeed, miy brother, the more that I enjoyl^nmy God, the less,d© l think-of my r ooks, farffe--latter, compared wi-h the former, are taste-4 s and insipid i but yet my soul feels pleasureIp delight iintihese vroxos, “ Go feed the churchr God, which he hath purchased w'ith his q a n4Llood and when my thoughts recur to tfiam, Ifeel animated to proceed in the prosecution ofmy studies. O my soul! mayest thou neser for¬get the day when thy God spoke these words u*-to thee, ^hen in his own divine manner he de¬livered to thee the solemn charge, eommandingthee to go forth in his name, and proclaim thiswonder in the ears of all the people, saytngj—IJehol l at what a price thy God hath bought thee,O ye saved of the Lord ! even at a price of which 1.neither man nor angel can estimate the value'!: Omy soul ! a goodly price it was indeed that w«s >pa:d down for thy 'recovery, even the blood ofthe eternal Son of God in my nature. Mayestthou ever be engaged in speaking to his honour,and praise, t thou ever adore him, mayestthou, ever magnify and exalt him ! A.nd mayGod^ even my God, assign to me whatever hepleases for the exercise of my short life, and maythe glory be to him for ever.” -jHaving finished his course of literary and the¬ological study at the College of Edinburgh, andat the Divinity Hall, under the Rev. Mr. Brownand Dr. Lawson, he was licensed to preach thegospel by the Associate Presbytery of Edinburgh.Alter exercising his gifts for a short dme in ihevacancies, under the inspection of the Associate .Synod,-he received an unanimous call from the (Associate Congregation of Old Cumnock [vacanjn consequence of the translation of the Rev. Mrj{now Dr.) Hall to Edinburgh.] to the pastoral inspeeuoir of which, after going through the usua jcourse of trials, he was solemnly ordained by thiAssociate Presbytery of Glasgow in the year 17S$The interests of this congregation he continueutill his death to promote, with a degree of act*1Ii vitp, success, and sjinrobation seldom e^ualled^and still more rarelv surpassed.As a man, Mr. Wilson, though natiiral’y alittle quick and warm m his temper, was exceed¬ingly kind, generous, and friendly, and provedan attentive and affectionate husband, a kind; friend, and a useful member of society. As a! Christian, his sentiments were purely evangelicaland practical- He was a true Presbyterian andthorough-paced Seceder, wamrly attached to thei principles upon which tne Secession was origin¬ally founded, rnd which the United Church stilli maintains. In every thing which respected theI Christian profession and eternity, he loved andI strongly recommended decision and steadiness.J Being thus minded, he pointedly condemned mea1 “halting between two opinions—suffering them-ii selves like children to be tossed t® and fr® byi: every wind of doctrine,” and unduly yielding toif jsiere human attachments and local circumstance*Ihi the profession of the gospel, and in seekingglory, and honour, and immortality. But whilehe was a steady and decided Seceder, he breath-cti in private and in public a benevolent and c?.-Itholic spirit,—took great delight ia Bible andMissionary .Societies;—rejoiced in the success ofthe gospel, by whomsoever it was preached, andfervently prayed with the Apostle, “ Grace bewith all those who love our Lord Jesus in sin¬cerity.” In short, he was a steady and warmmember of a party, but detested every thing likea narrow and pavry-spim.As a minister of the gospel, the divine and me¬diatorial pjory of Christ, the wonders of his lore,3 and the i\ches of his grace in saving sinners, and! id banging thciTi to glory, accardiug to the gr.t-G "<acus purpose 6f the Father, and by the agencyof the Holy Spirit, formed the great and leading,subjects of his preaching, and gaYe peculiar rich¬ness and suitableness to his ministrations. Hissermons were plain and scriptural; his style, andmanner of delivery, though by no means polish¬ed, were warm, animated, and full of naturaleloquence, and never failed to interest the heart,ana to mcrease the flame of Christian and devo¬tional feeling. In dispensing the word of life,he took great pleasure in illustrating ths excel¬lence and blessed effects of the ordinances of re¬ligion, in urging the faithful cultivation of thevarious graces of the Spirit, and in enforcing thenuttterous duties of toe Christian life. In thusSetting before his own people, and other congre¬gations of the Association where he occasionally ,laboured, the whole counsel of God, he command¬ed general attention, and under the agency efthailoiy Spirit, we have reason to believe, was thahonoured instrument of saving and comfortingmany. He evidently wished to spend and bespent for the advancement of the glory of Christ,the salvation of sinners* and the spiritual sndtemporal prosperity of his own congregation.He was particularly attentive an ! diligent invisitin^ and examining the people of his charge.His congregation was a very large one, an9t thoughit lay scattered over an extensive countrywide, heregularly visited and examined thewhole of it everyyear. As this part of his duty was paiticularlysuited to his active disposition and habits, so inthe discharge of it he took great delight, andfixed upon a very high standard for the executionof it in proof of this, in July 1822, after thedisease which emied him oil had take© firm hold7of his constitution, he visited no les-v than trreft'ty.: nine families in one day, some of which wereisituated at the distance of ten1 mites from his ovtahouse. In visitiag the sick he was equally attrn-tive and diligent. In the disoftsige of this jduty,:it may with truth be said of him, that hs was^instant in season and out of season.” No spe-fies of disease he reckoned as a barrier, no dis¬tance disagreeable, no hour unseasonable, whenhe was called on by affliction to administer the( consolations of the gospel. As in this importantduty he greatly excelled, so he was very fre¬quently called on to discharge it, not only amonghis.own people, but aiso among all classes of thei community. To the spiritual instruction of theijoung he also paid particular attention. Forr. those of them under fourteen years or age, He hads class, which went through a course instruc¬tion preparatory for admission into his Sarbatlivevening school, which met regula.ly during thesummer months, and which consisted chiefly ofwoung persons between the ages of feurteeu andjtwenty-four. As he was unremitting in his at-nention to their spiritual welfare, so to him andmis instructions they paid a corresponding affec¬tionate regard. This was so much the case, thattxhey gradually increased in number • and duringishe last summer, though he was under the ne¬cessity, from the low state of his health, of hav¬ing recourse to assistance, he was more numer¬ously attended ti * ever he had previously been,mis parting interview with them was very tenderhind affecting, before they were dismissed, haij.d Irtiised them in a short exhortation with un¬common fervour and feeling. He seemed to have'impressed upon hi; mind a lively pxxjcntijncfu of8his approaching dissolution. He spoke of it as amatter of certainty, and urged them, as one whoevidently regarded himself in the immediate neigh¬bourhood of the eternal world, and who had theirdearest interests at heart, to “ remember theirCreator in the days of their youth.” He hopedthat, thourh the present was in all probabilitythe last interview he was to enjoy with them*they would still be as active and diligent in theirspiritual improvement, as if he still presided overthem, and guided them in the acquisition of use¬ful knowledge. His youthful audience was deeplymoved, and it was truly affecting to witness thesorrow they manifested in taking their last fare¬well of their aged instructor ■, while he, as heshook them by the hand, g?,ve to each his partingblessing.From this interesting period his health rapidlydeclined, and his bodily and mental vigour soquickly forsook him, that he afterwards attempt¬ed only once or twice to address his people fromthe pulpit i and for about a month before hisdeath, he was almost entirely confined to his ownhouse, exhibiting day after day, evident marks ofapproaching dissolution. Such was the activiryto which he was habituated, and such his delightin the public and private duties of his office, thatwhen the hopes of resuming them became fainter,he felt rather uneasy. An impression also, whichcertainly he had less reason than many others toindulge, that he had done in*e for Christ, andfor promot ng the best interests of his belovedpeople, accompanied with severe bodily pain, inno small degree agitated his mind, and uufitudhim for conversation But as the interesting cri¬sps approached, his mind became more tranquil,9and fieemed to lose its strong attachment to theactivities of iifej and on the movmng of the lastday of his valuable Lfe, a brother iu the ministryhaving visited him, and 'engaged in those con¬versations and exercises suitable to a dying hour,he manifested great serenity of mind, and at lastexpired in the most gentle and agreeable manner.From this short memoir, it i» abundantly ma¬nifest, that the Church has lost a most eoigcitt,zealous, and successful minister; which loss,while it must interest all the lovers of Zion, musti press in a particular manner on the affections andfeelings of the bereaved widow and congregation., Let all in the ministry be admonished by h s death,,, diligently to discharge the duties of then olfice. and-1 labour to promote the prosperity of the Church,that they may put off their earthly tabernacle withn joy, and be greeted with these exhilarating words,VV ell done, good and faithful servant, enter yeniato the joy of your Lord.” Let those who areclocking forward to the ministry, and who are in#ome measure prepared to fill up the vacanciess hat death is now and then making in the Church,ntfmulate the virtues of their departed fathers, and•> ven prepare to excel them in activity and use-;t fflulness. And let the congregation cordially ac<•isVi uiesce in their bereavement, and love one an-‘jither with a brotherly love, in honour preferring; jii |ie another, and‘look to Christ, the Head of theijhurch, that he would give them a pastor accord-■ g to his own heart, who may feed them withfcjisiet'Standkig and knowledge.J. W.-_2- 'J;V J19SECESS’ON.Hi;rHt*Tp the character of the Secession,both a$ to the intelligence at'>d faithfulness of itsministers, and as vo the piety of itstnemhers. hasbeen very fan: and vfc U'ou’d fondly hope, thatthe sens, teho are rising up to occupy the placeswhich their sires are leaving vacant, instead oftprr ishing her reputation, * ► rather raise it toa higher pitch. Let not the present generationdisgrace the memory of tueir pious ancestors —The world and the church look to them with anexpecting eye. Each individual amongst them,Loth ministers and people, should feel and shouldact, both »n public and in private life, as if the ;character of the whole depended on Ills conduct.Eet ministers exert themselves more and more,to promote true godliness in their respective hocks.Let heads of families attend to the cuit.vation ofreligion in their domestic circles. Let the youngvie with one another, who shall be most distir.-gei’tshed for amiableness of disposition, and tortheir zeal and activity in promoting the cause otjthe Redeemer. Let all classes cultivate a spirit;/of earnest and importunate prayer ; and thus shad,the blessing come down from the God of gloryJ« like the dew cf iicrnipn, that descended upwathe mountains cf Zion.”‘ For my brethren and companion;.’ sAe. I wiltnow say, Peace be within tli.ee: because of tiw.:h.opse of the Lore! our Gcd, I will ssci. thy good, IO P.51reflectionsON THEjbJT OF JUDGMENT.“ God R0W comraandeth all men every where te“ repent ; because he hath aopomted a day iR“ the which he will judge the world in rieh-*’ teouSr^s by »that man whom he hath ordain¬ed ; whereof he hath given assurance unto“ all men, in that he hath raised him from thedead ” . ..ataa* Acts zvii. 30, 31.« When the Son of man shall come in hisgloty, and all the holy angels with him, then shallhe sit upon the throne of his glory : And beforehim shall be gathered all nations; and he shalleparate them one from another, as a shepherdmdeth his sheep from the goats: Ami he shallet the sheep on his right hand, but the goats onhs left. Ihen shah the King say utne them onis right hand. Come, ye blessed of my Father,them the kingdom prepared for you from themod at ton of the world ; For I was hungry, and.: gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ve gave me_pnk: I was a stranger, and ye took me in;ill- j and ye clothed me: I was sick, aud \edj.ited me: I was iu prison, and ye came untofi. I hen shall the righteous answer him tr-y-|g, Lord, when saw we thee hungry, and fediftfe. cr thirsty, ami gave thee drink? Wiwu12saw we ti»ee a stranper, and took thee in ? ©rnaked, and clothed tlue ? Or when saw we theeskk, or in prison, and came unto thee P Andthe King sh-dl answer and say unto them, VerilyI say unto you In as much as ye have done itunto one of the least of these my brethren yehave done it unto me I hen shall he say alsounto them on the ’eft hand. Depart from me, yecursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for thedevil and his angels: For I was hungry, and yegave me, no meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave meno drink-' I was a stranger, and ye-took me no:in: naked, and ve clothed me not: sick, and inprison, and ye visited rne not. I hen shall theyalso answer him, saying, Lord, when .saw wethee hungry, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked,or sick, or m prison, and did not minister untothee ? fhen shall he answer them, saying, Verily1 say unto you. In as much as ye did it not tocne of the least ot these, ye did it not to me.And these shall go away into everlasting p-unish-ment: bur the righteous into life eternal, Matth.xxv SI — 4'What a solemn scene. Reader, is here set be¬fore you ! Nor the invention of the fancy of man but pronounced a reality, on toe authority of(rod. Hits day is called in scripture ‘ the dayfcf God—ihe thy of the Lord—the day of the re¬velation of the righteous judgment of Go t—thelast day—and to mark hs pecu'nir importance—ihat day,’—ns of nil times that can be thought of,;the most solemn nod interesting.From the passage of .scripture'which you havejust been reading, you perceive who is to ye iheiJudge on that dav —1 ihe Son of man JE.'L ->>:‘ P ■rvwho,-when in this world, was despised <u.u it*i* wI ted of men-r-who, amid insuit and cruelty,i lired upon t! e cross on mount CJvary —Heill ‘come in his gtarr* and all the holy an«f*sth him, and shall sit on thfc throne rf his {rlory• God hath given him authnritv to ex • ute;lg:r4ent, hecau^e he is the Son of man, Jonni !27. Sinners may despise him on the cross; butev shad not despise him on the throne; for,'lehold he cometh with clouds; and every eyeLdl see him, and they also who pierced him:d all kindreds of the earth shall wail becausehim. Even so, Amen,’ Rev. i. 7. Beforelie Judge shall be gathered ail nations—all- theInerations of men that shall have lived on thej’rth, from the beginning to the end of time 1 —-)ou need not try to form an idea of this a0sembly:njtur mind cannot contain it. I wish you rather;il keep your thoughts at home^—to pause, a’d'Jfleet, that yen yourself shall be one of the mul-jipude: and when the Divitte Judge, ‘ whose eyese as a flame of fire, shall, wirh one penetrat-glance, discern the characters of these count-39 myriads, and < shall separate them one frommther, as a shepherd divideth the sheep freme goats, placing the sheep on his right hand,fid the goats on his left —you must either,bhh heavenly joy, take your station on th- right,r: with trembling and reluctant despair, join,!ic company on the left. Ask yourself,— ‘ It Iitere to die now, vo which of these classes should3| belong at the judgment —'Fhe future p rt ofiids paper may, perhaps, help you to determine:S>e question. Meantime, it ia one of unutterable■tyomeut. for the sentence of fhe one shad be an■jtcrnal blessing, the doom of the other, an eter-lial curse. Those on the left shall go away intoHj#sirpunishment t fhase on fhe right, infr 1€vcrh»str«t; lift*‘Rear with trie a lit'tte, Rf*:dcr for 1 havt »ousoul’s good at heart, I endeatour to set b« “for** y >u, shortly, the characters and mpecnvidooms of these two classes of ironThe characters, [ thick, v^i’.i be unfolded t<you, together with the ground on which the sorttence is pronounced upon each >f vou attend,with a serious mind, to tile following brietremarks.I: is plain from the scriptures, that men sh ill *be judged according to their works. Consult inyour Bible the following passages, and study the*'1connection of each of them. Matth. xvi. VI.2 Cor. v, 10. Rom. ii. 6. Rev. xx. >2, 13.,1xxii. 12. Eceles xii. 14. From these passages,it is evident, that men’s works are to be broughtinto judgment.But if this' be the case, mey we not well inquire. ‘ who is able ro stand before the HolyLord God ?’ 1 8am. vi. 20.—Mark the character,* the Holy Lord God.’ The law of this God is,and must be, like himself, infinitely holy, just,and good. Rom. vi:. 12. I he sum ol it is, ‘Loveto Him with all our heart, and soul, and strength,and mind,’ Mark xii. 29, SO i. e- the perfectionof obedience in heart and life. And surely, theinfinitely Holy, and infinitely Good, does not, inthis law, demand more than he has a light toclaim. Of this law, you and I, and ail our fel¬low men. are transgressors. This law, therefore,lays all of us under a sentence of condemnation.Its language is, ‘ Cursed is every one that con¬tinued! not in all things which are written in thebook of the law to do them,’ Gal. i:i. 10. Be15: ,|not startled at tins; I allow it involves myself aswell as you. Niy, there is not among met-i oneaexueption ; tor ‘ Th^re is none righteous, no, notone,' Psalm liii 1—3. ‘ AH have sinned ami] ppme loort of the glory of God,’ Roan. iii. V3*The only question is, Have you transgressed iif you have, it is an inference which you cannotpossibly deny, that you cannot be justified oh; the footing of a law which you have violated—If ‘therefore, by the deeds of the law, no ll blishall be justified in God’s sight,’ Rom. id ‘20.You may frame a law for yourself; but you ean-inot oblige the eternal God to judge you by yourown inventions. Though works then are to bewrought into judgment, no works performed bya guilty creature, can be the ground of his ac-ixcptance with God. Study this point.Must we then despair?—No, my dear friend;;no, blessed be God, we are not shut up to des-npair—From our Lord’s words, with which 1 be-iigan this address, we see, that though many shallgbe condemned in that day, many also shall bejjBccepted and blessed; and the addies# of theujudge to each, when properly attended to, willnlshow us on what grounds. Observe what hefisays to them on his right hand, ‘ For I was hun-(giy, and ye gave me .meat; I was thirsty, and(ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye tooktme in: Naked, end ye clothed me: I was sick,tiand ye visited me : I was in prison, and j e cameittinto me,’ Matth. xxv. 35, 36. fbe righteousnexpress their surprise at his mentioning theirii j works of regard to himself, when so very lev* ofifthem had ever seen his face in the flesh, so.as toflihave had any opportunity of doing what he as-w scribe* to them. ‘ When saw we thee hungry,36Rnd fed thee? or thir^tv srtd gave thee drinV;: jiWhen s?tv we thee a stranger and to-.k thee in 'if tor rukedf ? i rlo h* d th<-e? rr when Saw wfethe sit k, or in prisuh and ram? unto rhte?* t:ver5e 37—39. He solves the seem' g .-iKHcultf Ibv his reply. ‘ In ts mucii as ye hsv acr e ir unto io^e ot the •east of tbe^e rny brethren ye have 'done it unto me,’ verse 40 In like manner ns rto those on the left hand he chuges tnem uitlvHit dcng what the others had done, ‘ 1 was hurt- jgry, ami ye gave me no meat: I was thirsty ami .ye gave me no drink: I was a stranger, and ye: !took me not in: naked, and ye clothed me not: :tick, ->nd in prison, and ye visited me not/ ver. i42, 43. -and when they too express wonder that ;they should be charged with omitting what they jnever had opportunity to do, * Lord, whea sawwe thee hungry, or athirst, or a stranger, ornaked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minis¬ter unto thee ?’ ver. 44. he explains and confirmsthe accusation, by a similar reply, ‘ In as muchye di 1 it not to one of the least of these, ye didit not tc me/ ver. 45.Now the works enumerated, lead us, tit once,into the characters of ;hose who do them, and ofthose who do 'hem not. Remark, particularly,their nature. They are wosks of charity, andlabours of love, performed to the disciples orbrethren of Jesus for his sake. Jesus considersthem as done to himself; therefore they must besuch works as are clone for his sake. The per¬formance of these works is the evidence of theoperation of certain principles : the want of theworks proves the absence of these principles.—■When you speak of doing any thing for the sakeof another, yea mean, that yoa do it from leye■■Vi **17! 10 him. Th* works ascribed to those on the rightii| hand, show, that love to Jesus is the grand fea*tiij lure of their character, the governing principleb of their condisct: And this love arises from the! right knowledge and faith of his name. The want: of these works, on the part of those on the left_ Land, manifests them to have been, when in the■ i world, such as neither knew, believed in, norloved the Saviour!This leads us directly to the reasons of theiri respective sentences.— Hie one class belong to: Christ, the other are none of his. The one havei ibuilt their hopes upon him, and they are not dis¬appointed; (he other have trusted to refuges ofdies, and these are now swept away. The oneItare his brethren, the other his enemies.Reader, dost thou believe on the >on of God?sithe question is important; for 1 he that believeth,fishali be saved; he that believeth not shall beidamned.’ Have you ever dairy considered the end•Sfor wnieh he came into the world, the dignity of{ns character, and the nature and perfection ofii$ work ? He came into the world, he himselfiays, ‘to seek and to 'ave that which was lost,'’..uke xix. 10. His name was called Jesus, be-ullause he was to save his people from their sins,’..Match, i» 21. He is a Divine Saviour—.* Imma-stiuel, God with us,’ Matth. i. 22, 23 —‘ Godmanifest in the flesh ’ l Tim. iii. 16—“Jehovahi ur righteousness,’ Jer. xxiii. 6.—He who rej ctsrrim, rejects at once the counsel and the work ofpe eternal God.I'.i In order to save his people from their sins, theteenu’l * Word was made flesh, and dwelt amongstfsn,’ John i. 14. By his perfect obedience, theotiess righteousness of his character, he magui-Ii:Sfied the Divine law, a'n.i ma ie it honsurable.—By voluntarily suffering unto death-—shedding hisblood on the1 accursed tree—and bearing the cursein his soul, under the .hidings of lus Father’scountenance, Matth. xxvii- 4t6 he made a com¬plete atonement for.sin, glorified thte holy justiceof God, in connection with his infinite mercy—and rendered the salvation of those for whom liesuffered, honourable to the righteous governmentof God, and to all the perfections of h>s nature;so that the very pardon cf sin, for the sake ofJesus, is the strongest expression of the Divineabhorrence of it.When Jesus bowed his head on the cross, andgave up the ghost, he said, with special referenceto tht work given him to do, ‘ It is finffhed.*—Compare John xvii. 4>. with xix. SO God con¬firmed this as a true saying, by raising him frontthe dead. For the resurrection of Jesus testifiedthe same thing, with the voice from the excellentglory, ‘ This is my beloved Son, in whom i amwell pleased,’ M.itth xvii. .5 2 Pet. i. 16, 17.—•The work of salvation, then, is done. The righ¬teousness and atonement of Immanuel, form theground, the only ground, the all-sufficient ground,of a guilty sinner’s hope towards God. You can- •not add to this work—you must not take fromit... To attempt either the one or the other i* todestroy its effietcy for your salvation. To seek,any other way of being saved, is to give God thelie, 1 John v. 10. and wilfully to damn your ownsoul. ‘ L'hts is the stone which was set at nought,by the Jewish builders, which is become the headof the corner. Neither is there salvation in anyother; for there is no other name under heavemlgiven among men, whereby we must be saved/ !1J>! iActs iv. 11, 12. ‘ We prgy yoa, (says Paul.) InChrist’s stead, be ye reconciled to God. For he(iftatjn made Him, ^ho knew no sin, to be sin for; as y that M e might be made the righteousness ofi God in him,’ 2 Cor. v. 20, 21. It is he who be-i 'ieves what is testified of Jesus, that is reconciled0 God, and shall stand in the judgment. Forto him that wovketh is the reward not reckonedd grace, but of debt. I5ut to him that worketh( not, but be’ieveth on him that justifieth the un-odly, his faith is counted for righteousness.—iren as David also describtth the.blessedness ofie man unto whom God iroputeth righteousnessjrkhout works, saying, liiessad are they whose1 fiquities are forgiven, and whose sins are cover-1. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will. t>t impute sin,’ Rom. iv. f—8. And ‘ it is ofdiith, that it might be by giace,’ Rom. iv. 16.oFor the wages of sin i? death: but the gift ofbod is eternal life, through Jesus Christ ourford, Rem. vi. 23. Though the gospel revealslivation by free grace alone, leaving no merit to»e sinner, yet is theie deep guilt in rejecting it.ji-fe that believeth on him i- not ccuden.ned: butr.1: that believeth not is condemned already * be-lluse he hath not believed in the name of thelly begotten bon of God. And this is the con-fiiimnation, that light is come into the world, andf loved darkness rather than lighr, becausedeeds were evil,’ John iii. 18, 19. See too,ies. i. 8—10. ii.' 10—12.he charade's of suet as believe in Jesus, will3 r correspond to that which he describes in histiount of the judgment. For no man can be aejjever in Christ without loving him—^nd not "la can love him without being his wiiliug andI20obedient subject and servant. ‘ Lnvest thou me ?fsaid Jesus to Simon Peter. ‘ Lowest rhou me i’says Jesus to euch of us. ‘ He that Icveth fr.«ieror mother more than me, is not worthy of me,’Matth. x. 57. ‘ If any man,’ says one of hisapostles, ‘ love not the Lord Jesus Christ, lethim be anathema mararatha,’—accursed at hiscominp, 1 Cor. xvi C2. Dost thou love the LordJesus Christ in sincerity ? with thy heart, thywhole Heart, and in his true character, as theDivine and only Saviour ?—if you do* you willobey him. * If a men love me, he will keep mywords.—He that loveth me not, keepeth not mysayings,’ John xiv. 21—24-. Professions of faith :and loVe are ail vanity and emptiness, if you are jnot ‘ constrained by the love of Christ, to live tohim who died for sinners, and rose again.’ Ifyou are living in sin, or if the world has the chiefroom in your hearts, you are none of his. Hewill say to you in that day * I never knew you.’—For, ‘ if any man love the world, +he love ofthe Father,’ and consequentlv the love of the Son,‘ is not in him.’ 1 John li 15. Ihe love of Jesuswill operate particularly by iove to his people.—* Phis is my commandment, I hat ye love oneanother, as I have loved you. A new command-jment I give unto you, that ye love one anotheras I have loved you, that ye also love one another |By tins shall al! men know that ye are my discip 'les, if ve hive love one to another,’ John xv 12! *j. ii. 51. 35. ‘ Every one who loveth him tha:begat, Icveth him also char is begotten of him, ’l John v. 1. Do you then love the people aJesus ? Vou may perhaps be fond of some athem, because they are otherwise connected witl *you in life. But this is not the iove of the tw» I21• thren, t»y which Quretians < know that they havepassed from death to life,' i Jchn iii 14. Doyou love them as such ? ‘ because they belong toChrist .J’ Mark ix. 41,; on account of his imagein them ? Does your hove lead you to count them‘the f-xcellent of the earth’ to have dtli^ht inOthem ? Psalm xvi 3 Do you like their society ?or, do you ratner prefer the intercourse of thewicked’and the worldly? ^3 your love in wordonly, or is it in deed ard in truth ?i.<v.Ex»niine your character by these remarks, thatyou may be able to answer the question, ‘ werei to die how, on which hand should I stand inthe judgment?'—they who know, believe in,love, ,and obev the Saviour, we have seen, shallhe placed on the right, and obtain the sentenceof mercy.-r-^Vhile those who are destitute of theknowledge^ faith love, and obedience ot Jesus,shall stand on the left and receive the sentenceor wrath. ‘ ihese shall go away into everlastingpunishment., but the righteous into life eternal,’M nth. xxt. 46.I shall detain vour attention but a little longergo impress upon your mind this solemn, affectingtermination of the transactions of *be great day1 4. i The opposite states into which the'-e two classes!of men shad enter, are fully contrasted in the(Sentences pronounced upon them by the Judge,ij* Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kirg-ijdom prepared for you from the foundation of thei world,’ Vef. 34 — D-part from me, ye cursed,linto everlasting tire, prepared tor the devil andnis angels,’ ver. 41 Here we seei'he presence of Jesus, on the one hand;a absence from him, on the other. ‘Come,’ saysiIHe, to those on the light—‘ Depart from me’—22to those ob the left. Blessed inritation ! Dread¬ful bamdnwent!— The blessedness cf heaven issometimes summed up m being with Christ —« Father, l will that they also whom thou hastgiven me be with me where I am; that they maybehold m/ glory which thou hast given me: fotthou lovedst me before the foundation of theworld,’ John xvit. 1’6.Reader, it you have already tasted that theLord is gracious, ;a’ou will learn, from what yo»have been reading; to look upward 9 ith gratitude,for the exercise toward you of sovereign distin¬guishing grace—to look forward with humbleconfidence, your hope resting on the finishedwork of Immanuel,—to look around y®u o« yourbrethren in the Lrfwd with fervent, pure, opera¬tive love—and o iitho world lying unpacked ness,w:th tender, earnest, and active compassion.1. Gratitude to- God for his distinguishing{pace, is one of the leading features of the Chris¬tian character, fully peisuaded, that salvation• is not of him that willeth, nor of him that ran-ne$h, but of God that showeth mercy/ Rom. ix.H>. and that but for the free exercise cf Divinemercy, he would have remained ‘ a child of wrath, ,even as others / the believer’s language is, anJit comes from the fulness of fm heart—•* Not unto ,me, O i.ord, not unto me, but to thy name giveg’ory, for thy /iif-rcv and for thy truth’s sake/,P.ahn cxv 1. ‘I w'iil praise thee, O Lord withall my heart; and i wdl glorify thy rusne forevermore: for great is thv mercy toward me ;thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.Psalm Ixxxvi. 12, It!.—‘ Bless the Lord, O mysoul.’— it is the delight of his heart to be an eter¬nal debtor to the sovereign freedom cf saving23raEe. He would not have the l^n^our, if it wereI'ffered to him; he is inhnittly better pleased thatii ehould belong to his God and Saviour Cultb-:iate this becoming temper of mind, ye who knowne Lord. Nuver forget,; that ip life, death, andjidgment, it is gi ice alone that makes you toiti ’y from the world lying in wickedness.2, , it is only ou|he,iooung-of that grace whichirtttgns lht,o.ugh righteoyt.ess unto etcwra^.hfjfy Jesue Chrs>l our Lordd Rem- v. 2 1 that youin look forward wiilt any controsurC or confi-. cnoe to the judgmei t-sent of God- You have1-U this confedeuce—r,Was it m>t a view of the en-•re freedom and fu ner? of this grace that firstreduced 4it ?,v. flten * hold the beginning of vouronfidence steptast unto the end,’ Heb. in. 14.Little children, pbide tn Inm’-—in Ins rioctrin#i-in his love—in his ways—1 that when He shullrapear, we may have confidence, and not beshamed before him at his* con dug,’ 1 John ii [28.4 Si'ivFhe brethren of Jesus sh( ,utd love pm? 400-iwt, Hatred of one who belongs to Christ, if. ntrtd of Christ himself j fordiis language is ap-;;cable to the feelings u£ the heart, as yvtll as toturds and conduct; ‘ in4as much 2,' did it nota cite of the least of these my fcr#6kr<3, ye<lid.khtt-ome!’ How serious tliil thought of har-lourrng any feeling but love towards an object ofe lev of Jesus ! of Christ’s heart and ours thus1 fix ring ! < \ new commandment,’ says Jesus. his di-ciples, ‘ give 5 unto you, that ye kveic another 2y t ins shall all men know that yee my disciples, if ye have love one to another.’0 xiii. 84, 8.5. Scest thou a man, of whompa have n son tc think that he shall stand with,u on the Lprd’e right .hand, when he comes in24-his glory ?—If you c^n harbour dislike to such «one in your heart, you have reason to suspect!your ever meeting him there. ‘We know thatwe have passed from death to life, bee ms? wGlove the brethren : he that loveth not his brothelabideth in death.’+. ff. you feel the value of that gospel, the faitkof which has filled your soul with joy and peace,which comforts your h ?4rt in affli tions, and sus¬tains your mind in the 'prot'.pect of the terrors oldeath, and1 the.awful solemnities of judgmentyou will not feel indifferent to the state of yoa$perishing fellow-simurS around you. ‘ H or rothath taken hold upon me,’ says David, ‘ beeiusrof the wicked who forsake thy law. Rivers dfwaters run down mine eyes, because they kee|<»ot thy law, Psalm cxix 53, 139 Let the sitqation of such draw forth your tenderest comp;sion—let’ your compassion excite you. as faryou have opportunity, to ‘ teach transgressors tway ot the Lord, that sinners may be convertunto him,’—let it lead you to the throne of graiin earnest, affectionate prayer, for any of yukindred yet iu the gall <S6 bitterness—for thegodly and careless in the circle of your acquailance—and for the universal diffusion of tknowledge of the saving name of Jesus--.t“ men may be blessed in Him, and all natSiiU-him blessed,!”FINIS.