THELAIRD OFCOOL’S GHOSTtBEINGSeveral Conferences and Meetings betwixt theReverend Mr. O GIL VIE,Late Minister of the Gospel at Innerwick;AND THEGHOST of Mr. MAXWELL,LATE LAIRD OF COOL;As it was found in Mr. Ogilvie’s Closet afterhis Death—Written with his own bund.MfftugD feow i! !| Hear nrvf incrv ' (31 > r A .I ;? :V'V? ■ . •;; v o>/,n f'r .■ ■ I ' r .'■/ • ■ (~jc ■■p---v i.e r m i; oi. cuorvcuorl ,ji: Mvx//.BrrI'rf-G /II I W ;r‘ C Jft pmeu»!<^c!■ ' ’'c->7 rr; t-jrorTIB li os,THELAIRD OF@©0acQ 0S0SQ*I -' "l—Ir . ■ ■ ■!Upon the third day of February, 1722, at seveno’clock in the evening1, after I had parted withThurston, and coming up the burial road, onecame up riding after me: upon hearing the noiseI of the horse’s feet, I took it to he Thurston, butlooking back, and seeing the horse of a grey col-iour, I called, Who’s there? the answer was theui Laird of Cool, be not afraid. Looking to himi with the little light the moon afforded, I tookij him to be Collector Castlelaw, who bad a mind»to put a trick upon me, and immediately I struck{ with all my force with my cane, t hinking I wouldi leave a mark upon him that would make him re-t member his presumption ; but although sensibleI I aimed as well as ever I did in my life, yet mycane finding no resistance, but flying out 'of myband to the distance of sixty foe4 ,a»d 'observingit by its white head, I dismouhtv.Ld.m took itup, but had some difficulty in mounting again,I4partly by reason of a certain sort of tremblingthroughout my whole joints, something alsoanger had its share in my confusion; for thoughhe laughed when my staff flew out of my hand,coming up with him again, (who halted all thetime I was seeking my staff,) I asked him oncemore who he was ? he answered, The Laird ofCool. I enquired, First, if he was the Laird ofCool. Secondly, What brought him thither?and, Thirdly, What was his business with me ?he answered, The reason that I want you is,that I know you are disposed to do for me whatnone of your brethren in Nithsdale will so muchas attempt, though it serve never so good a pur¬pose. I told him, I would never refuse to doany thing to serve a good purpose, if I thought\ was obliged to do it as my duty. He answered,iince I had undertaken what few in Nithsdalewould, for he had tried several persons on thatsubject, who were more obliged to him than Iwas to any person living. Upon this I drew mybridle reins, and asked in surprise, what I had liji,undertaken ? he answered, That on Sabbath last, „•I heard you condemned Mr. Paton, and the otherministers of Dumfries, for dissuading Mr. Menziesfrom keeping his appointment with me; and if Iyou had been in their place, would have persuaded §»>the lad to do as I desired, and that you would hav&ffIII5.5one with him yourself, if he had been afraid; andtj you had been in Mr. Paton’s place, you Wouldave delivered my commissions yourself, as theyended to do several persons justice. I asftedim, Pray, Cool, who informed you that I talk-1 at that rate ? to which he answered, You mustnow that we are acquainted with many thingslat the living know nothing about; these things,du did say, and much more to that purpose, andjdiver my commissions to my loving wife. Uponids I said, ’tis a pity Cool, that you who know> many things should not know the differenceIptween an absolute and conditional promise; 1. d, indeed, at the time you mention, blame Mr.l aton, for I thought him justly blameable, inindering the lad to meet with you, and if I hadi sen in his place, I would have acted quite thewerse; but I did never say, that if you would-mne to Innerwick and employ me, that I wouldo all the way to Dumfries on such an errand, that’ what never so much as entered into my,w mughts. He answered, What were yourioughts I don’t pretend to know, but I can de-nd on my information these were your words ;lut I see you are in some disorder, I will wait<pon you when you have more presence of mind.; By this time we were at James Dickson’siclosure, below the church-yard ; and while I6was recollecting in my mind, if ever t had spot ehthese words he alledged, he broke off from methrough the church-yard, with greater violencethan any man on horseback is capable of, withsuch a singing and buzzing noise, as put me ingreater disorder than I was in all the time I was 1with him. I came to my house, and my wife'observed more than ordinary paleness in my coun- jjtenanee, and alledged that something ailed me.I called for a dram, and told her I was a littleuneasy. After I found myself a little refreshed,I went to my closet to meditate on this most as¬tonishing: adventure.Upon the 5th of March, 1722, being at Hare-head, baptizing the shepherd’s child, I came off.about sunsetting, and near Wm. White’s march,the Laird of Cool came up with me as formerly,and after his first salutation, bade me not beafraid. .1 told him I was not in the least afraid,in the name of GOD and Christ my Saviour,'that he would do me the least harm; for I knewthat he in whom I trusted, was stronger than allthey put together; and if any of them should at¬tempt to do, even to the horse that I ride upon,,as you have done to Doctor Menzie’s man, I havefree access to complain to my Lord and Master, |to the lash whose resentment you are liable us|jnow as before.T7rJ9JCool. You need not multiply words on thathead, for you are safe with me, and safer, if safercan be, than when I was alive.Ogil. Well then Cool, let me have a peace¬able and easy conversation with you for the timewe ride together j and give me some informationconcerning the affairs of the other world, for noman inclines to lose his time in conversing withthe dead, without hearing or learning somethinguseful.Cool. Well, Sir, I will satisfy you as far asI think proper and convenient* Let me knowwhat information you want.Ogil. May I then ask you, if you be in astate of happiness or not ?Cooh There are a great many things I cananswer, that the living are ignorant of.; there area great many things that, notwithstanding theadditional knowledge I have acquired since mydeath, I cannot answer; and there are a greatmany questions you may start, of which the lastis one* that I will not answer.Ogil. Then I know liowr to manage our con¬versation ; whatever I enquire of you, I see youcan easily shift me; to that I might profit moreby conversing with myself.Cool. You may try.Ogil. Well, then, what sort of a body is that9you appear in; and what sort of a horse is thatyou xide upon, which appears to be so full ofmetal ?Cool. You may depend upon it, it is not thesame body that I was witness to your marriage*n, nor in which I died, for that is in the graverotting; but it is such a body as serves me in amoment, for I can fly as fleet with it as my soulcan do without it; so that I can go to Dumfries,and return again, before you can ride twice thelength of your horse, nay, if I have a mind togo to London, or Jerusalem, or to the moon, ifyou please, I can perform all these journiesequally soon, for it costs me nothing but a thoughtor wish: for this body is as fleet as yoar thought,for in the moment of time you can turn yourthoughts on Rome, I can go there in person : andas for my horse, he is much like myself, for heis Andrew Johnston, my tenant, who died forty-eight hours before me.Ogil. So it seems when Andrew Johnstoninclines to ride, you must serve him in the qualityof an horse, as he does you now.Cool. You are mistaken.Ogil. I thought that all distinctions betweenmistresses and maids, lairds and tenants, had beendone away at death.9Cool. True it is, but you do not take up thematter.Ogil. This is one of the questions you won'tanswer.Cool. You are mistaken, for the question Ican answer, and after you may understand it.Ogil. Well then. Cool, have you never yeiappeared before God, nor received any sentencefrom him as a Judge.Cool. Never yet.Ogil. I know you was a scholar, Cool, and’tis generally believed there is a private judg¬ment, besides the general at the great day, theformer immediately after death.—Upon this heinterrupted me, arguing.Cool. No such thing, no such thing! Notrial, no trial till the great day! The heavenwhich good men enjoy after death, consists onlyin the serenity of their minds, and the satisfactionof a good conscience; and the certain hopes theyUave of eternal joy, when that day shall come.The punishment or hell of the wicked, immediate¬ly after death, consists in the stings of an awa¬kened conscience, and the terrors of facing thegreat Judge! and the sensible apprehensions ofeternal torments ensuing ! And this bears still adue proportion to the evils they did when living.So indeed the state of some good folks differ but10little in happiness from what they enjoyed in theworld, save only that they are free from the body,and the sins and sorrows that attended it. Onthe other hand, there are some who may be saidrather not to have been good, than that they arewicked ; while living, their state is not easily dis-inguished from that of the former ,* and underhat class comes a great herd of souls: a vastnumber of ignorant people, who have not muchminded the affairs of eternity, but at the sametime have lived in much indolence, ignoranceand innocence.().;il. 1 thought that their rejecting the termsof salvation offered, was sufficient ground forGod to punish them with eternal displeasure;and as to their ignorance, that could never excusethem, since they live in a place of the world,where the true knowledge of these things mighthave been easily attained.Cool. They never properly rejected the termsof salvation; they never, strictly speaking, re¬jected Christ; poor souls, they had as great aliking both to him and. heaven, as their gross im¬aginations were capable of; Impartial reasonmust make many allowances, as the stupidity oftheir parents, want of education, distance frompeople of good sense and knowledge, and the un¬interrupted applications they were obliged toIgive to their secular affairs for their daily bread,the impious treachery of they: pastors, who per¬suaded them, that if they were of such a partyall was well; and many other considerationswhich God, who is pure and perfect reason itself,will not overlook : these are npt so much under theload of divine displeasure, as they are out of hisgrace and favour; and you know it is one thingto. be discouraged, and quite another thing to be(persecuted with all the power and rage of an in-Cepsed earthly king, I assure you, mens’ faces;e not more various and different in the world,itjran their circumstances are after death.Ogil. I am loath to believe all that you haveisaid at this time, Cool, (but I will not disputeathqse matters with you) because some things youihave advanced seem to contradict the Scriptures,iwhich I shall always look upon as the infallibleiff ruth of God. For I find, in the parable of Divesnud Lazarus, that the one was immediately afterijkjeath carried up by the angels into Abraham’sbosom, and the other immediately thrust downto hell.Cool. Excuse me, Sir, that does nor con-i tradict one word that I have said, but you seemnot to understand the parable, whose only end is;o illustrate the truth, that a man be very happyind flourishing in this world, and wretched and13miserable in the next; and that a man may bemiserable in this world, and happy and gloriousin the next.Ogil. Be it so, Cool, I shall yield that pointto you, and pass to another, which has affordedme much speculation since our last encounter;and that is, How you came to know that I talk¬ed after the manner that I did concerning Mr.Paton, on the first Sabbath of February last.Was you present with me, but invisible? Heanswered very haughtily, No, Sir, I was not pre¬sent myself. I answered, I would not have youangry, Cool, I proposed this question for myown satisfaction, but if you don’t think proper toanswer, let it pass. After he had paused, withhis eyes on the ground, for three or four minutesof time at most, with some haste and seemingcheerfulness, says.Cool. Well, Sir, I will satisfy you in that Ipoint. You must know that there are sent fromheaven, angels to guard and comfort and to doother good services to good people, and even thespirits of good men departed are employed inthat errand.Ogil. And do you not think that every man :has a good angel ?Cool. No, but a great many particular menhave: there are but few houses of distinction■ i13—-iespecially, but what have at least one attendingthem; and from what you have already heard ofspirits, it is no difficult matter to understand howthey may be serviceable to each particular mem¬ber, though at different places at a great distance.Many are the good offices which the good angelsdo to them that fear God, though many timesthey are not sensible of it: and I know assuredly,that one powerful angel, or even an active cleversoul departed, may be sufficient for some villages;but for your great cities, such as London, Ed¬inburgh, or the like, there is one great angel,that has the superin tendance of the whole ; andthere are inferior angels, or souls departed, towhose particulars care such a man, of such a par¬ticular weight or business, is committed. Now,Sir, the kingdom of Satan does ape the kingdomof Christ as much in matters of politics, as canbe, well knowing that the court of wisdom is fromabove ; so that from thence are sent out mission¬aries in the same order. But because the king¬dom of Satan is much better replenished thanthe other, instead of one devil, there are in manyinstances two or three commissioned to attend aparticular family of influence and distinction.Ogil. I read that there are ten thousandtimes ten thousand of angels that wait upon God,and sing his praise and do his will, and I cannotm141understand how the good angels can be inferiorin number to the evil.Cool. Did not I say that whatever the num¬ber be, the spirits departed are employed in thesame business ; so that as to the number of ori¬ginal deities, whereof Satan is chief, I cannotdetermine, but you need not doubt but there aremore souls departed in that place, which in a loosesense you call hell, by almost an infinity, thanwhat are gone to that place, which in a like senseyou call heaven, which likewise are employed inthe same purpose ; and I can assure you that thereis as great a difference between angels, both goodand bad, as there is among- men. with respect totheir sense, knowledge, cunning, cleverness, andaction ; nay, which is more, the departed soulson both sides, out do severals, from their veryfirst departure, of the original angels. Thisyou will perhaps think a paradox, but is true.Ogil. I do not doubt it, but what is that tomy question, about which I am solicitous ?Cool. Take a little patience, Sir ; from whatI have said you might have understood me, ifyou had your thoughts about you ; but I shallexplain myself to you. Both the good and thebad angels have stated times of rendezvous, andthe principal angels, who have the charge eitherof towns, cities, or kingdoms, not to mention par-:dcular persons, rillages, and families, and all that's transacted in these several parts of the coun¬try, are there made open : and at their re-encoun¬ter on each side, every thing is told, as in yourparish, in milns, kilns, and smithies, with thisdifference that many things false are talked at|the living re-encounters, but nothing but whatis exact truth, is said or told among the dead;only I must observe to you, that, as I am credit-! | ably informed, several of the inferior bad angels,|tand souls of wicked men departed, have toldmany things that they have done, and thep whena more intelligent spirit is sent out upon enquiry,and the report of the former seeming doubtful,| he brings in a contrary report, and makes it ap-iji pear truth, the former fares very ill : nevertheless|i their regard to truth prevents it; for while they^ observe the truth, they do their business and1 keep their station, for God is truth,IOgil. So much truth being among the goodangels, I am apt to think that lies and falsehoodwill be as much in vogue among the bad.Cool. A gross mistake, and it is not alone themistake which the living folks fall under withrespect to the other world; for the case plainlyis this, an ill man will not stick at a falsehood topromote his design; as little will an evil soul de¬parted, stop at any thing that can make himself16successful; but in admitting report he must tell [ithe truth, or woe be to him. But besides theirmonthly, quarterly, or yearly meetings, or what- .ever they be, departed souls acquainted, may take >a trip to see one another yearly, weekly, daily,or oftener if they please. Thus then I answeryour question that you was so much concernedabout; for my information was from no less thanthree persons, viz. Aikman, who attends Thur¬ston’s family; James Corbet, who waits uponMr. Paton; for at that time he was then look¬ing after Mrs. Sarah Paton, who was at yourhouse; and an original emissary appointed towait upon yours.At this I was much surprised, and after a lit¬tle thinking, I asked him, And is there really,Cool, an emissary from hell, in whatever senseyou take it, that attends my family ?Cool. You may depend upon it.Ogil. And what do you think is his business ?Cool. To divert you from your duty, andcause you to do as many ill things as he can ; formuch depends on having the minister on theirside.Upon this I was struck with a sort of terror,which I cannot account for. In the mean timehe said several things I did not understand. Butafter coming to my former presence of mind, said.L ,,Ogil. But, Cool, tell me in earnest, if theret a devil that attends my family, though invis-,We.CooL Just as sure as you are breathing, butI not so much dejected upon this information,r I tell you likewise, that there is a good angel;io attends you, who is stronger than the other.Ogil. Are you sure of that, Cool ?Cool. Yes, there is one riding on your rightimd, who might as well have been elsewhere,r I meant you no harm.Ogil. And how long has he been with me ?Cool. Only since we passed Brand’s-lee, butow he is gone.| Ogil. We are just upon Elenscleugh, and 1esire to part with you, though perhaps I haveiiained more by conversation than I could haveHther wise done in a twelvemonth ; I choose rath-r to see you another time, when you’re at leisurend I wish it were at as great a distance fromnnerwick as you can.Cool. Be it so, Sir; but I hope you will be.s obliging to me, next re-encounter, as I have>een to you this.Ogil. I promise you I will, as far as is con-istent with my duty to my Lord and MasteiUhrist Jesus: and since you have obliged me soauch by information, I will answer all the ques-181 - •tions you propose, as far as consists with feyknowledge; but I believe you want no informa¬tion from me.Cool. I came not hereto be instructed byyou, but I want your help of ahother kind.Upon the 5th of April, 1722, as 1 was returh-.ing from Old Hamstocks, Cool came up with Ime on horseback at the foot of the ruinous iri- Jclosure, before we came to Dod; I told him his flast conversation had proved so acceptable to me, 1that I was w^ll pleased to see him again ; that |there was a number of things that I wanted toinform myself further of, if he would be so goodas satisfy me.Cool. Last time we met, I refused you noth¬ing you asked ; and now I expect that you shallrefuse me nothing that I shall ask.Ogil. Nothing, Sir, that is in my power, orthat I can do with safety to my reputation andcharacter. What then are your demands.Cool. All that I desire of you is, that as you fpromised that on a Sabbath day you would goto my wife, who now possesses all my effects, "and tell her the following particulars: and tellher in my name to rectify these matters. First,That I was owing justly to Provost Crosby, 501.Scots, and three years interest, but on hearing *of his death, my good-brother the Laird of C—1I and 1 forged a discharge, narrated the bond, the{ sum, and other particulars, with this honourable: clause, <s And at the time it had fallen by, andcould not be found.” With an obligation on theProvost’s part to deliver up this Bond as soon ashe could hit upon it. And this discharge wasdated three months before the Provost’s death.jAnd when his son and successor, Andrew Cros-I by, wrote to me concerning this Bond, I cameI to him and shewed him the forged discharge,|! which silenced him; so that I got up my bond« without more ado. And when I heard of Robert3. Kennedy’s death, with the same help of C—1, Ilij got a bill upon him for 1901. of which 1 got full1 and complete payment, C—1 got the half. Whent I was at Dumfries, the same day that RobertI Grier died, to whom I w’as owing an account ofI 361. C—1, my good-brother, was (hen at Lon-1 don, and not being able of myself, being but abad writer, to make out a discharge of the ac¬count, which I wanted, I met accidently withone Robert Boyd, a poor Writer lad in Dumfries ;1 took him to Mrs* Carnock’s, and gave him abottle of wine, and told him I had paid ThomasGrier’s account but had neglected to get a dis¬charge, and if he would help me to one I wouldreward him. He flew away from me in a greatpassion, saying, he would rather be hanged • butif I had a mind for thege things, I had betterwait till C—1 came home. This gave me greattrouble, fearing what C—1 and I had done for-merly was no secret. I followed Boyd to thestreet, and made an apology, saying, I was jest¬ing, commending him for his honesty, and gothis promise never to repeat what had passed. 1sent for my Cousin B—m H—rie, your good-brother, who with no difficulty, for a guinea anda half, undertook and performed all that I want¬ed ; and for a guinea more made me up a dischargefor 2001, Scots that I was owing to your father-in-law, and his friend Mr. Muirhead, which dis¬charge I gave to John Ewart, when he desiredthe money, and he at my desire, produced it toyou, which you sustained.A great many of the like instances were told,of which I cannot remember the persons namesand things; but, says he, what vexes me morethan all these, is the injustice I did Homer Max¬well, tenant to my Lord Nithsdale, for whom Iwas factor. I borrowed 20001. from him, 5001of which he borrowed from another hand : I gavehim my bond, and, for reasons I contrived, I ob¬liged him to secrecy. He died wjthin the year,and left nine children, his wife being dead beforehimself. I came to seal up his papers for myknd’s security ; his eldest daughter in treated meI to look through them all, and to give her an ac¬count what was their stock, and what was theirdebt. I very willingly undertook it, and in go¬ing through the papers, I put my own bond inmy pocket. His circumstances proving bad, hisnine children are now starving. These things 1desire you to represent to my wife, and take herbrother with you, and let them be immediately: rectified, for she has a sufficient fund to do it up¬on ; and if it were done. I think I would be easyand therefore I hope you will make no delay.After a short pause, I answered, Tis a gooderrand Cool, you are sending me to do justice toI the oppressed and injured; but notwithstandingI see myself come in for 2001. Scots, yet I bega little time to consider the matter. And sinceI find you are as much master of reason now asever, and more than ever, I will reason upon thematter in its general view, and then with respectto the expedi*ncy of my being the messenger;and this I will do with all manner of frankness.. From what you have said, I see clearly whatyour present condition is, so that I need not askany more questions on that head; and you needI not bid me take courage, for at this moment Iam no more afraid of you than a new born child.Cool. Well, say on.Ogil. Tell me then, since such is your ability22that you can fly a thousand raiies in the twinklingof an eye, if your desire to do the oppressed jus- |cice, be as great as you pretend, what’s the reas¬on you dont fly to the coifers of some rieli J e .ror Banker, where are thousands of gold and sil¬ver, invisibly left, and invisibly return it to thecoffers of the injured ? And since your wife hassufficient fund, and more, why cannot you emptyher purse invisibly, to make these people amends.Cool. Because I cannot.Ogil. You have satisfied me entirely uponthat head. But pray, Cool, what is the reasonthat you cannot go to your wife yourself, andtell her what you have a mind; I should thinkthis a more sure way to gain your point.Cool. Because I will not.Ogil. That is not an answer to me, Cool.Cool. That is one of the questions that I toldyou long ago I would not answer: but if you goas I desire, I promise to give you full satisfactionafter you have done your business. Trust mefor once, and believe me I will not disappointyou.Upon the 10th of April, 1722, coming fromOld Cambus, upon the post road, I met withCool on the head of the heath called the Pees.He asked me, if I had considered the matter hehad recommended ? I told him I had, and was in28?iie same opinion I was in when we parted; thatI would not possibly undertake his commissions,unless he eould give me them in writing underhis hand. I told him that the list of his grievan-ices were so great, that I could not possibly re¬member them without being put in writing; andthat I wanted nothing but reason to determineme in that, and all other affairs of my life—Iknow, says he, this is a mere evasion: but tellme if the Laird of Thurston will do it ? I am sure,said I, he will not: and if he should, I would doall that I could to hinder him; for I think he hasas little to do in these matters as myself. Buttell me, Cool, Is it not as easy to write your sto¬ry as tell it, or ride on what-do-ye-call-him ? forI have forgot your horse’s name.Cool. No, Sir, it is not; and perhaps I mayconvince you of the reasonableness of it after¬wards.Ogil. I would be glad to hear a reason thatis solid, for not speaking to your wife yourself,but, however, any rational creature may see whata fool I would make of myself, if I would go toDumfries, and tell your wife you had appearedto me, and told so many forgeries and villaniesthat you had commited, and that she behoved tomake reparation; the consequence might perhapsbe, that rhe would scold me; for she would beI24loath to part with any money she possesses, andtherefore tell me I was mad, or possibly pursueme for calumny; how would I vindicate myself,how could I prove that you ever spoke with me ?Mr. Paton, and other ministers, in Dumfrieswould tell me, the devil had spoken with me; andwhy should I repeat these things for truth, whichhe, that was a liar from the beginning, had toldme; C—p—1 and B—r H—rie would be uponme, and pursue me before the Commissary ; everybody would look upon me as brain-sick or mad *therefore I entreat you do not insist upon send¬ing me so ridiculous an errand. The reasonable¬ness of my demands I leave to your own consider¬ation, as you did your former to mine. But drop¬ping the matter till out next interview, give meleave to enter upon some more diverting subject:I do not know, Cool, but the information youhave given, may do as much service to mankind,as the redress of all these grievances would a-mount to.Mr. Ogilyie died very soon after.