Mother Bunch’s ClosetJS cucly Broke Open;containingRARE SECRETS of NATURE and ART,Tried a«d ExperiencedBy Learned Philosophers,And recommended to all ingenious young men andmaids, teaching them, in a natural way, how toget good wives and husbands.Approved by Several that have made trial of them;it being the product of forty-nine years study. -By our losing Friend Poor Tom, fir the King, a Ircerof Mirth, but a hater of Treason.IN TWO PARTS.GLASGOW:Published and Sold Wholesale and Retail, byR. Hutchison & Co. 10, Saltmarkct.1S17.4Mother Bunch's Closetwhich, if vou will keep my counsel, I am ready f<!teach thee. I will ;ruly, and if ycu will do so muchfor me, f shall thu;k myself much obligec!,'to youand if my foitunc 'proves right, I will make 'you i.mends. ^Why then I will tell you, in the first place, youmust observe St Agnes’ day, which is the 21st ojJanuary, aiyd on that day let no man salute, thee,'andaf night, before thdu goest to'bed, put on the bestclean shift thou hast, and when thou best dow n laythy right hand under thy head, and say these word,5,“ Mow the God of love send me my desires;’’ tKgjjjgo to-sleep as soon 'ai possible,'and vou shall be sun;to dream of-Inm who will be your husband,, andsethim stahd .before you, and may take notiye of hitt^and .his"completion; and if he offer to salute ,thet*.do not denv him,'but shew him as much fav ur aihou carut; but if he pffers to be uncivil, be sure tchold your legs together. And how, Daughter, thecouttstl h have ^b-eft y^u, be sure to tell'no body*Sb, fare you v eil, tirl t’sbe you again.I give you thr.r.ksior your .advice; but c-n^\hihcB.mor£ 1 Jrave to say, What is, your‘name ? and wherdo you Jive I11'1 Ivvllktefi you, DaughfeG my nShfie 1Mother Burbctf,1 rrtd f Jive, at a place called Bon?.adventure, whete, if you ccyile, I will make you weK .edme.Now MoTHtk Bunch having dt parted from th«inttkl, she fn-.t ttnpthfer pretty girl. " Coqd-mofybwMother Bunch. Good riaO’-rbw,. pr-etly maid, whither^fe-vou going.‘t us mdfhlirgGMcthinks you arj (very fine ic /ay. Pinbf Mother' BihichV ydu do no ;think so; N o, I cannot discommend you; for sucla brisk maid'as you should' go.handsorae, dr you wii1 aft, thoiiglt 'you think the tipijn^ver get a •sweetheart,long. No, ncr; blot lief; I atp fob young" ;are you?- I tub eighteen. Eighteenf fiiorHow olop I'knotnrmly Gi*.ke Open. ftthou thirikest -thou hast stayed lotsg enough, andwouldest as v/iilingly have a husband as another.Aye, Mother Bunch, but good husbands are hard tofind, especially for me, who have no skitt in clausin'?,or else it may be, i would be glad of a good husband.Be sure to take my advicea be wise in clausing, thatis to say, take no one that has got a red head, for besure he loveth a smock so well that he will scarce letais wife have a good one to her back; nor of yellowhair, as he is inclinable to be jealou ; nor a blackman, for he is dogged. Aye, but, Mother, if I mustnot have yellow, black, nor red, what colour musrdtake? Why, Daughter, I tell you, if he is jealous,you will be forced, by his speeches, to make it good,for how can a young woman forbear what she is al¬ways told of? And be sure, if he is jealous of thee,thou mayest well be so of him; for whores and thievesthink ill of each other, out hold a little, one thingmore I have to say to you, and that is', to take noticeof thy sweethearts when they come a wooing to thee,I mean of their civil behaviour; for if they swear,vow, and make great protestations, then have a careof thyself, for many words breed dissimulation; there¬fore have a care of such: but if a man come to theethat is sober and civil-behaved, there are hopes of hisproving a good man. Now, Mother, I will take myleave of you, giving you many thanks for your goodadvice; and so, farewell, till I see you again, ard Iintend to take this counsel.Another time Mother Bunch was in a little mea¬dow, not far from her house, on the 30th of April,before sun-rising. A handsome maid, seeing heralone, came to her, and said, Mother Bunch, good-morrow, how do you do? Pray what makes you a-broad so early in the morning? You seem to be ina deep study. Daughter, you say very tnfe; J amstudying who shall be my next husband, and if thou6Mother Bunch's Closetwilt but please to stay a little while, thou shalt see a'ipretty art, which thou never saw before, to teach]you how to know vour sweetheart. This is a pretty jart indeed; and I should be glad to know it.Hark! hark! Daughter, is not yonder the cuckoo jsinging? Yes, yes, and I have not heard her sing jithis year before now. Then, Daughter, sit down-rby me, but hold, Are you fasting? Yes. But has tno man kissed you? No. Then sit thee down by fme. 1 think the cuckoo is mad, what a life she Jcleads; I think she is a witch; but no matter; put offsthy right shoe and stocking, and let me look between (thy great toe and the next: Now, Daughter, see, this ihair is a long one; look well at it, and tell me what'tcolour it is. I think it is really yellow. The same :colour will thy husband’s hair be. But, Mother tBunch, I do not matter the colour so much as the iicondition. I will tell you his condition: he may fiprove surly enough, and perhaps make you do as you, !did not imagine: you must give him good words,and give him one good turn for another; but as tollthis, thou must keep it to thyself; it is an ill bird !that beshits its Qwn nest; kiss and tell is toul play.Mother Bunch, you make me smile, you talk somerrily. Come, Daughter, it is no great matter;;)merry talk does no harm, but drives the time away; jbut as for the deed doing 1 leave that to yourself.But hark! Daughter, I have had three husbands my¬self, and I think to have another; and do you think :I am so mad to tell him all I do? Then, my Daugh¬ter, I have another way to tell you who must beyour husband; I have proved it true; and it is th$best time of the year to try it, therefore, observewhat I say: Take a 'St. Thomas’ onion, pare it, andlay it on a clean handkerchief under your pillow'; put Ion a clean smock; and as you lie down, lay your arms jabroad, and say these words:17nctely Broke Open.Good St. Thomas, do me ri"ht,And bring rniplove to me this night,That / may view him in the face.And in my arms may him embrace.Then lying on thy back, with thy arms abroad, goo sleep as seen as you can, and in your first sleepmu shall dream of him who is to be your husband,md he will come and offer to kiss you;' do not hin-ier him, but catch him in thy arms, and strive tovoid him, for that is he. This I have tried, and itias proved true. Yet I have another pretty way for\ maid to know her sweetheart, which is as follows:Take a summer apple of the best fruit, stick pinsdose into the apple, to the head, and as you stickthem take notice which of them is the middlemost,and give it what name you fancy; put it into thy lefthand glove, and lay it under thy pdlow on Saturdaynight; after thou gettest into bed, them clap thyhands together, and say these words:If thou be he that must have meTo be thy wedded bride,Make no delay, but come away,This night to my bedside.And in thy sleep thou shall see him come in hisshirt, and if he offer thee any abuse, he will be greatwith another woman; but if he puts his hand overthee, be not afraid, for it is a sign he will prove a[good husband: and this is a good way for a youngman to know his sweetheart, giving the middlemostpin the name he fancies best, putting the apple inhis right hand glove, and laying it under his pillowwhen he is in bed, saying,If thou be she that must.have meIn wedlock for to join.Make no delay, but come awayUnto this bed of mine.• . fi Mather Bunch a Glosr lAnd that night he may see her, as if she came iji!her shift and petticoat, which is a sign she’will proyl ?a civil woman; but if she comes with her shift only;'she will prove a ranter, and so better lost than found l‘And now, daughter, the timie passes away, andmust be gone, and so bid you farewell. Mothe -Bunch, I give you many thanks for your good coun :sel, and intend to take your advice.Upon a time, Mother Bunch, being at a wed din dwhere young men and maids were met, who had ;mind for some discourse with her, one young massaid, Mother Bunch, we know you are a woman tha;has a’ judgment in many things, I pray tell my fontune. I cannot, tell fortunes, said she, > but thoUblinkest too much with one eye to be true to onrwoman. Aye, but, Mother, says another, what think ryou of me? Thou mayest come to marry a lacky, i;thou canst bur lay a great wager with her, three tdone; and if she lays with thee, thou wilt be verjlikely to win, fci: thou hast mettle in thee; but harda care she win not the odds, if she does thou anclean gone. So farewell.Now Mother Bunch took her leave; and goinghome, she met a maid going to a wedding. Hoddo you do, Mother? Thai.’k you, Daughter, whithesare you going? To the wedding, I believe; but harkyou, Mother, w ill you sit down a tittle, I hare some¬thing to say to you. What is it, Daughter? Whenshall I be married? Would you fain be married?Y"es, Mother, if I could get a good husband. Then*Daughter, I will tell you the best I can, if you willtake my advice. In the month of January are many1dafigercus days for thee to take notice of, these arethe first, second, third, fourth, and fifth; there area great many’ more; but if thou marriest on thesedavs, thy husband will cuckold thee, or thou wilt Hmake him one, or elsp you will soon be parted by |j9'Wcrfy Broh. Oycn.one means or other; but for all there be so niahybad days in this month 1 can teh you of one day■which is'lucky, and many young men and maids havea deal of heart’s eise on that day, or the day after,as I shall let you understand; it is the 21st, calledSf. Agnes’ day. This St. Agnes has a great favourfor young men and maids, and will bring to theirbedsides their sweethearts, if'they follow my rules:Upon this day you must be sure to keep a fast, andneither eat nor drink all that day, nor at night; nei¬ther let man, woman, no: child, kiss thee on thatday; and thou must be sure, when thou goeSt tobed, to put on a clean shift, -nd the best thou hast,and clean clothes on thy head, for St Agnes b- jsto see all clean when she comf>s; when thou bestdown, lie as straight as thou, const, and lay thy handsunder thy head, and say.Now, St. Airies, play thy part.And send to me my own sweetheart;And shew me such a happy bliss,This night of him to have a kiss.And be sure fall asleep as soon as you can, andbefore you awake put of your first sleep, you shallsee him come before you, and shall perceive by hishabit what tra lesman he is; and be sure thou declarenot thy dream unto any one in ten days and by thattime thou mayest see thy dr team come to pass. AHthis I have proved three times; for I have had threehusbands, and they all prove 1 tradesmen; the firstwas a straw joiner, the second a louse-trap maker,and the third a gentle craft, and he came to me withhis awl in his hand, and woull need's prick me, ay,l and did prick, but did not hurt me, and so I wakedout of my dream, and was never the worse; but Ithought the time long til! he came again, as all maidsdo that desire to be married. I know some maids10Mother Bunch’s Closetwould have a husband with the best conditions, an*:endowed with the best qualifications; nay they woulchave impossibilities: but I am afraid they will makjgood the old Proverb, that says,If you ’will not 'when you may.When you -would you shall have nay.Therefore take my advice, if a young man come:to you of a civil carriage, and you thiuk you can lov«<him, be not scornful to him, but give him a civil en¬tertainment, according to his behaviour: but be surdto hold your legs together, till the authority is sign¬ed, when you may open them as wide as you can.And as to young men, my advice is, they be wary:in their choice, since there is as much danger in chus :ing of a wife as a husband: wherefore, all young mentake my advice: chuse not one with a long nose, ,scolding brow, and thin lips, for in such there is greadanger: he who is tied to a scold is tied to sorrowchuse not one who is counted a slut, if she be a slutshe is idle also, and these two companions will brinjthee to povertv; nay, besides this, the old saying isA slut will poison the gout, and if you can’t eat wit!her, you won’t lie with her, and you must have :bedfellow somewhere.But this is the best way of clausing a wife: Taktone for love, not for riches which Hy away; for truilove never varies; and where that is, the blessing oGod is. If you desire to live a long life, be not overfond of riches, but chuse a civil handsome maidwho is not given to pride: such a maid may make <fine wife. But she that brings a handsome fortune,will be always throwing it in your teeth, which oftenocca ons great disturbances; therefore let this suf¬fice for those who desire to get good wives; and takenotice of what I have already said, and you may farethe better.11newly Broke -Open.And as for young maids, this is my advice, if theywill not try St. Agnes, let them be sure to chuse aclever man, who. is able to do his work; for if she befain to seek another to do that vyork, it may breedgreat dissension.THS END OF THE SECOND PART.The INTRODUCTIONTO THESECOND PART./VN Michaelmas day, Mother Bunch, sitting onthe bank of a river, joining to a neighbouring,grove, beheld the late flourishing branches in theirdecay, whose sapless leaves were falling to the earth;from which she began seriously to consider her ownmortality; and since time had hurried on the winterof her age, and covered her aged head with snowylocks. sh>- might expect, ere long, to fall, like theenfeebled leaves: Therefore, she resolved, as she hadbeen a kind friend to young men and maids, to givea further testimony of her regard before she left thisworld. For as her painful study, and strict observa¬tion had made a large improvement in her stock ofknowledge, she would not have it buried in the gravewith her, but leave it to posterity for the benefit ofyoung men and maids, whereby they might learn tounderstand their good and bad fortunes, and by thedirection- of this book, be thoroughly furnished withmany secret rarities, never before published to theworld.Accordingly, the next day she wrote letters of in¬vitation to the young men and maids, to repair toher house on St. Luke’s day: The maids site ap-12Mather Bunch's Closetpointed to meet in the morning, to be first instructed-and that for two reasonsj First, As she herself wasa woman, she would teach them Jfirst, lest the bat-chelors should be too hard for them before they haemlearned their lessons. Secondly, d hat young wo¬men should be first served in this, it being Horn-Fair-Day, many of the batchelors would be employedin the morning, in handing old citizen’s young wivesto the fair; and in the afternoon they might be atliberty, i bis was the determination of old MotherBunch.MOTHER BUNCH, <$r.TVJOW against the time appointed, old MotherBunch decked up her house neat and fine, andgetting up early in the morning, placed herself inthe closet, where her treasure lay.Nov/ the first that entered the room, was one Mar¬gery Loveman,. a maltster’s maid, who with a lowcourtsey, said, Good-morrow, Mother Bunch, I amcome to partake of vour bounty; for I hear you have1a second time opened ymur Golden Closet of Cur¬iosities for the benefit of ymung lovers. Yes,Daugh-:ter, quoth 'other. Bunch,- so I have, and thoushalt partake of the same: Here is infallible rulesand directions to guide you in all manner of love in¬trigues; also, how to know what sort of man youshall marry, and whither he will prove loving or not. ,Dear Mother, these are things I fain would know;for, believe me, I have many sweet hearts, and Iwillingly chuse the best, lest I should marry in hasteand rep&nt a* leisure. 5 Bis true, i have near a hun¬dred and fifty pounds to my portion, the great noiseof which, has brought many sweethearts: for I have4newly Broke Open. 13no less than five or six at this time; and, Mother, Iwould fain know which of then! comes for 16-ve ofme, and which of them for money..—Daughter, quoth.Mother Bunch, here is'an experiment, if you willbut try, it will make a clear discovery of the realityof their love.— Let a report be spread, that thou hastlately been robbed of all that thou hast, b*’th moneyand apparel: Now, if after this, there is one of themthat continues his love as before, you may be verycertain that he is faithful; but, be sur^ that vou keepthis counsel to yourself, that the secret be not dis¬covered. I will take care of that, dear Mother,quoth Margery, and I heartily thank v ou for thiskind and seasonable advice.Good-morrow, Daughter, s/re reply1 d.Young men are false and must he try’d.She was no sooner gone, but in comes Mrs Susan,a young sempstress from Salisbury, with sorrowfullamentation, weeping, and ^ringing her hands- LLwnow! quoth good Mother Bunch, what is the mat¬ter with you, Daughter, that you go on at this rate?Alas! Mother Bunch, quoth Susan, my my my my my my ! What my? said?Mother Bunch. Quoth sobbing Susan, my sorrowsare more than I am able to bear; /or Mother, dear'Frank the fidler, my old love,-and l. are fallen out,and he swears he will not have me: Come, Daughter,quoth Mother Bunch, be of good comfort, for I willput thee in an effectual way to find, wlaither Frankthe fidler be really angry with thee or not; and ifhe be, 1 will teach thee infallibly how to obtain -his'favour again. “ She that is afraid of every grass*must not think to piss in a meadow ” Let your an¬gry love but alone for a season, and he will soon•come to himself agam; for I know that love is a punydarling, and wants very frequently to be humoured.TheretOre let him alone, in time he will forget his14Mother Bunch's Closetanger, and return to thee again, if he lias any prin¬ciple, good nature, or loyal love in him; and if not,you. had better be without him, than during yourwhole life, to be tied to so sour an apple tree. Re¬member the old Proverb, “ Set thy stool in the sun^if a knave goes, an honest man may come.” I hopethou-hast not been playing the Wanton Wagtail withhim, hast thou? No indeed, dear Mother Bunch,but yet, I must needs confess that he fain would haveplaved a lesson on my Lute last market-day, but.]would not let him; and that was the cause of our fall¬ing out. Savest thou so, Daughter? Why, then liwill tell thee, that since he found thou withstood hiatemptations, with so much resolution, take my wordfor ir, he will never forget thee. Well, dear Mo-ithen, quoth young Susan, your words have beencomfortable to me; and when 1 find the good effects,I will return and give you an account of it. And sofarewell, dear Mother, for the present.Right happy. Daughter, may you be,In guarding your Virginity.The next that entered the room, was Margery;the Malster’s maid, who, after making a very lowcourtsey, and givi .g Mother Bunch the time of thejday, desiring to know for what reason she sent herthat letter? Why, says the old woman, to the end ithat I might reveal to you some secrets relating tolove, which I have never discovered to the world..But, dear Mother Bunch, quoth Margery, I am ameer stranger to love, for 1 never in my life knewwhat it meant. That may be, quoth Mother Bunch;yet you know not how soon you m< y receive the ar¬rows of Cupid, then you would be glad of some ofmy advice, for I know' by myself, that the best Vir¬gin of you all, at one time or other, has a desire toknow what it is to lie with a man. Quoth Margery,15ne^xhj liroJcc Open.you talk merrily, Mother Bunch. Well, Daughter,quoth Mother Bunch, you may term it as you j lease;but I will. ppeal to your own conscience, whether orno you would be glad, with all your heart, of a kindand loving husband.Dear Mother, quoth Margery, you come quiteclose to the matter; and if l may be so free as tospeak my own mind, I could willingly embrace sucha one; f;<r though housekeeping is said, to be verychargeable often, yet on tlv* other hand, a marriedstate is honourable. Thou sayest well, Dauglver,quoth Mother Bunch, and if thou hast a mind to seethe man whom thou shah marry, then follow strictlymy directions, and you shall nor fail of vour desire.Let me see—this is St Luke’s day, which I havefound by long study, to be of greater use to thatpurpose, than that of the celebrated St. Agnes', whichI formerly recommended you to; and the ingredientsnow to be used, are of a quite different and finerquality, and far more excellent for performing the.same.Now I would have you take some marigold flow¬ers, a large sprig of sweet marjoram, a sprig of freshthyme, and a small quantity of wormwood; dry thesetogether before the fire, till you may rub them to apowder ; then sift the same thro’ a piece of fine lawn:This being dope, take a small quantity of virginhoney, and right white-wine vinegar, and simmerthem together in a new earthen poringer, over amild and gentle fire; all which beirtg done, anointyour breasts and slprnach,, and lips, likewise, withthe same, just the moment you are lying down inyour bed; always remembering, to repeat these wordsthree times.S7. LuJ;e,^St. Luke, he kind to me,And let me now my true love see.16Mother bunch's ClosetTliis said, hasten to sleep with all speed j then inthe soft slumber of your night’s repose, the very*man you are to marry shall appear before you walk¬ing to and fro, near to your bedside, very plain andivisible to be seen: you shall perfectly behold the co-ilour of his hair, his visage, stature, and deportment:,And if he be one that will prove faithful, he will ap¬proach you with a smile, and offer to salute you;-which, when he does, do not serm to be over fond,or peevishly fro ward, but receive the same with abecoming mild and modest blush: Now if he be onethat will, after marriage, forsake thy bed to wanderafter strange women, then will he offer to be rude;and uncivil with thee, at which time, thou shalt liftup thy hand to smite him; so doing, it will go wellwith thee and thy Guardian ngel will keep theeever safe; Daughter these are rarities which I neverbefore devulged. D t but put this in execution, and.I a,a ?fertain it will answer the desired effect. Xmust needs thank you for your love quoth Margery;,and so farewell, Mother Bunch. Good-by, Dau¬ghter, she replied. ^Let joy and pleasure crown your days,And a kind man y w fortu e raise.The next that appeared, was Kate the cloth-wor¬ker’s Daughter; then Doll the dairy-maid, Joan,Bridget, Nancy, and Phillis in number about fortytogether; each of them crying out with a loud voice,Dear Mother Bunch, remember me; O'rememberme, quoth another; and so did they all, till 'hey-made the poor old woman’s ears deal with the clam-;orous noise. My dear Daughters, quoth MotherBunch, siqyou all tfown and be quiet, for there isnever a one amongst you, but will partake of mybounty. Daughters, I will sit in' the midst of you,where X shall read ov^r a very interesting lecture.17nes:ly Broke Open.My real motive is to give you a full account of somerare and excellent curiosities, in my Golden Closet,newly broke open; declaring that it is my opinion,that those things which are profitable to one maid,may not be prejudicial, in any respect, to another,and this I shall begin.First, If any of you here desire to know the nameof the man whom you shall marry, let her seek inthe summer time, for a green peasecod, in which 1there are nine pease; when you have done this, eitherwrite, or cause to be written on a slip of paper, these.words:Borne in, my dear.And never fear*Writing which, you must carefully close withinthe aforesaid peasecod, and lay the same under thethreshold of the. door, and then observe the nextman’that comes into the house; for you shall cer¬tainly be married to one of the same nameSecondly, She that desires to be satisfied whethershe shall enjoy the vaan desired or no, let her taketwo lemon-peels in the morning, and wear them allthe day under her arm-pit, then at'night let her notfail to take them, and rub the four posts of the bedwith the same; which being done, in your first sleep,he will seem to come aad present you with a couple 'of choice lemons, if not, there is no hope.Thirdly She that is desirous to know what man¬ner of fortune she shall marry^ whether a gentleman,a tradesman, or a traveller, the experiment is thus:Take a walnut, a haselnut, and a nutmeg, crack the| two nuts, and take off the scurf, peel them clear fromj the kernels, and grate part or the nutmeg to them;tins being done, bryise the kernels of the huts, andmix.them with butter and sugar, making them upinto peels, which are to be taken just, when you arei 8Mother Bunch's ClosetJyirg down in your bed: then if your fortune be to ■marry a gentleman, your sleep will be filled withfine golden dreams variety of sweet music, andmany running footmen; if a tradesman, great noise .?• tu-oul s; if a traveller (who is a seaman) thenfrighful visions of lightening and roaring thunderwiu disturb your sleep. This has been often tried,,and as often approved.Fourthy, St. Agnes’s day I have not wholly blot¬ted out of my book; No, but I h ■ ve found a moreexact way of trial than before: You shall not needto abstain from kisses, nor he forced to keep a fastfrom a glance of your love in the night- If you canrise to be at the parish church-door, punctually be- jtwixt the hours of twelve and one in the morning,and then and there, put only the fore-finger of yourright hand into the key-hole of the said door, re- 1peating the following words, three times over:O sweet St. Agnes, now draw near,With my true love, let him‘appear.Then he will straight approach to you with achearful and smiling countenance. This is a new ,and infallible way of making the trial.Fifthly, My dear Daughters, you all know thethirteenth day of February is Valentine’s Day, atwhich time the fowls of the air couple together, andnot only so, but the young men and maidens are forclausing mates at the same time. Now, that you maVspeed to your full satisfaction, follow this approveddirection: Take five bay leaves, lay one under everycorner of your pillow, and the fifth under the mid¬dle, then laying yourself down to rest, repeat thefollowing words in the four lines, seven times oyer:rjSome Guardian Angel let me have.What I most earnestly do crave,19newly Broke Open.A Valentine endow'd with Love,Which will both kind and constant prove.Tiien to your great content, you shall either havethe Valentine of him you desire, or, at least, oremuch more excellent.Sixthly, the experiment of the mid-summer smock,Found in a better manner than before, by my pain-%Iful study in Philosophy. And now, Daughters,iquoth she, take particular notice, for it is thus: Letbeven of you together, on a mid-suanmer eve, exactly6t the sun’s setting, go silently into some garden,and gather each of you a spri of red sage, then re¬turn to some private room, prepared particularly forthat purpose, with a stool placed in the middle, eachone of you having a clean smock, turned the wrongiside outwards, hanging upon a line across the room,(then let every one lay her sprig of red sage on aclean plate of rose-water set on a stool; which done,place yourselves in a row, where continue till twelveor one o’clock, saying nothing, whatever you see,for after midnight, each one’s sweetheart or husband,that shall be, will take each maid’s sprig out of therose-water, and sprinkle his love’s smoek, and thosewho are so unfortunate as never to be married, their[sprigs shall not be moved; and in consequence here-iof, many sobs and heavy sighs will be heard. Thishas been very often tried in our own country, andmever failed of the desired effect.These things I have found out of late,To male young lovers fortunate.And now, my dear Daughters, I have but a fewmore words to say at this time, and they are by wayof caution: In the twelve months, I find tibove oneand thirty very unfortunate days; and therefore, asyou regard the future happiness of your lives, take20Mother Bunch'& Closetcare that you do not enter into wedlock upon tho^days. Now, for your better instruction, I’ll tell yotwhich they be.In January, there are four; the 7th, 16th, 17th;and 18th.February hath two; the 5th, and 10th.»March hath three; the 9th, 10th, and 21st., April hath two; the 6th and 7th.May hath two; the 4>ih and 13th.June hath three; the 7th, the 9th, and 10th.Julv hath two; jthe 9th. and 17th.August hath two; the 11th and 15th.-Seotember hath three; the 2d, the 3d, and 4th.October hath three; the 4th, the 14rh, and 15lhjNovember hath two; the 5th and 24th.December hath three; the 6th, the 7th, and 9thObserve my rules for all these days,And then you mil your fortune raise.This said. Old Mother Bunch presented theirwith a cup of her fine cordial water, and so dismissedthem; and the^ybung damsels, withreturned her their hearty thanks.After Mother Bunch had done dinner, the youngmen came, to wit, 'l oin the miller, Ralph,the thatch*er, and Robin the ploughman, with a great numbeiof other trades and callings, all whom Mother Runcbinvited to sit down, that she might deliver her whole¬some counsels to them.And first she begins with Tom the miller, sayingAh, Tom ! thou art a sad wild young fellow; thereis not a maid that can come to the mill, but thoiwill be fooling with them, gi- ing the poor lasses sljbobs under their aprons; but take my word for it, i?*you do not leave off in time, you will certainly spoi|(jall your fortune: What woman po you think, havfing a portion, will have such a one ? She may justl;rapturous hearts;21- ‘ncxxty Broke Open.conclude, that you will-xtul run a cat ter wauling afteryoung wenches, and leave-her to sigh and weep, forwant of the comforts of matrimony, you know'w:hat I mean, Tom. ~^ Yes, yes, Mother, quoth Tom, but sure you donot take me for such a one. Yes, Tom, I do, andam seldom mistaker. It is you millers, that fill thecountry so full of crack’d maidenheads, that whenbn honest husband comes to take possession, he findsthe ground tilled before he comes with his plow.But farewell, Til have no more to say to such a fel¬low as you.Then turning to Ralph the thatcher, she said, Ifind you are vety desirous of a wife, and'your am¬bition is such, that'she must be rich, young, and(beautiful: cannot you content yourself with honestJoan, to whom you gave promise of marriage, andnew I find you have a mine! to leave her, which ifycu do, and obtain such a one as you desire, I cantell you what will follow: She won’t stand picking-tef straws with you, her fair face will find many |ifrierds in a corner, and you may chance to be z’(cuckold, and indeed btit justly served in your kind;,and therefore, I advise you to return to your oldJove for she is a very honest girl, and therefore far(more fit for you, than such a gay butterfly as youjhav.; lately followed.Then she stretched forth her hand to Robin theploughman, saying, Thou art an honest fellow, andgood fortune will always attend thee; I mean notbags of gold, nor heaps of jfilvor; but thou shalt havel.a careful and industrious wife, one that will ever beifvilhng and ready to labour, a true and a faithfulyoke-mate, and one that will be a cheerful partnerin thy ve^l and woe, to comfor and support TeeUnder the'’greatest and most severe trials.* For. asthe Poet has it, ’24?. . Mother Bunch's Closet, Sj-c.Which continue the whole time you go round: an!the ninth time the person you are to marry wiimeet you with a scabbard and so kiss you: if,not,bell as before.Another, called. The Dutch Cake.Three, four, or more of you must make a cake chour and salt, (no matter of what flour) and some ceach of your own water; make your cake broad, aneach ef you set the two first letters of your namwith a pin, but leave such a distance that it may licut; then set it before the fire, but speak net onword. Turn it each of you once; and the per-oito be your husband, will cut cut your name; thethe next unto the last. If there be any who hearbell, I wish I hall them for .my bedfellow, to prevettheir leading apes in hell.Another JVay.The first Change of'the blew Mcon on the NeYear, the fibst time you see it, hold*ycur hands «cross, s4yhig ffifs three times,TTcta Moon, NiioMdon, Tpray thee',Tell me this ni&ht who my true love will, he.Then go fo.beil yvi^put speaking a word, &nd ydwill certainly' dream .of the person .you shall marry IAnother Way, experienced often.Young men and maids may take some rosemarflowers, bay leaves, a lilt le thyore, sweet marjora;and southernwood, make these, into powder, anjwith barley Sour make a cake, but do not bake iLay this under your .head any Friday night; andlyop dream of.fnusicr you will wed thesb you destiin a short tune; it of the sea or ships, you wjil tfMjfirst; if of a.churc.t, ymi must be contented>9 dsingle.FIN