T tit.HIS TO li IGF THEDEVIL,Ancient and Modern.CONTAININGA STATEOFTHEDEVIL’S CIRCUMSTANCES,FROM HIS EXPULSION OUT OF HEAVEN,TO THE CREATION; WITH REMARKS<ON THE SEVERAL MISTAKES CON-CERNING HIS FALL.Rad as he is, the Devil may lie abus’d.Be falsely charg’d, and causelessly accus’dWhen men, unwillingly to be blam’d alone,Shift oft' those crimes on him which are their own.AYR:Ih inted and Sold by D. Macarter & CctTHEHISTORY' OF THEDEVIL.THE subject of this work is singular, and ithas been handled after a singular manner : thewise part of the world has been pleased with it,the merry part has been diverted with it, andthe ignorant part has been taught by it; nonebut the malicious part of the world has beenoffended at; who can wonder then, that whenthe Devil is not pleased, his friends should beangry ?The strangest thing of all is, to hear Satancomplain that the story is handled profanely ;but who can think it strange, that his advo¬cates should be what he was from the begin¬ning?It is evident the Devil, as subtile and asfrightful as he is, has acted the ridiculous andfoolish part, and much as most of God’s crea¬tures, and daily does so. And he cannot be¬lieve it is any sin to expose him for a foolishDevil, as he is, or shew him to the world thathe may be laughed at.Those who think the subject not handledwith gravity enough, have all the room given3fbem in the world to handle-it better; ^nd a-I he author professes he is far from thinking his)iece perfect, they ought not to be angry, thatle gives them leave to mend it,I doubt not but the title of this book will a-imuse some of my reading friends a little at first;hey will make a pause, perhaps, as they do attwitch’s prayer, and be some time a resolvinghether they had best look into it or no, leasthey should really raise the Devjl, by readinghis story. VChddren and old women have told themselvesJo many frightful things of the Devil, and havefirmed ideas of him in their minds, in so manyhorrible and monstrous shapes, that really itiras enough to fright the Devil himself to meetiiimself in the dark, dressed up in the several,jigures which imagination has-formed for hima the minds of men ; and, as for themselves,| cannot think by any means that the Devilwould terrify them half so much, if they wouldj:onverse face to face with him.I It must therefore be a most useful under-hking, to give the true history of this tyranti f the air, this god of this world, this terrorind aversion of mankind, which we call Devil:o shew what he is, and what he is mot; whereie is, and where he is not; when he is in us, andwhen he is not; for I cannot doubt but thati;he Devil is really, and bona Jide<, in a greatmany of our honest weak headed friends, w henSiey themselves know nothing of the matter.\ Nor is the work so difficult as some may-l&Vue* The devil’s history is not so hardo come at, as it seems to be ; his original andhe first rise of his family is upon record ; andis for his conduct, he has acted indeed in the4■dark, as" lo his method, in many things ; bufcin general, as cunning as he is, he has beei^fool enough to expose himself in some of themost considerable transactions of his life, andhas not shewn himself a politician at all. Ourold friend Machiavelo utdid him in many things,and I may in the process of this work .give anaccount of several of the sons of Adam, andsome societies of them too, who have outwit¬ted the Devii, nay, who have out sinned theDevil, and that 1 think may be called out-shooting him in his own bow.It may perhaps be expected of me in thishistory, that since I seem inclined to speak fa¬vourably of Satan* to do him justice, andto write his story impartially, I should takesome pains to tell you what religion he isof; and even this part may not be so much ajest, as at first sight you‘may take it to be; forSatan has something of religion in him, I as¬sure you ; nor is he such an unprofitable Devilthat way as some may suppose him to be ; forthough, in reverence, to my brethren, I willnot reckon him among the clergy ; ho, not somuch as a gifted brother ; yet I cannot denybut that he often preaches, and if it be notprofitable to his hearers, it is as much theirfault, as it is out of his design.But to speak to the point, and a nice pointit is I acknowledge ; namely, what’religion theDevil is of; thy answer will indeed be general,yet not at all ambiguous ; for I love to speakpositively, and with undoubted evidence.I. He is a believer. And if in saying so itshould follow that even the Devil has morereligion than some of bur men of fame canat this time be charged with, I hope mysLori —. and his Grace the of T;and some of the upper class in the red hotclub, will not wear the coat, however well itmay fit to their shapes ; or challenge the sa¬tire, as if it were pointed at them, becauseI . it is due to them.: In a word, whatever theirLordships are, I can assure them that theDevil is no infidel.2. He fears God. We have such abundant e-vidence of this in sacred history, that if Iwere not at present, in common with a fewothers, talking to an infidel sort of gentle¬men, with whom these remote things ealiedScriptures are not allowed in evidence, Imight say it was sufficiently proved ; but Idoubt not in the process of this undertakingto shew, that the Devil really fears God, andthat after another manner than ever he fear¬ed Saint Frances or Saint Dunstan; and if|i that be proved, as I take upon me to advance,'I shall leave it to judgment, who is the bet¬ter christain, the Devil who believes andtrembles, or our modern gentry of —* ,who believe neither God nor Devil.Having thus brought the devil within the:| paie, I shall leave him among you for the pte-1 ; not hut, that I may examine in its order,M who has the best claim to his brotherhood, theI Papists or the Protestants ; and among the lat-| ter the Lutherans or the Calvinists: and so des-Icending to all the several demonstrations ofII the churches, see who has less of the devil in| them, and who more; and whether less or more,ijjthe Devil has not a seat in every synagogue, ai pew in every church, a place in every pulpit,and a vote in every synod ; even from the san¬hedrim of the Jews, to our friends at tire Bullstti Mouth, tcC. from the greatest to the least.As to his propagating religion, it is. a littlehard indeed at first sight; For example.I think it no injury at all to the Devil, toBay that he had a great hand in the old holysvar, as it was ignorantly and enthusiasticallycalled ; stirring up the Christian princes andpowers of Europe to run a mading after theTurks and Saracensj and make war with thoseinnocent people above a thousand miles off, on¬ly because they entered into God’s heritage• when he had forsaken it; grazed upon hisground when he had fairly turned itintoa com¬mon. and laid open for the next comer ; spend¬ing their nation’s treasure, and embarking theirKings and people (I say) in a war above a thou¬sand miles off, filling their heads with that re¬ligious madness, called in those days, HolyZeal, to recover the Terra the sepul¬chres of Christ and the saints, and as they calk’dfalsely the Holy City, though true religion saysit was the accursed city, and not worth spend¬ing one drop of blood for.This religious bubble was certainly of Satan,who, as he craftily drew them in, so like a truedevil, he left them in the lurch when they camethere, faced about to the Saracens, animatedthe immortal Sladin against them, :uid manag¬ed so dextrously, that he left the bones of a-bout thirteen or fourteen hundred thousandChristians there, as a trophy of his infernal po¬litics : And after the Christian world had runal a sanie terra, or in English, a sauntering a-bout a hundred years, he dropt it to play ano¬ther game less foolish, but ten times more wick¬ed than that which went before it : namely,turning the crusadoes of the Christians one1against another; and, as Hudibrass said innother case,“ Mak« them fight like mad or drunk,41 For Dame Religion, as for punk.”Of this you have a complete account in thehistory of the Popes decrees against the Countde Tlioulouse, and the Waldenses and Albig-ences, with the crusadoes and massacres, which; followed upon them; wherein, to do the Devil’spolitics some justice, he met with all the suc¬cess he could desire. The zealots of that dayexecuted his infernal orders most punctually,and planted religion in those countries in a| glorious and triumphant manner, upon the des-ti action of an infinite number of innocent peo-| pie, whose blood has fattened the soil for theI growth of the Catholic faith, in a manner very| particular, and to satan’s full satisfaction.. 1 might, to complete this part of thabi-story,I give you the detail of his progress in these firststeps-of his alliances with Rome, and add a listi of massacres, wars, and expeditions m behalfII of religion, which he had the honour to have avisible hand in ; such as tlre.Parisian ihassacre,I the Flemish war under the Duke d’Alva, the| Smithfield fires in the Marian days in England,I' ar*d the massacres in Ireland. And even^some| old women, within these 20 years, thought heI lent a little help among the Catholics and thej Oyange boys, when they met at fairs; someI think he was not far from the seat of war on« the Continent of Europe ; and he has puffed uphis Holiness the Pope, to issued a Bull, againstBritish and Foreign Bible Societies, and thosepersons, noble or ignoble, who are found8countenancing tli&i unjust translation—evident¬ly intended to spread divison in the Church ofRome.But the greatest piece of management whichwe find the Devil has concerned iumself in oflate, in the matter of reh’gion, seems to be thatof the mission into China ; and here indeed Sa¬tan has acted his masterpiece. It was, no, doubt, much for his service, that the Chineseshould'Tiave no insight into matters of religion,I mean that we call Christian ; and therefore,though Popery and the Devil are not at so much* variance as some may imagine, yet he did notthink it safe to let. the general system, of Chris¬tianity be heard of among them in China,Hence, when the name of the Christian religionhad but been received with some seeming ap¬probation, in the country of Japan, Satan im¬mediately, as if alarmed at the thing, and dread-, ing what the consequence of it might be, arm¬ed the Japanese against it with such fury, thatthey expelled it at once.It was much safer to his designs, when, if thestory be not a fiction, he puts that Dutch wit¬ticism into the mouths of the. State command¬ers, when they came to Japan ; ,who. havingmore wit than to own themselves Christians insuch a place as that, when the question was putto them, answered negatively, that they werenot; but that they were of another religion,called Hollanders.However, it seems the Jesuits outwitted theDevil in China, and, as I said above, overshothim in his own bow; for the mission being indanger, by the Devil and the Chinese Emper¬ors joining together, of being wholly expelledthere too, as they had been in Japan, they cun-ningly fell in with tlie ecclesiastics of the conn*try, and joining the priestcraft of both religionslogeiuei, uiey orougnt Jesus cniist and Con¬fucius to be so reconcilable, that the Chinese:md Roman Idolatry, appeared capable* of aconfederacy, of going on hand in hand together;and consequently of being very good friends.This was a masterpiece indeed, and, as theysay, almost frightened Satan out of his wits;but he, being a ready manager, and particularlyfamous for serving himself of the rogueries of’the priests, faced about immediately to the mis¬sion, and making a virtue of necessity, claptin, with all possible alacrity, with the propos¬al; so the Jesuits and he formed a botch potchof religion, made up of Popery and Paganism,and calculated to leave the latter rather worsethan they Found it, blending the faith of Christand the Philosophy or morals of Confucius to-Igether,- and formally christening them by thename of religion ; by which means the politicinterest of the mission was preserved and yetSatan lost not one inch of ground with theChinese, no, not by the planting the gospel it¬self, such as it was among them.The influence the Devil has in the politics ofmankind, is another especial part of his historyand would require, if it were possible, a veryexact description ; but here we shall be neces¬sarily obliged to inquire so nicely into, the ar¬cana of circumstances, and unlock the cabinetsof state in so many courts canvass the councilsof ministers, and the conduct of princes so ful¬ly, and expose them so much, that it may per-haps make a combustion among the great po¬liticians abroad ; and in doing that, we maycome so near home, too, that though personalsafety and prudentials forbid our meddling’witK mil* r»Tir»-» -«-«» To-o t cv 1- • Jdouble intendre, and fall unpitied, for beingOnly suspected of touching truths that are. sotender, whether we are guilty or no. On theseaccounts, I must meddle the less with that part,at least for the present.Be it that the Devil has had a share in someof the late councils of Europe, influencing themthis way or that way, to his own advantage :—What is it to us? For example. What if hehad any concern in the affair of Thorn? or inthe late councils held at Vienna, placing on the ithrones of France and Spain, those whose pro¬fession is eternal hatred to the protestants ?—Or placing his Holiness the Pope and the In¬quisition in full powers? What is it to us iFhe influenced Ferdinand of Spain to embroidera petty coat to the Virgin Mary ?It occurs next to inquire from the premises,Whether die Devil has more influence or lessin the affairs of the world now than he had, informer ages ? and this will depend upon com¬paring, as we go along, his methods and wayof working in past times, and the modern po¬litics by which he acts in our days, with thedifferent reception which he has met with a-mong the men of such distant ages.But there is so much to enquire of about theDevil, before, wre can bring his story down to ourmodern times, that we must for the present letthem drop, and look a little back to the re-,mote parts of this history ? drawing his pictgrcvthat people may know him when they met him,and see who and what he is, and wli.it he hasbeen doing ever since he got leave to act inthe high station he now appear? in.Were Satan to be brought under the leastobligation to write truth, and that the mattersof fact which he should write might be depend¬ed upon, he is certainly qualified by his know¬ledge of things to be a complete historian ; norcould the bishop himself, who, by the way, hasgiven us already the Devil of an history, comeup to him ; Milton’s Pandaemonium, thoughan excellent dramatic performance, would ap¬pear a mere trifling singsong business, beneaththe dignity of Chevy chase ; the Devil couldgive us a true account of all tlie civil wars inheaven ; how, and by whom, and in what man¬ner, he lost the day there, and was obliged toquit the field : the fiction of his refusing toacknowledge and submit to the Messiah, uponhis being declared generalissimo of the heaven¬ly forces, which Satan expected himself, as theeldest officer ; and his not being able to brookanother to be put in over bis head ; and I say,that fine spun thought of Mr, Milton would ap¬pear to be strained too far, and only serve toconvince us that he (Milton) knew nothing ofthe matter. Satan knows very well that theMessiah was not declared to be the son of Godwith power, till by and after the resurrectionfrom the dead ; and all that power was thengiven him in heaven and earth, and not before;so that Satan’s rebellion must derive from o-ther causes, and upon other occasions, as hehimself can doubtless give us an account if hethinks fit, and'of which we shall speak furtherin this work.He could give us a true relation how hewheeled the people of the next world into theabsurd, ridiculous undertaking of building aBabel ; how far that stupendous stair caste12which was in imagination to reach ap to hea¬ven, was carried before it was interrupted, andthe builders confounded ; how their speechwas altered, how many tongues it was dividedinto; or whether they were divided at.all; andhow many subdivisions or dialects have beensince that, by which means very few of God’screatures, except the brutes, understand one-another, or care one farthing whether they door no.In all these things, Satan who no doubtwould make a very good chronologist, couldsettle every epochs, correct every calendar,and bring all our accounts of time to a generalagreement; as well as the Grecian Olyfnpiades,the Turkish Heghira, the Chinese fictitious ac¬count of the world’s duration, as our blindJulian and Gregorgian accounts, which haveput the world to this day, into such confusion,that we neither agree in our holy days or work¬ing days or feasts, nor keep the same Sabbathsin any part of the same globe.The glorious figure which Satan is supposedto make among the thrones and. dominions inheaven, is such as we might dispose the high¬est angeWn that exalted train could make.Hence that notion (and not ill founded) ;namely that the first cause of his disgrace, andon which ensued his rebellion, was occasionedupon God’s proclaiming his son generalissimo,and with himself supreme ruler in heaven :giving the dominions of all his works of crea¬tion, as well already finished, as not then begun,to him ; which post of honour (say they) Satanexpected to be conferred on himself, as nextin honour, majesty and power, to God the su¬preme.13Now, as we go to the Scripture for much ofhis history, so we must go there also for someof his names; and as he has a great variety ofnames indeed, as his several mischevious doingsguide us to conceive of him. The truth is ; allthe ancient names given him, of which theScripture is full, seem to be originals derived1 from, and adapted to the several steps he hastaken, and the several shapes he has appeared-in, to do mischiefs in the world.Here he is called the Serpent, Gen. in. 1.—The old Serpent, Rev. xii. 9.—The great Red, Dragon, Rev. xii. 3.—The Accuser of the Bre¬thren, Rev. xii. 10.—The enemy, Matth. xiii.39—Satan, Job i. Zech. in. i, 2.—-Belial, 2Cor. vi. 15—Beizebub, Matth. xii. Mam¬mon, Matth. vi. 24%—The Angel of Light, 2Cor. xi. 14-.—The Angel of the Bottomless Pit,Rev. ix. 11.—Tire Prince of the Power of theAir, Eph. ii. 2.—Lucifer, Isa. x;v..12^—Abad¬don or Appollyon, Rev. ix. 11 .—Legion, Mark-v. 9.—The God of this World, 2 Cor. iv. 4-.—-The Foul Spirit, Mark ix. 25.—The LyingSpirit, 2 Chron. xxx—The Tempter, Mattli,iv. 3—The Son of the Morning, Isa. xiv. 12.But to sum them all up in one, he is called inthe New Testament plain Devil. All his othernames are varied according to the custom ofspeech ami dialects of the several nations where. he is spoken of: but, in a word, Devil is thecommon irame of the Devil in all the knownlanguages of the earth. Nay, all the mischiefshe is empowered to do, are in Scripture placedto his account, under the particular title of theDevil, not of Devi's iu the plural number, thoughthey are sometimes mentioned two ; but in thesingular, it is the, ideutical individiyil Devil, inHand under whom all the little Devils, and allthe great Devils, it such there be, are supposedto act; nay, they are supposed to be governedand directed by him. Titus we are toid in Scrip¬ture of the works of the Devil, 1 John iii. 8.;of casting out of the Devil, Mark i. 34 ; of re¬sisting the Devil, James iv. 7-; of our Saviourbeing tempted of the Devil. Matth. iv. 1.; ofSimon Magus, a child, of the Devil, Acts xiii..10. The Devil came down in great wrath, Rev.xii 12. and the like. According to this usageof speech we go on to this day • and in. all theinfernal- things we converse with in the worldare fathered upon the Devil, as one undividedsimple essence, by how many agents soeverwork-ing. Every think evil is frightful in appear¬ance, wicked in its actings, horrible in its man¬ner, monstrous in its effects, is called the De¬vil ; in a vvordj Devil is the common name forall devils, that is to-say, for all evil spirits, allevil powers, all evil works, and even all evilthings; yet it is remarkable, the Devil is noOld Testament word; and we never find it us¬ed in all that part of the Bible but four times,and then not once in the singular number: andnot onc.e, to signify Satan as it is now under¬stood.Nor, upon the whole, is any wrong done tothe Devil by this kind of treatment : it onlygives him the sovereignty of the whole army ofhell ; and, making all the numberless legionsof the bottomless pit servants, 'or,' as the scrip¬tures calls them, angels to Satan the grand De¬vi], all their actions, performances, and achieve¬ments, are justly attributed to him, not as-Prince of Devils only, but the Emperor of De-||vils,—the Prince of all the Princes of Devils,This being premised, and my authority be¬ing, on satan must not take it ill, if Itreat him after the manner of men, and givehim those titles which he is best known by a-mong us; for indeed, having so many, it is notvery easy to call him out of his name.But who is he ? What is his original ?—*Whence came he ? And what is his presentstation and condition ? For these things, andthese inquiries, are very necessary to his his¬tory ; nor indeed can any part of his history becomplete without them.Thus the Devil, as mean thoughts as ye mayhave of him, is of a better family than any ofyou ; nay, than the best gentleman of you all.What ye may be fallen to, is one thing ; butwhat he is fallen from is another ; and there¬fore, I tmist tell my learned and reverend friendJ. W. L. L. D. when he spoke so rudely ofthe Devil lately that in my opinion he abusedhis betters.How long he remained thus, it is true, wehave no light into from history, and but littlefrom tradition, Rabb Judah says, the Jewsw'ere of opinion, that he remained twenty thou¬sand years in that condition ; and that theworld would continue twenty thousand more,in which he shall find work enough to satisfyhis mischievous desires : but he shews no au¬thority for his opinion.Indeed let the l").-vil have been as idle asthey think he was before, it must be acknow¬ledged, that now he is the most busy, vigilant,and diligent of all God’s creatures, and veryfull of employment too, such as it is.Scripture indeed gives u? .light info the en¬mity there is between the two natures, the diu-16bolical and the human : the reason of jt, andhow ami by w.,at the power of the De-vil is restrained by the Messiah ; and to thosewho are wil'tiog to trust to gospel light, andbelieve what the Scripture says of the Devil,there may much of his history be discovered;and therefore those that list, may go there fora fuller account of the matter.It might take up a great deal of our timehere to inquire whether the Devil has any par¬ticular shape, or personality of substance, vvhi.chcan be visible to us, felt, heard, or understood,and which he cannot alter; and tlien, whatshapes or appearances the Devil has at anytime taken upon him; and whether he canreally appear in a body which might be hand¬led and seen, and yet so as to know it to havebeen the Devil at the time of his appearing :but this also I defer, as not of,weight in diepresent inquiry.We have divers accounts of witches conver¬sing with the Devil ; the Devil in a real body;with all the appearances of a body of a man orwoman appearing to them : also of Iiavmg afamiliar, as they call it, an incubus or little De¬vi), which sucks their bodies, runs away withthem into tie air, and the like. Much of thisis said; but much more than it is easy to prove;and we ought to give but a just proportion ofcredit to those things.How glorious is the Wisdom and goodnessof the great Creator of the world ! in thus re¬straining these serapliie outcasts from thepower of assuming human or organic bodies !which, could they do, invigorating them withthe supernatural powers, which as seraphs andangels, they now possess, and might exert, they-1 ~Ifwould be able even to frigut mankind from theface of the earth, and to destroy and confoundiGod’s creation. Nay, even as they are, werenot their power limited, they might destroy the'(creation itself, reverse and overturn nature, and::;mt the world into a general eondagation. Butwere those immortal spirits embodied, thoughdhey were not permitted to confound nature,They would be able to harass poor, weak anddefenceless man out of his wits, and render himuseless, either to his. Maker' or himself.( But let his .povver be what it will there, welire sure it is limited here, and that in two par¬ticulars : First, He,is limited as above, fromassuming a body, or bodily shapes, with sub-tance , and Secondly From exerting seraphicowers, and acting with that super natural farce,inch as au angel, he was ceirainiy vested withefore the fall, and which we are uot certainjfe yet taken from him ; or, at most, we do not•mow how much it may or may not be dirni-iished, by his degeneracy, and by the blowgi-en him at his expulsion. This we are cer-lin that be' his power greater or less, he is re¬trained from exercise of it in this world ; and|e, who was once equal to the angel tvho killedI|jl80,000 in one night, is not able now, withoutlit new commission, to take away the life of onejdob nor touch any thing he had.But let us consider him then limited and re¬trained as he is, yet he remains a mighty, arerrible, an immoital being ; infinitely .superiorman, as well in the dignity of his nature asthe drtegdful powers he retains still aboutm. It .is true the brain-sick heads of ourithusiastics paint him blacker than he is; and:I I have said, wickedly represent him clothedISwith terrors that do not really belong to him;as if the power of good and evil was whollyvested in him, and that he was placed in thethrone of his Maker, to destribute both punish¬ments and rewards : in this they are muchwrong, terrifying and deluding fanciful peo¬ple about him, till they turn their heads, andfright them into a belief that the Devil will letthem alone, if they do such and such things ;or carry them away with him they know notwhether, if they do not.; as if the Devil, whoseproper business is mischief, seducing and de¬luding mankind, and drawing them in to berebels like himself, should threaten to seizeupon them, carry them away, and in a word,fall upon them to hurt them, if they did evil-;and on the contrary, be favourable and civil tothem, if they did well.Thus a poor 'deluded country fellow in ourtown-, that had lived a wicked, abominable, de¬bauch’d life, was frighted with an apparition,as he called it, of the Devil; He fancied thathe spoke to him, and telling his tale to a goodhonest Christian gentleman his neighbour, thathad a little more sense than himself : the gen¬tleman asked him if he was sure he really sawthe Devil? .Yes, yes, Sir, says he. I saw himvery plain. And so’they began the followingdiscourse:Gent. See him1 see the Devil! art thousure of if Thomas ?Thos. Yes, yes, I am sure enough of it mas¬ter ; to be sure ’twas the Devil,Gent. And how do you know it was De¬vil, Thomas ? Had you ever seen the.Dev.ilbefore ?Tho. No, no, I had never seen him before,19to be sure: but, for all that I know 'twas theDevil.Gent. Well, if you’re sure, Thomas, there’s *no contradicting you ; pray what cloaths hadi he on ?Tho. Nay, Sir, don’t jest with me; lie hadno cloaths on; he was eloathed with fire and1 brimstone.Gent. Was it dark or day light when you sawTho O ! it was very dark, for it was mid¬night.Gent. How could you see him then ? did yousee by the light of the fire you speak of?I T/m. No, no, he. gave no light himself; butill saw him for all that.6'e/ih Rut was it within doors, or out in the[jstreet ?I Tho. It was within, it was in my own ('haut-oer when I was just going into bed, that i sawIhim.• J Gent. Well then, you had a candle, had’ntliyou ?I Tho. Yes I had a candle; but it burnt asI Gent. Well, but if the Devil was .eloathedwith fire and brimstone? he must give you some|iglit; there can’t be such a fire as you speak)f, but it must gave a light with it.Tho. No, no, he gave no light, hut I smeltu - fire and brimstone: he left a smell of it bo¬und him, when he was gone,Gent. Well, so you say he had fire, but gave10 light: it was a devilish fire indeed ; did iteel warm ? was the room hot while he was inTho. No, no, but I was hot enough withouthim ?.. ?■ » . « *H, for it put me into a great sweat with thefright.Gent. Very well, he was all in lire, you say,but without light or heat; only, it seems, hestunk of brimstone; pray what shape was hein ? what was he like ? for you say you sawhim.Tho. O! Sir, I saw two staring saucer-eyes,enough to fright any body out of their wits.Gent. And was }hat all you saw ?Tho. No, I saw his cloven foot very plain,*twas as big as one of your bullook’s that goes.to plough.Gent. So you saw none of his body, but hiseyes and his feet ? a fine vision indeed !Tho. Sir, that was enough to send me go¬ing. 'Gent. Going !. what did you run away fromhim ?Tho. No, hut I fled into bed at one jump,and sunk down, and pulled the bed-cioathsquite over me.Gent. And what did you that for?Tho. To hide myself from suefi a frightfulcreature.Gent. Why. if it had really been the Devil,do you think the bed-eloathes would have se¬cured you from him ?Tho. Nay, I don’t know ; but in a fright itwas all I could do.Gent. Nay,’twas-as .wise as-all the rest; biyt |come, Thomas, to be a Iktie serious, pray did y,he speak to you ?, Tho. Yes, yes, I heard a voice; but who itwas the Lord knows.Gent. What kind of voice was.it ? War it'like a man’s, voice ?21''Tko. No, it was a hoarse ugly noise, likej the ci’oaking of a frog; and it called me by-name, twice, Thomas Dawson, Thomas Daw-il son ?Gent. Well, did you answer?Thu. No, not I, 1 could not have spoke aavord for my life; why, I was frighted to death,Gent. Did it say.any thing else?7V(o. Yes, when it saw that l did not speak,i It said, “ Thomas Dawson, Thomas Dawson1!•iyou are a wicked w retch, you lay with Jehhy'1,|   last night; if you don’t repent, I fViliitake you away alive and carry you to hell, and'you shall be darn'd, you wretch.”Gcht. And was it true, Thomas? did youi lie with Jenny ♦lie night before ?j77(a. Indeed, master, why, yes it was true tbut 1 was very sorry afterwards.Gent. But Low should the Devil know it,1 Thomas ?jlj Tho. Nay, Jie knows it to be sure ; why they|say he luuiws every thing.Gent. \\reH, but why should lie be angry atiihat ? He would rather bid you lie with heragain, and encourage ydd to lie with fortywliores, than hinder you: this can’t be the De-jlvil, Thomas.Tho. Yes, yes, Sir’(was the Devil-to be sure.Gent. But he bid you repent too, yo\i say ?Tho. Yes, he threatened me if I did not.Gent. Why Thomas, did you think the De¬ll would have you to repent?'TVm. Why no, thatVtrue too; I don’tknow|what to say to that; but what could it be?—-j; ’Twas the Devil to be sure, it could be nobody| else.Gent. No, no ’twas neither the Devil, Thos ll22nor any other body else, but your own fright¬ed imagination ; you had lain with that wench,and being a young sinner of that kind, your con¬science terrified you, told you the Devil wouldfetch you away, and you would bp damn’d:and you were so persuaded it would be so, thatyom at last imagined he was come for you in¬deed : that you saw him, and heard him; where¬as, you may depend upon it, if Jenny will letyopjie with her every night, the Devil will holdthe. candle, or do any thing to forward it, butwill never disturb you ; he’s too much a friendto your wickedness ; it could never be the De¬vil, Thomas ; ’twas only your own guilt fright¬ed you, and that was Devil enough too, if youknew the worst of it, you need no other enemy.77m. Why, that’s true master; one wouldthink the Devil should not bid me repent, that’strue ; but certainly ’twas the Devil for all that.Now Thomas was not the only man that, hav¬ing committed a flagitous crime, had been de¬luded by his own imagination, and the powerof fancy, to think the Devil was come for him;whereas the Devil, to gave him his due, is toohonest to pretend to such things ; ’tis his busi¬ness to persuade men to offend, not to repent;and he professes no other : Me may press mento this or that action, by telling them ’tis nosin, no e#ence no breach of God’s law, and thelike, when regliy ’tis both ; but to press themto repent, when they have offended, that’s quiteout of the way ; ’tis none of his business, nordoes he pretend to it : therefore, let no mancharge the Devil with what he is not concern¬ed in.But to return to his person ; he is, as I havesaid, notwithstanding his lost glory, a mighty.23a terrible, and an immortal spirit; he is him¬self called a Prince, the Prince of the Poweriof the Air, the ,Prince of darkness, the Prince)f Devils, and the like.Some think the Devil is in our company visi¬ble or invisible. The following was sent in atletter to' me lately.SIK,WE had one day, very early, in tlie morning, and forit most part of the day, a great deal of rain, with a high,ind, and the clouds very thick and dark all day.In the evening, the elouijy thick weather continued,tough not the rain ; when,'being in a friend’s house in—lane, London and several ladies and some gentk-jien in the room, besides two or three servants, (for welid been eating) the following interlude happened for ouritertainment:—When the cloth was taken away, two largetidies were brought upon- the table, and placed there,ith some bottles and glasses for the gentlemen, who itemswere intending to drink and be very merry. Tworge wax candles w ere alsp set on another table, the ladiesfllg go'og ,0 cards; theVe were also two large candlesscones .over or near the chimney , and one ipore in aiking-glass scone on a pier by the window.With all th's apparatus, the company separating, satiwn ; the geiitlemen at their table, and thO ladies at theirs,play as above; when, after some time, the gentlemanthe house said hastily to the servant, “ What a p——s the candles ?” and turning to the seivant, raps out anith or two, and bids him snuff the candles, for they burnt|if the Devil was in them.IfThe fellow going to snuff one of the candles snuffs itat which his master being in a passion, the fellowit again immediately at the other candle ; and thenng in a little hurry, going to snuff the other candle,tiled that out too.’he first candle that was re-lightcd (as is usual in suchles) burned dim and dull for a good while, and the o-.. r being out, the room was much darker than before;t: n a. wench that stood by the ladies table, bawls out to‘mistress, La! Madam, the candles burn blue!” AnLady that sat by, says, “ Aye, Betty, so they do.” Up-i this one of the ladies starts up ; “ Mercy upon us ! (says) what is the matter ?” In this unlucky moment, a-fier servant without orders, went to the great pier scone;24'•Bn3 because, as he thought he would be sure to snuff the-candle well, he offers to take it down : but very unhappily, .I say, the hook came, down falls the scone, candle and all,and the looking-glass broke all to pieces with a horrible :noise. However, the candle falling out of the scone, didnot go out, but lay on the floor burning dully, and as is ausual in such.cases, all on one side. Betty cries out again, ffl“La! Madam, that candle burns blue too!”' 'Hie very '|moment she said tins, the footman that had thrown downthe scone, says to his fellow servant, .that came to his as¬sistance, “ 1 think the Devi} is in the candles to night !”and away he runs, out of the room for fear of his master.The old lady, who, upon the maid Betty’s notion ofthe candles burning blue, hail Hbr head just full of that old. Jchimney corner story, the candles burn blue when the spirits Mare in the room, heard the footman say the word Devil f fjjbut heard nothing else of what hesaid. Upon this she rises Wup in a tbrrible fright, and cries out, that the footman said :]the Devil was in the room ! As she was indeed frightened IIout of her whs, she frighted the ladies most terribly ; and Iahey all started up together, down goes the card table, and ]but the wax candles out.Mrs. Betty, that had frighted-them all, runs to the sconenext the chimney ; but that having a long snuff, she crie"-out it burnt blue too, and she duist not touch it! In short jthough there were three candles left still burning in throom, yet the ladies were all so frighted that they and the {maids too, ran out of file parlpui. screaming like mad folkThe master, m a fa re, kicked his first man out of throom, and thesecond man ran out to avoid, (as I said be- jfore) the like ; so that no servant was to be had, but all Jwas in confusion.Tbe two other gentlemen, who were sitting at the fir:table, kept their seats composed and easy enough, onlyjconcerned to see all the house in suck a fright. It wasltrue, they said the candles turned dimf and very odly i Ibut they could not perceive they burnt blue, except oneiof those over the chimney, and that on the table, which)was re-lighted, after-tire fellow had snufied it out.However, the maid, the old lady, and tlie footman that;pulled down the scone all insist that the candles burned)blue, and all pretended that the Devil was certainly in tinroom and was the occasion of it, and they now came to »ww ith the story to desire my opinion of it.F I N I S.