GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.LIFE AND ADVENTURESI iOFDAVID HAGGART.WRITTEN BY HIMSELF,WHILE UNDER SENTENCE OF DEATH;WITH ANACCOUNT OF HIS EKEG UTEONe*'s'f< •. niAOoAji 11 v /. .'ijHTA3G 10 30 ' •T/I.^a «30f' J : n ''- * ?! .>, M-jrl fs tr mo'l mjw aiv/R‘’•it fliiW iinnnr.M 'f,;ju ,yr A aof»IoO adJ.■-.t v w-iiiO.Hi 108J .?}'u4*$» v;l* iUR' <»ia uoi >’ i| »y/» y^ii.nr i > 1e ttlJ ^ ,iaqa9;T-r.tm,tig««• m t rntM, t» h) ^fujrcnil Jioog'• « .*♦ 1< ♦'Sft Qffi .HwCA. . bn a(i f I,.* > a' ,1^*^ .b'-Tynm t . boje-« i -vt ;i. bsiii i .* “ilJul fjil moil- r >•> -iU »>*} ' >• ‘ m ■ • (m;* ' ' ii;'b«m ‘■'■•I $)» W4» Int tA t ? lofeci i-nfm* u i ■( •« ©nuili v/!>;)&!f»v*rnH \-if «i otitutoia'it** ’ i,lin * -'Or n: tf,-? ji> j ■:f! »•:.’!"T''t '• i>fi.i*h Av ■ I' ’ >' ■ r f. m™]:> H t rx» 111}| • "itry itl !>nriIs t ,'i v ‘o • ( fr'ow .jafefw tH j»itf yj!i*» ig ♦»} ajK>' '• »♦,•« ',*.••} ). t .,T3i'... ., , : ,1 t| • ! I,UTS -r<Vi • ( ’f'. - ( r ‘ JtHVff isnjlI*'1Ml i '* i ;1 ff; .(l. ■■S’-* • ^ ^! ■>»'wl1 Im > '•»>1*'1i-i'jTfr ■ eOiis ; ; .' •■■-S l»r- 'T/ ’ 'Ait>•- ' ■■ 'iv >*V.‘•311*THE LIFEOFDAVID HAGGART.—David Haggart was born at a farm-town calledilthe Golden Acre, near Cannon-mills, Edinburgh,.iion the 24th day of June, 1801; his father was aijigame-keeper, but afterwards a dog-trainer. Heiwas early put to school, where he acquired aigood knowledge of English grammar, writing,iland arithmetic. About the age of ten, a triflingoaccident occurred, which, for fear of punishmentprom his father, determined him to leave home,land from that moment he dated the commencementlof his sinful career. Ho had made no wickedi»acquaintance as yet, but committed several de ■jiprcdations by himself.j The first of these was stealing a bantam-cockifrom a woman at the back of the New-Town, Edin-iburgh. Having taken a fancy to it, he offered toii buy, but the woman would not sell; he fell on theI scheme of putting another cock of his own a-fight-ing, and then came off with his prize. He alsotried shop-lifting, and carried off the till of a poor! woman, who lived near Stock-bridge. One of hisj next plays was with a boy of the name of Williami. Matheson whom he had accompanied to the villagelof Cm-rie, and on their return, being some miles(from town and tired, he mounted a poney whichwas grazing on the road fide, and rode home;ilie put the poucy into an outhouse which was for¬merly built for a caddie ; he kepi it there forseveral days, until the owner found it out by iaccident. At Leith Races, in 1813, he enlisted inthe Norfolk Militia, and learned the drum andbugle-horn ; the regiment was disbanded in abouta year afterwards, and he was discharged. His 'jfather was then living in the south back of the (Cannongate, Edinburgh, and lie went home, when jhe was put as an apprentice to the millwright andengineering business, with Cockburn and Baird, in ]the Cannongate, where he behaved with honesty,and was very well liked by his employers, Mr. Bairdparticularly had a great liking to him, ho wasentrusted to pay in and draw out considerable sumsat the Bank, and was in every respect a confidentialservant. The affairs of his masters having beeninvolved in bankruptcy, he was thrown idle, andof course, a burden upon his parents.At this time he got acquainted with many worth¬less characters, among whom was one BarnardM‘ Guire, an Irishman, a darling of a boy, who hadbeen bred a tailor in Dumfries ; he was older thanHaggart, of great bodily strength, and a most skilful ipickpocket.—Barney put him up to a number oftricks, and they agreed to travel together, inAugust, 1817, when just on the point of going toi;England, they past a day at Portobello Races, and.picked a gentleman’s pocket of eleven, pounds, tlic ifirst ever Ilaggartattempted,i’1 day-Ught ; witli this; ithey took outside places on the Jedburgh coach,. Jand got themselves genteelly dressed. They at- <tended St. James’ fair at fvelso, and picked twenty :pounds from two persons. From thenco they wontto Dumfries, and stopped three weeks ; they at-;,tended Lookerby fair, and going into a public-house,, i5JO,ft farmer and drover were casting out, when Barneyblew the'coal, upon which they fell a-fighting, andhotft tttfnhled. Barney picked the fanner’s pocketof tivfcnty-thr£e pounds. Haggart called for the’waiter, appeared in!la violent passion, paid for a'bdttlo' of porter, 'abused him for putting them into’such Company, and' immediately left the house.'1’hey'departed next'mornilig, and went to Lang-nplin fair, U'ht'^c they took from a sheep-fanner•KtOtyih ton pbriitd notes,- and £101 in twenty-! Shilling uot'es'. Ab6ut half an hour after they sawj! John Richardson," a Dhmfries officer, runningI about, bhf ho did hot notice them. They took apost-chaise; arid'went to Annan, and next day tookthe Coach for'Aarlisle.They lived in Carlisle about four weeks, duringwhich time they did not attempt any business, hutamused themselves with riding in the mornings,and passed the evenings at gambling-houses, andtwice or thrice went to dances. About this time afair was hold at Kendal, to which they repaired;but did no business till the afternoon when theyfound themselves £43 richer by one transaction.They remained in Kendal all night, and set offnext day to attend Morpeth fair, which was to hoheld two days afterwards, they appeared early onthe ground, but took nothing till the after part ofthe day, when they obtained £32 by two separateadventures.They started next morning for Newcastle on thetop of the coach, where they took private lodgings,passing themselves for gentlemen travelling onpleasure ; they took about £7 0 in whole duringtheir stay in Newcastle. They then went to Dur¬ham, and at night broke a lonely house on the roadto York; they got £30 here. They were appro-.6bended for this act, tried, found guilty, and sentback to prison, to be brought up for sentence ofdeath at the end of the assizes. They broke theprison that night, but Haggart only escaped ; lietravelled back to Newcastle in company with aYorkshireman, and remained there a day, duringwhich time he was occupied iri obtaining a fiddle¬stick for Barney. This being got, they werereturning to Durham, when they were pursued bytwo constables, and just as one was apprehendingIlaggart, he laid him low with his pistol; theYorkshireman knocked down the other, and bothgot clear away. They got safe to Durham, and inthe night-time Haggart got over the 'back wall ofthe Jail by means of a rope-ladder, and succeedediu giving Barney the fiddlestick. He made hisescape that same night, by cutting the iron bars ofhis cell window, and came off together to Ncwcastlb.They next went to Coldstream fair. nnc. Barneybeing found attempting a farmer's pocket, got threomonths in Jedburgh jail. Haggart went to New¬castle again, and to the same lodgings, where hewas treated like a son ; little did tho people knowto whom they were so kind. He did numerous ,trickfe here, and then proceeded to Edinburgh, 'whore he carried on the same lino bnt did not livein his father’s houte. In September he startedfor Berth, with one Henry, and had some adven¬tures. They returned to Leith, and wore taken bythe ’police for some crimes; got bail, and woreliberated.Haggart bad a number of adventures in Edin¬burgh and neighbourhood, and was pnt four months jin Bridewell. After being released, he met with Isome of his companions, and took a trip through ]the North: he was iu Aberdeen jail for some time, jand after committing more depredations, he re¬turned to Edinburgh.They broke into several houses in Edinburghi and Leith, and on New-yoar’s morning 1820, Hag-ij gart had for his share five silver watches and agold one, taken on the South and North bridges.I' He remained in Edinburgh till the 18th, when he1 was taken up and put into the Lock-up-house tofind bail He got out and one night paid a visiti: to the Lock-up-house, and gave the keeper soI much drink, that he got the key, and liberated sixjfl prisoners.j Ho went to Leith the night following and tookI lodgings in Cuper Street, and lived with a womanof the town. While here he committed variousacts in Leith, Edinburgh^ and neighbourhood, bytying some shop-doors, and thrusting his handthrough the windows and grasping whatever goodslay in his road, breaking into numerous houses,picking pockets of watches, &c..—In the course ofthese operations lie removed to different lodgings.I On the first of March, while sitting in his lodg¬ings with a pick-pocket of the name of Forrest, inJohnston Street, North Leith, Captain Ross, of thei police, and one of his men, came in upon them;Ross, seized Forrest and carried him off, leavingI Haggart in charge of the policeman. When lefti alone the policeman opened a bed-room (door, and|l was looking into it, when Haggart forced him in,locked, the door, and . was making his way downI tho stairs, when he was mot by Ross and another• policeman ; a struggle commenced, hut the twooverpowered Haggart, and he was carried to thepolice-office streaming with blood. He was kepthere two days, and then put into the jail to standtrial,—On the 27th March he got a small file, and8■Cut the chains off his legs, penetrated through twothick walls with his handcuffs, liberated Fo^'e^t,and got to the outside about five o’clock nextmorning. When on the outer stair, he saw p, iftancoming up Queen-street, and he prepared tp gjye,battle; but the man only said, ‘‘Run, llaggafjt, ,run, I won't touch ye.” Uaggart took hpld of,Forrest’s hand, and ran even on to p^fcfdtk, witifi- (out stopping. He staid there all night, ajul.sjole/twelve yards of blue cloth, started at, two o’clocknext morning for Kelso, robbed a fanner of -i4rand set off for Dumfries. They were joined bytwo other pickpockets, one of whom, was bangedshortly after at Glasgow. .. ^ .p 1In Dumfries he picked several pockets, and en¬tered several dwelling-houses, hero he fedj in withIds old friend Barney M'Guire, never having seep,him since they parted at Kelso in 1818. Theywere intending to leave Dumfries that night,, hutBarney was taken up. Haggart started for Carlislenext morning, but was overtaken and earned backto Dumfries. Captain Ross arrived in a few days,,and carried him back to Deith jail.Barney was transported for fourteen yegya. Hag- igart was tried at Edinburgh on the, 1 -Th of July,but got off; he was then sent to Dumfries, to s|ajiit[trial at the circuit tliere for Irousohreaking f jifstrial did not go on, and he was sent, back tp jail.^—Here ho got acquainted with a lad, John Duptbaiy.who was under sentence of transporta^ori. Hoalso got acquainted with sonro people bc^pgin^ tothe town, who seemed willing to do him afavouj-^so Haggart made the plan of four keys, and a per¬son was to get them made for him, there being fourdoors betwixt his cell and the street. Having (hus,as he thought, secured bis liberty, bo was too easily0fed into another scheme with Dm^bar, HaggartI bought hiirtsolf certain of his own liberty, but hoho&gfit it would be a grand thing to clear the jail>f all the prisoners. Laurie, another prisoner, pro-josed getting a stone, and tying it in a napkin, andome morning to knock down Hunter, the headailor, and take the keys from him. Ilaggart waslot fond of hsing the stone, as he did not want toihurt the jailor; and he proposed, when ThomasjMortiu came up to the man under sentence of death,to' gag him into a closet at the head of the stairs,;knd take the keys from him ; Dunbar and someijotherS got the stone and put it into a bag. On. Tuesday, the 10th of October, about twelve o’clock,(they noticed Hunter the head turnkey, leave thejail to attend the Races, and shortly after, Morrincame up with two ministers, whom he locked in thecell with M'Grory, who was under sentence ofdeath. Shortly after, Ilaggart placed himself inthe closet at the head of the stairs, where he hadpreviously put the stone and bag. Dunbar calledup Morrin to let out the ministers. He came upaccordingly with a plate of potatoe soup for M‘Grory,I and when he got up to the top of the stairs, Haggartcame out tipon him from the closet, and the push¬ing op On df the door knocked the plate out of hishand ; he then struck him one blow with the stone,dashed him down, and without the loss of a moment,pulled’thb key of the outer door from his pocket;hegave only bne blow with the stone and threw itdown. Dunbar picked it up, but no more blowswere gweh, so that Morrin must have received hisI other blows1 in falling. Haggart observed Dunbarjti on the top of him, rifling his breast for the key|j which he had got. Simpson had a hold of Morrin’s| shoulders, and was beating bis back upon the steps10of the stairs. Ilaggart rushed past them, crossedthe stairs as steadily as he could, pulled the keyfrom his pocket, and opened the outer door.On getting out at the door he ran round the eastcorner of the jail walk and then walked rapidlyround the hack street, and round a great part ofthe town, till he came to the back of the King’sArms Inn. Dunbar made up to him, and that verymoment they saw a policeman coming right up tomeet them ; on this they wheeled about and ran, butDunbar was taken before he ran ten yards,- aridIlaggart had the mortification to sec his followadventurer secured. He once thought of boltingamong them to rescue him, hut the mob’ was toogre^t for him. He went up through the yard ofthe King’s Anns without meeting any body, crossedthe High Street, and ran down the Vennel to theKith. He kept along the water side till ho gotaway to the east of Gumlnngan Wood, having runnearly ten miles in less than an hour. • He thengot on the high road to Annan, when he saw a postchaise at full gallop almost within twenty yards ofhim. Upon this he, buttoned bis coat, and leapt ahedge into a field where some people were raising ,potatoes. They all joined the policemen who had 1got out of the chaise ip pursuit of him ; be crossedthe field at a slaping pace, and made for C'umlun-gan Wood, he belted over a very dotfp ditch coveredwith briars, and ran a few steps along tire side: ofthe hedge, to make the policemen think! he:wasgoing into the wood ; ho then, wheeled, round, lout- -ed, and when they went up ono side of the ditch heran down the other ; little did they know he was sopear them, ho could have breathed upon JohnRichardson as ho passed him. In this way hecame to the cross road,' which leads froni the Nith11to the public road, and never did a fox double thehounds in better st)rlo.lie then made for Annan, and getting on a milei or two on the Oat-lisle road, lie went into a belt ofl planting. Watching an opportunity, he dived intoi a hay-stack, and lay there till next day at twou o’clock in the afternoon, when he heard a womanp ask a boy if * ‘ that lad was taken who had broke outIof Dumfries jail,” the boy answered, “Nb; but thejailor died last night.1'" On -hearing this, 'Haggartlay insensible for a good while. He left the stack,and seeing a scare-crow in a field, he took some ofthe old clothes, and put them on to disguise him¬self. On Wednesday night he slept in a hay-loft;in the morning two men were feeding their horses,land he overheard them speaking about him; lieII started- for Carlisle, which he reached that evening,hearing that a soareh had been making for himii therej ho left-the next day for Newcastle, where liei stopped for some days-along with one Fleming, andkl picked £22 in the-market from a man; hero he|| passed close to Richardson, who was in quest ofhim* but was not noticed. He left Newcastle forScotland, got upon the Berwick coach, then took aticket for Edinburgh, but went only to Dunbar.Next morning sot off for Edinburgh, where he niotwith a gentleman, and took tho same lodgings withhim in the Lord IKmcan TaVern, Canuongate.After separating from the gentleman, he stopt atil Jock’s Lodge with a friend ; while here he visitedii his father and some acquaintances,' disguised inwomen’s clothes. Gne'night, dressed in his ownclothes, taking a walk from Portobello to Leith, hemet Capt. Ross of tho Leith police ; their eyesmet, and both stood motionless, till Haggart feignedto pull a pistol from his breast. Ross knowing12him too well before, quickly took to his heels, andIlaggart instantly turned through the field, andmade to Jock’s Lodge. Then, Crossing the Forth,lie went through Cupar to Dundee, disguised insailors’ clothes ; there be committed a number ofdepredations, then'i'hturned to Xewhavein and wentup to Edinburgh, llfere the first thing he saw wasa bill posted hi), Offeringl!T0 guineas'reward for hisapprehension. Thik1 determined’ him tee go northagain. 116 arrived in Diinde^, and"from thencewerit to I’terth, and atteiided1 the fairs in Ferth,Dunkeld, Kenmore, &e.,'and robbed some cattlo-dealers to a considerable' amount. One night, inhis lodgings in P0t*th, two policemen eaiuc rneupouhim, but the determined manner in which he re¬ceived them, made them hesitate in apprehendinghim, and Haggart gained an opportunity to escape.He left Perth for Glasgow, and made up his mindto go to Ireland^ and started in the) steam-boat.Here he was recognized by the Provost of Kirkaldy,who went ashore at Lamlash ; Ilaggart; suspectingall was not right, was ready to jump overboard, hutthe boat werit off'without the Provost. He landedin Belfast; where he attended faim, &c., and wasin continual eceneS of robbing and knocking down.At Drummofb market lie was ’Seized and takenbefore a magistrate. When asked what name liehad, he 'answered, it was John M‘Colgan, fromArmagh. He1 was crossmsttmiriedy andi showu aDublin paper, with a description of his person ; hedenied hehVga Scotsman, arid passed1 off tho brogueso well, that the magistrate was iir deubte. but hewas ordered to be detained,' and three'yeoman, sat ]in the court-house to guard him. lie plied them Iso well with drink, that he prevailed ■ on them to jlet a yoiVng-'irriman Ivrifig''himsupper ;■ and j|13I When she came, he got leave to speak with herprivately, behind the boxes,, of the court, wherethere-was a large window ; he bolted right throughthe window, without being lyirt by the fall; he.■ crossed tie street, and got into an entry, whex-e hesaw his keepers ,.belo,w the window, staring at eachi other.,:- ike started -fori Belfast, ,which he soonll reached., having ran fifteen,Insh milps in two hoursfij and a quarter. Isexb vnQrnjng; he took flie coach:| for Kowry, where hp,arrived about mid-day, andthe 3ame evening picked a gentleman’s pocket of£5 c after remaining twro days he took the coachfor Armagh, where he spent Qhristmas-day, and atone:adve»ture took £17,. He next went to Dublin,where he remained a short time in respectablelodgings; having, made up his mind to go toAmerica, he went down to the Pigeon-house andpaid £3 10s. for his passage. While waiting thesailing of the vessel, he met an acquaintance namedO’Brien, Ire changed his mind, and lost his passage-money rather than cross the Atlantic. They agreedto go in company, and, before leaving the quay,they robbed a man of ninety-five guineas in gold.They remained in Dublin about ten days, and oneevening, at i the theatre door they picked a gentle¬man’s pocket of £54. Having got themselves finelydressed, they hired a jaunting-car, and, in com¬pany with women of bad fame, took a tour throughtho counties of. Fermanagh, Cavan, and Derry.They were a full month on this excursion, duringwhich time they spent upwards of £.190,During tlreir stay in .Derry, they went to attenda cockffight* and when in the pit, they saw agentleman taking, bets with every one, two to one.lie appeared , to gain every bet he took, and wasquite uplifted with . success. Haggart getting14alongside of him, and thinking he was unobserved,cased him first of his pocket-book, next of his purse,and lastly of Ids watch. On moving round, thepit, a gentleman accosted him, and said, If you aretlie switcher, some take all, but you leave nothing,’'He answered, “ If I had left him an halfpenny, hewould have gained all the money in the pit in thetwinkling of abed-post.” The gentleman replied,“he believed it was true,,for he has got all mine,or at least, you have it now.” They immediatelyleft the pit, and heard mo more about it. O’Brienwitnessed tire whole conversation, and Haggartnever got another name from him after huts the•Switcher. > n iabcppi Bth bud bd wAfter their return to Dublin they remained aboutten days; finding their cash getting scarce, Hag¬gart resolved on taking a journey by himself, andstarted on foot to 'Mullingar, wlrere a famous cattlemarket is held; here he picked a gentleman’spocket, but only got £13 by the adventure. Nextmorning he started for Tullamoro, and arrived atnight. A fair was hold the following day, whichhe attended, and. was not long on tire ground tillho cased a gentleman of £7. Towards the evening |lie observed a pig-drover putting a large sum of 41money in his pocket, which was too tempting^ forhim to let pass. He priced a pig, and of coursecould not agree; but during the discourse he pickedhis pocket, and then went off. u -e "About an hour afterwards, while walking throughthe market-place, he got a bat-on the ear with ashiUelah, which brought him to the ground. Get¬ting up, ami looking round him, ho asked who haddone it. The pig-drover, flourishing his sprig,said, ‘f By jappers, it was me, my boy; you havetoken my miny from me. By jappers, you’re a15liar, but here’s' at you; and at the same time lielevelled him in return. Haggart then let him up,and he became quietfer when he found who he had todeal with. Haggart asked him again Why he struckhim. He'then charged him with the theft in pre¬sence of a number of people. Haggart askeddiim ifhe would know his own notes : he said he would ;upon which : he tumid out the whole of his moneyinto a gentleman’s hand, and desired him to look atit there; and see if he could find any of his amongst•it;! He looked, and said there was not. Haggartthen !Insisted on being' searched; the gentlemansaid he wdukl not allow him to be searched there,as lie bad the appearance of a gentleman; and pro¬posed going to' a house.11 They went accordingly,mid nothing was found on him. He then insistedon taking the pig-drover before a magistrate, andput him in charge of two pblic6men,-the gentlemangoing'arm in arm with him, to bear witness beforethe magistrate how ill he had been used. Thejudge heafd the case ; he said that -the pig-droverwais liable to punishment, but recommended him towithdraw his complaint, as it was evident the illusage had arisen from mistake; that he knew him tobo an honest man, and he had been a great loser al¬ready. Haggart assured the judge it was not moneyho wanted ; he only wished tb show the man hiserror, and prove his own honesty. • He left it tothe gentleman to say what ho should do, aS he ha'dseen the whole affair. He recommended him toaccept of an apology, which ho did, after givingthe man of pigs a serero reprimand. An apologywas made, he declared himself satisfied^—bowed totbe judge, and retired.He started for Newry on the afternoon of Mon¬day, and got there in the evening, where lie re-16maiued a few days, during winch St. Patrick’s daywas celebrated.lie left Newry on foot by himself, with the in¬tention of going to Belfast, to take shipping forPrance. He got the length of Castle-William,where, unfortunately, he heara of a fair to-be heldnext day at Clough, about six or eight mile,?distance. He resolved to attend it,. and practisehis profession for the last, time in che Britishdominions. It was''tho'1 lasf" tiftrtepqhJiWeSi Hoaccordingly repaired to the. ground', aha had notbeen long there, when, hp observed a pig-di-brer pit¬ting a bunch of bank-notes in his bredches pbckct.He priced one of his pigs,' biit1, as usual, they'couldnot make a bargain ; but, ha!ying got ah opportu¬nity, he picked liis pocket, ahd left him, and hadjust got time to hide the nioney in the neck'of hiscoat, and return to the ground, witch He was shizedby the drover, and two of His couipanions. liewas charged with the theft, and of course deniedthe charge. Having been strictly sehfched, noneof his money w^s foiw^Won pliiirtftht fte’pelrt'istedVin the accusation, and said lie would takh'his oaththat he writhe,person who had takhii it. He1 wastaken jbefore a magistrate, and underwent an ej-"amination. lie via^askc^l hih nahie, and^liere he'wTas from? lie answered, ',l Dhiiiol (b’Brttn, J cortifefrom Armagh.” ,The drover made oath thatli^d taleqn his money, audPjSh tt'als;tc&Biffirt^d toDownpatrick jail, to stand trihT at Vfie1'n^rtra§si2efe'.While he was in jail, hoi sent for the pig'-di'bver,and made the matter up with liim, by'rcfurhinghis money, and additiolial'to hiollify’hi&^andhe promised to say nothing against hipi on hisOn the ioth of March by was 'jfiit' to tlie bar,17and the indictment "being read over, be said ho waswouguit agawiss-Jjnin m eviaenc^. r ne orover Keptlis WjO^, heJaM no^mffw Jw^etliJelclho—x_cs  pe ^fas tneJoerson that’| the evidence, and.hivHe tbfiB, addressed tbefjurv noarh-as follows :—Mm'mM fecagt). abb ifr tuobghtles^vetdict, which]>y mining hischaracter, and bewt’Ving, him of ms hpery, Oren-tlepnon,, ](, P t|iafo|' h^yb been perfectlypro.yedi^tp b^.'the pe^on, wlio lybs ajlpripbended atCloag 11f,ffjf.jspspi9.flf picking this man’s pocket;bqtjJWl. s^ cde^i'Iy ’thay 'bobo^of^his’ property wasfound ppQn^jnjp^^jid rindro than that, the manhimse^ jlias sw,ew dp^yjOUp P^sebee that he is notAll ot yoil^yyp pp^e^iplipj-piyekpockcts, repliedthe. Jnugfojb ' -,7 .'jpjMo' jV '?'! '}?n°- d.He said he was perfectly mistaken, for neitherho noi' fliey-vyefe eyer guilty of such.yv,thing. Howas right as to them, hut I will leave tho work! tojudge with what truth he spoke of himself. TheJudge, in an angry tone, said, “ AVill you hold upyour face and toll me that, sir? was you not triedbefore me ten days ago at .Dundalk, and about fouryears ago at Carrickfergus ? I know you well, andall your family.”He declared that he never was before a Court inhis life till then, and sure enough he never wasbefore him. •a. L.t o .The Judge then addressed the Jury ; he said, itdid not signify whether they were clear of his beingguilty of the present crime, for he could: assurethem that he was an old offender, and, at allevents, to return a verdict of felony at large. Hesprung up* and declared he was getting no justice,and said there was no proof of his being a felon ;and added, “ How can I be brought in as a felon,when not a single witness has made oath to it V’The Judge, in a violent rage, said, that he wouldmake oath if necessary; and the Jury in a momentreturned a verdict of “ Guilty of felony at large.”He was then sentenced to banishment for sevenyears; the Judge at the same time telling himjthat if he would produce his father, and show tohim that he had mistaken him, ho would changethe sentence to twelve months’ imprisonment. Hetold him he would rather go abroad than let hisfriends know any thing of the matter; that he wassending him among pickpockets, where he wouldlikely learn the art himself, and the first man’spocket he would pick on his return would be his.He was removed to tlie jail, and that same after¬noon, Mr. Blackart, the clergyman and magistrateof Drummore, who had formerly examined him,came into the press-yard, where he was walkingamong a number of other prisoners, Ho distin-19! guished him in a minute, and asked him if ever hewas in Drummore? he said, “ twenty times.” He, then asked him if he recollected him, or of bribinga constablel, and breaking away. He said ho hadnever seen him before, or been in custody in Drum-| more in his life. He then asked if ever he tooktho name of John M'Colgan? ho answered, henever did, and did not know what he meant. He; ! then told the jailor, if he did not clap the irons onhim, he would be off in half an hour. The jailorsaid,: he knew: well enough that my name wasO’Brien, and he certainly was mistaken ; but Mr.Blackart was too sure of him to listen to the jailor.He was immediately loaded with hand-cufts andi irons, and remained in that state threo days, whenI he was removed to Kihnainham jail, and was threedays upon tho road. When he arrived there, hewas put amongst a great number of convicts ofevery description 5 he was but a few days there,when he thought of effecting his escape, and begandigging the back wall, with the assistance of some9 others, having first secured the entrance-door tbtheir apartment. But some of the prisoners, who! did not care about joining them, gave information,and, being tho first mtm who made his appearancethrough the hole, lie got a bat from the outsideft; with a shillelah, the mark of which was visible eyer! after, and disfigured his right eyebrow. The boy:i1 rushed after him, but having still a high wall toi get over, they wore all secured by a party of sobI) diers, and loclicd up in their cells.Next day the whole of the prisoners wore called1 out into thd court-yard, and in a few minutes JohnRichardson from Dumfries made his appearance,and began his examination. Ho passed him once,Ti but upon a second look over ho recognized him,20and said, '‘Davie, do you ken me?” Haggartturned to tire1 jailor, ariddn a ma^tel^piecie of Irishbrogue, said, “ What does thd infein say?” Don’tyoti know hiih?’*’ titeidns'freri'1,lie'sakl Ihe didnot, but John persisted that he did)’ ‘ Oh the1 feebondday he was pht dhl ‘ irons, dad' vrthdubtetl'‘bV'Johnand an Irish ofSceP%'oaI>iftfa^SiIfi;)TOe^'vfei‘e ^{-ee jdays and three nigiris'bn-the itifid, and ht'trijieH-enced great kiiidiieSs fiNMA tW'dfflijtfs. v,, ^nrw <i!hi their approaeh!teiDuWiFries^#hIehlWsitiinlthodarkj tliere were rimtiyiJfhofasaftftS' tif pebble'6H;)t!ieroad, mahy of tliem Witli 'terdKe^ in ‘tlieii1 di^rids,waiting his aniv&D;Jtihd W gdt 'tbdoor, it Was Scarcely possible tb get hihi^ut' of thecoach for the •mnltitiu3eiii4tll' ritiwdihg fOf a‘sii^litof Haggart 1 diHE MGRbfiREdhdj^e»n<to.^eeintfdtSorfy,and some terrified for him ; Intt theteiriis nof‘biieof them all to s»*Pjf"<y£& terrified1 las°M! Walt. " ’ lieplunged through them, rattling 'Ms chfi?riS,i;jfedmaking a groat show of courage, but his heirt wasshaking at the thoughts of poor Mbrriil. As bewent up the narrow stair to -the cells, hp had topass the-very spot where- he stt'titlk liiM ? 'diidj: oh !it was like fire under his feet: •* ,! S" 0''Oi: '? y'Ho was locked up in his old cell, and'flip greaterpart of the Irish irons were taken'bft* him. Howas kept at Dumfries about thred weeks, duringwhich he was twice exaniined-'before the Sheriff;but they could rtot get What they-Pall'a declarationout of him, for he knew that would beJhsed againsthim, so he thought it as well tb keep his tonguewithin his teeth; but whfcn the examination wasover, he offered to tell the whole of his story tothem privately, and he did tell a good deal of it.From Dumfries he was convoyed to EdinburghJail, and placed once more under the charge of21Captain Sibbakl, the kindest and the best jailor in. the world. He was soon after indicted to standbis trial before the High Court of Justiciary, forthe murder of Thomas Morrin.In about a fortnight the day of his trial came,lie had been carried the evening before from theCalton Jail to the Lock-up-house in the old town,and he was taken into the Court about ten o’clock,on the morning of the 11th of June. Many wit¬nesses were examined against him, and some ofI them did not speak the truth ; but he said nothingagainst them, for perhaps they were only mistaken.He was fully as wicked as they made him. Therewas one witness who should have said that he knewof their plan, and that their only object was liberty,l?ot( to murdor poor Thomas Morrin. But thiswould have made no difference, for it was thepleasure of God Almighty that he should come toan end.,All that man could do was done for him at histrial, and he had good hopes till the Judge began! to speak ; but then his spirits fell, for his speakingwas sore against him. He did not altogether de¬spair wlien lie saw the Jury, talking together—butoh ! when they said .Guilty, his,very heart broke :but he^was even then too proud to show his feel-ings,/ahd:' he almost,tbit hjs. lip through in hidingthem. When .the Judge was passing the awfulI . senteuce, he turned dizzy, and gasped for breath.They say he looked careles?, but they could notsee icithin hi in. He did: not know what had hap-pepc^o^wi^cre h^fwas—ho thought of every thingin (i minute—he .thought of his father—he thoughtof .hi.} mother, who died,, of, a broken heart,—hothought of, escape, and very near made a plungeover the heads of the crowd—then ho could havecried out. When the sentence was oyer, he gatheredhis thoughts, and his ihoart was as hard as eyer;for he said, f‘Well! tlie man that is horn to hehanged, will not he drowned!” This was .verywicked, but ho could not help it, for he had nocommand of his thoughts or words.After being brought hack to tho jC/idton jail, thewickedness of his heart was still great, and he; hadso' little (thought of his awful situation, tli^t hemade the following lines, just to show that hisspirit could not be ■conQucreid!“r: . *>,•/,Able and willing you will ine find,Though bound in chaiins stiU fe'fie in ipirfd ;For with these things I'll ne’er ho grieved,Although of freedom I’m. b^reavodj.j—jifli'f giriyh 7'if to y ionum yilj pTIn this vain world tlvere is no reft, /And life is but a span at best; Hi!The rich, the poor, the old, the young,Shall all lio low before its long. u I; op j-.um I U iii dgin t ondl odTI am a rogue, I den’t deny, i t >But never lived by troaohery ;And to rob a poor man, I disown,Koi But them that are of high repowu..IO I mu( -M I. ;. .; V, .7 y_j,0,j v;, vy{ ■ u, J- Now, for the crime that I’m coudcmu’d, .oil !rPho same I never did intend ;linottaly my liberty to take,i As I thotight my like did He ^4 S^k^j.,,,, . o-ojoturl .'(ii'ffj oj hLiow on hell eh myifj Idoi oil .n iillirir MV'life by perjury'Wa.i.SW,bi’nAh'llW loiitriob I II say -that to my dyingittejlfe aaqari mirl ovcg- Oil, treacherous i S—rH>iYiOR did me betray,For all 1 wanted was liberty- •iu.; ui -tol '.ti.--/23.ensiilNo malice 'in my heart is found,To any man above the ground ;Now, all good people that speak of me,You may say I died for my liberty.Although in chains you see me fast,01 ;_No frown upon my friends you’ll cast,For my relations were not to blame,And I brought my parents to grief and shame.hsiiJ wyils of /•ijuil i/iuwojfoi idi -injii'Now, all you ramblers^ in mourning go,For the Prince of Ramblers is lying low ;And all yoh maidens who lote tine game,Put on your mourning veils again...bovgng pd 'i'j'on li I egniilf oz'jiU ihiz w'lAnd all your powoi-s of music chauut,To the memory of my dying rant—A song of melancholy sing;Till you make the very rafters ring.^mrov. eilf ,bIo odj -Farewell relations, and friends, also.The time is nigh that I must go ;As for foes, 1 have but one, ■ !But to the same I’ve done no drrong. 1But these wild aiid wicked thoughts soon lefthim. Every body was very kind to him. Thiskindne^ Wa* 'an awful lesson to him, but it didhis heart good, fo^ 'it was the sorest' punishment hemet with in this world. Ho was visited by severalclergymen, they" prayed much with him and forhim. He told them he had no words to pray, butthey taught li'itn, made him read the Bible, andgave him hopes of'tnefcy in Heaven—at least, suchhopes as'a'|)6(ir miserable sinner like him couldhave, for his sins stuck close to him.unniuiiffliinmmi