[No. 13.THE LIFEAFRICANER,THE TERROROFTHE CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.EDINBURGH:PRINTED & PUBLISHED BY J. BRYDONE,SOUTH HANOVER STREET.fOr.'J,H HVXO/!'B 8XKKEX'tirmii D v jb/iBrianED ba r bkado^e*EDIHBJQKC'TI:XHE 0V tE OE GOOD HOLE'OEHIE XEKKOK7 KI (. 7 / E K *J.HE FILEu'THELIFE OF AFRICANER. —J3efore entering on the history of this notedi individual, it may be necessary to give a shortoutline of the continent of Africa, which formsone of the four quarters of the world. Its! length, from north to south, is between 4000i and 5000 miles, and its greatest breadth, fromi east to west, is about 4000 miles. The Medi-I terranean Sea separates it from Europe, andthe Red Sea from Asia. It is divided intoi North and South Africa; North Africa beingthat division which lies north of the equator,and South Africa that which lies south of theequator. The greater portion of this continentlies under a vertical sun. Within the tropics,or middle part of Africa, the aborigines, ornatives, are generally jet black, and to the northor south they are of a dark-olive colour. Inthe whole of that vast continent, no natives ofa white complexion are to be found. When awhite person appears in any of the Africancountries for the first time, he is an object ofgreat teri’or to the natives, especially to thewomen and children, who immediately run fromhis presence.Most of its inhabitants are totally unac¬quainted with snow and ice; indeed, theywould as soon expect to see the flinty rock dis¬solve into water, as to see water changed intohard ice. Some years ago, one of the natives,sailing in a ship to England, happened, whennear that country, to go hastily on deck on a4LIFE OF AFRICANER.frosty morning, and, for the first time, observ¬ing that his breath was like smoke proceedingfrom his throat, he was seized with extremehorror, supposing there was a fire in his sto¬mach, ran to his master, crying, “ Fire ! fire !”Ethiopia or Abyssinia, Egypt, and thecountries bordering on the MediterraneanSea, viz., the coast of Barbary, all situated atthe north part of Africa, were well known inthe early ages; but the immense regions be¬yond them to the south were entirely unknowntill a few hundred years ago, when the Portu¬guese discovered the way to the East Indiesby sailing round the Cape of Good Hope, whichis at the southern part of Africa.The father of Africaner, the subject of thepresent memoir, was a Hottentot, born in theHottentot country now called the colony of theCape of Good Hope. He, with his family, werein the service of a Dutch boor, or farmer, inthe district of Tulbagh, and were employedin attending the farmer’s cattle. These, for thesake of pasture when it was scarce in that dryand sandy part of Africa, were sent higher upthe country, beyond the limits of the colony, tothe vicinity of the Great Orange River, where,as in the days of Abraham and Lot, the nativesconsider it is no intrusion for strangers to bringtheir flocks and feed them as long as theyplease. It is the same in all the interior ofSouthern Africa that is yet known.Afterwards, the family lived with anotherboor, named Piemaar, at a farm on the banksof the Elephant’s River, which is the largest,except the Great Orange River, on the westernside of South Africa; and in such a countryLIFE OF AFRICANER.may literally be called a river of life, for treesgrass, &c., for a little distance from its bank#>look green, healthy, and lively ; but beyond,all is a barren waste.It was about this time that the Cape colonyfirst came under the government of the English,by being captured from the Dutch. A reportwas circulated by evil-minded persons, that allthe Hottentots were to be forced to becomesoldiers, and to be sent out of Africa. Thisreport made old Africaner and his sons resolveto retire beyond the bounds of the colony, toi escape being forced into the army. However,they still continued in the service of Piemaar,the boor, who sometimes employed them onplundering expeditions against the defencelessi natives of the interior, furnishing them withmuskets and powder for that purpose. In thisway, they were taught to rob for their master,I and thus, after a time, they learned to rob forthemselves.From some circumstances which occurred,suspicions arose in the minds of the old Hotten¬tot and his sons that their employer acted un¬faithfully to them during their absence, andhis sending them more frequently from homeconfirmed their suspicions; and they detei'-. mined to refuse to leave home any more on* such expeditions.Information having come to Piemaar thatthe Bushmen pirates had carried off some cattleI belonging to the district over which he was field-cornet, (a kind of justice of peace,) he, in hisofficial character, commanded them to pursuethe Bushmen, in order to re-capture the cattle.This order they positively refused to obey, say-1 ing, that his only motive for sending them onL '  ^_UfB Of A^JOANER.such au expedition was that they might bekilled.They had, on the previous night, receivedauthentic information that it was a deep-laidscheme to get them to go to another farm, wheresome of the party were to be seized. Firedwith indignation at the accumulated woesthrough which they had passed, a tempest wasbrooding in their bosoms. They had beforesignified their wish, with the farmer’s permis¬sion,. ,to have some reward for their often gall¬ing servitude, and to be allowed peaceably toremove to some of the sequestered districts be¬yond, where they might live in peace. Thisdesire had been sternly refused, and followedby severity still more grievous. It was even¬tide, and the farmer, exasperated to find his com¬mands disregarded, ordered them to appear atthe door of his house. This was to them anawful moment; and, though accustomed toscenes of barbarity, their hearts beat hard.It had not yet entered their minds to do vio¬lence to the farmer. Jager, with his brothersand some attendants, moved slowly up towardsthe door of the house. Titus, the next brotherto the chief, dreading that the farmer in hiswrath might have recourse to desperate mea¬sures, took his gun with him, which he easilyconcealed behind him, being night. Whenthey reached the front of the house, and Jager,the chief, had gone up the few steps leading tothe door, to state their complaints, the farmerrushed furiously on the chieftain, and with oneblow precipitated him to the bottom of thesteps. At this moment, Titus drew from be¬hind him his gpn, fired on Piemaar, who stag¬gered backward, and fell. They then enteredLIFE OF AFRICANER. 7the house, the wife having witnessed the murderof her husband, shrieked, and implored mercy.They told her on no account to be alarmed,for they had nothing against her. They askedfor the guns and ammunition which were inthe house, which she promptly delivered tothem. They then straitly charged her not toleave the house during the night, as they couldnot ensure her safety from others of the ser¬vants, who, if she and her family attempted toflee, might kill them.This admonition, however, was disregai-ded.Overcome with terror, two children escaped bya back-door. These were slain by two Bush¬men, who had long been looking out for anopportunity of revenging injuries they had suf¬fered. Mrs Piemaar escaped in safety to thonearest farm. Africaner, with as little loss oftime as possible, rallied the remnant of his tribe,and, with what they could take with them, di¬rected their course to the Orange River, andwere soon beyond the reach of pursuers, who,in a thinly scattered population, required timeto collect. He fixed his abode on the banksof the Orange River; and afterwards, a chiefceding to him his dominion in Great Namaqua-land, it henceforth became his by right, as well' as by conquest.Attempts were made on the part of thecolonial government and the farmers to punishthis daring outrage on the Piemaar family;but, though rewards were offered, and com¬mandoes went out for that purpose, Africanerdared them to approach his territories. Someof the farmers had recourse to another strata¬gem to rid the frontiers of such a terror : theybribed some of the Bastards, who were in the8LIFK OF AFRICANER.habit of visiting the colony from the upperregions of the Orange River. This gave riseto a long series of severe and sometimes bloodyconflicts between the Africaners and the chiefReread and his associates, Berend being im¬pelled by a twofold reward, and Africaner bya desire to wreak his vengeance on the farmerswho were once his friends, the instigators ofthe deeply-laid scheme. Though these twochiefs dreadfully harassed each other, neitherconquered; but continued to breathe againsteach other the direst hatred, till, by the gospelof peace, they were brought to “ beat theirswords into ploughshares, and their spears in¬to pruning-hooks.”As soon as Africaner had discovered theorigin of the plot, which had well nigh over¬thrown his power, he visited the boundaries ofthe colony. A farmer, named Engelbrecht,and a Bastard Hottentot, fell the victims tohis fury, and their cattle and other propertywere carried off, to atone for the injuries in¬flicted by the machinations of the farmers.Africaner now became a terror, not only tothe colony on the south, but also to the tribeson the north. The original natives of thecountry justly viewed him as a dangerousneighbour, even though he had obtained, bylawful means, a portion of their country.They considered him as the common enemy.This led to pilfering and provocation on theirpart—conduct which he was sure to pay back,in their own way, with large interest. Thetribes fled at his approach. His name carrieddismay even to the solitary wastes. “ At a sub¬sequent period,” says Moffat, “ as I was stand¬ing with a Namaqua chief, looking at Afri-I,1FE OF AFRICANER..0canor, in a supplicating attitude, entreatingparties ripe for a battle to live at peace witheach other : ‘ Look,1 said the wondering chief,pointing to Africaner, ‘ there is the man, oncethe lion, at whose roar even the inhabitants ofdistant hamlets fled from their homes ! Yes,and I,1 (patting his chest with his hand,) ‘have,for fear of his approach, fled with my people,our wives and our babes, to the mountainglen, or to the wilderness, and spent nightsamong beasts of prey, rather than gaze on thetyes of this lion, or hoar his roar.1 11Africaner and his brother Jager dared notto visit Cape Town themselves after the mur-dets and plunders they had committed in thecolony, and they were obliged to employ othersto procure for them what they wanted fromthence. On one occasion, about the beginningof the year 1811, they employed a man, namedHans Drayer, to purchase a waggon for themat the Cape, which is a vehicle of great valuein such countries for travelling, &c. For thispurpose, they entrusted him with three span orteams of oxen, ten in each span: with twospan he was to purchase the waggon, and withthe third, to bring the waggon home to Nama-: qua-land. On his way to Cape Town, Hansmet a boor to whom he was indebted for aconsiderable sum : for payment of this debt theboor seized the whole of the oxen ; and Hansi was obliged to return to the missionary station!i at Ramies Fountain, in Little Namaqua-land,i’ where he usually resided, and he refused to\ give to Africaner any satisfactory account ofthe oxen. Africaner was so angi-y at his loss,and so exasperated against Hans, that he pur¬sued him to Ramies, where he and his peopleLIFE OF AFRICANER.10put him to death, and committed great enor¬mities.Not long after this painful occurrence, thefriends of Hans, with the assistance of someNamaquas, in their turn, attacked the kraalor town of Africaner; who, to be revenged up¬on the Namaquas for aiding the friends ofHans against him, afterwards fell upon theirkraal. Finding themselves too weak to resisthim, they, implored assistance from the Nama¬quas at Warm Bath; who, complying withtheir request, sent out a large armed party t!>defend them. This conduct so enraged Afri¬caner, that he threatened destruction to thesettlement at Warm Bath.Under the apprehension of certain destruc¬tion from so resolute a savage, Mr Albrecht,the missionary and his wife left that station,removing what goods they could, and buryingthe rest in the earth in hope of returning at afuture period: but the mission was never re¬sumed ; for, after enduring some fatiguingjourneys, Mrs Albrecht, (formerly Miss Berg¬man, from Holland,) died at Silver Fountain,in Little Namaqua-land, as some thought of abroken heart. After this, Mr Albrecht tookup his residence at Kamiesberg and Pella. Hedied, not long after* of a dropsy, probably occa¬sioned by the bad water in that part of thecountry.Africaner accomplished his threat, for heat-tacked the Namaquas at Warm Bath, andcarried off a great number of their cattle, andcontinued to molest them, till at length themission house and the chapel were burnt, and theinhabitants of the village almost entirely dis¬persed, and most of them obliged , to live uponLIFE OF AFRICANER.11roots, wiki berries, and whatever they couldThe succeeding year, 1812, v, hen Mr Camp¬bell first visited Africa on the affairs of theLondon Missionary Society, he found it neces-sary to cross that continent from the eastern tothe western side. During this journey, hefound every town through which he passed wellacquainted with the name of Africaner, and alltrembling lest he should pay them a visit: hewas the only person whom Mr Campbell wasafraid of meeting during this part of his jour¬ney. However, on arriving safe at the mission¬ary station at Pella, on the western side ofAfrica, he wrote a letter to Africaner, express¬ing regret that ho should be the occasion of somiich misery and oppression in that part ofAfiica;—that as he knew there was a God, anda judgment to come, he stated his belief toAfricaner that he must be an unhappy man,by being the cause of so much unhappiness toi others. And as the Word of God taught for-l giveness, he offered to send a missionary to in-! struct him and his people, notwithstanding all1 he had done against the missionary institutioniat Warm Bath, if he expressed a desire tohave one sent to him.So great was the terror of both Namaquasand Bushmen at the name of Africaner, that,though a present was to accompany the letter,i and payment to be given to the bearer of it, a! considerable time passed before a person couldbe found of sufficient courage to undertake it.Indeed, for a long time after these Namaquasr had fled to Pella, across the Orange Kiver,from the dread of Africaner, the least rising of\ dust or sand at a distance frightened themfindI.IFE OF AFRICANER.12very much, and they were sure it was Africa¬ner coming after them. At length, however,a person was obtained to carry the letter toAfricaner, who was his relation, and who hadcrossed the continent with Mr Campbell. Six'years afterwards, when Africaner met Mr Camp¬bell at Cape Town, he said, “ that the offer ofa missionary, which the letter contained, madehim glad—that in his heart he had long wishedfor a teacher—that his brother Jager, whocould write, had written an answer, which wassent across to the Griqua country, and fromthence to the colony, that it might proceed toMr Campbell at the Cape, desiring to see amissionary, and that he might be an Englisn-man.” This letter never reached Cape Town.Africaner, receiving no answer from the Cape,sent a messenger to the missionary station atPella, in Little Namaqua-land, about two days1journey from his own kraal, requesting that themissionary promised to him might be sent assoon as possible; in consequence of whichmessage, Mr Ebner, one of the missionaries atPella, proceeded to Africaner’s kraal, where heimmediately commenced his labours. We arenot acquainted with the particulars of whatpassed, but the preaching and conversation of !this missionary were blessed of God ; for, some 3time afterwards, Africaner expressed himselfto the following effect:“ I am glad that I am delivered. I havebeen long enough engaged in the service of thodevil, but now I am free from his bondage.Jesus has delivered me; him will I serve, andwith him will I abide.”Several other natives were converted to God,a Christian congregation was formed, and Afri-LIFE OF AFRICANER. 13i caner was taught to read the sacred Scriptures,i in which he took much pleasure.The missionary, Mr Ebner, who first wenti to Africaner’s kraal, after continuing there up¬wards of two years, returned to his former sta¬tion, and wras succeeded by Mr Moffat, whowas instrumental in building up the new con¬verts in their faith, and adding to their num¬ber, and maintaining peace amongst them.Indeed, from the day the gospel entered thekraal, they ceased to disturb the peace of theneighbouring tribes ; for, so far as the truths ofIthat precious gospel are influential on the mindsof men, they produce peace on earth, and loveitowards each other. The first effect of thejgospel at the city of Lattakoo, towards theleastern side of Africa, was to dispose the kingand chiefs of that nation to come to a publicresolution, to go no more upon plundering ex¬peditions against other tribes. Many of theconverted heathens also in South Africa havecontributed very liberally of their little pro¬perty to assist in sending the gospel to otherregions where it has not penetrated.In the latter end of the year 1818, MrMoffat contemplated visiting Cape Town, andthe idea darted into his mind, that Africanerwould do well to accompany him, and accord-(ingly he made the proposal to him. “The goodiman,” says Mr Moffat, “looked at me againIand again, gravely asking whether I were inearnest, and seemed fain to ask if I were inany senses too; adding, with great fervour, ‘Ilihad thought you loved me, and do you adviseime to go to the government, to be hung up asa spectacle of public justice ?’ and putting his(hand to his head, he asked, ‘ Do you not knowLIFE OF AFRICANER.14that I am an outlaw, and that 1000 rix-dollarshave been offered for this poor head f Thesedifficulties I endeavoured to remove, by assur¬ing him that the results would be most satis¬factory to himself, as well as to the Governorof the Cape. Here Africaner exhibited hislively faith in the gracious promises of God, byreplying, ‘ I shall deliberate, and commit, (or,as he used the word according to the Dutchtranslation,) roll my way upon the Lord; I knowhe will not leave me.’“ During three days, this subject was one otpublic discussion, and more than one came tfflme with grave looks, asking if I had advisedAfricaner to go to the Cape. On the third daythe point was decided, and we made prepar¬ations for our departure, after having madethe necessary arrangements for continuing themeans of instruction during my absence. Nearlyall the inhabitants accompanied us half a day’sjourney to the banks of the Orange River,where we had to wait several days, it havingoverflowed all its banks. The kindness of thepeople, and the tears which were shed whenwe parted from them, were deeply affecting.“Arriving at Pella, (the place as before statedto which some of the people from Warm BatMhad retired when the latter was destroyed byAfricaner,) we had a feast fit for heaven-borrsouls, and subjects to which the seraphim abovemight have tuned their golden lyres. Mermet who had not seen each other since theyhad joined in mutual combat for each other’swoe; met—warrior with warrior, bearing irtheir hands the olive branch, secure under thepanoply of peace and love. They talked oiHim who had subdued both without a sworeLIFE OF AFRICANER.15or spear, and each bosom swelled with purestifriendship, and exhibited another trophy des-utined to adorn the triumph of the Prince of' Peace. Here I again met with Mr Bartlettand family, who, with the chief and people ofIthe station, loaded us with kindness.I “ We spent some pleasant days, while thesubject of getting Africaner safely through theterritories of the farmers to the Cape was thetheme of much conversation. To some, thestep seemed somewhat hazardous. Africanerand I had fully discussed the point beforeleaving the station ; and I was confident ofsuccess. Though a chief, there was no needlof laying aside any thing like royalty with aview to travel in disguise. Of two substantialshirts left, I gave him one; he had a pair ofleather trowsers, a duffel jacket much theworse for wear, and an old hat neither whitenor black ; and my own garb was scarcely morerefined. Asa farther precaution, it was agreeddhat for once I should be the chief, and heshould assume the appearance of a servant,when it was desirable, and pass for one of myattendants.j “ Ludicrous as the picture may appear, the{subject was a grave one, and the season(solemn and important. Often did I lift up myJieart to Him in whose hands are the hearts ofmen, that his presence might go with us.fit might here be remarked once for all, that(the Hutch farmers, notwithstanding all thatjiias been said against them by some travellers,!are, as a people, exceedingly hospitable andlikind to strangers. Exceptions there are, but[these are few, and perhaps more rare than intinny country under the sun. Some of theseLIFE OF AFRICAN EH.] 6worthy people on the borders of the coloncongratulated me on returning alive, havinoften heard, as they said, that I had been Ion.since murdered by Africaner. Much wondeiwas expressed at my narrow escape from sue:a monster of cruelty, the report having bee:spread that Mr Ebner had but just escape'with the skin of his teeth. While some wouliscarcely credit my identity, my testimony ato the entire reformation of Africaner’s character and his conversion was discarded as theffusion of a frenzied brain. It sometimes atforded no little entertainment to Africaner anthe Namaquas to hear a farmer denounce thisupposed irreclaimable savage. There weronly a few, however, who were sceptical othis subject. At one farm, a novel scene exhibited the state of feeling respecting Africaner and myself, and likewise displayed thpower of Divine grace under peculiar circumstances. It was necessary, from the scarcitof water, to call at such houses as lay in ouiroad. The farmer referred to was a good main the best sense of the word ; and he and hiwife had both shewn me kindness on my wato Namaqua-land. On approaching the housewhich was on an eminence, I directed my me1to take the waggon to the valley below, whilI walked toward the house. The farmer, seeing a stranger, came slowly down the descentto meet me. When within a few yards, 1 addressed him in the usual way, and, stretchingout my hand, expressed my pleasure at seein:him again. He put his hand behind him, an*asked me, rather wildly, who I was. I replietthat I was Moffat, expressing my wonder thahe should have forgotten mo. ‘ Moffat !’ hI.irF. or AFHICAXEU.17ir<'joined, in a faltering voice ; ‘ it is your gh-ost Pland moved some steps backward. ‘ I am nojjghost.’ ‘ Don’t come near me !’ he exclaimed ;|‘ you have been long murdered by Africaner.’1‘ Hut / am no ghost,’ I said, feeling my hands,nas if to convince him and myself, too, of mymateriality ; but his alarm only increased.ii‘ Everybody says you were murdered ; and aman told me he had seen your bones ;’ and hecontinued to gaze at me, to the no small asto¬nishment of the good wife and children, whowere standing at the door, as also to that ofnny people, who were looking on from the wag¬gon below. At length, he extended his trem¬bling hand, saying, ‘ When did you rise fromtithe dead V As he feared my presence wouldiialarm his wife, we bent our steps towards thewaggon, and Africaner was the subject of ouri conversation. I gave him in a few words myliviews of his present character, saying, ‘He isnnow a truly good man.’ To which he replied,|I‘ I can believe almost any thing you say, buti that I cannot credit; there are seven wondersin the world, that would be the eighth.’ Ifjappealed to the displays of Divine grace in a(Paul, a Manasseh, and referred to his own ex-eperience. He replied, these were another de-teeription of men, but that Africaner was oneijof the accursed sons of Ham, enumerating(some of the atrocities of which he had beenllguilty. By this time we were standing withAfricaner at our feet, on whose countenancemt a smile, well knowing the prejudices ofsome of the farmers. The farmer closed theconversation by saying, with much earnestness,‘ Well, if what you assert be true respectingthat man, I have only one wish, and that is, to18LIFE OF AFRICANER.see him before I die ; and when you return, assure as the sun is over our heads, I will go withyou to see him, though he killed my own uncle.’I was not before aware of this fact, and nowfelt some hesitation whether to discover to himthe object of his wonder; but knowing the sin¬cerity of the farmer, and the goodness of hisdisposition, I said, ‘ This, then, is Africaner !’He started back, looking intensely at the man,as if he had just dropped from the clouds.‘Are you Africaner?’ he exclaimed. He arose,doffed his old hat, and, making a polite bow,answered, ‘ I am.’ The farmer seemed thun¬der-struck ; but when, by a few questions, hehad assured himself of the fact, that the for¬mer bugbear of the border stood before him,now meek and lamb-like in his whole deport¬ment, he lifted up his eyes, and exclaimed, ‘ 0God, what a miracle of thy power ! what can¬not thy grace accomplish !’ The kind farmer,and his no less hospitable wife, now' abundantlysupplied our wants; but we hastened our de¬parture, lest the intelligence might get abroadthat Africaner w7as with me, and bring un¬pleasant visitors.‘‘On arriving at Cape Town, I waited on hisExcellency the Governor, Lord Charles Somer¬set, who appeared to receive with considerablescepticism my testimony that I had broughtthe far-famed Africaner on a visit to his Ex¬cellency. The following day was appointed foran interview, when the chief was received byLord Charles with great affability and kind¬ness ; and he expressed his pleasure at seeingthus before him, one who had formerly beenthe scourge of the country, and the terror oftho border colonists. His Excellency was evi-LIFE OF AFRICANER.19dently much struck with this result of mission¬ary enterprise, the benefit of which he hadsometimes doubted. I remembered, when Ifirst arrived at Cape Town, the reply to mymemorial for permission to proceed to my des¬tination in Great Namaqua-land was, that hisExcellency had cogent reasons for not comply¬ing with my request, and I was obliged to re¬main eight months in the colony: this timewas not, however, lost, for it was turned to ad¬vantage by learning the Dutch language, andattending to other preliminaries for a mission¬ary campaign. Whatever he might think ofhis former views, his Excellency was now con¬vinced that a most important point had been! gained ; and, as a testimony of his good feel-i ing, he presented Africaner with an excellentwaggon, value eighty pounds sterling.”Africaner’s appearance in Cape Town ex¬cited considerable attention, as his name andexploits had been familiar to many of its in¬habitants for more than twenty years. Manywere struck with the unexpected mildness andgentleness of his demeanour, and others withhis piety and accurate knowledge of the Scrip¬tures. His New Testament was a cheering. object of attention, it was so completely. thumbed and worn by use.As Mr Moffat, who had brought him to CapeTown, was to-join the mission at the city ofLattakoo, Africaner was asked to attend tothe instruction of his people himself, till theMissionary Society should be able to send outa teacher to supply the place of Mr Moffat.With groat modesty and diffidence he gave hisconsent.A friend in Cape Town, when noticing to20LIFE OF AFRICANER.him the valuable present of a waggon whicthe government had made to him, remark*that he must be very thankful for such a maiof their esteem.“ I am,” said he, “ truly thankful to goverment for the favour they have done me in thinstance; but favours of this nature to porsoilike me are heavy to bear. The farmers btween this and Namaqua-land would minrather hear that I had been executed at CaiTown, than that I had received any markfavour from government. This circumstanwill, I fear, increase their hatred against m.under the influence of this spirit, every distarance which may take place on the bordersthe colony will be ascribed to me ; and theis nothing I more dread, than that the goverment should suppose me capable of ingratude.”These were singular remarks from a mswho, only six years before, had been the sava,leader of a savage tribe, far from the reidence of civilized men, and seeking to destrithem.While halting for a few days at Tulbagh,town sixty miles from Cape Town, on histurn to his own country, Africaner was exposto a severe trial of temper, which affordedopportunity of shewing his Christian spirit,woman, under the influence of prejudice, elcited by his former character, meeting himthe public street, followed him for some tinjas Shimei followed king David, calling aflhim with all her might, and heaping upon hall tho coarse and bad names which she co'think of. Reaching the place where his peo;were standing by his waggon, with a numLIFE OF AFRICANER.21>f persons whom this woman had drawn to¬gether still following him, his only remarksvere—“ This is hard to bear; but it is part>f my cross, and I must take it up.”At Tulbagh, Africaner took an affectionateurewell of his missionary friend, Mr Moffat,i/ho was on his way, with the deputation, tolisit the Society’s stations on the eastern coastf the colony ; after which he was to proceedp Lattakoo, to assist in the mission which had'een for some time established in that city,fricaner travelled along the western side oflie colony towards his own country, where he;'rived in safety a few weeks after, to theireat joy of his friends at home.1, This was the first time he had been entirelyithout a missionary since his conversion tohristianity. Now, the rule and the religiousIstruction of his people entirely devolved oniimself. He, being by grace an humble man,It it a weighty concern, and saw it necessaryI look constantly to God for wisdom to directid grace to support him in fulfilling theities connected with his double character ofuler and teacher.JAfricaner continued to labour amongst hisnople for about a year, when he believed Mrnoffat must by that time have taken up hisfeidence at Lattakoo. He therefore resolvedtj pay him a visit, and carry with him, in hisijiggon, the books and furniture Mr Moffatd left behind him at the kraal. This was atig journey across the continent, and a greatrt of it was over deep sand ; but the seasonjjcouraged him, being June, which is therddle month in a South African winter, con-iraiuently the coolest season in the year. HeMFE OF AFRICANER.22readied Lattakoo in the middle of July 1S2C1where he received a most hearty welcome ft-orjthe missionary brethren and sisters there, anjhe delivered, in good condition, the bookwhich he had brought with him.This kind service was done from gratituiand pure Christian affection towards the milsionary. It was, indeed, a rare instance of di [interested benevolence, as the journey to ailfrom Lattakoo occupied full three months. Lflmade no boast of it, and looked for no recoilpence. While remaining at Lattakoo, he coducted himself with much Christian meekncand propriety, and waited patiently till the illputation finally left that city.He and his people made part of the caravsjfor upwards of a hundred miles, until thfreached I3erend's-Place, which is the town nei|est to Lattakoo, in the Griqua country :chiefly belonged to Berend, an old Griqua chi IThe meeting between Africaner and this chiwas truly interesting, they having not seen ojanother for four-and-twenty years, when at tihead of their tribes they had fought for fldays on the banks of the Great Orange ItivlBeing now both converts to the faith of Chriland having obtained mercy of the Lord,their former animosities were laid aside, ti;saluted each other as friends, and friends)the gospel of Christ.These chiefs, followed by their people, walled together to the tent, when all united in si fing a hymn of praise to God, and listeningan address from the invitation of God toends of the earth to look to him, and toalone, for salvation. After which, the two chjknelt at the same stool before the peacI.1FE OF AFRKU/NER.23hrone of the Redeemer; when Rerend, thelenior chief, offered up a prayer to God. Thejcene was highly interesting ; they were likewions changed into lambs^ their hatred and fe-!)city having been removed by the power ofie gospel; indeed, when the Namaqua chiefas converted, he sent a message to the Gri-aa chiefs, confessing the injuries he had donehem in the days of his ignorance, and askingiiem, at the same time, to unite with him intomoting universal peace among the differenti§1De&'( to hi!not od Hiw orf bun tboO >looa ind1 rJ’he two chiefs were much together till therternoon of the next day, when, after takingi affecting farewell, Africaner, with his wag-|in and people, set off to the westward inrder to cross over to Namaqua-Iand, and the;st of the caravan travelled south, in theirection of Cape Town, from which they werejstant about seven hundred miles.lOn reaching home, Africaner again resumed© religious instructions of his people, and re-iiined constantly with them till his final re¬oval to the everlasting world.flHow long his last illness continued we areVit informed; but when he found his end ap-Ibaching, like Joshua, he called all his peopleIund him, and gave them directions concern-their future conduct.‘ We are not,” said he, “ what we once were,ages, but men professing to be taught ac-ding to the gospel: let us, then, do accord-vly. Live peaceably with all men, if possible;il if impossible, consult those who are placedr you before you engage in any thing. Re-fin together as you have done since 1 knewU, that when the directors think fit to sendLIFE OF AFRICANER.! ready to receivJsent you as on24you a missionary, you may behim. Behave to the teachersent of God, as I have great hope that Gowill bless you in this respect when I am gonto heaven. I feel that I love God, and thahe hath done much for me, of which I artotally unworthy.“ My former life is stained with blood, beJesus Christ has pardoned me, and I am gointo heaven. Oh ! beware of falling into ttsame evils into which I have led you frequently*but seek God, and he will be found of youdirect you.”Soon after delivering the above address,died in peace, a monument of redeeming merand grace.From the time of his conversion to Godthe day of his death, he always conducted hhself in his family and among his people inmanner very honourable to his professionChristianity, acting the part of the Christiparent and Christian master.While his people were without a missiona-he continued with much humility, zeal, dgence, and prayer, to supply as well ascould the place of a teacher. On the Lord she expounded to them the Word of God,which he was well fitted, having considera,natural talents, undissembled piety, and milexperimental acquaintance with his Bible.He had considerable influence amongdifferent tribes of Nama'quas by whom hesurrounded, and was able to render greatvice to the missionary cause among them.James Brydone, Printer, 17 South Hanover Street, JEdinburgll