1I^ THEHumorous ExpO FTO WHICH IS ADDEDyr The Farmer s witty Remarkson the Dog-Tax- *THEINTRIGUES of MALLY DYVER.Now Jeany Dyver fiic is dead,H-.r dau»uter Maily doth Tucceed ;Her natne in London's known Full wd!,But who's her father non -• can tell.0 rare Mally Dyver !0 rare Mally 0 !Young Milly’s beau iful and fair,yVitn rofv ch ks, an * coai-black hair;A handfomt fla spe, and rolling eyeYoung men tak e^re Ihe’s wond’rous fly.0 rare Mally Dyver / &c.Mall being a maid of noted fame,To Briflol city briik'y came;One day fhe went to tak* the air,How (he^behiv’d you Toon fhall hear.0 rare Mally Dyver! See, -A rich old Mifer near the'Change, vHe was inflam'd with Mally’s charms,AUho’ his age was Teventy-thr^e,He dearly lov’d her company.0 rare Mally Dyver! Sec,A coach-ard fix he did prepare,His fw^eth'a t Mallv for to air;A v itc1', luiz rs and <roldtn rings,Wi.h many oih< ' c dly things.0 rare Malty Dyver ! &c.Meft cunningly fbe did behave,This rich old Mifer to deceive ;, She feafeh’d his baggs, as I am told,r Whereio fh£ fr ui d great ftoi e of gold.0 rare Mally Dyver !Young Maily, with her golden prize,i For London town ftrui^ht-way fat: flies;Where (he fet up i D^ury Lane,, And end’d h:\ hour , Hie Vi in’s Inn.0 rare Mally Dyver! See.Both Lords and: Knights, I do declare.For MdUy'« houf they do e; quire,Thi» Qir.cn ot H u l «ts to embraceTho’ voiit f (b -m'. ^nd tr ,< of grace 10 rare Mally Dyver! See.An Irifh Loid, a bulk young fpark,He met with M lly in the d.trk,Aitho’ his gold was very large,ill -To him Are gave a free di{’charge.O rare Mally Dyver! Sec.The next was a Juftice of the Peace,IHe came young Mai y to embrace;He thought young Maily to d;ceive,But cunningly (lie did t-ehave.0 rare Mally Dyver l Sec.She fays. Kind Sir, if you incline,I’ll bring you one will pkafe your mindShe fix’d the juftice to the lifeShe fent and brought to him his wife!0 rare Mally Dyver! Sec. .His wife fhe in a pcifion rote,And fays, Huiband, 1 do (uppofeYou love this place bettei ti;an me,'No credit to your family.0 rare Molly Dyverl &c. xI did this only for to tryTo find out Mally’s honcfiy;She is an honeft, pill I fin’As ever dwelt in Drury-Lane.0 rare Mally DyVcr ! & c.The rich old Mifer, as l heard fay,For London town he took his way,His fwelfetheait Mally to attack,But his attempts were ail too late.0 rare Mally Dyver ! &c.When that young Mally Dyver found.Her old fweetheart was come to t6wn,She hir'd another in her place,Which prov’d the Mifer's lacl difgrace.Q rare Mally Dyver ! &c.The honfe vvas.fearched with all fpeedIn which he found t^he fervanl maid;No fhe to Newgate Itraight was fern,But Mally did the fuit prevent.0 rare Mally Dyver! See,She hir’d a Lawyer in the town,To whom the gave full fifty pound.T o plead her caufe before them all:How fhe behav’d, declare I fhall.0 rare. Mally Dyver i Sec,( 5 )The day being come, (he muft appear,Before the Judge, as you (hall hear,it put the MUer in furprife,He haidly could believe his eyes*0 rare Mally Dyver ! See.She H’-ys, Kir^d Sir, you are to blame;,her fcandalizing of my name;1 never faw you in my life,1 neither am your whore nor wifei0 rare Mally Dyver! See.The Liwyer boldly pled her caufe,And laid, According to our Laws,Five pounds each hour fhe mull receive,Which fum to her he quUkly gave.0 t'are Mally Dyver ! Sec.Young Mally hearing of this thing,O’er a full bowl began to ling 1Saying, if I live to feventy-three,What a rich old woman 1 fliall be«0 rare Mally Dyver! See. _ •Altho’ my mother loft her life,For cockling of an Earl’s wife, ,,Yet Mally and her i'porting maids,Good Irilh have for Englifh blads* %0 rare Mally Dyver!0 rare Mally 0%Tfi EiTAX’D DOGS’ GARLAND.Upon the road, the other day,I chanc'd to overtake, Sir,Two country-men upon the rcmd,Who great complaint did make, Sir.One of the two ri»ht mournful faid,Oh 1 have you heard the news, Sir,A heavy tax is laid on Dogs,Which are of fo great ufe, Sir.Six Shillings now we all mufl: pay,[f that a Dog we keep, Sir,Poor people cannot this afford,Tho’ they fhould lofe their fheep, Sir.I’m fevenly years, or thereabout,My neighbour’s fixty-fax, Sir,But never faw the like of this,To lay 6n Dogs a tax, Sir.Wow man, I think, there’s mony ways,To clear the nation^ load, Sir,Than to opprefs a poor man fo,acd tax his very Dog, Sir.This morning, or I came frae hame,1 faw three Collies die, Sir,Their Owner’s could not pay die tax,Tho’t had been but'Shillings three, Sir.( 7 )0 if they had but come to me,Or yet to Madge, my wife, Sir,This year’s taxation we would pay’d,To fav’d their Coliie’s life, Sir.My heart was was to ice the brutesihare fic untimely fate, Sir,The country fure mufl be light poor,when thus th*y uphold the {late, Sir.There’s mony Dhgs, I frankly own,That's ufelefs for tc keep, Sir;But country Collies ufeful are.For herding of our (heep, Sir.My Collie is an unco beafl,And meikle fenfe hS has, Sir,And when the fheep ftrays o’er far aff,He gi’es them mony a chafe, Sir,1 canna want my Collie dog,Mair than meat to my wime, Sir;For turning either horfe or nout,He is a hunter fine, Sir.He never hunts them by the head,But ay grips at their heels, Sir;And gathers fafely a’ the flock,When running thro’ the fields, SifTHe’s careful o’ the houfe at night,And when that any ill, Sir,Is likely for to ceme on me,He barks baith loud and ihrill, Sir./ .( 8 )Were’t not for him the robbers fareWould take from me my gear- ;Bat Collie gi’es a lively bark>When danger it is near, Sir.At kirk or fair there’s ne’er a dog,Wi’ Collie can compare, Sir;The other day, upon the road,He catch’d a running hare Sir.It’s very right that ufelefs DogsShould pay a handfome tax. Sir;Each one fhould twenty (hillings p:.y,If Collies mull pay fax, Sir.The happy time will yet arrive,I hops the time to fee, Sir,When ufelefs Dogs will all be barg’d,And Collie Dogs gae free, Sir.FINIS.fT. Johnftort, Printer, Falkirk- iSoa j‘tViiere a g*od Assortment of Pamphlets may b: tin Wholcfale on the Iov.ch termi.