THETragical HistoryOF,GeorgeBARNWELL. .-■ ■„ THELOMiDON * ’PHENTICE.|l • ; i . • .' HJT ''<41. :<2, ’< - r!1FOUNDED ONFALKIRK:PRINTED BY T. JOHNSTON.THETRAGICAL HISTORYOFGeorge Barnwell.M R. B ARNWELL, the father of George,was the worthy and pious Rector of Hanworth;an ornament to society, and a blessing to thoseamiable beings who formed his domestic circle.An illness, with which he was suddenly at¬tacked, threatened his speedy dissolution: mortification had nearly advanced to its laststage, and he had heard with placid resignation,the opinion <jf his Physician. Though he feltno pangs of guilt, no dread of future worlds, !and though perfectly content to submit to thewill of his Creator, and resign his soul to- himthat gave it; yet there were attractions whoseresistless force made him yet wish for a longerexistence. Around that couch from which hewas never to rise, knelt objects, that awakenedin his breast the feeling of a husband father,and friend. His amiable wife too deeplyaffected to weep, gazed alternately on her ex¬piring husband, and on those who were soonto be the orphan pledges of his love, with thepiercing wildness of despair. Their son ayouth of sixteen held his father’s hand claspedbetween his own, and bent his face over it toconceal his tears. A daughter who was some.3what younger, with tears and swelling sighs! mingled ejaculations to the Almighty, to sparei a life so dear. At the toot of the bed stoodthe benevolent friend and skilful physician of: the Rector, whose serene countenance he ap¬peared contempHiting with pioasme. ‘I couldhave wishoa (said Mr darn well) that my.1 brother had arrived; I would have retired1 from the scenes of this live with less regret,il had I committed these my only cares to his1 kind keeping. But his own good heart will1 suggest to him all I could have said.”— Sir James Barnwell, the brother to whom heelluded, entered the room as he was speaking.The knight, after a pause, approached theexpiring Rector, and an affecting farewell tookplace. Tears rolled down the paie cheeks ofMr. Barnwell; he pressed Sir James’s hand,and cast a meaning look on his family ; thenIsunk exhausted on his pillow. “ Think of thisworld no more, my brother (said Sir James)from this moment, this is my wife, these aremy children, and all I have is theirs.” '■ My God, I thank thee,” exclaimed the Rector,and expired.The grief of this aimhblo family for theirirreparable loss, is better felt than discribed.JSir James was the first to cal! the attentionof his sister in law from the tomb, which heldher affections, to the duties she owed herself,Iser children, aud society. 111 am a lone man.(said the Knight) and with the blessing ofHeaven, have acquired by my honest endeav-turs more riches than ] shall ever spend. Viy brother, I know, accumulated in another-4• .... . —4way; his was the treasure of the mind a |proper possession, doubtless for a clergyman, |but for which his heirs are little or nothing fthe better. After the loss you have sustained,my dear sister, I am sure your inclination must |be to quite this place as soon as possible    1I insist upon you and yours accompanying me |to my old mansion, where you sl^al! have leasure jto discuss a plan I have in contemplation to |make us ail happy.” A proposal so congenial Ito their feelings w?s readily accepted by the jjBarnwells; and, as soon as the requsite ar- Jrangements were made, they set oft’ to the seat Ibelonging to the benevolent Knight.Adjoining the castle of Sir James, stood theremains of one of those Ctmenteries for theliving, called Monasteries. One of the Aislesof the Chapel still remained in its original state,and afforded conversation for all the lovers ofromance. Spectres of all sizes and shapes, ifeither sex, hid been seen by moon er torch Ilights, playing singular antic, in the old Abbey IChapel! At one time it was a Nun! at others fa Monk ! and now assumed the terrific appear- f-ance of a fallen angel, dancing along the Aislesin a bcautious form, to notes of delightfulharmony! Among other subjects which en- |grossed the attention of the company at the jKnight’s table, a few days after his return |from the Rectory, was the haunted Aisle, which])became a general topic of conversation. After :various stories had been related of different iappearance, sir James declared that he wouldnot absolutely deny belief in all stories of thiskind, nor would implicity give credit to all lie)5beard. “ What thinks my nephew?” said he.George blushed deeply; and replied that hemust confess he had been taught to considertalcs of- this description as ridiculous   “Ridiculous! (exclaimed Sir James Chaplain,)ridiculous young gentlemen, and wherefore,let me ask yon?” “Because being irrecon-edeabie to truth and nature, they are beneaththe dignitv of serious argument.” Eliza Barn¬well, whose modesty did not permit her totrouble the company with her observations,treasure.) in her memory all that had been saidconcerning the Abbey. When she retired to. her chamber the window of which commandeda view of the ruins site questioned the servantwho attended her concerning the story of thehaunted Aisle; the ercongruous narrative otHannah increased her curiosity, a.nd she resolved[ to pay a visit to the Abbey on the followingI] morning as soon as she arose.(Sleep did not conquer the senses of Elizawith its usual ease. A slight slumber broughtwith it the following dream: Eliza imaginedthat she had just entered the haunted Aisle,when a tomb that stood at the entrance, ap¬peared to rock at her approach. It then be-j came enveloped in an ascending vdpour! tim(Abbey ruins echoed the groans cf one, as itin tire agonies of death! and as the vapourdispersed, there appeared kneeling on a tomb,a most beautiful female ! Her eyes swelled withweeping, her hair dishevelled, and blood trick¬ling from her wounded breast; while her handsin vain attempted to remove a dagger whosei point was buried in tier bosom. Eliza’s attend6tlon to this Spetcre was so intense, that she didnot notice the fonn of a man, who stood con¬templating with smiles the agony of the female,until the sound of a harp which he touched ina rapid manner, aroused her. He was remark¬ably handsome, and his voice, which accom¬panied the harp was melodious. But the fairmaid was struck with horror, when she foundhis verses were expressive of the pleasure hefelt at the heart-rending scene before her! Eliza awoke with terror from her dream, anddoubted for some time whether what she hadseen and heard, were not real. Just as she hadovercome the impressions arising from so hor¬rible a vision,, the night-wind wafted by thecasement of her chamber, the. tone of an instru¬ment so similar to that which she had heard infancy, that, starting up, she drew aside the cur¬tain. under apprehension of beholding awakethe vision of her sleep. The chamber was intotal darkness, but the same sounds were re- -jpeated. She left her bed and opening thecasement she heard them more distinctly, and 3was convinced they came from the Abbey. In a few moments all was silent, and she behelda lighted torch borne along tire ruins! but thenight was too dark to discein the person thatcarried it. That music was not imaginary,she was convinced; but for what purpose anyone would ramble among the mouldering tomb:-,she had yet to learn. In the morning, terrified •by the events of the night. Eiiza dropt her in- •tention of visiting the Abbey alone; but un- 4burthened her mind to her beloved brother.7“ There is (said George) a singular concid-1 ence in your dream wjtii the music you heard;we will take a ramble to the Abbey this even¬ing and should there be in the old Aisle a tomb! resembling that in your dream, l think we|i should relate the whole circumstance to Sir! James. Murder (added the youth) is a crimebeyond all other offensive to God; and if,in our drys, he display a miracle, I can con¬ceive nothing more likely to occasion his in-|| terference than the detection of so foul a; crime.”At dinner they joined a numerous circle ofthe neigbouring gentry. It was the. customI of Sir James to invite them all without ex-:it ception once a year. At other times he in-tij dulged himself in a selection according to bisI taste. On this occasion he relinquished his|j| prejudices, and there were at his table, indi-ji! vidual of as various a cast as a circuit of ten|i miles round contained. Among those visitors,|» was one most opposite to the Knight in hisid principles and manners ; Mr. Mental was sup-jfl posed to be equally averse from all kings andjtj all religions. His dress and figure were thejj most singular to be imagined. lie was ofBa large make, but thin ; his face pale, his hairblack, and cropped short in his neck ; his dressalways the same, a suit of plain brown cloth.He would eat nothing that had ever enjoyedlile : nothing in which sugar was an ingredient;and his drink was water. He never smiled,(and the only pleasure he appeared to enjoy,I was the triumph of argument. The evils ofsociety were his dearest topic, and the claimof his felicity was to render discontent tri¬umphant. He had been a neighbour ofSir James’s for many years, but saw no com¬pany at his own house, and seldom acceptedan invitation from any other; whenever hedid, it was his invariable custom to single outone from the young part of the company, withwhom he would abruptly 6nter into conversa¬tion. Young Barnwell was singled out /or this ■,purpose ; and they entered into a long disceurse,in which each appeared to fake an interest.Mental appeared ress and less disgusting in theeyes of George, and George delighted old IMental, who expressed a wish that this mightnot be the last of their conversation. “ Youare an inmate of Sir James’s, I presume.'’said he. <; For the present, (replied Barnwell) ;b'ut in a few weeks I shall quite this placefor London,■' London ! ‘ (cried Mental.)What takes you to that focus of corruption andfolly ?" “ My Uncle has most generously |entered into a treaty with a merchant there,-a share of whose concern is to become snineafter the usual initation.4’ “ A merchant!(exclaimed Mental,) Can you condemn your Inoble faculties to courses of Exchange ? Haveyou thought what you ace about to undertake!"As you value your happiness for life reflect;now is the important moment, the periodof your existance, "that, will glid with pleasure,or darken with discontent, every scene as yetbehind the veil of time: I feel a lively interestin your welfare, and if you can trust yourselfwith me for an hour to-morrow, l will venture tosay you wfll not regret it.”1 .9A summer’s day drew towards. its elose;the well dressed guests of the worthy Knighti departed, and the family were once more left to; to themselves.Eliza, with a palpitating heart, accompaniedi her brother t® the Abbey. They were at thei entrance of the Aisle; Eliza trembled. 1 “Stay, (said George,) it is dark, and we arej far from the house; I have little dread ofI ghosts, but it is not impossible that this retreatmay be the rendezvous of beings less merciful,and more powerful than mere spectres, Do you wait a moment behind this old column,and listen attentively: I will go on, shouldthere be any danger, you will hear my cries;then run as fast as possible to the house andprocure assistance.” Eliza’s remonstrance onthe score of his personal danger were in vain,. and she clung to the pillar in anxious expecta-tion. A few minutes elapsed; Eliza grewI impatient, at length she heard footsteps ap¬proaching !—She left her retreat, thinking tomeet her brother when a form muffled ina long black cloak, and masked, met her atthe entrance of the Aisle. She screamed !—In an instant George was at her elbow; butthe cause of her alarm had vanished. “ SurelyI cannot be deceived, (said Barnwell,) it was,a man; I saw him distinctly; a black, cloakf and mask were lying ®n the tomb, which youdescribed from your dream ; as I approached it,a man, who was kneeling near it, started up,1 hurried on the disguise, and presenting a pistol,I exclaimed, “ I am discovered !—Ere I hadrecovered my surprise, he was gone.”  10They walked swiftly towards the house; the, family were assembled at supper, and the louksof Eliza served as a preface to George’snarrative.“I have heard, (said Sir James.) stories ofthis nature frequently repeated; but till now ,I own, 1 never paid a serious attention to them;what has now happened, has determined meto take some active measures towards unravelingthe apparent mystery.”In the morning, the Knight, with the Chap¬lain and George, sallied forth, a few armeddomestics having proceeded them. Arrivedat the Aisle, Sir James demanded of his ne¬phew, “ Are you sure that on this tomb ycusaw a cloak and mask ; there you also saw a mankneeling near it; saw him rise and array himselfin ids cloak ? Again I say are you sure nopart of this scene was imagination ? ’ l’ I amcertain, (replied the youth) that i beheld allthat 1 have stated. Could not this tomb bemoved? Were we in the forests of Germany,Kshould be induced to think that it coversthe door of fome subterraneous retreat..’' “ Aye Sir. (said Joseph, an aged domestic ofthe Knight’s) you are in the right; to be sureit is no concern of mine, but if I was a Magi¬strate, ties here monument should be pulleddown, and dug under, amt my life on it, murderlies at the bottom.” ‘That ctnnot be donewithout the consent of the owner, (said SirJames) or some better grounds of suspicion'than we have at present.” Do not you ownthese mins, Sir?” said George, “Not this11I part of them ; al! the land on this side, the eldertrees belongs to the next estate.” Georgeasked the name of the owner ? “ Mr. Mental,the cynic whom yon saw yesterday at myhouse. VViiat do you start at, nephew?” j “ Nothing Sir. (replied the youth, hesitating.)but Mr Mental is a strange man.’’ “ Ah !! God forgive him, (said Joseph,) if all thatpeople say be true. ’ “ God cannot forgivehim, (rejoined the Chaplain) he is an Atheist.*’ij “ He is undoubted a sigular being, (said thei Knight,) and people will talk, although no-1 body, it seems, knows who or what he is.I But I have heard old men. who remember hisfirst coming to reside here, whisper strangestories.1’-i V After a fruitless search, the party returnedhome. A variety of conjectures were raisedii in the fertile brain of the youth, all pointingf to Mental. He conceived him to be the man1 he had seen at the tomb on the preceding night;he imagined the voice he heard to be thatgentleman; and built on these impressionsa suspicion to the disadvantage of his character,Then his heart rebuked him for so illiberala conclusion, from a train of mere'accidents;he recollected the invitation he had received,and resolved immediately to visit him. Hekept his intended visit a secret from the family,and merely observed, tbaf he was going totake a stroll round the village. The residenceof Mr. Mental was a large old fashioned house,• containing many rooms, of which three onlywere in use; one served as a kitchin andchamber fot- an old woman, his only domestic;12a second was the sitting, eating, and sleepingroom for her master; and the third was hisstudy. George rang at the iron-gate f theaged dame appeared at a window, and demandedhis business. Having informed iier master,the youth was admitted. He w'as conductedto an apartment, wdiere Sarah (ids old domestic)told him that Mental would come to him.—After some time spent in contemplating themptly furniture of the appartment, Georgeventured to call Sarah, and informed her, thatif her master was then engaged he would take iacoher opportunity of waiting on him. “ Asfor that, Sir, come when you will, you will•find him at his studies.”—“Shall I go to him?”said George. “ God forbid !” exclaimed Saiah ;“ I have been here these twenty years, andno living soul but himself has been in thatStudy.—” At this moment Evlental enteredthe room. “Are you really come?” said he. :“ Has curiosty urged your compliance withmy request ?—Be honest Sir, your doubtlesswondered how en old fellow like myself could jat first sight take an attachment to yeur coun¬tenance. Now, tell me, Sir, frankly, whatkind of man you think me !” “ Formingsolely from appearances, my ideas,” repliedBarnwell, “ I should suppose you a disappointedman, whom misfortune had induced to quarrelwith the world.” The very notions” said tMental, ‘ 1 should have imbibed had I seenmy present resemblance at your age, for then II viewed mankind through the same fairy |talescope that you do now; then my delighted Bfancy saw such guests on earth as friendship, ||sympathy, and love. ’fis delusion all!—Do I.13I not know u?—Have I not felt it?—Oh!”—i The gesture that accompanied this apostraphe,was that of the extremest anguish. Georgewas affected, and Mental perceived the emo¬tions he had caused. “ Nay. nay,” said he,i “ I meant not to sinuate that I am peculiarlywretclred; it is the common lot, the destinyof man.— If the detail would not be thoughttiresome, there are particulars in my ownexperience, that might perhaps, afford youa lessen. I have not lor years talked of myself::to others; but if you would like to listen tojjmy tala, nor hold your time ill spent—”“ I should ill deserve so great a favour, ’ in-aterrupted Barnwell, “if I could estimate itsi worth no better.1’I t“ You have/’ said Mental, “ a heart of•l sensibility, and a mind superior to your years.I Hold !.think not I compliment, for in myi opinion the possessing them is a matter that' calls for condolence more than congratulation.But to my story.‘ My father was a tradesman,, who was un-I fortunate in the concerns he undertook, forsome years before his death ; and, at last, broken? hearted with disappointments, sunk poor to| tiie grave. My mother had gone there longj before; and at the demise of my father, I wastheir only living descendant. Ete I was eightyears old I left my native roof, and becamea member of the public school at Eton.—Success favoured my endeavours, and beforeI was thirteen years old, I was qualified for14the University, and my fancy already placedmu as struggling for academical distinctien.—But a most unhappy reverse took place. My father died insolvent; and before myfourteen birth-day, a letter from his cousin,-and my benefactor informed me that, in con¬sequence of a failure in his speculations, hisfortune was impaired, and that he could not fulfilhis promise ot supporting me at the University, anddesired me to consider what trade I should like Trade, my soul sickened at the word Apprentice !horror was in the sound. I repaired to the house ofmy relation, and informed him ao respectfully asI could of my aversion to trade. He expostulatedwith me on the subject of such terms, that at lengthI yielded my consent to his plan, which was to bindme apprentice to a grocer, and I was to repair tomy future master on the next day. And now let me,Mr. Barnwell, conjure you to listen to me. Thethirst for knowledge is occasioned by an unquench¬able spark, and must be gratified, or will consume.Imagine not that I approve ofthat morbid sensibility,so often mistaken by its possessors for heaven borngenius, but the active principle, which neither ease 'nor gain can satisfy ; which soars in the regions ofsublime inquiry ; and that creative fancy, gazingwith eagle-eye, even on the source of light. Lethirri who feels the heavenly gust obey its sacredvoice; for I have contended with its power, knowthat genius is not to be subdued. He that submitsto smother it, seeks his own misery and deceives notonly himself but his friends. Every necessary wasprovided for meattheexpence of Mr. Darmvell,mybenefactor, and I bade him farewell, with a.sigh tomy school companions. I was received by Mr Nut¬ting, the grocer, and his wife, in a little room atthe back of the shop. They appeared plain sort ofijfolks neat in their dress, and precise in their dis-l course, but I soon found they were bigots to Cal-i vinism. I passed my month of approbation, and| with an aching heart signed my indentures. When: the business of the day was ended, my apartmentj was the kitchen, my companion an old woman, whowas the servant, and her. friend, a black cat. I: might have employed myself by reading, but un-1 fortunately her library consisted only of thePilgrim’s Progress, and a volujne of two sermons,. which at that time was little suited to my taste.“ I passed my time in this manner till my eigh¬teenth year, when Mr Nutting was sent for oneevening to visit a stranger, who had lately come tolodge at the next door, and-was now at the point ofdeath. This stranger was a man, who, having earlyin life obtained a considerable estate, had indulgedin every pleasure that a vitiated taste and corrupt| principles suggested. On a bed of sickness, his heartK smote him ; chance had led him fo the house he wasthen in ; the landlord was a strict Dissenter of thesame persuasion as Mr. Nutting whose sanctity andupright conduct had been so frequently proclaimedin the hearing of the dying man, that he requestedto see him, and to him made an ample confessionof his crimes, while he derived from his discoursea pleasing consolation. There was only one objectliving, for whom, in his present situation, he felt aiwconcern ; and that was a daughter, the fruit of an1 illicit amour in the west Indies. He had broughther up with the true affection of a father, devoteda considerable sum to her education and she nowresided as a private hoarder in the same school whereshe had received her tuition, and such was the confi¬dence he_placed in Mr. Nutting, that he made a willby which he bequethed an estate in Hertfordshire,and a consideraide property in the funds to his16daughter, on the express condition of our residingwith Mr Nutting, till her twenty-fifth year, unlessshe married before that time with his consent Mr Nutting was his sole Executor, and was to re¬ceive the interest of her property. The father died,4 Miss Ellison had visaed iiim at his lodgings, and hadheard of his intentions with respect to her. A daywas fixed for her removal, and I was ordered bymy mas ter to take a coach from H)de Park Cornerto Kensington andbnng MissEUisontotheStrand.She was not a beauty, her complexion was rathertinged with an olive hue, but her features were theindex of these inmates of the female breast, whichcharm the heart of man, sweetness of temper andconquering submission, while the expression of hereyes indicated a superior mind. 1 gazed and re¬ceived an impression nevei to be erased, no never.Miss Ellison brought with her a, large quantity ofbooks which had been carefully selected lor her useby Mrs Harries her late governess, among themwere the works of the immortal Shakespear These Mr Nutting strictly prohibited his wardfromreading, as he determined that none but works ofa religious tendency, that accorded with his own. ideas, should be perused by Eilir.or ; and I wasordered to replace them in a box and convey themto the loft. Here, mv doar George, ^instead of re¬tiring to my bed I passed most of each night.—I tasted every dish of knowledge, and found everydish a dainty. The spring of reason, that had beenstretched to impotence by the bigotry which 1 hadinsensibly imbibed to this family, seemed, by thisaccident, to have recovered its elasticity, ana oncemore resumed its operations to the prejudice ofsuperstition.1*Here Mental proposed breaking’off his story toanother opportunity. Barnwell took leave, withmany thanks for the confidence he had obtained,and returned to his uncle's.17This night George determined to watch amongthe ruins : and when the*rest of the family wereretired, he puton a box-coat, and taking a brace of: pistols repaired to the ruins.-At the same moment'asheentered thehaunted Aisle, he heard footstepsi, andhad scarce time to conceal himselfbehind someI fragments of stones, when the same masked figure,f that he had beheld the proeeedingevening, passsedi along bearing a lighted torch. Pleasantly the tone|ii of a harp struck his ear after a few interesting| moments, a voice accompanied the instrument.--| George could no longer resist the impulse of curi-|j osity: butcreepingsoftly,advancedalongtheAisle,;j the unknown sat on a little stool near the tomb onl| which lay his mark. The verses which he sung werei descriptive of the agony of his mind, and plainlyj porirayedkis being the murderer ofsomebeautiousI: female. Toe unknown arose Barnwell retiredi a few paces to a spot where he might remain un-ili observed.—“ Am I,*’ said the mourner, “evertot endure these pangs ? O that a bloV/ would end tjiem.Fool that I am, wdiy do 1 hesitate to try ? He'drewa pistol from his bosom saying. “ This ina momentbrings me to my—would 1 could save my fend.—But no, she did not cease to be when I plungedthis steel into her breast, (holding a dagger witha biood-stuined poirt) for still her ruthless spirit'haunts her murderer—steal peace from his pillow,crosses him in his very path—and here, even here,while like an outcast wretch, I mourn away mynights, it follows me and makes a hell!;’ He reclinedon the tomb, and covered his face with his hands.1 he suspicions pf George were just, his voice, hisface, proclaimed this murderer to be Mental—In a few moments he exclaimed, ■* Away this dreamof horror! Was she no. faithless as fair i'--0, Phy¬sician ! omnipotent, Physician Mental art thou turn¬ing Monk ?—Can intercession prevail with the Allispowerful more than his own benevolence ?”—-Nota syllable uttered by this miserable man, was lost to 'George. Three hours passed away, during which.Mental broke out in similar ejaculations, or playei 'upon a harp. As soon as a distant bell announcedthree, he removed a large stone which lay at sown 'distance from the tomb ; a kind of grove appeared,,in which he placed the harp, lamp, and the stool; '•then masked himself, arid left the Aisle. The nextmorning George contented himself with saying to ’the family, that he had been partly successful in his.research at the Abbey, and that he hoped in ashort time to be able to unravel the mystery.Various were the emotions that agitated Barnwell, ias he strolled to Mental’s house. When he was in -troduced into his presence, he trembled.-Mentalabruptly began with, “ How disimu.lar the mannersof the Nuttings were to those of Ellinor, she sub¬mitted without repining or sulleness to their modeof life. But she was no hypocrite, she ever avowedher dissent to their doctrines. Blessed with the con-tidence of this charming woman, my situation vvas.ichanged from the most cheerless to the most cheer¬ful. In the absence of the Nuttings we read, weconversed together, we wrote and submitted ourperformances to the criticisms of each other. I look¬ed forward with impatience to the termination of rayservitude, when I imagined I should burst forth intothe world as a prodigy of genius. Having one daywrote some verses, in which were these words “ If constant my Ellinor prove.”&c I unfortunatelyleft it on my master’s desk, where he found it ‘‘Here‘s going on,” said he: “.here’s attentionto trade ; Why it is a love elegy, or some such sturi,to steal the affection of my ward ; but Ell put a stopto it. If ever I see you speak to her, or even lookat her I’ll ’’ Choaked with anger, he stamped19is foot, and threw down three pots of honey, anIccident which by no means helped to restore himIo reason. Sometime after this the illness of a re-ation caused the absence of Mr. and Mrs Nuttingor a few (Jays. During this time, under a pretence!d’going to pay Mrs Herris, the governess, a visit,re left the house, were united toeaeh other inbondsrhicli only death could rend asunder. Not to tireour patience, I shall merely state, that in a fewi eeks our union was discovered ; we were botliudely driven from Mr Nutting's house. Mr Dar¬rell, my only friend on earth, refused to set me-.j|an(i thus were the proceeding five yeadPbf my life(fooled away without advantage either to myself orbenefactor. Ellinor had, while at Mrs Harries,formed some acquaintance with a Mr. Brooker whowas a bookseller and publisher in the city, asd withJ whom she renewed her friendship by the assistance1i! of the above lady ; he found us sufficient employ inpoetry and translations. Ellinor wrote a Novel,which succeeded well, and competence was the re-I ward of our labour. We resided in a neat dwellingat Walworth, and only visited the metropolis oc¬casionally. At the end of the first year, Ellinorbore me a daughter, who took her name.—But seeme my young friend, to-morrow—Retire now—I am not equal to the task I have imposed on my¬self; and come prepare to hear a tale of horror.”Towards evening, on the following day, a packet1 was delivered to Barnwell, he retired to his chamberand hastiely broke the seal; on a slip of paper waswritten these lines ; “ An event which has occuredthis day drives me from a retreat, in which I hadhoped to die. I shall see you no more till we meetin London. I shall discover your abode, and willnot fail to call on you. In the mean time, I havepenned for your perusal the sequal of my story.—• 20.rYou will perceive what a blank there is in my affection. If the glow of social feeling is ever more twarm my frozen breast it must be kindled by youAnhen. May you never feel the torture that racethe bosom of Mental. ‘ The narrative ran thus:: Among others who visited at our cottage wa: .a Celebrated painter of that day. Pie had a persor lrof manly beauty, and his converse was captivating. 5We delighted in the company of Mr. Linmore, andhe seemed to receive an equal satisfaction in ours.His paintings were the ornaments of durroom, andthe marksofHis favour in our company. We passeda year in the utmost bliss I ever saw on earth.—In the course of this period, Mr Nutting died, andsmitten with the injustice of possessing a fortunewhich Ellinors conduct had bestowed on him, on .his death bed made a Will, by which she regainedher right, and we became completely independant, jMy little Elinor was now three years old, and myhappiness appeared complete.— But clouds soondarkened the Sunshine of prosperity. Know thenthat the spacious moralist, Linmoreproved himselfa villian. He came toour dwelling and foundpeace,innocence, and love, he saw a fond pair as nature"ver designed for each other ; what then was thatprinciple, that could excite the vile design to marsuch bliss? Oh what a void, l felt in my breast,m hen suspicion pointed to Ellinor'sdishoncur. Startnot, my jealousy wits well founded: virtue wassubdued and vice triumphant ! One laud day pre¬tending some hours absence, I concealed myselfat home. I saw her enter the chamber and in fewmoments Linmore followed. All the powers otreason fled, my handinstinctivelygrasped a daggerthat was near me; I rushed into the room and aim¬ing a just reward at the seducer's heart, he shrunkfrom my vengence, and it fell on the poor lostifellinor. The coward fled, and I was discoveredkneeling by the side of my wife, the weapon stilliburied in her breast. I was dragged by forcefrom the body, and confined in my own house,pnderthecareof some physicians. Inafew daysmyjser.ses returned and I was tjble to give an accountof the transaction, which being corroberated bythe flight of Linrcore, the Coroner s jury returneda verdict of accidental death. Though l was notth»n deemed a madman, my reason has sustaineda shock it has never perfectly recovered.[| 'j Eilinor was then in her coffin. I threwmyselfIon it nor Would I quit it till my strange wish was[ gratified, in preserving the coffin-lid as amomento.IA further was accordingly mode. My cottage atf Walworth now became frightful: every room re-ij minded me of some happy scene, and brought myEllinor to view. My child how it chilled my bloodto look at bet-; i could not bear her presence,I placed her under the care of a respectable person,made a provison for her education, and in case ofrny death lef t her the whole of her mother-s for¬tune. I then went to, live..in America. Even heremisery pursued me. Scarcely had l settled in anydegree ofihtinracy. and felt something like human¬ity reviving in rny heart, when those, troubles ofwhich the world knows well, broke out. My friendwas an American by birth and sided with the Con¬gress. Mv opinions though they did not coincidewitVthc rulers of England, yet compelled me toresist, the entreaties of aiy friend, to take up armsa gainstniv country. 1 ’wouldhave remained nouter,fcut that could not be ; and thus, as soonas l beganto cherish love for my friend, my arm was lifted upto destroy him. It was then 1 was compelled to usethe arm? you saw at my residence. One instance of-etributive justice I met with in America which in22some degree reconciled me to the notion of a Providence; the villian Linmore, who had made thacountry his refuge, was in prison when I arrivedimplicated in a charge of murder. He was executecand dissected. I obtained his scull at a large price, :Disgusted atthe scenes that passed before me, I cmbraced the first opportunity of returning to England& bought the estate of the Abbey near your uncle’s.Its distance from any other dwelling, the romanticscenery around it, and the gloomy walks along theAbbey ruins, accorded with my soul’s distress.—The old woman I retained as a servant, had livedsome time in the house before I bought it. I de¬posited the coffin lid and the scull, in my study : .and from that moment the poor woman wouldnever enter the room.“ I flew for amusement to chemistry, electricity,and anatomy, but grew tired of each. I in generalkept close at home all day, and walked among theruins when others slept. Among a few’ other me¬morandums of former bliss, I had reserved my dearEflinor’s harp—it had been her delight. Annexedto these memoirs you will find some pieces of poetrywnich I composed at midnight in the Abbey : theyrelate to my dear Ellinor. Let this memorandumsometimes claim a place in your thoughts. (It wasa miniature of Mental done in his youth; and howunlike his present appearance ! George placed it 'in his bosom, and resumed Mental’s narrative.)—Newspapers, and various publications, shewed methe bustling scenes of life, on which I gazed an un¬concerned1 spectator. Yet there was still one object 1for whom my heart felt an interest: my daughteroften started to my memory, and pained me for herfate in such a world of treachery and woe. 1 heardoften from her governess, but could never bring Jmyself to her. The accounts I received were satis- j23ctory, till her eighteenth year, when a lettertme with tidings, that without any knownmse, she had eloped. \ severe illness thatireatened my dissolution, followed this intel-j ^ence; every effort to discover her was un¬failing. Thus misery weighs down my do¬ming years; and I live in torturing doubt; to my child, my Ellinor. Last night I wasdiscovered by some peasants at my favouritec'cupation in the Abbey ruins. I will not betheme for babbling tongues ; I have takeny old domestic with me, and I quit this place,erhaps, for ever.   Will you, then, pitymiserable old man, and commiserate his fatealk of him as little as possible; but whenis name is mentioned, do that justice to hislemory, which these memoirs enable you.—by breast is pure, tny slumbers are sweet !tay they ever be so.—Farewell.” Barnwell'sncle, mother, and the tender-hearted Eliza, torhom he communicated the melancholy tale, no¬ted in commiserating the sufferings of a man,diuse life, almost from his infancy, had beennarked with disappointment and sorrow.In a few days George quitted his uncle'sicspitable roof, which still remained the asylum>f his mother and Eliza. Sir Janies^ had giventis nephew three thousand pounds, and a fur-her seven thousand was to he given athe expiration of the time for which he was ar-icied, on condition of his being admitted intot share of tlie concern. Mr Freeman, thedder partner of the firm, resided wholly inhe conntry with his lovely daughter, the ami-tble Maria ; he was a widower, and not being24biessed with this child, till a late period of his^age she was the darling of his soul. He com¬mitted his affairs to the management of his twopartners, Mr. Emery and Mr. Drudge.For the first time George ente'ed the metro-Jpolis. From the account he had received fronuiMental, of the meanness and avarice of traders,h« was not a little surprised at the elegant ap¬pearance of Mr. Emry s residence. His astonish¬ment increased, when upon his admission into thehall, he was surrounded by four or five stout ;'fellows in biue and silver liveries. The youtuwas confused, and felt some difficulty in persuad-1ing these gentlemen of the ceremonies to procure 'him an audience of Mr. Emery.Some months passed away unmarked by anyevent of consequence. Mental had not visitedhim, though George const- ntly expected him.But it was his misfortune to fall in w ith a beauti¬ful young wonfau, who went under the name ofMillwood, but turned cut to be Eliinor, thedaughter of Mental, who pretended to be deeplyin love with him. She got him advised to murderhis uncle, and she, by the assistance of an Italiancalled Zelotti with whom she formerly cohabited,poisoned her father, that they might obtain pes-ression of their riches For which they werea!> apprehended, George was tried, condemned,and executed. Millwood went distracted inptison, broke a blood vessel in her rage, anddied ; and ZcJotb poisoned himself.FINIS.