THEr'hSINNER’S SOBS;OR, THESinners Way to Sions Joy.Plainly demonstratingTHE ABSOLUTE NECESSITY OFTRUE GODLY SORROW,FOR THE SINNER'S SAFETY.BY MATHE.W KILLIARY, M. D.EDINBURGH:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.Price Oqf Penny*THESINNER’S SOBS;OR, THESINNER’S WAY TO SIN’S JOY.Acts. ii. 17.INora when they heard this, they were prick¬ed in their hearts, and said to the otherApostles, men and hrcJiren what shallwe do to be saved ?In tbife chapter you have an accountof the effects of the apostle St Peter’sfamous sermon ; having toM the Jews inthe verses before the text, that they werethe men that crucified the Xord of life,•an., hfied the blood of the Son of God !tha < hey had consented to it and imbru-t their hands in it : This stung theirconsciences, and pricked their hearts:the arrows of the Hord, which the Apos-ities had shot secretly into their souls3 ) acame home to their hearts ami couscieu*ces, that they could bear no longer; butcame to Peter and the rest and said, \Vhatshall we do to be saved?The doctrine which I would brieflyspeak o^T’rom these words, is this.Doctrine and unfeigned sorrow andcontrition of heart convinced of God’spleasure for sin, is absolutely necessaryto salvation.This is that we call the beginning ofthe work of grace, even in the bruisingof a sinner’s heart, under the sense of anysin committed.To prove this to be absolutely necess¬ary to salvation, not only scripture, butreason will tell us: For Scripture, seethe l Cor. vii 10. Godly sorrow causethrepentance until salvation. And as theprophet David, in the bitterness of hisspirit, said. Thou knowest mine eyeswaking, and my sin is ever before me*If the Lord loves a sinner, and means todo him good, he will not let the sinneralone in his own sinful courses, but willfree him from his den, bruise, and beathim as in a morter. What caused David’ssorrow but his sin ? He needed no re¬storing, had lie not been degraded.Wdll then, is this a work of grace? Is.( 4. )this contrition for sorrow and sin, a be¬ginning ot repentance? then it mustneeds be of great necessity to.salvation ;fpr without repentance there is no salva¬tion-Now, that something may be hintedto put sinners in a way to this unfeignedsorrow, let me beg of you, in the bowelsof love, * earnestly desiring your soulswelfare to meditate seriously on thesethree things, which will (if set home bythe spirit of God) help you to the afterwork, even hearty sorrow and true con¬trition.I. Look over your life past, and labourto see the mercy, goodness, and patienceof God, that hath been abused and des¬pised by that unkind dealing of yours.Oh souls! remember the days of old, andreckon up God’s gracious dealings withyou. Were you ever in want, who sup¬plied you ? Were you ever in weakness,who strengthened you ? In sickness, who.cured you t In miseries, who succouredyou? In poverty, who relieved you? Was,it7101 the Lord 2 And how can you for¬get. him, who forgot not you in your lowestate ? Will you reward the Lord thus ?What shall I say of you ? Hear, O hea¬vens! and hearken O earth! The oxknoweth his owner, and the ass his mas.ter's crib j and will not you acknowledgeGod’s kindness and goodness to you?Look into your houses, go to your iam«£and beds, and say, who gives these andcontinues them to us? doth not the Lord ?and yet you sin against this God: Cer¬tainly my friends serious meditation onthis must break the heart, and cause sor¬row for sin. But,1L If the mercy, goodness, and longpatience of God will not move nor meltyou: Consider it (God is just too) ifmercy cannot prevail, you shall have jus*tice enough. Take heed, Q hard heart¬ed and undaunted sinners, the just lawthat hath been contemned, and the right¬eous statutes that hath been broken, andthat God that hath been provoked byyou and will be revenged of you. Whereis Nimrod and Nebuchadnezzer Pharoah,and Herod, and all these proud personsthat set their mouths against God andtheir hearts against heaven, what is nowbecome of them ? they are now in thebottomless pit of hell.As the apostle saith, Our God is a con¬suming fire, Heb. xiii. 29. And if my firebe kendled, it shall burn to the bottomof hell. O therefore meditate on the'\ / .( 6 )justice of God provoked! lest thou artcalled to the bar too soon, to answer forihy sfnsj aifd^sxtaiar^ar serious medita¬tion here nn&st need provoke an uu/^lgn*ed Contrition. ' ■ 'III. Meditate on the cost and punish-inent of sin : Consider C> stubborn sin¬ner : what will sin cost you? namely,those endless torments that camibt beconceived ; hath not the God- of hekvenarid earth with all his attributes* palledBefore Vdii ; viz. his ihetcy his' goodness'ahd patienec-, his- long suffering $ haiiv,not alf tiii^se co»ite to your hearts andwhispered in your ears, and said, “Bounty*“ hath kept you, patience hath bdrn willy“yon; IdAg-sudertftg-Hath endured you,“ mercy hufh r'd't-ived you, the goorinesy-‘^'of ;Gbd- hatin been gfacrous io ’foti”'All these will'bid you all adieu, abd thenyou will be senfedeed to the bottom test?pitv whlu^- ydar •eornpaniofts are dfevils;honor tire langiittge, brimstone and firethe torture ; and*'eternal death the soulseternal lire. Certainly my friends, seri¬ous meditations on this most break theheart; and cause sorrow for simWhat a terrible day shall this be whetithou -halt leaVe this mansion and enterinto an unknown region ? WIno can de-(?)fend tuee from those helish monsters?God is incensed hell prepared, justicethreatened, only mercy must prevent* orthe soul is damned, Oh! miseraplethe souls committed sin. But to giv$you some, reasoiis why there mpst be thispiercing and wounding of souls for sin.I. Reason. Because sin is the gre^t--est eyil of the soul, and the greatest bur¬den. also ; that is most grievous which i§most heavy. Now as there.is no evil, spproperly and directly evil to the soul, astbp evil of sin is ; so there is nothing thatcan properly do good to the soul, butGod. Now while a sinner cannot spehis sin, he cannot sorrow for his sip.. Nowit is a godly sorrow that causeth repe^ftance unto life, as you may see in 3 Cor.vii. 10. And assuredly the soul th^t seesnot the evil of sin, shall fall by the evilof punishment.II. Reason, “Why unfeigned sorrow“ and contrition of heart, for sin is ne-“ cessary to salvation.” Because mysound sorrow the soul is truly preparedand titted for the Lord Jesus Christ; asyou may see in the Prophet Jer. xi. S.Plow up the fallen ground ot your hearts,and sow not among thorns: What is itelse, but to have the hearts pierced withthe terrors of the Lord, by a eoirtid sa*ving sorrow for sin. “ Plow up the cor¬ruptions, which are the thorns andu thistles in your hearts as the prophetDavid saitlt, Psalm li. 27. ’Tis a brokenand a contrite Heart, O God, thou wiltnot despise. The heart must be brokenall to pieces, beaten to powder, and mustbe content to be weaned from all sin,which is the way to be fitted for JesusChrist.HI. Reason, The soul can not part withhis sins and lusts, which is his God ; un¬til he find himself wearied with them,and as gall and wormwood to him ; andhow this weariedness and burden of sin,'must needs cause in the soul a sound sor¬row for sin ; before the soul sees the ven¬omous and ugly nature of it, he is notwilling to part with it: Go to pull awaythe adulterer’s whore, and the drunkard’spots, you had as good go to kill them;the reason is, because they find sweet¬ness in those base courses, and they arcall their delight. But now when the Lordcomes to lay a heavy weight on this man’sshoulders, than those wicked sins, whichwere so sweet before* he finds them nowas bitter as gall and wormwood, and nowhe lies dowm in sorrow, and cries out!?( 9 )wO is sin such a deadly killing evil, asit will certainly destroy body and soul“in hell! and is there no entering into“heaven with the guilt of these upon“my soul! Good Lord, do what thou“wilt with me, only take my soul and“ save me, and take away my lusts and“ corruption from me.”Thus have you briefly the reason ofthe print that this is the way of God’sworking; that sorrow and contrition ofheart for sin is the way of conversationfrom sin, and a turning to God. I nowproceed to the application.The first shall be for instruction.The second for reproof and complaint.The third for exhortation.Use 1. It is so that this sorrow’, underthe burden and weight of sin, will piercea man's soul to the quick, and grind himas it were to powder, being run throughby the arrow’s of the almighty, and thatit is of so great necessity to be humbledand sound)} sorrowful for sin ? Thetrletthis teach brethren now to carry them¬selves one towards another and to suchas God hath dealt thus with having theirsouls pierced ? O! do ycm pity them.'They lie down'in sorrow’, eat the breadof adversity, and drink the water of at’*( ™ )tiiction, have compassion on them !what the Lord says by Moses, Duet. xx«..1. Thou slialt not see thy brother’s ox orhis sheep go astray, and hide thyself fromthem, thou shall in any case bring themagain unto thy brother.And henceforth the Lord commandedmercy to be shewn to the unreasonablecreature that is wearied, with the weighthe carries. Hath the Lord care of oxen ?And O! wilt thou not help to ease theherd of thy brother, that is thus triedwith the wrath of the almighty ? Do yousee and cannot you mourn for them, prayfor them, and sneak in the behalf of dis¬tressed souls. See what Job saith Chap,xix. 11, 2l2, 23. O (said he) that mysorrows were all weighed they wouldprove, heavier than the sands. As if hehad said, “ O my friends have pity uponme ! 'What have you no regard of a manin miaery : Have you no pity,, though hecry in, bitterness of his soul, help, help,for the Lord’s, sake ? Oh pray for and pi¬ty those woupds arm vexatious of spirit,which no man feels but he that is thuswounded : The poor man.ires crying un¬der the burden of sin, sig hing and mourn-.iwg and saying, O when v. id it once be-,that God will revive hi* drooping soul !: e n >Certainly it would make one’s heart; tobleed to hear the sounding away of sncha man, that the sword of the Almightyhath pierced his heart, and he lies breath¬ing, out his sorrow, as though he was go¬ing down to hell. It is a sign that soulis marked for destruction of himself whoharboureth such adesperatedesignagainstpoor wounded souls. Oh could you seeJob all smitten with broils, be lying mis¬erably, forlorn in the eye of men ; andwould you not lend him a hand nor amouth to help him ? Can you endure tosee them pricked to the heart ? roaringand staring under the heavy yoke andburden of their sins, crying out, “ Whatshall we do to be saved : O what shall wedo to escape hell and damnation, andthose nnsupportahle and unquenchableflames of the wrath of God ?” Canst thoustand still and say or do nothing, or ra¬ther canst thou upbraid them ? O soul !assuredly the Lord will remember theein the day of thy death ; and as thou hastshewed no mercy, so shall thou receiveno mercy in that day ; such willing andviolent opposers of God’s grace, the Lordwill bring them one day on a bed of lan-guishiugs and make them roar by forceunder the violence of his wrath. V Q( 12 )friends ! be troubled at others troubles,and mourn in secret for all them thatmourn under the terrible burden of theirsin/’Use 2. And here let me make a lamen¬tation, in the nature of reproof, againstthe secure souls in this generation where-we live! the lord be merciful unto aworld of men, that live within the bosomof the church. Oh that we had a foun¬tain of tears to bewail for thee, in thisrespect, as Diogenes went about Athenswith a lanthorn and candles at noon-dayto seek for honest men : So should a min¬ister go from country to country, andfrom shire to shire. O how few wouldhe find mourning for their sins! Sin is farfrom being a burthen or poison to them,that it is their sport and pastime, justEsau like. What did he when he did eatand drink ? he rose up to play, Gen. xxv.How few are they like Ephraim, whosmite upon their thigh and cry'out, Whathave 1 done ? Men upon their aie benchescan swear, drink, rail against God, anddefy the holy one of Israel. O how fewrail against their own sins, and wish thedeath and destruction ol them l How fewcry out, men and brethren, what shall wedo to be saved ? But on the contrary, Q( 13 )thatit were but soundl}' lamented for andreproved, many do despight to the Spiritof grace, and glory in these things forwhich they have cause to be ashamed, Saysthe vile swearer, “I have swore such aman out of his house.’* Saith the drun¬kard, “ I have drunk such a man underthe table dead.O sinner! pray read tha* place of theapostle, and there you may see your doomI speak, to impudent and incorrigible sin¬ners, 2 Thes. 11. 12, That all they wiltbe damned, which believe not the truth,but have pleasure in unrighteousness, me-thmks that these words should shake aman’s heart to think on them, and theLord in mercy look upon you, and makesin as loathsome and bittter to you, as e-ver it hath been sweet and pleasant. Osport not yourselves with sin ! considerDives, for a drunken feast here, had adry feast in hell, and could not get onedrop of water to cool his tongue, so willit be with you, you must either repent.and mourn for sin, or else burn forever.What wilt thou do O man ! when Godshall come to tear thee in pieces, andthere be none to help ? when God shallgrant the Devil leave to take thee intohis Accursed mansions, and there |shultthou He, weeping and gnashing of thyteeth, for ever! then thou there shaft Heblaspheming, with Gud’s wrath like a pileof fire upon thy soul, burning with floodsand sqas of tears, which thou mayegt shedbut shalt never quench it. Which waysoever thou Iqokest, thou shalt see mat¬ter and cause of everlasting grief. Lookup to heaven, and there thou shalt see,that Godis good for ever. l ook aboutthee, and thou shalt see devils quakingand cursing God, and thousands, naymillions of sinlul damned.creatures, cry¬ing and roaring out with doleful shrieks,“ O the day that ever I was born !” lookwithin ihee, there is a guilty consciencecontinually gnawing thee : Look on thetime past, O those golden days of grace,and sweet seasons of mercy are gone lLook to the time to come, and thereshalt thou behold devils, troops, andswarms of sorrows and woes, ana ragingwaves, ami, billows of wrath come roar-ing upon thee. Idy from,it, Ofools, be¬wail yourselves m the sight of the Lord,be pricked to the heart; go tell God youcannot bear your sins, they are tco hea;vy fur ou, much more the punishment:conquuiq to him who is able to ease you :O vox not the righteous soul of the god-- — ( 15 )ly from day. to day, .ueither grieve theholy spirit of God, but be couvcrted, thatye may live: Cry mightly to the Lord,per&dventure he may hear, and forget,and forgive all your provocations j weepthat you have lame-nted no more ; andgrieve-that you have no more grieved forsin.Use 3. Is of exhortation, to exhort andbeseech poor unconverted sinners thatare under ihe command of the prince ofthe power of the air who are strangersto God, end alines the coverant ofpromise, who have'' i ved all this whilewithout God in the world to come hither,and take the right way to bring yourhearts to a right pitch of sorrow. Letme tell you it will never repent you atthe last day, that you have had youiheart humbled, it wdl never repent youthat you have wept, when our blessedSaviour Jesus Christ comes to wipe awayall tears trorn your eyes. Hear what ourblessed saviour saith, Mat. v. 4. Blessedare all they that mourn, for they shall becomforted,. Is it not better to endure alittle torment here for a small time, thanto be tormented irj hell tire for, ever ? Otherefore, if you desire ever to see thelace of God with comfort, and to have/( 1G )Christ speak for you, break your heartswith sorrow for sin soundly. For theLord’s sake no not cozon yourselves: Itis not only the tears of the eye, but theblood of your heart your sins must cost,and till you come to this, never thinkyour sorrow is good. This sorrow con¬sists, not in a bare rending of garments^or change of apparrel, or denying them¬selves those outward ornaments, as somepeople of late days do foolishly conceive,who had been filled with desperate hypo¬crisy, having left all here, and gone nofarther; but you must break oft. yourhearts, wound yourselves here, and bedriven ihto amazement for sin, or else itwill live with you here and in hell too:O therefore, when God begins to work,follow the blow, and with the prophetDavid, Psal. xxiii 2. Our eyes wait u-pen the Lord our God, until that hdhavemercy upon us. Get your conscienceswounded, and resolve not to hear thecounsel of carnal friends. Go thoti andlie at'God’s footstool ami confess thy sinsbefore him, for it is he that confessSthand forsaketh all shall find mercy, andwhere there is this true and hearty con¬fession, there must needs be a godly sor¬row Ibr sin.5/( 17 )lo provoke you to it, let me leave youtwo or three motives.1. Consider it is not a vain thing thatyou are exhorted to, hut that upon whichthe life of your souls depends for with¬out a thorough sense, and pricking at theheart for sin, there is salvation from sin •:He that would be Christ’s disciple, mustleave all he hath, father and mother, wifeand children, all that’s near and dear tohim, and take up the cross and followChrist. He that would be a true con¬vert, must both confess and grieve forsin, as the prophet Ezekiel saith, Theyshall remember their ways that were notgood, and shall be ashamed, O then, bepefsueded, poor careless and unregener¬ate sinners, to mind the check of yourconscience within you, and the clear per¬spicuous light of the gospel without you,and come among the number of mour¬ners to mourn for sin : You may weepyour eyes out hereafter to no purpose.Better w eep here a while than for everin hell, for our Lord Jesus hath said.Blessed are, the mourners for they shallbe comforted; O souls! these are notrivnl things: press you to; the Lordmake you serious in youi sorrow lor.-sin, that it may be such godly sorrow as( 18 )worketh life and peace.2. Consider deep and hearty sorrowfor, and ture confession of sin, is a veryhonourable thing in the eyes of God andgood men. O souls! it will tend to youreverlasting honour and renown. In thegreat day, when God shall acquit you .be¬fore all the world, both angels, men, anddevils, and say, “ Here, behold the ingen.ious confessor, and true godly mourner!who was not ashamed to say, in sin 1 wp-sconceived, anil in iniquitybrougfftforth.MThis weeping soul have comforted withmy spirits and he stands justified by mySon’s merits : TJl honour him with a man¬tle that is better than that of all thedaughters. Gome then O soul! see a-mong .the mourners in Zion, as every onedesires to her comforted, and as every onewould.be so highly honored.8b Consider then that godly sorrow andconfession of sin is a safe thing, it is thebest and satest way to.hearen and glory !is it safe to contend with God? Canbriars and thorns contend with God inbattle? Is it safe to fall into the handsof the living God, with the gilt of allyour sins upon you ? No, therefore con¬sider what I have said, and the way Ihave fixed upon, viz. Godly sorrow and(. 19 )true Heart breaking for sin, and the Lordgive you understanding in all thiags.Amen.Now to God the Father, God the Son.and God the Holy Ghost, three per¬sons and one God, be given (as ismost due) all. honour, glory andjjfaise, now and for ever.i9o:{4 JfliaAMEDITATIONONT THEFOUR LAST THINGS.viz.Death, Judgement, Heaven,and Hell.A Meditation on Death.*•4 *Death the old serpent’s sou,Thou hadst a sting once like thy fire,That carrion hell, and ever burnting fire:But those black days are o’er ;Thy foolish pride buried thy stingIn the profound and widev Wound of our Saviour’s side.And now thouart become atame and harm-A thing we’darenot fear [less thing.Since we hear.r ?i )That our triumphant Ciod to punish theeFor the affront thou didst him on the tree,Hath snatch'd tiie keys of hell out of thyHand and made thee stand,Aporteratth’gateoflifcthymortalenemy.On the Day of Judgement.Great judge of all who we vile wretchesOur guilty bones do ake, [quake.Our marrow freezes when we thinkOf the consuming fireOf thine ire ^And horrid phials thou shalt makeThe wicked drink, )Thou wine-press of thy wrath shall tread,With feet of lead.Sinful rebellious clay! what unknown placeShall hide it from thy face.When earth shall vanish from thy sight?The h °avensthat never err'd.But observed [flight.Thy laws, shall from thy presence take theirAnd kill’d with glory their bright eyes starkStart from their head: [deadLord how shall we.Thy enemies, endure to seeSo bright, so killing majesty?Mercy, dear Saviour: Thyjudgement-seat. C '■*« )We eare not. Lord, intreat;We’re con dem n’d already thereMfcrcy, vouchsafe our lookCf life, Lord, we can read thy saving Je¬sus here,And in his name our own salvation see,Lord set us frefe :The book of sinIs cross’d within,* Our debts are paid thee.Of Heaven.ObeautiesGod! uncircumscrib’d treasureOf an eternal pleasure!Thy throne is seated far,Above the highest star ;Where thou ■prepar’d a glorious placeWithin the biigntness of thy face.For every spiritTo inherit.That builds his hopes on thy merit.And loves thee with an holy charity, .What ravish,d heart seraphic tongue orClear as the morriing’s rise, [eyes,Can speak or thiffk or see.That bright eternity.Wherethegreat king’s transparent throneIs of an entire jasper stone;There the eyeO’ the chrysolite.Anti a skyk)f diamonds; ruble??, dirysoprase ;And above all thy holy face,Makes an eternal ciarity,When thou thy Jewelsup dostbind that dayRemember us we pray ;Fhat where the bervillies,And the crystal ’bove the skiesThere thou may’st appoint us place.Within the brightness of thy face ;And our soulIn the scrolOf life and blissness enrol,"Hiatt we may praise thee to eternity.Hallelujah.Of HellHorrid darkness, sad and fore,And an eternal night;Cries and shrieks, and thousands more,In the want of glorious light:Every corner hath a snakeIn the accurced lake.Seas of tire, beds of snow.Are the best delights below;A viper from the tire is his hireThat knows not moments from eternity.( 24 )Glorious God of day and nigh},Spring of eternal light;Hallelujahs, hymns, and psalms,And coronets of psalmsFill thy people evermore.O mighty God,Let not thy bruising rodCrush thy loins with an eternal pressure >O let thy mercy be the measure;O let thy mercy be thy measure;For if thou keepest wrath in store,We shall all die.And noneshallbelefttoglorifyThy name, and tellHow thou hast sav’d our souls from hell.mercy.FINIS.^ -ij*.j . i.♦. i