THE|Diflractcd Sailor!The Maid’s Lament,For hw Dron’d Lover.The Young Man’s Wifii/The Perplex’d Virgin*-IM.5.IRK, by T. JQ^STO^THEDISTRACTED SAILOR.O how plrafant are voung levers,V’ben their cou'tfliip liril begin 1And their faces oft diic^verthe great pieaUtres they are in-TV hen they feem to like each other*,hard in hand thefe lovers move;What fvert klifts thtv tio fmother,svhsn they prattle tales «f lore 1Jufl fo Oillv. the Sailor, courtedAlolly. and (lie v»as mot; kind;Jfor they oft had kifs’d and fported,and both perfuaded ve . ia Btied:She confented for to have miE,he made vows to her againJle would wed if flit’d not leave hira,when he did return fr«m Spain.'Then a piece of gold was broken,and each other toe k a pai r;And by her thel'e word* weie i’pekon,Billy tlmu hall won m\ heart!May the h>. avena blti, you thither,and your iafe return again,Molh'- ycur’« aloiie for ever,when you do return *rvm opain.( 3 )Jifa in arsa they kifi’d eachand repeated vow* did make,Ever to love one-anather ;bat faid Bdl mv heart doth nch,Left in abi'ence you Ihould leave me,then my heart would burl! in twain.Curfe on Moll, if 1 deceive thee,but ftay till thou daft come from Spain^Bill a golden locket gave her,and begg'd of her to be true :Moll reply’d. at I‘m a finner,[ will ne'er be Falfe to you.Then they parted wi ll eyes weeping,and he fail’d away for Spain.For two years he had been miffing,but is now return’d again.Several letters he had fent her,from Portuga! and the Spanilh (hare,With tokens hoping would content her,until to England he came o’er iHut no anfwer he received,till with Admiral Leake he came,Then his h*ar: was forely grieved,O that 1 had ftuid in Spain 1For he found bis Mollv marrv’d,then lee curft faife lovers all,Since his Molly now was carry'd,by her hylbund, to Black wall.( 4 )lie criea out now in vtjsation, .Now fone new found laud IfU Cad,There wild beaSo have rr.ore COJij’afiiji^than deluding women-kind.NBat, ala*! he’* fore tormented,and cr’nt* oat, I nm undone !J'or my foul i* diiconrentcd,and I fiiall diltr afled run !^Molly’s falt'e and has deceiv’d me,O ye furie* ! wby do you (lay ?Of my tormens* foon relieve me !take my wretched life away2Tow he rend* his cloath* afunder,and is into diitraclion run:T'o Bedlam now for fafety,thi* ddlrnftcd Sailor’s ger.'e ;There in links of ii-on chained,and in ft raw, alone doth He,Againit Molly he exclaimeth,for her wicked j *rjury,jCJay and night hi* chain* Ije rattle*,a* if Bedlam he would pul down!Come brare Sailors, think of battle,aul of ftorming Spanifh Town !Holloa! you fir. Bedlam’* porter,bring forth Molly here again,I will ram her iu a mortar,,and wUlHicot her into Spain.v( 5 ) ATHE YOUXG M VlD’s L.U1KN ProR Han aRaws'» lotss.vTwas when tlw fea* were rocxiagwith hollow bia't* oF wind,*A damlel lay deploring,all on a rock reclin’d ;Wide o’er the roarir-.g billowsthe call a withful look,Her head w:u crown’d whh ’n.illeWS,that trembled o’er the brook.'Twelve month* were gone and over,and eine long tediou* day* ;"Why didrt thou, vent’rou* lover,why didil thou truft the feas lGeafe, ceale then, cruel ocean,and Is: mv lover red ;Ah! what’s thy troubled motionto that within my bread ?The merchant, robVd of treasure,vis'•s tempells in delpair;llut what’s the lofs of trenfttre,to Icling of my Uera' ?Shou’d you I'ome coad he laid on,where gold and diamonds grow,You’d hud,a richer maiden,but i'.cno that loves you to.£frv*r osn thfT fay that Natureha* n.ith'iig made iu vain?Whv th -n ben-ath the a'erd es hideoa> rucks remain?No eye thefe r-ck* due ver,that iurk benek.h the deept,To wreck the 'und Vine; I. ver.and Leave the maid to weep.AH melanclicdy lying,thus wait’d die for her dear;Repay d each b ad with fighing,each billow with a tear;When o’er the white r-aves doopirtgjhis fli'at’mg corps Hie fpy’d;Then, like a lily Creeping,flic bow’d her head, and dy’d.THE YOUNG JIAN’s WISfLFree from the bufllc of care and £rife,Ot this Ihort variagated life,O let me fper.d my daysIn ru’-al f-eetnefs with a friend.To whom my mi ad 1 may unbend,Isi^r csni'ure heed, nor praife.( 7 )Riche* bring cares. I afic not 'cveaRa,Let rr+'. enjoy but peace and health,t envy not the great.’Tis tleeCe alone can mahe me bieft,The riches take of eait and rreft,I claim not thefc, or Rate.Tho’ not extravagant, or near,B.it thro’ the weli-fpent chequer'd JCUI’d liave enough to live ;To drink a bottle tvith a friend,it fit him in diftrefs, ne’er lend,•But rather freely give.I too would tv Hit to fweeten life,A gentle, kind, geod-nsrur’d wife,Young, feuiiblo and fair ;One who could1 love but me nlstte.Prefer my cot bvfnre a throne,And foot he my every eare.Thus happy with my wife and Jriettt),My life I chearfully would fpend,vV'ith no vam thoughts opprtR:If Hcavan has blifs for me in ilore,O grant me this. I alk uc more,And I *tn truly bleit.THE PERPLEXED VlftCtN.y?vtraG C*3;n to oar cottsgc ctiine,and von’d bow inwch he lef’d ;T owr I felt e fecret flame,yet not his rove* appror’d;A thouiand terder talcs be told,I thought feesned untnae,?.ladc me believe my heart xrst cold,What could a Virgin do ?The artlefs maid is foon imprsfs'dwith tiK-aghts before unknown :When Cupid wounds the female brecl%lie s iarc to keep his throne,in nain «ur fortitude we try.Fortune lay's it muft be i*>;’Ti* b' Id through pity toWhat ean a Virgin do?J I N I S.FoKlirft—‘T. ‘JzbmUm, Frini/r,