LATIN PRAYERSNOT FIT FOR IRISHMEN.TO WHICH ARE ADDEDMARGARETandTHE MS*ESTER;ANDSODA WATER.PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.gflaYAJTi XITAvIM3HIH8IIII HOI TH TOfcla;, ia/v 'at.' ii 'i:i7/ otT'dtt A OH AMavj afaKTOiSTE ME K15XKiS.A' .aaTAw Aaoa— • > »V»> -s.—.,8«sjjH?.xooa anT noi o.iTKfasLATIN PRAYERSNOT FIT FOR IRISHMEN.filr-ViH iffiti ?f!; io 1 > ■ nlEvere other Christian (Church hasfound fault with the Church of Romefor reading public prayers in a languagenot understood by their congregations;and while the prayers of the RomanCatholic service are read, either inwhole oi in part, in the Latin language,all other prayers are delivered or readin the common language of eachcountry. In England and Ireland, inRussia, Denmark, Sweden, Norway,Holland, Germany, Switzerland, andFrance, as well as in Syria and Armenia,every person that does not belong totheChurch of Romeenjoys the privilegeof prayinp publicly in hisown language.And, certainly, no good reason can begivert, why Latin prayers should be4read to an Irish or English congrega¬tion. It is surely an extraordinarything, when a congregation assemblesto join in t^e .public worship of Al¬mighty God,- to have a Priest readingto them such prayers as not one ofthem can fcmderstand. And we neednot be surprised to find St. Paul for¬bidding prayers in aaowiknown tongue.In the 14th chapter of the first Epistleto the Corinthians, he tells them, thatsonqe of them, who possessed the mira¬culous power of speaking in a greatmapy different languages, used to dosp, when there was no one present whowas able to undei stand them ; and thatthe, gift of prophesying, or publicpreaching, was a more desirable andedifying one. The several reasons hegiyes to prove all he said, are so manyunanswerable arguments against thepse of Latin prayers in this country.Firsts, he says, that public worshipshould be so odered as to edify thechurch. “ He that speaketh in,an mm-foiu'ji'n tongue, edifietli himself; but hethat prophesieth, edifieth the church.I would that ye all speak with tongues;hut rather that ye prophesied j forgreater is he that prophsieth thanhe that speaketh with tongues, excepthe interpret, that the church may re¬ceive edifying.*’ Ver. 4, 5.—“Seekthat ye may excel to the edifying ofthe church*’. Ver. 12.—Secondly, hetells us what is plain enough, “that anything spoken in unknown languagedoes not edify the church.'*'’ See 4thverse.—“If I know not the meaning ofthe voice, I shall be unto him thatspeaketh a barbarian, apd hethatspeak-eth shall £<? a barbarian untome. Evenso ye, forasmuch as ye are zealbus ofspiiitual gifts, seek that ye may excelto the edifying of the church.”—Ver.11 and 12. Thirdly,' he commands that“ if any man speak in an unhno’wntongue, let it behy two, or at the mostby throe, and that by course, and letone interpret. But if there be no in¬terpreter, let him keep silence in theelvurch ; and let him speak to himselfand to God.”—*ver. 27, 28,Again St-sFaul tells us, that publicprayers ought to be offered up by thePriest or Minister, so that at the end6the people may say Amen, So be it, sig¬nifying their assent to what has beensaid ; and that no man can say Amento what hedoes not understand- “ Whenthou shalt bless with the Spirit, howshall he that occupieth the room of theunlearned say Amen at thy giving1 ofthanks, seeing he uiulerstandeth notwhat thou sayest.”—ver. 16. Prayersin an unknown tongue are quite for¬bidden by St. Paul in this chapter;Latin is an unknown tongue to an Irishcongregation ; prayers in Latin cannotedify them, because they cannot under¬stand them ; therefore if we believe theplain meaning of St. Paul’s words, Latinpagers- are not jit for Irishmen.The early Christian Church under¬stood the Apostle’s words as we do, andconsidered, that they forbid prayers inan unknown tongue. Justin Martyr’ssecond Apology for the Christians, andSL. Jerome’s Preface to his Commenton the Epistle to the Galatians, shewsus, that in their days the' whole con¬gregation answered Amen at the endof each prayer: and the writings ofotberjancrent fathers clearly prove, that7in each country public prayers were inthe common tongue. The Council ofLater m made an order in the year 1215,that as there were in many places mix¬ed people of divers languages and cus¬toms, the Bishops should take care toprovide fit men to perform divine ser¬vice among them, according to thisdifference of rites and languages.Nicholas de Lyra, and Thomas Aquinas,both celebrated, and of hi«-h authorityin the Church of Rome, have writtenagainst prayer in an unknown tongue ;and Cardinal Cajetan has confessedthat “prayer ought to be in a knowntongue.” Here are Christian Fathers,Catholic Doctors, Councils, and Car¬dinals, all declaring, that public prayersshould be understood by the congre¬gation ; and therefore that Latin pray¬ers are not fit for Irishmen.The custom of praying in Latin wasconfirmed by the Council of Trent,which sat after the Reformation.Fearing that they might seem to opposethe infallibility of their church, if theymade any alterations, or condemnedany thing which had formely been8practised j they confirmed almost everything to which the Protestants had ob¬jected, and among other things, they-pronoujaeed a curse upon all those who-should maintain or teach, that prayerought not to be tirade in an unknown■Iwwtgseiviijlii defending this unscrip-4;ural custom, the Priests say, that M.Paul does not speak of ordinary andcommon public prayers, but of extra¬midinary spiritual songs, uttered by thosewho had miraculous gifts: we reply,that the Apostle mentions prayer, andwith blessing, or giving of thanks, andit was as necessary for the people toW»derstand the daily service, as theextfaordinary effusions of inspiredspeakers. Jt is further said by them,that though St. Paul prefers prayer ina known tongue, he does not condemnthe use of it in one that is unknown $but this is not true, for lie does con-.demn the Us® of an unknown tongue,when he orders the speaker to be silentwhen there is no interpreter; and if itwas true, why does not the Church ofadopt the mode of worshipwhfeh St. Paul thought the best? The9notes on the 14th chapter of the Cor¬inthians,.in the Roman Catholic Tes¬tament, say* tiiat Latin is not a strangeor unknown tongue, but. perhaps thebest known in the world. This maybe true, but cetainly the lower classesof the Irish do not understand it j tothem it is a strange tongue, and there¬fore ought not to he used. The Priestsmaintain that there is- some peculiarcharm in the Latin language, whichmakes a Latin prayer more efficaciousthan an English one; and many of ourpoor people believe it is the onlylanguage which the devil does not un¬derstand. It is in vain to tell us, thatthe Latin prayers are all translated, andthat those who have read theii prayer-book know what prayer the Pries! isreading. In the first place, none ofthem were ever translated until theReformation ; and in some countriesthey are not translated at all. And,in the next place, these translations arenot of any use to those who cannotread, and a great proportion of theircongregations are of tins description.,• Tjhe Chufch of Rome has reasons10for continuino- this antiscriptural andabsurd practice, which pei haps she darenot confess. Reading prayers in I.atinwas a great convenience to thoseforeigners who were sent by the Pope,before the Reformation, into Englandand other countries, to get bishopricsand parishes, not kno-wing the languageof the country into which they came,they could never have read prayers, orsaid Mass, if the custom of reading inLatin had not been kept up, and there¬fore, it was the interest of the Pope tomaimain and continue it.In the next place, reading Latinprayers makes the ignorant peoplethink more highly of their Priests, andleads them to continue in that state ofsubjection to them in which they havealways laboured to retain them. Theservice in the Chapels seems like some¬thing done by the Priest for the people,uot a service in which the people areto unite with him fiom beginning toend.Again, if the prayers were not inLatin, the people would soon come tosee that some of them were foolish,11and some of them were wicked. Whatwould any man think ofsuch prayers asthe following, if the were asked to saythem in plain English “ O St. Mary,who dost enlighten the whole world,who dost illuminate hearts, who art theFountain of Mercy, from all evil, goodLady, deliver us.*’ O hjly Dorothy,a clean heart create in me.** “ O St.George, save us from our sins, that wemay rest in heaven with the faithfulfor ever.*’ Most of these prayers tosaints ask from them what God alonecan bestow ; and we need not wonderat their wishing to hide such blas¬phemies under cover of an unknowntongue. nvThe evils which arise from forcingLatin prayers upon Irishmen are verymany. In the first place, God’s nameis taken in vain by every congregationthat joins in Latin prayers ; they donot understand what is saying, and howcan they unite in supplication ? or howcan their hearts be affected with con¬trition, by a confession they do notknow, or with gratitude by a Latinthanksgiving? They repeat the namewof God without; ha^ewing it j theytransgress the third conimaiuhueut.;and triiey fall under the rehuke vvltichthe Jews received from our Lord,“ This people draweth nigh to me witliwith .lips, and honoureth me with theirmouth, but their heart is far from me."Ip the next place, how can they prayin fahh, when they pray jn. an-unknowntongue? Yet.faith is required in prayrer , “ Let a man ask in faith, nothingwavering; for he that wavereth is likea wave of the sea, driven with the windand tossed ; for Jet not that map thinkthat he shah receive any thing of theLord.’4 St. James's Epistle, 1st chap.7th verse. Further, such congrega¬tions cannot tell what is asked for;because, while they are reading oneprayer in English, the Priest mav bereading another one in Latin- Now,since all these things are plainly con¬trary to the nature of true prayer jsince God has taught us, he must beworshipped in spirit and in truth; sinceSt, Paul has said, “ I will pray with thespirit, and I will pray with the under*st{inding ;“ and since no poor I'ish-13man can understand the Latin p'rayer*at Mass, he neithei prays with the un+derstandiilg, or worships God in spiritor in truth ; and, theretbre, we cannothelp believing that Latin prayers arenot fit for Irishmen, ns rlj 11 ri noiiorMow difFerently do all the ProtestantChurehes act; they follow Scriptureand common sense, in having publicprayers offered i up in a language whichall present understand ; there is nothword in any Protestant service that isnot intpmleclior the edification of thepeople. Portions of the Scriptures areread, and sermons are preached, to ex¬plain the -doctrines, and erifiore thepractices* contained in the Bible; Howcareful ought all Protestans bp to entjoy these advantages ; and while theyreject Latin prayers, which they do notunderstand, to attend the public ser*vice, which is in their own mothertongue.From all that has been said in theforegoing prges, we may learn that theProtestants, by having prayers in theirown language, prefer am! choose,—First, the practice of the ancient Chris-14tian Church, before it became corrupt¬ed, rather than the practice of theChurch of Rbme after it had departedfrom the tnuh of God’s Word. Theyprefer and choose, Secondly, true de¬votion rather than ignorant supersti¬tion.—Thirdly, they prefer what spirit¬ually comforts the soul, rather thanunmeaning and untelligible ceremony.—Fourthly, they prefer a rational ser¬vice, rather than one that is a meremockery ; more fit to amuse childrenthan to edify the church.—Fifthly, theyprefer what affects the understandingand the heart, rather than a servicewhich affects only the eye:—and lastly,the Protestants prefer and choose tofollow the wisdom and Spirit (f God,rather than the blindness and folly ofmen; therefore they believe, that Latinprayers are not fit for Irishmen,vnivi-d ' m : rtoi‘1fit* ’1$ !' 1'. IJ il lil I • • *a'uhAsiiM Tfiahym ! O .mW.MARGARET■{\ Jj-tow Muavfii .P.omBT s' voHAND THE MINISTER.A douse, religions, kintry wife,That livM a quiet contented life, <iTo show respect unto the priest,Whom she esteem’d within her breast,Catch’d twa fat hens, baith big an’ plumpAn’ butter she pack’d up a lump,Which she a present meant to gie him,And wi’ them aff she gaed to see him.Dress’d in her ain auld kintry fas‘on,Wi’ brown stuff gown, an’ braw whitebussin,A dark blue cleak an’ hood co’er'd a‘,Sae lade, sae clad, she march’d awa;Thus trudg’d alang—an’ hence, belyveAt the manse door she did arrive—Rapp’t, was admitted by the maid ;Ben to the kitchen wi’ her gade—Syne for the Minister inquir’d,Who soon came butt, as she desir’d.When she to him a curtchie made.An’ he to her thus smiling saidd6Min. O ! my dear Margaret, is this you;Pm glad to see you ; how d’ye do ?How’s Tamos, my auld worthy frien’?How’S Jock yoQr son, an’ daughterJean.Mar. They’re gaily^Sir, we’re a meatheal—Tho’ Tamie’s e’en biitcraz’dan’ frailBut here’s some butter, I present.ye,Which wi’ thir hens i complimeh-t ye.Min. Hovvt, Marg'ret ! this speaks t’ ex¬penseBut thanks ye’se getforrecompence:Wi’gratefu’heart, i freely tellYe’re ever kind an’ like yobrsel.Mar. Whisht, Sir! wi’ thanks—naethanks ava; iv : 'Ye’re worthy mair—the gift’s butb* s J : >1o inld jliab ABut this acknowledgement from us,Meansye’rebeloved by mean’ Tamos.Min. Sic.favours, sure I ne’er expected.Yetblyth am 1, Pm sae respected ;Fling off your cloak and follow me;Come ben, an’ rest an, crack awee :’Tis no sae aft ye come to see us;Ye’ll wait an lak your dinner wi’us-—It’s ready, waiting on my cornin’;wCome ben then, Margret, honestwoman 'Mar. Na, na, Sir! dinna speak o’ that,I’ll t ak’ nae dinner weel I wat:Wi’ gentle manners (ye will grant it)I’ve ever yet been unaequantit.Min. The manners t hat ye useat ham e—Use here/an’ banish fear an’ shame.1 *he com pany ’s but lew they ’ re w h oilyMr wife, a preacher, Jess, and PollyYe’se tak’ your dinner or ye gangJust no like me, ye’ll no gae wrangTo dine,- at length, she was advisedGade glawrin’ ben like ane smprised ;itjSpread wide hergown.herheadereck'd,Confus’d and i wkwardly sire beck’dWhile, vev’rend MessJohn, kindandfairConducted her unto a chair ;|An’ told them wi’ a knacky sentence,She was an intimate acquaintance.JIBlate like, aroun’ them a’ she gaz'd ;iBut at the table was amaz’d,She ne’er before saw siken fairlies,iSae mony antic turly-whurlies,iHow to behave, while she was eating,.-'■n sic a nicy, gentle meeting,She had great fears—1 er heart wasbeating,i18Her legs did shake—her face wa;sweating,But still she was resolved anon,To do in a’ things like Mess John.A* ready sitting face to face,His rev’rence, gravely said the grace;Then, wi’ a frank an’ open air,Bade them fa’on, an’ lib’ral share.But he being with the palsy troubl’d!In lifting spoonfu’s often dribbl’d,Sae to prevent the drops o’ broth.He prin’d to’s breast the table cloth.Now Market’s settled resolution,Was quickly put in execution ;For, as was said already, she did.Resolved to do whatever he did,She therefore also like the priest,Prin’d the cloth lirmly to her breast,(Wp a prin twa inches lang at least;YFbich smiles frae them at table drewAs far’s gude dreedin^ wad allow.- fiO'1' ■; ••! vjflSae soon as they the kail had supp'oTo glan ci n ’ k n i ves a n ’ fo rks th ey 2Ti pp ‘fWi’ them to weel fill’d platesfell keenlyAte—took a drink—an’ crack it frienly1But Margret only was a hearer,19She was sae blate j nought seem’d tocheer herSae mony things appearing new,,Cam’ ilka minute in her view,And fill’d her mind sae fu’ o’ dread,Cracking was clean out o* her head.In course, the Pastor, her example,That brought her there to feed herample,She notic’d twa or three times takeOut o’ a’ dish slaik after slaikO’ Mustard ; w hich she judg’d to beGravie, or some delicious brie;For Margret never did peruse it.Kenn’d na’ it’s name, or how to use it;But now determin’d to partake o’t,She wi’ a tea-spoon took d slaik o’t,Heedless she supped up the whole,Then instantly she looked droll,Dung doited in a moment’s space,She hung her head and threw her face lThrewdown herknifean’fork displeas’dSyne wi’ baith hands her nosesheseiz’d,While it did bite an’ blin* her een ;The like o’t sure was never seen ;For startin’ up as fast as able;The hale gear tumbl’d aff the table!The crash o’ crock’ry ware resounded,SDPlates tmntlin’—ilka ane confounded.Straight to the door she frantic flew,An’ after her Mess John she drew ;Which drnye the companya’ thro Other,Althey were kjppled baith thegither.But in a crack, the prins brak loose,An’ MargreJ^, ravin’ left the house,I lameward, mhaste, shehobbl* sweating'fell'd Tamos th,e disaster greetingWrung baith her ban's an'solerrfnsw'are,fo dine wi‘ gentle folk nae mair.OO OJ O J. Is u O ^ iQuiw i (UIAIe Jifi 1^ ; iiq, -JO .; . .n t ngv.M *iv !SODA WATER.fl‘o ill dcT oomooga-BOi b 'i.v )iU'Puir Scotland's scaith is whisky rife.The very king o' curses ;Breads ilka ill, care, trouble, strife,Ruins health and empties purses.It fills a peaceful Jand wi‘ strife,The ale house fills wi* roarin' ;It hHs wi' broils domestic life,Arp tills the kirk wi' snoarin'.• aa ?; qu hiimia to^‘Twas on a bonny morn in May,Twa three chiels did forgather,£1The nio-ht before they'd gane astray,A.,nd were a' drunk thegither:Wi' paifl their pows were like to part,Their very tongues did russel;Wi' shilpit look and shiverin heart,And throats as dry's a whussel.sleH hsxa nOO for a drink of sometldng cool,Says ane, for Tm maist faintin ;Then let's go in, another says,(For my poor head's just rentin.And I've the very best receipt,The stomach fumes to scatter ;Then lose nae time and let us getA waught o' Soda Water.Water will never do, says ane,Gie me some cheese that's mittie.And then a bumper o' good gin,Or sterling aquavitae :To make you right this is the plan,‘Twill make you fair and filter ;But says the.ehiel-that first began,There's nought like Soda Water.AU o. it n/ovn' t II’JIf Soda Water be sae good,G^ng ye and drink your fill ;But 1 w^d hae it understood,S>2That I‘d prefer a gill ;Water’s a blessing, nae doubt, fixt,And may it ne’er be missing;But when wi‘ whisky it is mixt,It’s then a double blessing..1 ^ vt|» &l >. :::»‘U5| hflAOn fixed air the hale house rang,Aud pointed observations, (wrangFor some were riyht and some wereAnd some were out o‘ patience.Ye dinna seem to be in haste.For a’ your chitter chatter ;Come bring it in, and let us tasteThis selfsame tSoda Watei.Unto ilk man a bottle's plac’d,In silent expectation.That they wad better be in hasteAfter so much oration ;It’s just to be, nr not to be,To take an unkenn‘d coze,Short-sighted man can hardly seeAn inch before ids nose..; • j&V/ r;Lor. o>lii Jdgoon e’DiadTI‘ll ask a favour trae ilk man,And ye will surely grant it.To drink it up as quick’s you can,Nor take^me to decant it;Like bugle-horns then in a raw,They glower up to the lift,^ntl it was hardly down when twaO' them began to rift.jrno v ' dj h) 'orit' 'i ■ dThat's curious stuff, it's made me weel,I ne'er drank this before,Wi‘ that the Soda Water chielGot up wi' sic a roar ;I'm gone, I'm poison'd, fatal drink !For me there is no cure.When o'er his cheeks, black streamsKan gushing to the floor, [like inkHe held the bottle up to bieak,Nae langer life expectin',Syne read the label round it's neck.The real Japan Hl ckin ;He's ill before, bu< now he's worse,Wi' gut and "'a' he's partin.And ‘twixt ilk boak he gaed a curseAgainst real Day and Martin.INSTINCT OF BIRDS.When the Lapwing wants to pro¬cure food, it seeks for a worm's cast,and stamps the ground by the side of4^4it with his feet 5 somewhat in the man¬ner we have often (tone when a boy,in order to procure Worms for fishing.After doing this for a Short time, thebird waits for the issue of the wormfrom the hole, whov alarmed at theshaking of the ground, endeavours tomake its escape, when he is im¬mediately seised, and becomes thepr£y of this ingenious bird. The lap¬wing also frequents the haunts ofmoles. These animals, when in pur¬suit of worms on which they fieed,frighten them, and the worm in at¬tempting to escape, comes to' the sur¬face of the ground where they areseized by the lapwing. The same-mode of alarming his prey has beenrelated of the gulli ..nitirq e&4 ‘Kg jm>i big MV/ ,92iuo k bang Ji:«d >iii l/dv/J* ofiA.xitjia 14 a/A ya(I 1 vit if»au;gAFI NIS.rio i d/iirwi-oiq ot Rtftf:w gni//<ji;.I silt nsri //deto 8'miow e idt sTd* ti .boot omoto sbia odt yd bnuoig oiIj gqmntg hn£