THEComical and Merry Trickso FTOM THUMB,THE WONDER! UL.TO WHICH IS ADDEDTHREE WISHESPAISLEY:PRINTED BY G. CALDWELL 2, NEW STREETWh«re is always kept on Sale, a choice and extensive As-Btortment qf Histories, Songs, Children’s Story Books,School Books, &c. &c. &c;THSHISTORYOF• TOM THUMB.This is an amusing little history, abound¬ing with so many ludicrous incidents,that it almost never fails to excite themerriment and risible faculties of theyoung reader. Tales of enchantmentsand transformations by fairies and magi¬cians, being mere chimeras of the brain,«,re believed by no one; and althoughthe wonderful achievements of the re¬nowned Tom Thumb are of this descrip¬tion, yet the many laughable adventureswhich our hero goes through makes thestory be eagerly sought after and greed¬ily devoured by juvenile readers of bothsexes.3It is said, that in the days of the cele¬brated Prince Arthur, who was king ofBritain in the year 516, there lived sfjreat magician, called Merlin, the mostearned and skilful enchanter in the worldst that time.This famous magician, who could as¬sume any form he pleased, was travellingin the disguise of a poor beggar, and be¬ing very much fatigued, he stopped atthe cottage of an honest ploughman toI rest himself, and asked for some refresh¬ment.The countryman gave him a heartyi welcome, and his wife, who was a very| good-hearted, hospitable woman, soonbrought him some milk in a wooden bowl,i and some coarse brown bread on a plat-J ter.1 Merlin was much pleased with thi*homely repast, and the kindesss of th#ploughman and his wife; but he could: not help observing, that though everything was neat and comfortable in thecottage, they seemed both to be very dia-pirited and unhappy. He therefor*questioned them on the cause of theirmelancholy, and learned that they weremiserable, because they had no children.The poor woman declared, with tearsin her eyes, that she should be the hap¬piest creature in the world, if she had ason j and although he was no bigger thanher husband’s thumb, she would be quitesatisfied.Merlin was so much amused with theidea of a boy no bigger than a man’sthumb, that he determined to pay a visitto the queen of the fairies, and requesther to gratify the wishes of the poor wo¬man. When he had accomplished his^arney. Merlin thought on the kindtreatment he had received at the cottage,and the comical whim of the little managain suggested itself; and, being on anintimate footing with Queen Mab, hetold her the purpose of his visit, and re¬quested her to grant the desire of thecountryman’s wife.The droll fancy of such a little per¬sonage among the humanf race pleasedth-e queen of the fairies exceedingly andshe told Merlin that the wish of the poorwoman should be granted. According¬ly, in a short time after, the ploughman’swife was safely delivered of a son, who.I5wonderful to relate ! was not a bit biggerthan his father’s thumb.The fairy queen, who had taken an in¬terest in the little fellow, came in at thewindow while the mother was sitting upin the bed admiring him. The queenkissed the child, and, giving it the name©f Tom Thumb, sent for some of the fair¬ies, who dressed her little favourite accord¬ing to the instructions she gave them ;An oal^-leaf hat he had foi his crown;His shirt of web by spiders spun;With jacket wove of thistle’s down ;His trowsers were of feathers done.His stockings, of apple-rind, they tieWith eyelash from his mother's eye:His shoes were made of mouse's skin,Tann'd with the downy hair within.It is remarkable, that Tom never grewany larger than his father’s thumb, whichwas only of an ordinary size; but as hegot older he became very cunning andfull of tricks. When he was old enoughto play with the boys, and had lost all hisown cherry-stones, he used to creep intothe bags of his playfellows, fill his packetsSrs0and, getting out unobserved, would againjoin in the game.One day, however, as he was comingout of a bag of cherry-stones, where hehad been pilfering as usual, the boy towhom it belonged chanced to see him.“ Ah, ha! my little Tommy,” said theboy, “so I have caught you stealing mycherry-stones at last, and you shall be re¬warded for your thievish tricks.” Onsaying this, he drew the string tight roundhis neck, and gave the bag such a heartyshake, that poor little Tom’s legs, thighsand body, were sadly bruised. He roar¬ed out with pain, and begged to be letout, promising never to be guilty of suchbad practices again.A short time afterwards, his motherwas making a batter-pudding, and Tom,being very anxious to see how it wasmade, climbed up to the edge of thebowl; but, unfortunately, his foot slip¬ped, and he plumped over head and earsinto the batter, unobserved by his moth¬er, who stirred him into the pudding-bag, and put him in the pot to boil.The batter had filled Tom’s mouth,and prevented him from crying; but.7i on feeling the hot water, he kicked andstruggled so much in the pot, that hisi! mother thought that the pudding was be-: witched, and, instantly pulling it out of| the pot, she threw it to the door. A poorI tinker, who was passing by, lifted up the| pudding, and, putting it into his bud-; get, he then walked off. 4s Tom hadi now got his mouth cleared of the baiter,I He then began to cry aloud, which so1 frightened the tinker, that he flung downi the pudding, and ran away. 1 he pud-i ding being broke to pieces by the fall,' Tom crept out covered over with the1 batter, and with difficulty walked home.1 His mother, who was very sorry to see;l her darling in such a woful state, putil him into a tea-cup, and soon washed offI the batter; after which she kissed him,s and laid him in bed.Soon after the adventure of the pud-) ding, Tom’s mother wnnt to milk her) cow in the meadow, and she took him a-( long with her. As the wind was veryShigh, for fear of being blown away, shetied him to a thistle with a piece of finei thread. The cow soon observed the oak-leaf hat, and, liking the appearance of it,'8>feeok poor Tom and the thistle at onemouthful. While the cow was chewingthe thistle, Tom was afraid of her greatteeth, which threatened to crush him inpieces, and he roared out as loud as hecould—“ Mother, mother!”“ Where are you, Tommy, my dearTommy, ?” said his mother.“ Here, mother,” replied he, in thered cow’s mouth.”His motherTjegan to cry and wring herhands; but the cow, surprised at the oddnoise in her throat, opened her mouth,and let Tom drop out. Fortunately hismother caught him in her apron as hewas falling to the ground, or he wouldhave been dreadfully hurt. She then putTom in her bosom and ran home withhim.Tom’s father [made him a whip of abarley-straw to drive the cattle with, andhaving one day gone into the fields, heslipped a foot and rolled into the furrow.A raven, which was flying over, pickedhim up, and flew with him to the top ofa giant’s castle that was near the sea-side,and there left him.Tom was in a dreadful state, and did9tnot know what to do j but he was soonmore dreadfully frightened; for oldGrumbo the giant came up to walk onthe terrace, and observing Tom, he tookhim up and swallowed him like a pill.* The giant had no sooner swallowedTom, than he began to repent what hehad done; for Tom began to kick andjump about so much, that he felt very un¬comfortable, and at last threw him up a-gain into the sea. A large fish swallow¬ed Tom the moment he fell into the sea,which was soon after caftight, and boughtfor the table of King Arthur. Whenthey opened the fish in order to cook it,every one was astonished at finding sucha little boy, and Tom was quite delightedat regaining his liberty. They carriedhim to the king, who made Tom hisdwarf, and he soon grew a great favour¬ite at court y for, by his tricks and gam¬bols, he not only amused the king andqueen, but also all the knights of theRound Table.it is said, that when the king rode outon horseback, he frequently took Tomlong with him ; and if a shower came oh,he used to ereep into his majesty’s waist-10teat-pocket, where he slept till the rainwas over.King Arhur one day interrogated Tomabout his parents, wishing to know if theywere as small as him, and what circum-atances they were in. Tom told the kingthat his father and mother were as tall asany of the persons about court, but inrather poor circumstances. On hearingthis, the king carried Tom to his treasur-y, the place where he kept all his money,and told him to take as much money ashe could carry home to his parents, whichmade the poor little fellow caper with joy.Tom went immediately to procure apurse, which was made of a water-bubble,and then returned to the treasury, wherehe received a silver threepenny-piece toput into it.Our little hero had some difficulty inlifting the burden upon his back; but heat last succeeded in getting it placed tohis mind, and set forward on his journey.However, without meeting with any ac¬cident, and after resting himself morethan a hundred times by the way, in twodays and two nights he reached his fa¬ther’s house in safety.11Tom had travelled forty-eight hours witha huge silver piece on his back, and wasalmost tired to death, when his motherran out to meet him, and carried him im-to the house.Tom’s parents were both happy to seehim, and the more so, as he had broughtsuch an amazing sum of money withhim ; but the poor little fellow was ex¬cessively wearied, having travelled half amile in forty-eight hours, with a huge sil¬ver threepenny-piece on his back- Hismother, in order to recover him from thafatigue he had undergone, placed him ina walnut shell by the fireside, and feastedhim for three days on a hazel-nut, whichmade him very sick ; for a whole nut us¬ed to serve him a month.Tom soon recovered ; but as there hadbeen a fall of rain, and the ground verywet, he could not travel back to KingArthur’s court; therefore his mother,one day when the wind was blowing inthat direction, made a little parasol ofcambric paper, and tying Tom to it, shegave him a puff into the air with hermouth, which soon carried him to th*King’s palace. The king, queen, and all12the nobility, were happy to see Tom a-gain at court, where he delighted themby his dexterity at tilts and tournaments;but his exertions to please them cost himvery dear, and brought on such a severefit of illness that his life was despaired of.However, the queen of the fairies,hearing of his indisposition came to courtin a chariot drawn by flying mic^ andplacing Tom by her side, drove throughthe air w^hout stopping till they arrivedat her palace. After restoriug him tonealth and permitting him to enjoy allthe gay diversion ot Fairy-Land, thequeen commanded a strong current of airto arise, on which she placed Tom, whofloated upon it like a cork in the water,and sent him instantly to the royal palaceof King Arthur.Just at the time when Tom came flyingacross the court-yard of the palace, the ^cook happened to be passing with theKing’s great bowl of fiirmenty, whichwas a dish his majesty was very fond ofjbut unfortunately the poor \ttle fellowfell plump into the middle of it andsplashed the hot furmenty about the cook’sface.IThe cook, who was an ill-natured fel¬low, being in a^terrable rage at Tom forfrightening and scalding him with thefurmenty, went straight to the king, andrepresented that Tom had jumped intothe royal furmenty, and thrown it downout of mere mischief. The king was soenraged when he heard this, that he or¬dered Tom tobe seized and tried for hightreason; and there being no person whodared to plead for him, he was condemn¬ed to be beheaded immediately.On hearing this dreadful sentence pro¬nounced, poor Tom fell a-trembling with-fear*; but, seeing no means of escape, andobserving a miller close to him gapingwith his great mouth, as country boobiesdo at a fair, he took'al eap, and fairlyjumped down his throat. This exploitwas done with such activity, that not oneperson present saw it, and even the millerdid not know the trick which Tom hadplayed upon him. Now, as Tom haddisappeared, the court broke up, and themiller went home to his mill.When Tom heard the mill at work,he knew he was clear of the court, andtherefore he began to tumble and roll/14about, so that the poor miller could getno rest, thinking he was bewitched; sohe sent for a doctor. When the doctorcame, Tom began to dance and sing;and the doctor being as much frightenedas the miiler, sent in haste for five otherdoctors and twenty learned men.When they were debating upon thecause of this extraordinary occurrence,the miller happened to yawn, when Tomembracing the opportunity, made anotherjump, and alighted safely upon his feeton the middle of the table.The miller, who was very much pro¬voked at being tormented by such a littlepigmy creature, fell into a terrible rage,and, laying hold of Tom, he then openedthe window, and threw him into theriver. At the moment the miller letTom drop a large salmon, swimmingalong at the time, saw him fall, and snap¬ped him up in a minute. A fishermancaught the salmon, and sold it in themarket to the steward of a great lord.The nobleman, on seeing the fish, thoughtit so uncommonly fine, that he made apresent of it to King Arthur, who order-sd it to be dressod immediately. When15the cook cut open the fish, he found poorTorn, and run to the King with him;but his majesty being engaged with state*affairs, ordered him to be taken away,and kept in custody till he sent for him.The cook was determined that Tomshould not slip out of his hands this time,so he put him into a mousetrap, and lefthim to peep through the wires. Tors,had remained in the trap a whole week,when he was sent for by King Arthur,who pardoned him for throwing down thefurmenty, and took him again into fav¬our. On account of his wonderful featsof activity Tom was knighted by the Kingand went under the name of the renown¬ed Sir Thomas Thumb. As Tom’s clotheshad suffered much in the batter-pudding,the furmenty, and the insides of the giant,miller, and fishes, his majesty orderedhim a new suit of clothes, and to b®mounted as a knight:Of Butterfly’s wings his shirt was made,His hoots of chicken’s hide ;And by a nimble fairy blade,Well learned in the tailoring trade,His clothing was supplied A needle dangled by his side;A dapper mouse he used to ride,Thus strutted Tom in stately pride !-j-— —16 -It was certainly very diverting to seeTom in this dress, and mounted on themouse, as he rode out a hunting with theking and nobility, who were all ready toexpire with laughter at Tom and his fine#prancing eharger.One day, as they were riding by a farm¬house, a large cat, which was lurking a-bout the door, made a spring, and seiz¬ed both Tom and his mouse. She thenran up a tree with them, and was begin¬ning to devour the mouse; but Tom bold¬ly drew his sword, and attacked the catso fiercely, that she let them both fall,• when one of the nobles caught him in hishat, and laid him on a bed of down, ina little ivory cabinet.The queen of the fairies came soon af¬ter to pay Tom a visit, and carried himback to Fairy-Land, where he remainedseveral years. During his residence there,King Arthur, and all the persons whoknew Tom, had died ; and as he wa? de¬sirous of being again at court, the &iryqueen, after dressing him in a suit ofclothes, sent him flying through the airto the palace, in the days of King Tlmn-glone, the successor of Arthur. Every17one flocked round to see him, and beingearned to the king, he was asked who hewas—whence he came—and where helived ? Tom answered—My name is Tom Thumb,From the fairies IVe come.When King Arthur shone,This court was my home.In me he delighted,By him I wa-' knighted ;Did you never hear of Sir Thomas Thnmb ?The king was so charmed with this ad¬dress, that he ordered a little chair to bemade, in order that Tom might sit uponhis table, and also a palace of gold, a span-high, with a door an inch wide, to livein. He also gave him a coach, drawnby six Small mice.The queen was so enraged at the h'on*-ours conferred on Sir Thomas, that sheresolved to ruin him, and told the Kingthat the little knight had been saucy ,toher.The king sent for Tom in great haste ;but being full) aware of the danger ofroyal anger, he crept into an empty snail-shell, where he lay for a considerabletime, until he was almoet starved with•-18hunger ; but at last he ventured to peepout, and perceiving a fine large butterflyon the ground, near the place of his concealment, he approached very cautiously,and getting himself placed astride on it,was immediately carried up into the air.The butterfly flew with him from tree totree* and from field to field, and at last re¬turned to the court, where the king andnobility all strove to catch him ; but atlass poor Tom fell from his seat into awateringpot, in which he was almostdrowned.When the queen saw him, she was ina rage, and said he should be beheaded ;and he was again put into a mousetrap un¬til the time of his execution.However, a cat observing something alivein the trap, patted it about till the wiresbroke, and set Thomas at liberty.The king received Tom again into fa¬vour, which he did not to erjny ; for alarge spider one day atacked him, andalthough he drew his sword and foughtwell, yet the spider’s poisonous breath atlast overcame him ;He fell dead on tlie ground where he stood,And the spider suck’d every drop of his blond.19King Thunstone and his whole courtwhere so sorry at the loss of their littlefavourite, that they went into mourning,and raised a fine white marble monumentover his grave, with the following epi¬taph :Here lyes Tom Thumb, King: Arthur's knight,Who died by a spider’s cruel bite.He was well known in Arthur’s court,Where he afforded gallant sport;He rode at tilt and tournament,And on a mouse a hunting went.Alire he filled the court with mirth;.kHis deoth to sorrow sqpn gave birth.Wipe, wipe your eyes, and shake your head,And cry,—Alas ! Tom Thumb is dead !20THE THREE WISHES.There was once a man, not very rich,who had a pretty woman to his wife. ()newinter’s evening, as they sat by the fire,they talked of the happiness of their neigh¬bours, who were richer then they. Saidthe wife, “ If it were in my power tohave what I wish, I should soon be hap¬pier than all of them.”—“ So should Itoo,” said the husband ; “1 wish we hadfairies now, and that now of them waskind enough to grant me what I shouldask.” At that instant they saw a verybeautiful lady in their room, who toldthem,—“I am a fairy, and I promise togrant to you the three first things youshall wish,; but, take care—after having21wished for three things, I will not grantone wish further.” The fairy disappear¬ed ; and the man and his wife were muchperplexed.—“For my own part,” said thewife,“if it is left to my choice, I knowvery well what I shall wish for; I do notwi-sh yet, but I think nothing is so goodas to be handsome, rice and to be of greatquality.” “But,” the husband answer¬ed, “with all these things one may be sickfretful, and one may die young,—itwould be much wiser to wish for health,cheerfulness, and a long life.”—“ But towhat purpose is a long life with poverty?”says the wife, “ it would only prolong ourmisery. In truth, the fairy should havepromised us a dozen of gifts, for there areat least a dozen things which I want.”—22“That’s true,’’said the husband ; but letus take time ; let us consider, from thistime till morning, the three thingswhichare most necessary for us, and then wish.”—“I’ll think all night,” said the wife,“meanwhilelet us warm ourselves, for isis very cold.” At the same time thewife took the tongs te mend the fire; andseeing there were a great many coals tho¬roughly lighted, she said, without think¬ing on it, “ Here’s a nice fire, I wish wehad a yard of black pudding for our sup¬per, we could dress it easily.” She hadhardly said these words, when down cametumbling through the chimney a yard ofblack pudding.—“ Plague on your greedyguts, with your black pudding !” said thehusband, “ here’s a fine wish indeed 1Now we have only two left; for my part,I am so vexed, that I wish the black pud¬ding fast to the tip of your nose.” Theman soon perceived that he was sillierthan his wife ; for, at this second wishup starts the black pudding, and sticka«o fast to the tip of the poor wife’s nose,there was no means to take it off. “ Wretchthat lam !” cried she, “you are a wick¬ed man for wishing the pudding fast to23tny nose/’—“ My dear,” answered thehusband, “ I vow I do not think of it;but what shall we do ? I am about wish¬ing for vast riches, and propose to makea golden case to hide the pudding.”—“Not at all,” answered the wife, “ forI should kill myself, were I to live withthis pudding dangling at my nose; bepersuaded, we have still a wish to make—leave it to me, or I shall instantlythrow myself out of the window.” Withthis she ran and opened the window ; butthe husband, who loved his wife, calledout, “ Hold, my dear wife, I give youleave to wish for what you will.” “ Well,’^said the wife, my wish is, that this pud¬ding may drop off.” At that instant thepudding dropped off; and the wife, whodid not want wit, said to her husband,24.I“ The fairy has imposed upon us ; shewas in the right; possibly we should havebeen more unhappy with niches, than weare at present. Believe me, friend, letus wish for nothing, and take things asit shall please God to send them,—in themean time, let us sup upon our pudding,since that’s all that remains to us of ourwishes.” The husband thought his wifejudged right; they supped merrily, andnever gave themselves further trouble a-bout the things they had designed towish for.FINIS.