THEflSION of ALMET.ANDro LIFE Pleafing to GODy thfjtis not Vfeful to MdNy?| TWO EASTERN STORIES,■Mrtune her gifls may variously dispose ;%d these be happy call’d, unhappy those :W- Heaven’s just balance equal will appear,i bile those are plac’d in Hope, and these in Fear.?us God and Nature link’d the gen’ralframe,t!-1 td bade Self-love and Social be the same.POPE.TO WHICH I* ADDED,ME ARP OF GROtVING RICH,AN INSTRUCTIVE TALE.STIRLING :PRINTED AND SOLp BY C RANDALL.1803.1 _THEVifion of Almet, 8cc.v<7i \/n <~&~> un u7~> un un u/nLMET. the Dervife. who watchedthe lacred lamp in the fepulchre!>f the Prophet as he one day rofe uprom the devotions of the morning,which he had performed at the gate of|he temple, with his body turned to¬wards the Eaif, anc1 his forehead upon;he earth he faw before him a man in(plendid apparel, attended by a long re-Inue who grazed ftediaftly on him, with.[ look of mournful complacency andisemed defirous to fpeak. but unwillingd offendThe Dervife, after a fhort filence ad¬vanced and faluted him with he calmignity, which independence confers u-on humility requited that he wouldueveal ids purpofe.* ( 4 )Almet” faid the Granger, ** thoufeeft before thee a man whom the h^ndof Prolp*rity has ov. rwhelmed withwretchednifs Vhatevtr I once defiredas the means of happintfs, I r ow pofiefs;but l am not ^et h ppv and there'ore jdefpair, I regret the hpfe of time, be-caufe it glides away without enjoyment; |and as C expect nothing in the future but Lthe vai ities of the pait I do not wilh Lthat the future dhould arrive. ITet [tremble left it ftrould be cut off; endmy‘heart finks, when l anticipate themoment in which eternity {hall clofeoverthe vacuity of my life, like the feas upon rthe path of a {hip, and leave no tractso my exiftence more durable than the ifurrow which rsmains after the waves ,1have united If in the treafuresof thy>wift’om there is any ptecepr to obi aim,,felicity vouchfafe it to me : for this pur^j.pofe i am come ; a purpofe which I yelfear to reveal left, like -ill the former, iifhonld be disappointed.’'Almet liftened with looks'of aftonifii*jitntnt and pity, to this complaint ofbeing fn w'hom reafon was knowi to bja pledge of immortality: but the ferenit]( 5 ^of Ws countenance foon returned ; aniftretching out his hands towards heaven,‘ Stranger.,, faid he, 4 the knowledgei! which l have received from the Prophet,I will communicate to thee“ As I w'as fitting once at the porch; of the Temple penfive and alone mine; syes wandered among the multitude thatwas fcattered before me ; and while 1 re-I marked the warinefs and folicitude which■ (was vifible in every countenance, l was■ Suddenly ftruck with a fenie of their: condition Wretched mortals, faid l,i to what purpofe are you bufy ? If to;produce happinefs. by whom is it en-•; jjoyed ? Do the linens of Egyptr ands;he filks of Perfia bellow felicity onithole who wqar them, equal to the'wretchednefs of yonder flaves, whom l•fee leading the camels who bring them ?Is the fiercenefs of the texture, or thecplendor of the tint*, regarded with de¬light by thofe to whom cuftom has ren-iered them lamiliar ? Or, can the powerl»f habit render others infenfible of pain,iifrho live only to traverie the Defert; awfcene of oreadful uniformity, where abarren level is bounded only by the ho-( 6 )tizon } where no change of p?ofpe&t nor tevariety of images, relieve the traveller »■from a fenfe of toil and danger ; of 1whirlwinds which in a moment may rbury him in the land } and of third, t:which the wealthy have given half their !fpofieflions to allay ? Do tbofe on whom,rhereditary diamonds fparkle with unre¬garded ludre, gain from the pofleflion cwhat is loft by the wretch who feeks them rin the minewho lives excluded from kthe common bounties of* nature ; to ;;whom even the viciflitude of day tnd tnight is not known ; who ftghs in p^r--.:petual darknefs. and whofe life is one i|.mournful alternative of infenfibiiity and tlabour ? If thofe are not happy who bpoflefs in proportion as thofe are wretch- ued who bellow, how vain a dream is the(life of man ! And if there is indeed ifuch difference in the value of exiltence, it<.how fhall we acquit of partiality, the >liand by whish this difference has been mmade ?“ While my thoughts thus multiplied, to-and my heart burnt within me, I became vfenfible of a fudden influence from above- i•—The flteets and the crouds of Mecca( 7 )Appeared. I found myfeif fitting on;e declivity of a mounrain, and per-> lived at mv righ” hand an angeh whomi /knev/ to be Azoran the Minifter ot"if 'eproof When l faw him l was afraid,, eafl: my eyes on the ground, and was aont to deprecate his anger, when he■> immanded me to be fdent' Almet? faid he, * thou hall devoted3 iv life to meuitation that thy counfei•:bight deliver igiiorance from the mazesff error, and deter prefumption from theirecipice of guilt ^ but the Book of Na-•: ure thou hall read without underftand-.jiig : it is again open before thee ; look;up, confider it, and be wife *“I looked up, and beheld an inclo.jure, beautiful as the Garden of Paradife,,put of a imall extent. Through the(middle there was a green walk j at theend a wild defert; and beyond, impene-, trable darknefs. The walk was (haded; with trees of every kind, that were co-i vered at once witn blofioms and fruit;innumerable birds were finging in the, branches; the grafs was intermingledwith flowers, which impregnated thebreeze with fragrance, and painted the( 3 )path whh beauty. On the one fide floweda gentle transparent A ream, which was 'juft heard to murmur over the golden •fands that fparkled at the bottom; and •>on the others were walks and bowers.!''fountains; grottos and cafcades, which!divtrfified the fcene with endlefs variety, ’but did net conceal the bounds<e While 1 was gazing in a tranfport,:of delight and wonder on this enchant-h i;ing fpot I perceiyed a man ftealing alongl |«the walk with a thoughtful and delibe-* •rate pace his eyes were fixed bn the :earth and his arms c^o^^ed on his bofom ; j,he fometimes .flarted as if a hidden pang* ^had feiztd him ; his countenance ;xprel. .fed folicitude and terror; he look rd round jhwith a figh and having gazed a mortunt 1on the defert that hy before him he.! 'feemed as-if he wiflied to flop but w^as ;impelled forward by fome invifihle pow- Ier : His features, however foon l^t- | >tied again into a calm melancholy ; his 1eyes were again fixed on the ground, and ; >he went on as before, wuth apparent re- ^ Iluftance, but without emotion. I was jflruck with this appearance, and turninghailily to the angel, was about to enquire.( 9 )p/what could produce fuch felicity in aI* being fun ounded by every object thatfcould gratify every feafsj but he pre¬vented my requeft,! ‘ iThe Book of Nature,* fuel he * is[ before thee, look up, confider it, and• be wife.*j *■ { looked and beheld a valley be-I tween two mountains that v/ere craggy; and barren : On the path there was no1 verdure, and the mountains afforded nofhade : the fun burned in the Zenith,and every fpring was dried up : Butthe valley terminated in a country thatwas pleafant and fertile, ftiaded withwoods aud adorned with buildings Ata fecond view I difeovered a man inthis valley, meagre, indeed, and nakedbut his countenance was cheerful andhis deportment a£t;ve : He kept his eyefixed on the country before him, andl looked as if he would have run, but thathe was reftrained as the orher had beenimpelled by fome fecret influence: Some¬times, indeed, I perceived a fudden ex-pr< flion of pain, and fometimes he ffep-ped Ihort as if his foot was pierced bythe aiperities of the way, but the fpright-c t© )llnefs cf bis counienance inftsntly re-torned, and he p«fied forward withoutappearance of repining cr complaint.I turned again towaid the angel, im¬patient to enquire from what fecret fourcehappinefs is derived, in a fnuation fodifferent from thar in which it might-have been exprcfed ; but he'sgaiif pre^vented my requeft : ‘ jflmet * faid he,remember what thou had feen, and letthis memorial be written upon the tabletof thy heart. Remember, dhnet, thatthe world in which thou art placed, isbut the road to another and that hap¬pinefs depends not upon the path, butthe end : Ihe value of this period ofthy exigence is fixed by hope and fear.The v/retch who wilhed to linger in thegarden, who looked round upon its li¬mits wbh terror, was defiirute of enjoy¬ment, becaufe he was deftitute of hope,and was perpetually tormented with thedread of lofing that which he did enjoy.The fong of the birds had been repeatedfill it was not heard, and the flowershad fo often recurred, that their beautywas not feen; the rivers glided by unno¬ticed, and he feared to lift his eye to the( " )■ofpcft, left he ftiould behold the waftetat circumfcribed it. But he that toiledhrough the valley was happy, becaufele looked forward with hope. Thus,:o the fojourner upon earth, it is of littleinornent wnether the path he treads be.r»yut>A wjth flctrcrs or with ihcrns ife perceive himfdf to approach thofeegions, in comparifon of which thehorns and the flowers of this wildernefsofe their diftin&ion, and are both alikeimpotent to give pleafure or pain.4 What then has eternal wifdom un-nequally diftributed ? That which can- make every ftation happy and without‘j which every ftation muft be wretched,|is acquired by virtue ; and virtue is pof-i] fible to all Remember. Ahmet, the vilionu which thou halt feen; and let my words(1 be written on the tablet of thy heart, that1 thou mayeft dired ihe wanderer to hap-; pinefs, and juftify God to man/While the voice of Azoran was yetfounding in my ear, the profpedt vanilhedirom before me, and l found myfelfagain fitting at the porch of the temple.|| The fun was gone down, the multitude1 was retired to relta and the fcleran. quietC *2 )©f midnight concurred with the refolunfion of my doubrs, to complete the tr;quillity of my mind.Such, my Ion, was the vifion whithe Prophet vouchfafed me, not for ii'.ke o! ly, but for thine Ah on haft rtherefore thou art cifappointed. 1not ini rudion be lofl upon thee; tgo thy way. let thy flock c;o;he tnaked, and thy table feed the hungrdeliver the poor from oppreflion, andof thy felicity.”Almet, in whole breaft devotion kindleu ,as he lpake# rc urned into the Temple,and the ftranger departed in peace.found Iciioity in trinpcral things ; athy converfation be above. Thus fhthou rejoice in Hope, and look forwato the end of life, as the confummatii( *3 )hro LIFE PLEASING to GOD, thatis not USEFUL to MAN.AN EASTERN STORY.T pleafed the mighty fovereign Abbase earth derive honour and dominion,fet Mirza, his fervant over the pro-ice of Tauris In the hand of Mirza,e balance of diftribution was fplendidth impartial!'y ; and under his admini-ation the weak were protected, theuned received honour, and the diligentcame rich . Mirza, therefore, was he¬ld by every eye with complacency,|.r..iile every tongue pronounced bleffingsnpn his head Bur it was observed thatihe derived no joys from the benefitswhich he diffuled. he became pentjveitand melancholy ; he Ipept his leifure inpolitude ; in his place he fat motionlefsjjpjpon a fofa { and when he went out,jihis walk was flow, and his eyes werepxed upon the ground. lie applied toCarafcan from whem the Kings of( 14 )the bufmcfs of ftate with reludance |) . ■and relolved to reiinquifh the toils oilgovernment, of which he could no long¬er enjoy the reward.He therefore obtained permiflion ta iapproach the throne of his Sovereign;.-and zfkcd w'hat was his requtlUJhe made this reply*May the Lord of the World forgivethe flave whom he hath honoured, if-Mirza prefume again to lay the bountyof Abbas at his feet Thou haft givenme the dominion of a country, fruitfulas the gardens of DamafcUs; and of acity, glorious above all others, exceptthat only which refle&s the fplendor ccthy pretence. But the longeft life is a .period fcarce fufficient to prepare for rdeath : All other bufmefs is vain and ,trivial, as the toils of emmits in the pathof the tr^eller, under whofe feet they 5perifh for ever ; and all enjoyment isunfubftantial and evanefcent, as the co¬lours of the bow that appear in the in¬terval of a ftorm. Suffer me, therefore, fto prepare for thd approach of eternity; ^let me give up my foul to m»citation;Jel folitude ana lilence acquaint me with ^( JS )myfteries of devotion ; let me forgetworlds and by the worid be fotgot-till the moment arrives in whichvail of eternity ihall fail and i lhallfotmd at the bar of the Almighty ”Irza then bowed himielf to the earth,itood filent.y the command of Abbas it is re-’tiled that at thefe words he trembied>n that throne, at the footftool ofk:n the world pays homage : Heiked round upon his nobles; but everyintenance was pale, and every eye wasbn the earth. No man opened hisiputh ; and the King firft broke filence,:er it had continued near an hour.|ii“ Mirza terror and doubt are comeflson me : t am alarmed, as a man whodddeniy perceives that he is near theli ink ud a precipice, and is urged for-' rd by an imhltable forces but yet I,ow not whetlfer my danger is a realitya dream i am as thou art a reptilethe earth, my life is a moment} andrnity in which days, and years, and;es are nothing, eternity is before me,►r which 1 fhould alio prepare : But byhom then mult the haithful be( i6 )vcrned ? Bv thefe on!y, who have ; :fear of judgmentf 6t t ofe alone w Hlife is brutal, becaufe, like brutes, thdo not confider that thty fhouUi < iq—Or who, indeed, are the Faithful ?J;Are the bufy multitudes that crowd tl rcity, in a flats of perdition ? \nd is tliiceil of the Dei vile alone the gate of P iradife ? *’0 all, the life of a Dcrvifejnet pelTible: !’o all, therefore, it cajnot be a duty. Depart to the houi|which has in the city been prepared fcthy reftdence ; I {hall meditate the reafoTof thy requeft; and may He w ho iiliinmates the mind of the humble, enab ,me to determine with wifdcrr?! *Mirza departed ; and on the third da]having received no commands he agairequefted an audience, and it -was granted.When he entered the royal prefence, hicountenance appeared more cheerful; hdrew a letter from his bofom. and halfing kilfed it, he prefented it with his righ,hand.“ My lord,’* faid he, “ I have learneiby this letter, which I received fron:Co/rou the Iman^ who now Hands befora,thee, in what manner life may be beif( *7 ) .jiproved. I am tnabled to lookbackkh pleafure, and forward with b -p? ;ltd I (hall now rejoice dill to be the;adow of thy power at Tauris> and toeep thofe honours which I fo latelyifhed to reftgn ”— The King, who hadlened t Mirza with a mixture of far-•ize and curiofity, immediately gaVe theI tter to Cofrou, and commanded that itould be read. The eyes of the courtere at once turned on the hoary fage,hofe countenance was fuffufed with anoneft blufti j and it was not withoutijme fell tat ion that he read theie words.I ' To Mirza, whom the wifdom ofyiplkbas, our mighty lord has honoured withifominion, be everlafting health ! WhenI heard thy purpole to withdraw theffleflings of thy government from thellhoufands of Tauris, my hear wasilvounded with the arrow of affliction,ind my eyes became dim with forrow.jput who (hall Ipeak before the king,iWhen he is troubled ? And who (halltioaft of knowledge, when he is diftreffedpy doubt ? To thee 1 will relate the eventsl*f my youth, which thou haft renewed^efore me ; and thofe truths which they♦ ( i8 )taught me, may the Prophet multiply to<thee.‘ Under the inftruction of the phy- !ifician Aluazery I obtained an esxJv know-.ledge of hi-s art To thofe who werefmitten with difeafes I could adminifterplants, which the hm had impregnated iwith the fpirit of health But the f tnes fof pain, languor, and mortality, which ^’were perpetually r'hng before me made jme often tremble for myfelf 1 faw thegrave open at my feet: l deiermined, 2:therefore, to con template only the ’egionsberpnd it, and to defpife every acqufition !"which f could not keep l conceived 3ri i2Opinion that as there rvas no meiit but If:H voluntary poverty- and filent medita-jhtion. thofe who defired money were not l;proper obje&s of bounty : therefore mo- fcney was defpifed. I buried mine in the-earth ; and renouncing fociety I wan- *dered into a wild and fequeltered part of lthe country ? my dwelling was a cave by « rthe fide of a hill; I drank the running ?)water from the fpring, and ate fu^h fruits :and herbs as I could find. To increafethe aufterity of my life, l frequently twatched all night, fitting at the entrance r(the- cave} with my vacs to the eaft,pning*myfelf to the fecret influenceshe Prophet, and expecting illumina-n from above One morning after, j nofturnal vigii, juft as I perceived thej rizon glow at the approach of the fun,; 5 power of fleep became irrefiftable,d l funk under it. I imagined myfelf11 fitting at the entrance of my cell;I at the dawn increafed, and that as Ioked earneftly for the firft beam of day,dark fpot appeared to intercept it. Irceived that it was in motion ; it in-eafed in fize as it Crew near, and at|:.ngth I difeovefed it to be an eagle Iijili kept my eye fixed ftevfaftly upon it,^nd faw it alight at a fmall diftance,where l now diferied a fox, whofe two/core-legs appeared to be broken. Be¬fore this fox the eagle laid part of a kid,jjtvhich it had brought irt its talons andBifappeared. When l awaked, I laidijinY fore-head upon the, ground, andIjbleffed the Prophet for the inftru6ion!jpf the morning, l reviewed my dream,and (aid thus to myfelf ‘ Co/rou thouEhaft done well to renounce the tumult,!*nd bulinefs and the vanities of life jC 20 )but thou h?fl; as yet on y done it iiThou art ftill every day buffedfearch of food ; thy mind is notat reft neither is thy truft in Provideni lcomplete What art thou taught by thivifion ? rf thou haft leen an eagle con tmifftoned by Heaven to feed a fox thi n-is lame, diall not the hand of Heavej’alfo fupply thee with food, when t’naiwhich prevents thee from procuring it t*,thyfelf, is not neceffirv, but devotionmI was now to conudent of a miraculovnlfupply, that l neglefted to w ,1k out torimy repaft, which, after the firft day «expefted with an impatience that left ma-little power of attending unto any.othersobjeft : This impatience, however Ua4boured to fupprefs. and perfifteu in my |refolution ; but my eyes at length began!'to fail me, and my knees fmote each f.other: i threw myfelf backward, and ihoped mv weaknels would foon increafebto infenfibilitv Hut l was fuddenly ijroufed by the voice of an invifible being, tw'ho pronounced thefe w ords : ‘ Cofrou, jI’m the angel who by the command of theAlmighty, have regiftered the thoughtsof thy heart, which I am now’ commif-j( ai )I^exI to reprove. Whilft thou waS;mpting to become wife above thatph is revealed thy folly has pervertedinltru&ions which were vouchfdedhee. Art thou difabled as the fox ?[ thou not rather the powers of thee i ^rife, let the eagle be the objedly emulation, fo pain and ficknefshou again the meffcnger of eafe and1th Virtue is not reit but adton Ifj doll good to nun as an evidence[hy love to God thy virtue will beked from moral to divine ; and thatointfs, which is the pledge of Para-i will be thy reward upon earth.’*At thde words^ I was not lefs afto-ed than it a mountain ha been over-td at my fret l humbled myfelf inuft ; j returned to the city j i dug.any trea(ure : 1 was liberal, yet I be-j|ir r«ch My Ikill in reftoring healthbody gave me frequent opportu-<s of curing the dileafes of the foul,.jit on the facred veftmtnts; 1 grewilu-nt be\ond mv merit ; and it wasdpi? afure ot the King th*t t (houldIji before > im Now, therefore, be(jpffenued } 1 boaft of no knowieoge( *2 )that I have not received : As the fai sof the defert drink up the drops of ra ^or the dew of the morning ; fo do l al -Who am but duft, imbibe the inftrudic »iof the Prophet. Believe then, thad*is he who tells thee all knowledge*prophane which terminates in thyfejand by a life wafted in /peculation, Hi 1even of >this can be gained When !gates of Paradife are thrown open befj •thee, thy mind fhall be irradiated if :moment; here thou canft little more tHpile error upon errorthere thou flibuild truth upon truth. Wait, thdrfore for the glorious vifron ; and in rmean time emulate the eagle Much:in thy power, and, therefore, muchexpeded of thee. Though the Almigalone can give virtue j yet, as a printhou mayeft ftimulate thole to ben :cence, who a£t from no higher mo'than immediate intereft j thou canft Cproduce the principle, but mayelt enfci:the practice f he relief of the poc iequal, whether they receive it from *tentation, or charity ; and the effefjj:example is the lame, whether it be^(ended to obtain the favour of Gem( S3 >an. Let thy virtue be thus diffufed ;d if thou believed: with reveience,du lhalt be accepted above Farewel.ay the fmile oT Him who fides in thesaven of Heavens be upon thee 1 Andainft thy name in the volume of His11, may happinefs be writtentFhe King whofe doubts like thofeMirza were now removed, lookedh with a fmile that communicated theif of his mind de difmifTcd the princeil his government ; and commandedevents to be recorded, to the endJit pofterity m^y know, That no lifet pleating to God, but that which isi'ful to mankind 1M, THE WAY TO GROW RICH.\OSMO de Medici S' Grand Duke ofmTufcany concerning whom, on ac-4j. of nis prodigious wtalth, it wasJnoured that he ha the art of tranf-ftaiion A noble Venetian, who tho*4 had but a fmall fortupt. was extreme-Ji-weil tetommentied to his Highnefs( 24 )(and, by his polite behaviour, addedaily to his credit in that court one dafairly put the queftion, and aflted thduke if he had the philofopher’s {tone anot ? My friend faid the duke, 1 havc!and becaufe l have a regard /or you.will give vou the receipt in few wordsI never bid another do that which i can amyfelf; I never put off till to-morro%what may be done to-day ; nor do l evethink any matter fo trivial as not to defertnotice. The Venetian thanked his rerenHighnefs for his ecret: and by obfen ting hisrules acquired a great eftate Ho’ \well fhould ; be pleafed, if not a few <jfmy readers fliouid do the like by obfer’iiing mme!THE EN.B.