THEiMerry TalesOF THEWISE MENOFTO WHICH li ABDKDi.A Collection of Jests.jfratKTEB A!U> SOLD BY T. J»££>tT3n, f '- -- 1823.O’tTHZMERRY TALESOf f BEWISE ME# OF Com AM,{’ ^ 9 '\Jw 4 |h.jJ ^ Fk- -—COOSOOO—T A L E I.SPHERE were two men of Gothutn,* and one of them was poing toNottingham-irurket io buy ftieep; andthev both met together on Nottingham-bridge. Weti.met, faid one to the other,whither are '011 going? faid he that•came from'Nottingham. Marry, faidjhe tfyat was going :hither, I am goingto the market to buy {he, p. Buy fheep!faid the other, wbich.wav will you bringth m home? M<r>y, faid the other,I intend to bring jheni over this bridge.By Robin Mooli, laid he that camefrom N vtingham b tr tho-n fhalt not dothat. By my aid Margery, faid theother, buf l will Ybu. Jhall not, faidthe one ; I will/ d the other. 1 henthev beat their {fives one againfl thejother, and then t ie ground, as ifa hundred fueep had been .betw’X'. ther.ir,Hold there, fatd the sme. Beware cmlay fheep leaping over^the bridge, faM'I the other. I care not, faid the one.IThey ihall come this way, faid the other.But they fhall not, faid the one. Then,faid the other, if thou make much ado,I will put mv finger in thy mouth.—You fha’nt, faid the other. And fo, asthey were in contention, another wifei ruin that belonged to Gotham, camefrom 'he market with a fack of mealon hishorfe; and feeing h>3 neighbours-i at ftnfe about (heep, and none b twlxtthem, foid he A.h! tools, w ill so ! n v;rlearn fome wit ? Then help me. fa d Ire,to lay this f-xk upon my ihouldei —'Then they did lo, and he went to thefide of the bridge, &nd fliook out thenual into the river, living. ITiw muchmeal is there in my fack. neighbours.: .M>rry. faid one, none. Then repliedthe other wife man, even fo much witis there in ypur two he ids, to finve for rthar you hj»ve not. Now, which, wasthe wifell of thtfe three, I fhaii kavt yt>Vto judge.* ^ T A L B II.Tuere v. us a. man of Gotham, whorode to the market with two bufhek ofwheat; and that his hp'rfe rtight notreceive damage bv carr ing too gre&ca burden, he was dferrmned to dirryUrn wheat hirnf ij' v.r- -hh own bao-k.andC < )and ftill kept riding upon His llorfe, tillhe arrived at the end of his journey.—Now I will leave you to judge1, whichwas the wHeft, his horie or hunfelf.TALE III.On a time the M?n of Gdtham wouldLain h?ve pinn’d in the cuckow, that Ihenight ling to them all the year round;and in the midfl of their town they hada hedge n;ade round in compafs. and gota cuckow and put her into it. and faid.Sing here, and you lhall lack ne therneat nor drink all the year. But 4thecuckow. when Ihe .perceiv’d hvrfelf en-compalfed within the hedge flew away*A vengeance on her, faid the Wife Men,weh&ve not made our hedge high enough.TALE IV.There was a Man of Gotham whowent to Nottingham.market to fell cheefe;and going down the hill to Notth g‘am-bridge one of his cheefes tell out of thewallet, and ran down thu hill. WThorefon,faid the fellow, what, can you run to themarket alone ? I’ll then fend them ailafter you. So, opening his wallet hefumbled the .whole down the hfli, °neafter. is? tVser Mother. Some ran into one bu8t^nd fome into another. However, he\ targed them to meet him in the maiket-3 ;iaee. The man went to the market toJ e t with the cheefes; and flay’d till thei arket was aimoil; over; then went andi nquired at his neighbours, if they f*w) is cneeles eome to the market ? Wny,« ho fhould bring them ? faid one.—rilarry, themfeives, faid the fellow, they r <r new the way very well A vengeancei n them, they ran fo f*ft, I was afra’d\ :iey would run beyond the market; I am «r erfuaded they are by this time almoftvs-far as York. So he immediately rodeVb York, bat was very much difappointed,or he never found nor he-rd of one qIim cheefes.TALE V.II ^ ^ ^ j t . ... 'vl A Man cf Go^nam boncht at Nottin?'- :rliam-rnarket * trivot, or barn-iron; tndn going home with it, his fhouiderst*rew aweary with the carriage; uponiftW-hich he let it down, and feeing it hadhree ieet, f»id, WWorefon, thou hall: -hree feet, -and I but two, thou filthloear me homes frt let himlelf down-ijapon it, and faid, Bear me as long -asIjl'ha-ve dexae thee^--lor 4f thou dolt not,-. ,thou'(6)♦£hou flialt {land fttil for me. The maa«of Gotham, feeing that hi? trivot would»ot move, S:and Hill, f*id her in theMayor’s name, and follow me if thouV'ik, and I can f;:c<v you the right w'ay.When he went home,, his v-ife himwhere the trivot was ? He faid, it hadthree legs *nd lie had but two, and hehad taught it the rest\iy way to his ht ufe,therefore it night come itfeif if it w ould.\Vh ere did you leave the trivot? faidthe woman. At Gotham-bricige.j faid he.So (lie immediately, tan and hitched thetrivot herftlf, or Other wife (he muft havecertsinly lo!l it, on account of her huf-1 ind’s want of w it;TALE Vi.There v, as a Smith of Gotham, hada la-ge wafp’s nell in the ffraw at theend of his forge ; ard , there comingone of his neighbours to haye his hprfefhod,, and the wafps being exceeding,b .the man wgsjbre (lung by one of ,therm The t^an -^jng, grieyoufiy af¬fronted, fad, Are w’orthy to keepa far<g!e or not to - have men dung withthide wpfps ? O-n^ighfjour:, laid the fmbh,bffcCdnicnt, chd ,i ftiall iccn put them,fromU )ilfifOtn fheir fiell. Immer’i^ely lie took!| a coulter and heated it red hot, andifthruft it into the 11 raw at the end ofi;his forgr. and fet it on fire, and burntiit up. Then faid the fmith, I told theey loon put them out ol their neft.- .  -  ; : -! - T A L E Vil.If "Jf- ' ^ *' 1 " • * ' ; *’ i ■' 'J* it- • L/ ■ Si»Os Good-FriJay the men of GothamCCOnfulted together what they would doi with their white herrings, fprats, andt fait fifli; and they agreed, that ail InchiSfifh Ihould be call into the pond or pool,nin the midil of the town, that their num-Cji ber might increafe againll the following11 year. Therefore every one, that 'had2!got any of thefe filh left, did 'call themall into the forefaid pond. Then faidnone. I have gotten fo many red herrings.IjWell, faid another, and I have left fo! many whitings. .Another immediatelyf cried cut, I have jufl as yet .gotten fo:> many fprats left. And, faid the laft,I have gotten fo many fait frfhes ; let| them go together into the great pond,i without any riillin&mn, and we may bej Jure to f-re like lords the next year.11At the beginning of the next Lent they^immediately went about draining'of thecjipond, imagining they fhotild have the| v ( 8 )iiQi, but were much furprjfed to Endnothing b it a great eel. Ah! aid the^,a mikhief on this eel, for he hath eatenup Our fith. What mull we do with him?faiti one to the other. K ll him, faid one;Chop him in.pieces, laid another. Nay*not fo,'i'aid another, but let us drown him.Be it accordingly fo, replied they all —• So they immediately went to another pord,and call the eel into the water. Ive there,■ {'aid thefe wife men, -.avd (bift for th>felf,fince thou ro*y not ex; e£t help from us.So they lelt the eel to be drowned."T AX E VIII. jOn a time the Men of Gotham hadforgotten to pay their rents to theirlandlord:; So one faid to another, To¬morrow mult be pay-day, by whomcan we fend our money to our landr• lord? Said pne to them, 1 have thisday taken a hare, and Ihe may carry (it,for she is very^quick fopted. Be it fo,replied the relt; she fhall have a letter,';*nd a large purfe to put our money in;and we- can dire6t her the moll readyway. When the.letter was written, andthe. money put into a purfe, they im¬mediately ’ijtied them about the hare’s^( 9neck, faying, Novr you mutt firfl: go toLoughborough, and then to Lr:;oeUer,and at Newark is o r landlord; thencommend us unto him, and there is hisdue. The hare, as foon as ihe got outof their hands, ran a quire conrrary way.Some cried after her, Thou mull firfl goto Loughborough ; others faid, Let heralone, for fhe knows a nearer way thaaany of us do.T A L E IX. 'vm T . „ ,..i , - , . , : ...... ... ,A Man of Gotham that went s-mtwingin a meindew, found a large grsfshopper.Ho immediately threw down his feythe,and ran home to his neighbours, and faid.That furely the devil \v?s in the field,and was hopp:ng amongft the grafs.—Then was every man ready, with theirclubs, and fthveS, halberts', and otherweapons-, to kill the gr dhonperl 1 Whenthey came almoit to the place wherethe grafshopper was, they f,»id one tothe other, Let every one crofs hin.felf.from the devil, for we will not meddlew.th him. So they returned agiin", andfaid, We were blell this day that we weriuno farther. O ye cowards, laid he that;I left his Jcythe in the meadow,-help me tot )^etch my fcy'he. No, anfvi'erndl they,k is pood to fleep in * whole Ikin. It ismuch better tor thee to loi’c thy fcythe,than to rnarr us all.T A L E X. ;Os a rertain time there w re twelveEru ti of Gotham that went to filh; andfome waded iuto the water, and femeHood on dry lard. And in going home,the one faid to the other. We haveventured word-ffully in wading. I wifliand hope, that none of us did comefrom home to be drowned. Nay, mar-y,faid the ons to the o htr, let us now feethat, for there did twelve of us come out.So they began to co’cnt chemfislves, andev-rv one told eleven. Sa d the one tothe other, th-re is one of us drowned.—Then th- y went back to the brook wheretEvhfid be&u Hilling, nnd fought both upand down for. nim that w.>$ drowned,,m king gryat lamen ation. A Courtiercoming bv, sfeed them whit it- wxs theyfought for. and why they .were lo veryfbrrowful?' Oh! faid thev, tht? day wowent to tVh. in the brot k, and twelve.of-us came out together but one la drowned,./Come, fcid.^c Courtier, rpount how: tuanytherethere be of you. Qje of them countedeleven; but he did --*oc count hirnfelf.Weil, faid the Courtier, what will yougive me. and I will find the twelfth man 2Sir, fold they, you Ihali h >ve all the moneythat we have got. He then began withthe full, and gave him a ftroke over theilionlders with hjs whip, which made himgroan, faying, Here is one; and fo beferved them all. When he came to. tdae)aft. he paid him Well, faying, Here isthe tweiftn m*n. Bitffiigson thy hearty. faid they, fur finding our brother.TALE XLA Man of Gotham; riding adong thehigh-way, faw a chee&olying on theground; fo he drew his Pword and pricke^.it witT the point, in order to. pick it up,but could not do it. So fie rode back' to-Nottingham, in order to buy a long—fword to piik < p the vhecfs'j* bat anotherman coming that way, alighted and pickedit up, and rode away with it. .The Manof Gotham returning... to the place, hepulled, out his fword, and pricking the. ground'; fa$d. If 1 had had bus this Lord,.5 I Ifiould hue hid. the cheeie my ip If, bafaoir another has got it.f ** >.U/ifTTALE XU.\snc: : v ; ' \^ ! ' A Man in Gotham that d'd not lovehis*5 wifr.; and (he having fair hair, herflrfbird fiud divers times, he wouldit ; ff but durft not do it when Ihe1; Was aaske. fo he refolved to do it when‘Wre was nfl ep Therefore ode nigut hetook up a pair of Iheers, and put themunder his pilldW; which his wife per¬ceiving, faid to one of her maids, Go toben to my hi fbfind, for he intends to cat©ff .ny hair to-night; let him cut off thyhair, and I will give thee as good a kirtleas ever thou didli fee. The maid did fo,and feigned herfdf afleep; which the manperceiving, cot off the maid’s hair, and* wrapped it about the Ihreers,: and laid]thenr under the' pillow, and went to■ftep. Tfrfe frbaid arofe, and the wife!STt/ok the hair and flieers, and wient to)the hsM; and there burned the hair.—jThe man had a fine horfe that he lovedjr 'much, and 'the goodwife went^into the)flabie, cut eff the herfe’s tail, ..wrappedt tlie fheers up4n.it; and: then daid t;’eirJ ■Krrder the pillohv again, hfer1 hi.fb%nedteing ther ^combing her head in th«imorning, marvtffi&d, very much therea'Thii( i3)l ! The g’r? feeing her matter in a deep find/,'i; find, What the devil ails the horfe iathe tta le ? He bleeds procigioufly-The mm ran into the liable, and found: the horte’s tail was cu* off; then going! to his o> d, he found the Iheers wrappedup in his norfe’s tail. He then y ent toI his wife, faykvg, 1 crave thy mercy, for«' I inte ded to cit ofT thy hair, but havecut ( fif ny own horfe’s fad. Yec, faidfhe SJif-do, feif have. Many men thinkto do a bad turn to otners, but it turnethoft-times upon themtelves.TALE XIII.A Man of Gotham laid his wife »wager, that fne could not make hima cuckold. . That I foon can do, (aid fhe.• Then do not fpare me, faid he, but dowhat you pleale. So dpon a time fhe• had hid all the fpiggots and faufets, and• going in:o \he buttery, fet the barrela-broach^ and cry?d to her fpoufe, P'ayr bring me a fpiggot a d faufet or elfethe ale will aiil run out. He To ugh tup■'“and down, but could n6r find one. Come• here then, faid fhe, and put thy .fingerin the tap-hole. Then file called a tailor,4 with whom Ihe had made a bargain.—Soca( H)S‘oon sfter Uia cat;ie to her hufbaad, andbr a pijgit and faufet, faymg,Pull thy finger out of the tap-hole, goodcocked B hrevv yoar heart for your" trou de faid ne; make no fuch bargainwiih me a^aio.TALE XIV.■TJA Man Gntbam took a youngbuzzard, and invited four or five gentle¬men’s fervants to the eating of it; butbis w;fe r.r:d two of her gofiips ate upthe buzzird, and killed an old goafe, andput it to the fi-e for the gentlemen’sfervants. So when they came, the gooiewas Lt before them. Wh-t is this, faidone of them? The goodtpan ,faid, tt wasa curious buzztrd. A b zzsu^d ! faid they,why ’tis an old goofs, and thou art buta knave to .mock ais ; and fo in a greatanger departed home. The fellow wa«very forry that he had jflf pnted thgm,and took a bag, and put the buzzard’s(eatlv rs in ii; but his wife defir-cd himto fetch a block of wood, and while hedid fo. fhe pulled out all |i e b zz ird’sfei'.hei's, and put in the goofe’s, l henthe- man tak:ng the bag,- went to thegentlemen’s ierva-nts, ard faid. Pray becot angry with me, you ftiall fee I hadv’//( >s )* i Vza^rd, for here be the fetthers.-*-i |The:i he opened the ba? and took out; lithe goofe’s feitners. U, on which oneHof t.'em took a cudgel, and save him1 a d\z n of hripts. faying. Why, youi knav . could ' ou. not be content to mockus t one; b t are ye come here alf©to mock us with your goofe’s feathers ?TALE XV.A man’s wife of Gotham being deli-1 vgred.of a male child, the father of theHf. child invited the goffips, which were all■if children of eight or ten years of age.-—The elded child s nam ' was Gilbert,:i the fecond’s name was Huniphrey, and111 the godmother’s name was Ghriflibel—I T'eir parents admonifhed ihem before-d hand that they inuft all fay after thed Parfon. So whsn they were all cometo the Church, to get the Child baptized,the Pried fa d, you all agreed about■the Child’s name? Gilbert, Humphrey,and Chrillibe1, faid the fame words over.The Pried then faid, WheretVe d-d youcome higher ? i'ht-n ti.ey immediatelyfaid the fame. The Prieft bting-amazid,anj could not tell wh»t to fay, he tbeawhillkdi and faid Whey, and fo didtcey. T he Pneit being angry, faid, Qohomej(>«)iToms fool?, go home. Then Gilbert!Humphry, and Chriftibel, did the fameThe Pritfl then provided godfathers amjgodmothers himfelf.Here a man may fee. that childrec|can do nothing without good inflruftionsi.and that they fureiy are not wife who|aifregard them.T ALE XVI;Theks was a voung Man of Gotham*who *er.t a-wooing to a (air maiden,and his mother advried him before-hand,favihg. Whenever yoa look at her, calla fheep’s eye at her, ?nd fay. How doflthon, my fweet Pigfnie ? The IjIIow wentto a butcher’s (hop, and bought feven oreight paif of (beep’s eyes. And whenthis lufty w’ooer was at dinner, he wouldlook upon this fair v/tnch, and call inher face a (beep’s eye. a*’d laid. How dofttho'd do, my fweet Pigfnie ? How do I,faid the wench, Swine's face! What doyou mean, by calling thefe Iheep’s eyesat me? Oh! fweet Pigfn.e, have at theewith another. But I diall defy thee,Swine’s face, faid the wench. What,rhv IVeet ^ld Ptgnie, be content now, foryou live till next year, you will batip foil l fow7. W’atk knave, walk* faid (he.TALE XVII.! Titere w*s % Man of Gotham wh#I would bs married, vand wr en the (Jay1 if marriage was come, thev went toi church. The Pried fard. Do you f*yi ifter r e. The man Lid, Do you fayi liter me. The Pried faid. Sav-tiot afterme filch words, but fay what I tell you;hou dofl but play the fool to mock the! iioD Scripture concerning marrivhony-rhen the fellow faid Tnoii dofl b' t playulhe fool to mock tlie holr Scripture' cohcei ning‘thaf’uimony. The Prielt didmof k'nh-w wllat to fay, and at length laid*jWT ^st fliaill I do with this fool ? Tlie mani faid alfrt. What fliall l do with this fobl?So-the PrielV took his leaae. and ftbLVdtadt marry them.' 'But he was i i. ft ruttedpy others how taydo, and was afterwardsEarritd. Arid thus the Treed of theotKamites has been perpetuated etfenimto this day.J T A L E XVIII.Tyr-RE: was a .Scotfro an who d weltj(£t Gotham, and he sock a houfe a littleiitftan.ee from London, and turned it into* public inn or lavern ; and for bis fign he, urould(t*)wsuld haive a boar’s head. Accordinglyhe weiv to a Carver, and faid, Sir, Canyou male* for me a bare-head ? Yes,-faid th<- Carver. Then, faid he, makeme * bire-head, and thou’fe have 2od;for th,y hire. I will do it. faid the Carver.So on;St. Andrew’s day, before Chriftmas,(cunv'ionly call=d Yule, in Scotland),the S ot went up to London, for theboar’s head, to fet up at his door. I fayto thee, fpeak, faid the Scotfman, haftthou rrM.de me a bire-head? Y^s. Lidthe Cirver, So he went and broughta rain’s he-d of wood, that was bare,and faid. Sir here is your bare-head —Ay, laid ths Scot, the meikle de’il 1 isthis a bare-headi Yes, ‘laid the server.I fay. faid the Scotfmar., I wi'l havea bare-head, like a head that follows theJbw that has.gryces. .'Sir, faid the Carver,.1 don’t know what-you mean by a fowand gryccs. Whkt, know you not a fow :that will gree*, and groan, and pry,A-week, a-week I What, faid the Carver,do you me^n a pig ? Yes, faid theS:otfman, let me have her head madein timber, and fet on her fcalp, andlet her fiug Whip.; *vhire. The CarverLid, he could not. 'fhen fa’d the Sco i-mau, Oar her as ihe’d ffng. Whip-whtre. ,'O—-o—oI I. • ' . .;fL •' Brb-t* cll-li1 ’'-300I :In old times the Wives of Gothim; met together in an ule-houfe , and v; heni they were fffrnibled, tnev faitHthev wereII all profitable to their hi {binds. Which; ; way, good goflips ? faid tne ale-wife —' The firft faid, I will tell you *11 good #:| gc{fip$ ; 1 cannot brew .nor bake there-(i fore I am every day alike ; and I go toi the ale-houfev becaufe I cannot go to thechurch; and in the ale-houfe 1-pray forfpeed-to my hufbandr and therefore 1 am-i Cure my prayers will do him more goodthan my labour. Then faid the fecord,I I am profitable to my hufband, becaufe1 fave him candle in winter, for 1 orderIall my family to go to bed arnight withday-light, and to rife in the morning bydav.light. The third faid. fam profitablein favtng bre?d to my hi {band, for 1 di inka gallon ot ale, fo 1 care not for meat .—Th^L fourth faid, I am very loth to fpendV. meat and drink at home, therefore I goto the tavern at Jtfotiinrham, and drinkI plenty pf wine. The fifth find, A ^ anwill( 4® >will ever have more company m teo-ther’s houfe than his own, and moftcommonly in the *le-hou(e. The fixthfaid, My hufoand has flax and wool tofpare, if I go to other folks houfes to dotheir work. The feventh faid, I fpareboth my ht fbmd’s wood and clothes, forI fit talking the whole day, at otherfbiky- fire fide. The eighth faid, Beef,fimtton and pork are dear. I thereforetake pigs, chi kens, comes and capons,being of a leffer pri'fhe ninth laid,I ipare my tiulband’s foap, for inileadcf waihing once a-week. I walh but once;a*quarter. 'Then faid the ale-wife-, 1 keepail my hulhtnd’s ale I brew from Touring,for as I wont to drink it aimoft up, nowi leave never-a drop.K v-’hr • • -.LT ALE XX.; ..'o I tot >*jni n :;i jlhnt> • *'On Alh-W-ediibrJay, the Minifler ofGotham would hfc’.e'a cbileftiou fromhis pariftioriers, and he faid unto them.My friends, the t‘inieTiis come that youmufl vfe prayer, T-(ling and alms, butcome ye to Thrift, I will tell you tndreof my mind. B it as for prayer, Tdon’tthink that two men in the parifh canfay their Parer-nofler; As Sir’falling,(a. )■/e faft always, for ye have not a.good»meal’s-meat in the year. As for alms-) feeds, what can they give tnat haveI nothing ? In Lent, you mud ?.ll refrain3 rom drunkennefs, and abilain from drink.. i^o, not fo, i&id one fellow, for it is anidd proverb That fifh fhould fwim.—! ilifes, ftih the Prieft, they mud fwim in. the water. I crave your mercy, quothihe fellow, I thought it was rather to ben fine ale, for 1 have been toid fo.—ti'oon after, the men ol Gotham came toirift, and being feven in number, thenefl knew not what penance to givef iem. He faid, If 1 enjoin you to pray,ti )U cannot fay your Pa'ei-nodtr: and.|J is but folly to nuke you fad, becaufan nu never eat a good meal's meat—-I* abour hard and get a good dinner onII inday, and I will partake of it. Anotheran he enjoined to fare well on Monday,In id another on Tuefday, and fo on, thatif ery one fhould fare well once in the| eek, that he might have part of th irji eat. And as for alms-deed, the Priedf d, ye be but all beggars* except onetwo: Therefore bellow your alms;|| i yor.rfelves.(1*)As Irifhman beir £ ufked, whether h(®r his brother were oldeft ? I am oldeft,faid he ; but if mv brother live three yenlonger, we ihall be both of one age.An Irifh fervant b^ing ftruck bv hismailer, cried out, Pox on me, if I *rncertain wmether he has kill’d me or not;btr f I am dead, it will tfford me greatfati-fAction to hear that the old roguewas hanged for killing nse.A deaf fellow going into London tofell a turkey, at H'-depark Corner, hadoccafion to untrufs a point; a gentlemanpafli sg by. who intended to put a jokeupon him, Countryman, faid he, There’sa fowl under you ; the man thinking thathe alked the price of his turkey, faid,Four Shiliings, mailer. I fay, there’sa fowl under you, faid the gentlemanagain. It is as good as ever you ate iyour life, fsid the fellow, either bake'Dr TO idled. You rafeal, faid the gentlfiman, I could find in my heart to kick youfound!y. Come chufe, faid the fellow,for if you Won’t another will.An Irifhman accompanying fils wife’s:!funeral to the Churchy a d, the bearerjs;[gbing [rettv o tick alerg, he call’d ou||,t».C *3 )19 them, Don’t go fo fsft, why fhould weftke a toil of a pleafure.Two Iriflinen walking together in!he fields, were hemmed in by a large:*itchi hich w^hen they perceived, quothme of them, We muft go back again,)r the ditch is too big for us to j mp: ver. Nay, quoth the other, I pioteitI’ll jump over, ahho’ I Ihould light iuit mk'dle of it.1 , I 4 . fj A number of French gentlemen diningIt a Uvem in Germany, the f;rvfnt-maid,{s file laid out the diflies, "let a ronfingirt; and her miftrefs fcolding her very?;verely for doing fuch a thing in hearingf the guefts ; Pfhaw, Madam, fays ihe,ou don’t confider that the lie .gentlemenIre all French people, aud they don’t“mderlland German.In Admiral Hawke’s laR engsgementith the F eneb, there was a fr.'or tin .oard cne cf the fiiips, had a ICjl fhot cfF;hereupon one of i is mefs-mates tookiiis leg up and put it under his arm, aridtarried him down on his back to the: hirgeon ; when he was laid down.,, ano-het of his nitfs mates Pock his head,: ird laid, he was forr\ he had loft a Ug.i5irou ttll a lie, you Ion of a v.h—;e. re¬plied( u )Iplied he, For I’ve got it under my tria.\s Dean Swift was croffing the ferryit Dublin, turning himfelf to one of thepaff n/ers in the boat, faid. Wcll,*friend,wnat profeflbn are yo^i of? I am a tailor,Sir, ani'wered the man (not knowing theDean.) Are you married ? laid Swift.Yes, Sir, replied the tailor. And whowears the breeches ? faid the Dean —My *—fe, anfwered the tailor.A gentleman one day gave his fervanta kick on the breech; upon which thefellow let a roufing f—at which hismailer was highly offended. The fervantfaid, Why, Sir, would > ou knock at a door1,and have no body anfwer you ?An Irishman at Cheficr, enquiring athis landlord how he could get to London,feeing told he might go in the Waggon,he rep’ied, No, honey, that won’t do, forI am always fea lick when I ride in aWaggon.!A Schoolmafter alking one of his boys.In a cold winter morning, what was Latit|for cold, the boy hefuated a little  What, fi rah, Lid the Schoolmafter, can’tyou tell? Yes',yes, cried the boy, I haverit at my finger-ends.F J J S.