THELIFE AND TRANSACTIONSOFJiiiie Shore,Concubine to King Edward IVth,CONTAININGAn Account of her Parentage, Wit, and Beautvher Marriage with Mr. Shore; the King’tVisits to her; her going to Court, and leavingher Husband ; her great Distress and Miseryafter the King’s Death, &c.:j: : I I «>} b- ‘jfi.rrVi sd) t d ■ rrTo which i., added,THE HISTORY OFKL1Z A BETH SI’E W A BT.aiag a“ .o;niiotfi.■jy n hofr' \ r /prr.OD i .1 en i; o pyv/ f> -KILMARNOCKPRINTED for the booksellers.T HRLIFE AND TRANS AC HONSOFMrs. JANE SHORE.Mbs JANE SHORE was daughter to Mr.,Thomas Wainstead, a citizen of good repute,•who lived in Cheapside, by trade a mercer. Shebeing the only child of her parents, was-broughtup with all the care and tenderness imaginable,rot wanting any education that was proper forher; and her naturd temper, which was Veryairy, being joined to her education, and that de¬gree of pride, which, as it is natural, some makenecessary for the female sex. helped to set heriff to the best advantage. Fine feathers alwaysmake fine birds; and if the birds are fine with¬out them, doubtless they make them doubly so.This lovelj woman was the delight of her fa¬ther, who clothed her richly, adorning her withjewels; and, his trade lying among the court :indies, fie often carried her with him. to shew herthe pastimes which were made frequently there,to divert the queen, &c , which gave her an earlylonging after a greater gentility than she had everyet attained to, or her city breeding was fit toproduce.When she grew to the age of fifteen, her com¬petent stock of beauty and good carriage, causedmany to fall in love with her, and some great3lords fixed their eyes upou her, to get her for *mistress, which her father perceiving, tent hexto his sister at Northampton, where she remainedabqut a year, till he supposed the inquiry afterher was over, ami that she might return withoutany hazard of being any further tempted to lewd-ness: yet she was no soonrr returned, than a plotwas laid one night to have her carried away byLord Hastings, whp, after the death of Kiqg Ld-ward, took her for his concubine, as will appearin the close of this history. But, the ni/td hehad bribed with gold to get her abroad, repent¬ing of such treachery to her master, gave tinjelynotice, and so prevented h.Her father perceiving, that unless he tepk spmespeedy course, her great stock of beauty wouldbe her rum, resolved to marry iier, so that havingsurrendered her virginity, and being m the armsof an husband those that sought to crop her vir¬gin rose, would not regard her, but give overtheir pursuit.And, among those that courted, and earnestlysought fter, in way of marriage, was one IVutthewShore, a rich goldsmith in Lombavd-str.et, whomher father pitched upon as a fit husband ; r-nd ac¬quainted his fair (.laughter with his intention tomarry her to him, but she appeared very aveneto it, alleging sometimes disproportion of >ears,he being above thirty; at other times, his beingdisfigured with the small pox, and many otherexceptions site made However, her father’spositive commands, and the rich presents her lov¬er made her, won her consent, or seemingly sheyielded to the match, and so married they were4in great pomp; man} of the court, as well as thecity, being invited to the wedding, which waskept with great feasting, many days.The wedding being over, and tne bridegroomhaving enjoyed hia charming bride, grew exceed¬ingly fond of her, even- to dottage, which sicken¬ed arid palled her love tov/ard him ; and he per¬ceiving it, strove to wind himself the more intoher affections; and to this end he clothed hervery richly, and adorned her with jewels, deny¬ing her nothing she desired, or that he thoughtwould tend to her satisfaction or delight.It was not long before Lord Hastings heard theunw elcome tidings, that his fairest Jane w as mar-lied, which, . however, did not make him giveover his purpose of enjoying her fair body ; sothat often he resorted to see her, treating her athome, and her husband abroad; often invitingthem both to court; and took his opportunitiesto peur out many amorous discourses, endeav-ouiuig by all means to make her defile the mar¬riage bed. And one time, intending to try hisutmost efforts, Ire shrew her cn a bed when theyrvere d.one ; hut she got from him, and ran toher husband,,telling hnn plainly how rude LordHastings had been; which angering Shore, he'modest!) rebuked him, and forbade him his house, j‘'which made him go away in great heat, but re¬solving to be revenged.Thu Lord, Dung Chamberlain to King Edward *IV. having frequently his ear; and, finding hevi as much inclined to fine women, though he was‘martied to Lady Elizabeth Grey, took an oppor¬tunity to t;ll him of Jane Shore's beauty, extol-ling her wit above her features, which maJ? theKing hearken to this new adventure, and he re-so'ved to go to Shore’s shop in disguise to see her.The King, whose thoughts still ran on his in¬tended Mistress, delayed not long to pay her avisit; and in order to it; attired himseif like amerchant, and withdrew privately from court,being only attended by his page: and coming in¬to Shore’s shop, then the richest in all Lombard-street, he found the good man employed in hisbusiness; and, waiting till he was a little at lei¬sure, he desired to see some plate, which beingshewn him, he, under a pretence of carrying itbeyond »ea, soon agreed for a considerable quan¬tity : but yet no wife appeared, which made himdelay the time with discourse, of w'hat was thentransacting in England and places abroad, wherehe said he had travelled.This delighted Shore mightily, so ihat he or¬dered his man to fetch up a bottle of wine, andthey diank merrily, the good man beginning witha health to the King, which the King pledgedhim in. So when some other healths had passedthe King asked, if there was not a mistress to sofair a house ? otherwise, he could he’p him to awife, rich, young and beautifulFor this offer Shore thanked him, but told him,he was already married to such a one as he de¬scribed, whom he loved entirely. This discoursemade the King more desirous to see her ere hedeparted and asked if he could not have a sightof her. Shore, little thinking what was intendedfor his ruin, and proud of his wife’s beauty, soonyielded to his request, and ordered her to be.,cal-3e.l down, who came a'.tired in a sky-coiouie..lnjorning go'.rn, flowered with gold, embroideredwith pearls and spangles, her head attired withcurious lace, under which, her haW flowed wan¬tonly ; and her b'ujies made her appear sii.lmore biytutifui,( he King no sooner saw her, but he shippedforth and s.duU'd her coral lips, i:v rressisfg onthem many balmy kisses. Toen she, by her hus¬band’s desire, sat down, and the King drftnk toher, she pledged hdm, and passed it to Her hus¬band. Then much discourse ensued, in whichshe appeared so wirty, that the King resolved tohave her at any rate, and so presented her withsome curious tilings. He paid for his plate, whichthe good man would have sent home, b>it he re¬fused if, ordering his page to carry it; ahd witijmany kisses, he took leave of the charming f lii (one for that time.1 He king had no sooner departed, bo: JanC :asked her Husband, who that gentlfemari was, thatHad bein so liberal to her ? he told lier, he sai 3He was a merchafit, nut he knew him not- Ah !said she, F rather take him for some Lord in dis¬guise ; therefor^, dear husband, if he should Cordisagain, fd! him that l am sick, or any thing youcan feign t6 disappoint him.Mr. Shore v-as greatly pleased at her conduct,and more discourse had passed, but people com¬ing into the shop about business, she retired.The King soon arrived at court, where he hadbeen missed by his nobles, soon changed bis ap¬parel, and came amongst them with a very cheer¬ful cotnfteriance •, and though othetl were ignor-irt, Hastings well perceived where he had been,d the satisfaction he had received ; and nooner were they in private, but the King said,ell Hastings, thou hast very good judgment inae women: I have seen Shore’s wife, and shetcels the praises you gave her; l like htr wrll,id must enjoy her, but how must 1 bring itbout ? To court her in her husband’s presence,} a private person, I shall be served as ycu was ;<nd to do it as a Kirsr, will look too low for me 1 will not force her from his arms, for theti/ould cause a murmuring among my subjects,kho would fear the like by their wives and daugh-crj; but I must have her, and with her ownonsent.Hastings smiling, immediately said, take no:are, for this shall be easy to your Majesty : theres one Mrs. Blague, your lace-wo man, has a housej?ear Shore’s, and is very intimate with his wife.This womgn is very fond of money, to such anegrpe, that money would make her do any thing.(Her will I engage to do this matter, and trus^pie she will b.ring it to pass to your satisfaction.The King liked this device, and it was agreedIthat he should see her at this Mr?. Blague’s, an^have freedom to court her, but she should notknow that he wys the king, till he thought pro.(per to have it discovered.Lord Hastings was not idle in promoting hisItnaster’s happiness, but, with gifts and large pto-: prises, soon made the lace-woman pliable, so thatin any meetings were made at her hou-;", the KingI coming in disguisje as her friend; and? thcfugji! Mrs. Blague often left tfiem alone, and the K'r,gcsbirf&d hef w'jfh alt his rhetoric, yet she appear(AY averse to his love, and often blamed hirsharply for-persuading her to defile her hi^bard!bed; and then she would chide Mrs. Blague fi/suffering such a rude man to come to her hous*telling her the design he had on her chastityshe seemed very surprised at it, but entreated he.to be at ease, for she would -not sufltr hint ncome there again any mere.This pacified fieri but the plot was still deepelaid for her ruin, and at Christmas time she go-leave of Mr. Shore for his wife to accompany heto the.Court, to see the ball there, to whicn h*consented with seme unwillingness. And sooiafter she was introduced, a man of very comelyport entered, with a mask on -, and Mrs. Shouheard the ladies whisper, ‘ That’s the King iivho looking round thiough his mask, fixed hiseyes upon her, and immediately stepping to he?seat, took her out to dance along with him. Aithis she blushed, but not to be unmannerly, shecomplied; ami the dance being ended, he tookher to a single light, and pulling off his mask :csalute her, the perceived it was the same matwhom she had seen at her own shop, and at Mrs*Blague’s house; and putting a letter into her hand)he retired. She then coming to Mrs. Blague,desired to go home ; to this she consented, andthen read the letter, which was to this purpose :5 My Lovely Kne,* Your beauty has enthralled niy heart‘ ’Tis a King sues; you will be kind to him, and‘ by a line, tell him so to his comfort.’When she read the letter, she left Mrs. BlagueDlabruptly, judging that she had a hand in the mat¬ter., All this night the fair Jane was resdess: herhusband enquired the cause, hut cou'd not learnit. As soon as she got up she went to Mrs.Bhgue, to consult what she must do in tins strait,well knowing the King’s humour.Mrs. Blague, seeing her thus pensive, said,‘ Come, my dear, you must not be coy, nor denythe King’s request. You will glitter so near athrone, and enjoy a gallant bed-fellow. I find heis resolved to have you for a mistress, and there¬fore it is best for you willingly ‘o submit to him.’At fhis discourse she trembled, yet considering,from the many attempts her beau'y had caused,that it was not made to be enjoyed by one, in aifatal hour she consented.; and instead of writingan answer to the King’s letter, it was agreed thatvery night she should take her apparel, and putherself into the hands of the King. This beingconcluded, Mrs Blague sent the King notice,who sent a chariot for them; and in the meantime her clothes were conveyed away to Mrs.Blague’s. Hawever, she supped with her hus¬band, when on a sudden somebody came on afeigned errand, and said, her mother was takenill, and desired to speak with her. He would havegore with h-r, but she put it eff, and giving himthe last kiss he ever was to receive from her, sheleft him, and coming where the chariot stood rea¬dy, she and Mrs. Blague got into it, and wereconveyed to the King’s secret appartment, where,! they found him in his closet. He welcomed them,but it being iate, Mrs. Blugue departed, and the'ywent to bed.Mr. Shore fitting up iate, and his wife not re¬turning, was vety much troubled, and' went tohis mothei-in law's, but they had not seen her,nor was her mother ill, so that her absencetroubied the whole lamily. The next day wa$'spent in seeking for her amongst her relations andfne>;ds, but found her not. Mrs Blague protest¬ed she had not seen her, and dropped some dis¬sembling tears, so that her husband was almost’distracted, and at U t cbriTuded, that she was ta¬ken away by some courtier; arid, iti three d;.vs!after, a lady informed them that she was with theKin^. I his added more to their grief; they knew'rior what course to take; and they knew if theywent to cross the Kmg it would be their ruin.They made inquiry, indeed, if it was her vo-hihiafy act, arid finding it was, arid she quite uri-’willing to leave her new lover, they left ail hopeof recovering her so that Mr, Shore growing me¬lancholy, sold r ff all he had, and wbrit abroad ;but having spent his for urie, he returned in a poofcdtldition, and pr elided c ipping and filing gofdCoin to maintain himself; for which he sufiereddeath in the latter end of h. Henry VIII.’s reign. ,Jane Shore having undettd vp her chastity tothe King, pleased with the glittering of a court, ;and endeared by a monarch’s love, was admired iby the vulgar, towards whom she behaved in amost courteous manner.Her power was so great with the King, that Iyrhen his courtiers durst nor intercede for the'poorand miserable that lay under his displeasure, she,1)with, her wit, would so. abate his anger, that shesaved the lives of verv nr-auy, both poor and rici>nAnd though she could in a manner do all'with,aim, yet it was never known she used her influ-?nce to the prejudice of any. And both in Lot¬ion, and the progresses she made in the country,»be would cause poor people to be sought for,tnd relieve their necessities,, inducing and persuau*iig others, who expected any good educes fiov.J*e King by her means, to do the sane, never 8*1-ling her favours; and by h^r ready wit, sh“ so.hat-^rd the court ladies, who envied hi r aspiring, thatt.hiy found themselves unable to reparioe. Andtthough the King had another mistress before her,namely Lady Bessy, yet he preferred our heroinedutch above her, and wauM often merrily say, lyavc two mbtresscs, of quite different tempeis,one the most religious and the other the merriwrin England: and indeed she was had in great fa¬vour all the reign of the King, having ctowds, ofjptuioners waiting at he r chamber door, or at theolyariot side, when she was to ride abroad, whosesuits, to the utmost of her power, she preferred.As for Mrs. Blague, who least deserved of liter,she procured of the King a stately house and ma¬nor, worth 280/. a year. Die Romish priysysnuich spued her, because she sheltered many fromihetr r.ige and fury, after they had burned Johnliuss for an heretic.As no worldly pomp nor greatness is qf loqg^ominuance, sqdow her glory was enefed, ajvd heri days of inexpressible misery began ; for, the King[dying at Westminster, in tlie fortieth year of hi?reign, no sooner was he buried in the tbaR«l of12his d<vn founding, at Windsor, but Crook-backed!Richard his brother, who murdered Henry VI.and Prince Henry his son, aspiring to the throne,though Edward had left two sons behind him*viz. Edward and Richard, and several daughters,/all lawfully begotten with the Queen, he quarrel-iled with Lord Hastings, (who after the death ofthe King had taken lane Shore for his concubine,as now free) because he would not assist him in hiswicked project, of making away with his two ne¬phews, whom he afterwards caused to be murder¬ed in the Tower, aliedging that the Queen andShore’s wfe had bewitched hi n, shewing his wi¬thered arm, which all knew had been so from hiscradle; and, that lord thinking to excuse them,said, ‘ if they had done so, they ought to be pun¬ished.’ Richard furiously replied, ‘ Thou traitor,dost thou serve me with ifs ? I say, it is a tra hverv well known to thee, that they have done so,and that I will make good on thy body ; where¬fore I arrest thee, Lord Hastings, for high trea¬son.’ And, soon after, he caused his head to becut otF in the Tower.Lino Shore had no sooner notice of the deathof Lord Hastings, her paramour, but she perceiv¬ed a storm was failing on her own head, iherefoie :slie thought it necessary to provide in time, and so rshe carried her jewels to her old confident, Mrs.Blague, entreating her to conceal them for her;1 ,but Sue, like a faithless woman, when Jane came !and asked for them, not only denied them, but jwhim, in the greatest heed, she came to crave almsot her, she thrust her out of doors, threatening to'have hei ’whipped for her impudence.13Richard, by means aforesaid, having got to thecrown, and io make himself seem fair by otherssins, though he was a monster by natuie, pub¬licly declaring his mother to be a whore, his bro¬ther ana his children to be bastards ; caused hisOuten to be poisoned, and would have weddedhis neice. He ordered our Jane Shore to be ap¬prehended, stripped of ail she had, and do pen-nance, by several times walking in a white sheet;:and then walk bare-footed and bare-headed in hershift before the procession, with a cross and waxtaper in her hand, through Cheapside, which shedid, looking so loveiy in her blushes, that many aone pitied her ■, he also stripped ah her friendsand relations of whatever they had, pretendingthey had got it all by her means from the Crownin King Edward’s reign; which, with the disgracetheir only daughter was fallen into, caused her pa¬rents death. rrRichaid, not content with this, put out a se¬vere proclamation to this effect: That on the painof death and confiscation of goods, no one shouldharbour her in their houses, nor relieve her withfood or raiment. So that she went wandering upand down io find her food upon the bushes, andon the duri ’h lls, where some friends she had rais¬ed would throw bones with more meat than ordi-n try, and crusts of stale bread, in the places whereshe generally haunted. And a baker, who hadbeen condemned to die for a not in King Edward’sreign, and saved by her means, as he saw her passalong in gratitude for her kindness, would trun¬dle a penny loaf after her, which she thankfullyreceived, and blessed him with tears ip her eyes;-14btft some malicious neighbour informing againsthim, :hc was taken up and hange-l for disobeyingKing Richard’s proclamation, which so terrifiedetherfij that they durst not relieve her with anvriiing; so that, in miserable rags,! almost naked,she went about a most shocking spectacle, wrong?ing her hands, and bemoaning her unhappy fate.'Thus she continued till the battle of Dosworth-f^eld, where Richard was slain by Henry Earl ofRichmond, who succeeded him by the name ofHenry the VII.;; in which retgn she hoped forbetter days; but fortune raised hc-r another an-vwrsary, for he married Elizabeth, eldest dau >h«ter of Edward IV. and King Eduard’s Queen,who mortally hated h?r, then bearing » great a way,anotlter proclamation was issued to the same effve :and so she wandered up and down, in ?s poor andmiserable a condition as before, till growing old,a .! utterlv friendless, she finished her- life nv adwchi w^hicb was fro n thence, called SKoti- sHitch, adjoining B:»'hopsgate?street.Thus yon may see the rise and fall of this tmeestately, and then unhappy woman, with whoso.dying lamen'ation l snail conclude-THE DYING LAMENTATION OFMR§. JANE SHORE.Good People.THOUGcl, by the riguer of thela-w you a»e for¬bidden to give me »ay relief,, yet you. may pitymy unhappy state, for the beriptuit syith. 7 hot1'5ta tfre miserable pity s/ifinlrl be sbeteft. I aftirknv putting a period to a itiiitfabie life; a life1that I have been Ibng weary of. Nor would Idesire to live in'the Fp'endbur, pomp, and gloryof Edward’s court. No, I arti happier now on thedung-hill, thall ever l wds in his arms. For, oh •it was an adulterous bed irideed. C»h wrench!that Kirfg Edward! that ever l was betrayed byhim ! What floods of sorrow have my sins occa¬sioned ? Oh I learn fronil me good people, to be¬ware of vain delights; though they promise fa'r,they leave bitter stings behind them. Alas ! youknow my punishment is grievous in this world,and so it is, for 1 have endured a thousand deathsin one ; but now, my dying moments are come,I rejoice, .sincere repentance has secured myhappiness above. Dut O, where repentance is-notgSven, what seas of torment rack the soul ! Ohappy dunghill, how do I embrace thee ! Fromthee nty pardoned soul shall soar to heaven, thmighhere l leave this filthy carcase.O that the name of Shore may be an antidote,to stop the poisonous and foul contagion of raginglust for ever.THE HISTORYOFElizabeth Stewart.THIS yon fig woman was born in Lorn, Argyle-shire. She had lost both her parents at so earlya pdri id, that she scarcely recollected them y butl#tshe had a cousin who took care of her, andbrought her up as one of his own family. Withthis relati/e she removed, while yet a child, intoAyrshire, where she received such" an educationas is usually bestowed on the children of the lab¬ouring classes in Scotland. She could read Eng¬lish. and repeat the Shorter Catechism.While very young, she engaged as servant inthe house of a farmer near the Troon. Here shewas seduced by a fellow-servant, who had de¬ceived her by professions of attachment, and apromise of marriage. Alas! how many pooryoung creatures fall into this snare! and aretheieby reduced from a state of honour and hap¬piness, to misery and shame. The young man,as is very common in such cases, having disgracedthe woman whom he professed to love, abandon¬ed her to suffer all the misery of her degradedcondition She felt so much ashamed, that shecould not live with those among whom she hadformerly maintained a good character. She,therefore, left her service, apd with a bundle,containing a few articles of clothing, set out toseek employment where she was unknown. Withthis view she came to Glasgow, about the periodof hiring servants for the Martinmas term, in18l6. Having no person to recommend her,and not knowing one to whom she could applyfor assistance or advice, she went on the maiket-day to take her chance at the Old Bridge, theplace of resort for country servant^, out of em¬ployment, or those who wish to engage them¬selves for the following half year. She was notsp fortunate as to obtain a place, and her little17money being spefit, »l.e ha<i no re-t>cu ce, but tot<vke some ciieap I*dging, and sell part of heroiothes to p,iy for it, ami support herself till nextmarket-tlay when she might be more successfulat the Bridge.So far as is known, however, she was directedto a heu e of good character, but it was in a badneighbourhood. There resided in the same closeap o'd woman, who was hackneyed in the waysof vice, ant! who had just been liberated fromBridewell. Observing a beautiful young woman,with all the simplicity of country manners, sheimmediately market! her for her prey. She intro¬duced hesself to her acquaintance, and learningthat she had no means of subsists nee but fromthe sale of her clothes, the advised her to walkthe streets, as many miserable young women do,assuring hi r that, from her appearance, she wouldsoon attract the notice of gentlemen, and getplentyof money.ihe Lord interposed on her behalf, not in amiraculous, but certainly in an extraordinarymanner. While walking in the Saltmarket, ayoung man happened to pass, who heard her re¬prove the old woman for swearittg; for thoughshe had been guilty of great ein, and was puttingherself in the way of committing still greater,she was not so hardened in wickedness, she hadnot so far lost the impression ol a good education,as to hear with indifference the profanation ofher maker’s name.Ihe young man walked on, very sorry to seea simple, modest looking young woman in suchCompany; and in the meantime, the old womanin^rucfed her to make up to hi-ri. and ask himto take her along with him, and give her liquor.•She did as she v-as taught—she was able at onceto practise her lesson—for though the way oftransgressors is hard, it is not hard to learn tfeways of transgression, 1 Poor girl,’ said he, ‘ youare in b*d company. You are going to hell asfust as you can, and you will be miserable forever.’ ‘ You need not taik to rue at that rate,’said she, * tor it is you, and the like of you, thatleads us astray.’ She thought, no doubt, of herperfidious seducer, and probably she thought, thatall men were alike wicked « h is true,’ said he.‘ many young men are very bad, but that will notavail' you, it you lose your own soul, and 1 assureyou, you are in the way of everlasting misery.’On hearing this, Elizabeth burst into tears, roldher destitute condition, and asked what slit shoulddo? ‘if you will promise/said he, ‘to leave thiscourse of life, I will endeavour to do sontm-hiogfor you,’ * YesJ will,' said she, ‘ yes I will; on¬ly let me kn>w what l can do for myself, and fwill do it’He took her to his rpother’s house, and afterconsidering the matter, his mother and he did notthink it prudent that she should stay with themall night. They advised her to go to. i ta lodging,in which she told diem she had seen nothing im¬proper, and to return to-motro *•, and they wouldsee what could be done for her. In the meantime,they made her promise, that she would, on no ac¬count, go out nf her lodging till she was about totome direct to them.When the yxiuug Uiao began to rtfl ct oo whatr>h» ha \ (ior-c, ' e ftlt st a loss how to proceod. Hebath got a w otran of doubtful character ca hishands, and he did not know how to dispose of her.I His own character was at stake, and partly cotr..mitted already.In this dilemma, he went to cake the advice of1 is Minister, one of the gentlemen of the Metho¬dist connection. From him !>e learned,, what hedid not know before, that there was an Asylumin the city provided foi the reception of young fe-: males who had been led astiay, and who werei willing to return to the paths of virtue. He re-rolved at once that he would take Elizabeth to thisj house of merry.tShe canh£ fa his mother’s house at the hour ap-r pointed. He conducted her to the M igdalene Asy-I lum-, but be found that before she could be ad¬mitted. it was necessary to apply to one of thet managers.When the commbtee met, she app aretl beforethem, and told her story with as much delicacyas ths case w’oulvi admit. She spoke with the ut¬most gratitude of the kindness of the person whohad brought her there, ami had rescued her frommiseiy and ruin. When asked if she had gonefo the street after he had spoken to her i she re¬plied with an emotion that shewed she was hurtby the suspicion. ‘ No: he made me promise nqtto do so, and l w'ouM not break my word.’She was without hesitation, received as a per¬manent inmate; and she behaved in a most ex¬emplary manner. Her conduct was uniformlyhumble and penirt rvti?!. The w’riter of this h«4occasion ofteoer than once to address her aioryg20with the other women in the Asylum, anti to hearhtr read and repeat portions of Scripture, and an- lswer questions from the Shorter CatechismPart of the daily exercise in the ^lagdaleneAsylum, is the reading of the Holy Scriptures. ]Those who cannot read when they enter the house,are taught that most necessary art. Every Sab¬bath evening, during summer, there is a Sermonpreached, by on? of the Ministers of the city, ei¬ther of the Establishment, or of some of the dis¬senting congregations, when the lower part of theChapel is open to all who choose to attend, and aconcealed gallery is reserved for the penitents InWinter, a Minister, or some other member of theCommittee, attends every Sabbath evening, whenit is usual to perform family worship Besidesreading the Scriptures and prayer, it is the prac¬tice to address the women in the style of familiarconversation, in order to impress upon their mindsthe truths which they have been reading in the .Bible.Though saved from falling into the extreme ofguilt, Elizabeth had gone so far as to act a verywicked part, when she consented to go and makeup to men on the stieet. When, therefore, hermind was enlightened; she would appear to her¬self as the most hateful being on earth, as the ve¬ry chief of sinners. Christ came to save such.—She believed in him, and she showed by her tem¬per and conduct that she abhorred herself, and lov¬ed her Saviour.After being about twelve weeks in the Asylum,she was taken ill of a disorder resembling sea scur¬vy. At first she laboured much under an i.mpres-21sion of the divine wrath. Ah ! sin does appearexceeding sinful, when one is brought to a sick¬bed, and when the mind is agitated by the alarmsof an awakened conscience, and with the solemnprospect of a judgment to come. She was, how¬ever, gradually relieved from this state of mind,enabled to take hold on the hope set before her inthe (Jospel, and to live by faith in Jesus Christ theonly Saviour of the guilty.She expressed a wish to see the young man whohad taken her from the street, and brought her tothe Asylum. He was accordingly sent for ; andwhen he came, she told him that she had wishedto see him merely that she might tell him that hehad been the means of saving her soul. ‘ Yourescued me,’ said she, f from misery and sin.You brougheme to this house, where.1 have learn¬ed that which 1 trust will make me eternally hap¬py.’ He prated with her, and when about to de¬part, asked if siie wished to see him again. ‘ Nosaid she, ‘ you need not come again ■, I shall notbe alive to-morrow. I am a great sinner ^ butChrLt is a threat Saviour : and; Though his hand be strong to smite,’ I ts also strong to save.’‘ God, who brought me to this house will not for¬sake me in death. He is present and precious tome.’ She died aoout'.wohours afterwards.— Wash-I ed, and sanctified, and justified, in the name of1 the Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God;I vile sinner though she was, it is believed by thosewho witnessed her end, that she now stands with¬out spot m the presence of God the Judge of all.22The progress of her disorder had been very ra¬pid, Bca>cely a week.hiving, elapsed between itscommencement and her death; yet it afforded timefor the developement, and the exercise of thosefeelings which distinguish the Christian, or, whichis the same thing, the sinner saved by grace. Oneof the first fruits of the Oospel, in every one w horeceives.it, is ^concern for the salvation of others.Elizabeth exhibited this feature of the Christiancharacter. Within a few minutes of her end, sheexpressed a wish to seeraU th<? penitents in the -Vsy-lum. They had all been sfnw« hke herself, mostof them in a much greater degree. She. wishedto declare to them the mercy she had found inChrist, and to commend him to them all. Shehad now no anxiety about herself.Sne knew that shg was dying and told them so.She asked if they were ail present, shook handswi;h some of them, bade them an affectioiute fare¬well, and expressed an earnest desire that shemight meet them all in heaven. I‘or three monthsher jntercouse had be,en so'e'y with the people inthe Asylum I bis was all the world to her; andnothing less than the salvation of them ail was thedesiie of her he mt Like the woman ot Samaria,who had found the Saviour, she spoke of him toad to whom sire hat access; and evt-ry one whohas found him, would wish to speak of him, gndcommend him to the whole world.It was a happv circumstance in. the lot of Eliza¬beth, that she was checked in one of her first at¬tempts to practise the wit ked lesson which she hadbeen taught, and that the person whom she ad¬dressed.was one who knew the evil ot sin, and the23'riijsery of the sinner, and who was disposed to<lowhat he could to save a soul from death :Hadthe case been otherwise, she would, very hktlyjhayefallen into the deepest guilt and depravity, bhemight have become hardened in iniquity, the vic¬tim of disease, and death, and everlasting misery.Notwithstanding her providential rescue fro.n in-famy, indeed, she came early to the grave. Butwhat a difference between her death and that ofone who dies in her sins. I here are many poorcreatures, whose names are unknown ejeept injlieir own abandoned circle, who, having past afew years, perhaps only a few months, living, orrather starving on the wages of iniquity, are re¬duced to the deepest wretchedness, and sufferedto die without any caring for them, a terror, anda lolining to themselves, and to all around them.But it is in death itself, and what follows, thatthe difference will most stiikingly appear. Forone that dies in sin, there is reserved the bl *ck-ness of darkness for ever-^the gnawing of »thew orm that shall never die, and the fury of thefite that nev^r shall be quenched. The momentsuch a one breathes Ins last, his soul, covetedwith guilt, appears before the righteous Judge,w ho is of purer eyes than to behold iniquity, andwho cannot look upon sin. That soul must,rlveri-fore, be banished from his presence for ever,it is &«nt away into everlasting fire, prepared, forthe devil and his angels. When a saved s^pnerdies, hi? soul also goes immeduHely into the pre¬sence of God. not, however, like that of the other,covered with guilt, hut clothed with a perfect righ-I24teousness. His guilt has b<?en taken au-ay. He.has received a free, full, and everlasting pardon.All that Jesus Christ did and suffered in the room'of sinners has been reckoned to his account. Inthe finished work of the Saviour, he has a title toeternal life ; and this he had before death; for itcannot be obtained aftei wards. As soon as hebelieved in Christ he was united to Him. He hasthe benefit of Christ’s righteousness as really as ifit were his own.He is washed, and sanctified, and justified, inthe name, and by the Spirit of Christ. He is re¬conciled to God; and, therefore, when he appearsbefore him at death, he comes not as an enemy,but as a friend, to receive the crown of life, whichGod the righteous Judge will give to all who lovehim. It is the subject of pleasing conviction, tintthis crown is now worn by the poor wanderingoutcast, who was picked up by a benevolent mdi-,vidual in one of the streets of Glasgow.Onething iscertain, many as bad as she, and ma-,ny a great deal worse h :ve received the crown oflife. Christ came not to call the righteous, butsinners to repentance: and it is an infallible truth,"that he saves the verv chief of sinners, pardons:them to everlasting happiness. L'jt no one under,•a notion that he is better than others expect that'such will be his lot. Salvation is for sinners? Hethat trusts in himself that he is righteous shall notreceive the crown of life, but shall dig the deaths iand sutler the misery of the wicked.FINIS: