STORY OFTHEBITTER WEDDING.—*—GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.^ :cmr. 'tcmccwc'■ ■o I.WX1KD EOB JHE HOOK2£!ITEB3*:' ■<&erysco/A:BIXXEB iEEDDme-HEfeXOIiA OKr.W‘>. mm ‘>m '■■xm'J&Mmtj■ :■ - ■: ■ •; :W . X ■ )/v. “ .;)};THEBITTER WEBBING.—»e©IOIee«—One fine summer morning—it was manyhundred years ago—young Berthold set outwith a very heavy heart from his Alpine hut,with a view of reaching in the evening thei beautifyl valley of Siebenthal, where stoodhis native village, and where he designed tobe an unknown and silent guest at the danc¬ing and festivity of certain merry makers.‘ Ah, heavens,’ sighed he,- ‘ it will be abitter wedding! Had I died last spring ithad been better with me now.’4 Fiddle faddle!’ exclaimed a snarlingvoice from the road side. 4 Fiddle faddle !I! W here master Almerich touches his strings,there goes it merrily—there is the hurlyburly, dirling the bottoms out of the tubs andpitchers ! Good morning, my child ! Come,cheer up my hearty, and let us trudge ontogether in good neighbourship.’I'!i The young herdsman had stopped whenhe heard such a frog-croak of a voice, andnow he could not speak for laughing. Anodd-looking dwarfish figure mounted upon4one leg- and a half, and propped upon acrutch, with a nose 'as long as one’s thumb,came hobbling up quite out of breath, andmaking half-a-dozen wry faces, from a footpath on the left side of the road. Behimhim he trailed an enormous fiddle, on whichlay a large wallet—appurtenances whichseemed to be attached to such a little oddfigure by way of ballast, lest the rush of thewind down the valley /should sweep it away.t Good morning !’ Berthold at lastroared out, i you are a merry fellow, Masterfiddler, and will prove heart’s ease to me to¬day. In spite of my misfortunes I could nothelp laughing- at the sight of you and yourhugeous fiddle. Pray take it not amiss; alaugh has been a rare thing with me formany a day.’‘ lias it indeed,’ rejoined the dwarf; 1 andyet so young*! Perhaps you are heart-sick,n y sqn‘•Yes, if you choose to call it so,’ repliedthe herdsman. L Here in our mountains andvalleys, you will find a great many clouts offellows who will be fancying themselves inlove, while they are all the time eating,drinking, and sleeping, as sound as anymarmot, and in one year’s time can as easilypass from Margaret to.llosomund, as I fromthis town to the other. /That is all a mock¬ery ; I would much rather die than forgetj 5SiegelanS,—though for me all rest and joyare for ever vanished.’£ Aye, aye,’ replied Master Almerich, £ Ithought you were going to the dance, myhearty,—I heard you crying out a bitterivedding, and I thought to myself, ‘ Aha,he does "not get the right one.’i And that’s true enough,’ replied Ber-i thbld; £he does not get the right one,—thatHildebrand! I will tell you the whole matter,Master Almerich, as you seem to be goingthe same way, if I guess right.’£ Ah, yes, good heavens!’ sighed thedwarf: £ surely, surely, I would be going tothe wedding, if I had only got a pair of stoutlegs, but look you here, my dear child, whata miserable stump is this for crawling downthe mountain !—I am asthmatic too, and mygoitre has been enlarging these last fiftyyears,—and that wallet has galled my backsore all yesterday in climbing over the roughhills—.Heaven knows when I shall get tothe wedding! There was Such a talkingabout it on the other side of the mountain,that, thought I to myself, I will away tothe wedding also and make some money;so I took my fiddle and began to crawl upthe ascent,—yesterday I became quite ex¬hausted—and now I must lay me down hereby the side of the road and submit to fate.Tell me all about the wedding when you re-Vturn, child—if the wolves have not swallowedor hung-er killed me before that time.’With these words the dwarf, apparentlyexhausted, sunk down with a deep and mel-.ancholy sigh on the nearest stone, threw hisbundle on the grass, and stretched out hisbony hand as if to take a last farewell ofyoung Berthold, who stood leaning upon hisstaff, and gating upon the fiddler, quite un¬able to comprehend what ailed him.(Master,’ began the herdsman, c howdrooping! You have left all your gayspirits at home! Although it is a wearyjourney for me as well as you, I will yetendeavour to carry your wallet and fiddle,so I may enjoy your co/npany on the road.You must really hear what presses upon mysoul,—perhaps I may obtain some relief inspeaking it out, and you will haye some pithyword of comfort for me.The dwarf ^accepted the kind offer andquickly transferred his wallet and fijldle tothe stout shoulders of the herdsman"; thentaking his crutch, he whistled a merry tune,and trudged gaily on by the side of Berthold.‘ It is a long story, .this wedding,’ begunthe herdsman; 4 but I will be as brief aspossible, for it still grieves me to the heartwhen I think about. it, and whoever canunderstand it at all, understands it soon ; asfor me my sufferings will never be at an7end, though I should talk the whole dayabout it.‘ In the village there, below us, oldBernhard has a pretty sweet girl of adaughter, Siegelind; he has lived for manyyears, and his wife Gertrude with him, in anice little cottage by the stream, where theroad strikes off into the wood. Their tradeis to make wooden spoons for the herdsmen,by which, and the help of a gnat and a coupleof sheep, they gain their livelihood.’‘ Last winter, having g'ot some ashenspoons and cups nicely cut, I thought withmyself, now, as my father is getting old,and sends me with the cattle to the mountainsin spring, if I only behave there as becomesa herdsman, what is there to prevent mecoming down in autumn and marryingSiegelind ?i Ah, Master Almerich, my words do poorjustice to my heart; my feelings always getthe start of them, and reason comes limpingafter!‘ I beheld Siegelind, you see, movingactively about,—wearing a merry face lateand early,—all g’oodness and discretion fromtop to toe, and pretty too,—overflowing withgay spirits and merry songs without number:all this my eye, my ear, and my heart drunin smoothly,—she was satisfied, and the . . ;people too,—so in summer I was to goto7 8mountains, and at harvest-home to the wed¬ding, and in the meantime she g'ave methis waistcoat to wear on the hills in remem¬brance of her.( Old Bernhard went to the forest in spring- -to choose the finest stems, and to provide uswith nice furniture against the wedding.4 So one morning as he was ascending themountains through those ravines where thereare some marvellously fine trees, a little man,in an odd sort of dress, hastened to meet him,screaming violently and beckoning and call¬ing him so earnestly that he could not butgo with him. They soon reached a barn,where he found the stranger’s wife lying sickand in extremity. Her lie relieved andcured; but for me—bride, peace, and happi¬ness, were lost from that hour.’‘Ah, good heavens! ’ exclaimed Almerich;‘ you are talking bravely, whilst I amalmost starving—hop, hop, hop—we aretrudging- on, and my stomach is as emptyas a bag-pipe! Yesterday evening—no¬thing’ ; this morning—nothing! Oh thatbrave wedding-dance; the fiddle runs olf,and Master Almerich is starving here!’‘Now, now, the deuce, then,’ bawled theherdsman, ‘ what have you got in this cursedwallet? Here am I toiling on with thisplagued bag, rubbing the very skin off myshoulders,-T-if there is not at least a little ham9and cheese and fresh bread in it, why sho eI be smothered under such a bundle bf rate's '{Softly, softly, my son,’ replied tte ■fiddler, ‘ there are treasures in that walletan old barret cap of Siegefried, and an olsword belt of Dieterich, and a couple of o!leathern soles of Ylsan, child!—These.arno every-day concerns, my hearty ! Theyare all estimable jewels to him who under¬stands the thing; they are worth a wholemountain of sweet wine, and seven acres ofthick golden wheat, to him who knows theirvalue.’£ It may be so,’ said the herdsman, f I onlywish we had a few cups of milk in the placeof your treasures; but if it is so with yourstoniach, my good master, look you, here isa mouthful of goatmilk cheese, I meant toserve me for the night, but never mind, I amlittle disposed to eat.’' Berthold now produced his provisions, andAlmerich devoured them as greedily as if hemeant to swallow the herdsman after themby way of dessert. He then wiped his mouth,leaped briskly up, was again in good spirits,and stumped away before the herdsman asfreshly as if nothing had ailed him. Allthis, however, seemed very odd to Berthold,and when he again felt the annoyance of thewallet, he drew a sigh so deep that it echoedback from the neighbouring rocks.104 Lack a day!’ cried Almerich again,‘ the poor lad has lost his bride and his peaceof heart; I have been so concerned abouthim that I could not eat a bit ?'4 That fellow coidd devour the Stackhorn lthought Berthold with some indignation.4 The club foot is not in his right senses, Ibelieve!’4 It was really to bad/ began he, resum¬ing his story. 4 The dwarf in the barnreturned a profusion of thanks to old Bern-hard, and said, 41 am a foreign miner,and have lost the road with my good wife;so I have nothing* to reward you for yourkind services, save a little bit of cheese and afew draughts of wine, take that, and re¬member the poor fellow who gave you whathe could, and will pray that Heaven mayreward you farther.’4 Old Bernhard accepted the little bottleand a piece of cheese only to get rid of theimportunity of the dwarf, who would takeno refusal.4 Towards noon, he was proceeding to hisvillage; the road was long, and feelingfatigued, he laydown in the shade of a tree,took out the gift of the dwarf, and began toeat and drink. Meanwhile, who should myevil stars bring in his way but youngHildebrand, the most miserly fellow in thevillage! 4 God bless you, father Bernhard!’11Thank you my son.’ Thus the comversation proceeded. The niggard sees theold man comfortably enjoying his repast;so he sets himself down beside him and takesa share. There they eat and eat for aboutan hour,—but the wine never gets less, andthe cheese is never done, and both behold.the miracle till their hair stands on end.£ All was now over, Master fiddler, andpoor Berthold was undone!£ Hildebrand chose words which wentdovm with Bernhard as smoothly as honey,and the long and the short of the matterwas, my deaf sweet Siegelind was promisedto the rich miser, with the marvellous cheesefor her dowry. The old man was now quitebeside himself,—the young man talked finely—they were to outdo the whole village, andkeep their secret to themselves; I was calleda miserable wretch, and the spirit of mischiefjust brought me into their way in time tohear the whole sad story.’£ Ah, good heavens,’ exclaimed Almerichagain, £ 1 am undone with cold; it is turn¬ing a chill rainy day, and my bones are sonaked !—Hew, hew, how the storm blowsinto my very soul! This day will be thedeath of me.—I thought so before. Takeyour way, my son, I give you my fiddle ina present,—leave me the wallet here, I willstretch myself out to die upon it.’12‘ The mischief is in it!’ grumbled JJerlhold.‘ If matters are to go on in this way, we shallbe a year and a day hence still travelling *this cursed road? Hark ye, old boy, yoiare an odd fellow! what tempted you to thinkof wandering through our rough country,without meat or drink or even a coat, butwith a fiddle as large as a ton, and an emptywallet as heavy as seven three stone cheeses !’Tis a perfect tempting of Providence.!Why the deuce do you drag after you thatass’s burden of old rubbish, without so muchas the convenience of a cloak in your bundle!’4 It is all very true,’ sighed Almerich.41 am not yet accustomed to be the lame,feeble man you now see me. Thirty yearsago I could skip like a leveret over hills anddales; but now, farewell to friend Almerich,I shall never leave this place! However itis all one,—perish here, or die there, a dyingbed is ever a hard one, even though it should!be of down and silk ?’4 Now really,’ replied Berthold, 4 you aretoo whimsical, fiddler! The cold blast neverTmrts a tough fellow who is accustomed to(run about the mountains,—there, slip intomy coat, and walk smartly on, for a showeras approaching, and that rascally wallet isweighing me down to the ground.’‘Patience, child, patience!’ said Almerich—4 This coat is quite warm from your13i shpulders,—I feel very • comfortable iu it,—i slowly, gently, your story of the marvellousj cheese and wine has restored me to warmth■ —how did the matter go on ?’J ( i You rogue and rascal!’ thought BertholdI to himself, and thus continued his lamentabletale.i How did it go on !—Gertrude sang to the1 same'tune as her husband; Siegelind grew| savi, and lost her bloom and strength; the) old boy urged the matter, and Hildebrandj too,—Bernhard was anxious to get the rich(and proud son-in-law, and was in great fearlest the enchanted wine should , soon dry up,—the young fellow had money in his eye,and wished to turn the bewitched cheese tousury,—thus the wedding w’as determinedon, and I was left in sadness upon my moun¬tain. I tried to forget it; I thoughtSiegelind could not have borne me in herheart, otherwise she would not, even to escapedeath and martyrdom, have married the redhaired Hildebrand. Last night, however,I could find neither rest nor sleep upon mystraw, I must go and see her with my owneyes take that miser for her husband. Nearthe village I will wrap up my head and dyemy hands and cheeks with berries, so thatnobody will know me,—nor in the bustle ofthe wedding, when every thing' is turningtopsy turvy, will a living soul care for poor14Berthold. When all is over, I shall, so itplease Heaven, become wise again; or ifnot, my poor brain will be turned altogether,and that will be a blessing too.’e My good child,’ said tile dwarf, L you willgot over all this. I perceive very well thatit is a hard journey, and a bitter weddingtoo for you: but it is your good luck, mychild, that you have me for a companion—I will fiddle till your heart leaps again,—your sorrow grieves me as much as if it weremy own.’W hilst talking thus, a few drops of rainfell, which proved the prelude to a heavyshower; and although the travellers had al¬ready gone a considerable way, they werestill far from the end of their journey, andgush after gush, the rain poured upon theirheads till the water run down from their hatsas from a spout.Berthold trudged silently' on, sighingfrequently and heavily under his burden,—hfcould have sworn that it increased a pound’sweight every step, nevertheless it wras im¬possible for his good nature to think of giv¬ing- it back to the poor cripple in such a tem¬pest. The rain soon began to trickle throughhis waistcoat, and run in a cold stream downhis back, he wished himself, the dwarf, andthe wedding all far enough, but stalkedsullenly on through the mud as if he hadbeen wading through the highest Alpinegrass.The fiddler limped close behind him,croaking occasionally through his raventhroat, an old spring song, which told ofsunshine, and singing birds, and pleasure,and love. At times he drew himself snuglytogether, and expatiated on the excellencierof the herdsman’s coat, which he declaredwas jquite waterproof,-**and then he wouldexhort Berth old to step leisurely, to payparticular attention to the wallet and fiddle,and above all not to overheat himself.The herdsman would have lost all patienceand courage a thousand times over indragging his hundred weight of a load andplaying the fool to the crazy fiddler, if hehad not been ashamed to throw away theburden which he had volunteered to carry,and forsake the person whose company hehad himself invited. But in his heart hevowed deeply and solemnly never again tolend his coat to a fiddler, nor give away hischeese, nor to carry a fiddle and wallet, andafter all he mocked and laughed at by suchan odd quiz of a fellow. ‘ If,’ thought heat last, ‘ the upshot of all this is a fever inthe evening which canies me quickly off-—be it so,—it remains a hitter wedding!’After a few hours rain, the two pedestriansreached the valley, where a swollen and16rapid torrent, which had swept away everyvestige of the little bridge that led to thevillage, with the exception of a single small,plank, rushed across the path; the herds-'man heeded not the narrow footing, and wasstepping boldly across, when his companionbegan to roar out lustily about the dangersot the path : ‘ For my life and soul I willnot move from the spot! Neither cat norrat could passover there,—I would be a deadman if I ventured on that cursed^ plank!Let them fiddle yonder who can swim,—Iwish I was in a feather bed with my fiddle:for a pillow ! ’t Don’t make such a noise about it!’ criedBerthold. i If we have got thus far, we willsurely go on a little farther,—if I havebrought the fiddler this length to the bitterdance, I will also bring him to the weddinghouse,—though I am a fool, I am neverthe¬less a good-natured one.’With , these words the herdsman took offthe fiddle and wallet from his back, andsupplied the place with the dwarf, whom hecarried over as easily as a bundle of straw.He then returned for the fiddle, wallet, andcrutch, which lay as heavy as so many stonesupon his shoulders.i Well, the best of it now is,’ said he, thatwe shall soon reach the village,—but eithermy head is turned, or that wallet is filled17with flesh and blood, and master Almerich’sbody is stufted with chaff’!’4 Nonsense!’ replied the fiddler with abroad grin, ‘You have behaved well, child;it would be a great pity if the bride yonderwould not get you; you have the genuine: patience of the lamb in you, yet I perceiveyou have also strength enough, with yourheart in the right place, and as much wisdomas there is any need of in the country. Come,let us paint your cheeks, and put on the oldcap you will find in my w allet, and the greenwaistcoat and get that belt about you; to¬day you will be the fiddler’s boy, and not aliving creature know you.’The fiddler opened his wallet and threwout its contents to Berthold, whose face hepainted with cranberries, and beard and eye¬brows with a bit of coal, and then theywalked gaily on towards the village.Evening was just coming on, and the sunbroke out all at once from under the clouds,—the birds began to sing cheerfully,—theI flowers opened them leaves as if to listen,I and Berthold felt his clothes sooner driedI than if he had been sitting close to a large| fire.In a few minutes our wanderers mingledwith the merry wedding-guests ; noises andmerriment were echoing all around, and noone looked sad but Siegelind, who kept her18tearful eyes fixed upon the ground. Theold fiddler was welcomed with shouts ofapplause; for the rain had prevented thearrival of the band of' fiddlers and pipers who.had been invited on the occasion, and every;body thought it a piece of marvellous goodluck for the wedding that master Almerichshould have got through.‘ Now, children/ exclaimed the old hoy,‘ fetch us something to drink, and somecheese and bread, and do not forget thatyouth who has dragged myself as well as myfiddle here to-day.’The guests hastened to execute the oldfiddler’s commands, and even Gertrude andBernhard bustled about to serve him. PoorBerthold’s heart was bleeding, but he kepteating and drinking, that he might not beobliged to speak. Meanwhile the old fiddlerput dry strings on his instrument, and began,to tune it so stoutly that it thrilled throughmarrow and bone, and quickly drew theattention of all upon the musician.’1 Bless me,’ whispered Bernhard to Ger¬trude/ 4 upon my faith it is the very dwarf,who gave me the bewitched wine and cheese!Be gentle to him wife, and say not a singleword.’All at once the fiddle struck up so brisklythat the very house shook with blow uponblow,—he commenced such a furious strain19that the whole company leaped up from theirbenches and began dancing as if they weremad. 1 Heigh, heigh!’ shouted the people.‘There is a fiddle !’ and every one caperedand whirled through the wedding chamberas if they danced for a wager. The youngpeople led out the dance, and the old oneshobbled as fast after them as they could;and nobody stood idle but Siegelind—whow ished herself ten thousand miles away fromthe merriment—and Berthold, who gazedstodfastly and sorrowfully upon his beloved.In the midst of his fiddling, MasterAlmerich beckoned to the beautiful bride to■step near him.; £ There stands a little bottleyonder where your bridegroom lms beenseated, and some old cheese with it,—I daresay it will not be the worst in the house,—Iwould taste a little of it,—this playingmakes me a little nice in the palate.’The good natured bride brought the bottleand cheese, and placed them on a chair besidehim, knowing no reasonable objection to theold man’s taking as much as he could eat.i The dwarf quickly laid his fiddle aside,raised the be watched bottle in his right hand,and the cheese in Iris left, and exclaimedwith a loud voice, ‘ Well, my good people,well, here’s the health of that beautiful bridesthere and her sweetheart; may she live longand joyfully !’20‘ Long and joyfully!’ resounded throughthe room, while fifty bonnets and hats weretossed up into the air.But horror struck and deadly pale didHildebrand and Bernhard and Gertrudebecome when they saw the wondrous wineand enchanted cheese in Almerich’s upliftedfist. 4 Dares he—can he—will he!’ dartedthrough their hearts. But, woe and alas!in one turn of his hand, the glutton with hislarge ox-mouth, had swallowed the bewitch¬ed draught and marvellous cheese withoutleaving a morsel!A roar of passion from the red hairedHildebrand, and a gush of tears fromGertr ude, now terrified the people: whileold Bernhard stood like one petrified. Buta cheerful smile lightened upon the counte¬nance of Siegelind, and Berthold rose boldlyfrom his bench, and stood ready to use hislists upon Hildebrand if he should dare totouch the fiddler.4 You rogue ! you beg'gar!’ at last ex¬claimed Hildebrand. 4 Who told you togive that old fool of a fiddler that gift ofheaven ? You may now toss your houseand your bride too to the moon; I nolonger care a straw for you or all that be¬longs to you!’With words of venom and execration,Hildebrand rushed out of the room, whilstof21the enraged Bernhard and his crowdguests looked terrified after him. i I am anundone man ! at last exclaimed Bernhard.‘ My child and we are all ruined! Thewedding feast and the adornments are allunpaid! Oh cursed, horrid miser ! bringme a knife—a knife!’‘A fig for a knife!’ exclaimed the fiddler.1 See here is the bridegroom just come, whohas brought with him a whole wallet full ofgold,—and the bride loves him with all herheart, and the guests are all together—andmy fiddle is in glorious tune !’W ith these words Almerich crippled for¬ward to the half bewildered and yet joyfulBerthold, and drew him into the circle: hethen wiped the paint off his face with theskirts of his coat, and showed to the delightedbride and the astonished gue>ts their wellknown neighbour, who was dear and wel¬come to all. He then ordered the wallet tobe drag'ged forward, and having opened thelock, behold a prodigious quantity of purered gold tumbled out from it, dazzling theeyes of all with its splendour! Old Bernhardand Gertrude embraced Berthold with tearsof repentance, and Berthold by turns em¬braced the lovely Siegelind and the uglydwarf. Almerich took his fiddle and struckup a tune which bewitched them all, and theydanced till midnight in joy and glory. The22musician then escaped, and left a whole housefull of merry-makers around the two happylorers, who, till their last day, a thousand,times blessed the bitter wedding in which i;they had been so wonderfully united by the |benevolent lame dwarf.23HIPPSLEY’S DRUNKEN MAN.u'. n;.*gi6tI ofiT—; >;hr ^c>tUfli<:re Betty you jade! bring- me a pint ofhaif-and-half-^-be sure you mix them—&ndput them in separate jugs. Betty! hangthat girl-^she goes up stairs twenty timesa-day, and never comes down again. Con¬found the back of this chair, it is alwaysbehind. Well, I have given my wife theslip at last': Ah! she is quite a domesticChristian—she knocks oft’ the heels of hex-shoes on a saturday-night to prevent her go¬ing to chni’ch oh the Sunday.—She’s quite apious woman—whenever I conceal my money,I always put it in the bible. I am sure rnywife will never go there to lovik for it. Ihave the finest set of children a n»an wouldwish to stick a knife into. There’s my sonJames—he w ill be a counsel or a bislku, Iam cert ain} he is so wise:—His mother so uhim on an errand; turning the corner of astreet,- he met a lawyer full plump, which-knocked him down—the poor boy has neverspoke a word of truth ever since. There’smy daughter Peg*—she certainly will be aqueen one day or other—she’s so cute:—Theother day her mother was ironing- the clothes;the iron was red hot; she, like a wise childtook hold of it to help her mother—and whatdo you think ? she let it drop in a moment.24There’s ray daughter Sukey, she beyodoubt will bean empress someday I’m sure,she’s so wonderfully wise:—The Parson 01the parish sent a pair of black stockings to;be darned; and to show the child’s wisdom—she darned them with white worsted, andsent the Parson hopping to church like amagpie. [TaJm up a newspaper.'] Home news—Constantinople—One thousand sevenhundred—and fast asleep. This eveningthe Pope was brought tpdbed of a pair oftwins: what was wonderful, they were bootedand spurred, with whips in their hands. : iThis evening, an empty chaise passed this itown with a lawyer fist asleep in it. Thurs- ■day morning at three o’clock in the afternoon,a fire broke out in an empty house and quiteconsume^ the furniture. A poor man fellfrom * garret window into the street—very 'fortunately he had a flannel nightcap on,vhich saved his brains from being knocked Iout. Here Betty ! tell my wife to go to ajoiner and purchase a wooden grate—I knowshe is a sensible w oman and very careful—for I think, when the fire is in it, it will beall in a blaze. Here Betty, Betty!