VA Viezv of the horrid Cruelties exercised on many gthe unfortunate Persons taken Captive by thebloody Savage Indians of America*EVENTFUL LIFE,AND CURIOUS ADVENTURESOPJMcr SjBtlltawsou,WHO WAS CARRIED OFF FROM ABERDEENAnd Sold for a Slave.CONTAIKINGThe History of the Author’s X escape, also the cruel treat-surprising Adventures in North t ment he suffered while amongAmerica. X the Savages.His Captivity among the In- X Their customs, manners, dress,dians, and the manner of Ids ceremonies, &c. See. Sec.* At ' . - ' . iTO WHICH ARE ADDED,A PARTICULAR DESCRIPTIONOF TH»INDIAN TOMAHAWK.TOGETHER WITH THETRADITIONARY INDIAN STORY• - •; • - . - ' . io*'Alar rat on and Yaratilda.paisley:Printed for JAMES SCOTT, liooksdler, and Aycticnctr,BY J. NEIISON.IEXAMPLIFIED IN THE LIFE OFPETER WILLIAMSON.1. Was born in Hirnlay inthe parish of Aboyne, and coun¬ty of Aberdeen, North Bri¬tain ; if not of rich, yet of re¬putable parents, who support¬ed me in the best manner (heycould, as long as they had thehappiness of having me undertheir inspection but fatally forme, and to the. at grief, asit afterwards pr, I was sentto live with an aunt at Aber¬deen ; w hen under the yeats ofpupilarity, playing on the quay,with others of my companions,being of a stout robust consti¬tution, I was taken notice of bytwo fellows belonging to a ves¬sel in the harbour, employed(as the trade then was) bysome of the worthy merchantsof tire town, in that villanousand execrable practice calledKidnapping; that is, stealingyoung children from their pa¬rents, and selling them as slavesin the Plantations abroad. Be¬ing marked out by those mon¬sters of impiety as their prey,I was cajoled on board theship by them, where I was nosooner got, than they con¬ducted me between the decks,to some others they had kid¬napped in the same manner.At that time, I had no senseof the fate that was destined forme, and spent the time in child¬ish amusements with my fel¬low sufferers in the steerage,VI50The Life of Peter William sen.being never suffered to go up¬on dtek whilst the vessel layin the harbour; which was un¬til such a time as they had gotin their loading, with a comple¬ment of unhappy youths forcarrying on their wicked com¬merce.In about a Month's timethe ship fet-sail for America.When we arrived on the coastwe were destined for, a hardgale of wind sprung up fromthe S E, and, to the captain’sgreat surprise (he not thinkinghe was near land), altho’ havingbeen eleven weeks on the pas¬sage, about twelve o’clock atnight the ship struck upon asand bank, off Cape May, nearthe Capes of Delaware, and,to the great terror and af¬fright of the ship’s company,in a short time was almost fullof water. The boat was thenhoisted out, into which thecaptain, and his fellow villains,the crew, got with some diffi¬culty, leaving me, and my de¬luded companions to perish;as they then naturally conclud¬ed inevitable death to be ourfate. Often, in my distressesand miseries since, have I wish¬ed that such had been the con¬sequence, when in a state of in¬nocence! but Providence thoughtproper to reserve me for futuretrials of his goodness. Thusabandoned and daserted, with¬out the least prospect of relief,hut threatened every momentwith death, did these villainsleave us. The cries, theshrieks, and tears of a parcelof infants, had no effect on, orcaused tht- least remorse in thebreasts of these mercilesswretches. "The ship being ona sand bank, which did not giveway to let her deeper, we lay inthe same deplorable conditionuntil morning, when, thoughwo saw the land of CapeMay, at about a mile’s dis¬tance, we knew not what wouldbe our fate.The wind at length abated,and the captain (unwilling tolose all her cargo), about 10o’clock, sent some of his crewin a boat to the ship’s side tobring us on shore, where welay in a sort of a camp, madeof the sails of the vessel, andsuch other things as they couldget. The provisions lasted usuntil we were taken In by avessel hound for Philadelphia,lying on this island near threeweeks. Very little of the cargowas saved undamaged, and thevessel entirely lost.When arrived and landedat Philadelphia, the capital ofPensylvania, the captain hadsoon people enough who cameto buy us. He making themost of his villanous loading,after his disastw, sold us atabout 16l. pef -hd. What be¬came of my .^.appy compa¬nions I never knew ; but it wasmy lot to be sold to one of mycountrymen, whose name wasHugh Wilson, a North Briton,for the term of seven years,who had in his youth under¬gone the same fate as myself;having been kidnapped from.St. Johnston, in Scotland. Hap¬py was my lot in falling intoA.78The Life of Peler Williamson.n'.y countryman’s pr.wer, as hewas, contrary to many otilersof his calling, a humane,worthy, honest man. Havingno children of his own, andcommiserating my unhappy con¬dition, he took great care ofme until I was fit for busi¬ness ; and about die 12th year ofmy age, set me about little trifles;in which state I continued tillmy 14th year, when I wasmore fit for harder work.During such my idle state, see¬ing my fellow-servants oftenreading and writing, it incitedin me an inclination to learn,which I intimated to my Mas¬ter, telling him I should be veiywilling to serve a year longerthan the contract by which Iwas bound, if he would indulgeme in going to school; thislie readily agreed to, saying,that winter would be the besttime. It being then summer, Iwaited with impatience for theother season ; but to make someprogress in ray design, I gota Primer, and learned as muchfrom my fellow-servants as Icould. At school, where I wentevery winter for five years, Imade a tolerable proficiency, andhave ever since been improv¬ing myself at leisure hours. Withthis good master I continuedtill I was seventeen years old,when he died; and as a rewardfor my faithful service, left me2001. currency, which was thenabout 1201. Sterling, his besthorse, saddle, and all bis wear¬ing apparel.Being now my own master,having money in my pocket,and all other necessaries, Iemployed myself in jobbing a-bout the country, working forany body that would employme, for near seven years ; whenthinking I had money sufficientto follow some better way oflife, I resolved to settle; butthought one step necessarythereto was to be married; forwhich purpose, I applied to thedanghter of a substantial plan¬ter, and found my suit wasnot unacceptable to her or herfather, so that matters were soonconcluded upon, and we mar¬ried. My father-in-law, in or¬der to establish us in theworld, in an easy, if not af¬fluent manner, made me a deedof gift, of a tract of land, thatlay on the frontiers of the pro¬vince of Pensylvania, contain¬ing about 200 acres, 30 ofwhich were well cleared andfit for immediate use, whereouwas a good house and barn.Hie place pleasing me well,I settled on it, though it costnie the major part of my money,in buying stock, household fur¬niture, and implements for out¬door work; and happy as Iwas in a good wife, yet did myfelicity last me not long; forabout the year 1754, the In¬dians in the French interest,who had for a long time be¬fore ravaged and destroyed o-ther parts of America unmolest¬ed, I may very properly say, be¬gan to be very troublesome on thefrontiers of our province, wherethey generally appeared in smallsculking parties, with yelliiigs,shoutings, and anjic postures.9The Life of Peter Williamson. 19instead of trumpets and drums,committing great devastations.They suddenly break out intofurious, rapid outrages and de¬vastations, but soon retired pre¬cipitately, having no stores orprovisions but what they metwith in their incursions; someindeed carry a bag with bis¬cuit, or Indian corn therein,but not uulcss they have along march to their destinedplace of action.Terrible and shocking to hu-i man nature were the barbari-J ties daily committed by the. savages. Scarce did a dayj pass but some unhappy family; or other fell victims to Frenchi and savage cruelty. Terrible! indeed it proved to me, as well!as to many others. I thatwas now happy in an easystate of life, blessed with anaffectionate and tender wife,who was possessed of all amia¬ble qualities, to enable me togo through this world withthat peace and serenity of mind,which every Christian wishesto possess, became, on a sud¬den, one of tire most unhappyand deplorable of mankind;scarce can I sustain the shockwhich for ever recoils on me,i at thinking on the last time ofseeing that good woman. Thefatal 2d of October 1754, sheI that day went from home tovisit some of her relations;as I staid up later then usual,expecting her return, none be¬ing in the house besides myself,how great was my surprise, ter¬ror, and affright, when aboutII o’clock at night, I heardthe dismal war cry, or war-whoop of the savages. I flewto the chamber window, andperceived them to he twelve innumber. They making severalattempts to come in I askedthem what they wanted? Theygave me no answer, but conti¬nued beating, and trying to getthe door open. Judge thenthe condition I must be in,knowing the cruelty and mer¬ciless disposition of those sa¬vages, should I fall into theifhands. To escape which dread¬ful misfortune, having mygun loaded in my hand,I threatened them with instantdeath, if they should not de¬sist. But how vain and fruit¬less are the efforts of onernan against the united forceof so many 1 and of such merci¬less, undaunted, and blood¬thirsty monsters, as I had hereto deal with. One of themthat could speak a little En¬glish, threatened me in return,“ That if I did not come out,“ they would burn me alive in“ the housetelling me far¬ther what I unhappily perceiv¬ed, “ That they were no“ friends to the English, but“ if I would come out and sur-“ render myself prisoner, they“ would not kill me.” Myterror and distraction at hear¬ing this is not to be expressedby words, nor easily imaginedby any person, unless in thesame condition. Little couldI depend on the promises ofsuch creatures; and yet, if Idid not, inevitable death, by be¬ing burnt alive, must be my11The Life of Peter Williamson. 12lot. Distracted as I was in suchdeplorable circumstances, 1chose to rely on the uncertain¬ty of their fallacious promises,rather than meet with certaindeath by rejecting them; andaccordingly went out of myhouse with my gun in myhand. Immediately on my ap¬proach, they rushed on me likeso many tygers, and instantlydisarmed me. Having me thus■in their power, the mercilessvillains hound me to a treenear the door: they then wentinto the house, and plunder¬ed and destroyed every thingthere was in it, carrying oifwhat moveables they could;the rest, together with thehouse, which they set fire to,was consumed before my eyes.The barbarians, not satisfiedwith this, set fire to my barn,stable, and out-houses, where¬in were about 200 bushels ofwheat, six cows, four horses,five sheep, which underwentthe same fate, being all en¬tirely consumed to ashes. Dur¬ing the conflagration, to de¬scribe tire thoughts, the fearsand misery that I felt, is ut¬terly impossible.Having thus finished theexecrable business about whichthey came, one of the mon¬sters came to me with a Toma¬hawk in his hand, threaten¬ing me with the worst ofdeaths, if I would not willing¬ly go with them, and be con¬tented with their way of liv¬ing. This I seemingly agreedto, promising to do every tiringfor them that lay in my power;trusting to Provider.ee for thetime when I might be deliver¬ed out of their hands. Uponthis they untied me, and gaveme a great load to carry onmy back, under which I tra¬velled all that night with them,full of the most terrible appre¬hensions, and oppressed witiitire greatest anxiety of mind,lest my unhappy wife shouldlikewise have fallen a prey tothese cruel monsters. At day¬break, my infernal masters or¬dered me to lay down my lead,when, tying my hands again;round a tree with a small cord,they forced the blood out ofmy finger-ends. They thenkindled a fire near the treewhere to I was bound, whichfilled me with the most dread¬ful agonies, concluding I was-going to be made a sacrifice totheir barbarity.The fire being thus made,they for some time dancedround me after their manner,:with various odd motions andantic gestures, whooping, hol-looing, and crying in a fright¬ful manner, as it is their cus¬tom. Having satisfied them¬selves in this sort of theirmirth, they proceeded in amore tragical manner; takingthe burning coals and sticks,flaming with fire at the ends,holding them near my face,head, hands, and feet, witha deal of monstrous plea¬sure and satisfaction; and, atthe same time, threatening toburn me entirely, if I madethd least noise, or cried out.Thus tortured as I was, almost1413 The Life of Peter Williamson.to death, I suffered their brut¬al pleasure without being al¬lowed to vent my inexpressibleanguish, otherwise than by shed¬ding silent tears, even which,when these inhuman tonnentorsobserved, with a shocking plea¬sure and alacrity, they wouldtake fresh coals, and appliednear my eyes, telling me myface was wet, and that theywould dry it for me, whichlindeed they cruelly did. Howu I underwent these tortures It' rave here faintly described, hasiji treen matter of wonder to meft many times; but God ena-jled me to wait with more thanrommon patience for a deliver-mcc I daily prayed for.Having at length satisfiedl! their brutal pleasures, they! ,at down round the fire, androasted their meat, of whichWhey had robbed my dwelling.iVhen they had prepared it,nd satisfied their voracious•ppetites, they offered' some toie; though it is easily ima-itined I had but little appetiteo eat, after the tortures andiseries I had undergone,pet was I forced to seem pleas-d with what they offerede, lest by refusing it, theyad again resumed their hel-ish practices. What I couldot eat, I contrived to get be-een the bark and the tree,here I was fixed, they havingnbound my hands till theyimagined I had ate all they gavee ; but then they again bounde as before ; in which de¬plorable condition was I forcedto continue all that day. Whenthe sun was set, they put outthe fire, and covered the asheswith leaves, as is their usualcustom, that the white peoplomight not discover any tracesor signs of their having beenthere.Going from thence alongby the river Susquehanna forthe space of six mil®, loadedas I was before, we arrived ata spot near the ApallachianMountains, or Blue Hills, wherethey bid their plunder underlogs of wood.—And, oh, shock¬ing to relate ! from thence didthese hellish monsters proceedto a neighbouring house, oc¬cupied by one Jacob Snider,,and his unhappy family, con¬sisting of his wife, five child¬ren, and a young man his ser¬vant. They soon got admit¬tance into the unfortunate man’shouse, where they immediately,without the least remorse, andwith more than brutal cruelty,scalped* the tender parents and* SCALP IXCr is taking offthe skin from the top of thehead; which they perform witha long knife that they hanground their neck, and alwayscarry with them. They cut theskin round as much if the head,as they think proper, sometimesquite round from the neck andforehead, then take it in theirfingers, and pluck it off, andoften leave the unhappy crea¬tures, so served, to die in a mostmiserable manner. Some, whoare not cut too deep in the tan-15The Life of Peler Williamson. 188the unhappy children : nor could Blue Hills, where they stowedflthe tears, the shrieks, or cries their goods as before. My fel-Bof these unhappy victims pre- low-suiTerer could not long bear!vent their horrid massacre : for the cruel treatment which we uhaving thus scalped them, were both obliged to suffer,!and plundered the house of e- and complaining bitterly tojvery thing that was moveable, me of his being unable to pro-3they set fire to the same, where ceed any further, I endeavour-!the poor creatures met their ed to condole him as much as]final doom amidst the flames, lay in my power, to bear up'lthe hellish miscreants standing under his afflictions, and wait!at the door, or as near the with patience, till, by the Vi-mhouse as the flames would per- vine assistance, we should belmit them, rejoicing, and echo- delivered out of their clutches;jing back in their diabolical but all in vain, for he still!manner, the piercing cries, heart- continued his moans and tears,.?rending groans, and paternal which one of the savages per-iand affectionate soothings, which ceiving as he travelled on, in-3issued from this most horrid stantly came up to us, and*sacrifice of an innocent family, with his tomahawk, gave him!Not contented with what these a blow on the head, which fel-infernals had already done, they led the unhappy youth to the®still continued their inordinate ground, where they immediate-#viilany in making a general ly scalped and left him. The]conflagration of the barn, sta- suddenness of tliis murder shock*hies, together with all the corn, ed me to that degree that Ihorses, cows, and every tiling was in a manner like a statue*on the place. Thinking the being quite motionless, expect*young man belonging to this ing my fate would soon be the*!unhappy family would be of same; however, recovering my tjsome service to them, in car- distracted thoughts, 1 dissent*rying part of their hellish ac- bled the uneasiness and an—1quired plunder, they spared guish which I felt as well ashis life, and loaded him and I could from the barbarian™myself with what they had here but still, such was the terrorsgot, and again marched to the that I was under, that for sometime I scarce knew the days 1  of the week, or what I didjso that at this period, liftpies or scull, live in horrid tor- indeed became a burden tdjments many hours, sometimes me.a day or two after. The scalps, The horrid fact being com¬er skins taken off, they preserve pleted, they kept on their courseand carry home in triumph, near the mountains, wherewhere they receive a consider- they lay sculking four or fiveable sum fur every one. days, rejoicing at the plundeflThe Life of Peter Williamson.18md store they had got. Whenrevisions became scarce, theylade their way towards Sus-huehauna; where, still to add(o the many barbarities theylad committed, passing nearmother house, inhabited by annhappy old man, whose namevas John Adams, with hisvile and four small children;md meeting with no resis-ince, they immediately scalpedthe unhappy wife and her fourchildren, before the good old[nan’s eyes. Inhuman andjiorrid as this was, it did notitiate them; for when theyhad murdered the poor woman,hey acted with her in suchbrutal manner, as decencyIvill not permit me to mention :|nd this even before the un-lappy husband, who, not being>le to avoid the sight, andicapable of affording her the■ast relief, intreated them toput an end to his miserableife: but they were as deaf and>gardless to the tears, prayers,jnd entreaties of this vener¬able sufferer, as they had beenthose of the others, and pro-leeded in their hellish purposeif burning and destroying hislouse, barn, corn, hay, cattle,nd every tiring the poor manfew hours before was master|f. Having saved what theymught proper from the flames,ley gave the old man, feeble,i'eak, and in the miserableondition he then was, as wells myself, burdens to carry,nd loading themselves like-dse with bread and meat,pursued their journey on to¬wards the Great Swamp ; where,,being arrived, they lay on foreight or nine days, sometimesdiverting themselves in exercis¬ing the most atrocious andbarbarous cruelties on their un¬happy victim, the old man :sometimes they would strip himnaked, and paint him all overwith various sorts of colours,which they extracted or madefrom herbs and roots; at o-ther times they would pluckthe white hair:; from his vener¬able head, and tauntingly tellhim, he was a fool for livingso long, and that they wouldshew him kindness by puttinghim out of the world; to allwhich the poor creature couldbut vent his sighs, his tears, hismoans, and entreaties, that tomy affrighted imagination, wereenough to penetrate a heart ofadamant, and soften the mostobdurate savage. In vain, alas !were all his tears, for daily didthey tire themselves with thevarious means they tried to tor¬ment him; sometimes tyinghim to a tree, and whippinghim; at other times scorchinghis furrowed cheeks with red-hot coals, aud burning his legs,quite to the knees: but thegood old man, instead of repin¬ing, or wickedly arraigning thedivine justice, like many o-thers in such cases, even in thegreatest agonies, incessantly of¬fered up his prayers to theAlmighty, with the most fer¬vent thanksgiving for his for¬mer mercies, and hoping theflames then surrounding andburning his aged limbs, would1927i<? Life of Peter Williamson. 20soon send him to the'blissful then cut in pieces, and givenmansions of the just, to be apartaker of blessings there.And during such his piousejaculations, his infernal plaguerswould come round him, mi¬micking his heart-rending groans,and piteous wailings. One night,after he had been thus tor¬mented, whilst he and I weresitting together condoling eachother at the misfortunes andmiseries we daily suffered, twen¬ty scalps and three prisonerswere brought in by anotherparty of Indians. These pri¬soners gave us some shock¬ing accounts of the murders anddevastations committed in theirparts. This party, who nowjoined us, had it not, I found,in their power to begin theirwi( kedness as soon as those w hovisited my habitation; the firstof their tragedies being on theiJ5th day of October 1765,when John Lewis, with hiswife, and three small children,fell sacrifices to their cruelty,and were miserably scalped andmurdered ; his house, barn, andevery thing he possessed, beingburnt and destroyed. On the28th, Jacob Miller, with hiswife and six of his family, to¬gether with every tiling on hisplantation, underwent the samefate. The 50th, the house,mill, barn, twenty head of cat¬tle, two teams of horses, andevery thing belonging to the un¬happy George Folke, met withthe like treatment; himself,wife, and all his miserable fa¬mily, consisting of nine in num¬ber, being iuuuinanly scalded,to the swine, which devouredthem. I shall give anotherinstance of the numberless andunheard-of barbarities they re¬lated of these savages, and pro¬ceed to their own tragical end.In short, one of the substan¬tial traders belonging to theprovince, having business thatcalled him some miles up thecountry, fell into the hands ofthese devils, who not only yscalped him, but immediately iroasted him before he was }dead: then, like cannibals for *want of other food ate his |whole body, and of his headmade what they called an In¬dian pudding.The three prisoners that werebrought with these additionalforces, constantly repining attheir lot, and almost dead withtheir excessive hard treatment,contrived at last to make their ;escape; but being far fromtheir own settlements, and notknowing the country, were soon ;after met by some others of thetribes or nations at war with Jus, and brought back to theirdiabolical masters, who greatlyrejoiced at having them againin their infernal power. Thepoor creatures almost famishedfor want of sustenance, havinghad none during the time "oftheir elopement, were no soon¬er in the clutches of the bar¬barians, than two of them weretied to a tree, and a great firemade round them,^where theyremained till they were terri¬bly scorched and burnt; whenone of the viibiae, with his2122The Life of Peter Williamson.scalping knife, ript open theirbellies, took out their entrails,and burnt them before theireyes, whilst the others werecutting, piercing, and tearingthe flesh from their breasts,hands, arms, and legs, withTed hot irons, till they weredead. The third unhappy vic¬tim was reserved a few hourslonger, to be, if possible, sacri¬ficed in a more cruel manner ;his arms were tied close to hisbody, and a hole being dugdeep enough for him to standupright, he was put therein,and earth rammed and beat inall round his body up to hisneck, so that his head onlyappeared above ground; theythen scalped him, and there lethim remain for three or fourhours in the greatest agonies;after which they made a smallfire near his head, causinghim to suffer the most excru¬ciating torments imaginable,dhilst the poor creature couldonly cry for mercy in killinghim immediately, for bis brainswere boiling in his head: in¬exorable to all his plaints, theycontinued the fire, whilst, shock¬ing to behold ! his eyes gush¬ed out of their sockets; andsuch agonizing torments did theunhappy creature suffer for twohours, till he was ijuite dead!They then cut off his head,and buried it with the otherbodies; my task being to digthe graves, which, feeble andterrified as I was, the dread ofsuffering the same fate, ena¬bled me to do.A great snow bow falling,the barbarians were a littlefearful, lest the white peopleshould, by their traces, find outtheir sculking retreats, whichobliged them to make the bestof their way to their winterquarters, about 200 miles far¬ther from any plantations, orinhabitants; where, after a longand tedious journey, being al¬most starved, I arrived withthis infernal crew. The placewhere we were to rest, intheir tongue, is called Ala-mitigo.—There we found anumber of wigwams* full oftheir women and children.Dancing, singing, and shoot¬ing, were there general amuse¬ments ; and in all their fes¬tivals and dances they relatewhat successes they have had,and what damages they havesustained in their expeditions;in which I became part of theirtheme. The severity of the coldincreasing, they stript me ofmy cloaths for their own use,and gave me such as theyusually wore themselves, beinga piece of blanket, a pair ofmogganes, or shoes, with a yardof coarse cloth, to put roundme instead of breeches. To* WtGWAMS are the namesthey give their houses, which areno more than little huts, madewith three or four forked stakesdrove into the ground, andcovered wit h deer or other skins;or, for want of them, with largoleaves and earth.23The Life of Peter Williamson.describe their dress and manner*<f living may not be altogetherunacceptable to some of toyreaders; but as the size of thisbook will not permit me tobe so particular as I mightotherwise be, I shall just ob¬serve ;They in general wear awhite blanket, which, in wartime, they paint with varioustigures; but particularly theleaves of trees, in order to de¬ceive their enemies when in thewoods. Their mogganes aremade of deer-skins, and thebest sort have them boundround the edges with littlebeads and ribbands. On theirlegs they wear pieces of bluecloth for stockings, somethinglike our soldiers spatter dashes ;they reach higher than theirknees, but not lower than theirancles ; they esteem them easyto run in. Breeches they rie-ver wear, but instead thereoftwo pieces of linen, one beforeand another behind. The bet¬ter sort have shirts of the finestlinen they can get, and to thesesome wear ruifles; but thesethey never put on till they havepainted them of various colours,which they get from the Peconeroot, and bark of trees, andnever pull them off to wash,but wear them till they fallto pieces. They are very proud,and take great delight in wear¬ing trinkets; such as silverplates round their wrists andnecks with several strings ofwampum (which is made ofcotton, interwoven with peb¬bles, cockle-shells &c.) down totheir breasts; and from theirears and noses they have ringsanti beads which hang dan¬gling an inch or two. The menhave no beards, to prevent which,they use certain instrumcatsand tricks as soon as it beginsto grow. The hair of theirheads is managed differently,some pluck out and destroy all,except a lock hanging fromthe crown of the head, whichthey interweave with wampumand feathers of various colours.The women wear it very long,twisted down their backs withbeads feathers and wampum;and on their heads most of themwear little coronets of brass orcopper ; round their middle theyw-ear a blanket instead of a pet¬ticoat. The females are verychaste, and constant to theirhusbands; and if any youngmaiden should happen to have achild before marriage, she isnever esteemed afterwards. Asfor their food they get it chief¬ly by hunting and shooting,and boil, broil, or roast all the Smeat they eat. Their standingdish consists of Indian cornsoaked, then bruised and boil¬ed over a gentle fire, for tenor twelve hours. 'Their breadis likewise made of wild oats,or sun-flower seeds. Set meals .they never regard, but catwhen they are hungry. Theirgun, tomahawk, scalping knife,powder and shot, are all theyhave to carry with them in tun*of war; bows and arrows be¬ing seldom used by them. Theygenerally in war decline openengagements; bush-fighting or'f'. • . ' - - *25 The Life of Peier Willi amson. 24Uifculking is their discipline;ijind they are brave when eu-»{raged, having great fortitude9 in enduring tortures and death.uVo people have a greater lovei j|>f liberty, or affection to theirMelations ; but they are the mostii Implacable vindictive people up-1 >n the earth, for they revengehe death of any relation, or; ny great affront, whenever oc-3 asior. presents, let the distancet if time or place be never so> emote. To all which I maydd, and what the reader hasmil ready observed, that they areeinhumanly cruel. But, someiitther nations might be morejt appy, if, in some instances,y hey copied them, and madetj tise conduct, courage, and per¬sonal strength, the chief recom-itnendations for war captains..1 in times of peace they visit theti| Jantations inhabited by theI'hites, to whom they sell bas-ets, ladles, spoons, and otheruch trifles which they are veryXpert in making. When nightmes, if admitted into anyouse, they beg leave to liewn by the fire-side, chusing,t place rather than any o-er, which is seldom refused[hem, if sober, for then theyre honest; but if drunk, areery dangerous and trouble-ome, if people enough are notthe house to quell them,or would they at any timenjl >e guilty of such barbarous de-redations as they are, did nothose calling themselves Chris-ians, entice them thereto withtrong liquors, which they areattly fend of; as well as bythe pecuniary rewards whichthey give for the scalps. Ifambition cannot be gratified,or superiority obtained, other¬wise than by the death of thou¬sands would it not, in thosewho seek such airy phantomsand are so inordinately fondof their fellow-creatnres livessavour a little more of humani¬ty to have them killed instant¬ly, and if they must have proofsof murder, scalped afterwards,than by allowing and encou¬raging such merciless treatment,render themselves as obnoxious,cruel, and barbarious, to a hu¬mane mind, as the very savagesthemselves ? — However, theysometimes suffer by their plots,laid for the destruction of o-thers; it often happening thatthe traders or emissaries sent toallure them to the execution oftheir schemes, rightly fall vic¬tims themselves; for, as theyalways carry with them horse¬loads of rum, which the Indi¬ans are fond of, they soon getdrunk, quarrelsome, and wick¬ed, and, in their fury, often killand destroy their tempters : ajust reward for their wicked de¬signs ! nay it had such an effecton them, that when so intoxi¬cated, they even burn and con¬sume all their ewn effects, beat¬ing, wounding, and sometimeskilling their wives and chil¬dren : but, in disputes amongthemselves, when sober, they arevery tenacious of decorum, ne¬ver allow ing more than one t»speak at a time. Profane swear¬ing they know not in their ownlanguage how to express, but7he I.ife of Peter TViHiamson. 28are very fond of the French andEnglish oaths.The old people, who are byage and infirmities renderedincapable of being serviceable tothe community, they put out ofthe world in a barbarous andextraordinary manner; an in¬stance of which 1 had, whilst a-mong them, an opportunity ofseeing practised on an old In¬dian. He being, through age,feeble and weak, and his eyesfailing him, so that he was un¬able to get his living either byhunting or shooting, was sum¬moned to appesr before theleading ones, who were to behis judges; before whom be¬ing come, and having nothingto say for himself, (as how in¬deed could he prove himself tobe young?) they very formal¬ly, and with a seeming degreeof compassion, passed sentenceon him to be put to death. Thiswas soon after executed on hhnin the following manner: hewas tied naked to a tree, anda hoy who was to be his exe¬cutioner, stood ready with atomahawk in bis hands, to beathis brains out; but when theyoung monster came to inflictthe sentence, he was so shortof stature, that he could notlift the tomahawk high enough ;upon which he was held up 'bysome others, a great concoursebeing present; and then, thoughthe young devil laid on withalibis strength, he was not forsome time able to fracture theold man’s skull, so that it wasnear an hour before he wasdead—Thus are they in theiryouth inured to barbarity !When they found no remainsof life in him, they put him in¬to a hole dug in the ground forthat purpose, in which he stoodupright. Into his left hand theyput an old gun, and hung asmall powder-horn and shot-bag about his shoulders, and astring of wampum round hisneck; and into his right hand alittle silk purse, with a bit ofmoney in it; then filled the ^hole round, and covered himover with earth. Tills I foundto be their usual manner oftreating the old of both sexes;only that the women are kil¬led by young girls, and put in¬to tbe ground with nothing buta ladle in one hand, and a wood¬en dish in the other.They are very strict in pu¬nishing offenders, especially suchas commit crimes against anyof the royal families. Theynever hang any ; but those sen¬tenced to death are generallybound to a stake, ami a greatfire made round them, hut notso near as to burn them im¬mediately ; for they sometimesremain roasting in the middleof the flames for tw o or threedays before they are dead.At Alamingo was I kept neartW’O months, until the snowwas off the ground. A longtime to he amongst such crea¬tures, naked as I almost was!Whatever thoughts I might haveof making my escape, to carrythem into execution was im¬practicable, being so far fromany plantations or white peopFand the severe weather ren#dering my limbs in a manmquite stiff and motionless; how ^ ira a.iL jjg s » ^ 5 s s &29SOThe Life of Peter Williamson.ever, I contrived to defend my¬self against the inclemency ofthe weather as well as I could,by making myself a little wig¬wam, with the bark of the trees,covering the same with earth,which made it resemble a cave;and to prevent the ill effectsof the cold which penetrated in¬to it, I was forced to keep agood fire always near the door.Thus did I for near two monthsendnre such hardships of coldand hunger, as had hithertobeen unknown to me. My li¬berty of going about was, in¬deed, more than I could haveexpected, but they well knewthe impracticability of my elop¬ing from them. Seeing me out¬wardly easy and submissive,they would sometimes give mea little meat, but my chief foodwas Indian corn, dressed as Ihave above described. Not¬withstanding such their civi¬lity, the time passed so tedious¬ly on, that I almost began todespair of ever regaining myliberty, or seeing my few re¬lations again ; which, with theanxiety and pain I suffered onaccount of my dear wife, oftengave me inexpressible concern.At length the time arrived,when they were preparing them¬selves for another expedition a-gainst the planters and whitepeople ; but before they set outthey were joined by many otherIndians from Fort Du Quesne,well stored with powder andball they had received from theFrench.. As soon as the snow was quitegone, and no traces of their vilefootsteps could be perceived,they set forth on their journeytowards the back parts of theprovince of Pennsylvania, leav¬ing their wives and childrenbehind in their wigwams. Theywere now a terrible and for¬midable body, amounting tonear 150. My duty was t -carry what they thought pro¬per to load me with, but theynever entrusted me with a gun.We marched on several day-without any thing particular oc¬curring, almost famished forwant of provisions ; for my partI had nothing but a few stalksof Indian corn, which I wasglad to eat dry; nor did theIndians themselves fare muchbetter, for as we drew near theplantations, they were afraid tokill any game, lest the noise oftheir guns should alarm the in¬habitants.When we again arrived atthe Blue Hills before-mention¬ed, we encamped for three days,though God knows we- had nei¬ther tents, nor any thing elseto defend as from the inclemen¬cy of the air, having nothingto lie on by night but the grass.Their usual method of lodging,pitching or encamping by night,being in parcels of ten or twelvemen to a fire, where they lieupon the grass or bushes, wraptup in a blanket, with their feetto the fire.During our stay here, a sortof council of war was held,when it was agreed to dividethemselves into companies ofabout twenty men each ; afterwhich, every captain marchdBB31The Life of Peter Hillia-.nson.32 Iwith his party where he thoughtproper. I still belonged to myold masters, but was left behindon the mountains with ten In¬dians, to stay until the restshould return.Here being left I began tomeditate on my escape; andthough I knew the countryround extremely well, havingbeen often thereabouts w i;h mycompanions hunting deer, andother beasts, yet was I verycautious of giving the least su¬spicion of such my intention.However, the third day afterthe grand body left-us, my com¬panions or keepers thought pro¬per to visit the mountains insearch of game for their sub¬sistence, leaving me bound insuch a manner that I couldnot escape: at night, w hen theyreturned, having unbound me,we all sat down together tosupper on two pole-cats, beingwhat they had killed, and soonafter (being greatly fatiguedwith their day’s excursion) theycomposed themselves to rest asusual. Observing them to bein that somniferous state, Itried various ways to see whetherit was a scheme to prove my in¬tentions or not; but after mak¬ing a noise, and walking about,sometimes touching them withmy feet, I found there wa» dofallacy.My heart then exulted withjoy at seeing a time come thatI might in all probability bedelivered from my captivity, butthis joy was soon damped bythe dread of being discovered bythem, or taken by any stragglingparties. To prevent which, Iresolved, if possible, to get oneof their guns, and, if discovered,to die in my defence rather thanbe taken; for that purpose, Imade various efibrts to get onefrom under their heads (wherethey always secured them), butin vain. Frustrated in this myfirst essay towards regaining myliberty, I dreaded the thoughtsof carrying my design intoexecution : yet after a little con¬sideration, and trusting myselfto the divine protection, I setforwards naked and defencelessas 1 was. A rash and danger¬ous enterprise; such was myterror, however, that in goingfrom them 1 halted and pausedevery four and five yards, look¬ing fearfully towards the spotwhere I had left them, lest theyshould awake and miss me;but when I was about twohundred yards from them,I mended my pace, and madeas much haste as I could to thefoot of the mountains; whenon a sudden I was struck withthe greatest terror and amazeat hearing the wood-cry, as itis called, and may be expres¬sed jit hau! jo kau ! whichthe savages I had left weremaking, accompanied with themost hideous cries and bowl¬ings they could utter.The more ray terror increas- ,!ed the faster did I push on,and scarce knowing where 1trode, drove through the woodswith the utmost precipitation,sometimes falling and bruising -myself, cutting my feet and legs ;against the stones in a miserable’,!33The Life of Peter Williamson. 3i'manner ; Imt, though faint andmaimed, I continued my flightuntil break of day, when, with¬out having-any thing to sustainnature but a little corn left, Icrept into a hollow tree, inwhich I lay very snug, and re¬turned my piayers and thanksto the Divine Being, that hadthus far favoured my escape.But my repose was in a fewhours ueslroyed at hearing thevoices of the savages near theplate where I was. hid, threat¬ening and talking how theywould use me, if they got meS again, that I was before toosensible of, to have the least resteither in body or mind sinceI had left them. However,they at last left the spot whereI heard them, and 1 remained11 that day without further mo¬lestation, At night I ventur¬ed forwards again, frightenedi and trembling at every bosh Ipast, thinking each twig thatI touched me to be a savage. Thethird day I concealed myself inhe like manner, and at night|I travelled on in the same de-lorable condition, keeping offhe main road used by the In-ians as mueh as possible, whichnade my journey many milesonger, and more painful and•ksome than I can express,ut how shall 1 describe the'ear, terror, and shock, that I:lt on the fourth night, when,iy tlie rustling 1 made amonghe leaves, a party of Indians,hat lay round a small fire,vhich I did not pereeive, start-d fiom the ground and seizinglieir arms, run from the fireamongst the woods. Whetherto move forwards, or to restwhere I vir.-:. I knew not sodistracted was my imagination.In this melancholy state, re¬volving in my thoughts the nowinevitable fate I thought waited’on. me, to my great consterna¬tion and joy', I was relieved bya parcel of swine, that madetowards the place I guessed thesavages to be; w ho, on seeingthe hogs, conjectured that theiralarm had been occasioned bythem, and very merrily returnedto the lire, and lay down tosleep as before. As soon as Iperceived my enemies so dis¬posed of, with more cautiousstep and silent tread, I pursu¬ed my course, sweating (thoughwinter, and severely cold) withthe fear I had just been reliev¬ed from ; bruised, cut, mangled?-and terrified as I was, I still,through the divine assistance,was enabled to pursue my jour¬ney until break of day, whenthinking myself far off from anyof those miscreants I so muchdreaded, I lay down under agreat log, and slept undisturbeduntil about noon, when gettingup, I reached the summit of agreat hill with some difficulty,and looking out if I could spyany habitations of white peo¬ple, to my unutterable joy I sawsome, which I guessed to beabout ten miles distance.This pleasure was in somemeasure abated, by iny not be¬ing able to get among them that,night j therefore, when eveningapproached, I again recommend¬ed myself to the Almighty, and363,'j The Life oj Pder Williamson.imposed my weary mangledlimbs to rest. In the morning,as soon as I awoke, I continu¬ed my journey towards the near¬est cleared lands I had seen theday before, and about four o’clorkin the afternoon arrived at thehouse of John Bell, an ac¬quaintance, where, knocking attiie door, his wife, who openedi‘, seeing me in such a frightfulcondition, flew from me likei’ghtning, screaming into thehouse. This alarmed the wholefamily, who immediately fledto their arms, and I was soonageosted by the master with hisgun in his hand. But on myassuring him of my innocenceas to any wicked intentions, andmaking myself known (for hebefore took me to be an Indian),lie immediately caressed me,as did also his family, with adeal of friendship, at finding mealive ; they having all been in¬formed of my being murderedby the savages some monthsbefore. No longer now ableto support my fatigued andworn out spirits, I fainted andfell to the ground. From whichstate having recovered me, andperceiving the weak and famish¬ed condition I then was in,they soon gave me some refresh¬ment, but let me partake of itvery sparingly, fearing the illeffects too much at once wouldhave on me. They for two orthree nights very affectionate¬ly attended mo, until my spiritsand limbs were pretty well re¬cruited, and I thought myselfable to ride, when I borrowedof these good people (whosekindness merits my most grate¬ful return) a horse and someclothes, and set forward for myfather-in-law's in Chester coun¬ty, about a 140 miles fromthence, where I arrived on the4th day of January, 1755 ; butscarce one of tire family couldcredit their eyes, believing, withthe people I had lately left, thatI had fallen a prey to the Indi¬ans.Great was the joy and satisfac* dtion wherewith I was receivedand embraced by the whole fa¬mily : but, oh! what was myanguish and trouble, when oninquiring for my dear wife, Ifound she had been dead neartwo months ! This fatal news, jas every humane reader mustimagine, greatly lessened the f|joy and rapture I otherwiseshould have felt at my deliver¬ance from the dreadful state |and captivity I had been in.The news of my happy arriv¬al at my father-in-law’s house, iafter so long and strange anabsence, was soon spread round „the neighbour plantations, by 'the country people, who con¬tinually visited me, being very 1desirous of hearing and ea- 'igerly inquiring an account ofmy treatment and manner of iliving among tire Indians; inall which I satisfied them. Soonafter this my arrival, I was sentfor by his excellency Mr. Mor¬ris, the governor, a worthy gen- |tleman, who examined me veryparticularly as to all accidentsrelaiing to my captivity, andespecially in regard to the In¬dians, who had first taken me a-37The I.i/e of Peter Williamson.nay, whether they were Frenchor English parties. I assuredhis excellency they were of thosewho professed themselves to hethe friends of the former; andinformed him of the many bar¬barous and inhuman actions Ihad been witness to amongthem, on the frontiers of theprovince; and also that theywere daily increasing, by othersof our pretended friends join¬ing them; that they were allwell supplied by the Frenchwith arms and ammunition, andgreatly encouraged by them intheir continual excursions andbarbarities, not only in havingextraordinary premiums for suchscalps as they should take andcany home with them at theirreturn, but great presents ofall kinds, besides rum, powder,kali, &c. before they sallied forth.Having satisfied his excellencyin such particulars as he re¬quested, the same being put in¬to writing, I swore to the con¬tents thereof, as may be seenby those who doubt of my vera¬city, in thk public papers of thattime, as well in England as inPhiladelphia. Having donewith me, IVlr. Morris gave methree pounds, ai d sent the af¬fidavit to the assembly, whowere then sitting in the state-house at Philadelphia, conclud¬ing on proper measures to checkthe depredations of the savages,and put a stop to the barbaroushostilities on the distressed in¬habitants, who daily sufTereddeath in a deplorable condition ;besides being obliged to abscondtheir plantations, and the coun-38try being left desolate for severalhundred miles on the frontiers.Joseph Long, Esq; a gentle¬man of a large fortune, whohad in his time been a greatw arrior among • the Indians,and frequently joined in expe¬dition with those in our interest,against the others. His manyexploits, and great influence a-rnong several of the nations,w'ere too well known to passunrevenged by the savages a-gainst whom he had exertedhis abilities. Accordingly, inApril 1756, a body of themcame clown on his plantation,about 50 miles from Poston,and skulking in the woods forsome time, at last sieved an op¬portunity to attack his house,in which, unhappily provingsuccessful, they scalped, mangled,and cut to pieces the unfortu¬nate gentleman, his wife, andnine servants : and then made ageneral conflagration of thehouses, barns, cattle, and everything he possessed, which, withthe mangled bodies were nilconsumed in one blaze. Buthis more unfortunate soft anddaughter were niado prisoners,and carried Off by them, to Ik:reserved for greater tortures.Alarmed and terrified at thisinhuman butchery, the neigh¬bourhood, as well as the peo¬ple of Boston, quickly assem¬bled themselves, to think ofproper measures to be revengedon these execrable monsters. A-mong the first of those whooffered themselves to go againstthe savages, was James Craw¬ford, Esq; who was then at Bos-B 33940The L>Je nf Peter Williamson.ton, and heard of this tragedy ;he was a young gentleman whohad for some years paid hisaddresses to Miss Long, andwas in a very little time tohave been married to her. Dis¬tracted, raving, and shockedas he was, he lost no time, butinstantly raised 100 resolute andbold young fellows, to go inquest of the villains. As I hadbeen so long among them, andwas pretty well acquainted withtheir manners and customs,and particularly their skulkingplaces in the woods, I was re¬commended to him as one pro¬per for his expedition.Being quickly armed and pro¬vided, we hastened forw ard forMr. Long’s plantation on the29th, and after travelling themost remote and intricate paths,through the woods, arrived therethe second of May, dubious ofour success, and almost de¬spairing of meeting with thesavages, as we had heard norcould discover nothing of themin our march. In the after¬noon some of our men beingsent to the top of a hill tolook out for them, soon per¬ceived a great smoke in a partof the low grounds. This woimmediately, and rightly con¬jectured, to proceed from a firemade by them, We according¬ly put ourselves into regular or¬der, and marched forwards, re¬solving, let their number havebeen what it might, to givebattle.Arriving within a mile ofihe place, Captain Crawford,vhose anxiety and pain madehim quicker sighted than anyof the rest, soon perceived them,and guessed their number to beabout 50. Upon this we halt¬ed, and secreted ourselves asWell as we could, till 12 o’clockat night. At which time, sup¬posing them to be at rest, wedivided our men into two divi¬sions, 50 in each, and marchedon ; when coining within twen¬ty yards of them, the captainfired his gun, which was im¬mediately followed by both di¬visions in succession, who in¬stantly rushing on them withbayonets fixed, killed every manof them.Great as our joy was, andflushed with success as we wereat this sudden victory, no heartamong us but was ready to burstat the sight of the unhappyyoung lady. What must thethoughts, torments and sensa¬tions of our brave captain then,he, if wen we, who knew hernot, were so sensibly a'fected!For, oh! what breast, thoughof the brutal savage race wehad just destroyed, could, with¬out feeling the most exquisitegrief and pain, behold in suchinfernal power, a lady in thebloom of youth, blest with everyfemale accomplishment thatcould set off’ the most exquisitebeauty ! Beauty, which render¬ed her the envy of her own sex,and the delight of ours, endur¬ing the severity of a windyrainy night! Behold one nur¬tured in the most tender man¬ner, and by the most indulgentparents, quite naked, and in theopen woods, encircling with her41The Life Peter WiUknneM.alabaster araas and hands, a coldrough tree whereto she wasbound with cords so straitlypulled, that the blood trickledfrom her finger ends! Herlovely tender body, and delicatelimbs, cut, bruised, and tornwith stones, and boughs of trees,as she had been dragged along,and all besmeared with blood !What heart can even now, un¬moved, think of her distress,in such a deplorable condition ;having no creature, with the^ least sensations of humanity,near to succour or relieve her,or even pity Or regard her flow¬ing tears, and lamentable wail¬ings !The very remembrance ofthe sight lias, at this instant,such an effect upon me, that Ialmost want words to go on.—Sucli then was the condition inwhich we found this wretchedfair, but faint and speechlessw ith the shock our firing hadgiven her tender frame. Thecaptain for a long time could donething but gaze upon andclasp her to his bosom, crying,raving, and tearing his hair, likeone bereft of his senses; nordid he for some time perceivethe lifeless condition she was in,until one of the men had unti¬ed her lovely mangled arms, andshe fell to the ground. Find¬ing among the plunder ofthese villains the unhappy lady’sclothes, he gently put someof them about her; and aftervarious trials, and much timespent, recovered her dissipatedspirits, the repossession of whichshe first manifested, by eagerlyfixing her eyes on her deliverer,and smiling with the most com¬plaisant joy, blessed the Al¬mighty, and him, for her mira¬culous deliverance.The work being done, wethought of steering homew ards,but how to get the lady for¬wards, who was in such a con¬dition as rendered her incapableof walking further, gave us somepain and retarded us a little,until we made a. sort of carriageto seat her on ; and then, with thegreatest readiness wc took ourturns, four at a time, and carriedher along. This, in some mea¬sure, made the captain ebearful,who all the way endeavoured (9comfort and revive his despond¬ing alHicted mistress: but alas! invain, for the miseries they hadlately felt, and the lerrible fateof her poor brother, of whom Idoubt not but the tender heart¬ed reader is anxious to hear,rendered even her most pleas¬ing thoughts, notwithstandinghis soothing words, corrodingand insufferable.The account she gave oftheir disastrous fate and dire ca¬tastrophe, besides what I havealready mentioned, was, thattlie savages had no sooner seenall consumed but they hurriedoff with her and her brother,pushing, and sometimes drag¬ging them on, for four or fivemiles, when they stopt; andstriping her naked, treated herin a shocking manner, whilstothers were stripping and cru¬elly whipping her unhappy bro¬ther. After which, they, in thesame manner pursued theirjourney, regardless of the tears,prayers, or entreaties of this43The Life of Peter Williamson.wretched pair; but with themost infernal pleasure, laughedand rejoiced at the calamitiesand distresses they had broughtthem to, and saw them suiier,until they had arrived a* theplace we found then: • wherethey had butchered her belovedbrother in the following execra¬ble and cruel manner ; they firstscalped him alive,and after mock¬ing his agonizing groans andti rments for some hours, rippedopen his belly, and into whichthey put splinters and chips ofpine trees, and set fire thereto ;the same (on account of thetur-] ntine wherewith these treest: f ound) burnt with great quick¬ness and fury for a little time,ihoing which, he remained inn manner alive, as she couldsometimes pereeive him to move'his head, and groan. Theythen piled a great quantity ofwood all around his body, andconsumed it to ashes.Thus did these barbariansput an end to the being of thisunhappy young gentleman, whowas only 22 years of age whenhe met his calamitous fate.Marching easily on her ac¬count, we returned to the cap¬tain's plantation the 6th of May,where, as well as at Boston, we'were* joyfully received. Mr.Crawford and Miss Tong weresoon after married ; and in gra¬titude to the services we haddone them, the whole partywere invited to the wedding,ami nobly entertained but noriotous or noisy mirth was al¬lowed, the young lady, as wemay well imagine,beingstillunder great affliction, and in aweak state of health.At % Gnadenhutten, a smallMorvian settlement in Nor¬thampton county, the poor un¬happy sufferers were sittinground their peaceful supper,when the inhuman murderers,muffled in the shades of night,dark and horrid as the infernalpurposes of their diabolical souls,stole upon them, butchered,scalped them, and consumedtheir bodies, together with theirhorses, stock, and upwards ofsixty head of fat cattle, all inone general flame ; so ‘hat nextmorning furnished only a me¬lancholy spectacle of theirmingled ashes.At the Great Cove in Cum¬berland, at Tulpehockin inBerks, and in several otherplaces, their barbarities werestill greater, if possible. Men,women, children, and brutebeasts, shared one common de¬struction ; and w here they werenot burnt to ashes, their min¬gled limbs were found promis¬cuously strewed upon theground;those appertaining to the humanform scarce to he distinguishedfrom the brute.One family, consisting of thehusband, his wife, and a child,only a few hours old, were tillfound murdered and scalped inthis manner: The motherstretched on the bed with hernew-born child horribly man¬gled and put under her head fora pillow, while the husband layon the ground hard by, with hisbelly ript up, and his bowelslaid open.45The Life if Peter Wu'damson. 4SIn another place, a woman,with her sucking child, findingthat she had fallen into thehands of the enemy, fell flat onher face, prompted by the strongcall of nature, to cover and shel¬ter her innocent, a child, withher own body. The accursedsavage rushed from his lurkingplace, struck her on the headwith his tomahawk, tore off herscalp, and scoured back into thewoods, without observing thechild, bcing apprehensive thathe was discovered. The childwas found some time afterwardsunder the body of its mother,and was then alive.Many of their young womenwere canned by the savages in¬to captivity, reserved perhapsfor a worse fate than those whosuffered death in all its horridshapes; and no wonder, sincethey were reserved by savages,whose tender mercies might becounted more cruel than theirvery cruelty itself.Tedious and shocking wouldit be to enumerate half the mur¬ders, conflagrations, and out¬rages, committed by these hel¬lish infidels ; let it suffice, there¬fore, that from the year 1753,when they first began theirbarbarities, they had murdered,burnt; scalped, and desrroyed,above 5500, above 1000 ofwhom were unhappy inhabitantsof the western part of Pennsyl-vannia. Men, women and child¬ren, fell alike a prey to the sa¬vages. No regard being paidby them to the tender entrea¬ties of an affectionate parent fora beloved child, or the infant’sprayers in behalf of his agedfather and mother. Such arethe miserable calamities attend¬ant on schemes for gratifyingthe ambition of a tyrannic mon¬archy like France, or the weakcontrivances and indolent mea¬sures of blundering ministersand negociators,.A PARTICULAR DESCRIPTION OF THEINDIAN TOMAHAWK.rpA HIS instrument, in Us pre¬sent form, is said to be the in¬vention of the great William.Penn, first proprietor of Penn¬sylvania. The tools used by theIndians, when he came amongthem, were made of stone, whichwere of little use in cutting wood.He procured a Tomahawk, anda scalping knife; and employedEuropean smiths to make suchafter the Indian pattern; whichwas accordingly done. TheTomaharvk was made like aplasterer's hammer, with a whis¬tle in the handle, to give an alarmin case of danger ; by this, andsuch like inventions, the name ofPenn became famous amongthem. The Indians he foundmuch addicted to smoking to¬bacco. Seeing this, he distributedseveral gross of English pipesamopg them, which pleased themfor the instant; but unused tosuch brittle ware, the pipes would4743Description of the Indian Tcmahatil.not stand thsir rough usage, butquickly broke; which lost Venn'scredit among them, as they con-cl uded themselves defrauded, sincejiijies so easily broken they esteem¬ed of no service. Father Vennas they called him, was hereuponobliged to restore the Indiansgoods he had received in exchangefertile pipes; and was glad toMake sjteedy restitution to preventbad consequences. He thencaused the Tomahawk to be madeto hold tobacco in the head of it,with a hole drilled through thehandle of it to smoke by : an in¬strument of such beneficial sendeeentirely regained him the confi¬dence if the Indians ; and wasmuch mors prized than the for¬mer, with the whistle at the end.In time of war they carry it withthem under their belts, and, whenvictory inclines to their side, af¬ter firing th'cir guns, they rushupon their enemies with it, frac¬turing and cleaving their skulls;very seldom-failing of killing withthe frst blow. They are verydexterous in throwing it, and willstrike an object at 50 yards dis¬tance. They also employ it incutting wood, and in barkingtrees, at the season when theymake their canoes. On the han¬dle of the To mahawk they recordthe occurrences of war. Whentheir warriors are sent to fight,they cut as many nclchets on thehandle of the hatchet to knowtheir number by. Their woundedare also marked down, with thenumber of prisoners they takefrom the enemy; each in a dif¬ferent manner. So that at theclose, they are enabled to form anestimate of the success of everyCTjtedilion. Their Tomahawk isalso the register of their time ; thereturns of the moon, and remark¬able events are thereon distin¬guished, as will appear upon con¬versing with any of their wisemen, who will account for them¬selves for 6000 moons jiast.MAR RATON AND YARATILDA, A TRADITIONARYSTORY OF THE AMERICAN INDIANS.nr' HE American Indians be¬lieve that all creatures have souls,not only men and women, butbrutes, vegetables, nay, even themost inanimate things, a- stocksand stones. They believe thesame of ali the works of art, asof knives, boats, looking-glasses:and that, as any of these thingsperish, their souls go into ano¬ther world, which is inhabitedby the ghosts of men and wo¬men, For this reason they al¬ways place by the corpse oftheir dead friend a bow andarrows, that he may make useof the souls of them in the otherworld, as he did of their woodenbodies in this.There is a tradition amongthe Americans, that one of theircountrymen descended in a vi¬sion to the great repository ofsouls, or, as we call it here, tothe other world ; and that uponhis return he gave his friends aMarralon and Yaratilda.5049distinct account of every thinghe saw among those regions ofthe dead. 'The visionary, whose namewas Marraton, after having tra¬velled for a long space undera hollow mountain, arrived atlength on the confines of tinsworld of spirits, but could notenter it by reason of a thickforest made up of bushes, bram¬bles, and pointed thorns, so per¬plexed and interwoven with oneanother, that it was impossibleto find a passage through it.Whilst he was looking aboutfor some track or path-way, thatmight be worn in any part of it,he saw a huge lion couched un¬der the side of it, who kept hiseye upon him in the same pos¬ture as when he watches for hisprey. The Indian immediate¬ly started back, whilst the lionrose with a spring, and leapedtowards him. Being whollydestitute of weapons, he stoopeddown to take up a huge stone inhis hand; hut to his infinitesurprise grasped nothing, andfound the supposed stone to beonly the apparition of one. Ifhe was disappointed on tins side,he was as much pleased on theother, when he found the lion,which had seized on his left,shoulder, had no power to hurthim, and was only the ghost ofthat ravenous creature. He nosooner got rid of this impetentenemy, but he marched up tothe wood. He had not proceed¬ed far when he observed thethorns and briers to end, andgive place to a thousand beauti¬ful green trees covered withblossoms of the finest scents andcolours. As he was coming outof this delightful part of the wood,and entering upon the plains itinclosed, he saw several horse¬men rushing by him, and a littlewhile after heard the cry of apack of dogs. He bad not list¬ened long before he saw the ap¬parition of a white horse, witha young man on the back of it,advancing the souls of about ahundred beagles that were hunt¬ing down tlic ghost of a bare,which ran away before themwith an unspeakable swiftness.As the man on the horse cameby him, be looked upon himvery attentively, and found himto be a young prince, who diedabout half a year before, and,by reason of bis great virtues,was at that time lamented overall the western parts of America.He had no sooner got outof the wood, but he was enter¬tained with a landscape offlowery meadows, sunny hills,running streams, and shadyvales. This happy region waspeopled by innumerable swarmsof spirits, who applied them¬selves to exercises and diversionsaccording as their fancies ledthem. And multitudes employ¬ing themselves upon ingenioushandicrafts with the souls ofdeparted utensils, for that is thename which, in the Indian lan¬guage, they give their toolswhen they arc burnt or broken.As be travelled through thisdelightful scene, he was very of¬ten tempted to pluck the flowersthat rose every where about himin variety and profusion. Butbe quickly found that, thoughthey were objects of hi: view,51Marratm and Yaratilda.5they were not liable to his touch.He at length came to the sideof a great river, and being agood fisherman himself, stoodupon the banks of it some timeto look upon an angler that hadtaken a great many shapes offishes, which lay flouncing upand down by him.'Itiis Indian had been for¬merly married to one of thegreatest beauties of his country,by whom he had several child¬ren. This couple were so fa¬mous for their love and con¬stancy to one another, thatthe Indians, to this day, whenthey give a married man joy ofhis wife, wish that they may livetogether like Marraton and Yar¬atilda. Marraton had not stoodlong by the fisherman wlien he?aw the shadow of his belovedYaratilda. Her arms werestretched out towards him, floodsof tears ran down here eyes;her looks, her hands, her voicecalled Jiim over to her ; and atthe same time seemed to tellhim that the river was impas¬sable. Who can describe thepassion made up of joy, sorrow,love, desire, astonishment, thatrose in the Indian upon thesight of his dear, Yaratilda?He could express it by nothingbut his tears which ran like ariver down his cheeks as 'heiooked upon her. He had notstood in this posture long beforelie plunged into the stream thatlay before him ; and, finding it.u be nothing but the phantomof a river, walked on the bottomof it till he arose oh the otherside. At his approach Yaratil¬da flew into his arms. Aftermany questions and endearmentson both sides, she conducted himto a bower which she had dres¬sed with her Own hands, with allthe ornaments that could be metwith in those blooming regions.As Marraton stood astonished atthe unspeakable beauty of herhabitation, and ravished with thefragrancy that came from everypart of it, Yaratilda told himtbatjshe was preparing this bower forhis reception, well knowing thathis piety to his god, and his faith¬ful dealings towards men, wouldcertainly bring him to that hap¬py place, whenever his life shouldbe at an end. She then broughttwo of her children to him, whodied some years before, and re¬sided with her in the same de¬lightful bower ; advising him tobreed up those others, whichwere still with him, in such amanner, that they might hereaf¬ter all of them meet together inthis happy place.The Tradition tells us fur¬ther, that he had afterwards asight of those dismal habitationswhich are the portion of ill menafter death ; and mentions sever¬al molten seas of gold, in whichwere plunged the souls of bar¬barous Europeans, who put t«the sword thousands of poor In¬dians for the sake of that pre¬cious metal.F T N l S.1. KEILSlVf PRINTER.