THESAINTS’ DUTYJNEVIL TIME S.TWOS E R M O NS,Preached from Isaiah xxvi. 20.BY THERev. JAMES REN WICK,Late Minister of the Gosp el, who suffered in theGrass Market of Edinburgh, upon the7ch day of February, 1688.Pr-jv. xviii. 10.—7he name of the Lord is a strong! tov/sr ; the righteous runneth into it, and is safe.Psalm xlvi. 1 —God is our refuge and strength, a verypresent help in trouble.KILMARNOCK :Printed for the Bxhclhrs.<La*THESAINTS* DUTY.INEVIL TIMES.Isaiah xxxvi; 20.Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shuthy doors about thee ; hide thyself, as it ox-ere, for ,little moment, until the indignation be overpast.HE bowels of the Lord’s sytnpathy towardhis people, are always bursting out, and h’dow not see them forsaking their own mercy, an*straying from' him ; but is much taken up in lamenting over their folly, and with giving them many a moving and sweet invitation to come to himwhere their happiness lies, and lays himself open tthem, and the riches that are with ,him, with hiarms spread abroad, inviting them by his preciouand hearty promises, seeking nothing of folk, buonly, That they would come and receive freelyIsa. Iv. 1. Ho, every one that thirsteth, cofneye to t). I'waters, and he that hath no monev ; ccme ye, buy an ]eat, yea, const, buy wine and milk without money, anwithout price. He opens up precious and rich ware•and says to his buyers and merchants, the commcdity is good, come away, we shall not cast ciabout the price ; if ye have hearts to receive, I hava heat t to give: Come away then, hearty goocfellows, we will never stand upon it; for ’tis ncwith him as wit^ the men of the world, for theycount them the best good-fellows, who give mostand freeliest; but he counts them the best good-fellows, who will take most and freeliest; and hedebars none from him, but discovers his riches,and invites all, Rev. xxii. 16. I am the root ani ojf-spr 'tng of Da’vidy and the bright and morning star, Sln.lthe Spirit and the bride say come, and let him that hear~eth, say, come, and let him that it a-thirst come. And *whosoever will, let him take of the water of life freely.If this, and such sweet invitations, will not prevail,he makes taws to whip his own to himself; terrorswithin, and judgments without; and he never layson a blow, but he is still provoked to it, and whenhe lays it on, the tears are in his eyes, because hemust do it, Lam. iii. 33. For he deth not afflict wil-knglyi nor grieveth the children of men ; yea, when hisown turns their back upou him, he lets them notalone, but is still calling them back again, Zech-i. 3. Turn ye unto me, saith the Lord of hosts, and I'will turn unto you, saith the Lord of hosts. And also,when he threatens most* sadly, he fails not to make ■large promises to the faithful, and to give themample invitations to comd to him, for their plea¬sure and for their safety. When the Lord is com¬ing out of his place, to sit in judgment upon theinhabitants of the earth, and to give out sentenceupon them, according to their doings, and to punishthem for their iniquities ; he calls his own peopleto himself, when they are to be hid and preserved.-O stand still amazed, and wonder at fiis tender loveand fatherly care of his children, who will come■with his cloak of .zeal, and clothes of vengeance, togive out, and to execute his sentence of justice up¬on his enemies, until that he gave his people fairwarning thereof; and also invites them to theirshelter and safety, which he hath prepared for them.Ye know, Ezekiel ix. the Lord sends foilb, first,A man clothed in linen, with a writer’s mlhorn by hisCa*4 -3'i!e, t' srt a marl up;« tie foreheads of them that sighand cry, for all the abominations that le done in the earthiand commands his mfen, with the slaughtering wea¬pons in their hands, to go after, and smite, and notspare- nor pity, but to slay utterly, old and young,both maids, little children and women ; but not tocome near these upon whom the mark is set.Now the Lord hath men prepared with slaught-* tering weapon* in their hands, to kill a sacrifice atBozrah in.Scotland, of Prelates and malignants, andcf backsliding ministers and professors; he is com¬ing to be avenged on that cursed throne, and thesupporters thereof, for the cruelty done against him.and of ministers and professors,, for their heinoustreachery towards him ; and this is his commission,and our charge unto you, to invite and to call you.and all that will give ear unto this Rock of ages,for your shelter, unto the chambers of his presenceand protection, where ye shall be saved with de-light. 0 come my people, in which words ye have,Lr, An invitation, came, billy, The persons invitedo-r the determination thereof, my people. 3dly, Ttiwhich they are invited unto. 1 he chamber of theLord’s protection and presence, whereunto he in¬vites them to enter. Athly, Their carriage, and thatwhich they are to do there, Shut thy doors about thee,and hide thyself, ai it were, for a moment. 5thly, Thes afety of these chambers, being an hiding placeuntil the indignation be overpast; or rather a determination of the continuance of their hiding, until th.indignation It overpast.As to the first, The invitation, Come, 0 Comea homely word indeed ; this is no less than, Beholir.'l behold me! Here i: enough to give, and here i:willingness to give, only come, only receive, onhtake, and ye shall-not want.But to enlarge a little, we lay down a twofohJ 'ctrineDjctrlne. First, ‘ There h both ability and wilo‘ lingness in the Lard, to give you whatsoever your‘ necessity requires.’Ability, VVirat would you have? Salvation anideliverance, then, He is able to save to the uttermost,all that come unto him, Heb vii. 25. Lift up youreyes and behold a wonder, which ye cannot behold,behold a wonder, which you cannot know, andput forth this question, Isaiah Ixiii. 1. IVho is thisthat oometh from EJom, with dyed garments from Box-ralr? this that is glorious iu his apparel, travtlltng in thegreatness of his strength, and his answer will be untoyou, it is / that speak in righteousness, mighty to save.Gainsay it who will, • The pleasure of the Lordshall prosper in his hand, he shall see cf the travailof his soul and be satisfied.Now methinks I hear you saying, All that is true,we can set our seals to it: but 6, is he willing ?-there is our question. Willing indeed, lie is notmore able than h§ is willing. What are all his pro*mises, but declarations of his fiee willingness ?What are all his sweet invitations, but to tell youthat he is willing, and ye are welcome ? ‘ He thatthirsteth, let him come, and whosoever v ill, let himcome, and take of the water of life freely.’ Ah !what say you to it now ? Give us your seal to hiswillingness also. Lo, say ye, why not ? Ye haveit, Then come away, there is no more wanting,say come ; we know he is willing, and we set ourseal to his willingness. 'But is he willing to receiveme ? Satisfy me in that, and then I will be right.Ah cheat! ye are taking your w^.jd b ick agVk',now, and lifting off your seal; it ye except notyourself, he will not except you : His invitation isunto all; every one come, be that thirsteth, come,he that hath no money, come, Isaiah Iv. 1. Now,why• will ye be so ill to yourselves, as to debaryourselves ? for he doth not do it; y e may ns we ll,and as rationally say, that yon are not a body, asto say, he debars you. His invitation is to everyno6one. Now assent to this, and then, before you ex-TtOept yourself out thereof, you must then not have abeing, neither of sotrl nor body. We say, for youto think that he excepts you, it is all one as to denyyourself to be the children of Adam. Now, Ocome, come niggard, what aileth thee ? Come,what would you have, that is not in Christ ? O !what sweet invitation, Came, we cannot tell whali; in it; there is a depth in it that all the angels inheaven cannot fathom ; it is no less than JesusChrist, nolo-iuas delivered far uur ijjev.cis, and vaOiraised again for our justification. Spreading forth hisr.rms, and inviting you, he is coming up'himselfhis all-sufficiency and superascendant excellency-and calling upon all poor needy things, come, herei; enough for you ; give me your desires, and yovshall have them satisfied to the full. What thenhave ye to say to the bargain ? come, come, it is ?rich commodity, and there Is no sticking at theprice, only receive and have, the easiest of all termsthere is no more required at your hands. But, sa)jiye, Ha, Sir, ye go without your bounds, the invi jtation in your text is to his people ; ye are wrongtjWe are not so far out as ye trow; the invitation i?to his people, to enter into their chambers, and to rtlwho will come and become his people, to enter int4their chambers, and so this is a free market. We musinvite all to come, ye who are enemies, lay dowrfyour arms against him, and come ; ye who arc upholding his enemies, and complying with them iiftheir sinful courses and abominations, by payingthem cess and locality, and by furnishing thenmeat and drink, which is more than a bidding thenGod speed, which the Holy Ghost, by the moutlof John, forbids, 2d Epistle of John, verse 10. Quithe putting the sword in God’s enemies’hands;and'come : ye who have given bonds to the adversary, break your covenant with hell and death, anccome: break your sword allegiance to the devil7aad come, and swear a new allegiance to JesusChrist, and ye shall never rue it; ye who compearbefore their courts and pay them lines, wherebyboth ye acknowledge them robbers of God, andcall your duty your sin, quit these courses, andcome ye, who go to the Curates, leave these perjuredblind guides and come : ye who go to the indulg¬ed, leave these traitors to God. Ye, who go to theblacksliden silent ministers, leave these betrayersi of the cause, and deserters of the cross of Christ ;and come leave all these and follow him, he is a:true guide, and will be so unto you, ye who anvways seek or take the enemy’s protection, leave that.and come ; come to him, and ye shall find chara-i hers indeed, both for safety and delight. All ye.that are strangers to him, come, ye that are in ra-1 ture, come, and ye that know him, come. Wc(must preach that word come, unto you, so long asi we are here, until ye be transplanted out of this) spiritual warfare, into celestial triumph. O Sirs,come, come, ask what ye will, and he will give it ;i O come, come-Now, it were requisite here to shew you who itis that comes unto Christ, who it is that comes not;but it will come as fitly in the second thing which»we have noticed in the words, and so we proceedunto it.The second thing, ye know, was this, the per¬sons invited, or the determination of the invitation,my people These are they whom he invites to theirchambers'; his people, they who subscribe to theterms of this covenant, which is, / will be your God,; and ye shall be my people; they who make a covenantwith him by sacrifice, they who covenant with himonly to be accepted through the sacrifice of hisSon, and they who sacrifice themselves to him,they who espouse him to be their God, and hisquarrel and concernment to be theirs. But beforewe enter upon what is proposed, we proceed to the,4O-j*third thing in the words, to make wsy for it, and'so shall return.The third thing was this, their chambers where-*into they are invited to enter ; that is, the chambers tof the Lord’s protection and presence ; what are tthese chambers do you think ? Ask at Solomon,,and he will tell you, Provetbs xviii. 10. The nameof the Lord is a strong tower, the righteous run into itand are safe. It is Jesus Christ that ye are invitedunto.Doctrine 2. • These chambers are safe, and they* who are therein, need not fear wrath soe forthe confirmation of this point, Isaiah xxxii. 2. A.man shall be as an hiding place from the wind, and acovert from the tempest, as rivers of water in a dry placedas the shadow of a great rock in a weary land.There is the description of these chambers, theyare chambers of safety, no wind can win there intothem, no tempest can overtake them who are there,ye are without the ilood mark of the wrath of God,and they are chambers of delight, ye will not wantrefreshing : they are rivers of water in a dry place,the shadow of a great rock in a weary land ; wecannot commend them unto you, for they pass the.eloquence of angels to do it; but enter these, andye shall find more than we can tell you, enter, and.ye shall find more than ye will be able to tell your-■selve. Enter, we say, that is the invitation : but yewill say, how shall wc enter ? What is requisite foriour entering ? Wrhat will take us in? Answer, Faith,That is the thing will take you in, that is the keythat open these doors ; the use of the means andthe exercise of faith, the hand of duty, and tliekeyof faith ; but take notice, it is true saving faith, itis neither historical, temporary, nor the faith of mi¬racles ; but it is saving faith, whereby Christ is only'received and rested upon ; it is faith as an instru¬ment apprehending the object, Christ; it is that,1 say, which taketh you in.0But for your more clear uptaking whereof, con*isider what is requisite in true saving faith, ht,lA deep sight and sense of your lost condition, thatiye are destroyed, liable to the wrath of God, and!all the curses in the law. 2Jly, A sense of this, that(there is nothing in you, or that ye can do, that willhelp you, it is beyond all created power to recoveryou, and so, not at all, seeking to establish a seii-irighteousness, it is, Ciitu* unto me ye that labour and.are hea-vy laden, and l 'will give you rat. 'duly, Aright sense of the ali-sutEciency that is in JesusChrist, and his excellency drawing the heart out(after him, as all the desire of the soul, and so clos-ling with him. Therefore, ye who remain senselessi-of your lost condition, have a care ; ye are not yetin these chambers.i But that it may be made clear unto you, consider' moreover, if you would enter into these chambers :I Is/, Ye must close with Christ alone, there must; nothing have a share in the meritorious cause inj bringing you there, but himself only j ye must not.lay part of the weight upon him, and part uponl yourselves and your duties. No, no, he must either! have it all on his back, or else he will have noneef. it, therefore take heed to yourselves. 2Jly, You| must close with full Christ, as Prophet, Priest and| King ; as a Prophet to teach you his will; he must, be your school master ; as Priest, through whosej sacrifice only, the Father must accept you, and whoi continually makes Intercession at his right hand for; you ; and as King, to sway a scepter in your soulsl to rule you according to his own law, and to castI down, and to cast out every thing exalting itselfagainst his kingdom within you.O take heed to this, ye who regard not his will,j ye who give him not a throne in your hearts ; withi out this ye cannot enter into these chambers ; andI assure yourselves, if he were reigning in you ye■j would care more, and contend more for his king-10!♦loin without yon, and in the world.' Take heed to:this, ye who c.tre not though a tyrant possess histhrone, and as it were, spoil him from his princely .robes; take heed to this, ye who stand, not to holddown his kingdom, by upholding his enemies.—»3ii’y, Ye must (if ve would enter into these cham-.bers) close with all the inconveniences that followhim; his cross must be taken up, Luke ix. 23, 2t.If any man will come after nv, let him deny himsdf, andtake up hts cross daily and follow me. For <wh soeverwill save his life, shall lose it. But whosoever will losshis life Jor my sake, the same shall save itWhatever he calls you uuto must be embraced :your heart must subscribe to the reasonablenessand desireableness of every one of these inconveni¬ences; but let us change their names, and call themconveniences and Christian advantages, and so we |may; for they are of special good use to Christi¬ans ; these are a part of the discipline of Christ’sSchool; and some say this is David’s meaning, ,Psalm cxvi. i3. where he says, I luill take the cup |of salvation. That is, as they say, the cup of aSIiC- ||tion, as that whereby the Lord works the salvation Uof his people ; and so indeed the cup of affliction umay be called the cup of salvation. Now that is Uthe way ye must go. v .HUse. O come away, let us hear what ye say to it. |Are ye willing to enter this way ? Think upon it.This is the way ye must enter, and in our telling of iit, we may tremble to think upon this generation, ,who will not close with these (so called) inconveni¬ences. We have no skiU of people’s closing withChrist, who will not close with these) But Oh,What say ye unto us ? What is your reply ? Is itnot this. That neither death r.er life, nor angels, norprincipalities, n.r powers, nor things present, northingsto come,pior heighth. nor depth, nor any other creature,shall he able to separate us from the lave of God, whichts in Christ Jesus our Lord.11Is this yoar saying, then come away, tak« him*> and take on his yoke cheerfully, For hit yoke it e<uyti and his burden light.AFTERNOONSERMON.-Isaiah xxvi. 20.| Come my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shutthy doors about thee; hide thyself, as it were, for alittle moment, until the indignation be overpast.THIS is the way that folk undo themselves, andforsake their own mercies ; that which oughtto chase them to God, chases them out from him.I All hypocritical convictions only put them the fur-| ther away from the Physician, so it is with judg-; ment, which should put folk to their duties, theyare thereby put from it. When the Lord furnisheshis glittering sword of justice, then it is to drive| his own children into his own hand, Come tny people,I enter thou into thy chambers.Ye know the last occasion how we divided thesewords; ye know also, how that before we left theJ first head, we said, it would be requisite to shewi unto you, who it is that comes to Christ, and whoit is that comes not. But we told you, that itwould come more fitly in the second head ; yet, to12•make way for it, we proceed forwards unto thethird thing in the words. And now having touchedthat a little we return again, as we told you, weproposed to do, and still (as the Lord will enable)opemthe second head, farther declaring who are hispeople, viz.These, as we were saying, who hare made a co-.venant with him by sacrifice, to be accepted onlythrough the sacrifice of his Son, and who sacrificeaway themselves unto'him. In a word, it's thesewho are righteous, and who live righteously. Thesewho are righteous, are these who have fled untoChrist to~ his righteousness, and have gotten them¬selves clothed therewith But that ye may the moreclearly take up, who these are that come to Christ ;before we give you some marks of them, and somerules how to apply these marks, we shall first de¬clare who it is that come not.Fust, These come not unto Christ, who comenot from all sin, Ezek. xviii 21. ‘ But if the wick-‘ ed wlil turn from all sins that he hath committed,* and keep all my statutes, and do that which is* lawful and right, he shall surely live, he shall not* die.’ Ye see the condition, it is if ye will turnfrom all sin. both omission-and commission ; fromall sin, unto all duty ; leaving all sin, and taking upall Christian duty. Therefore remember, if ye enter¬tain any one idol that will keep Christ out. Ma¬ny say of some idol sin, that they do no't quit, asLot said of Zoar, ‘ It is a little one, therefore let‘ me brook itbut remember what David says, ‘ It‘ I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not‘ hear me,’ Psalm Irvi. 18. Remember this and de¬stroy not yourselves, ye who follow not gross swear¬ing, drinking or wh< ring, and the like, yet cleaveunto your petty minced oaths, md your idle vaindiscourse, and your light conversation. O remem¬ber this, ye who have any predominate, whose headye clap : your right nand and your right eye sinsv ' 13must be cut off, and plucked -out, before you canenter into the kingdom of heaven : I say, if ye en¬tertain any predominate, it speaks out this, Thatye would as well entertain all sins, if your inclina¬tions were as bent upon them, and that ye do notleave them, as they are hateful to God, but only,as they are not so delightsomeor hurtful unto you.0 ! take heed, ‘ except ye repent ami amend, ye-shall all likewise perish.’ Remember this ye moralcivilians. Who are not chargeable with gross pro--f tnity in your private walk, yet have your handsembrued in blood, and have them dehled with pub¬lic land-sins, which procure land judgment ! Yetake a liberty to pay cess, and fines and teinds toBaal’s priests, and do many other things to strength¬en the enemies of our Lord, and condemn his cause,1 say, take heed to yourselves ; ‘ except ye repentand amend, ye shall all likewise perish.” Remem¬ber this, ye who turn not to make up all Christianduties with yon ; ye think it enough ye babble overtwo or three words at right and at morn to your¬selves, though you set not up the worship of God•in yonr families, and ii you do that, ye tbh k thatenough though you'■either put to your hand to actwith the Lord, nor sympathize with his. afflictedpeople, nor embody yourselves in society withthem, to cry for all the abominations of the land,O take her d, ‘ except you repent and amend, )eshall all likewise perish.’Secondly, These come not unto Christ, who thoughthey may come a great length; not to be chargeableby-man, neither with omission nor commission, yetrest there ; all that will not take them to heaven.Paul, before his conversion, he reports of himself,Phil. iii. 6 ‘ was touching the righteousness, whichis in the law blameless.’ He was as trim a legalistas the best of you; but mark what he says of him¬self in the 7, 8, & 9th verses, ‘ But what things w ere‘ gain to me ; those I counted loss for Christ, yea14‘ doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the‘ excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my‘ Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all* things, and do count them but dung, that I may‘ win Christ, and be found in him, not having mine‘ own righteousness, which is of the law, but that‘ which is-through tbe faith of Christ, the righteous-‘ ness which is of God by faitli.’ There is thatwhich ye must only rest on, and no where else,but upon the complete and inherent righteousnessof Jesus Christ, therefore take heed how ye build.Thirdly, These come not unto Jesus Christ, whofeed themselves up in that deluding fancy, that theyhave not so much need of him, as others have, byreason of their thinking their sins but little sins. O,say some, I am not like the profane and wicked;v.'hat -then need I fear ? O poor fool, mind what*the aposde tells thee, Gal. iii. 10, ‘ For in such a. ‘ case, thou art under the ^aw, and as many as are‘ of die works of the law, are under die curse, for8 it is written, cursed is every one that cortinueth8 not in all things which are written in the law, to'8 do them.’, A pen-knife can take away the life aswell as a broad-sword : Indeed, I think the case ofdie wicked and profane is more hopeful than thycase, because they will be sooner gotten convincedof the necessity of repentance than thou wilt.Fourthly, These come not unto Christ, who, be¬cause they meet with favourable dispensations, andgreat proofs of the Lord’s general providences,thereupon conclude all 'S well with them. Thinkupon what David says, Psalm xvti. 14-, ‘ From men8 which are thy hand, 0 Lord, from men of the8 world, which have their portions in this life, and8 whose belly thou fillest with thy hid treasure: they8 are full of children, and leave the rest of ther‘ substance to their babes.’—8 None knoweth love‘ or hatred by all that is before him,’ Eel. xi.Fifthly', These come not to Christ, who think all15is right with them, because they are not challengedin their consciences. O mad fools, whose heartsare sealed with obduration, the saddest place in allthe scripture holds forth your case. Hosea iv. 17,‘ Ephraim is joined to his idols : Eet him alone.'When they drop into hell, the fire thereof will soonburn up that thick skin that is grown upon yourconsciences.Sixthly, These come not unto Christ, who restupoa. their apprehended sorrow for sin. O, saythey, I am ncit such a fool as to think all is well,because I want challenges, but because I havethem : Remember Esau, remember Judas, yourbuilding upon your sorrows and tears, is like a manthat builds upon a flow-moss.Seventhly, These come not unto Christ, who fall•off the common road of sin into duty, and restthere:; Mind what our Lord says ol the conceitiePharisee, Luke xviii, 11, T2, lb, and I k Thatthough he was not an extortioner, unjust, nor anadulterer and fasted twice a week, and paid tithes•of all that he possessed, jet he went not down, tohis house so justified as the poor publican did ; yet,ye will say, I am tar from swearing, drinking, See.and have betaken myself tc the society of thepeople of God ; and I read and pray, fee. TJiere.f. re all is well; O poor fool, thy case is now worsethan ever. O we tremble to think upon the mul¬titude that pray themselves into hell; This is Da¬vid indeed, who kills his ten thousands. Whatshall I liken you to? Ye are like a man that dig-gethdeep down, and casts out the old earth, brings newearth ot his own mould, hut goes not the length ofthe rock.■Eighthly, These come not unto Christ, who even 'go that length, as to assent to the spiritual mean¬ing of the law, and rest there. 'Phi'S is much in¬deed ; this is a great length, yea, a greater lengththan the most part of you, who aie hearing me thisiLa*16d,iy, have come unto, and yet they are far from thekingdom of heaven.’ Observe that passage, Markxii.d2,83. Whfere a scribe answered our Lord, andsud, ‘ To love the Lord with all the heart, and‘ with all the understanding, and with all the soui,‘and W1 dl all the strength, and to love his neigh-‘ hour as himseif, is mure than whole burnt offer-‘ ings and sacrifices.’ i'o whom our Lord replies,31th verse, ‘ Thou art not far from the kingdom‘ of God.’Ninthly, These come not unto Jesus Christ, whohave common gifts, and rest there. O, say ye, Ifind a faculty ot prayer, I want not words enough,and get them bravely set upon the pins, and 1 havegreat knowledge of the scriptures, and I am straightand not biassed in my judgment; and what needsuch a man (as l) fear? O deluded soul, considerwhat Paul says, 1 Cor, xiii, ‘i. ‘ Though I have the‘ gift of prophecy, and understanding all mvsieries‘ and all knowledge, and though I have all faith,' so that l could remove mountains, and have not‘ chaiity, I am nothing.’ No doubt, Judas hadmuch of this; God will give gifts unto persons, forthe behoof and advantage of others ; but when hegives grace, it is ay for their own advantage ; yea,the devil is better gifted, and hath more knowledgethan all of you have.Tfnthly, These come not unto Christ, who sulTcrmany things materially for the truth, and havesome seeming fruits thereof, and rest theie ; do m tthink that your suffering your goods to be spoiled,and yourselves cast out of your habitation before ye•dimply with the enemy, is a ground, from whichye may conclude all to be right; Nay, I tell you,as the apostle says, 1 Cor. xiii. Though ye shouldbestow all your goods to feed the poor, ‘ though I‘ give my body to he burned, and have not charily,‘ it profits me nothing ;’ Yea, the same apostle sup-poseth, Gal. hi. 4-, that there may be such suffering17in vain. ‘ Have ye sufFerrd so many things in• vain ? If it be in vain.' There are many of youthat are suffering this day materially for Christ;materially, we say, and not formally; for hypocritesnever win to sincerity in their doings and suffer*ings, nor do to them as to God; and yet ye willget hell to suffer in throughout all eternity : yea,a man when his credit is straitly engaged, he may■give his life for the cause, and yet get hell for hisreward.Eleventhly, Ttese come not unto Christ who haveonly a historic J and temporary faith, instead of asaving faith, though ye should believe all the truthsin the Bible, yet that will not avail you, the devilsbelieve and tremble ; yea, though you should giveyour general assent to the way of salvation byCftrist, yet unless you receive and embrace him,and rest upon him, all will be for nought : l.Oi kthe case of this people ; Isa. xlviii. 2, ‘ Who call‘ themselves of the holy city, and stay themselves4 upon the God of Israel ?’ but what says the Lordof them ? 4 Yet not in tiuth nor in righteousnessO take heed what ye are doing, and do not deceiveyourselves, for ye may win this length, as to beconvinced, that it is good to come unto Christ, andthink ye have done it, being blinded by your pride,and may some way comfort yourselves as if ye haddone it, in this your presumptuous dream, and yetreally, never have done it: never really, have beenbrought to deny your own righteousness, and toreceive Christ, relying only upon him for attaininglife through his righteousness and satisfaction.Twelfthly, 1'hese come not unto Christ, whohave ’only the common operation of the Spirit, up¬on the affection within, and resting there, concludethat all is well with them. We have already spokenof the danger of resting upon apprehended sorrowfor sin, so there may he much also of the flames ofjoy, tenderness and heart meltings, which hypo*18crites may have at sometimes by another. Considerthese who were John’s hearers, John v. So. ‘ Who* for a season rejoiced in his light,’ O ! beware ofgospel hypocrites, take not flashes for conversion.If it could be determined how great a length hypo¬crites may come, v-e think it would be first here. Owhat shall we say of it ! do what they will, andcome as great a length as they can, they never comeunto Christ, who are not folly denied to themselvesand positively only rest upon Jesus Christ, for jus¬tification and sanctification. True^faitli hath twn>voices, ist, it calls and cries, O S'v^er, lean not to .thyself, rest not there. 2J/y, O sinner, rest on.Jesus Christ and lean unto himself.Use. Now, t) believers, search and try yourselfs,.set about it earnestly, this i& your work, and it willnot be done slumbering and sleeping : There fre-many of you here this dav, who are not come thelength of some of these sups, w’hrch we have nam¬ed; yet. ye may come through them all every one,and if ye go not further, ye will ne’er win to Christ: <And in his name I tell you, ‘ Except your righte-‘ ousness exceed the j ighteousness of the Scribes‘ and Pharisees, ye cannot enter into the kingdom* of Heaven ’Ye know, we gave you some hints of these whoare the Lord’s people, viz, ‘ These who have come* unto Christ,’ are made righteous, and live righ¬teously : and for the more clearing of it, we nowdeclare who thpse are, who have come unto himby giving some marks and evidences, how the samemay be know n. We are not speaking of, ‘ being in* Christ,’ as a creatine by creation and preservation,nor as a member externally, but as a membei'inter-,nally and effectually, but ye will say, how is that ?Ans. By the strict union and communication betwixtChrist and the Christians, w hich is from the strict¬ness of the bond ; to tilt. His wmrd and Spirit onhis part, and faith and love on their part. Now we*19say, how will that be known ? Well, we will giveyou these marks; therefore try yourselves For, -,f irst, If ye be come to Christ, then ye will findin you, a hatred of all sin naturally, and a desire toall good, though often ye may fail in the perform¬ance, Rom vii 15. Paul says, ‘ That which 1 do I‘ allow not, for what 1 would, that I do not, but1 what I hale, that 1 do.’ 1 John iii. 8. Whosoever‘ abid, Ci in him sinneth notto -wit, 1st, Purpos-edly, i2.dly, Willingly, Affectionately, notunto death: For the Lord’s people have, (1.) Grief,(2.) Care to reaver, (3.) Fear to sin. 0 ! can yerun on in sin, wMiout returning and cai e of repen¬tance ; rf it be so, ye are not in this living root.Secondly, If ye be come unto Christ, then ye willfind this in y<?u, a right and high esteem of theIjCjd’S mercy, he and his salvation w ill be onlyprecious in your eyes, ‘ Blessed is he whose trans-‘ gression is forgiven, w'hose sin is coveted, Psalmitvii. 1 That will be your thoughts.Thirdly, If ye be con.e unto Christ, ye will findthis in you, a love unto the way of holiness, as wellas happutess itself: Yea, your heart will be sodrawn after that noble device of salvation, seeingall the glorious attributes of God so shining therein,that ye would in no ways be content to go toheaven another wTay, than that glorious way, thoughit could be had, and this is all die Lord requiresof you, only a pleasing the device - This is the bra¬zen sepent, which you must look unto for healing.O come away.Fourthly, If ye be come unto Christ, then ye w illfind this in you, an acting upon God as he actsupon you : hath he called you ? then ye will callupon him; hath he justified you ? then ye willjustify him.Fifthly, If ye be enme unto Christ, then ye willfind this in you, a self-denial, and a daily taking upof the cross, against your own inclinations, the doc-20trine aird practice of mortification, and a cuttinyourself short of .carnal delights will he desired byyou.Sixthly, If ye be come unto Christ, then ye willbe subject unto him willingly, and yield sweetlyunto the swaying of his sceptre in your soul.Seventhly, If ye be come unto Christ, then ye aresubject unto him universally in all his commands.Eighthly, If ye be come unto Christ, then ye are)subject unto him sincerely in all things, seeking hisjgbry.Ninthly, If ye be come unto Cp|jst, then ye aresubject unto him constantly, obeying him withoutwearying.Tenthly, If ye be come unto Christ, then his wordabideth in you, 1 Johnii. 12. If that which yehavheard from the beginning remain in you, ye siftibia<continue in the Son and in the Father, it must abidein you, so as your mind understands it, your heartsaffect it. O how have that which ye have read andheard, retained ? Few, few, in Christ.Eleventhly, If ye be come unto Christ, ye will findhis Spirit, ‘ leading you unto all truth,' John xvi.13. Teaching thee, and leading thee unto, and con¬firming thee in duty ; and do not mistake, we meanno enthusiastic spirit, but his word and Spirit whichhe hath enjoined, Isa. lix. 21. ‘ My Spirit which is* upon thee, and my words which I have put in‘ thy mouth, shall not depart,' &c.Twelfthly, If ye be conic unto Christ, then ye willfind his Spirit convincing you of sin.Thirteenthly, If ye be come unto Christ, then yewill find, his Spirit ruling in you, casting down allthings exalted against Christ's kingdom.Fourteenrhly, If ye be come unto Christ, ye will findhis Spirit in you by supplication, leading unto a senseof sin, and apprehension of the necessity oi mercy.Fifteenth!'!, It ye be come unto Christ, then yewill findfaith in you, that will be your stay in all21states, actions, temptations and afflictions : This isaard to find our, yet it may be found out, if yepave a desire for it, ye may have it.Sixieenthly, If ye be come unto Christ, then yewill find an admirable change in you, a new Spiritjwithout guile, a new judgmen'-, new desires, newaffections, love, hatred, sorrow, joy ; new senses,eyes, smelling, ears, taste, feeling. Use ; Now findye these, or any of these marks really in you, then!doubt no more, misbelieve no more, all is sure, yeare come unto/^hrist, and seeing ye are come untohim, press ay fm%iore and more of his likeness, fora progress in sanctification. Remember, 1 John ii. 6.‘ He that saith he abideth in him, ought himself‘ also to walk even as he walked.’ And this leadsutt, unto the third thing in the opening up of thisIpoTnt, to Tvit, To declare who are his people ; they,as we were saying, who are righteous, and liverighteously. Now these vho are righteous, arethese who have- #d unto Christ, and they indeedlive righteously. Yea, to make it more clear, weshall in short tell you who they are who live righ¬teously ; These to wit, in a word, ‘ Who walk as hewalked.’ The life of Christ can teach us all things.First, They live righteously, beginning all thingswith God, referring all things to God. 2<ily, Theydo all things by the warrant of his word, contem¬ning the:r own wills, that they might do the Lord’s:‘ Not my will but thy will be done,’ they must losetheir life, before they lose their obedience. 3<//y,They walk holy, ‘ Be ye holy as I am holy,’ Johniii. 3. ‘ Every man, that hath this hope in him,‘ purifieth himself even as he is pure, \thly, Theywalk fruitfully, they go about doing good ; O sad!not only the unfruitful walking of this generation,b it v<*ven the stumbling that they are. 5‘bly, Theywalk justly, not wronging any ; These are they wholive righteously, who walk so as Christ walked.<122these only arq his people, righteous persons, ridteous livers, and it ft these whom the Lord hatchambers for.Now, Sixtkty, vnz proceed to the rules how to atp y these evidences. Lr, Though you find thernot ail, yet if ye fi*d one or more of them reallthen comfort yourselves. 2dly, If you find nosshat you have formerly found, labour more to rfnew the same, than to seek a. sight of the oldDo not- try yourselves in the hour of 'temptation. 4/.6/v, When ye find mark%and evidencesdo not-rest upon them, for thoif|h ye have themthey may,soon be gone. Do not pursue simucli to satisfy your sense fbr the present, as tVhare a solid well grcmn-Jed assurance' for theto come. Be hot so desirous to know wfiiayou are, as what, ytui should t!o. Spend not yourtirii- in questioning your state, as ye do, but use theme ins of real union and coninmnion with Christ:This the sljoiu*st and surest way. 7/6/y, Judge-not yourselves.by the mcasu.pe-of your graces, butby tfhfe sincerity of them. 8/%, Compare not your."Selves too much to the saints, iniPjudge. yourselves■fiy rise word.hen there is a serious wrestling againstcorruptkm, though not meeting with any sensiblevictory, yet cast not away your'hope., Paul tellsyou, Rom. yji, how far a child of God may be en.„ylaved by a body ojf sin.Tuiiltf, Remembei we have to do with God in acovenant of grace. Now, what more shall jVe s'ay ?Must we end as we began ? ^)h! come away, comeawayyto Christ, this Prince of dd-ights, erme andenter into these chambers. Motive,' Ijy, Come awavaiid enter, then,your cbndition will be homnnablewith Chr>st. 2b/v, Qomforitabie. All your debt*,arc paid. 2£y, Rich. All that Christ hath, graceand goodness is all thine. 4/M',. - Fruitful^ He,.purgeth his branchw' Bale.' He takes A?