EY WHICHFuture Events are Foretold from Visionsduring Sleep.Coming ev ents Cast their shadows before.'GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,1858.fBPji  THE DREAM INTERPRETER.A-led. To dream of being in bed betokens good health, but,beware ! for some one wishes to injure you.Abuse. To dream of being abused or insulted, is a sign thatyou will have a dispute with some person.Abroad. If you dream that you are in a foreign country,some one who is making money abroad is likely to bequeatha fortune to you.Acquaintance. To dream you quarrel or fight with an ac¬quaintance, is an unlucky omen; it forebodes a divisioni among your own family, much to the injury and prejudice oft the dreamer; if you are in love, your mistress will prove un¬faithful, and marry some other man that she has told you she; most hates ; if you are in business, some heavy loss will befallyon; you will disagree with some of your best friends on themost trivial matters, which will end in an open rupture ; ifyou are a farmer, expect a bad crop, the murrain amongstyour cattle, that your pigs and poultry will fail and not fetchgood prices ; if you have a law-suit, depend that your attorney' will neglect you, that your witnesses will be tardy and back¬ward, and that finally you will lose your cause. Do not for3 some time undertake a journey by land, or a voyage by sea t) enter for the present into no new undertaking, for you will bounsuccessful; quit, if you can, your present place of residence ;and, above all, avoid lending money, for you will surely loseit together with the friendship of those to whom you lend it.If you dream that you are with an acquaintance at some placeI of public amusement, you may expect soon to be called fromhome on business of importance.Adultery. To dream of the committing of this sin forebodesgreat troubles and misfortunes. If you are in love, you willcertainly fail in marrying the object of your wishes ; if youhave a law-suit, it will certainly go against you, by the treach-ety of those who pretend to be your friends; if you are in4business, some heavy loss will happen to you. Such a dreamannounces that you are in great danger oflosing your liberty,and if you are about to undertake a voyage to sea, omit it forthe present, for you will never reach the destined port. Todream you are tempted to commit this crime, and that youresist it, it is a happy omen,—every thing will flourish withyou,—be sure it is a good time to begin trade after such adream ; if you have a law-suit, all will go on in your favour,with credit to yourself, and confusion to your opponents; ifyou are about to undertake a long journey, it will be pleasantand successful to your object; if you are going to sea, you willhave an agreeable voyage, beautiful weather, and a quickarrival at the port of destination ; if you are in love, do notdesist in pressing the object of your wishes, for they will begratified.Almonds. To dream of these indicates difficulties, loss ofliberty, and deceit in love.Altar. To dream that you are at the altar betokens joy andgladness; if at the hymeneal altar, your marriage will bedeferred.Anchor. To dream of an anchor, signifies great assurance,and certain hope ; if you are in love, it warns you to be assi¬duous and attentive to obtain the object of your wishes ; butneware of some friend who pretends more than ordinaryattachment; he will deceive you, and try, vainly, to injureyon in the most tender part.Angels. To dream of angels is a sign that some one is nearyou—the remaining part of your dream will prove true, betherefore mindful of it; if you are in love, nothing can bomore favourable, and your undertakings will prosper.Anger. To dream that you are angry with any one denotesthat you have many enemies, and that some evil design isformed against your happiness ; if you are in love, some rivalis slandering you to your sweetheart; if with your spouse,disgrace threatens you. If you dream of another person ina passion with you, it is more favourable, but betokens someunpleasant misfortune about to happen to you; if you areangry with your sweetheart, he will fall sick, and you willexperience loss.Ants. To dream of ants signifies a covetous mind; to seeants busy, foretells that your industry will be crowned withsuccess; if they appear to be devoured by other animals,some secret enemy is trying to ruin you; if yon are sick whenyou dream of ants, your recovery will be slow but certain.Anxiety. To dream that you are anxious to accomplish anyproject denotes that you would soon tire of it; to think yourmind is anxious or uneasy is a sign some one wishes to do youa favour.Apparel. See Dress.Apples. To dream of ripe and sweet apples is a sure signof prosperity; if they are sour, it signifies that sorrow andunhappiness are likely to befall you.Arms. To dream that your arms are weak, shows that yourhealth or fortune ■will decline ; if they appear to be strong,you will meet with unexpected prosperity; if your arms arebroken, you will lose some dear friend ; if your right arm isbroken, you will lose some near male relation ; if the left, afemale.Ass. To dream that you are riding on an ass signifies thatyou will be guilty of some foolish action; if you see him feed¬ing, your servants will be faithful; if you are driving him,you will be freed from trouble ; if he runs after you, some wagwill occasion a laugh against you ; if he appears loaded, yourfortune will advance.Back. If you dream that your back is broken, you will meetwith some loss; if it grows stronger, you will receive anunexpected addition to your fortune; to dream of the backbone indicates long life and happiness in your children.Bathing. To dream that you are bathing alone in the sec,signifies that you will never be married; but if you ate incompany with others you will soon be married and live hap¬pily ; if, however, you are in fresh water, your lover wi.ldeceive you.Battle. If you dream you see a battle, beware of secretenemies, who will endeavour to hurt you; if you arc in love,your sweetheart is false.Beef. To dream of beef denotes the death of a friend orrelation,—in love, it denotes disappointment.Bees. To dream you see bees at work signifies that yourindustry will be successful; if they are flying about, badreports will be spread of you; if they sting you, you will suf¬fer loss either of your goods or reputation.Birds. To dream you hear birds singing is a sign of happi¬ness ; if you are married, something will happen much to theadvantage of your family; it is a sign of great success in busi¬ness ; to see them fly denotes yon will soon go a long journey,which will be pleasant and prosperous; to dream you catchthem, signifies some unexpected good fortune; if they arebeautiful, the success will be the greater ; to dream you findan empty nest denotes losses and great uneasiness.Boat. To dream you are in a boat on clear water is verygood, and indicates joy and prosperity.6Bread. To dream you see a quantity of bread denotes greatsuccess in life; to dream of eating bread, denotes many friendswho will do you kindness.Bridge. To dream you are going over a bridge and meetwith no interruption, you will go through life in a prosperousinanner; if any thing impedes you, you will meet with manyobstacles in the world.Blushing. If you dream that you are brushing dusty clothes,it is a sign that a serious illness will overtake you; but if yousee another brushing them, it betokens prosperity in life.Buried Alive. If you dream you are buried alive, it showsyou are in danger of being unhappy and unfortunate duringyour life.Candle. To dream that you see a candle burning denotesthat your lover is jealous ; but if it is not burning, your sweet¬heart adores you.Cards. To dream you are playing at cards denotes that youwill soon be in love, if you are not so already; if you hold agreat many court cards, you will soon be married and happy.Cats. To dream of cats denotes much disappointment to alover—your sweetheart is unfaithful; if you have servants,they will rob you ; a cat means a lurking enemy.Cherries. To dream of cherries betokens disappointmentsin life, vexations in marriage, falsehood in love, and deceitfulpleasure ; but if you climb ithe tree, a sure, speedy, and unex¬pected advancement in life is certain to happen to you.Children. To dream you have children is a sign that youwill be happy in your family; if one or more of them die, youwill meet with some misfortune.Coach. To dream of riding in a coach denotes that you willlove idleness, and are given to pride; to dream of coming outof a coach signifies that disgrace threatens you, and greatcaution is necessary.Coals. To dream of clear burning coals denotes prosperity,especially in love; coals in their natural state indicate troubleand discontent; extinguished coals announce the loss of for¬tune, or the death of some near friend.Comets. To dream you see a comet is ominous of war,plague, famine, and death ; to the lover it forebodes an entirefrustration of his hopes ; to the farmer, failure of crops ; andto the seaman, storms and shipwreck.Com. To dream you are gathering ripe corn denotes suc¬cess in your enterprise ; but if it is blighted or mildewed, yonwill be a great loser.Corns. To dream that you have corns on your little toes,and that you experience great pain in walking, denotes that7you will have to travel much before you are permanentlyemployed, but if they don’t hurt you, your lover intends toaccompany you on a pleasure excursion ; if you are married,the first is a sign that you will have twin-brothers; if thesecond, a law-suit about a little piece of house-property.Currants. To dream of black currants denotes great happi¬ness in the married state ; if you dream you are pulling them,. it is certain you will have a large family, who will all do well;but if the currants are red, beware of false friends, thosewhom you little expect, for they will do you harm if they pos¬sibly can.Dancing. To dream you are dancing at a ball foretells youwill soon receive some news from a long absent friend ; to thesailor, a successful voyage; to married persons, increase ofchildren; to those in trade, much business; and to youngpeople, a happy marriage.Darkness. To dream you are in the dark is a token of afflic¬tion, and loss in trade ; to get out of darkness into light, is asign of rising to eminence, or of escaping out of difficul¬ties.Death. To dream you are dead denotes a speedy marriage,and success in all your undertakings; to the married, it pro¬mises young children, who will be dutiful and give great com¬fort ; to dream you see another person dead, denotes ill usagefrom friends; if you are in love, your sweetheart will provefalse; if you are in trade, sharpers will take you in ; if afarmer, you will lose money by horses, and be waylaid as youreturn from market.Debt. To dream you are in debt and pursued by officers,denotes that you will fall into some unexpected difficulties, orgreat danger.Devil. To dream you see the devil without fear, foretells youwill get the better of your adversary; if you are frightened,you will be under some danger.Dogs. To dream of these domestic and faithful animals, hasvery different significations, according to the manner in whichyou see them ; if they fawn and fondle upon you, then it is alucky omen ; if you have had a quarrel with a friend or sweet¬heart, it will be reconciled to your advantage ; if you are inlove, your sweetheart will marry you, and render you veryhappy; it denotes health, riches, and honour; if they arebarking and snarling at you, then depend that enemies arei secretly endeavouring to destroy your reputation and happi¬ness ; if you are in love, be careful of your present sweetheart;if you marry him or her, you will be unhappy and poor; ityou dream they bite you, then it is a certain prognostic that■jjjMCRvati »'s.=a.v^ir. •8you will experience some loss; if you are in lore, your sweet¬heart will deceive you, and make you very unhappy.Dress. To dream you are dressed in white is a token of suc¬cess in the first object you undertake ; if in love, that yoursweetheart is of a good temper and amiable disposition. Todream you are dressed in green denotes that you are about toundertake a journey to your advantage, and that your sweet¬heart prefers you to all other lovers. To dream you aredressed in black is an unlucky omen; quarrels, sickness, death,and law-suits will perplex and harass you. To dream you aredressed in blue denotes happiness, banquets, and merry mak¬ing. If you dream you are dressed in scarlet, you are therebywarned of some very heavy calamity, and a severe fit of ill¬ness. To dream you are dressed in yellow is rather lucky thanotherwise, your sweetheart by it appears to be very jealous ofyou, and great pains will be requisite to prevent your separat¬ing. To dream you are dressed in crimson denotes that youwill live to a good old age, and will be neither fortunate norunfortunate through life. To dream you are dressed in avariety of colours denotes a variety' of fortunes are about toattend you—old friends will desert you, new ones will supplytheir place; if you are in love, a quarrel will take placebetween you and your sweetheart, which will, after muchuneasiness to both parties, be adjusted by friends. To dreamyou are fashionably dressed and in good company, is very good;you will rise considerably above your present condition ; yoursweetheart will prefer you above others, and be very goodtempered; whatever you undertake will have a prosperousissue, and some unexpected news of an agreeable nature willreach ymu—expect to see a long absent friend return in goodcircumstances; but avoid having a dispute with any one, forit will go against you, and do harm, particularly if it be withyour sweetheart. To dream you are dressed shabbily', thatyour clothes are ragged and torn, is a bad omen.Drowning. To dream you are drowning, or that you seeanother drowned or drowning, denotes that you will escapemany difficulties, settle near your native place, marry, havechildren, and become happy and rich ; to the lover it denotesthat your sweetheart is good tempered and inclined to marryyou. If you are a sailor it foretells a pleasant voyage.Drunk. If you dream of being intoxicated, it is sure thatsome one is slandering you, but a sincere friend, by his inter¬ference, destroys their inveterate malice.• Eagle. To dream of seeing an eagle soaring high is a goodomen to those who have great undertakings on hand ; but todream that an eagle alights upon us, signifies mischance.9Ealing. To dream you are eating denotes profit and suc¬cess in your present enterprise; a loathing of victuals is a signof disunion in your family.Errand. To dream that you are running an errand, andthat one of your shoes comes off, is a sign that you will losea sincere friend; if you succeed in accomplishing your mes¬sage without any accident, then there is the greatest pros¬perity in store for you, so lose no opportunity of lawfullybettering your condition in life.Evil Spirits: If you see evil spirits in your dream, it is asign of sickness ; if you seem to exorcise them, and they van¬ish, you will get over your difficulties.Eyes. If you dream you lose your eyes, some dear friendof yours will die ; if you dream you get new eyes, or morethan you should have of them, shows an increase of yourfamily. •Face. To dream that your face is swelled, indicates an aug¬mentation of wealth and honour; but if it grows pale andi emaciated, you will be severely disappointed ; a black face is: a sign of death.Fall. To dream you fall from a tree, or any high place,i denotes loss of place and goods ; if in love, it indicates thatyou will never marry the object of your affections. To thei tradesman it denotes decline of business; and to the sailori storms and shipwreck.Feasting. To dream you are at a feast denotes that you willi meet with many disappointments, particularly in the thing( which you are most anxious about; in love, it forebodes muchi uneasiness between sweethearts ; and to them who are mar-; ried, it foretells undutiful children, with many heavy losses.Fever. To dream you are in a fever betokens long goodI health ; if you have a leg amputated, you are about to get ai partner with money ; if you are married, it is the loss of one[ you fondly love.Fields. To dream you are in green fields is a very favour-t able sign ; in love, it denotes success and happiness; to thetradesman, success and riches ; and to the farmer, plenty; it» you are soliciting a favour, it portends you will obtain it.Figs are the forerunners of prosperity and happiness, suc-s cess in love, increase of trade, and a legacy from a rich1 friend.Fighting. To dream you are fighting denotes much opposi-1 tion to your wishes, with loss of character ; to the lover, that' you will lose the object of your affections through a foolishi quarrel. After such a dream I would advise the dreamer to| quit his present situation, because such a dream indicates that10he will not prosper in it; to the sailor it denotes storms andshipwreck, with disappointment in love.Finger. If you cut your finger and the blood runs, you willget money where you least expect it: if you do not see anyblood, you will have a quarrel or law-suit for money whichyou paid before.Fire. To dream of fire denotes health and happiness; tolovers, marriage with the object of their affections, andmany children ; also that you will be angry with some onefor a trifle. To dream of burning lights portends dreadfulaccidents to the dreamer. If a sick person sees a fire extin¬guished, it is a presage of death. If a person on hoard a shipdreams he sees a light a great way off, it betokens a fair windand a safe arrival. To dream of seeing lighted torches andbranches of fire descending from heaven, signifies quarrelling,disappointment, and adversities. To dream you see a firesparkling denotes hasty news and anger ; to dream of seeinghouses on fire denotes some unpleasant news will soon arrive ;to dream you are in the midst of a fire, and feel pain from it,presages envy and displeasure. To dream that you hold alighted torch in your hand shows you will gain honour andrespect from all persons. To dream that you kindle a firewithout much trouble, and it burns directly, shows that yourchildren will be fortunate ; hut if you kindle a fire with muchtrouble, and it is extinguished presently, shows dishonour,especially to women. To dream you see a ship on fire at sea,denotes great losses in business.Fishing. To dream you are fishing is a sign of sorrow andtrouble ; if you catch any fish, you will be successful in loveand business; if they slip out of your hand after you havecaught them, it is asign some pretended friend will deceive you.Flowers. To dream you are gathering flowers is a very fa¬vourable omen, and is a sign you will thrive in every thing youundertake ; that you will be successful in love, marry happily,and have beautiful children.Flying. To dream you are flying foretells elevation of for¬tune, dignity in the state, and happiness. If iu love, yoursweetheart will be true to you, and if you marry you will havemany children.Fortune. To dream you make a sudden fortune is a badomen; to the tradesman, it forebodes losses in trade, quar¬relling with his creditors, and loss of liberty; to the loverdisappointment.Friend. To dream you see a friend dead betokens hastynews, of a joyous nature; if you are in love, it foretells aspeedy marriage with the object of your affections.11Fruit. To dream of fruit has a different interpretation, ac¬cording to what the fruit is that you dream of. The variouskinds of fruit are given under their respective names.Funeral. To dream you are busily employed in burying aperson denotes a very speedy marriage, and that, ere long,you will hear of the death or imprisonment of some near rela¬tion or esteemed friend.Gallows. To dream of the gallows is a most fortunate omen;it shows that the dreamer will become rich, and arrive atgreat honours; to the lover it shows the consummation of hismost sanguine wishes; for a womaq with child to dream ofthe gallows, signifies that she is pregnant of a son, have agood time, and that the fruit of her womb will become veryrich.Garden. To dream you are walking in a garden denotesyour advancement to fortune ; if you are gathering the pro¬duce of it, you will be happy in marriage, and have a largefamily; it betokens great success to the lover, and increase ofbusiness to the tradesman.Geese. To dream of geese is a sign of good; you may expectto see an absent friend soon; to the dreamer, they denotesuccess and riches.Gifts. To dream you have any thing given to you is a signthat some good is about to happen to you, or that you willbe speedily married.Glass. To dream of glass denotes bad success in variousundertakings; if you break it, it warns you of some unfore¬seen misfortune, the death of your wife, or husband, or chil¬dren.Gold. If you dream of gold, it is a very good omen; itdenotes success in your present undertakings after encounter¬ing numerous difficulties.Gooseberries. To dream of gooseberries denotes that youwill have a numerous family, chiefly sons, and great successin your present undertakings.Grapes. To dream of white grapes betokens felicity in mar¬riage, and success in trade; but if they are purple, it denotesgreat misery in the matrimonial state; to the tradesman,great distress and loss of business.Grave. To dream of a grave foretells sickness and disappointment. If you are in love, depend you will never marryyour present sweetheart; if you go into the grave, it showsyou will experience a loss of property, and that false friendswill defame you; if you come out of the grave it denotessuccess in your undertakings, that you will rise in the worldand become very rich ; and if you are in love, that you willspccjdiiy many your sweetheart; if you take another out ofthe grave, you will he the means of saving the life of a per¬son, who will be a great friend to you, and receive someunexpected legacy.Guns. To dream you see or hear guns firing foretells muchmisery ; if you fire them, you will have a quarrel; if they aredischarged at you, you will be exposed to many dangers.Hail. To dream of hail denotes sorrow and much grief.Hair. To dream that you are brushing or combing yourhair portends success in love, trade, or some other pursuit;it also signifies riches ; to dream that your hair has grown solong that it hangs loose over your shoulders, denotes that onesuperior to yourself adores you; but if the hair is red, itdenotes that yrou have enemies.Hanging. Dreaming you see people hanged, or that you areto be executed yourself, is a sign you will rise above yourpresent condition by marriage.Harrows. To dream you see white horses in the harrows isa sure sign of good news; if they are black, deep distress willbefall you, as your lover will forsake you for another.Hatred. Dreaming of being hated by friends or foes is abad omen.Hay. To dream that you are making hay, and the sun shin¬ing, denotes great prosperity to you as a lover; if married,riches and honour await you ; but if the sun is under.a cloud,and the rest of the workers are taking their ease, it is a suresign that you will get a husband—but you will have to workfor him.Hills. To dream of climbing up hills show's you will over¬come many troubles, and at last be very rich; likewise thatyou will have rivals in love.Horses. To dream of horses is very lucky; if you dreamthat you see white horses they denote speedy news; if theyare black, you may expect to hear of the death of an acquain¬tance.House. To dream of building a house denotes success intrade ; if in love, that your sweetheart is good tempered andfaithful, and will make yon very happy. To dream yourhouse is burnt down denotes much trouble and many difficul¬ties, with the loss of goods and reputation. To dream yousee your house on fire foretells hasty news, and that you willlose a near relationHunting. To dream you are hunting a fox, and that he iskilled, shows much trouble through the pretensions of falsefriends, but that you will discover them, and overcome alltheir machinations; if you are hunting a hare, yon will be13disappointed in your favourite object, be what it may; hunt¬ing a stag, if he is caught alive, denotes good to the dreamer,and that he will be successful in all his present undertak¬ings.Ice.. To dream you are sliding or skating upon ice showsyou will be engaged in some imaginary pursuit that will eludeyou ; if the ice breaks, you may be certain of sickness.Infants. Dreaming of infants denotes ill health and trouble ;if they are playing, you may then expect to receive great sat¬isfaction from a distant land.Iron. To dream you are hurt with iron shows you willreceive some injury.Key. To dream of losing your key betokens displeasure; tofind one, an addition to your family; to give one, is marriage jto receive one, the birth of a child.King or Queen. To dream about the king or queen, or anyof the royal family, betokens disappointment, excepting themonths in which there is not an R, when it is a sign of greathonour and prosperity.Kissing. To dream you kiss a pretty maid indicates good ;if she consents without any resistance she will be true to herlover; to dream you kiss a married woman, and she consents,is a sign of sorrow and poverty; and that you will be unsuc¬cessful in your present undertakings ; it usually means deceit.Knife. To dream you give a knife to your intended showsyou will lose him or her.Ladder. To dream you climb a ladder denotes that you willarrive at great honours ; it also betokens a happy marriage,and many children.Laurel. A wife to dream she smells a laurel tree shows shewill have children; if a maid, she will be soon married to himwhom she loves.Letter. To dream of receiving a letter betokens a present;if you send one, you will relieve a person in bad circum¬stances.Lice. To dream of lice is a sure sign of sickness to those insingle life ; but riches to those in the married state.Light. To dream you see a great light denotes that yonwill attain to great honours and become very rich,—in love,it shows a sweetheart of an amiable disposition, that you willmarry well, have children, and be very happy; if the lightdisappears all of a sudden, it betokens a great change in yourpresent situation, much for the worse.Linen. To dream you are dressed in clean linen denotesi that you will shortly receive some glad tidings,—that yoursweetheart is faithful, and will marry you, and that you will14be successful in all your present undertakings. If it is dirtyit denotes poverty, a prison, and disappointment in love, withthe loss of something valuable.Mad. To dream of being mad is very good; it promiseslong life, riches, happy marriage, and good children.Magpie. To dream that you see a magpie on a tree withoutleaves is a sure sign of sorrow; two is the sign of great mirth ;three, the sign of a splendid wedding; and four, the sign of death.Marriage. To dream you are married signifies the death ofyourself or some near relation ; to dream you assist at awedding denotes pleasant news and great success; to dreamof lying with your husband or wife threatens danger or suddenmisfortunes.Meat. To dream of raw meat denotes trouble of a verysevere description; if it is boiled, it betokens plenty of workto the tradesman, and great plenty to the family of the la¬bourer ; to the lover it denotes a happy union.Men. Married persons dreaming that they see men at workin their fields, and the sun shining, denotes that they will liveat their ease, and have numerous servants ; if the held is notyours it denotes that you will have to endure great trials.Mice. To dream of mice denotes success in love and a happvunion.Milk. If yon dream of milk it promises great news ; if yousee it flowing from a woman’s breast, foretells happiness inyour family and success in trade.Money. To dream of getting money denotes great successin all your lawful undertakings.Moon. To dream you see the moon darkened denotes sick¬ness and death ; if you see it in the shape of a full white face,it indicates to the virgin a speedy marriage ; to the wife, thatshe will have a beautiful daughter; if the husband dreams it,the child will be a son; to handsome and pretty women it isa good sign to see a full moon, but not so to ugly ones.Mother. To dream you see your mother, is a certain prog¬nostic of some agreeable adventure being about to happen toyou, and that you will hear from a friend at a distance. Todream you see your mother dead forebodes trouble and adver¬sity, and that you will become very poor.Mulberries. To dream of mulberries betokens constancy andaffection in the married state ; to travellers and sailors, pros¬perous journeys and voyages; to the lover, it denotes a speedyunion with his sweetheart.Music. To dream you hear delicious music denotes joyfulnews from a long absent friend ; but if the notes are discordant,trouble, vexation, and disappointment are sure to follow15Myrtle. To dream of the myrtle denotes a wanton woman ;beware, then, with whom you keep company.Nails. To dream your nails are growing long is very good,and denotes riches, prosperity, and happiness, great success inlove, a good industrious husband or wife, with dutiful children;it also foretells that you will suddenly receive a sum of moneythat will be of great use to you.Nakedness. To dream of nakedness denotes scandal; if yousee a naked female, it is lucky—it denotes that honours awaityou at no very distant period.News. To dream you receive news from a distant friend,who is on his death-bed, is good ; a person is at hand to be¬friend you. If you are married it betokens an addition toyour family.Nightingales. To dream of the nightingale is the forerunnerof fire, or thieves by night. If unmarried, a sweet, good-tem¬pered lover. For a married woman to dream she hears thissweet warbler sing, shows that she will have children who willhave the gift of singing, but will be in the habit of staying uplate at night.Night. To dream you are travelling by night foretells greatvexation.Nosegays. To dream of gathering and making nosegays isunlucky, showing that our best hopes shall wither as flowersdo in a nosegay.Nuts. Dreaming of gathering nuts denotes that you willspend your time in pursuit of a trifling object, when youmight employ it to better advantage.Oak. To dream that you see the stately oak is a sign oflong life, riches, and great felicity.Oats. If you dream of sowing oats it foretells that you willhave a partner who will squander all you possess ; but if youassist in the sowing, then you will be consulted in all thingsbefore the money is spent, so beware of extravagance; ruinis before you if you do not act prudently.Old Women. For a man to dream he is courting an oldwoman, and that she returns his love, is a very fortunateomen ; it prefigures success in worldly concerns,—that he willmarry a beautiful young woman, have lovely children, and bevery happy.Onions. To dream of this useful vegetable denotes a mixtureof good and bad luck; if you are eating them, you will receivesome money, recover some lost or stolen things, or discoversome hidden treasure; your sweetheart will be faithful, butof a cross temper; it also denotes attack from thieves', and afailure of crops ; it shows that you will be engaged in some10disagreeable quarrel, perhaps with your own family; if youare throwing onious away, it it the forerunner of mischief andquarrels ; if you arc in love, you will fall out with your sweet¬heart ; if you are in trade, you will quarrel with your custo¬mers and servants; if you are gathering onions it betokensthe recovery of some sick person of your family ; the receiptof some unexpected news of a joyful kind, and a speedy re¬moval from your present situation.Oranges. To dream you are eating oranges implies thatyour feelings will be wounded, and may expect great grieffrom a quarter you little expect.Oven. To dream you see an oven foretells that you areabout to be separated from your family by changing your pre¬sent residence ; it shows you an attack by thieves in some byeplace, and also that your sweetheart is of a roving disposition,little likely to make you happy.Oxen. If you dream that you see white oxen it shows vir¬tuous inclinations ; to see fat or lean oxen signifies presentgain or misfortunes.Oysters. To dream of eating oysters foretells prosperity, andthat you will be married to a lady who is really a virgin, andwho will love you; but if you should let them fall, you willJose the affections of the lady, for she is betrothed to another,and will speedily be married.Palm. To dream you are gathering of palm denotes plenty,riches, and success in undertakings, and is a very good omenindeed ; to a married woman, it is a certain token of her bear¬ing children ; to a maid it foretells a sudden marriage withthe youth she loves, that she will have many children by him,and that she will live very happy in the married state.Paper. To dream of paper is a good omen ; if it is quiteclean, you will be very successful in your undertakings, marrythe person you love, have good and dutiful children, and bevery happy ; if it is dirty and scribbled upon, then it showstemporary want, and some unpleasant altercation ; if it isplainly written, you will receive hasty news of a good nature,make an advantageous bargain, and obtain some money by alegacy ; if it appears rumpled and carelessly folded up, itshows that some difficulties will occur which will give youmuch pain ; if it is neatly folded, you will obtain your favour¬ite dish, be what it may.Path. To dream vo . are walking in an easy path shows thatyou will be successful love; or, if you are married, you willobtain what you now rush for.Peaches. When you dream of peaches, if you are in diffi¬culties some one will befriend you ; if you arc sick, you willl17soon get better; if misfortune has been a visitor, fortune willdispel it, and you will have much wealth ; to the lover it de¬notes great joy in the married life, and a numerous family.Peacock. To dream of this beautiful bird denotes great suc¬cess in trade ; to a man, a beautiful wife, much riches, and agood place ; to a maid, a good and rich husband ; to a widow,that she will be courted by one who will not be sincere.Pears. To dream of pears betokens elevation in life, greathonours and riches, love that knows no termination, and suc¬cess in every pursuit you may embark in.Pictures. To dream you are looking at beautiful picturesforeshows that you will be allured by false appearances intosome unprofitable concern, that you will waste your time onsome idle project, and that you will always be in pursuit ofhappiness without attaining it; in love it denotes great plea¬sure in the enjoyment of the beloved object, it promises ahandsome wife, a good husband, and beautiful children.Pigeons. To dream you see a pigeon flying, and that afeather drops, signifies you will soon receive a letter from yoursweetheart; to drop from any other bird, is a letter of busi¬ness. To dream of pigeons flying is hasty news of a happynature, and of constancy in lovers.Pit. To dream of falling into a deep pit shows that somevery heavy misfortune is about to attend you, that your sweet¬heart is false, and prefers another; to a sailor it forebodessome sad disaster at the next port you touch at. To dreamyou are in a pit, and that you climb out of it without muchtrouble, foreshows that you will have many enemies, and ex¬perience much trouble, but that you will overcome them, andsurmount your difficulties, marry well, and become rich ; to asailor it denotes that he will experience shipwreck, and be caston a foreign shore, where he will be hospitably received, fallin love, marry a rich and handsome wife, quit the sea, and liveat ease on the shore.Play. To dream you are at play betokens great happinessin the married state, and increase of business.Plough. To dream you are following the plough, and thatwhite horses are in the yoke, it foretells speedy news; if thehorses are black, deep distress, and often death.Plums. There cannot be a worse dream than that of plums—they are the forerunner of ill-luck to the husbandman, thesoldier, the sailor, the tradesman, the statesman, the sports¬man, and the lovers who were under promise of marriage.Purse. Dreaming that you find a pnrse betokens great andunexpected prosperity, a speedy and happy marriage; if youlose your purse, you will assist at a friend’s funeral13Quarrel. If you dream you are quarrelling, it shows greathappiness and contentment.Racing. To dream you are running a race is a token of good,presages much success in life, and that you will speedily hearsome very joyful news ; in love, itdenotes that you will conquerall your rivals, and be very happy in the union with the ob¬ject of your affections. To dream you are riding a race showsdisappointment and anger, bad success in trade and in love ;to a married woman it denotes the loss of her husband's affec¬tions, and that her children will be in trouble.Railway Train. To dream that you are in a railway fourthclass carriage, between two men, is a positive sign that goodfortune awaits you; if in the third class, and a lady sits onyour left hand, beware of an enemy; if in the second class,with your back to the engine, there is something good await¬ing you; but if your face is to the engine, you may expectgreat grief in consequence of your sweetheart making love toanother. If you are in the first class, and the passengersspeak to you, you will be exalted to rank, and heir an estate;but if they don’t speak, trouble awaits you.Rain. If you behold rain in your dream it promises successin a love affair; in all other respects it betokens trouble andvexation.Rainbow. To dream you see a rainbow foretells sudden andagreeable news, and probably a long journey.Raspberries. To dream of raspberries denotes great happi¬ness and success; to the husbandman, an abundant crop ; tothe tradesman, great wealth ; to the soldier, a complete vic¬tory ; to the sailor, a prosperous voyage; to the lover, a quickand happy marriage; and to the forsaken, an unexpectedreturn of the runaway.Rats. If you are attacked by rats and get the better of them,it shows that some person will vainly try to do you harm ; butif the rats tear or force you to run away, expect some greatmisfortune to befall you.Ravens or Crows. To dream you see a crow or raven beto¬kens great mischief; it shows falsehood in love.Ribbon. To dream you wear ribbons shows an entanglementin love to the single, and extravagant children to the mar¬ried.Riding. To dream you are riding, if it be with a horse, isvery unfortunate ; expect to be crossed in love ; if you are intrade, business will decay, and you will be very near bank¬ruptcy; if you are a sailor it denotes perfidy in your sweet¬heart, and loose conduct with one of your shipmates; but ifif be with him, then expect the reverse of these things will19happen, and that yon will obtain a sum of money by somespeculation of which you ha\e but an indifferent opinion.Rings. To dream you have a ring on your finger denotesmarriage with the person you love; but if the ring drops oftiit betokens death to a near friend.River. Dreaming that you see river-water clear indicateshappiness and success in life, constancy in love, the winningof a law-suit, and a speedy and pleasant voyage.Rocks. A good dream for those going into business, as itshows stability therein.Rods. To dream you are whipt with rods denotes that youwill meet with a perfidious friend, who will go very near to! ruin you; it also betokens you being shortly at a merry-mak-; ing, where you must be careful of quarreling ; if you do, itwill turn out to your disadvantage; in love it denotes youri sweetheart to be of a fickle disposition, and little calculated. to make you happy.Roses. To dream of these flowers in season is a sure token( of happiness and success ; but if these be out of season, ite indicates distress, sickness, and disappointment; in love, they1 denote that your sweetheart is true, and that you will be mar-1 ried, and have many children.Sailing. To dream you are sailing in a ship, and the water1 smooth, shows you will succeed in all your undertakings; if1 you sail in a small boat, and gain the desired haven, you will; gain great riches.Sea. To dream you are walking on the sea is good to him? who would take a wife, for he shall enjoy her.Sheep. To dream of sheep denotes success in life, faithful-it ness in love, and comfort in the evening of life; to the trades-u man, it foretells increase of business ; to the sailor, that hisa next voyage will be pleasant and lucrative, and his sweetheartb kind and true. To dream you see them dispersing shows thati< pretended friends are endeavouring to do you injury.Shoes. To dream you have a pair of shoes denotes successu in life; in love-matters, they signify marriage, which will turni out an equal advantage to both parties.Silk. To dream you are clothed in silk signifies honour.'! To dream that you trade with a stranger in silk denotes profitm and joy.Silver. To dream of silver shows that yon have false friends,who will attempt your ruin; in love, it denotes that youri sweetheart is false, and that he is engaged to another.Singing. To dream that you are singing betokens somei melancholy news; if you are unwell, it shows a speedy re-r covery; if in prison, you will soon be set free.■■■I20Sky. If you dream the sky is clear you will be successful inyour enterprises ; if soliciting any place of preferment, youwill obtain it; if in love, you will marry the object of youraffections ; have you a law-suit ? you will gain it; are you intrade ? it will flourish and be profitable; are you a farmer ?good crops, &c., will attend you : are you married ?• you willhave many children, and they will be dutiful and do well; areyou about to undertake a journey ? it will answer your utmostexpectations ; are you going to sea ? you will have a pleasantand prosperous voyage ; are you in debt ? you will speedilybe able to pay it. To dream that the sky is full of thick,dark clouds, is an unfavourable token,—you will fall sick,and perhaps die—disappointments will attend your business.Snow. To dream you see the ground covered with snow isa very good dream ; to a young man, it shows he will marrya virgin, and have a large family.Soldiers. To dream of soldiers shows trouble, persecutions,and law-suits; if they pursue you, it shows that you will bedisliked by your rich neighbours.Spit. To dream you are in a kitchen turning a spit is theforerunner of troubles and misfortunes; expect to be robbed,to lose your trade, to become very poor, and that your friendswill desert you ; if you are in love, it shows the object of youraffections to be of a bad temper, lazy, and doomed to misfor¬tunes and poverty.Sprats. To dream of sprats denotes that you will have alarge family of children. If you dream of cooking them, yourchildren will give yon a great deal of trouble.Squirrel. To dream of a squirrel shows that enemies areendeavouring to slander your reputation; to the lover, itshows your sweetheat is of a bad temper, and much given todrinking; if you have a law-suit, it will surely be decidedagainst you; if in trade, sharpers will endeavour to defraudyou; and you will quarrel with your principal creditor.Starching. To dream you are starching of linen shows youwill he married to an industrious person, and that you will bosuccessful in life, and save money ; it also shows that you areabout to receive a letter containing some pleasant news. !Stars. To dream you behold the stars shining very brightis success to the lover, and glad news from a far country ; ifthey fall, it denotes health and happiness.Steam-Boat. To dream you are aboard of a steamer, and thesea is boisterous, denotes that your lover and you will quarrel;but if the sea is calm, it is a sign of a speedy marriage tothe .ftigle; to the married, it denotes great success in somefavourite speculation.21Strawberries denote riches by trade, happiness by marriage,male children, and generally a successful issue in all yourundertakings.Sun. To dream yon see the sun shining denotes accumula¬tion of wealth, and filling posts of honour in the State.Swans denote happiness in marriage, and many children,who will by industry become ricli.Sweetheart. To dream of your sweetheart leaving you andgoing with another, is a very good dream ; it shows that hewill prove a faithful friend and a loving husband; if you seea female taking hold of his arm, beware of a rival.Swimming. To dream that you are swimming with your headabove the water shows that you will succeed in your under¬takings, whatever they may be ; to dream that you” head isunder water shows great trouble, disappointment in love, andthat you will hear some unpleasant news from an individualyou thought was dead.Swine. To dream you see swine feeding is a very bad dream;it is a sure token of bodily distress to tha 'reamer; but if onedrives them away, it betokens a speedy recovery from sick¬ness.Tavern. To dream you are feasting with friends in a tavernsignifies great joy and comfort to you and yours.Tea. To dream of drinking tea is a certain sign that someindividuals are speaking ill of you, to prevent your union withyour lover; if it is sweet, and neither milk nor cream in it,their malice is inveterate; but if there is cream or milk, andno sugar in it, as soon as you are joined in wedlock, a personwill befriend you with money whom you little thought of; butbeware of him !Teeth. To dream of losing your teeth show's the loss ofsome friend by death, and that great trouble is about to ac¬company you.Tempest. To dream you are overtaken by a storm denotesthat you will, after numberless hardships, arrive at happiness,and that you will become rich, and marry a good-naturedlady. If in love, you will have many rivals, but will triumphover them. If you have friends abroad you will have goodnews from them.Thirst. If any one dreams his thirst is quenched with clearwater he will live very jovially, and become very wealthy ; ifthe w'ater be troubled, lukewarm, stinking, and dirty, he willend his days in sickness and affliction.Thunder and Lightning. To dream of thunder or lightningdenotes gain in your business but if it hurts you, it is a signof some calamity. .22Toads. To dream yon destroy a toad denotes that yon willdiscover a thief in whom you placed great trust.Trees. To dream of trees in blossom denotes a happy mar¬riage with the object of your affections, and many children,who will all do well; to the tradesman it denotes success inbusiness, and to the sailor pleasant and lucrative voyages. Todream you are climbing trees denotes that you will make afortune, and rise to honours in the State. To dream you arecutting down trees foretells heavy losses, and the death of anear relation or friend.Trumpet. To dream that you hear the sound of a trumpetdenotes troubles and misfortunes; to the lover, inconstancyin the object of his affections.Urns. To dream of urns in a churchyard is the sign of thedeath Of a sailor or soldier belonging to your family.Vessel. To dream you are in a sailing vessel, with the cap¬tain at the helm, denotes that you will have a careful partner;if you are married, you will rise to honour and respectability.Walking. To dream of walking in a dirty place foretellssickness and vexation to the lover; it also denotes your sweet¬heart to be of a bad temper, and inconstant.Walls. If you dream of walking on weak and narrow walls,you are sure to undertake some bold and dangerous enter¬prise ; if you come down without hurt, you will succeed ; ifthe walls fall after you, you will be disappointed.Water. To dream of drinking water shows trouble andadversity; to the lover it denotes that your sweetheart is false,prefers another, and will never marry you.Wedding. To dream of a wedding is very unfavourable tolovers ; it denotes sickness or death of some friend or relation.Wheat. To dream of a field of wheat denotes great pros¬perity and riches; in love, it augurs a completion of yourwishes, and foretells much happiness, with fine children, whenyou marry ; if you have a law-suit, you will gain it, and youwill be successful in all your undertakings.Women. If you dream of meeting women on a road, eachcarrying a bundle, there is some mischief about to happen toyou; if they are empty-handed, and joking away to eachother, it is a sign that you will be asked to a company offriends, but beware that you are not entangled with some ofthe. fair sex. If you see a woman on her knees, beware, for avixen would fain have you.Wood. If you dream of cutting wood, you will be happy inyour family circle, and attain much honour and riches. Todream you are carrying wood on your back shows you willrise to affluence by industry and perseverance.. rwt i rtfi23Wool. To dream you are buying or selling wool foretellsgain in business by means of industry and perseverance; totbe lover, it is a sign your sweetheart is of an amiable dispo¬sition, very constant, and deeply in love with you.Writing. When dreaming of writing a letter to your sweet¬heart, if you put it in the post, you will have a pleasing return )but to trust it into other hands, shows that your secrets willbe exposed.Yellow. To dream of yellow colour denotes great trouble tothe married woman from a female friend, and the loss of herhusband’s affections ; to the lover it signifies he will marry avirgin.Yellow-hammer. To dream of a yellow-hammer denotes, tothe young and single, that they t^ill certainly be united inwedlock to the object of their choice before the expirationthe next summer.Yew-tree. To dream of a yew-tree foretells the funeral of ar very aged person, by whose death the dreamer will become(rich, or receive a protecting hand from the relations of thedeceased. ufiatbeYoke. To dream you are bearing a yoke denotes danger; ifi it be a female, she will be willing to obey her husband, andr will govern her family with prudence and care,.Young. To dream that you are young foretells peace, de-[ light, and great happiness.Zealander. To dream you see an Indian in his native dress,6 shows, to a man, he will travel, and to a woman, she will wedis a foreigner. To dream you see an Indian female, predicts, toh a man, that he will wed a rich widow, and to a woman, thatr she will have a son wrho -will raise himself to great power andS honour in the Indies, and bring wealth and honour to his|l kindred.THE PHILOSOPHY OF DREAMS.Dr. Cantor delivered a lecture a short time since, in theo course of which he mentioned some curious circumstances re-u specting dreams. He said that the succession of ideas whichif had passed through our minds when awake, were rememberedb and recalled during sleep, and that was what was calledo dreaming. Dreams generally took place when the circulation0 of the blood was impeded. Our memory was much more dis-1 tinct and strong when we dreamed than when we were awake.24It was because, when we were asleep, the association of theideas went on without being disturbed or counteracted, andthere was no controlling power over it. He would say a few•words about the most extraordinary of all classes of dreams,namely, prophetic dreams, in which the future is revealed tothe dreamer. They were all acquainted with the facts con¬nected with the death of Mr. Percival, the Prime Minister.When that statesman was still alive, a gentleman in the coun¬try, of the name of Williams, dreamed that he was standingin the lobby of the House of Commons, and saw Mr. Percevalenter, and instantly a man levelled a pistol at him. ' Mr. Wil¬liams told his wife, who thought little of it, and his friendscalled him a fanatic. A week after, however, the news ar¬rived that Mr Perceval had been murdered in the very sameway the gentleman had dreamed. A very remarkable instancehad occurred to the late Sir John Stuart. When young, andill of the typhus fever, he dreamed of a dark-haired and dark¬eyed young lady, with whom he fell in love. Years afterwardshe went to the Continent, and there met with the identicalparty, and it was to her care that he owed the complete re¬storation of his health; and he married her. There was agreat number of such dreams recorded. The ancients paidgreat attention to dreams. A decree was published underAugustus, as commanding every one who had dreamed adream, to report the same to the government. It was certainthat the mind possessed sometimes in dreams an a prioriknowledge which was highly remarkable. It was sometimesthe same just the moment before death. There was indeedScriptural authority in favour of dreams. But the fulfilmentof dreams was by no means astonishing, generally speaking.