THBHISTORY/T-. OF -FORTUNATUS:SETTING FORTHHis Birth, Life, Travels, and Adventures inmost Parts of the \Vorld: how the LadyFortune appeared to him, and give him arich Purse that never wanted Money: andalso, in his T ravels, how he got from theSoldon a wishing Hat, that by putting it onbis Head, he could convey himself imme¬diately into whatever Tiace be desired.With an AccountHow Fortunatus on his Death-bed, declaredto his two sons, Ampedo and Andolicia,the Virtue of his Purse and Hat.The Lady Fortune gave such a Purse in' Spain,, ■JVhen’it was empty, straight ’tims full again.GLASGOW:Published and Sold Wholesale and Retail, byR. Hwt^hison & Co. 10,Saltmarket.theIII S T O 11 YOFFORT U NATO S.C H A P. I. •Vf the Birth /)f FORTUNATUS.IN the famous,isle of Cyprus, there isa stately city, called Famagosta, whereonce lived a wealthy noble citizen nam¬ed Theodoras, who was left by his re¬lations in great riches: Fie being leftyoung by his parents, addicted himselfto all manner of pleasures and pastime,often frequenting princes’ courts, wherehe soon spent great part of his wealth inriotous living, to the grief of his friendsand relations, who thinking to makehim leave these courses, determined tomarry him to a noble and rich citizen’sdaughter named Gratlans, and by con¬sent of'both parties he was married toher; and in a sumptuous manner thewedding was kept with great feasting.Theodorus taking his spouse home, liv-THE HISTORY OE, &c. ' 3ed vHth her ve^y virtuously for a time,to the content of both their relations.In a year after this marriage, Gratianawas brought to bed of a son, \VKb waschristened Fortunatus. Theodorus, in alittle time, began to follow his formerbad courses, insomuch, that he beganto sell and mortgage mosr part of hisland, till at last he wasted all his estate,so he fell into such extreme poverty thatthey were not able to keep any servants;Gratiana being forced to dress her ownmeat and wash her clothes herself. The-todorus and his wife, sitting at a poordinner, and the father beholding hisson, could hardly refrain from weeping;which when his son perceived, beingthen eighiem years old, and was expertin hunting, hawking, and playing onthe lute, which was his chief pastime,he spoke to his father and said. Dear-father, what aileth you? for 1 observe,that when you behold me, you seemsack Sir, have I any ways offended you.His father answered, Dear son, thou artnot the cause of my grief, but myselfis the cause of my pinching poverty Iam brought to, when I call to mind thegreat wealth and honour I lately enjoy-4 THE HISTORY OFed, and when I consider how unable Iam to succour thee, my only child, thisit is that vexeth me day .and night, andthose familiars that I spent my goodson, now slight me and refrain my com¬pany. To this Fortunatus answered,beloved father, do not take such im¬moderate care for me, I am young andStrong, I will travel, into far countriesand try my fortune; I hope in God, Ishall be preferred; I have not been sobadly brought up, but I can shift formyself. Upon this, Fortunatus wentfjom his fat her’s house with a hawk on^his fist, travelling towards the sea side,pondering with himself, that being ab¬sent from his father’s sight, he mightnot be grieved thereby; and as hewalked by the sea side, he espied a gal¬ley of Venice, wherein was an Earl ofFlanders, who had lost two of his men,wishing within himself that he couldbe entertained in the Earl’s service,that he might be rid of the country ofCyprus; with that he stept forth, andmaking a low obedience to the Earl,he said, I understand most noble Lord,you have lost two of your men, there*fore I desire (if you please) to be en«FORTUN ATUS. 5terikined in vourvservice. Thou likest4me well, answered the Earl; whatwages shall I give thee? For unafussaid, I desire no wagesT but to be re¬warded according to my deserts, i hesewords pleased the Ea’d, they soon a-greed, and so sailed to Venice.CHAP. II.Iloxso Foriunatm sailed away with theEarl, without the knowledge oj hisFather and Mother.nr^HE Earl was now returned home,and joyfully received of his sub¬jects, for he was very affable, just andvirtuous, and the other of his neigh¬bours welcomed him home. Presentlyafter his return, he married the dukeof Cleve’s daughter, who was a fairtmdbeauteous lady; Fortunatus havingbought for the wedding, at Venice, se¬veral costly jewels, garments of velvetsilk, and cloth of gold. To the weddingresorted many lords of great estates,with many valiant knights and gentle¬men, mounted on stately horses, tiltand tourney before the noble ladiesthere present, and as there-was no small&fTHE HISTORY OFnumber of proper and comely gen¬tlemen to attend at the wedding, yetwas none so recommended for theirbehaviour as Fortunatus. After thenobles had finished their triumphsand jovial games, the duke of Cleves,the bride and bridegroom agreedto let their servants try their man-hoop at several pastimes, for two richjewels, estimated at a hundred crowns,and he that obtained the prize shouldhave them, which made all the servantsglad, every one, striving to do his best,so that the duke of Burgundy’s servant■won one, and Fortunatus, the other;which displeased the other servants:upon this they desired the Duke’s ser¬vant to challenge Fortunatus to fighthim before all the ladies, whom shouldhave both, which challenge was soonaccepted of by Fortunatus; and comingto the tilt yard, they encountered eachother very briskly, till at last Fortunatushoisted the duke’s servant off his horse,at his spear’s length, whereupon he wonthe victory and obtained the jewels,which encreased the envy of the otherservants, but rejoiced the Earl. Amongthe Earl’s servants, there was a craftyPORTUN A.TUS. told fellow, who consulted with the restof the servants, and agreed with themfor ten crowns, that he would soon!make Fortunatus depart of his own ac¬cord, and leave his lord, which sumthey soon paid him down, to accom¬plish which he soon insinuates himselfinto Fortunatus’s company, pretendinghim great friendship, treating himhighly at several great teasts of womenand -wine, also much praising his riches,nobility of birth, and valiant courage,and always paying the shot for Fortu¬natus, till at last he began to insinuatethat he would reveal a secret to himjthat his lord having conceived a greatjealousy of his chamberlains (of whomFortunatus was one) he had a designsecretly to have them gelded, whichwhen Fortunatus heard, he was muchstruck and "amazed, and therefore de¬sires this old fellow (Robert) to tell himhow he might convey himself awaywith speed out of the city undiscover¬ed: Robert was glad to hear of this,and answered, you know that the gatesof the city are shut, and there is no go¬ing out till morning. Then said For¬tunatus, I had rather wander as a va-Is THE HISTORY OFgabond, than to be so served. Thensaid Robert, I am sorry' that I told theeof these things, since I shall now losethy good'company. Fortunatns desiredRobert by all means to conceal his de¬parture, and then being in much trou¬ble of mind, he at break of day depart¬ed, taking his journey on horseback,with hounds following him, little mis¬trusting Robert’s treachery. WhenFortunatus had rode ten miles, hebought him another, and sent homethe Earl’s horse, with the hounds, thathe should have no occasion to pursuehim. But when the Earl understoodthat Fortunatus was departed withouthis leave, not knowing the cause, hewas offended, and so demanded of hisservants whether they knew any occa¬sion, \yhich they all denied: then hewent to the ladies and gentlewomen,and enquired of them if they knew anyoccasion of his departure, wdiich theysaid they did not. Then said the Earl,tho’ the cause of his departure is con¬cealed from me. yet I know that For¬tunatus is not fled without some causef r wh ch I shall sharply be revengedon them that were the cause thereof.FORTtJNATUS. 9When Robert understood that htslord was thus grieved ior the departureof Fortunatus, he was in fear lest heshould be discovered by some of the o,ther servants.Now leave we the Earl of Fe nders,who knew not how Robert had deceiv¬ed him concerning Fortunatus, atfollow our young hero in his travinto France, England, and other pai sof the world.«CHAP. ULOf the Travels of Fort:'>ia!us, after hehad left the Earl his \ I aster.Fortunatus having ent back hismasters horse travelled with allSpeed'to Calais, where he took shipping,thi king himself hardly -afe when inthe rnidst -f the sea til! he at last ar-rt ed in England. waere,: coming toL -ndon (chat great populous city) heat last met with s ane Cyprus mer¬chants, his o wn country nen, fwho riot¬ously spent their money in gaming andwenching, so that in half a year’s timethey wasted all their money. Fortuna-10 THE HISTORY OFtus having least, his spring was soonestdry; the rest had spent most of theirson ha^qm-ts and fair women. Fortu-natus being now moneyless, went togon e of his landladies v-here he hadspent his money, to borrow threecrowns, saying, that he would go in¬to Flanders and fetch four hundredtyowns, that was there in hi$ uncle’shand; but he was slighted, and theywould lend him none: he desired oneof his misses to trust him one quart ofwine, but she denied him, and bid herservants fetch a pint of small beer, tomake the ass drink ere lie went. For-tunatus took himself out of England,crossed the seas, and arrived in Piccar-dy in France. In travelling he passedthrough a wood, where he spent thewhole day, and being benighted, hesaw an old house; where he hoped tofind some relief, but there was nocreature in it. He spent the next dayin travelling from one wood to another,almost starved with hunger, and sittingdown by a fountain, (the moon shin¬ing clear) he heard a great noise in thewood, as the grunting of boars, whichmade him convey himself away, and' ; ■ I ytFORTUNATUS. 11get up into a tree near the 'fountain;the wild beasts having drank, one ofthem finding Fortunatus climbed upthe tree after him, where he was soreafraid; when he came near to him,Fortunatus drew his sword and struckthe bear, that he fell from the tree,and thrust his sword through him, andthen laying his mouth to the wound,sucked out his blood, and a little re¬freshed himself, and then laid himdown and slept by the bear until morn-ing.CHAP. IV.Hoty ihe Lady Fortune gave Fortunatusa purse that never 'wanted money.BUT as soon as Fortunatus awoke, hesaw standing before him a fair andbeauteous Lady muffled over the ey^es;whereupon he said, I beseech thee sweetvirgin, for the love of God, to assist me,that I may come out of this wood, forthese three days have 1 travelled with¬out meat: then demanded she of himwhat countryman he was, he answered,I am of the isle of Cyprus, and povertyhath constrained me to wander to* seekmy fortune. She said, fear not Fortu-12 - -THE HISTORY OFnatus, I am the Goddess Fortune, andby the influence of the heavens andstars are given me stxpo vers, of whichI bestow on thee one or more accordingto divine permission, they are Wisdom,Riches, Strength, Health, Beauty andlong Lite, chuse one of these quickly.Fortunatus made no longer stav% butsaid, then I desire Riches and Plenty,that I may never wan: so long as I live;with that she gave him a purse, andsaid. Receive this same of me, and inwhar country thou art in, as often asthou shah pur thv hand thetein, thoushalt draw Forth ten pieces of gold ofthe same nation's coin; and this purseshad retain its virtue as long as thoulivest, and thy own children or any o*thers, during their life, therefore e-steem it accordingly,' and take specialcare thereof.Forrunatus returned her many thanksfor her kindness to him. She said to himreturn thanks to the giver of all good'gift . and of thy riches bestow it on thepoor and needy. Then said Fortuna-tus,'thiol will willingly perform to theu ost of uiy power. Then she bid himfollow her, and she conveyed him out.FORTUNATUS.13of the wood, when he espied an inn,where men usually refresh themcelves,then she vanhh d our of his sight: butbefore1 he entered the inn, he tried thepurse, and drew forth ten crowns,whereof he was grad, and joyfully re¬galed himself in the inn, and called formeat, and said he would content themfor it, for he was hungry; so his host- soon furnished hi- table.Now when For tu. atus had sufficient¬ly staid his hunger and- thirst, and rest¬ed himself some days, he dischargedhis host to the full contentment, anddeparted.HoK) Fortunatus haying several greathorses, wkicTym Earl before had priz¬ed, was taken prisoner, and strictlyexamined concerning the purse."'WO miles from this wood, was alittle town and a castle, wheredwelt an Earl that owned the wood :Fortunatus took up his lodging in thebest inn, and asked the host, if he couldwish him to some good horses, of whichthe Earl had chosen three, and offered300 crowns for them, but it was re-'CHAP V.14 THE HISTORY OFfused. Fortunatus went into his cham¬ber and took out of his purse 600crowns, and bid his host send for themerchant to bring his horses to him.The host supposed he had been in jest,seeing him so meanly apparelled: Atlength he brought him to the merchant,and liking the horses, he bought twoof those the Earl had cheapened, andgave 300 cfowns for them; he boughtcostly saddles and other furniture forthem, and desired his host to get himtwo servants: the Earl hearing thatFortunatus had bought the horses outof his hand, was very angry, and sentto the inn keeper,-to know who thiswas that had bought the horses out ofhis hand; and being informed he wasa stranger and no gentleman, command¬ed his men to lay hold on him, sayingthat he had committed some robbery,or murdered some men, so he was seiz¬ed and cast into prison. Afterwardsthe Earl sent for Fortunatus ont of pri¬son, and examined him who he was;he answered, that he was born in Cy¬prus, and was the son of a poor gen¬tleman. Then the Earl asked him howhe got so much money, he told him15' FORTUNATUS.that he came by it honestly. The Earltold him. that it he would not tell himhe would put him to the rack. Fortu-natus determined to chuse rather to diethan reveal the virtues of his purse.—■Upon this he was put to the rack, whenthey again demanded how he came byso many fair crowns. He said, afterthat I wandered three days in yonderwood, I found a purse with six hun¬dred crowns in it. Then said the Earl,thou vagabond, the money is mine, andthy body and goods forfeit. GraciousLord, answered he, I wist not that itwas your jurisdiction. Then said theEarl, this shall not excuse theej for to¬day I will take , from thee thy goods,and to morrow thy life.Then Fortunatus complained tohimself tf.at he had not made choiceof Wisdom before Riches.Now Fortunatus humbly begged hislife of the Earl, and was willing to loseall his goods; the Earl being moved tosave his life, at the intreaty of seme ofhis men, delivered him his purse withthe crowns in it, and charged him ne¬ver more to come into his juiudiction.16 THE HISTORY OFFortunatus rejoiced that he had so wellescaped, and was not bereft of his pre¬cious Purse. After this he travelled to¬wards his own country, having boughtseveral horses and rich apparel, andseveral servants to attend him; he ar¬rived at Famagosta" where it was toldhim that his father and mother weredead. He soon purchased his father’shouse, pulled it down, and built a moststately palace, after the beat mannerhe had seen in his travels. He alsobuilt a sumptuous church, and twelvehouses for twelve priests to say divineservice .in. He caused three statelytombs'to be made, one for his father,another for his mother; then he causedtheir bones to be taken up and placedtherein: the other he preserved forhimself and his heirs. After this heproposed to take him a wife.CHAP VI.How.Fortunatas married the Lord Ne-main’s youngest daughter.NO f far fromFamagosta lived a lordwho had three daughters that wereexeelleht beauties, and the king of Cy-FORTUNATUS.17prus intended to bestow one of themon Fortunatus. and haying caused themto be richly attired, he gave him leaveto t.ike his choice: when Fortunatushad asked each of them a question, hemade choice of the youngest, to thegreat grief of the other two sisters: theCountess and Earl liked well of thematcb^ only they objected against himthat he had no lands, which Fortuna¬tus understanding, knowing the Earl ofLigron had a considerable estate, anda castle arid several lordships to disposeof, being much indebted: Fortunatusbought them of the Earl for ten thou¬sand ducats, and paid down the money,then he jointured Cassandra that wasto be his wife in the same.Fortunatus also presented the Coun¬tess her mother with several rich jewels,to a great value, and also to her sisters,to their great content.Then did'the king proffer to keep thewedding of Fortunavus, and Cassandrahis bride, in his own court; but For¬tunatus desired to keep it at his own .new palace, humbly beseeching the kingand queen to honour him with theirpresence at his wedding. Then answer-18THE HISTORY OFed the king, I will come with my queenjbeing thy father and mother-in-law,afid my nobles and all our relations.Fortunatus was glad, and thanked theking. After four days came the king,nobles and attendants, to Fortunatus’shouse, where they were entertained withpleasant music, and many delightfulshows, in a triumphant manner, andhis house was adorned with costly fur¬niture, glorious to behold. Thus con¬tinued they all day feasting, banquet¬ing, and dancing, after a most sumptu¬ous manner, until night; when Fortu¬natus and his bride were brought totheir chamber- This feasting and ban¬queting continued forty days. Thenthe king returned to his court, highlysatisfied with his entertainment. After. this, Fortunatus made another greatfeast for all the citizens, their wives,and children.CHAP. VII.Horc Furtunalus had by his Wye twoSons.NOW Fortunatus and Cassandra liv¬ed in a joyful and happy estate.19FORTUNATUS.found no lack of any thing but chil¬dren, for he knew that the virtue ofhis purse would fail after his death, ifhe had no lawful, heirs of his body;they prayed daily to God to make themfruitful, insomuch that the Lord heardtheir prayer, and sent them a son, whichwas christened Ampedo: shortly after,she conceived again, and brought forthanother son, whom they named An-dolocia. Thus was Fortunatus veryjoyful that he had two fair sons, whomhe caused to be carefully brought up,in all accomplishments fit for gentle¬men of quality. Fortunatus havinglived twelve years with his wife Cas¬sandra, designed again to travel; whichhis wife much opposed, desiring by allthe love he bore to her and her sons,not to leave them: but he being fullyresolved to travel, appeased her, pro¬mising that he would not stay longfrom her. and then would abide withher during life. She said to hint, prayhasten your return, and I shall prayfor your safety night and day. Soonafter he took his leave of his wife andchildren, desiring God to bless them:he departed in a ship of his owp, and20 THE HISTORY OFsailed to Alexandria, where lie broughtsuch gifts‘to the Soldan that* gainedhim much favour, and received hisletter for his safe travelling through allhis dominions, where he trafficked, andbought many rich goods and jewels.CHAP. VIII.ITota Forlynatus gate rich presents tothe ‘:oldan and Jtis servants; and notehe got his TFishing-Hat.IYOrtunatus was sumptuously treat-^ ed by the Soldan, and after supperhe desired licence to bestow his gifts onthe soldan’s servants, which was grant¬ed: then opened he his purse under thetable, and gave rich gifts to all of them,according to their degree, insomuchthat, the Soldan marvelled; and beinghighly pleased, he told Fortunatus,that for his kindness he would shewhim such rarities, that he never sawthe like; then brought him to a towermade of marble stone, in the’first roomwas several rich vessels and jewels, withgreat heaps of silver coined; in the se¬cond room, he shewed several vessels ofgold, and many chests full of gold |FORTUNATUS. 21Coin, with a wardrobe full of manycostly garments, beautified with manyprecious stones, and some rich golden' candlesticks, set with carbuncles whichshone so in the night, that they gavelight all over the room: Fortunatusadmiring all these great riches and in¬finite treasures, praised them greatly;then said the Soldan, I have one jewelmore, that I esteem above all these.Then he brought him into his bed¬chamber, which was richly adorned;when he took in his hand a small felthat, simple to behold, saying, I.set moreby this hat, than by all the preciousjewels I possess; such a hat is not tobe had. Then said Fortunatus, I wouldgladly know what power and virtueconsists in it; then answered the Sol-dan, it hath this virtue, that he whohath it on his head, where he wisheshimself to be, he is with a thought con¬veyed thither so that with it 1 takepleasure, more than in all my jewels.Then thought Fortunatus, how wellwill this hat agree with my purse? sosaid he to the king, since this hat hathsuch virtue, sufely it must be very hea¬vy on his head that weareth it; then22THE HISTORY OFsaid the Sold an-, it is no heavier thananother hat; whereupon he gave it in¬to his hands, and bid him put it on hishead, asking him if he felt other wise:Fortunatus did not think it had beenso light* nor supposed he would haveset it upon his head, with that he sud¬denly wished himself in his ship (whichwas then under sail) to return into hisown country; the Soldan looking outat his window, apd seeing tire ship un¬der sail, was extremely angry, andcommanded his men to bring himback; threatening if they did not takehim, to put them to death; but all invain, Fortunatus was too quick for themand arrived safe in his own country,with his ship laden with rich goods.He was now joyfully received ot hiswile and two sons, and the citizens ofFamagosta. Fortunatus having travel¬led over most part of the world, want¬ing nothing of worldly riches that his" heart could wish, he began to considerthe advancement of his children.Fie then maintained a princely court,providing masters and learned men toinstruct his children in all manner oflearning and feats of chivalry, whereof/FORTUNATUS. 23the youngest was most inclined to be¬have himself manfully, which causedFortunatus to bestow many jewels forjousting at Famagosta, where his young¬est son won the victory. Fortunatusrejoiced, passing his days in great plea¬sure and pastime with the ' hat, andwith hawking with his son Andolociaand his wife Cassandra. When he hadfor tnany years enjoyed all earthly plea¬sures, fair Cassandra was summonedby z grievous sickness to her grave,which so inwardly grieved Fortunatus,that he languished with a deadly con¬sumption, which put him in mind toprepare for his death.CHAP. HX.How Torninatus on his Death-bed, de¬clared'to his Sons the Virtue ofdiisPurse and Hat.FORI UN AT. US, perceiving deathapproach, sent for his two sons,Ampedo and Andolocia, saying to them,My dear children. God hath taken a-way your dear mother, that carefullybrought you up, and I also • perceivedeath approaching, and near at hand.24 THE HISTORY OF, Sec.therefore F will shew you how you maycontinue i*n honour and wealth, as Ihave done to my dying day. He de¬clared to them the virtue of his purse,and how it would last no longer thanboth their lives: he also told them thevirtue of the wishing hat; command-.O'ed them not to part with those jewels,but to keep them in common, and livefriendly'together; and that they shouldnot make any person pri^y to the vir¬tue of the purse, were they ever sobeloved of them. I have, saith he,concealed the virtue of it these fortyyears, and never revealed it to" any,save you. When having said this, andgiven them several wholesome instruc¬tions, he ceased speaking, and gaveup the ghost. His sons buried himhonourably in the church that he built,in a stately tomb.FINIS.'• GLASGOW:Published and Sold Wholesale and Retail, byR, Hutchison St Co. 10, Salttnarket.