THE JOLLYMiller,OF DRONE.which is adJeS,jBefly Bell Sr Mary Gray,With tke Hi:b.ry c{ the BatLAn.r l k i r ;■Pfiiltsd U SoLi'by T.1813.theMILLER OF DRONE.— <> —Tii&RE wjis a Miller flout and (Long,fed up \vi’ beef and brofe,"'.Vi’ llurdy fegs and fhoulclers brca®,0 3 you ; fay well fui'pofe.This Miller was a Miller good,as ? ver hang a ilone,He gh his rnulter different ways; '» tr.ls Miller liv’d in Drone.chorus.With Ills hlzy weazy, f< ft and eafyAye the mi 1,1 go#s on,Of a’ the Millers e’er lyfavv.There’s nane like him in Drone.A fair maid file went to the mill,with corn on her head,Cries, Miller ye maun grind my corn,far we arc fcant o’ bread.He toi k this fair maid in his arms,in motion fet the Hone,And the mill wentlweetly clink for clankjvA’ a* the graith < 1 Drone. »With his/ CV.The fair maid me came iia-.ne agaic.and wow but fne was fain iShe nimbly tripped o’er the field,and lightly o’er the plain :She threw the meal upon the floorcries, Mither bake a fcone ;For of a’ the Millers e’er I law,there’s nane like him in Drone.With hts, SiV.The auld wife, when the meal was done,went to the mill herfei', ‘And quickly to the Miller (liebegan her needs to tell.TJie Miller laid her o’er a facl^and let the water on,And fyne he ground the auld wife’s batch-,within the mill «’ Drone..With his, ScV,The suld wife fhe came hanie again,as cajrty as a bee;Had fhe been jointed a’ via’ fprings,nae foupler ooulcl fhe be.I’ve ground my ctfrn at different miJIs4in country and in town,But of a’ the Millers e’er T faw,there’s nane like '.im in Drone.W ah his Cs’c.The auld man he jump'd to his feet,and (wore a iolehm aith.That he would next the Miller fee,if l\e had life and brenth.He’s fi’en the p- ck upon his back,when a' the meal was done.And (lately haver'd *»der the plain,unto the Mill of Drone.With his, £rc.He boldly came into the mill,cries. Miller grind my corn ;If we nae bannocks get the day,we’ll a’ be dead the morn.Tl*e Miller took a cudgel flout,and tightly laid it on,And gart the auld man cur.e the caythat e’er he came to Drone.With his, £V.Tt«e auld man. wi.th his bones fu’ fait,as hame again he fought.And ay he muttert to hyufelf,“ This meal is dearly bought.’;«.> threw vi-.e peek r.pcn tire florr,vri’ niony a fifth and gr.wtn,Cries, A’ the Millers e’er I law',the d—1’s in him in Drone.With his, &c.The daughter blufli’d- the mother glour’dthey ftar’d at ane anither,The mother at the daughter look'd,the daughter at the mither.At laft the daughter clapp’d her hands,cries Mither, he’s done yon !The Miller what a rafeal he,the very d—1 o’ Drone.With his, ifc.Aful now a feuffie did enfue,between the man ant wife;The daughter ihe did ioterceed, -to lave the mither’s life.Lut the au w nan lie did thump them baithhe minded not their moan ^And he made them promife faithfully,nae tnair to gang to Drone.With, his, tfc.But they did no lang their promife keep.thev wearied fair for yen;* •And when the anid iyan wae frae }.-raoq tht,eyTVl?!th did t0 ^So the Miller took them ane bv ane,and eas’d them of their moan ;Ane he ground their corn multer-freeWi’ a’ the graith o’ Drone.^ith his, &c.The ladies baith went ha me ag^fno’e.joy’d were they to find,i hat tho’ on pleafure they were bent,the Miller ay prov’d kind.He till’d their lea, and ground their cornwithout e’er hire or fee ;And I’m fare he far furpafTes him,that langfyne liv’d on Dee.With his, &?c.-f+-4-m-t-4 M M-M+-f «-H-+-f M f4 f4+H-4-BESSY BELL & MARY GRAY.Hiftiry of the BALLAD.PUW »“ **«* con,brated Beffy Be/l M T 1 w,s w'llere tb* ctle-of che fo Jir v"Lairfif7 ^ Tbe fa,hw,macr w-tb o“c-anotber. When Miss Be!// wasin 1666, tusvoid wiiwh, they t>u>it thi mleivcs i bowerabijut ■; raile west from Lednoeh hobW, in a veryre.ired anj romsotic fbuaiiou. In thia retreat theylived for fume time, and were oReovilited by \ your^gentleman who, being enamoured with both of them,composed the following celebrated b.lhd in theirpraiat. Hut alas! 'he mutual lover, at Ia«t Irnvtngcaught the Infeifion, .’cflimrinnicated it to the twoladies, who fell unhappy victims to ira virulenoe —Their bodies were afte. wards conv-ycd. to anoherpatt of Mr Grar’s prouud, CA'iled, Dornoch-haugh,and thore buried. On the top of a Inti. lul!, about* rr,'!- •* lialf n^rth of the houie of 1,-dncch,Kota^, a Cross of jpear an iquity ; at the foot • f thia^0 are three Welts, commocty called, the Bijhsps'I'tllt, within a frnall durance of each other; wr.eieiu dishopa of St. Andrew’s, Dunktld, aqd Di'm->lane wc'te wont to assemble, and drink to ooe-tnother, while each of them stood at the well withiniia o.vu Diositss.SONG.Ijefiy.'Byli, and Mary Gray,they are twa bmny lalTes;L l:ey bigged a bow’r on yon barn-br;and thaclvcd it o’er v/i’ ralhes.I’ air BcfT/ Bejl I loo’d yedreen,and thought I ae’er could alter.But Mary Gray’s twa pauky sen,they gar my fancy fauker.Now Be fly’s hair’s like a lint tap,fhe'fmiies like a May-morning;. ( a }Wh-eri Phoebus 1U'-its from Thetis lap,,the hills with rays adorning.White is her neck, fa ft is her hand,her waiit and feet’s fu’ genty ;Wuh ilka grace flie can Commandher Uns—O wow! t’ney’re ciaiiuy.1 • i iAnd Man*’s locks they’re like-a craw,her eyes like tliamonds1 glances!Shefs ay fo clean redd dp, am: bra , j' ihe kids whene’er fue, dances. . I• - /‘v .v A i - (.(.'■ 1 -B!vrh as a kid, with 'tilt atAvtll, 'Ihe blooming, tight, and tall.ia;And cm ides her airs Ue graeem^ O J -ve, the’s" like th Pallas.pear Belly Bell, *anrd dVbry Gray,ye unco’ lair .ppAla us ,Oar fancies je* bit .veen you twa,ye are fic; b •rmy I a lies.Wae’s me! f 'r baith I cann ’ get;to ane by law we’re 'tinted ,Then I’U dra w cuts and tak my fate,and be with ane contented.