NEW AND IMPEOVED SEEIES. 1;No. 21.T HE LI F EAND UNPARALLELEDVOYAGES AND ADVENTURESOF*1iI»AMBROSE GWINNETT;CONTAINING AN ACCOUNT OF HIS BEING ^jjTRIED, CONVICTED, AND HANGED IN CHAINS AT DEAL,FOR THESUPPOSED MURDER of AIR. COLLINS;HIS SURPRISING RECOVERY;His Voyage to the West Indies, and being taken by the Spaniards,among whom he met with the supposed murdered Mr. Collins, and \\proposal to return to England together;KIS BEiKG TAKEN BY THE ALGERIHES AND CARRIED li«T3 SLAVERY,AND, AFTER MANX HARDSHIPS,HIS RETURN TO ENGLAND.WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1850.Price One Penny,f ^ OF SCOTLANDbnburcwVTHELIFE AND ADVENTURESOFAMBROSE GWINNETT.I was born of reputable parents in the city of Canter¬bury, where my father dealt in hops. He had but twochildren, a daughter and myself; and having given mea good education, at the age of sixteen he bound me anapprentice to Mr. George Roberts, an attorney in thesame town, with whom I stayed nearly five years, tohis great content and my own satisfaction.My sister, being come to woman’s estate, had nowbeen married something more than twelve months toone Sawyer, a seafaring man, who had got considerableprizes; and my father giving him £200 with my sister,he quitted his profession, and set up a public-housewithin three miles of the place of his nativity ; whichwas Deal, in the county of Kent.I had frequent invitations to pass a short time withthem ; and, in the autumn of the year 1710, having ob¬tained my master’s consent for that purpose. I left thecity of Canterbury on foot on a Wednesday morning,being the 17th day of September; but, through someunavoidable delay on the road, the evening was consid-jrably advanced before I reached Deal; and I was so[tired, being unaccustomed to that way of travelling,hat, had my life depended upon it, I could not havegot so far as my sister’s that night. At this time,4ADVENTURES Ofthere were many of her Majesty Queen Anne’sships lying in the harbour, the English being .then at war witii tbe French and Spaniards ; besideswhich, I found this was the day for holding the half-yearly fair, so that the town was filled to such adegree, that a bed was not to be had for love or money,I went seeking a lodging from house to house to nopurpose, till, being quite spent, I returned to tbepublic-house where I had first made inquiry, desiringleave to sit by their kitchen fire, to rest myself untilmorning.The publican and his wife where I put up happened,unfortunately for me, to be acquainted with mybrother and sister; and finding, by my discourse, thatI was a relation of theirs, and going to visit them,the landlady presently said she would endeavour toget me a bed, and, going out of the kitchen, she shortlyafter called me into a parlour that led from it. HeroI saw, sitting by tbe fireside, a middle-aged man, in anight gown and cap, reckoning money at a table. ;“Uncle,” said the woman, as soon as 1 entered, “thisis a brother of our friend, Mrs Sawyer; he cannot geta bed anywhere, and is tired after his journey ; youare the only one that lies in this house alone, will yougive him a part of yours?” To this the man answered,that she knew he had been out of order, that he wasbled that day, consequently", a bedfellow could not bevery agreeable. However, said he, rather than theyoung man should sit up, ho is welcome to sleep with ime. After this, we sat a while together; when, hav¬ing put his money, in a canvass bag, into the pocket ofhis night-gown, he took the candle, and I followed him Ito bed.How long I slept I cannot exactly" determine, but I Iconjectured it was about three o’clock in the morning,when I awakened with the colic, attended with the imost violent gripes. I attributed this to some bacon iand cabbage I had eaten the former day for dinner, >after which I had drunk a large draught of milk. .I found my chum awake as well as myself. He asked ime what was the matter. I informed him, and at the!AMBROSE GWINNETT.5same time bogged he would direct me to the necessary.He told me that, when down stairs, I must turn to myright hand, and go straight into the garden, at the endof which it was, just over the water; but, added he,you may possibly find some difficulty in opening thedoor, the string being broken which pulls up the latch ;I will gave you a penknife with which you may open it,through a chink in the boards. So saying, he put hishand into his waistcoat pocket, which lay over him onthe bed, and gave me a middling-sized penknife.I hurried on a few of my clothes, and went downstairs ; but I must observe that unclasping the penknifeto open the door of the necessary, according to his di¬rection, a piece of money, which had stuck between theblade and the groove in the handle, fell into my hand.1 did not examine what it was, nor, indeed, could I wellsee, there being then but a very faint moonlight, so Iput them very carelessly together in my pocket.I apprehend I stayed in the garden about half anhour, for I was extremely ill, and by overheating my¬self with walking the preceeding day, brought on thepiles, a disorder I was subject to from my youth. Theseseem trifling circumstances, but they afterwards turnedout of infinite importance to me. When I returned tomy chamber, l was suprised to find my bedfellow gone.I called several times, but not receiving any answer, Itook it for granted that he had withdrawn into someadjoining closet for his private occasions. I thereforewent to bed again, and fell asleep.About six o’clock I arose, nobody being yet up inthe house. The gentleman was not yet returned to bed,or if he was, had again left it. I then dressed mysel.with what haste I could, being impatient to see my sis-ter ; and the reckoning being paid over-night, I let my¬self out at the street door.I will not trouble you with an account of the kindnesswith which my' si-ter and her husband received me. Webreakfasted together; and I believe it might be abouteleven o’clock in the forenoon, when, standing at thedoor, my brother-in-law being at my side, we saw threehorsemen galloping towards us. As soon as thev came6ADVKNTURES OFup, they stopped, and, one of them alighting1, suddenlyseined my collar, crying, “ You are the Queen’s pris.oner.” I desired to know my crime; he said I shouldknow that as soon as I came to Deal, where I must goimmediately with them. One of them told my brotherthat the night before I had committed a robbery and amurder.Judge, 0 reader, of my painful situation. You areaware of my innocence ; but how was I to prove thissatisfactorily to the minds of those who had arrested me,and to those who were to be my judges ? Circumstanceswere completely against me. Would they believe mystory' of having received the knife from my bedfellow ?If I swear I am totally ignorant what has become of him,will they believe me ? These, and a thousand otherthings, rushed into my mind at the moment of my ap¬prehension. But what was to be done in this emer¬gency ? they would be satisfied with nothing but my per¬son ; and to offer security for my appearance at trial,even if I could have procured friends to become suretyfor my so doing,—the sum, if sum they would havetaken, as I was charged with murder, would have beenso great that even here I would have failed. There wasno course left, therefore, but to commit myself intothe hands of an all-seeing Providence, trusting he wouldso order the course of his events as would clearly showmy innocence.Resistance, therefore, would have proved as vain asmy tears and protestations of my innocence. In a word,a warrant was produced, and I was carried back to Dealby the three men ; my brother, with another friend, ac¬companying me, who knew not what to say, or how tocomfort me.Being arrived in town, I was instantly hurried to thehouse where I had slept the preceding night, the masterof which was one of the three men who came to ap¬prehend me, though, in my first hurry, I did not recol¬lect him. We were met at the door by a crowd of peo¬ple, every one crying, “ Which is he?” “ which is he?”As soon as I entered, I was accosted by the publican’swife in tears, “ O cursed wretch what hast thou done ?AMBROSE GWINNETT.Ithou hast murdered and robbed my poor dear uncle, andall through me, who put thee to lie with him. Butwhere hast thou hid his money? and what hast thoudone with his body ? Thou shall be hanged on a gal¬lows as high as a Maypole.”My brother begged of her to be pacified, and I wastaken into a private room. They then began to questionme, as the woman had done, as to where I had put themoney, and how I had disposed of the body. I askedthem what money, and whose body they meant ? Theythen said I had killed the person I slept with the pre¬ceding night, for the sake of a large sum of money Ihad seen him with. I fell down on my knees, callingon God to witness that I knew nothing about what theyaccused me of. Then somebody cried, “ Carry him upstairs and I was taken to the chamber where I hadslept. Here the man of the house went to the bed, and,turning down the clothes, showed the sheets, pillows,and bolster dyed in blood. He asked me if I knew any¬thing of that ? I declared to God I did not. Said aperson that was in the room, “ Young man, somethingvery odd must have happened here last night, for lyingin the next chamber, I heard groanings, and goings upand down stairs more than once or twice." I told themthe circumstance of my illness, and that I had been upand down myself, with all that passed between my bed¬fellow and me. Somebody proposed to search me;several began to turn my pockets inside out, and frommy waistcoat tumbled the penknife and the piece ofmoney I have already mentioned.Upon seeing these, the woman immediately screamedout, “0 mercy ! there is my uncle’s penknife.” Then tak¬ing up the money, and calling the people about her,“here,” said she, “is what puts the villain’s guilt beyond adoubt: I can swear to this William and Mary’s guinea ;my uncle has long had it by way of a pocket-piece, andengraved the first letters of his name upon it.” She thenbegan to cry again, while I could do nothing but”con¬tinue to cry to heaven to witness that I was as innocentas the child unborn. After this they took me down tothe necessary, and here fresh proofs appeared againstADVENTURES OF«me. The constable, who had never left me, perceivingblood upon the edge of the seat, (which probably mightproceed from my being troubled with the hemorrhagethe night before,) “here,” said she, “after having cuthis throat, he has let down the body into the sea.” Tothis everybody immediately assented. *' Then,” saidthe master of the house, “ it is in vain to look for thebody any further ; for there was a spring-tide last nightwhich has carried it off.”The consequence of these proceedings was an im¬mediate examination before a Justice of the peace; afterwhich I suffered a long and rigorous imprisonment int he county-town, Maidstone. For some time, my father,master, and relations were inclined to think me inno¬cent; and, in compliance with my earnest request, anadvertisement was published in tiie London Gazette,representing my deplorable circumstances, and offeringa reward to any person who could give tidings ofMr. Richard Collins, (the name of the man I was sup¬posed to have murdered,) either alive or dead. No in¬formation, however, of any kind came to hand. At theassizes, therefore, I was brought to trial, and circum¬stances appearing strongly against me, I received sen¬tence to be carried in a cart, the Wednesday fortnightfollowing, to the town of Deal, and there to be hangedbefore the innkeeper’s door where I had committed themurder, after which I was to be hung in chains withina little of my brother’s house.Nothing could have supported me under this dread¬ful condemnation hut consciousness of my not beirrgguilty of the crime for which 1 W’as to suffer. Myfriends now began to consider my declarations of inno¬cence as persisting in falsehood to the perdition of mysoul. Many of them discontinued their inquiries afterme ; and those few who still came to visit me only cameto urge me to a confession ; but I was resolved that Iwould never die with a lie of that kind in my mouth.The Monday before the fatal day now arrived, whenan end was to be put to all my miseries. I was calleddown into the court of the prison ; but I confess I wasnot a little shocked when I found it was to be measuredAMBROSE GWINNETT.0for the irons in which I was to be hanged after execu¬tion. A fellow.prisoner appeared before me in thesame wofid plight, (he had robbed the mail ;) and thesmith was measuring him when I came down, while thegaoler, with as much calmness as if he had been order¬ing a pair of stays to his daughter, was giving direc¬tions in what manner the irons should be made, so asto support the man, who was remarkably heavy andcorpulent.Between this and the day of my execution, I spentmy time alone in meditation and prayer. At length,Wedne.-day morning came, and about six o’clock I wasput into the cart ; but sure such a day of wind, rain,and thunder, never blew out of the heavens; it pursuedus all the way ; and when we arrived at Deal, it becameso violent, that the sherilf and his officers, who had nota dry thread about them, could scarcely sit on theirhorses. For my own part, my mind, God help me!was, with long agitation, become so unfeeling, that Iwas in a manner insensible to every object about me ;but I heard, without the least emotion, the sheriff whis¬per to the executioner to make what dispatch he could,and I suffered him to tuck me up like a log of wood,being unconscious of what he was doing.J can give no account of what I felt while I was hang¬ing, only that I remembered, after being turned off,something for a little appeared about me like a blaze offire ; nor do I know how long I hung. No doubt, theviolence of the weather favoured me grcally in that cir¬cumstance. What I am now going to tell you, 1 learnedfrom my brother ; which was, that after having hungfor about half an hour, the sheriff's officers all went off',and I was cut down by the executioner ; but when hecame to put the irons upon me, it was found a mistakehad been made, and that the irons of the other man,which were much too large for me, bad been sent in¬stead of mine. This they remedied as well as theycould by stuffing rags between my body and the hoopsthat surrounded it ; after which I was taken, accordingto my sentence, to the place appointed, and hung on agibbet, which was ready prepared.10ADVENTURES OFThe cloth over my face was but slightly tied, andsuffering no pressure from the irons, which stood agreat way from it, was, I suppose, soon detached bythe wind, which was then rather violent; and probablyits blowing upon my bare face expedited my recovery ;certain it is, that in this awful and tremendous situationI came to myself.It was no doubt a very great blessing that I did notimmediately return so perfectly to my senses as to havea feeling of things about me ; yet I had a sort of recol¬lection of what had happened, and in some measure wassensible where I was.The gibbet was placed in a corner of a small commonfield where my sister’s cows usually went; and itpleased God, that, about this time, a lad, who took careof them, came to drive them home for evening milking.The creatures, which were,feeding almost under me,brought him near the gibbet, when stopping to look atthe melancholy spectacle, he perceived that the clothwas from-off my face, and, in the very moment helooked up, saw me open my eyes and move my underjaw. He immediately ran home to inform the peopleat his master’s. At first, they had some difficulty inbelieving his story ; but at length my brother came out,and, by the time he arrived at the field, I was so far re¬covered that my groans were very audible.It was now dusk. The first thing they ran for wasa ladder. One of my brother’s men mounted, and put¬ting his hand to my stomach, felt my heart beat verystrongly. But it was found impossible to detach mefrom the gibbet without cutting it down. A saw, there¬fore was gotten for the purpose, and, without givingyou a detail of trifling circumstances, in less than halfan hour, having freed me from my irons, they got mebled, and put me into a warm bed in my brother’s house.It is an amazing thing, that, though upwards of eightpersons were acquainted with this transaction, and Iremained three days in the place after it happened, nota creature divulged the secret. Early next morning, itwas known that the gibbet was cut down, and it imme¬diately occurred to everybody that it was done by myAMBROSE GWINNETT.11relations, in order to put a veil over their own shame,by burning the body. But when my brother was sum-moned to the mayor’s house in order to be questioned,and he denied knowing anything of the matter, iittlemore stir was made about it; partly because he wasgreatly respected by all the neighbouring gentlemen,and, in some measure, perhaps, because it was knownthat I continued to persist strongly in my being inno¬cent of the crime for which I suffered.Thus, then, was I most miraculously delivered froman ignominious death, if I may call my coming to lifea delivery after all I had endured. But how was I todispose of my life, now that I had regained it ? To stayin England was impossible, without exposing myself tothe terrors of the law. In this dilemma, a fortunatecircumstance occurred. There had been, for some timeat my brother’s house, one or two of the principal offi¬cers of a privateer, that was preparing to cruise, justthen ready to sail, and the captain kindly offered to takeme on board with him. You may guess that little cere¬mony was made on our side to accept of such a proposal;and proper necessaries being quickly provided for me,my sister recommended me to the protection of God andthe worthy commander, who most humanely receivedme as a sort of under-assistant to his steward.We had been six months out upon our cruise, havinghad but very indifferent success, when, being on thecoast of Florida, then in the hands of the Spaniards,we unfortunately fell in with a squadron of their men-of-war, and, consequently, being taken without strikinga blow, we weie all carried prisoners into the harbourof Havanna. I was really now almost weary of mylife, and should have been very glad to have ended itin the loathsome dungeon, where, with forty others ofmy unfortunate countrymen, the enemy had stowed me ;but after three years’ close confinement, we were let outin order to be put on boaid transports, and conveyed toPennsylvania, and from thence to England. This, asyou may believe, was a disagieeable sentence to me,taking it for granted that a loturn home would be a re¬turn to the gallows.12ADVENTURES OFBeing' now, tlieieforc, a tolerable master of the Span¬ish language, I solicited very strongly to be left behind ;which favour I obtained by means of the master of theprison, with whom, during my confinement, I had con¬tracted a sort of intimacy, and he not only took meinto his house as soon as my countrymen were gone,but, in a short time, he procured me a salary from thegovernor for being his deputy.Indeed, at this particular time, the office was by nomeans agreeable. The coast had long been infested withpirates, themost desperategang of villains thatcan beim-agined, and there was scarcely a month passed that oneor other of their vessels did not fall into the governor’shands, and the crew as constantly put under my care.Once I very narrowly escaped being knocked on thehead by one of the ruffians, and having the keys wrestedfrom me; at another time I was shot at. It is true, inboth cases, the persons suffered for their attempt, andin the last case a little too cruelly, for the fellow wholet off the carabine was not only put to the torture toconfess his accomplices, but afterwards broken upon thewheel, where he was left to expire, the most shockingspectacle I ever beheld.I had been in my office about three months, when aship arrived from Port-Royal, another Spanish settle¬ment on the coast, with nine English prisoners on board.I was standing in the street as the}’ were coming up fromthe port with a guard of soldiers to the governor's house.On looking in the face of one of the prisoners, it imme¬diately occurred to me that I had formerly been acquain¬ted w ith him. I could not then stop them to speak to¬gether; but, in an hour after, they were all broughtdown to the prison, there to be lodged till the governorhad signified his further pleasure.As soon as the poor creatur°s found that I was anEnglishman, they were extremely happy, even in theirdistressing situation ; though, indeed, they were treatedwith lenity enough, and were only sent to the prisonuntil a suitable lodging could he provided for them, theyhaving been, in the course of the war, made prisonersby the Spaniards as well as myself, and were then onAMBROSE GWINNETT.13tliuir return home. I hid, tlierefore, now an opportu¬nity of taking’ notice of the man whose face I thought Iknew, and I was more and more convinced that I wasnot mistaken ; in a word, I verily thought this man wasthe person for whose supposed murder I had suffered somuch in England, and the thought was so strong in myhead, that I could not sleep a wink all night.On the morning after their arrival, I told them thatif any of them wished to walk about and see the town,I could procure them permission, and go along withthem. This man said he would go, and this was whatI wished. Three other prisoners who went out alongwith us, walked a little in advance. I now took theopportunity, and looking in his face, “ Sir,” said I,“ were you ever at Deal ?” I believe he, at that instant,had some recollection of me, for, putting his hand uponmy shoulder, tears burst into his eyes. “If you have,”said I, “and you be the man I take you for, you heresee before you one of the most unfortunate of humankind. Sir, is your name Collins?” He answered itwas. “ Richard Collins ?” said I. He replied, “Yes.”‘‘Then,” said I, “ I was hanged and gibbeted on youraccount in England.”After our mutual surprise was over, he made me givehim a circumstantial detail of every thing that happenedto me in England from the moment we parted. I neversaw any man express such concern as he did while Iwas pursuing my melancholy adventures; but when Icame to the circumstance of my being hanged, and after¬wards hung in chains, I could hardly prevail on him tobelieve my relation till backed by the most serious assev¬erations, pronounced in the most solemn manner. WhenI had done, “ Well,” said he, “ young man, (for I wasthen but in my five-and-t wentieth year ; Mr Collinsmight be about three-and-forty,) if you have sustainedany misfortunes upon my account, do not imagine,though I cannot lay' them at your door, that I have beenwithout my sufferings. God knows my heart, I am ex¬ceedingly sorry for the injustice that has been done you ;but the ways of Providence are unsearchable.” Hothen proceeded to inform me by what accident all mytroubles had been brought about.14ADVENTURES OF“ When you left me in bed,” said he, “ having at firstawakened with an impression I could not account for,I found myself growing exceedingly sick and feeble. Idid not know what was the matter; I groaned andsighed, and thought myself going to die, when acci¬dentally putting my hand to my left arm, in which Ihad been bled the morning before, I found my shirt wet,and, in short, that the bandage had slipped, and theorifice being again opened, that a great flux of bloodhad ensued. This immediately accounted for the con¬dition in which I found myself. I thought, however,that I would not disturb the family, who, I knew, hadall gone tc bed very late ; I therefore mustered all mystrength, and got up with my night-gown loose aboutme, for the purpose of going to a neighbouring hair-cutter, in order to have the blood stopped, and thebandage replaced. He lived directly opposite our house;but, when I was crossing the way to knock at his door,a band of men armed with cutlasses and hungers, camedown the town, and, seizing me, hurried me towards thebeach. I begged and prayed, but they soon silencedmy cries. At first, I took them for a pressgang, thoughI afterwards found they were a gang of ruflians belong¬ing to a privateer, aboard of which they immediatelytook me; .however, before I got there, the loss of bloodcaused me to faint away. The surgeon of the ship, Isuppose, tied my arm ; for, when my senses returned, Ifound myself in a hammock, with somebody feeling mypulse ; the vessel was then under weigh.“ I asked where I was. They said I was safe enough.I immediately called for my night-gown ; it was broughtme; but of a considerable sum of money that was inthe pocket of it I could get no account. I complainedto the captain of the violence that had been done me,and the robbery his men had committed ; but, being abrutish fellow, he laughed at my grief, and told me ifI had lost anything I should soon have prize-moneyenough to make amends. In a word, not being able tohelp myself, 1 was obliged to submit; and, for threemonths, they forced me to work before the mast. Inthe end, however, we met the same fate that .you did.AMBROSE GWINNETT.15We were taken by the Spaniards, and, by adventuresparallel with your own, you now see me here on myreturn to my native country, whither, if you will ac¬company me, I shall think myself extremely happy.”There was nothing’ now to prevent my returning toEngland ; and a ship being to set sail in eight or tendays, Mr. Collins and I determined to embark in it.As soon as we returned home, I went to my master andtold him my resolution ; he did not dissuade me from it,chiefly, I suppose, because it gave him an opportunityof getting the little office I held for a nephew of his, whowas lately come to live with him, to whom the same dayI delivered the trust. And here the providence of Godwas no less remarkable to me than in other particularsof my life ; for, the same night, eight or ten pirates,who were in the prison, watched the occasion, while theyoung man was locking up the wards, to seize him,taking the keys from him after having left him for dead ;and, before the alarm was sufficiently given, five ofthem made their escape, having, as was supposed, gotoff the coast by means of the piratical boats, which werekept constantly hovering about.It was on the 18th of November, 1712, that, havingmade all my little preparations, I sent my trunk aboardthe Nostra Senora, a merchant-ship, bound for Cadiz ;Michael Deronza, master. The vessel was to set sailthat evening, and lie in the roads, about three milesfrom the town. About seven o’clock in the evening,being then sitting with Signor Gasper, my old friendand master, in the portico of his house, a lad came up,and said that a boat had been waiting half an hour forme at the port, and that my companion, Mr. Collins,was already on board. I ran into the house for mysmall bundle, and only stayed to take leave of one ortwo of the family. I made what haste I could to thequay ; but, when I arrived, I found the boat bad putoff, leaving word that I should overtake them at a littlebay about a mile beyond the town. The dusk wascoming on. I ran along the shore, and, as I imagined,soon had sight of the boat, to which I hallooed as loudas I was able ; they answered, and immediately put1GADVENTURES OFabout to take mo in. But we had scarcely got fiftyyards from land, when, on looking about for my friend,Mr. Collins, I missed him; and then it was I found Ihad made a mistake, and instead of getting on boardmy own boat, which was now a considerable way a-head, I got into a boat belonging to some of the pirates.I attempted to leap overboard, and could easily haveswam ashore, but was prevented by one of the crew,who gave me a stroke on the head, which immediatelylaid me senseless; and I found afterwards that theymistook me for one of their own men, who had beenpurchasing goods in the town.A more infernal crew than thesepirates never breathedupon the face of the earth. Their whole lives was ascene of rapine and murder, which, if they had no op¬portunity of committing upon the wretches that fell intotheir clutches dining their piratical pursuits, they com¬mitted on one another. During the time I remainedwith them, nearly four years, there were no less thaneleven assassinations amongst themselves. There wasan uninhabited island in the Gulf of Mexico whichthose villains called Swallow Island, from the greatnumber of those birds which harbour upon it. Herethey had a fotification ; and the place being renderedalmost inaccessible by rocks, except at one little inlet,just large enough to admit a single vessel, they defiedthe Spanish power.The captain was one Bryan Walsh, an Irishman,whom I cannot help calling a most execrable and bloodyvillain, though the Almighty put it into his heart to bea very good friend to me. When I was brought intothe ship, and immediately after into the captain’s cabin,the first person that accosted me was one of the fellows• that broke out of the prison, and had formerly beenunder my care. Ho knew me directly; and, withoutmore ado, drawing out his dagger, aimed a stroke at me,which, falling on my neck, entered deep into the flesh,and must infallibly have put an end to my life had notthe captain prevented it by raising his cane betweenhim and me, and broke the force of the blow. Fromthat moment, he seemed to take me under his protection.AMBROSE GWINNETT.17At his own request, I gave him a history of my ownlife, which astonished him greatly ; but, notwithstanding1 pleaded hard to go on shore again, he absolutely re¬fused ; and, in spite of all my entreaties, brought meto the island and fortification I have already mentioned,where finding I could read and write, two qualificationshe wanted himself, he thought I might be of use to him.I have already said that with these people I remainednearly four years ; on land, I acted as storekeeper, and,at sea, as a sort of purser to the ship. I may observe,that there was always a sufficient number of hands lefton the island to man the fort, which was so situatedas effectually to prevent the approach of the enemy.Indeed, the office of store-keeper was a place of greattrust. You would hardly credit me were I to attemptto tell you of the immense riches these robbers badamassed together. One article alone will be sufficientto give you an idea of it. Under one shed, I countedthree thousand eight hundred bales of English goods;and I may safely declare, that in other merchandise, ofalmost every kind, they fell nothing behind ; and, on anaverage, there could not be less in their coffers than twohundred thousand pounds sterling in specie, besides animmense quantity of gold and silver in bars.The continual terror that was upon my mind while Iremained witii these people, is not to be imagined; butto give you a detail of the manner of my life while I eu-duied the worst of bondage, would be tedious, becauseit had no variety ; and shocking, to boot, as l was forcedto join in ail their horrid schemes. I shall only tell youthat, in one of our cruises, we met with a Jamaica ship,and hoisted our black colours. Having boarded her,because she made some resistance, and killed one of ourmeu, the captain ordered that the whole crew should bemassacred. The wicked command was executed uponthe master, five seamen, and a boy; then taking thecargo out, which proved to be rum and sugar, we scut-tied the ship, and returned to our fortification. But seehow the avenger of wicked deeds makes the fruit of ourcrimes our punishment! This cargo of rum, which wasof a kind not many degrees short of aquafoitis, was18ADVENTURES OFdrunk by the men with such avidity, that, in little morethan three days, out of our complement of eighteenmen, seven absolutely lost their lives by it, among whomwas the captain.I cannot but confess that I had some attachment tothis man, because he appeared particularly attached tome ; when, therefore, I saw him lying senseless on thefloor overgorged with that infernal liquor, I did every¬thing I could to recover him, and so far succeded as tobring him to his senses ; but the quantity he had drunkinflamed his bowels to a degree not to be assuaged byany lenitives that were in my power to procure for him.He was seized with intermitting convulsions, that car¬ried him otf the next day ; but, about four hours beforehe died, he called me, in the presence of all the men,who stood about him in the cabin, and desired me to sitdown with pen and ink to draw out his will. He leftme sole heir to his share of the booty, signing the paperwith his mark; which paper, through a series of un¬heard-of misfortunes, I have preserved in my custodyever since.We buried the captain next day ; and, on inspection,and dividing the treasure, I found myself worth consid¬erably more than forty thousand pounds sterling. Thepersons now remaining in our company, were JosephWright, Andrew Van Hooten, a Dutchman, JamesWinter, and myself, the four principals; besides fourcommon men, to whom we assigned five thousandpounds each, which we gave to them in dollars, nor didI observe any discontent among them on account of thebequest the captain had made me.All my thoughts were immediately bent on gettingotf the island to some of the English settlements. Iplainly perceived that my companions again wanted tobe at their old practice ; but, one day, talking of anothercruise, I represented to them the danger and uncomfor¬table situation wo were in, and that we had each a veryample fortune to support us in any part of the world,—it was my advice, therefore, that we should imme¬diately put all our treasure on board, with as much ofthe merchandise as we could conveniently carry, andAMBROSE GWINNETT.19make the best of our way to Jamaica, where there wasno doubt but we should be well received.They agreed to this proposal with more alacrity than1 thought they would. We fell immediately to work,and, in two days, were prepared to sail. But, thoughwe put a considerable quantity of bales on board, whatremained still in the warehouse was astonishing. Iwarned the fellows of their rapacity, and the danger oftoo heavily lading the ship ; but they would not giveover till she could hold no more ; and then the treasurepacked in chests, each man’s share separate to himself,we put into the cabin.We weighed anchor on the 3d of August, and forthree days had excellent weather ; but, on the fourth, astorm began to threaten, and the symptoms still increas¬ing, by midnight such a hurricane was raised betweenheaven and earth as I never wras witness to. Aboutthree o’clock, we were obliged to heave the ship underher bare poles, and the sea ran so exceedingly high,that we could not venture to keep any lights aboard,though the night was so dark that we could scarcely seeone another at a quarter of a yard's distance ; the windstill increasing, the main-mast sprang about six feetfrom the deck, so that nothing could save it. We nowbegan to feel the consequence of lading the vessel toodeeply. The first thing we threw overboard were ourguns; and, as our case became more and more desperate,everything followed them, not excepting the chests oftreasure. Thus I was once more reduced to my origi¬nal state of poverty. As daylight appeared, the stormabated. Wethen, as well as we were able, erected jury-masts, and, in about three hours, managed with thegreatest difficulty to get the vessel under sail.I was then standing by the man at the wheel, leaningagainst the mizen-mast, returning God thanks in myown mind for our amazing escape, when the boatswaincame up to me and said, “Egad, Mr Gwinnett, you havebrought us into a pretty hole here; if it had not beenfor you, we should not have taken this trip, and lost thesubstance we have been working for so many years, butyou loop too, I assure you.’’ I asked him what he meant ?•20ADVENTURES OFHe said he would soon let me see ; upon which he anatwo or three others came behind me, seized mo by thenape of the neck and the waistband of the breeches, andforced me over the rails of the quarterdeck into the sea.The shock of the fall, and the maze I was in fromsuch unexpected treatment, almost bereaved me of mysenses. I endeavoured, however, to keep myself abovethe water as well as I could, though I had no hopes ofsaving my life. My first attempt was to swim after theship ; but finding that impracticable, I turned about,and I believe L had swam for three quarters of an hour,when, being very faint and weak, I began to put up mylast prayer to God, and determined to commit myselfto the bottom of the deep ; but, at that instant, turningmy head a little aside, I saw, at a small distance fromme, what at first I took for a barrel ; but what was myjoy and astonishment, when, coming near, I perceived itto bo one of our own boats, which had been washedoverboard the night before, and, to complete my joy,the oars were lashed to the seat! Almost spent, as Iwas, I made shift to get upon it ; and here I saw my¬self freed in a miraculous manner from the fury of thewaves ; but, at the same time, I found myself in an openboat, at least sixty leagues from land, without a com¬pass, or any kind of nourishment whatever, unless Imight call tobacco some, which I found in a box in oneof my waistcoat pockets ; and I believe in my con¬science that it afforded me a nourishment which, in agreat measure, helped to preserve me.It was a very great blessing for me that moderateweather followed the tempest, by which means I wasenabled to keep the boat tolerably steady. I could notbe less than thirty hours in that situation, when I wastaken by a Spanish carrick ; but I can hardly reckonthat among my fortunate accidents ; for, on the sameday that I entered the ship, one of the men, while Iwas asleep, hanging up my clothes among the shroudsto dry, emptied my pockets, and finding several papersrelative to the pirates' affairs, on arriving at Port-Royal, whither they were bound, they seized me as oneof the desperate gang.AMBROSE GWINNETT.2)I must observe to you, that, when I first went intothe ship, I gave a false account of myself, which occa¬sioned my ruin ; for, now' confessing the truth, andtelling them that I had been forced into the pirates’service, with all that had happened to me among them,my prevarication made them suspect my veracity, andI was two years in prison ; when, by what means 1 knownot, some of the wretches with whom I left our islandhaving- been taken as pirates upon the Spanish coast ofEurope, an order came to bring me over to Cadiz, inOld Spain, in order to be evidence. When I came there,I was detained for many months; but at length, whenthe pirates were brought up for trial, instead of beingsummoned for evidence, I found myself trea'ed as adelinquent, and, with two others, condemned to thegalleys for life.I w orked on board of them for several years, whena galley I belonged to was ordered to sea against anAlgerine rover that infested the coast; but, instead ofone, met with three of them. The issue of an engage¬ment was fatal to us. The greater part of the crewwere killed, and the rest taken prisoners, among whichlast I was one, having lost my leg in the action.After this, I passed a long and painful slavery inAlgiers, till, with many other English captives, I w7asreleased, by agreement between the Dey of Algiersand his Britannic Majesty’s agent. In the year 1730,I returned to England. The first thing I did was toinquire after my relations, but all those nearest to mewere dead ; and I found that Mr. Collins had never re¬turned home ; so I suppose he had died on his passage.Though not an old man, I was so enfeebled by hard¬ships that I was unable to work; and being withoutany manner of support, I could think of no way of get¬ting my living but by sweeping the crossing betweenthe Mews-Gate and Spring Gardens, Charing Cross,London ; and ultimately, being even unable for thisemployment, I depended on the generosity of a feelingand benevolent public.22ADVENTURES OFThe history of Ambrose Gwinnett is one which cer¬tainly should prove a very serious warning to bothjudges and juries when called on to administer the lawin similar cases. Better, far, to allow fifty guilty indi¬viduals to escape, than permit one innocent person tosutler. And this is not a solitary case where evidenceas clear—but yet as false—has been brought against theculprit ; and the truth of his innocence has been dis¬covered when it was impossible to repair the injury.Though obliged to quit his native land for dread ofbeing apprehended, it must have solaced Gwinnett’smind when he reflected that he was innocent of thecrime for which he had to fly. How different wouldhis feelings have been had he been guilty of the fouldeed 1 every tempest that blew, every difficulty he en¬countered, every hardship be experienced,—and thesewere not few,—would have kindled within his breastconscience’s sting, and would have made him cry out, likeone of old,—" My burden is heavier than I can bear.Oh ! whither shall I flee to be freed from this perpetualtormentor 1” Such, reader, is the difference betweenthe feelings of the innocent and the guilty individual.A PERILOUS SITUATION.I sat watching the storm, till eight o’clock, when aflash of lightning struck the ship, and killed two ofthe seamen on the forecastle. I ran to ascertain theeffects of the stroke, and heard the second mate, whowas between decks, cry out, ‘Fire in the hold!’ Thecargo had taken fire from the electric fluid.A PERILOUS SITUATION.23In a moment all hands were on deck ; buckets weresupplied in abundance; the pumps were manned, andthe water was discharged on the burning cargo ; pas¬sengers and crew were all on the alert: I assisted atthe pumps. When the hatches were taken off, waterwas poured into the hold, for flames and clouds of smokeissued forth from it, increasing every instant in heat anddensity. It was soon found that all exertion was invain—the vessel must perish !From the pumps we ran to the boats; and the gigand yawl were lowered in a moment. Captain Dacreaffirmed that the two boats could not carry all the ship’scompany, passengers and crew : but the trial mustbe made. The two ladies were first put safely into theyawl; some other passengers and myself, with part ofthe crew, followed, and our weight sank it nearly to thewater’s edge ; the captain and others entered the smallerboat and sufficiently filled it, leaving the vessel withhonourable reluctance; while the first mate gallantlyremained on board to the last.We happily succeeded in bringing away two com¬passes from the binnacle, and a few candles from thecuddy table, one of them lighted; one bottle of wineand another of porter were handed to us, with the table¬cloth and a knife, which proved very useful; but thefire raged so fiercely in the body of the vessel, thatneither bread nor water could be come at.It was now about nine o’clock: the raiu poured intorrents, and the lightning continued to stream alongthe heavens.Our first object was to get clear of the vessel, lest sheshould explode and overwhelm us. But to our greatdistress we discovered that the yawl had no rudder, andthat in the two boats we had only three oars. Fromthe gig, which had a rudder, they gave us a rope’s endto keep us in tow ; and by means of a few spars, foundat the bottom of the boat, we assisted in moving our¬selves slowly through the water. Providentially the seawas very still, or our boats would have swamped andwe must have perished. The vessel neared us more thanonce, and seemed to threaten to involve us in its own24A PERILOUS SITUATION.destruction. The cargo, consisting chiefly of hams,cheeses, ale, porter, spirits, and other things equallycombustible, burned with violence and rapidity, and theflames rose to an amazing height.We succeeded in increasing the distance between nsand the vessel ; directing our course towards land, bvhelp of the compasses, which we could see by the lightof the caudles we had with us. About ten o’clock, wesaw the masts go overboard, and the sides of the vesselseemed to be burnt down to the water’s edge. Thespectacle was awfully grand, even contemplated ab¬stractedly from a recollection of our own circumstances.The destruction, by fire, of the animals on board, dogs,sheep, &c., at another time would have excited our deep¬est commisseration, but, at present, the total loss of pro¬perty, the awfully sudden death of the seamen, our ownnarrow escape, and the great probabilities, even yet,that we should never again see the light of day, or setour feet on solid ground, seemed to absorb our facultiesand feelings: for some time the silence was scarcelybroken, and I doubt not, that many, like myself, wereengaged in thoughts most suitable to immortal beingson the brink of eternity—in thankfulness and in prayer.The number of persons in the two boats was forty-eight; and all, with the exception of the two ladies,who, I must observe, bore these awful circumstanceswith extraordinary fortitude, took it in turns to workat the oars and paddles. After some time, the rainceased ; the labour of bailing water from the boats wasconsiderably diminished ; we hailed each other fre¬quently, during the night, and the honest tars, true‘hearts of oak,’ occasionally gave a ‘hurra,’ to cheereach other, and to keep up our spirits.The Tanjore must hive risen in the water, as itgradually consumed; we saw it burning the whole night,and at day-break could distinguish a column of smokearising from it, which, however, soon ceased, and wesaw and heard no more of our favourite ship. Whenthe sun rose, we could clearly discern land a-head ; thesight of it filled us with grateful joy and nerved us withfresh vigour.