THEHistory and AdventuresOf that Famouslb!'-v' . ; 'Negro Roller^i". e-3 Finger’d Jack,he Terror of Jamaica.FA L KIR K:PRINTED AND SOLD BY T. JOHf £fl»ON«HISTORY AND ADVENTURESorThree Finger’d Jack.rpniS. daring rrcrauder, whole real aamej***■ wai N^inf 'Eg wa* a native of Afric;.. wa‘||cf a b >ld and martial appearance, prffeffirgakeefrjpand penetra ing^ye. The IteaQinefi cfhi* man-,ner and firm intrepidity of hi* mind commanded!:the reverence of thofe who, like him, wieldedthe fcrvile fpade: and the overieetaof the plan-jtvion would tremble aa they finote him for i;iiegleA of duty.Thi* very extraordinary man, unaided bycither accomplice or afi'ociate. bid defiance, forinear t*o year* to the military and civil powerot the ifland of Jamaica.Onovi auhee, the father of our hero, dwelt atbimbing in the interior cf Africa adjoining thecountry of the Moors- Simbingi* icatcely aday'aj >u neyfapmjarra alarge townfr xittdat the botsom of fotne rocky hilli. Hu wa* inthqjdecliae of years; and hi. bullocks were fre-quemly fiolen by the Mobnfh robberi. who camein large parties, and plundered the peaceful in-liabii ants of their property. .JManfong waa now grown to manhood; and helook upon hknfelf the prottfi.ion t f hi* father'*cattle. Qne day a large party of th" Moor* camedown ana drove before them the until among!!t:the herds Fite people hood at the door* cf theiriiUtsafT' ighttd but Muvdong lifted high ht>javelin anc llr'.ck it to the heart of the leader dt thti'i;:\Tt( 3 >The Meor* were determined to relent this out-: rage, as they termed it, and fent tick the javelin;: i;heaim»»a good; and Manfongfell to the ground,? oathed in hit blood. The inhabitant? fet upaloud5 "cream and the M -ors drove off. Manfong was• oorne to h’s father’? hovel upon theflioulden of11 countrymen. When they had conveyed himi co his hut. and laid him upon a mat, all the fpec-:ators joinsd in lamenting his fate, by fereaming. andho -vlinginamoft piteous manner. Onowau-. .tee tore hi hair in the bhternefs of hi* grief;nd calling himfelf cn the cold b^dy of his fon,pi red m fl^ht of his bewildered fpcflitcrslMinfong*ra.' not, however, deprived of life.—The j ivelin had pierced his breall and a great ef-ufion ofblood fucoceded. Thi occafior.edafaint-ng fir from which he Ihortly recovered. Thediloniflied people made frantic g<“t!ures in tokenof cheir joy, and, being of'. ’he Mah'rnetan per-ru'tfion, rx'c’aimtd •• La iita et clU Mahometyrafowl allabi."—“ There is but one Gcd, antialMuhoiiiet is his prophet.| Oar hero was foon perftdlly recovered, andIrefolved to revenge the death of hi* father, whomhe for a long time bewailed in the bitttjrnefs offilial grief. He colle&ed hie c entrymcdS and cx-ior ed them to rufhupon the Moors St repair theoffe? they daily futlained, but the people of Sim-ioing could not be prevailed on.The s.ery foul of Mr.nfong was not tobedtfea'edpy acoolrefufal, Anotheropportunrty feonpre-entediffelt; hethenpiclured to them the horrors.nd calamities they w ere daily expoftd to, andgain exhorted them to revenge. 1 he youthssow embraced the oppon unity ; and Mac long ltti'hem to join the king cf Kaar a. who was thenimr.w ar with thrnrrfui’.m.kii.cmf p.a^hTTr>,(4 )mod frivc-lcu» pretext to declare war sgainiljDaify, Kii g o; Fvaarta.By means of fome defertion* Daify's armvjwa* not lo numerous a« he exposed , and vvheniencamped at Km moo, the whole number of!effcdlive men did n;>t exceed 4000 , but being)men of fpirit and enrerprifc. cuuia be oepenciedjon. Man for g a ith hi* imall trcp from Sinibirgjjhad joined them and their apptarance gave joylto Daify. Manlcng had trained hi heroei ini]'the art of war. had taught them evolutionwhich the. King wa unacquainted with, and hejiembraced, with all the fervor of hu^heart Ip .powerful an ally. Manfrng undertock theditcipltne of the men of Kaarta and he wai'jiunanimoully chr fen Commander in Ch’tf.Daily now defied the malice of the powerful iKing of Hambarra, placing confidence in thdijvah>ur of thole few troops that were fcarceiy Jcne-fourth the number of hi* fc«s>l, who now1'appeared befor e the town of Kemmoo Maniorg:led his men to the field, but the Kaar an* grevr )faint, when they law the number* they had to 3oppofe; Manfong encouraged them by example, )and theflaughter commerced! The Bambarran*.Wen mown down I ke blades of giafs! but tbeir'inumbers were great, and cs often as a chaldj:was tfFefled it vs a’ filled with frefti troop*.— •They vilibly gained ground : and at leng h thermen of Kaarta fled ‘vith great llaugh^r.Maniong now, with a corps of reierve rufltedliup< n the foe. and bore down all before bis con*querirg arm. This encouraged the troeps oi jKaarta vvno appeared again in the field; aiding ;thofe of Simbing, headed by the vi£toriouiLMan'bng who fought like a tiger; his valounjini'pired his ewnmtn,lbuck terr ;r to the heal1],£ 5 )'When ne retamed from the fight, Daiiy,with tears of graritude, received him into hisarras, and hailed him as a fop. The Bambarransretreated fromKeimnoo. hot in three days againyappeared before the walls with redoubled force.£iManfong knew it would be madnef* to refills them now. and retreated to Joko. a tosvn north*[•- Weft K mtnoo whither he was followed bytlv King ol Bambarra; Manfortg then, with hi*b ifmall troops, took refuge in the ftreng town of>: Oedingooma, fituated ir. a hilly country, tur*tt rounded svith high walls of ftore end now sdled.on the defenfive harraffing the enemy b) fk r-mifties while they laid liege to the town.t’he Ktngo'Kaavta had a b autiful daughter,named Zaldw-na ; the foui of Manlcrg thoughfired with martial glory, couid not refill tholei Ipleafing fenlations her prefence inlpired: duringe the fiege of Gedingooma. Maniong employed theirhour; in which his prefeuce was not required isthe difenarge of thofe important duties whichdhis fituadon as Commander in Chief required,>in converfation with his beloved Zildv. na. Hertticharms had entangled the heart of Manfong;tend (he too felt an equal paffion for the heroifwkofe valour had faveo her family from ruin.The grateful King of Kaarta with pleafureijjbeheld their mutual attachment; he had alreadysjpailed Manfong as bis fon ; he fan&ioned theivviloves, and promifed to.joiia their hands as foon[j&s peace Ihould again be reftored to his country.*|Bui. alas ! Inch happir.efs was not Manforg’s lot,’s(]that ideal felicity was never realized 1•j Manfong. new tired of this (billy-lhally fight-ying iffued with a large fci dy of men from the/itown. gave battle to the bambarrdns, and de-i feated them with great iofs. The Kingnow lent1 fe to treat for peace j and thi» worthy(0 >&af:( who loved the welfare of his *'>snpTe,irrmedi-ately fenc Manfcsg, aceorr.panitd by a {mail de¬tachment of officers, to adjutl the preliminaries.1 he Bambarrans wh: were as eager as the Kasr.tans to have peace reftored.loudly hczeaec as Man-fong, withhi* fmail troop.entereiSigo. the townwhere the king waited to receive them. Lehtg,(the king of ilambarra) faw witha joyful eye theleader of the Kaartani before him; and irftantlydeviled a heliilh fehetne to ruin hi# foe, and ter-minate the military glory of the great and war¬like Man for.g.Peace being now agreed upon, joyful fellivityreigned throughout Bambar^aSt theambaffadorswere requelled to flay three days at Si go. Man-fong. although he wilhed to convey the news loeagerly fought for bv his royal mailer readily ac*quiefeedi and Lubeg furnifbed them for threedays with lumptuou* entertainment. On the eveof the lad they were all invited to the palace,and the liquors cf Bambarra were placed up^n'theboard; but Manfongexcufed himtelf, and requeu¬ed permiffion to profecute hi' journey to Kaarta.Lubeg, finding no other alternative, gave thefig'.al, and a large party ruflied in. “ VVe are be¬trayed!” exclaimed Manfong drawing His lword,and the Kaartans, following his example foughtmoil furioullv ! but overpowered with numbers,they were obliged to lubmit to their perfidiousfoes; Manfong, with a gleaming fabre, like atiger in the toils, darting on the foremoft, clefthim to the ground. The fabres of hi» adversa¬ries claftied over his head, but he heeded notdeath and ftruggled hard Jto break the chainsthat encircled him. Be ilill fought, and hisblood dreamed around, till at length overcome,he feil. covered wiih wound.' and lour of his“hde him; ihfi others(7)bound up his wcucdf, and fent him. with thereft of hi» party, to the (l3\ e-mercharts.ifour hundred Have* w efe ofttred by DaifyforManfong’sreleafe-but the (ffer v a^rfrjefled;and on the backs of the Gambia, they w ere foldto an K.ngHlh captain bound for .♦Jair.aica.—On their voyage they experienced all thefthorrorr peculiar to confinement in a Have ft ip;On their arrival Manfong (vhem vie ft all,in future call jack, that being the name givenhim on hi* arrival at Jamaica) with his fellow*Oaves, were difpofed of accordirg to lot. Hetva* then branded on the bread and he fmilcdupon the red-hot iron a* it-feared him ; but hehad vowted revenge and called upon the Godof his country to witnei’s his vow* of vengta' ceon the European race. He had often receivedthe lath of hi* employer* on hi* bare fluuldeis;and as the blood trickled down his back, fodidherefolve that for every drop a w hite man’s bleedihould fprinkle the plain !Eighteen long tedioui month* had paffedfince he wa* dragged from his native coantry,from his friend;.'and from hi* betrothed bride,the beautiful Zaddwra—eighteen long tediontgmonths had heard his groans; and jack devifedhow to lath his j^rftcuter* with a red of iron.At this period theillandofjamaica was greatlyinfefted with the prorefibr* of obi, which couftdthe moftdtngerou* andfatalconfequencet amongthenegroes. The obi w as afyftemcf witchcraft,religioudy believed in by all the negroes. No.wonder then that the heroic foul of Jack became aprey to thi* weaknefs. He confidently hoped thatthe poflelfton of an cbi w ould at once render himfeared by his fellow Have*, and fecure his ven¬geance on the European*. He therefore fcuef.t— : r-cc. d>, Amalkir, the obian praAitiorer, dwelt it* aloa'hfome ca''e far removed from the irquiring -jeye of thfe fafpici-ui whites in the Blue Moun¬tains ; he was old and (brivelied; a dil'order h|idcontrafted ail his nerve*. aad he could Ica celycrawl. His cave was the dwelling place, orrefuge of robbers; he encouraged them in theirdepredations; and gave them obi that theymight fear left rufh where daneer Hood I hisobi was (uppofed to make them invuiperabie to ' jithe attack* of the white men, and they placed J.implicit belief in its virtues.Jack approached hi cave wi;h a reveren ial 'awe; he fought hi* frierdlhip and Amalkirengaged to fet all the Haves of every planta ionin the illand in dreadful commotion. Jack,charmed with the plan, fervently wilbed itsfpeedy execution; he now no logger gicaredunder the heavy burthens of the day. the fweacthat chafed his brows, or the cruel blows of hi?talk mailer, created no pain: he had a bairn atheart, which made his daily toil th lighter.Two fummers had now elapfed fu ce JackArrived at Jamaica; and the (laves, who wete *excited to rebellion by Amaikir, w ere firmlyattached to him. I hey had, by Health, provided 1themfelves with arms and ammum ion, whichthey concealed in the Blue Mr un ains. Nothingwas now wanting, rnd they only waited tbsmoment to fet the plantations on fire to plungethe dagger in the hearts of the tfurepeans. andlay that fertile ifland in wafie and ruin. Jack,in imagination, already beheld the feene, andImiled on its horrors!On the tenth of February, 1780, it was re-folved bv this defperate band, heaoed by a moredeiperate and determined leader to brartiili- - o ■■ ^ry.'Au^ncEMtfl.Aiwvrftiiitiif venyf* anrr  Liifi—|( 9 )j( '-evening before that fixed for the execution ofai their madacre, the chiefs of the inlurrefii'na i1 met at the cave of Vmainir; ard it was agreedn‘i among their,, that the fignal to be given, wash , the firing of a gun.Thu; refolved, they feparated; and now then ! eventful moment dawned t the heavy be’.ltlruckS the midnight h .mi of twelve, and the expc£ta-0 tion of the negroes, v airing the appr aching: infuireli .n, wai at the pitch. At length the< awful clock warned them of the time. Jacklifter,ed lothe fdlemn toll, a? from the vapoured1 fepulchre it (truck upon his ear and whilperedi the bioodv defign with infinite delight1 hi heartfwelled with joy and hope of victory !Ar this moment, a gmn was fired, and a horrid;, yell enfuedl The Haves were in arm, theyioon airembkd in a line at the foot of the BlueJ Mountain-., and Jack led them to the carnage.All the Plan.aiions were foon aroufed, andC the alarm bell rung ; but ere the Europeanso| could be aroufed from their torpidity CrawfordTown was in a blase! The imoke afeended iadji volumes, mingled with the devovrirg {lames.-—3:! Screams of the defercelef.-, and groans of the(t dying, afiailed their ears!At this janfture a troop of Maroon foldiersi arrived; the rebellious negroes Hood their fire,and ran with fury on the gun* of their affailants,who turned their back* and fled.iit wa* no* five o’clock, and the fun had rifen:the ftreaks of darknes* were all dilpelled andmorning beheld the havoc which (hamelef* nighthad aided Jack now aware that the colonywould proceed aghinft him. called off his troops,and prepared for the fight.The Governirfent ycochoice Maroon* in pur-fuit of rtiofe rebels. They met and fought. I hef 10 )negroes as before. ruOie.d upon their guns, butthe Mnroons firing as hey retreated, kept then)at bay and made great (laughter. Jack in vainenccuraged hi« men he could not r< a;e them tothe combat, and they fled in every direftion.Nex' day the Governor publithed a procrarea-t’mn, offering a free pardon to fuch of the mfur-gents as would return to their duty. This hadthe defired cfT^it; for they ah returned, exceptJack, who fUll determined to harafs the Euro¬peans. f le again repat red to t he cav e of A malk i r,who hung an obi horn about his neck, rare forits fuppofed virtue'-Dr. Mofeivjin his Trea'ife on Sugar, fays—1 'a theohi of • hefamru; negrort bber, ThieeFinger’d Jack", the terror of Jamaica, in 17S0-—The Maroon wiioflewhimbrougtKitnte. It ct-n-ftfled of a goat’s bora, filled with a con pound ofgrave dirt, afhes, the blood of a biack cat, and.bumaafat, all mixed into a kind of pafie: scat’sfoot, c dried toad, a pig’s tail, 3 Hip of virginalparchment of kid-lkin, with charalfers markedwith blood on it, were alfo in hh obian bag —Thefe, vrish a keen fabre. and two guns, w ereall hi* obi; with wh ch.and his courage in de¬fending iato the plain;, and pi1 underirg to fupplyhis wants and his (kill in retreating into oiffi-calt failneiTei, among the mountains, command¬ing the only accets to them, where none daredto foliov/ him, he terrified the inhabitants, andfet the civil power and the ntighb. urir.g militiaof the illand at defiance, for near t wo years. '’It vojid be tedious to enUmeiate all the ex¬ploits of this famous robber: we fliaii thereforeonly relate a few of the moll prominent. Onedav, as jack v.as reconnoitring on the top ofDebanus, he beheld a ntgro btne.v fc, arnied, andbearingptcvulions.. Tck ruflied down the moun-1I( " )ii :i tains, and altaeiced him This negro sva* an in-t j timate of J ack’s in hi* day* of flaver'. ; but Jacic< a would now ackno A’le.dge no fri.endfli’p, and com-irtnanded him to deliver. Qjalhee. who wa* alio» bold and refolu»e. refufed, j-ickdrew hn.labre;' afhee pulled a piftol from hi'i girdle fired,.andP i fh itofTtA'oofhisanlagonid’sfinger*. fromv.hichi ‘ he acquired the name of three Finger d )i i T his enraged J ick*. and he ufed his iword in ta¬li vage fury.—C^juihee received feveral »ound*,« anti no longer cap-b’e of maintaining the contedji he fled; while Jack took charge of the booty,and retired to hi* cave.Another timr J »ck was fordy dre ve, having,i had no food for fome davs. There flood a plar-taticn not far from Lebanu*, the proprietor cf* which had given his tlavei a holiday, it being hi*i daughter’s birth dav,& ‘hey were makingmerry.i Jack beheld with gloating eye, from his retreat,: the feflivity of the affemblf d. and truflirg to the:: terror of his name, he feiaed a mulket and de-feended: When he came near, he hid himfelfill behind the entwined branches of a fig-tree, andi jl taking a good aim, he {hot the preflder of the feaft,' f who inflantly dropped dead. The negroes wereil flruck with a general panic; and Jack appearedt1 among them. Not one was bold enough to feiae:1 him; he held up his three finger’d hand, and! 1 they all fell upon their faces to the ground; then,si feizing as much booty as he could difpofe of^ifled to his cave.The Haves recovering from their fright,ran to.. the planter, and informed him of the appearancec of Ihree Finger’d Jack' He wa*asmuchfurprif-!■ edasthemfeives.tho’difFercntlymliigated; theirI furprife was mingled with t xc-;flive fear; his was^ ftt the daring impudence of tht bold marauder,L( 12 )who could aflame courage enough to venture be¬fore feveti hundred negroes!Jablc had now continued hi* ravage* f >r ne ara year Captain Orford a young Eoglifiiman ofgood birth and a mod amiab e diipofition hadcome over to Jamaica wi h a party of ibldier*,who vererobe garrifoned here.R)ia.thedaugh-te of a Mr. Chapman an emire it planter inMaro mb To-vn. had ca t afavourab e eye uponOrf md, wh > alfo affediona elv brheld her.Mr. Chapman who had much at heart thehaopinet’s of hi* daughter, finding that Orfdrdrealiv loved her., confented to their fpeedynuptisd . The lovers were tranfported withiv iovfol n efage of future happinef* ■, but theirjoy was foon damped by an unexpeited event.Caprhin ->tford, unacquainted with fear, orthe true charafter of our hero, frequently tra-verfed the Blue Mountains, accompanied by hi*favourite negro-bey Tuckey, to enjoy the breezewhich lightly fanned the mountain top*. Oneday, thoughtlel* of danger he proceeded till hecame rear the mouth of Jack’* cave. Jack wa*feated upon a crag, who no fooner faw Orfordthan he leaped down. Tuck ey gave a loud fere am,and O. ford preparing for the combat, drew hisfvvord, Jack fmiled upon him .vithcontempt; andlifting up hi* gun by the muzzle, knocked himdown with the bur-end.T uckey,wild with terror, fled; and Jack feizingthe CnfeleU body «f Orford, flung it down hemountain’* fide. Tuckey was procreding h >rne-ward, whenagroan flruck hi* ear—heliUened—■another groan fucceeded—and thecompaffionateboy vvilhed to learn from whence they came.Winding do » n the intricacies of the mountain,the body of Captai Ouford arrelied his fteplHi, mailer v.a* nit dead, but very much bruifed,( *3 )l and his f'ull fractured. Fuckevralfed him froftt: line ground, ard with much difficuity bore him» do the plantation of Mr Chapman. Rola ^ a*0 in an agony of grief whet flie beheld the helpltl*U fituation of Orford. She drefled hi* wound*.andti iconftantly attended him inhis illrefs and he loon)i recovered; for wounds ait cured to amiracle in: ’the Welt Indie* in any part of the body, exceptt the legs, where they are itidem or never cured,Thi* frefli proof of Jack’s valour, fpread hi*1 fame over all parts of he ilknd. He was laid■< to be the head of a gang of negro robbers, whicha was falfe; for he had no allociates.J Captain Orford was now perieftly recovered;t and Mr. Chapman eager to have the marriage fo-r. tennized, fixed the day fo earneltly looked for byafth'eyoiit glover*, rodhpel the time.he propofed$ i’a variety of entertainment*, and the nextday wasejappoin ed for a fliooting party. The mornirgdj WAs fine; and the party confilhng of Mr Chap-dijiRian. Captam'Ot ford and his boy Tuckey, witht ieveral planters and their fervanu. proceededit along the bank* of the river Morant. Near thevMbay the game wa* pretty fair; Captain Orford,d:being too eager after the game, he and his boyt 'were unfortunately feparated from the relt of thec •ompany. TheyfprungaccTeyofwildfowl; theS!Cap'ainfired andbroughtdownbi;mark:theb rdfalling on arock that o'er topped the lea Tuckryran up the cliff to lave the game. J'ick w ho wasoat in fearch of prey, met and rtc dltfled him,and. without further parley, threw him into theocean. Fortunately a boat was failing by, and,mperceiving the tranfaclum. took him or. board.Jack nosv ohiervingfcapt. Orfoid he levelled« :hi* gun and {hot him in the back Oiford prt-(lipared to return the fire, but Jack i’pfung upon^ him, and wounded him with hia idbru Orford( H)immediately fell bathed in blood. He being veryweak Jack took him on his back and conveyedhim to hi cave.Me. Chapman, miffing Captain Orford, * e»turned with hi» party to fearch for him; whenthey came to the bay, thev found his hat and ganlying on the ground. Immedia'ely fufpechng thedi aiter. hefpr ad the a’arnvandcaufedaninftantpurfuit.but wi’hoBt effefi. Jack having eludedtheir fearch, Mr. Chapman, abforbed in grief,returned home. On hi? arrival, he wa* met hyTuckey; this for a moment ailuaged hi- grief;but when the boy related the difailer, hi* agonyincreai'ed He feared totell h'u daughter the me¬lancholy circumflance andcreadt dthedifcnvery.Rofa. perceiving the company returning, wentwith a joyful heart and fmilir.g countenance, tomeet her father; but feeing hi* melancholy air,ftie was alarmed. She enquired after his health,andthecaufe of hi* grief but received no anfwer;fhe then eagerly aiked for her beloved Orford;but the awful fiierce. and forrow which oppearedon every countenance convinced htrof the caufe;and ffie immediately fainted away She wa* borneto her chamber; where fbe continued feveraldays without taking any refrelhment; and herlife was defpaired of. Fortunately a favourableand fudden change took place, for which neitherher phyfician or attendants could affign a caufe,and flu vifibly recovered.Mr. Chapman was blelfed by this joyful change she faw with tranfport th? colour again glow opthe cheek of hi* beloved daughter; and he wa*-refolved that the day of her recovery fhould bea joyful holiday to the whole plantation. He wa*really a good man. and very generally beloved jthe Haves readilv obeved fo kind a mailer; andhis plantation wai elteemed the taoll thriving in. . _ tht*  1( IS )the ifland. And we feel no hefitatxon in afTerting,I that tf everry planter in Jamaica and the Wei*| Indiei were to follow this humane example tt1 would not only tend to T he increafe of their ownprivate wealth, but the good of thh country atlarge; and it i* indisputably as eaiy for a mafteri to gain the love of his {lave* a* their hatred.One morning Mr. '"'hapman vifited the apart¬ment of his daughter, evpeflirg to fird her much; recovered; bur what v. as hi* fut prile to percc.veher chamber window open a fnett flung out, andone end tied to the bed pofi. Ber clothes wereon the floor. He was tran fixed in amaze; but| perceiving a note lay on the table, he eagerly! broke the leal, and read it’s heart rending coo-« tents It war- as follows;“ Dear FATHEn.Being no longer able tofup-j j port an cxiftenee ’without tbe partner oj my fcul^11 my beloved Or fori,, 1 hope you viUparaon this myH firftaEl of difobedtence Tbe conflict between flivlih duty and love bas been fevere—but all powerfultii love bas conquered J am determined to fearcbSi tbe mountains and find out this Jack / ibis terror\!; of our ifland—to tr'< if be will give me him onwhom my foul doats. Do not be tineafy on myiU account. If I find li n not. 1 /ball return, and3 die in tbe arms of tbe beft of fathers lean withfafrty feeh tbe cave of this robber as l have beeninformed by tbofe who/peak from experience thatIi be never will moleft a female. Adieu, my dearfather- Rosa Chafmaw.This imprudent Hep of R .ifa's had nearly proved: fatal to her father. He loved his dangh:er withj the greateft afFeftion. and a fevere H nefs wasthe confequence of her fi ght.Jack had now been near two years in the BlueiU-—  ——    . .. Mean-( 16 )Mountains; he had became the terror of thewhole illv,id, and rendered him'elf fo tbnoxiou*bv his dally depredations t bar Governor Dullingfound it neceffary to apply to his Majsity, toifTae his royal proclamation ofrcring a rewardfor apprehending this daring robber. Accord¬ingly, two prociama'ion* were iffied. dated 'helith December, 1780 and 15 h January, 1781,ofTering a Reward of two hundred pounds, torkilling Jack, or taking him aliveThe rioufe of AlTembly, of the Ifland ofJamaica, alio came to the refolution cf givingtheir freedom to any Have (for whom they wereto indemnify his owner ) and alio freedom andpardon to any of his accomplices, who ftiould killand bring in the head and three finger’d hand ofJack, which .va. ill’ced immediately after thefir l proclamation.In confeq icncs of thefe offers, two refolute andbold negr .e*. named Qjalhte and Sam, both ofScots-liill, Mtroon- Town, with a party oftheir to wnfmsn refolved to go in fearch of Jack.Qjn hee, before he fet out, wa- chriftened, andhr name changed to James Retder. The ex¬pedition commenced, and while this party areon their purfuit, we (hall return to Rofa, whohad left her father’shoui’e. in iearchof her lover.The night war extremely dark w hen (he tookthe rerolution of defeending from her chamber,to go in fearch of her beloved (Jrford: Shedrefled herfelf a< a failor-boy,to fecure her fromviolence ; and thus equipped (he defied the in-elemenev of the weather. The palfion whichpreyed on her heart diCpelled her tear; and,unintimid.*ed (h; [iroceeded to the woods.R )!a had repeatedly heard it laid, that Jack’*cave was near moun1 Lebanua, fomen-here amongthe chain of Blue Mountain*. Thither (he pro-~ -  X.  >■->■■■iceeded Faint ar.d weary (lie wai often cBIigedito reft hem if beneath the fpread'ing fig. tree heriteuder limb* unufed to Fueh* xctflive farigue funkibeneath her; her lips were parched with fever;but (tiU the livek colour revelled unfaded on her' lovely cheek. The hope of recovering her be-J loved Orford in whole abfence life v. a* iniup-! portable, and the happy pre'age* of her foulmaking that wifhsd-for event as certain, fup-i ponei her refolution. and made her perfevere■ wi h a courage rarely to be met with in her iex,more efpeciahy w hen the peculiar delicacy of herconftitution is confidered.By violent exertion Ihe ci imbed the craggy ftetp' that overlooked Old Crawford Town, where (tillwai vifible Te ravage* of the fire. 1 he eveningfall approached, and theriresd thunder was heard: to revcbera'-e at a Ihort dillance. The dazzlingi lightning played around, and the rain fell in tor¬i' rent* down the mountain’* (ide. Rofafaw a nar-'1 row difmai path, leading to t more diinrial cave;11 and the enter* the gl omy abode, where none butI therobberorwretcheJirheartcoulndwell. The': arched vault,formed bv the roughhandcfNature,r J and the obnoxious Vapour, that affailed her, im-> prefted her mind with cifmal fear*. She dreadedto proceed, yet the ftiil more gloomy horrorsthat playdd around the cave’s mouth, impelledher. to feek a refuge. She accordingly beut herftep» to the inferior of the cave, where thedully dew. hanging on the prejefting crag droptupon.her like ice and froze l|er ht art. She r owI came to the mouth of another delcent, w hich led(jj 11 deeper into the glocr*. abode; and, to herinfinite furprife be.hdd a laper turning bereath!She uttered a faint Scream, and fell dow n thorocky defeent into the cave, where the glim-n eritig taper helped to ^efien its gigom.Hofa lav for fome tirne fenfelefi ; her forehead Jwa* vary mueh bruifed. and her lovely tref*ei ih ing dUhrivelled on her face. At length (here- ji. >vered to the mifery of her fituation: Ihe be- rheld with tortured eye, the frightful cave, which iwas hung around with the tkeletons of turtle*,aligators and other reptiles- enough to chill thefemale heart; bat Rofa was endowed with more'courage thananany of her fex.Three linger’d jack into whole cave fhe had Ithusbeenprectpitated, was our and prowlingfor Ifrefhprey. \t thi*criticaljunAure he returned, L ‘and defcended into the cave by means of a ladder, twhile Rofa was viewing wi h terror the Three |.ymger’d handdepiAed on the wall. Jack nofcon- (ei beheld ani£uropean in hi* cave, than he feized Ione of hi« mulkets by the muzzle,mhd prepared to idadi hi* brains out. - Rofa fell upon herknte*. and Iexclaimed, “ Mercy ! mercy! I am a woman!”— IJ ick dropt the weapon, and was perplexed; fer ja1 though he wa» reiolved to Ihrw mercy to wo¬men. yet he had alfo determined to put to death tthat being who fliauld gain a knowledge of hi* icave.— The idea of his beloved Zaldwna recur- -red to hi* mind. Perhaps (laid he) at thi*moment (he too may have cauie to implore formercy!” and after fome deliberation, he vefolvedthat Rofa (hmid not die: but felf-prefervationdemanded he Ihould confine her in the bowels ofthat rock her raihnel* had penetrated ,Night wa* getting onspace. Jack was weariedwith the fatigue* <Jf the day; and, after eating ot Ithe nlaintain, of which the hungry Rofa partook, ,he funk iato a found deep Now Rofa conceived ;the idea of making hn e!ca})e; fhe reconnoitred |:ihe cave, and could find no mean* of extricating J|herlciffromher prifon,but by the wav (lie enter- 'cd. Shewa* therefote hailing nn |i Nvhich Jack defcenJed when a dreadful grcan af-i i failed her ear: (he ftopt—another groan fucceed-ed. Attoni(hed> flte turned back ; & hadtning tothe place from whence it proceeded (he openedthe door of an inner cell and beheld her Or ford,pale and bloody 1 She uttered aloud leream, andfainted, f hi* aroufed Jack, who ondifcovetingthe caufe, was about to put her to death; but hi*paflion abating he thruft the helplels Orford far¬ther into the cell 8t locked the door; 'hen takingthe ladder he alcended. and hung the key upona projc£ting part of the r#ck nearly thirty feetfrom the ground. Rofa wa* now recovered;Jfck feated her on a log which ferved him a*chair and tying her hands together with a longcord, one end of which he fastened to one part: of the rock, and holding the o’hei in his hand,I! he retired to hi* mat. placing this ladder beneathi; him, and fank again into a found fleep.Rofa - a* now loft to all hope: the deipaired ofeffefling her efcnpe, or the rcleafe of htr felfei irglover. Diftraffed at the thought, fhe knew notwhat to do; the obiiacle* feetned infui mnuntable,and (he gave up all a* loft. The idea of jack again•awaki. g.and peihaps putting a perioo totheex-; ifter.ee of her lover, for his attempting to elcape, ^prelented itfelF to her troubledmimi— the agonyof thu* lofingher^over. and the dreadful fituationfile fair him in, almoll overcame her retolution.After fome time ipent in anxioui thought, hope. iltumiv.ated'her heart. Near where Ihe tat wa*placed a table, on which Hood a lighted taper;~und her only mean* w as to confume the cord thatbound her hand*. Joyful at the idea, (he drewthe table near er with her feet and holding herbunds over the light, burnt the cord. Now dis¬engaged, the tied the end of the rope to the leg!rof the table ; and, falling upon her knees, im¬plored Heaven to aid her efcape, and that ofher faithful lover.She returned to the cell wherein Orford wasconfined; but her heart funk within her, whenthe beheld it fattened bv a large padlock, the keyof which (hedefpairedof obtaining. After a Jongfearch fhe caft her eye on it. and efing feveralineffectual efforts to get it down, fhe at lengthhappened to fee a long flick, with which theunhung the key. and it fell with a great noife.Jack was aroufed but jerking the cord he heldin his hand, found, ai he fuppofed, his priionei’fafe; and fo renewed his {lumber.Rofa now foftly approached r he cell where herlover v as confined, and unlocked the door withthe greatelt caution. Poor Orford fell fenfelefsinto her arms: hb wounds were not great buthe wa faint for svant of nourifhmert. She tookup Jack’s bottle of liquor, which weson the table,and poured fome of it down his throat, whichgreatly revived him He no fooner difcoveredhr preferver than he wataboutiomakehis grate¬ful acknowledgements; but Rofa checked him.Frofh obttacle* again prefenied themfelvestoimpede the efcapeofthe lovers, jack had fecuredthe ladder and he lay beneath the mouth of hi*cave ; but this obltacie w as loon obviated Theyplaced the table altride him as cautiouJly as pof-lible on which they alio put the Itocl. Rofa af-cended, and Orford followed. As he ileut fromthe Ilool down fell the apparatus—Jack flat tedup in a fury and fixed the ladder—but Orforddrew' it up, and left him raging .ike a mauman,vowing their immediate dcttrudlion.Me aceoi dingh, u ged by hi* fury, cliipbed upthe rock, and had nearly reached the top whenViOi fordC )O.'fort), with the but-eno of a gun which he baeitaken with him knocked him down again—Stunned v uh the blow, he lay fen {Vie li whilethey efTefled their efcape.Being thu^ fortunately freed from the horror*of their ii.tu9.tjon they left Jack to bis fate, atulmade all pnffible hafle to relieve the ar xi( u^-fears'.if M . Gh ar-rnan; whom, on their arrival, theyfound confined to hi' bed. RVa’i father over¬joyed in again beholdirg ho beloved daughter,tirhofr courage had been the mean*of prcletvirgthe iife ot her lev r and icllorirg happiiiefs tohis family, he foon recover* d.Soon afterwards the marriage cf CaptainOtfcrd and the amiabie Rota v ere folentn afdwith grea' feltiv'uy; the Captain fold hi cem-wission, and purcha ed a_ large plantation nearNew Cranford Town, whete they live lovingand beloved. We {hall now leave them bappyin the fociety of each o'her, and ret * re to thepar’, who fet out in putfuit of Japk.R.eeder and Sam with '.heir party, had beencreeping about in the woods for upv. ards of threeWeeks blockading, a' it were, the deepeft receffesof the innaccefiab e part* of the ifland, w hereJack far remote from aHhuman {ociety,refided;but thetr learch > as in ram Reeder end Sam,therefore, tired of thi* n ode of war. rel< lv edto proceed by them ft Ives in ft arch of his retreat,and take rim by ( otming it. or jerifii in iheattempt. 1 he negro b y i uckey being a ‘.adof great fpirit anc a good (hot, v.as, however,determined to cccompam them.I hefe three whom I well knew fays Dr.Moftlyj left the rtli of the yaity; trem. vh mthey hadnoibeen l<-cg fepaiatec. before they cif^covered, by .imprefiions among the weeas and-  —  e( M )bufhe*, that fotrse perfon muO have lately pcffetl irhat wav. They filently ar.d cautiouily followedth •> ffiAn'* and foon perceived a fmoke.—They thdn prepared for war.JacK. after the elcape of the two lover*.fearfulof being furprifed in hia cave feldom vifi'.ed it, '{iraying about in diff. rent parts of the mountains,This caufed hi a much anxiety; he grew wearyof his fituatiou. and the forebodings of his foulwhifpering mh'thief to his heart caufed an un* jufual heavinefs on his fpirit*.Reeder and Sam. bv following the imprtffionson the grafs. came upc» Jack before he obfcrvedthem. He wa* roafling olaimains by a fire cn theground, at the mouth of a cave. Turning roundhe difcovered his enemies; and {ba ching hisgar.*, he inilantly jumped up. His look* werefi;ice and terrible, and he told them he wouldkill «hem inftantly, if they did not furrender.Reeder undauntedly replied that hi* obi had nopower over him now, for he wa* chriflened and |hi* name v a* no longer Q lafhce. Jack knew ,Feeder and as if paralyled, he let hi* two gun* 1 ,fall to the ground, and drew his cutlaf*.Reeder and Sam were at firli frightened at thefight of him; they had to retreat, and confideredthat they were to grapple with ihebravetbllrorg-efl. and mofl determined man in the ifland. ButJack wa* alfo intimidated, for he had yrophefied,that labile obi would get the better of him; andhe well knew, from experience that the charmwould lofc nothing in the hand* cf Reeder,Withcatfartherparley,therefore Jack,fearful  _ 1.1 l . .1 . T 1-1- L 1 +\   I!i{ 23 )Reeder er-couraged by ihe flight of Jack, andfca^lefi of danger, withacutlafs in bis hand plun¬ged headlong down after him. The defee nt wa»nearly thirty yard*, and alraoll perpendicuiai—Both of them preferved their weapon* in the fall.Here wa* the fpot on w hich two of the domedheart*, that perhap* were ever hooped withinrib*, began their bloody Oruggle. Having recov¬ered their feet, the dreadful combat began, v ithall the favagr fierpeneO of two enraged lior.s.1'uckey, the little boy. who had been orderedto keep out of harm's-w ay, now n-achtd the topof rhe precipice, and during the fight fhot Jackin the belly.Sam ■» ho at a diftance beheld the feene coo*lyeCceuded the field of aftion When he arrivedat the fjpet. jack and Reeder had clcfed and tum¬bled down another precipice, in which fall theyboth loS their weapon*.Sam, row perceiving their fituattea defeendedafter them a* quick a* poflible, and alfo loft hi*cutlaf* among the bulhe* in getting downHe came up juft time enough to iave Reeder;for though they were without weapon*, anc theirwound* were deep and desperate, they u ere notidle. J.ick had caught hi antagenifl by thethroat with hi* giant * gtafp.lT.e combatants now prefented a moft horridfpe&acle—Reeder had hi* tight hand aimoft cuteff; and Jack w hofe wouud* were allb deep andiiefpera:e,ftrtamed with biood from hix (boulderS: belly. In Ihort, both combatant* were coveredv/ich blood and gafties.In thii date of he battle Tuckey, the little b*ywho wa* armed with a piftol & cutlaf* juft bameup; he trapped hi* pitted at Jack but it mif»tdfire. Sam, however, wat umpire, and decided the( *4 )Fate of the day: He ftruck Jaek cn the headwi h a piece of rock; dunned with the blow, helet go his hold, and fell fenfelels.The three then rufhed upon Jack; with thecatlaf* they cut off his head and three finger’dhand #, and carried them in triumph to Morant 1Bay. Here they put their trophies in a paii i frum and olio ved bv a vaft concourte of negroes,now u > longer afraid of Jack’s ooi blowing their(hell andhorn^. and firing their gun intheir rudemanner, they proceeded to Ivingllon and hpanifhTown,and claimed the rewards pr< mifed b\ thj?King's proclamation, and lioufe ot Aflembly.rt»e vi£toricui Reeder wa- Fojn cared of hi«wounds and he and Sam having procured theirfreedom, and the proraifed reward, live Ifappy; |and annually celebrate the joyful event.rhusfeli Three linger'd Jack, a man per risp* Iof as genuine courage as ever exifled. Hadhitf Jfmili ary fame not been cruelly Hopped by the |treacherv of the kingof Hamfcarra, whoconfigned |him to the horrors of flavery he, in all human Iprobability, would have lived happy, and been J|an'ornament to his country. Thole bright prof-pe<£ts were all blackenedby the worft of traffics— lthe African Slave Trade!—However m-terefted individuals may foften the meafure. byfnecious and plaufible arguments, every realChrilfian, or good moral man mull condemnthe pra&ice!* His bead and three-finger'd band are nowprefer ved in Jptrits jor tbs Jamjaction oj tbs',curious*FINIS.