THEBlack BookOFOR,3od’s Great and High Court ofJuflice in the Soul.* WHEREINiiThe Truth and Sincerity, the Deceit andHypocrify of every Man’s Heart andWays are judged and difeovered by theirli Conferences.Very feafonable for thefe Time?, wherein Wicked]i| Men, under Pretence of Liberty of Confcience,ill take Liberty to Sin and Blafpheme.By ANDREW JONES.r xvii. ip, ao. * The heart is deceitful abo»e all things, anddefperately wicked, who can know it ? I the Lord, fearch thelithe heart, and try the reins; even to give every one accordingijto his ways, and according to the froit of his doing.’jttus i. 15. ‘ Unto the pure all things are pure; but to themIrthat are defiled and unbelieving, is nothing pur* : but erenllhjir mind and confidence is defiled.’I PAISLEY :Printed by J. Neilson.1812,THEBLACK BOOK OF CONSCIENCE.Rev. xx. rs. And Ifaw the dead fmall an,great ft and before God j and the books ivfra,opened: And another bmk opened, which i,the book tf life: And the dead were judged on,of theje things, which were written in thbooks, according to their works.AS there are feveral books oi God.which he hath written for the goodof all the children of men, fo there aretwo fpecial books, by which the Lord willproceed in judgement againft all the fonsand daughters of men. The books which ti-God hath given to the children of men,for their ufe and comfort of falvation, are vthefe, firft and chiefly, the books of theOld and New Teftament; wherein JefusChrift, in all his cflices, as Prophet, Priefll .1and King, for to rule us and guide us, b#.his Spirit in our hearts, is made knowd'ffl!!‘ihe Black Book,"dc.n6and declared unto us. And there is like-.wife fet down therein, how every one ofus ought to live and demean himfelf inthis prefent world, with fevera! fearful ex¬amples of God’s heavy judgements againftwicked and notorious finners, in drown-1 ing the old world for their fins and wick-i ednefs; as you may fee Gen. vi. So like-wife in deftroying Sodom and Gomorrah,by nre from heaven, Gen. xix 24, 25. c Andthe Lord rained upon Sodom and Go-Imorrah fire and brimflone, and overthrewI thofe cities, and all their inhabitants j’ with'everal odier fearful examples of God’seavy wrath and indignation againftfin andland finners, in general and in particular,ipll which, as St. Jude faith in his epiftle," are fet forth for our examples, fuffering theengeance of eternal lire.’ Not for our ex-mples. that we fhould do as they did. buthat we fliould be afraid to do as they did,commit fuch fins, left the Lord lay upons fuch, or heavier weights of wrath andengeance.So like wife, in the book of the feripture,fet forth the bJefifed and happy ftate andndition of all the godly, both in this life,d the life to come, as you may fee, PI. i.v, xci,‘ ihe godly man fl;*U be deliveredw4The Mach Bookfrom the fnare of the fowler, and from ^ie ||noife of the peftilence, and becaufe he jhath made the Lord his refuge, there lhallno evil befal: So * he fhall give his angels ,charge over him, to keep him in ail his jjways,’ ver. 10, n. The joys that are pre- |jpared for the godly, and the torments that i1are appointed for the wicked, are likewife ([Ifet forth there in the book of the fcrip- |tures ; as you may fee Matth xx. 34, 41. jjTo the godly, ‘ Come, ye bielTed of my 1father, faith Chrift, inherit ^he kingdom |prepared for you before the beginning of l1the world.' But to the ungodly, ‘ Depart Ifrom me, ye curfed, into evei lading fire,prepared for the devil and his angels.’Another great book of God, is the book Iof the creature, containing thefe mighty I ":tworks both of creation and providence, J' cwherein the almightinefs, power, and [ •:,goodnefs of God are fo plainly written, |%ithat he who runs may read and fee it; for, J %as the apoftle faith, Rom. ix. 20 ‘The in-vifible things of him from the creation ofthe world are dearly feen, being under- p?j:.flood,’ faith the apoflle, ‘by the things that p!!|,are made,even his eternal power and God- ff :head, fb that they are without excufe ’ Who r;;but an almighty Gcd could out of nothingI;I111I1Iof Confctenet. 5create all things; and being created, ruleand govern all things ? As David fays, ‘ I" isnothing but the almighty power and pro¬vidence of God that bears up the earth,•and upholds the foundations thereof/ Andthis book even the Heathens, who knownot God nor his word, who never heardof Jefus Chrift; or falvarion, are acquaintedwith : They, I fay, by feeing and readingthe mighty works of God in the world,confefs and fay, Verily, there is a God, andnone but God could create thefe gloriouscreatures, the lun, moon, and liars.So likewife, there are two fpecia! books,by which God will judge all the fons anddaughters of men at the laft day ; and thefeare, Firft, Ihe book of his remembrance,written by himfelf; wherein the lives ofof men, yea, their very thoughts are record¬ed, as David faith,Pfal. xciv. 11. ‘The Lordknoweth the thoughts of men that they arevanity.* And Pfal. cxxxix. 1,—4. SaithDavid, ‘ O Lord ! thou haft fearched me andknown me, Thou knoweft my down-fit¬ting and my up-rifing. Thou underflandeftmy thoughts afar off. Thou compaffeft mypath, and my lying down, and art ac¬quainted with all my ways. There is not aword in my mouth, but io, O Lord ! thou6Yhc Mlack Bookknowefl: it altogether.’ And although thee heart of man,' as Jeremiah faith, Jer. xvii.9, 10.‘is deceitful above all things;' yetGod doth exactly know every turning andcorner thereof; ‘ 1 the Lord, fearch theheart,' faith he, ‘ I try the reins.’ There isnothing can be hid from his eternal all-fce-ing eye.And then, sdly, There is the book of con-fcience, in which is exactly written all ouractions, thoughts, words, and deeds ; andaccording to this book of confcience, andwhat is there written, will the Lord pro¬ceed in judgement, and every man’s con¬fcience (hall be his own judge. Saith God,What haft thou done ? How haft thou livedIn the world ? Why thus and thus have Ilived, faith confcience. Confcience will thenfpeak the truth, and nothing but the truth.O Lord, faith a wicked man’s confcience, 1have difhonoured thy name, I have abufedthy grace and mercy, in turning it to vvan-tonnefs; I have abufed thy creatures bywafteful and riotous fpending, to pleafe andfatisfy my luft, faith the prodigal man’s con¬fcience. And by chambering and wanton-nefs, by gaming and dicing away my pre¬cious time, faith the lafeivious and vo¬luptuous man’s confcience. Thou gaveftof Confcunce,7me times and feafons of grace and mercy,and many gracious opportunites, and foul-advantages, whereby I might have wroughtout my own falvation with fear and trem¬bling and, as St. Peter faith, 1 might have‘ made my calling and election fure’ to myown foul: Put, in (lead .of * working: cutmy falvation with fear and trembling, andmaking my calling and election fure,’ 1 havewrought out my own damnation withouteither fear or wit, and made inyfelf fureof eternal and everlatling condemnation,faith the mere moral, formal, and profaneChriflian’s confcience. Ah! Lord, faiththe diffembling hypocrite’s confcience, Ihave been but an outfide (^hriftian ; I havegone to church, but only as dogs do, forfaflaions’s fake, and to be looked upon andefteemed among my neighbours: 1 havemade a fliew indeed, and pretence of rerligion and holinefs ; but it hath been but amere fiiow : 1 have altogether denied thepower and practice of it by my life andconverfation, as it is 'l it. i. 16. ’They pro-fefs that they know God, but in works,theydeny him, beingaborninablearvd difobedient,and to every good work reprobate.’ Andwhy fo ? Becaufe, as he faith in verfe i t;th,* their minds and confciences are defiled.’s*Ihe Black BookAh ! my c^rfcience told me fevcral timesthat I was hot an hypocrite, a mere paintedfepulchre, fair without and foul within.O ! but I would not hear confcience then,but neglected him. Ah! now my con¬fcience makes me fear him whether I willor not; therefore. Lord, do with me whatthou pleafeft : True and righteous art thouin ad thy doings towards me ; be they everfo harlh. they are but the juft rewards ofmy iniquities And faith the covetousman^s conrcience, the gripping,cruel extort¬ing ufarer’s confcience. Lord, 1 confefs, 1have been a covetous wretch; but 1 havenot coveted after heaven. It hath been mv*whole trade to cheat and cozen others, andto grind the faces of the poor ; all that Icould do to undo others ; but alas for me .what have I done ? I have quite and cleanundone my own foul, and that to all eter¬nity. I have been very cruel and unmerci¬ful to others ; I would not forgive my poorbrethren in the lead. O Lord ! I deferveno mercy at thy hands, the hotteft place inhell would be too cold for me.What have you done with all your wealth,faithGodto rich men, all thefe'great eftatesand pofTeffions which I lent you, or ratherentrufted you with as ftewards ? How have19of Confcience’./yon Improved them ? What of them haveyou laid cut in relieving my poor members ?Have you laid up any thing for eternal life ?0 ! no, faith confcience, 1 have not. Lord,1 have not, but this have I done, I havetreafured up wrath again ft the day ofwrath. My gold and my {liver is rufted,my riches are corrupted, and rich garmentsmoth-eaten, u-s St. James faith, chap. v. 3,,j 4. * My gold and lilver is cankered, and therult of them is now a witnefs againft me,I to condem me, and eats my flefh as it werejl fire.’ And now alfo, ‘ behold the hire of myi labourers, which have reaped down my field,? which 1 have kept back by fraud, crieth ;si and the cries of them who have reaped, are1 entered into the earsof the Lord ofSabaoth.”1 1 have lived in pleafurc upon the earth, andI been wanton, and 1 have nourifhed my heartas in a day of {laughter. I told you/aith con-■ i fcience, that for all your greatnefs and de-[| lights, you muft come to judgement andI give an account to God of all your acHons,and for all your wealth, and how, andwhich way you fpent every penny that helent you. Did 1 not tell you, faith confcience?True it is, my confcience told me ; but Iflighted confcience, as a thing of no valueor account. Ah miferable man that I was 1ioIhe Black Bookto flight this good voice of confcience. Wounto me ! my punifliment is lefs than myiniquites deferve. Thus and thus will men’sconfciences deal with them before the Lord.When as Peter denied his Lord andMailer, his confcience let him alone cnce ;yea twice; but the third time the cockcrew, and Peter’s heart fmote him for whathe had done, and he went forth and weptbitterly. Peter did not go about to flopthe mouth of confcience, as Judas did, andfo hanged himfelf: No, Peter clofed withthe voice of his confcience, and fo by trueand unfeigned repentance, obtained mercy.So likewife David, when the prophetNathan, in 2 Sam. xii. 13. had by theparable of the ewe-lamb, ftiewred David theevil ©f his fins, prefently David was con¬vinced in his confcience, of the horridnefsof his fins. ‘ And David faid unto Nathan,I have finned againfl the Lord : have mercyupon me/ faith David, Pfal. li. (the pfalmof his repentance') ‘ According to thyloving-kindnefs ; according unto the mul¬titude of thy tender mercies, blot out mytranfgreflions; walk me thoroughly frommine iniquity, and cleanfe me from my fin :For l acknowledge my trangrefimns, andtny fin is ever before me Againfl: thee, evenncf Ccnfcience,thee only, have I finned, and done this evilin thy fight.’ David had a very tender con-fcience, for, when he cut off Saul’s fkirt,his heart frnote him, his confcience accufedhim, as yo.u may fee \ Sam. xxi. 5. O buthow many wicked men are there now,whofe confciences tell them over and over,again and again of their fins, and yet for allthat they flop their ears againft confcience ?1 how many times doth the beafilydrunkard’s1 confcience, the profane fwearer’s, the Sab-I bathbreaker’s confcience, tell them of theirS fins j yet notwithfUnding for all the checks1 of confcience, they will go on in their fins,; and fill up the meafures of their iniquities,and fo make confcience, to fill up the black: fcroll of indictments againft them, wherebyil they arejall everlaftingly condemned, O ! ifi men would be but convicted in their oon-I fciences of the evil of their ways, whenl‘ their confciences tell them of it! How manythpufands might be brought home by re¬pentance to life eternal, who now run head¬long to their deflruction ! I am perfuadedthat many who cozen and cheat, by under¬mining and overfelling, by ufing falfe andlight weights and meafures cannot chufe,but meet with many checks from their con-12The Black Bookfcicnces. And O that men would be con¬vinced of their great evil.Hear this, O ye that fwallow up the needyby falfe weights and meafures ? O be con¬vinced in thy confcience, make confcience>thy friend now, by forfaking thy evilpractices, left confcience prove thy foe totorment thee for ever. But men, now a-days, inftead of being convinced in theirconfciences of the evil of their ways, areHot aftiamed to commit all manner of a-bominations, and that with greedinefs, andthen lay all the blame upon their poor con¬fciences : And why fo ? It was my confcience,fay they. As many of out diabolical Ranters,Quakers and notorious Libertines, in thrfeour days, have laid all their impieties andand horrid blafphemies upon their con¬fciences. Afk them but the reafon whythey deny Chrift and the fcriptures, andcaft off the ordinances and miniftry ofCkrift, and live as they lift, and refufefubje&ion to magiftrates, and in their ac¬tions become worfe than beafts ; wdiy, theycio hold fuch damnable and devilifh opi¬nions, both againft God and Chrift ; yea a-gainft humanity itself? Aik them the rea¬fon of thele things, and what do they fayIt is frori! the light within us, it is the li-i /13rt ......cj Conjckr.ee.berty of our cfonfciences: And have wenet fought for liberty of confcience ? Ah !| curfed wretches, the light within you isdarknefs; Is this, the liberty of thy con¬fcience ? No, no, tins is the liberty of thy| lulls, and the delufiohs of the devil. Thou; hah feared thy confcicnce with a hot iron ;bul yet at lalt thy confcience, tho’ thou haftdefiled it ever fo much, will put the faddleupon the right horfe, aad charge thee home; with all the blame. Is liberty of confcience,J a liberty to fin ? No, God forbid, ‘ Shall wefin,’ faith St.Paul,Rom vi i. that grace wayabound O God torbid, I dare not, faith ai gracious heart, confcience tells me I muft:: not. ‘ How Cull 1,’ faith Jofeph, Gen, xxx.; 7. ‘ do this great wickednefk and fin againftI God ? live grace of God,’ faith the a#oftle.Tit, ii. m, 1 a- ‘ that brings falvation,’ teach-:i eth men ‘ to deny ungodlinefs and world-ly lufts, and to live (oberly, righteoufly,g and godly in this prefent world,’ and not to1 live as we lift, which is a iign of no grace at• all. (A truly tender confcience will be trulytender of commt ting fin, and will have acircumfpect care over himfclf how he walks1 and how lie lives, that fo the name of God|i and Chri(t be not blafphemed ; ‘ But, in'The Black Bookthefe hft and word of times, wherein men/as St. Paul faith, ‘ make fhipvvreck of faithand a good confcience / Men have notminded this at all, but have taken full li¬berty to commit all imnner of fins. AndI pray God that th/s fin be not charged up¬on thofe, who, inftead of reftraining menfrom fin, and punifhing them for fin, havetolerated them in fin, if not countenancedthem to fin. But, let men take heed howthey fin, beeaufe grace abounds : For, faiththe apoftlc, Heb. x. 26, 27. ‘ Jf we fin wil¬fully, after that we have received the know¬ledge of the truth, there remaineth no morefscrificc for fin, but a certain fearful look¬ing for of judgement. For the wrath ofGod,’ Rom. i, 8. ‘ is revealed from heavenagainil all ungodlinefs and unrighteoufnefsof med.” Read thefe two texts, all ye thattake liberty to fin, becaufe the grace of Godhath abounded. How will ye be able tolook God and confcience in the face : cer-tiiniy you will never be able to do it, urv-lefs you repent; for if men will fin willing¬ly, notu ithftanding all thefe cheeks of con¬fidence, there confciences will condemn thembefore the Lord. For certain it is, there isa confcience in every man that fees and ob-ferves, and takes notice of all his ways, and*5i'J’ ConfacKcc*will keep a jufl account of them, and fo bea witnefs either for or affainft the foul, at| ttte day of judgement. What was it thatI made the apok'es fo joyful in all their trou-j bles and prefecutions ? Was it not the wit-nefs of their confciences ! See 2 Cor. i. 12.c Our rejoicing is this,* faith St. Paul, ‘the| teftimcny of our confciences.’ What was it| that made Paul and Silas ling in prifon for| joy ? Was it not, that their confciences toldi 1 them that they were happy and bleffed men,it notwithftanding all their fufferings and" i reproaches.Now what confidence is, I fhall brieflyI fhow you, and fo conclude. Confcienee is aI thing with which God endued the foul ofi man by creation, and is for our comfort, if1 we live as we ought to do; but will be a;;i dreadful terror to them that live and die inGcil their fins. For this confcience was in AdamI before the fall, tho’ not as acondemner tillf] his fall; for where there is no fin, whatn5'!1! needeth an accufer ? So long as Adam keptpf!the commandments of God, there was nocaufe of confcience to condemn him : But,as foon as Adam trangrefsed, it flew in hisface, which made him flee from the face ofGod, as you may fee, Gen. iii. 7. 8.. ‘ l heeves of them both were opened/ their con-i67be Black Bookfciences sccufed them, and they hid them--fcives. And this confcience is only in menand women, for brute beaiis, wanting rea-fon, are not capable ot confcience, and thebeafts when they die, there is an end oftheta. But, it is not fo with man, for con¬fcience, in man fclloweth the man fartherthan the grave. For, if men might burytheir confciences with them in their graves,they might be happy notwithftanding alltheir abufes of confcience ! For man often¬times, againft all reafon, enquiry, or con¬fcience, doth worfe than the worfl: of hearts.And thi« confciencc keepeth his court inthe heart, and there fits upon the life orthe death of the foul; and according as hefieds every man’s work, fo doth he pafsfentence of condemnation or abfolution,for there is no bribing of confcicece. Con-■tJfcience will Ipeak the truth of every man’sways before the Jdord. be they good or bethey evil: ‘ If our hearts condemn us,’faith St. Paul, * God is greater than ourhearts.’ That is our conicience.And God hath given this power to con¬fcience, becaufe men would have no pleaor excufe betore the Lord. It was notPilate’s wafliing of hi* hands, and fay¬ing, * I am guiltlefs of the blood of thisof Confciencc, 17juft rr.an,’ that could wafti away the guilt1 of Chrift’s blood from his confc.ience;| Pilate’s confcience told him, that Chrift; was a juft man, and that he faw no caute of1 death in him at ail, Luke xxiii. 24. And; yet curfed Pilate, contrary to the light of! his own confcience, delivered the Lord ofI Life into the hands of bloody men, to becrucified, and fo brought the guilt of bisj bioocl upon his own foul.I He that will not endure confcience toreprove him for his fins, certainly loves to; go to he'll without controul; and he that'1 will not endure cqnfcience to tell him of.this fins here, 11)all, whether he will or not,jfufter fufficient torment for his fins here-i alter ; for an evil confcience is an hell tothe foul here, and (hall be the hell of hells1 hereafter.Now then, if there be fuch a thing innman as confcience, and that this confciencc,ilihali either jnftify or condemn him, then*"let every man take heed how he orders hisiconverfation in the world. Do not giveileave to yourfelves to think, fay or do anything, but what you are willing to own be¬fore the Lord at the laft day. Therefore,l:let every one of us fo thick, "and fo do,that we may not have confciencc to con-*IScIhe Black Bookdemn us; but let us live as thofe that ex*pect to have confcience witnefs for thembefore the Lord, that with godly finceritythey have had their converfation in theworld. But what multitudes are there inthis world, that live as there were no con¬fcience at all, neither God nor devil, neither heaven nor hei!; ‘ whofe God is theirbelly, and whofe end is de(lru<ftion,’ as St.Paul faith, Phil, iii g. ‘ Who declare their!fin as Sodom, and hide it not. Wo untthem,’ faith the Lord, * they have reward¬ed evil to themfelves,’ Ila. iii. 6, 1 his maybe laid of thoufands of us, whofe coun¬tenance teftify againil them, their wantion]carriages, painted faces, naked breafts,powdered locks, and other antic fafhions, tefti-|fy againll thoufands of both men and women, that they do little mind this greaijitruth, that confcience can and will decbrtlall their doings to God. Proud Harnansdrunken Nabals, whoring Jezebels, declare!their lirt as Sodom, and hide it not. Andas for conlcience, they turn him off- Butlet thefe miferable wretches know this, a.the prophet faith, ‘ Wo unto them, wh«have rewarded evil unto themfelves.’ The;have a long black, bloody bill, for cpnfcilenceto open againll them it the laft day o•Ulitiof Confdtnce* 19i the term of their lives ; as foon as ever their'! fouls are departed from their bodies, fen-tence {hall be paffed againft them, accord¬ing to their light, and the teftimony oftheir own confcience.Seeing then, confcience will give an ac¬count of every one’s ways, let us not flightconfcience; let us not flop the mouth of con¬science, feeing confcience can and will foeak,and tell us what we are. Many there areifhat go about to iicp the mouth of cor.fci-Jence, when confcience deals plainly withthem, and tells them of their flns : O ! theycannot endure to hear of that. But re¬member the miferable end of Judas: Whatiifaid Judas* confcience to him ? Thou haft■betrayed thy Lord and Mafter for a little'filver: Ah covetous wretch ! But couldjudas’ fllver ftop the mouth of his confci-cnce? No, Juda*’ conicience fo terrified him,rthat he flung in the money again, and fowent and hanged himfelf.I1 So likewife, remember the fearful flatebf Spin, and many others, whofe confci-lence made them poffefs the wrath of Godthere on earth. ‘ A wounded fpirit,* faithSolomon, Prov. viii.'14. ‘ who can bear?*A tormenting and condemning confidencelivho can endure ? O ! there is no refifling20'Tht Black Book*0!icof confcience ! it is God’s vicegerent in thefoul: When confcience ipeaks threateninglanguage, to many, for luch and fuch fins,the', feek to turn confcience out of doors.But becaufe they cannot poffibiy do this,they ilrive to ftop his mouth, by runningwilfully into fins, like men that defperate-ly give up their fouls to the devil, and fomake fhipwreck of faith, confcience, fouland all forever. And then fol!o»cth (whatwe have feen by woeful exoerience; felf-llabbing, felf-han^ing, drowning, or poifon-ing, or lorr.e fuch like accnrfed end. O con-fider this, all ye that forget God, and makeno confcience of your ways ; you under¬mine your own falvation.—Men deal withconfcience as Felix did with Paul, x^cfs xxiv,15. They will hear confcience fo long as he:fpeaks grofs; but, when confcience tells: jthem roughly of their fins, their darling finsjthen they have enough of confcience, andfo put him off till they be at better leifure.j:;When there was no king in Ifrael, every!;man did what was good in his own eyes ;;ifo, where there is no confcience alive inthe foul, men live as they lift. But yet for.all this, confcience will fpeak home at laft.If thou art a drunkard, or an adulterer,or an unjuft dealer, or whatfoever fin it isic,:of Confcience,2 lthat thou art guilty of, confcience will makeli it known. And if at lalt confcience dothi| condemn, thou (halt never befaved But,on the contrary, though men and devilsfay thou art an hypocrite or the like, yet.if thou haft the teftimony of thy confcience,God will own thee as juft and righ-::iteous. One dram of peace of confcience itvi worth a thoufand worlds : What would the; , damned in hell give for a little of this laft-iing joy, this peace which paffeth all under-ftanding : The want of this is hell, yea*worfe than hellThink upon this, O ye great ones of theiworid, who live in pleaiure ! remember thatf there is a confcience, and that there is a God,land that thou haft a precious and immortalfjfoul, which if thy confcience witnefs againft,rifhali be thrown into hell. You that eat thejtjfat and fweet of the earth, and drink winehin bowls, and clothe yourfelves in fiik, re-nember this, that confcience takes notice ofill thy ways, of the pride of thy heart, of thevanity of thy life, and letteth all down in hisBlack Book.’ You that, like the harlot,|?rov. vii. cry, ‘Let us take our fill of loveihnd pleafure,’ confider that alUhefe thingsr -nuft have an end. When all is done, thebell muit toll, and‘you rauft all dance after/22Ihe Black Bookdeath’s pipe, vvhoare no’-v linging and Twing¬ing yourfelves in worldly pleafures and de¬lights. O ! if God would fay to any foul ofyou, as he did to the rich fool in Luke xiv.20. ‘ This night thy foul fhall be taken fromthee.* It (hall little advantage you then toweep and cry, O ! that I were out of thefeinfernal and eternal flames! O ! that I hadhearkened when time was, to the voice ofChrift and mine own confcience.The fighs and groans ©f dying men are of¬ten very (ad ; but the lighs and groans of thedamned in hell can never be imagined or ex-preffed. O ! tonfider this, ye that fin awayconfcience, that quaff and drink away con¬fcience, accompanying one another id fin ;take heed you be not one day to weep overone another’s backs in hell. Certainly wholecoaclduls of gallants will be tumbled downto hell; the Lord awaken your fleepy deadconfciences before you go hence and be nomore feen ! What pity.is it, that perfonsthat bear the image of God, and are, as itwere in. outfide glory and beauty, gods a-bove others: What pity is it, that inch beau¬ty fhould come to be embraced Dy ugly loth-fame devils in hell. Thoufands there arethat court and fport, pine and pant awaydieir time whole end is to be burned, andI■1of Confcitnee* 23• 1 fiiali at lafl: perifla in hell. Fruidefs fig-trees1 they are, that bear nothing but leaves, ‘ Cutl!tj them down,’ fays Chrift, ‘ and call them in-1 to the fire.’ To perifti in a prifon or on a1 dunghill, is nothing ; to die for want ofj food is nothing: Lazarus did fo, whilfl:I Dives, with his delicious fare, died on his! bed of downs, and was call into hell. Youthat ly on beds of ivory, and have your: hangings of needle-work, if you get not! Chrift and a good confcience, hell ihall be1 your fate, and devils your companions, totorment you for ever. ‘ And who ftiall bei able to Hand in the day of the Lord’s wrath?1 And who can dwell with everlafting burn-]| mgs rCompanions in fin, ftiall be companions inihell, and thofe that can Iport and play onewith another, Hull in hell drag and torment1 one another, and curfe the day that everI they faw one another, and cry out to onei another, O what miferable wretches were: jwe! to lofe the heaven of heavens for a little’vain delight, the love and favour of God,for the love and favour of wicked compa-i nions, in whofe prefence we were more de¬lighted, than in the ererlafting love of God,whefe plcafures are pleafufes for evermore.jWhat profueth it now, that we have had/2 4Ibc Black Bookt tsfe.our wine, and our mufic, our fill and ourfull of earthly delights ? O wretched crea¬tures that we are! Who fhall deliver us fromthis death,thefe miferable torments? Wo un¬to us ! we have rewarded evil to our ownfouls, we are banifhed for ever from the pre¬fence of the Lord, and have utterly loftthat inward peace of confcience, the wantwhereof, addcth torments to bur torments,and maketh us in ourmiferies more exceed¬ingly miferable. Now the Lord give everyone of us this peace, this joy ; the which,that we may all have, the peace of God,which paffcth all underftanding, keep ourhearts and minds in the love and knowledgeof Jefus Chrift ; and vvafh and purge onrconfcicnces from dead works, that we mayferve the living God. Which that wemay all do, the grace of our Lord JefusChrift be with us ail. Amen.Take heed to yourfelves what confcience you have.For confcience will damn, and confcience will fave.FINIS.J. isleufon printer.