GRINNINGMABE EASY<99Oil,FUNNY BICK’SUNRIVALLED COLLECTIONOFESTS, JOKES, BULLS, EPIGRAMS &cWith many other descriptions ofIT & HUMOUR.^ ■.»IGRINNING MADE EASY.| Mr. Serjeant Gardner, heing lame of one leg,nd pleading before the late Judge Fortescue, whoad little or no nose, the judge told him, he was’raid he had but a lame cause of it. Oh ! my lord,lid the serjeant have but a little patience, and I’ll•arrant I prove every thing as plain as the nose on!bur face !|; Hume the historian, passing one day by the back|| Edinburgh Castle, where the ground is veryllvampy, and the foot patli narrow, inadvertentlyunbled into the bog, where he stuck, not being:de to extricate himself. A washer-woman hap-ming to pass at the time, looked at him, and was•avelling on, when he shouted after her to lend himiV assistance. Na, na, (replied the woman) youre Hume the Deist. Well, well, no matter, re-! led he—you know, good woman, your ChristianI mrity commands you to do good even to your en-nies. Na, I winna, said she, unless you will first?peat the Creed and the Lord’s Prayer. Havingo alternative, he was forced to accede to the piousroman’s terms.Two English gentlemen, some time ago, visited4the field of Bannockburn, so celebrated for the todefeat of the English army, by Robert the Bru<with an army of Scottish heroes, not one fouitheir number. A sensible country man pointout the positions of both armies, the stone wh(the Bruce’s standard was fixed during the batt&c.—Highly satisfied with hisattention, the gentmen, on leaving him, pressed his acceptance oicrown-piece,—Na, na, said the honest man, returing the money, keep your crown-piece—the Enlish have paid dear enough already for seeing tfield of Bannockburn.Judge Toler, afterwards Lord Norbury, whcseverity was at one time proverbial, was at a pulie dinner with Curran the celebrated Irish lawy*Toler observing Curran carving a piece of cornbeef, told him, if it was hung beef he would try iIf you try it, my Lord, r-eplied Curran, 1 am suit will be hung.A gentleman coming into a coffee-room one stornnight, said. He never saw such a wind in Ilife. Saw a wind, says a friend, I never heardsuch a thing as seeing a wind; pray, what waslike? Like answered the Gentleman, like to ha’blown my hat off.A young lady going into a barrack-room at FoGeorge, saw an officer toasting a slice of bread cthe point of his sword. On which she exelaime5 - • <I think, Sir, you have got the staff' of life on theijpoint of death.One day, Socrates, having for a long time en¬dured his wife’s brawling, went out of his house,and sat down before the door, to rid himself of herimpertinence. The woman, enraged to find all hermolding unable to disturb his tranquility. Hung thecontents of a chamber-pot on his head. Those thatappened to see it, laughed heartily at poor Sen¬ates; hut this philosopher observed, smiling, ‘ Ibought, indeed, after so much thunder .we shouldave rain.”A clergyman chose for his text the following-words : ‘ Which of you will go up with me to Ram-th-Gilead ? ’ Then pausing, he again and again re-eated the words, when a gallant tar started fromis seat, and looking round him with an eye full ofndignation, he exclaimed. Will none of you go upwith the worthy gentleman ; Then, d—n me, Iwill go myself.An ol.d beggar, pretending to he dumb, wasthrown off his guard by the question. How’ manyyears have you been dumb ; and answered, Five•j years last June, please your honour.A countryman sowing his ground, two smartfellows riding by, one of them called to him withan insolent air. Well honest fellow, ’Lis your buisnes;to sow, hut we reap the fruits of your labour. To6which the country man replied, ’Tis very likely yoimay, for I am sowing hemp.One told another, who did not use to he verywell clothed, that his new coat was too short foihim : That’s true, answered he hut it will be longenough before I get another.A proud parson and his man, riding over a com¬mon, saw a shepherd tending his flock, in a newcoat ? The parson asked, in a haughty tone, whogave him that coat? The same people, (said theshepherd) that clothe you—the parish. The par¬son nettled a little, rode on murmuring a consider¬able way, and sent his man back to ask the shep¬herd, if he would come and live with him, for hewanted a fool. The man went to the shepherd ac¬cordingly, and delivered his master’s message, con¬cluding that his master really wanted a fool. Areyou going away then ? said the shepherd. No, an¬swered the other. Then you may tell your mas¬ter, replied the shepherd, that his living won’t main¬tain three of us.An arch prisoner, who had an unfavourablecountence, being brought to the har to he tried forhorse-stealing, the judge immediately cried. Oh,here is a noted villain, I am sure ! Why, Sir Ican see the rogue in your face. Ah, my Lord,says the fellow, I wonder at that: I did not knowmy face was a looking-glass till now.- Mr Hare, formerly the envoy of Holland, hadapartments iti the same house with Mr Fox, and,lljlike his friend Charles, had frequent dealings withI the monied Israelites. One morning, as he waslooking out of his window, he observed several of'the tribe assembled at the door for admittance,fPray, gentlemen, says he, are you Fox hunting,or Hare hunting this morning ?An Irish officer had the misfortune to he dread-ifully wounded at Waterloo. As he lay on theground, an unfortunate soldier, who was near him,land was also severely wounded, made a terrible how-liing, when the officer exclaimed, D—n your eyes,hat do you make such a noise for ? Do yonhink there is nobody killed hut yourselt ?When Mr, Horne Tooke was called before the;ommissioners to give an account of the particularsf his income ; having answered a question whichas asked, one of the wise men said, peevishly, thate did not understand his answer—Then, saidboke, as you have not half the understanding ofnother man, you ought at least to have double thealienee.When the Scotch Court of Justiciary passed[sentence of fourteen years banishment on MrMuir, some persons in the gallery began to hiss.I'The Lord Justice Clerk turned round in a greatij fury, and ordered the macer, who stood behind hischair, to take the persons that were hissing intocustody. The macer, with great coolness, answer-My Lord, they are all hissing.Sir Boyle Roach, in one of the debates on thequestion of the Union, made a speech in favour ofit, which he concluded by saying, that it wouldchange the barren hills into fruitful vallies.A man walking along after a woman, whose ele¬gant shape excited his admiration, was not a littledisappointed when he got up with her and saw herordinary face—If, Madam, said he, you were ashandsome before as you are behind, I would kissyou. You may, replied the lady, kiss where youthink I am handsomest.When Buchanan was tutor to James I. hefound it necessary, one day, to give his most sacredMajesty a flogging. A lady of the court, being inthe next room, and overhearing what passed, ran in,and catching the young king in her arms, askedBuchanan how he could lift his hand against theLord’s anointed ; to which he replied, with greatcoolness, Madam, I have whipped his arse, younay kiss it if you please.Alphonso, King of Arragon, to whom a Jewwished to sell a picture of our Saviour for five hun¬dred ducats, said, “ You are much more uncon¬scionable than your ancestors, who sold the originalfor thirty pieces.”A man and his wife, as a proof of their fondnessfor each other, made a mutual vow, that, on eitherof their deaths, the survivor should remain in a statejof celibacy. The husband having died, the widowi|kept her vow, religiously, for about a twelvemonth..At the end of this period, however, she began tojirepent of it, and being a Catholic, she applied tothe priest, to know whether she could not be releas¬ed from it. This having, as might be expected,been negatived, the good woman thought of appeal-ng to a higher power, and accordingly she dailyaid her devotions to an image of the Virgin, whobe hoped would, by some sign, sanction her secondrriage. On one of those occasions, when, asusual, she fervently asked the Virgin whether shemight not lawfully marry a second time, a wag,who had concealed himself under the image, an-i|swered. No !—On which the devotee immediatelyeplied. Hold your tongue, you bastard ; I am speak¬ing to your mother.The Captain of one of the British frigates a manof undaunted bravery, had a natural antipathy to acat. A sailor, who from misconduct had been or¬dered a flogging, saved his back by presenting tohis Captain the following petition:By your Honour’s command,A culprit I stand— *An example to all the ship’s crew ;10I am pinion’d and stript, •And condemn’d to be whipt;And, if 1 am flogg’d 'lis my dueA cat, I am told.In abhorrence you hold ;Your Honour’s aversion is mine!If a cat with one tailMakes your stout heart to fail,O, save me from one that has nine !Two boys, belonging to the chaplains of two dif¬ferent men of war, entertaining each other with ai»account of their respective manners of living—Howoften. Jack, says the one, do yon go to prayers 0Why, answered Jack, we pray when we are afraid!of a storm, or going to fight! Aye, quoth theother, there is some sense in that; but my mastermakes us go to prayers when there is no more oc¬casion for it than for my jumping overboard.A man having been capitally convicted at theOld Bailey, was, as usual, asked what he had tosay why judgement of death should not pass againsthim ? Say ! replied he, why I think the joke hasbeen carried far enough already, and the less thatis said about it the better—Ifjou please. Sir, we’lldrop the subject.Advertisement from a London Paper—Wantedfor a wine-merchant’s housa in the city, as a por¬ter, an athletic man, of a serious countenance, a11i i’diaracter, and of the Protestant religion ; mast at-end-prayers twice a day, and divine worship four.’nnes on Sunday; he able to bear confinement, havehe fear of God before his eyes, and be master forwo hundred weight. Wages fourteen shillings abiveek, and find himself.A man seeing in the street an old woman whorove some asses, said. Adieu, mother of asses,Idieu, adieu, my son, answered she.A Quaker was examined before the Board ofxcise, respecting certain duties ; the Commission-s thinking themselves disrespectfully treated byis thee-and thouing, one of them with a sternJiDuntenauce, asked him—Pray, Sir, do you know>r what we sit here ? Yea, replied Nathan, I-to—some of you for a thousand, and others forventeen hundred and fifty pounds a year.Comparisons of Drunkenness.—A man is said toas drunk as an owl, when he cannot see—asunk as a sow, when he w'allows in the dirt—asunk as a beggar, when he is very impudent—asolrunk as the devil, when he is inclined to mischief,ad—as drunk as a Lord, when he is every thinglat is bad.Walking Stewart having given an account ofis being cast away on an unknown coast, thus ex-Hrosses himself: ‘ After walking a considerable; ay up the country, we saw, to our inexpressiblesatisfaction, a man hanging on a gibbet. This de¬light alibied us by this cheering sight is inconceiv¬able, for it convinced us that we were in a civilizedcountryWhen the Earl of Clancartie was Captain of aman of war, he lost his Chaplain. The FirstLieutenant, a Scotchman, announced his death tihis Lordship, adding, he was sorry to inform hiithat the chaplain died a Roman Catholic. Well,so much the better, said his Lordship. Oot awamy Lord, how can you say so of a Breetish Cler¬gyman ? Why, replied his Lordship, because Ibelieve I am the first Captain that ever could boastof a Chaplain who had any religion at all.An attorney being employed to draw the Testa¬ment of a rich man, was requested to woid it insuch a manner, that no room might be left for con¬testation among his heirs. That quoth the man oflaw, is imposible. Can I go beyond oui Saviourwhose Testament has been a perpetual soure of con¬test for these eighteen hundred years ?The late learned Lord Karnes, one day, aftercoming out of the Court of Edinburgh, went tomake water at a place where the centinel on dutyassumes a power of levying a fine for such trans¬gression. My Lord said the soldier, you are fined.For what P For pissing at this place. How much P| Ttn'bfcjjfcnce, my Lord. The re is six-pence for, you,J then. Sir; and remember you owe me a piss.Mr Ogilvy, a Scottish Clergyman, at Lunan,in Forfarshire, had a great deal of eccentricity ini his character and manner.—One Sunday when he1 was in the middle of his sermon, an old woman, whoi| kept an alehouse in the parish, fell asleep. Her|i neighbour jogged her, in order to awaken her. The| Minister seeing this, said. I'll waken her fast en-iii ough ; and immediately giving a loud whistle, cri-tif ed out ‘ Janet! a bottle of ale and a dram !”> ‘ Coming,. Sir,’ said the old lady, starting out ofsj| her nap.The Sexton of a parish-church in Shropshire in-iis sisted on a poor man, who had lost his leg by am-fil putation, paying sixteen pence for burying it. The4jj man appealed to the Rector, who said that he couldnot relieve him in the present case ; but he wouldconsider in his fees when the remainder of his bodycame to be buried.Epitaph on a Physician.Here Docter Fisher lies interr’d.Who filled the half of this church-yard.A certain bruising Parson having been examin-!fl ed as a witness in the Court of King’s Bench, thej)iadverse Counsel attempted to browbeat him; Ihi think you are the bruising Parson, said he. I am.14said the divine ; and if you doubt it. I’ll give it youunder my hand,A gentleman happening to be in the stable be¬longing to an inn in Loudon, met a most active fel¬low officiating as hostler. The gentleman enquir¬ed where he came from? Yorkshire, was the re¬ply. How long have you been here as ostler ?Thirteen years. What! you a Yorkshireman, andso long a servant: why, I should have supposed youwould have been master ere this time. Ay, Sir,but master is Yorkshire too.Hugo Arnot, author of the History of Edin¬burgh, &c. was a perfect walking skeleton. Oneday he was eating a split dried haddock, or, as itis called in Scotland, a spelding, when Harry Er-skine came in. You see, said Hugo, I am notstarving. I must own, i-eplied the other, that youare very like your meat.An Irish soldier once returning from battle inthe night, marching a little way behind his com¬panion, called out to him, Hollo, Pat, I have catch’da Tartar ! Bring him along then ! bring him along iAye, but he won’t come. Why, then, come away ,without him. By Saint Patrick, but he won’t letme.Lord Somers, when Chancellor, hired a smallbox near Twickenham common, in which parish Mr ,Johnson, secretary of state for Scotland, built a15beautiful villa. The chancellor of England invit¬ed the secretary of Scotland to a convivial dinner;and Johnson, as the glass was circulating, told along tale of a countryman of his.own, and woundup his story by saying that the person was a d—dknave. The chancellor stared at him, and exclaim¬ed, It is strange for you, Mr Johnson, to call aScotchman a knave.—Take no heed to that, saidthe secretary, for you may depend on it, that we'have more knaves in Scotland that ye have honestmen in England.A gentleman being asked his opinion of the sing¬ing of a lady who had not the purest breath, said,that the words of the song were delightful, but hedid not much admire the air.What objection can you have to me (said a wife-of Bath to her husband) it is absolutely impossiblefor two people to be more of one mind—you wantto be master, and so do I rMacklin the player, once going to one of the fireoffices to insure some property, was asked by theclerk how he would please to have his name enter¬ed ? Entered, replied the veteran, why, I am on¬ly plain Charles Macklin, a vagabond, by act ofParliament; but, in compliment to the times, youmay set me down Charles Macklin, Esq. as theyare now synonimous terms.A celebrated physician being sent for by a lady16who imagined herself very ill, she slept too sound,and hud a very uncommon flow of spirits. Makeyourself perfectly easy Madam, said the docter, fol¬low my prescription, and you shall soon have noneof these things to complain of.Two friends, who had not seen each other a greatwhile, meeting Ly chance, one asked the other howhe did? He replied, that he was not very well,and was married since they had last met. That isgood news indeed. Nay, not so very good neither,for I married a shrew. That is had, too. Not sohad, neither, for I had two thousand pounds withher. That is well again. Not so well neither,for I laid it out in sheep, and they all died of the lirot. That was hard, in truth. Not so hard neither,for I sold the skins for more than the sheep cost me.Aye that made you amends. Not so much ame ndsneither, for I laid out my money in a house, and itwas burned. That was a great loss, indeed. Not 1 *jso great a loss, neither—for my wife was burnedin it! ' i |A religious English gentleman lately advertisedfor a coachman, and had a great number of appli¬cations. One of them he approved of, and told ihim, if his character answered, he would take him .on the terms which they had agreed: But, said (he, my good fellow, as I am rather a particularman, it may be proper to inform you, that every17; evening, alter the business in the stable is done, 1shall expect you to come to my house for a quarterof an hour, to attend family prayers—to this I sup¬pose you can have no objection ? Why, as to that.Sir, (replied the fellow) I does not see much to sayagainst it, but I hope you’ll consider it in my[wages.An English gentleman being taken ill of the yel¬low fever at Jamaica, a lady, whom he had marri¬ed that island, indirectly hinted to him, in thepresence of an Irish physician, who attended him,the propriety of making his will, in a country whereapeople are so apt to die. The physician, thinkingihisjudgement called inquestion, tartly replied, Tru-,ly. Madam, I wish you would tell me that country[[■where people do not die, and I will go and end myidays there.A man being asked by his neighbours, how hisfe did? made this answer: Indeed, neighbour,! the case is pitiful, my wife fears she shall die, andfear she will not die, which makes a most discon-olate house.A great crowd being gathered about a poor cob¬bler who had just died in the street, a man askedlexander Stevens what was to be seen ? Only aCobler’s End, replied he.Bayle says that a woman will inevitably divulgeAUclvwifISevery secret with which she is intrusted, except one,and that is— her own age.An Irish soldier, who came over with GeneralMoore, being asked if he met with much hospitalityin Holland ? O yes, replied he, too much : I wasin the hospital almost all the time I was there.The Duchess of York being in want of a laun-dres, desired the housekeeper to look out for someperson to fill that situation, A decent looking wo¬man was accordingly recommended ; hut the house¬keeper objected to her, and, in the Duke’s presenceobserved, that she was a soldier’s wife, and thatthese people were generally bad characters. What’sthat you say, (replied the Duke) a soldier’s wife !pray what is your mistress?—Engage the womanthis instant.t In a great storm at sea, when the ships crewwere all at prayers, a boy burst into a violent fit oflaughter; being reproved for his ill-timed mirth,and asked the reason of it. Why, said he, I waslaughing to think what a hissing the boatswain’sred nose will make when it comes into the water. .This ludicrous remark set the crew a-laughing, in- |spired them with new spirits, and by a great exer¬tion they brought the vessel safe into port.The following curious paragraph, in honour ofthe Dutch physicians, was lately inserted in one ofthe London PaperI he mortality in Groningen, |I)19I Delh, and Ilotterdan), was atiirst very great; buti after the death of the three physicians, it is statedi; to have abated very considerably.’’Chateauneut, keeper of the seals of Louis XIII.I when a boy of only nine years of age, was asked) many questions by a bishop and gave very prompti answers to them all. At length trelatesaid, 1 willgive you an orange if you will tell me where Godis ?—My Lord, replied the boy, I will give youilwo oranges, if you will tell me where he is not!During the great Frederick of Prussia’s last pain¬ful illness, that eminent physician Dr Zimmerman,fof Hanover, attended him. One day, when heMwaited upon his Majesty, the King said to him,( You, Sir, I suppose, have helped many a man intotnother, world. Not so many, replied the doctor,s your Majesty, nor with so much honour to my¬self.An apothecary in Durham has the followingords written in his shop-window: ‘ Dying stuffsold here.”A stranger, who had acquired the habit ofstand-[jino' long on one leg, came to Lacedemon to see tireity. Exhibiting this trick to a Spartan, he toldrim, vauntingly. You could not preserve that pos-ure so long. I know that, replied the Lacede-ouian, but a goose can.Mrs Siddons, in performing the character ofJane Shore, having arrived at the conclusion of thataffecting tragedy, where she says, ‘ Now I die ! 1die !” falls down, nature being supposed entirely ex¬hausted.—A sailor, perched on the front of theshilling gallery, forgetting that the distress of theactress was feigned roared out to the pit. Ho ! whydon’t some of you lubbers in that there hold handthe poor woman a can of grog, since she is so badly ? ’Dr Franklin, when last in England, used pleas¬antly to repeat an observation of his negro-servant,when the Doctor was making the tour of Derby¬shire, Lancashire, &c. ‘ Every thing, Massa,work in this country ; water work ; wind work ; firework ; smoke work ; dog work ; (he had noticed thelast at Bath) man work ; bullock work ; horse work ;ass work; every thing work here but the hog; heeat, he drink, he sleep, he do nothing all day, hewalk about like a gentleman !”One of the people called Quakers, equally re*markable for his gallantry to the fair sex, as for hisurbanity of manners, was one day walking in thestreets of Edinburgh with a handsome young ladywho remarked to him, that the heat of the day wasoppressive; on which the Quaker recommended herto throw off a petticoat. The lady replied. Be¬tween you and I, friend G s, I have but oneon. And betw'een thee and me, replied broad¬brim, even that is one too many lA very young officer, striking an old grenadierof his company for some supposed fault in perform¬ing his evolutions, was unable to reach any higherthan his legs. The grenadier, upon this infantineassault, gravely took offhis cap, and holding it overthe officer by the tip, said. Sir, if you were not myofficer, I would extinguish you.Francis I, having imposed a new tax it was re¬ported to him, as a treasonable offence, that thepeople murmured so much as not even to spare hissacred person. Fob ! answered Francis, whyshould they not have amusement for their moneyA citizen dying greatly in debt, it coming tohis creditors’ ears. Farewell, said one there is somuch of mine gone with him. And he carried somuch of mine, said another. One hearing themmake their several complaints, said. Well, I seenow, that tho’ a man can cat ry nothing of his ownout of the world, yet he may carry a great deal ofother men’s.A young fellow in the country, after having anaffair with a girl in the neighbourhood, said, Whatshall I do, Bess, if you prove with child ? Oh !very well, said she for I am to he married to-morrow.i| A Bachelor friend of ours had a fine tortoise,[II which was allowed to creep about the kitchen. Someif time ago he hired a raw country girl, who never hadJ seen nor had of u tortoise in her life. One day he90says to her, * Marget, what’s heeoioe of the tor¬toise?—I have not seen it for some days*” ButMarget ‘ didna ken ought about it.’ ‘ You hadbetter light a candle, and see if it has not got intothe coal-hole : poor thing ! it will be starving forwant of meat.’ A candle was accordingly lighted,and looking over her shoulder, he observed it, as hehad expected, snug among the coals. * Ah, thei’eit is, poor creature !’ said he: ‘ take it out, andplace it near the fire.’ 1 Is that what ye ca’ thetortoise ?” quoth Marget in astonishment: ‘ Od,Sir, I’ve been breaking the coals wi’t this fortnightpast !’A few days ago a hawker, while cheapninghis ha¬berdashery wares, was bawling out, ‘ Here’s thereal good napkins : they’ll neither tear, wear, rubie,nor rive ; throw in the washing, or go back in thepressing. All the water between the rocks of Gib¬raltar and the Cape of Good Hope will not alterthe colour of them. They were woven seven milesbelow ground by the light of diamonds; and thepeople never saw day light but once in the sevenyears. They were not woven by a brosy clumsyapprentice boy, but by a right and tight goodtradesman, who got two eggs, and a cup tea, and aglass of whisky to his breakfast,; and every threadis as long and strong as would hang a bull, or drawa man-of-war ship into harbour.’23A man in the last stage of destitution, came be¬fore the sitting Magistrate, at Lambeth Street, andand stated that having by the operation of the newPoor Laws, been suddenly deprived of parish as¬sistance. he was reduced to such extremity, that ifill not instantly relieved he must be driven to do adeed that his soul abhorred. The worthy Magis¬trate instantly ordered him five shillings from thepoor-box, and after a suitable admonition againstgiving way to despair, asked him what dreadfuldeed he would have been impelled to do, but forthis seasonable relief; ‘ To work,' said the man,with a deep sigh, as he left the office.One day, at the table of the late Dr. Pearse,(Dean of Ely,) just as the cloth was removing, thesubject of discourse happened to be that of an ex¬traordinary mortality amongst the lawyers. ‘ Wehave lost,’ said a gentleman, ‘ not less than sixminent barristers in as many months.’—The Dean,jwho was quiet deaf, rose as his friend finished hisemark, and gave the company grace—4 For this,nd every other mercy, the Lord’s name be praised!’In Salem, Massachusets. after the heavy and.eep snow fall, a man was discovered sticking sticksnto a huge ‘ winter bank of snow.’ On beingsked why he amused himself thus? ‘ Amuse!’aid he, with a voice which betrayed the deepest24anxietj- of mind, ‘ fine amusement! I have lost myshop—it used to stand somewhere near this spot.During the last Assizes, in a case of assault andbattery, where a stone had been thrown by the de- sfendant, the following clear and conclusive evidencewas drawn out of a Yorkshireman :—Did you seethe defendant throw the stone ?—I saw a stone,and 1’ze pretty sure the defendant throwed it.---Was it a large stone ?—I should say it war a lar-geish stone.—What was its size?—I should saysizeable stone.-—Can’t you answer definitely howbig it was'?—I should say it wur a stone of somebigness.— Can’t you give the jury some idea ofthe stone ?—Why, as near as I recollect, it wur isomething of a stol.e.—Can’t you compare it tosome other object ?—Why, if I wur to compare it,so as to give some notion of the stone, I should savit wur as large as a lump of chalk.rnrs.