THEMerry TalesOF THEWise MEN of GOTHAM.To which is added,A COLLECTION of JESTS.STIRLING:PRINTED AND SOLD BY C, RANDAlX,i3oi.THEME R R Y 1 ALESOF THEW I S E MEN OF GO T H A M.T A L i: L^S^IIF.RE v^ere two men of Gotham and ona(A of them was going to Nottingham marketito buy flieep, and both met together on Netting-■fc-am bridge. Well met, faid one to the other,whither are you going ? Avd he that came froa\ fNottingham. Marry, faid he that was going thi¬ther, I am going tojhe market to buy fheep.f<Buy fheep ! laid the other, which way will youbring them home ? Marry, faid the other, I wilt ibring them over this bridge. Bv Robin Hood-fjtid he that came from Nottingham, but thoufhalt not By my maid Margery, faid the other,but I will You (hall not, faid the one ; l will,|faid the other. Then they beat their (laves ona gain ft the other, and then-a^ainll the ground,ns if a hundred fheep had been betwixt them.TIoid there, faid the one. Beware of my fheepileaping over the bridge, (aid the other ( carenor. faid the one. They (hall rdl come this way,]faid the other. But they (ball not, faid the-one.Then faid the other, if thou make much ado, Iwill put my finger in thy mouth, A turd thouwilt, faid therother And as they were in contention, another wife man that belonged to Go¬tham. c imefrom the market with a.lack of mealon his horde ; and feeing his neighbours at ilrifiabout (keep and none betwixt them faid he. Ah!' foohv vTU'ye never learn wit! Then help me,THE MERRY TALES, &c. 3Continued he, to lay this fade upon my fhoulder.They did fo, and he vent to the fide of the bridgeind'fhrtok out the meal into the river, faying,dow much meal is there in my fack, neighbours?Marry, faid one, none Indeed, replied this wifeI nan, even fo much wit is there in your two headsii o drive for that you have not.^-Now, which was;d he wifeft of thefe three ? I leave you to judge.T A L E II.THERE was a man of Gotham that rode toi he market with two bulhels of wheat, and be*raufe his horfe fhould not be damaged by car*vying too great a burden, he was determined toCarry the corn himfelf upon his own neck, and(till kept riding upon his horfe till he arrived at.the end of his journey. Now I will leave you to1 judge what was the wifeit, his horfe or himfelLT ALE III.ON a time the men of Gotham fain would:have pinn’d in the cuckow, that fhe might fmgr all the year ; and in the midd of the town they1 jhad a hedge made round in compafs, and got ajpuckow and put her into it, and faid. Sing here,:^nd you (hall lack neither meat nor drink all'the.year The cuckow, when fhe perceived herielf.iencompaffed within the hedge, fleW away. A1 vengeance on her, faid thefe wife men, we didhot make our hedge high enough.TALE IV.THERE was a man of Gotham who went toNottingham market to fell cheefe; and goingdown the hill to Nottingham bridge one of hischeefes fell out of his wallet, and ran down theShill, Whoj-pfon, faid thp fellow, what can you4. THE MERRY TALES OFrun to the market alone ? I’ll nov/ fend one after *another. Then,laying his wallet down, taking ;out the chetfes he tumbled them down the hill,one after another. Some ran into one bulb,and fome into another. However, he charged 1:them to meet him in the market-place. The 'man went to the market to meet with the cheefes, -and flay’d till the market was almofl over ; thenwent and enquired at his neighbours, if theyfaw his. cheefes come to the market ? .Why, iwho fhould bring them ? laid one. Marry, .themfelves, faid tlie fellow, they knew the wayvery well. A vengeance on them, they ran fofaft, I was afraid they would run beyond the :market; 1 am perfuaded they are by this time vajmoft as far as York. So he immediately rodeto York, but was very much difuppointed.—And to add to it, he never found nor heard of tone of his cheefes.T A L E V.A Man of Gotham bought at Nottingham- tmarket a trevet, or barn iron ; and going home twith it, his (houhlcrs grew weary with the car¬riage. He fet .it down, ami feeing it had 3 feet, ,tfaid, Whorefon. thou bail three feet and i but ;1two, thpu flialt bear me home, if thou wilt; fo. jitfet himfelf down upon it. and faid to it bear me |as long as I have done thee for if thou doll not,thou fhalt ftand ilill for me. 1 he man of Gotham |i(peing that his trevet would not move, Hand flillfaid he, in the. Mayor’s name, and follow me if:«thou wilt, and I can fhow you the right way. ."When he went home, his wife afkc.d him where ;the trevet was ? lie laid, it.,had three legs andTHE WISE MEN OF GOTHAM. $he had but two , and he had taught him the readyway to his houfe ; therefore he might come him-: felf, if he w'ould. _ Where did you leave the tre-■ [vet, faid the woman? At Gotham bridge, faid|: he. So fhe immediately ran and fetched the tre-■ K-et herfeif, dr otherwife fhe muff certainly haveloft it, on account of her hufband’s want of wit.T ALE VI.! A Certain fmith of Gotham had a largewafp’s neft in the ftraw at the end of his forge jand there coming one of his neighbours to havefiis horfe {hod, and the wafps being exceedingjlbufy, the man was flung by one of them. Theiman being gnevoufty affronted, faid, Are youworthy to keep a forge or not, to have menflung with thefe wafps ? O ! neighbour, faid the.jpnith1, be content, and I fhall put them fromi (their neft prefently. Immediately he took a coul-i ter and heated it red hot, and thruft it into the! ftraw at the end of his forge, and fet it on fire,.and burnt it up. Then laid the fmith, I toldthee, I’d fire them out of their neft:.T A L E VII.I ON Good Friday the men of Gotham con-[fulted together what to do with their white her¬rings, fprats, and fait fifb, and agreed, that alliuch ftfh fhould be call info the pond or pool, inthe midft of the town, that the number of themmight increafe againft the next year. Thereforej-every one that had any fifh left, did caft themi immediately into the pond. Then laid one Iihave gotten left fo many red herrings. WellIfaid another, and I have left fo many whitings,i Another immediately cried out, I have as yet$ THE MERRY TALES OFgotten fo many fprats left. And, faid the Iaft,: i1 have gotten fo many fait fillies, let them go itogether in the great pond without any diftinoHtion, and we may be fare to fare like lords the itnext year. At the beginning of the next Lent ithey immediately went about drawing the pond,imagining tiny Ihould have the filh ; bnt were imuch fbrprifed to find nothing but a great eeK,.Ah ! faid they, a mifchief on this eel, for he;}hath eaten up oor filh ; what mull we do whh jhim? faid one to the other. Kill Him, laid jone; chop him in pieces, faid another Nay, !’not fo, faid the other, but let us drown him. ,Be it accordingly fo, replied they all. So they ;immediately went to another pond, and cad the yeel into the water. Lie there, faid thefe wife ;men, and Ihift for thyfelf, fmee you may not iexpert any help from us. So they left the eelto be drowned.TALE VIILON a time the men of Gotham had forgot-]5ten to pay their rents to their landlord. So onefaid to the other. To-morrow mud be pay-day,by whom can we fend our money to our land¬lord ? So one faid to them, I have this day tak¬en a hare, and he may carry it, for he is very cqcick footed ; be it fo replied the red ; he lhallhave a letter, and a large purfe to put our money ,in, and we can direft her the ready way. Whenthe letter wras written, and the money put intoa purfe, they immediately tied them about thehare’s neck, faying, You mud firllgo to Lough- >borough, and then to Leicefter, and at Newark ;is our landlord; then commend us unto him, ;THE WISE MEN OF GOTHAM. 7;md there is his due. The hare, as foon-as (he got5ut of their hands, ran a quite contrary- way*Borne laid, thou mult full go to Loughborough j.hhers faid, let the hare alone, for (he can tell aNearer way than the bed of us; let her go.T ALE IX.I A Man of Gotham that went mowing in theteadow found a large grafshopper. He imme-iiately threw down his icythe, and ran home to.us neighbours, and (aid,-that the devil was there,n the field, and u'as hopping arnonglt the grafs*.{^hen was every man ready, with their clubs and:aves, halberts and other weapons, to kill thefafshopper. When they came almoli to the.idace where the grafshopper w'as, faid one toihe other, let every man crofs himlelf from theevil, for we will not meddle with him, fo theyefu. ned again, and faid, we were hied this dayhat we went no farther. O ye cowards, faidse that left his feythe in the meadow, help mey fetch my feythe. No, anfwered they, it isoo.i to ileep in a whole (kin. It is much betterar thee to lofe thy feythe, than to marr us all.T ALE X.i ON a certain lime there were twelve men of■lotham that went to fi(h ; and forne waded in 1he water, and fome dood on dry land. And injoing home, one faid to the other, we have ven-Ibfed wonderfully in wading, I pray God that.|one of us did come from home to be drowned,flay, marry, faid one to the other, 1st us fee that,-or there did tw elve of us come out. Then theyold themfelves, and every one told eleven. Said1 he one to the other, there is one of us drown*8 THE MERRY TALES OFed. They went back to the brook where theyhad been fifhing, and fought tip and down forhim that was drowned, making great lamenta- •lion. A courtier coming by, aiked what it was;;they fought for, and why they wrere forrowful ?!Oh! faid they, this day we went to fifh in the :brook ; twelve of us came out together, and oneis drowned. Said the courtier, tell how many'ithere be of you. One of them faid eleven ; but (he did not tell himfelf. Well, faid the courtier, hN what will you give me, and l will find the twelfth!f. man ? Sir, faid they, all the money w-e have got. 1 sGive me the money, faid he ; he then began fvwith the firft, and gave him a ftroke over thel;fhoulders with his whip, which made him groan j j tfaying, here is one, and fo he ferved them all, ],and they groaned at the matter. When he came uto the laft, he paid him well, faying, here is the];twelfth man ; God’s bieflmg on thy heart, faid| e.they, for finding our brother.TALE XL . i.A Man of Gotham riding along the high-| -w%y, faw a cheefe, fo drew his fword and prick- ned it with the point, in order to pick it up. A- tnother man came by and alighted, and picked ;it up, and rode away with ir. The man of]Gotham rides back to Nottingham to buy a jsong fword to pick up the cheefe ; and return-1 iing to the place where the cheefe did ly, he i;pulled out his fword, pricking the ground, and <faid. If I had had but this fword, I fhould havehad the cheefe myfelf, but now another bas|L'got it,THE WISE MEN OF GOTHAM. 9T A L E mi.A Man in Gorham that did not love his wife,lid (lie having fair hair, her hufband faid di-|ers times he would cut it off, but durft not do| when fire was awake, fo he refoived to do it■hen flie was afleep ; therefore one night he10k up a pair of fiieers and put them under hisillow j which his wife perceiving, faid to onef her maids, go to bed to my huiband, for heitends to cutoff my hair to-night, let him cutff thy hair, and I will give thee as good a kirtle5 ever thou didfi: fee. The maid did fo, andtigning herfelf afleep, which the man perceiv-g, cut oft' the maid’s hair, and wrapped itI out the fheers, and laid them under the pil-v, and went to deep : the maid arofe, and: wife took the hair and Ikeers, and went to2 hall, and there burnt the hair. The mand a fine horfe that he loved much, and theodwife went info the liable, cut off the horlV/ s1, wrapped the fiieers up in it, and then laid |em under the pillow again. Her hufband fee- j5 her combing her head in the morning, mar- |elled very much thereat. The girl fee mg herlafter in a deep ftudy, faid, What the devil jfils the horfe in the liable r He bleeds prodign ;tufty. The man ran into the liable, and foundtie horfe’s tail was cut oft-; then going to hisled, he found the fheers wrapped up in hiskirfe’s tail. He then went to his wife, faying,| crave thy mercy, for 1 intended to cut off thyiair, but have cut off my own horfe’s tail. Yea,•aid flie, felf-do, felf-have. Many men thinkto THE MERRY TALES OFto do a bad 41m, but it turneth oft-times tof;themfelves.; i:T A L E xnr.A Man of Gotham laid his wife a wager, that iflte could not make him a cuckold. Wo ! faicl(he, but I can. Do not fpare me, faid he, butdo what you can. On a time fhe had hid allthe fpiggots and faufets, a:id going into the but-utery, let a barrel a broach, and cry’d to her:trfpoufe. Pray bring me a foiggot and fatifet, or :eife the aie will ail run out lie fought up and ,down but could not find one. Come here then,faid fhe, and put thy finger in the tap-hoied;Then (lie called a taylpr with whom fLe had;made a bargain. Soon after ihe can: : to herhulband, and brought a fpiggot and faulet,jtfaying. Pull thy finger out ot the tap-hole, .good cuckold. Belhrew your heart for your :trouble, faid he, make no iuch bargain with';.:me again.TALE XIV.A Man of Gotham tdok a young buzzard^ |and invited four or five gentlemens lervants toll;the eating of it 5 but the old wife killed an old 1goofe, and iht at;d tw'o of her golfips ate up]:the buzzard, and the old goofe was laid to the?, iifire tor the gentlemens fervants. So when they t,came, the goofe was let before them. What isi ithis ? faid one of them. 1 he goodman faid, a|«curious buzzard. A buzzard ! faid they, why! tJds an old goole, and theu art a knave to mock ;us. and fo in grear anger departed home. The.;fellow was very forry that he had aiTrontedthbra, and took a bag and put the buzzard V'THE WISE MEN OF GOTHAM, nlathers in it; but his wife defired him beforee went, to fetch a block of wood, and ia theiterim fie pulled out the buzzard’s feathers,[id put in thegoofe’s. Then the man takingle bag, went to the gentleman’s fervants, andid, Pray be not angry with me, you fliall feehad a buzzard, for here be the feathers. Then2 opened the bag. and took out the goofe’s fea-terc. Upon which one of them took a cudgel,id gave him a dozen of ftripes, faying, Why,du knave, could you not be content to mock> at home ? but are you come here to mocks alfo.T ALE XV.\ A Man’s wife of Gotham was brought to-bcdf a male child, and the father invited the gof-fps, which were children of eight or ten yearsf age. The elded child's name was Gilbert,pe fecond’s name was Humphrey, and the god-liother’s name was Chriftibei. Their relationsiljdmonidted them divers times, that they mud111 fay after the Parfon.- And when they were11 come to the church, the Pried laid, be you11 agreed of the name ? Gilbert, Humphrey,nd Chridibel, faid they all The Pried then jud. Wherefore came you hither ? They im- i*hediately faid the fame. The Pried being a-jiazed, could not tell what to fay, but whidledipd faid, Whey, and fo did they. The Pried |!jping angry, faid, Go home fools, go I pme.Ifhen Gilbert, Humphrey and Chridibel did«ihe feme The Pried then provided godfathers |jiind godmothers himfeif.Here a man may fee, that children can doTHE MERRY TALES OFnothing without good inflructions, and thathey are not wife who difregard them.TALE XVI.A Young man of Gotham went a wooing hja fair maid : hi-; mother warned him beforehandifaying, whenever you look at her, caft a fheep%eye at her, and fay, How dofl thou, my fweei.Pigfni? ? The fellow went to a butcher’s, ana.bought feven or eight iheep’s eyes. And wheflthis lufty wooer was at dinner, he would looltipon this fair wench, and caft in her face aIheep’s eye, faying How doft thou do my fweefiPigfnie ? How I do, laid the wench, Swine’Cface, what do you mean by cafting a fheep’s eyfat me ? Oh I fweet Pigfnie, have at thee with an|other. Bot I defy thee, Swine’s face, faid the,wench. What-my fweet old Pigfnie, be content.|.for if you live till next year, you will be a foulTow, Walk knave, walk, faid {he, for if you.live till next year ye will be a fool.T A h E XVII.There was a man of Gotham, who woul|tbe married, and when the day of marriage waacome they went to church. The Prieft faid, Dmyou fay alAf me. The man faid, Do you fay af-t.r me. The Pried faid. Say not after me fuchlwords, but fay what I fhall tell you ; thou doflijplay the fool to mock tiie holy Scripture con-i< erning matrimony. Then the fellow faid, thoudoft play the lool to mock the holy Scripture.;concerning matrimony. The Pried could not tejlwl\at to fay, but anfwered. What fhall 1 do with!this fcoli" And the man Hid, What fhall I do'iwith this fool ? So the Pried took his leave andliTHE WISE MEN OE GOTHAM. 13iu!d not marry them. But he was inftru&edothers how to do, and was afterwards mar-. And thus the breed of the Gothamitesbeen perpetuated, even unto this day.T ALE XVIU.There was a Scotfman who dwelt at Co¬rn, and he took a houfe a little diftance fromndon, and turned it into an inn ; and for hishe would have a boar’s head. Accordingly'ent to a carver, and fakl, can you make mere-head ? Yes, faid the carver. Then laid hes5ke me a bare-head, and thou’fe have 2cd. forr hire. I will do it, faid the carver. So on St.drew’s day, before C hr] ft mas, the which is|ed Yule in Scotland, the Scot came to Lon-a for his boar’s head to fet up at his door. I| to thee, fpeak, faid the Scotfman, haft thou,jide me a bare-head ? Yes, faid the carver, Helint and brought a man’s head of wood thatbare and faid, Sir, here is your bare-head,faid the Scot the meik'e, de’il i is this a:-head ! Yes, faid the carver. I fay, fatd the'tfman, I will have a bare-head, like a headfollows the fow that has giyces. Sir, faid the.cr, I don’t know a fow and gryces What,prefon, know you not a fow that will greet: groan, and cry, a weak, a weak. What, faidcarver, do you me^n a pig ? Yes, faid thetl'man, me have her head made on tiro-and fet on her fcalp, and let her fing whip-e. The carver faid he could not. You when J-faid he gar her as ftie’dTmg whip W’hire„-fkevv.s that all men delight in their fancy.14 TtlE MERRY TALES OF, &c,TALE XIX.ON Adi Wednefday, ths minifter of Gothartiwould have a collection from his parilhioneriand faid unto them, My friends, the time icome that you mult ufe prayer fading amalms, but come ye to fhrift l will tell ye monof my mii)d But as for prayer. I don’t thin]that two men in the parifh can fay their Pate|nofter. As for fading, ye faft ftili, for ve havnot a good meal’s meat in the year. As fdfilms-deeds, what fhould they give that ha\jnothing ? In Lent, you muft refrain from drunlenefs, and abftain from drink No, not ftfaid one fellow, for it is an old proverb, thlfilh fhould fwim. Yes, faid the Pried, it mu rfwim in the water. I craw; you mercy, quotijthe fellow, I thought it fhould have fwam ifine ale, for I have been told fo Soon aftt ethe men of Gotham came to fluift, and beirlfffeven, the pried knew not what penance to givjieHe faid, if I enjoin you to pray, you dann|l;fay your Pater-noder. And it is but folly c;make you fad, bccaufe you never eat a meal im^at. Labour hard and get a dinner on Sirday and I will partake of it, another man 10-enjoined to fare well on Monday, and anothon Tuefday, and one after another, that one tother fhould fare well once in the week, thhe might have part of their meat. And as falms-deeds, the pried faid, ye be but beggsall except one or two, therefore bfedovy yoalms on yourfelve?.A COLLECTION OF JESTS.jjA N Irifhrmn being afked, whether he or hisbrother were olden: r 1 am oldefl faid, but if my brother live three years longer,: (hall be both of one age.An Irifh fervant being ft ruck by his mafter,led out, Devil take me, if I am certain whe-er he has killed me or not; but if I am dead,will afford me great farisfa&ton to hear theill rogue was hanged for killing me.[ A deaf fellow coming to Londbn to fell a tur-• y, at Hyde Park Corner, had occafion to un-a point ; a gentleman parting by, intendedi?put a joke upon him ; countryman, faid he,■lire’s a turd under you ; the man thinking he:ed the price of his turkey, faid, four fhillings,filer. 1 fay there’s a turd under you, faid the, ler. It is as good as ever you eat in your life,d the fellow, either baked or roafted: Youga1, faid he, I could find in my heart to kick- J i foundly. Come chufe, fays the fellow, for>j; ou wont anorher will,f One being at liis wife’s funeral, and the bear-. Agoing pretay quick along, he cried out toi in, Don’t go fo fall, what need we make a(i ’ of a pleajiire.(Two Irilhmen, walking together in the fields,; e at length hemmed in hv a great ditch, whichjen they perceived, quoth one of them, weit go back again, for this ditch is too big forto jump over! Nay, quoth the other, 1 pro-I’ll jump over, light in the middle.i6 A COLLECTION OF JESTS.A number of French gentlemen, dining at sX*. VI i UUUllg clL itavern in Gerniany, the maid, as (he took ou.ithe didles, let a roofing fart; and her miftreffcolding her fevereiy for doing fuch a thing i|hearing of the guells. Pfliaw, madam, fays fltiyou don’t confider that they are all French pefflpie, and don’t underfland German.In Admiral Hawke’s iaft engagement witlthe French, a failor on board one of the fhiphad a leg (hot off, whereupon one of his me*mates took him down to the furgeon, and toJhis leg off the deck and put it under his am®he was no foxier brought down, but anothlof his mefs-mates began (baking his head, ai»telling him he was very forry he'h id loft a leiThat is a damn’d lie, you fon of a h—h, replilhe, for I have got it under my arm.A gentleman one day gave his fervant a kifon the breech, upon which the fellow let a roding f—t, his mailer was horribly offended, btthe fervant faid. Why, Sir, would you knock®the door, and have nobody anfwer you. |An Jrifhman at Chefter. upon enquiring at fjlandlord how he could get to London, and beiftold he might go in the waggon, he repliesNo, honey, that won’t do, I am always fea-ftj)when I ride in a waggon.A Schoolmafter afiting one of his boys, icIharp winter morning, what was Latin for collthe boy hefitated a little—What firrah, faid tcan’t you tell? Yes, yes, cried the boy, I ha.it at my finger-ends.F I N I S.