THETravels & AdventuresOFWILLM LITHGOW,INEUROPE, ASIA, and AFRICA,DURINGNINETEEN YEARS. 'FALKIRK:AXD SOLD By T. JOlf*STON.18^5.THETRAVELS AND ADVENTURESOpJH Hi am Lithgoro.THE sufferings and perigrinations oflids Scotsman, who far cut-walked thelate famous Coryate, “seen,” saysMr. Granger, “to raise him almostto the rank of' a martyr, and a hero.”3 lis book being very scarce, and littleknown, a short abridgment may heacceptable ; in which we shall, in gen¬eral, omit his disci iplions, and insertonly his adventures, ‘A fter making twovoyages to the Orkney and Shetlandislands, and walking overall Germany,Bohemia, Switzerland, and the LovrCountries, our author visited Paris,where he resided ten months.From thence, on March 7th lf>0!),.he set out'on foot fur Itily, and in fortydays passing through Savoy, and overthe Alps arrived at Rome. There pro¬bably being too free and unguarded inspeech and not observing the advicegiven to Milton by Fir Henry Wotton,I pensieristretii, ed itvisg scialto ; aftero. stay of twenty-eight days he couldnet have escaped the “blood-sucking3inquisitors,” raost of whom were hisown countrymen, had it not been for theassistance of Robert Meggat, a Scots-manalsojthen residingiu Burgodi Romawith the old fiarl of Tyrone, who con¬cealed him three days at the top of hislord’s palace, and on the fourth at mid*night when all the streets and gateswere watched for him, conveyed himaway, and leaped the wall with him.He then visited Naples, Virgil’s tomb,be. Having walked four limes fromone end of Italy to the other, viz. fromYallese, tlie first town in Piedmont, toCape Blancho in Calabria, he affirm,it to be 900 Italian miles in length,and in breadth 2i0, from the Adritie: eoa$t to the Riviera of Genoa, by thesea side, Campagna di Roma and theduchy of Spoleto, hereturned to LorettoHere he'met with a countryman namedt Mr.fJs. Arthur, whose company wasmost acceptable to him, One day, asthey were viewing the image of theVirgin, a lusty young woman, busy ather beads, overpowred by the heat ofthe throng fainted away; at which thewoman near her exclaimed, that “ourblessed lady bad appeared to her.'” im¬mediately she was carry’d out. and hud.on the steps that, led from the chapelto the church doer, some hundreds moot*4aaliitingher with “Saint, saint, O ever*blessed saint !” This being Friday, thebanian having travelled all night, toi«.\e the expense offish, had privatelyr.'.tan a bit of her own cold meat, anddrank half a buckale of red wine in at n’crn. At last said our author,“BruUier Arthur, I will go and openthat mother’s bo.v.rn.” He did so, andr osed up her head, a flood or vingarba,*f sour wine, sprung down the alabasterHairs, mixed with lumps of indigestedr-cat; at which the people being amaz-**,i from the saint swore she was devil;and, had noL our travellers carried herin haste from the church tothe tavern,they would doubtless have stoned herto death. Embarking in a frigate atAncona, Arthur and Lithgow' in threedays arrived at Venice, where as soonas they landed at St. Mark’s Place,perceived a great crowd of people, andm the midst of them a great smoke, in-quiringthe cause, they were told, that* grey-triarof the Franciscan order wasburning alive at St. Mark’s Pillar, fordebauching fifteen noble nuns/andallwithin a year. Pressing forward, theycame to the Pillar, just as half his bodyand his right hand fell into the fire.This friar was foity-six years old, andkad been confessor of that nunnery of*5• SanctaXucia five years. Most of the«snuns were Senitors’ daughters.---"--Fifteen (all pregnanO were sent hometotheirfather’s palaces ; the lady prior¬ess andthe rest were banished for ever*;the nunnery was razed to the groud^the revenues were given to the poor,and the church converted toan hospital.Here our travellers separated, Arthurreturned homeward, and Lithgow jjro-ceeded to-Greece and Asia^ but firstvisiting Pad.ua, Verona, and Ferrara.At Padua he staid three months learn¬ing Italian of one of his countrymen.Dr John Wedded)urn, an eminent ma¬thematician, who afterwards settledinMoravia. At his return to Venice, heembarked **) a carmoesalo Zara Nova,in Dalmatia; but meeting with a vio¬lent storm, they were driven for shelterinto the port of Parenzo, in Dtpw.Tlience sailing by the is!. s Priani, theruii.-s of Pola, the isles Sangego, Osero,be. on the 8th. day tiny arrived atZira, where our traveller got a passageinto a Greek carmoesaio for Lesina, thelargest island in Adriatic. He after-wardssailed successively to Ilagusa.andthe island of Corfu. Near tho island ofSt. Man re the vessel was at t acted bya Turkish galley of Biserta, from whicliBH^r a long and doubtful fight they'G'W&cspdl'by favour of a stcfm, aeil took^fielterin Cepholonia(forteea]y Ithaca.)leaving seven of the crew killed, andxdevep wounded } among the latter curtre velier, in his right arm. Over thisisiani; he travelled, and on the seeondday. hired-a little boat to carry him toZant, ^anciently Zacynthus,) twenty-five miles distant, where a Greek sur¬geon cured his wound. He there em¬barked in a frigate for Peterasso, ofPatras,) the capital of the Mcrea, wherequitting the sea, lie joined a caravan■ of Greeks bound for Athens, passingthrough Laconia, and live billy and(now) barren country of Arcadia, en¬camping one night in the Uninhabitedvilliges of Argos and Mycenae; andfueling in short, no remains of ancientGreece, but the name. In seven daythe arrived at Athens, from whence hetook shipping for the isle of Serigo, (ofold Cythefa) where during his stayat Capsalo, the captain of that fortresshaving killed a priest, whom he hadfound one night in a brothel, the gov¬ernor of the island deposed and banish¬ed him. In the same boat Lithgewalso embarked, and sailed to Candia,or Crete. Through this whole islandhe..travelled twice, which no travelleriu Christendom had done before. On7‘setting ont for Canea, being informedof the danger of robbers, lie jjut birmoney ic exchange, and had scarcegot twelve miles, when he was besetby three Greeks and an Italian, whoI beat him cruelly, robbed him of all hisclothes, and striped him nuked, addingmany threats ; till at length, the Italianperceiving he was a stranger, and couldnot speak the Cretan tongue, asked himin his own language, where was hismoney ? He replied, he had only 80bi/zanums, which scarce amounted toeightpence English. Not crediting thesewords, the robbers searched all hi.sclothes and budget, but found nothingcxr-cpt his linen and recommendatoryletters from several princes, particu-larly the Doge of Venice, whose sub-iect they were: this moved the Italianto compassion, and he earnestly intret-ed the ethers to save our traveller’s lifeAt length, they restored to him his pil¬grim’s clothes and letters, but kept hisblue gown and byzantirws, and as apassport gave, him a stamped peice ofclay, to shew to any of their compan¬ions, if he met them, the band consist¬ing of twenty. Travelling that daythirty-seven miles, he reached at nightthe miserable village of Pickehorno,where he could find neither meat, drinb,‘8’lodging, nor ary refreshment. The(. audiots, a barbarous people throng¬ing round him, seeming amazed at hiswanting both company and their lan¬guage, a compassionate female havingprivately made him signs that his deathwas concerted he stole away from themin the night, and lay till morning ina cave by the sea-side hungry andthirsty, and his heart fainting in him.At sun-rising, he quited his lurkingplace, and about noon readied Canea,the second city of Crete, ancientlyCydcn. While he was there, six gal-lies arrived from Venice, in one ofwhich was a voung Frencli gentleman,a protestant, born in Languedoc, whobad been condemned by the senate tothe gallies for life, for being accessaryto the death ofa young noble Venetian,in a quarrel concerning a courtezan.Having leave from his captain to comeon shore with a keeper wearing an ironbolt on his leg. our author commencedan acquaintance with him, and greatlycompassionatinghis misfortune, (^beingat Venice when the accident happened,)contrived his escape at thehazard of hisown life, by means of an old Greekwoman, his laundress, who lent him anold own and a black veil for a disguse,Accordingly, Lithgow.invitedthe keep-9er to a tavern, where, with deepdraughts of Leatic, he intoxicated thisArgus, and left him asleep. Tiien dis¬burdening his friend of his irons, heclothed him in a female habit,{and senthim out of the town, conducted by theGreek woman, and when past the guar.'!and gate, our traveller followed hi rawith his clothes, and, interchangingthem, directed him ovci* the mountainsto a Greek convent, where he mightbe entertained till the Maltese galliesor man-of-war should t« uch there, ontheir way to the Levant-In his way back our author was metby two soldiers of his nation, Smith andHurgrave, who were coming to informhim that the officers of the gallies, andseveral soldiers were searching the cityand the fields for him. Advising withthem how to reach the Julian monastry,St. Salvador, where tin y lodged, theyconducted him in at the eastern (theleastfrequented) gateof the city, wherethreeotherenglishmen (of thegarrison)were that day on guard, and with themhappened to be eight French soldiers,their friends, who also agreed to escorthim. Near his lodgings, four officersAnd five galley soldiers ran to seize himwhen the English and French drawingtheir swords, desperately wounded two10of his officers. Meantime, a reinforce¬ment coming from the gailies, Smith,leaving the rest engaged, ran withLithgow to the monastry. At lengththe officers of' the garrison relievedtheir own soldiers, and drove back theothers to the gallies. Soon after, thegeneral ol1 the gallies came to the mon- Iastry, and examining our traveller con¬cerning the fugitive, he made such adefence that nothing could be provedagainst him. Nevertheless, be choseto remain in sejegiiflrd in the cloisterti!i the gallies were gone. Being dts*‘appointed of a passage to the Archipe¬lago, Lithgow resolved to visit the cityof Candia; and in his way passed by thefamous haven and through the pleasantvalley of Suda, by thecity of Keshimos,the labyrinth of Daedalus, and mountIda; near which, he disproved the as¬sertion of ther j being no venomouscreature in Crete, by killing two ser¬pents and a viper. Being disappoint¬ed at Candia, he was forced to returnta Canea the same way he went, where,soon after, an English renegado, namedWilson, arrived from turns, in his wayto Phodes ; and, after some conversa¬tion with his countrymen, (the English,soldiers, hearing that Lithgow was aScotsman, he suoke as follows. “MyItelder brother, the master of a ship, washilled at Burnt island in Scotland, byone Keere; and though he was behead¬ed, I have long since sworn to be re¬venged on the first Scotsman I shouldsee or meet, and therefore I am deter¬mined to stab this man to-night as hegoes home to his lodgingdesiringtheir assistance, which two of them pro-| inisedbuttheother three refused, mean¬time Smith found him at supper in arulier’s house, where, acquainting himwith this conspiracy, he was escortedto his lodging by Smith and threeItalian soldiers, passing by the ruffianand his confederates, who, seeing histreachery discovered, made his escape.Smith having thus most eminentlyserved him twice, first in freeing himfrom the danger of galley-slavery, andnow in saving his life, Lithgow resolvedto return the obligation, by discharginghis debt to the captain, which was onlyforty-eight shillings Sterling and there¬by procuring him his liberty, after hav¬ing served three' captains fifteen years.This our traveller happily accomplish¬ed, and embarked him for Venice.Lithgow staid in Canea near a month,before he could procure a passage forthe Archipelago and at last left theRiomstry (he says) with regret, as the1 \ >12four friars his hosts, gave lum frequeitand large draughts cf malmsey, thoughoften against his will. Every night,too, they forced him to dance withthem ; but their music was drunken¬ness, and these beastly swine were everynight so drenched, that they had notpower to go to their beds, but wherethey fell, they lay till next morning.Tu short, during the twenty days of hisbeing there, he never saw any of themtruly sober.In this island, he travelled on footabout 4>00 miles, and, after a stay offifly-eight days, he embarked in a fish¬ing-boat for Milo, one of the Cyclades,distant 100 nines.From Milo our traveller proceededto Zephano, another small island, fromwhence Lucullus first transported mar-bh? to Rome ; and to Angusa, wherehe was wind bound sixteen days, andall that time was never in bed, butlodged on the stones in a little chapelthe Greeks intreating him not'to entertheir sanctuary, because he was not oltheir religion j however, as the nightswere long and cold, he was forced everynight to creep into the midst of it to keephimself warm. From thence he wentto Mecano, anciently Delos, the chief®f the fifty-four Cyclades, where the13custom still continues of newr suffer¬ing men to die, or children to be born i»it; but when the men are sick and thewoman big-bellied they are sent toRhena, two miles distant, Zea, Tinofand Palmosc, once Patinos, where St*Joh n w rote his Revilation, v/ere the nextislands which lie visited; and thencesailing to Nicaria, his vessel, in sight ofit was chaced by two Turkish galliotsinto a bay, where, leaving the loadedboat, hs and eight more fled to therocks, from whence they annoyed theTurks with huge stones. The masterand two other old men were taken andmade slaves, and the boat and goodsseized. In his way from Nicaria tolaio, they were diiven by a storm intoa creek between two rocks, where the•hc-e being sheifv, and the anchors* * *coming home a great lake was made,and seven of the crew drowned : Theother eleven just before the boat'sunkby hasty rowing reached a cave withinthe mountain ; Lithgow disembarkedthe last, as the rest had sworn if hepressed to escape before they were allin safety, they would throw him intothe sea. Nothing was saved but hiscoffer made of reeds in which he car¬ried his papers and linen, and held italways in his arms. In this cave, which14Was 30 paces long, they abode threedays without meat and drink, till, onthe fourth, the tempest ceasing somefishing boats relieved them. Seventeenother boats were cast away on this coastand not a man saved. Through thisisland Lithgcw travelled witiv a thank¬ful heart to Sio the capital, where,passing by an old castle, he was toldthat Homer’s sepulchure was still ex¬tant there and being desirous to seeit, he descended by sixteen steps intoa dark cell, and through that to anothersquare room, where he saw an ancienttomb on which were engraven someancient Greek letters, which he couldnot understand. I3y Mitylene, orLesboa he next sailed in a carmoesaloto Negropoint (of old Euboea,^, and intheir way they were chased by twoTurkish galliots into a long creek,where the turks were deterred fromattacting them, by bonfires made hrthe Greeks for six Suceeding nights,our traveller, as a stranger, being ex¬posed every night to stand centinel, inthe midst of frost and snow, on the topof a high promontory, which, howeverinvited his mule to bewail his toilsomelife his solitary wandering, and his lonjjdistance from bis native country.15On the 7‘*-h. day, two Venetain gen¬tlemen, who had been ten years banish¬ed for murder, came down to see themwith two servants, all well armed ; and -"hearing our traveller’s complaints a-gainst the Greeks for detaining his bud¬get, and forcing him to endanger hislife for their good, they soundly drub¬bed the master, and forced him to re¬store Lithgpw’s things ; carrying himwithin five miles of the town wherethey then resided, kindly entertaining.him ten days, and, at his departure,made him a present of forty gold se¬quins ; the first gift he ever receivedin aii'his travels.Ffom thence he proceened loSalon?-ca in macedonia, and then sailed alongthe Thessalian shore, saw the “two-t ,ppedhill” Parnassus, and alittle moreeast, a ruinous village and castle, oncethe city of Thebeg. in three days fromIlalohica he arrived at Tenedos, whenmeeting with two Trench merchantsof Marseilles bound to Coastantineslslie and they resolving to view Trov,hired a jauizary for their conductorand guard, and a Greek for their in-terpretor. Landing there, they saw-many relicts of old walls, and manyruined tombs some of which werepointed cut to them us the tombs of16Hector, Ajax, Achilles, Troiius, <5cc.and also those in Hecuba, Cressida, andother Trojan dames. Credat Judocus!They were shown also the ruins ofKing Priam’s palace, and where oldAnchises dwelt. On a piece of a highwall, at the N. E. corner of Troy, ourauthor found three pieces of rustedmoney ; two of which he afterward*gave to the younger brothers of theduck of Florence, then studying atPratolina ; the third and fairest, witha large picture on one side, he bestowed,at Aix in province, on his countrymanMr. Strachan then mathematician tothe Duke or Guise, who presented ittohis Lord“ Wherethe pride of Phrygia stood,(saysour author; it is a most delectableplane, abounding now in corn-, fruit*and delicate wines, and may be calledthe garden of Natella ; yet not popu¬lous, for there are but only five scat¬tered villages in all the bounds : Thelength of Trey hath been, as may bediscerned by the fundamental walls yetextant, about twenty Italian miles ;lying along the sea-side, bef • een thethree paps of Ida, and the furthestend eastward of the river Simois; whosebreadth all the way hath not out-strip’dT7'the fields above two miles.” This wegive as a specimen of his stile.On discharging their covenant withthe janizary, who was not contentedwith the former condition, the French¬man objected to pay the same thatLithgovdid the Turk belaboured themboth with a cudgel till the blood sprangfrom their heads, and compelled themto double his wages. Such is the ex¬tortion of those rascals, who regardChristians no more than dogs ; and itis. always best for a tvaveller to contentthem at first, or he will be forced withblows, to pay twice as much. At Siltoaand Abydos, so famed for the loves ofHero and Leamier, hut now called the•castles of Gallipoli (at present the Dar-denelles.) they arrived in a small fri¬gate, where, two days after, eightyChristians, slaves, having murderedtheir captain, and the other Turks,and run away with the galley, passedthe streights at mid-night, with littlehurt, though the cannon thundered in¬cessantly for two hours; and at la:;iarrived in the roa-d to Zante. Anothergalley ai>empting the same the yearfollowing : the poor slaves, in passi * ,were so wounded and galled with thegreat shot, and -he gall* ready to sinkthat they were forced -to run on shcre:IS'li'herc, being apprehcmkt!, wcr6miserabiy pwit to dt>ath.Leaving the Frenchman with a Greekbarber, Lithgow embarked in a Turk¬ish frigate for Constantinople, “ a httleworld, (which he describes as yieldingat a distance) such an outward splen¬dour to the amazed beholder, of goodlychurches, stately towers, gallant steep¬les &c. that the world cannot equal it.”At his landing however, he “had ahard welcome;” foron leaving the boatthe master saying Adio Christ icno, fourfrench rengenadoes strndingon the quayand hearing these wmrds fell desperat¬ely upon aim, blaspheming the nameof Jesus,and throwing him down, beathim cruely, so that had not his friend¬ly Turks leaped out of their boat andreleived him, they would doubtless havemurdered him. The other infidels stand¬ing by, said to him. “Behold what aSaviourthouhast, when those that wergChristians, now turned Mahometans,cannot chide nor regard the name ofthy God !” Entering into a Greeklodging, he was much eased" of hisbl mts, by their anointing him withdivers om, and kindly received andrefreshed gratis, because he had suffer¬ed so much for Christ’s sake. Nextday he went ta pay hia duty to Sir'Thcn'.ss Glover, the English amhassj*-Tier,'who courteously cuteffained him*hree months in his house“A more complete gentleman, (hesays,) he never met with, nor one inwhom true worth did more illustratevirtue ’’ His mother was a Polish ladywho coming from Dantzick to Londonwas delivered .of him at sea. After¬wards he w: « brought up at Constan¬tinople, and spoke and wrote the Sela-voruan tongue perfectly ; and thencereturning to London, he was the firstambassador sent there by king James I.after his coming to the crown of Eng¬land. The duke of M oldavia, being de¬prived of his principalities by Achmefvras received and chargeably maintain¬ed by Sir Tliomas, in his house, fortwo years, but his embassy being ex¬pired & Sir Paul Pindar haing expectedi« his pjace this prince stole away fromhim turned Turk, and was circumcisedreceiving only, for his dukedom, a pal¬ace, ancl a ycarely pension of H,1C00gold sequins for life. He owed theambassadett about 1.51000 half of w hichin half an vear, he recovered the otherhalf he was forced to forgo.The winter being ^expired, Lithgowstaled ia an English ship to Smyrna,and thence to Pthodes, where he saw20the remains of the Collossus and toLimisso, in Cyprus, from whence hewent with an interpreter to visit Nio--osia, the capital; and, on his return,meeting four Turks, they would havehis mule to ride upon, which his inter¬preter refused, they pulled him otf itshack, beat him pitifully, and left himalmgst dead. His companion fled andescaped ; and had not some Greeks ac¬cidently come by and relieved him,he must have perished. He sailed fromthence to Tripoli, in Syria, and whilehe waited there foracaravan to Aleppo,being mindful to visit Babvion, heagreed with three Venetian merchant*to go a days journey to see the ceders#>f Libanus. Ascending the mountain,their guide mistaking their way amidstan intricate path of the rocks, two oftheir ass^s fell over a bank, and broketheir necks-,,-and had they not met, by-chance, with •, Christian Armaronite*I they must, have been lost among therocks, heaps of snow, and violent tor¬rents. At the -place where the cedarsgrow, they saw but twenty-four in all;and nine miles eastward, there areseventeen more. He was there shewnthe tomb of Joshua, ail of one stone,seventeen feet long, and was kindlycntei twined by vti Bishop, or Patriarch21»t Eden, and the Amaromtes, or Naz-ai itans, of the other villages.RetnrningtoTripoli, he set out witha caravan of Turks for Aleppo, butbefore his arrival there, the caravanfor Babylon, to his great grief, wasdeparted : but, being told that it staidat Beershack on Euphrates, on ac¬count of some Arabs who way-laidthem in the desarts, he hired a janiz¬ary and th;ce soldiers to overtake themBut though they had stayed, they weregone three days before he get there.- Beershacke is by some supposed to bePadenarium. To Aleppo, therefore, hewas forced to return. While he wasthere, the Bashaw, having, the yearbefore rebelled against the grand Sig¬ner, lie sent him a chiaux and' janiz-fies in an embass, proffering, that ifke would acknowledge his rebellion,and for that treason send Achmet hisbead, his eldest son should inherit hispossessions and Bashawship; other¬wise the Sultan would come in personand utterly oraze him and all his fromthe face of the earth. rI he messengerswet the Bashaw on horseback, accom¬panied by his two sons and 500 horse¬men. Hearing this he dismounted con¬sulting with his sons and friends, he &they concluded, that it wasbest for him22being an old man to die to save hisrace from destruction and preserve hisson in his authority and inheritance.This done, he went to prayer; andtaking leave of them all and' sittingdown on his knees, the chauix struckoff his head, and put it into a box tocarry to Constantinople. The corpsewas honourably buried at Aleppo, ofwinch Lithgovv was an eye-witness.And immediately the chiauix by pro¬clamation, fully invested the son in hisfather’s lands, offices &c.Being disappointed going with thecaravan to Babylon in the autumn, aslias been already related, our travellerreturned to Aleppo, where he staid tillthe spring, when he joined a caravanof Armenians and Turks, well guard¬ed, bound to Jerusalem, hiriiig a mulefrom a Turk to carry his victuals.Their number was about (KX) Armen¬ians, Christian pilgrims, men and wo¬men, GUO Turks trafficing for theirown business. ]Op soldiers, three chia-use*, and six janizaries. The confu¬sion of this multitude he describes asmost grevious, on account of the ex¬treme heat and scarcity of water, andnarrow Stony passages in which theyoften fell one over another in greatheaps, and the Christians' were often23■vrell beaten by the conducting Turks.The owner of his mule was for threedays very favorable to him, in o^derto have a share (he found) of his tobac¬co, of which he then freely gave him apound, which he always carried withhim, tQ procure the good-will of theTurks. At his walking, which he oftendid at dismounting, to streach his legsthat were stiffned by a stumbling beastthey laughed and mocked him, it beingtheir custom, at alighting to sit downimmediately, and fold their feet underthem On the ninth day they arrivedat Damascus, and were lodged threedays there in a greatat the grandsignior’s expencea privilege allowedto all strangers who come with a car¬avan.On Palm Sunday, in the morning,Iditf, tiie caravan entering Jerusalem,and at the gate, they were all searchedlor arms and admonition. The Ar¬menians were obliged to deliver uptheir weapons, and Lithgow’s namewas written in the clerks book, ghathis t ribute for the gates, and for seeingthe sepulcher, might, before his depart¬ure, be paid together. The gates wereof iron inwardly, and above each gatewas planted brazen cannon.Tal.in i his Iea,ve of In’s companions,who lodged with their own Patriarch,our author was met and received inthe streets by the guardian, and twelvefriagrs, each carrying a lighted wax can¬dle, and one for him also, and singingTt Deinn all the way to their Mon¬astery, they* greatlyr rejoiced that aChristian had come from such a farcountry as Scotland to visit Jerusalem.But, when they knew afterwards, thatr he was Popish Catholic, they sorelyrepented of their labour. He foundthere ten Franks, just come fro *. Ve¬nice, six of them Germans, and alsogood Protestants, who were wonder¬fully pleased to hear him flatly tellthe guardian, that he vTas no RomanCatholic,.nor'never thought to be so.After staying some days at Jerusalem,and seeing every thing worthy of hisnotice, he made the best of his wayto Joppa, where, after seeing the re¬mains of the house in which Peter fellinto a trance, and saw heaven opened,he embarked in a small vessel for Alex¬andria He arrived there in safety, and«©on sailed for his native land.FINIS.