LIFE AND TRANSACTIONSOFMrs Jane Shore,Concubine to King Edward IV.containing>n Account of her Parentage, Wit. and Beauty herMarriage with Mr Shore ; the King's Visits toher ; her going to Court, and leaving her Husband ;her great Distress and Misery alter the King’s Death,&c.EDINBURGHPrirttd far the Booksellers in Town s*nd Gauntry,THELIFE AND TRANSACTIONSOFs Jane Shore.daughterI\Irs Jane Shore wasMr Thomas Wainstead, a citizengood repute, who lived in Cheapsiby trade a mercer. She being tonly child of her parents, was hrougup with all the care cimaginable, not wantii _tion that was proper for her ; and 1natural temper, which w^as very aibeing joined to her education, and ti:|degree of pride which, as it is natursome make necessary for the femsex, helped to set her off to the best:vantage. Fine feathers always ma!fine birds ; and if the birds are trwithout them, doubtless they mathem doubly so.*3I This lovely woman was the delightof her father, who clothed her richly,idorning her with jewels ; and, his trade■ying among the court-ladies, he oftenparried her with him to shew her theiastimes which were made frequentlyhere, to divert the queen, &c. which^ave her an. early longing after a great¬er gentility than she had ever yet attain¬ed to, or her city breeding was fit tooroduce.j. When she grew to the age of fif-een, her competent stock of beauty,nd good carriage caused many to falln love with her, and some great lordsixed their eyes upon her, to get herior a mistress, which her father per-eiving, sent her to his sister at North-iiinpton, where she remained about a. ear, till he, supposing the inquiry afterper wasover, imagined she might returnHthout any hazard of being any fur-jiher tempted to lewdness. Yet sherras no sooner returned, than a plot7as laid one night to have her carriedaway by Lord Hastings, wbo, after thdeath of King Edward, took her fohis concubine, as will appear in thclose of this history. But the maiche had bribed with gold to get her abroad, repenting of such treachery ther master, gave timely notice, and scprevented it.Her father perceiving that, unles;he took some speedy course, her greastock of beauty would be her ruin, resolved to marry her; so that havinsurrendered her virginity, and beinin the arms of an husband, those tbasought to crop her virgin rose woulnot regard her, but give over their pur|suit.And among those that courted, anc y!earnestly sought her in way of marriage, was one Matthew Shore, a rielgoldsmith in Lombard street, whonher father pitched upon as a fit husbandand acquainted his fair daughter wit!his intention to marry her to him ; binshe appeared very averse to it, sometimes alleging disproportion of yearsif 0;IIIctie being above thirty, at other times,-bis being disfigured with the smallpox;and many other exceptions she made.However, her father’s positive com-tands, and the rich presents her loverade her, won her consent, or seem-ngly she yielded to the match, and soi lthey were married in great pomp;many of the court, as well as the city,jjbeing invited to the wedding, which/was kept with great feasting manydays.The wedding being over, and theibridegroom having enjoyed his charm-ibng bride, grew exceedingly fond ofher, even to dotage, which sickened1,2nd palled her love toward him, and he^perceiving it, strove to wind himselfithe more into her affections ; and tofithis end he clothed her very richly,hand adorned her wbth jewels, denying>'her nothing she desired, or that hejkhought would tend to her satisfactionnor delight.It was not long before^Lord Hastingsh; heard the unwelcome tidings, that his6fairest Jane was married ; which, how¬ever did not make him give over hispurpose of enjoying her fair body ; sothat he often resorted to see her, trea¬ting her at home when her husbandwas abroad ; often inviting them bothcourt; and took his opportunities topour out many amorous discourses, en-*deavouring, by all means, to make herdefile the marriage-bed. And onetime, intending to try his utmost ef¬forts, he threw her on a bed when they]were alone; but she got from him, andran to her husband, telling him plain¬ly how rude Lord Hastings had been,which, angering Shore, be modestly re¬buked him, and forbade him his house,which made him go away in great heat,but resolving to be revenged.This Lord, being Chamberlain toKing Edward IV. having frequently hisear, and finding he was much inclinedto fine women, though be was marriedto Lady Elizabeth Grey, took an op¬portunity to tell him of Jane Shore’s \beauty, extolling her wit above her fea- |ires, which made the King hearkenthis new adventure, and he resolved) go to Shore’s shop in disguise to see#r. ■ -The King, whose thoughts still rann his intended Mistress, delayed rvot)ng to pay her a visit; and in orderd it, attired himself like a merchant,:nd withdrew privately from court, be-jpg only attended by his page. Onioming into Shore’s shop, then theIfchest in all Lombard-street, he foundphe good man employed in his business ;; ind, waiting till he was a little at lei-jiure, he desired to see some plate,!/hich being shewn him, he, under airetence of carrying it beyond sea,|oon agreed for a considerable quanti¬fy: But yet no wife appeared, whichmade him delay the time with discourseSf what was then transactingin Englandnd places abroad, where he said he hadtravelled.5jl -This delighted Shore mightily, sofljhat he ordered his man to fetch up aSiottle of wine, and they drank merrily,8the good man beginning with a healtlto the King, which the King pledgeehim in. So when some other healthshad passed, the king asked, if there wasnot a mistress to so fair a house ? other-iwise, he could help him to a wife, rich. !young, and beautiful.For this offerbut told him, heto such a one ashe lo\’ed entirely.Shore thanked him,was already marriehe described, whorrThis discourse madthe King more desirous to see her erhe departed, and asked if he could notjfhave a sight of her. Shore, little think¬ing what was intended for his ruin, anproud of his wife’s beauty, soon yieldeto his request, and ordered her to belcalled down, who came attired in a sky-gold, embroidered with pearls and spang¬les, her head attired with curious laceunder which her hair flowed wantonly,,v ;and her blushes made her appear morebeautiful.The K:ng no sooner saw her, but:he stepped forth and saluted her coralStfrtcoloured morning gown, flowered with]Vlift9lips, impressing on them many balmykisses. Then she, by her husband’s de-nsire, sat down, and the king drank toher; she pledged him, and passed it tojpher husband. Then much discourse en¬sued, in which she appeared so witty,i[that the King resolved to have her ati any rate, and so presented her with< some curious things. He paid for his, plate, which the good man would havesent home, but ho refused it, orderinghis page to carry it ; and with many; kisses, he took leave of the charmingiijfair one for that time.The king had no sooner departed,hut Jane asked her husband who thatgentleman was that had been so Irber-jil to her ? he told her, he said he wasi merchant, but he knew him not. Ah !ysaid she, I rather take him for someLuord in disguise; therefore, dear hus-jband, if he,should come again, tell him:r:hat I am sick, or any thing you canjfeign to disappoint him.Mr Shore was greatly pleased aticr conduct, and more discourse had»/10passed, but people coming into the shoabout business, she retired.The King soon arrived at court, wherhe had been missed by his nobles, soonchanged his apparel, and came amongsthem with a very cheerful countenanced]and though others were ignorant, Hast-1ings well perceived where he had been,|and the satisfaction he had receivedand no sooner were they in private^but the King said. Well, Hastings, thouhast very goqd judgment in fine wormen ; I have seen Shore’s wife, andshe excels the praises you gave her; Ilike her well, and must enjoy her, buthow must I bring it about ? to courther in her husband’s presence, as a pri¬vate person, I shall be served as youwas; and to do it as a King, will looktoo low for me 1 will not force herfrom his arms, for that would cause amurmuring among my subjects, whowould fear the like by their wives and!daughters ; but I must have her, and!with her own consent.Hastings smiling, immediately said11/take no care, for this shall be easyto your Majesty ; there is one MrsBia gue, your lace-woman, has a housei'near Shore’s, and is very intimate withhis wife. This woman is very fond ofmoney, to such a degree, that moneywould" make her* do any thing. Herwill I engage to do this matter, and •itrust me she will bring it to pass toyour satisfaction. The King liked thisdevice, and it was agreed that he shouldisee her at this Mrs Blague’s, and havefreedom to court her, but she shouldinot know that he was king, till hethought proper to have it discovered.Lord Hastings was not idle in pro¬moting his master’s happiness, but withgifts and large promises soon made theface-woman pliable, so that many meet- *ings were made at her house, the Kingicoming' in disguise as her friend ; and,I though Mrs Blague often left them a-done, and the King courted her withjail his rhetoric, yet she appeared aversei to his love, and often blamed him sharp-|dy for persuading her to defde her hus-12band’s bed; and then she would chideMrs Blague for suffering such a rudeman to come to her house, telling heithe design he had on her chastity; sheseemed very surprised at it, but entreated her to be at ease, for she wouldnot suffer him to come there agairai'v moreThis pacified her, but the plot wasstill deeper laid for her ruin, and atChristmas time she got leave of MeShore for his wife to accompany her tcthe Court, to see the ball there, tcwhich he consented with some unwiLlingness. And soon after she was intro¬duced, a man of very comely port en¬tered. with a mask on ; and Mrs Shoreheard the ladies whisper, That's ike.; who looking round through hismask, fixed his eyes upon her, and immediately stepping to her seat, tookher out to dance along with him. Atthis she blushed, but not to be unman¬nerly, she complied; and the dancebeing ended, lie took her to a singlelight, and pulling off his mask to saluteSirs13her, she perceived it was the same manwhom she had seen at her own shop,and at Mrs Blague’s house; and put-uing a letter into her hand, he retired.I: She then coming to Mrs Blague, de¬sired to go home ; to this she consent¬ed, and then read the letter, which was: to this purpose ;“ My Lovely Jane,* “ Your beauty has enthralled my heart.S It is a King sues ; you will be kind toi Am, and, by a few lines, tell him so to hiscomjort.”When she read this letter, she lel’tyMrs Blague abruptly, judging she| had a hand in the matter.All this night the fair Jane wasr, restless: her husband inquired thecause, but could not learn it. As)i: soon as she got up, she went to MrsH Blague, to consult what she must do inll this strait, well knowing the King's| humour.;ii14Mrs Blague, seeing her thus pen¬sive, said, •• Come, my dear, you mustnot be coy, nor deny the King’s request. You will glitter so near tthrone, and enjoy a gallant bed-fellow.I find he is resolved to have you for aimistress, and therefore it is best foryou willingly to submit to him.”At this -discourse shg, trembled, yet:considering, from the many attempts:eauty had caused, that it wasaide to be enjoyed by one, in afa. • hour, she consented ; and insteadof ting an answer to the King’s let¬ter, u was agreed that very night sheshould take her apparel, and put her¬self into the hands of the King. Thisbeing concluded, Mrs Blague sent theKing notice, who sent a chariot forthem ; and in the meantime her clotheswere conveved away to Mrs Blague’s,riowever, she supped with her hus¬band, when, on a sudden, somebodycame on a feigned errand, and said, hermother was taken ill, and desired toi . 15speak with her. He would have gonewith her, but she put it off; and giv-j|ng him the last kiss he ever was to re¬ceive from her, she left him, and corn-ling where the chariot stood ready, sheand Mrs Blague got into it, and wereconveyed to the King’s secret apart¬ment, where they found him in his clo¬set. He welcomed them ; but it beinglate, Mrs Blague departed, and theywent to bed.Mr Shore, sitting up late, and his' wife - not returning, - was very muchtroubled, and went to his mother-in-law’s, but they had not seen her, norwas her mother ill, so that her absencetroubled the whole family. The nextday was spent in seeking for her a-imongst her relations and friends, but'! they found her not. Mrs Blague protest¬ed she had not seen her, and droppedj!: some dissembling tears, so that her hus-j'band was almost distracted, and at lastI concluded* that she was taken away by. some courtier ; and, in three days af¬ter, a lady informed them that she was16:with the King. This added more tctheir grief; they knew not what courseto take ; and they knew if they wentto cross the King it would be theiruin.They made inquiry, indeed, if it washer voluntary act, and finding it wasand she quite unwilling to leav^e henew lover, they lost all hope of recov¬ering her, so that Mr Shore growinmelancholy, sold off all he had, anwent abroad ; but having spent his for¬tune, he returned in a poor condition^ iand practised clipping and filing goldcoin to maintain himself; for which hesuffered death in the latter end ofKing Henry VIII.’s reign.Jane Shore having rendered up herchastity to the King, pleased with theglittering of a court, and endeared bya monarch’s love, was admired by thevulgar, towards whom she behaved ina most courteous manner.Her power was so great with theKing, that when his courtiers durst notintercede for the poor and miserable*k17that lay under his displeasure, she, withher wit, would so abate his anger, thatishe saved the lives of very many, bothpoor and rich. Avid though she couldan a manner do all with him, yet it wasnever known she used her influence tothe prejudice of any. And both in^London, and the journeys she madein the country, she would cause poorpeople to be sought for, and relievedItheir necessities, inducing and persuad¬ing others, who expected any goodoffices from the King Ivy her means, todo the same, never selling her favours ;land by her ready wit, she so baffled theucourt ladies, who envied her aspiring,jlthat they found themselves unable toirepartee. And though the King hadanother mistress before her, namelyiLady Betsy, yet he preferred our)heroine much above her, and would; oft.en merrily say I have two mistresses,lof quite different tempers, one the mostreligious, and the other the merriestin England : and indeed she was hadin great favour all the reign of the"rfmM18jmmKing, having crowds of petitionerswaiting at her chamber door, or at thechariot side, when she was to ride abroad, whose suits, to the utmost ofher power, she preferred. As for MrsBlague, least deserved of her, she pro¬cured of the King a stately house andmanor, worth 280/. a year. The Ro¬mish priests envied her much, becauseshe sheltered many from their rage andfury, after they had burned John Hussfor an heretic.As-no worldly pomp nor greatness isof long continuance, so now her glorywas ended, and her days of inexpressiblemisery-began ; for the King‘dying atWestminster, in the fortieth year of hisreign, no sooner was he buried in thechapel of his own founding, at Windsor,but Crook-backed Richard, his brother,who murdered Henry VI. and PrinceHenry his son, aspiring to the throne,though Edward had left two sons be¬hind him, viz. Edward and Richard,and several daughters, all lawful be¬gotten with the Queen, he quarrelled/ith Lord Hastings, (who after theeath of the King had taken Jane Shoreor his concubine, as now free) because\.e would not assist him in his wickediToject, of making away with his twonephews, whom he afterwards causedo be murdered in the Tower, allegingi hat the Queen and Shore's wife hadfewitched him, shewing his witherednrm, which all knew had been so fromiis cradle; and that Hastings, thinking() excuse them, said, “ If they had done), they ought to be punished.” Kich-rd furiously replied, “ Thou traitor,(iliost thou serve me with Ifs ? I say, it> a truth very well known to thee, thatihey have done so, and that I will make: ood on thy body ; wherefore I arrestthee, Lord Hastings, for high treason.”iand, soon after, he caused his head to>e cut off in the Tower.I Jane Shore had no sooner notice ofDie death of Lord Hastings, her para-iiiour, but she perceived a storm wasi Idling on her own head, therefore sheniiotight it necessary to provide in time,20and so she carried her jewels to her oldconfident, Mrs Blague, entreating heto conceal them for her ; but she, likea faithless woman, when Jane camand asked for them, not only deniethem, but when, in the greatest need,she came to crave alms of her, she thrusther out of doors, threatning to have hewhipped for her impudence.Richardj by means aforesaid, bavingot to the crown, and to make himselseem fair by others’ sins, though he wa:|a monster by nature, publicly declar-iing his mother to be a whore, bis brother and his children to be bastards; cansed his Queen to be poisoned, and woulJhave wedded his niece. He ordereclour Jane Shore to be apprehendedstripped of all she had, and do penanceby several times walking in a whit<sheet, and then walk bare-footed am ‘bare-headed in her shift before the pro: Itcession, with a cross and wax taper ii(her hand, through Cheapside, whidshe did, looking so lovely in her blushes, that many one pitied her^ heals21i tripped all her friends and relations of-Ihatever they had, pretending theyjiad got it all by her means from theCrown in King Edward’s reign ; which,Hth the disgrace their only daughterpas fallen into, caused her parents’; leath.Richard, not content with this, put)ut a severe proclamation to this effect:i Fhat, on the pain of death and con-iscation of goods, no one should har¬bour her in their houses, nor relieveper with food or raiment. So that shevent wandering up and down to find herfood upon the bushes, and on thedung-ihills, where some friends she had raisedsvould throw bones with more meatl ithan ordinary, and crusts of stale bread,in the places where she generally haunt-fed. And a baker, who had been con¬demned to die for a riot in King Ed-i ward’s reign, and saved by her means&^ as he saw her pass along, in gratitudeofor her kindness, would trundle a penny)loaf after her, which she thankfully re¬ceived, and blessed him with tears in22her eyes; but some malicious neigl [;cihour informing against him, he was t£ ;ken up and hanged for disobeying KinRichard's proclamation, which so terrtied others, that they durst not relievher with any thing ; so that, in miserable rags, almqst naked, she went aboua most shocking spectacle, wringinher hands, and bemoaning her unhappfate.Thus she continued till the battleRosworth-field, whdre Richard was slaiby Henry Earl of Richmond, who sueceeded him by the name of Henry thc|VII. ; in which reign she hoped fobetter days; but fortune raised hejjl?another adversary, for he married Eliza¬beth, eldest daughter of Edward IV.and King Edward's Queen, who mort¬ally hated her, then bearing a greatsway, another proclamation .was issued]to the same effect; and so she wander-ied up and down, in as poor and miser¬able a condition as before, till growing^old and utterly friendless, she finishedher lifeinaditch, which was from thence23jailed Shore’s Ditch, adjoining Bishops-ifate-street.j Thus you may see the rise and fallIf this once stately, and then unhappy'roman, with whose dying lamentationshall conclude.THEDYING LAMENTATION>: opMRS JANE SHORE.Good People,Though by the rigour of the law youare forbidden to give me any relief, yetyou may pity my unhappy state, forI the Scripture saith, That to the miser-I able pity should he shewn. I am nowij putting a period to a miserable life ; alife that I have been long weary of.Nor would I desire to live in the splen¬dour, pomp, and glory of Edward’scourt. No, I am happier now on thedung-hill than ever I was in his arms.For, oh ! it was an adulterous bed indeed. Oh wretch ! that King Edwardthat ever I was betrayed by him ! Whafloods of sorrow have my sins occasion-!ed ? Oh ! learn from me, good people,to beware of vain delights ; though theypromise fair, they leave bitter stingsbehind them. Alas ! y<and so it is, for I have ensand deaths in one; but now, my dy¬ing moments are come, I rejoice. Sin¬cere repentance has secured my happi¬ness above. But O, where repentanceis not given, what seas of torment rackthe soul! O happy dung-hill, how doI embrace thee ! From thee my pardon¬ed soul shall soar to heaven, thoughhere I leave this filthy carcass.O that the name of Shore may be anantidote, to stop the poisonous and loulcontagion of raging lust for ever.punishment is grievousFIN l s.