e a bSTRANGE and WOMPERf UL|iPR E D I C.T 10 NS'I Mr. CHIUSTOPHER. LOVEMinifter of the GdTpjfel at luwvence-Jury London, who was beheaxiedk on Tower Hill, oil the account ofhis Religion.Kikewile giving y<fi an-Aecotiht-ofgreat Wars in America in 17Bo,r witli the deftruATon of Popery in| the year 1790: Jvnd in the year*1795. Religion (hall flourilh over; all our Ring’s dominions.r' ^ '•To which |s adtkd, 'Two Letters f|om his^Wife tohim a little before hre. Death,with his AnlWer to her again.GLASGOW:/Printed and Sold by J. 8c J. ROBERTSONMDCGLXXVII.'The Strange and Wonderful Predictions of Mr.Christopher Love.A Few nights after he was ferttenc’d to be beheaded on-L \ Tower-Hill, which was on the 22d day of Auguit, inthe year 1651, which was ten days before his appointedtime, by the lentence he received at the bar; being one nightvilited-by two intimate acquaintances, or bofom friends, ashe himftlf call’d them; i n their pH v ate conference they beganto complain to him of the cruelty of the times, and the ma¬lice and ufage of the time-ferving brethren, to which Mr.Love aniwered, And think you this an evil time ? No, no,<this is the very time wfrtn grace and true godlinefs can bedilfinguilhed from hypocrify ; many have followed Chriffhitherto for the loaves, and are now turned back becaufe ofthe roughnei’s of the way* and the fore trial and tribulationmet with by others that are gone before them ? There aremany in London at this very day, who think to go to hea¬ven m their gilded coaches, and have denied Chrift’s caufebefore man, (againff whom I am now witnefs) and Chriff inhis never-failing word has promiled to deny all fuch beforehis Father and the holy artgels, this is the time to difeernbetween him that ferveth God, and him that ferveth himnot; they formerly were my familiar acquaintances in fel-lowfhip and fweet converic, I fent this day to have a fewwords of them here in the prifon, but they w ould not come,for their countenance is fallen, their coniciences wounded,they cannot look me in the face, becaufe I knew of theirrefolution, and w as witnefs of their perjuration. But, ah !how will they look the blejjed Jefus in the face, in themorning of the refurredion ? what anfwer or excufe willthey have for what they have done ? O foolifh people ! w'hothink to efcape the crofs, and come to the crown ; but I tellvou nay, you muff all fuffer perfecution, who follow theLamb ; we mull be hated of all nations for Chrift’s fake, wemuff come thro’ great tribulation, thro’ the fiery furnace ofaffliction, before we can enter the land of joy and felicity ;know you not that the fouls of thole that were flain for theteffimony of Jefus, are placed under the altar ? Happy, hap¬py are thefe men at this day, and ever fflall be happy, whofuffer for Chrift’s fake in a right and charitable way, thro’love to his caufe, and honefty of heart ? not thro’ pride andhypocrify, without the root of the matter ; to have it faid,they died martyrs; thefe are they who will mifs their mark,and thole who denied the call, and turned back fhali neverhave the honour to find it. I am now' pointed out by manyto be in a delfitute and forlorn condition; but I would notexchangeThe Wonderful Predictions, See. 3exchange my ettate, no hot for all the kingdoms of theworld ; no, not for all the glory that’s on the earth : I findmy Redeemer’s love ftronger in my bonds than ever I didin the days of my liberty, therefore I hold living here inthis world as death itfelf. I am as full of love and joy ofthe holy Spirit, as ever a bottle was filled with new wine Iam ready to cry out, ‘ The Spirit of the Lord God is uponme but I will not take it upon me to prophefy neverthe-lefs, the Spirit of the Lord caufeth me to utter; this ufutpedauthority, now in the hands of Cromwell, fhall fhortly beat an end, England ihall be blefTed with meek kings, andmild governments, powerful preachers, and dull hearers ;good fermons to them will be as mufic to a (leepy man, theyfhall hear but not underltand, nor lay the word to heart, topraffiie it in their lives, to walk by it. O England, thoufhall wax old in wickednefs, thy fins abound like Sodom, thvvoluptuoufnefs fhall erv aloud for vengeance; the Lord ihallthreaten and chaffife thee, yet in mercy and love will helook upon thofe that fear him, and call upon his name ; hewill fpare and fave them alive in the days of his anger, whenthe wicked fhall be fitted from amongft you, as the chaff isfifted from amongff the wheat: For out of thee, O England,ihall a bright flar arife, whofe fight and voice fhall make theheathen to quake and knock under, with fubmiflion to thegofpel of Jefus ; he fhajl be as a fon of thunder in the earsof the wicked ; as a lanthorn to the Jews, to lead them tothe knowledge of Jefus Chrift, the only Son of God, andtrue Meffiah, whom they fo long miftrufted ; for the ihortwork fpoken of by the apoftle, which the Lord is to makeupon the earth, in the latter age of the world, cannot befar off. Obferve, my dear friends, while you live, my cal¬culation of the dates in the book of the Revelation, andDaniel, which the Spirit of the Lord led me into, for theLord will reveal it to fome of his own, ere that time come;for the nearer the time is, the feals Ihall be taken away, andmore and more Ihall be revealed to God’s people ; for theLord doth nothing without he-.reveal it, by his Spirit to hisfervants the prophets : he deftroyed not the old world,without the knowledge of Noah, he did not overthrow So¬dom and Gommorah without the knowledge of Abraham, Ido not mean now, that any new prophet fhall arife, but theLord by his Spirit, fhall caufe knowledge to abound amongfthis people, whereby the old prophecies fhall he clearly andperfmly underftood. And i die in that thought, and reallybelieve that my calculation on the Revelation by St. John,and the prophecy which St. Jerome copied off, and tranflat-ed out of the Hebrew language, as it is written on Seth’spillar in Damafcus, which pillar is faid to have ftood finceA 2 before4 The Wonderful Prcdi&itns ofbefore the flood, and was built by Seth Adam’s ion, andwritten by Enoch the prophet; as likewife the holy pre¬cepts, whereby the patriarchs walked before the law wasgiven to Mofes, which wras alfo engraven on the faid pillar,whereof many Jews have copies in their own language,written on parchment, and engraven on brafs and copper,but the alteration of the date makes them to ftagger at it,not knowing that the dates were to be altered by the birthof Chnft. l-'irft, this prophecy is intitled, ‘ A Ihort workof the Lord’s in the latter age of the world.* Great earth¬quakes and commotions by fea and land fhall come in theyear of God 1729, great wars in Germany and Americalybo; the dcftrudion of Popery, or Babylon’s fall, in theyear 1790; God will be knowm by many in the year ty^y;this will produce a great man. The fiars will wander, andthe moon turn as blood in tSoo ; Africa, Alia, and Ameri¬ca will tremble in 1785; a great earthquake over the wholeworld in 1781, God will be univerfally known by ail. Thengeneral reformation and peace for ever, when the peoplemall learn war no more, happy is the man that liveth tofee this day.Tbe firft Letter of Mrs. Lovs to her Hufband.Sweet Heart.BEfore I write further, I bcfeech you to think not that itis your wife that now writeth to you : I hope thou haftfreely given up thy wife and children to the Lord God, thatfaid, Jer. xlii. it. ‘ Leave thy fatherlefs children, 1 will‘ prtierve them alive, and let thy widows truft in me.’ Othat the Lord would keep thee from haying one troubledthought about thy relations. I defire to give thee freely upinto the Father’s hands, and not only look upon it as acrown of glory for thee to die for Chrift, but as an honourto me, that I fhould have a hufband to leave for Chrift. Idare not fpeak to thee, nor have a thought within myfelfof my unfpeakable lofs, but wholly keep my eye fixed up¬on thy unfpeakable and inconceivable gain. Thou leaveftbut a finhil mortal wife, 'to be everlalhngly married to theKing of glory; thou leaveft but children, and brethren,and lifters, to go to the Lord Jefus tby eldeft brother;thou leaveft friends to go to the enjoyment of holy angels,and to the fpirits of juft men made perfeft ; thou dolt butleave earth for heaven; and if natural affeitions begin torife. I hope that ipirit of grace that is within thee willquell them, and knowing that all things here below are butdungMr. CH niSTOP HER LOVE. 5dung and drofs in comparifon of thefe things above: Iknow thou keepeli thy eye» fixed upon the hope of glory,which makes thee to trample upon the lofs of earth.My dear, I know that God hath not only prepared gloryfor thee, and thee fer it, but I am perfuaded he will fweet-en the way for thee to come to the enjoyment of it: andwhen thou art putting on thy clothes that morning, thinkthou art putting on thy weckhng-clothes, to go tone mar¬ried to thy Redeemer; when the meffenger of death com-eth to thee, let him not be dreadful, but look upon him asthe mell'enger that bringeth thee good tidings of eternallife : when thou goelt up to the fcaffold, think what thoutoldefl me, it was but thy chariot to draw thee to thy Fa¬ther’s houfe, and when thou layeft down thy dear headto receive thy Father’s fffoke, remember what thou faiddto me: That though thy head were fevered from thy body,yet thy fouj lhall loon be united to Jefus Chrilt, thy head,in heaven. And though it may feem bitter, that by the handsof men we are parted a little fooner than otherwile wewould have been, yet let us conlider, ’tis the decree andwill of the Father, and befides, we could not have livedmuch longer together, and it will not be long ere we ihallenjoy ore another in heaven. Oh ! let us comfort one ano¬ther with thefe layings. O be comforted, it is but a littleftroke, ere long thou lhalt be ‘ where the weary are at rdf,‘ and where the wicked lhall ceafe from troubling thee.’Oh ! remember that though thou eat thy dinner with bitterherbs, yet thou lhalt have a joyful fupper with Jeftis Chrilfat night. And, my dear, by what 1 write to thee I do notundertake to be a teacher of thee ; for this comfort I havereceived of the Lord by thee. 1 hear a warrant is come tothe lieutenant, 1 am ready to think it may be concerningthee, to fend thee to thy journey’s end to-morrow, and thatbecaufe they may poffibly be hindered if they Itay till theday appointed ; but 1 am perfuaded, thou art fo far frombeing afraid of it, that thou dolt long tor the day, which(next under God) to hear of my wilhngnefs to die, will bethe greatelf comfort in the world. 1 can write no more, butcommit thee to the hands of that God, with whom thouand I ere long lhall be. Farewel, Farewel.July n, i6ji. MARY LOVE.P. S. One comfort I would have thee carry to thy grave,if ever God did good to my foul, thou watt the chief inltru-ment of it, for I never looked after God till I faw thy face.A lecond6The Wonderful Pteditthns ofA fccond Letter of Mrs. Love to her Hufband.My Heavenly Dear,ICall thee fo, becauie God hath put heaven into thee, be¬fore he hath taken thee to heaven; thou now bebolddtGod, and Chrift, and glory, as in a glafs ; but to-morrowheaven’s gates ftiali be opened, and thou flialt be in the fullenjoyment of that glory, which eye hath not feen, nor theear heard, nor the heart of man can conceive. God hathnow fwallowed up thy thoughts with the'joys of heaven,bat ere long thou (halt be fully fwallowed up in the enjoy¬ment of heaven. 0 marvel not there (hould be fuch a quiet-nefs and calmnefs in thy fpirit, whillt thou art falling intothis tempelluous dorm, becaufe thou perceived, by the eyeof faith, a haven of red, where thou (halt be with Chrid theglory of heaven. O lift up thy head with joy, when thouJayed it upon the block, in the thoughts of this, that thouart laying thy head to red in thy Saviour’s bofom; which,when thou ihalt awake, dull be crowned, not with an earthyly crpwn that fadeth away, but with an heavenly crown ofglory. O be not difeouraged, when thou (halt lee a guardof foldiers triumphing with their trumpets about thee ; butlift up thy head, and thou Ihalt behold God with a guardof angels, his holy angels, triumphing for the receiving theeinto glory. O ! be not difeouraged at the feoffs and re-proaches:thou niayelt meet with in thy fhert way to hea¬ven ; for be affured, that God will not only glorify thy fouland body in heaven, but he will as fure make thy memoryglorious upon earth. Oh ! let not one troubled thought forthy wife and babes arife within thee, thy God will be ourGod and portion, he will be a hufband to thy widow, anda father to thy children ; the grace of thy God will be fuf-ficient for us. Now, my dear, 1 defire willingly and freelyto refign up my right of thee to my Father, and thy Fa¬ther, who hath the greateff part and interell in thee. Tho’men have feparated us for a time, yet our merciful Godwill bring us together again, where we ihall eternally enjoyone another, never to feparate more ; and let me hear howGod bears up thy heart, and let me tafte of the comfortsthat fupport thee, that they may be as pillars of marble tobear up my heart. I can write no more.Farewel, Farewel, My Dear, til) we fhall meet wherewe fhall bid farewel no more; till which time, I leave theein the. hands of a tender-hearted Father, and do the hefttill I Ihall reft with thee in heaven.MARY LOVE.A letter7Mr, CtiR ISTUFhG R LOVE.A Letter from Mr. Christopher Love to hisWife, in Anfwer to two Letteis ho had recei vedfrom i.er.My nioft gracious beloved,I’m now going from a prifon to a palace, I have finifhedmy work, I’m now going to receive my wages, I’m go¬ing to heaven, where are two of my children, and leavingyou on earth, where there are three of my babes : Theietwo above need not my care, but the three below needyours; it comforts me to think, two of my children are inthebofom of Abraham, and three of them will be in thearms and care of fuch a tender and godly mother. I knowyou are a woman of a forrowful fpirit, yet be comforted,though your forrows be great for your hufband going outof the world, yet your pains ihall be the lefs in bringingyour child into the world, you fhall be a joyful mother,though you be a fad widow ; God hath many mercies inHere for you ; the prayer of a dying hufband for you willnot be loft: To my fliame I fpeak it. I never prayed foryou at liberty, as I have done in prifbn. 1 cannot writemuch, but I have a few prafiical counfels to leave withyou, viz.iff, Keep under a found, orthodox, foul-fearching mini-flry. Oh! there are many deceivers gone out into the world,but Chrilt’s flieep know his voice, and a ftranger they willnot follow. Attend any minilfer that teacheth the way ofGod in .truth, and follow Solomon’s advice, Prov xix. 27.adly, Bring up your children in the knowledge and ad¬monition of the Lord. The mother ought to be a teacherin the father’s abfence, Pror. xxxi. 1. ‘ The words that‘ his mother taught him.’ And Timothy was initru&edby his grandmother, 1 Tim. i. y.jdly, Pray in your famiiv daily, that yours may be inthe number of the families who call upon God.4thly, Labour for a meek and quiet fpirit, which, in thefight of God, is of great price, 1 Pet iii 4.ythly, Pore not on the comforts you want, but upon themercies you have, look rather at God’s end in affli&ing,than to the meafure and degree of your affliftion.6thly, _.abour to clear»up your evidence for heaven,when God takes from you the comforts of earth, fo that asyour fufferings do abound, your confolation in Chrilt mayabound much more, 2 Cor. i. f.Though it be good to mamtarfi a holyjealoufy of the de-ceitfulnefs of the heart, yet it is ill for you to cherilh fearsand:v '' ! Wi*' 'V*''; i-'■ .fPgr; . ;'$ The rrediffianSyand doi)!«= touching the truth of yourgraces: If ever I hadconfidence touching the grace of another, I hare confidenceof grace in you, as Peter faid of SyfaanuV, I am periuadedthat this is the grace of God wherein ve hand, i Pet. ver. 12.7thly, O my dear foul! wherefore dolt thou doubt,whofe heart has been upright, whofe walking Iras been ho¬ly, &c. I could venture my ioul this day, in thy ibul’sfiead, fuch a confidence have I in you.Sthly, When you find your heart fecurc, prefuniptuousand proud, then pore upon corruption more than grace;then look upon your graces without your infirmities.othly, Study the covenant of grace, and merits of Chrifl,and be troubled if you can: you are interelled in fuch a co¬venant that accepts purpoles for performances, defter fo^deeds, lincerity for perfection, die righteoufnefs of another,viz. that of Jefus Chrift, ar it were our own alone. Oh,my love! red thou in the love of God, in the bofom ofChrift.tothly, Swallow up your will in the will of God, it is abitter cup we are to drink, bu; it is the cup our Father hathput into our hands: when Paul was to fuffer at Jerufalem,the Chriftians would fay, ‘ The will of the Lord be done.*Oh! fay ye fo when I go to Tower-Hill, ‘ The will of the‘ Lord be done.’nthly, Rejoice in my joy. To mourn forme inordinate¬ly. argues, that you either evy or fufpcift my happinefs.The joy of the Lord is my fhength, Oh ! let it be yoursalfo. Dear wife, farewel, I will call thee wife no more. Ifhall fee thy face no more, ye;, I am net much troubled ;for now I am going to meet the bridegroom, the Lord Je¬fus, to whom I fliall be eternallv married. (I2thly, Refufe not to marry, when God offers you a fairopportunity ; but be fure you marry iadie Lords and oneof a good difpofition that he nay not giigve you, and oneof a comfortable livelyhood in t he world!!Farewel, dear love, and again I fay Farewe!, LordJefus be with your fpirit, the Maker of heaven an.', earthbe a hufband to you, and the Father of our Lord JelusChrift be a Father to your children —So pr^ys,From the Tower of London,Augufl22d, ids 1. the dayof my glorification.Your dying, yet moft affec¬tionate friend till death.Cli-aSTOFfftR LOVEFINIS,v