GRUELCOMMITTED BY/ROBERT JOHNSTONE,*ON THE BODY OFMISS JASE HEIBERSOI,\Near Rose vale Village on thebanks of the Humber, a fewmiles from Hull,On Saturday, 27th June, 1863PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,1863.-8lfc £10 0&J "'.7? e7s?98Dl: :> o'wa s /xecfnmH Q.^ilo c? ^g.3dI 898i .aiiift ffi\S ,nbi ste8 nOI „ i.. '/Cl•' H T1 ■ l (J , ■ ,1■ :■ .CRUEL MURDER.Another most atrocious deed of blood has beenbrought to light in the usually quiet locality ofRosevale village, which has caused a sensation inthat district which would be difficult to describe,as both the murdered lady and the accused aremost respectably connected.Miss Jane Henderson, the deceased, was daugh¬ter of the late Mr James# Henderson, an inn¬keeper, who died about two years ago ; his widow,after his death, removed with her only daughterto a villa in the neighbourhood of Rosevale, onthe banks of the Humber, where she is now re¬siding. Robert Johnstone, who is now in custodyfor the murder, is the son of a respectable farmer,and considerable proprietor in the same parish.From what we have been able to learn of thismost appalling case, it appears that Robert John¬stone had formed an intimacy with Miss Hender¬son soon after her coming to this place, that thoirattachment had been mutual, and it was under¬stood by both of their parents that it would growinto a union, alike congenial to all parties. Itappears that an illicit connection had been carry¬ing on between them for some time, and that shehad become pregnant without disclosing her situa¬tion to any one except Robert, the father of herchild. Robert’s visits soon became less frequent.4and, in a very short time ceased altogether ; when,laying aside all restraint, he courted another ladywho, to her honour, be it told, knew nothing ofhis former intimacy with Miss Henderson. Thisyoung lady possessed a considerable fortune,and hewas upon thieve of making her his bride, only oneobject stood in the way,' and that was Miss Hen-.deison. Hettfembled at the'thoitght of that com-ihg to light,, winch could not long remain a secretHe was determined to put Miss' Henderson outr)Qgrjr)Qj* afj4 of J*»•>•{»>L«/-rxof the way by diabolically taking her life. Heaccordingly sent her, a note, which was found onher person, the night previous to the murder, tomeet hipr at nine o'clock in a grore on the banksof the, Humber, and hdt far from the housed Theconfiding young woman obeyed the summons,when it appears that he murdered her on the spot,and threw her.body into the fiver. On Mondayfollowing, as Mr Berkwith and some othei’s werewalking by the idver side, something attractedtheir attention in a small creek, when drawingnear to the spot they perceived it to be a humanbeing. On procuring assistance, it was draggedto the side, and found to be the body of a femalewith a deep gash on the throat, and two despei-atecuts on the abdomen The police were promptlyon the spqt, and the body was conveyed to theCrown Inn, where an inquest was held and thebody was identified; wfeep the body was undressed,a piece of paper was found in the left side of thedress, which after being ca.efully dried and read,•‘an nearly as follows : —My Dear Miss Henderson,—i liope you will forgive all the injuries Ihave done. I know that you have heard the re-pert that I am to get married. It is all false, donot believe it. Will you meet me once more inthe Willow Grove at nine o'clock', to-night, andI shall give you proof of my truthful! ness for over.Do not forgot nine o’clock. Be sure and destroythis hurried note, as it might fall into your mo¬ther’s hands, and she would think both time andplace improper. Be sure and burn it—nineo’clock.—Yours, R. J.The initials affixed to the letter, as well as theirkeeping company, at once fixed suspicion onHobert Johnstone; and the Coroner’s jury re¬turned a verdict of wilful murder against him,He was accordingly committed to the county pri¬son to take his tiial at the next assizes.CONFESSION.The letter written by her betrayer and mur¬derer was found on her person. An order for hisapprehension being issued, he was taken intocustody. When brought into the presence of hismurdered victim he appeared greatly agitated.The authorities told him that he was charged withthe murder of Miss Henderson, which he stronglydenied. When asked if the letter which washanded to him for inspection, was his property,he fainted away, and on being brought to a stateof consciousness, that the letter was written byhimself.6INTERVIEW.His aged father and mother visited him. Onentering his cell, the scene that presented itselfwas of the most heart rending description, tearsof sorrow were shed by the unhappy prisoner, alsoby his parents. They lifted him from his knees,embraced him with kindness, and requested himto obtain the forgiveness of God, whose law hehad so greatly violated. “Dear parents,” ex¬claimed the unhappy prisoner, “had I but followedyour advice, I should not now have been brandedwith the name of murderer. I hope God willbless you, my dear parents, for the love and atten¬dance you have shown me.” At last his motherasked him in reference to the letter.found on MissHenderson’s person, when he choked with griefcould utter no more than the emphatic words,“ I wrote it.” When the time allowed for thevisit expired, they were removed amidst tears andsobs, and a few incoherent words were all theycould utter to their disconsolate son.7VERSES.You young men and maidens, I pray you take warningBy this cruel tragedy I’m going to relate ;For the death of my sweetheart, who ne’er did offend me,I’m bound in strong irons my trial to wait.My name’s Robert Johnstone, and near unto Rosevale,My father, a farmer, respected does dwell,Being his only son he did rear me tender,Till to swearing and drinking I unfortunately fell.I fell deep in love with an Innkeeper’s daughter,A charming young creature, Jane Henderson by name,Her sweet comely features and manners so courteous,In my wretched bosom raised a fierce flame.And oft by the Humber we’ve wandered together,While fondly I swore I would make her my bride,Ah! little she thought that I tried to deceive her,While I smiled in her face as I walked by her side.Unknown to her parents a long time we courted.Till at length my dear Jane proved with child ;And often she urged me to keep by my promise,As fondly and sweetly upon me she smiled.Dear Robert, she cried, you’ve oftentimes told me,You would make me your own, for yeu loved me so dear;0 think of my fate, if my mother should know it,Pray make me your wife, for my time it is near.1 sent her a letter one evening to meet me,By the banks of the Humber where the willow trees grow;And there we’ll appoint the day for our weddingBut be sure come alone, and let ne person know.8On the swift winga of love she flew there to meet me,O'erjoyed to think that she’d soon be n.y wife jAh ! little she thought that her days they were numbered,The man she loved dearly would deprive her of life.By the hair of the head I did seize this poor creature,And out of my pocket I drew a large knife ;I said, you young harlot, no more youTl torment me,For this very night I'D deprive you of life.' V‘ c ,: [ < ti'U Tf.Dfl / i' • inniwuf il m^n • tfI plunged it into her bosom and mangled her bodyIn various parts while the blood it did flow ;She fell on her knees,, and implored for mercy,While murdered she sank under many a blow.Her cries I ne’er minded, po mercy I showed her,While she cried dearest Robert, 0 spare my sweet life;For the sake of your body,, I beg you’ll have mercy,And I never will ask you to make me your wife.laif'OSOl bs7ebn£\7 ov'qw iQ(,rtnuIr Gtlj yd "io ^ " *Her throat then I cut, while the blood flowed profusely,Then she fell like a corpse, most dreadful to view;My crimcrto conceal,I drew.her near the water, 'And into the Humber her body I threw.A few days after some people were walkingOn the banks- of the Humber so lovely and green:■ ,.o In AWhen they spied her fair body by the side of the water,Ab mangled and wounded that night she had been.mb blot woiilnatlo sv'xjot ,haho efli fftedoff imG'They ran for assittance, and soon did discoverA letter containing her murderer’s name ; 1 0By the storm hand ofjustice he’s now o.y.ertakeri,And doubtless the murderer will die for the same-,om team of gninovo euo Teifel c zed irroaT; wcigroo:! wollivr o/fleisriw tsdtnnll edt lo rJand edtg ubbovr tuo rol yah eiLt iaioqqn II’ow ore.It hnA.woiul uoarsq en tel Luc t9iiofc ernes ems sJ iwflf