THEOR,THE LIFE OFPHILIP PARSON,OF BIRMINGHAM.Containing his Reflections on seeing Eight Personsexecuted at Washwood-Heath, near Birming¬ham, April 19th, 1802, with a continu¬ation of his history to Jan. 1805.WRlfTEN BY HIMSELF.>ALSO,THE LIFE OFTHE BLESSED VIRGIN MARY.KILMARNOCK:kRINTLD BT II. CRAWFORD.1815.IHHiTHELIFE OF PHILIP PARSON.IW AS born in the neighbourhood of Birming-ham, and was put to the Button trade. Dur¬ing my apprenticeship I was very steady and so¬ber, and gave great satisfaction to my master,who often told me he meant to assist me in set¬ting out in life, as a reward for my good conductThese good beginnings were very pleasant to myparents, who always gave me good advice, ancwere very desirous to promote my welfare. Af¬ter the expiration of rp^r.apprenticeship, I wroughtfor some time as a journeyman ; when, havingmore money at my disposal, I began to frequenta public house, where it was customary for a con¬siderable number of mechanics to meet every even¬ing, to read the newspapers, “ Paine’s Rights o:Man,” and other publications of a similar na,ture. In process of time, these who were first con¬verted to Paine’s political opinions, introduced his« Age of Reason.” At first, I had some objec-tions to hear it read, but they were soon over!ruled ; and, I am sorry tf> say, I became as grea^an admirer of his religious as of his poixticascheme.I was not at the pains to examine my Bible, butook for granted all that he said. Indeed, I warsometimes afraid lest Christianity should be trueespecially in a fit of sickness which I once had,when I thought there was but a step between meand death. I then began to ask myself, “ Whatif the Bible should be tru& ?” I invaiiably answer-1 ed, “ I shall be miserable to all eternity.”On my recovery, however, I was more profli¬gate than before ; and as I worked but little, Ifound myself very much embarrassed. On men¬tioning my situation to one of my companions,he told me he could relieve me, if I would engageto keep a secret; which I promised to do. HeHe said, if I would give him half-a-guinea, hewould put me in possession of a box, containingsomething of considerable value; though he did; not inform me what the box contained, yet I ea¬sily understood by his manner, that it was basecoin It war. delivered to me in. the street, whenit was quitv dark. On returning home, I foundi it contained & considerable number of pieces ofbase coin, in imitation of half-crowns and shil¬lings. I was much pleased with my bargain; itso much resembled the current coin of the king-1 dom, that I thought I should have but little diffi¬culty in paying it away.My confidants finding I was likely to be staunchin their cause, proposed to me a scheme mucht more lucrative, viz. to pass forged notes, whichI was to have upon very advantageous terms. Inputting off which, I was sometimes in danger ofbeing discovered.At times I was so much alarmed with the fearof detection, that I could not compose myself tosleep for several nights together; and when aa-f1ture vis quite exhausted, and I was overpowered^by sleep, 1 used to imagine myself pursued by^'justice, conveyed to prison, arraigned, condem-i:ned, carried to the gallows, and suspended hypthe neck, when I have been suddenly awaked,and transported with joy on finding it was only adream. The agitation of my mind was sometimes svisibly expressed by a pale countenance, and a itrembiing hand : especially when any of my asso- <dates were arrested and brought to justice, fear- iicg lest they should impeach me, and that mycrimes would find me out. I often resolved to ■amend, and support myself by honest industry;but having been so long accustomed to vice and iidleness, my resolutions proved ineffectual.In the beginning of the year 1802, I began to :think again about religion: and one day in parti¬cular, my mind* was powerfully impressed withthis thought,—‘ Perhaps the Christian Religion istrue.’ I then determined to act the part of a wiseman, by being on the safe side of the question.The temptation which I felt to attend the execu¬tion at Washwood-Heath, on Easter Monday, wastoo powerful to be resisted. I approached theawful spot with trembling steps. I arrived a con¬siderable time before the unfortunate sufferers,when I began to reflect on the many and highlyaggravated crimes of my past life. I felt what Icannot describe. For some time I w'as unable talook upwards. I smote upon my breast, and said,‘ God be merciful to me a sinner !’ When theapproach of the malefactors was announced, Iasked myself, ‘ Why am I not one of them i forfBurely I deserve the gallows !’ I said, ‘ It is ofi thy mercy, O Lord, that I am not consumed !'I resolved to make.all the reparation in my pow-#er to any whom I had injured;, if I could do it>pTivately.After the awful scene was closed, I returnedi dome with a heart deeply oppressed with grief.!On my way I was overtaken by an old acquain-itance, who asked me if I wanted any thing in his'♦way. I kn^w what he alluded to, and told himill did not-, that 1 had had enough, and too mucnn that way already ; that I was determined to re-orm ; and before I parted with him exhorted himfito do the saane". He heard me very patiently, andaid he thought it would be b.stfor us all. WhenIt:I came home, I immediately hurtled all my badotes, which amounted to more than jG50. Ipened my Bible, and my attention was arrested|tby these words : ‘ Let the wicked forsake his way,(land the unrighteous man his thoughts, and letim return unto the Lord, and he will have mercypon him,’ which .very much encouraged me iniy good purposes. Tire next day 1 went to myork, and found myself more happy in my law-ul employment, than I had done for a consider-ble time before.Soon after this, I went to a place of publicorship $ the subject of the minister’s discourseWas prayer-, he explained its nature, objects, andSidvantages. While speaking on the subject ofjarayer, he mentioned the pardon of sin as one ofi.hem, which he observed was a present blessing,tie proved from the holy scriptures, that it was■6free for every true penitent. ‘ He pardoneth andabsolveth all them that truly repent, and unfeign-dedly believe his holy gospel.’I was now more fully convinced of my need ofpardon than before. I sought it with all my heart;nor did I seek it in vain; for I soon found «re¬demption in the blood of Christ, even the forgive¬ness of my sins.’ I began now to read my Bible,which l had long neglected ; and viewed it as adivinely inspired book, containing truths worthyof the great author.The education of my children having been most :shamefully neglected, I sent them to a Sunday |School, where they were taught to read the holy (■scriptures, to fear God, and honour the king.Having contracted several debts in the time of :my impiety, I began to discharge them; and in iorder to do this, I was diligent in my business, (and fared very hard: but my scanty morsel, be- .)ing sanctified bv the word of God and prayer,was sweet and pleasant to me. I soon found that* Godliness is profitable unto all things, havingthe promise of the life that now is, and of thatwhich is to come.’1 intimated a determination to make restitution Ito any whom I had injured. Notwithstanding I thad uttered much base coin, and many forged Inotes, yet it was difficult to find out the injured 1persons ;—however, 1 knew a few, who, having rkept the base coin in their pockecs longer than [was proper, were not able to pay it away. < I also iknew two persons who had each a forged note,which they had received from me, to whom I senta guinea note, with the following letter:—7‘ SxRj—Inclosed you .faave a note, valueIs. The only disclosure I can make at pre-isent, is just to state, that I have injured you toithat amount, and that I cannot be easy in myiconscience without making you full satisfaction.For the recovery of your right, you ar$r indebtedito the grace of God, which has wrought an effec-iual change in my heart, and made me an honestman.I am, your humble and penitent Servant,The Writer.’About half a year after my conversion, one of:my old companions in iniquity, (viz. the man who'accosted me on returning from the execution atWashwood-Heath), was apprehended for ciFeringa forged note. After his commitment, he wroteme a very affecting letter, hegging me to comeland see him : but 1 thought it most proper to su-jspend my visit upon the'issue of his trial.At the ensuing assizes he was found guilty;land being a notorious offender, was left for exe¬cution. A few days after, I received the follow¬ing letter:* My very dear Friend,‘ The issue on which you suspended yourvisit is now determined.—I have no hope of life!!Had I hearkened to, and been influenced by yourgood counsel, I should not have been in this dread¬ful situation ; dreadful, both with respect to bodyand soul! My horrible cell and galling chains areterrific !—but this is only a faint representation ofeternal darkness, fire, and chains ! O wretchedman,—what shall I do ? Locks, bolts, and im¬penetrable walls forbid my flight; I must enduremy situation, and yet it is intolerable. Do, do,'come and see me without delay. Let me see youat least once before death separate us for ever !The good advice you gave me on our way fromWashwood-Heath, recurs to my remembrancewith many aggravated circumstances,—it sunkdeep into my heart the same evening, after I ar¬rived at home ; but going the next day among myold companions in wickedness, I forgot it, andmy mind became as callous as it had been at anyformer period of my life. Life is rapidly hasten-in" away •. J ^ath, judgment, ar»u eternity,assume a terrible form 1—I shall look for you withgreat impatience and anxiety.Yours, &c»Upon the receipt of this letter, I determinedto fulfil my promise immediately—He said, ‘ O,my friend, you find me in an awful situation ! Iam ruined for ever. It is all over with me ! Oninquiring into the state of his mind, I found itapproached nearly to desperation. I explained to‘him the nature of evangelical repentance; andset before him the Lord Jesus Christ, as the Sa¬viour of sinners; in whom I exhorted him to be¬lieve for present pardon, and acceptance withGod. I prayed with him several times ; and whenI left him, I referred hun to ‘ tjie Lamb of God,who taketh away the sir»§ of the world.’—He wasexecuted shortly after; but I have not been ableito learn that there was any hope in his death.I had often prayed that God would make myiwife a subject of the same change which he had■wrought in me, for though she had not been so'outwardly wicked as many of her neighbours ;jyet she was not converted, or regenerated oy theHoly Ghost. When l hrst urged this importantsubject upon her, she saw no need of it: but itpleased God soon to convince her of the sin of herheart. Seeing herself a ruined sinner, she appli-ted by faith to the Lord Jesus Christ; and I trusti was justified freely through his blood. Her con¬version was a great accession to my happiness. I: now went on in the Christian way, rejoicing in1 God my Saviour ; making mention of his righte-i ©usness daily, and of his only. It often afforded1 me a high degree of pleasure, to hear my chil-i dren read the ho’y scriptures, and sing hymnsi and spiritual songs, which they had learned ati their Sunday School. It is easy to conceive, that'l my present situation must be infinitely preferablej to my past state. Having taken upon me the yokei of Christ, I am constrained to affirm, that it isj easy, and his burden light; and I can assure my( readers, I find so much personal and domestici happiness, that I would not exchange my presenti situation for the whole wcrM. I enjoy so muchi| comfort, and reap so many spiritual advantagesif in attending the house of God, that I would ra-j| ther be a door-keeper therein than dwell in theij tents of wickedness. My delight is with the« people of God : I often take sweet counsel with30them, and feel resolved to live and die with themilYea, ‘ This people shall be my people, and thei:God shall be my God.’Within the last six months, I have reflectedmuch on the miserable condition of many FreesThinkers in their last moments, with some owhom I was intimately acquainted. I will tak*the liberty of mentioning one, of whose deathwas a witness.On entering his room! was struck with amqzement by hisghastly and terrific countenance,whidsufficiently indicated the horror of his guilty conscience. On inquiring how he felt himself, hireplied, * Miserable and wretched in the extremeI asked him, (with a view to expose the fallacyand futility of his creed,) ‘ But will your rationascheme of religion afford you no consolation ityour present extremity ?’ Ide answered in thinegative, with an emphasis which I shall not soctforget. After pausing a little, he said, ‘ Sure!I was the greatest fool in the world to becom*the dupe of wicked and designing men; I anjustly consigned to that hell, the idea of whichonce laughed at.’ Reminding him of the compassion of God to sinners, he very abruptly interrupted me, exclaiming, ‘ But I am not penitentI have no compunction in my callous heart: it ithe feat of eternal damnation that is awakened irmy guilty soul!—and this fear is the pledge an«foretaste of the torment of the damned. Eterrafire ! eternal fire ! Who can dwell with everlast1irg burning ? I dare not die,’ continued he, ‘ an*yet must! O that I had another day to live !—'11I but I cannot l»e indulged in my wish : and whatif I could, it would answer no end ! I must pe¬rish, I must endeavour to reconcile myself to thethought: I am dying, I am dying !’After these affecting exclamations he became alittle more dispassionate: which determined me torun home for a short account of the deatli of theEarl of Rochester, which T had in my possession.On re-entering his room, one of his attendantsinformed me, he had been much worse in my ab¬sence than he was before : he was then, however*conaposed, which gave me an opportunity of read¬ing it to him.Perceiving he had no objection, I read theEarl’s recantation, which his Lordship subscribedand ordered to be published.While I was reading, his attention seemed tobe much engaged : but I had no sooner done, thenhe became very restless : and shrieking, cried out,‘ See, see !—don’t you see them ? They are comefor me. Save me, save me ! I must go to myown place,—God save me ! Whither shail I goto hide myself? I am sinking,—I am going ! —Damned, damned, forever damned !—And whileuttering the last word, died, with infernal hor¬ror, strikingly pourtrayed in his countenance.Will infidils, and sinners of other descriptions,not fear and tremble, having such awful examp¬les before their eyes ? Let them reflect on the justseverity of God ; and not forget, that he is to thefinally impenitent a ‘ consuming fire,’ Hebrewsxii. 29.(■piThe folhiying Itautiful Stanzas are selected, At suitableto ike foregoing Narrative.Rark, how the daring sons of infamy,Who once dissolv’d in pleasures lay,And laugh’d at this tremendous day.To rocks and mountains now to hide them cry;But rocks and mountains all in ashes lie.Their shame’s so mighty, and so strong their fear.That rather than appearBefore a God incensed, they would be hurl’dAmongst the burning ruins of the world,And lie conceal’d, if possible, for ever there.Ponfret.The Lord, the sov’reign, sends his summons forth,Calls the south nations, and awakes the north;From east to west the sounding orders spreadThro’ distant worlds, and regions of the dead ;No more shall Atheists mock his long delay;His vengeance sleeps no more; behold, the day,Behold the Judge descends; his guards are nigh,Tempest and lit * attend him dow n the sky :Heaven, earth and hell draw near; let all thingscomeTo hear his justice, and the sinner’s doom.  Sinners, awake betimes ; ye fools, be wise ;Aw.,Ice, before this dreadful morning rise;Change your vain thoughts, your crooked waysamend;Fly to t e Saviour, make the Judge your friend;Lest, like a lion his last vengeance tearYour trembling souls, and no deliverer near.Watts.13•. >.THELIFE OF THEBLESSED VIRGIN MART.The Annunciation, by the Angel Gabriel.THE angel Gabriel was sent from the Lordunto a city of Galilee, named Nazareth, toa Virgin, espoused to a man whose name was Jo¬seph, of the house of DaVid, and the Virgin’sname was Mary ; and the angel came in unto her,and said, Hail, thou that art highly favoured ; theLord is with thee, and blessed art thou amongwomen.And when she saw him, she was troubled athis saying, and cast in her mind what manner ofsalutation this should be. And the angel saidunto her, Fear not, Mary •, for thou hast foundfavour with God. And, behold, thou shalt con¬ceive in thy womb, and bring forth a Son, andshall caii his name JESUS. He shaH be great,and shall be called the Son of the Highest; andthe Lord God shall give unto him the throne ofhis father David ; and he shall reign over thehouse of Jacob for ever ; and of his kingdom thereshall be no end. Then said Mary unto the angel.How shall this be, seeing I know not a man11And the angel answered and said unto her, TheHoly Ghost shall come upon thee, and the powerof the Highest shall overshadow thee ; thereforealso that holy thing, which shall be born of thee,shall be called the Son of God. And, behold,thy cousin Elisabeth, she hath also conceived ason in her old age; and this is the sixth monthwith her who was called barren. For with Godnothing shall be impossible. And Mary said,Behold the handmaid of the Lord ; be it unto meaccording to thy word. And the angel departedfrom her.Mary's Visit to Elisabeth, the Afother of St. J)ithe Baptist.AND Mary arose in those days, and went intothe hill-country with haste, into a city of Judea;and entered into the house of Zacharias, and sa¬luted Elisabeth. And it came to pass, that whenElisabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the babe,leaped in her womb, and Elisabeth was filled withthe Holy Ghost, and she spake out with a loudvoice and said, Blessed art thou among women,and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, and whenceis this to me, that the mother of my Lord should'come to me; for, lo, as soon as the voice of thysalutation sounded in mine ears, the babe leapedin my womb for joy. And blessed is she thatbelieved ; for there shall be a performance of thosethings which were told her from the Lord.And Mary said, My soul doth magnify theLord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God mySa-15'I viour. For he hath regarded the low estate ofhis .hand-maiden ; for, behold, from henceforth■ all generations shall call me Blessed. For he thatis mighty hath done to me great things ; and holyholy is his name. And his mercy is on them that. fear him from generation to generation. He hath: shewed strength with his arm: he hath scattered: the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He. hath put down the mighty from their seats, andij exalted them of low degree. He hath filled the! hungry with good things, and the rich he hathsent empty away. He hath helped his servantIsrael, in remembrance of his mercy ; as he spakej to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed fori ever. And Mary abode with her about threemonths, and returned to her otvn house.The Birth of cur Lord Jesus Christ, of the Virgin Mary.NOW the birth of Jesus Christ was on thiswise; when as his mother Mary was espoused toJoseph, before they came together, she was foundwith child of the Holy Ghost.And it came to pass in those days, that therewent out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that allthe world should be taxed. (And this taxing wasfirst made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria.)And all went to be taxed, every one into his owncity. And Joseph also went up from Galilee, outof the city of Nazareth, into Judea, unto the cityof David, which is called Bethlehem, (because'16lie was of the house and lineage of David,) to betaxed with Mary, his espoused wife,with child. And so it was, that whithere, the days were accomplished that she shouldhe delivered. And she brought forth her first¬born son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes,and laid him in a manger, because there was noroom for them in the inn.•Jesus Chnst revealed to the Shepherds, and the Song ofthe Angels at his Birth,AND there were in the same country, shep'-herds abiding in the field, keeping watch overtheir flock by night. And, lo, the angel of theLord came upon them, and the glory of the Lordshone round about them ■, and they were soreafraid, And the angel said unto them, Fear not;for, behold, I bring you good tidings of greatjoy, which shall be to all people. For unto youis born this day, in the city of David, a Saviour,which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be asign unto you : ye shall find the babe wrapped inswaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And sud¬denly there was with the angel a multitude of theheavenly host, praising God and saying, Gloryto God in the highest, and on eartli peace, goodwill toward men.And it came to pass, as the angels were goneaway from them into heaven, the shepherds saidone to another, Let us now go even unto Beth-being greati they were17lehem, and see this thing which is come to pass,which the Lord hath made known unto us ; andthey came with haste, and found Mary and Jo-iseph, and the babe lying in a manger; and whenI they had seen it, they made known abroad the! saying which was told them concerning this child;i and all they that heard it wondered at those thingsiwhich were told them by the shepherds. But1 Mary kept all these things, and pondered them iniiher heart, and the shepherds returned, glorifyingland praising God for all the things that they kadiheard and seen, as it was told unto them.' The Epiphany, or Manifestation of Christ to the Gentiles,NOW, when Jesus was born in Bethlehem ofJuda, in the days of Herod the king, beholdthere came wise men from the east to Jerusalem,saying, Where is he that is born king of the Jews?for we have seen his star in the east, and are cometo worship him. When Herod the king had heardthese things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalemwith him. And when he had gathered all thechief priests and scribes of the people together,he demanded where Christ should be born; andthey said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea; forthus it is written by the Prophet, And thou Beth¬lehem, in the land of Juda, art not the leastamong the princes of Juda ; for oat of thee shallcome a Governor, that shall rule my people Is¬rael. Then Herod, when he had privily called18the wise men, enquired at them diligently whattime the star appeared ; and he sent them to Beth¬lehem, and said, Go and search diligently for theyoung child ; and when ye have found him, bringme word again, that I may come and worshiphim.When they had heard the king they departed ;and, lo, the star which they saw in the east, wentbefore them, till it came and stood over wherethe young child was. When they saw the star,they rejoiced with exceeding great joy, and whenthey were come into the house, they saw theyoung child with Mary his mother, and fell downand worshipped him ; and when they had openedtheir treasures, they presented unto him gifts }gold, and frankincense, and myrrh. And beingwarned of God in a dream, that they should notreturn to Herod, they departed into their owncountry another way. And when they were de¬parted, behold, the angel of the Lord appearethto Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, and takethe young child and his mother, and flee intoEgypt, and be thou there until I bring thee word,for Herod \m11 seek the young child to destroyhim. When he arose, he took the young childand his mother by night, and departed into Egypt;and was there until the death of Herod ; that itmight be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lordby the prephet. Saying, Out of Egypt have I cal¬led my bon.19Herod's Massacre of the Innocents*—THEN Herod, when he saw that he was mock-id of the wise men, was exceeding wroth, andfent forth, and slew all the children that were iniethlehem, and in all the coasts thereof, fromwo years old and under, according to the time(ivliich he had diligently inquired of the wise men.Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Je-emiah the prophet,, saying, In Rama was therei voice heard, lamentation, and weeping, andtreat mourning ; Rachel weeping for her children,[jmd would not be comforted, because they areiiot.But when Herod was dead, behold, an angel>f the Lord appeareth in a dream to Joseph inEgypt, saying, Arise, an 1 take the young childmd his mother, and go into the land of Israel;for they are dead which sought tie young child’slife. And he arose, and took fhe young childand his mother, and came into the land of Israel.But when he heard that Archelaus did reign inJudea, in the room of his father Herod, he wasafraid to go thither : notwithstanding, being warn-,ed of God in a dream, he turned aside into the^parts of Galilee : and he came and dwelt in a citycalled Nazareth ; that it might be fulfilled whatwas spoken of by the prophets: He shall be cal¬led a Nazarene. And Jesus increased in wisdomand stature, and in favour with God and man.20Mary at the Marriage in Cana of Galilee, with a fur¬ther ai iiunt of her Life and Death.AND there wis a marriage in Cana of Gaiilee;and the mother of Jesus was there. And bothJesus was called, and his disciples, to the marriage.And when they wanted wine, the mother of Je¬sus saith unto him, They have no wine. Jesussarth unto her, Woman, what have I to do withthee, mine hour is not yet come. His mothersaith unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith untoyou, do it. And there were set there six water-pots of stdne, after the manner of the purifyingof the Jews, containing two or three firkins apiece.Jesus saith unto them, Fill the water-pots withwater. And they filled them up to the brim.And he saith unto them, Draw out now, andbear unto the governor of the feast. And theybane it. When the ruler of the feast had tastedthe water that,was made wine, and knew notwhence it was, (but the servants which drew thewater knew ;) the governor of the feast called thebridegroom, and saith unto him, Every man atthe beginning do-h set forth good wine; andwhen men have well drunk, then that which isworse; but thou hast kept the good wine untilnow. This beginning of miracles did Jesus inCatia of Galilee, and manifested forth his glory ;and his disciples believed on him. After this hewent down to Capernaum, he and his mother.21BWl ,Jih* n ... >s , vt i al» A'wrfjWland his brethren, and his disciples; ^nd they| continued there not many days.While he talked to the people, behold, his; mother and his brethren stood without, desiringito speak with him. Then one said unto him,I Behold, thy mother, and thy brethren stand with-: out, desiring to speak with thee. But he answer-:ed and said unto him that told him, Who is my(mother? and who are my brethren? And htistretched forth his hand towards his disciples, andisaid, Behold my mother, and my brethren. For(■whosoever shall do the will of my Fatho^, whichis in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister,land mother.And when he was come into his own country,(he taught them ia t(heir synagogue, insomuchithat they were astonished, and said, Whence(hath this man this wisdom, and these mightyi works ? Is not this the carpenter’s son ? Is not(his mother called Mary ? and his brethren, James,i:Joses, and Simon, and Judas? and his sisters,care not they all with us ? Whence then hath thisuman all these things ? And they were offended in(him ; but Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not!|without liOnour, save in his own country, and inIjhis own house. And he did not many mighty»works tfiere because of their unbelief.Jesus having been betrayed, and delivered by1‘ilate to the Jews to be crucified, they took himland led him away; and he, bearing his cross,•iwent forth into a place called tlie place of a skuil,'iwhich is called in the Hebrew Golgotha ; where(ithey crucified him, and two others with him, oneither side one, and Jesus in the midst. Nowthere Stood by the cross of Jesus, his mother, anchis mothers sister Mary the wife of Cleophasand Mary Magdalene. When Jesus thereforesaw his mother, and the disciple standing whoirhe loved, he saith unto his mother, Woman, be¬hold thy son ! Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother ! And from that hour the discipltook her unto his own house. The disciple alluded to, is St. John the Evangelist; and we hav<no more concerning Mary, but what is derivesfrom tradition which informs us, that on th-banishment of St. John to the Island of Patmosshe accompanied him in his exile, and there diedSPIRITUAL HYMNS.Providence.1 ttOW are thy servants blest, O Lord,How sure is their defence!Eternal Wisdom is their guide,Their help Omnipotence.2 In foreign realms and lands remote,Supported by thy care.Through burning climes, I pass’d unhurt,And breath’d in tainted air.23S Thy mercy sweeten’d ev’ry sod,Made ev’ry region please :The hoary Alpine hills it warm’d,And smooth’d the Tyrrhene seas.4 Think, O my soul, devoutly think.How with affrighted eyes,Thou saw’st the wide extended deepIn all its horrors rise !5 Confusion dwelt in ev’ry face,And fear in ev’ry heart,When waves on waves, and gulphs on gulphs,O’ercame the pilot’s art.6 Yet then, from all my griefs, O Lord,Thy mercy set me free ;Whilst in the confidence of pray’rMy soul took hold on thee.7 For though on dreadful whirls we hungHigh on the broken wave,I knew thou wert not slow to hear,Nor impotent to save.8 The storm was laid, the winds retir’d,Obedient to thy will;The sea that roar’d at thy command,At thy command was still.9 In midst of dangers, fears, and death, ' ^Thy goodness I’ll adore.And praise thee for thy mercies past,And humbly hope for more.2-4The Song of the Blessed Firgin Mary.OUR snuls shall magnify the Lord,In God the Saviour we rejoice :While we repeat the Virgin’s song,May the same Spirit tune our voice !The Highest saw her low estate,And mighty things his hand hath done:His over-shadowing power and graceMakes her the mother of his Son.Let every nation call her Bless’d,And endless years prolong her fame :But God alone must be ador’d ;Holy and reverend is his name.To those that fsar and trust the Lord,His mercy stands for ever sure;From age to age his promise lives.And the performance is secure.He spake to Abra’m and his seed.In thee shall all the earth be bless’d $The memory of that ancient word.Lay long in his eternal breast.But now no more shall Israel wait,XT-.    ■’ •• 'mure trie vjemues lie roriorn ,Lo, the desire of nations comes;Behold the promised seed is born.FINIS.