*r Nimble and QuickVPick and chufe where you will, here is Some¬thing to pleafe every Body.C O NT AI N I N G T H £4t, HUMOURS of the AGE.. . X ‘BEINGWbimiical, witty, diverting, comical,and; uleful Remarks, on the Vir¬tue and Vices of the Times.IEntered according to Order.( 2 )Virtues and Vices of the Age, <&c.1 Never think of a wife till I amhungry; and then I look out for awhore, in hopes fhe will bring me toa morfel of bread. 1 love ftrong beerbut twice in the year; and that is inWinter and Summer. I hate Lawyersand Liars, becaufe they breed wrang¬ling and jangling. I would be a Sol¬dier, was there all plundering and nofighting. I love a Clergyman thatpra&ices what he preaches; but wemufl mind what he fays, not whathe does. If ever I marry. I’ll have theugliefl woman I can find, and thenI fhall be fure to have her to myfelf.Shew me a Poet, a Lawyer and a Quak¬er, and I’ll fhew you three Liars. Ofall the men in the world, blind menwalk the mod upright, and they arethe mod charitable; for they neverfee any one’s faults. Of all people,I pity Whores j for they hazard fouland body for a miferable livelihood.Was I a man j^n .power, I would buildAlms-houfes i©r*the rich, and main¬tain them at their owrf cod. Thegreated.( 3 )greateft folly in the world, is, to lovethe world. In ancient Ages, the worldbragged of feven wife men, but nowevery one is wife in his own conceit;but tho’ fome are wile, yet the moftare other wife. Of all calliirgs, I hateQuack Dolors, for, if they do good,the worM fhall hear faft enough ofit. The greateft enemies the whoreshave, are the French-pox, and thefmall-pox ; one fpoils their face, andthe other their conftitution. I hateriches for the danger that attendsthem; for I would not have my throatcut for a bufhel of gold. Ballad fing¬ers have the honefteft trade in theworld, for they always deal with rea¬dy money; it is alfo an ancient andan honourable employment, for Ho¬mer himfelf was one of the bufinefs.Sailors are the braveft and merrieftfellows alive, when there is but aninch between them and their grave.Though the Aftrologer be a wife manand tell future events, he feldomcan tell the man that cuckolded him,or when. It would puzzle a Philofo-pher, who to give the preference to,a chimney-fweeper, or Tom-turd-man.'ll( 4 )man, feeing they arc both ufeful andneceflary. fea and Tobacco are per¬nicious weeds, and grand thieves, anddeferve hanging more than High¬waymen, for they pick the pockets ofthe whole nation. What’s the diffe¬rence between ale-drapers and linen-drapers ; Only this, One cheats youwith froth, and the other with cloth.If extortioners cannot enter the king¬dom of Heaven, where mufl Ufurers,Tallymen and Pawn-brokers go ? ByCards and Dice a man is ruined in atrice; for gaming and whoring of¬ten hang together. Soldiers andButchers are bloody near relations,for they equally live bf killing andflaughtering. I never fee a Taylor,but he puts me in mind of cabbage,nor a Miller, or a Weaver, but I thinkof a Thief. Adlors and Apes are thegreatefl mimicks in the world; it ishard to determine whether they arerational creatures. Now good wo¬men and good fmall beer are hard tobeJfound;, yeothofe are good in theirkind. A fober wife boy is preferableto a vicious grey-headed old fool ;like as a living Dog is better than at. dead' ( 5 )dead Lion. Number me the flars inthe iky, and the fand on the fhore,and then I’ll number you the num-berlefs faults of lewd women: yet afair and virtuous woman is the -prideof nature, and the glory of the uni-verfe; but, where ihall I find her?Swearing and curfing is the languageof hell; which wicked people takepains to learn before they go there.Beauty is the faired: flower in na¬ture’s garden, then who would doaton fuch a fading toy ; yet, had I mywill, all Batchelors at the age of 20,fhould be obliged to marry, and livehoned with, haridfome women fortheir own fake, and homely women,for charity, I would eonflrain weal¬thy mifers to marry poor women,and rich ladies to marry poor Batche¬lors, in order to bring the world ona level if poflible. If I could difpofcof Nature, I would have all hypo¬crites with two faces, becaufe likewatermen, they look one way, androw another. If all men’s faultswere writ in their faces, what a blackfcroll would there appear in theirforeheads. Portioning of daughters,and(. 6 }and building of fhips are chargeablethings; yet, after all our coft andpains, they prove but leaky veflels.If I had three fons and one of thema dunce, two fhould pradlife Lawand Phyfic, and the third fhould bea Parfon. There are five great rari¬ties hard to be found, and thofe are,a black Swan, a Phoenix, a Unicorn,the Phil-ofopher’s Stone, and a maidat fixteen. There is one abominablepradfice I can’t help reminding youof, that is, neighbours going to lawabout trifles, wflen their familieshave fcarce food to eat. There are five 'things that are wonderful fwift, viz.Fame, which, like a fnow»ball, ga¬thers as it goes, a Mufket-fhot thatkills before you hear the report, theSight that reaches the higheft hea¬vens in an inftant, Thought that tra-verfes the globe in an inftant, andLightning, which kills the child inthe womb, and hurts not the mo¬ther, and alfo melts gold in a bagwithout finging the bag.Soqae fay, that England is the gar¬den of the world, but, as the King ofFrance fays, ‘ There is many a bitters weed‘ weed in it.’ Others call it a para-dife for women, a purgatory for fer-vants, and a hell for horfes.We have the handfomeft womenin the wrorld, I muft own, and wegive them the greateft privilege, viz.The honour of the hat, the wall, andthe third of eltates, and the like, yetthey feldom give any thing in re¬turn but a {'winging pair of horns,and like the devil, if you humour.them an inch, they will then take anell; but ftill there is no general rulewithout exceptions; what I fpeak isupon the common humour of man,one ftory is good till another is told,in the rpean time, give me leave tofpeak my thoughts, and thofe are,that I believe good hufbands makegood wives, and if they are bad, thereare fix of the one, and half a doz£nof the other, fo mend us all.And thus I’ve JiniJh’d what I firft propos’d^And if I’ve mere or lefs than truth dfclos’d;’Then what you like not, excufe me for this time,’Tis need makes old wives trot and Poets rhimc ;Therefore extend your halfpence if ye pleafe.And I’ll pray for you all my remaining days.CU RIO US: " '■ ( S )_ u # *• 'CURIOUS CONUNDRUMS,BY WAY OF QUESTION AND ANSWER.Quell. T/TfH f ls a mQn in debt like a*' nobleman?Anfw. Becaufe he has many towait on him.QJVhy isJwearing like aJJjabby coat ?A. Becaufe it is a bad habit.Why is a bad pen like a wickedman ?-4- Becaufe it wants mending.Why is a church-bell like>a goodJlory ?A. Becaufe it is often toll’d.Q. What is a man like, that is in themidjl oj a river and cannot Jhvim ?A. Like a man drowning.Q. Why is a drawn tooth like a thingforgot ?A. Becaufe it is out of one’s head.Q^Why is a book like a tree?A. Becaufe it is full of leaves.Q. Why is a good fermon like a plumb'pudding ?A. Becaufe there is reafons in it.FINIS.