TJIEBATTLEeONTAIHISft, STHE}Duke of Wellington’s DispatchI To Earl Bathurst,ALSO,TUE FLIGHT FROM BllTTSSELS;A»J> Ai Visit to the field of Battle*With a Qaecfipiiaa ofThe Engagement;AKQ A9VIS£T TO THE FRENCH I€OEEITA1(K\vw.. w tfwiBirortjnvrjjU'U -aSTIRLING:paisn» bySCOTLAND^Ss^^^SVj RDUKE OF WELLINGTON’SDISPATCHTO EARL BATHURST.Waterloo, June 19th 1815.My Lord,BUONAPARTE having collected the 1st, 2d, 3d,4 th and 6t.li corps of the French army, and the Im¬perial Guards and nearly all the cavalry, on theSambre, and between that river and the Meuse, be¬tween tire 10th and the 14th of the month, advancedon the 16th ami attacked the Prussian posts at Thu-in and Lobcz, on the Sambre, at day-light in themorning.did not hear of tliese events till {he evening ofthe 15th, and I immediately ordered the troops toprepare to march; and afterwards to march to the•lift, as soon as Iliad intelligence from other quar¬ters to prove that the enemy’s movement upon■Charleroi was the real attack.The enemy drove the Prussian posts from theSa.nbre on that day* and General Ziethen, whocommanded the corps which had been at Charleroi,retired upon Fleurus; and Marshal Prince Blucherconcentrated the Prussian army upon SombrelFe,holding the villages in front of his position of St.Amand and JLigny.'ll■3The eneYny continued his march along the roadfrom Charleroi towards Brussels, and on the sameevening, the 15th, attacked a brigaue of the armyof the Netherlands, under Prince de Weimar, post¬ed at Frasue, and forced it back to the farm houseon the same Voad, called Les Quartre BrasThe Prince of Orange immediately reinforced thisbrigade w;th another of the same division, underGeneral Perponcher; and, in the morning early, re¬gained part of the ground which had been lost, saas to have the cemtnand oftheconwnunicationlead«ing from Nivelles and Brussels, with Marshal BIu-cher’s position.In the meantime I had directed the whole armyto march upon Les Ciuartre Bras, and the 5th divi¬sion, under Lieutenant General Sir Thomas Picron,arrived at aboat half-past two in the day, followedby the corps of troops under the Duke of Brunswick,and afterwards by the contingent of Nassau,At this time the enemy commenced an attackupon Prince BTudkcr with bis whole force, except¬ing the Island id feorps; and a corps of cavalryunder General Keilermai;, with which he attackedOur post at Les Quartro Bras.The Prussian army maintained, thetr positionWith their usual gallantry and ^eraevevaace, againsta great disparity of numbers, as the 4th corps oftheir army, under General Bulow, had not joinecl,andT was not able to assist them as I wishad, as twas attacked «iyself, and the troops, the cavairy inparticular, which had a long distance to march, hadnet arrived.We maintained our position also, and completelydefeated and repulsed all the enemy’s attempts toget possession of it. fhe enemy repeatedly attack¬ed us with a large body of infantry end cavalry,supported by a numerous and powerful artillery ;■ 4-ne made'so^eta! charges with the cavairy upon ourinfantry, but all were repulsed in the steadiest, man-/ner. In this affair, his Roj'al Highness the Princeru Orange, the iduke of Brunswick, .and LieutenantGeneral Sir Thomas Picton, and Major-GeneralSir James Kefnpt, and Sir Denis Pack, who wereengaged A-om the commencement of the enemy’sattack, highly distinguished themselves.The troops of the rifth division, and those of theBrunswick corps, were long severely engaged, andconducted themselves with the utmost gallantry. Imust particularly mention the ‘28th, 42d, 78th, andf^d regiments, and the battalion of Hanoverians.Our loss was great, as your Lordship will per-,ceiv# by the enclosed return ; and I have particu¬larly to regret his Serene .Highness the Duke ofBiunswick, who fell, fighting gallantly, at the headof his troops.Although Marshal Blucher had maintained hisposition at Sombref, he still found himself muchweakent d by the severity of the contest in whichhe had been engaged, and, as the fourth corps hadpot arrived, he determined to fall back, and con¬centrated his army upon Wavre; and he marchedin the night after the action was over.'{'his movement of the Marshal’s rendered ne¬cessary a corresponding one on my part; and Iretired from the Farm of Quartre Bras upon Ge«napjie, and ther.ee upon Waterloo the next morn-,ing, the 17th, at ten o’clock.The enemy made no effort to pursue MarshalBlueher. On the contrary, a patrole which I sentto Sombref, in the morning, found all quiet, andthe enemy’s videttes fell back as the patrole ad¬vanced. Neither did he attempt to molest ourmarch to the rpar, although made in the middle ofthe dtty, excepting by following with a large bodyof cavalry (brought from hU right) the cavalryunder the Earl of Uxbridge.This gave Lord Uxbridge an opportunity ofcharging them with the 1st Life Guards, upon theirdebouche from tbe village of Genappe, upon whichoccasion his Lordship has declared himself to beI well satisfied with that regiment.The position which I took up, in front of Wa¬terloo, crossed the high roads from Charleroi andNivelle, and had its right thrown back to a ravinenear Merke Braine, which, was occupied, arid itsleft extended to a height above the hamlet Ter lajj Haye, which was likewise occupied. In front of| the right centre, and nesf the Nivella road, we| occupied the house and garden of Hougoumont,which covered the return of that flank; and in frontof the left centre, we occupied the farm of La HayeSainte. By our left we communicated with Mar¬sh*! Prince Blubber, at Wavre, through Ohaim :and the Marshal had promised me. that in ca$e weshould be attacked, lie would support me with oneor more corps, as might he necessary.The enemy collected his army,' with the excep¬tion of the third corps, which had been sent to ob¬serve Marshal Blucher, on a range of heights ioour front in the course of the night of the 17th an«li yesterday morning; arid about ten o’clock lie com- .menced a furious attack upon our post at Bougou-mont. I had occupied that past with «. detach¬ment from General Byng’s brigade of f- uarris,which was in position near its rear; and it was forI some time under the comwiaritj, of Lieutenant Colo¬nel Macdonald, and afterwards of Colonel Home ;and 1 am happy to a id, that it was maintained,throughout the day, with the utmost gallantry bytiieie brave troops, notwithstanding the repeatedefforts of large bodies of the enotny to obtaj*. po*-sessiofl of it., fc>I’ll is attack upon the right of our centre was ae-companied by a very heavy cannonade upon ourwhole line, which-was destined -to support the re¬peated attacks of cavalry, and infantry occasionallymixed, but sometimes separate, which were madeupon it. In one of these, the enemy carried theFarm-house of Haye Sainte, as the detachment ofthe light battalion of the legion which occupied ithad expended ali its ammunition, and the enemy oc-cupiedjthe only communication there was with them.The enemy repeatedly charged our infantry withhis cavalry; but these attacks were uniformly unsuc¬cessful, and they afforded opportunities to our ca¬valry to charge in one of which Lord E. Somer¬set’s bi igade, Royal Horse Guards, and first Dra¬goon GuatcK highly distingaished themselves; asdid that of Major General Sir W. Poreonby,'havingtaken many prisoners and an eagle.These attacks were repeated till &)fout seven inthe evening, when the enemy maife a desperateeffort with the cavalry mid infantry to force our leftcentre, near the ferni of La Haye Sainte, which,.after a severe contest, was defeated; and havingobserved that the troops retired fiom the attack ingreat confusion, and that tlio march of GeneralJBulow’s corps by Fritchermont upon Planchenoitanil La Celle Alliance, had begun to take effect ;and as I could perceive the fire of his cannon, andas Marshal Prince Blucher had joined in person,with a corps of bis army to the left of our line byOhain, I determined to attack (he enemy, and im- -jpediaicly advanced the whole line of infantry, sup¬ported by the cavalry and artillery. . The attack 3succeejed in every p&int; the enemy was forcedfrom his position on the heights, and tied in the ut- |•ost Confusion, leaving behind him> as far as Icould jfudg*, ong hundred and fifty pieces of can-non, wijh their ammunition, which fell into ourhands.I continued the pursuit till long after dark, andthin discontinued it, only on account of the fatigueof our troops, who had been engaged during twelvehours, and because I found myself on the sameroad with Marshal Blucher, who assured me ot hisintention to follow the enemy throughout the night:he has sent me word this morning, that he had .taken sixty pieces of cannon belonging to the Im¬perial Guard, and several carriages, baggage, &c.belonging to Buonaparte, in Gcnappe.I propose to move this morning upon Nivelles,and not to discontinue my operations,Your Lordship will observe, that such a despe¬rate action could not be fought, and such advan¬tages could not be gained, without great loss ; and,I am sorry to add, that ours has been immense.In Lieutenant General Sir Thomas Picton, hisMajesty has sustained the loss of an. officer whohas frequently distinguished himself in his service;and he fell, gloriously leading ' his division to acharge with bayonets, by which one of the mostse-rious attacks made by the enemy on our position,was defeated.The Earl of Uxbridge, after having successful^got through the arduous day received a wound byaimojt the last shot fired which will. I am afraid,deprive his Majesty for some time of his services.His lloyal Highness the Prince of Orange dis¬tinguished feimseif by his gallantry and corsduct tillhe received a wound from a musket ball, throughthe shoulder, which obliged him to quit the field.It gives me the greatest satisfaction to assoreyour lordship, that the army never, upon any oc¬casion, conducted itself better. The division ofG-uards, under Lieuteuant General Cooke, who bseverely wounded, Major-General 'Maitland, andMajor Byng, set an example which was followedhy all; and there is no officer, nor description oftroops, that did not behave well. 1 am also par¬ticularly indebted to Gcnetul Lord Hill, for his as¬sistance and conduct upon this, as upon all formerOccasionsI should not do justice tO_ my feelings or toMarshal Blucher and'the Prussian army, if [ didnot attribute the successful result of this arduousic.y to the cordial and timely assistance receivedfrom them.The operation of General Bulow upon the ene¬my’s flank, was a most decided one ; and, even ifI had not found myseh in a situation to make theattack, which’ produced the final result, it wouldhave forced the enemy to retire, it his attacksshould have failed; and would have prevented himfrom taking advantage of them, if they should un¬fortunately have succeeded.I send with this dispatch, two eagles, taken bythe troops in this action, which Major Percy willhave the honour of layii^g at the feet of his RoyalHighness—I beg leave to recommend him to yourlordship’s protection,y.. I have the honor, &c.(Signed) Wellincstox.his brother lie afterwards wrote,—Neverhad 1 ght so hard for victory,—and never, fromthe f. 1U try of the enemy had I been so near beingbeafen. In a letter to his mother, Lady Morning-ton, the Duke of Wellington says of Cuonoparte—“ That he did his duty—that he fought the battlewith infinite skill, bravery, and perseverance;—andthe victory is solely to be ascribed to the superiorphytieal force, and constancy of Sriti.-h soIdu;r;i.,'y.FLIGHT FROM BRUSSELS,SOME of ihe families of the first respectability,•vharo I had occasion to mention before, as being soiaxious so get over to the Continent in time to be-present at the opening of the campaign, were ae1 R-rnrsels on the eventful Saturday, pas is by nomeans improbable,) when the "Prussian bovseinca," Cajoe galloping into the tow>i. cuaiag tlmir horses, with their sabras tp' expeditate the’? flight;! think i:very likely that they, would lose nd time ia turn¬ing their faces agiin to their own bappj cuwnriy,and he glad to tsiix with the promiscuous throng.Sunday came, and tiie.lsattie about nine miies offbegan to roar. It was deVcrsbed by the inhabitantsof Brussels as one uninterrupted peal of thunder intheir ears for eight hours.“ Then great events were in the galo, >'* And each hour brought a varying tale.”Bat the fears of the inhabitants always nu^c theFrench succewfuh—tVhat then must they have fakwh«n the English baggage pasped tbrough Brussels;. and Crowded the road to Antwerp. Ko wonderthat the rumour was then believed that the Frenchbad gained a complete victory. Tire entire popula¬tion were how to P a satisfactory piece oi evidenceof no great attachment to the French. We arelost, we are lost, was the only cry to be heardamong the inhabitants. My friend resolved on flighton his lady’s account, and had the extraordinaryfortune to reach Mecbline, about 15 miles, unhurt.They got a place in the track boat on the canal;and being close to the road,, saw all its. horrors :’When horses fell, the waggon wheels crushed the19rider; baggage was thrown off, and carried awayby the peasants, to be cut open and plundered.Great sums cf money were in this way lost; andclothes arid other property spread over the fields.Ae English r ffieer. who had lost a foot, and wascarried on his servant’s back came and begged tolie taken into the boat. He was known to my friend,tifho, although the passengers, intent on self-preser¬vation opposed it, -by absolute force obtained hisadmission. At Mechline, they found it very diffi¬cult to obtain admission into a house; and the dif¬ficulty was increased when the people were told thatthe lady was ill. Most providentially they procur¬ed a carriage to Antwerp next day. On their arriv¬al there they heard an altercation between theircotichman and a woman on the top, whom he hadtaken up and would nnt let down fill Ae paid fefranc, l^ey found tbis"poor woman to be the wi¬dow, newly so made, of a soldier killed at Quafre£i>a* • and the mother of a child which she had theday Wore seen pushed to death by a waggonwheel i Many of the wounded were travelling theisame road, some had lost a hand or an arm; thou¬sands were on foQt; and all sorts of carriages andhorses crowded ihe road, and increased the danger.The scene was beyond description horrible: but afeeling of,terror and self-preservation much dimiiv-sked the concern for the sufferers —This is verycbmtnon in the horrors of w ar. The persons crush¬ed in the flight to Antwerp, were thrown into the(pitches. The confusion dreadful: yet no onehad seen a single Frenchman!What then must have been the feelings of the poorgardener at Hougcmont, at the time he was obligedto remain close prisoner in his garden, in the midstof the catnage, because, (as he candidiy avowed j,when the battle was begun he could not venture11otiit of it—cf the faraicr lAcaste, in his pinioaed sit¬uation besitle Buanaparte—tir, if I may venture soto speak, of the commandant of that nameless corpsof Gentlemen light-horse volunteers, when he re¬ceived the unwelcome hint from Lord Wellington’said-du-camp, that an opportunity occured for themto charge the French cavalry ; their colonel, in greatsurprise, objected the enemy’s strength —cuirasses,-and the consideration, which had dnacoountablj'jhe said, escaped the Co mander in chief, that hisregiment were all gentlemen!!,r This divertingresponse was carried back to Lord Wellington; whodispatched the messenger again to, say. that if ‘thegentlemen would take post uporf an eminence,which he pointed to in the rear, they would havean excellent view of the battle; and he would leavethe choice of a proper time to charge^ entirely totheir own sagacity and discretion, in which he "hadthe fullest confidence. The colonel actually thank¬ed the aid-du camp for this distinguished post ofhonor, and followed by his gallant train, with theirvery high plumes, (the present great point of con*tinental military foppery j, was out of danger in amoment.VISIT TO THE FIELD OF BATTLE.IN the course of the Monday, the news of thedefeat of the French arrive 1; and on the followingday my friend and his wife returned to Brussels.On the Wednesday he vidted the field of Waterloo.His account of i: is dreadful!—The first thing whichstruck him at a distance, was the quantity of capsand hats strewed on the ground. It appeared as ifthe field had been covered with crojvs When he12t'ame to t!i^ sp'ot, the sight was truly shocking: Atfirst there was a dreadful preponderance of Britishsfaiitj which looked very ill; but more is advance,the revenge made itself dreadfully marked, fort.en French la\ de;d for one, British. The fieldwas so much covered with blood, that it appearedes il it'had been completely flooded with it; deadhorses seemed innumerable;—-and the peasantry-V.nplnyed in burying the dead, generally stript thebnUies first Or course these people got a vastbooty, when they returned out of the neighbour¬ing wood, after the battle; many of them sotnehundred pounds. A great quantity of cap plates,cu'ras;es Ac. were taken by them and sold as relics.Vv e returned to the tree, and directed our stepswestward, to go along the British line to the right.There- was no, difficulty in tracing the line by thegraves of the brave men who had fallen where theywere first posted. The survivors never quitted it,itut to advance. The very ground wash-allowed;but it was trode by us with respect and gratitude';the multitude below, so laugly interred, occasioneda very impressive subject of reflection.No one, who has not seen it, can imagine howtouching it w'os to tee, strewed around their graves,fragments of what the brave men wore or carriedwhen they fell. Among the straw of the troddendown corn which still covered the field, lay caps,shoos, pit ces of uniforms and shirts, tufts, cockades,leathers, ornamental horse-hair red and black, andwiiat most struck us, great quantities ol letters, andleaves of books. The, latter were much too far de¬faced by rain and mud, to make it worth our whileto lilt any of them. In one letter, vve cud i justmake out the words, so affecting in their circum¬stances, “ My deffr hustmud. ’i'he-dvr.- the gpai'd maseil, atrdoverjWliich they was still, when #s passed it,covered with their ftpoil, ifud, marked wkh horsedkiet, carmitn whecfe, and the deeper furrows ofbut is and bombs, I’orrf rtriby fell he^eA thousand French dencl, atone, lap/ o»fhis'*po>;and even yet it exhibited holsters, (one we observ¬ed which had Wen filed with blood) standard hold¬ers, pieces ot bridles, straps, girths, &c. all denot¬ing a tremendous conflict of cavalry ; and thecaps of the grenadiers of the French guard, lay yetin considerable numbers, with rags of their uniforms.Some more affecting-remains were also there, piecesof tartan, and of black ostrich feathers : tire plaidsand plumes of Scotland.Arduous and painful, indeed, must have been thatstruggle, in which upwards of 200,00b men on bothsides, were engaged in the work of death for nineor ten hours.—We may vead’ly conceive what ahorrible thing it would be, to behold two column^of infantry charging one another in the greatestfury, with the bayonet, and occasionally pouringwell-directed vollies of musketry into each othersranks ; but such were the deadly visits of the can¬non awd cavalry on that dreadful day, that theauthor whom we have so largely quoted, was repeat¬edly assured by officers with whom he conversed,that these interludes of infantry battle were a kind ofrefreshment, after their toil with other amis, ftneed not then be wondered, that Marshal Ney, ir, hisletter to the Duke of Otranto, calls it a teiriblcbattle, and the most frightful carnage ever he hadwitnessed; and that it was said of the Duke of Wel¬lington, that often he had prayed in agony duringthe dreadful conflict, for the Prussians on the night.;.t horrific, as the spectacle of a field of battle14must be, when covered with the dyihg and the dead ;and the dreadful sufferings to which the actual com-batarrts are necessarily exposed; there are Otherpainful emotions—thefe are other evils attendant ona state of warfare, which humanity has cause to de¬plore. What, for instance, must'the neighbouringinhabitants feel, who r side hi a country immediate¬ly, adjoining the seat of war? ‘ How dread! ui ’’saysthe judicious Hall, “ to hold every thing at themercy of an enemy, and to receive life itself as aboon dependant on the sword ? How boundless thefears which such a situation must inspire, where theissues of life and death are determined by no knownlaws principles or customs and no cohje-ture canbe formed of our destiny except as far as it is dim¬ly decyphered in characters of blood, in the diclat®of revenge, and the r*prices of power. Conceivebut for a moment the consternation which the ap¬proaches of •n.invuding army would impress on thepeaceful villagers in this rfeighbourh'OOe. Whenyou have placed yourselves, fof an ins'ant, in thatsituation, you will learn to sympathise with thoseunhappy countries which have sustained the ravagesof arms. But how is it possible to give-you an ideaof these horrors?—Here you behold rich harvests,the bounty' of heaven and the reward of industry,consumed in a moment, or trampled under foot:while famine and pesrilehce follow the steps of(Icsolafion—'1 here the cottages of peasants givenup to the flagies; mothers expiring through fear,not for themselves, but their infants ; the inhabitantsflying with their helpless babes in all directions,miserable fugitives on their native soil!—In anotherpart vou witness opulent cities taken by storm ; thestretts, where no sounds were heard but those ofpeaceful mirth and contentment, filled on a suddenwiUi slaughter and bloodrresounding -with the cries15of the pursuing and the pursued.; the. palaces ofnobles demolished, the houses of the rick pillaged,the chastity of virgins .and of matrons violated ; andevery age, sex, and rank, mingled in promiscuous,massacre and ruin.-Description of the Battle of tVaterloo,By an Officer present.As we stood on our commanding spot, the krStthought was most naturally of the numbers of thecontending armies respectively. The British werestated by.Buonaparte himself, at 80,090 and cer¬tainly they have never been matfe out to have be&imore. Marshal Blucher estimates them at thesame number. Of these not more than 30,000were actually British; the rest were Germans, Bel-gi»»s, and Dutch. There were assuredly no corpsof Prussians in the battle before the eveningThe French army certainly were 130,000* mak-?ng the enormous balance in their favour of 50,000men ; and, be it never forgotten, all French, andthe best troops in France.In truth, the British army rvere a lajfe and ahalf from the nearest skirts of the word, and nev^er had one man within it; and so far from beingcrushed and overlaid, the masses, and of the Frenchguard too, were often routed by the bold dash ofan almost incredibly small -proportion of their num¬bers,—nay sometimes, as will afterwards be toldof the Highlanders and Scotch Greys, and it hap¬pened in many other parts of tire field besides,* According to the account ghen of the Port Folio,found in Buonaparte's carriage, hj passed the Frenchfrontier mith 110,000 men only.va-1.6by tlie ofxiearly insolated, iadivijual.lour.Buoftaparto knew Uie Ku«bcr of his alreadydevoted adversaries well; and, with his ritual pre^sumption, expressed great, astonishment to .?e•their undtsmayed front on that side of the h/. c't.Plis fpar was, tlrat they would escape iiiui ii tnl;night; and he caebumed on first seeing their or i :ef battle with the dawn—<: Ah! I hue them that,these English !5’The regular battle, if is well known, commen¬ced by the almost simultaneous advance (and wedistinctly saw their course) of three entire corpsd’armee on the right, left, and centre, of the Bri¬tish line. The attack on the right had for its fir*tobject the carrying of the post of Hougoumont, diekev of the position : in possession of which, theFrench could have turned the British right, Thatcolumn had shortest, wayv to move; and, underKing Jerome, it was there the cannon and mus¬ketry frst'bi nan.s he utmost success of probably 30,000 men was,'obliging tire light companies of the 1st and 3dfoot guards, under the command of Lord Saltoun,to take refuge within the post, instead of defend¬ing the email wood, on the outside of it. 1 hepost itself was never occupied by the enemy fora moment. The- guards kept, in spite, ot grape,and musketry, a id balls, and shells, and tlames;till they issued from it victorious in the hour ofvengeance.The corps d’armee destined for the left, (tlpeGth) soon arrived in the first attack in that quar¬ter about the centre of the British left wing; butwere calmly received and repulsed, by the admir¬ably served artillery, and by the 4*2J 79th andg2d Highlanders, supported, it is believed, by the17lit and 28th regiments, under the lamented SirThomas Pieton. The whole slope was in our view.Nothing could be more tremendous than the modeof attack; it was headed by artillery, which dis¬charged showers of iron grape- shot, each bulletlarger than a walnut. It was a battle, on the partof the French, of cavalry and cannon, both equip-ed as if by magic, and much more formidablethan had ever been known in the French armies,even to take the field.Heading these columns were the iron cased cuir*assiers, in as complete mail, breast and back as inthe days of that defensive armour, upon whichthfe musket balls were heard to ring as they glan¬ced oft, without injuring or even stunning the wear¬er. These men at arms bad immense infantrycolumns of support at their backs.A stunted hedge bounded each side of a narrowcross road, which ran along the whole of the Bri¬tish left vring, joining the great road near theDuke of Wellington’s tree, already mentioned.In the hedge there were a number of gaps, whichhad been made to serve as a kind of embrasures fora line of the British cannon of the left wing; anda trifling bank only here and there, two of threefeet high, on which the hedge grew, and in whichapertures for the guns were cut where necessary,was the only thing resembling shelter, which anyportion of our artillery enjoyedWhen the cannon and infantry had staggered themasses of the enemy, and somewhat calmed theirlury ; round the extremity of the cross road, fullon the flank of the foe—horse, in perfect condition;men, in steady determination—wheeled, like awhirlwind, the Royals Greys, and Enniskillens—England, Scotland, and Ireland, in high rivalryand irresistible1 union. In vain , for the second time*18the iron cases, their cannon was deserted and tak¬en ; and the columns of infantry were thrown intosuch confusion, that they had just time to get be¬yond the range of the prudent pursuit of their ad¬versaries, whose warfare was yet defensive. Thedragoons and infantry, with their captured cannonsand eagles, calmly returned to their place in posi¬tion, to await the next advance of the enemy.If our preset ground had the well-fought roundnow faintly described, in full view; so had Napol¬eon’s station, about a n.ile along the road fromwhere we stood, With the poor farmer feacostepinioned on horseback beside him, stood ri;e Em¬peror, unable to conceal his astonishment at therecoil, and almost flight, of his best troops; andconstrained in spite of himself, repeatedly to mut¬ter compliments to the spirit: rapidity, and steadi¬ness of the British cavalry;—“These British lightadmirably,” said he to Soult; “ but they must giveway.”—“ No, sir, they prefer beiag ditto pieces,’’was the answer of him who. knew something of them.The grey horses especially struck him, and he oftenrepeated, “ What tine troops!”The attacks now described, we are told, mightserve as a fair specimen of the reiterated war duringthe entire day. From eleven in the morning tillseven at night, it consisted of a succession of suchassaults, with unabated fury, and increasing num¬bers, and often w ith a boldness and deadly effect,which perplexed our soldiers, and put their niatci;-less firmnees to the utmost triaf. It may be believ¬ed that every fresh onset swept away multitudesof our infantry ; still the survivors gave not an inchof ground, but made good the lines, and firm thesquares No men in Europe could ha»’e enduredmore than they did—Again and again the enemy’scannon rebounded from their adamantine front, c!i$-19mayed and scattered. These were the breathingtimes of our heroes! Line was with admirable ala¬crity f rmed for a greater breadth of fire than thesquares afforded, immediately on seeing the backplates of the cuirasses . when masses of French in¬fantry approached with a heavy fire of musketry,They did ‘ go through their work,1 as Napoleonoften muttered, ‘ unlike any troops he had ever seen.’Such were the dreadful visits of.cannon and cavalry,that, as I have been assured, these interludes ofInfantry battles were a kind of refreshment, aftertheir toil with other arms.—They never took thetrouble to look at the numbers; they felt as if boys% had attacked them, merely to keep them in wind ;and invariably routed the columns by a very fewsteps in advance with pointed bayonet'.The Duke, in visiting different points was oftendeceived with a shout of impatience to be led on.The gallant 95th were very tired of the iron cases,and the iron grape shot. An immense body ofFrench infantty happened to approach that nobleregiment at one time when the commander was pay¬ing.them a visit; “ Let us at.’em, my Lord,’’ letus down upon ’em ’’ quite regardless of their num¬bers. “ Not yet.” replied the chief, “ not yet mybrave men, but you shall have at them soon ;|iirma liitle.longer; we must not be beat; vviiat wouldthey say in EnglandFrom our advantage ground we had gained a verysatisfactory general idea of the field, and beforeGetting out on a circuit of more minute inspection,went down to the farm house of La-Haye Saint, toexamine the state in which the conflict had left thatpost. Much of the wreck of the battle lay betweenthe Duke of Wellington's station and the. farm¬house, which manifested the hazard to which-helui.J been exposed. It is just an ordinary farm hou e/20and court of officee: The house forms one side ofa square and the offices the other three; the courtyard, collecting the manure in the middle, and shel ¬tering the cattle.. The side opposite to the houseis a long building for cows; the passage being scp.arated from the cow’s stalls by a parapet abovefour feet high. At each end of the passage is alarge door or gate, both of which were literallyriddled with musket balls, fired from within, andfrom without, as could easily be distinguished fromthe kind of hole the ball had made. Tire bodies,after the action, were heaped up in the cow’s stalls,as high as th6 parapet. The whole farm house,yard, and offices, might have afforded room for1000 or 1500 men to act. They had made holesfor musketry all around the building; and many ahole had been made for them by the enemy. Thewhole presented a scene of shattered ruin, whichcould ftof be looked upon without a degree of in¬terest amounting to terror. It stood a noble monu¬ment of the determined valour of our Germanbrethren in arms. -Some very poor children who seemed to starveabout the ruins soon joined us, and began to begmoney from us with most persevering importunity.Their miserable appeeranee was in perfect agree-mfent with the scene of desolation about them. Wesaw no grown people who seem’d to have airy in¬terest in the place.Having succeded in opening the shattered doorwhich led out to the fields to the west, we saw sev¬eral women still engaged in the lately most lucrativeoccupation of gleaning up any thing which theycould sell to strangers. The same persons had, veryprobably, been active in stripping and plunderingthe slain. We asked them where they were duringhe a-tion?—“ Ail in the wood.”—Did they hoar*the notee?—The atif-wer wafe a shrug aft-l look ofdreadful recftllcction. They seemed to be findingvery little worth taking up. We ivere ourselves,tit the moment, more forfunate, for. among somfestraw, and plainly marked with blood, we found aFrench bayonet, which we brought away with us.If the unknowm dead called forth these feelings,much more did the consciousness of standing onthe spot, where some one, known to us, had“ nobly fought and nobly died ” We stood wherethen interesting Sir William de Lancey met hfsdeath, when rallying, with great spirit and effect, abattalion of Hanoverians, which had goi into con¬fusion. He nobly refused to occupy the time ofthe surgeons with his wound, which he had heardthem pronounce mortal, when they thought him in¬sensible. He was removed to the village of Water¬loo, where he died. That gallant young man’searly name, and just favour with his great com¬mander, excited general and deep regret for hisfate; and no where more than in Edinburgh, wherehe had been married only a few weeks before.Indeed the instances of heroic death rtere as num¬erous as they were affecting. Colonel Miller ofth« first Guards requested a last sight of the coloursunder which he had fought. He kissed them fer-wently, and begged they might be waved over himtill he expiredThe lamented Captain Curson, Lprd Scarsdale’sson, met his fate with almost “ military glee.” Infalling from his horse, he called out gaily to LordMarch, who was riding with him at a gallop—“ Good b’ye, dear March.” And by one effortmore, when his friend had left him for the urgentduty of animating a foreign corps, in vfery criticalcircumstances, he looked up, and cried, “ Well done,dear March.”22’fhe aftiidtfng idea strongly Occurred, of the nextday’s horrors of such a field as Waterloo. Num¬bers of the desperately wounded and dying, in themidst of the dead, raised their heads, when visitorsto the scene passed them, to implore water, or tobeg at their hands to end their agonies. Many ofthe wounded were not removed till Wednesday,the third day after the battle.The 12th light dragoons was posted near thePrince of Orange. Their charges were ot the mostspirited kind; and nothing but the cuirasses enabledthe French dragoons to resist them. In the accountof so much pure valour without trick or cover, a-gainst so much ifon, it is not difficult, to decide wherehonour would award the balance. Many brave menwere sacrificed to the iron cases, and taffeta flagswhich frightened their horses. A. gallant youngfriend of mine own, Mr Elliot Lockhart, eldest senof the member for Selkirkshire, lay near the spotwe had now reached. He had just joined the 12thdragoons, and in the first charge of h;s regiment,in which he bore a very distinguished part, receiv¬ed a wound which was instantly fatal. There wasa melancholy satisfaction in beholding the spot ofhis honorable grave ; a prouder sepulchre the turfon which the soldier falls, than the proudest mau¬soleum on consecrated groundNo part of the field w as more fertile in impres¬sive associatipns, than the ground of the 30th and73d regimentx, brigaded under our gallant coun¬tryman, severely wounded in the battle, Sir ColinHalket. .1 had already heard much of the firmnessof these brave troops'; and was to hear still more.To no square did the artillery, and particularly thecuirassiers, pay mdre frequent and tremendous vi¬sits ; and never was it shaken for a moment. Thealmost intiuuwy of the- soldiers wdij? toese death-23bringing visitants, increased so much as the dayadvanced, that they began to recognise their bices.Their boldness much provoked our men. Theygalloped up’to the bayonet points, where of coursetheir horses made a full stop, to the great dangerof pitching their riders into the square. They thenrode round anc round the fearless bulwark of bayo¬nets ; and in all the confidence of panoply, oftencooly walked their horses, to have more, time tosearch for some chasm in the ranks, where theymight ride in. The balls absolutely rung upontheir mail; and nothing incommoded the rider,except bringing down his,horse, which at last be¬came the general order. In that event he sur¬rendered himself, and was received within thesquare, till he could be sent prisoner to the rear;—a generosity ill-merited, when it is considered thatthe French spared very few lives, which it was intheir powrer to take. Many officers were murdered,after giving up their swords ; and when prisonerswere collected, cavalry were sent to cut them down,when circumstances at the moment prevented theirremoval! A young officer of the Greys, well knownto the author was shot by a Fronch officer whoselife he had preserved. The object of the French-■aan was to make his escape. He did not effocthis purpose ; being overtaken and cut to pieces bythe enraged soldiers.Visit to the Fxexich hospitals.Beyond the citadel is the Corderie, a buildingconstructed by Buonaparte, as a rope-work, 1300feet long, to give space for a cable of a first-rateship of war. It was fitted up as the hospital of a-bout 1500 offfiis wounded soldiers, prisoners ofwar.2iThe whale immense length cf this place wasopen, and the beds were arranged in four rows,from end to end. We walked generally unnoticedby thenr occupiers, up and down the lanes between;i. and equally disregarded, frequently slept over abed, or paraed between two, when going from onepassage to another It was impossible to imagine-two aspects of human lot more strikingly contrast¬ed, yec more forcibly associated, than the spectaclewhich these Unfortunate enthusiasts presented now,and their confidence and fury bnt yesterday; theirSubmissive tranquillity in their flannel gowns andcaps in the hospital, a«d their noise and cuirassesin the field.Death was at work here, more manifestly thanwe had observed among the English wounded. Oneman was pointed out who h«d tossed his amputat¬ed arm in the air, with a feeble shout of “ m-e1’ Emperuer.” Another, at the moment of the pre¬parations to take off his leg, declared that therewas something he knew of that would cure him onthe spot, and save his limb and the op^jratorstrouble. When asked to explain this strange re¬mark, he said *'a sight of the Emperor l” Theindispensible amputation did not save him. he diedin the surgeon’s hands ; and hiS last words, sted-fastly looking on his own blood, were, that liewould cheerfully shed the last drop in his veins forthe great Napoleon ! A singularly wild, and almostpoetic, fangy, was the form in which a third borehis testimony ; he was- undergoing, with greatsteadiness, the operation of the extraction of a ballfrom hjs side, and it happened to be the left; inthe moment of his greatest suffering, he exclaimed, 1‘‘ an inch deeper, and you’ll find the Emperor.”FINIS.