SPIRITUAL ExerciseO FSOUL,AND:BldTed Departuret pame Mary Rutherford Lady. ' Hundaly, and Mary M‘Konnel,» Coufin to the laid Lady ; which fel-1jj out in the Year 1^40 j both died in1 London. -Arictcn by Mr. ARcufreALD PonrEOUs, a youngMan, who attended the faiiLL'idy from StotlanA0 London- Never before .primed.(al. xxx. Verfe 7. Thou didjl hide thy Face) and I wastroidiled..ev. xiv. Verle 15. Write, Qfefftd are the dead whichdie in the lordyea, faith the Spirit, that they mayeft from their Labours, and their Works do fotfezv them.•LntreJ in Stationers-HaH,' according to Order.EDINBURGH,?iinted. by R. Drummond ki Swan-Chfe, for Wit-11 am Gray Book-binder without the Weft-Pert,. Sold by him, and by Alexander,the End of die Caltoun.Advertifement.HT' HAT thde Exerciles were tran- j*■* leribed from the Original Copy[wrote by Mr. Archibald Torteous]by Mr. John Breadfoot, Minifter of theGolpel in 'Petineen, in the Shire ofClydfdale, in Ottober 1699.Never before printed.E 3 1Whe Spiritual Exercife ^Soul, and blef-I fed Departure of Dame Mary Ruther-i ford Lady Hundaly, and Mary M‘kcn-i nel, Coufin to the faid Lady \ which; fell out in the Tear 1640 .* Both diedin London.H E Church thefe two Godly Womenwent to in London for religious Wor-fhip on the Sabbath-day, was Black-friers, beeaufe the ordinary Preacherthere, Dodtor Gouge, yielded to fewerCorruptions in the Lord's Worfhip,than other Preachers in the City then!did. Theie Women came not to Church, till the Ser¬vice was ended and over, and lb were difappointed off Sear, judging it better to pleale their Lord, tho’with Uneafc to their Bodies, than to do otherwilewith wronging their Confciences; well knowing, thatuplcaling Cnrilt and our felves cannot often be enjoyed:ogether : And indeed there is no Comparifon here*lilet worldly Men, who do not know Chi ill’s Worth,•think what they will.1 Becaufe it plealbd the Lord to call firft on Mary Mac-konnel, I fhall firft Ipeak briefly of her : She retir¬ing alone to a Chamber to read the Bible and me¬ditate thereon, and entertain Communion with Chriftiher Lord by Prayer, as her daily Cuftom was, aftera long flaying in the Chambrr, Ihe came out to theLady Uundaly, who asked her, where (he had been folong ? Majry replied. No Wonder, I could not comeout fooner; fori never had (iich Communion and Fel-lowfhip with my Lord (nice I knew him, as I had inthat Chamber this Day; I (peak to his Name’s Glory:He let out his Sweetnels fo to me, and in fuch a Mea-Cire, and I was fo broudenen him, that I could notA 2 get14] mget him left; appearingly, He has fome unexpe£]eJThing to try ft me with." This being Tuefday, on IFed-Jtiefday Morning, Mary, ere fhc arofe from Bed, thoughtfhe heard a great Mourning, and faw, as (he appre-,hended, the Lady all in white at the Bed-focr : Bufprefently afterwards, perceiving the Ladyjro beBed, Mary began to fear, that fome fad Thing was -befalthe Lady; and coming (after arraying herlelf^to me the Writer hereof; fhe (aid, Alas! Mr. Archi¬bald, the Lady is gone now : For I faw and heart"inch Things as difcouraged me much.I then defired her to fliew what fhc told me, to^the Lady calmly; which when Mary had done, the1Lady faid. It prefagesmy Death : Mary anfwered, Itrather pr^fages mine, feeing my Lord and I had fbfwcet a Meeting Yefterday. Then I heard them fayto each other, Well is my Soul, I fhall get my LoveChrift now ( ftriving, as it were, who fhould havehim firft). Then faid I, Madam, I could never en¬dure Strife, but I am glad to fee fuch a Strife as thisis for Chrift; Why may not I, as a third Perfbn, chal¬lenge my Part in die Bargain ? I hope, ye dare notenvy any who come to Chrift. Said the Lady, Mr.Archibald, well were my Soul, if all the World cometo him ; but, at prefent, I will be fbrry, if the Lotfall not on my felf. Said I, Tho’ Mary or I go firft,yet enough of Chrift remains to you ; He is not part¬ed, but every particular Soul gets all Chrift, who isrot impaired by another’s having him : Chrift, whois the Son of Righteoufnefs, is like the Sun in the Fir¬mament, communicating its Light to many, and yet.net impaired or leftcned in its Glor^ and Splendor ;Jeach particular Perfon enjoys all the Light of the Sun,and yet leaves it wholly to another.The Night following, Mary finding great Heat andLightnefs in her Head, faid, Madam, the Debate isnow out of Queftion ; you may fee, what I told youprefaged my Death ; and fo her Fever increafed,yet neither the Lady, or I, nor Mary herfelf expedtedher Death fo fbon : For, the third Day after this, Sa¬turday, which was her Marriage-day with her Lord,fhe, tho’ lick, was very diftindl and fenflble, her Dif-eourfc,;Icourfc all thele three Days running out fweetly in com¬mending Chrift’s Love ; and, among other ExpidTi-ons, faid, O ! that I might live to fee the Sc oitifi Kirk’sDelivery ; I would defire only to live a Year after ; toj fing Praifes t© him, whofe right Hand has done va¬liantly, &C. Thus fhe peaceably entred the everlalt-ing Kingdom.The next Day after Mary M’KonneVs Death, theLady was mightily caft down and difcouraged. Thenfaid I, Madam, where is your driving for Chriltnow’, and your Courage to the Battle ? If ye, an oldSoldier under Chrift’s Banner be fo fad, ye will dif-courage me a young Stripljng, and make me think yeare forty to part with the World, and that ye areafraid left this Vifitation (for the Peftilcnce was thenin London) take you aavay to Chrift with whom yefo earneftly longed to be lately. Said fhe, Mr. Atcki-bald, little Realon have I to be unwilling to part withthis World, wherein I have had my own Trials. SaidI, Madam, ye fhould know this undoubted Truth,that, tho’ God’s Children be freed from Sin’s Tyranny,yet during this mortal Life, inbred Corruption lodwells and remains in us, that your loving Lord isfain by Affli&ions to exercife and humble his ownChildren, for purging away the Drofs of Corruption;fo as their Life is nothing elfe but a wearifome Pil-frimage : Yet for all this they ought not to faint nore difcouraged, feeing they fhall find Comfort in theEnd. No Man is crowned unlcfs he drive as he ought,for tho’ ye had never fo many Enemies and Difcontentsin this World, yet one Glimpfe of that Glory willmake you to forget all your Griefs, as Paul fays,Rom. viii. iS. Said fhe, I have nor only inbred Cor¬ruption to wreftle with, but alfo Satan’s Temptations,wnich makes me to defire to be diffolved, and indeedI defire this, not for Fear of any Crofs that can befalme in the World, but only that I may be freed fromthir finful Bands, and this corruptible Burden ofSin that prefleth down my Soul. Death is a mean tofree me who'ly from Sin’s Slavery and Bondaee, andto bring me to the manifeft and glorious Sight of God,and to the immediate Fruition of his Face; and inthithij refpeft 1 think Death might be defireJ, withSubmiflion. But ((aid I) Madam, Why are ye focaft down in your Countenance ? Where is yourdriving for Chrift ye had a few Days pad ? Said fhe,Mr. Archibald, Aias! there is a great Diiference be¬tween Market-days; then I had in (bme Meafure myLord’s Prefence, and the Senfe of his Love, but nowhe has left me and is gone. How then can I not bedifcouraged, feeing I want his Prefence, which onlycan comfort a poor Soul who once has had it ? Howcan I rejoice or be content till he return, in whofcPrefence is Fullnefs of Joy, and at his right HandPleafures for evermore ? Said I, Madam, as yourLord’s Love has many comfortable Properties attri¬buted to it, being a free, frefh, matchlefs Love; foit is a Property of no fmall Comfort to you, thatyour Lord’s Love is a conftant Love ; he never whollycads od thofe whom he once takes by the Hand; tho’he may for a Time draw a Vail betwixt him and us,to try our Love to him, as an affeftionate Motherhides herfelf from her Child to make him the morebrouden on her; fo your Lord will come skipping everthe Mountains, and leaping over the Hills ; nothing (hallhinder him from you; tho’ your Sins were as hardRocks, and as high as Mountains in his Way, yetneither the Hardnefs of the one, nor the Height of theether fhall keep him from you; he would as fain beat you, as ye would be at him, and fainer too ; takeCourage, He that padl come, 'will come, and will notSaid fhe, A fecond Thing troubles me, I -am de¬ceived in my Accefs to God ; for before Mary’s Death,I beg’d her Life, and fietding fuch Accefs and Free¬dom in feeking it, I held it as granted, that Chriflhad given m? my Suirr But feeing the contrary fol-lowsj have I not Caufe to be difcouraged ? I beingthen deceived of this Freedom, it makes me think Iam but a Hypocrite, and that the Freedom I had atother Times has been only falfe Conceptions of Joy.Then prefently I apprehending her to be in Troubleof Mind, and nor daring to aofwer her till I hadfought Wifdom and Strength from my Lord, and be-.• ingC 7 IIng con (clous of my own Weaknefi, efpecially toquiet fuch a Storm as I faw was ariiing, there beingno Storm fo great as the Storm of a troubled Mind,and not any Storm requiring fuch Wifdom to calm it;I faid to her. Madam, I lee the Dart that woundsyou: Is it not apprehended Wrath or DefertionlSaid Ihe, Delertion is indeed my wounding Dart,Lord make you an Inftrument to cure it. Said I, Ounworthy, weak and foolifh Inftrument! Yet, if myLord will give me his Spirit, then will I boldly ad¬venture to be the Inftrument; for then I am fure bothof Strength and Wifdom. But, feeing it is a hardand difficult Work to cure a troubled Soul, Satan op-pofing it with all his Might (for he would alwayshave you looking to Senle, or elfe he would makeyou believe there is^jao Mercy for you) and feeingSatan’s Policy is fo great that none can rebuke thefeStorms and Waves, nor fay to them^ Peace, and ly fiilJ,that a great Calm may follow, but our Lord J efuswhom the Sea and Winds obey ; let me firft pray, andthen ye, as God lhall help : So, after I had prayed, Idefired her ( who now was Bed-faft) to pray. SaidIhe, I cannot, I dare not pray ; no Accefs can I getto my Lord by Prayer. Said I, Madam, I did hearyou earndft at Prayer this laft Night. No (laid /he )it was only filly, weak Ejaculations. Said I, if yecannot pray, yet pray that ye may be helped to pray,put up Ejaculations for the Spirit of Prayer, and thenpray, and if after that ye find ye cannot pray, yetthefe Ejaculations will di/appoint Satan, for Satandefires no better, nor that ye never put up one Eja-culaton to Chrift till the Day of your Death : Satanknows that Prayer can overcome all Things, yea, can.prevail with God, Exod. xxxii. 10. Ifa. xlv. xi.How that which can prevail with God,, can prevail a-gainji and overcome Satan alfo: Therefore, give yetthis Advantage to the Devil, but put up Prayer often;otherwifc, if ye bide long away, bew’are left this be¬get a Fremmednefs or Eftringement betwixt yourLord and you.To her next Trouble I anfwered, Madam, ye fayy« are deceived in your Accefs to God, and therebyY'j-c perceive ye are a Hypocrite, and that alt your,iormer Freedom in Prayer has been only falfe Con¬ceptions of Joy : I will not (peak a Word of Comfortany more unto you, unlefs ye put up this fliort Peti¬tion, lorrf, hold Satan off me, and give me not leave todoubt of thy Love, or to believe any Thing that comes•ut of Satan's Mouth : W hich fhe faid heartily.Then faid I, By queftioning your Accefs, ijl, Yegreatly difbonour God. Said fhe, God forbid. Said1, Madam ye difhonour God,becaufe ye raze the veryFoundation which Gpd’s own Hands nave laid, whenye call in Queftion all his Love-Tokens he has givenyou informer Times. 2dly. Think not ye are deceivedin your Accefs, becaufe ye caonot have yourDelire fa-tished to the full, in having the fame Tiling grantedwhich ye fought from God : For fbme times Chriftgives us not that which we feek, and yet he knowsour Prayers, by giving us a better Thing, or by giv-ino us Patience to endure the Want ofthe fume Thing. ISo was Chrift himfelf dealt with, who defired the ICup might depart from him ; yet it did not depart, but fhe fulfered and drank it,the Father giving his Strength: IAnd he was heard in that he feared. Ye fee then that IGod’s deareft Children may have Accefs to him for fe- iveral Things, tho’ they get not their particular Peti- Ition granted ; and yet their Accefs to God and Free- 1dom in Prayer, will be true Accefs and Freedom, gd/y. 1In fo thinking ye wrong your felf, rendring yourfelf junfit to pray, or to do any holy Duty : Alfo by |queftioning your Accefs, ye lay your Heart open un- jto manifold Temptations; fo that if ye be holden out Iof Heaven, ye hold out your felf, God will not hold fyou out. Therefore in God’s Name find Fault with Iyour felf, and fay, Lord, this is my Infirmity and 11Weaknefs,pardon me forChrift’s Sake, frhly. By q uefti- j \oning of your Accefs ye give Advantage to Satan, for 11;if once he perceive that ye take all to you for Truth tthat he fays, then ye may look for Armies of Temp- | (lrations, and Multitudes of Objections, as a Shower ofArrows, to b* lent againft you. If ye mind to have >[an Intereft in Comfort, ye muft refolve not to credit j j[Satan nor your own deceitful Heart; believe God only , j[ 9 ]ijfpeaking to you in the Promifes of his Wort! : The -ibevil is a cruel and crafty hnemy, who mecring witha Soul that feels not Sin at allj flattered the Man withfalfe Hopes, that all will be well enough, and that hewill get Mercy, tho’the Man have no Right to it;But Satan, meeting with a Sinner troubled in Con-|cience,and feeling Sin,and God’s Wrath hanging over•pis Headjtheiefore, Satan tells this Man a quite con-trar Tale, That there is no Hope of Mercy for him,the Time or Day of Mercy is over and gone, God willmot be gracious, his Sin is unpardonable, the Day ofGrace is part, it is vain to (eek for Mercy; that fo,jifpoffible, Satan maydrawthe Man to Defpair. Thereifore, Madam, ifye would expeft any Good or Comfort; lat thisTime, you muft flop your Ears againft Satan, ye; |muft believe nothing that either he or your owntreacherous Heart lays. Do not conclude thus, I havejqno Imereft in Comfort, bccaufe I think 1 have none;||God’s Thoughts are not your Thoughts.I Some Days after, I, coming to her Bcd-fide in thoilMorning, asked her what Reft flic had gotten in Bo-^dy or Mind. Said fhe, Better'Reft than 1 am worthy|of: But this Night I have been troubled withilDreams, and cruel Satan’s Temptations. Said I, Ma-sdam, we moft all confefs we deferve Hell : But what-|ever we deferve, yet there is Perfe&ion enough inijlour Lord Jefus; Build ye on that Foundation ; for»ye have Ground enough to build upon. But (faid fhe)we muft have Iripuments to build withal, or elfewe will come fhort in the Work. Said I, Chrift theMaftcr-builder will furhifh us with Store of fuch as wewant, and are necelfar : Then, after I had read femePaflages of the Bible, I laid, What think ye oPchefe?Said fhe, Indeed they are fweer Promifes to whomthey belong, but they make rather againft me. I per¬ceiving that fbc applied the Threatnings,and rejectedrbePromifesof Mercy,asked,whether fhe doubted of theof the Lord’s Power or Love ? Said fhe, Love is m/Doubt, O for that Love to come to me again/ O fopaLove look 1 Said I, Can ye love and long for ChnU^and yet he not love and long for you? Be afluredChrift will Dot be behind with you, he will give yo«B t-wO'tU’o Looks for ont. Zaccheus defined but a far ofF'LoofeofChrift, but Chrift came and preached the Gofpelto?him and his Houfe,Luke xix. 4. S^c. Zaccheus, I mujlabide at thy Houfe.- Said (he, No Love for me, but.Terror and Wrath, my Backfliding being fb great andgrievous.Said I, Compare your Sins with Chrift’s Love,the Stock whereof is in GhrifhCan your Sins,howevermany and hainous,be equalled with his infinite Mercy,;th^t furpa/Ics all Mens Sins. Rom. v. 210, If you be notpardoned, blame your felf: It is becaufe ye will not'!fcek Pardon: Rouft up then your fainting Heart,and think ye have to do with an infinitely merciful iFather, and tender-hearted Lord,who delires not your |Ruin ; but is ten thoufandTimes more willing to giveyou a Pardon, nor yC' are to ask and receive ir^ Donot lb great an Injury to the gracious Lord, as to fetLimits and Bounds to his Love and Kindnefs. Whatlay y<v now. Madam ? Said fhe, I know all that'strue : But what is that to me 1 None find and ob¬tain but they that ask and feek; feeing then I cannotget Accel’s to God by Prayer, how fhall I get hisLove ? Said -I, Tho’ ye get no Accel’s, yet be impor- :nmate, Importunity will prevail,. Luke xviii. 1. &V.-Tho’ye get no Anfwer,yer weary not, hut ftill threapKindnefs on him till the dawning of the Day, as y.t-;ccb did, and ye ftiall obtain the Blelfing: If your 1;Soul be vexed with new Fears and Doubts, again sconfirm the Matter with new Prayers, and refolve if fye be damned, to be damned praying,as ye have often ] tlaid tome : And if ye muft needs perilh, perilh f.with Prayer in your Mouth, and then ye lhall not Sperilli. ISaid fhe, Alas l ye know not my Fears and Doubts. fSaid I, Madam, I intreat you let me know them ; forfeeing it hath pleafed God to make me, and me onlyan Inftrumentof Comfort to you ; how can I be in- ;ftrumental in your Comfort, unlefs ye let roe know fvour Grief? How can I apply a Plaifter till I fee the fSore of your Wound ?Said Ihe, Seeing it has pleafed God to call you tobe with me, I will communicate my many Mala-diesy .dies and Wound* of Soul to you, winch I may doM with a forrowful Heart. Said I, I am heartily con-»|j tent ofit : O! if the Lord would lb honour andtl make me that happy, as to be an Inftrument of oneS3! Dram of Comfort to you ! Let me tell you, Lady,i this at prefect, there is no Temptation fo foul orif hidious that leizes on you but it has befallen others ofO God’s Children, as David, Heman, MamJJeh, whoi li had theirFauits and Fears, and yet they are pardoned,iij Said fhe. My Cale is another than theirs was. Said I,I befeech you, let me lee any Doubt or Fear ye havev whereof 1 cannot (hew you the like in fbme of God’s.U| Children, fo your Cale is not matchlefi.I Alas (faid fhe) fince'the Time I thought mydelfh| effeftually called and converted, I have rulhed againif into divers grievous Sins and fearful Thoughts, andI that willingly..-and deliberately: What then lhall IIdo ? Seeing I was a Hypocrite, and not pardoned.Said I, Madam, That is faUe, that he wholins af-•ter his Converfion is a Hypocrite, and not pardoned .•This was David’s Cafe ; did he not fin in the veryl ame way, as ye have faid ? And yet I hope ye willnot lay that David was a Hypocrite : Have ye anymore to fay ?More (faid Ihe) I will never be able to reckon uplif what I have to lay more : However, with Sorrow, IM lay, that I have long made Defedlion from the Cove¬nant of Grace, I have revolted and apoftatifed froml God’s Way, I have run, I know not,in how many By¬ways, even fince I lound lome Good working in myi Soul ; and after I had withForwardnefs,and for a long: Space continued walking in the Paths of Holinefs, Ihave again broken outand continued a long Time inmy Wandrings, without any Care to return to God ;and therefore I am afraid my Cale is delperate.Said I, Madam, Has not the Lord prom ifed to healj Ifrael's Backllidings ? And have not ye longed to re¬turn, fince your Backllidings? Said Ihe, 1 have had■ feme Kind of Longing, but not luch as I Ihould havehad.Said I, I fee ye would be at Perfe&ion : Bewarcof that, indeed it is good to aim at no lefj than PerfcfU-ft&ion ; but to ieek it in your {elf, and if ye gefitnot, to be caft down, beware of ihat: Ye have hadfomc Kind of Longing to come heme again, when yc 1Lave been like a wanuring Sheep, bleeting to be at :the Sheepfold: Now ChriiMay', I came lo feek and *jWjt that ‘which' is loji : He \yili bring you home onhis own Shoulders,and will rejoyce in you more nor :in others that w ere not loll, Luke xv. 4, 5. 7. Allureyour felf that the Prom if es made to baeklliding ifraelbelong to you: I ind ye an aking and relenting ofHeart for your Appoftacy ? Are ye longing to comeback to God ? Are yc willing to crave Pardon foryour former Declinings; then allure your felf ye didnot wholly fall away. : For Chriff’s Light is a con- ,If ant Light, it never wholly goes out where it is once 1,kindled : It is true, it may have its own Ebbings andFlowings; but when it declines, it will come to a-gain: Tho’ it feem dead, yet there is a little Kindling fin it, which the Spirit oftjod will fbon blow up a- 'gain. Seeing then the Lord is fecking and calling youhome again, beware to lit his Call: For he willmake you anfwer, and give an Account for yourRefufal. Next, to that your fo terrible Obje&ion of 1Backfliding, let the Prophet Jeremiah's Anfwer fatif-fy you : For, to Ifrael that had played the Harlot Jwith many Lovers, yer. iii. I. The Lord fays,12. Ver. Return, O backjliding ifrael, and I will not cauftmine Anger to fall on you* for I am merciful, faith theLord, I mill not keep Anger for evor. Ver. 14. Turn, &c. | *'I am married to you. So whatever hath been your A- |poftacy, acknowledge it and return, here is a Promifeof Acceptance.At another Time, I coming to her, after fome .Crones fhe was obferved to have in her Sleep, fhe faid* pI have been troubled and maftered by my Cor- 'ruptions this Night.Said I, Complain to Jefus your Captain-general:Tell him that ye cannot be quit of your Corruptionsand Satan’s Temptations; and he will hold up hisBanner,which will be a Scar- crow to terrify your Soul’sEnemy.Said flie,.How can I ever look Chriftin the Face,wha-ij/ho has been lb loving to me, while I have been lblinthankful to him, andfogreat a Backflider from him?Ijnd yet I had no Sorrow>Grief nor Repentance there-ijbre. Said I, Coniider what Repentance is: Itcon-|fts in Sorrow for Sin, Confelfion of it to God, ear-jijjell Calling on him in ChriB’s Name for Pardon, andj:|« a Refblutron to amend in all Time coming : Havej |e performed thefe four ?fl No indeed, faid flie. Said I, Have ye endeavou-led to perform them ? Said Ihe, I have had an En-, eavour; but what Matter of that? Said I, LordIjorbid there were no Matter of it, and that God ac-reptedof nothing but the Deed: Alfure your felflod accepts of our Endeavours, yea, of our weakeltindeavours: Remember ye not Mr. David Dickfon’si> aying ? God accepts the Will and Endeavour for the| cry A cl it felf. Tho' thou cannot fay thou lovefi Chrifi, yetvould thou fain Jove him ? would thou fain havei 'torro-zv, Grace or a broken Heart ? Chrijl accepts ofhat for Love, Sorrow, Grace or a broken Heart.Said Ihe,It is true indeed,that a fmall Endeavour wille accepted, if it be fincere and true ; But how lhall I:now a true Endeavour and Delire from a falfe? Said, Try the Objedl and End of your Delire, if both bethrift, or fomething elfe. The End of a true Delircs Chrift ; nothing willlatisfy your Defire but the En~oyment of him. Give a hungry Man never lb muchJold, it will not fatisfy him, if he get not Bread ; lblothing will fatisfy your Dciire, if true, but thatvhich ye defired ; and, lam fare, this holds true inrou ; for tho’ you Ihould get all the World, it wouldlot fatisfy you, except you get Chrifi Said flie, Ila re not deny but I have a Defire, but it is not enough,deli re him not fo much, nor crave him fo earnctllvs I Ihould. Said I, Will ye never leave off theleVords, Enough and Should ? This fmells of a Perfec-ion thit ye arefeeking in yourfelf. Ye faid before, YeHanged not fa much for^Chrift as ye (hould : I fay, Onlycknowledge to Chrift your. Defire, and fry, Iannot get enough of Defire to thee, and he will givet to you: Ye have nothing asyedhould : Look through.11 the Bible, and fee if ever God find, That he thatC per-performed not thelcDuties ashefliould,(halInot be ac¬cepted. I believe ye will not find it in all the Scriptures ; ^it is only one of your own Heart’s falfe Devices, and 1* Suggeftion of treacherous Satan ; believe it not, but *ask Pardon of God for fuch a Thought, and pray him ato give you Sincerity of Defire, tho’ ye get it not in f1that Meafure ye fliould have it. Said She, I can- 1not ask Pardon earneftly and heartily, nor can I pray lin Life and Power. What fhall I do then ? Said I,Madam, I heard your Ladyihip fay, that ye delired | “Chrift more than Heaven and Salvation itftlf, and I ■ 1hope, ere long, to hear you iay the fame. Tell me *truly, had you not rather have your Sin pardoned,,and your Soul faved, nor to have your Life prolong- • *ed at this Time, and great Riches, and all theWorld’s ^Contentments? Said ihe, That is nothing; who would | *not rather have the firft rather than the laft ? Said I,Worldlings,as theG/td«rew,had rather have theirSwine ^fept alive, than Chrift among them ; they had ra-| 1ther want Chrift than part with a little of their Rich- >es or Pleafure; and therefore they who defire the con- ^trary defirc fincerely.But (faid flhe) I want the laft Part of Repentance,the Perfeftion of all its other Parts. I do not amend,but do ftill flip into the fame Sins, and cannot leave Jthem. Said I, What be thefe Sins ye cannot leave, A- 1dulEcry,or Murder, or Blafphemy ? &V. No; (ftid flic) *I may go to Hell, and be free of all thefe; but I find 11Dulnefs, Deadnefs, Coldnefs in Prayer, Di ft raft ion, l-Forgetfulnefs, and Wandring ofHeart in Hearing, llunruly Pafflon, and a Number of fuch Evils break¬ing out in me. Said I, Does not the Lord lovingly 11pais by fuch Weaknefles in his own Children ? He re- 1members we are but Duft, and therefore, as a Father !C'pitieth his Children, fo he pities them that fear him,13, 14. If this were a good Argument to ■;prove that a Man’s Sins are not pardoned ; becaufehe finds his Corruptions bullering up in him, then Enone in the World fhould have their Sins pardoned; !for ye cannot find me one Man in the World, whois not either complaining of his Corruption, or, at ?leaft, who hath not Caufe to qomplain, The beft are ^born 1jjborn down and mattered with their Corruption Forithe Exerofe and Trial of their Faith and Patience, asjjfome of the Cananites were left in the Land to try whc-ilther the jfraehtes would keep the Lord’s Way or not.Away then with fuch an Objeittion, and refolve to be-ilieve yourSin is pardoned, notwithftanding or remain-jing Corruption: But if ye will not believe as longlas ye dind fuch Corruption in you, ye will never be*aaieveye are pardoned as long as ye live: For yeiwill never want Corruption while ye are in thisI World.5 Said fhe, Do&or Jamefon at Newcafile faid, Thet< more Grace, the Jefs Corruption the more Corruption, theI fe/i Grace, Said I, This is alfo true, the more Grace aaMan hath it fhall be the better tryed, and he (hall beIfure of the more Temptations : We mutt not con-iclude we have little Grace, bccaufe we have manytTemptations, but we mutt rather conclude the contrair.i| I Said ftie, All Grace isdb feeble and weak in mejIjjthatl cannot tell whether I have any or not.ij] Said I, Madam, ye know a new born Man-child is aIfmall Thing, yetheis a reafbnable Creature, and aMan tho’ he has not the Exercifc of Reafon to knowthis; Grace is as little as Reafon in a new born Babe:Therefore if ye find your own Wealcnefs,andb elittleein your own Eyes, and if ye mourn bccaufe your Graceis fo little, and would fain have it encreafed, and if yufe the beft Means that ye can to make it grow, thenbe attured ye have Grace.Then, crying out, fhe faid, Away, away, fpeak notto me of any Grace I have; for I am gracelefs, I feelnot fo much as a Dram of any Grace; bur, on the con¬trair, much HI Stuff.Said I, I fee ye are ftriking on another String, yeare going to Senfe and Feeling with the Matter : ButI with Joy remember I heard you fay, at fuch a Com¬munion, that ye had great Senfe and Feeling, and thatye felt much Joy in Prayer ; What fay you now 1Said fhe, 1 told you before, that thefe FeelingsW'ere all but falfe Conceptions of Joy. Said I, If youhave not Feeling now, it is little Matter; yewill get Feeling, if God will, ere it be long. DavidCa hadbn J as little Feeling as ye have, when he erieil our,Tvat bis Ey esfa tied in waiting for God's Salvation : I% then, A Perfbn may have his Sin pardoned, and yettcel no Comfort for the prefent : Ye muft firfl be¬lieve, and then afterwards feel: Ye know' that Senfew ill deceive in judging of Colours or Quantity, howmuch more in fpiritual Things? Believe firft,and thenpray, and ye fhall have Feeling to your Comfort.Said ihe, I find my felf weary of Prayer, and ready ]eo faint and give over.Said I, So did David, Pfal.lrAx. 3. His Eyes failed,and he was weary with crying, and he cried fiill,,pfal. Ixix. 6. 13,16. So do ye.Said fhe, I am not only void of Senle and Feeling,hut, alas ! I am filled with wreathful Fears and Ter-rors. Said I,So was David, Pfal. Ixix. 2. The Waterswere gone over bis Soul: He was almoft overwhelm¬ed with Temptations and Fears of God’s Difpleafureas well as ye: So the afilided Compofcrs of P/4/. Ixxvii.and Ixxxviii. and cii. Madam, do your Terrors driveyou to God, or from him? If from him, let themdo fo no more, and ye flhall have Comfort: If to him,do fo fiill, and ye will get Delivery.Some Days afterwards, I, coming to her, asked herhow Ihe was ? Said fhe, Never in fuch a Cafe; forthe more I would have him, the further he goes fromme; it is very like to be an utter Defertion. Then I,not knowing what to fay, privately put up my E-jaculation to my Lord, That he-would give me what> to anfwer her ; and, as his Spirit moved me, I faid, |Courage, Courage, Madam, Is it fo, that yc perceivea greater Fremrncdnefs and Efirangement oetweenGod and you than ever you did before ? Happy are Iyou, you w'ill get the Thing ye-are feeking : Thereis never greater Darknefs, than immediately beforeDay break, never greater Rage in the Sea, than im¬mediately before a Calm .* So there is never greaterDifiance, Fremmednefs and apparent Abfcnce from aSoul, than immediately before the Enjoyment of hisPrefence : I hope to fee a fair quiet Morning, notw ith-fianding of this dark temped nous Night. Said fhe.Ail this"i$ butDaffing ; for this Night I have beentemptedC 17 3tempted to defpair, and put Hand in myfelf, and todo other vile Things, fuch as to blafpheme, and todeny him. Said I, It is all the better, for it makesmy former Anfwer good, that the Matter is come tofuch a Height. But had you not greater Strivingand Relu&ancy, as you had greater Temptation 1 Saidflic, I was always fhiifting and refifting as I could.Said I, Madam, for your further-Satisfadlion, knew,Thar, tho’ Satan may throw in moft vile Temptati¬ons into the Hearts of God’s Children, yet as long as yerejedl and abhor them, they are not your Sin, butonly your Trial: Did not the Devil purfuc Chrifthimfelf with fuch like Temptations ? And, if he wastempted to fo horrrible Ills, may not any Chriftian betempted alfo ? Do ye notoppofe them by the Word ofGod ? Then furely they are not your Sin, unlefs yeyield to them.Said Ihe, That is my Cale : I have yielded tofeme of thefe vile Thoughts.Said I, perhaps the Multitude and Violence of themdid fo tyre (or weary) you, and put you out of Breath,as it were, that ye had no Strength to refill them :Ye were fo fore-foughten with them, that Satan madeyou to believe, that ye yeilded : But know it is oneThing to yield to a Temptation, and another to befo tryed and outwearied with the Temptation, thatye are not able to make any fenfible Refiftance as onceye did : So as that which ye call Yielding, was notyielding, but an Inability thro’ your fainting tomake Refiftance: Waitftill upon Chrift, and ye uiallat laft get Vhftory : For the more ftowly that Com¬fort comes in at hrft, the more furely it fihall aboundto you at laft. Tho’ ye cannot fay, The Lord hathpardoned me, yet let Hope comfort you and fuftainyou ; Say, I hope the Lord will pardon me : Thenthat Hope will draw you to Prayer, and fet you atDefiance of Satan and your own Corruption, and willmake you highly to efteem of Chrift : And this willfupport you, and will, in end, bring you Com¬fort ; which the Lord grant for his own Name’sGlory.AfterAfter this, fhe found herfelf in great Extremity ofPain, and in a Fever, and fhe finding an Excrefcenceor fwelled Lump in her Flcfh,fhe apprehending it to bethe Plague (for the Peflilence raged at that Time inLondon) faid to me (fhe being tempted of Satan tothat Doubt) Mr. Archibald, Is it poffiblethat a Childof God can die of the Plague?Said I, Lord forbid that ever ye put fuch a Thingin Queftion! Have ye not heard,that both in Scotlartdand in this Kingdom,God’s deareft Children have beenfmitten unto Death with this Vifitation ? Said fhe,I never heard of any. Said I, Wo betide that Ene¬my Satan, who never refts to put fuch Things in yourHead: He is but a Liar. Tel! me, Madam, Do yequeftion whether Mary McKonneI your Couiln was aChild of God ? She now refts with her Lord, who,by this Vifitation, took her to himfelf in as greatPeace as in the gcntleft Sickneft, whereof ye were anEye-witneft.Said fhe, I muft confcfs fhe was a moft dear Childof God. Said I, Call yourfelf then a Liar, and callSatan a Liar, who tempted you to believe a Lie. Butfor your further Satisfaction, it is concluded, thatHezekiah's Difeafe, i/a. xxxviii. 21. was the Plague;he had a Boyl to which a Lump ofFigs was applied,and fb he was cured: When God offered David hisChoice of three Judgments, he wifhed rather for thePlague orPeftilcnce, nor for Sword or Famine, 2 Sam.xxiv. 13, 14, 15. I think an ele£i Man, anda Child of God, would have been very loth to havemade Choice of the Peftilence, if it be a Viiitationlaid only on the Wicked, and not on the Godly alfo.Away then with that foul Enemy, who has put fucha Thought in either your Mouth or Heart, and qu*-ftion this no more.At another Time, after a little Reft fhe had gottenin Sleep, fhe laid, O! what Mercies I have gottenfince I was born And fb fhe fhewed me a little Book,wherein fhe had written a Catalogue of Mercies re¬ceived, and of the particular ACfs of God’s Kindne fsto her in his Providences thro’ her Life. But (faidfhe) fee my Hypocrify and Ingratitude: Are not e-veryi very one of thefe Mercies, as a Ditty againfta1 me, thefe Mercies are as ib many Judges to con-; demn me, who have been fuch a BackHider from myI Lord, who has been fi> loving and merciful to me. I1 replied, Madam, I am very glad that I have feen this2 Sight; tho’ ye fay they arc Judges to condemn you,r yet, in the Lord's Name,I aiture you, and the Spiriti of God will ere long allure you, that they are Sen-j fences of Abfblution, proclaiming to the World thati there is a found Work of Grace in your Heart, and|| that they are as fo many Judges ablolving you fromr the falfe Calumnies that Sataw lays againft you, andj doth charge you with; for this dings down Hypocrily,ft j and lets up Reality. Tho’ a Hypocrite go far on in51 outward Formalities, yet it is more than he can do toi j meditate deeply on God’s Goodnefs and Chrift’s Love,lijj and to regiftrate the Tokens thereof in Heart andlii; Book: Fear not. Madam, the Lord hath made this1 laft Temptation, by which Satan defigned to throwi down all, to be a Mean to flop Atfaw’s Mouth, fo as| he has no more to fay (and indeed this proved to be■ | her laft Temptation : For I faw her fpiritual Exercife,■ 1 b-y Degrees, growing more and more calm, I perceiv’d• i| that her bodily Weaknefs did increafe thro’ he feveralWeeks Sicknels, and thro’ her Difquiet of Mind Ihe4 w'as under: And therefore, I faid further to her) bei earneft with God in Chrift, by Prayer, to hold off<1 Satan, and I fhall be carneft with God for you, as heI fhall enable me : For ere it be long the Duel will beI over, and the Field fhall be won.And, accordingly, after I had left her, thefe that■| waited on her Perfon that Night following, did ob-| ferve her to get the calmeft Reft that Night beyond[ any other Night fince her Sicknefs began ; they re-• J marked alfo that fhe fang in her Sleep, of this theyi I informed me the next Morning.Then I faid, when I came to her in the Morning,| Madam, ye have gotten calm Reft, praifed be yourj Lord: What was your Dream this Night when yefmiled in your Sleep ?Said fhe, Smile! how could I but fmile, when Ifaw my Lord drawing by the Curtain ? But he wentquickly[ 20 ]quickly away. Then, ftirring as tho’ file would haverifen uy, file fa id, Where is my Love gone ' For fee¬ing I have gotten a Blink of his fair and lovely Face,I cannot want him, or clfe I will burft.I laid, Wherefore gave he you this Blink, but tocheer you up till ye get more ? Ye fay, That ye cannotwant him ; he can as little want you, he is within aCry, and no Crying he likes fo well as Prayer: There¬fore cry aloud and fpare not, for if ye want him,Prayer will get you a Blink of him, yea many Blinks,till ye arrive at laft at the full Enjoyment of him.Then fhe deiired me to leave her for the Spaceof two Hours; and then I thought all was well whenI perceived her to delight in Prayer. Bur, tho’ Iwithdrew, yet fearing her Weaknefs thro’ her longfpiritual Exercile, and her heavy bodily Sicknefs, Ioften came while the two Hours Time was palling,and looking thro’a Chink-hole in her Chamber-door,I law her embracing hcrfelf, as if fhe had been keep¬ing fomething in her Bofbm; and, laying to my Ear,I heard her fay, Art thou now come, fweet Love 1Thou are heartily welcome to this poor Cottage ofmine, unworthy of fo glorious a Gueft; foul and filthy,and black Bride am I for fuch a fair and lovely Lord,even the King of Glory; long have I fought thee,and dear haft thou, my Lord, bought me ; and nowfeeing we are met, we fhall never part again.Tlien I withdrew from her Chamber-door, andafter a little Time, returning again now and thenwhile the two Hours were fpent, I Paw her fuch aravifhed Creature with Joy, yea raviflied my Heartwith Joy alfb, by hearing her fweet and edifingWords, lb that I was not a little comforted upon herAccount. Amongft other Words, I heard her fay,I fee now that all is not loft that is in Danger, andthat God’s Children will have as many Troubles aswould load many Horfes, to fpeak fo, and yet theywill bear them all, tho’ they feem to fink under them :I fee that they who love Chrift, love him not fornought, but fhall get as good as they brought, yea,ten Thoufand Times better : I fee that Godlinefs isindeed great Gain, and brings unconceivable Content-ilnient, tho’ feme Folk in the World do think that theyjlare yoked to a Bondage, when they are engaged un-jito Godlinefl, and that they will never get leave tojfce merry again; but they are hugely deceived, andf far miftaken: For there is more true Joy and Peace: seven under the fad and dejedted Countenance of theJ (Godly, nor the Wicked have in their greateft Pro-fujfperity: I now fee that God never wholly nor totallyI|ca(ls off fuch as he doth once take by the Hand; or,’if he feemeth to call them off, it is only in their owni jApprehenfion, and for the Tryal of their Grace, andjin the fame Inftant of Time, his Hand is under theirlijHead to uphold and fupport them, tho’ they do notI jperceive it. God will have me to confefs to his Glory,ijthat the Devil and I were but Liars, in believing thatlithe Freedom in Prayer I once had, was but falfe Con-|!iceptions of Joy : It was not ib, it wa* real Accefs to|God, and my Joys were true Joys, and mercifulBlinks, which came to my Soul from a loving Lord:Jl confefs alfb to my own Shame, and to the Glory ofjl|God, that both Satan and I were but Liars, in think-ling that God’s Children cannot die of the Plague.The next Day after this, 1 found myfelf mightilyi difttempered with a Lightnefs in my Head, and ajjfeverifh Heat in my Body, and, coming to the Lady,l|l faid, I obferve my Lord’s Goodnefs to you, Madam,I that it hath pleafed him to fpare me juft till the Timeof your Delivery from Soul-trouble ; he has wroughtfirangely by me a weak Inftrument, and a brittleReed; all the Glory be to him, I will have none ofit. What fay ye to me ? For I am not able to bidelonger from Bed, my difeompofing Pain is fo great.Said fhe, The Blefling of the Lord be on you, and adouble Portion of his Spirit on you : Lord, increafehis Grace in you, and make me an Inftrument ofComfort to you as ye have been to me.Said I, being recovered of my diftempering Pain,after a little whiles retiring from her, Madam, fee¬ing we will not all meet again in this World, till wemeet in the Kingdom of Heaven, tell me what yehave to fay, that I may communicate it to yourFriends, if the Lord fhall fparc me for returningD HomeC 22 ]Heme to Scotland. Then fhe blefied them all, parfiJciilarly her Husband, Children, Brother and Siftert..Then, Said I, Madam, blefs me alfo. Said ftiejThe good Will of him that dwelt in the Bufb that burnedandtvaj not conjitmed, be on tliee Mr. ArchibaldPorteouSywho was feparated from thy Brethren, even thy dearParents for my Caufe, to come hither with me to aforeign Land: This is (faid fhe) the Bleffing ofJacob to Jofeph-. She alfo encouraged me, faying, Iam fully confident, the Lord will /pare you for tellingto the World the gracious Lord’s Love to Mary Mac-Kennel and me.Afterwards fhe fpake to God ; Thou, O Lord, haftgiven me Chrift ; give me Hell, if rhou wilt, provid¬ing I have Chrift, the only Thing I delire ; for he and )I /hall never parr again. I faid, as long as we haveTongues and Life, let us lp#nd them in the Prailes ofGod : And ye that have found Chrift, tell me what heis like, that I may know him when l meet with him.^Said fhe, I Johniv. 16. fliews. That Cod is Love .4Whenever then ye fhall find a Love to Chrift k.n iledJand flaming in your Breaft, hold on in that Strain, forye have the right Scent of Chrift. Said I, Tell mefbme-thing of the Love of Chrift to you, that fo I may fallin Love with him. Said fhe, The more I think onhim, the more lovely he is: I am wounded with theDarts of his Love : I am ftrairned how to exprefs it,and therefore I covet and long to be with him in Hea¬ven. It was thro’ Love that Chrift became Man, and i«!ied and rofe a<rain, after he had purchafed a King¬dom for us: It is a boundlefs, marchlefs, free and con*)ftant Love : Othe Heighth, Depth, Breadth, Length,.:and Unmeafurablenefs of this Love of Jefus / Manya Time have we run away from him, but his Lovewould not let him part with us; when we were loft,he found us again. When we had lyen long in ourSins, his Love railed us up again ; I cannot get Wordsto exprefs this Love ; it pafl'es the Heart of Man toconceive it, it is fo very deep. Therefore when yeperceive my Senfes to fail me in dying, I deftre, thatye may found in my Ears thefe Words, the Love of ',Chrift, that fo my very Thinking of his Love maycheer* | ii( iii . . ... ...       miiBBlcheer me up at the lalf Galp. Said I, If it plealeGod 1 be alive, and with you, I fhall do it: But whatdo ye think of eternal Life, and of the Joys ye fhallget in Heaven ? Said fhe, That is the only Life, inrefpedl of this Life ; for this Life, which we live inthe World, is but a lining Death: But that Life in Hea¬ven is a lively everlafting, honourable, immortal,eafy,happy and comfortable Life : In bis Prefence is Fulnefsof Joy-, andat bis right Hand are Pleafuresfor evermore.Next, I asked, How do ye like Death? Said fhe;very well, I think it a welcome Gueft, it will do methe beft Office that can be, it will take me to Life e-ternal, it is a Palfage to bring me into, and to plungeme in that Ocean of Love; it is the Mean whereby Ifhall be brought to the Fruition of God for evermore,that I may enjoy bis immediate Prefence : Glory toHim, who has fweetned my Death and Grave by hisown Death ; I may fay, O Death ! where is thy Sting ?O Grave ! where is thy ViBory ? If I could win out ofthis Houfe, I do think, I would be content to go andfee my own Grave made. Said I, Madam, What doye think of the fpiritual Marriage betwixtChrift and abelieving Soul ? Said fhe, No Body can conceive theunfpeakable Love of the Bridegroom to his dear Spoufe,the Lamb’s Wife : She fhall be clothed with the gar¬ments of Salvation, and arrayed and compaffed aboutwith the Robes of his Righteoufnefs, and adornedwith Jewels and Bracelets: The Spoufe may rejoicein the Honour of her Bridegroom, for He is a gloriousLord, and fhe is a bafe finful Worm: She may rejoicein his Love, which found us when we vjere loft, anddid cloth us ( when naked) with the Garments of Sal¬vation : His Love wafhed us in his own Blood-, when wewere wallowing ip cur own Filthinefs and Pollution. TheSpoufe may rejojpe in the Beauty of the Bridegroom ;for he is beautiful among, and above all the Sons ofMen, being the only begotten of the Father, and his Facefining as the Koon-day-Sun in a cloudlefs Firmament,His Garments being white as the Snow. Muft not thenthe Joy of her Marriage with him be incomprehenfible?At laft fhe left off fpeaking, and was obferved thro’the following Night, by the Motion of her Lips andEyesF.yej, to pray much In her Hearr. The next Mcrnrfingj I coming to her iJeJ-iide, faw hef DiiToiucion a papreaching, and her Kycs fixed towards Heaven, witha Smiling : Therefore, as fhe made me ro promife, Ifounded in her liars the Love of Chrifl often. So fhe,Vwith lifted up Hands, fixed Eyes, and fmilingCountenance ( as I have faiJ ) and, with a Heartjfdoubtlefs, panting after a Fill of her Lord’s Love, fteptpeaceably into Eternity, and fo was plunged over Headand Ears in thefe Rivers of Pleafures, which fhelonglooked for, and fball now enjoy for evermore. Amen.\FINIS.A Catalogue of BOOKS to be fold by William GrayiBook-binder, without the Weft-Port, Jirf. Clofe', South-jfde.DUrham on Revelation.Durham on the Song.Durham on Ifaiah.Wijlifon on the Santification of a CommunionSabbath.The Cloud of Witnefles.God’s Appearance for his Church.Bofton on the Covenant.Bofton’s Four-fold State.Bibles plain and'gilded.Quarto Bibles.New Teftaments.Pfalm Books.The Saints Pocket-Book.Brown’s Chrift the Way the Truth and Life.Mr. Erskine’s Sermons, different Kinds. jMr. Gray’s Sermons.Catethifms and Proverbs, &c. And fevcral otherBooks not here mention’d.