th;eMAD PRANKSOF. TOM TRAM,vONJN-LAWTO MOTHER WINTER.I *K TO V/HICH ARE ADDEDHIS MERRY JESTS, ODD CONCEITS,IANDkl UB/tiOFSCOTUtftnted by J. & M. ROBERTSON, Saltmarket,PLEASANT TALES:BEING VERY DELIGHTFUL TO READ.THEMAD PRANKSOFTOM TRAM.CHAP. I.jl merry 'Jejl betwixt old Mother Wintery andher Son-in-law Tern.r HERE was an old woman, named Mo¬ther Winter^ that had but one fon-in-law, and his name was Tom; and thoughhe was at man’s eftate, yet would do no-thingbut what he lifted,which grieved hisoldmother to the heart. Upon a time being inthe market, ihe heard a proclamation, Thatikofe that would not work Jhould le whipped,,At which the (rid Woman Leap'd, and withgreat joy home flic comes, meets with herfon, and tells him the mayor of the townhad made a decree, which was. That altthofe that would not work Jhould be whipped.Has he fo, fays he, marry, my blefting onhis heart :• for my part, I’M not break thedecree. So the* old woman left her fort,,and went again to the market; {he was na lfooner gone but her fon looks into the ftone ‘pots, which ftie kept fmall beer in: andwhen he law that the beer did not work, Jil| THE MAD PHAtfKS, &c. 3; takes the pot, ftrips off his doublet, andtil with a carter’s whip he lays on them as hardi| ao he could drrve. The people who falv him; do it, told his mother what he had done ^1 which made the old woman cry out, O! thati young knave will bs hanged. So in thatI tone home fhe goes. Her fon feeing her,came running and foaming at the mouth to1 meet her, and told her, that he hud brokeI both the pots; which made the old woman,i to fay, O thou villain ! what hail thou done?1 O mother, quoth he, you told me it was1 proclaimed, That all thofe that would not■work, mu-fl be whipp’d; and I have ofteni| feen our pots work fo hard., that they havefoamed fo much at the, mouth, that they be¬fouled all the houfe where they Hood; butthefe two lazy knaves, faid he, told me?That they did never work, nor never meantto work; and therefore, quoth he, I havewhipped them to death, to teach the reft oftheir fellows - to work, er never look me inthe face again.CHAP. r.Another JeJl of old Mother Wintert and herSon Tom.UPON a time mother Winter fent herfon Tom into the market, to buy hera penny worth of foap and gave him twelve-peace, and charged hith to bring it home-fafs. Tom told her it fhould be fo; and to4 THE MAD PRANKSthat end it fhould be fafe brought home, ac¬cording to his mother’s charge, he gees a >1buys one penny-worth of feap, and hiredtwo men with a hand barrow to carry theJbap, and four men with brown bills toguard it along to her, giving them the ele¬ven-pence for their pains; which made hismother in great fury, go to the mayor of thetown, who committed him to prifon: Now,the prifon window joining clofe to the may¬or’s chamber window, Tom, and fome othermerry prifoners like himfelf, getting a cupof good liquor in their heads, began to fingand roar and domoneer, infomuch that themayor heard them that night, and chargedthem they ihould leave off drinking andringing of bawdy fongs, and fing goodplaims. Tom told him, That he fhould hearthat he would amend his life, if he wouldpardon his fault. The mayor faid that fortheir mifdemeaners, they fhould be thatnight in prifon, and upon amendment, be¬ing neighbours, he would releafe them inthe morning. They thanked the mayor,and Tom Tram prevailed fo far with a friendof his that he borrowed three (hillings;which three (hillings he fpent upon his fel-jlow prifoners, which made the poor men beruled by him, and do what he enjoined themto do; fo when the mayor was gone to bed,the prifon window, as before obferved, be¬ing ciofe to the chamber window, they be-guo to fing p’afms fo loud, that the mayoror TOM TRAM.;|couid take no red; which made him cauk:one of his fervants to bid them leave oiliinging. Tom Tram laid, That it was themayor’s good coimfel that they fhould fmgpfalrns, and fmg they would, as long as theylived there. Which nnde the mayor bid theijailor turn them out of priibn, without pay¬ing their fees.CHAP. HI.Hv'iv Tom ferved Ids Ho/iefs, and a TobaccoSeller, being another of his Jcjls*.JTT happened that Tom was fent on an er-:j_ rand forry miles from his abode, overheaths and glains, where having difpatchedibis bufinefs, he chanced to be lodged in a:room that opened into a yard, where hi*hoftefs kept many turkeys; which Tom,Teeing, he thruils pins into two of their head*and in the night they died. The womantin the morning wondered how the fowlsThould come to die, Tom perfuaded her Tmt(there was a great ficknefs where he dweltfiamongH all manner of fowls, and wifhed hisihoitels to Hing them away, the which fheilid. lorn watched where Ihe flung, them,land when he took his leave of his hoftefs,it was at fuch a time when Ihe was bufy fet-ting bread intfc the oven, fo that he wasCure flie could not look after him So he;goes and wraps the turkeys in his coat, andt iway he runs \ but finding his two turkeysI6 • HE MAD PRANKSheavy, he fees a man that fold tobacco upand down the country, at the foot of a hill,when he alighted to lead his horfe down thehill, at the bottom of which he falls down,and lies crving as if'he had broke one of hislegs, and makes to the man a rnGfi piteous Ilamentation ; that he was fix cr fever, milesfrom any town, there being no houfe near ;and that he was like to perifh for >ant offuccour. The man afned, Where he dwelt?he faid with a knight, to whom Tom didlive as a jefter. The man knowing the knight,and thinking Tom’s leg had really been bro«ken, with much ado lifted him upon tlie; .horfe. When T^m was mounted, he pray¬ed the man to give him his mailer’s turkeys.Tom made the horfe to gallop away, crying ;out, I fhall be killed! I fhall be killed! Omy leg! what fhall I do! O my leg! Theman feeing him gone flood in amaze, andknew not what to think; neyerthdefs, hedurfl not leave his turkeys behind him, for ,fear of difpleafing the knight, but carriedthem lugging along fretting and fwearing inhis boots, till he came to the next town,where he hired a horfe to overtake Tom, butcould not, until he came to the knight’shoufe, where Tom flood to attend his com¬ing, looking out at the \Vindow. When the,man alighted, Tom then called to him f&loud, that mod of the houfe heard him ; O*laid he/now I fee thou art an honeft man,5 had thought you had fet me upon yourl!OF TQM TRAM.. ;/'teadftrong horfe, on purpofe to deceive rueIbf my turkeys. The man replied, A po?ri rake you and your iurkeys, for I never was-play’d the knave with lb in my life; I hopethat you will pay for the hire of the horle,which I was forced to borrow to follow youwithal. That l will, faid Torn, with all myheart.C H A P. IV._How Tom paid ihe Man for his Horfe Hire.HjPOM alked the man what way he inten-X ded to travel ? Marry, faid the man*I mull: go back with the horfe 1 have hired.C Quoth Tom, what did you give for the hireof him ? Said the man, I gave five {hillings.i1 Well, faid Toni, I will fet you to the next( public houfe, and then we will eat one cf| the turkeys; and I will bring you in goodI filver, the five {hillings for the horfe hire.| The place appointed being two miles off,IC Tom appoints three or four of his compa-g nions to meet him, who did not fail, forI they were there before Topi and his friend,r who came riding upon the horfes, Tom uo-Ion the hired horfe, and the man upon hisown. Tom alighted, and called the hoftlerto fet up his horfe, and to give him oatsenough, and caufed a turkey to be roaftedwith all pofiible hafte; which, according a&he commanded, was performed. Eut Tomwhifpered to his conforts, and wilhed them3 THE MAD PRANKSto ply the man with drink; whilft he, in themean time, went to the hoft, and told him.They came to be merry, and money was ;fhort with him and dehred he would lend ohim ten ihillings upon his horfe. The hoft :having fo good a pawn, lent jt him, know¬ing it would be fpent in h;i houfe. So Tom twent and gave the man five fhillings for thehire of the horfe, and fpends the other fivefhillings freely upon him : by that time theday was very nigh fpent, fo that the man .could get no further that night, but Tomand his companions took, their leaves andreturned home and the man went his wayto bed little fafpeiting the trick Tom hadput upon him. In the morning, the manriling betimes, thinking to be gone, couldhave but one horfey unlefs he paid ten fhil¬lings, for Tom had left word with his hoft,that paying the money, he fhould have bothhorfes. The man feeing himfelf cozened a-gain by Tom, paid the ten fhillings, andwifhed ail fuch cheating knaves were hang¬ed, fo away he went fretting and foamingto fee himfelf abufed.CHAP. V.HuW TJerked a Company of Gentlerwn*"gT happened that a company of gentlemenbeing difpofed to create mirth, rode famemiles from home to be merry, one of themwould needs have Tom to wait upon him.Tom was as w€Un^r^s afe to be h? tfe&tcompany but as tiyiy were cbrain^ ibom^:i one cf them cuts the reins of Tom's bri¬dle $ fo that when Tom mounted upon hi*"horfe, the reins broke, and the horfe ranaway with him in the-midil of a great heath'whereon fcood a large gallows againft which'i the horfe flood, and rubbed his fleck, ft*l that the gentleman hoop'd and hallow’d,,and i&id, Far^wel, Tom, farewel; but Ton:1•i; alighted from his horde, aitd made fall his! reins, and with his fword cut three or fouri! chips From off the gallov/s^ and at the nextI tavern Tom met with them, where theyi jeer’d him not a littfe-; but Tom very ear-iii neftly entreated them to forbear^ yet thei more he entreated them, the more theyill play’d upon him: But to be«v«n with them,I m the morning Tom calls the oft:ter, andA fends him for nutmegs and ginger, and gets.a-a grater; and when he had grated them, heis alfo grated the chips of the gallows, andI anix’d with the fpice only a little nutmegfl and ginger he laid towards one end of thet trencher for himfelf, and with a gallon ofi! ale into* the gentlemen’s chamber he goes,I begging of them not to mock him any more> with the gallows ; and he would give theml that ale and fpice; and fo, fays he, gentle-i men, I drink to you all. Now as foon as11 he had drank, die ofller call’d him, as hegave him charge before fo to do, down flairsruns Tom, as fafl as he could : the gentle-10 THE ivKD-.RRANK^in&ii in^de all pollib'le fpeed to drink yp: the.ale and fpiee before he came up again, andthat was. what Tom defied. When he cameagain, feeing all the ale and fpice gone, hefays, Gentlemen, will yon know why myhorfe carried me to the gallows ? Yes, faysone of them. Well, fays Tom, it was tofetch you fome fpice to your ale, and if youwant I have more for you; and with thatfhewed,them the chips out of his pocket,and away he runs, leaving the gentlemen tolook one upon another, ftudying how theyfhould be revenged on him.CHAP VI. ,How Tom rode a Goffipping.TOM heard of a company of women thatwould meet at the place a houfe-warm¬ing, to welcome one of rhe houfe. Thefe ■women had formerly abufed Tom. and now •he thought to be even with them, fo he goesto an apothecary’s (hop, buys a pound of 'purging comfits, and puts them in a cake jwith other fpices, and drefles himfelf in 2women’s apparel, and gets a horie and apanne!, and to the houfe he comes, knocksat the door, and afked the maid, whetherthere were many women, came a houfe-warming? The maid faid, Not yet: I prayfays Tom, take this cake,.and if I come notnt the meeting, let them eat it and be mer¬ry, i for I muii go to a woman that is -ready-OF TOM 'TRATvLi! lie down, and awa-y he ^oes., The wo*Len came, -and wondered what wotnaii iti.ould be that left that cake 9 fome-of them,jppofed that it was fome midwife; Theyaid a r hiie, and the perfon they espefted> be with them not coming, they rdf to-leir meat, and at laft to the cake. 'But it•as not long in "their bellies beforedt began) work, fo that one mull go to ilooi, ano-:ier to vometing, and all of them were 10ck, that the fmeU of them perfumed thej oufe, and the breath of them was fo ftrongfhat none could endure it: In which timetom faifts himfeif into man’s apparel, andi^ith a ftaff in his hand, came where his:<;oliips were, and hearing them groaning allnjhehoufe over, opened the door and a Iked,hem what was the matter ? They anfwered,fhey were all poifoned. Marry, quoth Tcm, ,| hope not,, if you pleafe to let me ha -e a *aorfe, I will ride to Mr. Doclor’s and fetchfin antidote to expel the pcifon. Take myaorfe, quoth one; take tny horfe, ‘faid ano-|her; or mine, faid a third. Well, well,laid Tom, J will take one. And into thestable he goes, and takes three horfes, and(0 the doctor’s he rides, and told him, thattill the people of fuch a houfe had eaten fome-ilthing tha{ h'.ndred them from going to llool ;mnd prayed him that he would without de-Ifilay, carry them Cl's me ^Glyfters; and that,|hey had fent a horfe for him and another3] or his man. The dpCtof, greedy of money,THE MAD PRANKShafted thither with his glyfter-pipes tiS fA*as the horfes could carry him and his man *but the doftor no fooner came into the houfe*but he fmell’d there w^s no need of glyfters*In the mean time Tom told not only ali'he metwith, that there were fuch women met tobe merry at inch a places and not only they,but all the women of the houfe were poifon-ed but went Hkewife to their hulbands, andtold them the like; fo that all the people*thereabouts repaired thither; which madelthe women fo alhamed, that they knew nodwhich way to look, becaufe all that faw themjudged they were drunk ; fo that inftead oncomforting them, which they expe&ed, theyfell a reviling them; the women alfo fell tofcolding among themfelves, and would havefought, had not their hufbands parted them,by carrying them home.CHAP. VILHow Tom fcrved a company cj Gypfiet*Thappened on a day, towards night thatthere came a company of 'Gypfes into a*town, and had not -very long been there rill;Tom met them, and .afked them, What:they made there ? They faid, they came totown to tel! the people their fortunes, that•thereby they might withftand enfuing dan-|gers. Aye, fays Tom,. and where do youaie to-night ? They told him they could not5tell. Nay, faid Tom, if you wiU he con-OF TOM TRAM.i tented to lie in fttaw, I 'will bring you where; you may lie dry and warm. They thanked! film, and told him they would tell him hisI fortune in the morning for nothing. Tomi thanked them, and therefore conveys themi i into a little thach’d houfe which had a ditchi round about it, very clofe to the wall there¬of ; that houfe Tom help’d them to fill wi^h! llraw, and fee them take their lodging ; andli then, it being dark, Tom bad them good-! night; and as foon as he was over the bridge,1 which was a plank, he drew it after him;and in the dead time of the night, Tom getsa long pole, with a wjfp of ftraw at the endof it, and fets the draw on fi? v calling outiIto the reft of the fellows to^.uft for them-fclves; who thinking to run over the bridge,fell into the ditch, crying and calling outfor help, while, by Tom’s means, mod partof the town dood to fee the jed ; and as thegypfies waded through the ditch, they rookthem, and carried them into an .houfe, wherethere Was a good fire, for it was in the middof winter; where Tom counfels them, thatthey Ihould never make him believe that theycould tell him any thing, that did not knowwhat danger fhould befal themfelvest But,fays he, becaufe you cannot tell me my for¬tune, I will tell you yours; For to-morrowin the forenoon you (hall be whipped for de-■ceivers, and in the afternoon be hanged forfetting the houfe on fire. The gypfies hear¬ing this fo drick fentence, made hade to dry14 THE MAD FRAKSthenifelves, and next morning ftole out of ,town, and never came any more there.CHAP. VIII.■ Hozu Tom fold bis mother’s Trevot, and cozen¬ed an Aquavit a Man that fold hot water. ' ’ :-IN a winter night, coming home very late,Tom Tram fell with his arms before him,and at the laft run his nofe againfl a poll;what, quoth Tom, is my n<Sfe longer than jmy arms ? And afterwards he dropped into $a well that was in the yard, and crying our,help, help, al! is not well that is in the well, ; -the neighbours came and pulled him out, {and he dropped like a pig that had beenroafted on'a ipit; but he was then in a coldcondition, fo he went to bed, and covered |himfeif; but before morning, having a foole- #1.aefs in his belly, Tom had beihk the Iheets; j.and when feme, by the quick feent of their >nofes, had difeovered the fault, he told Jthem, it was nothing but the clear mud of ;.the well that came away from him ; rnd if he jj 1;died of that ficknefa, he would be buried by y,torch-light, becaufe none Ihoutd fee hirngo 5to his grave. Juft as heJiati fo faiJ, in camea hot water man, of whom he requeued togive him a fup; which having, tailed, he 1 ;ifeigned himfeif to be in a hot fever, and rofe 11up in his clothes, ran away with the aqua-vitte man’s bottle of hot water, and tookhis mother’s trevot, and fold it fora long i.' QV TOM TRAM. 15inking pple, and a falconer’s bag ? whichfiling tied to his fide, and having drank up:,i poor man’s hot Water, he came reelingme with an owl upon his fill, faying, Itgentleman-like to be betwixt hawk and.zzard; and he told the aquavitae man,U,t he had font the trevot with three legs,the next town to fill your bottles again.CHAP. IX.' ToVi Tram's wooing Cicily Summers, theneat Wench of the Weft,1 “SICILY Summers, whofe nofe was thenas fair as the midnight fun, whichlined as bright as Bacomhine* was beloved/-young Tom t ram; and a fad (lory to,11, he grew not worth the bread he eat,trough pining away for her Jpve. Tomias loth to fpeak but ftill whillled j At lad,shen Cicily made no anfwer, he burft cutif thus: O Cicily Summers, if I Tom Tram,'In of mother Winter, and thou Cicily Sum-ters, be joined together what a quarter lhalie keep, as big as three half years; befides,rricily Summers, when thou fcoldefl, theni;;rinter Hull prefently cool thy heat ; ands hen we walk on the ftreet they'll fay, yon-er goes Summer and Winter; and forlildren, we (hall begetevery year ageneration' l Almanacks. So they went to the parfonid were married; but they fell out fo ex-emely, that Ihe fcplded all the fummer-r$ THE MAE PRANKSfeaFon; and Tom he drank good ale, ali ,>told old tales ^ali the winter time, andthey conld never bat thrive all the year thro* lrTom Hved by good ale, and his wife by eading oatmeal; and when Tom wrent to bfidrunk in the morning, fhe put oatmeal ia4he ale, and made caudle with muftard in. tdlead of eggsT which bit Tom fo hy the nof^that it would run water; but the next daj;he would be drunk again.C I I A P. Xy |How Tom ujed a finding man of a CatbcdrciChurch in the Weft.ONCE there was a cathedral finging man}that had very much anger’d Tojn|and had made fongs and jells on him; where¬upon Tom got upon his back an ox-hide,,.with the horns fet upon his bead, and fo layin a hedge bottom, waiting tin the fmging;man came by, who he was lore muft pats;that way: at laft came the finging man, up!ilarted Tom out of the hedge bottom in hiscx-hide, and followed .him: the finging',man cried out, the devil! the devil■! No,,quoth Tom,. I am the ghoft of goodmanJohnfon, living fiard by fhe church ftile»unto whole houfe ye came and frag catches,,and owes me Five Pounds for ale, thereforeappoint me a day when ye will bring me mymoney hither, or elfe I wd!l haunt thee ftilkThe finging man promifed that day fe’enight.OF TOM TRAM. »7d accordingly he did; and Tom madeIfnfelf brave clothes with the money, andeethearts came about him as bees do aboutilioney pot; but Tom wore a rope in hi&} cket and being afked if he vv’ould marry,v would pull it out, and laugh, faying,»nave broken my fhins already, and will benfer hereafter; for 1 am,an old colt, andw may have as much wit as a horfe.CHAP XLhe hired hhnfelf to the juJHce, and wha%pranks he played while with him."T''HE juftice at this time being without aman, and finding Tom to be a livelyHow, aflting him, if he would ferve him*nes, quoth Tom, for I am a great manysliles from the country. As foon as theyhd agreed for wages, Tom was immediate¬ly entertained: But he had not liv’d longii»ere before the jufiice and his family wasibliged to go to London, leaving no bodyt home but Tom. Now in the juft ices ab-5 nee, an officer brought a. lufty young wo-iian and a little man with a complaint; fa\ ey knocked at the door, and Tom let them;; then placing himfelf in his mailer’s chair,2 alked the woman what Ihe had to fay,-iiho told him that the man whom Ihe hadnrought before him hud lain with her byi rce. Adzooks, quoth Tom, is it poffibleflirt fuch a little fellow as this could foresrS . THE MAD PRANKSfuch a {trapping dame as you, Alas! Siifa:d fhe, although he is little he is ftrongWell, little v/hipper-Fnapper, quoth Tomwhat do you fay to this; He replied, JJkiyour worlhip it is ralfe what fhe fays; tbtruth it this: I have been at fea, and coming afhore, where I received my pay, I ma ;iwith this woman, and agreed with her fa 'half a crown, and when it was ever, ! pull’d,out my purfe to pay her honeflly wh?.t 1 hat,agreed for; but fhe feeing that 1 had a con.fiderable fum of money, contrary to oubargain, would force me to give her tel{hillings, and becaufe I would not, fhe habrought me before your worfhip. Have yotgot that purfe of money ? quoth Tom: YesSir, faid the feaman. Give it into my hancfaid Tom. He receives it, and turning tethe woman, faid, Here take it and get ahouyour bufinefs. She replied, -I thank you:worfhip, you are an honeft good man, andhave done me juftice. The little feaman thimean while wrung his hands and bitterly crieeout, 1 am ruined,, for it is every penny Jhad in the world. Well, quoth Tom, haftcafter her, and take it from her again. A&.cording to Tom’s order he runs after hefand When h*e came after her, he faid, l mufkand will have my purie again : Then fhe fel.about his ears and cuft hi:n ; nay, this dienor fatisfy her, but fhe dragged him backagain to Toni,, who fat as juftice, and tolchim, that the fellow followed her for th<OF TOM TRAM. 19Irfe, which he in juftice ^‘ave her. Well,d Tom, and has he got it ? No, Cud fhe,ijhink not, before he fhould take it fromI’d tear out both his eyes. Let me fee[again, fays Tom: She gives it to him.ail the money in it? auoth he. Yes, Sir,td Hie, every/_nny. Why then, faid he,re little whipper-fnapper, take your purfervnj and as. for you, Mrs. Impudence*Id you defended your honeity as well as'ui did the monev, I never had been trou-ed with thisJ complaint. Here, Mr, CdlWlable, givQ her an hundred lafhes at the'Dwn’s whjpping-poft: which was accord-ijitgly done, and Tom was applauded for hisIft proceedings-.SEVERALMERRY TALES.ip/TALE I.a Scholar and a Taffter on a WinUr night,THE tapfter faid, Sir, will you go to bed.No, quoth thefcholar, there are thievesfjtbroad, and. would not willingly be takenflapping. So the tapfter left him, and be-20 MERRY TALES.' ing gone, in ca';'e a fpirit into the chambe*with his head under his arm, fo that h idurft not (Hr, but cried out, Help! help*hre! thieves! thieves. So wh^-n they of thjhoufe came to him they alhed him, wh^was the matter! Oh, quoth he, the devil 'was here, and fpoke to n'£ with his head itunder his arm; but now i will go to bed-. :and if he conies again, I will fend him td ithe tapfter to help him to make fafle reckon, tings : It being a cold night, quoth he, I willflril put hre to toe, that is, I will warm myroes bv the fire, then I’ll go to bed. Anilfo he did, and a great reckoning the nsxrmorning put the fcholar out of his jeft, fay.ing, that was in earnefl made too large areckoning, he being but poor Sir John of .Oxford. tT A L E II. 1ONE that was going to a wedding had agreat occafion to untrui’s a point; whereup¬on he went under a hedge, but. the place ],not pleafing him, he went under a hayftackand then into a faw-pit, and afterwards in- fto a hog-ftye, where he did his buflnefs.Now the other clowns that, were with him,aflo-d him if he had done his talk and d<iys ^labour; Yes, quoth he, 1 have (hit three |Callings in nine-pences, go and fetch them »;they are more than a day’s labour will cometo. So they went to the wedding houfe.MERRY TALES. 21;d when they came thither, they wereliking a reckoning for the fidler, and everye gave what he lifted. Oh, quoth one of1 -m, if you want money to make up the. :konmg, here is one that can fhite three! flings in nine-pences. If he can, quothguefts, let him bring them hither in hisi >uth, for I fear they are of fo foft a metal,.t they will melt in fpite of his teeth. So;er they had danced a while, a fart wasj ; whereupon fays one, this fart was fullrtrged, for it yielded a large vent $ mean-ik his fhirt.TALE III.©OWN in the weft country a certainipceited fellow had a great nofe; fo a:.nintry-man by him with a fack of colrn,(filed him, faying, your nofe Hands in my. y ; whereupon the other fellow with thelirat nofe, took his nofe in his hand, andId it to the other fide, faying, A pox on«:e, go and be hanged.T A L E IV.|ONCE there was a company of gypfieslijit came to a country fellow on the high¬ly, and would needs tell him his fortune:aiongft ether things, they bad him allureseifelf his worft misfortunes were paft, anddt he would not be troubled with croflesUihehad been; fo coming home, and hav-, »22 MERRY TALES,ing fold the cow at the marker, he lookin his purfe for the money, thinking to ha.told it to his wife; but be found Trotmuch as one crofs in his purfe; whereupthe remembered the words of the gyphes aifaid, that the gyphes had faid true that ifliould not be troubl'd with erodes, and tl|they had picked his pocket, and left norpenny in his purfe. Whereupon his wjbaked and cudgelled him fo foundiy, tl|he began to perceive that a man that hadcurfed wife Ihould never be without a crctko’ he had never a penny in his purfe y aibecaufe it was winter-time, he fat a whiby the fire-fide, and after went to bed faperlefs and pennylefs.TALE V.A Farmer’s wife in the welt had thrlpigs, which Ihe loved exceedingly well, aifed them with good butter-milk and r*he*but they would come running into the hotand befoul the rooms: whereupon Ihe tfolved to fell them at the market, becaithey were better fed than taught, but aftrwards they were ftolen away from he iwhereupon die fuppofed they were driven ito London to learn manners; but faid Iji,they were too old to learn to turn the fj•in Barhplomew fair, and therefore believfome butchers had ftole them away.Her cock had a piece cf cloth kwen abc.MERRY TALES. 23,)n, anU was left upon the perch, but^fter-uds ftolen; whereupon fhe faid, that herck was turned fcholar in a black gown;Id fb Ihe went to Oxford to a conjurer, toiow what was become of her pigs and herck. The fcholar fmiled, and rolcl her,e three pigs were blown home, and theck was made a batchelor of arts in one ofe colleges. I thought fo, faid the woman,'Hr fure batchelors of arts are very coxcombs.T A L E Vi.ONE in the country having bought asoak of one that ftole it, or made it byght of hand, he was challenged for it}ltd being troubled in mind,talked a friendI ' his, a very witty fellow in the pariih,;row he might come off? His friend replied,;K: would tell him for a quart of fack. Sothe tavern they went, and having drunkpint, he deftred to know how he mightme off? When we have drunk the othernt of fack, quoth his friend, Ell tell you<(Ow you may come off. The quart beingunk off, he replied, he would not tell him!l they were in the ftreet. So going out ofe tavern, Do you fee, quoth he, yonderHour feller’s-fhop, pointing as it were,ith his finger; do but buy a rope thereid hang thyfelf with it, and I warrant theemu lhalt come off, and never be troubled)z that matter.24MERRY TALES.TALE VII. <A Country Clergyman meeting a neigbhour who never came to churcn, althoug!an old fellow of about fifty, he gave hinfeme reproof on that account, and alkefhim if he never read at home ? No, replietthe clown, I cannot read. I dare fayfaid the parfon, you don’t know who madyou ? Not I, in troth, erred the courttry man. A little boy coming by at tbtfame time. Who made you child ? faid th<parfon, God Sir, faicl the boy.—Why ioolyou there, quoth the Clergyman, are yoii „not afhamed to hear a child of five or fis ■years old, tell me who made him, when yotthat are fo old a man, canjiot!—Ah! fakthe country man, it is no wonder that ht(hbuld remember : he was made but t’other<iay, apd it is a long while mealier fince ,Jwas made,*■«FINIS.—0C0—GLASGOW,Priatej by J, 5c M. ROBERTSON, SaltisaAet,k d c c c i i.