Token for Mourners,o R,A Sufe Guide to Heaven.4 WITHREPARATIONSFor ifear Latter End.'''\Alfo fome Holy Refolutions in Trepa-j | ring for Eternity.\Newlj publilhed to the Glory of GOD,and Benefit of the Poor,Written by ROBJiRT ROSS, anJ Set forth for the1 Good of all Chriftian Familier,.JOB Chap. XIX. ver. 25, 26,&c. For 1| know that my Redeemer livsth, and that he■ {hall [land at the Latter-day upon the Earth}And though after my Skin, Worms dtftroythis Body, yet in my Flejh [hall I fee GO D.Whom l [hall fee for myfelf, and mine Eyes1 [fall behold, and not another.Printed m Swan-Clofe, for the AU-i raoK, 1746,A COPT of Choice FERSES.COnfider Reader as you look,How luddenly the Soul was took;Pray take Warning by her Fall,And be ready at CHRIST’s Call.Death little Warning to me gave.But quickly fent me to my Grave,O hafte to C H R IS T, make no delay,tor no one knows his dying Day,'Death doth not always warning give.Therefore be careful how you live ;Learn to die,,for die you muft.And die to live amongft the Juft, (longWhen ficknefs comes, the night you think i \From watch to watch, the morning cometh orBefore night come make ufe of precious lightBefore Death enter with his ghoftly Sight. -Repent in Time your Lives amend.Death will come your Lives to end.See that you all Times prepared be.That fudden Death furprize not thee.Adorn you1" Souls with Grace,prize WifdotThan all the Pearls on the Indian Shore,(mor*Think not to live ftill free from grief & forroiiThe Man that lives to-day may dieto-morroi( ? )O cruel Death that did no Warning giv«.To take my Husband, and leave me to grieveI hope, in Time, my Tears I (hall refrain.To think with Joy, that we (hall meet again.Therefore your precious Time mifpentEach precious Day your Life efteem, (redeem.Improve yovr Talent with due Care,For the Great Day your felf prepare.GOD teach to live, that you may dread,IThe Grave as little as your Bed;To die, that your vile Bodies mayRife glorious at the lad Day.| O may you always ready (land.With your Lamps burning in your Hand ;May you in Sight of Hcav’n rejoice,Whene’er you hear the Bridegroom’s Voice.EVery Day, fpend fome Thoughts of E-ternicy, the Thoughts of Eternity(hould make you vary lerious about yourSouls: Let us in Time remember Eternity^Let us every Minute we have to live, fo liveasifwelivedineverlaftingTorments. OMan!Whoever thou art, think upon thefe Things;but thou efpecially, who findeft thyfelf guil¬ty of any grievous Sin, repent and amend :Remember Eternity, and think upon theDay of Death ; it is uncertain, in what PlaceDeath wdi meet thee, do thou therefore ex-pefifc Death in every Place, as the Lord (hall' find)find thee, when he calls for thee; tho* thoulofeft every Thing elfe in the World, yet, O IMan ! have a Care to keep thy Soul, be wil- rling to part with All for thrift, to lay down ;your Life for Chrift, to lofe All, to fave yourSoul, and gain Eternity. Many of you rife ;up early, and go late to Bed at Night, and ,cateth bread of Sorrow all the Day, and ;loadeth yourfelves with thick Clay ; and I :am fure, that fuch Perfons, being Night andPay taken up with the World, are not pre- rpared for Death; I remember a Wofd re¬corded of a wicked Man, who was exceed-*' •ing- rich ; faid he, I-would give fo many Thou- (faiidi cj Poundst ij Death would hut give me oneDay longer, yet he got it not; and h ;w iud-denly may Death furprize any of you, as itdid him, therefore prepare for Death Anadmireable young Child of about fire Years (of Age, laid to his Mother,when his Fatherwas dead, foe being often grieved for the vLofs of her Husband, Grieve not Mother, tho*my Father is dead, yet God is alive ; and fromthat Day, to the Day of her Death, (he nr--vergrieved any more. My Advice and Coun-fel to young Perfons is this. That you willpray to God, and Gnd will hear you ; For llove them that love me, and they that feek me ear¬ly fhall find me; if you have Regard to yourown eternal Happinefs, it ought to be yourchief eftichiefeft Care to ferve and glorifie God; itwas for this End, that God both made andI redeemed you; do but confider, how welcomea young Perfon is to God, it was to youngISamuel that God revealed himfelf, and that,at Inch a Time when the Word of God wasprecious and very rare, and you know, that$t. jfo&B the ybunged of all the Dilciples, wasthe only Perfon of all the Twelve who wasfuffered to lean on our Aw/ow/sBofom. Pray,think if you can, how unconceivable a Joyit will be to you, when, in your elder Years,• fou can think of your Youth; how great ai G'nfolationwillitbetoyou onyourDeath-bed,how eafie will it render your Aco'unts at thegreat Day of Judgment ? And how much aI whole Life {pent in God's Service, will in-creale your Glory in Heaven ? I can but! Counlel you,"and I fhould; therefore be wife: in Time, that you may not be miferable toi all Eternity, pray unto the Lord, and he willI anfwer : 1 will guide you continually, andJatisjyn your Souh, and make jat your Bones, and you (hallhe Itke a water’d Garden, and God will make• the Habitation of your Righteoufnefs prof-perous; if ye know thefe Things, happy areye if ye do them; and the Glory of the Lordthall be your Reward. I would (under GodJbe a Means to help you to find your Feet,ji and walk in the Ways of God's Cammand-menis.( )ments, and run the Race that is fet beforeyou.The whole Defign and Aim of this -Dif- ■courfe is, to warm the Heart and enrich theConfcience, and dired the Life, to teachMen how to live and to die, and how to at¬tain a blesful Life after Death,REmember that many go to Bed and ne- -ver rife again, 'till they are awakened !by the fearful Sound of the laft Trumpet; buthethatfleeperhand awaketh with Prayer,flee-peth and awaketh with Chrift : You know notu-hat Hour Chrift may come,and call you outof the World; be ye therefore always ready,for Heaven is always ready to receive you.What happens to«ny Man may happen to e-very Man, every Man being furrounded withthe fame Meafures of Mortality; 'tis true in¬deed you may live, till you are old, but it*s astrue, that you may die while you are young. ODeath I (faith the Son of a gracious Woman)at ceft able is thy Sentence to the Needy, and ttyhim that is vexed with all Things; the Troublesof Life hath made the bitter in Soul to longfor Death, to rej >icc exceedingly when theyhave found the Grave. Confider your Bodies,from whence they came, and confider you* 'Souls, whether they are going. Dare you en¬ter into your Beds and fleep fecurely any oneNight,: Nigbr; not thinking how you may awakei whether in Heaven or in Hell?DO all you can for God, and God will bewith you. Behold 1 nm with thee, faidhe to Jacob, and I will hep thee whether thoufoefl; for I will not Leave thee until 1 have donethat which 1 have fpoken to thee of.Therefore pray to God, and turn fromyour wicked Ways, then he will forgive your, Sins, and heal your Land. Do you think withyourfelves, what a fad Thing it is to mils ofChrift. Certainly that Man's or Woman's; Condition muft needs be fad indeed, thatij lives and dies without C6r;/?.Now if it Jeem Evil to any of you to pray toI God, ebuje you this Day whom you wilt ferve. Asfor me and my Kouje, we will ferve the Lord. Sohe made a Covenant with the People that Day,j and all the People faid unto Jo/hua, The Lordcur God will tueferve, and his Voice will we obey.Pray unto God that this may be in you,that at the great Day, when and I (hallappear before God, that we may be all ableto fay, Here ami, and the Children which thouhad given me.A PRAYER.My Soul, wait thou (lill upon my GOD formy Hope is in him, he is my Strength andmy(. 8 )my Salvation ; he is. my defence, fo that 1 fhall no.fail. Q Lord God be merciful unto every one thatf repares his whole Heart to Jeek thee, 0 LoraGod, the God of his Fathers, tho* he be not ac¬cording to the Purification of the Sanfiuary. OLord,/ walk in the midft of Trouble : 1 be fetch thee re-frefh me : Stretch forth thy Hand upon the Furyand Cunning of mine Enemies, that thy Right-Hand may fave me. 0 make good, thy lovingKndnefs towards me, and defpife not, l befeecbthee, the Works of thine own Hands. Amen.And now to conclude, Lee us all thereforeio live, and fo fpend our fhorc Time here onEarth, that fo in the glorious Morning ofthe Refurre&ion, when the laft TrumpetSounds, wttnay rife to the Refurred ion ofLife and Triumph, and Rejoice among glori¬ous Angels, to all Eternity, which the Lordof his Mercy grant. Amen.FINIS.