THECOLLIER ROYAND HISCANDLE BOX:Relating how he and,75 others wereburied alive in a Coal Pit: witha copy of the letter he sentto his Mother, afterhis Death !AN AFFECTING NARRATIVEKIRKINTILLOCH: ■\V I L LI A'M M ‘ M I L L A N.PRICE ONE PENNY<^0^ KL LIOn May 3, 1815, a dreadful acc'dent took placein Heaton Main Colliery, near Newcastle-upon-Tyne. .At about half-past four o'clock in themorning (Wednesday,) the water from some oldworkings broke through the coal in the north-westpart of the colliery. Some of the men who wereworking near the spot where the water forced itsentrance, ran immediately to the shaft, and hap¬pily escaped from the pit. On their way they metthe underviewer and informed him what had hap¬pened, when he ran to give the alarm to the othermen, who were working in the higher part of thepit, in the hope that they might he able to effecttheir escape also ; but this, alas ! they could notdo, and he himself perished. The water rushedin with dreadful rapidity, and flowing naturallyto the lower parts of the workings, soon cut offthe only means of escape, by closing the bottomof the shaft, in which the water soon rose to theheight of nineteen fathoms.Exertions were immediately made to reach thespot where the men were supposed to he, fromsome other workings, but without success. Threelarge engines (one of one hundred and thirtyhorse power) were instantly employed in endea-jVouring to draw the waterfront the pit, but with-THE COLLIER BOY, &c. anut the desired effect, as the water in the shaftbecame deeper ; from which it appeared that thewater was coming out of some old waste into theit.By this catastrophe seventy-five persons (fortv-one men and thirty-four boys) lost their lives.■ he sufferers left twenty-five widows and eighty-five orphans to deplore their untimely end.From various difficulties, the bodies were notarrived at until nine months from the time of theaccident.On the 6th of January, l.c16, the first body ofthe sufferers was brought up in a state of greatdecay ; but ascertained by the neckcloth to bethat of William Scott, between seventy and eightyyears of age, who attended one of the furnaces.In a few weeks afterwards, the remains of therest were found in different situations, in theworkings of the pit.1 here was one part of the workings very muchon the rise, where several meft and boys had beenemployed at the time of the accident. At a craneadjoining the place, there were ten human bomes,and the carcases of two horses found. The waterhad never risen so high as the above workings byeighty or a hundred yards. On proceeding up thewagon-way to within about fifty yards of the cranethere were found two bodies lying near each other,and every ten or fifteen yards other two bodies;from which it was conjectured, that these men hadgone two at a time, to the tail of the water; andtheir strength failing them through suffocation,they had fallen down and died.Who can describe the scene after the breakingin of the water, and when all hope of escape wascut off ? 1 he thought of seventy-five human be¬ings all at once shut up in a pit, with the appalling6THE COLL I Ell BOYprospect of a lingering, though certain death, istruly distressing. They had not died from hun¬ger, as they had killed one of the horses, and hadcut slices oft’ his hind quarter, some of which werefound in the caps and wallets of the men uncon¬sumed. They had likewise an abundant supplyof spring water. The exhaustion of the atmos¬pheric air by the influx of water bringing with itfoul air, was no doubt the cause of death, prob¬ably in a day or two at the most. Many of themen, and some of the boys, were pious, and mostof the latter attended Sunday schools. It is prob¬able that the pious men would employ their timein exhorting those wno were irreligious to repen¬tance and faith in Christ.After the bodies were put in coffins, the rela¬tives were permitted to go down the pit for the'purpose of recognising; their husbands or children;and Elizabeth Thew, whose husband and twosons had perished, was among the foremost. Shereadily found out her son William’s body by hisfine auburn hair. What must have been her feel¬ing when in one of his pockets was found his tinCandle Box, on which, in the darkness of thesuffocating pit, or with only the dim light of hisDavy lamp, the dear boy had, with a nail, en¬graved on his candle box the following touchingwords:Fret not, dear Mother, jor we were einginawhile we had time, and praising God. Mother,follow God more than ever I did.And then on the other side were found the fol¬lowing words, which, it is supposed, must havebeen dicated by his fathes, as it bears his signa¬ture, though he could hot write :MrAND HIS CANDLE BOX. 7Ij‘ Johnny is saved, he a good lad to God andtdaj Mother.John tiiew.( «t fnc-siame of box and writin^On pn°es 4 and 6.)T his letter, though short, is full of meaning;•and to use the language of the apostle Paul,Bitmay with truth and propriet y be said, “ He, thoughdead, yet speaketh.” It has cheered the wilow’sheart in her solitary and desolate conditien ; andthe precious memorial istreasured with great care,d hat could be more consolatory to her than thefact that her husband and two sons were “singino-and praising God,’ even in the prospect of certainand painful death. Ah ! what meaning is theren the words while we had time ; or w hile the vitalair enabled them to breathe and live. In this wemay observe that the same grace which enabled-Paul and Silas to sing psalms in the dungeon atPhilippi, enabled these poor colliers to praise Godunde, the most awful and appalling circum tances.I hen, again, his humble acknowledgment that hehad not served God as he ought, in his exhortationto Ins mother, Mother, follow God more than everI d/d; is a better test of his sincerity than anyconfident assertions relative to his religious state.Lastly, we see the anxiety of the father for theoonnort of his wife in the simple expression to hisson Johnny, that if spared (and this was the case)le was to be a good hoy to God and his mother.I he follow ing are a few additional particularsrelative to Wihiam J hew, the writer of thesetouching lines:—He was the second son of John and Eli abeth Thewand was seventeen years of age at the time of the cti-iasirophe* A younger brother, John, was one of thtocV" »THE COLLIER BOY, &c.jnatle, escaped with others by the shaft. William anaJohn were scholars in the Byker Sunday school at thetime, and were steady and well disposed boys. Williarrmet in class among the Wesleyan Methodists at thetime, and attended an evening class where he leanedto write and cypher. His mother relates that her sonswere very affectionate and steady; that after leturningfrom thpir work and when cleaned and refreshed bythe r meals, they were in the habit of reading the hibleto her ; and never retired without prayer, Many plea¬sing‘anecdotes are related hy their mother particularlyof Wifiiam, who seems to have been her favourite son.On one occasion, he said to her, Mother, when I'm aman I’ll work hard for you. and keep you like a la ly.His mother observes tl at his wishes and inlentionshave in a manner been realised in the support she hasreceived by means of the letter he wrote to her in thepit.The history of the condle btfx is remarkable, and thecircumstances connected with it show that the Lordoften provides for his people in a remarkable mannerMrs Thew, the widow, had much affliction in her fam¬ily. Another son named Thomas was, a ..few yearnafter the above calamity, killed hy the small waggonsin another pit. Liberal subscriptions were made forthe relations of those who suffered hy the inundationwhich has been described, of which Mrs Tliew partookfora few years; but she had to depend chiefly on herown and her children's labour for a long period for hersupport. In those circumstances, the candle box hasbeen made the means of procuring for her very season¬able he’p. It has been exhibited in various parts ofthe kingdom, and the story related ; and thus sponta¬neous contributions were ebtained, which have beenthe means of supporting the otherwise destitute widowTHE END.