INFERNAL SECRET!INVULNERABLE SPANIARDWHO WAS TERMEDEmiE ®IEIR1&©I& ©y S3 Jl 3D IB H IMContaining an account of the wonders of hisWithered Arm, and his connectionKith a Horde ofDESPERATE BANDITTI,Whom he employed to Imprison and Subjugate thosewho refused to swear obedience to his Will;ALSO, OFIII8 UBIQUITY!OR POWER of being in TWO PLACES at ONCEHIS HELLISH COMPACTtf)e ^otoers of Barfmess,HIS AWFUL DEATHAT THE TERMINATION OF A CENTURY.GLASGOW: \ _PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLER.1' ^3HT5 JiMMiai'*HT .«0■ :: an ir.k'iz ZMK&m&iTM 3•lan*-.. >■ it on#; ■ 'si ::. &-&& T® Si 0 % X'£^ &K !.-(■V ", i. ,'. 5 mu ,in«K V'-'j u\> • • t .W ti Aii ■'jmcmAa aTAJiaaaaa,,o<V -.v;,..u'viWi *un». rtiin'.npi'V rt fasyolivas . «k>A I\'.V; ; tiA oi aaastbyht wm tA k»«>iiy» «>< >to ,Oi&l* -fTSa . o . . ri/ jt o y /.. i„a t-.> aalw'O'i' r->‘■v vK^vf.'Vi vv&iiaa'vv aitt:,*5n:^r>^' lo ??5«teC| ■*> 'i ■> •’,HTA3C Jin WA..7)]'! ' I ■ L :■> .//ii . .S', i : 'j:VOi .' ?0Vifaaflas-Sooi? sut a-.'t- aatr/ruwTHEINTERNAL SECRET.ll Afatind; Uiat is, every body of the least notethe capital of Spam, had been invited by theincient and honourable family of the Antaldis toe/oZTf1 H fmival given’ i,, of theecovery of some estates in India, belontniijr to thendon-ed and only daughter of bon Alviz tEeandees vied with each in the splendour of theirresses and equipage, and the superb illuminationsf the hal s, and the glitter of a gorgeous banquetnd^itl * S0Ul',ln8pirir^ sou"ds ofthe best vocal«d instrumental performers, filled every heartjoy save one—and that one heart was Isiaora’s>r whom the feast was given* to whom every noble, and whom all her own sex spoke of as a glass^r*W7^?tbe day might see and -dyl-the^icl !^ the hlgh'b0rn’ the beauti‘om the I p^he,d. an opportunity of retiringom the crowd of fashion and rank, to indulge inhtary musings the sadness of her aching heart.? ^onas absence could not fail of being kown •n0LbieS Wh° asPire to the lovelyI s hand, attributed her departure to the an^arance of a stranger, who seemed to pursue her®rto’“whho i8,he ?.what is he ? wit J * . 8 • U here does he come from?” wereX3veVeThn7th’ y,et C°Uld n° °ne arls'verL d , ,• 1 h.e dr.ess he was always seen in,P daik, but splendid, and his feature* noble.4but pallid. .The Marquis Antaldi, though by nomeans pleased with his mysterious guest; yet bowedrespectfully at his approach. He passed out ofsight towards a lenely pavilion, here he found thejjonna Isidora and thus he addressed her— Ah,lovely Isiaora! though every eye averts itself mterror and disgust at my approach, yet yours willbeam more mildly on me, when you recollect whatI have achieved in far more distant climes, to provethe love and high wrought interest you have here;s ivinff this, he placed his hand upon his heart, andbent quite lowly before the Donna. I«dora, whoserecent obligations to this man, weuld admit of noequivocal reply immediately added, “ Only clearone mystery f think how painful it is to hear theman vvhose life is honour and whose practice is be¬nevolence, accused of dealing with the powers ofdarkness.” The stranger’s countenance at this ad¬dress became more gastly; but he said in atone ofvoice suddenly assumed, “ I can scarcely think youcredit this.” You know I strive to cast '^'de everyinjurious thought where you are concerned addethe Donna ; yet your personal knowledge of ma ythings for ceturies past; yonr instantaneous recov¬ery of my long lost papers from India in one shortday your presence every where when my pre-senc; or my interest need a champion fill my soulwith superhuman awe ; mingled with a gratitudeI find no words to express sufficiently: but the^perpetual secrecy to which you bind meand alarms me:” and here the Donna waved herhand in a melancholy and forbiding manner—thestranger bent before her, and slowly retiring as he«,erfd-" Farewell, m.gr.tefel leidor. ».y»Wand guilt are then you think inseparable—a long^Hearme, hear me, tho* unknown and awfulbeing ” hastily exclaimed'Isidora, when she ($•5him departing in sorrow. £‘ Not so replied h<v“ 1 can encounter danger and difficulty, but I can-hot endure your reproach; recollect a moment, 1protected thy late husband’s life when surroundedby a band of desperate bravoes ; 1 released theewith thy pining infant from the Inquisition’s s onywalls.” “ I know thy worth,’’ exclaimed the lady;i4but an inward feeling which I cannot conquer,and which I dare not rebel against, compels me todemand thy name. “ Montilla,” uttered the un¬easy stranger. Montilla I” said Isidora, slowlyand distinctly repeating the name, ‘‘ why morethan a century has elapsed since any of that namewere herd of.” Isidora fixed her eyes upon thestranger, but his face underwent no change; herperplexity w as as great as ever, when the wholedrift of her mind was changed by a loud and shrillscream, and tbe voice of Isidore’s female attendantexclaiming,—'‘The child is lost, 0 Juan! dearlittle Juan !” “ O here me, holy Virgin," ejaculat¬ed the distracted mother, rushing to the spot; buther attempt was perceived by the stranger, whobade her remain and fear nothing—on utteringthese words, he huiried instantaneously to the spot.Voices were heard, but nothing satisfactory couldbe resolved on by Isidora—lights were up anddown in quick motion, but no certainty of the fateof her little Juan relieved the agonized mother.“ O stranger ! 0 Montilla !” ejaculated she, <l Irepent my coldness and ingratitude towards thee;where is now thy strong arm to save—where artthounowr ?” “Here!’ returned Montilla, leaping{towards the rails, and placing the boy safely in herarms. “ Bless thee ! bless thee with a mother'sblessing; for myself I will become thy victimor thy bride.’’ At this moment voices and foot¬steps were heard making towards the pavillion,a drawn by the stranger’s boldness to save the child.“Ah!’’ said Montilla, “ voices approach, strang’i'rs iare at hand—I will shun the sight of man until myIsadora is confirmed my own • reniember thy so¬lemn promise has been given.’’ Most true,” said .Isidora, raising a jewelled rosary to her lips, ‘‘and jregistered above.” Enough,’’ said the mysterious *one, and was speedily lost among those leafy walk's,left in darkness to increase the effect of the remain¬der of the garden, which shone brilliant with ahundred thousand lamps. The Marquis Antaldi;her aged father, entered, and started with pleasureat perceiving the infant safe, after tire variousterrible accounts which had reached him; he wasawe struck to learn from Isidora she owed the in¬fant’s restoration to the stranger; he reproachedIter with encouraging his advances, hut was cut shortby the appearance of Don Alphonso who bowedto the lady and her father, and was about to with¬draw, when the Marquis insisted he should stayand propose any question he pleased to his daugh¬ter; but Isidora coldly replied, ‘‘To-morrow,Signor, every satisfaction shall be afforded you."Alphonso withdrew, and the perplexed and aston¬ished father demanded of his daughter where sitehad ever seen the extraordinary being who thuswalked the earth, in order to perplex and alarmthe world. ‘‘ I have seen him in Europe, Asia, andAmerica, my father,” The Marquis looked as ifhe expected to hear more; but Jsidofa was silent, <for she recollected her solemn promise of secrecyso seriously pledged to the stranger. “ Has be no 'name?” demanded the Marquis. “None, Signor,"’was his daughter’s reply ; “ but I can answer nofurther interrogatories—he saved my child at theperil of his life, and 1 am bound by solemn oath,and no mortal creature can tempt me to infringeit.’’ Isadora remained in a fixed and resoluteposition, from which she was only moved  —' ■ —17by the entranof' of some noblemen, wbo made in¬quiries after 'r^r child, eudeavouriug to obtain noticeand aUention ; i>ut I>idora's whole soul was so wraptin achin*. wor.d--r of-tl'e pastrami present, that shepasseii directl,' hy the noblemen; when she wasgone, violent denunciations' were uttered againstthe stranger, whose mysterious ^bearing alarmedevery one. One nobleman, whose fanciful maskand i ich domino bespoke him a grandee of the firstorder, exclaimed, as he drew the company together,with tiie air of imparting some importanht matter—‘‘ Tins is some signor who exhibits himself as a show,at bull feasts, carnivals, and masquerades; but at anassembly of men of courage, reputation and honourhe is seldom if ever to be found.” “You are mis¬taken Signor,” said a figure in the centre, whom noone recollected to have seep before. .tl He is alwaysto be found when sought for;” when withdrawinghis mask, he appeared before the eyes of the aston-ed Antaldi and the affrighted nobles to be the‘‘ Mysterious Stranger.” At this moment loud criesof help, murder, as»assination, were heard close uponthe gate communicating with the pavillidn—thestranger turned his eyes upon them, and tauntinglyasked w hich of them chose to move, but they wereall mute. Montiila cast’a look of deep scorn atthe nobles, and snaching a sword from the lastspeaker, he rushed out leaving them with open¬ed eyes and mouths to gape and gaze at eadhother. Before they could recover themselvesfrom their trance of wonder and alarm, thestranger appeared before them, hearing the suitorof Dona Isadora, the gallant Don Alphonse in hisarms, pale and wounded ; on recovering,, Alphonsoseemed to recollect his obligation to the stranger,and extended his hand to thank him, but Montillashrunk from him, exclaiming—‘ your tench is hate¬ful to me”—.Mid rushed from their presence. Noone pursued; and, Theodore, the domestic of DonAlphonso, now presented himself to assist hismaster, they ea«h accompained the wounded gentle¬man to the palace of Antaldi. The wretch’s limbswere quivering, and though no one was near at handho seemed struggling with some superior being.Theodore ran to his assistance, at the request ofIjdioriKo, who iras now joined by the MarquisAntaldi, to whom every information had been given,and who resolved to be present at the examinationof the dying man. His mind was relieved on thes<-ore of his daughter’s safety from his having ob¬served her enter the picture room, which was near¬ly on a level with the ground. Thither he hadordered the wounded man to be brought, and heimpatiently awaited the summons of Theodore toiearn the horrid particulars of the case. W-e willnow return to Isidora, who having seen her littleson Joan attended to, and watched pntil he fell in¬to a deep sleep, had wandered, full of perplexingdoubts, into the picture chamber, where pausing tora moment, her hand touched .the crucifix she hadused to register her oath upon before the presenceot her child's deliverer.—“Why” exclaimed shealoud, is my heart possessed with such perpetualfear r I quiver but to think upon my oath. Atthis moment, her father uttered with Theodore,bearing the wounded man, Isidora closely observed,in trembling silence, till that passed. The Marquisaddressed the wounded wretch, by asking, whoand what he was. The bleeding mam re¬plied. a dying man fast hastening to perdition, vetnot sold, not sold, nor bartered. Oh, speak mylord, and tell me, cannot years of burning torturewash out. the deadliest crime ? Must I be lost forever? Speak tby crime, said the Marquis, whilelife permits, and we will seek some holy man, tocomfort thee, A cordial was now handed to the9poor wretch, who was somewhat revived, and thuscontinued:—‘‘Skulking from the city where mybrother will this morning be broken on the wheelalive, I encountered a signor, nobly dressed. I wasperishing for bread and I fired upon him with anaim that never once has failed in twenty years, butthe ball fell harmless to the earth. I rushed uponhim, and seized some property he bore about him,but he held me with an iron grasp. Jfly mortalpowers were paralyzed, and I could only uttercries for mercy. “ None, none, wretch,” he cried,“ unless with thine own blood thou signest a com¬pact to Oh, I dare not, cannot utter what —Here Isidora rushed forward, and with an energeticshriek, exclaimed, “ say on, say on, for heavens andall our safeties sake.” The poor departing victimopened his half-closed eyes, and faintly uttered, ‘‘ Icannot, they are words before unheard by humanears. I refused his tefrms.” Here the poor wretchentered into convulsions and died. The corpsewas born away andthe Marquis about to follow,when Rosa, a domestic belonging to Donna Isidora,rushed in to say the stranger was at the feet of hermistress, and had nearly frightened half of thefamily out of their senses by his sudden appear¬ance.” The Marquis resolved on a» immediateinterview and explanation with Moutilla. Aecord-ingly, he requested Rosa to step back, and say heawaited a conference with the stranger in thepicture room; but hardly had the girl departedfrom the ehamber by th,e right-hand door, beforeT igaro, an old domestic of the house, entered bythe left, to say the stranger had been seen by himat the rack beside the brother of the miserablevictim who had just expired, and that on a sudden,the condemned malefactor was released from the,wheel by the mysterious powers of the strao'jer,and neither of them ware to be found by TOO10guards or executioner. Isidora now entered, tosay the stranger had left her. The Manju'is' cross¬ed himself devoutly, and repeated a prayer againstwitchcraft and sorcery. While her father was thusemployed, various and many were the thoughtsthat whirled through the burning brain of Isidora:if this mysterious being is in league with powers ofdarkness, what should prevent me doing' jhstice tohis crimes ? What prevent me from telling all Iknow ?” “ Thy solemn promise uttefetl on the cru¬cifix,’’ said the stranger, suddenly appearing behindthe figures pourtrayed on the hanyas. “Ah! myfather! Behold! behold!” cried Isidora; but onturning her eyes towards the centre painting, no¬thing was to be seen but the customary furniture ofthe apartment. Figaro had neither seen nor heardanything extraordinary, and the Marquis begah tobe alarmed for the intellects of his daughter;' hetherefore advised her to seek absolution of any oathor vow she might have made, when, to the utterastonishment of all present, Montilla himself walk¬ed in, and bowing haughtily to Antaldi, said in a re¬proachful tone, “Farewell, signor, where I do aservice, I may at least expect civility,” said thestranger, as he strode out at the opposite door-way.Jsidora silently seated herself, and told her beads,while she kept her eyes fixed on an image of thevirgin. Antaldi, followed by Theodore, repaired tothe bed-chamber of Don Alphonso, who was deeplybending under horrible fears and suggestions. ,Theodore, his favourite servant and confident, ex¬horted him to bear up with a manly heart, andassured him Dona Isidora could not but esteem him,and declared, if prudent resolutions were taken, hedid not doubt but the whole of the stranger’s viewsmight yet be foiled. On being urged to explainhimself a little more explicitly on the subject, he said11“ Taking shelter from a burning sun near the ruinsof St. Marcos^ Abbey, and overcome by heat, !slept ; on my awaking up, the sun set, learing thequeen of night, t6 guide bewildered travellers. Iwas about to rise, when a deep sigh arrested me,and on looking up, I beheld my brother, pale andmuttering. We long had noted that he shunnedall human intercourse, and was a prey to wretched1-nes& and melancholy. I withheld my very breath,fearful of discovery, and so eager to learn his guard¬ed secret, I became possessor of his cause of sorrowat a price no human tongue can tell the misery of.In fine, he loved a maid far beyond his lot in life,and was muttering incantations as the bell strucktwelve with heavy sound. The moon rode on inblood ; the wholcsonie foliage of the plants andshrubs was suddenly burnt up ; a noisesome vapourfilled the place; the enemy of man, in form En¬ormous, iti power infernal, obeyed my brother'scall. 1 would have efied out, but my jaws werebound with ribs of iron. I seized my crucifix,which, pr'essing to niy heart, preserved my sightand sense. Here let'me hurry on—My wretchedbrother was promised super-human power, and1 strength and riches, and a life to be preserved bywedding with an unstained Catholic each century.Mad tor love, he was about to agree, and acconMng-ly put forth his arm, and a voice, more potent thantjhe whirlwind’s wildest roar, demanded blood tosign the compact; and as evidence impossible tobe resisted,’ ’the hand and arm were given mightystrength, but stript of flesh and blood for «ver.He drew his poniard, when I, all fainting andexhausted as 1 was, put forth my quivering hand,in which I held the emblem of our holy faith,and cried, “ my brother, oh, my brother.”—Thearchfiend fled, howling, and my brother fellfainting into my arms, but his reason had fled forever. ’ “ Do you then deem this mysterious man12aided in like manner by supernatural agency ?”asked Don Alphonso. “ I doubt it not, my lords,”replied Theodore, “ and will hasten to impart thesame to the noble Donna, who may hold herselfprepared for every supernatural attack by bearingever on her person the crucifix she wears.” Rosanow staggered into the apartment, pale and trem¬bling, and addressed Theodore, remarked, she sawthe stranger signor dt her lady’s feet, and heardher compelled to promise to meet him at ten o clockthis very night.’’—The signors stood aghast, andrecollecting they had no common enemy to dealwith, Antaldi sought the chief inquisitor of Spainto defend him in these awful emergencies.We must now request our readers to accompanyus to the outskirts of Madrid untill we stop at alone spot, overgrown with brambles, on either sideof the pass, (which was seldom crossed except byway-lost travellers, who seldom lived to describe it,so numerous was the band of desperadoes who in¬habited this dreary refuge,) were overhangingrocks, thickly clothed with long coarse weeds,from which the ruffinps frequently took aim at theunsuspecting traveller. A rude cross or two, withinscriptions of entreaty to pray for the murdered, amade this naturally lone and fearful spot more fear¬ful and repulsive still. Here, then, at early morn,the terror of Madrid, the fearful Montilla, led forththe brother of the wretch who expired immediatelyafter the dreadful disclosure he had made iu thefamily of the Marquis Antaldi. Montilla now ad¬dressed the wondering robber thus:—“ Thy life isspared, and thy fate is bound to mine; dare noteven in thy thought to flinch from thy blood-signedagreement, or by the terrors of this my right arm,whose power thou hast witnessed, I will extendthee a corpse upon the earth, Recollect, thou artnot now to learn my power; I snatched thee from13the arm of justice, and I demand thy promise.”“ Yes, yes, stammered the wretch, each limb trem¬bling with alarm ; but, oh ! release me from thefire of those unearthly eyes, I cannot-bear theirgaze.” “Well then, be it so,” replied Montilla,turning from him; “ but mark, I can be everywhere at will, so think not to deceive me serveme faithfully until the hour of midnight, and allwill be well for thee, for beyond that time I shallnot need thee more—for then,” exclaimed thiswretched mortal mentally, “ I shall be spared ano¬ther century, or lost for ever,” Uttering this tohimself he stood musing and silent. Spalatco loo'ed round and recognised the haunt of his fornrassociates • he felt some slight assurance at *sight, and observing the stranger whom he dreacto depart towards an upper range of rocks, he feltfor his signal whistle; it was there the thoughtoccured, that he would venture every thing, andlooking around to see where his dreadful masterwas, he beheld him mouuting a distant rock—to re¬solve and act at once where the only chance leftfor him ; he kept his eye upon the unknown, whowas departing farther away, when, casting asidehis cloak, his whistle got entangled with it; andturning once again to see where his dread per¬secutor was, he stooped to pick up the same signalwhistle; but though at the identical moment hebent, he cast his eyes towards the hilly rock, andsaw the back of the stranger; yet no sooner hadhe touched the whistle, than he felt his handgrasped by the same cold bony gripe that had bornehim from the rack and from the officers of justice.He turned to the rock, bat the stranger had disajyfeared from thence, and was close by his side regard¬ing him with a ghastly smile. I perceive, said Mon-tilla, “'that until I have convinced thee thou art no¬thing in my grasp, thou wilt not obey me, leak, I am14unarmed, I command thee to assail me.’’ Spalatrorecollected his oath and the bloody evidence he hadgiven to Montilla; but he had long dealt in blood,and was 'resolved to make a desperate effort torelease himself—he drew his sword and rushedupon the stranger, thrusting and striking with allbis force, the sword frequently entered Montilla’sbody, but no blood issued, no injury was sustained.“ Now call forth thy comrades, thou hast been theirleader long, and thou shalt now command them ona bold and desperate expedition ; call them forth,I sav; for' l am aware this is the spot which theyvihabit.’’ Spalatro obeyed !at mice—the rockstung with the shrill whistle, and a numerous hordec ruffians, speedily issued forth, welcoming the'vturn of the Captain Spalatro, whom they imagin¬ed was that morning broke'by the wheel. They,examined the figure of Morrtilla, who exclaimed,“ Behold I have restored your leader to you. ‘‘ Nowmark again,’’ said the mysterious one, as he scatt¬ered ducats before him, “ obey and follow whitherI shall lead, and I solemnly pledge myself to granteach man his request—Behold,” continued he,opening his vest, “ I am invulnerable; dischargeyour pistols and carbines at me, and if a wound orscratch appear,' distrust my promises.’’ Mon till awas taken at liis word ; guns, carbines, pistols, andarquebusses were discharged at him; but the hallsfell ftyftn his person oil the ground, They allraised their caps and hats in token of obedience,“Not so.” said he, “attend to your gallant leader,brave Spalatro here.’’ Saying this, Montillawhispered his commands to Spalatro, who promis¬ed implicit and unequivocal obedience. “ Why yes,1 do believe thou see’st how very needless all con¬tention with my power mu<t prove to thee.’’ Mnniillathen bent his steps hastily towards Madrid and hop¬ed success, even should Isidora refuse to gratitude15and lier oath, the performance of the only rite thatcould secure the being he held on terms so’dreadfudeven to himself. 'We now return to the palazzo of Anfcaldi, wherein a chamber communicating with the teTrace at the.gardens, sat Isidora and her infant Sort. f< Why,’’thought she, “ did I promise another ititerview afcerthe1 terrors' of the past.” Ten O'clock chimed fromthe chapel and convent, and the stranger was besideher. He shuddered at the last Sound of the bell,and turning *.o'Isidora, said in a low and melancholytone, “ hitth not every year of my life since youhave khowri hie, been devoted to your safety—thy late hhsb'irtd owed his life to md-^thy fortunewas preserved by my exertions—and thy slumber¬ing child owes his existence to this ready arm.”‘‘ Ah ! that arm that dreadful arm,” shrieked Isidora.Montilla bent before her, and in a solemn voice ex¬claimed, “ Dismiss thy terror and hear thy friend,whose fate now hangs on thine : by all that menhold great and terrible or deamons trenlble at, I'mlost for ever, if when two hours have passed thouart not my bride.” Isidora shook her head mourn¬fully exclaiming, ‘‘ Alas ! alas ! I dare not.” ‘‘ Letme perish then,” added Montilla; “but learn fromme, thy life is threatened with the safety of thy in¬fant.” “ Who will then deliver both.” The eyesof Isidora 'Where suffused with tears; at the idea ofher "friend and deliverer undergoing death andtorture, after the sacrifices made for her. She bentforward, and extending her hand would have said,accept it; but the door of the, apartment was atthat moment burst open, and Theodore, who hadbeen on the watch, ran in, and with an earnestagony of manner, exclaimed, “ 0h ! Dona Isidora,beware! for you would ally yourself to a miserableOutcast, who for a term of superhuman life, is soldto powers of darkness; only pause till midnight,16lady, and when that hour is past, every thing will berevealed. Show thy hand and arm thou fearfuland mysterious being. Montilla’s eyes glaredsavagely on Theodore, hut he answered not a word.The youth continued, ‘‘ t\h, thou canst not, theyboth are fleshless, cursed from the moment thy in¬fernal compact with the king of fiends was signed—he can only be prserved by wedding with a spot¬less catholic ; thus each century has his mortal ex¬istence been preserved.” Saying this, Theodoreclapped his hands together, which beilg a precon¬certed signal, Antaldi entered, leading the way foran Inquisitor and six familiars. They approachedMontilla who did not resist or elude them ; but heturned to Isidora and said—“ thou see’st me passto death—farewell ungrateful Isidora.’’ He thenpassed out, followed by Antaldi. Rosa was dis¬missed for the night, but not before she had broughtthe intelligence that Montilla was securely lodgedwithin the walls of the Inquisition. Scarcely wasIsidora left alone, ere the bejl ot the Santa Casatolled eleven. “ Ah,’’ thought Isidora, her mindreverting to the stranger, “ will he then indeed bedragged to death ?’’ “ Not so, ungrateful woman,”exclaimed Montilla, “ now shall thou in spite ofevery earthly opposition, become my bride ; andhe advanced towards her as he spoke, but as soondrew back, at observing she held a crucifix towardshim. “ Approach not Montilla, this emblem of ourfaith protects me against unholy power.' “Butnot against thy fellow mortal, Isidora, said thestranger—thou hast refused my interference, butthou wilt immediately be born from this pace; thyfriends are now engaged in the palazzo in carous¬ing, to the destruction of the- unknown stranger.What, Oh! my satellites,” he roared, on which17the waHs of the tenuice we have already describedas communicating with the chamber of Isidora, werescaled by Spalatro and his horde. A breach wasmade in the wall, and the stranger advanced topossess himself of the Donna . when Theodore,alarmed by the unusual noise lie had heard above,entered sword in hand ; he saw at once that allwas lost. All then that can be done is to convinceIstdora, and though my weapon oannot reach thei stranger s life, it may at least assist in exposing hisinfernal secret ; accordingly with his sword in onehand and his stiletto in the other, he advanced andsuddenly fixing hr^, dagger blade in the right-handcuff of Montilla’s tunic, and riptitup, and discloseda sight that thrilled every beholder with freezinghorror—an aim quite flediless and as of a skeletonWtiselearly seen by every one. Before timelyasaistance could be procured, it appeared on visitingthe Donna's chamber, that herself and child hadbeen borne away on mules and horses, stationedwithoutside, tlie breach in the terrace wall. OnIsidora‘s awakening from the insensibility whichthe circumstances of her disappearance had caused,,she found Montilla beside her; she looked andshuddered. He said in a fiim hut hurried tone,concealment is no longer possible, therefore Isidorathou shall hear all the truth—thou hast seen mypower when opposed ; and tho’ I can hold no poten¬cy o'er man not sworn to obey me, yet I can useevil men for my agents, and I have done so; allhuman punishments are in my grasp; yet the houris fast approaching that consigns me to a fate—here his voice became tremulous, and he with somedifficulty proceeded—a fate that—Oh ! son of G od.Here he wiped away cold dews from his fore¬head, and resumed in a forced tone of hope—orsaves me for a century, and I have fixed on thee180 save me.” « Me,” faintly reiterated Tsidora.” j“ i'e*," continued ilie detected wretched man, •“ Thee ; thou car. st not suffer with* a union with !me, though 1 am thus preserved—shudder not for1 am yet a man—a wretched, tempted, conquered •being; piide, curiosity, and ambition, urged me to ‘study secrets beyond the unaided art of man toreach. I have gained them, thou hast learned atwhat a price.” Isidora could only utter, ‘‘No more,no more,’’ and grasped her crucifix. “ Well then, jinhuman woman, learn that I have earthiy power .at least upon thee; judge between me and thychild ’—-and as be spoke he seized the boy with bisnever-failing arm, and was instantly surrounded by :the drawn blades of the ruffians, who declared theyawaited his bidding. “Ob! my child!” scream¬ed the distracted Isidom—‘‘my child, my onlyone, my widowed hope. Mont.illa! stranger! pityme.” “ I do,” replied he. “ but I owe myself anawful act of justice—wilt thou be mine? the hourof midnight fast approac hes—wilt thou be mine“ Never !, itever I" resolutely answered the lady,making a grasp towards her child : but Moutiliawas aware of Urn movement, and passed the childto Spalatro, saying, ‘‘ Keep within hearing of mywhistle ; nerve thy arm with strength, and if X fail .to give a signal to thee when thou hearest the firststroke of the midr ight bell, let it guide thy weaponto the youthful Juan s heart.” On hearing this theheart of Isidora give w ay, and she uttered a faintassent to the demand of Montilla; but the pealingthunder prevented it reaching the year of any one.Nature began so clothe herself in ail her terrors;but Isitjora’s heart wras heedless of the pelting storm,;and occupied alone by terrors for her boy. Timewent on, and Montilla, who beheld the angryomens of heaven, turned once again before theDona, in the hope of affecting a change in herapparent settled resolution. With deep humilityhe kneeled, and imploringly entreated her to spare* him the commission of aw act of cruelty and blood¬shed. 4< Ah ! touch me not,” said the allnghted: and receding Iddora, “ that terrible right hand !no Mon till a, no! my gratitude is wholly thine;hut never ask, for thou can'st npver have my hand.”I lyre to the terror of Isidore, aud the more thanmortal horror of Montilla, the first sOpnd of inid-niglit struck. “ I shall be lost,” thought, lie ; thenwith a desperate feeling, he turned towards Isidora,and in a voice daunoniacal with rage, he thus ad¬dressed .her, in reply to her tears and cries for herchild—“ rl rernhle, my moments now are few, thelast day ot my o ntm y is come ; but Montilla, theidreaded one, will nut fall unavenged, I now feelI a savege joy to think my misery will not alone.be——, |Here he was interrupted py tlie hell at second time. ’’Stnke, Spalati'o, strike tl»e brat.”“Enough,” uttered the ruffian, aud the storm in¬creased as if the elements were all at war. Juanshrieked; and a clash as if of arms and combatantsin motion, was heard at intervals only. The bell hadnow nearly toiled the hour of twelve, when thewretched Alontilla falling on his knees, uttered,<l Save me, save me, Isidora, and thy cb-ild shallbe restored.; Oh ! recal your cruel ordef—gaveme thy hand, and swear that thou art mine and Iam thine ; the trembling mother did as she wasentreated ; her hand was stretched out, and shedemanded what form of words she was to utter thatmight save Montjlla, when Theodore rushed to¬wards her with the infant Juan in his arms, andexclaimed,‘‘Oh ! lady! barter not your faith norharm your soul, your child is safe. I expectassistance from the family every moment to rein¬force the small party already assembled, and whoare now successfully opposing the ruffians whichare now stationed above aud below.’’ Say-20ins this lie placed the boy near his mother, and byhis looks and manner endeavoured to inspire herwith courage to encounter the threats and entreaties of the desperate and almost lost Montdla,the bell again gave dreadful note of the close ap¬proach of midnight. Montilla’s eyes gleamed firewhen he beheld Theodore with his uplifted crucifix,and he furiously exclaimed, “ Art thou of earth orhell—if I reach thee I’ll tear thee piecem^ hettfien discharged a pistol at the interpul and faith¬ful domestic; but Theodore, whose eyes werenarrowly on the watch stooped, and avoided itseffects. Here the bell gave the last warning saveone, of midnight, the wretched Montilla becamedelirious with rage, terror, and approaching ea ,he looked fearfully around, and saw, for the fasttime on earth, the entire failurajjf all his purpose*.The Alphonse party had arrn*d many hundredsstrong; the bravos were nearly all cut to pieces.The Marques Antaldi reached his daughter and herchild. Isidora cast a remorseful look to the appal¬led Montilla. and exclaimed, ‘‘ Pray, Montilla, pray,and we will join in supplication for thee; but theonly answer she could obtain was, l< prayer ismockery now; the fiends and furies gnaw theewith perpetual remorse.” here he paused as if suf¬fering great internal agony ; hut suddenly drawingforth his poniard he aimed a blow at Juan, whowould have perished beneath the murderous aim,had net the dreaded hour of midnight tolled. Theface of nature became suddenly darkent d thenuion refused her light, a violent gust blew outevery toruh ; when the grey glimmering of morn¬ing light appeared, no traces of the stranger wereto be discovered, hut the skeleton arm and handgiaspinga poniard.A SPANISH LEGENDARY TALE.On which the “ Infernal Secret ” it tuppoted to hone beenfoundedMOJJTILLA with young Isidora the fair,Discours’d in Antaldi’s grand Hall;Mysterious his manner, terrific his air,And the Donnas who eye’d him were heard to de¬clare,That with him they’d not open the ball.His dress it was sable, but pale was his cheek—Who is he ? whence comes he ?” the cry ;But he steanly look’d on, too disdainful to speak,Isidora alone did he constantly seek,The rest he indignant passed by.22N'ow the young Isidora a widow was left,With Juan her infantine heir ;But ah! tho’ of one husband she was bereft,Whose skull by a Saracen’s sabre was cleft.Yet of husbands she need not depair.For the grandees of Spain, however renowned,On her beauty and riches would dwell;And he that could gain her, might think himself;crownedWith nuptial enjoyments that rarely are found,Tho’ hoped for, and promised right well.But, ah I Don Montilla now haunted her sight,And in forms superhuman was seen ;So stern was his visage, so great was his might,That the fair Isidora beheld with affright,This monster of magical mein..fbtd s’ii aovo toft I. r, t fr> ,7 j«aTHe governed his bandits with absolute sway,At his bidding each man drew his sword;W hen a victim he saw, he would bear him away,And the Powers of Darkness were bound to obey—Not a Deamon disputed his word.- -—....     J23/.His belov’d Isidora resolv’d be to gain.And he forc’d her to swear with ah oath,That his bride she’d become—yet her oath was invain, EliinoM fo e>df iulAnd she liv’d an example of sorrow andpain,While happiness frown’d on them both.Montilla in fury would often repairthe palace, demanding her hand;But she shrunk back with horror, and sunk indespair,When, uplifted, she saw his arm wither’d andbare,And refused to obey his command.“ Oh! now is the moment of darkness,” hecried,While the century’s last midnight bellToll'd mournfully solemn—“ Ah! here is mybride,”Montilla exclaim’d — as she stood by hisside—Let’s away to the portals of hell.24Then,'4 grasping- his poniard, he aim’d a fellblow,At young Juan, who shook with affright;But the power of Montilla was over—and lo!, He was borne to the regions of darknessbelow,And vanish’d in flames from their sight.