LL&THOMAS HICKATHRIFT/a.JUT«EHISTORYOFThomas Hickathrift,He that does buy this little Book,Observe what you in it do look,When you have read it, then may say.Your money is not thrown away.CHAP. I.Of his Birth, Parentage, and Education.In the reign before William theconqueror, I have heard in ancient his¬tory that there dwelt a man in theparish of the Isle of Ely, in the coum4ty of Cambsidge, whose name wasThomas Hickathrift, a poor man anda day labourer, yet he was a verystout man, and able to perform twodays work instead of one : He havingone son, and no more children in theworld, he called him by his own name,Thomas Hickathrift, This old manput his son to good learning, but hewould take none, for he was as we callthem in this age, none of the wisestsort, but something less, and had nodocility at all in him.His father being soon called out ofthe world, his mother was tender ofhim, maintained him by her hand-la¬bour as well as she could; he beingslothful, and not willing to work toget a penny for his living, but all hisdelight was to be in the chimney cor¬ner, and would eat as much at onelime as would serve four or five men;for he was in height, when he was5but ten years of age, about eight feetand in thickness five feet, and hishand was like unto a shoulder of mut¬ton ; and in all his parts from topto toe, he was like unto a monster,and yet his great strength was notknown.CHAP. 11How Thomas Hickathri/t Strengthcame to be known.The first time that his strengthwas known, was by his mother goingto a rich farmer’s house (she being buta poor woman) to desire a buttle ofstraw to shift herself and her sonThomas. The farmer being a veryhonest, charitable man, bid her takewhat she would. She going home toher son Tom, said, I pray go to sucha place and fetch me a buttle of straw,I have asked him leave. He sworeiie would not go: nay, pray thee, l omgo, said his old mother. He sworeagain he would not go, unless shewould barrow him a cart rope. Shebeing willing to please him, wentand borrowed him a cart rope to hisdesire.He taking it went his way ; comingto the farmer’s house, the master wasin the barn, and two men threshing.Said Tom, I am come for a buttle ofstraw. Tom, said the master, take asmuch as thou canst carry. He laiddown the cart rope, and began to makehis buttle; said they, Tom thy ropeis to short, and jeer’d poor Tom, buthe fitted the man well for it: for hemade his buttle, and when he had fin¬ished it, there was supposed to be aload of straw in it, of two thousandweight. Said they, what a great foolart thou, thou canst not carry thetenth of it? Tom took the buttle and7flung it over his shoulder, and madsno more of it than we do of an hundredweight, to the great admiration of mas¬ter and men.Tom Hickathrift’s strength beingthen known in the town, they wouldno longer let him lie baking by thefire in the chimney corner, every onewould be hiring him to work; theyseeing him to have so much strength,told him that it was a shame for himto live such a lazy course of life, andto lie idle day after day, as he did.Tom seeing them bait him in ?.manner as they did, went first to onework then to another; but at lengthcame a man who would hire him togo to the wood; for he had a tree tobring home, and he would contenthim. Tom went with him, and hitook with him four men besides; butwhen they came to the wood, they setthe cart on the tree, and began tobdraw it up with p allies; Tom seeingthem not able to stir it, said, stand a-Way, ye fools, then takes it up and setsIt on one end, and lays it on the cart;Now, says he, see what a man can do.Merry is it true, said they. Whenthey had done, as they came throughthe wood they met the wood-man,Tom asked him for a stick to make hismother a fire with. Aye, says thewood-man, take one that thou canstcarry. Tom espyed a tree bigger thanthe one that was in the cart, and laysit on his shoulder, and goes home withit as fast as the cart and six horsescould draw it. This was the secondtime that Tom’s strength was known.When Tom began to know that hehad more strength than twenty men,he then began to be merry and verytractable, and would run, or jump,took great delight to be amongst com-Ji9pany, and to go to fairs and meetingsto see sports and pastimesGoing to a feast, the young menwere all met, some to cudgels, someto wrestling, some throwing the ham¬mer and the like; Tom stood a whileto see the sport, and at last goes tothem that were throwing the hammer;and standing a little to see their man¬like sport, at last he takes the hammerin his hand to feel the weight of it, andhid them stand out of the way, for hewould throw it as far as he could. Aye,said the smith and jeered poor Tom,you’ll throw it a great way I’ll warrantyou; Tom took the hammer in his handand flung it; and their was a riverabout five or six furlongs off, and flungit into that : When he had done, hehid the smith fetch the hammer again,and laughed the smith to scorn.When Tom had done this exploit,he would go to wrestling, tho’ he had10iiu more skill of it than an ass, but whathe had by strength; yet he flung all thatcame to oppose him, for if once he laidhold of them, they were gone. Somehe would throw over his head, some hewould lay down silly, and how hepleased; he would not like to strike attheir heels, but flung them two or threeyards from him, ready to break theirnecks asunder; so that none at lastdurst go into the ring to wrestle withhim, for they took him to be some devilthat was come among them ; so Tom’sfame soon spread more and more inthe country.CHAP. III.How Tom come to be a Brewers man ;and how he came to kill a Giant, andat last was Mr Hickathrift.Tom’s fame being spread abroadboth far and uear, there was not a11man durst give him an angry wordfor he was something fool-hardy, anddid not care what he did unto them ;so that all them who knew him wouldnot in the least displease him. Atlength there was a Brewer at Lvnn,who wanted a good lusty man to carryhis beer to the marsh, and to Wisbech;hearing of Tom, went to hire him, butTom seemed coy, and would not behis man, until his mother and friendspersuaded him, and his master intreatedhim; likewise promised him that heshould have a new suit of clothes andevery thing answerable from top totoe; besides he should eat and drinkof the best. Tom at last yielded to behis man, and his master told him howfar he must go ; for you must under¬stand there was a monstrous giant,who kept some part of the marsh, anddurst not go that way : for if they did,be would keep them, or kill them; or12else he would make bond slaves ofthem.But to come to Tom and his mas¬ter, he did more work in one day, thanall his men could do in three; so thathis master seeing him very tractable,and to look so well after his business,made him his head man to go into themarsh, to carry beer by himself, for heneeded no man with him. Tom wentevery day in the week to Wisbech,which was a very good journey, andit was twenty miles the road way.Tom going so long that wearisomejourney and finding that way whichthe giant kept was nearer by half, andTom before by being so well kept, anddrinking so much strong ale as he did ;one day he was going to Wisbech, andwithout saying any thing to his mas¬ter, or to any of his fellow servants,he was resolved to take the nearest wayto the wood ; or lose bis life to win the13horse, or lose the saddle, to kill or hekilled, if he met with the giant; andwith this resolution he goes the near¬est way with his cart and horses to goto Wisbech, but the giant perceivinghim, and seeing him to be so bold,thought to prevent him, and came in¬tending to take his cart from him.The giant met Tom like a lion, asthought he would have swallowed himup at a mouthful; Sirrah, says he, whogave you authority to come this way ?Do you not know that I make all standin fear of my sight, and you like animpudent rogue must come and flingopen my gates at your pleasure ! Howdare you presume to do this ? Are youso careless of your life ? I will makethee an example for all rogues underthe sun ; dost thou not care what thoudost; And do you not see how manyheads hang upon yonder tree that haveoffended me ! But thy head shall hang14higher than all the rest for an exam pie.Tom made answer, A turd in yourteeth for your news, for you shall notfind me like one of them. No, saidthe giant, why ? Thou art but a foolif thou comest to fight with such a oneas 1 am, and bring no weapon to de¬fend thyself withal. Said Tom, I havea weapon here will make you under¬stand you are a traitorily rogue. Ayesirrah said the Giant, and took thatword in high disdain, that Tom shouldcall him a traitorily rogue, and withthat he ran into his cave to fetch hisclub, intending to dash out Tom’sbrains at the first blow.Tom knew not what to do for a wea¬pon, for he knew his whip would dobut little good against such a monstrousbeast as he was, for lie was in heightabout twelve feet, and six feet aboutthe waist; but while the Giant wentfor his club, Tom bethought lw*mselfoi15two very good weapons, for he makesno more ado, but takes out the axle-tree, and a wheel for his shield andbuckler; and very good weapons theywere, especially in time of need.The Giant coming out again, beganto stare at Tom, to see him take thewheel in one hand and axle-tree inthe other to defend himself with. O !said the Giant, you are like to do greatservice with these weapons; I havehere a twig that will beat thee and thywheel and axle-tree to the ground ;that which the Giant called a twig wasas thick as some mill-posts are, butTom was not daunted for all his bigand threatening speeches, for he sawperfectly there was no way except one,which was, to kill or be killed; so theGiant made at Tom with such a vehe-! ment force, that he made Tom’s wheelcrack again, and Tom lent the Giant asgood, for he gave him such a weighty16blow on the side ofhis head, that macthe Giant reel again. What, said Toare you drunk with my strong bealready.The Giant recovering laid on Toimost sad blows ; but still as they camTom kept them off with his wheel, sthat he had no hurt at all : In shorTom plied his work so well, and laisuch huge blows on the Giant, thasweat and blood together ran down hiface and being fat and foggy, wit:lighting so long, he was almost tire<out, and asked Tom to let him drin]a little water, and then he would fighwith him again. No, said Tom, mjmother did not teach me that wit; wh<would be the fool then? Tom findin<the Giant began to weary, and that hefailed in his blows, thought it was bestto make hay while the sun did shine,for he laid on so fast as thouoh he wasomad, till he brought the Giant do17to the ground. The Giant seeing him¬self down, and Tom laying so hard onhim, made him roar in a most lament¬able manner, and prayed for him not totake away his life, and he would do :.nything for him, and yield himself to himand he his servant; but Tom havingno more mercy on him than a dog orbear, laid still at the Giant, ’till helaid him for dead and when he haddone he cut off his head and went intothe cave, where he found a great storeof silver and gold which made hisheart to leap.Now having done this action, killingthe Giant he put his cart togetheragain, loaded it and drove it to Wisbechand delivered his beer; and cominghome to his master, he told it to him ;his master was so overjoyed at thenews, that he would not believe himtill he had seen; and getting up thenext day, lie and his master went tosee if he spoke truth or not togetherwith most of the town of Lynn. Whenthey came to the place and found theGiant dead, he then shewed the placewhere his head was, and what silverand gold there was in the cave, all ofthem leaped for joy, lor this monsterwas a great enemy to all the country.This news was spread all up anddown the country how Tom Hickathrifthad killed the Giant, and wTell was hethat could run or go to see the Giantand the cave ; then all the folks madebonfires for joy; and Tom wras a bet¬ter respected man than before.Tom took possession of the giant’scave by consent of the whole company,,and every one said he was deserving Itwice as much more; Tom pulleddown the cave, built him a fine housewhere the cave stood ; and the groundthat the giant kept by force midstrength, some’of which ho gave to the/i poor for their common, the rest hemade pastures of and divided the mostj part into tillage, to maintain him andhis mother, Jane Hickathrift.Tom’s fame was spread both far andnear through the country ; and it was; no longer Tom, but Mr. Hickathrift;t so that he was now the chiefest manamong them; for the people feared1 Tom’s anger as much as they did thegiant before. Tom kept men and maidservants, and lived most bravely; hemade a park to keep deer in ; near tohis house he built a church and gavej it the name of St. James’s church, be-j cause he killed the giant on that day,which is so called to this hour; He: did many more good deeds, and becameI a public benefactor to all persons that! lived near him.CHAP. IV.How Tom kept a pack of Hounds: HisKicking a Foot-ball quite away; Alsohow he had like to have been robbed byFour Thieves, and how he Escaped.TOM having got so much money20about him, and not being used to it;could hardly tell how to dispose of it,but yet he did use means to do it; forhe kept a pack of hounds, and men tohunt with him; and who but Tomthen. So he took such delight in sports,that he would go far and near to meet-ings, as cudgel-play, bear-baiting, foot¬ball, and the like.Now Tom was riding one day, helighted off his horse to see the sport,for they were playing for a wager;Tom was a stranger and none did knowhim there ; but Tom soon spoiled theirsport; for lie meeting the foot-ball, tookit such a kick that they never foundtheir ball more; they could see it fly,but whither none could tell; they allwondered at it, and began to quarrelwith Tom, but some of them got no¬thing by it, for Tom got a spar whichbelonged to a house that was blowndown, and all that stood in his way heknocked down, so that all the countrywas up in arms to take 'Tom, but allin vain, for he manfully made naywherever he came.21When he was going from them, andturning homewards, he chanced tosomewhat late in the evening; one road, he met four stout lusty roguesat had been robbing passengers thatij, and none could escape them, forey robbed all they met with, both:h and poor. They thought wheney met with Tom he would be aod prize for them, perceiving that heas alone, made cocksure of his mon-, but they were mistaken for he gotprize of them. Whereupon meetingith him, they bid him stand and de-•er. What, shall I deliver?said Tom,our money, sirrah, said they. But,id Tom, vou will give me betterords for it, and you must be bettermed. Come, come, said they, we do>t come here to prate, but we comer money, and money we will have,efore you stir from this place. Aye,id Tom, is it so, nay then get it, andke it.: So one of them made at him, but heesently disarmed him, and took aways sword, which was made of good22trusty steel, and smote so hard at tinothers, that they began to put spurs tctheir horses and begone, but he sooistayed their journey, for one of themhaving a portmanteau behindhim Tornsupposing there was money in it,fought with a great deal more couragethan before, till at last he killed two oiithe four, and the other two he wound¬ed very sore, so that they cried out forquarter, and with much ado he gavethem their lives, but took all theirmoney, which was about two hundredpounds, to bear his expenses home.Now when Tom came home, he toldthem how he had served the four high¬waymen, which caused a laughter fromhis old mother, then refreshing him-,self, went to see how all things were,and what his men had done since hewent from home.'['hen going up into his forest, hewalked up and down, and at last metwith a lusty Tinker, that had a goodstaff on his shoulder, and a great dogto carry his leather bag and tools towork. Tom asked the tinker whence23lie came and whither lie was going forthat was no highway. But the tinkeraeing a sturdy fellow, bid him goook, what was that to him, for fools'Vould be meddling. No, says Tom,jut I’ll make you know before youtnd I part, it is to me. Aye, sayshe tinker, I have been these three'ears and have had no combat withny man, and none durst make menswer; I think they be all cowards inhis country except it be a man called1om Hickathrift who killed a giant,ini I would fain see to have a cont-at with him. Aye, said Tom, bmlethinks I might be master in youriouth; I am the man, what have youb say to me? Why, said the tinker,terily I am glad we have met so hap-ily together, that we may liave one■: ngle combat. Sure, said Tom, youo but jest. Merry, said the tinker,mn in earnest. A match, said Tom,ill you give me leave to get a twig,.ye, says the tinker, I scorn to fightman unarmed.Tom steps to the gate, and takes one24of the rails for his staff; so they fell towork, the Tinker at Tom, and Tom atthe Tinker, like unto two giants theylaid the one on the other. The Tinkerhad on a leather coat, and at everyblow Tom gave the Tinker, Iris comcracked again, yet the Tinker did notgive way to Tom an inch; But Tomgave the Tinker a blow on the side ofthe head, which felled the Tinker Ugthe ground. Now, Tinker, where areyou now,said Tom.But the Tinker being a man of met¬tle, leaped up again, and gave Tom a -;blow which made him reel again, andfollowed his blows, and then took Tomon the other side which made his neckcrack again. Tom flung down the'weapon, and yielded the Tinker to hethe best man, and took him home to:his house where f shall leave Tom andthe Tinker till they be recovered oftheir many wounds and bruises; which;relation is more enlarged in, as youmay read in the second part of fho-mas ITickathrift.FINIS. _ 1