XSOOSXXThe Story-Teller.GEORGE DOBSON’SGeorge \ra* part proprietor ant! driver of a hackney-co*u;!i in Edinburgh, when such vehicles were scarce;and one day there comes • gentleman to him whom heknew, and says ;—1 George, yoo must drive me and nayson here out to a certain place,’ that he named, some¬where in the vicinity of Edinburgh.—‘ Sir,' says George‘ I never heard tell of *ach a place, and I cannot driveyou unless you give me Very particular directions.’‘ It is false,’ returned the gentleman, ‘ there is no manin Scotland who knows the road to that place betterthan you do. You have never driven on any other roadall year lifa, and i insist on your taking us.’4 Very well, Sir,’ says George, 4 I’ll ddve you ts hellif you have a mind, only you are to direct me on theroad.’4 Mount end drive on then,’ said the other, ‘ and nofear of the road!’Georg* did so, and never in bis life did he see hishorses go at such a noble rate; they snorted, theypranced, and they flew on; and as the who!* road ap¬peared to lie down hill, he deemed that he should sooncome to his j*urney‘g end, Still he drove on at thetame rate, far far down tho bill,—and so fine an openroad he never travelled,^.til! by degrees it grew so darkthat he could not see to drive any farther. He calledto the gentleman, inquiring what he should do ; who4answered, that this was the place they were bound to,so he might draw up, dismiss them, and return. He didso, alighted from the dickie, wondered at his foaminghorses, and forthwith opened the coach door, held theaim of his hat with the one hand, and with the other de¬manded his fare.‘ You have driven us in fine style, George,* said theelder gentleman, • and deserve to be remembered ; but itis needless for us to settle just now, as you must meetus here again to-morrow precisely at twelve o’clock.'' Very well, Sir,’ says George, ‘ there is likewise anold account, you know, and some toll-money {' whichindeed there was.<1 perceived no tolls to day, your honour,’ saidGeorge.1 But I perceived one, and not very far back neither,which I suspect you will have difficclty in repassingwithout a regular ticket. What a pity I have no changeon me,'1 I never saw it otherwise with your honour,’ saidGeorge jocularly; ‘ what a pity it is you should alwayssufl'er yourself to run short of change.’‘ I will give you that which is as good, George,' saidthe gantleman; and be gave him a ticket written withred ink, which the honest ceachman could not read. He,however, put it into his slaavo. and inquired of his em¬ployer where that cama toll was which he had not eb-served, and how it was they did not ask the tell fromhim as he came through? The gentlemen replied, byinforming George that there was no road out of thatdomain* and whosoever entered it must either remain init, or return by the same path; so they never asked anytoll till the person’s return, when they were at time*■ • ~««>,v;nns • hut that, ticket would answer his turn,5.A.nd ha then asked George if he did not perceive a gatewith a number of men in black standing about if‘ Oho I is yon the spot ?‘ says George; Then I assureyour honour, yon is no toll gate, but a private entranceinto a great man’s mansion; for do not I know two orthree of yon to be gentlemen of the law, whom 1 havedriven often and often; and as good fellows they aretoo, as any I knaw—men who never let themselves runshort of change. Good day,-—Twelve o’clock to¬morrow ?‘ Yes, twelve o'ck-e-k nocn, precisely and with thatGeorge's employers vanished ia tho glsom, and left himto wind his way out of that dreary labyrinth the bestway hs could. He found it no easy matter, for hislamps were not lighted, end be could net see an ell be¬fore him—he could not ever perc-ive his horses ears ;and what was worse, there was a rnsbing sound, likethat of a town on fire, all around him, that stunned hissenses, so that he could not tell whether his horses weremoving or standing still. George was in the greatestdistress imaginable, and was glad when ha perceived thegate before him, rrith his two identical friends of the lawstill standing. George drove boldly up, accosted themby their n^mes, end asked what they were doiug there ;but thsy made him no answer, but pointed to the gateand the keeper. George was terrified to look at thislatter personage, who now came up and seized his horse*by the reins, refusing to let him pass. In order to in¬troduce himself in some degree to this austere toll-man,George asked him, in a jecular manner, how he came toemploy his two eminent friends as assistant gate-keepers ?‘ Because they are among the last comers,' replied theruffian, churbshlv < Vnn ™/ill v>» nn assistant here to-^ ‘I‘U be dcmned if I do then—that I will.4' Yes, you‘11 be damned if you do—that you will.4‘ Let my horses go in the weantiure, then, Sir, that Imay proceed on my journey.‘‘ Nsy.‘‘ Nay ?—Dare you say nay to me, Sir ? My name isGeorge Dobson, of the Pleasance. Edinburgh, coachdriver, and coach proprietor too; and 1‘11 see tb» face ofthe man dan ed who will say nay to me, as long as Ican pay ray way. $ hav* his majesty's licence, and I‘llgo and come as I choose—and that I will. Let go myhorses there, and eayr what is your demand.4‘ Well, then, Ml let your horses go, said the keeper;4 but I’ll kesp ymurself for a pledge.' And with that helet go the horses, and seized honest George by the throas,who struggled in raiu to disengage himself, and cursed,swore, and threatened, by his own confession, mostbloodily. Hi# horses flew off like the wind, so swiftthat the coach was flying io the air, and scarcely touch¬ing on the earth once in a quarter of a mile, Georgewas in furious wrath, for he sew that his grand coach antiharness would all be brokea to pieces, aed his gallant pairof horses maimed or destroyed ; and how vvat his family'sbread to be won!—He struggled, swore, threatened, andprayed in vain ;—the intolerable toll-man was deaf to allremonstrances. He once more appealed to his two gen¬teel acquaintances of the law, reminding them how hehad of late driven them to Roslin on a Sunday, alongwith two ladies, who, he supposed, were their sisters,from their familiarity, wheu not another coachman in— ..i/i nvcri'Tt. Pnt the gentlemen, veryfI and again he asked the hideout tail-man what right hi1 had to detain him, and whet were his charges.‘ What right have 1 to detain you, Sir, say you ? Whoi> are you that makes such a demand here? Do you kno*(j where you are, Sir ?‘‘ No, faith, I do not,* returned George ; ‘ I wish I didBut I shall know, 8ad make you repeat your insolenceP too. My name, I told yon, is George Dobson, licensedi coach-hirer in Edinburgh, Pleasance; and to get fullj redress of you for this unlawful interruptioa, Fonly d&-J sire to know where I am.’i ‘ Then, Sir, if it can gire you so much satisfaction toi| know where you are.’ eaid the keeper with a maliciousgrin, ‘ you shall know, and you may tike instruments bythe hands of your two friends the.r«, instituting a legs!prosecution. Your redress, you may he assured, will h«mas . ample, when I inform you that you are in Hell, andout of this gate you return no more.*This was tather a damper to George, and he began tojl to perceive that nothing would he gained in such a place(by the strong hand, »o he addressed the inexorabletoll man, whom ba now dreaded more than ever, in the| following terms.—' But I must go home, at all events,1 you know, Sir, to unyoke my two horses, and put themi up, and to inform Cbirsty HaMiday, my wife, of my eti-I gagement. And bless me, I never recollected till thts| moment, that I am engaged to be back here to ssorrow| at twelve o’clock, and see here is a free ticket for myI passage this way.*The keeper took the ticket with one hand, but still;] held George with the other. ‘Oho! ware you in "with1. nur honourable friend, Mr II. of L ?• said Ijc. He ha*8engagement is this;—Yon, by this instrument, engageyour soul, that you will return here by to-morrow ateooii.‘‘ Catch me there, billy,* says George, ‘ I’ll engage no•uch thing, depend on it;—that I will not.** Then remain where you are,* said the keeper, ' forthere is no other alternative. We like best for peopleto come here in their ewn way, in the way of their busi¬ness;* and with that he flung George backward, heels*over head down hill, and closed the gate.George, flnding all remonstrance vain, and being de*sirous once more to see the open day, and breathe thefresh air, and likewise to see Chirsty Haliiday, his wife,and set his house and stable in some order, came upagain, and in utter desperation, signed the bond, and wassuffered to depart. He then bounded away on the trackof bis horses, with mare than ordinary swiftness, in hopesto overtake them; and always now and than altered aloud wo 1 in hopes they might hear and obey, though hecoiild not come in sight of them. But George's griefwas but beginning, for Ct a well-known and dangerou*spot, where there was a tan-yard on the one hand, and aquarry on the other, he came to his gallant steeds over¬turned, the coach smashed to pieces, Dawtie with two ofher legs broken, and Duncan dead. This was more thanthe worthy coachasan could beer, and many degrees worsethan being in hell. There his pride and manly spirit borehim up against the worst of treatment; but here his heartentirely failed him, end he laid himself down, with hisface on his two hands, and wept bitterly, bewailing, inthe most deplorable terms his two gallant horses, Dawtieand Duncan.i~;— -- *t.:~ state, behold ih<im9; i well-known voice said to him, ‘ Geordie! what is theimatter wi‘ ye, Geordie ?‘ George was provoked beyond| measure at the insolence of the question, for he knew the'voice to be that of Chirsty Halliday, his wife, ‘ I think yeineedna ask that, seeing what ye see,1 said George, ‘ O myBpoor Dawtie, where ars a’ your jinkings asd praneinganow, your moopings and your wincing* ? I’ll ne‘er bea proud man again—bereaved o‘ my bonny pair.'‘ Get up, George; get np, and bestir yourself,* saidChirsty Hallidiy, his wife. ‘ You are wanted directly, tobring in the Lord President to ths Parliament House. It! is a gr»at storm, and he must ha there by nine o’clock,—'Get up—rouse yourself, and make ready—his servant i«1 waiting for you.** Woman, you are demented !’ cried George. ^ Howmean 1 go and bring in the Lord President, when my coachIis broken in pieces, my poor Dawtie lying with twa of herlegs broken, and Duncan dead ? And, moreover, I havea previous engagement, for I am obliged to be in in hellI before twelve o’clock.’Chirsty Halliday now laughed outright, and continuedlong in a Ct of laughter, but George never moved hisbead from the pillow, but lay and groaned, for in fact, hewas all the while lying snug in his bed ; while the tem¬pest without w as roaring with great violence, and whichcircumstance may perhaps account for the rushing anddeafening sound which astounded him so much in hell,Bnt so deeply was he impressed with the realities of hisdream that he would do nothing but lie and moan, per¬sisting and believing in the truth of all he had seep. Hiswife now went and informed her neighbours of her hus¬bands plight, and of his singular engagement with Mr R.of L. at twelve o clock. She persuaded one friend to har-ness the horses, and go for the Lord President; but all the10rest laughed immoderately at poor coachy’s predicament.It was, however, no laughing to him; he never raised hishead and his wife becoming at last uneasy about his fren¬zied state of mind, made him repeat every eircumstance ofhis adventure to her, (for he would never believe or admitthat it was a dream,) which he did in the terms above nar¬rated; and she perceived, or dreaded, that he was becomingfeverish. She went over and told Dr. Wood of her hus¬band’s malady, and of his solemn engagement to be in hellat twelve o’clock.‘ He inaunna keep it, dearie. He maunna keep that en¬gagement at no rate,” said Dr Wood. ‘Set back the clockan hour or twa, to drive him past the time, and I’ll ca’ inthe course of my round you sure he hasna been drink¬ing hard ?’ She assured him he had not. • Weel, weel, yemaun tell him that he inaunna keep that engagement at norate. Set back the clock and I'll come and see him. It isa frenzy that maunna be trifled with Ye maunna laughat it, dearie—maunaa laugh at it. Maybe a nervish fever,wha kens,"The doctor and Chirsty left the house together, and astheir road lay the same way for a space, she fell a-tellinghim of the two young lawyers whom George saw standingat the gate of hell, and whom the porter had described astwo of the last comers. When the doctor heard this, hestaid his hurried stooping pace in one moment, turned fullround on tbe woman, and fixing his eyes on her that gleamedwith a deep unstable lustre, he said, ‘ What’s that ye weresaying, dearie ? What’s that ye were saying ? Repeat itagain to me every word.’ She did so. On whieh the doc¬tor held up his hands, as if palsied with astonishment, anduttered some ferveit ejaculations. ‘ HI go with youstraight," said he, ‘ before I visit another patient. This iswonderful! It is terrible ! The young gentlemen are bothat rest—both lying corpses at this time !—fine young men—1 attended them bc-‘h—died of the same exterminatingdisease.—Oh this is wonderful : this is wonderful!’The doctor kept Chirsty half running all the way downthe High Street and St. Mary‘s Wynd, at such a pace didhe walk, never lifting his eyes from the pavement, but al¬ways exclaiming now and then, ‘ It is wonderful’! mostwonderfu’ !’ At length, prompted by woman’s natura!curiosity, she inquired at the doctor if he knew anythingof their friend Mr R. of L. ? Rut he shook his head, andreplied, ‘ Na, na, dearie,—ken naething about him. Heand his son are baith in London,—ken naething about him -but the tither is awfu’—it is perfectly awfu’!’When DrWood reached his patient, he found him very,low, but only a little feverish, so he made all haste to washhis head with vinegar and cold water, and then ho coveredthe crown with a treacle plaster, and made the same appli¬cation to the solas of his feet, awaiting the issue. Georo'erevived a little, when the doctor tried to cheer him up byjoking him about his dream; but on mention of that hegroaned, and shook his head. c So you are convinceddearie, that it is nae dream ?’ said the doctor.‘ Dear Sir, how could it be a dream ?’ said the patient.' I was there in person with Mr It. and his son; and seehere are the marks of the porter’s fingers on my throat."Dr Wood looked, and distinctly saw two or three red spotson one side of his throat, which confounded him not a little.‘ I assure you, Sir,’ continued George, ‘ it was no dream*which I know to my sad experience. I have lost my coachand horses, and what more have I ?—signed the bond withmy own hand, and in person entered into the most solemnand terrible engagement.’‘ But ye’re no to keep it, 1 tell ye,’ said Dr Wood. Ye’reto keep it at no rate. It is a sin to enter into a compact withe deil, but it is a far greater ane to keep it. Sae let MrR. and his son bide where they are yonder, for ye sannaetir a foot to bring them out to-day.’‘ Oh, oh ! doctor!’ groaned the poor fellow, * this is not athing to be made a jest o’! I feel that it is an engagementI cannot break. Go 1 must, and that very shortly. Yes,12yea, go 1 must, and go 1 shall, though ] should borrowDavid Barclay’s pair.’ With that he turned his facetowards.the wall, groaned deeply, and fell into a lethargy,while Dr Wood caused them to let him alone, thinking ifhe would sleep out the appointed time, which was at hand,he would be safe ; but all the time he kept feeling his pulse,and by degrees showed symptoms of uneasiness. The wiferan for a clergyman of famed abilities, to pray and conversewith her husband, in hopes by that means to bring him tohis senses ; but after his arrival, George never spoke more,save calling to his horses ,as if encouraging them to run withgreat speed, and thus in imagination driving at full careerinto hell, he went off in a paroxysm after a terrible strug¬gle precisely within a few minutes of twelve o’clock.What made this singular professional dream the more re¬markable and unique in ali its parts, was not known at thetime of George's death. It was a 'terrible storm on thenight of the dream, ashas been already* mentioned, and dur¬ing the time of the hurricane, a London smack went downoff Wearmouth about, three in the morning. Among thesufferers were the Hon. Mr R. of L. and his son. Georgscould not know aught of this at break of day, for it was notknown in Scotland till the day of his interment: and as lit¬tle knew he of the deaths of the two young lawyers, whoboth died the evening before—Etp.ick ‘ Shephfrd.