THEI LIFE AND ADVENTURESO FSIR WILLIAM WALLACE,ENERAL and GOVERNOR of SCOTLAND..CONTAINING,. particular Account of his moft remarkableBattles' with King Edward (Longlhanks);And of his mournful Fate at London, afteril he was betrayed into the Hands of thei| Englifh: Where he was put to Death, andi:l his Body quartered, and fent to differentt Towns in Scotland.WITHjn Account of the Battle of Bannockburn,which was fought June 24th, 1314.PRINTED BY J, & M. ROBERTSON,Saltmarket, 1801.T H E.HISTORY OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE."’HE hiftory of Sir William Wallace, with theother of the valiant King Robert Bruce, whichfolloweth upon the end of it, and of which this is an a-bridgement, was written in Latin by Mr. John Blair, chap¬lain to Wallace, and turned into Scots metre by one call¬ed Blind Harry, in the days of King James IV. and thehiftory of Bruce was written by Mr. John Barbour, arch¬dean of Aberdeen, a learned man, in the days of K. Da¬vid Bruce and Robert Stewart, and both together contaida relation of the moft famous war that ever fell out in theifle of Britain, fought moft valiantly for the fpace of 4cyears, between the two realms of Scotland ar\d England;the one unjuftly purfuing, the other conftantly defending^the liberties of their country. During which broils, therelhappened great alterations, both in the general ftate offthis kingdom, and in the overthrow and advancement otparticular families, the one for betraying, the other foimaintaining their country’s freedom ami welfare.That the whole hiftory may be more clear, we havethought good, in a ftiort introduction, to fet down the caufes, occafions, and the moft memorable paffages of this warIn the year 12*15, Alexander the Hid. King of Scotland, being fuddenly taken away by a fall from his horfeat Kinghorn, without any-iflue of his body, and in hi®the whole pofterity of his father Alexander the II. ant;grandfather William the Lyon, being extinCt, the righof the crown fell to the heirs of David earl of Huntingtorand Garioch, youngeft brother to William the Lyon, Hihad left three daughters, the eldeft Margaret, married toAllan Lord of Galloway; fheJecond, Ifabel, to RoberBruce, (firnamed the noble,) Lord of Annandale antCleveland: the youngeft, Ada, married Henry Haftingsan Englifhman ; who having no juft title to the crownjlthe contention retted betwixt the pofterity of the two eldeldaughters; for Allan, Lord of Galloway, leaving no fontby his wife Margaret; his eldeft daughter Dornagilla aGalloway, married John Baliol, a man of great power an jlands both in Scotland, England and France, and bare thim John Baliol afterwards King. Robert Bruce, by hwife Ifabel of Huntington, had Robert Bruce, who camto be earl of Garrick, by marrying Martha, heritrix therrTHE HISTORY OF, &c. 3: of, ami who contended with John Baliol, and died in theI tifne of Wallace’s wars. His eldeft fon, Robert Bruce,j fucceeded King of Scotland.Dornagilla of Galloway claimed the crown, as heir to| Margaret, eldeft daughter to prince David. Robert Bruce,1 earl of Carrick, albiet fon to Ifabel the fecond daughter,; yet. contended that, in feudal fucceflion, the firft male oughtj to fucceed before a woman Handing in the fame degree, as1 a fon excludeth his filler from fucceffion, altho’ (he be el-1 der: and therefore he and Dornagilla of Galloway, (land¬ing in the fecond degree from prince David, he ought1 to be preferred to her: as for her fon, John Baliol, he1 could claim no right but by her, and likewife was a de-1 gree further off from prince David. The like practice hadfallen out fome id years before, in Hugh the fourth duke■ of Buigmidy, whole eldeft fon Hugh, (dying before hitiI father) left a daughter, Jola, countefs of NeverS, who1 claimed to fucceed her grandfather Hugh IV. Notwith-1 Handing Robert, fecond fon to the fame Hugh IV. wasl preferred to her, and fucceeded the duke of Burgundy: ifl then the fecond foa, in feudal inheritance, fucceed beforeI the eldeft fon’s daughter, far more ought the nephew toI fucceed before the niece. The right of fucceflion being thusl madedoubtful, the competitors were fo powerful, that theyI drew the greateft part of the kingdom into two equal fac-t tions; fo that it feemed impoflible to fettle the controver-( fy at home, without running into a pernicious civil war.The dates of Scotland, to prevent this mifehief, thoughtf; it fitted to fubmit the arbitrament of the plea to EdwardI. firnamed Long Shanks, king of England, and that up-p on divers weighty reafons: for he and his father K. HenryI hi. being joined by many alliances, of bands and friend-t ihip to the two laft kings of Scotland, had lived in great| amity and concord with them, receiving and interchang-; ing many favours and kind duties. The two competitorsJ alfo, Bruce and Baliol, had as great lands in England as in1 Scotland, fo that he, and he only, wa« able to make them(land to reafon. Finally, the dates of Scotland not beingI able to determine the plea, there was ao prince befidesI more powerful, and, in appearance, more like to compofc1 the controverfy, without great blood-ihed. This motionwas i» fecret very greedily embraced by K. Edward, hop¬ing, in fo troublefome a water, to find a gainful fiftiing4 THE HISTORY OFeither by drawing the kingdom of Scotland under the di-yeft fubjeftion, or at leaft under his homage, as lord para¬mount and fuperior: Confidering the difficulty to deter- ,mine the queftion at home, and the intereft he had in bothparties, being (for a great part of their eftatea) hia vafialsand fubje&a: his great power alCo, having, befides Ireland,a great part of France under his dominion, and the lowcountries his affuted confederates, gave him great encour¬agement; neither wanted he great friendffiip in Scotland, 1having at that time, many of the greateft noblemen in Scot¬land, vaffals and feudaries to himfelf for many lands whichthey held in England, partly for great fervices done tohimfelf and his father, partly lying within Northumber¬land, and the border fhires, then held by the Scots in feeof England : Partly alfo by interchange of marriage andfucceffions between the two nations, which for a long timehad lived in great amity, as if it had been one kingdom.And to make the controverfy more fearful, he ftirred upother 8 competitors befides Bruce and Baliol, Florenceearl of Holland (defcended of Ada) After to William theLyon; Patrick Dunbar earl of March; Sir Walter Rofs;Sir Nicholas Soules; Sir Roger Mandeville ; Sir JohnCumming of Badenoch, (thefe five were defcended ofyounger daughters of Allan,, lord of Galloway) Sir Wil¬liam Vifcie, begotten upon king Alexander lid's baitarddaughter, but pretending to be legitimate ; and JohnHauings lord Abergaveny, defcended of Ada, youngeftdaughter to prince David Huntington.Edward, having thus prepared matters, came to Berwick,and met with the ftates of Scotland, to whom he promif-cd to decide the controverfy according to equity; and thatit might feem more likely, he brought from France fundryof the molt famous lawyers of that age; he chofe alfo outof the ftates of Scotland affembled, twelve of the wifelland moll honourable, to whom he joined the like numberof Engliffi, as afleffors to him in his arbitrament. At themeeting, by the doubtful anfwers of lawyers, and the num¬ber of new precedents, he made the matter more difficult,and appointed a new convention at Norham, on the bor¬der, in the year following.Difficulties thus increafing, and the earl of Holland ha- •ving on foot a great army, to ^ake the crown of Scotlandby force, (which their own ftories affirm, to have landedSIR WILLIAM WALLACE. 5in Scotland, and to have intercepted fome ftrengths) at( the meeting'of Norham, king Edward dealt fecretly, andby fit agents, with the dates of Scotland, for fluinningimminent dangers, to become his fnbje&s; he, being de¬fended of King David’s filler, and fo but two degreesfurther from the crown of Scotland than Bruce or Baliolwere. This being flatly refufed by all, he betook him toi his'otherdefign. And firll dealt fecretly with Robert Bruce,1 promifing to difcern in his favours, if fie would take thefrown of Scotland holden of him, and do him homage forjit. But he ftoutly refufed to fubjeft a free nation to anyrovert lord; whereupon king Edward called for John Ba-i jiol, who, knowing that he was not fo much favoured ofthe States of Scotland, eafily condefcended.to king Ed-{ward’s defire, and was by him declared King of Scotland;Ithe States, defirousof peace, conveyed him to Scoon, whereiihe wasctowned, anno 1291, and’all, except Bruce, (woreiiobedience to him. Thereafter Duncan Macduff, earl of'"Fife, was killed by lord Abernethy, (a man of great pow¬der in thofe times, allied both with the Cummings and Ba-uliol;) the earl’s brother, .finding the King partial in the ad-luniniftration of juftice, fummoned him to compear beforethe King of England in parliament; where being prefenr,land fitting befide King Edward, (after he had done himhhomage) when he was called upon, thought to anfwer bya procurator; but he was forced to rife, and Hand at the;ibar. This indignity grieved him greatly, he refolved U>ifree himfelf of this bondage. At the fame time war break-tling out between England and France, king Edward fentbambaffadors to the parliament of Scotland to fend aid toIthim, as now being their over-lord. There came alfo otherisambafladors from France, defiring the ancient league to betrenewed. The King and the States of Scotland renewed'ithe league with France, which had remained, inviolablyllkept, for the fpace of 500 years before. The king of Eng-B'Jand’s fuit was rejected, becaufe the pretended furrenderijand homage, was made by John Baliol privately, withoutSthe confent of the parliament. A marriage was alfo con¬cluded betwixt prince Edward Baliol, and a daughter of.jChqdes, earl of Valois, brother to the French king Philip.1 'Edward having forefeen all thefe things, had drawn Ro¬bert Bruce, earl of Carrick, with bis friends, (enemies toiBaliol) and divers noblemen of Scotland, who held lands6 T H E H I S T O R Y O Fof him in England, to briugfach forces as they could make, jto afiift him in the French war; But withal taking truce '■with the French for fome months, he fuddeniy turned hisforces deftined againft France, towards Scotland. His na¬vy was vanquifhed at Berwick, and 18 of his fhips taken.Yet his land hoft, by the means of the Brucian fa&ion, dand the Englifhed-Scots noblemen, took the town of Ber- ;jwick with great daughter, andlhortly thereafter, Dunbar, ilEdinburgh and Stirling. In, and about thefe caftles, he ||had killed and taken captives the greatelt part of the Scots 1noblemen; fo that eroding Forth, the blow being fo fud- |den, he found no preparation for refiftance, Baliol furren- |dered himfeff to king Edward at Montrofe, and was fent ||by him into England, where be remained captive till fuch "jtime as by interceffion of the Pope, he was let at liberty,fwearing and giving hoftages never to return to Scotland,King Edward came to Scoon, and took upon him the ?crown of Scotland, as forfeited by the rebellion of his <,homager Baliol. He fent for the nobles of Scotland whoremained, that they, with fuch as were his captives, might ifwear homage to him as to their liege Lord and King,tfcofe who refufed, were detained prifoners.King Edward, thinking that now all was fure for himin Scotland, left John Plantagenet, (fome call him War¬ren) earl of Surry, and Sir Hugh Creffingham treafurer, Iand returned to profecute the French war, taking fuch of |the nobility of Scotland as he feared, along with him, with-their followers. The great men of Scotland, being in this4,manner either imprifoned by king tdvvard, or fworn tohis obedience, and tied thereto by reafon of the lands hold-«n of the crown of England, the reft either fled into the iiftes or highlands, or thought it fufticient to defend their J-own till better times.But while men of power neglc&ed the public caufe of [the liberty of Scotland, William Wallace, a youth of hon- • jourafoe birth, being fon to Malcom Wallace of Eldeiflie, ^but of mean power, having firftin private killed many Eng-; jlifhmen of the garrifons as he could overtake them, bythefe exploits, being fo encouraged, (being a man of in¬vincible hardinefs, incredible ftrength of body and withalvery wife and eircumfpeft) that he gathered his friends andneighbours,"and by jeopardies and ftratagems, divers timesait off great numbers of the enemy; the report thereofSIR WILLIAM WALLACE. 7few to him, fuch as afFefted the liberty and welfare ofiteir country, and had courage to hazard themfelves forI indicating thereof. As namely the eail Malcom Lennox,lie lord William Douglas, (who had been taken captive atte winning of Berwick, whereof he was captain, and featome upon aflurance) Sir John Graham, Sir Neil Camp-el, Sir Chriilopher Seaton, Sir John Ramfay, Sir FergusJarclay, Andrew Murray, William Oliphant, Hugh Hay,R-cbert Boyd, John Johnftohn, Adam Gordon, Robertveith, Ronald Crawford younger, Adam Wallace, Rogervilpatrick, Simon and Alexander Frazers, James Craw¬ford, Robert Lauder, Scriminger, Alexander Auchinleck,1 jvuthven, Richard Luudie, William Crawford, ArthuriBiffet, Janies and Robert Lindfay, John Cleland, WilliamKer, Edward Little, Robert Rutherford, Thomas Hal-* l iday, John Tinto, Walter Newbigging, Gerdan Baird,putheries, Adam Currie, Hugh Dondafs, John Scot, Ste-i jven Ireland, Mr. John Blair, Mr. Thomas Grey, and otherligentlemen with their friends and fervants; who'&fter fome1 ivaliant exploits happily atchieved, and an army of 10,000nmen, led by Thomas earl of Lantafter to the earl of War-»lren, defeated by Wallace at Bigger, (bolding an afiemblyI'at the Foreft Kirk) chofe Wallace to be warder, of Scot-n'land, and viceroy in Baliol’s place: In which office, heIfb valiantly behaved himfelf, that in a (hort fpace he reco-■'vered all the ftrength on the border, and brought the1 fouth part of Scotland to good quiet.The Engliffi fearing the lofs of all, fubtilly took truce■i with W'idlace for one year, beginning in February. In June" following, they proclaimed a Juftice eyre to beheld St Glaf-gow and Air the 18th of that month, thinking to entrap'1 Wallace and all his friends, and under colour of law, to cut! them off at the day appointed. All landed men according1 to the euftom, aflembling to this court, the Englilh con-I denmed them for felony, and hanged them prefently; a-H mongft the reft, Sir Ronald Crawford, fheriff of Air, un¬cle to Wallace, Sir Bryce Blair, Sir Neil Montgomery,and many of the barons of Kyle, Cunningham, Carrick^'and Clydefdale. Thofe who efcaped by flight, cdVertifeiTallace, who chanced to come later than the reft. He af-fembling fuch of the country, as (detefting fo horrible 4fa&J extremely hated the authors thereof, in the beginningof the night, fecretly entered into Air, fee fire to the placewhere the Englishmen, after that fa£t, were fecurely Sleeping, and Suffered none to efcape. The garrifon of the caitie iffued forth to quench the tire, an ambulh, laid for tbpurpofe, entered the houfe and made it fare. The nexmorning Wallace came to Glafgow, where the Lord Henry Piercy had’retired from Air the day before; him hexpulfed thence with great {laughter. The victory he f8 THE HISTORY OFhotly purfued, that immediately thereafter he took thecaftle of Stirling, recovered Afgylt, and Lorn, with thetown of St. Johftoun, and country about; thence he trav¬elled thro’ Angus and Mearns, taking in all the ftrengthathe E-ngli/h, who had fled,by fea, with the lord Henry ;Beaumont, an Engliflt-lord, w,ho had married the heretrix Jof the earldom of Buchan, named Gumming. Thus all the I•north country was reduced to the obedience of Wallace,except the caftle of Dundee; while he lay at the fiegethereof, news came of the approach of the Englifh army,led by John earl of Warren and Surry, and Sir Hugh ?Creflingham with a great number of Northumberland men j)and fuch of the Scots as held with England, to the num-fcer of 30,000. Wallace having with him 10,000 menhardened in arms, met him befide Stirling, on the northfide of the Forth, which having no fords at that place, waspaffible only by a wooden bridge. This he on purpofe hadcaufed to be weakened, fo that the one half of the hoft be- |ing paft, led by Creflingham, the bridge broke with thegreat weight of their baggage. Thofe who were come o- jsrer, Wallace charged Suddenly, before they were put in !order, and cut the moll part in pieces, with their leaderCreflingham: the reft Seeking to efcape were drowned inthe water. The earl of Warren, and thofe that efcaped,were affailed by earl Malcom Lennox, captain of Stirling ■]caftle, and being hotly purfued by Wallace, hardly efcap-cd, himfelf flying into Dumbar, a caftle then belonging tothe earl of March. In this battle, fought the 13^ of Sep¬tember, 1 297, there died no Scotfman of remark, but A n-drew Murray of Bothwell. The Englifh garrifons hearingi)f this difcomfiture, fled from all places, fo that before thela ft of September, all the {Lengths of Scotland were re¬covered except Berwick and Roxburgh.After thofe victories he held a parliament at St. John-ftoun, as warden of Scotland, and fettled the wdiole coun-lintil he came to Aberdeen, which he found forfaken bySIR WILLIAM WALLACE. 9try, caufing the nobility to fwear to be faithful to theiState, till fuch times as they might condefcend who fhould'be King: Earl Patrick Dunbar refufing to acknowledgeisthe authority of this parliament, was chafed out of Scot-1 iand ; and becaufe the year by-pad, the ground had notbeen manured, aud great famine threatened the land, Wal¬lace affembled a great holt, and entered England, wherehe remained all the winter and the fpring following, livingupon the enemies’ provifions, and enriching his f»ldiersbytheir fpoil; during which time the Englifh durll never en¬counter him in open field : Only at the firft entry, KingEdward, wifh a great army of raw foldiers, came againfttmm in the plain of Stanmure; but perceiving the difcip-iline and hardy refolution of Wallace’s hoft, before theyi'jfcame nearer than half a mile, drew back his army and re¬tired : Wallace, for fear of ambulh, kept his foldiers inorder, and purfued them not. Thus King Edward left hisxountry to the mercy of a provoked enemy; and notwith-"llanding that he promifed battle, yet he kept himfelf clofetill a peace was concluded for five years, Berwick andRoxburgh being rendered to the ScotsScotland thus enjoying perfeft liberty, Wallace, beingmearneftly requefted by the French King, to the end that' his fpecial captains might be kept in military exercife dur-; ing'the peace, failed over to France, with 50 of them inilihis company. He was encountered on the way by Thomas^of Charters, (commonly called Thomas of Longueville,)Who, with 16 fail, infefted the feas: but boarding Wallace’silfijip, he was taken by him, and thereafter fought moft va-iantly under him and king Robert Bruce, for the libertyf Scotland. After Wallace landed in France, he was em-loyed in war againtt the Englifh, who at that time pof-Ijfefled the duchy of Guienne and Bourdeaux ; them he de¬feated in fundry Ikirmifhes But in a few day's he was call¬ed home by fome of his friends in Scotland! for King Ed¬ward, underltanding his abfence, and pretending that hehad broken the peace in Guienne, dealt with Robert Brnceearl of Garrick, and his friends, and with inch noblemenof Scotland as held lands in England, or envied Wallace’sglory, telling that it was a fhame for thenvto fuffer Wal¬lace a mean gentleman, to rule Scotland, while any of the( blood royal did remaip; fo promifing his affiilance to Ro-Ibert Bruce, he fent a great army into Scotland, and by theto THE HISTORY OFhelp of the Brucian fa&ion, and Englifhed noblemsn> he,gafily obtained the greateft ftrengths of Scotland. Wallacereturned the next fummerand, fecretly amaflinga numbeof his fpecial followers, who had lurked till his back-comiwg, on a fudden furprifed St. Johnftoun by a ftratagem;and puvfuing his vidlory hotly, chafed the Englifh out ofFife. Upon the report hereof, all the reft of his followercame from their lurking holes, by whofe afliftance he recovered divers ftrengths. The lord \Villiam Douglas toolthe caftle of Sanquhar by a ftratagem, and finding the Englifh captains of the neareft garrifons coming to befiege him,he fe/U fecretly to Wallace, who coming with his power,?not only railed the fiege, but chafed all the Englilh gar-trifons out of thefe quarters: from whence he came to thenorth parts, which he recovered with fmall difficulty, ex¬cept the ftrong caftle of Dundee, to which he laid fiege.The King of England, grieved at the fortunate fuccefsof Wallace, and underftanding that he was highly envied*'by the earl of March, the Cummings, (the greateft fur-'name then in Scotland) and diversancient noblemen, (fromwhofe honour Wallace's renown feemed to derogate) heftirred up Robert Bruce elder, and his faction, perfuadingjthem that Wallace was Bruce’s only competitor for thecrown. Having fo made a ftrong party for hicnfelf inthe next fpring he came with an army of 40,000 men, 1Scots and Engliffi, to Falkirk, 6 miles from Stirling. The |Scots army was very great, being 30,000 ftrong, if theybad been all of- one mind. For John Cumming lord ofCumbernauld, (who had an eye to the crown) had per-fuaded the lord John Stewart of Bute, being tutor, andgrandfather by the mother, to the lord James Stewart ofRenfrew, lately deceafed, to contend with Wallace for theleading of the van guard, alledging that the fame belongedto the lord Stewart’s houfe by ancient privilege. Wallacerefufing this, they parted one from another in high chaff,there remaining with him no more than 10,coo of hisold foldiers. Cumming with 10,000 of his followers, af¬ter a fmall fhaw of refvftance, fled treafonably, leaving thevaliant Stewart inclofcd by two battalions of the Englifti,by whom, after he had fought valiantly for a long time, hewas cut off with all his followers. Wallace»with his partydefended themfelves valiantly, until they were fafely retir¬ed beyorid the river Carron, lofing (befides fome others)Sin WILLIAM WALLACE. ft;ihc aoble Sir John Graham, the moft valiant worthy of: Scotland', next unto Wallace. Bruce, whom the king of! England had brought with all his friends into the field,iiwetending to affill him for recovery of his right from theJifurper. Bruce, perceiving Wallace on the other fide theiCarron, defired to fpeak with him, &nd upbraiding himivith fo foolilh an ufurpation of the kingdom of Scotland,i jigainft fo powerful a faftion at home, affifted by fo mighty\ king abroad. I, anFw&ed Wallace intend never to reign. m Scotland, but finding my native country abandoned byyou and Baliol, who1 have the right to the crown, have fetimyfelf to defend my friends and neighbours, from the un-i ijult tyranny and ufurpation of the king of England, whoifetteth you forth molt unnaturally to tear the bowels ofyour mother with your own hands,. After divers fp.eechesHto this purpofe, Bruce, perceiving the fraudful and tyratt-ulous dealing of king Edward, returned to the hoft. Theifnext morning Wallace, underllanding that the Englilh ar-imy was weakly entrenched and in great fecurity, amaffingi#with his own army fuch as had efcaped, fet upon them inI the dawning before they could be £wrayed, and killed ma-tny: fo that the Englifh king returned at that time with-n out any further exploit. Bruce, remembring what he heardIt of Wallace, defired king Edward, according to his former' promifes, toputhim in poffefiionof fo much of the kingdomk of Scotland as then was under his power; to whom he an->•') fwered in the French tongue, ‘ Have we no more ado buti^onquer kingdoms for you.’ By this fpeech the lord Bruceconceived fo great grief and anger, that within few dayshe departed, this life without feeing his eldeft fon RobertBruce, afterwards King, he being kept foraflurance of hisfather’s obedience in Calais caftle in France.I After this unhappy battle, Wallace, ftriving to recoverfuch caftles and ftrength as king Edward had intercepted,tound fuch oppofition and backwatdnefs, by envious emu¬lators, that he returned to St. Johnftoun, and, in the af-fembly of the States, refigned his charge of warden, andw ith 18 men pafied again into France, according to a pro-mife at his return therefrom. This fell out at the end ofthe year i 300. The oppofite fa&ion having gained theirdelire, chofe John Gumming governor; the rather becaufeking Edward had promifed to affilt him to the crown ofScotland. But he found him as great an enemy as he had12 THE HISTORY OFbeen to Wallace. For after 7 months truce, obtained b'means of the French king, Edward fent Sir Ralph God-frey with a great army to fubdue the Scots, and to put aend to the war, which they expefted would be eafy. Wailace being now out of the way. John Camming, joiningwith the lord Simon Frafer, making 8000 or 9000 men,came to refift the Engliih, who having wafted the countryas far as Roflin, about 5 miles from Edinburgh, expectingno, refiftance, divided themfelves into 3 parties, that theymight fpoil farther into the country. The Scots embracingthe oceafion, fet upon the firft divifion, and eafily difcomfiled them; the fecond alfo, albiet ftronger by the joiningof thofe who fled, was after a long conflict put to the rout.By this the third divifion, coming to the revenge, put theScots to a great ftrait, as being forely wounded, wearied,and weakened, in the two former battles, and having’towithiland a frefh enemy, of far greater number: hereuponthey were forced to kill all the captives, left they ftiouldafliit the enemy, and with their weapons to arm the bag¬gage men: and fetting forward both with courage and neceffity, feeing no efcape, after a long and hard fight, theyput the enemy to flight. This was March 24th, 1302.King Edward, fore incerded by this evil fuccefs, fent forRobert Bruce younger out of Calais, whom he perfuaded,that he had for a long time, againft Wallace, defended hisfather’s right to the crown of Scotland: that having putWallace out of the way, he found the Cummings as greatenemies: Notwithftanding, he intended yet once more toput that enemy out of the way, and to fettle him in hiskingdom. The young prince believing him, caufed all hisfriends and favourers in Scotland, tajoin with him, and en¬tering the border, fpoiled the country, and took divers caf- ,ties as far as Douglas. Some report that the Lady Doug- .las, named Ferras, an Englifh woman, betrayed that caftleto the Bruce, who took the lord William Douglas cap¬tive, with all his children and goods. The Lord himfclf waskept prifoncr in Berwick, and thereafter in York, wherehe died. Meantime, king Edward had prepared a mightyarmy, both by land and fea, with which he entered Scot¬land, and fubdued all before him while he came to Stirling,kept then by Sir William Oliphaut, who after a long fiege,knowing of no relief, yielded the caftle upon condition,that himfelf and all that were with him, fhould pafs withSIR WILLIAM WALLACE. ijtheir lives fafe: Notwithflanding king Edward kept ftilljill the noblemen, together with the captain Sir WilliamOliphant; and Inch as would not fwear homage to him,(pretending to be the prote&or of Robert Bruce’s right)he fent prifoners to London. Having in this cadle inter-fcepted divers of John Cumming’s friends, he procuredthem to draw him to a parley with him; in which he fominded him with the hopes of the kingdom, and with fear:>f utter undoing, that he joined himfelf and his friends tohe Englifh; who, by this accefiion, eafily palled forwardvith the courfe of victory, as far as the utmoll bounds ofivofs: and in his back coming, carried away with him in-o England all books, regifters, hiftories, laws and monu¬ments of the kingdom: and among others, the fatal mar->le chair, whereupon the former Scots Kings ufed to berowned at Scoon, on which was engraven a prophecy,rearing, ‘ That wherever this chair fliould be tranfported,he Scots Ihould command there ’ He carried alfo withi ::im all the learned men and profeflqrs of Scotland, amongirthers the famous Doctor John Duns, furnamed Scotus,nhinking thereby to difcourage and effeminate the mindsif the Scots, that they (houid call off all care of recover-;|ig their liberty, the memory thereof being drowned inrblivion. At his return Into England, he left his coufin,'ir Aymer Vallance, earl of Pembroke, viceroy, havingrtihed all the cables with ftrong garrifons.The Scots who Hood for the liberty of their country,ing forfaken by John Gumming, fent earned, letters toance to move Wallace to return. He was then makingr upon the Englifh in Guienne ; but hearing the mif-Jiefs of his country, he obtained leave of th» French kingreturn: and fecretly gathering fome of his old filiends,I1 covered divers cables and towns in the north, and hav-) g greatly increafed his army, befieged St. Johnltoun, till£ furrendered. But as he proceeded in the courfe of his'.lories, he was betrayed by his familiar friend, Sjir John|onteuh, to Aymer de Vallance. who lent him into Eng-,id, where, by king Edward’s command, lie was put tojath, and his body quartered, and fent into the principal«ies of Scotland, to be fet up for a terror to others. .i^Notwithbanding, this cruelty prevailed little for the af-ijjing of king Edward’s conqueft ; new enemies aribngLence he leaft expelled; for as he returned from his laft<4 THE HISTORY OFjourney into Scotland, John Camming and Robert Bruce ,meeting together, after a long conference on the ftate of,their country, perceived, that notwithftanding he had pro*mifed to each of them apart his help to obtain the crownof Scotland, yet his i «ention was only to ufe their aflift- Ifcnce to conquer and fecure it to himfelf, as he well declar- jed, by fpoiling the country of all monuments, public and Iprivate. Hereupon they agreed, that Camming fhould quit Iall his rights to the crown in favours of Bruce, and that*}Bruce (hould give him all his lands for his affiftance, «md|ithis contraft was written and fealed by both parties. Up- jon this Bruce, watching an opportunity to rife in arms, {left his wife and children in Scotland, and went to the court Jof England. After his departure, Gumming (as it is re^fported) either repenting himfelf of this agreement, or elfe.iendeavouring fradulently to oppofe his co-rival, and fo ob*Stain an eafier way to the kingdom, revealed their fecretcombination to Edward ; and in evidence of it, he fent himthe coven-ant ligned by them both. Upon that, Bruce was-impleaded as guilt^ of high treafon : he was forbidden todepart the court, and a private guard fet over him to in*fpe<5t his words and a&ions. The king’? delay to puniikhim for a crime fo manife!!, proceeded from a deGre hehad to take his brethren too, before they had heard aojsinoifc of his execution.Bruce advertifed of his danger by the earl of Glouceftetj(fome call him the earl’of Montgomery) his old triend,|who had fent him a pair of (harp fpurs, and fome crowiwfof gold, as if he had borrowed the fame, gueffing thtjmeaning of this propine, caufed by night, ihoe three hor!Jes backward, and polled away from court with two in hiicompany, aud on the lifth day (the way being deep iiwinter,) arrived at his own caftle of Lochmaben, whephe found his brother Edward, with Robert Fleming, JamBLindfay, Robert .Kilpatrick, and Thomas Charters, wilttold hijn how Wallace was betrayed by Sir John Monteitnjiand the Gumming faction a few days before. Immediate#.thereafter thgy intercepted a meflenger with letters frorGumming to king Edward, deliring that Bruce fnouidadifpatched in hade, left being a nobleman much favoursby the commons he fliould raife greater ftfrs. The treadery of John Gumming, before only fufpecled, was herebmade manifeft, wbichfoincenfed the Lord Bruce, that i a jSIR WILLIAM WALLACE. 1*Tig to Dumfries, and finding Gumming at the mafs of thelirey-Friers, after he had (hown him his letters, in impa¬tience, he ftabbed him with Iris dagger; and others whoit/ere about him doing the like, not only difpatched him,nut alfo his coufin Sir Edward Gumming, and others whoHilled him. This flaughter fell out on the 9th of Febru-Ty^ in the year 1306, as we now account.The Bruce, thus rid of one enemy, found a great num-er as it were atifing out of his afhes, even the whole puif-: ant name of Gumming, with their allies, the earl of March,he lord of Lorn, the lord of Abernethy, the lord of Brech-,1, tVe lord Soules, the mod part of the North, and allgalloway followed the Cummings: ihe earl of March, theprd William Soules commanded the Merfe, with Berwick;ind the border; all which they yielded to king Edward,,1'jind maintained agaiuft Robert Bruce. At the fame timef,!s two brothers, Thomas and Alexander Bruce, with:lonald Crawford younger, fecretly landing in Galloway,fere taken by Duncan Macdougal a great man in Gallo-ay, and fent to King Edward, who caufcd them all threeId be hanged. On the other fide, aflembled to him, befide‘ihefe above named, the young lord James Douglas, (whosearing of his father’s death, had returned from France,elu've he was at fchool, and ftaid a time with his kinfman,William Lamberton, bifhop of St. Andrews,) earl Mal-tjlom Lennpx, earl John of Athol, (altho’ of the Gummingklood, yet being father-in-law to Edward Bruce,) Sir NeilriCampbell, Sir Gilbert Flay, Sir Chriftopher Seaton, Sirtiomas Ronald, Sir Flugh Hay, John Somerville, David-relay, Alexander and Simon Frazer, Sir Robert Boyd,■ William Halyburton, with fundry who had Hood withallace before. With this company he paft into.Scoon,i took upon him the crown cf Scotland, in April 1309.fter this he gathered an army, minding to befiege St.hnftoun. But finding his power too weak, he retired toT.Iethven, where he was unexpectedly affaulted and dif-bmiited by Sir Aymer de Vallancc, but with fmall lofs ofsi ten, except fome who were taken, as Randal, Barclay,razer, Inchmartine, Somerville, and Sir Hugh Hay, who} ere conftrained to fwear homage to king Edward. Thet] unraons difeouraged with this hard fuccpfs, fearing the;1 ngl'»t, forfeok the new king; who had a fmall compa-c r of gentlemen about him, with whom he travelled to*16THE HISTORY OFwards Argyll, meaning to lurk for a time with his brother-in-law, Sir Neil Campbell, but he'was encountered bythe way, by John of Lorn, coufin to John Gumming and'conftrained to flee, albeit with fmall flaughter of his ownfolk. After this fecond difeomfiture, he fent his Queen,(being daughter to Gratney earl of Mar,) with,his brotherSir Neil Bruce, and John earl of A’hoi, to the caftle of Kil-drimmy, in Mar. The King of England fent his fon, princEdward with a mighty hoft. to befiege this caflle. The^Queen heating this, fled to the frith of Tain in Rofs: but’the earl of Rofs took her, and her daughter and fent themcaptives into England. The caflle of Kildrimmy was traiVtoroufly burnt by one-of the garrifon : all that were therein itaken and hanged, at the command of the Englifh king.Robert, feeing winter approaching, and finding no re¬treat in the main land, retired with his molt entire friends,to his old friend Angus, lord of the ides; with whom heflayed a flrort time in Kintyte, and thereafter failed overinto the ifle of Raughline, where he lurked all the winter;every‘man fuppofinghim to he dead. The next fpring helanded quietly in Carrick, and on a fudden intercepted hisown caitle of Tumberry The Lord Piercy flyinghome out'of it to his own country. Sir James Douglas departing.,thence fecretly, came into Douglas-dale, and by means ofThomas Dickfon, an old fervant of his father’s, he recov¬ered his own caftle of Douglas, and caft it down once andagain ; thereafter he returned to king Robert to Cumnock, ifiiewing him that Aymer de Vallartce, and John of Lorn, ■with an army, were coming againft him. The King with500 valiant men kept themlelves in a rtrong place, waitingwhile Sir Aymer would invade: but took no heed to John'of Lorn, who fetching a compafs, fet upon his back with8o<3 highlandmen. and had well nigh inclofed them about.;The king perceiving th.e danger, divided his men in three;and appointing where they fliould meet at night, fled three'fundry ways. John of Lorn having a flothdiound, purfu-ed dill after the King, who putting away all that were in ;his company, fave one man, fled into the next wood, and'with great difficulty efcaped the floth-hound. Sir Aymer,difappointed of this enterprize, ftiortly thereafter, with1500 chofcti men, very near forprifed the King in Glen- (tole-wood : But the King with his men taking ci^irage, 1refolutely defended the place, which was very ftrong, andSIR WILLIAM WALLACE. 17killing divers of the firft who affaulted them, the reft flediiiack. Therefore, with more courage, he went into thei'ields, reduced Kvle and Cunningham to his obedience, Sir; ames Douglas alfo, with 60 men lying in an ambufti at a■rail place in Cunningham, called the Netherford; wherejlir Philip Moubray was palling, with idoo men againftae King, being then in Kyle, killed many bf them and!ut the reft to flight. On May 10th followiffg, Sir Aymerl ith 3000 men came againft the King^tlten lying in Gal¬on in Kyle: King Robert hearing of his coming, albeit hetcetded not 600 men, came forth againft him at a place;ider Loudon hill, which he fo fortified on every handith dykes and foufies, that the enemy could not inclofe!m on both fides; and fo by the ftout and refolute valourfo few, Sir Aymer was put to flight, which he took fore to heart that he retired into England, and gave overs office of warden, or viceroy, John of Britain earl ofiliichmond being fent into Scotland in his place,if King Robert after this paft into the north, leaving Sirr.mes Douglas on the borders, who, taking his own caftleI Douglas by a ftratagem, razed it to the ground, and inmew days chafed all the Englifh out of Douglas-dale Et-ick foreft, and Jedburgh foreft, and took Sir Thomastndal the King’s Sifter’s fon, (who had followed theipglifh ever fince his captivity,) and Sir Alexander Stew-W of Bunkle. Sir Alexander and Simon Frazer, meetinghg Robert in the nprth, (hewed him, how John Cum-,jng earl of Buchan, David lord Brechin, Sir John Mou-;,yy, and the reft of the Gumming faftion, were gather-Ian army againft him. Mean while, by the affiftance offriends in thefe quarters, on a fudden he furpri&’d theii-ftle of Invemefs the fame of which vittory caufed manytber (Lengthsto yield: all which he overthrew and great-ijncreafed the numbe r of his friends. In his return, tak-lil ficknefs at Inveruty, Gumming fet upon him. The•b’g. after h is friends had for a time defended him, re¬vering fomewhat, went out to the field, and fo hardly af-ia;lted his enemy at Old Meldrum, th£t albeit their num-iw was far greater, yet they took their flight. With thetw fucctfs he fet upon the King, in Glenafle in Angus,'ll re, being (hamefully put to flight, he fled into Eng-g i> with Sir John Moubray, and died there (hortly after.S.jd David Brechin fortified his owm caftle, but Davidi8 THE HISTORY OFearl of Athol, forced him to yield it a.nd himfelf to the *King. Mean time, Philip Frazer took the caflle of For- afar: and the King, putfuing this victory, reduced all thenorth to his obedience ; and joining with the lord James ■Douglas, returning from the South with his two captives, 1he took St. Johnftoun by furprizal: from thence he paf-fed into Lorn, the Lord whereof had ambiifhed two thou-fand men, on the fide of a deep hill, where the King be->.hoved to.enter through a narrow paffage: but Sir James'Douglas-, with Sir Alexander Frazer ; tfnd Sir Andrew 'Gray, climbing the hill, came ftiddenly on their backs,and put them to flight. John of Lorn fled into England'by fea : his father, Lord Alexander M'Dougal, yielded !himfelf and the cattle of Dunftaffuage to the King.. By thefe means, all on the north tide of Forth was re-fduced to obedience; Sir Edward, his brother, in the meantime, who by long and hard fighting, had conquered Gal¬loway, JamesDouglas, by a ftratagem, furprized the ftrong*caftle of Roxburgh on the Faften’s-even, while all the gar-'rifon (after the cuffom of the time) were feafting and play¬ing the riot. The report whereof, fo whetted the valiantThomas Randal newly reftored to his uncle’s favour, andmade earl of Murray, that having befieged the caftle of E-dinburgh for fome months, he fet himfelf by all means tqcarry the fame, which 1-e obtained by a narrow paflage upthrough the rock, difcovered by Bim : by which he andfundry flout gentlemen fecretly paffed up, and fcaling the:wall, after long and dangerous fighting, made themfelves:maftcrs of the place. The garrifons of Rutherglen,»erk, Dumfries, Air, Dundee, and Bute, hearing thisyielded up thefe caftles, which were all razed. The ifle o8Man, alfo returned to the obedience of the crown of Scot-;land. Sir Edward Bruce, having befieged Stirling caftlefthree months, agreed with the captain, Sir Philip Mou-ibray, that if the King of England did not reftue him with¬in 12 months thereafter, the caftle fhould be yielded tcking Robert. Albeit this ftemed a rafh provocation of fcmighty a King as Edward Longfhanks: (but far degenerate from his valour,) having not only England and Ireland!and many Englifhed Scots, with the duchy of GuienneBourdeaux, and other parts of France fubjeft to him, bualfo the low countries ilriAly confederate with him : ye ;king Robert prepafed himfelf to encounter him in thSIR WILLIAM WALLACE. 19elds, and gathered 35,000 men, few, but valiant. Theing of EnglancPhad above 100,000 foot, and 10,000i«orfe: with which multitude, intending to dellroy the in-i abitants of Scotland, and to divide the land to his follovv-rs, he came to Bannockburn, (two miles from Stirling,)’here on June 2 ill, 1314, he was encountered by thecots, and after long and hard fighting, his great armyut to the rout: himfelf, with a fmall company, fleeing in-> Dumbar, was fent by the Earl of March into England1 a filher-boat, leaving 200 noblemen and gentlemen kiL:d by the Scots, and as many taken : the number of theommons flain and taken was incredible. Of Scots w'ereain two gentlemen of note, Sir William Wepont, andir Walter Rofs, with 4000 common foldiers.After this viddory, Stirling being yielded, and Dusibar-m gotten by compofition, the Earl of March, the lord•oules, and Abernethy, and others of the Cummings’ al-ses, were reconciled to the king, who paft into the Ifles,.nd brought them to obedience, taking John of Lorni .[aptive, who died in prifon in Lochleven. Thus Scotlandu as freed of the bondage of England# except Berwick,is’hich was recovered four years thereafter, 1318, and thewcots making divers incurfions into England, under thetrading of Earl Thomas Randal, and James lord Douglas,ijjeqnitted the harms received from them before, and en-rached themfelves with their fpoil.As for the Authority of theie two hiftories, altho’ they‘ ofitbly err in fome circumftancesof time, place, and num-er, or names of men, yet generally they write the truth; f the ftory of thofe times, both at greater length, andc pon more certain information, than thofe who have writ¬er. our Chronicles. So committing them to thy diligenterufal, (gentle and courteous reader,) I wifh thee profit> icreby, and all happinefs from God. Farewel.^ fliort Account of the Battle of Bannockburn,which was fought, June 24th, 1314.^ T’DWARD II. kept up the fame claim in Scotlandil'-J which his father had begun : and, after feveral unfuc-’ dsful attempts to efiablilh it, he refolved to make a great■j ^ort> and at once reduce that turbulent nation, which hadit fo many fignal affronts upon his father and himfelf.20AN ACCOUNT OF THEIn the fpring, 1314, he affembled the mod numerou:army that had ever croffed the borders, cotnpofed of diffjJferent nations, and amounting to above 100,000 effeftivmen, befides, a huge multitude of attendants, who camalong, in hopes of lharing in the plunder of a.conqueredenemy. At the head of thefe he marched northward withan uncommon parade, and in full confidence of victory,'Robert Bruce, the fon of that Robert Bruce who held a1conference with Wallace upon the banks of the Carron,iand grandfon of him who had been competitor with Ba-liol, had, in 1306, been crowned king of Scotland, and.being informed of Edward’s formidable preparations, heraifed an army of 30,000 of his fubjc&s to oppofe him.This armament bore but a fmall proportion to that of Ed¬ward’s; but it was compofed of foldiers, who were hardened by long pra&ice of war, and who now carried .uponthe point of the fword, liberty and honour, aqd every '•thing that was dear to them. With thefe Robert took up>his ftation in the neighbourhood of Stirling, and waitedfor Edward’s arrival. The two armies came in fight ofseach other, in the month of June, and foon after, a bloody*battle was fought, in which the Scots obtained a vi£tory,fthe-.moft celebrated of any in the annals of that kingdom.rThe procedure of that memorable event, was as follows. ;)The Englifh, marched from Edinburgh to Falkirk ia(one day, and upon the morrow, fetting out from thence,towards Stirling, encamped to the northward of the Tor-jwood. About upper Bannockburn, and backward upon,the muir of Ple^n, in the neighbourhood of the ancientRoman caufeway, pieces of broken pots, and other veffelshave been found; and upon rocks near the furface, marks. ■,of fire have been difcovered, where it is fuppofed the fol¬diers had made ready therr provifions. Barbour, the au¬thor of king Robert Bruce’s life, Ipeaks as if their camp 1had ftretched fo far northward, as to occupy a part of theCarfe ground; and fo vaft a multitude mult doubtlefs havecovered a large tradt of country.The Scottifh army was polled about a mile to the north¬ward, upon feveral eminences, fouth from the prefent vil¬lage of St. Ninians. Upon the fummit of one of thefe e-minences, now called Brock’s Bare, is a Hone funk intothe earth, with a round hole in it, near three inches in,diameter, and much the fame in depth in which, accord*?•BATTLE OF BANNOCKBURN. 21jig to tradition, King Robert’s ftandard was fixed, the, ijayal tent having been erefted near it. This ftone is wellf! nown in that neighbourhood by the name of the Bore-i'Jtane- The fmall river of Bannockburn, remarkable for' 1 fteep and rugged banks, ran in a narrow valley betweenhe two camps.The caftle of Stirling was ftill in the.hands of the Eng-ih, Edward Bruce, the King’s brother, had in the fpringI i’ this year, laid fiege to it, but found himlelf obliged tooandon the enterprife; only by a treaty between thatirince and Moubray, the governor, it was agreed, thatthe garrifon received no relief from England before a1 ar expired, they fhould Surrender to the Scots. Thery preceding the battle, a ftrong body of cavalry, to theunber of 800, was detached from the Englilh camp,ider the conduit of lord Clifford, to the relief of that,nrrifon. Thefe, having marched through fome hollowrounds upon the edge of the Carfe, had paffed the Scots: irr.y before they were obferved. The King himfelf wasi| e firft that perceived them, and defiring Thomas Ran-iclph, earl of Murray, to look towards the place whereijey were, told him, that a tofe had fallen from his chap-. Randolph, confidering this as a reproach, becaufe he< d the charge of that part, through which the Englifht d marched, immediately fet out after them with a par-of 500 horfe, and coming up with them, in the plain!ur'- the fmall village of New-houfe now hands, a fharp.on enfued, in fight of both armies, and of the garrifonStirling. It was fought with valour on both fides: andifwas fome time doubtful where vi&ory would turn. King)hbert, attended by fome of his officers, beheld the en-tv unter from a rifing ground, fuppofed to be the roundfit 1 immediately upon the weft of St. Ninians, now called2 fck-fhot-hill, Sir James Douglas, perceiving the diftrefs1 Randolph, who was greatly inferior to the enemy inrr.ber^, afked leave to go to his fupport. This Kingbert at firft refufed, but afterwards confenting, Doug-put his foldiers in motion ; obferving, however, as hes on the way, that the vi&ory was upon the point ofng won without his affiftance, he ftopped ffiort, that hiand might have the unrivalled glory of it. The Eng-were entirely defeated, and many of them flain ; and.dolph returned to the comp amidft acclamations of/22 AN ACCOUNT OF THEuniverfal joy. To perpetuate the memory of this viftorjjtwo ftones were reared up in the field, and are ftill to bifeen there. They ftand in a fpot which has lately beetinclofed f«r a garden at the north end of the village oNewhoufe, and about a quarter of a mile, from the Bot;Ough-port of Stirling.This victory gave new fpirits to the whole army, am  ‘ Hmade them fo eager for the general engagement, that tbright, tho’ among the fiiorteft of the year, feemed Ionto them. Edward too, exafperated at the defeat of hdetachment, was determined to bring on the battle on thmorrow. At length appeared the dawn of that importantday, which was to decide, whether Scotland was he.forth to be an independent kingdom, or fubjeft to a fo feign yoke. Early all was in motion in both armies; re!igious fentiments were mingled with the military ardour uthe Scots; a folemn mafs, in the manner of thefe timeswas faid by the Abbot of ilnchaffery, a monaftaryStrathearn, who alfo adminiftred the facrament to thKing aad the great officers about him, while inferior priel?did the fame to the reft of the army. After this the 1formed in order of battle, in a track of ground call®Nether-Touchadam, which lies along the declivity ofgently riling hill. This fituation had been previoufly chcfen becaufe of its advantages. Upon the right they had.range of fteep rocks, now called Murray’s Craig, and itheir front, were fteep banks of the rivulet of Bannojbburn. Not far behind them was a wood ; fome veftiguf l|which ftill remain. Upon the left was a morafs, now cied Milton-bog, from its-vicinity to a fmall village of tlname : much of this bog is ftill undrained, and a psrtit is at prefent a mill dam. As it was then the middlefummer, it was almoft quite dry. But Kiig Robertrecourfe to a ftratagem, in order to prevent any attfrom that quarter. He had ordered many ditches and p:to be digged in the morafs, and ftakes, lharpened atends, to be driven into them, and the whole to be coveed over again with green turf, fo that the ground had fti1the appearance of being firm. He alfo caufed crow-fee:1or lharp pointed irons to be fcattered throughout the m<fr-rafs: fome of them have been found there in the me’mn •of people ftill living; the fame manoeuvres were likeuucarried ou for a little way alsmg the front of the w i .BATTLE OF BANNOCKBURN. *3for there the banks, for about tv”o hundred yards, beingmore flat than they are any where elfe, it was the only'Iplace where the enemy could pafs the river in any fort ofsprder. By means of thefe artificial improvements, join-bd to the natural ftrength of the ground, the Scotch ar-'jtny ftood as within an entrenchment, and the invifible pitsimd ditches anfwered the concealed batteries of more mo¬dern times.Amongft the other occurences of this memorable day,liftorians mention an accident of a Angular nature. Ashe two armies were about to engage. The Abbot of Tnch-liffery polling himfelf before the Soots, with a crucifix inu’s hand, they all fell down upon their knees in the aSt)f devotion. The enemy obferving them in fe uocbm-1 non a pofture, concluded that they were frighted intofubmiffion^ and that, by kneeling, when they Ihould be;ready to fight, they meant to furrender at difcretion, andjofily to beg their lives; but they were foon undeceived,ikhen they faw them rife again, and lland U> their armsfrith* Heady countenances.-1 The Euglilh began the aftion, by a briflc charge uponshe left wing of the Scots commanded by Randolph, nearshe fpot, where the bridge is now thrown over the river,i it the fmall village of Charter’s hall. Hereabout was thelunly place where the river could be crofied in any order.I\ large body of cavalry advanced to attack him in front,rhile another fetched a compafs to fall upon his flank andear, but before they could come to clofe engagement,(hey fell into the fnare that had been Lid for them, Ma-ly of their horfes were foon ditabled, by the lharp ironsufliing into their feet, others tumbled into the conceal-Jd pits, and could not difentangle themfelves. Pieces offiheir harnelling, with bits of broken fpears, and other ar¬mour, ftill continue to be dug up in the bog:In the beginning of the engagement, an incident hap¬pened, which, though in itfelf of fmall moment, was ren¬dered important by its confequences. King Robert wasmounted on horfeback, carrying a battle-ax in his hand,nd upon his helmet, he wore a high turban in the form>f a crown, by way of diftin&ion. This, together withu’s aftivity, rendered him very confpituous as he rode be-bre the lines. An EngKfti Knight, named Bohun, whorag ranked among the brjrcft in king Edward’s army,24 AN ACCOUNT OF THE, &c,came galloping furioufly up to him, in order to engage:with him in fingle combat, expecting, by fo eminent aniaft of chivalry, at once to put an end to the conteft, andigain immortal renown to himfelf; but the enterprizing;champion, having miffed the firft blow, was immediatelyftruck dead with the battle-ax which the King carried ihis hand. This was a fort of a lignal for the charge. S'bold an attack upon their King filled the Scots with fen-:timents of revenge ; and the heroic atchievement perform^ed by him before their eyes, raifed their fpirits to the higheft pitch. They rufhed furroully upoiv the enemy, who,,having by this time parted the river in great numbers,.!gave them a warm reception.A Angular occurence, which fome accounts reprefentas an accidental fally of patriotic enthufiafm, others as a,pre-meditated ftratagem of King Robert, fuddenly alteredthe face of affairs, and contributed greatly to the viftory |All the fervants and attendants of the Scottifti army, who.are faid to have amounted to 20,000, had been orderedbefore the battle, to retire behind Murray’s craig. Buthaving, during the engagement, arranged themfelves in a,martial form, they marched to the top of the hill, and dif-playing white (heets fixed upon poles, inftead of banners,moved towards the field of battle, with hideous Ihouts.The Englifti, perceiving this motely crowd, and takingthem for a frefh reinforcement, advancing to fupport theScots, were feized with a great pannic, that they began togive way in confufion. Buchanan fays, that the King ofEngland was the firft who fled ; but in this he contradiftsall other hiftorians, who affirm, that he was among thelaft in the field. The Scots purfued, and great was theflaughter among the enemy, efpecially in parting the ri¬ver, where they could keep no order, becaufe of the ir¬regularity of the ground. King Edward himfelf efcaped*with much difficulty, being clofely purfued above forty;miles by Sir James Douglas, with a party of light horfe |jhe was upon the point of being taken prifoner, when he"was received into the caftle of Dunbar, by the Earl ofMarch, who conveyed him to England by fea in a fiftier’sboat: His immenfe army being entirely difcomfited. TheScots only loft 4000 men, while the lofs of the Englirtlamounted to above 30,000.GLASGOW, Feinted by J. & M. Robertfoa. x8ot.I