Y/TTII FST ORA N D1 C TIIC A L TRANSACT I O 3»j FP A R TC A PHER;' was a bnt.cher came to his mafh. • andbbueht a bnc: fat calf, fq Tom !:; i it' «■ thf*'neclc' before the butcher, and whs::. v'a»<* row iays-Toin, what will ye ho’d nu , butilk. ' that caK IVoraidif butcher before ; . qoeg) ru/es off? Who, fays raafter, 1 hold, af'nea y« a don’t: :.-rw, fays 'j ora; in he , ands a : odmoeofi; mailer’s, and un itnotheisay '-;r6h- the iic'c , until he g*--t • the•co'near to the..Corner of the hedy , whore:re was an open and turning o* the iv, heres»n darns hhniclf behind the bed .1 throws; (hoe in the middle of ib< htyti then up••••>* the butcr/vr riding and his ca!. rc; him;. , , himf.lf, there’s a 1 . ' ..ic, if Iev, how yet on ny calf ajyrn. t • -uld hghtbut w at Og,:: .its one w:d.uut ‘ - i.vighbour,falb off he goes and lets it ly: Tom then flips o'and takes up the fh'oe again, and runs crofs tlfields, until he got in before the butcher, Jt anothopen of the hedge, about a half mile diftant, arthere he throws cut the fhoe again in the midftthe way; then up comes the butcher, and feeing ifays to hindelf, now I (hall have a pair of gocihoes for the lifting, and down he comes, lays t!calf on the ground, and tying his horfe to tlhedge, runs back, thinking to get the other fhoin which time, Tom whips up the calf and fliO'and hpme he comes, demanding his wager, whichis mailer could not deny, being fo fairly won.The poor butcher returned back to his horfe, gionly his travel for his pains, lo miffing his calf, i;knew rot what to fay or do, but thinking it hsbroke the rope from about its feet, and had gorinto the fields, the butcher fpent that day in fearcof it amongfc the hedges and ditches, and fo rturned to Tom’s mafter’s all night, intending to gand fearch farther for it next day, giving themtedious relation how he came to Jofe it by a curfepair of fhocs, which he believed the devil hadropped in his way, and how he had taken the caand all along with him, expreifing his thankfulnethat the devil was fo honeft as to fpare his old horfwhen he Hole away his calf. Next morning To;went to work, and made a fine white face on tfCalf with chalk and water, then brings it out anfells it to the butcher, which was good diverfion this matter and ether fervants, to fee the butch*buy his own calf again ; no fooner was he gcrwith it, but Tom fays, now matter, what will yc ,hold but I’ll fteal it from him again, ere he go* ;two miles off? No, no, fays his matter, I’ll hoi ‘no more bets with you, but I’ll give you a (HidingfIt . i 3. I •1u do it, done fays Tom, it ilia'l coft you no more;J away he runs a foot through the tields, until heme before the butcher, hard by the place wheredole the calf from him the day before: and herelies behind the hedge, and as the butcher cameft, he puts his hand on his mouth, and cries baww, like a calf; the butcher hearing this, fwears tomfelf, that there was the calf he had loft the dayfore, down he comes, throws the calf on theound, gets in through the hedge in all hafte,inking he had no more to do but take it up ? but.:i he came in at one part of the hedge, Tom jumpsit at. another, and gets the calf on his back; thents in over the hedge on the other fide, and thro’e fields came fafely home, with the calf on his: ck, whiift the poor butcher fpent his time and' jour in vain, running from hedge to hedge, andIle to hole, feeking what was not there to beind. So the butcher returned to his hone again,d finding his other calf gone, he concluded it todone by fome invifible fpirit about that fpot ofound; and fo went home, and raifed a bad report(the devil, faying, he was turned a highwayman,i had taken two calves from him. So Tomftiing the white face of the ftolen calf, his maftert the butcher word, to come and buy another, f, which he accordingly did a few days after,d Tom fold him the fame calf the third time;in told him the whole affair as it was adted, giv-l him his money again, fo the butcher got but» for his trouble.CHAP. II.'HERE was an old rich blind woman, who lived[■ hard by, that had a young girl, her only daugb-A a ter.V>r 4 ] .ter, and ilie fell deep in love with Toni, and Tcfell as deep in love with the money, but not withe maid, the old woman bellowed a vaftofpjfents on Tom, and mounted him like a gentlemsbut fbill he put off the marriage from time to'lirjAnd always wanted fomething, which the oldman gave money to purchafe lor him, until he hjgot about thirty pounds of her money, and thenWould delay the .marriage no longer; Tom wrtnd took the old woman and girl afide, and mhis apology as follows : Dear mother, faid he; Ivery willing to wed my dear Polly, for Ihe appe:as an angelic mine eyes, but I am forry, very lixy to acquaint you, that I am not a fit match for hwhat, child, fays the old woman, there’s not a fi':match m the world for my Polly. I did not thyour country could afford fuch a clever youthwhat I hear of you to be, you (hall neither wigold nor filver, nor a good horfe to ride upon, awhen I die you fhall have my all: O but fays Tomother that’s not the matter at all, the flop is tkwhen I was at home in Scotland, I got a firewith a horfe’s foot on the bottom of the bel:which has quite difabled me below, that I camperform a hulband’s duty in bed. Then thewoman clapt her hands, and fell a crying, O !fad been any impediment but that, but that,that woftp that! which gold nor filver cannot pchafe, and yet the poorefl people, that is, e*common beggars have plenty of it. The old v !;man and her daughter fat crying, and wring- fjtheir hands, and Tom flood and wept leftfhould get no more money. O fays Polly, mot! pI’ll wed with him neverthelefs, I love him fo dc ily! No, no, you foolifh girl, would you thr vyourfelf away, to marry a man and die a maid. ■dcIs}...n’t know the end of your creatioft, it is the enjoy-lent of a man in bed, that makes women to marry,hich is a pleafure like paradife, and if you wedith this man, you’ll live and die and never know. Hoo, hoo, lays Tom, if 1 had got money, I: :eded not been this way till now: Money, youol, faid the old woman, there’s not fuch a thingi be got for money in all England ; ay, fays Tom,ere’s a do&or in Newcaille, will make me as ablei any other man for ten guineas ; ten guineas, faide, I’ll give him 50 guineas if he will, but here is,, and go to him directly, and know firft what hen do, and come again and wed my child, or (hed I will die both for thy fake. Tom, havingvw got twelve guineas more of their money, goti tilings ready, and next morning early fet out forj^wcaftle, but inftead of going to Newcaftle, he, me to old Scotland, and left Polly and her mo-t:r to think upon him, then in about two weekser, when he was not like to return, no, nor fojrch as a word from him, the old woman and Pol-got a horfe and came to Newcaftle in fearch oftin, went through all the do&or’ (hops, aiking ittere came a young man there about two weeks a-\, with a broken cock to mend ; fome laughed at|r, others were like to kick her out of doors, foyy had to return without getting any farther in-‘igence of him.■'low after Tom’s return to Scotland, he got ae, and took a little farm near Dalkeith, and be-e a very doufe man for many days, followingold bufinefs, the couping of horfes and cows,feeding of veai for (laughter and the like: He!nt one day to a fair, and bought a fine cow fromold woman, but Tom judged by the lownefs of( price that the cow certainly had fome fault:1 A 3 ‘ Tom^7Tom gives the •wife the other hearty bicker of athen fays he, Wife, the money is yours, and ;tow is mine, ye maun tell me ony wi’ bits of f;|it Ihe has : Indeed, quo’ the goodwife, fbe has r.a faut but ane, and if Ihe wanted it, I wad ne-a parted wi’ her; and what’s that goodwife ? 1;be, Indeed, laid (he, the filthy daft beaft fucksherfel: Hute, lays Tom, if that be all, I’ll fccure her of that. O! can ye do’t, faid (he,bad kcnd what, had a don’t, ye wadna gotten fiA well, fays Tom, I’ll tell you what to do, tak 1cow’s price I gave you juft now, and tye it hiltand faft in your napkin, and give it to me throe*beneath the cow’s wame, and I’ll give you the nlkin over the cow’s back, and I’ll lay my life forthat fhe’ll never fuck herfel in my aught; I ’well, faid Ihe, I’fe do that an’ there fhou’dwitchcraft in’t, fo Tom no fooner got it throibelow the cow’s wame, than he loofes out his rney, and puts it in his own pocket, and gavewife again her napkin over the cow’s back, accc ;ingly- as he told her, faying, now wife, you hyour cow and I my money, and ftie’ll never fherfekin my aught, as I told you: O dole, cried :Wife, is that your cure, ye’ve cheated me, yt rcheated me.CHAP. III.* I<s*TnOM being very fcarcc of money at a time w this rent was to pay, and though he was * 'acquainted with the butchers in Edinburgh, he t" ;feverals of them, yet none of them would lend :■as much, he was known to be fuch a noted (bar; tTom thinks with himfelf, that he would give ft !all a bite in general, who had refilled him; Sc;i 7 ]lie comes next day (and all of them had tmard of afine fat calf he had feeding) comes to 'one of the: ratchets, and tells him, he was going to fell the fat::alf he had at home. Well, faid the butcher, ande what will you have for itjuft h.ve and thirty Hid¬ings, fays Tom: No, fays the butcher, by what I; tear of it, I will give yow thirty. Na, na, faysTom, you muft remember, that is not the price oft, but give me twenty fhiilings juft now, and fendout your lad to-morrow, and we’ll perhaps agree a-xrat it. Thus Tom went through ten of them in>ne day, and got twenty fhiilings from each of.hem, and kept his fpeech againft the lav/, forwhatever they offered him for his calf, he told themo remember, that v/as not to be the price of it, butgive me twenty (hillings juft now, and fend outyour lad on the morrow morning, and perhapswe’ll agree, was all that paffed. So Tom cameSome with his ten pounds, and paid his rent; andarly next morning, one of the butchers fent out histd to Tmthian Tom’s for the calf, and as he wasaoutamile out of town, he went to an ale-houfeoor, and there he calls for a bicker of ale, and ase v/as drinking it, up comes another butcher’s ladon the fame errand, he being called by the firft tocome and drink, which caufed another bicker; thenup comes other tv/o on the lame errand, again fixmore, which made out the ten, and every told hewas going to Lothian Tom’s for a calf, which madethem -think Tom had gathered together all thecalves of the country-fide : So they came to Tom’shoufe, and every one called for his calf, and hiscalf, and Tom had but one calf to ferve them all:which he took and fhowed them. Now, fays he,. Whoever gives moft fer it lhall have it, or I’ll putit to a roup, What, faid they, our rnafter boughtit[81it yexterday. Thea, fays Tom, you would be foolto buy it to day, for it is heavy to carry, and falhous to lead, you muft all go home without it: Netday Tom got ten fummonfes, to anfwer at the ini )tance of the batchers for felling his calf and not de ■livering if. Tom then goes to Edinburgh, gets th ;ablefi: lawyer in town for that purpofe, tells him th !whole of what paft, from firft to lafi. Then fait ;the lawyer, as they cannot prove a bargain, den'you the paying of the money again, and if you’J ■give me the calf, I’ll bring you off; but rememberin law there is no point like that of denial. Tincalf, fays Tom, you’ll not want the calf and a fton» rof butter to make it ready with. Then the lawye ■;goes to the court, where Tom was called uponthe lawyer anfwers firft, who adced the butchersif they could tell the price of the calf or prove th»bargain ? They anfwered, no, but he ordered us tcfend out our lads, and we would agree about it.—Agree about it, faid the judges! why do you come ito fee for a bargain, and to agree about it yet.? Ay 1but faid they, we want twenty ihillings a piece from :him of the money we gave him. Tom is called up^on, then faid the judges, Did you borrow twentiIhillings of any of thefe men ? Not I, my Lord, 1came indeed afking the loan of money from them,but they would lend me none, and then I came nextday beggar-wife, and they were fo generous as tagive me twenty (hillings the piece. But, faid thejudge, was not you to give it back again ? I neverpromifed, nor never intended it at all, my Lord,for what is given to the poor, is given gratis, and Iappeal to this whole court, that whatever penceany of you give to the poor, that you look not foeany of it back again. Then Tom was freed at thebar, and the butchers loft and were laughed at.Aftera[ 0 ]After the courts Tom arid tlie Lawyer had a Isear-bottle, and at parting the lawyer faid, now mindom, and fend me in the calf to-morrow. O yes,ys Tom, but you muil: lirft fend me out forty ihii-igs for it. What, fays the lawyer, did you notomife me it, and a ftone of butter to make it rea-r with, for gaining your plea? But, lays Tom,d you not tell me, that die only point of the law, as to deny ? and you cannot prove it: fo I’ll fell; y calf to them that will give mofb for it; and if! >u have learned me law, I have learned you rogue-;r to your experience ; fo take this as a reward forpiping me to cheat the butchers, and now I think:! m even with you both. And this was ail the law-feifi m got of Tom.m m >• ' ^ ■ A:•?1,<itislirjji:1-gJiv'v'.CfOoy'jsM'jmzzzn: ^:y.z*rr ■.jd.l\A COPY OF ASUMMONSFOR ANY DR.UNKFNPERSON.AT TIPPLING-HOOLY, THE DAY OFGEORGE R.'I^/'HEREAS it is humbly meant and fhownUs, by our Lovite, Sir Allan MaltMaitcorn, that Youhave been guilty of’ the beaflly and abominable fof DRUNKENNESS, whereby You ruin your froily, murder your health, and will foon turn ( .not already) brifle-fac’d, fcarlet-nos’d, light-footeuand giddy headed; That you attempted to wa!on the crown of your head, when, according to tfcuftom of this, and every other well-governe :realm, or town, You ought to have walked on titfoies of your feet; All which can be well proveragaiaft You.T John Tuwtler MefTenger, being depute reX ceiver of all DRUNKEN-GROATS in th l>Realm, do therefore, in name and authority, of th ‘Members of our Parliament, lawfully fummonrwarn, and charge You, the laidto pay to me, here prefen ■die fum of FOUR SHILLINGS, Scots money.-7j if you voluntarily confefs your fault, You fnalli only one equal half of the laid fum; bat if Youun contumacious, the aforefaid fum lliall be re-aled (toties quoties.) 1 therefore, in name andiority above-mentioned, do prohibit You, ayuntil you make fatisfadlion for the forefaidjes, from frequenting all or any public fairs,al-houfes, ale-houfes, baudy-houfes, oyfter cel-, and dram-lhops; and from the company of■ lcco fmoakers, gin drinkers, and fnuff-takers.—o in the fame name and authority, debar Youn filhing in Healty Loch or Skelty Loch, orrunning pool, or ftanding pool, until fatisfac-be made.further, as it has been found proven, that Youe be^n guilty of that abominable and notoriousne of Drunkennefs, I therefore defire and re-■e, that You make fpeedy and immediate pay¬'ll of the fum above fpeciijed, and that withinfpace of three minutes after this fummons andreet is read : And in cafe of non-payment, af-this warning, I then proceed, by Virtue of myInmillion above-mentioned, to prohibit and de-You from being received into any company orjiety whatever, from the northmoft part ofitenland to the fouthermoft part of Wales, onn of being put to the Horn, 8cc. See. See.11 s to our fheriffs of our fheriffdoms, ftewarts of; tewarties, and bailies of regalities, and all others,he officers and executors of our law, to interpofeheir power and authority to affift us in the exe-rution of this our decreet, it being conform toI aw.yen at our Court, day and date above-mentioned,atUlT/i-PWlSlf* ncrii uic: uj.1 3.d|i'.!Jill-f s'.; before thefe wiinea-.. -. Sir T, a. Sir Genroe Thirily-Thra'ale, Iel-bi. r* t ia ]at the Cock-head, near the Barrto rile Gimas Dr.:..-a. Sir George immy.Hebert Scuds, hit Oamuel .t>i el. Sir VYiMWort, and Sir Aliau hi.'.!: of Maltcora,Knights of good Stout Brown, &cJehus Tumb