AWorthy Mafter Betray’d,TO WHICH ARE ADDED,Ad. ©uneja’s Vi&orjrover fc&c Dutch Fleet.THE BAY OF B T S C A * O.CAULD KAIL IN ABERDEEN.Frintci’ by J. zvA M. P^bcrtfon* SalKr'iAef, 1802.. t * )A WCRTHT MASTER E£TB.AY‘n.C E l a c’icfen m€inbc? was,[ highly was refpecled,\n Lock^rules and taught in fchools, ,three times I was defied.Fbc'd in-my chair, by rule and fquare,my friends they feem'd to pruife me,Audi'-: uoitie they did agree,Gfand Mafter for to raife meL-J de dal, lal de dal, lad ad|e al ct da!,la al ndle al da .die.i being rais’d to a high degree,toy frieods they all allow’d;With armour Ujght r’owo by my fivle,yy fqnari, my rule, my truel;Whec that jovial band join'd hafid in hand,all h an ancient order*;The \\or>d wcffi round with a heav’nly foued,lyom each tirtangltdcorner, Lal de dal, &c*l tielhj rrifpu to a high degree,my friends rbey were contented, : «No jarring notfe they feein’d to raife^nor ft five for to prevent it:Ifcril at iatf that hclpfh bead,that in the air,doth hover.In a long b!V-k drefs he did appear,my watchful guard tQ cover. Lal de, &c.( 3 )As down by SodwiTi’s ft inkingwith my falfc friend i v?and’red,And as we walked and-cogger tciiked,and ftill I was a p.^nd’ring :Six llam'ng darts both keen and {harp,were all preftntcd to me,If that one foot farther . I would go, 'they fare would all undo me. Lai de. Src,O brother Hugh, it was to youfor juft ice 1 relied.Bat you Peter like, the pafs forfack,and foon you did retire :You fold your friend.iu'time of nced^in trouble and diftfter; ,For the fake of wine, you did incline,to fell i, worthy Maker. Lai S>e dal, SicfThree Hebrew cluldren once there was, vwere call into the fire.And faifely they were then betray’d,i by finding out a liar:But they ftruck the reck with Aaron’s red*and this .’ley did perform fir;That rejefted itone which is well known, •became head of the corner. Lai de, &cRepent like Peter for your crimes,and pray to God for pardon,L As Efaa did ia ancient times(a bldfifig Irom Ids father.How can you (land before the Lamb,and all your deeds difeover $■ . , { 4 )ia-iron chains you fhah remain, .for fhe harming of year brother. Lai, etcBat ao\7 Tm fr*. t of care and flrife,of Lodge-rales and attendance.Where I can ramble where l will, *no brother being offended :iUid £ can fit aod take a glafs,all at a id fine hoar ;And kifs and toy T/'irh a bonny lafs,wht^j cffere’s none to gloom or glour.La! do dal, al de dal lal adic, al de dal la!lal de ciadle al de da de.Ad, J)uo.(*ri’s Vitffory over the Dutch FleetC‘lQ M F ?1! couragfoui Britons bold,'j and hiten unto me ;And likewife all you feamen brave,that are by land and fea:A glorious vici'ry 1*11 unfold,there never yet was fucii.By gallant Adniiral Duncangain’d o’er the perfidious*l5^.tali.'iftie eleventh of Oclober, hoys,fliould never be forgot,That brave Admiral Duncan,' our bra%'e heroic Scot,While riding in the Tex el,it luckily fell oat,' fmeiligence was brought, to him,the Dutch fke: had ircic cr.( 5 )!ls quick as lighi’niog ioftamly,the bloody flag apfpiarM,iJpwn with the Dutch from (hip to fliipI throughout the fleet was heard:i Ggca! -for a chacc then,from the, fore ••top was hurl’d,liad ev’ry £ail thut we could hoiil,Was prefently unfurl’d.' .. V • ' 'The winds propitious al! fprung up,tc aid our good detign;Wc prefentiy came up with them,and foon we broke their line :Then fome we rak’d from fore to aft,and others they did flnke }To fuch confufloc they were brought,there ne’er wete feea the like.:\s winter does tet fummer yield,de ’Vinter he did flrike ;tiikad then their hearts did mdt away,Uke faow upon a dyke :[Then nine g£ tWir fleet we toojt,the others run away \| hope that Britons never willforget the glorious day.itfow to conclude, May Hcav’a defend,eacli honed Britiflx Tar,tAnd may they be fafe guardedfrom deadly wounds and fears,her Ad:a al Duncan’s health go roundfcis efficers and me a,( 6 )Atid JDay t&e King and Countryprove very kind to them.The B ;VY oi BISCAYYO U G'cnuemcu of England,that live at home ?.t eafO little do.yen kut:Y/the daagtn of ttie ftas ;WLob wo receive, our ordtrs,we ate oblig'd to go,Crofs t-he main to proud Spain,let tbe wind blow high or low.The fifteen day of Augn?from Sphhesd we fet iaif,With the Ratnfay in our company*bk.fi: with a pleafant gale jAnd fo wc fail’d togetlverto the Pay of Sikay O..Whf;re a dreadful florin came on.,and the wind began to blow.The Rr.mfay then Ihe left us,flic could no longer flay,And through dill refs of weatherfic.n u<f they bote awayvWhen they c-’tne tc Ciur dtar,’they told the p?. • .;They thought we •• ' -ofi ♦ia the Bay of JBiicay <j.vn as Provulcoce weald have if,it was not quite fc bad;er firft we loft our mairwr.aft,and then we loft our flag;»then we loft our mizen-njaft,two ol our guns alfo ji.nd five of oui men w^ere drown'dia the £ay of Bifcay O.ad when our main-maft went away,it gave a dreadful ftroke;md in our larboard quarter,a great’hole there was broke ;uhe fea came beating in,which made our gun-room How,iind thus we boldly plow’d -in the Bay of difeuy 'J.! being both daik and difinal,a, at twelve o’clock at night,inr Captain in the fipcocaftle,r was kilted there out-right jfrhe rings upon his* fingersi in pieces burft ia two;ii'tere.jie lay till next day,! then we over-board him threw.!re lay in this conditionfor fev-n or eight days,ur furnace being broken down,wiiich put us in amaze ;to viftuals then could wc got drollas l am very fare $( 8 )We did cat ail raw meattill we came to Gibnrftai*.i^orm then being over,we hoi fled out our jury-mail,And fail'd for Gibraltar,te which wc came at lafl;When we came to Gibraltar,onr Ung-boat on tltore did go.For to tell what befd usin the Bay cf Bifcay O,When we came to Gibraltar,we lay in the New Mould,The people came flocking down,.our fhip for to behold ;They faid it was a Ihockitu* %ht,as ever they ciid know ;We nev$r pine, but drinks good wine,to drown all our wo.CAULD KAIL in ABERDEEN.A U L D be the rebels cafl,*, j bpprefiers bafe and bloody]I hope we‘)l fee tbum at the laflhung a* up in a v/codyBlcfs’d be he of worth and fame,• and ever high his ft uioh,That bravely (lands in the defence,of Cotdaeuce, King. ?.cd Nadon.Clctgcw, FrinKd by J. St M. ifcbe/tfon, PshraaVtict, -aSol