THEWONDERFUL AND SURPRISINGHISTORY OFJACKTHEGIANT-KILLER.iCOMPREHENDINGAUTHENTIC and BRIEF DETAILSOF THEGLORIOUS ATCHIEVEMENTSPerformed by him.v as*-.' ^***A.yIIP STIRLING:Printed and Sold by M. RandallTHEHISTORY ■OFJACK and the GIANTS,t ■ . ; y\l :_ CHAP. I.Of his Birth and Parentagey and how hediscoursed with a country Vicar, whenhe was but seven years old,I* the reign of King Arthur, near,the land’s end oi England, namely,the county of Cornwall, there lived awealthy farmer who had one only son,commonly known by the name of Jackthe Giant killer. He was brisk and of a^ lively ready wit j so that Whatever ho*)HISTORY OF JACKcould not perform by force & strength .he compleated by ingenious wic and ,policy. Never was any person heard!of that could worst him, nay, the verylearned many times he baffled by hi.,cunning, sharp, and ready inventions.For instance, when he was no morethan seven years of age, his father, thefarmer, sent him into the field to Iookafter his oxen, which were then feed¬ing in a pleasant pasture: a countryvicar by chance one day coming acrossthe field, called to Jack, and askedhim several questions; in particular,How many commandments there were:Jack told him, there were nine. Theparson replied, There are ten. Nay,quoth Jack, master parson, you areout in that, it is true there were ten ;but you broke one of them with yourmaid Margery. The parson replied, JThou art an arch wag, Jack: WelMmaster parson, quoth Jack, you haveasked me one question, and I have an¬swered it; I beseech you let me asklyou another. Who made these oxen 'Hill 6UM' muu. U(The parson replied, God made them,child. You are out again, quoth Jack,| for God made them bulls, but my fa-I ther and his man Hobson made oxenI of them. The parson finding himself! fool’d trudged away, leaving Jack in a; fit of laughter.CHAP. II.\ How a Giant inhabited the Mount ofCornwall, and of the great spoil whichhe made in the neighbouring lands*IN those days the Mount of Cornwallwas kept by a huge and monstrousGiant, of eighteen feet in height, andabout three yards in compass, of a fierceand grim countenance, the terror of allthe neighbouring towns and villages :his habitation was in a cave, in themidst of all the mount, neither wouldhe suffer any living creature to inhabitnear him. PJis feeding was upon other6)HISTORY 01? JACKmen’s Cattle, which often became hi;prey, for. whensoever he had occasiorfor food, he would wade over the main |land, where he would furnish himsell|with whatever he could find. For thepeople at his approach would forsaketheir habitations ; then he would seizeon their cows and oxen, of which he’dthink little of carrying over on his backhalf a dozen at a time; and as for theirsheep and hogs, he would tie themround his waist like a buneh of bande-jfiers. This he for many years hadpractised in Cornwall, which was muchimpoverished by him.But, one day Jack coming to thetown-hall, where the magistrates weresitting in consultation about the Giant,he asked them what reward they would. \give to any person that would destroyhim ? They answered, he should haveall the Giant’s treasure in recompence.Quoth Jack, then I myself will under¬take the work.■CHAP. IILlHow Jack slew this monstrous Giant: andJrom that time was called Jack theGiant-killer,b"ACK having undertaken his task,he furnishes himself with a horn,spade and pick-ax, and over to theMount he goes, in the beginning of adark winter evening, where he fell towork, and before morning had diggeda pit two and twenty feet deep, andalmost as broad, and covered thesameover with long sticks and straw ; thenstrewing a little of the mould upon it,it appeared like plain ground.This done, Jack places himself onthe contrary side of the pit, just aboutthe dawning of the day, when puttinghis horn to his mouth, he then blewTan-Twivie, Tan-Twivie. This un¬expected noise roused die Giant, whoS)HISTORY OP JACKcame roaring towards Jack, crying out,You incorrigible villain ! are you comehere to disturb my . rest; you shalldearly pay for itj satisfaction I willhave, and it shall be this; I will takeyou whole and broil you for my break¬fast". Which words were no soonerout of his mouth, but he tumbled head¬long into the deep pit, vwhose heavyfall made the very foundation of theMount to shake.O Giant! quoth Jack, where are younow ? faith you are gotten into Lob’s-pond, where I will plague you for youjrthreatning words. What do you thinknow of broiling me for your breakfast ?will no other diet serve but poor Jack.Thus having tantalized the Giant for awhile, he gave him a most weightyknock upon the crown of the head withhis pick ax, that he immediately tum¬bled down, and giving a most dreadfulgroan, expired. This done, Jack threwthe earth in upon him, and so buriedhim: then going and searching the cavehe found a great quantity of treasure.4THE GIANT KILLER.(9Now, when the Magistrates whoemployed him, heard the work wasover, they sent for him, declaring, thathe should henceforth be called Jackthe Giant killer. And in honor there¬of, they presented him with a sword,together with a fine embroidered belt,on which these words were wrote inletters of gold.Here’s the right valiant Cornish man.Who slew the Giant Cormilian.CHAP. IV.How Jack was surprised by a Giant^while he was asleep; and of the dan¬ger he went through before he obtainedhis liberty, SsV,THE news of Jack’s victory wassoon spread over all the westernpart, so that another huge Giant,named Blunderboar, hearing of it, vow¬ed to be revenged on Jack, if it ever10)HISTORY OF JACKwas his fortune to light on him. This iGiant kept an enchanted castle, sit- ?uat«d in the midst of a lonesome wood.Now Jack about four months after,.walking near to the borders of the saidwood, in his journey towards Wales,he grew weary, and therefore sat him¬self down by the side of a pleasantfountain, where a dead sleep suddenly!seized on him: at which the Giant!coming there for water, found him, andby the lines written on his belt, knewhim to be Jack that killed his brotherGiant; and therefore, without makingany words, he throws him upon hisshoulder, for to carry him to his en¬chanted castle.Now as they passed through a thick¬et the ruffling of the bows awakenedpoor Jack, who finding himself in theclutches of the Giant, was strangelysurprised, yet it was but the beginningof his terror, for, entering within thefirst walls of the castle, he beheld theground all covered with bones & scullsof dead men. The Giant telling Jack,THE GIANT KILLER.(U■tliac u his bones would enlarge thenumber he saw,” This said, he bro’thim into a large parlor, where he be¬held the bloody quarters of some thatwere lately slain, and in the next roomwere hearts and livers, when the Giantto terrify Jack, told him, “ that men’shearts and livers were the choicest ofhis diet, for he commonly, as he said,eat them with pepper and vinegar ; add¬ing, that he did not question but hisheart would make him a dainty bit.”This said, he locks up poor Jack in anupper room, leaving him there, whilehe went to fetch another Giant, livingin the same wood, that he might be par¬taker of the pleasure which they wouldhave in the destruction of poor Jack.Now, while he was gone, dieadfulshrieks and cries affrighted Jack, espe¬cially a voice which continvially cried,Do what you can to get away,Or you’ll become the Giants yrcy;He's gone to fetch his brother, who,Will kill, likewise devour you too.This dreadful noise so alarm’d poorJack that he was like to run district-12) HISTORY OF JACKed, then going to the window, afar off,he saw the twro Giants coining together.Now, quoth Jack to himself, my deathor deliverance is at hand.There was strong cords in the roomby him, of which he takes two, at theend of which he made a noose; andwhile the Giant was unlocking the irongate, he threw the rope over each oftheir heads, then drawing the other endacross a -beam, he pulled with all hisstrength until he Had throtled them;and then fastening the rope to the beamhe turned towards the window, wherehe beheld the two Giants to be blackin their faces; then sliding down bythe rope he came close to their heads,where the helpless Giants could not de¬fend themselves ; and drawing out hissword, he slew them both, and so deli¬vered himself from death.—Then tak¬ing the bunch of keys, he unlocked therooms, where, upon strict search, hefound three fair ladies tied by the hairof the’head almost starved to death whotold Jack that their husbands had beenTHE GIANT KILLER. (13slain by the Giant, and that they werekept many days without food; in orderto force them to fee:! upon the flesh oftheir husbands ; which they could notif they were starved to death. .Sweetladies (quoth Jack) I have destroyedthis monster and his brutish brother,by which I have obtained your libertiesThis said, he presented them with thekeys of the castle, and so proceeded onhis journey for Wa’es.CHAP. V.How Jack travelled into Flintshire^ andwhat happened*JACK having but very little money,thought it prudent to make the bestof his way by travelling as fast as hecould, but losing his road was benigbedand could not get a place of entertain¬ment until he came to a valley, placedbetween two hills, where stood a largehoijse in a loansome place, and by rea-l4) HISTORY OF JACKson of his present condition he tookcourage to chap at the gate; where, tohis great surprise there came forth amonstrous Giant, having two heads ;yet he did not seem so liery as the o-ther had been for he was a Welsh giantand what he did was by private and se¬cret malice, under the false shew offriendship ; for Jack telling his condi¬tion, he bid him welcome, shewing hima room with a bed in it, whereupon hemight take his nights repose : therefore.Jack undresses himself, & as the Giantwas walking away to another apart¬ment, Jack heard him mutter forththese few words to himself.Tho’ here you lodge with me this nightYou shall not see the morning light.My club shall dash your brains outquite.Say’st thou so, quoth Jack that islike one of your Welsh Tricks; yet I.hope to be cunning enough for you.Then getting out of bed, he put a billetin his stead, and hid himself in a eornerof the room. In the dead time, of theTHE GIANT KILLER.night, the Welch Giant came with hisgreat knotty club, and laid severalheavy blows upon the bed where Jackhad put the billet; and then returnedto his own chamber, supposing he hadbroken all the bones in his body.In the morning Jack gave him heartythanks for his lodging. The Giant saidto him, How have you rested ? Did younot feel something in the night ? No¬thing, quoth Jack, but a rat. which gaveme three or four flaps with her tail.Soon after, the Giant arose, and wentto breakfast, with a bowl of hasty-pud-ding containing near four gallons, giv¬ing Jack the like quantity ; who beingloath to let the Giant know he couldnot eat with him, got a large leathernbag, putting it very artfully under hisloose coat, into which he secretly con¬veyed his pudding, telling the Giant,he could shew him a trick : then ta¬king a large knife, he ripped open thebag, which the Giant supposed it tobe his belly, and out came the hastyHISTORY OF JACKpudding. Which the Welsh Giant see¬ing, cried out, Cuts plut, hur can dothat herself : then taking a sharp knife,he ripped up his own belly from thebottom to the top, and out dropped thetripes and trolly bubs, so that hur felldown dead. Thus Jack outwitted theGiant, and proceeded forward on hisjourney.How King Arthur s son, going to seek hisfortuney met with Jack-, h->w they tra¬velled together, and of the wonderfulthings they performed.ING Arthur’s son only desired ofhis father to furnish him with acertain sum of money, that he might goand seek his fortune, in the principalityof Wales, where a beautiful lady lived,w hom he heard was possessed with se¬veral evil spirits; but the king his fa¬ther advised him utterly against it, yetCHAP. VI.THE GIANT KILLER.' {T7ahe could be persuaded from it; so thathe granted whit he requested, whichwas one horse loaded with money, andanother for himself to ride on. Thushe set forth without any attendance.Now after several days travel, hecame to a market-town in Wales, wherehe beheld a large concourse of peoplegathered together : the King’s son de¬manded the reason of it, and was told,that they had arrested a corse for somelarge sums of money, which the de¬ceased owned when he died. TheKing’s son replied, It is a pity that cre¬ditors should be so cruel; go bury thedead, said he, and let his creditors cometo my lodging, and their debts shall bedischarged. Accordingly they came,and in such numbers, that before nighthe had almost left himself moneyless.Now Jack the Giant-killer being thereand seeing the generosity of the King’sson, he was taken with him, and de¬sired to be his servant: it was agreedupon, and the next morning they setj4wd) HISTORY of jAckforward, when riding out at the town-end, an oid woman call’d after himcrying out, He owed me two-pencethese several years ; pray Sir, pay me aswell as the rest. He puts his hand intohis pocket, and gave it her, it being thelast he had left: then the king’s sonturning to Jack, said, I cannot tell howI shall subsist inmy intended journey.For that, quoth Jack, take you nothought nor care, let me alone, I war¬rant you we will not want.Now Jack having a small spell in hispocket, which served at noon to givethem a refreshment, which done, theyhad not one penny left between them :the afternoon they spent in travel, andfamiliar friendly discourse, till the sunbegan to grow low, at which time, theKing’s son said, Jack, since we have nomoney, where can we think to lodgethis night ? Master, replied Jack, we 11do well enough, for I have an uncle thatlives within two miles of this place; he’sa huge and monstrous Giant, withTHE GIANT KILLER. ^three heads; he’ll fight five hundredmen in armor, and make them fly be¬fore him. Alas ! quoth the King’s son,what shall we do there ? he’ll certainlychop us both at a mouthful! nay, weare scarce enough to fill one of his hol¬low teeth. It is no matter, quoth Jack*I myself will go before, and prepare theway for you; therefore, tarry here, andwait my return.He waits, and Jack rides full speed,when coming to the gates of the castle,he knocked with such a force that hemade all the neighboring hills resound.The Giant, with a voice like thunder,roared out. Who’s there ? he was an¬swered; None, but your poor cousinJack. Quoth he, What news with mypoor cousin Jack. He replied, Dearuncle, heavy news got wot. Prithee,what heavy news can come to me ? Iam a Giant, and have three heads :and besides thou knowest I can fight•five hundred men in arm&r, andmake them fly like chaff before thewind. O! but, quoth Jack, here’sthe King’s son coming with a thou-HISTORY OF JACKsand men in armor to kill you, and todestroy all that you have. O ! cousinJack, this is heavy news indeed ! I havea large vault under ground, where Iwill immediately hide myself, and thentho u shal t lock, bolt and bar me in, andkeep the keys till the king’s son is gone.Now Jack having secured the Giant,he soon returned and fetched his mas¬ter, and were both heartily merry withthe wine and other dainties which werein the house : so that night they rest¬ed in very pleasant lodgings, whilst thepoor uncle, the Giant lay trembling inthe vault underground.Early in the morning Jack furnishedhis master with a fresh supply of gold&,silver, and then set him three milesforward on hik journey : concluding hewas then pretty well out of the smellof the Giant, and then returned to lethis uncle out of the hole; who askedJack what he should give him in re¬ward, as his castle was not demolished.Why, quoth Jack, I desire nothing butTHE GIANT KILLER 21the old coat and ©ftp, together with theold rusty sword and slippers, whichare at your bed head. Quoth the Giantthou shalt have them and pray keepthem for my sake, for they are thingsof excellent use. The cap will furnishyou with knowledge ; the sword cutasunder whatever you strike ; and the; shoes a-re of extraordinary swiftnessthese may be serviceable to you, andtherefore take them with all my heart.-Jack takes them, thanking his uncle,and follows his master.CHAP. VII.flow Jack saved his Master's life; andhow he forced the evil spirit to departout of the ladt/.'JACK having overtaken his master,they soon after*arrived at the lady’s| house; who finding the king’s son to besuiter she prepared a banquet for him.22) HISTORY OF JACKwhich being ended she wiped his mouthwith her hankerchief, saying, you mustshew me this to-morrow morning, orelse lose your head. And with that,she put in her bosom.The king's son went to his bed verysorrowful, but Jack’s cap of knowledgeinstructed him how to obtain it. In themiddle of the night she called upon herfamiliar spirit to carry her to her friendLucifer. Jack soon put on his coatof darkness, with his shoes of swift¬ness, and was there as soon as her,by reason of his coat they could notsee him.—When she entered the place, Jshe gave the handkerchief to old Luci- ifer, who laid it upon the shelf, fromwhence Jack took it, and brought it tohis master, who shewed it to the ladythe next day, and so saved his life.The next day she saluted the king’sson, telling him, he must shew her to¬morrow morning the lips thet she kis¬sed last night, or lose his head. Ah !replied he, if you kiss none but mine.T4IE GIANT KILLER. (‘23I will. ’Tis neither here nor there saidshe, if you don’t, death’s your portion.At midnight she went as before, andwas angry with Lucifer for letting thehandkerchief go ; but now, said she, Iwill kiss thee, and he’s to shew thy >lips, wrhich she did. Jack standing nearhim,, with his sword ot sharpnees, cutoff the devil’s head, and brought itunder his invisible coat to his master,who was in bed, and laid it at the endof the bolster. In the morning, whenthe lady came up, he pulled it out bythe horns, and shewed her the devil’slips which she kissed last.Thus having answered her twice, theenchantmeat broke, and the evil spiritleft her, at which time she appeared inall her beauty a delightful and virtuouscreature. They were married next day,in great pomp and solemnity, andsoon after they returned with a num¬erous company to the court of KingArthur, where they were yeceivedwith the greatest joy, and loud accla¬mations by the whole court. Jack f©r24 HISTORY OF JACKhis many and great exploits he haddone for the good of his country, wasmade one of the knights of the roundtable.THE EKD.