4iL E T T E Rj T O T H EReverend Mr. Michael Potter.Minifter of the Gofpel at Kippen ;I A S A N( ANSWER of his Letter, lately fentby him to the Reverend Mr. EBENtztRErskine Minifter of the Gofpel at Stirling,upon Oecafion of that flanderou* Reproachthat doth go thro’ this Land on his Name,that he doth yearly receive Money frontRome to work unhappy Divifions in theChurch of CHRIST in this Land.^Xpb. v. 1 Walk in Love together% ns CHRISThztb loved hs, and given hnnfelf f.r us.S PCil. cxxtiii. r. Behold bow gvod and bow f leaf ant it isft for Brethren to dwell together in Unity.— ■—eg    Ry your ajfeciionate Well-wM ?ryW—-m G—-y.a l) l A B tf R G H :Primed in the Year M.p.GUXXJTIJil,-v ;■^LETTER, ere.Lanarkt Jfyril *8. 1738.Reverend SI R, VjsHAVE lately Teen a letter of your*,|i direfted by you to Mr. Erskineminifter of the gofpel in Stirlingas an anfwer to his letter fent late¬ly by him to you, upon occafionof that ilanderous reproach that[tth go through this land on his name, thath'^Math yearly receive money or bills fromRome to work unhappy divifion in the churchof CHRIST in this land, which I am loath tobelieve that he does, or any of his deaf brethrenaffociate together with him for the exercife ofchurch government in a presbyterial capacity inorder to bring about a covenanted work of re¬formation in this land, "hich is well known toall ferious chriftians, both minifters and people,who will let their conicicnees Ipeak the truphfrom their heart, upon examination of the lawsand cotiftituMohs of this our reformed achurchfrom the year 163810 1650, they will Tee.h«wfar we are departed from the way tf ourworthv, anysl-( 4 )anceftor*, who gave tcftimony to the wcrld3thafcthe teftimony they held, was the teftitnony ofour Lord JESUS CRIST, and manyofthemfealed the fame with their blood before GOD,angels and men, and ventured their fouls ever*lulling falvation upon the faith of the fame,which blood, 1 fear, hath a loud cry to heavenagainll many families in Scotland to this day ;for as Abel's blood cried to heaven for Tenge*ance on Cain> fo, I fear, the blood of thefe wor¬thies \n Scotland doth cry aloud for vengeanceon the fhedders of it and their pofterity, .ExW.xxxiv. 7. 1 'will vijit the iniquities of the fa'thers upon the children unto the third andfourth generation. Where was it ever feen orheard that fuch great iniquities, fuch as theblood-lhed of our worthy anceftors, or the burn¬ing of thefe folemn covenants in feveral placesot Scotland, was put in as caufes in «ur fall*daysas the ground of GOD’s wrath againft thisland ? Alas! it is little repented of to this day,for which GOD feems, in his juft difpleafure,to be contending with us; for inllead of repen*tanceand humiliation for thefe Sins, and our owndaily backflidings, we are daily going backwardto greater and greater iniquities, and homologat¬ing what our perfecuting fore-fathers did. Therefeems to be a perfecuting fpirit raging in thehearts of both minillers and profeflors in thischurch at this day 5 for tho’, blefled be GOD,the civil government doesnot as yet favour themwith their afliftance, to take away the lives ofthefe who are contending for the rights and pri¬vileges of our reformed church, yet they biteand devour as much as poflible they can, by oaf-sing evil reproaches upon their name and repu¬tation.r * >Utlon, in order to flop the fticcefa of the gofpelin their hands, which is an evident token to eve¬ry ferious foul, that tho caufe they have takenin hand, is the caufe of CHRIST, becaufe theDevil and the men of the world are fo much op-pofing it, and doing all in their power to fupprefsit j John xv. 19. If ye were of this worlds theworld would love its own, hut hecavfe ye arenot of the world, but I have chofeu you outof the world, therefore the world hatethyon ; and ver. 10. If they have ferfecuted me,they will alfo pcrfccutc you $ but for my part,whatever the world and reproachful tonguesmay advance againft them, I think I fee morethan an ordinary meafure of the fpirit of GODaffilling them in their minifterial laboirs, and Iam verily perfuaded their labours arenot withoutfuccefs in feveral corners in Scotland ; and it isftrange to me, or any well thinking foul, howthat the Pope or hiscmiflaries fhould make ufeof fuch an inftrument to advance his kingdomof darknefs, for I truly think, if there be any e-ncmies to his kingdom in this land, they are $and how that the Pope can think to enlarge hiskingdom by thefe brethren, is a great deep forany well thinking foul to comprehend. OurLord JESUS fays exprefly Math. xii. 25. AudiJESUS knowing their thoughts, fa id untothem. Every kingdom divided agaivfl itfelf isbrought to deflation, and every hotfe or citydivided againfl itfelf Jhall not [land } vcr. 16.And ij Satan caft out Satan he is divided a •gainfi himfelf, how then /hall his kingdom [land *But now to give a more particular anfwcr tuthe reverend Mr. cPotter j Mr. Erskine docsaot fay, that veu did take in hand to prove thathf( * )he receirnd money or bills from Rome, but thatit was oi<ly told him by a private perfon, whomhe did not name, that you faid it, and onlywanted y«u to clear your feif inaprivate letter tohim ; but 1 cannot find any thing in your an*fw r that favour* any thing of a gofpcl fpirir,which ought to be in every minilter of the gof-pel of the meek and lowly JESUS,ylfarf. xi. 2g.J,ear}t of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart.See i cPct ii. 2-5. lVbo% when he ivas reviledthe reviled not again ■, when he fuffered hethreatned not, but committed bimfelf to himthat judgeih righte nfiy. See likeways the ex¬ample of the holy Apoftle ‘Paul, 1 Cor. iv. 12.Hieing reviled, we blefs\ lei tig perfented, wefujfer it But 1 cannot find in the wnole of yourletter any thing of the leaft favour of fuch a foi-rit; but on the other hand, to exprefs yourlelf byway of banter.,in fuch foolifii like di(courfe,as !ay*both yourfclf and him open to the carnal worldto Uugh and jeer at y« u$ it puts a objt £1 in theirHands to mock and ridicule reltgi«n, and lays aHumbling block in the way of the righteous.It is much to be lamented that there is fo muchmocking at religion and thofe that worfhipGOD, altho’ thofe that are minifters of the gof-pelgive no occafion to fuch an abounding fin.But now what 1 would fay to you, and all others,both miniifcrs and people that entertain fuch re*prelac ies "n his name, whom 1, for mv parr,Take 10 r.e faithful in thecaufeof our Lord J*-SU^ LHRl l, and as labouring with all huJKO; t to maintain the rights and roval prero*ganves.of our great King of Zion- Now if youk ' that to be a u ith that is laid tohfs charge,'-■'by e.'O you not, for the love that ypu ought tohavehave to your lord and mafter,whom you profcfsto ferve, and the lore you ought to hare for th«fouls of poor finners, who ad ere to their tefti-mony which they havefent out to the world , nowI challenge you ard all others, for the LordJ^SUS Sake, if you know that to be a truth,which you, and many others in Scotland, lay tohis charge, to bring him forth from under thatmask of covetoufnefs, that it may be known tothe world whether or not he be a penlioner ofRome, or one of hismifiioners fent forth to de¬ceive that poor unthinking part of mankind, asyou call them that adhere to their way j forfureI am, if you did think right, and confidered yourgreat duty, you would not be ftill telling fuchwild ftories in a mocking way, but on the otherhand, would be lamenting the fame, and bewail¬ing the fad State many poor fouls are in that aretaken captive by that way j and you would beas bufy infetting apart falling and humiliationdays for prayer and fupplication to GOD, thathe in bis holy providence may bring him frombehind that curtain of hypocrify, and undeceivethat fmall remnant that you fay are led awayby him to no lefs than ruining principles, as heand the reft of his brethren are bufy in (ettingapart falling and humiliatioa days in feveralcorners of this land to deceive them, as you callit. My friends, it is not matter of fmall momentto fee fomany poor fouls ruining themfclves, andyou to Hand afar off, and not put to your handto help them 5 for fare l am, if that were knownto be a truth that is laid ta hischarge, whatever[, he has built upon that foundation would foon bei thrown down : But really It appears to the eyesof every ferious fuul} that it is nothing but an a-■bominable( * J .bonrnable irepfoach of the Devil and wickedmen’s contriving to put a fiop to the fuccefs ofthe gofpol in thair hands, and mar their defign*for carrying on a work of reformation in poorharlot Scotland, who hath wickedly departedfrom GOD and that glorious work of reformati-enthat our worthy anceftors brought about inthis land under the conduct of our glorious kingof Zion.You fay again in your letter, that his letter isrot good grammar. It is much to be lamentedthat there is fo much ftudying of learning at thisday, and fo little ftudying the doctrine »f a cru¬cified CHRIST: Alas' for it is much to be la¬mented that the great part of our preachers of thegofpel are more bufied in ftudying a nice andwell connefted fermon, to fet forth the bright-»efs of their parts in a fine ftile and dialeft totickle the cars of their hearers, than they are toawaken the confciences of carnal fecure fleapyfinners: The dotlrine of a crucified t HRlbTfeems as if it were an offence to many at thisday j a fermon of heathen morality feems to takemuch better with many, than a fermon of repen¬tance toward* GOD, and faith towards our LordJESUS CHRIST ; not that I am to condemnmorality, for fure it is that none can pretend tobe rru* followers of the lamb that do not obferveall the precepts of the moral Jaw, as well asth«precepts of the goipel ; but as fure it is, thatwhere the doflrine of morality hath converted itsshoufinds the doftrine of a crucified CHRIST3iath converted its ten thoufands : JI6ls it. 97,when 'Peter was preaching a fermon ofa crucifi¬ed CHRIST, it is fa id, When they heard thisthey rxerc pricked, in their hearts, and fatdc * yto'Peter and the reft of the apo fries, men an dir e-thren, what fhall we do ? And immediately itfollows in ver. 41. ‘That the fame day therenere added to the church about three thoufandfouls. Paul fays Roin. i. it. For I am not a-(hanted of the gofpel of CHRIST, for it is thepower of GO D unto fatvariot:, 1 Cor. i. 18. Forthe preaching of the crofs is unto them thatperifh foolifhnefs, hut unto us which are fay¬ed it is tie power of GOT). But. alas! manyof our preacher* at this day feem as if theywere afliamed of a crucified jESUSj but whatis it in him you are afham< d ©f ? Are you a-fhamed of his mean and low birth? Or arsyou afhamed of his low and humble con-▼erfatien in the World ? Or is it becauf*his cenverfation was meft with the meaneft andmoft defpiled fet of people among the Jews*iucb as po®r fiffier-men, publicans and fisners,not like many of the miniilers of the gofpel atthis day, whofe conventions are moft with thegreat ones in the land, while they overlook thethe meaner rank of mankind ns not to be fomucbregarded ? It were heartily to be wifhed thatyou could gain them to CHRIST by your con*verlation wirh them, and drive them from theirimpious lives, and engage them to obferve theSabbath and keep it holy, and wait upon theordinances of the gofpel, and fet up the wor-'fhipot G03 in their Families j this wouldtendmuch to th® glory of GOD, and the good ofthis poor land $ bur, alas! fat Sabbath is littleregarded by a great p?rt of them j many ofour great ones in this land, whom our churchj dicarories hath invefled with power to plantcongregations with paifors, gives little or nocountenance t® ordinances themfelves j yea manyof f(toof them do not obfer e the morality of the Sab*bath, but in open contempt of the authority ofGOD, are as bufy ah >ut their paftimes thatday as on other days of the week; and evenfome of them, who are not fo openly profaneand give fome final 1 atieru'ance ®n ordinances,the greatelt length that they ome to is to at¬tend the afternoon; and alas! many of theircarriages and behaviour, win ■ they look ratheras if they were attending In-hs and play houfesthan attending on the GOD of ordinances,Eccl- v.and i. K-^cp thy foo: mi'ea thoil gocflunto the hcitfe cj GO'D, and to he more ready jto hear than to give the Sacrifice of foo! u Lit*tie do many believe, that we mutt all appearbefore the awful bar of GOD’s judgment-feat,z Cor. v. to.- For nre mud all appear before thejudgment feat of CHRIST, that everyone mayreceive the things done in the body, accordingto that he hath done, whether it be good orlad. Now let Church judicatories judge andfee whether or not fuch men can be fit for chuf-ing of faithful miniflcrs to take care of the poorflock of CHRIST, to feed them with know¬ledge and underftanding : They cannot endurethe ftriftnefs of religion themfelves, as littlecan they endure to hear faithful miniflets prefshome fuch things upon them. But pray tell mewhat is it our church judicatories hath now intheir view in planting congregations? Is it theglory of our great king of Zion, and to getfoils and daughters born unto him, that it maybe fa id of this and the other congregation, thatthis man and that man was born there, 1'fal*Ixxxvii. 5. But alas ! this feems little to bethii deigns of out church judicatories at^ \t C ii )»!s day ; out on the contrary they Teem to havetithing in their view but to get bread to thi*nd the other preacher, that is recommended totern by this and the other lord and lairdtrough the land, whatever may be their otherualifications; and them you will pleale, tho’ou run the rifque of the difplearurc of GOD,y putting a flop to the fuccefs of the gofpel inlany congregations through this land, andtaking many to groan under foul oppreffion.)Sirs! Is bread to this and the other man toe laid in the ballance with the bread of lifetat is to be difperfed to the fouls of the hear-rs of the gofpel ?Our Lord JESUS thought h‘s dear bloodmrthy to be /bed for the redemption of perifh-ag finnersj he (pared not himfelf lor their fakes^ut vame travelling in the greatnefs of his ftrengthver all difficulties, to ranfom them from theower of hell and death : But our church judi-atories feem at this day not to be fparing of thelock, but by force and cruelty to rule over them,ike thofe fhepherds reproved by the prophet,^zek. xxxiv. 4. Othat they would confiderhowhey muft anfwer for their management of thelock to the great Ihcpherd of the flock,t the great day of hi« appearance, whenie will require the flock at their hands: Theyrill not then be allowed advocates to plead forhem at the bar of GOD’s jnflice, a* they havelow allowed by our church judicatories beforemr ecclefiaftick courts. O that they wouldhink upon that awful reproof, Ezek. xxxiv. 2.¥« to the (hepherds of Ifrael, that do feed'hemfelves, fl:»itld they not feed the flock. Ver.:«• Thus faith the Lord God, ‘Betold lamI ( »* )gainfl the flaepberds, and will require tlflock at their hands.It is the great duty of niinifters of the gopel of the bleflT d JESUS, to fet the trumpet ttheir mouth, when they fee wrath coming upca land, and warn them of their danger, Ijlxlyiii. i. Cry aloud and {pare not, lift up th•voice like a trumpet, (beiv my people theitranfgreffions, and the hoitfe of Jacob their fin.tell the great as well as the fmall, tell them ctheir Sabbath-breaking, tell them of their cottempt of the ordinances of the gofpel, and n«gle&ing of family and fecret prayer, tell theiof their prophane balls and dubs, and their sbominable night aflemblies; tell them of thprecious time that they fpend in exceifive drinking 3 tell them of their horrid turfing and fweaing and profaning the holy name of"GOD, leiyou bring the blood of their fouls upon youLeads: Better warn them in time, however illthey may take it thanto hear them curfing yoin hell, when it is too late, and there can bn® recovery for them.For my part, whatever be the reproachethat you or any others caft at thofe men, whenyou fo much bear down } call them what yowill, it is evidently to be feen that the LORIhath fent them forth with more thananordinarnteafure of the fpirit to this peor church at thiday ; howt ver their hearts may be with GOCthat is what only belongs to the fearcher of a]hearts, who will ere long bring the fecrets oall hearts to light before angels and men atthtgreat day: But fure it is to the eyes of everone that knows the conftiturions and laws of ourtforsoed church* which we in this land Havtwickwickedly departed from 5 yea, your own confci-i nces knows it, if you would let them fpeak thetruth, that what they are acting at this day isInoft agreeable to the word of GOD and tefti-jnony of JESUS CHRIST, and the HandardsK our religion, contained in the holy fcrip-lures of truth, the ConfeJJion of Faith, Largernnd Shorter Catcchifms, an&Booksof Discipline,to which we in thefe lands are folemnly boundl>y the oath of the great GOD, with uplifted,tiands to heaven before GOD, angels and men.I Tea, it is well known, that they are doing no-ihing but what is their duty, to fupply the op-nreft heritage of GOD through the land, thats groaning under your oppreflion in many cor¬ners in Scotland, by thrufting in Intruders upon'them, over the belly of all the good laws andfonftitutions of our reformed church, which.GOD in his holy providence was pleafed tofettle among as in this land ; but indeed to(peak the truth, we need not lay the blame ofour opprdlion fo much upon patrons, as u-son presbyteries and prefentees; for no fooneris a prefentee prefented to a pari/h, but as fonnhe presbyteries gives all the affiftance pofiiblothat they can topleafe that and the other laird,and lord in the land, however difpleafing itinay be to GOD and hurtful to the fouls of thePeople in that place : And it is evidently feenPy the bitter fruits of fuch violent fcttlementsjn this land, that you mar the very defigns ofthe gofpel.And nowwheu thefe men were ufing the free*Horn ef faithful minifters ofthc blefled JESUS,M teflifying againft rhefe. and the like corrup-hon, of the day and time we lire in, you andthe( 14 ^the reft of your brethren thruft them outyour communion in a moft violent way amanner, as the like panllel was never knownthe church of Scotland^ that one part of pifeft 'Presbyterian minifters thruft out the otbpart for nothing that could be laid to thtcharge, but that they were faithful to thtlord and mailer’s caufe, and teftifying agairthe great wrongs that hath been done to our greIcing of Zion and head of his church. Blefl"be GOD the father, who hath laid the govettnent upon his (boulders, and will reign kingZion in Iptght of all the malice of men atpowers of hell to the end of the world, thoutbe may be provoked, for the great back-fltdinand defe&ion of the day, the abounding of eror, vice and prophamry, and the aboundingfin and abominable wickedncfs, not to be namtamongft chriftians in a prwfeding land, fuchhorrid curling and fwearing, profaning the honame of GOD in a moft fearful manner, drurennefs and all manner of uncleannefs, lying aftealing, unjuftice betwixt man and man, fajfwearing, unlawful oaths and aft?, that ftchurch and land hath gone into of late, piphanation of the Lord’s day, abufe of the orenances of the gofpel, negleft of family and )cret prayer, felf-examination, mortificationfin, crucifying the flelh with the afteftiuns ailulls, breach of folemn vows and. engagemerboth national and perfonal, for which our landbecome guilty of the higheftof perjury 5 for tabove mentioned and like fins awful judgmerare threafned, Leo. xxvi. itf, 17, 25. Deixxviii. 23,24,25. Pf- Ixxviii. 9. 10. Ifa. xxr5, 4, ‘Jer. xi. 9, to- Kof, viii, i.Rev, ii.j.Nc', *5 j r"Now, Reverend Sir, If you and the reft offOur brethren were duly coofidering this, andayingthem to heart,you would feecaufes enoughis well as thofe aflbciate brethren, to fet apartFading and humiliation days for prayer and fup-llication to GOD, that GOD in his mercy maybe pleafed to ward off the ftroaks of his threat-ned judgments and difpel thefe clouds of dark-nefs that are hovering over our heads at this day,and not be imployed fo much in contriving allthe plots pofiible you can to fupprefs thefe menjfrom doing their neceffary duty, which GODjin his holy providence is calling them forth'toat this day} it is evidently feen by the fmallfuccefs that the gofpel hath at this day in thisland, that GOD hath in a great meafure with*drawn his holy fpirit from both minifters andpeople. Little is to be feen among the profef-lors at this day but deadnefs, formality and hy.jpocrify } a fpirit of Humber hath feized ourhearts : So that the Lord may be provoked ini his juft difpleafure to give his church up to the| hands of her enemies for the trial of their faith,j and to feparate the chaff from the principalj wheat} for it evidently appears that the judica-l tories 01 this church are doing all that they canto bring this poor church again under fupreme| tryanny, if the civil government would affiftj them} for if there were as much of a pcrfecut-ing fpirit in the civil government as appears tobe in the ecclefiaftick government, our ftreetswould have been running with blood ere now,| which we hope that the Lord in his mercy lhatlj prevent, and yet difpel thefe clouds ofdarknef*j, that are fpreading over this land, and fend glo-i riaus dayl of h^s power, that religion and fmcereho-; J . ( Itf ) . ilolincfs, love to GOT) and loVc to one anothermay yet thrive and flourifh in this land. Lex t thrre ore pray for the peace a\' Jert/falem, tbsfcace may be within her walls and joy withhher palaces that the clory o* GOT) may fhinin a bright manner in this land to lafting geneaatioas, ,$ Now, Reverend Sir, if what I have faid bthot grammar, i hope you will not blame m<for I never w is taught it. So farewell. I refyourlVclhrJu(htrt 'W~—-m G— y