TWENTYBEMARKABLE PASSAGESIN THETLIFE AND PROPHECIESOFMr. Alex. Peden,Late Minister of the Gospel at New Glenluce,in Gallaway.And his Remarkable LetterTo the Prisoner*in DuNVOlAr.-CftSTU’-j(July IC&.’-AYR:Trinted and Sold by David Macorter and C*.C1817.OF SCOTLAND M  ,-^^vA s'THELIFE AND PROPHECIESOFMr. ALEXANDER PEDEN.MR. ALEXANDER PEDEN was bornin the parish of Sorn, in the Sheriffdomof Ayr. After he past his course at thecollege, he was employed for so me time to beSchool-Master, Precenter, and Session Clerk,to Mr. John Guthrie, Minister of the Gospelat Tarbolton.1. When he was about to enter on the Mi¬nistry, a young woman fell with child, in adul¬tery, to’aservant in the house where he stayed;when she found herself to be so, she told the fa¬ther of it; who said, I’ll run for it, and go toIreland ; lather it on Mr. Peden, he has moreto help you to bring it up (he having a small he¬ritage) than I have. The same day that he wasto get his licence, she came in before the Pres¬bytery and said, I hear you are to licence Mr.Peden to be a Minister; but do it not, for I amwith child to him.- He being without at thetime, was called inby the Moderator ; and beingquestioned about it, he said, I am surprised, 1cannot speak ; but let none entertain an illthought of me, for I am utterly free of it, and3Gud will vindicate me in Jiis own time ai.u vra\He went home, and walked at a wattr side up¬wards of 24 hours, and would neither eat nordrink, but said, I have got what I was seeking,and I will be vindicated, and that poor unhappylass will pay dear for it in her life, and will makea dismal end! and this surfeit of grief that she hasgiven me, there shall never one of her sex comeinto my bosom. And accordingly, he nevermarried. There are various reports of the waythat he was vindicated : some say, the time shewas in child birth Mr. Guthrie charged her togive account who was the father of that child :and discharged the woman to be helpful to her,until she did t.—Some say; that she confessed,others, that she remained obstinate. Some ofthe people, when I made enquiry about it inthat country-side, affirmed, that after the Pres¬bytery had been at all pains about it, and couldget no satisfaction, they appointed Mr. Guthrieto give a full relation of the whole before thecongregation, which he did ; and the same daythe lather of the child being present, when heheard Mr. Guthrie begin to read, he stood up.and desired him to halt, and said, “ I ami “ the father of that child, and I desired her<l to father it on Mr. Peden, which has been“ a great trouble of conscience to me ; and' “ I could not get rest till I came home to' “ declare it.” However, it is certain, that af-1.1 ter she was married, every thing went crossIwith them, and they went from place to place,and were reduced to great poverty. At lastshe came to that same foot of ground wherehe stayed upwards of 24 hours, and made aw'a\with herself.2. After this, he was three years settled Mi-4nister at New Glenluee in Galloway ; and whenhe was obliged, by the violence and tyranny ofthat time, to leave that parish, he lectured up¬on Acts xx. 17, to the end; and he preachedupon verse 31st. in the forenoon, “ Thereforewatch, and remember, that for the space of“ three years, I.ceased not to warn every one“ night and day, with tears.”—Asserting, thathe had declared the whole counsel of God, andhad kept nothing back ; and protested that hewas free of the blood of all souls. And, iathe afternoon, he preached on the 32nd verse.“ And now, brethren, I commend you to God j“and to the ward of his grace, which is able |to build you up, and to give you av« inheri-“ tance among all them that are sanctified.”—Which was a weeping day in that Kirk ; thegreatest part could not contain themselves, hemany'times requested them to be silent; butthey sorrowed most of all, when he told them,that they should never see his face in that pul¬pit again.—He continued until night ; andwhen he closed the pulpit-door, he knockedhard upon it three times with his Bible, sayingthree times over, I arrest in my Master’s name,that never one enter there, but such as comein by the door, as I did. Accordingly, neith¬er Curate nor Indulged Minister never enteredthat pulpit, until after the Revolution, that aPresbyterian Minister opened it.I had this account from old persons in thatparish, who were witnesses to it, and worthyof all credit.3. After this he joined wath that honestand zealous handful in the year 1666, that wa;sbroken at Pentland-hills, and came the lengthof Clyde -.nth them, where he had a melancho¬ly view of their end, and parted with them,there. James Cubison, of Paluchbeauties, myinformer, to whom he told tins, he said to hint,Sir, you did well that parted with them, see¬ing you was persuaded they would fall andflee before the enemy.—Glory, glory to God.that he sent me not to hell immediately!—for I [should have stayed with them, tho’ Ishould have been cut all to pieces.”4. That night the Lord’s people fell, andfled before the enemy at Pentland-hills he wasin a friend’s house in Carrick, sixty miles from- j Edinburgh ; his landlord seeing4iim mightilytroubled, enquired how it was with him ? Hesaid, “ Tomorrow I will speak with you;” anddesired him to bring a candle. That night hewent to bed ; the next morning calling earlyto his landlord, said, “ I have sad news to-tellyou, our friends that were together in arms,appearing for Christ’s interest, are now brok-■ i en, killed, taken, ami fled every man.”—Hesaid, Why do you speak so ? 'There is agreat part of our friends prisoners in Edin¬burgh.”—About 48 hours thereafter, theywere fully contained in the truth of itv,5. After this, in June 1673, he was tak-Ien by Major Cockburn, in .the house of Knock-dow, in Carrick, who constrained him to tarryall night. Mr. Peden told him, that it would.| be a dear night’s quarters to them both. Ae-i cordingly they were both carried prisoners to( Edinburgh. Hugh Ferguson was fined in aj thousand merks, for resetting, barb.ouring, and6conversing with him. The council ordered 50pounds sterling to be paid to the Major out ofthe fines, and ordained him to divide 25 poundssterling among the party that apprehended him.Some time after examination, he was sent pri¬soner to the Bass, where, and at Edinburgh,hs remained until December 1668, that hewas banished.t>. While prisoner in the Bass, one Sab¬bath morning, being about the public worshipof God, a young lass, about 13 or 14- years ofage, came to the chamber-door, mocking withloud laughter : he said, “ Poor thing, thou“ mocks and laughs at the worship of God; but“ere long, God shall write such a sudden sur-“ prising judgment on thee, that shall slay thy“ laughing, ^nd thou shalt not escape it.”—Very shortly after, she was walking on the rock,and there came a blast of wind and sweepedher into the sea, where she perished.7. One day, when Mr. Peden was takingthe air upon the rock, some soldiers passingby him, one of them said, “ Devil take him,”“ Fy, fy, poor man, said Mr. Peden, thouknowest not what thou art saying ; but thou“ wiit repent that.” At which words the sol¬dier stood astonished, and went to the guard¬house distracted, crying aloud for MV. Peden,saying, the Devil would immediately take himaway ! But when Mr. Peden came to him, hefound him in his right mind, under deep con¬victions of great guilt. The guard being tochange, they desired him to go to his arms ;which he refused to do, and said he would liftno arm? against Jesus Christ and his cause, to7persecute his people; he had dooe that toolong. The Governor threatened him withdeath to-morrow aboat ten o’clock ; but heconfidently said, three times, though he shouldtear all his body in pieces, he should never liftarms that way. Aboat three days after, theGovernor put him out of the garrison, and sethim a-shore. He having a wife and children,took a house in East Lothian, where he be¬came a singular Christian. Mr. Peden to^dthese astonish! ng passages to the foresaid JohnCubison and others, who informed me,-8. When brought from the Bass to-Edin¬burgh, and Sentence of banishment passed uponhim in Dec. 1678, and sixty more fellow- pri¬soners, for the same cause, to go to America,never to be seen in Scotland again, under thepain of death ; after this sentence was passed,he several times said, that the ship was notyet built that should take him and these pri-prisoners to Virginia, or any other of the Eng-'lish plantations in America.9. One James Kay, a solid and grave Chris¬tian, one of the above prisoners, who lives inor about the Water of Leith, told me, that Me.Peden said to him, “ James, when your wife“comes in, let me see her.” Which he di d.After some discourse, he called for a drink ;and when he sought a blessing, he: said,“ Good Lord, let not James Kay’s wife, miss“ her husband, till thotr return him to her in“ peace and safety, which we are sure will“ be sooner than either he or she is looking‘ for,” Accordingly, the same day-monthsriiat he parted with her at Leith, he came home»o her at the Water of Leith.10. When they were on shipboard at theWater of Leith, there was a report, that theenemies were to send down thumkins to keepthem from rebelling. Hearing this, they werediscouraged. Mr. Peclen came on deck, andsaid, “ Why are you discouraged ? Youseed not fear, there will neither thumbkinsnor bootkins come here. Lift up your heartsand heads, for the day of your redemptiondraweth near. If we were once at London,we will be all set at liberty.” Anil whensailing on their voyage, praying publicly, hesaid, “ Lord, such is the enemies hatred atthee, and malice at us, for thy sake, thatthey will not let us stay in thy land of Scot¬land, to serve thee, though some of us havenothing but the canopy of thy heavens aboveus, and thy earth to tread upon ; but, Lord,ve bless thy name, that will cut short ourvoyage, and frustrate thy enemies of theirwicked design, that they will not get us wherethey intend ; and some of us shall go richerhome than we came away." James Pride,who lived in Fife, an honest man, being one ofthem, he said many times, he could assert thetruth of this, for he came safely home ; and,beside other things, he bought two cows ; and,before that he never had one. I had these ac¬counts both from the foresaid James Kay andRobert Punton, a known public man, worthyof all credit, who was also under the same sen¬tence, who lived in the parish of Dahneny,.near the Quepnsferry.911. Whew they arrived at London, theSkipper who received them at Leith, was t®carry them no farther. The Skipper who wasto receive them there, and carry them to Vir¬ginia came to see them, they being representedto him as thieves, robbers, and evil-doers ; butwhen he found they were all grave Christian-men, banished for Presbyterian principles, hesaid, he would sail the sea with none such.—In this confusion, that the one Skipper wouldnot receive them, and the other would keepthem no longer, being expensive to maintainthem, they were all set at liberty, It was re¬ported, that both the Skippers got compli.-ments from friends at London ; howfever, it is| certain they were safely set free, without anyimposition of bonds of oaths; and their friendsj at London, and on their way homewards thr«'England, shewed much kindness unto them..12. That dismal day, June 22d, 1579, atBoth well-bridge, that the Lord’s people fei!,and fled before the enemy, he was forty miles‘ distant, near the border, and kept himself re¬tired until the middle of that day, that someI friends said to him, “ Sir, the people are wrait-1 “ ing for sermon." He said, “ Let the people1 “ go to their prayers ; for me, I neither can,1 nor will preach any this day; for our friends' “ are fallen and fled before the enemy at Ha-miiton and they are hanging and hashing“ them down, and their blopd is running like“ water.”15. After this, he was preaching in Gai-| l<?way : In the afternoon he prayed earnest¬ly far the prisoners taken at and about Both'-10wel; but m the afternoon when he began topray for them, he halted and said “ Our friendsat Edinburgh, the prisoners, have done some¬what to save their lives that shall not do tkemany, good ; for the sea-billows shall be many oftheir winding-sheets ; and the few of them thatescape, shall not be .useful to God in their ge¬nerations.” Which was sadly verified tlm<e- •after. That .which the .greatest, part of those,prisoners did, was the taking of that Bond,commonly called the Black-Bond, after Both-wel, wherein they acknowledged their appear¬ance in arms, for !»ie defence of the Gospel,and their own lives, to be rebellion ; and en¬gaged themselves never to make any more op¬positions: upon the doing of which, these per¬fidious enemies promised them life and libertywhich much grieved Mr. Peden.14. After the public murdering of these twoworthy women martyrs, Isohel Allison and Ma¬rion Harvie, in the Grass-market of Edinburgh,January, 1681, he was in Galloway ; a profes¬sor of some note, who had more carnal wit andpolicy than to suffer him to be honest and faith¬ful, after reasoning upon the grounds of theirsufferings, affirmed that they would never bereckoned among the number of the martyrs.Mr. Peden said, after musing a little, “ Let a-“ lone, you’ll never be honoured with such a“ deufh : and for what you have said against“ these two worthy'lasses, your death will he“ both sudden and surprising.” Which wasshortly thereafter; the man standing before thefire, smocking his pipe, dropt down deatj. without speaking more.li15. In the month of June, 1682, he was mthe house of James Brown, Douglas, John Wil¬son in Lanark, was with him, who suffered martyr¬dom in the Gftass-market of Edinburgh, the nextyear, May 1683. He lectured at night uponAmos viii. and repeated these words in the 6thverse three times, And I will rise against thehouse of Jeroboam with the sword. He laid hishands on the said John, and said, “ John, haveat the unhappy name of Stewarts ! off the -throne shall they go, if all the world shouldset side and shoulder to hold them on.” Af¬terwards he broke out in a rapture about ourMartyrs, saying, “ They were going on thestage with fresh gales and full sails, and nowthey are glancing* in glory 1 O if ye saw them!they would flee go out of your wits.” Heagain laid his hands upon the said John,. andsaid, “ Encoutage yourself in the Lord, andhold him fast, John; for you’ll win up yondershortly, and get on your braws.” That nighthe went to the fields. To-morrow, about sixo’clock John went to seek him, and found himcoming to the house. He said, “ John, let usgo from, the house, for the devil is about it;and will take his prey with him.” John said.“ We will take breakfast ere we go, it is a ques¬tion when we will get the offer again.” Heanswered, “ No, no, I will not eat bread inthis place; our landlord is an unhappy manthe devil will get him shortly, for he will hau,himself.” Which very shortly after came topass ; his daughter, Jean Brown, was the hi st■that got him in her arms, hanging in the stabie.She was reckoned by all to be a grave Gl risf-iaa lass, but from that day never had her health,iuni died .if a decay ai iast, after she had been12softie time in prison for her principles. Thispassage the same John Wilson reported severaltimes to many.16. In the year 168(1, after the murdering o’fMr. Cameron, and these worthies with him atAirdsmoss, Mr. Peden was near Mauchiine, inthe shire of Ayr : one Robert Brown ofCross-house, who lived near the New-mills,and one High Pinaneve, factor to the Eari Loth¬ian, stabled their horses in that house wherehe was, and went to the fair in Mauchline ; andin the afternoon, when they came to tak# awaytheir horses, they got a drink hi the time of it.The said Hugh, a very wicked man, both inprinciple and practice, broke out in a railing a-gainst sufferers, particularly against Mr. Cam¬eron; Mr. Peden being in another room over¬hearing k.1], was so grieved, that he came tothe chamber-door, and said to the said Hugh,Sir, hold your peace, e’re twelve o'clock thoushalt know what for a man Mr. Cameron was :God shall punish that blasphemous tongue andcursed toigue of yours, in such a manner asshall be astonishing to all that see you, andshall set you up as a beacon to all railing Ifab-shakehs.” Robert "Brown knowing Mr. Peden,hasted to his horse, being persuaded Mr. Pe-den’s words would net fall to the ground, andfearing some mischief might befal him for be¬ing it the said Hugh’s company, he rode hardhome. Robert went to his own house, and Hughto the Earl’s house ; and casting off his boots,he Was struck with such a sickness and painthrough his body, with his mouth so wide, andhis tongue hanging so far out in a fearful man¬ner, that they sent.for the said Robert ; being13t‘ used to take blood, he got some blood of him,bat all in vain, for he died before midnight.The said Robert, an old man, told me this pass •age when we were both in prisoa together.17. In the year 1682, he was in Kyle, andpreached upon that text. The plowers plowedupon niuluck, anddrevolongtheirfurrows. W herehe sa:<t,"“ Would ye know who first yoked thisplow ! It was cursed Gain, when he drew hisfurrows so long and also deep, that he let outthe heart-blood of his brother Abel; and hiscursed seed has. .rand will gang, summer and! winter, frost and fcesh weather, till the world’send ; and at the soim'd of the last trumpet,w hen all are in a flame, 1 heir theets will burn,. and their swindle trees wilivfall to the ground,the plowmen will lose their gripes of the plow,and the gadman will throiw away their gads ;and then, O the yelling and shrieking that willbe among all this cursed seed, dapping theirhands, and crying to the hills and mountainsto cover them from the face of the Lamb, and 4"of Him that sits upon the Throne, for theirhatred of Him, and malice at his people."18. In the beginning of May 1.685, lie ca ne..to the house of John brown and Marion Weir,whom he married before he went to Ireland,where he stayed nil night ; and in the morn¬ing, when he took ftirewell, he came out at thedoor, skying to himself, “ Poor.'Woman, a fear¬ful morning, (twice over) a dark mistymoni-i ing.” The next morning, between five and sixo’clock, the said John Brown, having perform¬ed the worship of God in his family, was goingwith a spade in his hand, to put some peat14ground in order, the mist being thick and dark,he knew not until cruel and bloody Claverhousecompassed him with three troops of horse,brought him to his house-, and there examinedhim ; who, though he was a man of stammer¬ing speech, yet answered him distinctly andsolidly, which made Claverbouse to ask atthose whom he had taken to be his guides thro’the muirs, if ever they hoard him preach ?—They answered, No, no, he was1 never a preach¬er. ■ Claverhouse said. .“ If lie has neverpreached, he has praydd.” Then he said toJohn, “Go to your prayers, for you shall im¬mediately die. When he Was praying, Claver-house interrupted him three times. One timethat he stopt him, he was pleading >that,tireLord would spare a remnant; and. not make afull end in the day of his anger. t-Claverhouse'said, “ I gave you time tc prary, and ye are be¬gun to preach. John turned ■ about upon liisknees, and said, “ Sir,' you know neither thenature of preaching nor1 praying, if you callthis preaching.” Then enhtmuetl.without con¬fusion. When ended, Claverheuse said, Take,goodnight of your wife amkchildreo. His wifestanding by, with a child in.her arms, whichshe had to-hiin', '^md anther child*, of his .firstwife’s, he comedo her and-said, Now Marion,the-day1 is come that I told you would come,when I spake *f.ust ro you of marrying me.—She sai-d,' indeed, John, I can willingly partwith you. Then tie* said, “ That is allJ de¬sire, I'laveno more to do but die.’,’. . lie then,kissed his w ife and bairns, and w ished purchas¬ed and promised blessings to be multiplied up¬on them, and his own blessing. Claverhouse ■then ordered six of bis soldiers to shoot, andISthe most pai't of the bu\ljts ca_me uPonhead,, which scattered his brains upon theground ! Claverhc-'®6 said to his wife, Whatthink ye of your Husband now, woman ?She said, I thought ever much of him, andnow as much us ever. He said it were justiceto lay thee beside him. She answered, if yewere permitted, I doubt not but your crueltywould go that length But how will ye answerfor this morning’s work ? He said, to man Ican be answerable, and for God, I will takehipt in my own hand. Claverhouse mountedhi$ horse, and then marched, 2nd left her withthe dead corpse of her husband ly ing there.—She set the bairn on the ground, gathered hisbrains, tied up his head, straighted his body,and covered him with her plaid, and sat downand wept over him. It being a very desartplace, where victual never grew, and far fromneighbours, it was some time before any triendcame to her ; the-'-first that came was a vefyfit hand, that old singular woman ir the Cum-merhead, named Elizabeth Menzies, threemiles distant, who had been tried with theviolent death of her husband at Per.tiand,and afterwards of »wo .wvorthy sons, ThomasWeir, who was killed at Drumclog, and DavidSteel, .who was suddenly shot afterwards whentaken. The said Mfirrion Weir, sitting uponher husband's grave, told me. that before that,she could see no blood hut she was in danger-totaint, and yet sire was helped to be a witness to•alt this, without either fainting or c onfusion, ex-, cept when the shots were let off, her eyes dazz -.led. His corpse were buried at the dnd of hishouse, where he was shin, with this inscriptionon his grave stanc.16In earth s cold bed, x.o dusty part here lie«,Of one who did the can. as du,t despise:Here, in this place, from e-th he took departure ;Now he has got the garland 01, Martyr.Tins murder was committed betwixt six andseven in the morningj Mr. Peden vsas aboutten or eleven miles distant. Having been inthe fields all night, he came to the house be¬twixt 7 and 8, and desired to call in the family,that he might pray amongst them ; when pray¬ing he said, Lord, when wilt thou avengeUrowii’s blood ?—Oh ! let Brown’s blood beprecious in thy sight; and hasten the day whenthou wilt avenge it, with Cameron’s, Cargil’s,(and many others of our martyr’s names.) and,oh ! for that day, when tin; Lord will avengeall their blood ! When ended, John Muir-head enquired what he meant by Brown’s blood ?He said, What do I mean ? Claverhouse hasbeen at the Preshil this morning, and has cruellymurdered John Brown ; his corpse is lying atthe end cf hie house, jjmd his poor wife sittingweeping beside them, and not a soul ..to speakcomfortably to her. This morning, after thesun-rising. :I saw a strange apparition in thetlrmament ; the appearance of a very bright,clear-shining star fall from heaven to theearth; and indeed there is a clear-shining lightfallen this day, the greatest Christian that ever.1 conversed with.”•19. When the time of Mr. Pcdon’s deathdrew near, and not being able to travel, be cameto his brother’s house, in the parish of Sorn,where he was born. He caused dig a cave,with a saughen bush covering the mouth of it.17near to his brother’s house. The enemies gi)tnotice; and searched the house narrowly manytimes. In the time that he was in this cave,he said to some friends—1st, That God shallmake Scotland a desolation.—2dly, There shallbe a remnant in the land, whom God shouldspare and hide.—3dly, They should lie in holesand cavet of the earth, and be supplied withmeat and drink ; and when they come out oftheir Holes, they shall not have freedom towalk, for stumbling on dead corpses.—Ithly,A stone, cut out of a mountain, should comedown, and God shall be avenged on the greatones of the earth, and the inhabitants of tl>eland, for their wickedness; and then the churchshould come forth with a bonny bairn-time ofyoung ones at her back. He wished that theLord’s people might ly hid in their caves, as ifthey were not in the world : for nothing woulddo it, until God appeared with his Judgments;and they that wan through, the bitter and sharpshort storm, by the sword of the Frenches, anda set of unhappy men taking part with them,,then there would be a spring-tide day of plen¬ty, purity and power of the gospel, giving themthis for a sign, If he were but once buried theymight be in doubts ; but if were oftener buriedthan once^ they might be persuaded that allhe had sa'd would come to pass : And earnest¬ly desired them to take his corpse out to Arrds-moss, and bury them beside Richy (meaning-Mr. Cameron) that he might get rest in hisgrave, for he had gotten little through his life:,but he said, he knew they would not do it.—He told them, that bury him where they would,he would be lifted up again ; but the man that18put first to his hand, to lift his corpse fourthings should befal him : 1. He should get agreat fall from a horse. ,2.. He should fall inadultery. 3. Into theft; and for this, he shouldleave the land 4-. Make a melancholy end a-broad for murder. Which accordingly cameto pass. There was one Murdoch, a mason tohis trade, but then in the military servic^, whofirst put hands to his corpse. A little beforehis death he said, Ye-snail be angry where lrshall be buried at last, but I discharge you all,to lift my corpse again. At last, one morningearly, he came to the door, and left h.s cave;his brother’s wife said, Where are you going?the enemy will be here. He said, I know thatAlas ! Sir, said she, what wilt become of you?You must go back to the cave again. Hesaid, I have done with that, for it is discover 'ed: but there is no matter, for, within forty-eight hours, I will be beyond the reach of allthe devil’s temptations, and his instruments, inhell or on the earth ; and they shall troubleme no more. About three hours after he en¬tered the house, the enemy .cams and foundhim'not in the cave ; then they searched thebarn narrowly, casting the unthreshed corn ;and searched the house, stabbing the beds,but entered not into the place where he lay.Within •IS hours he died Jan. 28. 1686; beingpast 63 years, and was buried in Laird Affiict'sisle. The enemies got-notice of his death andburial, and sent a troop of dragoons, and liftedhis corpse, and carried him to Cumnock gal¬lows-foot, and buried him there (after beingforty days iu the grave) beside others. Hisfriends thereafter, laid on a grave-stone abovehim with this inscriptionsI&HERE LIESMr. ALEXANDER PEDEN,A faithful Minister of tho Gaspcl at Glenluce,Who departed this Life, Jan. 23, 1686,And tvas raised after Six Weeks out of his Grave.And buried here out of contempt.After this, the troop of dragoons came toquarter in the parish of Cambusnethen ; Twoof them were quartered in the house of JamesGary, my acquaintance; they being frightedin their sleep, started up, and clapped theirhands, crying, Peden, Peden ! These tw« dra¬goons affirmed that out of their curiosity theyopened his coffin, to see his corpse, and yet hehad no smell, tho’ he had be¥ri forty days dead.All the foregoing articles I was assured of, ex¬cept the 40th, which is said he spoke tp JohnClark in Muirbrock, within the bounds of Car-rick, in the year 1685, aod has been passingfrom hand to hand,in write. I sent a friend20 miles to him for the certainty of it; and, al-tho’ he was my old acquaintance, he delayedto give it. But I am informed, that some o-ther friends enquired at the said John, whoowned that the ioth passage was all one, forsubstance, with what Mr. Peden said to him.There are other two passages11 have oftenheard, and doubt nothing of the truth of them,though the times and places be not mentioned,viz. One day preaching in the, hclds, in hisprayer, he prayed earnestly for the preserve-mo¬tion of the people; and again and again heprayed for that man that was to lose his life.The enemies came upon them the same dayand fired upon the people, and there was noneof them either wounded or killed, save oneman, and lie was shot dead. Another time hewas preaching, and gave a very large offer ofChrist, in the gospel terms; an old wOvvan be¬ing sitting before him, he laid his hands oneach, side of her head, and rocked her from sideto side, and-said, '11)00 witch-wife, thou witch-wife, thou witch-wife, Toffer Christ to thee ?Quit the devil’s service,1 thou hast a bad mas¬ter ; thou wilt never malce thy plack a babeeof him : But if thou writ break oft'and renouncethe devil’s service, I promise thee, in my mas¬ter’s name, that he will give thee salvation.After this, there was a drscernable change inher practice ; and when she was a •‘dying, sheconfessed that he was either engaged in thedevil's service, or was engaging : and expres¬sed her thankfulness, that slm hatl the happi¬ness of hearing Mr. Pcden at that time.Since tlie publishing of the formerpassages of Mr. Peden’s life and death,1 received two letters from Sir Alex.Gordon of Ear Is ton, in the year 1725and 3726, vsince gone to his grave—shewing that he was not only fullysatisfied, but much refreshed with thepassages, requesting me not to delaythe publishing of all that I proposed;and that he longed to see him before21:he went of tl>e stage ; knowing thatmy clay is far spent, being long sinceI was his fellow-prisoner, and taughthim from my own experience, how tomanage the great weight of irons thatwas upon his legs ; and wishing thatall the Lord’s people, who have anyzeal for the sworn to and sealed tes¬timony, and savoury remembrance ofthe names of Christ’s slam witnessesfor the same, and of the Lord’s signalmanifestations of his faithfulness andall sufficiently to them in -their life anddeath, would give me alt encourage¬ment in such a piece of good and greatgeneration work, which may be tise-fid and edifying, when he and I wouldbe mouldering in the dust.ALETTER*, moMMr. ALEXANDER PEDEN,3*o the Prisoners in Du*notar Castjle^July 1685.Dear Vkusds,I long to hear from you, how youspend your time, and how the grace22of God grows in your hearts. I knowye, and other of the Lord’s people,by reason of the present trial, havegot up a fashion of complaining uponChrist, but 1 defy you to speak an illword of him, unless ye wrong him.Speak as you can, and spare not; on¬ly I request that your expressions ofChrist be suitable to your experienceof him. If ye think Christ’s housebe bare and ill-provided, and harderthan ye looked for, assure yourselvesChrist minds only to diet you, and Inot to hunger you: Our Steward kenswhen to spend, and when to spare. 1Christ knows well whether heaping orstraiking agrees best with our narrowvessels, for both are alike to him :•Sparing will not enrich him, nor willspending impoverish him. He thinksit ill won that is holdcn of his people.Grace and glory comes out of Christ’slucky hand. Our vessels are fecklessand contain little: His fulness is moststraitened when it wants a vent. Itis easy for Christ to be holden busyin dividing the fulness of his Father’shouse to his poor friends: He delightsnot to keep mercy over-night. He isthe easiest merchant ever the peopleof God yoked with : if he be pleased23Avith the wares, what of his gracesmakes best for you, he and you willsoon sort on the price ; he will sellgoods cheap, that ye may speir forhis shop again ; and lie draws all thesale to himself. I counsel you to gono farther than Christ. And nowwhen it is ccme to your door, eitherto sin or suffer, I founsel you to layi your account with suffering; for anout-gate coming from any airth, willbe prejudicial to your soul’s interest.And,for your encouragement, remem¬ber he sends none a warfare on theirown charges, and blest is the man thatgives Christ all his money. The saf¬est way to shift the shower is to holdout of God’s gate, and keep withinhis doors, until the violence of thestorm begin to ebb, which is not yet.«| full tide. Christ deals tenderly with!t’< 1 his young plants, and waters them oft■ A lest they go back ; be painful, andi lose not life for the seeking. Grace^' i mercy and peace be with you.2iEPITAPH"Open the Martyrs’ Monument ifl the Grey-friarsChurch-yard in Edinburgh.Upon the Head of the Tomb there is the Ef¬figies of an open Bible, drawn with theseScripture citations, Rev. vi. 7-'10. 11 —“ And when he had opened the fifth seal, Isaw under the altar the souls of them that.had been slain for the Word of Gop, andjfor the testimony which they held,” &c.—«Rev. vii. 14.—Also the following Lines :H ALT paastngers take heed what do you ?ee,This tomb doth shew for what some men did (Hie ;Here lies interr’d the dust of those who stood' Gainst pcijury, resisting unto blood ;Adhering to the Covenant and Laws,Establishing the same ; which wai the causeTheir dives were sacrificed unto the lustOf I’relatists abus’d.—Tho’ here their dustTies mix’d with murderers, and other crew,>Vhora Justice Justly did to death parsue ;But as for these, no cause in them was foundWorthy of death, but only they were sound.Constant and stedfust.wualous, witnessing,For the Prerogatives of Chhist their King, ^Which truths were seal’d by famous Guthrie s hew.And all along to Mr. Kenwick’s blood.They did endure t>e w.* h of enemies,.Reproaches, torments, deaths and injuries ;But yet they’re tliesc who from such trouble came,Aud now triumph in^lory with the Lamb.From May 27th, 1661, that the noble Marquis of Argyle suffered to Feb. 27th, 1688, thfciMr. James Renwick suffered, 100 NoblemenGentlemen, Ministers, and others, were execued at Edinburgh, noble martyrs for JescChrist. The most part of them lie here.-It is also said that 28,000 suffered in the lapersectuioa in Scotland.