YTHE RENOWNED'H I S T O ROF THESeven Champions of Ciffjiilcndom.VIZ,"Sf. George of England,i;St. James of Spain,Andrew of Scotland,t St., David of Walts,St. Dennis of France,Se. Anthony of Italy,andSt. Patricli of Ireland.gHEWSNG,'r.Their valiant Exploits both by Sea and Land* theircombating with Giants, Moniters, Lions and Dfa*gons: Their Tilts and Tournament* in hongnr o£their Mtftreffes: Their overcoming Magicians andNecromancers, and putting an end to their direful En-.r chantfnents: Their Knight-hood, Chivalry and mag-nanimons Mro'vefs, againltthetnemtesof Chrift, and insronour of Chriflendom, in Europe, Aha, and Africa.PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSONSalt market. 170 0.( 2 )THERENOWNED HISTORYOF THE'Seven Charfipions of Chriftendom.CHAP. I. „ ,The birth of St. George; how be was ftolen awayfrom his nurfes, and how he delivered hitnfelf, andthe other fix Champions, from the Care of iCalby,the Enchantrefs.AFTER that this our ifland (firft inhabited byBrute),began to flooriflt with arts and arms, inthe famous city of Coventry lived the renowned Al¬bert, Lord High Steward of England, that took towife a lady of matchlefs beamy and virtue, who, hav¬ing been long barren, atlaft conceived with child, butnightly.dreams fo tormented her mind, that (he wasconceived of a Dragon which fhould caufe her death,that ftie never ceafcd.but caus’d her lord by art to learnwhat (hould be the meaning thereof, who, condefeend-ing to her defires, accompanied only with one knight,repaired to Kalby, the lady of the woods, from whomhe received this myfterious Oracle :Sir Knight return horns to thy LaJy,Who hath brought forth a worthy baby,A Champion bold, of courage ftaut,Whofe fame ftiall ring the world throughout.SEVEN CHAMPIONS, &c. 3ere he came home, his Lady by lofiog her own life,brought another life into the world, being deliveredof a fon, upon whofe bread was figured a dragon, okhis right hand a blood-red crofs, and on his left leg agolden garter: his name was given him, George, andthree nnrfes provided to look to him : notwithftand-iing which, he was ftoleu away by the enchantrefsKalby; which,when his father upon his return found,he left his habitation for very grief, and ended his lifein a drange country.In the mean time, St. George grew in ftrengthandbeauty, whofe noble deportment (being now grownto man's eftate) fo fired the heart of the enchantrefswith Inft, that with all the feducement imaginable (hefought to accotnplifh her delires, and to gain his af-feftions, revealed to him of what lineage he was, andalfo ga-/e him the command of her cave, by the gift o£a filver wand, which (lie put in his hand, leading him .t* a rock to behold fome trophies of her forceries, but(lie entering in before him, he (truck the rock with hisw^nd, which prefently clofed, and in it this miferableWoman, where (he ended her wretched life.St. George then, like a valiant knight, releafed fromthraldom fix worthy Champions, whom this enchant¬refs Kalby had a long time kept prifoners; viz. St.Dennis of France, St. James of Spain, St. Anthonyof Italy, St. Andrew of Scotland, St. Patrick of Ire¬land, and St. David of Wales; he with them mount¬ing tticir deeds, and girding on their fwords, whichalfo they found in the cave, departed forth to feeki out adventures, travelling till they came to a fpaciousplain, in the raidd whereof dood a brazen pillar thathad feven feveral ways leading to it, which invitedthefe (even Champions to take each of them a diverfepath. Where we will leave fix of them to their dif¬ferent progredes, and relate in the fird place the ad¬ventures of onr Englilh knight, as you may lead kv. the chanter fnl’.Qw'ltlP.4SEVEN CHAMPIONSCHAP. II.How St. George killed the burning Dragon in Egyp;and redeemed Sabrine the King’s Daughter froiSdeath. How be was betrayed by Almi^or the blac;King of Morocco, and fent unto the Suitau of Pefiia, where he,remained ievea years in prison.THE valiant St. George, having left the other fi:Champions, as you have heard, after fame fdmonths travei, arrived within the Egyptian territorieswhich country was at that time annoyed with a burn,iag dragon, whofe hunger, it it were not every daiappeafed with the body of a true virgin, he woulcbreathe forth fuch a flench from his noftrils, as infedf!ed the whole country with a horrible plague, whiclfor four and twenty years together continued, till therlwas not one virgin left but the King’s Daughter onlyand fae ready next day to be : ffered up jn facriftce tqhim, if the dragon in the mean time was not deftroy.ed: wherefore the King, hrrfather, proclaimed, thatwhofoever would combat with the dragon, and prefsmhis daughter’s life, in renown thereof (hculd have he*to wife, and the crowd of Egypt after his deceafe; allwhich was made known to St. George, by a hermit olfhat country} whereupon he refolved to undertake theadventure, and lodging with the hermit that night,the next morning mounting his fteed, he took his jour¬ney to a valley, whither the King’s Daughter was lead¬ing by fage matrons to be made a prey to the dragon’sjaws, whom our Englifli Knight accofling, returningher back to her father, promifed to kill that enemy ofEgypt’s health, cr lofe his life in the eacounter, andfo, like a bold adventurous knight, rode to the placewhere the dtagou bad his relidence.This horrible dragon, whofe monftrous proportionwould have frightened any body but only St. George,as foon as fhe beheld him, wallowed from her hideroas den. and eavc him a fierce aflault with her wiQ£iOF CHRISTENDOM. $and tail, who nirocly avoided her fury, gave her (uch athrufl with his fpear, that it fhivered ioto five hundredpieces; the dragon coming on afre(h, fmote him incha deadly blow, as felled both horfe and man to theground ; when again rifing and fiepping a little back'wards, he went under the proteftion of an orangetree, which was of fuch virtue, that no venomous thingdurft approach unto it, where this valiant knight, awhile refted him, and refrefbed himfelf with thejoke of one of the oranges, he again entered combatwith the dragon, after many fierce affaults with aneager comage clofed with her, and thruft his fword upto the hiit in her beliy, being penetrable in no otherplace, from whence ifliied fuch abundance of purplegore as turned the grafs into vermilion colour, andthen redoubling his blows, gave her fnch another thruftunder the wing with his fword, as pierced her heart,liver, and bone, and made her yield her life to theforce of the conquering champion, who returned thanksto heaven for his" victory : With^is good (word,which was called Alcalon, he cut off the dragon’shead, and pitched it rtpon the truncheon of his fpear,rode towards the court, expeflicg for his good fcrviceto be mofi: royally entertained.At that time Almldor, the trlack king of Morocco,was in earneft fuit with king Ptolemy, for to have hisdaughter Sabrine in marriage, and having notice of St.George’s victory, fearing he would become his rival,he intended to rob him of his honour, and to that pur-pofe, hired twelve Egyptian Knights, who fct uponSt. George as he was coming to court; but the valiantChampion fo behaved himfclf, that in a little fpace hemade their lives pay for their treachery ; which Almi-dor perceiving, when he cmfd do no otherwise, ranto the court, crying, Victoria! Vifrorial The enemyof Egypt is overthrown. 'This being made known to K. Ptojcmy, St. Georgewas moft royally received by him, but far more com-6 SEVEN CHAMPIONSteoufly by his beautiful daughter, Sabrioe, who that '•fet hei ffeflions fo derply on him, as length of time Lwould t:ot weai it our, which (be could not forbea1* tcexpre^ uflto him, and once at Inch a time, as (he wasoverheard by this black-a moor King, whofe love (bederided in refpett to the Enghlh Knight’s, profferingto torfake !>t parents and idol gods, and to travelwith him v h'-ri oever Fortune would gurde their fteps;all which was by Almidor made known to king Pto¬lemy, who thereupor conlulting together, framed aletter to the Sultan of Perfia, in which was containedbis fentence of death, and he made the meffengcr tocarry his own condemnation, which-he very innocent¬ly undertook to do; and coming to Perfia, near theSultan’s palace, cbfcrvlng their monftrous idolatry, he |could no longer hold, but threw down their images fof Mahomet and Apollo, and'flew thofc who ofttred l]to withftaud him ; infomuch that the rumour thereofbeing noifed at the court, great forces were (ent^a-gainff him, whom be oppofed in (ingle felf, and fentmany of them to the Stygian river; but multitudesovercoming valour, his numerous enemies fo we <iedhis arm, that his never daunted courage was forced toyield, and let his weapon fall to the ground.There was he taJren and carried before the Sultan,to whom he delivered Ptolemy’s letter, who thereatmuch enraged, commanded St. George to be laid ina deep dungeon, vowing he fbould never return there¬out unlefs it was to execution ; where cow we muftleave our Englifh Champion, to relate the deeds ofthe other fix. And firft what bcfel St. Dennis ofFrance.CHAP. III.How St. Dennis was transformed into a hart by en¬chanted mulberries, and how he recovered his (hape,and put an end to the enchantment of Eglantinethe King’s Daughter of Theffaly.0 FCHRIS TKJSI17Vj ^ A I N T Dennis the worthy champion of France,■) »3 after he parted from the^)ther fix Champions atthe brazen pillar, travelled tin he came into the dc-J fart country of Theflaly, inhabited only by wild beads,where being aimed fatnidted with hunger, he chanced.J to feed upon the berries of a mulberry tree, which be-a isg enchanted by magic art, in an indant transformed. his body into the likcnefs of a hart (only his naturalJ reafon remained) in which condition he remained a, long time, bewailing his misfortune, till one day fhad-r ing him/eif under theJfaves cf that lucklefs tree, heheard a hollow voice from the trunk thsreof breathe| forth thefe words, “ Worthy Champion of France,know that this free proceeds from fair Eglantine, theKing’s Daughter of Tbefialy, who for my pride wastransformed into this mulberry*tree; leveu years ihoamud continue io the Oiape of a hart, when thou (haltbe redored by eating ot rotes, which being done, cutdown this tree, and thereby (ball the enchantment Ikended.’*At the end of which prefixed time, his horfe, whohad a long time left him, brought two rofes in histeeth, which St. Dennis took and ate, and immediate¬ly fell into a deep deep, and upon his awaking, hefound liimfelf returned again to his former fhape,; for which he returned thanks to God, and curiondy! decked and trimmed his horfe for his worthy fervire-Then taking .his (word in hand, proceeded t f i .ithe enchantment, and with one blow ce . iuu.!erthe tree, from which idyrd a n.t f* beautiful ^atnfe),of fueh an angelical fntrr tired the French Cham¬pion’s > tart with affection to her, and after fome par¬ley’s of love pad betwixt them, they plighted theirfaiths to iacb other, Sfid then travelled together toher father’s court, who received them with unfpeak-able joy and comfort ; where we will leave thisCharrp'on of France to relate what happened to St.James the champion cf Spain* ^A• o °c.^v"b.. WC HC H A :>1 P I o NA P. v IV.How St. James she Champion of Spain, killed a wildboar in India : how, for the ChriHian religion, hewould have been (hot to death ; and how he fioleaway the King’s paugh'er.T HE renowned Spanifh champion, in his progrefsin feeking out adventures. aft*r many worthyacts by him atchieved, came to the magnificent cityof Jerufalem, at fuch a time as Nebuzarad, theKing thereof was going “out on a royal hunting, hav¬ing made proclamation, That whofoeyer (lew the firftwild beaft in the foreft, (hou'd have in reward a cor-flet of Heel worth a thoufand fhekels of ffiver.Thirft cf honour and hope of gain, the two fpursthat prick men forward to worthy enterprizes, caufedSt James to join himfelf to this honourable company,yea, to outgo them in noble refolutions; for fcouringover the plain before the hunters, he came into a (pa-ciousforefi, where his valour quickly had an ohjtff towork upon, being a mighty wild boar, lying before hismofly den, of fuch a wonderful bignds and proportion,as isalmoft incredible to declare, but the magnanimouschampion St. James, nothing daunted, couragioufiyfet upon him,dealing fuch blows with his keen falchionthat ere the reft of the company came in, he overcamethat monftrous boar, cutting off his head; and prefent-ing it to the king of Jerufalem, who accordingly gavehim the reward protnifed; but, having intelligence im¬mediately, that he was a Spanifh Cbriftian, his mindwas altered, fhat immediately he condemned him todie J yet, for bis good fervice in killing the boar, gavehim leave to chufe his own death St. James feeing itwould be no otherwife, defired to be bound to a pinetree, and, after an hour’s refpite to make his peacewith heaven, to be (hot to death by a ttue virgin.But, when the fame came to be put in execution, notone maid could be found that would undertake it :OF CHRISTENDOM. 9whereupon the King commanded that lots fhould becaft, which fell upon his own daughter, the beauteousi Celeflrine, vvhofe heart was already fired with the love' of the heroic champioo; and, therefote, on her bareknees, earneftly begged his life of her father# whichwith much ado, he granted, but for ever banifhed himthe land, and departing a little (pace, out of the lovehe bore to Celefline, who had preferved his life, heventured again, difcolouriag his face and hands, andremaining dumb that he might not be known, at laftgot^n opportunity to difeover himfelf, aad obtainingher content to go along with him in the dead time ofthe night, mounted her on kis deed (which he fhoedbackward to prevent purfuit) aud after many dangersnarrowly efcaped, at laft they happily arrived in Spain#CHAP. V.The adventures of St. Anthony, St. Andrew, and St,:Patrick,the ChampionsofItaly,Scotland and Ireland,THE noble Champion, St. Anthony of Italy hav¬ing (after leaving the other fix Champions tra¬velled over many hills and dales, woods and forefts#came at laft into the country of Thrace, where, uponthe top of an high mountain, flood an impregnablecaftle, wherein lived a terrible giant, named Blonde-rou, that had over the principal gate of his cafttethefe verfes written:What Champion to this Caftle doth repair,Here lives a Giant bold within this place,Who pris’ners ke^s feven virgins chafte and fait,Daughters to the noble King of Thrace.AH thefe who with this Giant fierce will fight,Shall have a Virgin’s prayers day and slight.Thirft of glory and honourable renown, fo fired thebreaft of the noble Champion, that he thundred at thegate with the pummel of his fword as load as the cy-ciops when thev formed the armour/of Achilles; thegiant being t outed at this terrible noife, came running*0 SEVEN CHAMPIONSoat of the gate with a great oak tree flourifaing aboutfiis head, inteodiag with one blow, to crufh in piecesthe bones of St. Anthosy for difturbing him of hissepofe, but the nimble knight fo avoided his ftrokesby ficipping continually out of his reach, that the Gi¬ant, in a fitort fpace grew weary with brandidving fonnweildy a weapon, Wif ch when St. Anthony per¬ceived he lightly leaped to him, and with one blowbroaght the Giant upon his knees, which being fe-conrled with another of mighty force, bereaved the Gi¬ant of his life, (ending his foul into the dark regions,there to inhabit with grim Pluto; then, thanking Godfor his vi&ory, he entered the caftle, where he waskindly entertained by Rofalinda, one of the ThracianKing’s Daughters; flic Ihewed him all the rarities ofthe caftle, and among!* the reft, fix fitver fwans fwim-ining on a great pond of water, which were the otherfix daughters of the King of Thrace, whofe chaftitiesthe luftful giant attempting to violate, the kinder def-tinies (in commiferatron) transformed them into milk-white fwans, to fignify their chaftities were withoutfpot and blemifh.After fome fttort repofe to refrelh himfelf, St. An¬thony with Rofalinda ported to the Thracian court,where they were kindly entertained; but the King hear¬ing of his daughters’ transformation, with great griefdeparted to the caftle, refolviog there to fpeod his dayswith invocating his country gods, to reftore his daugh¬ters to their flrapes: whereupon St. Anthony, notwilling to fpend bis days in eafe.and Huxury, refolvedprivately to depa^from thence, which being madeknown toRofaiin^,fhe alfo fecretly departed with him.In the mean time, the famous Champion, St. Andrewof Scotland, having parted thro’ many dangers in avale of walking fpirits, came wandering alfo into thisCountry of Thrace, fortune guiding his fteps to thefame caftle whe-rein the Thracian Kine was wor!hip-ping his heathen gods, which he perceiring, and know-OF CHRISTENDOM. itmiit»p the caufe of his great idolatry, St. ndrev, like s-true Chriftiao Chanpion, taught him the worship ot’the liriog God : which, when they had rightly per-iformed, on a fuddeu »he milk white fwans were chaa*Iged .Qto the (hape of beautiful ladies, to the great joyiot ah piefeut: For St. Andrew, having knowledge it;was St. Anthony that had (lain the great Blanderou,i and how he was departed with the lady Rofaliuda, hefecretly dole away from tlje Thracian King, to feekSt. Anthony whom he gready longed to fee, and theKing’s Daughters underftanding he was gone, tra^el-I led aftef him, whofe fudden departure caufed greatI farrow throughout all Thrace.The fix ladies having travelled many a weary mile,i in a fruitlefs fearch after St. Andrew, came at laft toj an uninhabited wildernefs, fave only with b^T:s and1 favage monllers, where they were furprized oy thirty!bioo ly fatyrs, that hauled them by the hair of theirheads, regardlefs of their fhouts and lond founding> outcriest intending to have ravifhed them of their vir-i gin honours, but heaven (that always favours the vir¬tuous) had Co ordered it, that St. Patrick, that mag-: nanimous Irifh Qhampion, after many heroic aftionsby him performft, was, at the fame inllant, alfo inthe defart place, who beholding the inhumanity ofthofe favage creatures coaragiouflyfet upon them, andput them to flight, delivering thereby thofe moft ex¬cellent princeffes from death, or what they accountedworfe than death, the fpoilingof their virginities, whoafter fome paufe of time, being a little come to them-felves delated to St. Patrick the occaflon of their Jbur-ney, .with an account of the atchievements both of St.Anthony atyi St. Andrew, as yon heard before in th?beginning of this chapter, St. Patrick comforted themthe bell he could ;^ike a noble knight undertook tobe their condu&or in their undertakings, having him-felf a mind to behold thofe magnaaimo-us Knights whsformerly had been his companions la the cave of Kal-i2 SEVEN CHAMPIONSby, in which journeys we will for a while lea?e theeLll we relate the aftions of the feventh and iaft Charpioc, St. E^ivid of Wales.C A A P.vr.How St. David the Champion of Wales, by art of majgic, flept feven years in the enchanted garden of Or<mondine the Necromancer, and how St. George efcaped out of prifon in Per ha, and redeemed tbChampion of Wales from his enchantment.WE conie next to *peak of.that magnanimous Hro, St. David of Wales, whofe valiant expioiand heroic performances were nothing inferior to thereft of the lix Champions, making the name of Chrif-tendoni famous in thofe nations that acknowledge thetrue Ou 1: efpecially his aftions in the Tartarian court,are not to be paffed over ia filence, where his prowefsgained him the honour to become the Emperor’s Cham¬pion. But/upon a folemn feaft day, whereupon werekept royal tilts and tournaments in honour the Em¬peror's birth, if was St. David’s unlucky fortune tokill the count Palatine, being heir apparent to the Tar¬tarian crown, at which the Ernpewr was fo incenfedthat he would have (lain him pr.eferrly, but that in ho¬nour he could not do it: Whereupon he bethoughthimfelf of a clear conveyance, which was ro the en¬chanted garden upon the confines of that country, keptby a famous necromancer, named Ormondine, bind¬ing him by the oath of knighthood, to bring him fromthence the necromancer’s head •. all which St. Davidpromifed faithfully to perform, and, with an undaunt¬ed courage, went to the place, where at the entrancein was a rock of ftone, in which was enclofed a moftrich fword, nothing appeared outwardly bur the hilt;about the pummel thereof, in letters of gold, was thusengraven :This fwor ! cann ot be pulled forth,But by a Kaight out of the North.OP CHRI6-TEND0MT i5St, David verily imagining him(e!f to b-' that knightof the nort’i, couragiootLy affayed to pull it forth ;bat no foonar was fais hand on the L'ilt, bur his IVnfeswere oppreft with a tomniferous deep, that it was im*poihble for him to awake til] the inchantment was fi-nifhed, which afterwards was performed by St. George,whofe exploits we cow come to relate.Seven times ijid the world’s bright eye ruu his an-oual courfe thro the twelve figns of the Zodiac, finceSt. George was confined in that nafty Perfian prifon,by the treachery of thy king of Morocco, when bychance ftumbling upon a bar of iron, he made fuch ufeof it, that with continftai labour he digged himfelf apafTage thro’ the ground; till, in the dead ri«je of thenight, he afeended jufi ia the middle of the Sultan’scourt: time and place thus favouring his defigns, heccafed not to lend his affifliog arms, to work out thereft; for, hearing tome grooms in the Sultan’s (fable,preparing their hortes to go on hunting the next day,he took the bar of iron and killed them all: which be,ing done, he took the flrongeff geiding, and richeft ca-panfouj, wherewith he bravely forniflied iJmfelf, then,with cnalk upon a black nraible pillar, he thus wrote,Sultan, fjirewel, for George is.fied,'I hy (feed is loft, thy grooms are dead.So fettlng forward towards the gate, he thus fa-lores the porter, ‘ Porter, open the gates with fpeed,tor George of England is etcap&d out of prifon, andhath mutdered ail the Sultan s grooms, which hasalarmed the whole court.’ The porter, ignorantoi what had happened, opened the gate for St. George,who, with a nimble pace, never refled till he came with¬in the confines of Greece, beyond the reach of ths Per¬sian horferuen, who in vaia.purfued after. But now,hunger again opprefltd him'as (harp as imprifonmentdid before, fo that feveral days his horfe and hefated al:f;e, being forced to eat the graft of the field14 SEVEN CHAMPIONS*od to drink the water of the running, ftreajns; at lafl:he efpied a caftle not far off. whether he dire&ed his-weary fteps, defiring of a lady who ftaod looking overthe walls, a meal of meat to relieve a knight almoftfacsifhed; but (he, with a curfed frown bid him be¬gone, or elfe his life mud pay for his prefuraptioq, herlord being a mighty giant, that*, with crulhed bmes,did recom 'enfe the faucinefs of fuch intruders. Now,faith St. George, by the honour of my knighthood,here will I obtain my dinner, or elfe become food forcrows by his accurfed hand. The lady, abafh’d at thefewords, gave information to the giant, who immediate¬ly came forth, of fuch a monftrous and deformed pro- \portion, that he would have daunted a courageousknight; tho’ ftreng and luftful for an encounter; yetGeorge (tho’ much enfeebled by hunger) with a mag¬nanimous refolution fet upon him, and notwithftand-ing the giant was armed with a mighty bar of iron,the Chridian Champion dealt him fuch blows, that, infine, the giant was forced to furrender his life, and thecommand of the cadle into the hands of St. George.St. George having now finidied his work, went into ithe cadle to receive his wages, vi*. his dinner which |he had earned, but for fear ihe lady ihould minglepoifoa in his food, he made her fird to tade of everydilh, and, having daid fome time to refrefh hitnfelf |and his horfe, he left the cadle in keeping of the lady, \,and went on in purfuit of his travels, patfing thro’the red of Greece and Phrygia, until he came into theconfines of Tartary, to the euchanted garden of Or-mondice, where he efpied a (word enclofed into the en¬chanted rock, when he no foonsr put bis hand into thehilt, then he drew it out vvfch much ea(e, then imme-.diateiy the heavens were overcad, with a thick dark-nefs, and the earth (hook and rumbled like mighty jpeals of thunder, the winds blew (o impetuoudy that!droug oaks were rent in pieces by toe fame-, and then!the enchanted garden vanilhed away, aud the champion tOF CHRISTENDOM. 15of Wales awaked put ot ns deep, ■» ;re he had lainfor fevea years. The aecromancer -.fter he had brieflydeclared his forepart life to St George gave a mod.terrible groan and died ■, wliofe he^d, w ih the en¬chanted fword, the Englifli Cha npion gave to St.David, to carry to tine Tartarian court, according tohis promife, whilft he hinafr)f travelled towards Bar¬bary, where our male will now attend him.CHAP. VII.How St. George arrived at Tripoli in Barbary, fi%mwhence he ftole away Sabrinc the King of Egypt’sdaughter from the black-moor king,and how !he wasknown to be a pure virgin by the means of two lions.THE noble St. George having, after many wearyfteps got to the kingdom of Barbary be thoughtit vain to attempt upon Almidor by force of arms, fee¬ing he was attended by fo many worthy knights andyet defiring above all things, to have a light of his be¬loved Sabrine, for whofe lake he had cfdured fo longiaprilonment; therefore he rcfolved to patch out thelion’s Ikin with the fox’s tail, and gain by policy what'he could not gain by force; to this end he exchangedihis horle, armour and furniture with a palmer for his|gown, ftaff and ferip, and fo accoutred went directlyito the court, where he beheld a number of palmers,(Waiting in the gate for alms, which the queen herfelfin perfou daily beftowed, in remembrance of the Eng-lifh champion; in diftributing of which, when ftie ef-pied this ftrange palmer, remembering how he refein-bled the princely countenance of St. George, ihe tookhim by the hand and led him afide from all tl/e com¬pany, where he foou made himfelf known to her, whowept for joy of finding him whom (he never expeffed10 fee again; and after fome fhort difeourfeof her healthfind welfare, (he related to him how her father hadforced her to marry Almidor againft her will, but tho’hutwardly fhe \v,i£ linked to him, yet none bat St.r6 SEVEN CHAMPIONS ,George enjoyed her heart, for whofe love Ihe had hi¬therto continued a pure virgin, by virtue of a goldenchain fteeped in tyger’s blood, which (he wore (eventimes doubled about her neck Then delivered (he tohim, his horfeand fword with which he hdd formerlyencountered the burning dragon. And now, my George,quoth (he, nothing remains but to free me from thepower of my forced hu(band, which opportunity in¬vites us tmto ; he having with the whole court rodeout a hunting. St. George wihiugly coadefceaded toher morion, fealiug the fame with as fweet a kifs as e-ver Leander bedowed on Hero: and having gotten the<good will of an eunuch to go along with them, Cor¬ing themfelves with provifions, being galiantly mount¬ed, they ported away with all the fpeed they couldmake, parting through divers woods, defarfs and un¬known places ro efcape the purfuit of thofe whom theblack-moor king would fend after them.Having travelled thus for fame few days together, atlart the beautiful Sabriue began to faint with hunger,which made St. George to leave her under the (hadeef a broad fpreading oak, accompanied with the,eunuch, while he went out in purfuit of feme prey, to:fatisfy their craving appetite; fo it was his fortune tokid a deer, which, having cut out with his keen edged,fword, he brought a haunch thereof along with him.to prefent to his beloved iady; but, a fad accident)happened in his abfence, for two hungry lions ragingabout for prey, came direftly to the oaken tree, wherethefe two weary travellers were reportng themfelvesj-who with angry mood, feized upon the eunuch, anilfoon buried him in their hungry entrails, then thetors his fteed in pieces. Sabrine all the wl Pe behold¬ing it. expefhed hcrfelf to be the next morfei so aiiaj.their hunger; but, quit^ foreign to her expeiftationjwith fawning geftures they came unto her, and laictheir heads in her tender lap, and there quietly fei|ich time St. George returned, \vhcfail a deep, at wOF CHRISTENDOM. 17Handing a while in amaze what to do, at laft he threwdown his venifon, and with his truhy fwond Akalon,foon difpatched both the Irons. NowJBat’fioe, (aith he,1 have (ufficient proof of thy true virginity., the natureof thefe beafts being fuch, that they v.Ul bow theirheads to cone but fuch as have kept their chafUtie?inviolable. Therefore, divine Paragon, nature’s won¬der and love’s abfiraft, doubt not but.'.by fame (hallrefound for love and chafthy, fo far as Phabus dana■his.golden rays. NThen diefFed he the venifon for her which he hadbrought, and having refreshed theffifelvls, they let lor-ward cn their wonted travels, till they came into thecountry of Greece, where they foon had news of gteattilts and tournaments fnddaily to be held at the Em¬peror’s court, in honour of his royal nuptials with theEmperor of China’s daughter; the fame whereof hadlummoned hither all the moft approved and magna¬nimous heroes, both in Europe, Alia, and Africa, totry their man-hood, and by noble exercifes of arms, tomount up into honour’s throne, among the reft thefever Champions of Chriihndom arrived there ur."known to eat., other, of whole valiant a£!s, to theircountry’s Honour, jye'cpqse now to declare., ,C ' A jp. VIII.How tP.JVfft*'! Cnampiocs performed valiant exploitsin the Grecian court; where, having intelligence ofthe great preparations '(Hat were made by the Pa¬gans, every Champion relumed into his own coun¬try, for forces to withftand them.INfinite was the number of the knights aftembled inthe Grecian court, to adventure their chance infortune s lottery for the purrhaling of renown, butthe feven champions attained to. fitch favour with theGrecian Emperor, that he appointed them to be hisown peculiar chaD'!pioDS agaieft all centers, each f isfcveral day, fevro-days, together, the appointed time for' • • - • •is seven championskolding the julis. To relate all their feveraJ adven«tures.liow they foiled each one that came agaiafl them,•fwould take too mnch- time for our intended brevity;let it fuffice to know, that their prowels was fo highlyadmired by the Emperor, as v in reward of their valour)he befiowed upon them's golden tree with feven branch¬es, in the dividing whereof they came to be known un¬to each other, which fo rejoiced their hearts, that theyaccounted thatday as fortunate unto them as whenfirftthey were delivered from the thraldom of the enchant-refs Kalby. But they had not long enjoyed the fruitionof each other’s company, when there arrived at the Em¬peror’s court, a hundred heralds, from a hundred feve-ral countries, which by the command of their princes,proclaimed war agaioit all Chriftendom, in«thefe word*?“ We the mofl puiflant Monarchs of Afia, and Afri¬ca, by a genera! confent of us ait. proclaim open war,fire and fwor4> with, utter deftru£Mon to all the conn-,tries and kingdoms of Chriilendom, in a jjifi revengengainfi them for the injuries fuflained by their feveuChampions, ddlring all fhe followers of Mahomet,Termagant and Apollo, in this our determination,to join with us and take our parts.”The Grecian Emperor being alfb a Pagan aflbeiatedwith them, giving comrmmdn ert to mufter up thegreatell forces his land could afford. All whenthe feven champions underfioodv to prc vcnc'Yheirbloodypurpoles, after due confidera'ion had amongft rhem-felves, each one with his betrothed lady departed hometo his own country, there to ratfe forces to withftandthe common enemy: St. George into England, St. Den¬nis into France, St. James mto Spain, St. Anthony in¬to Italy, St. Andrew into Scotland, St. Patrick intoIreland, and St. David into Wales: the profpeff ofwhofe delightful habitations they had not beheld inmany years before; where they were moft royally en¬tertained according unto their own heart’s defire, eachUveral Prince in his common caule, contributing the:OF CHRISTENDOM. 19Dtmoft afliftance he could make, appointing the bay ofPortugal for their great rendezvoui} and all with onegeneral cocfent, nominating St. Geerge to be their ge¬neral, whofe valiant exploits and honourable perform¬ances, lhall be diicourled of in the following chapter.C H A ?. IX.How thefeyenChampion?of Chriftendotu arrived, withall their troops, in the bay of Portugal, where St.George made an oration to his ioldiers. TkedifTeatioBin the Pagan army; with other things that happened.AT the appoint’ time, the Chrifttan Champions,with each one a well approved army, met in thebay obPortugal the number of which joined together,was aloi 1 five hundred tboufand ; unto whom St.George, their appointed genera!, made this follow¬ing oration $ ^“ Fellow foldiersand kind country-men, whofe va¬lour the world admires and dreads, we are now goinginto the fie.'d of honour, and to the work of manhood:the time is cow at hand we have long looked andptf-cd for, and your work the nobleft in the world:pour forth, therefore, your utmoft forces, that agesto come may know what the lance, the ax, the fwordand the bow, can do in the hand of the valiant: fearnot ’he numerous force of our enemies, whofe num¬ber is rather a burthen than an advantage unto them:but know, your caufe is the befir, the defence of theChriftian religion, and your native countiies, whichwill oppofe all their vaft numbers. Whofoever theic-fore defires riches, honours and rewards, know that: they are all to be gotten by the overthrow of thofe1 mifcieanfs, who W'ill fiy before your valour, as flocksof Ihecp before the greedy wolf.”This foldier-likc oration put Inch courage into thebreafls'of the foldiers, that, with a genetal voice, theycried out, ‘ To arms, to arms, with the‘magnanimous1 Champion St. George of England,’ in which gallant2o SEVEN CHAMPIONSrefolution we will leave them for a while, to relatewhat happened in the army of the Pagans, who, likegrafhoppers overfpreading a country, met in the 'andof Hungary, in fuch multitudes,that had not God fruf-trated their intentiops, the Chriftian army had been buta morfel, fcarce fufficient for them for one meal; byhis invincible power, he confounded them in their ownpractices; for being about to eledf a general, each na-tion was obftinate to have their king the perfon, thatfhould command in chief; and fo eager were they inthefe refolutlons, that from words they tell to blows,which ended at laft in a moft dreadful fight againfteach other, till the ground was changed from a ver¬dant green to a purple hue, and each place ftrewcdwith the carcafes of dead bodies. Here you might feeahead new loptoff from the Ihoulders, with a gafpingmouth, complaining as it were for his reparation fromthe reft of its body: there lay an arm with a handgrafptng a fword, as if it would fight yet in its body’sdefence. In another place you might \>ehoId one whowould run away from danger, but that his legs are foentangled in his fellows guts he could net Air; here laythe brains of one, there another with his mouth andjaws cut away, fo that he could not complain of hisewa misfortunes. In fine, fuch horror and deftrnffionwas amongft them, as would make the heart of an e*Eemy to relent Thofe that remained, after this bloodyencounter, withdrew thettjfelves into their own coun¬tries, curling the time that ever they undertook fo un¬lucky an enterprlze. ai\d conUfiing it was vain for themto atterrtpt any thing againft the Chriftiati’s God.It was not long ere the news of this bloody en¬counter came tp the ears of St. George, and the reft [Jof the Chriftian Champions; who having received the H1intelligence, foon raffed,tbeif srmies and marched di- |rrefjjy to Barbary, againft the bioody king ot Morocco, uto ebaftife h;« treachery committed againft the moft-»renowned Englilh Champion.11OF C -P, R I S T E N D Q M.CHAP. IV.Theterriblebattle betwcets the Chriftians and M.’ors ioBarbary the great overthrow of the PagaaSj and howALuidcr the black king of Morocco, tyj** boiled todeath in a'brazen caldron of lead and brimftone.THE Qhriftjatt army order theconduft of themag-mhimous Englifh champion, St. George, beingarrived ip Barbary, and, with their victorious arms,turning all into ruin wherefoever they came, the coifethereof made Almidor’s guilty confcicnce to quake, audthereupon he railed a mighty hoft to withftand them,who with great conrage fell upon the Chjiflians, fothat between them enfued a moll terrible battle, eachfide driving to outdo the other in vidfowous exploits;to purchafe renown; the Moors in defence of theircountry, their wives and children. Three days togetherdid this bloody confii^l hold, the night fcarce givingthem time to breath io, but before the fun began hisdiurnal race, they returned their ftrengrh to a moreeager encounter; hoyror, bloodlhed and amazementwas on the;r fide, and death rode triumphant thro* thewhole hoft; .but the valiant St. George (whole couragewas never wanting at all eftays) being minded to putan end to the fight, fingled out the Morocco king, be¬twixt whom and the Englilh champion was a lougvnddangerous encounter; but Almidor, not able to with-ftaud the mighty puiftance of St. George, was forcedto yield himfelf to his mercy, and became his prifouer,which the Moor? feeing, prefently would havefled to thechief city, but the Chriftiacs intercepting them, madeamongft them fuch a (laughter, that not one of a hun¬dred efcaptd to tel) the fad di (after of their misftn tunes.The Chriftian army then marched direftly to Tri¬poly, carrying along with them the wicked Almidorto whom (notwithftandieg his evil deferts) upon apromife of forfaking his heathen gods, and to turn tobe a Chriftian. mrrr.v was nrrfTpr/vt vuiiUK r.22 SEVEN CHA M,P IONSwith direful execrations againfl: the ChrifHan religion,he was boiled to death in a brazen caldnaa filled withlead aod brimftcue; at the fight of wnofe death, aswell Pag^s as Chtifltians, with a loud voice cried out,Long live St. George, the viftorious Champion ofEngland, who, by his valiant prowefs, hath freedBarbary from their miferable thraldom.”Hereupon the Morocco peers, with bended knees,came to St. George; proffering unto him the imperialcrown of Barbary, and promifing to be chriftencd inthe Chtlftian faith; all which was piefently perform¬ed, by placing thexrown upon his head, and abolilh-ing Mahometa'nifm with all the fuperftitious rites ofthat falfe prophet; whereupoa a great alteration fud-denly enfued, Pagan temples were pulled down, and aChrifUan church erettcd: inftead of a tyrannical go¬vernment, good and wholefome laws were ordained :peace and plenty flourilhed every where, and a gene^rzl rejoicing was throughout the whole kingdom.But the heroic Champions, not minding to fpend theittime in the idle bower of peace, and to let their armouihang rnlling on the wall, when fo much aflion was tcbe done in the world; they therefore fummoned thenlb!diets to re-afTume their courage, and to put them-felves in an equipage for war. St George leaving thigovernment of the land, in his abfence, to four of th<principal peers of Morocco; the whole army marched di l“reftly to Egypt againft K. Ptolemy, who had confederal 1ed with Aimidor for fending St. George into PerfiaaiCHAP. IX.How the Chriftians arrived in Egypt, and what hap Ipened to them there. The tragedy of the Earl <s|Coventry. How the Egyptian king broke his oecMfand bow St. George redeemed his Eady from beinjfburnt to death at a flake.*T*HE feven Champions of Chriflendom, with thejjB . _ _ * • »Vi Mill’GF CHRTSTENDOM. 2-fappofed prefeotly to bave met arnaed troops to with-ftaod them} but, contrary to their expefktioo, theyfind both cities, towns and villages uninhabited: theterror of their coming ftriking fuch an amazement :othe inhabitants, that they hid themfeives io the moftobfeure places they could find : wherefore rhcy-march-pd to king Ptolemy’s court, intending firft to burnthat, and then afterwards the reft of the city into cin¬ders. But whilft they were in thefe thoughts, and be¬ing come near thereto, they were met by Ptolemy andhis cbiefeft Peers, all in mourning, bearing brokenweapons, fhivered' lances, and torn ancients, with ma¬ny “houfands of women and children wearing cyprefsler about their heads, all with one voice crying forinercy, and to fpare their country from utter ruin,iiing Ptolemy the foremaft of them all, addreffing hhn-elf to the Chriftian Champions, in thefe words:; “ Moft noble Knights and renowned Champions,vhofe names are enrolled in the book of fame, let myferey hairs move you to pity, and my bended knees thataever bowed to any till now, caufe oampaffion in you:out if no mercy be referved for me, let me plead for>ity for my poor commons, who are altogether igno-'ant of the injuries offered to the Englifh champion,Itccafioned by the treachery of that wicked Almidorworking upon my eafy nature: O let me fall a facrificelor their fafety, and ftain not yonr hands in their guilt-lefs blood, but fpare them and us, and we ftiall not onlybecome your fervants, but for fake the belief of our falfc•rophets, and hesstfo'r th believe in the Chriftians’ God.”,j This forrowful lamentation and requeft of king Pto-t:my, made the heart of theEnglitlr Champion to re-i:nt, fo that he not only granted mercy to the wholfcimd, but alfo life to king Ptolemy upon the conditionslefore promifed ; which gracious grant was fo welcome10th to king and commons, that all on a fudden theisople returned from iheir larking,places to their for-74 SEVEN CHAMPIONS,' &c.the boils r ag daf and night, and fo much baaqaeing, dancing and raaiqniog was tiled, as exceeded th;whicli the Trojans made, when Paris retucned fro;Greece, with the conqueft of the Spartan Queen;But this fuQ-lliice weather was foon overftudowewith a. cloud of borrow; for, in the iDterim of all thej.oy, there arrived at the court an Engiifn knight, whthus delivered himfeif to St George,,e Renowned Champion of England' if ever you e?peft to fee your beloved lady again, make all the ha£•you can unto her, who is adjudged to be burned tdeath at a flake, for murdering the Earl of Cyveotnwho, by gifts, entreaties, ssd allurements, fought ’betray her of her honour, and by luflful a&s tc tfaiher name with infamy, which your virtuous lady aways withftood: but at laft, he fioding her alone, acrenewing his fuit, with threatning of force yfjjoa hidenial; the, with kind Words, lulled him alleep, anthen (heathed his own poinard in his breaft, which c' a fudden bereaved him of life; for which*aft (hecondemned to die the death aforefaid; yet this favoiis granted her, that if in two years fpace, a champiche found, that for her fake will venture his life;he overcome the challenger, her life lhall be faved, hiU not, then Hie mult die.”’Thefe words ftruck a wonderful aflonifliment atborrow to all1 that heard .them, efpecially to king Polemy, who, in a-defperate jLood, caft hitufelf from tltop of a high pinnacle, and broke his neck. Wherjupon Sf. George was upmeoifitt’v prochitned, ano foqr.fter crowned king of Egypt; and then, IrvingChrittiao Champions, he went into England, wherejCombated with the Baron of Chefter, whoyas chadpion againfl the Lady Sahriue, whom he overcame Jbattle, to the great joy of the Englilh knight and M.beloved Sabrine, with whom he afterwards (pent hjllife in much joy and felicity.o. • .  i—. i ^ r.f , y-yanil