4Loyal Lovers Dowtifal.TO WHICH AXE ADI>ED>;THE R O Y A h 'GEO R G E.THE M 1 L K I N G - P A I L.SHORT R E .P O S E.MY stubborn he a r t,Print”U-v ■itjrf-M' S^t.-warfect, ivtr( * )THE CR'UEL FA CHER.ALat?y;s dalightcr in the weft,about the age of twenty.And (he had fweethearts cf the heft,both Lords and ’Squires m plenty.Bet flie. ador’d her father’s, clerk,above all men of honour,But {he ^dor’d her. father’s clerk,no honour did require.■ Her father oft-times to her (aid,when he alone did meet her,Do you mean fo difgrace our blood,you fond aud ioolilh creature ?To go and ntarry with a ilave,ihat has neither binh nor breeding,.Sura I no pon.em will you give,if this be your proceeding.O then hoc cored father, fae repiy’d,I pray you ufe your pleafurc,Tor I adore nvy, deareft joy,above ail worldly treafiire,Vv ith him i mein to live and die,to him I have cenfented.Kind neaven will our w^nts fupply,wirii that we'il be contented.( 3 >i Her father in a paflkm flew,and threat'ned to cfcflroy her.If that her folly ihe'd purme, *i.o clerk fubukl e’er enjoy her.0 then, (he faifl He mult and will,although yc» be offended ;I When from my foiemn vow l (ail, ’pray let my life be ended.Upon tue table ia the roam,’ a fowling-piece did ly,Her father ia a paffioiv new,and ftraight at her let fly.i it lighted on her youthful bread:,and £he fell down before him, .I. Thefe were the la if "-'ords tliat flie fpoke,for ever I’ll adore him.i When he had feen what he had done,what, have I fiain tny daughter ?i His rapier then he drew out forth,and.flew himfelf foon after.Her mother came foto the ropm,afid both fhe flcod ai viewing,With grief her tender heart did break,1 ambition was their ruin.Her lover came atcongfl the red:,with hands in forrow wringing,. •&nd fvom her-fur youthful breaft,blood he then faw fyringiog.If - -VHow could her L.nier be lo feyere :\v> , fo tevere and cruel ?Could he not laid the fault on me,and fpir'd my deareft jewel iThe beauty of all weftern parts,who daily did adore meNay, l may fay the bed of hearts 'lies bleeding now before me.O how can i prefume to Hve,all in this world behind I eriNo, no, epe fatal ftroke IMl give,perhaps then 1 may had herDown in the fdent {hades below,where bleeding lovers wander ;Still pouring out fad grief aud woe,they daily did ly under.A fword he from hi? fide drew out,and ilf.w bimfeff foon after,jaft lik' tv/o loval lovers fair,they died both together.They both were bnrmd in one grave,jcJl like two lovers loyal;Joky God preferve a?! you that love,and fend you no fach trial.  i ■■i—niiMa*OTgBWI»a«i,nrww»T H E R O Y A L G E O R 0 EOrhe fad and diftnal Rory,which proceeds from Sptrhead coaff,JE|e Royal George and nM her glory,'HSWerc utifof'.’natcly.are loll,T Thirteen luuidrcd fotrfs there peri^iM!.melancholy for to hear!Many faihcrM? and widows,mourn for their relations dear.! It was the & ^nty-uinth of Auguff,that di4 prove the fatal day^That good fhip was there repairing,before they did fet out for lea.But a fqual of wind arifiag,great’s our caufe for to lament.Id three tninmes, raoit furprihngtihip and ctew to bottom went.Such a difinal feene of horror,never mortal eyes did fee.This brave Ihip which was- a terror,to the daring-enemy.She was the pride of ali the navy,for her facccfs and courage brave,Piiy his for the brave failors,whtrhave got a wat’ry grave!Ketnpeufek that brave commander,the youngcfl' admiral we have.But ah ! both he nod his btave failors,all have pcrifh'd in tue v/aves!In battles he was ftiil vc&orious,he did govern his fleer with ikill jHis a chons were crown’d with fitccefa,hii death v, kh grief our hoots do dllThis moil melanuholy fubjccl,frc each eye mull, ■a tear!Such a difrna) feene of horror^near to SpuheaJ did appear.The.beach and'houfts at the pf ^were a!l fiiied with the deadIn each look nothing bat dejection,each human heart tor them did bleed.Chi’Jren weeping for their parents;widows for their lurfbacds dear ;The difnval ‘cries of thole were linking,did pierce the heart of ail did !\ear*But none could give the lead afliftauce,to this brave and goodly (hip,'tfow in the waves without rehitauce,(be lies fourtega fathom deep.What a lofs is^ it to Britain,in fo critical a time.For to iofe fuel* brave commanders,and gallant failois in their prime :Whofe (lout aod undaunted courage,French and Spaniards both have felt iOur cneaiies were made f.o tremble.at the name of Kempcnfek.May Heaven fupport our Briiifh Heroes,ami from danger keep thttn free.feod us one iuto his ilation,as valiant and as good as he-Heaven prefers oir Royal Sov’reiga,long may he the feeptre fway.His lleets and armies be viftorir.as,over every enemy.•> ’ ' • .v' *:.«•. .THE M I L K 1N G PAIL.O’ £ Pv. half the flcy the bluftsng di#a,her purpje vett had fpreadWhen Sally crofs’d the dewy Sawn,with milk-pail on her head.Her brow a.-? month of April fweet,her check? w^re rf>ry redHer dj> fs war white and lovely neat,as milk-pail on her heathWhile nymphs who breath the city air,their mornings Waite in Led ;Young S'aly lings as fky-iark clear,with milk*pat) on her head.Her floc-biack eves their lultre take,» #frcMt virtue on’y bred;Her bofom ne’er felt ccufcious ache,frace milk pail grac’d her-head.For coortly da ves 1 ne’er fhali fret,but rit i wetild Sully wed,Pd bbtfs rhe fpot where fit ft we metwith milk-pill on her head, *S H O Pv T II E P O S E.BLow on Toft wirtds. defcecd fafr lain,to footlie niy tender woes jYear foiemn mu fie lulls my pain,and gives me fliort repofe.The fen that makes al) nature Jpy,difiurhs my wearied eyes,• And in dark (hades ( waftc the day,where echo fieeping lies.Then pity, me, O. gentle hve !and come to my relief.Let innocence and virtue prove,a facrifice to griefMY STUBBORN dEAR IVT'EN yeats^iike Troy, my tlubhoro heaft,,withfiood the aflaalt of feud defirc :But now, alas [ I feel the fmarr,poor I, like Troy, am fet on fir$.With care we may a pile fectire,and from ail common fparks defend:But. Oh ! who can a houfe fecure,when the celeftial flames defieod.Thus was f fafe, till from your eyesdeftruitive fire are brightly given ;Ah! who can (hun the warm furpiife,when !o 1 the -ght’ning comes fromhesyec.Gtafg<nv, Priottd Ly J. & M. Ro! s-rtfoo. ,S«ttftrjrlret, JSos