Youth’s Warning-Piece ;OR, THE TRAGICALHISTORYO FGeorge Barnwell,WHO WASUndone by a Strumpet,THAT CAUSED HIMTo Rob his Matter, andMurder his Uncle.liBy others harm learn to be wife,]|And ye {hall do full well, 'r———  —”~S F I R L I W G :I'f’aiNTED AND SOLD BY C. RANDALL,George BarnwellAnd behold there met him an Hark>!fubtle of heart, and fhe kifled him ilfaid unto him, I have decked my bed witLhnen, come, let Ui take cut hll of lo#::.Until the morning.1Sarah Milwcod.{he lips of a ftrange Worairi dfcp as aney-conib, and her rrtoufh is fw'eeter thanbut her end is bitter as woi'mttQodj,p as a two deged fword.THEHISTORYGeorge Barwnell.George barnsvell was >he fcnijof Mr Wm. Barnwell, a very minentand wealthy Goldfmith in LombardGeorge’s father dying whiht he was v^ryyoung, he was i. a to the c-re of an unde, Jwho lived near _or,don Fhis gtn.lem .nfthad a great affedjpn for George andlia^ing;.210 children treated him as his fen. giving j.:him a very liberal education a ; when he jwas old enoguh, put him apprentice to Mr iThoroughgood, a Merchant, with whom he ilived three or four years, behaving himfelf:In fuch a manner, as endeared him to the:whole family.Mr Thoroughgood had an only daughter)named Maria, beautei us and virtuous aptfabout the fame age as Barnwell. Georgewas tall and handfome. of a modeft genteeldeportment, and Maria was particularly fen-",fcble ofiu( 5 )Mr TKorotigligood had alfo another ap« - ..prentice whofe name was Trueman, with[whom George lived in fuch iriendfhip, that'neither did any thing without the other,stmdvice ; till an affair happened in which alltycuth think themfvelves too wife to take •Ctounfel • fuch is the frailty of human nature!Mrs Millwood, a lady of the town* whoitong had a defign upon1 George, took care :j$o meet him in Choapfide She made a fullIflpp, and gazing at his face, afked him hissjaame ? He blufhed, and bowing very low,tnnfwered, George. Barnwell.—She beggediihis garden for the freedom (lie had taken,put told him he was the perfon (he had longi a tilled to fee and to whom (he had an affairpf importance to comnumicat, at a properjfime and place. He named a tavern but (he.ra’ked of honour and reputation, and ijivit-ted him to her own houfe ; he fwallowedtheQait, and promifed to come, which hp did,'iand was received with feeming modefty.After fome talk he wanted to be gone bufilflie begged him to (lay fupper which hewith much entreaty contented to ; and afterafupper (he prevailed w'ith him to (lay allnnignt, and to gire her a conftderable fum of■imoney which ne had about him of his maf-{fer’s. A. ((range infatuation 1 when youthtismee gives way to the aaxts of a defigningtoroman, he Is irrecoverably loft. He whotmt once fubmits to gaze upon their fophif* *tical beauties, purs himfelf in their power, |and is no longer mafter of himfelf! Thus fellas hopeful a youth as any of his time ; andla this manner mu ft every giddy unexperi¬enced youth be expofed.Every one in the houfe was in the utmoft ;confufion at Barnwell’s abfenfe fearing - 'fome accident had befalen him, for nonecould fufpeft the true caufe At his return |Trueman went to receive him with open I:arms, but Barnwell was fo fenfible of his |fault, that he turned from him, and couldnot fpeak ; but Trueman by his kind expref- ilions brought him a little to himfelf, and ][their former friendihip was renewed.His mafter foon after came to ( hide him |!for ftaying out, but was prevented by feeing ;how fenfible he was of his crime ; ami aftera few kind exhortations not to do fo again,he left him: when Barnwell reproachedhimfelt in the fevereft terms for his fault, Iand refolved never to fee Millwood more.Alas! how frail the refolves of youth,when an artful woman had an intereft in thebreech of them ! Millwood had too good an Jopinion of Barnwell’s pocket to part withhis perfon. As :fhe found he did not renew fhis vifits, ftie took gn opportunity with her riaiJ Lvicy to vrritjhim at his iftadet s. pre*Sndir.g a meffage from his uncie- She f joa. arevailed on him to promif another vtft,hich heperfoimed. and another till he hadc> power to keep from her Her whole de-are was money, and his paflion for her gotaae better ot his principles for fam aftertm he brought her. His infatuatinn was tooeeply rooted, reafon had no place in hisilind; hi< peace was gone and her’s onlyipiployed his thoughts. At length the fata![Ipy arrived ! '’horoughgood punftualy him*)mf, expe&ed equ l juffice irom all aboutim: nor had his hontft heart the lead fuf-licion of and unfair dealings, when he or-i;ered his b; oks to be fettled, and each ofis fervants to deliver up an account of what;ad been entrufled in his hands—GeorgeVas thunder-Hruck- to make up his accountsfas impo-flible, to fee his mailer und6f fuch {rljrcumftances was worfe than death.—He■ew to his ruin for fuccour, but left a let-71 for Trueman, informing him of the caufef his abfence, and the fum deficient*Trueman, aftoniihed at the letter, revol¬ted in his mind wh^t could be done in fairitical a point: to preferve the chara&er of1 is friend was the firft wifh; to endeavour0 fecret from his mafter the knowledge offine who had fo much injured him Clocked5ilm; as he thought one who concealed a iguilt in another, took part of the crime toIrimfelf.—In this dilema he (hewed the !letter to Maria, lamenting the fall of his <unhappy friend- Doubly unhappy ! as his iJalfe (tep now imbittered the fweats of the ihappieft family in the world ; for all was ipeace and confidence ! thofe who poflefs no iguilt fufpeft none, Maria enquired the fum ideficient, and if there wae any means of jlreplacing it, that Barnwell’s fault might Iefcape her father’s know.-edge. Trueman j)undertook to fet the account right, and Ma- «ria furnilhed the money. But alas) Barn- liwell was not to be found, fo that all theirendeavours to fave him from ruin failed. |Barnwell having now no longer an op. ■portunity to fuppiy Millwood with xTho- Itroughgood’s calh. (he rtfolving to makehim ftill fubfervient fo her avarice : which awas her ruling paflion) by degrees made him tconfent to rob and at length to murder his puucle. Miferable wretch ! the bounds of vir- litue once overleaped, no puide remains : andone vice crowes on the back of another, till pthe ruin is complete, and death alone can jhide from himfeif the wretch whofe actions hnannot bear his own infpefticn.At the naming of the murder of his un-cle he flew into 3 r?ge, and called her monf-. |iter devil, and faid ih was born for hisdeftruction She thought it would not an¬swer her end to meet h;^ rage with her*s#but aire&ed a molt paffi >nate fit of grief.She told him necefiity had no law, nor truelove no jbcuiid : that therefore he never true-ly loved, but meant in her necefiky to for-fake her She kneeled down and fwore that, ^ince by his Tefufal he had given her caufe|to doubt his love, {he never would fee him; nore. unlefs to prove true he would rob his, rncle to fupply her wants, and murder him:o kctep it from difcovery. tie flood fpeech-. (efs but in his face might be read the va¬rious paffions that tore his foul. At lengthfie cried out, Thou cuned woman! havef not already given dreadful proofs of my:ove : what drew me from my youthful in-iocence, and (tained my then unfpottedoul, but love of you ? what caufed me to■ob my worthy ad gentle mailer, but love ?lybat makes me now a fugitive from his fer-.. fice, but love of you ? and what love makes! ne refolve ^continued he, tearing his hair/io kill my uncle.Having thus brought him to coafenr, /henade him fet out immediatly, for fear the£W fparks of grace which yet remained inim, ftould make him abondon his defign.Sarnnrll fit out with all the relu&anceI lo >Imaginable ? and though he was fenfible tothe minuttft degree of the. horrknels of thefaCb'he was going to petpetrate, and madefeveral effens to return^ yet his infatuationfpr her who fought only the deflrudtion ofevery man in her power, in revenge for thelofs of her own rtputation and peace ofmind, hurried him on to his own ruin, in|the murder cf his dearly loving and be-jloved uncle.Being at length arrived at the vulagefwhere hisjande lived, he waited in a fecretiplace till the he time knew he wopld be byihimfelf at his meditations in the garden, asjhis daily cuflom to ballance accountsjiwith heaven, that he might always be pre-ppared fer that moment in which he might1be called’ and then m2 iking himfelf, wenjito meet him peorge preiented a piftol, amwas going to ihoot him, but his concienct?gave him. fuch a ch.ck he copld not do irbut threw away the piftol: the uncle hear!(irg' jt fall, and feeing a man fo near hir#mafked, was going to draw his fwerd, whief2:George perceiying'immediatly dabbed him1Tfie old man prayed heaven with his laipbreath tp blefs and prpfper his nephew, an;to fprgiye his murderer. George, cyercomi'* yrith his goodneies, dilpovered himfelf. Thleader may imagine ^hd aftc-nifhment thdj! uncle was in, at feeing his nephew was the. perfon who had murdered him He could. not fpeak, but killing him yielded up his5 breath Barnwell's agonies were prodigious}| he fainted away on the body, and when he; recovered was going to kill himfelf only heremembered the laas of chriflianity forbid« fell murder*Lucy, who was Millwood's fervant, andiwell trained in the paths of vice, had yet,j fo much tendcrnefs kit, fhe could not bear;the thoughts pf her miftrefs’s barbarity, and.. fending Geoge to deftroy his bell friend, in, whofe fall, himfelf mull be involved. Sherefolved if poffiibie to prevent the mifchief.■from being carried into execution, and toi tha? end waited on Thoroughgood, telling. himthe errand that George was goneabout,andamong other things informed him of his owni lofs. Thoroughgool was unwilling to be-1 lieve her, as he found no deficiency in his. calh, and therefore was in hopes that the. other part was as falfe as his having embez-zled the money ; but (he affurirsg him it wastrue, he fent one of his fervants to the ua-, die’s houfe But alas ! it was too late.George, as £0021 as the murder was over,retired to Millwood's, his fear being lo great; that he could not ftay to take any moneyfrom him , and Millwood finding he had not rm hronp,ht ber any, fent for an officer, and de¬livered him up, accufing him of murder.Soon .liter Fhorcughgood coming t;o feeher ihe wuh a muft coniummate impudencederie it and faid, ‘ I have feen him withmy maid lervant feveral times and havebeen informed that he had a violent paflionfor her, and Ihe for him but until then 11thought it innocent. I know mv maid to be ;ver- poor and given to exc^flive pleafures 8and therefore I imagine that fhe influenced thim to commit. the murder to fupply her »extravagancies.”This and more arts (he ufeo to perfuadehim of her innocence, and with all urgeo her iibetraying him, but Lucy had too well in-kformed him of her arts for him to be de- ?ceived by her. at length Ihe faid, ' 1 have tan evidence within my houfe that will flienceall obje&ions againft my oonduft ** While sfhe was gone in, Lucy and Trueman arrived jbringing with them fome officers to fecure nher which they did as ffie was returning to roThorcughgood tyith a piftol in her hand.She was Immediatly fent to Nawgate, and .lay till the enfuing feffions.The trial was mournful: Barnwell's youth ;and modeft deportment drewf tears from •every eye. When placed at the bar, with i‘many tears and interupting fobs he ccnl'ef- ij ed and aggravated his offences, without ini:he leaft accufmg Millwood, the infamousi author of his ruin. She (food fhamlefs andutnconcerned by his fide, viewing with pride:md contempt the numerous affembly. whoi ill with fympathizing forrow wept for theunfortunate youth. She, when called uponI o anfwer, loudly infilled upon her inno-:! :ence. and made an artful and bold defence.Sut finding all in vain, hirv did fhe curfei^erfdf her judges, and all mankind! Buti what could that avail, Ihe was condemnd,nd mull fuffer,After the trial Thorcughgood fent a Di-uine whofe abilitys he well knew, to J3arn-. well; nor was Millwood forgotten but file,. mhappy woman, continued obftinate, and■ iefufed all aflifiance-;» While he was in prifon his mafier vifitedi urn, and found him preparing for his long: ,nd laft journey 5 but the good old man waso affe&ed with his misfortunes, that he;j',culd not flay long with him.Trueman then came whom hewilhed much: p fee but George’s grief was fo great thatlie could not fpeak to him for fome time,liowever at length hs did, and then fell toi jggravathg his crimes, which Iruemm de-red him not to do: but to make himfelf8 eaiy as his circumftances would permit;IsymgT^My dear friend, had you trafte4(ine when firft the fair feducer tempted yotial! had been well.' Then anfwered George,??‘O talk rot of what might have been- lor :I have not t:ken one ftep fmce firft l faw.that falfe fair one, but what has tended tanmy ruin.*Vhile they were difcourfing Maria came/who among other#‘"ffbrts to reftore him a|little to hi? peace of mind, for the foort timejshe nad to live told him that Ihe muft andirwould! partake of his gr'ef He begged her tojmake herff if happy and added When hejiWas dead he fhould quickly be forgo tenShe anfwered. V’ou wiii never be out of my:menfory vvhiWt life lafteth, tor my love isfincete as difmterefted. They were inter ,rupted by the fHcers fummoning Barnwel tto his death j which fo afftfted Maria tha .(he faimed away. George begged them to.pray for him, and faid Early my race 64wickednefs began, and foon has reached th*j.fummit, ere Nator • hnilhed her work ami(lamped me n an- juft when others begastto ftpy, t»y courfe is r r.ifhed. And jufticdin compaffion to mankind, cuts oft a wretctlike me j by one example to lecure thoufinds from' future ruin/ Thus he parte*!from liucman and Maria.Never were greater laftarjcesoHnnocenceJknd wickednefs than in Barnwell and Mill-wood, when going to die. Barnwell pray¬ing all the way he went, and MillwoodJolafphfcming Barnwell tried all poffiblettneaas to make her fenfxble of the mercy of[he Omnipotent Power ; but Ihe told him,Mercy is above my hope, and almoft abover ritny wilh ; for I have finned above the reachi >f mercy/ And hearing him pray to hea-iven to grant her his grace before fhe died,'(hefaid, ,lf thou wilt pray, pray for thy-J ielf, and not for me.*In this manner they arriveH at the placewhere a period w,. to he put to all theiriiinifeiies in ihe world. George there madeja very pathetic fpeech, exhorting »:11 young(men to have a care of the wiles of levd wo-wnen ; but in a more particular manner hefldtfned them to leave off all deceits for the■iltime to come, in relation to women ; far itfwas their own falfehood in debauching themJon a piomife of marriage and fo deferungIt hem that made them give themfelves up)j-to all manner of wickedntfs. and do their:iutmofl to ruin every man in their power.lieorge Barnwell,AN EXCELLENTOLD BALLAD,SETTING FORTH THEtWeaknefs and FollyO FYOUTH,In following the Step ofLewd Women,Which always lead toDESTRUCTION.STIRLING:Printed and Soi d by C. Randall.1803.The London Prentice.A London lad I was,a merchant’s prentice bound,My name’s George Barnwell that did fpendmy mafter manv a pjund.As I upon a certain d y,was wa’king through the ftreet.About my m Tier’s Dufir:efsa wanton I did meet jA gallant diinty dameand fumptuous in attire,With fmiiing look we greeted meand did my name require.In faith my boy, laid Hie.fuch news I can thee tell,As fhall rejoice the very Ivart,fo come where l do dwellGood Barnwell, then quoth Ihe,do thou to Shoreditch come,And alk for Mrs MTllwood’s houfe , 'next door unto the gun.At night I knocked at the door,and flie berlelf came down,Rolling in moft rich attire,her hood and filken gown.She took me by the handand with a modefl grace,Welcome fweet Barnwell, then faid fhe,unto this homely place.( *8 )T3ii*ce I ffrefi b^e thrt fo^nias good «s my word to be,A homely lupper ere we partthou (halt here take wirh me,0 pardon me, qnoth I^e,fweet miflrefs now I pray;For out of my matter's houfe#ft) long t dare not ffoy.Alas! good Sir, faid (he,are you ft) ftri^lly ty’d,You may not with a dearcft frieftd,one hour or two abide ?1 flipped with her that ni^ht,with joys that did abound,And for the fame paid prcfently,in money twice three pounds.An hundred kifles thenfor my farewell (he gave,Crying, fweet Barnwell, when (hall F;thy company again have i0 ftay not too long my love,fweet George have me in mind,Her words bewitched my childilbnefsflie utter’d them fo kind. '1 eft to her did goand got her ftore of coin.Yea, lometimes fifty pounds,all which he did purloin.And thus he did pafs on,until his matter th.n,Did call to have his reckoningcaii up among his men.Then from his matter ftraight,he tan Le fecret lort.<?i<rrAnd unto Sarah Millwood th&this cafe he did report.Bu- how flie us’d this youth,in this his extreme need,The which did her necefljtyfo oft with money feed.The fecond part behold,thall tell v forth at large,: And thall a ft!ampe,,s wiley ways,I with all her arts difcharge.PART IF.TrTERE comes Barnwell unto thee,fweet Sarah mv heart’s delight,1 am undone nnlets thou (landmy faithful friend <-his night.Our rr after to command accompts,has juft occalion found,And I am now behind handabove two hundred pounds.And knowing not at all,what anfwer him to make,i Nor hi* difpleafure to efcape,i my way to thee ? take'1 With that .fhe knit her brows,and looking all awry,» Quoth the, what can I have to do,with any prentice boy ?I', And fioce you’ve ftoien and gaveyour mafter’s goods aWat,Your cafe s bad, and therefore here*you fhail no longer ftay.( '20 )fs this the great affV&ion whichyou feemei to exprefs iFalfe woman then farewell,whilft twenty pounds do laft.My anchor in forne other portwi:h freedom i will calt.when 'he perceived by his wordsthat he had money ftore,That fhe had gall’d him in fuch a fortdid grieve her heart full fore.Wherefore to call him back again,Ihe did fuppofe it beft.Stay George, faid flie thou art too quick^for man I did but jeftDoft thou think for all my fpeechhow I would let the go iFaith to, faid fhe my love to theeI wiO is more than foYou wont dead with prentice boysI heard you juft no -r fwestr.Wherefore they fliall not trouble ycu;my George hearken thine ear.You’ll not go tonight (aH fhe,let what chance will befa!;But man we’d haj=e money for thee,or elfe the devil take all.So I was by ftrong frauds deceiv’d,and fnared with fancy ftill,Bnt had no power to put away,or to withftand her will.My father’s rich and then faid I,(hall I want ftore of gold iFor with a father, a fon, faid he*may very well maiJS bold.( 2* )Likewlfe an uncle old I have,at Ludlow he doth dwell;He is a grazier, and in wealth.doth all the reft excel.Ere I will live in lack, quoth he,and have no coin for thee:I’ll rob his houfe and, murder him,why Oiould you not faid {he ?Was l a man. ere I would want,or live in poor eftate,On father, friends, and all fny kin,nv. talent I would grate.For witheut money, George, faid {he,a man is but a beaft;But bringing money, thou {halt bemy ever welcome gueft.For fry fhould you purfued bewith twenty hues and Cries,And with a warrant fearched forwith Argns’ hundred eyes:Yet in my houfe you fafe fhouid be,fuch privy ways there be.That if they fought a thoufand hoursthey never could find thee.And fo caroufing in their'cups,their pleafure to content;George Barnwell had in a little timehis money wholly {pent.It being gone, to Ludlow thenhe did provide to go.To rob his rich old uncle,his minion would have it fo.pireftly for his uncle’s thenhe rode with might and main.( 22 )And with a welcome aad good cl*:ershe did him entertain.One fortnight’s fpace he flayed there,until it chanced fo,His uncle with his cattle diUunto the market go.His kinfman needs muft ride with him,where he did fee right plain,Great ftore of money he had took, 'when coming home again jMoft fuddehly within a woodbe knock’d his uncle down,Then beat his brains out of his head,fo fore he crack’d his crown.Then eighty pounds of ready cafl*out of his purfe he took,41And coming up to London town,the country quite forfobk.Unto Millwood then he came,(hewing this ftore of gold ;And how he had his uncle (lainto her he plainly told.Pifh, ’tis no matter, George, faid (he,firce we the money have.For to have good cheer in gallant fort,and deck us fine and brave.New this they liv’d in filthy fort,till all his ftore was gone.What means to get him any morewe wift poor George had none. vNow therefor thus in wailing fort,,(he thru ft him out of door ;*Which is the juft reward of thofjSjhat fpend upon a whore( 23 )O! do me not this foul difgrace,in this my need, quoth be,She cad’d him thief and murderer, .with all the dilpight thvt might be.And to the conftable fhe fent;for to have him apprehended ;And fivewed bow fat' in- each degreq?he had the laws offended.'When Barnwell faw the drift,to fea he got ftraightway ;Here fear and dread of confci®«cecontinually on him lay.Unto the mayor of London thenhe did a letter write.In which his own and Sarah’s faulthe did at large recite.By which (he apprehended was,and then to Ludlow fent,And there was fhe condemn’d and hang’1!for murder incontinent.And there this gallant queep dy’dwhich was her greatelt gains,For murdering his undewas Barnwell hung in chains.Lo ! here’s the end of wilful youththat after harlots haunt ;And in the fpoil of other menjtbout the ftreets do fi-aunt.FINIS.