SOMEejaculationsANDDying WordjOf the Late REVERENDMr. JOHN WILLISON,. MINISTER of the GOSpEL at DUNDEE,Printed in the Tear, 1790 ;-Bying Words to his Wife and Children.Tp his Wife. " ’•Mt t»F. 4R,A 4 Y diftrefs calls metc.think of parting with yoq,^ the will of the fjUor(/be done* f thank you forvour tender care of me ; may the Lord blefs and re¬ward you for it, and fan&ify your o n tendernefo,and (upporl you under it. ' As you pave studied toIhe a life of faith and prayerall your days, Co I hopeand believe you will continue to the end. In all your(diffictdties'and‘fears encourage yourfelf in the Lord■your God. Commit your wav ro him ; truft himthat is faithful and" true. I refign you, my dear, tothe h u s b a n ip of Hufbands, our dearit LordJefus Chriit:To his Children.T^E AR Children, your earthly father muft leaveyou, your heavenly father is immortal. OclcavctaH to him Trifle not about your foul’s concernsin the time'of health ; mind thefe things as the onething neadful; this you tvill not repant of when you icome W ithin a near view of death and endlefs eter-uitv. O Sirs ! prefs for clear views of your intreft bin Chrift, the only fufety and' faviour of Cnners. tAmong the evidences of it, live by faith on him, nand ftudy holinefs hy heart and life. Dear Sirs, »;think haw you will be able to ftand before Chriftvour judge at the laft day, unlefs you have Chrift’s iimage on you, and, be made new creatures. Lord, imake you all fucb, and bleft you with his blflingMy Mefling be upon you ali. What means God igav,' me I have beftowed them on you, be kind and.careful of your mother fo long as you hayt iAnd let none of you forger, that although I go be- Stfore you fo theduft you mull all quickly fpllow me. iO ! that we may all meet tggethef >.t the right hand «of our Mefled Redeemer, to fee his face,’ and finjl fhis praih?. The time is near be ye therefor alfo readyi 1-Now. my dear wife and children, r^fnember whal^ *SSd£i of vnnr .ffe^^nate hulhand( 3 )feth to you for your eternal good and happinefcjtna^they fink into your heart: io prayeth,John WillisO'J*Some of Plis Dying Ejaculations.„ et me llcep in Jeius ! I would not live alway*this evil world, that has little in it .temptingJa&l to'grow worfe, and where the torrentv.u and ckf ding feena$ to grow ftronger. .1 would ae ire ro depart and he with Chrift whichis far fe>tter than to be here. I am willing rather tobe ableht from the body, and prefent with the JL,ord.■y^hom have 1 in heaven but thee, and there is noneupon earth! defire befides thee $ lor tho’ rhy heart,ilength and fleiii fail, yet the Lord will be thei ltrengrh of my heart, and my portion for ever., Now, Lord, what wait 1 for, my hope rsrnthee^I jl have waited for my falvation, O Lord.0 fdr Simeon’s frame, to be faying, ‘ Lord, let^(t thou thy lervant depart in peace, for mine eyes .iave teen thy falvation/   W hen Chrift fays, fitrely 1 come quickly j mzfy foul ahfwer, Even fo, come Lord Jefus.I am living on the rigbteoufnefs of Chritt, yea, dy«ng in the Lord. Even lb come. lam detained hereupon the flrorei waiting for a fair wind to carry me. over this Jordan, i have waited, and will wait foriihy falvauon, O Lord. The Lord is a rock, and his.{pork is perfect : Lord perfeft what cabcernetb me,1 O that I could lay with Paul, the time bf myMeparture is at hand. I have kept the faith, 1 Havelun my race, I have fmifhed mycourfe*, henceforthlaid op for me a crown of righteoufnefs, whichic righteous Lord will giife me at his coming-1 am vile and poluted, O how fhall 1 be cleanfed {lutthat is a comfortable promife, ‘The blood of:l'us Chrift his Son,.cieanfeth rs from ail fin.‘ AndIJH' iS that, * Though ye have lain among the pots, jefrail be as doves, whofe wings are covered with fil¬er, and her feathers with yelldw gold,i refoive to obey, te fubinit to the Lord’s wiff, tbki ke Koki and Aaron, theonj at mount Hor.and1the othetf at mount Abarim. They went up and diedthere at the command of the LordO that when my ftrength and flefh fail, God maybe the ftrength of my heart, and my portion forever."When now the keeper of the houfe do tremble, ©that God may be the keeper; when the grinder ceafcbecaufe they are few, O that God would feed myfoul with manna that will need none of thefe em¬ployments when the daughters ofmufie are broughtlow, Oto be fitted for the heavenly mufic above:■when the lookers out at the windows are darkned, ©that my foul may be enlightned to fee Jefus myRedeemerLord help unbelief and infidelity of of my heart, and fhelp me to more of the faith of*a rifen Jefus, an iafcenoed Redeemer. O let me believe and feel the :fweetnefs of that word of Chrift/ I afcend to my fa- ifher and your father, and to your God and my God ,O how fhall fuch an unholy creature as I prefume :to enter into fuch a pure and holy place! But the a- | <poftle has taught us, we may have boldnefs to enter tInto the holieft of all by the Wood of Jefus.O that when the time of my laft combat comes, twith my laft enemy Death, 1 may be helped aboveall to take the fttield of faith, whereby I may be re- ; tlieved from the fting of death, and may quench thefiery darts of the wicked one.O that I may be helped to adore the fovereignty ■of God, kifs his rod, and humbly fubmit to it. Save f Lme from both extremities ; let me never defpife t;.chaftening oftheLord/norfaintwhenlam rebuked tofhim.Now the prince of darknels will ftudy to raife . ftempefls of temptation to fhipwreck the poor wea- i' thetbeaten veftel of nly fonl, when it would enter It .into the harbour of reft a hove ; may Chrift come ::to be pilot, fteer the helm, and it fhall be fafe. iO for more faith ! may my faith ripen to a full taflurance, that I may go off the ftage rejoicing, and itthat ahuadjUitctarancc may be to raeinurf iAc kingdom of our L6rd and Saviour Jefus Chrift.1 O for more faith, that I may die like Simeonwhen he had Chrift. in his arms laying, ‘Now letthy fervant depart in peace, mine eyes have feenI thy falvation.Lord, one fmile of thy countenance would baniflii away all my doubts and fears, and make me hng ini pain.Is my Redeemer gone to prepare a place for me ?why (hould I be flothful to follow his Lmifteps,when be is faying, Come up hither ; com up dwellhere; eome up reign here * come »p ling here.O Lord, deliever my foul from death, mine eyesfrom tears, and my feet from falling O fave me. from the horrible pit, draw me out of the miery. clay, fet my feet upon a rock, and eitabhlh my go-•j ings, and put a new fong in my mouth.O give n.e grace to (Live by fruth and prayer to!j enter in at the ftrait gate. Lord thou halt bid mekncck, and it fhall be opned, alk aim! ye (hall find,jl Lord, l knock, open unto me ; i {hould be in, l:n muft be in, let me but over the thi efhold : let mekj within fight of my Redeemer's face, within hearing of the fongs erf the redeemd, let me get to the"3 out fide of that piifing company i’ll be welllenough if i get in.Lord in l mud be, 6ut I cannot (lay: O (hut menot out with fwearers, fabbath-breakers and pro-1 fane perfons; Lord I never choifed their companyI while in this world. Lord, do not ga ther aiy foulwith finners hereafter.The redeemed are gathering, and the wicked aregathering; Lord gather me with thy flock; they arefall a gathering ; the church’s head is gone rhe hasleft the earth and entered into his glory ; my bre¬thren and fniends many of tfum havearived wherehe is i I am yet' behind. O how great is the differ¬ence betwixt my date and theirs. 1 am groaningtout my complainij they are finging God’s praifie jl ana in daikacfs, ami cannot fee thy dice, but theytv-tiold thee face to fact O fiiouid I be fatlsfieci toftjy behind when my friend are gone ! Shall I wan-dbr here in a hangery defart, whssn they are trump-hing above, and dividing the fpoil ? O Help me tolook after them with a ftedfaft eye, and cry, OLord how long;O htaverily father draw me after jefus, for nonecan come to him without tky aid, O father drawme up there where he is, an«» l will mount up as oneagle’s wings O draw me, and when thou leemeftto tty froin me, Lord ettabie me to follow hardafter thee. _ 'Lord give me the'ftaffof promife in my hand, that »I may go over Jordan with it. O give me fuch a 1promile as that, ‘When thou paffeft through thewacfS I will be with thee, and through the riversthey ihall not overflow thee : When thou walkeft t,through the fire thou {halt not be bnrnc neither Itfliall the flame kindle upon thee.‘Lord my experiences are fmall, my manifeftationsfew ; thefe I will not lean to; yet 1 will remem- ibir thee from the land of Jordan, from the Hermon- »ites, and from the hill of Mizar. Why art thou callclown O my foul, and why difquited within me!hope thou in God, for I fhail yet praife him, whois the health of my countenance* and my God-O thou who remembredft the dying thief, whenbn the way to thy kingdom, O remember me when fnow feated in thy kingdome, and fay to my foul when |:I am dying, ‘ I his day fhalt thou be with me in } i* Paiadiie. *Lord, I am called to the v^ork I never did, O give ;me the ftrength I never had. O ftrengthen me like 1 iSamfcn for ohee, when at death, to pul down the | ,ftrong holds of fin in me. Lord walh away my Ohs ; i,in the blood of Chritt, and then my il lhall not jfink in the occean of thy wrath., j n,O what is life but a vapour ! a fand glafs of 6o ; tttr 70 years 1 O how fall does it run down ! howfooa runs it out! Vain, vain is the Icvc of life, atjU-; c:(car of death. 0 for more patience anci lefs fret¬ting If the damned had hope of beint; faved fronaihell after a 1000 years of my pain how wil|inglyIwould they endure it. BSefTed be God, my pain%are not hell, there ftate is not mine,j Lord, dray/ near Co me and fays me ; my body itjfuU of troube, and my life draws near to the grave..But, Lord thy loving-kindnefs is better than life,0 make thy lovir <-kindnefs fure to me, and I wiUirwillin^/v part with this dying life.1 Oh, that 1 could m rke all the world fee beau¬ty of my precious and adorable Saviour.r Nothing but ai\ imreft in Chrift can give peaceijin life, or comfort in death. He is the chief among,: ten thoufand, and altogether lovely. My body is iuipart dead, but I know l cannot die eternally whileJefus lives. I muft go down to the grave ; but whatis the grave ? It is but a refiaing pote fines my Sa-riour lay in it, it is but a bed of rofes. ‘ He is therofe of Sharon, and the lily of the valley.”j It was his free grace that drew me, and made mewilling in the day of his power ; no defire, no merit(in me, it was all free and undeferved.-j I O let the chaftifement of my body be the medicine>f my foul, to cure me of fin, and bring me to fin-Cere repthtance for it: for Chrift; was wounded for>ur tranfgrelTions,be was bruifed for bur iniquities jhe chaftifement of our peace was laid upon him.! Lord, remember the chgOif^ment of Chrift forin and te; my pains bethe chaftifement of a father,.find not the wounds of an enemy. Let Chrift’s fuf-. brings mitigate mine-j I rejoice in the profpeft of that glorious inheri-aiice referved lafe. I could not comfortably enter. :ternity any other way but in and through this God-- nan medi-ioi ; if he was riot God as well as man,J could not be fupported, but he is Qod.1 Oh, this precious Saviour, he is my all in all. hei a my all fufficient good, my portion and my cfipice.( * )rejoice, I am travelling through a wilderneft to a eitjof habitation, whofe builder and maker is God.Oh delightful thougnt ! thj£. I who was goin]on in ^in, (hould be plucked as a brand out of th<burning Oh, haw will they ly on a death-bed tha^j,have nothing but their own works to fly to, wirh||cniy this to depend on, I {hould be the mod mifer4|abb of a 1 creatures but the long white robe of mj^jRedeemer’s righteoufnefs is all my defire Theyare rruly bliflid, they alone are happy, who are c-jjnabled to exalt in the garments of celdlial glory IIIwhich never waxeth old, in the illuftrious robes o^a Saviour’s codfumate righteoufnefs, which are in-corruptable and immortal. This is a robe whicfhides every fin of thought, word or deed, that l havicommited. O how unfpeakably happy are they whcare j uHified by this all perfect righteoufnefs of th«Lord Jefus Chrift, and who therein can coudamlltriumph and glory.Lord, I live upon Chrifl, I live upon his righ-teuol left, I live upon his blood and merits; yea tdie alfo leaning wholly upon rhis botton. It is noli:pad experiences or manifedations I depend upon ijt is Chrid, a prefent allfufficent Saviour and perfe£!righ'eoufnefs in him I look to. All my attainment!are but droft and dung befide?. When I find my-felf polluted, 1 go to this fountain for cleanfingLord, give me delight in approaching to thee; :delight to be at a throne of grace. O that I couhm -ke my bed there, lay and die there. 1Ihe kingdoms of heaven fijfftrs violence^ and theviolence take it by for,ce. O for ftrength to offer<J iholy violence by faith and prayer.Thus the author died as he lived tedifyingthfpower'of religion upon himfelt; and that at a tim(Sn hen men have mod need of their comforts. Thjfo e/oiug words are tranfc ibed fro i his o-vn mantu|cr pr, now lying in the hands of My BELL, m|LiiUr at Ababrorhick’FINIS.