AN ACCOUNTOP THEDISPUTEBETWEENRUSSIA, SWEDEN fc’ DENMARK,ANDGREAT-BRITAIN.TO WHICH IS PREFIXED,The Outlines of the Treaty of PeaceBETWEENGREAT BRITAIN AND RUSSIA,concluded the 17th June, t8oi.Character and Anecdotes of PAUL, the lateEmperor of RufiiaA DETAIL OF THEBATTLE OFF COPENHAGEN;ALSO, THEOrigin of the Quarrel, Nature of the Right ofSearch, Trade carried on with tbefe Powers,and exifting Treaties*GENEROSITY OELORD VISCOUNT NELSON,After the Vittory, and confequences of it.bhara&er of ALEXANDER, the prefetit Emperorof Ruffia.*Air, Printed by J. & P Wilfon, l8or«Price Two-pence.Although the convention figned at Pctet (burgh, orthe 17th June, iSci, betVveen Lord St Helen’s ancCount Panin will not be made public till after it has beerratified by our King and the Emperor of Ruflia, the following ftatement proves it to be as favourable to thinterells of this country as could be defired.It is not confined to an adjuftment of the immediatdifpute between Britain and Ruflia, and to a ccmpenfation for the lolfts fullained by Britiih fubjedls, in cor.fe<|Uence of the embargo impofed in Rufik on Britifii (hipping (although both thefe objefls are effetOnally fecureiby the Convention,) but it alto contains a precife ftat<ment of thefyfiem to be permanently eftablilhed betweeBritain and Ruffia, with refpeft to the rights and dutieof Neutral and Belligeiem Powers. Phis i'yllem is fcuncd on thofe principles of Maritime Law which have beeuniformly alferted by Great Britain, and which are folemnly recognized in this convention, and declared to bthe rule of conduct to be invariably obferved between thtwo nations when One may be in a neutral, and the othein a belligerent date.Mod important Regulations are eftabliflied for the prejlventing of enemies (hips failing under neutral cokmrsljand for providing as effectually as the nature of the callwill admit, againft thofe absfes of the Neutral flags, whic|have been fo judly a fubjeCl of complaint on the par&. clour country.This Convention includes alfo a treaty of alliancjjeffenfive and defenfive.The Danifti and Swedifli monarchs ate invited to acitcede to this Convention, as the terms on which they (ha Ireceive back their conquered Colonies.AN ACCOUNTOF THEDISPUTEBETWEENRUSSIA, SWEDEN & DENMARK,(ANDGREAT BRIT A IN.i ———-Charader and anecdotes of the E,np;ror Patti I. of Rttffta.f N order to explain the reafons that coulda£!uate the Northern Powers to leaguehemfelves at this jun£ture againft Great Britain, andlet afide and violate Treaties folemnly ratified ; ocefore we ftate what the right of fearching Neutrali/effels is grounded on ; how necefiary it is for everyliatioo, but particularly Britain <o adhere to it, andIvhat engagements really were broken by thefe powers,t will he neceflary to give a fketch of the hiftory o£Ae Emperor Paul I. of Ruffia.One of the greateft crimes charged againfi; Catha-line was her condu£l to Paul, in whofe right (he go-icrned Rufiia thirty-five years In his infancy, hefiemed poflefled of fenfe, aflivjty, a difpofition for theciences, and fentime,nts of oid<sr and juftice; but allliefe perifhed for want of cultivation.—-She could nottear him, kept him at a didance, furrounded him with.aies, held him in reftraint, expofed him to every kindf humiliation ; and while her favourites, inferior torsr fon in years, governed Ruflia, and wallowed inrealth, he was living retired, infignificant, and inrant of nccefiaries Thus (he foured his temper, andicndered him capricious and miftruftful, favage addpiel. Not fatisfkd with depriving him of the affe£fci»'4<C>n and prerogatives he ought to have enjoyed as a fcli tIbe refolved to take from him lilcewife the rights a ;pleafures of a father. His' wife came almoit eve iryear to lie in at Tzarfko-fe'o, and left her childrilthere in the hands of ftrange.-* They were hrougji:up under Catherine ; neither father'nov mother hJ|ing the leaft concern in their education, or author|oover their conduct. Thus (he drove to wean tp.:hearts of thefe children from parents they fcarotuknew.It was generally fuppofed that Cathaiine intend|! tto proclaim Alexander, the prefent emperor, heir to ill.crown, but death took her by furprife, and a horpfhriek which fhe gave as {he expired, was the dread pfound to proclaim Paul emperor of all the Ruffias. j.Some favourable regulations made by Paul on intending the throne tended to raife a confidence in liltpublic, which was fcon done away by the child ill*whim Real, and impolitic conduft he purfued. T|jnumerous anecdotes which his condufl has given r||to, (hew him to have been impetuous and cowarcjiIt would be cruel now to enlarge on thefe, let the f|.lowing fufii :e as a fpecimen.Paul had taken a Angular avtrfion at round hr Iand iffued an order to take them away, or tear th |from the heads of thofe who wore them This ocMfioned feme fcandalruj feenes in the ftreets, and p||ticularly near the palace. The foldiers of the poljijlfan up to the paffengers fnatched off their liats, cilbeat thofe who not knowing the reafon attempted!||defend themfelves. An Englifti merchant got|through the ftteet in a fledge, was thus flopped, cijhis hat fnatched off; fuppoflng it a robbery, he leajHout of his fledge, knocked down the foldier and caljqlthe guard. Inflead of the guard, arrived an ofEcIwho overpowered-and bound him, but as they wjrproceeding to the police he was fortunate enoughjjmeet the-coach of the Englifh minifter, who was jiting to court, and claimed his protedlion.Charles Whitworth, made his complaint to the EO* 5penjr, who, conjecturing that a round hat might befthe nationai drefs of th.; Eng4ifii, fairl, that his orderhad been mifconceived, ar t next day it was publishedi in the (treets and lioufes, that ftrangers who were notin the emperot’s fervice, or naturalized, were notjcomprized in the prohibition.; Another regulation, requiring German harneffingto be ufed for hcrfes, oecahoned fuch difgufl that theSofficer? came to the parade ®n foot. One day an of-;flcer walking in the ilreets in a large peliiTe, gave hisfword to h’13 fervant, intending to put it on, and take:ofFhis pelifle when he came near the palace.—Unfor¬tunately before this took place, the emperor met him,aad in ccnfequence he was reduced to the ranks, andihis fervant made an officer in his place.One day as Paul was riding through the ftreets ofPeterfburgh, his horfe {tumbled with him ; he alight¬ed immediately, held a fort of council with his at¬tendants, and the horfe #as condemned to receive fif¬ty lathes with a whip.—'Paul caufed them to be givenion the fpot, before the populace, counting himfelf theilftrokes, faying, “ There, fir, that is for having {tum¬bled under the emperor.”One day travelling, he recollected fomething, andordered the coachman to return, Prefently, yourhighnefs,” faid the coachman, the road is here too nar-i'Tow.”—“How rafcai,” cried Paul, “turn immediate¬ly The coachman, inftead of anfwering battened to.a fpot where it was poffible fo comply : Paul how-r^ver, ordered his equerry to arreft and punsth the re¬bellious coachman —the equerry allured him he wouldworn in a moment; Paul dew into a paffion with theHeqacrry alfo: “ You are a pitiful fcounurel like him-felf,” faid he, “Let him overturn the carriage, let: him break my neck, but let him obey me.” During■the difpute the coachman fucceeded in turning, buti Paul had hirn'chaftifed on the fpot.| His cowardice was no !ers confpicuous. When theiSrltiffi Government fent admiral Dickfon to Copen-hagcn to demand an explanation, on the affair of th hFrcya frigate, the magnanimous Paul had a conftan slook out kept from the matt head of a war {hip aCronftadt, left our fleet fltould furprife him in Petera :tburgh, intending on tneir comirg in fight to retreaiiiinto the country.No wonder that the cunning Buonaparte (hcuk! aj.vail himfelf of the chance of fetting fo whimflcal ')manat variance with kis U; ft friends ; witli thof uwhofe commerce had been advantageous to RufSa illa very great degree *, and who, as we fhal! ftiew toeRuffian produce, which they might have had athome.—|No pains were fpared to cajole Paul and gain his favour. Couriers followed each ether in quick fucct:{ion from Paris to PeUrfburgh. Plans were formojto draw the whole North of Europe into a quarrel witljus j and as there is never a difficulty in finding a bonPi contention with thofe who are bent on differingthey Caflly found one ; and the incenfiftent Paul, th jfworn enemy of regicides and democracy, with owesJen ami Denmark in his train, caught by the deceit!ful luresof Buonaparte, foemed anxious to lend all theimight to work our ruin.CHAP. II.^Hedged claim of Paul upon the ifiand of Alalia. R‘ghof jearch ntcejjary for every nation at ivar. PcJitivXengagements of ail the Northern Powers to abide by if|PAUL, who had made hirnielf Grand Matter ofthe Maltefe order of St. John of Jerufalemwifhed to poffefs the ifland alio. And wiien ilurrendered to this country lie propofed a plarto the Britiflr court for to give it up, but before an an-fwer could reach him, Buonaparte had beeu before¬hand, and with the eflrontery of a Frenchman offereeto reconquer and give it to him. This offer, which achild might have feen the impoffibility of his fulfilling,was greedily accepted by Paul. Peacc,with the French)Republic was concluded by him, and notwithftand-sng of apofitive treaty eiiiting between the two natt-7ons, in which it was declared that fiiould Britain and! Ruffia go to war, the (hips and merchanciice of each! country fhouid be allowed to be withdrawn by theirj proper owners ; Paul made no icruple at detainingI the (hips and merehandife, and imprifoning the crews.While the/e things vrre going forward, Denmark; and Sweden w-ho had allowed a contraband trade to! he carried on under the fan&ion of their flags, wenti readily into th£ meafure of armed neutrality in order: to carry on openly'an aggreflion which they had hither¬to difguifed.Contraband Good': , in time of war, confift in every| article neceiTary in fitting out armaments, or equip¬ping (hips, and every implement of war,—That thefeare proper to be coniidered as contraband is evident,! becaufe if they are carried into the ports of one nati-)on, it materially injures its antagonirt, and tends tolengthen out a war. Alfo, when a ftate grants con¬voy, to vefTels that have no fear of being captured,1 the very appearance of a convoy is a. kitid of proofI that it is charged with illegal commerce, or there1 would be no occaflon for it.Sweden, though united with the armed neutrality! in 1780, did not fcruple afterwards, when engaged inwar with Rufliato enforce the contrary principle.Ruffia, Sweden and Denmark, readily agreed to the1 principle of Search in 1797, a id treaties with thefe'I powers were then ratified. Dcnmar-r, who firft openly■I broke that treaty, and on whom fell the juft vengeance5 of Britain, that deceitful power, after entering into 3j folemn engagement with Admiral Dickfon, not to^ grant convoys, nor protect: contraband goods, did not1 fcruple two months after, to avail itfelf of the op¬portunity of the expected co-operation of Ruffia andSweden, to overthrow the code of maritime lawsefta-bliflied for centuries among the commercial nations of1 Europe.Ihis armed neutrality, which was deemed by Bri¬tain as a declaration of was ratified in the monthj of December 180s.8RUSSIAN ARTICLES.TO thofe who fancied we could not do withouRuffian produce we beg the reader's atttntiorto the foilov/ing ftatement, vhich will fliew that v.are by no means cvithout jefources for obtaining athe articles fcr v/hich we trade with Ruffia. and if thtjnew channels into which the trade may be thus forced, (had be found advantageous, it will probably never be wholly recovered by that cr the other countriesOf Iron, we takefrom Rtrfliaand Sweden about 5o,eocjtons annually ; oncthird isfrs'tnthe lattercountry Outjiown forges produce about 50,000 tons mere ; a {lo]|lbeing put to the importation, will be an encouragement to our forges, or founderies, when it is knowthey only wanted fuch a circurrtftance to furnith double the quantity they now do • It is the cheapnefs o*Ruffian iron that caufed it to be imported i a fewiyears ago, when the late Emprefs prohibited a number of Engliffi articles, this government was ftrongly!folicited to lay duties on Ruffian iron, even by thelmerchants concerned in the trade ; it was alfo repre-fented, that we flood in no need of impertation fromRulfia. Swedifli iron, on account of its peculiar qua¬lity, is indeed very ufeful, but by no means indifpen-fible. With refpedl to Hemp, it is well known thatthe Italian hemp is the heft in Europe, though it doesnot taka tar fo readily. Egypt has always been famous for hemp and flax, and fuppiied till the French,got pofleffion cf it, Leghorn, Syria, Ana Minor, Con-ftantinople, Smyrna, &c. with large quantities 1 theEaft Indies can fupply us with any quantity, as wellas many other countries; nor is there any reafon whyit (hould not grow at home. It does not impovcrilh Iland, as fome have reprefented, more than wheat;perhaps »ot fo much. In Ruffia, the heft hemp’growsin the northern parts. There certainly exifls no rea-/"h whv we (hould import flax from Ruffia, at lead iting oi apolitive trea..9certain tint «'e can do without it. Egypt produce*ie fineft, but Ireland may grow much greater quali¬ties than at prefent^ and we may be fupplied with it•om many countries. Tallow- Formerly we tooklone from Rufiia, this is now become an article ofireat importance to that country ; in fome provincesney kii! oxen merely to boil their meat to get out allne tallow. The higher the Irith fell their tallow, theneaptr they can afford to fell their beef. Oil of ourIherics might, in many inftances, be fnbllitui-ed forpillow, and oil may be converted into a fubftance as|ard as tallow. We take J2 or ! 5,000 tons, and it isuty free. Other nations together take about onebird of this quantity. RavenduCls. We take 80,000ieces, worth about ioo.oool. Sterling (s.t prefentbore.) Drillings, thirteen thoufand pieces. Diaper,lor 5000I. fteiling. Broad and narrow linen, for a-•out 5500I. fterling. Fkms linen, 80,000 or oo,cool...erling, about-qojooo pieces. Foreign nations, aquantity much lefs confiJerable. The prohibition ofhefe articles would be very encouiaging to our ownnai.ufa&ures. Deals. We take for about zoo,oool.liough forty years ago we took none from Rufiia,Jthcr articles are of very little importance. The im¬portation into Rufiia of Brhifli manufaflures, whichtil pay enormous duties in their ports, are become, by1 he numerous prohioitions, very trifling, fo that thebalance in favour of Ruflia, and againll this country,s two millions Iterling.Account of the Battle off Copenhagen.rH E beginning of this year exhibited Britainfurrounded with enemies. With none ofc maritime kingdoms of Europe, but paflivc Portu-igal, could (he hold intercourfe.—France, Spain, Hol-Uand, Ruflia, Sweden and Denmark, prepared to affailher, and counted on her deftruffion. The approachCHAP. III.of fprifig was % paufe awfully foreboding.—HapplFfor us the genuine ftubborn Britifh fpirit diredled hMajefty’s Miniftcrs j they allowed no exaggerated reprefentations of our dangers to intimidate them, oincline them to crouch with bafe fubmiffion to perfidous enemies; but relying on the juftice of our cauftand the ftrength of our arms, on the flcill of our commanders, and the lion hearts of our feamen, they formed a plan, the execution of which fell to the lot othe renowned conqueror of Aboukir, that has dHhpated the ftorm, and eftablifhed our ftrength, jultice angenerofity on a more exalted level than it ever floodand has laid our enemies under the mod driking obligations of gratitude for the forbearance fhewn to thewhen entirely at our mercy.— A forbearance and ge«n^ofity unexampled before in the annals of wars.Follows Sir Hyde Pnrker’s difpatches,detailing thefe very important events.Admiralty 0ff.ee, April 15* 1801.Captain Otway, oj his Maje/ly’s Jh.p. the London, arri¬ved in town this morning with dispatches prom Ad¬miral Sir Hyde Parker, Commander in Chief of aSquadron of his Majejly’s fh'-ps, employed on a parti¬cular fervice, to Evan Nepean, Esq. dated on hoardthe London, in Copenhagen Roads, tlse 6th inji. 1/which the following are copies.Sir,YOU will be pleafed to acquaint the LordsCommifUoners of the Admiralty, that fincemy letter of the 23d ofMarch, no opportunity of windoffered for going up the Sound until the 25th, whenthe wind fhifted in a mod violent fquall from the8. VF to the N. W< and North, and blew with fuch'Violence, and with fo great a Tea, as to render it invpoflible forany (hip to have weighed her anchor. Thewind and fea were even fo violent as to oblige manyI (hips to let go a fecond anchor to prevent them from.I driving, notwithftanding they were riding two cablesi an end*, and, by the morning, the wind veered again.1 to the fouthward of the weft. On the 30th of iaft) month, the wind having come to the northward, we; pafled ipto the Sound with the fleet, but not before II had affined myfelf of the hoftile intentions of theI Danes to oppofe our paffage, as the papers markedJNo. 1, 2, 3, and 4, will prove ; after this intercourfe,there could be no doubt remaining of their determi-• nation to refill.Alter anchoring about five or fine miles from theIfland of Huin, l reconnoitred with Vice-AdmiralLord Nelfon, and Rear-Admiral Graves, the formida¬ble line of ffiips, radeaus, pontoons, galleys, fire {hips,and gun-boats, flanked and fupported by very exten-.| five batteries on the two iflands called the Crowns;the largeft; of which was rpounted with from fifty tofeventy pieces of cannon ; thefe were attain command¬ed by two (hips of feventy Guns, and a large frigatein the Inner Road of Copenhagen, and two 64 gunfhips, (without mails) were moored on the Flat, onthe flar-board fide of the entrance into the arfenal.—The day after, the wind being foutherfy, we again ex¬amined their pofition, and came to the refolution ofattacking them from the fouthward.—Vice Admiral*’Lord Nelfon having offered his fervices for conduct¬ing the attack, had, fome days before wo entered theSound, drifted his flag to the Elephant; and after hav¬ing examined and buoyed the outer channel of themiddle ground, his Lordthip.proceeded with the twelvedrips named in the margin, (Elephant, Defiance, Mo¬narch, Uellona, Edgar, Ruffell, Ganges, Glatton, Ifis,Agamemnon, Polyphemus, Arden;,) all the frigates,banrbs, fire-drips, and all the fmall veffelsp jnd thatitevening anchored off Draco Point, to make hie difpo*fition for the attack, and wait for the wind to the fouth*ward.-r-It was agreed between us, that the remainingfhips with me fhould weigh art the fame moment, his |Lordfiiip did, and menace the Crown batteries, and jthe fou^/hips of the Hire that lay at the entrance of the Iarfenal; as alfo to cover our difabled fhips as they !came out of a£ion.I have now the honour to inclofe a copy of Vice- |Admiral Lord Nelfon’s report to fne of the a£tion on |the 2d inft. His Lordfhip has dated fo fully the j|whole of his proceedings on that day, as only to leave Ime the opportunity to teftify my entire acquiefcenceand tedimony of the bravery and intrepidity with tiwhich the atdion was fupported throughout the line. • jjWas it poffible for me to add any thing to the well-earned renown of Lord Nelfon, it would be by aflert-ing, that his exertions, great as they have, heretoforebeen, never were caried to a higher pitch of zeal'forHis country's fervice. I have only to lament that thefort of attack, confined within an intricate and narrowpaffage, excluded the (hips particularly und^r my com¬mand from the opportunity of exhibiting their valour ;but I can with great tiuth affert, that the lame fpiritand zeal animated the whole of the fleet ; and I trudthat the conted in which wears engaged, will, on fame.'uiure day, afford them an cccafion of {hewing thatthe whole were infpired with the fame fpirit, had thefield been fufficiently extenfive to have brought it in¬to a£fion It is with the deeprd concern 1 mentio.ilthe lofs of Captains Mofs and R;ou, two very braveand gallant officers, and whofe iofs, as 1 am well in¬formed, will be fertfibly felt by the families they haveleft behind them ; the former a wife and children, thelatter, an aged mother. From the known gallantryof Sir Thomas Thomfon on former occafions, thenaval fervice will have to regret the lofs of the futureexertions of that brave officer, whofe kg was thot off.For atJ other particulars T beg leave to refer their Lari-,(hips to Captain Otway, who was with Lord Nelfonin the latter part of the action, and able to anfwer anyqueftions that may be thought neceffkry to put to him.A return of the killed and wounded you will receive. f have the honour to be, &c,H. Parker,,P. S. The promotions and appointments that have:aken place on this occafion will be fent by the nextppportunity that offers; but I cannot clofe this with¬out acquainting their Lordfliips, that Captain MofTejteing killed very early in fhe a£Uon, Lieutenant Johnfelland continued it with great fpirit and good con-:!u£t ; l muft, therefore, in juftice to his merit, begFrom ihehodile tranfa&ions of the Court of l) *n-ipark, fending away his Brkannic Majefly’s Ch_ gef Affaires, the Commander in Chief ofhisMaje fty’s;eet is anxious to know what the determination of theihnifh Court is, and whether the Commanding OiTi-:;r of Cronenberg Caftle has received orders to firenon the Britifh Fleet as they pafs into Jne Sound, asc rnuftdeem the. firing of the firft gun a declarationf war on the part of Denmark.(Signed) Hyde Parker.In anfwer to the Admiral’s honoured letter, I haveinform aim, that no orders are given to fire on thenglifii fleet; an exprefs is gone to Copenhagen, andoi any orders be fent, 1 {hall immediately fend anave to recommend him to their Lordthips favour.No. I.London in the Cattsgate.March ■z'jy r8oi.Tranflaticn, No. II.NSWER.Cronbergy March 28.liccr on board to inform the Admiral.(Signed)Stiuckeb., Governor.ITran/lation, Ns. III.Cronberg Cajllt, March 28, i8or.Tn anfiver to your Excellency's Letter, which I didnot receive till the following day at half pad eight, Ihave the honour to inform you, that his Majcfty the )iKing of Denmark did not fend away the Charge d’Af-;:lfaires, but that upon his own demand he obtained ai|paflport.As a foldier I cannot meddle with politics,but I am !not at liberty to fuffer a fleet, whofe intention is not ijyet known, to approach the guns of the Caftle which |1 have the honour to command.In cafe your Excellency fhould think proper to makeany propofals to his Majefty the King of Denmark,wifli to be informed thereof before the fleet approache;:nearer to the caftle. An explicit anfwer is defired.(Signed) Stricke.ANSWER.On board the London, March 29one A- M.' Sul—In aofvver to your Excellency’s note juft novreceived, the underfigned has only to reply, that, finding the intentions of the Court of Denmark to be hoitile againft his Britannic Majcily, he regards the arfwer as a deck ration of war, and theteforc, agreeabhto his inftruftions, can no longer refrain from hodilties, however re!u£!ant it may be to his feelings; biat the fam^time will be ready to atte+ul to any piopcfals of the Court of Denm: rk for reftoring pie formnnriity and iriendfhip which had for fo many years fulifted between the two Courts.(Signed) ^ H. Parke\Lord Nelson’s Lett<y:to Sir Hyde ParkeElephant, off CopenhagtApril 1, 180Sirin obedience to ycur direiSlions to report the pi*5ceedtngg of tlie fquadron named in the margin,* whichyou did me the honour to place under my command,I beg leave to inform you, that having, by the afiift-ance of that able officer, Capt. Rioti, and the unre¬mitting exertions of Capt Biifbane, and the Mailersof the Amazon and Cruizer in particular, buoyed thechannel of the outer deep, and the pofition of the mid-| die ground, the fquadron paffed in fafety, and anchor¬ed off Draco the evening of the ill; and that yelter-day morning I made the fignal for the fquadron toweigh, and to engage the Danilh line, confuting of fixfail of the line, eleven floating batteries, mountingJ from twenty-fix twenty four pounders, to eighteeneighteen-pounders, and one bomb (hip, befidesfchoon-i er gun-veflels. Thefe were fupported by the Crown-i Iflands, mounting eighty-eight cannon, and four faili of the line moored in th * harbour’s mouth, and fame1 batteries on the Iflind of Amak- The bomb-(hip andI fchooner gun veflels made their efcape, the otherfeventeen fail are funk, burnt, or taken, being thei wholeof the Danifh line to the fouthward of the CrownJUluids, after a battle of four hours,j From the very intricate navigation, the Bellona andIRufiel unfortunately grounded, but although notinthe fituation affigned them, yet fo placed as to be of;great fervice. The Agamemnon could not weatherithe Ihoal of the Middle, and was obliged to anchor :iBut not the fmalleft blame can be attached to Capt.jFancourt ; it was an event to which all the (hips wereh —"   * Elephant, Defiance, Monarch, Bellona,' Edgar,IRufiel, Ganges, Glatton, His, Agamemnon, Polyphe-(mus, Ardent, (hips of the line ; Amazon, Defiree,gilBlanche, Alcmene, Frigates ; Dirt, Arrow, Cruizer,ond Harpy, Hoops; Zephyr and Otter, fire-(hips;Difcovery, Sulphur, Hecla, Expiofion, Zebra, Terror,mid Voic-viOjBombs.i6 /liable. Thefe accidents prevented the extenfion ofcur line by the three (hipsheforerrentioned, wh* wouldI am confident, have filenced the Crown Iflands, thetwo outer (hips in the harbour’s mouth, and prevented Ithe heavy lofs in the Defiance and Monarch, and Iwhich unhappily threw the gallant and good Cant. ,F.iou (to whom I had given the command of the fri- |ijgates and (loops named in the marginf, to affift in the |:|attack of the (hips at the harbour’s month,) under a [ivery heavy fire ; the confequence has been the death |of Capt Riou, and many brave officers and men m the Ufrigates and (loops. The bombs were direct ’d and |took their fiations abreaft of the Eiephant, and threw <fome flielis into the arfenal. Captain Rofe, who vo¬lunteered his ferviccs to direct the gun-brigs, did ,every thing that was poffible to get them forward, but !the current v/as too (Irong for them to be of ferviceduring the a<S(ion ; but not the lefs merit is due to .Capt R.o(e, and I believe all the officers and crews of li!.the gun-brigs, for their exertions. The boats of thofe |:i(hips of the fleet, wlio were not ordered on the attack, ijafforded us every alfiftance ; and the officers and men Itwlio were in them merit my warmeft approbation— ■The Defiree took her ftation in raking the fouther-rr.cft Daniflt fnip of the line, and performed the great- tefi fervice.The a£lion began at five minutes pad: ten—Thevan, led by Capt. George Murray of the-Edgar, whofet a noble example of intrepidity, which was as wellfollowed up by every Captain, Officer, and man, in thefquadron. It is my duty to you to ftate the high amidillinguifhed merit and gallantly cf Rear AdmiralsGraves. To Capt. Foley, who permitted me the ho¬nour of hoifling my flag in the Elephant, I fed underthe greateft obligations : His advice was neceflary onf Blanche, Alcmene, Dart, Arrow, Zephyr, and OtterJmany and Important occafions during the battle.—I: beg leave to exprcfs how much I feel indebted to everyCaptain, Officer, and Man, for their zeal, and diftin-guifhed bravery on this occafion. The Hon. ColonelStewart did nv* the favour to be on board the Elephant,and himfelf, vehn every officer and foldier under hisorders, fhared with pleafure the toils and dangers orthe day. The lofs in ftu.Va battle has naturally been| very heavy :—Amongfl many other brave Officers and! Men who were killed, I have with forrow to place thename of Captain Mofs of the Monarch, who has lefti a v/ife and fix children to (ament his lofs •, and amongftthe wounded, that of Captain Sir Thomas B. Thom-fon, of the Beilona-I have the honour to be, See.Nel/on & Bronte.2023443573375|. From the London Gazette, April 21.Admiraity-Gjfice, April 21.Ext raid of a tetter from ddmiral Sir Hyde Parker,Commander in Chief of h-s Maje/iy i Ships and Vef-Jets employed on a particular Service, to Evan Ne¬pean, Efq. Secretary to the Admiralty, dated on boardbis Majefiy s fhip London, in Copenhagen Road, thei)th April, 1801.Sir,The Hon. Lieut. Col. Stewart having volunteeredhis ferviecs, by being the bearer of thefe difpatches, I1OfficersKilled.■*Seamen, Marines, and Soldiers,Wounded.. Officers, -: Seamen, Marines, and SoMiers,Total killed and wounded.r8have accepted thereof, on a belief that it will be mojexpeditious than by fea.1 have the pleafure to tranfnvit an Armiftice co leluded between the Court of Denmark and myfe’f.I mean, as foon as the difabled fhios are refute|and the word of the wounded moved into thaHoifte]Danifh (flip of the line, which I have commiffionedan hofpital fhip, to proceed over the Grounds into t!|execution the remaining partBaltic to put intomy inftru&ions.iiJ.The Ifis and Monarch being found in fo bad a dafrom the late a£tion, as to render it neceflary to fethem to England to have their damages repaired, I fh<fend the* home for that purpofe with the Holftehofpital-fhip, which has the wounded and lickboard.The Danith Government on the one hand, and Amiral-Sir Hyde Parker, Knight, Commander in Chiof his Britannic Majefty’s Naval Forces in the Roof Copenhagen on the other, being from motiveshumanity, equally anxious to put a flop to the furtheffufion of blood, and to fave the city of Copenhagfrom the dtfaflrous confequfinces which may attendfurther profecurion of hoftilities againft that cithave mutually agreed upon a Military ArmifticeSufpenfion of A.rmsHis Danifh Majefty having for that purpofe appoied Major-Gen. Erneft Frederick 'W’alterftorfF, Chaberlain to his Danifb Majefty, and Colonel of a Re,ment, and Adjutant Gen. Hans Linholm, Captainhis Danifh Majefty’s Navy, his Ccmmiff.oners forgreeing about the terms of the faid‘ Armiftice ; aiAdmiral Sir Hyde Parker, Knight, having, with tlfame view, duly authorifed the Right Hon. HoratLord Ne'.fon of the Nile, Knight of the Mod HoOrder of the Bath, Duke of Bronte in Sicily, Knigof the Grand Crols of the Order of St. Ferdinand aiof Merit, and of the Imperial Order of the CrefcerIpVice-Admiral in the 1?!eet of his Britannic Majefly,and the Hon. William Stewart, Lieutenant-Colonel inhis Britannic Majefty’s Service, and Member of Paviia-ment, and commanding a Detachment cf hi& Britan-{ivic Maj-ft y's Forces embarked; th«fe faid Com mi f-i fioners have met rhis day, and having exchanged theirrefnedlive Powers, have agreed upon the followingi terms:Art I From the moment of the fignature of the' A) miitice all hoftilities (hall immediately ceate betweenthe fket under the command of Admiral Sir HydeParker, and the City of Copenhagen, and all the arm¬ed fhips and Vefi'tls of bis Da'nifh h'Ljefty in the roador harbour of that city, as likewife between the dif-fierent Iflands and Provinces of Denmark, JutlandncludedArt il. The armed fhips and veflcls belonging toi his DunifhMajefty, ftiall remain in their prefent aftuali fituation as to armament, equipment, and hoftile pofi-i tion; and the treaty commonly uncerftoodastheTreatyofArmed Neutrality fhall. as far as relates to the co-o¬peration of Penmark, be fufpended, while the Armi-I flice remains in force : •On the other fide, the armed fhips and vcffels un-«|der the command of Admiral Sir Hyde Parker, (hallin no manner whatf ever mo’eft the city of Copenha¬gen or his Danifh Mqefty's armed fliipsand vefTcis ontthe coafts of the different Iflands and Provinces ofiDenmark, Jutland included ; and in order to avoidevery thing which might otherwife create uneaflnefstor jealoufy, Sir Hyde Parker fliall-not fuffer any of the:|fhips or veffels under his command to approach with-..jiin gun-fnot of the armed fhips or Forts of his DanifhMajefty’s in the Road of Copenhagen : this reftri&iouIfhall not, however, extend to veffels neceffarily paflingor repafling through the Gafpar or King’s Channel.Art. III. This Armift’.ce is to protedl the city ofCopenhagen, as alfuahe coafts of Denmark, of Jut-land, and Iflandfi-iucltided, aga'mil the attack of an)JiOther naval force which his Britannic Majefty ma)<row or hereafter, during its remaining in force, havsin thefe fea?.Art. IV. The fleet of Admiral Sir Hyde Parke(hall be permitted to provide itfelf at Copenhagen !iand along the coafts of the different Iflands and Pro¬vinces of Denmark and Jutland included, with everthing which it may require for the health and comfori of its crews.Art. V Admiral Sir Hyde Parker fhall fend on fliorall fuch fubje&s of his Danifh Majefty as are now o:|i;board the Britifh fleet under his command, the DaniGovernment engaging to give an acknowledgemenfor them, as alfo for a!! fuch wounded as were perrnitted to be landed after the a&ion of the 2d inft.order that they may be accounted for in favour oflGreat Britain, in the unfortunate event of the reneal of hoftilitiea.Art. VI. The eoafling trade carried on by Denmark, along all fuch parts of hercoaft as are includein the operation of the Armiftice, fhall be unmolefte’ |by any Britifh fhips or veffds whatever, and inftru£tions given accordingly by Admiral Sir Hyde Parker.Art. VII. This Armiftice is to continue uninterf.rupted by the Contrafting Parties for the fpacefoutteen weeks from the fignature hereof, at the exp-ration of which time it fhall be in the power of eitlieof the faid parties, to declare a ceffation of the fam.(and to recommence hoftilities, upon giving fourteedays previous notice.The conditions of this Armiftice are upon all occ:ftons to be explained ia the moft liberal and loyal mat!ner, fo as to remove all ground for future difputeand facilitate the means of bringing about the refterttion of harmony and good underltanding between thtv/o Kingdoms.llIIIn faith v/hereof, we the uuderG^ned Comtijiiaoneis,in virtue of our full powers, have (igned the pre-fent Armiuice, and have affixed to it the Seal pfour Arms.Done on board his Britannic Map fly’s fhip theLondon, in Copenhagen Roads, April the p,i8oi»(Signed^f L- S J Nelfcrn an^ Bronte.(L S J William Stewart.(L. S.) Erneji Frederick'}Walterjiorff. 5(L. S J Hans Lindhoim.In purfuance of my above-mentioned authority, Iratify this Document with my hand.(L. S.J " Frederick.Ratified by me,(l. S.J dfyde Parker, Admiral and Command¬er in Chief of his JBiitannic Majefty’sFleet.CHAP. IV.Confequences of the Victory.y T is juft to review the ‘ generefity, humanityj|_ and goodnefs, of Lord Nelfon, before weleave the confideration of this achievement, which,with ail its circumftances, has contributed more to theadvancement of our inttrefts, to the glory of our ef¬forts, and towards fuftaining the conteft in which weare engaged, than any of our former fplendid victories.After having deftroyed the whole line of battery,and obtained an entire triumph ; anxious to preventthe effufion of human blood, (till recurring to, andr retaining what he knew to be the principle on whichhe was inftsu£ted to a£t, and which was indeed moftfincerely the wifli of the Britifli Government, LordNelfon renewed by a meflage to the Crown Prince,thofe pacific offers which had been repeatedly made.22aru! to the failure of which alone, he faid, mull be at ,itributed the difafters, >j>hich might befal CopenhagenAfter having deftroyed the line of defence, under onof the heavieft fires which, an experienced Officedeclared, he ever felt, Lord Nelfon retired to his cabin, and wrote a letter to the Prince Royal of Denmark, exprelfing his dtfire that a fbg of truce mighbe fent on fliore *, dating, that if fuch permiffion wadenied, he would deftroy the vefTds and the floatinbatteries; and if fo, he could not be anfwerable fothe lives of the brave Danes, by whom they were defended. Thefe we hi his words.— In reply, thPrince Royal dtfired to know, why a propofition for :j:truce csme from him who had been fo fuccefsful.—I;Lord Nelfon replied, that the objr£t of his million wa rnot the deftru£tion of a brave people, but to maintailsfithe rights of his King and Country. His motive'were humanity ; he wiflied to fpare the tfFufionhuman blood ; and that no victory would be fo gratifying to him, as that which united the difpofitions ohis gracious Sovereign and thofe of a Prince withiJwhom he was defircus to continue in that har^onjwhich had fo long fubfifted between them. Struckwith the magnanimity and fingular generofity of fuela meflage from a Conqueror, the Prince inftantly acceded to the propofal. In confequence of this, LoreNelfon went on fhore. He was received on fhore ba brave and generous people, (for fuch they provecthemfelves to be, who had loft fight of their rccendifaftei) with the loudeft acclamations of admirationHe was received by the Prince of Denmark alfo in jmanner which does honour to that Prince, and therehe difplayed the politics of an able ftatefman, as eminentlyas he had formerly thecondu£t of a gallant ancvktkorious naval officer, and, in conjun£tion with thedeath of Paul, who died a few days before the actionterminated a war as foon as it was begun.Whether Pau-1 died a natural death or by afliffinsis not yet pufitivelfc known : Whether this vidoryt^ISrfiTrhad he iived to hear of it, which ptovet! that his arfe-i nais and fleets, aswell as thcfe ci Sw eden, were witiiin'the reach of our arms, whether it would have changedhis timid mind, is rot worth inquiring into. It isimore pleafing to ki o\v, that before it was fought, hisIjeldtiv fon, Alexander, the preftnt emperor, had liber-lated the Britifh feamen who had been imprifoned by'his father, bad tranfmitted to ,cur King pofitive af-ifirrar.ees of his defire to have the ancient friendly in-tercourfe between the two counuics.efiabliflred ; andas we now fee the embargoes taken clF, and the com¬mercial intercourfe with all the time countries re¬lumed, we may juftlycondudepeaceiobc finally fettled.CHAP. V.Char after of the Empercr Alexander.IT T may rot be unpleafing to the reader that we; JL introduce here the chara£ler of the prefent emper-:or, while he was Grand Duke, as given by an in-igeniovrs foreignei, from whofe works is taken that ofPaul.He inherits frem Catharine an elevation of fenti-ment and an unalterable equality of temper: a mindi(uft and penetrating and an uncommon diferetion;;Dut a referve and circumfpe&ion unfuitable to hisjiage, and which might be taken for diffimulation, didt not evidently proceed rather from the delicate fitu-ation in'w hich he was placed between his father andgrandmother, than from his heart, which is naturally-rank and ingenuous.- He inherits his mother’s ftatureamd beauty, as vat 11 as her mildnefs and benevolence,'.while in none of his features does he refemble hisfather, and he muft certainly dread him more thaniove him. Paul, conjecturing the intentions of Ca-I harine in favour of thi? fon, has always behaved tokl-y towards him; fince he difeovers in him no refem-.t^lance of chara^er, and no conformity of tafte with24hinifeif: foi Alexander appears tc do what his fathsrequires of hirr>; from a principle of filial duty rath<|than compliance with his own inclinations; His himanlty has acquired him the hearts of the foldierhis good fenfe the admiration of the officers :the o^nfiant mediator between the autocrat and tunhappy perfcns who, by fotre trifling negledb,have provoked imperial wrath and vengeance.Young Prince requires not the dignity of grduke of Ruffia to infpire fentiments of love and ireft ; nature has richly endowed him with the iamiable qualities, and his chara&er of heir togreateft empire in the world, cannot render therrdifferent to humanity. Heaven, perhaps,- may ideftired him to render thirty millions of people rtree than they are at prefent, and more worthy oiing fo.His chara£er, however, though amiable, is pafHe wants the courage and confidence to difeoverman of merit, always modeft and unobtrufive ; aris to be feared, that the meft importunate and irrchnt, who are generally the moft ignorant and ious-, will find leaft difficulty in procuring accefshim. Yielding too eafily to the impuifes of othersdoes not fufficiently confolt his own heart and un<{landing. He appears to have loft his reliffi forfiru£tion, on lofing his mafters, and specially coltL'Harpe, his firfl preceptor, to whom he owes allknowledge he has acquired. A premature marriajmay have contributed to diminifli his energy ; andis probable that, notwithftandirtg his good qualitiehe will become in time the dupe of liis courtiers, areven of his valets.• FI NigAir, Printed hy ?J. &P. Wilfen, iSoi.J