^ *WV^CWVJ^WS.-^^TK ^vc^i^RA*fi JOHN PAI,1CSRK‘Sy CAR I CHE S,SIr , TO WHICH IS ADDEDTAM MERRILEES;A CAPITAL STORY.GLASGOW ;PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS. )> ^JOHN FALKIRK’S.. *CARICHES®Question, What is the wisest behaviour of ig-lorant persons ?Answer, To speak of nothing but what theyIcnow, and to give their opinion of nothing butwhat they thoroughly understand.Ques. What time is it when a scolding wifeis at her best ?Ans. When she is fast asleep.Q. What time is a scolding wife at the worst ?A. When she is that wicked as to tear the hairout of her head, when she cannot get at herneighbours, and through perfect spite bites herown tongue with her own teeth My hearty wishis, that all such wicked vipers may ever do so.Q. What is the most effectual cure and infal¬lible remedy, for a scolding wife ?A. The only cure is to get out of the hearingof her; but the infalible remedy is to nail hertongue to a growing tree, in the beginning of aQ. What time of the year is it that theremost holes open ?cold winter night, and so let it stand till sun-ing next morning, then she’ll become one ofpeaceablest women that ever lay by a man’s siA. In harvest when there are stubbles.Q. What time is a cow heaviest ?A. When the bull’s on her back.Q. Who was the goodman’s muckle cowlcalf’s motherA. The muckle cow herself.Q. What is the likeliest thing to a man on |horse ?A. A Tailor on a mare.Q. What is the hardest dinner that ever |Tailor laid h's teeth to?A. His own goose, tho’ ever so well boile|or roasted.Q. How many toads’ tails will it take tcreach up to the moon ?A. One, if it be long enough.Q. How many sticks gangs to tne ngging oia craw’s nest ?A. None, tor they are all carried.Q. How many whites will a well made puding-prick need?A. When well made it will need no morei)Q. Who was the father of Zebedee s eliild-ren ?A. Zebedee himself.Q. Where did Moses go when he was fallfifteen years old ?A. Into his sixteenth.Q. How near related is your aunty’s good-brother to you ?A. He is my fatherQ. How many holes are there in a hen'sdoup ? A. Two.Q. How prove you that ?A. There is one for the dung ana another forthe egg.Q. What is the best method of catchingrogues ?A. There is none so fit as a rogue himself.Q. Where was the usefulest fair in Scotlandkept ?A. At Mullgay.Q. Wliat sort of commodities were there ?A. Nothing but ale and wicked wives.Q. How was it abolished?A. Because those that went to it once wouldgo to it no more.Q. For what reason ?A. Because there was no money to oe got forthem but fair barter, wife for wife; and he whoCjpul away a wife fo( one i'auit, got another th.her with two as bad.Q. What was the reason, that in those daysa man eould put away his wife for pissing the bed,but not for sh g it ?A. Because he could push it away with hisfoot and lie down.Q. What is the reason now a-days, that meneourt, cast, marry, and re-marry so many wives,and only but one in public at last ?A. Because private marriage is become ascommon as smuggling, and cuckolding no morethought of than for a man to ride a mile or twoupon his neighbour’s mare: men get will andwale of wives; the best portion and properest per¬son is preferred, the first left the weak to theworst; and she whom he does not love he puts a-way, and lies down with whom he pleases.Q. How will one know the bairns of our townby all others in the kingdom ?A. By their ill-breeding and bad manners.Q. What is their ill-breeding and bad man¬ners ?A. If you ask them a question in civility, ifit were but the road to the next town, they’ll tellyou to follow your nose, and if you go wrong,curse the guide.<Q. Are young and old of them alike lor illflpreeding ?A. All the odds lies in the difference, for ify7ou ask a child to whom he belongs, or who ishis father, he’ll bid you kiss his father’s arse andthen you’ll ken.(Q. What sort of creatures are kindliest whenhey meet ?A. None can exceed the kindness of dogswhen they meet in a market.Q. And what is collie’s conduct when there ?A. First, they kiss other’s mouths and noses,mell all about, and last of all, they are so kindias to kiss each other below the tail.Q. What is the coldest part of a dog ?A. His nose.Q. What is the coldest part of a man ?A. His knees.Q. What is the coldest part of a woman ?A. Her backside.Q. What is the reason that these three partsof men, women, and dogs are coldest ?A. Fabulous Historians, says, that there werethree little holes in Noah’s Ark ; and that thedog stopt his nose in one, and the man puthis knee in another, and into the third and bigg¬est hole, the woman bang’d her backside: andthese parts being exposed to the cold blast, is;the cause which makes them cold ever since.Q. What remedy does the man take for towarm his cold knees ?A. He holds them towards the fire; andand when in bed, draws his shirt down over them.Q. What does the women do, to warm theircold part.A. The married women put their backsidesinto their husbands’ arms :—Virgins, and thosegoing mad for marriage, their maidenhead keeps jthem warm :—old matrons, and whirl’d-o’ermaidens, and widows bewdtched, hold their cold¬est parts to the fire.Q. And what remedy does the poor nogtake for his cold nose ?A. He staps it below his tail, the hotest bitin his body.Q. What is the reason the dogs are worston chapmen than on any other strangers ?A. It is said, the dogs have three accusations Iagainst the chapman, which has been handed Idown from father to son, or from one generationof dogs to another : the first is as old as JEsop,the great wit of Babylon The dogs having alawsuit aganst the cats, they gained the plea;one of the dogs coming trudging home with the |Decreet below his tail, a wicked chapman threw9ais ell-wan at him, and he let the Decreet falld so lost their great privileges thereby. Theecond is, because in old times the chapmensed to buy dogs and kill them for their skins,'he third reason is, when a chapman was quart¬ered at a farmer’s house, that night the Dogost his right of licking the poQ. What creature resembles most a drunkenPiper ?A. A Cat when she sips milk, for then shealways sings, and so does a piper when he drinksgood ale.Q. What is the reason a dog runs twice roundbefore he dies down ?A. Because he does not know the head ofb: his bed from the foot of it.; Q. What creature resembles most a longllean, ill-looking greasy-faced lady, for pride?A. None so much as a cat, who is contin-i§ ually spitting in her lufe and rubing her| face, as many such ladies do the brown leather^ of their wrinkled drafts.Q. Amongst what sort of creatures will you|iobserve most of a natural law, or instinctivei knowledge ?A, The Hart and the Hind meet on one cer-|111 tain day in the year ; the Brood Goose, lays herji first egg on Eastern’s Even, old stile ; the Crows10iDegiii to buiid their nest about the first of March |old stile; the Swans, observe matrimony,and if a Ifemale die, the male dare not take up with an¬other or the rest will put him to death ; all theBirds in general join in pairs and keep so ; butthe Dove resembles the adulterer, when the hengrows old he puts her away and takes another;'the Locusts observe military order, and marchin bands ; the Frogs resembles gipsies and ped- ilers, for the young ones ride the old ones to ideath.Q. Who are the merriest and heartiest peo-, pie in the world ?A. The Sailors, for they’ll be singing and icursing and darning one another when the waves(their graves,) are going over their heads.Q. Which are the disorderliest creatures inbattle ?A. Cows and dogs; for they all fall on themthat are neathmost.Q. What are the vainest sort of people in theworld ?A. A Barber, a Tailor, a young Soldier, and apoor dominie.Q. What is the great cause of the barber’svanity.A. Because he is admitted to trim Noble¬men’s chafte. thake their sculls, take Kings by ;11#the nose, and hold a razor to their very throats,which no other subject dare presume to do.Q. What is the great cause of the Tailor’spride ?A. His making of peoples new clothes, ofwhich every person, young and old is proud.Then who can walk in a vainer show than atailor carrying home a gentleman’s new clothes ?Q. What is the cause of a young soldier’spride ?A. When he lists, he thinks he is free of hismother’s correction, the hard usage of a bad mas¬ter, his liberty to curse, swear, whore, and doevery thing, until he be convinced by four halbertsand the drummer’s whip, that he has now gotboth a civil and military law above his head, and,perhaps, far worse masters than ever.Q. What is the cause of the poor dominie’spride ?A. As he is the teacher of the young andignorant, he supposes no man knows what heknows; and because boys call him master, there¬fore he thinks himself a great man.Q. What song is it that is sung without atongue, and yet its notes are understood by peo¬ple of all nations?A. It is a fart every one knows the sound of.Q. What is the reason that young people are,2vain, giddy-headed and airy, and not so obedientas the children of former years ?A. Because they are brought up and educat¬ed after a more haughty strain, by reading fables,plays, novels, and romances; g'ospel books, suchas the Psalm-book, Proverbs, and Catechisms,are like old almanacks ; there is nothing in vo¬gue but fiddle, flute, Troy and Babylonishtunes ; our plain English speech is corrupted withbeauish cants, such as dont, wont, nen, and ken ;a jargon worse than the Yorkshire dialect or theHottentot gibberish,Q. Why is swearing become so common a-mong Scotch people ?A. Because so many lofty teachers came fromthe south amongst us, where swearing is practisedin its true grammatical perfection ! Hot oaths,new struck, hath as bright a lustre as a newquarter guinea just come from the mint.Q. How will you know the bones of a mason’smare at the back of a dyke, amongst the bones ofa hundred dead horses lying in the same place ?A. Because it is made of w7ood.Q. What are the two things not to be spared,but not to be abused ?A. A soldier’s coat and a hired horse.Q. How is a man in debt like a nobleman ?A. Because he has many to wait on and calljx’ him.Q. How is swearing like a shabby coat ?A. Because it is a bad habit.Q. How is a bad pen like a wicked and pro¬gate man ?A. Because it wants mending.Q. Why is a church bell like a story that ismded about ?A. Because it is often toll’d.Q. What is a man like that is in the midst ofriver and cannot swim ?A. He is like to be drowned.Q. Why is a drawn tooth like a thing that isgot ?A. Because it is out of one’s head.Q. Why is a book like a tree ?A. Because it is full of leaves.Why is a good sermon like a plumpIdding ?Because there is reasons in it.How is a wherish woman like a charitableson ?Because she brings her husband to a piece|bread.J. How is a lawyer like a contentious wo¬rn?Because he breeds wrangling and jangling.14Q. Who is the greatest fool in the world ?’A. A whore; for she hazards soul and body1or a miserable livelihood.Q. Who are the two greatest thieves inGreat Britain ?A. Tea and Tobacco, for they pick the poc-jkets of the whole nation.Q. W hat is the difference between Ale-drapers and Linen-drapers ?A. Only this, the one cheats you with frotand the other with cloth.Q. If Extortioners cannot enter the Kingdo:of Heaven, where will Usurers, Tallymen, anPawn-brokers go.A. The same road with Extortioners.Q. What is the consequence of immoderaigaming ?A. By cards and dice, a man is ruin’d intrice? for gaming and whoring often hang tgether.Q. What employments are likest to one arrther ?A. Soldiers and Butchers are bloody near relations, for they both live by slaughtering ankilling.Q. W7hat are the two hardest things tofound, and yet they are both good in their kind!A. Good women, and good small beer.15Q. Who is the likest to a Boatman ?A. An hypocrite, who always looks one wayand rows another, in all his transactions,Q, What are the five greatest rarities to befound in the world ?A. A black Swan, a Phoenix, an Unicorn,the Philosophers’ Stone, and a maiden at sixteen.Q. What is the greatest folly that sensiblepeople can be guilty of?A. To go to law about trifles, for whateverway the plea end, the lawyers will be the great¬est gainers.Q. Who has the honestest trade in the world ?A. Ballad-singers; for they always deal withready-money: and it is as ancient as the Siegeof Troy, for Homer was a ballad-singer.Q. What is the surest method for one to be¬come both rich and respectable ?A. To be sober and industrious.Q. What is the best method of overcomingthe argument of a positive person ?A. Either to say with him, or give him noanswer.Q. What is the wisest course to be followedby a man who has a brawling and scolding wife ?A. To keep silent, and then she’ll bite herown fingers with anger.16Q. What thing is that which is lengthenedby being cut at both ends? A. A Ditch.Q. What is tlurt which was born without a-soul, lived and had a sold, yet died without a.soul. ,A. The whale that swallowed Jona.Q. What is the longest and the shortest thingin the world ? the swiftest and the slowest ? themost indivisible and the most extended ? the leastvalued and the most regretted ? without whichnothing can be done ? which devours all that issmall, yet gives life and spirit to all that is great ?A. Time.Q. What creatures are those which appearclosely connected, yet upon examination are foundto be three distinct bodies, with eight legs, fiveon one side, and three on the other; three mouths,two straight forwards, and the third on one side;six eyes, four on one side, two on the other ; sixears, four on one side, and tw'o on the other ?A. A Man and Woman on horseback.Q. Why is a churchyard like an inn ?A. Because it receives weary travellers.Q, Why is a carrotty lady like a troop ofsoldiers.A. Because she bears fire-locks.Q. What did Adam fiirst set in the gardenof Eden ? A. His foot.Q. How is it that a clergyman’s horse islike a King?A. Because he is guided by a minister.Q. What is the difference between a boiledsheep’s, head and a sheep’s head boiled ?A. In the first the sheep is boiled and in thelast the head is boiled.Q. What kind of snuff is that, the more thatin taken the fuller the box is ?A. It is the snuff off the candle'.Q. W hat relation is that child to its ownfather who is not its father’ own son ?A. Surely his daughter.Q. What is that which is often brought totable, always cut, but never eaten ?A. A pack of cards.Q. Where was Peter when his candle wentout ? A. He was in the dark.Q. What relation is your uncle’s brother to.you who is not your uncle ?A. He must be your father.Q. What difference is there between twicefive and twenty and twice twenty five ?A. The former is 30, the later is 50-Q. Why is a brewer’s horse like a tap-ster ?A. Because they draw drafts of drink.END OF THE CARICHES.18THESTRANGE ADVENTURES,OFTAM MERRILEES/A True Story.Some years ago there dwelt in the “south side”of the gude town of Edinburgh a wight of thename of Tam Merrilees, who, saving that heoccasionally took rather more of “strong waters”than he could walk steadily under, generally gotthe name of an honest, industrious, hard-workingman. It happened one evening that Tam, in go¬ing home, met with an old crony of his, wdio ve¬hemently pressed him to adjourn to a favouritehaunt of rheir’s to wit a well frequented taproomin the neighbourhood. As Tam had an unfor¬tunate weakness of never being able to withstandthe pressing solicitations of a friend “ to tak agill wi him,” he was in the present instance con¬strained to accept Jock Thomson’s invitation,more especially as Jock declared that “ he wouldstand the damage himsel ”. Whether they ex¬ceeded the original stipulation of “just one gill”or Tam had been previously refreshing himselfI cannot say, certain it wav, that when the/friends parted, Tam found it extremely difficultto walk in a straight line.It was considerable past the witching hour oflight that Tam Merrilees proceeded towards hislouse, rather a little in dread of a curtain lecture.The night was dark ; and the wind blowing hardn his teeth, added to his unsteadiness, causedijiim several times to reel against the sides of theouses, as he passed the Chapel of Ease. Onef these unlucky staggers brought his shoulder toear full against the door which led into the kirk-ard. To Tam’s great astonishment it flew o-en ; and having lost his equilibrium, he made art of semicircular movement, and found himselfnding in the midst of tombs and headstones.Hech,” said he, “ the door open at this hour’ the night! that’s extraordinar’—its incompre-ensible. What in a’ the warld’s that ?” con~nued he, perceiving something at his feet,pon stooping down he discovered that the ob-ict of which had arrested his attention was a.(heelbarrow, having upon, it a dead body,urst neck and heels into a sack. Tam liftedi his hands in amazement, and steping forwardirceived at the other end of the ground some'.en engaged in filling up the grave from whichig corps had been taken. “ Resurrectioners,I'm a living man I ” he exclamed. “ WhaI•20wad hae thought it ? —but I'll gi’e the devi.such a fright as they never got the like o’t,The whiskey had undoubtedly raised his couragito the highest pitch; for, untying the sack,drew the body from it and carrying it on hiback to the opposite side of the church-yard, hireared it upright against the wall. He then nturned to the barrow, and having placed the saiupon it, he crept in and disposed himself in thsame manner as he found the body.He had scarcely laid down when the men a;proached They spoke a few words sufficiensfor him to discover that one of the party was thjsexton himself. The barrow was wheeled ofand he heard the gate locked immediately,the wheelbarrow rattled over the rough causeway ^Tam’s stomach began to feel rather queer—h fnevertheless resolved to lie quiet until they shoulstop. After a short time, however, he becamaware that, if his jolting was not put an end tohis stomach would be speedily emptied of thcontents In short, he found it almost imposible any longer to refrain from vomiting. Hetherefore no alternative but to raise himself upthe vehicle; and accordingly, he suddenly starteup, and stretching out his arms with great videosoon disencumbered the upper part of his bo'from the sack in which he had been invelo}WilrN,21The consternation of the body-lifters may be im¬agined. The one who was wheeling the barrows-uddenly let go his hold, by w'hich means it up¬set, and both taking to their heels, they ran as it’the evil on himself had been in chase of them.By the upsetting of the barrow, Tam Merrileeswas rolled upon the ground : however, havingmanaged to get entirely free from the sack ; andregain his legs, he found himself at the end of theCross causeway, near St. Leonard's. He scratch-ed his head, and taking a snuff, began to con¬sider how he was to dispose of the barrow. “ Itis no sic a bad wheelbarrow',” said he; “ I’ll justtak it hame wi' me ? so throwing into it the sack,he made the best of his way home, feeling a gooddeal soberer for his adventure On his arrival athome he deposited the barrow in a small yard atthe back of the house; and without facing his ex¬pectant spouse, he proceeded straightway to thedwelling of Maister Peter Mitchell, an old ac¬quaintance, and moreover an elder of the kirk.On his road thither he indulged in no very gen¬tle denunciations against the sexton. “ A finefellow to trust folks’ bodies wi’! I’se warrant allthe corpses that’s been buried thonder for the lasttwalvemonth haegaen the same gate as that yinwad if I had na’ prevented it. It’s an aw fu’ thingthat folk canna get leave to rest in their graves22now-a-daye for thae doctors." Tam’s reflectionswere interrupted by his arrival at the elder’shouse; the inmates were all gone to bed, withthe exception of the elder himself, who was doubt-css rather surprised at so late, or rather early, avisit from his friend Tam Merrilees. ( It was?now between one and two of the morning.) ‘ Mr.Merrilees P exclaimed he, ‘ what was broughtyou here at this time of tne night? Nothingserious, I hope.’ c Serious enough,’ mutteredTam. ‘ I’m just come, Maister Mitchell, ye see,about an unco queer kind o’ a circumstance.’Aye, Mr. Merrilees, what is it ? Sit down andlets hear it.’ ‘ I’ll just speer at ye a sma’ questionfirst,’ answered Tam— ‘ What kina o’ a body isthat grave-digger o‘ yours ?’ ‘ Is it WillieScrymgeom; ye mean ?’ asked the elder. c Aye5man, its just him; dyce think he{s an honestman ?’ ‘ An honest man !’ echoed Mr. Mitchell‘ what should make you ask that; he‘s no beenstealing surely.’ ‘ I tin no saying that,’ respon¬ded Tam, 4 but div ye think he wad lift a corpse,or any thing o4 that kind ?’ 4 Surely not, Mr.Merrilees,’ said the anxious elder, drawing hischair closer? 4 you do not mean body-lifting—the man that4s trusted with the keys of the burial-ground !’ 4 Itin no saying, Mr. Mitchell, that helifts bodies. I’ll no say that the noo; but I’llMin i;f:P'iiHNil:.,t!)f4'‘liiitL,,.,23jll ye what, lie disnu mak them bide in theirmves. What will yo wager, Mr. Mitchell, thatiere‘s no a dead woman standing- up against the-a‘, in the kirk-yard ?’ ‘ The manS daft!’ utteredte astonished Mr. Mitchell. ‘ Gang awra‘a me to your wife, Tam Merrilees, and sleep your-df sober.’—‘ Sober,’ said Tam, very dryly,did ye say sober ? Hum ! that‘11 be just as muckles saying that Tin fou’; may be I am, may be no;ut if you think sae, Mr. Mitchell, that‘11 noinder ye fra taking a bet upon it.’ After a|ngthened parley, in which Tam strenuouslyipported his assertion, Maister Mitchell, in oi¬ler to get rid of his visitor’s company, was fain toccept a bet of a dozen of £ strong ale’ that noich thing existed, save in Tam£s imagination ;id it was agreed that the two should call at thexton£s house at seven o£ clock, and procure theeys, after which they wTere to proceed to theeene of dispute. Who can imagine the amaze-lent of the horror-struck elder, at perceiving thesrps of a woman standing upright against Sheall, in the very identical spot that Tam had des-dbetl ? It was some time ere he could sufficientlyimpose himself to interrogate Tam upon so my-erious an affair. On his explaining the wholercumstance, the elder£s risibility was not a littleused at Tam£s description of the ioltino: he had21suffered, while his indignation was as much rousagainst the dishonest Willie Scrymgeour. 4 WeMr. Merrilees,’ said he, ‘ you have been soberlast night than I thought you were; and as i||that worthless grave digger, he has had these ke|too long already ; but he has now seen the h:of them’ The elder was as good as his wonthe sexton w'as dismissed, and his place filleda more trust-worthy individual, w7hile the dozof ‘ strong ale’ was drank wih much glee.FINIS.• - >1 ; d.