WONDERFUL ADVENTURESIIITSSH SEAMENLiBR^'VOF SCOTLA^^eD!|sjpA'GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOO;ALSO,A CURE FOR THE TOOTHACHL■ - •ADVENTURESOFSIXTEEN BRITISH SEAMEN.The history of tho war of independance in the westernstates of South America is interspersed with num¬erous instances of remarkable adventures. Desult¬ory in its nature, and unconnected in its details,that war was peculiarly fitted to call into activitythe latent energies of those who participated in itsperils ; and the spirit of bold enterprise to which itgave rise was shared no less by those who fared onthe sea, than by the scattered guerilla parties on thecontinent. The banner of freedom indeed, hadhardly been raised on the towers of Valparaiso, whennumerous bands of hardy seamen fitted out theirbarks for predatory adventure ; and privateers inparticular, received both encouragement and assis¬tance from the insurgent government, whose policyit was to weaken, by every possible means, themaritime power of the mother country. Foreigners,a-, well as Americans, eagerly embarked in thebusiness of legalised plunder, not from any principleof patriotism, it is obvious, but upon more mercen¬ary speculation. British sailors, more than thoseof any other country, were enamoured of the exploitswhich such a field of enterprise presented for theirachievement, and many of them left their peacefulLondon and Liverpool traders to share, if not inthe honours, at least in the anticipated profit andpleasure of a course, perhaps a life, of perpetualhostility.4Previous to the arrival of Lord Cochrane’s fleeton the coast of Chili, privateering was nearly at itsheight in the South American seas, and it is tothat period, namely, to 1818, that the followingisolated passage of history belongs.Soon after Valparaiso had fallen into the handsof the revolutionary forces, a few British seamenresolved to set up as privateers on the Chilian andPeruvian coasts. With this view, having in thefirst instance, procured the governer’s licence theypurchased an old West Indian drugger-boat, as sorrylooking a craft as ever ventured a league to sea, butthe small stock of dollars which they had succeededin scraping together, did not enable them to pur¬chase one better fitted for their purpose. Havingtaken a few additional hands into partnership, theysoon put a deck upon her, and otherwise rigged herout in pretty tolerable style. They next collecteda quantity of old arms, consisting of muskets, pistols,cutlasses, boardingpikes, and two small swivels,which they mounted on the boats timber-heads;but as they were to trust chiefly to boarding, theytook on board no cannon—their bark, indeed, was,from its diminutive size, utterly unfit for this grandinstrument of war. Altogether, their outfit and the.object of it seemed somewhat of a burlesque uponordinary privateering ; but they were good humour¬ed fellows, fond of a joke, and their own masters,so they did not mind the mirth and harmless ridiculewhich their armament excited.Thus equiped, and having stowed on board a fewbales of dry jerk beef, with some other necessaryarticles of provision, they put to sea, determinedto make the most of every thing they should meetwith. The crew consisted of sixteen hands, com¬manded by one Mackay, a Scotsman, who had a5short time before resigned the office of steward inthe South-Sea whaler, and who had originally pro¬jected this mad-like scheme. They had only onecourse to follow; for the trade wind which blowsfor a considerable part of the year constantly fromthe south, carried them briskly up the wide coast ofPeru. On their voyage, which was extended to aconsiderable distance beyond Lima, they had notthe good fortune to fall in with a single legitimateprize ; but running short of provisions, they weresoon forced to put under contribution such tradingvessels and boats as they happened to fall in with.Supporting themselves entirely by compulsorylevies, it was not long before they lost all propersence of a distinction between plundering andprivateering ; but the plea of necessity was alwaysat hand to satisfy their not over-scrupulous con¬sciences, that in employing such means to supplytheir wants, they did nothing morally wrong—orat least that, circumstanced as they were, their do¬ings amounted, at the utmost, to justifiable mar¬auding. Their acts of depredation become so fre¬quent, however, and in some instances of so aggra¬vated a character, that they soon excited alarmthroughout the whole coast. Even at Lima theywere heard of. At one period, indeed, it was ser¬iously intended by the authorities there, to dispatcha small force to consign the drugger and her pilfer¬ing crew to the bottom of the ocean ; but they weresaved the trouble of carrying their threat into execu¬tion. The offenders soon brought on their ownapparent ruin ; for, dreaded by friends no less thanby foes, they were in a few weeks shunned and runfrom by every bark that hove in sight. Smugglers,as well as people of their own calling, refused notonly to relieve their wants, but to hold any inter-eourse with them ; and they were at the same timedenied all communications with the peaceable ci¬tizens on shore. Thus situated, both their provi¬sions and water were speedily exhausted and, to addto their distress, their little vessel became leaky tosuch a degree that she was almost wholly unfit forsea, while they were themselves worn out with theconstant exertion which was necessary to keep herafloat.They were, therefore, compelled to turn towardsValparaiso ; but, under the difficulties they had toencounter, the attempt to reach that port was al¬most a hopeless one. The wind blew right a-head,whila they had neither provisions, nor were they ina situation in other respects to venture upwards ofa hundred miles from land, in order to fall underthe north trade-wind. In these painful circumstan¬ces, and not daring to touch at any of the inter¬mediate ports, there was no alternative but to rowback to Valparaiso. They were not without someapprehension, too, that Spanish frigates might becruizing on the coast, into whose hands they knewit would be certain destruction to fall. No wonder,therefore, that their spirits flagged a little, and thatthey now crept along the coast with a degree ofcaution that contrasted strikingly with there formerreckless disregard of all danger. It was only duringthe night, indeed, that they coasted along ; duringthe day they skulked in close to the land, conceal¬ing themselves in unfrequented creeks and amongthe rocks, where they employed themselves in fish¬ing, now the only means by which they obtained asubsistance.While thus fighting their way against fortunenot the winds, they chanced to fall in with an In¬dian fisherman, whom they made prisoner, with7the view of procuring from him information re¬specting the state of the coast; and they had an eyealso to his fishing apparatus, as well as to the benefitof his superior skill in the art of using it, for byI this time they were sorely pressed by the commonwants of our nature. By the Indian they were in¬formed that'the coast was clear of king’s ships—thatan armed merchantman from Old Spain had arrivedat Arica (a fortified town still in the hands of theroyalists) a few days before, and that she was lyingunder the protection of the fort, ready to dischargea valuable cargo. Their disappointment at havingmissed the opportunity of falling in with so rich aprize, in consequence of useless, and in other re¬spects hurtful delays, was extreme, for they enter¬tained no doubt whatever, that, had they been downin time, as they would have been but for thesedelays, the Minerva would have been the reward ofall their privations. Disappointment is not a feel¬ing that arises in the mind, and then instantaneouslypasses away ; it recurs again and again, to vex thespirit, and to rouse its energies to redeem the mis-I taken or neglected step by which it has been troub-| led. With the crew of the drugger-boat it operatedwith instantaneous effect, and they were at thesame time stimulated, by the severe presure ofexisting necessities, to form the desperate resolutionof attempting the capture of the Minerva. Butthen, on fai-ther interrogation, the Indian added,that besides being armed with five and twenty guns,and lying, as the vessel did, within musket shot ofa strong battery, she had received on board, inaddition to a numerous crew, upwards of 250 Spain-ish soldiers, for the especial purpose of protectingher from any piratical or predal attack. Thesewere difficulties which to the ordinary run of mortals,would have been considered as absolutely insur¬mountable ; but, by the handful of famishing tars,they were viewed in no such light. The crew ofthe Minerva did not enter into their calculationat all; for, once on board, with cutlass in hand,they would speedily be overcome ; and the fort,though strong enough to blow them out of thewater in five minutes, would not surely (so theyreasoned among themselves) be so regardless ofSpanish life and Spanish property, as to sink theMinerva in order to destroy a few impertinentmaurauders already on board of her. The formid¬able guard of soldiers could not however, be soconveniently disposed of. To attempt a fair standup fight with a force numerically so far superior,would be to court certain destruction. It thereforeappeared to them that the only means by which thedifficulty might, by possibility, be obviated, was toboard the vessel by surprise at midnight, and tosecure her hatches—a plan sufficiently simple initself, and effectual too, provided it could be prompt¬ly accomplished. A council of war, consisting of allhands, having been held, the scheme underwentsolemn, but by no means deliberate discussion, andwas pronounced quite practicable ! ! This pointfinally settled to every one’s entire satisfaction, andevening coming on, they stole out from among therocks where they had been concealed during the day,and hove warly down towards the mouth of thesemicircular bay, in the innermost verge of whichstands the beautiful town of Arica. before day¬break they again betook themselves to a hiding-place, close on shore, some eight or ten miles distantfrom Arica; and, ere the sun had been an hourabove the horizon, each in his turn had sliped outin the Indian’s canoe to enjoy a stolen peep at the9expected prize. Their arms and ammunition werenow carefully overhauled. Every pistol received afresh flint, and its lock a touch of oil. A sufficientquantity of powder was spread out on an old top sailI to dry in the sun; and, while engaged in settling the: details of the assault, they employed their hands in1 giving their rusty cutlasses the keen edge of a razor,j All tins day a little putrid water was their only re-i ; freshment, for they had not had leisure to attemptI the capture of a single fish ; hut their mental anxietywas sufficiently intense to absord all consciousnessof physical wants.The poor Indian fisherman was kept as much aspossible in the dark as to the important part thatwas to be assigned to him in the affair. He hap¬pened to be the only one on board who could speakSpanish with sufficient fluency to escape instantdetection ; and, in the event of being challengedby the Minerva’s sentinels, he was instructed tosay that they were the bearers of dispatches forthe captain from the commander of the SpanishI fleet.Towards evening the wind died away into adead calm, and the moon rose with just as muchlight as sufficed to render objects close at handsufficiently distinguishable, while there was notuiough of it to expose to view those at a distance.Thus favoured, the sixteen lion-hearted Britishseamen left their lurking place, and stole into thehay towards the Minerva. About midnight thedull light of a lantern on board became visible,and in a few minutes afterwards the dim outline ofthe vessel’s hull was discovered. For a momentthe drugger’s oars were suspended to allow hercrew to draw one deep breath before striking thedesperate blow. During this pause, each man10ascertained that his brace of pistols was in his belt,and his cutlass and boarding-pike at hand. Theircourage required no “ screwing up,” for in one andall of them it naturally remained, at all times,above the “ sticking pointbut at this momentof suspense, it may easily be conceived that theirbreasts were swelled with a tumult of distractingemotion, and with that burning solicitude which isproduced, even in the bravest, by the consciousnessthat the moment has arrived when nought remainsbut to do or die. Agitated but not confused bythese feelings, the drugger’s crew rowed fearlesslyforward upon the Minerva’s larboard side. Allwas quiet, until they reached within musket shotof the ship ; it was then that the night-watchsung out a challenge. “ Dispatches from the fleetfor the captain,” was the fisherman’s answer.“ Keep off—the captain is on shore,” replied thesentry. “Pull on, pull on, ye devils,’’ whisperedMackay. “ Stand off, you there, or I’ll sink you,by Saint Maria,” reiterated the sentry; and thethreat having been disregarded, he fired his musketinto the boat, but without effect. “ Slap alongside,my lads,” cried Tom Martin; “keep clear o’herstinsails.” But Tom’s warning was too late ; for atthis most critical moment the drugger’s mast andcordage ran foul of the Minerva’s swinging-boom,which, as is usual in large ships, had been riggedout for the purpose of mooring the boats, and aconsiderable swell causing the Minerva to rollheavily, the difficulty of boarding even withoutresistance, was, in the situation in which they werenow placed, rendered almost insurmountable. Nota moment, however, was lost. Martin, firing apistol among a knot of Spaniardscollected on the gangway, sei11erva’s “ quis work,” and mounting the swinging-boom, was instantly on board. He was speedilyfollowed by several of his shipmates, who, withoututtering a word, commenced an almost unresistedattack on the astonished Spaniards. Meanwhilethe drugger had been swung round by the swell,till she came right alongside of the Minerva, andthe remainder of the assailants easily scrambled ondeck. The conflict was bloody, but of brief dura¬tion, for so instantaneous had been the assault, andpanic struck as the Spaniards were by its temerity,they made little or no resistance ; and their unex¬pected visitors experienced little difflculty in driv¬ing those who had escaped with life down thehatchway. The only man amongst them, indeed,who defended himself with true courage, was theMinerva’s boatswain. This brave fellow, who en¬countered Mackay, placed his back against thebulwarks, and defended himself noblv, but havingrefused to ask for quarter, his antagonist was re¬luctantly compelled to cut him down.The hatches were now secured upon the mul-titudo below, the captives of the sixteen dare-devilsabove ; and the closing of the hatches was accom¬panied by an information, that the slightest attemptto alarm the fort or to recapture the ship, would befollowed by an immediate discharge of grape-shotthrough the decks.Here, then, was the Minerva, and her guardsand crew, fairly in the hands of our heroes, butthey had yet much to do before being absolutelysecure of their prize. On looking around them,they discovered that not only were her topmastsstruck, but that all her sails were unbent, and herforeyard lying across the forecastle—her deckbeing, at the same time, “ lumbered up” with goodsintended for disembarkation next morning. Inthis state it was impossible that the vessel couldsail an inch, and there was no time to be lost, foran entire quarter of an hour had elapsed sincethey got on board, and at day-dawn the fortwould at once discover what had happened—sothe Indian was dispatched to the cuddy, where anumber of the defeated seamen had taken refuge,to learn where the sails had been stowed—theywere below, and the rolling of several guns fromthe ship’s side to the middle of the deck, with afew intimations, “upon oath,” that they wereready for the work of destruction, soon induced theSpaniards to hand the sails upon deck. The top¬masts were soon swayed away, also the foreyardand topsail yards. In any other than the mostdesperate circumstances, they would have beenaltogether unequal to the fatigue which, exhaustedas they were by previous labour and want, theysustained in putting the vessel in such trim as toenable her to sail out of the harbour. At lengththe sails were bent, but then there was hardlyenough of wind to make them flap against themasts. It was, in fact, and had been all night, aperfect calm. The situation of the captors became' noro perilous. Should morningfor what defence could they make against a com¬bined attack from the fort and from all the boatsof Arica ? Already voices were heal’d on the shore,and they dreaded that an early visit to the shipwould be the first duty of the custom-house officers.They were in an agony of hope, fear, and anxiety.Daniel in the den of lions was not more awkwardor uncomfortably situated; and yet, what couldthey do ? Why, without wind they could do no¬where they lay, they were lost;thing. To escape to their own drugger appearedutterly impossible, for the lighter sailing boats ofthe Aricans would soon overtake and capture her.At this most critical moment—not half an hourbefore day-break—a slight breeze did spring up,and in an instant their hearts were as much elatedas the instant before they had been cast down.The cables were immediately cut, the sails set, andthe Minerva stood out to sea. The breeze waslight, however, and before she got beyond therange of the fort, the Aricans, to their utter as¬tonishment, for they could not conjecture what hadhappened, as no other vessel was in sight, saw theMinerva bearing briskly down towards Moro-Blanco, a promontory on the south side of the bay,several miles distant from Arica. With the strongmilitary force on board, they could not persuadethemselves that there existed a possibility of herhaving been taken by an enemy. The most natu¬ral conclusion was, that the soldiers themselveshad made a joint speculation of her. The alarmwas immediately given in the fort, and throughoutArica ; and in less than half an hour the harbourand beach were crowded with soldiers and sailorsready to embark in pursuit of the fugitive ship, inthe hope, as the morning advanced, the breezewould die away.The Minerva had just rounded ti e blunt pointof Moro-Blanco, when, as the Aricans had antici¬pated, it became a dead calm, and she once morelay like a log upon the water. Here, then, werethe captors in a situation not much better thanthat from which they had so recently escaped.They were not to be daunted, however, by thisfresh difficulty, but ordering the Spaniards on deckby two at a time, they pinioned them, and shipped14them on hoard the drugger, the ship’s launch, andsmall boats, reserving only one of the smallest fortheir own use. This accomplished, they pointedthe guns towards the boats, ordering the Spaniardson shore, a small number of rowers remainingunbound, and threatening to blow them out of thewater on the slightest indication of a disposition todisobey orders. They now took a snatch of re¬freshment, which to their empty stomachs andexhausted frames was true balm, and hurried toprepare for the attack, which, as a matter of course,was to be expected from Arica. They double-shotted the ship’s guns with grape, and unloosingthose on the starboard side, brought them over tothe larboard, on which side, being that oppositeArica, the attack was naturally to be anticipated.They soon smashed out rude port-holes in thebulwarks, and pointed the cannon.In the meantime, the crew of the Minerva, withthe Spanish soldiers, reached Arica, where theparticulars of the exploit were immediately madeknown. Not a moment was lost in manning theboats that could be collected. Their number wasnot great, it is true, but they were crowded withmen, who, had they been all cannibals, would havemade but a sorry breakfast of the sixteen half-starved hands on board the Minerva. Havinglearnt the precise number of the Minerva’s captors,their*exasperation at the audacity of the adventurewas unbounded ; but for so daring an insult, theypromised themselves the satisfaction of making animmediate return of most ample vengeance. Theywere, in fact, so filled with resentment, and soanxious for revenge, that they neglected to bocautious. In the hurry and heat of the moment,they seemed only to strive which should first reach15the Minerva by the shortest road. To men ofcooler passions and calmer judgment, it wouldprobably have occurred, that the safest, and inother respects the best mode of attack, would havebeen to disperse the boats, and, by surroundingthe vessel, be in a situation to board on all pointsat once. Had this been done, the handful ofEnglishmen must inevitably have been cut topieces. But the Spaniards did not condescend toconsume time in concerting a plan of co-operation.They pulled on, in a body, to devour, as they said,the devoted Englishmen. The Englishmen, how¬ever, were prepared for them. As the fleet of boatsapproached, they coolly took their aim with everygun on board. The boats advancing in a denseextended line, each gun was brought to bear uponparticular parts of them, so that there should be nouseless expenditure of powder and shot. TheMinerva being a deep-waisted vessel, with a top¬gallant forecastle and poop, the boats’ crews didnot discover the preparations that had been madefor their reception—so they pulled on until theywere within pistol-shot of the ship’s side. At thatmoment Mackay, to whom all eyes on board theMinerva were now directed, every thing havingbeen in perfect readiness, gave the signal to “ fire.”A shower of millstones could not have been pro¬ductive of more frightful effects. The momentbefore, the boats were in gallant array, burdenedwith some hundreds of bold hearts, inflamed withrage and revenge—the next, it was as if the bosomof destruction had gone over them. To use ahomely simile, the broadside of heavy grape madea commotion among the boats, similar to thatwhich is produced by an unexpected shot from awell loaded fowling-piece among a flock of ducks16on the bosom of a pond. Instead of one such shot,however, five-and-twenty double shots of grape andcanister were sent by deliberate aim among theboats of Arica, and each shot struck its allottedportion of the line of attack. At the scene whichpresented itself when the smoke cleared away, eventhe drugger’s crew were appalled. The grape hadswept the entire line, carrying death and destruc¬tion before it; and the cannons roar was in an in¬stant succeeded by the loud shrieks of the woundedand drowning. Several boats were sunk, otherswere fast sinking, while those that swam were soonoverloaded by such as had scrambled into them, orhad been picked out of the water ; some of thecraft, indeed, were in this way swamped, andtheir crew suffered to perish, for there existed nomeans of saving them. All around was coveredwith shattered planks, drifting oars, and the stillbuoyant bodies of the killed, while here and therewere seen wounded soldiers, sailors, and citizens,engaged in an ineffectual struggle for life.The surviving boats soon made for Arica, andthe authorities there wisely resolved to make nofarther attempts to disturb the new masters of theMinerva. One of these, the same Tom Martinwhose name has been already mentioned, and fromwhom this narative has been chiefly derived, wasinformed, some years afterwards, that the Miner¬va’s fatal broadside consigned to eternity upwardsof 150 men!Not in the least surprising incident in the for¬tunes of Mackay and his shipmates remains to berelated. After having deliberately put the ship inproper sailing trim, they stood out to sea, in orderto catch the trade-wind, which, at the distance of150 miles from the land, blew at that time from11the north. Having reached this wind, they horedown for Valparaiso, with the view of disposing ofthe ship and cargo, and of dividing their spoil.Off Valparaiso lay a strong Spanish fleet, blockadingthe port; but of this circumstance our adventurerswere not aware, neither did they entertain theslighest suspicion that an obstacle of so formidablea nature was at all likely to oppose itself to thecompletion of an adventure already nearly crownedwith success. At nightfall, previous to the morn¬ing when they expected to reach Valparaiso, theywere not sufficiently near that city to distinguishthe fleet that lay in the offing ; so the wind beingfavourable, they skimmed over the waves withhearts bounding in the pride of being the undis¬puted masters of so gallant a ship and all she con¬tained, little dreading the danger into which theywere about to fall. On they went, however, and adense fog coming on at day dawn, they sailedthrough the very thickest of the Spanish fleet, notonly without either seeing or being seen by a singleship, but without even suffering that annoyancewhich is produced by a consciousness of being in asituation of extreme danger, and, before the fogcleared away, they lay safely moored below thefort of Valparaiso—so true does it seem to be that“ fortune favours the brave !”On the morning, they received the congratula¬tions of the governor of the city, by whom theMinerva was declared a lawful prize, and all Val¬paraiso resounded with the praises of her captorsheroism.The vessel and her cargo turned out a prize ofgreat value, and the English tars soon found them¬selves in the possession of what appeared to theminexhaustible riches. They would not have beentrue British seamen, however, had they hoardedup their wealth. No less characteristic of theirprofession, was the reckless intrepidity which oneand all of them had displayed, than was the pro¬fusion of their expenditure after getting fairly onshore. Each got his riding horse, and his sweet¬heart, of course. They gave balls, grand thea¬trical parties, and all sorts of sumptuous enter¬tainment ; and when they met, as they often did,it was quite a common thing with them to tossup for a score of dollars, or play “evens or odds”for a handful or a pocketful at a time. In afew years afterwards, so elfectual had been theexertions of some of them to get rid of their money,that they again found themselves before the mastin Lord Cochrane’s fleet; while others more pro¬vident, established themselves as respectable andsubstantial citizens. Mackay became one of themost considerable of the merchants and shipownersin Valparaiso, where, for aught that is known tothe contrary, he still lives in the enjoyment of hiswealth.TOOTHACHE.*“ When fevers burn, and agues freeze us,Rheumatics gnaw, and cholics squeeze us,Our neebors sympathise to ease us,Wi’ pitying moan—But thou, the hell o’ a’ diseases,They mock our moan.”Burns.The toothache is rendered more distressing, if notmore acute, by there being no commiseration forthe wretchedness it occasions. The belief in thisand a keen recollection of bodily and mental suf¬ferings, have produced the following little narra-rative:—Some years ago, a tremendous tooth, with threeenormous prongs, confined me to my room, andirritated me to a state little short of distraction.With my head tied up in a bandana handkerchief,both hands on my afflicted jaw, I sat swaying mybody to and fro, as if endeavouring to calm a frac¬tious infant; at other times 1 stamped about likea lunactic, or plunged on my bed like a frog swim-inu. Being at length reduced to a state of exhaus-tion, I was anxious to retreat from all intercoursewith the world; yet knock after knock at the doorcontinued, as if only to increase my already exces¬sive nervous irritability. Many of the persons Ihad no desire to see, but some were those inter¬woven with my professional pursuits, and 1 wascompelled to be at home. I had to account for mydisconsolate appearance—to describe my torment¬ing pangs, till I was weary of speaking upon thesubject. To all my fervid descriptions, I receivedthe cold remark, and the chilling advice, that itwas only the toothache, and that I had better haveit extracted. All this time, the salivary glands,were pouring their fluids into my mouth, the gas¬tric juices were wasting their powers, and I was ina paroxysm of excruciating anguish. It was aston¬ishing how persons could calmly behold such acomplication of miseries. Nothing could bo eaten ;slops became offensive ; the sight of a spoon fright¬ful ; and a basin revolting as a perpetual blister.Even the air could not be taken!—it was too muchfor the petulance of my capricious tooth. On itJOraged, as if torments were its delight. In all myreading, I never met with any author hut Burnswho had a proper idea of the toothache. Hewished his enemies to have it for a twelvemonth.Oh dear! He must be more or less than a manwho could endure this. He must despair andperish.How true it is, that out of evil often some goodwill spring ; for while I was enduring this thumb¬screw on my gums—this gout in my jaw—thisrack of my nerve—this destroyer of brains—amidthis desolation I acquired much useful informationrespecting the toothache. One friend informedme that half the suffering was occasioned bynervous irritability; for, if I went to a dentistwith a determination to have the tooth extracted,the moment I entered the door the tooth wouldcease to give me pain. He had proved it morethan once.Another friend smiled at my deplorable situation,and laughed at my desire to retain in my mouthsuch a thing, that had ceased to be a tooth ; it wasa mere stump, with a carious fang; worse thanuseless; it was positively injurious. If the casewere his, he should give such a tenant immediatenotice to quit. With a pair of pincers he wouldserve the ejectment himself, as an empty housewas preferable to a bad tenant.Another friend requested me to be careful inselecting an operator on my tooth, for that he wentto a dentist once, under anguish scarcely endu¬rable, to have a large double tooth like mine ex¬tracted. He seated himself in a chair, and wastold to hold fast by the frame-work of the seat, toprevent being hoisted up by the lever-power in thehands of the operator. All was properly arranged.21the instrument in, and a tooth drawn ; but unfor¬tunately, the fellow had taken the wrong tooth out,being the only one left to meet another in theopposite jaw, to enable my friend to masticate hisfood. Bad as this was, he found it must be endured,because the tooth could not be replaced, and be¬cause a portion of the jaw-bone had been torn awaywith the tooth. Miserable situation! The painredoubled its violence, and he resolved to have thetormenting fang extracted. To prevent beingtossed against the ceiling, he fixed his feet inleather straps attached to the floor, and held firmlyby the chair. In this determined state, he madea round 0 of his mouth ; the operator popped inthe instrument, and u-g-h!—a-h !—it slipped.He felt as if a loaded waggon had passed over hishead. The Dentist apologised, saying, “ It was acommon occurrence ; gentlemen did not mind itmuch, because the next attempt was always suc¬cessful.” This my friend was obliged to receiveas a consolation, though deficient in every satisfac¬tory particular. Down he sat; made anotherround 0 ; in went the instrument. Oh !—ough !—gh! His head seemed separated from his body,but only part of the tooth with one fang was ex¬tracted. Again the dentist begged pardon; “hopedlie should be excused, as every one must have abeginning, in whatever profession. He wouldfetch his master, who would punch out the remain¬ing fangs in less than a quarter of an hour!”This idea was too much. The gentleman sick¬ened at the idea, and left the shop in a worse statethan when he entered, resolving never to entrusthis head in the hands of a beginner again.This was a frightful relation of accumulatedhorrors to me, for, as 1 had no expectation of relief22from agony, but by the skill of a dentist, I shud¬dered lest I should be subjected to similar treat¬ment. My poor servant-girl Betty, who heardthe description of this bungling operation, screamedin sympathetic recollection of what she once hadsuffered under the hands of a dentist. She beggedof me, “ for goodness sake, to give up the notion ofgoing to have my tooth hauled out in that fashion,for she could assure me it was quite unspeakablefor to tell the pain that must be endured. Itwas the most horrid scraunch that ever was in thismortal world. Nobody could tell if their headwas off or on, and it wa’nt a right way for totreat any human Christian.” I listened to poorBetty, because I began to think there was oneperson who could appreciate my sufferings. Ihoped to escape from farther interruption by being-denied, but Betty told me a, gentleman had beenwaiting some time in the parlour, who said hewould not detain me half a minute. Ho came—afriend I had not seen for many years. He sympa¬thised with me, while I briefly told how sadly Iwas afflicted.“ My dear friend,” exclaimed he, “ I can cureyou in ten minutes.”“ How ? How ?” enquired I “ do it in pity.”“Instantly,” said he. “Betty, have you anyalum.”“ Yes.”tiring it, and some common salt.”They were produced ; my friend pulverizedthem, mixed them in equal quantities ; then weta small piece of cotton, causing the mixed powdersto adhere, and placed it in my hollow tooth.“ There,” said he ; “ if that do not cure you, 1will forfeit my head. You may tell this in Gath,23,i and publish it in the streets of Aschalon; the< remedy is infallible.”It was as he predicted. On the introduction of| the mixed alum and salt, I experienced a sensationof coldness, which gradually subsided, and with itthe torment of the toothache.Though 1 thus learnt something from my suf-jj ferings, and entertain a hope that what I learnt,n1 being thus published, will be of service to my fel-f low-creatures, I am far from believing that anyI catholicon or universal remedy has yet been dis-j| covered for this afflicting malady. It would almostI appear, indeed, that, instead of there being anyI general cure for the toothache, every body would|j require to have his own cure ; for though certainpreparations have been found effectual in certain:| cases, nothing is so common as to find these failfi when applied to others. Probably there is one«1 particular cure for every man on earth, if he onlyI could discover what it is. Till that be done, I ami afraid that the disease must be looked upon as a1 pin loose in nature, and just endured, when afj remedy cannot be hit upon, as an unavoidablea evil,24A flJ E G D 0T E S.Englishman and highlandman.An English vessel passing up the Clyde, fell inwith a Highland Sloop coming down, which thecaptain of the former hailed with the usual saluta¬tion of “ Sloop ahoy!” when the following conver¬sation took place:—Captain. What’s your cargo ?Highlander. Penlomon.Cap. Where are you bound for ?High, Potatoes.Cap. What’s your Captain’s name ?High. Proomala.Cap. Where do you come from ?High. Yes ; it’s a fine poat.Cap. Will you take us on board ?High. Yesterday.THE RED NOSE.A West Indian, who had a remarkably fierynose, having fallen asleep in his chair, a negro boywho was in waiting, observed a musquitto hoveringround his face. Quashee eyed the insect veryattentively, at last lie saw him alight on his mas¬ter’s nose, and immediately fly off. ‘ All! d-—nyour heart, ’ exclaimed the negro, ‘ me d—n gladto see you burn your foot.’FINIS.