THEFrench Convert-Being a true Relation of theHAPPY CONVERSIONO F ANoble French Lady,From the Errors and S'.oerftions of Poperv*to the reformed Religion, by means of aProtedant Gardener, her Servant.WHEREIN IS SHEWN,!Her great and unparalleled Sufferings, on the Ac*count of her faid Converfion : As alfo, Her won>i derful Deliverance from two Affaffins hired by aPopifh Prieft to murder her: And, Of her mira-■ -culous Prefervation in a Wood for two Years;and how fhe was at laft providentially found byher Kufbap.d; who, together with her Parentsi and many Others, were brought over to the em-1 bracing of the true Religion.TO WHICH IS ADDED,A brief Account of the prefent fevere Perfecutionsof the French Proteftants.GLASGOW,Printed by J. & M. Robertfon, (No. 20.)Saltnsarket, 1808.OF SCOTLAND rJ( 3 )The Copy of a Letter fait from a Trench Pro-teflant Minifler in FRANCE, to his Friend inLondon, with the following Relation.• My very good Friend,HAVING received yours the 13th of A-pril, N. S. I was not a little overjoyed,even in my fufferings, to hear you are well lettledin a country, where you have the freedom of en¬joying the exercife of the true religion, a thingto be valued above all other earthly bleffings •,and not only that, but I am much more glad tofind you inform me, that the climate io well a-grees with you and your family, that you havebeen healthful ever fince you departed from meand the reft of your dear friends here; thoughmany of us, and particularly myfelf, labour un¬der many fufterings and affli&ions ; I having(with many others) languifhed a long time inprifon, for the fake of a good confcience, afflift-ed with much ficknefs, by reafon of my clofeconfinement, which (bkft'ed be the name of Godfor enabling me) I have borne with patience; tho’many have died unpitied of their cruel perfecu-tors, yet the cry of innocent blood may in timemake them cry, * How hard is it to kick ngainfl:tithe pricks:’ yet my prayers arc, that infiead oftfending any fearful judgement on thefe Popilhlad verfaries, God would turn their hearts, en¬lighten their underftandings, make them fee theerrors of their ways, and repent of the many e-vils they have done to the poor Proteliants,twithout any manner of caufe or provocation, toiwhom their rage and malice extend even beyond:death ; for they Hill continue their old way ofdenying them a Chriftian burial. But this is allA 2 our( 4 ^©ur comfort, it matters not where our bodies liejif fo be-our fouls are enfolded in Chrift’s arms^et among the mifenes and threats of cieathswhich 1 have undergone in taking care of thefpiritual welfare of thofe whom God has commit^ted to my charge, I cannot but be greatly com¬forted when you tell me the French Prottftanlchurch in England llouriihes; and that the mem¬bers of it £ walk worthy of their calling,’ gain¬ing by their inoffenfive way of living, a goodrepute among ft rangers ; when in their nativecountry fo much inhumanity appears towardsthole of the reformed proftfiion; for the perje-cution in many places rages ftill by their impo-,verifiling of thoufands of families, But not to betedmus to you, having nothing left to fend youbut my good willies and prayers, except the en-tlofed account of a very ftrange, butblefi’ed alter¬ation in t!ie family of the Count Alanfon, aworthynobleman very well known to you. I havedrawn it up upon the ftri&elt enquiry into thetruth of all the material circumftances, as well asrny fiifferings, and fpare time, that the careof thofe under my,charge would permit; andfend it to you a-s a token of my love, for themany kindneffes I have received at your hands :that fo you might communicate it to others, andmake it public if you fee occafion : that all maybe made fenfible of the wonderful goodnefs ofAlmighty God, and praife him for the works hedoth unto the children of men. For the certain¬ty of what I have written, though 1 have heeniobliged for method’s-fake to ufe a few’ exprefliensof my oum, you may firmly rely on my integri¬ty, who am always a wcll-wiftier to the healthof your foul and body. A> D’AUBqRN.THEFRENCH CONVERT.IN writing of the following relation, whereininjured innocence and opprefled virtue doesfo eminently triumph over all the rage and ma«ilice, both of men and devils, 1 fiiall not ftudy toadorn my flyle tyith flowers of rhetoric, but leadthee by the clue of truth into the adorable my-Heries of Divine Providence, which are here dif~played in fuch a feries of wonders as can fcarcebe paralleled. As an introdu&ion to which, Iwill a little confider how the divine goodnefs de¬lights to bring light out of darknefs, and makeseven the wicked confound themfelves in their' own devices, that out of their evil defigns he■Itrtay bring good to pafs. For, as Jofeph’s being•fold into Egypt, and there falfely accufed of a-• dultcry, advanced him next to a throne, andt turned to the lhame of his accuflng miftrefs,rand treacherous brethren; (though at the begin-tining, God meant it for good) that he might be! inflrumental to preferve his father and his houfe-hold alive, and turned the malice of the Patri¬archs into ableffing; fo the miferies and extra-• ordinary fufferings of the noble lady whofe flory. I am going to recite, were made ufe of by di-1 vine Providence, as a mean of the converfion of-her hufband, parents and many others, to theMrue religion ; Which, as fhe has often fince faid,,tthas been a very ample and glorious recompence.But I lhall not anticipate what with more fatis-A 3 fee-6 THE FRENCH CONVERT.faiRion you will find in the relation itfelf; whichtake as follows.In Britany, one of the finedFrance, there lately lived Count Aianfon, aperfon of noble extra&ion, and of an edate fuSt¬able to the greatnefs of his birth, and tlmfe no¬ble qualities that enricl^d his mind. Who, be¬ing a lover of military aftions, was eafily per-fuaded to ferve the king in the wars, wherehaving an eminent command given him, he-be¬haved himfe-lf with a bravery that gained himthe admiration of his enemies, the love of hisfriends, and freth honours of his king, whotook particular notice of his great performances.But in the intervals of two or three campaigns,he call his eyes upon one Deidamia, a young ladyof qulity not inferior to himfelf in birth, whofebeauty and virtue W'ere equally attra&ive : toher he made his addrefies. and the equality oftheir birth, and the fuitablenefs of their difpofi-tions, made his conqued the more eafy; fo thatin a little time they were contracted and marri¬ed, to their mutual joy and fatisfadlion.This happy couple, having for a whole winterenjoyed the bleding of each others mutual loveand endearing affedlions, without the lead um¬brage of any enterpofing cloud that might giveany allay to their happineis; at length the ipringcame' on, and the armies gathering together,fummoned Aianfon from the repofe he took inthe foft embraces of his chade and loving wife, |*o the field of war, to aft his part again uponthat dage of honour, where he had already ac¬quired fo much reputation. But he never feem-ed f. unwilling to court fame abroad, as now ’fince lie mud of neceffity leave behind him thedeareftiprovincesTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 7j deareft part of himfelf; he had iTiany llrugglings! and covrfTjats in his mind, which feemed to bedivided between love and honou; ; he tvas lothi to leave his lady, and yet unwilling to have hisreputation fullied: and thefe different paffions inithe mind carffed fuch an alteration in his coun¬tenance, that it was taken notice of by his lady,who not knowing the caufe, was the more trou¬bled at it; and therefore, following him one dayinto the garden, whether he had retired to con-fider with himfelf what he had bed to do, fhe,earneftly prefled him to let her know what itr was that troubled him ; for flie had for feme. time, {he faid, obferved he was difquieud, butcould not tell at what; and fire was fearful Are:p might, though (he knew it not, be the occalioniof it; adding, command me in any thing a wifecan juflly do, and I am ail obedience. This ten¬der carriage of his lady added freih fuel to theI; fire of his affliflions, and made him flill far moreunwilling to leave her. Wherefore caufing herto fit down by him, he told her. She was in-:i deed the innocent occafion of his trouble: forher <rreat love and teudernefs to him had fo en-; gaged J^is heart to her in a reciprocal aft'edtion,i that hq. knew not horv to think of leaving her,though honour called him loudly to the field.1 His lady, when he talked of leaving her, wasc hardly kept from fwooning iir his arms, and! could not forbear faying, What ! mull we partthen? Ah, wretched Deidamial and flraightwayfhe fell a w’eeping: her tears did fo prevail uponj the Count, that love had now obtained an entireviftory, and he rel'olved to flay at home withD damia; and therefore entreated her to dryup her tears, and be comforted: for he hadnow come to a refolution, rather to undergo, fome8 THE FRENCH CONVERT.fome hard cenfrres for flaying at home, than bygoing to the camp to leave his clear Iltidamiadifconfolate.—Thefe kind affiirances of her huf-band gave her that fatisfa£lion which loon fhew-ed itfelf in a chearful countenance j and the en¬dearing expreffions flie gave <116 Count on thatoccafion, made h’m conclude they were bothhappy in each other’s love.But behold the inconftancy of worldly happi-nefs, and how little we can promife ourfclves ofit here ! we may indeed, both purpofe and re-folve, but we cannot fecure ourfelves from dif-appointments: thefootdepsofDivineProvider.ee Iare often hard to trace. Hence it is that weare told by the infpired penman, ‘ That theways of God are in the deep, and his paths inthe great waters, and his footfleps are notknown.’ And we fee -often, whatever pleafingprofpe£t of felicity we have in view, fome un-forfeen occafion, or fudden turn of pro\"Tdence,dedroys it, and in a moment deprives us of thathappinefs which vve had promifed to ourfelvesfor many years : and yet thefe changes, to thofethat fear the Lord, are fo difpofed and orderedby God’s providence, that in the end, they evi¬dently work together for their good. And thusit fell out in the indance before us; for whililAlanfon and his Dcidamia, delighted in each o-ther, and were both happy in their conjugal af¬fection, an accident fell out, that put him undera neceffity of going to the camp, which was, thata colonel’s place in the regiment of Picardy beingvacant, a relation of Alanfon’s, at court, outof a too officious kindnefs, put the king in mindof the good fervices of Alanfon, and defired hisMajefty to bellow that vacancy upon him : towhich his Majelty (being fenfible of his formerbra-THE FRENCH CONVERT. 9« bravery and good fervice) readily c< nfented, andi ordered his conamifficn to be lent to him; whichwas done accordingly- When: Alanfcn receivedthis commifficn from the purfuivant who brought: it, he gave him a generous reward for his pains;but was not very well pleafed, either with the; new honour his Majcfly had given him, nor' with his kinfman’s too officious kmdneis in pio-curing it: btcaufe it put him under a neceflity1 of parting from his lady, which gave him a ve-: ry fenfible bifpleafure : but knowing that by his1 commiffion he wras engaged too far for a retreat,i his care was how to make h's Deidamia as eafy1; as he could : and therefore, calling her to take a!turn with him in the garden, and leading herinto an arbour covered with a jeffamine, be thusbegan to tell her the unwelcome news that had!l! been brought him. My dearefl Deidamia let::: me conjure you not to be troubled at'what I amrow going to tell you, but if }rou will obligeme, do it by ffiewiug your refolution and forti¬tude of mind ; and yet, I cannot but own, that1 our refolves, like little heaps of fand, are quick-; ly brought to nothing; but the decrees of Hea-' ven, like the foundations of the earth, are fix¬ed for ever. It was in this very arbour, mydeareft Deidamia, that I rcfolved to flay at hemewith thee, and not return to the campa’gn inHanders ; and I appeal to him who knows myheart, how firmly I intended; but fee here, how81 am forced againft my will to break my refolu-tion ; (and with that ihtwed her the commillionI the king had font him to be colonel of the regi¬ment of Picardy) and now you fee, my Deida-mia, the neceflity that lies upon me to leave youfor a time; but though our bodies be divided,we will have one foul and love, whilfl Provi¬dence10THE FRENCH CONVERT.dence denies us to live together. And whilftI in the field am figiiting for my country: youfhall flay hare and pray for my fuccefs: and ifit pleafes God that I return, (which I do notdoubt at all, for Heaven I am fure will hearyour fervent prayer) it will be a new additionto my joy, to lay thofe laurels I {hall win inbattle, at Deidamia’s feet. Poor Deidamia heardthefe heavy news with a fad heart, but anfweredwith piety and prudence worthy of herfelf, thatItnce what happened was not of his feeking, butwhat the providence of God had called him to,fhe thought it was her duty (though {he couldhardly do it without relutdance) to acquiefce inthe divine difpofal of human aftions, and wouldendeavour to {title her refentments, rather thangive him any farther trouble. Alanfon beingno lefs pleafed with Deidamia’s prudence thanher kind affl&ion, which he espreded by feve-ral tender things he told her, applied himfelf tothe getting ready of his equipage, in order tohis departure; and then fettling the affairs ofhis family, ordered Antonio his chaplain, whowas a Friar of the order of St. Francis, to fay afolemn mats for his fuccefs in the field, and theprotection of his lady and family in his abfence,recommending his deareft Deidamia to the careof Antonio his chaplain, and Fronovius his fiew-ard to his houfehold, in thefe words: To yourcare, in my abfence, I recommend the lafety andwelfare of my beloved lady, the moft virtuousand loving of wives: and charge you, as you ex¬pect to anfwer it to God and me, be obedient toall her commands; comfort and cherilh her in herfolitude, and lee that all my domeftics pay the likeexaCt refpeCts. This and much more, they faith¬fully promifed to obferve. Then giving liberally. toITHE FRENCH CONVERT. nto each fervant, and having notice that his equi¬page was ready, and divers gentlemen on horfe-back waiting to accompany him, he took his lo-lemn leave of his dear Deidamia, whofe fad pre-faging heart was overcome with grief to that de¬gree, that (he could only fneak thefe few prophe¬tic words : Ah, my dear lord, may Heaven pre¬vent my fears ! But my poor heart forebodes thatthis will be a long and fatal parting. To whichthe Count replied. Do not call down thyfelf, dearDeidamia, by the indulging of fuch melancholyfancies; but allure yourfelf, I will halten my re¬turn as much as pcffible, and I will fend to you asoften as I can. And in the mean time, lha!l com¬mit you to the proteddion of the Almighty, theblelTed virgin-mother, and all the holy faints andangels; and fealing his afte&’on on her lips withgentle killes, he took his leave of her, and rodeaway, not thinking he had left an innocent doveto the proteftion of two ravenous vultures.It is not much to my purpofe to tell you, howwell he was received at the head, of his com¬mand by the Duke of Luxemburgh, or whatbrave exploits his courage carried him through,fince neither fame, i or the public news fiomPaiis, have been wanting to fpeak his commen¬dation : I therefore ommit it, (unlefs in femepafiages, where it will, in the thread of this a-mazing relation, be neceflary to mention, fomeparticulars) and (hall continue with the forrow-ful Deidamia, who after his departure teemed tohave banilhed all comfort from he? bread; and allthat Are found was in her devotions and prayersto Almighty God, for his protection and fafereturn, greatly afFefling foliiude; and as muchas (he could, avoiding the vifits of divers ladies,who (as they faid) came to make her merry,andi2 THE FRENCH CONVERT.and divert her melancholy, fhe being very wellbeloved, both by the nobility and gentry, forher comely carriage, modeft behaviour, fweet-nefs of temper, and affability.In the .cool of the day Ore ufually made it herbufineft, to retire into her garden penfive andalone, it being, by the care and diligence of thegardener, k-pt and ordered like another paradife,ftored with great variety of choice plants andflowers, adorned with pleafant fountains, and fe-veral delightful arbours, {haded over with inter¬twining jeffamine, in which Ihe and her abfeatLord had paffed fomc joyful as well as fad hours,and at the remembrance of them would fadlyweep, then pray (according to the cuftom of thePapifts, who allow praying to faints) to the tu¬telary ft nts for his proteclion: and fo drying upher tears, would walk thence again, taking butlittle reft in any place: but one time pafiiog bya b°d of tulips, (he efpied Bernard her gardener(for fo he was called') bufy in watering them, andere fling fuch as declined their drooping heads,occafioned by the heat of the fun’s too fcorchingbeams; (he had often in this man obferved aharmlefs native innocency, accompanied with a-cute ingenuity; (and indeed a gardener who un-derftands his bufmefs as he ought to do, mull bean ingenious man) and therefore imagined, itmight adminifter to her fome advantage, to holddifeourfe with him in what related to the mylle-ries of gardening, thinking it no undervaluing,though he was her menial fervant, fince fhe hadoften read. That ‘ kings, princes, and othergreat and wife men had voluntarily become ofthis occupation; that Adam, when governor ofall the worid, was employed in it by God him-fdffo that coming clofe to him, whilft hishandsTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 13hands were bufied at his work ; the man by hisear, (his back being towards her) being inform¬ed of fomebody’s approach, fuddenly ftarted up,and, feeing his beautiful lady near him, was alittle furprifed, and would have retired, to giveher the more freedom in her walks, but Ihe pre¬vented him by faying, ‘ Bernard, pray do hotlet me hinder you in your bufinefs ; I come onpurpofe to obferve your dexterity in gardening;1 fee you mind it with a juft diligence thoughijour Lord is abfent.’ ‘ Madam,’ (replied he,)‘ I beg your Ladyrtiip’s pardon, in that 1 telljyou, 1 am no eye-fervant, as well knowing, Iiinult give an account to God, as well as toman, if I am negligent in what I promife to per¬form, and.am intruded with.’ Deidamia ftcoftfurprifed at the man’s plain, but ingenuous re¬ply; and changing fomewhat the manner of herd'fcourfe, alked him divers queftions about thevirtues, natures, qualities, and produiftions of'(flowers and plants. Sec. ; in all which-he fatisfiedither to her admiration; by which, fhe perceivedhim better learned in the myfteries of nature, thaniftie expected from one of his profeffion. And tobe brief, Ihe often held inch innocent converfs-tion with him. when at any time Ihe found himibufy in the garden, being much delighted to hearihim difeourfe, how much of the wifdcm and good-iinefs of God might be learned from the works ofcreation ; for he had a particular faculty of fpi-1 ritualizing his employment, and making his bu-jiinefs ferve like Jacob’s ladder, to carry him fromdearth to heaven. Which fometimes caufed her toIrefleft. that this man was fomething more thanbe appeared to be, (in which indeed Ihe was not(much miftaken) fo that entertaining a good opi-jnicn of him, ihe ordered his lodging to beB changed14 THE FRENCH CONVERT.changed for a better; and his coarfe and homelycommons to be enlarged, above what was ufual Jto thofe of his profeflion and degree.Eitt now Antonio the chaplain, however he hadappeared like a faint to his mailer, began to fhewhimfelf a devil to bis mi(lrefs, and too plainlyfcived his cloven foot; for though above fiftyyears of age, he had for fome time, harboured lull-ful defires towards the fair and beautiful Deida-mia, that he was now refolved to attempt her chaf-tUy. And though her virtue and fpotlefs chafti-Jty might very well have kept him from purfuinghis unclean defires, yet he flattered himfelf withhopes of obtaining his end, by corrupting the ijudgement: in which he found himfelf very muchmiftaken, as the fequel will declare. For the Di¬vine Goodnefs Jiad a farther work to do for Dei-damia; avlio being altogether ignorant of whatthis wretch defigned againfl hei honour, fre¬quented her beloved garden as file ufed to doand cne evening heat ing the gardener reading ina lonely arbour, where he thought himfelf fecure (for lie had induflrioufly concealed his being a I’rc tcllant from any of the family) her cu-riofity to hear him, made her draw nigh fo foft-3y, that he could not hear her: he w'as then read'ing the firft chapter of the epiftle to the Romansfrom the aoth to the end of the 23d verfe, viz‘ For the vifible things of him from the creationof the world are clearly fecn, being underfloodby the things that are made, even his eternalpower and Godhead; fo that they are withoutexcufe, became that when they knew God tliejglorified him not as God, neither were thankfulbut became vaii in their imaginations, and thenfoolilh hearts were darkened ; profefling them-1felves to be wife they became fools, and changecTHE FRENCH CONVERT.*5the glory of the incorruptible God, into an i-niage made like to corruptible man, and to birds,and four-footed beads, and creeping things.’Having thus far proceeded, be paufed, and withbis eyes lifted up to heaven, gave glory unto God,who had preferved him blamelefs from thefe of¬fences again!! his Divine Majefly, which thro’ ig¬norance and fuperftition had overfpread the great¬er part of Europe. ‘ O Lord,’ continued he, ‘ Ihumbly befeech thee, as I have already fufi'eredjjrrfecution for thy name’s fake, and for tire fakeof a good confcience, fo never let me departfrom the wavs of thy truth, to change thy incor¬ruptible glory into an image made like corrupti¬ble man:’ And when he had ibid this, tears floodin hts eyes, and his words were fucceedtd by lighs.Deidamia, who had all this while attentivelyliftened, found fomething in her mind that madea fudden uneafy alteration, and thought to havegone away undifeovertd; but then again, herzeal for the Romiib religion, which fhe thoughthe had reproached by detailing image-worikip,carried her fo far, that fhe refolved to give hima fharp reprimand, left he perfifting further, un¬til difeovered by others, might ruin himfelf;though her goodnefs and gentle nature was notfor working him any injury by revealing it.But never was man more iurprii'cd, than Bernardwhen he faw her, whom at that time of the day,he little fufpedted, as not being ufual; yet col¬lecting his fcattered fenfes, he arofe from hisfeat, and withal endeavoured to hide his Bibleunder bis coat, thinking fhe had been newlycome, and might neither have heard him read,nor feen his Bible; but fhe, in a frowning man¬ner, contrary to the wonted fweetnefs of hertemper, commanded him to deliver it to her,B 2 that16 THE FRENCH CONVERT.that the flames might conceal his fault; and toldhim, fhe would not for that time, difcover hisbeing converfant with a book fo ftriffly by thechurob, prohibited to the laity; for (continuedfhe) it is enough that we believe as the churchbelieves, without farther difpute, or puzzlingourfelves with thofe fcruples and niceties whichin all probability, we may make a falfe conftruc-tion of, and wreft even thofe fcriptures, that arethe rule of our faith, to our own damnation.This ftnart difcourfe, and the frowns in thefair Deidamia’s countenance, did not in this cafefo much d’aunt Bernard as in another of lefs con¬cern it might have done ; hut with feme afftir-sace, he replied, ‘ Ah, Madam ! I little thoughtcf being farprifed by you at my devotion, butfiricc I am, I cannot grant what you demand ;rather yon may command my body to the tlavnes,and as a willing martyr I will fooner go than be¬tray the caufe of God, in delivering up his ho¬ly word to be confumed, in which are containedall things neceHary to falyation: and it would bein me an apparent contempt of that falvation,fhould I voluntarily, or thro’ fear, cafi it fromrue. As to your faying, madam, that the churchhas prohibited the laity the ufe cf this facredbook, efpecial’y in a known tongue, I readilygrant it; but, O moil virtuous lady, you littleknow their policy in that; it is not that they fearor care what milconftruCcions men make of it;but becaufe it is like arrows in the hand of a gi¬ant, ftrong againft the;r worldly interefl, plainlydifcover’.'rg their errors and grofs idolatries.’—He would have proceeded, but the heat of zealprompted her halfily to interrupt him, faying,furely Bernard, you are diHradled, or elfe, whatis worfe, a heritic: I took you to be wifer, andmoreTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 171 more reafonable, when I difcourfed with youthe other day. ‘ Truly madam,’ replied he, ‘ asij for my being in my right fenfes, I blefs Almigh-; ty God, he has in his mercy hitherto continued: them to me ; and for my being a heretic, par¬don me, if St. Paul anfwers for me, when he was1 accufed before Felix, faying, ‘ But this I confefs: unto thee, after the way which they call herefy,fo worfnip I the God of my fathers, believing all1 things which are written in the law and the pro¬phets.’ Upon this, Deidamia, who by naturei was all goodnefs, gentlenefs, and affablenefs, be¬gan to moderate her anger, and to confider a lit-■| tie what he had faid, yet her zeal for the religion!: fhe profeffed made her mildly rebuke him, and; lay before him the danger he was in, if his opi-| nion was diicovered; bidding him be cautiousr and wife in what he did; tho’, for her part, heit need not fear, but Hie would lock up what fhe• i| had difeovered, in her bread, and it ihould pals>i no farther; and to departing, left him in fometij confufion.Deidamia, retiring to her chamber, began toI confider what had palled, and remembered fhehad often wept in her tender years, when flieheard the cruelties the Roman Catholics ufed> towards the Hngonots or Proteftants in France;and difapproving of their perfecuting fpirit, asnot of God, whofe chief attributes are mercy,tender companion, and forgivenefs; when, on. the contrar}', ilie found thofe who made religion; fo math their hoaft, fo very cruel, that, far• from the inftance of our Saviour’s refufmg toI call for fire from heaven, to coufume thofe thathad injurioufly and defpitefully ufed him, tlieymade their very worfnip and devotions a fnare,to bring thofe under tlieir cruel handlings, whoB 3 had118 THE FRENCH CONVERT.had in no wife offended them, bnt in being fepa-a'ated from them, and moving according to thedidlates of their ccnfcience. She had iiktwifeobferved the harmleffhcfs and inoffenfive mannerof living in the perfecuted, and often {hewedfome diliike of the loofenefs and unchriftian prac¬tices of the perfecntors; fo that, altho’ fhe hada good opinion of the Romifh religion, as hav¬ing been brought up in it from her infancy, yethad flic not fo of many of the profeffbrs of it,who apparently derogated from the ways of vir¬tue, and feemed to encourage vice.This wrought fome labourings in her mind,through the gracious operation of the Holy Spi¬rit; and in her night thoughts more ferioufly re.fiedling on many things, and particularly on,theGardener’s expreffion out of St. Paul’s words toFehx the governor; inferring from thence, Thatit muff, be the fincerity of the heart towards God,more than the {hew, or outward name, or pro-feffion of any religion, that renders the perfonacceptable in his fight. In the midff of thefecogitations and debates within herfelf, fhe foundfomething (as it were by arr over*ruling power)ilrongly moved her to a defire of farther converf-ing with Bernard, about the fundamentals of hisreligion; which, by the Popifn Prieffs, as well intheir pulpits, as private converfaticn, had been re-prefented fo odious, damnable, and to be detefted.The rooming no fooner fummoned the Gar-* dener to vifit his flowers and plants, and per¬form his ufual talk m watering and orderingthem, but Deidamia, who.had taken little reftthat night, arofe, and having performed her o-xifon, and then refrefhed herfelf with a moder-•ate collation, took an opportunity between thatand dinner-time to enter the garden privately,atTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 19; at a door that opened into it from her apait-I ment; and to ikreen the better what itie intend¬ed, from prjdng eyes, took divers turns, andgathered pofies of flowers; then fanning l^er-felf, as if the heat offended her, and paffing ma¬ny winding alleys, overfpread with pleafantfliades, (he came to the beforementioned arbour,i and again furprifed the Gardener in his medi¬tations : the man was not under any confterna-; ticn at her coming, but rifing and bowing low,i would have departed, out of good manners, to| give her the foie freedom of that plcafant bower:but flae laid her commands on him to flay, fay¬ing, Hie had confidered of his former dilcourfe,II and had made it her bufmefs to find him out,.j;i that he might give her fome better reafon for!:; the opinion he held, than yet he had done.*Mis modefty and the humble thoughts heb conceived of himfelf, would fcarce give himri leave to fit down, though fire often commandedl him fo to do; but at laft he complied, and thenfire alked him, upon what ground and founda-ji tion the bafis of his religion was fixed ?Gardener. It is founded on the fcriptures ofl the Old and New Tefiaments, which were writ-I ten by men infpired by the Holy Ghoft, and’1 given for our infiruftion and learning ; it is on-' ly the word of God that can warrant the truthof any profeffion in Religious matters ; and thatwe Proteftants (through God’s affifiance) labouri to conform and live up to.Deidanria. Ay, but you may be raiflaken injj the mifinterpreting the feripture, and fail intogrofs herefies, as our church charges you ; andtherefore has ftrnftly forbid the laity of ourcommunion to meddle With them, left, liksweapons put into the hands of idoits, or mad¬men,20 THE FRENCH CONVERT.men, they injure themfelves and others thereby.Gar. Ah ! lady, fhall I be free, and dealplainly with you in this point?Deid. With all my heart; let me hear whatyou ean fay in anfwer to it.Gard. All fcriptures are given for our learn¬ing. God is willing we iliould know his reveal¬ed will, that we may be the better enabled toperform it. St. Paul commends the iJereans,and calls them noble, becaufe they fearched thefcriptures, to fee whether the things they heardwere fo or not; and we have many commandsfor this; as, Ifa. xxxiv. 16. 4 Seek ye out of thebook of the Lord and read.’ A<Sts xvii. It.* They were more noble, in that they fearched thefcriptures daily.’ Col. iii. 16. ‘ Let the wordof Chrilt dwell in you richly.’ 2 Tim. iii. 15.‘ From a child thou haft known the holy fcr:>)-tures.’ Eph. iv. 17. ‘ Take the helmet of fal-vation, and the fword of the Spirit, which is theword of God.’ There are many others that Imight mention, which are to be found in thefcriptures; and this not commanded to fome, butto all that feek falvation.Deid. Certainly, if our church had feen thisfit, they would not have denied it ; but beingdangerous to fouls, it ought to be reftrained.Gard. Tt is indeed dangerous to break God’scommandments, and to teach men fo to do, andto make the word of God of none efteft by hu¬man tradition. We know the woes Chrift pro¬nounced againft the Pharifees for thefe things.Deid. Why, who are guilty of this ! Thechurch of Rome, the holy catholic church, asit has in many ages been ityled, is not furelyfpotted with fuch crimes.Gard. I wifli I could fay it was not; but itis21THE FRENCH CONVERT.is deeply guilty, as in many ether particulars,fo molt eminently in this, That it prefeffes, noman is obliged to receive the fcriptures as the■word of God, or to believe any of it, but fromthe teftimoriy of your church ; and to awe mento fuch a belief, threats of damnation are ufed,i as well as the magihvates’ fwords, and crutl tor-| ments by inquiiitions; and, indeed, it is notdone without ground : this is done to hinder3 prying into their grofs idolatries, errors, andfuperftition, derogatory to the feriptures, and:! exprefs command ot God.Eeid. Sure you are befide yomfelf: nor can; you prove this; but being fallen from theI church, do this only in prejudice and fpite, tolay a iiain upon its virgin-innocence.Gard. No; it is apparent from the word ofGod, and even from reafon itfelf, in thofe thatwill conftder, and are not blinded with igno-l1 ranee, which your chinch, in her fenfe, trulyj llyles the Mother of Devotion.Deid. Can any fitch thing be in a churchf that is infallible ? and to prove that it is fo, it is; laid to be built upon St. Peter: be is the rock[ fpoken of, and this rock doth, together with St.Peter, include his fucceffors; and the church1 built on this rock (united to and built upon the '' Pope) is infallible; for it is faid, ‘ The gates ofi hell fhall not prevail againll it.’Gard. Pardon me, lady, if I fay, there is noj agreement among the churchmen about this in-t fallible judge ; fome will have it the Pope, fome; a General Council, and others botli ; none ofyour writers have yet concluded on it. How¬ever thefe words are-perverted ; for it is morej probable, that not St. Peter’s perlon, but his doc¬trine and conftffion concerning Chriil, is the rockupon22THE FRENCH CONVERT.upon which the church is built. Scripture isthe beil interpreter : it is not Feter, but Chrift,that is the foundation of the church, as here inmy Bible you may fee, by the xxviiith chap, and16th verfe of Ifai ih, compared with x Peter ii.6, 7, 8.; which you may pleafe to read, (whichfhe did.) It is moreover c-xprefsly faid, i Cor.iii. ix. ‘Other foundations can no man lay,than that is laid, which is J erf us Chrift.’ Andthis is the more coniiderable, becaufe he fpeaksagainft thofe that made the apotlles to be tltefoundation, faying, ‘ I am of Paul, another ofApollos, or Cephasand if this is {poke ofPeter, no more is faid of him here, than is fpokeof all the prophets and apofhes, Eph. ii. 2 3.‘ Ye are built upon the foundation of the apof-tLs and prophets, Jefus Cariit hiaifdf being thechief corner done.’Deid. Well, I am not much learned in thismy fiery, but, pray, What as erroneous can youaflign in our worfhip, or any other thing thechurch holds as abfolutely neceffary?Card. The paying divine adoration to angelsand faints, exprelsiy contrary to God’s com¬mands, and derogatory to Ins honour, who a-lone ought ro be woi (hipped in heaven and earth;and to worfhip any ether, either faint or angel,or any creature, is idolatry, and a breach of thefecond commandment.Deid. Nay, not too baftily; we do not wor-Hiip the angels and faints as God, with the high-efl worihip, which is only proper to God; butwitli an inferior kind of religious worfhip, thatthey may prefent our fupplications to him.Gard. i'here is no intercefibr or mediator butChriit Jefus, who is appointed to perform thatoffice ; James i. 5. ‘ If any ot you lack vvifdom,let' ■THE FRENCH CONVERT. 23I let Isim sfk of God,’ &c. neither of faints nor ao-1 gels, * Come to me,’ faith our Saviour, ‘ and I1 will in no ways calf you out.’ This free invitationi fhews us, he alone was to receive our petitions,| and preient them to his Father. There is alfoimage-worthip brought cunningly by priells togain worldly advantage; and pretended mira-1 ties, to draw the ignorant to pay their devotionmore at one place than at another, impofed oni the ignorant for lucre’s-fake. I could fay muchI more, but I fear to offend you.Deid. No, yon do not: but let us come near-er to the main controverfy. What think you1.1 of tranfiiblfantiation ? Is sot Chrilt corporally;| prefeiK in the facrament ?Card. It is a mifreprefentation of our Savi-1 cur’s words; for if he had fo meaned, as the) church of Rome holds it. when he broke the| bread, he mull have held bimfelf in his own!i hands, and eaten himfelf, yet if ill fit whole and en-i tire at the table; his whole body mult be in themouth of every communicant at once, and that1 body in millions of places at one time, broken: and unbroken, and be fubject to putrefaction;: and therefore the words, ‘ This is my b>.dy,’f cloth import, ‘ This doth hgnify my body:’ andupon the fame account our Saviour is called ai Door, a Rock, a Vine: Yet to believe he wasturned into any of thefe, none can be fo void ofunderllanding. And therefore, when he brokeI the bread, and gave the cup, he did it only, thatWhen Chriltian congregations were met on fo¬ie mn occafions, to celebrate his worlhip, 4 theyfhculd cio it in remembrance of him, until hiscoming in gioiy at the lalf day,’ as the immedi¬ate woids explain ; and it is abfurd to believe,that the prieft’s uttering a few words over a wa-fer,24 the french convert.fer, can make it a God, or that body offered oathe crofs.Deid, You amaze me: but pray, What doyou hold about Purgatory ? Is there fuch aplace, where fouls are to endure their purgati¬ons after death, that go not immediately to hea¬ven, and by maffes and prayer may be releafedfrom it fooner or latter?Gard. It is a tradition lately brought in, andwith it hath brought much increafe of wealth tot'he church. The Word of God allows onlyheaven for thofe who fliall bo made veflels ofmercy; and hell for thofe whofe fins have pro¬voked him to call them down to thofe difmal re¬gions of furrow and eternal woe; no prayers af¬ter death being available.Deid. Thefe notions are as hew as flrange tome : have you any authentic proof of this ?Gard. Yes, the revealed will of God is fa-cred proof beyond all denial: Luke xvi. 23.‘ Tiie ricli man in hell lift up his eyes, beingin torments.’ Matth. viii. 11, 12. ‘ They lhallfit down with Abraham, Ifaac, and Jacob, in thekingdom of heaven, but the other fhall be callunto utter darknefs, where fhall be weeping andgnafhing of teeth.’ Mark xvi. 16. ‘ He that be¬lieve th lhall be faved, and he that believeth not,fhall be damned.’ Here there is no fuch thing asa purgatory to be found. ‘ It is only the bloodof Chrill that purgeth us from our fins, andfrom all unedeannefs of flefh and fpirit, to pre-fent our fouls blamelefs and unfpotted to his Fa¬ther By this I underfland thefe that die in theLoi d, need not our prayers, and thofe that die intheir fins, no prayers can avail; for in the gravethere :s no repentance: ‘ As the tree falls, foit mull lie; whether it falls towards the north,or .THE FRENCH CONVERT. 25jor towards the fouth ; where it falls, there itiimift lie.’ There are only two extremes, northand fouth, no middle-way, or purgatory for itito fall in.—‘ And as death leaves us, fo judge¬ment will affuredly Snd us.’He would have proceeded; but file floppedhim, faying. Pray how long have you been inthis opinion?Gard Ever fince God was pleafed to enlight¬en me with his grace, to be attentive to his ho¬ly word, and to be guided by it.J Oeid. Was you ever then of the church ofRome ?Gard. In my younger years I was ; but thro’mercy, being made feivible by the fcriptures, oflithe corruptions and errors of that church, bvthe affifiance of worthy divines, 1 hope with St.PlPaul, ‘ Nothing fhall be able to feparate mefrom the love of God, which is in Chrifl Jefus.’1 will not offend your ladyfhip’s chafle ears,[with the hiftory of the debaucheries and wickeddives of divers Popes, and moil of the clergy;tibut will piayto heaven to defend you, from ei¬ther lull or revenge. And fince I have by a free'.confeffion, put my life in your hands, I humblyifubmit it to your goodnefs to ; Here again fne interrupted him, and demand¬ed, Why the religion he profefied was called theProteflant Religion ?To which he replied: As for being fo called,it is to diflinguifn it from that of the Romiih-:Jt came from feveral princes and cities in Ger-imany, who, upon the preaching of good men,and their examplary lives^ protefled again!! thelufuipations of the Romiih church and its errors.That it was no new dobtrine ; but the truth ofprimitive Chriflianity, confefted, gfferted, and• C purged26 THE FRENCH CONVERT.purged from the corruptions of popery, takingthe revealed will of God for its guide.At this Dcidamia paufed a while—and thentaking his Bible, looked over the facred proofshe had turned down in order; and her colourwent and came fo, that he eafily perceived hermind was labouring under fome difficulties; andfo, giving him it again, Ihe went away withoutfpeaking one word.This fomewhat perplexed the Gardener, fear¬ing fhe was difpleafed with what he had fai.d ;but, her fending for him privately to her cham¬ber the next morning, under the notiofi of bring¬ing her fome choice flowers, bauiffied all fear inhim; when, they two being only left together, fhegently led him into the clofet, and ffiutting thedoor to be more private, faid, Bernard, (fetch¬ing a. deep figh) your yeflerday’s difcourfe hasmuch broken my laft night’s reft. I have beenmeditating on it, and I find abundance of reafonin what you fay. You have, as St. Paul faidin another cafe, almoft perfuaded me to be of'your perfuafion.I wifh to God, moft virtuous lady, (repliedhe) I might be a humble inftrument in God’shand, to do any thing that may redound to hisglory, and the good and welfare of your preci¬ous and immortal foul, without hazarding yourtemporal quiet and peace, or expofing you to a-ny danger; though for a crown of life and im¬mortality, all earthly things are to be defpifed :And the hcly apoflle accounts all this world’sgood but as drofs and dung, in comparifon of en¬joying Chrift Jefus. Well, faid ffie, this is myaim ; and if God enables me, with his sffiftinggrace, I hope, thro’ his mercy, to attain it. Ihave, indeed, continued die, to my grief, ch-fervedTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 27ferved the loofe and profane manner of living ofr thofe that profefs our religion ; alledging. That; a confeflion, with abfolution, and Ipme otherworks, will purge them from their fins, and gainthem that bleflednefs in the end, which I could1 never heartily believe they would obtain by them:: and fince I have more ferioufly confidertd God’s1 word exprefsly to the contrary, I cannot believethat any thing but fincere and unfeigned repen-I tance, in the courfe of an unfpotted life, can| purchafe, (through the merits of my Saviour)i thofe glorious and tranfcendant blcffings thatGod hath promifed to poor mortals.—She wouldhave proceeded, but the falling tears flopped her: utterance; and Bernard had an inward rejoicingI I to lee her brought to this pafs. Whefeupon hecomforted her with good advice, and the cordi¬als of God’s mercies and promifes. In brief, hehad made her fenfible of the errors Ihe had beenbrought up in, and then opened, from point topoint, the. cheat of pretended miracles and relics;the impofing on people with pardon and indul¬gence to get money; the whoredoms, murders,and incelts of many popes, cardinals, and pre¬lates of the Rocnilh church ; their unieafonable-nefs in prohibiting priefts* marriage, which isimmediately appointed by God; and the allow¬ing them by canons and docrees, the embracesof concubines or to commit adultery, exprefslycontrary to the command of the Almighty:Forafmuch as he has cxptefsly laid, ‘ Thole thatdo thefe things lliall not inherit eternal life.’—He would have proceeded; but, hearing thelound of feet coming up Hairs, lire halleficd himdown a backway, with fo much precipitation,that he left his Bible behind him: which fhe,luckily feemg, locked up in a ferutoir.C 2.I have28 THE FRENCH CONVERT.I have told you before, that father Antoniothe prieft, forgetting his funftion, duty and dif-tance, gave way to his unruly and lawlefs paf-fioii, and was then blundering up flairs to findher In private, having almoft fluftered himfelfwith wine, on purnofe, either to be more confi¬dent in his wicked defign, to tell her the ftory ofhis naufeous love, or rather luft ; or that, if hewas reproved, he might have fame Header ex-cufe for his impertinency, and lay (as too manydo) the blame of their folly on that which is ra¬ther an aggravation «f their crime, i. e. theirdrunkennefs; and fo furprifed, however, hecame, that putting his note over the upperflep, jufl as the Gardener polled out at the pri¬vate door, he had a glimpfe of the back parts ofIris garments, as it afterwards appeared ; but,at that time, he took no notice of any fucU thing.Deidamia, feeing Antonio coming towards herin a very pleafant humour, demanded, with anrodefl: decency. What occafion brought him hi¬ther to difturb her retirement ?Ah! (faid the impudent prieft, who couldnot long keep down his boiling paffion) ‘ ^ ourtwo fair eyes, fweet lady, like loadftones havedrawn me to you ; that beauteous tempting faceof yours, has made me forget myfelf, with myduty to my Lord, and the trull he repofed in me.*Why I certainly, (faid Deidamia, calling in pa¬tience, to bridle her paffion) you are belide your-felf, Antonio.—What mean you by this kind ofdifcourfe? ‘If I am befide myfelf, (replied he,almoft. crying) your fair felf is the caufe of it:whofe beauty, like arrows, has wounded myheart, and fickened my brain; I wifh I bad nev¬er feen fuch an amiablenefs in womankind: but,fiuce I have been fo unfortunate as to be yourfetter-THE FRENCH CONVERT. 29fettered captive, take fome companion on me,and eafe my fufferings.’ What fufferings ? (re¬plied Deidamia frowning) or what can be thefenfe of all this loofe Huff? ‘ Why then,’ (re¬plied he,) ‘ To be ferious : In plain terras, Ilove you, and that fo paffionately, unlei's you: condefcend to make me fuitable returns, 1 fixallhave no peace nor quiet; but mull be miferablej and wretched eternally,’ Then (faid fhe) beyou fo ; what have you feen of any Loofe un-1 becoming behaviour in me, that you fliould dareI to fpeak thus to me ? This, like a thunder-bolt,: flruck him mute j fmoothing her brows, andj growing a little calmer, (fhe faid,) Come, comeII Antonio, I took you for another man; you pro-j fefs landlity, and admonifh others to lead a holy1 life: Is this pretention real, or, is it only feign->ed, to try my virtue? ‘ I proteft, (faid he, hold-"ing up both his hands) it is real, and 1 cannoti help it.’ Why, (faid fhe,) would you commit!: fe great a. wdckednefs, if you might, and make;i yourfelf guilty of a crime fo heinous? ‘ Ahl la-j dy, (replied he,) if that be all, I can abfolveryou by the power given me by the See of.JRome: Confent, and let me enjoy you, yourlull get a dif-from the Pope,b'penance fliall be always eafy;J wil^penfation for your marriage-vows fr<{with pardon, indulgences, or any thing for hnsspaft, and thofe that are to come : Nay, I willido any thing, fo I do not fall under your dif-ilpleafure : Let me alone for the reft.’ And—This infolence, fo much difpleafed the virtu-jous lady, that fhe could hear no more, nor bearit any longer, but commanded him out of herprefence : yet, could not be rid of him, till fhethreatened to call up the reft of her fervanfs :Whereupon he went muttering away, and, forC 3 two30 THE FRENCH CONVERT.two days after, as much as poffible he could,fhunned coming into her prefence, which rtmchpleafed her ; for fhe could not behold him, butwith horror and deteftation. ,This attempt, however, in one fenfe, (thro’the over-ruling providence and goodnefs of God,who is wonderful in counfel, and excellent in iworking, and can make the greateft wickednefsof his creatures, ferve the purpoies of his own"lory,) worked to her advantage ; for fbe be¬lieved now all true which the Gardener had toldher, about the wicked debauched lives of theRomiili clergy, fince this villainous prieft hadnot fcrupled to proffer the Pope’s pardon for nolefs than adultery, and that before it was com¬mitted ; by which means or encouragement, fheplainly faw, it muft confequently be, that theyfrequently tempted eafy and ignorant people tothe commiffion of many fins: Therefore, ihe re-folved to leave thefe blind guides, and take the Iword of God for her leader and inftrudtor ; for- ||bearing to come to confeffion, or to hear mafs. Iffometimes upon pretence of indifpofition, and at IIother times, purpofely, by going abroad, at the Jufual times of either, and holding feme other |conferences with the Gardener; which (as to Iparticulars) for brevity’s fake, 1 mud of necef- 1iity pafs over.She found in herfelf a ftrange averfion to thereligion fire had been brought up in ; and hav¬ing proceed a Bible in the French tongue,,took fuch delight in reading it, that wheneverHie had time to retire, it was not out of herhand: yet file kept this as fecret as polhble; and1not being ready at it herfelf, got the Gardenerto turn her down fuch proofs, as were theflrongeft arguments againft the errors of Popery,andITHE FRENCH CONVERT. 31and where the abominations of the myftical Ba¬bylon were pointed at: This he joyfully did,and gave praife to God, who had made him in-ftrumental in fo good a work; though he wasnot ignorant his life was liable to pay for it, ifit was difcovered. She likewife laid alide herbeads and crucifix, converfed no more with ro-faries, or the legends of pretended faints j and,though Ihe found fome temptations and fears atthe beginning, yet, frequently praying to God,fbe overcame Satan’s wiles, and found abun¬dance of joy and comfort enlightening her foul ;Ij fo that file could not forbear breaking out intoraptures of praife and tliankfgiving, for thewonderful change, (by fo llrsnge and unexpect¬ed means) wrought in her foul.Whilft this virtuous lady and the Gardenerheld their private corref^ndence, in difeour-fing of the things of God, and encouraging and: and exhorting each other to perfeverance andI ftedfaftnefs in the truth, Antonio and Frono-vius,'equally burning with luftfui defire to en¬joy the tender beauties of the fair Deidamia,I were plotting and contriving how their lawlefsji defigns might bvfl be brought about (cheugh|j each plotted by himftlf,) for as yet they wereignorant of each others paflion. The villainouspriell (as you have already heard) had been re-pulfed with indignation by the chafte lady,which inwardly tormented him, and broughthim. almoft to his wit’s end; but the other(Fronovius) had made no trial of her virtue,and wanted a favourable opportunity to do it ;I and therefore, he thinks, meditates, and calls, many things in his mind, till at laft, his pafiionemboldening him, he was refolved to break theice with a letter, and, Jf fire took no notice ofthat,.32 the french convert.that, to fecond it with a perfonal addrefs: But,how he /hould do this with privacy and I'afety,he was at a ft and for a time; for he feared totrult any body to deliver it, left his criminallove ftiould take air ; and to deliver it himfelf,would look too daftardly, as if he was not capa¬ble, or, at ieaft, durft not fpeak for htmfelf;however, in a little while, he met with a fit op¬portunity ; for Deidamia accidentally droppingher handkerchief, as ihe palled through a largegallery that led to her apartment, he carefullytook it up, and folding up his letter in it, whichhe had ready fenled by him, he gave it to hergentlewoman to give it to her lady, telling herhe found it in the long gallery. The gentlewo¬man knowing the handkerchief to be her lady’s,immediately carried it to her, who received itfrom her, without lapowing any ihing of a let¬ter being in it; and afterwards accidentally tak¬ing the handkerchief out of her pocket, the let¬ter dropped out upon the ground, which flietaking up, and looking upon the fuperfcription,was extremely furprifed, to find it directed toherfelf; and, haftily opening it, was muchmore fo, to find the contents thereof as fol-Ipweth:T^ARDON me, moft lovely Deidamia, ifg your beauty makes me forget the ftaiionI am in, and emboldens me to own a paffion Ihave laboured in vain to hide. To be brief:Dear Lady I am fo captivated by your charmsand lingular perfetfions, that I am conlfrained-to lay, 1 love you infinitely above all mortalcreatures ; and lince it appears to me unreafona-ble, that any one man Ihould monopolize fo in-eftnnable a treafure, give me leave to hope, andTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 33<3o not fuffer me to languid and die, but ren¬der the balm of your kindnefs, to cure thewounds which your bright eyes have made inyour otherwife wretched fervant, , ,,' rRONOVIL’S.”The reading of this letter filled her withblulhes, anger, and amazement, at the unparal¬leled boldnefs and villainy of the author of it,; and at firft fne was refolved to ccmm't it to theflames, or to tear it to pieces; but upon fecondthoughts. Use laid it up in her clofet, where ike1 vexed and fretted herfelf, that fhe was lelt thus!i among fueh ungrateful wretches, that dared fo:: much to fufpeft her virtues, and n eaiuie themby their own wicked and filthy inclinations, as|l to prefume file wmuld defile her marriage-bed ;being more grieved for this difcovery than the: former; for lire knew the pire 11 had fomethirgj of the libertine in him ; but this man Ike had) held to be honed and virtuoufly inclined tillSnow ; and to him {he thought to have difcover-ed Antonio’s folly, if he perfifted in it, that byfiiame and reproofs he might have reclaimed him.But now’ flie fcarce knew who to trufl; andcould not therefore but tremble, at the apprs-lienfions of feme violence that might be offeredI her from thofe luftful mifcreav;ts, whole fightjioiv very much difpleafed her. She thoughtonce or twice of difplaeing tliem; hut foundI their authority in the family was fo great, thatin her Lord’s abfencc, fhe could not do it:whereupon file fell on her knees to imploreGod’s mercy and proteftion, commending her¬felf wholly to his caie and providence, and beg¬ging of him to be her guardian and proteclor.1 hough Deidamia’s mind, on thofe furprifingattempts34 the french convert.attempts of her honour, was varioufly tofTed,till, at laft, flie came to a fettled refolution, pru¬dently to conceal what had paffed, at lead, tillher Lord came home, for fear of icandal anddiliurbance: yet Fronovius might well read inher countenance, whenever he came into herprefence, that Ihe had read his letter, and howjhe refented it; which made him ftruggle toovercome his paffion, but in vain : For like oilthrown on nre, the oppolition his lewd defiresmet with, made him burn the fiercer; fo thathe refolved to find an opportunity to throw him-felf at her feet, and difeover his pallton to herby word of mouth ; and, whilil he waited for aconvenient time and place to do it, he perceivedthe Gardener often to go in, and out very chear-ful, as highly pleafed and contented; and tbo’,he only carried her fruits and flowers, yet hisfrantic paffion and jealoufy made h;m believethere was fomething more in it. Antonio the-pried had alfo obferved the like, and had muchthe fame fentiments, which emboldened themthe more to p; rfifi in their wicked and uncleandefiles, and to continue to perfecute the thaftelady with their deteited proffers of lawlefs love;concluding. That if cue of fo low a rank couldbe in favour, they, in time, could not mils ofobtaining what they fought; and, fo blindedwith paffion, and purfuing what they aimed at,(though, as has been faid, unknown to each o-ther,) they kept a watchful eye over the ac¬tions of Deidamia; whole paind was taken upin’contemplating the divine perfections cf Him,who is fairer than the children of men, beingevery day more confirmed in the truth of herreligion, bleffing and praifing God, that by fowonderful aud unexpected a mean, had broughtTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 35l her out of darknefs and errors, into the marvel-;j lous light of His truth, and engaged her heart1 to embrace and entertain it above her chief joy ;; partly looking on the trouble fhe had from An¬tonio and Fronovius, thofe brethren in iniquity,as temptations or trials to confirm her the more,by overcoming them, in the doftrine flie bad foilately embraced; in which fhe firmly refolved toperfevere againft all temptations whatever.But whilft thefe things paffed, Fronovius hadreceived no other anfwer to his letter, but Dei-idamia’s angry and much changed countenancetowards him, which he would not take for an; abfolute repulfe; and therefore was refolved tohave her pofitive anfwet. To obtain which,as Deidamia was one morning leaning up' n then window in her chamber, and looking into the;garden, he dole foftly up flairs, and was got in¬to her chamber, juft behind her, before fheheard him, when fuddenly turning about, andfeeing him in a dejefted poflure, fhe was verymuch furprifed, an . trembled at the fight, whilft‘he, by many words, endeavoured to fhew the;:igreatnefs of his paffion ; but having fomewhatrrecolledled her fpirits, fhe with an angry coun-■tenance, fpake to him thus : ‘ Why ! how nowiFronovius, what bufinefs have you here, thus(to freal into my chamber unawares? This isffuch an afFsont, a piece of impudence and rune-mefs, as better becomes a thief than the ftewTardof my houfhold^ and yet the filthy errand that:you come on. is far more criminal than your(coming. What have you ever feen of lightnefsin my carriage, that fhould make you thus au¬dacious, or give you the leaf! hope to fucceedin your unlawful and wished ddires? 1 com¬mand you to be gone: and know, that if youperfift36 THE FRENCH CONVERT.par fid in your impudence alid folly, I will ■fpeedily take thofe methods that flrall iflue inyour defevved ftiame and confufion.*He would have replied, but die forthwithwent out of her chamber, and would not hearhim.This abfolute denial and fevere reprimand, fil¬led Fronovius with confufion and almod madehim hopelefs; but, after feme refleftion, heftrongly fancied that the oppofition he met with,proceeded not from the lady’s virtue, but fromthe great inclination the had to fome rival, whoenjoyed thofe favours which he had been purfu-ing; and he fuppofed the Gardener to be the jman, becaufe he had received fome particularmarks of her favour, fince the departure of theCount Alanfon. Being thus perfuaded, he wasrefolved, if it were pofiible, to make a plain jdifeovery: and te this end, he planted himfelf .privately one evening, near the back-ftairs thatled out of the garden into Deidamia’s apart- |ment; (for that way he thought this fuppofedrival mull come;) and indeed, he had not wait¬ed long, before a perfon came by, and went up ,thofe flairs, whom he foftly followed to the jftair’s-foot: the darknefs of the night hindered .him from difeerning who the perfon was that■went by him ; but he doubted not but it was ;the Gardener: and having lifiened at the bot¬tom of the flairs, hearing no door open, nor a-ny key to turn, he imagined the door was leftopen on purpofe, and therefore refolved to goup himfelf, and furprife them in the very aft oftheir unlawful love. He had no fooner refolvedthus, but he heard fomebody come foftly downflairs: As foon as the perfon came to the hot- ,tom of the flairs, Ffonovius boldly feized onhim,THE FRENCH CONVERT. ; 37him, and demanded what bufinefs he had thereit that late time of night j but, was exti emelyfurprifed to meet with, inliead of Bernard t 'iGardener, Antonio the Pried, who then Frono-vius thought had been with Deidamia. Uponwhich, fpeaking big words to Antonio, andthreatening to kill him, for the difhonour hehad done his Lord, in violating his bed; thepoor Pried, (who was almoft dead with fear,and extremely confounded at this accident')trembling, told Fronovius, that, if he would,iave his life, he would ingenuoudy teil him allne knew: which, Fronovius promifing, Anto¬nio told him the dory of his love-addreffes, vio¬lent paffion, and the rcpulfes he met with. Thathowever, being jealous of the Gardener, andnot finding him in his lodging, (for it feemsDeidamia had newly appointed iiim another,.,unknown to Antonio) fufpefled he might bewith bis lady; where defiring to detedf him, andbring him to puoifliment, he had undertaken tocome at this unfeafonabie time; but the doorsbeing fafl. locked, and after a long liiienmg,hearing no fiir nor whifpering; was returningBack again, to watch a more favourable oppor-tunitj-, that he might not, on {light ground, oruncertainty, lay fuch a thing to their charge.Fronovius finding the pried had been rcpulf-,|ed and reproved, as well as he, and that his(thoughts were the fame with his, as to the fuf-jpefted rival, having huftied his prefeut fears,:and declared to him, though fomewhat darkly,:ihis own adeftions, &c. They went to Antonio’sichamber, where they entered into a combinationifo bellifti and malicious, that it brought manywoes and miferies, both to the virtuous Dtida-mia and the Gardener; till by the mercy ofi . D God,38 THE FRENCH CONVERT.God, to the fhame and confufion of the contri¬vers, they were turned to bleflings, to rejoicetl;«' injured, and to clear their innocence, aftermany inexpreflible fufferings.Whilft thefe wicked men were thus plottingto revenge their repulfes, Deidamia was thonght-ful of her fafety: Sometimes Hie determined totvrite to Alanfon, to remember his promife, andhaften his return; but then Are concluded, that,though his prefence might reform thefe difof-ders, to defert his command upon any privateoccalion', would derogate from his honour: andthen fhe confidered, that Ihe could not hide from ihim, the religion fhe had embraced lince his de- jparture, for ftie could not diflemble, if (he wastaxed with it; and though his company wasdear to her, yet the enjoyment of the other, wasmore precious and preferable; and that, in com-parifon of the love of Chrift, all the love of theworld was but of little value: At another time,{he thought of retiring to her parents; but this ifhe fancied would be difpleafing to her Lord, that \in his abfence, (lie ihould leave the government |jof his family, which he had trufted to her care |at his departure; thefe things ferioufly weighed, jfhe refolved to remain at home thinking time »would cure the wild diforders that were in the »minds of thofe two wicked fervants.After this lalt refolve, fhe retired to her clo- i.fet; where fhe had not been long ere the Gar- |idener came to prefent her with a paper he had tdrawn up, by her order, of the fundamental, lpoints of the Proteftant religion, in oppofition ^to Popery; one being compared with the otherJiand tried by fdripture and the fathers of the pri-jiinitive times. « She accepted this paper very jkindly, promiftqg to look it over at leafure, as Ja mat*|fTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 391 a matter fee had iruch defired to be informed: in. Whereupon he retired to his labour in thegarden, whilit a bribed fpy, (their enemies hadfet on the watch,) was running to give inforrr.n-lion of the Gardener’s being with the lady. Fro-novius was out of the way; Antonio haded asfaft as he could, and 1’oftly opening the Ipring-lock, impudently entered the chamber, drawingthe curtains of her bed, 40 hopes of finding whathe looked for there; but miffing his purpofe, heftole to the lide of her clofet, directed thither by•her voice; for the pious lady was fallen on herknees, and fervently pouring out her foul toGod, in thefe words:M Moft bleflid God ! who art the Fatherof nieicies, and the God of all confola-tion. I blefs and praife thy holy name, thatthou haft enlightened the eyes of my underftand-ing with the knowledge of thy bleffed truth, andthat thou haft delivered me from the daiknefsand ignorance, and thefe antichriftian errors,< [wherein I have lived finee my childhood, andshaft revealed the faving knowledge ot thy willunto me, as it is contained in thy bltiltd wtord,;the holy Scriptures: O ftrengthen my heart in:*he profeffion of thy truth! and grant that I mayfjiever return back again to the Popifh idolatryHand fuperftition, nor ;be under the ccndud of! thefe blind guides cany more, whatever uiffer-ngs and trials J may :be .liable to, or may un¬dergo omtliat account*”Thefe pious breathings of her foul, Anto¬nio, to his great amazement, heaid, jand knewnot .what to think, whether he ffiould tiifeoverlitnfclfjjor retire; Jmt, at laft, wickedly fup-D 3 pefing40 THE FRENCH CONVERT.poftng the fear fhe would conceive^ left htjihould difcoA^er what fhe had uttered, againthe Romifh Religion; pr'that, as he concludefhe was an Hugonot, as they call Proteftantsjmight induce her to comply with his luft, hprefented himfelf before her, rudely opening hclofet door, ere fhe had time to vile from heiknees. This continued impudence of his, muctroubled her fpirits ; whereupon, rifmg haftilyfhe forcibly pulled the door, after Ihe had g' -erbun a thruft back, and locked herfelf in. Hoever, it unhappily fell out,- that, in this difmderjnot taking that care, which at another time fhjwould have done, the paper which the Garden;er had newly brought her, with her hafty fliutjting the door, dropped out of her coat, and unperceived by her, was flint out of the clofetwhich Antonio took carefully up, and put iihis pocket, telling her, though the door wafliut againft him, he had heard how fhe hadpoftatized from her religion, and how wickedlfhe had fpoken of the holy Roman CatholiChurch, and, what mifehief he could do her, ihe fhould difeover it; yet, for the love he borher, if Hie would yield to eafe his paffion,fhonld be buried in eternal oblivion ; but if fhrefufed, he had now got an opportunity to rui.her.The pious lady (whofe fervant devotions thxwretch had interrupted) bridled, as much as human frailty could do, her paflion, commandehim, in mild terms, to be gone, and not wounher chafte ears with his hated difeourfe. Againft the injury he threatened, file trufted iGod for proteftion, who is a ftrong tower f<the fafety of all thofe that fly to him ; and fhrjdoubted not, when fhe had ah opportunity tmakTHE FRENCH'CONVERT. 41,1 make her Lord fenfible of it, he would, throughthe favour of Almighty God, concur with herjin her opinion.Antonio, finding himfelf difappointed in hismain expectation, and thoroughly nettled withthis anfwer, particularly .the conclufion of it,went away, threatening and muttering to him-felf, and in the antechamber met Eronavius,who, upon later notice, was haftening to him;to whom he told all he had feen and heard.This made them confult to take new meafuros.;and, in conclufion, refoived her chaftity, or life,Ihould be facrificed to their revenge. This wasno fooner concluded on, but. Antonio remember¬ed that paper he had taken up; and, taking itout of his pocket, knew it to be the Gardener’s «hand, and, at firft, fuppofed it to be a love-let¬ter, that might difeover the intrigue betweenhim and his lady, was highly pleafed; but hehad fcarce read it half over, ere he found fuchweighty arguments againft the church of Rome,levelled fo diredly againft her tottering founda¬tion, as not only puzzled his underftanding, but1 made him ftorm at a ftrange rate; whereupon'.Fronovius took it out of his hand, and read thereft, and in the clofe, thefe words, viz. Virtu-1 ous lady, thefe arguments, pro et contra, I fub-l -mit to your great wifdom, being very joyful in1 having, under God, been a poor initrument inenlightening your underftanduig to difeern truthif from falfehood.I This left them no.longer in doubt, who theI party was, that (as they termed it) bad inducedher to apoftatize, and become an heretic, and,I for this, confequently, to enjoy favours file de¬nied tethem; whereupon they vowed a bloodyi icvcnge. But feaiing that the love AlanfonD 3 boieTHE FRENCH CONVERT.bore her, would not be effaced bj the changeof her religion, efpecially when he Ihould cometo underfland their criminal pafiion for her, andpraftices againft her, they refolved to make herparents bear $he bfame of that flupeuduous wick-ednefs, which they themfelves deligned to be theaftors of: for they knew that her parents wereextraordinary begotted to the Romilh church;and fo were the likelieil to deal with in thismatter. Whereupon Antonio immediately polt-ed- to them, and defiring a private conferencewith the father and mother, after many hypo- |•critical Ihews of forrow for the difgrace thatwould befal the family, he declared, how his la¬dy (fince his lord Rad been abfent) had been per¬verted from the Catholic Religion by a Hugo-not, a heritic Gardener, a fugitive wretch, thathad been taken in, fome years ago, upon chari¬ty. He urged, what di{honour it would be totheir family, the danger incurred by the king’sediHs j and, laftly, the lofe of her foul, if ihe fwas not timely recovered and brought to the iriglit fold, from whence Ihehad perverfelyfirayed J|!Then he began to magnify the pious care andj;pains he had taken to keep her in the right]way, and to prevent her falling into fuch an un¬pardonable fin; but that the devil had been too'hard for his indullry and labours, thro’ God’si !.high fufferanee, to bring feme great judgementon her, for her haughtinefs and contempt,This being delivered in a tone very movingand pafiionate,. feemed altogether in pity to Dei-damia, made her father figh, and the old ladyburit out in tears, wringing their hands, and be¬wailing the mifeties of their aged years, in this{as they then termed it) word'of misfprtunestnat ecu Id befal them; that the only branch oitheir'■(■IJ'1I.]I1r1Ii;KTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 43theTr family, that fhould convey it to pofterityhad made herfelf a caft-away; for fo, in theirpaffionate mocd, they expveffed her to be. An¬tonio was glad to fee them thus wrought upon ;and the f orm of their firft grief fpending itfelf,being allayed by falling tears, they began toconfult more maturely, how this misfortunemight be reverfed; and, after many things weredebated, Antonio’s device of lodging her in a nun¬nery, (where Are might be relirained from here¬tic books, as he faid, and the company of anyfeducers, and alfo be irftrutled by virtuousnuns, till her Lord came home, ai d determined.what might farther be done in it,) was approv¬ed.What was to be done with the Gardener, wasthe thing to be confulted; whether to makehim away fecretly, or deliver him up to juflice;the prielt was for the former, but the parentsconfcienc.es were tender in that, and could rotconfent to fuch wickednefs; but Antonio alled-ged, that the whole bulinefs would be madepublic, if he were delivered up to juflice, andtheir daughter would be biought in as criminal^and, perhaps, for her obftinacy, her lord mightlofe his honours and preferments at court. Thismade them confider farther, and, at laft, leaveit to the wicked pried, or thofe he fliould ap¬point, to do as he or they pleafed. They wouldhave born him company to Alanfon’s houfe, tofee what their perluafions might dobut heurged, it would only be a means to difeoverthe matter; that it would be belt for them tocome and moderate things when the Count came• home, of which he would give them the firftnotice; fince, at prefent, what was to be done,,required fecrecy: that in the mean time, die» Would<44 THE FRENCH ’CONVERT.would be provided for as became her quality;and, that fuch a place as he mentioned, withtime and company, were the belt care to juftlethole wild notions out of her head: Upon whichthey only fent her a letter, and refolved not togo themfelves: So Antonio returned, well fatis-fied, to his wicked companion.Deidamia, (who was ignorant of this,) mif¬fing her paper, and not doubting which way itwent, taking more care for Bernard the Gar¬dener than herfelf, thought by it he would bedifcovered; wherefore (he fent for him, gavehim a handful of gold, and commanded him toihift for himfelf; telling him what had paffed,and the danger he was in. This command hefeemed exceeding loth to obey, and with tearsin his eyes, protetled, that lor the fake of hisreligion, and in her defence againft any injuryor violence, he was willing to expofe his life ;hut Ihe urged fo many things to hallen his de¬parture, that he promifed to do it: and fo they(with ihedding many tears) took a long farewclof each other.Bernard was preparing to depart, as Antonioreturned with his orders ; whereupon Fronoviitsclapped him up in a dungeon, and that nightifiired two ruffians to carry him to the fea-clifts,.and throw him thence head-long; and thitherthey carried him in a fack, on a horfe, gagged*and bound; but finding a veflel, thruil into acreek, very near the clifts, one uf them enquir¬ed, and found it .belonged to a French plantation-in the Well Indies: Whereupon they took theametfiod of Jofeph’s .brethce.. with the llhmael-rites, to make the bell purchafe. of him, ratherthan dellroy him.and lo£e it; fo-he that came totenquire, demanded of the viftafter, Jf:he wanteda lultyTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 45Ja lufty fervant ? He told him. Yes ; then he re¬turned, and took the Gardener' ou: of the fack,lingagged and unbound him, and told him, That' though he deierved to die, for perverting his la-1 dy to herefy, yet they had compaffion uponhim, and would only fend him to do penance,for a flave in the Weft Indies, and bid him ac-* cept of it thankfully, and without muttering;and thereupon they delivered him to the mailerof the veficl, of whom they received twelvecrow ns. After which they returned, and gavean account that they had thrown him, with a; great ftone about his neck, from a fifty-foot1 cLft into the fca ; and for it, received the re¬ward promifed them. Nor was Bernard unwill¬ing to go with his new mailer, finding provi-^dence had changed the death that was dsfigntdhim, only into flavery, from whence he mighthope in time to be releafed. But his care wasgreater for Deidamia than himfelf; for he hadbeen ufed to misfortune, and inured to feveral'hardftnps. And, her grief was no lefs, that {hefound herfglf conflrained, (as ftie’iuppofed, forhis fafety,}- fo abruptly to part with the manIthat had been an inftrument in the filling her'heart fo full of heavenly confolations; and hadnot laid her commands on him to w rite tc her,or other w ife to give fecret notice of his abidingplace, (that fire might have had farther converfewith him, and be more llrengthened by him inthe profeffion of that truth he had inftruftedher in, and which fire was refolved to abide by,)till {lie found means to rtftore him to his placeagain.j3|;hilft Ore was penfive on thtfe thoughts An-tomo having (as 1 before told you) get a letterfrom her parents to her, wherein they laid theircom-46 the french convert.•commands on her, till her Lord’s return; ‘ Asihe tendered the favour of Almighty God, theirbleffing, and her own honour and fafety, to beruled and guided in all things by her fpiritualpallor:’ (So, being ignorant of his villainy, theytermed this, wicked prieft.) * And, whateverhe perfuaded her to, for the good of her fouland bodily prefervation, readily to complywith; to whofe care and integrity, next tothe heavenly protection, they heartily recom¬mended her, till her Lord and hutb-nd camehome:' This was figned by both of them. And,Antonio having confulted Fronovius about it,they both came boldly to her apartment, whenthey knew (he was in private, and puefented itto her; ‘ Charging her to obey it, as (he ten¬dered her fafety.’ She no fooner looked on it,hut, afltmg them fo many queftions, that, :byAntonio’s replies, (he was not infenfible thoyhad traduced her to her parents ; ami, afterforne jutt reproaches, told them, ‘ It fhould nothe long, before (he would go and plead her owacanfe; and, doubted not fo to juflify her pro¬ceeding to her parents, that the black villainyof her bafe and treacherous accufers, (hould beunable to fully the brightnefs of her innocencef*This, at full, ftartlcd them; but, being fullyarefolved to proceed in their wicked defigns, theyplainly told her, ‘ She was at their difpofal, andthat they had orders to carry her to a nunnery,where (he (hould be honourably ufed; but de¬barred from the deftruflive principles (he hadlately imbibed, till her and their iLord .tetumed,to take the matter into his own hands, and de¬termine how he pleafed to difpofe of her.’This infufferable impudence of thefe luftfulwretches, (Urred up her aeal to fo much holyaugerTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 47anger and deteftation of what they propofed,that {he, in a great paffior, protefted to ‘ Die athoufand deaths, if it were poffible, and, by thei tnoft exquifite torments their hellifh malicecould invent, rather than to be inclofed with¬in the walls of a nunnery ; w hich fhe was fatis-fied was no ether than a fink of fin, and plaufi-ble colour for lewdnefs and debauchery ’ Butthey, without replying, offering to force herfrom the clofet; fire oppofed her llrength againfttheir rudenefs: But Fronovius, w ho was thefteward and governor of the family, had fo or¬dered the matter, that thofe that immediatelywaited upon her, were then out of hearing ; fothat, without any other interruption, than whather contending gave them, they hurried her in¬to a clofe chambeir in the remoteft part of thehoufe, where they locked her in, and went toconfult farther, how they {hould fecretly con¬vey her from thence; whilft {he, (who expect¬ed, after fuch treatment, nothing but a violationof her chaftity, would much rather have em-ibraced death, and counted it a favour,) waspouring out her foul to God, and imploring hisdielp in this needful time of her trouble, andibegging of him to ftrengthen her faith ; ’till, ona iudden, to allay the trouble and afflittions of• her mind, luch beams of joy and comfort dart-ied into her foul, that {he allured heifclf, ‘ Thatthat merciful God, wbofe gracious protectionfire had been feeking, would work out fleliver-Ience for her in due time.’Thefe confpirators, by this time, had cometo a refult to rid themfelves, as they thought,for ever, from the fears they were in of theirvillainous pradicts being difeovered, which wasthis:F rono-43 THE FRENCH CONVERT.Fronovius counterfeited a letter in Alanfon’shand, fo very exactly, that if himfelf had feenit, he might have been puzzled to diftinguifh itfrom his own ; and having gotten two ruffiansreadp, one drefTed in the habit of an officer, andthe other like a fervant attending him, Antonioand his companion in wickednefs went to herwith it, and falling on their knees, with fomeforced tears, humbly implored her pgrdon forthe indignities they had offered to her ; befeech-ing- her to be their good lady, notwithllaadingtheir follies, and they would never in the likenature offend, nor do any thing to difoblige her;with many other proteflations, and much feign¬ed farrow for their rudenefs and dehgns uponher chaftity, entreating her not to difcpver it toher Lord.Whilfl Deidamia was wondering what thatfudden alteration, in tlrofe who had lately forudely treated her, might mean, Fronovius de¬livered her the letter ; in which fhe read thefewords :“ My dear Deidamia,THOUGH I know, that the news whichthefe lines will acquaint you with, cannotbe acceptable to you, yet I conjure you, by ourmutual affections, that you fuffer not yourfelfto be difturbed, but hear what 1 fhall tell you,with that patience and ferenity of mind whichbecomes you ; as knowing it is our duty, in all.things that happen to us, to fubmit to the Di¬vine Will. Know then, my lovely Deidamia,that, in a late encounter with a party of the e-nemies, I happened to be wounded by a chancefhot, which my furgeon tells me is mortal; andfearingTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 49i fearing that it may be fo, and Uefiring, above ail! things here below, to.have a fight of your dear:jfelf, before I depart out of the world, I haveIfent the bearer, Monf. Durell, one of my cap¬tains, to conduct you to me forthwith, who isa perfon of that worth and honour, that youmay truft yourfelf-with him without the trou¬ble of any attendants, but what he brings withhim; beeaufe I would Itave you come as fpeedi-ly as may be; which is, at prefent, all from1 him, who is, both in life and death,Your ever faithful hufband,I C H A R L E R 0 Y,Jul7 I?39*Ds Alanson.”At the reading of this (he tfembled, lookediij pale, and filed abundance of tears, being "in the1 greateft diforder and confuffion imaginable ; en-5Ueating inftantly to fee the party that broughtit; promifing (on their renewing their intreaties)not to difcover their wickednefs, if, by their fu-ture demeanor, they made an amendment forwhat had palled; and they, thereupon, folemn-ly promifed, and led her down into the hall,5 where the pretended captain and iris fervantc bowed very low to her; and bei\g beforc-handinftrufled, anfwered alf her qmflions fo cun-Iningly, that (he verily believed the letter tohave come from her Lord, and that all he faidwas true: defiring them to refrefh themfeives,wjiilft fire fitted herfelf with other apparel, andi tbok fome jewels, gold, &c. along with her.I Which done, and being about four in the even-i ing, the innocent dove comn.iued herfelf intothe talons of thefe bloody V allures, mountedE behind5® THE FRENCH CONVERT,behind the fuppofed captain, who had his in-ftrudlions not to let her fee the nest moiaimjdawn. Antonio and Fronovius pretended muchfurrow at her departure; but inwardly rejoiced,that, by this ftratagem, they could get her edi-ly into the trap, without noife and difturb'ance ;which had they gone about to do by force, hercries might have brought refcue, and preventedtheir villainous purpofes. The curfed prieft in¬deed, would have firft raviihed her by himfelfand his companion, and then murdered her athome ; but the other, confidering that it wouldbe difficult to difpofe of the body, contrived thisway: Bur, I mult leave them for fouie time,hugging themfelves in their fecurity, and followthe deceived innocent.The bloody cut-throats having got the prize,by her too much credulity, into their pofl'effion,took all the by-ways they could, croffing thecountry, and holding her in difcourfe with ma¬ny things relating to the war, and fo fpun outthe time, till the fun was near fetting, when,coming into a valley between two vail woods,in a place much unfrequented, they rede intoone of them, at a turning of a narrow way,where the fuppofed captain flopped; and theruffian that rode Angle, alighted, and fuddenlypulled Deidamia from behind h;m ; who, at founexpected a rudenefs, trembled, and began tofufpeCt the treachery; nor was the other flowin difmounting, when both carried her fartherinto the wood. Upon this, with piteous fluieksand cries, (lie demanded the caufe of fnch vio¬lence ; but, without replying, the villain whohad carried her, drawing his fvvord, direCted itfor the fatal thruft, defigning inftantly to pierceher heart; whilfl, on her knees, Ihe was implor¬ingTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 51i ir*g theii pity and compaffion, and entreating toi knew in what fr.e had ofi'erded, to make themfo \oid of humanity towards a. diftrefled lady,whom they liad betrayed into that folitaryplace ; being convinced, that her Lord Lad giv¬en no fuch commands: No, replied they, That: is true, nor do we know him; but Antonio| and Fronovius have, and we matt obey them :befides, you are a heretic and ought not to live.Ideidamia now finding fho w as betrayed by: her wicked fervants, into the hands of thefemetctltfs villains, and feeing nothing hi’.t pre-fent death before her eyes, Ihe pouted out herfoul to God in vehement petitions, for favourfrom his hands ; and, that, if he faw fir, ihe;ll ihould live no longer here, that he would re-I ceive her into life eternal ; and that rather, if! it were required, fire might feal her profeffion1 of the reformed religion, in which fhe had foundj io much heavenly confolation, with her deareft1 blood, than be prevailed with to recant it butthou, O Lord ! fa d fhe, who deliveredit Danielfrom the fury of the lions, and the three child¬ren from devouring flames, cenft, if thou wilt,in this extremity, deliver me from thefe blood-thirfty men, whom I have in no manner injured:! But, be it as thou pleafeft; fo that my depart-! ing foul, when it leaves this mortal body, mayfind flicker in the arms of thy mercy. The vil¬lains, who, all this while had eyed her, and fawher lovely in her tears, troubled not themfelves1 about her religion, for their bulinefs was toi murder her ; and, therefore, the pretended cap-1 tain faid, ‘ Lady, our time is fliort, tins inftant1 you muftdie; therefore fettle your mind for the1 fatal lirokeTo this fhe made no reply, butcontinuing on her knees, with eyes uplifted toE 2 heaven.5 2 THE FRENCH CONVERT,heaven, fighs and tears being the language, ofher loui, h.s impious hand was about to givethe fatal thruft ; but the oilier catched hold ofhis arm and flopped his fword; and, after that,they w Tiered ; bur, fhe knew net what theylaid, tii'? their farther attempt revealed it.i hey had no fooner done conferring notes,but they violently forced her on her back, andprepared to ravifh her firft, and then put her todeath: Her cries were upon tins redoubled, andfile begged death rather than the lofs of her chaf-rity; opening her bofom, and tempting theiriwords to pierce it. But her beauty, in thislorrowful condition, was fo charming in theirJuftful eyes, that they were inexorable to hercries and prayers. O! had Alanfon been butthere, with what vengeance, at this piteousfight, would his fword have been drawn to theirdeftrudhon and her refeue ; but, lie being igno¬rant of the wounds his dear lady was about toreceive, Heaven interpofed for her refeue : Forthe villains fell at difeord, who ftiould fiift en-^oy her; and the conteft grew fo hot, that theyuifputed it with their fwords ; and, in the dud,the pretended captain (vnoft forward in the mif-chief) was run through the body; and with aghaftly groan, yielded up his wicked foul intothe hands of death. The other being fordywounded, and fainting, through lefs of blood,gave Deidamia time to fly farther into thewoods; wandering fo far, that, night coveringevery thing with riarknefs, flie thought, ftiemight now reft a little to recover breath ; andio fat down upon the ground. Though thedangers fhe had fo lately efcaped from wickedmen, and thofe that ftie now feared from wildbeaft?, would net for a long time, fufter her toclofeTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 53clofe her eyes: however, fhe ceafed net, withearned prayers and fuppheations, to recommendherftlf to God, and implore his aid and protec*lion; who, by the late wonderful deliverancehe had given her, had fafficicntly fhewn her, howable he is to fave to the utmoil, even in the1 midft of the greateft dangers. The conliderationwhereof, was a mighty allay to her prefent for-rows, in the midit of that forlorn condition to1 which (he was reduced; fo that, a little fupport-1 ed thereby, ilrej at laft, tell into a found deep ;having no other pillow than a turf of grafs, nor■ covering, than the canopy of heaven. Themorning being come, Deidamia again returned! thanks to God, both for her late deliverance,and her laft night’s prefervation : earneftly beg-; ging of him, That as he had gracioufly begun: to deliver her, fo he would, in his own goodtime, complete it to his own glory and her good;Cl and that, though at prefent her affiiftions werenot joyous but grievous, yet, thro’ God’s over-J ruling providence, they might afterwards bring1. £orth for her the peaceable fruits of righteoui-jt nefs ; humbly defiring, Ihe might be kept from.I harbouring bard thoughts of God, or of hisI truth and ways, which fhe had fo lately em¬braced, notwithftanding any fufferings -ftie had,or might meet withal upon that account. Andhaving thus recommended hcrfelf to God, Iherefolved, if it 4 .re poffible, to get out of thatdefolate, patklefs, and folitary place; but themore fhc thought to extricate herfelf, the moreftie found herfelf entangled and without hopes ofgetting out. The fruits, that at that time ofthe year grew upon the trees, fupplied her withfood; and the little purling Itreams, that iffuedfrom fome fprings in the wood, fupplied herE 3 with; 4 THE french convert.with drink ; fo that finding it impoffible to getaway, fhe was content to tarry there, till theprovidence of God fliould find out fome way ofdeliverance for her; being fatisfied in this, thatthe comforts of converfation, and other conveni¬ences that file ufed to have, were abundantlymade up in the communion £he enjoyed withGod; whofe bltfi’ed prefence, as fhe has finceconfelied, did more than icccmpence for all herotitward wants :—In the poflfeflion of whichhappinefs we will leave her for a. time, and lookback to fee what became of the furviving ruf¬fian.His companion (as we have already heard)w as killed in their conteft, about which fiiouldenjoy, cr rather ravifh Deidamia firfl ; and hethat furvived, fainted away thro’ lofs of blood,which (as we have already related) made wayfor Deidamia’s. efcape: But he recovering, infome little time, found means to flop its effu-fion; and then miffing of Deidamia, he madewhat fearch he could for her, not fo much tofatisfy his lull, (which his lofs of blood hadpretty much allayed,) as to take away her life,that, in time to come, file might not be au evi¬dence of his wickednefs ; but not finding her af¬ter all his fearch, he buried his companion, andreturned to tliofe that had fet him to work: tell¬ing thpm, ‘ That Deidamia, when ffie found fheropfl die, by a furprize, had fetched away hiscompanion’s fword, and flain him with it, by anunlooked for thruft: But that myfelf had quick¬ly revenged it by her own death ; and had buri¬ed them both in a deep pit, to avoid difeovery.’This they believed, and gave him what theybad promifed, being mightily pleafed, that nowthev were, as they thought, at leafl. out of danger.WhililTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 55Whilft thefe things were thus ailed, Deida-nria’s parents were exceeding troubled, even toi that degree, that their fkep departed fromthem; and thefe little flumbets that they fome-times got, yvere interrupted with ftrange andmnaccountable dreams, which were alfo attendedwith an unufual melancholy, of which theycould give no account. This made them refolveto enquire after Deidamia, of whom they had(heard nothing fince the permifficn they gave to1 Antonio to carry her to a nunnery.-But Fronovius and Antonio had been fo cun-lining, to prevent their difeovery of the villainy^,,that, for a fum of money, they engaged a cer¬tain abbefs of Antonio’s acquaintance, to ac¬knowledge, (when there fiiould be occafion,)That Deidamia had been brought thither; but,! that fhe had made her efcape from thence, fothat fhe knew not what was become of her, norcould give any account of the reafon of it, but1 only by a note which fhe left behind her in heri chamber ; w hich note Fnonovius, who, as wei hav-e already laid, had a notable faculty at the! counterfeiting of hands, had writ in a hand falike Deidamia’s, that it could not be diflinguifh-ed. : They had alfo given the abbefs a ladder ofropes, by wkich it was pretended fhe had madeher efcape. Frcnovius and Antonio, having fo■well laid their defign with the Abbefs, kept pof-feffion of Alanfon’s houfh, without fear or con-troul. And, therefore, when Deidamia’s pa¬rents came thither to enquire after their daugh¬ter, they received them with mucli feeniingcourtefy, and kindnefs; and Fronovius toldthem, * That though it had unhappily fallen,out, that their lady, had been perverted to he-refy fmee the departure of the Count her huf-band ^)56 THE FRENCH CONVERT.band ; yet he had taken that care of the family,in his Lord’s abfence, which was coiiiiilant withhis duty ; and that, as to his lady, the orders_ they had been pleafed to give to Antonio, tofend her to a nunnery, had been punftually ob-ferved; and, he hoped, bv that means, againftthe coming home of their Lord, fhe might be a-gain reconciled unto her mother-church; outof which there is no falvation.' Though thisdifcourfe of Fronovius’ was very plaufible, yetthe parents of Deidamia were not at ail fatisfiedwith it; but defired to fee and diCcourfe withher in the nunnery were die was; which Frono¬vius feemed ready to alfent to, and with Anto¬nio, offered their fervice to accompany themthither; telling them, they had given -a ftridtcharge to the Abbels, to prevent any hereticsfrom coming to her, that none might be admit¬ted to fpeak with her but themfelves, or by theirimmediate order.The parents, being for the prefent fatisfiedv/ith this anfwer, lay there that night, big withthe hopes they had of feeing their daughter thenext day; which being come, they went withAntonio and Froncvius to the nunnery, but,were extremely furpriled, when they came thi¬ther, to hear the Ahbefs fay, that the younglady had been too hard for her, and, notwith-ftanding all-her care and diligence, had found away to make her efcape but the day before; andthen led them into the garden, fliewing them theladder of ropes by which fhe got over the wail;and then taking them into a room, that fhe cal¬led her chamber, gave them the note whichFronovius left with her, afking her parents ifthey knew that hand; they haftily opened it,and thought verily it had bcen^of Deidamia’swriting yTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 57'writing; and, then reading, found it to contain'thefe words:“ TT Aving been forced to this place againli£ j my mind and confcience, let none betroubled, that I hare found means to let myfelfat liberty; and am gone to him, who, no doubt,will right me of the injury done me by my trea¬cherous fervants.DE1DAM1A ”Her parents, upon reading this letter, believ¬ing it to be true, burft forth into tears for thedofs of their daughter, not knowing row in whatpart cf the country to feek for her: the onlyhope they ha' , was, that fhe was gone into I lan¬ders to hei hufb. nd : to which opinion, Frcno-ivius and Antonio both perfuaded them, fromthat expreffion in the note, I am gone to himjkhat will right my 'ijuites.' Upon which, giv¬ing Fronovius a charge, to be a faithful flewatdiin his Lord’s abfence, they returned to theirown houfe; where they’writ the following let-■ter to the Count, and fent it by an exprefs toiFlanders.>To the Count De Alanson, Colonel of theRegiment of Picardy,*“ Dearefl Son,IN"ITT is not without inexprefiible grief that wea write thefe lines, which bring you the fadtidings of the greattfl afflitlion, tliat ever befelyou; and which without the Dirirc aid, youwill find it very hard to bear; but 1 hope heaveni will fupport you under it. It is, m brief, thelofa<8 THE FRENCH CONVERT.Jofa of Deidamia. ] do not mean death, forhad heaven ordained it fo, that would have beenfar more eligible : But, alas ! (lie is loft both to jherfelf and all of us ; and, the is, fince your de¬parture, perverted to herefy and turned an ob-ftinate Hugonot ; which whilft we endeavoured Ito reclaim her from, by contenting, upon the 1advice ot your Chaplain, father Antonio, that |the fhould be put into a nunnery, fhe is efcap- ]ed from thence no one knows whither. The Ithoughts thereof have filled the hearts of myfelfand wife, with fuch inexpreffible grief and for- jrow as hath rendered us altogether unconfolable. |Our only remaining hope is, that fhe may be ?gone to you ; and that if you have not already, |you may yet hear of her in a few days ; for fhe ileft behind her in her chamber, at the nunnery 1of St. Bridget’s, whether Fronovius and Anto- ■nio conducted her, the following noteu T T Aving been forced to th.ts place againft fft 1 my mind and confcience, let none be |troubled that I have found means to fet myfelf Iat liberty; and am gone to him, who, no doubt, |will right me of the injury done me by my trea- |cherous fervauts. DE1DAM1A.” j<l It is this note alone that give* us ground to 6hope that you may fee her again ; and, I pray fGod, it fhay fall cut accordingly. And, when- •ever this loft fheep fhall be found again, I doubt bnot, but you v/ill lay her in your hoiom, ac- Icording to the example of our great Shepherd; j;and, by your wonted love and tendernel's towards I:her, endeavour to reflore her again to the true I.fold and church of Chrilt; to whole protection I Icommit you, and fo farewell. J. Montaigs.” |The iTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 59The Count Alanfon was fo tranfporttd withgrief at the reading of this letter, that for fomtjtime he remained fpeechlefs. His trouble wastoo great to vent itfelf in words; flill watersbeing always the deeped : but foon after, hisforrow gave itfelf vent in the mod paffionateland feeling complaints; and then, calling forpen and ink, he writ the following letter to hisfather.AtANSON to SlEUR MONTAIGN."SIR,T Received your letter, the contents whereofi 1 have brought that grief and forrow to myheart that will continue thete for ever, unlefsIthe fight of my deared Deidamia removes it.Her being turned Hugonot, is not that which(gives me much trouble; it rather makes me’think there is fomething of good in thofe opini-“ons, or elfe, fo much goodnefs and virtue astthat of Deidamia’s could never have embracedfldiem. Had you but let her alone in my houfe,il had been happy dill; but your endeavouringto reclaim her has been the rum of us both : Iram fo tranfported with grief and anger, that I(know not what to write; nor would I write atjjall, but come away immediately, were it notfor the hopes you gave me from the note,ifound in the chamber of my deared Deidamia,iffhat die was gone to him that would foon righther injuries, and that can be none but myfolf.Might I but recover her again, die diould notoe midaken in her thoughts. It is in hopes ofher coming, that I am content to day here a lit-le longer : for it is Deidamia alone can makene happy, Farewel. ■ ALANSON.”A The60 THE FRENCH CONVERT,The meiTeri’Ter being returned with Alanfon’sletter, it adrniniftered frefh grief to Deidamia’sparents. For they thereby found, that by theirtoo ealily yielding to Antonio’s defigns, theyhad not only loft their daughter, but the affec¬tions of their fon-in-law.—In this ftate we willnow leave them, and make Deidamia a vifit in ‘her forrowful folitude.Deidamia being in that lonely place, each day |removed her habitation, until, at laft, (he founda cave to fecure herfelf from the injuries of theweather; and it was a quiet refting-place for herin the night feafon, for by (hutting up themouth of the cave, (he covered herfelf from alldanger; which (he looked upon, and thankedGod for, as a great mercy; and living uponthe fruits that gr*w in the wood, (as I faid be¬fore) (lie fpent her time wholly in prayer and'meditation; and though her diet and lodgingwere extremely changed, yet her health wasboth continued and increafed; and fhe foundthat promife made good unto her. As thy day is,fo Jhall thy Jlrength be.She had now lived almoft four months in thisfolitude.; and, the winter approaching, beganto make the woods uncomfortable, and the cold,extremely nipping : fo that Deidamia was forc¬ed often to walk apace to get her a heat. Oneday, as fhe had walked farther than ordinary,fhe difcovered feme kind of an bbfeure path firehad not feen before; and, tho’ fhe knew not whi¬ther it would lead her, fhe was refolved to fol¬low the tra<ft She travelled fo far that day, that:it was in vain for her to think of returning to herbeloved cave, where fhe had lain fo many nights;,and therefore, -making the beft fhift that fhercould, flie fat down upon the ground, and le-com-THE FRENCH CONVERT. 61■ commending herfelf to the Almighty’s protec¬tion, compofed herfelf to reft.. The next morn¬ing Are arofe as foon as it was light, and travel¬ling forward, perceived her path to be like that: of the jujiy which the wife man tells us, Jhincsmore and more unto the perfeEl day. And, fhewas encouraged to go on, becaufe fhe fanciedi fire heard the barking of dogs; and, after travel¬ling a little farther, fire was.well affured it wasa real thing and not a fancy only; and thereforeiflie purfued her journey the more eagerly : The: fun had not come to his meridian, when the? heard an unufual rulhing among the bufires, and{landing ftill to know ivhat it might mean, fheperceived a grave, old man, with two dogs fol¬lowing him, come from among the trees. They1 were both alike futprifed at the interview; forthe old man, having never feen any human crea¬ture in that place before, could not but be a-mazed to fee a woman coming from the midft ofthe wood; and therefore addrefling himfclf toher, he enquired by what misfortune fhe camethither ? entreating her not to be afraid, for fhei fhould receive no harm from him. Dcidamia,[ upon this, looking carneflly upon him, and per-aceiving his carriage and demeanour to be whata became the gravity of his years, fhe told him,SK She was indeed in a wbld place, and knew notthe way out again.’ To this, the old man re-' plied, ‘ If fhe would go with him to his homelycottage, his wife would condudt her out of thewood.’ Deidatnia prefently accept'd of hiskindnefs and went with him. And after they■had gone about the fpace of a mile, they cameto his houfe, where the good old woman (whowas fomewhat furprifed to fee her hufhand bringa ftranger along with him) rofe up, and receiv-h ed€1 THE FRENCH CONVERT.ed her very courteoufly, defirinu her to fit down,and refreth herfelf with fuch homely fare astheir cottage afforded, which lliedid; and thenaflced her farther how Ihe came into that place.Deidami-a 'defired they would afk her no quef-tions, for the relation of her ftory would but fe-tiew her grief; only, this much Ihe would letthem know, that her being there alive was theeife&s of God’s providence in delivering herfrom wicked and blood-thirfty men, that foughtto take away her life. Upon which, perceivingher to be full of grief, they afked her no morequc-ftions ; but finding her very weary, they ledher into a homely, but clean apartment, to re-pofe herfelf upon the bed. Deidamia was migh¬ty thoughtful what this aged couple might be ;and, whether or no, for her apparel’s fake, andthat gold, and thofe jewels Hie had about her,fhe might not fall into as great a danger, as thatihe had formerly efcaped; and though Ihe was,at Grfi glad of their company, fire could havewilhed herfel in her beloved cave again. Buther <ears vrere quickly over; when, by a FrenchBible, and other books fhe found in her room,and, by the hearty prayers of the good old manat night, fhe perceived they were Hugonots;who, had fled into that folitary retirement, forthe fake of their religion. This made her Bemuch more free with them, bleffing God for hisprovidence in bringing her thither; and refolv-ing to continue there till flie could meet with anoppoitunity to return home into the arms of herdeareft Alanfon: and the old couple, havingunderdone! her hiftcry more fully,- by their pityand commiferation, made her abode with, themmore eafy ; and the communion fhe had withthem, in the things cf another world, weaned- THE FRENCH CONVERT. 63i her from this in a great mcafure. So that here! fne took up her abode, and continued with them1 not only that winter, but the year following,! until fhe was found out by her beloved Alanfon;to whom it is time that we non return.The Count Alanfon having tarried at thecamp a whole month, after the receiving ot his, fatuer-in-law’s letter, in expectation of feeinghis dearell Deidamia, began now to be impati¬ent of-tarrying any longer ; and indeed, duringall that time, he was fo much changed in his; carriage, humour, and converfation, that allthole, with whom he ufed to converfe in thecamp, took notice of it, he having abandonedhitnfelf to an extreme melanchol)'; therefore de-liring of the king to go hotne, both for the re-: covery of his health, and for fettling fome affairsi in his family, he eaiily obtained it; and foon af¬ter, though with a heavy heart, arrived there:where his firlt bufinefs was to enquire alter Dei-damia ; but none of the fervants could give anyaccount of her, but Fronovius and Ar^onio, whogave him the fame account that had been febtl him by his father-in-law : after which he ftern-; ly alked them, ‘ How they durft difpofe of theirlady and millrefs, contrary to her will, withouthis confent or knowledge?’ telling them, ‘He1 feared, by’the note fhe had written, it was theirI treachery that was the occasion of her lofs;■ which, if he Could be but confirmed in, he would1 take care they (hould receive a punilhment, fuit-able to the greatnefs of their crimes.’ Atwhich Fronovius and Antonio began to tremble,and make the heft excufes for themfelves theycould; alledging the confent of her parents forwhat they did. But that did not at all fatisfyAlanfon, who foon difcharged them from hisF a fer-64 THE FRENCH CONVERT.fervice, and refolved to travel in fearch of Dei-damin, though he knew not which way to bendId’s courfe : But after many a tedious journey,enquiring amongft thofe who were favourers ofHugonots, he could hear no tidings of her; fothat, full of grief and forrow. he led a retiredmelancholy life in his own houfe, abfenting him-felf from ail company, and mourning like a tur¬tle that bad loti her mate, though his friends,by all means pofTible, endeavoured to comforthim; perfuading him to furceafe his grief, forthat it was probable, Eeidamia by feme misfor¬tune or other rvas dead; and therefore they ad-vifed him to think of a fecond marriage, as thatwhich would reftore his former gaiety, andmake him forget Deidamia. But the more theyendeavoured to perfuade him, the more he wasrefolved to the contrary; and therefore, to a-void their continued importunities, he iixed hisrefolution once more to travel in quell of her ;which accordingly he did, but without luccefs jand therefore he refolved to return again to hisown houfe, and there fpend the remainder of hisdays in folitude.But as he was returning heme, in his way,he met with a vail ccncourfe of people, and de¬manding the occafion of it, he was told a crimi¬nal was going to be broken on the wheel, for amurder he had committed; upon which, curio-fity led him to fee the execution ; and gettingpretty near, the malefactor call his eyes uponhim, and ftraightway knew him to be Alanfon,the hufoand of Deidamia; and being fmittenwith remorfe of conference, he beckoned Alan¬fon to come near, and humbly begged his par¬don for the wrong he had done him—At thisAlanfon, both flatted and fell a trembling, fear-THE FRENCH CONVERT. 6<;ing it vras for her tmuder the criminal vras to1 die : but coming nearer, the xnalefa&or aikerlhim, ‘ If he had heard any news of his lad}'?’and then, in tears confefi’ed, 4 That himfelf andanother had been hired to murder her, to whichend, they carried her into a great wood, (whichhe named to him) but, by a miraculous provi¬dence, fhe t leaped out of their hands j that af¬terwards he had reported to thofe that fet himto work, that he had actually murdeied her:i for which he received the reward, but whichway fhe efcaped, he knew not; and that thiswas about two years finced The Count urgedhim to tell the names of thofe that had fo hiredhim ; but he faid, ‘ He had fworn upon the ho¬ly-facrament of the altar never to diiclofe them:i and that he feared damnation if he fhould: 0*dyrfaid he, this I may fay, without breaking my; oath, they were two perfons in whom you haveput a great deal of confidence.’ And then fo-lemnly attefted, * That what he faid was thei truth and foon after was executed.This dying criminal’s confeffion confirmedAlanfon, that Deidamia had been treacherouflycarried thither, either from his houfe or thenunnery ; and he no longer doubted that Frono-vius and Antonio were the perfons that had hir¬ed villains to murder her; and therefore, tho’they had been removed from his fervice fome■ i time, yet he was refolved to purfue them, inI order to bring them to juftice : but firfl: he in¬tended to make a frefii fearch after Deidamia,the criminal having given him an account where, fhe efcaped from them; and therefore he thought,if fhe was Hill alive, file might be fomewhere in■| the vicinity of the wood: towards that, there-;i fore he bended his courfe ; and being arrived inF 3 fight<56 THE FRENCH CONVERT.fight thereof, and feeing how vail it was, heperceived it wonld be a difficult thing to findher, even though fhe was there ; yet, at his en¬tering in, be conceived feme hopes in his mind,that he fliould not loofc his labour. Whereup¬on alighting, and giving his horfe to his fervant,(who had attended him in all his melancholy tra¬vels) and charging him to attend there till hecame back, he went into the wood alone, andfound himfelf entangled among!! thickets, bri¬ars, and bulhes : yet ilill he went on, learchingevery cave and folitary place, often calling out,Deidamia ! till darknefs coming on, made himthink of returning to his man but he found hewas gone too far to retreat back in time, andtherefore refolved to go forward : and being, nodonkt, guided by providence, he happened uponthat cave where Deidamia had fo often bewail¬ed his abfence, and mourned her own folitaryitate; and there he relied his weary and tiredbody for that night, refolving to purfue hisfearch the next morning ; which being come,juft as he was going out of the cave, he perceiv¬ed fomething fparkle very brightly on theground, which he took up; and looking on itin the open light, he found it to be a locket ofdiamonds which he had formerly given Deida-mia, and ifie unwittingly had dropt there. Thefinding of this, filled him with fome tranfportsof joy, as looking upon it as an earneft of hisgood'fuccefs in finding the owner: thereupon heoften, repeated her name very loud, but couldreceive no anfwer but by fome broken echoes,and therefore went on he knew not whither;but being direfled by the fame providence thatbad conducted her to the cave, when he had■wandered fo far1 that he was almcft hopelefs, hewaaTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 67was fuddenly fet upon by two whiffling curs*which upon offering to draw his fword, ran a-way barking from him; which he ptnfuing,canie in a little time, to a path, where he coulddifcern the footffeps of human creatures, whichvery much revived his hopes, aftd encouragedhim ftill to go on. He had not gone far, beforehe difeerned fmoke to iffue from a fmall cot¬tage; to which, as he approached nearer andnearer, he was again faluted by the furiousbarking of thofe dogs whom he had before pur-fued. This was the cottage where Deidamiarefided; who, upon the barking of the dogs,looking out to fee what was the matter, efpiedAlanfon coming towards her, and (the idea ofhis image being continually in her breaft) fhe nofooner faw, but knew him, and, running intohis arms in an excefs of joy, was only able tocry out, ‘ Ah I my dear Lord Alanfonbutexcefs of joy proves fometimes fatal; and it hadlike to have done £0 to Deidanrbi, for fhe im-1 mediately fwooned away in his arms. The dogsflill continuing their barking, which alfo caufedthe good old woman of tf e cottage, to fee whatthe caufe was. She wa^ - .tremely fuiprifed tofee a genteel ftranger there, and Deidamia faint¬ing in hie arms ; h wever, fhe made what haflefire could, to endeavour her recovery, defilingAlanfon to bring her into the houfe; which heimmediately did, telling the good woman, thathe was Deidamia’s hufband, which {he (beingvery well acquainted with Deidamia’s flory)was very glad to hear. It was a confiderabletime, before Deidamia could be brought to lier-felf; which fo much affli&ed the County thathe was almofl ready to faint away himfelf. But?his lady being again recovered, Alanfon, witha thou-6& THE FRENCH CONVERT.a thoufand kifles and endearing expreflions, af-jlured tier of the truth, reality, and contlancy ofhis afFeftions towards her'; whilft the, on the 1other liand, feemed to be the moft fatisfied crea¬ture in the world, in that Ihe had once morefeen her deareft Lord Alanfoii; deiiring him notto be troubled at her fainting away', lince it wasonly occafioned by the excefs of joy fhe conceiv¬ed in feeing him again; and that death itfelfwould have been eafy to her upon fo happy anoccafion ; and efpeciaily dying in his arms.WhiHl in this manner they were expreffingthe ardency of their affcdtions to each other,the good man of the licufe came home, and be¬ing told by Itis rvife, that Deidamia’s hulband %was there, he was overjoy'ed; and courteoufly tfaluted Alanfon, tcdling him, * He was fure, he "was a welcome man there to them all; but ef-pecially to Deidamia, who had long mournedhis ablence.* Alanfon kindly thanked him, and< told him, he ffould ever honour him as the re¬fuge and preferver of his dear lady. And, alterfuch civilities on each fide paffed, the good wo- ,man fet before him, f',f'h homely refrefliment asfire had prepared, on e table : Alanfon ate butlittle, Deidamia’s pretence being more to himthan all the dainties in the t.'orld; yet perceiv¬ing with what coarfe fare his lady had beenthere contented, he piaifed her humility, andwondered at her virtue. Dinner being ended,Alanfon was concerned for his fervant, whomhe had left in the entrance of the wood, andwould have gone back to him; but the good oldman would by no means let him, telling him hewould go himfelf, becaufe he better knew theway, and could more eafily find it; and fo, tak¬ing his dogs aloag with him, he went according-THE FRENCH CONVERT. 69,ly : the man having waited at the entrance ofthe wood, from the time that his maHer wentinto it, till the next morning, and hearmg no¬thing of him, leaving his hoifes in the fields ad¬joining to the wood, rtfolved to find him out;and having got a good way, he met the old gen¬tleman, who was coming to him ; and ei qi iringof him for for his mafter, whom he defciibed;he told him,*he had both feen, and was tomefrom him, to conduft him wheie he was, andthat he had found Ins lady; at this, the fervantwas very glad, and joyfully went along with him.After the old gentleman was gone for the fervant,the Count and his lady went into the woods, andthere fhe gave him a particular account of allher foriows and fufferings fince his departingfrom her, and the rea on of her flaying wherefhe was; v.x. The old gentleman not daring togo out of the wood with liei, he being a pro-fcribed peifon; and to go without him, was toendanger her own life; belides, fhe knew notihow Antonio might have orcered matters, hav¬ing the pretence of herefy to lay to her tharpe ;and rhat, hearing nothing of him in ail this time,i {he thought his affections might have been ef-tranged from her. But Alanfon sfiured her of1 the contrary, telling her, he could not but won-f der at the unparalleled villainy of Fronoviusf and Antonio, and that he had turned them out■ of his fervice, foon after he came home fromthe camp. After which, the old gentleman andAlanfon’s fervant, being (as before related) ar¬rived at the cottage, the evening was far fpentjand fo they all betook themfelves to reft.The next morning, Alanfon was preparingfor his return home; hut, before they went,; their aged landlord would need have them flayand70 THE FRENCH CONVERT.and dine; and, in difcourfe, told him, He was •once a tenant of his father’s ; but, by cri^el e« •uiels, was forced not only to leave that farm, jbut his paternal inheritance ; fullering the fpotis j;and lofs of al!, for the fake of Cnrifl and a good |Econfcience; and in this folitary retirement, had J1enjoyed more tine peace and f tisfadfion, than rin all the pleafure of his forepaft life. The jCount then aiked him his name ? vvhich he Ipid ' ■him was De la Mont; upon which he prefentlyknew and embraced him, faying, ‘ That tho’himfelf was of the Romith perfuafion, yet he ;had often pitied his futferings; adding. That it [was given out, he died in prifon.’ The piousDeidamia, from this difcourfe, took an occafionto fay, ‘ Ah ! my deareft Lord, you fee what acruel and mercilefs religion it is that you pro-fefs, and which, through the gocdnels of God,I have lately departed from.’ ‘ I am not fur-priied (laid AlanFon) at that, which you fay ;for I was informed in Flanders, that you hadchanged your religion.’ ‘ 1 wilh to God (repli¬ed Deidamia) that yburfclf my deareli Lord,was likevvife made a partaker of the fame happychange.’ Upon this, Mont. Dc la Mont put in,and laid down fuch weighty reafons for thetruth of the reformed religion, and againlt theerrors of the church of Rome, that it encourag¬ed Deidamia faither to go on, and fliew the vi-cioulnefs and debauchery of the Romifli clergy,their bloody principles, and perfeeming fpirit jfo that Alaufon was forced to confefs, that whatwas alledged againll their practices was true;but as to their principles (abating that of perfe-cution) he believed they might be miflaken:Upon which Deidamia replied, ‘ I am glad, mydear Lord, to find you are againit perfecution;1 hopeTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 71I hope then you will be willing I (hall enjoy theiliberty of my confcience, the only-happinefs Iihave had in this folitary retirement; and that■you will never go about to compel me to go toimafs, which I will rather chufc to die than do.’iTo this Alanfon replied, ‘ That he was no fuch1 bigot, as to think that thole that fincerely wor-llhipped God, according'to the b^ft of their un-derftanding, as he was confident Deidamia did,1 might not be accepted of him; though of an opi-inion different from himfeif: And as to compel her• to go to maF, if by arguments he could notiperfuade her to it, he folemnly promifed, he ne¬ver would ufe any other means.’And being now ready to depart, Alanfon of¬fered La Mont (lore of gold for their kindnefs• to his lady, while fhe had been with them;'which he abfolutely refufed, faying, ‘ Her con-• verfation had been fo agreeable, that they wereThe perfons who had been obliged.’ So that,• leave living taken, and La Mont praying, that.God would go along with them, and make their1 way profperous, they parted: and coming out!of the wood, the fervant readily found the hor-fes; and. Deidamia getting up behind her Lord,they made the bell of their way towards Alan-fon’s houfe; where they were received with thei1 rejoicing of their acquaintance, and much morellof her parents, to whom, in a day or two, they; made a vifit; Deidamia being received by themI1 as one rifen from the dead. And the flory oftheir daughter’s troubles being ell related tothem, they could not but admire the providencecf God in preferving her, and wonder at theJmonftrous wickednefs of Fronovius and Anto¬nio, who, upon their hearing of the confeffionof the dying criminal, had withdrawn themfelvesfrom72 THE FRENCH CONVERT.from their former refidences. And Antonio(the better to efcape deferved punifliment for ‘his luftful attempts up >n Deidamia’s challity) ‘went privately to the biftiop of Rheirns, and 1told him that Count Almfon’s lady was de¬praved with herefy; in which fhe was fo muchcountenanced by her Lord, that himfelf for en.deavonrincr to reclaim her, was turned out ofthe family, and cut off from all intereft in it,and therefore came humbly to beg his protec¬tion, againfl fo powerful an adverfary; fincewhat he had done, was only out of zeal to pro¬mote the catholic religion. The bifliop receiv¬ed him into his protection, and writ a fharp let¬ter to the Count about it; who having receivedit, believed it was done by the mitigation ofAnton'o,- whom he heard he had entertained ;an i being troubled that fo great a villain (liouldfind any countenance from the bilhop, he wrotebark again to know the names of thofe that hadfo injunoufly informed him again!! his lady;but the bilhop would not gratify him fo far inIns defires This made the Count return him afecond letter, written in a more angry ftyle,declaring, ‘ That, if he could not have jullicefrom him, the king himfelf Ihould be acquaint¬ed with it, and by him he would feek redrefs.’This fo nettled the bifliop, that he flnt exami¬ners to his lady to interrogate her about her re¬ligion ; of which the Count having fome inti¬mation, fent her to her parents, who be ng ex¬tremely troubled at thefe frelh misfortunes, andmightily fcandalized at the villainy of Antonio,and the bilhop’s protecting him from jultice,grew thereupon very cold in the profcffion ofthe Popifli religion; which fo funoufly perle-cuted innocence and virtue, and countenancedthe1THE FRENCH CONVERT. 73jjthe greateft wickednefs: This the pious Deida-Imia w ifely improved, and fo efFeclually wroughtI with them, by her warm and zealous difcourfes,that through the operation of God’s holy Spirit,adiiting her, they were both brought over tothe embracing of the truth.The biihop’s examiners being difappointed,returned back without their errand; upon whichtiie bifhop threatened to excommunicate both A**lanfon and his family; and was foon after asgood as his word. Upon this Alanfon polls a-way to the king, who was then at Marley,1 where he complained of the injury done him by! the bifhop of Rheims, both hi excommunicatingcbim, and prote&ing a -villainous criminal fromill j uft ice. But it teems the bilhop had been be-S fore-hand with him, and made his complaintfirlt. For the king received him very coldly ;and told him, the bilhop of Rheims was a goodI man, and he left his bufinefs wholly to him.On which Alanfon returned home much difcon-tented, and found that in his ^bfence frelh fearchhad been made in his houfe for his lady, though%without fuccefs. Then he went to the bilhophimfelf, and boldly charged him, with entertain¬ing a wicked perfon to the prejudice of his hon¬our ; telling him who he was, and declared hiscrimes, defiring he might be brought forth, andhis lady Ihould appear. But the bilhop refufmgthis, and telling him, his lady was accufed of: herefy, and he of countenancing it. The Counti in a kind of holy anger, told him, ‘ That reli-[ gion could not be of God, which encouraged' villainy, and fought the dellru&ion of them that" were virtuous.’ At this the bilhop llormed,I: and told him, ‘ That he Ibould be anfwered inanother manner.’ And foon after, he had fe-G cret74 THE FRENCH CONVERT.cret notice from court, * That upon a fretli com¬plaint of the bifhop’s, both he and his lady wereprofcribed as Hugonots; and that, notwithltandinghis friends’ interceffion and his own former merits,his places were taken away, and his eftate or«dered to be feized, as a terror to others.’ Alan-fon, finding himfelf unable to withftand thisftorro, packed up the richeft of his effe&s, andprivately fent them to his wife’s father, wherefhe was all this while concealed, and then fol¬lowed after himfelf: Where, having declaredthe great injuflice he had met withal, contraryto all religion, honour, honefty and confidence,he then told his relations, he was refolved, byGod’s help, to embrace that religion, for whichhe had been a fufferer, before he was a profef.for; ‘ For that religion could not be of God,that did fo evidently fet up the kingdom of thedevil.’ At which they all rejoiced, and Deida- 'mia more efpecially; who pafiionately embrac¬ing him, faid, ‘ Her father and mother were ofthe fame mind with himAt which, Alanfonwas the more encouraged. But, left their ad-verfaries ftiould come thither to fearch for them,they withdrew into a fmall village, and livedobfeurely, while La Mont could hear of a con-vement vefiel to tranfport them into a country,where they might enjoy more liberty.You have before heard how Bernard the Gar¬dener, was fold to the mafter of a fhip, belong¬ing to one of the French plantations in the WeftIndies; before we conclude, we will brieflyIhew how God’s providence watched over himfor good alfo. In his voyage at fea, they metwith fo extraordinary a ftorm, that all expe£tedprefent death ; but Bernard was very calm, put¬ting up his fervant prayer, to Almighty God,whichTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 75f which was followed by a very great ferenity1 and calmnefs. This made the mafter have a! refpect for him, and oftentimes difcourfe withi him ; his behaviour being always fober, and his1 difcourfe favoury. The mafter having made hisvoyage, fold Bernard for a Have, and havingi ftaid there about two months, returned again toFrance v but the difcourfes and behaviour ofBernard, had made fo deep an imprefikm in his: mind, that he was greatly troubled for havingI fold him ; infomuch that he could net reft, until■J he had taken a folemn refolution, the next voy¬age he made, to bring him back; and accord-i iogly, the pext year making another voyage thi¬ther, he made it his bufinefs to enquire after him;ill and, having found him, alked if he was willingi to have his liberty, and return to his own coun-» try: Bernard replied, he never way in love withI flaeery; but was contented under it, whilftGod’s providence ordered it fo; but, it he! might have his liberty, he would chufe it ra¬ther. Whereupon the mafter paid his rantom.I and brought him back to France ; nor was he alofer by it; for, as a recompence for his kind-nefs, it pleafed God to make Bernard an initru*ment, to open his eyes, and bring him to theacknowledgement of the truth. Bernard beinggot again into his own country, made it hiswhole bufinefs to enquire after the welfare ofAlanfon’s family, and, being told of the fufter-ings that had lately befallen them, he was ex¬tremely grieved; though at the fame time, hecould toot but rejoice, that they fuffered in fogood a caufe. And, fpeaking of them to fomeof his old Chriftian friends, he was told by oneof them, that both the Count and his lady livedobfeurely and in difguife in the neighbouringG 2 vil~^ 6 THE FRENCH CONVERT.village, and that, if he had a mind to fee them,he wotild give him a note to the gentleman ofthe houfe, upon which he fhould have admit*tance to them ; or otherwife, they would not befpoken with by any one. Bernard gladly accep¬ted of his friend’s kindnefs, and llraightwaywent to the houfe, ant^ delivered the gentlemanthe note; the purport of which was this, * lhathe had known the bearer many years, for afaithful frierd and brother, and that he had beenformerly a fervant of the Count Alanfon’s, andhad a great defire to fee his lady; which hemjght fafely let him do.’Upon reading this note, the gentleman defiredhim to come in, and fent up one of his fervantsto acquaint Deidamia, there was one below de¬fined to fpeak with her; upon which Bernardwas prefently called up.Deidamia VTas mightily furprifed to fee Ber¬nard, whom fhe thought fhe would never havefeen more, and very much rejoiced at it; intro¬ducing him to her Lord, and afterwards to herparents, who all made very much of him, andwere glad to fee him. And, having communi¬cated the various providences of God to one a-nother, fince they had been parted, they all blef*fed the Lcrd for his gcodnefs and for his won¬derful works to the children of men; and after-wards confulted how to procure a velTel to con¬vey them out of danger. <Bernard gave them an account, that the maf-ter of the veffel which brought him back toFrance, was alfo converted; and that now hisveffcl lay ready to fail for; Dejimark; and he■was fure he would be glad! to ferve them. Tothis; they all agreed; and thereupon Bernardwent immediately to the mailer of the fhip, whore a-THE FRENCH CONVERT. 771! readily confented to carry them, and orderedtheir gpods to be brought prefently, and them-felves to come aboard at midnight; at whichtime, Bernard ccndu&ed them to the fhip, andthen went aboard with them, in quality of theirfervant; and fooo after, the wind ferving, theyfet fail for Denmark; where, being arrived, andtarrying a few days, they hired a Dutch veffeito carry them to Rotterdam ; and from thencethey went by boat to Utrecht; which being apleafant place, and a very good air, they rsfolv-ed to fettle there.Thus, courteous reader, thou haft heard a brief,but true relation of the mercy and goodnefs ofGod to that noble family, which is the fubjeft ofi this narrative and he that reads it ferioufly thror-out, will find caufe to make the fame obfevva-tions that David did of old; ‘ Mark the perfectman, and behold the upright, for the end ofthat man is peace;’ which the apoftle St. Jamesfarther examplifies in his epiflle ; ‘ You haveheard of the patience of Job, and have feen theend of the Lord, how he is very pitiful, and oftender ipercy.’ Here you have feen the greatdiftrefs of Deidamia; and here you have feenthe goodnefs of God in her deliverance. Hereyou have feen the Count Alanfon, rifled of allhis eftates and poflefiions; and here you havefeen how God has gracioufly made it up, in giv¬ing him that faith which is far more preciousthan the gold which periftieth. But, I cannot con¬clude, without giving you an account of thejudgement of God upon Frouovius and Anto¬nio, that others may fear and give glory to God.Fronovius, after the feizure of Alanfon’s ef-tate, and his departure into Holland, returnedinto thofe parts; but, finding himfclf hated by73 THE FRENCH CONVERT,all men for his villainy, he retired into Nor*rnandy ; where, folicitingj his landlord’s, daugh¬ter to yield to his luft, and Ihe refufing it, hetook an opportunity to ravilh her; for whichhe was hanged without the gates of Roan.And, as for Antonio, tho’ he efcaped the juf-tice of man, he could not efcape the judgementof God; for, failing diilra&ed a little time after,he confelTed it was God’s judgement upon him,for the mifehief he had wrought againtf his lordAlanfon, and his virtuous lady ; faying, ‘ Theyhad taken a way to be faved, but be was fure tobe damned;’ and fo dalhing out his own brainsagainll a wall, be died miferably; Both of themverifying the words of the infpired penman;* Is not deflruiSfion to the wicked, and a llrange 'puniihment to the workers of iniquity ?’THE END.A BRIEF( 79 ),, : • MA BRIEFACCOUNTOF THE PRESENT'PERSECUTIONS| , 3 . - / . ■ ■O F T H EFRENCH PROTESTANTS.THE rtfllefs malice of the great enemy ofmankind againft the church of God hasbeen fufficiently manifefled in all ages of theI world ; and began to exert itfelf firft of all in| Cain, who killed his brother Abel, becaufe hisI own deeds were wicked, and his brother’s righ-i teous; as the holy fcriptures inform us: Andi it has been his frequent pradlice, when he couldinot withdraw the people of Gcd, from the pro-feflion of the truth, by the bait of veorldly ad¬vantage, to raife a .flood of perfecution againltthem, by that -means to extirpate them, if itwere poffible, out of the earth-; of which nopeople in Europe have, in this age, had morefatal8o THE FRENCH CONVERT,fatal experience, than the poor Proteftants inPrance, who have been fo barbaroufly ufed bythe b|ood thirlty Papifts there, that a true ac¬count of their fufferings, will appear to thenext age, rather like romantic fi&ions, than (asindeed they are) realities. There are two thingsin it, that appear alike admirable ; and they arethe barbarous rage and cruelty of the perfecu-tors, and the invincible courage and conftancyof the poor fufferers, who are fo mightily fup-ported by divine grace, that they not only tri¬umph over all their tortures, but fuller joyfullythe lofs of all, as knowing that they have inheaven a better and more enduring fubftance ;But I will recite briefly, feme inftances of theirfufferiogs.Some they condemn to the gallies,. where theyare commonly coupled with the vileft mifere-ants condemned thither, for the moft flagitiouscrimes, whofe fearful oaths and execrations arecontinually wounding their pious ears: Thereare generally five of them placed upon everyform, fettered with a heavy chain of about tenor twelve foot long : They lhave their headsfrom time to time, to fhew they are Haves, andare not allowed to Wear their hats or perriwigs:They have only beans, and nothing elfe for theirfood, with about fourteen ounces of ccarfebread a-day, and no wine at all. They are de¬voured in winter by lice, and in the fummer byTHE FRENCH CONVERT. 81bugs and fleas ; and forced to ]y upon one ano-| ther as hogs in a fly; and every day threatened: and tormented by friars and priefls, who not be¬ing able to convince them by reafon, think todo it by feverity.Some are put in prifon, and kept in naftydungtons and holes, full of mire and dirt, with¬out any bed, or fo much as ffraw to lie upon,|« and not fuffered to have the leaf! glimmering|ij cf the fun, or the light of a canfle ; and allow-I ed fo fmall a quantity of victuals as'is hardlyl fufficient to keep them alive. In this miferablef! cafe, without any pity to them, fome hare beenfl kept above a year together. One of them beingf viiited after twelvemonths irrpiifonment, in thist manner, by one called a direftor cf confcier.ce,5 juft as they were, going to bring him his fmaiJ6 allowance, he could not forbear crying cut, asI.foon as he faw him; “Lord! in what a conditionI! are you, fir ?” To which the poor fufferer re-j. plied, with a Civ.iftisn.;fortitude, worthy of thei1* caufe he fuffered for; “ Could you but fee the: fecret pleafure my heart experiences, you wouldthink me too happy.” The prieft told him,“ ’l he greateft fuffeiings did not entitle to theglory of martyrdom-, unlefs he luffered for truthj and juftice.” To this the poor prifoner replied,| “He granted it; but that was his cafe; theHoly Ghoft fo fealed it to his heart, that the ve¬ry thoughts thereof, fupported him in the midflofSz THE FRENCH CONVERT.of all his afflictionsThis perfon has, throughGod’s providence, been lince delivered ; and hasdeclared. That the confolations that God, out ofhis infinite love afforded to him, were fo great,that he little regarded the miferies he was reduc¬ed to, tho’ he continued in that lamentable con- |dition about two and twenty months, withoutchanging his clothes, till his beard was grown aslong as the hair of his head, and his face as paleas a plaiftered wall; he declared alfo, that whenhe was delivered, the number of thofe chained tothe gallies for the fake of religion, was aboutthree hundred and feventy, who glorified God,in their fufferings, with an unparalleled courageand conltancy.FINIS.GLASGOW,PRINTED Ev J. St. M ROBERTSON, (No. 10.)Saltmarket, iSo8.