F'M" 11 l ' 7  1 '•I TFIREE EXCELLENTNew Songs;CALLED “ - -The IRISH WEDDING.The WEE W1FUKIE.Or, this is no ME.4 NEW SONG in Praife'of his "MAJEST1 ’/ FORCES.r~i Printed by T-aimers &. Co. Caftlcfueet Aberdeen( 2 ) VThe IRISH WEDDING.URE did‘m you hear wlrat l oving cheer,1- was fpread at Paddy‘s wedding O,And how fo gay they fpent the day ;from church unto the bedding O.Firft book in hand oSme father ^Juipes, |with the bride‘s dade the bailie O $While the chanter and the merry pipe,ftruck up a lilt fo gaily O,O there was mat and fturdy pat,and merry morgan murphy O;Murlack‘s megs, and churlack‘s fkegs,mcdachlan and dick durphy O.And then the girls drescd up imwhite,led on by dad o‘reily O ;The chanter and the merry pipe,firuck up a lilt fo gaily .O*When pady was alked if his love wad laft,the chancel echoed with laughter O,By my foul fays pat it will do thatto the end of the world and after O.So tenderly he prefled her hand,and fweetly kiflfed h;s lady O ;The chanter and the merry pipe,{truck up a lilt fo gaily O.To dinner there met a roving fet,fo frolickfome and frifky O;Potatoes gilore a fcuddich and more,and a roving bumper of whiflcy O.And then to fee the wipes go round,, at the bride's expence lb freely Q„- ‘ ■ W 1IF   T 3 ! ,i The chanter and the merry pipe,-i ■ fir tick up a lilt fa gaily O-.| And on that night to fee the fight, .fic capering' and f c prancing O ;1 An operas bail wps nothing at all,compart with the frii ofour dancing O.And then to lee old father Quip'es,beat timewhh his (hUlelly O ;The chanter and the merry pipe, • .j • {truck up a lilt fo gaily Q.| And now the 'knot fo ficker they've got,they go to fleep -without rocking CXWhile the brides maids fair fo gay & fo rare,prepare for throwing the flocking O.Dedroea wefcll have fays father pate,and kiffed the bride genteely O ;While the merry pipe to wifij them fun,flruck"up a lilt fo gaily O.I The WEE WIFUKIE.rT"TlERE was a wee bit udfukic,' and Ibe gaed till a fair.She get 2 wee bit drapukie,that coft her meiHe care;It gade about the wifie’s heart,i an’fte was-like to.{pew, .An O ! quo’ the wee wifukie,I wiih I be nae fu’.C H O R U S.I wifh I be naefu’, quo’ {lie,'I wilhj be nae fu%"7 i 4 - —  If Johnny fee me barley-uck,I doubt he‘Jl claw my ikm,I*ll take a wee bit napukie;before that I gae in ;Sae lyia4 down at a dyke-fidetakin* a wee bit nap :By came a paukie packman wi£, &c.wi‘ a wee bit pack.Heclippet a‘ the \vifie‘s locks,that gowden v/ere an‘ lang ?He took her pouch and purfukie,and fail awa he ran. ,The vvifie waken‘d in a fright,her head was light's a flee,And o‘ quo' the wee wifukie _this is no me. Sure this. See.When I was bonny BeiTukie,my locks they were like gowd,I look’d like ony laifukiewhene'er they were cow'd ;Air Johnny was ay telling me,I was right fair to fee;But fomebody‘s been fellin' me,for this is no me. for this, &c.I met with kindly compacie," J biri’d my baubee ;. If! e bonny Beffukiethree pkicks remains vvi* me.She pm her hand down by her fide,to l\- ! gin it was fhe,But neither pouch nor piack fhe had,hae a wee bit hotf'okie.,an’ in’t a kindl« man :^ doggie they ca’ Dofiukie,ii it be me he’ll fawn ;i An’ a’ the bairns about the noufe■ ! .will ken if ihis be me,,But fomebody’s been fell in,’ me,for this is na me, for this, &C-.' The night was catild and dinging wat,an’ wow but it was-mark,!: The little doggie heard a foot)I an’ it began'to bark :i An’ when the doggie barked• kend it was nae Ihe ;p «eel. kens my Dcllukie %that this is no me. that this, Sic.■When Johnny heard his licfiie’s footfail to the door he ran ;'Cry’d come awa my BeflukreI it’s no me goodnvan :iilBe kindly io the bairns a’,an’ well may you be ;are ye well my Johnny lad,for this is no me. for this, Sic.ohn ran to the minifter,his hair it.flood cu end ;1 hae gotten ftc a fright, Sir,I fear I’ll never men'd ;wife’s come hame without a head| cry in’ out moft bitterly,fef'r.s wondrous flange to me,’ To’th;qk a.wjfegvirhout a head ;coo'd erlher fne^k or fee : ■The things, that happen iiereawa’,* are wonse; hul ro-me, |I could amaiit wi’ Befiy fay,’ns neither you nor Uie,. ’tis neither you nor fire, &e , - IV/hen Johnny he came hame again,- his heart was unco’fain, • 1To foe his bonny, BelTukie,corn’d ro.herfel’ again jSitting on a itooiik'ie,an’ Tibbock on her knee ; , ip. Crying come awa’, my Johnny lad,for this is now me, quoth fhe, -for this is now merve got a wee bit nnpokie,an this is now me.'i'h*-n Johnny took her in his arms,his heart vvas uttco gladTo fee.his bonny Befiukie,AUhough you’ve loit your gowden locks,your pouch and purfukie,Come to your bed my Ikffokie, •and Ita^py we lhaljbe, &c.few Song inPraife of his Mnjeay’s ForceMET then our ancient honour fhine,|j Prepare 30 tr arms and form the line» fee the French they did dtfign,o overthrow this nation.{I * t JJ1 • >;fooner die than vye will run,ile we can ftand v/ith fword and gun,.I fight like ancient Britifn fons,ilraging main with blood we’il Itram,((Duke-of York we will maintain.|Hile w&have fliot and pow'der.ifee the Convention did'combine,ppes the victory to obtain,i-rave Lord Howe did them difdain,jiO* Jacobins fupply them j✓ifittle ifle will not comply,:il conquer France or elfe we’ll die,nlame lhall echo thro* the^ky :fly not quit the field,ir enernies do field,egod of war defies them.blefs our fleet where’er they be,>uke of York and his army;would fcheme it particularly,e Cobourgand brave Cflairfay te;.( 8 '.Likewne brsva Hood that’s in our fleet,i\nd all commanders that are difcreet,That’s not afraid their foes to meet.Boldly right for our rights,May our foes be vanquiflr’d quite,God fave our troops and feamen.IGod blefs great George his MajeftyOur fleet and troops by. land and fea.That fights like Britons bold and free,Arid never will diflemble:Rivers of their blood flrall run.For ever they cry we‘re all undone.We have no ftrength to load a gun,Let us fly or elfe we die,Behold the Britilh troops are nigh,That makes us fear and tremble.FINIS.