The First and S^cood PARTS of the NewPROVERBSON THEJRIDE of WOMEN;G R,j!The Vanity of W OMEN Diiplaycd,| With their High Heads, Hoops, and Gezres*To which.'is Added * f "ir Receipt to all T ien who want Wives, how to wafei them by the mouth, as Mungo did his mare.Written btr a TinrlaTT^New "Praverts an the Pride of Women, &c. ,' A 'Voman who has haughty looks, is under that in'feffion of the plague even pride ; fhe i* ignoranO' fdf. and thinks as much as fhe is her own makeralways delpifihg her fellow-creature, as fire was not othe feed ol Adam.2- Her eyes bend always upwards toward the fkieSand in my opinion fueh women come from the workof the moon becaufe they look backwards, toward theijiative.country.3. And flie who Is parton full of pride is empty o'■virtue ; but O how wife in her own eyes is fhe ! eld«quent in fpeech, expert in the law without experience4 He that joins ro fuch a woman, binds himfelf t<:t>e a galley fhve all the days of her life; he muff fighagain ft wind and w.ves. row her to the graves moytidf ihe fink not, for Hie cannot be fold5. Woe’s me-i for many women are .weighed dow-«vith folly, lifted up with vanity, deeply wounded, beine fo in love with themfelves, their hearts ptne awawit ' hatred and furrow, becaufe iheir neighbours ar.exalted above thoni. Jj6; lliis ; 1 foie evil which ckaveth to the daughters'of;Eve, hiaUd -dolm from mother to daughteifrom ore aeueration to another.7 Ah how fooli i'rt ar e many mothers in tram mg utheir daughters in the court of carnality; no kronehave thev got judgement to difeern the right hanu anthe left, but they are carried away to.be taught by mrcbm vanity, the daughter of Lucifer who biihgs the*into the,college of.contradiction, which hands in. thtown of content ion. , .8, And here deacon pr-kle, the proud.prortilor,irflruas them in the a"i titles of Lucifer’s religion, thedoth the principal rufty reafons tc. cirthem the knowledge of carnallity, the bncu ge of Aihdod and fpeecof the infernal legions. . ' . h .o iLere they arc e-ateclufed in all forts of bulking,fuch is painting of the face, plating of the hair, ankilting their petticoats to the rump.( .3 ') , .xo. Come all ye dumb brutes, cats, dogs and other(creatures, and behold a tooltlh people walking on the1 lanh as th?y were.not ol the earth, flecking their ho¬lies with br.itts and their bellies with beef and yet yourough fkio, feem as comely in your kinds, andinto e obedient to your maker and mafter than they.11 - _ Come, come ye lillies of the field, and roles otithe garden-, and behold how queenr, princeffcs, andjc unrefles are conterfeited by poor clipfarts of vanity,ig-ing to chtM-ch with the robes of unrightemifnefsiround their lumple, w’ith a difplayed banner of paintedrhvpocrify in their right hand, to guard their faces from^the (un : Q but the lilies outfiiine the lades for beauty jdowls hide their faces from the beams of the fun, as ifdtheic faces were of fiih, and their hides hinds tongue :jthey abhor the bright biink thereof as a cat does-multardi 12. Many of thefe women are more dangerous thanIthe mouth of devouring cannons : though they appear|as angels in the church, they are as ferpents in the iheetsland a.Bclzebub above the blankets woes the man that' marries fuch. a woman, he had better be wedded to his -i ftaff and go to bed and the beetle in his bofom,CHAP II,.. T T E that gets a ftohling wife, and a mortifying*I goodmother, had. far better be buried alive foe1 the one will cry him deaf, and the other will wafte hisTmooey and his meat, fail his belly with wind, and his| heart with forrow*, till with hunger and anger he’ll diei a double death every day.I 2 He that marries a gentle wife without a weighty•j purle of gold or a good poition, binds himfelf to be his! lady’s page, bis own fervant, captain clout’s coachmant and Mr poverty’s po :hion all the days of his life.I j. The care of fuch a woman is to clothe her. anti-n quity, if her hulband fhould go naked, fhe laboureth•i with her tongue not with her hands, deferibing the ge-li nealogy of her forci^thers, the gentlenefs of hex blooti( 4 )and of he hufband’s defeenr, who never came to hnour and poverty till he came to her4- He that weds for money is a mifer, and he fceauty a fool ,• but he that for virtue and the other tvtis wiler than the weaver who took a wife and wornhave nothing, becaufe he had nothing of his own.5 And the reafon was, becaufc his wife might faiI made thee rich with my tocher, when thou hadthing but thy T-o—a-—_1.6. He that marries a widow for her pelf, had bettflmarry a whore if (he be handfome and wholefome, fcthe widow will be-tipbraiding him-with the wealth anp ealurd ihe had with her former hulband, who waalways the beft, becaufe he is gone.7* Whereas the whore will be afliamed to fpeak oher former pleafures, becaufe they were ftoln, fmuggled and unlawful ; but rather Ihe will rejoice, loveand eHeem thee when (he enjoys the fame without fearfcandal, fhame or reproach.8. He that marries a widow, let it be one who, had ihufband that gave her blows in every fide of the breakfaff, who was hanged for knocking out tke brains of himother, and playing the whore with another womanthat (he may have to fay flie had^got the belt hufbancto her lafl, and if thou be not Co thou art a poor wretcli’ll-vearrcm you,GAAP. HI;t T is moft natural for every fe« to have a defire tb*wards its fellow, and without the company of eachother, they have no mutual happinefs2. It is not necefiary for ti ee, O tpan ! who is re-folved to join tlvyfelf to a wife, that thou join thy houletogether fir ft, by a mathematical order, the coupesand the camfoiling thereof, cover it above and plemlhit below.3. Go to the birds, and be not blind folded, who buildtheir nefls, lay, their eggs before they hatch their young,ij be not fo foolifli as to have a child before you hare ai wife, nor a wife before you haveahoufe to«old her in.:i 4 Stuff thy houfe with all manner of furniture ne«l etfftry for the family, marry a wife in the puddingij month, and thou fhalt have vvarmnefs all the winter.I 5. Beware of running too faft left you come too far| for the fair fex have Ihort heels, and often fail back-rt ward when hearing the voice of wedlock, fwooning a-; way for joy of a relief long looked for ; behold them•1 not when they turn up their ten toes, left thou fall in-I to the trap from whence there is no returning, withoutj committing great wickednefs.i 6 But when thou goes to court a woman, wale hert by the^jnoutli, as Mungo did his mare; for by her wordsji ye 1 ay know whether ihe be a wife woman or a fool.7. If flie be poor, proud, and pndfu’, turn the backf of your hand to her. and your face to another;, for Theiis the worft pennyworth ever. c<*mc in a poor man'sipack iheet yea happy is he that goes home with thei toom half ter without her.8. But if thou chance to admire the charms of oneawho is black and lovely, decent and difereet, honeft4»nd virtuous, though never fo poor, cleave thou unto-1 her by all means, for-fuch a woman will hold thee as,|her head and hufband, then fhalt thou reign as a kinglover thy own houfe, and all thy family lhall be fubjedlsJunto theej 9 For if thou marry one that thinks herfelf wifernthvix) thee, {he .‘'ill ulurp thy authority,.,countermand‘1*1'Y orders, and hold thee more like her. monky, thandirer man and mafter.I 10 Keep not pr,vue, company with a woman that is.* 8real fit-uefi nor a giil that h«s a game keek, for tlje|roiiiiig ot the eyes, and IweetneA of the voice, encour-rage men to commit yon,I ix. l ake not a wife that is tear minded, for fuch1 (commonly are tail ready, loon angry, foon pleated eafyjjperfuaded. to any thing ; if a temptation affaults her fhewill be Toon overcome, even ta hornify your head, 6lfuch are of have loofes children. •12. Neither do ye encounter with one who hatlr:-big belly, and a bcfom full of paps' for fuch are fel-dom wholefome; nor one wrlto is too tall, for fuch lonjpeople when they fall are too heavy to rife ; but th<heft way under the fun is to marry and to continue-look back to dirty maidens and fo give them the fcornful catelogue as follows :13. O ye haughty maids ! fcorn my proverbs and Hfcorn your pride, figh for a man when it is too late, amfend for him when he will not come ; your long iiyouth is, / am o\ r yuong to marry yet, until the wrinkits rife on your face like the back of a ram’s hornand' have but one tooth bound in with a rag, then maka chanter of your thumb, and di ones of your long fingersi and play, Fain -would I marry a man juft no-w I vlojl m’’ time and lover too.14. And here I fhalt be filent for a fhort time, thesfhal! I vex vanity once more, let one fay I am a rattlefcull, another he is jumbled in his judgment, or difhirbed in his fludies, fo I make an end, left they fay I anbecome a preacher, and every trade is encroaching upoanother ; now he that wonders at my folly, 1 11 wondeat his wifdom; then are we even one with another.PART IV, ‘COme, O men, and minifters, behold mad men an?foolifh ' omen, rulhing into the bonds of wedlocas the horfe into the battle.1 . No ho, no h i ling back, but John blooth anMaggy Idle nmft be married even becaufe they havno means bu meannefs, no tocher but r-c-«-ls, no wbut wickednefs, no wealth bnt wanton folly, and poopride is all their p-ff ffion, antiquity only excepted.3. For he is the honourable taird of Sluggarfieldfsn, and fhe is the daughter of Slip-my-dark.... .. :4 Behold be go«h with his garters unbound, and big'lorom bare, and both his hands holding his breecees.5 Up gets Maggy in the morning againft the hour ofiine, weither it be day light or not, but not withouthe power of a piercer, for flic covers herfeif with herMetticoat, and runs to the dung hill as a foldier to hisirms, when alarmed by the drum■ .6 This is :he charadber of two , which may be multi-died into tnillions, two by two, th,tt fall into miefery>y matrimony, and are deadly wounded by the ptagueif poverty, for want of vinous proceedings in them-‘ elyes.7 1 beir great care is once to be firmly married, andihen all their care is drowned in the Heep of luff, andcyihen they awake, the low of a calf love is quite out ;■ hen they look up, when their eyes are opened, andSeeing themfelves fhocked with wordly cares, alrr.ofti naked, and next to noihing.8 Now muft they work or want, their belly wageswar againfi: them, their back and bed muft be cloathed 5ftheir children alfo come upon them thick thick, if not[ threefold‘ 9 Then fays the hufoand, What have I done ? 1 workhard all the day to myielf, and gets no wages, my bdiyis never filled with biead ; but O my heart is alwayslike to. break with forrow.to. O had I (till been the fetvant of another manithen had I got my daily bread and weekly wages ; but, now I have loft good bread and great pleafure, and Qihut her beef be a weighty burden on meii Letnevermau wale his his wife at the kb k doornor pick up a painted image in a marked as I have dune,Ito my deadly danger’h; 12 Her bufks are turned into miferable brats, in ftead’ of painting ob her face, a Hugh of dung which is thefign of a faplefs crircafe,occaficn!dby the fcarcety of fcouds, and Icantnefs of pottageI ,•> 13 O'miferable and wicked alteration f occafionei! thiough fond love and forewatd kindnefs. /14* What can be worfe in a houfe than a horned^oottwife, and hammi! goodtnan. alinged cat, and burntlhaving nothing elfe bLit difpeace and a poem’s por¬tion, which is perfect poverty.15 Here the goodwife’s tongue is the law and thetongs the feepter of her fuprenrncy, the children hon4our the father as-a cur doth a cow from a kail yard.The wife with a whiPpering voice calls him a cuckold,and all her children may fay Amen, our Mvrher’s a?whore. .16. And this isdhe^veeteft of all mufic in the ears!of old Nick, when the goodwife’s paffion like a flime,,ofeflks out againft her hulhand-, and he with viciausblc^ifcnd impious rage gives her a double down comewhichTsihpommonly called next to murder, if not Po.17. Now are’the flames of fleflily love quenched, andtheh charity towards oae another become as cold asthe clay, their former love is fmothered to death in thef noke of their hellilh wrath, and pride is fallen into thebdttomlefs pit, the place Prom whence it came, that alltheir highlieads, and 'Gczies are fallen.Advertifcment. Oyez, Oyez, Oyez.BE it known to all’poor, proud and pitiful people,that they may mourn till the foiiow mend them ;for deacon pride, the devil’s dominie, who has fallenfrom the top’ of the high tower of vanity, into the deepditch of dil'grace ; his cloathing bdng of Poft butterjhas licked up all the mots of mH'ery, diPdain on theonefide and drfgrace oh the bther ; fhanie and reproach be*fore him, and. behind him a tribe of boys, biffing at hisbuttocks becaufe they were h ireAnd it is hoped by me and many others, th :t hefinall never htivp confidence to fet up his daft like faceatnongfHt' we$ well thinking people any more in thiscountry j^orVe of the Tinclarion left will pppofc bl*doA‘itJe, and Pend the dominie to his diretfkor.F 4 N I S.