THEMaffacre of Glenco.In a Letter from a Gentlemen in Edinburghto his Friend in London.Giving a particular account of that unpre¬cedented tranfaction, wherein orders weregiven that all the Males of the M‘Donaldsin that (kftrid under 70 fhould be put tothe Sword, in which 38 perfons were killedin cold blood, moll of them in their bed,900 Cows, 200 Horfes, and a great manySheep and goats were carried off to theGarrifon at Iverlochy, together with theextreme mifery, and death, of many of ther women and children, in being deprived oftheir fathers and hufbands,and driven fromtheir homes in the moft inclement and fe-vere feafon of the year.“ William It. As for Maclan'of Gleaco, and“ that tribe, if they can be tl ftioguKhcd from the^reft“ of the Highlanders, it wi 1 be proper, for the vindica-“ lion of public juftief, to extripate that fet of thieves.’'W. R,14th A^ticlc'of iuftru&ions, Jan. 16-PAISLEY:Printed by J. Ncilfon, Cumberlanct;The ‘MASSACRE ofG L E N C 0, &c.SIR,THE Account you•(ikfired of that and ftfr-prizing Ma.Trtcre of Gleaco, take as Follows;Mackiao Mackdonald, I^aird of Gienco, a branch ofthe Mackilonalda, one of the greated Claim, or Tribes, inthenorh of Scotland, came with the mo i cdnfiderab'emen of hie Clan to Colonel Hill, Governor of Fori- Wil-liftin at luverlnchy, fome few days i)sfjre the expiringof We time for receiving the Indemnity appointed byproclamation, which, tm I take it, v/ao the i ft of Jaraiar^lalt in reat.ag he would ad mi Bitter unto him the oathnwivieh the forefaid proclamation required to be taken ;that la lubsriittiqg himTeff to the government, he mighthave its protection. The Colonel received him with allexprefitons of kindnefa; ncverthele’fs Ihd'ced the adminif-teriag the oaths to him ; aiiedging, that by the p-oclamationit didhot belong to him, but to the SherifF’, Bai¬lies of R-rgalities, and Migiftrates of butgiis, to almi-nifte^them Maekian complaining that by tins difap-pointment he might be wronged, the time being nownear the expi: ing, and the weather fo extreme, and thewiiys ft) very bad, that it was not peffible for him fo foonto reach an^ vShe-’tT, &c. got from Colonel Hill, underhis haui|, hb protcfUdn; and withal hewas ailnred, that noorders government againft him (hould be put inexecution until he fi'-ft;wa9 advertifed, and had time allow-edhim toapplm himfelf to King or council for his own fafe-ty. But the better to ranks all fure (tho* this might havefeemed fecurity enough for that time) with all difpatchimaginable he polled to laverary, the chief town ofArgylefliire, where he found Sir Colin Campbell of Ard-3kiulis, ShetifF of that fl»:re, and craved of hitn thebenefit of the Indemnity, according to the proclamation,he being willing to perform all the conditions required.Sir Odin at firtl fcrupled to admit him to the oaths, thetime which the proclamation did. appoint being elapfedby one dsv, alledging it would be of no ufe to him thento take them : But Mackian reprefented that it was nothis fault, he having come in time enough to Colonel Hill,not doubting but he could have adminillere.d thec-itha to him, and that upon his rtfufal Lf had made fucahade to Inverary, that he might have come in timeenough, had not the extremity of the weather hinderedhim ; and even as it was, he was but one day af'er thetime appointed ; and that it would be very unbecomingthe Government to take the advantage of a man’a cominglate by one day, efpecially when he had done hia ntmo.1!to have come in time. Upon this and his threatning toprcteli. agaiall the Sheriff'for the feverity of this ufage,l.e admmitlt’red to him aud his attendants the oaths,Mackian depending upon the Indemnity granted tothofe who. fhould take them ; afcd having to done hewent home and iivefi quietly and peaceably under thegovernment till the day of his untimely death.In January laft, a party of the Ear! of Argylc'aRegiment came to that country ; the defiga of theircoming was then fufpe£ied to be, to take courfe wkhthofe who (hould fland out, and net iubmit, and take theoaths. The Garrifon of Gienco being throngtd, andGlenco being commodicm for quartering, as beingwiearthat Garrifon, thofe Soldiers were feet thither to quarter,they pretended they came, to exact arrears of Cefaand.Hearth Money (a tax never known in Scotland un¬til laid on by the parliament 1690, after the parliamentof England had eaftd themfelves of it.) Before theyentered Glenco, the Laird or fono came out to meet them,and silted them iftheycamecs friends or as enemies ? T^eofiiceru autwered, As friends, and gave their parole ofhonour that they would do neither him nor Jo's concerns anyhaem ; upon which he welcomed them, promiling themthe Left, entertainment the place could affurti. Thishe really performed, as ail the foldiers confefs. He asd4 . ' -. '‘they together in mutual kindnefe and fricndlhip fif¬teen daye, or thereabouts; fo far was he from fearingany hurt from them. And the very laft day of his life hefpent in keeping company with the commander of thatparty, Captain Campbell of Gienlyon, playing at Cardswith him till fix or (even at night, and at their partingmutual proteftations of kiudnefs were renewed. Sometime that very day, but whether before, or after theirparting, I kuow not. Captain Campbell had thefe order*fent him from Major Duncaufon, a copy whereof 1 herefend you.' Ballacholis, Feb. 12. 1692.SIR.YOU are hereby otdered to fall upon the. P-ebelt,the Mackdonalds of Glenco, and put all to the Swordunder feventy. Youare to have efpecial care that the OldFox and his Sons do upon no account efcape yeur hands-You are to fecure all the avenues, that no man efcape-This you are to put in execution at five c’Clock in theMorning precifely, aitd by that time, or very fnortiyafter it, I’ll drive to be ac you with a ftronger party :If I do not come to you at Jive you are not to tarry forroe, but to fall on. This is by the King’s SPECIALCOMMAND, for the good arid fafety of the country,that thefe roifereants jnay be cut eff root and branch.See that this be put in execution, without feud or favour,elfe you, may ?xpe& to be treated as not true to theKing or government, nor a man tit to carry a conamif-fion in the King’s fervice. Expecting you will not failin the fulfilling hereof, as you love yourfeif, I fubferibethefe with my Land,ROBERT DUNCANS©N.For their Majeftfes Service, to CaptamRoBEar Campbell of Glenlyon.SIR, Ballacholie, Ftb. 12. tfipz.PER Second to the Commander in Chief, and myColonel’s orders to me, for putting in execution thefervice commanded againft the Rebels in Gienco, where¬in you, with the party of the Earl of Argyle’s regi¬ment under your command, are to be concerned 5yc>i a?e there.fore forthwith to order your affdiVafo, at that the iereral pnOs already afilgnecl by you, beby you-and yegr ievera! detachoieotfl fallen in aftion withprecifely by five o’Ciock to-morrow morning, being Sa¬turday; at which time I will endeavour the fame with thofeappented from thio Regiment for the other places. Itwi)! be.rnolt necifihry you fccurc thofe avemtea on thefeuth fide, that the Old Fox nor none of his Cuba get e-''-ay. The orders are, that n^ne be fpaved of the fwardfrom 70, nor t. -• Government troubled with Prifoners.This is all until I fee you, from•Your humble Servant,JAMES HAMILTON.PLafe *0 order a gaurd to ftcure the Ferry, and theBoatj thire ; and the boats mnfl be all on this fide theFerry after your men are ever.For their Maje$7es Service, For-M']or RobertDupcafon ot'the Rarl ~cf Argyle’a Regiment.THE Soldiers being difpefe4 five or three it) a houfe,according to the uumher of the family they wereto sffiffioat-i, had their orders given them ferretly. Theyhad been all received as friends by thote poor people,who .intending no evil themfe'ves, litlla: fdtpeiSed thattheir guefis were defigned to be their murderers. At fiveo’Clock in the morning they began 'their bloody work,furprifed and fcu.chered thirty eight perfons who hadkindly received them under their roof?. Mackisn. him-.fejf was mvnkred, and is mu'eU bemoaned ; he -was aftately web-favoured man, and of good courage^-ndfeme : As alfo the Laird of Archincrikin, a gentleman ofmore than ordinary jucgemtnt and underftanding, who hadfubmitted to the government, and had Co! Hill’s protec¬tion in his pocket, which he had got three’months be¬fore. I cannot without horror reprefen: how that a boyabout eight years of age was murdered ; he ireing whatwas done to ethers ip,the houie with tun-, in a terriblefrighi ran out of the houfe, and efnying C.pt Campbell,graiptd him about the legs, crying for mercy, and oftcr-tog to be his fervant ail life, 1 am informed Cirpt.6Campbell inclined to fpsre him ; but one Drummond, anofficer, barbaroofly ran tiia dagger through him, where-of he died immediately, 't’he rehearfal c f'feveral particu¬lars and circumftances of this tragical ftory, makes it ap¬pear moft doleful; as that Mackian was killed as he wasdrawing on bis breeches, ttanding before his bed, andgiving orders to bis fcrv-apts for the good entertainmentof thofe who murdered him ; while he was fpeaking thewords, he was fhot through the head, and tell dead inhis lady’s arms, who through the grief of ibis and otherbad ufages (he met with, died next day. It is not to beomitted that raoft of ihcfe poor people were killed whenthey were aflcep, and none were allowed to pray to Godfor mercy. Providence ordered it fo that that night wasrr.oft boifterout ; fo as a psrty of four hundred man, whoftould have come to the other end of the glen, and begunthe like work there at the fame hour (intending that thepoor inhabitants fliould be enclofad, and none of themefcape) could not march at length, until it was nineo’Clock, and this afforded to many an opportunity ofefcapingf and none were killed but thole in whofe houfesCampbell of Cknlyon’s men were apjsrtered,'other wifeall the males under feventy years of age, to the numberof two hundered, had been cutoff, tor (hat was theorder ; and it might have been eafily executed, efpeciallyconfidering that the inhabitants had iu> arms at that time;for upon the firll hearing that the fbldiers were comingto the glen, they had convey el them ail out of the way-For thoJ they relied on the promifes which were madethem for their fafetey; yet they thought it not improbs-able that they might be difarmed. I *koow not whetherto impute it to difficulty in diftingurfhing the differenceof a few years, or to the fury of the foldiers, who beingor.ee glutted with blood, hand at nothing, that even femeabove Seventy years of age were deftroyed. They fetall the houfes on lire, dnave off a!! the cattle to the G«r-nfon cf Inveriocb.y, viz. i,cc Cows, ;oo Horfes, anda great many Sheep and Goats, and there they we*e di¬vided wucEgtt the officers. And how difma! may youiuisginc the cafe of the root women and children wasthen I It waa laircntab'e pail exprcfiion ; their hofbandaand fathers ancHiear rdatuwia were forced to flee for theirlirea ; they themfelyes aimoft ftript and nothing left, them, aod their houfes being burnt-, and n8t one houfenearer than fix miies; a#d to get thither they were to pafsofrer mountain?, aud wreaths of fnow, in a vehementftorrr, wherein the moft part of them periflied through hun¬ger and Cold. It fills me with horror to think of poorflript children and women, fome with child and fomegiving fuck, wreftling agaioft a tlorm, in mountains andheaps of fnow, and at length to be overcome, and give©vex, anci fail down, ?,nd die mifersbly.You fee in Hamilton’s order to Duncanfon, there ia %5 fpecial caution, That the Old Fi.x nor none ot bis Cubsfliould efcape ; and in Duucanfon’o order to Cspt.Campbell of Glenlyon, That the old Fox nor none ofhis fons efcape; but notwithftanding all shia wickedcaution, it pleafed GoJ that the two young gentlemen,Mackian’s.fons, cfcaped. For it happened that theyounger of thefe gentlemen trufted little to the fairpromi.fea of Campbell, and had a mSre watehfjjl eye overhim than his father or brother, who fullered thfmfelvesby his r%terared oaths to be deluded into a beliefof his imegrity : he having a tfrung impreffija ouh:8 fpirit. that foa.e; rnifehierou* dcfig.i wivs hidden urvl, rCampbell’s fpecious pie-eaces, it rnade him, £f;er the reftI were in bed, remain in a retired Corner, where he hadan advantageous prpfpeti into their gaurd. About mid¬night, perceiving fcveral foldiers to enter it, this incrcafed; his jiaioufy; fp ha went and communicated his feats to hiabrother, who could hot fi r a long time be pe'tfuaded therewas any bact defign agoinil them, and aliened. That what[he had ieen was not a doublieg their guards in orderto any ill defign, but that being in a ftrange pfl'ace, amist a diilanee from the Garrifou, they were to fend out Cen-ringls far from the' guard, andbeeaufeof the extremityof the weather relieved them often, and that tlie nun hefaw could be do moie than th*ie. Yet he perfiftir.g tofay, That they were not fi> fecure, but that it vvaa fit to-acqualnt their feiher with vviu-t he had feet, heprevailed with hia brother to rite, and go wdh him to. 8 . •' :;Ris father, who lay in a room ccwtiguoiu to that theywere in. Tlu/ what the ytmnger Ion ahedged made u.>great ^mprcffioo on his father,yet he uliowcd hia fens to trywhat ihty c*uid difeover- They well knowing all fituik¬ing places liuie, went and hid ^themfelvea n :ar to atentinel’a poft, where in Stead of one, they diicoveredeigfft or ten men ; this made them more inq.udi'.ive, iothey crept as near as they could wit hout lx mg difeovered,fa near tt.at they could bear one fay to his fellows, Thathe hked not this work, and that Lad he known of it, hewould have been .very unwilling to have come there ;hut that none except their commanders knew of it tillwithin a Quarter of an hour. T *c fcJdier added, thathe was willing to fight agaihfl the men of the G.'en, butit was hafe to murder them, ilut to all this was aniwer-ed, All the blame be on fach as gave the orders ; we arefret, being bound to obey cur officers. Upon hearing ofIhefe words, the young Gentlemen retired as qu ckiy andas quietly as they could towards the houfe to informthem father of what they had hea.d ; but as they camenigh to it they perceived it lurrouuded, ams heard gunseifeharged, and the people fhmking ; whereupon, beingunarmed, and totally unable to refeue them father,they preferved their own lives in hopes yet toferve theirking and country, and fee jufttce dune upon thofe hell-hounds, treacherous murderern, the fhame of their coun¬try, and dtfgrace to mankind.I tnuft not fojgetto tell you, That there.were two cfihefe Officers who had given ihetr Parole of honour toMachine, who refuted to be concerned in that brutaltiagedy, for which they were fent prdoners to Glafgow,where if they remain not ft-il!, 1 am hire they were foitieweeks ago, but as ye' I have not learned then fate.S I R,Your humble Servant, &c.FIN I S.Pci/ley, printed by J. Cumberland 1801.