THELORD’S Trumpet,Sounding an ALAPiM againftSCOTLAND,By Warning ofA Bloody SWORD;BEINGThe Subftance of a PREFACE and TwoProphetical SERMONS, preached atGlenlace. Anno 1682, by that great SccttijhProphet Mr. Alexander PeDen, lateMinitler of the Gofpel at Neiv-Glenluce, inGalloway,Xfaiah Iviii. 1. Cry aloud, f^are not, lift up thy voice likea trumpet, &c.Hofea vii. 1. Set the trumpet to thy mouth ; he Jhall conicas an eagle again]] the houfe of the LORD, becaufethey have tranfgrejfed my covenant, and trefpajj'ed.again]] my lavs.Joel ii. r. Blow the trumpet in Zion, and found an alarmin my holy mountain. Let all the inhabitants of theland tremble : for the day of the LOR D cometh j forit is nigh at hand.Amos iii 8. The lion hath roared, IVho will not fear ?//6t?LORD GOD hath fpoken, Who can but prophefy ?Atfs i. 19. /Ind it was known unto all the dwellers atJerufalem, infomuch as that field is called in their pro¬per tongue, Aceldama, that is to fay, the field of blood.Glafgow printed in the Year, 1739; — and nbw re¬printed in the Year, 1779, for the Bookfellers*(Price only Three Pence.)P RE FACE.rj 'H ere are many of you gathered here theg day ; ye had need to examine wherefore yecame here.—It is long fince it hath been our dejtreto God to have you taken off' our hand, and nowhe is near to grant us our defire, '[here is threeor four things that 1 have to tell you this day\ andthe i (t is this, J\ bloody fivord, a bloody Jword,a bloody fword for thee, O Scotland, that /hallreach the inofl part of you to the very heart. Andthe 2d is tins. Many a mile [ball ye travel inthee, 0 Scotland ! and /ball fee nothing but wafleplaces. The 3d is this, I he fertile]} places inthee, 0 Scotland!^/// be wajle as the mountainstops. And 4thly, the women with child in thee0 Scotland !/ball be da/hed in pieces. And jjthly,there hath been many conventicles ifi t bee, 0 Scot¬land ! but e’er it be long God /ball have a conven¬ticle in thee, that /ball make thee (Scotland)tremble Many a preaching hath God wareuin thee, 0 Scotland ! but e’er it be long, God’sjudgments /ball be as frequent in Scotland asthefe precious meetings, wherein hefent forth hisfaithful fervants to give faithful warning in hisname of their hazard in apoflatizing from God,and in breaking all his noble vows. God fent outa WeHh, a Cameron, a Cargill, anda$tm\ucto preach to thee ; but e’er long God ft ail preen isto thee by a bloody fword. God (hall not let afentence of thefe men’s words fall to the groundthat he fent out and commiffiored to preach the/ethings 'in his name. I Jay, God ft all not let afentence that he commanded them to fpeak t0Jafto the ground, but ftall have Us duep*er loner.The LORD’S TRUMPET, 6c.SERMON I.Matth. xxi. 38. But wSoil', they [aid amon^hen the hujhandmcn Jaw thethemjelves. This is the beir>come let us kill him, and let us feize on his inhe¬ritance.5 HIS that I have read unto you is Scotland’sfin this day : if our king and nobles hadour Lord jefusChrift among them ixt Edin¬burgh the day. What would they do withhim ? 1 hey would even give him a pairof gallowfes or work, if they could devife it; forwhich he (hall yoke, e’er long, with our king andnobles, and a part of unfaithful minifters as well aseither prelates or malignants e'er it be long, all (hallgo together in thir lands.Now in the text, There is fruit called for from thirliufbandmen ; what fruit is this ! ye fee it is fruit infeafon : this fruit is called for from thee, O Scotland,ihe day. ^ fnisfruit is not fuch fruit as ye pay yourrents with, coin or hay, or the like, that your heartslove well Sirs, it is fruit in feafon : I’ll tell youfirs*, the duties that God would have taken off yourhands thirty or forty years ago in Scotland, whetherpreaching or praying, or any other fpiritual duties,he will not take it ofF your band to-day in Scotland;I fay he will not take it off your hand nor mine either,now when fo much of the faints blood hath gone tofe.il thete truths, which we were all bound to own inScotland, and in all rhefe covenanted lands. Nowpeopic of God, in Scotland, there is fome of you look¬ing me 111 the face the day, I appeal to your confci-ences whether it be true or no. Well, what fruit isr us that is called for ? It is faith and repentance,love ,0 God and obedience to his revealed will, whichA -3 many,4 The LORD’S TRUMPET foundingmany of you ; yea, the moft part of you are as greatftrangers to, as if ye had never heard this everlaflinggolpel preached unto you. Now people of God inScotland, what are ye doing when inch dreadful wrathis at the door in Scotland? He is not worth his roomin Scotland the day, that prayeth not the half of histime, to fee if he can prevent the dreadful wrath thatis at your door coming on your pocr mother-land.O firs, ye muff pray plowing, harrowing and {hear¬ing, ay and at all your labour, ay when ye are eatingand drinking, going out and in, and at all your em¬ployments : there was never more need than now.O that noble life we might have of communion withGod, O firs, it is he that makes heaven pleafant jwill ye long to be there, O people of GOD.'Now the woids of the text, he would have fruitfrom you in this country-fide, and from thee, OGienhtce; he fern th«-e frrff a crumb, and then hefent thee many a faithful turn of his fervants whilethey were on the mountains; and now he hath lentme to thee this day, to bid thee pay him his fruit,and little hath he gotten from thee, O Gienluce; forwhich he fhall make many places wafte in thee, OScotland* e’er long : biit i’ll tell you what is for yourperfecuted lufrerei s crowns, crowns of glory ye fhallwear e’er long; and a remnant of you {hall be pre-ferved in all the fad days that is coming on Britainand Ireland. Now, firs, I have news to tell you, thereis many of you had need to be making your teflments,ye will not have long time to run upon the worldibme of you ; peace with God will be a good teftmente’er long, firs : for Scotland {hall be drowned withblood e'er long ; and then in that fearful day of wraththat is coming on thefe harlot, apoflate lands, foptreachery and covenant-breaking with God ; the tefti-mony of a good confcience will be a good feaft whena bloody fword may be at your bread, then peace withGod will help to make a good teftment in that day treadan ALA.RM to Grfat Britain and Ireland. 5read the i^th of the Hebreivs, ver. 14. Follow peace-with ail men, and hclinrjs, without which none jhaltfeethe LORD.— What kind of holinefs is this, fits ? I'ilteii. yon what it is, it is not fuch a meafure of holi-nefs as Abraham, Mcfes, or David, or any of thefegreat worthies had ; God will take lefs off your handspoor folk •, it is holinefs in defign, that is the thingthat God will approve of from you. It is not theflock of grace that ye have received that will do yourturn ; it is the thing that ye live in expectation of,and is longing for : ye may want many things, butye may not want holinels : friends, ye may be blind,lame, poor in the world, dumb, contemptible, andreproached, and want many thingr, and yet come toheaven ; but and ye want hoiinefs, ye will never comethere ; take heed ci thofe things I intreat you in fucha oay a1 this.Now firs, There are many of you come Here theday out of feveral places; ye are all come here pro-ftffing to be wOrfhippers of God and living folk: butl am to lay by five or fix forts of folk that is but deadfolk.And iji, Ye are dead folk that are ignorant of the-faving way and device of falvation through the cove¬nant of redemption, devifed betwixt the Father andthe Son from all eternity, ye are all dead folk that ir. .fuch; ye are all ignorant of the cafe of the work ofGod in Scotland, ye are all dead folk. I had ratherhave one of you fufferers that is bred at Clirift’s fchoolin throw, in Clydfdale yonder, than have an hundredof you to join with me : ye have no weight with God,no grace, no fcholars at Chrift’s fchool, and thereforey.e are but dead folk.A 2d fort are, Ye who are fair blc foming profejfors,,hut ye are but as whited tombs, as rotten as' deadgraves, and hath nothing but a profejfion, and knows■not what the work of regeneration ts; ye are deadfolk, we muff lay you by.A i 'i'67ht LORD’o TRUMPET foundingA yl fort are, Ye who are plunging in the world,yet have no god but the world, that bears ay mojlfway in your hearts : ye are but dead folk, firs, wemaun Jay you by: any that would reprove you for you rworldly-mindednefs, or for your exceffive covetouf-nefs. O (fay ye; we mult labour for our living,would ye have us let our handy-labour alone ? Bur,O fool that thou art, and worldmonger that thou art,hath not ChriJt anfwercd thee in that bth of Matthew,r^yl verfe, Seek fir ft the kingdom of heaven and therigbteeufnefs thereof and all other things fhall be eld¬ed to you.—O firs ! will ye Hpen to God, and give himcredit, and he will help you at all your work : and yewould once covenant with him, friends, and make"him your own; I’ll tell you what he would do forvou, he would plow your land, fow your corn, andihear your corn, and fell your corn, and bring homeyour money : I’ll tell you what he will do (friends)as it were to rock the cradle, if it were needful foryou : he will condefcerid as low as ye defire him, butye man once clofe with him, and that upon his ownterms, and make a furrender of your hearts to him.And a ^ori: that we man lay by as dead folk,and that is, Your greicclefs young folk and old pro-phane polk, ye abu/e your time that ye fhaidd ferve Godin : ye meet together houfefulls of you, dancing and'leaping throw other; young men and young women ofyou with your gracekfs wanton mirth, and your luftsburning jftrong within you, and ye think that ye haveliberty io do this : ye will be angry if we call youadulterers or fornicators, God will account you to : andif ye get not repentance, ye are real!/ ferving the devilin your lifts, and ihefe jinful courfes. O firs, is thisa time for fuch a work ? when God is threatening toJay poor OY&r/i'Wdefolate: ye fhould rather be mourn¬ing and crying to God for {belter in fuch a dreadfuljlonn and fad days that he hath to bring about ontliefe anoftatc backfiiding covenant-breaking lards.A fthan ALARM to Great Britain aud Ireland. 7A $th fort of dead folk are, You that hath gone -withthe fiorm and hath complied and hath given your con-fent to the putting Chrift out of poor Scotland by yourbonding and tefting againjl him : what are ye doingsfirs ? if he marvelloufy prevent it not, l fear blackpopery e'er long the pope is coming back to feek hispawn that he left in Scotland long ago, and ye archelping him well: i'll tell you more of it, firs, if theLord had not gotten three or four facrifces ef the bloodof the faints in Scotland, we had all been bowing toflocks and Jlcnes the day, and to black idolatry ; whichwas at Pentland, Botbwell and Airdfmofs : the bloodof the faints hath given a teflimony againfl the defec¬tions of all ranks in Scotland. Our Lord’s enemieshath not broken a pinning off, or dung a pin out ofthe work of God ; but the blood of the faints hathrun in throw and out throw, giving a teftimony againttall the ufurpation which they have made upon our1 ord’s crown in Scotland, which.fpeaks good newsto us the day, and the pofterity following : the gene¬ration that are yet to arife (hall partake of the bene¬fits of the fuffering remnant in Scotland. Now oldfolk, what are ye doing ? I fear the ftorm lay you by;and ye young folk, what are ye doing ? will ye ventureto clofe with him, lads and laffes in Scotland; and £will tell you news of it, the lads and lafles that hathfollowed him in this ftermy blafi, and hath laid downtheir lives for him ; your eyes, firs, (hall fee them onthrones, and crowns on their heads, and robes ofglory, with harps and palms in their hands, as youmay fee in the Revelation, 7 chap, and 9th ver. Andye that are young folk in this country-fide (if he callyou to it) and if ye will venture to follow him in thisif or my blaft, and bide by his back, and flick by hisperfecuted truths in Scotland the day. He will fetyou on thrones, and ye fhall give in your judgmentwith him, when he finall judge the bloody king, andthe bloody council and parliament, the bloody dukeof8 7h LORD’S TRUMPET foundingof Fork, and our gracelefs prophane nobles and gen*tlemen, and gracelefs minifters of Scotland. O thegracelefs watchmen of Scotland is all dyed with theblood of the faints. O my heart trembles within meto think what is coming on the backfliding, foul-murdering minifters of Scotland : the children of thefaints that {hall out-live the captivity in the days thatare coming, (hall be ready to meet fuch minifters,and ftone them with ftones, as ye have it in Zccha~riab 13 chap. 4 ver. Therefore take heed what yeare doing, for there is as fad days coming as ever wasin thefe lands ; namely in thee, apoftate Scotland, forthy perjury and apoftacy. We have all caufe to be af¬raid that he be about to tranfmit his vineyard to ano¬ther nation, to better hufbandmen that will give himbis fruits better than we in Scotland have done. Nowye that are the people of God, I ken that ye will thinkthis hard news ; but yet I have this to tell you, al¬though we have provoked him to remove his candle-dick to another land, and he is threatening to do fofor a while ; but yet though there be wrath in hisface, there is love in his heart; and he will return tothee, O Scotland; and there dial I be as glorious daysin thee, O Scotland, as ever was in the world, in de-fpite of all his adverfaries, both king, council andparliament, and profane malignants and prelates;yea, and all the defe£lions of the people of God, ftiallnot keep him away from making a vifit to his poorperfecuted friends in Scotland yet.A 6th fort of dead folk are, Ye that want hcart-holinefs, although ye have aprofeftion, yet ye are butlight, wanton profeflbrs, unconcerned with the cafeof the time : 1 fear die devil is inverted in many ofyou, boiling in your hearts lulls and idols : well, firs,all the minifters in the world Cannot help you in thiscafe, it muft be Chrift; that mnft do it, as he did toAlary Magdalene : for the devil is as really in manyof you as he was in her. But I fear Chrift hath quatmanyan ALARM to Great Britain and Ireland. 9hiany of you, and given you a_ farewell-chap uponyour heart that lie is likely to reprove you no more,till he make his fury rejt upon you : but, however, Ihave this to fay, and remember that I have faid it.Ye that want heart-holinefs, the devil and ye (hallcorne alike foon to heaven ; if God be in heaven yefhall find this tine that I have faid to you; but l kennot what I have ado among you this day; for I cando no good among you ; it feems the gofpel is afealed book to moft part of profeflors in thefe lands,and in this generation : ye were all perjured in thebeginning with complying with prelacy^ and hearingthefe curfed curates, after ye had covenanted andfworn to God, and engaged yourfelves in that cove¬nanted work of reformation, and as long as ye mournnot for that fin as much as for whoredom, adultery,murder or dealing, the gofpel will never do you good;I charge you to believe this, and ye lhall know thatthe Lord hath fent me to tell you thefe things in thatday when God (hall fiimmon you before his tribunal;I leave thefe things upon you. But as for you thefufferers in Scotland, that God hath made choice ofto give teftimony for him, the poor lads and lafi'es inScotland, that hath fuffered for him, that he hathtaken out to fcaffolds, your petition is in the Revela-tion, 12 chap. 1 ver. A woman clothed with the funy!and the moon under her feet : the fufferers in Scotlandhath gotten the world under their feet this day. Ifhe charge any of you in this counfry-fide to go outand fufrer for him, deny him not; he has taken fewout of Garrick or Galloway yet, hut ye know not whathe will do. And now, people of God, wait on pa¬tiently, and ntake corifcience of dealing with him, for1 have news to tell ycuj he will reach his hand on.all the malignants e’er long • ay, he will cut off theremnant of them in Scotland Air long, although theyhave find as in our text. This is the'heir, come let uskill him, and feize on his inheritance. And if theyB _ had10 The LORD’S TRUMPET foundinghad our Lord in Scotland the day, they would cer»tainly do fo with him : But I’ll tell you, God willcut off the polterity of them that are greateft enemiesto our Lord, and their children Ihall wander, beg-ing their bread, being deftitute, and not having tocover their nakednefs, and this (hall be their punilh-ment; our Lord {hall not only overthrow them forthe wrongs that they have done to him, but he fliallfet a mark of his difpleafure on their pofterity andgenerations to come: but for you, the poor brokenhearted followers of Chrilt, to whom he hath givengrace to follow him in this ftorm, I’ll tell you graceis young glory at your firfl converfion. Our Lordgives you one end of his line, but he keeps the otherin glory with himfelf, he will hale you all there atlength, firs- And now i charge you, meddle withnone of thefe hands or tefis, for they will wrong you,look the 13 of the Revelation, it is the mark of thebeafl; the Scripture faith, they that worfhip the beaft,and receive his mark in their forehead, or in theirright-hand, mufl have their portion in the lake thathutneth "cuithfire and brimftone. And now I chargeyou to take counfel at neither minifters nor profeflbrs,nor gentlemen nor nobles, for they will counfel youall the wrong gate. The blood of many a foul inScotland (hail be charged on them e’er it be long.For now our curfed nobles and gentles; yea, manyminifters and profefibrs is come that length in apof-tacy, that they will fear at nothing, they are altogethergiven up of God: you know what is faid in the idepiltle of Paul to Timothy, 3 chap 13 ver Evil menand feducers fhall wax worfe and worfc, while theyare going on in their apoftacy irom and againft God.The martyrs are going oft' the fcafiolds finging andrejoicing and praifing Cod, going to glory, leavingtheir tettimony againft all their wicked fteps of defec¬tion, by {bedding of their innocent blood, and is lay-in £ Scotland and thefe lands in a fad cafe the day.b ~ Nowan ALARM to Great Britain and Ireland, nNow firs, when wrath is fo near, I pray you to takenotice what ye are doing; for e’er long, Britain andIreland (hall be overthrown with judgments, anddrowned in blood; and ye rtiaii be gathered togetheras flocks of fheep to hill-frdes in a itormy night, antifhall be overthrown with the wrath of God, whichfhall overthrow thefe lands, for the dreadful wrongsChrift hath gotten among!! us. And now I giveyou faithful warning, if ye perifh, your blood (hallbe upon your own head 1 affirre you, e’er it be long,ye ihall be made an aceldama, (a field of bloodJ andthen two Itorms (hall be on you at once. Firf> Thewrath of God to cut you off, and awakened confciencewithin, and a bloody fiuord to take away your life,and i trow that (hall be fore to bide. A.nd now, Obackflidingprofeflbrs of Scotland, take heed how youhave your graces in exercife, look that ye fail not ofthe grace of God in this fad day; and remember thata (lock of grace will not do your turn, and I trow fewof you hath that itfelf: therefore take heed what youare doing; for it is no fmall meafure of wrath thatis upon poor Scotland the day. The Spirit of con-verfion is retrained, the preaching of the gofpelblafted, the Word of the Lord does no good; thisbo les great wrath on Scotland this day, and all thefelands. I’ll tell you firs, ye had need to heed yourdoings in fuch an hour of temptation, when fo manyorofedbrs are going with the dorm: for there is no¬thing but immediate divine fupport out of heavenwill hold you up in a dormy blad. A Chridian thathath been a (landing Chridian thefe forty years, anV hour’s rime of a fiery trial may lay them on theirback,/ and deny Chrift. This may make all of ustremble, fear, and be humble before the Lord. Godfave you from a fudden furprifing temptation, of whichthere are many in our day in Scotland. But to thepoor broken-hearted believer that refoives in his nameand ha his drength to Hand through the dorm, l have“ news12 The LORD’S TRUMPET foundingjiews to tell you, Chrlll is as much bound to hold youup, as ye are bound to iuffer for him, when ye arecalled to it: and all thele that hath given a teltimonyfor Chrift thefe one arm twenty years, is a large proofof it, and all of them young and old ha h been won¬derfully holden up to the admiration of all on-Jcokers,even to fome of the perfecutors themfelyes, an-.i ail ofthem fhail come in as witneffesagainit you that lunch¬ed from the truth, or fhall flench from n, and rhefeflrall be eternal handing witnefl’es againlt you: yea,1 will tell you more, not one of you wicked uncon¬cerned bodies, I fay, not a drop of the faints bloodwhich hath been {bed in Scotland in this lad day ofZion’s, trouble, perfecution and calamity, but it {hallbe required at your hands: ye are the murderers ofthe faints, and I trow there are many fuch in Scotlandthis day, both men and women, and rotten uncon¬cerned minifters and profeflbrs, that God will iueepaway e’er long in his anger, as vveil as a profane wic¬ked king, wicked nobles, and prophane court-folk,kirkmen and prephane prelates, and all their lalfeunder lingf, God (hall make a fair riddance e’er long:God haflen it in bis due time.But I'll tell you firs, the Lord’s return to this landwifi be terrible, for the godly Iball fall among thewicked, for our perjury and faife dealing with him inbis covenant: therefore make for h, lor 1 give youfair warning the day; Ip.*y you take the alarm, and1 leave it upon you old folk, that is going o’er tiebrae, and dropping into eternity, and knows not whereye will take up your eternal lodging. O dreadful!what will become of you 2 dying and unreconciledwith God.Remember the word that I cited to you in. the \7th,of the Hebrews, Without holinefs none Jhall fee theLord But yet poor broken-hearted believers (as ffaid to you before) it is not fuch a meafure of holincis'as Enoch, Abraham, Mofcs and David, or any of thefeworthies.an ALARM to Great Britain arc? Ireland. 13lyorthies bad that he feeks from you: it is holinefsin detign, and to obey the device of falvation in thech iign of the gofpel And now take heed that yedouble your diligence, and fail not of the grace of Godin this dark hour or darknets that is coming, and isfurther to come on Scotland: for k is a very fad and"diradiul piognollicanon from God, that at this junc¬ture of time, the Lord hath almolf blown out all thelights in Scotland. And now i leave it on you tomind the prifoaers in Scotland the day, in all theprifons in Scotland, as ve will anf.ver in the greatclay, and take a hearty life with them in their faddiitrefsAnd now, ye voung folk, I leave it on you to makeconfcience in clofing with him; O! fay ye, we areyoung, and has time enough to repent; hut I’ll tellyou, firs, the Lord needs no other rod to chaftife youwith, but to let you live 30, or 40, or 60, or yo yearsin this world; and then, if ye remain ignorant, hewill cad you into hell, and therefore take heed to your-Rlves. And now, lirs, the Lord haftens to come,and he hath been crying to you in thtfe lands (andnamely to thee upfitten Scotland) to watch with himbut one hour in his fuffenngs and temptations, butwe have not done it: for which thou, O Scotlandfhali Ire made the butt of his wrath e’er long; butthe other two lukewarm indifferent lands {ball notefcape, but {hall drink off the dregs of the cup of hisanger. But, indeed, the blood of the perfecuted rem¬nant that hath been Hied to witnefs againlt defectionsfor a testimony fpeaks beft to thee, O Scotland, a rem¬nant of thee {hall efcape; and fhaii be monuments ofhis mercy in all the fioods of wrath that is comingcn thefe lands; yea, a remnant in the other two luke¬warm lands, that hath, been fympathizing with hisbroken work (ha!! efcape ; but 1 fear the number thallbe few. And now, firs, I leave thefe things uponyou, and this fad word I have to tell you, that to 3faithful minifter about thirty years ago, a whole c*.,-^regation was not fo weighty as one profefibr is this14The LORD’S TRUMPET foundingday. I fear the Lord hath faid as in the i qth of Jere¬miah^ 11 ver. Pray not for this people, them that dies,let them die, and them that are for the fword, to thefword, and them that are fw the famine, to the fa¬mine, Sec- And Goddhall be avenged on thefe apo-Pate lands, and namely upon the apoftates of thee, Oharlot Scotland, fiom the king to the beggar, no manfhall efcape. \nd therefore, O people of God fleefait to your chambers, as ye have it in Ifaiah xxvi. 20.for 1 tern there (hall be no (belter e’er long.■dnd l will tell xou more, firs, 1 fear e'er the formgo over, the day is coming in thefe lands, that a bloodyjcajjoli will he thought a gooafhelter: therefore,.peopleof God, believe thefe things, and lay them to heart, forye. jhall meet with them e'er all be done : and now,) people of God, 1 have this to tell you likewife, f hat yejhould all mourn for and be concerned with, and thatis, the enemies of God in Scotland had never gottenus broken and ruined as they have done, if they had(| not f lowed with our own heifer : they have brokenthe kirk of God in Scotland, and defrayed us all bythis jin] ul and idolatrous indulgence : but I'll tell youfor all the craft they’have learned with their mafterthe devil to draw fo many minifiers and profeffors afterthem for a fitful fioelter, God fhall fweep them awayin the deluge of his wrath that is at the door in thirlands, it /hall fweep away, both friends—tnd foes • butyet I'll tell xou, our Lordfball break them by a yoak-tng of their own plough (for well can he do it J andhe Jhall do it in Scotland e'er long : he wilhbrcik themand ruin them fo clean that the remnant of Bad fhaItbe hateful yet to be named in Scotland, or in any ofthefe lamb. I mean idolatry and all Konrdfh waresJhall be fweep ed away with the blood of the faints thathath been Jhed, and is to be Jhcd in Scotland, and inthefe covenanted lands e'er the form go over, and be¬fore the Lord have dene with us, and namely in thee,apellate Scotland.Eut yet glorious (ball he the days that (hall be inthee, O Scotland, in defpite of devils and wicked;an ALARM to Great Britain Ireland, rjmen, as in the defpite of all the defections and back-llidings of the backflidden people of God, they ihaltnot be able to hinder it when the Lord lhall return:and, therefore, people of God, I charge you to believeit, that he hath a mind to return; for it will help tohold up your fainting hearts in this bad (form thatye are to go throw. And now, firs, 1 know it isneither tight nor lawful for any minifter in Scetland,or Chriftian to join with him in taking houfes topreach in, and leave the fields. It were better for usall, firs, to go to the fields in froft and fnow until wewere wet to the (kin on our knees, e'er we bow toone of them, king or council or any of them; for lknow that the Lord will never blefs the labours o£any that hath their liberty from them, whether mi-nifter or profeffor, but fuch minifters and profdforsfhall be blafted, and their labours blafted and fruit-lefs, if their fouls be not in hazard, I fadly fear andam mifiaken. This being the main head, that Chriftour Lord is head of the church, and king in Zion,and this they deny on the matter, and if that be notdangerous and fad, judge ye, to confent to let Chrift’scrown go on the head of any king in the world, andthis is the fin that fhall ruin thefe three lands; norank (hall efcape from the king to the beggar, minif¬ters and profeffors, and all (hall go with the judgment,for all have finned for the molt part, and have joinedwith finful courfes that we have taken to fhun fuffer-ing; the Lord (hall take thefe things and make theminfiruments and means to bring fad fufFerings on us,and then we (hall fuffer with an evil confcience in.themidft of the (form that is coming on; and [ fear itfhall be fadder nor I can fpeak of, or you think of atthis time : and therefore, in the name of the Lord, Icharge you to lay thefe things to heart, and mountall of you before the Lord for the grievous fins of allranks, from the greateft to the fmalleft, and labour t»have a fuitable weight upon your hearts before theLord,16 l 'he LORD’S TRUMPET foundingLord, for God will have many a fad queftion fo lafhome to your comciences rhat we ii.ati not be ab.eto anfvver : for my part, l think happy are they thathath their eyes doled, and (hall not fee the evil thatis coming on thefe nations. The liiblej the Wordof God, can hardly give a parallel, neither the ge¬nerations before, nor at this day can they parallelour fin; and therefore lay thefe things to he^rt. Thechurches abroad are biffing at us the day : nd there¬fore I leave thefe things upon you, and the Lord blefsthem to you -, for 1 fear that we (hall all have to dowith it before the (dorm go over, that we (hall cer¬tainly meet with in thefe lands.Let us pray.SERMON IILuke xxiv. 21. But we trujled that It had beenhe whichJhould have redeemed Ifrael, &c.WHERE is the Kirk of God in Scotland theday? It is not among the great clergy folk?firs, I’ll tell you where the kirk of God is, whereverthere is a praying lafs or lad at a dyke-fide inScotland, a praying party will ruin them, yet, firs, anda praying party (hall go thro’ the (dorm : but manyof you in this country-fide ye ken not thefe things;the weight of the broken kirk of God in Scotlandnever troubles you, the lofs of a cow, or two-three ofyour beads, or an ill market-day goes nearer yourhearts nor all the troubles of the kirk of God in Scot¬land. Well then, thou poor body, that will refolveto follow him, pray fad, if there were but one of you,he will be the fecond; if there were but two of youour Lord will be the third; ye need not fear that ye(hall want company, our Lord will be your companyhimfelf;an ALARM to Great Britain and Ireland. 17Ihimfelt, he will condefcend as low as ye like to youthat will r folve to follow him in this ftormy blaltthat is blowing uf>on this poor kirk in Scotland theday.But there is fome of yon that is covie here the day,the next day when ye cannot get a meeting of thiskind, ye will run away to your hirelings again : takeheed, firs, do not mock God, this indulgence will leadyou away from Chrijl as well as the curates 0 thebafe drag the kirk is getting from many of the mini-Jlers in Scotland in our day About thirty fix yearsago our Lord had a great thick back of mimfiers andpro/m Scotland, but one blaft blew fix hundredof our minifters from him at once, and they nevercame back to him again : yea, many lords and lairds,and ladies followed him then- but the wind of the formblew tht ladies gallantries in their eyes and their earsboth, which put them both blind and deaf, that theynever faw to follow Chrijl fince, nor to hear his plea-Jant voice-, the lorand lairus, and ladies were allblown over the brae Alas! for the apofiacy of nobles,gentles,miniflersandprofeffors Scotland: Scotlande'er long Jhall run in Jireams of blood, yea, many ofthe faints blood fhall yet be Jhed e'er long: but yet theblood of the faints fhall be the feed of a glorious churchin Scoland 0 firs, what are ye doing in this coun-try-fide ? Chri/l's followers in throw in Clydfdaleyonder, they have ventured fair for God, and hathgiven a great teflimony, they have burnt the tell, andthe afts of the curf-d parliament. There was a poorwidtw in that country-fide, as 1 came throw, thatwas worth many of you, and when flee was afked hswfhe dia in this ill time: I do very well (fays fhe) Iget more good in one verfe of the Bible now, nor [did in it all lang fyne; He hath caften me the keyso( th'1 pantry door, and bids me take mv fill : wasnot that a Chriflian inch ed? 0 firs. 1 wOuldhave youtake g heed wh it ye are doing now, when the blood ofthe faints is running fo fajl.G K’ow'/is The LORD’S TRUMPET foundingNow, firs, the obfervation that I would have youto tvike home with you, is this, It is ay a poor bodythat God hath done a good turn for that will followhim in a fiorm. And now, people of God, ye kenthis, Mary Magdalene that is here fpoken of in thischapter, he caft a legion of devils out of her in amorning; I trow fhe never forgat that till fhe wan toglory. Think ye not but it was a fore heart thatmorning, when fhe miffed him, and got atoom tomban an empty grave ? O what v/ould ye have thoughtto have feen this poor woman running through thebands of foldiers? but that was not the thing thattroubled her, neither the Roman guard that was aboutthe grave, nor the heavy fione that was upon thegrave’s mouth, nor the charge, under the pain ofdeath, that they fhouid not touch the grave; na, na,firs, love to God goes beyond all that; he was theirLord, and they dought not want him. The note thatI would have taken with you, is this, An ye havegotten good of Jefus Chrift, ye w'ould through hellat the neareft to be at him. O firs, them that hathfuffered for Chrift in Scotland, they ken this beft theday, they got a ftormy rough fea indeed, but a choicepleafanr fhore, and the captain of their falvation towelcome them heartily home. O firs, Chrift had awhein noble w'orthies in Scotland not long ago, thatfet the trumpet to their mouth, and gave fair watningin his name; he had a IVelfh, a Camton, a Cargill,and a Walt-wood, a noble party of tht.m proclaiminghis name in Scotland O fits, if ye could be ad¬mitted to fee and fpeak to them, they would tell you.That it is nothing to fufier for Chiift ; they are allglancing in glory now; they would flee yen out ofyour wits to behold them with theft- white robes andglorious crowns, and palms in their hands. Followfaft if he call you to fuffer for his name. But whatfhall I fay ? The moft part of you knows nothing ofthis; ye that are lying in black nature, yedougbt notbidean ALARM to Great Britain and Ireland. 19 V vhide in heaven if ye were in it, ye would give a thou-fand worlds if ye had them to be out of it agrin.li&cll, firs, I'll tell you news, hatpy they that's wincleanly through the form fince the year fixty, happythey ( / /izy ) that wan through at Pentland, Both well,and Airdfmofs. Happy they that died on fcaffolds,gibhets- or on the feas. 0 the blood of the taints willbe the feed of the church in after-ages to come inScotland. And I'll tell you more, firs, take heed whatthought ye have of the fufferers, look that ye have notthe thought that they fuffered wrong: entertain nojealoufies or hard thoughts of the people of God's caufcin their hard Sufferings : for them that hath wonthrough the form, and is won through Jordan, hathgotten Jordan’^ ebb water, and is well won throw :but the mxnifters and profeffors in Scotland that areyet to go through the ftorm (as well as the profaneparty) fioallget a flormy fea, andfisallfind Jordan’*growing water., and fhallfind hard luinning through.But to come to the woids, I trow our Lord wasblyth to hear this difcourfe between thefe two ^poor men. I here is many a man fpears the gatethey ken full well; think ye that our Lord was ig¬norant of this difcourfe before he came to them ?But he fpears to try their zeal. I trow mifbelief wasvery itrong in them (as it is with many profelfors inScotland \\e i\zy •,) l-Ve thought, faid they, that it washe that fhould have reflored the kingdom to Ifrael. Itrow many in Scotland is beginning to quell on thework of reformation and the covenant which we fworewith uplifted hands to God, whether it was the workof Got!; yea, or no.The next thing that ye will queltion is. Whetherthe work of God be real or no in your own bofora;take heed to your atheifm, people of God. I’ll tellyou your atheifm and your mifbelief will do you nnill tutn, it will put you to queltion the work of Godin your own bolo.11, and that will not be good com-C 2 - pany20 The LORD’S TRUMPET foundingpany in a fiorm that ye are likely to meet with e’erit be long in thir lands. Well, firs, there is many aplough plowing in our Lord's acres the day in Scot¬land^ but e’er long he will looie feme of them, andcut their cords, and lay them by a while. Now, firs,what is it that hath carried throw the fufferers forChrift thefe twenty-two years in Scotland? It is inthe Phil. iii. to. It is the filling up of Chntt’s lufferingsin Scotland, together with the ancient decrees ofheaven. For my part 1 feck no more it he bid mego: he hade Co many from the both year to Pentlandygo to fcafiblds and gibbets for him: they fought nomore but his commiflion, and went, and he carriedthem well throw : then in the ooth, at Pentlandy hebade fo many go to the finds and die ior him, at d lomany to fcafFolds, and lay down their lives for him,they fought no muc but his commiffion, and went,and he carried them wd! thr> w. And then in the7y, at ISothuell, he ha^’e fo many go to th< fields andfcalFolds and die for him tin y (ought no more but hiscommiffion, and went: he bade :o many g to thefeas arid be meat for the fifhes for him, they (oughtno more but his comm ffion and went. Ai d thinin the yea: do, at Airdfniofs, he hade fo many go tothe fields and icaffolds or him, they (ought no morebut his commiffi- n, and went. I his cup of fudg¬ing hath come all the way down [xoo^Abel to the 82year in Scotland Our Lord hath held this cup to allthe fuffereis h^ads wherever he had a knk in thewoi Id, and all the maryrs hath tailed of this cop, andit will go to all 'he martyrs bps that w 11 fi.ffer lorChrift even to the laft tiumpet founding. Biu yet,people of God, it is but the brine that the faints tafteof, but be ye patient in believing, 'or God (ball makethe wicked, his enemies and yom pei feectors in Scot¬land) wring out the the hitter dregs of this cup to alleternity, and to fpue and f II, and 'ifeno . ore Be¬lieve it, our Matter wilt let by this cup, and ciofe andv iw allowan ALARM to Great Britain and Ireland. 21fwallow up time in endiefs eternitj', and blow thatgreat trumpet, and then heaven and earth th»ll go toa red low at once. Olong for that noble day, believers,for it will put an end to all your fad days, and fufferingdays. Perfecuted people of God in Scotland, I remem¬ber a paflage of a great emperor when he went overfeas to battle, when he law the numerous multitudeof bis enemies ; their army was ftr more nor his army,he fays to his general, What fhall we do? their num¬ber is far greater than our’s. Then anfwered his floutvaliant general, Wre will fight(fiid he t under our ene¬my’s colours, and vanquifh them; and fo they did. Solet the noble fufferers in Scotland that fuffer for (Jbriftfight valiantly and couragioufly undertheir perfecutors-fhadow, and fothey fhall vanquifh them And, indeed,our noble Captain of falvation, J fus Chrilt has van-quiflied thefe bloody pet fecutors in Scotland thefe 22years) more by the patient fuffering of the iamts, andhath overcome them more glorioufly, and hath tri¬umphed more glorioufly over them, than he hadthrefhed them ail down in a moment. I fay the pa¬tient fuffering of the blood of the faints, declaieshis glory much abroad in the world, and efpeciailv inthir lands. 1 r; member as 1 came through the coun¬try, there was a poor widow woman, whofe hufbandfell ^\Bothwell, wh. n the bloody foldiers came to plun¬der her, and ftid. We vijl takeall thou had. and leavethee nothing, neither to put on thee nor in thee Icare not ,faid fbe) I'll not want fo long as God isin the firmament: That was a believer in God in¬deed. Now, this Mary Magdalene that we fpoke ofbefore, What was fhe before Chrirt and die met? foras well as he loved her, we read in hiftory, that be¬fore die and Chrill nvt ,fbe was a whore to the cape inof the callle at Jerufale-n. The note that 1 wouldhave you obferve is this, That for as bad as this wo¬man uitzr, ye ma\i fee Chrsft Jets his love on her, and’would not want her, and now ye fee (he follows him22 The LORD’S TRUMPET foundingin a great Jlorm; I ■would have you to take this home-with you, That free grace is no broker of perfons.Chrift -will not call axuay the xvorll of you that is thefaints that xvill follow him in a form, he hath doneyou as good a turn as he did to Mary Magdalene, al¬though you have not been as rcally,poff fed with thedevil as fhe was, yet ye have had fame grievous luftsand domineering idols that hath raged within you, thathe hath C. often out or fubdued, and helped you throwthat hath fadly oppreft you: therefore it concerns younow to follow him, and bide by his back, noxv in thisJlormy blaft in Scotland the day.I3ut what think ye of our great folk in Scotian1 atthis time, our lords and lairds, and ladies? the flormfoon beat them from Chrift’s back. I’ll tell you whatour great folk in Scotland is like, They are even likefo many ladies going to fea in a calm day in a boatfor their pleafure; but as long as the fea is calm andthey fee the ground, and no fear of hazard, they bidthe boatman row out; but whenever the wind blowsa little, and the waves begin a little to rife and fwell,and they begin to lofe fight of the ground, then theycry, Fy in to the {bore again. Secondly, Our greatfolk in Scotland, both nobles, gentles, minifters andprofefibrs, and all ranks in Scotland, all followed ourLord at the back when the wind was fair, but when¬ever the florm began to blow upon our Lord’s face,all quat his back for the moll part, and made in tothe next fhore again. But and ye will wait on a■while patiently, perfecuted people t)f God, God fhallbe even with thefe blaids all of them e’er long. Ofirs, there is few Uriah’s now in our days: worthyUriah would not fleep in his bed when the ark ofGod was in the fields, and the people of God in thefields : there is few fo now in our days, and fo vviilbe feen of it e’er all be done. I’ll tell you, firs, eafeis never good for the kirk of God, and the people ofGod thrives ay heft under faddefl perfecution ; it hathbeenan ALARM to Great Britain awe/Irelar**.been the experience of the kirk and people of God inal! ages. Worthy David play’d a fad fport one morn¬ing with his cafe, it had been good for David thathe had been in the fields that night: he not onlycommitted adultery that morning and alfo murder ;hut he thought to have fathered his ill gotten baftardupon worthy Uriah; an til turn makes ay way foranother : it is fo with our great clergy folk the day,vile apollates as they are I warrant many of ourgreat clergy folk, all the ill turns that they do, theyfather them ay all upon the Bible, and makes ay theBible their warrand, the council and clergy all doesthis, even when they condemn the faints of God, andtakes their lives for owning the caufe and covenantof Jefus Chrift, and for owning his kingly govern¬ment in Scttlandy which thefe miserable apoflateshath taken from him, and confented that it fhould betaken from him this riay in thefe lands. I fay theywill caft up the Bible in fo doing, and will fay theyhave their warrand from it, both council and prelates,and indulged; but they deceive themfelves, and mocksthe Lord in fo doing, for which he fhall be avengedon them e’er long. But I’ll tell you how they dowith the Bible, even as a fhipmafter or fhipcarpenterdoes with the great planks when they build a fiiip,they put them in the fire, and bows them to the ufethey would have them : but do not ye fo, but let theB.ble ftand regiftrate as God hath fet it; and for yourwarrand, look Rev e tat ion xxii. at the clofe, He thataddeth or dimimjhethy fee. See what fentence theSpirit of God puts on them. O that fad defectionthe want of the right obfervation of thefe things hathoccafioned in Scotland, fmee the fad ftorm began toblow upon the poor church O the many vile hypocrites the church of Scotland hath brought forth ;they are mother-bairns but not faiher-bairns, vile baf-tards as they are, now tearing their mother's flefftwith their hands, and O but that is unnatural like.I trow24 The LORD’S TRUMPET foundingI trow and any of us had our mother lying, it weremore unkindly for us to run away and leave her, itwere more kindly for us to ftay and hold up herhead while fhe were a dying. But, indeed, our mi-nifters and profeflbrs hath not done fo in Scotland,they have fled and left their dying mother, they havefled to other places for fhelter, and fled in under in¬dulgence, and fled to other nations under a pretenceto preach the gofpd; but the truth is, I am afraidthat it be faid by God at length, that it was for theback and the belly that many of them hath done fo,and to fhun fuflering for Chrift, for which they fhallfmart e’er all be done: there was work enough athome for them to have flayed at home with their dy¬ing mother. O fe«ure Kngland and Ireland, yourday of vengeance haftens fail from the Lord.Well, you that are the puffer ers for Chriji in Scotlandlook vjhat -worthy David fays, Pfalm xvii. and lajiverfe. David had as meikle -wealth in the -world (cafehonours, pleajures, and a throne J as any of them hath,the Lord fays to David, l have fetched you from keep¬ing the ews with young. 1 gave you pleafures, athrone, and a kingdom, and dominion over your ene¬mies : and -what -would you have more, fays God toDavid ? It is true, Lord, fays David, 1 have receivedall that, hut all that is not my portion : 1 will not givea goat-horn for it all in comparifon of that noble fatis-faction lJhall have in the morning of the refur re FI ionwhen I awake I fhall be fatisfied with thy likenefs.uome fujferers for Chrijt, ye Wall have a bony encou¬ragement in fpite of them all: up your heart* withthe faith of believing thf 'e things. The poor believ-ing per leaded kirk in Scotland is now aftc.k patientunder Chriffs hand But. 0 blejfed Jhall they >- thatJhall be privileged to be Jharers of the bleffed reforma¬tion : that glorious work of reformation of that man-child which this ftek travailing woman Jhall bringforthan ALARM to Great Britain and Ireland. 25forth 0 we long to live to fee thefe glorious daysthat [hall he in thee, 0 Scotland, e'tr it be long. OnceScotland fent out her glory to all land* round about.Now JIjc Jits as a widow, and few to take her by thehand: but yet her hujland will not forfake her, butwill yet return again to Scotland, and he Jhall fendout her glory to all lands* round about, and more glo~rioufly than ever Jhe formerly did.tine now, firs, in the next place, the note that Iwould have you to take home with you is this, Apoor believer gets never a bonnier blink of JefusChrift nor when the crofs lies heavieft between their(boulders, for fuffering is the ready way to glory, andthis is the experience of all the cloud of witneflesthat hath fuffered for Chrilt can tellify : and there¬fore, faint not in the wry for what bloody adverfariescan do to you. Now people of God in Scotland, thereis another thing that I have to tell you, and that isthis, I would have you to get prefervatives, for yewalk in a peftilentious air, and are nearer unto ha¬zard nor ye are aware of. If any of you were going’throw a city where the plague were hot, ye wouldfeek fomething to be a prefervative to put in yourmouths and nofes to keep you from being infeftedwith the fmrll. There will be need of this in Scot¬land e’er long firs. I know ye think me but a foolfor faying things, but I man tell you this in the nameof the Lord, who fent me this day to tell you thefethings, that e’er it be long, the living (hall not be ableto bury the dead in thee, O '•cotland, and many amile (hall ye go and ride, and (ha l not fee a firehoufe,but ruinous waltes for the quarrel of a broken cove¬nant, and wrongs done to the Son of God in Scotland;and then the teftimony of a good confcience will bea good feaft in that day.But now people of God, the prefervative that Iwould have you to get againft that woful day, is inthat fecond epiltle of Peter, iii. chap. 18. ver. ButD grow26 The LORD’S TRUMPET foundinggroiv in grace, and in the kncrwlettgc of our Lord JefinChriji, isc. tlnd 1 trow that wiii be a noble pre~fervative. Now people of God in Scotland, I havegood news to tell you, but it is only to you that isthe godly^ if once he love you, he will never changeyou. Rut wicked folk, break not your neck on this,and vet you that are the people of God, be not tooforward on fullering, except that ye be fine that hecall you to it. O faith Liter, Mafier, I-will die forthee. Peter was too forward; Stay man, fay Chrift,till once I bid thee: and I trow Peter got the breadthof his back to learn him more wit in time to come.The thing that I would have you to obferve is this,That nothing lefs than a fall will humble a prefurop-*tious profeflbr : therefore be humble all of you beforethe Lord. The apollle fays, Beware, take heed: foI fay, Beware, take heed the day. There is many alittle ferry-boat going through Scotland. I ake heed,people of Gcd that ye go not aboard in them, for theywill fink you. There is likewife many crofs windsto blow you off Chrift’s Poore: but if ye would waitpatiently, perfecuted people of God, the Lord is aboutto raife a northern blafl on thtfe blades that (hall raifethem off their creeks, and loofe their plough that ioplowing deep in our Lord's acres in Scotland.Now thefe miniflers that is fallen blent at this fin-ful blaft of the finful command of thefe finful magi-flfates, tell them, people of God, that they have cen-fented full) to take Cbrill’s crown off his head, andfet it upon the head of a profane man : put them toit either to own their mihiffry, or to renounce it, nowwhen it is come to this pufh in Scotland; arid now,firs, if any of you would bide by Jefus Chrift in thisftorm, -try how ye hare covenanted witn Inm andhow ye have clofed the bargain with him, and uponwhat terms : but 1 trow there is many of you in thisage, that is like young daft folk that runs fall toge¬ther, and marries, but never lays their account how&n ALA.RM to Great Britain and Ireland. 27Vthey wilt keep houfe, but prefendy they fall to beg¬gary and poverty: I trow it falls out to be fo withmany of you that is the piofetTors in this generation:ye take up your religion, and ye wot not how, andye cannot give an account how ye came by it I’lltell you, firs, ye will bide by Cliriil’s back no longerthan a ftorm blow, then ye will quat his back, anddeny his caufe: ye had need to take heed to this, itwill ruin your fouls in the end of the day. But i willtel! you more, firs, the right way in covenanting withGod is, when Chrift and the believer firft meets, ourLord gives himhislaws andhisftatutes, and hechargeshim not to quat a hoof, no, and ye fhould be torn in athoufand pieces, and the right covenanter fays, Amen.0 but, you people of God ylike fools) would have yourItock in your own hand, but and ye had it, ye wouldfoon debulh it, as your old father Adam did; Adamgot once his dock in his own hand, but he foon playedit at the capy-hole one morning with the devil at twoor three throws of the game; he loll you all that ishis pofterity. But now our blelfed Second ADaMhath our dock in guiding, and he tutors it better, hewill give you but as ye have need of it, people of God,in groats, iixpences, and Ihillings. But and he fetchany of you to the gaiiows for him, he will give you.dollars in your hands, ye lhall not need to fear, hewill bear your charges to the full.Now ye in this country-fide, e’er it be long, ye willall be charged to go and hear thefe curfed curates, andwhen ye are charged to go there, look the vth of theGalatians, ty and 20 verfes; 1 fay look to that fcrip-ture well, and think with yourfelves that day (poorlads and lafl'.s in this country-fide) that Inch a fool as1 have told you it, tha. go ug to hear thefe profanehirelings, would take you to hell as foon as idolatry,adultery, witchcraft, or any of thrfe fins which isnamed in that place I have cited to you Bur now,perfecuted people of God, (cat not at tee cro.s, for28 The LORD’S TRUMPET foundingit is the way to the crown ; trouble and fullering hathalways been the lot ot the (aims, and began as foon asgrace did. zibet firft hanfelt the crofs, and many hathfollowed finer, and obtained the crown.And now, people of God, What are ye doing?the Pope and Papifis at Rome are rejoicing and burningbom.fires: they ate rejoicing that Britain and Irelandis coming home again to their ancient mother-churchas they cali thtmlelves. What are ye doing, people ofGod ? O for fuch a party to pray as Ejther and hermaidens, that was a bioody decree too, as there ismany now in Scotland. Now, people of God, be¬ware oi dipping with the wicked party; for, if youdo it, it will he hard for you to retraU again : forthefe curfed time feiving clergymen, when once theyjoin with the enemies, and tun in defeddton withthem, the devil learns them io many ettrfed (hilts todefend their knavery, that hardly a convidlicr, canreach them, and fo they go on, and m my of themv dl go to the pit in this age. And now, people ofGod in Scotland, What an ye doing: O piay fall;but I will tell you, though ye fhouid pray none, yetthe church of Chrift m Scotland fliall be delivered :the groan.ng of the famts and (he fighmg of the pri-foners,' and the innocent bloi d of his people; thecries of many widows and f-rberlefs in Scotland, andthe reproaches of the perfetu-ed pany in Scotland willput him to arife; the trampling of his glory, therenting of his crown violently from his head, willput him to arife.0*that there were a praying party now to wrefilewith him: and O that oid ami young would dealwith him to arife: and O that he vv.'idd give us fucha proof of his love at he gave to his peop’lt Ijiacl inEgypt : ye know he chole out Mofes tg lend down toEgypt to deliver h's kirk. Mofes had no will to go;No; fays Mofes, f am not eloquent Na, fa h heLord, Go tell them, I AM hath fent you : Well,<*7i ALARM fo Great Britain d/2J Ireland 29fays MofeSy that will not do the turn, they will notbelieve me: fays the Lord again to him, Pell themby the Name of GOD AuMlGH L'T 1 appeared totheir fathers ibrahamy IJaac amS. Jaccb, but by myname JEHOV \ti L was not made known to them ;that is anew name I have given you of my felf, andas 1 have given you that new name that I never gaveto none before, fo, teil my people in Egypt, that be¬fore they be not delivered, j will do that 1 never didbefore fnice the creation of the world. Now themeaning of the word JEHOVAH in the originaltongue is, / the Eternal God from all Eternity. Now,1 am the Eternal God, and lhall be to all eternity thefame. But 1 ken fome of you has has heavy thoughtshere, if this can be applicable to Scotland's cafe theday, yes, fm, as the Lord lives, or he have not Scot¬land delivered, he will work a miracle that hewrought not before, who lives to fee it.Now, firs, would ye know, if ye be right fy.mpa-thizers with the broken-work of God in Scotland,ye mult try if it be your heavy thoughts when yelie down and when ye arife, and all the day long, asye go out and when ye come in : if it be fo, it is agood mark: ye ken Nehemiah, when he was withthe cap:ires at Babylon they were corning and goingbetween Jenifilem and Babyionm two’s and three’s,with fad and lorry hearts forfhe defoladons of thekirk• of God : the horieft man got a grip of one or two ofthem in a morning, and when thny told him of thedelolrtion of Jerufalem, and oftheplac, where theirlathers praifed God; and howihe walls of JeruJahmwas broken down, and ihe gates thereof burnt withfire, and the remnant of t!v Lord’s people in greatreproach, and contempt, and afflhfhon : it put hispleafures far from him, and both meat and drink tora good while as ye may fee Nehemiah chap i 3. and4 verfes Now firs, there was a great number wentput of Egypt with the kirk, a mixed multitude follo w¬ingjo Tlw LORD’S TRUMPET foundinging to the red fea: Wherefore was it? it was becaufe£hey had feen many miracles in Egypt, but they wen tnot over Jordan, but fell in the wiidernei's, and diedfor their fins : their hearts v/as not right with God,as many of this generation is. I warrand you ourLord had a thick back in Scotland about thirty orforty years ago, of minifters and profefiprs when theday was fair; but when the ftorm began to blow,Chrill’s back grew very thin : the rninidcrs left himand fled in 10 the indulgence under the enemies wingsfor fhelter; and many profefibrs followed them forcafe and love 10 the back and the belly. But waiton, ptople of God, a little, and God fliall give thema roufe e’er long : but I fear, when God comes tocall , the roll of Scotland, that he fincf many blanks,dead minifters and dead profeflers, dead men andwomen, though going on their feet.Now UTS, as I fuid before, that if ye will followhim in this ftorray blaft, he humble and much deniedto your own things, for a proud piofeflbr nothing lefsnor a fall will do his turn. And, now lirs, take heedwhat years doing, for it is a ftrange time we live in(fj to fpeak) it is hard keeping touches with God,now when he is travelling up and down feveral {hiresin Scotland, and faying to this man and that woman.Go feal my truths with your blood.. He hath takenfew out of the (hires of Galloway or Garrick to afcaffbld to witnefs for him yet, l think we fhould becounted with the reft of the kingdom, and yet ye kennot what is coming. I pray you, if become to fecka teftimony from any of you, deny him not, for hedenied none of you that is the elect, when ye werebetween the lining and the winning.And now, firs, I leave thefe truths on all of you :I dare not for my very foul flatter with you, not know¬ing how foon ye and I both may be cited before thetribunal of God. And now 1 charge you to joinwith none of thefe time-ferving hireling minifters.an ALARM to Great Britain and Ireland. 3 %and that curfed fupremacy that they {land on, for itwill ruin them. And now I pray you take heed whenthereisfomucherror going thro’the land, wreftle withGod to keep you flraight and ftedvaft, adhering inyour judgments and your hearts to the covenantedwork of reformation : and as for thei'e indulged mi-nifters, although they preach feme truths, yet theSpirit of the Lord follows not what they preach toblefs it, for what they fpeak fiom the VVotd is notfeafonable nor living truths in denying times, fuchas thefe are, and which our times are fallen in.And now, people of God, I have this to tell you,and fo I leave you, That there is as glorious dayscoming to Scotland yet, as ever was, and th*t thechildren of the perfecuird captivity fhall be the be¬ginning of a glorious kirk yet in Scotland, and fliallbe fo zealous for the reproached truths of God, thatthey fiiall be ready, if they meet thefe minifters thathath betrayed tiic work of God; I fay they fnail beready to flor.e them with ftones, and that fhall bemade out in Zechariah xiii. 4. J hat they fnall notwear a rough garment to deceive any more as nowthey have done in Scotland, and in all thefe lands.And now the Lord lumfelf blefs thefe things untoyou, and make you ftedfaft that you be not kd awaywith the apofiacy of the time; and ihefe tim.e-lervingminifters, that Demas like, hath forfaken the way ofthe Lord, and embraced the orefent world.Mow the Lord himfeif make you confider thefethings, and fallen a convidfion of them upon yourhearts, that ye may be watchful and ftedfaft to theday of his coming.f'Now unto the Lord, -who is able to keep you fromfalling, be ever la fling praife. Amen-.12 -^Prediction by Mr. Ricl^ard Camerbn.J Prediction by Air. Richard Cameron, being a Paf-/age of a Sermon, preached at the Graffwater-fide,/outh from Cumnock, July 20//&, 1680, daysbefore his death.THER E are three or four things that I hat'e to tellyou this day, which I mult not omit, becaufe I■will be but a breakfaft fome hour or another, to theenemy, and my work will be finilhed, and my timeboth.The Firfl is this, As for king Charles, who is nowupon the throne, after his death, there lhall not be acrowned king of the name of Stuart in Scotland.Athing. There fliall not be an old covenanter’shead above the ground, thatfwore thefe covenants withuplifted hands in Scotlandf/zr ye get the reformationfet up in Scotland.A third thing, a man fhall ride a fummer-day’s jour¬ney within the (hire of rltr, ancT lhall not fee a houfereek, or a cock crow, e’er ye tre’ reformationj andfeveral other (hires in Scotlane ,d'il . ..s ’ll.A/ctrrr/6 thing,The rod that the Lord ^iil make i.Tftruments of, (hall be the French,and the Frenchking,together with a party in this land joining with them ;hut ye that (land to the feftimony in that dav, be notdifcouraged at the fewnefs pf your number; whenChrrll comes to fet up his work in Scotland, he will notwant men anew to work for him; yea, he will chapupon the greatert man in A\ Scotland, and he will bethe greatelt Malignant in it, and he will fay, Sir, letalone this Babel building, for 1 have another piece of ’work to put in your hand ; and he will gar him workwhether he will or not : R-yniry be that he will con¬vert the man, and give him his foul for a prey; andthere is many of you that is my hearers this day, that(hall live and fee thefe tilings accompliih’d. Andafter thefe defelations are over, ye fliall fee the noble-tnen and gentlemens bouts ruined, fo that the nettleswill be growing out of both their bedchambers, orye die, and the memory and pofterity of them fhallpetifa from the earth, and from under the heavens,F / A / 5.