Proposals for Original Publications.Will be Published, by the Editor of The “Historyof the Witches of Renfrewshire”, as soon as a suffi¬cient number of Subscribers comes forward, to defraythe expence of Publishing, an Original Work of 6dpages, Duodecimo, price Sixpesce common, and oneShilling fine.The History of the Witches of Ayrshire,Among which are the notorious Maggy Osborne, theWitch of Ayr, and Witches of Kilwinning, who suffer¬ed death for Witchcraft during the 17th. century.The History of the Witches of Ayrshire will formpart second of a national work, “ The History ofthe Witches of Scotland,” to be completed in33 parts. The History of the Witches of each countywill occupy a Part by itself. Of this national work“ The History of the Witches of Renfrewsliire” is al¬ready published-This work will contain a great variety of OriginalCurious and Interesting Matter, taken from ancientrecords, &c. which have cost both expence and trouble.Walter Scott, Esq. Hogg, the Ettrick Shepherd,&c. have long amused the public, with their own ima¬ginary poetical flights about witchcraft : But the“ History of the Witches of Scotland, in 33 parts,”will exhibit witchcraft in its true and genuine col¬ours, as it really was supposed to exist.As the Editor is determined not to print a singlecopy of this work more than is subscribed for, andin order to prevent pirated editions, he intends to enterthe work itself in Stationers’ Hall; therefore personswishing to possess a cheap copy of “ The History o/the Witches of Ayrshire" will now avail themselves olthe present opportunity of subscribing for it ; other¬wise, they will have themselves to blame, should theyafterwards not be able to purchase a copy but at anadvanced price, if it be possible for one to be got.1). Macarter & Co, Printers, Ayr.That this is not uncommon, with regard to local His¬torical Publications, Booksellers and Literary Charac--tors well know. For example, a copy of Semple’s.History of Renfrewshire might have been purchasedfor one Shilling, but now a copy of it cannot be hadfor half a guinea.Persons subscribing for either the “ History of thelWitches of Ayrshire”, or the History of the Witch¬es of Renfrewshire”, may be gratified, if they please,with a sight of some of the ancient and modern manu¬scripts from whence these works were composed.2. The Memoirs of Welford, to which are added!several poems and songs, by a Gentleman of great;Literary Talent in Paisley.The Memoirs of Welford. is a fine sentimental No¬vel, and is thought by good Judges to be equal, if notsuperior to McKenzie's “ Man of Feeling”.3. Rational Recreations, a great collection of Curio-isities. Price 1 s. fine, and 6d. coarse copy.4. Paisley Repository, Price Is.Also orders will be received for the TransparentSlate. Different prices. This excellent new inven¬tion besides saving a great expence in paper, tendsgreatly to facilitate the acquisition of penmanship tothe young student. It is also of the greatest utility inthe first rudiments of Drawing. It may likewise beused for all the purposes of a common Slate.- Zion’s Traveller; or.-the Soul’s Progress to Heaven.By,Mi'. William Crawford, Minister of the Gospel,Wilton. Author of the' “ Dying Thoughts”, Price 6dTyro’s Orthographical and Numerical, Exercises, 2d(Ej’ Books iaken in'exchange for any Books men¬tioned in thd.Gatalogue herewith.* 1SUBSCRIBERS’ NAMESfor the History of the Witches of Ayrshire.wtmmnr