GLASGOW,Printedhy J. & M. ROBERTSON, SalttoirW7802.THE ... , /MERCHANT’S SON'A N D T H E , *BEGGAR WENCH. To which are added^THE P.RAISES OF WINE. .ABSENCE ILL TO BIDE.JOHNNY and MARY.The BRAES of YARROW.The Merchant’s Son, and the Beggar-wench.YOU Gallants all, I pray draw near.And you a pleafant jeft {hall hear,How a poor beggar-wench of Hull,A merchant’s fon ot York did gull. Fa,One morning on a certain day.He cloth’d bimfelf in rich array,And t^ok. with him, as k was told,The fum of fixty pounds in gold. Fa, &c.So mounting on a prancing fteed,He towards Hull did ride with fpeed,Where in his way he chanc’d to feeA beggar-wench of mean degree. Fa, &c.She aiked him for fome relief.And faid, with feemiug tears of grief.That (he had neither houfe nor home,Eut for her living was forc’d to roam. &c.He feemed to lament her cafe.And faid. Thou haft a pretty face:If thou wilt lodge with me, he cry’d.With gold thou (halt be fatisfy'd. Fa, &c.Her fitence feem’d to, give cohfent|So to a little houfe they went.Ike landlord laugh’d to fee him kifsThe beggar-wench sncl ragged mtfs. Fa5 ?tc.: ( 3 >He needs maft have a {upper d reft.And call’d for liquor of the beft^And there they tofs’d off butnpc^ free.The jolly beggar-wench and he. Fa, &c*A dofe (he gave him as *tis thought.Which by the landlady was bought j - *For all the night he lay in bed,Secure as if he had been dead. Fa,'&c*Then did (he put on all his clothes.His bat, his breeches, and his hofe,His coat, his perriwig likewife.And feiz’d upon the golden prize. Fa, See.Her greafy petticoat and gown.In which fhe rambled upland down,She left the merchant's fon in lieu.Her bag of bread and bacon too. Fa, &c«Down ftairs like any fpark Ihe goes,Five guineas to the hoit the throws,And fmilirtg. then fhe went away,And ne'er was heard of to this day. Fa, Stc*When he had took his long repofe.He look’d about and mifs’d his clothes*And law her rags lie in the room.How he did ftorm, nay fret and fume. &c.Yet wanting clothes and friends in town.Her greaiy petticoat and go*n %He did put on, and mounted flrait.Bemoaning his unhappy fate*. Fa, Src.( 4 )You would have laugh’d tc fee the drefs.Which he-gras in ; yet nc’erthelcfs,He homeward rid, and often fwore,He*d never kifs a beggar more. Fa, &c.THE PRAISES OF WINE.E T a fet of fober aflearail again ft the joys of drinking,While water, tea, and milk agree,to fet cold brains a-thinking:Pow'r and wealth, beauty, health/Wit and mirth in wine are crown’d $Joys abouaJ: pleafure’s found.Only where the glafs goes round.The ancient fedls on happia&fs,iall diiferM in opinion;But wifer rules of modern fchoo!s,in wine fix. their dominionWine gives the Inver vigour.makes glow the cheeks of beauty,Makes, poets write, and foldiers fight,and friendfhip do its duty.W >ne was die only Helicon*whence poets are long liv’d fo;’Fwas no other main than britk champaigtwhence Venus was deriv’d too.When heaven in Pandora’s box,all kinds- of ill had fent us,Jn a merry mood, a bottle of goi*d.was cork’d up to content us.Al! virtues wine is nurfc to,of ev’rjr vice deftroyer ; ■% ' .Gives dulicrd/s wit, ^akes juft the cit,truth forces from the lawyer.Wine fets our joys a-fiowing,our care and forrow drowning :.Who rails at the bowl, is a Turk in’s foul,and a Chriftian ne’er (horrid own him.A B S E N C E ! L L to BIDE.YE fhepherds fo cheerful and gay,whole flocks never carelefsly roam :Should Corydon’s happen to Ifray,Olj! call the poor wanderers home.Allow me to mufe and to figh,nor talk of the change that I find $Ncne once was fo watchful as 1,—I have left my dear Phillis behind.Now I know what it is to have ft rove,with the tortures of doubt and defire ;What it is to admire and to love,and to ieave her we love and admire.Ah ! lead forth my flock in the morn,and the damps of each ev’ning repel;Alas! I am faint and fo/Iorn,— 1 have bid my dear Phillis farewd.Since Phillis vouchfaf’d m$a look,I never once dreamt of flty vine :May l lofe both my pipe and my crook,if I knew a kid that wa5 mine.I prize ev’ry hour that went by,beyond all that pleas'd me before :But now they are part, and i figh,and I grieve that I priz’d them no more.But why do I languUh in vain ?why wander thus penfiveiy here ?Oh ! why did I come from the plain!where I fed on the futiles of my dear!They tell me my favourite maid,the pride of the valley is flown jAlas! where with her I have ft ray'd,I could wander with pleafure alone.When forc'd the fair nymph to forego,what anguifli I felt at my heart;Yet I thought,—but it might not be fo,*twas with pain that (he faw me depart* •She gaz’d as I flowly withdrew,r.y path l could hardly difcern;So fweetly ihe bade me adieu:I thought that flie bade me return.The pilgrim that joutnies all day,to vifit feme far diftant flirine jIf he bears but a relique away,is happy, nor heard to repine.Thus widly remov’d from the fair,where my vows, my dtvotion I owe,Soft hope is the rel que l bear,and my fobce wherever l go.< 7 )//JOHNNY and M 0 LI. Y.DO WN the burn and tbro* the mead^his golden locks wav’d o’er hts brow,Johnny lilting, tun’d his reed,■ • and Wary wip’d her bonny movi’.! Dear Ihe lo’ed the well known fong,while her Johnny blythe and young,Sung her praife the whole day long.I Chor. Down the burn and thro* the mead,hts golden locks wav’d o’er his brow,Johnny, lilting, tun’d hit reed,and Mary wip’d her bonny tnou*#i Ccftly claithes (he had hut few;of rings and jewels nae great (lore,I Her face was fair, her love was true,and Johnny wifely wilh’d nae mair:I Love’s the pearl the (hepherd prizeso’er the mountjim, near the fountain,ILove delights the fhepherd’s eyes.Down the burn, etc.I Gold and titles give not health,^ and johnny cou’d not thefe impart;IYoutHiV Mary's greatefl wealthwas Hill her faithfu’ Johnny’s heart}iSwcet the joys that lovers had,great the treafure, fweeLthc pleafure, '(Where the heart is always kind.Down the burn, etc.T PI E BRAES O F Y A R R O W.TH E fon jnft glancing thro’ the trees,gave light and joy to ilka grove,And pleafura in each fouthern breeze,awaken hope and numbering love ;' When Jeany lung with hea.’ty glee,to charm her uihforne marrow.My bonny laddie gang wi* me,we’ll o’er the braes o’ Yarrow.Young Sandy was the blytheft fwain, * ;that ever pip’d on btoomy brae;Nae lafs cou’d ken him free from pain,fae gracefu’, kind, fae fair and gay*And Jeany fur^ with hearty giee,to charm her wtnfome marrow,My bonny hddie gang \v‘t’ me,we'll o’er the braes o’ Yarrow.He kifs’d and lo’ed the bonny maid,her fpafkling een had his hcait3Nae lafs the youth had e’er betray’d,‘ nae fear had fhe, the lad nae a"..And Rill (he fung with hearty gke,to charm her winfome isanow,My bonny laddie gang wi’ me,we’il o’er the braes o’ Yarrow.Glafgow, Printed by J. & RobertfoiSaltmarket, rSo^. \