LIFE AND ADVENTURESI fc F ■ 'Sir WiiJlni Wallace,.GENERAL and GOVERNOR or SCOTLAND.CONTAINING,! A particufar Account of his moft femarkab’e| Battles with King Edward (i.cngfhm’ksjjAnd of. his mournful Fate .at London, after! He was betrayed into the Hands of thej Englilh: Where he was put to Death, andI his Body quartered, and.fern to differentTowns in Scotland.L ’ ' i -JW f" ♦. ;WITHn Account of the Battle of Bannockbur.nswhich was fought June 24th,, 1314,GLASGOW, ^ :MINTED SY J A N D M R O'BERA'SO-N.M D r r V r» » Vhistory orWILLIAM WALLACE.g ',I7E hiftory of Sir Wr:r.LiAM Wallace, with theother of the valiant King Robert Bruce, whichfolloweth upon the end of it, and of which this is an a-bndgement, was written in Latin by Mr. John Blair, chap¬lain to Wallace, and t.urned into Scots metre by one call¬ed Blind Harry, in the days of King James IV. and thelu’ftory of Bruce was written by Mr. John Barbour, arch¬clean of Aberdeen, a learned man, in the days of K Da¬vid Bruce and Bobert Stewart, and both together containa relation of the moft famous war that ever fell out in theille of Britain, fought moll valiantly for the fpace of 40■years, between the two realms of Scotland and England;the one unjuftly purfuing; the other conftantly defendingthe liberties of their country. During which broils, there 1happened great alterations, both in the general Hate of®this kingdom, and in the overthrow acid advancement of|i,particular families, the cne for betraying, tire other forimaintaining their country’s freedom and welfare.That the whole hiltory may be more clear, we have]thought good, in a fhort introduction, to fet down the cauf-cs, occalions, and the molt memorable paffages of this war. IcIn tjie year 1285, Alexander the Hid. king of Scotland, being fuddenly taken away by a fall front his horfe, tir iffue cf his body, and in hirr niat Kinghorn, without any illue ct his Uodythe whole poflerity of his father Alexander the 11grandpthei William the Lyon, being extinft, the rigliof the crown fell to the heirs of David earl of Huntingtojand Garioeh, youngeft brother to William the Lyon, Hhad left three daughters, the eldell Margaret, manied tAllan Lord cf Galloway ; the fecond, Ifabel, to RobeTrgce, (firrftimed the noble,) Lord of finnandale a1 Cleveland : the ycungeit, Ada, man if d Hemy haflingl;an Lngl.’ihman ; who having no juft title to the crowifthe content! ion relied betwixt the pofterity of the two elddaughters ; t< 1 Allan, Lord of Galloway, leaving no lo:by his wile Margaret ; his eldell daughter DornagillaGallow. y, married John Baliol, a man of great power atlands both in Scotland, England and France, and bareImp John Baliol afterwards King. Robert Bruce, by 1:vile Ifahel of riuntingteu), had Robert Bruce who cato he carl of Garrick, by marrying Martha, heritrix thesTHE HISTORY OF, &c~ ,and wl»o contended with John Baiioi, and died ;n the.i,bie of Wallace’s wars. His eldeft fon, Robert Bruceij leceeded King of Scotland.i Dornagilia of Galloway claimed the cfown, a.s heir toI largarpt, eldell daughter to prince David. Robert Bruce,irl of Garrick, albeit fen to Ifabcl the fecond daughter,tt, contended that, in feudal fucc ’ffion, thefirft male ought; fucceed before a woman (landing in the fame degree, as: fon escludeth his fitter from fuccefiion, altho’ (he be el-er ; and therefore he and Dornagilla of "Galloway, fland-lig in the fecond degree from prince David, he oughtb be preferred to her: as for her fon, John Baliol, heiiuld claim no right bat by her, and likewife was a de-ree further off from prince David. The like pradtice hadlien out fome 10 years before, in Hugh the fourth dukef Burgundy, whofe eldelt fon Hugh, (dying before hisrther) left a daughter, Jola, countefs of Nevers, who.aimed to fucceed her grandfather Hugh IV. Notvvith-ianding Robert, fecond fon to the fame Hugh IV. wasreferred to her, and fucceeded the duke of Buccundy: iften the fecond fon, in feudal inheritance, face 1 beforele eldetl fon’s daughter, far more ought the nephew to:icceed before the niece. The right of fuccefllon being thus!iade doubtful, the competitors were fo powerful, that they(krew the great ell part of the kingdom into two eqsal fac*Hoiis; fo that it feemed impoffible to fettle the controver-jr at home, without running into a pernicious civil war.| The dates of Scotland, to prevent this mifehief, thoughtli: fitted to fumbit the arbitrament of the plea £o Edward. firnamed Long Shanks, king of England, and that up-|n divers weighty reafons : for lie and his fatlier K. Henry| II. being joined by many alliances., of bands and friend-Ji iip to the two lad kings of Scotland, had lived in great||mity and concord with them, receiving and iiiterchang-bg many favours and kind duties. The two competitorsIfo, ’nice and Balidl, had qs great land* in England as inScotland, fo that he, and he only, was able to make them,land to reafetn. Finally, the bates of Scotland not beingble to determine the plea, there was no prince befidesnote powerful, and, in appearance, more* like to compofeL: controverfy, withont*great blood-fh-al. 1'his motionas in fee ret very greedily embraced by K. Edward, hop-g, in fo troublefoaic a water, to find a‘gainful hlhlngicither hy drawing the kingdom of.Scotland under therect fubjtdlion, oral leall under his homage, as lord pamount and fuperior: Cotifidering the difficulty to detmine the queiliati at home, and the intereft he liad in b<parties, beipg (for a great part of their ellates) hfs vafliand fubjeCts: his great power alfo, having, befides Irelaria great part of France under his dominion, and the k:countries his allured confederates, gave him great encottagcment; neither wanted he great frieudUn'p in Scotianhaving at that time, many of the greatdl noblemen in Scolaud, vafials and feudaries to himfelf for many lands whithey held in England, partly for great fervices done•himfelf and his father, partly lying within Northumbland, and the border (hires, then held by the Scots in f«of England : Partly alfo by interchange of marriage aniucceffions between the two nations, which for a long tin jhad lived in great amity, as if it had been one kingdo:And to make the controverfy more fearful, he llirred uother 8 competitors bdides Bruce and Baliol, Florenearl of Holland (defcended of Ada) filler to William tlEyon ; Pa rick Dumbar earl of March ; Sir Walter RofsSir N colas Soules ; Sir Roger Mandeville ; Sir JohfCsimming of Badenoch, (thefe five were defcended cyounger daughters of Allan, lord of Galloway) Sir Wijiam Vifcie, begotten upon king Alexander lid's baltardaughter, but pretending to be ligitimate ; and John Hailxngs lord Abergaveny, defcended of Ada, youngeft daughter to prince David Huntington.Edward, having thusprepared matters, came to Berwickund met with the Hates of Scotland, to whom he promiled to decide the controverfy according to equity; and tliait might feem more likely, he brought from France fundr;of the moll famous lawyers of that age ; he chofe alfo on.cf the Hates of Scotland aflembled, twelve of the w:fefand moll honourable, to whom he joined the like numbeof Englifh, as aifefibrs to him in his arbitrament. S t tinmeeting, by the doubtful anfwers of lawyers, and the numflher of new precedents, lie ejade the matter ysore difficult:and appointed a new convention at Norham, on t!ie bortier, in tl.e year following.Difficulties thus increafing, and the earl of Holland ha'ving on foot a gl*e 't army, to take' the crown of ScotEnc?j y force, (which their own liories affirm, to have landed| SIRWILLIAM W AJ L L A C F. t;'ji in Scotland, and to have intercepted ibrne llrenirtlii}I t!ie meeting of Norham, king Edward dealt fecretly, andI; by fit agents, with the Hates of Scotland, for 'hnnningj imminent dangers, to become his fobje&s : b.e, being de-feended of King David’s fitter, and fo but two degreesfurther from the crown of Scotland than Bruce or Baiiolwere. This being flatly refufed by all, be betook him tohis other defign. And fii ft dealt fecretly with Robert Bruce,j promifing to difeern in his favours, if he would take tbe| crown of Scotland holden of him, and do hjm homage for| it. But he ftoutly refufed to fubjeef a free nation to any4 overt lord; whereupon king Edward calk'd for John Ba¬lt iiol, who, knowing that he was not fo much favoured ofI the States of Scotland, eafily condefcended to king Ifd-1 ward’s defire, and was by him declared King of Scotland ;J the States, defirous of pence, conveyed him to Scoon, where.! he was crowned, anno 1291, and all, except Bruce, fvvoreI obedience to him. Thereafter Duncan Macduff, earl ofFife, was killed by lord Abernethy, (a man of great pow¬er in thofe times, allied both with the Cummings amt Ba¬iiol ;) the earl’s brother, finding the King partial in the ad-mini If ration of juflice, fummoned him to compear before1 the King of England in parliament; where being prefent,I and fitting befide King Edward, (after he had done him}[’ homage) when he was called upon, thought to nnfwtx by| a procurator; hut he was forced to rile, and Hand at theI bar This indignity grieved him greatly, he refdlved toI free himft If of this bondage. At the fame time war brenk-| ing out between England and France, king Edward lentambalTae’ors to the parliament of Scotland to fend aid to|] him, as now being their over-lord. There came alfo otherI ambafiadors from France, defiriug the ancient league to be| renewed. The King and the States of Scotland renewedI the league with France, which had retrained, inviolably|| k ept, for the fpace of 500 years before. The king of Eng-.j| land’s fuit was rejected, beeaufe the pretended fur; underIj and homage, was made by John Baiiol privately, wu boutj| the emfent of tire parliament. A marriage was alfo eon-J eluded bef ix't prince Edward Baliol, and a daughter ofIj Charles, earl of Valois, brother to the French king T'hf m.Edward having forefeen all thefe things, had drawn Ro¬bert Bruce, earl of Carrick, with his friends, (enemies toi Baliol) and divers noblemen of Scotland, who held I43J#S*' THE HISTORY OFof him in England, to bring inch forces as they could make, |to afiirt him in the French war ; but withal taking truce |with the French for fome months, he fuddenly turned his jforces deflined agaimT; France, towards Scctlai’.d. His na¬vy was'vanquifhcd at Berwick, and 18 of his Flips taken, jYet his land hoft, by the means of the Brucian fath'on, |land the Enghfhed-Scots noblemen, took the town of Ber- | 1wick with great daughter, and fhortly thereafter, Dunbar, |Edinburgh and Stirling. In, and about thefe caftles, he |had killed and taken captives the greateft part of the Scots |noblemen ; fo that croffiag Forth, the blow being fo fud- Iden, he found no preparation for refiftance, Bail'd furren- |dered himfelf to king Edward at Montrofe, and was lent fby him into England, where he remained captive till fuch |jtime as by intercefiion of the Pope, he was fet at liberty, !fvvearing and giving hodages never to return to Scotland,King Edward came to Scoon, and took upon him the ,crown of Scotland, as Forfeited by the rebellion of hishomager Baliol. He fent for the nobles of Scotland whoremained, that they, with fuch as were his captives, mightfwear homage to him as to their liege Lord aud King,thofe who refufed, were detained prifouers.King Edward, thinking that new all was fnre for himin Scotland, left John Plantagenet, (feme cal! him ^ar- ,ren), earl of Surry, and Sir Hugh Crefiingham treafurer,and returned to profecute the French war, taking fuch ofthe nobility of Scotland as he feared, along with him, withtheir followers. The great men of Scotland, being in thismanner either imprifoned by king Edward, »r fvvorn tohis obedienee, and tied thereto by reafon of the laivls hold-^en of the crown of England, the reft either fled into theilles or highlands, or thought it fuflicient to defend theirOwn till, better times.But while men of power neglected the public caufe ofthe liberty of Scotland, William Wallace, a youth of hon-'ou:able birth, being fon to Malcom Wallace of Ehlerfbe,but of mean power, having firil in private killed many Eng-liftimen of the gam’lons as he could overtake them, bythefe exploits, being fo encouraged, (being a man of in-vircible hardinefs, incredible ftrength of body and withalvery wife and cirenmfpedl) that be gathered his friends andneighbours, and by jeopardies and ftratagems, divers timescut off great numbers of tint enemy; the report thereofSIR WILX.IAM’W'ALLAC K.drew to him, fuch as affeifled the liberty and welfare of*•their country, and had courage to hazard themfclves forvindicating thereof. As namely the earl Malcom Lennoz,the lord William Douglas, (who had been taken caplive-atthe winning of Berwick, whereof he was captain, and lenthome r-'on affurance) Sir John Graham, Sir Neil Oamp-bel. Sir Chriftopher Seaton, Sir John Ramfay, Sir FergusBarclay, Andrew Murray, William Oliphant, Hugh Hay,Robert Boyd, John Johnftoun, Adam Gordon, Robert?Keith, Ronald Crawford younger, Adam Wallace. RogerKilpatrick, Simon and Alexander Frazers, James Craw¬ford, Robert Lauder, Scriminger, Alexander A uch nleck,Rutbven, Richard Lundie, William Crawford, ArthurBiffet, James and Robert Lindfay, John Cleland, Willir.rnKer, Edward Little, Robert Rutherford, 'Ihomas Hal-liday, John Tinto, Walter Newbigging, Gerdan Baird,Gutheries, Adam Currie, Hugh Dundafs, John Scot, Ste¬ven Ireland, Mr. John Blair, Mr. Thomas Grey, and othergentlemen with their friends and fervants ; who after fomevaliant exploits happily atchievcd, and an army of ic.c omen, led by Thomas earl of Lancafter to the earl of War¬ren, defeated by Wallace at Bigger, (holding an aifettiblyat the Forell Kirk) chofe Wallace to be warden of Scot¬land, and viceroy in Baliol’s place: In which office, he•fo valiantly behaved himfelf, that in a (hort fpace he reco¬vered all the ftrength on the border, and brought thefonth part of Scotland to good quiet.The Englifh fearing the lofs of a!!, fubtilly took trucewith Wallace for one year, beginning in February, In Junefollowing, thty proclaimed a Juftice eyre to be held at Glaf-gow and Air the 18th of that month, thinking to entrapWallace and ail his friends, and under colour of lav/, to cutthem off at the day appointed. All lauded men accordingto the cufiom, a fumbling to this court, the Englifh con¬demned th#m for felony, and hanged them prefently ; a-mongfl the red, Sir Ronald Crawford, Iheriff of Air, un¬cle to Wallace, Sir Bryce Blair, Sir Neil Montgomery,and many of the barons of Kyle, Cunningham, Garrick,and Clydefdale. Thofe who efcaped by flight, advertifedWallace, who chanced to come later than the red He nf-fembling fitch of th<,country, ^.s (deteding fo horrible afaft) extremely hated the authors thereof, in the beginningof the night, fecrelly entered into Air, fet lire to the placethe History ofwhere the Engliihmen, after that fa&, were fecurely fleep- |ing, and fuffered none to efcape. The garrifon of the caf- |tie iiTued forth to quench the fire, an ambufli, hid for the |purpofe, entered the houfe and made it fare. The next 8morning Wallace came to Glafgow, where the Lord Hen.. j|ry Piercy had retired from Air the day before ; him he 9-expulfed thence with great flaughter. The vidfory he fo Ihotly purfued, that immediately thereafter he took the i'caftle of Stirling, recovered Argyll, and Lorn, with thetown of St. Johnftoun, and country about; thence he trav¬elled thro’ Angus and Mearns, taking in all the (Lengths |until he came to Aberdeen, which he found forfaken by |the Englifh, who had fled by fea, with the lord HenryBeaumount, an Engliih lord, who had married the heretrixof the earldom of Buchan, named Gumming. Thus all the !north country was reduced to the obedience of Wallace, ,except the caftle of Dundee; while he lay at the fiege Jthereof, news came of the approach of the Engliih army, jled by'John earl of Warren and Stury, and Sir Hugh ,Crefungham with a great number of Northumberland menand fuch of the Scots as held with England, to the num-her of to.coo. Wallace having with him 10,000 menhardened in arms, met them befide Stirling, on the northPide of the Forth, which having no fords at that place, waspaffible only by a wooden bridge This he on purpofe hadcauftd to be weakened, fo that the one half of the holt be¬ing pnft, led by Creffingham, the bridge broke with thegreat weight of their baggage Thofe who were come o-ver, Wallace charged fuddenly, before they were put inorder, and cut the m'ofi: part in pieces, with their leaderCreffingham : the relt fee king to efcape were drowne^l inthe water. The earl of Warren, and thofe that efcaped,were afiailed by earl Malcom Lennox, captain of Stirlingcallle, and being h- -tly purfued by V/allace, hardly efcap¬ed, hlmfelf flying into I'umbar, a caille then belonging tothe earl of March. 1” this battle, fought the ijth of Sep- .tember, 1297, there dud no Scotfman of remark, but An¬drew Murray of Bothwell. ^J'lie tlnglifh garrifons hearing.of this difcbnrtfiture, fled from all places, fo t.hat before thela,»l of September, a*! the llretigtb.s of Scotland were re¬covered except Berwick and Roxburgh.After thofe victories he held a parliament at St. John-ftoun, as warden of Scotland, and fettled the whole conn-S I R. W I L L I A M \\f A I- L A C'E-. '| try, cauting the nobility to Avear to be faithful to t /•State, till fuch tinaea as they might condefcerri who th iu, J| be King: Earl Patrick; Dunbar refilling to acknowledge’1 the authority of this parliament, was chafed out of Scot¬land ; and becaufe the year by-paft, the ground had notbeen manured, and great famine threatened the land, Wal¬lace affembled a great holt, and entered England, wherehe remained ah the winter and the fpring following, livingi upon the enemies’ provilions, and epriching his foldiera byI their fpoil; during which time the Englilh durd never eru-» counter him in open field: Only at the firft entry. Kingf Edward, with a great army of raw foluiers, came againib;l him in the plain of otanmure; but perceiving the dilcip-l| line and hardy refolution of Wallace’s hoft, before they:| came nearer than half a mile, dr wv back his army and re-I tired ; Wallace, for fear of amhuih, kept his foldiers in; order, and purfued them not Thus King Edward left hiscountry to the mercy of a provoked enemy ; and notwith-I Handing that he promifed battle, yet he kept himfelf clofi;j. till a peace was concluded for five years, Berwick andi Roxburgh being rendered to the Scots.I Scotland thus enjoying perfect liberty, Wallace, beingearned!'.- re quelled by the French King, to the end thathis fpecial captains might be kept in military exercife dur-| ing the peace, failed over to France, with 50 of them inj his company. Fie was encountered on the way by Thomascl Charter-, (commonly called Thomas of Longueville,)| who, with 16 fail, infefled the feas: hut boarding Wallace’sClip, he was taken by him, and thereafter fought mofl va-j liantly under him and king llobert Bruce, for the liberty| of Scotland. After Wallace landed in France, he was em-! ployed in war againff the Engli.h, who at that time pof-| feffed the duchy of Guknne and Bourdeaux ; them he de-[ feated in fuudry ihirmifhes But in a few days he was call-; cd home by tome of his friends in Scotland ! for King Ed-1 ward, underllandiug his abfence, and pretending that hehad broken the peace in Guienne, dealt with Robert Brnckearl of Garrick, and his friends, and with fijch.noblemeuof Scotland as held lands in England, or envied Wallace’sglory telling, that it was a fliame fqr.them to fuffsr Wal¬lace a mean gentleman, to rule Scotland, while any of theblood royal did remain ; io promising his aifutance to Ro¬bert Bruce, he lent a great army into Scotland, and by theTHE HISTORY OFL :!p of Uie Bruciari fa£lioii, and Encjlithecl noblemen, betafily obtained the greateft ftrengths of Scotland. Wallacereturned the next furhoicr and, fecretly ainafTing a numberof his fpecial followers, who had lurked till his back-com¬ing, on a fudden furprifed St. johnftoun by a flrata^em ;and puifuing his victory hotly, chafed the Eflglifh out ofFife.' Upon the report hereof, all the rell of his followerscame from their lurking notes, by whole affiflance he re-cov.ced divers Itrength*. The lord William Douglas tookthe caille of Sanquhar by a ft rat age m, and finding tfte Engkliflt captains of the neareft garnfons coming to be liege him,lie lent fecretly to Wallace, who coming with his power.Hot only'raffed the fiege, but chafed all the Engliih gar-rifons out of thele quarters : from whence he came to theHorth parts, which he recovered with finaU dilK.jnlty, ex¬cept the ftrong cattle of Dundee, to which He laid fie-ge.'The King of England, grieved at the fortunate fueeefsof Wallace, and ttttderftanding that he was highly enviedby the earl of March, the Cummings, (the great eft fur-name then in Scotland) and divers ancient noblemen, (fromwhofe honour Wallace’s renown feenied to derogate') heftirred up Robert Bruce cider, and hie faction, perfuadingthem that Wallace was Bruce’s only competitor for thecrown. Having fo made a ftrong party for himfelt inthe next fpring he came with an army of 40,000 men,Scots and Englifh, to Falkirk, 6 miles Irom Stirling. TheScuts ‘army was very great,'being 30,000 ftrong, if theyLad been all of one mind. For John Cumming lord ofCumbernauld, (who had an eye to the crown) had per-fuaded the lord John Stewart of Bute, being tutor, andgrandfather by the mother, to the lord James Stewart otr I mmentfew, lately decettfed, to contend with Wallace for theleading of the van-guard, alledging that the fame belongedWallaceto the ’ord Stewart’s houfe by ancient privilegerefuting this, they parted one from another in high chaff,there remaining with him no more than 10,coo of his<;’d foldiers. Gumming with 1000 of his followers, af¬ter a fmall (hew of refillance, (led treafonably, leaving thevaliant Stewart inclofed by two battalions of the Eiiglilh,by whom, after he had fought valiantly for a long time, hewas cut off with all his follower?. Wallace with his partydefended themfelves valiantly, until they were fafely retir¬ed beyond the river Canon, lofing (beiides fome othe’rs)S r R W I L LIAM W ALL A C E. r, 'ijflie noble Sir Jobs Graharn, the sadft vJkat worthy o.i Scotland, next unto Wallace. Brace, whom the kinj, di[England had brought with all his friends intonhe field,j pretending to affi id him for recovery of his right fro si the| iifurper. Bruce, perceiving Wallace on the other fide theI Carron, defired to fpeak with him, and upbraiding himwith fo foolilh an ufurpation of the kingdom of Scotland,againft fo powerful a Action at home, aflifted by fo mightya king abroad. I, anfwered Wallace intend never to reignin Scotland, but finding my native country abandoned byyou and Baliol, who have the right to the crown, have fetmyfelf to defend my friends and neighbours, from the uh>K1 'uil tyranny and ufurpation of the king of England, whoetteth you forth molt unnaturally to tear the bo vels ofyour mother with your own hands. After divers fpeechesto this purpofe, Bruce, perceiving'the fraudful and tyran-ous dealing of king Edward, returned to the holt. Chenext morning Wallace, underllanding that the English ar¬my was weakly entrenched and in great fecurity, amafiiagwith his own army fuch as had efcaped, fet upon tliem inthe dawning before they could be arrayed, and killed ma¬ny : fo that the Englifh king returned at that time with¬out any further exploit. Bruce, remembring what he heardof Wallace, defired king Edward, according to his formerpromifes, to put hirr.in polfelfion of fo much of the kingdomof Scotland as then was under his power ; to whom he an¬fwered in the French tongue, ‘ Have we no more ado butconquer kingdoms for you.* By this fpeech the lord Bruceconceived fo great grief and anger, that within few dayshe departed this life without feeing his eldeft fon RobertBruce, afterwards King, he being kept for affurance of hisfather’s obedience in Calais caltle in France.After this unhappy battle, Wallace, ftriving to recoverfuch callles and itrength as King Ed ward had intercepted,foftnd fuch opposition and back -.rdnefs, by envious emu¬lators, that he returned to St. Johnftoun, and, in the af-fembly of the States, refigned his charge of warden, and.with 18 men palled again into France, according to a pro-mife at his return therefrom. This fell out at the end ofthe year i ^oo. The oppofite faction having gained theirdefire, chofe John Camming governor ; the rather becaufeking Edward had promifed to affilt him to the crown ofScotland. But he found him as great an enemy as he h idg-m THE HISTORY OFto Wai’ace. For, after 7 months trace, obtained hymeans of the French kin;*, Edward Cent Sir Ealoh God¬frey with a great army to fubdne the Scots, and to put anend to tire war, which they-expected would be eafy, Wal¬lace being now out of the way. John Camming, joiningwith the lord Simon Frafer, making 8000 or 0000 men,came to refill the "'.nglidi, wlio having waded the countryas far as Rodin, about 5 miles from Edinburgh, expectingno re 1:dance, divided themfdves into 3 parties, that theymight fpoll farther into the country. The Scots embracingthe occadon, fet upon the fird divifion, and eafilv difeom-fited them ; the fecund alfo, albeit dronger bv the joiningof thofe who fled, was after a long conflict put to the rout.By this the third divifon, coming to the revenge, put theScots to a great drait, as being forely wounded, wearied,and weakened, in the two former battles, and having tovbthdand a frdh enemy, of far greater number : hereuponthey were forced to kill all the captives, led they diould2did the enemy, and with their weapons to arm the bag¬gage men : and fettin ' forward both with courage and tie-cdlity, feeing no eicnpe, after a long and hard dglit, theyput.the enemy to flight. Phis was March "gth, 130-;.King Edward, fore incenfed by this eyil fnccefs, fent forRobert Bruce y ounger out of Calais, whom he perftnded,that he had fora long time, againd Wallace, defended hisfather’s right to the crown of Scotland: that having putWallace out of the way, he found the Cummings as greatenemies: Not with da nd in g, lie intended yet once more toput that enemy out of the way, and to fettle him in hiskingdom. The young prince believing him, caufed all his,friends and favourers in Scotland, to join with him, and. en¬tering the border, fpoded the country, and took divers oaf-ties'as far as Douglas Suin'- report that the Lady Dong¬les, named Ferras, an EngliTh woman, betrayed that cadleto the Bruce, who took .the lord William Douglas cap¬tive, witldall his children and goods. The ■ .ord himfelf waskept -prifoner in Berwick, and thereafter in York, wherehe died. Mean time, king Edyvard had prepared a mightyarmy, both by land and fea, with which he entered Scot¬land, and fnbdiled all before him while he came to Stirling,kept then bv S>r William O'iphan:, who after a long liege',.knowing of no relief, yielded the eaftle upon condition,that himftli and all that were with him, fhould pafs withS I R W I L L I A M W A L L A C E. t ?tlielr lives fafe : Notwithflan-ii'ig kinpj Edward kept fti’.ail the noblenen, together with the captain Sir WilliamOliphant; and fuch as would not fwear homage to hiin,(pretending to he the proteftetr of Robert I’ruce’s righ; )he fent prifonei's to I^ondon. Hav»ig in this caflle inter¬cepted divers of John Ctunming’s friends, he procuredthem to draw him to a parley with him ; in which hr foblinded him with the hopes of the kingdom, and with fearof utter undoing, that he joined himfelf and ‘tis friends tothe Engliih ; who, by this aoceflion, eafily palled foj-wa dwith the courfe of victory, as far as the utmoft bouu 's ofRofs: and in his hack coming, carried away with bi n in¬to England all hooks, regilters, hi (lories, laws and monu¬ments of the kingdom : and among others, the fatal mar¬ble chair, whereupon the former Scots Kings ufed to becrowned at Scoon, on which was engraven a prophecy,bearing, That zvbsrewr this (hair Jhoi^4 he transported, theScots fhould command there. He carried alfo with him allthe learned men and profdfors of Scotland, among othersthe famous Dodlor John Duns, furnamed Scotus, think¬ing thereby to difeourage and effe .inate the minds of theShots, that they fhould caft off all care of recovering theirliberty, the memory thereof being drowned in oblivion.At his return into England, he left his coufm, Sir Ay-mer Vailance, earl of Pembroke, viceroy, having fortifiedall the cafllcs with ftrong garrifons.The Scots who flood for the liberty c£’their country,being forfaken by John Gumming, fent earneft letteis toFrance to move Wallace to return. He was th n makuig! war upon the English in G-rienue ; but bearing the mif-J chiefs of his country, he obtain 'd leave of the French kingI to'return :• and fecretly .gather.ng forme of his old f iends,U recovered divers crules and towns in tb north, and hav-■ ing greatly increafed his army, brfieged St. johuftoun. tillfi it furrendered. But as he pioceeded in the cotirfr o' hisiij VK'lorics, he was betrayed by hi? fami iar f iend, Sir John| J^Ionteith, to Aytner de Valla nee* who fent liim into !tng-I land, where, by king Edward’s command, be wasgmt to1 death, and his body quartered, and feut into the principal1 cities of Scotland, to be fet up for a terror to others.1 Notwithftanding. this cruelty jtrevailed little for the af-Ifuriug of king Edward’s conqueR.new enemies arfipg1 whence he leall expected : for as he returned from his lullJIMhhCK£+ THE HISTORY OFjourney into rfcotiand, John Camming and Robert B^ucimeeting together, after a long conference on the rtate oftheir country, perceived, tjnt notwithftanding he had pro-ir.ifed to each of them apart his help to obtain the crownof .Scotland, yet his intention was only to ufe their aPdll-ance to conejuer and fecure it to himfelf, as he well declar¬ed, by fpoiling the country of all monuments? public andprivate. Hereupon they agreed, that Camming (hould quitall his rights to the crown in favours of Bruce, and thatBruce (hould give him all his lands for his affidance, andthis contrail was written and fealed by both parties. Up¬on this Bruce, watching an opportunity to rife in arms,left his wife and children in Scotland, and went to the courtof England. After his departure, Gumming (as it is re¬ported) either repenting himfelf of this agreement, or elfeendeavouring fraduleutly to oppofe his co-rival, and fo ob¬tain an eafier way to the kingdom, revealed their fecretcombination to Edward ; and in evidence of it, he fent himthe covenant figned by them both. Upon that, Bruce wasimpleaded as guilty of high treafon : he was forbidden todepart the court, and a private guard let over him to in-fpetk his words and adioris. The king’s delay to punilhh'.m for a crime fo manifeft, proceeded from a delire hehad to take his brethren too, before they had heard anynoife of his execution.Bruce advertifed of his danger bv the earl of Gloucefter(fome call him the.earl of Montgomery) his old Iriend,who had fent him a pair of (harp fpurs, and fome crownsof gold, as if he had borrowed the fame, gue^.ng themeaning of this propine, cauft'3 by night, fhoe three hor*fes backward, and polled away from court with two in hiscompa «y. and on the fifth dav (the way being deep inwinter,) arrived.at his own caille of Lochmabme, wherelie found nis brother Edward, with Robert Fleming, Jamesl.indfay, Robert Kilpatrick, and Thomas Charters, whotold him ho.v Wallace was betrayed by Sir John Monteith,and the Gumming faftion a few days'before. Immediatelythereafter thev intercepted a mefFenger with letters fromCum ning to king Edward, defiring that Bruce fhould bedifpatched in hafle, left being a nobleman much favouredby the commons) he ihculd raife greater {lira. The treach-. cry of John Camming, before only fufpetiled, was herebymade trunifeft. which fo incenfed the Lord Bruce, that rid-S I R W I L L I A M WALLACE,jng to Dii-nfries, and finJi'i,r Cjiti ningr at the r^afs of theGrey-Friers, after he had fltiwn him his letters, in impa¬tience, he {tabbed him with his daoj ver 5 and others whowere about him'doing the like, not only drfpatched him,but alfo hisconfin Sir Edward Camming, and others whoafiided him. This {laughter fell out on tire 9th of Febru¬ary, in the year 1306, as we now account.The Bruce, thus rid of one enemy, found a great num¬ber as it were wiling o it of his adies, even the whole p iif-fant name of Gumming, with their allies, the ear! of March,the lord of Lorn, the lord of Yberr.ethy, the lord of Brech¬in, the lord Soules, the moll part of the Murth. and allGalloway followed the Cum mi rigs : the earl of March, thelord William Soules commanded the Mvae, with Berwickand the border ; all which they yielded to king Edward,and maintained again!! Robert Bruce. At the fame timebis two brothers, Thomas and Alexander Bruce, withRonald Crawford younger, fecretly landing in Galloway,were taken by Duncan Macdougal a great man in Gallo¬way, and fent to King Edward, who cajifed them ail threeto be hanged. On the other fide, alfenibled to him, be,fidethefs above named, the young lord Ja nes Douglas,' ( whohearing of his father’s death, had returned from France,where he was at fchool, and ftaid a time with his kinlman,William Lamberton, bilhop of St. Andrews,) earl Mul-L com Lennox, earl John of Athol, (altho’ of the Cunliningblood, y<.t being father-in-lawfo Edward Bruce,) Sir Neilj Campbell, Sir Gilbert Hay, Sir Chriilopher Seaton, Sir. Thomas Ronald, Sir Hugh Flay, John Somervi'lc, DavidI! Barclay, Alexander and Simon Frazwr, Sir Robert Boyd,! Sir William Halyhurton, with fundrjr who had ilood withi Wallace before. With this company he pall into Scoon,1 and took upon him the crown of Scotland- in April. 1 ;09.I After this he gathered an army, minding to befiege St.Johnfloun. But finding his power too weak, be retired toMethven, where he was uncxpeAedly aiTaub. 'd and dif-i'comtited by Sir Aymer de Vallance, but with fmal! lofs ofmen, except fome who were taken, as Randal Barclay,JFrazer, Jnchmartine, Somerville, and Sir Hugh Hay, whowere conflrained to fwear homage to king Edward. The1 commods difeoursged with this hard fuccefs, fearing ths; Englifh, forfook the new king; who had a ftnall compa¬ny of gentlemen about him, with whom he travelled to-•ygf f 6 T H E H I S T 0 Tl Y 0 Ewards Argyll, nicaniar to lurk for a time with his Lro-ther'in law. Sir Neil Campbell. but he was encountered by *the wav, by John of Lorn, coufin to John Cumming andco’idrained to flee, albeit with fmall daughter of his ownfolk. After this fecond difeomliture, he fent his Queen,(being daughter to Gratney earl of Mar,) with his brotherSir Neil Bruce, and John earl of Athol, to the callle of Kil-diimmy, in Mar. The King of England fent his fon, princeEdward with a mighty hoft, to behege this caftle. The<^\ieen hearing this, fled to the frith of Tain in Rofs: butthe earl of Rofs took her, an ' her daughter and fent themcaptives into England. The caftle of Kildrimmy was trai-toroufly burnt by one of the ganrifon : all that were thereintaken and hanged, at the command of the Englifh king.Robert, feeing winter approaching, and finding no re¬treat in the main land, retired with his mod entire friends,to his old friend Angus, lord of the ides ; with whom heflayed a fhort time in Kintyre, and thereafter1 failed over Iinto the ifle of Raughline, where he lurked all the winter ; Jevery man fuppofing him to be dead. The next fpring helanded quietly in Carrick, and on a hidden intercepted bisowncaflloof furuberry. The, Lord Piercy flying home outof it to his own country. Sir James Douglas departingthence fecretly, came into Douglas dale, and by means of .Thomas Dickfon, an old fervant of his father’s,"he recov¬ered his own callle of Douglas, and caft it down once andagain ; thereafter he returned to king Robert to Cumnock,fhewing him that Aymer de Vallance, and }ohn of Lorn,with an army, were corning againfl him. The King with500 valiant men kept them hives in a ftrong place, waiting ;twhile Sir Aymer vvould inyade ; but took 110 heed to Johnof Lorn, who fetching a compafs* fet upon his back with .800 high! and men, and had well nigh inclofed them about, ,The king perceiving the danger, divided his men in three :and appointing where they fliouM meet at right; fled 1fundry ways, John of orn having a (loth-hound, purfti-cd ftill after the King, who putting away all that were inhis company, fave one man, flel into the next wood, andwith great difficulty efcapej the floth-hound. Sir Aymer,difappointed of tliis enterprize, fliortly tliercafter, with1500 c ho fen men, very near furprifed'Vhe King in Glen-tole-vyood : Putt tlie King with his men taking courage*Y- refolutely defended the place, which was very ilrong, andiS I R W I L L T A M W A L L A C E. 17 ;killing divers of the full who a (Faulted them, the re if (ledback. Therefore, with move courage, he went into thefields, reduced Kvle and Cunningham to his obedience, SirJames Douglas alfo, with 60 men lying in an ambufh at aflrait place in Cunningham, called the Netherford ; whereSir Philip Moubray was paffing, with 1000 men againftthe King, being then in Kyle, killed many of them andput the reft to flight. On May loth following, Sir Aymerwith 3000 men came againft the King, then lying :o Gal- .fton in Kyle : King Robert hearing of his coming, albeit heexceeded not 600 men, came forth againft him at a placeunder L'ou'don hill, which he fo fqrtified on every handwith dykes and fbufres, that the enemy could net inclofehim on both (ides ; and fo by the flout and refolute valourof fo few, Sir Aymer was put to flight, which he took fofore to heart that he retired into England, and gave overlu’s office of warden, or viceroy, John of Britain tail ofRich mond being fent into Scotland in his place.King Robert after this paft into the north, leaving Sirlames Doufdas on the borders, who, taking his own cattleDouglas by a ftratsgem, razed it to the ground, and ini few days chafed all the Englifh out of Douglas-dale Et-frick foreft, and Jedburgh foreft, and took Sir ThomasRandal the King’s Sifter’s fon, (who had followed theEnglifh ever iincc his captiv1 y,) and Sir Alexander Stew¬art dPBunkle. Sir Alexander and Simon Frazer, meetingking Robert in the north, (hewed him, how John Cum-ming earl of Buchan, David lord Brechin, Sir John Mou-I bray, and the reft of the Cummtpg faftion, were gather¬ing an army againft him. Mean while, by the affiftance ofhis friends in thefe quarters, on a hidden he furpriz’d thecaftle of Invernefs, the fame of which viftory caufed manyother ftrengths to yield : all which he overthrew and great-,’lv increafed the number of his. friends. In his return, tak¬ing ficknefs at Inverury, Cumming fet upon him. TheKing, after his friends had for a time defended him, re¬covering fomewhat, went out to the field, and fo hardly af-aulted his enemy at Old Meldnim, that albeit their r.um-tr was far greater, yet they took their flight. With thelike fuceefs, he fet upon the King, in Gltnafk in t\ngus,where, being (hamefully put to flight, he fled into Eng-and, with Sir John Moubray, and died there (bortly after.Lord David Brechin fortified his own cattle, but Davidf,7iR T H E H I S T O R Y O F •earl pf Athol, forced him to yield it .and ‘himfelf to theKing. Mean time, Philip Frazei took the caftle of For¬far : dncl the King, purfuing this victory, reduced all thenorth to his obedience ; and joining with the lord James4)ouglas, returning from the South with his two captives,he took St. Johnftoun by furprizal: from thence he paf-fed into Lorn, the Lord whereof had ambufhed two thou¬sand men, on the fide of a fteep hill, where the King be-LoveJ to enter through a narrow paiTage : but Sir James•Douglas, with Sir Alexander Frazer ; and Sir AndrewLicay, climbing the hill, came fuddenly on their backs,and put them to flight. John of Lorn fled into England•by fea : his father, Lord Alexander M'Dougal, yieldedhimftlf and the caftle of Dunilaffnage to the King., By thefe means, all on the north fide of Forth was re¬duced to obedience ; Sir Edward, his brother, in the meanitsae, who by long and hard fighting, had conquered Gal-ay, James Douglas, hv a ftratagem, furprifed the (Iroug   Ife of Roxburgh on the Faften’s-even, while all the gar-yifon (after the cultom of the time) were feafting and play¬ing the riot. The report whereof, fo whetted the valiattJEhomas Randal newly reftored to his uncle’s favour, and-ipside earl of Murray, that having befieged the caftle of E-v diijburgh for fome months, he fet himfelf by all means tov, gy*'parry the fame, which be obtained by a narrow paflage upthrough the rock, difcovered by him; by which he andETjFundry ftout gentlemen fecretiy palled up, and fcaling the.wall, after long and dangerous fighting,* made themfelvesr /iVyipatlers of the place. The garrifons of Ruthcrglen, La-« ' ^yhetk, Dumfries, Air, Dundee, and Bute, hearing this,, jiyielded up thefe cattles, which were all razed. The ifle ofMan, alfo returned to the obedience cf the crown of Scotjsty.d. Sir Edward Bruce, having befieged Stirling caitlemonths, agreed with the cnptawi, Sir Philip MonShy, that if the king of England did not refeue him with'ikv i 2 months thereafter, the caftle (liould be yielded tnlking Robert. Albeit this feemed a fa(h provocation of fcjrm'rihty a King as Edward Longfhanks ; (hut far degener-jjate from his valour,) lur ing not f tily K.ngland and Ii;elandjjtand many Englifned Sects, with the duchy of GuienneBourdtaux, and other parts of France fubjeft to him, bit*alfo the low countries llritHy confederate with him : ye'kyig Robert prepared himfelf to encounter him in th*S I R W I L L I A M WALLACE. 19I fields, and gathered 35.000 men, few, but valiant. Thei king of England had above icog oo foot, and 10,O' ohorfei'with which multitude, intending to deftroy the itj-!i habitants of Scotland, and to divide the land to his follow-[ prs, he came to Bannockburn, (two miles from Stirling,)where on June 21ft, 1314, he was encountered by the; Scots, and after long and hard fighting, his great armyI put to the rout; himfelf, with a fmall company, fieeijig in-rto Dusnbar, was fent by the.Earl of March into Englandi in a fiihtr-boat, leaving 200 noblemen and gentlemen kil*1 led by the Scots, and as many taken : the number of thei commons fiain and taken was incredible. Of Scots were•fain two gentlemen of note, Si; William Wepont, andl Sir Walter Rofs, with 4000 common foldiers.1 Afiei this vidtory, Stsilirtg being yielded, and Dumbar-! ton gotten by compofition, the Earl of March, the lordi Souics, crul Afcerntthy, and others of the Cummings’al-j lies, were reconciled to the king, who pail into the Lies,| and brought them to obedience, taking John of LoraI captive, who died in prifon in Lochleven. Thus Scotland; was freed of the bondage of England, except Berwick,Which was recovered four years thereafter, 1318, and theScots making divers inctirfions into England, under the1 leading of Earl Thomas Randal, and James lord Douglas,• requited the harms received from them before, and en¬riched themfclves with their fpoil.As for the Authority of thefe two hifiories^ altho’ they;| polTibiy err in fomecircumllances of time, pla< e, and num-:| her, or names of men, yet generally they wiite the truthc of the ftory of thofe times, both at greater length, andjf upon more certain information, than thofe who have writ-;i; ten our Chronicles. So committing them to thy diligentliperufal, (gentle and courteous reader, ) l'wi(h thee profit1 thereby, and all happinefs from God. Farewel.fhort Account of the Battle of Bannockburn, ‘which was fought, June 24th,DWARD II kept up the fame claim in Scotlandwhich his father had begun: and, after feveral nnfr.c-fsful attempts to eflablifii it, he refolved to make a greateffort, and at ones reduce that turbulent nation, which hadput fo many fignal affronts upon his father and himftlf.m20 AN ACCOUNT OF THEIn the fpting, 1314, he affembled the mod numerousarmy that had ever croffed the borders, eompofed of dif¬ferent nations, and amounting to above 100,000 effedtivemen, befides, a huge multitude of attendants, who camealong, in hopes of {haring in the plunder of a conqueredenemy. A t the head of thefe he marched northward withan uncommon parade, and in full confidence of viftory.Robert Bruce, the fon of that Robert Bruce who held aconference with Wallace upon the banks of the Carron,and grandfon of him who had been competitor with Bn-lio!, had, in 1306, been crowned king of Scotland, andbeing informed of Edward’s formidable preparations, hefaded an army of 30,600 of his fubjedts to oppofe him.Thts armament bore but a fmall proportion to that of Ed¬ward’s ; but it was compofed of^bldiers, who were hard¬ened by long practice of war, and who now carried uponthe point of the {word, liberty and honour, and everything that was dear to them. With thefe Robert took uphis ilation in the neighbourhood of Stirling, and waitedfor Edward’s arrival. The two armies came in fight cfeach other, in the month cf June, and foon after, a bloodybattle was fought, in which the Scots obtained a victory,the meft celebrated of any in the annals of that kingdom,The procedure of that memorable event, was as follows.The Englilh, marched from Edinburgh to Falkirk inone day, and upon the morrow, fetting out from thencetowards Stirling, encamped to the northward of the for-wood. About upper Bannockburn, and backward uponthe muir of Plean, in the neighbourhood of the ancientRoman caufew'ay, pieces of broken pots, and other veffelahave been found; and upon rocks near the furface, marksof fire have been difeovered, where it is fuppofed the lol-diers had made ready their provifions. Barbour, the au¬thor of king Robert Bruce’s life, fpeaks as if their camphad It retched fo far northward, as to occupy a part of theCarfe ground ; and fo va(t a multitude mull doubtlefs havecovered a large tract of country.The Scottifh army was polled about a mile to the north-w-.ru, upon feveral eminences, fouth from the ■preient vil¬la.e of St..Nimans. Upon the fummit of one of thek e-niineuces, now called Brock’s Bare, is a ftone funK miottin earth, with a round hole in it. near three inchesdiameter, and much the fame in depth iu which, accord-BATTLE OF B ANNOCKBURN. jvIng to tradition, King Robert’s ilandard was fixed, theroyal tent having been erefted near it. This done is wellknown in that neighbourhood by the name of the Bore-stane. The final! rivtr of Baniio,ckhuin, remarkable forits ileep and rugged banks, ran in a narrow valley betweenthe two camps-The cattle of Stirling was ftill in the hands of the Eng-lifii, Edward Bruce, the King’s brother, had in the fpringof this year, laid fiege to it, but found himfelf obliged toabandon the enterprile ; only by a treaty between thatPrince and Moubray, the governor, it was agreed, thatif the'garrifon received no relief from England before ayear expired, they (lionld furrender to the Scots. TheI day preceding the battle, a flrong body of cavalry, to thenumber of 800, was detached from the Engfilh camp,! under the conduct of lord Clifford, to the relief of that| garrifon. Thefe, having marched through fome hollowI grounds upon the edge of the Carfe, had paffed the Scotsarmy before they were obferved. The King himfelf wasj the firfl that perceived them, and defiring Thomas Ran-S dolph, earl of Murray, to look towards the place wherethey were, told him, that a rofe had fallen from hischap-I let. Randolph, confidering this as a reproach, becaufe he, had the charge of that part, through which the Engliflij had marched, immediately fet out after them witlfa par-) ty of 500 horte, and coming up with them, in the plainj where the fmall village of New-houfe now flands, a fharpi aftion enfued, in fight of both armies, and of the garrifonof Stirling. It was fought with valour on both fidcs: andI it was fome time doubtful where vidfory would turn. Kingj; Robert, attended by fome of his officers, beheld the en¬counter from a riling ground, iuppofed to be the round1 hill immediately upon the weft of St. Ninians, now calledj Cock fltot-hill, Sir James Douglas, perceiving the diftrefsi of Randolph, who was gteatly inferior to the enemy in1 numbers, afked leave to go to his fuppovt. 'Phis KingRobert at firft refufed, but afterwards confenting, Doug¬las put his foldiers in motion ; obferving, however, as kewas on the way,_ that the vidlory was upon the point ofbeing won without his affiftance, ht flopped fhort, thathisfriend might have the unrivalled glory of it. The Eng¬lish were entirely defeated, and many of them (lain ; mclrA~ A N AG COUNT OF THEuniverfal joy. To perpetuate the memory of this victory,two itones were reared up in the field, and are fiil! to be ■feen there. They Hand in a fpot which has lately beenincloi'eil for a garden at the north end of the village of, Newhoufe, and about a quarter of a mile, from the Bor-dugh-port of Stirling.This vidtory gave new fpirits to the whole army, andmade them fo eager for the general engagement, that thenight, tho’ among the fhorteft of the year, feemed longto them. Edward too, exafperated at tire defeat of hisdetachment, was determined to bring on the battle on themorrow. At length appeared the dawn of that importantday, which was to decide, whether Scotland was hence¬forth to be an independent kingdom, or fubjeft to a for¬eign yoke. Early all was in motion in both armies : reli¬gious feutiments were mingled with the military ardour ofthe Scots; a lolemn mafs, in the manner of thefe times,was fiid by the Aboot of Inchaft’ery, a monafrary inStrathearn, who alfo adminiitrcd the facrament to theKing and the great officers about him, while inferior prieftsdid the fame to the reft of the army. After this theyformed in order of battle, in a track of ground calledNether Touebadam, which lies along the declivity of agently rifing hill. This fituation had been previoufly cho-fen beeaufe of its advantages. Upon the right they had a *'range of ft cep rocks, now called Murray’s Craig, and intheir front, were ifeep banks of the rivulet of Bannock¬burn. Not far behind them was a wood; fome veftiges ofwhich {bill remain. Upon the left was a morafs, now call¬ed Milton-bog', from its vicinity to a fmall village of thaCaname :»much of this bog is Hill undrained, and a part. of.it is at prefent a mill darju As it was then the middle <&fummer, it was almoft quite dry. But King Robert hadreeourfe to a firatagem, in order to prevent any attackfrom that quarter. ,tfe had ordered many ditches and pitsto be digged in the morafs, and flakes, fharpentd at btvdaends, to be driven into them, and the whole to be cover¬ed over again with green turf, fo that the ground had ftilltht appearance of being firm. He alfo caufed crow-fcet,or harp pointed irons to be fcattered throughout the nio-rafs; fome of them have been found there in the memoryof jeople ftili living; the fame manoeuvres were like wifecamd on for a little way along the front of the left wing;re fiat than they ate any where elfe,- it wasce where the enemy could pafs the river in any fort oi'!|-der. By means of thefe artificial improvements, join-:|n to the natural ftrenyth of the ground, the Scotch ar-»y fiood as within an entrenchment, and the invifible pitafind ditches anfwered the concealed batterirs of more mo-ern times.Amongft the other occurences of this memorable day,iftorians mention an accident of a fingular nature. AsIie.two armies were about to engage. The Abbot of Inch-ffery polling himfelf before the Scots, with a crucifix in!is hand, they all fell down upon their knees in the aftf devotion. The enemy obferving them in fo uncom-\on a pollure, concluded that they were* frighted into’u&miflion, and that, by kneeling, when they, fiiould beready to fight, they meant to furrender at difc*et?on, and(inly to beg their live!; but they were foon undeceived,when they faw them rife again, and Hand to their armsHvith Heady countenances.The Eirglilh began t'ae'aftiou, by a brilk charge upon(the left wing of the Scots commanded by Randolph, nearIt he fpot, where the bridge is now thrown over the river,the fmall village of Charter’s hall. Hereabout was the|;only place where the river could be crofied in any order.A large body of cavalry advanced to attack him in front,bwhile another fetched a compafs to fall upon his flank andj rear, but before they fttuld come to clofe engagement,I they fell into the fnare that had been laid for them. Ma¬ny of their horfes were foon difabled, by the lharp ironsrulhing into their feet, others tumbled into the conceal-..1 pits, and could not difentangle themfelves. Pieces of♦ titir harnefling, with bits of broken fpears, and other ar-...our, Hill continue to be dug up in the bog.In the beginning of the engagement, an incident hap¬pened, which; though in itfelf o£ fmall moment, was ren¬dered importanMby its*confequences. King Robert wasr glinted on hcrftback, carrying a battle-ax in his hand,and upon his helmet, he wore a high turban in the formof a crown, by way of dittinftion. This, together withhis aftivity, rendered hi-n very confpicuous as tie rode be¬fore the lines An Englilh Knight, named Bohuh^ whowas ranked among the bravelt ia king Edward’s army.t