FIVE FAVOURITE'SONGS*The Triumph of Reform.While o’er the rising Moon.The Burial of Sir John Moore.The Pigeon.Dinna ask me gin I lo’e ye.NE \VTON=STE WAR T:Printed for the Booksellers, fyJ. M'NAIRN.j :lK J07Ai 3V:7, v, l", l'[ >Q} 'THE TRIUMPH OF REFORM,Now, brother Reformers, come fortli and assemble,The victory is won, let us meet and rejoice ;The spirit of Union has made our foes tremble,And called back the men of the people’s own .choice.Our claims, long rejected, resentment engendered—Reformers stood forward in fearless array.;The contest was zealous—base faction surrender’d.And hope bids us look for a prosperous day,Duka Wellington, Lyndhurst, may rage, wail, andgrumble,Earl Vane,* and Carnarvon, may bray like an ass ;The people have taught them a lesson to humbleThe hearts of proud tyrants, with faces of brass.Here’s health to Earl Grey, Althorp, Richmond andRussel,Here’s Landsdovvne, and Durham, and Holland antiBrougham,* The Mar^uy/of Londonderry rote? in Parliament aaEarl Vane.V'■ 3:Whenever they’re called on with factions to jus tie,Defeat and confusion will sure be their doom.t .!: . j yjTSfu r. .And here’s to the people’ who, firm and united.Have vanquish’d their foes without bloodshed orstile ; . , iAnd here’s to King William, whose worth has beenslighted, jMay he never again be misled in his life; \Now he knows that he rules o’er a nation of freemenWho scorn the cognomen of coward or slave ;Kong life and renown to the true British seaman,Who trust for support to the hearts of the brave,,Rcc>ii: silt -j•••' .< slid //S.'J mdl .• :WHILE O’ER THE RISING MOON.While o’er the rising moon.Clouds gently hover ;Come, lady, through the gloonijCome to thy lover.Sweet on the evening breeze,Music is sounding—*Lint;! list! amid the trees,Gay feet are bounding.Come where the radiance blight,CteftrCSl is glancing ;Come where the radiance luright.Clearest is glancing.Gome, come, come;Come, ere the blushing east,Daylight discover;Come, time is fleeting fast.Come to thy lover.Gome, corner come.While o’er the rising moonyClouds gently hover;.Come, lady, through the gloom;COrfte to thy lover,Come, come, come,Come to thy loverrOh ! come, cotne, come.d&oon!; ,•5THE BURIAL OF SIR JOHN MOORE.Not a drum was heard, not a funeral note,As his corse to the ramparts we hurried ;Not a, soldief discharged his farewell shot,O’er the grave where our hero was buried.We buried him darkly, at dead of night,The sods' with our bayonets tufrting;By the struggling moon-beams misty light,And the lantern dimly burning.No us^ess cdffin inclosed his breast,Nor in slieCt nor in shroud we wound hint rrBut he lay like a wanior taking his rest—With his martial cloak around him.Few and short were the prayers we said,And we spoke not a word of sorrow ;But we stedfastly gaaed on the face of the dead,And we bitterly thought of the morrow.We thought, as we hollowed his narrow bedyAnd smoothed down his lonely pillow jHow tlie foe and the stranger would tread o’erhead,And we far away on the billow.Lightly they’ll talk of the spirit that’s gone,And o’er his cold ashes upbraid him ;But little he’ll reck if they let him sleep on,In the grave where a Briton has laid him.But half of our heavy task was done,When the clock told the hour for retiring ;And we heard the distant and random gun.That the foe was suddenly tiring,Slowly and sadly we laid him down.From the field of his fame fresh and gory ;We carved not a line, and we raised not a stoneBut we left him alone with his glory.: 1-> Liov/ r. : ba'•m—j*fOT!0(a Bib A S-Doodi vlunid aw bnATHE PIGEON.7Come Luther ray dove—TU write to ray lore,And send him a letter by thee..• . • ‘vjt i ;'*o • \ c 2 ■' i> ■ tlO‘To find him swift fly—the letter I’li tie,Secure to thy leg with a string ;-<A ! not to my leg, fair lady, I beg,But fasten it under ray wing.'Her dove she did deck •.—she drew o’er his neckA bell, and a collar so gay ;She tied to his wing the scroll with a string.Then kissed him, and sent him away.It blew and it rained ;—the pigeon disdained.To seek shelter : undaunted he flew ;Till wet was his wing, and painful the string,So heavy the letter grew.■ . mi: /). lHe flew all around, till Colin lie found.Then perched op his hand with the prize ;Whose heart, while he reads, with tenderness bleedsFor the pigeon that flutters and dies,8r'OH ! MNNA ASK ME GIN I LOT. YE•will vi! iO; }I a u-niby ' 'Oh! dinna ask me gin I lo’e ye,‘Deed I darena tell ;Dinna ask me gin I lo’e ye,Ask it o’ youreel.Oh ! dinna look sae aft at me,For oh ! ye weel may trow ;That when ye look sae sair at me,I darena look at you.An’ when ye gang to yon braw town,And bonnier lasses see;O’ Jamie ! dinna look at theni)For fear ye mind na me;For 1 could never bide the lass,That ye lo’ed mair than me ;And O I’m sure my heart would breaksGin ye’d.prove fa Ise to me.V.