HELIOGABULOS’SMAGIC TABLETSA NEVERFAILINQJ KEY TO THE FUTURE FOR-1 TUNES OF THE ENQUIRERS.1ALSO“J THE SILENT LANGUAGE.IT® E>3§©®t!!msii WaTIKl®^?iPE^KaiMSaAND VAKIODS O'lHEBSECRETS WORTH KNOWINGGLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.OF SCOTUKPIu ju/.oow.in•viijtiATJiavaiK a-j,- , ; . • ■ ; a,41 OT Y;.h:i;■ h Jyza : ht ao ft:./.in.U, :/hau jo BuotaAv aa?.,3 : ■ r...- *^ -f!.'IT 'T!f 1 >HELIOGrABULUS’SMAGIC TABLETS.RULE.The person whose fortune is to betold, is to place his or her little fin¬ger on any letter in the first Tabletthey may choose, but it must bedone by chance (it is better to do itwith the eyes shut)—then refer to thesecond tablet, to the letter, underwhich is a particular magical figure,and has reference to the oracle inthe following pages, and which willdetermine the fortune of the inquirer.4TABLET.—No. I.A C DZ F X L'N A P N 0 CD L Q Y R S TE H G L K V WT S Y A N M C DP O R B \V X A P NC H B I X F G SBULL W V UO F T S V D LM X Z A B KW B B L MO N Q SZ YTABLET.—No. II.ABC2o lo 5D E F G H IIt 16 6 13 7 18K L M N O P Q R8 17 1 9 10 22 -3 12S T V U W23 19 2 24 4X Y Z20- 2.1 U5ORACLES TO THE MAGICTABLETS.FOEtTUNE.1.—If this number is fixed uponby a man, it assures him, if single,a homely wife, but rich ; if married,an access of riches, numerous chil¬dren, and an old age. To a lady,the faithfulness of her lover, and aspeedy marriage.3.—Very good fortune, suddenprosperity, great respect from highpersonages, and a letter bringingimportant news.7.—This number, to a woman, iswonderful in showing, if single, ahandsome, rich, and constant hus¬band; and if married, a faithfulpartner, and who must be of goodfamily, as she must know she hasmarried above her condition; to aman the same.68. —This is a general good sign,and your present expectations willhe fulfilled, and yon have some onthe anvil.9. —If a married man or womandraws this, if under fifty, let themnot despair of a young family ; tothe single very sudden marriage.10. —A friend has crossed the sea,and will bring home some riches, bywhich the parties will be much be¬nefited.12.—An uncommon number be¬longing to scriptural signs, and showsthe party will have success in alltheir undertakings.15. —No doubt but the chooser isvery poor, and thought insignificant,but let friends assist him or her, asthey are much favoured.16. —A very sudden journey, witha pleasant fellow-traveller, and theresult of the journey will be general¬ly beneficial to your family.718.—A sudden acquaintance withthe opposite sex, but which will beopposed ; notwithstanding the partyshould persevere, it wall be to his orher advantage.21. —letter of importance willarrive, announcing the death of arelation for whom you have no verygreat respect, but who has left youa legacy.22. —Be very prudent in your con¬duct, as this number is very precari¬ous, and much depends upon yourself;it is generally good.23. —A very accomplished youngwoman will be the wife of the manwho chooses this figure.24. —Let the chooser of thisnumber persevere ; all his or herschemes are good, and must succeed.8IS AD FORTUXE.2.—Shows the loss of a friend, badsuccess at law, loss of money, un¬faithfulness of lovers, and a bad part¬ner.4. —A letter announcing the lossof money.5. —The man who draws thisnumber, let him examine his moles,and he will find, I know, more abouthim than he imagines.6. —Very bad success ; you mayexpect, generally, n >t to succeed inany of your undertakings.10. —If a married man or womanchoose this number, it foretells toeither party, the sudden death of theirpartner : to the unmarried, the deathof their lover.11. —I should rather suspect thefidelity of your husband or wife, ifmarried ; if single, you are shocking¬ly deceived.y13. —You want to borrow mouey,and you hope you shall have it, butyou will de deceived.14. —The old man you have de¬pended upon is going to be married,and will have a child.17.—You have mixed with thiscompany, and pretend to despise ourtablets, but rely much upon them,and you may depend on it you willbe brought to disgrace.19. —Look well to those who oweyou money, if ever so little 5' a letterof abuse may be expected.20. —A drunken partner, bad suc¬cess in trade, but the party will neverbe very poor, though always unhappy.25.—The man or woman whochooses this unlucky number, letthem look well to their conduct;justice, though slow, is sure to over¬take the wicked.10THESILENT LANGUAGE.How to Conyerse ami Discourse with any Per-son, without speaking a word.This art is performed by the twenty-four letters of the alphabet on yourhands and fingers, which you mustlearn, and then spell the words youintend your lover or friend shallknow. The letters are very easilylearned, and easy to remember. Youmust understand that most of theletters are upon the left, made withthe finger of the right and left hand ;with the fore-finger of the right handyou point to every letter, but some¬times that and the two next fingersmake several letters, as you willhereafter find. The vowels are veryeasy to remember, they being thetops or ends of your five fingers onthe left hand, and the Y is formed11-)in the palm of the hand, as follows,viz.—The end of the thumb is . . AThe end of the fore-finger . . EThe end of the middle finger . 1The end of the ring-finger . . 0The end of the little finger . UThe table, or palm of the hand . YOne finger upon the thumb . BTwo fingers upon the left thumb . CThree fingers upon the left thumb . DYour two fingers laid together . FThumb your fists together . . CJStroke the palm of both your handstogether ..... HYour tore-finger upon the left wrist KOne finger upon the back of the lefthand LThree fingers laid upon the same . MTwo fingers laid open the same . NClinch your left hand or fist . . PClinch your right hand , . QLink the little fingers together . RThe back of your hands together SThe end of the fore-finger to the mid¬dle joint of the other fore-finger . TTwo fingers on the little finger of theleft hand .... YVTwo fingers across . . .XGive two snaps with your fingers YPractice tins lesson but a feYV timesover, and you will soon fee perfect12Several motions represent the like¬ness of the letter, as one finger onthe hack of the hand is L, two lingersare like N, three fingers are like M,the fore-finger to the middle joint ofthe other fore-finger is like T, twofingers across are I ke X; likewise B,C, I), are very easily remembered, asone finger upon the left thumb is B,two are C, three D, but you mustalways remember to give a snapwith the fingers between every word,so that your friend may distinguishone word from another. Supposeyou are in company, and have reasonto think there are some others thatunderstand you, contrary to yourwishes and desires : it will then benecessary to change the vowels tosome other place in the hand, andthen none but the friend that knowsit, can understand you. Now, forexample’s sake, suppose a personwishes to address the lady he loves,being in a large company, by saying,“ Madam I am your humble servant,”it is done thus—13Lay three fingers on the hack of the hand MPut your finger to the end of the leftthumb . . .... AThree fingers upon the left thumb , DYour fingers again to the thumb . . AThree fingers again to the back of the hand MAnd then give a snap with your fingersto show that the word is spelt.Then point to the end of the middle finger IThen snap your fingersThen point to the end of your thumb . AThree fingers on the back of the hand . MThen snap your fingers.Then point to the palm of the left hand YThen point to the end of the ring finger , OThen point to the end of your little finger TJThen link the little fingers together . RThen snap your fingersThen stroke the palms of the hands to¬gether ...... HThen point to the end of the little finger UThen three fingers on the back of the hand MThen one finger upon the thumb . RThen one finger on the back of the hand LThen point to the end of the fore-finger EThen snap your fingers.Then put the hack of the hands together SThen point to the end of the fore finger . EThen link the little fingers . . RThen point to the end of the little finger VThen to the end of the thumb . . \Then two fingers on the back of the hand NThen point the fore finger to the middlejoint of the other forefinger . TThen snap your fingers14And thus you may discourse on any subjectwhatsoever; if you practice it often, you willsoon learn to do it very quick, even fasterthan you can write.How to know what o'Clock it is by the Hands andFingers.Take a small stick the length of the secondfinger: then hold this said stick very tightbetween the thumb and the right fore-finger ;then stretch forth the hand, turn your backand the palm of your hand towards the sun,so that the shadow of the muscle, which isunder the thumb, touch the line of life, whichis the middle of the other two great lineswhich are seen in the palm of the hand; thisdone, the end of the shadow will show youwhat o’clock it is ; for at the end of the middlefinger it is seven in the morning, or five in(he evening; at the end of the ring-finger itis eight in the morning, or four in the after¬noon : the end of the little finger or firstjoint, it is nine in the morning, or three in theafternoon ; ten and two at the second joint:eleven and one at the joint; and midday in•)15the line following, which comes from the endef the index.Notwithstanding my limits now grow short,I must treat you with two other valuable se¬crets belonging to this most excellent science.TSAEIOULMNR19 20 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9bcvfghkqj n10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 21P W X Y Z22 23 24 25 26Which is very easy to understand ; for ex¬ample, suppose 1 wish to write the followingwords—Fear God—it is done thus,—13,219 14,4,21-^-making a dash thus—between everyword, in order to distinguish one word fromanother with morn ease.The other present I am about to give you,is called16SECRET WRITING.This is putting one letter in the place of an¬other, and thus, by changing your letters, itwill look like another different kind of lan¬guage. See the following table—A E I 0 I U Y T S | N RB C D F | G H K L | M PNow suppose, by way of example, I wish towrite the following words—Hononrthe King.Here I must change the Letters in manner fol¬lowing, viz.yfmfgp kyc tdmu ;and thus you may write on any subject eitherto your friend or lover, and the same may al¬ways remain a secret unto every unlearned per¬son. without any danger of being exposed atany time whatsoever.17CHARMS AND CEREMONIES.To see a future Husband.On Midsummer eve, just after sun-set, three,five, or seven young women are to go into agarden, in which there is no other person andeach to gather a sprig of red sage, and then,going into a room by themselves, set a stoolin the middle of the room, and on it a cleanbason full of rose water, in which the sprigsof sage are to be put, and tying a line acrossthe room, on one side of the stool, each womanis to hang on it a clean shift, turned the wrongside outwards ; then all are to sit down in arow, on the opposite side of the stool, as fardistant as the room will admit, not speaking asingle word the whole time, whatever theysee, and in a few minutes after twelve, eachone’s future husband will take her sprig outof the rose-water, and sprinkle her shiftwith it. •On St. Agnes’ night, the 21st January, takea row of pins, and pull out every one, oneafter another, saying a pater-nostcr on stick-ISnig- a pin in your sleev<;, and you will dreamof him you will marry.A slice of the bride cake thrice drawnthrough the wedding-ring, and laid under thehead of an unmarried woman, will make herdream of her future husband. The same ispractised in the north with a piece of thegroaning cheese.Another way to see a future spouse in adream ; the party inquiring must lie in a differ¬ent county from that to which she commonlyresides, and on going to bed, must knit theleft garter about the right-legged stocking,letting the otlier garter and stocking alone;and as you rehearse the following verse, atevery comma knit a knot:-—This knot I knit, to know the thing I know not yet,That I may see the man that shall my husband be,How he does, and what he wears,And ivhat he does all days and years.Accordingly, in a dream he will appear,with the insignia of his trade or profession.Another performed by charming the moon,thus:—at the first sppearance of the new moonimmediately after the new year’s day, go outin the evening, and stand over the spears ofthe gate or stile, and, looking on the moon,repeat the following line® :—All hail to thee moon ! all hail to thee !I pr'ythee, good moon, reveal to me,This night, who my husband must be !The party will then dream of her future hus¬band.19To know whut Fortune your future Husband will have.Tako a walnut, a hazel-nut, ami nutmeg- >grate them together, ami mix them with but¬ler ami sugar, and make them up into smallpills, of which exactly nine must he taken ongoing to bed ; and according to her dreams,so will be the state of the person she willmarry. If a gentleman, of riches ; ifaclergy-man, of white linen ; if a lawyer, of darkness ;if a tradesman, of odd noises and tumults; ifa soilder or sailor, of thunder and lightning ;if a servant, of rain.To find out the two first letters of a future Wifes orHusband's Name.Take a small bihle and the key of your frontstreet-door, and having opened to Solomon’sSongs, chap. viii. ver. 6 and 7, place the wardsof the key on tho»e two verses, and let thefeow of the key be about an inch out of the topof the bihle; then shut the hook, and tie itround with your garter, so as the key will notmove, and the person who wishes to knowhis or her future husband or wife’s signature,must suspend the bihle, by putting the middlefinger of the right hand under the bow of thekey, and the other person in like manner onthe other side of the bow of the key, whomust repeat the following verses, after theother person’s saying the aphabet, one letterto each time repeating them. It must be ob¬served, that you mention to tl t person who20repents the verses, before you begin, whichyou intend to try first, whether surname orChristian name; and take care to hold thebible steady, and when you arrive at the ap¬pointed letter, the book will turn round underyour finger and that you will find to be thefirst letter of your intended’s name.Solomon’s Songs, chap. vm. ver. 6 and 7.“ Set me as a seal upon thine heart, as a sealupon thine arm : for love is strong as death,jealousy is cruel as the grave, the coals thereofare coals of fire, which hath a most vehementflame.“ Many waters cannot quench love, neithercan the floods drown it; if a man would giveall the substance of his house for love, it wouldbe utterly contemned.”To know hoio soon a Person will be married.Get a green pea cod, in which are exactlynine peas; hang it over the door, and thenta"ke notice of the first person who comes in,who is not of the family, and if it proves abachelor, you will certainly be married with¬in th.it year.On any Friday throughout the year—Takerosemary flowers, bay leaves, thyme, andsweet marjoram, of each a handful, dry these,;uid make them into a fine powder; then takea teaspoonful of each sort, mix the powderstogether; then take twice the quantity ofbarley flower, and make the whole into a cakew ith the milk of a red cow. This cake is not21tobe baked but wrapped in clean writing paperand laid under your head any Friday night.If the person dreams of music, she will wedthose she desires, and that shortly ; if of fire,she will be crossed in love; if of a church, shewill die single. If anything is written, or theleast spot of ink on the paper it will not do.To hixow if any one shall enjoy thier love or not.Take the number of the First letter of yourname, the number of the planet, and the dayof the week ; put all these together, and di¬vide them by thirty ; if it be above it willcome to your mind, and if below, to the con¬trary ; and mind that number which ext edsnot thirty.To hnoio if a Child new-horn shall live or not.Write the proper names of the father andthe mother, and of the day the child was born,and put to each letter it» number, as you didbefore, and unto the total sum, being collect¬ed together, put twenty-five, and then dividethe whole by seven; and then if it be eventhe child shall die; but if uneven the childshall live.To know if a Woman with Child shall have a Boyor Girl.Write the proper names of the father anddie mother, and of the month she conceivedwith child, and likewise adding all the num-22here of those letters together, divide them byseven ; and then, if the remainder be even, itwill be a girl, if uneven it will be a boy.The nine Keys.Get nine small keys, they must all be yourown by begging or buying (borrowing willnot do, nor must you tell what you want themfor)-, plait a three plaited band of your ownhair, and tie them together, fastening theends with nine knots; fasten them with oneof your garters to your left wrist on going tobed, and bind the other garter round yourbead ; then say—St. Peter take it not amiss,To try your favour I’ve done this;You are the ruler of the keys,Favour me then, if you please ;Let me then your influence prove,And see my dear and wedded love.This must be done on the eve of St. Peter’sand is an old charm used by the maidens ofRome in ancient times, who put great faith init.The mysterious Watch.Request any person to lend you his watch,and ask him if it will go when laid on the ta¬ble. He will, no doubt, answer in the affirma¬tive ; in which case, place it over the end ofthe concealed magnet, and it will presentlystop. Then mark the precise spot where youplaced the watch, and moving the point of the323magnet, gir'e the watch to another personand desire him to make the experiment; inwhich he not succeeding, give it to a third (atthe same time replacing the magnet), and hewill immediately perform it to the great cha¬grin of the second party.This experiment cannot be effected, unlessyou take the precaution to use a very stronglyimpregnated magnetic bar, and that the balancewheel of the watch be of steel, which may beascertained by previously opening it, and look¬ing at the works.The witches’ chain.Let three young women join in making along chain, about a yard will do, of Christmasjuniper, and misletoe berries, and at the end ofevery link put an oak acorn. Exactly beforemidnight let them assemble in a room by them¬selves, where no one can disturb them ; leavea window open, and take the key out of the key¬hole and hang it over the chimney-piece ; havea good fire, and place in the midst of it a longthinnish log of wood, well sprinkled with oil,salt, and fresh mould, then wrap the chainround it, each maiden having an equal sharein the business; then sit down, and on yourleft knee let each fair one have a prayer-bookopened at the matrimonial service, just as thelast acorn is burnt, the future husband willcross the room; each one will see her ownproper spouse, but he will be invisible to therest of the wakeful virgins. Those that arenot to wed will see a ooffin, or some misshapen21form, cross the room; go to bed instantly, andyou will all have remarkable dreams. Thismust be done either on a Wednesday or Fri¬day night, but no other.Love-letters.On receiving a love-letter that has any par¬ticular declaration in it, lay it wide open ; thenfold it in nine folds, pin it next to your heart,and thus wear it till bed-time ; then place it inyour left hand glove, and lay it under yourhead. If you dream of gold, diamonds, orany other costly gem, your lover is true, andmeans whgt he says ; if of white linen, you willlose him by death ; and if of flowers, he willprove false. If you dream of his saluting you,he is at present false, and means not whathe professes, but only to draw you into asnare.I