BR££MX.K. j—Piint«d by Scott & JitisjyjM*'t- - ^ ^mTHEGALLANT EXPLOITSLORD DUNDEE ^CONTAIN IN ft! Description of tbs Unit is of KiUibanf, andan Account of Use Heroic Adventures ft beOfficers vj'so survived' that Baltic, in-tcrrpsrsed with Remarks on theMannersy Custom:, &c. of the'Ancient \ hi* nders.THEEXPLOITS OF LORD DUNDEE.THE fury of civil war was not canfmed to Irelandas soon as the news of James’s arrival in thanountry was brought into Scotland, the impetuouLord Dundee hastened to Inverness, upon receivinintelligence that a qwurel about a debt had arisen be■tween the town’s-people, and some of the clans eLochaber,and that these clans were assembled in armSn the neighbonrhood of the town. He conferred t^Irst with the chiefs on each side, separately, in pr>ate: and then having convened all in public, b'hided them with reproaches, “ That they, who wet ivi *11 equally friends to King James, were preparinj*« at » time when he most needed their friendship, t* draw those daggers against each other which ouglto be plunged only into the breasts of his enemiesTie then paid the debt in dispute with his own iwtiey, and prevailed upon most of those, who had slately stood under opposite banners, to enlist unde .his own. He insinuated to the highland chieftain•n the borders of the Earl of Argylc’s country, upcisome of whose estates the Earl Lad old claims in lav .,and others »f whom had got grants of part of his ctate from the crown when he was attainted, “ thaew governments produced new favours and ne“laws: weak would be their interest at court, at.“ in courts of justice, against a competitor who hr“ done so much to place the crown upon the head' ,,“ the new king.” Lord Athole, Lord Taibet, aijLord Breadalbane, men of great power in the norti .were prevailed upon to give him no disturbance *, tJJwo first, because they thought themselves neglect*wExpUits of Lord Dandte. 11•Fo\% what wc call theft and rapine, they termed rightand justice. But, from the practice of these reprisals,they acquired the habits of being enterprising, artful,and bold. ^An injury done to one of a clan, was held to be ai<injury done to all, on account of the common rela¬tion of blood. Hence the highlanders were in thehabitual practice of war : and hence their attachmentto their chieftain, and to each other, was founded up¬on the two most active principles of human nature,lore of their friends, and resentment against theicenemies.But the frequency of war tempered its ferocity.They bound up the wounds of their prisoners, whilethey neglected their own ; and in the person of a^enemy, respected and pitied the stranger.They went always completely armed : A fashion,which by accustoming them to the instruments o£death, removed the fear of death itself; and which,from the danger of provocation, made the commonpeople as polite, and as guarded in their behaviour, asthe gentry of other countries.From these combined circumstances, the higherranks and the lower ranks of the highlanders alikevjoined that refinement of sentiment, which, in all o-,ther nations, is peculiar to the former, to that strength,and hardiness oi body, which, in other countries,possessed only by the latter.To be modest as well as brave ; to be contentedwith the few things which nature requires; to actand-to suffer without complaining; to be as much a-shamed of doing any thing insolent or injurious to o-thers, as of bearing it when done to themselves ; anddie with pleasure, to revenge stffrov* Uretcd to12The Exploits of Lord Dundee.their clan or their country : These they, accountedtheir highest ac'corrtpli»haient’b\Their Christianity was strongly tinctured with tra¬ditions derived from (he ancient bards of their coun¬try - For they were believers m ghosts : They mark¬ed the appearances of the heavens j and, by the formsof the clouds, w hich in their variable climate werecontinually shifting, were induced to guess at present,and to predict future events ; ami they even thought,that to some men the Divinity had communicated aportion of his own prescience. From this mixtureof system they did not enter much into disputes con¬cerning the particular modes of Christianity ; butasrery man followed, with indifference of sentiment,the mode which his chieftain had assumed. Perhaps,To the same cause it is owing, that their country is•the only one in Europe, into which persecution nev¬er entered.Their dress, which was the last remains of the Ro-»ran habit* in Europe, was well suited to the natureof their country, and still better to the necessities ofwar,. It consisted of a roll of light woolen, called aplaid, six yards in length, and two in breadth, girtlike the Roman toga around the waist, and wrappedloosely about the body, the upper lappet of whicha-ested on the left ahoulder, leaving the right arm atfull liberty ; a jacket of thick cloth, lifted tightly tothe body ; and, in latter times, a loose short garmentof light woolen, •’hich went round the waist ami co¬vered the thigh. In rain, they formed the plaid intofolds, and, laying it ou the shoulders, were eoversd aswitli a roof. When they were obliged to lie abroadin the hills, in their huating parties, or tending theircattle, or in war, the plaid s?}ved them both for bedand lor covering; for, \yhcn three men slept togeth-The Exploit! of Lord Dundee*.5the first intelligence of his retreat brought accounts,that he was already cut of his enemy’s reach. Insome of those marches, his men wanted bread, salt,and ail liquors, encept water, during several weeks ;yet were ashamed to complain, when they observed,tlut their commander lived not more delicately thanthemselves. If any thing good was brought him toeat, he sent it to a faint or sick soldier : if a soldierwas weary, he oflercu to carry his arms. He keptthose who were with him from sinking under theiraugues, not so much by exhortation, as by prevent-ng them xrom attending to their sufferings. Forhis reason be walked on foot with the men ; now byhe side of one clan, and anon by that of another : hemussed them with jokes : he flattered them withU* knowledge ef their genealogies : he animatedhem by a recital of the deeds of their ancestors, and■f the verses of their bards. It was one of his max-ms, that no general should fight with an irregn'arrmy, unless he was acquainted with every’man^;eqtmminded. Yet, with these habits of familiarity,he severity of his discipline was dreadful: tire onlyunishmer.t lie inflicted was death : “ all other pu¬ll mshments,” he said, « disgraced a gentleman, aitdall who were with him were of that rank; but that’ death .was a releif front the consciousnessof crime.’t is reported of him, that having seen a yputli flv inis first action, lie pretended lie had. sent him to theJar on a ; message : the youth fled a second time : herought him to the front cf the army, and saying.That a gentleman’s'son ought np,t to fair by thej hands of the common executioner,” shot him withlis own piyel.! The army lie commanded was mostly composed of' jigbJaiiders from the in-tenor parts of the, highlands,/The Exploits of Lord Dundee*A people untouched by tke Roman or Saxon invasions*on the south, and by those of the Danes on the eastand west shirts of tlicir country: the unmixed re¬mains of that Celtic empire, which once stretchedfrom the pillars of Hercules to Archangel. As th®manners of this race of men were, in the days of ourfathers, the most singular in Europe, and, in thoseof our sons, may be found no where but in the re¬cords of history, it is proper here to describe them.The highlanders were composed of a number oftribes called clans, each of which bore a different name,and lived upon the lands of a different chieftain. Themembers of every tri be were tied one to another, not cn-Ivbv the feudal but by the patriarchal bond : for whiletlie individuals who composed it were vassals or tenantsof their own hereditary chieftain, they were also ad de¬scended from his family, and could count exactly thedegreeof chcir descent: and the right of primogeniture,together with the weakness.ot thelawsto reach inacces¬sible countries, and more inaccessible men, had, in therevolution of centuries, converted these natural prin¬ciples of connection between the chieftain and his peo¬ple, into the most sacred tics of human life*. The-* It W3» ths junction of the feudal and p.umrchsl authority,pwatug hr tho rigid of primogeniture from chiefcm to ch.eftam,iJi a narrow country, and where the divisions ot land-propertya,.re ascertained, which has dbtingubhed the h,-Want, tribes tn r.iAll others known iu the history of mankind, the Hebrews hadtribes fo’-nded on the connection of rslatiou ; but the patnarc.ialidea was soon lost in the waul of a successive patriarch and thelovu of the tribe in the too great number of mdividuah who coin-nosed it The Greeks and Romans had tribes ; but the only 1m sL which they Fe» dist^gulshcd, were the quarters of the cityl [ which they happened to live. The ancient Germans had inbesia their own country ; but these were asscc.atmn. of fellow-soldier*under a commander they chose, not of relations upi.er the com¬mon head of the family,'to whom their obedience was thoughtdue. The ancient Scythians and modern Tartars were divided intoThe Exploits of Lord Dundes. 7ctstle of the chieftain ■wag s' kind of palace, to which¬ever y mm ofhii tribe was made weleomc, and where-he was entertained according to his station in fi^e ofpeace, and to which all flocked at the sound of war.[Thus the meanest of the clan, knowing himself to be«s well bom as the head of it, revered in his chieftfain-ihis own honour; loved in his clan his own blood;jeompbined not of the diiFerence of station into whichtfortune had thrown him ; and respected himself:|The chieftain in return bestowed a protection, fosnd-icd equally on gratitude and the consciousness of histown interest. Hence the highlanders, whom moreisavage nations called savage, carried, in the ontward(expression of their manners, the politeness of courts'without their vices, and, in their bosoms, the highJpoint of honour without its follies.In countries where the surface is rugged, and thejelunate uncertain, there is little room for the use of(the plough; and where no coal is to be found, andcw provisions can be raised, there is still less forhat of the anvil and shuttle. As the highlandersvibes of relation* ; but. as they continuldiy shifted their habitations,hey wanted those arts of iifa and civilization, which are connoct-d with the establishment of property in land, and with the rejn-ar transition of it from father to son. None of the barbarom.b inds, which made violent settlements in the Roman provinces,"when that empire fell, had nasnes common to-the Lnaliyiduals of(the band ; because they were parts of nations, and not of families.JThe Irish had tribes, distinguished by a common name borne bythe individuals, and connected by a common relation; but theirnle of th.inistry in succession, which gave the election of the heir(to the lord, hrolce all reverenc* for primogeniture, and was a con-,jtinual source of discord among the members. The native Ameri-ilcuus live in the tribes, in a manner resembling the patriarchalUtfe; but while, from their common relation, every member 'a.(beund to another, the whole, from the want of the feudal subordi¬nation, and from the excessive independence of individuals, arebound to one head.$The Exploits of Lord Dundee^.r/erc, tipon these aecqupts, erccludqd from extensiveagriculture and manufacture, alike, every family rais- .ed just as much grain, and. made as much raiment assufficed for ifse’F j and nature, whom art can-seldomftK^c, de»*:nvd them to thei,iieo£ shepherds. Hence,y Wsi not that excess of industry which reduces,ahan tr» * machine, nor that total want of it .which 'sines Lim into • na^ of animals below his mniiThey iired in snilag;* built m vallies and by the*"do* of rivers. At -two -ssatons-of the year, they'<*■;*■* "busy ; the one i» the mtd of spring and begin-.,nin^ or inmincr, when tticy put the plough into the,little land they had capable of rtceiving it, sowed their•grain', and laid, in their provision of turf for the \vin-t«r’t few el ; die other just before winter, when theyreaped their harvest: The rest of the year was alt.their own, for amujenrent or for wwr. It not enga¬ged- in war, they indulged themselves in summer,in the most delicious of all pleasures to men in a cold <climate and a romantic country, the enjoyment of;Ahe cun, »ad pf-tho'.summer-views.of nature ; never-i» the house during the day, even sleeping often .%£ night in the open air, among the mountains^nd woods. They spent the winter in the chuse,While .ihe susi was. tipand, in the evening sssem-bliug roui -i a common are, they cntertaiimd -them- ‘selves with the song, the tale, and the dance * butthey were imforaht of silting days and ni\T'games of skill or o: hlix.^rd ;—amusements, wtielf.keep the body in inaction, and the mind in a state Aftvicious activity f - ; ..s oiThe want ofa-gooU, ;tnd even of a fine ear for.anu^sic, was almost unknown amongst them; because itwas kept in continual practice, ftmong the liyuhiHid'efrom pacsion, but by the wiser few, .because they.9The Esef hlts cf lArd Dundee"knew-’th'at th^.’ov; bf fnu:4c Mth htightenc^ the'a^d softened tae' tehiT>ers of then' • people;Their b<;c d riin dc v/;ts plaintive-even to the depth ofmelamdio'y,; their instmniemaltmher lively for briskdanoeSi or martial for the battle. £onje of-their tunejeven contained the great but* natural idea of 4 history'descriiied in music: The joys of a marriage thenoise of a quarrel; the sounding to arm, vithe rageof.a battle.; t]ie broken ui&ortier of a jlig’nt; the■whole concluding with thns^Jemjv.dirys, end lamen¬tation for the slain. By the loudness and, artificialdissonance of their war instrument the br.g.pipe,which played continually in time of action, their spi¬rits were exalted to a phrensy-of courage in -battle.They joined trie pleasures of history and poetry tothose of music, and the love Of classical learning toboth. FdV, in-order to cherishhigh sentiment in the-minds of all, every considerable family had a histori¬an who recounted, r.nda bard ybo ?nngj the dee ds ofthe clan, and of its chieftain And all, even th • low¬est hr station, were sent to sthool in their youth;partly because’ they'Had noth'irig else to do at thatage ; and partly-because - Hterature was theuight thedistinction , hot the want cf it the inar l', of good birth.The's’Cverit'y of their cfihi^tP/ the heigh::’ of-theirmountains, the distance cf th^if villages fro m each o-ther, their love'of the phase an.d of war, wit'a their de¬sire to visit arid be visited, dbrcedlhem to g reat bo4ilyexertSn^. The ■ vastnesS' of thebbjhcrs' which sur¬rounded them; lakes, 'xncuntMns', rock's cAttracts, ex¬tended and elivgtfed their minds : For they we're notin the strite ef fr/eh who crilykncrV the'v.-ay from onemarket-town to another. 'Tireif .Want df regular occu¬pation led tjfem, like trier aff«ert^ fiparttrrts, ta contexn-plaiic«l3andthe powers ofco&f'jfkatiorr: pdsrerswhielj10Tbt EnfUits of Laid Dundee.ikey exerted in striking oHt the original thoughtswhich nature suggested, not in languidly repeating<hobe which they had learned from other people.They valued themselves^ without undervaluing o-ellier nations. They loved to quit their own country<»o see and to hear, adopted easily the manners of o-^thers, and were attentive and insinuating wherever<*hey went: But they loved more to return home, torepeat what they had observed ; and, among other•Miings, to relate with astonishment, that they hadbeen in the midst of great societies, where every in-■dividual made his sense of independence to consistjjn keeping at a distance from another. Yet they did*iot think themselves entitled to hate or despise themanners of strange.8, because these ditfered from theirown. For they revered the great qualities of other na¬tions ; and only mad* their failings the subject o4an inoffensive merriment among themselves.When strangers came amongst them, they receivedthem, not with a ceremony which,forbids a secondvisit, not with a coldness which causes repentance ofthe first, not with an embarrassment which leaves thelandlord and his guest in equal misery, but with themost pleasing of all polheness, the simplicity and cor¬diality of affection to human-kind ; proud to givethat hospitality which they had not received, and tohumble the persons who had thought of them withcontempt, by, shewing how little they deserved it.Having been driven from the lew countries ofScotland by invasion, they, from time immemorial,thought themselves entitled to make reprisals uponthe property of their invaders; but they touched notthat of each other : So that, in the same men, thereappeared, to those who did not look into the causesof thmgs, a strange mixture of vice and of virtue;The Exploits of Lord Dundee.3jy t'.t’ new ^oyernment; the last to make himselficccssary to it. Dundee had friends in the privyrouncil, who suggested advices which -were given bylimself, and gave him intelligence of every resolution: hat was formed against his measures : he even se-:ret!y gained some olhcevs of the regiments which heKnew were to be sent against him.From Inverness he marched with incredible swift¬ness through different parts of the highlands, to rousenhe highlanders to arms, and to disperse the militia,'vhich were raised against him. His force, iimall at.first; increased as he marched along, till it amounted! o six thousand men. Lord Murray, son of Lord A-jhole, had raised 1000 men upon his father’s estate,nd that of Lord Lovat, who was married to his sis-I er, under an assurance given them of serving the lateking ; but in reality to make them serviceable to theicw government. This body Lord Dundee now car-t ied off' with him ; a desertion from two of their ownihieftains, unknown before among highlanders!'nut it arose partly from their admiration of Dundee,I nd partly from their indignation against Lord Mur-jay’s breach of faith to themselves. While Murrayivas reviewing them, they quitted their ranks, ran tojn adjoining brook, 'filled their bonnets with water,; frank to King James’s health, and, with pipes playing,marched off to Lord Dundee. Simon Frazer, nfter-vards Lord Lovat, who, fifty-eight years after this pe-i iod, lost his head on Tower-hill, for his adherenceo the cause of the house of Stuart, was the person,hen a youth, and a cadet of the Lovat family, whomanaged this revolt. General M‘Kay was sent afterDundee with a force nearly equal in number to his■ iwu': but thete was this difference between the two*The Exploits cf Lord Dundee.that M‘*K*y’s regular troops serve J for pay ; DttnHeerslirpegVilar/were i:icirec! Lj the levc of war.To mark the singular features of singular charac¬ters is one of the chief provinces of history. Dun-,-tlee hadjnflamed His mind from his earliest youth, by'■the perusal of antienf poet's, histonaKs,' and oratorsJvyitli th^love of the'igrciat actions,they praise and de-iscribe.. He is repotted to have iiiflanrecl it still inore,.by listening to the ancient soiigspf the Highland bard?.]irsfn rhp n? afrhs ‘un VstStnmnlH e entered into the prufession of arms wi'fban bmnibnithat Keought to know the services pf different nationsJ.rnid the. duties of ctiflcrent ranks : with' tfhs view, he:vygnt into several foreign services; atjd v.heh lie couldtrot obfaip a command-, served as a volunteer Ai theKgttfel^ SeneiTii, he saved the'Prince of Orange’s life.'.Soon.after, be asked one pf the Scotsh fegimeiits':itithe Dutch slrvjce. The Prince being pre-engaged,refused Igs request. XTpon this he quitteduchservice, saying, “ Tbe soldier who has not gratetude“ cannot bebrave.’’ His reputation, and his servlccfCCSag.diist plte covenanters, obtained him a regiment fromCharles II. and a peerage and High command in the.nnny front Ips successor. In Itis exploits against thesemen, hie behaviour had been sullied by the imputationcf cruelty: he excused himself by saying, “’That, if« terror ended or prevented war, it was true r. rrey.’vDundee had orders from his master not to lightiM’Kay, until a large force which was promised frmxIreland’ should join him-: hence he was kept djtrliivVo hioriths, cooped up in the mot:stains, furious.from restraint. He. was,’obliged, continbulfy, to shiftin's quarters by pVoiiigious.marches, in'orifer to av.oickor harass his cnarnv’s army, to obtr.in nrovisions, ami\namysometimes to take advantages : tire first messenger bihis approach, was generally his own army in sightTJt? Exploit! of Lord Dundee.flout his throat. • Jn 'the mean time, M<s nttsn.iant had'been cn^a^e’d "Vv'vh ihothcr. Sir E^ati, imroVrrnf ofthis, Veprdafehed ffiM for not Having hhir it*his danger. While he was doing stf; the .ntendaait,perceiving a-musket levelled at • Sir -Ewart, “steppedDefor? him, aful received the shot, saying as he fell,« You shall never reproach nte rndrt.'’ The high¬landers fnllhig in with the English'bo^agei gave-ovifthe' pursuit,1 and betook themselves tto plunderingBy this ac-idc'nt, most of- EBKay'a- krniy.^ot safelythrough the p vsi ; yet not a‘above >300 of'them ar¬rived as'Sftirling,‘Hi'a body with’their general. Inthe battle, C?t):;0 were kit {fed, end 590 taken prison¬ers. Maityif'th^ fugitive s were .also'killed or’takenprisoners by the' Athoie men,' whom Lord Dundeehad the day before ordered to be in vaadines at citesoutli etui of the pass : fhe rest dispersed. M‘Kayinot daring to return through the pass, was saved bytaking his way through the mountains to the west h£it. Having stopped upon the fp-t*; height that ccm-fnattded the pvcsp'e'ct of the held and *100 pass, helooked back, and, whin lie saw no pursuit, said tothose arbund hi'rnj that-he wri^ sure the enemy'hattlost their general. Thh express Which wait setit-tdEdinburgh from the field ol battle-with an accountof the defeat j was'detailed by an accident a cli'y-Up-ton the road. When this circumstance was relatedto King-William} he s«hl,.-“ Then-Dundee munt be** dead ; for otherwise'he wott’d have been at Edifld“ burgh before the exprers. ’ The r.igldartders, ac¬cording to the custom of their country, raised a greatstone upon the spot ort-which Dundee fell where itremains to this day.' ‘A letter was found in .Dundee’s porj et from Lordthen the late Ling s secretary of state inThe Exploits ef Lord Dundee.Ireland, •which imported, that a declaration of indeifcr-niiy and toleration, then preparing, was couched insuch terms, that James could break through it whenhe pleased : Sentiments which alone made death pain¬ful to those who were dying for his cause.William paid another compliment to the memory ofD undee : When he was advised to semi a great bodyof troops to Scotland after the defeat of Killikranky,he said, “ It was needless ; the war ended with Dun-dec’s life.” The observation was just: For thoughthe highland army descended into the low countriesof Scotland under the generals Buchan and Cannon,and were engaged in several actions ; yet these ac¬tions were indecisive, and, after two languid cam¬paigns, a peace was concluded. The castle of Edin¬burgh had been surrendered some time before by theDuke of Gordon, whom the superiority of Dundee’sgenius was no longer at hand to command. But theDuke, in the manner of his surrender, preserved thedignity of his rank and of his ancestors, lie said,« lie had so much confidence in all the descendantsof James I. that though he must insist on a pardon“ /or his garrison, he would stipulate no terms forf‘himself.” Upon the peace with the highlanders,the common men retired to their homes ; but manyof their officers were, in consequence of a capitulation,landed in France.Although the fate which attended those officers in France fall*beyond the period of time to which these Memoirs are confined,a dhjressio.n may perhaps-be pardoned, that describes adventureswidth were worthy of the happiest days of Athens or Sparta. Theofficers •were -1 Ja in number, ail of honourable Birth, attached tofheir. chieftains and to each otkar, in their political, principles onlyto blame, yet glorying its them. Upon their arrival in France, pen¬sions were assigned litem by the French K.ng: but, u’tHtn'the con¬clusion of the civ,' war-, these pensions were withdrawn, hecausethe object no longer ettisud far which they, had bccagiyvu. find.15.The Exploits of Lard Dundee*iock of horse •, the attack made upon them withicirown weapon, the broad-sword ; the size of dra-jon horses appearing larger to them, from .a compa-ijson rritn those of tiieir country ; but above ail, aIrlief entertained uni versa! iy among the lower tlasaf highlanders, tlm a war horse is taught to fightith his feet and his teeth.{ Notwithstanding all these advantages, the victorie*f the highlanders have always been more honoar-L>k fer themselves* than of consequence to others.l river stopped their course, because they werenaccustomed to swim : A fort had the same effect,ecause they knew not the science of attack : Theyranted cannon, carriages, and magazines, from theiroverty ar.’ ignorance in the arts : they spoke an im-nown language : and therefore could derive their rc-ources only frqm themselves. Although their re-pect for their chieftains gave them, as long as they;ontinued in the field, that enact habit of obedience,tfhich only ihc excettive rigour of discipline canse-;ure over other troops; yet, as soon as the victory■vas gained, they accounted their duty, which was torontjuer, fulfilled, and ran many of them home torecount their feats, and store up their plunder ■, and,n spring and harvest, more were obliged to retire orleave their women and children to die of famine.1’heir chieftaius too were spt to separate from the ar¬my, upon quarrels and points of honour amongthemselves and with others.After Dundee had been obliged to lose the first, andthereforeibdst opportunities of action, the long-expect¬ed succour arrived from Ireland in the end of June jand consisted of no more than SOQ raw and spiritlessrecruits, without provisions and -ammunition. Hereceived at the same time intelligence, that M<KaytG Tkt Efyhfrs- ff Utd D’ur.dt't,mis nwrckiirg dwoUghvAj-hole, t»>'^taiek'idfc casfe <i tBlair, tktn in thci hands <if onc of James’S-ailhsJr&m ;Bumlee*tor«ssaw, fhaf f.ve loss orr-his place would cli roff llie-communicaMon b?rwe?n the rwd dirisiOns cthe highlartds, in whieivhU own strength •chiefly- Uy- •and therefore he resolved to give battle; Hc marchciisouth towards Athole, with his army fcorisid'erablndtmmished-i> because marly of his . raert hid retiree tto their homes to provide their winter’s fuel.At th'c.castlc-bf’Blair he learned, that M‘Kay, who .with his'foot tind a ftfrv Horse, lay'cncamped atDuilkeddy wah to adwiiTCe next (,iay 'through'the pass bl.Kiliikrari'ky, and that the rest of the horse were tc ,folltnv in a dhy or two after. This pass consists 'ohah open roaci.'in a hn'e enearly ^freight, libout twemiles in length, -where' not Tnpre than six Or eightmen could dt that titpc go abreast. On the right aremountains that seem to rise’to the skies ; on theleft, a precipice hanging over a black and deep ri¬ver, which ;c“TTis to shir tc thfe center: ph the oppo«site sidej’of the river is ';i'prodigious mountain cover¬ed to the fop-frith w’iv’uig 'woodSj across which eaglesand 'Other wilds birds are cohtinv.allV flying"'aheadvantage of an Gphpcn'pfevailThg fronVthchhost'an-cient thrits' among the highlpiidcrs, that it is di|ho-;nourable to attack an enemy at a ofsadyanVage ; andcried aTodtlj “ Henhought not so' nietrri^y Of his foi-■“ lowers as to hdi'evcvthty'had dt-'gunenifed'frdrritlietc genefoas •RiaxmiH of antb. id^k” But in ptf-'•v.ne. hc' assigned f^hons, wise Tirl kveli vvcigbed, for■rtdccting-the adwco-.' 'Tke:rh£s6ffod,-I‘' To ’defend'the'ft^ess; a '.king i’:dce;rgas?Fr dlbcihatcd, was 01% tostreaming. "Dundee wiis pfesseu bj .jins pincers todisfoiVe the passhge v.'-hh P.i'Kay, from the superiority'ofhiS Situation, 'hut refused it'. In public, lie tookThe Exploits of lord Dundee.17;e delay the war, and to iletai{\th:rn5eive) prisonersu in places vriwrethey had bsea aiveady kept too longtc in confinement. With n^ost ease, in open fields11 the. impetuosity of the highlanders shock was to“ he exerted, fdx successive battle^ gained by Mou-“ trbse, ensured't^e. fortune of next day. To al-u low the enemy to pa..-:; over to fairground, wouldu inspire a gfeiVcrpus .confidence into, his own men,“ but htl their opponents upIh.a suspician of thc.se-t£ Cfct cause'of it. Whs’r better.termsicould be ask-“ cd, by'an army for a general action, than unfati-(£,gued,.?.nd on their^own ground, to receive au en-' «in>y> whq.fcad fourteen .mlie.pto march the, same" .'.ay that he foijghr, and who was .ignorant of'thearound that was todrie left Jtina to oecunv ?. The■treatwere~ f»* raq.gaw, tOc stronger wouldash the weaker.oyer the.precipicej inaheir ilight,id all njust..ihll.a• dgf^Oclesr. p.cf ,:o .Itis vlctcn-.; tlie ither endo..,:,-yThe i-'.y/af .b«fere .the l'4ttie,'T>o:idee Jidv,i'j!g> Te-fieeted-thit rl'i'i/higiJatukrs l.-#d noc bten tfrk&m R0->neral.ietk)»s .bee the tattk okThibp'na'egli,. wldcfehad beeu fought To years: bti£wre> fandobciotlytl^itojJAto pvt-their yt;;r<ige.-tj*th& an,atianM, aidfctnised a ihjse-maxk tgibel«;5dc»:i:iyK.:n^i i-min croup*lii.ajrtasfaftt, bfc ^6ttad evetyaiin..aUtis -poStjr,;m(l18The. Explaits of Lord Dundee.firm in it. The event of the stratagem removed ti ediffidence of the general, and confirmed the confi- *dence of the soldiers.Mbit’s army, after marching from Dunkeld inthe morning of the sixteenth of July, and resting twohours at the mouth of the pass, began to enter it aboutmid-day. The soldiers marched through with *weat every step, impressed with the grandeur and no¬velty of the scene, even with the silence all aroundthem, which seemed the forerunner of danger, andwith the consciousness of their own inability to give'assistance to each other, in case they were attacked.They advanced into the open field at the end of thepass with slowness and caution, deriving fear frotT. :that very security which was offered them ; and atlast observed Dundee’s army resting upon the side ofa monfitain opposite to themi-in one line, but a shortone, because his men were fewer in number thanM'Kay’s, and lay thick upon the ground. But theirnumbers appeared greater than they were; for, tho*!there were vacancies along the line, occasioned*! /spots of wood spread here and there upon the moun¬tain ; vet the imaginations of M«K»v’s soldiers filledall these vacancies with armed enemies. Dundee hadchosen this station ; because, while the bushes con- ‘cealed hit own motions and numbers, it gave him anopportunity or observing those of his enemies, secur¬ed him from the attacks of cavalrv, would add rio-lencc to his charge if he descended upon the enemy,and make retreat, if retreat was needful, easy to menwho could fly over mountains with a speed which noregular troops could eijual: and heresolrednotto fightuntill near sunset, with a view, that if he gained thevictory, he might give it a dreadful completion duringthe night ; and if he was defeated, that he might re-19-The Exphits of Lord Dundee.■e ■without the fear of pursuit. M'Kay having ob-1 rved the position of his enemy, formed the troopsihich advanced foremost into the open field, into a* te of three men deep ; and lengthened the line alonge field, as more troops arrived successively fromie mouth of the puss, partly with a view to outflank'undee, whose line he saw Was short, and partly torevent surprise, by making all the ground known tois army. He continued in this position two hours,:> consider what to dp, and what to expect *, and injne mean time, the two armies continued looking tosach other. At the end of that time, M'Kay, sus-tecting Dundee’s intention to take advantage of thel ight, and afraid to encamp in a place surroundedrith enemies, used various means to provoke the.nghlanders to an engagement, but in vain. But1 Dundee, observing that by the position of the twoar-nies his own might be outflanked, and so be defeatedwen whilst it was defeating, took advantage of hissituation to make what motions he pl'ibcd without;hcir being known : He detached Ins clans into se¬parate bodies ; removed them to the right and to theleft, but in thick order, leaving thus his centre weak;and, half an hoar before sunset, rushed down fromhis station, and began the attack, by columns, uponthe wings of the enemy, with a view that, whetherhis own centre was broken, or his wings broke thoseof his opponents, the battle might-equally become ir¬regular, and be decided hand to hand, not by the re¬gularity of musquetry. Montrose carried the battleof Allderne by the very same disposition: All Dun¬dee’s views succeeded ; his thick columns pierced e»-^jly through the thin files of the regiments, pressedon the sides th»se who stood, turning round, met infront those who were giving way, and almost in an20The Exploits cf Lord Dundee.instant hurried the enemy of the field. One regi¬ment* and the half of another, which were in thecentre, not daring to advance, saved themselves bydeclining to be victorious in the post where they woreplaced. They.alone retreated : the rest fled. LordDundee, who had been the foremost on foot in the,attack, was the foremost .on horseback in the pursuit.Deeming the flight of the enemy to be nothing, un¬less even escape was rendered impossiole, he pressedon for the mouth of the pass to cut off their retreat..Isa little time, lie perceived he had outrun his men ;he stopped ; he waved his arm in the air to make themhasten their speed ; and poin.te:’ his hand to the pass,as it lie already grasped it. Being- conspicuousiri per¬son and action, he was observed, and a muskct-b.allaimed at him found entrance in an opening of Iris ar¬mour beneath his arm-pit, occasioned by the*eleva¬tion of his atm. l ie rode of the.field, ordering hismischance to be concealed, and, f.riutiug, droppedfrom his horse. His wound was. mortal j yet, whenhe recovered from his faint, he wrote an account of;tltc action to Kiisg.James, fyd pi high thoughts;, andtreating his wound as a trifle, lie.then desired to.be raUedj IcJQ.ktJ to the fun’, amf. S'i'lvCt I how•“■things went i” -Iking to;d> ■‘flAll was well“7Titen” Srtijjhc, \ 51m- .w-sli,” arid.expired... Inthis battle, a/t incident, p-aijsed ^hw^uristicxit a.high¬land engiwcvncnt., ; hlr. bwai Qamnron of.Lochiejl,the meat gfclhpu.of the 1 ■gi.-.inder'i, next to Dundee,foug'ut attevkktl; every-.v/hvie by iiis ugr.-Ds so;h .v.hoamong highh,«<kts.-:*s ucc,punted a.kind of rdatipn ;'having grappkd. .wul: e.n /piiicer,. Loth fell -p-vpr a ropk,; jtui, ip,the id-ii. Air.Ewan lest h:s..aword:The o.ncerrsisod his to kid him.-y/iK-ii on.ihe ground ;but Sir Ewan, fhstr.dug.upon him •wi.th.hir tc-rh, toreTAe Eft kits ef Lora Dundee. 13, they could fcprejid tm-es fold? m cloth bclo-^r, and: above tliem. 'Vjlie garters of tiicir stockings wered under the knee,, wuh a view to give nr ore free-rn to the limb, ;• and they wore no breeches, thatey might climb mountains with the greater ease,to covering of their head was a broad round wool-bonnet, but of the strongest milied texture, calcu-ed equally fo save from cold, from rain, or. homs strokes of an enemy; the must simple of ailad-dresses: Yet, by turning up the inont of thea net, which was the token of defiance, they gavea martial air •, and, uy adding a bunch of foliage ofithers, even a fine one. The lightness and ioose-ss of their dress, the custom they had of going al-tys on foot, never on horseback,' their love cf longarneys, but above all, that patience of hunger, andcry kind of hardship, which carried their bodiesrward even after their spirits were exhausted, made?m exceed all ether European nations in speed andrseverance of march. Montrose’s marches weremetimes sixty miles in a day, without food or halt-1, over mountains, along rocks, through moraSses.encampments, they were expert at forming bedsa moment, by tying together bunches of heath*d fixing them upright in the ground: An art which*’ the be were both soft and dry, preserved theirirdth in Lae field, when other soldiers lost theirs.The inclemency of their weather gave a rigidity'-their features, because it forced them to draw up■ e cheek for the protection of the eye ; yet this con-iction gave a fire to the eye. In work they wereAward ; but in exercise they shcWfcd all that va-'^ty of natural grace which Continually attends theiman form © ien not fashioned by art, and ur.con-ious of observation.14 The Exploits of Lord Dundee.Their rrms vere a broad sword, a dagger calleddurk, a target, a musket, and a pistol: So that thncarried the long sword of the Celtes, the pugie of tlRomans, the shield of the ancients, and both kinoof modern fire-arms, all together. In battle thethrew away the plaid and under garment, and fouglin their jackets, making thus their movements quicer, and their strokes more forcible. Their advamto battle was rapid, like the charge of dragoon:When near the enemy, they stopped a little to drabreath and discharge their muskets, w hich they thedropped on the ground : advancing, they fired thepistols, which they threw, almost at the same instaragainst the heads of their opponents: and then rus'ed into the ranks with the broad sword, threateninand shaking the sword as they ran on, so as to co:quer the enemy’s eye, while his body was yet uhurt. They fought, notin long and regular linebut in separate bands, like wedges condensed and firrthe army being ranged according to the clans whitComposed it, and each clan according to its familie:so that there arose a competition in vaiour of cl:with elan, of family with family, of brother with hr ither. To make an opening in regular troops, andconquer, they reckoned the same thing ; because , ,close engageuients, and in broken ranks, no regulitroops could withstand them. They received tlbayonet in the target, which they carried om the le1arm ; then turning it aside, or twisting it in the ta .get, they attacked with the broad-sword the eneirincumbered and defenceless; and, where they counot wield the broad-sword, they stabbed with tldurk. The only foes they dreaded were cavalry ; rwhich many causes contributed : The novelty of tlonctny-i their want of die., bajanet to receive ti'Tht Exploits of herd Dundi’t. $3'}»£ tHcmwIrts, therefore, a load uj**n the late Kmp, •whoae fir.ar-ice» could acarcely suffice for Imutelf, they oeritiooea ;b.Ht Pnnc*for leave to farm thetnselvea into a compaiiy of private cantineli,aaking no other favour than that thev wight he permitted to chi oattheir owu officers from their own number. James a**ent«d. fiteyrepaired to St. Gemaiua, to be reviewed by him before they weremodelled in the French army. A few day* after they came, theypened themselves in accoutrements borrowed from a French re¬giment, and draws up in order in a place through which he wasto pass ;is he went to the chase;—an amc-ctnem of which he be¬came paasisnately fond after the loss of his kingdom*. He askedwho they were r and was surprised to find they were the s-meineu with whom, in garbs better suited to their ranks, he had thoday before conversed at his levee. Struck with the levity of hisown amusement, contrasted with the misery of tho-ie who weresuffering for him, he returned pensive to the palace. The day hereviewed them, he pawed along the ranks, wrote in his pocket-*book with his own hand every gentleman's name, and gave himhis thanks in particular ; and then, removing to the from, bowedto the body, with his hat off. After he had gone away, still think¬ing honour enough was not done them, he returned, bowed again,but burst into tears. The body kneeled, bent their heads aud eyesstedfast on the ground, and then starting up at once, passed himwith the usual honours of war, as if it was only a common reviewthey were exhibiting. They were sent from thence to thefrontiersof Spain, a march of .000 miles, on foot. Wherever thev passed,they were received with tears by the women, wit'iinspect by someof the men, but with laughter at the awkwurdne a of theirsituationby most of them. They were always the foremost in battle, and thelast in retreat. Of all the troops in the ser vice, they were the most! obedient to orders. Twice only they disobeyed: the first time’ was at the siege of Rose*, where they had fallen into diseases, andbeen ordered to quit the camp for their recovery ; but thev delayedi to obey, until they had seat a remonstrance to Marshal Nol lies,; against what they termed an affront. The second instance of. their inatvntion to orders, was upon the following occasion : theGermans had madcalodgment in an island in the Rhine : the French,• from an opinion that the river was impassable without boats, had! ordered a number for the passage : among other troops intended forthe service, this company was ordered to keep a station opposite to• Nothing marks the poverty of King James's genius more than »saying which is report'd of him upon his being told that there was to.bra mace between France and F.nsland. “ Fh bien, nous uurons tiesS'ery wdl then% wc AaU hare fine24The Exploits cf Lsrd Dundee.the island, r.ntil the hoau should arrive; hut fin*vvjr, upon rta-mi'.ation, ti.e ford^ thoush difficult, not '.npass-hie, they; accord-,ing to the nrstoiu in highLtnders in wadi tty tiindugiv rivers, joieinytheir iiauds tog-ether, jukI enteth'g tite river in u iise with its cur¬rent, the strongest men la the upper part’, and the weaker below,to that-those who wire'highest uo the strenin broke all its force,and tying their arms and clothes on their shoulders, passed to theisland in sight of both armies on the opposite batiks, and drove tentimes their number from the lodgment. The: French cried out iaadmiration, “ A gentkatau, in whatever station, is still a gentle*“ man.” ' “ Le gr.utiflmaimc est toujours ger.tdhcrr.n e," Theplace is called C late d' Jlcoasc to this dry. ,"Ail-collective human virtues arc sirllied with the - tel fishness ofindividuals. The officers, to whom they had y hied their indepeu-dencc, and whom they had chosen to cousmand their equals, cheat¬ed them of their pay, poor as it was, of their clothes, and of pre¬sents .which the generous had sent them. The trench, inattentiveto their patience, fatigues, and services, sent them frotu the fron¬tiers of Spain to Alsace, a march as long ns- the former. In thisroute, tlntir-cluthGS'fell to tatters : after they passed I.yons,' thecountry wascovered with suow : they often wanted the necessariesof ii-i e ; yet no Complaint*, were heard amongst them, except for thesufitrings of him whom they accounted their sovereign. After sixye -.rs service, they were broke, whipi tlic peace was concluded, onthe higher part of ihs Rhine, 1500 miles tfom their-homes, andwithout any provisiciif-made for them. At that time, only sixteenof them had err. -ved the fate of their companions ; and of these,.only four arrived in.Scotland, to give warning- by-their example totheir countrymen, though to too many of them in vain, to distrustforever Lite promises and flatteries of France.FINIS.