THElounger BrotherOR. THESUFFERINGSSAINT ANDR.E.BT MADAME GENUS.Stirling, Printed by C. RaadaH.THEYOUNGER BROTHER,CR, THE SUFFERINGS OFSAINT ANDRE.flF'nE father ot St. Andre was calledJL Monfieur de Vilmore. fie was9. man of mean extraction ; but in ayears had amafTed a prodigiousfortune. He had feveral children, ofwhom our good St. Andre was thej youngeft. M. de Vilmore afptred to theI honour of marrying his daughters intoI fome noble families in order to givei diffioftion to his own by the fpiendouri of his alliance?, and being defirous,i moreover, to leave his eldeft fon in the| .pofiefTjoa of a vaft eftate. and of exalt¬ed rank, he fcrupled sot to facnficethe young St. Andre tothefe ambiti usnews. He fent this profcribed fon toa diitant and mean boarding fchool.4where his education was miite neglect,ed ; but having naturally a fine genius,and excellent underftanding, the youth,fo^n furpafled the t xpr&ations of hismafttrs When 1:« arrived at his fixteenth year, he was informed that thechurch was the oniy choice he had tomake. A lively imagination, powerfulpsiTions, and his knowledge of theaffluent circualliances of his family, alltnfpired him with an infurmoun::sverfion for that profefflon. Dsfi;of diverting his father from a refolutiorcwhich was fo fatal to his peace, he requelled leave to return home that Infmight open his mind to him. M dViimore, as he had no fufpicion of thefviews, had no objections to grant hiathis favor, and conleqnently aftea kind of exile, ever fince he was fivyears old, he revifited hjg father aa tftis fami!y» for the firft time at the agjsof fixteen. He arrived at his father" fhoufe on the very day when ciof his fillers was married to the Maq.uis de In the feenes of«pulence and grandeur which he nobeheld, he ftw his brothers and fide;treat him as a flranger, and even hfather behave to him withand contempt. From fiua a we^c^m&rhe foon divined what misfortunes wereto await him. He perfidud, however,in communicating his featiments to hisfather, to whom he addrefTed himfeltwith equal firmnefs and refpeQ;. “ I donot aik. Sir, faid ne, tor affluence; ai moderate competency will content ms,I but do not deprive me of my liberty,i nor compel me to enter i"to a ftate, to\ which I have au invinciblr averfion,**| M de Viimore enaeed at this unex-j peded pppcfmon* loaded the generous< youth, with the r.ioft fevere reproaches.I,: Ycur obflinsey, l -iA he, *111 ruin.1 you. But iuy kindn'rfs induces me to; give you yet feme time for rdi ction,i fend you to oue or your auats in Ficr.-2 df rs, where y^u fhall reajaia fix months,and if, i’t the expiration of that time.1', if you do not fubaiit to my pieafure, l.■|fhali employ the moil forciole moons toqmaks you feniible of your duty."i The unfortunate St Andre fst out ferJl-ifle. overwhelmed with the deepeft.pilidion, but uofhaken in his refolu-dioD, A crptivating psrfor, an amiable.icharacter and a certain f'weetnefs, andtcigr.ity in his manners, abraded uni-•verfal notice in an exile, the fev#ntycl which wos foftened by the pleafurrsof focicfy. Of an edy temper and per-'f' £tly inexpe'iencsd, he knew not howto refift the folicitations of a variety ofnew friends by whom his companywas perpetually courted. The remi¬nent    was then at Lifle; thedTicsrs played very higdi, and knowing the raft riches of M de vTilraorethey frequently engaged him as one ofheir dangerous parties. He began, ais meft commonly the cafe by winring, and he ended, which is ftiil mor"inevitable:' fev lofing. ’1 he hope of recovering his money plunged him irto deeper p’ay, till at laft his henoev.’3 engaged for 24,000 francs.th:3 extremity he wrote to his fathoand confefl'ed his folly in the mo ft pthet’c terms. He received no anfwebtu: he w".s arr fr-ed and confined in tlcaftle of Sr'.uniur. To this puniiiin tut he fu bn octet! with a refigtlatiqlwhich no one could have expedfelfrom a temper that was naturally vislebt. Knowing that all his debtspbid, he felt lentiments of gratituthat enabled him to endure petia treatment wYich he had no re'.fon toihnagine wou! i bs oi long du-at on.■But he had yet no idea of the in^xorvib’e cruelty of his father Contrary tohis expectations, he was detain id aprifcner two years. Vt length thedoors of his prlfon were opesre i andhe heard this fentence announced:( You if u(t either giue ycur word ofihonour to enter into hoiy orders, orgo out a cadet to the Eoft-Indies.’'1 do not hefitaie a moment, anfwer-ed St. Andre ; 1 (hall rejoice to leavencountry which is now a f 'reign one•to me, fmce it no longer containseither a father, a relation, or a friend."'IThis anfwer determined his fate: he'was fent to Brelt, where he embarkedt .VO days af'er.I . A fine conhitution, however, enabled■him to fupoort t ic moil fevere fatigues:iwhile for.itude and bravery render.-d,h'm fuperior to misfortune He dtf-'tbiauiihed hiaafelf greatly ; he rof: topreferment and icon emerged from■poverty and obfcurity fhefe tardy fuc*ceiTes were productive of others more'advantageous ft.il. H-viag acquiredreputation and friends, he was jff ici-'^ted in fevtral enterprifes, which in acountry, at that time fo fertile in refourrces, in lefs than five years fecured biiria happy & independant fituation. Cor:tent with a moderate fortune, in thl:pcquifition of which, he had not one.;rffviaicd from virtue, and having rifeilto :n honorable pofl in the fervice ctie company, he now began to turchis thoughts towards his native courntry. Still young, his heart was neninfenfible to the defire \thich vanitSinfpired of displaying before his fa.ui ’ ithe rapid produce of his fervices, witfja refolu ion, however, of retutBtng r;the Eaft Indits, although not as thrflave of neceflity, but as ardently sfohing flill to faperior honors HHfirher, informed of his good fucce1*';had cendefcended for two years padacknowledge him as his fon. He evc«(WTOfe to him, and apreared to ha rget the better at laft, of all his form <prejudices. St Andre embarked wit?;Pis who'e fortune in p^per. A truo icorc uded between the two rival corpanics for a year feerned to prort.iiithat fecurity in his voyage, which cciii;net permit him to dt.er i'. This isprudence was the foutce of all his fu ;PQ'.cat misfortuacs. lie was fcarce ist [tZy when the truce was broken, hisIhip was attacked by the EngSiih andhe wras conveyed a prifoaer o Fal¬mouth, a pert town on the foutheracoait or England tie lofl at once,his'liberty and fortune, and all his letter¬ing profpects inftantly variihed. Hewrote to his father, but to augment hisi calamity, the only arfwer he received,i was full of the moll; bitter reproaches.At the expiration of fix months, lie| v/as releafed from confinement. HeI embarked at Falmouth, and loon bc-1 held his native faore, but with emo.j tions tar difitrent from thole, he had! fondly hoped to experience*, and hei arrived at Brdt, nearly in the fame•’ utuation in wnich he had left it. fixf years before. vVithout money, with'1 out the common nectflaries cf life, and•i without refources, he rtcoiletteda fur-1 gcoc, named Bertrand, at whole houiethe had formerly lodged, and from■‘whom he had received many proofs of! himdIhip. He foon found tnis wor-itny man, who offered him hts ppw'er.'i St. Andre did not bluih to be indebtedito the kind offices of friendihip. iie1 wrote to his father ; and. having never1r10received his portion, which in happL-rtimes he had even forgotten, he nowfound hirofelf obliged to demand it.M. de Vilmore anfwered, that hewould give him no money, but oncondliion that he would immediatelyembark again for the Eafl Indies, ina Ihip that was juft ready to fail. Thisumxamp'ed kverity now entirely alien¬ated a heart which had long before beenfufHclentiy exafperated. In the anguifhor relentment and defpair, his fortitudeferfeok him He fell dangereufly ill,and was fcon reduced to the laft ex.tremity. Bertrand left him neithernight ncr day ; but was layilh in ati theattentions of tendernefs which themoibgenerous iriendihip could icfpire. Thisgood man had a daughter about eigh¬teen, who, imagining that fhe onlyobeyed the dielates of virtuous com.paftion, was conftantly at the beddideof the unfortunate St. Andre, and join¬ed with her father in the employmentof a nurie. Bertrand rekfed to her th«.'adventures of his unhappy patient,with h:s great profpc;icy in the Baitlames j he extolled his courage, perk-vtrar.ee, and good conduit* or whichthere wtie ireny wiu.tilts then at3reft : and they both bewailed a fatehat was fo caiamituous and unmerited^I One night, when St. Andre was given■ver, Blanche, 1’eated forrowfuity oa•he bed fide, was obferving witn deepmention and compaflion, the unhap-y object of fo much sare unci anxie-k’. Fhs paleoefs of death ovetfpreadjis features; but the trace# of youthyere ftiil vifible, and rendered themnote affli&ing. His clofed eyes feem-d clofed for ever : one of his handsj/as extended on the bed. Blanche,?ith an irreuftible impolfe, droppedae of her hands on his, and finding•' cold and litelefs, (he thought himead. “ O Heavens! (he exclaimed,it is ail over ! Uaiortunate youngr man!” Terror, compaffioa. a fottermotion ftill, now deprived her ot alli.tterance, and Ihe funic down on theed without fenfe cr motion. At thisaitant St. Andre opened his eyes, andhe tirlt objedt that ft ruck him wasHanche near hirn in a iwoQn—it wasouth and beauty furrounded by theaades of death, lie utters a piercing;ry, afliftance arrives; and Blanche is.ecovering. This alicdijing feene isxpiainea , and St Andre revlys, onlv-v» ■■ hui12to fsc! all the eraotions of the xr-oilpalaoEste gratitude. Thus, ia thetnuift of painful horrors, and on thborceraof the grave, cid love uaite toever, two unfortunate hearts.St Andre who fooa began to be. fenfibie of his gradual recovery* yielded tcthe dangerous impreulon of a pallionthat for the firft time he now ixperienccd. He foon obtained the confehioton which his happinefs dependedBlanche had betrayed herie.f, even betore Ihs was beloved : and now, happjand tranquil, confirmed by tranfport©f joy, what her defpair had aireaddeclared Bertrand himle f, irrpeileiby pity, tendernefs, and perhaps atnaLicion, coufented. after a feint refift;acce, to the united entreaties of SAndre and his daughter. He approveof the idea of a fecret union ; and SAndre, fix months after his i.Incfs'}being then twenty-five married Btanchi:and attained.the height of his wifheaNeither utfiring, nor ixpcdilng arntailiffanct from his father, he rdonvtrto conceal h s marriage, and to tak ;•!.the firft favorable opportunity cf raiturning to the Balt Indies, accompaniesby his v de, and her father. He took tn1| nso-fTiry meafiyes. snd, b? the ajSit-ance of his reputa'ioa and his irieadf,foon faw the peflibhity of being em-ployed m an advantageous filiation,in the tnean time Blanche became| pregnant. Tkis induced him to urgeI h:s ioiicitanons with more ^aroednefs,I in the hope of being able to let fail,i snd to snive in India before his wifeI could be de ivereJ. Bet unexpectedI delays occurring, he perceived at laid,I that it would be iirpofli >ie to avoid theI fata! difeovery. that mutt render his 1s-i cr*t public Inceed, it began new to1 be no longer a mvfh ry in the town.I He therefore took the refnluiion toi communicate it himfelf to his father,i which he did in the following ierk-r : —i « Sir,<€ Gan you recollect the namei & ex'ftenceof an unfortunate man,whol hss teen fo lorg forgotten ? 1 ought toi fuppofe, that you have ior ever re*; r.ou ced that right over my eleitiny1 which nature gave you. I know wbat'were my early errors, if my ycutai ctuid not then render them txcuiab ei in ycur eyes, i have fon etimes flatteredinyelf fine?; that an (xhs of fix years.14tpent So ufeful aud (l may prefume toadd) glorious, may have induced you toforget them. Nirverthelefs, cruelly for-faken iu my laft misfortunes, I havefound in a itranger only, the compar-iion. afiiftar.cs> and tendernefs of afather Without renouncing him whohas rejected me, I have thought myfeifat liberty to adopt him whole virtueand beneficerce render him worthyof fuch a facred title. The father I havechcfen is in obfeure and needy circum-ftasecs j he is neither difiinguilhed byfamily nor fortune, but he is virtuousand fenfibte. By accepting his favourby entering into his family, and marry¬ing Ids daughter 1 am become his fon ;and the happinefc lie has conferred oame, far exceeds, as a compealation, adthe rnifery 1 have end urea. I have adu« rd'pect for the diftindfions eftabiilh-ed in iociety ; and had i b;en of a rankthat fueh au alliance would have dif>honoured. I Ihouid have had the rtfo.lution to factifice my pafiir>n, and •.yitii <it the whole happineis of my life, torhe honour ct my family. But, lthank God, no fuch obftacle exufed.ivly wife's birth ts. equal to my own :and her fortune is no: inferior to mists.»i'tr father, irideed, is pjor, and minel rich *, which conftimtts all the differ-’ice between us. No rea'bn therefore^luld or ought to have diverted merom this Bound by a tie which'.ye and honour render equally dearlid facred, I entreat you to believeliat ambition, authority, and even thei.ws themfelve* would be armed inkin to difftdve it.' i an: going to the..alt indies to begin a rxw career. 1:onjure you not to trouble my beltiny,y clamours which cannot change it.:defire only peace, and that 1 may to-di; forget a country which i abandonlerhaps for ever, fids is the only fa-bur I can prelume to implore : I hopeexpeft it fromyoui juiiice."S This letter excited the moil t rribiemotions in the brealh of M _ de Vil-lore. His vanity was too deeply hurtot to rad'e ti;e utmoft fury of ineigna-or. the corhpariloa he tween hisimily and thar of Bertrand, appearedi him the height ot iciuit. He mitant-I procured two kiiers de catcher St.'more was tom- from the arms t f his•■iUrrebd wife : he was hurried, loaded.' I16uith irors, inco a duncecn : anBlarche, notvtkhftanding htr ycutand condition, met uith a fimilar fatIn her prilbn, this uahappy vzomabrought into the woild the unfortunatfruit of her love for St Andre. The iwejaid have robbed her of her infanbut her refinance, htr lamentation!and her tears, 'were powerful encugto rreit the favage bofoms that now fo|the firft time veere fenhble to pitThey permitted her child to remainai d that fits might preferve his lifeII.e was careful cf her own. in th<mean time. St Andre driven to delporaticn, laving, and furious, invekeevengeance, and demanded Blanche otdeath, ihres months were paffed ixthis oreadful fituanor. At lengtn hxwas informed that a perfon was arrive.,with a mefTage to him from his father)“ My ti ther iJ he t xclaimed : I hav.no iathtr h' At thi s inftant he btheldpe:f n whom he knew to be a iiewarcf M. de Viimcre. “ Ah !" cried Sr»ndre, ‘ has the barbsiian, who fen3 tu, it la ft htaro my prayers? Anyou tl ; n.tfl-Rgtr cf t-^th ? ibat itde only fevur i cun txped from him.'*» Con pcfe ycurfelf, Sir,” ar.fwered tl i« 17ftewa’d : compofe yourf^lf. I a>ucome to announce to you that good for¬tune to which you could havs no rearonto afp're. While you were accufiogfortune, {he was aftive in tout favor.Your brother is dead, and you are be-come, the natural heir of a tether, whois ftill difpofed to pardon you, andito receive \cu with open arms”** What.]” interrupted ot Andre. isiirsy brother dead ! heaven is juft: ir:has torn from ro.y perfecutcr the obj itwhich his pride ten ter:d- fo dear to[him ; and I. the victim cf his c"u.jl: ambition, have not in vain called foriveng'-anc j.” ‘‘ Hear me-” rcf<ime*i: the ftexvard: ‘ initead of invective,: endeavour rather, by penitence toiraerit this returning gooinefs; M de(Vilmore, has been the creator of histown formne. and he can diQj-fe ofit as•;he pleafes, tie as two daughters^iwhoui he can e ricb at your txpence.But having no grr.ndchdd of his na *»e,..and pitying your etferr. U m; fortunes,he iqvi'es you to ' at !i cc flira fro riwhich deaut has juft inatched yourbrother. Bur you muff iaragiiie whatan afcfo.u e fubo.iffion i requ fite topur-chafe this paternal bounty/’ 45 ipeakIIVi' iSSir ” coidly replied St, Andre, <c 4father who would at length aclcnow-iedge rae- who for my hand tc-wipe away his tears, is certainly insapabie of requiring any diigraeefui condirionr. Sp'ak therefore j I lifatn t«you without fearing fuch ” *• Totmufl then," replied the fleward, toever renounce a degrading as well ail egal marriige A dec -nr fituation hli e fliall comp-;:fate Blanche for thidiltrefiingconlequences of your mutuaimprudence. Your confent alone iwanting to dilfolve this fhamefuconneftion : ev^ry other ftep is aireadtaken : in a word it is on thefe termionly that you can afpire!’ Enough,*interrupted St Andre, ‘ I forefaw thideted'able propofal irom the begiamisI have had the patience to hear youand now in your turn cbferve m lanfvrr ‘ t may be psrfecuted an eoportfled ; my wife and child may bi si'a from me ; and I mar be d paveof life iifeif: oil t-hefe era ikies may hir fl 6Ed by tyranny armed with powtbut non our is a jnwel they cm nevetear from me: i will ever prefyrvi;pu e and unfpetted : aud f fin'll r (happy to fuller all for the dear oibyZ \*F my efteem and lov* This is mynal and irrevocable refo'ulion. Neither;iolence nor tortures nor t re dreadfulpparatus of death ; nor’in^ in thetaiverfe fnatl ev- r pel me to changet." The fteward *uld have replie.' ;:)ut St Andre refufm^ to hear another(ford, he retired with the ftiame andregret of having in vain endeavouredo fecu :e an inccrruptib e man. Blanche vi!n her prifon. experiences a perffcntionftill more odious and urjuft. Theyimportune her to renounce her rights,land her title of wife to St Andre 1 heypropofe on thefe terras^ an advantage-0115 fettlement for herfeif and child.Entreaties and menaces are employedby turns. Her invariable anf^er wasthat file expected from her huibandthe example ihe ought to imitate Stiehoped for an example that wouldevince his courage and fi ielityandfhe added that in every thing, fhe wasdetermined her conduct fhou'd be con¬formable to his. M. de Vi'more de-fpairing to vanquifh fuca infl -xihle re-(iitance abanciondd himfelf to all theoutrages which pride an relentmentcould excite in the meft cruet and ob¬durate mind. From the weeping ~io-20ther’s arms they tore th-at dear chitthe only fupport, the only coofolatiof her life. The unhappy pair weloaded with heavier chains. Their iprifbnment was rendered more cruand more dreadfulftill; and to heighen this barbarity, they were informthat fuch was the treatment they weever to cxptft Four years elaphin this horrin e fituatien. St Andhowev r fupported by love madells cuty to ave and futf^r for the de.objedfs that were torn fro n ?'i n.inaetatigapie pans and perfeverancehe at lalt iucceeded ii fane meafurcin influencing one of his gao’ers ; whalthough he could not be prevaileupon to connive at his efcape procurehim the coufolahon of pens, ink, anpsp r tie t - n drew up a inemort;in which he wrote a very circum ft untilhiflorv cf his life This he concludeby d;c!aring that he demanded nother favor than his liberty, hi i wifand child ; and that he had no preleflions whatever to his father’s fortunenor ev-:n to Iris own legal portiorThis memorial was infcnbed with the.lwords : — To my. CountryThe n-a.i whom St Andre had gair»d. caufed this memorial to be frcretlycinted; and many copies of it werebon difperfed. A coiinfelior. celebrat¬'d for great talents and public virtue,vas deeply affe&ed by the perufal ofhis hidory ; and he was nobly anifcki>us of the glory of fupporting fuch amgu'ar and interefling caule. fa fpitad the influence and oppolkion of M.(fe Vil nore, he food made the courts'if taw refouad with the cries of the un»ortunate dt Andre. ile enquiredifter the fate of Bertrand, and he found[hat grief had put a period to his days,tbout fix months before. Thofe whodetained the young fon of St Andre,were compeUed to deliver him into hishands ; and he obtained an order forihe immediate enlargement of the un-nar.py pa r. He then repaired to thepriion where Blanche was confined; (he*as quite ignorant of the meafures he22d taken j and in the agonies of def-bair. fh: expected from death alonerous counlsllor led by humanity, en-‘::ered this dreary abode, where youth,oeauty, and virtue in diftrefs, prefent-ed a mod aftefting pidure. He heldSt Andre's ^hild in nis arms; and^ bywoes.1’hegene'Ithe gicojv.y light of a lamp, he fBlanche lying upon ft raw in a ftoridungeon ; her hair difhevelled ; wno other covering than rags : her ftdrowned in tears ; and her hands lo;ed with chains, lifted up to heavlHe flopped ; and with a pity ming'with admiration, ccnteraphtes iyouth, beauty, and the horrors tJfurround her Blanche imagieing hto be the gaoler,'lifts up her langthead, and with a faint and dying voidemands what was intended f‘ 1;coI^e,,, cries the cosnfeilor, “ to pmy homage jo fuuering virtue, andterminate its forrows.” tie then pftrates bimfelf at her feer, and pre( -jher child to her. Blanche, reeoheclihim, exclaims, Ah! if he be rdtor•to me, life is yet fupportable !’' 8would embrace this dear child, but teffort is too much. The excels of jthe tranfports of her foul, with tweaknefs to which ihe is reduced, ehauft her little remaining flrength, a|fhe faints in the arms of her deliverWho can exprefs the emotiens of ftprife and edtacy in this virtuous a:feeling heart, when, on recovering f'fenfes, fiie is informed that fhe is n< igoinc to fe£ her huibir.d ; that libertyis reftored to both ; and that the bene¬ficence of an utter ilrarfger would re¬unite them for ever! “Conan’ f/idthe counfellcr, *« leave this dreadfulplace, that has too long witnefied thelamentations of innocence Comej thatI may reft ore to the arms of a lather anda hufband, two objedb fo dear to hisheart. But,” continued he, *■ you cm-not depart in this unworthy drefs. Ihave ferefeen every thing : in this bun¬dle you will find whatever is necefttiry.Drefs yourfelf while I go to the gaol¬er, to Ihew him my order, and, in aquarter of an hour, I will return toyou.”The counfellcr returns; not lefs de¬lighted, nor Ids affe&ed than Blanche,lie prefents to her a trembling hand ;he aflifts her 'in carrying her fon; andhe takes her with traniport from theabode of bitternefs and woe. A coachin waiting fcon conveys them to2 the prifon of St: Andre. They areadmitted. Blanche, fondly clafpingher fon, runs to throw herfelf in thearms of her hulband. At this momentthey experience whatever love and1 ioy can infpire, in two fond hearts,24fxa’ted fudderujr from tie depth C(dtfpair to the fummit of felicity. Theccunfwlicr flood oppofite tr> then:costemplating with rapture this delight*!fulfceoe. * Ah!” thought he, ‘Thisis my work ” anrl doubtlefs he was netthe lead happy of the three.It is in this retreat, that the remain¬der of a life, hitherto fo turbulent, newtdeals away in delightful repofe, withall the fweets of ferenity and peace,Content with his humble fortune, heforgets, in the embraces of his wifand children, that fplendid lituation, twhich his birth entitled him.