THESINGULAR ADVENTURESOFSIR GAWEN,and TheENCHANTED CASTLE.A FAIRY TALE.TUBSIN G UL AR. ADVEN T U RESOF AKNIGHT.Ye powers of darkness and of hell,Propitious to the magic spell,"Who rule in silence o’er the night,Be present now-——Francis:TOWARDS the latter end of the reignof Henry VllI Hr Gawen a n.an ofi'ome fortune, k confiderablecuriofity. fondof enterpnle, and infatiate of knowledge,rraveiled through the northern counties ofEngland The following Angular adventureis fiiil extant among the family writings, andis ftill recorded by his poOerity. “ it wastowards lunfet (faith the manufeript) whenSir Gawen after having traverfrd a very loneand uTfrequented path, arrived at the edgeof a thick and dark for eft ; the fky was fud-denly overcaft, and it began to rain, thethunder rolled at a diftance, and fheets oflivid lightening flalhed ferofs the heath.—Overcome with fatigue and hunger, he rodeimpatiently along the borders of the foreft,in hopes of clifcovering an entrance, butnone was to be found. At length, juft as hewas about to difnount with an intention ofbreaking the fence, he difeerned, as hethought, fomething moving upon the heath,and. upon advancing towards it, it provedto ne an old woman gathering peat, andwho overtaken by the ftorm, was hurry¬ing name as fall as her infirm limba wouldcarry her l.ie figut of a human ere turefilled the heart >i o r Giweu with joy. andhaftity riding up, he enqul ed how far hehad deviated from the ri^ht road, and wherehe could procure a night’s lodging fhsold woman no m fiowly lifted up • pilfiedhead, and. ckfcovered a i'er ,f features wn-.chcould icarcely be ca < ■ numanj her eyeswere red, pierc;n6, a;u diftorted, and, roUling horribly, glancing upon every objact4but the perfon by whom fiie was addrefled,and, at intervals, they emitted a flrong difa- .greeable light; her hair, of a dirty grey, ,hung mattered with filth in large mafies upon vher fhouiders, and a few thin portions rulh- ;ed abrupt and horizontally from the upperpart of iier forehead which was much wrink¬led, and of a parchment hue ; her cheekswere hollow* withered, and red with a quan- ■tity of acid rheum, her npfe was large, prominent and fharp her lips thin fiimny andlivid her fear teeth black, and her chin longand peaked, with a a number of budiy hairsdepending from its extremity, her tuils alfowere acute, crooked and bent over herfingers, and her garments ragged and flut¬tering in the wind, dii'played every poffibie Ivariety of coloux. The Knight was a littledaunted, but the ©id woman having men¬tioned a dwelling at feme diftance and of.fenng to lead the way, the plealure receiv.ed from this piece of news effaced the form,er impreflion, and getting from his horfe,he laid hold of the bridle,* and they (lowlymoved ove^ the heath. The dorm had now©eajed, and the moon fifing, gave prefageof a fine night, jnft as the old woman, tak¬ing a hidden turn, plunged iato the woodby a narrow path, and almoft choaked upwith a quantity of brier and thorn. Thetrees were thick; and fave a few glimpfes ofthe mooh, which now and thea poured lighton the uncouth features of his companion,all was dark and difntal ; the heart of Sir -Gawen mifgave him, neither fpoke, and theknight purfuedhis guide merely bythencifefhe made in hurrying through the bushes,which was done with a celerity totally in-confiftent with her former decripitude —Atlength the path grew wider, and a faint bluelight, which came from a building at fomediftance, glimmered before them; they nowleft the wood, and ifl'aed upon a rocky anduneven piece of ground ; the moon ilrug-gling through a cloud, cad a doubtful anduncertain ligh\, and the old woman with aleer whjch made the very hair of Sir Gawen{land an end, told him that the dwellingwas at hand. It was fo, for a Gothic caftleplaced on a contiderable elevation, now camein view; It was a large mafly ftrutture,much decayed, and fome parts of it in a to¬tally ruinous condition, a portion, howevdri of the ke^p or great tower was still entire,as was a!fo the tmerance to the court or; incldilre^ prefer vcd probably by the ivy,whole fibres crept round wi.h felicitous care,Large Irag-nents of the ruins were fcatteredaoout covered with mofs, and half funk inthe ground and a number of old elm trees,through whole foliage ti»e wind fighed v.-.tha iullea and melancholy found, dropped a6deep and fettled gloom, that fcarce permit,te 1 the moon to ftream by fits upon thebidding Sir Gaven drew near; ardentcuriofity mingled with awe, dilated his feo-fom, and he inwardly congratulated himfeltupon fo fmgular an adventure, when turn*ing round to queftion his companion, aglimpfe of the moon poured full upon hiseye fo horrid a conux^ure of feature, fowild and preternatural a combination, thatfmote with terror, and unab'e to move acold fweat trickled from every pore s»ndimmed'ately this infernal hcinc', f.izi p himby the arm Sc hurrying him over tre draw,bridge to the great entrance of the keep theportcullis fell with a tremenduous found, &the knight (bring as it were from a trancedrew his fword in ad to deftroy his tr ach-ercus guide, when inihuitly a horrible andinternal laugh burft from htr. ard in a mo-u.er.t the whole caflle was in an uproar pealafter peal ifiuing from every quarter, nil at■length growing faint, they died away arda dead filence enfued. hi- Gawen whoduring this ftrange tumult had coll:died allhis fc«trered powers, now looked round himwith de ermine.’ rtfdutiop; Iks terriblecoir.parien had difappearecl, and the moonfinning full upon the porfru’jis, convincedhim that any elcape that way was imprafii-cabie ; the wind fighed through the elms :the (care! oul, uttering his dhcor^ant not6%broke from the ruftling bought and a dinttwinkling light beamed from a loop.holcnear the fummit of (he great tower. S?^Gawen entered the keep, having previouflyreafoned himfel into a ftate of cool forti¬tude, and kent up every power to the appal¬ling enterprife. He extended his fword be¬fore him, for it was dark, and proceededcarefully to fearch around, in hopes eitherof difc vtrng feme aperture which mightlead to the veftibule or ftaircafe or of wreak¬ing his vengeance or*, the wretch who hadthus decoyed him. All was ftill as death ;but as he i-ro e over the floor, a dull hol¬low found ifi'ued from beneath, and render¬ed him apprehenfive of falling through intofome difmat van t. from which he mightnever be able to extricate htmfelf. In thisfit nation, -dreading the effeft of each lightfoorfiep, a f und, as of ma ;y people whif-permg fbuck his ear ; he bent forward nf-toning with eager attention, and as it feem-ed to proceed from a little diflance, beforehim he determined to fol'ow h : ! e did fo,. and inftantly fell through the moulder ngpavement, whilft at the fame time pcais ofhorrid laughter again burfc with reiteratedclamour from every chamber of the caitle.Sir Gav. en rofe with conliderable difficulty*and much {funned with the fall, althoughsfortunately the fpot he had dropped uponwas covered with a quantity ot damp andleft earth, which pave way to his weight.He now found bimfelf in a larpc vault arch-«d in the gothic manner, and fupported byeight malfy pillars, down whofe fides thedamp moilhire ran in cold and heavy drops,the moon fhining with great luftre throughthree irorvgrated window ■. which althoughrufty with age, were ftrong enough t» refillthe efforts of hir Gawen. who after havingin vain tried to force them, looked aroundfor his fword, which during the fall hadftarted from his grafp, and in fearching theground with his fingers, he laid hold of and Idrew forth the frelh bones of an enormousfkeleton. yet g^eafy and moift from the de¬caying fibres: he trembled with horror—acola wind hrulhed violently along the fur-race of the vault am! a ponderous iron doorfiowly grafiog on irs hiogs. .opened at onecorner and difclofed to the wandering eye ofSir Gawen a broken ftairccfe down whofeftcps.a blue and faint light ffifhed by fits, Iiike the lightening of a fummer’s eve Ap¬palled by thele dreadful prodigies Sir Ga^enfelt, in Ipite of ali bis ndclutior,. a cold anddeath hke chill prevade his frame and kneel¬ing down, he prayed fervently to that Powfc |er, without whole mandate, no beii'g is Ut jloede upon another, and feeling Litnielf morecalm and refolved, he again began to faarchfor hisfword, when a moon beam falling onthe blade at once reftored it to him.Sir Gawen having thus refumed his wont¬ed fortitude and reioiution, held a parleywith himfelf. and perceiving no other wayby which he could elcape, boldly refblvedto brave all the terrors of the ftaircafe, andonce more recommending himfelf to hisMaker, began to afeend. The light ftiiifialhed, enabling him to climb thofe partswhich were not broken or decayed. He hadproceeded in this manner a confiderab e wavmoounting- as he fuppofed, to the fiunmit ofth.i keep, whe fubdeniy a ftmli and agonizing Ihriek iflued from the upper part ofir._ and fomething rudely brufhing down,grafping him with tren ehduous flrength; ina moment he became motionless, co'd asice, and ie!t himfelf hurried back by forneirreftitable beings but juft as he had reach¬ed the vault a ipe&re of fo dreadful a ihape{talked by within it, that draining everymulcie, he iprang from the deadly grafp :the iron door rufhed in thu *dtr upon itshinges and a deep hollow groan refounded,from beneath. No looner had the door clof-ed, than yelling fereame and founds whichabnolt lufpendrd the very pu'fe of life iflu¬ed from the vault, as if a troop of hellilhfuries, with their chains untied, were dafti-i»g them in writhing frenzy, and howlingto the uproar Sir Gawen flood petrifiedwith horror, a ftony fear ran to his veryheart, and difmayed every fenfe about him ;he flared wide with his long locks upftand.ing flifiy, and vhe throbbing of his heartopprefied him. t he tumult at length fut>*tiding. Sir Gawen recovered fome portionofflrength ; which he immediattiy madeuleof to convey hhnfelf as far as poffible fromthe iron door, and prefently reaching hisformer elevation on the Oaircaft, which,after afeending a few more fteps, terminatedin a w inding gaiiery. The light* which h idhitherto fafhed ineeffamly, now difappear-fd, and he was left in alirofl fofal darknefs,except that now and th n the moon threwa few cool rays through lome broken loop¬holes, heightening the horror of the feene.lie dreaded going forward, and feariuilylooked back left foaie yelling fiend fliouidagain piunge him into the vault. He floodfulpended vfitn apprehenfion j a mournfulwind howled through the apartments of thec;ftle. and liflening, he thought he heardthe iron door grate upon its hinges ; heilarted with tenor, the iweat flood in bigdrops upon his forehead, his knees fmoteeach other, and he rufhed forward with def.perate defpair, till having luddenly turned |a corner of the gallery, a taper, burningwith a faint l;ght, gleamed through a nar¬row dark, padage : Sir Gawen approachedthe light; it came from an extendve room,the folding doors of which were wide open :he entered; a fmali taper in a maffy fitvercandleftick ftood upon a table in the middleof the room, but gave fo inconliderablc anillumination, that the one end was wrap¬ped in palpable darknefs, and the otherfcarcely broken ia upon by a dim light that! flreamed th ough a large ramified window,covered with thick ivy An arm chair flut¬tered and damp with age> was placed nearthe table, and the remains of a recent firewere ft ill vifible in the grate. The wa<nf-cot of black oak. had formerly been hungwith tapeftry, and lever a 1 portions itill clungto thoie parts which were near the fire ;they poflefl'ed fome vivacity of tint, and withmuch gilding, yet apparent on the chimneypiece, and ieveral mouldering reliques of'coftiy frames and paintings, gave indifput-abie evidence of the ancient grandeur ot theplace, '•ir Gawen clofed the folding doer.;,and taking the taper, was about to furveythe room, when a deep hollow groan fromti:e t ark end of it fmote cold upon his heart;at the lame time the found as of fomethingtailing with a dean weight, ec.ioed throughthe room. Sir Gawen replaced the taper,the;flame of which was agitated, now quiv-12ering, funk, now ftreaming. flamed aloft,and as the laft. pale portion died away, thefcarce diflinguifiled form of fomc terrificbeing floated flowly by. and ngain anotherdreadful groan ran deepening through thegloom. Sir Gawen flood for fome time in¬capable of motion, at length fumrroning allbis fortitude, he advanced with his fwordextended to the darkeft part of the room :Jnftantly burft forth in fierce irradiations ablue fulpherous fplendour, and the mangledbody ©t a man riiitorted with the agony ofdeath, his very fibre racked wiih convuiflonhis beard and hair it iff and matted withblood, his mouth open, and his eyes pro¬truding from their marble fockets, ruihedon the fixed and maddening fenfes of SirGawen, whofe he^rt had beat no more, hadnot .a Kifs as of ten thoufand fiends loudand horrible, roufed him irom the dreadfulfeene, he llarted uttering a wild ihriek,his brain turned round, and running heknew not whither, burfl through the fold¬ing doors Darknefs again fpread her fablepail over the unfortunate Sir Gawen, andhe hujfied along the narrow paffage witn afeeble’ and faultering itep. His inteiiefifcIhook, and overwhelmed with the late ap¬palling obje£», had not yet leccveredanydegree of recollection, and as he wanderedin a 'dream, a ccnfufed train of horribleideas paired unconne&ed through his mind :at length however, memory refumed herjfuaclion, refumed it but to daunt him withhat rowing fugged ions ; the direful horrorsof the room behind and of the vault below,were (till prefent to hii eves, and as a manwhom hellifh fiends had frightened, he floodtrembling, pale ana flaring wild. A.M wasnow filent and dark, and he determined towait in this fpot the dawn of day, but a fewminutes had fcarce elapfed, when the irondoor, fereaming on its hinge;, bellowedthrough the murmuring ruin. Sir Gawennearly foisted at the fonnd, which p?.ufi»gfor feme time again hmisd upon tkc wind,and at lafl died away in fiirin melancholyfimeks j again all was filent. and again thefame fearful nolle itruck. terror to his foul.Whilft he was thus agitated with horror andapprehenfion. a dim light ftreaming frombehind, accompanied with a fofc quick andhollow tread, convinced Sir Gawen thatfomething was purfuing him, and (truckwith wildering fear, he rufhed unconfclous! dojwn the fteps, the vanlt received him, and■ its portal fwmging to their clofe, foundedas the fentence of deatn. A dun las'idfmoke filled the place, in the centre of wtiicharofe a faint and ticketing flame Sir Gawenapproached, and behelii a corpfe fufpendedaver ir by the neck, its fat dropped, and14the flame'fiafliing through the vault, gleam¬ed on a throng of hideous and ghaftiy fea¬tures, that now came forward through thefmoke Sir Gawcn, with the defperate va¬lor of a man who fees deftrud on beforehim, ran furious forward : an univerfalfhriek burfl forth ; the corpfe dropped intothe fire which riling with tenfeld briiliancerplaced fuU in view the dreadful form of hi*internal guide dilated into horror itfeU*her face was pale as death, her eyes werewide open, dead and fixed, a horrible grinfat upon her iratures her lips black, andhalf putrid, wire drawn back, diiclofing afct of large blue teeth, and her hair/ ftand*- inp ftifiy ereft was or a withered red. SirGawen feit his blood freeze within hi=r?, hislimbs forgot to move, the free, enlarging,as it came, drew near ; anci fwobning he, fell forward on the groundS:ow palled the vital fluid through thebolom of oir Gawen, fcarce did the heartvibrato to its impulfe ; on his pa!iid fore¬head fat a chilly fweat* and frequent paunsfl. ok his limbs; but at lengtn returningwarmth gave fome vigour to his frame theenergy of life became more fuffufed, a foc^h-ing iangour ftoie upon him, o d on open*; ing his eyes rulhed neither the images of; tl ;ai!; or the rites of witchcraft, but the foftthe fweet asttt tranquil feenery of a fun.mer’s moon light night t-nraptured withthis fudden and uaexpe&ed change, SirGawen rofe gently from off the ground, over his head towered a large and majeftiei6oak, at whofe foot, by forae kind and com* ,paffionate being, he conclwded he had beenlaid. Delight and gratitude dilated his heart 1and advancing from beneath the tree, whole [gigantic branches fpread a large extent of ,Ihade. a val*1, beautifsl and romantic, thro*which ran a clear and deep dream, came fullin view, he walked to the edge of the waterthe moon Ihone with me'iow lultre on itsfuiface, and its banks fringed with fhrubs,breathed a perfume more delicate than theodors of the eait On one fide the groundcovered with a vivid, foft and downy ver¬dure, Wretched lor a confiderable extent tothe borders of a large (orell which fweepifiground finally cluied up the valley j on theother it was broken into abrupt and rockyroslfcs fwarded with mofs, and from whofecielts grew thick, & fpreading trees, the roots !of which, walh.’d by many a fall of water, !hung bat;e Sc matted from ifitir craggy beds. ^tir Gawen forgot in this delicious vale,all his, former fufferings, and giving up hismind to the pleafmg influence ofcurioiity &wonder^ he determined to explore the place |by tracing the windings of the lircam. Scarceh^i he e .tered upon this plan when rnuficof the moli ravifhing fweetnefs filled the airfometimts it feemed to float along the val¬ley, fometimes it Hole along the iurtace ofthe water now it died away among tue' weeds, and no v with deep and mellow fym-: phony it iwelled upon the gale. Fixed inaftonifhm^nt. Sir Gawen fcarce venture ! tobreathe, every fenfe. fave that ot hearing.; feemed quite abforbed. and when the laflfaint waro'mgs melted on his ear, he ftirt-ed from the f„ot, folicitous to know fromwhat Bemg, thofe more than human ftrainshad par!ed but nothing appeared in view,the moon full and unclouded, (hone withuntifuai iuftr', the white rocks glittered inher beam, and filled with hope, he againpurfued the windings of the water, whichcondufting to the narrowed parts of the val¬ley continued t :eir courfe thro* the woodfir Gawen entered by a p-tth, fmooth butnarrow and perplexed where although itsbranches were fo numerous that no prefer¬ment could be given, or any direft routeIon/ prcelled in. yet every turn prefemed1 fomething to amufe, fomethiig to Sharpenthe e :ge of refearch. The beau y o! the! trees through whole interftices the moongleamed in toe moil pi&urefque mariner :s the gltmpics or the water, and the notes of; the nighciBgale. who now began to hit thevaiiey with her long, were more than fufli-cient to take of the fenie of fatigue, and hewandered on fti!! eager to explore, ftiil pan-i ting for further eifeovery,. The wood nowr became more thick, and obfeure, and atalmoft dark, when the path takingfnddenly an obliqsie diredioiu Sir Gawenfound himfe^f on the edfje of a circular lawnwhofe tint and f ftntfs were beyond com¬pare and which feemed to have been li^ht-1> bruAed by fairy feet, A number c f fineold trees, around wbofe boles crept the ivyand the woodbine; rofe at irregular diftan-ees, here they mingled into groves, andthere feperate and emulous of each other*they fheok their airy fumnuts in difdain,T H water, which had been for fome timeconcealed now murmured through a thou-fand beds and vifiting each little flower, ad¬ded vigour to >ts vegetation, and poignancyto its fragrance. Along the edges of thewood and beneath <he (liadows of the trees,at Jnrumerable hod of glow-worms lighted ,their inocuous fires, luftrour as the gems of ,G^lconda, and Sir Gawen, defirous yet .kmger to enjoy the feene, went forward with ;light fo'^tfleps on the lawn ; ail was calm,md txcept the breeze cf night that fighed jfc<t and tweedy through the world of leaves ,a perfect ‘fitence prevai ed. Not many mi-mites however baJ efapfed, before the fameenchanting mufic, to which he had liftened fwith fo much rnptvre in the vale, again ar- ir flee his err, and prefentiy he dilcovered j,cn the border of the lawn, juft rifing above 1the wod. and on the bofom of theair * Be;n» of ‘ He oft delicate form ; fro*nhis fheuHers ftrea r*e^ a tunic of the ten-d Tfft bine his win s and f^et ’vere clothedin Jowny filver and iu h:s urafp he had awand, white as tbe nountai • fnow. He rofefwiftly in the air his brilliance became ex-cefli -e from the lunar rays, his fong echoedthrough the vauft of nitrht, but having quick¬ly cftminifhe ! to the fize and appearance oftVe erening ftar. it died away, and the nextmom nt he w.s loft in a;*her. Sir Gawenftil! fixed his eye on that part of the heavenswhere the vifion had difrpp ‘ared and fhortiyjiad the pleafure of ag.;in faetng the ftar-iiketadience which in an inftant unfolded itfeifinto t' e full and fine dimenfions of the beau¬teous Being, who having colleded de v fromthe cold vaes of Saturn, now dtf;ended ra¬pidly towards the cnth and waving hi*wand as he puffed athwart the woods a;nu nber of iifcc form and garb fl roundhim and all alighting on the lawn, feparat-led at equal diftances on its cireumferance,and the (baking the'4-' wings^ t?/hich (oread aperfu ue through the air, burft into o en-cral fpng. Sir Gawen^ who appreheofi.; ofbeing discovered, had retreated wrmi ieifhadow of fane m flV oakc now waite i with(eager expedt itioa the event of fo fi.iguiar a30Tc«ne. In a few moments a bev/ of elegantnymphs dancing two by two, iffued frontthe wood on the right and an equal numbt rof warlike knighrs, accompanied by a bind.*>f mindrels from that of the ieft. The knightswere clothed in green* on their bofoms ihoaea plate of burn fhed fteel. and in their handsthey gtafped a golden targe and iance ofbeamy lailre The nymphs whole form andfymmetry wtre beyond whatever poets dreamwere du-iTed in robe=: white their zoneswere szure, drcpt with diamonds, and theirligiu brown hair decked with roles hung ina^ ple ringlets^ So quick, fo light and airywas ther motion., that the iurf. the flowers.fiimale not to th-e gende piefiare, and eachfmiling on her favorite knight, he flung hisbrilliant arms afuie k mingled in the dance,j Whilft thus thev fl; .v in rapid meafuresb’er the lawn, Sir. Gawen forgetting his fl-tuation and impatient to falute the afiembly,involuntarily ftept forward, and inftantane-bufly a fhrill and hollow gulf of wind mur- ^inured through the woods, the moon dipt[ato a cloud, and the knights the dames andxdal fpirits vanilhed from his view leavingthe amazed Sir Gawen to repent at ieifure,bf his precipitate inirufioa; fcarce however,had he time to deter-mir;e what he (houldburfue when a gleam of Hght flalhed fudden-y along the horizon and the beauteous Be*ng, whom he firft beheld in the air, Itoodpetore him, he waved his fnowy wan-.', andpointing to the woodi which now appearedtpar kiing with a thoufand hres, moved gent¬ly oa, oir Gawen felt an ir refit’cable impultewhich compelUd him to follow, and havingpenetrated the wood, he perceived manyDright ravs of light, which darting like the .beams of ths fun through every part of it,moft beautifully illuminated the fhafes of thetrees As they advanced forwards the radi-jnce became more intenfe and converged to¬wards the centre ; and tne fairy Being tuni¬ng quickly round, commanded Sir Gawen:,o kn^el down and having fqueezed the juice4 2cf an herb Into his eyes, bade him now proceed, but that no mortal eye, uniefs its pow¬ers of vifion were increafed, could endure thegkry that would fhortly burft upon them.Scarce had he uttered thefe words, whenthey entered an amphitheatre ; in its centrewas a throne of iv. ry inlaid with fapphires,on which fat a female torm of exquifite beau¬ty a plain coronet of gold obliquely c; jfleclher flowing hair, and her robe of white fattinhung negligent in ample folds, ground herflood five & twenty nymphs clothed in whiteand goldj & holding lighted tapers j beyondt!>c-Ie were fifty of the serial beings, theirwiigs of downy fi ver ftretched for flight, &each a burning taper in his hand, and laftly,on ti.e lircumferance of the amphitheatre,Ac ne one hundred knights, ia mail of tem¬pered fleel, in one hand they {hook aloft alarge targe of mafly ciamond. and in the o-ther flaihed a taper So exc*(five was thei refle&ion that the targes had the hi it re otan hundred funs and when Hi iken, lent forthftreams of .vivid lightening; from the gold,the fi vsr. and the lapphires, rufhed a floodof tinted light, that mingling, threw uponthe eye, a feries of revolving hues. SirGawen impreflhd wirn awe, v,ich wonderand delight fell proftrate on the ground,i whilit the fairy ipirit advancing, knelt andj prelentcd to me queen achryftal vale. She| rofe, Ihe waved her hard, and fmi'ing badeSir Gawen to approach Gentle Granger,((he exclaimed) let rot fear appal thine he-rttor to him whom courage t.uth and p'etyhave diitinguifli. d o*/ friendfliip and ourlove is given. Spirits of the bled we are,our fweei e mployment is to befri nd thewremhed and the weary, to lub the ’•orture‘ of an&uifli and the horror of dcfpair Ah !< never (hall the tear of innocence or the phintof forrow, the pang of injured merit, or thefigh of hopelefs love, implore our aid in vain24 'Upon the moon beam do we float, and light,as air. prevade the habitations of men, andhearken, O favored mortal! I teil thee fpi-tits pure from vice are prefent to thy ir/moflthoughts, when terror, when madnek whenfpp&res, and when death furrounded thee,our influence put to flight the nsmifters ofdarknefs we placed thee in the moon.lightvale; and now upon thy head I pour the plane¬tary dew, from Hecat’s dread agents, it willfree thee from wildering fear and gloomy lu.pdrftition ’ She ended, and Sir Gawen im-!patient to exprefs his gratitude tfas about toipeak. when fuddenly the iight turned paleand died away, the fpirits fled and mu he foftand fweet v.-as heard remotely in the air SirGawen {tarred, and in place of the refulgentfcene of magic he beheld a public road, hishorfe cropping the grafs which grew upon itsedge, and a village at a little diftaoce, onwhofe fpire the riling lun had Hied his earii.eft beams.