THEMAD PRANKSOF«1 om 1 ram,Son in LawTOmother winter.TO WHICH ARE ADDED,His Merry Jefts,ANDPleasant Tales.FALKIRK,FEINTED BY T. JOHNSTON,1817,theMAD PRANKSOFTOM TEA M.& 41 *CHAP. I.A //terry yeft betwixt old Mother Winter}and her Son-in-la'si, J em,THERE was an old woman, named |Mother Winter, thst had but one ifon-in-law, and his name was Tcm ; and 1though he was rt man’s eftate, yet would |do nothing but what he lifted, which griev-Jed his old mother to the heart. Upon a Itime being in the market, the heard a pro-£cl»math n, That tboje that would not work iJljould be whipped. At which the old wo-|an Ieapt,and with greatj'y home/he comes, [meets with her fon, and tells him the mayor»of the town had made a decree, which was, iThat all tbofe that would not work Jhould b:\whipped. Has he fc, fays he, marry, my|bltffiig on his heart; for my part, I'll not.jMbreak the decree. Si the old woman left.Iher fon, and went again to the market; /heiwas no fooner gone but her fon looks into) ithe ftone pots, which fire kept fmall beer inr:and when he faw that the beer did not work, I •) with .carter’s whiphe lays or theniss hardas he could drive. The people who Tawhim do itjtcid his mother what he had done;which made the old woman cry out, C! thatyoung knave will b * hanged. So in thattone home fne goes. Her Ton feeing her,c«me running srid foaming at the mouth tomeet her, and t Id her, that he had brokeb th the pots: which made the odd worn a ato fay, O thou villain! what haft thou done?O mother, quoth he, you t^ld me it wasproclaimed, That all thofe that would notwork mud be whipp’d; and I have oftenfern our pots work fo hard, that they havefoamed fo much at the mouth, tb. it they be-fo- uled all the houfe where they flood; batthele two lazy knaves, (aid he, t; Id me;That they d’d never work, nor never meantto wurk; ai d therefore, q\i th he, I havewhipped them dea h, to teach the red oftheir fed ws to vwrk. or never lock me inthe face again.r ZZCHAP. II.Another Ifrft of old Mother Winter, andher Son 1 on.T J PON a time Mother Winter fenc her^ Pm Tom int" the market, to hu’, her.apenny-wcrth of foap iud gave him twelve ■( 4 )pence; and charged him to bring it homeiafe. Tom told her ir ihould be fo; snd tothat end it fnould be fafa brought home, ac¬cording to his mother’s charge, he goes and jbuys one penny-worth of fosp, and hiredtwo men with a hand-barrow to cwry thefoap, and four men with brown bills toguard it along to her, giving them the ele¬ven-pence for their pains, which made hismooher great fury, go to the mayor of thetown, who committed him to prifon: Now,the prifon-window joining dole to the ma¬yor’s chamber-window, Tom, and fomeother merry prilbners like himfelf, gettinga cup of good liquor in their heads, beganto fmg and r^>ar and domoneer, infomuchthat the mayor heard them that night, andchared them they fhould leave ofi*drinkingand ftnging of bawdy fmgs,'and fing goodpfalras. Tom told him, That he fhouldhear that he would amend his life, if hewould pardon his fnult. The mayor faidthat for their mifdemeaners, they fhouldbe that night in prifon, and upon amend¬ment, being neighbours, he would releafethem in the merning. They thanked themayor, and Tom Tram prevailed f» farwith a friend of his that he borrowed threeihilKngs; which three (hillings he fpentupon his fcllow-pfifoners, which m^de thepoth- men be ruled by him, and do what heenjoined them to do; fo when the may«r~ /( 5 )was gone to bed", the prifar-windoW, TvSbeLre < bferved, being dc-fe to the ch/.m-bsr-windov/, they began to ftng pfalr-'s foloud, that the mayor could tske r > reft;which made him caufe one of his fecvantsfo bid diem leave tfi’ flnging. Tern Tramaid Tnat it was the mayor’s gqpd coun- ^el that they (hould ling pfafras, and ftngthey would, as long as they lived there.Which made the mayor bid rhe jailor turnthem out of prilhn, •/'ith >ut paying the iffees.OO COO CCO COC H A P. III.llo'ia 'TV.?: ferved bis fjofiefs. and a TohaccoSeiler, being another of his J efts.TT happened that Tom was fent <>n an^ errand forty miles from his ab^de, overheaths and plains, where having difpatchedhis b-ifnefs, he chanced t * be lodged in a,fnom that opened into a yard, where hisbeliefs kept many turkeys; which Ton*feeing, he tiiruds pins into two <f theirheads and in the night they died. The- woman in the morning wondered how thefowls fhould come to die, Tom perfuadedher that there was a great ficknefs wherelie dwelt amongfi all manner of fowls, andwWlied hi; beliefs to fling them away, thewhich Hie did. Tom watched where flie(6)fla.vg them, and when he took his leave ofhis hvftefs, it was at fuch a time when fhewas bufy betting bread into the o\en, fothat he was fare ihe could not loi-k afterliim. So he g-'-es and wraps the turkeysin his c-'at.find away he runs; bu findingb.is two Turkeys heavy, ht fees a man thatfold tobacco up and d< wn the, country , atthe foot of a hill, when he alighted to leadhis jhr rfe down the . hill, at 'he bottom ofwhich he falls down, and lies cr irg ifhe had broke > ne of his legs and makesto the man a ny ft piteous lamentation;that he was fix or feven miles from •'nytown, there being no h ufe nears and t ithe was like to peri,:' f r want 11 iuebour.The man sik'd, Where he dwelt ? he laidwith a knight, to whom T< m did hvo 3sa jeller. d'^e nrm kn' wirg the, knight,and thit king Tom’s leg had real!- beenbroken, with much ad lilted h>m upon thehorfe. When Tom was r tinted, he pray¬ed the man to give him his mailer’s tur¬key’s, Ton: m?.de the I? rfe t; gallupaw ay,crying out, I ftiall be killed! I flvill bekilled! O my leg! what ftiall Id.! O myleg! The man feeing him gone llo d inamaze, and knew not what to think; nev-erthelefs, he durft not leave his turkeysbehind him,for fear of difpleafing the knight,but carded them lugging along netting andfv/earing in his boots, till he came to the( 7 );ltxt town, where he hived a h rfe to over¬take Tom, but c uld n .-t, until he came tothe knight’s n; ufe, where Tom flood to at¬tend his coming, looking out at the window.V/hen the man alighted, Tom then called(to him f > 1 ud, that moli of the houfe heardtint; O faid he, now I fee thou art anfhenetl man, I had thought you had fet meupon your headflrong horfe, on purpofe to(deceive me f my turkeys. The man re-i.plied, A p x take you and your turkeys,i f r Tnever was play’d the knave with foi in my life; I hope that you will pay i r:) the hire of the horfe, wificn I was forced;l to borrow to follow you withal. Thai l -.vltl*1 laid Tom, with all nly heart,C H A P. IV.JIcm> Tom paid the Man far bit Ilorf-IJirc*f P OM rifle d the man what wray he in¬tended travel ? Marry, faid tire man,I mull go back with the hr,rfe I have hired.Qurth i om. What did yon give f.r thehire rf him ] Said the man, I gave fiveiiiiilings. Well, faid Tom, I will fet youto the next pub ic houfe, and then we willeat one of the turkeys; and I will b ingy-u in good Ibyer, the five firillings for theh-r:e hire, x he place appointed being t\v j-Tniles t-fT, Tern rpp intc three or four cliih s companions to meet him, who did n6t|iif-il, f r they were there before Tom and|ihis friend, who came riding up'.n the hcr-fes. Tort npen the hired horfe, and theman up n his own. T m alighted, and•called the h ftler to fet up his horfe, andto give him oats enough, and caufed 2 tur¬key to be roafled with all p- Bible hafte;which, according as he commanded, xvasparfonned- But Tom whifpered to his con-forts, and wiibed them to ply the manwith drink; while he, in the meantime,went to the hoft, and told him. They camef> be merry, and money was Inert withhim and deft rod he would lend him tenfliillings upon his horfe. The h .ft havingfo good a pawn, lent it him, knowing itwould be fpent in his houre. S j Tom wentand gave the man hve fliillings f r the hireof the horfe, aad fpends the other five ftiil-lings freely up m him : by that time theday was very nigh fpent, fo that the mancould get no farther that night, but Tomand his companions to k iheir leaves.andreturned home, and the man went h:s wayto bed little fufpeaing the trick Tom hadput upon him. In the m vning, the msnrifmg betimes, thinking t > be g >ne, couldhave5but one horfe, unle's he paid ten /hil¬lings, for Tort had left vrtrd with his hoft,th.at paying the money, be fttould have bout( 9 )I hnrfes. The man feeing himfeif cozenedI again by Tom, paid the ten {hillings, andijj wiihed all fuch cheating knaves were hang-f ed, fj away he went fretting and foaming1 to fee himfeif abufed.; ■ - • ; ■ • •' - j' ’f ‘C II A P. V.: IIoiv Tom ferved a Company ■:/ Gintleimu.1’T happened that a company of gen'.lemenb;ingd;fpofed to create mirth, rode fome: miles from home to be merry, one of themwould need have Tom to wait upon him,■ and Tv m was as willing as he to be in thatcompany, but as they were coming home,cne cf them curs the reins of Tom’s bri¬dle; fo that when 'i\ m mounted upon hishorfe, the reins br .ke, and the"horfe runaway with hhn in the mi dll of s great heathwhereon fto. da large gall ws again It whichthe horfe ft'-od, and rubb.d his neck, lhthat the gentleman hoop’d and hallow’d,*nd faid, harewel Tom, farewel; but Tomalighted from his horfe, and nude fatt hisreins, and with ins (word cut three or lourchips from off the gallows; and at the nexttavern I om met with them, where the/jeer d him not a littie; but Tom very ear-neitly entre4ted them t- f rbear; yet themore he entreated them, the more they( 10 )•play’d upon him: But to be even with theiV,in the morning Tom calls the hoftler, andleads him for nutmegs and gingw, and getsa grater; and when he had granted them hea'fo grated the chips off the gallows, andmix’d with the fpice only a little nutmegand ginger he laid towards one end of thetrer.cffer f-r himfelf, and with a gallon cfale into the gentleman’s chamber he goes,begging of them not to mock him any morewith the gallows; and he would giv* themthat ale and fpice; and lb, fays he, gentle¬men, I drink to you all. .Now as loon ashe had drank, the holtler call’d him, as he£ave him charge before fo to do,down (lairsruns Tom, as faff as he could: the gentle¬men made all ooffible fpeed to drink up theale and fpice before he came up again, andthat was what Tom deficed. Wnen hecame again, feeing all the ale and fpicegone, he fays, Gentlemen, will you knowwhy my h >rfe carried me to the gallows?Yes, fays one of them, Well, fays Tom,it was to fetch you feme fpice' to your ale,and if you want I have more for you; and'with that Ihewed them the chips out of hispocket, and away he runs, leaving thegentlemen to look one up n another, Undy¬ing How ihey Ih -uld be revenged on him.( II)CHAP. vr.Haw Torn rodt a-GoJfipping'.rT"'OM heard a company of women that-*■ would meet at the place a hcmfe-warming, to welcome one of the houfe.Thefe women had formerly abufed Tom,and now he thought to be even with them,fo he goes to an apothecary’s Ihop, buysa pound of purging comfits, and puts themin a cake with other fpices, and dreiTeshimfelf in women’s apparel, 'and gets ahone and a pannel, and to the houfe hetomes, knocks at the door, and aiked theijmatd, whether there were any women, camea houfe-warning? The m;«d faid, Not yet:I pray fays Tom, take this cake, and ifI c- me not at the meeting, let them eat itand be merry; for I mult go to a womanIthat is ready to lie down, and away he goes.The women came, and wondered what wo¬man it fit utd be that left that cake; f-meof them fupnefed sltauitwas f-sme midwife:They (laid a while, and the perfon theyexpected to be with them not coming, theyfell to their meat, and at lafl to the cake.Bat it wss not long in their bellies biforen began to work, fo that one muO. go to4lool, another to Vomiting, and all of themwere lo fick, that the iniell of them per-fumed the heufe, and the breath of them |was fo ftrong that hone could endure it: |In which time Tom fliifts himfelf into!man’s apparel, and with a (lafFia his hand),cams where his gnffips were, and hearing |them groaning all the houfe over, opened ilthe dor>r and alked them what was the mat¬ter ? They anfwered they were all pdfon-ed. Marry, quoth Tom, I hope n't, ifybu pleafe to let me have a horfe, I willride to Mr. D?clor’s and fetch an antidoteto expel the pufon. Take my hori'e, quothone; take my horfe, faid another; or mine,faid a third. Well, well, faid Tom, I willtake one. And into the liable he goes,and takes three horfes, and to the dcdtor’sfie rides, and told him, that all the peopleof fuch a houfe had eaten fomethiog thathindered them from going to tlool; andprayed him that he would without delay,carry them fome Glyfters, and that theyhad fent a horfe for him, and another forhis man. The doftor, greedy of money,hailed thither with his glytler-pipes as faitas the horfes could carry him and his man;but the doctor no former came into the houfe,but hefraeird there was no need ofglykers.In the mean time 1 orn told not only ail hemet with, that there were fuch women metto be merry at fuch a place; and not onlythey, but ail the women of the houfe werepoifoned, but went like wife to their hul-. ( IJ )bands, and told them the like; f-j that all| the people there abouts repaired thither;which made the women fo aiiiamed, thatthey knew not which way to lock, becaufeall that faw them judged they were drunk;fo that inftead of comforting them, whichthey.expected, they fell a reviling them;the women alf> fell to fc Iding among them-ij! 1’elves, and would have fought, had not theirhufbinds parted them, by cairying themhome. ,XXXXKXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXKKXXXXI CHAP. VII.How Tom forved a company of Cypfies.TT happened on a day, towards night thatthere cane a company of Gy plies intoa town, and had not very long been theretill Tam met them, and alked them, Whatthey made there; They 1’aid, they came totown to tell the people their fortunes, thatthereby they might ur.derlland enfuingdan¬gers. Aye, lays Tom, and where d * youlie to-nignr? They told hyu they c uld nottell. N>y, laid Torn, if you v/ill be c n-tented to lie in Uraw, 1 will bring you wherey- u may lie dry and warm. 'The) thankedhim, and told him they would icil him hisfortune in the m. rning for nothing. T mtbankea them, and therefore conveys them■ \( H )into a little thatch’d houle which had a ditchrcmnd ab^ut it, very clofe to the wall there¬of; that h->ufe T >m help’d them to fill withdraw, and fee them take their lodging; andthen, it being dark, Tom bads them gr>od-night; and as foon as he was over the bridge,which was a plank, he drew it after him;and in the dead time of the night, Tom getsa long pole, with a wafp of draw at the endof it, and fets the draw on fire, colling outto the red of the fellows to fhift for them-felves; who thinking to run over the bridge,fell into the ditch, crying and calling outfor help, while, by Toni’s means, mod partof the town ftood to fee the jeft; and as thegypfies waded through the ditch,, they tookthem and carried them into an houfe, wherethere was a good fire, f^r it was in the midftof winter; where Tom c unfels them,' thatthey fhould never make him believe thatthey could tell him any thing, that did notknow what danger ihould befal themfelves:Bat, fays he, becaufe you cannot tell memy fortune, l will tell you yours; For to¬morrow in the forenoon you dull be whip¬ped for deceivers, and in the afternoon behinged for fetting the houfe on fire. Thegypfies hearing tins foftrick fontence, madehade to dry themfelves, and next morningdole eut of town, and never cams anyraore there.CHAP. VIIL: Ho w Tom fold bis mother's Trevots and coz¬ened anAcq%aviU Man thatfold bat -water,T N a winter night, coming home very lateTom Tram fell with his arms beforehim, and at the lail run his noi’e againll ap-h; what, quoth Tom, is my note Wgerthan my arms ? And afterwards he dropped|: into a well that was in the yard, and cry-1 Ing out, help, help, all is not well that isi in the well, the neighbours, came and pul-1 ed him out, and he dropp’d like a pig thathad been roalted on a fpit; but he was thenin a cold condition, fo he went to bed, andcovered himfelf; but before morning, hav¬ing a loofenefs in his belly, Tom had be-fhit the fheets; and when fome, by thequick fcent of their tofes, had di'b'veredthe fault, he told them, it was nothing butthe clear mud of the well that came awayfrom him; and if he died of that ficknefs,he Would be buried by torch-light, becaufenone Ihould lee him go to his grave. Juit*s he had laid, in came a hot water man,o! wlv m he requefled to give him a fup;which having tailed, he feigned himfelf to/b« in a hot fever, and r fe up in his clothes,"an away with the sqavitse man’s bottleiji- hot water, %nd took nis motl^r’s trevot,( IS )and fold it for a long hawking p le, anda falconer’s ba£? which being tied to hisfide, end havin ; drank up the poor man’shi t water, he ctme reeling home with anowl upon his fill, faying, It is gentleman-like'to be betwixt hawk and buzz »rd? andand he told the aquavitas man, that he hadfent the trevot with three fags, to the nexttown to fill you bottles again.* * *****_*_***-^ * * * * * * * * * * * *CHAP. IX.Qf Tiffi Tram's wooing Cicily Summets, tbsneat Wench of the weft.CICILY Summers, whofe nofe was thenas fair as the midnight fun, whichfilmed as bright as Baconthine, was belov¬ed of young 1'om Tram; and a l^d itoryto tell, he grew net worth the bread he eat,through pining away for her fi ve: lornwas loth to fpeak but Hill wh'filed ; At fail,when Cicily made no anfwer, he buril outin thus: O Gicdy Summers, it IToniTram,f n c f ni ither Winter, and thou CicilySummers, be j ined together what a quar-terfhall we keep, as big as three halt vears,betides Cicily Summers when thou fa; Id-eft, then Winter ihall prefently c-ol thybeat; and when we walk on the treetthey'll fay,yonder g‘es Summer and Win-{ )' ter, and for children, we fl ail beget ev^ryrear.a generation f Almanacks. So theywent, t the parfon and were married; but; they fell out fo exttemely, that fhe fold¬ed all the fummer feafon; and Turn hecr '-k g . d ale, nd told old t !es all thevr er time, and f they could never butthrived all the year through. Tom livedby g od i.le. And his wife by eating oat¬meal ; and \vh- n Tom v ent to be drunk inthe morning, fhe put oatmeal in the ale»and made caudle with midland inftesd ofeg?s-, v-hich bit T m i'o by the roie, thatit vr :.Id run water; but the next day hewould be drunk again.» + *4 *+*+*4. *4.*+*C II A P. X.Ilex Tom ufed ,1 ft wiping man of a CathedralChurch in the Weft.^ X NCE there wms a cathedral fmgingm.nn that had verv much anger'dx m, and had made f ngs and j .fts uptmhim; whereupn Tom got upon his hack anox-hide, with the horns fet upon his head,and ! lay in a hedge bottom, waiting tillthe finging man came by, who he was lureJfiuh p*fs that way: at lalt came the fing-inrr m-in, upflarted Tom out < f the.hedgebottom in his ox-hide, and fallowed him:r is )the finging man cried out, the devil! thedevil! No, quoth Tom, I am the ghoft ofgocdman Johnfon, living hard by the churchihle, unto whole houfe ye came and flingcatches, and owes me Five Pounds for ale,theref re appoint me a day when ye willbring me my money hither, or elfe I willhaunt thee {till. The fmging man promifedthat day fe’enight, and accordingly he did;and Tom made himi'elf brave clothes withthe money, and fweethearts came abouthim ss bees do about a honey pot; but Tomwore a r pe in his pocket and being afkedif lie would marry, he would pull it out,and laugh, faying I have broken my fhinsalready, and will be wifer hereafter; forI am an old Colt. »>nd now may iiave asmuch wit as a horle.'jri ‘j?i Urt o6ri -^rt 'jn «ir>CHAP. XI.US to be hired b'nnfelf to the justice,and whetpranks b* played while with him.nPHEj idice at this time being without-* a man., and finding Tom to be a liv¬ely fellow, aficing him, if he would fervehim. Yes, qmth Tom, for I am a greatrimy,miles front the country. As loon asthey had agreed for wages. Tom was im¬mediately entertained: J3 at he hid not liv'd( 19 )I !r,r.g there before the juAice and his familyJ was obliged to go to L ndon, leaving no-Dody at h. me but T m. Now in the jus-I dee’s abfence, an (fficer brought a U-iftyjtoung woman and a little man with a com¬plaint; fo they knocked at the door, :md’Tom let them in, then placing himfelt inhis maker’s chair, he alked the womanwhat (lie had to fay, who udd him that thei man wm m (he had brought bef-re him hadi lain with her by f.rce. Aczotk>. quothTom, is it p. ffible that (rich a little-feilowas this could force inch a (trapping dameas you, Alas! Sir, (aid (he, ?.kht ugh heis little he is ftreng. Well, little whipper-fnapper, quoth Tom, what d : y u fay tothis-; He reply’d, L:ke your w rfhin it isfal'e v/hat :he fays; the truth is: I ravebeen at fea, and coming afe re, where i re¬ceived my pay, I met with this woman,and agreed with her for half a cr< wn, andwhen it was over, I pull’d out my purfeto pav her honeAly what I had agreed f.r;but (lie feeing that I had a confiderable Cumcf money, contrary to our bargain, would^ force me to give her ten (hillings, and be-cauie I would not, (he has brought mebefore your workup. Have you got thatpurfe of money ? quth Tom: Yes Sir faidthe feaman. Give it into my hand faid1 'in. He receives it, and turning to the.w nian, faid, Here take it and get ab^ut( 20 )your bufiaefs. She replied, I thank yourworfiiip, you are an hmiell gocd man, andhave done me juftice. The little fenmanthe mean while wrong his hands and bit¬terly cried out, I am ruined, for it is everypenny I had in the world. Well, quothTom, halle after her, and take it from heragain. According to Tom’s order he runsafter her, and when he came alter her, hef;dd, I mult, and will have my purle again:’Then fne fell about his ears and cuft him:nay, th s did not fa.tisfy her, but P.ie drag¬ged him back again t» Tim, who iat usjuftice, and told him, thst the fellow fol¬lowed her f r the puffe, which he in jufticagave her. Well, faid Tom, and has heg t it? No, faid Ihe, I th'mk not, before hefliould take it from me, I’d tear out b thIds eyes. I.,at melee it again, fays lorn:She gives it to him. Is all the moneyit? quoth be.. Yes, Sir, laid fhe, everypennv. Why then faid he, here little whip-per fmtpner, take y«ur purfe again; and asfjr y u, I\Irs Impudence, hsd you delend-edvour h' neftyas well as you diqthe money,I never bad been troubled wtth this Corn-plaint. Here, Mr. Csnfiabie, give her anhundred la {lies at the town swhipping-p -ft -vi'hich was accordingly done, ana ioni v. %„applauded f r his jaft pnceecibg-'*( 21 )S 2 V E R A T.M E R R Y TALE 3.TALE I.Of a Scholar and a tapfier on a winter night,*T1^ anfter Lid, Sir, will you go to bid.No,quoth the icholar, there are thievessbrcsd, aud would not wiilhiglv be takennapping, go the tapfier left him, and be¬ing gone, in. came a i'pirit into the chamber,with his head under his arm to that he durflnot flir, but cried out Help! help! fire!thieves! hieves! Oh, quoth he, the devilwas here, and fpoke to me with his headunder his arm; but now I will gj to bed,and if he Comes again, I will fend him tothe tapfter, to help him to make falfe rec¬konings: It being a c Id night, quoth he,I will firfl put fire t toe, that is, I willwarm mv toes by the fire, then I’ll go tobed. And fi> he did, and a great reckon-ing put the fcholar out of his jeft faying,that was in earneft made t-u large a rec-kemng, he being butpsor Sir Johnof Oxford.( 2- )T A L E If.NE that was-going to a wedding hada great cccafion to untrufs s point;whereuaon he went under a hedge, but theplace not pleafinghim,he went underahar-ilack and then into a law-pit, and after¬wards into a hog llye, where he did hisbufinefs. Now the other clowns that werewith him, aiked him if he had done his tafkand day’s labour: Yes, qooth he, I haveihit three {hillings in uine-pences, go andfetch them they are more than a day’s la¬bour will came to. So they went to thewedding honfe, and when they came thiter,they were making a reckoning for the fid-ler, and every rre gave what he lifted. Oh,quoth one of them, if you want money tomake up the reckoning, here is one thatcan flute three Ihillings in n'me-pences.It he can, q3oth the guett, let him bringthem hither in his mouth, for I fear theyare of fa foft a metal, that they will meltin fpite of his teeth, So after they haddanced a while, a fart was let; whereuponfays one, this fart was full charged, for ityeilded a large rent; meaning his Ihirt.TALE III.DOWN in the weft country a certainconceited fellow had a grent nofe; ft*s ceuntry-man by him with a lack of corn,( 23 )joTiled hitn, frying, your nofe Rands in myway ; whejeup n the other fellow with thegreat n fa, took his nofe in his hand, andheld it to the other fide, faying, A pox onthee, go and be hanged.TALE IV.ONCE there was a company of gypfiesthat came to a country-fellov ’ a high¬way, and would needs tell him his frtune:amongft other things, they bad him allurehimfslfhis worft misfortunes were paft,andthat he would not be troubled with cr. ITesas he had been: fo coming home, and hav¬ing Lid the cow at the market, he look’din his purfe for the money, thinking to havetold it to his wife; but he found not famuch as one crofs in his purfe; whereuponhe remembered the words of the gypfies andfaid, that the gypfies had faid true that heihould not be troubled with crolTes,and thatthey had picked his pocket, and left not apenny in his purfe. Whereupon his wifebaRed and cudgelled him fo h undly, thathe began to perceive that a man that had acurfed wife Ihould never be without a crolstho’ he Lad never a penny in his. purfe; andbecaufe it was winter-time, he fat a whileby the fire-fide, and after went to bed fup-perlefs and pennylefs.( 24 )TALE V.A Farmer’s wife in the weft had threepigsj which iFe loved exceedingly well, andfed them with good butter-milk and whey;but they would come running into the houfeand befoul the rooms: whereup n Ihe re-f dved to fell them at the market, becaufethey were better fed than taught, but after,wards they were Uolen away from her;whereupon fhe fupp''fed they were driven,up to London to learn manners; but faidfhe, they were too old to learn to turn thefpit in B vtholoniew fair, and thereforebelieved Lme butchers had Hole them away.Her cock had apiece of cloth fewen abouthim. and wras left upon the porch, but after- .wards ttolen; whereupon fhe faid, that her icoc1' was turned fcholar in a black gown;,and fo llte went to Oxford to a c nj irer, toknow what v/as become of her pigs and hercick. fhe fcholar fmil’d, and told her,the thres pigs were blown home, and thecnck was made a batchelor of arts in one^of the colleges. I thought fo, Hid the wo¬man, for fure batchelors of arts are verycoxcombs:FINIS.Falkirk-printed by T• 'Johnston*1817.