CURIOUSC a f e 11) t s mFOUND IN AN ODD CORNER,(HYING A DETAIL OF THB CAOAE OF THEPresent Distresses,AND THEIR PROBABLE REMEDIES.ALSO,A COPY OF A PETITIONFROMThe Grave-Diggers,AGAINSTTEMPERANCE SOCIETIES.PAWLEY :PRINT-BO BY a. CALDWPLL.A Curious Catechism.MANY excellent things have been lately publishedconcerning the present scarcity of provisions; andmany causes have been assigned for it. But is notsomething wanting in most of those publications ? Onewriter assigns one cause; anotlwtr one or two more,and strongly insists upon them ; but who has assignedall the causes that manifestly concur to produce thismelancholy effect, at the same time pointing out howeach particular cause affects the price of each particu*far sort of provision ?I would willingly offer, to candid and benevolentt»en, a few hints on this important subject; proposinga few questions, and adding to each w.hat seems to beplain and direct answers.I. J ask, first, Why are thousands of people starv¬ing, perishing for want, in every part of the unitedkingdom ? The fact I know : I have seen it with myeyes, in every corner of the land. I have known thosewho could only afford to eat a little coarse food everyother day. I have known one picking up stinkingsprats from a dunghill, and carrying them ho^ie forli^rself and her children. I have known another ga¬thering the bones which the dogs had left in the streetsand making broth of them to prolong a wretchedJife !Sach is the case at this day, of multitudes of people,in a land flowing with milk and honey ! aboundingwith all tb^ necessaries, the canveniences, the super,fluities oflifelNow why is this ? Why have all these nothing toseat ? Because they have nothing to do. They have nomeat, because they have no work.2. But why have they no work ? Why areso many 'thousand people in Scotland, England, and Ireland,• jn every county from one end of the kingdom to theother, utterly' destitute of employment.Because the persons who used to employ them can¬not afford to do it any longer. Many who employedfifty men, now scarce employ ten , those who employ¬ed twenty, now employ or.*e or none at all. They can¬not, as they have no vent for their goods; food nowbearing so high a price, that the generality of peopleare hardly able to buy any thing else.3. But, to descend from genera's to particulars, whyis bread-c*n so dear?Because such immense quantities of it are,continu¬ally consumed by distilling. Indeed an eminent dis¬tiller near London, hearing this, w-rmly replied, “ Namy partner and I generally distil but a thousand quar¬ters of corn a-week.” Perhaps so r suppose five am:twenty distillers, in and near the town, consume eachonly the same quantity : here are five and twenty thou¬sand quarters a-year, consumed in and about London !Add the distiller! .s throughout England ; and have wenot reason to believe, that half of the wheat producedin the kingdom, is every year consumed, not by soharmless a way as throwing it into the sea, but by con¬verting it into deadly poison: poison that naturafivdestroys, not only the strength, health, and life, hutalso tlie morals of our countrvmen !“ Well, but this brings ha a very large revenue tothe King.” Is tins an equivalent for the lives of hissubjects? Would his Majesty sell an hundred thou¬sand ot his subjects yearly to Algiers. |br ten bundrtvithousand pounds ? Surely no. Will he then sell themfoe that sum, to be butch :red by their own country.A Curious C atechism..irr.MANY excellent things have been lately publishedconcerning the present scarcity of provisions; andmany causes have been assigned for it. But is notsomething wanting in most of tiiose publications ? Onewriter assigns one cause; anotlwir one or two more,and strongly insists upon them ; but who has assignedall the causes that manifestly concur to produce thismelancholy effect, at the same time pointing out how-each particular cause affects the price of each particu¬lar sort of provision ?I would willingly offer, to candid and benevolentriven, a few hints on this important subject; proposinga few questions, and adding to each what seems to beplain and direct answers.J. J ask, first, Why are thousands of people starv¬ing, perishing for want, in every part of the unitedkingdom ? The fact 1 know : 1 have seen it with myeyes, in every corner of the land. I have known thosewho could only afford to eat a little coarse food everyother day. I have known one picking up stinkingsprats from a dunghill, and carrying them hoipe forli^rself and her children. I have known another ga¬thering the bones which the dogs had left in the streetsand making broth of them to prolong a wretchedjife ! _Soch is the case at this day, of multitudes of people,in a land flowing with milk and honey! aboundingwith all tb^ necessaries, the canveniences, the super,fluitiec of life!Now why is this ?Why have ail these nothing toeat ? Because they have nothing to do. They have nomeat, because they have no work.2. But why have they no work ? Why are so manythousand people in Scotland, England, and Ireland,t. • jn every county from one end of the kingdom to theother, utterly destitute of employment.Because the persons who used to employ them can¬not afford to do it any longer. Many who employedfifty men, now scarce employ ten , those who employ¬ed twenty, now employ or.-e or none tft all. They cun-not, as they have no vent for fh ir goods ; food nowbearing so high a price, that the generality of peopleare hardly able to buy any thing else.3. But, to descend from genera's to particulars, whyis bread-ettfn so dear?Because such immense quantities of it are continu¬ally consumed by distilling. Ind ed an eminent dis¬tiller near London, hearing this, w rmly replied, “ Na¬nay partner and I generally distil but a thousand quar¬ters of corn a-week.” Perhaps so r suppose five ami, twenty distillers, in and near the town, consume eachonly the same quantity : here are five and twenty thou¬sand quarters a-year, consumed in and about London ■Add the distillerhs throughout England ; and have wenot reason to believe, that half of the wheat producedin the kingdom, is every year consumed, not by soharmless a way as throwing it into the sea, but by con¬verting it into deadly poison : poison that naturallydestroys, not only the strength, health, and life, butalso the morals of our countrymen !“ Well, but this brings in a very large revenue tothe King.” Is this an equivalent for the lives of hissubjects? Would his Majesty sell an hundred-thou¬sand of his subjects yearly to Algiers. |br ten hundredthousand pounds? Surely no. Will he then sell themfor that sum, to be butchered by their own country.Im-en ? “ But otherwise the swine for the navy cannotbe fed.” Not unless they are fed with human flesh !Not unless they are fatted with human blood ! O tellit not in Constantinople! that the British raise the roy¬al revenue by selling the flesh and blood of their coun*'trymen.Surely this is evidence sufEcient for the establish¬ment of Temperance Societies, which at present pro¬mise to do so much good.4-. But why are oats so dear ?Because there are four times the horses kept (tospeak within compass) for coaches and chaises in par¬ticular, that were some years ago. Unless thereforefour times the oata grow now which grew then, theycannot be at the same price. If only twice as muchis now produced (which perhaps is near the truth) theprice will naturally be double to what it was.To the ruinwua Com Bill may be attributed our pre¬sent dearth ef provisions, and what is still worse, thatwant of interchange of property which might go on, asother countries will not receive our produce becausewe will not accept of theirs.As the dearness of grain of one kind will naturallyraise the price of another, so whatever cause* thedearness of wheat and oats, must raise the price ofbarley teo. To account therefore for the deerness ofthjs, we aeed only remember what lias been observedabove ; although some particular causes may concuriu producing the same effect..5. Why are mutton and beef so dear ?Because asost of the considerable farmers, particu¬larly in the northern counties, who used'to breed largenumbers ofaheep or iiorned cattle, and frequentlyboth, no longer trouble themselves with either sheep,or cows, or oxen, as they caa turn their land to farbetter acceunt by breeding horses alone. Such is (Be> 'X"iiijmaatl, not only for coach and chaiss horses, whichre bought and destroyed in incredible numbers ; butmuch more for bred horses, which are ) early export-11 by hundreds, yea thousands, to France.H 6. But why are pork, poultry, and eggs so dear ?3 Because of the monopolizing of farms, as mischiev-aas a monopoly as was errr yet introduced into thesepingdoms. The land which was formerly divided a-JOong ten or\ twenty little farmers, and enabled themnonafortably to provide for their families, is now gene-llilly ingrossed by one great farmer. One man farms' n estate of a thousand a-year, which formerly main¬lined ten or twenty. Every one of those little farm-!rs kept a few swine, with some quantity of poultry ;bnd having little money, was glad to send his bacon,[ r pork, or fowls and eggs, to market continually,lence the markets were plentifully served ; and plen-i y created cheapness. But at present, the great, thenentlemen farmers, are above attending to those little[tings. They breed no poultry or swine, unless foricir own use: consequently thay send none to mar-et. Hence it is not strange, if two or three of thesering near a market-town, occasion such a scarcity ofsfiese things, by preventing the former supply, thatshe price of them will be double or treble to what it,oas before. Hance (to instance in a small article) iahe same town, where, within my memory, eggs wereold eight or tea a penny, they are new sold fromji^ht pence to a shilling a dosen.Aaother cause why both beef, mutton, pork, and111 kinds of victuals, are so dear, is luxury. Whati:an stand again** this ? Will it not waste and destroylill that nature and art can produce ? If a person ofquality will boil down three dozen of neats tongues,'O make two or three quarts cf soup, an 1 so propor-lionably in other things, what wonder if provisions6fail ? Only look into the kitchens of the great, the no-ibility and gentry almost without exception, (considering-withal that “ the toe of the peasant treads on tinheel of the courtier,’’) and when you have observe*the amazing waste which is made there, you will nrlonger wonder at the scarcity, and consequently deanness of the things which they use so much art to de;stroy.7. But why is land so dear ?Because on all these accounts, gentlemen canno ;■live as they have been accustomed to do, without increasing their income : which most of them cannot dbut by raising their rents And the farmer paying* ihigher rent for his land, must have a higher price fethe produce of it. Tiiis again tends to raise the pric rof land i and so the wheel goes round.8. But why is it, thurt not only provisions and lancijihu' well nigh every thing else is so dear ?Because of the enormous taxes which are laid &almost every thing that can be named. Not only i jbundant taxes are raised, from earth, fire, and wate [but in England the ingenious statesmen have found 15way to tax the very light! Only one element remains jiand surely some man of honour will ere long contri\ 7to tax this “l®0; f°r ‘'low J’one wdl the saucy air bib •in the face o! a gentleman, nay ajord, without pay in,for it? »9. But why are the taxes so hi rh ?Because of the national debt. Thoy must be whi^this bontinues. I have heard that the national epence, in time of peace, was. about a hundred yea^ago, three millions a-year. Now, the bare interest t.the public debt amounts to about thirty millions ! 1raise which, with the other expences of governraerlthose taxes are absolutely necessary.Here is Jteevil, but where is the remedy ? Perha iaixcee<k all tha vrisdonu of man to tell. But it masyid. be amiss to offer a few hints on this delicate sub-,t..1. What remedy is there for this sore evil ? Many41-usand people are starving !tiFind them work, and you will find them meat. Theyi i then earn and eat their own bread..2 But how shall their masters give them work»:thout ruining themselves ?ilProcure vent ft>r it, and it will not hurt tlfeir mas-Is to give them as much work as they can do. Ands v.ill be done by sinking the provisions : tor thenople will have money to buy ether things too.3. But how can the price of wheat be reduced ?By prohibiting, for ever, that bane of health, thatitroyer of strength, of life, and of virtue, distilling,rhaps this alone will answer the whole design. Ify thing mor» t-e needful, may not all starch betide of rice ? and the importation of this, as well asi leat, be encouraged ?r 4. How can the price of oats be reduced ?: By reducing the number of horses. And may notis be effectually done, 1. By laying a tax of tenmnie on every horse exported to France; 2- Byying an additional tax oa gentlemens carriages ; not■ much for every wheel, (barefaced shameless pacti-ity,) but ten pounds yearly for every horse ? Andiese two taxes alone would nearly supply as touch asno*v given for leave to poison his Majesty's liegeibjects.5. How can the price of *beef and mutton be redu-jd? -By increasing the breed of sheep and horned cattleaid this would be increased sevenfold, if the price oforses was reduced ; which it surely would be half inalf, by the method above mentioned.6. How can the price of pork and poultry be raduced ? *First, By letting no farms of above an hundredpounds a-year.Secondly, By repressing luxury, either by example!by laws, or both.7. How may the price of land be reduced.By all the methods above named, all which tend tlessen the expence of house-keeping; but especial!the last, restraining luxury, which is the grand sourc.of poverty.8. How may the taxes be reduced ?By discharging half the national debt, and go savin*at least fifteen millions a-year.How this can be done, the wisdom of the greicouncil of the land can best determine.INTELLIGENCE EXTRAORDINARY.•IT is reported the whole bedy of Sextons, or Grat)Diggers, throughout the kingdom are preparing a p|tition to Parliament, praying that Temperance Soci|ties may be put down, as any restriction laid upen tHdistilling of Spirits would be the utter ruin of theand their families ! three parts in four of those thJcome to their warehouses, being obliged to the diitillery for their passports thither; not to mention, thlthe more they bury, the fewer there will remain ieat; and of course, Out the free toleration and licen*of making, vending, and distributing strong liquc|in every part of Great Britain, is the only reme*|that can possibly render provisions cheap.