NEW AND IMPROVED SERIES,No. 88.EVAN’SSKETCH OF AIL RELIGIONSABRIDGED,EXHIBITING A CONCISE VIEW OF THEDIFFERENT SECTS AND DENOMINATIONS INTOWHICH THE CHRISTIAN WORLD IS DIVIDED.The great lesson which every sect, and every individual of every sect,oughtto learn from the history of the Church, is Moderation. Want of genuinemoderation towards those who differ from us in religious opinions seems to bothe most unaccountable thing in the world.—Watson, Bishop of Landoff.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1851.?ric© One Penny.CONTENTS.8A0I[XUAtheism,  3Deism,  3Paganism,  4Judaism,  , 4Mahometanism,  5Christianity,  GTrinitarians, Athanasiaus, Sa-bellians,  GArians,  7Socinians or Unitarians,  7Calvinists,    8Arminians,  8Baxterians,  9Antinomians,    9Papists, 10Greek Church, 11Protestants, ....11Lutherans, 11Hugonots, 12Episcopalians,   13Dissenters, 13Kirk of Scotland, 14Reformed Synod, 14Seceders, 14Relief Synod, 15English Presbyterians, 15Independents, 1GBaptists, 1GScottish Independents, 16Friends or Quakers,   17Methodists, 18New Methodists, 19Jumpers, 191Universalists, 19Destructionists, 20Sabbatarians, 20Mystics, 20Milleuarians 21Swedenborgiaus, 21Traotarians, 22Irvingites,.. 23|Latter-day Saints, 23(!Hutchinsonians, 2400.: ; v.■ n '-c '*EVAN’SSKETCH OF ALL RELIGIONS.i Tub Christian rrorld is divided into denominations, each ofvliich is discriminated by sentiments peculiar to itself. Tolelineate the nature, point out the foundation, and appreciatehe tendency of every individual opinion, would be an endlessnsk. My only design is briefly to enumerate the leadingtenets of the several parties which attract our notice, and tonake this variety of religious opinions a ground for thetxercise of moderation, together with the improvement oftther Christian graces. The moderation here recommended,lies at an equal distance between an indifference to truth andthe merciless spirit of uncharitableness. It is a virtue muchtalked of, little understood, and less practised.But before we delineate the tenets of the several parties,we shall just notice the Atheist and Deist, two descriptionsof persons frequently confounded together, and also give ageneral outline of Paganism, Judaism, Mahometanism, andChristianity. These topics will form a proper introductionto an account of the sects and denominations of the religiousworld.ATHEISM.The Atheists do not believe in the existence of a God.They attribute surrounding nature and all its astonishingproductions to chance, or a fortuitofls concourse of atoms,and entirely renounce the opinion of a creating and superin¬tending Providence.DEISM.The Deists believe in a God, but reject a written revelationfi-om him. Their ideas of natural religion are extravagant,and differ much respecting its nature, extent, and obligation.There are four classes of Deists. The first are such nsbelieve that God created the world, but that he has no cou-4cern in the government thereof. The second are those who*believe in the being and providence of God, but deny that hetakes any notice of the good or evil actions of men. Thethird class are those who believe that men perish entirely atdeath, and that one generation shall perpetually succeed'another, without any further restoration or renovation ofthings. The fourth class of Deists are those who believe inthe existence and providence of a supreme Being, and theobligations of natural religion, but so far only as these arediscoverable by the light of nature alone, without the inter¬vention of any divine revelation.PAGANISM.Under the term Pagan, are comprehended those nationswho worship stocks or stones, idols or false gods; in otherwords, the whole heathen world.The most cursory view of Paganism presents its strikingfeatures as essentially the same. Human sacrifices are thefirst and the most distinguishing of the horrible atrocities ofthe Pagans. The slavery and degradation of the female sexis another common feature, discoverable in all the domesticoccupations and restrictions of heathen life, but chiefly in thedreadful sacrifice of wives upon the death of their husbands. ■Infanticide naturally follows. Another revolting trait is themurder of the aged, when unable to support themselves.But the most inhuman feature of the Pagan is displayedin Cannibalism. This repulsive custom exists still upon thecontinent of Africa, in New Zealand, New Caledonia, and :many of the South Sea Islands.The regions where Paganism prevails are especially thedark places of the earth, the habitations of horrid cruelty;and it must be to Christians a lamentable truth, that of thewhole population of the world, at least one-half is living inignorance of the true God, degraded and debased by the ab¬surdity, idolatry, and immorality of heathenism.JUDAISM.Judaism is the religious doctrines and rites of the Jews,the descendants of Abraham, a person of eminence, chosen byGod soon after the flood to preserve the doctrine of thedivine unity among the idolatrous nations of the earth. Acomplete system of Judaism is contained in the five books ofMoses, their great lawgiver, who was raised up to deliverthem from their bondage iu Egypt, and to conduct them tothe possession of Canaan, the promised land.The expectation of a Messiah is the distinguishing feature of Itheir religious system, Christians believe that Jesus Christis the Messiah, in whom all the Jewish prophecies are accom¬plished; but the Jews, infatuated with the idea of a temporalMessiah, who is to subdue the world, still wait for his appear¬ance.The Talmud is a collection of the doctrines and morality ofthe Jews. Their confession of faith consists of thirteenarticles, and distinctly affirms the authenticity and genuine¬ness of the books of Moses.From the time of the destruction of the city and templeof Jerusalem by the Roman emperor Titus, a.d. 70, the Jewshave been without a common country—without a temple—without a sacrifice—without a prophet—and, as was pre¬dicted respecting them, have ever been “ an astonishment, aproverb, and a by-word,” among all the nations whither theLord hath scattered them.MAHOMETANISM.Mahomet, the famous impostor and founder of this religion,was born in the year 570, at Mecca, a city of Arabia. Losinghis father in his infancy, he was employed by his uncle to gowith his caravans from Mecca to Damascus. In this occupa¬tion he continued till he was twenty-eight years of age, when,by marrying Khadijah, a rich widow, he became one of thewealthiest men in Ms native city.A disposition to religious contemplation seems to haveattended him from his early youth ; and having remarked inhis travels the great variety of sects which prevailed, heformed the design of forming a new one. He accordinglyspent much of his time in a cave near Mecca, employed inmeditation and prayer. With the assistance of two Chris¬tians and a Persian Jew, he framed the celebrated Koran orAlkoran, a book which he pretended to have received fromheaven, by the hands of the angel Gabriel.At the age of forty, he publicly assumed the propheticalcharacter, calling himself the apostle of God. At first hebad only nine followers, including his wife; but in threeyears the number was considerably increased.A conspiracy having been formed against him in Mecca, heretreated to Medina. It is from this event, called the Hegira,or flight, that the Mussulmans compute their time; it corres¬ponds with the 6th of June, 622.Prom this period his affairs went on prosperously. Havingdeclared his resolution to propagate the new faith by thesword, he added the hopes of booty to tbe religious zeal ofhis partisans ; and having made himself master of Arabia, he6extended his conquest into Syria. While engaged in thisvictorious career, a Jewess poisoned some food which wasset before him, and of which he partook heartily. He diedat Medina, in the sixty-third year of his age, of a fever,though he ascribed his death to the effects of the poison.The religious system of Mahomet is a compound of Pa¬ganism, Judaism, and Christianity. The fundamental doc¬trine of the Koran is, “ There is but one God, and Mahometis his prophetbut the impostor suited his subsidiary doc¬trines to the grosser propensities of our nature, and allureddisciples by the promise of unbounded sensual gratification,not only in the present, but in the future state. The Koranis obviously founded on the Scriptures, but is blended withextravagant and blasphemous tales and dogmas.After the death of Mahomet, his successors used every artof seduction, fraud, and violence, to diffuse his religion, sothat in less than a century, it displayed its victorious bannersover all Arabia, Syria, Asia Minor, Persia, Egypt, and thecoasts of Africa, and is now zealously believed from theGanges to the Atlantic, by fully a hundred and twentymillions of people.CHRISTIA NIT V.Christianity', (to which Judaism was introductory,) is thelast and more perfect dispensation of revealed religion. Itwas instituted by Jesus Christ, the Son of God, whoappeared in Judasa nearly two thousand years ago. He wasborn at Bethlehem, brought up at Nazareth, and crucified atJerusalem. His lineage, birth, life, death, and sufferings,were minutely predicted by the Jewish prophets, and hisreligion is now spread over a considerable portion of theglobe. The evidences of the Christian religion are comprisedunder historical testimony, prophecies, miracles, the internalevidence of its doctrines and precepts, and the rapidity of itsfirst propagation among the Jews and the Gentiles. Thoughthinking men have in every age differed widely respectingsome of the doctrines of this religion, yet they are fullyagreed in the divinity of its origin, and in the benevolence ofits tendency.TRINITARIANS, ATHANASIANS, 8AREI/LIANS.The Trinitarian believes the doctrine of a Trinity, by whichis generally understood, that there arc three distinct personsin one undivided Godhead—the Father, the Son, and theHoly Ghost. Trinitarians may be divided two classes:—thosewho believe there is no proper divinity in Christ, beside thatof the Father; and the Tritheists, who maintain that thereare three equal and distinct Gods.Nearly allied to the latter class are the Athanasians, aname derived from Athanasius, a father of the ChristianChurch, who lived in the fourth century.The Sabellian reduces the three persons in the Trinity tothree characters or relations. This has been called a modalTrinity, and the persons who hold it Modalists. Sabellius,the founder of this sect, espoused the doctrine in the thirdcentury.AMASS.The Arian derives his name from Arius, a presbyter ofAlexandria, who flourished about the year 315, and the pro¬pagation of whose doctrine occasioned the famous Council ofNice, assembled by Constantine in the year 325. Ariusowned Christ to be God in a subordinate seuse, and con¬sidered his death to be a propitiation for sin. The modernArians acknowledge that the Son was the Word, though theydeny its being eternal, contending that it had only beencreated prior to all other beings. According to the diflerentdegrees of dignity assigned by this sect to Christ, in his stateof existence previous to his incarnation, do they receivethe appellation high and low Arian.SOCINLAKS, OK UNITARIANS.The Socinian takes his name from Faustus S.ocinns, anItalian, who died in Poland, 1604. There were two whobore the name Socinus, uncle and nephew, and both dis¬seminated the same doctrine.The followers of this sect assert that Christ had no exis¬tence until born of the Virgin Mary; and that, being a manlike ourselves, though endowed with a large portion of thedivine wisdom, the only objects of his mission were to teachthe efficacy of repentance without an atonement, ns a mediumqf the divine favour—to exhibit an example for our imitation—to seal his doctrine with his blood—and, in his resurrec¬tion from the dead, to indicate the certainty of our resurrec¬tion at the last day. The simple humanity of Christ, whichforms a principal article of their creed, is held by them insuch an exclusive sense, that they have, on this account,sometimes received the appellation of Humanitarians.But the Socinians have appropriated to themselves theappellation of Unitarians, and by this name they arc nowgenerally distinguished. The miraculous conception, and theworship of Christ, together with many other opinions pro-spagated by the Soeini, are, however, rejected by the modemUnitarians. ‘CALVINISTS.John Calvin, or Cauvin, after Luther, the most eminent of:the religious reformers, was born at Noyon, in Picardy, 1509.He was educated for the Eomish Church, in which he offici¬ated a short time as curate, when he resigned his living, andattached himself to the profession of the law. He continuedthe study of divinity, however, and in his twenty-third year,having gone to Paris, he abandoned every secular pursuit,and consecrated himself to the service of God. Being accusedof heresy, he was obliged to leave the kingdom, and saved him¬self from persecution by retiring to Basil in Switzerland.In 1536, he was appointed professor of divinity in Geneva.It was here he laboured so zealously in establishing the Ke-formation, and succeeded in causing the senate and people:openly to abjure the Church of Borne, and swear to a sum¬mary of doctrine and discipline, which recognized the Pres¬byterian form of church government.The death of Servetus is a deep and lasting stain on thecharacter of this eminent reformer. While vindicating theliberty of conscience, he so far forgot his own principles, andthe behests of the gospel, as to consign to the flames the un¬fortunate Socinian.Calvin’s writings are very numerous, his principal workbeing “The Christian Institute.” He died at Geneva, 24thMay, 1564.The Calvinist adheres to the doctrines which Calvin pro¬mulgated at Geneva. These, which are termed the five points,are Predestination, Original Sin, Particular Kedemption,Irresistible Grace, and the Perseverance of the Saints. Themost prominent feature of this system is the election of some,and the reprobation of others, from all eterinity. TheAssembly’s Catechism, the Westminister Confession of Faith,and Calvin’s Institutes, contain a just account of the reli¬gious opinions of this body of Christians.Calvinists form no particular distinct society, but are foundamong various denominations of Christians, Presbyterians,Episcopalians, and Independents. It is the creed of theEstablished Church of Scotland, and of the Seceders; thedoctrine of the thirty-nine articles of the Church of England;it is also acknowledged by the Dutch legalized churches:and by the generality of the Presbyterians in America.ARMINIANS.The Amman favours the tenets of Armiuius, an eminentprofessor of divinity at Leyden, who flourished about theyear 1600. Thinking the doctrine of Calvin with regard tofree-will, predestination, and grace, directly contrary to themild and amiable perfections of the Deity, he adopted senti¬ments more nearly resembling those of the Lutherans than ofthe Calvinists.His tenets include the five following propositions: 1st,That God has not fixed the future state of mankind by anabsolute, unconditional decree, but determined from all eter¬nity to bestow salvation on those whom he foresaw wouldbelieve faithfully in Jesus Christ, and to inflict punishmenton those who should continue in their unbelief. 2d, ThatChrist by his death and sufferings, made atonement for thesins of all mankind, but that those only who believe in himshall be partakers of this divine benefit. 3d, That mankindare not totally depraved, and that mortality and natural evilonly are the direct consequences to posterity of Adam’s sin.4th, That there is no such thing as irresistible grace. And,5th, That those who are united to Christ by faith, may fallfrom their faith, and forfeit finally their state of grace.This striking opposition to the doctrines of Calvin, causedArminius and his followers to be much persecuted, and in1611, they presented to the States General a Remonstrance,stating their grievances and praying for relief, since whichtime they have been known by the name of Remonstrants.BAXTEKIANS.The Baxterian strikes into a middle path, between Armin-ianism and Calvinism, and thus endeavours to unite bothschemes. With the Calvinist he professes to believe that acertain number, determined upon in the divine councils, willbe infallibly saved; and with the Arminian he joins in reject¬ing the doctrine of reprobation ; admits that Christ, in a cer¬tain sense, died for all, and supposes that such a portion ofgrace is allowed to everi/ man, as renders it his own fault ifhe doth not attain to eternal life.The name of this sect is derived from Richard Baxter, aneminent non-conformist divine of the seventeenth century,who espoused this doctrine, and defended it by his greatlearning and talents in controversy.ANTINOMIANS.The favourite tenet of the Antinomian, as his name im¬plies, is, that the law is not a rule of life to believers. Thisposition seems to carry the doctrine of the imputed righteous¬ness of Christ, and of salvation by faith without works, to10such extremes ns to injure, if not wholly destroy the veryobligation of moral obedience.The sect of Antinomians sprung up in England during theprotectorate of Oliver Cromwell, but the original founder wasAgricola, a disciple of Luther. Some of their teachers main- ;tained, as one of the essential and distinctive characters ofthe elect, that they cannot do any thing displeasing to God,or prohibited by the law.In Germany and other parts of the continent, there aremany Antinomians who condemn the moral code as a ruleof life, and yet profess a strict regard for the interests of prac¬tical religion.PAPISTS.The Papists are so denominated from their leading tenet—the infallibility and supremacy of the Pope. By the infalli¬bility of the Pope is understood that he cannot err in ecclesi¬astical matters ; and by his supremacy is meant his authorityover all the churches. The Roman Catholics, or Papists, ■profess to believe, 1st, In seven sacraments—baptism, con¬firmation, the eucharist, penance, extreme unction, or theanointing the sick in the prospect of death, orders, and matri¬mony. With respect to the Eucharist, or Lord’s Supper, •they hold the doctrine of transubstantiation, 01* that the breadand wine are changed into the body and blood of Christ; thepaying divine worship to the host or consecrated wafer, andthe allowing communion only in one kind, viz., bread, to thelaity. 2d, In works of supererogation, or that the good worksof saints are meritorious enough to supply the deficiency ofothers. 3d, In the celibacy, or single life of the clergy. 4th,In the worship of images and sacred relics. And, 5th, In thecelebration of divine service in an unknown tongue. On thesecond article of their creed, enumerated above, is founded .their doctrine of Indulgences, the sale of which, by a Dominicanfriar in the sixteenth century, eventually brought about theReformation. Many of the adherents of Popery, in the pre¬sent day, reject some of the above tenets, and especially thesupremacy of the Pope, distinguishing themselves by thename of Catholic Dissenters.Among the Roman Catholics there are to be found severalmonastic orders, such as the Augustines, the Benedictines,the Carmelites, the Dominicans, the Franciscans, &c., andalso a variety of sects, such as the Jesuits, the Jansenists,the Molinists, and others, some of whom were sects of cele¬brity.11CREEK CHURCH.The Greek, or Russian Church, which now spreads itselfover the eastern parts of Europe, is very ancient, and bears aconsiderable resemblance to the Church of Home. Denying,however, the infallibility and supremacy of the Pope, theyare in communion with the Patriarch of Constantinople.Amongst other articles of belief, they are distinguished forthese three:—1. The rejection of images. 2. The doctrineof consubstantiation, or the union of the body of Christ withthe sacramental element. 3. The administration of baptism,by immersing the whole body in water.The Greek Church equals that of Eome in the number ofceremonies, festivals, and superstitious customs. The Rus¬sians have likewise a great number of abstinences, or fasts,and among the rest four lents annually.PROTESTANTS.Under the appellation of Protestants, we include all whodissent from Popery, in whatever country they reside, or intowhatever sects they have been since distributed. Abroadthey are divided into two sorts—the Lutherans, who adhereto Luther’s tenets; and the Reformed, who follow the disci¬pline of Geneva. They were called Protestants, because, in1529, ihty protested against a decree of the Emperor Charlesthe Fifth, and declared that they appealed to a generalcouncil. At present this vast class comprehends those whomPapists used contemptuously to style Hugonots in France;Refugees in Holland, who fled thither upon the revocation ofthe Edict of Nantz, 1684 ; the Presbyterians in Scotland; theEpiscopalians and Non-conformists in England; together witha numerous body of Christians in America.ECTHERANS.Martin Luther, the great reformer of the Church, was bornin 1483 at Eisleben, in Prussian Saxony. At the age offourteen he was sent to the school of Magdeburg, from whichhe removed to Eisenach, and thence to the university ofErfurt He was destined by his father for the legal profes¬sion, but the impression produced on him by the fate of hisfriend Alexis, who was struck dead by lightning while walk¬ing by his side, induced him to devote himself to the monas¬tic life, and he entered the monastery of Augustines in 1505.Two years afterwards he was constituted priest, and in 1508was made professor of philosophy in the university of Wit-temberg. While in the monastery Luther found a treasure12which lay unheeded by his brethren, a Latin copy of theBible. This he studied with intense eagerness, and soonbegan to inculcate its doctrines. His profound learning, andthe fame of his eloquence, drew the attention of the mosteminent scholars, and rendered him a powerful advocate ofthe new light which w'as breaking upon the world. Great,therefore, was the sensation excited in 1517 by his ninety-five propositions, openly impugning the doctrine of Indul¬gences.Being called upon by many of the German nobility to de¬fend the new doctrine, he presented himself at the diet ofWorms, April, 1521, where he made an elaborate defencebefore the emperor, and a vast assemblage of the princes andprelates of Germany. After this he was concealed for ninemonths in the castle of Wirtemberg, which he called his Pat-mos, and then returned to Wittemberg, where he published asharp reply to Henry VIII., -who had written a book againsthim on the seven sacraments. In 1524 he married a nun, bywhom he had three sons. Luther’s greatest work, a transla¬tion of the whole Bible into the vulgar tongue, was given tothe wrorld in 1534. At length, worn out more by labour thanage, this illustrious man died at his native place, 1546; havinglived to see that his doctrines had taken such deep root, thatno earthly power could eradicate them.The Lutherans, of all Protestants, differ least from theRomish Church, as they affirm that the body and blood ofChrist are materially present in the sacrament of the Lord’sSupper, though in an incomprehensible manner; they like¬wise represent some religious rites and institutions, as the useof images in churches, the distinguishing vestments of theclergy, the private confession of sins, the use of wafers in theadministration of the Lord’s Supper, the form of exorcism inthe celebration of baptism, and other ceremonies of the like na¬ture as tolerable, and some of them useful. The Lutheransmaintain that the divine decrees respect the salvation ormisery of men, in consequence of a, previous knowledge of theirsentiments and characters, and not as free and unconditional,and as founded on the mere will of God, which is the tenet ofthe Calvinists.HUGONOTS.The appellation Hugonots, was given to the French Protes¬tants in 1561. During the reign of Charles the Ninth, in1572, happened the massacre of Bartholomew, when 70,000Protestants throughout France were butchered, in circum¬stances of aggravated cruelty. The famous Edict of Nantz,13which secured to the Protestants the free exercise of theirreligion, was passed in 1598. It was revoked by Louis theFourteenth. Their churches were then razed to the ground ;and after the loss of innumerable lives, 50,000 of them weredriven into exile. Many fled to Holland, where they builtseveral places of worship, and had amongst them some dis¬tinguished preachers.EPISCOPALIANS.The Episcopalians, in the modern acceptation of the term,! belong more especially to the Church of England, and to itsoff-shoots, the Episcopal Churches of Scotland and otAmerica. They insist on the divine origin of the office ofbishops and other church officers.The Church of England broke off from the Romish Churchin the time of Henry VIII., when Luther had begun theReformation in Germany. In early life, and during the firstfew years of his reign, Henry was a bigoted Papist; andhaving written a book against Luther, in defence of the sevensacraments, the Pope honoured him with the title, Defenderof the Faith. Henry, afterwards falling out with the Pope,took the government of ecclesiastical affairs into his ownhands; and having reformed many enormous abuses, entitledhimself Supreme Head of the Church.The doctrines and discipline of the Episcopal Church arenearly connected with the reformation of Luther in Germany;the thirty-nine articles of their faith in the Book of Common, Prayer, were established in the reign of Queen Elizabeth.The Church of England is governed by the king or queen,■ who is the supreme head; by two archbishops, and by twenty-! five bishops, who have each a seat and vote in the House of1 Peers. The Established Church of Ireland is the same asr that of England, and is governed by four archbishops andi eighteen bishops. It sends four spiritual lords to the British1 Parliament.DISSENTERS.Dissenters from the Church of England made their firstappearance in Queen Elizabeth’s time, when, on account ofthe extraordinary purity which they proposed in religious• worship and conduct, they were reproached with the nameof Puritans. By the Act of Uniformity passed in 1662, inthe reign of Charles the Second, two thousand ministers wereobliged to quit the Established Church, refusing to conformt| to certain conditions, whence they were called Non-conformists.ti Their descendants are known by the name of Protestant14Dissenters, and rank under the three denominations of Pres¬byterians, Independents, and Baptists.The principles on which the Dissenters separated from theChurch of England, may he summarily comprehended inthese three:—1. The right of private judgment. 2. Libertyof conscience. And, 3. The perfection of Scripture the onlyrule of faith and practice.KIRK OF SCOTLAND.The Presbyterian form of church government adopted inScotland, was brought thither from Geneva by John Knox,the celebrated Scottish reformer, and who has been styled theapostle of his country, for the same reason that Luther wascalled the apostle of Germany.Contrary to the Episcopalians, the Presbyterians maintainthat the Church should be governed by Presbyteries, Synods,and General Assemblies. In the Kirk of Scotland there arefifteen synods and sixty-nine presbyteries. Their articlesand creed are Calvinistic, and their General Assembly is heldannually in the month of May at Edinburgh.THE REFORMED SYNOD.This hod)’’ represents the adherents of Presbytery whenthat form of church government was in its purest state, asAnally settled at the second Beformation in 1649. They werereproached with a variety of titles, as Whigs, Cameronians,Mountain-men, &c. &c. The name by which they are nowcommonly known is Cameronians, from the Rev. RichardCameron, who fell at Airsmoss, in Kyle, 1680; or Covenanters,from adhering to that famous bond of union.At the Revolution, 1688, they were deserted by theirpastors, who chose to comply with the principles of thetimes, and own an authority in the Church which the morestrict covenanting people believed to be a sinful compliance,Patronage in any shape they resisted; and although theyallowed the right of Christian magistrates to hold a place inChristian Churches, according to the covenant, they wouldnot submit to what they believed to be an undue or Erastianinterference. They continued for some time without regularministers, but in 1743, they constituted a Presbytery in thename of Christ, the alone King and Head of his Church,under the title of the Reformed Presbytery. There arealtogether thirty-five congregations in this connection, whichis now called Synod, from the increase of their numbers.SECEDERS.The numerous body of Dissenters from the Church of154Scotland, who bear this name, originated under two brothers,Ealph and Ebenezer Erskine, about the year 1730. Thecauses of the secession were many, differences both in doc¬trine and discipline. The Seceders accused the NationalChurch of retaining in her bosom ministers who favoured thescheme of Arminius, and who were lax and defective in theirparochial duties—of imposing upon the people pastors towhom they were totally averse—of directly supporting thesystem of patronage—and of tyrannical conduct to those whowished to revert to the primitive practice of the ScottishChurch.Through a difference as to civil matters, they divided intotwo parties, Burghers and Anti-burghers. These have againbeen united, and form one body, under the title of the UnitedAssociate Synod, consisting of twenty-two presbyteries, withupwards of three hundred congregations.There are, besides these, two divisions of Seceders, whoremain separate, chiefly differing from their brethren withregard to the power of the civil magistrate in religious matters,and the binding obligation of the covenants. The first stylothemselves the Associate Synod of Original Seceders, whichconsists of four Presbyteries, and has under its inspectionthirty-three congregations; the other, the Original BurgherAssociate Synod, six Presbyteries, with fifty-one congregations.The Seceders adhere rigidly to the tenets of Calvin, andare rather austere in their manners and discipline.KELIEF SYNOD.This section of Presbyterians in Scotland owed its originto the violent intrusion of ministers contrary to the inclina¬tions of the people. In 1752, Mr. Thomas Gillespie, ministerof Carnock, having absented himself from the induction ofan obnoxious presentee to Inverkeithing, was deposed fromthe office of the holy ministry by the General Assembly.Some years afterwards, Sir. Gillespie was joined by Mr.Boston, minister of Oxnam, and in 1761, these two formedthemselves into a Presbytery, under the name of Relief.They soon received an accession of numbers, and continuedsteadily to increase. They lately joined the Seceders, andboth are called the United Presbyterian Church.ENGLISH PRESBYTERIANS.This appellation is appropriated to a large denomination ofdissenters from Episcopacy, although they have no attach¬ment to Presbytery as established in Scotland. Then- modeof church government is the same as that of the Independents;16but they differ from that sect in being less attached to Cal¬vinism, and consequently admitting a greater latitude ofreligious sentiment.The first Independent or Congregational Church in England,was established by a Mr. Jacob, in the year 1616. TheIndependents deny not only the subordination of the clergy,but also all dependency on other assemblies. Every congrega¬tion (say they) has in itself what is necessary for its owngovernment, and is not subject to other churches, or to theirdeputies. It is this independency of one church with respectto another that has given rise to the appellation 7nc%?enc?ents,though the same form of church government is adopted bythe Dissenters in general.The Baptists are distinguished from other denominationsrespecting the mode and subject of Baptism. They contendthat this ordinance should be administered by immersion only,and to those alone who profess their belief in the Christianreligion, and their determination of regulating their lives byits precepts. Some of them allow mixed communion, by whichis understood, that those who have not been baptized byimmersion on the profession of their faith, (but in theirinfancy, which they themselves deem valid,) may sit down atthe Lord's table along with those who have been thus bap¬tized. There are two great classes of Baptists, the general,who are Arminians, and the particular, wdro profess CalvinisticprinciplesIn the year 1797, when the scheme of missions to heathenlands was strongly advocated, the question being often taunt¬ingly asked by opposers, “Have wre no heathens at home?”it occurred to some individuals to give a practical answer;and accordingly three laymen set out from Edinburgh uponan itinerancy to the North of Scotland, to preach and distri¬bute tracts. Robert Haldane of Airthry, having sold hisestate, promoted the project with great zeal and liberality,and built tabernacles of great size at Edinburgh, Glasgow,Dundee, &c. The places of worship thus opened were con¬ducted upon the principles of free communion, and a regularcommunication with the English Independent ministers. Thesuccess was amazing, but short-lived; for Mr. Haldane soonafter changed his views, and a separation took place; oneINDEPENDENTS,BAPTISTS.SCOTTISH INDEPENDENTS.17party continuing attached to him, till they became insulatedfrom all other Christian societies, and are now a kind of non¬descript Baptists.The great majority, however, retained their original senti¬ments, and have lately formed themselves into a CongregationalUnion of Independent Churches. Their tenets are Calvinistic,but they have no formal confession of faith. Their infantsare baptized, and the ordinance of the Lord’s Supper is ad¬ministered the first day of every week. In religious mattersthey own no authority but that of the Word of God, but incivil affairs they believe it to be the duty of Christians tosubmit to the powers that be. The total number of churchesin the connection is eighty-two.FRIENDS, OR QUAKERS.' George Fox, the founder of the Society of Friends, wasborn at Drayton, Leicestershire, in 1624. He appears tohave been of a thoughtful and serious turn from his youth,and at the age of nineteen, having persuaded himself that hehad received a divine command to devote himself solely toreligion, he forsook his relations, and wandered about fromplace to place, leading a life of itinerancy, in which he fastedmuch, and walked abroad in retired places, studying theBible. In 1648, he began to propagate his opinions, andcommenced public preacher. At Derby his followers werefirst called Quakers, from their tremulous manner of delivery.He was repeatedly imprisoned by the country magistratesfor his frequent interruption of ministers while performingi divine service. In 1666, he was liberated from prison byorder of Charles II., and immediately commenced to formI his followers into a distinct and united society. His effortswere attended with great success ; and in the course of a fewI years, meetings of Friends were established in almost everyi part of England, and in many places in Scotland and Ireland.The Society of Friends advocate the principle, that humanlearning, though highly valuable in itself, is altogether insuffi¬cient to make a minister of the gospel; and that the gift ofpublicly preaching or praying ought never to be exercisedexcept under the immediate influence of the Holy Spirit.Hence, when they assemble for worship, if they believe thisgift is not called forth into exercise by the great Head of theChurch, they continue during the whole time of their meetingin silence. The work of the ministry devolves on the womenas well as on the men, the Society considering it the sole pre¬rogative of Christ to call into his service whomsoever he seesmeet for it.18In some matters of n moral and practical nature, Friendshave adopted a line of conduct different from that pursuedby other Christians; as in refraining from all use of oaths,not only on trifling occasions, but even in courts of justice ;in refusing to kneel before kings and governors, and to takeoff the hat in honour of man ; in addressing single individualsby pronouns in the singular number; and giving numericalnames to the months and days of the week, objecting to thosein common use as being mostly derived from the names ofheathen deities. They are also distinguished by the plainnessand uniformity of their dress, as they entirely disregard thechangeable fashions of the world in this respect. They con¬sider themselves enjoined, by the great moral code, underevery circumstance to suffer wrong rather than to avenge it,and to abstain from all participation in warfare, whetheroffensive or defensive.The Society of Friends believe that the baptism of Christ,(which is by the Holy Ghost,) and a participation by faith inhis body and blood, are essential to membership in his Church,and to the salvation of the soul; but they disuse the outwardceremonies of the ordinances of Baptism and the Lord’sSupper as now practised among Christians, believing thatthey do not correspond with the spirituality of true worship.They likewise believe in the divinity of the Father, theSon, and the Holy Spirit; in the incarnation of the Son, andthe atonement made by him on the cross for the sins of allmen ; in his resurrection, ascension, and supreme government ;in the immortality of the soul, and resurrection of the body;in the future glorious appearing of Jesus Christ; and in thefinal and universal judgment of quick and dead.METHODISTS.This numerous sect sprung up at Oxford in 1739. InNovember of that year, John Wesley, and his younger brotherCharles, with a few other students at the University, formedthemselves into a small society, for the purpose of mutualedification in religious exercises. So singular an associationexcited considerable notice; and among other names bestowedupon the members, that of Methodists was applied to them,from the exact regularity of their lives. Their numbers con¬tinued gradually to increase; and, in the year 1735, theywere joined by the celebrated George Whitfield. The So¬ciety professed an attachment to the articles and liturgy ofthe Established Church, but adopted the mode of worshipwhich prevails among the Dissenters. Whitfield and theWesleys being excluded from the pulpits in many churches,took to preaching in the fields, until spacious meeting-houseswere built for them in London, Bristol, and other places.In the year 1741, these leaders having differed on accountof the doctrine of election, the Methodists separated into twoparties; one section adhering to Mr. Whitfield, who con¬tended for particular redemption ; the other to the Wesleys,who were for universal redemption: the former being Cal¬vinists, the latter Arminians. Many of the Wesleyanpreachers, however, incline to Baxterianism.■The distinguishing principles of Methodism are,—Salvationby faith in Jesus Christ; perceptible, and, in some cases, in¬stantaneous conversion; and an assurance of reconciliation toGod, with which, they say, the new birth is inseparably at¬tended.NEW METHODISTS.In the year 1797, a number of the followers of Mr. Wesleyseparated themselves from the great body of the sect, andformed what is called the New Methodist Connection. Theyaccuse the original Methodists of having constituted a hier¬archy, or priestly corporation, and have thus deprived thepeople of those privileges which, as members of a ChristianChurch, they were entitled to. The New party profess tohave promoted the union of ministers and people as much aspossible, by establishing their church government on popularprinciples. They do not differ in their doctrines from theWesleyan Methodists.JUMPERS.This singular practice of jumping during the time allottedfor religious worship, originated among the Methodists inWales, about the year 1760. " Soon after this period, some otthe more zealous itinerant preachers began to recommendgroaning, and loud talking, as well as loud singing, repeatingI the same line or stanza over and over thirty or forty times;and even went so far as to encourage the people to put them¬selves in violent agitation, and finally to jump till they werequite exhausted, and unable to move. It is some consolationto real religion to add, that this unbecoming practice has(greatly declined, and it is to be hoped, has been abandoned'.for a more reasonable service.UNIVERSALISTS.I The Universalists, properly so called, are those who believe,I that as Christ died for all, so, before he shall have delivered(up his mediatorial kingdom to the Father, all shall be broughtsoto a participation of the benefits of his death, in their restora..»tlon to holiness and happiness. Their scheme includes areconciliation of the tenets of Calvinism and Arminianism, iby uniting the leading doctrines of both, as far as they are <found in the Scriptures: from which union they think the isentiment of universal restoration naturally flows.DESTROCTIONISTS.Between the system of restoration, and that of endlessmisery, n middle hypothesis of the final destruction of the iwicked, (after being punished according to their guilt,) has ;been advocated by many persons distinguished for theirerudition and piety. They say that the Scripture positivelyasserts this doctrine of destmetion; that the nature of futurepunishment (which in the Bible is termed death) determines fthe meaning of the words, everlasting, eternal, for ever, &c.,as denoting endless duration ; that the deliverance of thewicked, after receiving a punishment apportioned to their icrimes, is an act of absolute justice ; and finally, that of the ;mediatorial kingdom of Jesus Christ, there shall be no end.SABBATARIANS.The Sabbatarians are a body of Christians wdio keep the;seventh day as the Sabbath, and are to be found principally, ;if not wholly, among the Baptists. The common reasons why jChristians observe the first day of the week as the Sabbath, [are, that on this day Christ rose from the dead; that the •apostles assembled, preached, and administered the Lord’s :Supper; and it has been kept by the Church for severalages, if not from the time when Christianity was originallypromulgated. The Sabbatarians, how'ever, think these rea¬sons unsatisfactory; and assert that the Scripture doth no¬where require the observation of any other day of the weekfor the Sabbath but the seventh day only. There are twocongregations of this sect in London, and" it is said they arenumerous in America.MYSTICS.The Mystics are those who profess a pure and sublimedevotion, with a disinterested love of God, free from all selfishconsiderations. Passive contemplation is the state of per¬fection to which they aspire. Mysticism is not confined toany particular profession of Christianity, but is to be under¬stood as generally applied to those who dwell upon theinward operations of the mind, (such as the Quakers, &c.,)laying little or no stress on the outward ceremonies ofreligion21MILLENARIANS.I The 31 illenarians are those who believe that Christ williireign personally on earth for a thousand years ; their namenhaving a direct allusion to the duration of this spiritualempire. The doctrine of the Millennium has always retaineda number of adherents both in ancient and modern times;and several eminent divines have advanced different opinionsrespecting the nature and duration of this paradisiacal state.But, however the Millenarians may differ regarding thisgreat event, it is very generally believed that such a revolutionwill be effected in the latter days, as will banish vice and itsattendant misery from the earth, and terminate the granddrama of human affairs with Universal Felicity.SWEDENBORGIANS.The Swedenhori/ians are the followers of Emanuel Sweden¬borg, a Swedish nobleman, and philosophical enthusiast of theeighteenth century, now chiefly known as the founder of theNew Jerusalem Church. His tenets, although peculiarly dis¬tinct from every other system of divinity in Christendom,appear to be drawn from the Holy Scriptures, and are sup¬ported by numerous quotations from them. He asserts, thatin the year 1743, the Lord manifested himself to him in apersonal appearance; and opened his spiritual eyes, so thati he was enabled constantly to see and converse with spirits andangels. From that time he began to publish various wonder-I ful things relating to heaven and hell, the several earths inthe universe, and their inhabitants, with many other extra¬ordinary particulars, the knowledge of which was, perhaps,never pretended to hy any other writer.Baron Swedenborg denies a Trinity of persons in the God¬head, but contends for a divine Trinity in the single personof Jesus Christ alone, consisting of a Father Son and HolySpirit. He likewise denies the doctrine of atonement, orvicarious sacrifice, together with the doctrines of predestina¬tion, unconditional election, justification by faith alone, theresurrection of the material body, &c., and in oppositionthereto maintains, that man is possessed of free will in spiri¬tual things; that salvation is not attainable without repen¬tance ; and that man immediately on his decease, rises againin a spiritual body, in which he lives to all eternity, either inheaven or in hell, according to the quality of his past life.It is further maintained by Swedenborg and his followers,that by the end of the world, or consummation of the age, isnot signified the destruction of the world, but the end of theexisting Christian Church, and that this last judgment actu-22ally took place in the spiritual world in the year 1757 ; fromwhich era is dated the second advent of the Lord, and thecommencement of a new church, which, they say, is meantby the new heaven and new earth in the Revelation, and theNew Jerusalem thence descending.The Swedenborgians use a liturgy, and instrumental, aswell as vocal music in their public worship. They are numer¬ous in England, Germany, and Sweden, and many of themare also to be found in America.TRACTARIANS.The Tractarians are a sect of recent origin in the Churchof England, but whose principles have appeared from time totime, under various modifications, since the establishment ofthat church, ami the settlement of its articles and formulasby Queen Elizabeth. The term Tractarian has been appliedto them in consequence of the publication of their views in aseries of pamphlets, entitled Tracts for the times. When thesehad reached the number of ninety, their authors issued oneentitled “Remarks on Certain Passages in the Thirty-nineArticles," in which it is admitted that the tenor of the ex¬planations is Anti-protestant. Indeed the obvious tendencyof the “ Tracts,” appeared to be the establishment of as closean approximation to the Romish Church as could legally betolerated within the pale of the Church of England. Thisopinion is amply borne out by many of those who held Trac¬tarian views going over to the Church of Rome, while suchas retain their livings adopt every means of showing bowgreat importance they attach to external forms and cere¬monies. Their teaching is characterized by extravagant viewsof the efficacy of the sacraments, of baptismal regeneration,and of the actual presence of Christ in the communion ; whileone of their chief writers look with favour on the celibacyof the clergy, and even on auricular confession and monasticvows; at the same time they claim for the clergy a spiritualpower equal to the highest which the Church Of Rome securedfor its priesthood in the most ignorant of the middle ages.There was no further issue of the “ Tracts for the Times,"beyond number ninety; and that one, in which the wholeforce of the Articles of the Church was attempted to be sub¬verted, has been withdrawn and nominally suppressed. Sincethen lb'. Pusey, one of the chief leaders of the new sect, andfrom whom it is frequently termed Puseyism, has been sus¬pended from preaching for three years, and various othermeans have been adopted with a view to counteract the here¬tical tendency of these opinions.23IRVINGITES.Edward Irving, the founder of the religious sect whichbears his name, was born at Annan, in Dumfriesshire, in theyear 1792. After completing his studies at the universityof Edinburgh, he was appointed teacher of Mathematics toan academy at Haddington, whence he removed to fill a similarsituation in Kirkaldy. He continued there till the year 1819,when he came to Edinburgh with a determination of becom¬ing a preacher of the gospel; and on Dr. Chalmers hearinghim in the pulpit, he appointed him to be his colleague in St.John’s Church, Glasgow. In 1823 he accepted a call to thechapel in the Caledonian Asylum, London, where those pecu¬liar views were developed, which have given so much noto¬riety to his name. The force, eloquence, and novelty of styleand manner of Mr. Irving, drew very large congregations tohear him ; and for some time the highest circles of rank andtitle were to be found forming the bulk of his crowded audi¬ences. The mysteries of the Apocalypse, and the most diffi¬cult portions of the prophetic writings became the favouritesubjects of his discourse; new and startling doctrines werebroached, the most prominent of which was, the sinfulness ofChrist’s human nature ; and to this succeeded the claims toapostolic gifts among the leading members of his congrega¬tion.The General Assembly of the Church of Scotland havingpronounced his published works to be erroneous and hereti¬cal, he was deposed from the office of the ministry, alongwith several other preachers who had adopted the same opin¬ions. A new church was immediately formed, in connexionwith which congregations are to be found in most of theprincipal towns of the kingdom. The Irvingites have revivedthe names applied to the different office-bearers of the NewTestament Church, having angels, prophets, teachers, andevangelists, among their members; and they encourage theexercise of apostolic gifts, such as speaking with tongues, andprophesying under the immediate influence of the Holy Spirit.They believe the Millennium to be near at hand, and thatChrist will reign personally on earth during that gloriousperiod of universal peace and happiness.LATTER-DAY SAINTS.The founder of this sect, Joseph Smith, jun., as he wascalled—born in 1805, was a digger for gold in America, pre¬vious to his commencing public preacher and prophet. Hisfollowers are known by the name of Mormons, Mormonites,and Latter-day Saints, The first congregation was organized24in 1831, and now, in less than twenty years, the sect numbers30,000 people in Great Britain, and about five times thatnumber in America. They are the principal inhabitants of aterritory in the latter country, to which they have given thename of “ Deseret,” a word that occurs in their new Bible,or Book of Mormon, and which is said to signify a “honey¬bee.”They expect in a short time, by means of emigration fromGreat Britain, and by the gathering together of their people,to muster a sufficient number in Deseret, to claim formaladmission into the American Union.HUTCHINSON IANS.Hutchinsonians, the followers of John Hutchinson, born inYorkshire, 1674, and who in the early part of life served theDuke of Somerset in the capacity of a steward. The HebrewScriptures, he says, comprise a perfect system of naturalphilosophy, theology, and religion. In opposition to Dr.Woodward’s Natural History of the earth, Mr. Hutchinson,in 1724, published the first part of his curious book, called,Moses’a Principia. Its second part was presented to_ thepublic in 1727, which contains, as he apprehends, the princi¬ples of the scripture philosophy, which are a plenum and theair. So high an opinion did he entertain of the Hebrewlanguage, that he thought the Almighty must have employedit to communicate every species of knowledge, and. thataccordingly every species of knowledge is to be found in theOld Testament. Of his mode of philosophising the followingspecimen is brought forward to the reader’s attention. “ Theair (he supposes) exists in three conditions, fire, light, andspirit, the two latter are the finer and grosser parts of the airin motion: from the earth to the sun, the air is finer and finertill it becomes pure light near the confines of the sun, and firein the orb of the sun, or solar focus. From the earth towardsthe circumference of this system, in which he includes thefixed stars, the air becomes grosser and grosser till it becomesstagnant, in which condition it is at the utmost verge of thissystem; from whence (in his opinion) the expression of outerdarkness, and blackness of darkness, used in the New Testament,seems to be taken.”The followers of Mr. Hutchinson are numerous, andamong others the Rev. Mr. Romaine, Lord Duncan Forbesof Culloden, and the late amiable Dr. Horne, Bishop ofNorwich, who published an Abstract of Mr. Hutchinson swritings. They have never formed themselves into anydistinct church or society.