THE!Life and DeathOFJane Shore,CONCUBINE to EDWARD IV.TO WHICH IS ADDED,A Genuine Lstter fr< r» Janje to the King,also1A Short Acomirt cf FAIR ROSAMOND,Concubine to Henry II.THEHISTORYOFMRS. JANE SHORE.'-w-''*'*   C H A P. I.Of her Birth find Parentage; together‘■.i'itb a defcript;on oj her perfon ‘whenfill grown.MRS. JANE SHORE was daughterto Mr. Thomas Wainfttd, a cia- |zen ofgood repute, who lived in Gtieapfice, ’by trade a mercer. She beisg the only ,ch.ild of her parents, w»s brought up withall the care and tendernefs imagmab!e;not wantingany education that was properfor her; and her n-itura! temper, whichwas very airy , being joined to her edu- |cation, and that degree of pride, which,, jas it is natural, fome make nectlV ry forthe female fex, helped to fet her off tothe beft rdvantage. Fine fe thers alv. aysjnV>ke fine birds; and if die birds are finewithout them, doubtlefs they make themfc doubly.( 3 )' This lovely woman was the delight ohiier father, who cioth?d her richly, adorn-.d her with jewels; and his trade lyingi Imong the court ladies, he often carried;er with -him to ihew her the paftimesvhichwere mad it eqaently here to diverthe Queen, See. which gave her an earlylonging after a greater gentility than fhei ud ever yet attained to cr her city breed¬ing was to produce.When fhe grew to the age of fifteenier competent flock of beauty and good'carriage, caufed many to fall in love with,i ter, and fome great Lords fixed their: ;yes upon her, and to get her fo~ a mii-: refs, which her father perceiving fen: hero his fillers at Northampton, where fhe:,emaintd about a year, till he fuppofedjlhe enquiry after her was over, atid thatnhe might return witl-o.ut an; hazard of!, leing any further tempted to lewdnefs.jiVet Ihe was no fooner returned, but a plotLvas laid one night to have her carriedi'away by Lord Haftings, who after theHeath of King Edward took her for hisnoncubine, as will appear in this niflorycJ3ut the maid he had bribed with gold toiget her sbrord repenting fuch treacery|o h r mailer, gave timely notice, asdjefo prevented it.( 4 )G H A P. II.Cf her Marriage with Mr. Shore.HER father perceiving; that unlefs hetook fome I peed y courfe, her greatftock of Beauty would he her ruin, re-folved to' marry her, fo that havingfir rendered her virginity, and being inthe arms of of a hufbjnd, thofe that feuphtt o crop her virgin role, would not regardher, hut give over'their purfuit.And among thofe that courted, andearnellly fought her in v/ay of marriage,v.ras one Matthew Shore, a rich goldlmithin Lombard S reet, whom her fatherpitched, upon as a right hufbami, andacquainted his fair daughter with his in¬tention to marry her to him, but fitstppesred very averfe to it,- aliedgingfotnetimes rii(proportion ofyears,he beingsb ive thirty; rnd at other limes his beingmuch disfigured with the Imaihpox, andmany other exceptions the made. How¬ever, her father’s poCtive commands, andthe rich prefents her lover made her, wonher confent, cr feemingly file yeilded tothe match, and fo married they were, ingreat pon.p, many of the court, as wellw> the. city, being invited to tf;e wed¬ding, which was kept with great feelingmarry darrs.  ( 5 )CHAP. III.Of her*being Courted by Lord HastinGS-twho being refufed by •her, praifed 'betto the King, who voent to vijit It r.THE wedding being over, and the:bridegroom enjoying his charmingbride, grew exceedingly fond ot jier, evento doating; which likened and pauledher love towards him, and he perceivingit ilreve to wind himfelf more into hernfi’eftions; and to this end he eionthedher very rich, and adorned her with jew¬els, denying her notlPng Ihe defireci, orthat he thought would tend to her fatil-fadlion or delight.It v. as not long before Lord Hadingsheard the unwelcome news, that l is fsirJane was married; which however didnot make him give over his purpoie ot'enjoying her fair body; fo that often 1:retorted to fee her, treating at home, ar.her hufband abroad; often inviting themboth to court; and took his opportunitiesto pour out many amorous difeourfes*endeavouri ng by all means to make her.defile the marriage bed. At one time,,intending to try his utmolt efforts, hethrew her on a bed when they were alone;but fhe got from him, and ran to her huf-baud, telling him plainly how rude Lordn- «xt 6 )Mailings had beea; which angering Shorf,be modeftly rebaked him, forbidding him•h.3 houie, whiab made him fhng arvay ina great heat, refolving to be revtflged.This f.ord b ring chamberlain to Kdwardthe Fourth, having frequently his ear, andfind.ng he was much inclined to fine wo¬men, though he was married to LadyElizabeth Grey, took an opportunity totell him of Jane's beauty, extolling herwit above her features, which made theKing hearken to this new adventure, andhe refolved to go to Shore’s (hop in dif-guife to fee her.The King whofe thoughts {til! run onhis intended m ill ref.-:, delayed not long opay her a vifit; and in order to it attiredhimfelf like a merchant, end ' i hdrewprivately from the court, onlv attendedby a page. And coming in to Shore’s 11 op,the-i the richell >n Lombmd-Stfeet, hefound the good man employed in his bu-•finefs; and waiting rill he a littleleifure, he defired to fee feme plate, whichbeing fhewn him, he, under a pretence ofcarrying it beyond fe», foon agreed fora coi fid .rable quantity. But yet no wifeappeared, which made him de'!ay the timewit , difeourfe, < f what was thm tranfafl-ing in England •utd places abroad, where•he faid he had travelled.ii 7 VTTfts delighted Shore mightily, To ‘thatrhe ordered ins man to {'etch ti’jp a bottle•of wine, and they drank merrily, thegood man beginning with a health to theking, which the k;ng pledged him in. Sowhen fome other healths had pafTed, theking sliced if '.here was not a Riillrefs toib fair a houle? other wife he could helphim to a wife, rich, young and beautful.For this offer Shore thanked him, but-told him he was already married to fucha one as he deferibed, whom he lovedentirely. Tins difeourfe made the king-move defirous to fee her before he depart¬ed. and afbed "ff he could not have a fightof her. Snore little thinking what wasintended lor his ruin, and proud of hisv he's beauty.; foon yielded to'his r.queh,and ordertd her to be called down, who•came atthed in a fky-coloured morninggown, flowered with gold,, embroideredwith pearls and fpa. gks, her head attiredwith curious lace, under which her hamflowed wantonly, and her blufhes ms.ie-her appear Hill more beautiful.I he king no fooner faw her, but heflept forth and faluted her foft coral lips,imprtfling on then1, many balmy kiffes.Then (he, by her hufoand’s defire, fatdown, and the king drank to her, ffepledged him, and paffed it to her hufband-I hen much dkcourf: endued, in whichtf;:S appga?ercf fo witty, that the Idng re- Itotved to have her at any rate; and foprefentgd fier sv'uh forae curious things, ;hs paid for his plate, which the good man - Iwould have lent home, but, he refilled b, |ordering his page to carry it; and with'marry kiilhs he took leave of the charming, jlair ior that time.I 1 o    . jC H A P. IV.•CJ'b&r gving to Court and mbat happened \f there.r*I~>ITE king was no former departed,.but J.ne rlked her hufband, wtj.0Prat gentleman w*s thdt had been loliberal to her? He told her, he Hid heV!as a merchant, but he knew him not,Ah! [aid (he I rather take him for ibnre.i.ord tn difguife; therefore, tweet huf*baud, if he ihould come again, tell himI am frck, or any Jiing that you canfeign, to dhappoint him.Mr Shore was greatly pleafed at hercondubt, knd more difcourle had palled,but people corning into the fkop aboutbufmefs, the retired-Tne king ibon arrived at court, wherebe had been miiTed by his nobles, ibonchtmied his apparel, and came amonglt.them with a cheprful counter.nnce, andtho’ others were ignorant, Jrlafungs weil( 9 )7 perceived where he had been, aud theiatiofatlion he had received; and no loon-3 er were they in private, but the kins* faia,“Well; H^ftings thou hail good j'tdge-! inent in fine women; I have leen Shore’si avife, and ihe exc'ells the praifes you g;tvet me of her; I like her well, and mult en-{ joy her, but how mufl 1 bring it about;3 to court her in her hufbands’ prefence as« a private perfun, I ihall be ierved as yo«was; and do.it as a king will look tooI low for me. I will not force her fromJus arms, for that would caufe a murmer-ing among my fubje&s, who would fearthe like by their wives and daughters;but I mu ft have her, and with her o#uconfent. 'diallings f.niling, immediately faid, takeno care, for this fhall be ealy to yourHighnefs; there is one Mrs. Blague yourlace woman, who has a noufe pretty nearShore’s, and is very intimate with hiswife. This woman is very fond of money,to fuch a degree that it would make herdo any thing. Her wid I engage in thismatter, and truft me ihe will foot} bringit w pafs to your fatisfaftion. The K.ngliked this device, and it was agreed thathe ihould iee her at this Mrs. Bhgec’s,and -ave freedom to coirt her, but iheIhould nor know that he wjs the Xing, mi-tu he thought proper to have it diicovered.( 10 )Lord Haftings was not idle in promotinghis mailer's happinefs, and with gilts andlarge promifes i’oon made the lace womanpliable, fo that many meetings were madeat her houfe, the King coming in dii’,:u:feas her friend: and though Mrs. Blogueoften left them alone, and the King court¬ed her with all the rehetorick he was everpoffible of, yet Ihe appeared averfe to hislove,and very often reproved him fharpiyfor perfuading her to defile the bed; andthen Hie went to chide Mrs. Blague forf:\ffering fuch a rude man to come to herhoufe, telling her the defign he had onher challity; fne feemed very furprifedat it; but en reated her to be at eafe,%forihe would not faffer him to come thereany more.This pacified her, but the plot wasfurther laid for her ruin, and at Chrillmastime Ihe got leave of Mr. Shore for hiswife to accompany her to the court, toice the ball there, which he con-fen ted towith fome unwilling.-.efs. And foon afterihe was introduced, * man of very comelyport entered, w ith a mafic on; and Mrs.Shore heard the Ladies whifper, Thai'sthe king; v ho looking round, through hisTn-fk, fixed his eyes upon her, immed¬iately hepped to tier feat, knd took heroat to dance, along with him. At thisihe- blulhec; but not to be upmanneily.( II )file complied, and the dance being ended,he took her to a jingle light and pullingoff his made to falute her, the perceivedit to be the i’anie man whom Hie had feenat her own (hop. and at Mrs;' Blagnc’shoufe, and putting s letter in her hand,hereturned. Then coming to Mm. Blaguefne deiired to go home; to this ihe con-Heated, and then read the letter; whichwas to this pirpdfe:“ My Lovely Jane*“ Your beauty has enthralled myheart, his a king fues you will be kind tohim,-and by a line tell him fo to hiscomfort.”•When (he read this letter, (he lef"'Mrs. Blague abruptly, judging (he hada hand in the matter.C H A P. V.Of her leaving her Hufband, and y ieldingto the King’s define.ALL the next night the fair Jane wasrdtlefs, her hudband enquired thecmfe, but could not learn it. As foonas die was up fne went to Mrs. Blagueto confult what (lie muff do in this (Irak,well knowing the king’s humour.Mrs. Bk-gue ieetng her th; s pe-five,faid, Corny, my dear,' you muff aot be( 12 )coy, nor deny the king’s requeft; Youwill glitter fo near a throne, and enjoya gallant bed-fellow. I find he is refoivedto have vou for a miftrsfs; and thereforeit is bell; for you willingly to fubmitto him.At this difoourfe fine trembled, yet con-fideringfromthemsny atteroptsherbeautyhad caufed, that it was not made to be en¬joyed by one; in a fatal hourfiie confented;and inltead of writing an infwer to theking’s letter, it was agreed, that, that verynight flae ihould take her apparel, and putkerfelf into the arms of the king. Thisbeirrj concluded, Mrs. Blague font theKing notice, who fent a chariot for them ^and in the meantime her elothes wereconveyed away t« Mrs. Blague’s. How¬ever, fhe fupped with her hufband, whenon a fudden homebody came on a feignedefrand, and laid her mother was taken ill,and defi ed to fpeak with her. He wouldhave goce with hor. but flic put it off; andgiving him the la,'l kifs he ever receivedfrom her, fhe left him- And coming wherethe chariot flood ready, fhe & Mrs. Blaguegot into it, and vere conveyed info theKing’s fecret apartment, where they foundhim in his dofet. He welcomed them,by it befng late Mrs. B.ague departed,and they vtent to bed.( 13 )chap, viOf the ftarcb made of ter ler, Jbe it joundto be with tbe King; and the death of Shore *A/f R. Shore fitting up late, and his wifenot returning, was very much trou¬bled, and went to his mother-in-law’s, butthey had not feen her, nor was her motherill; fo that her abfence troubled the wholefamily. The next day was fpent in feedingfor her amongft her relations and friends,but found her not. Mrs. Btegue proteftedfhe had not feen her, dropping fome dif-fembling tears, fo that her huiband wasf almolt diftra&ed, at laft he concluded Hie> was taken away by fome courtier; andin three days after, a lady informed themI fhe was with the king. This added more(ill to their grief, and they knew not whatm courfe to take; they knew if they went tocrofe the king it would be their ruin.They made enquiry indeed if it was hervoluntary acl, and finding it was, and ihe^quite unwilling to leave her new lover,thev loll all hepes of recovering her; fothat Mr. Shore,.growing melancholy , foldoff all he had, and tra tiled mto fore'gncountries; he pr:.fti!ed clipping and fifing; gold rein to maintain hlrrieif, for whichhe f ffered death, the latter end of Henrythe VIII’s reigu.( U )CHAP VII.Of her living- in great pomp until the Death ^of King Edward,- and of her beingConcubine to Lord Haftingt.JANE Shore having furrendered up herchaitity to the king, pleafed with theglittering of a court, and endeared by amonarch’s iove, was admired by the vul¬gar, towards whom fhe behaved in a mollcourteous manner.Her power was fo great with the kingthat when his courtiers dared not inter¬cede for the poor and miferable that layunder his difpleafure, fhe with her wit,would fo abate his anger, that fhe favedthe lives of many, both poor and rich. ;And tho’ (lie could in a manner do all ^with him, yet it was never known filetifed her influence to the prejudice of any. JAnd both in London, and the progrefs fh^made in the country, (he would caufe poorpe - 'e to be lought for, and relieve their jne effiti :, inducing and perfuading others jwho exp-.-fted any good offices from the Aki '• py her means, to t:o the fame, neverfci "T her favours, and by her ready witihc b ftl d the court ladies, who fo envied :her , p. mg tuat they found themfelvesU '.adc .u) repirtee And tho’ the k ng |hid atijuier Pialrcfs before her, namely ,' c ' 1 ■ ■( 15 )Lady BjITty, yet he preferred our heroinemuch above her, ard would often mer¬rily Ly, I have uo miurefTcs of q >itedifferent tempers, one of the moil religi¬ous, and the other the merriell: in England:and indeed fhe was had in great favour a.11the reign of this king, having crouds ofpetetioners waiting at her chamber door,or at the chariot fide, when Hie was toride abroad, whofe fails to the aimed,of her power die preferred,—As forMrs, Blague, who leall deferved it ofher, fhe procured of the k:ng a Uatelyhoufe and manor worth 210I. per annum.The Romifh prielis wrere fpighted at her,becaufe ihefheltered many from their rageand fury, after theyhad burned John Hullfor a heretic.As no worldly pomp nor greatnefs is oflong continuance, fo now her glory wasended, and her daysof inexprtffible miftrybegan, for the king dying at Wefi.minder,in the fortieth year of his age, no foon :rwas he buried in the cl'spel of his ownfounding at Wtndfor, but Crock-backedRichard Ids brother, who murdered H.nryVI. and prince Henry his ion, afpiring tothe throne* tho’ Ed vard had left two forsbehind him viz, Edward and Rich Td,ana feveral daughters. aU lawfully bego'-ten by tl:£ Q ieen, quarreiied with LordHillings, who aider the death pftlie KingIiad taken Jane Shore for his concubine,as now free, becaufe he would not affidhim'in his wicked project, of makinaawaywith his two newphews, whom he after-wardscaufed to be murdered in the Tower,ailedging, that die Queen and Shore’s wifehad bewitched them: Shewing his wither¬ed arm, which all knew had been fo fromhis cradle. And that Lord thinking to jexcufe her, faid, If they have done fo,they ought to be punifhed. Richard fu- itjrioufly replied, Thou traitor, doll thouferve me with Ifs and Ands? I fay theyhave done fo, and that will make goodon thv body: wherefore; I arrelt theeLord Ha (lings of high treafon. And foonafter, he caufed his head to be cut off”in the Tower.CHAP. 'VIII.yane Shore cheated of her Jewels byMrs. Bl igue; of htr d:ing Pennancein the Streets/ with the Pu'vjbment of<1 Baker for relieving he.’.1 and herDying Lamentation.T AMK Sjiore hsd no fooner notice oft'rerie ith of Lord HalHujs her pin nour,but fbe perceived, a llor u was filling onher oa’t head, and therefore ihe-thoughtit nccelLry to provi le in time, and to (hecarried her jewels to her old confident . |( )Mrs. Bl*gue, entreating ber to concealthem for her. But ire, like a fakhlefswoman, when Jane came and slked forthem, not only denied them, but givingany lucconr; when in the greateft needIhe came to cr ve alms. Ihe thnrft herout of doors, threatening to have her whip¬ped for her impudence.Richard, by means aforefiid. havinggot to the cn.wn, and to make hi ml iffair by other fins, though he was a mon-iler of nature, publickly declaring hismother to lie a whore, his brother andhis children to be baftrrds, ctufed his'queen to be impriibned, and would havev/edded his niece. He ordered oi r JaneShore to be apprehended, dripped oil allihe had, and to do pennance, by feveraltimes walking in a white fhcet, a d thenwalk bare-footed and Ivrre-headed tn herfliift, before the proceflian with a crofs>nd a wax taper in her hand, throughCheapfide, which (he did, looking fo love¬ly in her bluihes, that many pitied her;and alfb (tripping ali her triends and re¬lations of whatever they, had, pretendingthey had got it hv her means from thecrown, in king Edward’s reign; whichwith the difgrace their only daugrtrr wasfallen into, caufed her parents death.Richard, not content witn this, put ona fevers pro clam a,Cioa to this tfttel: Thatbn pain of death and confifcnbon of goods,no oneiliould harbourher in their houfes,or relieve them with food or raiment ; fothat Ihe went wandering t^p and down tofind her food on bufhes and dunghills,•where font.e friends fhe had railed wouldthrow bones with more meat than ordin¬ary, and crufls of Hale bread in the placeswhere (he generally haunted. And x baker,v/ho had been condemned to die for a riotin king Edward’s reign, *nd faved by’ hermeans, as he faw her pafs along, in gra-titnde for her kindnefs. trunHied a peiv yloaf after her, which fhe thankfully tookrp a-d bleffed him with tears in her eyes.But feme malicious neighbour informingsgainfl him, he was tv ken up and hangedfor difobeying king Richard’s prociams-lion; which fo terrified others, that theydurfl not relieve iitr with any thing, fo ■that in mifer ble rags almoil n-ked, lhayvent • bout a moll /hacking ipeclacie,wringing her hands, and bemoaning herunhappy circumtlances.Thus fhe continued till the b-'ttle ofBofworth Field, wherein Richard wasfl .in bv Henry Earl of Richmond, whofucceeded him bv the name of Henrythe Seveirr; in which reign fhe hopedfor better days; bit fortune railed f.-rs-nother a iveria:y. for he rnirried Fdiz:-b.th eld’d! daughter toLU ward the fourth,( 4 )in ind King Edward’: Q^ren, who mortallyhrted her, then bearing a gre£t f^7ay, flic?| P scored another proclamation to thefame• efT 6b; and fo (lie wandered up and downin as poor and mifer b e a condition asbefore: dil .growing old, and utterlyfriendlefs, ihe fin flied her life in a ditch,; whi h was from that time called Shore’s^ ditch, adjoining to B fbopfgate Street.1^ ^ 1 has ) ,i i may tee the rife and fall oft.'iis once il.uely, and then unhappywoman, wi b whofe dy.ng LamentationI ihull tow conclude.The Dying Lamentation ofMas JANE SHORE.Gscd People^rjpHough bv the rigour of the is ’ yctx*re fo bid to give me any relief, yetyou may pity my unhappy fl*te, for,thefcripture f ith, “That to the mileribiepity fhould be fhcwn.” I am now put-t*’’g a perod to a mifer.b’e life. A lifethat I have long been weary of: Norwon.d I d-.ftrc to live in the fpiendonr,pof»-p, ancj glory of Edward’s court No,I an, happier now on the dunghill thanever I was in his arms; for O ! It was*n adulterous he-d in feed. Oh! wretch!that I ktiew Kir.g Edyrardl that ever( 20 )I was betraved by him ! What floods offorrows have my fins occafioned? Oh!learn from me, good people, to beware ofvain delights; they promife fair, bat leavebitter flings behind them. Alas! youthink my punifhmvnt bi*ter in this world,and fo it is; for I have endured a ihouf-and deaths in one: But now my dyingmoments are come, I rejoice. Sincere re¬pentance has lecnred me happiuefs above'.But Qi'il where repentance is not given,what feas of torment rack the foul.  O happy dunghill, how do I embrace thee;from thee ray pardoned foul fliall iosr toheaven, though here I leave this filthycareale.O that the name of Shore may be anantidote to Hop the poifonous and foulcontageon of lull for ever.A Genuine LETTER from JANE SHORE- to KiKG EDWARD the Fourth, taieftfrom a vrry ancient llift&ry oj JuneShore,Flay it plenje my ICing andMafter,VOUCHSAFE to.ftayne thy royal couchwith the poor inklings of thy fervant andhandmaid, suborn natbiefse thou baft moftgractoufiy dtiygned to raife unto tby royalcouche, as Abrabatndidhis Lanmaaid ITijat,: tbtugh 1 vui/hc not to Jhare her misfortune^and to be driven from my mafter's prtfence.Could my unworthy pen give a decentcolouring to tey fane'* affection, thenmight words, which be the painting ofthoughts in the true bearte^ do juftice tothe loyal love fbe heatetb unto tby worthyperfonne—But bow can the black rivulet,which my pen is eager to dritike. be worth¬ily enabled to eXprefs, inbeco myr.ge terrmes,the scean of love, that abcundythe in mytrue befsrt.Would to my Saviours, that this ocean oflove were not troubled with winds whichblows therein, and rayfe the waves of cj-fichcn within my moody foul.I am encompafsed by three potent enemy et,albeit not the f. jh, the world, and the devil,un efs Lord Haftings be ref tabled to thefirfti for be worketh to withdraw my lovefrom thee, and in tby abfehce to. difpLcethee from the throne, whereon the king isrjtabhfued in my bearte.The royal partmryof thy bofome, thequeen, may indeed be likened unto the world,for foe encompafseth me round with fpies,who watebe cut for my tboughtes. Andthough 1 will not befo barf re in my tb'ovgbtcor died, to fay tby noble brother Glouieftcrhe in any Jlsupe like unto the dcVtl; yetJ do verily believe he be more dangeroufe,'■ban the other twain, though be beorxib( -2 )There lefoms, end divers fo7iie, who fcyhe wljbetb not well unto 'tby government;nay, unto thy children.Among the reft the noble Lord Llaftlngsdomed very much, and vsifheth thee long toreign, in order that thou nuiyrft the betterfutvive to (ftablif thy royal ifsue.Beiieve what J write cometb from mytrue hearte's affeSBon. and, wif comfoiyto the woundedfpirit of thy loyal fervent. *JANE SHORE.*******#j -j- j****#*.*A fort account of Fair ROSAMONDConcubine to Kino- HENRY II.o\X/nen as King Henry rul’d this land,* * the (econd of that name;Befides the queen, he loved dear,a fair and comely dame.Mud peerlefs was he; beauty found,h. r favour and her face;A tweeter creature in the world,could never prince embrace.Her crifped locks, like threads of gold,appear’d to each man’s fight,Her comely eyes like orient pea.l,did cad a heavenly light.The blood within her chr .itai cheeks;did fuch a colour drive,As tho’ the liily and the rofe.( 23 )e'Fair Rofamond, Fair Rofamond,her came was cnlled fo,I “To whom dame Eleanor oar Queec,was known a detdly foe.IThe kiiig therefore, for her defence,againil the furious queen,At Woodliock builded fuch a bower,the like was never feen.f'Mofl curioufly that bower was buik,of Hone and timber ftrcrg,i| An hundred and fifty doors,did to this bower belong.!And they lo cunningly contriv’dwith turnings round about,i That none without a clye or thread.,could t liter in or out.I Now fcr his love and lady's fske,who was both fair and brght.The keeping of this bower he gave,unto a valiant Knight.ii But fortune that d;es tfien frown,where it before did fmile,f The king’s delight, the lady’s jny,full fccn fire did beguile.'2 For why. the king’s ungracious fun,wh m he did high advance,i1, Againll his Eiher railed wars,within the realms < f France.But ■< et before cur grscb us king,yhe Ergliih land forf < k,Of i.v faniond his lady fair,his lafi farewcl he touU."( 24 )Teen faid, Sir Thomas, whom I trad,to be my love’s defence ;Be cartful of my gallant role,when I am parted hence.And here withal he fetch’d a figh,as tho’ his heart would break,And llofamond, for very grief,n^t one plain word Could fpeak.And at their partfug well they might,in heart be grieved f re.After that day Fair liofaniond,the king did fee no more.But nothing could this furious queen,therewith apneafed be,The cup of deadly p nf-n llrong,which file held on her knee.She gave this comely dome to drink,who took it from her hand.And from her bended knees arofe,and on her feet did iUnd.When calling up her eyes to heav’n,ihe did f r mercy call,And drinking up the poifon flrong,fhe loll her life with all.Her oedy then they did entomb,when life, was lied away,At Wo- dllock, near to Oxford townas may be feen this day.F I N l S.r*LA