Witty and EntertainingEXPLOITSOF! - George Buchanan,COMMONLY CALLED,The King’s Fool.THEWitty ExploitsorMr. GEORGE BUCHANAN. oooooooS^cooooo—Mr. GEORGE BUCHANAN wasa Scotfman born, and though of meanparentage, made great progrefs in learning;As for his underitanding and ready-wit, heexceeded all men then alive in that age,that ev$r propofed queftions to him. Hewas fervant or teacher to King James VI.of Scotland, and one of his privy counfel-lors, but a&ed publicly as his fool.I. Ome dav an airy young nobleman Iwent into the Ring’s garden to pull a flower Ifor a \oung lady whom he fancied: George!followed at a difiance; fo, when the youngman found a flower to his pleafure, hewould not pull it himfclf, but that he mightfind it again, without any further fearching,he covered it with his hat, and went awayfor his fweetheart. No fooner was he gone,but up goes George, lifts his hat, pubs theflower, then eafes himfelf on the fpot, andcovers it with the hat again, and away hegoes. In comes the young mar, leadinghis fweetheart to pull the flower below the)hat; but as Toon as he lifted the hat, andfaw what was below it, he looked like^a fool. The Lady flew in a pafficn, ofl:flic went, and never would countenancehim any more. The young man, beingfadly vexed at the aiTront done to himbv Gee rge, fent him a challenge to fight him,appointing day and place where they wereto meet. Being to fight on horfeback,George gets an did llift horfe, and for har-nafling, covers him about with blown blad¬ders, with a fmall Hone in each, withouteither fword or fpear ; and a-way to the fieldhe goes, where the duel was appointed*—So, when George faw his enemy comingagainlt him, all in glittering armour.'armedwith fword and fpear, he rode up to himwith all the fpeed his horfe could carry him,when the .fmall Hones in the bladders, withwhich his horle was all covered over, madefuch a terrible nolle, that the gentleman's. fine gilding vvou!d not Hand the battle, butran away, and threw his mafter to theground; which cauied all he fpe&ators tolaugh, and Ly, the gentleman was morefool than George. The gentleman, then,being enraged at this.Second affront, wouldfight with George on foot; but his friendsperluaded him, that it woul be no honourfor him to fight and kill the King's foql,and far lefs to be killed by the fool: Sothey were both advifed to agree; but the( 4 )gentleman would try another exploit withGeorge, for to have it faid he was ftill theclevereft man, to hold him a jumping-beutpublicly the next day. With all my heart,fays George, and we will end in and aboutwhere we began ; they not knowing hismeaning in this. The place and hour beingfet, where they were to meet next morning,George, in the night, caufed a deep pit tobe made, and the earth of it carried away;then filled it up with dung from a privy,and covered it over with a green turf, fijthat it might not be known by the furround.ing ground. According to promife, the/both met in the morning againft: the sp-pointed time: Now George being the ole ellman, and by them counted the greateft fool,the youflg man permitted him tojump firft,which he according to order performed,and jumpet within a foot of the place wherethe ground was faifified. Then, the jroungman feeing ttds, made his performance withthe greatefi airs,' and all Iris might, fo thathe jumped a foot farther than George, butto his oxters among clean dung! Whereatthe whole multitude of fpe&ators cried outwith huzzas and laughter. Now, faysGeerge, I told you we would end in andabout where we began, and that is inclean dirt.( 5 )2. One time, after this, the King rndhis Court was going into the country,and they would have George to ride beforethem in the fool’s drefs; whereunto hefeemed unwilling, but it being the King’spleafure, he was obliged fo fubmit. SoGeorge was mounted upon an old hcrfe,wuh a pair of old riven boots, the, heelshanging down, and a palmer coat pa'chedall over with pi&ures of divers kinds.—George rode before them in this pollure,which caufed great laughter and divtrlion,until they came to an inn, where theyalighted to dine;- and in the time they wereat dinner, George went into the ftables,and with a knife cut all their hcrfels chafts,not fore, but fo as they might bleed. So,as ibon as dinner was over, and they weremounted on their horfes agairi, Georgeriding before them as ufual, in his palmercoat and old boots, they began to maketheir game of him : Then George turnedabout fuddenly, clapping his hands, witha loud laughter! The King alked him,what made him laugh fo ? Laugh, faysGeorge, how can I but laugh, when hcries „cannot hold their peace? Omy Sovereign,fays he, don't you fee how your horfeshave all rent their chafts laughing at myold boots ? Then every man looking at hishorie’s mouth, they were all in a rageagainfl George. The King cauied him todifmonnt dircftiy, snd -charged him fieverto let Ifim fee his face on E-Gglifh ground.Nov/ George knowing that nothing couldreconcile the King at this time, lie came toScotland, where ha cafcfed make him a pairof great beets, and put a quantity of Scot-tilh earth in each of them, and eff he letsfor London, to fee the King once more.He hearing that the King and his Courtwere to pafs through a country village,George places fitrnft-If in an old window,,snd fees out ids bare back fide to the Kingand his Court as they paiTed by. The King,being greatly amazed to fee fuah an unufualhonour done to him, was curious to knowthe performer; fo he called unto htm, alkinghhri to come downu and fmding.it to beGeorge, Sir, lays the King, did not I chargeyou never to let me lee your face again iTnie, my Sovereign, fays George, for whichcan re I let you fee my a—fe. Ay but, faystheK’-ng, you v/as never tocome onEnglilhgfound ayain. Neither I did, fays George,pulling off his boots before the King, behold,my Sovereign, it is alt' Scots earth I ftandupon-. The King and his Court being fodiverted with this merrv joke, George wasadmitted again to the King’s favour.3. After this, there arofe a debate betwixtthe King and Che Queen about votes in theParliament ;, aa the King had two votes*{ t )tWr Q^-.een would i.-avs one, a;.d ..ou. ineeds be a Parliamenter. or no peace witl;-out the preferment T in matter was iul -mitted to George bv the Kinc ; fo it wasagreed among the P.irh am elite rs t at theQ^ieen Ihould be admitted into Par Ha meritfor a day : And accordingly fire came, andwas received with all the honour and con¬gratulations which were due and becomingher high llation : But before any matterof confequence' Was brought to the board,George Veated himfelf hard by the Queen’sfeat; all being fiient. he refe up very quick/and lifted up one of his legs, and then gavea great f—t ! which fet tire whole houib,a-!aughing; whereat the Queen was greatlyeffonded, erving, Go take the rogue andhang hint. To which George anfwered,A fine Parliarpenter indeed, to hang a martfor a iiniefs in Sr miry, and that’s af—t.The Queen biing St much enraged at thisaffront put on her firft appearance in Parlia¬ment, went off in a paffion, and never wouldcountenance them any more. But yet tobe revenged on George, fhe would nevergive the King reft till he delivered upGeorgeinto her hsnds, to be at her pleafure ; whichthe King accordingly commanded to bedone, knowing that George would refeuehimfelf by fome intrigue or other. No-fooner war, he delivered into her hands,to be at her drpofa!.- but he was yidged by!( 8 )her Mules, \vho pronounced his doom,which was as follows : As he had affronlcdtii? Qieen among fo great an cquipa/ge,who ought to he jioaoured in chief, andabove all women in the nation, thru hefhould be fioned to death by the hands ofwomen. his time being come, thathe was to die, according to their appoint,he was taken into a park, where a greatnumber of wom»n was waiting, with theiraprons fall of ficr.es, to fall upon him,-andput him to death, according to the Queer/sappointment.—oooo—0000—Jf/s Speech to his Executioners.Tfere’s a/emale band, with bags of fiones,To kill a man for rumple groans.Pm clean of rapine, blood ancf thefts,Goqld.I convert my farts to rifts.7Since I the fir ft for farting dje,Ciofe up the place from whence thev ftyjTo commit my crime, I think ye’ll fcarce.If orce you. do cork up your arfe.And now fince women (tones do carry,Men need not in the world tarry.Judge if fuch women be challe complete,.With forty (tones between their feet.But fince his fo,.ye will come on,The greateft whore throw' the firft (tone-Lo )When he had cnd^d with thefe words,The greateil iirhore throw the firft ftone,”every one p:U it to another to cad the firftftone; but knewing they woul-d attain thecharailer of a whore for fo doing, they allrefufed, till the dying hour was pall, andthen he took aproteil againft them, andby that means gained his life. After this,he was admitted to the Qyeen’s favour andprefence, attending the Court as formerly’.4. The French King, wilhing to picka quarrel with England, fent a letter tothe King, defiring it to be read before theParliament-: The writing Was as follows.Will I come? Wiil I dome? Will 1 come?This letter being read before the King andhis Courtiers, they all concluded that theFrench King defigned to invade England.Therefore they wrote a letter, on purpofeto lend th him again, upbraiding nim withthe breach of peace, and putting him inmind of the Eft treaty. This letter beingread over before the King and his Nobles,they all rondefoended that it fhould be fentas an r.nfwir. But George, Hulling, and.fhaking his head; laid,• Many men, many minds;Who knows jvhat he defigns ?i •) tThen tlrey rilced George, what he tliOugh.tthe Frei:ch King meant by fuch a letter:To which he anfv/ered: I i'uypofe he wantsan invitation t-o come over to dinner, andthen go back in a friendly manner; butyou are going to charge him with a breachof peace, before he has given a Sgnal of war.His letter is indeed dark and myilical, butfend him an anfw-er accordingly. Now,George being ordered to write an anfwer,he did fo as follows^ “ And ye ccm*. Andye come, And ye come.” This being fentto the French King, 1m admired it beyondexpreffion, faying. It was an anfwer morevaliant and daring than be expected. — Sothe enmity he intended was extinguilhed,and turned into love.5. It happened that a malignant partyIn Scotland fent up a great fpokeftiian tothe King and Parliament, for the reducingof the Church: Qeorge hearing of hiscoming, went and met him on the bridge;and the falutation . that he gave him, wasthe cutting eft his head, and throwing itover the bridge ! Then he run to the Kingwith ail his might, fulling down before him,and pleading moil heartily fur a pardon,or without it he was a dead man. . TheKing moll ferioi.il / aiketl’George, w hat bebad done now2 To which he anfwtred.He had only thrown the Scots b/fhop’s hatrr r - —t II)•ever the bridge. Which made the Kingto laugh, to hear him alk pardon for fucha fmalt fault. But he h*d no fooner gotthe pardon fealed by the King’s hand, thanhe faid, Indeed, my Sovereign, I threw hishr^t over the bridge, but his head was in it.O Geordy, Geordy ! fays the King, thouwilt never give over till thou be hanged.■6- A Nobleman in England agreed withthe King, how to put a trick upon George,to try his manly courage, in fending him:to a certain houfe for a bag of money.—■On his way home thro’ St. James’s Park,they can fed a flurdy fellow to go and befetthe way upon him, and tales the money:'he being armed with fword and piftol, came 'up brifkly, and attacked George with thefswords. You, Sir, deliver what money youhave, or you are a dead man! To whichGeorge anfwered, Sir, I have money indeed,'but his not my own, and therefore Tmloath to pa-t with it; nivertbeleiS, fines1Tnt not armed as you are, to exchangeblows for it, you fhall have it; but prayvdo me the favour as to fire your pinol*thro’ the flap of my cloak, that the owners-^may fee I have been in danger of my life,'before I parted with the money,- which he.'accordingly performed. No fuoher had beiired it, than George whips put his hangecfrom below his clo^k,' and with on? ItroU?'7 . O O ■, {f ,i 12 )cut off his right hand, wherein he held hisfword, and th-: hand fell to the ground;but George lifted is hand, and carried itto trie King. No loaner did he come be¬fore them, but they afked him, faying,Well, George did you met with any bodyto trouble you by the way ? None, faid he,but one fellow, who was going to take themoney from me; but I made him give mehis hand he would not do the like again.You did, fays the fellow’s mailer: Yes Idid, fays George, let work bear witnels,throwing down the fellow’s hand on thetable before them all.y. Now this lafl: exploit of George’s,caufed many of the Engl fh to hate him;and, among the reft, a young noblemanfell a-jocking of George, faying, he wouldbe as famous a champion for Scotland asever Sir William Wallace was. Ay, ay,fays George, William Wallace was a braveman in his time. True, indeed, fays theother, but when he came to London, wedid him all manner of juftice, and for thehonour of the Scots, we have his effigy inour fhit-houfes to this very day. Do younot know the reafon of that, fays George ?No, I don’t, fays he: Well, I’ll tell you,fays George, lie was fuch a terror to theEnglifhmen when he was alive, that a fightof hiir. yet makes them be flute themlelves.^ { 13 )The Englifh took this anfwer as a grestaffr mt, and forthwith caufed Wallace’spicture to be taken out of that place.8. There was a young Englifn girl fellin love with a Scotfman, and petitioned himfeveral times to marry her, but he refufed;and out of revenge thereof, fhe went to aJullice, and fwore a rape againft him, whichis death by the law. George hearing this,went into the prifori where the young manwas, and inftru&ed him how to behavebefore the Judge. So in the time of thetrial, George came in, while the Judge wascrying to the but never 2. word hecould get him tc anfwer, to tell whether hewas guilty 04* not. After the Jultice hadgiven him over to be deaf and dumb, othersfell a-fhouting in his ears, but never a wordhe could fpeak. Then the Judge perceiv¬ing George, called him, faying, George,do you know what is the matter with thisman? Yes I do, very well, fays George.What is it? fays the Judge. Why, faysGeorge, the woman made fuch a noife andcrying when he was ravifhing her, it hasput the poor man qinte deaf, l alfure you.Is it ib? fays the Jullice. No, no, faysthe woman, my Lord Juflice, you maybelieve me, I lay as‘mute as a lamb, andnever fpoke a word all 'the time. Verywell confeffed, laid the Jo dice, and youli^( 14 )have fworn a rape upon him! Take thewt' re to prifon, and let the poor man goabout his bufinefs, and fo it is ended.9. Geobg . happened one time to be incompany with a bifliop, when they fell todifpute about education. George blaikedthe bifiiop remarkably, and he owned hewas worfled. Then one of the companyaddrefled himfelf to George in thefe words.Thou Scot, faid he, fhculd not have leftthy country. For whati fays Georg-e.BecauTe thou haft carried all the wifdomthat is in it thither with thee. No, no,fays George,, the fhepherds in Scotland willdifpute with any bifliop in London, andexceed them very far in education. Thehifliops then took this as an affront, butfeveral noblemen affirmed it to be as theScot had faid. Bates were laid thereon,and three of the bifliops were then chofen,and fent away to Scotland, to difpute withthe fliepherds. accompanied with Ceveralothers, who were to bear witnef? of whatthey heard between them. 'Now, Georgeobferving the way they, went, immediatelytook another road, and was in ocptlandbefore them. He.then made acquaintancewith a ihepherd cn the border, whofe pa;-ture day by the way-fids wnere tne biim pswere to pai^; and there he mouatco aimfthin a fliepherd’s drefs: and .when he faw .the( 15 )bllbops appear, he conveyed his flock tothe road-fide, and fell a-chan ing at a Latinballad. One of the bithcps, to raife adifpute, afked George in French, Whato’clock it was? To which George anfweredin Hebrew, It is direftly about the time ofthe day it was yefterday at this time.—Another afked him in Greek, What country¬man he was ? To which he enfwered inFlemifh, If you knew that, you would beas wife as myfelf. The third aflced hirain Dutch, Where was you educated? Towhich be anfwered in Earfe, Herding myfheep, between this place and Lochaber.—This they defired him to explain in Englilh,which he immediately did. Now, faid they,one to another, We need not proceed anyfurther. What, fays George, are youbutchers? I’ll fell you a few iheep. Tothis they made no tmfwer, but went awayihamefullv, and laid, they believed the Scotsbad been through all the rations in the worldfor their education, or the davil had teachtdthem. After that George had ended thedifpute with 'the1 bifbops, he Urips off hisfhepherd’s drefh. an'd up through Englandwith all the haile imaginable, fo that hearrived at the place from whence they fetout, three days before them, and went everyday enquiring if they were come, fo thathe might not be iufpccled. Now, upontheir arrival, all that were concerned in( 16 )the matter, and many more, came crowding ;to hear the news of tae Scottifh fliepherds.No fooner had the three gentlemen declaredwlut had pad between the bilhops and thefliepherds, whom they found on the Scotsborder, but the old bilhop made anfwer:And do you think, that a fliepherd couldaofwer queftions fo readily ? It has beennone elfe but the devil; for the Scots minir-fters could pot dp it, they are but ignorantof fuch matters, a parcel of beardlefs boys.Then George thought it was high time totake fpeech in hand. Well, my LordBilhop, fays George, you call the Scotsminifters a parcel of ignorant beardlefs boy;you have a great long beard yourfelf, myLord BHhop, and if grace were- meafuredby beards, you Bifhops and the goats willhave it all, and that will be quite averfeto Scripture. What, fays the Bilhop, areyou a Scot ? Yes, fays George, I am.Well, fays the Bifnop, and what is thedifference between a Scot and a Sot ?—»Nothing at prefect, fays George, but thebreadth of the table, (tuere being a tablebetwixt the Bilhop and George). So theBilhop went off in a high palaon, whi'ethe whole company were Uke to !pht theirjaws with laughter.; N f10. Tuexe vyas once an Act ot Parlia¬ment in Scoi.la.ncl, for the beudit of mur-( i7 )derers, by which any perfon who committedmurder, if they forfeited five hundred merks,which went under the name of Kinboot,becaufe fo much of this fine went to themurdered perfon’s nearest relations, as theprice of blood, the murderer got a remit.Now, George knowing this to be contraryto Mofes’s laws, was very much grievedto fee fo many pardons fealed with theKing’s hand for murder, almoft one everyweek; it being fo ufual for the King tofubfcribe them, that he would not readthem, nor enquire what they were : Forwhich caufe George writes a right to thecrown, and fent it in to the King to befubfcribed; which he actually did, and,netter looking what it wac, returned it toGeorge. No Iboner had George received it,but he goes to the King, and told him thatit was not proper for him now to be fitting| there. Whereat the King, greatly amazed,.ftarted up! Then George, in a great hafle,[• fet hinifelf down in the King’s chair, andi declared himfelf King, faying, You whoi was King, muft be my fool, for I am now; the wiled man. The King at this was> greatly offended, until George (hewed himhis feal and fuperfcription; but, from thatday forth, the King took care what hefubfcribed. — The next pardon that cametto be fealed by the King, was to a gentle¬man who had killed two men before, andC *8 3fiad gotten pardons for them by money-'This being the third, the King appeared:,very i'erious when looking over the petition.George handing by, alked his Majelly whathe was going to feal now ? To w hich heanfwered. It is a remit for a man who haskilled three men at fundry times; I gavehim two remits before. O, fays George,he has killed but one man. And who killedthe other two? fays the King. You did,fays George; for if you had given him!juflute when he killed the firit, lie wouldhave killed' no more. When the Kingheard thefe words, He threw down the pen,,and declared that fuch an y£t, to fave amurderer, fhould be null ever after.1 ’i •ix. Osa day George being in w?ant of :money, gets a pick and a fpade, and falls-ja-digging at a corner of die King’s palace;,w hich the King perceiving from his window,call’d out, What are you wanting there ??Are you going to undermine my houfe,and make it fall? No, my Sovereign, faidGeorge ; but it is verily reported;that there 1is plenty of money about this houfe, and Iintend to dig for it: I cannot find any withinthe houfe, then furelv it mufl be below it.O George, laid the King, that is a craveafter the new faihion : What money you .:want Til order it for you. — O'then, my 7Sovereign, fays George, 111 dig no more.'ISJ( 19 )12 On a time the Frencch King defire#the King of Sctnland to fend him three menef different qualities; the fiHt was to bea mighty flrong man ; the lecond, a verywife map ; and the third a great fool: Sothat there might be none in all France tomatch them. Accordingly there were twomen ehofen, the one a ftrocg man, and theother a wife man, but George was to a£fcthe fool; neverthelefs he was the teacherof the other two. So out they fet for France,and on thetvay,George aflcedtheftrong man.What will you anfwer the French King,if he idk if you be a llrong man ? Why, Pilfay I am. But, fays George, he may geta flronper man than you, who may kill you,and affront your country. What l^.all Ifay then ? faid the ftrong man. Why, faysGeorge, tell him you are lirong enough un¬tried. Then fays George to the wife man.And what will you lay to the King, wherrKe ?.fks if you are a wife man ? Why, fayshe, I'll tell hira P am, and anfwer all the^ueiiions I know, \fery well, lavs George,and what if he afk you what you do notknow r Then you’ll affront your country,and be looked upon as a greater fool thanme. What fhall I anfwer then ? faid thewile man. Why, fa\s George, tell him,He is only a'wife man that can take careof himielf; and I fhall come in after you,and take care of you altogether. As loon( 20 )as they arrived in France, the King fent fortthem to come to his palace, that he mightrtry their abilities. The ftrong man was1firfl called for, and in he went. Then theiKing alked him if he was a ftrong man?To which he anfwered. O King. I am ftrongfienough untried. Very well, faid the KingJAfter him the wife man was called in ; andithe King afked him, if he was a wife man ?!To which he anfwered, He is only a wifeoman that can take care of himfelf. Veryt;well,, fays the King. , On which Georgespufhsd pufhed up the door, and in he went:with loud laughter, and pifles directly inrhis Majefty’s face, which blinded both histeyes,' and fet the whole Court in amaze !!Now, now, faid the King, it is true enough twhat the wife man laid ; for if I had taken icare of myfelf, I would not have been piffed 1upon by the Scots fool. O ho! fays George,,fools al ways ftrive to' make fools of others, ,but wife men make fools of themfelves.— IThe King being greatly affronted by this,charged them forthwith to go home, for hewanted no more of Scotland’s ftrength,vvifdom or foil}'.,13. George being one night in company 'with fome Englifu noblemen, in prefence iof the King, who began to deraonltfate how ^fine a place England was, both for beautiful 1buildings and fruitful fields. One of the!( *1 )company faid, he knew a place in it, where,if they cropped the grafs even with theground at night, and laid down a Crownpiece on it, before a hundred witneffes, thenext morning you would not know whereto find it. That may feem very ftrangefome, fays George, but it is no myftery tome, knowing there might be fome who fawthe piece laid down, ready enough to comeand take it up before to-morrow: But,fays George, I know a place in the weft ofScotland, where, if you woukhtether a horfeat night, againft the next' morning youwould not fee him. What a pox will takehim away? fays the nobleman. Only fuchpeople, fays George, as would take awayyour crown piece. O! fays the nobleman,you know what I mean.14. Then, favs George, you ta’k muchoftowms you have in yoor country ; 1 knowthree towns in poor Scotland, for propertiesyou have none furh. Pray, fays the noble¬man, what are thefe properties ? Why, faysGeorge, I know one town, wnere there isa hundred bone-bridges in it; another town,where, tho* a man commit murder, treafcn,or owes never fo much money, if he run tothat town, and get in below a ftair, no lawnor juftice can harm him. The noblemanoffered immediately to Hake a hundredpounds there were no fuch towns in all'( )Earops, befides in Scotland. The wholecompany irrre amazed, and delired Georgeto tell but the names of thofe towns, forthey wrould fearch it out, and know thetruth of what he aflerted. So George toldthem the names of the towns, and two menwere fent off to Scotland to fee them.—•The firfl was Duddingflone, near Edinburgh,where they came and enqnired for the bone-bridges there; the people {hewed them Hepsalmolt between every door and the road, iof the fculls of fheep-heads, which theyufed as Itepping Hones. The fecond was ,a little country village between Stirling andPerth, called Auchterardoch, where there jis a large ftrand runs through the middle :of the town, and almoft at every door there !is a long Hock or Hone laid over the Hrand, I,whereupon the^ pafs to their oppolite neigh- •hours ; and when a flood came, thev would Jlift their wooden bridges, in cafe they fhouldbe carried away with the dream, and thefethev called their draw-bridges. The thirdwas a village near Cambuibarron, whichthey paffed through ; but faw not a flair init all, from the one end to the other.—So they returned to England, and told whatmanner of bone and draw bridges they faw, ,and that they faw no Hair in all that town,for al man to run under.i1( 23 )15. As George was on the road travel¬ling to London* the weather- being veryrainy atid cold, he alighted at an inn t«refrefh and warm hirnfelf, but the fire-fidewas fo furrounded with' people, he couldfcarce fee the fire : George finding he couldnot get near the fire, calls for the hofller,and orders him to give his horfe at the doorhalf a peck of oyfters. You mean oats, Sir,fays the hoftler. No, no, fays George, itis oyflers; and bafe is that horfe that willnot eat oyllers. The people at the firehearing this, ftarted all up, and fan to thedoor to fee the horfe eating oyfiers, andGeorge thereby got room to fit down beforethe fire, with a covered table before him.In a little time they all came back again,one by one, faring, Sir, your horfe will eatno oyfiers. lyiH he not! fays George;. he is either too full, or too faucy : You maybring ihem in, and I will eat them niyfelf.Now, George being far advanced in.years,and finding his natural firength and fiare ofhealth daily decaving, he petitioned KingJames to allow him to vilii his friends inScotland, and the land of his nativity, whic*he moft willingly granted (not thinking oisdefign:' was never to return): For .Georgehad a great defire to refign hi^Jbul andbreath in that place of the world where hereceived them, and that his body and bones( -4 )might be laid among his anceftors, which,at that time, was counted a great honour.So, accordingly, George came to the parilhof Buchanan, in the Weft of Scotland;where he vifited all hk friends and relationsbefore his death: During which time theKing fent feveral mefiages for him to re¬turn with all the hafte he could; but heabfolutely refufed, telling him, that he wouldnever fee him again; which grieved the kingvery much to hear him exprefs himfelf inthat manner. After this, the King fent hima letter, threatening him very fharply, if hedid not appear in London in the fpace oftwenty days, he would fend his lyon heralds,with a party, who would bring him whetherhe would or not. Unto which, as an anfwer,George fent him a famous letter of admoni¬tion, both anent the government of his king¬doms, and the well-being of his foul, whichcaufed the king weep very bitterly, whenhe read it over; which concluded with thefollowing verfe:My honour’d liege and fovereigr King;Of your boalling great I dread n thing;On your feud & f,m ur I’ll fairly venture:Or that day I’ll be where few kings enter*FINIS.