§ STORYS OPBEWITCHED FIDDLEH,PERILOUS SITUATION,AKD;JOHN HETHERINGTON’S DREAM,mbGLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.‘-.AKXK*JJ.. K^<KXr<}C~*v„v>o<>G*C5<MM)0((0()o<)CKMMvx>Cv»Mi-.~r-THEBEWITCHED FIDDLER.Matthew WilMaht was the best fiddler hi1 hn city of Hesdin. There was no rilhoyefor ten miles round, where they would haveenjoyed their dancing', if any one butMatthew Wilmart fingered the violin forthem. He was a personage, consequently,)f no little importance. He sat down withthe relations at marriage feasts; and the"iride, who waited upon the guests duringthe repast, according to a custom of theliountry, was always sure to give the titbitsj*> Matthew. When he opened his lips, alljistened vo him, for there was nobody betterit teb . = _ a story or singing a song,i ■ fio winter night, there was a marriageR ^hf'iu. The dancing had been continuedF/ rt late hour, and it was already past in id-ight, when Matthew threw his violin overp shoulder, and announced his attention orpiking leave.—They used every effort toPrevail upon him to remain.1/ father Matthew,’ they say, ‘theviiid is north-east, and it is cold enoit(split the vet)' stones. The forest4din, which you must pass through, has a baname. It is haunted by wolves and robbersnot to mention the sorcerers who meet therei I have a good goblet of wine in mesaid the old man, 4 a fine fur cloak on mshoulders, and a good iron club in my handWith all these, I defy the cold, wolves, anrobbers. As to wizards and devils, ifmeet any, they shall dance to the sound tmy violin. They will tell me if the muscians in hell play a better fiddle than olMatthew Wilmart.’In finishing these words, which made tiyoung people laugh, and the old men shalltheir heads in displeasure, he enveloped binself in his cloak, and set out at a firm pacon the path which led through the forest tHesdin.He had not been more than a quarter (an hour on his way, when the sky, just befoiblue and starry, was suddenly covered witan immense cloud. The darkness becarlfrightful. Our fiddler began to regret tinhe refused a good bed at Auflin. Butwas too late to retrace his steps. Besideafter his bravadoes, they would not faillaugh at him for his want of courage. I|continued his course. To add to his chagThhe discovered that he had lost the path.What was to be done. To advance w.only to loose his way still more effectual!s5To wrap himself in his cloak and lie down.it the foot of a tree was altogether unsafe;me wolves would inevitably make a mealif him; though, if he escaped them he wouldperish of cold. His two hands resting onpis staff, he remained some minutes in apainful anxiety, when a light suddenly ap¬peared in the distance. c It comes from someivood-cutters’ cottage,’ said he, c God bepraised!’ He was on the point of directingpis steps towards it, but it had vanished.The anger of the fiddler knew no bounds.He struck the earth with his staff, and utteredhe most shocking blasphemies. His lipsjvere still pronouncing them, when thelighlre-appeared.It was with the greatest difficulty, andinter much time, that Matthew arrived atthe spot from which the light had first pro¬ceeded. His surprise was extreme on finding[here a magnificent chateau of which hepad never before heard. Brilliant musicwas resounding from all parts of it, and thelancers who were passing every momentbefore the windows, cast their dark and rapidshadows upon the curtains, which a reddishtight rendered transparent,i He went round and round this immensepudding several times to find an entrance,put in vain. He had given it up in despair,when an old man suddenly appeared and6sounded a horn. A drawbridge whwMatthew had not before observed, was irmediately let down, and our fiddler, foliosing the old man, entered the mansion.He was astonished to find it filled by ;inconceivable multitude of people. Sonwere taking part in a splendid repast; othewere playing at games of chance; but tlgreatest number were dancing.Matthew advanced with boldness to a m;of elevated stature, whom he recognisedmaster of the mansion, by the manner whiihe gave out his orders, and the respect whitwas generally paid to him. ‘My lagoverner,’ said he to him. ‘ I am a poor fiddlijwho has been lost in the woods. Condesceito allow me to pass the night in a corneryour mansion, and I will depart to-morreat break of day.’ The personage whoMatthew addressed answered only withsmile, and a sign of assent. At the orderhis master, a page took the violin from tjfiddler, and attached it to one of the goldtnails which glittered among' the rich draeries in the hall. Whilst occupied with tl:service, the page grinned with an inferngrin, and the part of the instrument whi«his fingers touched grew black as if it h.been burned.Matthew now began to walk about on isides and examine the strange whe7ie found himself, but he in vain endeavoured:o recognise any of the strange people by,vhom he. was surrounded. Every time thatle fixed his eyes upon any one of them, afort of thin mist shrouded his face, and baf-Red the old man’s curiosity. While he wasseeking to account for this strange circum¬stance, he perceived a bass-viol hanging upjf such exquisite beauty that he thought heshould like to try his hand upon it, and dis¬play his skill to the other fiddlers. Raisingds eyes to find the staircase leading to theirjgallery, what was his affright to recogniseKmong them old Barnabas MatassPrt, whopad been dead 30 years, and had givenpirn his first lessons on the violin. ‘ HolyVirgin,’he cried, chave pity on me!’ Atthe same moment, musicians, dancers, andchateau, all disappeared before his eyes.‘ On the next day, the inhabitants of Auffin,who more prudent than the fiddler, haddelayed their departure till morning, foundthe old man extended at length at the footof a gibbet, with a white fiddlestick in hishand.‘Father Matthews,’ says one of them,‘has chosen rather a queer place to sleep in.’‘ And a still queerer nail to hang his fiddleon,’ answered another, ‘his violin and boware both strung on the toe of a hangedman.afraid that the 'arcrss would (1cold ?’ added a third. ‘ The old man h,covered his dry shoulders with his own cloaf4 He is a prudent fellow, old fattyMatthew,* said a fourth, who was tryingbring the old musician to life; 4 why he carrietwo fiddles with him, so that if he broke othe should have another.'When Matthew returned to himself by dii}f the labours of the good folks about binhe attributed every thing to the cold, ar.took care not to say a single word of the iifernal visions which had appeared to him.But on entering his cottage, he carefidfflexamined the instrument of which he habecome possessed in so strange a mariner, jthrill of horror was the result of this examiration. The fiddle was nothing more thathe bone of a dead man, wrought with exquisite skill; and he read upon its rich silveornaments the name of an inhabitant cHesdin, who passed there as a sorcerer ana wizard.When the evening shades gathered, hrepaired to the house of this ill-lam eiman :—4 Friend,* said he, with a low salutation4 there is a fiddle which belongs to you, ibelieve. I have accidently found it, amthought I would bring it back to you.His neighbour grew pale at these words9md stood for a few moments in astonishmentvithout uttering’ a word.£ Oh! oh! master Matthew,’ he at lengthnattered, £ you have discovered strangehings during the past night, and a wordrom you might do me much mischief.’t ‘ God forbid, then, friend, that I shoulditter it.’[ £ You are a brave man, Matthew, but youbust keep your tongue well. If they burnine alive as they certainly will if they findj'ut half of what you know, it will go hardfrith you friend Matthew/; Matthew rose to go, but the owner of thetrange fiddle stopped him, and, putting’ hisnouth to his ear, muttered in a low’ voice—Neighbour, tell me your enemies; I willend a plague among their cattle this verylight; or I will devise some means to getmu entirely rid of them.’: c I have no enemies, neighbour, and Godbrbid that I should wish ill to any one.’i ‘ In what manner, then, can I be usefulo you ?’(In nothing,’ replied our fiddler, who wasin a hurry to be gone; 4 in nothing, neigh¬bour. 1 consider myself lucky in being ableio restore to you so fine a fiddle.’4 A beautiful fiddle to be sure. But,neighbour Matthew, I must make you somenresent/10; Give him this purse : take out of it tmuch as you will, and as often as you wil,and there will yet be six livres left in it.’These words are spoken by a man of sinster aspect, who certainly was not in tlilsorcerer’s cabinet when Matthew arrivecHow had he entered ? It was impossible tcomprehend, for the doors had all bee.carefully closed by the master of the housethat none might hear his conversation witMatthew.4 is some of the devil’s handywork, criethe fiddler, i and I will not risk my salvation by accepting- it.’‘ It is a talisman,’ replied the other, c italisman which a Christian can use withoufear.’ In pronouncing the word Christiana shudder ran over all his limbs.• ‘If this purse is the work of the devilthen I am damned,’ added he with a bitte’smile.Matthew, half convinced, yielded to tintern petition of becoming- possessor of such itreasure.He had recourse so frequently to the wrdnderful purse, that he became in a short time:master of a pretty house, and lived insplendid a style as the richest citizen itHesdin.Every day were feasts and fetes withou?end.—lie continued however to play at wed-11Idiug's, but he had a good mule of a gentlestep(to ride on, and a varlet to carry his iiddle.This new manner of life of the fiddler'occasioned a great deal of astonishment inIthe town of Hesdin, and gave rise to variousjsurmises. The most general belief was that[Matthew had discovered a hidden treasure.Now Matthew had four nephews, rakish[young men, whom he had never assisted onRecount of their ill conduct. They said onepay among themselves, 1 Our uncle Matthewpas become rich, and we shall inherit all hiswealth.’ 1 hey understood each other, andthey all went out with weapons, to watchfor Matthew at a crossway in the woods,Where they knew he would pass that night.I 1 he fiddler could not avoid his fate.Tour arrows pierced the old man, while hismore fortunate varlet escaped.The four brothers, without thinking onhis witness of their crime, ran towardshe carcass for the purpose of despoiling it.They were prevented by a man of sinisteraspect, who rushed upon the body, took fromt a little purse, and ran away crying,j Thus much good do my gifts !’ A bitterfimile followed these words.. While the assassins were standing dumbvith horror, they were suddenly surroundedby the sheriff and other officers of justice.Matthew’s varlet had met them in his flight,12and returned with them to arrest the assas¬sins of his master.Justice was not slow in following the.proper proof of the crime. The sheriff had;them all hung on the tree behind whichthey concealed themselves to commit tiesmurder. This circumstance has given thespot the name which it still bears.—TheCrossway Or The Four Brothers.A PERILOUS SITUATION.I sat in the cuddy, watching1 the storm,till past eight o’clock, when a flash whichilluminated the whole hemisphere, and wasaccompanied with loud cracking, and atremendous noise, struck the ship, and killed,upon the spot, two of the seamen on the fore¬castle. I ran to the door to ascertain the eflectsof the stroke, and heard the seccond mate,who was between decks, cry out, 4 Fire inthe hold! fire bellow !’ The cargo had takenfire from the electric fluid. The scene whichfollowed exceeds all description ; it was onethat can never be forgotten by any who wit¬nessed it.In a moment all hands were on deck;buckets were supplied in abundance; thepumps were manned and leaked, that thewater might be discharged on the burningcargo; passengers and crew were all on thealert: I threw off my boatcloak, which Ihad procured by rushing below through thesmoke into my cabin, and assisted at thepumps. When the hatches were taken off,to allow of water being poured into the hold,flames and clouds of smoke issued forth as14from a furnace, increasing' every instant inheat and density. It was soon found tli,all exertion was in vain—the vessel mu •perish!From the pumps we ran to the boats : ticgig hung over the larboard quarter, so as Ui>e lowered in a moment; but we shouldhave lost its valuable services, had not a gen¬tleman threatened to send a bullet throughthe head of the carpenter, who, insane withterror had brought a hatchet to cut the ropesand drop it at once into the sea. The yawl,,a larger boat, was our great difficulty; itwas turned, keel upwards, over the longboat, to serve as a roof to the live stockkept in the latter. Many attempts weremade, in vain, to raise it from its situation;the long boat was already on fbfe, by theflames bursting from the main hold. I.climbed into it (without feeling that, in doingso; 1 broke my shins severely) to give myassistance ; and when we were just ready todespair, the yawl eased and rose, no oneknew how, and was over the side and in the,water, more quickly, the sailors said, thanthey had ever before seen it done.Captain Dacre had already affirmed, inanswer to my inquires, that the two boatscould not carry all the ship’s company, pas¬sengers and crew : and under other circum-1stances,'we should not have dared to try15them; but the trial must now be made.The two ladies, one of whom had to behurried from her bed, where she had retiredfor the night, were first put safely into theyawl; some other passengers and myself,with part of the crew, followed, and ourweight sank it nearly to the water’s edge;the captain and others entered the smallerboat and sufficiently filled it, leaving thevessel with honourable reluctance; while thefirst mate, Mr Ibbetson, gallantly remainedon board to the last, suggesting the bestarrangements, and assisting to hand to .usany article that could be got at the moment,that might be useful to us in the extremeperils we were about to encounter.Many of the party having retired to theirhammocks before the electric fluid struckthe vessel, were half naked; but were sup¬plied with trowsers and jackets, by thoseseamen who had been on the watch; who,in consequence of the heavy rain, had easedthemselves in double or treble their usualquantity of clothing. My own dress wasmerely a nankeen jacket and trowsers, ashirt and neckcloth. I had lost my hat inassisting to get out the boat.We happily succeeded in bringing awaytwo compasses from the binnacle, and afew cnndels from the cuddy table, one ofthem lighted; one bottle of wine and ano-16thcr of porter were handed to us, with thetable-cloth and a knife, which proved veryuseful; but the fire raged so fiercely in thebody of the vessel, that neither bread nor ■water could be come at.It was now about nine o’clock: the rainpoured in torrents : the lightning continuedto stream from one side of the heavens tothe other, one moment dazzling us by itsglare, and the next leaving us in darkness,relieved only by the red flames of the conflagration, from which we were trying to escape.Our first object was to get clear of thevessel, lest she should-explode and overwhelmus. But to our great distress we discoveredthat the yawl had no rudder, and that in thetwo boats we had only three oars, all exer¬tions to obtain more from the ship having-proved unsuccessful. From the gig, whichhad a rudder, they gave us a rope’s end tokeep us in tow; and by means of a fewspars, found at the bottom of the boat, weassisted in moving ourselves slowly throughthe water. Providentially the sea was verystill, or our boats would have swamped andwe must have perished. There was alsovery little wind, but it sometimes changed, |and assisted by the prevailing current, urgedforward the burning ship; for the sails,being drenched with rain, did not easilytake fire. Our situation, therefore, was for17some time exceedingly perilous. The vesselneared us more than once^ and seemed tothreaten to involve us in its own destruction.The cargo, consisting chiefly of hams,cheeses, ale, porter, spirits, and other thingsj equally combustible, burned with violenceand rapidity, and the flames rose to anamazing height. ,We succeeded in encreasing the distancebetween us and the vessel; directing ourcourse towards land, by help of the com¬passes, which we could see by the light ofthe candles we had with us. About teno’clock, we saw the masts go overboard, andthe sides of the vessel seemed to he burntdown to the water’s edge. The spectaclewas awfully grand, even contemplated ab¬stractedly from a recollection of our owncircumstances. The destruction, by fire, otthe animals on board, dogs, sheep, &c., atanother time would have excited our deepestcommisseration, but, at present, the totalloss of property, the awfully sudden death ofthe seamen, our own narrow escape, and thegreat probabilities, even yet, that we should| never again see the light of day, or set ourfeet on solid ground, seemed to absord our11 faculties and feelings: for some time the, silence was scarcely broken, and I doubt not,that many, like myself, were engaged inthoughts most suitable to immortal beings18on the brink of eternity—in thankfulnessand in prayer.The number of persons in the two boatswas forty-eight; and all, with the excep--tion of the two ladies, who, I must observe,bore these awful circumstances with extra¬ordinary fortitude, took it in turns to work'at the oars and paddles. After some time,,’to our great relief, the rain ceased; thelabour of bailing water from the boats wasconsiderably diminished; we hailed eachother frequently, during the night, and thehonest tars, true ‘hearts of oak/ occasionally:gave a simultaneous ‘hurra/ to cheer eachother, and to keep up our spirits.The Tanjore must have risen in thewater, as it gradually consumed; we sawit burning' the whole night, and at day¬break could distinguish a column of smokearising from it, which, however, soon-ceased, and we saw and heard no more of’our favourite ship. When the sun rose, we,;could clearly discern laud a-head; the sightof it filled us with grateful joy and nervedJOHN HETHERINGTON’SDREAM*In a certain small town in the south ofScotland there lived, about three yeai;s ago,a very respectable tailor, of the name ofJohn Hetherington—that is to say, Johnwore well with the world; but, like toomany of his craft, he was sorely addictedto cabbaging. Not a coat could he make,not a pair of trowsers could he cut out, nota waistcoat could he stitch up, but he musthave a patch of this, that, and t’other, wereit for no other purpose but just to serve as abit of a memorial. One very warm evening,towards the end of August, 1826, John hadgone to bed rather earlier than usual, butnot without having laid in a very good shareof a very tasty Welsh rabbit, which saidrabbit being composed of about a pound oftough cheese, of course furnished the poortailor after he had fairly tumbled over intothe land of Nod, with something of a verycurious Welsh rabbit vision, it suddenlystruck him that this life, with all its cares andanxieties, was over with him; that thefinishing' stitch had been put to the greatwork of life, and the thread of his existencecut through. In the other world, to hismisfortune, he found thing's not moving socomfortably as he would have wished, andthe Old Gentleman with the short hornsand the long tail, rigged out in his best suitof black, was the first friend he forgatheredwith after passing the border. £ There’s afine morning,’ said the wily old dog, £ howdo you find yourself after long travel?’4 No that wed,’ stammered out the halfdead son of a goose, 4 no that weel, andI dinna think, all things considered, it wouldbenefit me much to he found in such com¬pany—no offence to your Reverence,’ as hesaw his new friend’s collar rise, 4 no offenceto your Reverence, I trust, but if I may •be so bold, I would thank you to tell me thereason of my being here; and, above all,who’s to be thankit for the honour of an in¬troduction to your Reverence ?’ 4 That youwill know shortly, friend—nay, John Hether-ington, for you see I know you;’ and takinga large parcel from below his left arm, hecommenced to unroll it, and to the astonish¬ment of poor John, unfolded a long sheetof patchwork, in which were found scrapsof every hue—a web of many colours—allneatly stitched together; and in the middle,by way of a set off, a large bit of most cx-*T821i cellent blue cloth, which had been cabbagedthat very morning from a prime piece whichI he had got into his hands for the purpose ofmaking a marriage coat for his neighbour,I the blacksmith. ‘Was all this stuff gotfairly and honestly, good man,’ said the OldGentleman, with a sneer quite worthy ofBeelzebub. ‘ I suppose you will be able toI recognise some of these old bits; what thinkyou now of that piece in the middle Avhichyour eyes are fixed on—cabbaged no fartherback than this morning? Come along,my old boy, come along; you are a trueson of your old father, I see, and I willfurnish you with as warm winter quarters asyou ever enjoyed when you was half stewedwith your old maiden-aunt, at the top offifteen pair of stairs in the High Street ofEdinburgh, when serving your apprentice¬ship with Dick Mouleypouches.’ A coldsweet broke over the poor tailor, and he feltas if he could have sunk snugly into theearth, if it had only had the goodness toopen at that moment for his especial accom¬modation, when he saw the long bony armstretched out, with its sharp eag'le claws, toclutch him : he made a sharp bolt back, andgiving vent to his feelings in a loud andlong howl, which rung horribly in his ears•Jong after opening his eyes, he found himselfsprawling in the middle of his wooden floor,%■22with allthe bedclothes tumbled above him.It was the first breaRing- out of a fine morn¬ing'; the sun was rising, and all naturelooked fresh and fair; but poor John was at'the point of death, with sheer bodily fear andtrembling, so that to get to bed again, andto sleep, would have been martyrdom; there¬fore he huddled on his clothes, and walkedout ‘ to snuff the caller air,’ and muse overhis wonderful dream. The more he thoughtof it, the more he saw the necessity of re¬forming his mode of life; and, before fin¬ishing his stroll, he was an altered man, andhad made up his mind never more to cabbagean inch of cloth; and, by walking cir¬cumspect and just, he trusted that his pastoffences might be wiped out, and that the:wonderful web of many colours should nomore be brought up as evidence against him.To make him the more secure in the event'of forgetfulness in the hour of temptation,his foreman was let into the great secret,and had orders at all times to rub up his re-memberance when there was any thing goodgoing, which he used to do by the laconicphrase of—4 Master, mind the sheet!’A year passed over, and the terror of lutdream being yet fresh in his memory, John’transactions were strictly honest, lie e>> u-cut out with somewhat more cmsideraT^ease, and had lost a good deal tht kiM-.,. * tT23rutting out the sly piece at the cornerBut, alas! for the stability of all humanresolutions, our friend was sorely tempted,and how he stood we shall soon see. He hadgot to hand a beautiful piece of red cloth,lor what purpose I know not, whether forthe coat of a field officer, or the back of afox hunter, but a prime piece of cloth thatwas; he turned it over to this side, and backh) that, viewed it in all lights and shades,rubbed it against the grain, and found itfaultless; he had never seen such a finepiece of cloth before; scissors had neverbefore cut such immaculate stuff. He fixedhis eye wistfully on a tempting corner, lookedup, and his foreman John was staringfirmly in his face : he had read his thoughts,rMaster, mind the sheet!’ solemnly ejac-iulated John. {I’m just swithering, John;U’m just swithering: now when I mind,their w asna a piece of red cloth in all thesheet; and mair by token, there was a bitgap at one of the corners; now, I’m justthinking, since it maun be that all these bit|)dds and ends are to be evidence against meivhen I come to the lang count, it would bepetter to snick a bit aff the corner here; andnthat you see, John, will fill all deficiencies,find mak the sheet, since it maun appearagainst me, evidence, John, without apaw!’24ANECDOTE.Doug-al Graham, author of a well knownmetrical history of the rebellion in 1745,being candidate for the place of town bell¬man in the city of Glasgow, was desired tocall,u Gude fresh herrings new come in al;he Broomielaw,” (it not being the season)f herrings), Dougal added,“ But, indeed, my friends, it’s a’ a blaeflum,“ For the herrings no catch’d, an’ the boat’s no come,”which procured for Dougal the situation.Dougal was a kind of Scotch TEsop, hehad a large humph on one of his shoulders,and like his prototype, had wit. Calling’ inthe street of the Gallogate, opposite theSaracen’s Head Inn, where several officersof the gallant 42d regiment were dining,;at the close of the American war, some ofwhom knew Dougal before they went abroad,opening the window, called out, “ What’sthat you’ve got on your back, Dougal?”Knowing what the regiment suffered atBunker’s Hill, Dougal replied, “ It’sBunker’s Hill, do you choose to mount ?”FINIS.1-