THENEWLetter-Writer,CONTAINING A VARIETY OFForms of Letters,ONBUSINESS, OUT ¥ AND FRIENDSHIP,LOVE, COURTSHIP & MARRIAGE;TO WHICH ARE ADDED,Superfcrif lions and Addrefies for Letters,to Perfons of every Station.F A K P K :IRIlsTED A!*D .JOHKSTCrotv*THE NEWLETTER - WRITER*^ —O >SOCOt?COOOOQ —ON DUTY AND FRIENDSHIP.LETTER I.From a Son at School to bis Father*Honoured Sir, !I am greatly obliged to you for allyouf favours ; all I have to hope is, thatthe progress I make in ray learning willbe no difagreeable return for the fame.Gratitude, duty, and a view of futureadvantages, all confptre to make methoroughly fenfible how much I oughtto labour for ray o vn improvement, andyoui fitisfa&ion, and to fhew myfelfiypen all occafions,Your moll obedient,1'and ever dutiful Sort,ROBERT RElDllLETTER II.Frcvi a Ycutb at School to hit Parents.Hone red Father and Mother,Your kind Letter of the 24th inlhnt,I received in due time, and, (non after,i the things you therein mentioned, bythe Carrier, for which I return you my1 fincere thinks. They came very opt| portunely for my occafions. I hope fconto improve myielf at fchool, though I! own it feems a little hard and irkfomei to me as yet; but my maher gives meI great encouragement, and affures me,IT will foon get the better of the little: difficulties that almoft every boy meets|i with at firft, and then i! will he a perf?-£t: plesfu-e inftesd of a tsfk, and altogether! as pleafant and eafy as it is now irkfomei and hard.My humble duty tg yourfelves : and: I beg the trvorr of you to give my kind! love to my brothers and fillers; and re¬member me to all my friends ana ac¬quaintance; which is at prefent all IromYour very dutiful and obedient Son,CHARLES GOODENUUGHtm( 4 )LETTER III.Jin Excuse to Fatter or Hotter*Honoured Sir, or Mother,I am informed, and it gives me great.Concern, that yo .have heard an ill re¬port of me, which, I fuppofq, was raifedby fome of my fcijool-felfows. who eitherenvy my happinefs, or. by aggravating im;- faults, would be theoght to Lem lei'scriminal tnemLlves; though I muil own ;I .have b_-en a little too remiis m myfohooi-Lvjfmefs, and am now fev:fib e I jlhave loft, in iome mcafure, my lime and jl• credit thereby ; but, by my future dili- |>gence. I hop- foon to recover both: ]:and, to coiivince you that I pay a fri«£t ,regard to all your commands, whichI arc bound to, as well in gratitude asdutv. ard hope 1 fiiall qver h>ave- leave,wuh great r.'th, to fub'cribe. myrdf ;Yvtir ruoft dutifu' SdDvnu I AM COLLINS. o-—-LETTER iV.IfFrcm an A^pr -ntice to bis Fatter.h 'Honoured S:r,I know it will be a great fatisL&ioato you and my cVar mother ' to ''ear ithat I go on very happily in my bufmefs:: ; good wifhes and cxpf flationS) and theIn indalgence which you have alw ays fhewnil rae. There is fuch good order in thet family, as well on my miflrefs s part ason my mai'er’s, that every fervant. asveil as I, knows his duty, and does itr with pleafure. S * much evennefs. fe-i datenefs, and regularity is obfefved ina: all they enjoin or expert, that it is im-1 poffible but it ilioul-d be lb. My mailerij is an hone ft, worthy man; everybodyii fjiteaks veil of him. My n iilrefs is alit chearful, fvveet tempered woman, «r,dill Tither heals*- breaches than rives them :• and the children, after fuch examples.and fillers. Who can but love luclia family ? I wifli, when It fliall plrafei i 'God to put me in fuch a flation, that, j -   -      then, by God’s blefiing, l flail be sslie!tv it will be the cortinuarice ofours» «I behave to us all like ones’s own brotherhappy as they are, and ns you, Sir, and» my dear mother, hrve cl ways been.—i If any thing can make me happier thanI am, or continue to me my prefent fe-( 6 )and my yood mother’s prayers, for,honoured Sir, and Madam,Your very dutiful Son. O—O—Q—O LETTER V.To a Toting I.ndy. cautioning her cgainftkeeping Company with a Gentlemancf a bad Cbarailer.Dear Niece,The fmcere love agd *ffe£licfu whichI now have for your indulgent father,sand evtr had for your virtuous mother,not long fince deceafed, together withth« tender regard I haye for your futurehappi'.efs and welfare, have prevailed©n me to inform you, rather by letterthan by word of mouth, that the t« wnrings of your unguarded conduit, andthe too great freedom that you take withMr. Tripit. You have been feen withhim (if fame lies not in the fide boxescf both theatres, at the Blue-Coat Hos¬pital on a Sunday night, and afterwardsat a certain Tavern, not a mile fromthence, which is a house (as I have beencredibly informed) of no good repute.You have b th. moreover, been seenat Ranelagh Assembly, Vauxhall Gar¬dens ; and what is ftiU more flagrant,i 7 )»t Cupcr’s Frie-Works. Drn’t im»gvTitr*t Kiece, tf'*t I am in the k<.fl pfeji-dice^,3 or speak out of any priva:e pitj it; butJet me tell you, yonr familiarity withhim, gives me no small concern, as hischarafter is none of the bell; attxl as hehas a£ted in the mod ungenerous man¬ner by two or thr^e very virtuous youngladies of my acquaintance, who enter¬tained a too favourable opinion ot hishonour, ’Tis poffible, as you have nogrest expeftation from your relations,and he has 'zn annuity (as is reported)> of 2col, a.vear left him by his uncle,that you may be tempted to imagine hisaddrefles an offer to your advantage.—•’Tis much to be queftioned, however,whether his intentions are fincere; for,notwithOanding- all the fair promises hemay pcfllhly make you, I have heardit whispered that he is privately engaged•to a rich, old, doattng Lady, not farfrom Hackney, Besid s, admitting itto be true, that he is really entitled tothe annuity above-mentioned, jet it istoo well known that he is deeply In debt;that he lives beyond his income, andhas very little, if any regard for his re-jj putation. In fhort, not to mince the|j matter, he is a perfect libertine, and is*! ever boafling of favours from our weakSix, whose fondness and frailty are the( 8 )conlUnt topics of hisraiflery and ridicule.All things, therefore, duly confiiered letme prevail on you, dear Niece to avoidhis company as you would a mad mm;for, nctwkbftanding, I ilill think youvirtuous, yet your good name ma\ beirreparably lo!b, by such open afts ofimprudence. As I have no other motivebut an unaflkfted zeal for •your mtereltand welfare, I flatter myself you’ll puta favourable cortftru<5licn on the l.b.rtyhere taken, by, Your aff.flionate Friend & Aunt.LETTER VIJLchice from, a lather to bis Sen newe-ntered in Eusinefs.Dear Robin,As vou are now entering the world,and will probably have very confiderabledealings in your bufiness, the frequentoccasion you will h.-ve lor advice, fromothers, will make you d firous ot Ting¬ling out, among your moll intimate ac¬quaintance,'one or two, whom you wouldview in the light of friends. In thechoice of these, your utinofl care andcaution will be neceiTiry > for, by amiflake here, you can scarcely conceive|i I the fatal efF-tls you may hereafter ex-»' iperience. Wtierefore it will be proper-:13for you to make a judgment of thosei (who are fk to be your advisers, by the<: ;condu£t they have observed in their owin-affairs, and the reputation they bear inthe world; for he who ha?, by hk own) J indiscretions undone himself, is much;if.tter to be set up as a landmark fora prudent mariner to fliun his courfes,than an example to follow. Old age is,- generally flow and heavy, youth head-i ilrong and precipitant; but there areijjij old men who are full of vivacity, andI young men replete with discretion;iiii which maker, me rather point out the::: conduct than the age of the persons withj;i which you fnould ciioose to aflbciate;! xhough, afcer all, it is. a neverfailing'•]; g'Kid fign to me of prudence ^nd virtuei in a young man, when ids seniors choosethis company, and he delights in theirs,if Let your endeavours therefore be, at all! adventures, to consort yourself with mencf sobriety, good sense and virtue; forthe droverb is an unerring one that says..“ A man is known by the co pany hekeeps.” If such men yoe can fioyle out,while.you improve by iheir conversation,;; you will benefit by their advice. And■J be sure remember one Ling, that tho’jj you muff be frank and unreserved m( ia )Slivering your sentiments, when occafi-ons offer, yet that yon be much readierto hear than to speak; far to this purposeit has been fignificantly observed, thatNature has given man two ears, andbut one tongue. Lay in therefore, by :observation and modelt filence, sucha liore of ideas, that you may, at theirtime of life, make no worse figure thanthey do : and endeavour to benefit your-aelf rather by other peopled ills thanyOur own. How mull those young menexpose themselves to the contempt andridicule of tfieir seniors, who havingseen little or nothing of the world, arecontinually fhutting out, by open mouthsand closed ears, all poflibility of inftruc-tion ; and making vain the principal endof conversation, which is improvement!A filent young man makes, generally,a wise old one; and never fails of beingrespedled by the bed and moft prudentmen. When, therefore, you come amongGrangers, hear every one speak beforeyou deliver your own sentiments; bythis means you will have opportunityto judge of the merit and capacities o£your company, and 'ivoid expofing your-,self, as I have known v.amy do, by {bool;-,ing out bally and ineonfiderare b.>lts, ;which they would have been glad to,rcca!; when, perhaps, a, fileot genius inf ■ ' ( 11 5.liicompiny has burfl out upon them wuhisuch observations, as have firuck con-jsciousness and fhame into the frowardi speaker, if he has not been quite iuseh-: ifible of inward reproach.I have thrown together, as they oc-i curred, a few thoughts, which maysuffice for the present, to fhew my careand concern for your welfare. I hopeyou will constantly, from time to time,.’ communicate to me whatever you fhall( think worthy of my notice, or in wh;c!imy advice may be of use to you; for IIf have no pleasure in this life, equal tod that which the happiness of my childrenffives me; and of this you may bei| allured, for I am, and ever mult be,Your affectionate Father. x— —LETTER VII.1 From a Father to a Son. on bis negVgence• in bis. affairs.Q Dear Jemmy,You cinnot imagine what a concerni j your carelelTnefs and indifferent jnanage-t|j meat of your affairs gives me. Remiff-Snefs is inexculable in all men, in nonefo much as a man of bufinefs, the foulj of which is indullry, diligence, and the( 12 )utmoft punctuality. Let ms beg of youto (hake off the idle habits you have con¬tracted; quit unprofitable company, andtmfeafonable recreation} and apply toyour Compting-houf'e with diligence.—It may not yet be too late to retrieveyour affairs. InfpeCt, therefore, yourgains, and caft up what proportion theybear to your expences; and then foewhich of the latter you ean, and whichyou cannot contract. Conftler, thatwhea once a man fuffers himfelf to gobaci^.vard in the world, it muff be anuncommon fpirit of induffry that retrieveshim and puts him forward again.Reflect, I befeech yon, before it betoo late, upon the inconveniencies whichan impoverished trader is put to, for theremainder of his life, which, too, mayhappen to be the prime part of it; theindignities he is likely to fuffer fromthofe whofc money he has unthinkinglyfquandered; tiie con temp, he will meetwith from ail, not ex:ep.ing the idlecompanions of his folly ; the injnfticehe does his family, in depriving Illschil Iren, not only of the power of nifingtuemfelves, but of living tolerabH; andHo*, on cont.ary. from b.-imr bornto creditabls expeditions, he links themirtto t.'ie loweff clsffes of mankind, niexpjfes them' to the moff dangerouaMIIIi1)\i;IIH'iii,: iI•jtjK( 13 )temptations. What bas rot fuch a fathet;to anfwer for ? And all this for the. fakeof indulging h’tltfelf in an idle, cssreitfs,and thongqtlefs habit, that ct.imot aflordthe lead iatisf»£tion be) end the prefenthour, if in that, and which mull be at-tend*d with deep rem.orfe,when becomesto rsfktt. Think fat ionlly of thefe thingsand in time rdolve on fuch a courfe asmay br ng credit to yourfelf, jullice toall you deal with, peace and pleafure toyour mind, comfort to your family ; andwhich will give, a: the fame time, thehighell fetltfaclion toYour careful and loving Father.— 0-——LETTER VIII.To a Friend, on ccccf.on (f bis tiotcr.fBering bis l etters,Lear Sir,It is fo long fince I had the favour ofa line from you, that 1 am under greatappreherfior.s in relation of your health:and welfare. 1 beg you, Sir, to renewto me the pleafnre you ufed to give meirvour orreipondence; for I have writtenthree letters to you before this, towhkhI have received no anfwer, and a>r notcor.!c:ous c.r hiving any v.ay ddcb'iged( 14 )you. If I hive, I will mofl willinglyilk your pardon; for nobody can beKjore ’than I am,Your affi&ionite and faithfulFriend and Servant*'LEXTER IX.j&nfwer to the foregoing Letter*Dear Sir,You have not, cannot difoblige toe ;but I have greatly d fobliged myfelf, int Civ own faultry remiffnefs: I cannotaccount for it as I ought. To lav I hadbu fine Is one time, company another, wasdillant from home a third, will be butpoor excufes, for not anfwenng one ofyour kind letters in four long months.I therefore ingenuoufl/ take fhame tomyfelf, and promife future amendment ;and that nothing lhall ever, while I amable to hold a pen, make me guilty ofthe like negle£t to a Fiend I love.—•Forgive me then, my good, my kind,my generous friend, and believe me tobe everYours, &c.( 15 )O NLOVE, COURTSHIP, and MARRIAGE.LETTER I.From a Toung Man juft done •otitb bitApprenticeship) to bis Sweetheart*Dear Sally,I have been long in love whh you»I but was afraid to tell you. When I gowith you to Bagnigge, or Sadlers-Wells*I am almofi like a fool, and altogethertil unfit for company; I think of you all day,i; and at night I dream of my dear Silly.I I atn well fettled in work, and my wagesii are Eighteen Shillings per week. You13 and I cin live on that, and I fhal' bringit ft home untouched on Saturday evening.I will not go to anvjaiehoufe, but as focni as my work is done, return home to my:> dearly beloved Sally. I hope, my dear,f; you will not be angry, for I am really' in love I cannot b happy unlefs youare mine. I wss afraid to mention thisI to you, but if you will leave an anfweri at my lodgings, I will meet you next!j S'inda*-, afur dinner, at the Shepherdi and Shepherdefs, when we will takeHow happy (hall I be to hear from mycharmer 1 But a thoufand times more fo,to think that (he will be mine !!!♦I am, my Dear, ybur real Lover.LETTER II.j—*000—000—( 1? )To barf; for there is Will Copper, thebrrzier, and Jack Trotter, the a!s-man,who are both home-bringing htibmds,•and have every day a hot joint of meat,arc! a pot of beer, 1 knew not yet whatI ihall do.; but as 1 like a walk to Horn-fey, 1 will meet you aMhe Shepherd andShepherdefs on Sunday after dinner, andthen v.q will talk more of the matter.I am, dear Jack,Your molt humble Servant.*LETTER III.From a refpecljul Lover to bis Miftrefs*1 D-ar Madam,I have long flrucrgled with the modrf honourable ana refy^dtful p-ffion -that•v ever filled' the heart of man : I haveo! often tried to reveal it perfonally, aso; ofen in this way, but never, till row,-could prevail upon my fears and doubts.c:i -But I cannot longer flruggle with a fe-v.< cret that has given me io much torture' ; to keep and yet, hitherto, more than. have endeavoured to reveal it. I never'i entertain the hope to fee you, w ithouti rapture ; but, when I have that pleafure,.. ii inlletd of being animated as I ouglr.( *9 51 am utterly confounded; What canthis he o ving to, but a diffidence in my-felf, and an exalted opinion of yourworthyiefs ? And is not this one Oror.gtoken of ardent love ? Yet, if it be, howVarious is the tormenting paffion in itsoperations! Some it infpires with cou¬rage, whi 1ft others it deprives of allnecelfary confidence. I can only affureyou. Mrdam, that the heart of mannever conceived a ftronger or l-ncererpaffion than mine for you. If my re¬verence for you is the crime, I am fureit has been my fufficient punifhra'ent.—- (I need not fay, my dcfigns and motivesare honourable ; who dare approach fomuch virmous excellen e, with a fup- ;pofition that fuch an affurance is necef-fary ? What my fortune is. is very wellknown; and lam ready to ftand theteft of the ftri&elt enquiry. Cordefcend,Madam, to embolden my refpedtful paf¬fion with one favourable line, that ifwhat I here profels, and hope furtherto have an opportunity to affure you of,be found to be unquefiionable truth, the*my humble addrefs will not be quite un-occep'eble to you ; and thus you willfor ever oblige, dear Madam, J JYour aftecl'onate admirer,x . fand devoted Servant*Sir,7If modcfiy be the greateft glory ©fcur fcx, furely it cannot be blame¬worthy in yours. For my own part,I mull think it the moll amiable qualityeither man or woman can pellets. Norcan there be, in my opinion, = true re-I Iptft, where there is not a dillider.ee of' one’s own merit, and an high opinionof the perfon’s we elleem. To fay more1 on this occalion, would little become me;to fay leis, would look as if I knew nothow to pay that regard to model! merit,which mcdefl merit on’y deferves.—I You,. Sir, bell knew jour own heart;and if j?GU are fltjCere ancj generous,1rcceive as you ought, this franknefs' *ronj> Your humble Servant.LETTER V.Front a Young Tradesman, lately enteredinto Business to bis Father, asking biscenfent to marry,'1 Honoured Sir,Yo u know that it is now above a yearlince I entered into bufinefs for myfelf,and findir.g it daily increaftng, I am ob-lijed to look cut for au agreeable partneril mean a Wife.) There is a very worthyfamily in this neighbourhood, with whomX have been fome time acquainted; theyare in good circumfiances, and havea daughter, an amiable young woman,greatly efieemed by all who know her:I have paid my addrtffes to her, andlikewife obtained the parents’ coufent,rn condition that it is agreeable to you. jI would not do any thing of that naturewithout your confent; but I hope that, jiv’porr the flrifteft enquiry, you will find ,her fuch a perfon, that you will not haveany objection to a match fo advantage- <ous. I, on every occ^fion, endeavourto afl with the greateil prudence, cor- |;fifient with the inles you w-as pleafed 'to prtfcribo for my conduct. Her pa¬rents arc to give me five hundred poundson the day of marriage, if the eventfliould happen to take place; and as .• 'they have no other children, the whole Pof their property becomes ours at their !death. In whatever ii^ht you are pleafei. |to confider this, I flial! abide by your r'"direction, and your anfwer in the meal jhtime is impa'.ienv'y txpt&ed,(>1 )letter VI.Ike Father's Answer.My dear Son,I received your Letter, and my reafonfor cot anfwering you feoner, is, that itbeing an affair of great importance, i waswilling to proceed ther in with the ut-mc.ll caution. I wrote to Mr. Johnfon,my Attorney in New Inn, defiring himto enquire co cerning the family youdtfire to be allied with; and I am gladto hear his account does not differ fromyour own. I hope you do not thinkthat I would defire to fee you one mo¬ment unhat py. Your reafcps for en'er-ing into the marriage-llate, are everyway fatisfa&ory, and I am phd to hearthat the per fun on whom you have placedpour fbons is fo deftrvkig. Whenyou have fused the wedding-day, 1 wiltcome to London, to be prelect at thecertmony, ard fpend a tew days withmy old friends. I hope you will con¬tinue t' at;en yo:r bufmtfs with theI fame diliptrce you have hitlerto done;and if you fhculd live to an old age, youwill fi en be -.ible to retire from tradevi ft horour, botu to ycurlelf and yourfanuly. I am, dear Son- Vour bfftilionate Lather.4.letter VII.From ayounvWoman. a Servant in London,to her Parents^ defiring tbeir confentto ber marriage*Honoured Father and Mother,I have fent this to inform you, thatone Mr. Wood, a young man, a cabinet-maker, has paid his addrefles to me, andnow offers me marriage: I told himI would do nothing without your confent,and therefore have fent this by Mr. Jones, ,your neighbour, who called on me, and, Iwill infsrm you more particularly of his ,circurnftances. The young man hasbeen fet up in bufinefs about two years,and is very regular and lober. Moltpeople in the neighbourhood dteem him,and his bufinefs is daily increafing.— SI think I could live extremely happywith him, but do notchoo ’e to give himmy promife until I have firfi heard fromyou. Whatever anftrer you fend, (hallbe obeyed b;Dear Child,We received your Letter by Mr.Jones*and the chancier he gives of the youngLETTER VIII.The Parents'* Anfacr*( ^3 )man is io agreeable, that we have noobjection to your marryirg him; beggingthat you will ferioufly co«fider the dutiesof that important ilate, before it is toolate to repent. Confider well with your-felf, that according to your conduct toeach other, you mull be either happy ormuferable as long as you live. Thereare many occurrences in life in whichthe bell of men’s tempers may be ri ffl'd,on account of lofies or difappointments;if your hulband Ihould at any time be fo,endeavour to make him as eafy as pof-fible. Be carefulof every thing he com¬mits to your keeping; and neverto appear fuperior to your ftation, foralthough your circumllances 'may beeafy, yet, while in trade, you will finda continual want of money for manydifferent purpofes. It is poffible feme ofyour more polite neighbours may de«fpife you for a while, but they will beforced, in the end, to acknowledge thatyour condudl was confident with theduties of a married date. Bur, above all,remember your duty to God, and thenyou may chearfully look for a bleffingon veur honed endeavours. May Goddirtd you in every th.ng for the Left,is the fincere prayer ofYour loving Father and mother.( MSUPERSCRIPTIONSandADDRESSESFORL E T TEES.To the King’s AToH; Excellent Mijeftjr,'^ire, or, «; phaft your Mjjrfoy.To his Gr ice the Duke of B—'fy Lordor, fifty it pUcfc your Gracgyor, Tour Grace.To the Tioft Noble, the Mv'qais of H.fify Lord MirquiSy Tour LordJijip.To the Right II >n the Earl of H.—fify Lord, Tour LordJHip.To Sir J» nes II. B vt. — tlo*. Sir.To the Hon. Col. P on the Hou. Ad¬miral W.—rLIon. Sir.To M j >r, or Caot. or Lieut, or En-1fign P- —Sir.Toth“ R-ver.-nd \fn. J H.—Rev. Sir.To J.G E ’qr — dr.To Mr. j. H — iVrFINIS.Falkirk—T. Job ns tony Printer.