TRUE AND GENUINEACCOUNT OFMURDOCH CUMROS,TAKEN FROM HIS OWN MOUTH,At the place of Execution in Shorthand being aPIOUS EXHORTATION[To people of all ranks to take Warning by hisUNTIMELY END,He was Executed at DumbartonON THE14th day of June, 1754.PRINTED THIS YEAR.DECLARATION or EXHORTATIONOFMURDOCH CURRIELate servant with Stonefield of Levenside,Being sentenced to Death for theBreaking of his master’s house.He was brought from the prison of Dumbar.n, about two o’clock, surrounded with a strongtard of armed men, he walked with more cour-e than ever any man was seen to do in his con-tion, until he came to the place of punishment,e first sung the 23rd Psalm from beginning toi, and after prayer was ended he addressedmself to the spectators in the following manner :•Tou all came here to-day to look on me a pooriful boy, my time has been short indeed in this>rld. Alas! it has been short, and spent in foband madness: and now you look all upon mvse as desperate, and this my untimely end to bethout honor. But I bless the great God that?ated me, that it is my lot to die here this day,d that I did not die when going on in my sinfulurse of wickedness, as many have done, andve not got so much as three minutes warning,fore they were hurried into eternity. And now• a heart, O for an heart to bless the Lord fo1-: time I have got since I received the senteof death, O Lord reward my benefactors in thi:place for the charitable acts towards my soul antmy body, during my imprisonment; O God forgive my enemies, this I heartily wish for, as .hope for mercy at thy hand through the merit'of thy Dear Son Jesus Christ, on whom thou arwell pleased ; O be well pleased with my soul fohis sake, for I have no righteousness but his,have no trust but in him; and now if I perish 1cit be at the feet of my Redeemer wheie never ©nperished ; O that sweet passage of God’s woreThough he slay me, yet will 1 trust in him, I semy sins more greivous in mine own eyes, andam heartily sorry for they are many, I abhor mself for my wickedness, for my ignorance and r*vengefulness of my proud haughty heart whiccaused me to return the second time to do wronto my master, who always did justice to me whicI own I did not do to him. All the reflectionhave against any, is that some person publishethat I carried false keys, which I solemnly declai1 never did, the Lord forgive them for the falshoods which they told concerning me. I ownhave been a thief in taking away some triflirthings ; and what I did in breaking into the houof my master was to be revenged of the affrothey put upon me in this place, I being whippiby the hangman. I warn all men and worn*never to give way to revenge, but rather applyGod who knows all things j I or Revenge is mi:saith the Lord, and I will repay it again. Itt e folly and madness of many, and me also, whthey have done so, and come to suffer; for wh jthpv orp asked why they did so, they will answ5the devil bade them: O! but this is a poor ex.cuse; but in my opinion it is their own wickedheart which is in them, it is the devil’s nature,but not himself ill as he is. O ! sirs never thinkof revenge, O good God bless Stonefield, hisfamily, servants, tenants, and his relations, andthis is what I never thought of saying before yes¬terday morning : now I can forgive all my ene¬mies, and look upon them as my best friends. Iwill not be angry with the rod. I know that Godis the smiter, whom he loves he corrects and chas¬tens. O ever blessed be his holy name, that hasbrought me unto this, and he will give me strengthto bear it. And now unto you who are Gentle¬men’s servants, I advise you to leave off all yoursinful practices, that almost all of you pride your¬self in, cursing, swearing, whoring, and all man¬ner of wickedness. O how heinous does that sinof taking God’s name in vain, appear unto methis day, The Lord will not hold him guiltless,that taketh his name in vain, and now if the Lordmark iniquity who can stand ; I know I had nomore than original sin, it was enough to condemnme; but the Lord has promised to cure my ig¬norance, and all my actual sins of ignorance, forsuppose I read and heard I did not believe. Andnow O God strengthen thou my belief more andmore: and as for many of you who are Gentle¬men you keep no rule in your families, you giveyour servants no instruction in a goodly manner,ye consider not that the charge of their souls areupon your heads while they are in your service,and the charge of the stranger while he is withinyour gates ; you ought also to make them remem-6her the Sabbath. But alas! few of yourselvesregard it. And it is my adviee to all servantswhatever station you are in rather break your ser¬vice than break the Lord’s day ; O it is a wound¬ing sin for the conscience of a dying man ; if youwere to look death in the face as I now do, youwould find it so. What would I do if their wasnot a promise left for such as in my condition tofly to. Yet I can say O Death where is thy sting0 Grave where is thy Victory : I have no hopebut in God’s word ; I have no trust but in JesusChrist. For righteousness of my own I havenothing but sin and iniquity ; I have enough todamn me eternally If the precious blood of Jesus Christ prevented not ; Glory to God in thehighest. There is a fountain in the house ofDavid for the inhabitants of Jerusalem for sin andfor iniquity, and I hope to be washed from allfilthiness of the flesh and spirit. And now sincetime and eternity L come, I have little more to dobut die.What I have said to one I have said to all; Ihave nothing to say either to Judge nor Jury, theLord forgive them, if they have done wrong ; butthey could not do more than what God has de¬creed. Therefore let no reflection be upon themconcerning me. Where could I run from thepresence of an all-seeing God, for Judge, Jury,Executioner, and all that surround me this day,are but instruments in his Almighty hand let himdo what he will. I will look for mercy and he isa God of mercy, and he gives liberally to themthat ask him. And again I desire not to die, till1 see that man who catched me in the street of7Dumbarton this day eight-days, when I thoughtto have made my escape from dying on the tier.He being called for came in through the crowd,being in great fear and perplexity, but he mo$tlovingly took him by the hand, and said Robert,do not be trout led ior your taking hold of mefor the Lord sent you there as a trap to hold me,I forgive you from the bottom of my heart, andI hope that the Lord will never impute it to you,his providence brought you in my way. But tryto get a sure hold of Christ, and keep him as fastas you did me in the Vennel Street of Dumbartonand in taking leave of him he kissed him threetimes, with so mild a countenance that the mostof the spectators wept and mourned ; and turninground to the multitude, he desired that none ofthem would upbraid that man for what he haddone, for I from my heart forgive him, and allthose that act his part in the least, they were buthelping me on in my journey ; therefore I lookon them as friends and not enemies. As for thekeeper of the prison, I heard that he is looked onas unfaithful to his trust, because he was in prisonwhen I broke out. 1 desired him to read a cer-tain portion of scripture out of a book, his backivas to me while looking on, because of the ad¬vantage of the light of the window ; and then Ibroke off unknown to him ; therefore he is blame-ess, and knew not of it in the least. And noway petition is, that my body may get leave to bei the place appointed for the bones to rest, andhat the good people in this place may take caref my grave, that it be not lifted. Which beingromised him, he threw off his great-coat, went*8and took the last farewell of his sister and otheracquaintances that were standing by the tree, hemounted the ladder with great courage, till hecame to the top, then he turned his face to thespectators, who were mostly in a weeping condi¬tion, and said, Sirs, do not mourn for my bodybut pray for my soul, for now is the fatal mom¬ent to go to well or woe.Then he caused the l?Oth Psalm to be sung,and after that he prayed a little with great ferven¬cy and many tears. He looked down on his sis¬ter who wept bitterly at the bottom of the ladderand lifted up his head and said, The Lord will bethy comforter and my mother also, whose heartwill be broken for what has happened me this day.He then loosed the napkin from his neck ; theExecutioner was ordered to feel his neck if anything was about it; when he understood that, heopened the neck of his shirt, and put the rope onhis naked neck, then saying, Since time is nomore here, farewell world and all that is thereinjthen pulling the cap over his face, he went overwith these words in his mouth, Into thy hands Icommit my soul Almighty God. June 14th,;1754, between the hours of 2 and 3 o’clock af¬ternoon.The like was never known in the Annals oiHistory. And for it Dumbarton lost its Gircuil )rights since that time.FINIS.