j^The Duty of redeeming the Time in evilDays, illustrated and enforced.ASERMON,; Preached at Ettrick, May 27, 1722, being the Lord'sDay immediately following the rising of the GeneralAssembly that year.BY THERev. THOMAS BOSTON,AUTHOR OF THE FOURFOLD STATE, &C.kTphesians v. 16.—Redeeming the Time, lecause the Days areEvil.KILMARNOCK:PRINTED BY S. CRAWFORD.-Lsj-aAS E R M O N.IN the preceding verse, the apostle exhorts the Ephesiansto 'ivalk circumspectly, that is, accurately, exactly, andprecisely, endeavouring in the most minute things in theirwalk to be regular and holy ; shewing withal, that truewisdom requires such exactness of lile. Our text pointsout one thing wherein their spiritual wisdom should espe.cially appear, <vi% “ Redeeming the time, because thedays are evil.,, In which words we have,1st. A duty enjoined, redeeming the time. The expressionis metaphorical, taken from merchants who wait the mar¬ket, improve the season of making gain; and if at anylime they have lost by their negligence, they bestir them-tselves to catch the season again when it offers. Timsshould we do with the time, or season of grace and good!works, the season for doing or getting good. That timeis often mispent, the reason is slipt; and xve must endea¬vour to buy it back again, by doubling our diligence inthe present time, as the traveller, who has gone too slowsthrough the day* labours to redeem the time by mendinghis pace, when it grows towards evening.2d. The reason of the duty, “ because the days areevil.” ' Not that any days are in themselves evil or qn-iucky, more than others; but that they were days whereinmuch evil fell out and was to fall out. The days ihe»apostle speaks of were evil, in respect of the gieat evilsgoing on in them among men, which piR professors in ha-ti*ard of sinning or suffering. They were ensnaring days,both in respect of principles and practices ; false doctrinewas vented by many, the resurrection was denied, justifi¬cation by iailb alone opposed, and the purity of the gos¬pel overthrown by many: scandalous practices w’ere in¬troduced • and persecution was raised in several places,and was on the .growing handThe scope and meaning of the words may be summedup in the following doctrinal note, vi%.The Duty <jf redeem'.?." the Time, See. 3Doe r. When men's lot falls in evl days, the evil of thesedays calls aloud to them to reileem time, and double their diligence,'For the illustration of this doctrine, I shall shew,I. What it is to redeem time.II. Why the evil of the days wherein men’s lot is castshould remove them to redeem time.III. Lastly, Apply the subject in an use of exhortationand of reproof.I. The first thing proposed is, to shew what it is to re¬deem time. It imports,1st. A conviction of rmspending of time, and misim-proving seasons of grace. Those who will never set them¬selves so redeem time, who are not duly convinced of theirsquandering it away, selling it off, and not enriching them¬selves with the price. We have seen better days than nowthey are ; glorious days of/thi Son of man have been inScotland, in purity, plenty, and peace. But may not thelooking back to the improvement made of them, fill uswith convictions of misimprovement ? And,(!.) How many are there, who to this day are cut ofChrist, and have no saving interest in the covenant of grace,but are “ aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, andstrangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope,and without God in the world i’’ Eph. ii. 12. If the mar¬ket of free gwice were closed, they poor souls, have as yetbought none of Christ’s wares, for as long as they havestood in the market-place.(2 ) What have ye done for God, and what have youdone for eternity, in the time which we have had l God’sglory is the end of your creation ; the work he has put inyour hand to fill up your time with, is to “ work out yourcwn salvation with fear and tremblintr,” Phil, ii 12. Yewere not set down in the world, as the leviathan in thesea, to play yourselves ; but to honour God, and see* toyour eternal salvation. Now much of that time is over.Ye have done much to advance your worldly interest, tosatisfy your lusts, to dishonour God, and to ruin your ownsouls; but what have ye done for God’s glory and yoursouls salvation ?(3.) Who of us all have done for God, what we mightA 24 The Duty of redeeming the Time,hive done, whit we hive had opportunity to havedone ! Have we not slipt many precious occasions thatmight have been improved for the honour of God ? Hasnot a vain world often cheated us and spiritual slothful¬ness cast us into a deep sleep, and an inactive frame anddisposition, while fair and promising occasions have sliptthrough our fingers ?(4.) Has any one of us got that victory over our cor¬ruptions, or made such advances in holiness of heart andlife, as are answerable to the time that we have had underthe means of grace? Have we grown up in grace, answer¬able to the years of our standing in the Lord’s vineyard ?(5.) Are ye provided for a time of trial, and furnishedfor a wilderness-journey ? If not, surely it is neither forwant of warning, nor want of time and opportunity ; butby mispending of time. A day of common calamity seemsto be making haste upon us; but are our chambers of pro¬tection provided by us to enter into ■ A darkness, a mist isarisen in the way to Zion ; are you so acquainted withthe way in the clear day, as to be capable to know theroad even in a mist ?(6.) Lastly, Are your evidences for heaven clear? Weknow not how soon we are to pass off into another world;but, alas ! it is to be feared, that many have no evidencesat all for a better world ; and that such as have, theirs arevery dark. These things may suffice to convince of mis¬pending of time; the redeeming of which imports a con¬viction of.2d- To redeem time, imports activity and application tofiur great work which we have to do in the world. Thuswe find the spouse setting herself to redeem time, Cant,iii. i, 2. “ By night on my bed I sought him whom mysoul loveth : I sought him but I found him not. 1 willrise now, and go about the city in the streets; and in thebroad ways I will seek him whom my soul lov?th ” Wemust at length bestir ourselves, shake oft' sloth, be deniedto our carnal ease, and ply our work in good earnest.Merchants wno through their own slothfulness have mis¬sed their market at a time, will dd so that they may gettheir loss made up : and Christians must do so too, who.Illustrated and enforced. 5mind to redeem their time; for there is no netting sleep-ing to heaven.Sd. It imports catching of seasons that offer themselvesagain for procuring or increasing our spiritual stock. \\ emust “ be sober, and watch unto prayer,” 1 Pet. iv\ 7.We must do as Benhadad’s servants did, 1 Kings xs. S3.“ Now the men did diligently observe whether any thingwould come from him, and did hastily catch it.” Asmen who being to go a long voyage, but have slept while.wind and tide served, and so missed the occasion of set¬ting off, will watch the first opportunity thereafter, andlay hold on it when it comes. Many a fair occasion forImmanuel’s land has been neglected ; O that at leng'hwe were wise to let no more slip 14th. Lastly, It imports improving the present time dili¬gently, as men w-ho have a great loss to make up. Thusdid the spouse. Cant. iii. 4. “ It was but a little that Ipassed from them, but I found him whom my soul loveth:1 held him, and would not let him go, until I had brought. him into my mother’s house, and into the chamber of herthat conceived me.” There is no other way of redeemingpast timtf, but by better improving the present time whileit is among our hands. We should then be rnare frequentand more fervent in spiritual erercises, carefully layingout ourselves, that the time remaining may be filled up tothe best advantage. Time is precious, let us not be lavishof it any more.II. The second head of discourse is to shew, why the.evil of the days wherein men’s lot is cast should movethem to redeem time.1st. Because it is the mispending of time and misim-proving the seasons of grace, that bring such evil days ona church or people called by the name of Christ. That isthe fixed rule of God’s dispensations towards his church,2 Chron. xv. 2, 1 The Lord is with you, while ye be withhim, and if ye seek him, he will be found cf you ; but ifye forsake him, he will forsake you.” Misimproving ofseasons of grace makes sinning times, and sinning timesmake ensnaring and sufr'ering times. And what is thereason of all the evils of our day, but unfruitfulness underA 36 > T/jc Duty tf redeeming the Time,the glorious gospel? The light has been abused, and.darh-ness therefore comes on : we have long had light withoutheat and warmth of affection, and therefore the light-itselfis on the declining hand. And it is highly reasonable, thatsmarting under mlspcnding of time we be stirred up toredeem it.2d. Because such days threaten the removal of opportu¬nities of doing and getting good as formerly, Eccl. xi. 2.“ Thou knovvest not what evil shall be upon the earth.”The Jays of Noah and Lot were evil days ; and they re¬deemed time, the one by preparing an ark timely, theother by a timely escape out of Sodom: and had they notdone so, the one had been carried away by the deluge, andthe other had perished in the flames of Sodom. Theythat will not do when they,may, may come to see thetime when they shall not have opportunity when theyv/ould. When men have no use for God’s candle set upamong them to let them see to work, he will readily takeit away, or at least it shall burn very diin. Redeem time ;for God is plainly saying to you, “ Who among you willgive ear to this? Who will hearken, and hear for the timeto come ?” Isa, xlii. 23.’ T> „ „, . ^ r.~7  - ^ * •9%jk\*** %.-i« ♦ 5 Sr? re aangerons attc* ensnaring days,and therefore people have the more heed to be on theirguard : And U they do not set thesjiselves to row againstthe stream of the day, they will be fair to be carried downthe stream'with others. Therefore our Lord says, “ Be¬cause iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall waxcold,” Matth. xxiv. 12. When a land or country is infect¬ed with the plague, everyone sees himself obliged to takemore than ordinary care about himself, lest the spreadingcontagion catch hold of him ; norv, spiritual infection inprinciples and practices are visibly spreading at this day :and we are like men in a throng, if we do not forcibly pressforward, we cannot miss to be carried off our feet, andcarried backward by the croud. The cause of truth andholiness is so fully on the field against a declining gene¬ration, that no man can stand neutral, but he must loseground to the enemy.4th. Because God is much dishonoured in such days ;and that should touch odr hearts very nearly. ’This wasTllustriled and enforced.David’s practice, Psalm cxis. 136. “ Rivers of waters rundown mine eyes; because they keep not thy law.” It bvery natural for the children of God, when they see vheirfather remarkably dishonoured, that their hearts stir withinthem, as was the case of Paul, when he was at Athens, and“ saw the city wholly given to idolatry,” Acts xvii. 16.Remarkable is the story of the dumb son of Croesus, kingof Lydia, who, seeing a soldier, when his father’s capi¬tal city, Sardis, was taken by Cyrus the Persian, ready togive the king, who he did not know, a stroke upon thehead with his scimitar, made such a violent effort and strug¬gle, out of fear and tenderness for the life of his father,that he broke the strings of his tongue, and cried out,“ Soldier, spare the life of Crossus.” The further others gofrom him, tney will endeavour to draw the nearer to him.At such a time there is a special call from Heaven, saying,“ Who i s on my side ?” And when the honour of God solies at stake, in the conspiracy of a generation against it, itis sad for men to be asleep ; nay, it is high time to awake.5. Because as redeeming of time is always seasonable, soit is in a special manner seasonable when the days are evil.There is a peculiar beauty in it to be best when others arcv/orst, to be awake when the virgins round about are slum¬bering and sleeping. God takes special notice of such jas in the ease of Noah, of whom it is said, Genesis vi._y.“ Noah was a just man, and perfect in his generations,and N lab walked with God and also in the case ofLot, of whom the apostle Peter says*, 2 Epist. ii. 7,8.“ God delivered just Lot, vexed with the filthy conversa¬tion of the wicked : for that righteous man dwellingamong them, in seeing and hearing, vexed his righteoussoul from day to day, with their unlawful deeds.” Re¬deem time in these evil days, so shall ye outshoot Satanin his own bow, and turn the cannon upon him, who en¬deavours to carry you away with the stream. To takeoccasion from good to do evil is devilish, but to take oc¬casion from evil to do good is divine.6th. Because mens’ own interest lies in it. They thatare awake in a way of duty while others sleep shall rest ina way of privilege when the peace of others shall be bro¬ken, Hah. hi. 16.—  “ I trembled in myself, that I8 The Duty of redeeming the Time,might rest in the day of trouble,” To stand at a distancefrom sinful courses, in a sinning time, is the way to safetyand comfort in a suffering time. Hence is the commis.sion from the Lord in favour of his people, Ezek- ix. 4.“ Go through the midst of the city, through the midst ofJerusalem, and set a mark upon the foreheads of men thatsigh, and that cry for all the aboflainations that be donein the midst thereof.” It is pleasing to the flesh to gowith the multitude, in a time of God’s patience with asinful generation : but when the Lord comes to plead hiscontroversy with the generations, there will be a dreadfulreckoning, and they will then come off with loss. But“ thou hast a few names even in Sardis, which have notdefiled their garments : and they shall walk with me inwhite : for they are worthy,” Rev. iii. 4.7th. Lastly, This is a rational way of acting, and so dowise men in their temporal affairs. If » harvest day be.cloudy or windy, do not men the more vigorously handletheir sickles ? If a dearth be feared, are not men the morecareful to provide for themselves? Even the very ants arebusy in harvest, while the winter is approaching. But,alas! the children of this world are wiser in their genera¬tion than the children of light; and the sluggard needsto be set to school to learn of the ants.I come now to the application of this doctrine, whichis the principal thing I had in view. AndUse I. shall he of exhortation. O let us be stirred upto redeem time, because our days are evil. Alas! our daysare evil days with a witness, and they are still growingworse and worse ; and the progress in the way of evil isso swift, that we seem to be very near arrived at that pitch,at which the Lord's anger may be expected to break forthinto a flame. Our days are evil days in several respects;in respect of corruption of doctrine and principles of reli¬gion ; in respect of abounding sin ;—  in respectof the hiding of die Lord’s face;—in respect of threatenedwrath and impending judgments ; and in respect of theguilt of former times yet unpurged away-Firet, Our days are evil days in respect of corruption ofdoctrine and principles of religion. The tares are sown-and grow apace in the Lord’s field. Papists are spread-Illustrated and enforced. £inr tlielr poison, and Prelatists theirs, without due check¬er control. A spirit of apostasy from the faith once de¬livered of the saints, appears eminently in these our un¬happy days, wherein the very .foundations of religion arestruck at, and the mysteries of it called to an account be¬fore the bar of corrupted reason, and rneastired with thecrooked reed of man’s natural light. And at this day isthat fulfilled amongst us in this church, which the apostleaddressed to the elders of the church of Ephesus, “ Alsoof your own selves shall men arise speaking perversethings, to draw away disciples after them,” Acts xx. 30.The spring of gospel-doctrine, which sometime ran clear,is now disturbed, truth is fallen in our streets, and equitycannot enter, and Zion’s wounds are multiplied in thehouse of her friends. The days are evil on this account: for,1st, It is very dishonourable to our Lord Jesus Chiist,the purchase of whose blood gospel-truths are ; for ofthem we-should never have heard, had not he given him¬self to the death for lost sinners, .ind the more theyare obscured and vailed, the more is the Mediator’s gloryeclipsed ; which may be matter of mourning' to those wholove his name.?d. It is an evidence that the saviour of the gloriousgospel is much lost, and that the glorious truths thereof,on which exercised souls have often sweetly fed, are muchdisrelished. And so it speaks soul exercise to be veryrare, and the experience of the power of truth on men'sspirits to be fallen very low.3d. It is a fore-token of the work of-conversion, whichhas long been very rare, its being yet more rare. Thegospel is the great mean of conversion of sinners untoGod, Gal. iii. 2. and therefore Satan strives with all hismight to pervert it, and so to make it the more unfit forreaching for its end.4th. It is a sad prognostic of the farther vvoful decay ofpractical godliness. The doctrine which is of God is “ ac¬cording to godliness,” Tit. i. 1. and that which hath nota tendency to promote real godliness, is not a doctrinefrom God. The law in its due place leading sinners toChrist, and leading them as a rule of life in Christ, tendsto this end : but when it is put out of its due place, it is1(0 The Duty of redeeming the Time,perverted, and will never produce mote like holiness; buta carcase of formal performar.ces unacceptable to God, insome; afti more licentiousness and uatcnderness in others,as may be observed in the lives of those who so handle thelav.: as to confound it with the gospel, John vii, 19. “ Didnot Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keepeththe law';”5th. There is a bias in the corrupt nature of man in avery eminent measure, whereby people are ready to entej-t;tin corrupt principles, and so they are ready to be sub¬verted by them. Tor there is not an error vented in theworld, but it has some/.-ne hist or other akin to it in'the.hearts of men. And there is a peculiar bias to legalism,which is the temptation and snare of our days. 16th. Human learning is highly advanced in our days,and power of godliness is under a great decay. And noneare so capable to do a mischief to religion as those learnedmen, who are strangers to t!>e power of godliness. Thisis it by which religion comes to be moulded in a suitable¬ness to carnal reason, and so is perverted!7th. It is a great sign of tlie Lord’s anger against a sin¬ful generation, for-their not receiving the truth in love.Hence says the apostle, 2 Thess ii 10, 11.—“ With aildeccivrbitness of unrighteousness, in them that perish •because they received not the love of the truth, that theymight be saved. And for this cause Gcd shall send themstrong delusion, that they should- believe a lie.”- Thiscalls aloud to you to redeem the *ime ; and;,Lr, To labour to get the knowledge of the truth, to lknow what we believe, and to understand the principlesof the religion which we profess; and for this cruse toimprove tire means of knowledge. Ignorance is dan¬gerous at all times, especially in such evil days.2dly, To study to know why you believe, and to under¬stand the reasons of your principles. Hence the apostlePeter exhorts, “ Be ready always to give an answer toevery man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is inyou, with meekness and fear,” 1 Pet. iii. J5. Many havebeen too easily satisfied with the principles which theyhave learned, without inquiring into the scripture-groundsof them : but surely this calls aloud to the practice of the.Wvstrated and enforced. iiBereans, who wore “ more noble than tlioc.e In Thessalo-nic j, in that'they received the word with all readiness ofmind, and searched the scriptures daily, whether thosethings were so,” Acts xvii. 11.‘idly. Labour to be experimental Christians, to feel thepower of truth in your own souls; to “ know Christ, andthe power ot his resurrection, and the fellowship of hissufferings, being made conformable to his death,” Phil,iii. 10- Raw unfelt notions in the head are easily partedwith in a day of trial; but experience of the power oftruth rivets in the heart: which is the true reason whymany simple men and women hold last the truth, whenlearned divines let it go ; - for all the human learning inthe world will not give men such a hold of the truth asChristian experience will give. Thest duties the case o£our day calls for at all hands.But for your further direction, as to what is your dutyat this day, when the harmony in the song of the watch¬men is marred, and some are destroying what othersbuild up, and a spirit of error is undoubtedly gone forth,I would say,(!•) Be net ye unconcerned with the public state of af¬fairs in that point. For the honour of .God and the causeof truth, lie at stake: and tliere is a wo denounced againstsuch careless ones, Amosvi. 1. “ Wo .o them that are atease in Zion.” Some, if they get their own worldly af¬fairs right, they are little concerned to know what way itgoes with the church and interest of Christ; they think itnone of their business, Phil ii 21. “ For all seek theirown, not the things which are Jesus Christ’s,” Some,'from a profane and wicked principal of looseness, look onthe confusions of the day with satisfaction, saying-in theirhearts, Aha, so would we have it, like the children oflidom, wha said in the day of Jerusalem’s distress, “ Raseit, rase it, even to the foundation thereof,” Psal. cxxxvii.7. Others shew concern about them; but the great-thingwith them is, thereby to gratify their curiosity, or scJmeparticular humour of theirs : but their hearts are not af¬fected with them as kindly children of Zion.But_I would advise you to a cordial concern, in yourmost secret retirements before the Lord, in these matters.1 & The Duly of redeeming the * ,met' M'aks to heart the dishonour done to God thereby, thewounds given to truth, the stroke reached'to true reli¬gion, and the danger.to the souls of men Shew suclrsympathy with Gods interests, as you may be capable tosay before the .Lord, ** The zeal of thine house hath eatenme up; and the approaches of them that reproachetlithro, are fallen upon me, Psal. Ixtx. SV If I forget thee, OJerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning, if Ido not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof ofmr mouth; if 1 prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy.’’Psalm cxrxvii. 5,6. Mourn over these things in secret, asthe select Tew in Jerusalem did, Ezek ix. L forecited.Wrestle with God, in prayer for his appearance, for hisreturn to the land, to ordinances, and to the spirits of hisministers and .people. Hear what the Lord says, “ I have.set watchmen upon thy walls, O Jerusalem, which shallnever hold their peace day nor night: ye that make men¬tion of the Lord, keep not silence ; and give him no r est,till he establish, and till he make Jerusalem a praise in theearth, Isa. Ixii. 6, 7.(2. Let your hearts be impressed with awful thoughtsof the anger of God against the generation, appearing inthat matter, Ilab. iii. 16. It is an awful thought, thatZion-builders are now turned like Babel-builders, throughthe anger of God, that they cannot understand one ano¬ther. It was a sad" sign to Jerusalem, when coals of nrewere taken from between the cherubims, and scatteredover the whole city, Ezek. x 2. And when the angeltook fire oft' the altar, and cast it on the earth, Rev viii,.5. fearful confusions ensued, dliese coals of fire are scat¬tered among us, and the prospect of the issue may causea serious .observer to tremble.(3.) Be duly affected with the hazard of your own soulsin such a time. There is danger on every hand, whentlie anger of the Lord seems to be against the whole mul¬titude of us. Let no man adventure to lodge the causesof wrath in one party. Some may Ire deeper than othersin the sinful course; but all have a deep hand in the,pro¬vocation. Hear what the Lord says to Israel, Ezek. vii.12,13, IT “ The time is come, the day drtweth near :let not the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn; for wrathIllustrated and enforced. 13is upoa all the multitude hereof. For the teller shall notreturn to that which is sold, although they were yet alive:for the vision is touching the whole multitude thereof,■which shall not return : neither shall any strengthen him¬self in the iniquity of his life. They have blown the trum¬pet, even to make all ready, but hone goeth to the battle:for my wrath is upon all the multitude thereof.” Thereis a danger of straying both to the right and left hand inthis time of the Loid’s anger And if the Lord do notpity, there rgay be frightful monuments of the Lord’s an¬ger on bo:h hands, giving up men to strong delusions.(4.) Give yourselves solemnly away'to Christ, to be byhim carried safely through the wilderness in the dark andcloudy day. Say with the prt phet, “ Therefore I willlook unto the Lord ; I will wait for the God of my sal¬vation, my God will hear me,” Micah vii. 7. In consider¬ation of your danger, take him anew for your guide andleader, saying with the sppuse, Cant i. “ fell me, Othou whom my soul loveth, where thou feedest, wherethou makest thy flock to rest at noon : for why should Ibe as one that turneth aside by the flocks of thy compa¬nions f” Our own wisdom is not-to be trusted at any time,. especially when the days are evil. Now when you see themist arising, take fast hold of him ; when you see thestorm a-coming, ebuse him for your pilot, and commityourselves to his conduct through the waves.(5.) Keep up habitually a holy jealousy over yourselves,t and confidence in the promise of direction, and a consci-entious believing use of the means, of his'appointment.That holy jealousy is necessary in respect of the snaresin the evil day, and the corruption of our hearts so readyto entangle us in them. “ He that trusteth in his ownheart, is a fool,” Prov-xxviii. 2G. The premises are manyon which faith is to be exercised •, as, The meek will heguide in judgment: and the meek will he teach his way.”Psalm xxv. 9. “ I will instruct thee and teach thee in theway which thou shalt go: I will guide thee with mineeye,” Psalm xxxii. 8. “ Thine ears shall hear a word be¬hind thee, saying, This is the way, Walk ye in it, when ye (tuin to the right hand, and when ye turn to the left,” Isa.xxx. 21. And you must use the means in confidence of~i 'r The T)uly of redeeming the Time,tho promise, C:mt. i. 7, 8. When the spouse prayed for di¬rection Tell me. Sec quoted above, the firidegroom replied,N If thou know not, O to On fairest among women, go tliyway forth by the footsteps of thy flock, and feed thy kidsbeside the shepherds tents.” Go ye and 'do likewise.(6 ) Beware of those things particularly, which leavemen tp be a prey to delusion in evil days, and for wh-^hGod leaves them to be carried away with the torrent.And these are,[l.j Worldly-mindedness, denoted, Rev. vii 3. by theEarth. Carnal earthly professors are ready to get a castin such a day ; they whose god is the world, will he sureto hold by it^ when Christ and the world part. Why h isthe cause f God so few friends, but because the worldhas so many > The world’s ease, advantage, good word,and its multitude, have a great sway with men, to theprejudice of their duty, as in the case of Demas, 2 Tim.iv 10 who forsook .tire apostle Paul, “ having loved thispresent world.”[2 ] Instability and wavering, denoted, P^ev vii. 3. bythe Sea. They that have itching ears after novelties, areready to be caught in the snare. And hence it is, that atthis day old solid truths are loaded and disrelished, andthe land-marks set by our fathers are removed.[3'.j Pride and self-conceit, denoted, Rev. vii. 3. bythe Trees. None are readier to fall into the snare thanthose who are high in conceit with themselves. The hum¬ble soul lies fairest to make its way fairly through, whilethe stormy wind blows, and casts down many tall cedars.£4-.] A secret disgust of the truth, through a love tounrighteousness, 2 Thess ii. 10. forfeited- When practi¬cal religion decays in a generation, and sin abounds, thetruth caahot long miss to be departed from. Lusts se¬cretly entertained in the heart, prepare men for quittingof truth in their judgments.(jo.J Formality, Rev. xi. 2. Those that worship in theouter court, are ready to become a jfirey to delusion.(7.) Be much conversant in the scriptures, “ Search thescriptures,” s ivs Christ, John v. 39. and there notice whatthe Spirit of the Lord teaches. The scripture is the reedfor measuring the sanctuary s it is the infallible word, theTHuslrattd and enforced.ISonly'foundation- of divine faith. Try what ye hear by it,as the noble Bercans did, for which they are highly com-mended.*• (8.) Lastly, Be tender and holy in your walk. “ If anyman will do his wall/’ .says our Lord, John vii 17. “ heshall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whe¬ther I speak of myself.’’ Where men are conscientious topractise known truth, there is hope of being led into alltruth; while otherwise the Spirit ol the Lord beinggrieved departs/ ,Secondly, Our drtys are evil day's, in respect of abound¬ing sin. The atehi.u-atroh a'here is wa live hath signalizeditself tor looseness and licentiousness, and our iniquity isgone up into the heavens, and the measure of it is fast,very fast filling up Our “ land ^we may say^ is filledwith sin against the holy One of Israel,” Jer. li. 5. Theabounding < f sin in our day appears in that,1. bins of all sorts are to be found amongst us, whetheragainst the first or second table. The truth is, conteaiptof God and of religion h ith'made most fearful advances:the gospel is despised, the h< !y laws.of God are violated,las bands are broken, and his cords cast away. The landis'defiled with idolotry. superstition, sinful swearing, Sab¬bath-breaking, unfaithfulness in all relations, murders un¬cleanness, dishonesty, and fraud, lying, and covetousness.And what'can be found among a people piofessing thename of Christ to bring wrath on them, that is not to befound in Scotland at this day i Particularly, there are twosigns of a generat ion posting to ruin, that have appearedof late move than for many years befoie.(1.) Horrid blasphemies, shewing what height the ge¬neration is come to in contempt of God. Not only isthere a* fearful outbreaking of blasphemous principles,overturning the foundation of Christianity ; but many'fearful blasphemies and blasphemous practices have beenoccasionally vented and set up of late, to fill Up the mea¬sure of the iniquity of the land.(2.) Rampant oppression, to shew, what a low pass hu¬manity is a: in these dregs of time. I doubt if there beany alive that ever saw as much oppression in this land,I when it was neither a time of war, nor of persecution, ?.»t6 The Duty of redeeming the Tiinf,we h;nre neither of them at this day. When was that somuch verified as at this day, “ The people shall be op.pressed, every one by another, and every one by his neigh-bour : the child shall behave himself proudly against theancient, and the base against the honourable.” Isa. iii. 5.These things can hardly miss to rill our cup to the brim.2. Corruption of manners has overspread all ranks inchurch and state ; and it is come to that, Genesis vi 12.“ God looked upon the earth, and behold it was conupt;for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth,” Notonly religion, but sobriety is almost gone out of fashionwith those of the greater sort, so that they have altoge¬ther broken the yoke, and burst the bones; and the meatiersort follow the example, alas! too much ; and there is avisible growing untendemess among those whose charac¬ter and office in the church obliges them to give a holyexample to both- So that look after religion where youwill, it will be found at a very low pass in the practice ofit.3 Religion is so much on the declining hand, thatthere is not so much as a standing still and not mending,but a growing worse and worse still. The generation isstill growing forward in apostasy from God, and not go¬ing, but running further and further wrong. New causesof wrath are still produced in the progress of time ; andSatan’s kingdom is visibly increasing. The evil is grow¬ing worse and worse, and many sometime hopeful havetaken off the mask, and appear in their native colours.4- The sins of sons and daughters are more and greaterthan ordinary. They are so mixed with the men of theworld, that they have learned much of their way, andhave left their first love, Rev. ii. 4. There is a cloud evenupon them, so that they have not that life, spirit, andtenderness that sometimes they had And they that de¬part from evil make themselves a prey.And what makes these days of abounding sin worse, is,1st, That they are come in over the belly of much light.Our days have been days of much gospel-light, but dietruth has been held in unrighteousness, and men have re¬belled against the light: so the light is grown weaker,and the works of darkness have got the upper hand.Illustrated and enforced. 172J(v, Our national hazards and deliverances have beenmany and signal; and behold the fruit of them, as if wehad been delivered to do all these abominations. If eitherthreatened judgments or merciful deliverances could havecured us, we had been in another case at this day : but allthese things seem to have been blasted.‘Mlly> There are few, very 'few to stand in the gap,Ezek. xxii. 30. Few that have either heart or hand to op¬pose themselves to the torrent of wickedness : few mour¬ners over the abominations done in the midst of us. Idoubt not but there are some who truly sigh and cry forthe abouifding sin of our day. But I doubt if our Zionthese many years has afforded fewer of that sort. Theseour provocations have been of so long continuance, thatthough at their first appearance they were moving, yetthe horror of them seems to be abated by custom ; be¬sides that many of the sometimes mourners in Zion arethemselves deeply involved in the backsliding courses ofthe day.These things make our days evil days : for,(1.) The dishonour done to God, and the provocatioathereby given to die eyes of his glory, is great beyond ex-pression : “ The name of God is blasphemed among theGentiles, through you,” says Paul to the Romans, chap,ii. 21. Our land has been singularly privileged, beingmarried to the Lord in solemn covenant, and her renownhas sometimes gone through many nations: But, ah 1"how is God dishonoured, and religion exposed, by suchfearful departures from the Lord !(2.) They are ensnaring days. O how hard is it forpeople t« keep their feet in such a day, and not to be car¬ried away with the stream ? Rev. iii. 5. How hard is itto keep up a due horror of sin, while on every hand of usit is so lightly looked upon ? Temptation is strong in sucha day.(3 ) They are days that while they last, little goodand great can well be expected in them. Hence said theLord by the man of God unto Eli, “ Them that honourme, I will honour ; and they that despise me, shall belightly esteemed,” 1 Sam. ii. 30. A generation so muchdishonouring God, it can be little expected that God will18 The Duly of redeeming the Time,honour. We would fain hope that the Lord will yetbring glorious days ; but it is very probable that many of |the present generation shall be shovelled out of the way inthe first place. Hence saith the Lord, Ezek xx 37, 38.“ I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bringyou into the bond of the covenant* And I will purge out ■from among you the rebels, and them that transgressagainst me.”(L ) Fhe consequences of them can hardly miss to bedreadful. “ Shall l not visit for these things r saith theLord : shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation asthis ?” Jer. fx. 9. Where sin comes to such a height,readily severe judgments quickly follow. And we cansee nothing that may give any hope that we shall miss tosee sad days, but that the Lord can pour out his Spirit,and turn us back: hut, alas ! in the mean time we lookalways the longer unlike such a merciful turn in ouraffairs.(5.) Lastly, They have a sad aspect on posterity. .The <Jews crucified Christ above sixteen hundred years ago, iand their^children to this day are smarting under it.And sure! am, if matters continue in the course they ayein at this day In this land any long time, the succeedinggeneration will be in a miserable plight.These things call aloud to redeeming ot time. And,1. Consider well your own ways, that you may see ityou be joined or not in the conspiracy against God withthe generation; Hag. i 5. “ Thus saith the Lord of hosts.Consider your ways,” Alas ! it may be easily seen, that 1most of us are deep in the score, and none of us can wipeour mouths, and say justly, we have net sinned, we havenot had a hand in the genoral declining.2. Bestir yourselves, and “ save yourselves from thisuntoward generation,” Acts ii. 1-0. Take, another waythan the common course of the day wherein you live.God is saying, “ Come out from among them, my people.We ye separate, and touch not the unclean thing:” standat a distance from their sinful ways,' and be not partakers .with their sins, lest ye partake of their plagues,3. Live near God, and by your tender holy walking,give a practical testimony against the abounding sin ofIllustrated and enforced. > 19the day*. Advert to the saying of the wise man, Prov.xxviii. 4. “ They that forsake the law, praise the wicked:but such as keep the law, contend with them ”4. Be mourners in Zion, wrestlers with the Lord in thecase of the evil of the days. Mourn for your own sinsand the sins of others.5. Lastly, Strengthen and stir up ore another in theway of the Lord. The people ot God had need to ani¬mate one another in duty, in a special manner when thetorrent of sin runs high, that so they may the better op¬pose it, and keep themselves from being carried aw ay withit. Follow the practice of the Lord’s people who lived ina very declining time-of the Jewish church, recorded Mai.iii. 16. “ Then they that feared the Lord, spake often oneto another, and the Lord hearkened and heard it, and abook of remembrance was written before him for themthat feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name.”Thirdly, Our days are evil, in regard they are days ofthe hiding of the Lord’s face. Well may say as Isa. xlv.15. “ Verily thou art a God that hidest thyself, O God ofIsrael tho Saviour.” The Lord’s gratious appearancesin the powerful operations of his Holy Spirit on the soulsf.i Iiiern, maKc good days; am sometimes there have beensuch eminently good days: but, alas ! our days are evil,being days of God’s hiding his face ; whereof take these' evidences.1. The little "power and efficacy on the souls of men,that accompanies ordinances at this day. Well may we.say, as Isa. liii- 1. “ Who hath believed our report? andto whom is the arm of the Lord revealed:” A soundwork of conviction is very rare, and the work of conver¬sion is', yet more rare. The word is heard, but where isthe fruit of it ’ They that were filthy are filthy' still. Theprofane are not reformed, the secure sinner is not awaken¬ed, tlie formal professor L? i o> brought acquainted withthe pov/er of godliness, and they that have the root of thematter in them, are not so liberally fed as sometimes theywere. Whence is all this, but that the Lord hides him¬self, and appears not in the assemblies of his people assometime a-day ? We have sinned away his presence, andprovoked him to say, “ Your new moons, and your ap-20 The Duty of redeeming the Time,pointed feasts my soul hateth ; they are a trouble unto me,1 am weary to bear them,” Isa. i. 14.2 The great rarity of lively experienced Christians inour day. It is the promise, Mai. iv. 2. “ Unto you thatfear my name, shall the Sun of Righteousness arise withhealing in his wings ; and ye shall go forth, and grow upas calves of the stall.” Some such there are, but alas thenumber of them is very small. Most of the virgins areasleep ; deadness and formality, and estrangedness fromthe life of faith, prevail among those who are called byth«r Lord’s name ; and soul exercise is rare to be heard of.The best that can be made of our case is that, Rev. iii. 4.“ Thon hast a few names even in Sardis, which have notdefiled their garments; and they shall walk with me inwhite: for they are worthy.”3. The divisions, dissensions, and opposition one toanother, that are to be found among the Lord’s ownsaints and people. Sometimes there has been in our landa very fair separation betwixt the enemies and the friendsof real godliness ; so that whatever difficulties the chil-dren of God had with the common adversary, they wereat one among themselves: but now, alas ! it is otherwise;the Loid’s own children are fallen out by the way, andthose who are dear to God, and shall meet in heaven,cannot hit it upon earth. For the Lord ishiding his facefrom us, and we are left in a mist.4. The Spirit of counsel and wisdom is with-held. Inthe management of civil and church matters at this day,that seems to be much accomplished, Isa. xxix. 14. “ Thewisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the under¬standing of their prudent men shall be hid.” We arerowed into deep waters, and instead of bringing us safeback, we are carried further and further into the depths.The Lord is provoked to withdraw, and so our woundscannot be healed. The days must needs be evil in thisrespect: for,1st, Such days cannot be thriving days for religion,and the cause and interest of God ; Psal Ixxxi- 12 “ Igave them up,” says Jehovah, “ unto their own hearts’lust : and they walked in their own counsels.” When thesun withdraws in the winter, nothing can be expected butIllustrate A and enforced. 21that the face of the earth will be barren : and when theLord hides his face from a church, matters cannot prosperthere. Backslidings are increased, all goes to wreck, forthat which holds matters right is withdrawn.2dly, Such a day is a day of spiritual plagues. AsGod’s presence goes, all darkness, disorder, and confusionfollow's, according to the measure of the Lord’s wuth-'drawing. The gospel dees men hurt instead of doingthem good ; the wild grapes of wickedness are broughtforth instead of good grapes, &c.This calls aloud for redeeming of time; and,(i.) To bestir ourselves to lament after, and to layhold upon a departing God and glory. We should makethat our work, 1 Sam, vii. 2. “ All the house of Israellamented after the Lord.” And let it not be said of usas Isa. Ixiv. 7. “ There is none that calleth upon thyname, that stirreth up himself to take hold of thee ; forthou hast hid thy face from us, and hast consumed us,because of our iniquities.” We should be as Jacob say.>ng> “ I will not let thee go, except thou bless me,” Gen.xxxii. 66. and the disciples, “ Abide with us, for it is to*wards evening, and the day is far spent,” Luke xxiv. 29.And this we should be as w^e would not be esteemed tobe of the Gadarene temper, who besought Christ to de¬part out of their coasts. O cry mightily, that the Lordmay not leave us nor forsake us.(2 ) Endeavour to walk uprightly in such a crookedgeneration; for the wmrst of times such shall get good ofthe Lord’s wrord, Micah ii. 7. “ Do not my words dogood to him that walketh uprightly ?” The Lord neverforsakes his people utterly ; and the more that any do setthemselves to be perfect in their generation, they may besure it will go the better with their spirits.(3.) Lastly, Double your diligence in secret duties ; bemuch in prayer; and especially cry with much fervencyto find a meal for yourselves in public ordinances. Ithink wre ought to consider, when we are to go to ordinan¬ces, that this is a day of the hiding of the Lord’s face,wherein he is angry with our mother, and therefore is butlittle seen in her house ; and therefore we had need to bemore importunate in setting the appointment.22The Duty of redeeming the Time,Fourthly, Our days are evil, in regard they are days ofthreatened wrath and impending judgments. The cloudsof wrath are h inging our heads, and we have many sadpresages of a stroke. We many here notice three things.1. The sins of the generations are come to a monstrousheight. And as the progress thereof is somewhat unor¬dinary, so it seems to shew that the cup of these nationsis near the brim.2. The Lord’s hand has-been heavily laid on a nationabroad, from which these nations have taken an exampleof sinning, and the Lord may justly punish us accord-3. Enemies are still busy in their contrivances to bringthe nations into blood and confusion ; and the increase ofPopery, and the divisions in the nations on civil and sa¬cred concerns, do expose us to be the more easy prey.This calls aloud to the redeeming of time ; and,L?, To awaken out of sleep, and seriously to considerthe signs of the time, the tokens of wrath gone out againstus, that the day may not overtake us unawares, Matthewxvi. 3.: We have had many warnings of an approaching-stroke, but mercy has so often interposed for our delivery,that grace to improve them not coming along with them,we are generally more secure than formerly ; and themore secure, the more likely is the stroke to be near : 1-Thess v 3. “ For when they shall say, Peace, and safety ;then sudden destruction cometh upon them, as travel upona woman with child ; and they shall not escape.”c2dly. To prepare for. a time of trial, Amos iv. 12.“ Therefore'thus will f do unto thee, O Israel: and be¬cause I will do this unto thee, prepare to meet thy God,O Israel.” The time should be improved as No ih did his,Heb. xi. 7. “ By faith Noah, being warned of God ofthings not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an arkto the saving of his house.” And the best preparation isthat, Micah v 5. “ This man shall be the peace, when theAssyrian cometh into our land ” Their case v/as sad inNoah’s days who were without the ark ; so when theLord’s anger goes through a land, the case of those mustbe very sad who are out of Christ.Illustrated and enforced. <93'.idly. To Stay our too eager pursuit after the world, andbe content with l.ttlc, and rather to be taken upabcu out.souls, and how to be carried through in the evil day. Le^us regard what Jeremiah said to Baruch, Jer. xiv Vbeekm thou great thmgs for thyself? seek them not.’’i'dly, .0 labour to settle matters, and keep them clear.bet'veen (jrpd and you, that there be no standing contro¬versy betwuu the Lord and you. S °and laflbi °vr days are.evil, in respect of thegu.k oi toimer times yet unpurged away. Our days arethe Th°ae,0f JOj'ah’ r Km^ xxili 2d- Notwithstandingthe Lord turned not from the fierceness of his great wratherewith his great anger was kindled against Judah be’turn withal. ihe perfidious treachery and apostasy ofthe land from the covenanted wbrk of reformation, ^hobiood of the saints shed for the cause of God, with theoppressions, violences, and persecutions on that score arelike the iniquity of Baal-peor, from which the land is notpurged to tms day. And this generation are servingthemselves hens to it, by the many pieces of defection fa^earned on at this day. So that God seems to be abou ^to reckon wuh the present generation for all togetherlookhlf lb S t0ithe fdL'eminK of tJ™, to be taking- a back,look of the national controversies of old and of late, to bemourning over them, and the dishonour done to God byjudgmems! PrePan“8-t0 ^ Lord in *. wnjI shall couclude all with another use, namely,’Use II. Of reproof to two sorts of persons.V 10 those who go with the stream of the evil dayscourS of" A"1!65 il0Wing,,he and backslkfingcourses of the day, that make the lime so evil Alas 'how many are there, who are drawing on v rath on them!selves and on the land by tbei, irrel.gkm, profanenes andapostasy from God ? Let such c: u ider, ’(1.) How dangerous it is to be found among those whoare ,n a conspiracy against Go J, to provoll his wr athagainst a land When the flood of disllour to God Junsthe ft,ia.t i0'n themselves in the sinful courses ofu.i), tney not only have a hand in provoking God— ' J.I■2 i The Duty of redeeming the Time, See.] : against themselves, But they are the Achans in the camp,the Jonahs in the ship, having a notable hand in bringingwrath on others too.(2.) The higher one’s hand is in a sinning time, thedeeper may their share be expected to be in a time of suf¬fering or calamity, when the Lord will appear to vindicatethe glory of his name.2. To those who weigh not the evil of the days, hutlive on carelessly, and are never stirred up to their dutythereby. They consider not how matters stand betwixtGod and the generation. This is a common evil amongsti us, and a sad evidence of the low state of religion at thisday. O that such would b« stirred up to consider theirways, and the grounds of the Lord’s controvesy with thegeneration. A.wake, O sleeeper, and call upon thy God,lest thou perish in the furious .storm, which is Hkely tot break ont upon us. It is not a time to live at ease andunconcerned, when so many marks of the Lord’s dis¬pleasure are so visible, that he who runs may read. Awaketherefore, shake off thy sloth, and betake thyself to theLord Jesus by faith, as the only means of thy escaping thewrath that is to come,-—y/mrn.■?. Cra-wford, Printer, Kitmarnsci.