THEWonderful Cor^ereneesV/HICH PASSED BETWEENThe GHOST of Mr. MAXWELL of COOL*ANDThe Rev. Mr. GGILVY of INNER.WICK,As it was. found in Mr. OGILVY’S Clofet, after his Deatii,and written by his own Hand./ - ' *GLASGOW/PRINTED IN THE SALTMARKFTEf .rt c r v r it( 2 )A COPY OF SOME CONFERENCES, fee.•»UPON the 3d day of February 1724, at feven o'clock at night, after I had parted with 'inurf-ton, and was coming up the Burial Road, one cameriding after me; upon hearing the noife of the horfe’sfeet, I took it to be Thurfton; but looking back,,andfeeing the horfe of a grey colour, I called, who’s there?The anfwer was, the Laird of Cool, be not afraid :• Looking to him with the little light the moon afford¬ed, I took him to be the colledtor of Caflle-law, whohad a mind to put a trick upon me, and immediatelyflruck with all my force, with my cane, thinking Iwould leave a mark upon him that would make himremember his prefumption; but being fenfibie 1 aim-: ed as well as ever I did in my life^yet my cane, findingno refiftance, flew out of my hand to the diftance of60 feet,and obferving it, by its white head,I difmount-ed, and took it up, but had fome difficulty in mount¬ing again, partly by the ramping of my horfe, and part¬ly by reafon of a certain fort of trembling through¬out my whole joints; fomething alfo of anger had irefhare in the confufion: for I thought he laughed whenmy ftaff flew out of my hand. Coming up with himagain, (who halted all the time I was feeking my ftaff)I afked him once more who he was ? He anfwered,the laird of Cool. I enquired, firft, if he was the lairdof Cool, what brought him hither, and what was hisbufmefs with me ? He anfwered, the reafon that Iwant yop is, that I know you are difpofed to do forme what none of your brethren in Nithfdale will fomuch as attempt, tho’ it ferve Yiever fo good purpofes.I told him I would never refufe to do any good thingto ferve a good purpofe, if I thought I was obliged toit as my duty : He anfwered, fince i had undertakenwhat few in Nithfdale would, for he had trier! fevertiperfons upon the fubjefb, who were more obliged tohim than I was to any perfon living. Upon this Idrewm*.C 6 N F E R.t. a< vj E S, &c.rhy bridle-reins, and talked in furpri^e, afking what Ihad undertaken ? He anfwered, that on Sabbath lait,I had heard, you condemned Mr. Paton and the otherMinifters of Dumfries for dilfuading Mr. Meii^iesfrom keeping his appointment with me; and if youhad been in their place, you would have perfuaded thelad to do as I defired, and that you would have gonewith him yourfelf if he had been afraid, and that ifyou had been in Mr. Patou’s place, you would havedelivered my commiffions yourfelf, fince they intend¬ed to do feveral perfons juft ice. I alked him. PrayCool, who informed you that I talked at this rate? Towhich he anfwered, you muft know that we are ac¬quainted with many things that t re living know no¬thing about. Phcfe things you did fay, and much moreto the purpofe; and all that I want is, that you wouldfulfil your profhife, and deliver my commiffions to myliving wife. Upon this I faid, ’tis a pity Cool, thatyou who know fo many things, fhould not know thedifference between an abfolute and conditional pro-mife; I did indeed, at the time you mention, blameMr. Pa:on, for I thought him juftly blameabie in hin¬dering the Lad to meet with you, and if 1 had been inhis place, I would have a^fled quite the reverie ; butdid I ever fay, that if you would come to Innerwickand employ me, that I would go all the way to Dum¬fries on fuch an errand j that is what never fo muchds entered into my thoughts. He anfwefed, what wereyour thoughts I do not pretend to. know, but I candepend upon my information, that thefe were yourwords: but I fee you are in fome diforder, I’ll waitupon you when you have more prefence of mind.By this time we we'e at James Dickfon’s inclofurebelow the church-yard, and while I was recolkjftingin my mind if ever I had fpoke thefe words he alkdgcd,lie brqke from me thro’ the Church yard with greater“violence than ever any man on horfebsck was capableof, with fuch finging and buzzing noife, as put me ingreater diforder than I was all the time f was with him-JIiip! 4 CONFERENCES BETWIXTI came to my houfe, ami my wife obferved more thanordinary palenefs in my countenance, and would al-l«dge that fomething ailed me; 1 called for a dram, andtold her I was a little uneafy. After I found myfeif alittle refrefhed, I went to my clofet to meditate uponthis, the moft aftonilhing adventure of my whole life.Upon the 5 th of March 1724, being at Harehead,t baptizing the Shepherd’s child, I came off at fun-fetting, or a little after, and near William White’smarch, the Laird of Cool came up with me as form¬erly ; and, after his firit falutation, bid me not be a-fraid. I told him I was not in the leaf): afraid, in thename of God and Chrift my only Saviour, that if hewould do me the leaft harm (for I know that he, inwhom I trufted, was ftronger than ail they put to¬gether, and if any of them fhould attempt to do e-, ven the horfe that I rid upon, as the-/ have done toDf. Mehzie’s man, if it be true that’s faid, and ge¬nerally believed about Dumfries) I have free accefsto complain to my'Lord and Mafter, to the lain ofwhole refentment you are as liable now as before.Cool}] You need not multiply words on that head,for you are as fafe with me, and fafer, if fafer canbe, than when I was alive.Oi*T/.] Well then Cool,'let me have a peaceableand eafy converfation with you for the time we ridetogether, and give me fome information about theaffairs of the other world, for no man inclines tolofe his time in converfing with the dead, withouthearing or learning fomething that is ufeful.Cod.] Well, Sir, I will fatisfy you as far as Ithink it proper and convenient: Let me know whatinformation you want from me.h (Jj/Z/. jiMay I then alk you, if you be in a fkte ofhappinefs or not ?Cool.] There are a great many things I can an-fwer, that the living are quite ignoranrof: there area great many things, that notwithftanding the addi¬tional knowledge I have acquired fiuce my dcafh, I1 -. cannotCOOL AND OGILVY. scannot anfwer; and there are a jneat ma'ny'queftionsand things that you may Hart, of which the laft isone, that I will not anfwer.Then I know not how to manage cur con-verfaticn, for whatever I fhall enquire of yon, I feeyou can eafiiy fhift me, fo that 1 might profit moreby converfing by myfeif.Cool.'] You may try.Ogil.] Well, then, what fort of a body is it thatyou appear in, and what fort of a horfe is it that youride upon, that appears fo full of mettle ?Cool.] You may depend upon it, it is not the famebody that I was witnefs to your marriage in, nor inwhich I died, for that is in the grave rotten; but it isfuch a body as ferves me in a moment, for I can flvas fleet with it, as my foul.can be without it; fo thatI can go to Dumfries and return again, before youcan rifle twice the length of your horfe; nay, if Ihave a mind to go to London, or Jerufalem, or to themoon if you pleafe, I can perform all th'efe journiesequally foon, for it calls me nothing but a thought,"or wifh; for this body is as fleet as your thought, forin the moment of time that you can turn your thoughtto Rome, I can go there in perfon: anti as for myhorfe, it is much like myfelf, for it is Andrew John-lion my tenant who died 48 hours before me.Cgil.] So it feems when Andrew Johmton inclinesto ride, you mull fcrve him in the quality of a horfeas he does you now.Cool.] You are miftaken.Ogil.] I thought that all diftimSlion between mif-trefles and maids, lairds and tenants had been doneaway at death.Cool.] True, it is, but you do not take up thematter.Ogil-] XJns then is one of the queftiens you willnot anfwer:Cool. Yon are flail miftaken, for that queftion Ianlv/er, and after this you may underftand it.Ogil-I| 6 CONFERENCES BETWIXTj • Oge/. 1 Well then, Coo), h ave you never yet ap¬peared before God, nor received any fentence from, him as a Judge ?Cx>/.] Never yetOgi/.] I know you were a feholar, Cool, and ’tis, generally believed that there is a private judgementbefides the general one at the great day, the formerimmediately after death.—Upon this he interruptedmy arguing.Coo/.] No fuch thing!, No fuch thing ! No trialtill the great day. The heaven which good men en¬joy after death, confilts only in the ferenity of theip, minds, and fatisfa&ion of a good confcience, and thecertain hopes they have for an eternal joy, when thatday (hall come. The punilhment or hell of the wick¬ed immediately after death, confifts in the dreadfulflings of an awakened confcience, and the terror of, facing the great Judge, and the fenfible apprehenfiontof eternal torments enfuing; and this bears (till a/ due proportion to the evils they did when living: Soindeed the Rate of fome good folks differs but little inhappinefa from what they enjoy in the world; faveonly that they are free from the body, and the fins andforrows that attend it: On the other hand, there arefeme who may be find, rather not to have, been good,than that they were wicked, while living *, their Hateis not eafily diftinguifhed from that of the former, and■under that great clafs comes a great herd of fouls,a vaftnumber of ignorant people, who have not much mind¬ed the affairs of eternity, but at the fame time, havelived in much Indolence, ignorance, and innocence.OgiJ. i f always thought that their rejecting the termsof fid vat ion offered, was a fufficient ground for Godto puniCi them with his eternal difpleafure; and as totheir ignorance, that could never excufe them, fincethey lived in a place or the world wherp the know¬ledge of thefe things might eafilyhave been attained.Coo/.] They never properly rejected the terms offalvation, they never ftrittly fpeaking rejected Chrifl;poorCOOL AND OGILVY. 7poor fouls ! they had as great a liking both to himand heaven, as their grofs imaginations were capableof. Impartial reafon mult have many allowances; asthe ftupidity of their parents, Want of education,diftance from people of good fenfe and knowledge,and uninterrupted application, they were obliged togive their fecular affairs for their daily bread, theimpious treachery of their paftors, who perfuadedthem, if they were of fuch a party all was well; andmany other confiderations, which God, who is pureand perfe£! reafon itfelf, will not overlook; Thefeare not fo much under the load of divine difpleafure,as they are out of his grace and favour; and youknow it is one thing to be difcovered, and quite an- iother thing t<ibe perfecuted with all the power andrage of an incenjed earthly king. I allure you men'sfaces are not more various and different in the world,than their circumdances after death.©gt/.] I’m loath to believe all that you have faid atthis time, Cool, (but I will not difpute thofe matters |with you) becaufe feme things you have advanced, 1,feem to contradict the fcriptures, which I fhall al- '*ways look upon, to be the infallible truth of God;for I fold in the parable of Dives and Lazarus, that <the one was, immediately after death, carried up by 1the angels into Abraham’s bofem, and the other im¬mediately thruft down to hell.Cool.2 Exetife rne, Sir, that does not contradid oneword that I have faid, but you feem not to under-dand the parable, whpfe only end is to jlluftrate thetruth, that a man may be very happy and flourifliingin this world, and mod wretched and miferable in lthe next ; and that a man may be miferabie in this Jworld, and more glorious and happy in the next. (Og:7.] Be it fo, Cool, I fhall yield that point to you,and fhall pafs to another which has afforded me muchfpeculatiun fince our iad rencounter, and that is, howyou came to know, that I talked after the manner Idid concerning Mr. Paten on the did Sabbath of Fe-8 CONFERENCES BETWIXTbruaw !aft. Were you prefent with us, but invifibk?He anfwered very haughtily; No, Sir, I was not pre¬lent myfelf, I replied, I would net have you angry,Cool^ I propofed this queltion for my own fatislac-tion, but if ycTO don’t think proper to anlwer it, letit pafs. After he had paufed with his eyes on theground for three or four minutes of time at moft,with fome hade and feeming chearfulttefs, he fays;CW.J Well, Sir, I will fatisfy you in that point:You mult know that there are fent from heaven angelsto guard and comfort, and fo to do other fpecial goodfervices to good people; and even the fpirits of goodmen departed, are employed on that fame errand.OgU. 1 And do you not think that every man hasax’good angel!Cool.'] No, but a great many particular men have, ■and there are but few houfes of dillinclion efpecially,1but what have at lead one attending them, and fromwhat you’ve already heard of thefe Ipirits, ’tis no dif-*ficult matter to underhand how they may be fervice-able to each particular member, though at differentplaces, at a gn at diftaiic’e. Many are the good officeswhich the good angels do men that fear God, thoughmany times they are not fenfible of it; jind I knowaffuredly, that one powerful angel, or even active,clever foul departed, may be fufficient for fome vil¬lages; but for your great cities, fuch as London, E-dinburgh, or the like, there is one great Aitgel thathas the fuperintendance of the whole; and there areinferior angels or fouls departed, to whofe peculiarcare fuch a man of fuch particular weight crbufiuefs.is committed. Now, Sir, the kingdom of Satan doesape the kingdom of Chrid as much, in matters of poli¬tics, as can be well known that the courfe of wifdomis from above; fo that from hence are fent out'Mif-lionaries in the fame order; Httt becaufe the kingdomof Satan is much beftcr replenidied than the other,inftead of one devil there are in many indances, twoor three commiffioned to attend a particular family ofinfluence and didunSUpn-COOL AND OGILVY. $Ogil.~\ thread that there are ten thoufand times tenthoufandsof angels that wait upon God, and fing hispraife,and do his will,and I cannot undcrftand how thegood angels Ihould be inferior in number to the evil.CW.] Did I not fay, that whatever the number be,the fpirits departed are employed in the fame bufinefs,fo that as to the number of original deities, whereofSatan is chief, 1 cannot determine, but you need notdoubt but there are more fouls departed to that place,which, in a loofe fenfe, you call hell, by almoft aninfinity, than what are gone to that place, which ina like fenfe, you call heaven, who likewife are cm- ”ployed in the fame purpofe; and I can allure you, bythe bye, that there is as great a difference betweenangels both good and bad, as there is among men,with refpedt to their fenfe, knowledge, cunning, cle-vernefs and adlion; nay, which is more, the depart¬ed fouls in both fides out do feverais, from their ve-.ry, firft departure, of the original angels. This you’llperhaps think a paradox, but *tis true.Ogil.') I do not doubt it, but what is that to myqueltion about what I am felicitous.Cool.'] Take a little patience, Sir, from what I’vefaid, you mightjiave underltobd me, if you had yourthought about you, but I ffiall explain myfelf to you.Both the good and the bad angels have dated timesol rendezvous, and the principal angels who have thecharge either of towns, cities, or kingdoms, not tomention particular perfons, villages ajrd families, andall that is tranfa£led in thefe feveral parts of the coun¬try, are there made open; and at their rencounter oneach fide,; every thing is told as in your parilh, inmilns, kilns and fmithies, only with this difference,that many things faife are talked at the living ren¬counters, but nothing bufwhat is exact truth is faid,or told among the dead; only 1 mult obferve to you.That as I’m credibly informed, feveral of the inferiorbad angels or fouls of wicked men, departed, have toldmany things that they have done, and when a morein-io CONFERENCES BETWIXTintelligent fpirit is fent out upon enquiry, and thereport of the former feemtng doubtful, he brings ina contrary report, and makes it appear truth, the for¬mer fares very ill Their regard to truth prevents it,for while they obferve the truth, they do their bufi-nefs, and keep their ftation, for God is truth.Ogil ] So much truth being among the good an¬gels, I’m apt to think that lies and falfehood will beas much in vogue among the bad.Cool.'] A grofs mi^ake, and ’tis not the alone mif-take which living foiKS fall under, with refpeft to theother world, for the cafe plainly is this, an ill manwill not ftick at any falfehood to promote his defign,fo, as little wbil an evil foul departed, ftand at anything that can make him fuccelsful, but in makingreport, he mutt tell the truth, <jr wo be to him; butbefides their monthly, quarterly, yearly or weeklymeetings, or what ever they be, departed fouls ac¬quainted, may take a trip to fee and converfe withone another yearly, weekly, daily, or oftener if theypleafe. Thus then I anfwer your queftion, that youwere fo much concerned about, for my informationwas from no lefs than 3 perfons, vir.. Andrew Aik-man, who attends Thurfton’s family, James Corbet,who waits upon Mr. Faton, who was at your houfe:and an original emifiary appointed to wait upon yours.Ogi/.J At this, I was much furpri/ed, and, aftera little thinking, I alked him, And is there really,Cool, an emiflary from hell, in whatever fenfe youtake it, that attends my family ?Cod. ] Yes, you may depend upon it.Ogil.] And what do-you think is his bufinefs ?Coo/. ] To divert you from your duty, and caufeyou, underhand, to do as many ill things as he can,for 'much depends on having the minifter on theirfide. Upon this I was ftruek with a fort of terror,which I cannot account for, nor exprefs: in the meantime, he fasd feveral things that I did not underftand,but after a little, I coming to my former prefence ofpaind, fair!, Ogil.JCOOL AND OGILVY. nOgzV.] But Cool, tell me in earneft, if there be indeeda devil that attends my family tho’ inviuble to us all?Cool.'] Jufi: as fure as you are breathing; but benot fo much dejedled upon this information; for Itell you likewife, that there is a good angel that at*tends you, that is ftronger than the other.Ogil.] Are you fure of that. Cool ?Cool.] Yes, there is now one riding on your right-hand, who might as well have been elfewhere, for Imeant you no harm.Ogil.] And how long has he been with me ?Cool.] Only fince we paffed Brand’s Lee, but nowhe is gone.Ogtl.] We are juft now upon Elenfcleugh, and Idefire to part with you, tho’ perhaps I have gainedmore by our converfation, than I would have done o-therwile in a twelvemonth. I clrufe rather to fee youanother time, when you are at leifure, and I wifh itwere at as great a diftance from Innerwick as yon can.Cool.] Be it fo. Sir, I hope you’ll be as obligingto me next rencounter, as I’ve been to you this.Ogil.] I ptomife you I will, in as far as it is confift-ent with my duty to my Lord and Maftcr ChristJesus ; and Once you have obliged me fo much byinformation, I will anfwer all the queftions you prp-pofe, as far as confifts with my knowledge, but I be¬lieve you want tio information from me.Cool.] I come not to be inftrudfed by you; but Iwant your help of another kind,Upon the ninth of April 1724, as I was return¬ing from Oldhamftock, Cool came up with me onhorfeback, at the foot of the ruinous inclofure, be¬fore we came to Dod; I told him, his iait converfa¬tion had proved fo acceptable to me, that I was wellpleafed to fee him again, and that there was a vaftnumber of things that I wanted to inform myfelffurther of, if he would be fo good as to fatisfy me.Cool.] Laft time v/e met I refufed you nothingyou alked, and now I expeft that you’ll refufe menothing that I {hail alk. Ogil.]r* CONFERENCES BETWIXTOgil.] Nothing, Sir, that is in my power, or thatI can with fafety to my reputation and charadler.What then are your demands ?CW.l Ail that I defire of you is. That as you pro*mifed that Sabbath-day, you would go to my wife,who now pofTenes all my efFefts, and tell her the fol¬lowing particulars, and tell her in my name to rec¬tify the matters. Firlt, That I was owing juftly toProvoft Crofby 500I. Scots, and three years iuterelt:but upon hearing of his death, my good-brother thelaird of Chappel and I, forged a difcharge, narratedthe bond, the fum and other particulars, with thisonerous elaufe, that at the time it was fallen by, andcould not be found j w ith an obligation on the Pro-volt’s part to deliver up the bond, as foon as he couldhit upon it; and this difcharge was dated 3 monthsbefore the Provoft’s death ; and when his fon andfuccelTor Andrew' Crofoy wrote to me concerning thisbond, I came to him, and (hewed him the difcharge,which filenced him; fo that I got out my bend with¬out more ado. And when I heard of Robert Kenne¬dy’s death, with the fame help of Chappel, I got abill upon him for topi, of which l got full and com¬plete payment, and Chappel got the lalf. When Iw as at Dumfries, the day that Thomas Grier died, towhom I was owing an account of 36I. Chappel, mygoad-brother, was then at London, and not beingaide of n* felf, being but a bad writer, to get a dif¬charge of .the account, which I wanted exceedingly;I mtet accidentally with. Robert Boyd, a poor writerlad in Dumfries, 1 took him to Mrs. Cornock’s, andgave him a bottle of wine, and told him that I hadpaid Thomas Grier’s account but wanted a ditcharge,and if he would help me to it, I would reward him;He fled away from me in a great paifion, faying, Hewould rather be hanged, but if I had a mind for thefethings, l had better wait till Chappcl came home.This gave me great trouble, fearing that what Chap-pei and I had done formerly was no fecret, I followedCOOL AND OGILVY. 13ij Boyd to the ftreet, made an apology that I was jeft-i ing, commending him for his honeity, and took himfolemnly engaged, never to repeat what had paffed.i I fent for my coufiii Barnhewrie, your good-brother,who, with no difficulty, for a guinea and a half, un¬dertook and performed all that I wanted, and for ajl guinea more, made me up a difcharge for 200I. Scots,jl that I was owing to your father-in-law, and his friendH Mr. Muirhead; which discharge I gaVe to John Ew-ijf art, when he defired the money; and he, at my de-| fire, produced it to you, which you fuftained. A:; great m^ty the like inftances were told, of which I' cannot remember the perfons’ names and things: Butsfays he, what vexes me move than all thefe, is the|| injuftice I did to Homer Maxwe), tenant to my Lord!' Nithfdale, for whom I was fa£lor: I borrowed 2«oo1 merks from him, 500 of which he had borrowed fromit another hand; I gave him my bond, and for reafons I! contrived, obliged him to iecrecy; he died within theI year, and left nine children, and his wife had diedbefore himfelf. I came to feal up his papers for myLord’s fecurity: his eldeft daughter entreated me tolook through them all, and to give her an accountwhat was their ftock and what was their debt; 1 ve¬ry willingly undertook it, and in going thro’ the pa¬pers, I ^>ut my own bond in my pocket: His circum-fiances proved bad, and his nine children ave» nowftarving. Thefe things I delire you to reprefent to mywife, and take her brother with you, and let thembe immediately redlified, for (he has fufficient fundsto do it upon ; and if it were done, I think I wouldbe eafy and happy; therefore I hope you’ll make nodelay. After a fhort paufe, I anfwered, ’l is a good1 errand, Cool, you are feuding me to do juilice to theoppvefied and injured, but notwithftanding that I feemyfeif come in for 2o«l. Scots ; yet I beg a littletime to confider on the matter ; and fince I find youarc as much maftev of reafon now as ever, and moreI than ever, I will firfl reafon on. the matte”, in hogenerali4 CONFERENCES BETWIXTgeneral view, and then with refpeft to the expedi ¬ency of my being the mefTenger, and this I will dowith all manner of franknefs. From what you havefaid, I fee clearly, that your prefent ftate is fo, thatI need not aft: more queftions upon that head, andyou need not bid me take courage, and not be afraidof you, for at this moment, Fm no more afraid ofycu, than of a new-born child.Cool.'] Well, fay on.0^/7. ] Tei! me then, fince fuch is your ability, thatyou can Sy a thoufand miles in the twinkling of aneye, if your defire to do thefe opprefied juftice, beas great as you pretend, what is the reafon you donot fiy to the coffers of fome rich Jew or Banker,where there are ten thoufands of gold and filver: in-vifibly lift, and invifibly return it into the coffers ofthe injured. And fince your wife has fufficient fundand more, why cannot you empty her purfes, in yourinvifibiltfy, to make thofe people amends ?Cool.] Becaufe I cannot.Ogil j If thefe things be rectified you would beeafy and happy: I do not at all credit that, for what¬ever juftice may be done to the people, yet the guiltof the bafe action always remains upon you.Coo/.] Now you think you have filenced ae, andgained a notable victory, but I will {how you thenriftake immediately; for I cannot touch any gold ormoney, by reafon of thefe fpirits that are die ftatedguardians of juftice and honefty.Ogi/.j What is that you tell me, Cool ? Do notunworthy fellows break houfes every night? and yetyou that can put yourfelf into fo many hundred dif¬ferent {hapes in a moment, cannot do it: What isthat you tell me, Cool ?Ceel.] 'Tis true, Sir, but againft the living, menmay find out fome probable means of fecuring them-felves, but if fpirits departed were allowed that, noman would be fscure; for in that cafe, every manthat I had a prejudice at, would loon be beggared.- ♦ jr nCOOL AND OGILVY. 15Ogil.~] Might you not go to the mines of Mexicbijind Peru, where thefe iittle furns will not be miffed?Cool. ] No, Sir, for the fame reafon.| But, Cool, there is fo much treafure loft infehe fea, you may eafily dive into the bottom of it,Ifejrch that, and refund thofe people their Ioffes,(where no man is injured.i Cool.-] You are a little too forward this night, Sir,■and inclined much to banter, what I have faid mightI'fatisfy you; but fince it does not, I’ll tell you further,that no fpirits, good or bad, have power to take anymoney or gold : the good never do, tho’ the bad, iftone in an age, ’tis no fmall quarrel, for if we werej| allowed them, then they would" be very fuecefsful inI their hufinefs, and never fail of gaining their points.Ogil.j What hinders them. Cool ?Cm/.] Superior pov/ers that guard and govern *11.Ogi/ J You have fatisfied me intirely upon thathead, but pray, Cool, what is the reafon that you|i cannot go to your wife yourfelf, and tell her whatjj you have a mind; I rhould think this a much farerJ'j Way to gain your point.Css/.'] Becaufe I will not.Ogil.2 That does not fatisfy me, Cool.Cool.2 That is one of the questions that I told youlong ago, I would not anfwer, but if you go as Idefired, I promife to give you full fatisfadtion, afteryou have done your bufinefs: Truft me for once,and believe me I will not difappoint you.Upon the 10th of April 1724, coming from Old-hermes upon the poft-voad, I met with Cool, uponthe head of tire path called the Peafe. He alked meif I had confidered the matter he had recommended?I told him I had, and was in the fame opinion 1 wasin when we parted; that I could not podibly under¬take his commiffion, unlcf? he could give me it inwriting under his hand. 1 fold fum that the lift ofthe^grieVances were lb great, that I could not poffiblyremember them without befog in webing, and tlwteI wanted»ji5 CONFERENCES BETWIXT, &c. jI wanted nothing bu>reafon to determine • e in thaand ail affairs of my life: I know, fays he, that this-i. jia mere evafion ; but tell me if the Laird of Thurfloillwill do it? rnj.fure, faid I, he will not; and if he|fhould, I would do all that I could to hind y jiim |for I think he has as little concern in thefe matte’-Jas myfelf. But^ tell me. Cool, is it not as eafy tdlwrite your ftory as to tell it, or to ride bn what, d’ye|call him, for I forgot your horfe's name.Coo/.] No, Sir, it is not; and perhaps I may con-fvince you of the reafonablenefs of it afterwards. ^ I0^7.] I would be glad to hear a reafon that is folidfor not fpt,a'king to your wife yourfeif; but however >4any rational creature may fee what a fool I would ijmake of myfelf, if I fhouid go to Dumfries to teH:|your wif(j# that you had appeared to me, and ha^jtold me fo many forgeries and villainies that you had |committed; and that Ihe behoved to make reparation: |The event might perhaps be, that (he would fcold me; |for Ihe would be loth to part with any money (he pof- |feffes; and therefore tdl me I was mad,-or pollibly :j|purfue me for ealumny. How would I vindicate my- Jfelf ? How could I prove that you had ever fpckeiawith me? Mr Patoa and the other miniftejrs of Dum¬fries would tell ihe, it was the devil that had fpoken jto me, and why fhould I repeat thefe things for truth,which he, that was a liar from the beginning, h^d toldme? Chnppel and Barnhewrie would be upon my top,and purfue. me before the Commiffavies ; and everybody would look upon me as brain-Gck or mad; there- jfore I entreat you, do not infill upon fending me an ^April errand. The reafonabienefs of my demands, Ileave to y^ur.own confideration, as you did your for- ^mer to mine ': But dropping thefe matters, till ournext interview, give me leave to enter upon fome morediverting fubje£ls; and I don’t know. Cool, but the ■information you have given me, may dp as niuch fer-vice to mankind, as the pedrefs of all thufe grievanceswould amount to. Mr. Ogilvy ffied very ioon afFINIS.