THEWAYT OWEALTH.OF SCOTUHP>^OiNBU^Y A ■; • O' T ■THEWAY to WEALTH,AS clearly shewn in thePreface of an old Penfylvania Almanack,I N T I T L E D,Poor Richard Improved.Courteous Reader,I HAVE heard, that nothing gives an authorfo great pleafure, as to find his works re-fpe&fully quoted by others. Judge, then, howmuch I muft have been gratified by an incidentI am going to relate to you. I flopped myhorfe lately, where a great number of peoplewere collefted, at an au&ion of merchantsgoods. The hour of the fale not being come,they were converfing on the badnefs of thetimes; and one of the company called to aplain, clean old man, with white locks, Pray,B Father[ 2 JFather Abraham, what think you of the times?Will not thefe heavy taxes quite ruin thecountry ? How ftiall we be ever able to paythem ? What would you advife us to ? Father Abraham flood up, and replied. If youwould have my advice, I will give it you inAloft} *4 for a word to the wife is enough,”as Poor Richard fays. They joined in deflringhim to fpeak his mind, and gathering roundhim, he proceeded as follows:Friends, (fays he) the taxes are, indeed, veryheavy ; and, if thofe laid on by governmentwere the only ones we had to pay, we mightmore eafily difcharge them; but we have manyothers, and much more grievous to fome of us.We are taxed twice as much by our idlenefs,three times as much by our pride, and fourtimes as much by our folly; and from thefetaxes the commiffioners cannot eafe or deliver■us, by allowing an abatement. However, letus hearken to good advice, and fomething maybe done for us: “ God helps them that help“ themfelves,” as Poor Richard fays.It would be thought a hard government thatfhould tax its people one tenth part of their, time,r 3 3time, to T>e employed in its fervlce: But idlq-nefs taxes many of us much more; doth, bybringing on difeafes, abfolutely flxortens life.<c Sloth, like ruft, confumes fafter than labour“ wears, while the ufed key is always bright,”as Poor Richard fays. “ But doft thou love“ life, then do not fquander time, for that is“ the fluff life is made of,” as Poor Richardfays.—How much more than is necefiary dowe fpeiid in fleep! forgetting that “ The*' fleeplng fox catches no poultry, and thatthere will be fleeping enough in the grave,”as Poor Richard fays. “ If time be of allthings the mod: precious, wafting time mud:“ be,” as Poor Richard fays, “ the greateftce prodigality fmce, as he elfewhere tells us,“ Loft time is never found again; and whatwe call time enough, always proves littlq“ enough Let us then up and be doing, anddoing to the purpofe; fo by diligence we ftialldo more with lefs perplexity. “ Sloth makes“ all things difficult, but induftry all eafy ;“ and, He that rifeth late, muft trot all day,“ and ftiall fcarce overtake his bufinefs atnight; while lazinefs travels fo dowly, that“ poverty foort overtakes him. Drive thy“ bufinefs, let not that drive thee j and, EarlyB 2 “toC 4- Jft to bed, and early to rife, makes a man“ healthy, veukhy, and wife,” as Poor Rich¬ard fays.So what fignifies wifhing and hoping forbetter times ? We may make thefe times bet¬ter, if we beftir ourfelves. “ Induflry need not“ wilh : and, He that lives upon hope will die<c falling. There are no gains without pains ;te then Help hands, for I have no lands,” or,if I have, they are fmartly taxed. “ He that“ hath a trade, hath an eftate ; and he that“ hath a calling, hath an office of profit and“ honour,” as Poor Richard fays; but thenthe trade mull: be worked at, and the callingwell followed, or neither the eftate nor thebffice will enable us to pay our taxes.—If weare induftrious, we lhall never ftarve; for,“At the working man’s houfe hunger looks“ in, but dares not enter.” Nor will the bai¬liff or the conftable enter, for, “ Induftry pays“ debts, while defpair increafeth them.” Whatthough you have found no treafurc, nor has anyrich relation left you a legacy, “ Diligence is“ the mother of good luck, and God gives all“ things to induftry. Then plough deep,“ while fluggards fleep, and you lhall have“ cornt 5 5li corn to fell and to keep.” Work while it iscalled to-day, for yon know not how muchyou may be hindered to-morrow, “ One to-4; day is worth two to-morrows,” as PoorRichard fays ; and farther, “ Never leave that44 till to-morrow, which you can do to-day.”If you were a fervant, would you not beafhamed that a good matter fliould catch youidle? Are you then your own matter? Beathamed to catch yourfelf idle, when there isfo much to be done for yourfelf, your family,your country, and your king. Handle yourtools without mittens; remember, that 44 The44 cat in gloves catches no mice,” as PoorRichard fays. It is true, there is much to bedone, and, perhaps, you are weak-handed ; butttick to it fteadily, and you will fee great ef-fe£ts; for 44 Conftant dropping wears away44 ftones ; and. By diligence and patience the44 moufe eat in two the cable; and, Little44 ftrokes fell great oaks.”Methinks I hear fome of you fay, 44 Mutt44 a man afford himfelf no. leifure ?”—I willtell thee, my friend, what Poor Richard fays ;44 Employ thy time well, if thou meaneft to44 gain leifuie; and, fmce thou art not fme ofB j 44 a minute.f 6 3“ a minute, throw not away an hour.” Lei-Xure is time for doing fomething ufeful; thisleifore the diligent man will obtain, but thelazy man never j for “ A life of leifure and a“ life of lazinefe are two things. Many, with-u out labour, would live by their wits only,“ but they break for want of flock ;” whereas,induftry gives comfort, and plenty, and refpedh“ Fly pleafures, and they will follow you.“ The diligent fpinner has a large fhift; and,“ Now I have a fheep and a cow, every body“ bids me good-morrow.”But with our induftry we muft likewife befteady, fettled, and careful, and overfee our ownaffairs with our own eyes, and not truft toomuch to others; for, as Poor Richard fays,“ I never few an oft-removed' tree,“ Nor yet an oft-removed family,*c That throve fo well as tbofe that fettled be.”And again, “ Three removes is as bad as a fire;”and again, “ Keep thy ftiop, and thy ftiop will“ keep thee ;” and again, “ If you would have“ your bufinefs done, go ; if not, fend.” Andagain.Het 7 1“ He that by the plough would thrive,“ Himfelf muft either hold or drive.”And again, “ The eye of a mafter will -do“ more work than both his hands and again,“ Want of care does us more damage than“ want of knowledgeand again, “ Not to“ overfee workmen, is to leave them your“ purfe open.” Trufting too much to otherscare is the ruin of many; for, “ In the affairs“ of this world, men are faved, not by faith,“ but by the want of itBut a man’s owncare is profitable; for, “ If you would have a“ faithful fervant, and one that you like, ferve<c yourfelf. A little negle£t may breed great“ mifchief; for want of a nail, the flroe wa?“ loft; for want of a (hoe the horfe was loft;“ and for want of a hprfe the rider was loft,”being overtaken and ilain by the enemy ; all forwant of a little care about a horfe-fhoe nail.So much for induftry, my friends, and at¬tention to one’s own bufmefs; but to thefe wemuft add Frugality, if we would make ourinduftry more certainly fuccefsful. A man may,if he knows not how to fave as begets, <c Keep“ his nofe all his life to the grind-ftone, andB 4 “ d>eI 8 ]“ die not worth a groat at laft. A fat kitchen“ makes a lean willand“ Many eftates are fpent in the getting,<e Since women for tea forfook fpinning andknitting,** And men for punch forfook hewing andfplitting.”“ If you would be wealthy, think of faving,“ as well as of getting. The Indies have not** made Spain rich, becaufe her outgoes are<c greater than her incomes.”Away, then, with your expenfive follies,and you will not then have fo much caufe tocomplain of hard times, heavy taxes, andchargeable families ; for“ Women and wine, game and deceit.Make the wealth fmall, and the want great.vAnd farther, “ What maintains one vice, would“ bring up two children.” You may think,perhaps, that a little tea, or a little punch nowand then, diet a little more coftly, cloaths alittle finer, and a little entertainment now andthen, can be no great matter; but remember.Many[ 9 ]“ Many a little, makes a mickle.” Beware oflittle expences “ A fmall leak will fink a“ great. (hip,” as Poor Richard fays; andagain, “ Who dainties love, fliall beggars<c prove ” and moreover, “ Fools make feafts,“ and wife men eat thenj.”Here you are all got together to this fale offineries and nick-knacks. You call them goods ^but, if you do not take care, they will proveevils to feme of you. You expect they will befold cheap, and, perhaps, they may for lefs thanthey coft ; but, if you have no occafion torthem, they muft be dear to you. Rememberwhat Poor Richard fays, “ Buy what thou haft“ no need of, and ere long thou flialt fell thy“ neccffaries.” And again, “ At a great pen-“ nyworth paufe a while.” He means, thatperhaps the cheapnefs is apparent only, and notreal ; or the bargain, by ftraitening thee in thybufinefs, may do thee more harm than good.For in another place he fays, “ Many have“ been ruined by buying gpcJ pennyworths.”Again, “ It is foolith to lay out money in a“ purchafe of repentance and yet this follyis pra£lifed every day at audlions, for want ofminding the. Almanack. Many a one, for the. >> fake[ io 3fake of finery on the back, have gone with ahungry belly, and half ftarved their families.“ Silks and fattins^ fcarlet and velvets, put out“ the kitchen-fire,” as Poor Richard fays.Thefe are not the neceflaries of life ; they canfcarcely be called the conveniencies; and yetonly becaufe they look pretty, how many wantto have them ? By thefe, and other extrava¬gancies, the genteel are reduced to poverty,and forced to borrow of thofe whom they for¬merly defpifed, but who, through induftry andfrugality, have maintained their Handing; inwhich cafe it appears plainly, that Aplough-“ man on his legs is higher than a gentleman“ on his knees,” as Poor Richard fays. Per¬haps they have had a fmall eftate left them,which they knew not the getting of; theythink, “ It is day, and will never be night;”that a little to be fpent out of fo much is notworth minding ; but “ Always taking out of“ the meal-tub, and never putting in, fcon<£ comes to the bottom,” as Poor Richard fays ;and then, “ When the well is dry, they know“ the worth of water.” But this they mighthave known before, if they had taken his ad¬vice : “ If you would know the value of money,“ go and try borrow feme; for, He that“ goesr ii i“ goes a borrowing, goes a forrowing,” asPoor Richard fays; and, indeed, fo does he'that lends to fuch people, when he goes to getit in again.—Poor Dick farther advifes and fays,“ Fond pride of drefs is fare a very curfe;“ Ere fancy you confult, confult your purfe.’*And again, “ Pride is as loud a beggar as want,,and a great deal more fancy.” When youj have bought one fine thing, you muft buy tenmore, that your appearance may be all of apiece j but Poor Dick fays, “ It is eafier to“ fupprefs the firft defire, than to fatisfy all“ that follow itAnd it is as truly folly forthe poor to ape the rich, as for the frogto fwellyin order to equal the ox.“ Veflels large may venture more,“ But little boats Ihould keep near fhore.”It is, however, a folly foon punifhed ; for, as;Poor Richard fays, “ Pride that dines on Va-“ nity, fups on Contempt; Pride breakfafteJ“ with Plenty, dined with Poverty, and fupped“ with Infamy.” And, after all, of what uf^is this pride of appearance, for which fo much-ist Tk riflced, fo much is fuffered ? It cannot pro ¬mote health, nor eafe pain; it makes no in-creafe of merit in the perfon, it.creates envy,it haftens misfortune.But what madnefs muft: it be to run hi deltfbr thefe fuperfluities ? We are offered, by theterms of this fale, fix months credit ; and that,perhaps, has induced fome of us to. attend it,becaufe we cannot fpare the ready money, andhope now to be fine without it. But, ah i thinkwhat you do when you run in debt; you giveto another power over your liberty. If youcannot pay at the time, you will be afharaedto fee your creditor; you will be in fear whenyou fpeak to him ; you will make poor, pitiful,fneaking excufes, and, by degrees, come to lofeyour veracity, and fink into bafe, downrightlying ; for, “ The fecond vice is lying, the“ firft is running in debt,” as Poor Richardfays; and again, to the fame purpofe, “Lying“ rides upon Debt’s back whereas a free¬born Englifhman ought not to be afliamed norafraid to fee or fpeak to any man living. Butpoverty often deprives a man of all fpirit andvirtue. “ It is hard for an empty bag to ftand“ upright,” What would you think of thatprince,f *3 1prince, or of that government, who fhouldiffue an edi£f forbidding you to drefs like agentleman or a gentlewoman, on pain of im-prifonment or fervitude ? Would you not faythat*you were free, have a right to drefs as youpleafe, and that fuch an edi£t would be a breachof your privileges, and fuch a government ty¬rannical ? And yet you are about to put your-felf under that tyranny, when you run in debtfor fuch drefs ! Your creditor has authority, athis pleafure, to deprive you of your liberty, by-confining you in gaol for ]ife,sor by felling youfor a fervant, if you fhould not be able to payhim. When you have got your bargain, youmay perhaps think little of payment; but, asPoor Richard fays, “ Creditors have better rtie-“ mories than debtors; creditors are a fuper-“ ftitious feft, great obfervers of fet-days and“ times.” The day comes round before youare aware, and the demand is made before youare prepared to fatisfy it; or, if you bear yourdebt in mind, the term, which at firft feemedfo long, will, as it leffens, appear extremelyfhort: Time will feem to have added wings tohis heels, as well as his fhoulders. “ Thofe<t have a fhort Lent, who owe money to be“ paid at Eafter.” At prefent, perhaps, youmayr t* jrnay think yourfelves in thriving circumftances,and that you can bear a little extravagancewithout injury; but“ For age and want fave while you may,tc No morning-fun lafts a whole day.”Gain may be temporary and uncertain ; butever, while you live, expence is conftant andcertain ; and, “ It is eafier to build two chirrt-*( nies, than to keep one in fuel,”' as PoorRichard fays : So, “ Rather go to bed fupper-“ left, than rife in debt.”“ Get what you c5n, and what you get, hold;“ ’Tis the ftone that will turn all your leadinto gold.”And when you have got the philofopher’s ftone,fure you will no longer complain of bad times,or the difficulty of paying taxes.This do&rine, my friends, is reafon andwifdom. But, after all, do not depend toomuch upon your own induftry, and frugality,and prudence, though excellent things, for theymay all be blafted, without the bleifing of Hea¬ven ;ven ; and therefore aflc that blefling humbly,and be not uncharitable to thofe that at prefentfeem to want it, but comfort and help them.Remember, Job fuffered, and was afterwardsprofperous.And now to conclude, “ Experience keeps a“ dearfchool, but fools will learn in no other,”(as Poor Richard fays) and fcarce in that; for,it is true, “ We may give advice, but we can-“ not give conduft.” However, remember this,“ They that will not be counfelled, cannot be“ helped j” and farther, that If you will“ not hear Reafon, fhe will furely rap your“ knuckles,” as Poor Richard fays.Thus the old gentleman ended his harangue.The people heard it, and approved the doc¬trine, and immediately practifed the contrary,juft as if it had been a common fermon ; for theauction opened, and they began to buy extrava¬gantly.—I found the good man had thoroughlyftudied my Almanacks, and digefted all I haddropt on thofe topics during the courfc oftwenty-five years. The frequent mention hemade of me muft have tired any one elfe; butmy vanity was wonderfully delighted with it ;* thoughr is ]though I was confcious, that not a tenth part 6fthe wifJom was my own, which he afcribed tome, but rather the gleanings that I had madeof the fenfe of all ages and nations. However,I refolved to be the better for the echo of it;and though I had at firft determined to buy flufffor a new coat, I went away, refolved to wearmy old one a little longer. Reader, if thouwilt do the fame, thy profit will be as greatas mine.I am, as ever.Thine to ferve thee,RICHARD SAUNDERS.   .-■Mama- ,