WITH BIS COAT BUT70X'D BElWZBBeing an Elegant Con?shshcf bet-.vixt English TOM’and Irish TEAGUE with PADY's C*techiskhis Opinion of Purgatory, the State of the D(«dt—»and his Supplication when a Mountain Sailor.is ADDED,BU CREED FOR ALL ROmSE BELIEVE*.62 COMICAL Sayisgs of PADY fRom CORK.PART tTom. OOD morrow, Sir this u a very cold day.VJT Teag. Arra, dear honry.yefterniglu wasa very cold morning.Tom. Well brother traveller, of what nation art thou?Teag. Arra, dear fhoy, I came from my own kingdom.Tom. Why fir, I know that but where is thy kingdom.Tcag. Allrlicu, dear honey jdor/T you know Cork inIreland ?iom* O you fool, Cork is not a kingdom but a city.Teag. Then dear honey I am Cure it is in a kingdom.Tom. And what is the rcafon you have come and leftyour owh dear country.Teag. Ana, dear honey, by fliaint Patrick, they havegot fuch comical laws in our country, that they’ll put aman to death in perfeft health ; for to be free and plain■with you neighbour, 1 was obliged to come away, for Idid not chufe to flay among fuch a people that can hanga poor man when they pleafe, if he either fteals, robs, oi'kiiis a man.Tom. Ay but I take you to be more of an boneft manthan to fteal rob, or kill a man.Teag Honeft I am perfcftly honed, when T was buta child my mother would ha^ruded me with a houfefullof mill ftones.-Tom. What wasthe mattrt1 was you guilty of nothing?Teag. Arra dear honey, I did harm to no body ; butfancied an old gentlcmaa’s gun, and afterwards made itmy ownTom. Verf well boy, and did you keep it fo.Teag. Kefep it I would have kept it with all my heart,■while I liv’d death itfelf would not have parted us, but•»he old rogue the gentleman being a juflicc of the peacehimfelf had me tried for the rights of it, and how I cameby it and fo took it again.Tom And how did you dear yourfelf without punifit-metitTeag. Arra, dear honey, I td!d them a parcel! of lies,but they would not believe me. for 1 fa id that I got iti>©*t my father when it was a little piftol, and I hadkc«ped it til! it had grown a gun, and dedgncd toule itwell until it had grown a big cannon and then fell it tothe military. 1 hey all fell a laughing at as I hadbeen a fool and bid me go home to my mother and clemthe potatoes.Tom. Andhowlong is it fmcc you left yout own countryTeas- Arra. dear honey I do not mind whether it bea fortnight or four months, but l think myfelf it is along time, they tell me my mother is dead fince, but Iwon’t believe it, until I get a letter from her own hand,for (lie U a very good fcholar fuppofc (he can neitherread nor write.Tom. Was you ever in England before ?T«ag) Ay that £ was and in Scotland too.Tom. y^nd were they kind to you jvheu you was if.Scotland ?Tcag. They were that kind that they kicked my arfcforme, and the reafon was becaufe I would not pay thewhole of the liquortbat was drunk in the Company, tho‘the landlord and his t wo fans got mquthfuli about of it;they would have me pay it till, tho’ I did not drink it *Hand I told them it was a trick upon travellers, Si d to drinktheir liquor and then to kick them out of doors.Tom. I really think they pfed you badly, but couldyou not beat tbem.Teag. That's wha* I did, beat them all to their ownconterrtment ; but there Way one of them ftronger thatme, who would have killed me, if the ether ya had notpulled me away, and I had Co run for i: tijU his paffioowas over ; then they made us drink and gree again ;{hook hands, and made a bargain never to i:>r.n othermore ; but this bargain did not laft, for as I was kiiTi ighis mouth, by flttiot Patrick I hit his note, which eauiedhim to beat me lore far my pniusTom. Well Pady, what calling was yqu when in Scot*Teag. Why fir, I was no bufiuv’fs *t aU ; but whatdo you call the green ti«e, that's like a vi;in-hqfh, manypeople makes a thing to fweep the bqufc with it ?Tom* Q yes they call it a ofoo/n. ,Teag. Ay. ay, you have it, then f pvas a gefitiemfu’*broom, only waited on his herfen, and walbcd the difhesfhr the cook; and whon my matter rede a-hunting, I ranbehind, along with the dog«.Tom, O yes, Pady, it was the groom you mean, butI fancy you was cook’s mate or kitchen-hoy,Tcag. No, no, it war the broom that* I was, and ifhad faid there till now, I might have been advanced ashigh as my matter, for the ladies loved me fo well, thatthey langbed at me-Tom. They might admire you for « fool.Teag. What fir, do yon imaginr that I am not a fool,no, no, my matter afted counfel of me in all his matters,and I always gave him (eafons 'for every thing. J toldhim one morning that he went too focn to the hunting,that the hares were not got out of their beds; and nei.ther the barking of horns, nor blowing of the dogs couldmake them rife, it was fucb a cold -rorain^ that night;fo they all ran away that we catched, *hen we din eotfee them. Then m - matter told my words to feverai gea-tleHsen that was in at dinner with him, and they adm^edire for want of wifdwn. faying, I was certainly a man ofgreat judgment, for my head was all of a lump. anda4dedtht^ were going a-fiftiing al©*g with my matter and mein the afternoon; but I told them, it was a very unhappyth.ng for any man to go a-bunting in the morning and a-fifhing in the afternoon; yet they would try it; but theyhad better (laid at home, for it came an a mott terribleineniuht of fouth-wett rain and evendown wind; fothe£flicsgot all in below the water to keep them dry from the.ihower, and wa catched them all, but got none of hem„Tom. And how long did you A rve that gentleman ?Teag. Ana, dear honey, 1 was with bias fix weeks,and he heat me fevtn time*1 om. Fjr »b»t did he beat ycu ? was it for yourmadnefs and foolifh tricks ?I'eag Dear fhoy, it was not, but for being too in*quifitive and going fnarply about bufinefs, F>rfl, he featme to the poft effire, to enquire if there was toy lettersfor him ; fo when 1 came there, laid I, is there an-, let¬ters here for my miller to day? ■ heu they afited m. whowas my matter; f r, ('aid I, it it very bad manners in youpiDY PROM CORK. Stoaskanvpru, > .'• on. mt VtthiiiacylaU i^v’^ nnc,<*ing mtt uni f •.!•.% they w .uW ;»e j^c aoae 'f *■ w ’" 'ottell my me; f* I r<?tirti<-d to my Bialtf’ aritold the imp. w . ce of the ' ^ be ■would .ive meno lettera »n!e« 1 would teU them vou< Dame, maftf- .vlymailer at »h>* flew in a grat paflicn and kicked me downftaira, faj ing, go you rogue and rel! my name direftlv;how can th« gent'<em’.n give letter-, when he knm-v otwho is asking for them. The t returned and told myhi- fter’s name, fo they told me there was one for^him; ^ Ilooked at it, being very fmal!, and asking the price of it,they told me it was flxpence; fiXpence. faid I. wi'l youtake fixpecce for that fnaall thing and felling higg »r onesfor twopence, faith I am not fuch a big Fool, you think tocheat me . nowthii is not a ronfcicnable way of dealing,I’ll acquaint my mafler of it firft; fo I came and told himhow they would have fixpence for hia Utter, and was fellingbigger ones fertwopeace, he took up my head and brokehia cane with it, calling me a thoufand fools, laying* theman vaa more juft than to take any thing bet the rightfor i*: but I was lure there was none of the right btymgand felling fuch a dear penny worth; fo 1 esme a;-ai > formy dear lixpence letter ; and the feJbw waa fhuiUingthrough a pat cel of them fe«k ng for it r<gain, to makethe b ft of a dear junket, I picked up two, and h-une'T comes to. nay matter, I thinking he wou d he wellpkaffd with what I had done ; now, faid I, matter, tthink I have put a trick on them fejio vu for felling theletters fo dear to y ou. Whnt have ycu done ? faid he,(aid I, 1’fe ebly taken two other, jet ten ; here’s one foryou, matter, .to Jitlp your dear pennyworth, and l’}lfend the other to my mother, to fee whether (he’s deadr* alive, ,for ftiye always arigvy I uou’: wiite to her.3 had not the word well fpoken till he got up his ftfckand btft me kemU' for* it,, and feet me back to thefollow again with the two‘ "t had very til will to go,but nobody, jicuid buy them' of hie 5y the way.Tom. 4 '.*011, Pady, I think you was to blame andyour matter too, for he ought to have taught you howto have gone about tbofe affairs and not beat you fo.Teag. Arrr. ces hon'**’. J h?^too r-uch. >• i* of «nv6 P^DY FROM CORK,cm to be torched by hiin or acy body elfe, he hegtato inftitA me after that, hew I fhould ferve the table,and fuch naffy tKirgs as thofe ; one night I took ben aroafled f,lb in one hand, a piece of bread in the o-tfur the old gentlctran was fo fancy he would not takeit, and told rr.e I ihcuM bring nothing to him withouta .mn<her below it; the fame night he was going tol ed, he railed for his dippers and a pifh pot, fo I claptin a trencher below the pifh pot, and another below thedippers and*ben I goes, cne in every hand; no foouer,did f enter the room, then he threw the pifh pot at me,whirl) brrke both my head and thepifn pot at one blow,sow faid I. the devil is in my mafter altogether, forwhat be commands at (ne time be countermands at ano¬ther. Next day I went with him to the market to buy,a fark of potatoes, I went unto the potatot monger, andaikedwhathe took for the full of a Scotchcog he weightedthen? in, be afked no lefs that fourpence, fourpencefaid I, if I were but in Dublin, I could get the full ofthat for nothing', and ic Cork and Kinfale for cheaper,them is but fmall things like peafe, faid I, but thepotatoes in my cc unrry is as big as your head, fine meatall made up in blcffcd mouthfuls; the potatoe.rnerchantcalled me o liar, abd my mafter called me a fool, io theone fell a kicking me and the otheiv a cuffing me, I wasin fuchbad bread between them that I called mylelf botha liar afid a fool to get out alive.Tom And how did you tarry your potatoes hemefrom the market.Tesg. Arra dear P oy, I carried the boife and themboth, betides a big loaf and tw o battles of wine : for Iput the cld horfe on my back and drove the potatoesbefore me ; and when 1 tied the load to the loaf 1 *adnothing ado but to carry the bottles in my hand, but badluck to the wr.y, as i came home, for a nail out of theheel of my foot fprurg a leak in my biog, which prickedthe very bone, fcnnTed the f!oin,abd mademyv'ery brog it- ;fdf to blood ; and I having no hameic; by me but a1 ntchet I left at horn*', I bad to beat down the r.ail withthe bottom of the bottle ; and by the book, dear fhoy,—    1   d tke wine in my moinlfcgjT»m. And hod uiuthe lofs of your bottle of wine. i,;™•r°>2. hw.,iex*°r, “c.t fcS-'and myfelf ion fo. I took .ho bo.tk a««y “ fcl“kfmUh and deHred him to mend it, that I migV 50 to(he butcher and g< t it full of bloody wat«, Vme he could not work in any thmg buta ftone out of nothing. r .Tom. And how did you tr.ck your tnafte. ou- o. theWiTelg. Wlflr the old man bejan to chide me, alkmg• me how I broke it, then I held up the other as h«ha8 my Tie ad, and let it fall on the ground on a ttonewhich broke it all to pieces likewise ; now f*ld >ter. that’s the way, and then he bent me verTuntil I had to ftiout out murder and mercy anTom. Why did you not lea.ve him when he uled you0 Twg*. Arra dear {hoy I cool'd never think to leave himwhile 1 could cat, he gave me to many good vi^ualsvandpromifed to prefer me to be Ms own uooe picker j buby (haint Patrick, I h*d to mn a« jy with my hfe or a.kwas done, eife 1 had loft inv dear (hopl and body too,byhim, and then, I came home mu&i,poorer then I wen.awav. The gr^at-big bitch dog, that was cr »beft beloved, put in her head into a pitcher to lick ou.feme milk, >whea it was in {he could not get 11 ol't>and I to fave the pitcher got the hatchet and out oit thedog's head, and then I had to break the, pitchc. before,1 got out the head, by this 1* loft both the dog and thepitcher. My mailer, hearing this, i>ore ^e would cutthe head off me, for the poor dog was made m andcou d not fee to follow anyWy. for want 01 ms eyes ;and when 1 heard of this. I ran away w.th my own head,for if I had wanted it, l had loft my eyes too, then Iwould not have teen the road to Port Patrick, throughGlcmiap, but by (haint Patrick, 1 came home al.vc m tpiteof them all.Tom. 0 rarely done,. Pady, you behaveda ma nwax'. b» "'V.’-T* 7oa Infl* Pe0PIc PwearaJ-'ATik> whatL !8 te this (haint Patrick,woric^ tL faft, dear/‘‘ ntTf He was the feeft ftiaint rn theH«° . TP‘e «$***-• •«S r^tr v ^ r^*s sSTwSs^1 T«g Ar!^ d Pe<^ l^^of'hifnrmel181ssspsitsiashts proftflioD, EDd wasgemg to run the countr. with ft,bail • Bgt n EWay t0 Eng^nJ, fo the bar-wu thinJh'^A- .C.UJOff hifl headi what coyou think he end when ! w head was cff.r™' n ^ 7-1? 3 ^ man do- T°» fool fdie vC^‘ P'f'- faAth’ U WiS "ot f«oh a big fool as tob ir k; » f °Vt:r 5° E»g^nd after thL*, aurfbrought his head along with liw °Tom. And how did he carr} his hc^.d JCd fwisr. too.1“?’ Arradearhone^becarricd his head in his teeth,for that* * 0’ *3^ ’ "• WCE l Hold—I nuft have cautionTeag, Ifjou won’t believe me, I’ll fwearitovc: again.PART II.Tcm. A Howard yea get fafeout of Scotland at lad,f^y'He hw, dear honey, when I cameto ion I si" ict, ood few my own kingdeir, I thoughta was >s.-c at henve hut 1 was dean dead and almollc ;;o' ned idee i-«ould get riding ever the water; for i«uh r:t or ten pcfTyigera a.ore,leapt into a littieyoung.•ca,.Lgyirg iut four ictn dwelling in a little bdufc ia>-■ c vrt e;d of it, which was all (hacked with deals; andst.'tcr they had pulled up her tetber.ftick, and laid herluDjpa'tei: dyer her mane, they pulled up a long big Iheethie ti ree puir cf blrt ketr, io the t'ggtn of the houfe,.nd the wind Llcw in that, which made herga'lcp up one1 ilUtd d.-as cceiher, tij] 1 thei.-ght,ft,e would bite ruaPADY FROM CORK.to tfce world’s end, if feme part of the world had notcateh’d her by the foot.Tom. fancy, Padv, vou \ra« by this time very (let.Teac. S'ck, ay, fict beyond all ficknefa, clean dead a*a door nail; for as I had loft the key ot my backfiie*I hock’d op the »err bottom of my belly, and I thoughtthat :;ver and lungs, and all.that.^had.^hould have gonetogether; then I call’d tq the fellow that held by her tailbehind to pull doJfn ids (beet and hold her head till Igot leiiure to die. and then fiy my prayers.Tom. Well then, Pady, got you fafe afttare at laft?Teag. Ay, we came .alhore very fall; but by ftltaintPatrick, I ftiall never venture my dear (houl and body infuch a young boa: again while the wind blows out ofScots Galloway.Tom. Well then, Pady, and where did you go whenyon came to Ireland again ?Teag. Arra, dear fhoy, and where did I go but tomy o*n dear coufin, who was now become very rich bythe death of the old buck his father, \yho died but a fewweeks before I went over, and the pardh had to buryhim out of pity, it had not to coft him a farthing.Tom. And what enterta nmeut or good ufage did von■get there, Pady.Teag O my dear (hoy, I * a* as kltid! y uftd as anothergentleman, for (told him I bad made fomething of it by my •travels as well as hitnfelf, but I had got no money, there-fore I had to work for my vittuals while I (hid with hieuTom. Ho, poor Pady, I fuproG^fou would not ftjvlong there.ieag. Arra dear honey‘ I could have Raid there longenough: but when a man isjpoor his friends think littleof him ; I told him I was go- g to fee my brother Ha--ry; Harry, faid he, Harry is d ad; dead, faid I. amwno kill’d him ? Why faid he, drath. Aiielicu, dearhoney, and where-did he kill him ? f,id I: in his bed,wJ he. O what for a cowardly adtion wis tba', raid I,V°., 'l a ^ in.h'18 bccl; *od what is this fell, w Jeath:laid I. Whit is h-., he is one that .11 s mo t t an t; fhead_butcher in all Cork does. Arra dear iron •- f10 PADY FP0MC0RK.on, and his broid fword by his fids, all the death’s inIreland had not killed hitn. O that impudent fellow,death, if he bad let him alone till he had died for wantof butter trtilk and potatoes, I’m fure he would havelive’d all the days of his life.Tom. In all your travels when abroad, did you neverfee none of .your -countrymen to inform you of what hap¬pened at home concerning your relations.Teag. Arra, dear fhoy, I faw none but Tom Jack, oneday on the flrcet; but when I came too him, it was nothim but one-juft like him.Tom. On what account did you go a travelling.Teag. Why a recruiting fergeant lifted me to be a cap¬tain, andafterall advanced menohigher thana foldier it-felf, but only called mehisowndear countryman recruit;for I did not know what the regiment was when I fawthem. I thought they were ail gentleman’s fons,and collegeoncrs, when I law a hex Iikc abiblc upon theirbellie’s; but whea 1 faw G. for King Geoege upon it, andR. for G—d bliPs him ; ho, ho, laid 1, 1 fliant be longTom. O then Pady you deferred from them.Teag. Ay that’s what 1 did and run to the mountainslike a wild buck, and ever finee when 1 fee any foldiersI clofe my eyes leaft they fhould look and know me.Tom. And what exploits did you do when you was a.foldier,Teag. Arra, dear honey I killed a man.Tom. And how4:4 you that ?Teag. Am, dear honey, when he dropt his fword, Idrew mine and advanced boldly to him, and then cuttedoff his foot.Tom. O then what a big fool was you: for you oughtfirff to cut off his head.Teag. Arra, dear Ihoy ; his head was cutted of beforeI engaged him, clfe I had not done it.Ton.. 0 then Pady you afted like a fool; but you arenot fuch a big fool as many take you to h;, fov. mightpafs for a pbilofoplier.t'-- A firlufifoir.mV father was a fuluPifair befidesPADY FROM COR*. Hthe juft and clearing the guilty, do you know how theycall the horfes mother.Tom. Why they call her a mare.Tcag. A marc, aye very well minded, by fhaint Patrickmy father was a mare in Cork.Tom. ^nd what riches was left you by the death ofyour mother ?Teag. A bad luck to her old barren belly, for (helived in great plenty and died in great poverty ; devouredup all or (lie died, but two hens and a pockful of potatoesa poor eftate for an Iri(h gentleman in faith.Tom. and what did you make of our hens and po*tatoes. did you fow them.Teag. Arra, dear (hoy I fowed them m my belly andfold the hens to a cadger.Tom. And what bufinefs did your mother follow afterTeag. Greatly in the merchant way.Tom. And what forts of goods did (he deal in ?'leag. Dear honey (he went through the country andfold fmall fifhes, onions, and apples; bough: hens and eggsand then hatched them hetfelf. I remember of one longnecked cock (he had of an over fea brood that Hood on th-midddi and picked all the liars out of The north weft U>they were never fo thick their Sure.Tom. Now Pady that’s a bull furpaffc* all ; but isthere none of the cock’s offspring alive in Ireland now.Teag A\ ra dear (hoy I don’t think there are, but it -is a pity there had not, for they would fly with peopleabove the lea, which would put the ule of (hips out of fa(h-ion, and there would be nobody drown’d at fca at all.Tom, Very well Pady j but in all your travels did youacr get a wife ?Teag. O that’s whatT did and a wicked wife too.Tom. And what is become of her now ? .Teag. Dear (hoy 1 cant’: tell whither (he is gone toPurgatory, or the Parifli of Pigtrantrum, for (he told meflic would certainly die tire firll opirtunity (he coaid get,as this prefect evil world was not worth the Waiting on,fo (he would go and (ee what good things is in the worldto come; and when that old rover called the Fevercame ;aging like a madman over the whol: kingdomf I '.DY I ROM CORK.'knorlctcg ihc people on the head with deadly bloys, ftswent and d:ed,oij: of fpitc, leaving me with nothing buttwo hjothirlefs ciiildrcn.Tom. O but Pady you ought to have gone to a doc¬tor. and got fome pills ancTphyfic for her.Teag. By Ihaint Pat-ick I had as good a pill of myown as any doclot in tbe kingdom could give her, andas for fneCfhing, file never could ufe fnuffner tobacco inher life.Tom. O you fool that is not wh.u I mean, you mighthave brought the do&or to feel her pulfe, and let bloodcf her if he thought it needful.I eag. Yes yes, that’s what I did ; for I ran to thed-xYor when ever fhe died, 2nd fought fomething for adead or dying woman ; the old foolifh d—! was at hisdinner and began to afk me fome dirty queftions, whichI anfwercd dillbiclly.Tpm. And vihit did he afk,.Pady.1 eag. Why, ht afkcd me how did my wife go to Hoot.To which I anfwercd the fame way that other women goto chair: f.o. faid he, that’s not what I mean, howdoes fhepurge. Ana, mafler doflor, faid I. all the fire iq Pur¬gatory won’t purge her clean, for flic has both a coldand {linking breaih. Sir, laid he, that’s not what Iyou, whether does fhe flj—t thick or thin. Arra,maficr dodor, fa:d I, it is fometirce.- fo thick and hardthat you may take it in your hand and cat it like a piece©f eheefe or pudding, and at otht: times you may drinkit, or fup it with a jpoon. At this he flew in a moft ter¬rible rage, kicked me down fta rs, and would give me no-thing to her, but-called me a dirty fcoundrel for fpeak-ing of fh‘—t before ladies.Tom. And was you furry when your wife died.Teag. Arra, dear (hoy, if any body had beat me Iwas fi: to cry myfeif.Tom. ^:id in what good order did you bury yourwi'c when .‘he died,1 tag. O my dear fiioy, (he was buried in all manner•'■fpomp, pride and fpierdour; a fine roffin and cords tnr, and within the coffin along with hcrfelf, file got a psir■ r r-w brocn a penny candle, a good hard-headed oldTUDY FROM CORK. r3hammer, with an Irifh fixptnny piece, to pay her paiTagcat the g<te, and what more could fhelook for.Vom. 1 really think you gave her enough along withher, but you ought to have cried for her,<»s if it was nomore but to be in the fafhion.Teag. And why Hioa'.d lay without forrow, whenwe hired two criers to cry all the way before her, tokeeo in the fafhian.Tom. And what do they cry before a dead womanTeag. Wny, they cry the common cry, or funeral lt-ment that is ufed in our Irifh country.ri om. And what manner of cry is that, Pady.Teag. Dear Tom, if you dem^t know I’ll tell you,whenany -Jies there is a number of criers before, faying, luff,fuff, fou, allelieu, dear honey, what ailerh thee to die, itwas not for want of good butter, milk and potatoes.PART III.Tom. *ad what did you do when^ ' your wire died.Teag- Dear honey,-what would Ido; do you think Iwas iuen a big *ccl as to die too ; I’m Cure if l had, Iwould not have got fair play. When I am not fo old yetas my Frther Vas when he died.d om. No, Pady, that is hot what I mean, but Wasyou forry, or did you weep for her <fcag. Wrep for her, by fhaint Patrick I would notweep for her, nor yet be forrv luopofe my own motherand all the women in Ireland had died feven yearsbefore I was bom.Tom. What did you do with your children when flicdied.To n. Do you imagine l was fuch a big fool »s burvmy children a’ive along with a dead woman. Arra, dearhoney, we always commonly give nothing a:ong with adead perfon, but an o'd fhirt and a winding.fheet, a brghammer, vt tli a long candle and an Irifh halfpenny piece.Fcm. Dear Pady, and what ufc do they make of all'this ?I eag. T! eo, Tom, fince you are fo inq-hfitive, y ,uy go and afk the pried;H PADY FROM CORK.Tom. What did you make of your children then PadfTeag. And whatflicmld I make of them, do you imaginethat I (hould give them into the hands of the butchersas they had been a parcel of young hogs, by fhaint Pat-Tick, I had more unaturality in me, than put them intoany hofpital as othera do.Tom. No, I fuppofe you would leave them with yourfriends ere you came away.1 eag. Ay, ay, a poor man’s friends is fometimes worfethan a profeftl'encmy ; the befl friend I ever had in theworld was my own pocket while my money lafted ; butI left, my two babes between the prieft’s door, and thepsrifh church, becaufc I thought it was a place of mercy,and then fet out to England in quell of another fortune.Tom. And did you not take good night with yourfriends ere you came away.Teag. 4rra dear honey 1 had no friends in the worldbut an Iriih half crown, and I would have been very fer¬ry to have parted with fuch a dear pockei; companion atfuch a time.Tom. t fancy Pady ydu came off with what they calla moon fliine fliting.Teag. You lie like a thief now, for I did not fee funmoon nor ftars, all the eight then ; far I fet out fromCork at the dawn of night, and l travelled twenty milesand but twelve before gloociin in the moi ning.Tom. And where did vou go.to take (hipping ’ r ,Teag. Arra dear honey, I calne to a country village,calledDublin, asblg achy asany market town in all Eng¬land, where I go*-my ft If on board a little yeung boat,with a parcel of fellows and a long leather bag, I fupof-ed them to be tinkers until I aftted what they carried inthat leather bag ; they told me it was the Englifti mailthey were going over with, then laid I, is the niilns fofennt in England, that they mufl lend over their corn toIreland to grind it; thecomica! canning fellows perfuadedme it was fo* then I went down to a little houfe below thewater hard by the rigg back of the boat, and laid medown on the leather fack, where I dept myfelf almoft to«.h till with hunger. And dear Tom to tell vou plainly,v hen I awak’d id not know where I was. but thoughtPADY FROM CORK. *SI waS dead and buried, for, I found nothing ad aroundme but wooden walls and timber above.Tom. And how did you come to yourfelf to kno*WhrreaJ° By” w dear honey, I fcratched my head ina hundred parts, and then fet me down to think uponit, fo I minded it was my wife that was dead, and notme, and that I was alive in the young poll-boat, wuhthefellows that carries over the Englilh meal to the Inih""Tom. 0 then, Pady, I am fare you wat glad whenyou found vourfelf alive.Teas. Arra dear (hoy, I was very fure I was alive,but I did not think to live long, fo I thought it wasbetter for me to deal and be bang’d then to live all mydays and die dircAly with hungar at la(V.Tom, What had vou no meat for money along withyou:Teag. Arra dear fhoy, I gave all my money to thecaptain of the hoafe, or goodman of the fhip to carry meinto fea or over to England, and when I was like toeat my old brogues for Want of vi&uals, I drew myhanger and cut the locks of their leather fack, thinkingto get a lick of their meal; but alleliru, dear (hoy, Lfound neither meal nor feeds, but a pirQ of pipers aadletters, a poor morfel jndred for a hungry man.Tom. O then Pady you laid down your honefty fornotVdng.Teag. Ay, ay, I was a great thief but got nothing to(leal.Tom. And how did you come to get vittuals at laft.Tcag. Alb lieu, dear honey, the thought of meat and.drink, death or life, and every thing die, was out ot mymind, 1 had not a thought but one.Tom. And what was that, Pady.Teag. To go down among the fifties and be,come av/.rde, then I-would have lived an eafy life all my days,having nothing to oo but drink fait water, and eat caller■eyftcrs.Tom. V/hat, Pady was you like to he drown’d again»t6_ PADY FROM CORK.iMg. Ay, ay, drown’d, as cjcan drown’d as a fifh,tor the fea blew very lend, and the wind ran fo Mgh,Aat we were all caft away fafc on fhore, and no: one ofUs drown’d at all.Tom. And where did yoc go when rou came on fhore.leag. Arra, dear honey, I was not able to g- anywhere, you rmght have ca* a knot on mv belly, I was fohollow in the middle: C I went into a gentleman’s houfeand told them the bad fortune l had of being drown’dbelweep Ireland and the foot of his garden, where wecame all fate on fhore But all the comfort [ got fromhim was a word of truth.Tom. And what was that, Pady.7 cag. Why, he told me if I had been a good boy athome, I need not to have gone fo far to psfh my for¬tune with an empty pocket. To which 1 anfwered, andwhat fignifies that, as long as I am a good workman atno trade at all.Tom. I fuppofe, Pady, the gentleman would make youdine with him.Teag. I really thought f was when I faw them toaft-mg and fkinning fo many biack chickens, which was no¬thing but a few dead crows they were going to eat: ho,ho, faid I, them is but dry meat at the belt, of all thefowls that flies, commend me to the .wing of aa ox, butall that came to my (hare, was a piece of a boiled hci-n'ng and a roafled potatoe, that was the fir ft bit of meatI ever ate in England'Tom. Well. Pady, what bufinefs did you follow afterin England when you was fo poor }1 eng. What fir, do you imagine I wan fo poor when Icame’ever on fudi an honi urablt oacalion as to lift andbring myfelf to no preferment at all. As I was an able-bodied man in the face, I thought to br made a briga¬dier, a grenadier, or a fuzzilbr, or even one of themMue gown! that holds the fiery flick to the bung-hole ofthe big camionr, when they let them off to fright av.nythe French j I was as fure na no man aiive, ere I camefiom Cork, the ieaft preferment I could get, was to bni ing-mafter to a regiment of marines, or snt of thetia. k horic itfclf.PADY FROM CORK. t7Tom. Well, Paiy, you ‘ ena to be a v?ry clever Httfemin, to be all in one body, what height are you.Teag. Arra, dear fhoy, I’m feet nothing at all binone inch.Tom. And where in England was it you tilled.Teag. Arra, dear flioy. I was going through that lit¬tle country village the famous city of Cheftcr, theftreetawas very fore by reafon of the hardnefs of my feet, andlamencfs of my brogs, but I went but very fiowly acrofathe ftreeta, from port to port is a pretty long way, butI beiuf weary, thought nothing of it; then the peoplecame all crowding to me, as if I had been a world’s won¬der, or the wandering Jew; for the rain blew in my faceand the wind wetted all my beliy, which caufed me toturn the bactfide of my coat before and the buttons be¬hind, which was a good fafeguatd to ray belly, and theftarvatscn of my naked back, as I had not a good fhirton my back.Tom. I am fure then, I’ady, they would take youfor a fool. 'l eag. No, no, fir, they admired me for my wifdom,for I always turned my buttons before wS,«„ the windblew oo behind ; but 1 wonder greatly how the peopleknew my name, and where I came trom ; for every onetold another that was Pady from Cork. I fuppofe theyknew my face by feeing ray name in the newfpapers.Pom. Well, Pady. what bufmefs did you follow inCnefter.J° b* fure I was not idle working at nothingat all, until a recruiting ferjeant came to to«n whh twoor three fellows along with him, one beating on a fiddleand another playing on a drum, tolling thtir airs thro*the I reel- as if they were going to be married ; and Ilaw tnera ccurUrg nothing but yount men; fo tobring myteif no preferment at ail, I lifted for a foi-dter, beesufe I was too kigh for a grenadier.i om. And what liitine-mooey did you get, Pady., dear ho-r«yt I got five thirteens and a pairo- tnjrlnn brogs, the guineas and the reft of the goiefwas tent away to Londo., to the king my mailer, to buyme new Hurts, a cockatfoand commctj teafing for my ha;18 rADY FEQM CORK,tfcat they rmle me fwear the majiaou* oath of devilrieagatnft the King the colours, and my captain, tellingme if ever I detert and not run away, that I fhould befhot, and then whipt to death, through the regiment.Tom. No Pady, it is firft whipt and then ftiot youmean.Teag. Arra, dear (hoy it is all one thing at lafl, butit is beft to be fhot and then whipt, the clevereft way todie I’ll Warrant you.Tom, How much pay did you get, Pady ?Teag. Do you know the little fat tall ferjeant that feedme to be a foldier.Tom. And how (hall I know them I never faw, youfool.Teag. Dear (hoy, you may know him whether youfee him or not; for his face is all bor’d in big holes withthe fmall pox, his nofe is the colour of a lobfter’a toe*and his chin like a well waflicd potatoe j he is the bigeftrogue in our kingdom, you’ll know him when he cheatsyou, and the wide world, and another mark, he dightahis mouth before he drinks, and blow* his nofe before hetftkv5 n fauff; the rogue heights me a fixuence a day, killor no kill, and when I laid Sunday and Saturday bothtogether and all the days in one day, I can’t make apenny above Gxpence of it.Tom. You (hould have kept an account, and a(k‘dyour arraars once a month. *Teag. That‘s what I did, but he read a pater-mfter,out of his prayer book wherein all our names are writ-sen ; fo much for a flop hold to my gun, buckles toa pair of comical barn hofe, with leather buttons fromtop to toe, and word of all he would have no Icf&then apenny a week to a doiStor; arra (aid I, I never had afore finger, or yet a lick toe all the days of my life, thenwhat have I to do with t be do&or, or the dodor, to dowith roe.Tom. And did he make you pay all thefe things.Teag. Ay, ay, pay and better Pay ; betook me beforehis captain, who made me pay all was in Iris book: Arramaflercaptain, faid 1, you are acomical fortofa fellow mowyou might as well make me pay ter hiy cotan bstwe 1 amTADY FROM CORK. }9;3ead, as to pay for a do£lor before I be bek ; to whichheanfwered me in a paflion, lifrah, faid he, I have feenmany abetter riamburied without a coffin ; fir faid I,then PU have a coffin, die when I will, if there be asmuch wood in all the world, or I (hall not be buried atall. Then he called for the ftrjeant, faying, you firgo and buy that man’s coffin, and put it in the ftore til!he die and flop fixpence a week of his pay for it. No,po, fir faid I, I’ll rather die without a coffin, and feckrone when I‘m dead, but if you be for clipping anotherfispence off my poor pay keep it all to youifelf, and I’llfwear aH your oaths oi agreement wchadback again, andthen feck foldiers where you will.Tom. O then Pady how did you end th< matter !Teag. Arra dear Ihoy by the mights ol (haint Patrickand help of my own broga, I both ended it and mendedit. for the next night before that, I gave them leg bail formy fidelity, and then I went about the country a fortuneteller, deaf and diirn as I was not.Tom. How old was you Pady, when yon wasafbldicrlafUTeag. Arra, dcarhoney. I was three dozen all but two,and it is only but two years fince, fo I wanted only four ofthree dozen yet and when I live fixdozen more, I’ll be olderthen I am, 1’U warrant you.Tom. O but Pady, by your account you are three do¬zen of years already.Teag. O what a big fool are you, now Tom whenyou count the yeara I lay fick ; which time I count notime at all.A NEW CATECHISM.Tom ^ opinions profeffed in religion, teilm# now Pady, of what profeffion arc thouPady. Arra, dear (boy, my religion was too weight'a matter to carry out of my own country ; I vrai at'raiithat you Englifh Prefoy terians fhould pluck it away fronme.Tom. What Pady, was your religion fuch a load tbayou could not cany it along whh you ?*0 PADY FROM COf#:.PaJy, Ye*, that it wi», but f carried it always aboutwith me when at home, my fwert c'rof* upon my dear•reait, bound to my bleft bottou-bole.b <th>m w^at maaner of wor fhip did you perform^ hy, I adored roy crofs, the Pc pc and thepneft, curfed Oliver as black as a crow and fwezrs my-w*f cut-throat againft ail proteftants and church ofPntfland mea.Tom. And what is the matter, but you would be a1 If lp or a tcots Presbyterian your-Pady. Becaufe it is unnatural fc£ an Iriilman, but hadfliaint Patrick been a Presbyterian, I had keen the fame.Tom. And for what reafon would you be a Presby¬terian then, Pady.Pady, Becaufe they have libeacV to eat flefh in Lent,and every thing that is It-for the belly.Ton. What, Pady, are you fueh a lover of flefli,that yau would change your proieffion for it.# Pady. O yea, thar’s what I would, I love flefh of allhinds, iheep s beef, fwine’s mutton, hare’s flefh, andhen's venifon ; but our religion is one of the bungrieftta all the world; ah! but it makes ray teeth to weepand my belly to watbr, when I fee the Scotch Prcsby-teriins and Englifh churchmen, in time of Lent, feed¬ing upon bull's baftards and fheep’s young children.Tom. Whv, Pady, do you lay the bull is a fornica¬te r and gets baftards ?Pady. Arra dear fhoy, I never faw the cow and l.tyhusband all the days of my life, nor yet before 1 wcahorn, going to the cdunh to be married, and what then"can h’s sons and daughters be but bnflards.Tom. O Pady, Pady, the cow- is but a tow and cosreyou; bur what re* ard will you get vfheu yo'd aredead,.for puoifHrig yrjtir belly fo while yoti ire ilivc.Pady, By fhaint Patrick 1 will live like a king wiicni am dead, for I will neither die for meat not drink.Tom. V hat. Pady, do you thirk that yen are tou ire alive again when you are dead ?Pady. O Yes, we that are true Roman Catholic*,P\DY FROM CORK. 2lwill live a lonj ciaii after w are dead, whea we die ialove with the pried*, and the good people of our pro-feflion.Tom And »hat afluraace can your prielli jive rouof that.Pady. Arra, dear Ihoy, our prieft is a great fliaintand a good fhoul, he can repeat a Pater Nofter andAve Maria, which will fr.ghten the very horned devilamfclf, and make him run for it, antil he be like tpfall aad break his nrclt.lorn, ind what does he give you when you aredying, rha* makes vou ci-me alive again.Pady. Why, he writes a letter npon our tongues,fea'ed with a wafer, give« us * laarameat in oar mouth,w ! p->rd?n, and a direftiwu in our right hand, «hoto call for at >be porta of Purgatory.d om. fVwhoTi do they rtireft the dead.. ’y. Why, th EugliUi Romans when theydia are" 1,: G -r*e» the Scots to Ihaint Andrewth vVdfli to Ihci it D vid, and our own dear country.• tt'ev- , flioulof them go »o lhai.it Patrick: burtb-i. that hav; no money to pay the prieft for a par-d«o, , o tho-e that are drowned, or die by themfelvesin i he he.** wthour a pneft, is loft and fent away a«Wa^guard fcoundrels, to wander up and down whilethe worlo Hand?, among the brownies, fairies, mermaids,te»-dr*;,i, a id jrater kelpies.Tom. And what money defign you to give the pneft*for vonr pardon rPady. Dear (hoy, I wi(h I had firft the money hewon*, take for it, I would rather drink it myfelf, „ith.r. r,e hire both my bill and my honeft word, pay-able ta the other world. ’ *>*^Tom. And how then are you to get a pafore to theother worln. or who is to carry yon there.,, m » 0 mTdesr Ihcy Tom, you know nothing ofy WJf v 1 ‘,r* th'y wiI1 hurJ >»v bodyulfnU^T °n,y ',1 8k!n bsownup full of annd and fp.n(, m dea«- thoal l meaa -then 1 will be b.own o. r to Worker *5 Ou H,wmgs of the wind; and after that I Ih&ll never be kiil'^PADY FROM CORK.banpfM nor drown’d nor yet die in my bed, for when anyone hits n:e a blow, my new body will buff upon itlike a bhdder.Tom. But what Way will you go to that new world,or where is it.Pariy. A<ri dear (hoy. the prieft knows where it i«, butI do not, but the Pope of Rome keeps the outtcr port,iiiaint Patrick the inner port, and gives us a direction ofthe way to fhaint Patrick’s palace, which (lands on thekcid of the Stygian Loch, where PH have no more to dobut chap ?t the gate.Tom. W hat is the heed of chaping at the gate, is it notalways open. . „ ,Pady. Dear (hoy, you know little about it, for thereis none can enter there but red hot Jriflimen, for when 1call.“ Allelieu dear honey, (haint Patrick, countenanceyour own dear countryman if you will” Then thegates will be opened direftly to me, for he knows•and loves an Irilhman’s voice, as he loves his own^Tan. Andwhat entertainment will you g*t when youPady, O my dear we are all kept there unto a gene-ralweview which is commonly once in the week ; and*11 the blackguard fcoundrils is pick’t out of the ranks,and one half of them is fent away to the Elfiyan heldsto carry the weeds from among the potatoes, the other,half of them to the river flicks to catch fifties for (haintPan ick’s table; and all them that are owing the pi leftsanv money is put in the black hole, and then given intothe hands of a great black bitch of a devil, which theykeep for a hangman, who whips them up and down thefmoky dungeon every morning for fix months, then holdstheir bare tack fide to a fire, until their h.ps be ad .none blifter, and after all they are fent away to the po»r•arifti of Pigtrantfum, where they’ll get nothing to cat,but cold fowens, burgue and butter milkPom. And where does your goo. people go when theyare oarted from the bad ?Pady. And where would you have them to Vj go, ac.PADY FItOM CORK. ^into foaint Patrick’s palace, and then they may go downhe baik ftnirs unto the garden of Eden no* calledaradice ; ah 1 ray dear (hoy this is the real fundamentalruths of our Romilh Religion and a dcen doftitne it is*rat your Prefbyienan, and Englilh churchmen will notwlnfve it and by lhaint Patrick neither can I, until I feenore of it come to pafs.[ r°:n\ wha: maiiner of li»« does yout priefla orderrou to live in the world to come ?Pady. Arra d: ar fhoy if I had money enough to buylatdons from our prieftg, I might commit all the lies for-hoden in our holy books, as he gives them a toleration-Reheat all the world, but thofc of our own pro-Tom. What Pady are you not to do as much juflicei a protenant as a pried.Pady. O my dear fhoy, themoft jufticewe are command.J to do to a proteftan?, is to whip and torment them til!bey confeis thetnfclvea in the Romifh Faith, and then cutpcir throats that they m^y die-believers.r ^ what bufmefs do you follow after at pre-Pf Fa»y ^rra dear I am a mountain failor and my■plication is as follows. 7Pady’s Humble PanrioM, oa Supplication.C_* OOD Cntiftian people, behold me a man, who* lias corn’d through a world of wonders, a hell full ofurdlhipg, dangers by fea, and dangers by land, aud vetl am alive, you may fee my hand crooked like a foalsuot and that is no wonder at all eonfidering my fuffer.ug 3 and forrowsj on! oh! good people I was anan in my time who had plenty of the gold, plenty ofhe Giver,' plenty of the clothes, plenty of the butter,be berr, beef and bifquet. And now, now. I have no*nn.g, being taken by the Turks, and relieved by theSpairui ds. lay fi*ty fix days at the liege of Gibraltar, andpt nothing to eat but fea wreck and raw muJids ; theniu ua for oui faftey, caft upon the darbariau coaft,the woeful wicked Algerhcs where We were to34 PADY FROM CORK,ken and tied with tugs and tedders, horfe locks and cow;cha ns; thin cut caftrafed, yards and tefticlea quite a-way} ?F you will aot believe, put in your hand and fee!how etcy Fetnak’o tm-dc fmooth by the (hear-bone, wherenot’ in* .a to be fem hut what is natural. Then madeour eCsape w tbe a-far or wi'I'i wilderaefj of Arabia;w***e we lived a*nn ft tbe wftd aflfes, upon wind, faac;and fap c's liny. A feera ardt nut to fevin tbe huH of arCeld houfe; where we were toiled above and below theclouds, b^iaf >iveu thro' thickets and grove# by fier.courfi ciltr ii;d contrary vinds; at ?a(t was cad awa»upoa Salisbury plains, where our veKfel wa« dafhed tvpieces againft a cabbage ftock. A up now my humble;petition to you, good Chriftian people is, for one hun¬dred of your beef, one hundred of your butter, •anatbe-*f your cheefr,' a cask of your bifeuit, a tun cf yourbeer, a keg of your ruro, with a pipe of your wine, tlump of your gold, a piece of your filver a few o*your halfpence or farthings, a waught of your butter¬milk, a pair of your old breeches, dockings or (hoes, e:ieven a chaw of tobaeco for charity’s fake.A CREED FOR ROMISH BELIEVERS.IBsliev* tb? Pope of Rome, to be the right heir andtrue fuecefib* of Peter the Apoftle, and that he hssa power above tbe kings of the world, being fptritualatd temporal, endowed with a comrounicst’on far beyond tbe grave, and can bring up any!* «. er or departed (bool • he pleafes, eyen as thea devil in its woman of Eudor brought up Samuel tcdead* Saul, by the fame power he can, a {liftedby the enchaatments of old Man*(Tab, aLing w Ifrsel. I believe alfo in the Romifi priefts, thatthey are vrry civil, chaRe gentlemen, keep no wives of.their own, but partakes a Kttle of other mecs wives infcc.et confefiion. I acknowledge the word ipp'ng. of,images and relics of (haints depart'd to b# ver, juft ; butif they hear and do uot help us, O they are but a parcel,of ungrateful wretches.FINIS.