i THEJFABXiKS OF .KSOTHE CELEBRATES ANCIENT PHILOSOPHER.PAISLEY:j PRINTED BY CALDWELL AND SON} 2, NEW STREET.2inn AIN U THK JliVVJKL.A Lri^k young Cook, rakiug upon a dunghill fur something to peek,happened to scrape up a jewel. He knew very well what it was, butnot knowing what t(i; do with it, he tiirtied it over and over in acontemptuous manner, shook his liead, and putting on a grimace,expressed himself to this purpose: ' Indeed you are a fine thing, butI know not any business you have here : I make no scruple of declar¬ing, that my taste lies (juile another way; and I had rather have onegrain of dear delicious bailey, than all the jewels under the sun/*morai..wise man jit dgesjiot of things by ajyjiearances.THE JACKDAW AND THE PIGEONS.A Jackdaw, observing that the Pigeons in a certain dovecot livedwell, and wanted for nothing, white-washed his feathers, and wentand lived with them. The Pigeons, not knowing the cheat, forboreto give him any disturbance. But at last he began to chatter, when thethe Pigeons, discovering what he was, obliged him to fly back to theJackdaws; but they did not know him in his discoloured feathers, aridso drove him off likewise; so that he who had endeavoured to hemore than he had a right to, was not permitted to be any thing at all.MORAL.Make not unfounded'pretensions; profess te be only what you am-THE OLD HOUND.An old liouiul who had been an excellent good one in his lime, hadat last hy reason of years, become feeble and unserviceable. How,ever, being in the field one day, he., happened to be the first that cameup with the game, hut his decayed teeth prevented him from keepinghis hold of it, and it escaped. His .master, being in a passion, wasgoing to strike him. ‘ Ah do no* strike your old servant,’ said thedog, ' It is not my heart or inclination but my strength that fails me.If what I am now displea-es you, pray dont forget what I have been.’MORAL.It is a sad thing to he treated unkindly by the man you have served.THE WOLF AND THE LAMB.A Wolf and a Lamb came to quench their thirst at a stream. TheWolf asked the Lamb what he meant by disturbing the water? enddemanded satisfaction. The Lamb said that could not be, since thewater ran down from the Wolf to him. ‘Be that as it will,’ said theWolf, ‘you spoke ill of me, behind my back, about a year ago.”The Lamb replied that at that time he was not bom. Unable to facetruth, the Wolf said in a passion, ‘Sirrah, if it was not you it wasyour father, and that’s all one.* So seising the Lamb he devoured it.MORAL.An ill disposed man seldomfails to find a cause of dispute.4\miMimiifin  __JLL-JggggSg^r=-"T<lll>,ul5£THE FOX AND THE SICK LION.It tvas reported that the Lion was sick, and the beasts were madeto believe, that they could not make their court better than by visit¬ing him. Most of them went but the Fox was not among the num¬ber ( upon which the Lion sends a Jackall to ask him why he nevere^mc to see him. “Why,” replied the Fox, “ 1 have beet severaltimes on my way to kiss his hand, but seeing the print of my fellow-subjects' feet at his cave all pointing forwards, I dared not enter it.”The Lion’s illness was only a sham, the easier to devour the beasts.MORAL.When an enemy makes fine professions, we have need of caution.A Stag saw himself i« a clear spring, and surveyed his figure fromhead to foot with great pleasure. ‘ Ah ! ’ said he, ‘ what a gloriouspair of branching horns isThere ! but I have a set of such legs as makesme ashamed to sec them.’ \\ hile he was giving himself these airs,he was alarmed with the noise of some huntsmen and hounds thatwere making towards him. Starting off, he threw dogs and men farbehind him ; but his horns were caught in a thicket, and held him tillthe hounds took him. At death he uttered these words, ‘Alas! whatI prided myself in has ruined me, & what I disliked might have saved me.Moral.— Vanity takes delight in what often proves injurious.37THE WOOD AND THE CLOWN.A country fellow came one day into the wood, and looked abouthim with some concern , upon which the trees a*ked what he wanted.He replied that he only wanted a piece of wood to make a handle tohis hatchet. Since that was all, it was voted unanimously that h«should have a piece of good tough ash. Bat he had no sooner re¬ceived and fitted it for the purpose, than he began to fell down thenoblest trees in all the forest. The Oak, it is said, spoke thus to theBeech, 4 We must take it for our pains, as we brought it on ourselves.*MORAL.He that gives a sword to an enemy may expect it turned on himself.THE WOLVES AND THE SHEEP.Tlfe Wolves and the Sheep had been a long time in a state of wartogether; at last a treaty of peace was concluded, and hostages wereto be delivered on both sides far security. The Wolves proposed thatthe Sheep should give up their dogs, and that they would deliver uptheir young ones. The proposal was immediately agreed to, but nosooner executed than the young Wolves began to howl for want oftheir dams. The old ones cried out that the treaty was broken, andeo fell on the sheep, who being without the dogs, they easily devoured.MORAL.A dishorutt mtm will make an opportunity to thoat ifhtjlnd not one,illfc TlIlhYJib Ai\L> CUUK.A band of tbrev^s once broke a house, and found not any thing inJt worth while to take but a poor Cock. The Cock said as much forhimself as a Cock crtnld say; but he spoke chiefly of the great use hewas of to raise folk soon to,go to their work. Rogue! says one of'the thieves, you had been wise fbr-yourself not to have spoke to us ofthat as one of your good qualities^ for when you crow and wake allthe folks so soon, that spoils'all our trade, as.we do most when theyare asleep, and your often bawling makes us run a risk ef being hung.MORAL.It is truly a good thing rightly to guide our tongue.THE HORSE AND THE LION.A Lion seeing a plump horse had a mind to eat a bit of him, butknew not bow to get at him. At last he gave himse f out for a phy ¬sician who could cure any malady iucident to beasts—hoping by thismeans, to get an opportunity to execute his design. The horse, as ifhe suspected nothing, asked his advice regarding a thorn he had gotin his foot. The I.ion desired he might see the foot, upon which theHorse lifted up one of his hind legs, and while the Lion pretended tobe examining his hoof, gave him a kick in the face which stunned him.MORAL.He that playeth a wily trick, often beguileth himself.7A Fox, lioving travelled a long way one sultry day in summer,at last arrived at a beautiful vineyard, and being exceedingly tiredand hungry, he resolved to rest himself for a short time, and try toget something to satisfy his appetite. On casting his eyes aroundthe place, he perceived, at a short distance, a vine heavily laden withi ipe Grapes; but nailed up to a trellis so high that he leaped till hecould leap no longer, without getting at them. ‘ Let who will takethem !’ says he, ‘ they are but green and sour, so I’ll let them atone.’XIORAL.Wre call that bad which we most desire, if we cannot attain to it.THE MOUNTAINS IN LABOUR.A report was spread over the country far and wide, that theMountoins w ere in' labour, and it was asserted that they had beenheard to give utterance to several dreadful groans. Tho»e credulouspeople who had hard of it, came flocking around the place in greatastonishment, in order to see what extraordinary birth would beproduced by the Mountains. After they had waited for a con¬siderable leagtli of time in anxious expectation, and the patienceof the multitude was nearly exhausted, put crept a little Mouse.% MORAL.Do not rely upon a man's professions whom you have never tried.7sTHE WOLF, THE FOX, AND THE APE.The Wolf indicted the Fox for felony, before the Ape, who uponthat occasion, waa appointed special judge of the cause. The Foxgave in his answer to the Wolf’s accusation, and denied the fact. Soafter a fair hearing on both sides, the Ape gave his judgment in thefollowing manner. Addressing the Wolf, he said, ‘I am of opinionthat you never lost the goods you sue for ;* and to the Fox he said,‘ There is no question but that you have stolen what is laid to yourcharge, at least.' The court was dismissed with this public censure.moral.A bad character will turn out against you, but a good one is afortune.THE OLD MAN AND DEATH.A poor feeble Old Man, having gone to gather a few sticks, wascrawling homeward with his bundle; but owing to the length of theway and the weight of his load, he sank under it, and as he sat on theground, called on Death to ease him of his troubles. Death no soonerheard him than he came and demanded what he wanted. The poorold creature, not thinking Death so near, and frightened with histerrible aspect, answered, trembling, 4 That having let his bundle fall,he had made bold to call on him for help, and that ^asall he wanted.'MORAL.The true way to take from death its terrors, is to lead a virtuous life.9THE WOLF AND THE CRANE.A Wolf, after devouring bis prey, felt a bone stiek in bis throat,which waa so painful that he went about offering a reward to anyone who should take it out. At last the Crane, tempted with thereward, undertook the business, but first made the Wolf confirm hispromise. So the Crane, venturing his long neck into the Wolf sthroat, plucked out the bone, and expected the reward. Th* Wolf,turning his eyes disdainfully towards him, said, ‘ I aigfct have bit offyour head when it was in my mouth, and yet yon are not contented.’•OBAL.He U'Ao trusts an unprincipled fellow may smart for his folly’THE OLD WOMAN AND HER MAIDS.An Old Woman having about her a parcel of idle maids, obligedthem to rise every morning at the eock crowing The Maids, look¬ing upon this as a hardship, resolved to put a stop to the growingevil and so cut off the Cock’s head, thinking that they might after¬wards lie securely in bed, and indulge themselves in their lasiness.The careful mistress, however, soon frustrated their design. Sheimmediately ordered a bell to be brought to her, which she regularlyrung at midnight, and obliged her lazy maids to get out of their beds.MORAL.It is good to be industrious, for ladness is often punished with want.r10THE TRUSTY- DOG.A Thief who iateiuled to rob a house one night when the familywere asleep, threw a piece of bread to a dog that was set to watchit* The dog, suspecting his dedgn, would not be pacified by anysuch means. ‘ Hark ye/ said he to the Thief, ‘if yot intend tostop my mouth from barking for the good of my master, you are ina great mistake, for that tudden eipresaioa of kindness from yeuwarns me to be on my guard, that you may not make any gainby my negligence. The Thief, seeing his scheme fail, sneaked off.MORAL.A sudden kindness pleases fools, byt lays trains in vain for the ivise.THE HARPER.A Fellew that used to play upon his harp, and sing to it in littleale-houses, made a shift, by the help of the narrow confined walls, toplease the dull sots who heard him; from hence he entertained anambition of showing his parts upon the public theatre, where hefancied he coaid not fail to acquire a great reputation and largo for¬tune in a very short time. He accordingly made a trial, but thespaciousness of the plane so deadened both his voice and instrument,that they were not heard, and he was universally hissed ofi the stage.MORAL.Every one ought to be content to move in his own sphere.A Fox was one day strolling abo'tft at his ease, looking farsomething with which to amuse hirnself. At last he fell in withan actor’s mask, and ‘never having be<*h any thing of the kindbefore, he made a halt with the intention of giving it a properexamination. After having* turned it over and over for sometime, and seen that it was only a sham face, he threw it aw&y withcontempt, and was heard to say, ‘ Thou senseless thing, what noblepart canst thou support? thou hast a head, but where are thy brains?moral.Beauty will tout sense, is despicable ; or, manners make the man.THE OLD MAN AND HIS SONS.Ad OM Man bad many son*, who, in disregard of their father’sarfthovity, had many quarrels. At last, called them together, hetook a short bundle of sticks and desired them, one by one, to try andbreak it. They all tried in vain, the sticks being closely bound to¬gether. The father then untied the bundle, and gave a single stick toeach of his sons, which they broke with great ease. ‘My sons, saidthe old man, ‘ if you keep conjoined in the bonds of love no ou« willcan hurt you; but if brotherly ties arebroke, you will easily be overcome.MOKAI..Discard is exceedingly odious among members of the same family.ISTHB KID AND THE WOLF.A fportive yoong Kid, intent upon pleasure, got mounted npon a high rock, from wl.ich he looked around on all aides withgreat self-conceit. While in this situation, he observed a Wolfpassing below, which he begwn to load with all maaner of re¬proaches. The Wolf, upon hearing these, looked up, and seaingfrom whom they came, answered the Kid in the following words: —* ^?a.no* va^ue yourself upon thiukiag that you mortify rne; for I takethis il! language as not coming from you, but fromyour place of safety.*mobal.It it cowardly to abuse a person because you are taje Jrvm reply*THE BOY AND HIS MOTHER.A little Boy, while at school, stole a book, and brought it to hiamother, who gave him an apple for his pains. When he grew up hecommitted greater robberies, but was at last taken, tried, and con¬demned to death. When ascending the scaffold, he desired to see hismother, which request was granted ; and while he seemed to be whis¬pering .something of importance, he bit off her ear. Then turning tothe people who were shocked at his cruelty, he said, ‘ She deserves allthis, for if she had chid me in my: infancy, I bad not come to this end.'MORAL.It is exceedingly daugcrous to overlook the Jirst faults of a child*ISyTHE PARTRIDGE AND THE COCKS.> A tertain mau having: taken a Partridge, plucked ita wing*, andturned it into a little yard, where he kept game Cocks. The Cocksmade the poor bird lead a sad life, continually pecking and driving itaway from the meat. This treatment made the Partridge concludethey were the most uncivil people he had ever met with. But ob¬serving how frequently they fought with each other, he comfortedhimself with this reflection : That it was no wonder they were socruel to kirn, since there was so much animosity among themselves.MORAL.None need expect kindness from those who feel not for their kindred*THE ASS AND THE LITTLE DOG.The Ass, observing how great a favourite the Little Dog was withhis master, and for no other reason that he could perceive, than skip¬ping about, wagging his tail, a. d leaping up into his master** lap,was resolved to imitate his conduct, in order to procure for himselfthe same favour*. Accordingly, on seeing his master coming home,the Ass ran frisking about him, and rajsing himself on his hind legs,pawed against his breast with a most loving air. This forced the manto call on one of his servants, who with a stick ended the Ass*s frolic.MORAL.A man who is ftfor oneprofession or trade t may le unfitfor another.uTHE EAGER AND THE FOX.An Eagle, looking out for food to her young, picked lip a Fox’scub that lay basking in the sun. The aid Fox, coming home at thetime, implored the Eagle, with tears, to spare her cnb. The Eaglewould not consent, but carried it oft* to her nest oil the top of a hightree, thinking herself safe from the revenge of the Fox. That subtlecreature, however, ran to a fire which some country peoplehad kindledin the open air, and seizing a firebrand ran with it to the tree, which soterrified the Eagle that she delivered up the young Ftx safe and sound.HOKAL.Sooner or later punishment overtakes the guiltr%THE TORTOISE AND THE EAGLE.The Tortoise, weary of his condition, by which he was confinedto the ground, and being ambitious to have a prospect, and look abouthim, gave out, that if any bird would take him up into the air, andshow him the world, he would reward him with the discovery of manyprecious stones, which he knew were hidden in a certain place ofthe earth. The Eagle undertook to do as he desired ; and whenlie had accomplished it, demanded the reward, which the Tortoiserefusing, he struck his talons in the toft parts of his body, anti killed him.MORAL#When a man breaks his promise he ‘must abide bp the consequence.THE CEO \V A MB THE PITCHER.A Crow, ready to die with thirst, flew with joy to a pitcher,which he beheld at some distance. When he came, he foundwater in it indeed, but so near the bottom, that with all hisstooping and etraining he was not able to reach it; he then frrifd tooverturn the pitcher, that so, at least, he might get a little of it; buthis strength was not sufficient for this. At last, seeing some pebbleslie near the place, he cast them one by one into the pitcher, and thusby degrees raised the water to the very brim, and satisfied his thirst.MORAL.True wisdom, when one ptan fails, will try another.THE BOASTING'TRAVELLER.One who had come home from being abroad, was giving an accountef his travel*; and among other plkcos, said he had been at Rhodes,where he bad so distinguished himself in leaping, that not a Rhodianeoukl come near him. He was taking some pains to convince thorn ofit by oaths and protestations; upon which one of the company risingup, told him he need not give himself so much trouble about it, sincethe simplest way was to perform the leap over again. The boaster,not liking this proposal, sat down, and had no more to say for himself.moral.Truth cannot be shamed, but a liar is sure to be disgraced in the end.]6THE LION AND THE FORESTER.The Forester one day meeting a Lion, they discoursed togetherfor a while, without differing much in opinion. At last, a di.putehappening to arise about the point of superiority between a manand a Lion. The man, in want of a better argument, showed theLion a marble monument, on which was placed the statue of aman striding over a vanquished Lion. The Lion, who eaw theweakness of the argument, said, ‘ Pray, who drew the picture? Letus be the carvers, and we will make the Lion striding over the man.’MOKAL.Some people are little to be credited when speaking of themselves.THE GEESE AND TLE CRANES.A certain Farmer had a beautiful field of Corn, of which hetook great care, and had it well fenced in. A flock of Geeseand a parcel of Cranes having got into it unobserved, were feast¬ing at their ease on the choicest of the grain. The owner of thefield, however, with his servants, happening to pass soon after,surprised the flock in the very act. The Geese made many at¬tempts to get off, hut being fat and full bodied, most of themwere sufferers: the Cranes, being thin and light, flew easily away.MOtAL.Associating wish evil companions often brings a. man into danger.17THE FIR TREE AND THE BRAMBLE.A tall Fir Tree that staod towering up in the midst of the forest,waa 10 proud of his dignity, that h« overlooked the little shrubs thatgrew beneath him. A Bramble desired to know what he meaatby such haughty conduat? ‘ Because,’says the Fir Tree, ‘I thinkmyself the first tree, for beauty aud rank, of any in the forest.’‘ This may be true,’ replied the bramble, ‘ but when the woodmanhas marked you out for public use, and the axe is at your root, Iam mistaken if you would not change condition with the worst of us.'MORAL.Self-aoncdt is ridiculous, and seldom escapes being exposed.THE WAGGONER AND HERCULES.As a Waggoner waa driving his team, his waggon wheels sunkinto a hole, and stuck fast. The poor man immediately fell uponhis knees, and prayed to Hercules that he would help him to gethis waggon out of the ho’e again. Hercules, hearing his solicit-tion, gave him the following answer: ‘ Thou fool, if thou wouldstwhip thy horses, and put forth thine own exertions by settingthy shoulders to the wheels, thou mightest help thyself; but ifthou art really unable, then call upon Hercules, he will help thee.MORAL.Laxy wishes never do a man any service.]STHE FOX AND THE GOAT.A Fox having tumbled, by chance, into a well, bad been cast¬ing about a long while, how he should get out again. 4t last,a Goat came to the place, and wanting to drink, asked Keynardwhether the water was good ? ‘ Good ! says Reynard, < aye, sosweet, that I am afraid I hare surfeited myself, I have drunk soabundantly.5 Ti e Goat, upon this, without any more ado, leaptin; and the Fox, taking the advantage of his horns, as nimbly leaptout, leaving the poor Goat at the bottom of the well to shift for him elf.Moral.A mnn nmy be brought into danger by a stranger’s advice.THE EAGLES AND THE CROWS.An Ea^le and a Crow, inhabitants of the same forest, happenedto change nests: the consequence was that they nursed each other’soffspring for their own. The young Crows, being taught by theirnew parents the Eagles, soon learned to fly upwards, and soarthrough ihc clouds with case The poor Eaglets were not so for¬tunate under their new tutors. As soon as they were able toleave the rest, and go abroad, having no other example to imitate,they never attained to any thing beyond the habits of the Crows.MORAL.The finest qualities ivill degenerate if the mind be not cultivated.H)ThE.bU'ALLOW AND OTHKK JMKUrs.Ti e Swallow, obsaiyiiig a Fiirmer sowing bis field with flax, de¬sired tbe Otlier birds to assist ber in destroying tbe seed, as it was ofit ti,e fowler made his nets Ti.e Swallow was not regarded, andthe flax appeared above the ground. When it was in the bud she1-eminded' them of thuir danger, and again when grown up into thehigh stalk, but they would not listen to her. Finding her remon-srances unheeded, she resolved to leave the society of the buds, andhas ever since that time made her abode among the dwellings of men,110KAL.If friends will not liitento your warning, then take care tf yoursej.THRT'RUUD FRQG..An Ox, grazing in a meadow, chanced to set his foot wong apan-el of young Fr gs, and trod one of tl em to death. The restinformed their mother when she came home, saying, that the beastthat did it was the hugest creature that ever they saw in their lives.; Was it so big?’, says the old Frog, swelling herself up to a greatdegree. ‘Oh ! bigger by a vast deal,’ say they. ‘And so big,says she, strainiog yet move. ‘ ladeed, mamma, if you were to burst,youwould never he so big.’ Again she strove, and burst herself indeed.MORAL.A contett i$ always ruinoice, which is 'not upon even terms.•20THE LION AND THE MOUSE.A Lion, while reposing under a shady oak, was awakened by acompany of scrambling mice running over his back. Starting up,be clapped his paw upon one of them, when the little suppliant im¬plored him to spere his life, which the Lion was pleased to grant.Not long after, the Lion chanced to be taken in the toils of thehunters, and not being able to disengage himself, he set up aloud roar.The Mouse, hearing his voice, repaired to the place, and with hislittle teeth cut through the toils, and set the royal brute at liberty.Moral.H~c never know the value of a friend unlil we want kin.THE FOWLER AND THE RING DOVE.A Fowler spied a Ring-dove in the branches of a tree, andintended to kill it. He clapped the piece to his shoulder, and tookhis aim seeordingly ; but just as he was going to pull the trigger,an adder which he had tiod upon under the grass, stung him sopainfully in the leg, that he was forced to quit his design, and throwdown his gun. The poison immediately affected his whole body,and it began to mortify, on perceiving which he owned, that destruc¬tion had justly come upon him while contriving the death of another.MORAL.J/ir ought to walk warily who hat laid snaret for his neighbour.SIAIERCURY AND THE WOODMAN.A Man felling a tree un a river aide, let hia batcliet fall into tlie water,when Mercury, appeared unto him, and learning the matter, dived tothe bottom, and brought up first a golden hatchet and then a silver one,but the man Raid neither of them were his. He then brought up theman’s own hatchet, which he took thankfully, and Mercury, pleasedwith his honesty, gave him the other two also. Another man hearing ofthis, went to cut there, and let his hatchet sink. Mercury came againand brought up a golden hatchet, which the man said was his; hut fortell.ng such a lie, Mercury neither gave him it, nar let him have his own.Mokai,.—Hontity is the lest poliey.THE MAN AND HIS GOOSE.A certain man had a Goose that laid him a golden egg every day ;but not contented with this which rather increased than abated hisavarice, he was resolved to kill the Goose and cat up her belly, so thathe might come at the ineahausible treasure which he fancied she hadWithin her. He did so, and to his great disappointment found nothing.MORAL.Avarice is often its ojcn punishment.LL72*2A Dog was once crossing a little rivulet, with a piece of flesh inhis mouth. Seeing his own shadow in the stream, Mid believing itto he another dog who was also carrying a piece of flesh, he couldhot forbear making a catch at it. He, however, was so far fromgetting any thing by his greedy design, that in snatching at theother dog’s meat, he let drop the piece he carried in his own month,which'immediately sunk to the bottom, end was irrecoverably lost.MORAL. . .He that aims at too much, often loses all.THE ASS AND THE LION HUNTim+.The Lion desired the Ass to hide in a thicket, and to btay in thelost fnriliful inamier posable. < By this says be, 1 you willouse all the beasts, while I stand at the outlets, and take them ashey are making off. ” ' Accordingly the Ass brayed, and the timor-us beasts scoured off, when the Lion, at his post, devoured them,icih-r satisfied, he told the Ass'to stop,' who asked how he liked itSo well’ said the Lion, ‘that I myself had been afraid had I not known.[ORAL.—HV who hunts for another may have a laugh for his yams23THE husbandman AND THE STORK.A Husliandixnn n^t to tike the Cranes and Geese which cameto feed upon the new-smrn corn. He took several, both Cranes andGeese, and with them a Stork, who pleaded hard for his life, allegingItpat he was neither Goose nor Crane, but a harmless Stork, who per¬formed his duty to hi* parent*, and fed them when they were old.I All this may be true/ replied the farmer, ‘ hut as I have taken youIn bad company, and in the saute crime, you must suffer with them.’peacock and the.crane.The Peacock and the Crane oi.e day by chance met together in thesame place. fhe haughty Peacock erected his tail, displayed hisgaudy plumes, aud looked with contempt upon the Crane, as somemean ordinary person. The Crane took occasion to say that Pea-yeeks were very fine birds, indeed; but that be thought it a muchnobler thing to be able to iise and soar above the clouds,, than tostrut about upon the grounil, and stand to be gaied at by children.moral. . j, ,v .,-1-1 VirV xinoul /ic/er a splendid outside, is often found a very worthless fellow.MORAL.If a man be found with knaves, his character is of little use to him.724I>4A Crow having stolen a piece of cheese, flew up into a tree with it.A Fox, obsarving it, came and began to compliment the Crow uponber beauty. 4 Your feathers,’ says he, 4 are of a mo*t delicate white,and what a fine shape and graceful turn of body is there ! If jourv»>ice is a* fine as your complexion, which I have no doubt it is, nobird need compete with you.* The Crow to set him right, began tosing, and dropping the cheese, the Fox chopped it up, and trotted off.MORA L.They are indeed fools who give vp a re ul good fora few sweet words.THE HUSBANDMAN AND HIS SONS.A Husbandman, at the point of death, desirous that his Sons wouldfollow the profession of agiiculture made use of this expedient to inducethem to it. 4 My Sons,’ said he ‘all I have to leave you is my farmand vineyard ; and I charge you to beep them, for if I have any treas¬ure, it Is burisd somewhere within a foot of the surface.* This madethe sons, at their father’s death, dig every inch of the ground for theprize, which made it yield a real treasure in the form of a plentiful crop.moral,—Industry is a true soitrce of happiness and wealth.