Befs the G*wkie:o R,JAMIE SLIGHTED.TO WHJCH ARB AT-nEn,The BROOM of COWDEN KNOWS.Tke WOMAN’S PR AfSE of TEA:' With the MAN’S ANSWER.THE THIRSTY LOVER.c^>nMV^dinbub?3^< .BESS THE G A W K.1 E.L V T H E \oiir>p; Jean to Brfs did fa7,Will yc gang to yon funny brae,Where flocks do feed and herds do ft ray,And fport a while wi* Jamie,Ah na, lafs. Ill no gang there,Nor about Jamie rnk nae care.-Nor about Jamie tak nac care.for he's ta’cn up \\V Maggie . .P'or hark, and I will tell yon hfs.Did J not fee young Jamie pafs,'Wi3 tmickle htythbefs in his face.Out o’er the muir tvi’ Pvlaggie,I waf he gae her mbny a kifs.And Magpie tqok them ne’er atniis,MT/ctn ilka (mack pleas’d her ’»i* this,Ihat Bets was but a Gaw'kle.For wl-ene’er a civil ktfs I feek.She turns her hbad and tiiraws her cheek,But fure my Maggie has malr frnfe,ohe’ii gt.e -t ft ore without offence jNpw gif me.pee unto the menfe,And for an hour flit’ll fr;rce.!y fpeakU fk’d cot ca’ her a ‘Gawkic ? •And ye fhall be my Tiawtle.%f .' K oIO Jan:je ye hae 4110117 u’en,' #f Bit i will uc^ex* ftani$ op for sae,\ Or twa, till we do meet again,bae nc'ei thiuk me a Gawkie*» - '1 Ah i na iafs, that canaa be...file thooiV'its-as theft are far frae me,I Of ony.tby, fweet face that fee,E’er to uiiak thee a Gawkie.But U’hi hr, me mair of this ■♦ fll fpeakI Ecr yonder Jamie does ws meet;, I a it v ad of Meg. lie Irifs’u Lie fwret,i true he likes the Gawkie.IO dear I3ef;, l hardly,knew.■ When 1 came, your gown’s fae new,: I think you ve got it wet wi’ dew ;Quoth liefs, that’s like a Gawkie.I It’s wet wi’ dew rtnd ’twill get raia,1 And IM get; gowns when this is gane,cSae. ye may gang the git yy came,And tell it to yout Dawtie^•5 The guilt appear’d iu Jamie’s check,Ms cry'u, Q cruel maul, but fweet,i kf l ho 11 Id gaag an it her gate,I ne'er could meet my DiWiic»! The Effes faR frae him they flew,1 And Icii poor j uriie fair to rue.That ever Maggie’s face he knew,Gr ret .pvd fk-E a Gawkie.h> XZ ■ ; ‘ 1 ' ■ ' '•■ ( 4 >As they went o*er tli«*ir,oor they fang,*1 he hills and dales with echoes rang,The hills and dales with echoes rang.Gang o'er the maif to Maggie.-The BROOM of COWDEN KNOWS.C\ The broolii the bonny bonny broom,/ the broom of the Cowden Knows,1 willi l were with my dear fwain,milking my davidy's ewes.How blyihe ilk morn was l to fee.my Twain come o'er the hi!!,'He leapt the burn and’ilew to me,I met him with good willlie tun’d his pipe and reed fae fvveet,the bk fs flood jift’ning by,Tv’n the dull c.v-dt flood amaz’d,charm’d with his melody.1 neither wanted ewe nor lamb,while his .flock near me lay.He gather’d in my (beep at e’en,and cheer’d me all the day.He did oblige me every hour,could l but thankful be iHe ftole my heart, who could refufe,trhate’er he alk’d of me.iWliilc thus we fpeat our time by turus,betwixt our flocks and play,I envy’d not the faired damethough ne'er fo nch and gny.IjHard iate that 1 Ihould hani'JiM be,gang heavily and "lonrn,ipecaule I love the km.bkt fwatn,that ever yet was born.Adieu! ye Cowden Knows, adieu!tarewel all pleafl^res there;Ye gods, reftore to me my Twain, -is all f crave or care.The WOMAN'S PRAISE of TEA-O O M E men do rail againfl tea,and fay that it.makes butter dear,ifBut let them fay all that they will,it*$ cheaper than brandy or beer.iThey fay they make butter with curd,when the wives da the belt they can/ho Is it can blame a good woman,for doing the beft for a man.By the help of a man we were made,and over us they were to rule ;The man that denies his wife tea,has got no more wk than a foobr There's a penny for a quartern cf tea.,Wprenyfor fagar’s do- pri.t( 6. )roan will deny his Wife Tea,-as two pence will breaktaft.ber twice.When the beff of the tea it is over,ihere’s a difii for the children1 or maidjIt is che sp'r than milk; or faiall beer, >when n > fuch nne it i; made. >My hufoand he goes to arntle-bouie,and foot) drinks two,quarts of ftrong beWith a pipe to his. mouth like .a lord,. ftys tits wife has no buftnefs there.He Uilks of the news cf the nation,caronfes with merry gCK)d cheer:35cLues hi>wife.te^ which it cheaper,than either good brandy or bear.'Tea and ic'uff is always my comfort,. and’s been ail. ths clays of my lire.The man that dimes'his wife tea, v .i wifli him a lad drunken w.ifcThere is feme low-’i- ’d hnibands fays, 'He muft buy butter and bread,But the women wiil dytve their tea,when butfer-railk htl-ibands arg dead.G>CS::TvH E A N S’ 'A? E R.TVj O W Bet l have heaid thy petitionsyour praife in ex nding of tea,And if thit yea give -no more realons,. thonh: ne’er gdt a rcriid fi oox me,.B§ ' v ' - • ■ »N ■ ( 7 ) ‘ :y ;Irf*s fai<% tbit tei*makes baiter cieyir,i but rcrvnnty/ that is not trite *• Fcr as that you fiate fbu e^ipences, .thereVtione <v i- eaten by you.i'lfbu tount Inn Mr fagar and reafthrn where l the butter ;uvl bread,I judge you take fomerhmg before it,or there is no teeth in your li-v d !|Or doll thou like fdh live on water?the cplllieft living 1 call;) On g n. rtun, or good hoi brandy,1 judge thou’it.a tipler of abSlhev! fays that thy husband loves beer,tobafcco, ■ nd nappy brown ale :Whcf; thou lives c;i nodihig but tea,j and t liC» r of a penny each meal.10 happy’s the man that oath got thee,. if thou earns but fourpeiWe a day.Then fixpeure a week I’il allow thee,to clothe thee in comely array.As thou lives on nor - ht bhtxf\ve:t water,to be fare a tweet wife thou muft be.But if ever I’wed for the better,it’s ne’er be a lover of tea.As at it they learn the poor faflikm,'cups reading, to ctalh and to lie •And reil,how jick our of paflion,he neyer giv^v comfort to me.• ^ v, - • ', ( s )But turns lus cold hum:to tr.y belly,and there he lies fnorini* all eight.He fhrcly. loves fome other madam,or dfe 1 vvotild hare more delight,I am hifs’d on’y t^ice in the week,and that’s a poor phifui thing:And oh! to be married again,for I lore all things in the fpring-- V **THE THtRSTY LOVER.DR i NK to me only with -thine.- and Ell pledge thee withOr letive a kifs but in the cup,and I’ll cot look -for wine.The third: which in my foul doth rife*“ does afk a drink divine ;Bur might 1 of Jove’s Nechr dp,I wou’d cot change for thire.I fent thee late a rofy wreath,not fo much honouring thee ;And giving it a hope ’,hat there,it could nor wither’d be., ; ' .But thou therein did only breathe,and fent it back to me ;Since when, it looks and fmells, I fwear,not of itfelf but thee.Printed by J. & M. Robertfon, SaUirurktt, *8o2