THEHISTORYWHITTINGTONakdHIS CAT.EDINBURGH:... 4Printed for the Booksellers in Town and fountry.HISTORYOFWHITTINGTON.Dick Whittington was a very little bwhen his father and mother died ;little indeed, that he never knew thennor the place where he was born. Hstrolled about the country as raggd jas a colt, till he met with a waggontiwho was going to London, and wbgave him leave to walk all the way bftthe side of his waggon, without payinany thing for his passage ; which ol1liged little Whittington very much, ahe wanted to see London sadly ; for hhad heard that the streets were pavewith gold, and he was willing to getbushel of it. But how great was hdisappointment, poor boy! when he saTthe streets covered wuth dirt instead cgold, and found himself in a strang;place, without a friend, without food] !and without monev.HeI flfw.m1 \3Though the waggoner was so char-litable as to let him wralk up by the sideof his waggon for nothing, he took carenot to know him when he tame to town;;and, in a little time, this poor boy wastso cold and so hungry, that he wishedilhimself in a good kitchen, and by aIwarm iire-side in the country.m! In th is distress he asked charity ofji several persons, and one of them bidi him go wrork for an idle rogue—Thati I will, says Whittington, with all myI heart; I will work for you, if you willji let me.The man, who thought this savour¬ed of wit and impertinence,( though thepoor lad intended only to shew his-readiness to work) gave him a blowwith a stick, which broke his head, sothat the blood ran down. In this sit¬uation, and fainting for want of food,he laid himself down at the door of oneMr Fitzwarren, a merchant. Here thecook saw him, and being an ill-natured4hussey, ordered him to go about hisbusiness, or she would scald him. Atthis time Mr Fitzwarren came fromthe Exchange, and began also to scoldthe poor boy, bidding him go and work.Whittington answered, that heshouldbe glad to work, if any body would em¬ploy him, and that he should be able ifhe could get any victuals to eat; for!-he had eat nothing for three days, andhe was a poor country boy, and knew 'nobody, and nobody would employ him.He then endeavoured to get up, butwas so very weak, that he fell downagain ; which excited so much com¬passion in the merchant, that he order¬ed the servants to take him in, andgive him some meat and drink, and lethim help the cook to do any dirty workshe might set him about. People aretoo apt to reproach those who beg withbeing idle, but give themselves no con¬cern of putting them in a way of get¬ting business to do, or consideringis; 113whether they are able to do it ? h•iijhis is not charity.I remember a circumstance of thisort, which Sir William Thomson toldny father with tears in his'eyes, and its so affecting, that I shall never for-3tet it.(M1i Story of Sir William Thomson.When Sir William was in theJantation abroad, one of his friendsId him lie had an indentured servant,-whom he had just bought, that was hisjiountryman, and a lusty fellow ; butie is so idle, says he, that I cannot getim to work. Aye, says Sir William,t me see him. Accordingly, theyalked out together, and found the manittingon adieap of stones. Upon this,nr William, after inquiring about hiscountry, asked why he did not go outrto work ?—I am not able, answered the/nan.—Not able! savs Sir William,I am sure you look very well; give tSum a few stripes. Upon this the plant¬er struck him several times, but the ppoor man kept his seat.They then left him, to look over theplantation, exclaiming against his ob¬stinacy all the way they went; buttibw surprized were they, on their re¬turn, to find the poor man fallen off theplace where he had been sitting, anddead ! The cruelty, says Sir William,of my ordering the poor rcran to be beat¬en while jn the agonies of death, liesalways next my heart. It is what Ishall never forget, and will for ever pre¬vent my judging rashly of people whoappear in distress. How do we knowwhat our own children may come to l!The Lord have mercy on the poor, and jdefend them from the proud, the uncon-siderate, and the avaracious.r tBut, to return to Whittington, who |MdUjlrould have lived happy in this worthyr jamily, had he not been bumped about|y the cross cook, who must be always. msting or basting ; and when the spitliras still, employed her hands upon poori /Vhittington ; till Miss Alice, his mas-: ler’s daughter, was informed of it, and:ihen she took compassion on the poor<>oy, and made the servants treat him.dndly.;|j Besides the crossness of the cook,rVhittington had another dificulty tol^et over before he could be happy. HeJiad, by order of his master, a flock-bedwlaced for him in a garret, where therefyere such a number of rats and mice,• hat they often ran over the poor boy’s; lose, and. disturbed him in his sleep.lAfter sometime, however,'a gentlemanijkho came to his master’s house gave(Whittington a penny for brushing hisjilioes. This he put into his pocket,iiieing determined to lay it out to theB0est advantage; and the next day, seeingm woman in the street with a cat under-8her arm, he ran up to her to know theprice of it. The woman, as the cat wasa good mouser, asked a great deal ofmoney for it; but on Whittington’s stelling her he had but a penny in the fwrorld, and that he wanted a cat sadty, 'she let him have it.This cat Whittington concealed inthe garret, for fear she should be beatabout by his mortal enemy the cook ;and here she soon killed or frighted a-way the rats and the mice, so that thepoor boy could now sleep as sound asa top.Ipi:I r«.Soon after this, the merchant, whohad a ship ready to sail, called for allhis servants, as his custom was, in or¬der that each of them might venturesomething to try their luck, and what¬ever they sent was to pay neither freightnor custom ; for he thought, justly, thatGod Almighty would bless him themore for his readiness to let the poorpartake of hi-s fortune :•-c*IJ VPie,fI9s* He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord,who will refurn it seventy fold.”All the servants appeared but poorWhittington, who having neither moneynor goods, could not think of sendingany thing to try his luck ; but his goodi friend, Miss Alice, thinking his povertyiikept him away, ordered him to be cal¬led. She then offered to lay downj: sofhething for him, but the merchantI told his daughter that would not do,for it must be something of his own.Untm which poor Whittington said hethad nothing hut a cat, which he hadjibought for a penny that was given him.I “Fetch thy cat, boy,” says the mer-||chant, “ and send her.” Whittingtonnbrought poor puss, and delivered herCjto the captain with tears in his eyes,rfor he said, he should n©w be disturbediJ ipby the rats and mice as much as ever.LlAll the company laughed at the adven-ijture, and Miss Alice, pitying the poor' boy, gave him something to buy anoth-' r cat10While puss was beating the billows jat sea, poor Whittington was severely jbeaten at home by his tyrannical mis- |tress the cook, who used him so cru- Ielly, and made such game of him for ilsending his cat to sea, that at last the jipoor boy determined to run away from j,.his plac« ; and having packed up a few ifthings Tie had, he set out very early inthe morning, on Allhallow’s day. He .travelled as far as Holloway, and tli^reij.sat down upon a stone to consider whatcourse he should take ; but while he was,thus ruminating, Bow bells, of which .there were only six, beg£n to ring, and !he thought their sounds addressed him jin this manner :—“ Turn again, Whittington,“ Lord Mayor of London.”“ Lord Mayor of London,” said he ito himself, “ what would one not en~ jdure to be Lord Mayor of London, and.ride in such a fine coach. Well, I’lfgonback again, and bear all the pummelling;ITi!and ill usage of Cicely, rather than missthe opportunity of being Lord Mayor !So home he went, and happily got intothe house and about his buisness beforekWe must now follow Miss Puss tofe coast of Africa, to that coast whereDido expired for loss of ./Eneas.—Howperilous are voyages at sea, how uncer-rtain the winds and the waves, and howimany accidents attend a naval life !The ship which had the cat on board,jjlwas long beaten &t sea, and at last, byllcontrary winds, driven on a part of theoicoast of Barbary, which was inhabited' by Moors, unknown to the English.flThe.se people received our countrymenvwith civility, and therefore the captain,fit in order to trade with them, shewed3; then! patterns of the goods he had onh; board, and sent some of them to the kingt| of the country, who was so well pleased,that he sent for the captain and the factor to his palace, which was about a/ .12     --mile irom the sea. Here they wereplaced, according to the custom of thecountry, on rich carpets, flowered withgold and silver ; and the king and queenbeing seated at the upper end of throom, dinner was brought in, which consisted of many dishes ; but no soonerwere the dishes put down, but an amaz¬ing number of rats and mice came fromall quarters, and devoured all the meatin an instant The factor, in surpriseturned round to the nobles, and asked,;if these vermin were not offensive ? “ O'yes, ” said they, “ very offensive; “ andthe king would give half his treasureto be freed of them ; for they not onlyjdestroy his dinner, as you may see,but they assault him in his chamber,and even in his bed, so that he is obli¬ged to be watched while he is sleepingfor fear of them.The factor jumped for joy ; he re¬membered poor Whittington and hisWhittingtoncat; and.told the king he had a creatureon board the ship that would despatch/13all these vermin immediately. Theking’s heart heaved so high at the joyI that these news brought him, that hisn turban dropped olf his head ! ‘ Bringthis creature to me, says he, and if shewill perform what you say, I will loadI your ship with, gold and jewels in ex¬change for her.’ The factor, who knewhis busines, took this opportunity toi set forth the merits of Mrs Puss. HeTold his majesty, -that it would be incon¬venient to part with her, as when shewas gone, the rats and mice might de¬stroy the goods in the ship—but, to o-blige his majesty, he would fetch her.Run, run,” said the queen, I am im-sepatient to see the dear creature.” A-iway flew the factor, while another din-imer was providing, and returned withrl the cat just as the rats and mice were||devouring. that also. He immediatelyaset down Miss Puss, who killed a greatinumber of them.The king rejoiced greatly to see hisTold enemies destroyed by so small acreature, and the queen was highlypleased, and desired the cat might bebrought that she might look at her.Upon which the factor called “ Pussey,pu'ssey, pussey,” and she came to him.He then presented her to the queen,who started back, and was afraid totouch a creature who had made suchhavoc among the rats and mice; how¬ever, when the factor stroked the cat,and called Pussey, pussey, pussey, thequeen also touched her, and cried put-tey, puttey, for she had not learnediEnglish.He then pu.t her down on thequeen’s lap, where she, purring, playedwith her majesty’s hand, and thensung herself asleep.'SriThe king having seen the exploitsof Mrs Puss, and being informed thatshe was with young, and would stockthe whole country, bargained with thecaptain and factor for the whole ship’Sjcargo, and then gave them ten times;15is much for the cat as all the rest a-nounted to. With which, takingeave of their majesties and other greatpersonages at court, they sailed with a/air wind for England, whither wef jnust now attend them.The morn had scarcely dawned,; when Mr Fitzwarren, stole from theiped of his beloved wife, to count overEhe cash, and settle the business forhe day. He had just entered theompting house, and seated himself ati!Lhe desk, when somebody came, tapdap, tap, at the door. “ Who’s there ?”jsays Mr Fitzwarren—“A friend;” an¬swered the other. “What friend canocome at this unseasonable time?”—“A/real friend is never unseasonable,” an¬swered the other. “ I come to bringtithe good ship Unicorn.” The mer¬ic h ant bustled up in such a hurry, thatithe forgot his gout, instantly openedthe door, and who should be seen wait¬ing but the captain and factor, with acabinet of jewels and a bill of lading ;16at which the merchant lifted up hiseyes, and thanked Heaven for sendinghim such a prosperous voyage. Then [they told him the adventures of th<cat, shewed him the cabinet of jewelwhich they had brought for little Whit¬tington. Upon which he cried outwith great earnestness, but not in themost poetical manner,“ Go call him, and tell him of his fame,And call him Mr Whittington by name.”It is not our business to animadvertupon these lines. We are not critics,but historians. It is sufficient for us,that they are the words, of Mr. Fitz-warren ; and though it is beside ourpurpose, and perhaps not in our powerto prove him a good poet, wre shall soonconvince the reader that he was a goodman, which was a much better char¬acterfor when some, who were pres¬ent, told him that this treasure wastoo much for such a poor boy as Whit¬tington, he said, “ God forbid that IQ17'should deprive him of a pennyit is alli ais own, and he shall have it to a far-tilling. He then ordered Mr Whit¬tington in, who was at this time clean¬ing the kitchen, and would have ex¬cused himself from going into the par-ton r, saying the room was rubbed, andjihis shoes were dirty and full of hobibails. The merchant, however, made! dm come in, and ordered a chair to ber set for him. Upon which, thinking theyt ntented to make sport of him, whichmad been too often the case in theh-dtchen, he besought his master not to► ■mock a poor simple fellow, wdio inten¬ded them no harm; but to let him gombout his business. The merchant[taking him by the hand, said, “Indeed|Mr Whittington, I am in earnest, andI sent for you to congratulate yc.n oncyour great success. Your cat has pro-upuced you more money than I amworth in the world, and may you longmjoy it and be happy.At length, being shewn the treasure,13and convinced by them that ad of itbelonged to him, he fell upon his knees,and thanked the Almighty for hisprovidential care of such a poor mis¬erable creature. He then laid all thetreasure at his master’s feet, who re¬fused to take any part of it; but toldhim, he heartily rejoiced in his prosper¬ity, and hoped the wealth he had acquir¬ed would be a comfort to him, and makehim happy. He then applied to hismistress, and to his good friend MissAlice, who refused to take any partof the money, but told him, they reallyrejoiced at his good success, and wish¬ed him all imaginable felicity. He thengratified the captain, factor, and ship’screw, for the care they had taken ofhis cargo; distributed presents to all theservants in the house, not forgetting]even his old enemy the cook, thoughshe little deserved it.After this, Mr Fitzwarren advisedMr Whittington to send for the necessary people, and dress himself like a319gentleman, and made him the offer ofibis house to live in, till he could pro- __ivide himself with a better. Now itcame to pass, that when Mr Whitting¬ton’s face was washed, his hair curled,and dressed in a rich suit of clothes,that he turned out a genteel youngfellow : and as wealth contributes much .to give a man confidence, he in a lit¬tle time dropped that sheepish beha¬viour, which was principally occasionedby a depression of spirits, and soongrew a sprightly and good companion,insomuch that Miss Alice, who hadformerly seen him with an eye of com¬passion, now viewed him with othereyes, which perhaps was in somemeasure occasioned by his readinessto oblige her, and by continually mak- .ing her presents of such things as hethought would he agreeable.I When her father perceived theyhad this good liking for each other, heproposed a match between them, towhich both parties cheerfully consent-^0ed, and the Lord Mayor, Court of Al-|dermen, Sheriffs, the Company of Sta-|tioners, and a number of eminent mer¬chants, attended the ceremony, andwere elegantly treated at an entertain¬ment made for that purpose.History tells us, that they lived hap¬py and had several children ; and hewas Sheriff of London in the year 1340,and then Lord Mayor ; tiiat in the lastyear of his Mayoracy he entertained•< «/ VKing Henry the V. and his Queen, af¬ter his conquest of France. Upon which,occasion, the king, in consideration ofWhittington’s merit, said “ Never hadPrince such a subject,” which beingtold to Whittington at the table, hereplied, “ Never had subject such aKing.” He constantly fed great num¬bers of the poor; he built a college,with a yearly allowance for poor scho¬lars, and near it erected an hoSpi-tal. He built Newgate for criminals, jand gave liberally to St Bartholomew’shospital, and to other public charities./215WONDERFULPREDICTIONS.Henrietta Maria, queenof great Bri-ain, at the death of her father, Henryhe Fourth, was a cradle infant; and,3arberino, at that time nuncio in'Vance (and afterwards created Popey the name of Urban VIII.), comingo congratulate her birth, and findinglat the queen mother would have beenetter pleased if she had born a male,le told her, “ Madam, I hope to seelis, though your youngest daughter,!j great queen before I die. ” The queenpswered, “ And I hope to see you'ope. ” Both which prophetic com-iments proved true, and within alort time one of another.I have spent some inquiry, saithr Henry Wotton, whether the DukeBuckingham had any ominousresagement before his end ; wherein,TZthough ancient and modern storihave been infected with much vanityyet oftentimes things fall out of thakind which may bear a sober construetion, whereof I will glean two or threin the Duke’s case. Being to take hileave of his Grace of Canterbury, theBishop of London, after courtesiescourse passed betwixt them, “ MLord,” says the Duke, “ I know yocLordship hath very worthily good aocess unto the King our sovereign : leime pray you to put his Majesty imind to be good unto my poor wiiand children ” At which words, or £his countenance in the delivery, orboth, my Lord Bishop, being somewhtroubled, took the freedom to ask bin *“ If he had never any secret abod*ment in his mind ?” “ No,” repliethe Duke ; “but I think some adveitore may kill me as well as anotheman.” The very day before he wzslain, feelingsome indisposition of bod;the King was pleased to give him tlhonour of a visit; and found him ihis bed : where, and after much serk23i ons and private conference, the Duke,fat his Majesty’s departing, embracedi him in a very unusual and passionatei manner, and in like sort his friend theI Earl of Holland, as if his soul had di-i vined he should see them no more.! Which infusions towards fatal endsuhave been observed by some authors of;no light authority. On the very dayiof his death, the Countess ofDenbeigh'received a letter from him ; whereuntoSail the while she was writing her an-iswer, she bedewed her paper with heriiitears; and after a bitter passion,Jiwhereof she could yield no reason,jcbut that her dearest brother was to beIgone, she fell down in a swoon. Herhsaid letter ended thus : “ I will pray|for your happy return, which I look at|with a great cloud over my head, tooKiheavy for my poor heart to bear with-iiout torment; but I hope the great*'God of heaven will bless you.” Thei day following, the bishop of Ely, her> devoted friend, who was thought thef fittest preparer of her mind to receivesuch a doleful account, came to visither; but hearing she was at her restjhe attended till she should awake offherself; which she did, with the aff-rightment of a dream: her brother I'seeming to pass through a field withher in her coach, where, hearing a sud- .den shout of the people, and asking the jreason, it was answered to have beenfor joy that the Duke of Buckinghamwas sick; which natural impressionshe scarce had related to her gentle-;woman, before the Bishop was enter-1ed into her bed-chamber, for a chosenmessenger of the Duke’s death.finis