NAPOLEON’S[ATo. 10,BOOK OF FATE ;TO WHICH ARE ADDEDA FEW PASSAGESFROM THEiDULL MAN’S COMPANION.'EDINBURGH :: PRINTED & PUBLISHED BY J. BRYDONE.SOUTH HANOVER STREET.f v OF SCOTLAND JJ B UR►••on.!.a iw/.n/.ir.LFH /IED 7 T»LBri8KF.i) <1 T BKADOKE’EDIMBHEG H :Dfirr WfJA& COHLYMIOM*ibow ini/V LE/A LY88?E i;8lO tfJIIC.il CUE VDDKif ooif oil i/fiiK iAYbOVEOMMMETHOD GF CONSULTING THE ORfiCULUMOn the following page.Let the person who is to consult the Oraclethink on any number, from 1 to 16, and thenfix on one of the questions in the Table.TO OBTAIN THE ANSWER,! Refer to the Oracueum, at the top of which youwill find a row of figures ; guide your eye downthe column at the top of which you find thenumber thought on, till you come to the letteron a line with the question you are trying ;then refer to the page of the book which con¬tains that letter, and on a line with the figurewhich is the same as your own you will findthe answer required.The following are unlucky days, on whichnone of the questions should be tried, or anyenterprise undertaken:Jan. 1,2,4,6,10,20,22.February 6, 17, 23.Mafch 24, 26.April 10,' 27, 28.May 7, 8. 'June 27.July 17, 21.August 20, 22.September 5, 30.October 6.November 3, 29.December 6, 10, 15.%* It is not proper to try a question twicein one day.QUESTIONS.cffSiS <D2£ii<B,®aWS2Shall I obtain my wish ?Shall I have success in my undertakings ?Shall I gain or lose in my cause ?Shall I have to li,ve in foreign parts ?Will the Stranger return from abroad ?Shall I recover my property stolen ?Will my friend be true in his dealings ?Shall I have to travel ?Does the person love and regard me ?Will the marriage be prosperous ?What sort of a wife or husband shall I have?Will she have a son or a daughter?Will the Patient recover from his illness ?Will the Prisoner be released?Shall I be lucky or unlucky this day ?What does my dream signify ?1 2A | B | C | D | E6 7 8 9 10 11F | G | H | I | K| L12 13 U 15 16B fC \ D-\ E | F | G 1 H | I | K | L | MC | D | E | F | G | H (I | K j L 1 M | ND | E | FE | FF | GGHG | H | I | K | L | M | NH | I | K | L | M | N | OO| I [K |L |M | 1ST | OPI P IQG | H | I | K | L | J\1 | N | O | P I Q | A111 I | K | L | M | N j O | P | Q | A | B| K| L | M | N | O | P | Q | A | B | CK|L|M|N|0|P|Q|A|B|C|DL | M | N | O | P | Q | A | B | C | D | EM-j N | O ( P | Q | A | B j C I D | E | FN 1 O I P I Q I AO | P | QJ A | BP | Q | A 1 B | CQ | A | B | C | D;B | C | DC | D | ED T E | FE | F 1 GE I F I GF | G | HG| H| IH | I | KM I y I O I P I QN | O | P |Q 1 yO I P I Q I A | BP | Q | A | B | CQ I A | B | C | DA | B | C | D | EB I CJ D | E | FC | D | E | F | GD | E | !F | G | H' G | H | IG | HH | II | KK | LL | MH | |I | KIJKJLKJ E | ML | M | NM | N | ON | O | PA1 What you wish for, you will shortly obtain.2 Signifies trouble and sorrow.3 Be very cautious what you do this day, lesttrouble befal you.4 The prisoner dies, and is regretted by hisfriends.5 Life will be spared this time to prepare fordeath.|    * 6 A very handsome daughter, but a painfulone.7 You will have a virtuous and religiouswoman or man for your wife or husband.8 If you marry this person, you will have ene¬mies where you little expect.9 You had better decline this love, for it isneither constant nor true.|   ——-— I 10 Decline your travels, for they will not be toyour advantage.if 11 There is a true and sincere friendship be¬tween you BOTH.112 You will not recover the stolen property.13 The stranger will, with joy, soon return.14 You will not remove from where you are atpresent.15 The Lord will support you in a good cause.1 (i You are not lucky—pray to God that hemay help you.1 The luck that is ordained for you will becoveted by others.2 Whatever your desires are, for the presentdecline them.3 Signifies a favour or kindness from someperson.4 There are enemies, who would defraud, andrender you unhappy.5 With great difficulty he will obtain pardonor release again.6 The patient should be prepared to leavethis world.7 She will have a sow, who will be learned and !wise.8 A rich partner is ordained for you.') By this marriage, you will have great luckand prosperity.10 This love comes from an upright and sincereheart.] 1 God wiLLSiirely travel with you, and blessyou. .—      .|12 Beware of friends who are false and deceitful.13 You will recover your property—unexpect¬edly.14 Love prevents his return home at present.15 Your stay is not here ; be therefore prepared'for a change.1G You will have no gain ; therefore, be wisejand careful.a.1 With the blessing of God, you wn.r. havegreat gain. . :.^a2 Very unlucky indeed—pray to God for hisassistance.3 If your desires are not extravagant, theywill be granted.4 Signifies peace and plenty between friends.5 J3e well prepared this day, or you may meetwith trouble.6 The prisoner will find it difficult to obtainhis pardon or release.7 The patient will yet enjoy health and pros¬perity.  8 She will have a daughter, and will requireattention. -9 The person has not a great fortune, but isin middling circumstances.10 Decline this marriage, or else you may besorry.11 Decline a courtship which may be your de¬struction. na12 Your travels are in vain: you had betterstay at home.13 You may depend on a true and sincerefriendship.14 You must not expect to regain that whichyou have lost.15 Sickness prevents the traveller from seeing  you.  1G It will be your fate to stay where you noware.1 You will obtain a great fortune in anothercountry.      2 By venturing freely, you will certainly gaindoubly.S God will change your misfortune into suc¬cess and happiness.4 Alter your intentions, or else you may meetpoverty and distress.5 Signifies that you have many impedimentsin the accomplishment of your pursuits.6 Whatever may possess your inclinationsthis day, abandon them.7 The prisoner will get free again this time.8 The patient’s illness will be lingering anddoubtful.9 She will have a dutiful and handsome son.10 The person will be low in circumstances,but honest-hearted.11 A marriage which will add to your welfareand prosperity.12 You love a person who does not speak wellof you.13 Your travels will be prosperous, if guidedby prudence.14 He means not what he says, for his heartis false.15 With some trouble and expense, you mayregain your property.16 You must not expect to see the strangeragainE.1 The stranger will not return so soon as youexpect.2 Remain among your friends, and you willdo well.3 You will hereafter gain what you seek.4 You have no luck—pray to God, and strivehonestly.5 You will obtain your wishes by means of afriend.6 Signifies that you have enemies, who will en¬deavour to ruin and make you unhappy.7 Beware—an enemy is endeavouring to bringyou to strife and misfortune.8 The prisoner’s sorrow and anxiety are great,and his release uncertain.9 The patient will soon recover—there is nodanger.10 She will have a daughter, who will behonoured and respected,11 Your partner will be fond of liquor, andwill debase himself thereby.12 This marriage will bring you to poverty ; be,therefore, discreet.13 Their love is false to you, and true to others.14 Decline your travels for the present, forthey will be dangerous.15 This person is serious and true, and deservesto be respected.16 You will not recover the property you havelost.p.1 By persevering, you will recover your pro¬perty again.2 It is out of the stranger’s power to return.3 You will gain, and be successful in foreignparts.4 A great fortune is ordained for you ; waitpatiently.5 There is great hindrance to your success atpresent.'6 Your wishes are in vain at present.7 Signifies there are sorrow and danger beforeyou.8 This day is unlucky; therefore, alter yourintention.9 The prisoner will bo restored to liberty andfreedom.10 The patient’s recovery is doubtful.11 She will have a very fine boy.12 A worthy person, and a fine fortune.13 Your intentions would destroy your restand peace.14 Tins love is true and constant ; forsake itnot.15 Proceed on your travels or journey, and youwill not have cause to repent it.16 If you trust this friend, you may have causefor sorrow1 This friend exceeds all others in every re¬spect.2 You must bear your loss with fortitude.. ‘ : ■  ■ i . i’. ^ ^ .-3 The stranger will return unexpectedly.4 Remain at home among your friends, andyou will escape misfortunes.5 You will meet no gain in your pursuits.6 Heaven will bestow its blessings on you.7. No.8 Signifies that you will shortly be out of thepower of your enemies.9 Ill-luck awaits you,—it will be difficult foryou to escape it. ^10 The prisoner will be released by death only.11 By the blessing of God, the patient will re¬cover.12 A daughter, but of a very sickly constitu¬tion.13 You will get an honest, young, and hand¬some partner.     :  —i-14 Decline this marriage, else it may be toyour sorrow.15 Avoid this love.16 Prepare for a short journey ; you will berecalled by an unexpected event.1 Commence your travels, and they will go onas you could wish.2 Your pfetended friend hates you secretly.3 Your hopes to recover your property areVAIN.4 A certain affair prevents the stranger’s re¬turn immediately.5 Your fortune you will find in abundanceABROAD.6 Decline the pursuit, and you will do well.7 Your expectations are vain—you will notsucceed.8 You will obtain what you wish for.9 Signifies that on this day your fortune willchange for the better.10 Cheer up your spirits, your luck is at hand.11 After long imprisonment, he will be released.12 The patient will be relieved from sickness.13 She will have a healthy son.14 You will be married to your equal in ashort time.15 If you wish to be happy, do not marry thisperson.16 This love is from the heart, and will con¬tinue until death.I.1 The love is great, but will cause great jea¬lousy.2 It will be in vain for you to travel.3 Your friend will be as sincere as you couldwish him to be.4 You will recover the stolen property througha cunning person.5 The traveller will soon return with joy.6 You will not be prosperous or fortunate inforeign parts.7 Place your trust in God, who is the disposerof happiness.8 Your fortune will shortly be changed intoMISFORTUNE.9 You will succeed as you desire.1 10 Signifies that the misfortune which threatenswill be prevented.11 Beware of your enemies, who seek to do youharm.12 After a short time, your anxiety for theprisoner will cease.13 God wiLLgive the patient health and strengthI again.14 She will have a very fine daughter.15 You will marry a person with whom youwill have little comfort.16 The marriage will not answer your expecta¬tions.K.1 After much misfortune, you will be com¬fortable and happy.4 Do not kely on the friendship of this person.5 The property is lost for ever ; but the thiefwill be punished.6 The traveller will be absent some consider¬able time.7 You will meet luck and happiness in aforeign country.8 You will not have any successfor the present,9 You will succeed in your undertakings.10 Change your intentions, and you will dowell.11 Signifies that there are rogues at hand.12 Be reconciled ; your circumstances willshortly mend.14 The patient will depart this life.15 She will have, a son.16 It will be difficult for you to get a partner.2 A sincere love from an upright heart.3 You will be prosperous in your journey.13 The prisoner will be released.L.1 You will get a very handsome person foryour partner.2 Various misfortunes will attend this mar¬riage.3 This love is whimsical and changeable.4 You will be unlucky in your travels.5 This person’s love is just and true. Youmay rely on it.6 You will lose, but the thief will suffer most.7 The stranger will soon return with plenty.■8 If you remain at home, you will have suc¬cess.u.  ■ - - r ;• ■:9 Your gain will be trivial.LO You will meet sorrow and trouble.11 You will succeed according to your wishes.> [ ■ rn } j —— -7— ? ——~—~~—n77—’—?12 Signifies that you will get money.13 In spite of enemies, you will do well.4 The prisoner will pass many days in con¬finement.15 The patient will recover.6 She will have a daughter.ML1 She will have a son, who will gain wealthand honour.2 You will get a partner with great under¬takings and much money.3 The marriage will be prosperous.4 She, or he, wishes to be yours this moment.5 Your journey will prove to your advantage.6 Place no great trust in that person.7 You will find your property at a certaintime.8 The traveller’s return is rendered doubtfulby his conduct.9 You will succeed as you desire in foreignparts.10 Expect no gain ; it will be in vain.11 You will have more luck than you expect.12 Whateveryour desires are,you will speedilyobtain them.13 Signifies you will be asked to a wedding.14 You will have no occasion to complain ofill-luck.15 Some one will pity and release the prisoner.16 The patient’s recovery is unlikely.1 The patient will recover, but his days areshort.2 She will have a daughter.3 You will marry into a very respectablefamily.4 Bythis marriage, you will gain nothing.5 Await the time, and you will find the lovegreat.6 Venture not from home,7 This person is a sincere friend.8 You will never recover the theft.j 9 The stranger will return, but not quickly..1 10 When abroad, keep from evil women, orthey will do you harm.ill You will soon gain what you little expect.'12 You will have great success.13 Rejoice ever at that which is ordained foryou.14 Signifies that sorrow will depart and joywill return.15 Your luck is in blossom ; it will soon be athand.10 Death may end the imprisonment.1 The prisoner will bo released with joy.2 The patient’s recovery is doubtful.3 She will have a son, who will live to a great4 You will get a virtuous partner.5 Delay not this marriage—you will meetmuch happiness.6 None loves you better in this world.7 You may proceed with confidence. i8 Not a friend, but a secret enemy.9 You will soon recover what is stolen.10 The stranger will not return again.11 A foreign woman will greatly enhance youifortune.12 You will bo cheated out of your gain.13 Your misfortunes will vanish, and you willbe happy.14 Your hope is in vain—fortune shuns you apresent.fv,r • J'iv' »oiJ ^ doul •>!,<■ '15 That you will soon hear agreeable news.16 There, are misfortunes lurking about yop.:t. 1 This day brings you an increase of happi-| ness.2 The prisoner will quit the power of hisenemies.3 The patient will recover and live long.4 She will have two daughters.5 A rich young person will be your partner.6 Hasten your marriage,—it will bring youmuch happiness.7 The person loves you sincerely.8 You will not prosper from home.9 This friend is more valuable than gold.10 You will never receive your goods.11 He is dangerously ill, and cannot yet return.12 Depend upon your own industry, and remainat home. *13 Be joyful, for future prosperity is ordainedfor you.14 Depend not too much on your good luck.15 What you wish will be granted to you.1 6 That you should be very careful this day,lest any accident befal you.Q-1 Signifies much joy and happiness betweenfriends.2 This day is not very lucky, but rather thereverse.3 He will yet come to honour, although henow suffers.4 Recovery is doubtful; therefore, be preparedfor the worst.5 She will have a son, who will prove forward.6 A rich partner, but a bad temper.7 By wedding this person, you insure yourhappiness.8 The person has great love for you, butwishes to conceal it.9 You may proceed on your journey withoutfear.10 Trust him not ; he is inconstant and deceit¬ful.11 In a very singular manner you will recoveryour property.12 The stranger will return very soon.13 You will dwell abroad in comfort and happi¬ness.14 If you deal fairly, you will surely prosper.15 You "will yet live in splendour and plenty.16* Make yourself contented with your presentfortune.A FEW PASSAGESFROMTHE DULL MAN’S COMPANION.Next to Nothing.—‘ What’s a o’clock, Pat ?’ in¬quired a traveller. ‘ Next to nothing,’ answer-S ed the Milesian, with great confidence. ‘ WhatIdo you mean ?’ asked the traveller. ‘ Not quiteone,’ replied Pat, ‘ and follows in coorse thatwhat isn’t one is next to nothing.’A Manikin's Retort.—A very little and a veryitall gentleman being one day engaged in aniurgument, the tall one lost his temper, andthreatened to put his opponent into his pocket.If In that case you would have more sense inyour pocket than ever you had in your head,’was the little gentleman’s sarcastic reply.Ingenious Substitution.—A compositor on theDerby Mercury acquired the name of Big Mur-vhy during his life, from a blunder he commit-red, which escaped correction. Being incor-::igibly addicted, where he did not well know themeaning of a hard word, to substitute onevhich he did know, that came nearest it inuppearance—in composing an article whichiiamed a projected meeting of the great poten¬tates of the continent, he announced ‘ an as-nemblage of all the Great Potatoes of Europe !’j Not a Bad One.—‘ I am afraid,’ said a ladyi o her husband, ‘that I am going to have a! tiff neck.’—‘ Not at all improbable, my dear,’|eplied her spouse ; ‘ I have seen strong symp-10ms of it ever since we were married.’: The Peril of Praise.—‘What an admirable22THE DULL MANS COMPANION.discourse you have given us !’ said a delightedhearer once to the Rev. Rowland Hill, as he;was coming out of the vestry? after sermon :‘ allow me to say, Sir .’ ‘O, say nothing onthat subject,’ replied the preacher, gravely : ‘ Ineed no man to tell me that I preached a goodsermon; the devil told me so already beforeI left the pulpit.’ Here was wit, and wisdom,and sanctity, all in one. There is nothing moredangerous for frail mortality than praise.Rewarding, Honesty.-^-A. coloured servantsweeping out a bachelor’s room found a six- ,pence on the carpet, which he carried to thoiowner. 1 You may keep it for your honesty, jsaid he. A short time after, he missed his|gold pencil-case, and inquired of his servant ifhe had seen it, ‘Yes, Sir,’was the reply. ‘And|what did you do with it T ‘ Kept it for myhonesty, Sir !’ The old bachelor disappearedA ’'Cute Lad.— A boy being rather fond ofhis bed, his father entered his room one morn-!ing, and told him the spn had: been up thesythree hours. ‘ And so should j,’ said the hoy? ;‘ if I had as far to go as he has.’ ,, yfjA Smart Reply.—At a banquet,,when solviing enigmas was one of the diversions, AlexaMder said to his courtiers, ‘ What is that whichdid not come last year, has not come this yea«and will not come next year!’ A distressoi Ajofficer starting up, said, ‘ It must certainly hour-arrears of pay.’ The-king was so divertedthat he commanded him to bo paid up, aptalso increased his.salary.7Yte Pleasures of ion.—Martha, midear,’ said a loving husband to his spouse, vvh 'was several years his juniqr. ‘ what do you sato moving to the far West?’ * Oh, I am diTHE DULL MAN’S COMPANION. 23lighted with the idea. You recollect when MrMorgan moved out there he was as poor as weare, and Its died in three years, leaving his ividowworth a hundred thousand dollars?Filing a Bill.—A solicitor, who was remark¬able for the length and sharpness of his nose,once told a lady that if she did not imme¬diately settle an affair in dispute, he would filea bill against her. ‘ Indeed, Sit,’ said the lady,1 there is no necessity for you to file your bill,—it is sharp enough already.’Connubial Compliment.—‘No, Catherine,’ saidPatrick to his wife, ‘ you never catch a lie com¬ing out of my mouth.’ ‘ Y6u may well say that,’’replied Kate ; ‘ they fly out so fast tliat nobodycaw catch ’em.’A Bull.—A Munster man was telling hiscompanions one day of the plenty of wild fowlin his country. ‘ Arrah,’ says he, ‘ but par¬tridges are so numerous there, that a blind manight kill a whole covey at a shot, if he couldut see them rise.’A Crust for a Coward.—On an evening be-bre a battle, an officer came to the Field Mar-hall de Toiras, and asked permission to visitlis father, who, he said, was at the point ofeath ; and, therefore, he wished to pay himis last duties. ‘ Go,’ replied the General, wholearly perceived the motive of his request.Honour tliy father and thy mother, that ihy"ays may be long in the land /’Repartee.—‘A counsel at the Old Bailey, inross-examkiing a witness, asked him, among'ther questions, ‘ Where he was on a particu-ir day ?’ to which he replied, ‘ he was in cdrii-any with two friends.’ ‘ Friends !’ exclaimedlie counsel, ‘ two thieves I suppose you mean ’24 THE DUU. man’s companion.‘ They may be so,’ replied the witness, ‘ forthey were both lawyers /’The Witty Doctor.—‘ Come, Doctor,’ said anoted scoffer to the Evangelical minister of theTolbooth Church, ‘ I can give you a treat—abottle of claret forty years old.1 The Doctorwas in raptures, and eagerly accepted the invi¬tation, when, to his dismay, the accepted quartproved only to be a pint bottle. ‘ Waes me,1said he, taking it up in his hand, ‘ but it’s unco jlwee of its age !’• A Genuine Irish Bull.—The porter of a Dub¬lin grocer was brought up by his master on acharge of stealing chocolate^ which he could notdeny. Upon being asked to whom he sold it,the pride of Patrick was greatly wounded.‘ To whom did I sell it!’ says Pat; ‘ why does |he think I took it to sellf ‘Then, Sir,1 saidthe magistrate, ‘what did you do with it?’ I‘ Do with it!’ rejoined the culprit, extremelyoffended with his worship for persisting in hisinsulting suspicions; ‘ since you must know,1said he, ‘ we made tea of it!’A Visible Sign.—At a Sunday school exami¬nation a few days ago, a little girl being askedby her catechiser, ‘What is the outward visiblesign or form in baptism?1 innocently replied, j‘ Please, Sir,.the baby.1 . jSt Giles' Justice.—‘ What are you beating,that boy for?1 said a gentleman to a young1!denizen of the rookery in St Giles1: ‘you .‘iroi! :too big for him. What hase he done?1 ‘ Yy, *he dropped his knife : I picked it up; and nowhe wants me to give it him back again; and J’cos I von’t, he’s sarcy.1James Brydone, Printer, 17 South Hanover Street, Edinburgh.