THETRAVELSANDADVENTURES OFWn. lilTHGOW,INEL HOl’E, ASIA, and AFRICA,DURINGNINETEEN YEARS.mhtiYALr\o gaHUTwairaA.mff/.i.A JlH'l A ixu; ,/ I^A r‘l'IOH Kii>Ki a jao HAH Y ’/ia3TjlHIH, 7/008AJO^jiajjagxooa am aoa ua i /ihw.v? iTRAVELS AND ADVENTURES. Ill fTJ ' j ’ ; ; | / j f c-./T J . I } (fb^Hj miHbTl^oiJIdlw fU, WILLIA M L IT H G O VV. bim ^THE sufferings and pcrigrinations of this Scotsman, who far out walked the late famous Corsyate, “ seem,” says Mr. Granger, “ to raise himlalmost to the rank of a martyr, and a hero.” Hisbook being very scarce, and little known, a shortlabridgment may be acceptable; in which we shall,tin general, omit his description and insert onlyhis adventures, After making two voyages to theOrkney and Shetland islands, and walking over!all Germany, Bohemia, Switzerland, and thei.Low Countries, our author visited Paris, wherehe resided ten months.From thence, on March 7th 1609, he set outon foot for Italy and in forty days passing through| Savoy, and over the Alps arrived at Rome.I There probably being too free and unguarded1 in speech, and not observing the advice given toI Milton by Sir Henry Wotton, I pensieiustrelli, eu it viso scioitc ; after a stay oftwenty-eight days he could not have escaped the“ blood sucking inquisitors.” most of whom wereiiilhis own countrymen, had it not been for the a*sistance of Robert Meggat, a Scotsman alsothen residing in Burgo di Roma with the ol(Earl of Tyrone, w'ho concealed him three dayrat the top of his lord’s palace, and on the fourtliat midnight when all the streets and gates wenwatched for him, conveyed him away, and leap'ed the wall with him. He then visited Naples-Virgil’s tomb, &c. Having walked four timefrom one end of Italy to the other, viz, fronVallese, the first town in Piedmont, to CafBlancho in Calabria, he affirmed it to be 900 Italian miles in length, and in breadth 240, fronthe Adriatic coast to the Riviera of Genoa, b;the sea side, Campagna di Roma and the duch'of Spoleto, he returned to Loretto. Here he mewith a countryman named Mr. Js. Arthur, whos-company was most acceptable to him. One day,as they wrere viewing the image of the Virgin, ;lusty young woman, busy at her beads, ovenpowered by the heat of the throng fainted awayat which the woman near her exclaimed, that“ orir blessed lady had appeared to her.” imjmediately she was carry’d out, and laid on thijsteps that led from the chapel to the church doosome hundreds more saluting her with “ Sainsaint, O ever blessed saint!” This being Fridaythe woman having travelled all night, to sas$l6t fish, had privately eaten a hit oftier own cold meat, and drank half a buckale ofred w'ine in a tavern. At la$t said our author.Brother Arthur, I will go and open that moth-w’s bosom.” He did so, and raising up her head,t flood or vingakba, of sour wine, sprung downhe alabaster stairs, mixed with lumps of indi¬gested meat; at which the people being amazedrom the saint swore she was a devil; and, had notmr travellers carried her in haste from the church,o the tavern, they would doubtless have stonedHer to death. Kmbarking in a frigate at Ancona.Arthur and Lithgow in three days arrived at yen-fcc, where as soon as they landed at St. Mark’sPlace, perceived a great crowd of people, and in;hc midst of them a great smoke, inquiring thecause, they were told, that a grey-friar of the(Franciscan order was burning alive at St. Mark’siPillar, for debauching fifteennoblenuns,and(ill within a year. Pressing forward, they came;o the Pillar, just as half his body and his rightland fell into the fire. This frit-.r was forty-six('ears old, and had been confesspr of that nunnerySf Saneta Lucia five years. Most of these nuns|jL4 k. tt-Ljt <If{t 'J4JV (_/" • nmi ^ 1 f < rr (»* 111 fLJ ’inllovjAere Senitors’ daughters. Fifteen (all pre¬gnant) were sent home to their father's palaces ,(the lady prioress and the rest weie banished forpver; the nunnery uas razed to the ground; theevenues were given to the poor, and the churctjconverted into an hospital. Here our travellenseparated. Arthur returned homeward, antLithgow proceeded to Greece and Asia; but firs,visiting Padua, Verona, and Ferrara. At Paduthe staid three months learning Italian of one O'his countrymen, Dr. John Wedderburn, an eminent mathematician, who afterwards settled irMoravuij At his return to Venice, he embarkecin a carmoesalo Zara Nova, in Dalmatia; butmeeting with a violent storm, they were driverfor shelter into the port of Parenzo, in IstriaThence sailing by the isles Briani, the ruins of Po-la, the isles Sangego, Osero, on the 8th day thejiarrived at Zira where our traveller got a passageinto a Greek carmoesalo for Lesina, the largestisland in Adriatica. He afterwards sailed succes¬sively ,to Ragusa, and the island of Corfu, Neatthe island of St. Maure the vessel was attackedby a Turkish galley of Biserta, from which aftera long and doubtful fight they escaped by favourof a storm, and^took shelter in Copholonia (for¬merly Ithaca, ) having seven of the crew killed,and eleven wounded; among the latter our tra¬veller, in his right arm. Over this island hetravelled, and on the second day hired a littleboat to carry him to Zant, (anciently Zaeynthus, ]twentyfive miles distant, where a Greek surgeonij7cured his wound. He there embarked in a frigatefor Peterasso, (or Patras, ) the capital of theMorea, where quitting the sea, he joined a car¬avan of Greeks bound for Athens, passingthrough Laconia, and the hilly and now barrehcountry of Arcadia, encamping one night in theuninhabited villages of Argos and Mycenae; andfinding in short no remains of ancient Greece,but the name. In seven days he arrived atAthens from whence he took shipping for theisle of Serigo, where during his st&y at Capsalo,I the captain of that fortress having killed a priest,whom he had found one night in a brothel, thegovernor of the island deposed and banished him.In the same boat Lithgow also embarked, andsailed to Candia, or Crete. Thiough this wholeisland he travelled twice, which no traveller in' Christendom had done before'. On setting outtfor Canea, being informed of the danger of rob-ibers, he put his money in exchange, and had{scarce got twelve miles, when he was beset by{three Greeks and an Italian, who beat him cruelly,:robbed him of all his clothes, and striped himinaked, adding many threats; till at length, the)Italian perceiving he was a stranger, and could1not speak the Cretan tongUe, asked him in hisi/own language, where was his money ? He repli¬ed, he had only 80 byzantinos, which scarce8amounted to eightpence English Not creditingthese words, the robbers, searched all his clothesand budget, but found nothing except his linenand recommendatory letters from several princes,particularly the Doge of Venice, whose subjectsthey were : this moved the Italian to compasssion,and he earnestly intreated the others to save ourtraveller’s,life, at length they restored to him idspilgrim’s clothes and letters, but kept bis bJpQgown and byzanttnos, and as a passport gave,him a stamped piece of clay, to shew to any oftheir companions, if he met them, the band cou-fsisting of tw.enty. Travelling that day thirty-seven miles, he reached at night tlxe miserabfovillage of I’ickehorno, where he could find ncil,hefme^t, dunk, lodging, nor any refreshment, Th.eC.'andiots, ,a barbarous people thronging roundhim, seeming amaxed at his wanting both com¬pany and their language, a compassionate femalehaving privately made him signs that his deathwas concerted, he stole away from them in thenight, and lay till morning in a cave by the sea-,side hungry and thirsty, and bis heart faintingin him.if ' •sun-rising, he quitted his lurking place, andabout noon reached Canea, the second city ofCrete, anciently Cydon. While he was thery,,gallies arrived fron Venice, in one of which9pas a young French gentleman, a protestant bornn Languedoc, who had been condemned by theenate to the gallics for life, for being accessaryo the death of a young noble Venetian, in a quar-el concerning a courtezan. Having leave fromlis captain to come on shore with a keeper wear-ng an iron bolt on his leg, our author commen-:ed an acquaintance with him, and greatly com-)as«ionating his misfortune, (being at Venicevhen the accident happened,) contrived his es¬cape at the hazard of his own life, by means otin old Greek woman, his laundress, who lent himm old gown and a black veil for a disguse, Ac¬cordingly, Lithgow invited the keeper to a tav-?rn, where, with deep draughts of L,eatic, he in¬toxicated this Argus, and left him asleep. Thendisburdening his friend of his irons, he clothedhim in a female habit, and sent him oyt of thetown, conducted by the Greek woman, and when(past the guard and gate, our traveller followedBiim with his clothes, and, interchanging them,directed him over the mountains to a Greek con¬vent, w here he might be entertained till the Mal¬tese gallies or men-of-war should touch there, onit heir Way to the Levant.I In his way back our author was met by twosoldiers of his nation, Smith and Hurgrave, w howere coming to inform him that the officers of10the gallies, and several soldiers were searchingthe city and the fields for him. Advising withthem how to reach the Julian monastery, St. Sal¬vador, where they lodged, they conducted himin at the eastern the least frequented gate ofthe city, where three other Englishmen of thegarrison were that day on guard, and with them Ihappened to be eight French soldiers, theirfriends, who also agreed to escort him. Nearhis lodgings, four officers and five galley soldiersran to seize him, when the English and Frenchdrawing their swords, desperately wounded twoof the officers. Meantime, a reinforcement com¬ing from the gallies, Smith, leaving the rest en¬gaged, ran with Lithgow to the monastery. Atlength the officers, of the garrison relieved theirown soldiers, and drove back the others to thegallies. Soon after, the general of the galliescame to the monastery, and examining our tra¬veller concerning the fugitive, he made such adefence that nothing could be proved againsthim. Nevertheless, he chose to remain in safe¬guard in the cloister till the gallies were gone.Being disappointed of a passage to the Archipe¬lago, Lithgow resolved to visit the city of Can-dia; and in his way passed by the famous havenand through the pleasant valley of Suda, by thecity of Reshimos, the labyrinth of Daedalus, and11mount Ida ; near which, he disproved the asser¬tion of there being no venomous creature in Crete,i by killing two serpents and a viper. Being dis¬appointed at Candia, he was forced to return to1 Canea the same way he went, where, soon after,i,an English renegado, named YVilson arrived from| Tunis, in his way to Phodes; and, after some gon-.versation with his countrymen, the English. soldiers, hearing that Lithgovy was a Scotsman,ihe spoke as .follows. “ My elder brother, the,i master of a ship, was killed at Brunt island inI: Scotlaml, by one Keere; and though he was be¬headed, I have long since sworn to be revengedon the first Scotsman I should see or meet, andI therefore I am determined to stab this man tonight as he goes home to his lodgingdesiringtheir assistance, which two of them promised,but the other three refused, meantime Smithfound him at supper in a cutler’s house, where,i acquainting him with this conspiracy, he was es¬corted to his lodging by Smith and three Italiancl soldiers, passing by the ruffian and his confeder-. ates, who, seeing his treachery discovered, madei his escape.Smith having thus most eminently served himtwice, first in freeing him from the danger of gal¬ley slavery, and now in saving his life, Lithgow1 resolved to return the obligation, by discharging12his debt to the captain, which was ■only t'orty-eightshillings Sterling and thereby procuring him hisliberty, after having served three captains fifteenyears. This our traveller happilv accomplish¬ed, and embarked him for Venice.Lithgow staid in Canea near a month, beforeJ.e could procure a passage for the Archipelago,: nd at last left the monastery he says, with re¬gret, as the four friars his hosts, gave him fre¬quent and large draughts of malmsey, thoughoften against his will. Every night, too, theyforced him to dance with them ; but their musicwas drunkenness, and these beastly swine wereevery night so drenched, that they had not powerto go to their beds, but where they fell, they laytill next morning. In short, during the twentydays ot his being there, he never saw any of themtruly sober. 11 aoxdt ladfo oilt tigIn this island, he travelled on foot about 400miles, and, after a stay of fifty-eight days, he em¬barked in a fishing-boat tor Milo, one of theCyclades, distant 100 miles. 1From Milo our traveller proceeded to Zephano,another small island, from whence Luculhvs firsttransported marble to Rome ; and to Angusa,where he was wind bound sixteen days, and allthat time was never in bed, but lodged on thestones in a little chapel the Greeks intreafing13Kim not to Piiiter their sanctuary, because lie wa^: not of their religion ; however, as the nights werelong and cold, he was forced every night tb'.creenii into the midst of it to keep himself warm. Fromthence he went to Mecano, anciently Delos, the■ chief of the fifty-four Cyclades, where the customstill continues of never suffering men to die, or1 children to be born in it; but when the men aresick and the woman big-bellied they are sent toRhena, two miles distant, Zea, Tino, and Pal-mosa, once Patmos, where St. John wrote hisRevelation, were the next islands which lie visi¬ted ; and thence sailing to Nicaria, his vessel, insight of it was chaced by two Turkish galliotsinto a bay, where, leaving the loaded boat, heand eight more fled to the rocks, from whencethey annoyed the Turks w-ith huge stones. 1 hemaster and two other old men w ere taken andmade slaves, and the boat and goods seized.. Inhis way from Nicariu to Sio, they were drivenby ji storm into a creek betw een two rocks, w herethe shore being shelfy and the anchors coming-home a great lake was made, and seven of thecrew drowned: the other eleven just before theboat sunk, by hasty rowing reached a cavewithin the mountain ; Lithgow disetnbarked the! last, as the rest had sworn if he pressed to escape;before they were all in safety they would thfoii14him into the sea. Nothing was saved but hiscoffer made of reeds in which he carried his pa¬pers and linen, and held it always in his arms.In this cave, which was 30 paces long, they abodethree days without meat and drink, till, on thefourth, the tempest ceasing some fishing boats re¬lieved them, Seventeen other boats were castaway on this coast and not a man saved. Throughthis island Lithgow travelled with a. thankfulheart to Sio the capital, where, passing by an oldcastle, he was told that Homer’s sepulchre wasstill extant there; and being desirous to see it,he descended by sixteen steps into a dark cell,and through that to another square room, wherehe saw an ancient tomb on which were engravensome ancient Greek letters, which he could notunderstand. By MUylene, or Lesboa he nextsailed in a carmoesalo to Negropoint (of old Eu¬boea,) and in their way they were chased by tw;oTurkish galliots into a long creek, where theTurks were deterred from attacking them, by bon¬fires made by the Greeks for six succeedingnights, our traveller, as a stranger, being exposedevery night to stand centinel in the midst of frostand snowy on the top of a high promontory,which however invited his mule to bewail his toil¬some life, his solitary wandering, and his long dis¬tance from his native country.15On the 7th day, two Venetian gentlemen, whohad been ten years banished for murder, cameI down to see them with two servants, all wellarmed ; and hearing our traveller’s complaints a-gainst the Greeks for detaining bis budget, andforcing him to endanger his life for their good,they soundly drubbed the master, and forced himto restore Lithgow’s things ; carrying him within| five miles of the town where they then resided,I kindly entertaining him ten days, and, at his de-;j parture, made him a present of forty gold se-; quins; the first gift he ever received in all his;l travels.From thence he proceeded to Salonica in Ma-, cedonia, and then sailed along the Thessalianshore, saw the “ Two topped hill” Parnassus,and a little more east, a ruinous village and cas¬tle, once the city of Thebes. In three daysfrom Ralonica he arrived at Tenedos, when meet-; ing with two French merchants of Marseillesbound to Constantinople he and they resolvingto view Troy, hired a janizary for their conduc¬tor and guard, and a Greek for their interpre-(j ter. Landing there, they saw many relicts ofq old walls, and many ruined tombs some of whichwere pointed out to them as the the tombs ofl Hector, Ajax, Achilles, Troilus, &c. and also3 those in Hecuba, Cressida, and other Trojan1C>datncs; T\n-f woiv shown also the ruins of Kin^Piiurn’s palace, and where old Anchises dwelt.On a piece of a high wall, at the N. K. cornerot Troy, out author found three pieces of rustedmoney ; two of which he afterwards gave to theyounger brothers of the Duke of Florence, thenstudying at Pratolina ; the third and fairest, witha large picture on one side, he bestowed, at Aixin province, on his countryman Mr. Strachanthen mathematician to the Duke of Guise, whopresented it to his Lord.On discharging their covenant with the jan¬izary, who was not contented with the formercondition, the Frenchmen objected to pay thesame that Lithgow did, the Turk belabouredthem both with a cudgel till the blood sprangfrom their heads, and compelled them to doublehis wages. Such is the extortion of those ras¬cals, who regard Christians no more than dogs ;and it is always best for a travaller to contentthem at first, or he will he forced with blows, topay twice as much. At Sutos and Abydos, sofamed for the loves of Hero and Leander, hutnow called the castles of Gallipoli (at present(lie Dardeuelles,)'they arrived in a small frigate,w here, two days after, eiglity Christians, slaves,having murdered their captian, and the otheiTurks, and run away with the galley, passed thestraits at mid-night, with little hurt, thoughthe camion thunderedii.ceisSautly tor two hours;land at last arrived in the;road to Zante. Au-|other galley attempting the same the year fol¬lowing : the poor slaves, in passing, were sowounded mul galled witlv the great shot, and thegalley ready to sink that they were forced to runnon shore: where, being apprehended, they werei miserably put to death.Leaving the Frenchman with a Greek bar-| oer. Lithgow embarked in a Turkish frigate' for Constantinople, “ a little world, which he| describes as yielding at a distance such an out-E ward splendour to the amazed beholder, of good¬ly churclres, stately towers, gallant steeples &c.i that the world cannot equal it.” At his landing| however, he “ had a hard welcome tor on leav-i ing the boat the master saying Adio Christiano,i four French rengenadoes standing on the quayand hearing these words fell desperately uponhim, blaspheming the name of Jesus, and throwinghim down, beat him eruely,. so that had not hisfriendly Turks leaped out of their boat and re¬vived him, they would doubtless have murderedhim. Thy other infidels standing by, said tohim. “ Behold what a Saviour thou ba-st, whenthose that wery Christians, now turned Mahom¬etans, cannot abide nor regard the name of thy18God !” Entering into a Greek lodging, he was Imuch eased of his blows, by their anointing himwith divers oils, and kindly received and refresh¬ed gratis, because he had suffered so much forChrist’s sake. Next day he went to pay hisduty to Sir Thomas Glover, the English am¬bassador, who courteously entertained him threemonths in his house“ A more complete gentleman,” he says. “ henever met with, nor one in whom true worth didmore illustrate virtue.” His mother was a Polishlady who coming from Dantzick to London waSdelivered of him at sea. Afterwards he wasbrought up at Constantinople, and spoke andwrote the Selavonian tongue perfectly; andthence returning to London he was the first am-bassador'sent there by king James I. after hiscoming to the crown of England. The duke ofMoldavia^ being deprived of his principalities byAohmet was received and chargeably maintainedby Sir Thomas, in his house, for two years, buthis embassy being expired and Sir Paul Pindarbeing expected in his place this prince stole awayfrom him, turned Turk, and was circumcised re¬ceiving only, for his dukedom, a palace, and ayearely pension of 121,000 gold sequins for life.He owed the ambassador about 151,000 half of19which in half an year, he recovered the other halfhe was forced to fof^oejThe winter being expired, Lithgow sailed inan English ship to Smyrna, and thence toRhodes, where he saw the remains of the Col-lossus, and to Limisso, in Cyprus, from whencehe went with an interpreter to visit Nioosia, thecapital; and, on his return, meeting four Turks,(they would have his mule to ride upon, whichhis interpreter refused, they pulled him off itsback, beat him pitifully,1 and left him almost dead.I His companion fled and escaped; and had notsome Greeks accidently come by and relievedhim, he must have perished. He sailed fromthence to Tripoli, in Syria, and while he waitedthere for a caravan to Aleppo, being mindful tovisit Babylon, he agreed with three Venetianmerchants to go a days journey to see the cedarsof Libanus. Ascending the mountain, theirguide mistaking their way amidst an intricate pathof the rocks, two of their asses fell over a bank,ij and broke their necks ; and had they not met, by1| chance, with a Christian Amaronite, they must(I have been lost among the rocks, heaps ot snow,fij and violent torrents. At the place where theIt cedars grow, they saw but twenty-four in all;p and nine miles eastward, there are seventeena more. He was there shown the tomb of Joshua,ttUi of'bn&'fetotKty'Seventeen feet Icing, aim waskindly entertained by the Bishop, or PatriarchfliJEdea, and the Amaronites, or Mazaritanfe, ofthe other villages.-I Keturning to Tripoli, he set out with a cara-van of Turks for Aleppo, but before his arrivalthere, the caravan for Babylon, to his great griefwas departed : but, being told that it staid atBeershaek on Euphrates, on account of someArabs who waylaid them in the desarts, he hireda jannizary and three soldiers to overtake them.But though they had stayed they were gone threedays before he got there. Beershack is bysome supposed to be Padenarium. To Aleppo,therefore, he was forced to return. While hewas there, the Bashaw, having the year beforerebelled against the grand Signor, ho sent hima ehiaux and janizaries in an embass, proffering,that if lie would acknowledge Ids rebellion, andfor that treason send Aehmet bis bead, bis eldestson should inherit his possessions and Bashaw-ship; otherwise the Sultan would come in personand utterly eraze him and all his from the faceof the earth. The messengers met the Bashawon horseback, accompanied by bis two sons and500 horsemen. Hearing this he dismounted eon-suiting with bis sons and friends, be and they con¬cluded, that it was best for him being an old man21J. to die tp save Ins race from destruction and pre-j serve his son in his authority and inheritance.This done, he went to prayer; and taking- leavei of them all and sitting down on his knees, thei chiaux struck off his head, and put it Into a boxi to carry to Constantinople. The corpse wasI honourably buried at Aleppo, of which Lithgowj was an eye-witness.And immediately the chiaux by proclama-l tion, fully invested the son in his father’s lands,■pflfeSRfctosh ooidj bogbol orr// htwBeing disappointed going with the caravan toBabylon in the autumn, as has been already re-I lated, our traveller returned to Aleppo where hestaid till the spring, w hen he joined a caravan ofArmenians and Turks, well guarded, bound to■ Jerusalem, hiring a mule from a Turk to carryhis victuals.Their number was about 600 Armenians,Christian pilgrims, men and women, 600 Turkstrafficking for their own business, 100 soldiersthree chiauses, and six janizaries. The confusionof this multitude he describes as most grevious,on account of the extreme heat and scarcity ofw'ater, and narrow stony passages, in which theyoften fell one over another in great heaps, andthe Christians were often v'ell beaten by theconducting 'l urks. The ow ner of his mule was99for three days very favorable to him, in order tohave a share (he found) of his tobacco, of whichhe then freely gave him a pound, which he al¬ways carried with him, to procure the good-willof the Turks. At his walking, which he oftendid at dismounting, to streach his legs that werestiffned by a stumbling beast they laughed andmocked him, it being their custom, at alightingto sit down immediately, and fold their feet un¬der them. On the ninth day they arrived atDamascus, and were lodged three days there ina great khan, at the grand signior’s ?xpence; aprivilege allowed to all strangers who come witha caravan.On Palm Sunday, in the morning, 1612, thecaravan entering Jerusalem, and at the gate, theywere all searched for arms and ammunition.The Amenians were obliged to deliver up theirwepons, and Lithgow’s name was written in theclerks book, that his tribute for the gates* andfor seeing the sepulchre, might before his depart¬ure, be, paid together. The gates were of ironinwardly, and above each gate was planted brazencannon.Taking his leave of his compainons, wholodged with their own Patriarch, our author wasmet and received in the streets by the guardian,and twelve friars, each carrying a lighted waxtil ^ ' I'j 11. jii 1111 ’ii w.(ij (iriijf n’ ^'candle, and one for him also, and singing TeDeum all the way to their Monastery, they great-1 ly rejoiced that a Christian had come from sucha far country as Scotland to visit Jerusalem.But, when they knew afterwards, that he was no! Popish Catholic, they sorely repented of theirlabour. He found there ten branks, just comefrom Venice, six of then Germans, and also goodProtestants, who. were wonderfully pleased to: hear him flatly tell the guardian, that he was noi Roman Catholic, nor never thought to be so.; After staying some days at Jerusalem, and see¬ing every thing worthy of his notice, he madethe best of his way to Joppa, where, after seeingthe remains of the house in whichs Peter fell intoi a trance, and saw heaven opened, he embarkeda small vessel for Alexandria. He arrivedinthere in safety, and soon sailed for his nativeland.j - ANECDOTE OF HENRY IV. OF FRANCE.Henry had seduced the daughter of an officerat Rochelle, which had disgraced a worthy fam¬ily, and given great offence to the people of thatcity. Just befere a battle, when prayers weregoing to be read in front of the line, a protestantminister, his chaplain, took the liberty to remon-strate to him, that he could not expect that thDivine Being would favour his arnisj if he diflnot previously ask pardon for this;'dffehcd, andrejiair the scandal which ho had given by thkmost public satisfaction. The King heard thisremonstrance with the greatest humility, fell up¬on his knee, implored forgiy*h\es^ of tibd, anddesired all to witness his contrition, and his sol¬emn assurance that, if Providence spared his life.'he would repair as much as possible, the injuryhe had done. All who were present at this un¬common scene, were melted into tears; and thenwas scarce one who would not have devoted hitlife for a prince, who thus evinced such instanreadiness to do justice to his inferiors.TiB oH .fdrhfTKzoIA -nd Issaov Jb;m. B rim *iil io1 hedbix nooa hrm ni or d|si■iO .VI YHH3Hi3‘jffio nn to •ntrfgrmh sd) hoouboa hud yn/aHn hoamgfeih hnd doidw ,oll9doofl tsq odt oi oonaflo tiioig novig hnn rylino [wVdjJed u oidlod JanT. .ytr4>) gnio'gJedoil ni hfioifornoTdooiuib•t.-rfunfl