The ^lant of Renown.BE!\TS TWOSERMONSONEzek. xxxiv, 29^And I will raise up for them, a Plantof Pcnowii'P." FAC ED BY THKRev. Mr. EBENEZER ERSKINE,Late Minister f : j C*>m : .STmitxe.1 r_ il" —   -■   r- ■ ru—-Taken in Short Ha:;d from the Author's monthin toe delivery, and revised by him*=:Vrj3S» - ' - -JFALKIRK:rm NT ED Ax\TD ?OLD 8Y T. JOHNS TO^'1813.THEPLANT OF RENOWN*SERMON I.EatK. xxxix. 29.And I ‘will raife up for them a Plantof Renown,   -Jf we call our eyes back upon the fore¬going part of this chapter, we fhall finda very melancholy fcene calling up ; we |:flvall find the fbck and heritage of G d Ifcattered, robbed and peeled by the civiland ecclefiaftical rulers that were in beingin that day; a day much like to the daywherein we live; the ruin of the Church |of Chrill in all ages and periods of thevvcrld, has been owipg to combinations be¬twixt corrupt Churchmen, and c: rrupt !Statefmen; and fo yon will find it Inthe preceding part of this chapter there isa high charge brought in againft the Shep¬herds <f lirael, and a terrible and awful 1threatning denounced by the great *»nd.chief Shepherd againfl them, for the badtreatment that the flock of Chrift had metwith in their hands : However the fheepof Chrill may be fleeced, and fcatter<iJ,and fpriled, yet the Lcrd locks tn them;and’I',and many great and precious proroifes aremade fr.r their encouragement in that evilday ; you may rsad them at your ownleafure, for I mu ft not flay upon themjuft now. But among all the reft ofthe pr, miles that are made, Chrift is thechief; Chrilt is the To-lock of the Church,whatever trouble fhe be in. In the 7th.chapter of Ifaiah, the Church had a tremb¬ling heart, God’s lira el was ihaken as everyou faw the leaves of the word fhaken bythe wind, by reah n of two Kings combin¬ing agaiirft them: Well, the Lord tells them,“ A Virgin fhall conceive and bear a Sen,and call his name Immanuel.” But, mightthe Church fay, what is that to us? Whatenccuragetrent doth this afford in the pre-fent diflrefs ? Why, fhe Mefihh is to comeof the tribe of Judah and the family ofDavid; and thertfoje that tribe and familymufl be preferved, in order to the accomp¬li fliment of that premife. Whatever dif-tance of time, fnppofe hundreds or thousandsof years, may interveen before the a£tualcoming of the Mefuali; yet the promife i>ihis coming, as it is the ground of yourfaith for eternal falvaticn, fo it is a fecurityfor the prefent, that the enemy fhall notprevail, to the total ruin of Judah and theroyal family of David. In all the diiireflssof the Church, Chrift is always prefentedto her, in the Promife, as ths Object of( 4 )herFakh, and the ground of her confolation;aad, accordingly, “ They locked to him,’* ||in the Promile, “ and were lightned; andtheir faces were not afhamed.” He ishere promiled under the aoticrj of Gad's iServant; and, in the words of the text,he is promifed as a Renovitird Plants thatwas to rife in the fulnefs of time. And, !blefled be God, he has fprung up, and isin heaven ajready, and has cvertopt allhis enemies, and all his enemies lhall bahis foot (tool.i/V, Here, then, you have a comfortablePromife of the Meffiah; where, again,you may notice the Promifer : /, I willraife up> 8tc. It is a great /, indeed ; it IsJEHOVAH, in the l^erfon of the Father:It was he that, in a peculiar manner, fenthim ; God fo loved the world, that he .gave his only begotten Son, that whomeverbelirveth in him fbotvld not perilh but haveeverbftirg life. — In the fulnefs of tirte ,jhe fent forth his Son, made of a woman,rinde under the Law, to redeem them thatwere mufor the Law, that we might receivethe dih pdon cf Sons,” God promifed to ^fend him, and accordingly he has a£lu&llyfulfilled his promife. Again,We may notice the blefiing pro-mVled, and that is, a Plant of Renown.—Chrilt gets a great many metaphoricalnames and defcriptions in Scripture:—^•xneumes he is called a.-Ibfe, fometimeshe, • 4( 5 )he is called a Sun,, and {•nieuir.es he , •called a Daor; fomeciraes. he called theTree of Lite ; fometimes he is called orething, and fometimes another; and he iacontent to be called any thing, to roakahimfelf known to us; and here he is calif ia Plant, and a Renowned Plant y but rjoifcof this afterwards. But then,2>dly, We have the production of thbPlant, I will raife him up.. Hell will en¬deavour to keep him down ; the Devil andIds Angels will endeavour to fmotber him,when he fets his head above ground : Sowe find Satan fends Herod, and Herod fendsthe bloody dragoons to murder him, whenhe came into the world : But let hell doits utmoft, as it hath done b ail ages, andis doing this day, to {mother* that Plant,tip it will be; / will raifa' Urn-v.b„ andtherefore he fhatl profper. But then again,^tbly, We may notice h$m, For whom,cr for what end, for w'hofe ufi and benco..it is : I will raife up for them a plant ofRenown. Who thefe are, you will fpnby coding your eye on the former part <Athe chapter; it is for the Lord’s fbek, hbopprelfed heritage, that are born downwicked rulers, civil and eedefta’diek; / tifijraife up for them a Kant of Renews andhe will be their Deliverer.The DoCtrine that naturally arhVs fromthis firft claofe of be verfe, is in fhort this,“ Thai(6)“ That Chrifl is a Plant of Renown, of“ G -ci’s raifing up, fur the benefit andCi advantage of his people, or for their com-fort and relief in all their diftrefihs; he is“ a Renowned Plant of God’s ralfing up.”Now, in difcourfing this DTtrine, if timeand ftrength would allow, I might,i/}, Premife a few things' concerningthis bleffcd Plant.2r//>, I might enquire, Why he is calleda Plant of Renown ?idly, Speak a little to the railing up ofthis Plant.4tbly, For whom he is railed up.St&ly, For what end. And then,Lnftly. Apply. /As to the nrft i f thefe, namely,i/r. To premile a few things concerningthis blefied Plant.I'irfc, I would have you to know whatis. ere attributed and afcribed to Chrill:It : not to be underllood abfolutely of himas G d, but officially as he is Mediatorand Redeemer. Cunfidering him abfolutelyas G J, this cannot be properly faid of himChut he was railed up; for he is God co»eqr. 'd and co-ellential with the Father tBut -Vving him as Mediator, he is a Plant,as ■ re f G 'd’s training. You willfee u: tii ; ntext, all that is fsid ofChri-it has a relpedt to him as a Mediator,thatC 7 )ik that he was to be God’s Servant te do hisItorork: In that confideration he is hereBalled a Plant, and a Plant of Renown-—-^ ®Ience, Zacharias, when {peaking of hin\rhas a phrafe much to the lame purpofe;“ He hath railed up a Horn of Salvationfor us in the houfe of his fervant David.Again,Secondly, Another thing I would haveyou to remark,, is, That this Plant is butf’mall and little in the eyes of a blind world.He was little looked upon when he fprungup in his Incarnation ; and when he washere in a ftate of humiliation, men L okertupon him “ as a Root Ipaung up out of| ' a dry ground; they law no comeiineis inhim why he fhould be defired.” And t*this day, tho’ he be in a ftate of exaltationat the right hand of God, yet he is littlethought of, and locked upon, by the gene-| rality of mankind, and the hearers of the| gofpel ; He is defpifed and rcjecled of men.But then,Thirdly, Another thing I would haveyou to remark, is, That however contemp¬tible this Plant of Renown is in the eyesof a blind world, yet he is the talleft Plantin all God’s Lebanon, there is net the likeof him in it, “ He is fairer than the childrenof men;” and, “ He is as the apple-treeamong the treea of the vvoot!.’’ If everyott faw him, ye will be ready to fay fo too.r d wlth.'Dayvd, u Whom htve I ’n hear.ert•bat ’tVee - ,A??d there vs none '• v-he.'eartt■ ■ 3: i d: ;'s'befides thee.” Again,Fs-ai'tl’ly, Another thing I remark, isris bit fled Plant of Renown, he wasi. x’y-'. vn in his death, and fprong ,pp glo-<ir.uil/ in his refurreetion ; the fword ofdivine Juftice heWed down'this Plant uponMount Calvary,, but within three days hefprung up again more gloricus and morebeautiful and amiable than ever; and *‘ Hewas declared to be the Son of God withpower, according to the’Spirit of holme ft,by his resurrection from the dead.” ,T.'fily, I would have you to remark,'That all the little plants in the garden ar*singrafted in this Plant of Renown : “ I amt’e Vinq^ ye are the branches; he thatabideth iii me, and I in him, the famebringeth forth much fruit: For without meye can do nothing.—I am a green Fir-tree,from me is thy fruit found.” If you ben t i gr.ihed, iirs, in this Plant, you willnev lagrAv ; and all the trees that are notplanted in him, they are all but weeds.-—There is a time coming when all the weedawilbbe plucked up, and therefore take heedtint .you be- ingrafted in him by a faithcf'G-v’s operation. Sj much f<r the fullthing J propofed.The( 9 )The Second thing was to {hew, That heis a Renowned Plant. Ke is renownedijTheaven, and he is renowned on earth,lend will be fo, For bis nztnr: fsali ejidurojlfc/- evdr, Pfal.lxxii. 17. O he is renowned!h For what, fay you, is he renow ned ?fl might here enter upon a very large field;I fhal! only tell you,1. That he is renowned in his Perfon.There Was never the Iks of him! The! two natures, God and man, are j ined t -(gether in one, in him: Did you ever fee that ?]f you have not feen that, yon have not feenthe Myftery of Godiinefs: He is the nioftrenowned Perfim in heaven but he isImmanuel, Cod4Wnif- hid hi the jltfi.—Then he is, • *2. Renowned for his Pedigree: iPbo candeclare bis G'cneratisn ? C nfidering himfes God, his eternal generation from theFather cann t be. told' We con tell you,he is tbc only b.gotten of the 1 ethert -hutv.e cannot tell you the manner of his gene¬ration; it is a fecret that God has drawna vail upon, and it is dangerous to ventureinto a fearch of it; and they that haveattempted it, have, commonly been bogedinto Arlan, Arrrtinian, and Sabtllian t riers.Confidering him as man, he is fjWmg «fa race of ancient Kings, a famous catalogueof them you read H in i t. of Matthew.-—And who can declare liis generation even( 1° )as man? For he was horn of a Virgin,|and conceived by the cverihadowlng power!of the HigheP.. Then,3. He is renowned for his Name.—ji*i He hath a Name above every name thalBcan be named, whether in this world oKthat which is to come.”4. He is renowned for his Wifdom.— |For, “ All the treafures of wifdom and |knowledge are in him.”5. He is renowned for his Power.—For he is not only tbe Wifdom of Godt but jthe Power of God. He is “ the Man of |God’s right hand, even the Son of Man, jwhom he hath made ftrong for himfelf.”6. He is renowned for his Veracity and |Fidelity. For, “ Faithfulncfs is the giidle ]iof his bins.” Have you get a word from |him ? Depend upon it, it is a ficker word, j/ ■ it does not fail: 7be word of tbs Lord jendures for ever, when heaven and earth jihall pal's away.7. He is renowned for his Rightecufnefs.For, “ He hath brought in an everiallingRighteoufnefs, whereby the Law is magni¬fied and made honourable;” and by the,imputation of which, the guilty tranfgrefbrsare acquitted: l' He was made iiu for us,who knew no fin, that we might be madethe Righteoufnefs of God in him Tiia:is his Name, Tbs Lord our Sf^bteoufntfs.- 8. He( It )8. He is renowned for his Fulnefs.—•For, “ All the fulnefs of the G dhead dwellsbodily in him:” He is grace andtruth; full of all created and uncreatedexcellencies.9. He is renowned for his Love.—Whatbut Lve brought him out of the hofom oftha Father to this lower world? What butlove made hifti lay down his life for hispeople ?10. He is renowned for his Liberality.He has a full hand and a free heart, as weule to lay he gives without money, and heiuvites all to come and (hare of his fulnefs.n. He is renowned for his Cmdancy.Ke is JsfusQiriiL theiftiii* V'-cLy^ yeiler-day and for ever.” Toe bell of men willfill us, whenwelruf: them; they will rualike fplinters into our hands, when we leanupon them t But, hrs, fou will find Chnltay the fame, to-day, yefterday and Lr ever.And then,is. He is renowmed for his Authorityand Dominion. It is great, and extendsfar and wide, whether in heaven above,or in the earth beneath : And his dominionreaches from fea to lea, and from theriver unto the ends of the earth And allthe kings of the earth are but his vaffuls.!Thus, I fay,is renowned.Chrift in c-very refpc&lBut( 12 )But here, to keep by the phrafeology of;-he text. He is a renowned Plant: Whereinis he renowned ?Firft, I fay he is renotvned for hisAntiquity : “ I was fet up from everlafling,irom the beginning, or ever the earthwas,” All the plants in the higherxnd lower gardens of Gad, they are butjail upftarts in companion of him : Angelsand Arch-angels, and the greateft Seraphimsare but of yefterday, in comparifon of thisPlant. He is renowned for his Antiquity,tor he is, “ The Ancient of days, and the -Everlahing Father/5 Ifaiah 9‘h. chapter.i " ■ >"'N- B. Here be 'mat defired to concludebis Difcourfe, in reJpeEl the Work inthe Church 'was over, and that he mightgive way to another Minifler that wasto treach the Fveniur- Sermon*** oSERMON( J3 )SERMON ILvEzek. xxxiv. 29.And J will raife up for them a Plantof Renown.1 Had occafion, upon a Solemnity of thisnature, not long ago, to enter upon thirwords, but had not time to go far into theimport of them. After I had traced theconnection of the words a little, I tookthem up in the few EUowirig particulars.1. We have here a great Blefiing pro¬cured unto the Church; and th*t is noneether than Chrilt, under the notion ofa Prince, and A Plant of Renown.2. We have the Party by whom thisPruraife is made, in the pronoun -I Jehovah, the Eternal GOD, 1 will raifeup for them c Plant of Renown.0. We have the way how tuis Plantcf Renown is railed; And 1 will raife him up.1 that am the great II'-Foandman of thevineyard, 1 will raife up for tbetn., &c.Then,4. T noticed the perfons to whom thePromife is made, 1 will raife up for them ;that is, for his Church, for his people thatare( U )are brought into a very low condition;as ye will fee by reading tiie preceding partof the ohapter. The flock of Chriit werefcattered by the fhepherds of Ifrael; theywere torn, they were devoured, and undermanifold trials: Well, what will the Lorddo for his flock in that condition ? He fays,I ‘will raife up for them a Plant of Retivwti,end they Jhall hunger no more.The Obfervation is much the fame withthe words thernfelves, namely, “ That ourLord Jefus Chrift is a Plant of Renown4‘ of his Father’s upbringing I will raifeup for them a Plant of Renown. In profe-cution of this Define. I uroDofed to uhlerveihe order and method mowing.Firfty To premife a few things concern¬ing this blefTed Plant.Secondly, To {hew that indeed he isA Plant of Renown. And then,7birdly, To fpeak a little concerningthe raifmg up of this Plant.Fovrtbly, For whom he is raifed up.Fifthly, For what good, or what benefitand advantage he is raifed up. And,f Laftly, To apply the whole.As to the firfl, I fp; ke tn it, and premifeda few things concerning this biefied Plant;therefore I {hall not flay to refume what( 15 )was i’aid on that Head. I likewife-enteredupon the feccnd, and Uiewed that Chrill isA Plant of Renown in feveral refpedts :I mentioned eleven or twelve Particularswherein Chrift is renov/ned, but I {hall netrefume thefe neither: I ihall only tell youa few things wherein this bleffcd Plant isrenowned.1. In the firft place, This bleffed Plant,he is renowned for his Antiquity. Thereare many other plants in God’s garden,as angels, feraphims, cherubims, faints mili¬tant and triumphant, they are all plantsof God’s garden; but they are all but up-ftarts in comparifon of hira; for he wasfet up before ever the earth was. You willfee that one Name of this Plant of Renowfcis, The Everlafting Father, or,“ The Fatherof Eternity,” as it may be rendered.2. As he is renowned for his Antiquity,fo for his Beauty : He is the moft beautifulPlant ih all the garden of God ; “ I amthe Rofe of Sharon, and the L'tlie of thevalleys. — He is as the apple-tree amongthe trees of the wood.” He Is renowned,I fay, for his Beauty and his Glory ; forthe glory ot a God is in him. Is there anyglory in his eternal Father ? Why, thatglory lhir.es in our Immanue'i., in the ver rbrightnefs ct it, Heb. i. 3. He is thebrightnefs of the Father’s glory, and theprifs image cf his Psrfon.” ILw. firs.( )if ever your eyes were upened by the Spiriti f God, to take up the glory t-f this Plant,his glory has j ilt dazled your very eyes!You that never faw any glory in him, younever faw him > this very day: Pray thatthe ..ght of the glory of God, in the faceof Jefus Chrilt, may yet fhine into yourhearts. It would make a heartfome Sacra¬ment, if this Plant were difplayed in hisglory among us. Sirs, have you come tofee him in his glory ? O give God no red,till he make a dtfcovery of himfelf to yourfouls. Then,3. He is rznowned for his Verdure, forhis perpetual Greenefs. Other plants arefading; you and X are fading plants;“ All fbfh is grefs, and all the goodlinafsthereof is as the flower of the fieldHe isSt Tree ever-green, he never fades, fummer*110r winter, and (hall be ever a green Plantto the Saints as it were to eternity ! Whenmillions of ages, yea myriads of ages arepad in heaven, he will be as frefii and greento the believer, as when he firft faw him,rr the firft moment the'faint entered glory :Therefore it is, that the fungs of the re*deemed in glory, are ay new f mgs; and,through eternity, will ay be new fongs,becaufe they will ay fee matter of a newfong; and the more they fee, they willmore wonder at him thro’ eternity! Again,4. This( i; )4. This Plant is remwned not.only Sothis Verdure, but for his Virtue. We read.Rev. xxii. “ That the leaves of the Treeof Lite were f u; the healing of the na ions.”That’Tree of Life is the very fame withthis Plant of Renown ; the leaves of thisPlant are for [healing of the nations; andlwe that are Miniliefs are come this dayto fcatter the leaves cf this Tree of Life,of this Plant of Renwn; try if you canget a leaf of it applied and let home uponyour fouls. Depend upon it, there is virtuein every word of his. Sirs, mingle faithwith a word, and you will find it will havethe fame efficacy with you, as it had withthe poor woman with the bloody ifiue, thatwas healed with a touch of the hem of hisgarmenr, who had fpeut> all her living onDoftors. O f e if you can find him lI 3fibre you he is here ; he is behind thedoor . f every man’s heart: “ Behold I fiand(fays he) at the door and knock! If any manhear my voice, and open the door, I willcome in to him, ajid fup with him, and hewith me.,, And O let him in< there isvirtue in him for curing you all, thoughthere were ten thoufand millions of youmore than theer are ; there is virtue in himfor healing every one of you. But then,5. Tills bleficd Plant is not only renownedfor his Virtue, but likewife for his Fertility.He is not a barren Plant <■ he would not bere-C *8 )renowned if he- were barren : He bringsforth all manner <jf fruit every momh; yea,I may add, everv day, every moment.-—You read in Rev. xxii. of the Tree of Lifethat brings forth twelve manner of fruitsevery month ; that is to fay, he brings forthall fruit that is neceffary for a poor foul:Whatever thy foul Hands in need of, is tobe found in him; fee then and gather, feeif you can gather fome of it. There isthe fruit of his Incarnation; there is thefruit of his Death ; there is the fruit ofliis Refurrettion ; there is the fruit of hisAl’cenfion; there is the fruit of his Inter-ceffion, and fitting at the right hand of God;there is the fruit of his Prophetic Office;there is the .fruit of his PriefUy Office;there is the fruit of his Kingly Office ;there is the fruit of hts appearing withinthe Vail ; there is the fruit of what he didwithout the Vail, and without the Camp.O what fruit is here ! Here is Wtfdom forfools ; here is Juttifioaxion for the condemnedfoul; here is Sanguification for the pollutedfoul, and Clothing for the naked ; Rich-'?for the poor, Bread for the hungry. Drinkfor the thirfly. All manner of fruit is here,and we are trying, firs, to (hake the Treeof Life among you; and biefTed be G>d,they may he gathered: O firs! they aredropping among you; O gather, gather,for Salvation is in every word that dropsfrom( 39 >from him; for his words are the words ofI u rtaL e, i »a uieueo Plant Is renownedI for ins Se nt and pleafant Savour. O firs!~ thefl’ is fetch a bldfed favour in this Plantof Reno n, as has call a perfume throughall the P radife above! He has call a per-f ic through the Church militant, whichin If«. v. is called God’s vineyard. O firs !d. ycfiird any thing of the feent of this Plant ?I can tell you, if ever you have been madeto ken him, it wriPbe fu : “ Becaufe St thefavour of thy good ointment, thy name isas ointment poured forth, therefore do thef Virgins love thee.’' The believer he findsa fc -rt .bout him, he draws a favour fromhim. What is the defign of us Miniflers,but to call abroad his feent, and it is bythis we win funis ; and they that call cutand drtp the Plant of Renown out of theirSermons, nb wonder their Sermons {link ;and they 'hail llink to eternity, that throwChrift out cf their Sermons. The greatbufinefs cf Mhufiers is to call forth thefeent of Ghrilt to the people. I (hall readyou a word to this purpofe, in 2 Cor. ii.14,—16. “ N w, thinks be unto God, whichalways caufeth us to triumph in GhrilL,, -The ap 'file triumphs in him, and all otherhonei! Miniflers will triumph in him toe;and ail Chrilliar.s that know him, triumphin him. “ And maketh manilell the favourofof his knov^’lcdgs by us in every place. | uFor we are unto. God a fiveet favour of |Chrtft, in them that are faved, and in themthat perifl'i. To the one we are the favour [of death unto death ; and to the other, the jfavour of life -unto life t and who is fufficient 'for thefe things ?” Who is aMa to tell |the fweet favour that is in him ? Again,7, This bleffed Plant in my text, is not |only renowned for his Savour, but likewifefor his Shadow, Song i. 3. “ I fat down“under his Sadow with great delight;’*the Shadow of the Plant of Renown. Youare all fitting there or {landing, but are you ||fitting under the'Plant of Renown ? Jonah’sgouard did him fervice againff the fcorchiRgheat of the fun, that was like to take awayhis life; but, alas! that foon failed him,for God fent a worm and fmote it that itwithered ; and the worm of death will fornfinite and wither you and me: O grk inunder the Shadow of this Plant of Renown,and ye are fecured againft death and vin¬dictive wrath for ever, Ge; in under h:sShadow'; the Shadow of his Intercefficn,the Shadow of his rower-, the Shadow r fhis Providence, the Shadow of h’S Faith-falnefs: O fit undej; his Shadow, and yotfwill find ihelter there againlt ail deadly ;whate'veYblafb come, you will find fafetythere. Would you be fhadewed from thekin? of terrors ? Death is a terror to manyoO if you would be fhadowed againfl theawful terrors of death and God’s vengeance,get in under this Shadow, and you are fafe.8. This Plant is renowned for his Stature.He is a high Plant, he is a tall Plant: Youfee the heavens above you, but they arebut creeping things in ccmparifon of him ;for this glorious Plant is, 7be high and loftyOne that inhabits eternity. You can neverfee his height; your eye will look high,and your thought will reach higher, butneither your eye nor thought will reachunto him ; he is taller than all the cedarsin the Lebanon of G< d: “ Eye hath not feen,nor hath ear heard, neither hath it enteredinto the heart of man,” to think of the heightand glory of this Plant of Renown ! And,Laftly, This Plant is renowned not tnlyfor his Stature, but for his Extent atfo:He is a broad Plant; he was planted inthe firfl Promife in Paradife; he fpreadthrough the Old Teftament Church ; hecame the length «;f filling the land of Judea;and, at length, this Plant has fpread itfelfamong us: And O that I could open theleaves of this Plant, to take y <u in ; he isa broad Plant, he will ferve you all. Weread of the Tree cf Lite being oh every fideof the river : There is a great river betwixtus and heaven, and that is death; and -ceare all running into this riverW deaf!'.—As one well ebferyes ca the place, ThisTree.Tree1' is in the middle of the river; he ison this fide of time, and he is on that fideof time. No tv, this Plant is on both Tidescf the river; though you tversr going to thevvafles of America, you will find him thereas well as here, if you have but the art ofimproving him. And this Plant will fpreadhimfeif through all kingdoms, “ The earthfhall be filled with the knowledge of theLord, juft as the waters cover the fea.”He will not only fill the earth, but the wholeheavens throughout eternity ! O but he isabroad Plant, that will extend himfeif bothto heaven and earth I And this fhall fervefor the Second thing prop fed. namely,To fliow, that this Plant is indeed a moltRenowned Plant.■ The Third thing I propofed, in the pro-fecution of this Dodtrine, was, Qoncerningthe raifmg or upbringing of this Plant.-—You fee it is no other than the Great GOD,that r«ifed up this Plant. I find the GreatJEHOV" \H glorying in his Ikiil and wifdoniin the railing up of this Plant for tha ufe ofthe Church. la Pfalm Ixxxix. 19. faysthe Lord, “ I have laid help upon one thatis mighty; fa have exalted one chofen outof the people; I have raifed up David myfervant; with my holy oil have I anointedhim.” Here he glories in it, that he hadraifed up this glorious Plant of Renown.( 23 )1 will tell you a few' things wifrh referenceto the raifing up of this blefied Plant*i. He was raifed up in the Gounfel ofGod’s Peace from eternity. The Trinityfat in c 'jncil anent the upbringing of him ;“ The Gounfel 0f Peace v. as between themboth,” Zecb. vi. 13. The Father and theSon agreed upon it. that in the fulnefs oftime the S; n Ihouldcome into the world.2 He was raifed up in the firfl Promifeto Adam and Eve. Till this Plant wssdifcuvtred to them, they were like to rundiftraftad : And indeed, firs, if Chrilllefsfinners faw where they were, and the wrathcf G. d that is hanging ever their heads,they w. uld be ready to run di(lra£led, tilla revelati n of Ghrill was made to them.All the Prcmifes, all the Pr -phecies, allthe Types, and all the D ftrines of theOld 1 eilamenr, they were the gradualfprirrgings of this Plant: But it was underground until,3. His a<3tua.l manifeilation in the fkfh,wheVi, in the fulneG of time, he appeared :In the fulnels «f time, God fent forth hisS*n, made 'da vvuqian, &c. And,4. This Plant was railed up even in hisDeath and Re fur region, by which he wasdeclared t* be the Son of God with power,by the Spirit or hylmefs. And,Lefily, This Plant of Renown will beraifed up in the Songs of the redeemed,through(24 )t’nrough enJlcis eternity. Thus you fee, l.Chrilt is a Flint of Renown, and what wayhe is "-aired up.The next Thing I prrpofed was, Forwhom is it that this Plant is railed up ? |O ! may fume poor thing fay, Was he everraifed up for me ? I tell you, firs, he was |never raifed up for the fallen Angels;“ For he took not on him the nature of |A.igels, but he took on him the feed of jAbraham.” Oar nature was highly hon¬oured at firft, but it loon funk below thebeaft that perifheth; but the fecond Adamtook our nature upon him, and railed it to fa higher dignity than the very Angels; lor |to which of the Angels did this this honourappertain, to be united t > the eternal Sortof God ? So that, I fay, this Plttoit ofRenown is raifed up for mankind-linners,not for angel-kind fiuners; and every man¬kind firmer that hears tell of him, theyihoukl lay claim to him, as in Ifaian ix. 6.“ To us a Son is given, to us this Childis born; and the government lliall be uponhis ftatulder: And his name {halt be calledWonderful, Counfe'lor, The Might? God,'['he everlailing Father, The Prince ofPeace.” To us he is given, unto us heis burn. — I thought to have pyue throughw-hat l defigned on this fubjedl, but timewill not allow. The Lord blefs his Word.FINIS.