A COLLECTION OFO N G S, ScCmcontaikivg J.TEY THE BONNIE BREAST KNOTS.HERE'S TO THE MAIDEN OF BLUSH¬ING FIFTEEN.TIE DASHING WHITE SERJEANT.GALEA WATER.NOTHING LIKE GROG.GILES SCROGGINS;FRIEND OF MY SOUL.M‘PHERSON’S FAREWELL.EDINBURGH.PI INTF.D FOR THE B0f>KSEl.VEIl2bmHey the Bonnie Breast K-;o!s.Hey tlie bofinioi' ho* theHey t!ie bonnie. breast-knots;Blyth and merry were they .p’,bVeaStf-kViots/" IWhen thd^ put oti theThere was a bridal in this town, rAnd tiii’l the lasses a’ were boun\.Wi’ inaukie facings on their gown,, i ,And some tif them ha^ breast-knotsSinging,, hey'the Ronnie, &C.At nine o1 cloek the-lads convene,Some clad in blue, some fclad ia green,Wi’ shinin' hucklgs in -their sheen,.And flow’rs upon their waistcoats.? <Out caTh’ the wives a’ wf'(And wish’d the la$$jes flippy daly|,iAn(d ivRickle thought they (f, their claestEspeQulJy the hreast-knotaSinging,- hev the bonnie, SivrA M4 | 'Here's to the Maiden of Blushing FifteiHere’s to the nudden -of blushing fifteen,Likewise to the widow of fifty ;... j vHere’s to the bold and extravagant quean,.And here’s to the housewife tfratV thrift*Let theDrtyk to thplips,I wnrraut she’ll prove an excuse fc"Id tlie togfor the glass!toast? pass, SnP-litft3fere’s to the maiden whose temples we prize,Likewise to her that has noiie, sir ;i Here’s to the maid with a pair of black eyes.And here's to her that’s but one, sir.Let the toast pass, &c.idiist) ’o tihi i adi ii'j-ijtrtHere’s to the maid with a bosom of snow,And to her that’s as brown as a berry ;il Here’s to the wife with a facd fhll of wOe,And here’s to the girl that is merry.Ldt the' toast pass, Sec.;Lct her be clumsy, or let her be slim,Young or ancient I care not a feather ;tiS ) fill a pint bumper quite up to the brim,And e'en let us toast them together.Let the toast pass, Sic.The Dashing White Serjeant.I had a beau, for a soldier who’d .go,Do you think I’d say no ? No, no, not I !when hisred coat I saw, not a sigh w ould it draw,|But I’d give hint ‘edat’ for his bravery!an anny of Amazons e’er bame in play,s a dashing white serjeant I’d march away !i :hen my soldier vva$ gone, d’ye think I d lake on,?H moping forlorn ? No, no, not I 1'? is fame my concern, how iny bosom vyould burn.When I saw him return crowned with victory i'an army of Amazons e’crcarne in play,i s a dashing white serj ant I’d march away !4Galla H'aU?'.Braw, braw lads on Yarrow brapgYi Zander through the blooming heather;But Yarrow braes, nor Ettrick shaws,Can match the lads o’ Galla water.But there is ane, a secret ane,Atom them a’ I lo'e him better,And I’ll be his, and he’ll be mine,The bonny lad o’ Gajla water.Alt ho’ his daddie was nae laird,An’ luo’ I hae nae meikle tocher,Yet rieh in kindest, truest love,We’ll tetit our flocks bv Galla water.It ne’er was wealth, it ne’er was wealth.That coft contentment, peace, or pleasure jThe bands and bliss o’ mutual love,O that’s the chiefest warld’s treasure.Nothing Like Grog.A plague oTthose musty old lubbers,Who tell us to fast and to think,And 'patient fall in with life’s rubbers,With nothing but water to drink.A can of good stuff, bad they twigg’d it,”1 would have set them for pleasure agog,And, spite of the rulesOf the schools,The old foolsWould have alt of’em swigg’d it.And swore, there was nothi »g like grog.53Uv failicr, when last T tVom GuineallcuiniM, with abitiidance ol wealth,Cry’d, ‘ Jack, never be such a ninnyTo drink said I, ‘ Father, your health.’So 1 skew’d him the siufT, and he twigg'd it.And it set the old codger agog,And he swigg’d, and mother.And sister, and brother,And I swigg’d, and all of us swigg'd it.And swore there was nothing like grog.’Tother day, as the chaplain was preaching,Behind him I curiously slunk,And while he our duty was teaching,As how we should never get drunk ;1 show’d him the stuff, and he twigg’d it,And it soon set hia rev’rence agog.And he swigg’d, and Nick swigg’d.And Ben swigg’d, and Dick swigg’d,And I swigg’d, and all of us swigg’d it,And swore there was nothing like grog.Then, trust me, there’s nothing like drinking,So pleasant, on this side the grave,—i It keeps the unhappy from thinking,And makes e'en more valiant the brave ;ij As for me, from the moment I twigg’d it,The good stuff has set me agog,:|ick or well, late or early,—wind foully or fairly,ifelm a-lee or a-weather,—for hours together,I I’ve constantly swigg’d it,And d me, there's nothing like grog.n GHe.s Scroggins., .A"m1cs StTOirguis eMirled Molly Hidwn,J Fol doruVcIle !' l, fol dfriddle lido;/ ’J'Ih- (digest wVtidi in all the town,Kdl’dier-iddle lol; &c.'lie bought her a rtng with a posey true,“ IT y ou Iov¥i I as 1 loves you,No knife can cut mir lore in two.”Fo! deriddle lol, &c.* did ton 9t?(ii siown iJlut ^clssars cuts as well as knjves,F^ tlddiddlelol, \ ic s ■«And inuie unsaftih’s £tin6WiHiVe«.JmiFot deritBU’d'fcl, Sc.-"T'he day i her were to have been wed,Fate’s <sHl'*ars 'tnit nodi'Giles’s thread,So they couftf iioFoe rnar-ri-ed.-o Fol deriddlc lol, fee.nz nftl n(iAPoor Molly, laid her down to weep,Fol dei iddli 4>1, Sic.And oriecf lierseff quite fast asleep,Fol di-riddle loli S:e.\Vhen standing alt by the hetFpost,A figure tall her siFirt ortyro'isM,And it'^rled,- I beez Gib's Fci*t»*^itis’sFol deriddle lol, &c.J "ft r »>o fliost it said aU sotnnuv,deriddiei-i;^; 'IiV, you must (jy. vuth I :Fol.ibntl.jJe^^c,Ail to the grave, your Iovp to cno\She says, I am not dead you I'ooi,•}r«9lfli Says the ghost, says he, vy that’s iu> rule lFol de riddle, : lf[I The ghost he seiz’d her all so gi iia,I Fol (leriddle lof, 8tc. ,!'>! Alt- for to go along with him,Fol deriddle lol, &c. .II Come, come, said he, ere morning Loam,I von’t, said she, and. site; screnm’ii a scre*irfvl Then she woke, and found sire hudvdreamt a dream.Fol deriddle lol, Sic. ■ o/Toiajyj.0/Friend of My Soul.‘Aui'-J'-nA-- -z,Wm7r--r r 11 ha Aliut, on ! tis more sincere,.Like her delu*ive neatn^Twiil steal away thy mind ;But, like affection’s dn'-Biri, ’1It leaves no sting behind._ jlxaqab. lioor iTi-jrjiad.vfa eaiml il .'Come, twinfe tlie wreath, thy Lrpvv.s^^hade,Tht$e flovv^ers were culled at noon ;Like tVbfrtaivs love, the rose will fade,Butvhh.! not?ha!f so. soon flawn i ^ , vo'/.But, though the flower’s ■tSccayCd/It’s fragrance is not o’^r r v/o ' v. MBut once a hen lov4s Le^rdyed,.oiTUe h«uti(iuirbioctn no more.8M‘Phcr&on $ Farewell.Farewell, ye dungeons, dark and strong.The wretch’s destinie !M'l’herson’s time will not be longrtjOn yonder gallows tree.Chorus.—^Sae rantingry, sae wantonly',Sae dauntingly' gaed he';He played a spring, and danced it round.Below the gallows tree.O, what is death but parting breath ?On mony a bluidy plainI’ve dared his face, and in this placeI scorn him yet again !Sae rantingly, kc.Utilie these bands from off thy hands,And bring to me my sword ;And there’s no man in all Scotland.But I’ll brave him at a word.Sae rantir.gly, See.I’ve lived a life of sturt and strife ;I die by ueapherie;It, bums my heart—I must depart,And not avenged be.Sae rantingly, Ac., <ii •*.' 92u': ' .ovp] s r fr.u'fi oa .Now, farewell, light, thou sunshine bright,^hd all berreath the sky !May coward shame disdain his name.The wretch that dare not die ! )Sae ritn; irigj