THEPoor Mans Labour never DoneOr, the»»; Mother’s Advice.TO WHICH ARE ADDED,(A SATYR ON ALL TRADES.| AND|The:AULD MAN’S MARE’S DEAD.GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. & M ROBERTSON,SALTM4RKETf igoj.( 2 )The Poor Man's Labour’s never Done.IWHen I was a batchelor I lived rarely,and my mind it was content;I married a wife for to lie by me,which makes me now for to lament.When I became a fervant to her,I milk’d her cow and black'd her Ihoon,Womens* ways they muft have pleafurc,the poor man’s labour's now begun.In the morning when I do rife,for fear my work Ihould be behind,My wife’s in bed to twelve o’clock,the fhorteft day in the winter time.When l come in both wet and weary,cold and wet I cannot fliun.My wife’s in bed, has on no fire,the poor man’s labour’s never done.The firft half year that we were married,I could hardly take one night’s deep.She’d nip my fhins till the blood did trinkle, jfaying, hulband dear ft reach down your feet.When l alk’d what was the reafon,Ihe cries husband. Come, come, come jWomens’ way they muft have pleafure,the poor man’s labour’s never done.( 3 )The next half year that we were married,(he bore to me a lovely babe.She fet me down to rock the cradle,and give it caudle when it wak’d.| If it fcreechM, (he bitterly fcolded,then my. forrow was begun;' Womens* ways they mud have pleafure,the poor man’s labour’s never done.| At twelve o’clock of the night,j (lie would embrace me in my deep,| Take me in her infolded arms,wanting what (he cannot get.3 She bereaves me of the blankets,if I fpeak I’m forc’d to run,r Wanting breeches, wig and waiftcoat,I the poor man’s labour’s never done.All you that has a mind to marry,l pray you marry a loving wife.Do not marry my wife’s filter,for (he will plague you all your life.Do not marry her mother’s daughter,fhe will plague you evermore;Take from me my wife and welcome,and then my care and trouble’s o’er.Out fpoke my good old mother,as (he fat weeping all alone,Son, (lie faid, There’s women plenty,and why (hould you be bound to one ?Take another one and try her,if you find (he does not do.Take the third one, and a fourth one,then your pleafure's always new.*C' i'fiiA S A r Y R upon all T R A D E S.THERE'S ne'er a thriving trader,__ that daily cheats the town,But Beelzebub his leaderwill mark him for his own, ^And alfo fake a fpecial care,that he (hall undergo.For evermore the wretched fate,of his dark (hades below.CHORUS.Whilft the merry merry fongftersthey only foar above.There’s ne'er a crime can fix on them,except to fing and love.As for the reverend Preachers,we’ll decently pafs by.Since true religious teachers,(hould Beelzebub defy;But for the Clerk and Sexton,who vilely rob the dead,tThe Fiend Ihall have a (hare of themas hire as loaf is bread.Chor. Whilft the merry, &c.As fof our jovial Sclattersour dear beloved crew,I would have them be careful,and pay poor men their due,And do not drive to wrong them,it's a pity to rebel, >But-pay poor men what is their due,and you (hall profper well.IChor. Whiift the merry merry foogfter[' The Poulterer {hall ly there,for {linking ducks and teal;The Butcher too {hall fry there,for blowing up their veal:!! And the Soldier damn’d for bragging,grim Pluto never fails:; And Punks for buttocks wagging,and turning up their tails.Chor. Whilft the merry, &c.I The Quack, now turn’d Phylictan,I that fcarce can cure the itch,Yet tell you your condition,as if he were a witch:Shall with his glifter-maker,in Limbo’s pit lye low,Tor making pills to cure all ills,'which none of them do know.Chor. Whilit the merry,. &c.Large {hoals of pois’nous Venders,lewd Vintners there will come.And {lore of ware-houfe Fenders,that cheat by yard and thumb,. ( 5 )Whom Pluto willingly will hand,into his gloomy cell.And throw them in among the d———deternally to yell.Chor;r Whilft the merry, &c.The Tapfter from the cellar,that fills their pots with froath ;The nimble finger’d Taylor,that nips away our cloath :The Brewer and the Baker,lhall there each one abufe.And Qrifpin the {hoe-maker,bewail his rotten {hoes. Chor. Whilft, &e.The Banker for purloining,will give the Devil his due.For clipping and for coining,if all that’s faid be true.Nor will the gripping Lawyer,atone his forging fin.For foon in hell old Satan will,make Parchment of his /kin.Chor. Whilft the merry, &c.But as for Perriwig-makers,that curfed cheating crew.That lye as faft as Quakers,and fell old hair for new;Old Beelzebub their maftcrwhen he doth get them there,Will bake, and boil, and ro^ft them,as they have done old hair.Chor. Whilft the merry merry fongfters, &c.( 7 - )But as for wicked failors,who whore and drink fo faft.Who never want for Punk and Punchas long as money laft:Old Beelzebub their Boatfwain,will have them at his call.And in his brimftone fiery lake,thefe finners will keelhaul.Chor. Whilft the merry, &c*The Merchant and Stock-jobber,will there find little cafe.For turning public Robber,' and plundering on the feas:The Mifer and Pawn-broker,of Pluto's flaves the worft,, Are juftly rang'd in order,I to be for ever curft.Chor. Whilft the merry, &c.I But as for wicked Players,that ftrole from place to place.With very little money,and full as little grace;Old Lucifer their Prompter,will (hew them a fine {how,, And make them ad their parts again,cn his dark ftage below.Chor. Whilft the merry, &c.' Then he who would be happy ftill,muft this advice embrace ;(Which lead men unto Sion’s hill,among the Holy Race,,)To lay afide thefc cheating arts,which plunge -men into hell.And ad the merry Songfter's part,fo gentlemen farewel. Chor. Whilfl, etc*The AULD MAN'S MARE’S DEAD.TH E auld man's mare's dead.The puire man's mare's dead.The auld man's mare's dead, ■A mile ahoon Dundee.She had the hooks they ca'd the crooks.The jaw pilh and the wanton looks:On every lug (he had the brooks, jAnd the hooks aboon her eye.Chor. And the auld man's mate's, etc.She was cut-luggit, panch-lipit.Steel-warned, ilanchel-fitit,Chanteirchaftet, and lang-neckit,And yet the bruit did die.Chor. And the auid Man's, etc.When firft my mafter came to town.He tied me to a ftanchel round.He took a chappin to himfel.But ne’er a dvap gae me.Chor. And the auld man’s mare’s dead,The puire man’s mare’s dead;The peats and tures and a’s to lead,And yet the brute aid die.W ,    gTCT.w « <aOT,il»il I ■ —Printed by J. 5c M. ROBERTSON, Saitmerket.