The Laird of Cool’sG H O S T,BEINGWonderful and True Account of| Several Conferences betwixt the Revd.Mr Ogilvie, late Minifter of the GofpeiIat Mnerwick, and the Ghoft of thei deceail Mr Maxwell, late Laird of Cool.iWritten by Mr Ogilvic’s own hand, and found inhis Clofet after his Death, which happenedvery foon after thefe Conferences.( 2 )THELaird of Cool’s Ghoft.UPON the third of February, 1724, at fe'o’clock at night, after.that 1 had parwith Thurfton, and coming up the huroad, one came up riding after me : u_hearing the noife of the horfe’s feet, I took itbe Thurfton ; but looking back and feeinghorfe of a grey colour, 1 called, Who’s theThe anfwer was, The laird of Cool, be not afiLooking to him, with the little light the mafforded, I took him to be Collector Caftlelwho had a mind to put a trick upon me ; andmediately I flruck with all my force with my csthinking I would leave a mark upon him,would make him remember his prefumption:being fenfible I aimed as well as ever I did inlife, yet my cane finding no refiftance, but fbout of my hand, to the diftance of fixty feet,o.bferving it by it’s white head, I dilmountedtook it up; but had fome difficulty in mounagain, partly by the ramping horfe, and partbreafon of a certain fort of trembling througimy whole joints ; fomething alio of anger ha<fhare inthe confufion, for he laught when myflew out of my hand. Coming up with him a(who halted all the time I was feeking my ftl1 afked him once more who he was he anfwcjThe laird of Cool. I enquired firfl, if he wa:laird of Cool ? lecondly, What brought himther? and thirdly, What was bis bufinefs ’( 3 ): ? He anfwered, The reafon that I want you,that I know you are diipofed to do far me,,at none of your brethren in ^ithfdale will foich as attempt, though it ferve never fo goodlurpofe. I told him, I would never refufe toany thing to ferve a good purpofe, if I thoughtras obliged to do it as ray duty. He anfwered,lat I had undertaken what few in Nithfdate»uld, for he had tried feveral perfons on that)je£t, who were more obliged to him than Is to any perfon living. Upon this I drew myIdle reins, and talked in furprife, alking whatlad undertaken ? He anfwered, that on Sabbath:, I heard you condemned Mr Paton and theter miniders of Dumfries, for dilfuading of1 Menzics from keeping his appointment with; and if you had been in their place, you wouldie perfuaded the lad to do as [ defired, and thati would have gone with him yourfelf, if he hadin afraid j and that if you had been in| Paton’s place, you would have delivered myjimiflions yourfelf, fince they tended to doUral perfons juftice. I afked him, Pray Cool,o informed you that I talked at this rate ? Toidi he anfwered, You mud know that we arejuainted with many things that the living knowhing about. Thefe things you did fay, andj;h more to that purpofe, and nil that 1 want,|hat you would fulfil your promife, and deli-: my commidions to my loving wife. Upon4 I laid, ’Tis a pity, Cool, that you who knowinany things, Ihould not know the differenceveen an abfolute ancKi conditional promife ;1 indeed at the time you1'mention, blame( 4 )Mr Paton, for I thought him juftly blamcablhindering the lad to meet with you ; and if 1been in his place, I would have acted quitereverfe ; but I did never fay that if you wcome to Innerwick and employ me, that I w.go all the way to Dumfries on fuch an errthat is what never fo much as entered intothoughts. He anfwered, what were your thouI don't pretend to know, but I can'depend 01information, that thefe were your words ; Ifee you are in fome diforder, I will wait iyou when you have more prefence of mind.By this time we were at James Dkkfon’clofure, below the church-yard, and when Irecollecting in my mind, if ever 1 had fpoke Iwords, I alledged he broke from me througlchurch-yard with greater violence than everman on horfe-back was capable of, with ftfinging and buzeing noife, as put me in gr<diforder than I was all the time I was withI came to my houfe, and mvy wife obferved tthan ordinary palenefs in my countenance,would aliedge that fome thing ailed me ; I cfor a dram, and told her 1 was a little un‘After I found myfelf a little refreflied, I wemy clofet to meditate upon this the moft alioing adventure of my whole life.Upon the fifth of March, 17:24, being at Ihead baptizing the fhepherd's child, I came <fun-fetting, or a little after, and near WiWhite's march, the laird of Cool came upme as formerly; and after hij fii fl: fali.tabade me not be afraid. I told him, I was nthe lead afraid, in the name of God, and (\t Saviour, that he would not do me the leaftjrm, for I knew that he in whom I truhed, wasbnger than all they put together ; and if any of!'m fliould attempt to do (even to the horfef i ride upon) as yon have done to Doctormzies’ man, if it be true that isfaid, and gene-|]y believed about Dumfries, I have free accefs .'tomplain to my Lord and Maher, to the lafaliyhofe refentment you are liable now as before.\\qoL ifou need not multiply words upon that,!d, for you are as fafe with me, and fafer, if'r can be, than when I was alive.\gilvy. Well then, Cool, let me have a peace-si-and eafy converfation with you for the timeride together, and give me fome informationsSt the affairs of the other world, for no man4nes to lofc his time in converting with thejl, without hearing or learning fomethingi is ufeful. &w°!‘' ^ ell Hr, I will fatisfy you as far as Ip hi proper and convenient. Let me knowt information you want from me.nl. May I then atk you, if you be in a flatspppinefs or not ?i ol, there are great many things lean anfwerthe living are quite ignorant of; there are'.eat many things that notwithhanding theiHon d knowledge I have acquired fince myi, that i cannot anfwer ; and there are ai many quettions and things that you mayof which the laft is one, that I will not.er.' ll‘ !11:11 f know not how to manage ourjfrlation; for whatever I thail enquire of you;I fee you can cafily fhift me, fo that I might pfit more by converfing with myfelf.Cool. You may try.Ogil. Well then, what fort of a body is it (iyou appear in ? and what fort of a horfe is tyou ride upon,which appears to be fo full of meCool. You may depend upon it, it is notfame body that I was witnefs to your marriin, nor in which I died, for that is in the grrotting; but it is fuch a body as ferves me imoment; for I can fly as fleet with it as my .ean do without it; fo that I can go to Dumfand return again, before you can ride twicelength of your horfe ; nay, if I have a mintgo to London or Jerufalem, or to the moon ifpleafe, I can perform all thefe journies equfoon, for it cofh me nothing but a thoughlwifli ; for this body is as fleet as your thouj'for in a moment of time you can turn }thoughts on Rome, I can go there in perfon :as for my horfe, it is much like myfdf, forAndrew Johnfton my tenant, who died forty-ehours before me.Ogil. So it feems when Andrew Johnflorclincs to ride, you mull: ferve him in the qu:of an horfe, as he does you now.Cool. You arc miftaken.Ogil. I thought that all diftin&ions betvmiftreffes and maids, lairds and tenants, had ldone away at death.Cool. True it is but you do not take upjmatter.Ogil. This is one of the queflions youjtnfwer?C 7 )Cool. You are miftaken, for that queftion I cahntwer, and after this you may underftand it.j OgiL Well then, Cool, have you never yetippeared before God, nor received any fentenceom him as a Judge. Cool. Never yet.Ogil. I know you was a fcholar, Cool, and ’tis;nerally believed that there is a private judge-ent befide the general at the great day; the‘inner immediately after death Upon this heinterrupted me, arguing,!j Co!?/. No fuch thing, no fuch thing! no trial till;ie great day. The heaven which good men. ijoy after death, confifls only in ferenity ofieir minds, and fatisfadtion of good confciences,hd the certain hopes they have of eternal joy,hen that day {hall come. The pQnifhment or-11 of the wicked immediately after death, con-ds in the dreadful flings of an awakened confci-uce, and the terrors of facing the great judge,id the fenfible apprehenfions of eternal tormentsxfuing, and this bears flill a due proportion toie evils they did when living ; fo indeed theate offome good folks differ but little iri happi-Ts from what they enjoyed in the world, favealy they are free from the body, and fins an^‘trows that attend it: on the other hand, ther<?i e fome who may be laid rather not to have beenpod, than that they were wicked, while living ;aeir Hate is not eafily difltnguifhed from that ofae former, and under that clafs comes a great|“rd of fouls, a vaft number of ignorant people,I ho have not much minded the affairs of eternity,Ut at the fame time have lived in much indo-j:nce, ignorance, and innocence.( 8 )Ogil. I always thought that their rejecting thterms of lalvation offered, was fufficient grounfor God to punifh them with his eternal clifplejfure ; and as to their ignorance, that could nevuexcufe them, fince they liveJn a place of thworld where the knowledge of thefe things mighhave been eafily attained.Cool, They never properly reje&ed the termof falvation, they never, ftri&ly fpeaking, rejetteChrifl; poor fouls, they had as great a liking botto him and heaven as their grofs imaginationwere capable of : Impartial reafon mull; makmany allowances, as the ftupidity of their parentswant of education, diftanee from people of goolenfc and knowledge, and uninterrupted applicalion they were obliged to give to their feculaaffairs for their daily bread, the impious treacher;of their pallors, who perfuaded them, if thewere of fuch a party, all was well; and manother confiderations, which God, who is purand perfeft reafon itfelf, will not overlookthefe are not fo much under the load of divindifpleafu^e, as they are out of his grace anfavour ; and you know it is one thing to bdifeouraged, and quite another thing to be perfecuted with all the power and rage of an incenfed earthly king. I affure you, men’s faceare more various and different in the worldthan their circumftances are after death.0%il. I am loath to believe all that you hav.faiil at this time, Cool, (but I will not diipute thofmatters with you) becaufe fame things you have advanced feem to contradid: the feriptures, which I lhall always look upon as the infallible truth of God; for 1 fin-i the parable of Dives and Lazarus, that the one wasnmediately after death carried up by the angels intobraham’s bofom, and the other immediately thruftawn to hell.I Cool. Excufe me, fir, that does not contraditt oneiord that I have faid, but you feem not to underhandtie parable, whofe only end js to illufirat# the truth,Hat a man may be very happy and flourilhing in thisorld, and moft wretched and miferable in the next;id that a man may be miferable in this world, andlore happy and glorious in the next.Ogil. Be it lo, Cool, 1 ('hall yield that poi-nt to you,Ijid pals to another which has afforded me much (pecula¬tion lir.ce our lafi encounter, and that is how you comea know that I talked after that manner I did concerning,jlr Paton, on the firfi Sabbath of February lah. Was;nu prefent with us, but invilible ? He anl'wered veryJughtily, No fir, I was not prefent myfclf. I an-3/ered, I would not have you angry Cool; I propofediris quefiion for my own fatisfaiftion, but if you don’t;iink it pro;v;r to anfwer, let it pafs. After he hadmied with his eye* on the ground for three or fourdimites of time at moff, with feme ha-fite and ieemingtiearfulnefs, fay*,jjCool. ell fir, I will fatisfy yo^u in that point: Youufi know that there are lent trom heaven angels tojiard and comfort, and fo to do other fpecial ^ood fer-ices to good people, and even the (pirits of good men(parted, are employed in that fame errand.jOgil. And do you not think that every man has a!>od angel ?Cool. No, but a great many particular men have;Ere are but few houfes of diflin&ion efpecially, butjaat have at lead one attending them, and from whatiu have already heard of fpirits, it is no difficult mat-jr to underllsnd how they may be ferviceablc to eachjnicular member, tho’ at different places, at a greatdance. Many are the good offices which ibe goodiigds do to them that fear God, tho’ many times they( I® )are not fenfible of it ; and I know affuredly, that orpowerful angel, or even an adtive clever foul departeomay be fufficient for fome villages; but for your grescities, fuch as London, Edinburgh, or the like, thereone great angel that has the luperjmendance of titwhole; and there is inferior angels, or fouls departetto whole peculiar care fuch a man, of fuch a particulaweight or bulinels is committed. Now fir, thekingdoiof Satan does ape the kingdom of Chrilt as much imatters of politicos as can be; well knowing, that thcourt of wiidom is from above : lb that from thencare fent out miflioraries in the fame order ; But becautthe kingdom of Satan is much better replenifhed thathe other, inftead of one devil, there are in many irfiances, two or three commifftoned to attend a particulafamily of influence and diflir.dfion.. °VLl read that there are ten thonfand times tejlthoinand of angels that wait upon God and fing his praiand do his will, ami I cannot underlland how the gotangels fliould be inferior in number to the evilCool. Did I not fay, that whatever the number bthe fpirits departed are employe*! in tlx; fame bulinelfo that as to the number of original deities, where'Satan is chief, I cannot determine, but you need mildoubt but there are more fouls departed in that placjlwhich in a loofe fenfe you call hell, by almoll an injnity, thafl what are gone to that place which in a lialfenfe you call heaven, which likewife arc employed 'Ithe fame purpofe; and 1 can ailure you by the bye, th |there is as great difference between angel", both good atbad, as there is among men, with refpeft to their feniknowledge, cunning, clevernds and action; nay, whiis more, the departed fouls in both fides oi^-do fevera jfrom their very firfl departure, of the original angel ,This you will perhaps think a paradox, but it is true.Ogil. I de not do ubt ir, but what is that to my qiiwtion about whst I am folicitous ?Cool. Take a little patience, fir, from what 1 halaid, you might have underftood me, if you had yq( ir )jthoughts about you, but I (ball explain myfelf-to you.^Both the good and the bad angels have rtated times of'rendezvous, and the principal angels, who have the: charge either of towns, cities or kingdoms, not to men¬tion particular perfons, villages and families, and all thatt, is tranfacfed in thefe ieveral parts of the country, arethere made open, and at their rc-encounter on each fide,j every thing is told, as in your parifli, in milns, kilns, andJfmithies, only with this difference, that many thing*falte are talked at the living re-encounters, but nothingbut what is exadt truth is laid or told among the dead;only 1 mult obi'erve to you, that as I am credibly inform¬ed, feveral of the inferior bad angels, or fouls of thewicked men departed, have told many things that theyhave done, and when a more intelligent fplrit is fent outupon enquiry, and the report of the former feemingdoubtful, he brings in a contrary report, and makts itappear truth; the former fates very ill. Neverthelefs,tiieir regard to truth prevents it; for while they obferve1 the truth, they do their bufinefs, and keep their llation,] for God is truth.Ogil. So much truth being among the good angels, Iam apt to think that lies and falfehood will be as muchin vogue among the bad.Cool. A grol's mifiake, and it is not the alone miflakewhich the living folks fall under, with refpfcl to theother world, fer the cafe plainly is this, an ill man willnot flick at. any falfehood to promote his defign, fo, oslittle will an evil foul departed, (land at any thing that‘ can make himfelf fuccefsful; but in making report, hemud tell the truth, or woe be to him; but befides theirmonthly, quarterly, or yearly meetings, or whateverthey be, departed fouls acquainted, may take a trip tofee one another yearly, weekly, daily, or oftener ifthey pleafe. Thus then 1 anfwer your quedion that you; was fo much concerned about, for my information wasfrom no lefs than three perfons, viz. Andrew Aikman,who attends Thurfkm’s family; James Corbar, whowaits upon Mr Paton, For the time, who was then look-ing after Mrs Sarah Paton, who was at your houfe; ancan original emifTary appointed to wait upon yours.At this I was much furprized, and after a little think¬ing, lafleed him. And is there really. Cool, an emilFaryfrom hell, in whatever fenfe you take it, that attendsnay family ? Cool. Yes, you may depend upon it.Ogil. And what do you think is his bufinefs?Cool. To divert you from your duty, and caufe youunderhand, to do as many ill things ai be can, for muchdepends on haying the minider on their fide.Upon this I was (truck with a fort of terror, whichI cannot account for, nor exprefs : in the mean time,he Paid fcveral things I did not underlland ; but after alittle, I coming to my former prefence of mind, laid,Ogil. But Cool, tell me in earned, if there be indeeda devil that attends my family, tbo’ invifible to us all.Cool. Juft as lure as you are breathing ; but be not:fo much deje&ed upon this information, for I tell youIjkewlfe, that there is a good angel that attends you,,who is (Ironger than the other.Ogil. Are you fure of that Cool ?Cool. Yes ; and there is one riding on your righthand, who might as wfell have been elTewhere, for Ymeant yon no harm.Ogil. And how long has he been with me?Cool. Only ftpee we pafled Brand’s lee; but now heis gone.Ogil. We are jofl uopn Elenfcleugh, and I defire topart with you, tho’ perhaps I have gained more by oureonverfation, than I would have done other wile in atwelve-month, I chufe rather to fee you another time,when you’re at leifure, and I wifb it were at as great adiftance from Innerwick as you can.Cool. Be it fo, fir, but I hope you will be fo obligingto me next re-encounter, as I have been to you this.Ogil. I promife you I will, in as far as is confidantwith my duty to my Lord and Miff r, Ghrilt J fu ; ;and finee yvtu have obliged me fo much by information,I will anfwcr all the queftions you prorofe, as far z' <( ^ )coivfifts with my knowledge; but, 1 believe, yon waritno information from me.Cool. I came not here to be inffrudfed by you; but Ii want your help of another kind.Upon the 9th of April 1724, as I was returning fromj< Old Hamflock, Cool came up with me on horfe-back,at the foot of the ruinous inclofure, before we came toDod : I to"d him, his lafl converiation had proved loacceptable to me, that 1 was well pleafed to fee himI again, and that there was a vaft nomber of things that1 wanted to inform myfelf further of, if he would bei'o good as to fatisfy me.; Cool. Lad time we met I refufed you nothing youaired, ami now I expect that you lhall refufe me nothingthat I fnall afk. »Ogil. Nothing fir, that is in my power, or that Ican do with fafety to my reputation and character.What then are your demands?Cool. All that I defire of you is, that as you promifedthat fabbath-day you would go to my wife, who nowpoff. lies all my eftedb, and tell her the following parti-culars, and tell her in my name to redtify theft matters.Firft, That I was owing juflly to provofi Crofby, 50I.Scots, and three years intered; but hearing of his death,tny good-brother, the laird ot C 1, and I, forged adifeharge, narrated the bond, the fum, and other parti¬culars, with this honourable claufe, that at that time, iti had fallen by, and could not be found, with an obliga-j tion on the provofi’s part to deliver up the bond as foouas he could hit upon it y and this dilcharge was dated 3months before the provoft’s death; and when his fona«d fucc.flbr, Andrew Crofby, wrote to me concerningthis bond. I came to him, and (bowed him his difiharge,which filenced him, fo that I got up tny bond witho'utmore ado. And when F heard of Robert Kennedy’s death, withthe fame help of C— 1, I got a bill upon him for 190I. of whichI got full and compleat payment, C 1 got the hah. WhenI was at /Jumfriee, the day that Thomas Grier d ed, to whom Ii was owing an account of 36I C—1 my good brother was then atLondon, and not being able of rojfelf, being but a bad writer, ts( H )get a difcharg* of the accompt, which I wanted exceedingly,met accidentally with Robert Boyd, a poor Writer lad in DumfriesI took him to Mrs Carnock’s, and gave him a bottle of wine, anctold him that I bad paid Thomas Grier’s account, but wanted idifcharge, and if he would help me to it, I would reward himHe flew away from me in a great paflion, faying, He would rathe [Ibe hanged; but if I had a mind for thefe things, Ihadbettellwait till C-11 came home. This gave me great trouble, fearinJwhat C-.1 and I had done formerly was no fecret. I followecjBoyd to the ftreet, and made an apology that I was jefting, com-|mending him for his bonefty, and took him fclemnly engaged^never to repeat what had pafied. I fent for my confin 13. H. youiflgood brother, who with no difficulty, for a guinea and a lialfjundertook, and performed all that I wanted ; and for a guineimore, made me up a difcharge for aco I. Scots, that I was owingto your father in law, and his friend Mr Mairhead; which difcharge I gave to John Ewart, when he defired the money ; anthe at my defire produced it to you, which you fuftained.A great many of the like inftances were told, of which I cannotremember theperfons names, and things ; but lays he, what vexesme more than all thefe, is the injuftice 1 did to Homer Maxwell,tenant to my Lord Nithfdale, for whom I was fadtor. I borrowed2000 merks from him, joo of-Which he borrowed from anothei;hand; 1 gave him my bond, and for reafons I contrived, f obligedhim to fecrecy ; he died within the year, and left nine children,,and his wife had died before himfelf. I came to feal'up his jpapers for my Lord’s fecurity. His eldeft daughter intreated meto look through them all, and to give her an account what wastheir flock, and what was their debt; I very willingly undertookit, and in going through the papers, I put my own bond in mypocket: his circumftances proving bad, his nine children are nowitarving. Thefe things I defire you to reprefent to my wife, andtake her brother with you, and Jet them be immediately rectified,for the has a fuflicient fund to do it upon, and if it were done, Iwould be eafy and happy ; therefore you will make no delay.After a fhortpaufe, I anfwered, ’Tis a good errand, Cool, youare fending me to do juftice to the oppreffed and injured, butnotwithftanding that 1 fee myfelf come in for *oo 1. Scots, let mekeg a little time to confider on the matter, and fince you are asmuch matter of reafon now as ever, and more than ever, we willtirlt reafon upon the matter in its general view, and then withrefped to the expediehey of my being the mefTenger, and this 1will do with all manner of franknefs. From what you have faid,I fee clearly what your prefent ftate is, fo that there neods be nomore queftions on that head, and you need not bid me take cour¬age, and not be afraid of you, for at this moment. I am no more Iafraid of you than of a new born child. <7ool. Well, fay on.i. ’ . ( i5 ) .Ogil- Tell me then, fince fuch is your ability, that you can flythoufand miles in the twinkling of an eye, if you defire to do thepprefied jultice, be as great as you preteniTwhat’s the reafonou don’t fly to the coffers of fome rich Jew or bankier, wherehere are ten thoufands of gold and filver, and invifibly lift, andvifibly return it to the injureff? And (ir.ce your wife has fuflicientund and more, why cannot you empty her purfe in your invifi-lity, to make thefe people amends ? Cool. Becaule I cannot.Jj Ogil. If thefe things be re&itied, you would be eafy and happy,t| don’t at all credit that, for whatever juftice you may do to theaeople, yet the guilt of the bale adtion always remains on you-u Cool. Now you think you have filenced me, and gained a nobleijiftory ; but l will fhow you your miftake immediately, for Inanuot touch any gold or money, by reafon of thefe fpirits thatire hated guardians of juftice and honefty.i| Ogil. What is that you tell me, Cool! do not unworthy fel-•uvrs break houfes every night, and yet you, that can put yourfelfito fo many hundred various fhapea in a moment, cannot do it:1'Vhat is that you tell me. Cool!ll Cool. ’ Tis true, fir, againft the living, men may find out fomerobahle means of fecuring themfelves, but if fpirits departedfrere allowed, then no man would be fecure, for in that cafe,very man that they had a prejudice at, would foon be ruined,ij Ogil- Might you not go to the mines of Mexico and Reru,trhere thefe little fum* would not be miffed ?A Cool No, fir, fur the fame reafon.I Ogil. But Cool, fince there is fo much treafure lod in the fea,dou may eafily dive into the bottom of it, fearch that, and refund: jiefe people therr Ioffes, where no man is injured.Cool. You are a little too forward this night, fir, and inclines:;nch to banter, what I’ve faid might fatisfy you ; but fince itoes not. I’ll tell you further, that no fpirits, good or bad, haveiwer to tafc^ any money or gold ; the good never do, tho’ thehad if once in an age, it is no (mail quarrel, for if it were allowedliem, then they would be very fuccefsful in their bufmefs, andever fa}] 0f gaining their points.1 Ogil. What hinders them, Cool?j Cool- Superior powers that govern and guard all.1 Ogil. You have fatisfied me intirely upon that head, but pray,lool, what is the reafon that you cannot go to your wife yourfelfad tell her what you have a mind : that would be a more furcr’ay to gain your point. Cool. Becaul'e I will not.3 Ogil. That does not fignify to me, Cool.1 Cool. That is one of the queftions that I told you long ago,buld not be anfwered ; but if you go as delired, you dial 1 have(ill fatisradtion after you have done your bufinefs. Trufi; me forJce, and believe me, you fliall not be difappointed.( 16 )Upon the loth of April, 1724, coming from Old-Hermcs, ethe poll road, we again met together upon the head of the pcalled the Peale, he afked mein had confidered the matter herecommended ? 1 told him 1 had, and was in the fame opiniowhen we parted ; that 1 would not pcflibly undertake his cimiffions, unlefs he could give me them in writings under his h;,1 told him that the firft of his grievances were fo great, thcpuld not poffibly remember them without being in writing,that 1 wanted nothing but reafon to determine me in that, amotlier affairs of my life : 1 know, fays he, this is a mere evafbut tel! me if the laird of Thurfton will do it ! 1 am fure, fai:he will not, and if he (hould, 1 would do all that 1 could to binhim; for 1 think he has as little concern in thefe things as mylHut tell me, Cool, is it not as eafy to write your flory, as to telfior ride on what d’ye call him, fori have forgot your horft’s na|Cool. No fir, it is not, and perhaps 1 may convince you ofreafonablenefs of it afterwards.Ogil. 1 would be glad to hear a reafon that is folid forfpeaking to your wife yourfelf; but, however, any rational crture may fee what a fool 1 would make of myi'elf, if 1 would godumfries, and tell your wife that you had appeared to me, ;told fo many forgeries and vilianies that you had committed; ithat fhe behoved to make reparation: The event might perhapsthat fhe would fcold me, for fhe would be loth to part with smoney Ihe poffelTes, and therefore tell me 1 was mad, or poffipurfue me for calumny; How would 1 vindicate myfelf! howco1 prove that ever you fpoke with me ! Mr Paton and other mifters in dumfries would tell me, it was the devil had Ipoken wme, and why fliould 1 repeat thefe things for truth, which he twas a liar from the beginning, had told me! p I, and B.would be npon my top, and pui fue me before commiffaries, ievery body would look upon me as brain-fick or mad, theref1 intreat you, do not infill upon fending me a vain errand. 1,reafonablenefs of my demands, 1 leave to your own confideratbas you did your former to mine- But dropping thefe mattersour next interview', give me leave to enter upon fome moreverting fubjedt; and 1 do not know Cool, but the information yhave given, may do as much fervice to mankind, as the redrefsall thefe grievances would amount to.Mr Ogil vie died very foon after.1S.F INI