THE NEWA SELECTION OPIRISH BLUNDERS, RAPARTEES, ANECDOTES, &CCare to our coffin adds a nail no doubt,While every laugh so merry, thaws one out,GLASGOWPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,OF SCOTLANDANECDOTES.ENGLISHMAN AND HIGHLANDMAN.An English vessel passing up the Clyde,ell in with a Highland Sloop coming down,vhich the captain of the former hailed withi he usual salutation of li Sloop ahoy !” whenhe following conversation took place:—Captain. What’s your cargo ?Highlander. Penlomon.Cap. Where are you bound for ?High. Potatoes.Cap. What’s your Captain’s name ?High. Proomala.Cap. Where do you come from ?High. Yes ; it’s a fine poat.Cap. Will you take us on board ?High. Yesterday.DUKE OF BUCCLEUGH.Henry, Duke of Buccleugh, was greatlyoeloved by his numerous tenantry. One ofihem yclept Jamie Howie, had a son aboutfibur ears of age, who having heard much)f a great Duke of Buccleugh, was veryvinxious to see him. Honest Jamie, in a fewHays, being honoured with a visit from theDuke, doffed his bonnet, made a pro fountreferential bow, and said, ii O, my lordye maunna be angry wi’ me, but it’sHeeven’s truth, my lord, there’s a daft wccallant o’ mine that canna rest nor let ithej irest nicht nor day, he has ta’en in his hea |sic a notion o’ seein’ what like you are, gutsake, my lord; I dinna think he has on fyedeea ye are a man at a’, but some far-awioutlandish, ower-the sea creature.” T1Duke, mightily tickled with this fancjdesired Jamie to bring the youngster into hpresence forthwith. Out comes the juveniinquisitor with his finger in his mouth, ancautiously reconnoitres the personage befoihim. At last quoth the urchin, “ Cansoom ?” “No,his Grace, “ Imycannalittlefellow,”soom.”replit“ Canflee?” No, I canna flee.” “Well, maxfor as muckle’s ye’re, I wadna gi’e anema fayther’s dukes for ye; for they ca:baith soom an’ flee!”ON PARRITCJa worthy tradesm?PARAGRAPHOnce upon a time,who had his “wonn” in a certain populoii|:city “ i’ the wast,” was in the habbitnightly indulging a predilection for a coni,fortable lounge in an auction-room, whe:he managed to procure a fund of ease aramusement sufficient to dissipate the eftec Wi5of the dry details of the day. On one oc-ajeasion, while paying a tribute of more thanordinary attention to a string of elaborate' eulogia on the merits of some article of sale,idelivered by the eloquent lips of him of the(hammer, has ears were suddenly assailed byithe well known voice of his son, a boy of(five years of age, who had been charged withia message of special importance from theguidwife, to the frequenter of the nocturnaliphowff. u Fayther!” vociferated the uncere-imonious rascal, u yer parritch is ready!”Honest Thomas looked certain “unutterablethings,” as the eyes of a hundred individualswere simultaneously directed first to thequarter whence the salute proceeded, andthen to the subject of the address. Hecleared the mob in one step—bolted from thethreshold in another, and finished a thirdwith a smart application of a weighty tack-etted shoe to the astonished retreater’s seatof honour, while he grinned out, “Yedeevil’s Jawcobeet! the next time ye come1 wi’ sic an eerand, say a Gentleman’s waitin’‘( on me.” An opportunity soon occurred fora display of the urchin’s new-acquiredpolitesse;—two evenings afterwards he wasobserved popping in his antiquated phiz,and magnanimously bawling the intelligenceregarding the gentleman in waiting. HeI was answered with a complaisant “Veraivcel,” and a promise of immediate atten¬dance. A new turn in the business of thelounge, banished the circumstance from thei i * n_i* ii i itlwhich he did in a clearer, louder, and moreanxious tone than ever—true, withal, to thelate hint on etiquette— Fayther! If yedinna come quick, the Gentleman ’ll bequite cauld!Should be like three thing s; which threethings she should not be like.First.—She should be like a snail,always keep within her house:—but sheshould not be like a snail, to carry all shehas upon her back.Secondly.—She should be like an echo,speak when she is spoken to:—but she should cnot be like an echo, always to have the lastword.Thirdly.—She should be like a town-clock, always keep time and regularity :—but she should not be like a town-clock, to cspeak so loud that all the town may hearher.An Irish pastor, when applied to by oneof his flock for a shower of rain, said heA GOOD WIFEA WEATHER-MASTER.7! should be happy to oblige him, but he hadseveral previous applications for dry weather;and as it would be impossible for him to dis¬oblige any of his congregation, he was mi¬ller the necessity of declining to interfere.EPITAPH ON GABRIEL JOHN.Here lies the body of Gabriel JohnWho died in the year 1001.Pray for the sold of Gabriel John ;You may, if you please,Or let it alone ;For it’s all oneTo Gabriel John,Who died in the year 1001.A POWERFUL PREACHER.Ah, Sir!” exclaimed the elder in theone of pathetic recollection,—u our lateninister was the man ! He was a poorfu’ireacher; for i’ the short time he deliveredhe word amang us, he knock’d three pupits;o pieces, and dang the guts out o’ liveBibles.”EPITAPH.I, Sir John Trollop,Made these stones roll up;When God shall take my soul up,My body shall fill this hole up.8ENTRIES OF THE NAMES OF CUSTOMERS.The following1 entries of the names ofcustomers were found in the books of a gro¬cer, in a neighbouring city, on his insolven¬cy:—“ Woman on the Key. Jew Woman.Coal Woman. Old Coal Woman. FatCoal Woman. Market Woman. PaleWoman. A Man. Old Woman. LittleMilk Girl. Candle Man. Stable Man.Coachman. Big Woman. Lame Woman.Quiet Woman. (!!!) Egg Man. LittleBlack Girl. Old Watchman. Shoemaker.Little Shoemaker. Short Shoemaker. OldShoemaker. Little Girl. Jew Man. Mrsin the Cart. Old Irishwoman. Womanin Corn-street. A Lad. Man in theCountry. Long Sal. Woman with Long tSal. Mrs Irishwoman. Mrs Featherbon-net. Blue Bonnet. Green bonnet. GreenCoat. Blue Breeches. Big Breeches. TheWoman that was married. The Womanthat told me of the man.THE MINISTER AND HIS THREE SONS.jolly dame who kept the principal car¬avansary at Greenlaw, in Berwickshire, hadthe honour to receive under her roof a veryworthy clergyman, with three sons of the ;same profession, each having a cure of souls; ,be it said, in passing, none of the reverend9: laity were reckoned powerful in the pulpit.After dinner, the worthy senior, in the prideof nis heart, asked Mrs Buchan whether sheever had such a party in her house before.u Here sit I,” said he, £<a placed ministerof the kirk of Scotland, and here sit mythree sons, each a placed minister of thesame kirk.—Confess, Luckie Buchan, you(never had such a party in your house be-ifore.” The question was not premised bymny invitation to sit down and take a glassof wine or the like, so Mrs B. answereddryly, il Indeed sir, I cannot just say thatever I had such a party in my house before,' except once in the forty-five, when I had aHighland piper here, with his three sons,Iall Highland pipers; and de’il a springthey could play amang them.MATRIMONY.One of the towns’ officers of Ayr, wasstruck severly by accident on the head byhis wife.—After the fray was adjusted, theThe wife said to her husband, H , had 1killed you, and I been hanged for it, wouLyou marry Kate M{Laucldan.ARABIAN PROVERB.Let him that would be safe avoid seven)things:—wasps, spiders, hyaenas, crocodiles,cffs, adders, and fine women !10THE WICKEDEST MAN.A clergyman, who wished to know whetherthe children of the parishoners understoodtheir bibles, asked a lad that he one dayfound reading- the Old Testament, who wasthe wickedest man ? Moses, to be sure, saidthe boy.—Moses, exclaimed the parson, howcan that be ? Why, said the lad, becausehe broke all the commandments at once!NOT LOST BUT DROWNED.A Leith merchant being on his usual rideto the south, came to the ford of a dark river,at the side of which a boy was diverting him¬self. The traveller addressed him as follows:—u Is this water deep ?” “Ay, gaen deep,”answered the boy. “ Is there ever any per¬son lost here?” “No,” replied the boy,“ there was never any lost; there has beensome drowned, but we aye get them again.”THE RED NOSE.A West Indian, who had a remarkablyfiery nose, having fallen asleep in his chair,a negro boy who was in waiting, observeda musquitto hovering round his face. Quasieyed the insect very attentively, at last hesaw him alight on his master’s nose, andimmediately fly off. ( Ah! d n yourn11heart,’ exclaimed the negro, (me d'glad see you burn your foot.’THE DEVIL DEFINED.The. 'R everend Mr Shirra. burner ministerthe E from his name, he’s vil; tak the Vfrom his name he’s il.” Then, shruggingI up his shoulders, and lengthening his sanc¬tified snout, he said, with peculiar emphasis,“he’s naething but an il, vil, evil, Devil,ony way ye’ll tak him !”A gentleman having missed his way, for¬tunately overtook a boy going with a pot oftar to mark his master’s sheep, asked theroad to Banff, but was directed by so manyturnings, right and left, that he agreed totake the boy behind him on the horse, as hewas going near to the same place. Findingthe boy pert and docile, he gave him somei wholesome advice relative to his future con¬duct, adding occasionally, “Mark me well,my boy.”—“Yes, Sir, Ido.” He repeatedi the injunction so often, that the boy at last(j cried out, “ Sir, 1 have no more tar!”MARK ME WELL.12SCOTTISH ATMOSPHERE.An English Gentleman on a tour throughScotland, was unfortunately accompanied bywet weather most of the time. When hoset out from Glasgow to Greenock, thomorning was very fine; however, before hehad proceeded half way, he was overtakenby a heavy shower,. u Boy,” (says he to alittle fellow herding near the road side)“does it always rain in this country!”“ Na,” replied the boy, “ it sometimessnaws.”LIBERTY OF THE PRESS.A master tailor in Glasgow, lately read¬ing the News-papers to his family, and whenexpressing the title, Liberty of the Press inFrance, one of his daughters interrupted him,by asking what the Liberty of the Pressmeaned ? I’ll soon answer that question,”said he; “you know when your mother goesbut, and leaves the key in the cupboard door,where the bread, butter, and sugar lies, thenyou have access:—That’s the Liberty o’ thePress.RESTLESS HAGGIS.Daft Will Callender, lived with Ids sisterBabie, in Port-Glasgow: Babie kept a13lodging house for Sailors. On Saturdaynight Babie was making a Haggis, forSunday’s dinner, when one of her lodger’shut four ounceof quicksilver into the Haggis,unknown to Babie. On Sunday, Will wasJeft at home to cook the dinner; but whenthe pot began to boil, the Haggis would beout of the pot; Will faithful to his chargesheld the lid on the pot until his patience wasexhausted—at last Will ran off to the churchfor Babie; she sat on one of the back pews;Will beckoned to her two or three times, Babie, as often nodded and winked to Will to be quiet;1 at last he bawled out, u Babie come hame,I: for I believe the deil’s got into the Haggis,I it’ll no bide in the pat, it’s out dancing onI the floor, and if I had not locked the door,I think it would have been at the kirk as1 soon’s mysel.”THE KELLOCHSYDE GRACE.The following is preserved traditionallyas the grace of the farmer of Kellochsyde orKillocsyde, in Clydesdale:—O Lord, we’ray gangan, and we’r ay gettan. We soudjr ay be curnan to thee, but we’r ay forgettan.We leive in the glide mailen o’ Kellochsyde,suppan thy gude peisie kale, puir sinfou sonsof- that we are. Monie mercies we re-iceive, gude trowth: and we’r little thankfou14for them, giiae feth. Janet, rax by thespunes; and aw praise and glory sail bethine. Amen.PATRIMONY AND MATRIMONYAt an examination of a school in Edin¬burgh, a gentleman asked one of the scholarsby what name they called property thatdescended from a father? “Patrimony,”answered the scholar: and what do you callit, when descended from a mother? “Mat¬rimony,” was the reply.THE LIGHT GUINEA.An Irishman one day walking on thestreets of Glasgow, found a light guinea,and got 18s for it: next day he waswalking and sees another, Allelieu dearhoney, says he, I’ll have nothing to do withyou, for I lost 3s by your brother yesterday.ELDER’S HOURS.A cunning carle, invested with the cemi-sacred office of “ Riding Elder,’’ or practi¬cally seemingly indentified with that office,in order to gratify an inclination, scratched,wi’ the neb o’ a fork, the figure 10, on theone side of his outer door, and the figure 11,on the other. Bv which plan he wa^ ableI®K-1k-|J'.15to say wi’ u a good conscience,” at a’ times-and on a’ occasions, that he came ay hamtatween ten and eleven.THE THISTLE.A few Scotch and English travellers be¬ing met together, an Englishman took itupon him to run down the Thistle, exclaim¬ed against the empty boast of its motto;a Nemo me impune lacesset;” when aScotchman present observed, “ The Thistle,sir, is the pride of the Scottish nation, but iti is nothing in the mouth of an Ass.”SAGE INSTRUCTIONS.A labouring Highlandman, who lived in: the upper parts of Perthshire, whose wife was, taken in labour, wished him to retire out ofthe house. Janet says to him.—“ Qh !Syou be gang awa’, Duncan, gang awa’!”[ The man however kept loitering about thedoor, seemingly impressed with something ofgreat importance. At last he cries to hiswife, “You speak a me, Shanet! you speaka me!” The wife asks, “What you say,Duncan ?”—‘1 Gie the cummer (the midwife)ja dram, Shanet, gie the cummer a dram !’’i—“ What for Duncan ?” Gie the cummeria dram, Shanet am tell him to mak her a16DEATH OF A WATCH.After the battle of Falkirk, in 1746, aHighlandman was observed extracting agold watch from the fob of an Englishofficer who had been killed. His comradoviewed him with a greed}'- eye; which theman taking notice of said to him “ Tamnyou gapin’ creedy bitch, gang an’ shoot ashentieman for herseh, an’ no envie me o’my pit watch. Next morning finding hiswatch motionless, and meeting his comrade,says to him, u Och ! she no be care muckleabout a watch, an’ you be like mine whatwill you gie me for her ?” The other re¬plied, u I be venture a kinny.”—<£ Weel r-then,” said the other, “ Shust tak her, an’ !welcome, for she be die vester night.”LUMP OF OLD WOOD.An ag'ed man, named Thomas Wood,sitting on a high three footed stool in the ,gallery of the Old Church of F .kirk, dur-ing divine service, happened to fall asleep,tumbled on the floor with a great noise. ;The preacher stopped, and demanded thereason of the noise. <£ Nothing, Sir,” criesa wag, ££ But a lump of Old Wood fallendown.’ISCOTCH PARROT.A Parrot perched upon a pole at a cottagedoor, basking itself in the sun, was observedby a rapacious Hawk which happened to bepassing over it, and suddenly dived down,and seized poor Poll by the back, aw?y theHawk flew with his prey; when passing overthe garden, Polly observed his old friend theGardener, and exclaimed, I’m ridin’ noo,John Laurie: Hawky alarmed at hearing avoice so near, darted into a tree for safety,iwhen, after recovering a little, commencedto devour poor Poll, when it roared out withall its might, “will you bite you b The Hawk terrified out of its wits, flew olFwith a birr, leaving Poll to proceed home¬wards at pleasure.LONG CREDIT..Soon after the battle of Preston, twoHighlanders, in roaming through the southof Mid-Lothian, entered the farm-house ofSwanston, near the Pentland Hills, wherethey found no one at home but an oldwoman. They immediately proceeded tosearch the house, and soon finding a \yeb of1 coarse home-spun cloth, made no scruple toin unroll and cut off as much as they thoughtL ould make a coat to each. The womanISwas exceedingly incenced at their rapacity,roared and cried, and even had the hardihoodto invoke divine vengeance upon their heads.uYe villians!” she cried, “ye’ll ha’e toaccount for this yet!”—“And when willwe pe account for’t?” asked one of theHighlanders.—“ At the last day, ye black¬guards !” exclaimed the woman. “Ta lasttay!” replied the Highlander: “Tat pccood long credit—we’ll e’en pe tak a waistcoat too! ” at the same time cutting off afew additional yards of the cloth.A BRUSH FOR THE BARBER.A Highlander who sold brooms, went into a barber’s shop in Glasgow, a few dayssince to get shaved. The barber boughtone of his brooms, and after having shaved,him, asked the price of it; “ Twopence,”}tsaid the higldander; “No, no,” said thejibarber, “ I’ll give you a penny, if thatdoes not satisfy you, take your broom again.”The Highlander took it, and asked what hehad got to pay ? “A penny,” said Strap.“ I’ll gi’e ye a baubee,” said Duncan, “ anif that dinna satisfy ye, put on my beardlagain.HOW TO FIND WORK.A Slater being employed by a gentleman19’to repair his house in the country, tooKalong with him a Prentice: when they setto work, and continued to work for somedays, the gentleman having no conceptionthe job was to he of such duration, came outone morning, and found the apprentice atwork alone, when he expressed himself assurprised at the continuation of them workingso long, and enquired what had become ofhis master: to which the boy replied, “thathe’s awa to Glasgow to look for a Job, andif he got ane, this ane wrould be done themorn, and if he didna get ane, he didna kenwhen it would be done.”DONALD AND THE LAIRD.A Scottish Laird and his man, Donald,travelling southward : at the first English; inn, the room in where they were to sleep,containing a bed for the master and a trucklefor the man, which drew forth from beneaththe larger couch. Such furniture beingnew to the Highlanders, they mistook thefour posted pavilion for the two beds, andI the Laird mounted the tester, while the manoccupied the comfortable lodging below.Finding himself wretchedly cold in thenight, the Laird called to Donald to knowhow he was accommodated. “ Ne’er saeweel a’ my life,” quoth the gillv. Ha,m20man, exclaimed the Laird, (i If it was nafor the honour of the thing, I could find irmy heart to come down.”GRAVE-DIGGER OF SORN.The Grave-Digg-er of Sorn, Ayrshirewas as selfish and as mean a sinner as everhandled mattock, or carried mortcloth. Hewas a very quarrelous and discontented oldman, with a voice like the whistle of thewind thro’ a key hole. On a bleak Sundayafternoon in the country, an acquaintancefrom a neighbouring parish accosted himone day, and asked how the world wasmoving with him, u Oh, very puirly, sir,my puirly indeed,” was the answer, ii theyard has done naething ava for us this Sum¬mer, if ye like to believe me, I havna burieta leevin’ soul this sax weeks.”EXPENCE OF A WIFEAn old bachelor who lived in a verysconomical style, both as regards food andclothing, and not altogether so very trig as (some bachelors sometimes appear, was fre¬quently attacked by his acquaintances on :the propriety of taking a wife; he was very .smartly set upon one day, and told how ,snod a wife would keep him, and manyother fine things to induce him to take a.ifmjil)'jliflK'ftr21wife, and among tne rest, what a comfort itwould be to lira, if it was for nothing else,but to mak his puritch in the morning;says he, u I dinna doubt but she wad makmy puritch, put the plauge is, she wad befair to sup the half o’ them.”CHARITY.A person who resides in the ancient townof Killwinning, proverbial for his liberalityin meat and drink, to friends and acquain¬tances ; strangers too, seldom passed with¬out experiencing a due share of his kindness;lately while feasting nearly a dozen ofrandom visitors on u Pat Luck,” a beggarcalled at the door soliciting charity, when hevery good humouredly called out, u I cannahelp you the day, I hae plenty o’ your kinhere already.”DISTINCTION OF SONS AND DAUGHTERS.About the year thretty-sax, a companyliffered, u Whether it was better for a manto hae sons or daughters ?” They cou’dnegree, but disputed it pro and con. At last,one of them said to Graham of Kinross,(wha hadna yoked wi’ them in the argu¬ment,) “Laird, what’s your opinion?”Quo he, “ I had three lads and three lasses;I watna whilk o them 1 liked best sae langns they sucket their mither; hut de’il haemy share o’ the callants, when they came tosuck their father.”BIRD’S NEST.The mother of a respectable Grocer in atown in the west, called her son to her,while on her death-bed, and declared to liimthat his reputed father was not really hisfather; but that such a one (nameing him)really was his father; and that the deed wasdone one night while journeying fromGreenock, when at the Chin-Brae-Head;this story got wing, and ran through thetown like wildfire, and was a fine source ofamusement for some time. One day, a boyvulgarly named the u Linty,” went intothe said Grocer’s shop to purchase some ar¬ticle, when he was assailed with u Weel,”Linty, whar is tu gaun to big thy nest theyear?” The boy replied, u I was thinkin’to big it down about the Clun-Brae-head.”.I:tTHE GREAT WANT.A female pauper, lately made a verystrong and forcible appeal to the elders andheritors of a certain parish, for an advanceof 4s. 6d.—Some one of the grave quorumenquired what made her so urgent on tliisoccasion, when she had lately got a supply23»f coals, shoes, &c., to tliis she replied—u Why, deed sirs, it’s just to buy a pair o’corsets to my daughter Tibboc, ilk lassthat’s oeht respectable has them but hersel’,so ye see she canna do wan tin them, an’ yemaun e’en let me ha’t sirs.”! CAPTAIN SILK.In a party of ladies, on it being reportedI that a Captain Silk had arrived in town,I they exclaimed, with one exception, ‘ Whatia name for a soldier!’ ‘The fittest nameSin the world,’ replied a witty female, ‘ forSilk never can be Worsted!’MARCH OF INTELLECT.Two country carters, passing the entranceto the Arcade, Argyll street, Glasgow, ob¬served painted on the wall, “No l)ogs toenter here.” “No Dogs to enter here!”exclaimed one of them, “ I’m sure there’snae use for that there.” “ What way,Jock,” replied the other. “’Cause dogicanna read signs,” said he. “ Ha, ha,Jock, ye’re may be wrang, I’se warran yegentle folk’s dogs ’ill ken’t brawley, forthere’s schools, noo, whar they learn the! dumb baith to read an’ speak.”24HOW TO READ A SIGN-BOARD.A Highland Drover passing through acertain town, noticed a Sign-Doard above anentry, with the following inscription :Green Teas, Raw Sugars, Marmalades,Jellies, Capped Biscuits, and all sorts oiConfectionary Goods, sold down this entry,read it as follows :—Green Trees, Raw Sodgers, Mermaids, jJades, Scabbed Bitches, and all sorts ofConfusionary Goods, sold down this entry.ADDITIONA farmer’s Son, who had been some timeat the university, coming home to visit hisfather and mother; and being one nightwith the old folks at supper, on a couple offowls, he told them, that by the rules oflogic and arithmetic, he could prove these!two fowls to be three.—“Well, let us hear,”said the old man; u Why this,” said the:scholar, u is one, and this,” continued he,44is two, two and one, you know make three.”—44 Since ye hae made it out sae weel,’answered the old man, 44 your mother shall!hae the first fowl, I’ll hae the second, andlthe third you may keep to yoursell.”FINIS.