COMICAL SAYINGSWITH HIScoat finttoned behind.ciW^/c/ /tut,/, i)?2L' -J BEWO AN ELEOAM d^'FERt.VCE BETWEEN 'ENGLISH TOM AND IRISH TEAGUE;WITH PADDY'S CATECHISM,An4 bla Supplication when a Mountain Sailor.GLASGOW iPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELERS»»♦»»»21.^K0F SCOTLANDV^D/nbub^■fcKIjdlED JLOK IHE DOOESEFEK3‘ervgaoi/1Pl» e^ftlrr ^roir »jrcv a -Jtoavtttpi f&irsvM!1H J.VDOA.8 CVJLrCHI?^E4(iri2H iOH YiU) IH13II IE7C‘££i*rr®rvx c«v> E4->:>.of v: ■ .;•;;sr' \'f -..V ,iidirfdfcvpOA sB.il] r,i in'£OKk -n » .-e jCOMICAL SAYINGSOFPADDY FROM CORK.PART I.Tom. Good morrow, Sir, this is a very cold day.Teog. Ana, dear honey, yesternight was a very coldpiling.Tom. Weil brother traveller of what nation art thou '>! Teag. Arra dear shoy, I canie from my own kingdom,i Toip. Why, l knp\y that, hut lyhere is thy kingdom ri Tcqcj. A|ieiieu dear honey, don’t you know Cork int: eland.Tom. You fool, Cork t'ot a kingdom but a city.Tcptj. Then dear shoy. I’m sure il ls in a kingdom.Tom. And what is the reason you have come arid left1 uf own dear country ?Tear/. Arra dear honey, by shaint Patrick, they haveit such comical laws in our country, that they will putman to death hi perfect health; so to he free and plaintn you, neighbour, I was obliged to come away, fordid not choose to stay among such a people that canng a poof man when they please, if he either steals,bs, or kills a man.Tom. Ay, but I take you to be more of an hones 1Jan, than to steal, rob, or kill a man.! Tenn. Honest, I am perfectly honest, when I was butlichild, my mother wodld have trusted me with a house|U,of mill-stones.1 Tom. What was the matter, was you guilty of nothing.” Teag. Arra, dear honey, I did harm to nobody, buticied an old gentleman’s gun, and afterwards made iti’bwn. ™ •'tonatSmtimTom. Very well boy, and did you keep it so?Teat). Keep it, I would have kept itwithafl myhea^while I lived, death itself could not have parted us, bu»fhi old rogue, the gentleman, being a justice of peacfhimself, had me tried for the rights of it, and how I cari^iby it, and so took it again.Tom. And how did you clear yourself without punifljment? [fB .M3m>Hdaaa£W I lie viT//Teag. Arra dear shoy, I told him a parcel of lies,they would not believe me; for I said that I got it frot:my father when it was a little pistol, and I had kept rtill it had grown a gun, and was designed to use it wduntil it had grown a a big cannon, and then sell it to tfmilitary. They all fell a laughing at me as I had b<a fool, and bade me go home to my mother and clithe potatoes. vhhfiT ».»7 O' tkHmTom. How long is it since you left your own country!Teag. Arra, dear honey, I do not mind whether it b<a fortnight or four months, but I think myself, it islong time; they tell me my mother is dead since, butwont believe it until I get a letter from her own harufor she is a very good scholar, suppose she can neithetwrite nor read.Tom. Was you ever in England before ?Teag. Ay, that I was, and in Scotland too. MILTom. And were they kind to you when you was f 1Scotland ?Teag. They were that kind that they kick’t my amfor me, and the reason was because I would not pay thflwhole of the liquor that was drunk in the company,,though the landlord and his two sons got mouthful about)of it all, and I told them it was a trick upon travellen,!first to drink his liquor, and then to kick him out cdoors.Tom. I really think they have used you badly, butcould you not beat them ?Teag. That’s what I did, beat them all to their 0'contentment, but there was one of them stronger thanwho would have killed me, if the other two had notur owtjrjs'5e away, and I had to run for it, till his passion was7er, then they made us drink and gree again ; we shooklands, and made a bargain, never to harm other more ;: lit this bargain did not last long, for, as I was kissings mouth, by shaint Patrick, I bit his nose, whichnused him to beat me very sore for my pains,j Tom. Well Paddy, what calling was you when insotland.i Teag. Why sir, I was no business at all, but whati you call the green tree that’s like a whin bush,i i:ople makes a thing to sweep the house of it! ■1) Tom. 0 yes, Paddy, they call it the broom.! Teag. Ay, ay, you have it, I was a gentleman’s broom,lily waited on his horses, and washed the dishes for the;iok : and when my master rode a hunting, I went be-Snd with the dogs.'I Tom. 0 yes, Paddy, it was the groorn you mean.J|ut I fancy you was cook’s mate, or kitchen boy."t Teag. No, no, it was the broom that I was, and ifhad staid there till now, I might have been advancedhigh as my master, for the ladies loved me so well,at they laughed at me.Tom. They might admire you for a fool.Teag. What sir, do you imagine that I am not a fool Pii i, no, my master asked counsel of me in all his matters,id I always give him a reason for every thing: I toldm one morning, that he went too soon to the hunting,3 lat the hairs were not got out of their beds, and neitherae barking of horns, nor the blowing of dogs could makenem rise, it was such a cold morning that night; sofiey all ran away that we catched, when we did not:e them. Then my master told my words to severalI entlemen that were at dinner with him, and they ad-s lired me for want of judgment, for my head was all oflump: adding, they were going a-fishing along withiy master and me in the afternoon ; but I told themhat it was a very unhappy thing for any man to gohunting in the morning, and a fishing in the afternoon ;ilhey would try it, but they had better staid at home.for it came on a most terrible fine night of south west rain,and even down W'td; so the fishes got all below thewater to keep themselves dry from the shower, and wecatched them all but got none.Tom. How long did you serve that gentleman, Paddy.Ttiiy. An;a, deyr honey, I was with him six weekssand he beat me seven times.Torn,, For what did he beat you ? was it for yourmadness and foolish tricks ?7’em/. Dear shoy, it was not; but for being too in¬quisitive, and going sharply about business. First, hesent me to the post-office to enquire if there were anyletters for him ; so when I came there, said I, is thereany letters here for my master to-day ? Then theyasked who was my master ; sir, said I, it is very badmanners in yon to ask any gentleman’s name ; at thisthey laughed, mocking me, and said they could give menone, if I would not tell my master’s name ; so I re¬turned to my master and told him the impudence of thefellow, who would give me no letters unless I wouldtell him your name, master. Sly master at' this flewin a passion, and kicked me down stairs, saying, go yonrogue, and tel] my name directly, how can the gentle-mau give letters when lie knows not who is’ asking forthem. Then I returned and told my master’s name, sothey told me there was one for him. I looked at it,■ • - ii i i • . .1 _heing very smajl, ap'd asking the price of it, they toldme it was sixpence : sixpence, said I, will you takesixpence for that small thing, and selling bigger ones for*twopence ; faith I am no^ such a big fool; you think^to cheat me now, this is not a conseionahld way of deal¬ing, I’ll acquaint jny master with k first; so I cameand told my master "how they would have sixpence fdt'his letter, and was selling bigger onejf for twopence ; lietook up my head and broke his icrihe with it, calling mea thousand fools, saying, the man was more'just than tptake any thing hut the right for it; but I was sure therewas none of them right, buying and selling such dearpenny-wort hs. So I came again for my dear sixpence7jar j and as the fejUny was sliuffliug through a parcelhem., seeking fin; it ; gain, to in alee the best of a d^arXet, I pint i Vi two, nhd home I comes to niy master,living he would'he pleased with what I had done;>, said I, in aster. I tnjnR I have put a trick uponIn fellows, for selling tne letter to you. What have! done H I have only taken other two letters : here’sI for you master, to help your dear penny-worth, and[ i send* the other to my mother to see whether she bei d or alive, for she’s always angry I don’t write to.. I half not the word well spoken, till lie got upI stick and beat me heartily for it, and sent me hack.he fellows again with the two. I had a very ill willgo, hut nobody would buy them of me.Tom. Well, Paddy, I think yon was to blame, andIjir master too, for lie ought to have taught you howrgo about these affairs, and not beat you so.Tcay. Arra dear honey, I had too much wit of myl n to be teached by him, or any body else ; he beganinstruct me after that how I should serve the table,i 'il such nasty things as those : one night I took hen ai Isled fish in one hand, and a piece of bread in the; Ker; the old gentleman was so saucy he would not'ce it, and told me 1 should bring nothing to him witli-. t a trencher below it. The same night as he wasling to bed, lie called for bis slipdefs and pish-pot, soJapt a trencher below the pish-pot, and another below5 slippers, and hen I gops, one in every hand ; nomer did I enter the room than he threw the pish-potriie, which broke both riiy head and the pisli-pot ate blow ; how, said I, the devil is in my master alto-^ ther, for what lie commands at one time he counter-1 antis at another. KoXt day I went with him to the2 arket tobny a Sack of potatoes, 1 went to the potatoe-Idnger, and asked what lie took for the full of a Scot’s>g, he weighed them in, he asked no less than four-Ijtce ; fonrpence, said I, if I were but in Dublin, lmid got the double of that for nothing, and in Corkjlnd Linsale far cheaper ; them is but small things likepease, said I, but the potatoes in my cotmby is as big tyour head, fine meat, all made up in blessed mouthfulsthe potatoe-merchant called me a liar, and my mast*called me a fool, so the one fell a-kicking me, and thother a culling me, I was in such bad bread among themthat I called myself both a liar and a fool to get oalive.Tom. And how did you carry your potatoes home froithe market.Tea,(j. Arra dear shny, I carried the horse and the)both, besides a big loaf, and two bottles of wine ; forput the old horse on my back, and drove the potatoebefore me, and when I tied the lokd to the loaf, I ha«nothing to do but to carry the hottle in my hand : bubad luck to the way as I came home, for a nail out (•the heal of my foot sprung a leak in my brogue, whichpricked the very bone, bruised the skin, and made nrbrogue itself to blood, and I having no hammer by mebut a hatchet I left at home, I had to beat down thnail with the bottom of the bottle: and by the bookdear shoy, it broke to pieces, and scattered the wine hmy mouth.Tom: And how did you recompense your master fotthe loss of the bottle of wine ?Teag. Arra dear shoy, I had a mind to cheat himand myself too, for I took the bottle to a blacksmith,and desired him to mend it that I might go to the but¬cher and get it full of bloody water, but he told me hellcould not work in any thing but steel and iron. Arra>;said I, if I were in my own kingdom, I could get ablacksmith who would make a bottle out of a stone, anda stone out of nothing.Tom. And how did you trick your master out of it ?Teag. Why the old rogue began to chide me, asking;me what way I broke it, then I held up the other a*high as my head, and let it fall to the ground on a stone,!which broke it all in pieces likewise: now said I, mas¬ter, that’s the way, and he beat me veiw heartily untilI had to shout out mercy nhd murder all at once.f o badly,l Teag. Arra, dear ahoy, I could never think to leavai im while I could eat, he gave me so many good vic-i uals, and promised to prefer me to be his own bone-i idter. But by shaint Patrick, I had to run away' rith my life or all was done, else I had lost my dearj houl and body too by him, and then come home muchi oorer than I went away. The great big bitch dog,> rhich was my master’s best beloved, put his head intoti j pitcher, to lick out some milk, and when it was in he1 iquH not get it out; and I to save the pitcher got thea atchet and cut off the dog’s head, and then I had to* reak the pitcher to get out the head; by this I lostf Joth the dog and the pitcher. My master hearing of:his swore he would cut the head off me, for the poorsOg was made uieless, and could not see. to follow any; sody for want of his eyes. And when I heard of this,r, ran away with my own bead, for if I had wanted itnr had lost my eyes too, then I would not have seen thefuoad to Port Patrick, through Glen-nap; but by shaintrratrick I came home alive m spite of them.Tckw. O rarely done, Paddy, you behaved like aiiiaan ! but what is the reason that you Irish peopleii«vear always by saint Patrick ?«om ot mid fmieob> Teag. Arra dear honey, he was the best shaint inshe world, the father of all good people in the kingdom,• Ine has a great kindness for an Irishman, when he hearsi|hn calling on his nam^i s soisai bfiiow oilTom. But, Paddy, is saint Patrick yet alive ? s>« Teag. Arra dear honey, I dont know whether he beni.ead or alive, but it is a long time since they killed him;:he people all turned heathens, but he would not changeris profession, and was going to run the country with it,Iwid for taking the gospel away to England, so the: barbarous tones of Dublin cutted off his head ; and her; wimmed over to England, and earned his head in hiaiHeeth.10PART IITo/in. How, did you get sate out of Scotland ?, Teag. iJy the law dear honey, when I came to Po:tPatrick, and saw my own kingdom, I knew I was sk'eat home, but I was clean dead, and almost drowned bt -vith nil e, havingi one ei®of it, which was all ihacked with deals: and after tlujliad pulled up her tethttvstick, and laid her long hultciover her mane, they pulled up a long sheet, like tliteispair of blankets, to the riggeh of the house, and the Wwblew in tliat. which hade hi r gallop tip one hill anildown another, till I thought she would hate run to llrij 5world’s end.Tumi. Well Paddy, and where did you go when yoncame to Ireland again ?Teag. Aria dear honey, and where did I gO blit Umy own dear cousin, who was now become very rich bythe death of the old buck his father; who died but a few |!weeks before I went over, and the parish had to biliyliim out of pity, it did not cost him a farthing:Tom. And what entertainment did you get there ?Tmg. 0 my dear shoy, 1 was kindly used as ano’the;jgentleman, and would have staid there long enough, hliijiwhim a man is poor his friends think little of him: I toll1hiln I was going to see my brother Harry : Harry, sailte, Harry is dead; dead said I, and who killed him :Why, said he, death : Allelieu, dear honey, and whenid he kill him ? said I. In his bed, says he. Am iear honey, said I, if he had been upon Newry mourn ■tains with Ids brogues on, and his broad sevord by hii Ifide, all the death’s in Ireland had not have killed iiimiO that impudent fellow death, if he had let him alorutHl he died for want of butter milk and potatoes, I amsure he had lived all the days of his life.To/A. In ail your travels when abroad, did you neve; ifore I could get riding over the water; for Ipassengers more, leapt into a little young boabut four men dwelling in a little house, in tin11Jfli see none of your countrymen to inform you of whati happened at home concerning yonr relations ?Tmg. Arra, dear shoy, 1 saw none but Tom Jack,one day in the street; but when I came to him, it Wasnot him, but one just like him.Tom. On what account did you go a travelling ?'/bog. 'Why a recruiting sergeant listed me to be acaptain, arid after all advanced me no higher than aI soldier itself, but only he called me his dear countrymani recruit; for I did not know what the regiment wasI when I saw them. I thought they were all gentle-! men’s sons, and collegiontrs, when I saw a box like alibible upon their bellies; until I saw G for King Georgei; upon it, and li for God bless him: ho, ho, said 1, Iii shan’t be long here.Tom. 0 then Paddy you desei ted from them ?Teag. That’s what I did, and ran to the mountainsI like a buck, and ever since when I see any soldiers 1Iclose my eyes, lest they should look and know me.7b?/i. And what exploits did you when you was asoldier ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I killeu a man.Tom. And how did you do that ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, when he dropt his sword 1drew mine, and advaiiced boldly to him, and thencutted off his foot.Tom. U then what a big fool was you; for youought first to have cut off his head.Teag. Arra, dear shoy, his head was cutted off be¬fore I engaged him, else 1 bad not done it.Tom. (J then Paddy you acted like a fool: but youare not such a big fool us many take you to be, youmight pass for a philosopher.Teag. A fulusipher, my father was a fulusipher, be¬sides he was a man under great authority by law, con¬demning the just and clearing the guilty. Do you knowhow they call the horse’s mother?Tbm. Why they call her a mare.1*2Teatj. A mare, ay, very well minded, my father waaa more in Cork.Tom. And what riches was left you by the death cfyour mother ?Teag. A bad luck to her own bairen belly, for shelived in great plenty, and died in great poverty; devouredup all or she died but two hens, and a pockful of potatoes,a poor estate for an Irish gentleman, in faith.Tom. And what did you make of the hens, andpotatoes, did you sow them ?Teng. Arra, dear shoy, I sowed them in my belly,and sold the hens to a cadger.Tom. What business did your mother follow after ?Teag. Greatly in the merchant way.Tom. And what sort of goods did she deal in ?Teag. Dear honey, she went through the country and'old small fishes, onions and apples, bought hens andeggs and then hatched them herself. I remember of along-necked cock she had, of an oversea brood, thatstood on the midden and picked all the stars out of thenorth-west, so they were never so thick there since.Tom. Now Paddy, that’s a bull surpasses all: but isthere none of that cock’s offspring alive now.Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I don’t think there are, butit is a pity but they had, for they would fly with peopleabove the sea, which would put the use of ships out offashion, and nobody be drowned at all.Tom. Very well Paddy, but in all your travels didyou ever get a wife ?Teag. Ay, that’s what I did, and a wicked wife too,and my dear shoy, I can’t tell whether she is gone toPurgatory, or the parish of Pig-trantrum; for she toldme she should certainly die the first opportunity shecould get, as this present evil world was not worththe waiting on, so she would go and see what goodtilings is in the world to come; so when that old rovercalled the Fever came raging over the whole kingdom,she went away and died out of spite, leaving me nothingbut two motherless children.To/a. O but Paddy, you ought to have goat to adoctor, and got some pills and physic for her.Teag. By shaint Patrick, 1 had as good a pill of mjown as any doctor in the kingdom could give her.Tom. O you fool, that is not what I mean; youought to have brought the doctor to feel her pulse, andlet blood of her if he thought it needful.Teag. Yes that’s what I did, for I ran to the doctorwhenever she died, and sought something for a dead otdying woman; the old foolish devil was at his dinner,and began to ask me some dirty questions, wliich I an¬swered distinctly.Tom. And what did he ask Paddy ?Teag. Why, he asked me. How did my wife go to1 stool ? to which I answered, the same way that otheri people go to a chair: no, said he, that’s not what Imean, how does she purge ? Arra, Mr. Doctor, saidJ I, all the fire in Purgatory wont purge her clean; forshe has both a cold and stinking breath. Sir, said he,that is not what I ask you ; whether does she shit thickor thin ? Arra, Mr. Doctor, said I, it is sometimes sothick and hard, that you may take it in your hand, andcut it like a piece of cheese, or pudding, and at othertimes you may drink it, or sup it with a spoon. Atthis he flew into a most terrible rage, and kicked medown stairs, and would give me nothing to her, butcalled me a dirty vagabond for speaking of shit beforeladies.Tom. And in what good order did you bury your wifewhen she died.Teag. O my dear shoy she was buried in all mannerSof pomp, pride, and splendour: a fine coffin with cord*in it, and within the coffin along with herself, she got apair of new brogues, a penny candle, a good hard-headedold hammer, with an Irish sixpenny piece, to pay herpassage at the gate, and what more could she look for.Tom. I really think you gave her enough along withher, but you ought to have cried for her, if it was nomore but to be in th* fathion.14And why should I cry without sorrow ? wbet-fl two criers to cry all the way before her to keepher hi the fashion.Tom. And what do they cry before a dead Woman ?. Teag. Why they 'cry the common cry, or funeralhtfid rit that is used in bur Irish country./bin. And what manner of cry is that Paddy ?Teng. clear Toth, if you don’t know I'll tell ybii, whenmy person dies, there is a number of criers goes before,siiylftg. Luff, fuff, foil, allelfeii, dear honey, what ailetlitliee to die ! it was iiot For want of good bnHenniM andpotatoes.PA iff HI.Tom. WklL Paddy, and what diil yoii do when ymnwife died ?Tcuy. Hear honey, what would 1 do ? do you think 1was such a big fool as to die too, I am sure if I had Iwould not have got fair play when I am not so old yetas niy father was when lie died.7o7/i. No, Paddy, it is not that I mean, was yousorry, or did you weep for her ?'Terig. Weep for her, by shaint Patrick I would notweep, nor yet be sony, suppose my own mother and allthe women in Ireland had died seven years before I wasborn.Tom. What did you do with your children when sliedied PTong. Do you imagine I was such a big fool as burymy children alive along with a dead woman; Aria, dearhoney, we always commonly give nothing along with adead person, blit an old shirt, a winding sheet, a bighammer, with a long candle, and an Irish silver three¬penny piece ?Tom. Dear Paddy, and what do they make of allthese things ?Teag. Then Tom, since you are so inquisitive, youmust go ask the Priest.7b*». What did you make of your children Paddy t15Tmy. And what should I make of them, do youimagine that I should give them into the haimS fd thebutchers, as they had been a parcel of y&Oitg: hogs : byshaint Patrick I had more imnaturality in me, thnri toput them in an hospital as others do.Tom. No, I suppose you would leave them with yomfriends ?Tcay. Ay, ay, a poor man's friends is sometimes worse'<lian a protest enemy, the best friend I ever had in theVprld was my own pocket while my money lasted; buti left two habes between the priest’s door and the parish•'Jiurcli, because I thought it was a place of mefey, andthen set out for England in (juest of another fortune.Tbm. 1 fancy, Paddy, you caine off with what theycall a moon-shine flitting. r.Tetuj. You lie like a thief now, for I did not see sun,moon, nor stars, all the night then : for I set out fromCork at the dawn of night, and I had travelled twentymiles all hut twelve, before gloaming in the morning.Tom. And where did you go to take shipping ?Tm:j. Arra, dear honey, 1 came to a country villagecalled Dublin, as big a city as any market-town in allEngland, where 1 got myself aboard of a little youngboat, with a parcel of fellows, and a long leather bag.L supposed them to be tinklers, until I asked what theycarried in that leather sack ; trhey told me it was theEnglish mail they were goiiig over with ; then said I, isthe miliis so stant in Eiiglanrl, that they must send overtheir coni to Ireland to grind it, the comical cunningfellows persuaded me it was so: then I went down to alittle house below the water, hard by the rigg-back ofthe boat, and laid me down on their leather sack, whereI slept myself almost to death with hunger. And dearTom to tell you plainly when I waked I did not knowwhere 1 was, but thought I was dead and buried, for 1found nothing all round me but wooden walls and timberabove.Tom. And how did yf~ to yourself to knowwhere you was at last. *' • ' ' 46:,-g DO'}' V'n Ti'5'^WTbag. By the law, dear ahoy, I scratched my headb a hundred parts, and then set me down to think uponit, so I minded it was my wife that was dead and notme, and that 1 was alive in the young boat, with thefellows that carries over the English meal from the IrishmihtSiOg I iiolmoa ant ila iim ,‘>ic ?£■ ••Ibm. O then Paddy, I am sure you was glad whenyou found yourself alive ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I was very sure I was alive,but I did not think to live long, so 1 thought it wasbetter for me to steal and be hanged, than to live all mydays and die directly with hunger at last.Tom. Had you no meat nor money along with you ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I gave all the money to thecaptain of the house, or gudeman of the ship, to take memto the sea or over to England, and when I was like toeat my old brogues for want of victuals I drew myhanger and cut the lock of the leather sack to get a lickof their meal; but allelieu, dear shoy, I found neithermeal nor seeds, but a parcel of papers and letters—apoor morsel for a hungry man.Tom. 0 then paddy you laid down your honesty fornothing.Teag. Ay, ay, I was a great theif but got nothing tosteal.Tom. And how did you get victuals at last ?Ttag. Allelieu, dear honey, the thoughts of meat aaddrink, death and life, and every thing else was out ofmind, I had not a thought bnt one.Tom. And what was that Paddy ?Teag. To go down among the fishes and become awhale; then I would have lived at ease all my dap,having nothing to do but to drink salt water, and eatcaller oysters.Tom. What was you like to be drowned again PTeag. Ay, ay, drowned, as cleanly drowned as a fish,for the sea blew very loud, and the wind ran so high,that we were all cast safe on shore, aud not one of usdrowned at all.17Tom. Wh«re did yon go when yon came <m shore ? •Tong. Arra, dear honey, I was not able to go anywhere, you might cast a knot on my belly, I was sohollow in the middle, so I went into a gentleman’s houseand told him the bad fortune I had of being drownedbetween Ireland and the foot of his garden; where wecame all safe ashore. But all the comfort I got fromhim was a word of truth.Torh. And what was that Paddy ?Teag. Why he told me, if I had been a good boy athome, I needed not to have gone so far to push my for¬tune with an empty pocket; to which I answered, andwhat magnifies that, as long as I am a good workmanat no trade at all.Tom. I suppose, Paddy, the gentleman would makeyou dine with him ?Tcag. I really thought I was, when I saw themroasting and skinning so many black chickens which wasnothing but a few dead crows they were going to eat;ho, ho, said I, them is but dry meat at the best, of allthe fowls that flee, commend me to the wing of an ox:but all that came to my share was a piece of boiled her¬ring and a roasted potato*, that was the first bit of breadI ever eat in England.Tom. Well, Paddy, what business did you followafter in England when you was so poor.Teag. What sir, do you imagine I was poor when I• came over on such an honourable occasion as to list, and: bring myself to no preferment at all. As I was an able\ bodied man in the face, I thought to be made a brigadeer,a grandedeer, or a fuzeleer, or even one of them blewI gowns that holds the flerry stick to the bung-hole of theI big cannons, when they let them off, to fright away theFrench; I was as sure as no man alive ere I came fromCork, the least preferment I could get, was to be rid-d ing-master to a regiment of marines, or one of the Mack| horse itself. •Tom. And where in England was it you listed ?Teog. Arra, dear shoy, I was going through thatla -tflittle country village, the famous city of Chester, thestreets were very sore' by reason of* tfie harcTness of myfeet, and lameness, of my brogues, so I went but veryslowly across the streets, from port to port is a prettylong way, but I being weary thought nothin" of it; thenthe people came all crowding to me as F had been aworld’s wonder, or the wandering jew; for the rain blewin my face, and the wind wetted all my belly, whichcaused me t» turn the backside of my coat before, apdmy buttons behind, which was a good safegaurd to mvbody, and- the starvation of my naked body, for I had nota good shirt.Tan. I am sure then, Paddy, they would take yonfor a fool ?Teat/. No, no, sir, they admired me for my wisdom,for 1 always turned my buttons before, when the windblew behind, but I wondered how the people knew myname and where I came from : for every one told another,that was Paddy from Cork: I suppose they knew myface by seeing my name in the newspapers.Tom. Well, Paddy, what business did you follow in< hesier ?Tea//. To be sure I was not idle, working at nothingat all, till adecrniting scargeant came to town with twoor three fellows along' with him, one beating on a fiddle,and another playing on a drum, tossing their airs thro’the streets, as if they were going to be married. I sawthem courting none but young men ; so to bring myselfto no preferment at all, 1 listed for a soldier,—I was tonbig for a grandeueer.Tom. What listing money did you get, Paddy ?Tung. Ana, dear shoy, I got five thirteens and a pairof English brogues ; the guinea and the rest of the goldwas sent to London, to the King, my master, to buyme new shirts, a cockade, and common treating for myhat, they made me swear the malicious oath of devilrieagainst the King, the colours, and my captain, tellingme if ever I desert, and not run away, that I should bariiot, and (hen wbipt to death through the regiment-19Tom. No Paddy: if is first whipt and then shot yonmean.Tefiy. Arra,'dtar shoy, it is all one thing at last, hutt is best to be $hqt aod then >vhipt, 'the cleverest wayo die I’ll >varrant you.Tam. Now much pay did you get, Paddy ?Two, Do VQO hnow the little tall flit sPargeatit thatleed me' to be a somug ?I Tom. And how should I know them I never saw you, ■ i - . If ■'ool.ITvay. De.'tr shoy, you may know him whether youee him or nof, his fg.ce is all bored in holes with themall pox, nis nose is the colour of a lobster-toe, andis chin like a well waslien potaloo, he’s the biggest,ogue in our kingdom, you'll know him when you meetim againthe rogue heigh 1 me sixpence a day, kill or10 kill: and when I laul Sunday and Saturday bothlijogether, and all the days hi one day, I can’t make sinenny above livepenct1 of it.Tom. You should have kept an account, and askedjlrpur arrears once a month.Tectg. That’s what I did, but he reads a paternosterbut of his prayer hook, wherein all our names ate written:i !0 much for' a stop-hold to my gun, to bucklers, to aijibair of comical barn-hose, with leather buttons frrtin topflo toe ; and worst of all, he would have no less than ajenny a week, to a doctor; ami, paid I, I never hadi sore finger, nor yet a sick toe, all the days of my life,then what have I to do with the ’doctor, or the doctor:o do with me.Tom. And did he make you pay all these things ?!Teag. Ay, ay, pay and better pay : lie look me beforens captain, who made me pay all was in hts hook.Arra, master captain, said I, you are a comical sort ofi fellow now, you might as well make me pay for myroftin before I be dead, as to pay for a doctor before If do sick ; ‘ to which he answered in a passioh, sir, said lie,i I have seen nuny a better man buried without a coffin ;. sir, said I, then ril bave a coffin, die when T wilb.' i?90there be a# much wood in all the world, or I shall notbe buried at all. Then he called for the sergeant, say¬ing, you sir, go and buy that man’s coffin, and put it inthe store till he die, and stop sixpence a week of his payfor it: No, no, sir, said I, I’ll rather die without a coffin,and seek none when I’m dead, but if you are for clippinganother sixpence off my pay, keep it all to yourself, andI’ll swear all your oaths of agreement we had back again,and then seek soldiers where you will.Tom. 0 then Paddy, how did you end the matter ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, by the nights of shaint Patrickand help of my brogues, I both ended it, and mended it,for the next night before that, I gave them leg bail formy fidelity, and went about the country a fortune-teller,dumb and deaf as I was not.Tom. How old was you Paddy when you was a soldierlast ? ■!Teag. Arra, dear honey, I waa three doxen all buttwo, and it is only two years since, so I want only fourI ears of three dozen yet, and when I live six dozen more,’ll be older than I am. I’ll warrant you.Tom. O but Paddy, by your account, you are threedozen of years old already.Teag. O what for a big fool are you now Tom, whenyou count the years I lay sick; which time I count notime at all.A NEW CATECHISM, &c.Tom. Of all the opinions professed in religion tell menow, Paddy, of what profession art thou ?Tcag. Arra, dear shoy, my religion was too weightya matter to carry out of mine own country: I was afraidthat you English Presbyterians should pluck it away fromme.Tom. What, Paddy, was your religion such a loadthat you could not carry it along with you ?Teag. Yes, that it was, but I carried it always aboutwith me when at home my sweet cross uptm my dealbwart, bound to my dear bn! ton hole.I 21Tom, and what manner of worship did you performhy thafgnT^ffbD *’nBrn Jarii yud bn<5 03Tmg. Why I adored the cross, the pope, and thepriest, cursed Oliver as black as crow, and swears my¬self a cut throat against all Protestants and church ofEnglandinen. jj tyfin ym TtoTom. And what is the matter but you would be achurch of Englandman, or a Scotch Presbyterian your-| ftHjsiBMMnd bns uoy bib wod tybLscI rmu O .m-iXTeag. Because it is unnatural for an Irishman; buthad sliaint Patrick been a Presbyterian, I had been theIf same. nsilr -73^ i .iudi :?•*!:*• Hi*it* $: r«i ;=:Tom. And for what reason would you he a Presby-Iterian then, Paildy ?Tmg. Because they have liberty to eat flesh in lent,and every thing that’s fit for the belly.Tom. What, Paddy, are you such a lover of flesh that;i you would change your profession for it ?Teag. O yes, that’s what I would, I love flesh of allkinds, sheep’s beef, swine’s mutton, hare’s flesh, andhen’s venison; but our religion is one of the hungriest inall the world, ah! but it makes my teeth to weep, andmy belly to water, when I see the Scotch Presbyterians,and English churchmen, in time of lent, feeding upoubulls’ bastards, and sheep’s young children.(Tom. Why Paddy, do you say the bull is a fornicatorand gets bastards ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I never saw the cow and her! husband all the days of my life, nor before I was born,going to the church to be married, and what then cannis sons and daughters be but bastards ?iTom. What reward will yon get when you are dead,for punishing your belly so while you are alive ?Teag. By shaint Patrick I’ll live like a king whenPm dead, for I will neither pay for meat nor drink.Tom. What, Paddy, do you think that you are tocome alive again when you are dead ?Teag. O yes, we that are true Roman CatholicswtQ Kt* • long time after we are dead; when we diehi love with the Priests, and (he good people ot ourprofession.Tom. And what assurau< e can yonr priest give youof that ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, our priest is a great shaint,a good shoul, who can repeat a pater-no?ter and AveMaria, which will fright the very horned devil himself,and make him run for it, until he he like to fall andbreak his neck.Tom. And what does he give you when you are dyingthat makes you come' alive again fTe'ig. Why he writes a letter upon our tongues, seal¬ed with a wafer, gives its a sacrament in our mouth, witha pardon, and direction in our right hand, who to call forat'the ports of Purgatory.Tom. And what money design you to give the priestfor your pardon ?Teag. Dear shoy I wish I had first the money hewould fake for it, I would rather drink it myself, andthen give him both my bill and my honest word, payablein the' other world.i\»n. And' how then are you to get a passage to theother world, or who is to carry you there r1'Teag. 0 my dear shoy, Tom, you know nothing ofthe matter : for when 1 die, they will bury my body,flesh, blood, dirt, and bones, oidy my skin will be blownup full of wind and spirit, my dear shoal I mean; andthen I will be blown over to the other world on thewings of the wind ; and after that I’ll never be killed,hanged nor drowned, nor yet die in my bed, for whenany hits me a blow, my new body will play buff upon itbice a bladder.Toni. But what way will you go to the new world,or where is it ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, the priest knows where it isbut I do not, but the Pope of Home keeps the outer-port, shaint Patrick the inner-port, and gives us a direc-liou of the way to shaint Patrick’s palace, which stands23on the head of the Italian loch, where I'll hare no moreto do but chap at the gate.Tom, What is the need for chapping at the gate, i*!it not always open ?Teng. Dear shoy, you know little about it, for thereis none can enter but red hot Irishmen, for when I calllAllelieu, dear honey, shaint Patrick countenance yourown dear countryman if you will, then the gates will beopened directly for me, for he knows and loves an Irish-d1<Ws voice, as lie loves his own heart.Tom. And what entertainment will you get when youtare in ?Feng. 0 my dear, we are all kept there untill a generalIjreview, which is cofnmonly once in the week; and thenifwe are drawn up like as many young recruits, and alli the blackgaurd scoundrels is pict out of the ranks, and1 initio half of them is sent away to the Elysian tields, toiicufry the weeds froirr among the potatoes, the other halfpf them to the River sticks, to catch fishes for shaintPatricks table, and them that is owing the priests anylinoney is put in the black-hole, and then given to theijhands of a great black hitch of a devil, which is keepedybr a hangrhan, who whips them up and down the smokyiidungeon every morning for six months.Torn. Well Paddy, are you to do as much justice toi.'.i Protestant as a Papist?Todg. O my dear shoy, the most justice we are com-i manded to do a Protestant, is to whip and torment themhrmtil they confess themselves in the Rpmish faith ; andsithen cut their throats that they may die believers.Tom. What business do you follow after at present ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I am a mountain sailor andjjiay supplication is as follows.paddy’s humble petition, oh supplication.ioGood Christian people, behold me a man ! who has corn’du through a world of wonders, a hell full of hardships,itidangers by sea, and dangers by land, and yet I am alive;'you may see my hand crooked like a fowl’s foot, and34that ia no wonder at all considering my sufferings and■arrows. Oh! oh! oh! good people. I was a manin my time who had plenty of the gold, plenty of thesilver, plenty of the clothes, plenty of the butter, thebeer, beef, and biscuit. And now I have nothing:being taken by the Turks and relieved by the Spaniards,lay sixty-six days at the siege of Gibralter, and gotnothing to eat but sea wreck and raw mussels ; put te <sea for our safety, cast upon the Barbarian coast, among Ithe wicked Algerines, where we were taken and tied \with tugs and ladders, horse-locks, and cow-chains: jthen cut and castcate yard and testicle quite away, put jin your hand and feel how every female’s made smoothby the sheer bone, where nothing is to be seen but whatis natural. Then made our escape to the desart wild!wilderness of Arabia; where we lived among the wildasses, upon wind, sand, and sapless ling. Afterwardsput to sea in the hull of an old house, where we weretossed above and below the clouds, being driven throughthickets and groves by fierce, coarse, calm, and contrarywinds: at last, was cast upon Salisbury plains, where:our vessel was dashed to pieces against a cabbage stock, jAnd now my humble petition to you, good ChristiaE ipeople is, for one hundred of your beef, one hundred otyour butter, another of your cheese, a cask of your bis¬cuit, a tun of your beer, a keg of your rum, with a pipsof your wine, a lump of your gold, a piece of your silver,:a few of your half-pence or farthings, a waught of youibutter-milk, a pair of your old breeches, stockings, elshoe*, even a chaw of tobacco for charity’s sake.