NEW AND IMPROVE D SERIES.No. 87.THE LIFEOPROBERT BURNS,THE AYRSHIRE BARD;WITH ANESSAY OX HIS CHARACTER AXD WRITIXGS.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1852.Price One Penny.-LIFE OF ROBERT BURNS.Robert Burns was born on the 25 th of January,1759, in a cottage about two miles south fromAyr, not far from the Kirk of Alloway and the“Auld Brig of Doom” His father, WilliamBurns or Burness, married Agnes Brown in De¬cember, 1757, and the poet was their first born.William Burns was a man of great integrity,and of strictly religious principles, and is beauti¬fully painted by the poet as “ the saint, the father,and the husband,” in the Cottar’s SaturdayNight. Agnes Brown, the wife of this goodman, was a woman of great prudence and saga¬city, and is said to have had a considerable resem¬blance in features to her celebrated son. Shepossessed a great store of ballads and traditionarytales, which no doubt nourished the imaginationof the young poet. With all the economy andhard labour of this worthy pair, things did notturn out well, and William Burns removed tothe Farm of Mount Oliphant, in the parish ofAyr, on Whitsunday 1766, when Robert wasabout seven years old. Here, from the soil being4I.IFE OF ROBERT BURNS.of the worst description, and other causes, he wasi glad to give up the bargain at the end of sixi years. He then removed to a better farm, thatof Lochlea, in the parish of Tarbolton, where an¬other train of misfortunes overtook him; and adispute about the lease, which had been referredto arbitration, resulted in his ruin. He lived toknow of the decision, but death saved him fromwitnessing its consequences. He died of consump¬tion on the 13th of February, 1784, Eobert, andGilbert his next brother, attended school together.Their teacher, speaking of them, says, “Eobert andGilbert were generally at the upper end of theclass, even when ranged with boys by far theirseniors, Gilbert always appeared to me to pos¬sess a more lively imagination, and to be moreof the wit than Eobert. I attempted to teachthem a little church music. Here they were leftfar behind by all the rest of the school. Eobert’sear, in particular, was remarkably dull, and hisvoice untuneable It was long before I could getthem to distinguish one tune from another.”“ The two first books,” says the poet himself, in1787, “I ever read in private, and which gaveme more pleasure than any two books I ever readsince, were the Life of Hannibal, and tlje Historyof Sir William Wallace. Hannibal gave myyoung ideas such a turn, that I used to strut inLIKE OF ROBERT BURNS/ 5raptures up and down after the recruiting drumand bagpipe, and wish myself tall enough to bea soldier; while the story of Wallace poured a tideof Scottish prejudice into my veins, which willboil there till the floodgates of life shut in eter¬nal rest.”When they had been about two years at MountOliphant, their schoolmaster left the country.“ There being no school near us,” says GilbertBurns, “and our little services being alreadyuseful on the farm, my father undertook to teachus arithmetic in the winter evenings by candle¬light,—and in this way my two elder sisters gotall the education they ever received.” WhenBurns was about thirteen or fourteen years old,he was sent, with his brother Gilbert, week about,during a summer quarter, to the parish school ofDalrymple, two miles distant, their father beingunable to pay two fees, or spare them both at oncefrom the labours of the farm. “ We lived verypoorly,” says the poet; “I was a dexterousploughman for my age : and the next eldestto me was brother Gilbert, who could drive theplough very well, and help me to thrash thecorn. A novel-writer might perhaps haveviewed these scenes with some satisfaction, butso did not I. My indignation yet boils at therecollection of the scoundrel factor’s insolent let-6LIFE OF ROBERT BORNS.ters, which used to set us all in tears.” “ Tothe huffetings of misfortune,” says Gilbert, “ wecould only oppose hard labour, and the mostrigid economy. We lived very sparingly. Idoubt not but the hard labour and sorrow of thisperiod of life was, in a great measure, the causeof that depression of spirits with which Robertwas so often afflicted through his whole life after¬wards.”About a year after this period, their old school¬master, Mr. Murdoch, having established himselfin the town of Ayr, Robert for some time att endedhim there, and learned a little English gram¬mar, Latin, and French. In the meantime, heread with great avidity every book chance threwin his way. The removal of the family to Loch-lea took place when Burns was in his sixteenthyear; a little before which period, according tohis own account, he “ first committed the sin ofrhyme.” In one of his epistles he says :—“ I mind it weel, in early date,When I was beardless, young, and blate—•E’er then a wish, I mind its power,A wish that to my latest hourShall strongly heave my breast:That I, for poor auld Scotland’s sake,Some useful plan or book could make.”LIFE OF ROBERT BURNS.While at Lochlea, Robert and his brother wereemployed by their father, and received £7 a-yeareach. Robert was remarkable for his personalstrength, and worked very hard at all the tasksof the farm. “In my seventeenth year,” he says,“To give my manners a brush, I went to a coun¬try dancing-school;” and afterwards, “At theplough, scythe, or reap-hook, I feared no com¬petitor, and thus I set want at defiance; and asI never cared farther for my labour than while Iwas in actual exercise, I spent my evenings inthe way after my own heart. A country lad sel¬dom carries on a love adventure without an as¬sisting confidant. I possessed a curiosity, zeal,and intrepid dexterity, that recommended me asa proper second on these occasions, and I daresay I felt as much pleasure in being in the secretof half the loves in the parish of Tarbolton, asever did statesman in knowing the intrigues ofhalf the courts of Europe.” While thus occupied,a number of his pieces were composed, chieflythose which relate to love, a passion of whichBums was extremely susceptible. A part of hisnineteenth year was spent at Kirkoswald, whitherhe had gone to learn mensuration, geometry,&c. Kirkoswald, which lies on the sea coast, wasat that time a great resort of smugglers, andBurns did not escape some contamination from8 LIFE OF ROBERT BURNS.the society he mingled in there. His brothersays he observed from that period a change inhis habits.“About this time,” says Gilbert, “he and Ihad for some years taken land of our father, forthe purpose of raising flax on our own account;and in the course of selling it Robert began tothink of turning flax-dresser, both as being suit¬able to his grand view of settling in life, and assubservient to the flax-dressing.” Bums, ac¬cordingly, in pursuance of this resolution, wentto a relation of his mother’s, a flax-dresser in Ir¬vine, with the view of learning this trade, and fora time applied himself with great diligence. Buton a new year’s morning the shop caught fire,and W’as totally consumed, and he was left, inhis own words, “like a true poet, not worth asixpence.” Three days before this unfortunatefire took place, he addressed a letter to his father,which contained much good sense and pious re¬flection. Among other things, he says, “I ammore pleased with the 15th, 16th, and 17thverses of the seventh chapter of Revelations, thanwith any ten times as many verses in the wholeBible, and would not exchange the noble en¬thusiasm with which they inspire me, for all thatthis world has to offer.”About three months before the death of WilliamLife of Robert burns.IBurns, Robert and Gilbert, 'who had tor some¬time foreseen the storm that was thickening roundtheir father’s dwelling, came to the resolution oftaking the farm of Mossgiel, in the neighbouringparish of Mauchline, with the view of providingthe family with a shelter. It was stocked withtheir joint property and savings, but notwith¬standing all their exertions, they could make littleout of it. It was during their residence at Moss¬giel, which continued four years, that Burnscomposed some of his most celebrated pieces.Among these were, The Holy Tuilzie, or TwaHerds; Holy Willie’s Prayer; the Epistle toDavie; Death and Doctor Hornbook; the versesto the Mouse and Mountain Daisy; the Cottar’sSaturday Night, &c.Perceiving that the farm at Mossgiel would atbest furnish no more than the bare means of sub¬sistence to so large a family, he came to the re¬solution of trying his fortune in the West Indies;and, through the influence of a friend in Irvine,procured a situation as assistant overseer on aplantation in Jamaica. To defray his outfit, andother expenses, he was advised to publish hispoems. An edition was accordingly printed atKilmarnock, of 600 copies, and the poet, afterpaying all expenses, cleared about £20. He hadtaken farewell of his friends^ and was about to10LIFE OF ROBERT BURNS.sail from Greenock, when a letter from Df.Blacklock of Edinburgh^ overthrew his schemes.A copy of the poems was sent to this gentle¬man, who pronounced a most flattering opinionof them, and advised that a second and moreperfect edition should be immediately printed.“ This encouragement,” says Bums, “ fired meso much, that away I posted to Edinburgh, with¬out a single acquaintance, or a single letter ofintroduction. The baneful star that had so longshed its blasting influence on my zenith, for oncemade a revolution to the nadir; and a kind Pro¬vidence placed me under the patronage of one ofthe noblest of men, the Earl of Gleitcaim.”Burns arrived in Edinburgh towards the latterend of November, 1786, and was introduced byDr. Blacklock to the most eminent men of the day.It was arranged that this edition should come outunder the auspices of Mr Creech, then the first ofthe metropolitan booksellers; and Mr. HenryMackenzie kindly recommended the work to thepublic, in an article in The Lounger, a celebratedperiodical of the day. The Caledonian.Hrmt,(an association of the chiefs of the northern aris¬tocracy,) consented to accept the dedication ofthe forthcoming edition, and to subscribe indivi¬dually for copies.Or fhe 6th May, 1787, after spending aboutLIFE OF ROBERT BURNS.11sis months in the capital, Burns departed fromEdinburgh, in company with a friend, on a coun¬try excursion before he should return to Ayrshire.His route was southward, and in the course ofhis journey he visited several families of distinc¬tion. On the 8th of July, he returned to Mauch-line, where he remained a few days, and afterwardsmade a tour through the north. In this excursionhe was received with much cordiality at the housesof many eminent persons—among whom were thenoble family of Argyle. After another visit tohis family at Mossgiel, he repaired, in March,1788, to Dalswinton, in Dumfriesshire, the resi¬dence of Mr. Miller, with whom he was in treatyfor the lease of a farm on his estate. Duringpart of the intervening months, he had beenoccasionally in Edinburgh, as he says, to adjustmatters with his bookseller. After a good deal oflost time, his affairs came at last to assume some¬thing like a definite shape. The. settlement ofaccounts with the bookseller put him in posses¬sion of £500 or £600, and the terms of agree¬ment at Dalswinton being finally arranged, heleft Edinburgh for his new possession, carry ingwith him an excise commission, which he had pro¬cured through the friendship of Mr. Graham ofFintry.At Whitsunday, 1788, Burns entered upon hi*12LIFE OF HOBERT BURNS.new farm, and in the following November broughthome Jean Armour, whom he had married sometime previously, and for a while matters went onpretty smoothly. In several of his letters hespeaks with much affection of his wife, and ofher admirable qualities. Many of his best pieceswere composed here ; and the poet at last seemedto be in a fair way of doing well. But thevehemence of his temperament, the keenness ofhis sensibility, and a constitutional melancholyto which he had through life been subject, wereoften to him the source df uneasiness and disquiet.fl The fate and characters of the rhyming tribe,”writes the poet, “often employ my thoughtswhen I am disposed to be melancholy. Thereis not among all the maftyrologies that everwere penned, so rueful a narrative as the lives ofthe poets. In the comparative view of wrretches,the criterion is not what they are doomedto suffer, but how they are formed to bear.Take a being of our kind, give him a strongerimagination and a more delicate sensibility, whichbetween them will ever engender a more ungo¬vernable set of passions than are the usual lot ofman; implant in him an irresistible impulse tosome idle vagary, such as arranging wild-flowersin fantastic nosegays, tracing the grasshopper tohis haunt by his chirping song, w'atching theLIFE OF ROHERT BORNS.13frisks of the little minnows in the sunny pool, orhunting after the intrigues of butterflies—inshort, send him adrift after some pursuit whichshall eternally mislead him from the paths oflucre, and yet curse him with a keener relish thanany man living for the pleasures that lucre canpurchase; lastly, fill up the measure of his woesby bestowing on him a spurning sense of his owndignity, and you have created a wight nearly asmiserable as a poet.” In these short sentencesBurns has traced his own character far better thanany one has done it since.The affairs of the farm did not long continueto thrive, and, perceiving them going backwards,Bums resolved to enter upon the duties of theExcise. He was accordingly appointed to the dis¬trict where his own farm was situated. Duringhis residence here, he regularly attended church,and assisted in forming a reading club. He alsopaid particular attention to the education of hischildren, and assisted them greatly himself. After¬wards, however, on the failure of his farming pro¬jects, the gloom which preyed on his spirits madehim too often not unwilling to become the com¬panion of the thoughtless and the dissipated; butnotwithstanding these follies, he was never de¬serted by that feeling of honour and independenceof spirit which led him always to detest whatever14 LIFE OF EOBEUT BURNS.was mean or base; and none could condemnmore severely, or feel deeper compunction andrepentance for his errors, than he did himself.About this time he got embroiled with theExcise, on account of some rash expressions heuttered on political matters, but the interest of hisfriends at the head of the Excise saved him. Ilisindiscretion, however, was remembered for a time,and caused him much uneasiness. He wras alsoin the habit of indulging in jests on his newprofession without much circumspection, but thesewere comparatively harmless. On one occasion,referring; to the discreditable nature of his em-ploy, he said, “1 have the same consolation, how¬ever, which I once heard a recruiting sergeantgive to his auditors on one of the streets ofKilmarnock,—‘ Gentlemen,’said he,‘I can as¬sure you, for your further encouragement, thatours is the most blackguard corps under thecrown, consequently an honest man has the bet¬ter chance of promotion.’ ”The concluding and most mournful part of oursketch must necessarily be brief. After continu-inc to hold the farm for some time after enteringon his new duties, he came to the resolution ofabandoning Ellisland, and betaking himself al-together to the revenue. His salary was ad-<1 *vanced to £70; and although his time was aLIFE OF KOBERT BURNS. ]5good deal broken in upon, he discharged hisduties with faithfulness and accuracy. Towardsthe close of 1790 he was employed as acting su¬pervisor. During part of that year his youngestchild lingered through an illness, of which everyweek promised to be the last, and when she wasin the end cut off, the nerves of the poet, whohad unceasingly watched her with the fondestsolicitude, were entirely shattered. A coldwhich he subsequently caught, completed themeasure of his ill health, and from this periodmay be dated the commencement of that gradualdecay which terminated in his death. Of thisapproaching event he •was perfectly sensible, andmany of his letters at this time breathe the ten-derest strains of resignation and piety. One ofthese is as follows:—“Are you deep in the language of consolation ?I have exhausted in reflection every topic of com¬fort. A heart at ease would have been charmedwith my sentiments and reasonings; but as tomyself, I was like Judas Iscariot preaching thegospel; he might melt and mould the hearts ofthose around him, but his own kept its native in¬corrigibility.—Still there are two great pillarsthat bear us up, amid the wreck of misfortuneand misery. The ONE is composed of the differ¬ent modiffcations of a certain noble, stubborn16 LIFE OF ROBERT BURNS.something in man, known by the names of cour¬age, fortitude, magnanimity. The other ismade up of those feelings and sentiments, which,however the sceptic tnay deny, or the enthusiastdisfigure them, are yet, I am convinced, originaland component parts of the human soul; thosesenses of the mind, if I may be allowed the ex¬pression, which connect us with, and link us tothose awful obscure realities—an all powerful andequally beneficent God—and a world to come,beyond death and the grave. The first gives thenerve of combat, while a ray of hope beams onthe field;—the last pours the balm of comfort in¬to the wounds which time can never cure.“ I do not remember, my dear Cunningham,that you and I ever talked on the subject of re¬ligion at all. I know some who laugh at it, asthe trick of the crafty few, to lead the undis¬cerning many ; or at most as an uncertain ob¬scurity, which mankind can never know anythingof, and with which they are fools if they givethemselves much to do. Nor would I quarrelwith a man for his irreligion, any more than Iwould for his want of a musical ear. I wouldregret that he was shut out from what, to meaild to others, were such superlative sources ofenjoyment. It is in this point of view, and forthis reason, that I will deeply imbue the mind ofLIFE OF ROBERT BURNS.17every child of mine with religion. If my sonshould happen to be a man of feeling, sentiment,and taste, I shall thus add largely to his enjoy¬ments. Let me flatter myself that this sweetlittle fellow who is just now running about mydesk, will be a man of a melting, ardent, glow¬ing heart, and an imagination delighted withthe painter, and rapt with the poet. Let mefigure him, wandering out in a sweet evening,to inhale the balmy gales, and enjoy the glowingluxuriance of the spring; himself the while inthe blooming youth of life. He looks abroad onall nature, and through nature up to nature’sGod. His soul, by swift, delighted degrees, israpt above this sublunary sphere, until, he can besilent no longer, and bursts out into the gloriousenthusiasm of Thomson,‘ These, as they change, Almighty Father, theseAre but the varied God.—The rolling yearIs full of thee ; ’and so on, in all the spirit and ardour of thatcharming hymn.—These are no ideal pleasures;they are real delights; and I ask what of the de¬lights among the sons of men are superior, not tosay, equal to them ? And they have this precious,vast addition, that conscious virtue stamps themfor her own ; and lays hold on them to bring her-18LIFE OF ROBERT BURNS.self into the presence of a witnessing, j udging,and approving God.”Alluding one day to his expected dissolution,he said, he was well aware that his death wouldoccasion some noise, and that every scrap of hiswriting would be revived against him to the in¬jury of his future reputation; that letters andverses written with unguarded, and improperfreedom, and which he earnestly wished to haveburied in oblivion, would be handed about by idlevanity or malevolence, when no dread of his re¬sentment would restrain them, or prevent the cen¬sures of shrill-tongued malice, or the insidioussarcasms of envy from pouring forth all theirvenom to blast his fame.From a village on the coast, where he hadgone for the benefit of sea-bathing, he returnedto Dumfries, the place of Ins residence, on the18th of July, 1796, with his constitution fastwear-ing out. In the words of one of the inhabitants,“Dumfries waslike a besieged place. Itwasknownhe was dying, and the anxiety, not of the richand the learned only, but of the mechanics andpeasants, exceeded all belief. Wherever two orthree people stood together, their talk was ofBurns, and of him alone. They spoke of hishistory—of his person—of his works—of his fam¬ily—of his fame—and of his untimely and ap-LIFE OF ROBERT BURNS.19preaching fate, with a warmth and an enthusiasmwhich will ever endear Dumfries to my remem¬brance.”When approaching his last hour, says one ofhis biographers, on the authority of the physicianwho attended him, “a tremor pervaded his frame,his tongue wras parched, and his mind sunk intodelirium wdien not roused by conversation. Onthe second and third day the fever increased, andhis strength diminished.” On the fourth day,July 21, 1796, Robert Burns died.On the 25th, the remains of the poet were re¬moved to the Trades’ Hall, where they lay instate till morning, and next day were interredwith military honours, attended by a processionof the chief persons in the town and neighbour¬hood, and many from great distances. “Themultitude,” says an eye-witness who accompaniedBurns to the grave, “went step by step with thechief mourners. They might amount to ten ortw elve thousand. Not a word was heard. It wasan impressive and mournful sight to see men ofall ranks, and persuasions, and opinions, ming¬ling as brothers, and stepping side by side downthe streets of Dumfries with the remains of himwho had sung of their loves and joys, and do¬mestic endearments, with a truth and a tendernesswhich none perhaps have since equalled.—I found20LIFE OF ROBERT BORNS.myself at the brink of the poet’s grave. Theearth was heaped up, the green sod laid over him,and the multitude stood gazing on the grave forsome minutes’ space, and then melted silentlyaway.”A costly mausoleum has since been erected tothe memory of the poet, on the highest point ofground in the church yard, and thither his remainswere solemnly transferred on 5th June, 1815.It can hardly be questioned, that many menhave been more distinguished for propriety ofconduct and purity of life, than the subject of theforegoing history ; but in magnitude of intellector benevolence of heart, few have surpassed him,and there is perhaps no writer, either of the pastor present age, whose writings have been morefrequently perused than those of the AyrshireBard. The most prominent feature in Burns’character, was his love of independence. Althoughhe was a poor ploughboy, he had the courage tobattle for the nobility of his nature, and when inthe company of the worldly great, he felt himselftheir equal, if not their superior in many respects;and bore himself with a dignity of deportmentthat was astonishing. He perhaps paid too littledeference to the opinions of the world,—he saidlife of Robert burns.21whatever he felt, and his remarks often touched 'sharply on religion. Although he loved to startdoubts on this subject, when in the company ofthe grave and the pious, he was not irreligious.He said on one occasion, that “an irreligious poetwas a monster;” and he felt what he expressed.He was not however faultless, for in his writings,there sometimes appear allusions to scripture,which tend to w eaken our reverence for sacredthings. Yet wdio can deny that he has utteredsentiments respecting religion, so eloquent andsublime, that no one w ho had not himself experi¬enced their power, could possibly have pennedthem ? He loved to instruct his children in theirduty to God and man, and though he sometimesspoke in such a way as caused him to be regardedas a free-thinker or a deist, he latterly lamentedhis doubts of the truths of Scripture, and, let ushope, he found them to be his consolation at last.Burns was gifted by nature with high mentalpowers, and it is evident in many of his writings,that he believed himself defrauded of the stationdestined for him in society. To this sentimentwe are indebted for the noble lyric, “A man’s aman for a’ that.” Bums, as a poet, stands in thefirst rank. Though bom in humble circum¬stances, and nurtured in poverty, he possessedsuch powers of understanding, as fitted him for22LIFE OF ROBERT BURNS.any stucty or profession to which he might applyhimself. Without any borrowed style, histhoughts were new, and his language his own.Neither in high station nor in history, did heseek matter for his muse. His topics were na¬tural, simple, and familiar to all. The “ Daisy”grew on the farm he ploughed, and the “Mouse”had her nest on his own field. The “ Haggis”smoked on his own board, and the “ScotchDrink,” of which he sang, was distilled on thebanks of Doon. The “Twa Dogs” that con¬versed so wittily, were his own collies, and “ Tamo’Shan ter,” was one of his own merry acquaint¬ances. Burns was the first of our poets whojoined sublimity to simplicity, and found loveli¬ness and elegance among the cottages of his ownnative land. In expression he is never weak,never vulgar, and seldom coarse. His languageis familiar, but dignified—careless, but concise;and he touches the most ordinary themes with rareskill and good taste. Of his poetry, the descrip¬tive pieces are considered the most valuable, for,besides possessing the charater of nationality, theycombine the excellencies which belong to his othercompositions. His songs may be classed into fourkinds,—the amatory, the heroic, the satirical, andthe bacchanalian. His love songs, however, arethe most numerous, and are copied from nature.I.IFE OF ROBERT BURNS.23The heroic are also of a high order, and thoughthe satirical are inferior to the poems of the samedescription, they are not unworthy of his variedtalents. His bacchanalian songs are very few innumber, and this is matter of surprise. He didnot write above half-a-dozen in all, and those re¬flect the highest credit on the writer, though theypossess the fault which, however, is inherent inthe subject itself, of decorating the vice of ine¬briety in false colours. From the short remarksour limited space allows us to make, it will be seen,that although the Ayrshire ploughman did not com¬pose any piece which can be compared with Mil¬ton’s Paradise Lost, or the PEneid of Virgil, hepossessed genius of the very highest order, and hadhe been placed in more favorable circumstances,there is every reason to believe he would have pro¬duced a poem which might rank with any that hasyet appeared. We are aware that some would-be-critics, have charged Burns with plagiarism, be¬cause they have, after a great deal of labour, dis¬covered some thought which had been expressedby some former writer. We think, however,that originality consists not only in the expres¬sion of ideas which were never before embodiedin language, but in pouring them out with aneloquence that “speaks from the heart to theheart.” Of the prose composition of Bums, con-LIFE OF ROBERT BURNS.24sisting of his epistolary correspondence, little needbe said. They are written in English, with asprinkling of French, and possess a polish whichis really remarkable when his circumstances areconsidered.Our short essay on the productions of Burns,-would be imperfect without some notice of theirmoral influence. It is true, that some of themare unworthy of his genius; but it is deserving ofspecial notice, that many of the compositionswhich were printed in his works, are now wellknown never to have been penned by him. Al¬lowing, however, that he wrote all the objection¬able pieces ascribed to him, it would be unfair tokeep out of view the many moral beauties whichshine so clearly in his other productions; and wemay add in conclusion, that there is scarcely asingle page of his works, which does not tend tothe iirtprovement of those who read them.<