CRAWFORD'S VRACTS.No. 1.THE SINNER’S SOBS;OR, THEWay to Sion,A SERM-OM.n KlLMARSOCX*H^tSTlXG .0^jH.CRAWFonD.^DEMONSTRATINGThe absolute necessity of true Godly Sorrow,for the Sinner’s safety.BY THE REV. THOS. BOSTON.PRINTED IN THE YEAR1820,OR, THEWay to Sion’s Joy.Acts ii. 37.New, when they heard this, they were prickedin their hearts, and said to Peter, and theother NpoUles, Men and brethren^ whatshall we do to be saved?IN this chapter you have an account ofthe effects of the Apostle St. Peter’sJ'an[ious Sermon; having told the Jews inthe verses beterc my text, that they werethe men that had crucified the Lord of life,and shed the blood of the Son of God, thatthey had consented to it and imbrued theirhands in it. 1 his stung their consciences,and 'pricked their hearts: the arrows ofthe Lord, which the Apostles had shot se¬cretly into their souls, came home to theirhearts and consciences, that they could3hear no longer; but came to Peter and therest, and said, What shall we do to besaved ?, The doctrine which I would brieflyspeak of from these words is this:Doctrine an unfeigned sorrow and con¬trition of heart, convinced of God’s hatredof sin, is absolutely necessary to salvation.This is that we call the beginning of thework of grace, even in the bruising of asinner’s heart, under the sense of any sincommitted.To prove this to be absolutely necessaryto salvation, not only scripture, but reasoriwill tell us. For scripture see the 1 Cor.vii. 10. Godly sorrow causeth repentanceunto salvation. And as the Prophet Davidin the bitterness of his spirit, said, Thoukeepest mine eyes waking, and my sin isever before me. If the Lord loves a sinnerand means to do him good, he will not letthe sinner alone in his own sinful courses,but will free him from his den, bruise andbeat him as in a mortar.' What causedDavid’s sorrow but his sin ? He neededno restoring, had he not been degraded.4Well then, is this a work of grape 1 Isthis contrition and sorrow for sin, a begin¬ning of repentance; then it must needs beof great necessity to salvation.I ; -Now, that something may l)e hinted toput sinners in a way to this unfeigned sor¬row, let me beg of you, in the bowels oflove, earnestly desiring your souls welfare,to meditate seriously on these three things,which will if set home by the spirit of God,help you to the after work, even heartysorrow and true contrition.1. Look over your past life, and labourto see the goodness and patience of God,who hath been abused and despised by thatunkind dealing of yours. Oh, souls ! re¬member the days of old, and reckon upGod’s gracious dealings with you. Wereyou ever yn want, who supplied you?Were you ever in weakness, who strength¬ened you ? In sickness, who cured you ?In misery, who succoured you ? Was it notthe Lord ? And how can you forget him,who forgot not y7ou in your low estate ?Will you reward the Lord thus? Whatshall I say of you ? Hear, O heavens, andhearken O earth! i'ne ox knovveth hisowner, and the ass his master’s crib; and■>5will you not acknowledge God's kindnessand goodness to you ? Look into yourhouses, go to your tables and beds, andsay, who gives these, and continues themto us ? Doth not the Lord ? ‘ arid yet ye sinagainst this God. Certainly, my friends,seiious meditation on this must break theheart, and cause sorrow for sin! But,Ik If the mercy, goodness, and long pa¬tience of God, will not move nor melt you,consider that God is just too, if mercy can¬not prevail, you will have justice enough.Take heed, O hard hearted and undauntedsinners, the just law contemned, and theserighteous statutes that have been brptcen,and that God that hath been provoked byyou will be revenged of you. Where’sNimrod and Nebuchadnezzar, Pharoah andHerod, and all these proud persons thatset their mouths against- God, and theirhearts against heaven; what is now becomeof them! they are now in the bottomlesspit of hell.As the apostle saith, our God is a con¬suming fire, •Heb: 20. And if my firebe kindled it shall burn to the bottom ofhell. Meditate then on the justice of Godprovoked ! lest thou art called to the bar6if;f” iV !too soon to answer for thy sins; and cer¬tainly a serious meditation here must needsprovoke an unfeigned contrition.III. Meditate on the cost and punishmentof sin. Consider, O stubborn sinner, whatwill sin cost you i namely, those tormentsthat cannot be conceived. Hath not theGod of heaven and earth, with all his at¬tributes, passed before you, viz. his long-suffering •, hath not all these come to yourhearts arid whispered in your ears, and said,“ Bounty hath kept you, patience hathborne wdth you, long-suffering hath en¬dured you, mercy hath relieved you, thegoodness of God hath been gracious toyou.” All these will bid you all adieu, andthen you will be sentenced to the bottom¬less pit, where thy companions will bedevils, horror the language, brimstone andfire the torture, and eternal death the soul'seternal life. Certainly, my friends, seriousmeditation on this must break the heart,and cause sorrow for sin.What a terrible day shall this be, whenthou shalt leave this mansion and enter in¬to an unknown region! Who can defendthee from those hellish monsters ? God isincensed, hell prepared, justice threatened.7only mercy must prevent, or the soul i“damned. O miserable news, the soul com¬mitted sin. But to give you some reasons,why there must be this 'piercing andwounding of souls for sin.1 Reason. Because sin is the greatestevil of the soul, and the greatest burden al¬so ; that is most grievous which is mostheavy. Now, as there is no’evilso pro¬perly and directly evil to the so^l as theevil of sin is, so there is nothing that canproperly do the soul good but God. Now,while a sinner cannot see his sin, he can¬not sorrow for his sin. Now it is a godlysorrow that causeth repentance unto life,as yon may see in 2 Cor. vii. 10. Andassuredly the soul that sees not the evil ofsin, shall fall by the evil of punishment.2 Reason, ‘ Why unfeigned sorrow andcontrition of heart for sin is necessary tosalvation.’ Because, by sound sorrow, thesoul is truly prepared and fitted for JesusGhriat, as you may see in the Prophet Jer.xi. 3. Plow up the fallen ground of yonfhearts, and sow not among thorns. Whatis it else, but to have the heart pierced withthe terrors of the Lord, by a sound saying,sorrow for -srn. * Plow up the corruptions3which are the thorns and thistles in yourhearts,’ as the Prophet David saith, PsalmH. 27. ’Tis a broken and a contrite heart,O God, thou wilt- not despise. The heartmust be broken all to p;eces, beaten topowder, and must be content to be weanedfrom all sin, which is the way to be fittedfor Jesus Christ.3. Reason. The soul cannot part withits sins and lusts, which is its god, until hefind himself wearied with them, and asgall and wormwood to him; and now thisweariedness and burden of sin, must needscause in the soul a sound sorrow for it, be-fote the soul sees the venomous and uglynature of it, he is not willing to part withit. Go to pull away the adulterer’s whore,and the drunkard's pot, you had as goodgo to kill them ; the reason is because theyfind sweetness in those base courses, andthey are all their delight. But now, whenthe Lord comes to lay a heavier weight onthis man’s shoulders than those wickedsins, which were so sweet before, he findsthem now as bitter as gall and wormwood;^nd now he lies down in sorrow, and criesput. t; Oh is sin such a deadly killing evil,as it will certainly destroy body and souiin hell. And is there no entering into<)heaven with the guilt of these upon mysoul. Oh, good Lord, do what thou wiltwith me, only take my soul ar.d save me,and take away my lusts and corruptidnfrom me.”Thus have you briefly the reasons of theprint, that this is the way of God’s work¬ing ; that sorrow and contrition of heartfor sin, is the way to conversion from sin,and a turning to God, I now proceed tO'the application.The first shall be for instruction.The second for reproof and complaint.The third for exhortation.Use 1. It is so that this sorrow, underthe burden and weight of sin, will pierce aman’s soul to the quick, and grinds him asit were to powder ; being run through bythe arrows of the Almighty, and that it isof so great necessity to lac humbled, andgreatly sorrowful for sin. Then let thisteach us now to carry ourselves one to¬wards another, and to such as God hathdealt thus with, having their souls pierced.O do you pity them. They lie down in10sorrow, eat the bread of adversity, anddrink the water of affliction; have coni'passion on them. See what the Lord savs.Dent. xxii. 1. Thou shalt not see thybrother’s ox, nor his sheep go astray, andhide thyself from them ; thou shalt in anycase bring them again unto thy brother.And henceforth the Lord commandedmercy to be shewn to the unreasonablecreature that is wearied with the weight hecarries. Hath the Lord care of oxen, andO wilt thou help to ease the herd of thybrother, that is thus tried with the wrathof the Almighty ! Do you see, and cannotmourn for them, pray for them, and speakin the behalf of distressed souls. See whatJob saitli, Chap. xix. 11 22. 23. Oh, saithhe, that my sorrows wjere all weighed,they would prove heavier than the sands.As if h^ had said, ‘ O my friends have pityupon me? What, have you no regard fora man in misery ? Have you no pity, thoughhe cry in bitterness of his soul ? Help, help,for the Lord’s sake.?’ O, pray for, and pitythose wounds and vexations of spirit,which no man Icels but lie that is thuswounded, fhe poor man lies crying un¬der the burden of\sin, sighing and saying.Oh, when will God revive his droopinglisoul! Certainly it would make one’s heartbleed to hear the sounding; away of such aman, that the sword of the Almighty hathpierced his heart, and he lying breathingout his sorrow, as though he was goingdown to hell. It is a sign that soul ismarked for destruction of himself, whoharboureth such a desperate design againstpoor wounded souls. ' Oh! could you secJob all smitten with boils, he lying miser¬ably forlorn in the eye of men; and wouldyou not lend him a hand nor a mouth tohelp him. Can you endure to. see thempricked to the heart, roaring and staringunder the heavy yoke and burden of theirsins, crying out, What shall we do to besaved ? O what shall we do to escape helland damnation, and those unsupportableand unquenchable flames of the'wrath ofGod ? Canst thou stand still, and say ordo nothing; or rather, canst thou upbraidthem. O soul, assuredly the Lord willremember thee in the day of thy death,and as thou hast shewn no mercy, so shaltthou receive no mercy in that day ; suchwilling and violent opposers of God’s grace,the Lord will bring them one day on a bedof languishing, and make them roar byforce, under the violence of his wrath;8 O friends, be troubled at others troubles.12and nxmr.n in secret for all them thatcrsourn vender the terrible burden of theirsm.'Use 2, And here let me make a lamen¬tation, in the nature of reproof, againstthe secure souls in this generation whereinwe live; the Lord be merciful unto a worldof men, that live within the bosom of thechurch. O that we had a fountain of tearsto bewail this age, in this respect; as Dio¬genes went about Athens, with a lanthornand candles, at noon day, seeking honestmen ; so should a minister go from countryto country, and from shire to shire. Ohow few would he find mourning for sin.Sin is so far from l^eing a burden to them,that it is their sport and pastime, just likeEsau. What did he when he had ate anddrank ? He rose up to play, Gen. xxv.How few are there like Ephraim, whosmite upon their thigh, and cry out. Whathave I done. Men upon their ale-benches,can swear, drink, rail against God, anddefy the Holy One of Israel. O! how fewrail against their sins, and wish the deat.iand destruction of them. How few cryout. Men and brethren, what shall we doto be saved ; but or t/ie contrary. O thatit were soundly lamented for and reproved.13'Many do despight to the spirit of grace,and glory in these things for which theyhave cause to be ashamed. Says the vileswearer, I have swore such a mart out ofhis house. Saith the drunkard, l havedrank such a man under the table dead.O sinners 1 pray read that place of theapostle, and there you may see your doom.1 speak to impudent and incorrigible sin¬ners, 2 1'hes. ii. 12. That all will be damn¬ed who believe not the truth, but havepleasure in unrighteousness. These words .should shake one’s heart to think on them,and the Lord in mero look upon you, andmake sin as loathsome and bitter to you asever it hath been sweet and pleasant. Oh,sport not with sin. Consider that Dives,for a drunken feast here had a dry feast inhell, and could not get one drop of waterto cool his tongue. So will it be with you,you n ust either repent and mourn for sin,or else .burn for ever. What wilt thou do,O man, when God shall come to tear theein pieces, and there lie none to help ; whenGod shall grant the devil leav^ to take theeinto his accursed mansions, and there shaltthou lie, weeping and gnashing of thyteeth for ever; there shalt thou lie bfcis-pheming, with, God’s wrath, like a pile of14-fire upon thy soul, burning with floods andseas of tears, which thou tnayest shed, butshall never quench it. Which way soeverthou lookest, thou shalt see matter andcause of everlasting grief. Look up toheaven, and there thou shalt see, O! thatGod is good for ever. Look about thee,and thou shalt see devils quaking and curs¬ing God, and thousands, nay millions, ofsinful damned creatures, crying, and roar¬ing out with doleful shrieks1. “ O the daythat ever I was born,” Look within thee,there is a guiltv conscience continuallygnawing thee. Look on the time past;O ! those golden days of grace, and sweetseasons of mercy are gone. Look to thetime to come, and there shalt thou beholddevils, troops and swarms of sorrows andwoes, and raging waves, and billows ofwrath coining roaring on thee. Fly fromit, O fools, before you feel it, bewail your¬selves, be sorry, grieve and mourn, humbleyourselves in the sight of the Lord, bepricked to the heart; go tell God you can¬not bear your sins, they are too heavy foryou, much more the punishment; com¬plain to him who is able to ease you. Ovex not the righteous soul of the godlyIrona day to day, neither grieve the holyspirit of God, but be converted, that wemay live. Cry mightily to the Lord, per-adventure he may hear, and forget, andforgive all your provocations; wekp thatyou have not lamented more; and grievethat you have not grieved more for sin.Use S, Is of exhortation, to exhort andbeseech poor unconverted sinners that areunder the command of the prince of thepower of the air, who are strangers to Godand aliens to the covenant of promise, whohave lived all this while without God inthe world, to come in hither, and takethe right way to bring your hearts to aright pitch of sorrow. Let me tell you itwill never repent }ou the last day, thatyou have had your heart humbled; it willnever repent }ou that you have wept,when our blessed Saviour Jesus Christcomes to wipe away all tears from youreyes Hear what our blessed Saviour saith^Matt. v. 4. Blessed are ail they that mournfor they shall be comforted. Is it not bet¬ter to endure a little torment here for asmall time, than to be tormented in hellfire for ever ? O, therefore, if you desireever to see the face of God with comfort,and to have Chiist speak for you. breakyour hearts with sorrow for sin. For theLord’s sake do not cozen yourselves. It16is not only the tears of the eye, but theblood of the heart, your sins must cost;and till you come to this, never think yoursorrow is good. This sorrow consists, notin a bare rending of garments, or changeof apparel, or denying themselves thoseoutward ornaments, as some people of latedays do foolishly conceive, who had beenfilled with desperate hypocrisy, having leftoff here, and gone no further; but youmust break off your hearts, wound your¬selves here, and be driven into amazementfor sin, or else if will live with you hereand in hell too. O! therefore, when Godbegins to work, follow the blow, and saywith the Prophet David, Psalm xxiii. 2.Our eyes wait upon the Lord our God,until that he have mercy upon us. p Getyour consciences wounded, and resolve notto hear the counsel of carnal friends. Gothou and lie at God’s footstool, and confessthy sins before him, for it is he that con-fesseth and forsaketh all, shall find mercy;and where there is this true and heartyconfession, there must needs be a godly•sorrow for sin.To provoke you to it, let me leave youtwo or three motives.1. Consider it is not a vain thing thatyou are exhorted to, but that upon which17the life of your souls depends*, for with¬out a thorough sense and pricking at theheart for sin, there is no salvation fromsin. He that would be Christ’s disciple,must leave all he hath, father, mother,wife, children, all that’s near and dear tohim, and take up the cross and followChrist. He that would be a true covenantmust both confess and grieve for sin, as theProphet Ezekiel saith, They shall rememrber their ways that were not good, andshall be ashamed. O then b^ persuaded,poor careless and unregenerate sinners, tomind the check of your conscience withinyou, and the clear perspicuous light of thegospel without you, and come among thenumber of mourners to mourn for simYou may mourn your eyes out hereafter,and answer no purpose. Better weep herea while, than for ever in hell; for ourLord Jesus hath said. Blessed are themourners, for they shall be comforted.O souls, these are no trivial things; pressyou to; the Lord make you serious in yoursorrow for sin, that it may be such godlysorrow as vvorketh life and peace.2. Consider deep and hearty sorrow for,and true confession of sin, is a very hon¬ourable thing in the eyes of God and goodmen. O souls, it will tend to your evey-18lasting honour and renown. In the greatday, when God shall acquit, you before allthe world, both angels, men, and devils,and say', ‘ Here behold the ingenious con-fessor, and the true godly mourner, whowas not ashamed to say, in sin I was con¬ceived, and in iniquity brought forth.*This weeping soul have comforted withmy spirits, and he stands justified by myson’s merits. I’ll honour him with amantle that is better than that of all thedaughters. Come then, Oh soul, seeamong the mourners in Zion, as every onedesires to be comforted, and as every onewould be so highly honoured.3. Consider then that godly sorrow andconfession of sin is a safe thing; it is thebest and safest way to heaven and glory'.Is it safe to contend with God 1 Can briarsand thorns contend with God in battle ?Is it safe to fall into the hands of the liv¬ing God with the guilt of all your sins onyou? No, therefore consider what I havesaid, and the way I have fixed on, viz.Godly sorrow, and true heart-breakingfor sin; and the Lord give you under¬standing in all things.Now to God the Father God the Son, and God theJdQiy Ghotl, three persons and one God, be given fas itmost due,) all honour, glory, and praise, now and forever, Amen-19Importance of SobrietyLLVSTTATED BVTHE EVILS OF INTEMPERANCE.YRUS, when quite a youth, at thecourt of his grandfather, Astyages,undertook one day to perform the officeof cup-bearer- He delivered the cup verygracefully, but omitted the usual customof first tasting it himself. The king re¬minded him of it, supposing he had for¬gotten :No, Sir,” replied Cyrus ; “ but I wasafraid there might be poison in it; for Ihave observed that the lords of your court,after drinking, become noisy, quarrelsome,and frantic; and that even you. Sir, seemto have forgotten that you were a king.”—“ Does not the same thing,” repliedAstyages, “ happen to your father?”—“Never,” answered Cyrus.—“How then?”—Why, when he has taken what wine hechooses, he is no longer thirsty—that isall.”20Happy the man who shall live in thosedays in which the practice of excessivedrinking shall be universally laid aside, anddetested! At present, we can scarcely namea vice more common, or that is carried toa more alarming height. It prevails in thecity, in the town, in the village, in thehamlet, among gentlemen, who ought toblush for its vulgarity, and among labour¬ers, who can ill bear the expense. Arethere not intemperate young men, intem¬perate old, men, intemperate parents, in¬temperate magistrates, intemperate profes¬sors of religion, intemperate preachers ofthe Gospel! Oh! could we view the sceneswhich intemperance creates in the ale¬house, the tavern, and the festive parlour ;what grief, what indignation, within us!There is woe, there is sorrow, there iscontention, there is babbling, there is red¬ness of eyes, there are wounds withoutcause.To mark exactly the line which separatessobriety from excess, is not easy. Whilea man preserves his eye and his under¬standing clear, while he speaks withoutfaulteiing, while his passions are undis¬turbed, and his step linn ; who shall accusehim ? Yet, with all these favourable appear¬ances, he may be guilty.21! There may be excess, where there Is nodiscovery of it; it is well for those whoi abhor the former as much as they would; dread the latter. To them conscience is abetter guide than a thousand rules. Everyone knows when he has quenched histhirst, diluted his food, refreshed his spirits;what does a man want more? “ He claimsI a cheerful glass in addition.” We are jea-I lous of that cheerful glass ; we fear it willj prove one too many ; and such assuredly(it is, when it becomes questionable to aI man’s own mind, whether he is intoxicated! or still sober.Let him that would guard against alll approaches of this habit, consider the evilsi which attend it.Excessive Drinking is imprudent. It brings: dimness and decay over the faculties of theisoul; it has made the rich poor, and the; condition of the poor intolerable; it robs ai man of his real friends, and gathers roundI him designing knaves, and empty fools ;iit destroys the taste for innocent and solidjpleasure; it arms reflection with a sting;, it sows the seed of innumerable disorders ;it has brought millions to a premature! grave.Excessive Drinking is sinful Usually iti suspends the exercise of sound reason, and22thus levels the noblest distinction betweenmen and brutes; it is an ungrateful wasteof the Creator’s bounty j it is disobedi¬ence: our Lord having expressly com¬manded his disciples to take heed, lest at.any times their hearts should be over¬charged with surfeiting and drunkenness:it is a practice of which the natural effectis to stupify conscience; then vice rushesin like a flood, confidence is betrayed,anger storms, the defiled heart meditatesfornication and adultery, the ■ rdbber iswrought up to the ruffian pitch, duty anddanger are equally despised.—Go to thedrunkard’s residence: what injustice, whatbarbarity, what wretchedness, are exem¬plified there! Imagine the offender to bepoor, and you complete the picture. Hewho should be the counsellor, the comfort,the ornament, of that family, is its tempter,its trouble, its reproach. His wife andchildren, when alone, enjoy a respite, andbegin to brighten up; he returns, theytremble, and are again distracted. He hasspent their money, he has quarrelled, hehas met with mischief : sometimes he for¬gets it—and then he only disgusts themwith bufibonery and nonscLse; more fre¬quently he remembers it—and tnen hewreaks upon them the spite and-fury col-. 23cted and inflamed amidst a drunkenew; and they must bear it; they musti stunned by his stupid roar; they musteather the tempest of blasphemy ; theylust be sickened by the approach of his(athsome person; they, for his prodiga¬lly, must appear half-naked, and live half-arved.Excessive Drinking is a habit toon formed,ipid in its growth, and hard to root up. Atrst a man drinks for refreshment, he thenkes a larger draught for pleasure, he still(Ids a little and a little, till he can neverfave his cups without taking a little tooUich. His appetite increases as it is in-(ulged; the quantity which once intoxi-lited, now does but just cheer him ;, he!:els a craving, he removes it by excess;e craves again, and becomes miserably if6 does not again receive an exaavagantlupply. Ihus he degenerates into thejinished sot; and then, whatever intervals:»f remorse disturb him, whatever tearsjlow, whatever promises and vowrs arelittered, he generally relapses, grows worsei.nd worse, and—dies. It may be easy,L) young man. to refrain in these thy soberllayc; but intemperance, when perfectednto a habit, defies the powers of a warn¬ing voice, and would in every instance24lead us to withdraw our counsels in depair, but that we recollect, a dying thiehas been converted, God is able of stoneto raise tip children unto Abraham, wit)God all things are possible!We shall be well rewarded, if, by meanof this paper, one person, hitherto ignerant and insensible, be led to the SavioutHe will blush and mourn for the past; buhis prospects will open into a, glorious immortality. Disgusted with the pollutionof the world, and with the excess of rioto which he himself may have run, he wilhenceforth keep under his body, and bringit into subjection, he will abstain fromfleshly lusts, which war against the soul}in one word, he will live under the influ¬ence of this apostolic and most important'exhortation:“ Whether ‘ye eat, or drink, or whatso¬ever ye do, do all to the glory of God.”" . . d fFIN J S.