Life and PropheciesMR ALEX. PEDEN,Late Minister of the Gospel at New Gienluce,Galloway.And his Remarkable LetterTo the Prisoners of Donnottar Casle, July 1685.EDINBURGH :Paiitod fot the Booksellers in Town and Coimtiy.OF SCOTLAND^THELIFE AND PROPHECIESMR ALEX. PEDEN./ * ' •• - ...Mr ALEXANDER PEDEN was born in the parishof Sorh, in the Sheriffdom of Ayr. After he past hisbourse at the college, he was employed for some time tobe School-master, Precentor, and Session Clerk, to MrJohn Guthrie, Minister of the Gospel at Tarbolton.1. When he was about to enter on the Ministry, ayoung woman fell with child, in adultery, to a servantin the house where he stayed; when she found herselfto be so, she told the father of it, who said. I’ll run forit, and go to Ireland; father it on Mr Peden, he hastnore to help you to bring it up (he having a small he¬ritage) than I have. The same day that he was to gethis license, she came in before the Presbytery, and Said,I hear you are to license Mr Peden to be a Minister ;but do it not, for I am with child to him. He beingv/ithout at the time, was called in by the Moderator;Snd being questioned about it, he said, I am surprised-—J cannot speak; but let none entertain an ill thoughtof me, for I am utterly free Of it, and God will vindi-0. ... ■ . /f. - . .. ’* ■ _ it >.  vcate me in his own time and way. He went home, andwalked at a water side upwards of 24 hours, and wouldneither eat nor drink, but said, I have got what I wasseeking, and I will be vindicated, and that poor unhappylass will pay dear for it in her life, and will make a dis-| mal end ! and for this surfeit of grief that she has giventij me there shall never one of her sex come in to my bos-;om; and accordingly he never married. There arei! various reports of the way that he was vindicated: some[say, the time she was in child-birth Mr Guthriecharg-i ed her to give account who was the father of that child :i and discharged the woman to be helpful to her, until!i she did. —Some say that she confessed ; others, that!j she remained obstinate. Some of the people, when Imade inquiry about it in that country-side, affirmed,:. that after the Presbytery had been at all pains about it,i i and could get no satisfaction, they appointed Mr. Guth¬rie to give a full telatjon of the whole before the congre-I; gation, which he did ; and the same day the father ofjjj the child being present, when he heard Mr Guthrie be-; gin to read, he stood up, and desired him to halt, and5 said, “ I am the father of that child, and I desired her: to father it on Mr Peden, which has been a greatij trouble of conscience to me; and I could not get rest till11 came home to declare it." However, it is certain that,after she was married, every thing went cross with: them, and they went from place to place, and were re-i duced to great poverty. At last she came to that same[ spot of ground, where she stayed upwards of 24 hours,|| and made away with herself.! 2. After this, he was three years settled Minister atNew Glenluce, in Galloway: and when he was obliged,d by the violence and tyranny of that time, to leave that*i] parish, he lectured upon Acts xx. 17, to the end; andM he preached upon verse 31st. in the forenoon, “ There-foie watch, and remember, that for the space of threeyears I ceased not to warn every one night and daywith tears. ’’—Asserting, that he had declared the wholecounsel of God, and had kept nothing back; and pro- jtested that he was free of the blood of all souls. And |(in the afternoon, he preached on the 32d verse, “ And !|now, brethren, I commend you to God and to the word jof his grace, which is able to build you up, and to giveyou an inheritance among all them that are sanctified,"— !which was a weeping day in that Kirk ; the greatest partcould not contain themselves; he many times requestedthem to be silent; but they sorrowed most of all, whenhe told them, that they should never see his face in that (pulpit again.—He continued until night; and when heclosed the pulpit-door, he knocked hard upon it threetimes with his Bible, saying three times over, I arrestin my Master’s name, that never one enter there, butsuch as come in by the door as I did. Accordingly,neither Curate nor Indulged Minister ever enteredthat pulpit, until after the Revolution, that a PresbyterianMinister opened it.I had this account from old persons in that parish,who were witnesses to it, and worthy of all credit.3. After this he joined with that honest and zealoushandful in the year 1666, that was broken at Pentland-hills, and came the length of Clyde with them, wherehe had a melancholy view of their end, and partedwith them there. James Cubison, of Paluchbeauties, myinformer, to whom he told this, said to him, “ Sir,you did well that parted with them, seeing you was per¬suaded they would fall and flee before the enemy."—Glory, glory to God, that he sent me not to hell imme¬diately!— for I should have stayed with them, thoughI should have been cut all to pieces."3'4. That night the Lord's people fell, and fled be¬fore the enemy at Pentland-hills. He was in a friend’shouse in Carriek, sixty miles from Edinburgh ; Inslandlord seeing him mightily troubled, inquired howit was with him ? He said, to-morrow I will speak withyou and desired him to bring a candle. That nighthe went to bed ; the next morning calling early to hislandlord, said, “ I have sad news to tell you; ourfriends that were together in arms, appearing for Christ’sinterest, are now broken, killed, taken, and fled everyman."—Ele said, “ Why do you speak so ? There is agreat part of our friends’ prisoners in* Edinburgh.”—About 48 hours thereafter,-they were fully confirmedin the truth of it.5. After this, in June 1673, he was taken byMajor Cockburn, in the house of Kncckdow. in Carrick,who constrained him to tarry all night. Mr Perlen toldhim, that it would be a dear night’s quarters to themboth. Accordingly they were both carried prisoners toEdinburgh. Hugh Ferguson was fined in a thousandmerks, for resetting, harbouring, and conversing with| him. The council ordered 50 pounds sterling to be paidto the Major out of the fines, and ordained himto divide c25 pounds sterling among the party thatapprehended him. Some time after examination, hewas sent prisoner to the Bass, where, and at Edinburgh,he remained until December 1668, that he was banish¬ed.6. While prisoner in the Bass, one Sabbath morning,•being about the public Worship of God, a young lass,about 13 or 14 years of age, came to the chamber door,mocking with loud laughter; he said, “ Poor thing, thoumocks and laughs at the worship of God; but ene long,God shall write such a sudden surprising judgment on6thee, that shall stay thy laughing, and thou shall notescape it.”—Very shortly after, she was walking on therock, and there came a blast of wind, and sweeped herinto the sea, where she perished.7. One day, when Mr Peden was taking the air uponthe rock, some soldiers passing by him, one of themsaid, “Devil take him,” “ Fy, fy, poor man, said MrPeden, thou knowest not what thou art saying ; Jjuttho» wilt repent that.” At which words the soldier staf&dastonished, and went to the guard-house distracted,crying aloud for Mr Peden, saying the Devil wouldimmediately take him away! But when Mr Peden cameto him, he found him in his right mind, under deep con¬victions of great guilt. The guard being to change, theydesired him to go to his arms ; which he refused to do,and said he would lift no arms against Jesus Christ andhis cause, to persecute his people ; he had done that tooJong. The governor threatened him with death to-morrowabout ten o’clock ; but he confidently said, three times,though he should tear all his body in peices, he shouldrever lift arms that way. About three days after, theGovernor put him out of the garrison, and set himashore. He having a wife and children, took a housein East Lothian, where he became a singular Christian.Mr Peden told these astonishing passages to the fore-6aid John Cubison and others, who informed me.8. When brought from the Bass to Edinburgh, sen¬tence of banishment was passed upon him in December1678, and sixty more fellow prisoners, for the samecause, to go to America, never to be seen in Scotlandagain, under the pain of death. After this sentence waspassed, he several times said that the ship was not yetbuilt that should take him and these prisoners to Vir¬ginia, or any other of the English plantations in Ame¬rica.g. One James Kay, a solid and grave Christian, one■ of the above prisoners who lives in or about the Water■ of Leith, told me, that Mr Peden said to him, “ James,i when your wife comes in let me see herwhich heb did. After some discourse, he called fora drink, and whenif he sought a blessing, he said. Good Lord, let not James(Kay’s wife miss her husband till thou return him toher in peace and saftey; which we are sure will besooner than either he or she is looking for. Accordingly,the same day month that he parted with her at Leith,he came home to her at the Water of Leith.10. When they were on shipboard at Leith, there> was a report that the enemies were to send downthumbkins to keep them from rebelling. Hearingthis, they were discouraged. Mr Peden came on deck,and said, “Why are you discouraged ? You neednot fear, their will neither thumbkins nor bootkins'•i come here. Lift up your hearts and heads, for the dayof your redemption draweth near. If we were once atJ London, we will be all set at liberty.” And when sailing0 on their voyage, praying publicly,he said, “ Lord, suchis the enemies hatred at thee, and malice at us, for thyIsake, that they will not let us stay in thy land of Scot¬land, to serve thee, though some of us have nothingbut the canopy of thy heavens above us and thy earthto tread upon ; but. Lord, we bless thy name, that willcut short our voyage, and frustrate thy enemies of theirwicked design, that they will not get us where they in¬tend ; and some of us shall go richer home than wecame away.” James Pride, who lived in Fife, an hon¬est man, being one of them, said many times, hecould assert the truth of this, for he came safely home;and, beside other things, he bought two cows; andbefore that he never had one. I had these accounts bothfrom the foresaid James Kay and Robert Punton, a8known public man, worthy of all credit, who wits also Iunder the same sentence, who lived in the parish of j iDalmeny near the Queensferry.11. When they arrived at London, the skipper who !lreceived them at Leith was to carry them no farther. 1The skipper who was to receive them there, and carry 1them to Virginia, came to see them, they being represented jto him as thieves, robbers, and evil-doers; but when he j;found they were all grave Christian men, banished for 'Presbyterian principles, he said, he would sail the seawith none such.— In this confusion, that the one skipperwould not receive them, and the other would keep themno longer, being expensive to maintain them, theywere all set at hberty. It was reported, that both theskippers got compliments from friends at London;however, it is certain they were set free, without anyimposition of bonds or oaths; and their friends atLondon, and on their way homewards through England,shewed much kindness unto them.12. That dismal day, June 22 1679, at Bothwellbridge, that the Lord’s people fell and fled before theenemy, he was forty miles distant, near the border, andkept himself retired until the middle of that day, thatsome friends said to him, “ Sir, the people are waitingfor sermon.” He said, “ Let the people go to theirprayers ; for me, I neither can nor will preach any thisday, for our friends are fallen, and fled before the en¬emy at Hamilton; and they are hanging and hashingthem down, and their blood is running like water." „13. After this, he was preaching in Galloway :In the afternoon he prayed earnestly for the prisonerstaken at and about Bothwell; but in the afternoon whenhe began to pray for them, he halted and said, “ Our9i friends at Edinburgh, the prisoners, have done some*what to save their lives that shall not do them any; good; for the sea-billows shall be many of their winding-sheets ; and the few of them that escape, shall not be' useful to God in their generationwhich was sadlyverified thereafter. That which the greatest part ofthese prisoners did, was the taking of that Bond, com¬monly called the Black-Bond, after Bothwell, whereinthey acknowledged their appearance ib arms, Jbr thedefence of the Gospel and their own lives, to be rebellion,and engaged themselves never to make any moreoppositions: upon the doing -of which, these perfidi¬ous enemies promised them life and liberty, whichmuch grieved Mr Peden.14. After the public murdering of these two worthy,? women martyrs, Isobel Allison and Marion Harvie, in|l the Grass-market of Edinburgh, January 1681, he was|i in Galloway. A professor of some note, who had moreji carnal wit and policy than to suffer him to be honn est and faithful, after reasoning upon the grounds of' I their sufferings, affirmed that they would never be(reckoned among the number of the martyrs. Mr Pedensaid, after musing a little, “Let alone, you’ll never behonoured with such a death : and for what you havei! said against these two worthy lasses, your death will11 be both sudden and surprisingwhich was shortlyj thereafter; the man standing before the fire, smoking1 his pipe, dropt down dead, without speaking more.15. In the pionth of June, 1682, he was in theI house of James Brown Douglas, John Wilson in Lan¬ark was with him, who suffered martyrdom in theGrass-market of Edinburgh, the next year. May 1683.He lectured at night upon Amos viii. and repeated thesewords in the 6th verse three times; And I will rise a-gainst the house qf Jeroboam with the sword. He laid10his hands on the said John, and said, “John, have atthe unhappy name of Stuarts ! off the throne shallthey go, if a 11 the world should set side and shoulder tohold them on. ” Afterwards he broke out in a raptureabout our martyrs, saying, “ They were going on thestage with fresh gales and full sails,'and now they areglancing in glory ! O if ye saw them ! they would fleyyou out of you^ wits.” He again laid his hands uponthe said John, and said, ‘'Encourage yourself in theLord, and hold him fast, John; for you’ll win up yon¬der shortly, and get on your braws. ” That night hewent to the fields. To-morrow, about six o’clock Johnwent to seek him, and found him coming to the house.He said, “John, let us go from the house, for the de¬vil is about it, and will take his prey with him. ” Johnsaid, “ We will take breakfast ere we go, it is a ques¬tion When we will get the offer again. ” He answered,“ No, no, I will not eat bread in this place; our land¬lord is an unhappy man; the devil will get him shortly,for he will hang himselfwhich very shortly aftercame to pass ; his daughter, Jean Brown, was the firstthat got him in her arms, hanging in the stable. Shewas reckoned by all to be a grave Christian lass, butfrom that day never had her health, and died of a de¬cay at last, after she had been some time in prison forher principles. This passage the same John Wilson re¬ported several times to many.16. In the year 1680, after the murdering of MrCameron, and these worthies with him at' Airdsmoss,Mr Peden was near Mauchline, in the shire of Ayr:one Robert Brown, of Cross-house, who lived near theNew-mills, and one Hugh Pinaneve, factor to the Earlof Lothian, stabled their horses in that house where hewas, and went to the fair in Mauchline; and in the af¬ternoon, when they came to take away their horses.11thy got a drink in the time of it. The said Hugh, »vey wicked man, both in principle and practice, brokeon in a railing against sufferers, particularly against MrCaneron : Mr Peden being in another room overhear-*inj all, was so grieved, that he came to the chamber-dror, and said to the said Hugh, “ Sir, hold your peace,er: twelve o'clock thou shall know what a man MrCimeron was ; God shall punish that blasphemous sortof and cursed tongue of yours, in such a manner asshill be astonishing to all that see you, and shall setyoi up as.a beacon to all railing Rabshakehs." RobertBnwn, knowing Mr Peden, hasted to his horse, beingpeisuaded Mr Peden’s words would not fall to the ground,and fearing some mischief might befall him for being inthe said Hugh’s company, he rode hard home. Rob¬ert went to his own house, and Hugh to the Earl'shouse; and casting off his boots, he was struck withsuch a sickness and pain through his body, with hismouth so wide, and his tongue hanging so far out in afearful manner, that they sent for the said Robert; be¬ing used to take blood, he got some blood of him, butall in vain, for he died before midnight. The said Ro-«bert, an old man, told me this passage when we wereboth in prison together.17* In the year 1682, he was in Kyle, and preach¬ed upon that text. The plorvers plowed upon my hack,and drew long their furrows ; where he said, “Wouldye know who first yoked this plow ! It was cursed Cain,vhen he drew his furrows so long and also deep, thathe let out the heart-blood of his brother Abel; and hiacarsed seed has, and will gang, summer and winter,frost and fresh weather, till the world’s end; and atthe sound of the last trumpet, when all are in a flametheir theets will burn, and their swingletrees will fall tothe ground; the plowmen will lose their gripes of the1vl'l /12plow, and the gadmai will throw away their gate;and then, O the yelling and shrieking that will be amingall this cursed seed, clapping their hands, and cryingto the hills and mountains to cover them from the aceof the Lamb, and of him that sits upon the Throne,fortheir hatred of him, and malice at his people.”18. In the beginning of May 1685, he came to thehouse of John Brown and Marion Weir, whom he mar¬ried before he went to Ireland, where he stayed allnight; and in the morning, when he took farewell, hecame out at the door, saying to himself, “ Poor woman,a fearful morning, (twice over) a dark ptiisty morniig.’*The next morning, "between five and six o’clock, the*aid John Brown, having performed the worship ofGod in his family, was going with a spade in his hand,to put some peat ground in order, the mist being thickand dark, he knew not until cruel and bloody Claver-house compassed him with three troops of horse,brought him to his house, and there examined him;who, though he was a man of stammering, speech, ye:answered him distinctly and solidly, which made Clav-erhouse to ask at those whom he had taken to be hisguides through the muirs, if ever they heard him preach ?—They answered, No no, he was never a preacher.Claverhouse said, “ If he has never preached, he hasnrayed.” Then he said to John, “ Go to your prayers,for you shall immediately die. When he was prayingClaverhouse interrupted him three times. One time jthat he stopt him, he was pleading that the I.ord wouHspare a remnant, and not make a full end in the day jfhis anger. Claverhouse said, “ I gave you time topray, and ye are begun to preach.” John turned abcutupon his knees, and said, “ Sir you know neither :henature of preaching nor praying, if you call this preach-IJ ing. ” Then continued without confasion. When end-Jed, Claverhouse said, take good night of your wife andchildren. His wife standing by, with a child in her|| arms, which she had to him, and another child of hisfirst wife’s, he came to her and said, Now Marion, theday is come that I told you would come, when I spakefirst to you of marrying me.—She said, indeed, John, Ii can willingly part with you. Then he said, “That is| all I desire, I have no more to do but die.” He thenkissed his wife and bairns, and wished purchased andpromised blessings to be multiplied upon them, and hisown blessing. Claverhouse then ordered six of hisi soldiers to shoot, and the most part of the bullets came. upon his head, which scattered his brains upon theij ground 1—Claverhouse said to his wife, What think yei of your husband now, woman ?”—She said, I thoughtIever much of him, and now as much as ever. He saidit were justice to lay thee beside him. She answered, if, ye were permitted, I doubt not but your cruelty wouldj| go that length: But how will ye answer for this morn-i ing’s work? He said, to man I can be answerable,i and for God, I willtakehiminmyjownhand. Claverhousemounted his horse, and then marched, and left her withthe dead corpse of her husband lying there.—She set1.the bairn on the ground, gathered his brains, tied up! his head, straighted his body, and covered him w'ithii her plaid, and sat down and wept over him. It beinga very desert place, where victual never grew, and far■ from neighbours, it was some time before any friend?came to her; the first that came was a very fit hand,that old singular woman 'in the Cummerhead, named! Elizabeth Menzies, three miles distant, who had beentried with the violent death of her husband at Pent-land, and afterwards of two worthy sons, Thomas Weir,who was killed at Drumclog, and David Steel, who wasI14suddenly shot afterwards when taken. The said Mar¬ion Weir, sitting upon her husband's grave, told me, ithat before that she could see no blood but she was in. ;danger to faint, and yet she was helped to be a witnessto all this, without either fainting or confusion, except jwhen the shots were let ofT, her eyes dazzled. His !corpse was buried at the end of his house, where he j|j,was slain, with this inscription on his grave stone.In earth’s cold bed, the dusty part here lies.Of one who did the earth as dust despise:Here, in this place, from earth he took departure; jNow he has got the garland of a Martyr.d ■■'T jp. .V. !!This murder was committed betwixt six and seven! iin the morning, Mr Peden was about ten or eleven ;miles distant. Having been in the fields all night, he icame to the house betwixt 7 and 8, and desired to cal. iin the family, that he might pray amongst them ; when «praying, he said. Lord, when wilt thou avenge Brown’s jblood ?—Oh! let Brown’s blood be precious in thj >sight; and hasten the day when thou wilt avenge it iwith Cameron’s, Cargil’s, (and many others of our mar ityr’s names.) and, oh! for that day, when the Lon. i.will avenge all their blood! When ended, John Muirhead inquired what he meant by Brown’s blood? Hi isaid, W'hat do I mean ? Claverhouse has been at tinPreshil this morning, and has cruelly murdered Johi 1Brown ; his corpse is lying at the end of his houseand his poor wife sitting weeping beside them, and not;soul to speak comfortably to her. This morning, afte: [the sun-rising, I saw a strange apparition in the fir Imament; the appearance of a very bright, clear-shinin; c.star fall from heaven to the earth; and indeed there iia clear-shining light fallen this day, the greatest Chris ;tian that ever I conversed with.”1519- When the time of Mr Peden's death drew near,i and not being able to travel, he came to his brother’shouse in the parish of Sorn, where he was born. Hei] caused dig a cave, with a saughen bush covering themouth of it, near to his brother's house. The enemiesI got notice; and searched the house narrowly manytimes. In the time that he was in this cave, he saidto some friends—1st, That God shall make Scotland a1 desolation.—2dly, There shall be a remnant in the. land, whom God should spare and hide.—3dly, TheyI should lie in holes and caves of the earth, and be sup¬plied with meat and drink; and when they come out oftheir holes, they shall not have freedom to walk forstumbling on dead corpses.—4thly. A stone, cut out ofa mountain, should come down, and God shall be aven-s;ged on the great ones of the earth, and the inhabitants;liof the land, for their wickedness; and then the ^churchshould come forth with a bonny bairn-time of youngones at her back. He wished that the Lord’s peoplemight lie hid in their caves, as if they were not in theworld: for nothing would do it, until God appeared withibis Judgments : and they that wan through the bitterand sharp short storm, by the sword of the Frenches,and a set of unhappy men taking part with them, thenthere would be a spring-tide day of plenty, purity, andpower of the gospel, giving them this for a sign, If he werebut once buried they might be in doubts ; but if he wereoftener buried than once, they might be persuaded thatall he had said would come to pass; and earnestly de¬sired them to take his corpse out to Airdsmoss, andbury him beside Richy (meaning Mr Cameron) thathe might get rest in his grave, for he had gotten littlethrough his life: but he said, he knew they would notdo it.—He told them, that bury him where they would,he would be lifted up again ; but the man that put firstto his hand to lift his corpse, four things should befall16him: 1. He should get a great fall from a horse. 2.He should fall in adultery. 3. Into theft: and for this;he should leave the land. 4. Make a melancholy end.abroad for murder. Which accordingly came to pass,Th 2re was one Murdoch, a mason to his trade, but then1in the military service, who first put hands to his corpse.A little before his death he said. Ye shall be angrywhere I shall be buried at last, but I discharge you all,to lift my corpse again. At last, one morning early, hejcame to the door, and left his cave; his brother's wifesaid. Where are you going? the enemy will be here.He said, I know that. Alas 1 Sir, said she, what will be¬come of you ? You must go back to the cave again,!He said, I have done with that, for it is discovered:hut there is no matter, for, within forty eight hours, Iwill be beyond the reach of all the devil's temptations,and his instruments, in hell or on the earth; and theyshall trouble me no more. About three hours after heentered the house, the enemy came and found him notin the cave; then they searched the barn narrowly,casting the unthreshen corn; and searched the house,stabbing the beds, but entered not into the place wherehe lay. Whithin 48 hours he died, Jan. 28, 1686: beingpast 60 years, and was buried in Laird Afflect’s isle.The enemies got notice of his death and burial, and senta troop of dragoons, and lifted his corpse, and carriedhim to Cumnock gallows-foot, and buried him there(after being forty days in the grave) beside others. Hisfriends thereafter, laid on a grave stone above him with 1this inscription.17HERE LIESMr ALEXANDER PEDEN,A faithful Minister of the Gospel at Glenluce,Who departed this Life, Jan. 23, 1686,And was raised, after Six Weeks, out of his Grave,And buried here out of contempt.After this, the troop of dragoons came to quarter inIthe parish of Cambusnethen ; two of them were quar¬tered in the house of James Gary, my aquaintance ; theybeing frighted in their sleep, started up and clappedI' their hands, crying, Peden, Peden ! These two dra¬goons affirmed that out of their curiosity they opened:his coffin to see his corpse, and yet he had no smell,rithough he had been forty days dead. All the foregoing[articles I was assured of, except the 40th, which is saidhe spoke to John Clark in Muirbrock, within the boundslof Carrick, in the year 1685, and has been passing fromihand to hand in write. I sent a friend 20 miles to him:for the certainty of it; and, although he was my old ac-,!quaintance, he delayed to give it. But I am informed,rithat some other friends inquired at the said John, who1 owned that the 40th passage was all one, for substance,with what Mr Peden said to him. There are othern two passages I have often heard, and doubt nothing ofilthe truth of them, though the times and places be notn mentioned, viz. One day preaching in the fields, iniihis prayer, tie prayed earnestly for the preservation of(the people; and again and again he prayed for thati man that was to lose his life. The enemies came up¬on them the same day, and fired upon the people, andf ' ,18there was none of them either wounded or killed, saveone man, and he was shot dead. Another time he was ipreaching, artd gave a very large offer of Christ, in the iGospel terms; an old woman being sitting before himhe laid his hands on each side of her head, and rockeiher from side to side, and said. Thou witch-wife, thowitch-wife, thou wrtch-wife; I offer Christ to thee.lQuit the devil’s service, thou hast a bad master, thouwilt never make thy plack a bawbee of him ; but if thouwilt break off and renounce the devil’s service, I pro¬mise thee, in my master’s name, that he will givethee salvation. After this, there was a discerniblechange in her practice ; and when she was a-dying,she confessed that she was either engaged in the devil'sservice, or was engaging: and expressed her thankful¬ness that she had the happiness of hearing Mr Pedentat that time.Since the publishing of the former passages of MrPeden’s life and death, I received two letters from SirAlex. Gordon of Earlston, in the year 1725 and 1726,since gone to his grave—shewing that he was not onlyfully satisfied, but much refreshed with the passages,requesting me net to delay the publishing of all that Iproposed, and that he longed to see him before bewent off the stage ; knowing that my day is far spentbeing long since I was his fellow-prisoner, and taughthim, from my own experience, how to manage thegreat weight of irons that was upon his legs; and wish¬ing that all the Lord's people, who have any zeal for.the sworn to and sealed testimony, and savoury re-tmembrance of the names of Christ’s slain witnesses forj:the same, and of the Lord’s signal manifestations of hisfaithfulness and all sufficiency to them in their lifeand death, would give me all encouragement in such apiece of good and great regeneration work, which may beuseful and edifying when he and I would be moulder¬ing in the dust.■To the Prisoners in Dunnottar Castle,July l68 5.Dear Frienps,I I long to hear from you, how you spend your time, and1 3iow the grace of God grows in your hearts. I know: ye and other of the Lord’s people, by reason of the pre¬sent trial, have got up a fashion of complaining uponjChrist, but I defy you to speak an ill word of him, un¬less ye wrong him. Speak as you can, and spare not;Only I request that your expressions of Christ be suit-kble to your experience of him. If ye think Christ’schouse be bare and ill-provided, and harder than yeedooked for, assure yourselves Christ minds only to dietJiyou, and not to hunger you ; our steward knows when'to spend and when to spare. Christ knows well whe-tither heaping or straiking agrees best with our narrowijvessels, for both are alike to him ; sparing will not enrij rich him, nor will spending impoverish him. He thinksit ill won that is holden of his people. Grace and glo-ip-y comes out of Christ's lucky hand. Our vessels arei feckless and contain little; his fulness is most straiten¬ed when it wants a vent. It is easy for Christ to besholden busy in dividing the fulness of his Father’s; house to his poor friends; he delights not to keepmercy over-night. He is the easiest merchant ever.he people of God yoked with; if he be pleased with19 -ALETTERFROMALEXANDER PEDEN,• ' — ' lb20the wares, what of his graces makes bftst for you, hi 1and you will soon sort on the price; he will sell hi (jgoods cheap, that ye may speir for his shop again fand he draws all the sale to himself. I counsel yoi :.to go no farther than Christ. And now when it isicome to your door, either to sin or suffer, I counse ■you to lay your account with suffering; for an out-gaU •coming from any airth will be prejudicial to yoiu isoul’s interest. And for your encouragement, remembet|rhe sends none a warfare on their own charges, and blestft,.is the man that gives Christ all his money. The saf-jjiest way to shift the shower is to hold out of God’s gate!and keep within his doors, until the violence of theStorm begin to ebb, which is not yet full tide. Christdeals tenderly with his young plants, and waters them i.oft lest they go back; be painful, and lose not life forb;the seeking. Grace, mercy and peace be with you.EPITAPH '* jUpon the Martyr’s Monument in the Gray-friatsChurch-yard in Edinburgh.Upon the head of the Tomb there is the Effigies of aropen Bible, drawn with these Scripture citationsRev. vi. 7. 10. 11.—“ And when he had opened thtfifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of theithat had been slain for the Word of God, and foithe testimony which they held,” &c.—Rev. vii. 14>Also the following lines :Hai.t, passenger, take heed what you do see.This tomb doth shew for what some men did die;Here lies interr’d the dust of those who stood'Gainst perjury, resisting unto blood ;Adhering to the Covenant and Laws,Constant and stedfast, zealous, witnessing,for the Prerogatives of Christ their King,i'Vhich truths were seal’d by famous Guthrie’s headfrnd all along to Mr Renwick’s blood.Ifhey did endure the wrath of enemies,leproaches, torments, deaths and injuries;; iut yet they’re these who from such trouble came,oMd now triumph in glory with the Lamb.' 1 From May 27th, l6ol, that the noble Marquis of! ‘‘rgyle suffered, to Feb. 27th, 16S8, that Mr James(f’enwick suffered, 100 Noblemen, Gentlemen, Minis-! ;rs, and others, were executed at F.dinburgh, noblemartyrs for Jesus Christ. The most part of theme here.—It is also said that 28,000 suffered in theate persecutions in Scotland.o bout forty years ago, the famous Mr George Whit-fnld used annually to visit Glasgow, and, by his popularbode of preaching, allured great multitudes, especially4 the female sex, to attend his sermons. The greatbject of his dicourses was. to rouse to acts of benefi-fnce : and as he had instituted a charitable seminaryGeorgia, he was strenuous in his exhortations to theANECDOTE OF WHITFIELD,THE FAMOUS PREACHER.22audience to be liberal in giving alms for the support ofthe helpless persons he had there collected together.Among his constant hearers was one Mrs , thewife of a brewer, in a small line of business, who hadsome difficulty to provide funds for carrying on his af¬fairs without embarrassment. He had no time to attendthe daily harangues of this ghostly orator; nor was hemuch pleased with the time his wife spent on these ee- [casions, and far less with the demands she sometimesmade upon him for money to be given for charitable 'purposes. This diversity of opinion between the man |tand wife sometimes produced family discord: Andwhile the lady believed the divine was little less thanan angel from heaven, the husband considered him as: rno better than a thief or a pick-pocket, who, underfalse pretences, induced simple people to throw away ;■upon others, the means that were necessary for the; f!subsistence of their families: nor was he, when heatedin the contest, and chagrined at times for want of mo- ; •ney, at all times scrupulous in expressing without re-'iserve his opinion of this supposed saint. The wife, iwho was of a warm disposition, though not destitute of :sense at bottom, was much irritated at these reflec¬tions, and thinking they proceeded from worldly-mind- ?edness of her husband, felt a strong inclination to in- Jdulge her own propensity to benevolence by everymeans that should fall in her way. To get moneyfrom her husband avowedly for this purpose, she knew i'was impossible; but she resolved to take it when sheicould find an opportunity for that purpose. While shewas in this frame of mind, her husband, one morningwhile he was writing at his desk, was suddenly calledaway, and, intending to return directly, did not closhis desk. His wife thought this too favourable an op¬portunity to be missed; and opening the scruitoirwhere she knew the money was kept, she found abouttwenty-five guineas, which the husband had providedto pay for some barley he had lately bought. Fromthis she took out ten pieces, and left every thing else as: ibefore: nor did the husband, bn his return, take anyctaotice of it.She was now very anxious to get this money proper-|!y disposed of, and with that view, dressed herself inigreat haste: and having wrapped the pieces in a bitof paper, she took them in her hand to go out; but ashe passed a mirror, she observed something about heread dress that required to be adjusted, and puttinghe money on a bureau beneath the mirror, she spent aittle time in making the necessary adjustments; andrecollecting she had omitted to give some necessary di-tjrections before she went out, she stepped hastily intoJ ithe kitchen for that purpose, without taking up the mo-jney. Just at this nick of time the husband came intoihe room, and seeing something on the top of the bu-ireau, took it up to examine it, and seeing what it was,'immediately conjectured what was the truth, With-tlout saying a word, however, he took out the gold, andUput an equal number of halfpence in its stead, leavinghe paper, to appearance, as he found it, and went outagain. The wife, having heard her husband go out ofdie room, was in great fear that he had discovered hertreasure, and returned with great anxiety to seek for it;but seeing it happily just as she left it, she hastilywnatched it up, without looking at it, and went directly|i.o the lodgings of Mr Whitfield to dispose of it.j When she arrived, she found him at home—and anappy woman was she! Having introduced herself,Dy telling him how much she had been benefited by his.nous instructions, &c. which he returned with a readynoliteness, she expressed her regret that she had it notj n her power to be as liberal' to his poor orphans as sheI -ould wish; but she hoped he would accept in goodpart the m:te she could afford to him on their accounts24and with many professions of charitable dispositions,and thanks for the happiness she had derived from at¬tending his discourses, she put the money into his hand,and took her leave. Mr Whitfield, in the mean time,putting the mondy into his pocket without looking atit, made proper acknowledgments to her, and waitedon her to the door.He was no sooner, however, alone, than he took itout to examine the contents, and finding it only cop¬per—and comparing the sum with the appearance ofthe person who gave it, he instantly imagined it musthave been given with intention to affront him; andwith this prepossession on his mind, he hastily openedthe door, and called the lady back, who had not as yetgot to the bottom of the stairs. This summons sheinstantly obeyed. On her return, Mr Whitfield, as¬suming a grave tone and stern manner, told her, thathe did not expect she could have presumed to offer toaffront him : and, holding out the halfpence, asked herwhatshe could mean by offering such apaltry complimentas that ? The paper, and recollecting that she had of«ten heard him called a cheat and impostor, immediate¬ly suspected that he himself had put the halfpence inplace of the gold, and made use of that pretext to ex¬tort more from her, fell upon him bloodily, telling himshe had often heard him called a swindler and a rascal,but until now she had never believed it. She was cer¬tain she had given him ten red guineas out of herhands, and now he pretended he had got only as manyhalfpence; nor did she leave him until she had givenhim a very full complement of abuse- She then wenthome in a great hurry; and had a much better opin¬ion of her husband’s discernment and sagacity ever af¬terwards. He kept the secret; and until her dyingday, she made a good wife to him ; nor ever went afcfter field-preachers of any sort.FINIS.