FUN UPON FUN:r\ rA t rr Cl (I 'll T JT rkl LI'T'A j «4AjXfiLifi will AORliEPERt ii a: t a i i. <» at.IN TWO PARTS.WITH A SELECTIONOFf/i) i • >X11*1' I 7: . ft1! ! Pfi V f )<;A’ ' :tj ^ IiaU12 E ItTAl f A5¥EC©©TES.■.VLTJ’l WOW MU'!THE MEUUY TRICKSII (>OFLEPER THE TAILOR..flOJIIAT IITLeper’s father lived in a village about sixmiles from Glasgow, and died when he washut very young ; he left a widow and threechildren, two daughters and a son ; Leperbeing the youngest, vvasgieatly idolized byhis mother, who was a good soft-naturedwoman, very industrious, and followed thebleaching of cloth.As Leper grew up he grew a very mis¬chievous boy, playing many tricks on theneighbourhood, such as tying cats to dogs’tails, breaking hens' legs, stopping peoples*lums, or chimney-tops ; so that his poormother was sadly vexed with complaintsagainst him.To get him kept from mischief she pre¬vailed with a tailor to take him an appren¬tice; he settled, and was yeiy peaceable forsome time, until he got as much of his trade fon his finger ends as he might pass for ajourneyman, and then he was indifferentwhether he staid with his master or not ;his mistress gave him but very little meat ywhen he wrought at home, so he liked bestto be in other houses, where he got meatand diversion,Leper being resolved on revenge againsthis mistress tor her thin kail, no kitchen,and little bread ; for though flesh was boiledinthe pot none for poor Leper and his master,but a little bit on Sundays, and all the boneswere kept and put in the pot, to make thebroth through the week. Leper perceivedalways when she took offjthe put, she turned;her back and took out the flesh, and set iton a shelf in her own bed-ioom; one nightafter work, he steals out a pan, cuts a pieceof fLsh out of a dead horse, and then goesto a lime kiln, and boils it ; next day hismaster being from home, his landla ly andhim being in the house, after she had set ofthe pot as usual, and taken out her bit ofgood beef, he goes out for some time andthen comes in, saying, the ministers lass iswishing to see you, to go directly and speakto her mistiess, Off she goes in all haste,Leper runs and takes away her bits of goodmeat, and lays down hifs horse flesh; andknowing site would return in a passion, andsit down with a soss in her cushion chair, asshe used, he takes a large pin, and staps itstraight through the cushion, with its headon the chair and the point to her backside.■So in she comes in a rage, and down shea sits with all her weight on the pin point,4and she roars out murder! murder ! for shewas sticket in the a—e: the neighbourscame running in, and Leper went out withhis bit of good beef leaving the wives todoctor his landlady’s doup as they pleased ;he still denied the doing of it, and his masterbelieved it might happen accidently, butthe houdie was very oft to be had before itwas got hale again ; and his landlady byeating of the horse beef, took such a loath¬ing at flesh, that Leper and his master gotall the beef ever after, and his landladyturned one of the kindest mistresses a pren¬tice could wish for.There was a neighbour wife on whomLeper used to play tricks sometimes, forwhich she came and complained to his mas¬ter, and had him severely beaten severaltimes, Leper resolved to be revenged onher, so one night he came to the backsideof the house, (no one being in but herself)and took up a big stone, and runs along therough wall with all his strength, which roar¬ed like thunder in the inside of the house,and frighted the wife so, that she thoughtthe house was tumbling down about her ears,and she ran out and sat down at a distance,looking every minute when the house wouldfall down, till her husband came home andpersuaded her to go in, to whom she toldthe above story : ‘ bout tout, daft tapie,* saidf) 5he, ‘ the house will stand these hundredyears.* Leper knowing they were both in,comes and plays the same trick over again,which also frightened thegoodman so much,that he cried out—‘run Maggy, run, formy heart plays pitty patty.* And theywould not lodge in the house any more, tillthe masons convinced them of its suffi¬ciency.There was another neighbour who had asnarling cur dog, which bit Leper’s leg;Leper resolved to be revenged on the dog,and so one night he catches the dog, andcarries him to the kirk, where the rope of thebell hung on the outside, so with his garterhe tied the dog’s fore foot to the rope, andleft him hanging; the dog struggling to gettree set the bell a ringing, which alarmedthe whole village, every one cried out ‘ won¬derful fire ! wonderful fire ! the devil is ring¬ing the bell.* When they saw the blackcoiley hang at the rope, I trow it set theminister and all the people to their prayers :but I .eper fearing he would be detected byhis garter, came to the minister’s side, andasked the reverend gentleman what was thematter; indeed, my bairn, said he, ’tis thedeil ringing the kirk bell; says Leper, I’llgo and see him, for I never saw the devil;the minister ciied stop the mad laddie, butLeper ran and loosed the dog-, crying it*s^ 6onrf- f + ir j jsuch a man’s do<’, which had the rope in itsteeth; they all cried out, ‘the deil’s i’ thecur, the deil’s i’ thedog.’thentook upstonesand felled poor colley, and the devil got theblame of making the dog ring the bell.—This spread Leper’s fame, for being one ofthe wisest and most courageous tailors thatwas in all the kingdom ; and many shakingtheir heads, said, ‘it was a pity he was atailor, but a captain or general of" an army,as the devil could not fear him.’After this a farmer in the neighbourhoodhearing the fame of Leper, how he hadfrighted the deil frae being a bellman, sentfor him to an alehouse, and drank with himvery heartily, and told him he was sadlyborne down by a spirit of jealousy againstbis wife: and a suspicionofherbeingtoofreewith a servant lad be bad before ; and if hewould keep it a secret and learn him to find itout, be would give his mother a load of meal,to which Leper agreed, so he gave the poorsupposed cuckold instructions how to behaveiSo home he goes, and f’eins himself very sickand every day worse ansi worse, takingdeath to him ; blesses his three small child¬ren, and charges bis wife not to marryuntil his children could do something forthemselves, this hypocritical woman takes acrying. Aha! marry, she would never mar¬ry ! no no there should never a man lie by/Tomy side, or kiss my lips, after thee, my aindear lamb Johnny. Then he acts the deadman as well as he possibly could, the neigh¬bours were called in, and he’s fairly o‘erseenas the old saying is, before good neigh¬bours. The sorrowful widow made sadlament, wrung her hands and tore her hair.The reverend women about began to dressthe corpse, asked her for a shirt. Ay, ay,said she, he has twa new linen sarfs, andthere is an auld ane in the bottom o’ thekist, that nae body can wear, ony thingsgood enough for the grave ; well, saidthey, we must have some linen for a wind¬ing sheet, a weel, quo’ she, I ha’e twi cuto’ linen i’ the kist neuk, but there's a pareo‘ auld linen sheets, hoi d i‘ the middle,may do well enough, 1 had need to be care-fu‘, Tm a poor widow the day, wi‘threesma‘bairns.Well, the corpse is dressed, and laid on, the tap of the big chest, while neighbourssat by her condoling her misfortune, andhow the funeral raisins were to be provided,' said one the coffin must need be seen aboutfirst. Ay ay, he has some new deals in thebarn, he bought them to make a bed o‘,but we‘11 no break them, there's the auldbarn door, and the caff kist will do wellenough, ony thing's gude enough to gangto the grave wi'; but O quo' she send for£Sandy, ray honest auld servant, and he’llsee every thing' right done ; I’ll tell himwhere he’ll get siller to do ony think wi’,he's the lad that will not see me wrang’d ;then Sandy comes wrying his face, andrubb.ng his eyes. O Sandy, there’s a sailalteration here, and ba a she cries like abitten calf, O sirs, will ye gang a’ butt thehouse till I tell ye what to do; butt theywent, and there she fell a kissing of Sandy,ond said, now, my dear, the auld chatteringghaist is awa and we’ll get our will o’ ither ;be as haining of every thing as ye can, forthou kens it‘s a‘ thy ain ; but the corpse’sister and Some other people coming in, benthey came to see the corpse, lifts up thecloth off his face, and seeing him all in apour of sweat, said heigh he’s a bonny corp,and a lively like colour. When he could nolonger contain himself to crrry on the joke,but up he got among them, a deal of peopleran for it, and his wife cried out, O my deardo you ken me ^ Ay you base jade andwhore, better than ever I did. Jumps onthe floor, gets his staff and runs after Sandy,and catches him in the fields, a little fromthe house;—ate and drank with his sisterand neighbours who came to see his corpse,anil poor Sandy went home with a skin fullof terror, and a sorting of sore bones, took asore fever and died a few days after, so he9got quit of his'cuckolder, and Leper’s mothergot her load of meal.I.eper’s mother was a careful industriouswife, but as the bye-word is, ‘ a working-mother makes a dally daughtei,’ and so ithappened here, for she had two gleakit slutsof daughters, that would do nothing but liein their bed in the morning, till, as the say¬ing is, ‘the sun was like to burn a hole intheir backsides.’ The old woman who wasbleaching some cloth, was very early atwork in the mornings, and Leper’s patiencebeing worn out with the laziness of his twosisters, he resolved to } lay a trick on them,for their reformation, so he goes and gets amortcloth, and spreads it on the bed abovethem, and sends the dead bell through thetown, inviting the people next day at fouro’clock afternoon to the burial of his twosisters, for they had died suddenly ; thisbrought all the neighbouring wives in, whoone after another lifted up the mortcloth,and said, with a sigh, they’ve gone to theirrest, a sudden call indeed! Their aunthearing of this sudden news, came runningi in all haste, and coming where the jades’mither was at work, and was ignorant of thestory, she cries out, Fye upon ye, woman,fye upon ye ! What’s the matter, sister,says she, what's the matter? 1 think youmight let your wark stand for a’e day, when10your daughters are baith lying corpse. Mybairns corpse! 1 am certain they went tobed hale an fair last night. But 1 tellyou, says ihe other, the dead bell has beenthro‘ warning the folks to the burial, thenthe mother cries out, () the vidian ! O thevidian that he did not send me worth — Sothey bo h ran, and the mother as soon asshe entered the house, flies to the bed, cry-ing, O my bairns, my dear bairns; onwhich the sluts rose up in a consternation,to the great suiprise of the behc'Lfers, andthe great moitiflcation of the girls, whothought shame to set their nose out of doors,and to the great diversion of the wholetown.Leper and his master went to a gentle¬man’s house to work, where there was asaucyr house-keeper, who had more ignor¬ance and pride than good sense and man¬ners, she domineered over her fellow servantsin a tyrannical manner. Leper resolved tomortify her pride ; so he finds an ant’s nest,and takes their white eggs, grinds them toa powder, and puts them into the dish hersupper sow ns was to be put in. After shehad taken her supper, as she was coveringthe table, the imnock pow'der began tooperate, and she let a great f— . well doneMargaret, said the Laird, your a— wouldtake a cautioner. Before she got out of the11tchamber door she let fly another crack ;then she ^oes to order her fellow servant togive the Laird his supper, but before shecould give the necessary directions, she gavefire again, which set them all a laughing';she runs into a room herself, and there sheplayed away her one-gun battery so fast,‘ that you v.ould have thought she had beenbesieging the Havannah, 1 he Laird andLady came to hear the fun, they were liketo split their sides at proud Maggy. Sonext morning she left herplace, *o thegreatsatisfact’on of all her fellow servants.PART II.Leper's landlady became very harsh tohis master, and very often abused him ex¬ceedingly sure with her tongue and hands,and always called upon him formoremoneyI and to have all the money in her keeping ;I which Leper was sorry for. It so happen¬ed on a day that the tailor had got a heartydrubbing both with tongue and tongs, thathe pouched his thimble and was going tomake a queen of her : when she saw that,she cried out, O will you leave a poor tenderdying woman. But Leper knowing thecause of her ill nature better than his masterL      12did, advised him to take her on a fine day,like a mile out of town, and give her a walk,and he would stay at home and study aremedy for her disorder. —Away they bothgoes ; but as she was always complained lorwant of health, and that she was very weak,she cried frequently out, O! ’tis a cryingsin to take a woman in my condition out o’era door. During their absence, Leper goesand searches the bed, and below the bolstergets a bottle of rare whisky, of which hetakes a hearty pull, and then pisses in it tomake it up; gets a halfpenny worth ofsnuff, and puts it in also, shakes all to¬gether, and so sets it in its place again.—Home they came, and she was exceedinglydistressed as a woman could be, and criedout, it was a horrid thing to take her out ofthe house. The tailor seeing her so bad,thought she would have died, ran as fast ashe could for a dram, but she in her hypo¬crisy pretended she could not take it, andcalled on him to help herto-bed, into whichhe lays her; she was not well gone whenshe fell to her bottle, taking two or threehearty gluts, when she roars out murder,I*m poisoned, I’m poisoned. Locking andpurging began, and the neighbours werecalled in: she lays her blood upon poorLeper, and tells how such an honest womanbrought her a’e bottle as another was done,13/and the murdering loon had stolen it andput in a bottle of poison instead of it. Lep¬er took to his heels, but was pursued andcarried before a justice of the peace, wherehe told all he bad done, which made thejustice laugh heartily at the joke ; and thetailor’s wife was well purged from her feign¬ed sickness, laziness, and cursed ill nature ;for always when she began to curl her nosefor the future, the tailor had no more to saybut Maggy mind the bottle.Leper was working with a master-tailorin Glasgow, who hungered his men ; andone morning, just when breakfast was seton the table, in comes a gentleman to tryon a suit of clothes; the master beingobliged to rise desired the lads to say thegrace themselves. Every one refused it,and put it to his neighbour, till Leper un¬dertook it, and said with an audible voice,that the stranger gentleman might over¬hear him as follows:—‘ Och, booh ! we area parcel of poor beastly bodies, and we areas beastly minded ; if we do not work weget nothing to eat; yet we are always eat¬ing and always fretting ; singing and halfstarving is like to be our fortune; scartingsand scrapings are the most of our mouth¬fuls. We would fain thank thee for ourbenefactors are not worthy the acknow-ledgingj—hey, Amen.’ The gentleman1ftlaughed til! his sides were like to burst, andgave Leper half'a-crown to drink.Leper was not long done with his ap¬prenticeship till he set up for himself, andgot a journeyman and an apprentice, wascoming into very good business, and hadhe restrained his roguish tricks, he mighthave done very well. He and his lads be¬ing employed to work in a farmer's house,where the housewife was a great miser, andnot very cleanly in making meat, andsneeveled through her nose greatly whenshe spoke.— In the morning, when she wentto make the potage, she made a fashion ofwashing the pot, which to appearance seem¬ed to him to have been among the first thathad been made ; tl en sets it before the firetill she went to the well, in which timeLeper looking into it, sees two great holesstapped wi' clouts, he takes up his goose,and holds it as high as his head, then letsit drop into the pol, which knocked out thebottom of it; presently in comes the wifewith the water, and pours it into the pot,which set the fireside all in a dam, for stillas she poured in it ian out: the wife beingshort sighted, or what thev call sand blind,looks into the pot, holds up both her handsand cries, ‘ Lose preserve me, sirs, for thegrip atween the twa holes is broken.' SaysLeper, the pot was old enough ; but do you15tnot ken the tailors‘s pottage is heavier thanother mens. Indeed lad I believe it, butthey say ye’re a warlock; its Wednes¬day all the world o’er, and a waefu‘ Wed¬nesday to me indeed, my pot might ha’eserved me this fifty year, a sae wed ite’en.This sport diverted Leper and his ladsthrough the day ; and after supper, know¬ing he was to get some dirty bed, as thecows and the people lived all in one apart¬ment, he choose rather to go home ; andknowing the moon was to rise a little aftermidnight, he sat by the fire, told them manya fine story to drive away the time, andbade the wife make the bed to see how it,might be ; to save candle she made it inthedaik, directly on the floor behind wherethey sat, shaking down two bottles of straw;a calf which chanced to be lying on thatplace, and which the wife do not notice wascovered with the straw, and the bed clothesspead over it. The most of the family be¬ing in bed, the wife told them to go to bedalso, but Leper knowing of the calf, saidI’ll make my bed come to me, on which thewife began to pray for herself and all thatwas in the house ; so up begets his elwand,anti givts a stroke (in the bed which causedthe brute to rise, and not seeing where togo, it fell a crying and turned round, whichiQset the whole house a roaring out murder intheir own tongue. The goodwif’e ran tothe bed above the goodman, and the wholefamily cried out, not knowing what it was:but Leper and his two lads whipt off theblankets, and the brute ran in among therest unperceived ; then Leper lighted a can¬dle, and all of them got out of bed, paidLeper for his work, and more if he pleased,and begged him to go away, and takethe devil with him. So home he went,but never was employed by that wife anymore.Leper had a peal of the best customersboth in town and country; so one time hehad occasion to go to the palish if Inchinan,to make a wedding suit for a gentleman,after they were finished he desired drinkmoney for his lads, which the gentlemanrefused: Leper resolved to be even withhim, so he goes to the hay loft where thegroom slept, ami takes his stockings,breeches, and jacket, sewed them together,and stuffs them full of hay ; makes a head,puts a rope about the neck, and hangs it ona tree, opposite to the laird’s window ; thengoes to the lair 1 and tells him that hisgroom had hanged himself, and that if hewould open his window he would see himhanging; the laird was struck with aston¬ishment, and knew not what to do; Leper17advises him to bury him privately. Thelaird said he had not a servant he couldtrust, so begged Leper to do it. Leper re¬fuses, till the laird promises him a load ofmeal, then Leper pulls out all the hay outof the groom‘s clothes ; goes and gets hisload of meal, and sends it to Glasgow,—then goes to the groom, and says, lad thymaster is wanting thee. So the lad in allhaste runs to see what his master wanted,the laird no sooner saw him open the door,then he cried out, Avoid thee Satan, avoidthee Satan ! The lad says, what’s the mat¬ter? Did not you hang yourstlf this morn¬ing? Lord forbid ! said the lad. The lairdsays if thou be an earthly creature, takethat tankard and drink : which he did ; thensays he to his master, Leper called me up,and said you wanted me in all haste. Ho,ho, said the laird, I find out the story now,if 1 had Leper l would run my sword thro‘him ; but Leper before that was gone forGlasgow with his meal.Leper was in use to give his lads theirSunday’s supper, which obliged him to stayfrom the kirk in the afternoon, he havingneither wife nor servant maid ; so one Sun¬day afternoon as he was cooking his pot,John Mucklecheek, and James Puff-and-blaw, two civileers, having more zeal thanknowledge, came upon him, and said.—ISWhat’s the matter, sir, you go not to thekirk ? Leper replied, I’m reading my bookand cooking my pot, which I think is awork ot necessity. Then says the one tothe other, dont answer that graceless fellowwe’ll make him appear before his betters ;so they took the kail pot, and puts a staffthrbugh the bools, and beat sit to the clerk'schamber. Leper who was never at a lossfor invention, goes to the Piineipal of theCollege's house, nobody being at home buta lass roasting a leg of mutton ; Lepersays, my dear, will you go and bring mea drink of ale, and I’ll turn the spit tillyou come back. The lass was no soonergofie, than he runs a way with the leg ofmutton, woieh served his lads and him fortheir supper. W hen the Principal camehome, he was neither to baud nor to bindhe was so angiy ; so on Mondy he goesand makes a complaint to the Lord Provost,who sends tu o officers for Leper, who cameimmediately. My Lord asked him how hedared to take away the Principal’s mutton ?Leper replied, how dared your civileers totakeaway my kail pot? I’m sure there isless sin in making a pot full of kail, thanroasting a leg of mutton, law makersshouldnot be law breakers, so I demand justice onth ; civileers. 1 he Provost asked him whatjustice he would have ? says he, make them19carry the pot back again ; and to the Prin¬cipal, a leg of mutton will not make himand me fall out; so they were forced tocarry the pot back again, and 1 <eper cause lthe boys to huzza after them to their dis-“9.1 “Iw 1 *1W a°lThere was a baiber who always plagueLeper, and called him prick-the-louse.—Leper resolved to be even with him, so hegoes and buys three sheep heads, and sendsfor the barbei-, and told him, that therewrere three fine Southland gentlemen justcome to his house, which much wanted tobe shaved, and he assured him lie would re¬ceive sixpence for each one of them —thisgood new's made the shaver send for adram ;—Leper was still praising them forquiet good natured gentlemen. So Lepertakes him to the bed where the sheep headslay covered, and desired him to awakenthem for they woiild not be angry, or sayan ill word to him, the barber lifts thecover-ing and sees the sheep heads, runs outcursing and swearing, and Leper cryingafter him, sheep head barber.The barber resolved to be revenged onLeper, so when he was shaving Mess John,he tells him that Lcper was the diurkenestfellow in the parish. So xVless John warnshim to the session ; Leper comes and says,what do you want with me, Sir? Come20away Leper, says Mess John, I hear a badreport of you ; me sir, I am sure they werenot my friends that told you that.—Indeed,1 am informed you are a drunkard.—I adrunkard, you have not a soberer man inyour parisli •, ston sir, I will tell you howI lead my life,—in the morning I take achoppin of ale and a bit of bread, that I callmy morning ; for breakfast I generallytake a herring and a chopping of ale, for Icannot sup brose like my lads; the herringmakes me dry, so at eleven hours I take apint, and sometimes three choppins; atsupper 1 take a bit of bread and cheese anda pint, and so go to bed. Mess John says,its extravagant sir, its excessive drinking,1 allow you one half ot it lor a quarter of ayear. Says Leper, I’ll try it, sir. andcome back and tell you. At the end of thequarter he draws out his account, anil goesto Mess John, who was sitting with hiselders in the Session-house, and says; sirI have a demand on you; on me, sir:yes, on you, sir; don’t you remember youallowed me so much drink for a quarter of ayear, and I want the money. Am I to payyour reckoning, sir. You allowed it, andif you wont pay it I’ll lake you before theProvost. The elders advised him to payit or he would be affronted ; so Leper gotthe money. When he was at the door,21/he says, Sir, will you stand another quar¬ter : Get away, says Mess John, and don’ti trouble me. Leper says, 1 am sure youmay, for I am always twopence to yourpenny.THE END.ANECDOTES.INCONVENIENCE OF A PE I'l HON.A reverend Gentleman, when visitinghis parishoners, was in one house first sal¬uted with the growling of a dog, and after¬wards by the cheering voice of a female,d—ing the dog for his ill-breeding. Headvanced and enquired for the master of thehouse, “what do ye want vvi’ that?” saidI the female. “ We are wishing to see him,”said the icverend gentleman, “will you beso good as bring him to us?” “ I’ll gangnae sic an errand,” said she ; “ ye maygang down to the market yoursel’, an’ ye’llsee him there: they're thrang killin’ theday. But what are you wanting wi’ Pate,if a body might speir.” “ This is the min-1 ister,” saiil the ehler who accompanied him,“he is wishing to have some conversationwith Peter, and to put a petition.” “ Apetition ! a petition !” exclaimed the ma-eaAm Wtron, “ ye‘ll put up nae petition here; thehouse is wee eneugh already, an1 wha do yethink's gaun to be fashed wi‘ masons an‘wrights an‘a‘ thae clamjamfray about theirhoust ? Faith no—the de\il a petition willbe putten up in this house, aslangs am in‘twe're gaun to flit at Whitsunday, so ye maycome then an' put up as mony petitions asye like.”DUKE OF BUCCLEUGH.Henry, Duke of Buccleugh was greatlybeloved by his numerous tenantry. One ofhis small tenants, Jamie Howie by name,had a son about four years of age, who,having heard much of a ore; t Duke ofBuccleugh, was verv anxious to see him.Honest Jamie, in a few day s, was honouredwith a visit from the Duke, when Jamie,doffing his bonnet, and making a reverentialbow, says, “O my Lord! ye maunna beangry wi‘ me, but it's God's truth, myLord, there's a daft we cailant o' mine thateanna rest, nor let others restnighlnorday;he has ta'en in his head .sic a notion o' seein'what like ye are, Gudesake, my Lord, 1(b'nna think lie lias ony yedea ye are a manat a' but some far awa, outlandish, ower seacreature.” The Duke mightily tickeledwith this fancy, desired Jamie to bring theyoungster into his presence forwith. Out23comes thejuvcnile inquisitor, with hit fingerin his mouth, and cautiously reconnitres thepersonage before him. At last quoth theurchin, “ Can ye soom ?” “ No, my littlefellow,” replied his grace, “I cannasoom.”“Can ye flee?” “No, I canna flee.”“ Weel, man. for as muckle’s ye‘re f vvadnagie ane o‘ my father's dukes for ye, for theycan baith soom an‘ flee.’4A BANE TO PIKE.; 1 j.iSome boys diverting themselves in oneof the streets of Edinburgh, observed cn adoor, a brass plate with A1—x—nd—rGuthrie, W. S. engraved on it. In theirdivei sion, they broke a pane of glass in oneoi the windows, upon which Mrs. Guthrieand the maid sallied forth and siezed one ofthe delinquents. “ Ye young rascal, what’sye’er name ?” says the lady, “ Saundy,” re¬plied the boy. “ What’s ye’re ither name?”—“ Guthrie.”—'• Wha’s ve’re mither ?”—“ My mither sells burd’s cages.”—44 Whardoes she live?”—“ P the Patter Raw.”—44 Wha’s y e’re father?*'—“ i rlihna ken.”—“ Do ye no ken ye‘re father?”—“ Na !he ne‘er comes but when it4s dark, an4 nae-body kens bit my mitlier.44 Upon hearingthis, t! e laily in a passion let go her victim,and running into the room where her hus¬band was sitting, fell a-scolding him like afury about his infidelity towards her. Theyoung rogue laughed heartily at the successof his fraud, and turning to his companions,said to them, “ I think I’ve gi'en her a baneto pike!”SEEING ONE DRUNK.The late Rev. Mr. , of D ,Aberdeenshire was fond of his friend and abottle; he sacrificed so often and so freelyto the jolly god, that the presbytery couldno longer overlook such proceedings, andsummoned him before them to answer forhis conduct.—One of the elders, and con-stantcompanion in his social hours, was citedas a witness against him. “ Well, John(says one of the presbytery to the elder) didyou ever see the Rev. Mr. C the worseof drink?” “Weel a wyte no ; I've monya time seen him the better 0‘t, but l ne‘ersaw him the war o‘t.” “ But did you neversee him drunk?” “That’s what I’ll ne’ersee, for before he be half slockened, I’m ayeblind fu\”FINIS.I