A N/r.vrur., DE3PEP.ATE and BLOODY BATTLE,FOR THER R E E C H E S.That was fought lift' 9 sturdvf night, b?t ■uteri dlovely duple, wao have hen. mirrr'l i vh'ftelortnigKr, which ended not withou Blood h?I?ding ; together with, the article* of "agreedienland pacification between them after the battlewas all over.Paxer fQJjT J W now Dorothy, where have youbeen to day ? *Dorothy- 'AThat’s that to thee thou bold Fac’dcuckold Rogue. • jPeter, liow now Dorothy, what’s the matterwith you what, are you drunk. ?Dor. How drunk 3 rrah. give me fuch ano- 'ther word, and t’ll make thy tace ring agaiatl jtne wall, thou brazen Fac’d rafcal anu as thoulikes that flap oz the cht'ps, lo prates to me thenext time.Pet. How now, Dorothy, what’s the matter iwith you now : what cio vo t begin your old ,nicks again ? tru y Dame; l f:orn to take it atyour hands -\s * hive done, come take you that,you drunken Quean.D\>r due you coward'y Rogue, is this themanhood thou haft gotiea to itnke a womanthat Fa? noth ng in her hand ?Per. C me. come, Dorothy, that matter/hallhe amended ; here take thy rock I am lure thouhas not ufed it this many a day, except it \ra*to break my head.( 2 )Dor. Come you prating knave, are voupreaching now giv-* me but hold of that Hick,and f'll be tby cferk to fay Amen to your Cuc¬kold's e?p by and by. take you that; Sirrah, ay,Lur; that too. goohnan rafcai, for eating mf])i;c of cufl tjd bfb night ; i have not forgot it,yet l warrant thte.Pet. No thou brazen fac’d flat, nor have lfnigotttn fihce vou came home drunk andbroke my head wi h the tongs for nothing hut >afkiiig where you had been ; therefore t-ke you *that vou drunken whore, ay and that too.Dot. 7 thou rogue, wilt thou murder me, 4thou bloody minded villain but take my word,I will be even with thee by and bj, it thou wiltiet me take my wind a little.Pet. Nay, thoi> brazen fac'd quean, HI keepyou warm, for you (hall not get cold under myhands, no. my medicines will not work if youget cold.Dor Wolf wedl Sirrah I will make youdearly pay for this anon lor S tell thee truly, lfcorn to be beholden to fuch a louff rogue asthou art f no iirrah ; it l die ie thy debt, the De¬vil take thy bones No, no, you brazen fac’d )xafeal dll pay thee while I have one penny in jmy purfe or one fpark of mettle in my limbs, jand that thou (halt find before i have done with Ithte, and £o change me that groat thou rogue: 1why. how now you rafeal hold up your head; :What, are you diunk :Pet. No ^ou whore I am not drunk though ■you have knockt me dawn : no I will allure thee .tha’ 1 mn able to take ihe other bout yet, thou -lhalt fiiid Peter has fom: ftrength left ia him :( 3 ^yet; thcug;h you tdd the Taylor he Ts'as no man*nor had any mettle in him, when he was killingthee at Ifl'ngton town end, thou whore,Don Out then bafe icwardly rogu thnufhewell thy breeding like a knave as thou art,knowing thy wife to have but one fault andthou like an impudent rogue to cifcover it :Have at you once again for that trick, l thinkI have met with thee now.Pet. Met with me now, Dorothy. I hope yonwill find before we part, that you have nut withme and with your match too .• for 1 remembernot long ftnce you came home drunk, with yourclothts all dirt and mire as if it had been afow, that had been wa loving in the mire, inJune and ( but wallowing in t e mire, ina fail : and you prdently toox the ladle, out ofihe pot as it was boiltng oeer the fire a d or -feem head with it, and that you lhaii pay tor now,tak ’ ovv w nd.D ir Sp tre me not Simh for ta^e my word,[ will no? p ne thee, 1 warrant thee am ableto gi* e thee ban.'- h r bang yet and that youfndl f>on fi d: take you tn't you cuckoldyH v that is for tating nty pig's head t amCure yom fauce is good.Pet. D ir thy mufl we have the,other boutfor it take my word if thou got bur firtle ofthe pig’s head, you lhail have enough of lauce,for in ,eed l do not care fo much for you (auceas I do for the meat therefore, pray you Hayand take f'ome of your fauce again, nay, butDorothy, turn come about, what would youlam be gone now, 1 have another accompt totall up with you yet before you go.( 4 >Dor. Have you ^irrah : N& no, I would I; vei a cow-'you to tbii k th^t \ fcorn to be courtedard yet, 10, Sirrah, cra(k sue that nut.Ptt. Ptx take thee rrd thy nuts,too, ii they beall (uch as thcfe, for they Igs de<s'ilith hard.Dor. No, no Sirrah, ycu are J ccived. thefebe but eafy ones. I have an s. i ni c n cl nut forthee yet O but «'will melt in thy meu h like ahoney pear, faith.Pet. Ay hut the devil' take th.ee and thy al-mond.ruts, if hefe-be they : dm it is no nuuterI Avi!l give thee a oifh of choak ptms, svhichwhich wii1 do ths e a ^ reat deal of goi d, and as youlike thefe you lliall have mote, for i have anewfor tir e.■ Dor. Ay, but” Peter, hold thy hand a littleand Itt me fpeak to thee, I pray thee, tell mewhat is the reafnii that thou doll sbufe thy wifein this mahr er.Pet. O Dorothy, to thy H inder I can verywell anlvoer. for this is but a Hander, to layi abufe you, for I fcorn to abufe ray wife. D Do-ro-hy, 1 do but pay my debts.Dor. Your debts with a vengeance, may thede\ii take luch payntahers, that pay their debts©kh blowsPet. Apren. Dorothy, but'« thick ti e devilwill not be trcukled with fmh a ope as thou art,I v.iHi he would, he would do,me a got d turn.Dcr Why thou brazen fac’d retterdamcuckoldy rogue, deft thou tl ink l am t o ilfor ihe dtv 1 no rupee, l.cftie i go to the devil,1 v.ill lave EPothtr lout with thee and that(eon too, 1 wiii teach )c u Sirrah to afhgn jourv\iie to the devil, fly Ltais j hold, held, tbcu( 5 >cucko>‘y coward, ij tlut ihy manhood to fttikenow, when thcu fee hi ray cudgel in peec.-s.Pet. No, no Dciothy, you Hull have sno-tlicr if you p!eale.Dor. Another rogue, ay and another too ; forbefore I will \hld to thee ail the cudgels in thetown lhall fail me : Sirrah., I would have you to ^think, l am not done with you vet, 1 will war¬rant ye.Pa, Take this iiw'e muA have, ths o’.her'botit.Dor. I’he other bout logueay, and the other: bout too : doll thou tltink to have thy will of me'■ T' ith thy great words; no, Sirrah, it fisali neverbe faid that l will yield to thee white ‘there is‘ ^*e in my body, or at kail whilA btm dble tohold up ray cudgel, and fo take the# tfurt;Pet Lay on as hard as thou can'll, thou1 bold brazen fac’d flut. I femn to ifc thee anyfavour, and if thou look for any at my hands,I thou may til be deceived except thou mend thyI manners ; what, have you forgot lines 1 foundyou and the pear monger in the cellar, a killingfor a peck tf pears : and when 1 but afeeu youwhat you were a doing ; you up with the thr-.efooted ffool, and broke my note, and I am lureit was but the trick cf a whore.Dor. -urrah, it is not a broken nofe nor abroken head th?,t Ihtril ferve your turn, lortake^ my word 1 co not intend to leave thee onewd ole bone in tfy &in, therefore hum at ail, hit! cr irafs for a cow-heel, back, legs, fides, arms,E ct cny place. 1 cat e not.| ^ Pet. Doiothy! O daintily done;'play thy wo kijtncu m3\eit come to get thy wages anon, fo ls|Kiay hoiL uli i have not a whole bone indeedj( 6 \nay faith5 mlftrefs, have with you, if you Tro buta mile a day, iM follow, f cannot endure this.©or. Sirrah, if you cannot endure this thouhadft better lay down thy cudgel, and yield thybreeches to nie. and (land a't my mercy and.itfhall be never the worfe for thee.Pet. How. yield the breeches to time : thenthe devil take Peter for a fco' ; 1 can have noworfe a life than 1 have, if thou can'll: win thebreeches, then thou fhall wear them ; thereforeprovide thyfelf for another fingle bout or elfeown me to be thy tnafb r.Dor. My matter >irrah, no 1 fcorn to yieldwhile I have one drop of blood in me. t wouldhave thee to know care as iittle for a brokenhead as thou, ther fore have at that fiery nofeof thine, i’ll make it as flat to thy face as thepicture upon a fix pence.Pet. Hold, Dorothy I fee that I mutt leaveoff my own trade and fall to rhe tanners tradea while and help thee to mn that whore's hideof your's a Iktle better, you fee 1 but rally withyou and you care nor; but now have at you witha new ftipply take my word this bout fhail payfor all borrow l will either wm tne horfe, orlofe the fkddle ; therefore make tnee reauy anddo not fay that l come upon thee cowardly.Dor I am as reacy as thou, i warrant thee,and that thou fhalt find— O manfully done.Pet. Stand off you w hore, don’t come fo nigh.Dcr. For what you cuckoldy rogue . what beyou afraid of your horns they be not fo.little,but they may be able to bide a bang.Pet. i’ll bang thy whore's hide to be doing.Dorothy. Murder, murder, good hulband.( 7 >i lold ?hv I am kill’u, T am kill’d good huf-bmd torgive and l will bs the belt wifethat ever Uy by mm’s fide.Pet Ws, v^s y u fell me fo but truft you,and > hai as good hang you, for when youcome home drunk* then you will be in vour ina-jeitv igain : t en comes out vou rogue at everyword then the tongs the ladle, the brafs ran-dfedi'k m^v mull fly asout mv ears and fometimes *he three toot'd fiool mult comb my head ;fait * ’ fhoughr a piv day would c®me at lafi:.Dor. No goo^ huiband take my word thistime and upon rnv lite * will be as good as myword whatever you would have me to do iv ill do it.I’ef Veil, Dorothv. feffing you give me fomai'y goo'1 words, l will try you once more onthis condition, tint is to {land to the articleswhich (‘tall he here laid before you.Dor, Truly hufband whatsoever you wouldhave me to lay or do I wid do it.I Pet. Veil then, Dorothy, l will forgive thee,then, fiTft, down on thy knees, and alk meforgivennefs Dor. 1 will good h alb and, torgiveme. and 1 will never do fo any more.Pet. Veil Dorothy, upon the conditionswhich T will here relate, I fhall forgive you.Dor Iideed, Peter, let it be what you will, Iam content to do it.The Articles.Pet. Come, hold up your hand. Dor. I will Peter,Pet. I1 irft if all will you never be drunk again.Dor. No Indeed never while I live.Pet Nor let the taylor ever kifs you,Ibr, No indeed hufband, never while I liveJtthhoPoao;y-a ifcloidcyobuLr s >Tfl do tuns m: the rogue cuzsn’cl me withi'iriish^lf cro -n. v-Pet. Nor will yctPnev r -break my headthe ladle again. Dor No im v.. d I’lLburn u ftritPet Nor will you ney-r t-reak my head wiJthe hiafs candleflick, as you did Saturday iD ir No indee.i l wifi not.-Pet ’ N >r rievsr let tf.e pear, monger kifs youD r. No inde d n v:t while ; live*, for tinr cue cozen’d.tne with roit/n pears.Pet. Nor'-w-ifl yhu never break my nofe wit!the three footed Uool. as you did that d .y.I)ot. No truly hufbmd t will not and it yotsw! 11 be p'eafed lo for-give me what is pail, £ willprove the bed wife th t ever man married.Pet. Come wife, on thi.fe conditions I wilforgive you f.> come and give me a kifs. amwe will be friends. Dor. wuth all my heart.Pet. Come wife, fetch us two pots of bee?and let us drink for joy of our agreement.Dor. With ail heart. So the beer beincome, favs Peter drink to me, love, on this bargain and i’il ling you a fong to drive care awajP E T E R.Com? rr.v dear D^ro'hy give me your hand,Fro r. laencefori 0 m love we’ll for ever agree,And if that you true to your promife do Hand,t here’s nvne unon earth that more happy wdl be.D O R O V H Y. 'My dear loving !n;fb ir,d l give you- my hand,:Vhh my hearty thinks for your k-indnefs to me., |An-.l while I have 1 fe to my ptomife Ml Hand,VYith trueitnlltdion, dear htfiband, to th.eFINIS.i