Qflic firanajc and vvonderfuJACCOUNTOf the Wicked Life, and deplorable Death of&lr ALKX\NDER PARKINSONsOtherwife known, by thfe Naaie of,T!ie GOLDEN FARMER,.Who departed this life on June 15. ifySS. but arefeap in his bed 12 hours after his death, to the greatterror and artiazement of all prefent, making confeffioo1 ef many hainbus fins he had been guilty cf during theI! time of his life.Alfo the ihbflancc of aSERMON?Which was preached on the fame occasionby the Rev. Mr Jones.jPah lifted far the Benefit of Mankind*Entered accoitlitig to Oider*Tlie WlcVcil LifV and DeathMr ALEXANDER PARKINSON.His Alexander Paikinfon lived neaEth« parHli of Vain in Rofs-fVire. hathe north of Scotland: lie was commonlyknown by the nanaeof the Golden Farmerfeecftul'e he had always plenty of moneyto Und on fure and great intereft, elpr-«ially on land; but how he came by thearumey no perfon could tell, there werevarious conjedures about it but no per¬fon eould make it out. He had but onefor) living when he took lick at this timewhich was his bail. He alio made a willaccording to law, making bis Ion heir ofall his money Sc effeds, which amountedto i 500 pounds. Sc the next day he diedin great pain: he was wafhed Sc drdlidaccor ding to cullom. Sc remained for 12hours, at which time (bn Sc two other geu-tk nien wasprelentfiting where thelune-rai was to be ordered, he darted up in bedto the great furprife of all prdent. W henihey Gw that the began to run to the door,Itnving who to he out fufl the fonbeing almoft dead with f ar, the father bad themeot br afraid for tho’ laid lie, 1 was dead Iant no \ alive & in my proper fenfe, Othcfights that 1 have feen! fit you down bc-r?'smtiM difburcWn my cnjifcjencp of thofVfin l have been guilty pf duringmy fiufulJife vvhich I repent of when too late O myf n I have ruined my Immortal bull tog/mn fortune fbryott, the ways [took ro get themoney I left you makes mv foul <x heart totremble within me when l think upon it.thefirfl way I took to raife m - lot tune w askilling an Eugli h drover, SctaVingn tooloff him th it hr had to bu) cattle in ti’«Highlands, With the money i bought thegood wiilofthisjlai m, hut not content with,that Ikilledold readymoney ] )hn^burnlhis houle over his hpad for fear of a dilco ve¬ry, yet I was not fatisfjed. By lifts time I hegan to buy up meal and tranfport it to thecommon enemy, or any where 1 could getagreat ju ice 1 began to lay up great (loresat it buying it up in all parts that I couldget it, flopping at no jwice, knowing thatthe poor muff have bread at any rate. Icould not endure the light of a poor per-fon near my houle One day a poor oldf'ailor came to afk charity, I (lruck hit*feveral times with my cane, then let mym fliff dog at him who tore him in feveralplaces foashe died in a few days after in tpoor man’s byre who lived Bear by, &< 4 )Diiricd at th'- espcnce of the partfh; butwoes me I gave nothing but oaths & ira-y>rt cations to them that afkecl me togivemoney to bury Inch a old clog. But thisjs not all my wife died loon after—I hadfojnc time after this iome hnfinefsin Eel-jnburgh, where l got acquainted with a•freditabl* young woman, wlto 1 perfuad-•td to come home with me & be my honfe-iceper. Ihe pleafed me well 1 therefor th®-ught to marry her, but thp devil had toomuch power •xr mp to do that, I promis’dher marriage, giving her prefentsat lame|ime, till I gained my wicked cUlign. Ohad i never feen her, bpt 1 foon becametiied of her. abuling her feveral times ina barbarous manner, till atlali 1 gave hera kicH it proved her death. When he had«nded his dilcovery hecalledlor a vvi it ingtabie&altered his will, leaving hisfon bu£500! and the red to the bank, theinthefttobegiventoihcpoortort ver in the parilk<)i Glenap Win ill theletranlaftions werec nrying on his foil was for making hinnhold ins pe ice, he laid it he died he muftce nie b ick 'gaina fecond time if permitedHe then lent for Mr J mes w'ho caine t*Auim, he then made acwidtilio.i ot ail hU$nsand 'eem^o v<:--y •i^nhevz hr beef;-' ^he ni ght have .>.h'.p}tir ion.- winci: fj re-.i eeived afrg. their mfuuier. and cielirf thepnefl to mak^ ail the parricnlar- t-» diis: affair pub c in hopes it may be a warningto all wh .1 hear orh.st plorable death,that they may leave off their evil ways &turn to the Lord while it is to-day, ltdthey repent when too late: the mdU np< ris now come 1 mpft to my rverhdtiny ha¬bitation. when he laid Writ words he laiddown died. Very remarkable v as theday on \Vhich he was buried tor tliole itaccompanied him to the place of inter¬ment w as like to be d< ffroyed by wind dcrain; <3c what was fidl more remarkable,r.'iien the y came to the gr ave it doled up»& would not receive him' as tlio* he de-ierved b, tier to be hung in c tains than toly among chriftians, \q they were obli¬ged io dig him another.'1 ne Siil>!t u.ce of an excellent Sermonv^rry luitable to the abrrve occaiion.Fr< m Kev. xx 7.And when the thoufuntl years are expire^Satan lhall be iooteil out ofprifon, &c.I is u dnubtf dlv f r mens* fins thatdie prince of darknds is permittedlf 4 > .go np down Idee a roaring lion frrk“is g who m he mav devour, that he prov ids on t'ne Ion is of men; Iris for fin thatGod gives us to fin & reproach, to tafii*Jinets Sc defpair of his mercies, fo ceitairtis it that God never leaves our foul eclip’fjif d under the power of an implacable e*jfnemy, who being an iisriiortal fptrit toofubtle for mortals to contend with, unlelsfupported by the divine alliftance, we araunable to refifi: the temptations which hogilds o’er like a bitter potion, that we mayfiwaMovv them more fectire, & ftudies toflat them to our inclitiation, To the cho¬leric fiery fpirit he repreleut? revengeblood fhed, bold & brave to the fanguine, jcarnal luft Sc luxury to the generous Sc \jovial, to the phlegmaticlazimfs&fl »d),iSc to the melancholy envy and delpiar,We find that hedurft even in prefence ofthe almighty be fo bold as to demand acommiftion to tempt job, & had no doubtprevailed had not the almighty fuftainedhim, as you may read in J bchap ii. naymore tranfeendent than this he did tempteven the Lord his God when he had car¬ried to an exceeding high mountain, andViewed him all the kingdoms of the eartkcc ^lories ttf r.he?H proinifin^togivehinetfit-m if he our Siviour would tail do wnand wordilp him; 5c had a lie immediately(prepared it it had been pdflihle of its tak-ling place; for that continues he, is deli¬vered unto me 5c to wholever 1 vyill 1 giveit ; but there he was refuted with,get thee behind me Satan, toir it is|Writteu-- thou the Lord thy God,and him only {halt thou ferve, Lukeisaii. It St. Paul was endued with(the urm >ft i'pirit of witdonj, which wasuoi proof againfl his temptations withLong prayers and cries, when he lent aintiT nger to buffet him. n thorn in the'll th a-- he hitulelf (tiles it, what can we.pat dare pretend to io thrall a portion ofImmediate inip'ration do to refufc him.|n whom as tne Piahnifl fays, is our hopewhy truly our hope is in the Lord, it isw alone can deliver us from the powert fatan he is cotae to us in great wrathi ecaufe he ha tin b it a fliort time, and is(j implacable An Knsmt to the foullat when his force is b tfieLl, iubtle un-lerminiugs frequen Iv take place. Letss run t;> bo Lfe Ik n temptation?, fo‘ they may not bru:^ irs to fhame ip( 8 )worM nric? encllefs miferv in next—»LiV holil on him that rs nighty, andah3;J to lave to the? ntretmolt all who by ;faith an l true rep n nice draw near tohim* Let us l.ty h 1.1 on the rock ofages, :m I bail I a lure toim lafioh on hismercy an I gob Inets f r he alone candeliver us fro n everLd'ting de.^th, and |defeat tiic deliga> of the deftroyer offoil Is.Had this perfon ma le Go 1 his refugehe h id no no v b m (ud* rui^un !cr healmighty’s v ngeance, tho’ we muff notprelU.n * to limit he mercy ot Go 1 evento lie word o.' (inn as, bur we muft lub-mit them to his will an i plealiire wholezneicies are over all his uoiks.Sometimes we may be tempted forgoo' 1, (h a is th trial of our faiih aii i iparfevei .nice  -Let Us rh-U be fei- ■it nt in prayer hat ^e enter not info itemptaci®n as this deplorable wretch tilid.F f N I f>.