THE WITTY AND ENTERTAINING;*EXPLOITS■OFGEORGE BUCHANAN,WHO WAS COMMONLY CALLED THEKING’S FOOL,THE WHOLE( * )The Witty and Entertaining EXPLOITS, ka.Mr. GEORGE BUCHANAN was 2 Scotfman bora,and of rtean parentage, made great progrefa in learning.—As for hia underftandiug and ready wir, hee*reg«icd all menvhen alive in that age, that ever propofed ^uettions to him.—He was fervant or teacher to King James VI as hiapri-sy councilor, bmt publicly he a died as his fool.It happened one day, that a young airy nobleman, wentinto the King's garden, to pull a flower for a young ladyhe fancied. George followed at a diflance, and when theyoung man found the flower to his pleafure, he would notpull it himfelf, but to find it again without farther feeking,covered it with his hat, sod went away for his fweetheart,—No fooner was he gone, but up goes Georg®, lifts the hat,and pulls the flower, then cafes himfelf oa the fpot, and co¬vered it with his hat again, and away he goes.—In corneathe young man, leading bis fweetheart to pul! the flower be¬low thehat; but as foon as he lifted the hat, and feeing whatwas below, he looked like a fool: the lady flies in a paffion,and off (he goes, never to countenance him any more. Theyoung man being fully vexed at this affront done to him byGeorge, fent him a challenge to fight him, appointed a dayand place where they were to meet being to fight on horf®«tack, George gets an old ftiff horft, andfor harnefiing covershim about wi.h blown bladders, with a few little fmall dunesin each, withour either fword orfpear, and away to the fieldhe goes, where the duel was appointed j fo when George faw■feis enemy coming againft him, all in glittering armour arm¬ed with-fword and fpear, he rode up to his horfe, (as is faid)being all covered with bladders ; Vie fmalt ftones in themmade fuch a terible ncife, that the gentleman’s fine geldingwould not (land the battle, but ran away and threw his roahter on the ground, which caufed all the fpeftators to laugh,and fay, the gentleman was more fool than George. Thegentleman being f« enraged at the feconjl affront, he wouldfight with George on foot} but bis friends perfuaded himthat it would 'ie no honour to him to fight and kill the king’sfool, and ferlefs to be ki^S^Hfepfiaol > they were advif-cd both to agree. £u*lbe ^uTOnahlstouW try another ;x-I jloa with George, for to have is faid he was the elevereS;: man, to hold him a jumping-boat publicly the next day there*i after. With all my heart, fays George, and vre will end iasod about wheee vre began; they not knowing hi* meaningi ui this. The place and hour being fet where they were t»meet next morning, George in the night caufed a deep pit t«rfce made, and the earth of it earried away, afterwards filled itsp with the dung of » privy, and covered it with a greenturf, fo that it might not be known by the other ground ; faaccording to promife, both met ia the morning, againft thetime appointed. Now George being the oldcft man, and bythem counted thegreateft fool, the young man permittedhim to jump firll, which he according to order performedi jumping within a foot of the place, where the ground wasfalfified, the young man feeing thi«, made his performanceafterwards with great airs and all his might, lo that he jump¬ed a foot over George, up to his oxters among clean dung ;'whereat the whole multitude of fpeftators cried out withhuiza and laughter. Now, fays George, l told you wcWould end in- and about where wc began, and that ’• ini clean dirt., On a time after this, the king and his court were going in¬to the country, and they would hare George to ride before' them in the fool’s drefs, whereunto he feemed unwilling, yetit was the king’s pleafure, fo George was mounted on an oldi korfe, a pair of old riven boors, with the heels hanging downa palmer coat, patched over with pittnres all of divers kinds;George rode before them iu this poilure, which caufed greatslaughter and diverfion, until they came to an inn, Wherethey alighted to dine, and in the time they were at dinner,George went into the (tables, and with a knife cut all thehorfes chifts, not fore, but fo as they might bleed. Nowas fooa as dinner was over, and they mounted on theirherfts again : George riding before them, as ufual, in hispalm.r toa; and boots, they began to make their game o£him ; then George turned about fudd$ity, and clapping hishands with loud laughter, they aiked him what made him.laugh fo ? Laugh, lays George, how can I but laugh ! whenho; tea can’t hold their prace; O my fovereign, favs Geotge,don’t you fee how the horfes have rent all their chafts laijgh-i ing at my old boots ? then every man looking at his horfesj mouth, they were all in rage againft George ; the king sa^ufedlh;m to be difmounted dtredtly, and charged him never toletI him ice his face again on Englifh ground. Now Georgeinowing that nothing could reconcile the Vu)g at this timeht came away to Scotland, and caufed to make him a pair oilar^e boeta and to put a quantity of Scottifh earth in eacho;them, and away he goes for England to fee the king one*more. He hearing the king and hi? court was to pfs threugjta conntry village, George place* himfejf up in an old window^and fets up his bare arfe to the king'and hia court, *$.the|pa fled by. The king ws* greatly .'unared'to fee an unufifa,hounor done to h m. was curious to know the performer; fthe called unto him, alking him to eonre down, and finding isto be George, Sit ftys'tke king, did not I charge you never tclet me fee our, face again ? 1 rue my fovefeign, fays George,for which 1 let you lee my aife ; nay, but lays the king, youwas never to come on Englifh ground again; neither i do;fays Geoige, pulling off his boots before the k/n g, faying, be¬hold my foveieign, it is all Scots earth I (land upon. lh«king and his court being fo diverted with this merry joke,George was again admitted into the. king's favour.After, this, there arofe a debate betwixt the king aad !ii(queen about Votes in the parliament, as the king hod tw«votes, and the queen would hav* one, and would needs be aparliamenter, or no peace without t!:i* preferment ; this niatiter was committed to George by the' king, fo it was agreetwith the parliament, that the queen ffiouid be admitted intithe parliament for one day, and accordingly ffie came, andwar received with all the honours and congratulations as weredue and becoming her high ftation ; but before any matter ofecnfequcnce was brought to the board, George fixed him felltuard to the queen’s feat : all being blent, he roll: tip veryquickly ; and lifting up one of his legs, and then gave a greatfart: which fet the whole houfe a laughing; whereat tho•queen was gter.tly offendtd, crying, go, take the rouge audtanghim ; to which George anlwercd, a fine pavlkmtenter in¬deed, to hang a man for-a finlefs infirmity, and that’s a fartjThe queen being fo enraged at this affront put upon her firftpropoli l of parliament, went off in a paffion and never wouldoountenance them any mote. But yet to b,- revehged onGeorge, Ihc would never give the king.re!i t^l he had deliver-«d up George into her hands that he might be punilhcd atfcer pleafure ; which the king accordingly commanded to bedone, knowing that George would rtfeue himlUf by fome in¬trigue or other. No fconer was George delivered into hefStands for to be st her d’.fpofa , hut the and her maidens p<o-tncea Tin doc-,ti, ^Kieh wa3 as follows: As he had affranetlqUecn »inoag fo great a* equipage, who ought to be he;y.n and, ab«^ >H woman in lhat «atroB. that ho..uldbefloned to death by the hands oF women. Now hitsiebewg come that he (hould die, according to appointment' .wa9. .tak?n ,-"f? » W where a great SdnibtfSf wome.as wartmg wi- h their aprons full of Hones, to Fall upon hintid put h,m to death according to the queen’s appdiitnrtJbt*HIS SPEECH TO HIS EXECUTONEaiHere s a female band wit.!, big» of (loncsjTo kill a man for rumple grotos,Pm clem of rajjini, blood and thefts, 'Could I convert my farts to rifts;Since 1 the firft for farting die,Clofe the hole from whence tlrey fly,To commit my crime I think you’ll fcarce,If once you do cork up your arfe ;And fince that woman the Hones do carryMen need not in the world tarry,Jttdge if fuch women be chafte complete.With forty Hones between their feet IBut fince it’s fo, you may cjbnie on/The greatefl whore throw the firfi Hone,When he had ended thefc word*, that the greatcfl who*hould throw the firfi Hone, every one put it to another to:afi tjhefiifi Hone, but knowing that they would attain th*tUaratter of a whore for fo doing, they all refufed till theLying hour was pafi, and then he took a proteH againH them amd by fiich mean* laved his life, „After this he wa» admitted to the queen’s favour and per.ence, atteuding the'court as formerly. About thi. time theFrench kmg not knowing how to pkk a quarrel with GreatBritain, fent a letter to the king defiring it to be read before::he parliament, and the writing wan as follows: Will I comeSV.il I come ? Will I come ? This letter being read over be-ferc the king and his . courtiers; they all concluded that thefrench king defigned to invade England; therefore they.Liote a letter, on purpofe to fend him again, uobraidirg hi fakith the breach of peace, and putting him in mind of theUaftneaty; this letter being read before the king and hi* nobaltFeZ a11 concluded that it fhould be fen: as an anfwer;* * ) 4 -4fGeotge fn>nilrg and to Um? hn h«d, .ened out.Many men, many minds,Who kno rs what he defi^i^Then they afked Georg, what he tbought the French king^eaot by ffch. a letter ? to winch h* anfwercil. I fnppofe heWants an Inrhatlon to come orer todmner and then go backin a friendly manner, hut you *rC go.og to charge htm With• breach of peace, before he has given any fignal of offence«rw*r his letter is yet dark, and tmlhcal, but-give himBit anfwer a cording to t.is, quelhoo. . rNow George being ordered to .write the anlwer, it wasAnd ye come. And ye tome. And ye come This beingfent to the French king, he admired it beyond expreflton,faying it was an anfwer more valiant and daring than he ex-^cAed ( fo the enmity he intended was extinguifhed therebyand turned into love. ,About this time it happened, that a mahgnint party mScotland, fent up a great fpokefman to the king and parli-■Hient for the reducing of the church : George hearing ot histoming, went away and met him on the bridge, and the fa-Jutation that he gave him was the cutting off his head, andthrowing it over the bridge; then ran to the king with allhis might, falling down before him, pleading molt earn.lllyfor a pardon, for without it he was a dead man. The kingmoft curioufly alkcd him, what he had done now : To whichhe anfwered, he had only thrown the Scot’s bifkopa hat overthe bridge, which made the kingdaugh to hear him alk par¬don for fach a fmatl fault; but he Rad no fooner got thepardon fealed by the king’s hand than he faid, indeed mySovereign, I threw his hat over the bridge, but his head wasin it. Geordie, Geordic fays the king, thou wilt never giveever till thou be hanged.After this a nobleman in England, agreed with the king,,how to put a trick upon George, to iry his mkuly' c.otiroge,in fending him to a certain houfc '*for a bag of money* Oi\iis way home through St. James's Park, they caufed a uui>dy fellow to go end fet the way upon him and take the mo-»ey ; he being armed with a f.vord and pidol, coming llpbrifldy, and atteked George with'thefc words You muddeliver up wh~,t money you have, or you are a dead man,To which George anfwered, Sir, I have money indeed, butYk not my own, and I am lorry to give it ; hevcrtlis’efs,fince I.-am not armed as you are to exchange blows for it.fitful hir« it; fcwt pray do -iio tlic ftrcnir at ta fire yocr-piftol thronjjh th« flap of ray coat, that the ojcner* may-feel have keen in danger of my life before I loft the monay ;which he accordingly performed. No fooner had he fired,then Georg* whips out his hanger from belo v h'l3 t!3jk andwith on* firoke cut off his right hand wherein he heii thefword. fo that both his fword and hand fell t* the ground ;but George lifted his hand ami carried it to the king. N»fooner did he cne before him, but they a&.vj h m (bring.Well Gaorge did you meet aay body :• troub!* y„u by th«-way ? No, faid he, but a fellow who was going to take themoney from me ; but I made him give his hsiid be wouldnot do the like again. You did, fay* the fellow’s mailer:Yet I did, fays George, let the work bear witnefs, throwingdown the fellow's hand on the table Wore them all.Now this lafl exploit of George’s canfed many of th«Englrfh to hate him, and among the reft • young noblemanfell a joking of George, in Ciying be would be as famous %•champion for Scotland, as Sir William Wallace was. Ay,ay, fays Georg.-, William Wallace was a brave man in his•time. True indeed, fays the other, but when he came toLondon, we did him all manner of juftice, and for hononfof the Scots, u-e have bis effigy is in the Alice houfe till thi*very day. And do you know th* realou of that fay* Georga.No, I don’t, fay* be. Well, I’ll tell you, fays Ge orge, h*was inch a terror to the Englilhmen wheu h« was alive, thata fight of him yet makes them bilhit thcnafeltes. The Engliflttook thia anfwer as a great affront, and firsthwith caufedWallaec’s piclurc to be taken out of that place.‘I here waa a young Englilh girl in lov* with a ScOtfmaand petititoned him fever*! timet to marry her, which herefufed, and upon revenge, therefore, went to a juftice mifwore a rape ag.vnft him, which it daath by the law, Ge«rgehearing nf this, went into the prifsn where the young miaw*s> and inftrodlcd film how to behave before the judge.So in the time ofthe trial, George came in, while the judgewas crying to th* mm, but never a word csuld he get outof him to arvf.ver, to tell whether he w*s guilty or not.ter tf»e judge had given him over to be deaf and dutnl), othersfc-I a (houting in bis ears, but never a word won d lie fpeak.i hen the Jtfdgc perceiving George, called to him, fayingGeorge do you know what is the matter with tlii* man?Yee I do very well. What is it ? fsy • Judge. Whyifav* Oeorcrp the woman made Tuch a noife^aad crying whe*be w*s favifliing her, it has put the poor man deaf I aflareyou. I ’ it fo laid t oe Judge. No. no. fays the woman rayd Judge, you mav well believe me, I lay as a lamb, audtsever i]«ike a word all the time. Very w«H confeCTcd, faysthe Judge, and you hare fworn a rape agaiaft him t go, takethe whore to “Newgate, and fet the p*or raan about his bull-pefs. And fo it ended.PART IT.F.ORGE happened one night to be in company with a£ifhrp. andfo they fell to anargument about religion, wherein George got, the better of him, and the Bilhop himfelffound he was wrong : then one of the company addreffedbimfelt to George in thefc words s Thou Scot, faid he,ought not to have left thine own country- For what ? faysGeorge, becaufe thou hat! brought all the knowledge in italong with thee. No, no, fays George, the fliepherds inScotland will argue with any Bifttop in England, and ex¬ceed them mighty far in knowledge. The Eaglilh clergytook t'his as a grear affront, and feveral noblemen affirmedit to be a* George had faid. Wagers were laid thereon, andthree of the Enghffi clergy were chofcn and fentaway toScotland, to difpute with the ihepherds, accompanied withfeveral gentlemen who were to be as witneffes of what theyheard pafs between them. Now George knowingwhat waythey were goiiig, took another road and came into the Scotsbounds before them, made up his acquaintancejvith a Shep¬herd at the border, vvhofe paflure lay hard by the \vay fidewhere the clergymen were to pafa, and here George mount¬ed himfelf in a flieplierd’s drefs. and when he faw the cler¬gyman coming, he conveyed his flock to tlie*way fide, wherehe fell a finging a a-atin fong ; and fo to begin th>: quarrelone of them afked him in Greek what countryman he was,to which he anfwered in Fleraiffi, if you knew tbit youwould be as wife as royfclf- The next afked him in Dutch,where was you educated ? which lie aufwered in Earle, herd¬ing my ffierp between this and Lochaber; this they beggedhim to explain intiVEnglifb, which he accordingly did; Nowfiid the one to the other, wc need not go a y further,What, fays George arc you butchers > I’ll fell you a fewfteep. To this they , made no anfwcr; but went awayC 9 )Ifcamefujfy, fwearing the Scots had p r« through al! thenations id the world *o learn their langu;, e,oir the deril hastaught them it, for we have no fhare here but lhamc.Alter George had ended the dirpute with the Englifhclergymen, lie llript off nis fljeplicrds’s rlrefs and up throughEngland with all the lialte imaginable, fo that he arrival a»the place {join whence they fet out, three days before them,and went every day afleing if tltey,were come, that be m'giit ,Dot be fufpected. Now upon their arrival all they drat were ,concerned in the matter, and mSny more, came crowding toknow what was done.—-No former had thethrec gentlemandeclared what had paft between the clergymen and the Ihep-herd whom they found on th^border, but the Bifhop, m^dcanh;er. ami think you, frid he,that a (hepherd could anfwertlieic queftions ! It has been the devil, for the Scots ininiifer*themfcl.'es could not do it, they are but igaorant ef fuch *matter's a parcel of heardlefs boys. Then George titoughtit was time to take Ipeech in hand. Well, mv L.ord BuTiopsfays he, you call them a parcel,of ignorant brcadlefs boys ryou havc^a great long' beard ynurfolf ray Lord Eifhop, andu the grace of God were meafured by beards, you hiihopaand the goats would have it all, and that will ba quiteaverfofoom the Scriptures. What,fays the Bi!hop,arcyoua Scot?Yes. fays George^ am a Scot. Well fays the Bifhop, amiwhat is the difference between a Scot and a Sot i Nothingat prefont, fays George, but the breadth of the, table, (thcrabeing a table between the Bifhop and Geoege.) So the Bi,ftop went off' in a paffi n, whilt'the whole multitudewoe like to fplit their jaws with laughter.Ab,ut this time there was an ?,£V of parliaments for thobenefit of murderers, that any perfon who comm tted mur«der, if they forfeited five huudr J merits, Which went undefthe the name of Kin B'-ot, bccaufe fo much of this fine werifcto the Buirdcred peifon's, nearefi relations, as the price ofcblood, and the murdeter got a remit. Now George know¬ing this to be contrary to Mofes’s laws, was very mcciagrieved to fee fo many pardons fealed with the king’s handfor murder, almcft one every week; it being fo ufuaifor the king to fubfenbe them that he did not read them no.enquire what ihey were ; for which caufe George wrote Zright to the crown, and fent it to the king to be fubferiber*’whic.t he adfuaily did, and naver looking what it was re.turned it U George: no fooncr had h; receivrd it, but heget* to the kinj and told him it was not time for him nowto fit there t whereat the king was greatly amaaed and dart-cd up; then George tu a great hade fet* himfclf down inthe king’s chair, forthwith declared himfclf king, faying.You who was king, n. dl be a fool, for I am now the wifeftman. T^e king at this was greatly offended, until Gfotgeihewcd'hlmhisfealaud fubfeription, but from that day forthhe knew what he fubferibedThe next pardon that came to be fealed to the king, wasa gentleman that had killed two men before, and had gotpardons for them by money. 1 ids bring the third, the kingfeemed fileut in looking over ;tb= petition. George Handingby, aiked the kiug what he was going to feal now? Towhich he anfwered, it is a remit for a man thut. has killedthree men r t fundry times j I have given him two remits be¬fore. O lays George he has killed none but one man. Andwho killed the other two ? fays the king. You did, faysGeorge j for if you had given him juftice when he killed thefirlt, he had killed no more. When the king heard tbefewords, he threw down the pen, and declared that fucb an adtto fave a murderer Hiould be null ever aft<r him.One day after this, George having no money, he goes a-way, and gets a pick and Ipade, and then falls t« digging at* corner of the king’s palace, which the king perceivingfrom his window, calls what he was wanting there ? Are yougsing to undermine my houfe, and make it fall ? No, myfovereign, faid he, but it is verily reported, that there isplenty of money -bo’.t this Louie, and where it can be,fays George, I cannot find, for it is not within the houfe todo me fervice, then fmely it mult be below it. O George,that is a crave after the new fafhion ■, what money youwant, I’ll order it to you. Then my fovereign, I’ll digho more.One day after this, George being in the country, he cameto an inn where he alighted to refreih himfelf and his horfe;the inn keeper charged him donble price for every thing hecelled for: George never grumbled at thi.. out gave himzil his demands, and away he goes on his journey: andwhere he quartered the night following, he was uled afterthe fame manner, if not woife. Now George came to theitm wheic he refrelhed himfelf the day before •, fo when healighted, the boy, afeed him, Sir, what lhall I give yourbotfe ? What you will boy, fays George. No focaer hadbe gone into hi* room, but the drawer afleed him. Whatwill yon have to drink, fir i What you will, fay* George,The mailer of the inn came into his room before Tapper;a iked him, 'What will you have for Tapper, fir ? What yo*will, Landlord, fay* George. Now, after, fupper beingended, and a hearty bowl to put all over, George went tobed, and got up pretty early in the morning, called for theboy to make ready bis horfe in all bafte, for he defigned tomount him, and go direftly: fo in a ihort time went intothe liable where the boy waa, calling for hta horfe, andmounted him with all the fpted he could, giving the boy «piece of money, faying, Here my boy, thi* is for yoar tak¬ing care of my borfe ; I have paid for all I called for in thehoufe y and off he goes. Now, about mid-day he atightedagain at an inn to refrefh himfelf end hi* herfe, and therehe chanced to be in company with his other landlord wherehe was the night before, and charged him with the doublereckoning ; fo Gerwge addrefied himfelf to him, after thi*manner: Sir, fay* George, l do believe l wa* in yone houfeyefternight, O ye*, fir, I mind of yon very well * and wherewas you lad night > Lad night! fay* George, I wa* in oneof the fined inna, and the civileft landlords ever I had iamy life ; they brought all things 1 flood in need of unto mewithout calling for it. and when I came off this morning,they charged me nothing, and I paid nothing but fixpenceto the boy for dreffing my horfe. Blood and wounds ! fay*the old fellow, then I’ll go there thi* night. Aye, fay*George do ; and mind this, when they afle you what willyou have for yourfelf and horfe, anfwer nothing but whatyou will. fir. Now George fmiled within himfelf to thinkhow he got the one extortioner to take amends oftheother-So the forelaid inn keeper rode that night until many of thepeople of the inn were gone to bed before he eame in. Nofooner had he alighted from his horle, than the boy alkedhim, what fhalt I give to your horle, tnader ? To which heanfwered, what you will boy. The boy hearing tbi., run*away, (leaving him and hie horfe to Hand at the door} upHairs to his mailer’s room, crying, mailer, mailer, what youwill is come again. O the rogue, cries, he where is he lI’ll cane him : I’ll what you will him bye and bye,' 5nd tohim be runs with his cane, licks him and kicks him, untilhe'was fcarce able to mount his horfe and would give hit*■o tn«cursgemeSt there, which eaufed bin* to ride th|.length of a whole long cold wiat-r night, after he had gothis bones all beat and bruifed : £■> the one purfuad the etheras a murderer* and hia defence was, that he was a cheat anda fconfcr'oi'his houfc, until the truth was found out.About this time, the French King lent and demandedfrom the King of Englarid, three men of different qualities,,the one was to be a mighty ftrong man, the other a verywife man, and the third a great fool, fo that he might haverone in all France to match them in their ftatoirs. So ac.corJingly there were two men chofen, the one a ffrongman,and the’other a wife man, but George* w.ts to a& as a fool ;neTerthelefs be was tlie teacher of the other two. Ai d on .their way to France George afkcd the ff rong man, What willyou aulwer the French king if he alks you if you bea ilrongnaan? I will Cay I am. Then, fays George, he’ll get ailronger man than you, who may kill you, and affront yourcountry. What fhall I fay then, laid the ftrong man ? Whyfays George, tell him you are ftrong enough V,,tired. Thenfays George to the wife man, and what will you fay to theking, when he alks you if you be a wife man ? I will tellhim I am, and anfwer all* the queftionr I know. Very well,fays George, and what if he alks you what you do not know•then you will affront your country, and be looked upon asa greater fool than me i What (hall 1 anfwer then i laid thewife man. Why fays George t6 him, he is only a wife mattwho can.take care of himlelf; and I Hull come in after youand take you off altogether. No fooncr were they come tothe king s palace, then the k tig fetit for them to try them.Tl «.he ffreng man being firfl. called for, in he goes : then theling aflceCl him, are you a ftrong man fn £ To which heanfwtrcd, ’O king, I am ftrong enough ua ried-’ Very-good, f id the king. After him entered the wife man ;etowhom the king put the queftion, Sir, -re you a wife man?He is only a wife man that can take care of himfelf.’—Very good, fays the king ; with that George pulhes up thedoor, and in he goes, with loud laughter, piffes dire&ly fnthe king’s face, which blinded both his eyes, and fet thewhole court in amaze. Now, now, fays the king, it is trueenough the yvife man fayf, for if I had taken care of myfelfI needed not Ken piifed upon by the Englilh fool. O hotfays George, tools always ftrive to make fools of ©thenJaut wife men make fools of thcmfclves. The king imagin¬ed as much as Le was made the greater fool, andC 13 3tlicm forthwitli to £0 home, for he wanted no nwre of Eng¬land’s Rrength, wifdom nor folly.One night aker th-s, a Highland drover chanced to hav»e drinking bout with an Englifh captam a fltip, and atlaft, the Englilh raptian and he came to.be very hearty "vertheir cups, fo they called in their fervants to have a fltarcoftheir liquor; the drover’s Servant looking like a wild ma^going without bteethes, ftockhigs, or fhoes, not fo much a*a bonnet on his head, with a lone poel‘.l rung m his handThe captain a Iked how long it waslin.ee he catched him : a-bout two years fmee I hauled him out of the fea with a netand afterwards he ran into the mountains, where I chacedbon with a pack of hounds. The captain believed it was fo*but fays he, I have a fervant the belt fwiltimcr in Europe.O but fays the drover, my feCvant will fwim him to death tNo, fays the captain, 1 will lay two hundred guineas on itThen fays the drover, I hold it for one, and flake* itdiredlly ; the day being appointed wlxea trisjl was to bemade. Now the drover, when he came to himfs'f, thinkingwhat a bargain he had made, did not know what to do,knowing very well his fervant could fwim none. He hear¬ing of George being in town, who always was a good frienlto a Scotfman, went unto him, and told him the whole■flory, and'that he would.be entirely broken, and never durftreturp hjfcne to his own country, for he was'fdre to lofe  No\^*George called the drover a .d his firvant alide ; an,|inflrucltd them how to bring him ofT.with fafety and ga;^too ; fp accordingly they met at the place appointed ; Thecaptum s fervant dripped, direajyand threwhimfelf into th.fea, taking a turn until the Highlandman was ready, forthe drover took fome time to put his fervant in erdc£ afterhe was itnppid, bis mailer.took a plaid, and rolled his keb-baek of cheefe, a big loaf and a bottle <,f gin jn ;t, and th-he bound on his fhoulder*, giving him a direftion to tell hi*Wite and children he was well ? and to be fure he returnedwith an anfwcr agamfi that dayTen’night.. So he went intothe fea then he lookediback to his mailer, and cries outto himtor his claymore. And what wait* he mow for, fays'he wh<*w., to fwim along with him ? He wants hi* fword. fays hi*rr Cr‘r>HwuV°rr ’ f*VS theiyi^;What » bc t0 witk» fvvord ? Why, fays themafter, if he meets whale or mo«.ftrous head, it is to defend his life; I know he will have t»£ght hif way through the north fcas, or ke go *0 Lothetert..Then crifs the other, I will fwim noae with him if he taktthis fword. Ah, but lays hig mailer, you (hall, or lofe thewager, take you another fword with you. No, fays thefellow, I never did fwim with a fword, nor any man elfe^that ever I faw or heard of > I know not but that wild-likeroan will kill me in the d<ep water, I would not for thewhole world venture myfelf with h.m and a fword. Thecaptain feeiag his fervai* afraid to venture, or if he did, hewas fare never again to fee him alive, therefore he defired anagreement with the drover, who at firft feemed unwilling,but the captain put it in his will: fo the drover quit himfor one hundred guineas : This he came to through George aadvice.PART III.After this, George being in Cornwall about fome bs*Unefs when be chanced ro run fhort of money, and not know¬ing what to do. not being acqMainted with any in that coun¬try, and knowing his landWrd to be loyal to the g0«'«*■sent and a great favourite to the ! mg his mailer, h« ta:e*a piece ofbrick and brays it into a final! powder mixed witha little chalk, fo that H might frem in colour like Arlenick,which is {Iron* poifon. ‘ Then tying it up in papers, writing•n this direftion, ‘ The ftrongeft poifon for the king, and onthe other paper The floweft poifon for the queen. Outhe eaea on purpofc, and leaves the napers lying on the tablewhere he knew they would be looking at them : The land¬lord perceived the diiwdion : fo in comes George in greathafte and calls out, * O landlord, did you fee two fmaUhandles I have loll, for l know not what I {hail do, for itwas my main bufinefs to take them to London. O youmurdering rogue ! cries the landlord, I will have T°* bang-cd for what you intend George at this time made off, andwas soing to fly forth, but the landlord called for afi.iance:fo he was app-ehended and mad* prifo.er of Ha-e, and carried“ Londo. 1 y a tro#P of korfc, when the pacple there oeganto know him, and told wh. he was, his guard fl.pt awayfharoefully and left him : lo George thanked the* for tkcirirood company aad fsfe convoy, , .. .S Tkero was a law made again* wearing fwords at balls aidafembliei in .he reign of King James the VI. b.caufe theywere inconvenient thefe oscahons. Bat George to bewitty in the tft, proiriiled hinnfelf with a lon^ fcabbari,and got himfelf introduced to a ball where the king and hi*court were prefent. George made feveral turn, through thecompany, making his fcabbord hit againft their (bias, a*«fometimes flipt in bdow a lady’s fardingal t aad in (hort mo-lefted the company fo much that he wa* taken nottce oC. andfeized as a perfou who had iivcurred the prnahy of the a*tforefaid. But George excafed himfetf, telliag them, thatthe law was only againft fwords, and a* he only wore a tcah.bird, was no ways liable. At feeing this, the khig and iacourt were convinced that the law was imperfeft, and thatGeorge had more wit than thmefelvra,George one day eafing hioafclf at the fide of a hedgewas efpied by an Englilh ’fquire who began to mock him, afr->ng him why he did not keckle like the hens ? But George,whofe wit was always ready, told him he was afraid to xeo*kle, left he would come and fnatch up the eg?. Which r*-buft" made the fquire walked off as mute as a fifiv.George was profeffor of the College of St, Andrews, andflipt out one day in Tm gown and flippers, and went to hatravels through Italy, and fcveral other foreign countries,and after feven years returned with the fame drefc he wentoff in ; and entering the College, took poffeflion of his featthere, but the proffefor in his room quarrelled him for 1®doing. Says George it is a very odd thing that a man can¬not take a walk in his flippers, but another will take up hi*feat. And fo fet the other proffeffor about his bnfinels.George was met one day by three bifliops, who paid himthe following compliments. Says the firft, Good day, fatherAbraham ; fays the fccond, Good day, father Ifaac ; fays thethird, Good day, father Jacob, To whom he replied, ‘ I amneither lather Abraham, father Isaac, nor father Jacob ; butI am Saul the fon of Ki(h feiit out to leek my father’s affes,and lo 1 1 have found three of them.’ Which anfwcr con¬vinced the bifhops that they had miftaken their man.A poor Scotfman dined one day at a publick houfe in Lon¬don upon eggs, and not having money to pay, got credit tillhe would return, the man beingluck) in trade, acquired vrvftriches, and after fomc years returned, and calling at the houicwhere he was owing his dinner of eggs he had from him fucha time, but the landlord now fee'nig him rich gave him a billof fomc hundred pounds, telling as his reaton for fo cx«travagent a chargs, that thefe eggs, bad they been hatched,would have keen chickens, and thefe la,mg more eggs, wouldlave more ('K'ckcns ; and fo multipl) i g Jhe eggs andtbeir produ^'till fucii n tune as their value fh'aulil amountto the film he chiarged. The man re fifing toeomp'ly with thisdemand, was charged before a judge ; but in the mean time,made his affair known to George Buchanan* his country¬man, who prondfc-d to appear in the hour of caufe : whichhe accordingly did all in a fweat, with a great bafket of ,tailed peafe ; which app; ;rance fuprUVd the judge, who aflcVed him w hat he meant by tliefe boiled peale , fays GeorgeI am going to fow them : When will they groW ? fay t!iejudge.-—.Tin y. will grow when fodJen eggs grow chickens^ Which anfwer convinced the jadge of the extravagance of theEnglifhman’s demand, and the Sco:/majUM:as . {Toila.d uponpaying: tow pence halfpenny..There was a bell at Dalkieth, Which the Pdpiih clergymtsdc tife of to 'ex'ore eon/eflkm fom the ignorant peoplein the following manner. They told the ptrfon who theyfufpected guilty, it would ring at the toung of a guilty p. r*fon, b\t if not guilty, it would not : by th. fe means t^eygenerally frighted the ignorant into conftflian 5 for if thebell wculi ring, the perTpn was then to be condemned todeath. But they managed the matter fo, that the bell wasnever put tc the trial, rill George did a» follows : He wastaken up for faying ’That the Pope was fallible himfelf;and could not pardon the fins of others.’ George owned hefaid fo, but would ielei to the bell whether he was guilty ornat. Then pridls. though unwilling, were obliged to com- 'ply. George touched the bell, repeated aa before, ’ Vh«Pope is fallible, and cannot pardon fin, mcreover added*The Pope and popifli clergy are impollcrs, and thereupon hetouched the hell, referring to it tor truth ; but the bell notringing,, the priclh were difgrflced as impofttrs, andhe washonourably acquitted and the bell was laid afide.George defired a member of the college of St Andrew’s 'to lend him a book ; the other told him, he could not poffiblyfpare it out of big chamber, but if he pieafed he might coaieand read there all the Jay long. Some time after, the gen¬tleman lent to George tc* borrow his bellows ; but he fenthim word, be could not |8bflL61y fpare them out of his kitchen,but he might come there and blow all the day if he would.A fcholai at the garmmar fchool of St Andrew’s cominginto the room where his imfter had laid down a balket of fineeheyie* for his own eating; the waggilh boy takes them up.a>’3 cr«< itoaij, IpuUifh'h' "'tiv Sctweerttllcfe r!.e-ricssnJ'ir.y wout^, tf any know 3ny |ti:t caaO* or impciimen^. whyi-thefr l>iou!J not he joined u^etrur. iec tliepi declare it. Theiraftir b.-ia? in the next room, overheard all that was faid,a: d coming into thefehool, he redered t'.e hoy who hvl -ateiihis cherries to be taken up, or as he called it, ho. -'M on a m-ther hoy’s back ; but before he proceeded to the ufual difcip-line. he cried out as loud a? the delinquent had done. T pubiHhthe banns between the boys bree. -ciandmv twas, ifanv oneknow any juft cauie ar impedin ent, whv tSefe two fh-vud notbe goined together, let them declare it. -George patting byin the mean time, overheard this, proclamation . I forbid thebanns cried he. Why fo ! fays the fchoolnufter ! Bcctuie theparties are not agreed replied he. Which aiifwsrfr pleafed .hemailer, that the boy was fet do*n without any punilhment.A young gentleman that wanted to he witty on the ferip-tures, eating feme chcefe full of mites one n'ght at a tavernTNow. faid he, I have done asmucha:. SarRpfo.',fjr I have (lainmy thouTods and ten thoufands. Yrs, replied George, whohappened to be in his company,and with thefame weapon toothe jaw bone of as sfs, which ajifwer fet the whole company *laughiVg to fee the yowng gentleman beat with hisown weaponGeorge being in company where three bilhops were prefentat dinucr; they knowing. George to be a great Tholat aud■comial awitbal, they put Upon h tn-to fey the grace, whichhe did as follows:Here are three brethren of the coat.Who for thy Ueffing thank thee not,Curfe them Lo rd and blefs Tem not. Amen.Tall on gentlemen, the caufe is good. This grace madetVe bilhops to look like f«ols to one another, while Georgelaughed heartily at the confuft in they were in.A candltmakcr having fome candbs ftolen was tellingit in comgany where George was prefent, who bade him beof cheer, for in a fhort time, fays he. they w'd‘ come to light.George being fent to Paris about fome bufinefi, w ent fromthence to Verefailes to fee the Frenr.h king's court, and bringknown there to ft veral of the courtiers, who had been atthe Englilh court, one of them took occafion to tell theFrench Kiug. that George was one of the witteft men inEngland, upon which the Frencli king defired to fee him,which he did ; but George it feemt was out c. nt.jiour, orat Isaft fteming fo, fpoke but very little to the purpofc, fothe French king told the nobleman that recommened hi»Ibr fucli a wit, th*t he looked upon him ss a vefy dull M.low ; but the noble man aflilred the king winterer he thoughtof him George was a very witty and ingenioue mail; where-■pon the king was refolvcd to make a further trial of him,and took him into thi great gallery, where there was abun¬dance of line pi&ures, and among the Pell, Unwed him thepicture of Chrift on the crofs, and afleed him if he knew whothat was f but George made himfelf veiy ignorant, and an-fwered No. Why fsys the king", I will tell you if you donot know. This is the pifture of our Sivioor on the crofs,and that on the right hand is the Pope’s and that on the leftif my own. Whereupon George replied, I humbly thankyour Majefty for the infemation, for though I have oftenheard that our S.iviour was euicilird between two thieves, yetX never knew who they were U-fore.A (harper who acquired vaft riches by cheating, toldGeurge, that if fuch a thing as a good name was to be pur-ehafed, would freely give ten thoufaod pounds for one. Sir,laid George, it woiildcertainly be the worft money you everlaid out in yonr life. Why fo, faid the fiurper l Becaufeanfwercd be, you will lofe it in lefs than a week.One alked Georgs why men always made fnit to the wo¬men, and women never to the men ? Why, fays he, becaufethe women are always ready for the men, but the men are notalways ready for the women.George went into the mint one day when they were melt-ing gold ? one of them afleed George, if he would have hishat full of gold ? George readily accepted, but it burnt thebottam out of his hat, as they knew it would, and for thatbout they foolUd George; however, George to be even withthem bought a fine large hat and canfed a plate of copper tobe put betwixt the hat and fhe lining, and returned next day,they, jcftingly, afleed him if he would have another hat full ofgold ? He laid he would They gave it red hot, and Georgenow laughed at them in his turn, telling them that this newhat was a good one and flood fire better than the old one andfo carried it off honeflly ; ibeing afterwards profecuted for to•return it, he excufcd himfclf telling the judge, that he tooknothing but what was given him ; therefore he was honour¬ably acquitted and the othsr heartily laughed at.In the reign of King James the VI. George dining one daywith the Lord Mayor, after two or three hcslths the mjniflerwas loaded, bot when it tsmeto George', turn to drink, hediverted it fome time by telling a (lory to the perfon who fatigfcKt klM ! til* chief magiHra'* not f.>«ing his Wafticalled out, what fti«ks the *»iniftry at! At nothing, f ijGcorge. *nJ fo drank off his glsfs- . ,, ;i George being one day along with the king and his robie*hunting, and being bat very forrily mounted, vrhsn h« wa*fupvtng up his hov(>, obfcrved the horfc to hare a tnoJtd falling down on his knees, George immcdia»«i' thoughthow he would make ufc of that very thing - to divrrt M*Majefty: therefore pretended that his horfe wmtld hare*.,and knowing fome hare feats rode that way to (bevr • '-cem-pmy the truth of what he affirmed, but when he had toiinathe hare by giving his horfe a fpur, he immediately clappeddown : this he repeated feveral times, till he put the wholecompany in belief that what he'bid faid was truth ; and onecf the noblemen being charmed with the psrtorm«nce ot• George’s ho. fe would have George thange with him, Georgefeemed at fir ft unwilling to part with his horfe ; bu: at lalt wa«■prevailed upon to part with him for the noblemans horfe and.a hundred guineeas to boot. But afterwards ridding thro ariver pretty deep, the the nobleman fpurring his new horl«, h«.clappeddown on his belly, which George feeing called out tothe company to return w>h the dogs, for the nobleman «horl«bad certainly fet a hare: which fet the whele company a laugh?  T'c-1  - .cl- fnlrnve his horfe in thertainiy let a hare: which icc me wuvic w-t—"/ - - aing. The poor robleroen was cbliged to leave his horfe m the. and waddle thro* o* foot, ail wet to the ilioalders.water, and waddle thro’ o* foot, ail wet to the (boulders.A Scotfman being reduced to poverty, made his court to'George to put him in a way : George told him he wouldproviding lie would do as he diiefled him. 1 here was an oldniifer, an ufurer and money changer hard by : George dehr-ed the poor fellow to pietend an errand to the mifer and whenhe came to the table wherc the heaps of money lay, tothurftbis hand amoisg the gold, but lift none and mn off. Thepoor fellow did, and was chafed by ihe miier and his fer-vants, whp ran after him into the ftreel, calling to ftop, thethief. Tlic poor fellow was Hopped, as Georg* had defircdKim to let them catch him. George appearing in the mob,went along with the poor fellow, who was carried before ajudge where ha was ft:arched, and nothing being found upo»him he was acquitted, aud the mifer fined in a large fum foraccufing him. Afterwards George defired him to go to theTame place and thurft in both his bands, and lift at much as hecould and run off. This he did, bur themifer told him be wainot fuch a fool ae to follow him, for he knew he only defignedMUl, iUCII a 4UUI as WV lUl'UW linn, •wr I»w   -y - 0to pby the fool to have him fined again. B at by this mean*the poor fellow was enriched, end afterward* lived verjd very happy.ctfOUig hots burnt his mouth, rnci at *ne *am« Umc letting goaloud fart. It i.s wel! for you, fays ^orgc, that you madeJour efcape, for J fhould have burnt >ou alive had you flaid«iny a&ed in company how ii; came to take it mto hi* head toenter in to theminiftry ofthechurch? Bpcaufe Paid hethe Lordhad need of mr.That may tie replied George, who was prefentfor l have often heard that the Lord Rad once need of an af*After this George being fent with the Britidi Aiubalf.idorI int0 Ittly by the way of Paris, and as they were viewing thebeautiful ftatutes and large building* oftha: fpaciotr; city, theking and many ot hi*, nobles in company j as they were walk¬ing thro’ the King’s garden, among the images of thefaints,they came to the image of theVirgin Mary, who ftoad in a me¬lancholy pofiure with the bade in her snns,oue of the noblemenfay* to the Britifh Ambaflador don’t y6u think that Hie tooka* if flic were angry ? Oyes, fay* George, fhe’s angry whenflu fees Englifhmen and Frenchmen in friendfhipaud unintyone with another. No, no, fays jhe French king, flitlovesnothing better tlian the reconcitation ofenmemie*, peace and'Unity is her delight. *1 hen George gets in below the flatue,and looks up : O lay* George. I know what i* the matter nowfor fomeboby has driven a nail in her arfc, I fee the head ofit nicking out, k would vex any living, bc’s apiece of woodAt this the king was greatly enraged at George for faying lb,;for calling hu^a piece of wood ; and nothing would fatisfy'the king unit* George wunld fall down and worfhip theVrigm Mary and crave pue^-.n of her fot the Wafphemous re¬proaches whrrwith he hatTreproached her. Then Georgecries out, O may it pleafe your Majefty, urremit at this time.I dare not look I Ur in the face, (he frowns on me with Qiehan angry countenance : this dutiflii command of yoursmuftbe delayed until I return from Italy, and then I (hall fulfilyour demand h: paying Tier all dutiful refptft', and tvorfiripunto her sccoiding to what fhe is. So here the AmbafTadorflood bound for George, that he tvonld perform this piece ofworfhip at his return, according to the king’s pleafute.Now duriijingthcir (lay in Italy, they chanced to be in a nobl man’s houfe, where they kept but few femnts, bccaufe o f-a fpirit that did haunt the houfe for the fp-*cc < f zoo rearsbefore that time, fo that no Gtivant could work a n- kind ofJ^\. Young■ lal.oiST In of about the Wufe for it, except cooks, for whalthey vulgarly called a brownie, it did a" itfel^nd would lut-fer no fellow-labourer to work along with it.— On the mx*irroming George got up pretty early and called for water towafh hinifclf j then direfUy comes the Krownic with a baionof water in one hand, and a dean cloth in the other. Georgeperceiving him hare fuch'a pale ghofily countenance» notiobe an earthly creature, fnld, Of what notion art thoa ? ToVbich it anfwered m Galic or Eaif-. A countryman of yours,fir. The Anibafiadorfmilcd and joked George, telling him itwas a devil, and how could it be a countryman of his ? Olay*George, I’ll (hew you the contrary ofthat, for the devil dareifot Hay in our country. George having wafhed himfelf, itcame to take away thebafon of watu-, then fays George, Andhow long is it fince you left yonr own country ? About 2COand -50 yean ago, fays it. Then certainly, fays Tip, thou art^a devil and not an earthly creature. To which it anfwered,1 am what I am, and a Chriflian too. Then I am what Iam, to conjnre you fays George ; he taking a handful ofwater, and throwing it upon the old wrinkled face of it, re-*plating the form of the words of baptifm in Earfe, faying,Jf thou be a Chirftian thou art old enOu. h to b« baptifed,Mo foomr had he done this, but it went off weeping and cry*ing, (/Met never a rogue put truil in his own countrymenafter me. Mow, fays George, 1 told you the devil dareNnotflay in my country, nor yet look a Scotfmaa in the face inhis own. What ! fays the Italain Lord,do you imagine thatthis is the devil’s own country ? It appears fo, fays Georgefor he is the oideft refidenter in it I know ; but my Lord,faid he, and if it pleafe your Grace, I think the clergymen,are very fcant in this country when you have kept the devilfo long for a chaplain. The nobleman to this gave no an-fwer, but expielfed his forrow to be very great for the let, ofIds brownie.N«w the Ainbrflador having done his buG.'ifc in Italy thejtreturned homeward, and on their way the AinbalLdor beganto queftion George how he thought to efeape Paris withoutcommitting idolatrv. No, no, fays George, I never dtd wor-Ihipany image, and qever (hall,but 1 ihal) make them worlhipthe worft that is in my guts. No fbotier were they arrived ia.Paris, but George leaves the Anibafiador, and goes direttlyto the Virgin Mary, jumped in over the railing to the holyground, (as thry termed it) whereon (he Hood, where fewdui ftgo.but prielU and friars; and there lie loofedhis'breeches* a made fuch a grorairg eafiug himfelf^ tliat he was heardart a diftance by the priefb and friars who were walking nearky ; and they percei-ving tliis heiflous abominatio:i, run uponbim like a pack of hounds, and carried him before the cardi¬nals and father cotfeffjrs, where be was allowed to fpeak forhimfelf, wihch be did as follows:“ May ii pleafe your rooft excellent worfltips to hear my•‘"reafons before you pronounce the fentence to be put in ex-« edition agiieft me. It was my misfortune to be paffin|f« thro’ this city a few nyonths ago with the Britilh AmbaU-f* fador on our way to Italy ; and one day being walking inthe King’s garden, in prefenee of the king and many of hisM Nobles, who can bear witutfs to the truth of the lame ; Ibeing ignorant of your traditions and rites of religion*foolifhly offended, reproaching the Virgin Mary to her* face r and ever fines ihe has p agued me with a boundoefa“ in ray belly that I have avoided nought but rlean hach:fo now oa my reti^rn I went and imp!ored,her to openM fundament, and Ike has done fo; I being overjoyed with*•*the miraculous baaling in getting a paffage in her perfencm“ left it as a memorial of the miracle in that place.” When,bearing this, they all with one confent lifted up their hand«■and bleffed the Virgin Mary, fpr the wonderful miracle diebad done, and ordered George to go about his bufioefa, and’declare unto all what was done unto him hy the holy Virginfor the confirmation of their religion.. So all the devout Ro¬mans came to view bis doeir, and wo'rflup it in prefence ofmany people; and alfo caufed a holy day to be obfervedthroughout the king’s dominions for the. miraculous cure.Now George being a long time abfent from Britain, hethought it fit to go and vlfit the king and hi? court in dii'guife.He meeting with an Old man dtiving two old horfes loadedwith coals to fell. George here made a bargain with the oldman for the loan of his cloathes, his horfes and eoal whip, andevery thingto complete him as a real driver ; fo away he goesin hisdrefs until he came before the king’s palace, where hebegan to cry with na audible voice, Buy ceab,buy coals; bet¬ter buy than borrow Now the king being in company withhie new chaplain who wan a foufrdlmg. fo that none knew hisoriginal, and hsd been follered and educated out of charity bythe king’s father, yet he was become as proud as Lucifer andas gentle in his own conceit as the king iumfvlf. Nosr theking knowing George’s voice though-lie was in a eoalman’sdrels, deiired the chaplain to afk the coalman why he calledfo loud, making fuch a ternblc noife. The chaplain opcu»Jfn )«d tlte windoirr ard with great airs called ost Onto him, Yoifir, what do you cry for ? Why, faid George, fcry for peo¬ple to come and buy my coals and give i»e ordney for them :but what do you cry for ? What, fir! f«ys the young pn'eft,1 cry for you to hold your peace- Then, fays George, comehere then and cry for me, and go fell my coal*, and I willhold my peace. Sell your coal*! fays the prieft, do yoi»know unto whom you fpeak ? Yes, I do know, fays George,but you do not. What are yr-n ? fays the'preft. I am »mortal and lo«re you, fays George; What is your father’tname, fince you will not tell me your own ? fays the prieft:You muft go alk that at my mother, fays George, for 1 ananot (ufficient, when fhegot roe to know him : What, lays theprieft, do you not know your own father! I know my mo¬ther, and my mother did know nay father, fays George, anithat is fufficient, and more than you can fay perhaps. Theprieft, thinking he was corning too near, thought to put himoff with a Scriptural qoeftion, by alking him. If he knew wh®wasMelchizedek’s father? Indeed,mafter prieft, fays George,Mclchtzedek’s defeent was not counted, neither is yourr, the*who can declare your generation ? The prieU at this anfwerwould ftand the argument no longer, hut clofed the windowin great hafte, while the king and all who knew the prieft tobe a foundling, were like to fpHt their fides with laughingfo George went off with his coals and the prieft Irtlcame morehumble then he was formerly, for he thought that erery bo¬dy knew what he was when the coalman knew fo well.One night after this an EnglHli ’{quire who profeffed to bebetter verfed in poetry than George, laid a wager with anothergentleman five guineas againll one that George could not me¬tre tbe firft word he would fay to him in the morning whe*newly awaked cut ol hw deep •, fo tire gentleman went thpnight before and told George the ftory and bid him be on hi*guard for in the morning they would ceratinly c<»me and thatright early. At midnight if you will, fays George. Ill orderiry fervants to let you in. So the Euglifh ’fquire fat up allnight conferring wiih his friends wheU^rhe would put a high▼erfo to biro ,ar mean firaple words, thiuJSfg that George wou dbefitting up all night meditating on an anfwer, fo all agreedthat mean and fimple words would be the beft, as he wouldnot be thinking on them, and have no anfwer provided. The*away they came in the morning early, with feveral gentleta*Bkt company to hear the diverfea, George’s feroat opened thfloor, according to his Butter’s ordeis. The fquire entered thJ*)ohi firft, and awakened George out of bis deep, then faidf,Hifc up you madman, and pwt on your tloathes. |To which Gtarge anfwered.O thou haft loft thy wad man, for I am none of thofe.The Englifh fqnire confeffedhe was fairly beaten and could»atch him with no more- Then another gentleman wouldhold liic guienas, that he would give him a word or line tha*he fhould not metre at the firftanfwer, andtoanfweritdireaiyas foon as he had donefpeaking: but George ordered him firdto table; hi« money and iirtn to proceed, which hedidia alhafte, and faid as follow# :My belly rumbled and then I fartejl.George gripping to the money anfweied,A fool and his money is foon parted.Thenthey all cried out he was fairly heat and what Georg'shad faid was really true ; but never would lay any more wagers concerning poetry.After this George got a letter from a.bilhop telling hintthat he was coming to vlfit him, and take dinner with him ithie lodg ngs j George lent ananfwer to himthat he would wai•pan his Hrdlhip on the day appointed ; but well did Georg,fcnow it was not for ary love he had unto him that he wa jj•erning to lee him, but to fpy fairlies therefore he thought hJIfbould give him foPitthi-ig t.> talk about. So George fent hifl#ervar.t to a bookfclhr’s fhop to buy a dozen of fmall pamp*lets about a‘halfpenny a piece fuch as A ‘ Groat’s Worth oilWit for a penny.’ ‘ The hiftory of tin King and the Coblerftnd loch pieces as thele. Taking aft his own books away, anettfuttrng the pamphlets in their plate which is prelehted to til'llifli p, when he afleed for the fight of his library. What, fay*the bifhop, have you no more books but thefe ? No more, fay |JCsurge, hut my bible, juft no moie, O f*ys the biftiop I wonijdcr how you on either fpeak plain or write a perfeA fentencJJwhen r ou have no other books but tliefe. G lays George, udljou think that 1 am a* clergyman, to borrow other men’s fer•ions to beawtifv my works ? No. no, not I; all that I writi•r dite I medittte cut efuny brain. This check concerninjborrowing put the hiUK;p in a cold fweat, ye- he concealed hipsffion. Then George called to his fervanl if dinner w s readjyet, to which he anfwered. Come, mafter, come the pot is octhe boil, get out the meal pock ; then George came into tbijoom where his lervant was, and fet the BUhop at the hde oiah# Are, and hit down at tfic ®tl*r hiBifclf; whil* bit ferraisJ< *s )ide a great bowel rult ot milk brofc and fet th*m do »nbe-’em the bifhop and George ; then George deSred the bilhop ‘a Ik a blelling f r what they were to receive . Th- bilhop did|i>Vknow what he meant by aikffing, i: nnbemg ufual for the^lifh to do fo, aftud at George whatit \va», but George tooka great ramhorn fpoon, and flapped it into the bifhop’s handlying, there it is my lord, What i fays the b iho£, call youiat ableffing ? we call that* fpoon, O my lord, fays Georgea w the belt bl effing you can alk, if it do not come empty,j Well, fays the biftwp. andhowdoyoucall this fealded meat?phy fay? George, we rail it Scots brofe. O, fai d the bilhop,j cannot eat it. 0 faid he the thing we cannot eat we fupjiy lotd fi.ice you arc in a Scotsman’s houfe, you mut par.tike of a. Scotfman’* vi&uals. Then laid the bilhop, I al¬ways thougTit the Scots tied lived well till now, I woul<d not'e a Scotfman for the world. O, fays Gedfge, ifaScotfma*jives but io years and gets but iq ya« s meat, he cannotbejiadely off. What, not badly off, and want a year’s vick ials?hid the bifliop, npon my word of honour, if Iwajuedoneday’e’iftuals, I’d be fure to die the next. O fays George, we drinkrater when we cannot do better, and that puts us in remem¬brance of wealth, for a di(h of contentment is good cheer,t, I hen laid the bilhop, I’ll drink water too, if itb^good farme memory. Ay do, faid George, ami you will remember mebrhen you do fo. hiow after dinnei thebilhep took his leave •wGeorge, and defired tiirif neit day to comeand dine with hint*-jKJ PARTY.V EXT day, George, atcording to promife, Went to the^Clop’s lodgings; but no fooner did c bilhop fee George.. „ „ . _ . bilhop f<than he faluted him with thefe words :Your fervant, mailer wife man, and yet you have no books?How can you have knowledge that no ftiaa iutlrufts ?George anfwercd,Your fervant, mailer bilhop, your fdutation’s good ;Fourknowledga isinyourliberary, whileothers arein their hoodHow after a fumputous dinner, the bilhop took George in¬to his library, Ihewing him a grea quantity of bonks whichGeorge praifed ver y much, and among the reft was an oli.Hebrew Bible, which Georg? taking up aflkeil at the bilhop,what book it was 1 the bifliop Looking at it very fincerly, faii.he could not tell. Why then do you keep a book that yo»po not knaw the name of it ? It may - be the book of black*r*» Ho, I do*’» think that, faid tjicbilbop, but qaa yo* tfii|T 26 i•what it is ? Yes, fays George, it is the Bible, the btf\ bootfer a bifhop I know, if he had eyes ter fee the infide ot it : boh« defired George to read a piece of it ? but when he d.dfie could not underfland it, he therefore defired him to explain, jwhich fentence he did as follows, Ifa. ix. i6!’ For the le»d-•« era of the people caufed them to err, and they that are led“ of them are JeftroyedTo which George added, this.is, Sthe blind leading the b ind. So taking his leave of the bdhop, jtie parted with him. faying thefe words: „ 1Good night, hail Mr bilhop, ot books you have great (tote, .Yet cannot read the half of them, then what ute are they for .Many of the clergymen in England defired greatly to be in .company with George, becaufe of his comical and witty cx-erefSons, fo George happened one night to be called into a ,company, where there were two bifhops, as alfo a pn.ft, W 'Owanted to be licenfed by them. One of the b.lhppsMke^George, Why the people of Scotland did not love bnhops f ■Becaufe favs George, they are like old beggars advanced tobe rulen over borrow men, ftill inftruding them in things theyknow sot them {elves, ordering them to carry Hones to th*builders, which they will not rec.ive, and which tncy them,felves had never power to move; the Scots havmg knowledge-et this hate to fee the bilhop* have great lordfh.ps tor theirignorance, and the poor labourers have little or nothing forthcirtoil. One of the bUhops looking at George with an angrycountenance, anf ered, faying, Thou Sept muft be made *bifhop yourfelf, and the bifhops made pnefls, and that wdlfervewell for your turn. No. no, laid George, that wdl not^o, for if X be made a bifhop I’ll have no oroken W(hops toferve as prkfts under me, for they are fuel, bad mafiers theywill become the word of all fervants. At this the two Whop,left the room in a great paffion, lesvmg George and the youngpriefl only by themlelves- Now,now, fay* George, this proves ;the bifhops to be but hirelings, and not true diepherd., (point¬ing to the young prieft ) you fee they have fled for their owafafety, end left vou a lamb before the mouth ot me a tox, andwho knows but I may worry you. Run, tun, too, maHerfteep, fays George, and if you have eyes, guide thofe twoblind Ihep-hcrds down Hairs, and over ditches, but I am afra.dyou will all tumble in a ditch together, tl,« ruled fuch anindignation in the bifhops breafls, that thay defired no rorccf George’s company au*l converfation. _One time after this, George being ra the country, aMttwenty miles diHant from tondon, *nd oo his way hosafffcere'came after him a fine gilded coach, which George waiinformed belonged to the Bifhop of Canterbury, atid was go¬ing to London for his lordlhip. George addreffed himfclf tothe coachman for to have a paffage with him in the coach toLondon : fio he bargained with the coachman fortwo dollars,to carry him to the Bell Inn on London bridge ; the one hegavebin in hand and the ether as foon as ever he would fee himout of the coach door ; fo away the coachman drives for Londonin all hade, in which time George wrote the following Motto ;Here fits the Bifhop of CanterburyWho at the fchools difdain’d to tarry,Far better fkill’d in games than preaching,And yet 1 e lives by other* teaching.Blind leaders of the blind indeed,*ris blind and lame who chariots need ;Six brutes with eyes this brute doth carty*I mean the Bifhop of Canterbury.My feet being lame, I gave a dollar,To be drove in date like you a Icholar :For yrbich myfelf I do abhor.Shame caus’d me make another doer.Thefe lines being battered upon the infide of the coach, andvben he came within a mile cf London, took a knife and cut* great hole in the back fide of the coach where he came out,and to make his promife good to the coachman that he wa*to give the other dollar as foon as ever he faw him come out ofthe coach door. The poor coachman drove on till he came U*the forefaki inn where he ajighted and opened the door to let| his paffenger out, but feeing the coach empty and a great holein -he back fide of it, he cried out he believed he had the de*Ivil in his coach, and he had taken away the backfideof it with,tfcim. The people of the inn came all flocking about to fee whatjwas done ; and thr i feeing the lines in tht infide of the coach*| which the bilhop came and red fiimfclf, they all concluded it to|be done by George hut could make nothing of it, for the bifhopfaid. To purfue him would Only make it worfe and no better,George was invited one day by a great lav^yer to come andTee a fine building which he had lately built of fine free ftoneaand marble. He defired George to guefs what it was builtwith ; George anfwers, Do you. think that I do' not knovwwhat it is built with ? No you do not fays the lawyer. Yes*1 do, fays Geor ge, it cannot ftaod long for malice and hatredn the mortar of it, and the flails ate the heads of fool i fitfcoplc, polilhed over with the, tongue of an afs,—-Qi fir Jrion’tyou remember that an afs was made an advocate, and♦poke ugainft Bs’aam? The lawyer to this would give nofsnfwc,, but took good night of George.Three merchant pedlars ( as they profeffed to be ) came with.a pack of goods to put a trick upon a widow woman who keptan inn on the highway fide. After they had drunken revy near-XYf they d‘fired the woman to lay up the pack fee;rely, andCharged her dire a!) bcfoA witi'ifPes to give it to none of them ;tinlcfs they carnet all together for itagaiq. And about threC:weeks there after, two of them returned and defi ed the wo-*man to give the n the pack, telliug her, that the- other mart;was gone to fuch^a fair with another paek, where they were,all to meet, and they were fellow travellers conjuft in trade,and how they had alt aright »0 the pack alike.; whereupon,,tlie poor fuupie woman, not dread ng ny farther hi.’m gavethem the pack. * So in a few days thereafter the other man ’conies and demands the pack. The honefl woman told him,,plainly that the other two men had been there before and gotk away. Then ha began to demonftrate to the woman whatgreat dinger file was in, and forthwith raifed a proCeft againvther by law, which coaft the poor woman a fall of money todefend, as the plea continued more thvn two full years ; ana.a great court one day being to fit upon the procefs to decideit, which ..would undoubtedly have been done In favour of thepWftier, the proof being lo ch-.r, and the worjen not denyingwhat the bargain was when (he got tjic pack to keep. 1 hepoor woman being in grate flraits, her purfe being turnedempty, and her attorney told her plainly as her money wasgone, he could no longer defend her. 1 he woman once more|plncked up her heart and went to London to employ a new at¬torney to (peak for her; but for want of gold (he could get J10 j1*',to undertake it. George being in a houfe where he neard t icpoor widow making a mournful complaint .0 one of the at¬torneys who gave her no forafort or futisfactmti, for wheel Ctold him (he had no money to fpend, or give in defence of it»the attorney went away and would hear no more of the wo-,tnan’s grievous eon.plainf, which made .George !augh verylieartily, while the poor woman fat weeping like one dectract-ed. Poor woman fays George you need not think that man■willfpeak a word for you or any one elfe,' unlefs you hadfcrotght him a purfe of gold to lofe his tongue ; but as I bav»wot a fcheme of the matter, you may go home and have pa¬tience till ibe time come, aud then my life for yours poo. wo-SraR, I will fend you an attorney.who will da your hutmeistoi( *9 )nothing. He gave the poor woman more courage than anjpfhe bad fpoke with in London ; for every one told her that allthe attorneys in the world could not free her. So according¬ly at the d-j y appointed George dreflitd himfclf like an attor¬ney, with his gown, apd every tiling as it he had been fp.• The court being fenced, and. the proofs read orer the ex-pcnce and value of the p^tk having amounted to about levenhundred pounds, was mdered to be put in a decreet again#the poor widow, whxh every-one was bemoaning, but couldgive her no relief. Now George kept' hitnfelf filent, hearingthem all with great patience, and the very nick of time, hethought proper to addrefs himfclf to che judges as follows!“ My Lords, judges, and gentleman of this honourable courtand company, 1 Lave come from London gratis, oat of pur*pity to fpcak a word or two in favour of this poor woman,who hath fpent a! ' her means in defence of a falfe accufatioarailed again ft her: and now when her money is gone, herfpeakers are dumb, and I fee none to pleadLhe caufc of thi«poor widow. Now when ft^tenec is upon the brink of beingpronounced againft her, I earneftiy dtlare this court, to molifyand drop thcwxpences altogether: it is enough when the pcocwoman hath the pack to pay ; for you all know the p*or wo¬man was no ways enriched by it, when the other two men gotit away.” Then the pmfuer’s atorney mad* an anfwer asfollows :—“ Sir I would have thought yon, who have comefrom London and profcffctk to be. a doftor of law, ihouldknow better things ; know you no: that he who gains the plea,gains the expences as well as the fum, be what it will ” Tesit mult and ftiall be fo too, faid the judges. Then faid George,That is all I want: which let the whole court a laaghing,thinking he was a fool,, and become an adverfory to the poorwoman. Give over your fport, gentlemen, fays George, Ihave not done yet.“ My Lords judges, you’ll hear rn’e in this: if the poor we-man made a bargain with this merchant, and other two whawas with him for to keep that pack fafely, and deliver it tonone of them till they were all three prefent, now let thatman who is here at this time go and ftek the other two, andthey (hall have the pack, for (he has the pack fafe enough, butfhe will keep by her fiift bargain. So I refer to you judgesand gentleman, if this poor woman be not in the right.” Tflismade the judges look one to another : and the whole courtwith one voice, deila.ed the woman was in the right, and or¬dered the pujfucr to go and fcck hb t .vo companions. Nb,V 5° / •*o, Tays (rcorge, the poor wrvfian mufl fir ft hsve her expense^«r furetf tor it. Then the judges eaufed the purfuer to bearrefted at the b.tr ; ynti I the women, got fatisfa&ion for alther trouble and expenees. So George returned to Londonunknown but For an advocate, whofe f'i;ne was fpread over all^England*; whitli cauled many who bad law fuits to fearch"thro* London for him, but could not find him who had gained'the widbw*s law pica.George being one day in thecotintry, and coming thro* a vil¬lage, there came a great mafliff dog and gripped him by the leguntil the blood followed his long .ecth, George with one ftrokc-*of hiscanecame over his eye-until he fell down and died on theIpot: ’ Fis well for thee, fays George, that I killed- the beforetbon was brought to juft ice, for thou had certainly been bangedfor what thou haft done, and thy mafterfeverciy Sued for keepingthee. The owner of the dog hearing George Ay fo, went ofj■without fpeakrng a word p George, for fca. it had been fo,. A country gentleman came one time and enquired at George:what he thought was the reafon he loft every law init or plealie frt his face to, tho* never fo j#.r a claim, the law wellt ftill :Sgainft him ? George alkcd him whom he emeloyed ? He toldliim he was one of the be ft and ableft attorneys in England^'Yes, fays George, I believe be may be fo, but when you goto law again, if you have a mind, to win it, when you giveyour own attorney one guinea, give your advelary two ; forthofe attorneys are much after the nature ol an afs, they won’tfpeak right if y ou do not throw a mul titude of angels beforethem, (meaningpieces of Englift money called angels,by name,)‘‘I’lie gentlera-u returned in a few weeks thereafter and hear¬tily thanked George for his good advice, for he was not afraid,now but he could gain an/ pica he took in hand, whether itwas juft or not.Two drunken fellows one day fell a beating one another inthe ftreets of London, which caufed a great crowd of peoplethrong together to fee what it was; a jtaylor being at work up.in a high garret about three or four ftories high, and he hear¬ing a noife in the ftreet looked over the window, but could notwell fee them, he began to ftrctch himfelf, making a long neckuntil he fell down out of the. window, and aliRbted on an oldman who was walking on the ftr- > :. 'I he poor taylor was moreafraid than hurt, but the old man on whom he fell died dire&ly.His fon caufed the taylor to be apprehended, and tried for themurder of his father.. The jury could not bring it-in as a wilfuWirdrr neither could they altegether'acqmt the taylor ; tWt 3> 1bry gare it Over to the judges, and the judges to the king,the king aficed Georges advice in this Mrd matter. Why,lays George, I1!) give you i opirjon in a minure; you muftlufc the taylor hand in tlie Itrect in the place where the oldrentlemas was when !.e was killed by the ta>lor, and thou let:he old gentlemao’s fon, the taylor^ adverfary go up to the win-low i'rom whence the tayior ftlj and jump, down and njll thefaylor as he did his father, for [ can do no more in it: you fe©|it was a great mercy fo r the taylor he had the old- gentlemanslow fum, or elfe he had been killed on the fpot., and that itras the old gentleman’s lot or misfortune to die there. Thetayler’s adverfary hearing this fentsnee parted, he would notrenturc to jump over the windo v ; fo tlit tsylor got clear oSVPART VI.EORGE being one night in company with fome Englifltlobleman in prefence of the king, they began to demonftrat©‘ach a fine place aa England w: ?, both for beautiful building*ind fruitful fields. One gentleman faid he knew a place inEngland, though they fhould crop the grafs even with theground at night, and lay down a crown on it before an huu-3rcd witnefles, and againfr to-morrow you would not kno\rwhere-tq. find it. This may feem very llrange to fome,Seorge, but it is no myftcry to me, knowing there would b©enough of them who law the crown piece laid down, readye.jough to come and take it up before to-morrow. But faysGeorge, I know a place in the weft of Scotland, 'vhere if youtether a horfe at night, againft the next morning you will notfce him What a pox will take him away 1 fays the Englifh-wan. Only fuch people fays Geo ge, as will take away yoursrown piece O ! lays the Englifhman, you know what I mean.Then, lays George, you talk much of towns you hawe iaEngland. I know three towas in poor Scotland for proper¬ties you have rone fuch. Pray, lays the nobleman, what &r©thele piopertica ? Why, fays George. I know one town wher©there are au hundered bone bridges in it; another towu wher©there ate fifty draw bridges in it; another town where tho* aman commits murder, treafon* or owes never fo much money,if be runs to that town, grtsiu below a flair, no law nor jultic©can t arm him- 1 he nobleman ordered immediately to flake a©hundred pounds that there were no fuch towns in Europe, be«£des in Scotland. Th$]r defired George but to tell the name*tf thelc towns, for they would find them out, and knowVbttkcr be vu » liar <u «ot j in ht teW. tlwir ©suits, «©4men Wfre lent to Scotland to fee. The firfl. was Buddingfton, ’’near Edinburgh,! when they came there and alked for the jbone bridge*, the people (liewed them altnott between c-very door, of the fkulls of fheepheads, which they ufed as flep- ;ping ftoRes- 'I he fecond was a little country village, betweenStirling and Perth, called Auchterarckr, where there is a largefirar.d, and which rana through the middle of the town, and .almoft at every door, there is a flock or ftene laid over the-flrand, where on they pa fled to the oppofite neighbours*and when a flood came thcyeould lift there woeden bridges incafe they fliould be taken away ; and thefe they called theirdraw bridges. ThethVrd was a village near Cambafnethnn, whichthey pafled from the one end to the other, but there was nota flair in it all: fo they returned to England, and told whatkind of bone and draw bridge* they were, and how that thereWas not a flair in all that place, therefore no man could run in1»1qw it.Now George being old and highly advanced in years, find- •ing his natural flreagth and ftatt of health decaying he peti-tioned King Jame* to let him return to Scotland to vifit hir ;flriends and lands of his nativity ; which he willingly granted,(not thinking that his defign was never to return ; J for Georgehad a great defire to rtfi'gn his foul and breath in that pj,rt ofthe world where he received them, and that his body and boncenight be laid among his anceflors, which was counted:a greathonour in former times.So aecordingly George e**e to the parifh of Buchanan, onthe weft of Scotland', whereDy be vifiteti all his friends and re¬lations before his death, during which', the king fent feveralwieffage* for him to return in all the hafte he could; but heablolutely tefufed, tel; .g him, that he would never fee him .again, which grieved the king very much to hear him exprtfshim leif in that manner.. After this Vie king fcnt h im a let-rter, threatning him very lharply, if he did not appear in Lon¬don in the fpace of ten days he fhould bring him to Londonwhether he would or not. Unto which as an anfwer, Georgefcnt him a famous letter of admonition, both anent the go¬vernment of hit kingdom, and the wclft being of hi* foul ;which eaufed the king weep very bitterly, when he read it o-W, with the following vtrfe :My honour’d leige, and fqvercign King,Of your boafting great I dread nothing !On your feud and favour I’ll fcarccly vehtiire-'Ere that day,' I’ll be where few kings enter.tQi THE EiPi-OIIS.