The Unpardonable Sin againft the HolyGhost; or, the Sin ynto Death.ASERMONB YROBERT RUSSEL,at Wardhurst in Sussex;l John v. j6. If any man fee bis brother fin a fin■which is not unto death) he fhall ajk} and he (hallgive him life for them that fin not unto death.There is a fin unto death : I do not fay, that hefhall pray for it.SK\.7r\rTf\mmmI ' OF SCOTLAND - IG L A S G O W:Printed and Sold by J. and J. ROBERTSONMDqqLXXVI.C 2 ]r iOf THE UNPARDONABLE SINAGAINST TUBHOLY GHOST;O R,TheSIN unto DEATH,I John v. partofvcr. 16. There is a Sin unto Death*THIS fin which St. John calls here, ‘The fin‘ unto death,’ is the unpardonable fin agairifl:the Holy Ghoft, delcribed by our blcfled Saviour,Matth. xii. 32. That whofoever commits it hath noforgiveneft, neither in this world, nor in the worldto come. For, All manner of fin and blafphemy,Jball be forgiven unto men : but the blafpkcmy againftthe Holy Ghofi fhall not be forgiven unto men. Andhe that fpeaketh a word againfl the Son it [hall beforgiven him s but whofoever fpeaks againft the HolyGhojty Jhall never be forgiven^ neither in this world,nor in the world to come. This fin againlt the HolyGhoft, is that fin which St.John calls here, ‘ The fin‘ unto'death.’ Not becauie that fin deferves death a-lone, for fo does a'l fin deferve death, both tempo¬ral and eternal, for the wages of fin, even all fin, isdeath, Rom. vi. 23. But this fin againft the HolyGhoft is called ‘ The fin unto death,’ becaufc it bindsa man over to eternal death without any polfibilityof recovery. Now fome there are, that go on fiomone degree of fin to another; they heighten and ag¬gravateOf the Unpardonable Sin, IxCo jgravate their fins more and more, until they arebrought to that height at laft, as to commit that finFor which there is no forgivenefs.There is no mere m m fince the fallxan live with¬out fin, for all are finners ; but yet there are degreesof fin; fome fins in their own nature are fmall, o«thers are more great and hainous. Many fins thereare that are gr: at, yet pardonable, and one fin thereis, unpardonable; and wholoever commitsahat onefin thall have no forgiveneft, but muft for ever bearthe weight and punilhment both of that, and of allhis other fins. There is fitch a fin as St. John fpeaksof here in my text, that is, * a fin unto death.’ Andnow l come to the explication of the words, fromwhence I, (hall railc this point of doftrine.Dot}.') ‘ That arnongft othei fins committed by fid-S* len mankind, there is only one fin, that is a Jin* to death, and whofoever committeth that, he hatht * no forgivenefs, neither in this world, nor in thei * world to come.’Now for my further proceeding on this fubjeft, I•./nail lay open to you,Firjl, What ‘ the fin unto death* is.11 Secondly, That all other fins, how great and ha'fIhous foever, may be forgiven.Thirdly, That this fin alone Ihali never be forgiyen„fl Fourthly, The reafon why this fin alone is unpar*lonable. And then,i La/lly, I ftiall conclude all with a few words ofap*location.I I Hull begin firft with tli$ defeription of this un-ikrdonable lin ; where 1 (hall endeavour to make a*gain .1 defeription of it as poffible I can; and in do-'gofit, I (hall, i. Shew you negatively, what is|»t this fin. 2. [ (hall (hew you pofitively what it is..;i. I (hail (hew you negatively, what is not the finjjto death ; or in what degree a man may fin, andA 2 yet4 Of the Unpardonable Sinyet not commit that unpardonable fin acainfi the Holy Ghofi.t. It h not e\’ery quenching of the motions of theSpirit, that is this fin. It is true, when the Holy Ghoftcomes with a flill voice, and knocks at the door offinners hearts fonentrance, he often comes and ftriveswith them, and fecrctly wooes and befeeches them toleave their fins and be converted; yet they quenchand fhfle all his motions, and bear up their hearts a-gainll him.'and will not be obedient to the heavenlycalls: now fuch, fingi tcvoufiyagainft the Holy Ghoft ;but yet this alone is not the unpardonable fin againftthe Holy Ghoft, for many that have ftood it out along time, and have often quenched and grieved theHoly Spirit, yet at laft they have been wrought uponunto fincere converfion.2. A man may commit many hainous and cryingfins, and yet not be guilty of the unpardonable fin a-gainft the Holy Ghoft A man may be an idolater, awhoremonger, a fornicator, a murthercr, and work Iwitchcraft, and fin with a very high hand} nay, hemay live in ail manner of filthinefsand lewdnefs, andyet not be under the guilt of the unpardonable fin a-gainft the Holy Ghoft. Thus we read, 2 Chron.xxxiii. that M mafleh finned with a very high hand; Ihe was an idolater, and inchanter, and worked witch¬craft, agd dealt with familiar 1'pirits, and wroughtmuch evil in the fight of the Lord. And Mary Mag¬dalen had feven devils caft out of her, Luke viii. 2.and yet both were pardoned.3. A man may fin prefumptuoufiy agaioft greatlight and knowledge, and yet not commit thi$ fin un-jito death 1 for, Peter when he denied Chrift, he did#it againft great knowledge of Chrift, he knew Chriftlto be his Lord and Saviour, he was one of Chrift’abeloved dildples, and for ail that, how ftrongiy hq-agamfl the Holy Ghcjt,5for all that, Chrift looked upon him with a mercifuleye, and he repented and was forgiven.4. ,It is not every malicious fin that is the unpar->donable fin againft the holy Ghoft; for St. Paul cer¬tainly had great malice in his heart, when he wenton fo furioufiy to perfeeme the church of Go)2, andyet he was converted, and became a preacher of thegofpel of Chrift, which before he perfecuted5. And Laftly, It is not final unbelief, nor finalimpenitence, that is the unpardonable fin againft theHoly Ghoft, though fome be of opinion that it is,bec'aule that fin is unpardonable, and Ghrift himfelfhath find, Matth. xxii. 31. That all manner of Jin andhlafphemy (hall be forgiven unto man, except it bethe fin againft the Holy Ghojl. But you are to takethe words of our Saviour in their true (enfe and mean¬ing ; it is all manner of fin and b’afphcmy commir-ted within the compafi of a man’s life that foali beforgiven, except the fin againft the Holy Ghoft;for the fin of final impenitence and final unbelief,is not compleated until the very moment of a Rian’sdeath ; and then you (hall know that there is no re¬pentance, and confequently no papdon after death;for Chrfft faid, He that fins again]} the Holy Ghofl,hath no forgivenejs, neither in this zoorld, nor in the•world to come. Now, why (hould Ghrift fay in this■world, if there be no fpace to be forgiven in thisworld? but a man may commit the unpardonablefin againft the Holy Ghoft, even many years beforebis deith. Bcfides, there ?re many thoufands thatdie in impenitence and unbelief, and ate damned,and yet never committed the unpardonable fin a-gainft the Holy Ghoft.Thus have I (hewed you negatively, what is notthis unpardonable fin; none of thofe fins in particu¬lar is that fin.II. I come how to (hew you pofitivcly, what thisfm untp death is, and wherein this unpardonable .finagamll5Of fie Utfirdenabk Shiagainftthe Holy Ghcft doth coufift. Now there atefevers] opinions in the world about it, but I wH! en¬deavour, through God’s help; to lead you to the plainfight of it by the light of the holy Scripture.Now, in the firfl place, you muft know, that thereare kvo forts of people that cannot commit this un*pardonable fin-The true believers cannot commit it, becaufe it isa fin ngainfl great ligh1 and knowledge. Indeed thegreateft part of the world fha-l be damned ; yet amongtbegreateft part there are but few of them that cancommifthat unpardonable fin againft theHolyGhoft.Some have both lightand grace, thefcihall not com¬mit the unpardonable fin. Again, fpme have neitherlight nor grace, thele cannot commit that unpardon¬able fin againft ihe Holy Ghoft. Now there mu;l be»wo ing'edients to make up this unpardonable fin;that is, light in the head, and malice in the heart;without theft two, the fin againft the Holy Ghoft can¬not be committed; for ro fin againft great light andknowledge, is not that'fin ; nor yet to fin ignorantlywithout maliye, is that fin ; but they muil both joinsogether, to make up this unpardonable fin This welee plainly by the example of St Peter and St. Paul ;Peter denied Chrift, and forfwaie himielf too, andthatgripvoufly, againft fight and knowledge: for heknew Ghrtft to be the only begotten Son of God* andhi. know God lit him ; he was one of ChrifPsdilciples,and one of his beloved dilciples too ; he was taughtof Chrift. and had experimental knowledge of Ids loveand favour, and he wickedly with an oath deniedhim. Now if Peter had done this out of malice andfpite, th;n he had committed that Jin unto dutitb,for .which there is no forgivtnefs; but Peter had no?n like in his heatf all this while, even at the timewhen be deni-, d Chnft, as you may fee in Matth. xxvi.34> 35- When Chrift told him, before the cock crowthou Lh-d t deny me tin ice; he anlwered, JJ JJbouldagain/} the Holy GhrJi. 7die •with thee, I will not deny thee ; and then denyinghim thro'igb inhrmity and weaknefs of thewhen he had confidered what he had done, he wentout and wept bitterly, verie 7^. But Paul had grea’imalice and fpite againft the ways and people of God,as you may lee Atts ix. 1. Paul breathed out threat-rings and daughters againft the dilciples of the Lord,and went to the high prieft, defiring ©f him letters toDamafcus, to the lynagogues, that if he found anyin his way, whether men or women, he fhould bringthem bound to Jerufalem. Now here was great rsgeand malice in Saul againft the way* and the peopleof God: but doing it ignorantly, he at laft heard avoice faying, Saul, Saul, why perftcutejl thou me?and (eeing a light from heaven, and hearing it wasJef s that he pcrfecuted, he was pricked at the heart,and trembling and aftonilhed find, Lord, what wiltthou have me to do ? Now by thefs two places of ferip •lure you mayplainly fee, that Peter finned againftgreat light, and Paul out of great malice, yet nei¬ther of them committed the unpardonable fin againftthe Holy Ghoft. But whenfoever light and malicemeet together in one man, (hen theie is the fin a-gainft the Holy Ghoft. Now, as all other fins, fois this fin againft the Holy Ghoft. -1. In thought *, that is, when a wicked man, againfthis clear light and knowledge, doth but conceive amalicous thought or purpofc towards perfecuting thegofpel of Chrift, or of the faints of Chrift, to hinderthe work of the Holy Ghoft in them.This fin, as is to be thought, was the fin of the loftangels, for which caufs they were loft without allhopes of pardon. Now fome difpute, whether this finwas a fin of the thought; but I fay in all likelihoodit was; for the angels being only fpirirs, without bo¬dies, and fo having no ule of bodily tongues, it couldnot be committed in word, nor yet could they com-niit it in action, bscaufe they were caft out of heaven,A 4 / before8Of the Unpardonable Sinbefore they could bring it into practice; therefore itmuft be a lin of the thought.Mow the fm was this: their habitation being in thehigi'.eft heavens, and unde/ God himtclf, they had ex*feeding great light and knowledge: they had moreknowledge than all the men in the world ever had,and were ha}'pyabove all other creatures.' bur, whennot being contented with this eflate, they thought tobe as high as God himfelf, therefore they malic'ioudyfought to make war againft the Son of God*, and puthim out of his throne; for which caufe they wereimmediately thruft out of heaven, never more to feethe face of mercy; and thusfrgm the beginning .theyhave been counted malicious and revengeful, as ragingbeads, and as roaring lions: thus their fin being oithe fitne nature with the fin againft the Holy Ghoft,they were excluded alt hopes of pardon.But that the fin of our fird parents was not the un¬pardonable fin againf: the Holy Ghoft, is clear; forthough they firmed againft great light, yet they obey¬ed, and complied with the will df God, even whenthe tempter came, untilat laft they were enticed andovercome;, but they did not fall maliciouily, and fowere not excluded all poffibiiuy of mercy.2. This fin may be committed in word too; that is,when a man fpeaketh blafphemoufly and maliciouflyof Chrift and his holy ways.- This was the fin of theScribes and Pharilees, Mark iii. 22. There were cer¬tain Scribes came and /aid this felkw hath Beelzt-bub, and eafteth out devils by the prince of devils.Therefore fiiith Chrift unto them, ver. 28, 29. Ve¬rily J fay unto ycu, all fins fliall be forgiven to thefens of men, a id blafphemics' wherewith they (hallhlafpbcme; but iuhe/oever fall blajpkem; again;}the Hbly i • bo/l hath never forgiventf, but is in eua-gtr of eternal damnation.Mow the rtafon of this fptech of dur b’efcd Savi¬our, is thevro ip ver. 30. btcaufo they find, he hathanagair.fl th: Holy Chofi.9in unclean fpiriti which plainly (hews that theftScribes had (pokenblafphemy sgainft the Holy Ghoft :as theft Scribes were great learned men, they cbuldknow no other K't that ChriH w'as the Son of God,and mufl know that he caft out devils by the Spirit6of Gcd, and yet they out of fpire to Chrift, mallei-oufly and b}afphemoufly (aid, That he cajl cut de*vili by Beelzebub the prince cf devils. Thus theScribes committed the unpardonable fin againft the .Holy Ghoft, and that in word.3. This fin may he committed in aftion toc; thaKis, when a man being once thoroughly enlightened,having entered upon a holy com ft oflife. and-fadedthe comforts of Gpd’s Spirit, and fome foretafle ofthe joys of heaven, and not only makes profdlicn ofthe gofpsl, but teadies'it to others; yet at laft fakesa dillike to the holy courfes, and through (pite andmalice utterly ferftkes, oppofes, and perftcutes thofegood ways of God, which he before profellcd andtaught. But to fum hp this pcinr, this unpardonablefin r.gaind the Holy Ghoft is fully deferibed by theapeffe to the Hebrews, chap. x. 26, 27, 29 For ij•we Jin •wilfully after ive have received the knowledgeof the truth, there remaircth no increjacrijice forjin, but a fearfnLJooking for of judgment, and fieryindignation, which fha.ll devour the atverfaries. Ofhow much forer punifhnunt fhall he he thought wor¬thy, who bath trodden tender foot the Son of God,and counted the blood of the covenant, wherewithbe was fanilificd, an unholy thing, and hath donede (pite to the Spirit of grace? Like-wife, Heb. vi. 4,5,6 For it is impoffible j\,r thofe who were madepartakers of the H'-ly Ghofl, and have tailed thegood word of Gcd, and the powers of the world to come,,< they fall away, to renew them again to repentance,feeing they crucify to them]elves ajrejh the Son ofGod, and put him to open fhame.Now che fin agaihit the Holy Ghoft is briefly this ?"r>v' itIO Of the Unpardonable Sinit is a wilful and malicious oppofing the known truth,joined with final apoftacy.1 fhall a little explain thcfi: words, and then pro*cced.1. Th is fin unto death is an oppofing fin ; now tooppole a thing, is to contradict it, or gainfay it; aswhen a man lays a thing is fo and lo, he denies it,and fays it is not fo; or when a man fays a thingmuft bfc done, he fays again it n>uft not, or it lhallnot be done; fijeh an oppofition is in the heart ofhim that commits this unpardonable fin; but a manmay be an oppofing man, and yet may not committhis fin : .Therefpre,2. It is the truth he mufioppofe ; that is, he muftutterly oppofe and rejett Chrill, who laid, lam thetruth, John xiv. 9. He oppofeth all his threatnings,and will not believe his promifes, and counts the bloodof the covenant to be an unholy thing: nay, he allboppofeth the Spirit of Chrifi, who is the Spirit oftruth; fo that he will not obey his motions, and willnot be led nor guided by him; but a man may op¬pofe the truth, and do it ignorantly: Therefore,, 3. It mufl be the known truth that he oppolcth;he muft be once enlightened: but you muft know, itis not only a rational knowledge, and human learn¬ing, for he may know much of God, and of his will,in the letter of his word, and yet not be capable ofcommitting this unpardonable fin : but he muft be fofar enlightened as to fee the evil that is in fin, andthe excellency of Chrift; heinuft tafte of the heaven¬ly gift, and be made partaker of the Holy Ghoft; andtaiieof the good word ofGpd, and the powers of theworld to come; and by the blood of the covenant,which he counts as an unholy thing, he is ifi partfanttified and cleanled from many fins: he muft havefweet communion with God in his word and facra-ment; he muft have fome tafte of the love and fa¬vour of God. and comforts of his Spirit, and be re-frefhedagain ft the Holy Ghojl. *1frefhed by it, and tafte of the joys of heaven, andhave fome foretade of the happinefs of the world tocome.This is that light and knowledge that la-:? a manopen to the committing of that unpardonable fin : butyet a man may fin againft all this light and eKperi-memal kngwledge, and yet do it through the weak-siefsof the fielh, or through fome violent temptations,is Peter did when he denied Ghrifl: Therefore, '4. He-muft oppofe the known truth wilfully; hemud wilfully fall away, after he hath received theknowledge of the truth* other fins are committedthrough infirmity", but this fin is wilful, the will isthe chief after in it; and to-compleat and make-upthis unpardonable fin, there is,5. Malice in the heart; Without this, this fin can¬not be committed ; it mud be a malicious oppofingofthe known truth; that is, when a man being onceenlightened and having faded of the heavenly gift,and the good word of God, arid hath been made par¬taker of the Holy Ghoft, and hath had fome fweetrelifh and foretafle of heaven, he comes to take a dif-iike, and to hate the holy ways of God,« and mallei-oufty oppofe and perfecute them, in defpirc of theSpirit of grace, crucifying afrdK the Son of God,and putting him to open lhame.Now a man having gone thus far, he comes in thehfi place to be an apottate; for thus to oppofe wil¬fully and malicioully the known truth, is always join¬ed with, final and total apoflacyT, for he that is lo farenlightened as to fee the evil of fin, and the exccllen*cy ofGhrill and holinefs, and hath been made parta¬ker oftheHoly Ghofi,of his graces and comforts, andtailed of God’s love and favour in Jefus Ghrift, andhas fome foretaile of the joys of the world to come;for inch a one wilfully, fpitefully, and malicioufiy tofall away, lie lb fills, as never to rile more. : I'is trpe,the : hiidren ol God fall.and that often, and rife again:but12Of the Unpardonable Sinbin then they fall through vveaknefs or infirmity,and not wilfully or malictoufly: but thefe wickedwretches fall wilfully and malicioully, and lb fall fi¬nally. ,-gainft fuch, the door of mercy is ever fbut;concerning fuch. St. Peter faid, It bad been betterfor them not to have known the way of righteaufnefs, than after they had known it to turn fromthe holy commandment delivered unto them; but ithappened unto them according to the true proverb,'Ihe dog is returned to his vomit again, and {he few■that was wafljsd, to her wallowing in the mire, 2Pet. ii. 21, 2 2. There is a dreadful place in feriptureagainft thele kind of apafiates, that is, Heb. x. 26. .For if we Jin wilfully after we have received theknowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more fa-crifice jor Jin, but a fearful looking for of judgmentand fiery indignation. Thus have I given you fiveflops as lb many links in a chain, all which make upthe unpardonable fin againft the Holy Ghoft. It isa wilful and malicious oppofing of rhe known truth,joined with final apofiacy. Thus have I fiiewed you,as plain as I can, what this fin unto death is.Secondly. The next thing to be confiJered is, Thatall otherTius or blafphemies whatfoever may be for¬given ; be our fins never lb great and many, thoughwe be the vileft wretches that ever lived, yet there ishope of pardon upon repentance. Manafieh was thevileft wretch that ever we read of, yet he repentedand was pardoned; alfo Mary Magdalen was thechief of Tinners, for out of her came leven devils, yet,becaufe (lie loved much, much was forgiven her. Aman may be a whoremonger, an adulferer, and workwitchcraft, and deal with familiar fpirits, and yet atlift he may repent and be faVed ; and yet I have heardtalk of feme that are fo foo!i(h as to take the fin offornication for an unpardonable I'm, from God’s ownwords in the fourth commandment. I the Lord thyCod ays a jealous God, vijiting the fins of the fathers,againfi the Holy Ghofl. 13,upon the children, unto the third and fourth genera*tion : From whence they fay, that children that arcbafe born, are not faved unto the third and fourthgeneration: But this is a rhofl; erroneous interpreta¬tion of God’s word: it is thofe that hate him, andcontinue hating of him, that he will inflifl their ini¬quities upon: for fornicators and adulterers them-felves may repent and he faved, much more the chil¬dren who knew nothing, nor could help nothing: forChrift with his own mouth tells the feribesand pha-rifees, Matih. xxi. 31. That the publicans and harlotsfhall enter into the kingdom of heaven before them:For there is no fin but what is pardonable, except thefin againft the Holy Ghofh But,Thirdly, This fin againft the Holy Ghoft, is alonethe fin unto death; that is, a fin unpardonable, ne¬ver to be forgiven, neither in thisworlcf, nor in theworld to come : not becaufe the merits of Chrjft arenot fufficient to pardon it, for this fin, as well as o-ther fins, is but finite, whereas the merits of Chriftare infinite.Objeft What is the reafon then that this Jin cannotbe forgiven?Anfw. This queftion brings me to the fourth thingconfiderable: Do but mind me a little, and I will,as plain and as clear as 1 can, tell you what the rea¬fon is. •This fin is called the fin againft the Holy Ghoft,not bicaufe it is a fin againft the perfbn of the HolyGhoft, for fo is all fin againft his perfon ; but it iscalled the fin againft the Holy Ghoft, becaufe it is a-gainft the office and work of the Holy Ghoft. Nowevery one of the three Perfons have their particularwork Fhe work of the Father is to create; the workof the Son is to redeem loft finners ; and the work ofthe Holy Ghoft is to enlighten, convince, fanflify,and convert them. Now a man committing this un¬pardonable fin againft the Holy Ghoft, rejeds all.thisworkOf the Unpardonable Sinwork of the Spirit. Now for a man to be thorough*ly enlightened by the 9oly Ghoft, that he comes toknow the evil of tin* and his loft and undone condi*tion without Chrift, and that none but the merits of‘Chrift can fave him ; and norwithftanding wilfullyand malicioufly oppofe him, and the work of his Spi¬rit, and refule to be beholden to him for lalvation ;now for fuch a one, I fay, to be forgiven, is utterlyimpoffible.. Object-. But why is it impoffible ? Nothing is imp ofJible with God?Anfw, Nothing is impoflible with God, that doesnot imply a contradiction : but that God will forgivethe fin committed againft the Holy Ghoft, implies acontradi&ion : For how can he have pardon givenhim that utterly rejects it ? As for inftance- .A man through ignorance may deny Ghrift, (nay,malicioufly fall from the profeflion of the truth intoail kind of wickednefs, as did St. Paul, and the Jewsthat crucified Chrift) yet not failing againft light andknowledge, there is room for the Holy Ghoft to workupon him, to enlighten him, and to convince him ofhis folly, and fg make way for conveifion. But foraman, when he is once enlightened by the Holy Ghoft,and has had fome tafieqf God’s love and favour, andfome foretafte of the joys of heaven, and then at laid,utterly oppofing this illuminating work of the Spirit,wilfully and malicioufly to fall away, and fo to rejectthe Spirit’s renewing work; alas! then the HolyGhoft is done, he hasmothing more then that he canwork in him, for this wretched creature has utrerlyrejefted him, his enlightening work, his convincingwork, his fanftifying work; he has utterly rejectedChrift’s pardon, heaven and a]l. Now this poor wretchis part all hopes of mercy, all hopes of pardon; nay,for luch a one we are forbidden to pray; as you feein the verfe whereof my text is a part. Now Chnitprayed for them that malicioufly crucified him, Lukexxni.againjl the Holy Ghojl. j gxxiii. 34. faying, Father, forgive them, for theyknow not what they do. Alas! they knew not whatthey were doing, for had they known if, they wouldnot have crucified the Lord of glory, t Cor. ii. 8.But if they had known, and yet have crucified him,Chrift would not have fpent his breath to pray forthem; for it would have been utterly in vain: forwhen a man has committed this unpardonable fin,neither the praying in heaven nor earth can do himany good; for the text faith, There is a Jin untodeath.I (hall conclude with a few words of application ;and I will be as fhort as poflible, lell this difcourfefoould be too large for fo fraali a book: here is:Fir ft, A word of comfort.Secondly, A word of counlehFirfl, A word of comfort. It may be that by hear¬ing and reading of this terrible dilcourfe, your heartsbegin to ach for fear that you have committed thisunpardonable fin: But I think I have lufficientlyproved to you what it is; and I tell you again, thatthere tfre but few that can commit it; nay, there aremillions that are tormented in hell, yet ne"er com-mitted this fin; nay, farther, an ignorant proteftantmay, through weaknefs, and out of a flaviih fear, turnpapift, and renounce his profeflion, and yet not com¬mit this unpardonable fin againft the Holy Ghoft:For doing it oqt of ignorance and infirmity, theremay be matter left for the Holy Ghoft to work up-on, whereby he may yet be converted and laved.Confider this alfb, il you are afraid you have com¬mitted it,and with that you had not committed it, andwould not commit it if it were to do again, thenthat is a true fign you have not committed it.Secondly, 1 muft conclude all with a word of coun-fel.I. Watch16 Of the Unpardonable Sin, &c.I. Watch very diligently againft all fin; But a-hove all. take fpecial heed of thole fins that come nearto the lin againft the Holy Qholl:; and they are thefe;hypocrify, taking only the outward profelfion of re¬ligion, and lb difiembling and mocking of God fin¬ning wilfully againft convi&ion ofconfeience, and a-giinfl great light and knowledge, finning prelump-suoufly (with an high hand): Thele fins, thoughnone of them are the direft fin againft the HolyGhoft, j'et they will come very near to it ^there¬fore take fpecial heed of them, left they, in time,fhould bring you to the committing of that unpar-cjpnable fin. And,XL Labour to be fincere in religion, and by a truefaith engraft yourfelves in Chrift ; for they that be inChrift, can never commit this unpardonable fin : Forknow this, that among all the fins committed by fal¬len mankind, there is one fin that is a fin unto death,which is the unpardonable fin againft the HolyGhoft:, which, whofbever commits, hath no for-givenefs, neither in this world, nor in the world tocome.Confider what hath been faid, and the Lord giveyou underfianding.FINIS.v