THERE N O W N E DH I S T O R YSeven Champions of Chriitendom.V I z.St. George of England,St. James of Spain,St. Andrew of Scotland,St. David of Wales,St. Dennis of France,St. Anthony of Italy,andSt. Patrick of Ireland-SHEWING,Their valiant Exploits both by Sea and Land: theircombating with Giants, Monfters, Lions and Dra¬gons: Their Tilts and Tournaments in honour oftheir Miftreffes: Their overcoming Magicians andNecromancers, and putting an end to their direful En¬chantments: Their Knight-hood, Chivalry and mag¬nificent prowefs, againft the enemies of Chrift, and inhonour of Chriftendorn, in Europe, Afis, and AfricaGLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON,M D C C X C I V.( 2 )* * *■ a fui ta * vTHERENOWNED HISTORYO F T H ESeven Champions of Chriftendom.CHAP. i.The birth of St. George; how he was ftolen awayftom his curfes, and how he <Jelivered himfelf, andthe other fix Champions, from the Cave of Kalby,the Enchantrefs.AFTER that this our ifland (firft inhabited byBrute) began to flourifii with arts and arms, inthe famous city of Coventry lived the renowned Al¬bert, Lord High Steward of England, that took towife a lady of matchlefs beauty and virtue, who, hav¬ing been long barren, at lafl conceived with child, butnightly dreams fo tormented her mind, that (he wasconceived of a Dragon which fhould caufe her death,that (he never ceafed.but cavfd her lord by art to learnwhat (houid be the meaning thereof, who, coodefcend-ing to her defires, accompanied only with one knight,repaired to Kaiby, the lady of the woods, from whomhe received this myftericus Oracle :Sir Knight return home to thy LaJy,Who hath brought forth a worthy baby,A Champion bold, of courage flout,Whofe fame {hall ring the world throughout.received this aofwer, th*y foon returned, batSEVEN CHAMPIONS, &c. 3I ere he came home, his Lady by lofiog her own life,brought anoiher life into the world, being deliveredof a fon, upon whole bread was figured a dragon, onhis right hand a blood-red crofs, and on his left leg agolden garter: his name was given him, George, andthree ourfes provided to look to him : notwithftand-i; ing which, he was ftolen away by the enchantrefsj, Kalby; which,when his father upon his return /ou-nd,s he left his habitation for very giief, and ended his lifeI in a ftrange country-la the mean time, St. George grew in ftrength andbeauty, whofe noble deportment (being now grownj to man’s eftate) fo fired the heart of the enchantrefs■ with loft, that with all the feducement imaginable (liefought to aecomplifh her defires, and to gain his af¬fections, revealed to him of what lineage he was, andalio gave him the command of her cave, by the gift of[ a filver wand, which fhe put in his hand, leading him| to a rock to behold fame trophies of her forceries, but[' fhe entering in before him, he ftruck the rock with hisI wand, which prefently clofed, and in it this tr.ifeiable| woman, where file ended her wretched life.St. George then, like a valiant knight, releafed fromthraldom fix worthy Champions, whom this enchant-refs Kalby had a long time kept pi ifeners; viz. St.Dennis of France, St. James of Spain, St. AnthonyCkf Italy, St. Andrew of Scotland, St. Patrick of fre-land, and St, David of Wales; he with them tnosu* •ing their fteeds, and girding on their (words, whicht alfo they found in the cave, departed forth to feekout adventures, travelling till they came to a fpaciousplain, in the midft whereof'fiood a brazen piiiar thathad (even feverai ways leading to it, which invitedthefe feven Champions to take each of them a diverfcpath. Where we will leave fix of them to their dif¬ferent progrefits, and relate in the firfi place the ad¬ventures of our Englifn knight, as you may read inthe chapter following.CHAP. ir.How St. Georg* killed the burning Dragon in Egypt, Iand redeemed Sabrine the King’s Daughter fromdeath. How he was betrayed by Alnaidor the blackKing of Morocco, and fent unto the Sultan of Per- |fia, where he remained fetren years in prifon.valiant St. George, having left the other fix IA Champions, as you have heard, after fome lew Pjmonths travel, arrived within the Egyptian territories,which country was at that time annoyed with a burn¬ing dragon, whofe hunger, if^it were not every day |appeafed with the body of a true virgin, he would |breathe forth fuch a flench from his noftrils, as infeft- |ed the whole country with a horrible plague, which ||for four and twenty years together continued, till therewas not one virgin left bit the King’s Daughter only,and (he icady cext day to be offered op in facrifice to |him, if the dragon ic the mean time was not deftroy- 1ed: wherefore the King, her father, proclaimed, thatwhofoever would combat with the dragon, and prefervehis daughter’s life, in renown thereof fhould have her«o wife, and the crown of Egypt after his deceafe; a!!which was made known to St. George, by a hermit ofthat country; whereupon he refolved to undertake theadventure, and lodging with the hermit that night,the next morning mounting his deed, he took his jour-oey teva valley, whither the King’s Daughter was lead- |ing by fage matrons to be made a prey to the dragon’slaws, wham our Englifh Knight accafling, returningher back to her father, promil'ed to kill that enemy ofEgypt’s health, or lofe his life in the encounter, andfa, like a bold adventurous knight, rode to the placewhere the dragon had his refidence.This horrible dragon, whofe monflrous proportionwould have frightened any body but only Sr. George,as foou as (he beheld him, wallowed from her hide-"4jis den, and gave him a fierce aflault with her wingsIIIIOF CHRISTENDOM. sand tail, who nimbly avoided her f^ry, gave her fnch athruft with his fpear. that it fijivered into five hundredpieces the dragon coming on afrefh, fmote him (ucha deadiy blow, as felled both horfe and man to theground ; when again riling and ftepping a little bacisrwards, he went under the protection of an orangenee, which was of Inch virtue, that no venomous thing ’durft approach unto it, where this valiant knight awhile relied him, and refreflied hirni'elf with thejoice of one of the oranges, he again entered combatwith the dragon, after many fierce afiaults with aneager courage clofed with her, aad t hr nil his fword u;vto the hi^t in her belly, being penetrable in no otherplace, from whence ilFtied fuch abundance of purple-gore as turned the grafs into vermilion colour, andthen redoubling his blows, gave her fuch another thruft'under the wing with bis fwerd, as pierced her heart,liver, and bone, and made her yield her life to theforce of the conquering champion, who returned thanksto heaven for his vifiory: 'Within* good fword*which was. called Afcalon, he cut ojJ the dragon'shead, and pitched it upon the truncheon of his Ipeai,rods towards the court, cxpefliog for his good Serviceto be mof; royally entertained.At that time Ahnidof, the black king of Morocco,was in eareefl Suit with king Ptolemy, for to have hisdaughter Saferine in maninge, and having notice of St.George’s victory, fearing he would become his rival,he intended to rob him of his honour, and to that pur-pofe^ hired twelve Egyptian Knights, who fet uponSt. George as hewas coming to court; but the valiantChampion fo behaved hitnlclf, that in n little fpace he'made their lives pay for their treachery ; which Almi-dor perceiving, when he could do no otherwife, ranto the court, crying, Viiforia! Vifforial The enemyof Egypt is overthrown.This being made known to K. Ptolomy, St. Georgewas moft royally received by him, but far more cour- -6 SEVEN CHAMPIONSteoufly by his beautiful daughter, Sabrine, who thenlet her afic£Iions fo deeply on him, as length of timewould not wear it out, which {he could not forbear toe:<prefs unto him, and once at fuch a time, as fhe wasoverheard by this b!ack-a moor King, whofe love fhedciided in rd’pect to the Engiilh Knight’s, profferingto forfake her parents and idol g#ds, and to travelwith him wherefoevcr Fortune would guide their ffeps;all which was by A’midcr made known to king Pto¬lemy, who thereupon confuhing together, frabied aletter to the Sultan of Perfia, in which was containedhis fentence of death, and he made’the meffenger tocarry his own condemnation, which he vety innocent¬ly undertook to do ; and coming to Perfia, near theSultan’s palace, obferving their monffrous idolatry, hecould ro lcrsger hold, but threw down their imagesof Mahomet and Apollo, and flew thofe who offeredto withftand him; iitfomuch that the rumour thereofbeing noifed at the court, great forces were feet a-gainft hire, whom he oppofed in fingle fdf, and fentmany of them to the Stygian river; but multitudes •overcoming valour, his numerous enemies fn weariedhis arm, that his never daunted courage was forced to’yield, and let his weapon fall to the ground.There was he taken and carried before the Sultikn,»o whom he delivered Ptolemy’s letter, who thereatanoch enraged, commanded St. George to be laid ina deep dungeon, vowing he fbould never return there-•at unlefs it was to execution ; where now we muffleave our Englifh Champion, to relate the deeds ofthe other fix. And firft what befel St. Dennis ofUsance.C H A P. III.^low St. Dennis was transformed into a hart by en¬chanted mulberries, and how he recovered his (hape,and put an end to the enchantment of Eglantineshe. Sing’s Daughter of Theffaly.OF CHRISTENDOM. 7SAINT Dennis the worthy champion of Fracce3after he parted from the other ftx Champions atthe brazen pillar, travelled tili he came into the d«*-| fart country of Thefla’y, inhabited only by wild beads,I where being almoR faraifhed with hunger, he chancedI to feed upon the bet lies of- a mulberry tree, which be-(ing enchanted by magic art, in an inP.ant transformedhis body into the likenefs of a hart (only his naturalreafon remained) in which condition he remained aI long time, bewailing his misfortune, till one day shad¬ing himfeif under the leaves of that lucklefs tree, h«heard a hollow voice from the trunk thereof breathe, forth thefe words, '* Worthy Champion of France,i k-now that this tree proceeds from fair Eglantine, »hsKing’s Daughter of Theflaly, who for my pride wastransformed into this mulberry-tree; feven years thcaHnuft continue in the fljape of a hart, when thou (halt1 be retlored by eating of roles, which being done, cutdown this tree, and thereby thali the enchantmcRt b«re end of which prefixed time, his fiorfe, whohad a long time left him, brought two rofes in histeeth, which St. Dennis took and ate, and immediate¬ly fell into a deep fleep, and upon his awaking, hefound hirnfelf returned again to his former fhape,for which he returned thanks to God, and ciiriouflydecked and trimmed his t.orfe for his worthy fcrvicc.Then taking his fword in hand, proceeded to fmifitthe enchantment, and with one Mow cat in funderthe tree, from which iflued a moll beautiful datnrfehof fuch an angelical foim, as fired the French Cham--pton’t heart with afFcftlion to her, and after feme par¬ley’s of love paft betwixt them, they plighted theirfaiths to each other, and then travelled together toher father's court, who received them with unfpeak-ablo *joy and comfort ; where we will leave thisChampion of Fraoce to relate what happened -to S?*James the champion of Spain*a SEVEN CHAMPIONSC H A - P. IV.How St, James the Champion of Spain, killed a wildboar in India : how, for the Chriftian religion, hewould have been fhot to death ; and how he Holeaway the King’s Daughter.THE renowned Spanilh cltampion, in his progrefsin feeking out adventures, after many worthyaft's by him atebieved, came to the magnificent city,of Jerufalem, juft at fuch a time as Nebuzarad, theKing thereof was going out on a royal hunting, hav¬ing made proclamation, 7’hat whofoever flew the fir ftwild beaft in the foreft, fiiould have In reward a cor-llet of fteel worth a thouftmd fhekels of filver.Thirft cf honour, and hope of gain, the two fpursthat prick men forward to worthy enterprizes, caufeftSt. James to join himfelf to this honourable company,yea, to outgo them in. noble relblutions; for fcouring-over the plain before the hunters, he came into a fpa*cious fortft, where his valour quickly had an objeft towork upon, being a mighty wild boar, lying before hismolly, den, of fuch a wonderful bignefs and proportion,as is aimoft incredible to declare, but the magnanimouschampion St. James, nothing daunted, couragioufiyfet upon him,dealing fuch blows with his keen falchionthat ere the reft of the company came in, he overcamethat mouftrous boar, cutting off his head, and prefent-ing it to the king of Jerufalcm, who accordingly gavehim the reward piomited : but, having intelligence im¬mediately, that he was a Spanilh Chriftian, his mindwas altered, that immediately be condemned him todie ; yet, for his good fei vice in killing the boar, gavehim leave to chufe his own death. St. James feeing itwould be no otherwife, defired to be bound to a pinetree, and, after an hour’s refpite to make his peacewith heaven, to be (hot to death by a tiue virgin.But, when the fame came to be put in execution, notesc maid could be found that would undertake it rOF CHRISTENDOM. #v/heriupon the King ccaunanded that lots Hiould becall, which fell upon his cwn daughter, the beauteousCeleltiae, whofe heart was already fired with the loveof the heroic champion.; nod, therefore, on her bareknees, earnefily begged his life of her father, whichwith much ado, he granted, but Cor ever banished himthe laud, and departing a little (pace, out of the lovehe bore to Ceieftiae, who had preferved his life, heventured again, difco'ouriag his face and hands, andremaining dumb that he might not be known, at laftgot an opportunity to difeover himfelf, and obtainingher confent to go along .with him in the dead time ofthe night, mounted her on his Reed (which hr (hoedbackward to prevent purfuitj and after many dangersnarrowly efcaped, at laft they happily arrived in SpaiacThe adventures of St. Anthony, St. Andrew, and St.Patrick,the Championsof Italy,Scotland and Ireland.HE noble Champion, St. Anthony of Italy hav¬ing (after leaving the other fix Champions tra~veiled over many hills and dales, woods and forefts,came at laft into the country of Thrace, where, uponthe top of an high mountain, flood an impregnablecaftle, wherein lived a terrible giant, named Blonde-ron, that had over the principal gate of his ciftlcthefe verfes written:What Champion to this Caftle doth repair,Here lives a Giant bold within this place,Who pris’ners keeps (even virgins chafte and fair,Daughters to the noble King of Thrace.All thefe who with this Giant fierce will fight.Shall have a Virgin’s prayers day and night.Thirft of glory and honourable renown, fo fired thebread of the noble Champion, that he thuodred at thegate with the pummel of his (word as loud as the Cy¬clops when they formed the armour of Achilles; thegiant being ronied at this terrible noife, camexasDiugCHAP. Vla SEVEN C II A M P I O N Sout of the gate with a great oak tree flourifhing ahouthii'nesd, intcadiug with one blow, to cruih in piecesthe bones of St. Anthony for difturbing him of hisrepofe, but the nimble knight fo avoided his ftrokesby {kipping ccntinua'ly out of his reach, that the Gi¬ant, in a (hart fpace grew weary with brandifhing founweildy a weapon, which when St. Anthony per¬ceived he lightly leaped to him, and with one blowbrought the Giant upon his knees, which being fe-conded with another of mighty force, bereaved the Gi¬ant of his life, fending his foul into the dark regions,there to inhabit with grim Pluto; then, thauking Godfor his viftory, he entered tie caftie, where he waskindly entertained by Rofalinda, one of the ThrachmKing’s Daughters; (he (hewed him all the rarities ofthe cable, and amongft the reft, fix (liver fwans fwim*sning on a gre.xt pond cf water, which were the otherfix daughters of the King of Thrace, whofu chaititiesthe luftful giant attempting to violate, the kinder def-tinies (in comraiferation) ti ansfornoed them into milk-white (wans, to (ignify their chaftities were withoutfpot and blemifh.After fome (kort repofe to refrelh himfelf, St. -An¬thony with Rofalinda polled to the Thracian court,where they were kindly entertained; but the King hear¬ing of his daughters’ transformation, with great griefdeparted to the cable, rciolving there to fpend his dayswith invocating his country gods, to rebore his daugh¬ters to their (hapes: whereupon St Anthony, notwilling to fpend his days in cafe and luxury, re(olvcdprivately to depart from thence, which being madeknown to Rofalinda, (he alfo fecretly departed with him.In the mean time, the famous Champion, St. Andrewof Scotland, having paftVd thro’ many dangers in a.vale of walking fpirits, came wandering alfo into thiscountry of Thrace, fortune guiding his fteps to thefame caftle wherein the Thracian King was worfnip-ptng bis iRtithcn gods, which be psiceiving, a.cdkn jw~Q F CHRISTENDOM. tx" iig th'i caufe of his great idolatry, St, Andrew, like atrue Chriftian Champion, taught him the w or (hip of■ the living God ; which, when they had rightly par-formed, on a hidden the milk white fwaas were chan¬ged into the (hape of beautiful ladies, to the great joyof all prefeat: For St. Andrew, having knowledge icI was St. Anthony that had fiain the great Hlanderon,|j and how he was departed with the lady Rofalinda, heI fecretly hole away from the Thracian King, to feefcu St. Anthony whom he greatly longed to fee, and thej King’s Daughters underhanding he wts gone, travtji-led^frer him, whofe fudden departure caufed greatj forrow throughout all Thrace.The fix ladies having travelled many a weary mile,jl in a fruitlefs fcarch after St, Andrew, cstne a: laii toan uninhabited wildernefs, face oily with beahs analfavage monftets, where they wereldrprized by thirtyf bloody fatyrs, that hauled them by the hair of thair ■| heads, regardlefs of their (bouts and loud foundingi outcries, intending to have ravifiied them of their vir-j gin honours, but heaven (that always favours the vir¬tuous) had fo ordered it, that St. Patrick, that mag¬nanimous Irifti Champion, after many heroic aftioasby him performed, was, ar. the >f;Kiie inffcaat, alfo icthe defart place, who beholding the inhumanity oftbefe favage creatures couragioufiy fet upon them andput them to flight, delivering thereby thefe moft ex-! cellent pnacefles from death, or wim they accountedworfe than death, the fpoilingof their virginities, whoafter fome paufe sf time, being a little come to them-felves, related to St. Patrick the oectfion of their jour¬ney, with aa account of the atchievements both of St.Anthony and St. Andrew, as you heard before in thebeginning of this chapter, St. Patrick comforted themthe bdl he could; like a noble knight undertook t»be their condufbr in their undertakings, having him-fidf a mind to behold thole magnanimous Knights wh*formerly had beea-his xtjpc.aamaas ic .rue cattextfrz SEVEN CHAMPIONSby, in which journeys we will for a while leave themtill we relata the aftion^ of the feventh and laft Cham¬pion, St. David of WJes.C A A P. VI.How St. David the Champion of Wales, by art of ma¬gic, fl .pt feven years in the enchan ted garden of Or-mondine the Necromancer, and how St. George e»fcaped out of prifon in Per' a nr redeemed theChampion of Wales from his enchantment.WE come next io fpeak of ths*- •a^gessizaoas He¬ro, St. David of Wales, whofe valiant exploitsand heroic performances were nothing inferior to thereft of the fix Champions, making the name of Chrif-tendom famous in thole nations that acknowledge thetrue God: efpecially his actions in the Tartarian court,are not to be palfed over io fdence, where his.prowefsgained him the honour to become the Emperor^ Cham¬pion. Bur, upon a fblemn feaft day, whereupon werekept royal tilts and tournaments ic honour of the Em¬peror’s birth, it was St. David’s unlucky fortune tokill the counf Palatine, being heir apparent to the Tar¬tarian crown, at which the Emperor was fo incenfedthat he would have flam him prefently, but that in ho¬nour he could not do it: Whereupon he bethoughthimfclf of a clear conveyance, which was to the en¬chanted garden upon the confines of that country, keptby a famous necromancer, named Ormondine, bind¬ing him by the oath of knighthood, to bring him fromthence the occromincer’s head : all which St. Davidpromifed faithfully to perform, and, with an undaunt¬ed courage, went to the place, whete at the entrancein was a rock of ftone, in which was emclofed a moltrich fword, nothing appeared outwardly but the hilt;about the pummel thereof, in letters of gold, was thusengraven :This fword cannot be pulled forth,..JSjitt.by a Knight out of the North,OF CHRISTENDOM. :St. David veriiy imagining hirrilelf to be that knighof the north, couragioudy a.Tayed to pull it forthbut no fooner was his hand on the hilt, but his fenfe!were oppreft with a ‘omniferous deep, that it was impodible for him to awake till the inchautment was finifhed, which afterwards was performed by St.Georgewhofe exploits we now come to relate.Seven times had the world's bright eye ruu his aC'coal courfc thro’ the twelve ftgus of the Zodiac, fmoSt. Georgs was confined in that nady Perdao prifonby the treachery of the king of Morocco, when b;chance Rumbling upon a bar of iron, he made fuch ufof it, that with continual labour he digged himfelf;ponage ihro* the ground; till, in the dead time' of thnight, he a-fcended juft in the middle of the Suitin’court: time and place thus favouriag his defigns, hccifed not to lend his afliftiog arms, to work out threft; for, hearing fome grooms in the Sultan’s liablepreparing their horfes to go on hunting the next dayrhe took the bar of iron and killed them all : which lx*lag done, he took the ftrongeft gelding, and richeft c/■partfoos, wherewith he bravely furnilhed himfeif, thet^with chalk upon a black tnarble pillar, he thus wrott^Sultan, farewel, for George is fled, 7Thy fteed is loft, thy grooms are dead. ,■So fetting forward towards the gate, he thus f llutes the porter, ‘ Porter, open the gates with fpeet'* for George of England is efcaped out of prifon, arT* hath murdered all the Sultan’s grooms, which h,*"‘ alarmed the whole court.’ The porter, ignoraiof what had happened, opened the gate for St. Georg1*W'ho, with a nimble pace, never refted till became witfin the confines of Greece, beyond the reach of the Pcftan hprfemen, who in vain purfued after. But no\ ,hunger again oppreffed him as (harp as imprifoamc1“did before, fo that feveral days his horfc and !fared alike, being forced to eat the graft of the fk’v*=r q- oSEVEN CHAMPIONSad to drinkrthe water of the niDBiog ftreatsvs; ate efpied a caftle not far off, whether he directed his/eary fteps, defiring of a lady who flood looking overhe wails, a meal of meat to relieve a knight almaftjoiifhed; but (he, with a curfed'frown, bid him be-one, or eife his life muft pay for his prefutnption, her)rd being a mighty giant, that, with cruflied bones,id rccompenfe the faucinefs of 1'uch intruders. Now,»th St. George, by the honour of my knighthood,ere will I obtain my dinner, or elfe become food forrows by his accurfed band. Thf lady, abafh’d at thefevords, gave information to the giant, who immediate-’ came forth, of fuch a monflrous and deformed pro-ortion, that he would have daunted a courageousnight; tho’ ftreng and luflful for an encoocter; yetleorge (tho’ much enfeebled by hunger) with a mag*animous refolution fet upon him, and notwithflaod-g the giant was armed with a mighty bar of iron,ic Chriflian Champion dealt him fuch blows, that, inac,, the giant was forced to furrender his life, and theunmand of the caftle into the hands of St. George.St. George naving now finifhed his work, went into■e caftle to receive his wages, viz. his dinner whichf had earned, but for fear the lady fhould mingle/ifoa in his food, he made her fir ft to tafte of every}fti. and, having ftaid fome time to refrefti himfelf,d his horfe, he left the caftle in keeping of the lady,went on in purfuit of his travels, palling thro’-Je reft of Greece and Phrygia, until he came into thetnfines of Tartary, to the enchanted garden of Or-jjndice, where he efpied a fword enclofed into the en-canted rock, when he-no fooner put his hand into the^It, then he drew it out with mucheale, then imme-ratcly the hea*vens were overcaft with a thick dark-gfs, and the earth (hook and rumbled tike mightyeal$ of thunder, the winds blew h impetuowfly thatong oaks were rent in pieces by tlie lame, and thene enchanted garden vaaifhed a way, and the thampionOF CHRISTENDOM. £5of Wales awaked out of his fleep, where he had hot*for feveu years. The uecroaancer after he had brieflydeclared his forepaft life to St George, gave a moftterrible groan and died ; whofe head, with the en¬chanted (word, the Englifli Champion gave to St.David, to carry to the Tartarian coot t, according toI It's promife, whilft he himfclf travelled towards Bar-| bary, where our male will now attend him.C H £ P. VII.How St. George arrived at Tripoli in Birbary, fromwhence he ftole away Sabrine the King of Egypt’sdaughter from the black-moor kl^gjand how (he v/asknown to be a pure virgin by the means of two lions,i ^TT'HE noble St. George having, after many wearyJL fleps got to the kingdom of Barbary, he thoughtit vain to attempt upon Almidor by force of arms, fee¬ing he was attended by fo many worthy knights andyet defiling above all things, to have a fight of his be¬loved Sabrine, for whofe fake he had endured fo longimprifonment; therefore he refolved to patch out thelion’s ikin with th« fox’s tail, and gain by policy whathe could not gain by force; to this end he exchangedhis horle, armour and furniture with a palmer for hisgowp, flaff and ferip, and fo accoutred went dire&iyto the court, where he beheld a number of palmers,waiting in the gate for aims, which the queen herfelfin perloti daily beftowed, in remembrance of the Epg-I iifti champion; in diflributing of which, when (he el-pied this ftrange palmer, remembering how he refem-bled the princely countenance of St. George, (betookhim by the hand and led him afide from all the com¬pany, where he fooa made himfeif known to her, whowept^for joy of finding him whom (lie never expeTcdto fee again; and after fame Ihort difeourfe of her healthand welfare, (he related to him how her father hadforced her to marry Almidor agaiafl her will, bar tho*outwardly (lie was linked to him, yet oane bat St.16 SEVEN CHAMPIONSGeorge enjoyed her heart, for vvhofe love Hie had hi¬therto continued a pure virgin, by virtue of a goldenchain fteeped inly get’s blood, which (he wore (ewntimes doubled about her n ck. Then delivered the tohim, his horfe and iword with which he had formerlyencountered the burning dragon. And now, my George,quoth (he, nothing remains but to free me from thepower of my forced hufband, which opportunity in¬vites u unto; he having with the whole court rodeout a hunting. St George willingly condefcended toher motion, fealing the fame with as fvveet a kifsas e-ver Leander bellowed on Hero; and having gotten thegood will of an eunuch to go along with them, Hor-ing themfelves with provifions, being gallantly mou:-it-ed. they polled away with all the fpeed they couldmake, palfing through divers woods, defarts and un¬known places, to efcape the purfiiit of thofe whom theblack-moor king would fend after them.Having travelled thus for fome few days together, atlafl the beautiful Sabrine began to faint with hunger,which made St. George to leave her under the (hadeof a broad fpreading oak, accompanied with theeunuch, while he went out iu purfuit of fome prey, tofatisfy their craving appetite; fo it was his fortune tokill a deer, which, having cut out with his keen edgedfword, he brought a haunch thereof aiong with him,to prefent to his beloved lady; but, a fad accidenthappened in his abfeuce, for two hungry Hons ragingabout for prey, came direftly to the oaken tree, wherethefe two weary travellers were repoficg themfelves,who with angry mood, feized upon the eunuch, andfoon buried him in their hungry entrails, then theytore his fleed in pieces. Sabrine ail the while behold¬ing it, expected herfelf to be the next tnorfel t*> allaytheir hunger ; but, quite foreign to her expectation,with fawning geftures they came unco her, and laidtheir heads in her tender lap, and there quietly fellfall afieep, at which time St. George returned, who,  1111OF CHRISTENDO M. 17ftanding a whih io amaze what to do, ar la ft he threwdown his venifon, and with his truify Iword Afcaion,fcon difpatched both the liens. Mow Sabrice, faith he^I have fijflicient proof of thy true virginity, the natureof thefe beafls being fuoh, that they will bow their 'heads to none but fuch as have kept their chaltiiitsinviolable. Therefore, divine Paragon, nature’s won¬der and love’s abllradf, doubt not but thy fame fhallrelbiiiid for love and chaftity, fo far as Phoebus dartshis golden rays.Then dreflTed ne the venifon for her wrhich he hadbrought,-and having refrelhed themfelves, they fet for¬ward on their wonted travels, till they came into the:country of Greece, where they foon had news of greattilts’and tournaments faddenly to be held at the Em¬peror’s court, in honour of his royal nuptials with theEmperor of China’s daughter; the fame whereof hadfumrooned hither all the moft approved and magna¬nimous heroes, both in Europe, Alia, and Aftica, totry their man-hood, and, by noble exerciles of arras, tomount up into honour’s throne, among the reft thefeven Champions of Chrilkndom arrived there un*known to each other, of whole valiant a£ls, to theircountry’s honour, we come now to declare.CHAP. VIII.How the feven Cuampions performed valiant exploitsin the Grecian court; where, having intelligence ofthe great preparations that were in de by the Pa¬gans, every Champion returned into his own coun¬try, for forces to withftaud them.| Nfioite was the number of the knights afTembled ia,x the Grecian court, to adventure their chance infortune's lottery for the purchafmg of renown, butthe fi ven champions attained to fuch favour with thiGrecian Emperor, that he appointed them to be hhown peculiar champions againft all comers, each hi:jfeveral day, feven days together, the appointed time fo18 SEVEN CHAMPIONSholding the juMs, To relate ail their feveral adven¬tures, how they foiled each oue that came againft them,would take too much time for our intended brevity;let it suffice tc know, that their prowefs was fo highlyadmired by the Emperor, as ;in reward of their valour)be beftowed upon them a golden tree with feven branch¬es, in the uivioiRg whereof they came to be known un¬to each other, which fo rtjoiced their hearts, that theyaccounted (hatday as fortunate unto thtmas whenfhltthey were delivered from the thraldom of the e-nchant-refs Kaiby. But they had not long enjoyed the fruitionof each other's company, when there arrived at the Em¬peror’s court, a hundred heralds, from a hundred feve¬ral countries, which by the command of their princes,proclaimed war againtl all Chriftendom, an thefe words:“ We the moft puiflam Monarchs of Afia, and Afri¬ca, by a general confect of us all, proclaim open war>fire and fwdrd, with utter dcllrucTion to all the coun¬tries and kingdoms of ChrUlcisdom, ip a juft revengeagainft them for the injuries fuftained by their feveaChampions, defiring all the followers of Mahomet,Termagant and Apollo, in this our determinatioo,to join with us and take our parts.”The Grecian Emperor being alfo a Pagan aflbeiatedwith them, giving commandment to mufter up thegreateft foiccs his land could afford. All which, whenthe feven champions undeiftood, to pievent theirbloodyjpui poles, after due conltderation had atnongft therc-ifeivcs, each one with his betrothed lady departed home^ 10 his own country, there to taile forces to whhftandf «he common enemy: St.George into England, St. Den¬tins into France, St. James into Spain, St. Anthony i»-iito Italy, Sr. Andrew into Scotland, St. Patrick intotllrciand, and St. David into Walts: the profpetf ofwwhofe delightful habitations they had not bebi’ld intfeuny yeais before; where they were moft royally en-fbterty'ned according unto their own heart’s defire, eachfevesa! Prince in his common caufe, conttibming then mOF CHRISTENDOM. 19. mmoft afliftance he could make, appointing the bay ofPortugal for their great rendezvous V^cd all with ong;-ncral confe&t, nominating St. Gcrrge *0 be their genetal, whofe valiant exploits and honour tble perform^ances, fnall be di.'coui fed of ia the following chapter-.How theferen Championscf ChriHendoiaarrived, withall their troops, in the bay of where SrGeorge made an oration to his foldieis. ThedifTentioqin the Pagan army; with other tilings that happened,A T the appointed time, the Chriftian CharnpionsL\ with each one a well approved army, met in thu' bay of Portugal, the number of which joined togetherwas about five hundred tboufand ; unto whom SiGeorge, their appointed genera’, made this following oration :“ Fellow foldiers and kind country-meo, whofe vslour the world admires and dreads, we arc now gotointo the field of honour, and to the work of manhoodthe time is now st hand we have long looked atprayed for, and your work the noblefl in the wor]<ipour forth, therefore, your utmoft forces, that ag,to come may know what the lance, the ax, the fwojand the bow, can do in the baud of the valiant: fe>cot the numerous force of our enemies, whofe nurjfcer is rather a burthen than an advantage unto thei-jbut know, your caufe is the beft, the defence of teChriftian religion, and yom native countries, whjewill oppofe all their vaft numbers. Whofoever the^fore defires riches, honours and rewards, know t|j.they are all to be gotten by the overthrew of thi_naifcreanls, who will fly before your valour, as flojrof fheep before the greedy wolf.” 4This foldier-iike oration put inch courage ictotobreads of the foldiers, that, with a gencrat voice, t^?tried our, ‘ To arms, to arms, with thetsagnanimChampion St. George cl England,’ in which ,gaCHAP. IX.; 2C S E*V E N CHAMPIONS‘refolution we will leave them for a while, to relate•what happened in rhe at my of the Pagan*, who, like^'gralhoppers overfpreading a country, met ia the lat-.djJaf Htingary^c fuch naultitudes,that had not God frftl-j'trated their intentions, the Chriilian army had been butlz morfel, Icarce fufficient for them for-one meal; bythis invincible powxr, he confounded them in their owntpra6fices; for being about to eledf a general, each na¬tion was obfiinSTrto have their king the perfon, that'thculd command in chief; and fo eager were they inr^hefe refolulions, that from words they fell to blows,0whicii ended at laft in a moft dfeadful f.ght sgaioftPk.ach other, till the ground was changed from a ver-r;1ant green to a purple hue, and each place ffrewedPVith the carcsfes of dead bodies. Here you might feehead new lept off from the (boulders, with a gafpingc3outh, complaining as it were for his reparation fromrefl of its body: there lay an arm with a hand,rrafping a fword, as if it would bght yet in its body’sa&feoce. In anothet* plate you might behold one who^•ould run av/ay from danger, but that his legs are foT'tangled in his fellows guts be could not llir; here laye brains of one, there another with his mouth andws cut away, (o that he could not complain of hisw'/n misfortunes. In fine, fuch horror and defirufVtcn8r£ts ansongft them, as would make the heart of an e-{^ctny to relent. Thofe that remained, after this bloodyiPncouDtcr, withdrew themfelves into their own coun-curfing the time that ever they undertook fo un-t,G ‘ky au enterprize, and confeiliug it was vain (or themIth Attempt any thing againft the Chiiftiau’s God.tuis!t ^5 n0{ long ere the news ot this bloody co-id0 tnrer came to the ears of St. Geotge, and the refttd'ci.he Chriitian Champions; who having received (heyV.'hjji;.gcncC( foon isifcd their armies and marched di-tlcuijy to Barbary, again ft the bloody king of Morocco,fdcrt:hafti(e his treachery committed agaiuft the moftfcvfrj WDC(J Englifli Champion.CHAP. IV.Theterriblebattle between the Chrirtiansand Moors inBarbary, the great overthrow of the Pagans, and howAimidor the black king of Morocco, was boiled todeath in a brazen caldron of lead and brimftone.THE Chriftian army under the conduft of the mag¬nanimous EnglHh champion, St. George, beingarrived in Barbary, and, with their victorious areas,turning all into ruin wherefoever they came, the noifethereof made Ahnidor’s guilty confcience to quake, andthereupon he railed a mighty hoft to withftand them,who with great courage fell upon the Chriltians, fo•that between them enfued a moil terrible battle, each■fide driving to outdo the other in victorious exploits;to purchafe renown; the Moors in defence of theircountry, their wives and children. Three days togetherdid this bloody conflict hold, the night fcarce givingthem time to breath in, but before the fun began hisP’arnal race, they returned thsir llrength to a moreeager encounter; horror, bloodlhed and amazementwas on their fide, and death rode triumphant thro’ thewhole hoft; but the valiant St. George (whole couragewas never wanting at all dlays) being minded to putan end to the light, Angled out the Moroccoking, be-twb:t whom and the Englilb champion was a long,anddangerous encounter; but Aimidor, not able to with-ftand the mighty puilTance of St. George, "was forcedto yield himfdf to his mercy, and became his prifoner,which the Moors feeing, prefently would have fled to thechief city, but the Chriilians intercepting them, made-amongft them fuch a flaughter, that not one of a hum*dred efcaped to tell the fad difafter of their misfortunes.The Chriflian army then marched direftly to Tri¬poly, carrying along with them the wicked Aimidorto wheta (notwithilanding his evil defens) upon a.promife of forfaking his heathen gods, and to turn toi)c a Chriiliau, mercy was proffered, which refufing,oJli3iitItiiyU<«tn'tlvvt[EBras SEVEN CHAMPIONSwith direful execra ioHs againft the Chriftiati religion.,he was boiled to death ia a brazen caldron filled withlead and briroftone; at the fight uf whpfe death, aswell Pagans as Christians, with a load voice cried out,“ Long live St. George, the vi&on-ous Champion ofEngland, who, bv his valiant prowefs, hath freedBatbary from fheir mil’erable thraldom.”Hereupon the Morocco peers, with bended knees,came to St. George; proffering unto him the imperialcrown of Barbary, and promifiog to be chriftened inthe Chrifiian faith; all which was prefeotly perform¬ed, by placing the crown upon his head, and abotffU-iog Mahometanifm with all the fuperfiitious rites ofthat falfc prophet; whereupon a great alteration fnd-dcnly eofued, Pagan temples were pulled down, and aChriftbn church eretted: inftead of a tyrannical go¬vernment, good and wholefome laws were ordained :peace and plenty flourifhed every where, and a gene¬ral rejoicing was throughout the whole kingdom.But theheroicChainpions.nottmndingtofpcDd rherrtime in the idle bower of peace, and to let their armourhang railing on the wall, when fo much action wjs tobe done in the world; they therefore fumraoned theirfoldiers to re-afiumc their courage, and to put them-jfelves iiHm equipage for war. St George leaving thegovernment of the land, in his abfence, to four of theprincipal peers of Morocco; the wholearmy marched di«reflly to Egypt againft K. Ptolemy, whohad confederat¬ed with Almidor for fending St. George into Perfu.CHAP.IX.How the Chriftians arrived in Egypt, and what hap¬pened to them there. The tragedy of the Earl ofCoventry. How the Egyptian king broke his Desk,and how St. George redeemed his Lady from beingburnt to death at a ftake.THE feven Champion^ of Chriftendom, with theirvictorious army, being arrived iu Egypt, theyOF CHRISTENDOM. 23fuppofed prcfently to have met armed troops to qdth-ftand them; but, contrary to their expefhtioa, theyliod both cities, towns and villagec uninhabited: theterror of their coming ftriking fuch an amazement tothe inhabitants, that they hid themfelves io the moltobfcurc places they could find : wherefore they march¬ed to king Ptolemy’s court, intending firft to burnthat, and then afterwards the reft of the city into cin¬ders. But whilft they were in thefe thoughts, and be¬ing come near thereto, they were met by Ptolemy andhis chiefeft Peers, all in mourning, bearing brokenweapons, (htvcred lances, and torn ancients, with ma¬ny thoufands of women and children wearing cyprefsleases about their heads, all wi-.h one voice crying farmercy, and to fpare their country from utter ruin,king Ptolemy the foremoft of them all, addreffing him-lelf to the Cbrtftian Champions, in thJfc words:“ Meft noble Knights and renowned Champions,v/hofe names are enrolled in the book of fame, let mygrey hairs more you to pity, and my bended knees thatnever bowed to any till now, caufe companion in you :but if no mercy be referved for me, let me plead forpity for my poor commons, who are altogether igno¬rant of the injuries offered to the Engiilh champion,occafioned by the treachery of that wicked Almidorworking upon nay eafy nature: O let me fall a facrificefor their fafety, and itain not your hands iu their guiit-lefs blood, but fpare them and us, and we (hall not oulybecome your fervants, but forfakc the belief of our faifeprophets, and henceforth beiieveiu the Chriftians’God.”This forrowful lamentation and reqneft of king Pto¬lemy, made the heart of the Englifh Champion to re¬lent, fo that he not only granted mercy to the wholeland, but alfo life to king Ptolemy upon the conditionsbefore promifed; which gracious grant was fo welcomeboth to king and commons, that all on-a fuddeh thepeople returned from their lurking places to their for¬mer habitations. Bone-fires were made in every place.24 s E V E N C H A M P I O N S, &cthe bells rang day and night, and fo much banquet- |ing, dancing and tnafquiug was u(ed, as exceeded that !which the Trojans made, when Paris returned fromGreece, with the conqueft of the Spartan Qneen.But this fun-shine weather was foon ovcrfludowedwith a cloud of forrowj for, in the ioterim of all their (jjoy,-there arrived at the court an English knight, whothus delivered himfelf to St George.“ Renowmed Champion of England, if ever you ex- fpeft to fee your beloved lady again, make all the hadeyou can unto her, who adjudged to be burned todeath at a ftake, for murdering the Earl r>f Coveptry; >who, by gifts, entreaties, and allurements, fought to jbetray her of her honour, and by luflful a£b to ftaiaher name with infamy, which your virtuous lady al¬ways withftood: but at laft, he finding her alone, andrenewing his fait, with threatning of force upera herdenial; (he, with kind words, lulled him afleep, andthen iheathed his own poinard in his breaft, which ona fudden bereaved him of life; for which faCf (he iscondemned to die the death aforefaid: yet this favouris granted her, that if in two years (pace, a championbe found, that for her fake will'veoture his life; ifhe overcome the challenger, her life fhali be faved, butif not, then (he mu ft die.”Tbcfe words ftruck a wonderful aftonifhmcnt andferrow to all that heard them, efpecially to king Pro-Jemy, who, in a defperate mood, caft himfelf from thetup of a high pinnacle, and broke his neck. Where- iupon St. George was immediately proclaimed, and foon 'after crowned king of Egvpt; and then, leaving theChriftian Champions, he went into England, where hecombated with the Baron of Chefter, who was cham¬pion againft the Lady Sabrine, whom he overcame inbattle, to the great joy of the Eng'ifh knight and hisbeloved Sabrine, with whom he afterwards fpent hislife in much joy and felicity.FINIS.