THEHISTORYIN FIFESHIRE.Containing the Entertaining Exploits ofWISE WILLIEANDWIT-TY EPPIE;With a Description of their College, Coat of Arms, &c.EDINBURGH:Printed far the Booksellers in Town and Country.THEHISTORYOFBUCKHAVEN.Iv the county of Fife, on the sea-roast,there stands a little town, inhabited byfew but fishes called Bucky-harbour,because sea buckies and shells are foundin o-reat plenty on the rocks about thatplace. There is little mention madeof this town by historians, so as to knowits original antiquity. rJ heir ownBurgess-ticket, which was partly truth,but more of it by way of lampoon, wasdated, two and thirtieth day of themonth of Julius Caesar. their Coatof Arms was, two hands gripping eachother over a Scate’s rumple. Theoath was, “ I wish that de de il maytak me an I hinna an honest man toyou, an ye binna de like to me. Anarticle of good neighbourhood they had,whoever was first up in a good morning,|sed to raise all the rest to go to sea;jut if a very bad morning, piss and. go) again till break of day ; then raisey’ise Willy, who could judge of theleather by the blawing of the wind ’heir freedoms were, to take all sortsr fish contained in their tickets, viz.•bsters, par tens, podlies, spout-fish,^a-cats, sea-dogs, fleuks, pikes, dick-uddocks, and p—fish.Again, these people are said to ha veescended from one Tom and his two!)ns, that were fishers on the coast offor way ; who, in a violent storm, were(own over, and got ashore at Bucky-firbour, where they settled'; and thehole of his children were calledhom-sons, and soon became a little•wn by themselves, as few of any othernme dwelt among them. This is aaditional story, handed down fromle generation to another. Theyjpt but little communication with thewintry people about them ; for a far-er, in those days, thought Ins daugh-r cast away if she married one of the4fishers in Bucky-harbour; and, on tiother hand, Witty Eppie, the ale-wibwad a sworn, Bego laddie, I wad rathsee my boat an’ a’ my three sons dadagainst the Bass, or I saw ony anethem maried to a muck-a byre's dauglter; awheen useless tappies, that can inaething but rive at a tow rock, acut corn ; they can neither bait a boo’nor redd a line, houk sand-eels, nor g;ther pirewinkles.Now Wise Willie, and Wittie Eppithe ale-wife, lived there about a hudred years ago. Eppie’s chamber wtheir College and Court-house, whelthey decided controversies and explai|jed their wonders; for the house was lia little kirk, with four windows and.gavel door. The wives got leave to flyltheir fill, hut fighting was prohibitelas Eppie said, up-hands was fair piTheir fine w7as a pint o’ ale, and EpjJsaid it at a plack the pint. They h|neither minister nor magistrate,yet a hurley-bailie, to brag themhis tolbooth. The Lord o’ the manout!ided all disputable points, and WiseJ llie and Witty Eppie were the m-i of the town.Jow Eppie had a daughter, she ca’dgly-taii’d Nancy, because of herless growth ; her wffet was like aStter, wi’nae curpenfor a creel; beinginburgh bred, and brought up wi’.r Loudin aunty, she had learned to!d and sew, make coarse claiths, andiicomancoes; there was nae scholar infe town but hersel; she read the bible,d the book of kirk-sangs that was new¬-come in fashion. Willie and Eppie'I’d them ay what it meant, and said: the letters in it was litted by my*)rd, for they saw him hae a feather|at he dipped in black water, andIide crooked scores, just like them ;d then he spoke them o’er again, andtell’d him what to say.It happened on a day, that twro ofeir wives, near the town, found asrse-sboe, and brought it home, andeh sent for Willie to see wrhat it was.6to VWillie comes and looks at'it. Indequo’ Willie, it’s a thing and holes itI kent, quo’ they, he' wad get a naitill’t. A’ho! quo’ Willie, wliar didfind it ? Aneath my Lord's ain LorWillie. Adeed, said Willie, it’s tauld n;oon, 1 ken by the holes in’tnailing it to the lift ; but I winderslie fed in l ife, for the last time isaw her she was hinging on her haahooii Edinburgh. A-hech, quo’ V\ illiwe II set her upon the highest housethe town, and we’ll Lae moonlightour ain a’ the days o' the year. 11whole town ran to see the moon ! Hoitout, said Witty Eppie, ye’re a’ fool|thegither ; it’s but ane o' thae thingsmy Lord’s mare, wears upon her lute.At another time, one of the wive!found a hare, with its legs broken, lyjing among her kail in the yard. Shnot knowing what it was, called her neighLours to come and see it: some said iwas a gentleman's cat, or my lady’:lap-dog, ora sheep’s.young kittlen^ be¬cause it had saft horns : Na, na, cgiefl7Vise Willie, its ane o’ the man kinshat gentlemen’s dogs worry. Whati/ill we do wi’t ? Faith, quo’ the wife,lire’ll sing the woo aiF, and make fishnd sauce o't to my Tammy’s^ parrich.'fa, na. said Wittie Eppie, better gie’t0 my Lord, and he'll stap an iron stickthrough the guts o’t, and gart rin roundi.fore'the fire till it be roasted., It happened on a dark winter morn¬ing, that two of the wives Were going1 o Dysart to sell their fish; and onthe road-side there happened to be,iome tinker's ass tethered. The poor|ss, seeing the two wives coming withIheir creels, thought it was the tinkerspoming toilit or relieve him, fell a-bray-jing : The two wives threw their fish a-[jvay, and ran home like mad persons,|?rying they had seen the deil, ay therery horned deil, and that he spoke toIhem, but they didna ken what he said,lor it spoke waur than a highlandman.[The whole town was in an uproar; somevould go with picks and spades, andlagghim to pieces ; others wad go andlatch him in a strong net, and then8they could either hang or drown him.Na, na, quo’ Wise Willie, wemauna castout wi’ him at the first, as he’s gottenthe twa burdens o’ fish, he’ll e’en ganghis wa, and fash us nae mair ; he iso’er souple to be catch’d in a net; a’your pith will neither hang him nordrown him, and the kintry he comesfrae is a’ het coals, sae he’d never burn ;we’ll gae to him in a civil manner, andsee what he wants. Get out WittyEppie and Lingie-tail’d Nancy, wi’ theBible and Psalm-book; so aff they camein a crowd, either to kill the deil orcatch him alive ; but, as they camenear the place, the ass fell a-braying,which caused many of them to faintandruiiback, Na, na, quo’ Willie, that’sno the deil’s words at a’, it’s my Lord’strumpeter routing on bis brass whistle.Willie ventured on till he saw the ass’stwa lugs. Now, said Willie, come for¬ward an’ hand him fast, I see his twahorns ; hech, sirs ! he has a white beardlike an auld man. So they inclosedthe poor ass on all sides, thinking itwas the deil: but when Wise Willie9 ^ikaw lis hadnae cloven feet, he criedout, Scania, lads, this is no the deil,it’s some living beastit’s neither cownor horse. An’ what is’t then, Willie ?Indeed, quo’ Willie, it’s the father o’themaukins, I ken by his lang lugs.Now, some say this history is toosatirical; but it is according to theknowledge of those times, not to sayone place by another. The old wives. will tell you yet, of many such storiesof the devil appearing to their grand¬fathers5'and grandmothers, and deadi wives coming back again'to visit theiri! families long after being dead. So thisBuckhaven was once noted for drollexploits; but it '■ts now become more|| known, and is a place that produces the[hardiest sailors of any town on the Scotscoast. Yet many of the old people init still retain the old tincture of theirancient and uncultivated speech, suchi as Be-go laddie ; they are also of afiery nature, for if you ask any of thewives where their College stands, they’llI tell you, if your nose was in their a—e,your mouth would be at the door of it.JONow, it happened when Wise Willifturned old, that he took a great swelling in his wame, spueing up his kail, colstay on his stomach ; and a stout!stomach he had, for crabs’ heads andlscate broo, or broseon abridal morning ;|yet it fail’d iiim, and befell sick. Nanefcould cure him, nor tell what ail’d him,Itill a mountebank stage-doctor came|to Kirkcaldy, who judged by people’s!piss the trouble of their person. WiselWillie hearing of his fame, pissed intolthe bottle, and sent it to him with liisl'daughter. The bottle being uncorked, Ihis daughter spilt it by the way, and,|to concea^'er sloth in so doing, pissed!in it herseii. Then on she goes, till shelcame to the stage-doctor, where slieficried out aloud, Sir Doctor, Sir Doctor, I-here is a bottle of my father’s wash, helhas a sair guts, and canna drite ony, Ibut spues a’ he eats. It’s true I tell!you, my dow. The doctor looks at it, Iand says, it’s not your father’s surely, Qit’s your mither’s. The deil’s in the|lops, and cauld fish, and naething waiman, said she, divna I ken my fatherX.11frae my mither. Then, said lie, he iswith child. The deil's in the man, quo’1 she, for my mither bare a’ de bairns' before ; dafs no true, sir ; fegs, ye’re agreat liar. Hame she comes, and tel I’dWillie, her father, that the doctor saidI he was wi’bairn. Owaesme, quo’ Willie,for I hae a muckle wame, an’ I fear itsowre true. O plague on you, Janet, forye’re the father o’t, an’ I am sine todie in the bearing o’t. Witty EppieI was sent for, as she was a houdie, an’I she fand a’ Willie’s wame, to be sureI about it. Indeed, quo’ Eppie, ye’retheill first man ere I saw wi’ bairn before; an’I how ye’ll bear it, troth I dinna ken ;I but 1 wad drink salt sea water, anddrown it in my guts—for if men getance the gate o’ bearing weans them¬selves, they’ll seek nae mair wives.VSo Willie dranksea watertill his gutswas like to rive, and out he goes to easehimself among the kail. With theterrible noise of his farting, up startsia maukin behind him, who thought it|was shot. Willie seeing her jump o’er,(the dike, thought it was a child brought'12forth, cries out, Come back, my dearbairn, and be christened, and dinna rinto the hills.to be a Pagan. So Williegrew better and better every day af¬ter his being brought to bed in the kailyard ; but his daughter was brought tobed some months after, which was thecause of the doctor’s mistake.Now Wise Willie had a daughtercalled Rolling-coughing Jenny, becauseshe spoke thick, six words at three times,half sense and half nonsense, as theirown records bear witness. She, beingwith child,, was delivered of a bonnylassie.; and all the wives in the towncried out, Be-go laddie, it’s just likeits ain father, lang Sandy Tamson (orThomson,) we ken by its lang nosefor Sandy had a great muckle red nose,like a labster’s tae, bowed at the poinlike a hawk’s neb ; and Sandy himselsa-id, that it was surely his, or some|ither body’s ; but he had used a’ hibirr at the getting o’t, to try bis abilities, being the first time e’er he was asic a business before ; and when he haej13tlone a’ that man could do at it, heIsaid it was a* nonsense ; and shame fa’him but -he would rather row his boatround the Bass an’ back again, or he’ddo the like again. For Wise Williejgade wude at the bairn, and said it had[mair ill-nature than the auldest wife(about the town ; for it pissed the bed,ishit the bed, and skirl’d like a wild cat,and kept him^frae his night’s rest. A’■the auld hags about the town ca'd him; Sandy the bairn’s daddy ; arn-l a’ fiie|young gillie-gaukies o’ lassies held outtheir fingers, and cried Ti hi hi Sandy,;the Kirk will kittle your hips,for that.hAn’ after a, the blear-eyed bell-man.ji came bladderingabout the buttock meal,-I summoned him and her before the haly-band, a court that was held in the kirkIon Saturday morning. All the herdladdies round about cried, Ay, ay, San--j dy, pay the bull-siller, or we’ll cut the| cowr’s tail awa. So poor Sandy suffer¬ed sadly in the flesh, beside-the pen¬alty and kirk penance.But Wise Willie had pity on them,14and g'ade wi’ them to the Kirk-court,what learned fouk ca'l the Session.f 'Jenny was first called upon, and in shegoes where a’ the haly band was con¬vened, elders and younger deacons,and dog payers keeping the door,the cankerdest carles that could begotten between Dysart and Dubyside '—white heads and bald heads sittingwantin bonnets, wi’ their white-headerstaves, and hodden-grey jockey coatsabout them.Mess John said, Come away, Janet,we’re waiting on you here.Min—Now, Janet, where was thischild gotten ? you must tell us plainly.Jan—Adeed, sir, it was gotten at theblack stanes, at the cheek of the crab-holes. jMess John stares at her, not know¬ing the place ; but some of the elders;did. Then, said lie, O Janet,- but thedevil was busy with you at that time.Jan—A, bymyfegs, sir, that’s a greatlie ye’re telling now, for the deil wasnae there that I saw, nor ony body else,to bid us do ae thing or anither ; welo’ed ither unco weel tor a lang timebefore that, an’ sVne we teil’d ither, an’agreed to marry ither, like honest folk ;I then, might na we learn to do t' e thing[ married fouk do without the deii help-ling us tI i ' ' ’ - * ’Wh isht, whisht, said t’;ey, ye should:be scourged, fause h o i quean, it thoiiits, ye’re speaking nonsense.Jan—De deil’s i’ the carles, for youand your minister are liars, when yepay it is de deil was helping Sandy|ind me to get de bairn. 4Come, come, said they, pay down:he Kirk-dues, and come back to thetool the morn ; the price is four pund,md a groat to the bell man.| Jan—The auld thief speed the darthfft, sir, far less might sair vou and16your bell-man baith. O but this be-anill twarld indeed, when poor honest foukmaun pay for making use o’ their aina—: Ye misca the poor deil a-binthis back, an’ gies him de wyte of a deill in de kintry, bastard bairns andevery thing ; an’ if k be sae as ye say,ye may thank de deil for that four Ippund an’ a groat I hae gien ye; that!gars your pot play brown, an’ gets youljjockey-coats, an’ purl-handed sarks, Ian’ white headed-staves, when my fa-1ther’s pat wallops up nought but bearf-an’ blue water.The woman is mad, said they, forthis money is all given to the poor offthe parish !!Jan.—The poor of the parish ! finta haet ye gie to them but wee pickiesto’ pease meal, didna I see their pocks ;an’ the minister’s wife gies naethingava to un^ca beggars, but bids them-gae to their ain parishes ; an’ yet ye’ll'tak the purse frae us, for naething but!playing the loon a wee or we be mar-17ried, an’ syne ye cock them up to belooked on an’ laugh’d at by everybody: a deil speed you an’ your jus¬tice, sir. Hout, tout, ye’re a’ comingon me like a wheen colly dogs hunt¬ing awa a poor ragget chapman frae thedoor. So out she goes cursing andgreeting. Sandy is next called upon,'and in he goes.Min.—Now, Saunders, you must tell•as how this child was gotten ?San.—A now, Mess John, sir, ye haelibairns o’ your ain, how did you getthem ? but yours are a’ laddies, andmine is but a lassie ; sae if you tell mebow you got your laddies, I’ll tell youlow I got my lassie, and then we’ll bebaith alike good o’ the business.The minister looked at him and said,:Iout, tout, Saunders, lay down four})und and a groat, arid come back the10m to the stool, and give satisfac-i.ion to the congregation; you hadmore need to be seeking repentance.for that abominable sin of uncleannessthan speaking so to me.San.—Well, here’s your siller, sir ; Ihae gotten but poor a penny-worth for't,an’ yet ye tell me to repent fort: whatthe auld thief needs I repent, whenI’m gaiin to marry the woman, an’then I’ll hae to do’ed o’er again everyday, or there'll be nae peace in thehouse. Figs, itsnonsence to pay siller,repent, and do’ed again too ; fine adviceindeed, Master Minister ! and that’sthe way the like o’ you live.Now, sir, says Wise Willie, ye man¬na put them on the black creepy till jthey’re married, they’vesufieredeneugh tat ae time.A-weel a-weel, said he, but they j 11must marry very soon.,I true, says Sapdy, ye’ll lie wantingmair clink; foul haet ye do for nae-thing here.29The next exploit was, an action atlaw against the gocdman of Muiredge,a farmer who lived near by, that keptsheep and swine. His sheep camedown and broke their yards, and ateup them kail; and the wrild haresthey thought belonged to the sameman,- as they ran to his house whenthey were hunted. The swine camevery often in about their houses, seek¬ing fish-guts and ony thing they couldget. So it happened,,when one of thechildren was sitting easing itself, thatone of the swine tumbled it over, andbit a piece out of its backside ! Thewhole town rose in an uproar againstpoor grumphie, as they called her, andtakes her before Wise Willie. Willietook an axe and cut two or three in¬ches off her long nose. Now, saysWillie, 1 trow I hae made thee some¬thing like another beast; thou had sica lang mouth before, it 'wada frighteda very deil to look at ye; but now ye’refac’d like a little horse or cow. Thepoor sow ran home roaring, all blood,and wanting the nose; which caused20Muiredge' to warn them in before myLord. So the wives that had theirkail eaten appeared first in the Court,complaining against Muiredge. In¬deed, my Lord, said they, Muiredge isno a guid man, when he is sic an illneighbour ; he keeps black hares an’white hares, little wee brown-backedhares, wi’ white arses an’ loose wag¬ging horns ; they creep in at our gushholes an’ does what they like ; when wecry, pussie, pussie, they rin hame toMuiredge : but I’ll gar my colly baudthem by the fit, an’ I’ll baud them bythe horn an’ pou the hair afF them, an’send ’em hame wanting the skin, as hedid Sowen Tammie’s wee Sandy forcodin o’ his pease; he took afF the poorladdie’s coat, an’ sae did he e’en. AndWillie said, if ye were a sow, my Lord,an’ me sitting driting, and you to bitemy arse, sudna I hae amends o’ youfor that ? Od, my Lord, ye wadna hae abit out o’ your arse for twenty marks :Ye maun e’en gar Muiredge gie tenmarks to buy a plaister to heal thepoor bit wean’s arse again.91AWell said, Willie, says my Lord ;but who puts on the sow’s nose again ?A fegs, my Lord, said Willie, she’s! honester like wantin’t, an’ she’ll bitenae mair arses wi’t. An ye had hanea nose, my .Lord, as lang as the sow,ye’d been obliged to ony body it wadcut a piece aft..A gentleman coming past near their| town, asked one of their wives wheretheir College stood ? Said she, gie me ashilling an’ I’ll let you see baith sideso’t. He gives her the shilling, think¬ing to see something curious. Now,says she, there’s ae side of yourshilling, and there’s the ither ; so it ismine now.There was a custom in Bucky-har-bour, when they got a hearty drink,that they went down to dance amongIthe boats, and two or three of the oldestwent into a boat to see the rest dance ;and when they admitted a burgherthere was always a dance. One day22they admitted gly’d Rob, v/bo was awarlock, and made them all stop theirdancing; for which he was carried be¬fore Wise Wilke to answer for thatcrime, and he was banished to the Isleof May, to carry coals to the Light¬house.A POPULAR SONG.TC A WIFE AS WILLIE HAD.ir.i.iE Wastle dwalt on Tweed,e>spot they ca'd it Linkunidoddie,illie was a wabster guid,ju’d stown a clue wi' onie body ;had a wife was dour and din,Tinkler Madgie was her mither ;Sic a wife as Willie had,I wad na gie a button for her.lie has an e’e, she has. but ane,ie cat has twa the very colour ;Jfve rusty teeth, forbye a.stump,ii!clapper tongue wad deave a miller;Jwhiskin heard about her mou,?r nose and chin thev threaten ither ;Sic a wife, S,-e.e’sbow-hough’d, sl)eys beam-shinn’d,; limpin leg a hand breed-shorter ;e’s twisted right, she’s twisted left,» balance fair in iika quarter ;24She has a hump upon her back,The twin o’that upon her shouther;Sic a wife, Q-c.Auld baudrans by the ingle sits,An’ wi’ her loot her face a washin ;But Will ie’s wife is nae sae trig,She digbts her grunzie wi’ a hushionHer walie nieves like midden-creels,Her face wad fyle the Logan-WaterSic a wife as Willie had,I wadna gie a button for her.FINIS.