THEMoiVTHiiY Scrap Booh,FOB A P B I Ii.Then all the boys]Shout l< Ah ! you April fools !” with clamorous noise ;And little girls enticed down stairs to see.Stand peeping, clap their hands, and cry 46 tee-hee !”Each gibing boy escapes a different way,And meet again some trick, “ as good as that,” to play.CONTENTS.The Cock Fight, a burlesque Sketch, 3Judge Jefferies, UDick and the Mermaid, an Irish Tale, .7.13A dangerous companion,   21The Rev. Mr Sheriff of Kirkcaldy, 23Garden Work to be done in April  .. 24DUNFERMLINE :PUBLISHED BY JOHN MILLER,Price One Penny ^THE WATER THIEF.1(For the Scrap Book.)An Abenlonian ship, call’d the Endeavour,Lay in the Thames, that stream, whose racy flavourGives zest to porter. This said vessel s crew'.Vere sworn at ciigbgate, to themselves still true ;All Yorkshire, ever zealous to protectTheir lumbers, ne’er on shore at night would venture.The boat was hoisted up to save the painter.While the coil’d cable lay secured on deck.At midnight, dreaming o’er their loves, the tarsIn luscious slumbers lock’d, were loudly snoring.While scouts were out upon their pilfering wars.And two bold thieves the drowsy scene exploring,Found all things ready (—never dreamt those wretches,.In search of ropes—of gallowses or Ketches !Cautious, as if spring-guns were planted there,One of the robbers scaled the ship with care,While his companion, rocking in the wherry,Chewing his quid, look’d every thing but merry .The water-thief, the cable’s folds divided.Which o’er the vessel’s dark sides smoothly glided,When, lo ! he started; for a sudden growlGrew to the roaring thunder of a howlFrom the roused watch-dog, that cried out so briet.Just in the nick of time, » Pray, catch the tlnct!Alarmed, the captain, and his drowsy crew,Sprung to the deck, with many an angry whewWhen casting up their red shot eyes, they sawThe culprit on the rigging, trembling wait,The dreadful sentence of his future fate,Told that the robber’s messmate fled from slaugnter ;For, slipping from the gunwale to the groundHe thought it no advantage to get drown d ;And, swimming to the shore, without his paddle,Bade an adieu to wherry, comrade, cab.eThe iolly tars, the knave’s intention scorning,Gazed on the caitiff, perch’d up in the shrouds,’ Ghastly aud grim, like Neptune m the cloudsJust threw a look of meaning to the rogue,Bade him, “ Good nightAnd left him to the dog,To freeze with cold, or die of fright,A prisoner till the morning light,THEMONTHIiY SCRAP BOOR.THE COCK FIGHT,A BURLESQUE SKETCHHere his poor bird, th* inhuman Cocker -brings,Arms his hard heel, and clips ins golden wings ;With spicy food th’ impatient spirit feeds,A nd shouts and curses as the battle bleeds.M hen fallen, the savage grasps his dappled plumes,His blood-stained arms for other deaths assumes ;And damns the Craven fowl, that lost his stake.And only bled and perished for his sake,Crabbe.It isjtot tliirty years since the barbarous practice of fight¬ing Cocks at Fasten’s-even was, as an annual entertain-ment, given by the teacher of almost every parish schoolto his scholars. When, how, or for what reason, this ab¬surdity in the education of children crept into schools, isnot easy to determine. We have assuredly a moreenlightened body in that profession now; and the“ Schoolmaster'' of these days is so effectually “abroad,”i that we hope there is not one who would permit, or even' countenance by his presence, such a relic of a barbarousage.. W e also hope there are but few, even of villagepublicans, who would he so accomodating as JonathanJmlie; and we record the following history as a sketchoi the folly of former times.Lhey crowd to the scene of action (Jonathanollie s malt-barn floor) ; the field is cleared ; and1 ie dreadful conflict begins. The combatants are( ced against each other by lot, and most unequallatches were the result. The first pair who4 THE MONTHLYentered the arena had never seen a battle, muchless shed their blood on the warlike field. Likeraw recruits, accustomed to the drum and fife onlyat parades and reviews, they had strutted on theirnative dunghills, and heard the echo of a rival’svoice, to which they gave a response, accompaniedby the quacking of docks and the cackling of allthe hens in the haram. Now that they have mettheir bosoms beat with youthful ardour ; not like ,two apprenticts, who, imitating the follies of thegreat, challenge one another to a duel, and whenmet, would both retreat, if either of them set theexample. Not so these youthful heroes ; the fea¬thers on their necks are ruffled—they fly at eachother—blood is shed—and the conflict becomesmore furious. Their want of skill is supplied bynative ardour—they strike with head and heels—breathe, and strike again ; at last, like generous iEnglishmen, who box each other from pure goodwill, they resign the contest as it were by mutualconsent.Next appears an ill-matched pair—a bird ofgame and a dunghill craven : the first paces the 1floor with martial strut and warlike air, shakes his-plumes, and looks with proud disdain upon histrembling antagonist, who droops his head, while jhis feathers collapse close around him ; he eyes hisenemy askance, and recreant like, runs round thepit to avoid meeting him ; then, as the last effortof despairing pusillanimity, gains a retreat behindthe spectators.Now comes forth a veteran, who had foughtmany a campaign—his rival, a youthful hero,SCRAP BOOK. -5whose prowess had been tried only with a striplingi like himself, hatched in the same nest, and bred ini the same barn-yard. In this mockery of war,: neither had ever felt the sentiment of “ victory ordeath !” Now the veteran views this young un-i seasoned warrior with disdain, nearly allied to cos.: tempt, indicating that he was a chicken, below a: hero’s notice. At length he darts an indignanti stroke, intended to drive the cadet from the field-7-it is returned—a dreadful conflict ensues—they1 fiadit—fail—rise and fiadit anfain : skill is on the! veteran’s side, but dauntless courage shakes thec youthful warrior’s glossy plumes. Both are[ strangers to fear, although experience has rendered1 the one cautious, while the other rushes on thei charge with all the ardour and temerity of youth.I Heedless of danger, he precipitates himself upon1 the foe, and meets the stroke that prudence wouldt have avoided-—wounded severely, breathless andt overcome, he makes a desperate but feeble attack; upon his antagonist, and falls lifeless on the bedof honour.There is a sympathy in nature, that impels heri f creatures to mingle in the scenes before them.- i'i War and all its horrors reigned in this hitherto;; peaceful region "; and so anxious were the intended; gladiators to join the carnage, that they pecked1 and struck at each other, as they sat on the laps oftheir owners. Cowardice was banished from everyi heart, and every breast heaved with the exultationof anticipated victory. During four long hours,i many were the victims of war. The dead and( dying were carried oft the field, to make room for|'AC ' THi; MONTHLYothers ; for the eyes >f the sanguinary spectatorswere not yet glufte*! with this scene of savagebarbarity.As on Marengo’s field, or Leipsic’s plain, manya valiant hero fou dit and fell uudistingtiished ;so here, the martial achievements of many a fea¬thered warrior mi st sink unrecorded. But onevery well contested field, there are some whosedeeds are so conspicuous, that our innate love ofvalour rescues them from oblivion. -Such was nowthe case— a-couple of heroes took their post on thefloor of blood, whose matchless prowess, and deedsof might, merit a place in the records of fame, anddeserve an abler historian.Not greater anxiety did Buonaparte feel at thebattle of Waterloo, when the fate of Europe de¬pended,on its termination, than was depicted on :the countenance of Dick Clover, when he placedIds hero on the floor. Sprung from a magna¬nimous and warlike race, whose blood is warmed ■by the fervours of a tropical sun, he claimed to be 1of Malayan extraction. Fierce and cruel in hisdisposition, a blow was never forgiven ; he hadbeen accustomed to fight, but knew not what it Iwas to retreat. Repeated victories had increased ihis pride, and, like some of his brother bipeds, hebelieved himself invincible. Black were his plumes,as the fur of the sable, and glossy as the raven’sjetty wing. Majestic was his stature, and proud- ily did he lift his head, as he looked around,while the glance of scorn flashed from his eyesHard and heavy were his heels, and death was intheir strokes ; but his leader, to fit him tor deedsSCRAP BOOK. 7of murder, had armed them with steel, that nonemight meet him with impunity.To oppose him in the field, came forth a warrior,under the protection of Peter Anvil. No foreignblood flowed in his veins, but courage and fortitudewere the characteristics of his family. Purple,orange, indigo, and white, mingled their shadeswith infinite variety, to give lustre to his vesture.The dignity of his air added to the elegance of hisexternal appearance ; never was more of beautyand majesty blended ; and, like the splendid gar¬ments of the eastern monarch’s soldiers, they ex¬cited a sigh of regret, that plumes of such exqui¬site richness should be stained with blood. Asthey entered the floor, every eye was fixed, andevery tongue was hushed in silence • They rushedupon each other with impetuosity ; fierce was theironset, and desperate the conflict ; feathers be¬strewed the floor, and blood sprung around. Thedelight of the spectators increased with the fury ofthe combatants ; a burst of transport went roundthe pit. Bets were laid—two to one—three toone—all were interested in the carnage, and impa¬tient for its issue. Guineas were sported by thetanners; crowns and half-crowns by the morecautious mechanics; while the motley mass ofspectators confined their bettings to gills or half-mutchkins of whisky toddy.Now the heio in black, with his armour of steel,like Napoleon’s Cuirassiers, seems to drive all be¬fore him. Anon, the speckled champion, like aScotch Highlander clad in his native tartan, fetchesa stroke that makes his antagonist reel. Anxiety8 THE MONTHLYdwells on every countenance, impatience sparklesin every eye, when the steel-mounted wan hr, bya well-aimed stroke, lays his party-coloured anta¬gonist apparently lifeless on the floor.As when Wellington’s heroes set up a ‘ Hurra!’that made the heart of every frenchman collapse,,like a bladder when an idle boy expels its internalair;—such was the shout now heard, and whichnearly rent the roof of Jonathan’s barn ; but being;recently built, and of good materials, it stood theshock, although the thatch was rumpled on the !roof; and the proprietor has often affirmed, that:previous to this event, his establishment was over- •run with rats and mice; but since that memora- ible exertion of lungs, not one has ever infested !the premises.Fate had not yet done tantalizing those, whowere so deeply interested in this most arduous andprotracted conflict. Scarce had the echo of the tpremature shout of victory died upon the ear ; thecobw'ebs pendent from the roof were still flutteringfrom the repercussion of the air ; when the spec¬kled chieftain rose, shook his ensanguined plumes,and looked calmly round him. yis haughty rivalstood at a slight distance, clapping his wdngs,“ Pride in his port, defiance in his eye.”Indignation wanned the breast of the discomfitedwarrior, and in the very moment that the fanciedvictor opened his mouth to sing “ lo triumphe !”the heel of his antagonist struck him in the throat,and checked in its passage the note of self-applause.SCRAP BOOK. 9Rage, redoubled by disappointment, now firedthe hero in black; he stood to the charge, and bya dexterous manoeuvre with his spur of polishedsteel, one of his rival’s orbs of vision was buried ineternal darkness. Such was the fury by whichthe weapon was impelled, that it sprung from theleg of its owner, hissed across the house like anarrow, and stuck in the breech of a cow boy, whosat upon the rafters.Still the battle rages: belts are doubled, wingsflutter, limbs dart, and beak meets beak. Theunfortunate half-blind hero receives another strokeon his remaining eye, it flashes a momentarygleam, fierce as the lightning, and closes in ever¬lasting shade.Breathless, but not vanquished, he sank on thefloor, and death seemed hovering over that devotedhead, from which the cheerful light was for everbanished. Again the adherents of the sable cham¬pion began to wake the shout of victory, when itsstarting note roused his prostrate .foe. Likeanother Polyphemus groping in his den, slowly hetraversed the pit in quest of his enemy ; heraised his head to listen for the steps of him whomhe could no longer behold. Again they meet, andblows are dealt with redoubled fury. The sight¬less warrior sometimes misses his stroke j but stillhe fights with one advantage—he shrinks not fromdanger which he no longer perceives. For a mo¬ment they pause, as if to call forth all their strength—expectation is on the rack, and anxious crowdsgaze in breathless solicitude. Here an eye beamsbright with hope j there the corners of a mouth10THE MONTHLYare curved in the wrinkles of despair. Again thecombatants meet, strike, and retreat ; at last theycome against each other with a shock, the impetusof which lays them both lifeless on the floor. Betsare still laid, not on the victor, but that they willyet rise and renew the horrid carnage.—It cannotbe, for“ All is still on Death’s devoted soLL”The vital sparks have fled, and they W'ho justbefore seemed inspired with interminable rage, nowlie stretched beside each other in lasting repose,and far more calmly than ever they slumbered onthe roost with the favourite females of theirseraglios.So must the proudest hero of the humanspecies rest. A few feet more of earth will servefor his peaceful bed—his laurels may flourish alittle longer—the trumpet of Fame, as it repeatshis name, may waken echoes at a greater distance :—his deeds of devastation and human carnagemay shine in song, and his name be blazoned on apage, that shall live when the heroes of my hum¬ble tale are forgotten. But on the theatre of theuniverse, amidst the immensity of Nature, howtrivial is the difference between the cock-pit andthe plains of Austeriitz ! and how unimportant area few centuries, more or less, of sublunary fame,when compared with Eternity.C To be concluded in our next.)-SCRAP BOOK.11JUDGE JEFFERIES.This infamous judge died in the Tower of Lon¬don, in 1689, whither he had been committed bytiie lords of the councib after he had been taken intile disguise of a common sailor for the purpose ofleaving England. He was born at Acton, nearWrexham, in Denbighshire, and being raised tothe bench, polluted its sancity by perversions cf thelaw. His habits and language were vulgar anddisgusting. John Evelyn says, “ I went this dayto a wedding' of one Mrs Castle, to whom I hadsome ob’igation ; and it was to her fifth husband,a lieutenant-colonel of the city. Site was thedaughter of one Bruton, a broom-mau, by his wife,who sold kitchen-stuff in Kent-street, whom Godso blessed, that the father became very rich, andwas a very honest man ; and this daughter was ajolly, friendly woman. There were at the wed¬ding the lord mayor, the sheriff, several aldermen,and persons of quality ; above all Sir GeorgeJefferies newly made lord chief justice of England,who, with Mr justice W ithings, danced with thebride, and were exceeding merry ! These greatmen spent the rest of the afternoon, till eleven atnight, in drinking healths, taking tobacco, andtalking much beneath the gravity of judges that hadbut a day or two before condemned Mr AlgernonSidney, who was executed the 7th of December,1683, on Tower-hill, on a single witness of thatmonster of a man, lord Howard of Escrick, andsome sheets of paper taken in Mr Sidney’s study,pretended to le written by him, but not fullyJ2 THE MONTHLYproved.” James 11. found Jefferies a fit instru¬ment for his arbitrary purposes. After the defeatof the duke of Monmouth in the west, he employ¬ed the most sanguinary miscreants, and Jeft'eries a-mong the rest, to wreak his vengeance on the de¬luded people. Bishop Burnet says, that Jefferies’behaviour was brutally disgusting, beyond any thingthat was ever heard of in a civilized nation ; “ hewas perpetually eithef drsnk or in a rage, liker afury than the zeal of a judge.” He required theprisoners to plead guilty, on pretence ot showingthem favour ; but he afterwards showed them nomercy, hanging many immediately. _ He hangedin several places about six hundred persons. Hieking had a daily account of Jefferies’ proceedings,which he took pleasure to relate in the drawingroom to foreign ministers, and at his table he calledit Jefferies’ campaign. Upon Jefferies’ return, hecreated him a peer of England, by the title of Earlof Flint. Dutiug these “ bloody assiststhelady Lisle, a noble woman of exemplary character,whose husband had been murdered by the Stuartparty, was tried tor entertaining two gentlemen otthe duke of Monmouth’s army ; and though thejury twice brought her in not guilty, Jeffenes sentthem out again and again, until, upon bis threaten¬ing to attaint them of treason, they pronounced herguilty. Jefferies, before he tried this lady, gotthe king to promise that he would not pardon her,and the only favour she obtained was the changeof her sentence from burning to beheading. MrsGaunt, a widow, near Wapping, who was a Bap¬tist, and spent her time in acts ot charity, was tiledSCRAP ROOK 13on a charge ot having hid one Burton, who, hear¬ing that the king had said he would sooner pardonrebels than those who harboured them, accused hisbenefactress of having saved his life. She wasburned at the stake. 1 he excellent William Penn,the Quaker, saw her die, and related the mannerof her death to Burnet. She laid the straw abouther for her burning speedily, and behaved herselfso heroically, that all melted into tears. Six menwere hanged at 1 yburn, on the like charge with¬out trial. At length, the bloody and barbarousexecutions were so numerous, that they spreadhorror throughout the nation. England was anuceldama ; the country, for sixty miles together,from Bristol to Exeter, had a new and terrible sortof sign-posts or gibbets, bearing the heads andlimbs of its butchered inhabitants. Every soul wassunk in anguish and terror, sighing by day and bynight for deliverance, but shut out of all hope, tillthe arrival ot the prince of Orange, on whom thetwo houses of parliament bestowed the crownJefferies had attained under James II. to the highoffice of lord chancellor. Hone.DICK AND THE MERMAID,A)i Irish Tale.On the shore of the Smerwick harbour, one finesummer’s morning, just at day-break, stood Dickhitzgerald “ shoghing the dudeeu.” which maybetranslated, smoking his pipe. The sun wasgradually rising behind the lofty Brandon, the darksea was getting green in the light, and the mists14 THE MONTHLYclearing away out of the valleys went rolling and curl¬ing like the smoke from the corner of Dick’s mouth.“ ’Tis just the pattern of a pretty morning,” saidDick, taking the pipe from between his lips, andlooking towards the distant ocean, which lay as stilland tranquil as a tomb of polished marble. “ V/ell,to be sure,” continued he, after a pause, “ hismighty lonesome to be talking to one’s self by wayof company, and not to have another soul to answerone—nothing' but the child of one’s own voice, theecho ! I know this, that if 1 had the luck, or may¬be the misfortune,” said Dick, with a melancholysmile, M to have the woman, it would not be thisway with me !—anti what in the wide world is aman without a wife ? He’s no more surely thana bottle without a drop of drink in it, or dancingwithout music, or the left leg of a scissars, or afishing-line without a hook, or any other matterthat is no ways complete.—Is it not so?” said DickFitzgerald, casting his eyes towards a rock upon thestrand, which, though it could not speak, stood up asfirm and looked as bold as ever Kerry witness did.But what was his astonishment at beholding, justat the foot of that rock, a beautiful young creaturecombing her hair, which was of a sea-green colour;and now the salt water shining on it, appeared inthe morning light, hke melted butter upon cabbage.Dick guessed at once that she was a Merrovv,although be had never seen one before, for be spiedthe little enchanted cap, which the sea people usefor diving down into the ocean, lying upon thestrand near her ; and lie had heard, that if once hecould possess himself of the cap, she would lose theSCRAP BOOK. 15power of going away into the water ; so lie seizedit with all speed, and she, hearing the noise turnedher head about as natural as any Christian.When the Merrow saw that her little diving-capwas gone, the salt tears—doubly salt, no doubt,from her—came trickling down her cheeks, and shebe gan a low mournful cry with just the tender voiceof a new born infant. Dick, although he knew wellenough what she was crying for, determined to keepI the cap, let her cry never so much, to see whati luck would come out of it. Yet he could not helpI pitying her ; and when the dumb thing looked upi in his lace, and her cheeks all moist with tears,[twas enough to make any one feel, let alone Dick,' who had ever and always, like most of his country-I men a mighty tender heart of his own.“ Don’t cry, my darling,” said Dick Fitzgerald;hut the Merrow7, like any bold child, only cried themore for that.Dick sat himself down by her side, and tookhold of her hand, by way of comforting her. ’ Twasin no particular an ugly hand, only there was asmall web between the fingers, as there is in aduck’s foot; but ’twas as thin and as white as theskin between egg and shell.“ V» hat’s your name, my darling ?” says Dick,thinking to make her conversant with him ; huthe got no answer ; and he was certain sure now,either that she could not speak, or did not under¬stand him : he therefore squeezed her hand in his,as the only way he had of talking to her. It’s the16 THE MONTHLYuniversal laugutgfe; and trtere’s not a woman in theworld, be she fish or lady, that does not understand it.The 'Merrow did not seem much displeased atthis mode of conversation ; and, making an endof her whining all at once—“ Man,” says she, look¬ing up in Dick’s face, “ Man, will you eat me ?”“ By all the red petticoats and check aprons be¬tween Dingle and Tralee,” cried Dick, jumpingup in amazement, “ I'd as soon eat myself, myjewel ! Is it 1 eat you my pet ?”“ Man,” said the iMerrow, “ what will youdo with me, if you won’t eat me ?”Dick’s thoughts were running on a wile : hesaw at the first glimpse that she was handsome ;but since she spoke, and spoke too like any realwoman, he was fairly in love with her. Iwasthe neat way she called him man, that settled thematter entirely.“ Fish,” says Dick, trying to speak to her afterher own short fashion ; “ fish,” says he, “ here smy word, fresh and fasting, for you this blessedmorning, that I’ll make you mistress Litzgeraldbefore all the world, and that’s what I’ll do.”“ Never say the word twice,” says she, “ I mready and willing to be yours, mister Fitzgerald ;but stop if you please, ’till I twist up my hair.It was sometime before she had settled it entire¬ly to her liking ; lor she guessed, I suppose, thatshe was going among strangers, where she wouldbe looked at. When that was done, the MerrovvSCRAP BOOK.17put the comb in her pocket, and then bent downher head and whispered some words to the waterth it was close to the foot of the rock.Dick saw the murmur of the words upon thetop of the sea, g'oing out towards the wide ocean,just like a breath of wind tippling along, and, sayshe, in the greatest wonder, “Is it speaking youare, my darling, to the salt water ?”“ It’s nothing else,” says she, quite carelessly,“ I’m just sending word home to my father, notto be waiting breakfast for me ; just to keep himfrom being uneasy in his mind.”“ And who’s your father, my duck? says Dick.“ What!” said she, “did you never hear of myfather? he’s the king of the waves, to be sure !”“ And yourself, then, is a real king’s daughter?”said Dick, opening his two eyes to take a full andtrue survey of his wife that was to be. “ Oh, I’mnothing else but a made man with vou, and a kingyour father ;—to be sure he has all the moneythat’s down in the bottom of the sea 1”“ Money,” repeated she, “ what’s money ?”“ ’Tis no bad thing to have when one wants it,”replied Dick; “and may be now the fishes have theunderstanding to bring up whatever you bid them?”“ Oh ! yes, they bring me what I want.”“ To speak the truth then,” said Dick, “ ’tis astraw bed I have at home before you, and that,I’m thinking, is no ways fitting for a king’s daugh¬ter ; so if ’twould not be displeasing to you, just18THE MONTHLYmention, a nice feather bed, with a pair of newblankets—but what am [ talking- about? mav be youhave not such things as beds down under the water?”“ By all means,” said she, Mr Fitzgerald—plenty of beds at your service. I’ve fourteen oys¬ter beds of my own, not to mention one just plant¬ing for the rearing ot young ones.”“ You have,” says Dick, scratching his headand looking a little puzzled. “ ’Tis a feather bedI was speaking of—but clearly, yours is the verycut of a decent plan, to have bed and supper sohandy to each other, that a person when they’dhave the one, need never ask for the other.”However, bed or no bed, money or no money,Dick Fitzgerald determined to marry the Mor¬row, and the Merrow had given her consent.Away they went, therefore, across the strand,from Gollerus to Ballinrunnig, where father Fitz-gibbon happened to be that morning.“ There are two words to this bargain, DickFitzgerald,” said his Reverence, looking mightyglum. “ And is it a fishy woman you’d marry ?—the Lord preserve us !—Send the scaly creaturehome to her own people, that’s my advice to you,wherever she came from.”Dick had the cap in his hand, and was about to :give it back to the Merrow, who looked covetously,at it, but he thought for a moment, and then says he—“ Your Reverence, she’s a king’s daughter.”“ If she was the daughter of fifty kings,” sakiFather Fitzgibbon, “ I tell you, you can’t marry"her, she being a fish.”SCRAP ROOK. 19“But,” said Dick a^ain, in an under tone1, “sheis as mild and as beautiful as the moon.”“ If she was as mild and as beautiful as the suu,moon, and stars, all put tog-ether, 1 tell you, Dick,said the Priest, stamping his right foot, “ you can’tmarry Iter, she being a fish“ But she has all the gold that’s down in thesea only for the asking, and I’m a made man if Imarry her ; and,” said Dick, looking up silly, “ 1can make it worth any one’s while to do the job.”“ Oh ! that alters the case entirely,” replied thePriest ; why there’s some reason nowin what yousay : why didn’t you tell me this before ?—marryher by all means if she was ten times a fish.Money, you £now, is not to be refused in thesebad times, and I may as well have the hansel of itas another, that may be would not take half thepains in counselling you that I have done.”So Father Fitzgibbon married Dick Fitzgeraldto the Merrow, and like -eny loving couple, theyreturned to Gojlerus well pleased with each other.Every thing prospered with Dick—lie was at thesunny side of the world ; the Merrow made thebest of wives, and they lived together in thegreatest contentment.It was wonderful to see, considering where shehad been brought up, how she would busy herselfabout the house, and how well she nursed the chil¬dren ; for, at the end of three years, there were asmany young Fitzgeralds—two boys and a girl.In short, Dick was a happy man, and so hemight have continued to the end of his days, if he20 THE MONTHLYhad only the sense to take proper care of what hehad got. One day when Dick was obliged to goto Tralee, he left the wife, minding the children athome after him, and thinking she had plenty to dowithout disturbing his fishing tacnle.DicK was no sooner gone than Mrs Fitzgeraldset about cleaning up the house, and chancing topull down a fishing n^t, what should she find be¬hind it in a hole in the wall, but her own cap. Shetoo^ it out and looKed at it, and then she thoughtof her father the King, and her mother the queen,and her brothers and sisters, and she felt a longingto go bacK to them. She sat down on a little stooland thought over the happy days she had spent un¬der the sea ; then she looKed at her children, andthought on the love and affection of poor DicK, andhow it would breaK his heart to lose her. “ But,”says she, “ he won’t lose me entirely, for I’ll comebac/e to him again, and who can blame me for goingto see my father and my mother after being solong away from them ?”She got up and went towards the door, but camebacK again to looK once more at the child that wassleeping in the cradle. She Kissed it gently, anda^ she Kissed it, a tear trembled for an instant inher eye and then fell on its rosy cheeK. She wipedaway the tear, and turning to the eldest little girl,told her to taKe good care of hfer brother, and to bea good child herself, until she came bacK. TheaMerrow then went down to the strand.— The seawas lying calm and smooth, just heaving and glit¬tering m the sun, and she thought she heard a faintsweet singing, inviting her to come down. All herSCRAP COOK.21old ideas and feelings came flooding over her mind,DicA and her children were at the instant forgotten,and placing the cap on her head, she plunged in.Dic£ came home in the evening, and missinghis wife, he asked Kathelin, his little girl, whathad become of her mother, but she could not tellhim. He then inquired of the neighbours, and helearned that she was seen going towards the strandwith a strange looking thing like a cocked hat inher hand. He returned to his cabin to search forthe cap. It was gone, and the truth now flashedupon him. Year after year did DicK Fitzgeraldwait expecting the return of his wife, but he neversaw her more. DicK never married again, alwaysthinking that the Merrow would sooner or laterreturn to him, and nothing could ever persuadehim but that her father the king Kept her below bymain force ; “ For,” said DicK, “ she surely w ouldnot of herself give up her husband and her children.”VARIETIES.A dangerous companion.—Between the years1750 and ITb’O, a Scottish lawyer of eminence madea journey to London. At that period such jour¬neys w ere usually performed on horseback, and thetraveller might either ride post, or, if willing totravel economically, he bought a horse, and soldhim at the end of his journey. The gentlemanabove alluded to, who was a good judge of horses,as well as an excellent horseman, had chosen thelatter mode of travelling, and had sold the horse onwhich he rode from Scotland as soon as he arrived22 THE MONTHLYin London. With a view to his return, he wento Smithfield to purchase a horse. J^bcut dusk, ahandsome horse was offered to him at so cheap atrate, that he was led to suspect the animal was un¬sound, but as he could discover no blemish, he became the purchaser. Next morning he set out onhis journey ; his horse had excellent paces, and the*few first miles, while the road was well frequented,our traveller spent in congratulating himself on hisgood fortune, in having made so good a bargain:On Finchley Common, and at a place where theroad ran down a slight ascent and up another, thetraveller met a clergyman driving a one-horsechaise. There was nobody within sight, and thehorse, by his manoeuvre, plainly intimated whathad been the profession of his former owner. In¬stead of passing the chaise, he laid his counter closeup to it, and stopt it, having no doubt but his riderwould embrace so fair an opportunity of exercising'his vocation. The clergyman, never doubting theidenity of the equestrian, produced his purse, un¬asked, and assured the astonished lawyer, that it wasquite unnecessary to draw his pistol, as he did notintend to offer any resistance. The traveller ral¬lied his horse, and, with many apologies to tiregentleman lie had so innocently and unwillingly af¬frighted, pursued his journey. The horse nextmade the same suspicious approach to a coach, fromthe windows of which a blunderbuss was levelled, withdenunciation of death and destruction to the rider,though sackless, as he used to express it, of all of¬fences in word or deed. In short, after his lifehad been once or twice endangered by the suspicionsSCRAP BOOK. 23to which the conduct of his horse gave rise, and hisliberty as often threatened by peace-officers, whowere disposed to apprehend him as a notorioushighwayman who had formerly ridden the horse,he found himself obliged to part with the inauspi¬cious animal for a mere tride, and to purchase, ata dear rate, a horse less showy, and of inferior ac¬tion, but of better moral habits.Anecdotes of Horses.The Rev. Mr Sheriff of Kirkcaldy.—In¬numerable characteristic anecdotes are told of thiscelebrated clergyman, who, for native humour andunrestiained freedom of speech, never perhaps hadhis equal in the Church of Scotland. It was oneof his many eccentricities to spea^ of secular, andeven familiar things, in the time of divine service,so as sometimes to overset the gravity of his con¬gregation. In the year 179‘f, when a number ofvolunteer corps were raised throughout the country,for the defence of government, a Kirkcaldy weaver,who had got himself decked out in the flaming uni¬form of the Kirkcaldy brigade, came one Sundayinto church, after the commencement of divine ser¬vice, and kept lounging about for some time in thepassage, to show himself in his new attire, althoughrepeatedly offered accommodation in the pews.Mr Sheriff was also prevented from immediatelyreprehending his vanity by his being engaged inprayer ; but, when that was concluded, he lookedover the pulpit and said to the new soldier, ‘ Sitdown, lad ; we ken ye’ve gotten new breeks, andwe’ll tak a leuk at them when the kirk skails.”24THE MONTHLYGARDEN WORK IN APRIL.This month requires the greatest exertions of any inthe year with the gardener, the ground being ready to re¬ceive whatever is planted or sown. Sow pease and beansand sallads, every ten or fourteen days. Plant potatoes,and transplant cauliflowers, lettuces, &c. Sow parsley,celery, endive, purslane, and pot sweet herbs. Hoe peaseand beans, and sow more for a succession : stick tall grow¬ing pease when four or flve inches high, and top beanswhen come to their full height. Thin out onions, carrots,turnips, and spinage. Plant evergreens in moist weather,and all kinds of flowering shrubs. Sow French beans indry weather. Water new planted trees in dry weather.Clear gravel walks and form thrift and box edgings.Sow all kinds of hardy flower seeds. Transplant tenderannual flowers from the hot bed.Many kinds of annuals and perennials, sown in Marchand the beginning of April, wdll be fit for transplantingabout the end of May, and may either be planted inpatches about borders, or in beds, as fancy shall direct.Of these, the kinds improved by transplanting are,amarauthuses, China asters, columbines, French and lovelies bleedihg, mallows, migiiionette, prince’s feather, sca¬bious, stocks, sun-flowers, sweet Williams, wall-flowers,and others. They should be planted out in a showerytime, if possible, or otherwise be frequently watered, tillthey have struck root.Aprii. 1 xt. ho. m.Day breaks 3 32Sun rises, 5 34——sets 6 26Twilight ends — 8 28April 30th. ho. m.Day breaks,  .2 18Sun rises, 4 39 sets,  7 21Twilight ends, 6 58