BURNING MOUNTAINSAN ACCOUNT OFTwo great and Dreadful/ORGANIC EPvUPTIGNSviz,TrfA'T OFIOUNT .-ETNA ik SICILY, i66n.ch laid waft? a great mit of the beautiful City.CAT AN LA find deftr y -d :n its-propr fs fhe>[Wcrty of near ti-iirty THousaNiJ ptRSONS.*   \AND THE LAtEDREADFUL ERUPTION OFMount Vefuvius in Italy.iiili bK-ke cut c n Uie iyti: or ]. ne ^94 arCtimud in tone about 10 day?; tRe lava <4'hich, c.ivoj.v.’hdn.cd, l unit, and dt {;rfry't d ti eJicatcll pail of the TOWN or 1 C RKD del *I OKI vO} allowing ilic untoi luirafc inlia*1 it 1 - i.  r... > U ■ M.;4!h-ijf.ms leantdy tiir;e to favc : oir Uye;,heat^Jg the wattvs to liuii a de- 'gi.ee, where it fell into the fed; thata great ro-ny boiled fiflt wereitenfkO Tig on its inrLre. . -Uitecled from Gregory’s Ever „my of Ntaured> > >>>>••,>>> > >•>•>•> > > > ' KDUNE Jk eopd £or tnd Spld by G. MJLI.T.K at whdr.Sbcp ffay ^[; j vanity ot^irai! Hift-jiKs, StinioD'uc. Cfctcvi tjw?,'ohildrtni Cooks and Pifturt*.; ft i CL M' SAf £ enj KIT All...in1 itAN ACCOUNTCF TWO'GREAT amdDREADFULVolcanic Eruptions, &c.Eruption of Mount Etna in Sicif, l '99.Mf ANY frvikirg remains of the greet ernptj,:VJL on in 1669 are ftill to he feen, and will longntinue as memorials of that dreadful event whicherwheUned Catania, and all theadjaremt country,■enpendous earthquakes ftork the iiland, and loutboterrareom o'ellowings v/ere heard ih t(?e moua.n. During feme weeks, the fun ceased to appear,d the day feeim d changed into ti ght. Borelhh, who.5 a witnefs to there terrible phencmeua,days’ thatlength a rent, twelve miles in length, was openedthe mountain, in fome places aL which, whenT *»vcw down li&ms, they could not fcesf sh<«\( 4Ireach the bottom. Burning rocks, fixty palmslength, were thrown to the clillance ot a mile, arItfler ftones were carried three miles. After thmoft violent ftruggles, and a disking of the who!illand, an immenle torrent of lava gufned from iImrent, and fprung up into the air to the heightlixty palms, whence it poured down the mountaiand overwhelmed every object in its way in cpromifeuous ruin.This deftruclive torrent, which burfl; from t! ,fide of ^itr.a at a place <al!ed Kicir i, rufhed impe ,tuoufly againft the beau’dul mountain of Montpt.fieri, and pierced into the ground to a confiderab!depth; then dividing and furrounding the momtain; it united again cn the fenth fide, and pour< 1defiolation upon the adjacent country. The pregrefs of the torrent was at fit ft at the r»,te of feve-miles a day, but it afterwards rock four days ttravel fixteen; wherever it dirt died its ccurf'e, tilwhole appearance of nature was changed, feverhiihs were formed in plat, « which were formerralleys, and a large lake was fo entirely filled ubv the melted mafs, as ret to leave a vefliy'e reman:ug. Initscourfe it defeended upon a vineyard, bier-gieg to a convert of jefuits, which was formeupca an ancient and probably a very thin layer <lava, with a nun.her of caverns and crevices urdijt. The liquid mafs entering into thefe excavatioifcoh filled them up, and by degrees1 bore up ttVineyard, which in a (hi rt t mtf, -to the.great afttnilhn.ent of thefpedlators, began to move avaand was carried by the torrent to a confiderabdiftatrte. In j^o feme remairs of this vireyarwere tiiUbo be ieer, but the greater part of itemlreiy defho/ed. * •in vain did the terrified inhabitants of C«tanrecur for protUUcr. to the n.imulcus veil, ore:defenci from the lofty v/a]ls of their city. Al-er deftroying feveral convents, churches, and vii-•agesv this fiery current direftei its courfe to Ca-i<iia, where it panned i npetuoufly over the ram-Safts, which are near t;xtT feet in height, and co-F.-red up live of hs baltions, with the interveningilurtains. After laying wafte a great part of this•;eautiful city, and entirely deftroying feveral vala-•jlple remains of antiquity, its farther progrefs wasjioppcd by the ocean, over whcife banks it poureds deftrmftive current. In its courfs from the rentIt the mountain, till its arrival in the fea, it is faid•> have totally defb oyed the property of near thirtywufand peri'ons.S'; Eruption of Mmnt'Vcfuvm fo Italy, 17)4.IT"’HE mountain had been remarkably quiet for!.|ij fevea months before the late eruption, nor|d the ufual fmoke hTue from its crater, but atines it emitted fmall clouds or fmoke that floatedthe air in the fliape of little trees, it was re-arked by the Father Antonio di Petrizzi, a capu-In friar (who printed an account of the late erup-l*n) from his convent clofe to the unfortunatepvn of Torre del Greco, that for lome days pre-Iding tins eruption, a thick vapour was feen torround the mouhtain, about a quarter of a"mitepedth its crater, and it was obfei'ved by him andlers at the fame time, that both the fan and the:an had often an unufual reddilh call.The water of the great fountain at Torre del■ 'cco began to decreafe feme days before the erup-n, fq that the wheels of a corn mill, worked hyit water, moved very flowly; it was hecelTa-y ■11the other Wells of the town aqq its neignbou;-oJ to lengthen the ropes daily, in order to readthe water; and feme of the wells Wearae quite drjAlthough mofr oi the mhahitiHits were icnliblsthis i>Sr.nometion, not one 'of them fectus to ha'*|f'jfpetfitd^, the true caufe of it. Bight days aifo b;fore the eruption, a m*n and two bdvs. ivineyare: above Vorre del GTeco (and precilely ojfthe foot wiirre one of the new mouths open:whence the principal current of lava that deflrovithe town jflhwy were much alarmed by a luddepuff of fmoke which iffaed from the earth clofe tthem, and was attended with a flight explofion.Had this circumflance, wnth that of the fubtcraneous noiffs heard at Rehria for two days befoithe eruption (with the additional one of the dcreefe of water in the wells) been communicated .the time, it would have required no great forcfigl!to have, been certain than'an eruption of the voirro.was near at hand^ and that it-, force w..s dire^ted pariictilarly towards that part of the nyouotaitO ’' ihe’ i mb of June 1794, in the morning, thei:was a vie’ent fall of rain, and foon after the inhhit ants <of Rcflna, ifituated dvrebHy over the an.iet1town of Hercuianeum, were fenlible of a rumblit:iubterrancous noife, which was not heard at Kpies.F*bm the month of January to the month ■May, the atmoiphere had been generally cairn, ai •there was continued dry weather, In the. monof May thert was a little rain, but the veatlu/r w.uftufua'iy fftltry. For fdme days preceding the erut;on, tiff. Duke della Torre,'a learned a»d inucipus nobierdruff who publiihe.d two letters upon tfubfffft of the erlipt-ien, obferved by his electronsfvrs. Vh.at the atmofphcre was ciurged in cx;e'With the tT-fflric fluid,' and-con'jmjfvU fo for le«|i^af days during tTp eruption.Ahaut eievtn o’clock on the night of the tt l 1June, tfie Innaljitauts of Nip’es were all feBubtca violent Iftocfc of an earthqMake; the undulatory■lotion was evidently from ei.t to veft, and appear-to have lilted near half a minute. The iky,iakh had been quits clear, was loan after coveredth black clouds, dh'e inhabitants of the townsd villages, which are very.numerous at the foot| Vefuvius, felt this earthquake ftiil more icnli-and fay, that the (hock at firft was from thettorn upwards, alter which followed the undulati-frotn call to weft. This earthquake extendedover the Campagna Felice; and ths royal palace attfcrta, which is Mfteen miles from Naples, and one1 the moft magnificent andfoiui buildings in Europejae walls being eighteen feet thick) was (Taken hih a manner as to cauie great alarm, and all theamber hells ran'cr. It was likewile much felt ati~ameventura, about thirty miles from Naples; atidAriano in Puglia, which is at a much greaterfiance; both theic towns, indeed, have been or-a afflidled with earthquakes.On Sunday the i£th of June, foon after tendock at night, another (hock of an earthquake|is felt at Naples, but did not appear to be quiteviolent as that of the i2tb, nor did it lad fbat the lame moment a fountain of bfiyht tire,ended with a very black fmoke and a loud re-rt, was feen to iflue, and rife to a great height,m about the middle of the cone of Veluviut;on after another of the lame kind broke out atue little didance lower down; then, as is fupoof-by the blowing up of a covered channel fullred hot lava, it had the appearance as if the lavai u' en its ccurfe dircci-y up the fteep cone oft;,e volcano Freda fountains fuececbed one s-ther ha'.tiiy, and all in a dirt cl litre tend tin?, forjut a mile and a half down, towards the towns or\ u )jRcriina and Torre del Greco. Sir William' Hahjjton could count fifteen of them, but believes t!i£were others obfeured by the finoke- It feems p#bable, that'all thde fountains of fire, from thtbeing in foch an exicl line, proceed’d/from ttand the fame long fififare down the tlaaks of tjmountain, and that the lava and other volcar;matter forcednts way out of the wide ft parts ofcrack, and formed there the little mountains acraters that wili be deferihed in their proper plait as impoffible that any defeription can give an icf the blazing fetne, or of the horrid noifies tlattended this great operation of nature. It wafixture of the loud eft thunder, with inceliantports, like thofe from a numerous heavy artille;accompanied by a continued hollow mummer, 1: Ithat of the roaring of the o.ean during a viole.ftcrtn; and, added to thole w^s another blowijnnife, like that of the afeending. of a large fligj .cf fky-rockets, or that which is produced by the ation of the enormous billows on the furnace of CCitron iron foundery in Scotland. The frequefalling of the huge ftbnes and fcorins, winch \v£ ,tl’.rown up to an incredible height from fome of t;new mouths, one of which having been tince mifared bv the Abbe Tata was ten feet high, atthittyfive in circumference, contributed uudoutedly to the (onrutiion of the earth anT air, whi .kept ail the houfes at Naples for feverai hours into nil ant fremor, every door and window flnakiiand rattling incefiantly, and the bells ringinThis was an-awful moment! The fky, from a brig .fud moon dud ftarlieln, beam to- be oblcuredi t.uixocm had prdcutly tiv« appearance of being in|bc’uple, and loon after w«s totally loft in oi>icur;j• ']>.(. nTKrmrr of the praytrs and ta*uenta(i»ns onr utiietouLS populace forming various pfotclhuti( 9 )S'parading in the ftreets, added to the horror; the lava did not appear to have yet a futikienlit, a/id it was now evident that the earthquakes|;ady felt had been occafioned by the air andy matter confined within the bowels of thef untain, aftd probably at no fmall depth (confi>fling the extent of thofe earthquakes) bir Wii-recommended so the company that was with, who began to be ni'trch alarmed, rather to gcI view ti;e mountain at foroe greater diftance, andj:he open air, than to remain in the honfe, which•is on the lea fide, and in the part of'N^fes thati'reared and moft expofed to Vdhvius, They ac-i|idingly proceeded to Pofilipo, r.-.d viewed'the con-fjration, now become ftiil more co'rvfderable,m the fea fide under that mountain; but whetherrm the eruption having increafed, or from thereports of the volcanic explofior.s being re¬ted by the mountain behind them, the noifs wash louder, and more alarming than. that theyheard in their firfl: pofkion, at leafr a mile near-0 Vcfuvius After fome time, and which w.;sut two o’clock in the rriorning of the iAth, hav-ebierved that the lavas ran in abundance,ly, and with great velocity, having made a con-rable progress toward: Retina, the town winedrft threatened, and that the fiery vapours which1 been confined had now free vent through r, aifcts of a crack of mo e than a mile and a hr.if i iTth, as was evident from the quantity efirfiam*matter and black mane, which continued toe from-the new mouths above mentioned, with-any interruption, our author concluded th.T atpies ail danger from earthquakes, which hr d■u his greateft apprehenfion, was totail . removtii.i he Veturncd to his fcrasier Nation *t -St.Naples.( ro )All this timf. there vns not the irrailed appearanof fre or fmcke from the crater on the fummitVefuvinsj but the black frroke and aflies ifluir]continually from fo many new mouths, or craters rformer? an enormous and denfe body of clouds ove: 1the whole rr.runtain, and which begsn to give fierof being replete v ith the electric fluid, by exhibitIng flaflies of that fort of zrg zag lirhtnirg,'whiclin the volcanic language of die country is calleJcrilh, and -which is the ccnflar.t attendant on tbrr.oft violent eroptions.bir William Hamilton proceeds to remark, thatdm ing thirty years that be had refided at Naples;and in' which (pace-of tin e he had been witnei's tcmany eruptions of Vefuvius, of one fort or othehe never faw the cloud of frnoke replete with thcleffric f.re, except in the two great eruptions dJCrSy, that of i 770, and during this more for mi .cable one. The elcebic fire, in the year Jpyp;that played cen^antly within the enormous blackcloud over the < rater of Veluvius, and feldom quir¬ted it, vi as exacllv fjmi’ar to th.at w hii b is produc> ;cd, on a very fcale, by the condu£lor of ar ;cleci'rical machine communicating with an infultecplats' of glaff, thin y fpregd over w ith metallic fil.b : when the el< dtric matter cc-ntinuesto pla^over it in zig z g lines without quitting it. He was!' not f nflble 6f any noife attending that eperatiorin 1779; whereas the difeharge of t'e eledtricaimatter from the volcanic c'ouus during this eruptt-on, ?nd 'paiticularly the fecond and third • day*,can ft 1 cirplofors like thole of the lottdeft thunder;an-l indeed the floims railed evidenriy by the foiepover of the volcano, refembled in evei y refp dla'lother thuhder-flornis; the lightning failing andd - f roying every th , g in its courfe. T he houfeof the Marquis of iicrio at St. jorio, litunted at thef t r- ' .c* of Vcfufius, during oneofthefc votcarilc florin*'as firnck with !:gh*ning} wbi h having fhattcred( any doors and windows, and damaged the furni-! ire, left for feme time a ftrong fmell of fulphnr ine rooms it paffed through. Out of thefe gigantichd volcanic clouds, beiides the lightning, both du-|ig this eruption and that of 1779, the authords, he had, with many others, feen balls of firej ue, and fome of a confiderable rmgnitude, wh:chtrfting in the air, produced nearly the fame effetfr:: that from the air-haloons in fire-works, the eleojic tire thpt came out having, the appearance of therpents with which thofe fire-work baloons are of-n filled. The day on which Naples ms in thefi eatefl danger from the volcanic clouds, two (mallIdis of fire, joined together by a final! link like alain-fliot, fell clo;e to his Cafino at Pofilipo; ti e/jarred, and one fill in the vineyard above the-uk*, and the ether in the fea, fo ciofe to it, thatt heard the fplafh in the water. The Abbeata, in ins printed account of this eruption, men-ms an enormous hall of.this kind which flew cutil the crater of Vetuvius while he1 was fiancing on;ie edge of it, and which burft in the a:r at tomeiftanee form the mountain, foon after v hi. h heai d a noife like the fall c £ ftones,' or of a heavyotver of hail. During the eruption of the 15thnight. fv W of the inhabitants of Naples, from< e dread 'of earthquakes, ventured to go to thu.«!:ds. the common people were either emp \fedi!l devout procelnons in the ftreets. or were fltep-i g on the quays and ooeh placesfi the nob sty andmt'\. having caufedtheir horfies to be taken frem,eir carriages, flrpt in them in the (’quart’s and'en place?, or on the high roads jufl our of the■Wn. For feveral days, while the volcanic fternas• thunder and lightning lafleci, the i: habitants ati- 5I( 12 >thi foot of the volcano, both cn the fea .fide an«LdnSomma fidey wene often ftnflble of a tremor in tlearthy as well as of the concufiions jn the air, bti«t-Naples only the eartliquakes of the 12th an15th of June were diftinelly and univerlally feiflthis fair city could not certainly have ref fted, ha*not thofe earthquakes been fortunately of a fltoduration. Thougheut this eruption, which com.sued in force about ten days, the fever of thmountain, as has been remarked in former eruptil •ons, fiiowed itfelf to be in fotue mealure periodicaland generally was maft violent at the break of dayat noon, and at midnight.About four o’clock in the morning of the i6tbthe crater of VefuviK? began to (hew figns of bcimopen, by feme black imoke ii'uiin^r out of it; amat day-break another fmoke, tinged with red, iilu*ing from an openino near the crater, but cn theother fide of the mountain, and facing the townof Ottaiano, (hewed that a new mouth had openedthere from which a coniiderable tlream of lava him red, .and ran with great velocity through a wood*which it burnt; and having run about three milesin a few'hours it flopped bttore it had arrived at thevineyards and cultivated-lands. The crater, and allthe tdntcal part of Vefuvius, was foqn involved inck'tHs ind darkotfs, and lo it r cm aim ci for (cverafdays; but above thtfe‘clouds, although pf a great!height, frefir columns of fmoke were (ten from the:crater, rifinyr funoufly ftiil higher, until the wholemafs remained in the thud form of a pine-tree;and.Tn that gigantic ma(s of heavy clouds the feriili,or volcanic Hgfrtiiino-, was frccjuemly vifible, evenin the clay time. About five o’clock in the mor¬ning of the tbih, the lava which had fir ft brokencut from the feven’l new mouths on the (both fideci'the mountain, hod reached the fea, and wasI ff( 13 ).nilng Into it,having overwhelmed, butriL, and del.jyed the greatefl part of Torredel Greco, the prin-a] ftream of lava havmg taken its coarfe through.: very center cf the town. They oblerved frvniples, that when the lava was in the vineyards in► way to the town, there iffued often, and in dihtisnt p-'rts of it, .• bright pale flame, and veryliferent from the deep red of the lava;, this wasI aliened by the burning of the trees that fup-i ted the vines. Soon after the beginning of this‘ ydon, afhes fell thick at the foot of the moun.lit, ah the way fion: Fortici to the Torre del Gre-II and what is remarkable, althtJUgh there weret,i at that time any clouds in the air, except thofe(moke from the mountain, the afhes were wet,accompanied with large drops of water, whichi to the tafte very fait; the road, which is pav-1 was as wet as it there had been a heavy-fhoweri' in. Thofe a fires were black and coarfe, likefan'd of the 4ea-fl‘ore, whereas tho'fe that’ fellre, and at Naples feme days after, were of a<t•grey colour, and as fine as Spanrfli fnuff, ordtr bark. They lontaincd many faline parricies;fe allies that lay on the ground, expofed to thening fun, hsda coat of thewhiteft yovd ron theirace, which to the tafle was extremely fait andgcr.f. In the prim«ri sb count cf the emptiop,i-u.anuel Scotti, dc£tor of phylic and prufeffor[■iiilefophy in the univerlity c l Niple?:; he lup-j s (which appears to be highly probable) thatji water which accompanied the fall of the afhesbe beginning of the eruption, 1 as produced by| mixture of the inflammable and dopMcgillkat-ir.1 y the time that the lava bad reached the fca,'ten five and fix o’clock in the morning cF-theVefuvius was fo comple tely revolved in(iarknefs, that the violent operation of nature tl |was going on there could no longer be difcermliand fo it remained for feveral clays; but the dmrfuKnoife, and the red tinge on the clouds over t|top of the mountain, were evident'figns of the ac|vity of- the fire undernesth The lava ran 1|flawly at Torre del Greco after it had reached t|fea; and on the 17th of June in the morning, icourfe was fiopped, excepting that at times a lit jrivulet.of liquid fire iffed from under the fmoki[;fcoriae into the fea, and caufed a hilling noife, a|a white linoke; at other times, a quantity of larifcoriae were pufh'ed off the fur face of the body|the lava into the lea, difcovering that it wasredltunder that fur face; and even to the latter end |-Auguft the center of the thickeft port ot the lalthat covered the town retained its red iv-at. {'Ibreadth of the hva that ran into the fea, aj:formed a new promontory there, after having clfi row d the gre neft part of the town of Torre riQrecc, having been exactly meafured by the dul.deiia Lorre, is of Englilh feet 1704. Its height abJthe k i ;s twelve fee-, and as many feet under v|ter; fo that its whole height is t ventv.four feet,|extends into the lea 626 fret. The lea water ulboiling 35 in a cauldron, where it walked ;'hc fc|* f;f this mew termed premonitory: and although c|-author was at lea ft a hundred yards front it, obfeitina that the le^ I'm oak cd near his host, he rut llhand into the « 'ter, which was literally f. aide-and by ibis tirus'his boatmen obferved that ‘ cpitch .from the bottom of the boat was melting fsami floating on the liar face of the lea, and that rboat began to leak; he therefore retired haftfrom this ipot, ami landed at Ibrr.e diftance from, thot kv;:. The town of Torrt del Greco contaira'Dcut tSp.c'o Inhabitants, ail of whom (cx.epti( *5 )115,'wKo from either age or infirmity could notmoved, and were overwhelmed by the lava in'ir houfe?) efcaped either to Caflel-a-mare,ch w'as the. ancient Stahiae, or to Naples; but■ rapid progbefs of the lava was fuch, after it hadred its courfe from Refina; which town it firfti^attned, and had joined a frefh lava that ilTuedin one cf the new mouths in a vineyard, abouti!e from the town, that it ran like a torrent evertown of Tor; e del Greco, allowing ti e unfor-fate inhabitants fcarcely time to fave their lives;r goods and efTefts were totally abandoned, andted fcveral of tre inhabitants, whofe houfes hadn furoundtd with lava while they remained inp, efcaped from them, and faved their lives thebwinw day, by comino out of the tops of theirTes, and walking over the fcoriae on the fur face(he redrot lava. Five or fix old nuns were ta-■ cut of a convent in this manner, on the 16 hjure, and carried over the hot. lava; their f'upi-1v as fuch, as rot to ];ave been the kaft alarm-cr fenfible of. thtir d. nger: one of upw-ards ofty ye*a/s of aye was found afluaily warming In r-jat a point of redact lava, which touched the■ low of her'cell, and which fire fiaid was very1 f01 table; and though new appr z< d cf theirgfr, they were ftiif'very miwiiung to ieave thecent, in which the had #been fi.ut up alntoft5 their infancy, thtir ideas brine; ts limited asfpree they inhabited, flaying bet n dci’rcd to• : up whatever they iv d tint was-n^od valuablef all loaded thcmfelves with bifeks and fwcet.ts, and it v as but by accident it was-diftGvertdthey iiad'!eit a futn ©f money behind 'them,h was recovered tor them.he iava psfl'd over the center and heft rart oftown;, no past of the, cathedral icmaiueG aboveIt(it )j except the upper part of a fquare brick 'tcnvJJn which were the bells; and it is a curious circucfiance, that thofe bells, although they were nenkcracked nor melted, were deprived of their tone jmuch as if they had been cracked. When the latjlfir ft entered the (ea it threw up the water to a pr*|digious height; and particularly when two pointslava met and inclofed a pool of water, that vafilwas thrown up with great violence, and a loud r|port: a% this time, as well as the day after alfo.great many boiled fifh were feen floating onfurface of the fea.The lava over the cathedral, and in other pmof the totrn, is laid to be upwards of forty feet Ithicknds;' the general height of the lava dnrirjits whole courfe was #bout twelve feet, and in 1’ortiparts not lefs than <>. mile in breadth.When Sir William Hamilton vifited it on t’|jijth of June, the tops of the houfes were juft vil|ble here and i: »ere in fome parts, and the timhelwithin ftill homing cauled a bright flame to ifjilout of the furface; in other parts, the fulphur anjfalls exhaled in a white fmoke from the lava, fo'rnirirsg avwhite or yellow cruft on the f oriel: round ttffpots where it iflued with the greateit force. f;|often heard iittle txplofiohs, and law that thfjiblew up, like little mines, fragments of the (corisrar J afn« into the air;, thefe he fuppofes 'to haibeen occalioned either by rarefied air in confine!e liars, or, perhaps, by fmall portions of gunpovder t a kino fire, as few in that country are without}gun and fpme little portion of gunpowder m the!houfes. A ■ the church feafts there are ufuaily aitended with fireworks and crackers, a fire wornmaker of the town had a very great quantity of firrworks ready made for an approaching feaft, a>'i{oinc gunpowder, all of which had been Ihut up* / /h<>;>ft- bv tbe lava a part of '.vhich hs 1 even sn-ed one of tlie rooms; yot be aclually faved a!! hiseworks and gunpowder fome days after, by ear¬ning 'hrrnfafciy over the fcoriae of the lava, while, km as red hot underneath. The heat in the (ireetsthe town, at this time, was fo great as to rifethermometer to very near one hundred degrees,d dole to the hot lava it rofe much higher. Siriiliani remarked in his way home, that there wasi nuch greater quantity of the petroleum floatingthe furface of thefea, and diffufing a very flrongd offenlive fmell, than was ufual; for at all timesi calms, patches of this bituminous oil are to beI bn floating on the furface of the lea between Por-i i and Naples, and particularly oppolite a villagedied Pietra Bianca. The minute afhes continuedjiing at Naples; and the mountain, totally ebfeur-:! by them, continued to alarm the inhabitantsrepeated loud explolions.|Ou Wednefday June 18, the wind having for aJljort fpace of time cleared away the thick cloudlinn the top of Vefuvius, it was now difeoveredfat a great part of its crater, particularly on the:ft fide oppofr.e Naples, had fallen in, which itlobably did about four o’clock in the mornbg ofday, as a violent fiiock of an earthquake wast at that moment at Retina, and other parts fitu-d at the foot of the volcano. The clouds ofoke, mixed with the afhes, .were of fuch a den-as to appear to have the greateft difficulty Incing their paffage out of the now widly extendeduth ef Vefuvius, which, fince the top fell in; is.cribed as not much fnort of two miles in tircum-•ence. One cloud heaped on another, and fa:-eding one another incellantly; formed -in a fewnrs fuch a gigantic and elevated column of therkeft hue over the mountain, as feemed to thxta-ten Naples with immediate defliufVion,, ha™at one time been bent over the dry, and appear! ito be much too mafive gnd ponderous to remjjlong fuiperuled in the air- it w«s, be Tides, rep}|ith the fcri'li, or volcanic lightning, which dfttonger than common lightning.Vefuvi> s was at this time completely covered,{|were, all. me oid b:ack lavas, with a thick coat Ithole line light-grey allies already fallen, whichit a cold and horrid appearance; and in compaof the abovenientioned enormous mais of clou* vwhich certainly, however it may contradict our idof the extenlion of our atmofphere, role many nkabove the mountain, it appeared like a moteh*although the perpendicular height of Vefuvi.from the levgi of the lea, is more than three thd ,height. Dr Scotti, in his printed account of t!eruption, lays, that the height of this threaning cloud of fnaoke and allies, meafured fraN aples, w as found to be of an'elevation of thirdegrees. •ri-.e Itorms of thunder and lightning,' attendat times with heavy fails of rain and allies, caulk jthe axolf cieitruftive torrents of water and clutino'''i .ud, mixed w th huge dbnes, and trees torn up!me roots, continued mpre or lefs to alliicl the ink! “;de ef the tnou'^tam, came dawn with a horriding noife; and fo'.ne of them, after havingtd their way through the narrow g tUies of thentain, r.ofe to the height of more th <n tv.antyand were near half a mile in extent. T teof'which the torrents were conipofed, being(1 of natural mortar, completely cafed up andLied lo;ne thoufand acres of rich vineyards-, forjjoa becomes lb herd, that nothing Ids than aijjxe can break it up.me laudable curiqiityof our author induced him0 upon Mount Vefuvius, as loon as it was con-it wirh any degree of prudence, which was notthe 30th of June, and ever, then it was at-pd with fome rifk. The crater of VeluviuSjpt at fhort interval, had been continually ob.d by the volcanic clouds from the i6t 1, an Jifo on that day, wit-h frequent fL .dies o> light-| placing in thofe clouds, and attended as ulu il1 a nolle like thunder; and the dn-e afhes werefaith);-* on Vefuviiis. but Hill us«>rc -on thentatn ofSomrna. 8tr William, went up the1 way by Retina, and observed-, in his way||ugh that village, that many of the (tones of the|.rent Had been loof*ned} and were derangedhe earthquakes, particularly by that cf the, which attended the falling in of the crater cft/olcano, and which had been fo violent as tom many people do.vr1., and obliged all the in*rants of Retina to quit their houfes baddy, to:h they did not dare return for two days. The-s of ail the vines were burnt by the adits thatfallen on them, and many of tire vines thena¬rs w *e buried under the a«h?s, 'and greatmhes of the trees tint Ibpporred them had beenOrf by their . e.ght. In thbrf, nolhmg obtbud ddbhttion was to b-c f.en Tue a‘iris atflic foot of the mountain were about ten or tinches thick on the iurface of the emh, bp opnrtion as he afcended, their thicknefs ine<i to feveral feet, no lefs than nine or ten inp itts; fo that the furface of the o!d rug ged 1that bstore was alraoit impra^licable, was nowcome, a perfect plain, over which he walked ’Ithe greatelf ealc. The a flies were of a lightcolour, and exceedingly fine, fo that by theflops being marked on them as on fnow, he lthat three finall parties hid been up before him'|faw likewlle the track of a fox, which appear?have been quite bewildered, to judge from thri/turns he had nude. Even the traces of lizand other little animal?, and of infefls, were vi, ime a'ne«. Sir \Villt i n and hi« rn'riri iron thele fine a hes. bir Wihia n and his comp*on afeended to the fpnt whence the lava of the tI ' ll iitiud, and folioived the courfeof it, \yhich jflill very hot (although covered with fuejt a tErout 01 athes> quite down to the fea at TorreGreco, which is more than five miles. It waspofli’oie to get up to the great crater of Vefuv tnor had any one tet attempted-it. The hochafms that exilled from the fpot were tReeruption firfttook place, in a llra’t line lor rtwo nailes towards the fea, cannot be imagic«They formed values more than two hundred . :deep, and from Haifa mile to a mile wide;where the fountains of fiery matter exiftedrim* the emotion, were little mountains wi h ccraters. Ten thouiund men, in as many VCcould not make inch an alteration on the faceVcfuvius Except tiie exhalations of fulphnraad vitriolic vapours, which broke out from di<nt. fpots of the line -bo^-enaentio;red, and tinjthe fnrfjce of the afhns and Icorjae in thofe pjwith either a deep or pale-yellow, with a redd* _■ " I"ri  .( 21 ): colour, or a bright wliite, in fome partsit<j deep green and azure blue (i'o that the wholeHer lad the effect of an iris) all bid the ap-nee of a iandy defer:,. Our ad- enturers then«an thetopofitven of the mo ft conbdrrabie qttew formed mountains, and looked into theirt, which on feme of them appeared to be lit.i; ,)rt of half a mile in circumference; and ah-h the exterior perpendicular heigh of anyem did not exceed two hundred feet, th*s of tlteir inverted (ore within vas tl rte timesi:at. It would not have been pcffible to have:cd on thefe new mountains near their craters,;y had not taken the precaution of tying ae handkerchief over their nw uths and noflrils;tven with that precaution they could not re-ing, the fumes of the vitriolic acid were fo ex*|igly penetrating, aitd of fuch a fufjocating, y. They found in one a double crater, likeMnnels joined together; and in all there wasHlittle fmcke and depoiitions of faits and iul., , of the various colours abovementioned, juftnen mcnly fetn.adhering to the inntr walls ofrincipal crater cf.Veluvius.co or three days after they had been there, one;e new mouths, into which they had locked,July made a great explohcn of hones, fn oke,ijfhts, which would certainly have proved ratal|L one who might unfortunately have beenI at the time of the explofcn. We read of ar accident having proved fatai to more thany people, who had the curicfity lock intorater of the Monte Kuovo, rear Puzzuoli, aays alter its formation, in the year 1538. Theof Augull, Sir William faw a fudden exploii-Jn.oke and allies thrown to an extreme height: the great crater ol VTfuvius, that muft have2ZJhalf a nilltf of it; arM|en the 19th of fuly a party not only hadcrater, but had descended 170 feet within it.deftroyecl ary one ?.irtifnthey were oa the mountain, two whirlwinds^yffly likethofe that form water-fpouts at |ea, n|their appearance; and one of.them,'which ^yas-.near, made a ftrange rufhing noife, and havirtken up a great quantity of the fine afhes, forthem into an elevated fpiral column, which,whirling motion and great rapidity, was cattowards the mountain of Somma, where itand was difperfed. One of our author’s fervjemployed in coliefling of fulphur, or fal amm :ac. which cryftalizies near the fumarcli. as th?called (and which are the fpots whence the ho|pnvr iflues cut of the frefih lava) found to hi? £ [furprize, an exceeding cold wind ifliic from a fitvery near the hot fumarcli upon his leg. In a 1vard not in the fame line with the new-foj- ;fftmountains juft deferibed, but in a right line 1them, at the diftence of little more than afrom Torre del Greco, they found three ormoreofthefe new-formed rncuntains with eraout of which the lava flowed, and by unitingthe ftreams that came from the higher mouths,adding to their heat and fluidity, enabled ihe wcurrent to make fo rapid a progrefs over thefortunate town, as fcarcely to allow its inhabitiufhcient time to efcape with their Jives. Thevineyards belonging to the Torre del Greco,which produced the wine called JLacrima Chthat were buried and totally deftroyed by this 1ccniifted of more than three thouf’and acres;the deftruflion of the vineyards by the torremmud and w;ater, at the foot of the mountain of Sma, was much more extenfive.'In that part of the country, the firft Cgns( n )t that cur author met with, waS near ibe vit-;jf the Madonna ddT Arco, and be paffed fever.al '; between that and the town of Ottai no; oneTrochia, and two near the town* mSo-rnma,he moft confiderable, and not lefs than ar of a mile in breadthi and, according to thecny of eye witneffes, when they poured downrem the mountain oi Somma, they were fromy to thirty feet high; the matter of thefe tor-was a liquid glutinous mud, compofed of fco-afiies. Hones (fome of an enormous fize) mix-ith trees that had been torn up by the roots,torrents, as it may well be imagined, were in-dole, and carr ied off every thing before them;'is, walls, trees, and not lefs than four thou-: lib cep and other cattle. At Somma, a teamjht oxen, which were drawing a large timberjiivere at once carried off, and never were heardire.e appearance of thefe torrents was like thatother torrents in mountainous countries, ex-hat what had been mud was become a perfectat, on which xffcthing lefs than a pickaxe couldany impi effion. The vineyards ant! cultivatedwere here much more ruined; and the limbse trees much more torn by the weight oi thethen thofe which have been already deferib-1 the fea fide of the volcano. A ' •e abbe Tata, in his printed accoupt of thision, has given a good idea of the abundance,reat weight, and glutinous quality of thefe afh-hen he fays, that having taken a branch fremtree hill handing near the town of Somma, on\ere only fix leaves, and two little unripe figs,:avjng weighed it with the allies attached to it,ind it to be thirty-one ounces; when havingjs.Bi ' ^ ‘ ^ ^ ^ vt as.f‘ Ch iniTTVT n I’m—1!^'• m J Iwiifhed pfTthe vokacic matter, itfcnrccly weig“[tnre .■.In ihe town c.f Sorama, onr aur! • r found%RMU '1 ichurches and about fevcncy hollies*'id-.ou roof-!,fnH of afhes. The great damage on that lideiTK'unrain, by the fall of the afhes and the tornhappened on the iSth, tptbth, and cotii of Jand on the i^th of July. The 19th, the alliesfo thick at Somma, that unleis a perfbn kept inj|fiou, he was loon fixed to the ground by tlThis fall of allies was accompaified dlo withreporrr, and frequent fib Ires of the vt Icanic fring, fo that, furvonnded by fo many horrors, itim.j offible for the inhabitants to remain in the rcand they ail fled; the darknefs was fuch, althcujwas raid-day, that even with the help of ton hiwas irarcely pcflible to keep in the high road,t! e i6;h c f July, fignor Guifeppe Sacco went uL;I!the crater, and, according to his account, whichbeen printed at Naples, the crater-is of an irrepC;\'al term, and as he (iq voles (not having ! ecnto n.eaiure it) of about a r ile aijei a l.ait in arcfertile; the inftde, as tnual, in the fl ape of avaried tone, ti e inner walls of which cn tke.cabde are pcrptndintkr; but on the we If cm fidiic crater, wbkii is much lower, the exlccnt was;tii abde, ai d 9^5° with lon e of his < emparionsijUially v.c.m clown ore hundred and feveiuy icx psfrom which.{pot, having lowered a cord with a 1tied to it, they found the whole depth of ti e cto he- about five hum!reel palms. Bur fudi obftie.ns on the erater of Vtfuvius are of little cticpjcnce, as both its form and apparent deplllu'bjecit to gc< m alterations from day to day.Greg. ILcon. 'cj Nature,Vd. 2n*l pfge 331.—33>-~fj* i*.:ilJ-c s