oTHEComical SayingsO FPady from Cork,WITH H 18Coat Button’d Behind.IN THREE PARTS.TO WHICH IS ADDED,Pady’s Humble Petition,andA Creed for* Irish Romish Believers.Entered according to Order %~444444+++4*^44444444-]4-, * • v »' •, 'J j”!: V ’. 'm fll -r,yH *4* ' 3lrLi\+J, UJ^-At J^T 'VTHE» COMICAL SAYINGS:OFPADT FROM CORK.ap. art r^ j 'I-; »*<•>•<• f* 'cfW| / y* .fj |Tom OOQ morrow, Sir, this is a verycold day.Ttsg. Arra, deal* honey, yeflcrnight wasa ver cold morning. ' 1*Tom. Well, brother traveller, of what nation “art thou pTeag A.rra, dear Jhoy, I cams from myown kingdom. trTfeag Why, Sir, I know that; but whereii* tby kingdom ? ‘ ’Teag. A'leiieu, dear honey, don't you knowCork in Ireland pTom. O you fool I Cork is not a kingdom,* but a city.‘Teag’. Then, i dear fhcy, I am fure it is ino a kingdom.T r»i’ Ai^d w! at was the reafon you havesome and left your own dear country ?/< 3 ) ■Teap; Arra. dear honev, by ftiaint Patrick,they have pot fuch comical laws in our country,that theyl! put a man to death in perfe& he=.!th.So, to be free and p'.ain with you neighbour,I was obliged to come away; fur laid not choofeto day among fuch people, that can hang a poorman when they pleafe, if he either deals, robs,or kills a man . ,Tom. Ay, but I take you to be more of anboned mm, than do any of thefe things.Teap. Honefll I am perfciSly honed: When Iwas but a child, my mother wouid have trudedme with a houfe-ful of mdn-dones. ‘Tom. What was the matter, was you guiltycf nothing ? r > •Teag. Arra, dear honey, I did harm to no¬body, but fancied an old gentleman's gun, .andafterwards made it my own.Tom. Wry well, my boy, and did you keepthe pun ?Teap Keep it! I wculd have kept it with•all rr.y heart w hile I lived death itfeif could nothave parted us; butthe old 'ogue, the gentleman,bung Jultice of the Peace himfelf had me tried•fo<- lights of it, and hoyy 1 came by it, andTo tin k u againTom A id how did you dear youifelf v/ith-sout piwifhm^riii • (Teag. Arr , dear (hoy, I told them a parcel' of lies 'hut they wbii d not bel'cve m» ; for I laid,1 goo it rom n y faster, when it was a little piltol,and 1 had k.pt it til! it had grown a gun, and( 4 )was deigned to life it well, until it had grown$ big cannon and then fold it to the military.—*They all fell a-laughing at me, as 1 had beena fool, and bade me go borne to my mother,and clean the potatoes.Tom. And how long is it Cnee you left yourown country'.Teag. Arra, dear honey, I do not mind whe¬ther it be a fortnight or fonr months, but I thinkmyfe'f it is a long time ;-they tell me my mosheris dead fince, but I won't believe it, until I geta letter front her own hand; for Ihe is a verygood fcholar, fuppofe flie can neither read,nor write.Tom. Wat you ever in England before ?Teag. Ay, that I was, and in Scotland too.Tom. And were they kind to you, when youwas in Scotland ?Teag. They were that kind, that they kteketmy arfe for m«; and the reafon was becaufeI would not pay the whole of the liquor that• was drank in the company, though the landlordand his two fom got mouthful>bour of it; theywould have me pay it all, though 1 did not drinkit all; and I told them, it was a trick upon tra¬vellers, firft to drink hi? liquor, and then to kickhim out of doors.T m. 1 really think they ufed you badly;but CQt;ld you not beat them?i c;g That s what 1 did, beat them all totheir own contentment; hut there wai one ofthem ftronger than me, who would have killed( 5 )me, if the other two had not pulled me away iand I had to run for it, till his palfnn was over :Then they made us drink and gree again; we(hook hand*, and made a bargain never to harmoth?r more: But this bargain did not lafl long,for, as 1 was killing his mouth, by fiiaint PatrickI bit his nofe, which caufed him to bsat me veryfore for my pains.Tom. Well, Pady, what calling was youwhen in Scotland?♦ Teag. Why, Sir, I was no bufinefs at allbut—what do you call that green tree, that slike a whin-bulb ?- many people make a thingto fweep the houfe of it-Torn. O yes, Paddy, they call it a broom.Teag Ay, ay, you have it 1 ,Th*n I was—a gentleman's broom, only waited on his horfes,and walked the dilhea for the cock; and whenmy mailer rode a-humir.g, I ran behind himlike the dog*.Tom O yes, Pady, it was a groom you mean;but I fancy you was cook's mate, or kitchen boy,Teag. No, no, it was the broom that bwas;and if I had ftayed there till now, I might havebeen advanced as high as my mailer, for theladies loved me fo well that they laughed at me.Tom. They might admire you for a fool.Teag. Why, fir, do you imagine that I amnot a fool ? No, no : my mailer alked counfelof me in all his matters, and I always gave hima reafon for every thing.—I told him one morn-iug that he went too (bon to the hunting, thatthe Lares were not got out of tLeir beds ; andneither the harking of horns nor the blowing©f dogs cruld make them nfe, it was fuch a coldmorning that night; fo they ran away that wecatcher!, when we did not fee them. Then mytn after told my words to fevers I gentlmen whowere at dinner with him, and they admired mefor want of wifdom, faying, I was certainly a man©fgreatf ndgment, for my head was all of a lump.They w:ve for going a.fifhing along with mytn after and me in the afternoon, but I told themthat it was a very unhappy thing for any man togo a-btinting in the morning and a fiftiing in theafternoon : Yet they would try it, but they hadbetter (laid at home, for it came on a mod ter-rible night of fouth-weft; rain, and even downwind! fo the fifties got all below the water,to keep them dry from the fhower, and we catch’tthem alt, but got none of them, /Tom. And how long did you fseve thatgentleman, Pady?Te^g Arra, dear honey, I was with hinrfix wiekf, and he beat me feven times.Tom . For what did he be<t you, was it foryour madnrfs and fooiifti tricks?Te*g Dear fhoy, it was not, but for beingtoo irquifnive, and going fharply about my bufl-nefs — Firft. .he fent me to the poft-rffice,•to enquire if there was any letters for him iSo when I came there, faid I, Is there any lettershere for ny irnfter to- dav ?—Then *bey alked mewho was my mailer ? Sir, faid I, it is very bad( 7 )manners in you to ifk any gentleman’s name.—At thi>- they l-*ughed, mocking me, anil Uid theycou’.£l give me none, if I would net tell mymailer's name : So i returned to my mailer,and told him the impudence of the feiio'v, howhe would give me no lctters un efs 1 would te‘ihim your name, mailer —My mailer at this fle^in a great p .Oion, and k ckft me down hams,laying. Go_, you rogue, and tell my name direifrly:How can the gentleman give Wter^, when h*knows not who is ■ fkin« for them 1 — Than tOreturned and told my rrufter'* name; io theytold me there was one for him: I looked at it,being but very fmall, and sfked the price of it?They told me it was S:xpence: Sixpence ! faia i;will you take Sixpence for that fmall thing, 'andfelling bigger ones for Twopence! Faith I sntnot fuch a b;g fool; you think to cheat me:Now, this is not a corifctotiable way of dealing ;1‘H acquaint my mailer of it fird So r tarn'e*and told my malte.* as t ey would have Sixpehcefor his letter, and was (ell ng bigger 6si -V fortwopence. He took up my head and broke hiscane with it, calling me a thoiifand fools, faying,the man was more just than to take any thingbut the right for it. But"! was lure there1 wVsnone of the right, buyipg su'd felling fuch'clearpenny-worths. 'So 1 came again for my' d’osrSixpence let’er: And as the fellow was’ flmfl-’ling thro’ a parcel of thein^ fee king for ft again, ’to make the best i f a dear niatkef, I pick’t’i/ptwo; and home 1 torn:; rp my iasuer^ ‘fhif.V: g( 3 )»!J be well p^ejfed with wtiat I had done.'iow, faid }, fr's-ter I think I have put a trickon them fellows, for felling the letters fo dearto vow Whar h*ve you done ! faid he Snid I,I vtf ob’v ^^-ken two other letter.'; here’' onefor you. master, to help your dear penny worth;and I’M fend the other to my mother, to feewhether die be dead or alive; for (he’s alwaysangry when I don’t writs to her I hid notth- word well fpoken, till he got up his ftockand beat me heartily for it, and fent me backts the fellows again with the two. I had veryill will to go. but nobody would buy them of meby the way.Tom it well, Pady, I think you was to blame,and your matter too, for he ought to have taughtyou how to have gone about those affairs, andnot beat you fo.Teag, Arra, dear honey, I had too much witof my own to be reached by him, or any body else.He began to instruct me after that, how I ftouldferve the table, and fuch nasty things as those:One night I took ben a roasted filh in one hand,and a piece of bread in the other; the old gentle-mm was fo faucy he weuld not take it, and toldme, 1 (hould bring him hotfnng without a platebelow it. The fame night, as he was goingto bed, he called for his flippers and a pifh-pot:So I clapt in a plate below the pifli-pot, *ndanother below the flippers, and ben I goes, onein 'very hand : No fooner did I enter the room,than he threw the pilh pot at me, which brokeboth my head and the pifh-poc at one blow -Now, thought I, the devil is in my master alto¬gether, for what he commands at one time, hecountermands at'anothcr. Ntxt day I wentwith him to the market, to buy a fatk of Potatoes;I went to the Potatoe-monger, and -asked whathe took for the full of a Scotch cog h« weighedthem in ? He atked no less than fourpence:Fourpence! faid 1; if I were butxin Dublin,I could get the full of that for nothing, and inCork and Kinsale far cheaper; them is but fmallthings Lke pease, faid 1, but the Potatoes in mycountry, are as big as your head!—fine meat,all made up in b essed mouthful*. The Potatoemerchant called me a liar, and my master calledme a fool; fo the one fell a-kicking me, and theother a-cuffiog me; I was in fuch bad bread be-tween thtm, that I called myself both a liar anda fool to get off alive.Tom. And how did you carry your Potatoeshome from the market?Teag. Arra, dear (hoy, I carried the horseand them both, beiides a big lo^f aiid two bottlesof wine; for I put the horse on my back, anddrove the Potatoes before me; and when I tiedthe lead to the loaf, I had nothing ado but carrythe bottles in my hand : But bad luck to the way,as l came home, for a nail out of the heel of myfoot fprung a leak in my brog, which prickedthe very bone, bruised the (kin, and made mybrog itself to blocd ; and I having no hammerby me, but a hatchet l left at home, I had to( 10 )belt down the mil with the bottom of the bott'e;arid by the hook, dear (h. V, i: broke to pieces,juid fcattered the w:ne in my mouth.Tom. And how did you recompence yourmaster for the loss of his bottle of wine.Teag.' Arra, dear /hoy, 1 had a mind to cheathim and myself too; for I took the bottle awayto a blacksmith, and desired him to mend it,tWt 1 might go to the butchets and get it fullcf bloody water ; bit he told me he couid notv,oik in any thing but fteel ani iron. Arra,laid I, if I were ip my own kingdom, I could geti blacksmith who could make a bottle out ofa /lohe, and a Rone out of nothing.Tom. And hew did you trick yoar mesterout of it ?Teag. Why, the o’d rogue begsn to chide me,asking me what way 1 broke it/ Then i held upthe other as high as my he'rd, and lit it fall tothe ground on a Rone, whith broke it all to piecesItkewife. Now, faid I, master, that’s the way:And then he beat me very heartily, until l hadto Ihcut rftercy imd niurdtr all at once.Tom. Why did you Rot leave him when heused you fa badly ?' Teag. Arra, d“ar (liny, T ebu’d never thinkto leave him white I fould eatj he gave me fomany good vidlualsj and promise d to prefer meto his own bone picker; bit, by fhainr Patrick,I had to run away with thy life dr a’! wa^ done,else 1 had lost tny dear fftoul'a'nd bdd;f too by ;'.inj;anil thtfn t came home rAuith poorer thjn l went( 11 )away. — The great big bi'ch dog, that was mymaster’s best beloved, put his head into a pitcher,to like out tame milk; and when it was in, hacould not get it out: And I, to fave the pitcher,get the hatchet, and cut oft' the dog’s head; andthen 1 had to break the pitchtr before I got outthe head By this, I lost both the dog and thepitcher. My master hearing of this, I'wo.re hewould cut the head off me; for the poor dogwas made useless, and could not fee to followany body for want of his eyes! And when Iheard of this, i ran away with niy owiv head;for if ! had wanted it, 1, had lost my eyes tot>then I would not have feen the road to Port-Patrick, through Glen-nap; but, by ftvtint Patrick,1 came home alive in fpite of them all.To®; O rarefy dene Pady, you behaved likea man. — But m ha: is die rcafen that you fyilhpeople Ttfear always by flwnt Patrick? — Whatis he, this fiiaint Patrick ?Teag. A$ra, dear houty, he w^s tae best Burntin the world, the Father of all good people in thekingdom; he has a great kindiieisfor an Iiilhman,when he hearvs him calling oh his name. — He wasthe firft that fb.v’d the potatoes in. Ireland ; forhe knew it wes a bit of good fat grouml, it beinga gentleman’s garden before Noah’s flood.Tom. But dear, Pacly, is fbaint Patrick yet.alive, that he hears the Irifti people when theyfpeak cf his name ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I don’t know whe¬ther he be dead or alive, but It is a long tius( 11 )fince they*kiirj him: The people turned allHeathens, but he would not change his religion;and was gO’Kg to run the country with it, andfor taking the gospel away to England ; fo thebarbarous Tories of Dublin cut off hi* head —And what do you think he did, when his 'headwas off?Tom. What could a dead man do, you fool ?Teag. Dead ! faith he was not fuch a big foolas to die yet; he fwim'd over to England afterthis, and brought his head along with him.Tom. And how did he carry his head, andfwim too ? *Teag. Arra, dear honey,Tie carried his headin his teeth.Tom. No, Pady, it won’t hold ; I must havea cautioner for that iTeag. If you won’t believe me, I’ll fwear itover again.PART II.To«. And how did you get fafe out of Scotlandat last iTeag. By the law, dear honey, when I cameto Port-Patrick, and faw my own kingdom,1 thought I was fafe at home; but I was cleandead, and almost drowned, before I eou'd getriding over the water ; for 1, with nine or tenpassengers more, leapt into a little young boat,( i3 )• . V ’ 0having but four men dwelling in a little houfc,In the one end of it, which was all thacked withdeals: and after they had pulled up her teather*ftick, and laid her long halter over her mane,--'they pulled up a long big Ihect, like three pairof blankets, to the riggen of the house; andthe A'ind blew in that, which made her gallopup one hill and down another, till I thought ihewould have run to the world’s end, if fome partof the world had not catched her by the foot.Tom. 1 fancy, Pady, you was by thia timevery lick?Teag. Sick! ay, lick beyond all ficknefs;clean dead as a door-nail: for as 1 had lost thekey of my back-fid«, I beck’d up the very bottomof my belly; and 1 thought that liver and lungs,and all that I had, Ihould have gone together !—Then I called to the fellow that held by her tailbehind, to pull down his iheet, and hold her head,till I got leifure to die, and then fay my prayers.Tom. Well then, Pady, and got you fafeashore at last iTeag. Ay, we came ashore very fast; but,by fliaint Patrick, I (hall never venture my dearfhoul and body in fuch a young boat again, whilethe wind blows o’iit of Scots Galloway.Tom. Well, Pady, and where did you go,when you came to Ireland again ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, and where did I go,but to my own dear coufm, who was now becomeVery rich, by the death of the old buck his father,who died but a few weeks before I went over;( >4 ) 'and the pirish had to bury him out of pity, it didnot cost him a farthingToni. ’\nd wha rtertairimfenfor good ufagedid you get there Pady ?Veag. O, my dear (hoy, I was kindfy usedas mother gentleman ; for i told him I had madefomethingof it by my cravrls, as well as himfelf;buL.hn.d got no money therefore, 1 had to workfor my vufluals while I thud with himTom. Ho! poor Pady, I fuppose you wouldnot flay long there ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I could have flaidhere long enough; but when a man is porr, hisfriends think little of him. — I told him I wasgoing to fee my brother Harry—Harry! faid he;Harry is dead !—Dead! faid I;—and who killedhim? — Why, laid he, Death. — Alielieu! de^rhoney, and where did he kill him? (aid I —In his bed, faid he. O what for a cowardlyaction was that, faid I, to kill a man in his bed ?And what is this fellow death? faid l. — Whatis he ! faid he, He is one that kilis more thanthe head butcher in all Cork does, — Arra, dearhoney, faid I, if he had been on Newry moun¬tains with his brogs on, and bis broad fword byhis fide, all the Deaths in Ireland had not killedhim.—O that impudent fellow Death f if ht hadlet him alone till he had died for want of buttermilk and potatoes, 1 am fare he wou d have livedall the Hays of his life.Tern. In all your travels, Pady, when abioad,did you never lee none of your countrymen,( *5 )to inform you of what happened at home con¬cerning y; ur relarionS ?Teag. Area, dear flioy,.! faw none but TomJeck one day on the ftreet; but when I came upto him, it was not he, but ont just like him.Tom. On what account, P-dy, did you goa-tra veiling ?Teag. Why, a decruiting Serjeant inlisted meto be a Captain; and after all, advanced me nohigher than a foldier itself, but only called mehis deer countryman-recruit; fori did not knowwhat the regiment was when I faw them!—1 thought they were all gentlemen’s fons, andCollcgeoners, when I faw a box like a Bible ontheir bellies; until I faw G for King George,upon it, and R for Long life to him. -—Ho, ho,laid 1, I lhan’t be long here.Tom. O then, Pady, you deserted from them.Teag. Ay, that’s what I did; and run to themountains like a w'dd buck: And ever fince,when I fee any Soldiers, I blose my eyes, lestthey fliould look at ms, and know me.Tom. And what exploits did you do, whenyou was a Soldier ?Teag An a, dear, honey. I kill’d a man.Tom And how did ycu do that ?Tcag Arnt, dear honey, when he dropt hisfword, I . rew mine -and advanced boldly to him,and then entree! eff bis fo.>t.I’om O ’hen .ehat a bi,f fool was you I forym ought first to have cut effhis head..( *6 )Te*g. Arra, dear flioy, his* bead was cut offbefore I engag’d him, else 1 hsd not done it.Tom. O then, Pady, you afted like a food;but you are not fuc a big fool as many take youto be, you might pais for a philosopher.Teag. Afulusifair! my father wisafulusifair;besides, he was a man under great authorityby law, he condemn’d the juit, and clear’d theguilty. — Do yo know how they call a horse’smother - i'em. Why, they call her a mare.Teag- A mare, ay, very well mindc^, bylhaint Patrick my father was a mare in Cork.Tom. And what riches was left you, by thedeath of your mother ?Teag. A bad luck to her old barren belly,for (he liv’d in great plenty, and dy’d in greatpoverty; (he devoured up all or (he died, buttwo hens and a pockful of potatoes; a poor estatefor sn Irish gentkman, in faith.Tom. And what did you make of your hensSind potatoes i Did you fow them ?Teag. Arra, dear (hoy, I fowed them in mybelly, and ibid the hens to a cadger.Tom. And what business did your motherfollow after.T^sg. Greatly in, the merchant way.Tom. And what fort of goods did (lie deal in?Teag. Dear honey, (he went through thecountry, and fold final! fishes, onions and apples:bought hens and eggs, and then hatched them-herself. — I remember of one long necked cock(he had, of an ever-fea brood, that ftood on theC 1? )midden, and picked all the ftars out of the north¬west ! fo they were never fo thick there fince.Tom. Mow, Pady, that’s a bull furpa'ses all lBut is there none of that cock’s offspring alivein Ireland now ?Teag. Arra dear fhoy, I don’t think thatthere are • but it is a pity, but there had. forthey would fly with people above the f«a, whichwould put the use of fliips out of fashion, andthen there would be nobody drown’d at fea at all.Tom Very well, Pady; but in all your trav*ls,did you never get a wife ?Teag. Ay, that’s what I did, and a wickedwife tooTom. And what is become of her now ? aTeag. Dear fhoy, I can’t tell whether fhe isgone to Purgatory, or the parifh of Pigtrantrum;for fhe told me (he would certainly di« the firft•pportunity (he could get, as this prefenc evilworld was not worth the waiting on, fo (hewould go and fee what good things is in theworld to come; and fo, when that old rovercalled the Fever, came raging like a madmanover the whole kingdom, knocking the peopleon the head with deadly blows, die went awayand died our of fpite, leaving me with nothingbut two motheiless children.Tom. O but, Pady, you ought to have goneto a do&or, and got fome pills and phy fic for her.Teag. By (haint Patrick I had as good a p'Ucf my own, as any doftor in the kiudora could( IS )give herj and as for fuetshing, fhe could neveru^e foufFh 'r tobscco in herself.Toin. O you fool, that is not what I mean,;you ought to have brought the du&cr to feel,her pulse, and let her blood, if needful.Teag. Yes, yes that’s what I did; for I ranto the doctor whenever fhe died, and foughtfofnsthiftg for a dead or dying woman s d heold fooiish devil was at his dinner, and b*ganto ask me foms dirty questions.Tom And what did he ask, Pady ?Teag. Why, he ask’d niet How did my wifego to (fool ? To which I answered. The famev/ay that ether women go to chair No, fa>+ he,that’s not what I tno*n : How doe? ihe purge ?Arra, Mr D dor, laid I, all the fi e in Purgatorywon’', purge her clean ; for fhe has both a coldand a fttnking breath —Sir, faid he, that is notwhat I ask you : Whether does (lie fh—t. thickor thin ? Arra, master Doftnr, fafd 1, it is fome-limes fj thick and hard that you m»y take it inyour hand, and eat it like a piece of cheese orpudding ; and at other times you may drink ir,or fup it with a fpoon. — At this he flew ina most terrible rage, and kicked me down ftairs;and would give me nothing to her, but called mea dirty fcoundra!, for fpe^ip.g fo before ladies.Tom Was you firry when yotir wife d:ecl > '•■ Teag. Arra. dear (hoy. if any body had beatme, I was fit to cry myself.Tom. And in what manner d:d you buryyour wife, when (he died i( 19 )T«*g O, my dear (hoy, fhe was buried in allmanrer of pomp, pride, and fpler.dour^ She hada fioe tofiio, with cords in it; aud within thec^ffi along with hcrscif, (he got a pair of newbrogs, a penny candle, a good hard 1 eadcd oldhammer, with an Irish fixpenny piece, to payher passage at the gate; and what more could(he look for, tho’ fhe had been a noble iady iTom. I really think you gave Iter plenty alongwith, her; but you ought to have cried for her,if it was no moie than to be in the fashion.Teag. And v.iiy mould I cry without forrow,when we hired two criers to ciy all the waybrfere her. to keep in the fashion.l oin. And what do they cry before a d<adwoman in your country, Pady !Teag Wf.y, they cry the common cry, orfuneral lament, that is used in Ireland.Tom And what manner of cry is that, Pndy ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, if you don’t know,I will tell you.— When any dies, there is feveratcriers goes before the corpse, faying. LofF, fuff,fou, allelieu! dear honey, what ailed thee to die ?It w’as not for want of meal, nor mali, bread norcheese, good bu'ter-nulk. nor potatoes.♦xxxxxxxxxxxxsx—r-{—KxxxsXxxxxxxx*» i ■PART III.Tom. V/e’.l, Pady. and what di4 you dawhen yoUr wife died,?.1 eag Dear honey, what would I do! Doyou think I was inch a big fool as to die too?I am fore if I had. 1 fliou!d not have-got fair play,w hen I am hot fo o d yet as my father waswhen he died; he liv’d very liing indeed.Tom. No. Pacfy, it is not that I mean; wasyou forry, or did you weep for her ?Teag Weep for her 1 by (haint Patrick IWould not weep nor yet be forty fuppose myown mother and all the women in Ireland haddied feven years before I was born.Tom What did you do with your children,Pady. when ihe died ?Teag. Do you imagine I was fuch a big foolas bury my children alive, along with a deadwomao? Arra, dear honey, we always commonlygive nothing along Mith a dead person, but anold fliirr a winding flieet, a big hammer, witha long candle, and an Irrh filver 3 penny piece.Tom. Dear, Pady, and what use do they makeof all them things after they are dead ?Teag. Then, Tom, fince you are fo inquifitive,you must go and ask the pried about it ?Tom. What did you make of your children,then, Paddy, when your wife died ?Teag And what fhould I make of them ? Dayou imagide I fhould give them to the butchers,as they had been a parcel of young hogs! Bylhaint Patrick, I had more unnaturality in me,than put them into an hospital, as many do.Tom No, I fuppose you would leave thembehind you, with your friends in Cork.Teag. Ay, ay, a poor man*s friends is feme-times worse than a profeft enemy: The bestfriend I ever had in the world, was my ownpocket, when my money lasted : But I left mytwo babies between the priest's door and theparish chucch, because I thought it was a placeof mercy, and then fet out for England, in questof another wife with a large fortune.Tom. And did you not take good night withyour friends, Pady, ere you came away ;( tl )Tcag.* Arra, dear honey, I had no friends inthe world, but an Irish half-crown ; and 1 wouldhave been very forry to parted with fuch a dearpacket companion at fuch a time.Tom. 1 fancy, Pad/, you’ve corn’d off withwhat they call a moon-fhine flitting.Teag. You lie 1 ke a thief now, for I did notfee fun, moon, nor (tars, all the night then; forI fet out from Cork at the dawn of night, and Ihad travelled twenty miles all but twelve, befoiegloaming in the morning.Tom And where took you fhipping, Pady ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I came to a countryvillage called Dublin, aa big a city as any markettown in ail England, where 1 got myself onboardof a little young boat, with a parcel of fellows,and a long leather bag, I fuppoaed them to betinker., until I asked, what they carried in thatleather fack ? They told me it was the Englishmail they were going over with. Then faid I,is the milns fo fcant in England, that they mustfend over their corn to Ireland to grind it•The comtpal cunning fellows perfuaded me thatit was fo.—Then 1 went down into a little hqpsebelow the water, hard by the rigg-back of theboat, and laid me oown on their leadirr fack,where 1 llept myfelf almost to death with hunger.And. dear- koney to tell you plainly, when Iawak’d I did not know w here I was, but thought) was de.d and buried, for 1 found nothing allaround im but wo< den walls, ?nd timber above.Tom. A d hqw did you come to yourself,to know where you was at last ?Teag. By the !*w de*r fhoy, 1 feratched myhead in a hundred p ns, and then let me down,to think upon it: — S< 1 minded that it was asywife that wa$ dead, and not ne; and that 1 was( 2 3 )sw*-tut*,} fMn ^ i'f® if 4 • i-fe*. «. >PADVi HUMBLE PEriTION,OR,L SUPPLICATION. :Good Christian people behold me! j manwho has corn’d thro’ a world of wonders, a hellfull of hardship?, dangers by tea, and dangers byland, and yet I am alixe, you may fee my handcrooked like a fowl’s foot, and that is no wonderat all, considering, my fufferings and farrows—Oh! oh! oh! good people, 1 was a man in mvtime, who had plenty of the gold, plenty of thefilver, plenty of the clothes, plenty of the butter,the beer, the beef and bifketV— And now, nowI haxe nothing; being taken by the Turks, andrelieved by the Spaniards; by fixty fix day’s^ at the fiege of Gibraltar, and got no'hing to eatbut fea-wreck and raw mussels ! then put to feafor our fafety; cast upon the Barbarian coast,among the woeful wicked Algerines, where wewere taken, apd tied with ’ tugs and udders,borse-locks and cow-chains, then cut and castrate,yard and testicle*, quit away. — If you will notbelieve,,jput in yeur hand and feel how evstyfemale’s made fmooth by the iheei-boric, wherenothing.is to be feen bur what is patural; ch£rjmade our esc pe to tne desart wild wildernessof Arabia, wh re we lived anforgtt the ^ Idasses, upon wind, fard, and faplest ling —After¬wards put to fea in the hull of an i Id h »use,where we was iossed aboVe and below the V. uds,being driven thro’ thickets and groves by fi./ce,course, calm and contrary Wi, ds! — aft last, Wascast away upon Salisbury p'aihs; where our vessel( 21 )alive in the young post boar, with the fellowsthat carries over the English mSil from the Irishmilns, to feed the English people with.Tom. O then, Pady, I am fure you was gladwhen you found yourfelf alive.Tesg. Arra, dear fhoy, I was very fure I waaslive,but I did not thirk to live long ; fo I thoughtit was better for me to fteal and be hang’d, thanto live all my day*, and die dire^fy with hungeror a lingering or fudden death at the lastTom. What, had you ho meat nor moneyalong with you in the Packet-boat?J'eagj Area, dear (hoy.‘4I gave all rfiy moneyto the Captain of the home, or goochnan of thefh'p, to cart y me into the fea, or over to England;anil wb^fa'l was like to eaj my old brogues forwant of victu Is 1 diew my hanger and cut thelock iff thetr leather fa k thinking to get a lickof their hieal; bm alltl eu, dear /hoy, I foundnothing, meal nor feeds, but » parcel of papersand letters-a poor tnorfel for a hungry man !Tom, O then, P»dy, you la d down yourhunpfiy,'an!i get nothing for It ?1 ‘ag.. Ayv y, J was aj great thief, but gotnet; mg in the Urge leather bag to fleal or eatT■ 'l orn, ‘And hoW came you by viifluals at !afl ?Teag Aileljcu, dear honey, the thoughts ofme*t anti drink, death and life,, and ev,ery thingelfe wa out of my head, blit ohe thought.Tom And what was that hhoughf, Pady ?Teag That t was vQgo doiyn ameng the filhes,and become a wha'e ; uten I would have livedah ca y 4tfe ail days, Having nothing to dobuf o': ink fait w-ter, and eat eshtr oysters.Tpip. What, Pady. wasycufikt tobe'drown’d ?TKag. Ay, ay srowRrS, as cfea’hly tfhbNyn’ti asafifh; me fea blew luud* and the, wind ran high.( M )was dashed to p«ce* against a cabbage flock! And now my humble petition to you, good"Christian people, rs, for one hundred of yourbeef, one hundred of your butter, another ofyour cheese, a calk of your bilkst, a tnn of yourbeer, a keg of your rum, with a pipe of your wine,a lump of your gold, a piece of your filver, a fewof you halfpence or farthings, a waught of yourbutter milk, a pair of your old breeches, ftockingsor (hoes, even a chaw of tobacco, for charity’*fake. v—A. * * •-*-* * • • *PADY’* CREED,FOR IRISH ROMISH BELIEVERS./Believe the Pope of Rome to be right heirand true fuccessor of Peter the Apostle:And that he has a power above the .Kings ofthe world, being fpirkua] and temporal; endowedwith a communication from beyond* #. e. or, the grave, and can bring up anya devil in departed Ihoul * he pleases, evenits Head, as the wi(ch of Endor brought upSamuel to Saul; by the fame powerhe can, assisted by the iuch<ntments of oldManasseh, a King in Israel—I believe also inthe Romish Priests, that they are very civil,chaste gentlemen ; keep no wives of their own,but partake a little of other then’s, when infecret confession. — 1 acknowledge the worship¬ping of Images, and re.icks of Shaints departed,to be very just; but if they hear, and not help US)O they are but a pareq^of ungrateful wretches.FINIS.