©hiaip if®® aaaaDREAMS AND APPARITIONS.CONTAININGTIBBY HYSLOPSDREAM AND THE SEQUEL.PART SECOND.NEWTON-STEWART:Published and sold Wholesale and Retail, byP M‘Nairw.TIBBY HYSLOP’S DHEAJf.Pan Second.Tibby HySlop dreamed, that on a certainspot M'hich sho^had never seen before, l>e'tween a stone-dyke and the verge of awoody precipice;'a little, serpidstered, inae- 'cessible corner, of a triangular shape,-r-or,as she called it to the minister, “ a .three |neukit cioak o’ the linn,” she saw Mr For-ret lying without his hat, with his throatslightly wounded, and blood running fromit; but he neither appeared to be dead,nor yet dying, but in excellent spirits. Hewas clothed in a fine new black suit, hadfull boots on, which appeared likewise tobe new, and yellow Spurs gilt. A greatnumber of rooks and hooded crows weremaking free with his person ;—some pick¬ing out his eyes, some his tongue, and sometearing out his bowels. But in place ofbeing distressed by their1 verocity, he ap¬peared much delighted, encouraging themon all he could,, and there was a perfectlygood understanding between the parties.In the midst of this horrible feast, downcame a majestic raven from a dark cloud-close above this scene,, and, driving awayall the meaner birds, fell a feasting himself £—opened the breast of his victim, ycliowas still alive, and enoonragipg him on,;and aftei’preying on his vitals for sometime, at last picked out his heart, and de¬voured it; and then the mangled wretch,after writhing for a slant time in eonvlil-sive agonies, groarfed his last.This was precisely Tibby’s dream as itwas told to me, first by my friend Mr Cun¬ningham of Dalswinton, and afterwards bythe clergyman to whom she herself relatedit next day. But there was something in itnot so distinctly defined, for though thebirds which she saw devouring her master*were rooks, blood-crows and a raven, stilleach individual of the number had a like¬ness by itself, distinguishing it from all therest; a certain character as it were, tosupport; and these particular likenesseswere so engraven on the dreamer’s mind,that she never forgot them, and she couldnot help looking for them both among“ birds and bodies,” as she expressed it,but never could distinguish any of them a-gain, and the dream, like many other dis¬tempered visions, was forgotten, or onlyremembered now and then with a certain,tremor of antecedent knowledge.4Days and seasons passed over, and withthem the changes incident to humanity.The virtuous and indefatigable TibbyHyslop was assisted by the benevolent,who had heard of her exertions and patient-sufferings ; and the venerable DouglasHervey had gone in peace to the house ap¬pointed for all living, when one evening inJune, John Jardine, the cooper, chanced tocome to Knowe-back, in the course ofhis girding and hooping peregrinations.John was a living and walking chronicle ofthe events of the day, all the way from thehead of Glen-breck to the bridge of Stoney-lee. He knew every man, and every man’saffairs—every woman, and every woman’sfailings; and his information was not likethat of many others, for it was generallyto be depended on. How he got his infor-Ittation so correctly, was a mystery to many,but whatever John the cooper told as a fact,was never disputed, and any woman, atleast, might have ventured to tell it overagain.“ These are hard times for poor folks,Tibby. How are you and auld grannycoming on?’*‘‘ Joost fighting pn as we hae done thismony a year. Slip’s ay contentit, poorbody, an’ thankfu’, whether I hae little togie her or muokle. This life’s naethingbut a fight, Johnie, frae beginning toend.”“ It’s a’ true ye say, Tibby,” said the co¬oper, interrupting her, for he was afraidshe was going to begin on religion, a speciesof conversation that did not accord withJohn’s talents or dispositions, It’s a’ trueye say, Tibby ; but your master will soonbe sic a rich man now, that we’ll a’ be madeup, and you amang the lave will be madea lady.”“ If he get his riches honestly, n’ theblessing o’ the almighty wi’ them, John, Ishall rejoice in his prosperity, but neitherme nor ony ither poor body will ever bemuckle the better o’ them* What way is hegaun to get sick an great riches ? If a’ betrue that I hear, he is gaun to the wranegpart to seek them ? ”“ Aha, lass, that’s a’ that ye ken about it.Did ye no hear that he had won the law-plea on his laird, whilk has been aforethe Lords for mail* than seven years ? An’did ye no hear he had won ten pleas aforethe courts o’ Dumfivs, a’ rising out o’ ane6anitlier,]ikc a&li girderin^s out o’ ae root?and that ho’s to get, on the hale, aboutt'.renfy thousand ‘prfnds worth o’ dam-ages ? ” 4That’s anuneo sight o’ siller. John Howmuckle is that ? ”“ Aha, lassi ye fixed'me noAT ; but they |say it will corns'to as mitelde goad as sixmen can cany on their harks. And Ave’rea to get;twenties,1 and thirties and fortieso’ punds for bribes, to gar us gie faifhfti’and true evidences at the great coneiudingtrial afore the Lords ; and yon are to- bebribit amang the rest, to^ gar ye tell thehale truth, and nothing but the truth.”“ There needs nae waste o’ shier to garme do that.- But, Johnie, I- Avad like token whether that mode o’ taking oaths,,solemn and sacred oaths, about the miser¬able trash o’ this warld, be according tothe tenor o’ gospel revelation, and thethird, o’ the commands ? ”“ Aba, lass, ye hae fixed me noAv! That’srather a kittle point, but I believe it’s a’true that, ye*say, TIoAVever, ye’ll get the .offer o’ a great bribe afore band: for if atoBpjVen to your master’s promises, youwill never finger a bodle after the job’s.Tdone.”“ I’m bnl a poor simple body, Jol n>,an’ canna manage ony sickan things. But*I shall need nae fee to tell the truth, an’I winna fell an untruth for a’ my master’sestate, an’ his six baekfus’ o’ goud into thebargain. li the sin o’ the soul Johnic——“ Ay, ay, tliat’s very true, Tibby ! verytrue, indeed, about tlie sin' o’ the soul!But as ye were saying ahont being-a simplebody—What wad ye think if I were to castup that day G[edging Gibby came here togie you your lesson—I could maybe helpyou on a wee hit—What wad ye gic me if1 did ? ”“ Alack, T has naething to gie you butmy blessing, but I shall pray for the bles¬sing o’ God on ye,”“ Ay, ay, as ye say. I daresay theremight be warn- things. But could ye thinko’ naething to gie a body wba likes as weelto be paid aiT hand as to gie credit ? That’sthe very thing I’m cautioning you a-gainst.” -“ I dinna expect ony siller frae thatfomifain-head, Johnie: It’s a dry ane tothe puiv and needy, and an uccosma’ mat-Wf wad gar me make over my riglits to. a8pose that Ihae neither faith nor hope in.But ye’re kend for an atild farfent man ; ifye can bring a little honestly this way, Ishall gie you the half o’t; for weel I kenit will never come this way by ony art orshift o’ mine.”Ay, ay, that’s spoken like a sensiblearid reasonable woman, Tibhy Hyslop, asye are and hae always been. But thinkyou, could there he nae way contrived”—and here the cooper gave two winks withhis left eye—“ by the whilk ye could gieme it a’, and yet no rob yoursel o’ afarthing ? ”“ Na, na, Johnie Jardine, that’s cleanaboon my comprehension; But ye’re acunning draughty man,and I leave the halematter to your guidance.”“Veryweek Tibby, very weel. I’ll tryto ca’ a gayan substantial gird round yoursucces, if I can hit the width o’ the chance,and the girth o’ the gear. Gude day toyou the day, an think about the plan o’equal-aqual that I spak o’.”Old maids are in general very easily court¬ed, and very apt to take a hint. I haveindeed known a great many instances inwhich they took hints very seriously, before9ever they were given. Not so with TibbyHyslop. There had such a heavy chargelain upon her the greater part of her life,that she had never turned her thoughts toany earthly thing beside, and she knew nomore what the cooper was aiming at, thanif the words had not been spoken. Whenhe went away, her grandmother called herto the bed-side, and asked if the cooperwas gone away. Tibby answered in theaffirmative ; on which granny said, “ Whathas he been havering about sae king theday? 1 thought I heard him courtingye.”“ Courting me ! Dear granny, he wascourting nane o’ me ; he was telling mehow Mr Forret had won as muckle silleras sax men can carry on their backs,and how we are a’ to get a part of it.”“ Dinna believe him, hinny ; the manthat can win siller at the law, will lose itnaewhere. But Tibby, I heard the coopercourting you, and I thought I heard yougie him your consent to manage the mat¬ter as he likit. Now you hae been a greatblessing to me. I thought you were sent tome in wrath,, as a punishment of my sin*,but I have found that you were indeed sent10to me in love and in kindness. You havebeen the sole support of my old age, andof hers wha is now in the grave, and it isnatural that I should like to see you put upafore I leave you. But Tikhy Ilyslop, JohnJardine is not the man to lead a Christianlife with. He has nae mair religion thanthe beasts that perish—he is frighted for it,and shuns it as a hody would do a loath¬some or poisonous draught: And besidesit is weel kend how sair he neglected hisfirst wife. Hae naething to do v. i’ him mydear bairn, hut rather live as you are.—There is neither sin nor shame in beingunwedded, but there may he haith in join¬ing yourself to an unbeliever.”Tibby wondered at this information..She did not know how she had been eourt-ed, and she found that she rather thoughtthe better of the cooper Ibr what it appear¬ed he had done. Auerdh.gly, she n ideno promises,to her grandmother, hut onlyremarked, that “ it was a pity no to giethe cooper a chance o’ conversion, honestmail.”The cooper kept watch about Di um-lochie and the. hinds’ houses, and easilyfound cut ail the sly Gibby’s movements.il-toil even the exact vemuncralion he coulShe urg:od to give to such a« were pleaded to! re;nember aright. liHlee.d it was believedfiat the most part of the binds and lalioui';ing people remembered nothing of the mat¬ter farther than he was pleased to iHiojiythem, and that in fact they gave evidenceto the best of their knowledge or remem¬brance, although that evidence might beI decidedly wrong.One day Gibby took his gunman:! wenti out towards Kuovve-baek. Tiie copper alsoguessing what was in his head, went, thitheri by a circuitous rout, so as to come in as twere by chance ; but ere he arrived, Mr|j| Forret bad begun liis queries and instruct-I ions to Tibby.—The two could not agrge1 by any means ; Tibby either could not le-I collect the yearly crops on each field onthe- fukii of lihitmlocbie, or recollected■u rong-—But at length, in comes the copper,when the calculations were at the keenest,i .and at every'.turn be took MV Fovret’s sidewith the most strenuous asseverations, a-diusing Ti-bby for her stupidity and want! <of recollection.“ Hear mb speak, iTohnie Jardine, aforeye condemn me affluof: Mr Foit e_say€12that the crooked holm was peas in the 96and corn in the 97 » I say it was corn baiththe years. How do ye say about that ? ”“ Mr Forret’s right—perfectly right. Itgrew pease in the 96, and aits, good Angusaits, in the 97* Poor gouk ! dinna ye thinkthat he has a’ these things merkit down inblack an’white, and what good could itdo tohim to mislead you? Depend on’t he’sright there.”“ Could ye tak your oath on that, JohnieJardine ? ”“ Ay, this meenint,—sax times repeated,if it were necessary.”“ Then I yield—I am but a poor sillywoman an liable to mony errors and short¬comings—my recollection is playing at hide-an’-seek wi me—I maun be wrang, andI yield that it is sae. But I’m sure, John,you cannot but remember this sae short awhile syne, for ye shore wi’ us that har’st.Was the langfieldniest Robbie Johnston’sfarm growing corn in the dear year, or no ?I say it was.”‘ It was the next year, Tibby, my wo¬man,” said Mr Forret; “you are confound¬ing one year with another again ; and I seewhat is the reason. It was oats in 99,13►grass in 1800, and oats again in 1801; nowyou never remember any of the intermedi-1 ate years, but only those that you shore onthese fields, I cannot be mistaken in a ruleI never break.”The cooper had now got his cue. Heperceived that the plea ultimately depend¬ed on proof relating to the proper croppingof the land throughout the lease ; and he! supported the farmer so strenuously, thatTibby, in her simplicity, fairly yielded, al¬though hardly convinced ; but the cooperassured the farmer that he would put her|j| all to rights, provided she recieved a hand-1 some acknowledgement, for there was notI the least doubt that Mr Forret was righti in every particular.This speech of the cooper’s gratified thet farmer exceedingly, as his whole fortunei now depended upon the evidene to be elicit|! ed in the court at Dumfries, on a day thatI was fast approaching, and he was willingto give anything to secure the evidence onhis side •, so he made a long set speechto Tibby, telling her how necessary it wasthat she should adhere strictly to the truth—that, as it would be an awful thing tomake oath to that which was false, he hadmerely paid lier tliat visit to instruct her ra~uiembrauce a little in that which was thetruth, it bciito impO.ss-ible, on account of hisjottings, that he could be mistaken; and fi¬nally it was settled,for thus telling the tn ilgand nothing hat the truth, Tibby Hyslop,a most deserving woman, was to receive apresent ot‘ L.15, as wages, for time hyegone.This was all managed in a very sly way bythe copper, who assured Forrct that allshould go fight, as far as related to TihbyHyslop and himself, which chited the far¬mer exceedingly; for the spirit of litigationhad of late possessed him to such a degree,and he had ventured such a stake on thisissue, that if he had been master of the■realiff, he would have parted with the halfof it ao beat his opponents.The day of the , trial arrived, and council..attendexffrom 'Edinburgh For both parties,go taka full evidence before the two Circuit,Lords and Sheriff. The evidence was-said■to have been unsatisfactory to fife judges,but upon the wlidle iriTvlr Forret’s favour, the:ct> >par’s was decidedly so, and the fanner’s,counsel werecrowingand hustling iiomoder-4feiy, when at length Tibdy liyslop wascalled to the witness box. At the first sightof her masfef’s couhcil, and the Dumfries•Avriiers and notaries that were hanging .a-I15io'ut him, Tibby was struck chimb with a»iiiazement, and almost bereaved of sense,he at once recognised tliemv -all andWerally, as the birds that she saw, in lic-rream, devouring her master, and pickingSe flesh from his bones while the greatwyer from Edinburgh waSjin feature, eyeid beak, the identical raven which at lastwoured his vitals and heart.Tliis singular confidence brought retni-iscencies of such a nature over her spirit,I at, on the first questions being put, shemid not answer a word. She knew fromlenceforward that her master was a ruin-i man, and her heart failed, on thinkingi her kind mistress and his family. Theruncil then went, an/1 whis|ici'iivg iMr For-[, inquired what sort of a woman she was,cl if her evidence was likely iwbc of anyiiail. As tlie cooper had behaved so \\reii,d had-likewise answered for Ihiiby, theinner was iutent on not loosing her evi-lince, and answewed his council that sheIts a wo'ribv honest woman, who wouldd swear to a lie for the Icing’s dominions,d that he must not lose her evidence.'I'is inteliigence the lawyer'umvounced-16i bench with great consequence andinposity, and the witness was. allowed- a16little time to reecover her spirits.Isabella Hyslop, spinster, was again cal¬led, answered to her name, and took the oathdistinctly, and without hesitation, until theoffisical qnerist came to the usual ques¬tion, “ Now, has no one instructed youwhat to say, or what you are to answer?”When Tibby replied, with a steady counte*nance, “ Nobody except my master! ” Thecouncil and client stared at one another,while the Court could hardly maintaiultheir gravity of deportment. The queristwent on—“ What ? Do you say your master instructed you what to say ? ”“ Yes.”And did he promise or give you any reward for what you were to say ?Yes.“ How much did he give or promise youfor answering as he directed you ? ”“ He. gave me fifteen pound notes.”Here Mr Forret and his council, loginjall patience, interrupted the proceedings rthe latter addressing the Judges, wit i-pompous vehemence, to the following puiport :—“ My Lords, in my client’s name, an f17in the name of justice and reason, I pro¬test against proceeding with this woman’s'evidence, it being manifest that she is talk¬ing through a total deramgement of intel¬lect. At first she is dumb, she cannot an-|wer nor speak a word, and now she is an¬swering in total disregard of all truth andpropriety. I appeal to your Lordships ifliiich a farrago as this can be aj, all inferenti-d or relevant ? ”“ Sir, it was but the other mmute,” saiddie junior Judge, “ that you announced tois with great importance, that this womanwas a person noted for honesty and worth,und one who would not tell a lie for theting’s doihinions. Why not then hear herllvidence to the end ? For my own part, Ilerceive no tokens of discrepency in it, butlather a scrupulous conscientiousness. Of|hat, however, wQ will be better able tojudge when we have heard her out, T oon-lieve that, for the sake of both parties, thisjvoman should be strictly exaiuined.”' “Proceed with the evidence, Mr Wood,”laid the senior Lord, bowing to his assist¬ant.|| Tibby was reminded she was on hertreat oath, and examined over again ; butin* adhered strictly to her former answers.“ Can yon repeat anyf-mar to the Cointhat he cfesiveuyou to say?”“ Yes; hf'desired me over and over:gain to .td tJie Vrdiole truth, and nothinhut the truth.”i&id, in order tliat yen should do ththe paid you tlownfift.eeii pounds sterling“ Yes.”“ This is a very singular transaction :eamiot perceive the meaning of it. Y<certainly must be sensible that you matan advantageous bargain ? ”“Yes,”“But you depone that he charged y>to tell only the truth ?.“Yes, he did, and before witnesses, to<Here Mr Fpn et’s counsel began to cr<amain* us if the victory hud been his o\yhut the jurdor Judge again, took him sh«by'saying, “ Have patience, sir, the wman m iy ho right, and your client in twrong; at, least 1 think I can perceive«much. Now, my goruhvoinan, I estc*your principals and plain simplicity v«highly. We- want only to ascertain ttruth, and you say your master thcharged you to tell that onhy. Tollthis, theft';—did he not inform you w.that trufli was ?. ”19-w'Yes. it v.^.3 for that purpose ho carrso-over to see me, to help my memory to-what was tho truth; 'for fear. I shouldhae sworn v/raitg, which wad line haebeen a great sin, ye ken.”“ Yes, it would so^ I thought that worh.Lhe the war. You mav now go- on with,your questions regularly, 33a* Wood.”“Are you qfiiUe- conscious, now, thatthose things he Ireoueht to your remet&r*hranee were' actually the truth.? ”“ No.”“ Are you conscious they were not the* •truth ? ”Yes, at Icastsomeofthcmlhasarcwerenotv.“ Please to condescend on one instance”.Hc'S^ys hehasmarkit on his huik, that; .the crotmit hourn, tluit 1 iesafehe hack ofthe wood, ye ken grew peas-in the 9(>' and; corn in the 97 V now* it is uncoI queer that he should hae setten’t downtwrang, for the homn was- really and tru¬ly aits With the years.”'“It is a longtime since ; perhaps your|i moTnoiy may he at fault ? ”1“ If my master had not chance<l-to mention itl(;ould nofh are heens.ure;J)uthesctme a-cal-eulating & comparing, myinotlicr & me havebeen con.-adiingabuotit&have fairly sc! tlcdlt.I ‘’‘ And you are quite positive it was.20oat. both years ? ”“ Yes.”“Can you mention any circumstance onwhich you rest your conclusions?”. :“Yes; there came a great wind ae Sab-jbath day, in the ninety-sax, and that rais¬ed the sheares’ wages, at Dumfries, to throshillings the day. We began to the crookihoum on a Monandy’s morning, at threeshillings-A-day, and that very day twalmontb,wc began-till’t at tenpenee.. We had a gooedeal of speaking about it, and I said UJohn Edie, What need we grumble! I mades re muekel at shearing the last year, that|it’s uo a’ done yet. And he said, Ah TibbyTibby, but wha can Lain like you ?Yrere there' anv others that you thiul*yo r master had marked down wrong?There was ane at any rate, the lang-fiehniestRobie Jphnston’s mareli: He says it w aclover in the drouthy dear year, and-a its th*jniest. hut that’s a year I eanna forget; it wasaits baith years. I lost a week’s shearing 01it tlie first year, waiting on my auntie, amthe neist, year she was dead; and I shore thlang field niest Robbie Johnston’s wi’ hesickle heuk, and black ribbons on my mutchJ’he whole of Tibby s evidence wentgainst Mr Forret s interest most conch:21vely, and the Judges at last dismissed her,Hth liigh com j)liments on her truth and iute-t ity. The cause was again remitted to theloiirt of Session for revisal after this evi-ence taken, and the word spread over allje country that Mr Ferret had won. Tib-/ never contridieted this nor disputed it,it she was thoroughly convinced, that iniace of winning he would be a ruinedan.About a month after the examination ati'limfries, he received a letter from hisfluents in Edinburgh, buoying him up withopes of great and instant success, and urg-g the utility of his presence in town atte final decision of the cause on which all»e minor ones rested. Accordingly hequipped himself, and rode into Dumfries,. the evening, to he ready for the coache following morning, saying to his wife,ll he went away, that he would send homes mare with the carrier, and as that hemid not possibly name the day on which| would be home, she was to give herself* uneasines. The mare was returned thedowinS night, and put up in her own stall,body knew by whom; but servantse such sleepy, careless fellows that fewjgarded the circumstance. This was onII22a Tuesday night; and a whole week pass*over, arid still Mrs Forret had no word froher husband, which kept her very uneaslas their whole fortune, being, and subsbence, now depended on the issue of tlgreat law-suit, and she suspected that tease still continued dubious, or was tbuito he going against himBut, behold, on the arrival’ of the Ed.burgh papers next week, the whole cso important to fanners; was detailand it was there stated, that the great flirier and improves, Mr Forret of Drimdoic, had not only forfeited his whole fortrby improper husbandry and manifestbreaes of the conditions on which he heldlearn, but that criminal letters had beensued against him for attempts to pervljustice, and rewards offered for his det[tion or Seizure This was terrible newsthe family at Drumlochie, but there wstill sanguine hopes entertained thatcircumstances, were unstated, or at allvents that the husband and father womake his escape; and as there was no wfrom him day after day, this latter sement began to be cherished by the wl:family as their only remaining and forljhope.But one day, as poorTibby Hyslopto,;ij gning over to. the Cat Li nr!, to' gather a; bainleii of sticks for firewood, she was sur-| prised, on looking over the dike, to see agreat body of erows collected, all of whichwere so intent on tlieir prey, that theyij seemed scarcely to-iwgml her presence fis-a sufficient cause -for their desisting 5- she-waved her burieh-rope- at them over thedike, but they refused to move. Her heartneurlyfailed her, for shereniemhredofhavingbefore seen soraetbiiig of the same scene,with some fearful concomitants. But purei: and unfeigned religion, the first principleI of which teaches a firm reliance on divineprotection, can give courage to the weakestI of humane beings. Tibby climbed overthe dike, drove the vermin away, arid therelay the corpse of her late unfortunate mas¬ter, wofully defaced bv these voracious birdsI of prey. He had bled hi moelf to death in!the Jugular vein, was lying without the hat,and clothed ih a fine new black suit ofclothes, top boots, which appeared likewiseto be new, and gilt spurs; and’ the placewhere he lay was a little three-corneredsequestered spot, between the dike and theprecipice, and inaccessible by any otherway than through the field. It was a spott that Tibby had never seen before..24A city dream is nothing but the fumesof a distempered frame, and a more dis- (tempered imagination; but let no man jdespise the circumstantial and impressivevisions of a secluded Christian ; for whocan set bounds to the intelligence ex- |isting between the soul and its Creator? 3The only thing more I have to add is, jithat the Lord President, having made the fremark that he paid more regard to that !poor woman, Isabella Hyslop’s evidence, |than to all the rest elicited at Dmnfries, |the gainers of the great plea became sen- |sible that it was principally owing to hercandour, and invincible veracity that theywere successful, and sent her a presentof twenty pounds. She was living com¬fortably at Know'-back when I saw her,a contented and happy old maiden. Theletter was found in Mr Ferret’s pocket,which had blasted all his hopes and driv¬en him to utter destraction ; he had rec¬eived it at Dumfries, returned home, andput his mare carefully in the stable, butnot having courage to face his ruined family,he had hurried to that sequestered spot, andperpetrated the woeful deed of self desruct-ion.FINIS,