THECOURT LADY’sTRUE AND INGENIOUS 'F O R T U N E - B O O K.DIRECTED TO ALLYoung Men, Maids, Widows and Widowers.CONTAINING,I. A Table that refolves all .Quejlions in Love.II. The Signification of Moles. *HI. The Interpretation of Dreams.IF. Hew to know if a Female be a true Virgin.V. How to know if a young Man has lojl his Maiden^Head.Vi How to make a famous Love Powder.VII. How Batchelors Maids Widows and Widow¬ers^ may fee the Faces of them they JhaltMarry, in a Drinking-Glafs.Stirling, Printed in the Y^ar 1S0 3,THE TABLE OF FIGURES.This Part of the TABLE is for MEN.PH ? f s ) C 1 2 > c; jt 6 \ 3~T5 I 3 1 6 I 4 | 5 I 4 ? 6 [The QUESTIONS for MEN.m How many Vives /halt a Man have ?A.nf'.ver Go to the Letter A.2 What Portion fiiail a Man have with his Wife hAnfwer. Go to the Letter B3, What kind of WomansCiall one’s Wife bs ?Anfwtr Go to the Letter C.This Part cfthe TABLE is for WO MEN.jJMThe QUES TIONS far WOMENF. What kind of a Man fliali your ^iufband be ?Anfwtr Go to -the Letter G2. Mow many Hufbands (hail you have ?Lnfwer. Go to the Letter H3. Whether is it be ft for a Woman to Marry ?Anfwer Go to the Letter I.The fable having a paper kid over it, prickat it blindfold, having firft vurned youth If fourtimes round, it fhews the \nfwtr of the Quef-tion you defire. If you mifs the Line, you mayprick again for if four days you prick on thePlanet Line, and go to the Lett, r and Figure,or Planet you chance’to prick on j and thereyour Queflion is refolvedTHE QJJLS ri.OMo FOR. MLi'f.IT.iv many WivesJhall a Man have?K f~\ NE wife thou’h have,both young and rich,V-/ But fhe fhall have a \nantna itch.Shifting her quarters now and then.For love fhe bears to other nun.g r2 1 4 1 pi 2 1 $ 1 1 i 26 1 > 1 5 I 3 ) 6 i 4 | j 1 4THE COURT LADY’S, &C.a. Two wives I fay thou art to wed.Both which are lawful to thy bed jSons by the firft thou fhalt have flore,And by the lafl have many more3. thou art to have thy neighbour’s wife.And be a cuckold all thy life ;For when her hufband’s dead and gone,Thou’lt wear the horns thyfelf put on.4 Wives thou art allotied three.More than are good f promife thee jThe firfl is like m be the beftBut wif!> the de'il take all the reft,5 rwo wives thou art defign’d to wed.But one will hornify thv head ;The other won't be worth a groat.Yet (he will drub thy cuckold’s coat.6 As many moles as you may fee.Betwixt the navel and th» knee jSo many girls thou art to meet,! Betwixt the top and under fheet.IlVbat Portion Jhall a Man have •with his Wife?B. M T AVE no regard to worldly p If,1 1 She 11 have a portion of her felf j1 A chafte. a fweet, and comely dame,1 "With virtues more than l can name,2 With a good wife thou fliak be bleft,| That portion is wrorth all the reft ;’ She find I have gold and fdver ftore,IWhat can thou then defire more ?3 Ihou’it have her belly to her chili.But of thy neighbou s laying in,With a tongue that foun is as w&_l.Ana loud as the high ftecple bell,"4. An hundred pounds in beaten gold.Thou at thy marrh-ge lhalt behold j4- the court lady'sWhich thy wife ftiali unto thee bring.And many other needful'thing.5« The grand defigners of thy match.Will for their own advantage watch,They talk of more than thou wilt find,Therefore leave off and change your mind*6. * Fis true her portion is but fmall,But thou defetveft none at all;If fhe had ne’er a petticoat.She’s richer than thee by a groat.What lind of Woman one's Wife Jhall hi,C. ^^OME be not of thy dame fo proud,The little woman will be lewd }Then go to fome convenient poolWherein there ftands a ducking-ftool.2 Thy wedding day is like to be,A prologue of felicity $For fhe that is to be thy love.Will be as chafle as any dove.3 f hy wife will be an honeft dame,Ano M begins her Chriftian name :Then let not fears pofiefs thy head.For fhe will ne’er defi]e thy bed.4. Thy wife will be an arrant fcold,111 natur’d, ugly, poor and old ;A whore a fluu and ugly too.Yet fhe will always,brawd at you.5, A homely pufs. of nature bafe.With crooked looks and crabbed face.Both poor and bafely born and bred,Such is the wife that thou fhaltwed.6 A girl of middle age and fl ature.Yet lofty in her mind and nature jAnd when thou corn’ft into her yoke.Put up thy horns into thy poke.5FORTUNE-BOOK.THE QUESTIONS FOR WOMEN.What kind sj Man ycur ^Mujharid fhall be.G. A Proper hufband 1 JuppofeWith brownifh hair aad Roman nofe,i: His name beginneth with aHe hath a mole upon his knee,2- Thou’h have a pretty daper man,"Who will love thee dearly honeft Nan j'His name beginneth with a G,i And uill a loving hufband be.3. A gallant fpark. in Glafgow town,'Who does go buffing up and down,fl! More wit than money-has the blade,if Or I’ll give o’er my fortune trade.4 4n aged widower thou ffialt wed,ii, And thou Inak horniiy his head ;E But he will foonfrom thee be hurl’d,11 And fent into the other world,5. rIe will be of complexion fair,A thinniffi beard, and yellow hair jHis name beginnctli with an L,He loves thee moft exceeding well.6 Marriage the glotious crown of love,A bieffing unto thee will prove;Thy hufband will be a handfome man.And to pkafe thee do all he can.Hew many Hujbands one Jhall havr.II njPffE man that liveth near thy home,1 And conftantly at night doth come,I fay. do all ye can ’tis he,And he alone that ffiall have thee.2 Only one hufband thou (halt have.And he wall fee thee to thy graveBut he will fo lament for thee,That he focn after will buried be.6 THE COtTRT LADY**3* One hufband I tor thee dwcd.Who will from danger thee prou d,And chenlh thee in time of need.If thou from horns will keep his head.4 One huflb.md thou fhalt find enough.For he will ufe thee very rough;But yet for that be not diima)MThou’lt fee him in his coffin laid.5. Two hufbands l tor thee allot.But one of them will prove a fot; *The other hufband thou (halt find,Honeft, loving, chafte and kind6 Two hufbands i to for thee defign,Thou’lt break one’s heart, the other thine ;The firfl fhall never care for thee.And with the laft thou’lt not agree.Whether it is hejl for a Woman to marry*I. that in ftature is the leaft,11 Of all thy t'weet-hearts is the beft :Have him I fay at the next offerThou’lt ne’er have fuch another proffer.2. If thou wilt once thy love confefs.And let him know your happinefs;With greedy arms unto him move,He will embrace thee and thee love.3. Wedlock will be to thee a curfe.Yet better marry than do worfe jMarriage is better honft Kate,Than to repent when it’s to late.4 Marriage is bell by every voice,But thou, poor girl, hall not thy choice ;The joys thereof tho’ mixt with woe,Doth virgin treafure far outgo5. The marriage-bed, and wedding-ring,Will unto thee much pleafure bring j7FORTWNE*BOOK..Then at the n xt offer of a mate,Strike up before it be to late.6 Doit thou not long to be a wife,JAnd live a while a married life ?Thou longeft for the bleffed fweets,That doth attend the wedding-(heets.The Signification of MolesA mole on the left fi le of the forehead, de¬notes early love but fome croffes and difappoint-nents ^ on the right fide, fignifies fuecefs in love :!an the left, happy marriage : on the right breaft,tender affection : and on the left, difappointmentin love. Near the nav 1 fruitfulnefs in men orwomen: on the lip to a woman, eafein childbirth;Co a man a loving mate : on the knees, riches.A mole on the am le denotes a man to beiwoman-like in his actions: a mole on the footiiwirhin the flioe. denotes a man or wroman to be^Forward and far travellers: a nv le on the back-bfide of the neck, denotes an untimely end, ifgrace prevent it not.The Interpolation tj Dreams-To dream you are bit by a ferpent, or any[wild beaft. fignifieth danger by fubtile enemies ;co dream you hie in the air, denotes a fpeedy jour-aiey or halty news : to dream you tight and over-iome is to get the better of controverfies or iavv-iiuits: to dream a lion or ravenous beuft fawnsippon you is promotion and the favour of greatj nen : to dream of black coffins and mourners,denotes loving friends to be all well: to dream"ou fee me dead, denotes they are in goodteal.h : to dream you are in fielcs of ripe 11 and-Ing corn, betokens joy and profperby ; ra dreamou are conn ing lilver and receiving money, istofu and advantage; but gath.ring up, or re.8 . THE COURT LADY*S, &C.'ceiving copper mcrr-v is iofs and difappointment: Ito dream you. fee a white hone coming to you is Ithat you fhall foon receive a letter, A. woman to!dream (he killes another woman is difappoint-lme*t in lovfc: a wo nan to dream that a ring orlglove is put on her finger or hand is fudden maN|ringe : *<o dream that one is all helhhten, and isinot fo, betokens good luck in bufinefs next day. IHow :o know if a Ftmafe b* a true VirginTake colwort leaves, garlick flowers Gutnealpepper, and the powder of lutheren-wcod leaves,^wrapped together.and burn in the fire where fhe isjif flie fneeze not, (he is a pure virgin &if (he does,’fne has enjoyed the benefit of a man’s hard labour.How to hionu if a Alan has lo/I kis Al i ulen htadtTake the root of a cuckoo pint, dry it in an oven,po wder it. and put as much of it into his drink aswill ly on a Giver twopence, give it unknown tohim, in wine, beer or ale if he be importunateto go out and make water and that often hehas been doing what his daddy did, but if liekeeps his feat and'water too the contrary.H: w to make a true and fafe Love Powder,Take of the female fera-root a quarter of anounce, dry it well powder it with the feeds oflupines and burnt peach-fiones put it into beeror wine, and when you drink ol it, blow yourbreath therein, give it to the perfon you love,and they will become of the fame mind and lev- jing nature as youriell.Haw 1'i fee the Fuse of thfe you are to ALirryTake a young black hen’s fir ft egg, and dropit into a large drinking gjafs of warm water, andIn it may be feen their face, and the very took«sf their employment.FIHlf,