Eatcred according to Order*l79b3?ADYCORKWith his COAT button'd Behind*.BEING♦An elegant Conference betweenand Irifh TE\GUE.'r H ^COMICAL SAYINGSTHE COMICAL SAYINGS, &t.Tom. Ood-morrow, St, rhis is a very cold dayjV_J Teague. Arra dear hcney, yelleruighewas a very cold morning.Tom. Well brother tjavelier, of what nation artthou ? Teag. Arra dear Ihoy I .come from our ownkingdom.2a?w. Why Sir, I know that, but where is thykingdom ? Teag. Allelteq d*ar huncy, do net youknow Cork in Ireland ?Tom. i) you fool i Cork is not a kingdom buta city. Teag. Then dear fhoy, 1 am lure it is in akingdom.Tom. And what is the reafon vou have come andleft your own dear coxintry ? Teag. Arxa dear ho¬ney, by fliaint Patrick, they have got ifuch corn callaws in our country, that ihey’ll {nit a man todearhin perfeQ health : fo to-be free end plain with youneighbour, I was obliged ur come away, for 1 didnot chuf* to (lay among 1’uch a people, that can hanga poor pan when they pleate, if he cither Heals, robs'or kills a man.Torn. Ay, but I take you to be more, of an ho-netl man, than If. (leal, rob or kill a man. Ttag,Honed ! I am perteftly honed, when I wa* but achild, my mot er would have traded me with aho jf full of mi! done-.Tom. What was the matter, was you guilty ofriothng ? Teag Arra dear honey. I d<] harm tQno body; bu fancied an old gentleman's gun, andafterwards made it iny own.Tom Very well boy, and did you keep it fo ?Teag. Keep it ! I would have kept it with all myheart while I lived, death itl'df could not haveparted us, but the old rogue, the gentleman, bein$, (7 3 )a juftice of ppace himfelf, hid ms tried forthe ngtu^ of itj and how I citae fay ir, and fj took‘t aea.o.Tom. And how did you clear yourfelf without! punifiiment ? Tcag. Arra dear fhoy, I told them aparcel’of Ties, but they would not believe me, for II laid 1 got it from tny father when it was a little pil-tol, ana 1 hid'keejietl it till it had grown a gup, andfwas dcfigned to ufe it well, until it had turned a bigcannon, and then fold it to the military ; they fellI a laughing at me, as i had been a fool, and bid me| go home to my mother and clean the potatoes.Tim. And how long is it fin.ee you left your own' country ? Teag. Arra dear honey, I do pot mindwhether it be a fourthnight or four mouths, but Ithink myfelf it is a long time ; they tell me my mo-ither is dead fince, but 1 won*t believe it, until I gee|a iefter from her own hand, for Ihe is a very goodfchoiar, fuppofe Ihe can neither read nor write.I '-Tom. Was you ever in England before?’ Teag^Ay that I was, and in Scotland too.j Tvn. And were they kind to you when you wrastin Scotland ?' Teag. They were that kind, thattncy k ck3d rfty srfe for me, and the reafon was, be-pufe J would not pay the whole of the liquor thatwas dfunk in the company, though tne landlord andus two.tons got oiouthfuils about of it; they wouldnave me to pay it all, though [ did not drink it ail.,I told them it was a trick upon traveller*, firlt todrink Ins liquor, and then to kick him out of doors.; Tom. I really think they ufed you badly, bucijould you not beat them f* Teag, That’s what I|id, beat theni all to their own contentment; butjier« was one of them fironger than me, who wouldlave killed me, if the other two had not pulled me•way, srid I had to run for it, till his pailioh wasver; .en they made us drink and gree again; we.<;ok hands and nud« a bargain never to bang; uthecAa< 4 )more, but tliis bargain did not la ft long, for as Iwas k fling his rnoutji, by Ihaint Patrick, I did bitehis no! e, which cauied him beat me very tore forjpy painsTom \Ve]l Pady, what calling was you when iijScotland ? Teag. Why, Sir, 1 was no bufincfs atall; but what do yap call the green tree that’s likea whin bufli, many pepple makes a thing to i'weepthe houfc ot it.Tow. M yes Fatly* it was a groom you mean, byI fapcy you was but cook’s mate, or,kitchen-boy.Teag. No, no, it fwas i^he broom thf^t 1 was, andI had ftayed there till now. I. might have been adyanced as high as my mailer, lor the ladies loveiae fo well, that they laughed at me.Tom. Av, they might adm re you for p foal.Teag. Warn, Sir, do you imagine l am not a fooJijpo, no, my mAfter allted eourfel of me in all his jRat.ters, and 1 always gave him a reaftjn for every tl.itigjX told h’m one mprping, tlisit he \vepi tQn f°nnthe hunting, that the h«re^ was not got out of theiibeds, and neither the bark pg qf horns, npr tht blow,ing pt dogs couid make them i/ife, it was fuch a coldmorning thu night; fo they ail ran avay that ny«Catched when we did not fee them. Then my mat¬ter to’.d my words to levtyal gentlemen that was atdinner wuh him. and tiiey admired me for my wantwifdom faying, 1 was certainly a man of grrat judginent, ft?r my head a!1 in a lump; added, they•were going to fiihing alpng with my mafter ard ijmin the afternoon, but 1 told them that it was a verjunhappy thing, for any man to go a-linn ting 1° tinmorning, and a-fiiliing in the afternoon ; yet theiwtoild try it, jaut they had -better Hayed at hatn«|(for it came on a molt terrible fine night of lout,weft rain, and even down wind; fo the fifties got ain below (bp water, to keep them dry ff<*M tfasver, and we ditched ihem aft{, but got none ofthemTom A.!id li^tw long did you ferve that gentle-imn Pady ? Teug. I was with him fix, weejts, andhe b«at me feven ticnfs.‘Jom for what did he beit you, was it for youripadnets and fouliih tricks,? 1e$g Dear thoy icwas not; but for being tot* tnquilitiyp, and goingIharplv about bufinpf,. Fir(f, He fent me tq thejjotf-office, to enquire if there was any letters forhim ; fo when I came there, faid I, is there any let¬ters here for my maffer to day ? Then they afkedbis who was nty iriafterj Sr, faid I, it is vvry badmanners in you to afk any geiitlenian?s name; at thi«thty laughed, mocking me, atK? faid they could notgive me none, if l would not tell my mafier's name:fo I returned to *ny mailer, and told him tl,e impu¬dence of the fellow, how he would give me no let¬ters, unlefs 1 would tell him your narue, mailer Myrendter, at this hew in a great pafliori, and kick’d medown Hairs, laying, go yon rogue and tell my namedireffly, how can the gentleman gi'-e letteis, whenhe knows not who is alking for them ? Tht n 1 re¬turned and to id my nailer’s name, fo they told methere was one kr hijn, 1 locked tt it, being but veryfuiaU, and afkirt-g the price of it. they told ms icwas lixpencc; fixptnee, kid T, will yep take fix*!pence log that fmall thrug, apd kiting bigger onesfor twopenoe laith 1 am not lueh a big tool; youthink to cieat me dow, this is net a confcionabl*w^y of dealing. I'll acquaint my mailer of it fiflt;fo I came a< d told my maOer how thty would havefrxpei.ee for his leturr. and was felling bigger oneskr twopence, he ttmk up my head and broke hisCane with it, calling u;e a thoufand fools, laying, th«man w'as morejuk than to take any thing but the,right for it ; our 1 w-.«s lure toe re was none in thei, light,, buying ^jid kiliixg dtarpenny-worths; fo Ia3/0eanre again for my dear fixpe^ce letter and the |ftilow was fh ffl c/g through a parcel of ths’ui Itek- j|ing for it Jigain, to mrke the belt of a dear marker,I p-tck'd up two, and home I comes to my niafter, [lthinking he would be welbpleafed with what I had |!done, now, faid I, mafler. I rh:nk*I have put a trick 1On them fellows for felling the letter fo dear to your |What have you done, (aid he ? faid I, I’ve only ta¬ken other two letters; here is one for you mailer, ||,tb help your dear penny-worth, and I’ll fend the 1other to my mother to fee whether fhe be dead or |alive, for /lie’s always angry J don’t write to her ;1 had not the word well fpoken, til! he got up hisHick and beat me heafrily for it, and lent me back 1to the fellows again with the two: I had Very ill-will to go, but no body would buy them off me bythe way. .Tom. A well Pady, I thi; k you wss to blame,and your mafler too, for he ought to have teachtityou how to have gone about thole affairs, and notbeat you fo Ttag. Arm dear honey, I had toomuch wft of my own to lie teached by him or anybody elfe, he began to ir.ltruft me after that, how Iihould ferve the table, at d fuch unity things as thofej.one right 1 took ben a roafteri bin in the one hanei,and a piece of bread in the other, the old-gentleman■was fo faucy he would not tike it, ai d told me Ifhould bring nothing to him without a trencher be¬low it; the lame night as he wss going to bed, hecalled for his flippers and a piiii-pot, fo 1 elapt in a 1trencher below the pith pot and another below theflippers, and ben I goes to him one in every hand:no looner did I enter the room, than he threw thepifh-pot at me, which broke bu:h my head and thepilii-pot at one blow ; now, laid I. the d i is iumy mailer altogether, for what he commands at onetime, he countermands at another; next day 1 went,>vkh him to thi in.rkct t« buy a lack of potatoes,,»v,I went to tji<f pntstoO .monger,’ ard sficed what Si€ /£)took, for fhe full of a Scots cog, he weighed themin, he afl«d no lefs than four-pence: four-pence,fail! I, if I were but in Dublin, I would get the fullof that for no hing, and in Cork and Kingfale farcheaper, them is but linall things like peafe, laid I,but the potatoes in my country is as big as your' head, fine meat all made up in blefied mouthful's %6 the poratre merchant called me a liar, and my maf*1 ter cabled me a fool, lo the one fell a-kicking me,alnd the other a-cyffi ig me, l was in fuch bad breadbetween them, that I called myfe f both a liar anda fop! to get off alive.Tom. And how d d you carrv yout potatoeshome from the market? Teag Arra dear Ihoy, lcarried the horfe and them both, beficfes a big loaf,and two bottles of wine; for I put the old hojfe onmy back, and drove up fhe potatoes before me; andwhen I tied the load to the loaf, 1 had nothing todo but to carry the bottles in my hand, but bad luckto rhe way as I came home, for a nail cut of theheel of my foot fprung a le. k in my brog, whichpricked toe very bone, bruiftd the fkin, and mademy brog itfelf to blood: and I having no hammerby me, but a hatchet J left at home, I had to beatdowp the point of the, rad with the bottom of thebottle; and by the box>k de?r flroy, it broke all topieces, and featured the wine m my mou h.Tcm. And how did you recompci ce your maf-ter for th« lofs of the bottle of wine ? Terg. Arradear ihiry, I h?d a mind to ch^at him »rci myielftoo, for 1 took the bottle away to aBlackfmith, and! deiif'.-d him to mend i% that t might go to the but¬chers and get it fufi of bloody water,' but he toldme, he could not work ir Vny thing but (feel andiron. Arra, fa'e I. if I v/fte in nv own kingdom,I could get a blacTtfmtrh; wno couki make a bottiflout oi a none, and a lioue out. oi noth;»ig.I d jTom, And bow did you crick yoor reader out efit ? Teag. Why the «^ld rogue began to chide n;e„ •afking roe what way I broke it ; then I htld up theother as h^gh a> rny bead, and lets it fall to theground on a flone, which broke it all in pieces I ke-wife ; now faid i! mafler, that's the wav, and thenhe heat me very heartily, until I had to fhout uieicyand murder at ores.Tom. Why did you not If awe him, when he ufedyou to badly ? Teog. Arra dear Ihoy, I cmdd neverthink to leave him, while I could eat, he gave me foMany good victuals, and promifed to prefer me tobe his bout-picker} hut by (haint Patrick, l hid torun away with my life or »ll was done, elfe I hadlofi my dear fh ul and body too by him. And then1 come home much poorer nor I went away. Thegreat bitch dog, that was my rnafter’s bdf bdqved,pot in its head koto a pitcher to hek out foiae milk,and when it was in he could rot get it cur, and I,to fave the pitcher, got the hucbec and cutced ofTthe dog’s head, and then I had to break the pitcherbefore I got out the head, by this 1 loff both th*dog and the pitcher ; my matter hearing of this,,fwore he would cut the head off me, for the poordog was made ufejefs, and could not fee rci fol 1/jwatny body for want of his eyes } and when I heardof this l run away with my own he. d, for if I hadwanted it i had lott my tyes too, then J would nochave feen the road to Pot t patrrek, through Gien-nap, but by ihaint Patrick, 1 cams home alive iu fpiteof them all.Tom. O rarelv done Pady, you behaved like aman, but what is the reafon that you Irilh peopleIwear alwavs by flu nt Patrick, what is he this IhamtPatrick ? Teag. Arra dear honey, he was the beltJhafot in the world, the father of all f t>od people inour kingdom, he has a great kindnefs for an Iritti-suan,. wUcii. lie bears him calling on his name ; htt'- was thr firft that Tow’d the potatoes in Ireland, forhe knew it was a bit of good tat jsrnpnd, it being a l&gentleman’s garden beforie Noah’s flood.Turn. But tic'.r Pndy,»it thaint Patrick yet alive,that he hears the iiith people when they (peak of hisname? Teag. Arra dear horey, 1 don’t kno^y whe-thtr ite be oead or alive, bur it is a long time fircethey kill’d hi-ni the people turned $!1 heathens, buche would not ‘’ nge his profeflton, and was goingro run the country with it, and for taking his gol-pel away to England, fo the barbarous Tones ofD ibfln cutted olFhis head, and what do you thinkhe did when hijs h ;ad w^s off'. 'Torn. P/iiat could a dead man de< you fool ?De d.! faith he was not Inch a big fool asi die yet, he fwiin’d over to England after this, andr brought his head alorg with him.Tom And how did he carry his head and fwlmtoo? Teag. Arra dear honey, he carried his headj in ids teeth;Tom. No Pady it won’t hold; I mult have cau¬tion tor that. I eng- If you wo’ut believe me i’ll(wear it over again.PART II.Tom. A ND how d d you get fafe out of Scot-'TTX land at lufl? 'Teag. By the lava dearhoney, when I came to Portpatrick, and faw myown kingdom. I thought 1 was fafe at home, but Iwas dean dead and aimed drowned before I couldget ridmg over the water ; for l wiih nine or tenpaShagers mure, leapt on a little young boat, hav¬ing but four men dwelling in a little honfe, ia theone end of it, which was aU thackec with deals j ant!after they had puilrd up her tedder ft ek, and laidher long halter over her main, they pull’d up a longb-g Iheet nke three or four pair of blankets, to theriggwi ot tfaa ho.yic; and the v iod blew ia ijiatr,.S + - , '=   “ ^ IIwhich made her gallop up out hill and down ano-- ,xhcr, till 1 thought file would hsv-e run to the world’s*end, if feme part of the world had not catcht herby a foot.Tom. I fancy, Pady, by this rime you was very!lick? Jeag. S'.ck, ay lick beyond all-fickneU, clean*dead as a uoor-nail, tor as I h^.d loll the key <if my,'back-hde, 1 hock’d uo iron the bottom of my belly,. |and 1 thougnt that liver and iunc*^ ano all t4ut i |jhad, fhoulu have gone together, then I call d to the ffellow that held her by the tail behind, to puli downIns (beet and hold her heal, ciil i got leilure to hit,and then fay my prayersTom. Well then Pauy, atfd got yob alhore Iat latt ? 'Teag. Ay we came aliu re ve ry t»it but,by lhaint Patrick, 1 iliall never venture d«i«r Ihoul |and body in fuch a young boa: again whi e the winds; ib ow out ot Scots Galloway.Torn VVeli Pady, and where did you go whenyou came to Ireland again ? Teag. Ana, dearhoney, and where did 1 go but to my own dear cul-lins, who now was become very rich by the ceathof the old buck his father, who died but few weeksbefore I went over, aad the parilh had to bury hintcut of pity, it did not cgU him a farthing.Torn. Ai d what erilerrainmfnt or good ufage didyou get there Pudy ? Teag. O my dear ihoy, I viaskindly ulfd as another gentleman, f^r I told him Ibad made fomething of it, by my travels as well asktmfelf; but 1 had got no money, therefore I had towork for my victuals while i Hayed with, him.Tom- Ho, poor Pady, 1 fuppole you would notCay long there ?Teag. Arra dear honey, I could have Hayed there9,long enough, but when a man is poor his frierdsthinks but li’tle of him : 1 told him I was going tofee my brother Hary : Hary faid he, Hary is dead.Lfcad, (aid 1, and wltu kill’d hint i V'“f} faidb«>de.^rb: Alelieu, diar ho ey, «nd where d:d he kti 1\hhn, laid 1: in his bed faid lie ; O whiat for a cow-a dlv adio'i was that, faidJ, to kill a man inbsd : and what.is he th^s fellow death, laid i ? W^hstis he, he is one that ki-Hs mb re ;han the head-nitciurin a<i Cork does v Arra, dear nooey, Ivd I, it i.ehi j been on Newry mountain, wun his brogs on,! and hts br-oid iwor.l by hr- fide, all the deaihs tu! Iceland had not kill’d nim: O :hat nrtjMident fellowdeath, if he had letren h n alone till" he had a diedtor wan* of butter*mtik and potatoes, 1 am fore hawould h re jived ail the days of h s life,Tom In aii your travels, when abroad, did younever fee none cf your countrymen, to inform youor what happened at nome concerning your relati-j on- ? T*ag Arra dear ihoy, I faw none but To nJnck one oav on the rtrsuf; but when I came toh>m, t w»s not him, tuit o.ie juft like him.Tom. On what account dvd .you go a travelling?, 'Teag Why a decrmring fergeant iiited me to be acaptain, and after ail advanced me no higher tnana fo'oier itfeif, but only he called me his dear cour-tryman recruit; for I did not know what the reg'-nisnt was when Tfaw them, I thought they were allgentlemens Ions and cafiegenors, when 1 la<y a boxlike a b'bie upoe their beihei: until I haw /r terking George upon it, and Ft for G—d biefsvhitu ;i hn, ho, faid I, I Ihaint be long here.,Tom. O then Hady, you deferted from themJ7eag Ay, that’s what 1 did, anti run to the moun¬tains like a wild buck, and ever firree whm I le«any foldiers 1 clofe my eyes, left they fhould lookand know me.Tom. Ard w hat exploits did you do wheft yellwas a foldier?Teag. Arra, dear fhoy, I kill’d a manjTom. And how did you that? Teag. Arra clearhoney when he dropt h;s fword,. I drew mine* and:( i»advanced be!a!y to t.im, *nu then omted cff hir i|jfoot.Tom.. O then what a bi}! fool was you ; for you Ijought rirll to have cutted ofl'lus head, '/tag Arradear Ihoy. his he^d was cuitethi S’before 1 eogagtdi |hi:u, dfe I had not done it.Tom. Q then Fady. you acted Hits a fool; but ,you are not inch a big fool as many take you to* 1be; you might pa's fer a phiiotopber. Itag A-fu- |luiifair ! my father was a iuiuufor, befit)es he was a.man under great authority by law, cohduntring thejuil and charing the guilty; do you know how they joil the hories mother.Tom. Why they cal! her a mare; Ttvg. A mare,ay very well minded, by fhaint Patrick, my fatherwa' mare in Go kTom. And what riches was' left you by the death'of your ntother ?Ttag. A bad luck to her old barren belly, for i{he lived in great plenty, and died in great poverty j.devoured up all er ihe died, but two hens and a pock¬ful of potatoes, a poor etUie for an ir ih gentiimanin faith.Torm And what did you make of your hens andpotatoes,, did you fow' th^m? Tcag, Ana dear fhoy,1 lowed them m my belly ; and fold the hens to *Cadger-Tom. And w'hat bufinefs d d your mother follow Iafter? Teag, Greatly in tae merch-int-way-!Tcm. And what fort of goods cud Ihe oeal iu ? 1Ttag. Dear honey, Ihe went through the country 1and fold imall Hikes,onions and apples; bought hensand eggs, and then hatch’d them herfelf: l remem¬ber of one long-necked cock the had of an over fea ibrood, that he Hood on the midden and pick'd ail Ithe (iars out of the nofwcii, fo they wsic act or lothick thers fhscc*Tom. Now Pady, that’s a LnvM farpsfTes all ; butis there none of that cock’s oftsprii g alive in iietanrlnow ? Teag. Arra dear (hoy, I don’t think that the*/are, but it is a pity bur they had, for they wou’4fly with people above the f:a, winch would pvtt thsufe of (hips out of fafhton, ar,:i taeu there would bedo body drown’d at f’ea at all.Tm. Very wtil Pady. but in all your travels didI you ever >'et a wile ? Teag. Ay that’s what 1 did,ancf a wicked w.te too.Tom And what is become ef her now ? Tt'ag.Dear ihoy, I can’t icil whether (lie’s £une to pur*gatory, or tiie parifh of P g-truntum f tor live toldme fhe would certainly uie the firil oppomuiity (hecould get, as this prelent evil war id -was not worththe waiting on, to Hie would go and fee what goodthings is in the world to come, and lb when thato.d rover called the f ver, came ranging like a mad¬man over the whole kingdom, knocking the peopleon die head with dtaciiy blows ; lire went away anddtfjd out of Ipite, . leaving me with nothing but twoI motherlefs children.Tom O but Pady, you ought to have gone toa doctor, and a gut femie puNi and phyhc for her.Toag. By fliaint Patrick, 1 had as good a pill of myown as any dotfor in the kingdom could give her*and as for fnetfhtng fee could never ule InuiT orlobicco in her lite.Tom. O you fooly that is not whst I mean}you ought to have brought the dcclor, to feel herpulle, and let blood of her if he thought needfulsTetg. Yes, yes, that’s what I d d ; for I run to theilotior wherever (he died, and fought lemc-thing fora dead or dying woman, the rid fooidb d 1 wasat his dinner, and began to alk me fime dirty quef-tiems which 1 anlwtrtd diffinCtly,Tom. And what did he >Ik of you Pady ?JWfly, he afited me how did my wile go to ft col» toI r4 iwhich T anfwprrd, tue fam ■ way that orher worr.«n!goes to a cha.r ; no, fa; J he, that is not what Imean : how does fhe purge ? Arra mr. doctor,- ha.d-I, all the lire in pih gstery wont purge her clea.i $for (he’s both a cold and {{inking breath, hir, ('<id>he, that is not what 1 a-k you, wnether does fli# Ihuethick or thin ? An a malter dodlor faid I, t is fome-times f» thick and hard, that yoQ may take it in yourhand and eat it like a piece of cheelc or ptidden, andat other times ycu nuy drink it, or fop ic with afpoon. At this he flow in a rnoit terrible rage andkicked me down Hairs, and wotdd givs me noth ngto her, but called a dirty Icoundrel tor fpe^ktngof (luteJbefore iad’es. —Tim. And was you forry when your wife died ?Ttag- Arra dear fhoy7 if- any body, had beat me Iwas fit to cry my ft If.Tom. And in what good order did you bury yourwife when (hfe died ? Tirag. O my dear {hoy, (hewas buried with ail manner of pomp, pride atid fplen-dour, a fine coffin with-cords in it, and within thecoffin along with herfilf, {he got a pair of new brogs,a penny candle, a good .hard-headed holy hammer,w’th an Irdh {ixpen.ry piece, to pay hef paiFage atthe gate, and what more could ihe look for.Tom. I really think you gave her enough iioiagwith her; but you ought to have critd for her, ifit was no more than to be in the fafhion. i e»g*And whv lh uld I cry without'(arrow ? when wehired two cries, to cry all the way before her tokeep ini the fafhion.Torm And what did they cry before a dead wo¬man > Teag. Why they cry the comtnoftcry, orfoundrel lament diac is uled in our Irifh country.Tom. And what manner of a cry is that. Pady ?Teag. Dear Tom, if you don’t know F*.l tell you,when any dies tberer is a number of criers goes be¬fore, faying, SufF, iuftj fou alilicu dear honey, whataHeth thee to die! it wa» not fur want of good 'dutyter-mi.k and potatoes.PART HI.Torn. V7I 7ELL Pady, and what did you do when! V V yoi.r wife died? Fe»g. Dear honey,1 what would I do ? do you think I was Inch a big[ tool as to d e too, I am fore it I had I would not! have got lair play, when I am not fo old yet as myf father was when he died.Toni. No Pady, it is not that I mean, was you; lorry, or did you weep fer her? ’I'eag. Weep forj Iier*. by fhamt Pati ick'l would-not weep for her noryet be iorry, fuppefe my ovvn mother, and all thewomen m Ireiano had died ftven years before 1 wasi 'horn,Tom What did you d» with your children \»h«nfile dieo ?Teag. Do you imagine I was fuch a big fool asbury my children alive, along with a dead woman ?Arra dear honey, we always commonly gives no¬thing a!oi g with a dead perfon, butati old Hurt, a' winding.ilieet, a big hammer, with a JoYig candle,and an Irjih threepenny piece. /Pom. Dear Pady, and what ufe do they make ofall them things 2 1 eag. Then Tom fince you ar*fo inquilitive, you may go-slk the prit lt.Tom. What did you make of your children «henPady ? Teag. And what fhculd 1 make of thcmrdo you imagine t’natlwoulc! give them into the hands! «>f the butchers as they had been a parcel of youngbogs ; by lhaint Patrick i had mere unnaturally inme than put them in any hofrital, as others doTorn No, 1 fuppofe you would leave them with. ycur friends ? Teag. Ay. ay, a poor man’s friendsis fometimes worle than a protefs’d enemy, the beilIritnd ever I had in the world, was my own pocketwhile my money lalttdj .but 1 left my two babesI i, - IIberwsen the prie(i sdoor arui the pirifii churchy be» Icaufe 1 thought k was a piace of roercy ; a;id then,fet out for England in quell of another fortune.Tom. And did. you not take goodnight with yourfriends or you same away ? Frag. Arfu dear honey,.I* had no’friends in ali the werid but an Irifit half-crown, .and would a been very lorry ^to part withfucii a dear pocket-companion at fuch a timeFotn. 1 fancy F,>dy you coaj’d off with what theycill a moonlhine fl.ttiug? Tear. Ybu lie like a thief-now, for I did not (be fun, moon nor Ifars all thenight, and I had travelled twenty mites all but twelve jbefore giomiog in'the morning.Tom. And where did yom go to tska (hipping?Teag. Arra dear honey, 1 came to a country villagecalled Dublin as big a city as any market-town in altEngland, where 1 got myielf lodged on bo.,rd of a ,little young boar, with a paved of fellow, and a longleather bag. 1 luppofed them to be tinkers until Icfked what they carried in that leather lack ; they f,told me,, it was the Euglifh ratal they were going, iover with, then laid I, is the nrilns lb leant in Eng¬land, that they mufc lend over their corn to Ireland |.to grind it, the com’cai cunning fellows peiiaaded .me it was fo; then I went down to a h tle hoof* vbelow the water hard by the fore back of the beat,and laid me down on their leather-lack, where I flepc j,iriyfelf aimed to death with hunger. And dear Tom, |to tell you plainly, when 1 awak’d, I did not knowwhere I was, but thought I was dead and buried, forI found netting ali around me, but wooden wallsand timber above.Tom. And how did you come to yourl'elf toknow where you was at la1l ? Teag By the lawdear flmy, I fcratch’d my-head in a hundred parts,and then fat me down to think upon it, fo I mindedit w'-s my wife that was dead and not me, and thatI was alive in the young bolt-boat, with the fcUowstthat carries over, the h+n^l fli meal from themills.Tom. O then IJady I am frre y^u was platl whenyou found youri'etf altvt ? 1 rag Arra dear l^oytI was very fure I was alive, but I did not think fftlive )onp j but I thought it was better for me to ffraland be hanged, than 10 live all my day^, a«d to diedire&ly with hunger at l*it.Torn. What { had you no Meat npr money »!qflgwith you ? Feag. Arra dear (hoy, 1 jgav? all-jaymoney to the captain of the houle, or goydinan ofthe flnp, to carry me into the (ea, or over to Eng¬land, and when I was- like to eat my old brog* forwai t of victuals, I drew my hanger fnd cut rlie ioclcof their lea her*lack, thinking 'p get a iick of theirmeal; but alilieu dear fhoy, I found nothing, meadnor feeds, but a pirct] of papers at;d leuerst a poormorfel indeed fox a hungry map.Tom O then Pady, you laid derwn yctn* honeftyrli fpr nothing ? Teag Ay, ay, I was a grtait thiefI but got nothing to Ileal.Tom. A id how did yon ccme t» get v flufh atlall ? Te.<g. Aleheu deaf heney, rjie thoughts ofn»eat a,nd drink, death and tbe, and every thing elf*,f| was out of my mind I had npt a thought but orf.Turn. And what was that P-dy ?' Teag To gQij down amongfl the fiihes and become a whale; thenI would have lived an eafy life all tny days, hav ngnothing to do but to drink fait water, and tatcal)*rcyders. , /Tom. What Pady was you like to be drownedagain ? I eag Ay, ay, drown’d as cleanly drown’das a fiih, for the iea blew very loud, and 'he windrun fo high, that we were ail cad away (afe on Ihore,and not one of us drown’d at all.Tom- And where did you go, when you cameafhore ? Teag. Arra dear honey, I was not able togo $u)y where, you might a cad a knot u» my belly.I -M1 wars fo hollow rrr the middle; fo t went loto sgentieman’s hotife, and told him the black fortuneI had of being drown’d between Ireland and the foot jof hh gardeft, where we came all fafe afhore; butall the comfort l got from him, was a wordof truth,Tom. And what was that P^dy ? Teag. Whyhe told me if I had been a good boy at home 1 neecltdnot to have gone fo far to pufh my fortune with anempty pockety to which I anfwert.d, and what mag¬nifies that, as long as 1 am a good workman at notrade at all.Torn. I fuppofe Parly, the gentleman would make |.you dine with him? Teag. I really thought I was, 1■when 1 law them reading and Ikinning fo many bbekchickens, which was nothing but a tew dead crowsthey were going to e*t : ho, ho, fdd I, them is butdry meat at the bell; of all the fowls that flies com¬mend me to the wing of an ox; but all that came'tomy fhare, was a piece of boiled herring and a roaft-«d potatoe and that was the firlt bit of bread ever*I ate in England. ,Tom. Well Pady, what bi fmefs did you followafter in England, when you was fo far ? Teag Whatlir, do you imagine f was poor when 1 came ever otjfueh an honourable condition as to lift, and bringmyfeif to no perferment at ad. I was art able-bodied man in the face, I thought to be made a briga-deer, a grenadeer, s fuftleer, or even one of themblue-gowns that holds the fiery ftick to the bung-hole of the big cannons, when they let them eff tofright away the French : 1 was as fur.? as no manalive, or I came from Cork the 'lead per ferment Icould get was to be riding-tnalVer to a regiment ofmarines, er one of the black horfe itfelf.Tom -Well Fady, you ieem to be a very cleverlittle man, to be all in one body, what height a,r«you? Teag. Axra dear /hoy, { am five foot nothing,*11 but out iiich.tTVm. Ar.<! W^ere-ia h.nRl»n<J waj'st voa ?'Arra dear (h'.y. I w*s gciog t'lro* thax li tie coumryvillage, the iamous c:ty of Ch 'frer, the Oreets w?».very lore by reafon of the bardnefs of try feet ardlariienefs of mry broys, fo I went but very flowly'acrofs the ffreets, fro® port to port is a preity lefiigway, but 1 being weary t brilight * ri orbing of it;, thenthe people came all crood^g'to me as l had been a'world’s wonder, or thr'war’.df ring jew ; for the ra'<rgblew in my face, and the wind wetied ail my bfliy^which caufed me to turn the hackfide of my coatbefore, and buttons behind, which was a good (afe-dguard to my body, and the flarvattoi) of my nakedback ; as 1 had not a good fhirt.Tom. l am lore then Pady they wo»!d tslte yoipfor a fool ? Te*g No. no, (ir thejradiuircd me formy wtfdom, for 1 always turned befoitf , when thewind blew on behind, but I wondered greatly howthe people knew my name at d where I came from,for every one told another that wa^ P«dy from Cork $I fuppofe they knew my face, by feeing my name inthe newfpaptrs.Tom. Well Pady vi'hat bufinefs did you followin Chelter.^ Teag. To be Pure 1 was rt't rle work¬ing at nothing at all until a dec, lilting fetjeant came-to town, wiih two or three fellows .long with hint,one bearing on * fiddle, 'and another playing on adrum, toiling their airs through the (treots as if theywere going to be married ; and I law them courting'none but young men ; fo ro bring myieif to ro pve-fermejit »t all, I ItUcri for a ibidier btcauffi 1 wastoo high for a grandedeer;. Tom And whst Idling mon v did you get Pady?-Trag. Arr* dear thoy. 1 got five thirteen* andpair of iungMibrogf; the guinea and the reft cf the .gold was lent away to London, to the k ng myxuafier, to buy inetiew fliins, a cockade inti com-/amon fre*fiing: for my h*t, they Tn»de roe fwear fhel Pmalicious oath of tfevilric ^gainii the king, the co¬lours and my eapt-uo, telling sne if ever I defertedand not run away, that I would bs (hot, and then Iwbipt to death through the regiment.Tom. No Pady, it is fijrft wliipt and then ftot youmean. Teag. /irra dear ftv»y, it is all one thing atlad, but it is bt(f to be (hot, and then whipt, thecovered way to die I’ll warrand y<>u,Tom How much pay did you get a Week Pady ?Teag, Do you know the little fat tall ferjeant tlwtlied me to be a ioldirrTom. Aud how (houid t know them l never fawyou fool: Tejg Dear (hoy, you may know Mm jwhether you fee dim or not; for his (ace i> all bor’din Mg hole* with the (mall pox, Msnofe is the co¬lour of a lobtter toe, and hy> chin like a well-waiher*potahre; he’s the bigeft rogue in unr kingdom, you'llknow him when he cheats vow aud the wide world,and another mark, he dights his mouth before hedrinks, and blows bU nofe before he takes a foullythe rogue height me a fixpercea day^k'llor no kilt:and when l laid Sunday and Saturday bo h together,and all the days in one day, I can*E piake a pennyabove fivepeuce of itTorp. Y«U (hpuld hay: kept an account, and afc’dyour srriurs in once a mptrh. Teag. That’s wtiac1 did< but he read a p reruofUr out of bis prayer-book, wherein all onr names is wiitren ; fp muchfor a (loprhole to' my gun, to buckles, to a pair oicotnical hurn-hufe with leather buttons trom top totoe: and word of all- he would hive no Ms tran apenny a vie k to a dqftor Arra. laid 1, 1 neverhad a fore h iger nor yer a fisK toe ail the days ofmy life, then what hive ( to do with the doctor orthe d< t'tor to do with me ?Tom And d'd he make you pay s'l thpie things?Teag. Ay, ay, pay aud better pay, he took use be--! 11 J 1 111fore his captain, who made me pay all was in hi*bonk. Arra mailer captain faid 1, yot are a comi¬cal fort of a fellow, you might as well make m«pay for my' coffin before I be dead, than to pay fora dodlor before I be fjck't to which he anfwered in« 9 paffion, firra faid he, I have fe*» many a betterman buried without a ccffin ; fir, taid I, then I’llhave a ct ffin die when 1 will, if tfere is as much>i .wood in ail the world, or I fhiH not be buried atjail; then hecalled to the fergeant, faying, You fir,go and buy that mm a Coffin, and put in the (toretill he die, and flop a fix pence-a week off his pay forit; No, no, fir, faid I, 1’li rather die wthout a cof¬fin, and feek none when I’m dead $ but if you befor clipping another lixpence off my poor pay, keep] it all to yourfelf, and I’ll fwear all our oaths ofagreement we badhack again, and then leek ioldiers'.where you will.rorn. O riien IVdy, how did ydu end the mattej ?’J’eag An a dear Ihoy, by the mights of fhaint Pa¬trick and help my own brogn, l both ended it andmended it, tm* the next n;gbt b»fore that, ( gavethem legbail for my fidelity, and then went aboutthe country a forcuno.eller, dumb and deaf, as Iwas not. v *> -Tom How old was you J^ady, when you was •fnidier lad? Ttag Arra dear honey I was. threedcsrn all but two and it is only but two years (incc,fo l want only two years of three d zen yet, andwhen I live fix dozen more, I’ll be older than i am.I’ll warrznd you.Tom ObutPady by your acemint you are threedozen of years old aUeady. Tesg. O what tor abig fool are you now Tom, when you count theyears £ lay lick * which time 1 count no tune at all.ANEW C AT E C H IS M, &c.tl’j.fe2<- ’ • •>; v’-tr * ’ l 1 C; if •. ' -* *{ l;Tom. >11 the opinions Rrcfefled In religion^V_y tell roe now Pady, of wiiat profefTi n «rcthou ? Pady. Arra dear Ihoy, my religion was too'weignty a matter to carry out of my ; wn country, ;t,1 was afraid that you Englilh Prtfbyterians ihould kpluck it away from me. ,t' Tom. VVhat. Padv, was your religion fuch a load ithat you could not csrry it along with you? Pady. ,,Yes that it was, but I carried it always about withme when at home, my Iweet crofs upon my dta^ ,bread, bound t6 my biefs’d button-huie.Tom. And wh .t -aianner of worfhip did you per- Tform by that ? Pady. Why I ador’d my crois, tn« Lpope and rhe pridt, cursM Oliver black as a crow, jand fwears'myfelt a cut-throat to aji proteitants,and church ot England-ioen.Tom And whac is the matter but you could bea ciiurch of England-man, ora Scots Prdb/teriaiiyourlelf Pady ? P*dy. Becaul'e it is unnatural foran Irilhman: but had fhairu Patrick been a Prtlbv-terian 1 had been the lame.Tom. And for w.;at reafon would you be a Pref-byterian then Pady ? Pady. Becaufe they have aliberty to eat fldh in Lent, and every thing that’slovely for the bellyTom. What, Pady, are you fych a lover of fltlhthat you would change your profdlidn for it ?Pady. O yes, that’s what 1 do, 1 iove tldh of allkinds, Iheep^s heef, 1 wine's mutton, hare's flelh andhen’s veuironr hut our religion is one of the hun-grielt in all the world. Ah J but it makes my teethto weep, and my belly to water, when I fee theScots ^rfiby terims and Engliili churchmen in timef Lent, feeding upon bulls baflards and Ihecpsjjfeuog childrert.^Tom. Why, Pady, do ye fay the bull is a forni*i»tor, and gets b,ftardi. ? Pady. Arra dear Tdioy,(■ never fi<« the cow and her hufoand all the day* ofay life, nor yet before l was born, going to theidiurch to be married, and what ..then can his Tonsijjd daughters be but baflards.It Tom. O Pady, Pady, the cow is but a cow, butirsd fo are you j but what reward will you get whenyou are dead, for punitiing you»,belly fo while you•life alive? Pidy. By lhainc Patrick I will live likei king when 1 am dead, fpr I will neither pay forraeat nor drink.i Tom. W hjt Pady do7ou think that you are toome alive again after you are dead? Pady. O yesve that are true Roman Cathoiicks will live a longjime after we are dead, when we dia in lova with(he priefts and the good people of cur proftfiion.Tom. And what afTdrance Can yoUr prieit* giveou of that ? Pady. Arra dear limy, cur prielt is,, great lhainc and a good fhoul, who can repeat aaternofter and Avamaria, which will fr.ght the veryorned devil hirntelt, and make him run for it untille be like to fall and break h's neck.1 Tom. 4nd what docs he give you when you arel ying that makes you come alive again. Pady. Why).e writfs a letter upon our tongue, fea'ed with atvafer, gives us a facratnent in our rhoutii with apardon, and direftion in our right hand who to callior at the ports of purgatory.1 T»m. And to whom do they direft the dead?(ady. Why the fcmglifh Romans, when they die, are11 d.retted to Ihnint George, the s»eots to Ihaim An-rew, the Welch to fhaint David, and our own dearountrymen muft every Ihoul of them go to fliaint'atrick ; but them that have no money to pay thefiell for a pardon, and thofe that are drown’d or/abv thcmfclves in the fidds, witbout a prifft, is*'! loft, ar,d Jew away as blackguard fcoundrels, to■Wander up and down while the world (tandg amongthr brownies, fairies, mermaids, lea-devils and wa¬ter kelpies,Tom A. id what money deftgn vou to give tb«Jmiefts for yivur pardon ? Pady. Dear fhoy, I wi/hJ had firft the money he would take for it, 1 wouldrarhef drink it tnyfeif, and then give hiyi both mybill and my honeft word payable in the other world.Tom. And how then are you to get a paffage tothat other world, or who is to carry you there ?Psdy O my dear fhoy Tom, you know nothing ofthe matter; for when I die they will bury my body,flefh, blood, dirt, and bones, only my fkin will bebi. wd up full of wind and Spirit, my dear Ihoul Cmean; and then I will be blown over to the otherWorld on the wings of the wind; and after that ffhall neiih r be kill’d, bang’d nor drown’d, nor yetdte in my bed, for when any hits me a blow# myaew body will play upon it like a bladder*''itFINIS.