Correct Accountor THJEIjife, Confession,ANDSSECITTIONOFVillm. Burke,Vho was Executed at Edinburgh onWednesday, 28 Jan. 1829.Burk, and Hare.paisley*Utd acd Sold h7 G. UldweU, No. 2, New Street.IWILLIAM BURKE.William Burke, was aged 32 or 33 years, was borin the parish of Orrey, county of Tyrone* His parents wetof the order of peasantry, but respectable in their statioiHe was educated in the Catholic faith'; but, as a worthy Itishman, of the same religion, observed to us—“ Since hicame to Scotland his person was never known to darkena chapel door.” He received good education for one of hrank, this fact is proved, in a certain degree, by the circanstance of Burke having, at one period, made considerabsums of money m the West Port, writing begging petitionBurke was originally brought up a weaver, in the town*Straban, but, tiring of that sedentary employment, he beeana baker. The board being too oppressive for his head, Ideserted the baking trade, and entered himself a privatethe Donegal Militia, in which his brother Constantine wa non-com missioned officer, and in which he himself serv«far five years. During most of that time he was a serva’to one of the officers, end acquitted himself with such prpriety as gained life respect of all whe knew him. He mtried, during the same time, a woman in Ballinha, connOf Mayo, by whom he had two children, w^o are now dea :but bis wife still survives, and resides in Ireland". Whhis regiment was disbanded, he deserted his wife and ch ,dren, and eamo io Scotland, and picked up from the strerof Glasgow tho woman McDowgal, with whom he has sir)cohabited. Her place of nativity is the Reddings in Stirliirshire; she still speaks the dialect of that place; and wbher connexion with Burke commenced, she was a commprostitute, though a married woman, and her husbandstill liviug. She has always been and still is most eloqu'ia her praises of the kindly disposition of her paramour.Soon nftsr his hnival in Scotland, he engaged as a laboj'er on the tlaioa Canal, when he came to reside in Edinlwhich was about eleven years ago; but he has been occasi3t]y aljsent from that city for long periods. He pretendedi be a cobbler, but how he learnt the trade, or whether helearnt it, is known to no one. When he was tipen theanal, he engaged in the trade of resurrectionist, and prac->ed it more or less until he entered upon the more horribleic of murder, the one, from its brutalizing tendencies, b«i»gfitting preparative for the other. Previously to 18 monthso, he lived at Peebles, and went daily to road-making inL neighbourhood of Inverleithen. Ho then came to resideHare’s house, and it was there, we believe, he was firsttinted by him in the mysteries of kidnapping and naarder.i ter having a dispute with //are, Burke went to reside in' house of a relation of the name of Brogan, the father *fwitness of that name. Brogan being unable to pay thet, Burke became tenant of the house; and It was there[t the crime was committed for which he died.Till.; CONFESSION.He was asked how long he had been engaged in this■derous traffic ? To which he answened, “ From Christ-s, 1827, till the murder of the woman Detherty, in Oct-r last. “ How many persons have you murdered or beeacerned in during that time? vVere they thirty in all?”■ot so many; not so many; 1 assure you.” “ How many?"^answeied the question, but the answer was, for a reasonectiy satisfactory, not communicated to us, and reservedja different quarter.Had you any accomplices?’—“None but Hare. Wejays took care, when we were going to commit murder,no one else should be present—that no one could swearlaw the deed done. The women might suspect what wee about, but we always put them out of the way when'ere going to do it. i hey never saw us commit any nfut ders. One of the murders was done in Broggan’sl>e, while he was out; but before ho returned, the thingfinished, and the body put into a box. Broggau erident-uspected something, for he appeared much agitated, andeated us to * take away the box,’ which we accordingly■ but he was not in any way concerned in k.”xou Lave already told me that you were engaged in tbete4atrocities from Christmas 1827 till the end of October 1828?were you associated with Hare during all that time?” “ Yesswo began with selling to Dr. the body of a woman tvbhad died a natural death in Hare’s house. We got £10. fc.it. After this we began the murders, and all the rest ot tbbodies we sold to him were murdered.”“ In what place were these murders generally committed ?)« They were mostly commited in Haies house, which w?Tory convenient for the purpose, as it consisted of a rootand a kitchen; Daft Jamie was murdered there; the stortold of this murder is incorrect; Hnre began the strugglwith him, and they fell and rolled together on the floor; theI went to Hare’* assistance, and we at length finished hinthough with much difficulty: I committed one murder ithe country by myself; it was in last harvest; all the reswero done in conjunction with Hare.”By what mean were these fearful atrocities perpetrated r 11 « By suffocation. We made the persons drunk, and the*sufibeated them by holding the nostrils and mouth, and ge Jting on the body; sometimes I held the mouth and nos 1while Hare knelt"upon the body; and sometimes Har? heifthe mouth and nose, while I placed myself upon the body !Hare has perjured himself by what he said at the trial aboil Jthe murder of Docherty ; he did not sit by while I did it, i jhe says ; he was on the bpdy assisting me with all his mighwhile I held the nostrils and mouth with one hand, an«choked her under the throat with the other; we sonaetimi jused a pillow, but did not in this case.”“ Now, Burke, answer me this question. Were you titored or instructed, or did you receive hints frem any one s jto the mode of committing murder?”—“No, except fro 'Hare. We often spoke about it, and we agreed that suft jcation was the best way. Hare said so, and 1 agreed wi »him. We generally did it by suffocation.”—Our wiformaemitted to interrogate him about the surgical instiumer; i.stated to have been found in his bouse; but this omissiiwill be supplied.“ Did you receive any encouragements commit or persVote in committing these atrocities? —“^es; we weie frqucnkly told by Paterson that he would take as many bodi'1 . , ■ . X5e could get for him. When we got one, lie always told-> get more. There was commonly another person withof the name of Falconer. They generally pressed us tonore bodies.’’To whom were the bodies so murdered sold?” To Dr.We took the bodies to his rooms in , andwent to his house to receive the money for them. Some-s he paid us himself; sometimes we were paid by kis as-nts. No questions were ever asked as to the mode inh we had come by the bodies. We had nothing to do,to leave a body at the rooms, and to go and get the mo¬stdDid you ever, upon any occasion, sell a body or bodiesiy other Lecturer here !” “ Never. We knew no other.”fou have been a resurrectionist (as it is called), I under-1 ? ’ “ No, neither Hare nor myself ever got a body outi urchyard. All we sold were murdered, save the 1st one,j h was the woman who died in Hare’s house. We hrganit; our crimes then commenced. The victims we se-, d were generally elderly personL They could be more■ ‘f disposed of than persons in tho vigour of youth.”MIS EXECUTION.us morning, between 8 and 9 o’clock, William Burke,idiuburgh Murderer, paid the forfeit of his many crimese head of Libberton’s Wynd, Edinburgh, /.s the per-approached which was to terminate his career, the ex¬tent, which has been so deep in that place, was greatlySued; and great fear was entertained that some tumul-exhibition of public feeling would he made at the ex-n. Fortunately, however, no such occurrence tookFor some cays past, tickets had been exhibited onindows in the neighbourhood, intimating them to beir the occassion at from five shillings to 1 and 2 guineas.|:e was removed from the Calton Jail yesterday moinin«-o’clock with the strictest privacy, ami was lodged itiiock-up-house behind the Parlrement Square, and in theneighbourhood of the place of execution. Here he wasi-d by the Catholic Priests, and received from them ev-ttention. The measures adopted by the authorities did6o;not afford nny opportunities to those in attendance on,to inquire any information nor did he seem inclined t<lcommunicative. He exclaimed at one time, “Otliatlhour was come, which is to separate me from the woriHe ascribed the commencement of his enormities to a I|restins, which, it is presumed, was meant the formatio;his intimacy with McDougol. On being asked on the fject of Daft Jamie’s murder, he said that Hare’s wife deced Urn into Hare’s house, and that Hare and his wife ndered him. Dining the n;ght he slept soundly for sevhours. In the afternoon, measures were begun to railportion of the street for the erection of the scaffold, & erattended the place all the time of its erection; and -ahmidnight, and in the midst of a heavy rain, the crowd gthree dicers, when the cross beam to which the rope |in¬fixed was placed in its position. By half-past six the wiiof the Lawn Market and High Street, as far as a view cc||be obtained, were crowded, as well as the windows and tof the adjoining houses; and the member was generally qmated at about 35,000. At about half-past seven o’cicthe crowd began to exhibit symptoms of impatience, 1gave a series fcf loud and long continued shouts, which t]frepeated at intervals till Burke was brought out. Abouto’clock this morning he complained to Mr. Christie,keeper of the lock-up, of the weight of his fetters, andquested that they might be taken off'. This was instarfgranted, end on holding up his leg to let them off, heclaimed, “ iSo r ay all my earthly fetters fall.” He wastended afterwards in his cell by Ids instructors, and atwas ushered into the keeper’s room, where the magistr:and others were in waiting. To this room no reporters aone belonging to an Edinburgh paper was admitted;Magistrates having positively refused their permission.Messrs.'Rtid and Stewart, the priests, administered s;consolations as his religion afforded, and afterwards Buthanked them and the Governor of the Jail for their kindito him, and particularly thanked Mr. Christie, the keof the lock-up, for his attentions. He was then piniby the executioner, and shortly after he was about to reto another apartment, but he was stopped by the execut:in "this Burke coolly remarked, “ It is not y®ur t>meAfter a short absence, he [returned, and after someer devotional exercises, was offered by one of the Mag-;es a gla* of wine. This he accepted, and on drinking“ Farewell to all my Friends.” Precisely at 8 o'clockire cession began to move up Liberton’s Wymf from thec-up, the City officers being first with their Lochaber, and the Magistrates following. Burke was next, andsupported by the two priests, and several others ot theorities followed. He was dressed in a new suit of blackes whioh had been presented to him by the magistrates,vore a white neckcloth. When the crowd discoverednovernent, consequent on the approach of the culprit-,raised a load cry of exultation, mixed with groans andi ig, from every part of the dense mass of spectators.. ;e, who had walked at first with rather a firm but some*1 undetermined step, seemed to understand the caqse-cfi ’muting—his step became embarrassed and falteiing,! his countenance displayed strong agitation. He shutyes before lie reached the hoad of the Wynd, and didipen them till on the scaffold: he seomed to be afraidle reception he might meet with from the erovyd, butas a gisted up the stairs to the platform. On his ap~ince there the shouting was renewed ; and Burke, turn-ins face towards the crowd, gave them a look of suchiful defiance, that the groans were redoubled : he thenl down with the priests, and the Rev. Mr. Marshall of-1 up a short but fervent and appropriate prayer. Evenig this period of the public devotions, the crowd con-id to shout and groan, and persisted in so doing in des-of the exertions of the Magistrates and others to keepi quiet. After Mr. Marshall finished, a few minutes! spent in conversation with the priest, during whichto seemed to be suffering dreadfully, but resumed a por-of his firmness on receiving the handkerchief Sf mount-he drop. On stepping up, he gave a singular look up-!s to the hook to which the rope was affixed,' The ex-oner then proceeded to adjust the rope, upon whichment cries were raised from every quarter, of “ Burke' Burke him." here he seemed to have lost every feel-iin£J. lie repeated, as if uieonscieualy, the words whisperijto him by the priest; his face assumed a colour as if he IIIbeen already suffocated, and he allowed his cap to be piover his face without a motion. At each step of the exceltioner’s duty, the crowd raised another shout; and whjthe cap was drawn over the face, a cry was raised to keiit off altogether. The authorities then left the scaffold, a;in half a minute the signal was given, and the drop ffl-ZTere the shouting, groaning, and hissing, became l«ucthan ever. The rope seemed to be too short, as it Was eident he had hut a very short fall, and the struggles vvhifollowed, shewed that he suffered much. 7/is hands weextended convulsively, and once or twice he was observto breathe deeply. The cry for punishment on Hare mbecame general. Bring out Hare“ Now for Hartand one continued cry was kept up many minutes. TIwas kept up at intervals till he was cut down at nine o’cloi iAt this moment the crowd called for three cheers “for b ■manit)»,” and one person from a window cried out “ ocheer more,’' and was answered by the whole crowd. Tcrowd at this time seemed greatly agitated, and fear wt ientertained for the public peace, but they were fortunateunfounded. The strong body of police, indeed, which wpresent, under the charge of Captain Stewart, would ha:quelled any riotous movement, aud the military were unc iarms in case of necessity. When the body was lowered ;to the coffin, previous to its being taken to the lock-up-hot |great anxiety was displayed by a numbers of persons to pisess a piece of the nope: and when disappointed in ththey weru content to secure a few of the shavings of whithe coffin was stuffed. It should have bees told, that it wthe intention of the authcrities to have had a psalm sung .the scaffold, and a precentor was there for that purpot jbut the idea was prudently relinquished, on observing tstate of feeling among the crowd, and the service was re idered as short as was consistent with the occasion.FINISCaldwell, Printer, Paisiej j