/ THE PLEASURESOFM A T R I M O IV Y 9INTERWOVEN WITH SUNDRYComical and Delightful Stories,WITH THE CHARMING DELIGHTS AND'RAVISHING SWEETS OFWOOING AND WEDLOCK,IN ALL ITS DIVERTING ENJOYMENTS.By Author Reid. Glasgow.GLASGOW :PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSLELERS.109.PLEASURES&C#It is a strange tiring, that people should ask ofthe fifteen comforts or pleasures' of Matrimony,as if they could he numbered; whereas I affirm,that the pleasures of matrimony are numberless.No wonder then there is nothing more desir¬ed, or even coveted, than matrimony, and thatit has been in such high esteem among all na¬tions from the beginning of the world. It istrue there has been a clamour against it; arc!many that condemn it, and cry it down, mistakeiomforts for discomforts.3And yet even those who complain the most a-gainst matrimony will allow that there are fifteen! comforts in it, and if so, though there were noimore, which yet I will not grant, who, that ismot a madman, would not marry to enjoy fifteen,'such comforts, as all the world cannot afford himi besides ? But what will such men say to wooing ?I own, indeed, it is not matrimony itself, but it isthe highway to it, and he that marries without itlooses one of the chiefest pleasures that belong toit. So that in order to treat of the pleasures ofI Matrimony, I find it necessary to begin with’Wooing.Wooing consists in a man’s pitching upon somembject of his affections of the female sex ; and it is:|a comfort, there are more maids than mankind,that he is not confined in his choice; for if oneIwill not another will. Well, having fixed uponj ;he desired she, and found out her habitation,with what her fortune is, he next equips him-| self as fine as the tailor and sempstress can make1 rim, and prepares for his address ; and it is affeasure to him to be thus rigged, to win hisair mistress. Now, whether the girls haveather or mother, uncle or aunt, there’s nonef ut will aolmit him to pay a visit to his mis-ress, when he comes in the way of matrimony.But now what a pleasure it is to be admit-4tecl to a kiss, and a gracious smile from his mis¬tress- After that he has just shewed himself,and talked idly to her about half an hour, whata pleasure is it to him at his departure to o-blige her maid with the king’s picture, whichcauses her to give such a character of him, es¬pecially if the picture happens to be set in gold,as he begets in the young woman an affectiontowards him ; which if he comes to know at thesecond meeting, it is impossible to describe thetransports it puts him into ; it inspires such joyin his breast that he can scarce tell where he is,or what he does. But at his departure, he scarceforgets to double his generosity to the maid, as ishe gives her prondse of further services to him.Nor is the young baggage worse than her word,for she too well knows her own interest : andtherefore, in about a day or two, Dear Mistress,says she, you cannot imagine where I have been jthis morning ! No, says the young gentlewoman,how should I ? Why, says she, I have been atthe conjuror’s, but you cannot think what a manhe is ! I did but ask whether such a gentlemancourted my mistress ? and casting his eyes on hisbook, he told, me he did and described him so ex¬actly, that no painter could have drawn his pic¬ture better ; and besides that, he told me that this■was the very man, and no other, whom fortune5designed for you; but 1 would not have you be¬lieve me, but go to him yourself to-morrow.The young gentlewoman hearing this, is allagog to know the truth of the matter, and havingmore mind for marriage than devotion, instead ofprayer, goes to the conjuror, and he had not beena cunning man, if he had not told her right,being instructed by the maid beforehand what tosay. Well, the young gentlewoman being satis¬fied it was the will of the stars, begins presentlyto have a good opinion of him, of which the maidfails not to acquaint him. Now judge, reader,if this is not an extraordinary pleasure; for whatcan contribute more to his satisfaction, than tofind his mistress go to the devil to make sure ofhim.But besides this, there passes many letters,and, O ! what a pleasure it is to him to ransackall the academies of compliments for fine tropesand figures to adorn his style with. But then heranswers ! how transporting they are ! how oftendoes he kiss the blotted characters! But sechow fresh pleasures crowd upon him. Just nowhe is told his mfstress will be at a dancing: inLime-street; this fans the increasing flame ; no¬thing will serve but he must be with her, andthen how he smirks and simpers; but when he seesher dance he is all over transports; how muchdoes he admire her lofty carriage: the holding upher petticoat enchants him, and the celestial mo¬tion of her buttocks make his teeth chatter, andhis heart go pit-a-pat to think what he shall dowith so much excellence! But it would take avolume to tell the pleasures of this interview; letit suffice to give him an opportunity to steal herpocket-handkerchief, and to treat her and her maidat the tavern. Nor can his mistress now refuseto let him take as many kisses as he will, whichyields him such a mighty pleasure, that he cantalk of nothing else but the purple violet, theblushing rose, and the lily’s whiteness; the phoenixnest is not so perfumed as she; and to describeher person, the riches of Mexico and Peru are fartoo mean to stand in competition with her; nay,all the dazzling jewels of the East must give wayto her superior lustre But when they havedrank of the richest wines to recompense him forall his pains and charges, his mistress condescendsto treat him, by letting him taste the charmingcherries of her coral lips, and suck from thencethe fragrant breath that far exceeds Arabia’s richperfume; which wraps him in such pleasure, thatthe young spark imagines he is in heaven. Andif the very way to matrimony be thus paved withdelight, what must the end of it be ? And trulywere it not so, do you think the country clown7would plough and harrow, yet fling away his■ sickle and flail for the love of Amarilla ? Or,would the tradesman leave his shop, but for the: pleasures that attend it ? It is this makes the} apprentice court in hugger-mugger, and valuesi not the loss of his freedom, when once captivated|j by the fair Susannah’s bright eye. So mightily:r transporting are the pleasures of wooing aboveiany other pleasures in the world.But if the pleasures of Wooing are so verygreat, then what are the pleasures of Wedding ?Consent being given, and the wedding resolvedi on, the lover has now free access to his mistress,f| and may kiss above board as much as he pleases;!the which is another vast pleasure; as it is also tofind himself the only welcome guest in the house,Iand, as it were, already innoculated into the fa¬mily. And then, it is another pleasure to hearevery one commending his choice, and telling himhow amiable and virtuous a wife he had chosen.Visitors crowd in upon him, especially of the fairi sex, asking a thousand impertinent questions,: which must needs be great pleasure for him to: answer. When is the day ? cries Mrs. Prate-a-ipace. Pray, sir, how near is your happiness ?cries Tittle-tattle. But, in the midst of theseimpertinences, what a pleasure is it to the youngman to hear his mother elect taking the woman8up, and saying, Hold, neighbours, fair and softlygoes far! she shall not be married hugger-mug¬ger ; my child shall be married according to herquality ; I am not for a stolen marriage.But we will talk no more of preliminaries, butcome to the thing itself; for all things being set¬tled, and the appointed morning come, up getsthe bridegroom, and dresses himself in all hisgaudy attire.The bridemaid hastens to the bride’s chamber,and there finds her washed, breathing nothing butessence and jessamine, and her fine Hollandsmock ready to put on; so that being dressed in atrice, she appears more like an angel than like amortal. She is scarcely dressed, but the bride¬groom is coming into her chamber, and with sub¬missive knees, adores his earthly deity, and kissesthe lillies of her white hands, and sips ambrosialnectar from her lips, and then conducts her to theroom of state, where they both stand to welcometheir invited guests—And sure this must. yieldhim much pleasure. Now, things being ready4they take coach, environed by a great crowd ofspectators, of which not one of them but mustsay something—There’s a well-matched couple,says one. There’s a lovely couple, says another.There will be sweet doing betwixt them to-night,says a third. And thus the rabble run along-, till9the church doors are shut, and keep them fromcoming any farther. The knot is luckily fixedwhich can never he undone but by the death ofone of them. And, therefore, after the ceremonyof ‘ I, John, take thee, Joan, to be my weddedwife: and I, Joan, take thee, John,’ &c. they gofrom church again, and first receive the joy of thebeggars; the bridegroom, for the grandeur of theWedding, throwing amongst them a handful ofsmall money, which sets them a-scrambling: thentaking coach, they return to the place fromwhence they set out, attended by the rabble,which is a mark of greatness.Being come into the dining-room, the guestsof course must all salute the bride, and in return,the bridegroom must salute all the young women;and this must sure be a great pleasure to him.This usual formality being over, the bride¬groom then drinks a bumper to the whole assem¬bly.By this time dinner is upon the table, and mar¬shalled with as much formality as at Lord May¬or’s feast. After the parson says grace, they fallto without farther ceremony; and here comes anew pleasure to the bridegroom, to see all theguests address their glasses to the bride, and af¬terwards to him. And it will be a pleasure extra-10ordinary to hint if he can but keep himself sobertill he goes to bed.Nor is it less pleasure to hear the discourse atthe table after the second course, when a jollyred-nosed toper, a pot companion of the bride’sfather, began, saying, Marriage was instituted ina state of innocency, nay, even in Paradise; andthat without it the church would want pastors,and the kindom soldiers to defend it.- Nay, farther, that children are blessings fromheaven, and therefore barrenness was accountedthe greatest scandal in the world among the Jew¬ish women : Aye, and by the English women too,replies a grave old matron, and I should be sonythat my young mistress here (as well for my ownsake as her’s) should be under that curse ; for Ihope ere ten months, to carry her first boy to thefount.Dinner being over, the parson blesses them;when the midwife comes to the bridegroom, say¬ing, Now, happy man, for a maidenhead; butthere is a great discretion to be used in the ga¬thering of it; it must be gently cropped for fear ofspoiling ; for if you go too boisterously to workyou’ll pull it up by the roots ; but if you doit justby degrees, it is young and tender, and you’ll findit coming.We will now suppose the afternoon worn out11i:by dancing, to the great pleasure of the specta¬tors, and the night begun, the bride is stolen a-way from the company, and put to bed; and af¬ter her, the bridegroom, now ready to consum¬mate the highest joys of matrimony : but thoughthe bridegroom now thinks each minute an agetill he reaps the longed for fruit of all his amor¬ous expectation, he is still obliged to wait withpatience ; for up comes the sack posset, whichthe women think will make the bridegroom kindand lusty too ; nor can the bride and bridegroomget void of this unnecessary ceremony, until somegood compassionate lady throw on purpose, thestocking into the posset, when she pretended tothrow it at the bride. This caused the sack pos¬set to be taken away ; which being done, it onlyremained now to kiss the women round, and sodepart whilst the bride’s mother locked fast thedoor, and took away the key, that none mightinterrupt them. They now, being both left a-lone, the bridegroom, without any doubt, im¬proves his time: and therefore let this suffice, thatthey now revel in those joys they not long beforedurst hardly think of; and for the bridegroom,as Carew expresses it,H Now his enfranchis’d hand on every side,l! May o’er her naked polish’d ivory glide;No curtain now o’er the transparent lawn.Is there before her virgin treasure drawn,Now void of all offence, he may beholdHer bosom bare, and her unbraided gold;But though he had revelled in bliss all night,yet his fair spouse’s mother came to the fair cou¬ple in the morning, to inquire how her dearestdaughter did Yet the son was first saluted withSon, how is it ? So well, said he, that I have beenthis night in Paradise. With that she put intohis hand a plate of comfortable sweetmeats, con¬sisting of eringoes &c. for his spouse and he to re¬gale themselves, which done, she fills them abowl of muscadine, and drops therein a new laidegg, which the bridegroom presenting tothe partner of his pleasure, the mother fills an¬other for himself, which, without entreating, hethen drank quickly off—But Mother Midnight,who longed to know how the bridegroom per¬formed, and how many attacks he had made onthe virgin fort, comes to the bride, and with awhisper in her ear, would have her confess, butthe lady replied only with a blush, which madethe bridegroom guess what she meant, and there¬fore told her it was an unfair question as yet ; youought, said he, to tarry till we rise ; and since weare recruited thus pray wait till the physic has13done working, and then take the whole accounttogether. Upon this, the mother and midwiferetire. But to digest what they had eaten anddrank, by taking a nap, but the drums and trum¬pets began to sound, and, in a moment, the streetwas full of benedictions to the bride and bride¬groom; and this must be another pleasure, for nowthe bridegroom, unwilling to pay the money fornothing, gets up and dances to the music ; andthis must be a great pleasure, for all the sensesare pleased at once.Now the next day is spent in being treated bythe bridemen at a tavern ;Jand now there can beroom for nothing but pleasure.The pleasure of the wedding being over—how !over, did I say ? I beg your pardon ; they are sofar from being over, that they continue while theylive together. And therefore I should say, be¬ing thus begun, they are attended by another plea¬sure, and that is housekeeping ; now time beginsto jog the bridegroom by the elbow, and tell ,him that he ought to mind his business ; forbags will soon grow empty unless filled again.And what is his pleasure now, but the busi¬ness of housekeeping, and to get all things forit. He that goes a borrowing goes a sorrowing,as the old proverb says. And sure the woman is14in an ill condition who is obliged to borrow everything she wants.Now, if she would be finer than the rest of herneighbours, it is the husband’s reputation, andthat must give him pleasure. Good housewiferyand right management make things last long. Itis indeed the honour of men to see cleanliness,nor do they love holes in there stocking heels, northat their ruffles shold hang like bell ropes : andyet they scorn to set the least stitch in them them¬selves. So, therefore, to have a wife that willtake care to have every thing done for him, mustneeds be a pleasure to him: and what if she wantsa Venetian carpet or a little china ware, surelyno man in his wits would quarrel with his wifeabout such trifles, wrhen all should redound to hisreputation : nay suppose she has a mind for a sil¬ver coffee or teapot, or a pair of silver sconces,where is the harm of it ? Certainly, the moreplate a man has, the richer he is : this oughttherefore to be a pleasure to him. And I canassure you, of my own knowledge, there are seve¬ral husbands would be glad their wives had suchtilings. Besides such things set out a room, andmake the kitchen, if the house be kept clean, havea reputation among the neighbours. There’ssuch a one’s house looks like a paradise, says one—It would do one’s heart good to look at it, cries16another. And all will grant it is the most provi¬dent way for a man to spend but little abroad,and keep the better house at home; and if so, hemay well permit his wife to entertain her friendsnow and then without prejudice to her husband’sestate ; for a glass of wine tastes as well at homeas abroad ; and a capon may be cheaper dressedin his own kitchen than at a French ordinary.And as for women wearing line clothes, whichsome object against, I say it is for the honour ofthe nation in general, and piust be a particularpleasure to the husband to see his "wife as line asher neighbours.But there is another pleasure attends uponmatrimony, and that is, if he has married a wifewho has got a relation in the country, and it is tento one but she has, for women do not rise out ofthe earth like pom pious, but their pedigrees hassomewhere or other a beginning. If the womanhas not, perhaps the man has. And whether theirrelations be by the man or the woman it is no mat¬ter ; and therefore, when they have once contrac¬ted matrimony, all their relations must be acquainted with it. And in return, they must send u/.a letter, whereon they teii him, they shall be veryglad to see them both in the country.Upon this, she willing to see her friends beforei her lying in ( for we will suppose her to be with16child already,) and the man is no less ambitiousto let his kindred see his nice choice And letus suppose the young man should have a mind togiye his wife an airing in the country, marry, Ithink it is a pleasure to him to take a frisk in thecountry for a month or two, and then to have thefour bells in the steeple set a jingling for joy, tosummon the inhabitants of the village, to stare atthe bride and bridegroom.And when they have been grandly entertainedby one cousin, to make a tour to another, andthere to have all the -welcomes renewed again,must needs be a marvellous pleasure to them both,and more especially to the husband, to see hiswife so caressed and made much of among hisfriends. But perhaps, after all this great plea¬sure, there isasad complaint that the young wo- •man is not yet with child.This much redounds to the young man’s dis^grace, and is a very great damp to the pleasuresof matrimony—But hold! not so fast, my friendpray let all things be well considered, and thehare’s foot set against the goose’s giblets, for ifthere be no children there is less charge. And yetthe pleasures of the bed are stiL the same. Theylive in the constant use of the means, and whocan tell what may come of it. Rome was notbuilt in one day. I doubt not but it is an allay17ji to many one’s nocturnal pleasures, to think uponI the charge he is bringing upon himself, by satis¬fying a little amorous itch; but when he had doneit and done it, and done it again, and finds thereit is no danger, then he falls to it without fear or| wits. Besides, there is another conveniency, theyir may live more plentifully, here are no portions toi provide for children ; when others are forced toii sell part, and sometimes all their patrimony, toi'j; provide portions for their children. /But all this does not satisfy the young woman.Iij She fancies there is some peculiar pleasure wheni|| a child is gotten, and she longs to know it. AndI what makes her the more eager is she is upbraidedby her neighbours. What! says one prating gos¬sip, are you not ready yet, neighbour ? No, noth¬ing like it, nor towards it, as I know of. Lack-a-day ! cries she again, I han’t been married thir-n teen months, and yet this child is a quarter old.Aye, says the young woman, with a sigh, youi have bestowed your time well: I have been mar¬ried near eight months, and yet there is no signIf of any thing coming. She had scarce spoke,k| before another gossip laid hold of the last wordsB How ! said she, married near eight months andd nothing coming ! believe me, there’s a fault onid one side or the other : Do you think one of myla age and complexion can be in the fault ? I know18myself so well, that I will leave all the world tojudge of me. Patience a little, cries another ofthe gang, I have known some women have notbeen with child, till they have been married twoor three years. What ! and you would have mestay so long, I warrant you ; but I will assure youneighbour you are mistaken. Just in the middleof this confabulation, in comes another, and tellsthem she had been at Mrs. Breedwell’s lyingin. How ! says another, is my neighbour Breed-well brought to-bed ? Yes, of a fine lusty boy, !replies the other. How long has she been mar¬ried ? says the young woman. About eightmonths replies the other. Adds heartiken ! cried 1she, about eight months ! Why, I have beenmarried so long myself, and do not know I amyet with child.This curious debate held them a long time,and had not been ended so soon, had not one whowas somewhat wiser then the rest come in andaddressing to the complainants, she said, Mistressthis case is difficult, but the best w7ay to receivesatisfaction is to go home, and take the exactdimensions of your husband’s instrument, as tolength and compass, and then we may be ablp toform a better judgement; but till then we cansay nothing positive. Another advised her tomake much of him, and nourish him up well19with yolks of eggs, oysters, cock stones, crawfish, lobsters, periwinkles, beef, marrow, shir-rets, with some muscadine or tent. The young| woman heard all this; but imagined all her costi would be thrown away, if she had not her fullI'j measure ; and accordingly produced it the nexttime of meeting, which, as they surveyed, filledthem with admiration, which one of them express¬ed in this manner; neighbour, there is some other4 cause why you are not got with child; if thisI be the right measure, I do swTear your husbandis a man every inch of him, and therefore mustneeds tell you that the fault is not in him.I know not how it is, said the young woman,very disconsolately, but I am sure I have giventhe exactest and truest measure—But, that thewoman might not be cast down, Come, come,4said one of the good-natured creatures, who wasitfor forwarding the business, do not be cast down,j but use means, and you may yet have childrenenough : for I know a young married couple justin your case. And, by the advice of a worthyand learned physician, the wife was got with childvery effectually. And this was the whole pro¬cess of the business:The doctor advised the husband to go into thecountry, and stay with his uncle for a fortnight,and then return home ; but he ordered it so, thatthe last day’s journey might be an easy one; andthe wife had notice of his coming, she dressed her¬self in all the gaiety she could devise; and had agood supper of light digestion, ready to put onthe table at his arrival; exposing to his view herfine ivory neck and lily bosom bare. And threehours after supper she counselled him to bed,there to take his rest awhile. Then being bothawake, he laid his hand on the mount of Venus,and talked to her all the soft things whichlove could dictate to him ; and when he by suchamorous discourses, had wrought his spirits up tothe highest pitch, then to fall on, and feast him¬self with love’s delightful dainties. In short, thedoctor’s counsel was observed to a nicety, andthe success answered their expectations : andnot themselves alone, but others too have foundits efficacious effects.Now tell me all ye enemies to Marriage, whatpleasure can a man imagine is greater than for aman thus to give his wife and himself a secret andmutual satisfaction.You will be apt to say, are these all the plea¬sures of matrimony ? I answer, No ; not one tenthpart of them ;—but my design is to delight, notto surfeit you.21ai>1THEBACHELOR’S MISERIES,Exemplified in the History ofMess John Magopico.Magopico was a country dominie, who taughtthe children the alphabet, and sung Psalms inthe Parish Kirk on Sabbath. The vocation ofsinging inspired him with a taste for poetry, andhe could compose verses for the edification ofhis neighbours, and for his own satisfaction ; asample of his poetry will make the reader wishfor more of the stock.G-d not a beast, but me did make a man,And not a Turk, but a true Christian;His Providence made me a schoolmasterNone of the meaner sort, I do aver.He was a good lad, and would lay out a littlemoney in purchasing pious hooks from travel¬ling chapmen. None of your profane Jack theGiant Killer, Lovers’ Garlands, or Wise Meno’ Gotham ; hut Experiences of Lizie Wast, aClat o’ Cauld Parritch, Peden’s Prophecies,Satar-’s Invisible World, and a Louping-onJStane tor Heavy-arsed Believers. By suchpious studies, Magopico obtained a competentknowledge of theology, and an old lady havingemployed him as her chaplain, he would exa¬mine the servants, and ask for their notes of thesermon, or let them know the difference betweena preaching and a lecture; examine who wasthe first man, and what he was made of? aboutthe serpent and satan, and the roaring lion, themeekest man, and the wisest man. He examinedthem on the ten commandments, but observed,at the same time, that they were all a dead let¬ter. After some years spent in this useful voca¬tion, Magopico obtained a kirk, more by the po¬pular voice, and the lady’s influence, than by hu¬man learning, and carnal inflence. He loved thelady’s chambermaid’s second cousin, and thechambermaid exerted her influence with the oldlady. When he had been lodged twelve monthsin the manse, he found that it was not good forman to be alone, his bed was ill made, his parritchwanted salt, his shoes were not brushed, his shirtswanted buttons, and his black stockings weredarned with white thread, his bed dirty, andswarming with fleas, his house in heaps uponheaps, and his meat crammed into the pouchesand bellies of every hungry wooer that came afterthe servants ; sheep heads could not be eaten forwool, his broth was singed, his bread mouldy, his92itiend lamb scouthered, his butter made into cats’ipaws, his cheese was swarming with mites and1 maggots, aad full of holes for the mice to playlat hide and seek. Frequent were the admoni-1 tions he had given to the maid servants, and wasstill turning them off, but the last was still theworst. For although his studies had again andagain driven him to mountains of thought, andperplexities enough to make any man rin redwud, his ears were deaved and his heart sick withcomplaints, and turmoil; plain speech and mild; (admonition had no effect with the servants, whoonly turned the worse on his hand the longer he! wanted a wife ; they broke the hinges of anger,the bands of good nature they burst in two, theyhated the door of civility, nothing was heard butthunderbolts of reproach, and poor Magopico hadto help-mate to soothe or assist him in themidst of his distresses; to attempt to talk to themof working was quite odious; na, na, they mauna’ be ladies. One had a sweetheart and she musti have her ears bored; off she sets for that purpose,; saying she was gaun to chase the cow frae the< corn rigg, so dinner was entirely neglected;another would gossip for whole hours with herneighbours, and her excuse for being so longabsent was that she had been mucking the byre,that the grape had broken, and she had to go tothe smith to get it mended. Thus they neitherwere concerned for his pleasure or his profit, andas for any respect to him, it was no more than anold horse had for his father; it was hateful tothem to plout their hands in hawkey’s calf’s cog*to hack them ; the whole of their toil consistedin trimming of their rigging, though their hullwas in a leaky condition; thus they would neither!work nor stand idle, for their mental capacitiesiwere busily employed teaching the arts of lazinessand slandering to one another, and how to tor¬ture their master, because he was a Bachelor.Thus did they continue to chatter like hungrycranes, and their tongues never lay, so poor Mag-opico was brought to a most deplorable dish ofdesolation; hanging his head, like a brewer’shorse at an ale-house door. So at last he resol¬ved to take unto himself a wife, to scold the ser¬vants, and darn his stockings, balance the ac-|counts of the housemaid, and to dress his shirtand wig, and to enjoy all the fifteen pleasures ofMatrimony.FINIS.