THEMonthly Scrap Booh,POR MAY.Be gracious, Heaven ! for now laborious manHas done his part. Ye fost’ring breezes blow 1\ e soft’ning dews, ye tender show’rs descend ;And temper all, thou world-receiving suu.Into the perfect year ! Thomsov.CONTENTS.John and Joan ; a domestic tale _ >2The Lion ; a Traveller’s tale, 3The Cock Fight, (concluded from our last) 9Cardinal Beaton, _ - ];»A Walk in May, - _ .. - 13Country Courtship, . _ . - - 21Method of making Yeast, - - - 24Garden Work to be done in May, .DUNFERMLINE :PUBLISHED BY JOHN MILn. • „ OF SCOTLAND r)p “ ; " PennyKEDitJwnJOHN AND JOAN,A Domestic Talc.Xo plate had John and Joan to hoard.Plain folk in humble plight;One only tankard crown’d their board.And that was fill’d each night.Along whose inner bottom sketch’dIn pride of chubby grace,Some rude engraver’s hand had etch'dA baby angel’s face.John swallow’d first a mederate sup,But Joan was not like John ;Per when her lips first touch’d the cup.She swill’d till all was gone.John often urg’d her to drink fairBut she ne’er chang’d a jot;She lov’d to see the angel there,And therefore drain’d the pot.When J-hn found a 1 remonstrance vainAnother card he play’d ;And where the angel stood so plain,He got a devil pourtray’d.Joan saw the horns, Joan saw the tail,Yet she as stoutly quaff’d ;And ever w hen she seiz’d her ale,She clear’d it at a draught.John star’d, with wonder petrified,His hair rose on his pate:And ■ why dost guzzle now,’ he cried,• At this enormous rate !’‘Oh, John,’ said site, ‘ am I to blame ?-—I can’t in conscience stop :For sure ’twould be a burning shame,"To leave the devil a drop 1’THEMONTHLY SCRAP SiOOK.A TRAVELLER’S TALE.What if the lion in his rage I meet ! Oft in the dust I view h 9 printed feet!And fearful, oft, when day’s declinin ; linht,Yields his pale empire to the mournful night.By hunger rous’d, he scours the groaning plain,Gaunt wolves, and sullen tigers in his train ;Before tnem Death, with shrieks, directs their way,Fills the wild yell, and leads them to their prey.”Collins.The same wave that overwhelms one man, of¬ten bears another triumphantly to the shore ofsafety. My father’s sudden death, which elevatediny eider brother from the equality on which wewere placed during the old man’s lifetime to the; summit of affluence, threw me into the lowestabyss of poverty and despair. He died without awill, and I was left pennyless and unprotected.! Young and romantic, 1 wandered from the land; of my forefathers, and for many lingering yearswas buffeted about the world, alternately rioting injoy and luxury, and reduced to the very extremesof despondency and want. Thrice have I beenshipwrecked; nine years I bemoaned my fate inthe walls of a foreig'u prison ; I have wandered,over the hot deserts of Africa, and penetrated someof the thickest wilds of the New World. My lat¬ter years afford the most extravagant contrast tothose of my dawning1 manhood and maturity.Like a mild evening, after a day of turbulent1 storms, my present peaceful occupations are ren-$ THE MONTHLYdered more dear by the contemplation of my former busy and dangerous career.I was once a guest at a marriage-feast in Southem Africa. A young man, with whom 1 ha*«contracted an intimacy during the few months thatcircumstances obliged me to tarry at the Cape aGood Hope, invited me to accompany him on ifortnight’s journey up the country, to a wealth!boor’s house, whose daughter he was going t«marry. I had nothing to do, time hung heavihupon me, and I gladly accepted his offer.We set forward in high spirits, and proceededas straight as the nature of the country wouldallow, towards our destination. My young companion knew each mountain, rivulet, kloof, anciresting-place from the coast upwards even to tinland of the Caftrees ; having been on iunumerabhbartering expeditions, to different parts of th*country, and accustomed to travel from one placeto another from his very childhood. It was orone of these journeys that he first met with th«daughter of old Hendrick Groning, and he con-ttrived to prolong his visit at the boor’s house, un-itil he won the young girl’s heart; and after oImtaining her father’s consent to their marriage,,1hastened away to Cape Town, wound up his af¬fairs, with all possible expedition, and made up hissmind to spend the remainder of his life with the)family of the boor. On these conditions onlyiwould Hendrick agree to the match ; and my,young friend was so enamoured of the descendantof the Dutch Gronings, that, with very little re¬luctance, he assented to old Hendrick’s whim.SCRAP BOOK. .5■We traversed the wilds and mountains withoutencountering any thing particularly worthy of re¬mark, and arrived in safety at the threshold of thepuffy but good humoured Hendrick GroningHe was considerably more active and industriousthan his neighbours, and had amassed a decentproperty through his superior agricultural know¬ledge and general management. He had paidseveral visits to the Cape, could read and write,and was upon the whole infinitely superior to thegenerality of those who dwelt in his district. Hecleaved to the ways of his forefathers, wore asmuch clothes, and smoked as much tobacco asany genuine Hollander on earth. He calculateda man’s sense and honesty by the love he bore tothe herb of his idolatry, and deemed him a ranktraitor or hypocritical villain who would not quaffcup for cup with him throughout the day. Themonth I spent in his house was chiefly consumedin drinking, smoking, dozing, and listening to theclumsy, matter-of-fact, every-day tales and tradi¬tions, which Hendrick’s bulky rib recounted asabsolute wonders. ^y'^riek’s passions werenever roused by liquor ; it only njitural appetite for sleep, tobacco, and silence.had very little of the young people’s company ; itwas at a season of the year when the boors can dolittle work out of doors, and Hendrick and I hadno other method of amusing ourselves than bygetting tipsy, sleeping in our chairs until thirstawoke us, and drinking and smoking again, untdslumber again stole upon us unawares.6 THE-JUONTllLYIn this rtay I pusst n entire month. From tiitlmoment I entered Heru'iriek’s house, to the day otfmy departure, I never enjoyed the full use of myreason for three hours together. At length, in ;moment of ebriety, I resolved to return, and intimated my resolution to Hendrick and his familyover a pipe. They all strongly opposed my intention, but finding me bent on going the nex■ morning, it was unanimously agreed that the nighshould be passed in drinking. My young frieneoffered to accompany me some distance homewards:even Hendrick volunteered his services for a day’sride ; 1 was besought to accept of a horse ; butsuch was my vanity and self-conceit, that I considered these proffers as indirect aspersions on mycourage and strength, and obstinately refused then!all. I had travelled over the same ground but amonth before, and thought it would be impossiblefor me to mistake the great landmarks, and myinebriety rendered me proof agninst the apprehen¬sions of danger. At length the dawn shone inupon us, and betrayed the disgusting relics of ournocturnal debauch. We hnefu.^l Into the openair, and mad' ■* nmal on some slices of the^ -x cne nippoppotamus, which looked and tastedvery much like pork. Hendrick put a lighted pipem my mouth ; and, with bis whole family, accom¬panied me to the verge of his little domain; whereprevious to bidding me, perhaps an eternal farewell,Jie gave me a few words of advice, which, he said,might he of service to me in the deserts. “Ifyou should happen to meet with a lion in yourpath, ’ said he, “don’t be daunted, but look himSCRAP BOOK. • ‘7resolutely in the face, stand as stiff as a rock, andbicker and clamour at him with all your might,jut. tut! never trust to your snaps,” continuedthe wary old man, observing me fumbling for mypistols, “ never trust to your snaps ; you may hitthe beast by chance, but it’s a miracle if you killor even disable him ; but oh! dear. Sir, if yourlead whizzss over his mane, or cleaves his toughSkm , wlthout entirely slaying him, your life isn’tworth a two hours’ purchase. Why, Sir, hell Layyou across his mighty loins, and carry you off toms den as fairly and cleverly as my galloway am¬bles away under the light body of my boy Rudolph.ou 11 never look upon mortal again. Your gravewid be the fiery maw of the terrible beast; butdon t be daunted. Sir—look fierce upon him, andj ^ % yo« ; but if you prize your existence, lethim go off peaceably and quietly when he turns hisjac.< ; don t haii him, or scoff at him in his re¬treat ; his spirit wont bear it ; an insult thrownupon a cowed and perishing enemy, is often fatallyrevenged—but dont be daunted, Sir, don’t be daun¬ted—wife—wife—bring the jar.”I quaffed a cup of mm. Ws wilie.Ins coy little girls, who apparently >.,[smuch at my departure, as they did at my coin,!...among them ; pressed old Hendrick’s hand to myheart, and after taking a warm leave of my youngfriend and his bride, departed in high spirits, itravelled along at a moderate rate for several hours;but, to confess the truth, I felt my courage sensi¬bly flagging as the inspiriting fumes of Hendrick’sstrong drink were gradually dispelled by exerciseatvl perspiration. My contempt of danger an(3tear was merely ephemeral. Mv unusual elevatioiiof heart was succeeded by the most extraordmai japrostration of spirits. I vainly endeavoured tol'rally my sinking powers, and to laugh at my fearsl] never felt so strong a sense of cowardice before illHie shades of evening were veiling the hills in ob|scurity j the boor’s place, towards which Hendnc|ibad directed me to steer, was some miles distant Ithere was no human being at hand to cheer meand Hendrick's advice to brave the lion in m»path, I felt internally certain I was unable tcfollow. At first, 1 blushed with shame at nr iterror ; but as it grew darker I gradually alteredmy opinion on the subject, and at length felt perfectly reconciled to myself, notwithstanding nr;unconquerable dismay. How fearfully did tinoccasional roaring of the prowling beasts echlaround me! I felt them smite on my heart; the)reached my soul before my more obtuse animajsense distinguished them ; the intervals betweenthem increased their effect upon me. A wikiblended, and continual peal from the throats of asthe beasts in the desert, would not have been s:terrible as thno'* pauses—those heart-quellinjiwhich elapsed between each roar. The’:afforded time to think—to reflect on the danger;!with which I was enveloped. My senses werinot altogether scared with affright. I was sensibldenough to feel the misery of my situation. Thelion, whose deep, rumbling tone I heard at a dis<ftance, had sufficient time to reach me before Iheard his voice again. His next ebullition of hunSCRAP BOOK. 9gry rage might be thundered forth within a fewyards of my side. I ran with the velocity of ahunted deer, and still felt freezing in every limb.Had a lion crossed me that night, I must inevita¬bly have fallen a prey to him ; but, by good for¬tune, I reached the boor’s house in safety, and inthe comforts of his hospitable hearth, endeavouredto forget my fears.(To be concluded in our next.)THE COCK FIGHT,A BURLESQUE SKETCH.Concluded from our . last.Of all the feathered warriors assembled on thisi eventful day, only three had shewed an aversionI from appearing on the field of strife. However,I by flying from danger, they rushed upon inevitablei destruction j for they immediately suffered ani ignominious death ; and after being immolated,i were exhibited to public vicwj us umwui iii^I to live in a society which their cowardice had dis-] graced. Of the rest, not one had letired from the« scene of action without obvious marks, and pain¬ful recollections, of the service in which he had; been engaged.(Some had lost an eye; others had brokenwings j their plumage was stript elf; their limbsand wounds were now sore and stiff with fatigueand clotted blood.—Yet such was the spirit of theiri masters, that they were again brought forth to af¬ford them sport; again they were placed in the| piti not in pairs, but old and young, veteran and10 THE MONTHLYraw recruit, in one promiscuous crowd, where they\'mg\\tpdeniclv, tearing-open their closing wounds,to the great delight of the spectators, who termedthis a battle royal, and expressed great satisfactionin this humane and rat onal amusement.The dead, the dying, and the wounded, werenow removed from the scene of action ; and thosewho had set them on, forgetful of all their suffer¬ings, exhibited an apathy similar to the general atthe siege of Frederickshall, who, after a bullet froman unknown hand had levelled his hot-brainedmaster, Charles XII., coolly said, ‘ My lads, theplay is over, let us go to supper'!’An emigration now took place, from the malt- ■barn to Jonathan’s dining-room ; and, as if theirferocious spirits were not yet satiated, they deter¬mined to imitate the rudest barbarians, by feastingon the victims of the day.The feast of sculls (as it might be termed)was spread, the victims were devoured, and theirhones lay scattered around. All discussion of the-  v ij |men, nan been suspended bythe pleasures of mastication. Now that the tablewas cleared, and a howl of rum punch smoking be¬fore them, many were the belts to be decided, anddifficult to he adjusted were the claims for martialhonour. Among these last, the most dubiouswere, those of the black champion and the,speckledwarrior.1 he point seemed to turn upon these two things,which of the two gave the last stroke, or fell firston the floor; and here there was a considerabledifference of opinion. A great majority affirmed.SCRIP BOOK. 11that they rushed forward and met each oilier—that the shock of their collision produced immediatedeath to both, and that at the same instant theylay lifeless on the floor. But there were a few,who, either from observing mote keenly, or beinginterested in the catastrophe, were, of a differentopinion. One affirmed, that the black hero madethe greatest progress in his advance to meet theenemy—that he came up in quick march, whilethe other advanced in slow time ; hence it wasevident, that, allowing that they had both startedat the same instant, one shewed more eagerness torthe fight than the other.Another asserted, that the party-coloured war¬rior gave the last stroke. A third, that tire cham¬pion in armour only fell in consequence ot his an¬tagonist tumbling over him, when no longer ableto stand. Disputes were multiplied, and “ of theirwrangling seemed no end.”Some writers on the human constitution haveaffirmed, that both body and mind are influencedby the nature of the aliment taken into the stomach.Be this as it maw the doctrine appeared plausibleenough on the present occasion ; for, as the argu¬ments were protracted, the wrath of the parties in¬creased. From high words, threats followed ;gesticulations succeeded, which were answered withproud defiance. At length, as if the spirits of themurdered warriors had been inhaled by the com¬pany, and incorporated into their system, they tillat once proceeded to blows. The combatantswere arranging themselves on different sides, andpreparing fot a regular systematic action, for as13 THE MONTHLYyet it had been only slight skirmishing among some:of their leaders, particularly Clover senior and old)Anvil ; the different allies had begun to fall in, andiia few missile weapons had been played off', when asbottle, aimed at Anvil’s head, took the candle in iits way, and lodged it in the pocket of Tom theijoiner, who happening to have a small quantity o£igunpowder there, in a piece of brown paper, thesaid powder, now, in imitation of the company,hurst forth in a blaze ; but luckily did no seriousharm, further than singeing Tom’s whiskers ; un¬less we add a contingency, of which it was doubt¬less the occasion, namely, that Arthur Clod, in hishurry to escape from the blaze, attempted to jumpon the table, but coming short, stript the skin fromhis shins, and overset the table; by which accident,a latge decanter of water was thrown topsy turvy,and the contents, by the law of gravity, descendedon the floor ; but in its passage, a very considera¬ble quantity lodged in the small-clothes of a lustyfarmer, who sat contiguous. Its temperature be¬ing rather beyond blood heat, produced him nosmall uneasiness ; but the present was not a timeto make noise about a trifle. Wheu the table wasoverturned, the remaining candle went along withit, and being unaccustomed to burn on a floor, ina horizontal position, it went out in a pet.All was now dark, but still the battle raged withnnremitted fury ; the missile weapons were on thefloor, and several of the company lay beside them.Blows were dealt at random, and few of them fellineffectual. Some, who still kept on their legs,endeavoured to get cut, and when obstructed inSCRAP BOOK. 13(heir egress, laid about them lustily. Several dogswere in the room, who, more sagacious than theirmasters, had hitherto preserved a placid disposition;but, amidst the din of arms, some one trode on thepaw of a mastiff, with no gentle pressure ; hegrowled resentment—it was echoed by another,and a canine battle commenced. Those who layon the floor still kept up the row : they kicked,pinched, scratched, pulled hair, bit noses, andboxed at random : clothes were torn, hats tossedon the fire; execrations were uttered, or ratherbellowed ; dogs howled, and every moment pro¬duced ‘ confusion worse confounded.’ A sly oldfellow, an excise officer, who sat in a corner, andhad hitherto taken no part, thinking it wrong tobe idle when every one was so actively employed,and recollecting the proverb, that ‘ water separatesdogs,’ snatched the kettle from the side of the fire,and, guessing from the uproar where the crowdwere sprawling thickest, discharged its contentsamong them. The passage out was now clear,some ran, others walked, and not a few crawledout upon all fours. The landlord, hitherto afraidtO enter, came \>illi lights » Late, Lnnn^te.shoes, &c. were wanting, some torn, some burnt;decanters, bottles, glasses, &c. strewed the floor :black eyes, bloody noses, and wounded cheeks,bespoke the Valour of the combatants. One hada dislocated thumb, and another had left a couploof his fore-teeth on the field of battle.rl hey had just concluded a truce, when Fame,having already spread the report of the battle fromone end of the village to the other, men, women,14 THE MONTHLYand children, collected, and besieged the doors ofthe inn ; some alarmed for their husbands, othersfor their sons, and not a few wishing to enjoy thefun. Among the tirst who arrived, was AirsAnvil, whose husband and son were both engaged;—an Amazon in strength and courage, and aXantippe in clamour and volubility of tongue. Sheentered the house before hostilities had fairly ceasedbetween her loving spouse and Clover senior : herhusband was bleeding profusely -at the nose, andthe blood, ditl'using itself over a beard, bushy, black,ami nearly of a week’s growth, rendered his ap¬pearance ruefully picturesque. His brawny listwas clenched opposite to Clover’s teeth ; when,with the fury of a tigress, Ins wife sprung uponthe hapless farmer, indenting his cheeks with hertalons, and closing the attack with a most redoubt¬able blow on his mouth, which had the immediateeffect of exhibiting his face in the same colour asthat of Anvil.Obstreperous din, scolding, clamour, crying, andhysterics, now had the effect of recalling the scat¬tered senses of the combatants ; who united theirpowers of rhetoric in porpuuding the fcumles towithdraw. Most of them took the hint ; butMrs Anvil, determined to enjoy—what site con¬ceived a woman’s privilege—scolding, began toexercise her lungs, much to the amusement of themob. Her husband tirst entreated, and then com¬manded her to be silent and withdraw, which onlytended to increase her foul-mouthed vociferation.Honest Vulcan, justly offended with this contemptof conjugal authority, seized her in his arms, car-SCRAP BOOK. 15ried her to a pond at a small distance, and sousedher over head and ears ; when she lifted her head,he asked if she was now willing to walk homequietly, assuring her she should lie there till sitegave her consent. A few minutes cooled downher wrath ; her husband assisted her to rise ; andshe walked oft in sullen silence. Ihe mob wereprevailed upon to disperse, and the.company se¬parated soon after.The human mind is a compound of most hete¬rogeneous principles. liad any one accused me,of feeling pleasure in the sufferings or misfortunesof my fellow-creatures, or even of being negligentor indifferent in my endeavours to promote thehappiness of my species, my lieArt would have war-- ranted me in denying the charge. \et candourobliges me here to confess, that the foregoing cir¬cumstances, when related, gave me no real con¬cern ; perhaps, I was not sorry to hear them.And I could not refrain from saying to myself,“ Well, this comes of despising my advice 1”Scottish Probationer.C ARr>INA Ij beatok.Tins dignitary of the Romish church was assassi¬nated on the Si8th of May, 154-6. He was pii-mate of Scotland, over w hich he exercised almostsovereign sway, Just before his death lie got in¬to his power George Wishavt, a gentleman bybirth, who preached against Romish superstitions,and caused him to he condemned to the stake forheresy. The cardinal refused the sacrament to Ins*^ THE MOXTHLYvictim, on the ground that it was not reasonableto allow a spiritual benefit to an obstinate heretic,condemned by the church. Wishart was tied to utree in the castle-yard of St. Andrews, with bagsof gunpowder fastened about his body. The car¬dinal and prelates were seated on rich cushions Jwith tapestry hangings before them, from whencethey viewed the execution of their sentence. Thegunpowder having exploded without ending' Wish-art s bodily - sufferings, the inflexible reformer ex-c'aimed from the fire, “ This flame hath scorchedmy body, yet hmh it not daunted my spirit: buthe who from yonder high place beholdeth me withsuch pride, shall within a few days lie in the sameas ignominiously as now he is seen proudly to resthimself.” After these words, the cord that wentabout his neck was drawn by one of the execution¬ers to stop his breath, the fire was increased, hisbody was consumed to ashes, and the cardinalcaused proclamation to be made, that none shouldpray for the heretic under pain of the heaviest ec¬clesiastical censures. If the church, said thepriests, had found such a protector in former times,silo hud mninOtincf lior authority-j but tile cardinal’scruelty struck the people with horror, and JohnLesly, brother to the earl of Rothes, with NorinandTesly, the earl of Rothes’ son. (who was disgustedon account of some private quarrel,) and other per-sons of birth .and quality, openly vowed to avengeW ishart’s death. Early in the morning they en¬tered the cardinal s palace at St. Andrews, whichhe had strongly fortified ; though they were notabove sixteen persons, they thrust cut a hundredSCaAP BOOK.tra(!ej*ni«n and fifty servants*, who.n they seizedseparately, before any suspicion arose of their in¬tentions; and having: shut the antes, they proceededvery deliberately to execute their purpose on thecardinal. Beaton alarmed with the noise which heheard in the castle, harricadoed the door of hischamber hut finding'that they had brought fire inorder to force their way, and having obtained, as isbelieved, a promise of life, he opened the door ;and reminding them that he was a priest, he con-juied them.to spare him. Two of them rushedupon him with drawn swords, but a third, JamesMelvil, stopped their career, and bade them reflectthat this work was the work and judgment of God,and ought to be executed with becoming delibera¬tion and grav'ty. Then turning the point of hisswcrd towards Beaton, he called to him, “ Repentthee, thou wicked cardinal, of all thy sins and ini¬quities, especially of the murder ot Wishart, thatinstrument of God for the conversion of theselands: it is his death which now cries vengeanceupon thee : we are sent by God to inflict the de¬served punishment. For here, before the Almigh¬ty, I protest, that it is neither hatred of thy per¬son, nor love of thy riches, nor fear of thy power,which moves me to seek thy death ; hut only be¬cause thou hast been, and still remainest, an obsti¬nate enemy to Christ Jesus, and his holy gospel.”Having spoken these words, without giving Beatontime to finish that repentance to which he exhortedhim, he thrust him through the body, and the car¬dinal fell dead at his feet. Upon a rumour thatthe castle was taken, a great tumult arose in thethe monthlylity ; and several partisans of the cardinal arnie^ Ithemselves with intent to scale the walls. When ithey were told of his death they desisted, and the *people insisting upon a sight of the cardinal’s body, ,is corpse was exposed to their view from the very i.same place wherein he sat to behold the executionof George* Wishart.A WALK IN MAY.I chanced to rise very early one particularmorning this summer, and took a walk into thecountry, to divert myself among the fields and mea¬dows, while the green was new, and the flowers in.their bloom. As at this season of the year everylane is a beautiful walk, and every hedge full ofnosegays, I lost myselt with a great deal of plea¬sure among several thickets and bushes that werefilled with a great variety of birds, and an agreea¬ble contusion of notes, which formed the pleasantestscene in the world to one who had passed a wholewinter in noise and smoke. My pleasure, how¬ever, was somewhat interrupted by the appearance tothe windward of me of a black cloud falling to theearth in long trails of rain, which made me betakemyself tor shelter to a house which I saw at a lit¬tle distance from the place where I was walking.As I sat in the porch, I heard the voices of twoor thiee persons, who seemed very earnest in dis¬course. My curiosity was raised when 1 heardthe names of Alexander the Great and Artaxer-xes • and as their talk seemed to run on ancientheroes, I concluded there could not be any secretSCRAP BOOK. 19in it; tor which reason 1 thought I might veryfairly listen to what they said. After several pa¬rallels between great men, which appeared to mealtogether groundless and chimerical, I was sur-piised to hear one say, that he valued the SlackPen ice more than the duke of Pevdcsme. Howthe duke of Vendosine should become a rival of theBlack Prince, I could not conceive : and was morestartled when I heard a second affirm with greatvehemence, that if the emperor of Germany wasnot going off, he should like him better than eitherof them. He added, that though the season wasso changeable, the duke of Marlborough was inblooming beauty. I was wondering to myselffrom whence they had received this odd intelli¬gence ; especially when I heard them mention thenames of several other great generals, as the princeof Ilcsse, and the king of Stoeden, who, theysaid, were both running away. To which theyadded, what I entirely agreed with them in, thatthe crown of Prance was very weak, but that themarshal Vdlars still kept his colours. At lastone of them told the company, if they would goalong with him he would shew them a Chimney¬sweeper and a Painted Lady in the same bed,which he was sure would very much please them.The shower which had driven them as well as my¬self into the house, was now over ; and as theywere passing by me into the garden, I asked themto let me be one ef their company. The gentle¬man of the house told me, if I delighted in flowers,it would be worth my while ; for that he believedhe could show me such a blow ai tulips as was not20 THE MONTHLYto be matched in the whole country. I acceptedthe offer, and immediately found that they hadbeen talking in terms of gardening, and that thekings and generals they had mentioned were onlyso many tulips, to which the gardeners, accordingto their usual custom, had given such high titlesand appellations of honour. 1 was very muchpleased and astonished at the glorious show of thesegay vegetables, that arose in great profusion on all Ithe banks about us ; but my agreeable sensations awere a little abated by observing the company of-ten seemed to laugh at me. I accidentally praised ia tulip as one of the finest I ever saw, upon whichthey told me it was a common FooVs Coat.Upon that I praised a second, which it seems wasbut another kind of Fool’s Coat. I had the same *ifate with two or three more; for which reason I Idesired the owner of the garden to let me knowwhich was the finest of the flowers, for that I wasso-unskilful in the art, that I thought the mostbeautiful were the most valuable, and that those iwhich had the gayest colours were the most beau¬tiful. He told me, that he valued the bed offlowers, which lay before us, and was not above ]twenty yards in length and two in breadth, more ithan he would the best hundred acres of land in |England; and added, that it would have beenworth twice the money it is, if a foolish cookmaidof his had not almost ruined him the last winter, !by mistaking a handful of tulip roots for aheap of :<onions, and by that means, says he, made me a 6dish of porridge, that cost me above a thousand Ipounds sterling. He then shewed me what heSCRAP BOOK. glthought the finest of his tulips, which I found re¬ceived all their value from their rarity and oddness,and put me in mind of your great fortunes, whichare not always the greatest beauties. I have of¬ten looked upon it as a piece of the greatest hap¬piness, that I have never fallen into any of thesefantastical tastes, nor esteemed any thing the morefor its being uncommon and hard to be met with.Ta tier.COUNTRY COURTSHIP.In no other country is the great and engrossingbusiness of courtship conducted in so romantic amanner as among the rural swains of Scotland.Excepting among the higher classes, who havetime entirely at their own disposal, night is theseason in which rural ‘ lovers breathe their vows/and in which their rural sweethearts ‘hear them/Let the night be ‘ ne’er sae wild/ and the swain‘ ne’er sae weary,’ if he has an engagement uponhis hands, he will perform it at all hazards ; hewill climb mountains, leap burns, or wade rivers,not only with indifference, but enthusiasm ; and*wrapped in his plaid, he will set at naught the furyof the elements, the wrath of rivals, and the attacksof the midnight robber.I have known several instances of young men,who toiled all day at the plough, the harrows, orthe scythe, walking fifteen miles to see their sweet¬hearts, after the hour of nine in the evening, andreturning in time for their work on the ensuingmorn. And this, be it observed, was not doiiegO THE MONTHLYonce or twice, but repeatedly—week after week,for several months. Twenty miles of a journey,upon an errand of such a nature, is regarded as atrifle by many a young farmer who has a sparehorse to carry him.During these stolen interviews, if a mutual at¬tachment subsist between the parties, another assig¬nation is always made, and never was oath morereligiously kept than is this simple compact, rati¬fied by no other ceremony than a parting kiss, ora tender shake of the hand. Time appears to haveleaden wings with both, until the hour of meetingagain arrives ; and then the swain sets out anewwith alacrity, be it rain, sleet, snow, murky, ormoonlight. His fair one, true to her trust, has bythis time eluded the vigilance of father and mother,of maid or man servant, and has noiselessly liftedthe latch, undrawn the door-bar, or escaped by thewindow, and awaits him with fond impatience atthe favourite spot, which they have consecrated totheir love. He joyfully beholds her in the distanceas he approaches, gliding like an apparition fromthe house, and sauntering about until his arrival ;and she, not less attentive to every thing that isstirring, perceives him like a shadow amidst thedistant dimness, watches him as his figure becomesmore distinct, recognises his gait, his air, his everypeculiarity, and at last, on the strength of her con¬viction, runs to throw herself into his antis, andbid him welcome.In this way courtships are so secretly conducted,that it is frequently never known, excepting amongthe nearest friends of the respective parties, that aSCRAP BOOK 23couple are more than commonly acquainted, untilthe precentor, from his seat upon Sunday, publishesthe bans of their marriage. People are extremelyfond of discussing topics of that nature,—of scru¬pulously weighing the merits of each party in thebalance,—of dropping oblique hints, and sly insinua¬tions,—and of prying, with impertinent curiosity,into motives and conduct—some of them for tbesake of indulging an envious or malevolent dispo¬sition, and others from a hope of discovering someflaw or failing which may keep their own in coun¬tenance, and save them from the appearance of sin¬gularity. For this reason it is always deemed amost fortunate and happy event should two lovershappen to bring matters to a crisis before the pub¬lic ears have begun to tingle w ith a leport of theirintentions. 1 hen it is only a sudden buzz, whichgradually dies from the moment of their marriage,after w hich they are left, with characters unsifted,to pursue their matrimonial course in tranquillity.But perhaps the fair one’s charms have been sopowerful as to draw around her a crowd of admir¬ers ; and in that case, neither the courtship nor themarriage can be accomplished in a corner. Thefavoured suitor has almost on every occasion tomake his way, either by force or stratagem, to thedoor, the window, or whatever place he and his lovemay have appointed as the scene if their meeting.She, pestered by crowds of others—who, thoughvoid of hope, still continue to prowl about for thepurpose of molesting the more fortunate—can rare¬ly escape from the house, or admit her lover into it,Avithout being seen, and teased with importunities, or24 THE MONTHLYtaunted with the name of him upon whom shehas set her heart. In this way some of the mostwonderful hits, and misses, escapes and seizures,take place at times that ever were known in the artof manoeuvring ; and the intuitive quickness withwhich she can distinguish the true from the false voiceamong many that whisper at her window in thecourse of an evening, almost exceeds credibility.Traits of Scottish IAfe.METHOD OF MAKING YEAST.The following method of making yeast for bread is easyand expeditious. Boil one pound of good flour, a quarterof a pound of brown sugar, and a little salt, in two gallonsof water, for an hour , when rrilk warm, bottle and corkit close ; it will be fit for use in twenty-four hours. Onemutchkin of it will make eighteen pounds of bread.GARDEN WORK IN MAY.Sow cabbages, cauliflowers, and savoys, for a late crop,and transplant those formerly sown, when ready. Sowfull crops of French and Turkey beans, marrowfat, andother kind of pease. Every week during the summermonths sow lettuces, &c. for a constant supply of salad.Earth up celery, and thin carrots, onions, turnips, andspinage, where necessary, taking care to leave the stron¬gest plants. Plant cucumbers under hand glasses. Water,in dry weather, young fruit trees, and protect the rootsfrom the heat, with short grass laid found the stems.Cut box edgings. Nail up young shoots of wall-trees,and tie espaliers with twigs of the golden willow. Removeplants out of the green-house, and place them in a shadysheltered border, observing to water them daily.May 1 st. ho. m. - May 30/A. ho. rn.Day breaks. 2 7Sun rises, 4 37 Sun rises, 3 od sets 7 23 —sets,   U dTwilight ends 9 53