The Adventures ofJohn o’ Badenyon,In Purfuit cf Happ'r.th. / r.T'j which erf ceded i V''NThe Matrimonial Song,A Nr DThe TVirifh Tar.( oJOHN o’ BADEN YON.f'-A-'VWhin firft I carae to ba a mancf twenty years or fo,I thought myfeif a handforre youth,and fain the world would know;In bell attire I ftept a: road,with fp ritJ br.ik and gay,And here and there, and- every-where,was like a morn in May.No cares I had, nor fears of want,but rambled no and down,And for a beau I might have pafs’din coun rv or in own ;Hull was pleas’d w here-e?er I wen",.,and when I wks alone,I tun’d my pipe, and pleas’d myfeifwi’ John.o’ Badenyon.Now, in the days of youthful primesa.miflrefs I rnult find,.j?or love, I heard, gave. one. an air,,itful sy.’a iniprcv’d the-dind,,{ 3 )I'On-Phillis fair, among the reft,kind Fortune fix’d my eyes,i Her piercing beauties flruck my heart,and flte became my choice.’ To Cupid now, with hearty pray’r,I offer’d many a vow;. And danc’d, fung, &. figi.’d, 8t fworejas ocher lovers do:! But when at laft I breath’d my flame,I found iter cold as ftor e ;( I left the girl and tun’d my pipeto John o’ Badenyon.( When love had thus my heart beguil’d,i with foolifh hopes *r.d vain,' To friendfhip next I fleer’d my courfe,and laugh’d at lovers’ pain :t A friend I got by lucky chance,’twas fomethinj like divine,j An honefl friend’s a precious gift,and fuch a gift was mine,i And now, whatever might betide,a h*ppy man was I;| Jn any ftrait I knew to whomI freely might apply;( 4 )lie laugh’d, and fp-urn’d my moan;I hy’d me home, and tun’d my pipeto John o’ Badenyon.Methought I Tnoiild be wifer next,and would a Pa riot turn ;Began to doat on Johtmf Wilkes,and cry’d up Parfdn Horn ;Their noble fpirit I admi' ’d,.and prais'd their manly zfcsal,Who had with flaming tongue and pen4maintain’d the public weal.But ere a month or two w»s pafl>I found myfelf betray 'd,’Twas felf and p'arty after all,for all the llir they made :At hft I Taw the fafilous knavesinfult the very throne;I curs’d them all, and tun’d my pipeto John o’ Badenyon.What next to do I mus’d a while,ftill hoping to fucceed :I pitch’d on books for company,and gravely try’d to read:\e 5)and Hudied r.v, he land dsv,Nor rnifs'd uha* Dean or DoStcf Vvrote,that happen’d in my way.Philofophy I now efteem'dthe ornament of youth,And carefully thro’ many a pageI huhted Rafter (ruth :A thoufaud various febemes I try’d,and yet was pleas’d with none :I threw them by, and tun’d my pipeto John q’ Badenyon.And now you your.?‘fltrs, eV^ry one,that wifh to make a Ihow.Take heed in tin?e, ncr fondly hopefor haopinefs below :Wi at you may fancy pleafure here,is but an empty name :And girls, and friends, and hooks alfo,you’ll find them all the fame.Then be advis'd, and warming takfefrdnt fuch a man as nve,I’m neither Pope, nor Cardinal,npr one of high degree ;( 6 )You’ll.meet difplenfure ev’ry-where:then do as I have done.E’en time your pipe, and pleafe yourfsjfwi’ John o’ Badenyon.THE MATRIMONIAL gONG.O that I had ne’er been married!I wad never had nae care :;But now I’ve gotten wife and bairns,and they cry crowdie evermair.Ance crowdie, twice crowdie,three times crowdie in a day :Gin ye crowdie ony mair,ye’ll crowdie a’ my meal away.Waeftt’ want and hunger fley me,glowrin by the Italian en*:S^ir 1 fight them at the door,but aye I’fn eerie they come beii.^Ance crowBie, St:..1 : - jL%« •*( 7 )-THE BRITISH TAR.CoziE ail you thoughUcfs ycuag '.nentand a warning take by me',And never leave your native homesto plo igh the raging fea;For I have plong’d the rag'ing fea,thefe twenty years and more,..But now Pm turned adriftto itarve on my native fhore.When war firfl a {Tailed us,I quickly left my trade.My country was in danger,I flew to lend my aid.And in my country’s fervice,lang, lang fatigues 1 bore.But now I *m turn’d adrift,to tlarve on ray native lhore»By dorms and raging tempefts,.three times I have fitrpwreck’d been,'.And many. * blood: battle:upoa' ttte leas Uvs feeji 0;... -‘i( a )."V v,. \ ■ r'/'V?1 have ft-en the canon’s gl inng flafll,and hear-d'th« murdering roar,But now i am turned adrift,to rarve on my. native Ihore.The Bruifi) Searnen’s valourto all the A.orld is knev/n,We conquer a. I a-djere’er we go,th - L-ct ou’? ail our own.The Merer *. -g of haughty GatiJ,triuniphautty we bore ;But now we are turn’d adritt*,to ll.irve on our native ihore.Shouiti hnllile fi.ets e'er venture,to ihil the racing main,True hearts of oak we British d'arswe’h pu h the.:, b< ck again ;V7ehl bravely brine their {hips to port,as w e h ve done b.-fore ;So help us w hen we are in wanton our own native iltore.F I N 1 S