THEVAGE and LIFE fO F■''CNM A N:O R,AA fhort Defcription of the NATURE,RISE, and FALL, according to theTwelve Months of the Year.TO WHICH ARE ADDED,I’LL NEVfR LOVE TH? E MORE.HENR Y’S COTTA Gf-M AID.G L A S G O W,PRINTED E \ j, & M. ROBERTS OK,S A L T M A K K E IVx&chTVLAWPThe AGE and LIFE of MAN,TUNE- — ISLE OF KELL.F TPON rhe fixtecn hundredth year,V of God, and fifty threeFrae Chrifl was born that bought us dear,as writings teffifie.On January the fixteenth day,as i did ly alonejWith many a figh and fob did fay,making an heavy moan.Dame Nature, the excellent bride,did fland up me before,And faid to me, thou muft provide,this fife for to,abhor:Thou fees what things are gone before,experience teacheth thee,In what ftate that ever thou be,remember, man, to die.Of all the creatures bearing life,recal back in thy mind ;Confider how they ebb and thriveeach thing in tbeir own kind.Yet few of them have fuch a (train,a* God hath giv’n to thee:Therefore this leffbn keep in mind,remember, man, to die.( 3 )Man’s courfe on earth I will report,if 1 have time and fpacc;It *iay be long, it may be Ihcrt,as God hath giv’n thee grace:His nature to the herbs compare. that in the ground ly dead.And to e-ach moneth add five year,and fo we will proceed.The fvrft five years then of man’s life,compare to JanuarIn all that'time but Hurt and ftrife,he can but greet and roar:So is the fields of flow’rs all bare,^ by reafon of the froft ;Keeping the ground both foft and foundyet none of them is loft.So to years ten, l ftnll fpeak then,of Gebruar but tack.:2 he child is meek, and weak of fp’rit,. nothing can undertake,so all the ftow’rs for lack of fhow’rs,no fpringing up can make.Set birds do fing, and praife their King,and each one choofe their mate.Then in comes March that noble arch,with wholefome fpring and air,lie child doth fpring to years fifteen,with vifage fine and fairo > te how rs with io.tning fhow’rsay fpi ing up as we lee j( 4 )Yet neverthekfs, letnember this,that one day we mult uie.Then brave April doth fweetiy Me,the flow’r* do fair appear.Tb^- child is then become a mac,. to the age of twenty year.If he be kind and well inchn a,and brought up at the ichool,Then men may know if he fort ow,a wife man or a tool-Then coraeth May, gallant and gay,when fragrant flow’rs do thrtvc.The child is then become a nun,of age twenty and five *,And tor his life doth feek a wde,his life and days to ipend.Cbrift from above fend peace and love,and grace unto the end.Then cometh June with pleafant tune,when fields with How « ar« clad.And Phabus bright is at his heigl t,ail creatures then are ten,Then he appears of thirty years,v?ith courage bold and dout,RW nature fo makes him to go,of death he hath no doubt.Th.njul, comes wiAto hot Calms,and confiant m his kind ,The man doth thrive to thirty-five,then fober is in mind.\ 5 JHis rhildren (mall do on him call,and breed him Hurt and tW ;His wife may die, and fo mult hego fcck another wire.Th.-o Au^uft old, both (lout and boldwhen flow'rs do Uoutly ftandSo man appears to fertv y*.a.s,witn wifdom and command :And doth provide hi§ houfe to guide,cnildren and tamiUe:Yet do not mif t’remembcr this,that one day thou mult die.September then comes with his train,and makes the flow’rs to fade,.Then man believe is torty-fave,grave, couftant, wile and fad;When he looks on how youth is gone,and fhail it no more fee;Then may he fay, both night and day,have mercy. Lord, on me.October’s blaft comes in with boads,and makes the flow’is to fail.Then man appears to fifty years,old age doth on him cah:The almond tree doth flounih hieand pale grows man we fe« ;Then it is time to ufe this line,remember., man, to die.November air maketh fields bare,of fiow’rs, of grars and corn jThen man appear to fifty-fife ytarsana fick both e’en and morn ’Lotas legs at,,1 thighh without difeafemaker hmt to figh and fay, ^Aand lea n°" h;gh haVt a,ir‘d on "te,ana learn ins for to die.D m'krb<Cr/d' b°th "“P antiTu” k ^ow, rs cr^p in the groundThen man s threefcore, both lick and fc-no foundnefs in him found •a'lT rand CCn and tceth of banc,ad thefe now do him fail,m.ay bt* fay, both night and daythat death fhairhim affail.And if there be-thro’ nature ftrong,Or^h tha‘ 1Ve, ren' yrars more j g’Or d he errepeth up and downtill he come to fotirfeore 5iet a11 th»s tune is but a line,no pleafure can he feeThen may he fay both ni*bt and dayhave mercy. Lord, on me.Thus have I ft own you as f can,the cotrrfeofa11 mens life:|He -’ll return where we began,E bu: nthcr fturt or (Irtfe; 8u :,}nTOFi* doth take her ^™ - 11 -aft no more, w^e fee;G°vcf ^ft that 1 not him grieve,ye 11 get np more of nae.( 7 )I LL never Love Thee more.Mi dear and only love, l pray,thar little world of tbee.Be govern'd bv no other fway,but pureft monarchy.For if confufioB have a part, -which virtuous fouls abhor,1 11 call a fynod in ray heart,and never love thee more.As \lexander T will reign,and l will reign alone.My thoughts did evermore difdain,a rival on my throne.He either fears his fate too much,or his deferts are fmall.\\ !.o dares net nut it to the touch,-to gain or lole it all.But I will rrigu, and govern hill,and always give the law,And have each fubjed at my will,and all to ftand in aw:But ’gainft my batt’nes if f hadthou dorm or vex me fore.As if thou fet me a* a blind,ril never love thee more.And in the empire of thy heart,where I fliould folely be.If others do*preu nd » part,or dares to ihare with ms:( 8 •>Or comirWi*es if tl ou ereft,or p"v a fc >re.ril f'<i rnock at thy ncglevV,ai d never love thee moreBut if no foithief; adion (lainthv love-and comfant word,IM1 n-ake thee hm us by my pen,at\ gluYious by my 'word.I’ll fervr thre in fuch fi ble ways,as ne’er v o.s known before:I’ll deck and rown thy head with bay?,and nv e mo'e a •? rnorc■      ■     —O^NRV S COTTaG- maid.Ah Vv .err i fly :n foul's tr vs?b"d ' wander his lone grove; ’Sighs ?’ •' t^ars for hi t (he !,Henry is crr.;n . ur fledThy love to me tlou uidfi i . part,Th» love fo’-n v o? tr. virgi.i h - rty,Em lear. lt • ’ ’ -..v t . :u’it betray'd,Thy love wrh ;hy poor cutt^g -aiud.fhro' the vale my grief app ats,Sighmg fac vit5 pearly ;e rS:Oftjiiy imagy is <y t pm-,/vs i wander - p r grrtn :See from ny ch- . r t ie colou f!-s,/in . love's 1 er, ••opt within «v.. v: s;Fm c hl deer n ; .oidll betray'dTby love wuh vi!iage>maid~C \ A ;•■ G O W,Printef by }. m d M. Kol^uion, Sr.hmaiket, 1^05