THE GOLDENOE,Dreams Interpreted.Showing clearly how all thingsPAST, PRESENT, & TO COMEMay be ascertainedBY H12AXS OF BREAMS.Together with an Essay onPHILOSOPHA' OF BREAMS.GLASGOW:SOLD BY THE BOOKSELLERS.ZH(lJOi.> aHT,ao8IB£97a' e^nirfi He yrod ylifiab grriwo/fS3moo ot h jmsam ,Tg/.iI)9m«h938fi od vbUIO tlffJiBT rtfno nn iliiw loilJagoT.*IfiAaH<S r-MO fH«SO*O.BSai*g008A JO.gfla jjaaaooo sht yo ojosthe nwdream book.Air.—To dream of the atmosphere, has a"variety of interpretations, and depends en¬tirely oh the different appearances it has. Ifiyou dream the sky is clear, of a fine blue, calmand serene, then if is k; good omenyou willhe* snctessfnl in your enterprises; if you aresoficitihg any place1 of preferment, you willsurely obthm'it,—if ybii are in love, you willsurely marry the 'object of your affections,have yttii a lawsuit ? ‘ yon will gain it-; are youIn trade ?" It will flourish and be profitable,are you a farhihr? good crops will atJfcendyon, your cattle Will increase, your pigs anpoultry, Mil he abundant, your commoditieswill fetCb agoO'dprice at the market; are youhiaCried ? : you wilFhare mauy children andthey will‘be dutiful, and do well ; are youabout to undertike a jourttey•? it will answeryour utmost expectations ; are you going toSea? fyoh will have a pleasant and prosper-■thik' voyhge; are fon in debt ? you will speedilyt>fc enuhled to extricate yourself from it ; areyb.ii11 in prison r you will shortly he set atliberty. To’ dream that it is full of thick,dark, and heavy clouds, is an unfavourabletoken, you will Ml sick, and perhaps die and•disappointments will attend-your business.To dre&ifo of the‘committing of)*dj brra bnw uov >[do hnil adt4this sin, forebodes great troubles and misfor¬tunes, If you arte in lore, you will certainlyfail in,Anarfyiogrtlje object of your wishes. Ifyou have a law-suit, it will certairilyjgo *g*in- ,st you, by the treachery of those wno prelen-ded to be y out friends. If you are in busi- itiess sumo heavy Ipsp will happen to you. *Sucbia dreant announces that you are in greatdanger of losing your liberty, if you areabout to undertake a voyage to sea, omit itfor the present, for you wuLneyer reach thedestined port. To dream you are tempted tocommit this crime, and that you resist it, i$ ahappy omen, every thing will ftourishynth you—be sure it is a good time to begin tradeafter such a dream. If you have a law-suit,, all will go on in your favour, with credit toyourself, and confusion to your opponents ;if you are about to undertake a long journey,it will be pleasant and successful to your object-rrif you are going to sea, you will have anagreeable voyage, fine weather and a quickarrival at the port of destination; if you arein love, press the object of your wishes, ferthey will be gratified.Appe,REi„—Nothing more demonstrates theevents that are about to happen you thandreaming of wearing apparel, but almo.-t everycolour has a different interpretation, and muchdepends on its appearing new qr .old, its fitt¬ing you, pr being too big or too little. Weshall here explain them according to their dif- iferent qualifications. To dream you aredressed in white, is a .sure token of success inthe first object you undertake, and that you5■will be successful in love, and that your sweet¬heart is of a good temper and amiable dispos¬ition. To dream you are dressed in green,denotes that you are about tp undertake ajourney to your advantage, and that yoursweetheart prefers you to all other lovers. Todream you are dressed in hlack, is an unlucky-omen; some quarrel is abjOtut, tp happen be-'tween you and a friend or relation; sicknessis about to attend you and your family ; deathwill deprive you of some near friend or rela¬tion ; law suits will perplex and harass you-u_if you undertake a journey, it will be un¬successful* and contribute.umeb to injure you;-health and fortune—it you are in love it de¬notes that your sweetheart is very unhappy,and that sickness will attend her,—if y;vu ar/‘a farmer,: you will be cheated by some knave,and your drops will turn out indifferent ; thjemurrain will attack youp.cattle, and sqiqedreadful accident will happen by the overturnof some of your waggons,—if you arejn busi¬ness some one will arrest you, and you vyillhave great difficulty in settling the matter-To dream you are, dressed in blue, deputeshappiness, yon will shortly be invited to sorqebanquet or merry making, whenyou will makesome friends and be very happy, if you onlyavoid quarreliug, which some enemy to yo.urwelfare will endeavour to excite you to dp,your sweetheart is denoted by this colour tohe very faithful to,you, and will make you veryhappy aud comfortable; you will have manychildren, chiefly boys who will turn out honestand good,—if you are in trade you will pros-v)' Triny hns t37oI ni luDaasaoae sd iiiwIf ^dudpejnwyoUiaw dressed in sic ark*,Voti(ai-e' thereby wamed of some very heavydaldriiliiyl and a severe ^ fit of ilitBeas,. yodv?^-eetheart is by it announced to you to-be ofa turbulent disposition, much'inclined to.dis-Inte abont tfifles, add 'liable to make you veryurihapjfy, your children will be short-livedand of very unhappy tempters^ much inolined‘to’ bfe verysicklys-Hlt surely denotes a quarrelhnd'ldib lyfffrends. ■ ■ ,• , -Asses—Tb dredmypu are riding on.a ass,?! the fprbrtinncr of some foolish , quarrel inwhich' you will be 'much! in the wrong, andcbh&ertihed'by your frfends. If you be muchin lovty itulenots that some misunderstandingn'iU'd cdr between you and your sweetheart,ia which you will be in the fault. It you are‘in' business, it foretels tbat you have under-t iken stfme foolish bargain. To dream youate drivhig aSses, denotes that you will falli do ikme trouble, of which you will get thebfettof, and that you will be relieved frompresent 'embarrassments. If ybu are in love,it denbtps that sortie quarrel will take place be-tifixf yduf sweetheart artd yonrself, which willsooh be made up again to your.advantage. To'drtaW ftri ass'rrtns after you, denotes that somefudli'sh pefSOn speaks ill of yon,! who vtill he¬ed rt^ thttuiselves the victiriis of the scandalraisie(l;ag^iltlst you. v>;» 37...’ Acqv AftffiNCE-.-h'To' dream, you- quarrel or■ fight with!i art:Acquaintance, is an unluehyblrtert, it^'lbf^hodes '&« division .among your'oufii faitiil^yiWitelP te the injnry and prqj odhee• of the dreamer. If you are in Ibve, your mis-7.8tress will prove unfaithful, and-marry someothe/f rtfait1 clfatifsliei has <lokl :}-oii sheunoist hates.Tf you awirtifeusiipess. •eonfof’liearydAiaBrgillbefall yW^'tou AvilL disagree with some otyour best friends on the mosfcrtrivial; matters,Afill emiin an opentfnp*dfe. If yo^iareietipebt a bad crop, the murrainaniongst yoflr dattle bthat your pigs awd poul¬try wilt‘fait and .not fetch good' {>ricesj—eif youhave a hiartmt, depend that 'your attorneywill neglect you, that your witnesses will betardy and backward, and that finally you M illlose ydur"cause. Do not;for.sometime un¬dertake a joarney: by land of a voyage bysea; enter for the present into Ao new un¬dertaking, for you will bp unsuccessful; quit,dfyoiU can; your; present place of residpuce ;and,1 above* all, avoid lending money, for youwilb surely lose it,'together with the friendshipof those to whom you lend it. If you dreamthhtyou are with an acquaintance at ,s©meplace of public amusement, you may expectsdctti to be called from home on business ofimportance. ■ r ■ .Bread.^-To dream you see a quantity ofbread denotes great success in lifev .to dreamof eating bread, denotes many friends who willdo you kindness.Bridge.—To dteam you are going over abridge and'meet; with no interruptiofi, you willgo through life in a prosperous mahner, if any¬thing impedes you, yon will meet With many- obstacles in the wwld.Buried Alvto.^-If you dream you are buiredalive, it sheitfs you are in danger of bfeing JW-happy andsunfortitnate during life. •8Children.—To dream you have children is »sign that you will be happy in your family ;if one or more of them die, you will meet withsome misfortune.Cherries.—To dream of cherries betokensdisappointments in life, vexations in marriage,falsehood in love, and deceitful pleasure, butif you climb , the tree, a sure, speedy, andunexpected advancement in life is certain tohappen to you.Coach.—i-To dream of riding in a coach de¬notes that you will love idleness, and be givento pride; to dream of coming out of a co^chsignifies* that disgrace threatens you, and greatcaution is necessary.Corn.—To dream you are gathering ripecorn denotes success in yon* efiterpriase, but ifit is blighted or mildewed, you will be a greatloser.Comets.—To dream you see a comet isominous of warr, plague, famine, and death, tothe lover it forebodes an entire frustration ofhis hopes, to the farmer, failure of crops, andfor the seaman, storms and shipwreck.Currants;—To dream of black currantsdenotes great happiness in the married state,if you dream you are pulling them,, it is cer¬tain you will have a large family, who will alldo well, but if the currants, are red, beware offalse friends, those whom you little expect, forthey will do you harm if they possibly can.Dancing. To dream you are dancing at a,bttll, wake, or enteitainment, fortels that youWill shortly receive some joyful news froman absent friend, and that you ate about te>9inherit some unexpected legacy, it fortels sue-«ess and happiness in love, that your sweet¬heart is kind and tfue, and will make youvery happy in marriage, to the sailor, it is asuccessful voyage.Death.—To dream you are dead denotes aspeedy marriage ajjd success in ^11 your un¬dertakings, to the married it promises youngchildren, who will be dutiful and give greateomfort, to dream you see another person deaddenotes ill usage from friends, if you- are inlove, your sweetheart will prove false, if,youarejin trade, sharpers will take you ip, if afarmer, you will lose money by horses, and bewaylaid as you return from market.Debt—To dream you are in di^ht and pur¬sued by officers, denotes that you w ill fall intosome unexpected difficulties, or great danger.Devil.—To dream you see the deyil withqujtfear foretells ypu yijl get the better of yopradversary, if you are frightened you will beunder some danger.Dogs..—To dream of dogs that belong to ussignifies success in our pursuits, but if wedream of those belopging to others, dangerousenemies.Eagle..—To dream of seeing an eagle soar¬ing high is a goodomen to those who have greatundertakings on hand, but to dream that aneagle alights upon us signifies mischance.Eatipg.—To dteam you are eating denotesprofit and success in ypur present enterprise, aloathing of victuals is a sign of disunion in yourfamily.Fruit.—Almonds indicate difficulties, lossef liberty, aud deceit ipiloVe.Fortune.—To dr'tiatn you make a swlifenfortune Wra bad biten;1 to iradesriiWi, it fore¬bodes losses in trade, qUatrelling with hie ere*ditors, apd lo^s of liberty. , .Funeral.—To dream you are busily 'em¬ployed in burying a person denotes a veryspeedy marriage, and that, ere long-you willhear of the death or‘ nnprismmrent of somenear relation or esteined FriOnd.Fields.— To dreaini yoh afe in 'green fieldsa very faVourdbl^ signIn love, it denotesstteeess and hjTp'ness; to the tradesman,success and riches arrdto the farmer, plenty ;if you are soliciting U favour, it portends youwill obtain it.FightiUg.—To dream that' you are fightingdenotes aincb' opbositidn to your wishes, withloss of character' and'property. 'Fire.—To’$ream of lire dehotes health andhappiness to the lover, marriagb with theobject of their affections, and iriUtty 'children-';also that ypn will be'angry with Some orie fora trifle. To dream Of burning light portendsdreadful accidehts to the-dreamer. If a sickperson sees a fire extinguished, it is a presageof death. If a person on board rt ship dreamslie sees a light, a gieat tyay olf, it: betokeflaafair wind arid a safe arfivhl. To dream ofseeing liglited torches and branches ot firedescending from heaven, signifies quarrelling.,disappointment, and adversities. To dreamyou see a fife spUrkKng denotes hasty newsand anger; to dream of seeing a ship on lire,denotes 1 stithie urijfieakant news aboUtr toarrive ; to dream •y'ditfuipe Jtf'tlti' irtidst of-'a'-fifeijianti ftael paia iroiHi it, pnesag^s displfcasate andTo,4reapi that yxro hoid a UgktQd.^orciiirt-your hand, shows you wiU gain houonr andrespoct from all persons. To dream that youkindled a fire without much trouble, and itburns directly, shows that your children willbeifortunate; but if you kindle a lire with,much trouble, andit is extinguished presently,shows an honour especially to wotnep, d’odream you see a ah i p on fire at sea,: denotesgreatfiosses in business. .Bishing.—To dream yon .are,.fishing is asign of aorrow and trouble ; if you catch fish*you will be successful iu love and business,if they slip out of your hand, after yon havecaught them, it.: jfc. a,, sign sqine pretendedfriend will deceive you#Flowers.—To dream y6u are gatheringflowers is a very favourable omen,,.and is asign you wilFtlirive in.ev§ry,,thing-yop inay,undertake' that you will be successful in love,marry happily, and have beautiful children.Qardnnvi—To dream you are walking, jn agarden denotes your advflrmement to fortune;if you.are gathering idfe produce of it, you willbp happy i*t marriage, and have; a large family*it betokens great .success to tlip .lover^.andincrease of business to the tradesman., •(leesh.—To dream of geese is a sure sign ofgood ; you may, exipect tqjsee an absent friendsoon ; to the dreamer,, they .denote successand, riches.fTifts.^To dreAm to bavq-aay 4,hipg giventny«u is a sign- that, some =gW9d is ftbout.,toihappeatoyou., ^ Mwbtt•eeimeae evcd uoy; Jmlt12Glass.—To dream of glass denotes bad suc¬cess in various undertakings;; if yen break it,it warns yen of some1 unforseen misfortune,the death of your wife, or husband, or chil¬dren.Gold.—If you dream of go1d,dt' is a verygood Omen ; it denotes success in yont pre-sent undertakings, after encountering num¬erous difficulties. nixGtniseherrids.-^If you dream of gooseber¬ries growing on the bush, they demote that youwilf haVe a numerous family and great successin your present Undertttkirigs; but if they arebaked, great trouble is near at hand, soprepare for a sick-bed.Grapes.—To dream of white grapes beto¬kens felicity in marriage and successHn trade ;bht if they are purple, it denotes great miseryto the matrimonial state; to the tradesmangreat distress and toss of business.Grave.—To dream of being buried is a signthat yori shall die very poor.Guns.-e-To dream you see or hear gan*firing foretells much misery; if you fire them,ybu will -have quarrel; if they are dischargedat yon, you will be exposed to many dangers.flail.—To dream of hail denotes sorrow andmuch grief.'Hair—To dream that you are brushing orcombing' your' hair portends success in love,tfade, or some other pursuit. It also signifiesriches; to dream that your hair has grownso long that it hahgsvery loose over yonrshoulders, denotes that one superior to yoaadores you ; but if the hair is red, it denotesthat you have enemies.13Hangiiig-“-Djreaming' you see one tanged,or that you ate to be executed yqurself, is asign you will, by marriage, rise,aboye yourpresent-ctrodition, or a favour will be askedfrom you by one in needy circumstances.,Hate -^Dreaming of being hated by friendsor foes is a bad omen. , , .Hills—To dream pf climbing up hills,shows you will overcome many troubles, andat Last be very rich,Horsesi-^To'dream of horses is very lucky,if you dream that yon see a white horse, theydenote speedy news; if they are/ black, youmay expect to hear of the death of an oldacquaintance.Ice.—To dream you are sliding or skatingupon ice shows you will ha engaged in, someimaginary pursuit that will e^pde, you; if theice breaks, you may ,be certain ^f sickness.Infant.—Dreaming of-1 infynts denotes illhealth and trouble if they are playing, you maytberiiexpect to receiv^ great; satisfaction froma distant land.Iron.'—To dream you are/hurt with irou,shews yoti will receive 4eme .injury.Key To dream of losing your key denotesdispleasure; to find one, an addition to yourfamily : to give one, is marriage :j to receiveone, the-'b|ij*iih of achild.King or Queen—To dream about the King«r Queen, or-any of the royal family, betokensdisappointment, excepting the months inwhich there is not an R, when it is a sign ofgreat honour and prosperity.Kissing. To dream you kiss a pretty maid14indicates good ; if she consents without anyTfcsistatice, she' will be true to her lover; todream yon kiss a married woman and sheconsents, is a sign of sorrow and poverty, andthat you will be unsuccessftll in yohr presentundertakings; it usually means deceit.Knife.—To dream you-give h knife to yourintended, shows ydu Will lose him ok henf/adder.—To dream yon climb a ladder,denotes that you will arrive at great honour;it betdkehs also a happy marriage -and-manychildern.Laureh—1A wife to dream1 she smells alaurel-tree shows shfe will hate children ; if amaid, she will be soon married to him whomshe loves.Letter. —: To dream of receiving- a letterbetokens a present; if you send one, you willrelieve a person in bad circumstances* • ;Marriage.— To dream 'yon are married,signifies the death of yourself or some nearrelation ; to dfeam yoiyissist at a weddingdenotes pleasing news and great success ^ito% dream of' lying with your husband or 'wifethreatens sudden misfortunes and greatdangers,Mice:; To dkeam of mice denotes successid* love,! and a happy marriage. 1 t •: y1' .Milk. If you dream bf milk, - itprodiisesgreat news; if you see it Howntig f'roin awoman’s breast, foretells happiness in childrenand in trade. • 1 * 1 1 t : ,Mdney. To dream of getting money denotes,great success in all your undertakings.Mnlberriei.' To dream of 'mulberries, is15•constancy and affect,ipn in the married state sto travellers and salors, prosprous journeysand voyages ; to the lover it denotes a speedyunion with his sweetheart.Music To dream you hear delicious musicdenotes joyful news from a friend who harbeen dong absent.Myrtle. To dream of the myrtle denotesa wanton woman ; bewarp. then with whomyou keep company.Nakedness. To dream of nakedness denotesscandal; if you see a naked female, it is lucky,it denotes that honours await yon at no verydistaiW period.Night. To dream yon are travelling bynight foretells great vexation.Nosegays. To dream of gsuheripg andmaking nosegays is uplucky, showing thatour best hopes sliall wither as llowers doin a nosegay.: . ' ... . ' ;• Nuts- Dreaming of gathering nuts denotesthat you will spend your time in. pursuit ofa trifling objeot, when you might employ itto better .advantage.Oak. To dream that yoti see the stately,oak is a sign of long ii^e, riches, and great fe¬licity.Oranges. To dream you gre eating or^ges"implies that your feelings \vill be wo.unded,and may expect great grief, from a quarteryctu little expect it.Oxen. If you dreain thpjt you spe whjtp..oxen,, it shows virtuous inclinations; to $ee ,fab or lean oxen signifies presents, g,9»ihOrmisfortunes.16Oysters. To dream of eating oysters fore¬tells prosperity and that yon will he marriedto a lady who is really a virgin and who willlove you ; but if you shoulddet them fall, youwill lose the affections of the fady, for shfe isbetrothed to’another, and will speedly be mar¬ried.Path. To dream you are walking in a*etlsypath shows that you will be successful in lore,or if ydti dre mhrrfed/'you wilt obtain whatyou now wish for.Peacbck. To dream you see a peacock is asign you Will be married to a beautiful lady,and that you will be very rich.Pears. To dream of pears betokens eleva¬tion irt life, grCat'honour and‘riches, lore thatknows no termmAtiOrg And Success in everypursuit Vou taay eiObatk iit. 1Play TO dream, yod are at play betoken*happinfeS's in the married state, and increaseof business.Plums. There cannot be a worse dreamthan that Of pltrins ; they ate the forerunnere?ill-luck to the busbandmah, the sportsman,and the lovers who were undter promise ofmarriage.Purse. To dream you -find a purse betokensgreat and unexpected prosperity ; it you loseyotit {Vurse, y oil Will assist at a friend s funeral.Quaftel. If you dream you are quarrelling,it‘shows great happiness and contentment.Rain. If you behold rain in your dream, itpromises Success in a love affair ; in all otherrespects it betokens trouble and vexation.Ribbon. To dream you Wear ribbons,17shows an entanglement in love, to the single,and extravagant children to the married.Rings. To dream that you have a ring onyour finger denotes marriage with the personyou love; but if the ring drops off, it betokensdeath to a near friend.River. Dreaming that you see river-waterclear indicates godd; but to dream of swimm¬ing in the sea when it is muddy signifies greatperil and danger.Rocks. A good dream fot thosd going intobusiness, as it shows stability thertih. '(Sea. To dream you are walking on the seais good to him that would take a wife, for heshall enjtty her.Silk. To dream yon are clothed in silksignifies honour. *lT6 dreaih that you tradewith a stranger denotes profit arid'joy.Singing. To dream that, yon are singingbetokens some metgnchoiy news)’ if yofi areunwell, it shows a speedy recovery; if inprison, you will soon be set free.Soldiers. To dream of soldiers showstrouble, persecutions, and law-suits : if theypursue you, it shews that you will be dislikedby your rich neighboursSprats. To dream of sprats denotes youwill have a large family of children; If youdream of cooking them,' your children willgive yon a great deal of trouble.Stars. To dream ytm’behold the starsshinning very bright is success to the lover,and glad news from a far country, if jtheyfall it denotes health and happiness.Sun. To dream you see the sun shining de-nand filling: postsfriends, in ,a tavern signifies great joy iuu!MMfawto ypp wiyoHFs-..1 ij - “.Teeth. To dreatti (of ^ing jour tee^h$b9Ws; tb$ felSog^Sjorne/g^n^ SektOM,thftt.gveftt );rpn{i^,k^ht topcchinjiany you.tou^BWWt. . -Tp dreap/ .yoiu;, are oypftakenby a storm denotes that you will,, after mu'll-heJ'lesiSj,hardships, > arri,ye at happiness,' andthat you vvifl liycome ricli apd marry a good-natured lady.T-hirst. If any .one jdreams his thirst isquenched when thirsty^ and th^t^e lias drankhis fill of water ; i^. the. w^ter appeared cleiiran.4 apoeptable to h;m he will live very joviallyand h^cpme very wealiliy; hut if the waterbp troubled, luke warm, stinking, and dirty,he will end Ids days in sickness and affliction.Thunder and lujgHtping. To. di-pahi ofthunder or ightningd^oWs gain in diir bus¬iness; but if it hurts , u.s. It is a sign of sentecalamity.■ , . Toad. Tp dream wp destroy a tpad denotesthat we will discover a thief ,in whom weplaced great tfust.Trpes., To, dreftm of cutting down treesbetokens serious losses, in . trade ; but if \f eclimb them it denotes^dyanaemeht to honour. ,. Trumpet. To dream we;hear the sound ofa, trumpet denotes, trophies and misfortunes;.to (the lover, iiicotnsta^c.yjiii the object of hisaffections. . . . , ,..j i •Ufflis. . To. drqajn of. .ip-n?, in a chufch-ydfdot Ihe’ difStR"'>ofia‘Mtirov. or soldier,'';r :o \our family.Venus—^-To dream you see this goddess,or a 'statue 'or pict!tit¥; derioths a»^Htr)gtte inwh,ib^ you1 Wilr b^e etiga^ed and the more‘im¬portant wi¥l‘ this pKitik ptpVtf/ 1# the' planetVenus appekfs to’^pu in 1 h mortal form andspeaks jto you,.for it isaitoken Of a happy mar-oT '>Vallqfe!—"to dredth of WftlWn^ in a dirtypjace foriells sickhOsS; and vexation to thelover ; It also dedbtes ybur sweetheart to beof a had tctnper and inconstant.■Uvalls. if ybb ^dream#yon are walking onweak ahiJ iiafrow* walls, you ate sure to mu-dertake spnio bold and dangerous enterpriae ;if you come down without hurt you will suc¬ceed ; if the walls fall after you, you will bfedisappointed.Water. To dream of drinking watershows trouble and adversity; to the lover itdendtb's’ tiiatthe pretensions of ybur sweetheartare false • and will never wed you.Wedding. To drekm of a wedding is veryunfaVourabije‘to lovefs; jt denotes sickness ordeatlf t'b sbihO friend or relation.Wood. If you'dream of cutting or chop¬ping-'if-'bdd',' it shows yon will be very happyin yoifr fatriny |clre1e. and attain -to muchhonour and riches in life. To dream we arecarrying wood on our back, shows we will riseto affluence by industry and perseverance.Wool. To dream we are buying or sellingwool foretells gain in business by means ofindustry and perseverance; to to the lover,20•*it is a sign their sweetheart is pf an amiabledisposition, very constant and deeply in lorewith them.Writing. When dreaming of writing sletter to our sweetheart, if we put it in thepost, we will have a pleasing return; but totrust it into other hands shows that oursecrets will be exposed.Yellow. To dream of yellow colour de¬notes; great trouble to the married womanfrom a female friend, and the loss of her hus¬band's affections; to the lqver it signifies hewill marry a virgin. V i’,Yellow-Hammer. Tpitifftspn, », yellow-hammer denotes to* the young and single, thatthey will certainly, .be united. In wedlock tothe okjact of their choice,, befpre the'expira¬tion of next sumuier, .Yew Tree. To dream of a yew tree for-tells the funeral of a very aged person, bywhose death the drepp?er will became rich, orreceive a protecting han^fcpu? the relations orthe deceased.Yoke. To dream wp are boding a yokedenotes danger, if it bp p femal^ she will bewilling to obey her hughand, will^py^yaher family will*, prudence and r^e.Y'ouug. Tp dream that we are youpg fpr-tells peace, delight and great happiness.m ran;bnr. h«n,;«fl.jliisb Bio bidcasdibTHE PHILOSOPHY OF DREAMS.!Or Cantor delivered a lecture a short time-siitce, ity the course of which he mentionedsome curious circumstances respecting dreams.1 le said that the succession of ideas whichhad passed through our minds when awakewere remembered and recalled during sleep,and that ; was jjjhflt. was calle.(T dreaming.Dreads generally topjt plaeie wheii .th|e circula¬tion of the blood was impeded,' Our memory•was much more distinct and strong when wedreamed than when we were awake. It wa#because, when we were asleep, the associationpfthe ideas went pn withoutbeing d*sturbed orcounteracted, and there was no controllingpower over it., He would say a few wordsabout the most extraordinary of all classesof dreams, namely, prophetic dreams, in whichthe future is revealed to the dreamer. Theywere all acquainted with the facts connectedwith the death of Mr Perci val, the PrimeMinister. [When that statesman was stillalive, a gentleman in the country, of the nameof Williams, dreamed that he Was standing inthe lobby of the House of Cohmions, and sawMr Perceval enter, and Instantly a man lev¬elled a pistol at him. Mr Williams told hiswife, who thought little dPit, and his friends•ailed him a fanatic. A week after, however,the news arrived that Mr Petceval had beenmurdered in the very same way the gentlemamhad dreamed. A very remarkable instancehad occurred to the late Sir John Stuart.When young, and ill of the typhus fever, hedreamed of a dark-haired and dark-eyed younglady, with wjioraheiell iu love. Years after¬wards he went to the Continent, and thereniei with the identical party, and it Was to hercare that he oWOd the complete restoration ofhis health; and hemarried her. There was agreat number of Such dreams recorded. Theancients "paid great attention to dreams. Adecree Wa's published !Under Augustus,, ascommanding; every one who had dreamed adream,' to report the same to the government.Tf waS'ceftain that the mind possessed’some¬times in dreams an'a pfiori knowledge whichwas nighty refndrka'ble. It Was Sometimes thesame just the moment 'before death. Therewas indeed Serftitural athorify in favour ofdfeams.' But the fulfilment of dreams wasbpi| nfeaps' astonishing, generally s^eakin'g.HOME AFEECriTOX'.,,’J^he heart has memories that cannot die".They are memories of home, early home.,T%fe tec magic in the very sound. Thereif .the old tree tinder which the light-heartedhoy swung in many a summer day—yonderby which he learned to! swim—there thehouse in which h,e .hhew a parent’s love, apdfound a parent’s protection—nay there is theroqtp^i. which he romped w}th brother or .sis¬ter, long since, alas I laid in the yard to whichfre Twtet soon b^gathereii, 6Vef^ia|hwed by^on.oid qbarch, whether wjtha j<nmus troophhe, Jymaeltehq has often fellowed his parents,to: worship with, and hear tho .good old manwho gave him to God. in baptism. Whypvoathe very seimol-house of youthfnl dayswith tlioughts of fernle and tasks, now comeshack to bring pleasant remembrances of manyon attachment there formed, many an occasionthat called forth some generous exhibitions ofthe noblest traits of^human nature. Thereperchance he first met the being, who,,by herlove and tenderness in after life, has made ahome for himself even happier than thatwhich childhood knew. There are certainfeelings of humanity, and those too among thebest, that Can find an appropriate place fortheir, excercise only at one’s own fireside.hfnovr 91W .'it'.iil 'lidraii* *• OF WIT.A vyer “fast” young gentleman, who fan¬cied himself a pendulum, and always went up¬on Tick,..went'op.,^o Jong that lie never dis¬covered his delnsipn nptil he found a Turn¬key, by whom he was carefully woundup inthe Queen’s <;l?ench.' ,' Short a'no Satisfactory—-A.t an Ameri¬can debating club one evening the questionwas discussed, whether there was more hap¬piness in the possession or the pursuit of anobject. “ Mr. President,” said an orator,“ s’pose I was courtjn’ a gRl, and she was torun away, and I was to run arter her, wouldn’tI be happier when 1 cotch’d her than when Iwas running arter her ?”“ Any old Clo’!”—The other day I wasI