THE■WONDERFULANDMOST ASTONISHING ACCOUNT1O FAlexander Libanus;WHOI'Having fpent all his Money, fold him-felf to the Devil, on condition thathe ftiould give him as much Moneyas he chooied, but withal at the endof thirteen years, fhould be at hisdifpofal; and how he was torn topieces by him.WITHi\n extraordinary account of his Burial.\RINTED IN THE YEAR,( - }8 * I! K«* H M i (3) II <«) II * II II8# * BThe Wonderful and mojl aJloniJJjing Ac¬count of Alexander Libanus.IN Libyffa there lately lived one, cal¬led Alexander Libanus, who, in hisyounger years, appeared to have greatzeal for truth and piety, he began tcfhow his great regard for truth and piety, when he was about fourteen yearof age, and continued very godly til'he was arrived at twenty-one years oage, and then he began to be drawn ofby worldly pieafures. He was vermuch drawn off by the female fex, whichhad a tendency to deprive him of all hismoney, and, being very much dilquiet-!ed, he went one day into a very large ,wood, not far from the place where hdufed to refort. After having walked :there » good while for his pleafure, he ifat down, being wearied, under a treeHe was feized with more than ordinarygrief at his low condition, and callinghis eyes around him, he faw, as hethought, a very fine gentleman, cloth¬ed in black, coming forward to him '>who addrelied him in the followingwords, Sir, you feem difconfolate, whatis the matter that you are fo ? Yes, fayAW'jnfW. T pm much diflxeffed or( 3 .account of my low condition, my fool-ifh way of living for fome time paft,hath been fo great that it hath depriv¬ed me of all the neceflaries of life. Tothis the gentleman replies, with a kindof fmiling countenance, if you will becontented to ferve me, I lhall fuppiyyou with a fufficiency of money all thedays of your life. Likewife, you. fhallhave a fufEcient quantity of all the plea-fant things you defire.Now, this gentleman was the devil,come to tempt him, at which Alex¬ander was fo (truck with amazement,I that he readily thanked the gentleman,li and told him that he would complyI with his offer. The devil told him:;|(for by this time he knew that it wasthe devil) that he was to be at his| difpofal thirteen years after that time.(Then the devil, having given him ak livery large fuxn of money, did take hiseave and depart. This wretch wentome, and indulged himfelf in all kindsf wickednefs. However, he wouldbmetimes think upon his end that wasaft approaching, and would fbmetimestry out inbitternefs of foul, oh! if I hadiberty to addrefs a throne of grace, asa former times. His appointed timetvifrew very near, being the laft year;2v 4wherein he was refolved to commit allmanner of wickednefs with greedinefs.He as ufual, went putr upon a certainday, and law a very hne gentleman,clothed in gay raiment, coming to meethim, who, as loon as became up to him,he fhot dead upon the fpot, withoutfaying one word. Alexander immedi¬ately, having fhot the gentleman, andtaking his money, was going off. Andhaving feen a body of men purfuinghim, immediately betook himfelf to hisheels, but he being overtaken, was ap¬prehended, and put into prifon ; wherehe was tried for the murder, and con¬demned to be hapged. All hopes of re¬lief being taken away, he thought uponnothing but that he muft afiuredly die.But within two days of the time in whichhe was to fufFer, feveral of his compa¬nions being within the prifon, in orderto comfort him, feeing his death was fonear, and the doors being ail {hut, noc-withftanding, the devil came in the fhapeof a boar of immenfe bulk, which putthem all into a great furprize, Alexan¬der immediately leapt upon it’s back,when he went out with fuch extraor¬dinary fwiftnefs, the people thought thewhole houfe {hook, immediately it was<noifed abroad, that the devil had carriediPS'I T—5 7 off Alexander Libanus. Search for him■was immediately made throughout allthe town and country, but he was notat all any where to be found at that time.Still he went on perpetrating wicked-nefs in every place. He went into a houfein the country, very far from any other,where he put all the people to death,and took away every thing that wasconvenient for him to carry off. Afterwhich, a fecond time, he was appre¬hended and condemned to die. Thefatal day being come, he was taken outand accompanied to the place of execu¬tion. And when they were come with¬in 100 yards of the place of execution,lo, the devil came flying in the likenefsof a ftrong and terrible eagle, whichfnatched him upon its claws, as thepeople thought, and went thro’ the airwith a prodigious noife, to the terrorand amazement of all the beholders.Next day, he was found at the diftanceof 150 miles from that place. Now, bythis time, his final day was fafi: ap¬proaching, in order to drive away for-row, he began to drink very heartilywith a number of his companions, whenhe began to addrefs them in the follow¬ing words ; “ My dear companions, 1am to be feperated from you this day ;    -runder the thoughts of which, it is nowwith difficulty I fubfift. Alas, how I ampained at the breaft. This day I lhall re- |ceive a direful reward for mine adUons.”One of his companions calling his eyesupon him, and feeing him look fo pale !and ghoftly, addrefledhim thus: “ You fpoor filly devil, chear up your heart, andlet none of thefc bafe thoughts diflurbyour hreaft.” At this they began to be >very merry over their cups, till at laftthe devil came in, in a moft awful man¬ner, which fo terrified the company thatfeme of them ran out. The devil ad-dreiled Alexander in the followingwords : Now my brave and valiant fer-vant, you have been the befl fervant Iever had, I am now come to give youyour reward ; at which Alexander fella fhricking and crying. Forthwith thedevil laid hold on him, and tore himin pieces before their eyes. A numberof his companions were fo firuck at thisfearful catafirophe? thinking the famemight he their f ate, if they purfued fuchfieiul courfes as they had done, andwere obferved ever afterwards very pi¬ous, for they greatly amended what theyhad done. The relations of this mifer-able man were now employed in gather¬ing up all the pieces of him they couldTT^  find, and put them in.to a coffin. Hisburial-day is not altogether to be paffedby in this place, fo extraordinary werethe events that happened. Moft awfulwas the thunder and lightning whichdid enfue ; fo that the people thoughtthey would have been obliged to leavehim unburied. And befides the thun¬der and lightning, the devil appearedin many extraordinary fliapes ; fome-times in the ffiape of a large fox ; fome-times the weight upon the coffin was fogreat, that they were obliged to fet itdown : at other times it was fo light,that it was with difficulty they couldftop it from flying in the air. At laflone of them came down with amazingrapidity upon the coffin, at which thepeople were fo affrighted, that they letthe dead corpfe fall upon the ground,and ran off with great hafte ; the corpfefalling, the coffin was broken to pieces.Several perforls were fo affrighted, thatthey never had the ufe of their reafonafterwards. Others cried that the de¬vil was not content with Alexander Li-banus, but that he would take the wholeworld too. His relations prepared an¬other coffin for him, for the other wasfo fhattered that it could not carry thecorpfe to the church-yard ; jiftex hav-( ».) 1ing put the dead perlon into the coffinagain, there was a great number ofpeople gathered from all quarters, hear¬ing of the extraordinary event that for¬merly happened before. But althoughthere was lb vaft a number of people atthe place, yet there were very few whowould venture'to affift in carrying offthe corpfe for fear, lead; fomething extra¬ordinary might happen, which indeedcame to pafs, for no fooner had they !lifted the corpfe than it began to thun¬der dreadfully, that the people thoughtthe earth would rend, and fwallow themup alive. Prodigious yellings were alfoheard in the air, and fo extraordinarywas the lightning, that vaft numbersof people had their hair finged with it.However the people, in great confuhonand terror, were ftill going forward tothe burying-place. When they wereadvanced within half a mile of the place,the devil came flying in the likenefs ofa huge lion, roaring tremendoufly, andflying with vaft rapidity, he fnatchedup the coffin, and he was never morebeard of. Now I fliall end AlexanderLibanus.FINIS*