THE[No. 3.HISTORYOF THEEMPRESSJOSEPHINE,THE CONSOUT OPEDINBURGH:PRINTED & PUBLISHED BY J. BRYDONE,BOOTH HANOVER STREET.HISTORYOF THEEMPRESS JOSEPHINE.Tliis distinguished lady was bom on the 24th of June, 1763on the island of Martinique, and while very young was takento France by her father to marry the viscount Beauhamois.Two children were the fruits of this union, which during oneperiod was not altogether felicitous. Certain suspicions tookplace on the part of the husband, the tribunals were appealedto, and a separation was demanded. These at length decreedthat the facts adduced were too uncertain to obtain a decreeof so serious a nature, and the husband and wife were at lengthprevailed upon to resume their former intercourse.They now re-appeared at court, where they had alwaysbeen well received. Madame de Beauhamois, who was agreat favourite with the queen, about this time began to beconsidered one of the handsomest women in the roj’al circleat Versailles, and entered into all the dissipations of thatperiod. But the assembling of the states-general, and theevents that already seemed to prognosticate an approachingrevolution, soon banished every idea of gaiety and pleasurefrom the palace of the kings of France. Her majesty oftentestified her fears on this subject in private to Josephine,little dreaming that her friend should one day become hersuccessor; while the latter, in her turn, evinced great un¬easiness at the conduct of her brother-in-law, the marquis deBeauharnois, who then occupied a seat among the represen¬tatives of the nation.This general inquietude was soon followed by a private alarm.Her own husband, who had been for some time a field-officer,and always evinced an eager desire for glory, was now aboutto join the army, in consequence of an unexpected declarationof war. He accordingly repaired to his regiment, and soonattained the rank of general. ' But "although attached fq, andbeloved in turn by, Louis XVI., ho readily perceived'thatthis monarch was destined, at no distant period, to lose thatHISTOItY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE. 3.ihantoui of power winch he then enjoyed, together with hisife at one and the same moment. When all this occurred,is had been foreseen, M. de Beauharnois himself was de-icunced as an aristocrat by his own soldiers, deprived of hisnommission by superior authority, and conducted to Paris,vhere he was placed in a state of arrest. Josephine, theensibility of whose heart is well known, immediately inter-iosed, and adopted every possible mode, both through thenedium of friends as well as by her own personal solicitations,I o obtain his liberty. Her husband, on his part, was deeplynoved by the aflectionate attachment and unceasing assiduity, f his wife, who was not only soon after denied the pleasurei |f consoling her unhappy husband, but actually deprived ofer own liberty, having been seized and confined at the con-; lent of the Carmelites. In the course of a few weeks, theunfortunate vicomte was carried before the revolutionaryiribunal, which instantly condemned him to death.1 Dr. Memes has published so interesting an account of theimpress Josephine, that we gladly avail ourselves of his valu-|ble “ Memoirs, ’ ’ which throw much new light on the domesticife of this accomplished female. Josephine, we need not re-ijiind our readers, was a Creole. The native elegance of mindInd manner so often possessed by these transatlantic Euro-;eans, their aptness in the acquisition of all external accom-Ijlishments, their warm temperament modified and restrainediy natural self-possession, are generally known“As regardsi;eomplish merits, she played, especially on the harp, and sung,rth exquisite feeling, and with science sufficient to renderjstening an intellectual pleasure without exciting the surmiseat the cultivation of an attainment less showy, but moreduable, had been sacrificed. Her dancing is said to have beenfirfect. An eye-witness describes her light form, rising scarcely1 rove the middle size, as seeming in its faultless symmetry to)at rather than to move—the very personation of grace. Shezeroised her pencil, and—though such be now antiquatedr mi elegante- v needle and embroidering frame, withlautiful audresi A love of flowers,’ that truly femininepiraiion, anu, according to a master in elegance and virtue.HISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.infallible index of purity of heart, was with her no unin¬structed admiration. She had early cultivated a knowledgeof botany, a study of all others especially adapted to the femaleimind, wrhich exercises without fatiguing the understanding,,and leads the thoughts to hold converse with heaven through*the sweetest objects of earth. To the empress Josephine,,France and Europe are indebted for one of the most beauti¬ful of vegetable productions—the Camelie. In all to which}:the empire of woman’s taste rightly extends, hers was exquisitely just, and simple as it was refined. Her sensethe becoming and the proper in all things, and under everj(variety of circumstances, appeared native and intuitive.She read delightfully ; and nature had been here peculiarlypropitious, for so harmonious were the tones of her voice,'even in the most ordinary conversation, that instances arecommon of those who, coming unexpectedly and unseen:within their influence, have remained as if suddenly fasci¬nated and spell-bound, till the sounds ceased or fears of dis¬covery forced the listener away. Like the harp of David orthe troubled breast of Israel’s king, this charm is known t<have wrought powerfully upon Napoleon. His own admissionwas, ‘ The first applause of the French people sounded in nrcar sweet as the voice of Josephine.’ ”A circumstance, trifling in itself, but for after events deserves to be recorded here—the prophetic intimation t(|Josephine, when.little advanced beyond childhood, of Infuture high destinies. We need not express our utter re}tion of the supposition that the prophetess believed her owrprediction. We see, in the course of Josephine’s story, thaher remembrance of it aided to direct the course of events tiits fulfilment. Still its coincidence, with a course of event iwhich could be so directed, remains a startling and unaolicountable fact.“ One day, some time before my first marriage, while takin!my usual walk, I observed a number of negro girls assembleround an old woman, engaged in telling their fortunes,drew near to observe their proceedings. The old sybil,beholding me, uttered a loud exclamation, and almost.HISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.■ force seized my hand. She appeared to be under the greatesti j agitation. Amused at these absurdities, as I thought them,. I allowed her to proceed, saying, ‘ So you discover something: ' extraordinary in my destiny V—‘ Yes.’—‘ Is happiness ormisfortune to be my lot V—‘ Misfortune. Ah, stop !—and[ fhappiness too.’—‘ You take care not to commit yourself, my. {good dame ; your oracles are not the most intelligible.’—‘ Ii jam not permitted to render them more clear,’ said the woman,t fraising her eyes with a mysterious expression towards heaven,i J ‘ But to the point,’ replied I, for my curiosity began to be) lexcited ; ‘ What read you concerning me in futurity V—'‘I1 What do I see in the future ? You will not believe me ifI speak.’—‘ Yes, indeed, I assure you. Gome, my good mother,i j what am I to fear and hope V— ‘On your own head be it then .: 'j listen: you will be married soon: that union will not bei ■ happy ; you will become a widow, and then—then you willi be queen of France ! Some happy years will be yours; butj you will die in an hospital, amid civil commotion.’“ ‘ On concluding these words,’ continued Josephine, ‘ thef. I! old woman burst from the crowd, and hurried away, as fastas her limbs, enfeebled by age, would permit. I forbade thei bystanders to molest or banter the pretended prophetess< i on this ridiculous "prediction ; and took occasion, from the>.» seeming absurdity of the whole proceeding, to caution theM young negresses how they gave heed to such matters.’ ”We have already stated that Josephine was arrested; andthe merited but dreadful end of Kobespierre alone saved1 Madame de Beauharnois, with about seventy others, destinedfor the usual morning sacrifice to the “ deities of Reason and1 Revolution.” Had we not her own confession, it might be* i deemed altogether incredible, that, under such circumstances,c Josephine’s thoughts should involuntarily revert to, andn dwell upon, the singular prediction which has been reportedin the commencement of these memoirs. “ In spite of my-h self,” said the empress, long after, to her ladies, “ I inces¬santly revolved in my mind this prophecy. Accustomed'I thus to exercise imagination, every thing that had been told<1 me began to appear less absurd, and finally terminated inI) niSTO'uy OF Til Rt FJtFURSS .TOSKFWfNfe'my almost certain belief. One morning; the jailer entered-the chamber, which served as a bedroom for the duchessd’Aignilloh, myself, and two other ladies;'telling me that hecame to take away mydtock bed, in order to -give it to an¬other captive. ‘ How give it V eagerly interrupted Madamed’ Aignillon ; 1 is' then' Madahie de Beauharnois to have abetter V—‘ Jfoj'rto) she will not need one,’replied the wretch,with an atrocious laugh ; ‘ she is to be taken to a new' lodging;-and from thence to the guillotine.’ At these words, my com¬panions in misfortune set up a loud lamentation. I consoledthem in the best manner I could. At length, wearied bytheir continued bewailing*, I told them that there was noteven common sense in their grief; that not only should Inot die, but that I should become queen of France. ‘ Why,d^Aiguillon, with something like resentment. ‘Ah! that istrue—t had forgotten. Well, my dear, you shall be maid ofhonour; I promise you the situation. ’ Upon this the tearsof these ladies flowed more abundantly ; for they thought, bn ;.seeing my coolness at such a crisis, that misfortune had af¬fected my reason. I do assure you,” continued the empress1,addressing the auditory, “that I did not affect a couragewhich I felt not; for I was even then persuaded that myoracle was about to be realized.”But we must now proceed to detail the means by whichthe future empress of France escaped from the guillotine/be¬neath whose stroke her Husband had suffered. The deathof Robespierre, and the repriew, at least, of his-victims, was !announced to the prisoners next morning. Josephine thusstates the circumstances:—“Madame d’Aiguillon, feelingherself ill from the thoughts of my approaching execution, soabruptly communicated, I drew her tow ards the window, whichI opened, iir order to admit air. I then perceived a woman ofthe lower class, who was making many gestures to us, which wecould not understand. F.very moment she caught and held upher gown, without our finding it possible to comprehend hermeaning. Observing her to persevere, I cried out ‘ Robe’ (agown), on which she made a sign of affirmation. Then, taking— "-1H   ----Hi STORY OF TIH, KMPRESS JOSEPHINE.y•rinp a stone, she put it in her apron, and again held vrp her gowni to us, raising the stone in the other hand ; ‘pierre' (stone),: I called out to her in return. Her joy was extreme on per-eeiving, to a certainty, that we at length understood her.i Putting the stone into her gown, she, several times, and with1 great eagerness, made the sign of cutting a throat, and fella-dancing and shouting. At the very moment, we heard agreat noise in the corridor, and the formidable voice of theturnkey, who was speaking to his dog, and, in the act ofkicking him away, cried out, ‘Go, you brute of a Robespierre !’This energetic phraseology proved we' had nothing to: fear, andthat France was saved. In fact, a few minutes after, we be¬held our companions in misfortune burst into our apartment,to give us the details of that grand event! It was the 9thThermidor ! My flock bed was restored to me, and, uponthis couch, I passed the most delightful night of my life. I(fell asleep, after saying to my companions,—* You see I ami not guillotined—and I shall yet he queen of France.' "1 We now come to the period of the marriage of Josephine: i*vith Napoleon, who was then but a young soldier of fortune.>ilrhe-following letter will best shew the state Of her affections«towards Napoleon, and the views which induced her to acceptmis 111 d:>mw JiiouumJla » tuolm jbiij on&mq“ My dear friend,—I am urged to marry again : my friendscounsel the measure, my aunt almost lays her injunctionsv ipon me to the same effect, and my children entreat myccompliance. Why are you not here to give me your advicer n this important conjuncture ? to persuade me that I oughti to consent to an union, which must put an end to the irk-n! iotaeness of my present position ? Your friendship, in whichij l have already experienced so much to praise, would renderi fou clear-sighted for my interests ; and I should decide with -i mt hesitation as soon as you had spoken. You have meti General Bonaparte in my house. Well!—he it is who wouldnpply a father’s place to the orphans of Alexander de Beau-lamois, and a husband’s to his wido-iV.“ ‘ Do you love him 1’ you will ask. Not exactly. ‘ Youhen dislike him V Not quite so bad ; but I find myself in8 HISTORY OP THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.that state of indifference which is any thing but agreeable,and which, to devotees in religion, gives more trouble thanall their other pecadilloes. Love, being a species of worship,also requires that one feel very differently from all this ; andhence the need I have of your advice, which might fix theperpetual irresolution of my feeble character. To assume adetermination has ever appeared fatiguing to my Creole su¬pineness, which finds it infinitely more convenient to followthe will of others.“ I admire the general's courage, the extent of his infor¬mation—for, on all subjects he talks equally well—and thequickness of his judgment, which enables him to seize thethoughts of others almost before they are expressed ; but, Iconfess it, I shrink from the despotism be seems desirous ofexercising over all who approach him. His searching glancehas something singular and inexplicable, which imposes evenon our directors : judge if it may not intimidate a woman !Even—what ought to please me—the force of a passion,described with an energy tlrat leaves not a doubt of his sin¬cerity, is precisely the cause which arrests the consent I amoften on the point of pronouncing.“ Being now past the heyday of youth, can I hope long topreserve that ardour of attachment which in the general re¬sembles a fit of delirium? If, after our union, he shouldcease to love me, will he not reproach me with what he willhave sacrificed for my sake ? will he not regret a more bril¬liant marriage which he might have contracted ? What shallI then reply ?—what shall I do ? I shall weep. Excellentresource! you will say. Good heavens ! I know that all thiscan serve no end ; but it has ever been thus; tears are theonly resource left me when this poor heart, so easily chilled,has suffered. Write quickly, and do not fear to scold moshould you judge that I am wrong. You know that what¬ever comes from your pen will be taken in good part.“ Barras gives assurance that if I marry the general, hewill so contrive as to have him appointed to the command ofthe army of Italy. Yesterday, Bonaparte, speaking of thisfavour, which already excites murmuring among his fellowHISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.9ynoldiors, though it be as yet only a promise, said to me, ‘ Thinkhey, then, I have need of theicprotection to arrive at power !Igregious mistake ! They will all be but too happy one day:hould I condescend to grant them mine. My sword is by■jay side, and with it I will go far.’“What say you to this security of success ? Is it not a prooff confidence springing from an excess of vanity! A generalf brigade protect the heads of government! that, truly, is anvent highly probable ! I know not how it is, but sometimeshis waywardness gains upon me to such a degree, that almost. believe possible whatever this singular man may take it inuis head to attempt; and with his imagination, who can: alculate what he will not undertake I1 “ Here we all regret you, and console ourselves for yourirolonged absence only by thinking of you every minute, andby endeavouring to follow you step by step through the beau-1 iful country you are now traversing. Were I sure of meetingyou in Italy, I would get married to-morrow, upon condition’ilfif following the general; but we might, perhaps, cross eachiCibtheron the route: thus I deem it more prudent to waitfor your reply before taking my determination, Speed, then,i.four answer—and your return still more.”; I! This is quite in keeping with Josephine’s character, as it; has already been developed—gentle and elegant, but alwaysI self-possessed—weighing all her actions, both with a view toMtheir consequences, and the light in which others would re-i/ig-ard them—a character in which delightful natural disposi-otions were worked up into something highly artificial—iteomething which would have been yet more pleasing than it■was, but that the means by which it had been made so were^too apparent.After her marriage witti Napoleon, sne remained some timein France, but afterwards joined her husband at Milan,where she spent some of the happiest days of her life. Pre¬vious to Bonaparte ascending the throne of France, she wrotehim the following letter:—“ My Friend,—For the tenth time, perhaps, have I per¬used your letter, and must confess that the amazement into]0 HISTORY OP THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.winch it threw me subsides only to give place to sorrow andapprehension. You persist, then, in the resolution to re-es¬tablish the throne of France, and yet not to restore those whowere deposed by the revolution, but to scat yourself thereon ?What power, you ask—what grandeur—and above all, whatadvantage—in this design 1 And, for my part, I venture toreply, what obstacles present themselves to its success—howgreat the sacrifices which must be made before its accom¬plishment can be secured—how far beyond calculation theconsequences, should it be realized ! But let us admit thatyour purpose does succeed, will your views terminate withthe founding of a new empire ? Will not your power, opposed,as to a certainty it must be, by the neighbouring states, drawyou into a war with them 'i This will probably end in theirruin. Will not their neighbours, beholding these effects,'•ombine in turn for your destruction 1 While abroad suchis the state of things, at home how numerous the enviousand discontented—how many plots to disconcert and con¬spiracies to punish ! Kings will despise you as an upstart,the people will hate you as an usurper, your equals as a tyrant;none will comprehend the utility of your elevation, all willassign it to ambition or to pride. Doubtless, t; ere will notbe wanting slaves who will cringe to your power, until backedby another, which they esteem a more formidable influence,they will seek to elevate themselves on your ruin. Fortunatealso beyond hope, if steel—if poison !—a wife, a friend, darenot give pause to alarmed imagination on images so dreadful.This brings me to myself, a subject about which my concentwould be small indeed if I only were interested. But withthe throne, will there not likewise arise the desire of newalliances ? Will you not consider it necessary, by new familyties, to provide for the more effectual security of that throne ?Oh ! whatever such connexions might be, could they prove,like those formed at first in propriety, and which affectionsthe most tender have since consecrated ! I stop at this per¬spective, which fear—must I say love—traces in an appallingfuturity. You have alarmed me by your ambitious flight:restore my confidence by your return to moderation.”HISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE. ] 1Like all Cassandras, she was unheeded. Bonaparte hadas little of the self-tormenting metaphysics and cold relent-ings of Macbeth, as Josephine of the masculine spirit of hisspouse. The day came which was to realize the dream thathad haunted her from her youth. Df. Memes’s picture ofher coronation is one of his most fortunate efforts :—“ At eleven precisely, the cavalcade moved from the Tuil-leries towards Notre Dame. The imperial carriage, drawn byeight bays, attracted general attention: it had been con¬structed for the occasion, in a :very ingenious manner, theentire panelling being of glass, a circumstance which accountsfor the mistake of their majesties havifig seated themselveslike criminals, with their backs to the horses ; btit where somany omens and predictions have figured, it is surprisingthat the fact has been omitted. Josephine was the first todiscover this error, wdiich she instantly rectified, by lightlyassumhig the proper position ; saying at the same time to hercompanion, ‘Mon ami, unless you prefer riding vis-a-vis,this is your seat,’ pointing to the rich cushion on the right.Napoleon, laughing heartily at his blunder, moved to theplace indicated. The procession advanced,attended by tenthousand horsemen, the flower of ‘ Gallic chivalry,’ who de¬filed between double lines of infantry, selected from thebravest soldiers, extending about a mile and a half, whilemore than four hundred thousand spectators filled up everyspace whence a glance could l>e obtained. The thundere ofinnumerable artillery, the acclamations of the assembledmultitude, expressed the general enthusiasm ; and, as if tolight up the gorgeous spectacle, the sun suddenly brokethrough the mists which till then bad hung heavily over thecity. The cortege stopped at the arcbiepiscopal palace, whencea temporary covered gallery, bung with the banners of thesixteen cohorts of the ‘ legion of honour,’ conducted into theinterior of the cathedral and to the throne. To this latterwas an ascent of twenty-two semicircular steps covered withblue cloth, gemmed with golden bees, and crowded with thegrand officers Of the empire. On the throne, itself hung withcrimson velvet, under a canopy of the same, appeared Napo-12 HISTORY OP THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.loon, with Josephine on his left, attended by the princessesof the empire, and on his right, his two brothers, with thearch-chancellor and arch-treasnrer. The religious ceremonycontinued nearly four hours, enlivened by music composedfor the occasion chiefly by Paesiello, and sung by upwards ofthree hundred performers. The martial band was still morenumerous, which executed, in the intervals, marches, after¬wards adopted and still used in the armies of France. Oneof these, composed by Le Seur, for the army destined to in¬vade our own shores, when now performed for the first time,is said to have aroused a visible emotion even in that augustassembly. Alas! how cold are the hearts that then beathigh with hope ! how few, how very few survive of those up¬on whom the impulse wrought most stirringly 1 and, fromthe banks of the Tagus to the streams of the Volga, howvaried the clime that settles on their graves ! Yet not manyyears have passed—the story is contemporary history—thegrand actor might have been amongst us not an aged man :be the moral, therefore, more impressively ours. Were allsuch thoughts of this life’s greatness absent from Josephine’smind 1 It would appear not. Napoleon, at that part of theceremony, stood up, laid his hand upon the imperial crown,—a simple diadem of gold wrought into a chaplet of inter¬woven oak and laurel,—and placed it on his head. He hadeven given express directions that Pius should not touch it.Popes had pretended that all crowns were bestowed by them ;and perhaps the new emperor dreaded the belief that he hadbrought his holiness from Rome with reference to these ancientpretensions. He wished, therefore, to demonstrate that theright to reign originated in his own power, and that at hiscoronation the pope was but the bishop of Rome. Afterwards,Napoleon took the crown destined for the empress, and firstputting it for an instant on his own, placed it upon his con¬sort’s brow, as she knelt before him on the platform of thethrone. The appearance of Josephine was at this momentmost touching. Even then she had not forgotten that shewas once ‘ an obscure woman;’ tears of deep emotion fellfrom her eyes; she remained for a space kneeling, with hands13HISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.crossed upon her bosom, then slowly and gracefully rising,fixed upon her husband a look of gratitude and tenderness.Napoleon returned the glance. It was a silent but consciousinterchange of the hopes, the promises, and the memories of|| years!”The ridicule which has attached to the manners of Na-I poleon’s court has been greatly exaggerated, and from evi¬dent design, in writings published by renegade courtiers[since the restoration. We have Josephine’s own authority,whose judgment and taste are indisputable, that the emperorhimself, from the first, observed with ease the habitudes of1 his rank. “ Most certainly,” such are her own words whenconversing in the little circle of her own exiled court, “ mostI truly do I regard the emperor as a man who has no equal,i In camps, at the council board, they find him extraordinary,but in the interior of his palace he ever appeared to mostill more remarkable. I confess that, notwithstanding myi experience of the world and its usages, the commencementi of the imperial forms embarrassed me. The emperor, on thei contrary, made a sport, a pleasure of them ; and in all thepalace, he alone, beyond contradiction, best understood theirobservances. Lannes, who enjoyed full licence of speech,made mockery of what he termed ‘ the hypocrisies of politicalworship but estimating such things at their real value, theemperor regards them under relations more elevated, andconceives that in the eyes of the people they conduce to re¬store to power the majesty and ascendancy which so manyyears of anarchy had destroyed. He grants, in truth, thattheir principal influence springs from the personal qualitiesof those invested with the supreme rule ; but hq maintainsthat, without equalling or superseding these qualities, cere¬monial institutions may supply their place with advantage.In supporting such a system, Napoleon shews himself at leastvery disinterested ; for who can stand less in need of appli¬ances to impose upon men than one who seems bom to govern 1In proof of his argument, he adduces the example of a crowdof princes who have reigned, so to speak, rather seated orlying than standing upright, but whose couch, guarded by1 4 niSTOltY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.the barriers of etiquette, has been respected like a sanc¬tuary.”Josepbine, on all occasions, evinced a strong desire to bepermitted to accompany her husband on his military expe¬ditions. On his part, Napoleon loved to .indulge this wish ;:ihd they differed only as to its being always possible. Onone occasion, however, after promising to take the empress,something having occurred to alter his intention, and to re¬quire speed, he resolved on departing privately without hiscompanion. Fixing, accordingly, one o’clock in the Morning,the 'htrar when she was most likely to be asleep, for the timeof setting out, he'was just about to step into the carriage,when Josephine, in a Most piteous plight, threw liCTself intohis arms. By SoMe means, she had obtained information cifwhat was going forward, and called her women ; but impa¬tient 6f any delay, had got up without waiting for them, andthrowing about her the first drapery she could lay hands up¬on, had rushed down stairs. A moment later, and Napoleonwould have been off like lightning; but he could rarely with¬stand the tears of his wife, so, placing her along the bottomof the carriage, he covered her with his travelling pelisse,giving Orders himself about the clothes and proper attendantsof the empress.But we must now revert to the domestic privacy of theempress. “ From about midday till half-past two or threeo’clock was passed by the empress in her apartments, work¬ing, conversing, and reading with her ladies. We have al¬ready mentioned how beautifully Josephine embroidered,and this accomplishment continued to be her chief amusesment, much of the most splendid furniture in the variouspalaces being covered with pieces executed by her own hand,with the assistance of her ladies. While the rest were atwork, one of the ladies, permanently appointed to the officeof reader, read aloud at such times as conversation was notpreferred. When any literary production gave more thannsiial pleasure, it was immediately begun from the commence¬ment, and perused a second time. The volumes selected wereinteresting but useful books, from the standard writers, andHISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE. lo:ill new publications of repute. Works of taste and imagina¬tion constituted, of course, a large portion of these public read¬ings ; novels, however, unless in particular instances, wereexcluded. Napoleon, indeed, disliked to see novels any whereabout his palaces; and traversing the antechambers, if hefound any of his attendants reading, he seldom failed to exa-'mine the book, and if a novel, condemned it to the flameswithout mercy. The individual, too, was sure of a lecture,which usually began with the question,—‘ So, you could findno better reading than that 1' While the empress and herladies were engaged as described, the emperor was in the habitof looking ifi upon the fair party at intervals throughout themorning. On these occasions, he is described as being ex¬tremely amiable, amusing, and in high spirits; for he rarelyvisited the saloon in the morning unless when in good humour,or, in his own phrase, ‘ when things went well.’ Josephine,too, though more rarely, would venture into his cabinet; butwhen he requited her presence for any conference of import¬ance, Napoleon knocked at the little door of private commu¬nication. The empress joyfully obeyed the signal; and theseinterviews, generally taking place in the evening, were oftencontinued so long, that on returning she found all her ladiesMfobfbl’.'itriaoA to TO-EKjcra sdt do taid^fusb s no b»dojiq ?iiA favourite amusement of Josephine and Napoleon was agame called “ prisoners”—the same as what our schoolboys call“ French and English,” or “ Deals.” There is somethingvery striking in the account of the last opportunity they hadof indulging in this relaxation “ The interval between the15th of August and the 27th of September, when the inter¬view at Erfurth took place, was passed chiefly at St. Cloud,and might nearly be called the last of Josephine’s happinessin Napoleon’s society. Only a few days before his departure,Josephine and Napoleon, with their usual familiars, played afinal game at the favourite amusement of ‘ prisoners.’ Itwas dark night before the party finished, and footmen withtorches were in attendance, to give light to the players. Theeffect could not have been without interest the blaze of thetorches now throwing bold, broad, and rich illumination upon16 HISTORY OP THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.the illustrious group as they assembled in front of the chateau,prerious to each run, again flinging scattered and flickeringlights upon the lawn, the trees, flowers, and rich dresses ofthe ladies, as the torch-bearers dispersed, following irregularlythe course of the runners. How closely resembling the livesof some of the noblest there,—this crossing, commingling,disappearing, sometimes in light, anon in darkness ; here allstarting away amid brightness and expectation—there, a figureoutstripping all others, only to be lost in gloom ! Napoleon,as usual,fell, though only once, as he was running for Josephine.Being thus taken captive, he was placed in ban, which he brokeas soon as he recovered breath, set again to running, and releas¬ed the empress amid loud huzzas from his own, and shouts of‘ fair play’ from the opposite party. Thus ended the last re¬petition of youthful sports.”From what we have seen of the domestic life of Napoleonand Josephine, no doubt can be entertained of his attachmentto that lady. But his mind was constantly haunted bydreams of ambition. He panted for an heir, and wishedthat the mother should be eminently illustrious in point ofbirth, so that mankind might be inspired with respect bothfor himself and his progeny. Accordingly, in an evil hour,he pitched on a daughter of the emperor of Austria, and re¬solved on divorcing a consort whose marriage had been“secretly blessed by the pope,” who had been crowned byhis holiness, who had been the wife of Napoleon during four¬teen whole years, and who could not be separated from himwithout a breach of his own express law, prohibiting everything of this kind in the imperial family.No sooner was this design resolved upon, than tne neces¬sity for communicating the painful fact to Josephine becameapparent. The 30th of November, 1809, arrived, whichNapoleon appears to have destined for declaring his final de¬termination to Josephine. She had wept all day ; they wereto dine together as usual, and, to conceal her tears, the em¬press wore a large white hat, fastened under the chin, which,with its deep front, shaded the whole of the upper part ofthe face. Napoleon, also, had shewn marks of the strongestHISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE. 17agitation ; he scarcely spoke to any one, but, with arms fold¬ed, continued at intervals to pace his library alone; fromtime to time a convulsive movement, attended with a hecticflush, passed for an instant across his features ; and at table,when he raised his eye, it was only to look by stealth uponthe empress with an expression of the deepest regret. Thedinner was removed untouched—neither tasted a morsel; andthe only use to which Napoleon turned his knife was to strikemechanically upon the edge of his glass, which he appearedto do unconsciously, and like one whose thoughts were pain¬fully pre-occupied. Every thing during this sad repast seemedto presage the impending catastrophe. The officers of thecourt, even, who were in attendance, stood in motionless ex¬pectancy, like men who look upon a sight they feel portendsevil, though what they know not; not a sound was heardbeyond the noise of placing and removing the untasted viands,and the monotonous tinkling already noticed ; for the emperorspoke only once to ask a question, without giving any atten¬tion to the reply. “ We dined together as usual,” saysJosephine; “ I struggled with my tears, which, notwithstand¬ing every effort, overflowed from my eyes ; I uttered not asingle word during that sorrowful meal, and he broke silencebut once, to ask an attendant about the weather. My sun¬shine, I saw, had passed away ; the storm burst quickly.Directly after coffee, Bonaparte dismissed every one, and Iremained alone with him. The evident change in Bonaparte’sdomestic arrangements, which on this day first took place,seemed to indicate to Josephine that her cares were no longerindispensable to the happiness of her husband. She hadrisen as usual from the table wdth Napoleon, whom she slowlyfollowed into the saloon, and with a handkerchief pressedupon her mouth, to restrain the sobbing which, though in¬audible, shook her whole frame. liecovering, by an effort, herself-command, Josephine prepared to pour out the coffee,when Napoleon, advancing to the page, performed the officefor himself, casting upon her a regard remarked even by theattendants, and which seemed to fall with stunning import,for she remained as if stupified. The emperor having drank,IB iriSTOKY Ol’ THE E.MPKKfJ.^ '4hsFI*HI.VE.re cun if J the cup to the page, aud by a sign indicated hiswish to be alone, shutting with his own hand the door of tilesaloon. In the dining-room, separated by this door, thereremained only the count do Beaumont, chief chamberlain,who continued to walk about in silence, and the favouritepersonal attendant of the emperor, both expecting some ter¬rible event—an apprehension which was but too speedilyconfirmed by loud screams from the saloon.We know, from Josephine’s own words, what passed dur¬ing this secret interview. “ I watched in the changing ex¬pression of his countenance, that struggle which was in hissoul. At length, his features settled into stern resolve. 1saw that my hour was come. His whole frame trembled ; lieapproached, and I felt a shuddering horror come over me.He took my hand, placed it upon his heart, gazed upon mefor a moment, then pronounced these fearful words,—' Jo¬sephine ! my excellent Josephine! thou knowest if I haveloved thee! To thee—to thee alone do I owe the only mo¬ments of happiness which I have enjoyed in this world. Jo¬sephine ! my destiny overmasters my will. My dearestaffections must be silent before the interests of France!r—‘ Say no more,’ I had still strength sufficient to reply: ‘ Iwas prepared for this, but the blow is not less mortal.’ More-I could not utter; I cannot tell what passed within me. Ibelieve my screams were loud. I thCught reason had fled.I became unconscious of every thing; aud, on returning tomy senses, found I had been carried to my chamber.”When Josephine thus fainted, Napoleon hastily openedthe door of the saloon, and called to the two individuals who*remained in the dining-room. The opening of the door al¬lowed them to see the empress on the floor, insensible, yetstill speaking in broken murmurs—“ Oh, no! you cannotsurely do it!—von would not kill me!” M. de Beaumontentered on a sign from his master, and lifted in his arms thehapless Josephine, now perfectly unconscious of all that waspassing. The emperor himself, taking a taper from the chim-neypieco, lighted the way through a dark passage, whencethere was a private staircase to the empress’s sleeping-room.HTSTORY (IK Till-. fi-Mi'RKSS .TO'tkPIirNIC; ]$At first, lie had merely said that she had had a nervous attack.but in his increasing ■ agitation alloired ‘Time expressions toescape, whence the count first clearly perceived the nature ofJosephine’s calamity. When they had thus attained theprivate staircase, it appeared too steep and narrow for M. deBeaumont, unassisted, to attempt to bear the empress downwith safety. Napoleon then called the keeper of the port¬folio, whose duty it was to be in constant attendance at thedoor of the cabinet, which also opened upon the corridor.Giving the taper to this attendant, and directing him toprecede, the emperor himself supported Josephine’s limbs,and, descending last, the party thus attained the door of herbedroom. Here Napoleon dismissed both his companions,and laying the empress on the bed, rang for her women, who,on entering, found him hanging over her with an expressionof the deepest anxiety.On the IGth of the following December, Napoleon assem¬bled all the members of the senate, including the kings ofWestphalia and Naples, the grand admiral, the prince viceroyof Italy, the archrehancellor of state, the prince vice-con¬stable, <fco; After the usual ceremonies, a project of a “ Sena-tus Consultum” was read, respecting a dissolution of themarriage between the emperor Napoleon and the empressftowjfffeiie. .ifeino ao payta as»i sari rioirlw noiaovab fwwtThis deed of separation required by tlie two high contract¬ing parties themselves, and approved of by a family council,at which all the princes and princesses of the imperial familythen at Paris had assisted, received, on the same day, the as¬sent of the senate, after having been duly examined by aspecial commission. Jean-Jaques Koais Cambaccres, princearch-chancellor of the empire, then stated;-that, on the pre¬ceding day, he had visited the palace of the Tuillcrics, attend¬ed by Michael Louis Etienne llegnault de St. Jean d’Angelcy,count of the empire, minister of state, and secretary of stateto the imperial family. On being introduced to the grandcabinet of the emperor, he there found his majesty the em¬peror and king, with her majesty the empress, attended bytheir rnajf'Stics the kings of Holland, Westphalia, and Naples.20 HISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.His imperial majesty then addressed him ia a speech in whichhe stated as follows:—“ The politics of my monarchy, theinterests and the wants of my people, which have constantlyguided all my actions, require that after me I should leavechildren, inheritors of my love for my people, and of thatthrone on which Providence has placed me. Notwithstand¬ing this, for several years past I have lost the hope of hav¬ing children by my marriage with my well-beloved consort,the empress Josephine. This circumstance alone inducesme to sacrifice the sweetest affections of my heart, in orderto attend to nothing but the good of the state; and with thisview I now wish the dissolution of my marriage. Arrived atthe age of forty years, I may indulge the hope of living longenough to educate, in my own views and sentiments, the chil¬dren which it may please Providence to give me. God onlyknows how much such a resolution has cost my heart; butthere is no sacrifice beyond my courage, when it is proved tome to be necessary to tire welfare of France.”The empress-queen then spoke as follows:—“ By the per¬mission of our dear and august consort I ought to declare,that not preserving any hope of having children, which mayfulfil the objects of his policy and the interests of France, Iam pleased to afford him the greatest proof of attachmentand devotion which has ever been given on earth. I possessall from his bounty ; it was his hand which crowned me, andseated me on a throne, and I have received nothing but proofsof affection and love from the French people. I think Iprove myself grateful in consenting to the dissolution of amarriage which heretofore was an obstacle to the welfare ofFrance, by depriving it of the happiness of being one day go¬verned by the descendants of a great man, evidently raisedup by Providence to efface the evils of a terrible revolution,and to re-establish the altar, the throne, and social order.But the dissolution of my marriage will in no degree changethe sentiments of my heart. The emperor will ever find inme his best friend. I know how much this act, demanded bypolicy anil by interests of a high nature, has eff ected my heart;but both of us exult in the sacrifice which we make for theHISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE. 21good of the country.” The instrument for dissolving themarriage was then signed by the following personages:—Napoleon, Josephine, Madame, (the mother of Bonaparte)Louis, Jerome Napoleon, Joachim Napoleon, Eugene Napo¬leon, Julie, Hortense, Catherine, Pauline, Caroline.Josephine now withdrew from the palace of the Tuilleries,and retired once more to Malmaison, where she was visiteddaily by Bonaparte until the period of his nuptials.Henceforward, Josephine’s life was passed alternately atMalmaison and Navarre, and, gliding away in an equal tenorof benevolent exertion and elegant employment, offers butfew incidents. A description of one day is the account of all.The villa of Malmaison, to which she first retired, from itsvicinity to Paris, might be regarded as her residence of cere¬mony. Here she received the visits, almost the homage, ofthe members of the court of Napoleon and Maria Louisa;for it was quickly discovered that, however unpleasant theymight be to her new rival, such visits were recommendationsto the emperor’s favour. A little after nine, these receptionstook place; and from the visitors of the morning were retain¬ed, or previously invited, some ten or twelve guests to break¬fast at eleven. From the personages present being alwaysamong the most distinguished in Parisian society, and appear¬ing only in uniform or official costume, these morning partieswere equally agreeable and brilliant. After breakfast, the em¬press adjourned to the saloon, where she conversed for aboutan hour, or walked in tho delightful gallery adjoining, whichcontained many of the masterpieces of painting and sculp¬ture. Of these, a few were ancient, but the greater numberwere the works of living artists, the most distinguished ofwhom were not without obligations to the patronage ofJosephine ; and while Gros, Girodet, Guerin, with theirpencils, Spontini, Mehul, Paer, Boieldieu, with their voice orlyre, Bontanes, Arnault, Andrieu, Lemercier, with their penor conversation, and Canova with his chisel, adorned thegallery or the parties of Malmaison, they ranked among thepersonal friends of the mistress of the retreat. The arrivalof the carriages was the signal for the departure of the morn-22 HISTORY OP THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.iug visitors; and after a drive of a couple of hours in thepark, the empress and her suite retired to dress for dinner,to which never less than from twelve to fifteen strangers satdown. The evening passed in amusement, conversation, andmusic, and was always very gay, owing to the number ofvisitors from Paris. At eleven, tea, ices, and sweetmeatswere served; and at midnight, the empress retired. Theapartments in which these re-unions took place were elegantand spacious, the furniture being covered with needleworkon a ground of white silk, wrought by the empress and herladies; but the residence altogether was small, an inconve¬nience still further increased through Josephine’s venerationof every thing that had been Napoleon’s. The apartmentwhich he had occupied remained exactly as he had left it;she would not suft'er even a chair to be moved, and indeedvery rarely permitted any one to enter, keeping the key her¬self, and dusting the articles with her own hands. On thetable was a volume of history, with the page doubled downwhere he had finished reading; beside it lay a pen with theink dried on the point, and a map of the world, on which hewas accustomed to point out his plans to those in his confi¬dence, and which still shewed on its surface many marks ofhis impatience;—these, Josephine would not allow to betouched on any account. By the wall stood Napoleon’s camp-bed, without curtains; and above continued to hang such ofhis arms as he had placed there. On different pieces of fur¬niture were flung various portions of apparel, just as he hadused them last ; for, among his other extraordinary ways, hehad a practice, on retiring to rest, of flinging rather than tak¬ing off his clothes, casting down a coat here, a vest there,usually pitching his watch into the bed, and his hat andshoes into the farthest corner of the apartment.The close of Josephine’s life is thus described by Dr. Memes:—“A variety of grievances preyed upon Josephine’stspirits,but without producing any appearance of disease till the 4thof May, when she dined at St. Leu with Hortense, Eugene,and the emperor of .Russia. On returning to Malm&ison, shefelt a general uneasiness, which, however, yielded to someHISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.23gen tie medicine, and the empress resumed her ordinary occn- ■patrons, though evidently without the usual enjoyment.Some days after, Lord Beverley, with his two sons, break¬fasted at Malmaison ; and to this nobleman Josephine ex¬pressed herself warmly on the generosity of the English, whoat that time, she said, alone spoke of Napoleon in a becomingmanner. She complained bitterly of the ingratitude of thosewho, not satisfied with abandoning his falling fortunes, over¬whelmed his memory with calumny. On the 10th, Alexander,with several distinguished foreigners, dined at Malmaison.Josephine, despite a headache and cold shiverings, which shelaboured to conceal, did the honours of the table, and in theevening attempted even to take a part in a game of ‘ prison¬ers!’ on the beautiful lawn in front of her residence. Toanxious enquiries, however, she continued to reply, with a faintsmile, which belied the assurance, ‘ that she was only fatigued,and would be well to-morrow.’ To-morrow came, but Jo¬sephine was evidently worse; and for fourteen days, her com¬plaint, without assuming any definite form, or rendering abso¬lute confinement necessary, was frequently attended at nightwith fainting, and sometimes a wandering of the mind, morefrom anxiety than delirium. On the 24th, the empress had aslight attack of sore throat, but otherwise ralied so much as toinsist on receivmg the emperor of llussia and the kingof Prussia,who were engaged to dine with her on that day. She did, ac¬cordingly, appear, but was forced to retire; and Hortense,who never left Malmaison during her mother’s illness, took herplace at table. Thenceforward, the disease assumed a mostalarming character, exhibiting symptoms of a gangrenousquinsy, and its progress became fearfully rapid. On the morn¬ing of the 25th, Alexander returned, and, filled with anxietyat the alteration in Josephine’s appearance, requested per¬mission to send his own physician. This tho empress declin¬ed ; but she was attended by her own, and the two physiciansattached to the households of her son and daughter. On thenight of the 26-27th, a blister wtis applied between the shoul¬ders, and sjnapisms to tl+ofcqtbut though these gave somerelief from pain, they effected no impression ou the disease.24 III.sTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.Still, Josephine, with the same angelic sweetness which hailmarked her whole life, endeavoured, by concealing her suft'er-ing, to soothe the anxiety of her surrounding friends. Fromthe morning of the 26th, she appears to have been perfectlysensible of her clanger; for, looking then steadily upon the phy¬sician, and perceiving his alarm, she silently pressed his handin tokeirof consciousness and acquiescence. She even tookan interest in her former occupations ; and on the 27th, wheninformed that the celebrated flower-painter, Redoubte, hadcome to draw two favourite plants in flower, she sent for him,extended her hand, then pushed him gently away, saying,)‘ You must not catch my sore throat, for no. t week’ (thiswas on Wednesday) ‘ I hope to see you advanced with afresh masterpiece.’ The preceding night had passed in alethargic sleep ; and at ten in the morning of the 28th, thephysicians, after consulting, deemed it proper to prepare;Eugene and Hortense for the final change. From those twotcherished beings, whom she had loved so truly, Josephineheard a communication which thus lost all its bitterness^;With pious resignation she received the last rites of theRomish faith from the ministration of her grandchildren'spreceptor, for the parish clergyman of Ruel happened to heabsent. Late on the same day, the emperor Alexander ar¬rived, and was shewn into the chamber of the sufferer, nowevidently approaching the goal of all her sorrows. By thebed of their mother knelt Eugene and Ilortense, too deeplymoved to address the emperor; but at sight of a monarchwhom she regarded with gratitude, Josephine seemed to ac¬quire renewed strength, made a sign for all to approach, andsaid,—‘At least I shall die regretted ; I have always desinthe happiness of France; I did all in my power to contributeto it; and I can say with truth to all of you now present atmy last moments, that the first wife of Napoleon nevercaused a single tear to flow.’ These were her last words, forshe fell immediately after into a slumber, which continued,uninterrupted by a scarcely audible sigh, till half-past elevenon the morning of the 29th of May, when her gentle spiritcalmly passed to a world of love and peace.”