!NEW AKD IMFEOVED SEKIES,ELIZABETHTHE EXILES OF SIBERIA,GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1851..aaisiv azrosziKi t cA ws'-M.Aixasie 10 'II--Z2 aHT.XITTO1'- .M •• '!THE EXILES OE SIBERIA.Tobolsk, the capital of Siberia, stands on the banks of theriver Irtish, and is surrounded on the north by forests extend¬ing nearly to the Frozen Ocean, while in the space of 1,100versts we meet with mountains arid and rocky, and coveredwith eternal snows—with uncultivated plains, and with streamswhose congealed waters have never fertilized a single meadow,nor beheld the expansion of a single flowret. Advancingnearer the pole, the cedars, firs, and larger trees disappear, tillat length we see nothing but marshes and moss, beyond whichevery trace of vegetation disappears. The Aurora Borealis,however, is frequent and majestic, and, while embracing thehorizon in the form of an arch, columns of moving light issueforth, affording a wonderful spectacle unknown to the inhabi¬tants of the south. To the south extends the circle of Ischim,which is divided from the Kirguis, an idolatrous people, byheaths covered with tombs. It is bordered to the left by theIrtish, a winding river which loses itself on the frontiers ofChina, and to the right is again bordered by Tobol, within anangle of which, at the feet of some rooks topped with firs, standsthe baronial village of Saimka, distant from Tobolsk more than600 versts. In the circle of Ischim (considered the Italy ofSiberia, from its enjoying some days of summer) the rigour ofthe winter is extremely severe. The north wind brings withit such intense cold, that from September the Tobol is filledwith ice, and snow falls incessantly at this time, continuing tocover the earth to the end of May. After this time, indeed,when the sun begins to penetrate the snow, it is wonderful tocontemplate the celerity with which vegetation resumes itsverdure, two or three days only being necessary for nature tounfold all her beauties, and storks, wild ducks, and geese dis¬port themselves on the lakes—the white erane is seen plungingin the marshes, and weaves her nest with the rushes—while theflying squirrel, leaping from one tree to another, nibbles thefluids of the pine and birch. Hence to the natives of thesefrozen regions there belong some happy days, but none for theunfortunate exiles dwelling there.4Two or three versts from Saimka, amidst a marshy forest,upon the edge of a circular lake bordered with poplars, lived afamily of exiles. This household was composed of three indi¬viduals, a man of forty-five, his wife, and their lovely daughter,in the flower of her youth. Enclosed in this desert, this familyhad no communication with any person, and except a poorTartar peasant, who waited on them, no human foot was per¬mitted to enter their cabin. No person knew them, or thecause of theh- punishment, except the governor of Tobolsk.When putting these exiles under the care of his lieutenant atSaimka, the governor only told him to provide them with aconvenient habitation, with a little garden, and food andclothing; but charging him, at the same time, to prevent allintercourse between them and others : and, above all, to inter¬cept any letters they might attempt to convey to the court ofRussia. Attention so particular on the one side, and so muchrigour and mystery on the other hand, made it suspected, thatunder the simple name of Peter Springer was concealed somedistinguished victim of adversity. People now ceased to beconcerned for the fate of beings whom they never saw, andwhom they at length forgot. Peter Springer had been thebuilder of his own cabin, which had been constructed of planks■>{ fir, and covered with straw, and protected by rocks from thenorth wind and the inundations of the lake. Southward of thelake, the forest presented an open coppice, and in the distanceextensive heath covered with tombs which had been violated byplunderers, and the bones of the dead scattered in all direc¬tions. To the east of this plain the Christians had built achapel of wood ; and it is remarkable, that here the ashes ofthe dead had ever been treated with becoming arve ! In thesewilds Peter Springer passed his mornings in the chase everywinter: he killed the elks, and sometimes caught the sable,but more frequently the ermine, which is more plentiful there.He sold the skins of the animals, and bought furniture andbooks for his daughter, who, seated between her parents, readaloud to them passages from history. Springer did not fail toimpress on her soul the beauty and glory of heroism, while hermother, (Phcdora,) directed her feelings to scenes calculated toproduce tenderness of heart, and impressed on her mind thecharms of piety and modest goodness. The consequence ofsuch parental assiduity produced a character at once courageousand feeling—combining all that was noble in honour with allthat was tender in love.In the proper season the culture of the garden occupied thefamily, in the southern part of which he formed a fruit-house,where ho cultivated flowers that were strangers to this region,and when their blossoms opened, lie would say to his daughter,“ Elizabeth, deck thyself with flowers of thy native land, whichresemble thee, and are beautiful even in exile !” Frequentlywould he take her in his arms, and, pressing her to his heart,exclaim, “ Take away this child, Phedora, her distress andthine will destroy me ! ’ ’ When the Sabbath came, however,it was the practice of Phedora (who most regretted that shewas deprived of participating in the offices of her church), topass some portion of this holy day in prayer, before an imageof St. Bazil, whose character she much venerated. Edu¬cated in these savage wilds since her fourth year, Elizabethknew no other country. She felt amused in ascending therocks which bordered the lake to search after the eggs of thesparrow-hawk and white vulture ; sometimes she ensnared thewood-pigeon in her net, or angled for the fish in the lake, whosepurple scales had the appearance of fire, covered with liquidsilver. Her growth was accelerated by the exercise she took,while every day, on her lovely and innocent face some newcharm was developed. At times, when she perceived that herparents were unhappy, she would inquire the cause of theirgrief, when they told her they sorrowed for their country, butnever uttered the name of that country, or the rank they oc¬cupied in it. She often ruminated on her parents’ grief, andimplored the assistance of Omnipotence to find a way for theirrelief, and resolved to tear herself from them, and go on footto St. Petersburgh, to intercede for her father’s liberation ; herconfidence in God animated her heart, and assured her of finalsuccess.Some years were elapsed since, during a winter’s chase, uponthe summit of some rocks by the Tobol, Springer had beendelivered from great danger by the intrepidity of Smoloff, sonof the governor of Tobolsk, who came in the winter to combatthe bears, and hunt the elks and martins among the heaths ofIschim, and the Ural mountains near Saimka. From thistime the name of Smoloff was always held in high esteem bythe family. Three years passed when, one morning in De¬cember, Springer took his musket, and proceeded to hunt inthe Stepp, promising to return before the close of day ; butwhen night approached, he was not returned. In a state ofanxiety and grief Phedora and her daughter set out in searchof him ; approaching towards the plain, Phedora was unable toproceed, and leant against a tree till Elizabeth made furtherresearch. Elizabeth soon reached the plain of tombs, but couldnot find her father; the darkness began to mingle heaven andearth, when she heard the report of a musket not far off, whichrevived her spirits,—she hastened, to the spot, and perceiving a8man stooping, as if looking for something, she cried. “ Myfather! is it you, my father?” The person looked up, andwas surprised at seeing Elizabeth. ‘ ‘I know not your father,”said the stranger, ‘‘but I know that, at such an hour, youought not to be alone on this heath.” ‘‘Ah!” interruptedElizabeth, “ I fear nothing in the world to the dread of notfinding my father.” Saying this, she raised her eyes to hea¬ven, and their mingled expression of dignity and tenderness,courage and softness, at once portrayed all the emotions of hersoul, and seemed prophetic of her destiny. The young strangerwas struck—he had never seen any thing like Elizabeth, norimagined such abeing as her. He inquired her father’s name?“Peter Springer,” answered Elizabeth. “What!” ex¬claimed the stranger, “you are the daughter of the exile of thecabin of the lake ! Tranquillize your mind—I do know yourfather—it is hardly an hour since I parted from him ; he thenturned to go home, and must by this have reached his dwell¬ing.” She could listen to no more, but hastened to the spotwhere she had left her mother with cries of joy. However, hermother was no longer there. She now made the forests ringwith the names of her father and mother; and happily, atlength, voices were heard, hailing her from the borders of thelake. She quickly arrived safe at the threshold of the cabin,where she found her beloved parents, who extended their armsto her, and she threw herself into them. Explanations soonfollowed, and it appeared each returned home by differentways. Elizabeth now perceived the stranger was approaching.He was recognized by her father, who said to him, with deepregret, “ It is very late, M. Smoloff; and you well know I amprohibited from offering you an asylum for a single night.”“ Smoloff 1” exclaimed Elizabeth and her mother together,“ our deliverer ! is it indeed he whom we behold ?” Both fellat his feet. “Smoloff!” said Elizabeth, “ever since yousaved the life of my father, three years ago, we have not passedone day without imploring for you the benediction of heaven !”“ Ah! your prayers have been heard, since Providence hasdirected me here,” said Smoloff, “for the little that I havedone merits not a reward like this.” It was now' late, anddarkness had enveloped the whole forest. For Smoloff to at¬tempt to return Saimka so late at night was dangerous, andSpringer could not refuse the rights of hospitality to his de¬liverer, notwithstanding the strict orders of the governor, andit was at length agreed that Smoloff should remain there tillthe morning.In the morning, by day-light, Smoloff prepared to bid adieuto tho exiles, It was not without regret Elizabeth saw himabout to depart, as she intended to disclose her design to him,and insure his assistance in the prosecution of it, but did notlike to do so before her parents. However, addressing him, shesaid, “Will you not come again, sir? Promise me,” addedshe, “that to-day shall not prove the last in which I am to be¬hold the saviour of my father! ” Her father hearing this, wasseized with secret inquietude—he reminded her of the governor'sorders, and assured her he could not disobey them twice.Smoloff here observed, he was certain of obtaining from hisfather an exemption in favour of his own son, and that he wouldimmediately go to Tobolsk for the purpose. “ But, sir,” saidyoung Smoloff to Springer, “ while asking this favour for my¬self, shall I say nothing to my father for you ? Have younothing to ask?”—“ Nothing, sir,” replied Springer, with anair of gravity. The youth cast his eyes mournfully down, andthen repeated his question to Phedora, who expressed a desirehe might obtain leave for herself and daughter to go everySunday to Saimka to celebrate mass. Smoloff promised to for¬ward this request, and departed, carrying with him the bene¬dictions of the family, and followed by the silent vows ofElizabeth for his speedy return.Since the visit of Smoloff, Springer’s sadness had assumed amore sombre character : the recollection of this youth, so ami¬able, so generous, and courageous, incessantly presented to hismind the husband he could have wished for his daughter; huthis melancholy circumstances precluded the indulgence of suchthoughts; and instead of desiring, he feared Smoloff’s return.Elizabeth, he thought, might be susceptible of tenderness, andfall a prey to the secret sorrows of a hopeless attachment. Onenight, plunged in these reveries, as he sat by the fire, hebreathed deep sighs; Phedora, witnessing his agitation, andfixing her eyes upon him, she implored heaven to inspire herwith such consolations as might obliterate the sense of his mis¬fortunes ; while Elizabeth indulged the hope, that a day wouldcome when they would cease to weep : young Smoloff, shethought, would assist her to compass her end, yet she dreadedthe resistance of her parents. Resolving, however, to makeher project known to them, she prayed to God they might lis¬ten to her petition; and an opportunity soon occurring, sherequested her father to permit her to ask him a few questions ;to which he consented. “The other day,” said Elizabeth,“when Smoloff inquired if you desired nothing, you answeredhim, ‘Nothing!’ Now, is it so, that there is nothing whichyou want?” “Nothing,” replied Springer, “that he couldconfer.” “But who can give,” resumed Elizabeth, “thatwhich you wish?” “Equity, justice!” replied Springer.8“My father,” demanded Elizabeth, “where shall we findthem?” “ Doubtless,” said he, “ in heaven ; but on earth, ne¬ver—never!” On uttering these words, a gloomy anxietyclouded his face, and he let his head fall between his hands.After a pause, Elizabeth renewed the conversation :—“ My fa¬ther, ” said she, “to-day I am seventeen—it was upon this dayI received from you that existence which would be dear to me,if I could devote it to you. O, my parents, pardon the bold¬ness of your daughter : but for once, during her life, she wishesto perform that towards you, which you have never ceased todo respecting her since she was born. Ah! deign at length toimpart to her bosom the secret which preys within your own ?”“ What do you require of me ?” said Springer. “ I require,”said she, “ that you would instruct me in whatever it concernsme to learn, for the purpose of testifying my affection to you.”She now fell on her knees, and raised her eyes with all the ex¬pressiveness of supplication. So grand, so noble a sentimentnow beamed from her eyes, filled with tears, and the heroism ofher soul shed something so divine on the humility uf her atti¬tude, that Springer instantly saw the part his daughter meantto take. Oppressed at heart, he could neither speak nor weep,but remained motionless, as if in the presence of an angel—and that spirit which kings could not intimidate, became weakat the voice of his child, and could not resume its wontedstrength. “ Why,” said Phedora to her husband, “do yourefuse to confide our secret to her? Do you apprehend thatthe soul of our Elizabeth will be affected to weakness by thereverses we have seen ?”—“ No,” replied Springer, “it is nother weakness that I fear!” Elizabeth, at these words, foundshe was understood by her father, and she pressed his hand insilence, that she might be comprehended by him only, for sheknew her mother’s tender heart, and wished to procrastinatethe moment of an afflicting explanation. “Elizabeth,” said'her father, “yon have this day effaced twelve years of adver¬sity.” “ While such sentiments,” replied she, “ are expressedhere, never say that you cannot find happiness on earth.Speak, then, dear father, and let me know your real name,what your country, and what your griefs?” “ Misfortunes,”said he, "are now no more, my country is that where I residewith thee, my name, the happy father of Elizabeth.”—*1 O, mychild !” interrupted Phedora, “ I can now love you still more ;you came to bo the consolation of your father.” These wordsentirely overcame the remaining resolution of Springer; haclasped his wife and daughter in his arms, crying, “ God for-give me—I have been ungrateful, but punish me not!”When the violence of this emotion had subsided, Springer pro-9miaed to give her what information she wished, after a fewdays.Elizabeth now began to try her strength upon the heaths atIschim ; in all weathers she sallied out, and accustomed her¬self, by degrees, to brave the opposing elements. The wintersof Siberia are subject to sudden storms. One morning in Jan¬uary Elizabeth had the misfortune to be overtaken by a tem¬pest of this description. She had reached the plain of Tombs,near a little chapel of wood, which she entered, and knelt beforethe altar, offering her prayers to heaven to spare her, that shemight effect the deliverance of her parents.This very day Smoloff had returned from Tobolsk, and hisfirst care was to visit the exiles, where he was authorised tocommunicate to Phedora the indulgence she had asked. Onentering, young Smoloff looked in vain for Elizabeth. “Eliza¬beth!” exclaimed Phedorah, “what is become of my Eliza¬beth ?” This fond mother had thus disclosed what Smoloff wasmost anxious to learn. Springer in silence took his staff, andopened the door, to go in search of his daughter. Smoloff in¬stantly followed. As they entered the forest, Smoloff inquiredon which side they should go? “Towards the great heath,”answered Springer; “ it is thither she goes every day, and Ihope she has taken refuge in the chapel.” They intrepidlyproceeded on their way, bending and turning to avoid the fall¬ing branches and the rocky fragments which the tempest hurledround their heads. At length they arrived at the woodenchapel, where they found Elizabeth sweetly asleep at the foot ofthe altar. Springer bent over the face of his child—the youngman modestly kissed her eyes, and then retired, as if not dar¬ing too nearly' to contemplate such divine innocence. Elizabethawoke, and threw herself into her father’s arms, exclaiming,“Ah! I was convinced that you would watch over me.” “Un¬happy child,” said Springer, “into what agonies have youplunged your poor mother and myself!’ ’ ‘ ‘ My father,” repliedElizabeth, “pardon me those tears, and let us hasten to effacethem.” Rising up, she saw Smoloff, “Ah!” cried she, withsweet surprise, “ all my protectors, then, watch over me—God,my father, and you.” Smoloff was affected at these words; hisheart was ready to escape. " You talked of returning to yourmother,” observed Springer, “ but think for yourself if that bepossible.” “ Let us try,” replied she ; “ I have greater strengththan you would believe, and I am very glad you have an op¬portunity to ascertain it, and that you will see what I can doto console my mother.” Leaning on her father and Smoloff, sheproceeded homeward. On their arrival, Phedora embraced allthree, blessing God they were returned. Smoloff was much10affected by witnessing these tender and maternal cares whichElizabeth received, and he felt it impossible to love Elizabethwithout being attached to her mother also—and the felicity ofbeing the husband of that lovely girl included the happiness ofbeing the son of Phedora. The night now approached, thestorm being past, Springer took the hand of Smoloff, and, withmingled kindness and grief, reminded him it was proper to go.Elizabeth now first discovered that he was visiting them for thelast time—“ What,” said she, “ shall I never see you more ?”“Ah!” replied Smoloff, with great vivacity, ‘‘as long as Iremain free, and you continue to inhabit these deserts, I willnot again, quit Saimka; I will see you at the church, in theforest, on the plain, and on the banks of the river—I will seeyou everywhere.” From this Elizabeth foresaw the possibilityof being enabled to confide to him her design, and beheld himdepart with diminished pain.The next Sunday Elizabeth and her mother set out to Saimka,guided by their Tartar lad, and the weather being fine, the dis¬tance appeared short. On entering the church, all eyes wereturned towards them, but their regard was directed to the Su¬preme object of their devotion. When Elizabeth raised herhead, Smoloff was the first object that met her view; he wasleaning against a pillar, with his eyes fixed on her. Whenquitting the church, Smoloff offered to take them back in hissledge, to which Phedora gladly consented ; but not so Eliza¬beth, who was inwardly chagrined at not having an opportunityto whisper her wishes to Smoloff. The sledge soon reached theborders of the forest, when Smoloff declared he could proceed nofurther. Phedora first alighted, and, while giving him her hand,said, ‘‘Do you not walk here sometimes? At this junctureher daughter, who alighted next, added, in a low and hurriedtone of voice, “ Not here ; but to-morrow, in the little chapelon the plain.” The next day she went to the chapel, but foundnot Smoloff there—she entreated of heaven that her uncer¬tainty might not be prolonged. While supplicating relief fromon high, Smoloff hastily arrived, and was surprised to find Eliza¬beth there before him. When Elizabeth saw Smoloff, she ex¬claimed—“Ah, sir ! with what impatience have I waited for yourcoming.” These words, her expressive looks, the meeting it¬self, the exactness of her keeping it, all confirmed the youth inthe persuasion that she loved him ; so that he was about to de¬clare his affection, had she allowed him ; but she prevented himby saying—“M. de Smoloff, hear mo 1 I have need of you, inorder to save my father; promise mo your support. Thesesimple w’ords confounded the young man; perplexed and confused,he betrayed his mistake, but did not value Elizabeth the less.11Falling on his knees, he swore to obey. She then proceeded asfollows :—“Ever since I can recollect myself, myparentshaveen-tirely engrossed my mind : their love has been my only trea¬sure ; their happiness has been the entire object of my life. Myparents are miserable. God has called me to relieve them,and sent you here to assist me in fulfilling this destiny. I de¬sire to repair to St. Peterburgh, and solicit the pardon of myfather.” His attitude here betrayed his surprise, as if he in¬clined to discourage her.—“ Smoloff,” resumed Elizabeth, “ Icannot tell you at what period this idea first took possession ofmy soul—it appears to me as though I received it with my life—it is the first impression I can remember to have had, and it neverhas quitted me. It is this that always occupied me when nearyou, and that has at present conducted me to you. This hasinspired me with a fortitude that fears neither fatigue nor re¬bukes, nor misery nor death.”Though the tender hopes of Smoloff had, during this dis¬course, entirely vanished, still he was bewildered in admiration,and the heroism of Elizabeth drew into his eyes tears scarcelyless soothing than those of love. “Happy,” cried he, “tenthousand times happy am I, that you have chosen to revealyour plan to me, in order to assist it, but you are not aware ofall the obstacles to its execution.” “ There are only two ob¬stacles,” said Elizabeth, “ I am ignorant of the route which Ishould take; and I am not assured that my flight would notinjure my father. It is necessary, first, that you should directme as to the road, point out the towns through which I mustpass, the hospitable establishments that will relieve me, andthe most certain means of preferang my petition to the em¬peror ; and, before all things, you must answer me, that yourfather will not punish mine during my absence.” Smoloff nowinformed Elizabeth, how the emperor was irritated against herfather, and promised to communicate the information shewanted. On expressing his doubts of her ability to Havel 3500versts on foot, without aid, she replied, “ that Being who sentme to succour my parents will not abandon me! ” At thesewords Smoloff shed tears, telling her she must wait till the finedays ere she set out, as at present it was impracticable. “ Iknow,” said he, “ that in your breast there is no place for anyother sentiment than that which now engrosses you; but shouldever the period arrive when your parents, restored to theircountry, are themselves happy, and you content, then recol¬lect that in these deserts Smoloff saw and loved you, and thathe preferred a residence here, though obscure and poor, withElizabeth, the daughter of an exile, before all the glories whichthe world could proffer! ” He could utter no more, and Eliza-12beth stood motionless. She now walked towards the door, andwas about to quit the chapel, while Smoloff exclaimed—“Eliza¬beth ! have I offended you ? Ah! I call God to witness, thatthough my heart beats with love towards you, it feels also themost profound respect. How then have I offended you ? ”—‘ ‘ Youhave not, ” replied she mildly ; “ but I came here to speak toyou only on behalf of my parents—now that you have listenedto me, I have nothing more to say, and am going to them.”He then promised to confide to her the following Sunday at thechurch at Saimka, all the information and documents whichshe would require for the execution of her plan, and they parted.When Sunday came, Elizabeth and her mother went toSaimka, but Smoloff was not there : an old woman informedthem he was gone to Tobolsk, at which Elizabeth changedcolour, feeling much disappointed. Two months elapsed with¬out seeing Smoloff at Saimka, and Elizabeth concluded he hadforgotten her. One morning when Springer and his daughterwere in the garden, the young Tartar ran towards them, cryingout—“ M. de Smoloff is here,”—‘‘Oh my father,” said Eliza¬beth, “thy happy, happy daughter will break thy chains—God has called me to the undertaking, and sent Smoloff toclear the path for me!” On entering the room they weresurprised to see a man about 50 years of age, in uniform, andattended by officers. This was the governor of Tobolsk, who,on seeing Springer, bade his attendants withdraw. He nowaddressed Springer as follows :—“ Sir, since the moment youwere sent here by the court of Russia, this is the first time Ihave visited this circle : the occasion is pleasant to me, as itenables me to testify to an illustrious exile how much I sym¬pathise with his misfortunes.” Springer replied, he expectednothing from man—he did not wish for pity, nor hope for jus¬tice, but could pass his days in these deserts without complain¬ing. The governor said, ‘ ‘ Ah, sir, for a man like you to liveso far from your country, is a dreadful destiny.” “It is yetmore dreadful,” replied Springer, “to die so far from it. ” Eliza¬beth looked over her mother’s shoulder to ascertain if the airand physiognomy of the governor were expressive of benevo¬lence and goodness that she might speak to him. The governorseeing her, said, “ Young lady, my son is known to you—youhave made an indelible impression on him.”—“Did he tell you,sir, that she owes the life of her father to him? ” interruptedPhedora.. “ No madam, but ho has told me she would giveher own for her father and for you.” “She would,” saidSpringer, ‘ ‘ and her affection and tenderness are the only trea¬sure now left.” The governor turned aside to conceal hisemotions, and shortly informed Elizabeth that his son had been13commanded by the Emperor to join the army assembling inLivonia; at his departure he conjured me to convey this letterto you, but as I could not intrust it with another I havebrought it myself. ” Elizabeth blushed as she took it. Eliza¬beth consequently gave the letter to her father to read aloud :—smoloff’s letter.“ One of the most lively regrets that I feel in quittingSaimka, madam, arises from my not being able to explain toyou the obligation which compels me to leave you. I couldneither see nor write to you, nor send the instructions you de¬manded, without violating my father’s orders and risking hissafety; though, perhaps, I should have done both, but for theexample you set me. When, however, I had so recently learnedfrom you how much we owe to a father, I could not hazard thelife of m\r own ; yet I freely confess I did not love my duty asyou love yours, and returned to Tobolsk with a heavy heart.My father informs me that an order from the Emperor appointsme to a station 1000 leagues hence, and that I must instantlyobey it. lam going: you know not what I suffer.—Ah! Ido not implore of heaven that you should know.“ I have opened my heart to my father; I have seen histears flow, as I told him your design : I believe that he willsee you, that he will go expressly to visit the circle of Ischim.If he can, he will have this letter conveyed to you. Elizabeth,I depart more tranquil since I have placed you under the pro¬tection of my father; but, I conjure you, do not avail yourselfof that protection to set out before my return, which I hopewill be in less than a year. I will conduct you to St. Peters-burgh ; I will present you to the Emperor; I will watch overyou and guard you during the tedious journey. Do not fearmy love for you, I will never mention it again : I will be onlyyour friend. I will be your brother only; and although I shallobey you with all the ardour of passion, I swear never again tospeak a language to you which shall not be pure as innocence,as angels are—as you are.”Beneath was the following postscript, in the hand writingof the Governor:“No, madam; you ought not to set out with my son. I doubtnot his honour, but yours ought to be beyond all possibility ofsuspicion. In exhibiting to the court of Russia virtues too noble,too touching to be unsuccessful, it must not be said that youwere conducted by your lover, and thus tarnish the sublimestact of filial piety that ever adorned human nature. In yoursituation there are no other protectors but God and your father.Your father cannot follow you ; God will not desert you. Rc-Hligion will lend you its torch and its support—trust wholly toit: you know to whom I have granted permission that yourcabin shall bo accessible. In confiding this paper to you, Irender you the arbiter of my fate: for if it were disclosed, if itwere suspected that I had facilitated your departure, I shouldbe undone for ever. But, I have no fears; I know to whom Itrust. I know all that may be expected from the intrepidityand virtue of a daughter, who has learned to devote her life toher father.”When the letter was read, Elizabeth implored her motherparticularly to consent to her undertaking the journey, butPlied ora could not be brought to accede to her request. “Mymother,” said Elizabeth, “ God has given me the power of re¬storing you to happiness, and do not oppose yourself to themission that heaven has confided to me. Dangers there arcnone, and my excursions among the heaths have inured me tothe fatigue of long walking, and to bear the cold. Is it inex¬perience you dread ? I shall not be alone; remember the wordsand the letter of the governor. How many great men, pre¬cipitated from the pinnacle of glory, have implored pardon forthemselves? Happier than all, I implore it only for my father.”Her noble firmness, that divine pride which glowed in her looks,as she otfered to humble herself for her parents, at last subdued ■Springer, and he felt willing that she should go—but, for thefirst time in her life, Phedora opposed the authority of herhusband in the exclaiming, “ Shall I let my Elizabeth depart,to hear that sho perished with cold and want in the deserts ? ”Elizabeth now promised not to go without her mother’s con¬sent; “but,” said she, “perhaps God will obtain from youwhat you deny my father and myself, and oh, let us imploreHim for his counsel, who is the light that guides, and thostrength that sustains.” The next day, Springer being alonewith his daughter, he related to her the history of his familyand misfortunes, which filled her mind with astonishment, andher eyes with tears. “My greatest crime, said he, “ was mydevotedness to Poland, my dear, dear country, whose monarchssprung from tho same stock as myself.—I defended her causeagainst tho three great powers, at the head of a mere handfulof noble Poles, under the walls of Warsaw, but we were com¬pelled to submit—our feeble hands could not shake off ourchains. The possessions of my ancestor’s were in that partwhich fell under the domination of Russia, and for my exertionsin defence of my country, I was torn from my paternal estateto suffer imprisonment and banishment. Phedora followed roe,and the permission to bo confined with me was the only favourshe could obtain, and what few happy moments I have enjoyed15I owe to your mother aud you my beloved daughter.”—Springernow returned her Smoloff s letter, observing, “if I am destinedto owe to your zeal and intrepidity the restoration of possessions,which I no longer desire but to heap on you, this letter willcall to memory our benefactors ; your heart, Elizabeth, shouldbe grateful, and the alliance of virtue may honour even theblood of kings.” The maiden pressing the letter to her heart,said, “ The remembrance of him who mourned for you willnever quit me.”—During several days no further mention wasmade of Elizabeth’s journey. Her mother had not yet consented;but from the melancholy of her looks, it was evident that in herheart consent prevailed.On Sunday evening, the family were at prayers, when theyheard somebody knock with a staff. Springer opened the door :Phedora exclaimed, “ Alii my God! here is the person whosecoming was announced, and who is to take away our daughter!”She fell, weeping, with her face upon the table. The mis¬sionary entered: a large white beard descended upon his breast,his countenance had a mournful expression, and he seemed bentwith fatigues rather than with years.“ Sir,” said he, “ I enter your cabin with joy: the benedic¬tion of God is upon it. I know that it contains wealth moreprecious than pearls and gold. I come to solicit a night’s re¬pose here.” Elizabeth eagerly placed a seat for him. “ Youngdamsel,” said he, “you are far advanced in the career of vir¬tue, and iu your very first steps you have left us far behind.”As he sat down, he heard the sobs of Phedora. “ Christianmother,” said he to her, “why weepest thou? May you notsay that you are happy among women ? And if you shed tearsbecause virtue separates you from your child awhile, whatshould those mothers feel who are divided from their childrenby vice, and who lose them eternally 1 ” “ Oh, my father 1 ifI should never see her again.” “ You would see her again,”replied he warmly, ‘ ‘ in heaven, which is already her dowry ;but you will also see her again on earth. The fatigues aregreat, but God will support her—He tempers the wind to theshorn lamb ! ”—After the evening repast, the good monk sur¬veyed them with tender compassion—he had seen many sor¬rows, and the art of soothing them was the study of his life.He related his long journeys, and the disasters he had witness¬ed, making the exiles to consider, that in comparison of suchmiseries theirs were but light During the evening, the goodfather informed the exiles, that he was returning on foot intoSpain, his native country, and had yet to traverse throughKussia, Germany, and France. He had for years travelledover deserts, where he found no shelter but a cave, no pillowllibut a stone, and no food but rice-flour and water. He thoughthimself at the end of his labours on arriving among civilizednations.Next morning, Elizabeth arose with the dawn, and found anopportunity of speaking in private with father Paul—she re¬lated on her knees the history of her life, a tender recital com¬posed only of her affection for her parents. Her parents didnot know it was her intention to quit them the next day.When evening arrived, Elizabeth, on her knees, begged of herparents to bless her. Her father approached while the tearsran down his cheeks : she stretched forth her arms—he under¬stood this as her farewell; the current of his feelings waschecked—and placing his hands on the head of Elizabeth, herecommended her to God in his thoughts, but without the powerof articulating a word. The maiden then looked at her mo¬ther, and said—“And you, my mother! will not you also blessyour child?”—“To-morrow” answered she, in a tone of de¬spair. “And why not to-day also, my dear mother?” “Ah!yes,” exclaimed Phedora, rushing towards her, “everyday!every day! ” Elizabeth bent her head before her parents, who,with united hands, upraised eyes, and trembling voices, pro¬nounced that benediction which Heaven surely heard. Mean¬while the missionary, with his crucifix in his hand, was offer¬ing up his prayers some paces off—it was virtue praying forinnocence!It was now towards the end of May, when between the twi¬light and day-break there are scarce two hours of night.Elizabeth being quite ready for the journey, awoke the mis¬sionary early in the morning, and to prevent the pain of part¬ing with her parents, she proposed to Father Paul to set offbefore they arose, which he acceded to. When a short wayfrom the cabin, she fell on her knees, imploring the Almightyto protect her parents. On turning round, she beheld herfather near her. “Oh, my father,” said she, “are you here?”“ I am here,” said he, “ to bless you once again before youdepart," and to the missionary ho observed—“ I intrust toyou a treasure that is dearer than my life. Depart together,and may guardian angels protect you !” A whole month wasconsumed in crossing the forest of Siberia. About 40 verstsfrom Tinouen they came to a wood, where some posts indi¬cated the termination of the government of Tobolsk. Theyproceeded to the city of Perm, which is environed with marshes,presenting a melancholy aspect. They sometimes met withempty cars, and obtained leave, for a few copecks, to ascendthe vehicles. They reached the banks of the Kama early inSeptember, and had nearly performed one half of their journey,17'5?wken the health of the missionary began to decline: he wasfrequently obliged to rest himself, and if he got into a kibick,he could not bear the jolting. Arriving at Sarapoul, the goodman was so weak, he could proceed no further. They werereceived at a miserable inn ; the flooring of his room trembledunder the feet—the window had no glass, and there was neitherchair nor bench. Elizabeth felt for the first time alarmed, andinquired for a doctor, but there was none at Sarapoul. Thepeople of the house taking no concern for the dying man, shetrusted to herself for aid. Night approaching, he grew worse,and Elizabeth could no longer refrain from tears.“ My child,” said he, ‘‘you will shortly be exposed to greatdifficulties, in travelling alone, in the midst of an inclementseason—but this will form your least danger—your greatestmust be expected at the court. Ordinary courage may struggleagainst misfortune, yet prove unable to resist seduction. Yourcourage, however, is not of an ordinary cast; and hence yourresidence at court may not change you. But should any villainthere attempt to avail himself of your situation and your mis¬fortune, in order to corrupt you, confide not in his promises,nor be dazzled by his munificence. The fear of God and thelove of your parents are above all things—and never forget,that one single error would be death to those who gave youlife.” ‘‘Ah, my father,” interrupted Elizabeth, ‘‘do not beafraid.” ‘‘ I am not afraid,” said he, “your piety and virtuedemand full confidence. Now, my daughter, take from mygarment the purse I received from the generous governor ofTobolsk ; keep his secret, for on that depends his life ! Thismoney will convey you to Petersburgh ; when arrived there,go to the Patriarch, and mention Father Paul to him. Per¬haps, not having forgotten me, he will grant you an asylum ina convent of females ; and will doubtless present your petitionto the Emperor. At the point of death, I may now be per¬mitted to tell you, my daughter, that your virtue is great, andwill receive a recompence here, as well as be rewarded in hea¬ven.” He was now compelled to pause, and Elizabeth wept insilence. He now raised his eyes to heaven, and appeared stillin prayer when struck with death.Elizabeth’s cries brought several persons into the room, whoasking her what was the matter, she pointed to her lifeless pro¬tector. The news being spread, many came to see what waspassing, from mere curiosity, and looked with surprise atElizabeth weeping over the dead monk. Some there were whocontemplated her with pity, while the proprietors of the innseized the purse, which Elizabeth, in her grief, had forgottento secure. They told her, they would pay themselves, and re-18turn the residue. In a short time a number of priests camewith their torches and attendants, and threw a large pall overthe dead body, at which Elizabeth uttered a cry of grief. In themeanwhile the funeral dirges were begun, and they placed thecorpse in the coffin. As soon as Elizabeth saw they were pro¬ceeding to remove the body, she resolved to attend to the gravethe remains of her friend. They proceeded with a torch ofstraw in their hand, while Elizabeth walked slowly behind, themost sincere mourner on the melancholy occasion. The bury¬ing ground was at the foot of an acclivity on the right bank ofthe Kama, surrounded by the ruins of a fortress. Elizabethdid not retire from this place till the close of the day—she weptand prayed, and found relief. ‘ ‘ Father! mother 1 ” she ex¬claimed, “ fear nothing—your child will not despair!” Thusdid she, in a state of destitution, console herself. Before Eliza¬beth left the spot, she pronounced a tender adieu to the ashes ofthe poor monk. The next day, when she wished to resume herjourney, the landlord gave her three rubles, or about twelveshillings and sixpence, assuring her it was all that remained inthe monk’s purse. Elizabeth received the trifle with gratitude,thinking it had descended from heaven, whither her friend hadgone. “Ah!” exclaimed Elizabeth, when about to pursueher solitary journey, “ my guide and my support! it is thusyour charity survives you, and though you are no longer nearme, it is that which still sustains me! ”She journeyed slowly on, and did not reach Cassan till to¬wards the beginning of October. There was much ice accumu¬lated on the shores of the Volga, so as to render its passagedangerous. The w atermen would not venture over without aconsiderable reward, nor would any passenger attempt to gowith them. Elizabeth wished to enter one of the beats, butthey pushed her aside as if she wrero insane. She imploredthem, in the name of God, to assist her in crossing the river:“ I have come from Tobolsk, and am going to Petersburgh tosolicit my father’s pardon from the Emperor, and have so littlemoney, that should I remain fifteen days longer at Cassan, Ishould have none left for the remainder of my journey. ’ ’ Thesewords affected one of the boatmen, who said he would try toget her over. She entered his boat, when he rowed about onehalf across the river, but not being able to get further, he tookher on his shoulders, and walked along the ice, with an oar, tillhe reached the opposite side of the Volga. Elizabeth thankedhim in the fulness of her heart, and drew forth her purse toreward him ; but he would not accept of any thing from herlittle stock—he threw her a piece of money to increase it, andhurried to his boat, exclaiming—“ God watch over thee, my girl!”19During her journey, Elizabeth sometimes saw wretched be¬ings, chained two and two, who were being conveyed to the minesof Nertshink, to labour till death. She was overtaken by atempest ; and when stopped by a band of robbers, she showedthem the boatman’s piece of money, being all she had thenleft; she was unharmed, one of the party exclaiming—“ Leaveher alone, for God is near her.” Elizabeth now hastened ontill she came to a convent of nuns, to whom she told her taleof sorrow. Here she found a temporary asylum and assistance;and after returning her grateful thanks, she set off on the roadto Moscow, which she found crowded with people, in carriages,sledges, and on foot. Meanwhile the ringing of bells washeard, and on every side the name of the Emperor sounded inthe ears of Elizabeth. On inquiring the cause of all this, shewas informed, it was on account of the Emperor’s entry intoMoscow, where he is to be crowned. Elizabeth now felt over¬joyed, while she thought the time was near when she hoped toobtain from the Emperor her father’s pardon Elizabeth en¬tered the immense capital of Muscovy in March, 1801, believingherself at the end of all her troubles, and not imagining thatshe could encounter fresh calamities. As she proceeded alongthe city, she rested for a moment in the great walk. The peo-j plo walking there talked much of the coronation. The tumultI was great towards the Kremlin, where large fires were lighted—Elizabeth approached one of them, and sat down timidly bythe side of it. Exhausted with cold and fatigue, the joy whichfilled her heart in the morning was turned to melancholy, for,in traversing the streets, she could nowhere find an asylum.She knocked at the doors of some of the meaner habitations,and was everywhere repulsed. The hope of making consider¬able gain, dui-ing the festival, had steeled the heart of the pet¬tiest innkeeper of the place. She consequently returned tothe fire in the Kremlin. She wept in silence, and had notstrength to eat a bit of broad given her by an old woman.The crowd began to ditainish, and the fires to decay ; whenthe guard of the palace-gates came to her, asking her why sheremained there. The maiden said she had come from Tobolsk,to solicit from the Emperor her father’s pardon, and had per¬formed the journey on foot, and, being without money, noperson would receive her. The soldiers accused her of false¬hood, and the girl being alarmed, wished to escape, but thesoldiers held her. Many people coming up, expressed theirdisapprobation of the severity of the soldiers, while Elizabethswore by the name of heaven that she had told the truth, andbegged they would save her till she had accomplished hererrand. Her appeal reached every heart, and a lodging was20offered by an innkeeper, who was touched with pity for her.The soldiers offering no further opposition, she followed himto his house, where she was most kindly treated. The land¬lord offered to assist her in the accomplishment of her purpose!on the following day, when the Emperor would be crowned inthe church of Assumption. In the morning, discharges otartillery, beating of drums, and shouts of joy announced thecommencement of the day’s festivity. Elizabeth, dressed inclothes her hostess had lent her, and leaning on the arm oilhonest Rossi, (her host,) proceeded till they entered the churchwhere Alexander was to be crowned. Seated on a brilliantthrone, surmounted with a rich canopy, were seen the Emperor iand his august bride. The princess received from his handsthe imperial crown, and with this superb pledge of their uniongirded her modest brow. Opposite to them, the venerable'Platoff, the patriarch of Moscow, reminded Alexander, fromthe chair of truth, of the duties belonging to kings, and the.responsibility which God imposed on them, as countervailing,the power and splendour he bestowed. “Master of the greatestempire in the universe,” said he, “thou who art about to swearthat thou wilt watch over the destinies of a kingdom containingone-fifth of the globe, never forget that thou hast to answer be-;fore God for the fate of so many millions of men, and that anyinjustice done to the least among them, which thou mightestprevent, will be visited upon thee at the day of judgment.”Just after Alexander had pronounced the oath, by which hebound himself to devote his existence to the happiness of hispeople, Elizabeth could no longer restrain herself; but burstingthrough the crowd with a supernatural energy, she rushed to¬wards the throne, exclaiming—“ PARDON ! PARDON 1 ”This cry, which interrupted the ceremony, occasioned a con¬siderable murmur, and some guards dragged Elizabeth out ofthe church, in spite of her friend. Alexander, however, onsuch an occasion, wished not to be implored in vain ; he there-fore sent an officer to know what the woman wanted. Theofficer hastened along, saw her, and knew her, and exclaimed,“ It is Elizabeth.” She looked at him in silence, and recog¬nized Smoloff — they rushed into each other’s arms. Henow proposed to present her to the Emperor himself, and con¬ducted her back to the church at the very moment the imperialprocession was departing through the great door. Directlythe Emperor came near, SmolofF approached him, holdingElizabeth by the hand, and throwing himself on his knees,while she did the same, exclaimed—” Sire 1 deign to hear mo—hear the voice of misfortune and of virtue. You now beholdthe daughter of the unhappy Stanislaus Potowsky, arrived21from the deserts of Ischim, where her parents have languishedin exile for twelve years. Alone, she has performed the journeyon foot, braving every misery to come here, and implore atyour feet her father's pardon 1” Elizabeth raised her suppli¬cating hands, repeating, “ My father’s pardon!” There wasa unanimous cry of admiration among the crowd. Alexanderwas himself struck, and though he had strong prejudices againstStanislaus Potowsky, they now vanished. “ Tour father isfree,” said he; “ I grant you his pardon.” Elizabeth couldhear no more—at the very sound of pardon, a sense of joyoverpowered her, and she fell senseless into the arms of Smoloff.She was borne away through the crowd of people, who applaudedthe virtue of the heroine, and the clemency of the monarch, tothe house of the good James Rossi, where she recovered hersenses, and where the first object she recognized was Smoloff,kneeling at her side. In a little time she uttered the namesof her father and mother—‘‘We shall behold them again,”said she, “we shall enjoy their happiness.” These wordspenetrated to the young man’s soul. Several days passed be¬fore the -pardon could be authenticated. One morning Smoloffvisited Elizabeth earlier than usual, when he presented a parch¬ment to her, sealed with the imperial seal. “ Here,” said he,“ is the Emperor’s order to my father to restore your’s to li¬berty.” Elizabeth seized the parchment, pressed it to her lips,and covered it with tears. “But this is not all,” addedSmoloff, “he also restores him to his rank and wealth; thecourier who carries this order sets off to-morrow, and I have toaccompany him.” “And shall not I accompany him too?”“ Doubtless,” replied Smoloff, “ what other mouth than thinehas the right of telling your father that he is free ? Certainof your intention, I mentioned it to the Emperor, and he said,to-morrow you might set off.” She looked at Smoloff, saying,“ Ever since I first saw you, you have been the author of ailmy benefits.” Before she left Moscow, our heroine recom¬pensed the hospitality of Rossi; nor did she, in passing theVolga, forget the benevolent boatman, whom she rewarded withan hundred rubles. When she arrived at Sarapoul, she visitedthe grave of the venerable missionary; she now felt as if thepoor monk, from the height of heaven, rejoiced to see herhappy. Tobolsk being the next stage, Smoloff conducted herto his father, from whom she received a most kind reception,and high commendation for her magnanimity. She next wentwith Smoloff to visit her parents. O, how her heart throbbedas she crossed the forest; seeing her paternal cabin, she springsforward—she hears the voices which she knew—her heart beats.—her head swims—she called her parents—the door opened,22and slie fell into their arras. “ There she is,” cried Smoloff,“she brings your pardon with her—she has triumphed overall—she has obtained all.” They were lost in a delirium ofjoy. Smoloff fell at the feet of the exiles and said, “ Elizabethhas hitherto called me her brother, but, at your knees, perhaps,she will allow me to aspire to another name.” Her parentsreadily consented to the union, pouring their blessings on thevirtuous pair, while Smoloff leaned his face, bathed with tears,on the lap of Elizabeth, not thinking that, even in heaven, itwas possible to be happier than he was; meanwhile the damselfelt equal felicity in her good fortune.THE LOVE OF HOME.It was near the close of an afternoon in the early part ofMay, that a gentleman, travelling slowly and on horseback ina retired part of the country, observed the decisive indicationsof an approaching storm which were visible in the heavens, andbegan to look out with no little anxiety for a lodging whichmight receive him for the night. For some time his wisheswere vain, and he rode several miles over a lone and unfre¬quented road in which ho was travelling, without much prospectof a shelter from the rain, whose drops were beginning to fall,and from the wind which was fast rising into a furious gale. Atlast, however, he emerged from a long and dreary wood, audhis eye sparkled as the view opened upon a beautiful valley,through which his road wound, and in a distant part of whichwas pleasantly situated a farm-house of unusually cheerful andhappy appearance. The numerous and extensive out-buildingswith which it was associated, the fields which surrounded it, theforests in tho back ground, and the distant hills which com¬pleted the view, would, had it not been for the gloomy influenceof the weather, have constituted an enchanting picture. As itW'as, it promised him relief from his uncomfortable situation,and as he approached the dwelling, all the discontented thoughtswith which his dreary ride had inspired him, were banished bytho bright light which shone from the windows, and the pros¬pect of comfort and enjoyment which it afforded within. Howas met in the spacious yard by the master of the household,who gave him a hearty welcome; and the master and his guestentered the dwelling together.They came into a room which, as appeared from the happyfaces of the family, and the preparations for supper which weregoing forward, was answering the double purpose of kitchenand parlour. The mother of the family and her daughter werebusy together at a b<ick part of the room; iu a corner were tworuddy-cheeked children, amusing themselves by drawing pic¬tures upon a slate; a third was reading aloud from a littlebook ; and a fourth, younger than the rest, was playing with adog and a cat upon the floor. These occupations were interruptedby the entrance of the stranger, and all seemed pleased to seehim. The traveller sat down by the fire, and began to playwith the children, which he gathered around him. Warmthwas soon restored to his limbs, and gladness to his heart.The arrival of a stranger was, in this 1’etircd place, one ofthose remarkable occurrences which occasion an alteration inthe usual family arrangements; and after a fire had beenkindled in the front room, the traveller, together with thechildren and their father, resorted thither. The preparationsfor their evening repast were soon completed. All took theirseats, the blessing of heaven was solemnly implored, and thelittle circle partook of their food in gratitude and love.The short evening passed rapidly away in this happy do¬mestic circle, and at an early hour the father gave notice thatit was time for their customary evening devotions. The familycollected their Bibles, and gathered around the bright firewhich was glowing upon the hearth. The traveller wasseated at one corner, at another were the father and mother,reading the sacred volume, and the children arranged themselvestogether in pairs, with their backs to the fire, that its stronglight might shine upon the books they were to read.At a notice from their father, the youngest began, and in aslow artless manner, read one verse of a chapter; the next andthe next continued; the mother, the father, and the guesttook their turns, until the chapter was concluded, and theythen knelt together, while the stranger, at the father’s request,I offered the evening tribute of penitence, thanksgiving, and praise.A few moments after the exercise was completed, the childrenI came to the stranger one after another, repeated some simple| verses and the Lord’s prayer; they then hid him and their fatherI good-night, and followed their mother from the room.“You have a happy family,” said the stranger, when heI found himself, alone with his host.“ O yes, sir,” replied the farmer, “ I have everything toII make mo thankful. But it is to religion I am indebted for all.”“I have no doubt that religion is the source of your greatestn enjoyment; but you do not mean that religion has placed you in11 the prosperous situation and circumstances which you enjoy? ”“Oh yes, Sir, I owe every thing I possess to the power whichll the gospel has had upon me. Ten years ago I was an idle, dis-jt solute man, and my vicious course was fast makingemy farm a24desert, my wife broken-hearted, and myself a wretched vaga- 'bond. My wife has always, since my acquaintance with her, jbeen a pious woman ; and it is through the grace of God, bjher means, that I am not now ruined in soul and in body.”“ But how did she exert so great an influence over you?”“ Oh, sir, by her whole conduct; every action, every word,every look was a meek but powerful reproof to me. You cannotconceive how her kind eye would pierce my very soul, when Icame home late at night from some scene of riot and dissipa- *tion. There she used to sit in that corner ; and when she rosejto meet me, there was such an expression of grieved and sad-!dened feeling, that it always filled me with a momentary janguish. And sometimes on the Lord’s-day, when I was sit-1ting in a most melancholy mood, I used to hear her teaching isome verses of the Bible to little 'William; and they seemed«sometimes so pointed and full of meaning, that I was some- ;times disposed to be angry, from the suspicion that she de- ■signed to convey some rebuke to me in this indirect manner. :But then I would soon reflect upon the perfect proofs I had :almost every hour, that she wished my happiness. I believe, ‘that I could have borne any thing by this mild, forgiving spirit, 5yet it made me constantly miserable; conscience soon began to !upbraid ..me, and it pleased my heavenly Father to show mo ^my guilt, and the way of salvation through a Redeemer.”“ What was the guilt which you then saw in yourself? 'thefvices and crimes of which you spoke? ”“ Yes, sir, I had a much stronger and deeper sense of these ;but I soon found that they did not constitute the foundation ofthe evil. They were rather the signs of the guilt in my heart fthan the guilt itself. It was my heart, sir, that wanted puri- Ifying. I had before thought, that although my actions were |wrong, I could at any time alter them, and then I should boas good as my wife. But I soon found that there was some- !thing fundamentally wrong in the state of my affections to- 1wards God, and that unless these were altered, I should never \be holy or happy. I cannot describe my distress, when I found jthat for the control of these, I was so utterly dependent upon ahigher power. I was, however, at last brought to the Saviour, ]and I hope he has commenced a good work in my soul.”“ Well, how did-you recover your affairs from their embar- jrassed condition ?”“Religion, sir, and industry can accomplish any thing. I 1made the text, ‘Not slothful in business, fervent in spirit, serv- iing'.the Lord,’ my motto; and every thing soon began to go ;well,' and you see how happy a man I am now. ”