JOHN FALKIRK’SCA RICHES;ANDcjinijLi;:\ /uoiJANET CLINKER’SOMATIOHr,ON THE VIRTUES OF THE OLD WOMENAND '9THE PRIDE OF THE YOUNG. 'J/ 3i. Jo norirliorio?/ sill.Aitflloahscj 'oit;! JbBWO V PJUNTED FOR THE BOOKSELLER^lloiLP. !!l ,;,i li.)..—-: •„ T-j-;—i4 1-iHM1.08 oh 19V3 7F.m 819({iv boiloiwSI MUCHihv!KVAHULlJOHN FALKIRK’S7,'> f f~l f f *"I T / T f f ■« f f T # 1 -€A RICHES.- a.:-    - jQ. What is tli3 wisest behaviour cof ignorant persons?A. To speak of nothing but whathey know, and to give their opinion cnothing but what they understand.Q. What time is a scolding wife £the best ?A. When she is fast asleep.Q. What time is a scolding wife athe worst ?A. When she is that wicked as to teathe hair out of her head, when she can1get at her neighbours, and thro’ perfecspite bites her own tongue with her owteeth.—My hearty wish is, that all suewicked vipers may ever do so.3idnfltb Jgalmrf srfj z\ Je/i'// .pQ What is the most effectual cure andinfallible remedy for a scoldino- wife ?A. The only cure is to get out of thehearingofher: but the infallibleremedyis to nail her tongue to a growing tree,in the beginning ofa cold winter-night,and so let it stand till sun-rising nextmorning, then she’ll become one of thepeaceblest women that ev^r lay by aman’s side.Q. What time of the year is it thatthere are most holes open ?• ^ . t .»L , r .. , . . ?A. In harvest v\ hen thereaie stubbles.Q. W hat times is a cow heaviest ?A. When the bull’s on her back:Q. Who was the goodman’s mucklecow’s calf's mother ?A. I he muckle cow herself.Q. W hat is the likeliest thing to a manan a horse ?r . ( t?70'iq '/.’oil ,p.A. A Tailor on a mare.1Ff7!4Q. What is the hardest dinner thatever a Tailor laid his teeth to?A. His own goose, tho’ ever so weV"boiled or roasted.Q. How many toads’ tails will it tak^to reach up to the moon ? 0j gA. One, if it be long enough.Q. How many sticks gangs to thbigging of a craw’s nest ?A. Nor\e, for they are all carried.Q. How mt ny whites will a wemade pudding-prick need ?A. When well made it will need nmore.Q. Who was the father of Zebedeechildren ?A. Zebedee himself.Q. Where did Moses go when bwas full fifteen years old?A. Into his sixteenth.Q. How near related is your aunty^•cod-brother to you?A. He is my father.Q. How many holes are there iniihen’s doup ? A. I wo.Q. How prove you that?$>A. There is one for the dung andanother for the egg.Q. What is the best method ofcatch-mg rogues ?A. There is none so fit as a roguehimself.Q. Where was the usefulest fair inScotland kept ?A. At Mullgay. ..m miQ. What sort of commodities werethere ?A. Nothing but ale and wickedwives. :>b ad gjodwQ. How was it abolished?A. Because those that went to it oncewould go to it no more.Q. For what reason ?A. Because there was no money tobe got for them, but fair barter, wifefor wife ; and he who put away a wife!for one fault, got another for her, withtwo as bad.(2. What was the reason, that inthose days a man could put away hiswife for pissing the bed, but not forsh -git?A. because he could shut it awayi with his foot and lie down.1LaB «nuh adj idl ano ei siajil .kQ. What is the reason now a-days^athat men court, cast, marry, and re¬marry so many wives, and only but onfiin public at last ?9U301 £ iSi oc onoci b\ I f\ IA. Because private marriage is become as common as smuggling, anccuckolding no more thought of thartfor man to ride a mile or two ■upon his neighbour’s mare : men get wiland wale of wives; the best portion ancproperest person is preferred, the firsleft the weak to the worst; and shewhom he does not love he puts awayiand lies down with whom he pleases. «Q. How will one know the bairns oour town, by all others in the kingdom5 no?i%3i Jfiriw lo'i fflA By their ill-breeding, and bac imanners. ,, •y i • t 11« 'fwTIQ. What is their ill-breeding ant; |bad manners. J * |J( j gB 0^fl|A. If you ask them a question in civility, ifit were but the road to the nextown they’ll tell you to follow your noseand if you go wrong, curse the gude.'yfivvf, ii iurfa fchioo sd .AJ|.nwob ail bna tool aid rifii|Q, Are young and old of them alikefor ill breeding ?A. ^411 the odds lies in the difference,for if you ask a child to whom he belongs,or who is his father, he’ll bid you kisshis father’s a—e and then you’ll ken.ct b9*oqx& jufbd aheq ©ao.il bnr.Q. What sort of creatures is kindliestwhen they meet ?A. None can exceed the kindness ofdogs when they meet in a market.Q. And what is collie’s conduct whenthere.A. First, they kiss other’s mouthsand noses, smell all about, and last ofall, they are so kind as to kiss otherbelow the tail.Q. What is the coldest part of a dog ?A. His nose.r-fifn 101 hem seorlt Lne t3nignQ. What is the coldest part of a man ?A. His knees.Lion iionojiwsd gwohivr bns .snohiemQ. What is the coldest part of a woman ?A. Her dd ybQ. What is the reason that these threeparts of men, women, and dogs aiecoldest ?8A. fabulous Historian says, thatthere was three little holes in Noah’sArk ; and thrt the dog stopt his nosein one, and the man put his knee inanother, and into the third and biggesthole, the woman bang’d her backside :and these parts being exposed to thecold blast, makes them always coldever since.Q. What remedy does the man takefor warming his cold knees ?A. He holds them towards the fire ;and when in bed, draws his shirt downover them.Q. What does the woman do, towarm their cold parts ^A. The married women put theirbackside into their husbands’ arms:—Virgins, and those going mad for mar¬riage, their maidenhead keens themwarm :—old matrons, and whirl’d-o’ermaidens, and widows bewitched, holdtheir coldest parts to the fire.Q. And what remedy does the poordog take, for his cold nose ?He staps it below bis tail, th€faotest bit in his body.Q, What is the reason the dogs areworse ort chapmen than on any other; strangers ?A. It is said, the dogs have threei accusations against the chapmen, whichi has been handed down from father to' son, or from one generation of doa-s toi another: the first is as as old as ^Esop,1 the great wit of Babylon.—The dogshaving a law-suit against the cats, they| gained the plea ; one of the dogs com¬ing trudging home with the Decreetbelow his tail, a wicked chapman threwhiselwan at him, and he let the Decreetfall, and so lost their great pivilegesthereby. The second is, Because in oldtimes the Chapman used to buy dogsand kill them for their skins. The thirdis, When a chapman was quartered ina fanner’s house, that night the Doglost his right of licking the pot.j cog h.-.o-nj >nt ni v* niah > -f 9, * r t j , ^ f ^^ p ^ j |Q. What creature resembles mosta drunken piper? , 9rb/.J-sfl 9'dJti hue . .' -iof iiirm atiBwaA. A Cat when she sips milk, shealways sings, and so does a piper whenhe drinks good ale.Q. What is the reason a dog runstwice round about before he lie dowmto rest him ?A. Because he does not know thehead of his bed from the foot of it.Q. What creature resembles most along, lean, ill-looking, greasy-facedlady, for pride ?1J V k ' J 1 J 1 * ^ ^ * 1-J O '• ■ 1 i’i Ij L •A. None so much as a cat, who iscontinually spitting in her lufe and rub¬bing her face, as many such ladies dothe brown leather of their wrinkledchafts.Q. Amongst what sort of creatureswill you observe most of a natural lawor instinctive knowledge ?to Cl oriJ jrl-oin Jiiilj 8<?nou ioifiiBiA. The hart and the hind meet on on©certain day in the year; the broad gooselays her first egg on Easterns Even, oldstile; the crowsbegin (obuildtheirnestsabout the first of March, old stile ; theswans observe matrimony, and if the fe-imale hie, the male dare not take up withanotherortherest will put himtodeath;all the birds in general join in pairs and!11keep so ; but the dove resembles theadulterer, when the hen grows old hepays her away and takes another; thelocusts observe military order, andmarch in bands ; the frogs resemblepipers and pedlars, for the young onesride the old ones to death.Q. Who are the merriest & heartiestpeople in the world ?A. The sailors, for they’ll be singing,cursing, and damning one anotherwhen the waves, their graves, are goingover their heads.Q. Which are the disorderliest crea¬tures in battle ?iA. Cows and dogs ; for they all fallon them that are neathmost.<• • VO1 if.’ HQ. What are the vainest sort ofpeople in the woi Id ?Stiow t*l ,bf«a &ttf avodsA. A barber, a tailor, a young sol¬dier, and a poor dominie.soon 9fii "lo seuao Oiii f?'r }rj!V/ X)Q. What is the great cause of thebarber’s vanity ?5ov; ydr’io iodo<i9t ad) si yu &A ,AA. Because he is admitted to trim12Noblemeti’s chafts, thake their aculte,take Kings byrthe nos^j and hokl a ra¬zor to tlieir very thtoats, which nosubject else dare presume to do*f-i 1 4 I m £‘VI P'Ofa'i <-' « { ? • Stfint'fi ? ■ tmyQ. What is the great cause of theTailor’s pride ?A. His making of people's hewclothes, of which every person, youngand old, is proud. Then, who can walkin a vainer shew than a Tailor carryinghome a gentleman's new clothes?’gniog t80V£ :g liorlj ,{!9v«w atii nsrlv/ ]Q. What is the cause of a youngSoldier’s pride ?. so JcoLfoLiCr..}/; sdt a?/; Hoi.iV/ ;A. When he lists, he thinks he isfree of his mother's correction, the hardusage of a bad master, his liberty tocurse, swear, whore, and do every thing,until he be convinced by four halbertsand the drummer’s whip that he has.now got both a military and civil law’above his head, and, perhaps, far worse»masters then ever*-Q. What is the cause of the poonDominie's pride ?S '(tun.v cSodu jA. As he is the teacher of the youndmill ot bytlimba d ed osuedoO .A jmJ^nd ignorant, he supposes no man knowsN what he krtows ; and because boys call: him master, therefore he thinks himselfa great man.surt zii nr baaitostcj gnitcoweQ. What song is it that is sung with¬out a tongue, and yet its notes are un*. derstood by people of all nations?A. It is a fart, which every oneknows the sound of.Jbfieb beiboml r; to drjootl snj Ja^uomfiQ. What is the reason that youngpeople are vain, giddy-headed and airy,jand not so humble and obedient as the:j children of former years ?hi ; i 9dj 9TJ , o,A. Because they are brought up andi educated after a more haughty strain,by reading Fables, Plays, Novels andRomances; Gospel-Books, such as thePsalm-Book, Proverbs and Catechisms,arelike old Almanacks; thereisnothingin vogue but Fiddle, Flute, Troy andBabylonish tunes ; our plain Englishspeech corrupted with beauish cants,such as don’t, won’t, nen and ken; ajargon worse than the Yorkshire dialector the Hottentote gibberish.ms/d:w e i)3Ail noq £< well .*X. klUIT! liffijMQ. Why is swearing become so com¬mon among Scotch people ?A. Because so many lofty teachers- come from the south amongst us, where:swearing is practised in its true gram¬matical perfection! Hot oath, newstruck, with as bright a lustre as a newquarter guinea, just come from theMint.Q. How will you know the bones ofia mason’s mare at the back of a dyke,amougst the bones of a hundred dead)horses lying in the same place ?HA. Because it is made of wood.'isrrnol jo neiLIid'iQ. Which are the two things not tcbe spared, but not abused ?A. A soldiers coat and a hired horseb it;Q. How is a man in debt like a no¬bleman ?Btiifijonfi )T3;h • VVmJA Mo1 J if J f r.Jl A f > t > f il 1 x a l)IV J tii* v 1 1A. Because he has many to wait orand call for him.Q. How is swearing like a shabby coatlo-hsib o -hMioY oth amii s*io .v ruA. Because it is a bad habit.Q. How is bail pen liked a wicked:and profligate man ?15Because it wants mending,Q. Why is a church bell like a storythat is handed about ?- i - ‘ .:;i! y>' Kji ~’\! 'jji j i<J ^iC} ’/• .rJrt ^ ;j tyf. Because it is often toll’d.Q. What is a man like that is inthe midst of a river and cannot swim ?He is like to be drowned.Q. Why is a drawn tooth like a thingthat is forgot ?A. Because it is out of one’s head.Q. How is a book like a tree ?A. Because it is full of leaves.• itn ivJajUUJ.Q. How is a good sermon. like a| plump pudding ?A. Because there is reasons in it.Q. How is a whorish woman like} a charitable person ?A. Because she brings her husband: to a piece of bread.Q. How is a lawyer like a conten¬tious woman ?..OCr V3jiJ j -OfliiOi OJA. Because he breeds wrangling and-jangling. _Am_ur" j-'Vfv » ^ - / .iiQ. Who is the greatest fool in thej world ?A. A whore ; for she hazards soulland body for a miserable livelihood.tQ Who are the two greatest thievesin Great Britain ? fxwtW (\A. Tea and Tobacco, for they pickthe pockets of the whole nation.Q. What is the difference betweenAle-drapers and Linen-drapers?A. Only this, the one cheats youwith froth, and the other with cloth.Q. If Extortioners cannot enter theKingdom of Heaven, where will Usur¬ers, Tallymen, and Pawn-brokers go.A. The same road with Extortioners.Q. What is the consequence of im¬moderate gaming?A. By cards and dice, a man is!ruin’d in a trice ; for gaming and whor¬ing often hang together.Q. What employments are likest tcone-another? ; noeisfi aldatmrfa «A. Sohliersand Butchers are bloodynear relations, for the both live bjslaughtering and killing.Q. What are the two hardest thing;!to be found, and yet they are both goocin their kind ?A. Good women, & good small beer,Q. Who is the likest to a Boatman ?A. An hypocrite, who always lookone way and rows another, in all hitransactions. n e rol ybocf ina [nO. Wl\at are the Hve greatest rarities0 Ue found in tl»£ world?A. A black Swab, a Phoenix, anInicorn, the Philosophers* Stone, andmaiden at sixteen.Q. Wh.vt is the greatest folly thatsnsible people can be guilty of?A. To go to law about trifles, for,ihatever way the plea end, the law-ers will be the greatest gainers.1 Q. Who has the honestest trade inne world ?A. Hallad-singers ; for they always,ieal with ready-money : and it is as.ncientas the Siege of Troy, for H jmerias a ballad-singer.Q. What is the surest method for one> become both rich and respectable ?A. To be sober and industrious.Q. What is the best method of over-aming the argument of a positiveerson ?■ A. Either to say with him, or give'im no answer.i Q- What is the wisest course to heallowed by a man who has a brawlingid scolding wife ?I) A. To keep silent, and then she‘11lie her own fingers with anger.V\£ND OF THE CAJUCHES.saiJhsi igsjfisis, 9vrt aril .O !Janet Clinker’s Oration•j;T JZAivZJii r P tnf ./c .,jl >i xw jON THE VIRTUES OF THE OLD WOMENAND THE PRIDE OF THE YOUNG.4 r*'(♦ ^oo4f.g-|*o onj gj ifll'fl *0 iThe madness of this unmuzzled agehas dri ven me to mountains of thoughts^and a continued meditation;it is enoughto make an auld rin red-wood, antidrive a l>ody beyond the halter’s end o:id nature, to see what I see, and healwhat I hear: therefore the hinges omy anger are broke, and the bands omy good nature are burst in two, th«door of civility is laid quite open, plaitspeech and mild admonition is of noneeffect; nothing must be used now buiit hunderboltsof reproach .tartly trimmeti::in a tantlizing stile, roughly redd u«and manufactured thro’an'auld matron’ imouth, who is indeed but frail in thtfiteeth, but will squeeze surprisingly witiherauld gums until hervery chaft-bladet ;crack in the crushing of your vice.I shall branch out my discourse int<four heads.. kFirstly, What I heve seen, and bee$witness to.J9 , ySecondly, What I now see, and amwitness to.Thirdly, What I have heard, do hear,and cannot help ; I mean the differencebetween the old women and the young.Fourthly, Conclude with an adviceto young men and young women howto avoid the buying of Janet Juniper’sstinking butter* which will have a rot-ton rift on their stomach as long asthey live.First. The first thing, then, I see andobserve, is, That a wheen daft giddy-iheaded.cock-nos’d, juniper-nebbed mo¬thers, bring up a lot of sky-racket, dan-icing daughters, a’ bred up to be ladies,without so much as the breadth of their£ ufe of land ! It’s an admiration to mew here the lairds are to come frae that’s:o be coupled to them ! Work, na, na,ny bairn must not work, she’s to be aLady ; they ca* her Miss ; I must havener ears bor’d, says old Mumps the mo¬ther. Thus the poor pett’s brought up-like a motherless lamb, or a parrot ini cage ; thsy learn nothing put to prickIfnd sew, and fling their feet when the3* A nick-narne given to the wife’s daughterhat no man will marry, because stuff d full ofuziness, self-conceited, and stinking pride ; or if4ie be married, she’ll lie like stinking butter on hisitomach, while he lives.30fiddle plays; so they bepame a parcel ofyellow-fae’d female tailors, very unequalmatches for couptrymen; just Flanders-babies, brougnt up in a box, and mustbe carried in a basket; knows nothingbut pinching poverty, hunger & pride ;can neither milk kye, muck a byre, card,spin, nor keep a cow from a corn-rigg.The most of such are as blind penny,worths, as buying pigs in pocks, andought only to be matched with Tacivet-makers, tree-trimmers, & male-tailors,that they may be male & female agree¬able in trade, since their piper-facea fin¬gers are not for hard labour ; yet theymight also pass in a pinch for a blacksutor’s wife, for the sticking of whileseams round the mouth of ladys’ shoes $or with barbers and bakers they mightbebuckled becauseoftheirmuslin mouthand pinchbeck speeches, when barm isscant they can blow up their bread withfair wind $ and when the razor is rough,can trim their chafts with a fair tale,oil their peruke with her white lips, andpowder the beau’s pow with a Frenchpuff. They are all versed in the sciences,of flattery, musical tunes, hornpipes,and country dances, though perfect innone but the reel of Gammon,]\ *to ; shnoj ^nulaUa bnn ,l)9ii9Drtoo-ilosftblri'p. o\\ ir^* JwmcfTi od oifijTJ51Yet these are they, the fickle farmerfixes his fancy upon; a bundle of clouts,a skeleton of bones; Maggy and themutch, like t^a fir sticks an’ a pickletow, neither for his palate nor his pow ;ivery improper plenishing, neither forhis profit nor her pleasure, to plout herhands thro4 Hawkey's caff cog, is ahateful hardship for mammy's pet, amiwill hack a‘ her hands. All this I havej«een and hard, and been witness to,but my pen being a goose-quill, cannotexpose their names nor place of abode,but warns the working men out of theirway.Secondly. 1 see another sort, who canwork, and maun work, till they be mar-iried, and become mistress themselves ;but when they get husbands, all theirthrift leaves them.'. Before that, theywrought as for a wager, they span as forapi emium, busked as for a brag, scour'dtheir din skins as a waukrr does worstedblankets, kept as mim in the mouth asaminister's wife, comelvasDianachasteas Susanna, yet the whole of their toil isthe trimming of their rigging, tho‘ theirihulls be everlastingly in a leaking con-Idition ; their backs and their bellies arebox'd about with the fins of a big fish,six peticoats, a gown and apron, besidesa side sark down to the ancle-bones: ah!what monstrous rags are here ! what s.cloth is consumed for covering of buone pair of buttocks ! I leave it to thejudgment of any ten tailors in town, ithirty pair of men’s breeches may no'be cut from a little above the easing- o:Bessy’s bum ; and this makes her a motherly woman, as stately a fabric as eveistrade to market or mill. But when she’smarried she turns a ma lam, her mistressdiii not work much and why should she!Her mother ay sa«d she would be a lady',but could never tell where he lands lay :but when money’s spent, credit broken,and conduct out of keeping, a wheerbablingbubly bairnscryingpieceminny,porich minny, the witless waster is a'her wit’s end : work now, or want, anddo not say that the world has war’d you;but lofty noddle, your giddy-headedmother has led you astray, learning youto be a lady’ before you was fit to be aservant lass, by teaching you laziness in-stead of hard labour, by givingyou sucha high conceit of yourself, that no bodythinks any thing of you now ; and youmay judge yourself to be one of thosethat wise people call little-worth. But,after all, my dear dirty face, when youbegin the world again, be perfectly rich,before you be gentle ; work hard forwhat you gain, and you’ll ken better33how to gutle it; for pride is an unper¬fect for'.une, and a ludicrous life willnot last lon^.Another sort I see, who has got moresilver than sense, more gold than goodnature, more muslins and means thangood manners, tho’ asack can hold theirSilver, six houses and a half cannot con¬tain their ambit ions desires. Fortunauis’wonderful purse would fail in fetchingin the fourth part of their worldly wants,and the children imitate their mothers,^hatterin"- like hungry cranes cryingittill, I want! L want 1 ever craving,vilfully wasting, till all be brought to aloleful dish of desolation, and withtleanness of teeth, a full breast, anL'mpty belly, big pockets without pence,lunching penuary, perfect poverty,irouth, hunger, want of money andriends both, old age, dim eyes, feebleoints, without shoes or clothes the realruits of a bad marriage, which bringsihoughtless fop to both faith and repen-ance in one day.N Thirdly. Another thing I see, hear andnannot help, is the breeding of bairns,nd br'nging them up like bill-stirks :hey gie them wealth of meat but nonai ners. Hut when I was a bairn, if1 did not bendito obedience, I ken myselfhat I got, which learn’d me what to gie24mine again ; if they h^d but^telKltutus, or prute no, 1 laid them o‘&f W}knee, and I corn'd crack for cfack o'e:their hurdles, like a knock-beetie on sHam web, till the red wats- sthod ortheir hips ; this brought obedience into my house, and banished c/ods an*ill-nature out of the door,; l dang th«deil out o' them, arid dailded them lik*a wet dish-clout, till they did my bidding ; but now the bairns are broughup to spit fire in their mither's faceand cast dirt at their auld daddieshow can they be good, who never sa*a sample of h ; or reverence old agewho practised no precepts in theiyouth ? How can they love their parents who gave them black poison instead of good principles ; who shewe.t hem no good example 1Now, after all, when a poor mawants a good .wife, let him wale anthat has been lang servant to ae hous^well liked by the bairns, and the bairnsmil her ; that's the lass that will rnaka o-ood wife : for them that dauts thyming bairns, will ay be k.nd to aulfotik an they had them.r4 1 ff f Pf'’// I rf cj / j ' tj tJlil pI'iS'/fri ncj>11 /;anoiiic3(ft oj {jfiod Ion LiM