i th4 STRANGE and WONDERPREDICTIOOf the Revereild R‘.A4 Mr. CHRISTOPHER4C Minider of the gofpe! atT who was beheaded on Tower Hill, iiUhe time ^of Oliver Cromwell's government of England.Giving an acrmint of Babylon’s fall, or the ddlruc* ,AI a lion of Popery, ami in that gioriom event, a >•s general ntfornniiion over all the world. v*4 , 4A Aifo two letters from his wife to !ii«n a little before aI T bis death, with his letter and directions to her a- ^v' *a'm, Aug. *2. 1651, the day of his gloritication. IV*; 4 To which is added, Some Meditations for| A ing bedevers when death is near.EDINBURGH, w Primed by Alex. Roseetjon, foot of thAflembly Clofe, 1786.<4°The wonderful Prediclions of the Reve¬rend Mr. Christopiisit Love.7i Few nights after he was fentenccd to behehead-ed on To-wer-Hill, which w,o: on the 22^ day ofAuguft, in the year 1651, which was ten days beforehis appointed time, by the femence he received atthe bar. Being one night vifited by two intimate ac¬quaintances, or bofom friends, as he himfeif calledthem, in their private conference they began to com¬plain to him of the cruelty of the times, and themalice and ill-ufage of the tinje-ferving brethren; to•which Mr, Love anfweied,' and think you this an eviltime; no, no, this is the very time that grace andtrue godlinefs can be diftinguithed from hypocrify.Many have folioyed Chrift hi'herto for the loaves,and are now turned back becaufe of the roughnefs ofthe way, and the fore trial and tribulaiion met withby others that arc gone before them- There are ma¬ny in London at this very day, who think to go toheaven in their gilded coaches, and have denied jChriil’s c;ure before man egainft wiiom I am nowwitnefs) and Chrift in his nev«r failing word has pro-mifed to de -ry alt Arch before his Father and the holy ;-rngels. This is the time to d feern between him who 4ferveth God, and him wh© feiveth him not. Theyformerly were my familiar acquaintances in fellcw-fhip and f-veet converfe. I feiit this day to have a |;few words of them here in the p: ifon, but they would *| jnet come; For their countenance is fallen, their con-.*1fciences wounded, they cannot look me in the face,bpcaufeT knew cf their resolution, and was witnefs -ef their perjuration. B»t, ah i how will they look ,(3 ) . *e bkiTed Jefrs m {be face in the morning of thefurre£Uon ; what anfwer or excufe will they haver whrit they haveclon&? O foolifh people, v/ho thinkJefcape the crofs and come to the crown; but I tellli nay, you muft all fuft'er perfecution who followI Lamb; we mud be»ha'ed of all n vtions fhr Chrift’slie; we mud come thro’ great tiibulation, thro’ thei y furnace of adliellon, before we can enfer the:iji of joy and felicity: know you not that the foul*• hofe that w'ere (lain far the tedimonyof Jefus areBed under the altar? Happy, happy are tiiefe meniihis day, and ever (hall be happy, who fuffer for’id’s Lke in a ri^ht and charitable way, thro’ ioveis Cr.U'e and honedy of heart, not through pridei jhypocrifv without the root of the matter, to hareId they died martyrs; thefe are they who willtheir mark and thofe who denied the call and'led beck, (bail never have the honour to find it.j|m now point.d out by many "o be in a forbrnIf tion ; hut would not exchange my eftate, no,or all the kingdoms of the wcrld—r.o, not forc glory that's on the earth. I fimbmy Redeem-v-e (Longer in my bonds than ever I did in theif my liberty, therefore I hold living here inorld as death itftlf. I am as full of Jove andthe Holy Spirit as ever a bottle waa filled withl ine ; I am ready to cry out, “ The Spirit ofLord God is upon me ” But I will not take itmt to prophefy, neverthelcfa the Spirit of thelaufei'h me to uuer.—This ufurped authorityI the hands-'of Cromwell (ball (liortly he at an“England (hall be blefied with meek kings andvernmerits, powerful preachers and dull hear->d fermons to them will be as mufre to a tleepyey fir all hear but not uriderftand, nor lay the| heart to pra^Vife it in their lives, to walk byrhifland, thou fitalt wax old in wickednefs,U abound like Stfdom, thy voluptuoufaefs giafi( 4 )£ry aloud far vengeance. Tlie Lord fhall threand chaftife thte, yet in mercy and love will heupon thofe that fear him and call upon his n;ie will fpare and fuve them alive in the days ofanger, when the wicked ihall he fated from amoyou.ss the chaff is lifted from amongft the wheatout of thee, O ^ 'fgland, (half a bright tfararlfe, wlight and voice (lull make the heathen to qn ikeknock under with fubmiffion to the gofpel of Jehe (ball be as a fon of thunder in the ears < fwicked; as a lanthorn to the JewstoleaJ thto the knowledge of Jefus Chrift, the only SorGod and true Mefihh, wham tlieyfo long miuru;tfor the Ihort work fpoken of by the apofhie, whthe Lord is to make upon the earth, in che latterof the world, cannot be far. off. Obferve my df|iends while you live, my ca'cuLtion of the datethe book of the Revelation and Daniel, which t -e :Tit of the Lord led me into; for the Lord will reiit to fame of his own ere that time come; fornearer the time is the feals {hall be taken away, amore and more (ball be revealed to God’s people ;the Lord doth nothing without he reveal it by his Srit to bis fervants the prophets He deftroyrd notold world without the knowledge of ah ; henot overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah without fkowlcdge.rf Abraham, I do not mean now that !■new prophet fhall arife, but the. Lord by his Sjfhall caufe knowledge to abound atnongfl: his pe*■whereby the oid prophecies fliall be c early and|fe£tly underftood. And I die in that thought,!really believe, that tny ededation on the Revela ;by.St. John, and the prophecy which St. Jeromfipied off, ami tranflatcd out of the Hebrew langiilas it is written on Seth’s pillar in Damafcus, wjfpillar is faid to have flood fmee before the fioodj|was built by Seth Adam's ftn and written by Mpheprophet; as likcwife the holy precepts,{ 5 5epstnarclifi walked before the^wwasgiven toMofei-hich was alio engraven on the faid pillar, whcreot,'wy Jews have copies in their own language, writ-r, pa:-hmev.t and engraven on brafs and cop-. , but the akcmt-on cf the date makes them tt>-gger at it, not knowing that the dates were to be■1|.efed by the hitth of Chiift-—Firft, this prophecy‘ill in titled ‘ \ fhort work ef the Lord’s in the latter■A: e of the world ’ Great earthquakes and commo-ivms by fea snd land fhail ccme in the year of God-|79. Great wass in Germany and America in 1780^jie deliiu£iion of Popery, 01 Babylon's lall, in thenr 179W. God wi 1 be known by many it- the year: this will produce a great man. The ftars wilf.Itrifler, and -hemoon tuvn'as blood in i8co. Africa,'a, and America will tremble in 178^. A greatItlrhquake over the whole world in 17^3* God will:jumverfully known by all. I hen a general refor-ffiion and peace for ever, when the people flialltn war no more.— Happy is the man that liveth:|ee this day.Wkn fi'P Letter of Mrs. Levs to her Ilvjband*ft'.'I Sweet Heart,|ORE f write further. I befeech you ro think thatI not your wife that now wrrttfr to you; I hopeI h )(l freely given up thy wife and children »o the|! God tl ai fai.. Jer xItu- ii-4 Leave :hy Father--■® children, I will pveL ive them alive, and let thy',|lous truft in me * 1 dtfire tO'gb’C thee freely'iito the Faiher’s hands, and not only look-uporvla crown of g’ory for thee to die forClmlty ’’but| hor rur for me to-have a hufbtml to leave for|L f dare »ot fpctk to thee, nor have a thought-• wr'.myfeff cf my aufpeakabie lofs, but w hsby||my . yc liv'd upon thy unfpeakab.le -ud iucon-Irk gam. Thou Uaveft but a Giiful mprial wifeC 6 vto be everhifHngly Carried to the King of Glo ;thou leaveft but children, and b;'-thrpn, and HHer;to go to the Lord Jefus, thy cldcif brother} th:Isavefl ftiends to go the er joymert of ho’y argeiand to the fpirits of jufi into ma.’e perfetithemdoi but leave earth for heaven ; and if natural afJfeftions begin to rife, I hope that fpirlt of grace th«is within thee wi.l OjUell th“ra, anti knowing that a'things here below are I ut dung and drofs in c< mpi ,rifon of thefe things above, l krow thou keepdt th'eye fixed upon the hope of glory, which makes th^to trample upon the lofs of earth.My dear, I know that God hath not only prepanglory for thee and thee for it, but I am perfnacled ‘will fweeten the way for thee to come to the ery<ment of it. And when thou art putting on tjdeaths that morning, think thou a't putting on t[wedding cloaths to go to be ma-ried to thy P.edeenWhen the mefienger of death cometh to thee,him not be dreadful, but look upon him as the mlfenger that briijge'h thee good tidings of eternal lilWhen thou goeft up to the fcaflfoid think what trt« Idelh me, it was but thy ehariot to draw thee to.Father's houfe. And when thou layeft down thy eijhead to receive thy Father's ftroke, remember wlthou faiclft to me, that though thy head was fevellfrom thy body, yet thy foul fliali foon be uniteJTJefus Ghrift thy head in heaven. And though it rfjfeem bitter that by the hands of men we ate paia little fconer than otherwife we w<5u!d have beyet let us confider, is is the will and decree oflFather; and befides we could not h.ve lived mijlonger together, and it will not be long ere we flienjoy one another in heaven. O let us comforijHanother with thefe f-yim s. Gh. be comforted,‘11but a little ftroke ere thou fn.dt be 1 w here the vvli‘ are at reft, ami where the wicked fhall ceafe jJtroubling thee.’ Oh ! remember that though aj1I car rtiy dint.er with bi'tcr herb?, yet thou fhalt liaVC -• a ipvful fupptr with ]efu» ChrHl at night. And, my. by what I write to thee I do not undertake to f"'be .. teacher of thtcj for this comfort 1 have receivedi of the Lord by thee, i hear a warrant is come to [! the lieutenant, I am ready to think it may be con-cerniy-g thee, to fend il ea to thy journey's end to-morrow, and that becaute they poOibly may be hin¬dered if they flay till the day appointed ; but I antperfaadtd, 'hod art fo far frern being afiaid of it,that theu ddft long for the day, which (next unejer jGod) to hear cf thy wiliingnefs to die, will be the )m greateft comfott n the world. 1 can write no tr.ore,i but commit thee to the hands of that God wi h wHihtiiou and i ere long'&a l be.—Farewell, Farewell. :July ix. 1561. MARY LOVE.P. S One comfort I would have thee carry to thy (1 grave ; if ever God did good to my foul, thou waftI the chief i.’dmioient of it, for I sever Looked after|l Gcd till 1 law thy fjee. iIsf ficond Letter of Mrs. Lose to her Htfbtm J.My Heavenly Dear, - 11 I CALL thee fo, becauie God hath put heaven intrt’| thee before he hath taken thee into heaven. Thott.1 f - now beholdeft Gcd, aodChrilt, and gbory^ as in a »| gLfs. but to-tnorro'.v. heaven^ gates fnalH»e opened>; and thou- (halt be iff. the fall enjoyment of that glory,i wh;ch eye hath nyt feen, nor- the ear heard, nor the-i heart cf mm c -a conceive. God hath now Lvai- ’! lowed up thy (hotighls witb-tbe joys of heaven, butere long thou (halt be futly fwallowed up in the en¬joyment of heaven. O marvel not’there thould be !inch tjaietncls and caliunefs in thy fpirit while thou jE.t robing into this Umpefitious Uonn„b;-eaufe. thou j( « )percetreS, by.the eye of faith, a haren of reft, wherethou ihalt be wjth Chrift the glory of heaven- Oiift up thy head with joy when thou laveft it upou. . , joy when thou layeft it upc' ,block, in the thoughts of thif, b-ut thou art hying1"tty head to red in thy Saviour’s bofom, which, when-thou (halt awa«e, fholi be cro»wr.ed, not with aitearthly crown that fadeth away, but with an ktaveniycrown of glory. O be not di.coaraged, when thoa(halt fee a guard of foidiers triumphing with theirtrumpets about the^ but lift up thy h vd, and thoufiialt behold God with a guard of angels, his' holyangels, triumphing for the receiving thee into glory.O! be not diicouraged at the feoffs and repioachesfchou mayeft meet with in thy fhort way to heaven;for be affured, that God will not only g! rify thy (bitland btdy in heaven, but he will as lure mike thymemciy glorious upon earth. Oh ! let not one trou¬bled thought for thy wife a: d babes arife within thee jthy God will be our God and poition, he will be ahulband to thy widow, and a father, to thy children ;the grace of thy God will be fufficient for us. Now,my dear, I deiiie willingly and freely torefign up myright of thee to my Father and thy Father, who haththe greateft part and intereft in thee. Though menhave feparjjtted us fora time yet our merciful God*j.will bring us together again, where we lliafl eternally _enjoy one another, never to fepatate more ; and let .me hear how God bears up thy heait, and let me JtilvC of the comforts that fepportt, t.hee, thatthev maybe as p liars of marble to. bear up nty h«art. i canwrite no more-—Fare well, farewell, my dear, tillJwe ihall meet where we flia’l bid b rewed no more ; jtill which tin e I leave thee in the pi an Js of a tender!hearted Father, and do the belt u.l i f-'.all tell v.ithl;h<p?,5:j heavt:;, 1MARY LOVE.,A Letter frmn Mr. Cht.'tjhpher Love to hi: IVfe.' \ My rroft Grsciocs B.'hr,*#,.IAN? now going from a prifon fo a palace; F Haverjlfhed my woik lam now going to receive my■ ges; l am going to heaven where a c two of myilldren, and leaving you on earth, where are threer my babes: thefe two above need not my care,il: the three below reed yours; it comforts me toink two of my children are in the bofom of Ab'a-r,r, and three of them will be in the arms and carefuch a tender and gedly mother. 1 know you arswoman of a ic;rowful fpirit, yet be comforted,ough your forrows be great for your hufhand goin'gu of the world, yet your pain fliall be the lefs iniinging ycur child into the world; you (hall be aful mother though you be a fad-widow. God hathny mercies in llore for you. The prayer of a dy-hufljand for you will not he loft. To my fhrwneIpeak it, 1 never prayed for you at liberty as 1 have:ne in ptifen. 1 cannot write much, but I have av practical ccunfels to leave with you. viz.lift, Keep under a found, orthodox, foul-tea robingnilhy. Oh! there are many deceivers gone outo the world»but Chrift’s ftreep know his voice, and. trifiiger they will not follow. Attend.any minifterit tcacheth the way of.God in truth., v.nd fellowjlor.K n’s advice, Piov x x. 27.2diy, Bring up your children ir> the know’edge and"monition of the, Lord. T he. mother ought to be achcr in the fithcr’s abfence- Prov xxi. t. ‘ Tire,mrcis that his mother taught Kim ’ And Ptmothy: s inftrudhed by his.grr.- idnwtber, 1 fim i. 5jdly. Pray in your.'amiiy .daily that you may be in; number of the familKs who call upon God.kthly, Labour for a mrtk arui r^uiet fpirir, which,the li-ht of Godj L o: great price, 1 Pet, iii. 4.;( ,0 ) _5^i!y, Fore net upon she comforts you want,upon the mercies yc u have; look rather at God’sin afHiifUng, than-io the mcafure and degree of ?affliction,6th!yv Labour to clear up your evidence fot >heavwhen God takes from you the comfort of earth,that as your fuStrings do abound, your coafoktiottCh'rift may abound, much more, *i Cor. i 5(Stilly, , hough it be gcot! to maintain a holy jloufy of the deedtfuintfs of the heart, yet it ii _for you to-che ifli fears and doubts touchii g thetrt lof your gmees. If ever l had conlict.nee touching 1 1,grace of a-nche-, 1 have confnience of grace in y jas Peter faid of Sy'vahus ' l'a-m perfuaded that* is the grace of God, trhetcih \e ftaml^ j Pet i. tO my dear foul, wherefore dofi thou doubt, whheart has been upright, wbofe vvalkinghashlen• &c. 1 could venture my fcul this day in tby fr oflead, fuch a confidence have f in yoo.i8th!y, ^hen you find your heart Lcure, prerumtux>us and proud, then pore upon corrupt on methan gtace; then look upon you? graces without yoinfirmities.. 9thly, Study the covenant of grace and meritsChrift. and be troubled if you can ; you are intcre*ed in fuch a covenant, that accepts promifes forfoimances, defires for deeds, fincerity for perfedli^ ■'the rtgbteoufnefs of another, viz that ;>f J fas Cdr|as it were our own alone. O my I ve! rdf thouthe love of God, in the bofom of Chnit |icth’y. Swallow up your will in the will of G^jlit is u b:tcer cup tve are to drii. c, but it is the cup ojjFather hath put iuto our h inds. When. Paul .vas tfuffer at Je ufalcm, the Chiiilians would lay, the viiof th. Towter at Jeiulalcm, tneChuiUans wouia iay, tne wthe Lord be done. Oh! fay you fo when I g :1>wdr Hdl, the will of the Lord he done. ^ I1 ithiy, i'.ejq'ce in my jty. lo mourn ro_r meerdinateiy, argues that you eitherenvy or fu^pTl .nr ii thappincfs. Tlve joy cf ths Leri is my firengtfi; 0!let it be yours alfo. Dear wife, farewell, 1 will callthee wife no more. I frail fee ihy face no more, yet.I am not much troubled: for now 1 am going to meetthe bridegroom, the Lord Jefus, to whom l frail beeternally married.izthly, Refufe not to marry, when God offers youa fair opportunity,but be fure you marry in the Lord,and ci.e of a good difpofiticn that he may not grieveyou, and of a comfortable livelihood in the wcrld.Farewell, dear love, and again 1 fay farewell; theLord Jefus bs with your f^pirit. the Maker of heavenand earth be a hufrand to you, and the Father of ourLord Jefus Quill be a Father to your children.——So prays,Your dying, yet moft affcftionate friend, till death,CHRISTOPHER LOVE.Pt om the Tower of London,-Augnft 22. 165;, the dayof my glorification.Afr CkrUiopber Love’s \afi Words on 0>e Scaffold.ALTHOUGH (faid he) there be but little betweenme and death, yet this bears up my heart, there irhttle between me and heaven. It comforud DrTaylor the Martyr, when be was going to execution,that mere were but two liiles between him arni hislather s heufe, there i? a lefferway between me andir.y Father’s houfe, but two fteph between me andglory. It is but h ng down upon that blech., and Ifrail-afcencl upon a throne. 1 am this cuy failing to-v ards the ocean of eternity, through, a rough p.fLge 'to my heaven of reft, through a red fea to the p;oUputed laud. Methinks I hear God fay to me, us hedtd to Mofes, Go up to mount Nebo and die there.t.” “ ( 12 ) •f> to me Go up to To^’er fli[i snd die there. Tfaaclaid to himfelf, thr.t he was ol<f, and yet he knewnot the day of his death ; but f cannot fay fo. ( amyoung and yet I know the day of my dea h. and Iknow the kind of my death, and the place of mydeath ah'j. I am put to fuch a kind of death as t.'.’Ofamous preachers of the trr/pef were put to before n;e,John the Baprift, and Paul the apo'He, they v. ereboth beheaded. I read a ho iulUv >x the faintswere l^eheaded for the werd of God'ar.d tehimony ofJefas. Hu* h r. in is the dif dvau’age which I ly un*d r in the thoughts c f manyrhey Judge that I f'-h . rnot for the w'ord uf God or for conYc ence. hut tornveddling with llato maters. To this l fhaii brieflyfar, th r h avoid ttick of Satan to impute the rautcof God’s people’s fu dr rings to he cootrivemcnis a-gainft the Hate; when in tiuth it is their religion andconscience thev sre perProuted for l he rulers of If-rael would have put Jeremy to dea.h upon a civil ac¬count, though iiideech it was oufy the tra h of hisprophecy lba« made jhe ruiers angry wbh him ; andyet upon a civil account they pen n ed hr mull die,becaufe he fell away to the Chaldeans and wouldhave brought in foreign forces to invade them. 1 hefame thing is laid to my chapse of which I am asinnocent as Jeremy was. So Paul, thou-h he didbut preach Jefus C hr ill, yet his enemies wi^p< "adhim ,put to death, undei pretence that he wa.vTcu>vcrof feoition. Upcn a ci .il account my life is p Mc cl*edto he taken away; whereas it is, becr.ufe * purfuemy covenant, and wid not prottituie my p incipksand ccmfcicnce to the ambhion and lull of men. Ihad rathpr die a »oven ant keeperthan live a covenantbroker. Br oved, lam tlm day mak ng a dt-ub'cexdharge; l am.changing a pulpit It r a fc. lr Jd. and, e fc.ifib.d for a throne;, and { might add a third, l amI changing;:'he prefence of this numerous miihitu-. e onFlower iiiii. for the innumerable company c: lauus -h and angels in hesven, the holy hill of Zion; and Ii am changing a guard af foldiers for a guard of angel#f which will rec/ive ntC) and carry me to Abralunvi! | bofom. This fcaffold is the beft pulpit that ever fI;1 preached in ; in my church pulpit God through hisy grace made me an inlliument to bring others to hea.i'l ven, but in this pulpit he will bring me to heaves.Afterwards he faid, though my blopd be not thel!| blood of nobles, yet it is Chrifiian blood, ciinilltrsli blood, ye* more, it is alfo innocent blood l mag*i nrfy the riches of God’s mercy and grace towards me,i, that I who w.;s born in Walts, an obfeure country,: and of ©bfeure parents, fliould be fiagled out an ho-: nourable fuffering. For the firfl fourteen years of my' life l never heard a fermoo preached; y^t in the fif¬teenth year of my life, it pleafed God to convert trie,'l51tfT.il be God, who nor only made me a ChriHia^.U| but a fo a minin«r; judging me faithful, and puttingd me into the miniflry, wh;ch is my glory, t had ra¬il ther be a preacher in a pulp.t, than a prince upon atl throne ; 1 had rather be an inllrument to bring foulsn to heaven, than that ail nations fhould bring tribute■ j| to me.—Formerly ( laid he) 1 have been under a fpiritI cf bondage; yea, iumetimes 1 have had more fear inl| drawing out a tooth that) now l have for cutting offt: my head When fear was upo.: me, death was not( near; now, when death is near to me, my fear is e-1 vaninied.I am comforted in this, thcu;h men k.l! me they‘.cannot damn me# though they thurft me ent cf the<world, yet can they not fliutme out of heaven. Whenl have fl ed my blood I expect the full declaration of[the remiflit n o' fins th ouh the blood of J<fu. Chrilt.I am going to my long hon e, aud you to your fhorthomes; but I {hall beja: my home before ye be atyours. He prayed, that,feeing he was called todo the work which he never did) he might hate tit *ttrength which he ::evsr had.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIPJIIIDr. mU, in bis Elegy, haththe/c lines upon Mr. Love;.Isdiis the bJcctl you thiift for? Takc’t I pny.Speflators in bis looks i'uch life did fee, ,That Uuy afpcuKd mote like to die than he.Lightnings which fillkf-tKc air wiih Wazing light,!L);d lerve'for tOt rl.es in that cifinal iiijfht;In vvliich, ami aii n: sc day for many hours,Heav’n groan’d in thender, and did weep in fliow'rNor do I wonder that God tbiifldee’d fo,When Idoenerjes mutdet'd lay below.Some Meditations for Drooping Believers -when Deathis near.TR AVELLERS who have met with many ftorms,troubles and dangers in their journeys, rejoicenty bltfl'.d home, my deaf friends, and eternal hsbi* ^i, tat ion.— I routines kiliu b ill ttitu I cjf JUCwhen they come near thtir own country; and ihaH •not I, a ft ranger and pilgrim, that hath been longwandering in a wilderneH, he glad when ( come near ,( '5 )tli v.-!:at chearfu'nds ‘do feme woinen Sesrins of child bearing, being fup^orted '.vith throf a child’s being born .in the world } Andis the joy ot a mats child beVg breught to thi s11 and miferable world, to the joyed a iancHHedel| being bro-tght out of it into heaven forever ?lleafaTit when the hard v/inted geeth over, theilgers of the spring, the fidgirtg of biids dothj:i and fiiall not I tej dc ', when fickntfsand fare-I|is of death to tell me, that ti>e winter of myijfs .incl trouble is pall, and-the fuir.nter of my11 light and joys is at band ?f t though death be the king of terrors ? Is notIt Chrilb the King of com'forts ? H .ve not Ihjtady with this bJelicti King •, and why (hemidii meat with the oth^r ? O let my lireu/th andj|at this time come from Chrift my coven-usteiHer.•d, deliver my foul from death, mine eyesrs and rhy. feet ffom'f.i ling ! O bring me’ *. miry clay, fet my feet upon a rock, tkndny goings, a nd ; jit a new long in- my mouth,fea to our God>b went down fo rhearfuily into Egvptv/henfaid un'fo him, ‘ Fear not to go down, form down with thee, and 1 will bring thee upvhy R’.ojI.I a be iever fear to go down towhen God ha' h undertaken to go down|tliither, and bring hun up again ? His bodyncdvtnto du but f o.bis in covenant w ith1 will not fuffer the ieaft puritcle of it tor the righteons taken- away from th£ evTl tothey not reft on their beds, and enter in-jiVhy then fliouid [ grudge at dying? WhenIp to bring heavy wrath and judgments onUftequentiy houfeth many of his people in■ore!-and; and ho-a*--happy are thefe thati\Tvrin five houffc before th6 fwetpiitg hail fiiowers &fall. ‘ xVbeliever needeth not to lock for any fetifair weather'in this world ; it w ill be nothings'one fhower up and another down till he be houleflheaven. O why then flouM I linger in thislJernefs ?FINIS.