HISTORYGLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,OF SCOTLANDTHOMAS HIGEATHRIFT.THOT8IB: WOBaAJ;.8H a J a :T <5 u OH . B ff.> ' Q M 1 i : -rTHEHISTORYorThomas Hickathrift.He that does buy this little Booh,Observe what you in it do look.When you have read it, then may say.Your money is not thrown aivay.CHAP. I.Of his Birth, Parentage, and Education.In the reign before William theconqueror, I have heard in ancient his¬tory that there dwelt a man in theparish of the Isle of Ely, in the conn-4ty of Cambsidge, whose name wasThomas Hickathrift, a poor man anda day labourer, yet he was a verystout man, and able to perform twodays work instead of one : He havingone son, and no more children in theworld, he called him by his own name,Thomas Hickathrift, This old manput his son to good learning, but hewould take none, for he was as we callthem in this age, none of the wisestsort, but something less, and had nodocility at all in him.His father being soon called out ofthe world, his mother was tender ofhim, maintained him by her hand-la¬bour as well as she could; he beingslothful, and not willing to work toget a penny for his living, but all hisdelight was to be in the chimney cor¬ner, and would eat as much at onelime as would serve four or five men ;for he was in height, when he was5but ten years of age, about eight feetand in thickness five feet, and hishand was like unto a shoulder of mut¬ton ; and in all his parts from topto toe, he was like unto a monster,and yet his great strength was notknown.CHAP, 11How Thomas Iliclcathrift Strengthcame to he known.The first time that his strength'pwas known, was by his mother goingto a rich farmer’s house (she being buta poor woman) to desire a buttle ofstraw to shift herself and her sonThomas. The farmer being a veryhonest, charitable man, bid her takewhat she would. She going home toher son Tom, said, I pray go to sucha place and fetch me a buttle of straw,I have asked him leave. He swore6he would not go : nay, pray thee, i omgo, said his old mother. He sworeag-ain he would not go, unless shewould barrow him a cart rope. Shebeing willing to please him, wentand borrowed him a cart rope to hisdesire.He taking it went bis way ; comingto the farmer’s house, the master wasin the barn, and two men threshing.Said Tom, I am come for a buttle ofstraw.* Tom, said the master, take asmuch as thou canst carry. He laiddown the cart rope, and began to makehis buttle; said they, Tom thy ropeis to short, and jeer’d poor Tom, buthe fitted the man well for it: for hemade his buttle, and when he had fin¬ished it, there was supposed to be aload of straw in it, of two thousandweight. Said they, what a great foolart thou, thou canst not carry thetenth of it ? Tom took the buttle and7Hung it over his shoulder, and madeno more of it than we do of an hundredweight, to the great admiration of mas¬ter and men.Tom Hickathrift’s strength beingthen known in the town, they wouldno longer let him lie baking by thefire in the chimney corner, every onewould be hiring him to work; theyseeing him to have so much strength,told him that it was a shame for himto live such a lazy course of life, andto lie idle day after day, as he did.Tom seeing them bait him in amanner as they did, went first to onework then to another; but at lengthcame a man who would hire him togo to the wood; for he had a tree tobring home, and he would contenthim. Tom went with him, and hetook with him four men besides; butwhen they came to the wood, they setthe cart on the tree, and began to8draw it up with pullies; Tom seeingthem not able to stir it, said, stand a-way, ye fools, then takes it up and setsit on one end, and lays it on the cart;Now, says he, see what a man can do.Merry is it true, said they. Whenthey had done, as they came throughthe wood they met the wood-man,Tom asked him for a stick to make hismother a fire with. Aye, says thewood-man, take one that thou canstcarry. Tom espyed a tree bigger thanthe one that was in the cart, and laysit on his shoulder, and goes home wdthit as fast as the cart and six horsescould draw it. This wras the secondtime that Tom’s strength was known.When Tom began to know that hehad more strength than twenty men,he then began to be merry and verytractable, and would run, or jump,took great delight to be amongst com-9pany, and to go to fairs and meetings,to see sports and pastimesGoing to a feast, the young menwere all met, some to cudgels, someto wrestling, some throwing the ham¬mer and the like; Tom stood a whileto see the sport, and at last goes tothem that were throwing the hammer;and standing a little to see their man¬like sport, at last he takes the hammerin his hand to feel the weight of it, andbid them stand out of the way, for hewould throw it as far as he could. Aye,said the smith and jeered poor Tom,you’ll throw it a great way I’ll warrantyou; Tom took the hammer in his handand flung it; and their was a riverabout five or six furlongs off, and flungit into that : When he had done, hebid the smith fetch the hammer again,and laughed the smith to scorn.When Tom had done this exploit,he would go to wrestling, tho’ he had10no more skill of it than an ass, but whathe had by strength ; yet he filing all thatcame to oppose him, for if once he laidhold of them, they were gone. Somehe would throw over his head, some hewould lay down silly, and how hepleased; he would not like to strike attheir heels, but flung them two or threeyards from him, ready to break theirnecks asunder; so that none at lastdurst go into the ring to wrestle withhim, for they took him to be some devilthat was come among them ; so Tomsfame soon spread more and more inthe country.CHAP. HLHow Tom came to be a Brewers man ;and how he came to kill a Giant, andat last teas Mr Hickathrift.Tom’s fame being spread abroadboth far and near, there was not auman durst give him an angry wordfor he was something fool-hardy, anddid not care what he did unto them;so that all them who knew him wouldnot in the least displease him. Atlength there was a Brewer at Lynn,who wanted a good lusty man to carryhis beer to the marsh, and to Wisbech;hearing of Tom, went to hire him, hutTom seemed coy, and would not behis man, until his mother and friendsPersuaded him, and hismasterintreatedhim; likewise promised him that heshould have a new suit of clothes andevery thing answerable from top totoe; besides he should eat and drinkof the best. Tom at last yielded to behis man, and his master told him howfar he must go ; for you must under¬stand there was a monstrous giant,who kept some part of the marsh, anddurst not go that way : for if they did,he would keep them, or kill them; or12else he would make bond slaves ofthem.But to come to Tom and his mas¬ter, he did more work in one day, thanall his men could do in three; so thathis master seeing him very tractable,and to look so well after his business,made him his head man to go into themarsh, to carry beer by himself, for heneeded no man with him. Tom wentevery day in the week to Wisbech,which was a very good journey, andit was twenty miles the road way.Tom going so long that wearisomejourney and finding that way whichthe giant kept was nearer by half, andTom before by being so well kept, anddrinking so much strong ale as lie did ;one day he was going to Wisbech, andwithout saying any thing to his mas¬ter, or to any of his fellow servants,he was resolved to take the nearest wayto the wood; or lose his life to win the13horse, or lose the saddle, to kill or bekilled, if he met with the giant; andwith this resolution he goes the near¬est way with his cart and horses to goto Wisbech, but the giant perceivinghim, and seeing him to be so bold,thought to prevent him, and came in¬tending to take his cart from him.The giant met Tom like a lion, as.thought he would have swallowed himup at a mouthful; Sirrah, says he, whoj gave you authority to come this way ?Do you not know that I make all standdn fear of my sight, and you like anilimpudent rogue must come and flingpen my gates at your pleasure ! Howare you presume to do this ? Are youo careless of your life ? I will makehee an example for all rogues underhe sun ; dost thou not care what thoulost; And do you not see how manygeads hang upon yonder tree that haveffended me ! But thy head shall hang14higher than all the rest for an example.Tom made answer, A turd in yourteeth for your news, for you shall not :find me like one of them. No, said ;the giant, why ? Thou art but a tool jif thou comest to fight with such a oneas I am, and bring no weapon to de- ^fend thyself withal. Said Tom, I havea weapon here will make you under¬stand you are a traitorily rogue. Ayesirrah said the Giant, and took thatword in high disdain, that Tom shouldcall him a traitorily rogue, and withthat he ran into his cave to fetch hisclub, intending to dash out Tom’sbrains at the first blow.Tom knew not what to do for a wea- :pon, for he knew his whip would do fbut little good against such a monstrous | libeast as he was, for he was in height iabout twelve feet, and six feet about ithe waist; but while the Giant went dfor his club, Tom bethought himself of t15!|wo very good weapons, for lie makesno more ado, but takes out the axle-■ ree, and a wheel for his shield andi mckler; and very good weapons theyirere, especially in time of need,iI 'Fhe Giant coming out again, beganJo stare at d'om, to see him take theidieel iii one hand and axle-tree inlire other to defend himself witlu O !mid the Giant, you are like to do greatifeafvice with these weapons; I havetjiere a twig that will beat thee and thyarheel and axle-tree to the ground;iiat which the Giant called a twig was(I thick as some mill-posts are, but[|'om was not daunted for all his big|id threatening speeches, for he sawi irfectly there was no way except one,i hich Avas, to kill or be killed; so thei iant made at Tom with such a vehe¬ment force, that he made Tom’s wheel•lack again, and Tom lent the Giant aslod, for he gave him such a weighty16blow on the side of his head, that madethe Giant reel again. What, said Tom.are you drunk with my strong beeralready.The Giant recovering laid on Tom .most sad blows ; but still as they came,Tom kept them off with his wheel, sdi:that he had no hurt at all : In short,; tlorn plied his work so well, and laid isuch huge blows on the Giant, that tsweat and blood together ran down his iface and being fat and foggy, with ■fighting so long, he was almost tiredout, and asked Tom to let him drink ia little water, and then he would fightwith him again. No, said Tom, mymother did not teach me that wit; whowould be the fool then? Tom finding,the Giant began to weary, and that hefailed in his blows, thought it was bestto make hay while the sun did shine,for he laid on so fast as though he was jjimad, till he brought the Giant down!17! to the ground. The Giant seeing him-I self down, and Tom laying so hard on! him, made him roar in a most lament¬able manner, and prayed for him not totake away his life, and he would do any1; thing for him, and yield himself to himland be his servant; but Tom havingij:no more mercy on him than a dog ora bear, laid still at the Giant, ’till he.iilaid him for dead and when he hadIdone he cut off his head and went intoilthe cave, where he found a great storelof silver and gold which made hissjlheart to leap.Now having done this action, killing(the Giant he put his cart togethergain, loaded it and drove it to Wisbechnd delivered his beer; and comingome to his master, he told it to him ;lis master was so overjoyed at thelews, that he would not believe himill he had seen; and getting up thelext day, he and his master went to18see if he spoke truth oi*not togetherwith most of the town of Lynn. Whenthey came to the place and found theGiant dead, he then shewed the placeiwhere his head was, and what silverand gold there was in the cave, all ofthem leaped for joy, for this monsterwas a great enemy to all the country,This news was spread all up anddown the country how Tom Hickathriffhad killed the Giant, and well was hethat could run or go to see the Giantand the cave ; then all the folks madebonfires for joy; and Tom was a betfp,ter respected man than before.Tom took possession of the giant’scave by consent of the whole company. ;and every one said he was deserving!twice as much more; Tom pulleiFdown the cave, built him a fine housawhere the cave stood ; and the groundthat the giant kept by force anstrength, some of w hich he gave to thelft19(poor for their common, the rest he(made pastures of and divided the mostipart into tillage, to maintain him andiliis mother, Jane Hickathrift.Tom's fame was spread both far andinear through the country ; and it waspno longer Tom, but Mr. Hickathrift;iso that he was now the chiefest manamong them; for the people fearedTom’s anger as much as they did thegiant before. Tom kept men and maidservants, and lived most bravely; hemade a park to keep deer in ; near toi|iis house he huilt a church and gaveit the name of St. James’s church, be¬cause he killed the giant on that day,|which is so called to this hour; HeEid many more good deeds, and becamepublic benefactor to all persons thatrived near him.CHAP. IV.'tflow Tom kepi a pack of Hounds: His, Kicking a Foot-ball quite away; Alsohow he had like to have been robbed byFour Th ieves, and how he Escaped.TOM having got so much money20about him, and not being used to it;could hardly tell how to dispose of it,but yet he did use means to do it; forhe kept a pack of hounds, and men tohunt with him; and who but Tomthen. So he took such delight in sports,that he would go far and near to meet¬ings, as cudgel-play, bear-baiting, football, and the like.Now Tom was riding one day, helighted off his horse to see the sport,for they were playing for a wager;Tom was a stranger and none did know;him there ; but Tom soon spoiled theirsport; for he meeting the foot-ball, tookit such a kick that they never foundtheir ball more ; they could see it fly,but whither none could tell; they allwondered at it, and began to quarrelwith Tom, but some of them got no¬thing by it, for Tom got a spar whichbelonged to a house that was blown,down, and all that stood in his way heknocked down, so that all the countrywas up in arms to take Tom, but allin vain, for he manfully made waywherever he came.I21When he was going from them, andreturning homewards, he chanced tobe somewhat late in the evening; onthe road, he met four stout lusty rogueschat had been robbing passengers thatvay, and none could escape them, forhey robbed all they met with, bothrich and poor. They thought whenhey met with Tom he would be a« |;ood prize for them, perceiving that hevas alone, made cocksure of his mon-,y, but they were mistaken for he goti prize of them. Whereupon meetingdth him, they bid him stand and de-i rver. What, shall I deliver ? said Tom,dour money, sirrah, said they. But,lid Tom, you will give me betterr/ords for it, and you must be better,Trued. Come, come, said they, we dotot come here to prate, but we come•r money, and money we will have,before you stir from this place. Aye,rid Tom, is it so, nay then get it, andke it.i*. So one of them made at him, but heesently disarmed him, and took awayf s sword, which was made of goodtrusty steel, and smote so hard at tliothers, that they began to put spurs ttheir horses and begone, hut he soojistayed their journey, for one of thenjjhaving a portmanteau behind him Toiw isupposing there was money in ifought with a great deal more couragthan before, till at last he killed twothe four, and the other two he wouncltied very sore, so that they cried out fofquarter, and with much ado he gavjthem their lives, but took all theijamoney, which was about two hundrerpounds, to bear his expenses homellNow when Tom came home, he toljthem how he had served the four higi,way men, which caused a laughter froJliihis old mother, then refreshing binself, went to see how all things werjand what his men had done since Jwent from home.Then going up into his invest, Jj>1walked up and down, and at last miwith a lusty Tinker, that had a go]staff on his shouldev, and a great dto carry his leather bag and toolswork. Tom asked the tinker wherif2;3he came and v/hither he was going fori that was no highway. But the tinkeri being a sturdy fellow, bid him golook, what was that to him, for foolsi would be meddling. No, says Tom,but I’ll make you know before youei and I part, it is to me. Aye, says1 the tinker, I have been these threeyears and have had no combat withany man, and none durst make meill answer; I think they be all cowards inthis country except it be a man calledTom Hickathrift who killed a giant,him I would fain see to have a com¬bat with him. Aye, said Tom, butimethinks I might be master in yourmouth; I am the man, what have youto say to me ? Why, said the tinker,verily I am glad we have met so hap¬pily together, that we may have onesingle combat. Sure, said Tom, youIdo but jest. Merry, said the tinker,I am in earnest. A match, said Tom,t will you give me leave to get a twig.• Aye, says the tinker, I scorn to fighta man unarmed.Tom steps to the gate, and takes one24of the rails for his staff; so they fell towork, the Tinker at Tom, and Tom atthe Tinker, like unto two giants theylaid the one on the other. The Tinkerhad on a leather coat, and at everyblow Tom gave the Tinker, his coatcracked again, yet the Tinker did notgive way to Tom an inch; But Tomgave the Tinker a blow on the side ofthe head, which felled the Tinker tothe ground. Now, Tinker, where areyou now,said Tom.But the Tinker beino' a man of met-©tie, leaped up again, and gave Tom ablow which made him reel again, andfollowed his blows, and then took Tomon the other side which made his neckcrack a«-ain. Tom fhmo- down the i© © 1weapon, and yielded the Tinker to bethe best man, and took him home tohis house where I shall leave Tom andthe Tinker till they be recovered oftheir many wounds and bruises; whichrelation is more enlarged in, as youmay read in the second part of Tho¬mas Hickathrift.FINIS.