mr t:ie •■'ATiour of the Woslu.AJE- R M O N’reached immediately before the Ce¬lebration of the LORD’S SUPPER,a: httrick. June 7th, 1724** t-*       T  iy the Rev Mr. Thomas Boston,,atc .MiniHer of the Gofpel at Ettrick,[;C— i  , John iv. '4 And wc have fee a and d$: 'iejiijy that'the Anther fcnt his Son to bef the Saviour of the world.hf' mllm/JSPv-zr. >STIRLING:Printed and Sold by C, RakdalCt,’1803.AOS E k M O N.5' John iv 14. And we have fun and cte/lify that the Father Jsnt his Son to be tiSaviour of the worm.JOHN the beloved difciple, in his ep:ties, is ftiil breathing love ; love is tlilring he delights particularly to harp uporSo he is either magnifying God’s love to uor prefling our love to God and to one an'then <-ind his darling fubjeft. love is 1narrow one. hut mofl con prehenfive; ircorprebends both the gofi.el and the law, bofaith and works The love of God to msis the great dodlrine of the goipcd, the rbjeof faith i men's love to Goii and to one anther is the great dedb-ine ol the taw ot tlten commandments, and the vbjeft of ho.practice. And there is a near relation htween the twr> j God*s love is the fountaiour love the lit earn , the former the originholy fire, the fitter the flame kinofi byAccoraingiy in the text there is a difpbnthe love of God, for moving u to loveoanother ; the which difp’ay of divine lovethe fubfbmce of th., goipeiHere then we have,the golpJ whichthe apofiies wer.-. in one w ke to preach uto the world ; A'e h^ve feen and do tgf%, that the Father fent the Son to be t( 5 );0ur of the world/ And therein we may. The gofpel, or glad tidings itfelf, viz.lt ‘ the Father fent his Son to be the Sa¬ar of the world ’ Here is glad news to: world. Chrlb's- miflkm Fhe promifejthis mhTton was made to fallen Adam inadife : Believers nnder the Old Teda* ♦n lived and died in the faith of it- Bat; a no tiles teftified it as a thing performed;he Father fent/ or, 4 hath fent the S°n*te party lent is the Son of God, oar Lordfas Chrift ; no other was fit for this mil--in. ihe party fending, from whom neid his commifion, was the Fatner, the lirlterfon. of the glorious Trinity. None of ajwer dignity could fend one of his digdity.jhe character in which he was fent, is theJon. Saviour of the wdrld/ So the words;re without any fuppliment; of which there| no need h're. So Ghrhl is faicMo haveijome a teacher from God John iii 2 i. e.n the character of a divine teacher. A.s ones fent ambaiFador to fuch a court, that is,^;onltituted by his prince, ambaffador^to thatcourt, and accordingly fent away in. thaticharafter t fo Cnrift was conftitutedy nomi¬nated. and appointed by his bather Savi¬our of the world, and lo fent away into theworld in that character. Ihe world is theworld of mankind indefinitely, ruined byAdam's fin. John iii. 16. * God fo loved,i the world, that he gave his only begotten( 4 )S6n, that whofoever beiieveth on him fhcnot periih hut have everlafting life.' I’hin God's love towards men appeared- 1iii 42 the certainty of this gofpd ortidings 'Vll the apoilles witneifed withmouth, this great truth . And ihey wimled the fame as eye-witneffes, having feenSaviour, and read his commiflion for teflect and beheld heShren’s feai again ancgain f.t to it. ih hi- miracles And this mlter of their witnefling from their eye-figljwas lb much itoed upon that the apofPaul, who was not oiled to be an apoftill alter Chrih’s r. ctnli .it, was al'oved hi|to fee with hi' tye> before he ihopld bt'jwitnds Abb xxvi 16 t have eppeuvunto thee for this vet) purpofe. to make rha minifter and a wi nels borh ot thefe thinwhich thou h ut feen and ot thole thuin the which I ^dl *ppear unto thee 1Doct It is the great truth anu teftinionof the golpel. that ttie haihti has lent hbon Jeiu- Chrilt in the character of Savioui©f trie world.In profecuting this doftrine l (hallt Gitee notice ot iome things impj’'tein-this teftimonyI t)p n t.hi> char dter. ‘ ^Saviour cd thworld,’ in winch Chriu was lent'It. -pplyI l fhali take notice of lume things iai-fprted in this tciUmonj,( 5 )t The v/otld r.'e-ded a S vnur; ofher-:ile one had not b*en provided fir them»v him that does nothirif» in \ \ i. r wasji f.ck world caff into a defp rnt iilnef' byjatincf tiie forbidden fruit i ftn tree, anhyfickn to cure the diiiernp r Vlat ix 12.J‘ Jefus fatd unto them Thev that be whole(need no a phyfician, but they that are lick/jit was a curfed world, ftak d down underIwrath by the /entence of the broken law jand needed a Saviour to remove the curie,nhd brin? in the blefline; iii 26 Godhaving ra’fed up his Son J 1 .s fent him toblef^ you * &c it was a loit world, loft toGod loft to fhemfelves, loft to all good Lftland perishing under the wrath of God ; andlit needed one to leek and lave them, Lukexix. 10. i I'or the ’on of man is tome toftek and to lave that which was loft.’2. None of inferior dignity to the Son ofGod could the S-viour of the world.No nva cr angel was abie to fuftain thechar ift r or Saviour of a loft world : Thewot . which lav to that office,, was abovethe r; acn of the whole creation Rev. v, 3.‘ And no man in heaven nor in earth, mi-th t under the earth was abie to open thebonk, neither to look thereon/ Here wasa trial of the divine love to man * his cafewas hop .lefs and helplefs from all the crea¬tures and it iff.led in that, ‘ God fo lov¬ed the wo-Ui. that he gave his only begot¬ten Son, John iu. 16,( 6 )3* was Tent Savionr of thefrom he aven's proper motion. The p’otfave tnan, was concerted entirely v- nhhim The world did not meet and fendto the court of Heaven vith a petition fa Saviour, that a Saviour was grantedth‘ir earneft entreaties and fupplication.But the Father of preventing free love, fe;his Son Saviour of the world The worldneed fpoke loud but they themfelves wequite blent: and •yet their need fpokelouder than that of the fallen angels;fovereign free grace heard the voice of man*needs while it fiopt its ears to the voice cthe needs of fallen angels, fit iii. 4. 4 8vthe kjndnefs and love of God our Savioutowards men appeared/4. Chrift is fully fumUhed for the favif;of a loll world His being lent in that chr.rafter fpeaks his abiiily to aniwer it 'H*:bvii 25 * Wherefore he is able to have thento the uttermoft, that come unto God b)him feeing he ever iiveth to make intercdlion for them ’ There is no cafe to befound in jthe world, but what there is a remedy to be found in Chrift lor ’Vhcfoeverin the world fhaij die they fn^ll not uie becaufe there no help for ilieir cafe In th*Saviour, but btcapfe they did not employhim, or put their c^fy in his hand The Sa¬viour of the voild is certainty able to favethe v orid j fince he was lent of Godin thatcha rafter.( 7>k Laftly The folvation of loft °1prorld of mankind, is very arceptable to; God and father of our Lord Jelus^ as,11 as to himfelf other he had not ientL Son Saviour of the world i fun u 3,« R0r this is good and acceptable m tueIght of God our Saviour who will have adlen to be laved. Henc^ it -s ea, elen to oc r.„Lifure of the Lord ’ ffa hu io- . 1 -iLafure of the Lord fiiall profper in hisland ’ So he is laid to make the marriage:0r his Son an/d to fend forth to bid tnat[nairiage, Matth xxii Wnence it is evi¬dent. that there is no impediment m tneial-vation of fmners by jefus Chnn, on t e-*ven’s part i it is pleafmg to the tfatner, tobis Son, and to his -pint. oII. I lhaU open this charaaer, oayourof the world ’ in which Chnft was lent jand for that end inquire into two things,j. In what fenfe Chriit is the Saviour ot meworld. 2 h/tut is the bufmefs committedto him as fuch , r. •Firft, In what fenfe Chrift is the Saviourof the vorld. A. Saviour is a name of hon¬our, and a name of bufinefs. It is an hon¬ourable thing to Live and help the miftrable;to be deftined, appointed, and called to thatemployment: Sat the honourable po.c hasbufmeL annexed to it; it will not do wnh-out activity which fuccefs is expected to at¬tend, as in the cafe of a teacher, phyfician,and the like. Now, one may be a Saviour,( S )even ns a teschc-r. or p’ v^ciar of a foe*!!two w9vs t Tn refpfcl of rffi- 3S b‘Jealbe to and mvefted with the r ffice offvmg teaching ^ o: curing o! rhat focitlliind ti is cat; is faviour teacher or phician or that fociety, before ever he fa«!teach or cure any o.r theru. In th • iiipcB one may be ca i’d an offi. ia! fav 0qjteacher or phvfi Lp 2 ]n refpea of tSrevent and fucctfs, as actuaiiy and eventual}laving ^ teaching and healing, As the foJper anfe'h from an cppo iiimem pur upojinch an one; this arifeth from the work hm.'nageth in virtue of that appointment, htn;s refpedt one may de cr lied an j-ftual anceventual faviour ' hus it is fa id, Neh ixn<^ according to thy manifold mencies. thou gave ft them fav lours, whofavedthem out of the hand of their entni'es <This premifed, w e fry,x. 'fur Lord Jefus is the -ftual and e-ventual Saviour of the cleft on y in who’eroom an-: Head only, he died upon the crolsaccording ro the eternal compaft puffed be-tw en him and the Father, in the covenanto; grace otherwife railed the covenant ofrec emption ; for thefe are not two, but oneand the fame ccvenai t rhus the apoftlecalls him the Saviour of the body ’ Eph, v.a3\ is. of rhe eh ft. who make up thebody whereof he was appointed the head4rom erernitv : and in whole name he con-,trailed with the Father in the eternal cove-v y i  nnnt. And he is their Saviour eventually,zsaSuslly faving them Ma .tii 12.* Andfne (hall brin^ forth a Son. and thou (haltciil his nanv jefus ; for he fliall fave hispeop e from their fins.’ None but thcfe uiilever tru!y employ him as a Saviour, or puttheir cafe in his hand r and thete are noneof them but will certainly employ him iboneror later, -v<fU xiii. 48 * As many as wereordained to eternal hte believed ’ John vi 37* All that the Father giveth me, (hall cometo me : aad him that comtth unto me, Iwill in no ways caft out.2 Our Lord Jefus Cbrift is the officialSaviour not of the ek& only, but of theworld of mankind indefinitely ; lo our textcalls him ‘ Saviour of the world Agree¬able to which, God in Ohrid is c?d!ed 4 theSaviour of uil men.’ hut with a fpeciahty,‘ the Saviour of them that believe,’ 1 rim*iv 10. the matter lies here : Like as ap.ince, out of regard to his fubje&s’ wel¬fare, gives a cornmiffion to a qualified per-ion to be a phyfician to fuch a fociety. a rcoi.menf, or the like : and the prince’s commif-hcn conftitutes aim phyfician of that iocie-ty r io that though many of them iiiould ne¬ver employ him, but call other phyficians,yet flili there is a relation betwixt him andthem , he is their phyheian by office ; anyof them -11 may come to him it tney will,and be healed: So God looking upon heruined world of mankind, has conftituteiand rpp'Mr'ed J-fus ( hrift his Ron, Saviou:of thr v-orld : hie has Heaven’s patent fathis> ffi o;p.nduhetc fotverihegofpel comesthif, parent is animated Hereby a rela¬tion i’ < onfiiluted betv.ixt him and the worldof mankind : he is their Saviour, and they!! the objects of his admiuillration: So that ajn/ ol them all may come to him, withoulmoney or price, and be faved by him agtheir own Saviour, appointed them by theFather.That Chrift is thus the Saviour of thevcrld, appears, if ye coniider,i. Scripture-tdtiineny, which is plain.Our text exprefsiy calls him fo : And fo dothe believing Samaritans profefs their faithin him, John iv 42. ‘ We have heard himourfelves and know that this is indeed theChriit, the Saviour of the world.’ Youhave the appointment cf Heaven very plainthereanent, John iii. 19. * Goo jo loved theworld, that he gave his only begotten Son,that whofoever fcelieveth in him tlvouldnot perifh, but have everlafting life evenas the brssen ferpent, lifted up on the polein the wildernefs, was the ordinance oi Godfor healing the flung perfons of the wholecamp of Hrael. Hence Chrilt’s falvation iscalled ‘ the common falvation/ Jude ver 3.a falvation which any of mankind finneismay lay hold on. So rhe Saviour’s birth islaid to be * glad tidings for all people ’ Lukeii. 10, i j. which it could not have been, ifAfcHJi( II )fte had not been a Saviour for all people.Wherefore, he himielf teiiifies, that he cameto fave the world, John hi 17. 4 God feiitnot his Son into the world to condemn theworld ; but that the world through himmight be laved * Chap xii. 47 ‘ l camenot to judge the World but to fave theworld-* Ms was his office, to fave finners,but finners of mankind indefinitely, withoutexception, 1 im, i. 15. * This is a faith¬ful laving, and Worthy of all acceptation,that Chrifi; Jefus came into the world tolave Tinners j* the loit, Luke xix 10 ‘ TheSon of man is come to feek and to fave thatwhich is loft;’ 2 Cor, v. 19, ‘ God wasin Chrift, reconciling the woild unto him-felf. not imputing their trefpalfes unto them:*To the fame purpofe he declares himielf* the iight of the w?orld,* namely by office,John viii. 12. that whofoever may employhim may have the light of life.2. If it were not fo, he could hot war-rantably be offered with his lalvation to theworld, indefinitely, but to the ek£t only ;more than he ckn be offered lawfully to fal¬len angels, who were not within his comimf-fiohas a.Saviour For the minifterial cffrrcan neveiMawfully crrry the ni .tter beyondthe bounds of Chrift’s eomsmiTion from hisFather. But Chrift and ni“ alvition, .naybe. warrantably offered to the whole worldof mankind finners, with affurance thatwhofoever of them will employ him to laveh)I'1t4{'[»■ .■ I< 12 )ihem, he fta!! be faved : Mark xvi, i i6.‘ o ye unto .ail the-v.osid, and prea< h■ ^i.:.pd to every creature. He tluit bc-lieveth fhail bt fave i . bur he that befitvethnot {Iiail be damnetMor-.ovtr, it itwere not fOj the unbelief o: hearers of thegoipf l not defied, their not ce rning toClnift for falvation, could not be their jin :For it can never be one’s f:n not t«> co athing he has no warrant for j not to employone to favc him, whom Ond never appoint¬ed ;o be hi> ■'aviour. » it is not the fill offallen angels that they believe not in Chriftfor falvation. becruienrhey are not within theSaviour’s cominifiioff: no of thofe who ne¬ver heard or . 'i.ijft b sc a rife his commiffioawas never inirtriatdd to them But not be-lievinc in Chrift the haviou;, is the lin thatreins the hearing, of the go!pd who do at allp.iiflr John iii 16 ‘ ind this is the con-dtiimation <hat light is conn :i to the woi !d,and men* loved darknefs rather than light,becaufs their deeds were c il.’ Finally, Ifit were not fo, the defi themfelves couldnot believe in Chrtfi, till, in the firit place,their eltfiion was revealed to them ; whichis contrary to the {fated method of grace f orthey can never believe in ChrTf^ for 'heirJfalvanon tdi they fee him to be a Saviourfor hemThere are two things further to be re¬marked on this headi. The ground upon which Chrift might*%-.iv *3 )be conflituted Saviour of the world by o£.fict. Anti tha'1 w. s the Ji fHciency of ’■oemerit oi his death and (uif rings; For,ilvugl; Cr-riii did only in the room andfiesd oi his eu£t, on the crofs tuiiairoi gthe r perions oniv. according to that johux< 15. ‘I Ly down my liie ior the (beep**yet the price paid tor than being oi infi-nite worth was lufficient in ith It to iavethe whi le world t he breao providfd forthem, viz a crucified Chriii, wa.- fufiici ntto give life to and teed, not only them butthe whole world of mankind; anil theie-fprc, he might be appointed Saviour of tneworld, J hn vi. 33. 51. The bread oi Godis he which cometn down from heaven andgiveth life unto the w'crld. i am the livingbread which came down from heaven Ifmy man eat oi this bread, he (hall live forivtr : And the bread that I (hail give is myIcih, which I will give ior the life oi theivorld *2 The reafon why he was actually ccn-lituted the Sav.our ci the world, unoi >, ie-•erai rcalons that might be given for this. £hail Only cbiene here this one. namely,1 ha- it vas put upon iiim as a piece of hon->ur the reward or his great ietvice.s in ay-nc down liis hit for and inftead of thole* bu were the cbjicts of his Father's eiccUiov,', Ifa xlix. 5. 8. ' \iia he laid, it- 'e 1 ght thing that thou {huuldeii: be ivytivaiu, to laife up t»ie tubes oi Jacob, and( 14 )to reH ore the prcferved of Ifrael: I v<i!I £||fo give thee for a light ro the Gentile*., th||thou niayefl be my lalvgtion unto the endsthe earth, thus iaith the Lord. Ln an alceptable time have l heard thee and iniday ot falvation have i helped thee, andviiil preferve thee- and give thee for a cov<naht of the people ' i he Father, for tbtcaule, invtfted him with '' all power in hesven and earth/ Matth xxviii i3 Johan21 22. • As the father faiftd up the deacand quickeneth them, even fo the Son quichfcneth whom he will For the Father judgeth no man ; but hath comftntted all jud^mem unto the Son * And it was a rewartiuitabie unto his work.Secondly, What is fhe bufinefs committed to him as Saviour of the world. Not t-defcend into partictilars here, we may takit up in thefe two.. i. It is to fave f.nners frcm their finfeMatth i. 2i. ' Thou flialt call his name Jesus ; for he fhall fave his people from theifins/ Satan mined the world by bringingfin upon them : Thereby thfey were bouncby the cords of guilt, the image of Gocin them was defaced, they Were polluterand made loathfome, and fhut up in ththands of a flrange lord. God has appoint¬ed Chrift the Saviour of the world, that th£Loners may come to him, and be delivered:fr<\m their fins, i John iii 8. ‘ He thaiconmitteth fin is of the devil. For the de-{ 5 ) .vi! fmneth from the beginning. For thispiirpofe, the ->on of mai was manifcfted,that he might dehroy the works of the de¬vil ' It was an inveterate difeafe. the cureof which was quite beyond tl e reach of anymere creature, as far as the railing of thedead is : fo he was appointed Saviour in thecafe. Pfalm Ixxxix 16. * I have laid helpupon one th^t is mighty l have exalted onecholen cut of the people.*2 It is to fave finners from mifery, tofree them from deftruction rfofea xiii. 9.> O Ilraec ihou t»aif ueitroyecithyfelf, butmme is thine help.* they are by fin madeobjects of wrath, laid under the curie of thebroken law, liable to revenging wrath fortime and for eternity : He is appointed tofave them horn all this, upon their comingto him, and employing him tor that pur-pofe, Ifaiah xxxn. 2. * Ana a man lhaii beas an hiding place from the wind, and acovert from the tempeft ; as rivers of waterin a dry place, as the fhadow of h greatrock in a weary land * Sin let in a deluge■of mHeries on the world which flow aboutthe tinner continually in a greater or lefierrneature : He is a Saviour to dry it up torthem 1 Cor. i. 30. ‘ But of him are ye inChriit jefus who of God is made unto uswifdom, and righteoufaeis, and fanctihca-tion, and redemption.’Use i. Of Information.x. Behold here, admire, and believe th®ereat love of God to 4 loft wor’d, in provicl'iing a Saviour, and Inch a Saviour for themeven his own Son he Sciipture fpeaks qithis in a very hi.?:h ffrain (elm lii 1 q|‘ God fo loved the World, that he^ave hu)only begotten Son ’ &c. • here vas a nnnalove in Goa Tit iii 4. * But the kineimiffland love or God our Saviour toward masHappeared A love of the kind, mankinefflIt has appeared in two eminent inftanctsfj(1.) In leeuring by an irrevetfible decree jthe falvation of iom of them ' -' 2 : In pro Ividing^a Saviour for the whole of the kind |conftituting his own Saviour to the loft fans;iiy of idam indefinitely. Believe it withapplication to yourfelves.. If upon this a fecret murmur Degins to go through you?heart Bu it was not for me ; cruth it in tinbud, for it is a bud of hell If you are no;one of the devil-kind, bur of finful mankind,it was for you. The Father gave Chrift aSaviour for you That if you would beiievecn him you fhculd not perifii ; he ft at hisSon rom heaven witlt full inftrudhons andampit powers to lave you if you w-.ll be¬lieve And is not this love ? Believe it, andit util be the way to let you into a fight olmoK love.i B hold here a broad and firm found-at o o. faith for all and tverv one of vou tthat vou may come to Chrili whatever you!;calc ii> ant) claim his rig^ eo i!n fs -rad ,hiswhole laivation for yourietvta, to him as the( *7 )reFnpe appoint'’^ cor you by the ^atheff»om fin an ’ wrath with mu-.h ^reet omas a (Umg (fra'. iite might ha*.e lo ik.fd tothe brazen fe pent: That vbtt ma- whollytrull cn him that he will fav ^oa from fin.and wiath. ror he was fent of the fatherSaviour of the world ; and if by the fa¬ther’s appointment, he is Saviour of theworld he is, by office vour Saviour andmy Saviour, fince we are members o; that •world of mankind ; fo th-.< we m iy, bx .faith claim his laving us from fin andwrath i as a h.holar bred in a plac s maycltim teaching ct him who is appointedmalbr of a free fchoo! in that pi ce ; asthofe of a congregation may claim pre; ch¬ine of their o ’■n miniver and as the wound¬ed in batfle may claim heali ie of iheir ownphyfictan who has a commiffion to be phy-fician to treir regiment. for we teltify,that the father feat his Son Saviour of theworld' 3 Sinners, living in their fins, pming a-I‘Way and about !o periih etcrn liy in them^ are without excufe For 4 we tefiFy that| the father has fent his Son Saviour of the|world ’ John xv •si. ‘ If I had no comeand fpoken un o them, they had' not had.fin : But now they have no cmak for their•fin ’ Sinners arc deftroyed with their livingland raging lulls thev are rundown withvhem as v»;th running fores thrir iouls rebleeding to death with them as with mortaj. ■ '  5 af' ,]" %\)( i8 )$wounds: Tm this cafe they held on overthe belly.of thtii convictions; anti they faythey cannot help it One canno: h<’p hisfwearing j another hh fenfuality ano herpride, paffion covetoufinfs, grois igno¬rance. his old corrupt, unretiewed heart.But the truth is, ye will rot have it helped,John v. 40 Ye will not corns to me, natye may have life.* Stye caonor help • jehave a Saviour who tan help it and v.o ddcertainly help it if you would employ him.Know it of a truth if any of you li all : e-rifiv and if ye go on in your tins, ye ida:i .perifh, ye firs* not perHh for want oi a Sa¬viour.At the tribunal of God, the devils mayfay. We could not be faved ftom our'fins :• for there was no Saviour appointed;for us ; The Pagans may lay We could r otbe faved ; lor though w'e were wirhin tiiecompals of the Saviour’s commilliorr, yetwe neve 1 heard it. it never was iniiniatetlto us. But what will ye get to lay, for thatye are not faved from your fins ; when yourSaviour Hull fit judge upon you and con¬demn von to fufftr the vengeance of eterna.fire for that vou woidd have none oi himnor his lalvatioa; ye would not be ieve<from your fins, would not put your c ie ii( ip '■would rather die in your fins than employhim.4 Believers themselves miy he afhamed^nu confounded, for that iniquity prevails foagairft them. A.las ! ;'t is a fad fign the Savi¬our is little employed among uf. Little liv¬ing by faith, makes little holinefs of life. 0look to that fin. that fo eahly befe’s vou, thathas fo often wrexked your foul’s eafe.: .Re¬lieve you have a Saviour for it, and employhim.Use 11. For Trial. 'Try whether the Saviour of the world, byoffice is your actual Saviour; whether or nothe has favdd you. hink not that Chriftputs off his having of finners, till they cometo heaven : True they are not completelyfared till they be there ; but,- if your falva-tiou.by Chrill is not begun here, you fnallnever get there ’ itus ii:. 5-6 7. ‘ Mof byworks ot rightcoufneis w hich we have done,but according to nis mercy he laved us bythe wafting of regeneration, and renewingoi the Holy Gholl: which he fted on «sabundantly through Jefus Chriil our Savi¬our : hat. being juftihed by his grace,we ftould be made heirs according to thehope ot eternal life * And ye have noright before the Lord to his labie, if he hasnot been a Saviour to -'ou atfually and event¬ually. in having fjjved you from fin andwrath initially thougli not completely : Forif it is not lo, it is an evidence you have not(” 20 ^feoMver^ him as\ o-'T S ' inur: for no fooft.er i' 1 • e mployed by a fiantr, but be beginsto fav;- tl at fipnet.Mark i. U Cbrin' bas really berrun tofave you, ve viU wilt have* the faved man’sthoughts of fsu and of fhe wrath of God.If a drowned man were pulled ah've out of'a water, or a filthy, {finking puddle ■ and i(landing at the 'fide of it looking ro ir af¬ter that glifF: what would be his thoughts jof that water, that puddle where he was’-once over head and ears, and almofl: gone ?Surh will be your thoughts of fn and of1the wrath of God. Ye wij! have aw mland reverend thoughts of the wrath ofGod above ail awful things hfeb xiii. 28.:29. ‘ therefore, we reviving a king¬dom which cannot be moved let u have:grace, whereby we may ferye God ac-ceptab’y with reverence and godly fear,for our Go ! is a confuming fire 1 Matth.lx 28. bear not them which kill 'h bo¬dy, bu‘ are not able to kill the fou' : But.rather fear Him who is able to deflroy;both Ion! and body in he!I.’ H all ter¬rors it will be to you the mod terrible.Tho!> in thexft?.te of wrath they are ei¬ther fo as they have lod their fenf s in it;they know nor where theyfare they aredreaming of fome pleafant place ; ,nd lothev eo on peaerfuliv in their urn, undil-turbed with the thoughts of wrat‘- , or thethey have fome terrible appreheafions ©f it;jf( )But there is fomething iriore terrible : andtherefore, they will rather fin than fufferthe hardships attending duty yea attend¬ing modification : or elfe their heart is fire-hot with the r^tror of the wrath of God,and, in the mean time at leafc key-cold oflove and child-like afieftion to the God iwhole wrath it is But the faved foul looks ?on it as of all things the moh awful but.in the mecit time with a child.like reve¬rence of and adeclion to that God whofewrath it is.Marie 2. Ye will have a tranfeendent e-fteeni of and love to your Saviour i Peterii. 7. • Uuto you who believe he is pre-cv us 5 His confcient e-purifying blood hisfoul icnctifying Spirit,, -will be more valua-b'e to you rhan a thoufand wori/s ye willdenre them above all things pant and longafter h m and av more and m >re of them ; .and, in companion of them all the worldwill bt but trifl s in your etes which \ewill be content to part with to gainth-m Matthew xiii ^9. Thn merchant¬man when he had found oje. pearl ofgre .t price h wer>t ano loid - !< that hehad. and s ought it. Luke xiv 29 • f anyn.an come to me am hate no; hi- fa.her,am r. other, and wife, arc) cid* ren ndbiethrtn and filters ve- ano Ids own lifealio, fit canr-^t be i< y tic pie’ iJ; i in. ^8,9. Yea dcuotlrls an com t ah ti-mgsbut lots, for the exccliency of the know- ■ i■f 22 )ledge of Chrifl: Jefus my I ord ; for whomI have fuffered the lofs of all things, anddo count them but dung that l may winChrifl and be found in him not havingmine own righteoufnefs which is of thelaw, but that which is through the faith ofChrifl. the righteou'nefs which is of Godby faith,’Mark 3- Laflly, Ye will be groaning un¬der the remains of the difeafe of fin ve arei Jlaved ftom ; your confcience will witnefsye would he wholly rid of it Rom. vii. 24.‘ O wretched man that < am, who fhali de¬liver me from the body 0* this death !*Your fouls will be longing for the com¬plete falvat'oo ; that the enemies may fee t§-day ye may fee no more lor ever ; that yemav get a- oomph te victory over all yourcorruptions Rom viii 23. ‘ We curfelvesgroan within ourfelves waiting foi the adop¬tion to wit. the redemption of our body.*Use LaflReceive the Lord Jefus then, O finners,& that charadler wherdn his Futherfent him,as the Saviour of the world, and your Savi¬our. Ye are ioft in your fin^ and lolt undecthe wrath of God and the fcurfe of the law ;come to him for his whole falvadon- Em¬ploy him put your caft in his hand as yourS viour by the Father’s appointment j andflight him no more.Motive 1. Cenfider yoii need a Savieufi.Your difeafe of flu will ruin yoUj if y& be' C ti . • . .^B*1 ifaotfavad from it The guilt ofit v/ill Hakeyiou down under wrath and the wrath ofIGodwill fink you info hell. And while finjkeeps its dominion over you, be fare theJguiit is not removed Matth. ix. 12 ‘ t heyIthat be whole need not a phyfician, but theythat are lick ’ Gen ii. 17- ‘ But of the treeI of knowledge, of good and evil, thou (haltj no* eat of it: For in the day shat thou eatcfi:I thereof, thou ftwlt finely die.’Mot 2. There is no Saviour befides ChriftAtts iv j 2. ' Neither is there falvation inany other : For there is none other nameunder heaven pivea among men wherebymull be fayed.’ All others are phyficians ofno value. All your own endeavours willnot five you, nor any thing any creaturecan do for you.Men 3. He is able to fave you. Heb.vii. 25. ‘ Me is able to fave them to themtermofl that come unto God by him.*Whatever be vnur cafe there F infinite me¬rit in his blood ro take away the deep ftguilt, i John i 7. ‘ l he blood of JefusChrift his Son cleanfeth from aft fin.’ Thereis an infinite 'fficacy of hi Spirit to fan&ifythe moft unholy. 1 Cor. vn n. ‘ And fuchwere lome of vou : bur ye arc w fhed, butye are fan&ifted. but ye are jultified in thename of the ord Jems, by the Sp'rit ofour God.’ If ye count it, ye dilhonourChrift and his Father who fent him PialmIxxxix. 19. * i hen thou fpakeit in vifion to?>iy holy One, and faidfl, i have laid held!upon one that is mighty ; l have exalted ons:chofin out of the people *Mot 4. Heis w illing to faveyo i Rev xxtiJ17. And the Spiric and the bnde lay. Come,*And r’et him tha^ hearerh fay Come. And h thim thatis athirft. come: And whomever willlet him take the water of lift freely ’ The only'thing ^’anting is your willingnefs robelived,J«r xiii 27. Wo unto thee, O Jerufajem,wih thou De made clean ? when <hall it oncebe ?’ he’-e is no tear of b> ing rejeded if vecome John vi. 37. Him ihatcorneth to meI will in no \v;fe call out.’ He has taken onehim the office of oaviour o 'he world andhe cannot refufe the buhnef 0: r’.Vlor 5 ,a(Hy fe mull either recei ve himas your . viour from fm and wrath, accord..ing to his comniiffion ; or ye wjll be, and beheld refufrrs of him for your Saviou> .herhis Father has nominated and eomnidiioivdhim for that effect Comh'-r how ye willam ver that before thejudg.den featQuell, low fh.dl receive him and employhoc ? ' \n(. iiy faith by beheving on him,B. ing cmvin ed of vour fin an curled (fate,and den ring o ne laved from oth believe 1Chri isy mrSavi urby hisFv.r.er'sappoint¬ment am: fo w ho lv trulf on him as a ru. i-fie': S’vioar. for his'whole falv t.on «,n theground of God's faithfulnels in his word.