MORNING, on ACTIONSERMONON THESUFFERINGS OF JESUS CHRIST:BY THEREV. JOHN LOGAN, F. R. S. Edinburgh.TO WHICH IS ADDED.THE CONSECRATION PRAYER.NEWTON-STEW ART:Publislied and sold Wholesale and Retail, bjJ. M'Nairn.Luke xxi'i.Ami being in agony.—The agony of our Lord in the garden, and. his complaints upon the cross, are the mostextraordinary parts of his life. A dread ofthose sufferings which he was to undergo, ap¬pears to have made a stfong impression up¬on his mind. Forebodings of them frequent¬ly disturbed his repose, and overwhelmedhis spirits. Many days before his passion,he cried out, “ Now am I troubled, and what“ shall I say ? Father, save me from this“ hour.” It \Vas probably with a view toconsole his mind in such a dejected state,that he was transfigured; that he re-assumedthe glory which he had with the Father be-foie the foundation of the world, and wasfavoured with the presence of Moses andElias from the mansions of immortality; or,as we are informed by the Evangelist, theytalked ofthaf decease which he was to accom¬plish at Jeruselam. Magnanimity in all itsexertions was a conspicuous part of his char¬acter. He who walked upon the water, whoslept in tranquillity amid the storm, and whoencountered the foe of mankind in the de¬sert, cannot be accused a detect of courage.When a band of soldiers, with Judas at theirhead, came to apprehend him, and enquiredfor Jesus of Nazdreth, he said unto them,“lam he ; ” and by the dignity of his de-pieanour, struck them with awe. When he3was accused by the. chief priests and eldersbefore the judgment seat of Pilate, with thatmajestic silence which is, sometimes the bestexpression of iortitudc^ he nmtsw’ered not aword. Nay, when he urtderwent the severestof his bodily sufferings upon the cross, heendured them with,a tranquillity, a firmnessand magnanimity, which display a mind tru¬ly great and undaunted. How, therefore,on some other occasions, his spirit was over¬whelmed, is a subject worthy of our enquiryat all times ; more particularly on this day,when we have assembled together to renewthe memorud of his death upon the cross,and to recall the remembrance of all his suf¬ferings.In fuither discoursing upon this subject* Ishall, in the fiwt place, set before you theaccount which is given of his sufferings ; andsecondly, endeavour to assign the causes ofiLeim . ■ ■ ; .H -r, . ■ ':w ' !In the Jirst place, 1 am to set before youthe account which is given of his sufferings.That night in which he was betrayed, theSaviour of the world went into the garden ofGethseinane, and ascended the mountain ofOlives, as he was wont to do. This had been,his accustomed retreat from the world , herew as the halhnved ground to w hich he retiredfor prayer and contemplation; here he hadoften spent the night in intercourse with4hearon. lie was accompanisd by Peter,.faHios, and John, the very same disciplestwin) had been the witness of his gloriousransfiguration, when Moses and Elias hadappeared to him, and a voice had come fromthe overshadowing cloud, “This is my ho^loved Son in whom “ I am well pleased.?'V» liat a ditl’crent scene now’presented itself?the rays ofglory shone no more ; the Divinepresence was withdraw n; the voice fromheaA’en ceased; that time wa» now come,which is so cmj)hatically called the hour andpower (^' darkness. . < .He had lately partaken of the passoverwith Ids diseiples ; t hat'passover wiiieh, withso much earnestness, he had desired to eat ;lie had instituted tlie holy sacrament of thesupper ; he had delivered those divine dis¬courses recorded in the Gospel of John ; hohad warned them against deserting him inthe hour of temptation ; he had selectedthree of them to attend him in his sorrows :nevertheless, even these three thus favoured,thus honoured, thus w’arncd, forgot all thathad been said and done, and, unconcerned,sunk into sleep. He was left alone to endin'ethe bitterness of that hour.The severity of his sutterings in the gar¬den, the anguish and the honor which thenoverwhelmed him, appear from the strongcolours in vdiieh they are drawn by the sa¬iled w riters. They speak of his sonow:5“ My soul is exceeding sorrowful, ev.n uhttodeath.” They speak of his agony, that iv t]iemost inexpressihle torment of mind : “ .»Hjbeing in agony.” They speak of his feai-s .“ He was heard in that lie feared. Theyspeak of his cries and his tears : “ He offer¬ed up prayers and supplications with strongcrying and tears.” They speak of the prodi¬gious effects his agony had upon his body ;“ His sweat was as it were great drops ofhlood.” They speak of the desire he lutd towithdraw from his sufferings for a time-;“ Father, if it be possible, let this cup passfrom rne.”They who are acquainted with the style ofthe holy Evangelists, know how remarkablethey are tor simplicity of narrative. Theymake use of no oratorical arts to interestthe passions of their readers, they effect nothreatening^ or embellishments of eloepicnee,but place the. plain action before our view,devoid of all ornament whatever. Histori¬ans contemporary to the events which theyrecord, and who beheld the actions: whichthey describe, usually give free vent to theirpassions in relating the occurrences of theirhistory, and enter with the zeal of partiesupon the various subjects which engage theirattention. The sacred writers, on the otherhand, lay aside every thing that looks likepassion or party y,eal; tliey relate events notlike men who are interested in the facts wh ch6'fh<‘V : not like men who had acteda pA»'t in the history they write; not evenw.th the ordinary emotion of spectators, hotwith all the simplicity, and conciseness, andbrevity, of an evidence in a court of justice.The torments whieh our Saviour endured inthe garden, therefore, must have keen greatand amazing, when the sacred writers doththem with all the circumstances of terror,and paint them in all the colours -of distress.What shall we say, then, to account for thisdejection which our Lord felt, ainl for thisdesire which he expressed to he saved ft omhis sufferings; in the ordinary-course of hu-tnan affairs, an innocent man hf <comhftonifortitude resigns himself with acquiescenceto his fate ; Ws integrity supports him ; agood cause ai(t,d a. good conscience carry himonwards thrjough,life and 'deat'li, undaunteiland undismayed. JJenoe, many ifFustriousand victual^ men inthc heathen world, siq>-ported.hy the iKilivc fortitude of the humanmind, poured contempt upon tdl the fotwsof death, gnd departed with-magnanimity andwith glory. If a mail who lujd only inno¬cence to support him, might thus acquiescein his doom, one whose sufferings were tohe publicly useful, whose death was to begot ions to himself, pud leinfichd to theworld, might rejoice iu the midst of his suf¬ferings, and result in the prospect of death.In the early times of the Christian Church,7►the first followed their l ord in a1mth that was marked with blood ; persons)f all ranks, ofall ag.es, and ot both sexes,‘ntved the ra^e of the enemy, the sword of; ie persecutor, the tire of the tormentor,- be-'3 tine candidates for the crown of martyrdom;land with triumph embraced that very formaf death at which our Lord, to appearance,now trembled and stood aghast.Tliis leads us to Hm second thing propos¬ed, which Was to account for these appear¬ances,-=-to assign the Causes of our - Lord’sIjpeculiur sufferings. In general; then1, therewere circumstances in the passion of oticLord, of a singular kind, fully adeipiaf e toproduee the effects here mentioned Whatthese were will appear when we considerthat our Lord died* in a state wlnue he wasabandoned by his friends, artd by mankind ;and he died in a State of ignomy ra and thathe died in a state, where, after suffering aitagony of spirit, he Was at last forsaken' byhis Father in heaven. 'While the two formeri of these eau hardly be paralleled in-all theirj ciwumstances, the last is entirely p<^*uluir to] our Lord, and constitutes the ctiief brunch ofI his sufferings'. :;vi- '' 'i'1'irst, He died in a state where he was a*handaned by Ins friends and hy tnankiiul.—-From the beginning he found the world a-I gainst him. HC came untb his own, andhis own received him tmt. He was to beftriade perfect througl) suflrerirgs, and manywore the distresses; which wrung his heart, 1:before the disease which he>accomplished at ‘Jerusalem. * cTliisiw'as the severest of all, from the man itfold terrors that were now combined togeth- t!er. He had not only to cany his own cross,to hare hi$ head crowned with thorns, to he tderided and buffeted, to be extended upon the taccursed tree, to suff'er the seourge, fhe nails itend the spear. All this he nvas superior tor;but to be abandoned by bis friends, and by rall mankind, at the Very time he was snfl'er-ing for their sakes, was the peculiar and for¬lorn fate of the Saviour of the world.The presence of our friends, in the ehour 1'of trial, gives a seclet strength to the mind ; ;it affords a malenoholy pleasure to die a-,mong those with whom we lived. But this ieonsolation our Saviour had not. He had I<‘hosen tu-’clvefriends to he the partners of 1bis life, and the eompanions tff bis tleath—One-of these betrayed .him ; another denied 1him ; all forsook him and tied.It is some relief to the unhappy snflorer I-to have the passions of the spectators onhisside ; from their sympathy he deafves cou¬rage, and the pain that is felt by many is al¬leviated to the ohe who suffers. But the high tand the low, the Jew and tlie Heathci , eji-tered into.the conspiracy against Christ.— t9I 'The.priests and elders accused him. The'High Priest cried out, ‘‘He is guilty ot‘“death.” Pilate, his.judge, though consci¬ous of his iinioueuee, though he washed his! luiuds from the guilt of his death, ordered! hiur to l>e scourged,, and allowed id m to beJd crucitied. Tlie |.Kiuplo, witli a frantiutrnlour,ljsought his death. That very people, who, afew days before, upon his triumphal entry|l into Jerusalem, had strewed the way withpalm branches, and cried out, “ Hosanna to•the Son of David,” that very people, such is|| the giddiness of the multitude, now cried out,“ Cmuei ty him, crucify him.” Thus in hissorrows^, he stood by himself* a wrcche<l in-i; dividual without a friend. When the Shcp-i herd wtis smitten, the sheeji were scatteredi ahi'oad. He trode the wine jircss alone.—Jurthe people thrre were none with- linn.—•l iWhen he died for all, he was pitied by none.In the second place, He died in a state ofliignominy. The death of of the cross was notihouly painful u^d. tormenting, but ignomini-iiotis also, and accurstMl,—a death that Ava riiusvcr uidictesl upon free men-, Imt reserve4for sla ves and/malefactors/ for the basest andpie- vilest of the human kind. There is im-plant<4 in the mind of man a, strong abhor-rance of shame and disgrace. The sense ofaguomy is more pungent m a noble nature,It ban the feelings of pain. To want the ap¬pearance of innocence, while,? at the same;otimo, wrf preserve the reality; te lie underthe iitppdtatfoiT of heinous crimes,‘to die thedeath of a criminal, and leiive the world withan indelible stain uporr our name and memo* frv, is One ofthe sorest trials that virtue canmeef'with: upon earth. Yet even this our ,Lord had to suffer. He had to endure the i< toss, and Subrnft to* the shame. It was fore* 4told hy the! prophet, that he'should he “ num*hered" among transgressors.” And although,be was holy, harmless, undeflled, and seper-ate from sinners, yet he was impeached ofthe highest Crimes ; not only as a violator ofthe Divine law, in breaking the Sabbath, andfrequenting the company of sinners, but alsoas an imposter,'deluding the people ; as ahiasphetner, assuming to liiittself the prero¬gatives Pf (Jod t and as a seditious person,pervert;:ig the natron'. Usurping royal autho¬rity, &nd;forbiddmg to give trihute to Ceesar.■** If Ke' had not been a maletaotor,” said the.lews to Pilate, we shdttldhot have deliver*ed him up to ihee.*^ Yhe resentment ofsuch a situation out Lord felt strongly, anddiscovered in that remarkable speech, “Areye come against me as against a thief, withswords and \f jth staves ? ” Thus, our Lordwas nert only a sufferer, hut m appearance acriminal, hehad not only to endure the painbut the ignomy of the Cross ; not onfy to hewounded and tonnCnfodj hut also to bemocked, reviled, and scorned by the vilest of11mankind. Then .were fulfilled the words ofthe: mystical Jhroj>he£ f‘ I am a reproach of“ inen, and despised of the people. All theythat see me, laugh me to scorii: they shoot'‘out the lip, they shajke the head, .saying,. “ He trusted on the Lord, that he woyld de-liver him, seeing he delighted in him.”—There is not a circumstance in. the historyof mankind so ighominous, and to. an inge¬nuous nature so tormenting, as tlie follow.-jijg which is recorded (hy the Evangelists—Pilate said, '‘ Shall !Release Jesus?, they allcried, not this man,! “ biit Barabbas. !No\yBarabbas was a robber, ,There is a misappreherision into which weare apt to fall, in.consideringjthe sufferingsof Jesus Christ. Whenev'ev lie .appears be¬fore our eyes, the splendour of his. Divinityovercomes the mind, and in the Lord of Glo¬ry, the man of sorrows is Jprgptten. But,my friends, you are to^ r(ediemher that as<iod is by his nature incapable of pain orsorrow, in all scenes of distress, the Divinitywithdrew, that the Htwcmity might suffer.Yes,Christians, the man Christ Jesus waslike one of ourselves, as encompassed withthe same infirmities, and subjected to thesame distresses ; as accessible,to sorrow, andas sensible of ighomy and pain. . .Thirdly, Our Lord died, iii a state, whereafter undergoing an agony of spirit, he wasat last forsaken by his Father ht heaven.—-The presence of ,Qo(lv and the awls of hisHoly Spiritj have always beep the consohi*lion of good men in theiy afflictions. Theyexperienced the fulfilpient of these promises.As thy days are, so shall thy strength be.“ When thou goest through the 'vaters, I“ will go witll thee, and through the rivers,“ they shall not o\ erflo\v'tj^eg.; Our fathers“ trusted in thee,,; saitlt the Psalniist, “ they“ trusted, and thou didst deliver them.”—But in the sufferings endured by the Re¬deemer in the garden, and on the cios«*God departed from him, and the divine pre¬sence Mas withdraMii.Christians! u hat an hour Masthat, Mhichour Saviour passed in the, garden of Getlnsemane! In the tiipe of his passion, his tor¬ments succeeded one another. He wus notat the same time betrayed, inockedi seourgcil,croM ned with thorns, pierced vvith a spear,extended on a cross, and forsaken by his Fa¬ther ; hut here all these toi merits rose before., him at once Y all his pains M erc united tp-.gether : M'hat he wi|s t/> enduretiri succession,.noMr crowded iutr one moment, and his soulM:as overcoine. At this time, top, the pow¬ers of darkness, it should seem, were permit¬ted to work upon, his imagination, to dis¬turb his Spirit* and:make the vaie throughM'hi£h lw‘ mus to pass appear more dark amigloomy. , '4,4.4 U thisjjthat; pur Savioui nav.ing now13co.mc to the close of his public life, hi.s wholpfiiedii»torial umlertaking pre^ejitcvl itself toiis view ; his eye ran over , the history ofthat race tyhioh he came to save from the .loginning to the end of time; he had aooJingof aU the misery, and a sense of althe ^nilt of tnein If he looked back intolast times, what did he behold ? The earthl held of blood, a vale of tears, a theatre ofrimes. If he cast his eyes upon that oneit which he lived, what did he behold? Thhtlation to whom he was sent, rejecting theiiounsel pf'Qod against themselves, impre-;ating his blood to be upon them and theirChildren, arid bringing upon themselves suchi desolation as has not happened' to any)ther peojple. When he looked forward toucceediog ages, what did he bejipiil? lieaw that the wickedness of men was to con-inue and abound, to erect a Golgotlia. inwery age, and by obstinate inipenitenc<‘ torueify afresh the Sou of God. He saw fiiafn his blessed name, and under the banners'f his cross, the miist atrocious crimes \yjgrpo he committed, the sword of peiv-centum0 be drawn, the best blood of tlje eavth to!>e shed, and the oobb st spbils that ;o\or..raced the Wva'id 4ft Up cut off; j|e *aw thatlr ^ thp l^m/ftn 14M'0, all the etfoJ'Gif •saviiig. mercy were to be dellalod ;, that1 is deatti was to ho of no avail; that hisnlood was to l>o shed in vaifi; that his ago. ,Hnies were to !>e lost,and that it liad beethappy for thorn if he had never been born.-He saw that ho was to be wounded in thhou$e of ids friends ; tljat his. name was tbe blasphenjed among his owji tbllowersthat he was to be dishonoured by the wiekejlives*of those ;who called themselves his dis| ';eiples ; that one man was to prefej; the gaimiof iniquity, anotlwr tjie hiandishments *pleasure, a third the indulgence of malieior|desire, and all of you, at times', the gratified!lion of your favourite passion, to the tendeSlmercies of the God of peace, and the dyinlJove of a crucified liedeemer. While tltf’hour revolved that spread forth all thetjithings before Id* eyes, we need not wondti- tliat lie began tobe in agony, and that 1:sweated as it were great drops of blood.On the cross that agony returned, anwas redoubled. Judge of what he felt lthe expressions of the Prophet in the mytieal psalm, “ My God, my God, why haiji** thou forsaken me, why art thou so IV“ from helping me, and from the words r“ my roaring ? O my God, 1 cry in the da;“ time, but thou hearest not, and in th“ night-season I am not silent- Our fathei“ trustwl in thee : they trusted, and th<“ didst deliver them. But 1 am a worm, ai“ no man ; a reproach of men, and despise“of the people. I am poured out like w- “ter. My heart is melted like wax in tB‘15** midst of rity bo^elsj thott lia^t brmight meI ^ to dtisf'bf (teatlr.^* •This constHuted 'Mittt the ^Ttbient churchcalled the unkn&um Christ'. Inthe blip which-the Fathei’ gave him tb'drink,there a as something sharped than the vine¬gar, and more bitter than the gall.' The-dark¬ness which at that time coyerbd1 tho iaoc ofthe earth, was but a faint emhlent of thathlacker cloud which bS^c^h^med hte soul.\Vhat the degree bf these !unk«o\Vii SOtferingsI was, How they were inflicted, W how they1;/were sustained, we cannot tell. - But’thecomplaint of dereliction, Which the Saviourthen uttered, the sense which aHmature hadII bf its Creator rising iri wiiathv when the earthtremhied, the rocks were rent aSnndbr, andthe grave gave up its dead; testi^ that they| were such as God oidy could kittiet, and tlniSon of God only could sustain*’ >.* .Never was there sorrow'like m#** this sor-row. Wherewith the Lordriow^yhastenCd himin the day of the flerbbne^snfhi^angeb. Up-I mr his agonj-in the garden, awangel#mn hea-V.tn strengthened him. But iii fids; - hour,when he bore the sins of his people/: whenthe pangs of death tobk hold of i whenthe sorrows of h<‘H encompitss^lhrm ;'dri thishour of irmtteraWe wob;4'here thedieaVonly1 i messengers, and where was the cownteuancoot his bather who Used to comfort him, andto smile upon him? Alas J from his Fatherifproceeded those very surfei ings, the severestof all which he was nO\r exia riencing. Fromhim came the cu}> of iremhling^ which hewas now doomed to drink, and the vials .ofVengeance which wetc iiow ]K>ured upon hishead. Abandoned and smitten, and over¬whelmed, he cried out, “ My (Jod, my God !“ why hast thou forsaken me ?”The measure of his woe was now full.The sufferings of Christ were compleated.—Before he bow ed the head ami yielded up theghost, he looked up to the heavens, and sawthe darkness disappearing from before thethrone of God. Filled with celestial satisfac-tjoi), “ Father/’ said he, “ into thy hands,J novv commit my spirit.” There was butone pang more, TLp last do*;d ',7tis vanish¬ing from the sky, and ail was to bo serenetor ever,From such a subject, Christians, what sen¬timents arise in your breasts, and what re¬flections ought we to conclude with ? Howis the condition of our Redeemer now chang¬ed'? From a scene of terror and distress*lieis r?caited to the right Imnd of the Ma-.b<t4y in the heavens. As the sun broke outfrom the eclipse which is then suffered, sotdid the light ofhis Father’s countenance up¬on his soul. Shairie and sorrow, and suffer¬ing, were succeeded by glory, and victory,and triumph.V17What consolation <loos this not yield toChristians in all their afflictions ! The HighPriest under the law was taken from amongmen, that he might have compassion on the-ignorant, and on those that were.out of theway ; for that he himself was also compas¬sed with infirmity. So likewise “we have“ not a High Priest who cannot he touched“ with the feeling of our infirmities, hut was“ in illlipdints tempted like as we are, hut“ without sin. It behoved him to he made“ like unto his brethren, that he might he a> “ merciful and faithful High Priest,in things“ pertaining to 'Cod, to make reconciliation“ tor the sins of the people: for in that he“ himself hath suffered, being tempted, he“ is able to succour tliem tliat are tem^t(v<l.,,1 shall conclude with another reflection.Persons of humane and compassionate feel¬ings, when they hear an account of theirSaviour’s sufferings, are -apt to he movedwith pity tor his distresses, and to be actuat¬ed with indignation against his enemies.—Put these passions, in the present case, mybrethren, are misapplied. “ Weep not forj me, ye daughters of Jerusalem,” said ourLord, when in the midst of bis sufferings—These sufferings were not intended to excitethe sighsorf sensibility, and the tears of distress.Sympathy is not the proper returufor his love.His sufferings are the objects of your faith,and ought to awaken your gratitude. Neither18vont your wrath against the enemaes an<l theenicitiers of' vour Saviour. Look inwards,O man! searrh thirro own bosom; theredwell the muwterers of thy Lord. Thy sins,thy crimes, ihine unhallowed desires anduninortified passions, were the aHorsin thatdreadful seener The Jews and the Romanswere hut instfumtuits in their hands—butthe feeble exeerttiotiert* of that wrath whichthey provoked and drew down ;. On these,therefore', exhaust thy vengeance; Bringf u tli thosceiOsmies of thr Saviour, and slaythem hefoijf his* <*ycs< >t. ;How will it atfeet the mind with contritionand godlv Sorrow* when, on this solemn oc¬clusion,you call op your past sins to your re-'memhranee! How will it grieve you to think,as one by one they pass before you in review,that each of them added a pang to your Sa¬viour’s agony, and formed the bitter ingredi¬ents of that cup whi^b he drank i Will notthis consideration break vour covenant withdeath, and disannul your agreement withhell? Can you ever again cherish thosesins in vour heart, which not onlv crucifiedtiie Lord ofl^iory upon Mount Calvary, butwhich evoti nhw,grimily him afresh, and puthim to<open sham**? . . ' ,Hitt, C'hi’i^tiaus, 1 hope better things ofyou*. On this occasion, let me beseech you,by the sufferings,of youiverueitied Redeemer,to break off your iniquities' by repentance.-*-19solve sincerely, by the grace of Gotl, toill1 no longer in sin. Finally, implore theUtance of the Divine Spirit, to renewxr wills, and parity your souls. Then mayrejoice in this the day of your solemnity,I be welcome guests at the table of theid. Then shall ye be joyfully invited toi marriage-supper of ■fhe* Lamb. ThenII Jesus manitcst himself to you in theakiiig of bread. He shall sav unto yourIs, “ Be of good cheer, thy sins are for-iien theeand inspire into you the wellunded hope of sitting down with him to11 table above,. where, in his presence, yeII rejoice for evermore. Which may Godnt, and to his name be the praise! Let! pray. ^ c-'PRAYER.Son of the Most High! Them art worthytake the book of life, and to open the sealslireof; for by thine agony in the garden,l by thy sufferings' and death upon theitss, thou hast redeemed us unto God byblood. Thou didst tread the wine-press>ne ; thou stainedst thy garments in blood ;in pouredst out thy soul unto death. Butne agony is now over. Thou hast seen' travail of thy soul, and tasted the joy20that was set before thee! Come now fror<thy holy lull, glorious in thine appearel, tnveiling in the greatness of thy strength speaHin<r in righteousness, mightv to save !“ Thou art iiow ast^eniJed on high, and ei|alleil, to the riglit htuid of the Father! Ajgreatness is below thee! The prineipalitiejjof heaven worship thee : the powers of darhness treihhle at thy nod .* the heavens anilthe earth ai'e subject to thy dominion : tho jhast the keys of hell and of death : thou Imslall power over tile visible and invisiWuoiids !“In obedience to thy eornmands, we no’come to shew forth thy death. Bless uure beseech thee, and uianifest thyself to rin the breaking of bread! Lord remembfus when thou art now come to thy kint1do.u : and accept of tlie solemn dedicatiowhich we are here this day to make of om1selves unto thee!“ Our Father which art in Heaven,CONSFC RATI ON' PB AYER. 1fTliis Prayer is pr»mourtct:<i hy ilie Altui-t^r-stsauEngf ^tlie ln-ntl i>t the ( omjiiiine.n-'i :<lile, to w hidi Ire has hoi irieseeiuleti.tieni tlx* i uljiif. Aujl the Addresses to tli('omriinnieauts are all afttT vvanls delivered successively1:this21'• Eteuxat. .Teiiov vh ! Lord of tlie hoa-Ven? and of the earth, God of glory, webend before thy throne. Thy children pro-strate themselves with holy adoration atthy footstool. The heavens are bright withthy glory, The earth is full of thy praise.The great universe is thy temple. Thyi name is Jehovah, who alone hast, of thyself,I being and immortality.“Thou mighest have continued for everalone in the enjoyment of thine own perfee-i (ions, though aiigels and meh had never been.But tp extend life, to ediiununicate happi-i heSS, and to ditfuse joy, thou didst rise fromthy throne, thou raishdst thine arm over theivoid, thou spakest this earth into existaneo,i thou inadest us after thine own image, andhas watched ever ns from the beginningi of time, even nntil this day.When \ye transgressed against thy com-! mandinents. and lost our original innocence,i thy mercy forsook us not. Thou liadst com-Ifpassion upon the offspring of Adam. Thineeye looked with pity; thou didst lay burhelp upoti One who Avas miglity to save.Bim, in the fullness of time, the Ambassa-ii4)r of peace and rceoijciliation, and love,thpu didst send. Our ears have heard theibyful sound ; our eyes have seen the salva¬tion of oiir God. This isaa day of the Sonof Man ! H“ Glory be to God, that peace is pro¬claimed on earth, and good-will to the chil-22Ittlron of men'! Hosanna to the Son of Da- fvi<l! blessed be he w:|u> tnnHjiuthe nanjeof the Highest to save iw ! Halleluiah, HahleJniah, to him that sitteth upon the throneand to the Lamb for ever and .ever! .God of the patriarchs! who saw afar offthis da/which we now commemorate : Godof the prophets! wh° foretold its arrivalGod of the righteous men ! who desired it?approach : God of the evangelists and appostles! who first beheld the day of tinMessiah: God of the martyrs and confesors ! who honoured it with their blood : Gotof our fathers! who within these walls hav<kept it in remembrance : God of our children! who will commemorate it when w«shall sleep in the dust: God of time ! Godoeternity ! descend now, make thyself knownto us, and fill this house with thy glory.“ Father Almighty ! Creator of the work!great parent and preserver of men, whcontrive the mystery of our redenijjdidsttion, which we now come to commemorateSon of the Most High! Redeemer of thworld, Intercessor, Friend, and Patronthe human face, who by thy death upojthe cross, didst accomplish the mystery iour redemption, which we now come 1commemorate; Eternal Spirit ! proeeediifrom the Father and the Son, Authorthe divine life, Comforter of the faithfiInhabitant of the temple of a pure heu23to dost apply to the penitent the benefitsthat redemption whiedr we now come tomuietnorate*—^Father, Son, and Holyarit! God blessed tor ever; he now present;now propitious, and hear the prayers ofi people.“ Thou hast brought us to thy holy^noun-in ; make us joyful in thy house of prayer,e have come to thy temple; may we he¬ld thy glory ; may the beauty of our Godi upon us, and make all thy goodness to*iss before us. Open unto us the foun-|n of life, that we may drink and live. Nowliimmand the blessing, even life for ever¬more.'“May these elements of bread and wine,iftiioh, in the name, and by the authority,I the Lord Jesus Christ, we now set aparti represent his body and blood, convey toe faithful the graces of the new cove-Int. May the bread become the breadt life ; may the fruit of the vine be afore-ipte of that wine which is for ever newfl the kingdom of the Father. Eating ofus bread, and drinking of this cup, maye never after hunger or thirst again. Hear,God, these our humble praises andlayers. May they now ascend before theejith acceptance from this table, upon whiche the emblems of the Lamb sacrificed.r.....Qito tlio throne of the Lamb reigning in glry Nosv, to thg Father, and the Son.and the Holy spirit, be all glory, and liortour, doirtinion and power, time wthoi1vtti -• Aiiichi”■ T* ••[■ ■ ’ 'V > t I