THEIAncient HifloryOF ' ,FRHEE BONNETS.IN FOUR CANTOS.EDINBURGH:Printed in :Lis prtfcnt Year i7o:V OP SC0TUK1iO/fs/Bvjpovi-4THE P E- R SONS,C Father to Joukum,DuNIWH ISTL E, ^ Brlftle> aiuj J3avvfy.,Joukum, in love ivith Rofie.Bristle, a Man cf cLefblutton.Bawsy, a weaker B other*Bard, a Narrator*Beef, Porter to Rofie,Ghaist, the Ghoft of Duniwhiftle,Rosie, an Heirefs.i >v- ■ ••f >:( 3 )TALEOFTHREE B G N NT E T S.CANTO I.BARD.^TI/'lEN men or mettler.houg!it it nonfence,i o heed ttiatcl ping thui< ca’dconicienceAnd by free-thinking liad the knack.Of jeeiing i ka woik it (pake:And a.-* a lea-ned author ipeaks,Impl-y’d it like a p-ir of b'-eak?,lrlo hide the r lewd and Haft flaices,.Wlnlk eith flipt down for bairn thete ufes.IThen Duniwhiftl' worn with years,!Ar.d gawn the gate ot t;ia tor bears,Commanded his Tree Ions to come,!Afld wait upon hi n in his room:Ipide Bnftie iteek the door: and fyne,He thus h -rran Duniwhtjilc. Dear bairns of mine,1 quickly maun fubmit *o fate,And leave you three a good eflate,4 A T A L E O FWhich has i^ecn horc urably won,! ,^rd hnrdeJ down fr^e fue to ion,But clag or clain: for ages paff :Now that my nr prove the laff.Here’s thre pern fFion Bot nets for ye,Which r u G^eai Grtcliers wore before ye.And if ye’d h?e na man bettay ye.Let raerhing ever-v ile them iiae ye;But keep the B< nnets on yonj beads,Ard Itards fr^te figning fonlifli deed,And ye fha!l never want inch things,Sh 1! gar ye be made of b\ kin s :But, if ye ever with them pa tFou ifir ve’ll tor y c ur tolly tntart:Bare headed then ye’ll look i ke tnools.And dwindle down to fitly to< IsHand up your haads now f-vear and fay,As y e fha 1 aniwei on a d^y Ye’ll faithfully obterve niy will,' And a’ its preiri’Iles fuibi.Brjftk. iViy worthy, fa her. I fli ’ll ftrive, ||To keep your nan-e and fatre alive.And revet fhaw a faul tha’s dab uJ,To gar fouk takeine for a ball ad :If e’er by me ye’re oik bey’d,May wiiches'i ightly n n c ride.Jouktm.W hae t. fli ll dart by f-orceor gtiileiiTint Bonnet aft cp heao to,v» le,.For lie a bau Q at ten pi fh-ll uc.And ken i va^ Ingot by youEUe, may l like a g ■ pile v aocer,Ur my daiiy bread tuni panaer.three rohnets. sB'wfy. Mi\ 1 be jyb’d by jrreat ind fma’,An ; kytcb’d like dny tennis ba’.Be the t'ifjrrace of a’ my kin.If e’er I w;tn my bonnet twin.BarJ Nov foon a- eadt had ^i’n his aith,The auid man yielded up bis brei h,Wis row’d in linen white .s intw.And to his fat iers borne awa’.B it fcarcely he in, nofs was rotten,Before his tcft’medt was forgot'*.ci.As ye fhdl hear trae fiuu'-e (onnet,How Joukum fin le ’d wE nis Bonnet,And bought fr^e ten dels Billy Biwfy,His to propine a gimlet iaffy,While worthy driitle not fae doner’d,Pref^rves his Bonnet, and is hoaour’d.Thus Carafim did oraive,Tho’ by the fate of war a fliye ;His body only, tor his mind.No Roman power could break or bind.With Bonnet on he baulcily fpake.His greatntfs gnrt his fetters crack.1 lie vi<R nr did nis Irien ifhio claiin,A.nd lent him w.th new .1 >iies harr.e.But leave vte Biihs and finije.And it) our tale with arduuril e.Beyond the hills where lang the billies,Hid bred upqutvs and kids and fillies,/ nd toughten m^ny a blody b.utle.With tin »ves that came to h t their cattle:rIhere liv’d a lah kept rary-lhnws,And hdievs ay auout her noufe,6 ATALEOFWha at her table fed and ranted,Whh the {font ale (lie never wanted.S >e was a winlome wench and waly,And could put on her claiths fu’ brawly^Kumble to ilka market-town,And drink and fight like a dragoon:Juft fic like her wha far sff wander’d,1 o get herfelf wetl Alexander’d.ho lie had a word of mcikle filler,Whilk brought a hantle o’ wooers till her.Amang the reft young mafter Jouk,Mie corquer d ae day wi’ a look :F'ae that time forth he ne'er could Hay,At hame to mind his corn or h^y,But grew a beau, and did adronU rnfelf with fifty bows of corn,Jrorby what he took on, to riggHim out with linen, (boon and wig,Snuff-boxes, fword knots, canes and wadies.And fweeties to bellow on laffes.Con’d neweft aiths gen eely fwear,And had a courle of flaws perquire :He drank and danc'd, and figh’d to move,fair Kcfte to accept his loveA fer diimb figns he thus began,An"1 fpake his mind to’er like a man.O take me Rofie to your arms,And let me revel o’er your charms;If ye fay na, 1 ceedna care,For «ipes or tethers made of hair.Pen knives or pools I miuna need,That minute ye fay na, I’m dear!,THREE BONNETS. 7O let me lie witfnn your bread :A rl at your dainty tazle feaft:We ll do I like your rood to finger,A 3d fit to her y our ft rs Si iger.While on thus lun fide o’ rh: brae,Belongs to you, my 1 mbs I il layR fie. I m n. fweet Sif. ye woo me frankly,B .t a’ your courtfh p f<r^ fae ran ly,G‘ elfifii intereft, th-t I’m dead,Ivly perlbn leaft empi • s your head.Jouk'iun What ad-fi.Iockt-on’sthis yourm^k-■When your poor lover’s heart is b:caking;(iagWiith hide logic I can Ihew,T’hat every thing you h V; is you :Befides the beauties ot yov-r perfon,*1 hefe beds ot Ft >wer-< you let your a- e on,Aour eta 1 As your lends, tod tying pelf,Are every ane r our very itlf,A uf add vrdh lufture to thefe grac^",With w ich adorn’d your faul and face is.Rofie \e feern to hate a loving flimeFt me. ai d hate your native hame;rliat gars me ergh to truft you meikle,For fear you fhott’d pove falfe and fickle.Joukum. I troth my rugged billy Biiftle,Abou lus-geiitrie makes fie iiftie,Tua if a body contradict hnnf e s r eady with a du k to flick him ;Tnat werrirs nre trf h me I vow,A' il fain wou'd five and die with you.Bard Uborving j >uk a wee tate tipfr, ’Smirking reply’d the paaky gipfy.8 A TALE OFKofe, I wan be veiy wrae to fee,3V!y lever trtk the pet and die;V- herefore I am inclin’d to ea e ye,And do what in me lies to p!e >le yc tBut firft ere we conclude the pa$b n,.You trufi perform foine gallant aftionrTo prove the tiuth of v.hat you’v faid,Eife, for you, fha I die a maidJoukum. My dearell jewel g<e t a name,That I may win both you and fame :fchall I g’e fight with ford! budsC 'r cleave down troops with thicker fkulls.Or Ihah I dottk the deepdt fea.And cofai pou for beads to thee?Ten-ty the Pope upon the nofe,Or p-- upon a hundred beaus ?Rojie In troth dear lad, I wad be laith.To rifk your life' or do you fkaith,Only employ your canny fkill,To gain and rite your father s will.With the con lent of Hrifs and BawiyyAnd I fliall iu my bofom hawfe ye,Soon as the fatal Bonnets th<ee,Are t^’en Irae them and gien to me.Joukum. Which to prefeivei gied myakhjBut now the caufe is life and death,I mull, or with the Bonnet pact.Or twin with yon and break my heart :Sae, tho’ the aith we took waa awin’,To keep it now appear.-, unlawfu,Toen love. I’ll anfwer thy demands,Aad fly to fetch the ay to your bands.THREE BONNETS. 9Bard. T he famous jilt of PaleilineThus drew the hooks o’er Samfon’s een,And gart him tell where lay his ftrengtb,Of which (he twin’d him at the length,Then gied him up in chains to rave,And labour like a ga'ey Have :But Rofie, mind, when growing hair,His lofs of p:th ’gan to repair.He made cf thoufaads an example,By cruihing them beneath their temple.Bard.And, cracking at the w.ftlin gavels.The wives fat becking of their navel's,i When Jouk his brither Bridle found,; Fetching his ev’ning wank around! A fcore of ploughmen cf his ain,I Who blythly whittled on the plain.( Jouk three times congee’d, Brittle anes,(Then (hook hand, and thus begins.BrijQk. Wow, brither J mk, where hae yeI force can trow my looking een (been?i 1 e’regrown He braw: now weird’s defendtneGin that l had nae mailt mittwnd ye,' And where gat ye that braw biue T1 ringing.CANTO II.10 A T A L E O FYe look as fpiufh as one that's wooing,I feriy, lad, what ye’ve been doing.Joukum. My very rmxh refpecl blither, ,Should we hide ought ti ae ane anithir,A';d not, v. hen warm’d \s i h the fame blooeConfult ilk ane anither’s good ;And be it kend tv’e, my defigo.Will profit prove to me and mine.Erijlli. Wd brother, troth it n uen comrreno.Ycur virtue, thus to love your wieids,I makes me hlyth, for aft I faid, *\e were a clever meul’d lad.Joukum And Ee I h‘ j e Mil! ever j?rov«fiIt ve befriend me in niy love :For R 'fie bonny’-, lich and g ty,And fw et as flowers in June or May,Her gear 111 gr f, her fweess I'll rifle,If ye’li bat y.eld me up a uiSe.Promi e to do’t, and ye’fe be free,With ony thing periaius m me.Erijlle. I lang to anf er yotu demand,And ne er fh ill for tiift's fland.'Jcukum Taen Ihe oefi es as a propine,Tf eie Bonnets, bawfy’s, yoursand mine ;Aid well I uat thath n.ie great matter,it I fae eatily can get her,Brijlle Hi, ha! ye jtuus, are ye theit?Tue D -- then nor fhe neer get mair.Is that the irifl? ihat ye poke ofWin thick \ e> hr, ye m k a mock of ?Ye li ly manlworn tcart of grace;Swith let me never fee yoiu lace.THREE BONNETS, uEeek my auld Bonnet afF my head !Faith that’s a bonny ane indeed!Require a thing I’ll part with never;She’s get as foon a lap o’ my liver.Vile whoie and jade, the woody hang h^r.Bard. Thu' faid.he laid, nae mair tor anger,But curs’d and tun'd, and was nae far,Frae trading Jouk amang the glar.While jook wit!i language glib as ooUe,Righi pawkily kept afr a too ie,Well maiked with a wedder’s fkin,Although he w s a tod within.He hum d and ha’d, and whh a cant,Held forth, as he had been a 1’iint,And quoted texts to prove we’d better.Part with a fma’ for a greater.Joakum. Ah! blither, may the furies rack meif l mem’d ill, but ye millak me $But gin your Bonnet’s fie a jewel,Pray gie’t or keep it, fir, as you will,Since your auld fafhion’d fancy rather,Inclines till’t than a hat and feather ;But I’ll go try my brither Bawfy,Poor man, he’s nae fae daft and fancy.With empty pride to ciook his mou.And hinder his ain good like you ;If he and 1 agree, ne’er doubt ye,We’ll make the bargain up without ye ;Syne your braw Bonnet and your noddleWill hardly batth be worth a bodie.Bard. \t this bauld Bridle’s colour chang’d,He I wore on Rofe to be reveng’d.12 A T A I, E O FFor he began now to he fiied,She’d wile the honours fiae his head,S) ne with a flern and canker’d !o 5k,lie thus reprov’d '.is brother Jauk.Brijtle. hou vile diigraceot our forbears,Wba iang with valiant oint of weirs.Maintain d their right ’g inft a’ imrulionsOf cur auld faes the Rofycrucians,licit thou d.fign a lait to catchUs in a girn with this b?fe match.And for the handing up thy pnde,Upon thy brither's riggins ride :Fii fee you hang’d, at d her the gither,As high as Haman m a tether.Etc 1 with my ais Bonnet quat,For any bam w’.' beaver har,Whilk 1, as Hofie takes the fikees,Maun wear or ..o jutt as flie like :Then let me hear nae nvair about her.For if \e date agwn to mutter,bic vile propofal in my heating,\e need nae tt uU to my forbe.ringFor fbon my beard will tak a low.And 1 fhall crack your crazy pow.Bard. Hus laid, brave Brittle laid naeraair.Dm cock’d his Bonnet with an airA, heel’d jound wit h gloomy brows & muddy*Aud left his brkhd in a fluddy.THREE BONNETS. 13V£3-> <*£>»CANTO IIT.^lard. O W Sol wi’ his tang whip gae cracksUpon his neighering confers backs,’o gar them tik th’ Ulympian Brae,yi* a cart la e of bleezing day ;?ne country hind ceafes to fnore,5 ngs (red his bed, unlocks the door,Jin bladder rooms, and gieS a ri t,Kii^n tentily fu: veys the lift,v.nd, weary of his wife and fla’s,fo their mibr-.ce prefers h’s eiaes.catce had trie lark fcrf.iok her neft,Vh in J us, wha had got li'tie reit,’or tbiiik.1 g on his plot and 1 dlie.Jot up to gmg and deal wt’ B i>vfie :Lwjy fait o’er the bent he gade. *^.nd fand him doz ng on bl^ bed,iis blackets. creithy, foul his lark,iis cuttihis trim d with Ipo etta wark ;oot oraps hang trae h s roor and ktppies,Iis floor was o‘ tobacco fpittles :'et on the antlers ot a ceer,lang moil) an auid claymore and fpear,Aith coat 1 iron and target trufty,nen thick of dirt and unco fully :though appear d to thow his B hy,IT ;at he ua< lazy, poor and liliy,knd wadi a muk fo great bullle,Itcut his Bonnet at did liiittle.14 A T A L E O FJouk three times rugged at his (boulder,A" Ungrun, Bawfy rak‘d bis een.And cries, What‘s tba;? What do yoa me*.Then looking up he fees his brither.Bawfy. Good-morrow Jouk, what briiYoure e arly up, —as i‘m a tinner (you hit!I feeoly rife before my dinner:Weil, what‘s ye‘r news, and how gaes a‘f|Ye've teen an ucno time awa‘.Jovkum. Bawfy, I m blyth to fee you W:For me, thabk God, I keep me heal:Get up, get up, ye lazy mart,I have a fecret to hnpait,Of hich. wneo I give yon an inkling.It will fet bait yon. lugs a tinkling.Ba d Straight B v-Ty rifcs. qu ckly drt;White hatte his youky mind iuipreflss :Now rigg'd. a;.d morning drink broughtT rus dip 11 e-gabtet j- uk begin.joukum My worthy bruher, well I waO er fe kl Is is y ur wee eifate,F vr lie a me.k e haul yours,T at to things greater higher towers;B it ye ly loitering heie at hame,Ne>leiVu4 baith ot wealth and aanie,Tao-, as I faid, ye have a mind,Tir at i> for higher things defiguM.Bawfy. That very true, thanks to the fk*But ih.'w to uet them there it lies.Joukum. dll tell ye Baws,--1 ve laid a pTnat only war t your caking vote.THREE BONNETS.And if )e‘li g:e‘t your bicai is tx'kcn ;i fiut firft accept of this love-taken ;Here tak this gowd and never want.Enough to gar you drink and rant;! And this is but an aile penny,I To what I afterward defign ve ;And in return I’m fure that I,iShall naithing fe.k that ye‘l! deny.^w/y.ArdirothnowJouk, andneithcr will I.Or after never cv me Bdly ;If I relufe, wae light upon me,}Thi^ gowd, O vow! ‘us wonder tv nny.Joukum. Ay, that it is ‘tis e‘n tne a‘ITo.at gars the ph ugh ot living draw,‘Ti« Gowd grrs l<)gers height the fie:cer,iXV>t tout i‘ preaching w-d ce icarcer ;lT>s gowd that makes the g'eat men witty,] A id puggy iaffes fair and pretty \sWi heut it ladies rice wad dwindle,/Down to a wife that fnoves a fpindle.* But to the.point, aj^d wave Digrduoo,I make a free and plain con fe ill n,|Tiittt l‘m in ove, and .iS i (aid,I) m nd fr ni you a little aid,ITo* gun a bride that eithly can,' Make me fou, bail and you a naan :IGive ti e your B >r;net to prelent‘My miftrefs with, ■ and your confent,IT ' rive the D ot and fafliion’d deed,Thar bids ye wear it on you head.Bauyyaigoihl O gofh! then junk have at her.Hi that De a‘ ‘tis nae great matter.I* A T A L E O Fyoukum. Thefegranted (lie demands naemai.To Jet us in her riches (hair ;Nor (hal! our herds as heretofore,Rln afF with ane auither‘s ftore.Nor ding out ane anither;s hams.When they forgather‘mang the kairns ;But freely may drive up and down.And fell in iika market down,B:longs to her,-—which fern you il fee,If ye*li be wile, belong to me :And when that happy day fhal! come.My h on eft B. why, tfu res rny thumb.That while 1 breathe i 11 ne er beguile ye,Y, Te b;irh g:t gow d, and be a Wiley.hau'y. Faiih {ouk, 1 lee but Utile Ikaith1- Ditasjn ofa en eiefs aiih,Tnat is impos d by doited dads,(To pleafe their w ims) on thoughtlrfs ladsMy B nmt! welcore to my Brune iAn. m ik e good may ye mak on it,Our fatlier-s Wiil H’e make nae din,T io‘ Rofie fl-ould apply‘t behin;B 11 fay, does Billy B idle ken,Tnis your d fign to mak us men ? . .youkum. Ay, that he does, but the fl fFaisB^a s a heart-hatied to tt e lafs.And rattles cut a hantle (lories,O blood'and dirt an ! ancient glories,Meaning fmij feuds that u?‘d to be,Betw-. eo ours and her family ;Bans like a blockhead that hedl ne'er,Tv. in with his Bonnet for a-her Gear;THREE BONNETS. 17B it you and I conjoin d c n d'n g him,-[An*1- by a vote, to rtafoo bring mm ;I i he ft m l clofe, ‘tis unco eith,T rive the tell merit ipite o-s teeth.And :ar him plv, for a his clivers,T ’ lift his B nnec to our B avers.Baufy T ien letthe doof deiighr in drudgingiWha' ciufe have we to ten his grudging j'T 10 U fy‘s fed on the fell.I vnu ano I he well 0111 fellsBird Tnus J !ck and B vfy were agreed,iA m Brif. man yield, it was decreed.Tnu. far I've lung in H ghlmd drains,lOf Jouk s armour and pa^ky pains,Ta gain his end with ilka brither,:Sae oppofite to ane anither ;lOf B iiUe-s hardy refblution,A id hatted to the Rofycrucians;IfJt Biwfy% nut in flavery neck-tad.oei ing his Bonnet for a breakfaif,^Vdiat follows on‘t, of gaiu or fir nth.Hi tell when we hae ta‘en our bieath.* ■ S •«CANT O IV.Bard. V 7 OW ibon as e‘er the Will w?. torn,1.^1 JoukwithtwaBonnets on the morn,Frae fairyland faff bang'd away,f’he prize at Rofy*s feet to lay ;p ha fleely when he did appear,-lour his (ucccfs !gan t.i fpear.Jovkujn. Here bonuy lafo your humble fl ivePiCtints you with the thiugs you cr^ve.iR A T A L E O FThe-r'Vf’n Wi I and B nnets twa.Which mai-e? the third wrrth nought avalOur power f.i en up, now I denund,Yonr promis* i love, and eke your hand.' Bard. Rohe tmihd to lee the lad outwittedA d B nneds to the fl mes committed,I ^mediately an awfu% {bxmd,A<! are ^ad thought ri frae the ground IAnd fyne appear'd a ii. 1 ■ rt Ghaifl,Vv hafe Rei n and angry io ks amaiftUnhool’d their fauis,— fhaking they faw.Him Irae the R e the Bonnets draw ;T hen ca r,e to Jouk. and with twa drugs,Ena eas’d the length oi baith hts lugs,And laid Gbaijl. Re a' thy days an afs,And kackoey to t!iis cunn.ng lafs:But for thete Bonttets i’l! prelerve them,For h-iirns unborn that wi 1 deferve them,JEttA Wun t ’«t he vandh d trae ther eeiiAnd le.t por J uk wi* brocks not clean.Be (hakes, whin. R lie rants and capos.And ca’s the viflou nrughf but vapours:.Rubs e'er his che ks and gab wi’ ream,1 ill hr believes’t to be a dream :Syne to tne cu fet leads the ’A’a.y,To U up him up with ufejatbae.Rofie. Now, homo lati, ye may be free.To tiardie ought pertains to me; - iAnd rre the fun 'hough he be dry.Has driven do^n t e wefthn Iky,To dii<.k his waiiieiu1 of the fea.\THREE BONETS. 19here’s he but ane of you and me.i marriage ye fhall hae my hand ;ut l maun hae the foie command,1 fairyland to faw and p'^n^,|nd to fend tliere for ought l want.I Bjrd. Ay, ay, cries Jouk, all in a fire.In i fiilEning into ftrong defireI youkum. Cc me halfe thee, let ns fign and feal)nd let my billies gae to the drel.\Bard Here ir wad make o‘er lang a tale,0 tell hovr meikle cakes and ale, *,r.d beef and broe, and gryce and gecfe,nd pies a* running o‘er wr creefh,/as fcrv‘d upon the wedding-table,o mak the lads and laffes able,0 do, ye ken, what we think (hame,rho‘ ilka ace doiS‘c; to gie‘t a name.1But true it is, they foon were buckl d,nd foon {he made poor Jouk a cuckold,nd play‘1 her bawdy fports before him'ith cheils that card not tippence tor him,lefides a Rofycrucian trick,ae had a dealing with Auld Nick;ud, whene*er Jouk be„>n to gru iible,ild Nick in the mift room wad rumble.:ie drank, and fought, and {pent her gear,lith r’icr, and Idling o‘ the mare,iius living ike a Pclzbs ger,l.e ran her eil (as deep inlirce pa d the int‘reft of her bands.20 TALE OFav ca‘d wit beiiind the hand,Tiie d ffing of his rfoin s f nd ;0 tr ia e he row began to lee,The ru n o* h s family :Bu paft relief laird in a midden,lie s now ohIig‘d to do her bidden.Aa'-aj with ff i<ff command hes ientrT > hair\land to lift the rent.A ;d with him many a Catterp;llar,To rug frae Brifs and Bjwfy u ler ;For h r braid table rrann be lervM,T* o‘ Fairy-fo'-jik fhtxi‘d a‘ be ilaiv’d.J uk, thus iurrour del with his guard?,Fow plunders hay if cks. barns, and yanThey orive the nowt frae BiilHe's fauid,Vs bile he can nought but ban and fcald.B'ijile Vile flave to a hufT-y id begotUBy many dsds, with claps ha: rotten,We rt na for honour of my inither,1 fhotrd na think ye were my brither.Jouk Dear brither, wh> this rude refletLe. rn to be greatfu* for prottdlion jT e Betereueans, bloody beads,Toaf gar {■ uk lik toe dowps of priefts,Tile on a b andec, lik.-. a haddock,B. broolied, f pro wing like a paddock,T iefb n on hers, lai g cr now had come,\v ivh faggots, 'i z. and fuck o‘ drum.Awl twin'd you of your w^a th and hves;byue. wothout ; peer in  your wives,11 id no the K.of; crucian flood,T ie bulwark of your rights and blood -7ITHREE BONNETS. 21n ! )et fcrlooth %e girn and guitnnic,in with a gab unthanfu* mumbleit u any a black nnworthy curie,her Rslie bids ye dr.iv/ \our puife;|he- flij s fae gen‘ro? fl o n.ent,jif r ti ■ r-oon thiity per cent.' Biijilc Dun you and her tho* now I m biasX) h petu yer to fee the day,1 g r ye bti h repe t that e er,: ieavtd by torce away my gear,ithout, or thanks c-r making price,I (ver Ipeerin-? my advice.tfoukum. P<-2ce gc uk, we naething do ata%at by the letter ot 'he la v :lien nae m ir with you: din tormet.t us,ling uk atie non tempos tnentis,ite Kofieiffus may a win,tye ye up baith hana an.' fi ,nd dun eon ye but me .t ot di inkjjl \e be ■ aivd. a ;d die in limk'Bard T us J i k ti.o B itt e when they met|uh Uv tuiw id. uage ithcr ti cat.jft fury g wo m B (iie-s veinsyji,d the* ho B -m. l he retainsj:t on ho ct'.n tie mat not cock it,1 t in a coftei dole n aun lock 11.ue headed, tim^ he 1 eu knocks untier,io lets then, enve away <11 plunder,jfe h. ve l ieet., beiide. a ttiW1!';at ki g ot bines obhg*d tt; c ur;a. , Oi. his ro: ai|'.au c..es th; ie,idwatl to piuD him with a puk!rs 2 ATALEOFWhile he wad fluw his fangs and rage.With bootlefs brangling in his cage. 'Now follows that we take a peep,Of B iwfv looking hke a fhcep,By Bnftle ha'ed and difpis^,By Jouk and Rofie as little pris‘d.Soon as the horfe had he>rd bis brithe;Joukum and Refe were prick‘d the githelAway they fcour O’er bight and how.For fidging tain what’eei be dow,Counting what things he n >w did rnifterThat wad be gi'en him by his filler.Like (hallow bards wha thi k they fiec,B caufe they live fax Holies high.To lome poor iiteleis lucubration,Pei fixes fleeching dedication,A d blythly dream they‘li be reflor'd.To ale-houie credit by my lord.Thus Biwty s mind in plenty row‘d,While he thought on his promis-d gowd.And baiteylhip, which he with fines,Wad mak like the Wetl-lndia mines.Arrives, with future gieatnefs dizzy,Ca‘s, Where's Me 1 Jouk ?Beef. --Meft Jouk is bify.Bawfy. My Lady Rofie, is (he at leifure ■Bee). No, Sir, my Lady's at hei p eaiurtBaufy 1 wait tor her, or him. go IhewBeef. And pray ye, Mailer, wrha are youiBawfy. Upo’ my laul this porter's fawiySirrah, go teh my name is Bawfy,THREE BONNETS. 23if briiher who made up the rnair»ageBeef and fo 1 thou ,ht it bv your carriage,etvveen your houghs gae dap voui g iding,with hame and teail upon a fpelding,or there’s nae mm beneath this roof,entertain a lim pie coof,he like of ou. that nain can fruft,iVha to your aih h ve been u juft,1 Bard. This laid, he dadded to tne yate,imd iett poor Bav fy in a fret,'a loud growl’d, and made a din,uiat was o’erheard by a’ wit h n.,uoth Hole to J ok, Come le’s away,uio fee what’s yon makes a’ this fray,f they went, and law the creature,ur rumding ilka filly feature,f his dull ph z with guns and glooms,tamping and buing at is thumos.hey tented him a little while,hen came dud n hull with a fmile,jfhich lu m gar 1 him lorget tue torture,fas rabid within him bv the porter.:e wid a lucking weaui yell,ut fluke a ra.tle or a bell,: bauds its t .ngue Let that alane,to its yameri :g fa’s auiu :dt up a fmg, and ft aight its feen,3 Lu^h with tears into its een.{•us eithL auger’d, eithly pleas’d,tfeak Bawly lang they tantaliez'd,fuh prom les right wide expended,ic ne’er perform’d ,nor ne’er intended :w> !•'24 A TALE OF, &c.Rut row and then when they did need hiaA Topper and a pint they gied birr’.That done, they hte tue mir to (ay.And fcarceiy ken hint the neift day.R-'or fallow, now this mony a year.Wish iome faint hope, and rou^h of fear.He had been wreftiing witlt his fa e,A drudge to Jouknm and his mate;While Brillle laves-his manly look,Regardiefs baith of Rote and Jouk ;.Maintain? right qneitly ’yoo'd the cairns,Ilis honour, coidcience, w 'e and bairns,jouk and his ru ne-gary wife,D ive on a drunken gaming life,’Caufe Coder tin*y can get no reft,For Nick and Du tiwhiftle’s ghaift,Wha iii the ga ress often tody,.And 'fh.Ore the:n with a b-ood . gully,xnus have 1 lung in ha wet rh, me,..fang that fcort s the teeth of time,“t modeftiy l hide my na-ne,Admirihg virtue niair than fame.But tent ye wha defpile in ft ruction, ,And give my wark a wrong co iftruction.Frae ‘hind my curtain, rr.inrd 1 teil ye,J‘li Ihooi a fa fire thro’ your be!U ;But wha with hayins iees his Bomit.And fays, tnanks ty'c for yon Sonnet,\e fhnma want the praifes due,to ga.erofFy". A -ieu.FINIS.