COMICAL SAYINGS;>ADY — CORK;j With bit COAT BUTTON CD BEHIND.I ll' *eifg an Elegant Conference betwixtEnglish TOM and Iris,h TEAGUE;IN TilRKfe TARTS.‘ With P ADY’s bumble Petition, orSupplication, and a Creed .for Ro-mifh Believers.* t ' ■ "D U S B Rlift’d for add Sold uy G. MILLER at wviofe SI op may '><•, a variety of Small Hiftoncs, Sctmop^dcc. C*ttci$f ><#)ballads Crv'dvtns Eookf Xrud Piicturt;i.• tfhQLZrSM'E art Pir.\ i. 'Comical SAYINGS of PADDY from CORIiPAR T- l.Tom./^ OOD morrow. Sir, this is a very cold ovJf rI“ag- Ana dear honey? yefternighta very cold morning.Tom. Well brother traveller, of what nationthou.Peag. Am dear (lioy, I came from mykingdom,Tom. Why hr, I know that but where iskingdom,Teag. Alleiieu dear honey, don’t you knew Cin Ireland.. Tom. O you fool, Cork is not a kingdom Icitjh. .Teag. Then deat (ha?y, l am fure it is in akcom.Tom. And what was tne reafoji you have c.and left your own de^r countrvi’Teag. Arra dear honey, by ihaint Patrick, i,have got f'ucit comical laws in our countr ", |they’ll put a man to death ii; pefreff health; f|be fret and plain witJ^you, neighbour, 1 was otrd <0 come away,^pMWiid net chooleto ftay anfrich people thal^Bn nang a poor man whenplea•>, if he eufttr^W^s, robs, or kills a manTom. Ay, but I taI.^cu.to be more of an hejman, than to Ileal rob, or kill a man.Teag. Honeft, I am perfectly honed, when Ibut a child, my mother would have trailed mea houfe full of miln-ftones.Tcm. What was the matter, was you guilnothing.Teag. Arra dear honey, I did harm to nobbut fancied an old gentleman’s gun, and afterwmade it ray own. * ,|Tcm. Very well boy, and did youjkesp it fAt. JSSSM&S. ^iVS^S AS. 7 /:n •; • y:/ .5 ’ 5' r • j ^Tt’ag. K-e^i it, I would tiavc kept it wi*h all m«'eart wlule i lived, death irfclf could not have part-1 us, but the old ro^ue, the gentleman, being ai ftice of the peace himiclf, had ir.c tried for the'aht» of it, and how I came by it, and In tooi it'-,i»ain.I Tom. And how did you clear yourfelf withoutipniflimem?lilTez'r. Arra dear flioy, I told them a parcel of,j;s, but they would not believe me; ior i laid thati igot it from my father when it was a little piiiol,lid 1 had beep'd it .till it dad nrfcwn a gun, aud wasJ irfigned to ufe it well, until It had growu a b.g : an~.an, aud then fo d it to the .military. They all: 11 a laughing at men:', I had been a fool,and hadeI e go home tp my mother and clean the potatoes.' Tom. Asui'how long is it lines you left your own-; mntry. ,1 Teag. Arra dear honey, I do not mind whetherJj|be a fortnight or four months, but I'think myfelf|| is a long t me; they tell me my another is deadIce, but 1 won’t believe it, until I get a letter fromr own.hand, -o: fhe iva very good fcholar, lap-fe {he can neither read nor write.-Tom. Was yob .< r in England before.Teag. Ay that i was, and in bcotland too.Tom. And Were they kind to you wheu yoti watScotlanu;"Teag. They were that kind that they kickt myfe for me, and the rmfon was, becaufe I would,pt pay the whole of the liquor that *vas drank i» ruejpmpany, tho* the landlord and his two ions got• aouc' ful about of it; they would have me pay itjl, though 1 did not drink it all and I told them itHas a trick upon travellers firft to drink his liquor,;id then to kick him out of doors.;| Tom. I really think they ui’ed you badly, butjatld you not beat tV m. .KK!4 The Comical Sa ivgiTea?. That’s what 1 did,. bu.: them a'l to tbown contentment; but there *as one of them ttrorijcrthan me, \sho wcuiti have killed me, it the othitwo had not pulled me away, and I had to runit.liH his paffion was ove; ? then they made us drinand gree again; we thot-k hands, and made a ba.uam never to harm other more; bn. this bargadid not lath long, for, as 1 was killing his momby Qxairst Patrick 1 bit his note, which caulod hdto beat me very fore for nvy pains.Tom. Well Pady what calling vvas you when5 otland.Teag. Why Sir, I was no bufnefs at all, but uhljdo you call that green tree that’s like a whin bii[:|'many people makes a thing to t’weep the hcufe ofijlTom. Oyes Pady they cal! it a broom.Teag. Ay, ay, you have it, then f was a gentUmans broom, only waited on his horjits, and watinjthe diibcs tor the cook; and when my matter rofca hunting, 1 ran behind him like the dogs, •Tom. O yes, Pady, it was a groom you meallbut 1 fancy you was cock’s mate, or kiuhen boy. |Teag. No, no, it wa^ke broom that I was, ailif I had (tayed there till row,*I mi; iit have bo Iadvanced as high as my mailer, for the ladies lov|me lb well that they laughed at me.font. They might admire you for a fool.Teap. What fir, do you imagine that 1 am notffool, no, no, my anafter fbked countcl of me in |jhis matters and 1 always gave him a reafon for eve[|thine; 1 tolb him one morning that he v.enftoo loon to the hunting that the hares were igot out of their beds; and neither the barking IPoms nor the blowing of dogs could make the!life, it was fuch a cold morning that night, £b thuran awav tnat wecatched, when we did not fee the; 1i hen my mailer told my w^rds to feveral genajmen who were at dinner with him, and they sOf Padj from Cork. 5ired me - for want of uiidom, faying, I was cer-: ainiy a roan of great judgment, for- my head wasi ]1 of a lump, added, they were going a liihing a-j'jjng with my mafttr and me in the artertioon; butMtnid them that it was a very.unhappy thing formy man to go a buntin" in the morning and a filli¬ng in the afternoon-: et they w.^uid try it "out tlieyil:ud better ftaid at home, for it carytc on a molt ti r-|ihle night ef iouth weft rain, and even down wind;■ ibthe iithes got ail belcv.' the water to keep them dry: om the ihower, and we catch’t them all but got: lone of them.y Tom- and how long did you ferve that gentle¬man, Fatly.Teag. Arra dear honey, I was with him fix weeks•11 id he beat me feven times.Tom. For what did he beat you? was it for your1 adnefsand foplifly tricks?jl Teag. Dear fhoy, it was net, hut for being too, qijiGtive and going fharpty about bufinefs. Firfl,It lent me to. the poft office, to enquire if there;as any letters for him; fo when I came there, laid-ff I is there any letters here for my nvafter to day?iiihen they a(k*d me w'hc was my mafler, f;r,faid I,ii»very bad manrrers in you to alk anygentleman stame. At this they laughed mocking me, and laidiriey could gite iwe none, if l would not tell myHalter’s name, lo 1 returned to my mailer, and tofyl|»e impudence of the fclloy*1, how he would give|e no letters unlefs i would tell him yOur name,ri' I after, My mailer at this flew in a great pillion,< kd kick’t me down Hairs', faying, Go \cu rogue,id tell my name directly, fcow can the gentlemanve letters, when he knows not who is a Iking forcm. Then I returned and told my mallei’s name,they told me the/e was on'e for him, '.looked atbeing but very fmall, and alked the price of it,.,;ijf|tey told me it was lixpence, Gxpcn.c, faid I, will*6 TJie Cirri'cal Sa\ings■you take ilxpmce for that fmaJl thing, and fe’fm_bigger ones for twopence, faith.] am not inch a biMrfool; you think to cheat rr e, notv^ this is not a con* Ifcionabie way of dealing, ]’]1 acquaint rry mafttr oiit fo I came and ‘-r id my mafter as they uou'idhave fivpmce for his letter,.and was ieiling biggttitme$ for twopence, he took up my head and broke!his qane with it, csiiing me a thoufand foo!s, fay.tng, the man was more juft than to take any tliind-but the right for it; but I uas fure there w£s noneof the right buying and felling fuch dear penny-worths; fo f came again for my dear fixpence letterand as the fellow was fhuffHng thro’ a parcel orthem, feeking fer it again, to make the bed of '|j'dear market, f pick’t up tw'o, and home [ comes t.my tnafier, tijink’mg he would be well pieafed■what I bad done, now laid 1, mailer, I think l htvput a trick 6n them ft Hows, for felling the letterfo dear to you. What have you done? laid hefa id I, I’-e only taken two other letters, here’s cm-for you, maflcr. to help your dear pennyworthand I’ll fend the other to my mother to fee whethcfile be dead or alive, for file’s always angry whendon’t write to her, I had not the word well fpokertill he got up his flick and beat me heartily for iand lent me back to the fellows again with the tw«i had very ill will to go, hut nobody would buthem of me by the way. „Tom. A well, Pady, I think you was to Mam-and your mailer too, for he ought to have tauglyou how to have gone about thofe affairs and n>brat you fo.Teag. Arpa dear honey, I had too much witmy own to be tcached by him, or any body elfe, 1:||bei-an to inilruct me after th.it, how [ (lioulti fer3ijt he table, and fucb nafly things as thofe; one niglT rook ben a routed hfn in one hand, and apiecebread in the other} the old gentleman was io lautlftiOf Pady from Cork. _ 7'| e would not take it, and told me, I Ihould hrlng:m nothing without a trencher below it; the lamet ight as he was going to bed, he called lor his flip-:rs and a pi'h pot, io [ clapt iria trencher below tV.e• !lh-pot, and another below tl^e flippers, nnd b^nfijgoes, one in every hand: no founer did I enterjikroom, then he threw the piJhpot at ir.e which>'ioke both my head and the pilli-pot at one blowc, faid 1, the devil is in my matter altogether, forat he commands at one time, he contermands ',c'•nothe'r. Next day 1 went with him to the marketbuy a fack of potatoes, I went to the potatoe-’ iongtr, and atked what he took fot the full of ajptch cog, he weighed them in, he afked no lefsnan fourpence, fburpence laid I, if I were But iniablin, I ccuid got the full of that for nothing.Id in Cork and Kinfale far cheaper, them is buttall things like peafe, faid I, but the potatoes iny country, are as big as your head, fine meat a!lade up in blcfled moothfou’sj the potatoe mer-jlarg called me a iiar, and my mailer caliecf'mft aJiol, fo the one ftll a kicking me, and the other aJffting me,'l was ;n fuch bad br<,ad between them,pt l called myfelf both a liar and a fool to get of}ill ye.Tom. And how did you carry your potatoes home!iom the market?Teag. Arra, dear fhoy, T carried the horfe andiji em both, bclides a big loaf and two bottles ofne; for I put r'.a horle on my bac1--, and drov ;e potatoes before me, and when 1 tied the load,tiie loaf, l had nothing ado but carry the bottlesmy hand, but bad luck to the w..y as [ earnsme, for a nail out of the heel of my foot fprungleak, i- my brog, which pricked tb; very bone,•uii’ed the Ik in, and made my brog itfelt.to blood;id I haring no hammer by me, but a hatchet [;ft at home, I had to beat down the nail with theViT+itta: C>,iiy!^rrottofe tef tbe bottle; and by the hook, dear'flif 1it broke to .piece?, and feattcrej the wine in tr Jmouth.•Torr. Anti how did ;ou recompense y'our maflj .for the lofs cf ^cur bottle of wine?" Teag. Ar*a-dear flioy; I had a mind to cheat hi Land myfelf too, for I took the bottle away tc 1Hackfmith, and defjred him to roend it, that I mig tjRo to the butchers and get it full of bloody vvatjfrfent he taltl me he could not work in any thing ajeDot! and iron. Arra, laid 1, if 1 w< re in my om|kingdom, I could get & blackin.it I', who could tna la bottle.out of a ftone, and s done out of nothin |Tom. And how did you trick your matter c]of it?iTeag. Why, the old rogue began to chide t|afking me what way I broke it, then I held up t'jjether aa high as ijny head, and let it fall to tflground on a ttone which broke it all to pieces likflwife;: now, faid I, matter, that’s the way, and thifilie beat me very heartily, until l had to lliout merliand murder all at rnce.Tom. Why did you not leave Him when he i;f|jyou fo badly? .Tetttr. Arra d^sr /hoy, T cotijd never think Sleave, him whifa, I cotjfd eat, he gave me fb magood vickials and .promifed to prefer me to his o'hone nicker, but by ftnint Patrick, I lv*d to ruin |way with my life or aft weas done, tife. I had loft c|idear (boul and b.ody too by him, Tnd.thpf’ f caijjhome much poorer than I weitt away- Tbe gr« ibig bitch dog, that wag my matter’s beft bclovep i t his bead into a nitclier. to lick cut feme rhi’Jend when it was in he odujd not get it our and I 11f ive the pitcher, g5t the hatchet and cur ofi’cldog’s heae, and t’ tn l had to break the pitcher iijlf re [ gopout the head, bv this 1 loft both the d-U- and the pi-t'her. My mafter, hearing of this fwc 1,WS'X, hOf Pady front Cork-Sj ?(roalJ cut the head off me, for the poor doj.!as made ufelefs, and coul* not^ee to foliow anybdy for want of his eyes and when T heard of tlus^,i ran away w4th n*.y own head for ifl had wantedj 1. i had loft my eyes too, then I would not haveien the road to Port Pat;'ch, thrdugh Glcfl nap,it by llaaint patrickl came home alive la fptte ;ofitietn ali.Tom. O rarely done Pady, you behaved like a •jinn, but what is the r aftyn that you Irifh people1 :tar always by fh&int Patri.k., ..hat is he, thisi tint Petrie] ?i [Teag. Arra dear heney, he w's the beft ftiaint inS e world, the father of all good p-'O^le in the kimv-. Tm, he has a great kindnefs hr an Irifiim^n,rjien he hears him calling on his name, he was theft that low’d the potatoes in Irefend,- for he kmrvtwas a bit of good fat ground, it beirtg z, gentle-in’s garden before Ncah’s flooi1.fTom. But dear pady, is fhaint Patrick yet alive,ijit.he hears the Iri'li/people when they fpeak of hislime?lltl1-n.iTeag. Arra, dear honey, I don’t know whetherjii| be ’dead or alive, but it is a long time ft nee th; yliiPd hinij the peeiple t\*ued all heatl ens, but teInld net change-his profeffion, and was-goincr to|!n t!ye country with if, and for taking his gofpei'tray to England, ib the barbarous lories of Dublmoff his head, and v.haffdo you think her didten his head was oft?:Tom. What could a dead man do you fool?IPeag. Dead, faith he was not fuch a big fool asdie yet, he fwim’d over to England aftti' this,1 brought his head along with him.Tom. And how did he carry his head and {Via*,.> * ■ . ■»n>ag. Arra dear honey, he carried his head i‘n•teeth. , * ,Xor.i. No Pady it worf t ho.ld, I mu ft Jaa*$«aMsaI a - Th? Comical Sayingstion for tka*:.. Teng If you won’t bolievc tne, I’ll fw;ar It ovci Jag«in.P A R T II.Tom. A ND how did you fkfe out of-Scot!anoat lift., Tea?-. By the hw dear honey, whejI ea'^te to Port Pa rick, and law my own kingdomi thought I was fafs at home, but I was clean deatand almoft drowned, before I c ould get riding ove.rthe water, for I with nine or ten paflengers morel'leapt into a lit:’* young bo it, having but fou.n-men dwelling in a little houfe, in the one end of i'llwhich was all thacked with deals and after they hailpulled up her leather flick,, and laid her long halteover her more,, they pulled up a long big fbeet libthree pair of blankets to the riggcn oft’ ^houftand the wind-blew in that, which made her galloup one hill and down another, till I thought fhwould have run to the world’s end, if fome parc-f tire world had not catched her by the foot.Tom. 1 fancy, Pady, you was by this time v?rficW*Teag. r-ick, ay Tick beyond all ilcknefs, clean deajas a dooi-.naii; for ?s l liad lof the key of my backfide, 1 Bock’d up the very bottom of my belly, anI thought that' liver and lungs, and all that 1 hafiiould have gone together, then 1 called to the Idlo.v that held bv her tail behind to pull do .\n 1iheet, and’hold her head, till 1 got Icifure to diojund then fay my pravers.Tom. Well then Pudy, and got you fafe aflionat.laft.Teag. Ay, we came afhore very fifl; but, bfliaint Patrick, 1 fliall never venture my d?ar fhoand body in fuch a young boat again, while the winhi: .vs out of S.ots Galloway.1^ iTrOf Pad)' from Cork.Tdvn. Well Pady, and where didytfti go when,lame to Ireland again?T Teag. Ari-a dear honey, and where did 1 go, hut■ o my’own dear couHn, who was now become veryi ch by the death of the old buck his father, who!ied but a few weeks before 1 went over, and theirifh had to bury him out of pity, it did ’not cd(lim a farthing.Tom. And what entertainment or good ulage didpu get there, Pady?;lj Teag. O my dear fltoy, l was kindiy’ufed as anO-ter gentleman, for 1 told him 1 had made fomething.fit by my travels, as well as bimfelf, but had got no•ooney, therefore 1 had to work for my vi£!ua!shilel ftaid with him.Tom. Ho poor Pady, 1 luppofe you would not|ay long; there. ,j Teag. Arra, dear honey, 1 could have fUrd hereng enough, but when a_ man is poor, his friendslink little of him, l told him 1 was going to ice my;|other Harry; Harry, fiiid he, Harry is dead,; dead,I'lTl, and x^ho killed him? Why, faid he, Death;j|llelieu, dear honey, and where did he kill him,lid 1? In ! is bed* faid he, O what for a cowardlyijltron was that, fiid 1 to kill a man in his bed, and,nhat is this fejlow death, faid 1? What is he. He islie that kills more than the.head butcher in all|j»rk doej;, Arra, dear honey, faid 1, if he badjlen on Newrv mountains with his brogs on, andIs broad fw . l .by his fide, all the deaths in Irelandlid not killed him.’ O’that impudent fellow death,iihe had let him alone till he had died for want oflitter milk and potatoes, 1 am fure he would havej/ed all the days of his hie.[Tom. la all your travels, when abroad, did youItver fee non; of my />untr\ men, to interm you ofjjbrat happened at home concerning your relations.I Teag.,Arra, dear fl;oy, 1 fa .v noue ftut Tom Jecc~~o' 12 The Corneal Sayingsone day on the ftreet, but when 1 ctfrte to hisn, iiwas not him but one juft like him.Tom On what account did you go a travelling?Tcaw. Why, a deerniting ferjeant inlilled me to.be a captain, and after all advanced me ne higherthan a fokiier itfelf, but only called me his dearcountryman recruit, for 1 did n/1 know what th«regiment was when 1 law them, 1 thought they wereall gentlemen’s fons and coilegeoners, when 1 faw abex like a bible upon their be’.lie', until 1 faw G for jKing George up< n it, and R for G—d blefs him;ft?, ho, fatd l, 1 fhan’t be long here.Torn. O then Pady, you deferted from them?Teag. Ay that’s what 1 did, and run to the mcGUStains like a ayild buck, and everl'nce when 1 fee an;1 foldiers 1 dole my eyes, Itii they fltould look anc:know me.Tom. And what exploits did you do, when yottwas a (oldie: ?1'eag. Arf a, dear honey. 1 kill’d a man.Tom. And how did you do thaf?Teag. Arra dear honey, when he drop! hitf’fworJ]1 drew mine, and advanced boldly to him, and thecutted of his foot.Tom. O tlie n what adaig fool was you; for yoilought firft to have cut off his head.Teag. Arra dear li.oy, his head was cutted off, bejffore 1 engaged him, elfe 1 had not done it.Toni. O then Pady, you acted like a foof: bn :’ our are not fuch a bi r fool as mUny take you to beyou might pafe For a philofophcr.Teag. A fuluiifair, my father was a fultfffaijibefides, he was a man under greet authority by law ;condemning the juft and clearing the guilty; day*know how they call a honfc’s mother?Tom. Why they call her a mare.Teag A mare, ay very well minded, by thaitPatikk my father was a mare in Cork,Of?**rprcm^ *a vn x;LirK. l» >tTorn And ufrat riches w*s left you by the deathl your mother.j Teag. A bad luck to her old barren belly, (or {heyed in great plenty, and died in great poverty,I poured up all or (lie died, but two hen« and ajixkful of potatoes, a poor efUte for aa.lrith gen-llpman^ ip faith.Tom. And what did you make of your hens anddtatoes, did you Tow them.Teag. Am dear fhoy, 1 fowed them in my belly,ad fold the hens to a cadger.f 1 Tom. And what byfinejs did your mother fol-: '\r after.1'. Teag. Greatly in the merchant way.Tom- And what fort of Goods did (he deal in.' l Teag. D;ar honey, f! e went through the countryid fold (mall filbes, onions and apples: boughtfins and eergs, and then hatched them herfe'.f. 1tilirsembcr of one long necked cock tire had of anwerfea brood, that ftood on the tnidde^and pickedG the ftacs put of the north-weft lo they were ne-Itr fo thick there iince,jiTom. Now Pady, that’s a bull furp.-lTcs all: butj|there none of that cock’s offspring alive in Ire-!|nd now.IjjTeag. Arra dear flmy, 1 don’t think that th'ree, but it is a piry but they had, fi>r they wouldwith people above the fea, which would put theof {hips out of fashion, and then there would bebody drown’d at lea at.all.Tom. Very well Pady, but in all your travels didu never get a wife?Tag, Ay that's what 1'di !, and a wicked wife too.pom. And what is become of her nov/?jT^g Dear ihoy, I can’t ted whether {he is gonePurgatory, or thv. parifli of'Pigtrantrum; hr Qieid me flie would certainly die the firft opportunitycculd get, as this prefcm evil world was dotm'£ LomceUmmWBMU Sajitig!worth the wairing on, fo {he would go and fewhat good things is ia the world to come; andwhen that old rover called the Fever} came raginglilike a madman over the whole kingdom knocking!the people on the head with deadly blows flie weniaway and died out of fpite, leaving me with nothingbut two motherlefs children.Tom- O but, Pady you ought to have gone to sjdoflor, and got fome pills and phyfic for her.Teag. 13/ lhaint Patrick 1 had as good ? pill o;j:my own as arw doflor in the kingdom could givtjher, and as for fneelhing, file could never ufe fnufj.nor tobacco in herfelf.Tom. O you fool that is not what 1 mean; yomought to have brought the do&or to fell her pulhj1arid let her blood if he thought it needful.'Teag. Yes, yes, that’s what 1 did; for 1 ran to th |jdoflor whenever Hie died, and (ought fomtthin}|for a dead or dying woman; the old fooliih d—I-was at -ft c’—tner, and began to afk me fome dirtjj)!queftions, which 1 anfwcred didinclly.Tom. And what did he alk Pady?Teag. W.-y, he afked me, How did my wife g, Ito flooi? to which 1 anfwered. the fame way thotherwomen goto chair; no, laid he, that’* ncwhat i mean, how does (he purge? Arra Mr Doff oil.,(lid l, all the fire in purgatory won’t purge he|clean for (he has both a cold and a ftinl.mig bi eatllSir, (aid .he, that is not what 1 a(k you, whethejdoes fhe Hi—t thick or tljin, Arra, mafter dofto|faid 1, it is fjenetimes fo thick and bard thatye|f|tmay take it in your hand, an i cat it like a piece < !cheefs or pudding, a^d' at other times you mt tdrink it, or fup it with a fpaon. At this he {let)in a moil terrible ra<rey and kicked me down frailand would give me nothing to her. but calfellme a dirty fcoundral, for the (peaking of (h—>t btjfore ladies.0/“ i*i2£?yyVow C^i, ‘ ’I f3om. And ^vas yoi] forry when your wife died.jTea^. Arra dear dioy, if any body had beat me,*as fit to zry myfelf.Torn. And in what gcod order did you bury yourife when fhe died.f 7'eag. O my dear ihoy, fh? was buried in all man-?r of pomp, pride, and fplendour; a fine coffini ith cords in it, and within the coflin alonar withi -rftlf, the got a pair of new brogs, a penny can-i e, .a good hard headed old hammer, with an Irifh5 xpenny piece, to pay her pafiage at the gate andJihat more could Hie look for..fTom 1 really think you gave her enough along:h her, but you ought to have-cried for her, if itis no more than to»be in the fafhion.•freag.Awd hy ftioold I cry vvithout forrow, wheni hired t ..o ciders to try all the way before her toep in the fafiiion. a3om. And what do they cTy before a dead woman.iTeag. Why they cry the common cry, or funeral, utn: that is ufed in our Irifh country.It!Tom. And what manner of cry is that, Pady?ipTeag. Dear Tom, if you don't know 1 will tellI u, when any dies, there is a number of criers goAyiiore huff, fuff, fou, allelieu dear honey,ifut aileth the to dir-l it was not for want of goodliter nail* and potatoes.PART 111-m. XyTTELL Pady, and what did you do whenV V your wij’e died?Teag. Dear honey, what \you!d 1 do; do you»k 1 was fuch a big fool as to die too^ 1 am lure*( had, 1 Qxould not have got fair play, when 1 amit fo old yet as my father was when he died.Tom. ISo pady, it is not that 1 mean, was youWry, or did you weep for her?Breag. Weep for her, by ill Ant Patrick l wouldmil16 .’T$e Comical Sayingsnot weep nor yet be {oi ry fuppofe my own motherand all the women in Ireland had died fevcQ year.fbefore I was born.Tom. What uid you do with your children wher!Hie died.Teag. Do you imagine I was fuch a big fool g!bury my children alive, along with dead womeniArra dear honey, we always commonly give nothim talong with a dead per,'bn, but an old llurt, a wind- |'inj. (beet, a big hammer, with a long candle, aocan Irifli filvtr threepenny piece.Tom. Dear Pady, and what ufe do they make oi]|all them things.Teag. Thkn Tom, fince you are fo inquif]tivc|you mnft go ath the prieft.Tom. What did you make of your ch^ lren tlual'Pady. .Teag. And what jhould I make of them,, do yo’l ■imaginethat I fhould'ry*them into the hands clthe butchers, as, they had been a parcel of youn whogs, by tliaint Patrick, l bad more unuaturality i fme; than put them in an hofpital as. mmy do.Jom. No, l fuppoie you would leave them wityour friends? *"Ttacfriends is fometimei eve»S.-Ay,.ay, a poor man'sworfe than a prcfeJt enemy, the beil friendhad in the world, was my o.vta pocket while ni |money laded, but [ left my two b fbes between th |ptieftsdocr and thepariih ciiurch, becaufe Ithougit was a pfoce or mercy, and then let out-forland in quell of another fortune.Tom. And did you not take good night wityour friends ere you came away?Teag. Arra dear hon:y l had no friends in tPjfworld, be: an Iri'.h half crown, and L wotild hr*fb-en very forr^ to parted with luch a dear pockcomn union at fuch a time.Tom. 1 fancy Pady you’ve corn’d oih with tvlfrein Li/K.T7; ihey call a moon thin? flitting.‘T'pag. \ ou lio like a thief now, for I did not feei fun, moon, nor ftars, all the night tlv-n; for I fetlout from Cork at the dawn of nirht, and I had-j.raveiled twenty miles all but twelve, before gloam-I ng in the morning.jj Tom. And where did you gfo to take (hipping?Ij| 7“eag. Arra dear honey, I came to a country vil-; ;age, called Dublin, as big a city as any n^rket townn all England, where 1 got myielf on board of aijittle young boat, with a parcel of felloe s, and aiong leather bag, I fuppofed them to be tinkers un-fii i aficed what they carried in that leather flick,: hey told me it was the Errglith mail they were go-ji ng over with; then (aid, I, is the milns fo fleaut ini Ingland, that they muflt fend over their corn toireUnd to grind it; the comiol cunning fellows'erfuaded me, it was (o; then I -went down to aittle houfe below the water, hard by the rigg back; f the boat, and laid the down on their leather fade,,:*here I (lept myfeif almoft to death with hunger.And dear tem to tell you plainly, when [lid not know wher6 I was, mit thought I was deadknd buried, for I found nothing all around me buty/ooden walls and timber abov«.| iTbm. An-d how did you come to yourfdf, to knowinhere you was, at laS?Ill 5Teag. By the law, dear fhoy, I feratched my.isead in a hundred parts, and then fet me down tokink upon it, fo I minded that it was my wife that(•as dead, atid not me, and.that ] was alive in therung px>(t boat, with the fe'llows that carries oyer|e Engliih mtal from the Irifh milns.1/trom. O then Pady, i am (ore you was glad whenHr found yourfelf alive?iteag. Arra dear fnoy, 1 was very lure l was a'ive,[jt 1 did not thisk to live Ionw, lo I thought it waslitter for me to ikal .Ini be han -’d than to live18 1 he Comical SayingJall rcy 'day*!, and die diredtly with hunger at laft. |»tom. "What bad you no meat nor money alarwith you?teag. Arra,%dear rhoy} 1 gave all mv monev to tin Lcaptain of the houfe, or goodman of the iltip, t; ■carry me into the fea, or over to Eoglanci, and whe1 was like to eat my old brogues for want of victual; L1 drew my hanger and cut theloik off their ieafhcfack, thinking to get a lick of their meal; "but ajlelieu dear fl'oy, 1 found nothing, meal nor feet', ibut a parcel of papers and letters, a poor morfel it ldeed for a hungery man!tom. O then pady you laid down your honefffor nothing.teag. Ay, ay, 1 was a great thief, but got nothiito Ileal.tom. And how did you come to get vlfhialsat la:teag. Ailelieu dear honey, the thoughts of me .and drink, death and life, and every thing elfe wout of my head, 1 had rot a thought butene,tom. And wb^t wat that Pady?tesor. to go dtiwn among the fifhes and becomewhale, then 1 would have lived an eafy life all rrdays, having nothing to do but drisk fait wat(and eat caller oyflers.tom. What, Pady, was you like to be drownagain.tesg- Ay, ay drown’d as cleanly drown’d as a fiifor the fen blew fo very loud, and the vdnd ranhigh that we were all call away fife on fliore; anot one of os drown’d at all.tom. And where did you go, vh.nyou camecfnore.teag. Arra dear honey, 1 was not able to go awhere, you might caft a knot on my belly, 1 washollow in my middle; fo 1 went into a geutlemahoufe and roid him the bad fortune 1 had of bedrown’d between Ireland and the foot of his gar; .< I,.'- .-' V5 7*2^5* 7ST0/ Path from Cork* 19■ ?re w? came all lafe 'alhore. But all the comfortpf fr.om him was a word of truth.110m. And what was that Pady?Eeag. Why he told me, if 1 had been a good boyhome, 1 needed not to have gone fo far to pul'llil fortune with an empty pocket; to which 1 an-ered, and what magnifies that, as long as 1 am af>d workman at no trade at all.ijtaifli. 1 fuppofe, Pady, the gentleman would make1 dine with him.i eag. 1 really thought 1 was, wheft 1 faw themi fling and (kinning fo many black chickens, whichis norltirtg but a few dead crows th*/ were goingeat; ho, ho, faid 1, them is but dry meat at the1, of all the fowls that flies, compare me to thepg of an ox; but all that came to my (hare, wasiiece of boil’d herring and a roafled potatoe, thatait!; the fird bit of bread 1 ever eat in England,r om. We'! pady, what, bufinefs did you follow1 icr in England, when you was fa poor,iteag. What fir, do you imagine l was poornen 1 came over on fuchan bonourab'e occaiion asiliift, and bring myfelf to no preferment at all. As lJ s; an able bodied man in the face, 1 thought tomade a hrigadeer, a grenadeer, or a fuz lecr, orn one of them biue g^wns that holds the fiery;k to the bung hole of the big cannons, when'ii|y let them oft, to fright away the French; 1 waslure as no man alire ere 1 came from Cork, theft preferment 1 could get, was to be riding mafter1 a regiment of marines, or one of the black horfcFi'0m. "Wdl pady, you feem to be a very clever;le man, :o be all in one body, what height areu .i eag. Arra, dear flioy, 1 am five foot no’.hingr alll» one inch.■ Cm. And where ia England was it you liftedf2 bteag. Arr?., dear ftiov, 1 was going thro’ thattie country village, the famous city of Chefler, tgreets was very fore l>y reafon of the hardnefs" ofr.teef, and iamenefs ol my brogs, fo 1 went but v<tflowly a.crofs the- flreets, from port to port ipretty long way, but 1 being weary thought not href.it: then the people came all troweling to me ahad been a world’s wonder, or the twandering Je;For the rain blew in my face, and the wind wettall my belly, which caufed me to turn the bacifiof my coat before, and my buttons behijpd, whiwas a good fafe-tnjard to my body, and die fta'ntion of my r ? d back; as 1 had »ot a pood (hirttom. 1 am lure then, pady, they would take yfor a foci?teag. No5 eo, hr, they admired me for my wdom. for 1 always turned my buttons,'before, wh||-;the wind blew on behind, but 1 wondered grea,how the people knew my name, snd where 1 caifrom; for every one tcM another, that was pafrom Cork; 1 fuppofe they knew my face by feeimy name in the news papers.tom. Wei) p^dy, what tiulinefs did you followChefter?teag. to be fure 1 was not idle working at noth!at all,until a de^uiting lerjeant ca.ne to town, wtwo or three fellows along with him, one beat:on a fiddle and another playing on a drum, toll' !rttheir airs thro’ the flrett, as it they Were.goingbe married;- and 1 law them courting noneyoung men; fo to bring myfelf to no prefermennil, 1 lifted for a fjdier becaulb 1 was tx)a higha jiramledeer,t )•-. And what lining uioney did you get, pad|teag Arra dear fn< y, 1 g >t five tnirteeus a<pair < t Knglilh hr-'.gs; the guinea and the reft o£|pi id was lent away to London, to the King my rter, to buy me new ihirts, a cockade, and conivjOf P idy frovA Cork. 21hat, they made me fwear the malici-vilrie agaip.h the King, the colours,i d nay captain, telling me if ever L dei'ert and not .i in away, then I lhould .be ihot, and then whipt<lde*tb, through the regiment.:.Ton. No PaJy, It is firft vrhipt and tl^en (hot(j^ mean*: Teag Arra d af Ihoy, it is all in one thing at laft.It it is beft to be fhot, and then whip, the clever-■i way to die I’ll warrant you. - *: Tom. H«w much pay did yon g£t, pady?iieag. Do you know the little fat tall ferjeant thatd me to be a foldier?i om. Aj:d how (hould I know them I never fawi fool? ' .i :eag. Dear Ihoy, you may know him wbe her you: him cr not; for his fate is all bor’d in big holesh the fmull pox, his nofe has the colour of a; ifter-toe, and his chin like a well wafhen pntatoe:Ills the biggell rogue in cur kingdom, you’ll knowIk when he cheats you, and the wide world; andHither mark, he dights his nicuth before hejinks, and blows his nele before he take a fnufF;ijf rogue height m« a jjttpence a,day, kill or noatid when I laid Sunday and Saturday both3 ether, and all the days in one day, 1 can’t makeftahny above fiveptnce of it.: om. \ ou fhould have kept an account, and alk’d{ :r arrears once a month,^eag. that’s what I did, but he read a pater nof-| out of his prayer-book, wherein all our names? written; fo rr. ch for a flop-hold to my gun, toI kies, to a pair of comical barn hole, with lea*!|r buttons from top to yoe, and toorft of all, heold have no lefis then a penny a week to a doc-arra, faid I, l never had a fore finger, nor yettick toe, all the da^s of my life, then what havej do with the dc&or, or the ikttorto do with me?jiSng for mys oath of de22tom. I and did he rti ke you pay all thefe thinteag. Ay, ay, pay and better p^yj he tookbefore his captain, who made me pay all was inbook, Arra, .Bar captain, laid f, you ?re a coraifort of a fellow now, you might as well"makepay for my coffin before 1 be dead as to pay i'oidoctor before 1 be lick, to which h<i inlwered is.pafiioD, {irra, faid he I have feen many a better niburied without a coffin, fir, faid I, then i’ll hav!-coffir, die when 1 will, if there be as much woin ad the world, or ] fhaU not be buried at all, tihe call’d for the ferjeant, faying you fr? gobuy that man’s coffin, and put it in the ftore,he die, and flop fixpence a week off Ids pay fof lNo, no, fir, faid !, I’ll rather die witbe-.tf a uofand ftek noi.e when I’m dead, but if you beclipping another fixpence off my poor pay, k*eeall to yourfelf and I’ll {'wear all your oaths of agttment wre had back again, and then feek fokwhere you will.tom. O.then, pady, how did you end the matteag. Arra, dear ffioy, by the mights of fhpat-rick, and help of my brogs, 1 both endeiand mended it, for the ne^t night before thegave,them leg-bail for ir.y fidility, and then vabout the couctry a fortune teller, dumb andas 1 was not.tom herw old was you pady, when you was adier laft.teag. Arra, dear honey, 1 was three dozen alfjtwo, and it is only but two years free, fo 1 ronly four years of three dozeayet, and when tfix dozen, more I’ll be older than 1 am I’ll waryou.tom. O what pady, by your own account, yetthree dozen of years old already.teag. O what for a big fool you are now torn, ’IUf p/rdyfrom Cork. 23lou count the year 1 lay i ck, which time 1 count noi nve at ail, • ^«i P ADY’s TUMBLE PETITION^ OR ?tJ1PPT.ICATION.,:k"i OOD Chri'lian p;ople, behold ms a man! wholijjr has corn'd thro’ a wortd of wonders* a hell,,|jU of hudfhlpsy dangers bv lea, and dangers byj|nd and yet 1 am alive, you may fe« my hand<:ooked like a fowl’s foot, and that 13 no wonderid all coniidering my i’ufierings and forrovrs: Oh!|h! oh! go:Kl people, l was a man in my time who|ad plenty of the gold, plenty of the fiiver, plentyr tht clothes, plenty Of the butter, the bter, beefJtifl bifket. And uow, now 1 have nothing: beingiken by the tu ks, and relieved by the Spaniards,I y fixty fix days at the liege of Gibraltar; and got>thing to eat but fea wreak and ravv niufTcls; thenat to f'ea for our fafety, call: upon the B .rbarianoah, among the woeful wicked Algerines, wheree were t .ken, and tied with tugs and ladders,Dtfe locks and cowchains, then cut and caftratejitrd and tefticles, (gnite aw :y} if you will not*be-ppye, put in your hand and lec|. how every female’sjhade iniooth by the llieer bone,* where nc-ain risto be ieen but what is natural, then maderur efcape to the dei'ert wild wildernefs of Arabia,i'here we lived amongft the wild affesg upon wind,|nu, and fapiefs ling. Afterwards put to fea inlehull of an old houf'e, -^here we was tcuTed above|id below the clouds being driven thro’ thicketsbd groves by fierce, courfe, calm and contrarydnds; at laft, was call away upon Salifbury plains,,herc our veiicl was dathed to pieces againlt a cab-.1 >ge Hock. And now my humble petition to youa-d Chriftian people is, for one hundred ofmr teef, one hundred of your butter, another of: ur cheel’e, a cafk of your bilker, a tun of youra keg of your rum, with a pipe of your wine,^4 77*.' Csfnical SLjUigra lump cf your gold, a piece of your Glv&r, a K-t* iyour halfpence or faxtlUBg?, a waught of your kidter-milk, a pair of your old bree&hes, liockingstlMio^s, e ven a thaw of tobacco far charity’s Lk;A CREED FOR ROMISH BELIEVERS.* i. a ora devil in itsHead.I. Believe the pope of Rome, to be right heiand true (ucctfiLr of peter t>he Apoftle, and tbijhe has a power above the kirgs of the world, beir.ipirhual and temporal, endowed with a commascation from beyond the grave, anu canning r-jany departed flv ul * he pleafes, evtjjas the woman of Endor br;.ught up^S fmuel to Saul, by the fame power tS1can, shifted by the inchar tment of o|Manafleh a king in Ifrael. 1 believe aifoin the R |ntifli priefts, that they are very civil t hafte gentljmen, keep no v.ives of their own, but partake a lit'of other men’s w hen in fecret confelfion. 1 ac tno?ledge the w, r[piping c f images, andreiics of thairdeparted to be very juft, but if they hear, anohelp us, they are but a parcel, of ungra^vretcher.