i ConaueitOi FranceB YTo v.liich at^ added,The PARSON’S FAT WEDDPR.The CARES of a MARRIED LIFE,T H E V I R G I N’ S WALK.'GLASGOW,miNTED BY J- 5E hi. ROB K R. T 0 O K,0 A L T M A R K £ T, i Sox.King HENRY V. his Conqueft of France,in Revenge for the Affrcnt.offered bv theFrench King ; in fending him (infteadof ten TONS of GOLD, the Tribute)three TENNIS BALLS.AS our King lay muling on his bed,he bethought himfeif upon a time,:Gf a tribute that was due from France,,. had not been paid for fo long a time.Till icj, ^IC»O he Called for his lovely Page,his lovely Page then called he;Saying, You mu ft go to the King in France,to the King in lance. Sir, ride fpeedily.Then went away this lovely Page.this lovely Page then away Sew he ;When fce.caJne to the King in France,he fell low down upon his knee.. My Matter greets you, worthy S.r, ^TEN TON of geld th It is du'C tO He,That you would fend biaf his tribute home, kor in IFreneh land you fotpn fhaii him fee.Your Matter's yot.ug and of tender years,not fit to « me unto my degree :And I will fend him three tennis-balls,that with them he may icnru to play.f( s l0 then returned this lovely Page,this lovely P *ge then returned he.And when he came to our gracious hing.he fell low down cu hix bended knee-What news t what news ? my trufly Page,what is the news you’ve brought to raef'I’ve brought fuch news from the KLiagia France,that he and you will ne'er agree.1 He fays, You’re of young aad tender yearsfnot fit to come to his degree,Aud he will fend you three tennis-balls,.that with them you may learn to play.Recruit me Chelhire and Lancalhirc,and Derby Hills that are fo free:No marry’d man, nor widow’s fon tfor no widow's curfe fliall go with me.ITiey recruited Cheshire and Lancalhirc*and Derby HiHs that are fo free :No raarry’d man, nor widow's fon :yet there was a jovial bold company.(Q then he march’d into the French land:with drums and trumpets fo merrily.And then befpoke the King ia France,lo, Yonder comes proud King Henry,-The firfi. (hot that the Frenchmen gave,they kill’d our Englifhmcn fo free;We kill’d ten thou fand of the French,aud the reft of them they run away*iLnd 'whs'.n we march’d to Paris gates,with drums and trumpets Co raerriiy,0 then befpoke the King ta France,have mercy Lord ca tny men and me.O I wi< fend him his tribute home,' tea tun -of gold th?.t was due to he,/•*;d the belt Flower that is in ail France,to the Rofe in Laglaud i will give free.THE PARSON’S FaT REDDER.^ /; A R Y i b? M 1 S is now come on,jV X' and Chriftmas is drawing near:And we have notbing in the houfc,for to make good Ciuidmas Cheer. Fal &c»•■if *The little wee boy he’s fraadieg by,and hearing what his father di-* fay.Father, we’ii kill the Miniftcr’s W^d.kr,and we*!! have mutton without delay.The PricR he has a good tat Wedder,as e’er was led on corn or grafs:I’ve got tome crumbs of bread in my pocket.I’ll v/yie the Wedder into the houfe.We will pm cn the meiHe kettle,and (Inks beiowh to mske it boil;And we will kill the Miuider’s Wedder,end we’ll have mutton without any toil.The little wee boy eocs to the wood,and ay fae merrily as lie fang,My father has kill'd the MiniJlers Wedder,i would .cot tell this to any man.C 5 )I The Miniiler being in the wood,• icariop: uis back ag iinit au oik :if youilfixjg’.hat fongm the. church to-Tierrow,iki give you a crown but and a new coat,'The morrow it being Chriftmas day,the Minifter h>' muii be there 'The, people ail fbckM to the church,jurt a* they’d been going to a fair.The Mincer's gone to the church,the congregation for to view ;iTherchi be a boy here in ^ little,will fmg a fong that: will be true'The little wee boy came to the church,and ay fae merrily as he fang;I catchM the Prieit in bed with my^nothcr,l would nor. tell this to any man.Yon are a liar, fays the Pried:,as fure?s in the pulpit 1 do (land;I never was in bed with your mother,nor yet (o nigh as to touch her hand.Then you are a liar, fays the boy,as fare’s in the pulpit you do kneel >I catched you in bed with my mother,Iyour breeches hanging down to your heeVThe Minifter being quite afliam’d,the people gave a loud buzz. $Running all mad out or the cunrch,crying, fuch a Prieft ws never faw.( 6 )But you would have iaught if you had but feen*how the litt’e wee boy kept up the joke ?Running out after the rainHter, cryinggive me ray crown Sir and my new coat.The Parfon has run quite out of the parith,left behind him his church & his wealth;The boy 8c his mother fed well on the wedder,and at every meal they drank his healthFhe CORE'S of a MARRIED LIFE.TV/g Y gown was of the London black,J. and many a yard about:My petticoat was a fcarlet red,and lac’d about my foot:Chor. Then was l a maid, a maid,and joy came to me then.Both meat and drink and rich clothing,I’m fure I wanted naue.,My (lockings they were tightly wrought,made of the fioeft (ilk,My (hoes were of the Spanifh leather,my buckles were of the gilt. Then, &c.My fmock was of the white bleach’d linen,as white as the driven fnaw,The belt that was aboot my middle,was fdk and filver a’.The bcrJs hscg black about my neck,and many a ring therein.The cap of Savva wat on aiy head?was v/i'l worth ten (hiring.There cxme a young raau to ray bed-fide,aik’tl me if i would wed;i He was fo (u!i of courtefir;,! agreed to what ne laid.]C!ior. Then was I a wife, a wife,and farrow came to rac then.Both care and it its and a wearied life,I am furc I wanted Dane.y,gown it was of the Loudon Black,and never a yard about;I'My petticoat of the courfeft gray.ill ra^s unt'> theThcb, &c;f My ftockings wrre the onm-rofc call’d,all clouted round about,liMv were of ^oanifli feather,tliw bottoms of them were out. Fhen, 8rc»!iMy fmock was of the unbleach’d harn,and many a hole therein ;rxfce belt that was about my middle,was a good leathrea Ptring. I’heo, fee.HThc beads hang black about my neck,and never a mg therein t'The can of lawn was on ray head,was icarce worth one farthing.'CHORUS.And then was l wife, a wife,and finrrow came to me then.Both care and flrife, and a v;eary life.I’m lute l wanted nane.T H E V l R G IN'S \V a L K.\T OHNG Caeiia Id her tender years,I the r:.fe but on its fialk,FiU'd with the Vtroh-/s medeR Fears,ricppM forth ene ev’n to veal!;.She f.*! had heard of L'jvc.'s blind Boy,and \vifh’d to find fieri out,Exp: cfirh for to find the joy,cf which lac’d been in doubt.A pleafi-nt flndy grove fhe fpy’d,where trembling afpens tliooknCiofe to it’s tlowVy verge did glide,a inurm’rinc: limpid brook.Annntor fighing there fhe found,fhe heard him talk of love.Hi', crook lay by him on the ground,» bile thus he pray’d to Jove.Grant, mighty PcwV! that f may find,feme e.fe withiu this breafi ;Grant tfia> my Galia may fit kind,and nv he Amy;:tor bleft.Grant iier to know the force of love,and to her fwairds defire,Grant but of Etc file may approve,and more I’ll ne’er require.Oiargow, Printed by J. & M. P.obertfon, SaHmr.r’-'et, 1S0