FUN UPON FUN ;■ ■OR,THE COMICAL AND MERRYTRICKSCILEPER therr aJL Jfk.,OR.IN TWG PARTS.mkV'#4^9' 1 ' a V , ?#»<*'*.*.,**•* ft *: ♦»f At Ji 5*-jsrv-Sj4^STIKLINC:;« w. T'?^r\is,Wkf*: H akvuj.y, fc?»t "xi 5.ik, * r * ke and t-ipsarm A4«Nrt»«f Hiwwiw, Cktidrca’s ffocic^B rie, Ac., Cti,FUN UPON FUN jOR,THE MERRY TRICESorLEPER, THE TAILOR,v ’ '*-**?*;■- lV'• c ' A - '■ ■ - *I-EPFiCs father livoti in a village a-bout six tnileii irom Glasgow, and diedwhen he was hut very young ; he lefta widow and three children, twodaughters and a s n ; Leper being theyoungest, was- greatly idolized by hismother, who was a good soft-naturedwojoan, very indusjriotis, and follow’-ed the business of bleaching cloth.As Leper grew up he turned a verymischievous b y, pitying many triclcson the neighbourhood, such as tyingcats to Tog’s tails* breaking hen’s legs,stopping people’s lums or chimney-tops ; so that his poor mother wassadly vexed with complaints againsthim.3To jjpt him kept from mischief, shtprevaiie 1 with a tailor co *a e him a? anI apprentice ; he settled, and, was verypeaceable for s m.e time, until he gut somuch of his tra•’e on hi^ finner endsas n ight make him pass h r a journey¬man, and then he hnhfmrent whe¬ther he suid with his master or rot.His. mi tress gave him but very littlemeat when he wrought at home, to heliked best ro be in other houses, wherehe got both meat and diversrm.Leper was re so bed on revenge a-gainst his mb ress tor her thin .kaii nokitchen, and liulr bread ; for thoughfifsh was boiled in the pot, there wasnone fcr poor l eper and his master, huta little bit on Sunday's, and then ah thebones were kept and put in the por, tomake the broth through the week. Le- •per perceived tliat wtien she mok ofTthepot, she always tr.rned her back to me aand took out the fbsh, and set it on a< shelf itUyher own bed-room. One night,after work, lie steals out a pan, ems aprececf d.bh out of adeadhor3e,antitheui4goes to a liaie kiln and boils it: next Iday, his master being from home, hislandlady and him being in the house,after she had set off the pot as usual,and taken out her bit of good beef, he Jiwent out. for some time, and then came |back saying,the minister's lass is wishingyon to go directly and speak to her imistress. Off she goes in all haste;Leper runs and takes away her bits ofgood meat, and lays down his horseflesh ; and knowing she would returnin a passion, and sit down with a sossin ber cushioned chair, as she used, hetakes a large pin, and stabs it straightthrough the cushion, with its head onthe chair, and the point to her back¬side. So in she comes in a rage, anddown she sits with ail her weight onthe pin point and then roars out,‘Mur¬der, murder,’ for she was sticket in thea—~e; the neighbours came running in,and Leper went cut writh his bit ofgood beef, leaving the wives to doctorhis landlady's doup as they pleased.He still denied the doing of it, and his5roaster believed it might happen acci¬dentally; but the howdie was very oftto be had before it was got hale again ;and his landlady, by eating of that l*>rsebeef, took such a loathing at flesh, thatLeper and his master got all the beefI ever af er, and his landlady turned cueI of the kindest mistresses aa apprenticeii could wish for.! There was a neighbour wife on whom.1 Leper7 used to play tricks sometime?,I for which she came and complained tot his ir aster, and got him severely beat-II en several times. Leper resolved to(] be revenged on her; so one day hea came to the backside of the house (nonone being in but herself,) and took upa big stone, and runs along the rongti11 wall with all his strength, which roaf-'*ed Lke thunder in the inside of th*>4house ; and frightened toe wife so, thatishe thought the house was turnohngMown about her ears,upon which she ranout and sat down at a distance, lookingevery minute when the house would faddown, till her husband came home andpersuaded her to go in, to whom shetold the above storv. * Hout tout,daft tapie,* said he, * the house willstam? these hundred years.’ Leperknowing they were both in, comes andplays the sa ne trick over again whichalso frightened the good man so much,that he cried out—-k Run, Maggy, run,for my heart plays, pitty-patty.' Andthey would not lodge.in the house anymore, till the masons convinced themof its sufficiencyThere was another neighbour whohad a snarling cur dog, vviuch bit Le¬per’s leg;'Leper reso ved to be reven¬ged on the dog ; and so one night hebatches the dog, and carries him to thekirk, where the rope of the hell hungon the o'uvide ; so with his garter hetied the tlog’sdcre foot to the rope, andleft him hanging ; the dog strugglingto get free; syc the bell a*nngmg,which alarmed the whole village. Every'one ci led out, •Wonderful sir ! won¬derful‘sirs! the o.cvd is ringing thebell.’ When they saw the blacic col-ley hanging at the rope, I true it »et:he minister, and all the peop’e to theirprayer*: but Leper, fearing he wouhlbe detected by his garter, came to theminister** side, and asked the reveredc!gentleman what was the matter f * In¬deed, my bairn,* said he, ‘ ’ris the dtilringing the kirk bell.* Says Leper, I’llgo and see him, for I mver saw thedeil r.he minister cried, ‘ Srcp tuatmadhladdie;’ buc Leper ran and loosed thadog, crying,. ‘ It’s snch a man’s nog,1‘K'liich ha<i the rope in its teeth.* Theyill cried out, 4 1 i.e ffeiiTs i’ tire drgjtiiOideit’s i’ the <1og f then took up stone®Jfnd.felled poor cofley, ;tn.i the <i jvil gotjtlie blame of making toe dog ting /?.$•■ jell, '{'his spread L p r’s ia.t.e rofdt'-|.ng one of the wisest and most cou'f#*.r.ebus tailori thai was in ail the king*dom ; and many, shaking their heads,ifiaid, *It was a pity he was a tailor, butic^pram or general > fan army, as thtfflevil cull'd not f\ar hi r.*After tnis, a farihef in the n<tigh-:pourhdbd hearing the fame of Leper,sHow he Had frighted the deii frae beinga bellman, rent fbr him to an ale-house,Sfijid drank with him very heartily,-andtold him he was sadly borne down byjja spirit of jealousy against his wife,?.nd a suspicion of her being too freewith a servant lad he had before j andif he would keep it secret, and learnhim to find it out, he would give hismother a ). ad cf meal, to which Leperagreed, and gave the poor supposed;cuckold instructions how to behave.So ho t e he goevS, and finds himselfvery sick, and *evtry day worse andvvorsej taking death to hi;n,he blesseshisthree small children, g.nd charges his■yrite not to marry, until bis childreniiu'tt’4 do something tor themselves.Tjaishypv. critical woman takes a roaring,*, Aha! u arry, she should never marry llno, no, there sliould never a man lie bymy side, or kiss my lip^ after thee, myain dear lau b, Johnny.’—Then he act-ied tire dead man as well as he possiblycould; the neighb ours vver* called in,,and Lie’s fairly o’erseen, as the old say-9ling is, before good neighbours. Thesorrowful wido v made sad lament,wrung her hands and core lier hair—-[’The reverend women about be^au todress the corpse, and assert her for ailshirt. ‘ Ay, ay, said she, he has twa new: iinen sarics, and there in an auld ane inIthe the bottom o’ the last, that naebody. ^an wear ; ony thing s ga le enough forkhe grave. Well, sai i they, -ve must-jhave so.ne linen for a winding-sheet,wee!, quo’ she, I hae twa cut o* linen’ the kisc neulc ; bu: there’s a pair o’uld linen sheets, hol’d i' the middle,ay do weel enough; I hae need to bearefu’ ; I a u a poor wido w the day wijhree sma’ bairns.’Aweel, the corpse is dressed, and laidn the lop o" the big chest, waile theeighbonrs sat by her condoling herisfortune, and how the funeral thingswere to be provided : said one, ‘ TheofEu must needs be seen about first.*Ay, ay, he has some new deals in theoam, he brought the n to make a bedbut we’ll no creak them, there’s the10auld barn door, and the calf kir-t willdo well enough ; or.y thing’s glide e-nough to gang to the grave w i’; hu* O,quo’ she, * «en i for Sandv, «ny hoi.estauld sefvaof, and he’li see eVery thingri.tfht lone; i*il tel! hi n where 'hewill get siller to do any thing *3’; he'sthri lid that v\i!i nor see me u rang d.*Then Sat dy co ones wry in g his fate, andrubbing hi* eyes. * O Sandy, there’s a«iad al eration* it ere, and ba-a-i, e! ecries like a binen calf, 4 O vrs, will yegang a’ bu r rhe lu>use u‘fl 1 tell hhnwhat to do; Inm tfu y went, arid uhcreshe fell a hissing ol Sandy, and said,Novy, my dear l e aula char.it s ii g guestis a vii’, and wt hj get oiir w-dl o’ itr;er ;be as hauling of tv- ry t ing as. ye can,k>r. tiiou ke.is ids a’ thy a in ; but thecorpse’s sister, and some otner jiev.pleCa tie in; hen ih y h tnt to ste thecorps-, tifts up t- e cloth off his faci,ami'seeing hun all :n a pma; of swear,tai l, Henh ne’s a bonn > corpse, a- d abve.y liive cufoui'; when he ud nolonger c n^in himseir to any on tae11joke, but up he ?or among,them, a deal; of people ran for it, an i wife criedj out, * U, mv dear, do you me r Ay,i you base jade mi hole, better ihanSever I did.’ Ju jps on the flaor, gets| bis staff and runs after ijandy, anda catches iiitn in the fields, af little fromthe house ;—ate .v.*i rani?, 'v'.tii hi»i| siiicr and n .ughbours who,,had come tosee ifis corpse : an . poor Sandy wenshome with a .s^in lull-of terror, and asorting of sore bones, took a sore fever,and died a fe •• days afaer, iso he gotquit at ins Cue: olJer, and L6per’s tno-ther e ;t her load of meal,Lei itr’s mother v as a careful indus¬trious wire, but, as cue,Dy-word is, ‘ aworking mother u akes a i^)ly daugh¬ter,’ and so fit nappmed lyre, for shehad twa idle glai ec sluts of daugh¬ters, that would do nothing but lie intheir bed in the morning a5 the.saying is, ‘ tae sun was like to burn ahole in tneir paC vsines..’ Tne old wo*man,who was b caching some elodgveaftvery early at woric m the mornings,mssBm12and Leper’s patience being worn outTsith the laziness of his two sisters, heresolved to play a trick cn them, fortheir reformation ; so he goes and getsa mcncloth, and spreads it on the bedabove them, and sends the dead bellthrough the town, inviting the peoplenext day, at four o’clock, afternoon, tothe burial of his two sisters, for theyhad died suddenly : this brought all theneighbouring wives in, v.ho one afteranother lifted up the n crtcloth, andsaid with a sigh, ‘ I hey’ve gone to theirrest, a sudden call indeed !’ Their aunc,hearing of this sudden news, came run¬ning in all baste, and coining wherethe jades’ nuthcr w as at work, and wasignorant' f ti e story, she crips out, 1 Fyeupon ye, woman, fye upon** e !’ 4 What'sthe matter, sister,’ says shei ‘What’s the1 think you might let your.V,Vvn veun augh-motter !work stand f r aed•ters are fcaith lying corpse.’ 4 My bairnscorpse ! 1 am certain they went to bedhaie ond fair last night/ ‘ But 1 tell>ays the .other,4 the dead bell hasyou,ISbeen through warning the folks to theburial; then the mother cries out, * Othe vil!ain ! O the villain ! that he didrot send me wt rd,* So they both ran,land the mother, as scon as she enteredthe house, flies to the bed, crying, ‘ Oimy bairns my dear bairns !' on whichthe sluts rose up in a consternation, tothe great furpiise of the beholders, andthe great mortification ot the girls, whothought shame to let their noses out of'doors, and the diversion of the wholeitov.n.Leper and his master went to a gen¬tleman’s house to work, where therewas a saucy housekeeper, who had moreignorance and pride than good senseland manners ; domineered over herfellow sevants in a tyrannical n;ar.ner:iLe^er resolved to mortify her pride jiso he finds an ant’s nest, and take.*thur white eggs, grinds them to a pow-jder, and puts them into the dish herifiupper sow ns v as to be put in. Afterjkhe had taken her supper, as she wasjcoveiing the table, the immock powderbegan to operate, and she let a greatfart. Well done Margaret,saystheLaird,your arse would take a cau ioner j be¬fore she got out of the chamber doorthe let fly another crack ; then sne goesto order her fcllo'A- servant to give the lLaird his supper, but before she could Igave the necessary directions, she gave !fire again, which set them all a 1 ui;. h- j:ing. biie runs ir.:o a room herse f, and |there site p ayed away her own gun-bat* |tery so tasr, that you would have |thought she had been besieging the Ha-1vannah. Tne Laird and Lady caneto hear the lun : they were like to split Jtheir sides at proud Maggy.. So next!tnorniiig she left her place, to the greatisaiisfacuon et all iier feliow servant*', lPAKT II.rLeper's landlady became very harsh tohis inaster, and very often abuse i himexceedingly sore with ner ongue andhands, and always called upon nun foil;more money, and to iiavead tne money15in lier keeping which Leper was <rorryfor. it so happened on a day that thetailor had got a drubbing both with'Itonyne^ and tongs, and he pouched his|thiinbfe, ksni was going to ina :e a queen]of her ;. ^ hen she saw that, she criedout, O! •' ill you leave a p -or tender dy¬ing woman. But Leper, knowing thecau-e of her ill nature better than hismaster di i, advised him to take her, onja fine day, about a mile out of the to wn,t land give her a walkyand I-e would stayat hoii;e and study a.remedy for lier dis-Ilorder—\way they both went, but as, she was con-plaining for want or health,filami ti a" she vas very weak she cried -rlfrequei tty out, O ! Ms a crying a sin ton'take a woman ii» niy condition out o’erdthe door. Luring their absence, Leperllgoeb and searches her bed, and bt-lowhebols erhegets a bottle of rare whisky,f which he takes a hearty pud, andhen p sses in it to make it up, gets aihdipmny worth of snuff, and puts itn also, saaites alropether, and so setaIt in i.s place again—Home they came.snd she was exceedingly distressed as awoman could be, and cried out, it was ahorrid thing to take her cut of thehouse. The tailor, seeing her so bad,thought she would have died, ran asfaat as he could tor a drain, but she, inher hypocrisy, pretended she could nottake it, and called on him to help her tobed, into which he lays her. He vvns not ;well gone when she fell to her bottle,taking two or three hearty gluts, then ,she roaifj out, ‘ Murder, 1 am p dsoned ^I’m poisoned.’—Booking and purgingbegan, and the neighb* urs Were called .in ; she leaves her blood upon poor Le¬per,and te'./s how such an honest woman 'brought her ae bottle r.s another wasdone, and the mm tiering loon had s;o- ? ;3en it,andputinabcttle ot poison instead ■;of it. Leper took to his heels, but was ■pursued and earned beture a justice ofthe peace, where he told ail he had done, 4 ,which made the justice laugh heartilyat the joke, ami the cailoi’s wife waswell purged from her ttigned sickness, ^laziness, and cursed ill inLUie j toi' al-: P»ITw?rs when she bep-an n curl her nosefor the future, the tailor had no moreto say, bur, ‘ Maggy, mind the bottle.Leper was working with a master tai¬lor in Glasgow, who hungered his men,and one morning, just when breakfastwas set on the table, in comes a gentle¬man to try on a suit of clothes; the mas¬ter being obliged to rise, desired the ladsto say the grace themselyes ; every onerufused it, and put it to his neighbour,till Leper undertook it, and said, withan audible voire, that the stranger gen-tleman might overhear him, as follows :Ocb, hcch ! we are a parcel of poorbeastly bodies, and we are as beastlyguided, it we do not work we get noth¬ing to eat, yet v. e ^re always, eatingand fre ting ; fudging and half starvingis like to be our fortune ; scartings andscrapings are tne most of our mouth¬fuls ; we would fain thank thee for ourfullness, if it were so, but the rest ofour benefactors are not worthy the ac¬knowledging ;—Uech hey. Amen.’ Thegentleman laughed till his sides werelike to burst, and gave Leper lialf-a-Crown to drink.Leper was not long done with his ap¬prenticeship till he set up tor himself,and go? a journeyman and an appren¬tice ; was co ing into very go >d bus¬iness, and, had he restrained his roguishtricks, he might have done very well.He and his lads being e np’oyed to workin a farmer s hduse where the housewifewas a great miser, and not very clean¬ly in making meat, and sneeveledthrough hern isegready when she spoke.In the morning, when she -vent to macetheir pottage, she made a Ushum ofwashing the pot, whicn to appearanceSeemed to him to have been amongstthe first that had been made ;.theti sheget it bef re the fire ’ill she wsii to cuewell, in ft'inch time Leper, 1 >oiing intoit, stes two great holes in the bottom,-stopped with coats, he rakes up hisgoose, an i holds it as high as lus head,then lets it <iro > into the p1/:, winchknocked out the b atom of it ; presentlyiii comes the wife with cne water, and’V19hours it into the pot, which set the fire»side ail in a dam, tor stdl as she pouredn it ran out; the wife being short-jughted, or what they caU sand blind,,ooks into the pnr, holds up both herlands, and cries, 4 Losh preserve me,urs ; for the grip between the twa holess broken;’—says Leper, die pot was oldEnough, but do you not ken that tailor’sicttage is heavier than other men’s,indeed, lad, I believe it, but they sayi/e’re a warlock ; ids Wednesday all the,vor!d over, and a waeful Wednesday•o n.e i; deed ; n y pot might hae' served!:ne this lif’cv year, a sae wad it e\ n.1’his sp rt diverted Lep> r arid his ladstihrough the day; and atiei sup per, know¬ing he was to get some oil tv bed, asJhe cows »nd the people lived all in oneipartmenr, chose rather to go home;tnd knowing the moon was to rise ailittle after midnight he sat along by therite, to'd them* manyva* fine story to[drive the time, and bade the wife ii»ak®ihe ben, to see how it might be : to saveicandle, she made it in the dark, directly20*on the ftoor, behind where they sat sha¬king; down two bottles of straw ; a calf*which chanced to be 1 ying on that place*and which the wife did not notice, w'asicovered with the straw, and the bedclothes spread over it. The most ofthe fandiy being in bed, the wife toldthem to go to bed also ; but Leper,knowing ct the calf, said, I’ll make mbed come to me on which the wife be«gan to pray for herself and all that wasin the house j so up he gets his el wand,,and gives a stroke on the bed, whichcaused the brute to rise, and not seeingwhere to go, it fell a crying, and turnedround, which set the whole house a roar¬ing out murder in their own tongue.Thegoodwife ran to the bed above thegoodman, and the whole family criedout, nht knowing what it was; but Le¬per «md his two lads whipt off the blank*cls, and the brute ran in among the rest:unperceived j then Leper lighted a can¬dle, and all of them Ootouc of bed,paidLeper for his work, and mme it lie pleas¬ed, and begged him to go away, andtake t!ie devil with him. So home hei went, but never was employed by that/wile any more.Leper hail a deal of the best customers, both initovrn and country ; so one time be hetd occasion **igo to the pari?>li of Incliinan to make a wedding-suit for a gentleman. After they were finished, he* asked drink-money to his lads, which the gentle-i man refused. Leper resolved to be even with him ;so he goes up to the hay-loft, where the groomslept, and takes his stockings, breeches, and jacket,i ieews thesn a.together, and stuft’s them full of hay,! intakes a head, puts a rope about the neck, and hangsit on a tree opposite to the laird’s window ; then||goes to the laird, and tells him that his groom hadnilianged himself, and that if lie would open hisMwindowl he would see him hanging ; the laird,.||ptruck with astonishment, knew not what to do.I'lLeper advised him to bury him privately. TheItaird ■ said lie had not a servant he could trust, so{pegged of Leper to do it. Leper refuses, tilt thai aird promi-ed him a load of meal ; then Leperpalls the hay out ef the groom’s clothes, goes and||;ets his load of meal, and sends it to Glasgow,sahen goes to the groom, and says hastily, ‘ Lad,yhy master is wanting thee,' so the lad runs in atwaste to see what his master wanted : tha,»ird uo sooner saw him opening the door, thani ie cry’d out, ‘ Avoid thee, Satan, avoid thee, Satan ;;be lad says, ‘Whats the matter, sir? What'a thetnatter ?' ‘ Did not you hang youwelf this mor-lisiujjr' ‘Lord farhid, said the lad. The laird22Mr*, if thou i)e an partUv crentarf, tale that tank»rd anil drinl,’ which he t.itl. Then ^av!i he Ufcts ma>ter, 4 Leper called me, np, ard ^aid >nn warsted tne in all ha'-te. 4 Ifo, ho, t'ay* the laird, Ifind out the story now; si I hjd Iveper I would rutwy eword thruegh him.' But Leper Letoie tha,Was away for Ga-pcw with his meal.Leper was in use to give his lads their S'irtdayffopprr, which obliged huts to stay fnuu the kui i,in the afternoon, he having .neither wife nor s#r|vant mnid > so one Snna-iy aftertreon,- as heconking his pot, John Mutkle Cheek and J.irtie:Puff anil Blaw, two cu j leers, having loX;'te z*than knowledge, came npo'ti him, and said, what'the matter, sir, too no tjtit to the kiik ? Leperplirtl, ! am rtadirg my l»ook, and cooking n>y pollwhich I titivsk is a work of nec.s-ity, TUTu mijJthe otte to the other, 4 Don t aiiBvrer that graci !fellow, well make him appear before his hotter jgo they took the kail pot, ai d' puts a staff thrcugljthe booL, and bears k to the clerk’s rhamltrLeper, who was never at a loss for invention. go« .to this Principal ot the1 college’s house, ndioel!htioir at home hut a ’ass roasting a leg of raultoiLeper says. My dear, will you go tntl bring me;.!,pint cf ale, and I II turn the spit till yon cchback. The la^s wa< no sooner gone, than lie runs '■way with the leu of mutteiu, which served h’s !at.*uil him for their supper. When the Princifcame liOH>e., be was nei;!<r to baud nor to hind 11was so angry ; so on Monday I;.- goes and makelcomplaint tei thic l.ord Provost, who sends two efilcers for Leper, who' came immediately.-■ Ml,Lord asked him how In dared to take awaytflmufion ? Lener ‘ Hotr cainff y#»r'ivilt-crs to tak<* away njy kail pot ? Im sure tin’"*a loss sia in making a pot full of kail, ifoan ioa»t-jng a i«*g of mutton, law makers should not tse la*»r'aki-is, *o I demand justice on the civilerr# !*si'1.8 pro«ost aaked him what justice he would have?f ays he. Make them carry the pot back again ; andI o the Prim ipal, a leg of mutton wtin'i make himi tnd me fall out ; so they were forced to carry the»ot back, and Leper caused the hoys to huzza af¬ter them to their disgrace.f Tut re was a barber who always plagued Leper,nd called (tin prick-the-lotise. I>per resolved toi « even with him so I e goes wr.d buys three ahrepi :eads, and sends for the barber, and told him thatrJntrc were three line Southland gentlemen just-|!jome to his hou'e, who mueh Win ted to be sliav-Ijo, and l.e assured him he would riceive sixpence1 nr eaeli one of them ;—this good news made thaIjpavev send <or a dram. Leper was still praisingI't.en for quiet good natnred gentlemen so lieperlitkes him to the bed where the slierp-lmvls layrijovered, and desired him to awaken them, for theyViould ju*t lie angry, or say an ill verd to him j|»e barber lifts the covering, and sees tie shcep-nleads, runs nut, cursing and swearing, and Leperraying after h in, sheep head barber.Il The burber res ’ved to be revenged on Leper,rf) when re was shaving Mess John, be tflls himtjiat Leptr was the diunkenest fellow in his pa-ash : so Mess John warns him tri tlie session,ujUper comes, and savs. What ilo you want with me,r? Cor.e away ‘ Leiier, says Mess John, I heal*W report of you j Mo sir, I am sure they wei«24■ot my friend* that t«)d yon that.—* Indeed, Iinformed yon are a drunkard.'—1 I a drunkard,—Tou have not a soberer man in your parish. Stop'•ir, I will tell you how I lead my life,—in theimorning I take a choppin of ale and a hit of bread),that I call my morning; for breakfast I generally:,take a herring and a choppin of ale, for I cannot#,sup brose like my lads; the herring makes me dryJ|«• at eleven hours, I taka a pint, and sometimes|three, chnppins ; at supper I take a bit of breadiand cheese, and a pint, and so go to bed.’ MewJohn says, * It’s extravagant, sir, it‘s excessive drink«jing, I allow you the one half of it for a quarter:•f a year.’ Says Leper, ‘111 try it, sir and cema:back and tell you. At the end of the quarter h«draws out his account, and goes to Mess Jobnrwho was setting with the elders in the session house,,and says, ‘ Sir, I have a demand on you ‘ On in*j*ir?* ‘Yes, on you, sir; Don’t you remember t®®!allowed me so much drintc for a quarter of a year,Iand I want the money. 4 Am I to pay your reckon*ing, Sir.’ ‘ You allowed it, ami if you won't pay it.I’ll take you before the Provost.' The ciders ad¬vised him to pay it, or he would be affronted ; f«Leper got the money. When he was at the door,he says, ‘ Sir, will you stand another quarter ?’•way, say* Mess John, and don t trouble me. Lep¬er says, I am sure you may, for I am always tvr*-penc* to yaur penny.UNIS.1