INTERESTING PARTICULARSOF THELAST MOMENTS,ANDOFMOSES M‘DONALD,WHO WASEXECUTEDAt Greenock, on the 5th June, 1812,For House-Breaking and Theft,GREENOCK:Printed by WILLIAM SCOTT,And S«W by TROMAS TO UNO, BahtUer.INTERESTING PARTICULARS, &c.ON Friday, 5th inst. Moses M‘Donald, sentenced tosuffer death at last assizes, was executed here pur¬suant to his sentence Early in the morning a gibbetwas erected and a platform raised on the square, in frontof the New Church, and placed in such a situation asio Reviewed from the three principal streets leading in¬to the square. Four companies of the Ayrshire militia,which had arrived from Paisley the day previous, (topreserve order) were stationed round the square, and,by stopping the different avenues, effectually preventeda union of the spectators. At about a quarter past twoo’clock the criminal was conducted from the prison (tothe inside of the railing in front of the Church, fromwhence the platform was raised) by a guard of soldiers,preceded by the Magistrates, Sheriff Substitute, mm;-sters, his father, brother, and sister, with a number ofthe gentlemen of the town, all attired in black. Theythen prayed and sung psalms three times, and about tenminutes past three o’clock he expressed his thanks tothe Magistrates and Clergy, for the kindness he had ex¬perienced ; he then took farewell, and ascended thescaffold, accompanied by the Rev. Mr. Bryan, with adegree of firmness we have never seen surpassed—the minister continued speaking with him while hestood on the drop, and had the rope adjoined—when he was ready, he let fall a handkerchief as asignal, on which the executioner let go the drop, butfrom the insufficiency of the rope, or two much of itbeing left slack, we cannot determine, the jerk it receiv¬ed, broke it, and he fell to the ground; the effect offeeling it then produced in the spectators cannot be des¬cribed. His sister, who had been standing near, ran tohim, assisted him up, and supported him into the Churchwhere he nearly fainted, but soon recovered, and repeat¬ed distinctly the 51st Psalm, 1 —15, and spoke withmuch firmness of his hope in the mercy of God throughChrist. He remained in the Church until the gibbet( 4 )was again adjusted, and a new rope obtained. He wasthen turned off at about 20 minutes before 4? o’clock,cut down about twenty minutes after -f, and depositedin a coffin by his father, brother, and sister, and buriedon the following evening. His behaviour in the prisonhere, and at the place of execution, was exemplary, andseemed to accord with his unhappy situation! As thiswas the first execution that ever took place at Greenoclt,we sincerely hope it may be the last, and that the recol¬lection of the source that produced such an awful spec¬tacle to the crowd assembled, and painful task to thosemore immediately charged with having the law put inexecution, may serve as a warning and admonition tothat part of the community who by their heedless or de¬termined course of life, render such dreadful examplesnecessary.The Magistrates, Clergy, &c. and those on whomthis ardous duty more particularly devolved, for the or¬der and regularity with which it was' conducted, and thesteadiness displayed by them in performing a dptyso re¬pugnant to the feelings of humanity, is the thanks ofevery class in the community deservingly due.We have been obligingly favoured with the followingaccount and reflections of this unhappy man, by two ofthe Clergymen who had attended him.On Friday last, Moses M'Donald, ryas executed herefor shopbreaking and theft. He had been tried and re¬ceived sentence of death in Glasgow ; but the Judgesthought it might add to the effect of the example to or¬der their, sentence to be put into execution in the placewhere the crime was committed. It was most just andnecessary that such iniquitous practices should be cheelc-ed by a striking example of the severity of the Law;and the public is greatly indebted to the vigilence andactivity of the Magistrates of Greenock, in detectingthe perpetrators and abettors of the crime for which thisunhappy man was condemned to death, and one of hiscompanions to banishment.( 5 )During his imprisonment here every proper indul¬gence was allowed him by the Magistrates, and muchkindness shown by many of the inhabitants of the place.The Ministers of the established Church and several ofthe dissenting Clergymen here were anxious to afford himinstruction and assistance in his spiritual duties, and vi¬sited him daily for that purpose.The last visit was the most painful of all to their feel¬ings. At one' o’clock on Friday, Mr. Steel and Dr.Gilchrist, (their Colleague Dr. Scott being absent onclerical duty) left the Council Chamber, where theyhad been to wait on the Magistrates, and went to theprison, where they were joined by Mr. Hercus, Mini¬ster of the Independant Congregation, and Mr. Bryan,Minister of the Methodist Congrcgration.On entering the cell of the prisoner, they found withhim his wife and three children, and one of the officersof the Town. His wife had placed herself at the upperend of the matrass, on which he lay fastened by the legto a strong iron bar, and held his head on her lap. This,said he, is my wife. She is an honest woman ; and hasbeen a good and dutiful wife to me, though I have usedher ill. Not one word did the poor woman utter. Insilept agony she clasped him to her breast and kissed hisforehead. He requested that the 44th Paraphrase“ Behold the Saviour on the Cross,”and the Sth Hymn,“ The hour of my departure’s comein the collection appointed by the Church of Scotland,should be sung. One of the Ministers prayed, and ano¬ther read a letter, wrote to two malefactors under sen¬tence of death by the Kev. James Harvey of the Churchof England.It was now two o’clock, and an order arrived for hisremoval from the cell, and for preparing him to be ledout to execution. Abou* twenty minutes past twro hewas brought out, and escorted to the Square, wdiere agibbet had been erected in front of the church.Here several portions of the psalms and paraphrases( <3 )were sung, and Mi. Hercus, Dr. Gilchrist, and Mr.Steel, prayed with him in succession. He then delibe¬rately thanked them for their instructions and prayers,and acknowledged his obligations to the humanity andkindness of the Magistrates. Upon which he mountedthe platform, and the two last mentioned ministers retir¬ed.During the whole of this awful transaction, the manhimself appeared perfectly firm and unmoved. InChristian charity, we should indulge the hope that hisfirmness was not merely the effects of a constitutional in¬sensibility, but was, at least in part, the effect of thattrust which he declared he had been led, by the wordand grace of God to repose in the ipercy of God in Je¬sus Christ.He is gone to his own place : and it belongs not tous to Judge ; though we would fondly hope that his re¬pentance was sincere, and his trust in mercy well founded.-God grant that this man’s dreadful end may have asalutary effect on the minds of the riotous and unprinci¬pled,and on the minds of all who are in danger of beingcorrupted and ruined by bad company.How deceitful is the heart of the sinner ! How willingto flatter itself with the hope of always escaping detec¬tion and punishment ! Because sentence against an evilwork is not executed, speedily his heart is fully set inhim to do evil. A man who has not the fear of Godmay receive repeated warnings in the punishment ofhis companions or in diseases or dangers which befallhimself, and his. conscience may smite him for his sins;but yet he will persist in his evil ways, until his fearcome as a desolation, and his destruction as a whirlwind.Oh, that men would choose. the fear of die Lord ! butfools hate knowledge and despise reproof. Therefore -shall they be filled with their own devises. Their veryprosperity shall destroy them.Such were some of the reflections which this unhap¬py man occasionally uttered in prison, often did he la-( 7 )meat the inscnaability with which He had treated thewarnings that Providence had given him ; and he de¬clared, that were he to obtain n free pardon, he couldnot tell whether he would not after all yield again evento the worst temptations of lust, or sloth, and of avarice.Let every one who even-allows himself with secret de¬sire, to contemplate the .possibility of robbing, or pilfer¬ing without detection, think well of this declaration ;for one act of dishonesty will lead him to another. Nay,let every slothful or dissipated person think well of thisdeclaration : for his vices lead naturally to acts of dis¬honesty ; and by acts is formed at last the habit. Thispoor man, in the prospect of death, seemed often to bedeeply impressed with the sense of his guilt ; he criedto God for mercy, and for the assistance of the HolySpirit to prepare him for eternity; and he appeared tolament with bitterness of heart his folly and wickedness;but yet, w'hen he thought of the opportunities of in¬struction which he had neglected, and of the warningswhich he had despised, he could not venture, either inprayer to God, or in conversation with his fellow crea¬tures, to say that, were his days to be prolonged, hewould avoid in future the sins which he thought thegrace of God had taught him to detest. What an aw¬ful lesson should this be to any one who thinks of anact of fraud, and flatters himself that, after securing thegain of that act, he will refrain from other or greater ini¬quities ! Ah, what is the profit of any iniquitous act,that a man should give for it his peace of mind, oreven risk the loss of his good name ? And whatprofit can ever compensate the unhappiness and thewretchedness of him who is exposed to the dangerof an ignominious death ? But though a man were se¬cured from that danger, w'hat madness is it to commitany act which shall debase and corrupt his w’hole cha¬racter, increase and exasperate his emnity to God, andexpose his immortal soul to a misery, w'hose horrors nolanguage can express, no imagination can conceive 1 Yetthis is the natural tendency of every kind of vice ; andvain is every warning to those who cast off the fear ofGod. Sqme men may be less exposed than others tothe temptations of avarice, or better guarded, by consi¬deration of worldly prudence,, against the commissionof such crimes as are punishable by the laws of civil so¬ciety ; but every one who lives without the fear of God,whatever be his external condition, must contractsome base habit or other, and is in danger, from his wantof right principles, of being seduced at last into actionwhich may bring him to shame. I may blame, saidM‘Dooald, my neglect of the Sabbath, I may blame myexcess in drinking, and I may blame the bad companywhich I kept; but this would be to begin at the wrongend } for all the things I have to blame, as procuringmy ruin, proceeded from this one cause—1 had not theFear of God.