INTERESTING'• LETTER/ ^ V ^FROMQUE3EM CAKOLIXKTOKING GEORGE SV,Written, and Delivered to His Majesty, ten daysbefore the Investigation into her Conduct abroadtook place in the House of Lords.cEtonbutg!):SHUNTED BY K. IHENZIES, XAWNMARKET, V6H THi;BOOK SELLERS IN TOWN AND COUNTRY*Price Twopence,0^6'DiNevJ^^-'THEQUEENS LETTERTOTHE KING.SIR,After the unparalleled and unprovokedpersecutions, which, during a series of years, has been,carried on against me under the name and authorityof your Majesty—and which persecution, instead ofbeing mollified by time, time has rendered only moreand more malignant and unrelenting—it is not with¬out a great sacrifice of private feeling that I now,even in the way of remonstrance, bring myself to ad¬dress this letter to your Majesty. But, bearing inmind that royalty rests on the basis of public good—«that to this paramount consideration all others oughtto submit—and aware of the consequences that mayresult from the present unconstitutional, illegal, andhitherto unheard-of-proceedings :—with a mind thusimpressed, I cannot refrain from laying my grievous' wrongs once more before your Majesty, in the hopethat the justice which your Majesty may, by evil-minded councillors, be still disposed to refuse to theclaims of a dutiful, faithful, and injured wife, youmay be induced to yield to considerations connectedwith the honour and dignity of your Crown, the sta¬bility of your Throne, the tranquillity of your domi¬nions, the happiness and safety of your just and loyalpeople, whose generous hearts revolt at oppression'4>'and cruelty, and especially when perpetrated by a'perversion and a mockery of the laws.A sense of what is due to my character and sex for¬bids me to refer minutely to tha real caases of ourdomestic separation, or to the numerous unmerited in¬sults offered me previously to that period; but, leavingto your Majesty to reconcile with the marriage vowthe act of driving, by such means; a wife from be¬neath your roof, with an infant in her arms, your Ma¬jesty will permit me to remind you that that act wasentirely your own—that the separation, so far frombeing sought, for by me, was a sentence pronouncedupon me, without any cause assigned, other than thatof your own inclinations, which, as your Majesty waspleased to allege, were not under your controul.Not to have felt, with regard to myself, chagrin atthis decision of your Majesty, would have arguedgreat insensibility to the obligations of decorum-S-notto have dropped a tear in the face of that belovedchild, whose future sorrows were then but too easy toforesee, would have marked me as unw orthy of thename of mother,—but, not to have submitted to itwithout repining, would have indicated a conscious¬ness of demerit, or a want of those feelings which be¬long to affronted and insulted female honour.The “ tranquil and comfortable society,” tenderedto me by your Majesty, formed in my mind but a poorcompensation for the grief occasioned by considering-the wound given to public morals in the fatal exampleproduced by the indulgence of your Majesty’s incli¬nations ; more especially when I contemplated thedisappointment of the nation, who had so munificentlyprovided for our union, who had fondly cherished suchpleasing hopes of happiness arising from that union,and who had hailed it with such affectionate and rap¬turous joy.But, alas ! even tranquillity and comfort were too5much for me to enjoy. From the very threshold ofyour Majesty’s mansion the mother of your child waspursued by spies, conspirators, and traitors, employed,encouraged, and rewarded to lay snares for the feet,and to plot against the reputation and life, of herwhom your Majesty had so recently and so solemnlyvowed to honour, to love, and to cherish..In withdrawing from the embraces of my parents,in giving my hand to the son of George the Third andthe heir-apparent to the British throne, nothing lessthan a voice from Heaven, would have made me fearinjustice or wrong of any kind. What, then, was my. . astonishment at finding that treasons against me hadbeen carried on and matured, perjuries against me hadbeen methodised and embodied, a secret tribunal hadbeen held, a trial of my actions had taken place, anda decision had been made upon those actions, withoutmy having been informed of the nature of the charge,or of the names of the witnesses; and what wordscan express the feelings excited by the fact, that this• proceeding was by the order of the father of mychild, and my natural as well as legal guardian andprotector ?Notwithstanding, however, the unprecedented con¬duct of that-tribunal—conduct which has since under¬gone, even in Parliament, severe and unanswered ani¬madversions, and which has been also censured in mi¬nutes of ti e Privy Council—notwithstanding the se-, , eoesy of the proceedings of this tribunal—notwith¬standing the strong temptation to the giving of falseevidence against me before it—notwithstanding thatthere was no opportunity afforded me of rebuttingthat evidence—notwithstanding all these circumstances,so decidedly favourable to my enemies—even this se¬cret tribunal acquitted me of all crime, and therebypronounced my pi-incipal accusers to have been guiltyof the grossest perjury. But it was now (after the6tfvered that the nature oi the tri«render false swearing before itn .1! And thus, at the suggestion\r Majesty, had been created, to takec' oid try my conduct, a tribunal compe-■ mister oaths, competent to examine wit*lie - es 4>u oath, competent to try, competent to acquitor condemn, and competent, moreover, to screen thosewho had sworn falsely against me from suffering thepains and penalties which the law awards to wilfuland corrupt perjury. Great as my indignation natur-lly must have been at this shameful evasion of lawand justice, that incignation was lost in pity for himwho could lower his princely plumes to the dust, bygiving his countenance and favour Lo the most conspi¬cuous of those abandoned and notorious perjurers.Still there was one whose upright mind nothingcould warp, in whose breast injustice never found aplace, whose hand was always ready to raise the un¬fortunate, and to rescue the oppressed. While thatgood and gracious father and sovereign remained inthe exercise of his royal functions, his unoffendingdaughter-in-law had nothing to fear. As long as theprotecting hand of your late ever-beloved and ever-lamented father was held over me, I was safe Butthe melancholy event which deprived the nation of theactive exertions of its virtuous King, bereft me offriend and protector, and of all hope of future tran¬quillity and safety. To calumniate your innocentwife was now the shortest road to royal favour—andto betray her was to lay the sure foundation of bound..less riches and titles of honour. Before claims likethese, talent, virtue, long services, your own personalfriendships, your royal engagements, promises andpledges, written as well as verbal, melted into air.Your Cabinet was founded on this basis. You took toyour councils men, of whose persons, as well as whose7principles, you had invariably expressed the strongesti dislike. The interest of the nation, and even yourown feelings, in all other respects, were sacrificed tof the gratification of your desire to aggravate my suffer-i ings and insure my humiliation. You took to youri councils and your bosom men whom you hated, whoseabandonment of, and whose readiness to sacrifice me,were their only merits, and whose power has been ex¬ercised in a manner, and has been attended with con¬sequences, worthy of its origin. From this unprinci¬pled and unnatural union have sprung the manifold'I evils which this nation has now to endure, and whichpresent a mass of misery and of degradation, accom¬panied with acts of tyranny and cruelty, rather thanhave seen which inflicted on his industrious, faithful,and brave people, your royal father would haveperished at the head of that people.When to calumniate, revile, and betray me, becamethe sure path to honour and riches, it would have beenstrange indeed if calumniators, revilers, and traitors,had not abounded. Your Court became much less ascene of polished manners and refined intercourse,than of low intrigue and scurrility. Spies, Bacchana¬lian tale-bearers, and foul conspirators, swarmed inthose places which had before been the resort of so¬briety, virtue, and honour. To enumerate all the va¬rious privations and mortifica^pns which 1 had to en¬dure—all the insults that were wantonly heaped uponme, from the day of your elevation to the Regency tothat of my departure for the continent—would be todescribe every species of personal offence that can beoffered to, and every pain short of bodily violence thatcan be inflicted on, any human being. Bereft ofparent, brother, and father-in-law, and my husbandfor my deadliest foe—seeing those who have promisedto support brought by rewards to be amongst my ene¬mies—restrained from accusing my foes in the face of, 8the world, out of regard for the character of the fatherof my child, and from a desire to prevent her happi¬ness from being disturbed—shunned from motives ofselfishness by those who were my natural associates—living in obscurity, while I ought to have been thecentre of all that was splendid:—thus humbled, I hadone consolation left—the love of my dear and onlychild. To permit me to enjoy this was too great anindulgence. To see my daughter—to fold her in myarms—to mingle my tears with hers—to receive hercheering caresses, and to hear from her lips assurancesof never ceasing love—thus to be comforted, consoled,upheld, blessed, was too much to be allowed me.Even on the slave mart the cries of “Oh ! my mother,my mother! Oh ! my child, my child !” have prevent¬ed a separation of the victims of avarice. Hut youradvisers, more inhuman than the slave-dealers, re¬morselessly tore the mother from the child.Thus bereft of the society of my child, or reducedto the necessity of embittering her life by struggles topreserve that society, I resolved on a temporary ab¬sence, in the hope that time might restore me to herin. happier days. Those days, alas! were never tocome. To mothers—and those mothers who havebeen suddenly bereft of the best and most affectionateand only daughters—it belongs-to estimate my suffer¬ings and my wrongs. Swh mothers will judge of myaffliction upon hearing of the death of my child, andupon my calling to recollection the last look, the lastwords, and all the affecting circumstances of our sepa¬ration. Such mothers will see the depth of my sor¬rows. Every being with a heart of humanity in itsbosom will drop a tear, in sympathy with me. Andwill not the world, then, learn with indignation thatthis event, calculated to soften the hardest heart, wastire signal for new conspiracies, and indefatigable ef¬forts for the destruction of this afflicted mother? YourftMajesty had torn my child from me—you had depriv¬ed me of the power of being at hand to succour her—•you had taken from rne tlie possibility of hearing hes^ast prayers for her mother—you saw me bereft, for¬lorn, and broken-hearted—and this was the momer.t-you chose for redoubling your persecutions.Let the world pass its judgment on the constitutingof a commission in a foreign country, consisting of in¬quisitors, spies, and informers, to discover, collect, andarrange matters of accusation against your wife, with^out any complaint having been communicated to her >l-st the world judge of the employment of ambassador*hi such a business, and of the enlisting of foreigncourts in the onterprize: but on the measures whichhave been adopted to give final effect to these preli¬minary proceedings it is for me to speak ; it-is for meto remonstrate with your Majesty ; it is for me to pro¬test ; it is for me to apprize you of my determination.I have always demanded a fair trial. This is whatI now demand, and this is refused me. ^Instead of afair trial, I am to be subjected to a sentence by theParliament, passed in the shape of a law. Againstthis I protest, and upon the following grounds:—The injustice of refusing me a clear and* distinocharge, of refusing me the names of the witnesses, ofrefusing me the names of the places where the allegedacts have been committed; these are sufficiently flag*-rant and revolting; but it is against the constitution ofthe Court itself that I particularly object, and that Imost solemnly protest.Whatever maybe theprecedeuts as to Bills of Painsand Penalties, none of them, except those relating tothe Queen af Henry the Eighth, can apply here; forhere your Majesty is the Plaintiff. Here it is intendedby the Bill to do what you deem good, and to do megreat harm. You are therefore a party, and the. onlycomplaining party.10You Have made your complaint to the House 01lords. You have conveyed to this House written do¬cuments sealed up. A secret Committee of the Househave examined these documents. They have report¬ed that there are grounds of proceeding; and then theHouse, merely upon that report, have brought forwarda Bill containing the most outrageous slanders on me,and sentencing me to divorce and degradation.The injustice of putting forth this Bill to the worldfor six weeks before it is even proposed to afford mean opportunity of contradicting its allegations, is too'manifest not to have shocked the nation ; and, indeed,the {proceedings even thus far are such as to convinceevery one that no justice is intended me; But if none'of these proceedings, if none of these clear indicationsof a determination to do me wrong had taken place, Ishould see, h the constitution of the House of LordsHself, a certainty that 1 could expect no justice at itshands.Your Majesty’s ministers have advised this prosecu¬tion ; they are responsible for the advice they give;they are liable to punishment if they fail to makegoodtheir charges; and not only are they part of my judges,but it is they who have brought in the bill; and it istoo notorious that they have always a majority in theHouse ; so that without any other, here is ample proofthat the House will decide in favour of the bill, and,of course, against me. ,But further, there are reasons for your Ministers ha¬ving a majority in this case, and which reasons do notapply to common cases. Your Majesty is the Plain¬tiff ; to you it belongs to appoint and to elevate Peers.Many of the present Peers have been raised to thatdignity by yourself, and almost the whole can be, atyour will and pleasure further elevated. The far great¬er part of the Peers, hold, by themselves and families^effices, pensions, and other emoluments, solely at the■will and pleasure of your Majesty, and these, of course,your Majesty can take away whenever you please.There are more than four-fifths of the Peers in thissituation, and there are many of them who might thusbe deprived of the far better parts of their incomes.If, contrary to all expectation, there should be foundin some Peers, likely to amount to a majority, a dis«.position to reject the bill, some of these Peers may beordered away to their ships, regiments, governments,and other duties; and, which is an equally alarmingpower, new Peers may be created for the purpose, andgive their vote in the decision. That your Majesty'*ministers would advise these measures, if found neces¬sary to render their prosecution successful, there canbe very little doubt; seeing that they have hithertostopped at nothing, however unjust or odious.To regar d such a body as a Court of Justice wouldbe to calumniate that sacred name: and forme to sup¬press an expression of my opinion on the subject wouldbe tacitly to lend myself to my own destruction, as wellas to an imposition upon the nation and the world.In the House of Commons I can discover no bettergrounds of security. The power of your Majesty’sministers is the same in both Houses; and your Ma¬jesty is well acquainted with the fact, that a majorityof this House is composed of persons placed in it bythe Peers, and by your Majesty’s Treasury.It really gives me pain to state these things to yourMajesty; and if it gives your majesty pain, I beg thatit may be observed and remembered that the statementhas been forced from me. I must either protest againstthis mode of trial, or by tacitly consenting to it, suffermy honour to be sacrificed. No innocence can securethe accused if the Judges and Jurors be chosen by theaccuser; and if I were tacitly to submit to a tribunalof this description, I should be instrumental in my owndishonour.■S’On these gromuls I protest against this species <oftrial. I demand a trial in a court where the Jurors aretaken impartially from amongst the people, and wherethe proceedings are open and fair. Such a trial l court,and to no other will I willingly submit. If your Ma¬jesty persevere in the present proceedings, 1 shall,even in the Houses of Parliament, face my accusers ;but I shall regard any decision they may make againstme as not in the smallest degree reflecting on my ho¬nour ; and I will not, except compelled by actual force,submit to any sentence which shall not be pronouncedby a Court of Justice.I have now frankly laid before your Majesty a staite-ment of my wrongs, and a declaration of my viewsand intentions. You have cast upon me every slur towhich the female character is liable, instead of loving,honouring, and cherishing me, agreeably to your so¬lemn vow, you have pursued me with hatred and scorn,and with all the means of destruction. You wrestedfrom me my child, and with her my -only comfort andconsolation. You sent me sorrowing through thewoiid, and even in my sorrows pursued me with un¬relenting persecution. Having left me nothing butmy innocence, you would now, by a mockery of Jug-ice, deprive me oven of the reputation of possessingthat. The poisoned bowl and the poniard are meansmore manly than perjured witr.r sses and partial tri¬bunals; and they are less cruel, inasmuch, as life isless valuable than honour. If my life would have sa¬tisfied your Majesty, you should have had it on thesole condition of giving me a place in the same tombwith my child: but, since you would send me dis¬honoured to the grave, I will resist the attempt withall the means that it should please God to give me.(Signed) CAROLINE, R-Brcnden urgh House, August 7tK 1820,