IMPORTANT PASSAGES INTHE EIFEOFJlKansie W^awch,TAILOR IN DALKEITH.For a tailor is a man, a man, a man,And a tailor is a man. Old Song.lTb^? OF Sffm.AwnDALKEITH: OF SCOTLAND'FMNTED BY DAVID LYLE.. r • • i;<* ■■■.' sMt#-1" • 1.v,r K1 JU- w.t -ioiii;-1 " ■ •"- ■' ,. ;r.'. [ YK. ■PASSAGES IN THEILife of Mansie WaucliuCOMING INTO THE WORtn.1 have no distinct recollection of the thing tny-self, yet there is every reason to believe that f v«Ushorn on the loth of October, iy&5, in th.it lit tiehouse, standing by itself, not many yards from tlnjeast nost side of the Flesh-Market Gate, Dalkeith.My eyes opened on the light about two o'clock in adark and tainy morning. Long was it spoken aboutthat something gre.it and mysterious would happenon that dreary night; as the car, after washing herface, gaed mewing about., with her tail swvehsg be¬hind her like a ramrod; and a corbie, from theDuke's woods, tumbled down Jamie Elder's lam,when he had set the little still a-going—givingthem a terrible fright as they took it for the dweviiand then for an exciseman—an ! fell with a gta at'cloud of soot, and a loud skraigh into the emptykail pot.The first thing that 1 have any ch r ■ memory of,was my being carried out on y amities houhier,with a leather c.u; tied under my chin, to see theFair Race. Oh! hut it was a grand sight ' 1 ■ *v.iread since then the story of .* iaddiu's vVon i .Lamp hut this heat it al) to ; ' ;k<. There w ... .long row of tsbl s, covered with carpets of h. :..i.patterns, heaped from one eel to the other wonshoes of every kind and size, some with polish, dsoles, and some glittering .vith sparrihles and curld y -heels; and little red worsted bools for bairns, withhlueaud white edgings, huttriiiif like strings of flow4ers up the posts at each end ;—and then what acollection of luggies ! the whole meal in the marketsacks on a Thursday did not seem able to fill them;and horn spoons, green and black freckled, withshanks clear as amber,—and timber caups,—andivory egg-cups of every pattern. Have a care, of us!all the eggs in Smeaton dairy might have foundresting places for their doups in a row. As for thegingerbread, I shall not attempt a discription.Sixpenny and shilling cakes, in paper, tied withskinie; and roundabouts, and snaps, brown andwhite quality, and parliaments, on stands coveredwith calendered linen, clean from the fold. Topass it was just impossible ; it set my teeth a-water¬ing, and I skirled like mad, until I had a gildedlady thurst into my little nieve ; the whichafter admiring for a minute, T applied my teeth toand of the head I made no bones: so that in lessthan no time, she had vanished, petticoats and all,no trace of her being to the fore,, save and exceptlong treacly daubs, extending east and west fromear to ear, and north and south from cape neb ofthe nose to the extremity of beardyland.But what, of all things, attracted my attention onthat memorable day, was the show of cows, sheepand horses, mooing, baaing, and neighefing; andthe race—that was best! Od, what a sight!—wewere jammed in the crowd ofauld wives, with theirtoys and shining ribbons; and carter lads, withtheir blue bonnets; and young wenches, carryinghome their fairings in napkins, as mtiekle as wouldhold their teetJi going for a month ;—there scarce ■ly could be muckle for love, when there Was somuch for the stomach;—and men with woodenlegs, and brass virls at the end of them, play ing onthe fiddle,—and a bear that roared, and 1'ancedon its hind feet, with a muzzled month,—and Punchand Polly,— and puppie-shows; arid ti<air than I cantell,— when up ea 5 nr^oji ; i she ^’,n (inpr-post.I shall never forget the bonny <lt esses of the i itiefs.One had a napkin tied round his iwith theflaps fleeing behind him ; and his ca t tails werecurled up into a hig hump behind ; it was so tightbuttoned ye wadn thought he could have breathed.His corduroy trowsers (. uch like as 1 have oftensiiu-e made to growingcnllants) were tied round hisankles with a string! and he had a nirty spur onone shoe, which I saw a man take; ofl to lend himSave us! how lie polled the beast’s head by thebridle, and flapped up and down on the saddle whenlie tried a canter ! The second one had on a blackvelvet huutingcap, and bis coat stripped. I wonder be was not feared of canid, hU shirt being likea richke, and his nether nankeens hut thin for suchweather ; hut he was brave lad; and sorrow w< rethe folks for him, when he fell off in taking owersharp a turn, by which auld Pullen, the bell lingerwlia was holding the post, was made to conn thecreels and got a bloody nose.—Arid—but the I- -twas a wearyfid one ! He was all life, and glegas an eel. Up and down be went : and up and dou ngaed the beast on its hind-legs and its fore legs,funking like mad;yet tho'hewas not almon thirte ,or fourteen at most, he did not cry out for helpmore than tive or six times, butgrippit at the manewith one hand , and at the back of the saddle « 1M1the other, till daft fiobie, the hostler at tile stablesclaught hold of the beast by the head, and oil t heyset. The young hirkie had neither hat nor slmonhut he did not spare the stick ; round arid roii;: ithey flew like da t. Ye would have thoneht rhe:reen would haveloupen out. and loudly all the crowdwere hurraing, when young hatless came up ‘ore-most, standing in tin; stirrups, the long stic: be¬tween bis teeth, and his while hair fleeing behindhim in the wind like streamers on a frosty uiy;ht.6CALF-LOVE.The lonp and tl\e short is, tlrtit 1 was sent toschool, where I learned to read and s|»ell. makinggreat ( regress in the Single’s and Mother's Carritch.Na, what is more, few could fickle me in the Biide,being mostly aide to spell it all over, save the secondof Ezra and tin1 seventh of Nehemi.-di, vhieh theDominie himself could never read through twice inthe same way.Mv father, to whom 1 was born, like Isaac toAbraham, in his old age, was an elder in the ReliefKir k, respected by all for his canny and douce be¬haviour, and, as I have observed before, a weaverto bis trade. The cot and the kail yard were hisown, and Into been nuld granfaitber’s ; but still behad to ply the shuttle from Monday to Saturday, tokeep all r ight and tight. The thrums were a per¬quisite of my own, which 1 uiffered wiib the gundy-wife for Gibraltar rock, cut-throat, gib, or hulls-eyes.Having come into the world before my time, andbeing of a pale face and delicate make, Naturenever could have intended me for the naval or mili¬tary line, or for any robustious trade or professionwhatsoever. No, no, I never liked fighting in mylife ; peace was aye in my thoughts. When therewas any riot in the streets, I tied, and scouggedmyself at the chiimley-lug as quickly as I dowed ;and, rather then double a nieve, to a school-fellow,{ pocketed many shabby •epithets, got my paikes,and took the coucher's blow from laddies that couldhardly reach up to my waistband.Just after I was put to my ’prenticesjiip, havingmade free choice of the tailoring trade, 1 had a ter¬rible stonnd of calf-love. Never shall I forget it.I was growing up, long and lank as a willow-vvand.Brawns to my legs there were none, as my trowsers7i>f othfr years too visi' ly effected to -how. Thelong yellow ioiir husig <1 wti, like o flax wig, thalength of my lantern jaws, which looked, r-otwith¬standing' my vapis'ss and stiff ajnmtite,' as if <•: ( ngand th y iiad nroken hj» acqnaittlat'cesl.ip.blue j icU t M'enie . in the sleeves to have |ii,ked aquariei w.th the w, t.-. and had retreated to a t dtbelow the elhir s. 'I tie lianncii-hutttttis^ on il'e ro:i-trary appear* d to have taken a strong liking »*. thwshoulder-, a little below which the\ show, d theirtarnished hriglitm ss. At the middle of the b. ekthe tails terminated leaving the well-worn rear ofmy corduroys, like a lull moon seen through a darkhaze. Oh ! but I must have been a bunny lad.My first flame was the minister's la-sie. ,• •-«, aljuxom and forward queen, twoor three yeais o'hlerthan myself. I u-e.d to sit looking at her in tks>kirk, itnd felt a droll confu-iou wiien our et n met.It di'led through my heart like a <lai t, and T look¬ed down at my psalm-hook sheepish and hi -ring.Fain would 1 have spoken to her. hut, it would ootdo ; my courage aye failed me at the pinch • houghshe whiles gave me a smile when she passed me.She used to go to the well every night, with hertwa stoops, to draw water after the manner of tfca#Israelites at gloaming; to I thought of wate.hiu. togive her the two apples which 1 had ear. led io mypouch for more than a week for that purpose. Howshe laughed when I sfappit them into her hand,andbrushed by without speaking? I stood at the ntt.miof the clo-e listening, and heard her laughing til! shawas like to split. My heart dap flapp t in my hreastlike a pair of fanners, it was a moment of heaven,-y hope; hut, 1 saw Jamie f-oom, the hla. k-mith,who 1 aye jealous* d w as my rival, coming down tothe well. I saw her give him one of tlie ap des; amibearing hint say with a loud guffaw, “ VVtiere i- thetailor?” I took to my heel*, and never stopped nil8I found myself on the little stool by the fireside*and the hamely sound of my mother’s wheel bum-humming in my lug, like a gentle lullaby.Every noise 1 heard flustered me, but I calmed intime, though 1 went to my bed without my supper.When I was driving out the gaislings to the grasson the next morn, who Mas it my ill fate to meetbut the blacksmith, “ On, Mansie,” said JamieCoom, “ are ye gaun to take me for your best man ?I hear you are to be cried in the kirk on Sunday ?”Me !” answered I, shaking and staring.“ Yes !”said he, “ Jess the minister’s maid told melast night, that you had been giving up your nameat the manse. Ay, it’s ower true'—for she showedme the apples ye gied her in a present. This is abonny story, Mansie, my man, and you only at yourprenticeship yet.” ^Terror and despair had struck me dumb. I stoodus still and as stiff as a web of buckram. Mytongue was tied, and I could not contradict himJamie faulded his arms, and gaed away whistling,turning every now and then his sooty face over hisshoulder, and mostly sticking his tune, as he couldnot keep his mouth screwed for laugliing. WhatMould 1 not have given to have laughed to !There was no time to be lost; this w as the Satur¬day. The next rising sun would shine on the Sab¬bath. Ah, w'hat it case I was in ! I could mostlyhave drowned myself, had I not been frighted.What could I do ? My love had vanished like light¬ning : but oh, I was in a terrible gliff! Instead ofgundy, I sold my thrums to Mrs Walnut for a pen¬ny, with which I bought at the counter a sheet ofpaper and a pen ; so that in the afternoon I wroteout a letter to the miidster, telling him what I hadbeen given to hear, and begging him, for the sake ofmercy, not to believe Jess’s word, as I was notableto keep a wife, and as she was a leeing gipsy.gPUSHING my fortune.The days of the years of my ’prenticeship havingglided eanfiily over on the working-board of my re-s ected iraister, James Hosey, where I sat workingiross-legged like a busy bee, in the true spirit of in¬dustrious contentment, T found myself at the endof the seven year, so weil instructed in the tailor¬ing trade, to which I had paid a near-sighted at-tintioa, that, without more ado, I girt myself roundabout with a proud determination of at once cuttingmy mother’s apron string, and venturing to go with¬out a hold. Thinks I to myself “ faint lieart neverwon fail- lady;” so, taking my stick in my hand, f• set out towards Kdinburgh, as brave as a Hielanderin search of a journeyman’s place. I may set itdown to an especial providence, that I found one,on the very first (lay, to my heart’s content in byat the Grassmarket, where I stayed for the space ofsix calendar months.Had it not been from a real sense of the duty Iowed to my future employers, whomsoever theymight he, in making myself a first-rate hand in thecutti g, shaping, and sewingdine, I would not havefound courage in my breast to have helped me outthrough such a long and dreary time.Never let us repine, h-nvsomever, but considerthat all is ordered for the best! The sons of the pa¬triarch Jacob found out their brother Joseph in aforeign land, and where they least expected it : so itwas here—even here where my heart was sickeningunto death, from my daily and nightly thoughtsbeing as bitter as gall—that I fell in with the great¬est blessing of my life, Nanse Cromie !In the flat below our workshop lived Mrs Whit-terraick, the wife of Mr. Whitterraick, a dealer inhens and hams in the poultry market, who comingfrom the Lauder mdghbourhood had hired a bit10wencli of n lassie that was to follow them r mo tf.eterm. And who think ye should this lassie he, bn*Nanse Cromie, afterwards, in the course of a kindprovidence, the honoured wife of my bosom, andthe mother of bonny Benjie.In going up and down tin* stairs,—it being a com¬mon entry, ye observe—me maybe going down withmy, every day hat on to my dinner, and she comingup, carrying a stoup of wa'er, or half a-pound ofpouijjered butter on a plate, with a piece of paperthrown over it,— we frequently met half-way, and,bad to s'and >ti!l to let one another pass. Nothingcame of these forgetiierings, hovvsomever, for amonth or two, she being as shy and modest as shewas bonny, with her dean demity short gown, andsnow-white morning mutch, to say nothing of hercheriy tnou, and her glancing ecu; and me uncodouific in making up to strangers. We could notb, ip, nevertheless, to take aye a stoun look of eachother in passing; and I was a gone man, bewitchedout of my seven senses, falling from my daes, los¬ing my stomach, mid over the lugs in love, threew eeks and some odd days before ever a single sylla¬ble passed between us.if ever a man loved, and loved like mad, it wasme, Mansie Wauch,—and 1 take no shame in theconfession ; but, kenning it all in the course of na¬ture, declare it openly and courageously in the faceof the wide world. Let them laugh who like ; hon¬est folk, 1 pity them ;—such know not the pleasuresof virtuous affection. It is not in corrupted, sinfulhearts that the fire of true love can ever burn clear.Alas, and ohon oriel they lose the sweetest, com¬pletes!, dearest, truest, pleasure that this world hashi store lor its children. They know not. the blessto meet, that makes the embrace of separation bit¬ter. They never dreamed the dreams that makeawakening to the morning light unpleasant. They11never felt the raptures that can dirl like dartsthrough a man’s soul from a woman’s ee- Theynever tasted the honey that dwells on a woman'slip, sweeter than yellow marygolds to the bee; orfretted under the fever of bless that glows throughthe frame on pressing the hand of a suddenly met,and fluttering sweetheart. But tnts-tuts—hech-how ! my day has long since past; and this is stuffto drop from the lips of an auld fool. Nevertheless,forgive me, friends: 1 cannot help all-powerfulnature.Nanse’s taste being like my own, we amused oneanother in abusing great cities; and it is curioushow soon I learned to be up to trap—I mean in anhonest way; for, when site said she was wearyingthe very heart out of her to he home again toLauder, which, she said, was her native and thetrue land of Goshen, I spoke back to her by way ofanswer—“ Nancy my dear,” says I, “ believe methat the real land of Goshen is out at Dalkeith ;and if ye’ll take up house wi’ mo, and enter into away of doing, 1 daursay in a while ye'll come tothink so too.”What will yon say there ? Matters were by-and-by settled full tosh between us; and though themeans of both parties were small, we were young,and able and willing to help one another. Fortwo three days, I must confess, after Nanse, andme found onrseKes in the comfortable situation ofman and wife, 1 was a wee dowie and desponding,thinking we were to have a numerous small familyand where work was to come from ; hut no soonerwas my signed nailed up, with four iron haudfastsby Johnny Hammer, painted in black letters, on ablue ground, with a picture of a jacket on one sideand a pair of shears on the other,—and my shopdoor opened to the public with a wheen ready¬made waistcoats, gallowses, leathercaps, and Kil-marnock cowls, hung up at the window, than hi!^;ness flowed in upon us in a perfect torrent. Fii >tone came in for his measure, and then another ; awife came in for a pair of red worsted boots for herbairn, but would not take them for they had not bluefringes. A bare-headed lassie, hoping to be hansel,threw down twopence, and asked tape at three yardsa half penny. The minister sent ati old black coatbeneath bis maid’s arm, prinnedup in a towel, to getdocked in the tails down into a jacket; which 1trust I did to his entire satisfaction, making it fitto a hair. The Duke's butler himself patronisedme, by sending me a coat which was all hair powderand ponuito, to get a new neck put to it.An wonder than vve attracted customers, for oursign was the prettiest ye ever saw, though thejacket, was not just so neatly painted, as for somesand-blifid creatures not to take it for a goose. Idaresay there were fifty half-naked bairns glowringUieir een oat of their heads at it, from morning tillnight; and, after they all were gone to their beds,both Nntise and me found ourselves so proud of ournew situation in life, that we slipedout in the darkby ourselves, and bad a prime look at it with alantern.MANSIE WAUCH’s FIRST AND FAST PLAA".•Muny a time and often had i heard of play-acting,and of players making themselves kings and (jiieens,and saving a great many wonderful tilings; but fhad never before an opportunity of making mvsella witness to the truth of.these hearsays. So Maister(ilen, being as fu’ of nonsense, and as fain to havehi- curiosity gratified, we took upon us the stoutresolution to gang out thegither, he offering totreat me, and i determined to run the risk of'sinister Wiggie, our minister’s rebuke, for the13transgression, hoping it would make na lasting im¬pression on his mind, being for the first and onlytime. Folks shouldna at a’ times be ower scru¬pulous.After paying our money at the door, never, whileI live and breathe, will I forget, what we suav andheard that night ; it just looks to me, by a' theworld, when I think on’t, like a fairy dream. Theplace was crowded to the ee, Maister Glen and mehaving nearly got our ribs dung in, before we fanda seat, and them beliint were obliged to mount theback benches to get a sight. Right to the fore handof us was a large green curtain, some five or sixells wide, a guid deal the waur of the wear, havingseen service through two or three simmers, andJustin the front of it were eight or ten penny candles,stuck in a board fastened to the ground, to let ussee the players’ feet like, when they came on thestage, and even before they came on the staee, forthe curtain being scrimpit in length, we saw legsand feet moving behind the scenes very neatly,while twa blind fiddlers, they had brought withthem, played the bonniest ye ever heard. Odd, the^very music was worth a sixpence of itsell.The place, as I said before, was choke full, justto excess, so that ane could scarcely breathe. In¬deed I never saw ony pairt sae crowded, not evenat a tent-preaching, when Mr Roarer was givinghis discourses on the building of Solomon’s Temple.We were obligated to have the windows openedfor a mouthful of fresh air, the barn being as closeas a baker’s oven, my neighbour and me fanningour red faces with our hats to keep us cool, and,though all were half stewed, we had the worst o’t,the toddy we had ta’en having fomented the bloodof our bodies into a perfect fever.Just at the time that the twa blind fiddlers wereplaying the Downfall of Paris, a hand-bell rang. I4and up goes the green curtain, being bauled to tbeceiling, us I observed wi' t.Iie tail o’ jny ee, by abirkie at the side that had baud o’ a rope. So,on the .i usic stopping and all becoming as still asthat you might have heard a pin fall, in comes adecent old gentleman, at Ids leasnre, wed powerejl,wi’ an auld-fashioned coat and( waistcoat wi' flappockets, brown breeches, with buckles at the knees,and silk .stockings, with red gushets on a blueground. I never saw a man in sic distress; hestarnpit about, and better stampit about, (biddingthe end of bis staff on the ground, and imploringall the powers of heaven and yeartli to help him tofind out his run-awa’ daughter, that had deoarnpitwi' some neerdowell loon of a half-pay captain,that keppit her in his arms frae her bed-roomwindow, up twa pair o' stairs. Eveiy father andhead of a family maun hae felt for a man in hissituation, thus to he rubbit.of ids dear bairn, andan only daughter too, as he tell’t us ower and ovveragain, as the saut saut tears ran gushing down hiswithered face, and he aye blew Ids nose on hisclean callendered pocket napkin. But, ye ken, thething was absurd to suppose, that we should keuony thing about the matter, having never seeneither him or his daughter between the een afore,and no kenning them by head mark; so, thoughwe sympathised with him, as folks ought to do witha fellow-creature in affliction, we thought it best tobaud our tongues, to see what might cast up betterthan he expected. So out he gaed stumping at theither side, determined, he said, to find them out,though lie should follow them to the world's end,Johnny Groat’s House, or something to that effect.Hardly was Ids hack turned, .and amaist beforeye could cry Jack Robison, in comes the birkie andthe very young ieddy theauld gentleman described,arm and arm thegether, smoodging and lauehing15like daft. Dog on it, it was a sjiameless piece ofbusiness. As true as death, before all the crowd offolk, he pat his arm round her waist, and caad herhis sweetheart, and love, and dearie, and darling,and every thing that is sweet. If they had beencourting in a doss taiegether, on a Friday night,they cntddna hae said mair to ane anither, or gaengreater lengths. I thouglit sic shame to he an ee-witness to sic on-goings, that I was obliged at lastto hand up my hat afore my face and look down,though, for a’ that, the yung lad, to be sic a black¬guard as his conduct showed, wasweil enough fauredand had a guid coat on his back, wi’ double-giltbuttons, and fashionable lapells, to say little o’ avery weil-made pair of buckskins, a I'utle the wauro' the wear to he sure, hut which, if they had beencleaned, would hae looked amaist as good as new.How they had come, we never could learn, as weneither saw chaise nor gig ; but, from Ids havingspurs on Ids boots, it is mair than likely that theyhad lighted at the back door of the barn frae ahorse, she riding on a pad behmt him, may be withher hand round Ids waist.The faither lookit to be a rich auld bool, haitbfrom liis manner of speaking and the rewards heseemed to offer for the apprehension of Ids daugh¬ter; but, to he sure, when so many of us werepresent that had an equall right to the spulzie, itwad na be a great deal a thousand pounds whendivided, still it was worth the looking after; so wejust bidit a wee.Things were brought to a bearing, whosotnever,sooner than either themsells, I daur say, or onybodyelse present seemed to lia.e the least glimpse of;for. just in the middle of their fine going-on, thesound of a coming fit was heard, and the lassietaking guilt to her,' cried out, “ Hide me, hide me,for the sake of gudeaess, for yonder comes my oldfather!”Nae sooner said than done. In he stapjht herinto a closet; and, after shutting1 the door on her.he sat down upon a chair, pretending to be asleepin a moment The auld faither came bouncing1 in,and seeing the fellow as sound as a tap, he ran forrirand gaed him sich a shake, as if he wad hae shookenhim a’ sundry, which sune made him open his eenas fast as he had steekit them. After blackguard¬ing the chield at no allowance, cursing him up hilland down dale, and caaing him every name but agentleman, he haddit his staff ower his crown, andgripping him by the cuff o’ the neck, askit him whathe had made o’ his daughter. Never since I wasborn did I ever see sich brazen-faced impudence iThe rascal bad the brass to say at anee, that behadnrt, seen word or wittens o’ his daughter for amonth, though mair than a hundred folk sitting inbis company had seen him dauting her with hisarm round her jimpy waist, not five minutes be¬fore. As a jpan, as a father, as an elder of ourkirk, my corruption was raised, for 1 aye hatedleeing, as a puir cowardly sin, and an inbreak onthe ten commandments : and I fand my neebourMr Glen, fidgetting on the seat as weel as me ; soI thocht, that whaever spoke first wad hae the bestright to he entitled to the reward; whereupon,just as he was in the act of rising up, I took theword out of his mouth, saying, “ Dinna believe him,auld gentleman, dinna believe him, friend; he’stelling a parcel of lees. Never saw her for amonth ! It’s no worth arguing, or caaing witnesses;just open that press door, and ye’ll see whetherI’m speaking truth «r no.”The auld man stared, and lookit dumb-foundered :and the young man, instead of rinning forrit wihis double nieves to strike me, the only thing 1was feared for, began a laughing, as if I had dunehim a glide turn. But never since I had a being,17did I ever witness such an uproar and noise as im¬mediately took place. The haill house was saeglad that the scoundrel had been exposed, that theyset up siccan a roar o’ lauchter, and thumpit awayat siccan a rate at the boards wi’ their feet, that atlang and last, wi’ pushing, and fidgetting, andhadding their sides, down fell the place they ca’the gallery, a’ the folk in’t being hurled tapsy-turvy,head foremost amang the saw-dust on the floor be¬low; their guffawing sune being turned to howl¬ing, ilka ane crying louder than anilher at the tapof their voices, “ Murder ! murder ! hand aff me ;murder! my ribs are in; murder! I’m killed—I’mspeechless !” and ither lamentations to that effect;so that a rush to the door took place, in whicheverything was overturned—the door keeper beingwheeled away like wildfire—the furrns strarnpit topieces—the lights knockit out—and the twa blindfiddlers dung bead foremost ower the stage, the bassfiddle cracking like thunder at every bruise, Siccantearing, and swearing, and tumbling, and squeeling,was never witnessed in the memory of man, sin thebuilding of Babel; legs being likely to be broken,sides staved in, een knocked out, and lives lost;there being only ae door, and that a sma’ ane; sothat, when we had been carried aff our feet thatlength, my wind was fairly gane, and a sick dwamcam ower me, lights of a’ manner of colours, red,blue, green, and orange, dancing before me, thatentirely deprived me o’ common sense, till, onopening my een in the dark, I fand mysell leaningwi’ my braid side against the wa’ on the oppositeside of the close. It was some time before I minditwhat had happened; so, dreading scaith, I fandfirst the ae arm, and then the ither, to see if theywere broken—syne my head—and syne baith o’,mylegs; but a’, as weel as I could discover, was skin-hale and scart-free. On perceiving which, my joy]8\ras without bounds, hav ing a great notion that Ibad been killed on the spot. So I reached roundmy hand, very thankfully, to tak out my pocket-napkin, to gie toy brow a wipe, when 1<> and beholdthe tail of my Sunday's coat was fairly alt'and away,dockit by the haunch buttons.A PHILISTINE IN THE COAL HOPE.It was about the mouth of March, in the year ofgrace anno doinini eighteen hunder, that the hatiicountry tiummelled, like a man ill of the inter¬minable fiver, under the consternation of i ona-partie, and all the French vagabonds emigratingower, and landing in the firth. Keep us a’! thefolk, dytit bodies, pat less confidence than becamethem in what our volunteer regiments were ableand willing to do ; though we had a remnant aimingus of the true bliiid, that with loud laughter laucliedthe creatures to scorn, and 1, for ane, keepit up mypluck, like a true HieLmler. D es cny leevingsoul believe that 'cotbind could b: conquered, andthe like o’ us sold, like Egyptian slaves, into cap¬tivity ? Fie. fie,— I could spit on siccan haevers.Are we no descended, faither and son frae RobertBruce and Sir W illiam Wallace, having the brightbluid of freemen in our veins, and the Pentium! hills,as weel as our ain dear hames and firesides, tofight for? ’Fhe fief that wadna gie cut-aml-thrustfor his country, as king as he bad a breath to draw,ora leg to stand on, should be tied neck and heels,without benefit o’ clergy, and thrown ower Leithpier, to swim for his life like a m ingy dog !It was sometime in the blasty month of March,the weather being rawi>!» and rainy, wi’ sharp frostynights, that left all the window-soles whitewashedower with frost-rind in the mornings, that, as l wasgoing out in the dark, afoie lying cioun in my bed.19to gie a look into t! e hfn-lionse door, and lock thecoal cellar, so that 1 might pit the hit hey intil mybreek pom lies, 1 happened to gie a keek in, and, loand hehold, the siwfn' apparition of a man wi’ ayellow jacket, lying sound asleep on a great lumpo’ parrot-coal in a corner.In the hurry of my terror and surprise, at seeinga man with a yellow jacket, and a blue foraging-capin such a situation. 1 was like to drapthe guid two¬penny candle, and feint dean away; but coming tomysell in a jiffy, 1 determined, in case it might bea high-way rubber, to thraw about the key, and,rinning up for the firelock, shoot him through thehead instantly, if found necessary. In turninground the key, the lock being in want of a feathero’ oil, made a noise, and waukened the pair wretch,who, jumping to the soles of his feet in despair,cried out in a voice that was like to break my heart,though I cdudna not mak out ae word of his para-phernaily. It minded me by a’ the world, of awheen cats faffing and feighting through ither, andwhiles something that sounded like “ ISugar, sugar,measure the cord,” and “ dabble, dabble.” It waswarn- than the maist outrageous Gaelic ever spokenin the height o’ passion by a Hieland shearer.“ Oho !” thinks I, friend, ye cannot he a Chris¬tian from your lingo, that’s one thing poz ; and Iwould wager tippence your a FYenchy. Who kenskeep us all, hut ye may be Bonaparte himself in’disguise, come over in a flat bottemed boat, to spythe nakedness of the land. So ye may just restcontent, and keep your quarters good till the morn’smorning.”It was a wonderful business, and enough to hap¬pen to a man, in the course of his lifetime, to findMounseer from Paris in his coal neuk, and havethe enemy of his country snugundcr lock and key ;so, while he kept rampaging, fuffmg, stamping, anddiabbling away, I went in, and brought out Benjiewith a blanket rowed round him. and my journey¬man, Tommy Bodkin,—who being an orphan, Imade a kind of parlour boarder ot, lie sleeping on ashake-down beyond the kitchen fire—to hold a ooit-suitation, and be witness of the transaction.I got my musket, and Tommy Bodkin armedhimself with the goose, a deadly weapon, whoevermay get a clour with it, and Benjie took the pokerin one hand and the tongs in the other; and outwe all marched briskly, to make the Frenchman,that was locked up from the light of day in the coalhouse surrender. After hearkning at the door fora while, and finding all quiet, he gave a knock torouse him up, and see if we could bring anythingout of him by speering hipi cross-questions. Tam¬my and Benjie trembled from top to toe, like aspenleaves, but Sent a word could we make commonsense of at a’. I wonder wha edicates time foreigncreatures ? it was in vain to follow him, for he justgab, gabbled away, like ane o’ the stone-masons atthe tower of Babel. It first I was completely bam¬boozled, and amaist dung stupid, though I kent aword of French which I vvantit to pit till him, soI cried through, “ Canna you speak Frencha,Mounseer ?”He hadna the politeness to stop and mak answer,but just gaed on \vi’ his string of havers, withouteither rhyme or reason, which we could mak neithertap, tail, nor main o'.It was a sair trial to us a’, putting us to our witsend, and boo to come on was past all visible com¬prehension: when Tammy Bodkin, gieing his elbowa claw said, c‘ Odd maister, f wager something that,he’s broken loose frae Pennycuick. We have himlike a rotten in a fa.” On Pennycuick being men¬tioned wm beard the foreign cratur in the coal-house groaning out, “och” and “ ohone,” and“ parbleu,” and “ Mysie Babbie,’ —that I fancvwras his sweetheart at harne, sum bit French queen21that wondered he was never like to come frae thewars and marry her. I thocht on this, for hisvoice was mournfu’, though I couldna understandthe words ; and kenning he was a stranger in a farland, my bowels yearned within me with compass¬ion towards him.I wad hae gien half-a-crown, at that blessed mo¬ment, to hae been able to wash my hands free ohim; hut I swithered, and was like the cuddie be¬tween the twa bundles of hay. At lang and last athocht struck me, which was to the deludedsimple crafur a chance of escape; reckoning that ifhe fahd his way hame, he wad see the shame andfolly of feighting against us ony mair ; and, marry¬ing Maysie Rabble, live a contented and peacefulife under his ain feg and bey tree. So, wishinghim a sound sleep, I cried through the door,—“ Mounseer, good.a nightadecoying away Benjieand Tammy Bodkin into the house, and dispatch¬ing them to their beds like lamp lighters, biddingthem never fash their thumbs, but sleep like taps,as I would keep a sharp look-out till morning.As soon, hoosomever, as I heard them sleeping,and playing on the pipes through their noses, 1cried first “ Tammie,” and syne “ Benjie” to besure, and, glad to receive nae answer from either,1 ga'ed to the aumrie and took out a mutton bane,1 gey sair pykit, hut fleshy eneuchat the moose end;and, pitting a penny row aside it, crap out to thecoal house on my tip-taes. All was quiet as pussie,—so 1 shot them through the hole at the cornermade for letting the gaislings in by ; and, g'ieinga tirl, cried saftly through,—“ Halloa, Mounseer,there’s yere suppera fora youa; for I dara sayayou are yauppa ”The' puir chiel commented again to grunt andgranc, and groan and yelp, and cry ohone;—andinak sic waefti lamentations, that heart o’ maneo'tulna stand it; and I fand the warm tear piap,22propping to my een. Before being putten to thistrial of my strength, 1 thodit, that if ever it wmmy fortune to foregather wi’ a Frenehina ;, eitherhim or me would do or die; but, ifegs, aiie shouid-na crack sae crouse afore they are put to the test;Being a volunteer, and so ane of his majesty’s con¬fidential servants, I swithered* tremendously be¬tween my duty as a man and a soldier; bur, daewhat you likrf, nature will aye be uppermost. Thescale weighed down to the side of peety. I hear¬kened to the' scripture that, promises a blessingto tiie merciful in heart, and determined, come o’twhat would, to let the Frenehy tak his chance offulling into ither hands.Having gien him a due allowance by looking atmy watch and thinking he Would h ive hud enoughof time to hue taen his wall of the mutton-bane inthe way of pykiug. I g.ied to the press and broughtout a bottle of swipes, which I also shoved throughthe hole; altho’ for lack of a tanker, there beingnane tit hand, he would be obleege ! to lift it to hishead, and guller’t ower as well us might be. i’oshew the cratur didna want sense, lie shoved whenhe was dune, the empty plate arid the loom bottle,through aneath the door, mumbling some trash orither, which nae leevi.ig could comprehend, butwhich I datir say, from the way if was said, was thetelling me boo mucklti ohleeged he was for his sup¬per and puir lodging, Frae my kindness towardshim, he grew mair composed ; but, as he gae 1 hackto the corner to lie down, I heard him gie twa threeheavy sighs.—! cou Ina th d’t, mortal foe thoughthe man was of mine, so I gied the key a cannythraw round in the lock, as it were by chance ; andwishing him a good night, gued to my bed besideNanse.At the dawn o’ daw, by coek-craw, Betijie andTammy Bodkin, keen o’ the ploy, were up and astiras anxious as if their life depended on it, to sae that23all was safe and fcnug, and that the prisoner hadaashot the lock. They agreed to march sentry overhim, half an hour the piece, time about, the anastretching himsell out on a stool beside the kitchenfire, by way of a bench in the guard-house, whilethe other gaed to and fro like the ticker of a clock.The back window being up a jink, I heard thetwa confabbing. “ Well draw' cuts/’ said Benjie,“ which is to walk sentry first; see, here’s twastraes, the langest gets the choice,” “ I’ve won,”cried Tammy, “ so gang you in a while, and if Ineed ye, or grow lightened, 1 11 beat leather-ty-patch wi’ my knuckles on the back door. But wehad better see first what he is about, for he may bahon king a hole through aneath the foundations ;thae fiefs can work like moudiewards.”—“ I’ll slipforrit,” said Benjie, “and gie a peep,”—“ Keep toa side,” cried Tammy Bodkin, “ for, dog on it,Mooseyll maybe hae a pistol;—and, if his birse beup, ne would think nae mair o’ shooting, yeas deadas a mavvkin than I would do of taking my break¬fast.“ I’ll rin past, and gie a knock, at the door w’ thepoker to rouse him up? ’ askit Benjie.“ Come away then,” answered Tammie,1 cc andyell hear him gie a yowl, and commence,gabblinglike a goose.”As all this was going on, I rose and took a vizzybetween the chinks of the window-shutters; so, justas I got my neb to the hole, I saw Benjie, as he flewpast, give the door a drive. His consternation, onfinding it flee half optyi, may be easier imaginedthan described, for, expecting the Frenchman tobounce out like a roaring lion, they hurried likemad into the house, couplng the creels ovver aneanither, Tammie spraining his thumb against theback door, and Benjie’s .fobt’going into Tammia’scoat pocket, winch it carried' away -with it, like acloth sandal.uAt tlie noise of this str;ima«h, l took opportunityto come fieeing- down the stair, with the gun in myimnd. Benjie was in a terrible pickle ; andthough his nose was blooding with the drive liehad come against Tammie's teeth, he took hand ofm - arm like grim death, crying, “ Take tent, f'aither,t^ke tent; the door is open, and the Pennicuickerhiding himsel behind it. He'll brain some of uswi’ a lump o’ coal.I jaloused at onee that this was nonsense; judgingthat the creature would be otf and ower to Francein some honest man’s fishing-boat, down by at Kish-eyrow; but to throw stoure in the een of the twovaliants, I loaded wi’ a wheen draps in their pre¬sence, and went forrit wi’ the piece at full cock.Tammie and Benjiceame behint me, w hile, push¬ing the door wide open with the rnuazle, as 1 heldmy finger at the trick :\ I cried, Stand or be shot’whey young Curseeowl’s big ugly mastilf-doug, wi'the hare mutton-bane in its te’-lh, bolted throughbetween my legs like a fury, and wi' such a forceas to wheel me ower on the braid id' my back whileI gie.l a dunt on the causeway that made the gungo otf, and riddled Nanse’s best washing tub in amanner that laid it on the superannuated list as totlie matter of holding in water. The goose, that wassitting on her eggs, amang clean straw, in the in¬side o’t, was also rendered a lamiter for life.YV hat became o’ the French vagrant is a' mattero’sunnise,—nae mortal kens. Baton making searchin the cOal-house, at our leasure, wre fund a boxfulf things wi black dots on them, for pi tying at an/utlandish game they ca’ dominoes. I never likitgambling a my life ; but as to the dominoes, con¬sidering that the Frenchy had left them as the onlypayment in his power for a bit comfortable supper,it behooved me—for so I thocht—no to turn thewrung side o’ my face a’thegither on his present, asthat wad be unmannerly tow-ards a pair stranger.