THEHISTORYor*Duncan Campbell,AND HISDOG, OSCvlM.otbom hogg’s evening tales.STIRLING:SfcttTBED BY WILLIAM MA£MH£,A ad Soli Wholesale and RrMi.isas.f ^ 0¥ SCOTLAND r* \ -DUNCAN CAMPBELL.Dunoan Campbell came from the Highlands, whensix year* of age, to live with an old maiden aunt inEdinburgh, and attend the school. His mother wasdead: but his father had supplied her place, by mar¬rying his house Keeper. Duncan did not trouble him-■elf about these matters, nor indeed about any ,other matters, save a black foal of his father’s, ,and a large sagacious colley, named Oscar, which ibelonged to one of the shepherds. There being |no other boy save Duncan about the house, Oscar and fhe were constant companions.—With his garter tied |round Oscar’s neck, and a piece of deal tied to his big |bushey tail, Duncan would often lead him about the Igreen, pleased with the idea that be w»s conducting a fhorse and eart. Oscar submitted to alt this with great 11cheerfulness, but whenever Duncan mounted to ride !on him, he found means instantlv to unhorse him,,either by galloping, or rolling IiimsEli on the green-When Duncan threatened him, he looked submissiveand licked bis face and hands ■, whe,n he corrected himwith the whip, he cowered at his feet 5-—.matters weresoon made up. Oscar vould iodge nowwhare duringthe night, but at the floor of the room where his youngfriend slept, and woe be to the m»n or woman who ven-jtured to enter in at untimely hours.When Duncan left bis native home, he thought no:jof his father, nor any of the servants. He was ?om) ■of the ride, and some supposed that h*’ even scai-’.rl !thought of the black foal; but when be .-w Oscaj,standing looking him ruefully in the face, the r.-i|immediately blinded both his eyes. He caught hiearound the neck, hugged and kissed him.—“ G "* ;b’ye Oscar,” said he blubbering ; “ Good b’ye, Go3bless you, my dear OscarDuncan mounted beforea servant, and rode away.j—Oscar still followed at adistance, until he reached the top of the hill—he the*sat down and howled. Duncan cried till his little heartwas like to burst—“ What ails you ? ’ said the servant,“ 1 will never see my poor honest Oscar, again,” saidDuncan, “ an; my heart canna bide it.”Duncan staid a year in Edinburgh, but he did notmake great progress in learning. He did not approvehighly of attending the school, and his aunt was to*indulgent to compel his attendance. She grew ex¬tremely ill one day—the maids kept constantly by her,and never regarded Duncan. He was an additio»alcharge to them, and they never loved him, but usedhim harshly. It was now with great difficulty that hecould obtain either meat or drink. In a few days af¬ter his aunt was taken ill she died.—All was in con¬fusion, and poor Duncan was like to parish with hun¬ger :—he could find no person in the house 5 but hear¬ing a noise in his aunt’s chamber, he went in, and be¬held them dressing the corpse of his kind relation ■,—it was enough. Duncan was horrified beyond whatmortal breast, was able to endure 5—he hasted downthe stair, and ran along the High Street, and SouthBridge, as fast as his feet could carry him, crying in¬cessantly all the way. He would not have enteredthat house again, if the world bad been offered him asa reward. Some people stopped him, in order to askwhat was the matter, but.he could only answer themby exclaiming “ Oh dear ! Oh dear i” and strugglingtill be got free, held on his course careless whether hwent, provided ke got far cnocgh from the h»rr ascene he had to lately witnessed. Some have saidposed, and 1 believe Duncan has been heard to eap-fes% that he then imagined he wa' .tinning for *.Highlands, but mistook the direellly, . However thatwas, he continue d 1 is course uv < ."'me te a4Iwhere two ways met, a little south of Grange Toll*Here he sat down, and bis frenzied passion subsidedinto a soft melancholy he cried no more, but sob¬bed excessively : fixed his eyes on the ground, andmade some strokes in the dust with his finger.A sight just then appeared, which somewhat cheer¬ed, or at least interested his heavy and forlorn heart-— |it was a large drove of Highland cattle. They were ithe only creatures like acquaintances that Duncam hadseen for a twelvemonth, and a tender feeling of joy,mixed with regret, thrilled his heart at the sight of <their white horns and broad dew-laps. As the vaapassed him, he thought their looks were particularlygruff and sullen ; he soon perceived the cause, theyWere all in the hands of Englishmen : poor exiles likehimself j—going far away to be killed and eaten, andwould never see the Highland hills again!When they were all gone by, Duncan looked afterthem and wept anew ; but his attention was suddenlycalled away to something that softly touched his feet;—he lacked hastily about—it was a poor hungry lamedog, squatted on the ground, licking his feet, andn nnifesting the mosr extravagant joy. Gracious Hea- |ven! it was his own beloved and faithful Oscar! starved,emaciated, and so crippled, that he was scarcely ablete walk. He was now doomed to be the slave ef aYorkshire peasant, who it seems, had either boughtor stolen him at Falkirk, the generosity and benevo¬lence of whose feelings Were as inferior to those of Os¬car, as Oscar was inferior to him in strength andpower. It is impossible to conceive a more tendermeeting than this' was : but Duncan soon observed itthat hunger and misery were painted in his friend’slooks, which again pierced his heart with fetliBg* ■*-ffelt before. “.>J have not a crumb to give you my ppoor Oscar l** said he—" I have not a crnmb to eat <>aaysellj but I am net so ill as yon are.” The peweat itj  _ ,whistled aloud. Oicar well knew the sound, andclinging to the 1>on s hosom, leaned his head upon histhigh, and looked in Ins face, as if saying, “ O Dun¬can, protect me from yon ruffian.” The whistle wasrepeated,'accompanied t»y a loud and surly call. Os¬car trembled, but tearing to disobey, he limped awayreluctantly after his unfeeling master, who observinghim to Huger and look back, imagined he wanted toeffect his escaoe, and came running back to meet him,Oscar cowered to the earth in the most submissive andimploring manner, but the peasant laid hold of him bythe ear, and uttering many imprecations, struck himwith a thick staff till he lay senseless at his feet.Every possible circumstance seemed combined towound the teelings of poor Duncan, but this unmerit¬ed barbarity shocked him most of all. He hasted tothe scene, oi action, weeping bitterly, and telling theman that he was a cruel biute, and that if ever behimself grew a big man, he would certainly kill him.He held up his favourite’s head that he might recoverhis breath, and the man knowing that he could do littlewithout his dug, waited patiently to see what wouldbe the issue The animal recovered, and stammeredaway at the heel* of his tyrant, without daring to lookbehind him, Duncan stood still, but kept his eye*eagerly fixed upon Oicar, and the farther he wentirom him, the more strong his desire grew to followhim. He looked the other way, but all there was tohim a blank—he had no desire to stand where he was,so he followed 0?car and the drove of cattle.The cattle were weary and went slowly, and Dun¬can, getting a little goad in his hand, assisted the mengreatly in driving them. One of the drivers gave hima penny, and another gave him twopence : and thelad who had the charge of the. drove, observing howactive and pliable lie was, and bow far he had accom¬panied him on the way, gave him sixpence ; this wasa treasure to Duncan, whc, being extremely hungry,6fr.oBgUt three penny rolls, as be passed tlirougb-s town,ape ot these be ate himself, another he gave to Osear ;and the third he carried below his arm, in case offor-ther necessity. He drove all the day, and at nightthe battle rested upon a height, which by his descrip¬tion, seems to have been that between Gala Waterand Middleton. Duncan went oft' at a side in com-.pany with Oscar, to eat his roil, and taking shelterbehind an old earthen wail, they shared tlieir dry mealwsest lovingly between them. Ere it was <juiteMniehed, Duncan being ‘uti^ued, dropped into a pro¬found slumber, out of which he did not awake untilthe next morning was far advanced. Englishmen,cattle and Oscar all were gone. Duncan found him¬self alone on a wild height, in what country or kingdomhe knew not. He sat for Rome time in a callous stup¬or, rubbing his eyes and scratching his head, butquite irresolute what was farther necessary for him todo, until he was agreeably surprised by the s -riv.tl ofOscar, who, though he had gone at iuS master s callin the morning, had found means to e rape, md seesthe retreat of his young friend and benefactor. Dun¬can, without reflecting on the consequent e, r juicedin tde event, and thought of nothing else than further¬ing Lis escape from the ruthless tyrant rlo nowclaimed him. Fur this purpose he thought !t wouldbe best to leave the road and accordingly he crossedit, in order to go over a waste moor to the r.f tward.He had not got forty paces from the road, until hebeheld the enraged Englishman running towaids himwithout his coat, and having bis staff heaved over hisshoulder. Duncan’s heart fainted within him, know¬ing it was all over with Oscar, and most likely withbimselfl The peasant "seemed not to have observedthem, as he was running, and rather looking the otherwav j and as Duncan quickly lost sight of him in ahollow place that lay between them, he crept into abush of heath and took Oscar in his bosom j the7the man had observed from whence the dog startedthe morning, and basted to the place, expecting tofind him sleeping beyond the old earthen dyke ; hefound the nest, but the birds were flown ;—lie calledj aloud \ Oscar trfrmbled and clung to Duncan“fc breast,j Duncan peeped through Ids purple covert like a heath-: cock on his native wa."te, and again beheld the ruffiancoming straight towards them, with his staff still heav¬ed, arid fury in his looks ,—when he came within afew yards he bellowed'out; “Oscar, yho, yho !*’Oscar quaked, and still clung closer to Duncan’s breast;Duncan almost sunk in the earth ■, “ D n him,”J said the Englishman, “ if 1 had a hold of him I shouldI make both him and the little thievish' rascal, dear at ai small price ; they cannot he far gone—1 think 1 hear| them j” he then stood listening, but at that instant afarmer came up on horseback, and having heard him( call, asked him if he had lost his dog ? The peasanti answered in the affirmative, and added, that a black-j guard boy had stolen him. The farmer said that lieiii met a boy with a dog about a mile forward. Duringr| this dialogue, the farmers.dog came up to Duncan’s;! den,—smelled upon him, then upon Oscar —cockedhis tail, walked round them growling, and then be¬lli haved in a very improper and uncivil manner to Dun-|j can, who took all patiently, uqcertain whether he wastj Vet discovered. But so intent was the fellow uponI the farmers intelligence, that betook no notice of thei discovery made by the deg, but ran off without leok-ing over his shoulder.Duncan felt this a deliverance so great, that all hisI other distresses vanished ; and as soon as the man wasout of his sight, he rose from his covert, and ran overthe moor, and ere it was long, came to a shepherd’shouse, where he got some whey and bread for hisbreakfast, which he thought the best meat he had evertasted,►yet shared it with Oscar *1 hough f had his history from his own mouth, yet8Aere is a space kere which »t is impossible to relatewith any degree of distinctness or interest. He. was avagabond boy, without any fixed habitation, and wan¬dering about Herriot Moor, from one farm house te:another, for the space of a year ; staying from on*to twenty nights in each house, according as he foundithe people kind to hian. He seldom resented anyjindignity offered to himself, but whoever insulted Os¬car, or offered any observations on the impropriety dtheir friendship, lost Dunean's company next morningJHe staid several months at a place called Dewar, whichhe said was hunted by the ghost of a piper that npiper had been murdered there many years before, ina manner somewhat mysterious, or at least unaccount-ble; and there was scarcely a night on which he wassupposed either to be seen or heard about the house.Duucan slept in the cow-house, and was terribly harassed by the piper, he often heard him scratching aboutthe rafters, and sometimes he would groan like a maadying, or a cow that was choaked in the band ; but atlength he saw him at his side one night, which so discomposed him that he was obliged to leave the place,after being ill for many days. I shall give this storyin Duncan's own words, which 1 have oiten heard biarepeat without any variation.“ I had been driving some young cattle to the height!of Willenslie—it grew late before I got home —1 wat «ijithinking, and thinking, bow cruel it was to kill thtpoar piper! to cut out his tongue, and stab him t*the hack. 1 thought it was no wonder that his ghost itook it extremely ill ; when, all on a sudden, I percetved a light before me *,—l thought the wand in m]hand was all on fire, and threw it away, hut I perceiv¬ed the light glide slowly by my right foot, and bunbehind me I was nothing afraid, and turned aboU1to look at the light, and theie I saw the pitier, whtkiwas standing hard at mv back, and when I turnecjround, he looked me in the face.” What was hr9!4like, Doncan ?” “ He was like a dead body ! but Iget a short view of him: for that moment all aroundme grew dark as a pit !—1 tried to run, but sunkpowerless to the earth, and lay in a kind of dream, Ido not know bow long: when I came to myself, I gotup, and endeavoured to run, but fell to the groundevery two steps. I was not a hundred yards from thebouse, and 1 am sure 1 fell upwards of a hundredtimes. Next day 1 was in a high fever ; the servantsmade me a little bed in the kitchen, to which I wasconfined by illness many days, during which time 1suflered the most dreadful agonies by night, alwaysimagining the piper to be standing over me on the oneside or the other. As soon as 1 was able to walk, 1left Dewar, and for a long time durst neither sleepalone during the night, nor stay by myself in the day¬time.'’The superstitious ideas impressed upon Dunean’smind by this unfortunate encounter with the ghost ofthe piper, seem never to have been eradicated ; a stronginstance of the power of early impressions, and a warn-iling how much caution is necessary in modelling thei conceptions of the young and tender mind, for of all;:men 1 ever knew, he is the most afraid of meetingwith apparitions. So deeply is his imagination taintedwith this startling illusion, that even the calm disqui¬sitions of reason have proved quite inadequate to the(task oi dispelling it. Whenever it wears late, be islalways on the ook out for these idle beings, keepinga jealous eye upou every bush and brake, in case theyofehould he lurking behind them, ready to fly out andaurprise him every moment; and the approach of aperson in the dark, or any sudden noise, always de-frives him of the power of speech for some time.Alter leaving Dewar, he again wandered about furt few weeks ; and it appears that his youth, beauty,:ind peculiarly destitute situation, together with bisiriendship lor his iaithful Oscar, had interested the10most piift of the country" people in his behalf, for hewas generally treated with kindness. He knew hisfather's name, and the name of his house; but as noneof the people he visited had ever before heard of eithertfhe one or th: other, they gave themselves no troubleabou t the matter.He staid nearly two years in a place he called Cow- fhaur, till a wretch, with whom he slept, struck andabused him one day. Duncan, in a rage, fiew to theleft, and cut all his Sunday hat, shoes, and coat, inpieces ; and not daring to abide the consequences,decamped that night.lie wandered about for some time longer, amongthe farmers of Tweed ami Yarrow ; but this life washow become exceedingly disagreeable to him. Hedurst not sleep by himself, and the servints did notalways choose that a vagrant boy and his great dogshould sleep with them.it was on a rainy night, at the close of harvest thatDuncan came to my father’s house. I lemember allthe circumstances as well as the transactions^! yes--terday The whole of his clothing consisted only ofone black coat, which having been made for a fullgrown man, hung fairly to his heels ; the hair ef Inshead was rough, curled, and weather beaten : hut hisface was ruddy and beautiful, bespeaking a healthybody and » sensible reeling heart. O.-esr tvas stillnearly as large as himself, had the colour of a fox,with a white stripe down his face, and a ring of thesame colour around his neck, and was the most beau¬tiful colley 1 have ever seen. My heart was knit toDuncan at the first sight, and I wept for joy when I'saw my parents so kind to him. My mother in par¬ticular, could scarcely do any thing else than conversewith Duncan fur several days. 1 was always of theparty, and listened with wonder and admiration ; butoften have these adventures been repeated to me. Myparents, who soon seemed to feel the same concern for ►■’■sr11him as if he had been their own son, clothed him inbine drugget, aud bought him a smart little Highlandbonnet: in which dress he looked so charming, that lwould cot let them have peace, until I got one of th*same. Indeed, all that Duncan said or did was to mea pattern, for I loved him as my own life. I was, atmy own request, which he persuaded me to urge, per¬mitted to be Ins bed-fellow, and many a happy nightand day did I spend with Duncan and Oscar.As far as I remember, we felt no privation of anykind, and would have been completely happy, if it hadnot been for the fear of spirits. When the conversa¬tion chanced to turn upon the Piper of Dewar, theMaid of Flora, or the Pedlar of Thirlestane Mill, oftenhave we lain w ith the bed clothes drawn over our beadsuntil nearly sufioekted. We loved the faries and thebrownies, and even felt a little partiality for the mer¬maids, on account of their t’.eauty and charming songs ;we. were a little jealous of the water kelpies, and al¬ways kept aloof from the frightsome pools. We hatedthe devil moat heartily, but we were not much afraidof him i but a ghost! oh, dreadful ! the names, ghost,spirit, or apparition, sounded in our ears like the knellof destruction, and our hearts sunk within us as ifpierced by the cold icy shaft of death. Duncan herd¬ed my father’s cows all the summer—so did I wecould not live asunder. We grew fishers -so expert,that the speckled trout, with all his art, could not eludeour machinations we, forced him from his watery cave,admired the beautiful shades and purple drops thatwere painted on ids sleeky sides, and forthwith addedhim to our number, without reluctance. We assailedthe habitation of the wild bee, and rifled all her accu¬mulated sweets, though not without encountering themost determined resistance. My father’s meadowsabounded with hives ; they were almost in every swath—in every hillock. When the swarm was large, theywould heat us off, day after day. In all these despe-\12rate eagagemenla. Oscar came to our aaMitance, anJ,provided tiiat none of the euemy make a lodgementia his lower defiles, he was always the last combatant ofour party on the field. 1 do not remember of ever be*ing so much divirted by any scene I ever witnessed,or laughing as immoderately as 1 have done, at seeingOscar involved in a moving cloud of wild bees, wheel¬ing, soaping on all sides, and shaking his eats inces¬santly.The sagacity which this animal possessed is almostincredible, while his undaunted spirit and generosity,it would do honour to every servant of our own speciesto copy. Twice did he save his master's life : at onetime when attacked by a furious bull, and at anothertime when be fell from behind my father, off a horseinto a flooded river. Oscar had just swimmed across,but instantly plunged in a second time to bis master**rescue. He first got bold qf his bonnet, but throw¬ing off, be quitted it, and again catching him by thecoat, brought him to the side, where my father reach¬ed him. He waked Duncan at a certain hour everymorning, and would frequently turn the cnws of hisown will, when he observed them wrong. II Duncandropped bis knife, or any other small article, he wouldfetch it along in his mouth ; and if sent back for a lostthing, would infallibly find it. When sixteen yearsof age, after being unwell for several days, he died onenight below his masters bed. On the evening before,when Duncan came in from the plow, he came fromhis hiding place, wagged his tail, licked Duncan’shand, and returned to his death-bed. Duncan and Ilamented him with unfeigned sorrow, hurried him be¬low the old rowan tree at the hack of my father’s gar¬den, placing a squire stone at his head, which was stillstanding the last time I was there. With great labour,we composed an epitaph betwten which was oncecarved ou that stone : the metre was good, hut thestone was so hard, and the engraving so faint, that the• f13characters, like those of our early joys, are long agodefaced and extent.Often have I hear my tr.otherrelate with enthusiasm,the manner in which she and my lather first discover¬ed the dawnings of goodness and facility of conceptionin Duntan's mind, though, I confess, dearly as 1 lovedhim, these circumstances escaped my observation. Itwas my father's invariable custom to pray with the fa¬mily every night before they retired to rest, to thankthe Almighty lor his kindness to them during the by¬gone day, and to beg his protection through the darkand silent watches of the night. I need not inform; any of my readers, that amiable duty, consisted insinging a few stanzas of a psalm, in which all the family0 joined their voices with my father’s, so that the doubleoctaves of the various ages and sexes swelled to theI simple concerts He then read a chapter from theBible, going straight on from beginning to end of thaScriptures. The prayer concluded the devotions ofeach evening, in which the dewntali of Antichrist wasalwoya strenuously urged, the ministers of the Gospelremembered, nor was any friend or neighbour in dis¬tress i'V'rgot.At one time, the year following, my father, in thecourse of his evening devotions, had reached the. I9th chapter of the hook of Judges : when he beganreading it, Duncan was se»t*d on the other side ofthe house, but eie it was half dme. be had stolen upclose to my father’s elbow. “ Consider of it, take ad¬vice, speak your mind,’ said my father, and closed thebook. ‘ Go on, go on, if you please, Sir,” said Duncan,M go on, and let us hear what they said about it. ’ Myfather locked sternly in Duncan’s face, but seeing himabashed on account of his hasty breach o* decency,without uttering a word, he airam opened the Bible,and read the 20th chapter throughout, notwithstandingof its great length. Next day Duncan was walkingabout with the Bible below his arm, begging of everybod!) to i>ad it to him again and again. This incidentpredict'd a conversation between my parents, on th*peaces and utility of education : the consequenceof v'liich was, that the week following, Duncan and Iwei ,- sent to the parish school, and began at the sameinstant'to the study of that most important and funda*u,eiiyil bianch of literature, the A, B, C ; but mys»sier Mary, who was older than I, was already an ac-cor ite and elegant reader.Tais reminds me of another anecdote of Duncan,with regard to family worship, which I have oftenbeard related, aod which I myself may well remember.Mr father happening to be absent one night at a fair,when the usual time of worship arrived, my motherdesired * lad, one of the servants, to act as chaplainfur that night: the lad declined it, and slunk away tohis bed. My mother testified her regret that weshould all be obliged to go pfayerless to our beds forthat night, observing that she did not remember thetime when it had so happened before. Duncan sjijd hethought we might contrive to manage it amongst us,and instantly proposed to sing the psalm and pray, itMary would read the chapter. To this my motherwith some hesitation agreed, remarking, that if he pray¬ed as he could, with a pure heart, his prayer had asgood a chance of being accepted as some other thatwere better worded. Duncan could not lh*n read, buthave learned several psalms from Mary by rote, hecaused her seek out the place, and sung the 23dPsalm from end to end, with great sweetness and de¬cency. Mary read a chapter in the New Testament, andthen my mother having a child on her knee, vve threekneeled in a row, while Duncan'prayed thus :—4' OLord, be thou our God, our guide, and our guard untodeath,andtiirough death,” thatwasasentencemy fatheroften used in prayei; Duncan had laid hold &t it, and mymother began to think that he had often prayed previousto that time.—‘ 0 Lord, thou —continued Duncan but15ir! his matter '.vas fcx!iaus»ted ; a long pause ensned, wliiehI at lenath broke, by bursting into a loud fit of laugh-1 ter. Duncan rose hastily, and without once liftingt up his head went crying to his bed : and as I continu¬ed to indulge in laughter, my mother, for my irreve¬rent behaviour, strucit meacro->s the shoulders with thetongs ; cur evening devotions terminated exceedinglyili, i went, ci ting to my bed after Duncan, even loud¬er than he, and a busing him for his useless prayer, torwhich I had been neatly felled.By the time that we were recalled from school toherd the cows next summer, we could both read the■ IJible with con-tcWrsi-iic facility, hut Duncan far excel¬led me in perspicacity ; and so fond was he of reading( Bible history, that t - reading of it was now our con¬stant antosenter'. Often have Maty, and be, and I,loin under the same psaid, by the side of the corn ormeadow, and read chapter about on the Bible for hourstogether, weeping over the failings and fall of goodmen, and wondering at the inconceivable might of theheroes’of antiquity. Never was man so delighted asDuncan was when he came to the history of Sampson,and alter wank of David and Goliah ; he could not besatisfied until be had read it to every individual withwhom he was acquainted, judging it t« be as new andas interesting to every one as it was to himself, fhave seen him standing by the girls as they weremilking the cows, reading to themthe feats of Sampson;and, in short, harassing ever? man and woman, aboutthe hamlet, for audience. On Sundays, my parentsaccompanied us to the fields, and joined in our delight-' fu! exercise.Time passed away, and so also did our youthful de¬lights •, hut other cares and other pleasures awaited us.As we advanced in years and strength, we quitted theherding, and bore a b.-ud in the labours of the farm.‘Mary, too, was often our assistant. She and Duncanwere nearly of an age—he was tail; comely, and affable}16* A if Mi ry was not the priitipst girl in the parish,hi least Duncan and ! believed her to be so, which,with us, amounted to the same thing. We often com¬pared the other girls in the parish with one anothera * to their beauty am! accomplishments, but to thinkof comparing any of them with Mary, was entirely outol the question. She wa«, indeed, the emblem oftruth, simplicity, and innocence, and it there were fewmore beautiful, there were still fewer so good andamiable; but still as she advanced in years, shew grewfonder and (under of being near Duncan ; and by thetime she. was nineteen, was so deeply in love, that itaffected her manner, her spirits, and her health. Atone time she was gay and frisky as a kitten j shewould dance, sing, and laugh V!oiont)y at the mosttrivial incidents. At other times sire was silent andsad, while languishing softness overspread her fea¬tures, and added greatly to her charms. The passionwas undoubtedly mutual between them ; hut Duncan,either from a sense of honour, or some other cause,never declared himself farther on the subject, thanby the most respectful attention, cud t-nder assiduties.About forty years ago the flocks of southern sheep,which since that period have inundated the Highlands,bad not found their way over the Grampian mountains,and the native flocks of the sequestrated country wereso scanty, that it was found necessary to transportsmall quantities of wool annually to the north, to fur¬nish materials for clothing the inhabitants. Duringtwo months of each summer the hilly countries of theLowlands were inundated by hundreds of women fromthe Highlands, who bartered small articles of dress,and of domestic import, for wool ; these, were knownby the appelation of norlen nettles ; and few nightspassed, during the wool season, that some of themwere not lodged at my father’s house. It was fromtwo of these that Duncan learned one day who andwhat he was j that he was the laird of Glenellich *ITonly ton and heir, and that a large snm had been of¬fered to any person that could discover hint. Mjparents certainly rejoiced in Duncan’s good fortune,yet they were disconsolate at parting with him : forhe had long ago become as a son of their own ; and lseriously believe, >,(iat from the day they first met, tnthat on which the tme norlen-netties cap* to our house,they never onre entertained the idea of parting. Formy part, I wi-hed that the netties had never beenhorn, or that they had staid at their own home ; forthe thoughts of being separated from my dear friendmade me sick at heart. All our feelings, were, how¬ever, nothing, when compared with those of my sister,Mary.One day at dinner, after a long and sullen pawse,my father said, “ I hope yon do not intend to leaveus very soon, Duncan ?” ‘ I am thinking of goingaway to-morrow, Sir,” said Duncan. The knife fellfrom my mother’s hand } she looked him steadily inthe face for the space of a minute “ Duncan,” said•he, her voice faultering, and the tsars droppingfrom her eye—Duncan. 1 never durst ask youbefore, but I hope you will not leave us altogether ?’*Duncan thrust the plate from before him into thamiddle of the table—took up a book that lay on thewindow, and looked over the pages—Mary left theroom. No answer was returned, nor any furtherinquiry made ! and our .little party broke up iu si¬lence.When we met again in the evening, we were stillall sullen My father said, “ You will soon lot get.us, Duncan ; but there are some among us who wiltnot so soon foruet you. Mary again left the mom,and silence ensued, until the tamiiy were called toge¬ther for evening worship,The next morning, after a restless night, Duncanrose early, put on his best suit, and packed up somelittle articles to carry with him. 1 lay panting and19the Dew, Caleilocian Sea,-1 and part of the Hebrides jevery avenue, tree, and rock, was yet familiar to Duty-can,s recollection : and the feelings of bis sensibleheart like his own. He bad, without discovering hint"self learned from a peasent that bis father was scillalive, bnt that he had never overcome the loss of hisson, for whom he lamented every day , that bis wifeand daughter forced it over him, liol'img his pleasureat nought, and rendering his age exfrtinely unhappy,that they bad expelled all his old farm: rs and ^assals;and introduced the lady's vulgar pn samptious r»-la-lions, who neither paid him rents, honour, nor obedi¬ence.Old Glenellich was taking his evening walk on theroad by which Duncan* decended the strath, to hisdwelling. He was pondering on his own misfortunes,and did not even design to lift his eyes a* the strangerapproched, but seemed counting the number of markswhich the horses’ hoofs h id rttade on the way “ Goode‘en to you. Sir M said Duncan the old man startedand stared him in the face, but with a look so un¬steady and horrassed, that he«eemed incapable of dis¬tinguishing any lineament of feature of it. “Goade‘en,'’ said he, wiping his brow with his arm, and pass¬ing by.—What there was in the voice that strucK himso forcible it is hard to say-'—Nature is powerful —D uncan could not think, of ought to detain him; andbeing desirous of seeing how matters went on aboutthe house, thought it best to remain some days incog.He went into the fore-kitcben, conversed freely withthe servents, and soon saw bis stepmother and sisterappear. The former had all the insoence a«d ig¬norant pride of vulgarity raised to wealth and emi¬nence ; the other seemed naturally ot an amiabledisposition, but was entir-iy ruled bv tier mother,who taught her to disdain her father, all bis relations-and whomsoever he loved-. On that same evening became into the kitchen, where she then was chattinga18i rembling, but preten<led#o be fast asleep. When hel as ready to depart, he took his bundle below his arm,lame up to the side of the bed, and listened if I wasileeping. He then stood long hesitating, looking wist¬fully to the door, and then to me alternately •, and Law him three or four times wipe his eyes. At lengthie shook me gently by the shoulder, and asked if I wasiwake. I feigned to start, and answered as if halfnsleep. “ I mast bid you farewell,” said he, groping;o get hold of my hand. “-Will you not breakfast[witji us, Duncan,” said 1. “ No,” said he, *' 1 amthinking that it is best to steal away, for it will breakmy heart to take leave of you parents.”—“ Andwho, Duncan ?’ said I. “ And you,7* said be, “ i:i-ideed, but it is best Duncan,” said I, “ we will ailbreakfast together for the last time, and then take aIformal and kind leave of each other.” We did hreak-ifast together, and as the conversation turned on for-i mer days, it became highly interesting to us all. Whenii my father bad returned thanks to Heaven for our meal,<’ we knew what was coming, and began to look at each■! other. Duncan rose, and after we nail all loaded himi with our blessings and warmest wishes, he embracedmy parents and me.—He turned about.— His eyes saidI plainly, there is somebedy still wanting, but his heartt was so full he could not speak. “.What is become off Mary ?’ said my father ;—Mary was gone.—We’ searched the house, the* garden, and the houses of all1 the cottagers, but she was no where to.be found.—Poor lovelorn forsaken Mary ! She had hid herself inthe ancieV yew that grows in front of the old ruin,that she might see her lover depart, without h..rseiibeing seen, and might indulge in all the luxury of woe.I must pass over Duncan’s journey to the northH’ .hlands, for want of room ; but on the evening ofthe sixth day after leaving my father’s house, he reach¬ed the mansion-house of Glenellich, which stands in alittle beautiful woody strath, commanding a view of20with Duncan, to whom she seemed attached at firstsight. “ Lexy, my dear,” said he, “ did you see mjspectacles?’’ “ Yes, ’ said she, “I think I saw themon your nose to day, at breakfast.” “ Well, but Ihave lost them since,’’ said he. “ You may take upthe next you find then, Sir,” said she.—The servantslaughed. “ 1 might well have known what informa*tion I would get of you,” said he, regretfully. “ How jcan you speak in such a style to your father, my dear |lady?” said Duncan.—“ If I were he, I would placeyou where you would learn better manners.—It ill ;becomes so pretty a young lady to address an old fa¬ther thus. ’ “ He,“ said sIm, “ who minds him ? '■lie's a dotard, and old whining, complaining, super-anuated being, worse than a child." “ But consider *his years," said Duncan j “ and besides, be may havemet with ciosses and losses sufficient to sour the temperof a younger man.— Vou should at all events pity andrevence, but never despise your father." The oldlady now joined them. " You have yet heard no¬thing, young man," said the old laird? " if you sawhow my heart is sometimes wrung.—Yes, I have hadlosses indeed." “You losses!" said his spouse;—No : you never had any losses that did not in theend turn out a vast profit." " Do you then count♦ he loss of a loving wife and a son nothing :" said liehe. " But have you not got a loving wife and adaughter in their room," returned she ; " the one willwot waste your fortune as a .prodigal son would havedone, and the other will take caie ol both you and that,when you can no longer do either—the Toss of yourson, indeed ; it was (he greatest blessing you couldhave received ;" " Unfeeling woman," said he ; " butII sven may yet le-tore that son to protect thegray hairs of his old father, and lay his headsn an honoured grave." The old man's spiritsweie quite gone—he ciied like a child;—iiis lady mimicked him—.«nd, at this, hidaufch-21ter and the servants raised a laugh. “ InhutndRwretches,” said Duncan, starting up, and pushing themaside, 44 thus to mock the feelings of an old man, evenalthough he were not the lord and master of youall : but take notice—the individual among you all! that dares to offer such another insult to him, I’llroast on that fire." The old man clung to him, andlooked him ruefully in the face. 44 You impudent,beggarly vagabond !*’ said the lady, 44 do you knowto whom you speak ?—servants turn that wretch out; of the house, and hunt him with all the dogs in the! kennel.” “ Softly, softly, good lady,” said Dan-* can, 44 take care that 1 do not turn you out of the| Loufe.”—“ Alas, good youth,’ said the eld laird,' 44 you little know what you are about; for mr rcy’si sake forbear ; you are brewing vengeance both forf yeurselfand me.” 44 Fear not,” said Duncan,44 l wiHi; protect you with my life.” “ Pray, may I ask youi what is your name ?’ said the old man, still looking:i earnestly at him.'—44 That you may,” replied Dun^aa,44 no man has so good a right to ask any thing of me,s as you have—I am Duncan Campbell, your own «o».*’J 44 son J’’ exclaimed the old man, and sunkI hack on a seat with a convulsive moan. DuncanI held him in his arms—he soon recovered, and askedi many incoherent questions—looking at the two molss( on his right leg—kissed him, and then wept on his( bosom for joy. 44 O God of heaveu," said be, 44 it islong since i could thank thee heartily for any thing jc now l do thank thee indeed, for I have found my son !! my dear and only sou.”Contrary to what might have been expected, Dan-eass’s pretty only sister. Alexia, rejoiced most of allin his discovery. She was almost wild with joy atfinding such a brother.—The old lady, her mother,we said to have wept bitterly in private, but knowingthat Duncan would be her master, she behaved tohim with civility and respect. Fvery thing was com¬mitted to hU manage meat, and he soon discovered,22tirat besides a good dear estate, his father had personal ,funds to a great amount. The halls and cottages ofGlenellicli tvere filled with feasting, joy, and gladness.It was not so at my father’s house. Misfortuneseldom come singly. . Scarcely had our feelings over¬come the shock, which they received by the loss ofour beloved Duncan, when a more terrible misfortuneovertook us. My father, by the monstrous iagrati-tude of a friend whom he trustsd, lost at once thegreater part of his hard-earned fortune. The blowcame unexpectedly,and distracted his personal affairsto such a degree, that an arrangement seemed al- [most totally impracticable. He struggled on with isecurities for several months; but perceiving that he |was drawing his real friends into danger, by theirsigning of bonds which he might never be able to re- 1 1deem, he lost heart entirely, and yielded to the tor- irent. Mary s laind seemed to gain fresh energy everyday. The activity and diligence which she evinced •in managing the affairs of the farm, and even in giv- iing advice, with regard to other matters, is quite in- 1 i.Credible;—often have I thought what a treasure that ji.inestimable girl would have been to an industriousman whom she loved. All our efforts availed nothing;my father received letters of horniag on bills to a large' -iamount, and we expected every day that he would bai ttaken from us and dragged to a prison.We were all sitting in our little room one day, con- n,suiting what^was best to be done—we could decide jtupon nothing, for our case, was desperate—we wereilti.fallen into a kind of stupor, but the window being up,| i-a sight appeared that quickly thrilled every heart!)with the keenest sensation of anguish. Two mencame riding sharply up by the back of the old school-bouse. “ Yonder are the officers of justice now,’,jisaid my mother, “what shall we do?” We hurried ito the window, and all of us soon discerned thatthey were no other than some attorney, accompanied)‘234: tiy a sheriff's officer. My mother entreated of mrfather to escape and hide himself until tnis first storm■ was overblown, but he would in nowi-.e consent, assur¬ing us that he had done nothing of which he was ashani-! ed, and was determined to mart every one face to face,ij and lyt them do their worst; so finding all our entreatiesij vain, we could do nothing but sit down and weep.! At length we heard the noise of their horses at thedoor. “You had better take the osen’s horsesij James, ’ said my father, “as there is no other man atj hand. ’ “ We will stay still they rap, if you pie***,''I said I. The cautious officer did not however rap,1 but afraid lest his debtor should make his escape,I he jumped lightly from his horse, and hasted into theI house. When we heard him open the outer door,i and his footsteps approaching along the entry, our;| hearts fainted within us—he opened the door andII stepped into the room—it was Duncan I our ownji Jearly beloved Duncan. The women uttered an in¬i' voluntary scream of surprise, but my father ran andli got hold of one hand, and I of the other—.my mother1 too, soon had him in her arms, but our embracu wass short ; for his eyes fixed on Mary, who stood tremb-I ling with joy and wonder in a corner of the room,tl -changing her colour every moment—he snatched herup in her arms and kissed her lips, and ere ever she■ was aware, her arms had encircled his neck. “ Ot my dear Mary," said he, “ my heart has been ill at> ease since i left you, but I durst not then tell you aword of my mind, for I little knew how l was to findaffairs in the place where I was going ; but ah ! you1 little elusive rogue, you owe me another for the o»e>u che:,* ’ rne out of then j” so sayiag, he pressed• *ips ae-iin -o her cheek, and then led her to a seat., em recounted all his adventures to us, withe circumstance of his good fortune—our hearts•• lifted almost past bearing—all our cares andwere now forgotten, and we were once more••\2*t!ie liapple^t little group that ever perhaps sat te=gether. Before the cloth was laid for dinner, Maryran out. to put on her white gown, and comb her yel¬low hair, but was surprised at meeting with a smartyoung gentleman in the kitchen, with a scarlet neckon his coat, and a gold laced hat. Mary, havingnever seen so fine a gentleman, made him a lowcourtesy, and offered to conduct him t« the room:hut he smiled, and told her he was the s«|«iire*s ser-vault. We had all of us forgot to ask for the gentle¬man that came with Duncan.Duncan and Mary walked fox two hours in thegarden that evening ; we did not know what passedbetween them, but the next day be asked her ia mar¬riage of my parents, and never will I forget the su¬preme happiness and gratitude that beamed ia everyface on that happy occasion. I need aot tell my .readers that my fathers affairs were soon retrieved, orthat I accompanied my dear Mary a bride to theHighlands, and bad the satisfaction of saluting her asMrs. Campbell, and Lady of Gienellicb.FltflS.