THEII I S T O R YO F T H EEINGand the GOBLER.IN T W O P A R f S,Part I. Shews how King Henry VHL'h ufed to vifitthe watches in the city ; his acquaintance with amerry Cooler ; how he was entertained in the Cob-l r s cellar and what had like to have h- f.Jlcnt wnt ; howi upon parting the King invited him iyt. and what befel him there..'a iT ll Id for ms what pvl between the Cobfrr and/j» wife 'joa-i ■ on his reiw i fr:m Cmirt^ d'Z Uwthe %iieen, hearing-cf the mh th which*, the Cover• made, was dtfirmts of feeing him : upon which, theI. difgmfed himjelf as a Xitnner, a ad t9f fin th CKhr form leather, andlooththe d^fadwitp>a:n, as a young country maid; how fife King in-vised the uoukr and his I'/ife to' dine with them atan Inn, .and what piilfed tr:erc ; and hiflfy, how theI; Crlhkr was put in fear of his life, and cams Cjf, with flying co'curs.vjl MvV/ " 1 T fOV, CARgtULLy COR:'. ECTHV.G L A S G O W,f R IN T £ D IN TIIE S A L T M A R K.E T,M D C C X C V I 1 I.-'( 2 )THEHiftory of the King and the Cobler.PART I.CHAP. I.How king Henry VIII. ufed to vifit the watches in jthe city, and how he became acquainted with a jmerry joily cobler.IT was the cuftom of King Henry Vm. late inthe night, to walk into the city difguifed, totake notice how the conftables and watch perform¬ed their duty, in guarding the gates, and watchingthe inward parts of the city, to prevent thofe dif-turbaiices and cafualities, which often happen bynight in great and populous cities. This he didoften, without the lead difeovery, always return¬ing home tfl*Whitehal! early in the morning. Once,on his return, coming through the .Strand, he tooknotice of a certain cobler, who was condanlly upat work, whiftling and finging every morning. Herefblved to fee him, and be acquainted with him,in order to which he immediately knocked off theheel of his flioe, by hitting it againft a (lone; andhaving Fo done, he bounc’d at the cobler’s flail.Who’s there P cries the cobler,Here’s one, faid the king.With that the cobler opened the ftall-door, andthe king afleed him, if he could put on his heel.‘ Yes, that I can,’ fays the cobler; ‘ comic in,« bonefl fellow, and fit thee down by n«e, and I‘ will do it for thee 0 night.’ The cobler ferapedhis old dices to one fide, with his awl, to makeroom for the king to fit by him.THE HISTORY OF, &c. 3The king, being hardly able to forbear laughingat the kindnefsof the cobler, atk’d him if there wasnot a houfe hard by, vtr’nich fold a cup of good ale,and if the people were up ?‘ Yes/ faid the cobler, ‘ there is an inn over‘ the way there, I believe the folk are up, for the‘ carriers go frdm thence very early in the motn-« inn;.’With that the king borrowed an old fhoe of thecobler, and went over to the inn, deliring the ccb-ler to bring his fhoe thither to him, as foon as hehad put on the heel again : the cobler promifed hewould ; fo making what hafle he could to put theheel on, he carried it over to the king, faying,‘ Honeft blade, here is thy Ihoe, I’ll warrant thee* it will not come off again in hafte.’‘ Very well/ faid the king, * what mull you have* for your pains ?’‘ A couple of pence/ anfwer’d the cobler.‘ Well/ faid the king, * feeing thou art an ho-* nefl merry fellow, here’s a Teller for thee ; corns* fit thee down by me, I will drink a full pot with* thee; come, Here is a good health to the king/‘ With all my heart/ faid the cobier, ‘ I will* pledge thee were it in water.’So the cobler fat down by the King, and was ve¬ry merry, and drank of the liquor freely. He aifafang fume of his merry fcngs and catches, whereatthe king laughed heartily, and was very pleafantand jocund with the cobler, telling him withal thathis name was Harry Tudor, and that be belong¬ed to the Court ; and if he would come and feehim there* he would make him very welcome, be-eaufe he was fuch a merry fellow; and charged himto be there, and not to forget his name, and to afkany one about the court for him, and they wouldbring him to him: For, faid the king, I sm verywe.il known there.4 THE HISTORY OF THENow the cooler little dreamed that he was theking who fpake to him, much lefs that the king’sname was Harry Tudor ; therefore, with a greatdeal of confidence, he (lands up, and pulls off hishat, and makes two or three ferapes with his foot,and gives the king many thinks, gelling him that hewas one of the hondteft fellows he ever met within all his life-time ; anti though he had never beenat court, yet it fhould not be long before he wouldmake a holy-day to come and fee him.Whereupon the king, difeharging the houfe forwhat they had drunk, would have taken his leaveof the cobler.But the cobler not being willing to part with theking, took him by the hand, and faid, ‘ By my* faith, you mull not go yet; you fhall firlt go* and fee my poor habitation; I have there a tub* of good brown ale that was never tapp’d, you‘ muft needs go and tafte of it, for you are the ho-* ndieil blade,that I ever met withal; and I love* an honed merry companion with all rny heart.’C H A P.IT.How the Cobler entertained the King, in his cellar,and of the diflurbance they'd like to have had bythe Coblfcr's. Wife Joan.jO Q the cobler took the king with him over the• wav, whore he had a cellar adjoining to the(lall, which was handfomely and neatly funiifhedfor a man of his profeiTion ; into this cellar he hadthe king: ‘There,’ faid he, ‘ (it down, you are‘ very welcome, but I muft defire you to fpeak* foftly, for fear of awakening ray wife Joan, who« lies here hard !-y,’ fhewing the king a clofe bedmade up neatly at one corner of the cellar, muchlike unto a' clofet, ‘ for if (lie Should wake, (he‘ will make your ears ring again.’KING AND THE COBLER. 5At which fpeech of the cobisr’s, the king laugh¬ed, slid told him he would be mindful to cbfervehis directions.Whereupon the cobler kindled the fire, andfetched out a brown loaf, .from which he cut a Iuf~ty toall, which he fet a baking at the fire, then he| brought out his Chelhi'e cheefe: ‘Come, find he,‘ will you cat feme Chefhire cneefe ; there is as* good fellow (bin in eating as in drinking.’i bis made the king admire the honed freedomof the coblcr, fo having eaten a bit, the cobler be¬gan a health to all true hearts, and merry compa¬nions ; at which the king fmiling, faid, ‘ Good‘ merry friend, I’ll pledge thee.’In this manner they ate and drank together until. it was almoit break of day- The cobler being very1 free of his liquor, and delighting the king with fe~veral cf his old dories, in fo. much that the kingwas highly pleafed with the manner of the cbbler’sj entertainment •, when on a udden the cobler’s wifeI Joan began to awake •, ‘ I’faith,’ fa^s the cohier,‘ you mulb be gone, my wife Joan begins to grum-4 ble, (he will awake prefently, and 1 would not* for half the fnoes in my Ihop Ihe would find you* here.’ VSo taking the king by the hand, he led him upHairs, faying, 4 Farewel honefl Blade, it fhall net4 be long before 1 make a holy-day, and come toI 4 fee thee at court.’4 You fhall be kindly welcome,’ replied the king.1 So they parted, the king on biS way to White¬hall, and the cobler to his cellar, and there havingput ail things to rights before his wife Joan got up,he fell to work again, whiffling and finding as mer¬ry as he ufed to do, being much latisfi-d thar hehappened oh fo good and jovial a companion, andftiii careffing himfelf in his thoughts, how merryhe fhould be wnen he came to court.6 THE HISTORY OF THEC H A P. III.How the cobler prepared himfelf to go to court, andhow he was fet out after the bell manner by hiswife Joan.NO W as foon as the king came home, he fentorders out about the court, that if any oneenquired for him, by the name ot Harry Tudor, theyfhould immediately bring the per fen before him,whatever he was, without any iurther examinationof him. Now the cob’er thought every day a monthtill he hid been at court to see his new acquaint¬ance, and was much troubled how he {hould getleave of his wife Joan, for he could not go withouther knowledge, becaufe he refolved to make him-ielf as fine as he could, and the wife always keptthe key of his holiday clothes.» AVhereupon, one evening, as they fat at fupper,finding her in very good humour, he began to layopen his mind to her, telling her the whole ftoryqf their acquaintance, and repeating over and overagain, that, 4 He was the henefteft fellow that ever* I met with/ * Hufband/quoth fhe, ‘ becaufe you‘ have been fo ingenuous as to tell me the whole‘ truth, I will give you leave to make a holiday for* this once; you {hall go to court, and I will make4 you as fine as I can/So it was agreed that he fbouid go the next day,whereupon Joan role betimes ilse next morning, tobrufh up her hufband’s holiday clothes, and to makehiru as fnug as could, wafhed and honed theIace,d band, and made his Ihoes (bine that he mightfee bis face in them : Having done this, {he madeher hufband rife and pul! off his fhirt, then Ihewalhed him with waim water from head to foot,purring cn him a clean fhirt, afterwards fhe dr< fledhim in feis holiday clothes pinning his laced bandin prim.7KING AND THE COBLER.CHAP. IV.The Coblcr’s reception at court, with the mannerof his behaviour before the King.H E Cobler, being thus fet forth, ftruttedthrough the ftreets like a crow in a gutter,thinking himfdf as fine as the belt of them all :in this manner he came to court, flaring on thisbody and that body,.as he walked up and down* andknowing no body to alk for Harry Tudor : Ac latbhe efpied one, as be thought, in habit of a fervant-rnan, to him he made his addrefs, faying, ‘ Dolt* thou hear, honeft fellow, do you know one Harry* Tudor, who belongs to the court ?’‘ Yes,’ laid the man, * follow rne, and I will* bring you to him.’With that he had him prefentiy up to the guard-chamber, telling one of the yeomen of the guard,there was one that enquired for Harry Tudor.Pieplied the yeoman, 4 I know him very well, if‘ you will pleafe go along with me, I will bring* you to him immediately,*So the cobler followed the yeoman, much admir¬ing the finery of the rooms he went through : andthinking within himfelf that the yeoman was mif-takcn in the perfon he enquired after.4 For,’ faid he, ‘ the man whom I look for, is* a plain merry honeft fellow, his name is Harry‘ Tudor, we drank two pots together not long* fince, I fuppofe he may belong to fome lard or‘ other about the court.’4 I tell you friend,’ replied the yeoman, * l know* him very well, no you but follow me, and I flial'i* bring you to him hraight.’So going forward he came to the room wherethe king was, accompanied with feveral of the no-As foon as the yeoman had put by the arras, hebles.cob'er hearing tbis} thought he had committed nole/s than treason; therefore he up with his heels andran for it, but net being acquainted with the fevc-ra! turnings and rooms through which he came, hewas {con overtaken and brought before the king,whom the cabler little thought to be the perfoti heenquired after, therefore, in a trembling condition,he fell down upon his knees, faying, ‘ May it pleafe* your Grace, may it phrale your HighnefS, [ am l* a poor cobler, and enquired for onfe Harry Tu-* dor, who is a very honeft fellow; I mended the* heel of his fiice not long fince, for which he paid‘ me nobly, and gave me tub pots to boct, but I* had him over afterwards to my cellar, where we‘ drank part of a cup of nappy ale, and were very* merry until, my wife Joan began to grumble,* which put an end to our merriment for that time,* but 1 told him I would come to the court and fee* him as foon as I conveniently could.’‘ Well,’ faid the king, ‘ Be not troubled, do* you know this honeft fellow again if you faw* him r’ The cobler replied, ‘ Yes, that 1 do from1 a thoufand:’ Then faid the king, ‘ Stand up, and* be not afraid, look well about you, peradventure* you may find the fellow in this company.’Whereupon tht cobier arofe and looked widfullyupon the king and the reft of the nobles, hut to lit¬tle or no pu> pofe; for, though he faw iomerhingin the king’s face which he thought he had feen be¬fore, yet he could not imagine him to be Harry Tu¬dor, whofe heel of his llioe he had mended, "andwho had been fo merry with him, both in the innand at his own cellar.He therefore told the king, ‘ He did not expe£fc* to find Harry Tudor among fuc’n fine folks as he* faw there; but that the perfoii he looked for was‘KING AND THE C OTLEH. w* a plain, Vfioneft, and true-hearted feilow.* Addin"with il, that he was fure that did Harry Fudor butknnsv that * he was come to contt, h.i would make‘ him vc 'V welcome.’ At which i’peech of the cob-ier's the king had much ado to forbear laughing out¬right, but keeping his countenance as Heady as diecould, he faid tt> the veoman of the guatd, ‘ fie^e‘ take this honeil cohler down into my cellar, anti‘ let him drink my h*a!th, and I will give orders* thgt Harry Tudor fhall came to him prefently,’^So away they went, the cooler ie,.<dy to iejp otrtc* his (kin for joy, nor only that he came fo we!! oil,bat alfo, chat he Ihould hnd his friend Harry Tudor,CHAP. V.The cobier’s entertainment in the king’s cellar: howhe met with his new friend Han y Tudor, andhow he came to know'him to be the king.TH E cobler had not been long in the king’scellar, before the king came to him in thefame habit he had on when the cobler mended hisfliofe, whereupon the cohler knew him and ran ancikilTed hjm, faying, ‘ Honeft Harry, I have made* a holiflay on purpofe to lee you, but I had much* ado to get leave of my wife, who was loth that‘ I Ihould lofe fo much time from my work, but* I was refolved to fee you, I therefore made my-‘ fdf as fine as I could, but I’ll tell you Harry,4 when I came to the court, I was in a peck of4 troubles how to find you out, but at laft I met4 with a man who told me he knew you very well,4 and that he would bring me to you, but inftead4 of doing fo, he brought me before the king, which4 had almolt affrighted me out of my feven fenfes j4 but good friend, added he, I am refolved to be,I merry with you, fisce I have had the good for-'* tune of meeting with you at laft.’io THE HISTORY OF THE* Ay, that you fhall,’ reply’d the king, * we’ll4 he as merry as princes.' With that he called for |a large glafs of wine, and drank to the cobler, theking’s good health; faid the cooler, ‘ Honeit Harry |* I will pledge thee with all my heart.’ Now afterthe cobler drank about four or five good healths, hehtgan to be merry. and fell a fkiging hia old fongsand catches, which pleafed the king very much, andmade him laugh heartily: when on a fudden, feve-ral of the nobles came into the cellar, extraordina¬ry rich in apparel, who (toed bare at Harry Tudor, jwhich put the cobier into a great amazement at jfirlf, but recovering himfelf, he looked more will- Ifully upon Harry Tudor, when prefsmly he knewhim to be the king whom he faw in the prefence-chamber, though in another habit, fie immediate¬ly fell upon his knees, faying, 4 May it pleafe your 14 Grace, your Higlmefs^ I am an honeft poor cob- |'4 ler and mean no harm.’4 No, no faid the king, nor fhall you receive any* here.’ He commanded him therefore to rife upand be as merry as before, that he (hould ufe thefame freedom with him as he did before when hemended the heel of his (hoe. This kind fprech ofthe king’s, and three or four glades of wine more,made the cobier to be in as good humour as he wasbefore; telling the king feveral of his pretty (lories,and Tinging fome of his bed fongs, very much tothe fatisfaction of the king and all the nobles.The COBLER’S SONG in the KING’S CELLAR.Tune—Jenny Gin.CO /If E let us drink the other pottOur for rows to confound sWe'll laugh and fi g before the kingtSo let his health go round:reKING AND THE COELER.For I'm as bold as b~Ad can be,No cob'er e'er tv as rider,Then here, gi'd fellow, here's to thesfRenumber Harry Tudor.When Tm at work within my [sail,Upon him I /hall think;His klninefi / to mind will call,Whene'er / eat or d> ink.His kindnefs wa; to me fo great.The like wa never known ;His kindnefs I will ftill repeat,A'ul ft /hall mv wife Joan.I'll laugh when i fit in my flail,A-d merrily will fing;That l with my poor iafl and awl.Am fellow with the king.But it is more l mutt confefs.Than I at firfl did know,Bui Harry Tudor ne'er the left,Re/olves it fhall be foAnd now far ewe l unto Whitehall,l homew ard mufl retireTo hug and whijlle in my flail.My Joan will me deft e.1 do but think how (he will laugh,When fhe hears of this thing ;Hew he who drank her nut brown aleWas England’s royal King.CHAP. VI.How the Cobler became a Courtier.NO W the kyig confidering the pieafant hv»mour of the cobler, how innocently merr^he was, and free from any deligns; that he was apsrfon that laboured very h-ird, and took a greatdeal of pains for a fmail livelihood; was pleafed, out* 2 THE HI 3 TORT OF THEof h’-s princely gnce ard favour, to allow him aliberal annuity of fort? merks a year, for the betterfutvporf of hta jolly hu nour. and the maintenanceof his 'wife Joan, and ttm hit flronid be adinittgdone of bis couriers, and might Have freedom of hiscellar whene/er he pleafed } xvaictj being fo mushbeyond expetlatto.n. du! highly esait’the cobier’shumour, n»uch' to the f.nistdctiorv of the king.P A R- TC H 'A P.Of the Coblcr’s return from.Court, to his wife Joan,aiadof thecomicnldifcourfe that pail ori ween them.ClHriftopher Crifoin, for fo 'as th cooler namedA wi’ h whom king H nrythe eighth had madehimfelf fo exceeding familiar: this coVer, I fay. har¬ing been at court, where he made »tnv*» mirth, andwas much p.ade of for the mirth that he made, re¬turned home in the afternoon fnil fraughtrd withwine, and wonderful expeftationst his heart andhead being light, he went capering along, flingsngup his cap, crying, ‘ Long live Harry I'ud'or, long■ * live Harry Tudor,’ with a hundred boys at bisheels, hooping and hallowing; bis wife, (landingat the door, and feting him prancing along in Incha poiture, immediate;)’ put on one or her accui-; _ tor.ied crabbed looks, crying, ‘ High titie, What’s* come to you now? Pil Harry Tudor you with as vengeance ? was it for this that I dreit you up in„ * pimlleo, in ali your belt apparel, to have you‘ come, home like; one juii out qJ Bedlam t’ ‘ Peace* wife,' quoth the cobler, ‘ /or I am upon prefer-.* men’, 1 am promifed to be made a courtier, to at* 1 am.’ ‘ A coiirtier, quoth Joan, ads-foot, ruocec- likely a cuckold, you drunken fcoundrei.’*Wr!TIKG AND THE C03LER. 13‘ Kj-y, quoth the cobler, ‘ You mull: knowc that u Irom you l mull have that tavour if it‘ h“- -nferred upon me.* ‘ Ceafe your prattinar,’quo-h Joan, ‘ and get you to bed that you may* rift ;n the morning and fall to your bufinefs, for* this courfe of life will never do ’ With thefe andother like reprimands, fhe conquered poor Crifpin,v.rha for quietnefs* fake forthwith w-nt to bed,where we will leave him to faite his rerl Lee usnow reiurn to the court, and fay fomething of whatpaft between the king, queen, and nobles, relatingto that day s com:eal adventure.‘ CHAP. IT.How the Queen.upon hearing much mirth at court,came with her maids of honour to kne v the caufethereof, and how cardinal Wolfey.that proud pre-late,' curbed the King, for being, as he faid, toofree with a poor Cobler.N O W it is to be noticed, that the cobler wast '** no fooner gone, but the king, wi:h his nobles,began to renew their mirth, by rehearfntg the ma¬ny comical fancies and pleafant pranks with whichthe colder entertained them ; and what added themore to their recreation and fport, was a certainlord who put himfelf into a country habit, andimitated the cobler fo to the life, that the king andthe red of the nobles fell into a fit of laughter,which lafled for a confi ierable time without anyintermi'lion; whereupon the queen, with h r maidsof honour., came to enquire the caufe of inch ge¬neral mirth.‘ My liege,’ faid the queen, ‘ I am glad to hear* you and your nobles fo merry; and would be as* glad to know what fancies have been the oceafiou* of fo much laughter.’ ‘ My Lady,’ quotii theking, ‘ we have had the company of a.comical cob-* Jer, the like of whom never came to court mice14 THE HISTORY OF THE* the conqueft; for his downright honefl iimplici-* ty has afforded us much piltime ’ Then fud thequeen, ‘ I wifh I h^d been there to have been par-* taker of this mirth.’ Then the king replied, 1 It* may not be too late as yet*, for I will contrive‘ with the very firft ooportunity, to give you a fight* of him under fome difguife ? by which we will* foon have, new proofs of his pleafant paftime.’But then faid the proud prelate cardinal Wo’fey,* How do thefe frolicks agree with your kingly dig-* nity ? what will your friends and allies fay, when* th-v will hear how you converfe and take pleafure* in the company of a poor cebler ?’ ‘ Why,’ faidthe king, 4 VVolfey, have you not heard of the in«* duftrious bee, that extracts honey as well from* the meaceft fiowersk as the richeit bloffoms? ande if fo, why may no.' I experience the fidelity of my* people by cohverfing with a poor cooler, as well‘ as i may by the crafty policy of a proud cardinal ?’This choak’d pear (topped the mouth of cardinalWolfey, whitli the king, queen, and nobles, purfu-ed their mirth to the height of their fatisfa£Uon.C H A P. III.How theCobler the next morning was thunder-ftruckby his wife, and how upon (inging a new fongwhich he had made, (he once took him to ccrammins. With many other things very remarkable.YOU may remember how the cobler at his fro-lickfpme return home from court, was fum-mon d to bed, by the Itrict orders of Joan his com¬manding wife, where he flept fecure till towards themorning; at which time ‘he awaked him with thethunder-clap of, 4 Thou drunken Twin-, and whim-‘ fical wood-cock, is it not time to rife? Is this the‘ courfe of life you intend to leadat which wordsthe poor cohler awakened, and that he might getout of the hearing of this curtain leClure, he leapedSING AND THE COBLER. 15out of b^dy put on his clothes, an-J his confideringcap; fo porting away to hts Stall he fell to work up¬on bis old (hoes and boots, as fierce as a fury, andas blyfch as a bird in. the returning fpring ; pleafinghis fancy with a fong of bis own making.HIS SONG.THOUGH new 1 fil within my ft allyOld fhoes and dippers mendingsI to the court fhali have a callyThere ii my hope depending.I do net value crufly Joan.Though once in tears I ■moo'd hertl have the favour 'tf well known,Of hene[l Harry Tudor.He gives me forty merks a year, .Iff Inch is a deal of .trea/ure :Be tides all fhi~ there is no fearof having courtly pleafure.I wifh old Joan (he would die.Though once with tears I woo'd her ;I’d go to court and there live by, 'My dear friend Harry Tudor.Now whilrt the cobler was making himfdf mer¬ry with fioging this new made fong, Joan fucldenlys chop’d upon him, and hearing him mention .the|( name of Tudor falutes him in this manner, £ hitI* you drunken fcoundrel! are you got to tudoring it* again! 1 thought von had got enough yerterday.^ * Come down to hre/kfaft, you blockhead.* Withthat he immediately follows her like a patient man,whilrt flie continued fcolding in this manner, ‘ I‘ need not afk you whether or not you met with* your pot-companion, for 1 think you gave me full* enough proof that yom did by the drunken con-' * dition you came home in; l think you told me heI * was fomething of a courr;er,J?ut I rather cake himI ‘ to be a carman, or a drunken porter, Pray where’s!v5 the history oy the* tHe money you carried out with you? you ha9fourptnce halfpenny of me, that I let you have outof my own pocket, hecaufe I would have you ap¬pear like a man; and befides what vou took of* Jobnfon the old joiner, and likewife of Simon* Soufecrown the fuller, for two pair of heel-piec-* es, and now come let me fee what you have left ?'alas, faid the cobler. ‘ Mv friend was fp far from* letting me fpend any thing, rhat he has given rae* what may be the making of you and me ’ * Why* hnfban l,’ quofb Joan, ‘ What has he given yon?’ |* Whv, to tel! you the truth, my fweer Wife, he* has fertled forty merks on you and me, and,* as a fure token or his goodnefs, he has given me* th“fe two broad pieces oT gold ’ ‘ 0 rhe,’ quothJoan, ‘ did 'hy friend give thee all this ? Well,* God’s MyHlng.on hjs loving heart, he’s an honelt j* fello .v I'll warrant him * ‘ Who do you call fel-* low’’ quoth her hufband. ‘ he rhat is fo particular* a friend of mine, is no worfe a perfon than our* gracious king Henry, apd, were he to know what* you have faid ,of him to me, you might happen‘ to dine upon the fruir of hempfeed. hy which* means I might be rid of a Oirew* ‘ Sweet huf-c band, quoth Joan. ‘ pardon what I have faid tbro9* my ignorance, and never divulge my unfortunate4 fayings, as you love me and I will never fcold* nor call you ilj names for the future during my* life.’ * Be fure,’ quoth be, ‘ you keep your pro-* mire, and I will affure you that all-wili be well,’C H A f TV.How the King took to hic.teif the title of a Tanner,and came to the Cobler to fell him a piece of lea- 'ther, and how the queen in the diigaife of a coun- 1try maid, parted for his kiufwom vn, who wanted ifervice, with other paffages of very much mirth. ,KING Henry, as you have heard promifed the 'Queen that fhe fhould be accommodated with 1KING AND THE COBLER. 17Torre of tlv: eobler’s flgarks, nov/ his care was Lowto make good his promife ; that is to fay, how hemight bring himfelt into tne cobler’s company with¬out the honeft ccbler knowing who he was. Manythoughts came into his head, but amongtt the reft,one he refolves upon, which is this The king Tendsa horfc and man down into the country, there tobuy leather fit for fnoe-malters, and to fend it toLondon by the carrier, who came to the lame rr.n,which was over againft the forefaid cobler. I biswas accordingly cone; the king, in the habit"of aplain country man, came to the inn with his Qeeen,who, in the drefs of an innocent country maiden,pad for a kinfwoman ; he pafling for a tanner thatw;s come to receive and fell the leather. The king,having paid the carrier for bringing his parcel,calls for feme of the belt liquor the houfe afford¬ed ; which being brought, he aikecl the inn-keep¬er whether or not he could help him to a chapmanfor his leather? who anfwered, ‘ There is an honeft‘ fellow a cobler'ovtV tile wajr, I’ll fend for him,* he’ll either buy it, or help you to a chapman for‘ it no doubt.* ‘ Pray thee, fend for him,’ quoththe King. Whereupon the cobler was called, whoI came capering like a morice-dancer, faying, ‘ Who‘1 * wants me ?’ ‘ This gentleman,’ fard the inn-keep-■ er, 4<>has a parcel of leather to fell.’ I’ll buy it/s quoth the cobler, ‘ if it be for my turn.’ Now hav-| ing looked over it, he afked the price: the king* notjk knowing w hat it was worth, alked him fody flnl-il lings, ‘ Marry,’ quoth he, ‘ t wifh you may have!j ‘ come honellly by it, for though I am the buyer,1 ‘ I muff needs tell yen, it is worth much more/* That is neither here nor there/ quorh the king,* I am for felling it off, which .when I have done,* I don t think to deal in leat her for the future any‘ more, for 1 am for a place at the court, and this‘ young maid my kinfwcman, is likewife dtfirousiS THE HISTORY OF THE* to wait on fome lady.* ‘ Marry,’ quo^h the cob¬ier, ‘ if it be fo, perhaps I may uo you a piece of* fervice, for as fimp'e as I f>t here ; though I fay* it myfdx, I am weir acquainted with the King;* and as you feem to have both good honed faces,* I do prored I will do you all the good i Can, that‘ I will; and there's my hand on the fame.5 ‘ Thou* fayed well,’ quoth the King, ‘ and if thou do me* any kindnefs, I do not matter if 1 give thee that* leather as a reward of thy goodnefs; and fo here’s* to thee,’ ‘ I thank thee,’ quoth the cobier, andby the time he had drunk three or four carcufes, his jheart grew light, and he told the King he wouldling him a feng of his own making. At which thequeen, when Use heard it, laughed heaitily; for hehad many jokes, and pleafant fongs; he delighted ,the queen more than any thing die had feen or metwith in her life. At length it grew toward noon,the cobler was for going" with them towards thecourt; but he mud drefs himfelf, for he would notappear before the king in his cobler’s clothes, forail the dices in his diop.CHAP. V.How the King invited the Cobler and his wife todinner, and the difeoutfe that pafled thereupon.* H E cobler being gone, the king turned h:m-ftli to the queen, faying, ‘ How like you‘ th'.- converfaticn of this con ical Grilpin ?’ I he rqueen laid, * right well, btfides I fet foniething of i* a principle in him, which in rr,y judgement, feems i* tc ouifhine his poverty; for, my liege, when you i* Offered the leather to him at a low price, he let ;< \ou know it was worth much more, and theretore i*’ was loth to meddle with it. daring you came not i« hoiitdly by it; »nd what i ohlcrved in him is i* that he had a light heart, brifk and merry; and [* for ought I know, enjoys more comlort in his ►KING AND THE COBLER. r9* coarfe and homely cottage, than a colonel or* courtier, with all their great accompHfhmems-’‘ Not too much of that,’ quoth the king, ‘ for* I well remember that when he had me down in-‘ to his lower cellar to drink a cup of nappy ale,4 and eat feme of his breed and' cheefe, all on‘ a fudden his wife Joan began to roufe from her4 night’s reft, and I found he began to be afr; id }4 for he faid, Friend, you muft be gone; I would4 not that Joan my wife fbould catch you here, no4 not for all-the (hoes in my (hop. And thereupon4 rather than the cobler fnould be oudgell’d by his4 wife, I got away with as great fpeed as might4 be,’ 4 My liege,’ faid the queen, 4 you were hard.* put to it.’ 4 In troth,’ quoth the king,'4 fo I was.’Then with a fmile her majefty faid, 4 I would wil-4 lingly fee her.’ 4 She fhall be fent for,’ faid theking, and thereupon called the inn-keeper-to litthem know what he would let them have for din-! ner; who told them he had a fhoulder of mutton,i which would be ready in half an hour.4 That will do,’ laid the king, 4 and therefore11 4 cal! the ccbler and hk wife, for I defire they may1 4 both dine with me.’ The inn-keeper having de¬ll livend his mefiage, Joan fet up a railing, faying,|4 What for’s this that has fent for you now? 1 fhall14 have you drunk again, that I {hall.’I4 Why,’ quoth the cobler, ‘ did you not tell me4 the other day that you would never fco’d me a-4 gain, 1-f 1 would bur kerp your counfel, and do4 you begin already ; Go put on your beit red pet-4 ticcat and waiftcoat, w'hilit 1 drefs myfelf, for I4 do not know but we may take a walk to court af-4 ter dinner ; and it will be for your credit to fee14 the king in your left apparel ’ Now Joan havinga fear for what fhe had formerly faid, doubting 'hatbe n ight out with all, peer creature, fhe was laintc bridle her unruly tongue, and turn her crabbed20 THE HISTORY OF THEfrown into a fweet and pleafant fmile ; all with o-bedicRCe to her hulband, Ihe made herfelf as fine asa London mi’k-msid upon a May-day, and Crifpinliken i-e brulhed up his-beard, and then went overwith join as pert as a pear-moneer. The king tak¬ing the glals drank to the cooler’s wife, who, fim-perlng like a firmity kettle. laid, ‘ 1 thank you Sir.’Then paffirig it to her huiband, he filled up a bum¬per and drank to the queen, with this compliment,*' Yeung woman, you are welcome to London, and‘ i don’t queilion but to help you to a fervice that* nr,y be to your lieart’s content.’Now by the time the glafs had gone round, din¬ner was ready, the cobler craved leave to fay thegrace; it was thort, and when ended the king carv¬ed for the queen and himfelf, and bade the coblerand his wile do the like. Quoth Joan, ‘ I know my‘ huflband is for the cuckold’s bit, and fo here i: is* let him have it.’ At which faying, the king andqueen fmiltd, her majefty being much more pieafedwith the rqirth than the meat, fed fparingly; atwhich the cobler merrily faid, ‘ Young woman, if* you come to dine with the fervants of a noble-‘ man’s family, adfugs, you mull lay about you bet-‘ ter than you do, or they will foon make you aa* fat as a hen in the forehead.*With "this and the like difeourfe,'they paffed a-|way the time for an hour, and the king and queenlwithdrew' into another room, there to coniurt aboutfinifhmg the comical adventure.CHAP. VI.How the Cobler was put in fear of his life, and.how he came off with flying colours.O W the king had formerly told the fecretaffof fiate, that he would fend his royal fignetto him, by a meflVnger, whom he fheulri fccure inerdtr to give an account, upon examination, howKING AND THE COBLER. 2?he came by it. Wherefore he prefegtly calls forpen, ink and paper, and writes the letter, wherein•he inclofes the fignet aforefaid ; and having direft-ied the letter, he defired the cobler to carry it, whowas ready to ferve him. Now Joan was refolved togo with him, and did fo, becaufe (he would keep;him from being drunk.They had no fooner gone out, but the king cal¬led for the reckoning, and having paid it, he and:ihis queen went privately by water to their palace,wb ere they pulled off. their difguife, and appearedin t'heir royal apparel ; the king with his nobles,and the queen with her maids of honour. By thistime the cobler and his wife delivered the letter toj:he fecretary, who opening the fame, feemed toffartle, and with a frowning countenance, faid.Behold here is the king’s fignei; how came youI by it ?’! ‘ Why,’ fays the cobler, * I had the letter, and* whatever was in it I know not, only I had theI letter from a tanner.’ The fecretary replied,| if you do not brng the tanner to me, take my? word for it, we fha’l make^ an example of you.’f Why,’ quoth Joan, ‘ you will not hang my huf-band, will ye ?’ quoth th« fecretary, ‘ It willi go hard with him it he do not lind the t^n-j ner ’ ‘ I’ll fetch him prefently,’ quoth Joan. Butcoming to the inn, and finding they were gone,poor Joan fell into a violent fit of the tanterians,(.earing her hair and wringing her hands, crying,I What will become of my poor Cobief, he will\ be hanged.’ ‘ For what ?’ faid the inr-keeper 5hut Joan had not the patience to tell him her la-nemation, crying. ‘ O the tanner, O the tanner,’ll O the tanner is gone!’ and in this conditionIaving like a fury, or like a inn a tick perfen broken>ut of bedlam ; (be ran back again to Wgftrainfter,with a multitude of men, women and children after22 THE HISTORY OF THEb?.r, who wanted to know the caufe; but Joan con* |tinued crying, * O the tanner is gone ! and my |* poor Crifpin what will become of thee?’ Which |words her hulband helard juft as fhe was entering |the door, cried, ‘ Dear Joan, have you brought |‘ thetn with you ?’ * With me,’ quoth Joan, |* no, no, they are gone, and you are left to fuff'er; |‘ row ir had been better for you to mind your <* work, than to follow every one that fends for '* you ; now you may fee what you have brought I* yourfelf to ; nothing would ferve you it feems, i1* the other day; but to be a courtier ; fuch was Si* yo^r ambitious fancy, but let me tell you if they 1' fhall have a fancy to hang you, then I may fay 1* you have made a fine work on’t, and 1 doubt‘ not but it will be a warning to you for the fu-‘ ture; I cannot but think how like a courtier* you look now in this crying melancholy condi-* tion.’While fhe was thus infulting poor Crifpin, the !king was told of thefe tranfadbions, and thereforefent that he might be brought before him, which awas accordingly done; but as the cobler approach¬ed the prefence of the King, every joint of himtrembled, for he expedled to find no favour. Now »he came before the King, who, with an angry coun¬tenance, faid, ‘ Cobler, how came you by my fig- >‘ net?' The poor Cobler, falling on his knees, andwringing his hands, cried, ‘ May it pleafe your* Grace, may it pleafe your Honour, I had it from‘ a tanner, who fent for me to the Bell in the* Strand, to buy a parcel of leather he had brought‘ out of the country.' And thereupon he told theking the whole (lory, from the beginning of theirmeeting till his fending him away with the letter.The king replied, ‘ This is a pieafant ftory, and i‘ well compacted together, but it feems you can- ■‘ not produce this tanner, wherefore Til leave you <KING AND TYHE COBLER. 25j* to the law, and if you are hanged according to'‘ law, you muft take it for yo,ur pains.'Joan, hearing the king talk of hanging, fell up-:ion her knees, crying, ‘ Good Sir King, pray Sirf King, don’t hang my poor Crifpin, I bf.feech you* he is an honelt man, and has but one fault.*^ What fault is that!’ quoth the King, ‘ May itF pleafe your Grace,’ quoth Joan, * he will not b«1 ruled by his wife, but is always ready to run a-F way like a monkey after any n?an who will give' him drink.* ‘ That’s neither hen; nor there/iiJfaid the king, ‘ he mull die; neverthelefs, as you1 * have lygged that he may not be hanged, upon the' I* word of a king he (hall not, but I will allow him: i‘ the favour to chufe his own death.’‘ Why then,’ quoth the cobler, ‘ let me die thedeath of my father and great grandfather.’ 1 Howwas that?’ quoth the king, ‘ It was on a death¬bed, and in a good old age.’ At which choicebf the cobler’s, the King, Queen, and the Nobles,>/,j aughed heartily, and Crifpin and his wife, by theting’s command, were locked un in a room half anhour, there to attend the king’s further pleafure.•'il No fooner were they again confined, but the cob¬ber, with a trembling voice, faid, * Sv/eet wife, I! wonder what the King intends to do with us now.*j^uoth Joan, ‘ Pray thee be of good comfort, I am1 perfuaded that the King is the Tanner, and thej Queen is the Kinfwoman.* ‘ Adsfoot have a care•i of what you fay, I (hall have you fpeak treafon,and then we {hall both be hanged I’faith after all.’Fear not hufband, I can fee as far into a milftoneas he that picks it, I am fure tho’ they changedtheir apparel, they would not change their com¬plexion.’ Whilfl they were in this difpute, the:ing and queen drefs’d in their former difguife, en-i cred the room, attended by nobles and maids ofuonourj at which the king faid, Crifpin, fitice you24 THE HISTORY OF, &c.cor.Jd not find the tanner, I have brought him t«you. At which words he fell on his knees and cried.Long live our gracious fovtreign king and queea»Who did their royal perfons fo demean.As in familiar fort to joke with us, •And I rejoice to find it is no worfe.‘ Arife honed cobler,’ quoth the king, ' and |' merry -be thy heart, I have tried thy patience,* and will prove thy friend, and thy forty merks I* per annum, which I formerly gave thee, (hall be* much more by my bounty.’Thou (halt have fifty pounds a-year in land,Which lies upon.the fouth fide of the Strand;I am the royal giver, thou the taker,And I wifi have it c.di’d the Cobler’s-Acre.\Poor Crifpin and his wife were tranfported withjoy at this glorious coming off, and the more at thequeen’s gift, which was a purfe of gold. They thenprefetUed the court with a comical farce, caHed,The Forked Friends,, or the Fidler and his iVijc,wherewith they finiiheff the day, to the great joyof all the beholders. Being difmiffed with great ap-plaufe, the Cobler and Joan returned home, where,in a-thort tint?, he built a row of houfes, cai-ing thephcs, The CohUrs-Acrc, according to the King’sxequed; which name continued after the Cooler'sd .ash, but at this rime it is tamed a more magnifi¬cent built.ing, and has lod its former name.Yet during life the Cobler at the court,Was well b-lov’d and freely entertain'd,Where he afforded much delightful fp art,So long as Marry Tudor liv’d and reign’d.The. King died firft, the Cob’er followed after,But not till he had often fill’d the court with laughter, jFINIS.