THEOFTHE FOUR>' ACanterbury, Colchester,Cornwall, & Cumberland,Their Queens and Daughters..BEINGThe Merry Talee of Tom HodgeAnd his School-Fellows.—OOOOOOO0OCO ooo—i II1F AL KIRPOINTED ASD SOLO BYK:T. iOKNSCOTUWD^( i )THEPREFACE.OT to detain the reader with m*nyY '^ords to little pur pole, I (lull only hereiDfrrve. That Tom Hodpe, with the rdi»f h s old companions belonging to thechool of Cockermouth, were w?. king oni very pitafant morning in Miv, and' having tired themfelves with pranks andntrigues, towarui evening they fit the::;,'elves down on a green b nk, beneath aovelv oak, where they agree amo* gft[herafrlves that every one fhouid tell aTale, or pav a fine; and btea u ft Tornwaa the eldeft fcholar, it was concludedand agreed upon that he Ihouldifirft. b"Says Tom, with all my bear!t,So I'll begin Viy part.&. ( 4 )THEMERRY TALES*>Tom Hodge.•••••• V^>t /^\NCE upon a time, when the Opinion!was common in h ngla: d that thof^,vvhofe age and experience enabled (hemto detertnine the conftquences of certaina&ion-' were + ztrds and witches; fherqwas a §>u?tn in this realm, whole namewas Ei z.»beth; and. by reifon that thefamous town of Lancailer was ftr ngeljrpefts-rtd with witches the Queen lentlonte judges down to arraijn ami try themin order to bring them to jnUke.Now the news of this court being tobe kept in Lanc^fter, fpread through all]t. e country, fo that a hi fbandman living inear forty mi es from that place, hearing iof this news, and believing they were iicome to tell the folk- whether the* were |iwi ches or not, refolved to go to b-; fa if-fi t in himfelf, for he was poff ffed witha tear that he was a witch, becaufe heh^d a wart gstw on his neck, which heimagined to be a dug.I is); ilis wife, who had a f» lend in a corner*d w/as therefore plad of his abfence,I i not only give her confent, but aiioleft him in his bed leathern fuit af’dload brim’d hat—So taking leave fI s good wife J jan, he trudged on day«d night un.ii he came to the placei here the court was kept: fo ruihing onid prefling through the crowd, the crierI" the court believing him to be fomei I'tdence, immediately gave orders that'ey fhould let him in; which was foonime. and he was r quired to fpc k whatft had to fay. Why, fays the coumry-an, d’ye fee, I’ve a dug upon my neck,tiich makes me afraid 1 am a witch,d volks tell me, that thefe vine gentle-nen, pointing to the judges, can tell arbdy whether one is a witch or no.—: he crier of the court feeing the ftmplUntv of the man, laid, No, no, my friend,i jican aff -re thee thou art no witch: thou,-tuokefl more like a cuckold than a witchsff a conjuror I thank you z ir; and zo; uys thefe vine gentlemen Then havingsiven three or four fcrapes, and half a> z:*n congees, he name back as wife asiVil ham’s calf. The next day he wasiiet by his wife, who waited for his re-irn at thetowa’s end, to whom fhe faid,Weils1'' Ii( 6 )Well hvfbard v.bat do tne jrentlemeflare you a witch or no? A v,itcfwect wife, no; they tells a body onelocks mere like a cuckold than a witchor s cor juror* Why fay you fo. reyl'tc .Ire I prithee go back e nd have them takepp'Up for u'l'chts; for except they had beerfp, they would rot have known you werefc cuckold.Tins merry tale fo pleafed them thaijthey let up a i:earty h ugh, which beinc 1erdtd the fecond bov be»an nts tale irthe follow ir^g rrranr.euT A L E II.In the days of vote, when this land war .goverrrd bv mnrv kings arn> rg the ref >tht king (ft anterbnrv had zn only daugh 1ter, and ihe was wife fair, nrd beautifulijrfler father lent forth a decree, that whoever would watch one night with h'lijsdaughter, ard neither fletp nor flun bet!he ft ould have her the «ext day in r afiriage; brt if he d d either he fhouid iof shis l ead. Many Knights and Squirtsafton pita it, but lofl thrir heads.{ 7 )| Now it happened, a young (hephefdgrazing his flocK nesr the ro&d, (aid to;iis raaSter, Z ir, I see many geatleinem>:nde to the court at Canterbury, but ne’eriee ’em return ag»in O thepheru! (aid:iis mailer, 1 know not how you (hould;or t iey attempt to watch with the Kv g’s'i .1 ughter, accordiag to the decree and3 not performing it, they are aU beheaded.> Well, faid the fhepherd, I’ll try myt Norton ; zo now vor a king’s daughter ora headlefs (hspherd. And taking his bot-. ;le and bag, he trudg’d to court. Now,:tn his way he was to crofs % river, overr which lay a plank down he fits,and pullst off nis (hoes and (lockings to waih hss feet.(Idell ’he fmt!! of his toes might be theSfmeans of keeping her awake: while ho«Avas walhing his feet, a d(h came duellingii and biung his toes, he caught it and put it3 into his bag: after which came a fecond,3 a third, and a fourth, which he caught and; put in his bag like wife; this done, andn dried his feet, he put on his ftecki^s and’illhoes, and purlued his journey till he cameoto the palace, where he knocked loudlyi with his crook: he was no fooner let ia,and Having told his bufmefs, but he wasi! conduced to a hall, prepared for that pur-ci pole, where the king’s daughter fat readyI 8 )to receive f ira; and the better to lullh;s icnlei he as placed in a rich eafychair, having delicious wines for h;s {'up¬per, with many fine difhes of fruit, &c.ot w 'cn the (hrpherd eat and crank p en-tifully. infonuich that he began it flun.berbef re m'ninig' t. O iht p erd i-ici theladv, I have eaupht you n ippiog ? No*,sweet ail) , I was b fy : at what? laid Ihe :W-iv a-‘eelhing. Nay ilupherd, there isno nih-perd in the hall No matter vorthat, I have been f«:.t Iho n- ^5ay< the lady,where do you fid ? O q imh ne, in mybig. O mu hi',e you cacch’d e’er a one?Ay, l;.*d fa 1J he. Id willingly fee it,r<. plied Hie, Ay, a n’t pleafe vcu. you fhallv;ithallmy liear . l ids faid hu flyi\ drewone of the fiihts out of the bait at ihc fightot which llte wasgrfa’lv pleafed and prais¬ed it for a pretty fiih; and, wi hal laidDear Shepherd, do you think you couldcatch one in mme roc ? Ay, ay, doubtlels1 cah. Then fhe 1> ing according to his-dire&ions, he fell to filling, and, in a fliorttime drew a feeoed fifh or t of the bag pre¬tending he drew it from her. The king’sdaughter was fo pleafed with it. that fhekilled it, declaring it was the finefl flie everf»w. iVnd fcbouth’ lf^nhcur after, fhe faid,Shepherd, do you think you could Jfct meene{9)mo.-.’? He anfwered, M*v hap I may.’ V/he; I ave baited my hook Then maket ihall tor Ian impatient till I have another:Then .he fhepherd sfted as before, andfo pref.nted her with anotner fi(h . which3 Ihe alio extolled and praiied, laying, itt was ten tiAvs finer than the other; andi then give him leave' to fl • p, pronilflngto excufe him to her fattier.In the morning, the king came intoi the ball as ufiul, followed by the headf-m n. with a ha chet; but the lady criedi out, You may return with your hatchet,: bere is no work for you. How fo, faidthe king, has he neither flumber’d nor« :pt? N~ royal father he has not. Howi has he employed himfeli? In fifhing.—f Whr,thereisoeverafilh-ponG; wheredid! he _atch them! One in his own bag, andi two in this one of mine. Say you fo ?* Wei), friend, dolt thou think thou can’llt catch one in mine? An’t pleafe you, my'f ^Wge,I believe I con Then directing himto lie«on his belly, he pocked him with» packing needle, which made him cryout exceedingly; ,at which time he drewthe other fifh out of the bag, and (hewed itto the king His Majefty faid, He neverknew (uch fort of fiihingbefore, however,i take my daugnter, according to my royaldecree:>'•Vi'(*«( 1© )decree: and fo they were married, amthe “'eddinj; kept n great triu iph, *ndthe ihepnerd became a king’s fon.O that was mighty well, laid the thirdboy. he had wonderlul tood fortune —Tnis puts me in mind of a ftory, which1 will now tell in my turn.TALE III.lelmay believe my old grand mother,there lived in the county of Cumberland,a nobleman, who had three ions, two ofthem were comely and tail youths, wileand learned: the third a merry fool, and jwent often in a party-coloured co.»t andileeDle-crowned hat, at the top of whichwas a talLl- in thisdrel's he made a comi- jcal figure At this time the king ol Can- It!terbury had a fine daughter, adorned withsll tire gifts of nature, joined to an ingeni¬ous education, Ihe being very ripe witted,as appeared by her ready anlwers, and thecomical queftions file put forth The kinghecjfather pub’ufii d a decree, that whoeverfhould come to the court, and anfwer idsdaughter three quefttons, without tludy 03flu mb*( I* )i {umblin?, fhould ha e her in mtrriaae,md ilfo be hs?r to the crown *r hisdrce ife.)i puolifliing this decree, the fYid gentle-na «*s two ions agreed between themlelves»pgo and try how tavocaable fortune miaht5 e to them in tnis undertaking; bat alliheir care was, wiiat they fhouid do vithleir fiilv brother J >ck; for, as they faid,i f he follows us, he will out with fomeoolifh bolt, and fo fpoil our bufinefs. At; ;ngth it was agreed n going to the court,I J sro out of the back door', which led to■ le road over feverat fields, about a milet rom the hoafe. Tney did fo but were■ o fooner got into the highway, bat l> ok-yg behind they faw their hrotner j-ckoming capeiing and darcing afier them,lying, with a loud laughter, So you areoing to get a king’s daughter, but I willurlue you I'hey faw there w*s no way>!> get rid of him, but by walking fall, and■ saving him bihind, hopi g thereby to getnatraace before Jack, and then have the•#tes (hut sgainlt him. They had notibne half a mile before Jick ret up a greatlx ol laugnter; at which one of his broth-t ‘s faid, '.Vhat’s the fool found out now?why, I’ve tound an egg. Put it in thypocket,f la )pocket, faid his brothers. Adad, and-To '1 *vdl, fays J'ick. Prerently after ht wastaken with another fit oflaughter. What’sthe fooi found now? What have I found,fays Jack! why a crooked dick. Theybid him put that in Ins pocket aifo. Ay,marry, will I. They had not walkednujch farther, before Jack burft into a jigreater fit of laughter than before. Hisbrohers faid, What’s the fool found now ? jFound, why an orange: Put that in yourpocket likcwife. I intend it, fays Jack.Now, by this time they were come nearthe palace-gate, at which they no foonerknocked but they were admitted. But;.|JrCk n“Vttr (lecu for ccrc~Ghies. hot r»through the midtl of the court, and as theWife brothers were making their addreffes,Jack was laughing at the laoies; untowhom he faid What a troop of fur Udiea |are go; here! O yes, yes, faid the King’sdaughter, who was among them; we arefair lidi s.for we carrv fire in our bofom.D ) you ? laid Jick : then roaft me an eggHow will you get it out again ? By a crook¬ed flick which l have. Av you will iaidfits. I have it in my po^k;t, lavs J»ck,In this Jack anf.veaed the three q iefbonspvopofed. Then he was preferred to thathonour which vras mentioned in thedecree.His1( 13 )His two wife brothers then went homelike two fools, *ud left foolilh J h to bertvt-renced at co^rt, with the hang’s fairdaughter.Said the fourth boy. This verifies theold Proverb, 'roolt have Fortune ;i it has put me in mind of a Itory that was>; told me by my aunt.it ; i : 'i1..ji ■TALE IV.•H • ~Long before Arthur, and ths K ightaii of the Round Table, here reigned in the; i eafterly part of this land, a Kmg * ho keptH his court at Colchelter: He was witty,j: ftrong and valiant, by which means hei fubdued tfts euemies abroad, and plantedi j peace among his fuojedls at home. 1||Neverthelefs, in the midfl of all his. n earthlv glory, hi: q een died, leaving be¬ll hind her an only daughter, about fifteenf ye.rs of age under the care of her royal«i h< ft>»nd. I’nis lady, from her courtlycarrihge, beauty and afLbiuty. was the■ « wonder of all that knew her; but, asJj covetoufnefs is toe root of all evil, fo itill happened here.( 14 )T' e km!? hearing of a LaHy who hadlik^wife an only daughter, for the fakeof her riches had a mind to marry her;though ihe was old u^ly, hook-no ’d andh^mf-back’d, ) et all could not deter himfrom marrying her. Tht daughter of thefaid piece of deformity was a yellow dow¬dy, full of envy and ill-nafure; and, infhorr, vas much of the fame mould as hermother. This fignified nothinng. for ina few weeks the king, attended by the no¬bility and gentry, brought the laid pieceof deformity to his palace, where the mar¬riage-rites were performed. Long theyhad not been in the court, before they fetthe king again!! his own beautiful daugh¬ter, which « as done by faife reports andscciifations. The roimg pringefs havingloft her lather’s love, grew weary of thecourt, and on a certain day meeting * ithher fuller in tne garden. Ihe dTired himwi'h tears in her eyes, to give her a fmallfubiiftence, anci Hie would go and fe k herfortune; to which the king confirmed andordered her mother-in-law to make upa fmall fum, according to her diferetion.To her file went, who gave her a canvasbag of brown bread, a hard cheefe wi’ha bottle of beer; though '.his was bat aycry pitiful dowry for a king’s daughter,i?he( I5 )She took it, returned thanks, and To pro¬ceeded. paffini; through groves, woods,an*, viheys till at length sr.e f*w an oldman fitting on a Itonei, at the mouth of acave, who laid Good-morrow, fair m- ;d-en whit er awav fo fall? Ajrd father,f \ s ahe, I am going to feek my fortune.Wnat haft thou in thy bag and bottle?In my bag I have got bread and cheefe;and in my bottle goad fmall be^r; willyou pleafe to partake of either? Yes,laid he, with all my heart. With that thelady pull’d out her pf ovifion, and hid himeat and welcome. He did, and gave hermany thanks, telling her there was a thickthorny hedge before her, which will ap¬pear to you impaff.,ble, but take this wandin your hand, ftrike tnree times, and fay,Tray hedge, let me come through; and itwill open immediately: Then a littlefurther you will find a well, fit down onthe brink of it, and there will come upthree golden heads which will fpeak: andwhat they require, that do. Then pro-mifing she would, she took her leave ofhim. Coming to the hedge, and follow¬ing the old man’s directions, the hedgedivided, and gave her a pillage: Thencoming to the well, she had no fooner fit-ten down, but a golden hs^d same up withft( i6 )ft lingincf r>ofe, Wme, comb me layrnedown fbftly; Yes, i*id theyo ing ladv :then put ing forth her hand, with a filvercomb performed the office placing it upt ha primrolebink Then c*me upaTecoi d,and a third, faying as the former, which(he comp'ied with; and then pulling outher provifion, ato her ainne'-. Fhen laidthe Heads one to another, What flul! wedo for this ladv, who hatn ufed us fovery kindly? The firft f*id. I will caufefuchftddition to her beauty as Iball charmthe molt powerful prince in the world.The fecond faid I will endow her withfuch perfume, both ia body and breath*• e iiill (mm ^\Mr0t£*rs»((Toe third faid, My gift fhill be none ofb aft, for as Ihe is a king’s daughter;I’ll make her fo fortunate, that fhs fhailbecome queen to the greated prince thatreigns. This dona, ftt their requeft Hielet them down into the wall again, and foproceeded on her journey. She had nottravelled long, before the law a k ng hunt,ing in the park with his nobles; fhe wouldhave Ihunned him, but the king having afight of ever, made towards her, and be¬tween her bemty and perfumed breath,was fo powerfully fmitten that he wasoot able to fubdue his paffion, but pro¬ceeded1IIHII( I7 )ceedfd on hi; couuihip, ^ here, nfterfomecon phmentsandkjnd embraces, he gained *her love. And bri< g ngher to his palace,he caufed her to be clothed in the mollma^t ificent manner.This eing ended, and the king findingthat Ihe « as tht kingo1 Co!chtlkr’sd*ugh-ttr,ordcret fop t chatiocs tt' be go r acy,that he might pa\ him a vifi, hhe cha¬riot. in whic the king ar.u queen rode,was beautified with rich ornatrttntai gemscf gold. l h kit'g her father » a^ ar firftalU nifiied that his daughter had been f©fortunate as Ihe was till the young kingr *de him I'enfible of all th;->t rappened.Great was the jov at court among the no¬bility, except the queen and her club-fo< t-ed daughter, wlvo were ready to burft w ;thmalice,and envied ! er happirefs; and thegreater was their madnefs becaule Ihe wasrow above them all. Great rejoicings,with fealiing and dancing, continued manydays. Then at lengt ., with the dowryher father gave her they returned home..Well, faid the fifth boy, had Ihe notbeen kind and beautiful, fuch good for¬tune had never come to her lot. Andpray what became of l er hun p-back’dlifter-in-law ? Indeedldonotknow. Whythen, faid the fifth boy, I can tell you *fsmething of her.She perceiving that her fider was fatiappv .n ieekicg her fortune, woveld needsdo rhe lame; fo difc)ofiivl> her mind to hermother, all preparations were made ; notonly rich appare' but i’wett-meats, iugar,almonrls, &.o. in great quantities, a d alarge buttle of M iaga la. k. Thus fur¬nished, she went the ;ame foad as her lifter,and coming near the cave, there f«t theold m -n, wno laid. Young o : an whither -fofaft? What is that to voupfaid she;Tnenfaid he. What have you in your bagand bottlv ? She anfwered. Good hings,which you shall not b troubled with.Won’t you give me tome faid he } No,not a bit nor a drop, uniefs it would ehoakyou- The old man frowned, laying Evilfortune attend thee. Going on, she ca e ||to the hedge, through which she efpted agap, where she thought to pafs, but goingin the hedge doled, and the thorns runinto her flesh, fo that with great difficultyshe got out. Being n«w in a blood’- con-dit on, she looks for water o wash h rfelf-and looking round she faw a well, and fi ¬ling down, one of the Heads came up toher l|i( *9 )ipher, fay;rg Wash me, comb me, lay m£do-v n iotiiy B jt she ban^; d it with herbo t e, faying Hang you t;k_ this foryour a as ing So the ftcond and thirdHeads came up, and met with no bett rWe lcome than th firli Wnereupcn theH .aus conl'dtcd among t tmielves, whatevils to p acue her wit- for inch uiage.Tnc firtt laid, Let her be itiuck with le-proh in her fane. The fecund iaio, Letan c-dduiotial iimk be 'deed to ner bream.H he t< trd beUoAed on ner a hufbind, tho*but a poor ec u try*cobier. 1 his done,she goes on till shcCaine to a marke - own,and it being m arket-day, he people lnich'da ft.i'k. and feeing fuch a mangy lace, allHid, but a poor cobler who not long be¬fore had mended the sh- ts of sn old her-mit, who having no money, gave him abox of ointment lor the cure of the lepro-fy, and a bottle of fpirits ior a {linkingbreath. Now the cebltr having a mindto do an act of charity, was minded to tryan exptrin ent; to going up to her, . fk dher who she was ? 1 am. laid she. the Kingof Co chefter’s daughter-in-law. W ell,faid the Gohler. It i reflore you to yournatu al compit xion. and make a (oi ndcure both in lace and breath, w ill you inreward take me lor a ht fbacd ? Yes, friend,replied( 2® )replied fhe, with all my heart. With thistheCubier applied the remedies and theyworked the in a few weeks, whichb'i'mji d.me. they were married. Afterfo e few days fpent in town, they fet for¬ward for the court a Coicheiter. Atlengthcoming there, and the queen underftandirgIht had married notr.ing buta poorCobler,fell i to di !ra£t on. and in wrath hangedherlelf. The death of the queen pleafedthe king much, who w*s giad ne had gotr d of her fo foon. Having buried her,hr gave the Cobler one hundred pounds,on condition that he and his lady wouldqm: the Court,, The Ct bier received it,and promtfed he would: then fetting uphis trade in a remote part of the kingnom,they lived many years, he mending (hoes,and fhe fpinning thread.Qjoth the fixth hoy, Ithinkforak'ng«’sdaughter the hath fpun a very fine thread,But now for my fiory.• ^. -«"^v .ItTALE VI.• ,1A Tinker in our town had b ft onedaughter, whofe name was Tib, and be-caufe her father would not let her marry* miller’s mao named Jobfon, nothingwould^rould ferve h®r but fhe muft go a^d feekher fortune; fo over hills ^nd mo -iitains,through groves and lonefome woods Ihefaffed, till at U;ng h Ihe met with an oidivoman, who faid unto Tib. Where areyou going? To feek fervice. fa^s Tib.Will you live with me, replied the oldwoman? my family is finall, myfelf, mycat, and my dog. Tib anfwered, with allmy heart. So heme thev « ent to her cot¬tage, which flood by the fide of a . roveon the bank of a pleafant river. She nofooner entered in at the door, 'han Hieb-rheld the (helves fur> iftied with aound-anceofear hen ware and .lades. She * ad!no; lived long with 1 er. before Tib adcommitted a fault, for which the o h wo-i man was rtfulved to break every b me infil he> (kin. To that end (he pu1 her into. a fack. tnd having tied the mouth of theih fume, fhe went to the grove to cut a flick;it but while fhe was gone, Tib, with a pen-t! knife opened the fi>ck and got out; aodput the dog and cat in’o it. filling it upwith pans pipkins, &c them dragged itto the door, th it the old woman mightnot come in to mifs them, who on herreturn, t inking that Tib had fowled thi¬ther began o lav on like a fury; whenthe cog howled, the cat mewed, and thepip-pipkins era ked; while the old womanCries oat, Ah! howl if you will an beP'-x’d; ior before you come our of thiai> k I’ll thrash your bones to chaff, Now Tib Mood at a diltance, laughim tofee how buf* she was in deltroying herown furniture, then fled tor it, and neverafter returned.It was well she did replied rhe feventhboy or elfe the old woman would cer¬tainly have been revenged on Tib at lafhBut now for n y ftory, which shall bethe laft at this meeting.TALE VK.A young man hav:ng found a purfe inwhich was five pounds, he made a pro-clac ation tfiat if ary one would lav anyjull chim to It, to come to fuch a tavern,and they would have it again. To thet-vem he went, where, in meat and drink,he fp nt a crown. At laft when the youngman was ready to go, the owner cameand demanded the purfe, which he wvsready to furrender; but the owmr, onknow mg a crown was fpent, he wouldf 23 ^not receive it unbfs he m^de uo thewhole furn, . The vonv* m -.n to d him,|' he could nor; Co aa.cffi.er was fer.t for:! but before he c» : e, ;ae youth took tohis hrels, ar d r <n for it witn that {’wift-ne!s, that, an afs {larding in his wav, hetook hold of h-s : >H to f ing Himfelf bv,ard twite u-d it f ff A litt'e farther heoverthrew a woman wirh-coild andetufedher to mif'.»rrv. \i length he was tokenand brought before a Judice by t: e threeAifFirers. Hi ingheardtheircomplam s,h; turned to the voung m*n, and laid,! Yoong man, feverai complaints rre Here:1a d agamll von, which 1 fhail cle'r up:Fir.t keep the money you have found,and trade with it till \ou have bn provedit fo fir as to make him fatisf;£tion. andi then let him have it. You take the afs,and work him till a new tail grows thengive him to his owner. And you takethe woman home rill fhe is as tar gone• with c ild as {he was before and thenfend her home to her hulbard So w iththele determinations he dilmiffed them.T A L F, V;il.In the reifn ot King Arthur, aear the.L nctiend of Englarui,namely,the countyof Cornwall, .here lived a wealthy tarm-er.er, who had one only fon, commonlyknown by the ntme of Jick Hornby .-—He was br ik, and of a ready wit, fo that ^( 24 )whatever he could not perform by ftrength,hecotnpleatedby ingenious wit and policy.For inftance, when he was no more thanfeven years of age, his father fent h.m intothe field to look after his oxen: The lairdbv chance coming across the field, fkcdJack fevera’ queflions,part cularly. HowThe landlord finding himfelf fo ftrudged away, leaving Jack in alaughter.many commands there wer ? J ik told !him there were nine. The la rd reoliedthere were ten. Nay. quoth Ji 1you are out of that, it is uue thereten, but you broke one of them whecoveted my father’s bull. The latreplied. Thou art an arch wag, J .But, fir, fays Jack, can vou tell mmany flicks goes to build a crow’sWry,faysthelandlord,there are asgoesasarefufiicient for thefizeof thGho, you are out a?ain,Sir, quoththere is none goes they are all carrV I N IS.