THECOMICAL SAYINGS,Jfy/PADDY FROM CORK,WITHHis Coat Button d Behind.Being an elegant Confeience between English Tomand Irish Teague; with Faddy s Catechism, hitopinion of Purgatory, the State of the Dead \and his Supplication when a Mountain Sailor.ALSO,A Creed for all Romish Believers.! IN ALL ITS PARTS, CAREFULLY CORRECTED.1827.Comical Sayings of Paddy from Cork.PART I."lorn. 00 D monow, Sir, this is a very cold day,VJT Teag. Arrah, dear honey, yesternightwas* very cold morning.Tom. Well brother traveller of what nation art thou?Teaf.Arrahdearshoy, I came from my own kingdomTom. Why, I know that, but where is thy kingdom?Teag. Allelieu dear Wmey, don’t you know Cork iin Ireland.Tom. You fool, Cork is not a kingdom but a city.Teag. Then dear shoy, I’m sure it is in a kingdom.Tom, And what is the reason you have come andleft your own dear country ?Teag. Arra dear honey, by shaint Patrick, theyhave got such comical la\vs in our country, that theywill put a man to death in perfect health ; so to befree and plain with you. neighbour, I was obliged tocome away, for 1 did not chuse to stay among suche people that can hang a poor man when they please,if he either steals, robs, or kills a man,Tom. Ay, but I take you to be more of an honestman, that to steal, rub, or kill a man.7'eag. Honest, I am perfectly honest, when I wasbut a child, my mother would have trusted me witha house full of mill-stones.7b,v What was the matter, was you guilty of nothingTeag Arra, dear honey, I did harm to nobody butfarcied an old gentleman’s gun, and afterwards!made it my own.Tom Very well, boy, and did you keep it so ?Teag. Keep it, 1 would have kept it with all myheart while I lived, death itself could not have part¬ed us, but the old rogue, the gentleman, being a jus-tice of peace himself, had me tried ft r the rights ofit, and how 1 came by it, and so took it again.Tom. And how did you clear yourself withoutpunishment?Teag. Arra dear shoy, I told him a parcel of lies,'but they would ret believe me ; for I said that I <rr.tJt from my father when it was a little pistol, and Inad kept it till it had grown a gun, and was design¬ed to use tt well until i.t had grown a big cannon,and then sold it to the military. They all fell alaughing at me as I had been a fool, and bade ruego ]ome to my mother and clean the potatoes,icm.tiowlong is it since you left your own countrv?/Mg’. Aira, dear honey I do not mind whether'itbe a fortnight or four months, but I think myself,it is a long time ; they tell me rry mother is deadwnce^but [ wont believe it until I get a letter fromher own hand, for she is a very g,* d scholar, sup¬pose she can neither write nor read.Tom, Was you ever in England before >* that 1 was, and in Scotland too.» ^ ki,‘d M >">u “hc" ™for'™ Th7,WCre lhat ki^ that they kiclc’t my arsethe wh tnd fht re,aS°n WaS because 1 would not paythe whole of the l.quor that was drunk in the coin-momt h thr landlord aud bis two sons gotall, and I told them it waf a«ben toTc Simo^ oflo^”^ "" ^“1"! bmxk^ ,7:!f r-fSink'aid PaSSi, n W,1S °Ver' the« tbe/ mad" ulbargain never "e, Sll<,olc bands, and made a! dKt CL: C m°rf i but this bargainI by shaint Patricl: l' h', v 1 WaS k,ssmfc bis mouth,»>• i^r^r%n;2:.bkh “0!eJStotland^6^ “taI r<'n»hsBinITeag Why sir, I was no business at all, but what<!o you call the green tree that’s like a whin bush,people makes a thing tp sweep the house of it ?Tom. O yes, Pady, they call it the broom,Teag Ay, ay, you have it, I was a gentleman’sbroom, o»ly waited on his horses, and w'ashefi thedishes for the cook: and when my master rode ahunting, I went behind with the dogs.Tom O yes, Pady, it was the groom you mean.But 1 fancy you was cook’s mate, or kitchen boy.Teag No, no, it was the broom that I was, and ifI had staid there till nor, I might have been ad,vanced as high as my master, for the ladies lovedme so well, that they laughed at me.Tom. They might admire you for a fool.What, sTr, do you imagine that I am not afool ?'no, no, my master asked counsel of me m allhis matters, and I always ga.? him a reason forevery thing: I told him one morning, that he wenttoo soon to the hunting, that the hates were not gotout of their beds, and neither the barking of horr.s^nor the blowing of dogs could make them rise,, itwas such a cold morning that night; so they aU raniaway that we caiched, when we did not see them.Then my master told my words to several gentle-men that was at dinner whh him, a‘>dme for want of judgement, for my head was all of rlump : adding, ihoy were goirg a-fishing along wi 1my master and me in the afternoon ; but l told henthat it was a very unhappy tiling for any man toa hunting in the morning, and a-ftshing m the afternoon; th?ey would try it, but they had better staiuat home, for it came on a most terrible fine nigsomh west rain, and even-down wind ; so the hscot all below the water to keep them dry from tbshpwfcr, and we catched them ^ got norp;Tow. How long did you serve that gent eman P d^Teag. Ana, dear honey. 1 was with bun ** we4*and he beat me seven times.5Tom. For what JU he beat you ? was It for yourmadness and foolish tricks ?Ttag. Dear shoy, it was not; but for bcin;* toainquisitive, and going sharply about bus:ness. First,he sent me to the post office, to inquire if there weieany letters for him ; so when I came there, said l,is there any letters here for my master to-day ?—Then they asked v/ho was my master ; sir, said I,it is very bad manners in you to ask any gentleman’si name; at this they laughed, mocking me, and saidi they could give me none, if l would not tell myl matter’s name: so I relumed to my master, andtold him the impudence of the fellow, who wouldgive me no letters unless I would tell him yourname,master. My master at this flew in a passion,and kicked me down stairs, saying, go you rogue,and tell my name directly, how can the gentlemangive letters when he knows not who is asking forthem. Then I returned and told my master’s name,so they told there was one for him, I looked at it,i being very small, £nd asking the price of it, theyi told me it was sixpence i sixpence, said I, will youd take sixpence for that small thing, and selling big-H ger ones for twopence; faith I am not such a big>'l fool; you think to cheat me now, this is not a con-ti scionable way of dealing, I’ll acquaint my master« with it first: so I came and told my master how’1 <»ty would have sixpence for his letter, and was>« selling bigger ones for twopence ; he took up myii head and broke his cane with it, calling me a thou-!sand fools, saying, the man was more just than totake any thing but the right for it; but I was surethere was none of them right, buying and sellingsuch dear penny-worths. So I came again for myIdear sixpence letter; and as the fellow was shufflingthrough a parcel of them, seeking for it again, tomake the best of a dear market, 1 pict up two, andhome I comes to my master, thinking he would be: pleased with what I had done; now, said I, piaster,■6I think I have pot a trick upon them fellows, Terselling the letter to you. What have you done?I have only taken other two letters: here’s one foryou master, to help your dear penny-woith, and I’llsend the other to my mother to see whether she bedead or alive, for she’s always angry I don't write toher. I h;d not the word well spoken, till he gotup his stick and beat me heartily for it, and sent mebacic to the fellows again with the two. I had veryill will to go, but nobody wonld buy them of me.Tom. Well, Pady, I think you was to blame, andyour master too, for he ought to have taught youisow to go about these affairs, and not beat yon so.Teag. Arra dear honey, I had too much wit »fray own to be teached by him, or any body else ;he began .o instruct me after that, how I shouldserve the table, and such nasty things as those : onenight I took ben a roasted fish in one hand, and apiece of bread in the other ; the old gentleman wasso saucy he would sot take it, and told me I shouldbring nothing to him without a trencher below it.The same night as he was going to bed, he calledfor his slippers and pish-por, so 1 clapt a trencherbelow the pish-pot, and another below the slippers,and ben I gets, oue in every hand; no sooner didI enter the room, than lie threw the pish-pot at mg,which broke both my head and the pish-pot at oneblow; now, said I, the devil is in my master alto*gethei, for what he commands at one time he coun-teimands at another. Next day I went with him tothe market to buy a sack of potatoes, I went untothe potatoe-monger, and ask’d what he took for thefull of a Scot’s cog, he weighed them in, he askedno less than fourpence; fourpence, said I, if I werebut in Dublin, I could get the double of that fornothing, and in Cork and Linsale far cheaper;them is but small things like pease, said I, but thepotatoes in my country is as big as your head, finemeat, all made up in blessed mouthful*; the potatoe7i merchant called me a liar, and my master calledline a fool, so the one fell a-kicking me, and the o-Ither a-cnffiing me, I was in such had fread amongI them, that I called myself both a liar and a fool to! get off alireTom And how did you carry your potatoes home: from the market ?Teag. Arra dear shoy, I carried the horse and| them both, besides a big loaf, and two bottles of' wine; for I put the old horse on my back, andI drove the potatoes before me, and when I tied the■ load to the loaf, I had nothing to do but to carry1 the bottle in my hand : but bad luck to the way asI came home, for a nail out of the heel of my foot: sprung a leak in my brogue, which pricked the very(bone, bruised the skin, and made my brogue itself> to blood, and I having no hammer by me, but a.(hatchet I left at home, I had to beat down the nailii with the bottom of the bottle ; and by the book, dear1. shoy it broke to pieces, and scattered the wine init my mouth.Tom. And how did you recompence your masteri| for the loss of the bottle of wine iTeag Arra, dear shoy, I had a mind to cheat himi:-a»d myself too, for I took the bottle to a black-’ smith, and desired him to mend it that I might goi to the butcher and get it full of bloody water, butii he told me he could not work in any thing but steel’■ and iron. Arra, said I, if I were fn my own king-ildom, I could get a blacksmith who would make anbottle out of a stone, and a stone out of nothing.Tom. And how did yen trick your master out of it?ieag. Why the old rogue began to chide me ask-iimg me what way I broke ir, then I held up the other! 518 h,8h as h<»ad, and let it fall to the ground ona stone, which broke it all in pieces likewise : now.>said 1, master that’s the way, and he beat me very* hear,,1y until I had to shout out mercy and murderall at o»ee.s7W Why did you not leave him when he usedyou so badly ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I could never think to leavehirn while 1 could eat, he gave me so many goodvictuals, and promised to prefer me to be his ownbone-picker. But by shaint Patrick, 1 had to run■away with my life or all was done, else I had lostmy dear shoul and body too by him, and then Icame home much poorer than I went away. Thegreat big bitch dog, which was my master's bestbeloved, put his head into a pitcher, to lick out somemiik, and when it was in he could not get it out ;and I to save the pitcher got the hatchet and cut offthe dog’s head, and then I had to break the pitcherto get out the head; by this I lost both dog andthe pitcher. My master hearing of this swore hewould cut the head off me, for the poor dog wasmade useless, and could not see to follow any bodyfor want of his eyes. And w hen I heard of this, Iran away wuih my own head, for if I had wanted itI had lost my eyes too, then I would not have seenihe road to Port Patrick, through Glen.nap; butby shaint Patrick I came home alive in spite of them.Tom. O rarely done, Pady, you behaved like aman! but what is the reason that you Irish peopleswear always by shaint Patrick ?Teag. Aria dear heney, he was the best shaint inthe world, the father of all good people in the king- \dom, he has a great kindness for an Irishman, whenihe hears them calling on his name*lorn. But, P-dy, is shaint Patrick yet alive?Teag. Arra dear honey, I don’t know whether hebe dead or alive, but it is a long time since theykill’d him ; the people all turn’d heathens, but hewould not change his profession, and was going torun the country with it, and for taking the gospelaway to England, so the barbarous lories of Dub¬lin cuttcd off his head ; and he- swimmed over tpEngland", and carried his head in his teeth.PART ir.i” Tort. T T OW did you get safe out of Scotland!A L Ttag.Vty the law dear honey, when I cameii to Port Patrick, and saw my own kingdom, I knew! I was safe at home, but I was clean dead, and al¬ii most drowned before I could get riding over theu water ; for I with nine or ten passengers more, leptll in a little young boat, having but four men dwell-ji ing in a little house, in the one end of it, which wasii all lhacked with deals: and after they had pulledjl sip her tether-stick, and laid her long halter ovet-l her mane, they pulled up a long sheet, like threej pair of blankets, to the riggen of the house, andil the wind blew in that, which made her gallop upii one hill and down another, till I thought she wouldjihave run to the world's end.Tom Well Pady, and where did you go when youi: came to Ireland again ?Teag. Arra dear honey, and where did I go butif to my own dear cousin, who was now become very-• rich by the death of the old buck bis father ; whoii died but few weeks before I went over, and theii parish had to bury him out of pity, it did not costii him a farthing.Tom. And what entertainment did you get there?Teag. O my dear shoy, I was kindly used as aco-f ther gentleman, and would have staid there long'•[ «iough, but when a man is poor his friends think; of him : I told him 1 was going to see my bro¬ther Harry i Harry, said he, Harry is dead ; deadii s*ud I, and who kill’d him ? Why said he death:!' Allelieu, dear honey, and where did he kill him*,'' *a'^ ^ • ’n k's bed, says he. Arra dear honey, saidil I, if he had been upon Newiy mountains w ith hislj l»og«*s ©n, and his broad sword by his side, all the!] ‘jeaths '*» Ireland had not killed him i O that impu-i “eBt fellcw death, if he had let him alone till he died1 L0r™aiu of butter.milk and potatoes, I am sore hebad lived all the days of his life.10Tom. In all v«ur travels when abioad, did you ne-iver tee none of your countrymen to inform you ofv.’ at happened at home concerning your relations ?TerS. Arra, dear shoy, I saw none but Tom Jack, jone day in the street; but when 1 came to him, it Iwas not him, but one just like him.Tom. On what account did you go a travelling?Teag. Why a decruiting sergeant listed me to be :a captain, and after all advanced me no h'gher than ia soldiei itself, but only he called me his dear coun¬tryman recruit; for Ldid not know what the regi- imer.t was when 1 saw them, l thought they were (nil gentlemen’s sons, and erUegirmers, when I saw ra box IrJce a bible upon their bellies ; until I law G- |iior King George upon it, and R. for God bless him: I:ho ho, said 1, I shan’t be long here.Tom. () then Pady you deserted from them ?Teag. That’s what I did, and run to the mountainslike a buck, and ever since when I see any soldiers1 close my eyes, lest they should look and know me*Tom. And what exploits did you when you wasa soldier ?Teag. Arra dear honey, I killed a man.Tom, And how did you do that?Teag. Arra, dear honey, when he dropt his sword II drew mine, and advanced boldly to him, and then icutted off his foot.Tom. O then what a big fool was you : for you tiought first to have cut off his head.Tag. Arra dear shoy, his head was cutted off be- >ifore 1 engaged him, else I had not done it.Tom O then Pady you acted like a fool: but youare not such a big fool as many take you to be, youmight pass for a philosopher.Teag. A fulusipher* my father was a fulusipher,besides he was a man under great authority by law,condemning the just and clearing the guilty.you know how they call the horse’s mother ?Tom. Why they call her a mate.r iiTeag. A mire, iy, very well ftandedj ar;y fattier;was a mare in Cork.Tom. And what riches was left you by the death 'i of your mother ?Teag, A bad luck to her own barren belly, for shei lived in great plenty, and died in great poverty;! devoured up all or she died, but two hens, and a: pockful of potatoes, a poor estate for an Irish gen-: tleman, in faith.Tom. And what did you make of the hens, and1 potmtoes, did you sow them ?T;ag. Arra, dear shoy, I sowed them in my belly,( and sold the hens to a cadger.Tom. What business did your mother follow after?Teag. Greatly in the merchant way.Tom. And what sort of goods did she deal in?Teag. Dear honey, she went through the countryi and sold small fishes, onions and apples; bought: hens and eggs and then hatched them herself, fh remember of a long-necked cock she had. of an over-it sea brood, that stood on the midden and picked all!: the stars out of the north-west, so they were nevert| so thick there since,Tom. Now Pady, that’s a bull surpasses all; buti is there none of that cock’s offspnng alive now ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I don’t think there are,ij but it is a pity but they hadi for they would fly with: people above the sea, which would put the use ofli ships out of fashion, and nobody be drowned at all7o«. Very well Pady, but in all your travels did| you ever get a wife ?Teag, Ay that’s what 1 did, and a wicked wife too ;and my dear shoy, I can’t tell whether she is gone to'I Purgatory, or the parish of Pig-trantrum ; for she: told me she should certainly die the first opportunityI. she could get, as this present evil world was not*' worth the waiting on, so she would go and see whatgood things is in the world to come ; so when thatell rover called the Fever, came raging over the12wliote kingdom, she went awaj’ and di^d out of spite, Jleaving me nothing but two motherless children.Tom. © but Pady, yon ought to have gone to * ,d ctor, and got some p'dls and physic for her.Ttag. By shaint Patrick, I had as good a pill of myown as any doctor in the kingdom conld give her;Tern. O you fool, that is not what I mean } you Iought to have brought the doctor to feel her pulse, jand let blood of her if he thought it needful.Tesg. Yes that’s what l did, for I ran to the doc¬tor whenever she died, and sought something for adead or dying woman ; the old fuol’rsh devil was athis dinner, and began to ask me seme dirty ques¬tions, which I answered distinctly.Turn. And what did he ask Pady?Teag. Why, he asked me, How did my wife go tostool r to which I answered, the same way that otherpeople go to a chair s no, said he, that’s not whatI mean, how does she purge ? Arra, Mr. Doctor,said I, all the fire in Purgatory wont purge herclean; for she has both a cold and stinking breath.Sir, said he, that is not what I ask you ; whetherdoes she shit thick or thin ? Arra, Mr. Doctor, saidI, it is sometimes so thick and hard, that you maytake it in your hand, and cut it like a piece of cheeseor pudding, and at other times you may drink it,or sup it with a spoon. At this he fiew into a mostterrible rage, and kicked me down stairs, and wouldgive me nothing to her, but called me a dirty va¬gabond for speaking of shit before ladies.Tom. And in*what good order did you bury yourwife when she died *Teag. O my dear shoy, she was buried in all man¬ner of pomp, pride, and splendour; a fine cofFntwith cords in it, and within the coffir. aloag withherself, she got a pair of new brogues, a pennycandle, a good hard-headed old hammer, with anIrish sixpenny piece, to pay her passage at the gate,and what more could she look tor.I rerill)' think you gave her enough alongvith her, but you ought to have erred for her, if itwas no more but to be in the fashion.Teag. And why should I ciy •without sorrow ?when we hired two criers to cry all the way beforeher to keep her in the fashion.Tom And what do they cry before a dead woman?Teag. Why they cry the conimon cry, or funeral(lament that is used in onr Irish country.Tom, And what manner of cry is that Pady ?Teag. iXar Tom, if you don’t know I’ll tell you,'when any dies, there is a number of criers goes be-ifore, saying, Luff, fuff, *bu, allelieu, dear honey,what aileth thee to die! it was not for want ofgood butter-milk and potatoes.PART III.Tom. TT7ELL Pady, and what did yon do whenW your wife died ?Teag. Dear honey, what would I do; do yout! ,nk I was such a big fool as to die too, I »m sureif I had 1 would not have got fair play when I arttnnot so old yet as my father was when he died.Tom. No, Pady, it is not that I mean, was yousorry, or did you weep for her ?Teag. Weep for her, by shaint Patrick I v/milditnbt weep nor yet be sorry, suppose my own me¬alier and all the women in Ireland had died sevenby ears before I was born.Tom. What did yon do with your children when.she died ?Teag Do you imagine I was such a big fool aalibury my children alive along with a dead woman:oArra, dear horey, we always commonly give no-'ithing along with a dead person, but an old shirt, af(winding sheet, a big hammer, with a long candle,and an Irish silver threepenny piece?Tom. Dear Pady, and what do they make of allj rhese things ?14Te*g. Then, Tom, since jou are so inquisiitre,you must go ask the priest.Tom. What did you make of your children then PadyTeag. And what should I make of them, do youimagine that 1 should give them into the hands ofthe butchers, as they had been a parcel of younghogs; by shaint Patrick I had more unnaturalityin me, than to put thorn in an hospital as others do.Tom. No, I suppose you would leave them withyour fsiends ?Teag Ay, ay, a poor man’s friends is sometimesworse than a profest enemy, the best friend I everhad in the world was my own pocket while my mo¬ney lasted ; but I left two babes between the priest’sdoor and the parish church, because I thoaght itwas a place of mercy, and then set out for Englandin quest of another fortune.Tom. And did you not take good night with yourfriends ere you came away ?Teag. Arra dear honey, I had no friends in theworld but an Isph half crown, and I would havebeen very sorry*to parted with such a dear pocket-companion, at such a time,Tom I fancy, Pady, you’ve come off with whatthey call a moon-shine fliting.Teag. You lie like a thief now, for 1 did not see sun,moon, nor stars, all the night then: for I set out fromCork at the dawn of night,and I hadtravelled twentymiles allbut'twelve,before gloaming in the morning.Tom. And where did you go to take shipping ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I car»e to a country villagecalled Dublin, as big acity as any market-town in allEngland, where ! gotmyself aboard of a little youngboat, with a parcel of fellows, and a long leather bag,I supposed them to be tinkers, until I asked whatthey carried in that leather-sack ; they told me itwas the English mail they were going over with ;then said I, is the milns so scant in England, thatthey must send over their corn to Ireland to grind it:ihe comical cunning fellowi persuaded me it was so:fthen I went down to a little house below the water,i.iard by the rigg-back of the boat, and laid me down.|)U their leather-sack, where I slept myself almost toHeath with hunger. And dearTom to tell you plainlyt|vhen 1 awaked I did not know where I was, butT.im. And how did you come to yourself to know(where you was at last ?Teag. By the law, dear shoy, I scratched myishead in an hundred parts, and then set me down toithink upon it, so l minded it was my wife that wasdead, and not me, and that I was alive in the youngnpost-boat, with the fellows that carries over the(^English meal from the Irish milns.Tom. O then Pady, I am sure you was glad whennyou found yourself alive?Arra, dear shoy, I was very sure I wasiialive, but I did not think to live long, so l thoughtit was better for me to steal and be bang’d, than toi live all n.y days, and die directly with hunger at last.Tom. Had you no meat nor money along with you?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I gave all the money to theucaptain of the house, or goodman of the ship, to carryme into the sea, or over to England, and when I wasI like to eat my old brogues for want of victuals I drewmy hanger and cut the lock off the leather-sack think¬ing to get a lick oftheir meal; but, allelieu, dear shoy1 I found neither meal nor seeds, but a parcel of papersi and letters, a poor morsel indeed fer a hungry man.Tom O then Pady you laid down your honesty for'nothing.Teag. Ay, ay, 1 was a great thief but got no-i fhing to steal-Tom. And how did yon con»e to g#t victuals at last?Teag. Allelieu, dear honey, the thoughts of meatand drink, death and life, and every thing else wasi oat of mind, l had not a thought l^ut one.16Tom- And what was I'.at Pady ?Teag. To go down among the fishes and becomesa whale; then I would have lived at ease all mydays having nothing to do but to drink salt wateryand eat caller oysters.Ibm.What,Pady, was you like to be drown’d agaim1Teag. Ay, ay. drowm’d, as cleanly drown’d as a<fish, for the sea blew very loud, and the wind rantso high, that we were all cast away safe on shoredand not one of us drown’d at all.Tom. Where did you go when you came on shore?!Teag* Arra, dear honey, I was not able to go anyjwhere, yon might cast a knot on my belly, I was!so hollow in my middle, so 1 went into a gentle¬man’s honse and told him the bad fortune 1 had on"being drown’d between Ireland and the foot of hisigarden; where we came all safe ashore. But aBjthe comfort I got from him was a word of truth.Tom. And what was that Pady ?Teag. Why he told me, if I had been a good boyr.t home, I needed not to have gone so far to pushrny fortune with an empty pocket; to which I an-rswered, and what magnifies that, as long as I am a;good workman at no trade at all.Tom. 1 suppose, Pady, the gentleman would make*yoa dine with him !Tag. I really thought I was, when I saw the miroasting and skinning so many black chickens which)was nothing but a few dead crows they were going;to eat; ho, ho, said I, them is but dry meat at theibest, of all the fowls that flee, commend me to the>wing of an ox : but all that came to my share wasa piece of a boil’d herrin? and a roasted potatoe, thatwas the first bit of bread I ever ea-} in England.Tom. Well Pady. what business did you loilow af¬ter in England, when you was so poor.Teag. What sir do you imagine I was poor whenI came over on such an honourable occasion as toI«t, and bring myself to no preferment at all. As Iwas an able bodied man in tha ha, I thought to bemads a biigadeer, a grandedeer, or a fczeleer. orven one of them blew gowns that holds the fierytick to the bung-hole cf the big cannons, when theyfet them off, to fright away the French ; i was asure as no man alive ere I came from Cork, the least•'referment I could get, was to be riding master toti regiment of marines,crone of the black horse itself.Tom. Well Pady,you seem to be a very clever lit¬tle man, to be all in one body, what height are you?Tiaj ‘Aria, dear shoy, I am five feel nothing allbut one inch.Tom, And where in England was it you listed ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I was going through thattittle country village, the famous city of Chester, thestreets was very sore by reason of tbs hardness ofmy feet, and lameness of my brogues, so I went but'.very slowly across the streets, from port to pert is ajpietty long way, but I being weary thought nothingit: then the people came all crowding to me as I(had been a world’s wonder, or the wanderiag Jew;for the rain blew in my face, and the wind wettedlall my belly, which caused me to turn the backsidelof my coat before, and my buttons behind, which; was a good safeguard to my body, and the starva-t'tioa of my naked body, and had not a good shirt.Tom. I am sure then, Pady, they would take youfor a fool ?Teag. No, no, sir, they admired me for my wisdomfor 1 always turned my buttonsbefore, when tha wind'iblew on behind,but I wonder’d how the people knewmy name and where I came from : for every one told^another, that was Pady from Cork: 1 suppose thejrtikew my face by seeing t%j name in the Newspapers.Tom Well, Pady, what business did you followin Chester ?Teag To be sure I was not idle, working at no-I thing at all, till a decruiting sergeant came to tows,i with two or three feliows along with him, oaabejiK18injj on a fiddle asd another playing on a drum, to*«Jsing their airs thro’ the streets, as if they were going fto be married. I saw them courting none but young ;{imen: so to bring myself to no prefermentat all, I list- led for a soldier, for I was too high for a grundedeer.'Turn. And what listing money did yon get, Pady? |Teag. Am, dear shoy, I got five thirteens and a !pair of English brogues ; the guinea and the test ofthe gold was sent to London, to the King, my mas- iter. to buy me new shirts, a cockade, and commoni'treasing for mv hat, they made me swear the matl-fctotis oath of devilrie against the King, the colours,.aand my captain, telling me if ever 1 desert, and not ‘run away, that l should be shot, and then whipt tode.-uh through the regiment.Tom. No Pady. It is first whipt and then shotyou mean.Trng Arra, dear shoy, it is all one thing at last,but it is best to be shot and then whipt, the clever¬est way to die'I’ll warrant you.'Pom. How much pay did you get Pady ?Teag. Do you know the little tall fat sergeantthat feed me to be a soldier ?Pom. And how should I know them I never saw,you fool.Teag. Dear shoy, you may know him whether yousee him or not for his face is all bor’d in big holes withthe small-pox, his nose is the colour of a lobster-toe,and his chin like a well washen pofatoe, he’s the big¬gest rogue in our kingdom, you’ll know him when hecheats you and the wide world; and anather markhe dights his mouth before he drinks, and blows hisnose before he takes snuff: the rogue height me six¬pence a day, kill or no kill: and when I laid Sundayand Saturday both together, and all the days in oneday, I can’t make a penny above fivepence of it.Tom- You should have kept an account, andask’d your arrears once a month.Teag. That’s what I did, but he reads a pater-19ioster out of his prayer book, wherein all our namessre written; so much for a stop-hold to my gun, to: ucklers, to a pair of comical harn-hose, with lea¬ther buttons from top to toe; and w’orst of all, he•would have no less than a penny a week, to a doc¬tor ; arra, said I, I never had a sore finger, nor yetii sick toe, all the days of my life, then what have Io do with the doctor or the doctor to do with me.Tom And did he make you pay all these things?Teag. Ay, ay, pay and better pay ; he took melefore his captain, who made me pay all was in his*ook. Arra, master captain, said !, youaieaco-h'cal sort of a fellow now, you might as well makei:ie pay for my coffin before I be dead, as to pay for|) doctor before I be sick ; to which he answered in ai assion, sirra, said he I have seen many a better mani uricd without a coffin ; sir, said I, then I’ll have aoffin, die when I will, if there be as much wood in1.11 the world, or i shall not be buried at all. Then heiail’d for the sergeant, saying, you sir, go and buyihat man’s coffin, and put it in the store till he die,,.nd stop sixpence a week of his pay for it: No, no,,'ir, said l I’ll rather die without a coffin, and seekjitore when I am dead; but if you are forclippiug ano-tiher sixpence off my poor pay, keep it aH to yourself,knd I’ll swear all your oaths of agreement we had: >ack again, and then seek soldiers where you will.! Tom, O then Paddy how did you end the matter?ji Teag. Ana. dear ahoy, by the nights of shaintPatrick and help of my brogues, 1 both ended it,und mended it, for the next night before, that I gavehem leg ba,l for my fidelity, and went about thejtountry a fortune-teller, dumb and deaf as I was not.Tom- How old was you Paddy : when you was aSoldier last ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I was three dozen all butwo, and it is only two years since, so I want onlyour years of three dozen yet, and w hen I live six doz-a more, I’ll be older than I am, I’ll warraad you.20Tom. O but Pidy, by your account, you arthree dozen of years old already.Teag. O what for a big fool are you .now Tortwhen you count the years I lay sick ; which timecount no time at all.A MEW CATECHISM. &e.-Tom. /"\F all the opinions professed in religioVv tell me now, Pady, of what professioiart thou ?Pady. Arra, dear shoy. my religion was to*:■weighty a matter to carry out of mine own countryI was afraid that you English Presbyterians shouhplnsk it away from me.Tom. What, Pady, was your religion such :load that you could not carry it along with you ?Pady. Yes, that it was. but I carried it alwayabout with me when at home, my sweet cross upomy dear breast, bound to my dear button hole-Torn And what manner of wotship did yo:perform by that iPady. Why I adored the cross, tire pope, and t!.priest, cursed Oliver as black as a crow, and swearmyself a cut throat against all Protestants anchurch nf Englandmen.Tom And what is the matter, but you would ba church of Englandman, or a Scotch Prerbyteriayourself Pady ?Pady, because it is unnatural for an Irishmanbut had shaint Patrick been a Presbyterian, I haubeen the same.Tom. And for what reason would you be a Presbyterian then, Pady.Pady. Because they have liberty to eat flesh itient and every tiling that’s fit for the belly.Tom. What, Pady, are you such a lover of flesithat you would change your profession for it.Rady. O yes that’s what I would, I love flesh eall kinds, sheep’s beef, swine’s mutton, hare's flesh21lid hen’s venison; but our relgion is one of thejrmgriest in all tHe world, ah ! but it makes myiieth to weep, and my belly to water, when I seei ae Scotch Presbyterians, and English churchmenttli time of lent, feeding upon bulls bastards, andWjeep’s young children.1’ Tom. Why Pady, do you say the bull is a forni-rtor and get's bastards?Pady. Arra, dear shoy, I never saw the cow andr husband, all the days of my life, nor before I wasI’lorn, going to the church to be married, and whatihen can his sons and daughters be but bastards ?Tom What reward will you get when you arelead, for punishing your belly so w hile you are alive?Pady. By shaint Patrick I’ll live like a king whenI ’m dead, for 1 will neither pay for meat nor drink.Tom- What, Pady, do you think that you ate to*:ome alive again when you are dead ?Pady. O yes we that are true Roman Catholickswill live a long time after we are dead ; when we■lie in love with the Priests, and the good people ofg)ur profession.Tom. And what assurance can your priest givfc;you of that ?Pady. Arra, dear shoy, our priest is a greatishaint, a good shonl, who can repeat a pater-noster,and A.ve Maria, which will fright the very horned• devil himself, and make him run for it, until he be,Hke to fall.and break his neck.Tom. And what does he give you when you areI dying that makes vou come alive again ;Pady Why he writes a letter upon our tongues,i sealed with a water, gives us a sacrament in ouri mouth, with a pardon, and direction in our righti hand, who to,cal) for at the jJoits of Purgatory.Tom. And what money design you to give thepriest for your pardon ?Pady Dear sboy, I wish I had first the money1 he w’ouUl take for it, I would xather^drink it my«22*eiF, and then give him both my Mil and my hone&; iword, payable in the other world.Tom. And how then are you to get a passage Ui!the other .world, or who is to carry you there ?Pady. O my dear shoy, Tom, you know nothing,!:of the matter; for when I die, they will bury my>rbody, flesh, blood, dirt, and bones, only ray skiffij,will be blown up full cf wind and spirit, my dear ",shoul I mean ; and then I will be blown over to the«.other world, on the wings of the wind; and afteriithat I’ll never be kill’d, hang'd nor drown’d, nor tyet die in my bed, for when aoy hits me a blow, my inew body will play buff upon it like a bladder. »Tom. But what way will you go to the new|iw’orld, or where is it?Pady. Arra, dear shoy, the priest knows where:it is but I do not, but the P^pe of Rome keeps the [outer-port, shaint Patrick the inner.port, and g.ves lus a direction of the way to shaint Patrick’s palace, |which stands on the head of the Stahan loch, whereI’ll have no more to do but chap at the gate.’Tom. What is the need for chapping at the gate iis it not always open ?Pady. Dear shoy, you know little about it, f rthere is none can enter but red hot Irishmen, forwhen I cal!, Allelieu, dear honey, shaint Patrickcountenance your own dear countryman if you nvi//,then the gates will be opened directly for me, forhe knows and loves an Irishman’s voice, as he loveshis o.vn heartTom. And what entertainment will you get whenyou are in ?Pady. O my dear, we are a!! kept there until ageneral review, which is commonly, orce in theweek; and then, we are drawn up Ike as manyyoung recruits, and all the black guard scoundrelsis p:ckt out of the ranks, and one half of them issent away to the Elysian fields, to curry ibt weedsfrom among t^e potatoes, the ether half of them ton23:ie River Sticks, to catcb fishes for shaint Patrick’skble, and them that is owing tiie priests any moneyq put in the black-hc]e, and then given to ti e handsf a great black bitch of a devil, which is keeped•3r a hangman, who whips them up and down thennoaky dungeon every morning for six months.' Tom. And where does jour good people go whenney arc separated from the bad.i‘ Pady- And where would you have them to go.:mt unto shaint Patrick’s palace, and then theymay go down the back stairs into the garden ofiliden, now called Paradise.I’ Tom. Well Pady, are you to do as much jusi ce13 a Piotettant as a Papist?1 Pady. O my dear sboy, the most justice we arenommanded to do a Protestant, is to whip and tor-iinent them until they confess themselves in the Ro-i aish Faith ; and then cut their throats that they;nay die believers.[ Tom. What business do you follow after at pre*nent?’. Pady. Arra, dear shoy, I am a mountain saihr,1-nd my supplication is as follows.i pady’s humble petition, or supplication.Christian people behold me a man / •who hasp corn'd through a world op wonders, a hell Jvll ofhardships, dangers by seat and dunge- s by land, and yeti/ am alive ; you may see ny hand crooked like a Jowl'sCoot, and that is no wonder at all ccnsidet ing try ivjjer-\ngs and sorrows e Oh ! oh ! oh ! good people. 1 was aman m try time who had plenty of the gold plenty ofif he silver, plenty of the clothes, plenty if the latter,£he leer, beef, and lislet ylnd now, now I have no¬thing : being taken by the Tutks and rAitveu by tie^Spaniards, lay s'scty-stx days at the stegc c/ G rat ter,wind get nothing to eat but sea wreck and tow tries els ;\,')ut to sea Jot our safety, cast upon the BarLarra. coast,' tmr-ng tie wofit! wicked Algerines, wierewc were takenI•and ikd with tugs and ladders> hcrte-loels, ar.d coc. 'chains : then cut and castcale yard and testicle quite avju'.\if you 'will not believe, put in your hand and feel hew:every female's made smooth by the sheer-bone, where anithing is t$ be seen but •what is natural. Then made our.escape to 'the desert auUd vAlderness of Arabia ; when.<we lived among the wild asses, upon •wind, sand, anilsapless ling. Afterwards put to sea in the hull of an e/thouse, where we were tossed abovs and below the cloudhbeing driven through thickets and groves by fierce, coats,\'calm and contrary winds : at last, was cast upon SaliAlbury plains, where our vessel was dashed to pieces againA\a cabbage stock ■ And now my humble petition to you, g wiiChristian people, is for one hundred of your beef, orl:hundred of your butter, another of your cheese, a cask o\your biscuit, a tun of your beer, a keg of your rum, * *«!a pipe of your wine, a lump of your gold, a piece of you\silver, a few of your halfpence or farthings, a waugf.t <%your butter-milk, a pair of your old breeches, stockings, onshoes, even a chaw of tobacco for charity's sake.A CREED FOR ROMISH BELIEVERS.T BELIEVE the Pope of Rome to be the right heLx and true successor of Peter the Apostle, and that Hihas a power above the kings of the world, being spirttue.and temporals endowed with a communication from bey on,\the grave, and can bring up any departek* i.e. or a shout* hi pleases, even as the woman mdevil in its Endor brought up Samuel to Saul; by thxstead. some power he can, assisted by the emchantments of old Manassek, a kin% mIsrael. / believe also in the Romish Priests, that the^are very civil chaste gentlemen, keep no wives of their owibut partake a little of other men's when in sees cl confession l acknowledge the worshipping of images, an i relicks of sbaints departed to be very just ; but ij they hea.and not help us, 0 they are but a parcel of uigratefuwretches.FINIS.