TftREE^RUMP TWIN BROTHERSorD A M A S C U S'AN EASTERN TALE.TO WHICH IS ADDED,A XI it STANCE OFTURKISH JUSTICE,E D T N B U K(p inHcicted and Sol by J Moiii-iii, Ccwgate*1S09.THETHREE CRUM? TWIN-BROTHERS* f*-DAMASCUS.TTNDER the Caliphat of Watik billah. gran^«^ fon of Haroun Arrefchid, there dwelt aflDamafcus * as old man calUU Behetarillah, whodid but juft get a poor livelihood bv making Steel-Bows, Swords, Sabres, and Knife-Blades Ofthirteen children w hich he had by on*- wife, tendied all in one year; but the threr that remainedwere To odd a figure, that it was irapoflible t*look at them without laughing: They v rre ct ook-ed both behiad and before blind i f the left eye,lame of the . ight foot, and foptrftAly like on*another in face., (hap*, and cj«thes which theyalways wore the lame with one another, th»u eventheir father and mother ibmetimes miltook on*for the other.Of the three folia of Behen rillah, the eldeftwas named load, the tecoud Syaneuk, and tk*Daiaafcai ts a c< Y of Syra, at the foot of Mmi*tLibiaue, .bout forty ;*aguc» from Aleppo It is might*ly refotted to for m Kmvct, Bow* and Sahrwf Thatttti *f Damlsus a u> grmi afoae**.ik_ HISTORY OF THE THREE, Sc<r. 3third B&bekan, and thefe three dttle hump bach’dt'brothers never worked in their fhop but they ferv~ed for laughing-docks to all the boys and girls iathe town.One day, as the only fon of a rich rrcrchantynamed Mourad, returned from walking with fomeof his play-fellows, finding himfelf more merrythan uf nl, he lerned upon the bulk of the threecrumps, and infulted them with fo mnch keen-nef< that Babekao, who was then at work upon aRnde-Blade, loll all patience; he ran after thofechildren, and fingling out his principal enemygave him a cut in he belly; but finding that hewas purfued by the mob he ran into his fhop andpulled to the door after him.As Mourad was dang rouffy Wounded, all theavenues of Bebimrill di s houfc i,rere immediatelyfecured till fhe Cady, wh« as fent for, niouldfbe come. He repaired thither immediately withliis Azzasf, and havine oroken dawn the doors,Opon their refufal to open them, he entered into♦be (hop, and demanded o^ thoit who had ecntfitneffes of the aftion that was committed, whichof the three crumps was the mnr erer? No-odycould affirm that it was one of tnem more chaathe other; they were fo ex»£ll\ alike that theyvere allVt a lofs. he Catty exa • into ; bad, h®affured him that it wa.s not h that had cundedthe boy, end that he could not tell hit cr ii wasSyahouk or Babekan; yah-Alk averred the famething. \nd Bab.k.tn, feeing himfelt out of dan¬ger, had the impudence to d ny likewife that behad any hand in the rime.The Cady was therefore much perplexed whafif The .Azz*s •tre i f >rt of catchpolcs that generallj'ajr«9inpany thi Cadies.T - -4 HISTORY OF THE THREE' to do : thers could be.B\itone criminal, and hersfeemed to he three; and never a one of themwould own hnnfeif to be the man: he thought hecould not do better, than to inform the King ofDamafeus of fo fingglar an affair He qarr ed thethree crumps before his throne; and th t Princehaving examined them himfelf, without being a-blc to find our the truth gave command, in orderto ciit'cov r it, that e^cli of heaa fhculd have ahundred bahinadoes upon the foies of his feet-They begiyi with Syahou , and «fttr-varus pro¬ceeded to I lad; hut botli of them being ignorantV. hetber Babekan was the criminal or no, fo muchrefemblance there was between them, they endux’-ed the bailinado without giving the King anyclearer information than he had’bTorc . Babekanafterwards received his quota offtripcs; but be¬ing :udge in his own cauie, he did not Hhink fitj , to betray himfeKi he m de the molt tai reft pro-ii: teftutions of his innocence, and the King not, knowing which was tl^e murderer, and unwillingto put to death U\o innocents with one etiunnaJ,was contented with baniQxing them all three from!« Damafcus for ever.I bad, Syahouk and Babekan were obliged toComply with thi> ftntenc. immediately-. i heydeparted from the city and having confidered' what they Ihould do lb d and Syabouk wete en-d , tirely for keeping ioget,her ; but BaK-ek nfifavingVeprefentsd to them, that'lt» tivfetb go vvHefe they1 ^ wcult^, lb long as they were together they ii ouidp, always be the jell ot tlw pub i , ano that if theywere finglo they wouiu ta.. h I f infinitely }eis ob-fetved; this reafen prtv did t-vdr the opinion ofthe othei two. They p..vtid ir^n. eaejia :J;erpand taking evety one a qiAei^nt roa‘^ lae-i-kan,fiftter Jxaving travelled through leVerel tewnaCRUMP T WIN -BRO TH F. R3. ^ 5^y1**13* came at Jenth to Bagdad^, where Watik-biilah the grandfon of-iiaroun An efchid, heldtlie fuprerne power.This little ciooked wretch underRanding thatthere was in that city a cutler c.r tolerable ;:oodrepute, went to hurt for employment; he toldhim he was of Damai’cus. and that he had a par¬ticular art in tempering of Heed: the cutler waswilling to try if .Babck&n was as'great a n.aP.erof his trade as he boated himftlf to he, he tookliim irto his fliop, and finding indeed that notonly the fteel he terr.pcred u as as hsref and flnarpegain, as what was commonly ufed at Bagdad,hut alfo that his work was much more nett andperfect, he retained liim in his fervice, and en¬tertained him with great kindncJs, that he mightkeep him to himfelf.firom that time his (Imp \Vas always crowdedTvithcultomers. 1 he littlecrump could not workfall enough ; the cutler fold his Bo\»s and Sabresat his own price; and if he had not been a drunk¬en extrar igant fot, he miglit l.a>c made a very,confider^ble fortune.Babekan had fearce beer twe years at Bagdadwhen his mader fell very ill ol a yreat ocbauchhe had made: his body was so worn and w&ftedby ine, brandy and women, that ail the care ofhis wife and Babe tar could not fave his I fe : hedied in their arms.Thou, h Nonoud, which was the name of thecutler s wife, was very fur from being handfomerBabekan had nevertheltfs been in love with herfor iomc time ; and Ids mnfter’s death being a fairopportunity' to declare his p rib on, he without any* Bjgclad is a city of Afii, foated noon tf.r. '1 ygrie,in the Province of Hierac. It long been the placWof abode of the Caliphs of ./Egypt.v __ HIRTORY OF THE THREE.lientation'm Je the widow acquainted with hisfentimetus. She was not fomuch alarmed at them;for be (ides that his out-of-the-way figure bejan t*f',1 °’'v iamiliar to her, ihe further confidered thatJf Bfiiiekan leit her, thcfliop would prefently lofeHs reputation^ pjul tiiat the little money ihe hadfated curing hec hu&and’s life, would loon befpent. liieie reafous induced iier, like a venfiblewoman as flic was, to make Babekan a promife ofmarriage, fo foon as (he could do it with decency.She kept her word with him feme months after-arcs; and Babekan, not fatisded with his cut-?uig trade alone, ^'hereby in a little time he gotdeal or money, fell likewife into the wayof telling brandy of dates, which he had a veryconfiderablc dent nd for.The correfpon ience that Babekan hadm fove-ral towns of the call, came to the ears of his twobrothers, who, after having lived for aimolt fi eyears in the utmoil poverty, were at laft met to¬gether at OerbentJ : here they learnt to theirgreat joy the prolp rdy of Babekan, and notdoubting but he would cfiift them hi their want,-they refolved to go together to Bagdad; they wereno fooner arrived the re than they fentfo him by•a poor woman who ha i taken them into her houla■out ot charity.Bahekan was prodigioufly.furpriied at the fightof his brothers Have you f rgot, fai£ lie to themin a viola t paffion, w- at happened to ur> at Da-snafeus i have you b mind to make me the jeft ofthis ciry too; I fwear by my head that you ihalld:e beneath the cudgel, i<" yen dare to come nearmy houfe, or flay in Bagdad another hour.^ Dcrbent is a town of the province of Servania Vev5a, at the foot of mount CAucifiu.CRUMP TWIN BROTHERS. 7Ibad and his brother were amazed at a recep¬tion fo little exnt&td; it vas in vain’they reprfe-fented their mii'ery to Babekan, and (hewed hin»the mod abj-:d i’ubiTufiion ; he continued unmov¬ed; and all they could obtain of him was ten ortwelve pieces of gold, to help them to itU ie inSome other town.Babekan being returned home his wife perceiv¬ed an alteration in hi - countenance : fhe afkedhitnthe caufc of it, and was anf- ered <h -.t it proeed-ei from the arrival of his iw'o brothers; but thatapprehending at Bagdad the fame railleries he hadbom at Damafcus, he had forbid them his houfe,and obliged them to leave the town.Nohoud to no purpofc remonftrated to him thecruelty of what he hati done ; her hufband’s furywas increafer by her perfuafion's. 1 find, fays. hey you will be temptetl to entertain them hereduring the journey 1 am to make to Baifora; buttake notice, I would advife you, that if _\ou do,it (hall cofl: you your life. I fay no mere: lookto it th it ou do not difobey me-Babekan’s wife was too well acquainted with,feer hufband’s violent humour to contradict him ;file had often enough felt the weight ot hia arm.She promifed mofc' } unCluaTly to execute his or¬ders ; but tliofe promifes did not make Bubcka»ealy; he paffed the wrhole nig t without taking *wink of deep, and returning next morning atbreak of day to the vroman s houfe where his bro**h«rs had lodged, he heard to his great fatisfaCti-a*h t they were gone from Bagdad, with an Intel!-'tion never to fee it again.Ibad and Syakouk *>ere indeed d- parted with uwfolation to go feek their fortunes elcfwlwre j butthe latter falling Tick about'two days jou; ney fromihgclad, an«4 they finding tlieffidVLves obliged* , HISTORY OK THE THREERay there almofi three weeks, their money w#*Toon gone, and they reduced to theirfonner want:j ot knowing how to live, in fpite of the fevereprohibition they had received from B^bekan, theyrefolvtd to go back to Bagdad: they went to theirformer landlady, and begged her to go once moreto their brother, in order to perluade him, if the«ould, to take them into his houfe, or at lealt togive them a Itttle money to defray the charge oftheir journey.Ti>e poor woman could not refufe to do themthat fei vice ; die went to Babeksn's houfe, andbeing informed at his fhop that he had been gonetwelve da\ s to Balfora, to fetch feveral bales ofmer handifes, flie returned immediately to tellthi news to her guells, who were fo hard p: effedby their necefiity, that they went themfelvcs toimplore the affihanee of their brothre’s wifeNohoud could not help knowing them; they ^i efembled Babekan fo exactly, that there Was nobody but who would have miftakeiweach of themapart for him ; but though he had f Bri&ly torn,manned her not to let them into her houfe, flie•was touched with their poverty and tears ; (lieentertained them, ; nd fetTome viftuais beforetheru. It was now dark night; and Ibad and* Syahouk had fcarce fatisfied their fidt hunger,when fomebody rattled at the door ; the voi eofBabekan, who was not to have retur ed in threerdays longer, was a thunderbolt fo his wife endhrothei'fc; they turned as pale as death, vnd No-lioud, w'ho did not kn#w where to put them toconceal them from her hufbands fury, thought atlaft of hiding hem in a little cellar behind five: ory, fix tubs of Brandy.Bab:kan grew impatient at the door; he knockV| .*J loader and louder every moment; at laft if wasCRUMP TWItf-BROTHERS. $'opined, and fufpe£Tmg h's wife ot having fom«?gallant hid in a corner, he took a Rick an ! beather foundly; afterwards, his jealoufy inducinghim to fearch all the houfe, he nfited every hole■with the greateft care, but never thought of look¬ing behind the brandy tub*, tnough he went intothe cellar. lad, the hump-backed churl hav¬ing made nq dhcoverv, £rew a little calm; heloc ed all the doors; taking the keys according tohis cutlom; went to bed. with Nohoud^ and didnot go out all nest day till toward th eyening-p^ayer, tellin^ his wife he flioutd fup with a friend.His back was hardly turned, when \iohoud ranimmediately to'the Cfllar; but (he was in the ut-moflfurprile at finding Ibad andSyahouk withoutthe lead figns of life : h r perplesity increafed,when (lie confide ed (he had no way of gettingrid of the two bodies; but taking : er refolutioaat once (he (hut up the (hop, ran to look towardsthe bridge of Bagdad for a fooljlh porter of Sivri*hilfar and having told him that a little hump¬backed man wh came to her houfa to buy foiheknives, havin * died there luddeniy, (he feared mefliould be brought into trouble about it; die prof¬fered him four fequins of gol , if he would puthim into tbe fack, and throw him into the ygris*The porter accepted her off. r; and Nohoud bav-lug taken him home with her. gave him two fe¬quins by way of earned ti eated him with drinktill it was night put only one of the crumps intohis lack, helped n* up ith it, and pvpmfftd togive him ihc other two feqrins when (lie was farehe hud performed his conimiffios.The porter, with the crump upon his fit •-lier.;^   -   —————— — * — -—-I ^* S vri iitffir is a town of Katolis, the inbabisaiti*«f which aie (ainoHS for their finipiicjty.% <?4 HTSTORT OF THE THREE'being come to the bridge of Haddad, opened M*lack, fh >t hii ioad i»to the tiver^ and runningback to Nohoui Titdone, faid he laughing, yourman is fiih meat by this time give me the tw*feqairu you promiled me. No houd then entbehind her counter, under pretence of fetchinghim the money; but Aarting back with a loud cry,Ihc pretended fail into a fwoon. Ihc porterllrangcly furprifed, took her inta his arms : afterh vi g fenthed her to herfelf, he enquired thocaufe of her fright: \h, faid the cunning huffy,aifHn. her p^rt t a miracle, go in there, and you^ will Icon know1 the caufe. The porter went in,Was ftruck as mure as a fifh when by the glim¬mering of a lamp be perceived the fame body■whi h he thought he had thrown into the ygris.I The more marro t ly he viewed it, the greater washis furpril'e. I am Cure, faid he to Nohoud, l didi| throw that plaguy crooked rafeal over the bridge ;how then couid he co e hither ? there mu ft bewitchcraft in it: however, continued he, let’s tryif he will get out again’; ’then having put the fe-{ cond crump intft the famefack, he carried him tothe bridge, and choofmg out the deepeft part ofthe Tygris opened his f^ck, and threw in poort Syahouk. dig was again returning merrily to No.I houd, not dmibting that Ids burden was gone to) the bo tom, when turning the corner of a lireet*he faw coming towards him a man with a lanthornf in his hand. He was ready to drop down dead. with fear at the fight of Babekan, who was goinghome a little overtaken with wine. He doggedhim, however a little while, and finding that hetook the ready way to the houfe from which he| had fetched the two crumps he feized him furL| oufly by the collar: Ah. rogue ! cried he. you4! thick to make a foot of me all night, do you i ) oiiCRUMP ~”W''\T.BiriOTII!LtU. _liave ferre.i ae his trick *.wic-ah'er'.dy : but ifvoaretcaps th«- third time, I vkill be handed : then,being luity ttllow, he threw his f-ick over hisfhou’ders, and forcing h rn into it in fpite of histeeth, tied the mouth of it with a liron r rope,and runnin diredly to the bri Ige, Sung in poorBabckan, fack and aili he walked 3 pretty whilethsreabfmts, for fear the. crump lliould get out agcin to cheat him of his reward, but hearing nonoife returned to t he cutlarefs to demand th.; othertwo fequins, which die had promif d him. Donot fear his coming any more, raid he, the mo»ment he fat his foot into the home : the wag ha Aa mind to make me his fn'ort for i ver, l lunk ;he only pretended to be dead, that he might male*me trot my legs off; but I have done bis bufinelsfor him now io thoroughly that he will ntvercome to your houfe any more, I will engage f°ffhim.bfohoud,.furpnfed at this difeourfe, defired himto tell her what he meant by it. Why, repliedhe, I had again thrown this damned crump intothe ygris, when as I was returning to you formymoney, 1 met hirhagain about five oriix ftreetsoff wi,h a lanthorn in his hand, finging and roar-*ing under pretence of being drunk. 1 was fo bor*ridlv enraged with him, that laying, old of him I ,forced him into my lack m fpite of rcfif-*tance, tied it with a cord, and lo throw bin* intothe Tygri<o from whence l believe he’ con neverreturn unlefs he be the Daggial * himftlf.BaWkan’s wife was in an unparalleled furprifgat this news. Ah? iirrah, faid ihe, tyhyt ljjvayou done? you have now drowned my hafhandjand have you the impudence to think .1 ifciU xq»— — -* Tbs Dagg’jl is tbe Anuelirlft of die Mfiko netan*.Ta H'STOKY OB' THF THREE■ward you for this murder? no. no; 1 will r< veng«Ihis de-ith. ai d o this moment to make my com-I'laint to the Ca:iy.1 he porter g .ve very little heed to alt herthreats; he, thou ht Hie did this only to avoidjp iying him the money Hie had promifed him."Without jelling, faid he, give me the two ft quins3 have fo lawfully earned ; you have made a foolof me long enough already : 1 mvid be gone borne.Nohoud refufmg to pay him; 1 fwrear b myhead, replied he in a violent rage, if you do notgive me the two fequins this moment. 1 will fendyou to keep company with that crooked monller1 have thro n into the river. Now, added he,difpute my payment if you dare : I am not fuchafool as you take me for; I will have my moneypreferitly, o.r i will make the houle too hot to holdyou- i he more the porter infilled upon his mo¬ney, the more noifeNohoudmade ; he grew wearyof to much refiiUnce, and taking her by the hair,he gulled her intS the llreet; and was really go¬ing to throw her into the lygris, when the neigh¬bours Iton to her affiitance.the porter upon this took to his heels, verymuch m dudgeon at having, as he thought, beenfo gro'ly put upon, and was going towards th’ebridge in his way home, when he met three men,each with a load upon his Ihoulder, as far as hecould defeera in the dark. He that ’.vent firtl tookhim by the arm : Where are yon going at thistime of night, faid he? What’s that to you, faidthe porter very Ihoppifkly ; I am going wh«-re Ipie ale ? You are greatly deceived, anfvvtred thefh anger, for you tliall go where 1 pleale? take thisbundle elf my head, and walk beiove me.The porter furprifed at the command, wmiddhave I'tfiiled ; but that man having fliook at hba-■'■'•V. '.V>d Vif:,/ •’ k..2^5CRUMP TW; \t HROTf 1FR ?. 15a fahr- frur Fg.rF hroa !, nd thrt*at.ened to cac©ff* his head ir he did not obey that moment, hewas forced to tik. up the to'd and go in companywith the other two, whereof on feem>_d a have,and-the other a fiiherman rh-.y hadViot walkedtpn ftreets when they came to a little door, whichwas prefently opened by an old woman : they pair¬ed through a long p ffsge very dark, nd arrivedat lad into a magnificent hall : but wh t was theporter’s amafement, when by the light of abt vefot ty tapers with which it was illuminated, he fivvthe crooked brothers he had thrown into the Ty«gris. two of whom were upon the flioulders of theflave and the fiiherman, and the third upon hisown head;, he was feized with Iw. h terror, thathe began to drake ail over his body He wns morethoroughly convinee:: than ever, that fo extraor¬dinary a thing could be imputed to riothing butconjuration: but recovcringa littlefrotn his fright.The Devil take this curfed crump backed, one-eyed fon of a whore, cried he in a very comicaltone, I believe I thall ’Ho nothing all ni .ht butthrow him into the river, and not get rid ofhiniat Ltd, the rafeal was fo malicious to come backagain twice to hinder me.frora having the tequinsthe cutler woman promifed me ; and here I findhim again, with two others befide*, not afar thingbetter than himfelf. Bur, fir, continued he ad-dreffing himfelf to him that feemed the mailer ofthe houfe, lend me, I beleech you that faore ofyours but for a moment; 1 will only cut off theirLteftJs, and-then go throw them all'three into the !-fygrts, to fee if they ill follo w me again. I am. ilo horrid unlucky to day, that 1 am lure the Devil jwii carr them back either to the cutler’s houfeor mine, do what I will. / ^ . jThe porter having firidted this fpcech of bis, .|OF TfTff TTTREEthe Caliph W atik bilfah, io- it was he himfelf, 1that b the adventureof Hiaroun rrefchid hisgrandfather, walked out very ofttn in the night¬time in the flreets of Bagdad to fee what p fled,end to he capable of making a jucig'mrht hi nfelfhow the people liked h-w government; thw Caliph,I fay, who was dilguifed like a merchant, was inthe utmclf furpnle at thefe word* of the portei^sthe had been outthat night with his prime Viziar, iand having met a fifherman he afked him whitherhe went; I am going, p.nfwered he, to draw un .IBy nets, which 1 have left ever finee yeflerdayfcorning in the J'ygr s. \nd what will you dowith the fifli you catch ! replied the Caliph To¬morrow, faid he, 1 will go fell it in the marketof Bagdad, to help to maintain my wife and threeahildren. Will'you bargain with me for vourwhole draught? replied Wank«billah. With allmy heart, anfwer«d the Slherman. Well, faidthe Caliph, there are ten fequins of gold for it;jwil that fatisfy you? the filherman was fo am iz-ed at fuch a piece of generbfity, that he almoltimagined e w as in a drtara: but putting the fe-qiiins in his pocket, mv lord replied he trat.fport-ed if 1 were to ha,ye a? muchfor every draughtI flioulxl foon be richer and more powerful thanthe fover elgn commander of the faithful.The Caliph fmiled at tliis comparilbn : he ^entto tlie flio e of the I'ygris, entered into the fiflier-xnah s boat and, with his Viziar, having helped•him to draw up fik netfs, he was very much amaz-.ed at finding in them the two little crump*Damalcus, and a fack in which was the third.A adventure fo lurprifing, ftruck him withadmiration. .Since this draught belongs to me,faid he to the fifhetman, who was as much fur-pril'tal as S.ijnfeif, I am refolved to carry it homevwrWNWmWW 7?'With mr ; but you mu't lend us a b^nd. T hacwan ad received too gr?at mttrks.of the Caliph’slibei ality to make the lead fcruple of obeying him;the Viziar and he took the one Ibad, and the o-ther Syahouk by the feet, and threw them on thsi?flioulders; an t the C-dipb himfelf having ihoub*dered the Pack in which was Ba.ekan. they turn¬ed hack to go to the palace, when they met thoporter, who had a few Moments before, thrownthe three brothers into t'n« t ygris.Watik billah was dropping vvt t with thewater that ran-out of the fack, he ih pfied thoporter and haying forced lum to eaie him of hisburden, he conduced him to a houfe * hich ad-jo ned to his palace. There it was, that the por¬ter of B gdad, having by the words he ip«' e re¬lating to the three crumps, excited the C dipli 3eurioii/y, he defired him to explain himfe f moreslearly upon fo wiiimficle an adv riture.Sir, replied the porter, this explanation yottrequired isnot foeaidy rn.alc as you imagine The'more l think of it, the lefs ’ und. iQtand iti how¬ever, you fliall have it jult as l think, it happenedto me.Do you know, fir, fail the porter, the cutler’*wife that lives at the end o* the drett of the jew¬ellers? No, replied the Caliph. Youarenogreat!• Ter by the bargain nnfweved the porter; Ihcisthe mifchieVoufA jade in all Bagdad: I would•willingly give the two iequins am mailer of tohave five or fix (1 ps at her Foul chops, for-thetrick the witch put upon me this ni ot; thpugh tam but p mr, • ihould fleepthe b iter for it. Thiscutler woman then—1—But 11 iy, fince you do notknow her, 1 will draw you her pjflure. Imagine,fir, ,thatyou have befoVeyour eyes a great v, ither-'td ©Id woman, widt a ikiu as bla.k as a driedHISTORY OT THE THREEneat's tongue; with a little fore head, mi eyes Tofar iunk iuto her head, that ’tis imp 'flibie to feeflic has any without a telefcope Her nofe has fogr : t hindr.efsfor her chin, that they are alwayskilling one another; and her mouth which exhalesa c arming odour like that of brimitone, is fowide that it is not unlike a crocodile's. Mufi:not all this form a complete beautv ? Withoutdeiih’, faid the Caliph, who, h ugh impatient tohe ir the dory of the three crumps, almoft diedwith laugh ng at the porter s comiai detcription;you are fo excellent a painter that fancy feethis cutler woman, and would lay a wager Icouldfind h#>r out amongft a thonfand. Well then, faysthe porter, fince you know her now as well as ifyou had leenher, imagine hat you fee this love¬ly creaturecovered witha great veil that hides allhe perfe&ions come to choofe me tow ards nightat the foot of the bridge from amongft five or fix■of rm comrades and promife me in my ear fourfequins ifl vould follow hei\ The deli re of gainentices me ; I fly towards her houfe, go in with■her: Ihe throwsoflfher veil ; 1 am frighte ) at thelight almoft out of my wits; Ihe cert inly per¬ceives it; and to encourage me, pops into my banda great flaggon of wine I own, fir, it was foexcellent,‘that whhout inquiring what country itcame from emptied the flagon. Yet ? couldnot Help trembling all the wmle 1 drank it; I wastfraid Hie liad a mind to '-ake me drunk, that {hemight afterwards debauch me, and get me to fpend •tite night with' her- nd it was not w thoutgrounds; that 1 feared this; for (lie carefled meenough to mr!keme btlieVe it. •'ifter the wine;flic b.ought me a'gret "bottle of date brardy flicamouroufly pours out a large glafs full, whichI tipped oflf without any more a-do; then {he pr r*CRUMP TWIN-BROTHERS.pofed to me But, {lay, flay, 1 thi*k I dranktwo glafles of brandy upon further cotiiideration. ,ADrink fix i you will nfwe^ed the Caliph, fi* vou |do but make an end of your (lory. Hold you me _ 'ithere, fir, cried the porter, one cannot Iwallswdown brandy at that rate neither^ -twill fly into dthe head : I am h df drunk with thofe two only,and j'ou would have me here, after all that wine, #tope down a bottle of brandy to boot: no no, fir, .I will do no fuch thin , though tUe lover-igacommander of the faithful himfeif fliould big meupon hia knees to do it. But let us return to ourflteep. So then it was that the cutler woman,feeing me gro.? n little merry, as one may lay,| pave me to under Hand, that a little $r»okea man,who came to he hoafe to buy fome cutler s ■ are,had died fudaenly in het Giop, and that fearing(he fhoukl he aecufed of having killed him, fliewould g ve the four feauins file had promifed me,j ■ if I ould throw him into the f ygns. I hv»i not itdrank fo mach neither, but that I was relolved toIntake fure of my cafli. 1 demanded two of thefequms in earned ; flie gave them^me: 1 puts lit¬tle crump into my fack, does as ' was bid, andoonie back to take rhe red of my money’, when{he fliows me again the very fame man, 1 leaveyou to imagine, fir how much I was itirpriicd., •• 1 put him once more mto my fack, carried him a-gain to the bridge,' and choofing the moft rapidpart of the bream, tofTed him in; and 1 was re¬turning to the cutler’s, when 1 again met thecrooked toad with a lanthorn in his hand,, andmaking ns if he was drunk. 1 grew’ weary offomuchjefling, took hold of him roughly, and pufti-iug him into my fack in fpiie of his teeth, tied upthe mouth of it, and flung him a third time intothe Tygris with my fack and all, imagining lb*& H STORY OF "HE THREEwould k*ep JiiiH from getting out again. * wentback to the cud r woman, and .old her how l met•the crump alive, and in \ h it manner I got rid ofhim: but in-bad of paying me tiie two fequins texpefted, {he pretendeu to tear her hair in grief,tied threatened to carry me i efore the Cady forhaving drowned her huihand. t never mindedher tears ; but fwore i vrourd have ray money, Imade a bloody noife about it; die neighbours ranin at her cries ; 1 took to ray heels, i was goinghome, grumbling in the giaard very much, whenyo fir, forced me to take up this rack upon mybead, and bring it hither.Now, fir, continued the p»rter, you may eafilyjuefs the caflfe of my fright when at my arrivalhere, I found myfeif laden with the fame maathat I had t: ree times flung into the Tygris, andbeheld alfo two others fo like him, that it is im-pofiible to dihinguifii between them but by theirclothes.Though the Caliph could not fee into the hot*tom of this adventure, he took abundance of plea-iure in heaving the porter’s [lory. Then havingvie .ed the three brothers a little more narrowly*be thought he perceived in them fomefigns otlhe,end fent immediately for a ph\ heian : he camefoon afterwards, and finding that Ibad and Sya-liouk threw up witir the water the\ Had fw all owede great deal ot brandy, he did not doubt, as in¬deed it was tru", but that their dtunkerme s wasthe occafion of their being tl mght dead. As forBabeLsn, nothing but <vant of air had almoft iul-foc ted him; but os foon as his head was oct orthe fock he recovered oy degrees; fo that in half,an hours time nis bn-thersand lie were entirelycut of danger.Never vvisany b®dy fo amazed as BaheWan wa»*CRUMP TWIN-BROTHERS. *9at thr fight cf his brothers, who were laid uponfopha’s. He abnofi cracked his eyc-ftrings with; Raring ct them, and could not pDliVbly conceivehow he came into that (trange place with them*He iufTered himfelf to be undrtficd wiinout utter-ing*c fingie word, while the fame was done to I*bad a: d Syahouh.The Caliph having eauf-.u Tie three crumps tobe curried into different chambers, had them pulto bed and locked up. Then he lent away thefiOierinan. and having Ordered the Viziar to keepthe porter, and to ufe him with great kindnefs heprepared to divert himftlf at the expence of tnei crooked brothers and the cutler woman, whom hei UTefted nc>t aborning by the break of dayTo heighten his diverfion, the Caliph caufedto be made that night two fuits of clothes ex*aflly like that which Babekan wore when he wa*i thrown into the Tyg'is. He ordered them to b«put upon bad and byaliouk, whofe drunkew fitwas quite over, and being all dreifed exadly alike,he placed them bebind three different pieces of1 hanging in a magnificent hall of the palace arid| gave orders that they fliou d be difeovered upon; his making a certain fign.t he Viziar, who, with the porter and feveralguards, had been early in the morning to arreltthe cutler b wife, brought her into the hall, where|i the Caliph was a'ready placed upon his throne,t lie examired her r-ith relation to what puffed ba-i tween her and the p< rter. She told im oil tiiathad happened w ithout concealing a tittle ol the! trutlr, and feemed very much concerned at thelofs of her hufband. But faid the Caliph, is notthis a made ftory that you tell me'? how is it ptdVi lible thefe three crooked l^rothers fnould be fo e.x-! ailly alike that the porter flieaid be tiHCeivod fey■20tho.HISTORY OF THE THREE* Ah, niylord, replied Kol.oud, he was halfdrunk when I en’ploytd him; ard bcfides, myhulband and h s brothers referable cue another foperfe£Uy, that if they wera d re fled in the fameelothes, 1 bnrdly think 1 myfdf coiiid be able todiilinguiflt one from the ether. That v\oi *pleafant, indeed, laid the Caliph clapping hishands, I fliould be glad to be ipt&ator oi fuehon interview.This wna the fignal Watik-billah was to givefor th crumps to upper ■ I ht pieces of hang¬ing were immediately pulied up, and the cutlereiswas ready to die with feu' at the fight. O heav¬en * 'cried ibe, what a prodigy is this! do thsdead c(vne a ain to life t is tnis »n iiiufEor, mylord, and are my eyes faithfull teftimonies of w hat1 fee? Vou fee right replied Watik-billnh; or.eof thefe three is your hu (band, and the other twosire his brothers; you muii choole out your owvi,from among them. View them well; but 1 for¬bid them, upon pain of death, to fpeak or make,the lead fi, n.Nol oud, in the utmoft perplexity, examinedthem one after another; flic could not diiiinginlkher hufb nd, an the Cal'ph, who Was ns muchat k lofs to know them ns (he, ordered him ofthe three that was Babekan to come and embracehis \Vife, was very much furprifed to fee threecrumps all at once thro • their arms round herneck, and each of them aflirm himfelf to be herhufband.Ibad and Syahouk were ret ignorant that theywere in the preftnceof the fovereign comniardtrof the faithful; but whatever reipeft owedhim they thought they could not be revenged ofBabei n better, than by trying to pafs loi him j1and this latter got nothin, l y his urge and pfliot*CRUTvIP TWIN-BROTHKUS. arfor his two brothers o^ linatel , perilled in rob¬bing him of lus name.'he Caliph could not help 1-ughing at th’scomical co tell of the three crumps; but havingat length rc. flu me cl his gravity; l here would benofuch dilpute m r.gyou, f .id he, which fUouldb« Bnbtkan, if vou knew that I want to di^ingoid*him only to give him a thoufand bntrinadoes forhi* cruelly to his brothers and for his forbiddinghis wife to enttrtfiii# them in his aVfence.Watik-billah pronounced thal'e words in fof;»were a tone, that bad and S\ shook thought it hightime to give over the jeft t If it be fo, my lord,faid each of them feparately, we are no longerwhat we pretended to be, with » defign to punifliour brother f«r his ill ufage of us: if there areany blows to be received, let him receive them,for they are no more than he d<. ferves : as for us#mv lord, we imp ore vour generofitv, and we arein hopes that your auguft mnje fty, who never fuf-fers any to depart unfati died, will have the good-nefs ro alleviate our miftry and wantThe Caliph then threw his eyes upon Babtkan,whom he faw in the greateft confufion. Well,laid ht to him, what had thou to fay for tnyfeffjPotent King, replied Rabekan rt’ith his face prof-trated to the earth” whatever puninimem I am olook tor from your ja£ice, I am neverthclefs thehufbnnd ofthis womau; my crime is fiill the great¬er in that being the only cauie of the bamflimentof my brothets from ti e city of Damalcus, for amurder, of which on^reicmblance hindered mefrom bein.; known the author, ought to.hare letthem participate in my good £ rtune, as they (har¬ed in fny bad : but if a fir cere rep ntance can ob¬tain my pardon offer from the bottom of tny•heart to give them ecjual part* «f nil the mevey €24 ANINSTANCEOrh;ive by my labour gained fince my arrival her? atBagdad; and I hope yot r majf.fty will pardon myirgratbalde, upon a.cor.nt of the forrow it givesme to have committed it-The Caliph, who nev, r intended to infiift anypunifhment upon Babekan, was very well pleafedto fee bin* in thii difpolition ; he therefore par¬doned ! dm: and bein willing that Ibad and Sya-houk for the pl.afure the> hid given him, fliouldfee! ‘he efTefts of his libera ity, he caufed it to b«pubhflied all over Bagdad that if there were anyw®men who wovldmarry the two erump-brethers,he would give them each two thoufand pieces ofgold. Fhere wrere above twenty that were readyto embrace fo confiderable a fortune; but Ibad andSyahouk'having chofen out of that number thofethat they thought would fit them beft, received ofth Caliph twenty thowfand fequins more, withwhich they traded in feilowfliip with Babekan;find thefe three brothers fpent the reft of theirdays i abundance and tranquility, under the pro-teilion of the foveroigh commander of the faith¬ful, w ho was fo liberal to the porter, that fee livedat his cafe eve r after, without having any ocaafioa?fcr continuing his trade. —r-SMBTI—'  A rtINSTANCEo rTURKISH JUSTICE.A Grocer of the city of Smyrna, had a fotigwho, wit! the help of the'itt e learning tfer©ountry e nUl afford, rofe to the poll of naib, ordeputy' to tile Ody, er mayor *f the city, aoi a*.T tT n KJSH JUSTICE. 2^ !fucVi vifitcdtheiinarkets arc! itifpcfted tht weights'»h(l jr.. afures ot all retail dealers. One day, sthis i fficf r was gcinf.his roun s, the neighbours,! who knev enough'of his fall er’s charr.fier to fuf-pedt that he n ight hand in reed of the caution,advifed him to remov e his weights for fear of ther worft: but the od cheat depending on his re!a-! tion to the infj e£or. and fure, as he thought,that his for would not expole him to a public af-1 front laughed at their advice, and (food verycalmly at his fliop-door, waited for his coming.! The naib however w«s well aflhred of the diflio-nefhy and unfair dealing of his iath«-r, and refolv-ed to deleft his villany and make an example ofi hi:!: accordingly, he flopt at the door, and faidcoolly to him, u Good man, fetch out your1 weight*, that we may examine them Infteadof obeying, the grocer would ave tain put it offwith a laagh, but was foou convinced his fbn wasferious, by hearing him order the officers to fearchhis fhop, and feeing them produce the tnftrument*I I of his f aud, which, after an impartial examina*lion, were openly condemned and broken to pie¬ce*. ttis fliame and confnfion however, Jie hop¬ed would plead with a fon to excufe him all fur-their punilhment of his crime; but even thi*,though entirely abitrary, the naib made as lever*as for the moft indifferent offender, fot he fen-tenced him to a fine of fifty piahres, an to re¬ceive & baftinado of a* many b ows on the fries ofhis feet. All this was executed upon the fpottafter whkVi the naib leaping from his horfe, threwhimfelf at his feet, and watering them wi h histears, addreffed him thus: “ fiather hare ditcharged my duty to my God, my forereign, mycountry, and my (tation; permit me no by myTefjpcft aad ffibrnifSoc, to acaptit tkt defit i «w* m24 AN INST > NCE OF, &cparent. Jufnce is blind, it is the p twer of Gorf.on earth, it has na re ard to father or fon, Godand and our neighbour s right are above the ticcof nature, you had off -d' d againtt the 1 tr. ofjuftice. yoa dtfe ved this pumfhment, you w ouldin the end received it from feme other, I amforr it was your fate to hav. received it fromme my eonfetence would net fuff r me to aft o-therw ife ; behave - etter for the future and in*ftead of blaming, pity my being reduced to fojcruel a nectffey.’' This done, he mounted hithorfe again, and then continued his jonrney, a*tnidirthe acclamations and praifes of the w'hole.city, fdr fo extraordinary a piece of juftice ; re-poi t of wich.being made to the Sublime Porte,the Sultan railed him to the poll of Cady; from•whence b) degrees, he rofe to ihe dignit, ofMufti, who is the head of both religon and lama ong "the lurks Were mr dealers in fmall■weights to be dealt with accordin to the Turk¬ish law, the poor might not be fo much impofeias they ate now.f; I N l S.I