A SKETCH frisOFTHB ^^ Life and Character of His Royal ^Highness the late| Suite of Ij With an Account of the FUNERAL/^GLASGOW-Printed for the Booksellers.1827.SKETCHHis Royal Highness Prince Frederick, sejjcond son of George III., and brother to his present Majesty, was born on the 16th of August176*5. When he was but seven months old hwas elected Bishop of Osnaburgh, a nominal oh;fico, to which the Elector of Hanover has thpower of influencing the election alternately wit!another European Power. On the 25th July1771, His Royal Highness wa* installed a Knighof the Most Noble Order of the Garter, in companv with his two brothers, the Princes of Waleand Cumberland, in presence of the SovereignThe education of His Royal Highness under tlapaternal eye of George 111, was strictly attendeeto; and the pictures which are left m of the domestic life pursued under His Majesty’s sanctionare such as to convince us of his paramount re¬gard for the blessings of a tranquil life. Purinjtheir childhood, the Prince of Wnit « and the sub¬ject of our memoir were remarkably attached treach other. They studied together, and played together, and werenoticed as being extremely devotetto each other’s society. They slept in the saintroam, in separate beds, on the ground floor, itBuckingham House, looking to the gardensTheir summer residence was on Kt w Green. Thtgrounds at the back of this House extended to thibanks of the Thames; at one part was an extensivegrass plot, where they used to amuse themsclv •by playing at single-wicket, and cricket. Theyttcie boat of them remarkably active, particular-3!|l}' the Duke. It was here that His Highness,Hused frequently to order two of the attendants tomiise a garter to the height of his mouth, from whichlie retreated, and then sprung over it. He could'(repeat this exertion several times without failing.The early years of the life of His Royal High-i ness were spent in comparative tranquillity andijpi ivacy. Nothing deserving of any particular no-litice occurred till the period when he was createdfDuke of York and Albany. This event tookIiplace on the 27th of November 1789. This veryijyear was marked by a circumstance so remarkableii in the history of the Royal Duke as to require a^particular mention. We allude to the affair ofn honour with Colonel Lennox, afterwards Duke of|- Richmond. This dispute originated in an obser-i’ration of His Royal Highness, viz. that * ColonelLennox had heard words spoken to him at theij Club, at Daubigney’s, to which no •gentlemannought to have submitted.’. This observation beingr reported to the Colonel, he asked His Royal High-(ness, at the parade, what the words were he hadii submitted to hear, and by whom spoken; the:] Duke gave no answer, but ordered him to his post.] Colonel Lennox then wrote a circular to everyii member of the Club, requesting to know whetheri any such words had been used to him; and theirii silence was to be considered a declaration that n^i such words could be recollected. As no answers! were, returned, the Colonel requested His RoyalHighness to contradict the report; but he havingIj declined to do so, the Colonel sent him a challenge.I: The parties met at Wimbledon Common. TheI Duke of York was accompanied by Lord Raw-f. don ; Colonel Lennox by the Earl of Winchelsen.Ij The distance was twelve paces. On the signal.being given, Colonel Lennox fired, and the bal!!lgrazed his Royal Highness’s curl. The Duke::having refused to fire, the affair terminated.”This transaction excited a great deal of interestsHis Majesty was so affected by it, notwithstandingits fortunate termination, that lie abstained in asgreat measure from his usual amusements. The]Duke of York appeared the least concerned of thetRoyal party, and the following singular occur-rrence will demonstrate the leelings by which dif-jferent members of the Royal member were influ-j:enced on the occasion :—‘ In consequence of the recovery of George III.from his lamentable indisposition, the King’s:birth-day, in 17S9, was celebrated with unusual |splendour. The King, however, was not present Iduring any part of the day, owing to the shock iloccasioned by the duel so recently fought between IIthe Duke of York and Colonel Lennox. In the :ievening a most splendid ball was given, and not- •withstanding what had so recently happened, and Ithe established etiquette, that no person should I:stand up at country dances who had not danced I:a minuet, Colonel Lennox appeared in the circle pwith Lady Catherine Barnard. This the Prince tiof Wales did not petceive until he and his part- •ner, the Princess Royal, came to the Colonel’s ;place in the' dance, when, struck with the impro- J|priety, he took the hand of the Princess, just as !ishe was about to be turned by the Colonel,, andled her to the bottom of the dance. The Duke ofYork and the Princess Augusta came next, andthey turned the Colonel without notice or excep¬tion. The Duke of Clarence, with the PrincessEl izabeth,vcame next, and His Royal Highnessfollowed the example of the Prince of Wales. ,5iTie dance proceeded, however, and Colonel^ennox and his partner danced down, but whenhey came to the Prince and Princess, His Royaldijjhness led his sister to the chair bv the side ofhe Queen. Her Majesty then, addressing hcr-elf to the Prince, said, ‘ You seem heated, Sir,.! md tired.’ ‘I am heated and tired. Madam,’;?aid the Prince, ‘ not with the dance, but with .dancing in such company.’ ‘ Then, Sir,’ saidjihe Queen, ‘ it will be better for me to withdraw,and put an end to the ball.’ 4 It certainly will bej.o,’ said the Prince, 4 for I never will countenanceSEnsults given to my family, however they may berented by others.’ At the end of the dance, herMajesty and the Princesses withdrew, and thusH he ball concluded. The Prince, with his usualBpailnntry, afterwards explained to Lady Cathe-arine Barnard the reason of his conduct, assuringIther ladyship that it gave him much pain to be ob-to subject a lady to a moment’^ embarass-» It is now well known that the severe mea¬sures taken by His Royal Highness to discouragejihe practice of duelling, have almost succeeded innbanishing it from military society. Amid the po¬litical agitations of the year 1791, the marriage)Jof His Royal Highness to a Princess of the[ House of Prussia, served to cement more closelylithe relations which the Courts of St James’si and Berlin had found it 'their interests to con-I(tract, with the view of counterpoising the inordi-Inate ambition and mighty projects of the restless’Empress of Russia. The treaty touching this al-iliance was signed at Berlin on the 26th of Janu-ii ary, 1791, by Sir Morton Eden on the part of theilKing of England, and three representatives on be¬half of his Prussian Majesty.sTlie Kiijtr, iu liis speech on the opcnlptr of Par¬liament, on the 31st January, 1792, communicateei to both Houses the important change whichha I taken place in h;* family, and invited the)Commons to consider of the means of enablinghim to keep his engagement^ with his brother ofPm ssia. The House, in cofigideration of his ma-Jtrimonial connexion, voted him an annuity ofL.25,000, in addition to his then income ofL. 12,000 a-year.The marriage of His Royal Highness withthis amiable Princess took place at Berlin on the p29th of September 1791. On the arrival of theRoyal party in England, they were re-married atSt James’s on the 24th Nov., and on the 23d ofDecember received at court. The Duchess wasnearly four years younger than her husband, inperson she was below the ordinary female stature,and of an extremely delicate figure; her com-p'exion was fair, her hair light, her eye-lashes longand nearly whita, and her eyes blue By theDuchess His Royal Highness had no is«ue.From his earliest age Elis Royal Highness wasdestined to the profession of arms, the study ofwhich formed an essential part of his education.In pursuance of this object, and for the acquire¬ment of the French and German languages, hewas sent by the late King to the Continent, inthe year 1780, and continued abroad until 1737;his established residence dining that periodbeing Hanover, from whence be made excursionsto various parts of Germany, visiting \ lenua,Berlin, and other capitals, and also attending fi ereviews of the immortal Frederick, and acquiringa minute knowledge of the theory and practice ofPrussian tactics, at that period considered themodel for the imitation of every military man.7The Duke of York entered the service on theilst of N ovember 17'0, as Colonel in the army,■was appointed shortly after to the command ofthe Horse Grenadier Guards, and, in October,’,1734, to that of the Coldstream Regiment at(Guards. Me returned to the Continent in11791, for the purpose of serving as a volunteerifi tiie Prussian army, in the event of a warwith Rmsia, which, h. wever, did not take place.It was not lone after his return to England,I that His Royal Hmlmess was called into actualtan.I severe public services. Troops were em-, baiked tor Holland, and His Royal Highnesswas selected tor the command ot a small corpsof Punish t loops, des ined to co-operate in thedefence of Holuipd, which had been invaded by,a Trench army, uud-r Genual Dumourier.'Hie Duke having, upon this occasion, beenpromoted to the rank of Lieutenant-General,proceeded, with a brigade of guards, and someartillery, -xhidi landed at Hclvoet Sluys, oji the1st of March, and the soiccesses of Uie AustrianHarms having soon after removed the war fromithe frontiers of Holland, he joined the allied(! Austrian and Prussian arm}’.1'lie first military operations, in which His| Royal Highness assisted, occurred in the neigh-ibourhood of Tournay, and near St Amand andi Vicogne, in the month of May, in the course ofwhich he was promoted to the rank of General,in the subsequent battle of Faniars, on the 23dMay, he cammanded a principal column of theallied army, and bore a distinguished share inthe success of that brilliant day, the result oftwhick was, the investment and siege of Valen-iiciennes. The direction of this operation was en-trusted to His Royal Highness, while the Prince •of Coburg covered it on the side of Bouchain iand Cambrai, on the left bank of the Scheldt. |Valenciennes having capitulated on the 28thof July, the Duke of York joined the mainarmy, and co-operated, on the 7th and 8th of IAugust, in the movements against the enemy’s ■positions of the Camp de Cesar, Bois de Bour- fbon, Sic , upon the line of the Scheldt, from !all which they were dispossessed, or retired, al¬though without material loss.The Prince of Coburgh, after these operations, jlaid siege to Quernoy, and subsequently investedManbuege, while the Duke of York continuedhis march in the direction of Orchies, Tourccing,•and Menin, with the British, Hanoverian, andHessian troops, to which was added a body ofAustrians, under the orders of Lieutenant-Gene¬ral Alvintzy.The object of this separation was the siege ofDunkirk, which had been determined upon bythe British Cabinet, and which was viewed withregret, not only by the Austrian Chiefs, but alsoby His Royal Highness, who had remonstratedagainst it, as far as he could; at the same time,when he found his repiesentations unavailing, heproceeded with the utmost zeal to the execu¬tion of a measure,' from which may reasonably bedated the subsequent reverse of fortune on theFrench frontier. The Dutch troops were tocover the march of His Royal Highness’s army bythe frontier of West Flanders, but having, on theISth of August, been driven with loss from severalposts, which they occupied during the passage ofthe British troops through Menin, His RoyalHighness ordered the Brigade of Guards to theirO D9support, which occasioned the action of Lincelles,in which that corps so greatly distinguished itself.Alter this His Royal Highness proceeded, with¬out farther interruption, to Fumes, whence headvanced with a part ot his force, by Gyveldt, to¬wards Dunkirk, while F. M. Freytag, with theremainder, took the direction of Bergues andMount Cassel, in order to cover the opera¬tions of the siege, and after a succession ofsevere and sanguinary actions, fought by the be¬sieging and covering armies with success, thoughwithout any positive effect, the principal of whichoccurred on the 2411) of August, (when the gal¬lant Genera! D’Alton fell,) and on the 6th and8th of September, the Duke of vork found him¬self under the necessity of raising th#*siege, andretiring to Furnes, on the night of the 8th of Sep-Itember, in consequence of the covering army be¬ing driven from Bambecke, Roesbrugge, Rex-poede, &c. bn the 6th, and defeated on the 8th,by General Houchard, near Houdschoote, bywhich His Royal Highness’s left flank and rearr were exposed, and his communications renderedi insecure. His Royal Highness had contendedi with perseverance against numerous and increas¬ing difficulties, arising from the rapid accumula¬tion of the enemy’s means of resistance, the delayon the part of the British Government in forward¬ing the necessary ordnance and stores, and theneglect in providing any means of naval co-oper¬ation, even such as might secure His Royal Pligh-ness’s positions from molestation by the enemy’ssmall craft on the coast. The retreat was effectedin good order, and without any other loss thanthat of the heavy iron ordnance, which, being onship carriages, could not be removed, and the ar-nm.y re-assembled at Furneaand Dixmude.10The Duke of York returned to Tournay, inwhich place and the neighbourhood, he continueduntil the close of the campaign. On the 22d and26th October the enemy were repulsed in some at¬tempts upon his advanced posts, near Baisieuxand Cysoing. On the 28th October, Id is RoyalHighness made an attack upon Lannoy, in co¬operation with a movement which General Wal-moden undertook, by his direction, against Menin,which the enemy had occupied. The result ofthese operations was the evacuation by the enemydf Mcnin, and their abandonment of the invest¬ment of Ypres, and of the siege of Vieuport, whichthey had been in con raged by hi? Royal Highness'smarch to Englefoutaine to undertake. In the de¬fence of Niemport, part of a detachment which hadlanded at Ostend, under Sir Charles Grey, as atemporary reinforcement to the Duke, of York’*army, had co- perated.On the 29th of October, a very biifbant attackand surprise of the enemy and fortified port ofMarchiennes, in which they lost more than 2000men, was executed by General Keny, under theorders of His Royal Highness. Some triflingaiFairs in front of Tout nay, and on the Lys, to¬wards the end of November, terminated the cam¬paign in West Flanders The army wentinto winter quarters, the Duke of York’shead quarters being at Gheiit, whence, attendedby General Mack, lie proceeded to England, toconcert the plan and measures for the ensuingcampaign, with the British Government.His Royal Highness returned, in the month ofFebruary 17fH, from England to CourtraiThe army had been considerably reinforced bydrafts from the British regiments, and by addi-i'~\ rtHytrilsHiit••Wfli ~ iifa MU11•lional corps of Hanoverians, Hessians, and Darqi-istiidt troops, taken into British pay. The troopsiunder his command moved successively to Tour-Inay, St Amand, and the Plains of Cateau, wherejthe greater part of the allied army was united, un-ider the command of the Emperor, on the 16th of(April. On the following day a general & successfulMittack was made on the enemies’ positions at Vaux,i'Premont, Marets, Catillon, &c , and Landrccicswas immediately invested. His Royal Highnesscommanded the right wing of the covering armyduring the siege. A detachment of cavalry fromhis corps gained a considerable advantage on theiSS'ith of April, near Villers en Canchia, towardsCambria; and on the 2Glh, His Royal Highness:omp!etely defeated, near Troixville, with greati daughter, and the loss of 35 pieces of cannon, a:orpi of 30,000 men, which, under the orders ofGeneral Chnpuy, attacked his position. GeneralChapuy was taken prisoner, with a considerablenumber of officers and men.On the loth of May, the enemy, in consi¬derable foice, attacked the Duke of York’s positionin front of Tournay, but H. R. H., by a judiciousnnd well executed flank movement of the cavalry,'defeated and drove them across the Marque, with:i great loss of men, and 13 pieces of cannon.The general attacks of the 17th and 18th ofP*ay, were'the result of the assembly of the AlliediJForces. The circumstances attending them, theBailure of the operations, and the share which his) loyal Highness’s Corps had in the events of those/lays, and in the loss sustained, aregenerally known.Elis Royal Highness’s Corps was left tobutend against the entire force of the enemy,i!/ho were enabled to assail it in front, flank, and12fear. Every exertion of gallantry was unavailingagainst such feiyful odds, so disposed; and the re¬treat was with difficulty, and with a loss propor¬tionate to the arduous nature of a contest, main- .*tained against large masses of troops, whose atten¬tion was to have been engaged by the ArchdukeCharles on the one side, and General Clerfayt onthe other. It is proper to mention, thatin this affiiir of Tournay, the English army wasquite surrounded by the French, and no resourcewas left but to cut their way through an enemy in¬finitely superior in numbers; this was no soonerthought of than measures were adopted for thepurpose. The French, however, not daring tooppose so brave a band, made a lane for them topass through, and coolly received them on eachfjde with showers of musketry.In this movement, H.R. H. the Duke ofYorknarrowly escaped being made prisoner. Accom¬panied by an Austrian General and two otherofficers, he reached a village which had been takenthe preceding day from the enemy, and supposingit still in the hands of the allies, they rode throughit at full gallop. In turning the corner of one ofthe stroets rather sharply, they discovered that thevillage was then in the hands of the French, and9 column of the enemy facing them ; the latter,supposing the Duke was at the head of a body oftroops, at first fled, after having fired a volley atthem, which killed the Austrian General by theside of His Royal Highness. Recovering, how¬ever, from this error, the French pursued the Dukeand his two companions until they came near ariver. The Duke threw himself off his horse, andso did one of the officers, and they waded thr*ughthe river, the third taking the water with his horse.IS.All this was done under the fire of the French,who had brought a 6:pounder to bear on them.(On the other side of the river, the Duke fortunately(met with a led horse of Capt. Murray’s, which heimounted, and thus arrived in safety at Tournay.The allies resumed their positions in front of'Tournay, the left wing being formed of the troopslunder the Duke of York’s orders. Upon this po¬sition, or rather the right and centre of it. Generali'Pichegru made a formidable attack on the 22d, forIwhich he had collected nearly 100,000. The vil-idage of Pontechin, on the right, was taken and re-itaken several times in the course of the day, andwas alternately disputed by Austrians, Dutch, and[IBritish. The Duke of York having detachediMajor-General Fox’s brigade from the left, to the(support of that point, the effort made by this bri-agade decided the contest, and the village remained(in the possession of the Allies.On the ?0th June, General Pichegru advancedtowards Mandel, and obliged General Clerfayt to.retire upon Deynse. Tlmmovementof the enemy,i,'by bringing them nearer to the Scheldt, rendered«the Duke of York’s position in front of Tournaynno longer tenable, and his Royal Highness quit¬ted, on the 24th June, with all the British, and aapart of the Hessian troops and encamped between,iRenaix and Oudenarde. The enemy attacked Gcn-icral Clerfayt near Ghent, butwere repulsed. Thesemovements occasioned the interruption of theocommunication with Ostend, where Lord Moira[.had arrived from England, on the 26th June, witha reinforcement of 5000 infantry. His Lordship,ohowever, determined to effect a junction with HisilRoyal Highness’s army. On the latter day Ostendliwas VHCuatod by Colonel Vyse, wtiom Lord Moirabad left tliore with a brigade of British troops,which Were embarked and removed with the ar¬tillery and stores.His Royal Highness’s army was encamped, andcantoned between the Waal and the Leek, occupy-' ing the line of the former river as far as the islandof Bommei, in which Dutch troops were stationed.In this position the army continued unmolested,until His Royal Highness’s return to England,which took place early in December.In February, 1795, his Majesty was graciouslypleased to nominate the Duke of York to the situa¬tion of Commander-in-Ch et, an office, at that timenot less important than it had become arduous,from the deplorable effects of the inefficiency andabuse which prevailed in every branch and depart¬ment of the military service. There existed nopositive system of discipline, no rule of promotion.In September, 1799, the Duke of York wascalled from the immediate duties of his officialsituation at home, to assume the command of anexpedition undertaken by the Bi itishGovermnent,for the deliverance of Holland, at a period whenthere was reason to hope that the success obtainedby the Austrian and Russian armies in Germanyand Italy would prevent the French from offeringany vigorous resistance in Holland, especially if theattempt to emancipate that country should be sup¬ported by the inhabitants, as there appeared justgrounds to expect.Preparations were made early in the summerfor this enterprise, for which it was intended toassemble 50,000 British troops, who were to bejoined of the coast of Holland by 17,000 Russians.On the ISth of September 1799, the day on15jlvliich His Royal Highness landct! in Holland andaook tlie command of an arnvy of 36,000 men, ofivhom 17,000 were Ru-sinn*. On tire 19th of theame month he attacked the French near Alkmaor,»ut, in consequence of the want of discipline or•mirage of the Russians, he was obliged to retreat.3n the Sd of October he again attacked the Fltenchiid succeeded in defeating them At length,fter further unavailing efforts on the part of ourt my, suspension of arms was agreed on. and ti-lally the British troops enibaikcd fry Kngland,| nd prisoners were given up on botli sides.Upon his return to England, the Duke of YorkItgain directed his time and attention to the ameli-firation of the military system ; each succe-sivr yearilfforded fresh proofs o! »lhe benefits nii.-iirg fromnis unabated exertions, and it mu^ be admitted,!liat owing to these, and the many wise regulations•srablished by his Royal Higiiness, the BiitUhrrmy, at this moment, offers a model of perfectionto every military nation.In sketching the principal events of the life of hisijU H. there is one passage which will be brieflyIp a ted, viz Tlie unfortunate connection with Mr*,tllllarke. Rumour at first began to be busy re-iipecting his official purity. The vague chargesilvhich were thus set afhmt soon embodied ihem-elves in the defined shapes of pamphlet-, letter-,jfcc. Insinuations were circulated that such wasl.v itifliience excrched by Mrs. Clarke over hisi,Royal Highness, and so notorious was that it.flu-ifuce, that ladies ami gentlemen of the highest rankifiecame her suitors for military promotions — even(Divines of the Church, had considered her as theMountain of preferment.On the 27th of Jan. 1809, Col. Wardle intrdiduced the subject in the House of Commons, an^jsubmitted five cases of corruption to the Housedwhich he was prepared to substantiate. The firsrjcase was that of Torryn. He paid Mrs CiarkejlL.500 on beint; promoted to the rank of Major Uor more correctly speaking, this sum was paid tsla silversmith on Mrs Clarke’s account, in pimjpayment of a service of plate which had been onldered for herself and his R. H. The second caswas that of an exchange which was effected betweeen two colonels (Brooke and Knight) and fo.which Mrs Clarke received L.200. The thirccase was of a diiferent description, that two mos;meritorious officers, who mutually wished to exchange, were prevented from doing so, in conse¬quence of their inability to make the presentiwhich were expected. The fourth case was mor<important than any of the former. A Major Shawhad, after repeated negociations, obtained fromMrs C. the assurance that he should receive theappointment of Dep. Barrack-master at the Cape,on paying her L.1000. He ultimately receivedthe appointment, but was enabled to make good toMrs Clarke no more than L 500 The Ladycomplained to the Commnnder-in-Chief, and theunhappy defaulter, instead of going out to theCape, was kept at home, and reduced to half-pay.The fifth case was that, in 1804-, Col. French wasappointed, through Mrs Clarke’s influence, to con¬duct a levy. He was to pay over to her a guineaof the bounty of each man, together with the saleor patronage of commissions to a certain extent.A loan was also to be raised by the same party forthe use of the Duke, for which he was to obtain aconsiderable sum of money from Government for17>1. French. The last case related to Capt. Mal-who, through the influence of Mrs Clarke,wasppointed to an ensigney, and to the rank of Lieut.nJ Capt., he being all the while acting as Clerkn a public office, without ever having handled a'word even for the sake of form. The present Dukeif Wellington was then a member of the house,Ind warmly espoused the cause of the Duke. Af¬ter some Debate the House agreed to receive thevidence that might be adduced by the accuser, ini committee of the whole House. On the 9th ofMarch, the case being closed, Mr Wardle movedin address, in which, after reciting substantiallyihe nature of the evidence, and the inference to beIrawn from it, he expressed an opinion that theyuke ought to be removed from his office. Thisnotion gave rise to a long debate. Several amend-inents were proposed, one by the Chancellor of the‘Exchequer, declaring the innocence of the Duke :mother by Mr B. Bathurst, declaring him to bei;uilty, at the same time acknowledging his greatjifficial services. On the 17th, the Chancellor of•ihe Exchequer proposed some amendment. How¬ever, whilst these debates were about to close, hisr H* waited on the King, and tendered his resig¬nation in a written document, which commencesi these terms; — ‘ The House of Commons, afterj longand full investigation of the merits of certainHlegations against him, passed a resolution of hisInnocence 5 he might now approach his Majesty,nd venture to tender to him his resignation of'>he chief command of his Majesty’s army, as heould no longer be suspected of acting from anyipprehension of the result, or be accused of havinghrunk from the extent of an inquiry, from which,Daintul ns it had been, he trusted he should appear.even to those who had been disposed to con-J)demn his conduct, to have met with the pa-ftience and firmness which could arise only from aconscious feeling of innocence.’ In his retircmentJthe Duke used to console himself in the society oihis friends. In the meantime the charge and theproceedings on it made a sensible impression.Thanks were forwarded from various places tcCol. \Vardle. Some of those addresses were clia-ractcrised by very strong language, anti no doubtmust have been to Col. Wardle more than a coun¬ter-balance for the charges of Jacobinism, conspiracy, treason, &c. which were levelled against himin and out of the House.While the unprejudiced part of the communitydeplored the retirement of his Royal Highnessthe whole army deeply participated in that feelingbut the habits of subordination, which had been scessentially promoted by the personage whose mis;fortune they regretted, and which were, upon thi:occasion, enforced by his advice to those corpswhich expressed a desire to address him, taugh ithem to bear it in silence, confident that the timewas approaching when the merits of prejudic*would vanish before a conviction of the truth.That day at length arrived, when the wishes <>the country at large were eagerly met by the Illus-itrious Heir Apparent, and the Duke of \’ork onctfmore consented to fill the high situation to which:his ext'aordinary merits so justly entitled him.During the interval of his Royal Highness’sretirement, the office of Commander in-Chief had jbeen filled by General Sir David Dundas, whose!. i   ^  r •  n 1  .119those holding official military situation?, under bisimmediate direction, was truly praise-worthy, and[although some of them were early distinguished byhis friendship, it must be observed, in proof of theiassertion, “ that private favour had not influencedthe choice;” that General Brownriggs, his first'Military Secretary, became first known to him byibis meritorious discharge of the duties of Deputy(Quarter-Master-General, in Flanders, in 1794',and that the distinguished individuals, who suc¬cessfully filled that office, were not personallyknown to his Hoyal Highness until some yearsifter he became Commander-in-Ghief, and thenowed their appointments to his tifficial sen^e ofrheir value.i The Duke was regular in his attendance to ba¬dness, to which the greater part of every day wasdevoted. Every arrangement, the most minute,was submitted by the heads ot departments tor hisSanction; the memorial of every officer—the pc-lition of every soldier, engaged his personal atten-ifipn, nor were any suffered to pass unnoticed,j Tuesdays and Fridays (during the Session of•Parliament), and other periods, Tuetdays only,ivere the days on which his Royal Highness gaveaudiences to Officers of every rank, who wished Kiapproach him on business.i In the year 1 S‘20, the Duchess of York died,ijifter having endured a lingering and painful dis-I'ase. Wiih this Cady, the Duke lived on term*!>l (I. ctn y, hut n it of affictum.j Shortly afterwards his Royal Highness drewwe itfention of the public towards him by a de-raration o! his intention to sit and vote dm ng theQueen's ir al.; Yhe speech wdiieh his R. H delivered in Parlia-ment on the 25th April J823, on the subject of theiCatholic claims, has been too much the subject ofcrecent commentary to require any descriptioniWhatever were the feeling of others on the subjectsof it, nothing can be more certain, than that hiaR. H. speke with the most perfect sincerity, and}under a sacred consciousness that he was rightJHis R. H. in the early part of his career, as weljas in the later stages of his life, showed a strongattachment to the amusement of horse-racing.;and his attendance at Newmarket was punctualbut he never allowed his partiality for this recrea-ilion to interfere with his duties ; and it was knowrthat he often suffered a great degree of inconvehi-1ence in hastening his return to town that the busi-ness of his office might undergo no embarrassmentHaving now brought this hasty sketch to a closeit may be said—what those who were acquaintedwith his character well knew—that in private lifehe was sincerely respected and beloved as an ami¬able, affable, kind, and warm-hearted man. H«readily lent a hand to distress, whenever it was h ihis power to relieve it; and it was often observedof him, that he underwent freouent struggles vvhci :cases came before him in which it was impossibhfor him to reconcile the granting of favour whichwould be inconsistent:-with the rigid adminht attion of his public duty. In his official capacityhis merit is attested by the state of discipline iiwhich the army is now kept—by the fairness willwhich honours are granted—and by the generegood conduct and sense of honour which are infused into the profession. If he had not the praisof being the originator of all those salutary regtilations himself, yet he had to boast of that which21Queen Elizabeth thought the highest praise—namely, placing about him able and intelligentcounsellors.His Royal H ighness had laboured under adropsy since the month of July last, for the relieftof which His Royal Highness underwent an ope¬ration on the 3d of September.The same unclouded state of his intellects ad-unitted of his reading the newspapers constantly,nnd of feeling interested in what was going on,nad the opinions of his medical attendants beenexpressed in daily bulletins of his health,his intelligence would have recoiled upondm with a fatal force, by destroying those san¬guine hopes of recovery which contributed so es-tentially to the efforts of art to do him good; and'could have precipitated the sad event which we allaow deplore. *• It is this consideration alone■ hat explains and justifies the silence of the Physi-lians on the subject of the Royal Duke’s health ;-a regular statement of which would have beenhilly demanded, under other circumstances, byhe zealous and affectionate attachment of a loyalpeople to the Presumptive Pleir of the Throne.I His Royal Highness expired on Friday 5thannary 1827, at twenty minutes past nine in theivening. He was in his sixty-fourth year, beingorn on the 16th of August, 1763. His style and(ties were ns follows: — Prince Frederick, Dukef York and Albany, Earl of Ulster in Ireland,•tiishop of Osnaburgh, a Field Marshall, Com-hander-in-Chief of all the Land Forces, Colonel oflie First Regiment of Guards, Colonel-in-Chiefofne 60th Regiment of Infantry, Officiating Grandlaster ofthe Order of the Bath, High Steward of32New Wimlsnr, ami Warden and Keeper of NcForest, Mampshire, Knight of the Garter, andvarious Fore ign Orders, &c. &c.Hy the death of His Koval Highness, the sucession to the Crown devolves upon His Roy.'Highness the Duke of Clarence, who is now He^Presumptive to the Throne .of these Realms, aniin the event of his decease, without issue, HMajesty’s Royal niece. Alexindrina Victorisdaughter of the late Duke of Kent, will stunin that important relation to the Imperial CrowjIn the event of her death, the successiowould descend to His Royal Highness the Dukof Cumberland ; and after Kim, to his so 1Prince George Frederick, who is the same a{as the Princess Alexindrina, there being onthree days difference in the period of their birt!The Duke of Sussex, the Duke of Cambridg)and his children, would ascend the Throne onin the case of death removing all these prit|claimants.His Royal Highness was of a fair and sanguhcomplexion, above the middle size, of a robust avigorous constitution, which promised a long liIn his youth he was accounted handsome, but ftmany years before his death he was exceeding!corpulent, and bis form had lost its symmetryGreat good nature was expressed in his opcjcountenance, which, however, had by no mearan intellectual cast. His voice had little flexibilitand his utterance was disagreeable.FUNERAL.Se»er«) hour*.before, daylight, on Saturday, 20t!i January, tlstreets of the metropolis presented a scene of bustle and activitwhich exhibited a marvellous contrast to its wonted stillness' atsilence at that early period.When the clock struck eight, the procession issued from the Rjlace m nearly the following order : —2SThree Life GuarrU, *o clear the way.Eight Knights Marshelmen, with black staves.Two Mourning Coaches and four, followed by several Mourn¬ing Coaches drawn by six horses.The Carriage of the deceased Duke, drawn by six horses, decorat¬ed with escutcheons, and carrying his Coronet and Baton.A Detachment of His Royal Highness's Body Guard.THE HEARSE.Another Detachment of his Body Guard.The King’s Carriage, drawn by six horses.IThe Carriages of the different IVlembers of the Royal Family, eachdrawn by six horses.Another Detachment of the Life Guardi.A detachment of Lancers, 10 abreast brought up the r-ar.^ As the hearse and coach proceeded along, all the troops present¬ed arm* in the reverse order, the Lancers lowering their lances and>anncrs. An immense number of attendants dressed in b'ack*uvalked on either side of the hearse, and of the horses. In anotherline beyond them, walked twelve Yeomen of the Guard, on eachfade of the hearse and horses; their pikes, about the heads of{which was black crape, were lowered and carried under the rightirms.Light horsemen in deep black, with funeral truncheons; twoheralds on horseback, and a troop of about 50 Life Guards, whoijhad parsed out of the park, through the iron gate by Marlborough-Jbouse, with swords reversed, under the right arms, followed.-The troops here, as in other portion* of the procession, proceed-led two by two.| The first of the Royal Carriages, attending to form part ofilhe Funeral Procession, next joined the line. These car-iriages and alt the other parts of the Procession that followed came,(out of the Park, where every thing had keen so arranged as to pre¬sent the least unnecessary delay. This first carriage was his(Majesty** town (not the state) carriage. It was drawn by six.horses. Behind it were four footmen, dressed in the new Courtilivery. as were all the Coachmen and footmen of the several other(Royal carriages, succeeding to His Majesty’s carriage. Onleach side of his Majesty's carriage, several mourners, with funer-*1 truncheons walked; and mourners walked on each side of thehorses, some of them keeping hold of the horses’ heads.The Duke of Clarence's carriage followed, and it was succeed-ltd by. those of the Duke of Sussex, the Princess Sophia, the(Duke of Gloucester, and the Duchess of Kent. They were{drawn by six bay horses, each, and behind each were three foot-imon.;i The carriage of the Prince Leopold of Saxe Coburg followed,lit was also draw'* by six bay hordes, and behind it were four foot-I2imen. On each side of these several coaches, walked mourners witfuneral truncheons.Twenty mourners on horseback came next, with large silk scarf!;and bearing funeral wands.CEREMONIES IN ST. GEORBE’s CHAPEL.At eight o’clock, according to previous concert, the proce9ion reached its destination, and the servants, grooms, trumpets, artdrums, filed without the door. The individuals in the mourninand other carriages then alighted and entered the Chapel. Thhearse finally approached, and the body was immediately Carrieinto the south aisle by ten Yeoman of the Guard, where it w»placed on the bier, which was drawn close up to the door for ireception. It was then received by the Dean and Prebendaries, atended by the Choir...The soldiers who flanked the platform, and who cari*ed torchi!had previously lighted them, and thus an admirable view was obtained of the procession which was then formed under the direction ithe Lord Chamberlain’s Assistants, and moved down the soul Iaisle and up the naive, into the Choir.Upon the arrival of the Procession within the Choir, the ear w*wheeled on the platform, and the Coronet, Baton, and Cushiornwere placed upon the Coffin.His Royal Highness the Duke of Clarence then took his seupon a chair placed at the head of the Coffin ; his supporters staa iiug on each side.His Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex occupied a seat clcto that of his Royal Brother.Tne Lord Chamberlain of his Majesty’s Household took his sition at the feet of the Corpse; and the Supporters of the Pa,Iand of th Canopy, arrang?d themselves on each side.'' ■ ' I