Letter-Writer:CONTAININGA variety of epiftolary correfpon-dence on different Subjects.(in three parts.)viz.Duty and Friendihip.Love, Courtfliip and Marriage.I Bufinefs and the Death of Relatives,To which are added?II Superfcriptions and AddreiTes for Let«ters."i The whole forming a ufeful Companion for thfYouth of both Sexes.STIRLING:PRINTED BY C. RANDALL,1861.PART I.ON DUTY AND FRIENDSHIP.2J . ■ ' ••Son's Letter at School to his Father*itiHonoured Sir,I AM greatly obliged to vou for a!! your favours;ali I have to hope is, that the progrefs I makein my learning will be no dif greeable return foithe fame. Gratitude, duty, and a view of fmureadvantages, ail conipire to make me thoroughlyfenhble how much I ought to labour for my ownimprovement, and you; latisfadlion, and to fhewmyfelf, upon all occaiions,Your nv ft obedient,and ever dutiful Son,ROBERT REID.Letfyr from a Youth at School to his Parents.Honoured Father and Mother,YOUR kind letter of the 24th inftant, I receiv¬ed in due time, and, foon alter, the thingsyou therein mentioned, by the carrier, for which1 return you my fine re thanks They came veryopportunely for my occafions I hope foon to im-Jprove mylelf at fchool, though I own it feems a;little hard and irklome to me as yet; but my mas¬ter giv.s t ie great encouragement, and allures me,,I will foon get the better of the little difficulties!that almolt every Qoy meets wi.h at firft, and themwhl be 3 pemft pleafuye inftead of a talk, and al¬together!1jltogether as pleafant and cafy as it is now irkfome. and hard.I My humble duty to yourfelves : and I beg the fa¬vour of you to give my kind love to my brothersand lifters, and remember me to all my friends andacquaintance : which is at prefent all from,Your verv dutiful and obedi nt Son,CHARLES GOODENOUGH.A Letter cf Excufe to Father or Mother.Honoured S'r, or Mother, 'T AM informed, and it gives me a great concern,that you have heard an ill report of me, whichI fuppofe, was raifed by fome of my fchool fellows,: who either envy my happinefs, or by aggravating; !my faults, would be thought to feem iefs criminal| themfelvet.; though I mult own I have been a littleitoo remifs in my lohool bufinefs, and am now fen-flble 1 have loft, fn fome meafure, my time and■ credit thereby ; but, by my future diiigence, I hopei foon to recover both : and to convince you that I: pay a ftr.cft reg rd to all your commands, which Ii am bound to, as well in gratitude as duty, and hope. 1 ihr.tl ever have leave, with great truth, to fuO-iiferibe myfelf.Your mod dut’ful SonWILLIAM COLLINS.1 From a ycurg Apprentice to his Father, to let himknow how he likes his place, and goes on.Honoured Sir,T Know it will be a grant- fatisfaftion to you andA my dear mother, to hear that I go on very h.p-pily in my butinefs, and my mailer feeing dili¬gence, p its me forward, ar.d encourages ne in fuclia manner that I have great delight in it, and hopeI fhall anfwer in time, your good wiflies and ex¬pectations, and the indulgence whicli yen have al¬ways (hewn me. There is fuch good order in thefamily, as well on my miflrefs’s part as on my imf-ter’s that every lervant. as well as I, knows li s du¬ty. and does it with plealure So much ever nefsJfedatenefs, and -egulari'.y is obferved in all they en¬join or exp-Ct, that it is in polTib:e but it thou’d heTo. My mailer is an honeft worthy man ; every bo¬dy fptaks well of h:m My milt refs is a chearfulfweet tempered woman, and rather heals, breathesthan rives them ; and the children, after furh ex-; amples, behavt to uS a 1 like ones own brothersand filters. Who can but love fuch a family ? Iwith, when it (hall p'eafe God to put me in fuch a{tation, that I may carry myfelf jult as mv mailerdoes, and if I ihould ever many, have juft fu»h awife as my miftr. fs ; and then, by God s blefiing, Ilhall be as happy as they .'.re* and as you, .Sir, andmy dear mother, have always been. If any tlfingj. can-make me happier than 1 am, or continue to mezny preftnt felicity, it wil’ be .the continuance ofyours and my good mother’s prayer.- for, honoured;; Sir, and Madam,Your very dutiful Son.T& a ITcurg Lady) cautioning her ngainjl beeping Com¬pany with a Gentleman cj a bad Character.Dear Niece,^T'HE fincere love and affeCtion which I now have•*- for your indulgent father, and ever had foryour virtuous mother, not long fince deceafi d, toge-■tker with the tender regard I have for your futurehappineis and welfare, have prevailed on me to in¬form you, rather by letter than by word of mouth,that the to wn rings of your unguarded conduct, andthe■ Vhs Uttr.lPnM. 1 1;lie too great freedom that you take with Mr. Trip-^>it. You have befn feen with lahn (if fameies not in the fide boxes of both theatres, at thealue-coat hofpital on a Sondav night, itnfd after-var is at a cer ain tavern, not a mile from thence,Mirh is a houfe (a^ I hu e been credibly informed),>f no good reptre You have both, moreover,:teen leen at Rrnla da atT^ bly, Vauxlia'l gardens j{md what is fiiil more flagrant, at Cupar s fire works.*Don' imagine, mere, that I am in the leaft preju-iiced, or ipeak out of any private piccgue ; but letme tdl you vbar familiarity with him give me no('mail concern, as his charafter is none of the heft,tnd as he has adted in the moll: ungenerous mannerpy tvvo or three very virtuous young ladies of myicqna ntar.ee, who entertained a too fivourabie'pinion ot :vs honour, 'i'is-pofSole, as you haveipo 2reaf fxp ■£\:?.tion from vour relations, and he•ihw an annuity, as his reported, of aool. a yeartt him by his uncle, that you may be tempted toimagin'- his ad r fT-a an offer to your advantage.!| Us much to oe queftibned, however, whether his■ intent'Mas are fin.ere ; [>r notwithftanding all theif.ur prouii.es he may pofli by make you, I have,“pfiarci it whifpererl, that he is privately engaged toa rich, old, doming lady, not far from Hackney.iKdides, adniitnng it to be true, that he is really eu-t’.t: d to the annuity above mentioned, yet it is tooywell.kno-x n that he is deeply in debt *, that he livesinbeyond his income, and ha^ very little, if any regard|(|for his reputation In fhort, not to mince the mat-F^iter, he is a perfedl libertine, and is ever boaftingof favours from our weak fex, whole fondnds andp'i-'-y are the confiant topics of his raillery andiuiculeAll thm s, therefore, duly confidered, let meJlprevail on you, dear Ktece, to ay?id his comp ,n- as1 ' You.o The Letter- Writer.you would a mad ma: ; for notwithflandinr', I {filltliink you (tri<£llv virtuous, yet your good namemay be ifr. parahly loft, by filth open ails of im-p’-u 'erce Vs I have no other rr otive but an un-aflttftedtzral for your intereft and welfare, I flatter !myitlf yoi’ll pm a favourable conftrutftion on theliberty here taken byYour a£Fe£lionnte Friend,and affectionate Aunt.yld’jice from a Father to a yuvg Beginner, ivhat Coin”party to chuf, and bout to behave in it.'4Dear Robin,A o you are now, entering into the world, andwill probably have coniiderable dealings inyour bufinefs, the frequent occafien you will havefor advice from others, will make you defirou? oifi gling out, among your m ft intimate acquain¬tance, ( or two, whom you would view in thelight of friends.In the choice of thehe, your utmoft care and cau¬tion will be necefiai y ; for, by a miftake here voucan fcarcely conceive the fatal'efftffs you may here'after experience. Wherefore it will be proper foryou to make a judgment of tbofc who are fit to beyour acvifers, by the c nirft they have ob eivedin the'fown afFdrs, and the reputation they hear inthe word. For he who has by his own indifcreticns undone himudf, is much fitter to be fet up ■ sa landmark for a prudent mariner to fhun hiscour-ies, tb.an an example to follow.Uld age is generally flow and heavy, youth headfirong and precipitant 5 but there are old men whoatJ full of vivacity, and young men replete vi hdilcietior ; which makes me rather point out theconduct than the age of the perlons with whom youfhould” 7 he Lelter- Writer, 7 1ihou’d rhoofe to afToti te ; ti. ugh after a’lj isll mver fail’.'g oo1 fig to me of piudenc? aidrtue in a young snan, when his feniors choofe hisfimipany. and r.e delights in ;hehu. ii Let your endeavours ther fore be, at all a Iven-C: res, to confcrt yourfelf with men f fob ief v,iood fenfe, and virtue j for the proverb is an uner-tig one that fays, A man is known by 'he . om-pny he keeps If fuch men you caa fing er, while you improve by their con verfatio-, u1 11 ben fit by their advice. And be fure remem ic:ie thing, thit tho’ you muft be frank and nitvjd in deli.ering your fentiments, when occill-is ofiers ; yet, Ji/.t you be much readier to hear. an 10 fpeak ; for to this purpofe it has been fiigni-antly obferved, that nature has given a ma . two■rsi and but one tongue Lay in therefore, byervaticn and mod ell fib nee, inch a (lore ofeas, that you mav, ar the.r ime of life, make noor!e t:gure th n they do and endeavour to bene*: your eif rather by other p ople’s i !s than your'n fdow mult tho,e young men expofe them-v s to the contempt and ridicule of .heir fentors,ho h n ing lem iittl'e or nothing of the world, aremtinuilly (hurt ng ou* by op n mouths and clof-1 ears, all poflioihty of initmfVon ; and makingrm tne principal end ot converfation, which isaprovemtut ? A filent young man makes, general-•, a wile o.d one, anu nevei fails of being refpedt-1 by the Deft md moft prudent men ; wh .u, ihere-■rr, you come among ft angers, hear every oneeak e ore you de iver your own fentiments ; bylis means y-'U will judge o the merit and ca«acitier of your company, and avoid expoling your-■ 1 as * have known many do, by Ihooting outand inconlijierable bolts which they would,ave been glad to recai j when, pet haps, a lilentgeniusItii 1 U.'lgenius In cerr.pany has burQ: out upon them witlilfurh obfervations, as have flruck conrcioufnefs and^fiiame'inro the forward fpeaker, if he has not beenquite inferfible of inward reproach.i have thrown together, as they occurred, a fewthoughts which may fuflicefor the prefent, to fhewmy care and concern for your welfare. I hope youwill conflantly. from time to time, pommunicatefto me whatever you .fljall think worthy of my no¬tice, or in which my advice may be of ufe to youfor I have Do pleasure in this life equal to tha’which the happinefs of my children qivrs me. And;of this, you may be allured ; for 1 am, and eveaiuft be.Your affectionate Father.:■From d Father to a <$?«, cn his negligence inJLtajjai:airs.Dear Jemmy,'S2 OU cannot imagine what a concern your care-leflnefs and indifferent management of your af¬fairs gives me RemilFnefs is inexcufable in all men,♦in none lo much as a man of buflneis, the foul ofwhich is induftry, diligence, and punctual:'y.Let me beg of you to fhake off the idle habits youhave contracted *. quit unprofitable company, andunfeafbnable recreaticn, and apply to your compt-ing houfe with di igence. It mry not yet be too’late to retrieve your affairs. IrdptCt, therefore, yourjgams, and caif up what pr portion they beir toilyour expences ; and then fee which of the latterlyou can and which you cannot contraCb Confider,,that when once a man fuff rs hiu feif to go back¬ward in the world, it muft be an uncommon fpirit:of inidufiry that retiives him, and puts him forward!again.ReflectIReflect, I befeech you, before it be too late, uponthe inconveniences which an inipoverithed traderis put to, for the remainder of his life, which too,may happen to be the primt part ofit j the indignitk*he is like y to f iller from thole whofe money he hasunthinkingly squandered t the contempt lie willmeet witn from all, not excepting the idle compa¬nions of his folly j the injuli.ee he does his family,in depriving tus children, not only of the power ofrailing thenifelvss, but of living tolerably *, and how,OHi-tih ; contrary, from being born to creditable ex-pediations he'finks them into the 1 owe ft clafies ofmankind anh expofes them to the moft dangeroustemptat'ons What has not fuch a father to an-fwer for ! and all this for the fake of indulging him-felf in an idle, a carelefs, a thoughtlefs habit, thatcannot afford the leafl fatisfaftion beyond the pre*\fent hour, if in that; and which mud be attendedwith deep remorfe, when he comes to refledf.Think ferioufly of thefe thing?., and in time, refolveon fuch a courfe as may bring credit to yourfelf,juftice to all you deal with, peace and pleafure toyour ind, comfort to your family; and whichwill give, at the fame time, the higheft fatisfac-lion to,Your careful and loving Father.To a Friend, on occufion of his not anfrvering his"Fetters.1)Dear Sir,TT is fo long fince I had the favour of a line fromyou, that I am under great apprehenfions inrelation of your health and welfare. I beg you,bir, to renew to me the pleafure you ufed to giveme in you corn-fpondence ; for I have w: ttenf three letters to you before this,, to which i havehadhad no arfver, and am not 'o icons cf having anyway difofciiged you. If I have, will moft willing-'ly afk your pardon ; for nobody can be more than,I am,Your affectionate and faithful friend and fervant^In Anfiitr to the preceding.Dear Sir,YOU have rot, c?nnct c’ifoblige me •, but I havegreatly diiobliged myfelf. in my own faui^ryremiffnefs \ I cannot a. count for it as I ought, ho'fay I had bufintfs one time, company another,was diftant from home a third, will be but poorexcufes, for not anfwering one of your kind letters)in four long months 1 therefore ingenuouily takefhame to myhlf, and promife future amendment*and that nothing fhaii ever whiie 1 am able to holda pen, make me guilty of the like negl £h to ifrttnd I love Forgive me then, my good, myjkind, my generous friend $ and believe me ever,Yours, &c.PART II.ON I.CVE, COURTSHIP AND MARRIAGE.From a young Man juji cut of his Apprentic.Jh'p. t}fhis Sweetheart) a Servant in tpe Neighbourhood, jDear Sally,I Have been long in love w th you hut was afraidto tell y< u When I go vi h you to Bagniggeior badlerls W eih, 1 am aim oft i ke a (oo!, and' altogether unfit for company i think cfyou all c.ajj1an at night I dream of my d.zi Sally. 'I am we.ifetued in work, and my wages are eighteen hul¬ling*n lings every week You and I can live on that,p and I Avail bring it home untouched on Saturdayevening l will not go to any alehoule, but asfoon as my work is done return home to my dearlybel >ved Sally. I hope, my dear, you will not beangry, for 1 am really in love. I cannot be happyuniefs you are mine. I was afraid to mention thisto you, but if you will leave an anfwer at mylodgings, 1 will meet you next Sunday, af’er din-iiiiner, at the Shepherd and Shepherdel's,’ when wejpwUt.?eke a walk to tier fey-houi’e and drink tea.Ho v happy ih?dl I be to hear fi omi my charmer ; butI a thoufand times more to tlvnk Are will be mine.1 am, my dear, your real lover.The Anfwer,Dear Jack,T Received your very kind letter, but I don’t know-*• what to fay in anlwer. Although l would beglad to marry, yet you men are fo deceiving, thatthfrre is no fuch thing as trufting you There isTorn Timber, the carpenter, and Jack Hammer,the fmith, who have not been married above fixnsomhs, and every night come home drunk, andbeat their wines What a miferable life it, that.Jack, and how do I know but you may be as badto me ! How do I know but you, like them, may«yt»drunk every night, and beat me black and blue be¬fore morning ! do alibie y u, Jack, if I thoughttha wouid Oe the cale, l would lerub fioors a idicour faucepaps as long as i ive. But poflibly vouwre is Will Copper, the•'rmtbe ais man, wuo a‘e  indcjwa/iia-hsSfVc efda hot jojtu ct av at and a pot of oe r.:., Harrow notyet what I fhull ao \ but a. i i.ke a waik .o Horn.cy,i wiiimay not be io bad,, tor ttI will meet you at the Shepherd and Shepherdefscn Sunday after dinner, anj then v^e will talk moreof the matter.I am, dear J .ck,Your molt humble fervant.From a rcfpcftful Lover to his Mijlrefs.Dear Madam,T HAVE Lng itrugp.led v.ith the moft honourableand rtfpectful paffion that ever Idled the h<can<<iof man : i. have ottm tried to reveal it perfonatly •,as often in this wav, but never, till now, could pre¬vail upon my Ears and doubts Bat I cannot long¬er flruggte with a fecret that has given me ibmuch torture to ke-p, and yer, hitherto, morethan I have endeavoured to reveal it. I never en¬tertain the hope to fee you, without rapture : but,when 1 have that plealure, inftead of being animat¬ed as I ought, 1 am utterly confounded. Whatcan this be owing to, but a i iffidtnee in myfe f,and an txalted opinion of your worthinefs ? Andis not this one Itrong token cf ardei t love i Yetif it be, how various is the tormenting paffion ofits operations ? Since fome it infpires with courage,wbidt others i" deprives of all nectffiry confidence-I can or ly ulTiire you, madam, that the he^rt ofnever co. ceived a ftrenger, or fnterer, paffionthan mine for you. if my reverence h r you \s thecrime, 1 am fine it has been my luflkient punifli-ment. I neeu not lay my deligns and motives arehonourable who dare approach (o much v.rtuousexcellence, v i h a fuppotition that tucli an aflur-ance is necdT ry ? V^l 0tm I    aifHt iii iuiWi aniiBiifca.<i*iwJdhii iinii'fh'tl.ul'i ■TrrrirTTT- Condeicead, madam, to en.bol-my retptrftful nailioo, with one favourableline ijL /.T TTTTTT-:ne ; that if what I here profefs, and hope furtherla have an opportuni'-y to aflurc you of, be fjund? be unq ieft enable truth, then my humble ad-refs wid no quite be unacceptable to you •, andti.ius ytu will for ever oblige o'e^r Maddm,Your affcftionate admirer,and devoted Servant.Sir,anf-wer.W*'0™ a 'jculig Tfadejinan. lately entered intoto his Father^ a/king his cor.fent to Marry.jp Honoured Sir,<.U K.now that it is now above a year fince Ientered into bufh eis for m is f, and landingdaily increafmg, 1 am obliged to look out for anigreeable partner, 1 jnean a wnfe : there is a veryqrthy family ip this neighbourhood, with who inha*’e been f.me time acquaintec. Ihey are inioou cirtumdatifes, and have a daughter an amia¬ble11’! F modefty be the greateft glorv of our fex, furelyI1 it cannot be blame worthy in yours. For my'vn part,. 1 mu ft think it the reft amiable qualityither man or woman can p oft eft Nor can theree, in my opinion, a true refpctft, where there isimt a diffidence of one s own meri', and an highpinion of the performs we eftcemo fay more on this cccafion, would little be-! cme me : to fay lefs, would look as if I knew nottow to pay that regard to modeft merit, which mo-eft merit only deferves.|[ You, Sir, belt know your own heart i and if youre fincere and generous, will receive as you ought’ is franknels from,Your humble Servant.ble young woman, greatly efteemed by all whtftlknow hrr ; I have pJd my addrdTes to her, arJllikewife obtained the parents’ conl’ent, on condition!that it is agreeable to you l would not do anything of that nature without your cpnfent; but {ho^)e that, upon the (ir ccelt enquiry, you will firullher inch a perfon, that you will not haveany objection to a match fo advantageous. I, onevery occafion, endeavour to aft with the greateftprurience, corfiltcnt with the rules you was plealedto prelic ibe for my conduft. The parents are toipay me five hundred pounds on the day cf marriage,if the event theuid happen to take place, and asthey have no other children, they whole of theirproperty becomes curs at their death. In what e-ver light you are pleafed to confkkr this, I fhalllabide by your direftion and your anfwer in the,mean time is impatiently expefted,By your dutiful ion,‘The Father's Atifwer.• My clear Son,T RECEIVED your letter, and my reafcn for notlending iooner is, that it being an atfatr of greatimportance, I was willing to proceed therein withthe i tu,oil caution I wrote to Mr. Jchnibn, myattorney in hew Inn, delirin > him to enquire con-ceniing the family yen defire .o allied with ; amiI am glad to hear his account does not dider frontyour own. I hope you do not think that I wouidldelire to lee you cne moment unhappy- Your rea-fc.-.s for entering into the marriage Hate are everyway fjtisfaftorv, and I am glad to hear that the;perfon on whom >ou have placed your afteftions is;Jo delcrving. When you have fixeu the wedjlingiday, 1 will ccmti to London to be prefent at theceremony,> :eremony, and 1'pend a few dayswith^n^otaj friends I hope you will continue to attend yourI Jutinefs w th the fame diligence you have hithertoi tone, and if you IhoulJ live to an old age, you will3i:hen be ahie to retire from trade with honour, both':o yourlelf and family.i am, dear fon, your affeftionate father.''From a young Womant a Servant in London to herParents, d firing ther Confnt to marry.Honoured Father and Mother,T Have fent this to inform you, that one Mr.'■*- Wood, a young man, a cabinet-rm-.ker, has paidhi; addrtflcs to me, and now oliers me marriage:i told him l would do nothing Without your confent,! and therefore have lent this by William Jones, yourneighbour, who called on me, and will inform youparticularly of his circumftances.I he young man has been let up in bufinefs aboutHtwo years, and is very regular and lobcr. Moftpeople in the neighbourhood eiteem him, and hisbulinsfs is daily increafiug. 1. tmuk I could live ex-remely happy with him, but do not choole to givehim my promde until I have firlt heard from you :whatever aniwer you fend it rad be < beyed by,Your aff cti.mate uao.-ater.WThe Parents’ any user.Dear Child,E received your letter by Mr. Jones, and thecharacter he gives of tire young man is lo a-greeable, that we h.ve no objection to your m-.'ty¬ing him : begging that you will, ferioufly conlider theduties ot tii.it in^ponant date, before it is too late torep nt Lonfuk’i weli with yourlelf, that aecord-ing to your conduct to each other, you mult be ei-1 therXIther h-ppy or mif rable as long as you live. The»iiare many occurrences in Pfe in which the beftmen’s tunp rs may be n ffl il, on account of loff^or difanpointm. n*s ; it yoir hufbind thould at atime be (b, eh' easour to make him as eafy as pofible Be careful of every thing he commits ttjyour'keepi. g ; and never affedt to appear fupeiito your ttation ; for althcugh your circumliancmay be ealy. yet, while in trade you will findcontinual want of money for many different purpoes It is prflible fome of your more pchte neighours may defpre yoti ffr a while, but they willforced in the end to acknowledge, tkat your coh|dndl: was ccniilient with the duties of a marriflate. But, ab^-ve all l eirember your duty to God]and then you may thiarfuUy look for a blefling^c!your honeft endeavours. May God. dircft you ievery thing for the belt, is the Sincere prayer of. Your loving father and mother,lFrom a Lady, after Marriage, to her Cotftur U!tmarried.Dear Coufin,T Have now changed my name, and inftead of liberty. muft fubkr'ibe wife What an aukwartexpreflion, fay fome ? How plealing, lay othersBut iet th.t be as it may, l Itave been married Vmy dear Charles thde three months, and 1 cai;freely acknowledge that I never knew happiuet ktill now To have a real friend to whom I cacommunicate myfecrets, n -i v ho, on all occafionsis ready t.» lynipa.hize with me, is what I never before experienced All theie benefits, my dear coufin, I ha\e met with in niv beloved hufbanu Hr.prmcip.u care teems to be to do every thing poffibllto pleai’e me: and is there not fo met lung called duIncumbent on me : Perhaps you will laugh at therord duty, and fay that it imports fomething likeavery ; but nothing is more falfe , for even thee of a feivant is as pleafant as any other’s- whenr obeys from motives of love inftead of fear, forly own part* my dear, I cannot fay that I am un-illing to be obedient,_ and yet I am not command-id to be fo by mv hufbmd You have often fpok-1 n contemptuoufly of the marriage (fate, and ? be¬lieve ycur reafons were, that moft of thofe whom younew were unhappy : but this, h an erroneous wayf judging. It was ddlgned by the Almighty thaten and women ihoukl live together in a fl-ate oribcietv, that they fhou.d become mutual he'ps toach other ai d if they are b’efTed with chddren,o affift each other in giving them a virtuous cdu-3at:on. I.-et me therefore beg that mv dear coufn' ill no long r defpde that Itrne for which (lie wasefigned, and which is calculated to make her hap-But tiien, mv dear, thee is two forts of menou muft fiudioufl? ',;v i l, 1 mean Mifers and Rohrs.fhe fir ft will take every opportuoi; v of abridgingour^nec. {Tarv f-xpen'ces, amt the f cond will leaveou nothing lor a lubfiltence ' he fir ft, by his pe-mrioufnefs, will caule you to fufFet from imagiga-y wants : the fee nd, by his prodigality, will makerou a real beg: ar But your own Good fenfe will)oint cut the propriety of what 1 have mentioned,^et me beg that you will come and Ipend a fewveeks with us ; and if you have any tafte for ruralmu cwmeftic lifi, I doubt not but you will beileafed,I am, your affl dhonate Coufin,1)11 '■u, Uhr.Wflh,. Congratulating d Perf on upon his Marriagt.Sir,TTHE news T received of fhe happy ch '.nge of yourc nci’tion, rid not a 'itt e.ievive me from themeiancholv, that is too n\i ch accullomed to opprefsmy fpirits, e(pecia!!y upon the knowledge of thehappy eleclion ypu have made of one whofe tdlcre-tion parentage and ■good education, tnuft be fui^-able to your humour. In which fatisfa£Hon, as atrue fr erd, I am not wanting to part cipate in ci¬vility, being very much pleafed t’i :t you have nowdivided th p. wer which you had obtaine 1 over myaffeftions, honouring your fecond fcdf, with that e-tjuality of refprfl. tliat was heretofore entirely youroirn : for ceitain it is, that vour good and ill for-tuiies hand with me in an equal balance ; in which,as a true friend, actually or rtcipracallv,tereft myfdf, being perfua 'ed you "imore doubt ofI mnft in-inake noI have toot it, than of the pafixonftive you in the quality cr,SIRYcurs and your Lady’s\e:y hun Pic Servant,. J- R-PART m.ON BUSINESS AND THE Dt ATH OF RELATIVES.'Prom a Country Chapman beginning Trade to a City• Dealer, fjering bis Correfpondence.nPHE time of my apprenticefhip with Mr. Walker** of this town being expired 1 am juft rob obegin for myfelf in Prefton, having taken a ih»pthere fer that purpefe. And as A kno.i tnefatisfa -tioaThe Letter-Writer. 19n you always gave to my mafter in your dealings*ioake an cfft-rto you of my correfpondence, in ex"!£tation that yru will ufe me as well as you havene him, in whatever I may write to you for.k! this I rather expett as you cannot dlfobliger. Walker by it, becaufe of-he diftance I fhall be:>m him; and f fliall endeavour to give vou equalIntent with regard to my payments, &c. Yourbedy anfwfr, whether or not you arc difp'jfed to:ept of my offer, will oblige,Your humble fervant.In a" finer to the fore going.Have received yours of October aotb, and veryI; chearfully accept the favour you offer me. I11 take care to ferve you in the bed manner I amIle, and on the fame footing with Mr. Walker,>t doubting you will make as purdiual returns as: does, which entir es him to a mor^ favourableage than could otherwife be afforded* I with youccefs with all my heart, and am,Your obliged fervant.An order for Goods, covering a remittance.Sir,} Eceive inclofed, a Bill value Twenty Pounds^ fix hillings fter. in tud of my accompt to thisit :. Pit d'e f n per lii fh Veffrl tor this place, 2neflu. Cor goa Pea at 4s 6d. p r Lb 4 cwt. Raw•gar, a- about yo^. and a puncheon Molaffes,1 ch place to acct of,Sir,IY’our obedient fervant.uiw-nwim.Sir,In anftver—Following the Invoice.■VOUR favour of the, 4th current, came duty *hand, covering a BHi, value Twenty Pour,fix Shillings fter which is placed to your creditfull, and for which I thank you Above, vou, ha*Invoice of goods agreeable to order, lent to tWharf, to go by the Eliza, Cap; Watfon. Hopithey will arrive fafe and yield fatisfadlion, and w;ing your future orders,I am, SV,^ Your obliged fervantre cciiAn offer, of affiffnnee to a Friend, who hasgreat Ioffes by a Perfons Failure.Dear Sir,Am exceedinglv concerned a1 the great lofs yhave lately fuftained by the failure of Mr. PotI hope you behave under it like the man of prudenyou have always fhown yourielf, and as one wlknows how liable all men are to misfortunes. As-am reallv Ge'lrcus of g ving you coni'olations.cheerfnllv offer mv service to anfiveh any prefedemand, and you are at liberty to draw uponto the amount of 200I. which you may have t!\e uof for a twelvemonth or more, if yoof affurs req n;it. In accepting of which you will g ve gre:pleafure toYour fincere FriendFhe Friend's an fiver, on accepting the generous Offt |Mv Dear Friend,1AM at a lofs to find words to expr'-fs the grat;ful fenfe I have of this inflar ce of true generoifriendfliip. My lofs indeed is heavy : but I fmthat lo kind a friend is capable cf making st ’-glI tlxaallbe Letter- W nhr. iinankfully sccept of a part of yonr g-ncrous offer,am ready to give you my bond for ^ ool paya-in a year this Turn is all I fhall havr, octafionand if I did not know I could then return it, l>|jld not accept of your favouri am, dear Si-,Your faithful,and obliged humble fervant.1}a Country CcrrefponJent, requ'Jllng a Balance cfaccompts.FIND myfelf unavoidably obliged,„by a prefentx'gence, to defire the favour of your balancingflccompt between us. For, though matterss run into lome length, I would not have ap-co you, had l known how to anfwer my pre-t occafions (o well any other way. If it does notyou, dr, to pay the whole, I beg you will re-me as much towards it as you can, withoutjudice to your own affairs, which will greatly'g1?*SIR,Your humble Servant.The anfiusr.M very glad it is in my power to fend you im-lediately the inc'ofed draught for L. too, onaecompt between us, and will, in a few days,it the balance of your whole demand, whichbe accompanied with a frefh order.I am very fincerely.Your moft humble Servant422 The Letter-Writer.To a Tcurg Gentleman on the Death cf his FatherDear Sir,1KNOW no part of iife more impertinent thsthe office of arimin’ftering confolation : I vrnot enter upon it for I ca ’not but appiaud yotgrief. The virtuous principles you had for tbexcellent man whom you have loll, have wrougin you as they ought, to make a youth of three at!twenty incapable of comfort, upon coming inthe poffi-ffion of a great fortune. I doubt not- byou will honour bis memory by a mod eft enjoymeof his eftate ; and fcorn to triumph over his grasby employing in riot, excels, and debau> heiwhat he purchafed with fo‘ much induftry, pfdeuce, and wifdcm. This is the true way to (li¬the fc-nfe you have of your lofs, and to take awthe diftrefs of others upon the occafion. You cjnot recal your father by j rief, but you may revlhim to your friends by your ccnduft. I am, &cFrom a Gentleman, nvhofe Wife tvas lately dead, tClergyman in the Neighbourhood.Reverend Sir,YOU h-’ve often, both in public am! private, *' larged on thofe comforts and coniblations wh.Chriitianity affords to the •..fiiidted , and if ever tlwere nrrtflary to one under thofe circumftanothey rnuft be to mylelf About (even, laid nigmy wife died in child-bed, and I am left the <confolate parent of five young children Had yfeen the excruciating tortures under which (hepire it would, have reminded you eft. the empbof that cur(e pronounced upon our firft parents)their rebe lion againft God. When (ne law Fking of terrors approach, flic was all refigratioithe divine will, Jtfld left this lower world inThe Letter-Writer. 22ie miEner, an^ with, the fame cheerful alacrity,f (he had been g'dng to vifi: a friend, or attend| fervice of h r Maker Overwhelmed withf ! entered her chamber, when fhe exerted the11 remains cf ftrength, and fpoke to me as fol-Tj My dear,am now going the way of all fleth, hut God,«! everlafting God, wid be your comfort. When (became your’s I looked for all the happinefs con-nt with tiie (fate of human nature in this vale ofery ; and I muft ccnfefs my higheft wifliese been gratified, and your tendernefi has beenn more than I could expect You may havefauHs in my conduft, but I do affure you (and• this a time to difienble) they were altogetherluntary. My principal ftuty was to obtain the 'ur of that God before whom l am foon to ap-!r My obedience to the compnands of my Godbeen attended with many imperfections, but Ifor pardon and acceptance in the merits of myRedeemer. Here fhr. fainted looked wiih-y at me and fhed a tear ow r her dear children,were crying by her bed 'he attempted toik, but in vain. At la- , fixing her ey.-s towardsven, Ihe repeated thofe beau iful words, Intohands I commit my foul, for thou h >ft redeem-me, O thou God tf my falvation ” and thentu her eyes, never to be opened till the foundhe laft trumpet. I was funk for fome time in thea;eft diftrefs, looking on the d..ar departed re-ftins of my beloved fpotsfe, and endeavouring tonee, by psrfualipn, the cries of her orphan chil-n. At laft I recoiftdteci that L had ftiU a friend leftou, to whom 1 might, with a view ot confolation,open the in molt n cefl.es of my heart. 1 am af-■ your indifpoliuon may hinder you from vifitingme, and if fo, let me beg that you will in the m|time, favour me with a few lines. At prefentAvery fort of confolation will be acceptable,whatever comes from you will be doubly foknow not what to write ; excufe incoherence arimpropriety from one whom you have often honoo'ed with the appellation of friend.1 am, &c.SUPERSCRIPTIONS AND ADDRESSES FOR LETTERSTo the K u, ’s Moft Excellent Majefty—Sire, or A,it pleafe your JMajeJly.To his Grace the Duke of B.—My Lard Duke,May it plcnj: your Grace, or Tour Grace.To ro nofl Noble, the Marquis of H —My L\'Marquis, your Lonijhip.To the Right Hon the Earl of H.—My Lord, y\Lordjhip.To hi James H —Bart Hen Sir.lo tint Hon. Col. P. or the Hon. Adnvral WiHon. Sir.To M.jor or Capt. or Lieut, or Enfign P —Sir.To the Reverend Mr. J. PI.—Reverend Sir.To J. C. Efq.—Sir.To Mr J. h.—Sir.FINIS.