THEVillage CurateAhINTERESTING TALE jTO WHICH IS ADDED)The COUNTRY CLERGYMAN, A Pbm,£tjTNBURfeH:rriiit',d fat the BdofcselWit in Town Jthd G unitheVILLAGE CURATE.I \ 'f [IA TALE.“ The good, for^Virtues’ sake, abhor to sin.’’Creech.At an age w hen the human mind is most suscet:tibie of, and too often imbibes, a passion for vo ioptuous pleasure ; ere yet experience the sage pre.:cepts had impressed. Lord Belfont inheritedsplendid fortune. His levees were crouded witkite most fashionable part of the world; the voiiof flattery incessantly sang his praise, and bestow ied on him every virtue that could ennoble mar:His rank in life, and extensive fortune, introducehim into the first families in England; and ovei!lures of marriage were made to him by the parent iand guardians of the greatest beauties of the age'but lleliont, though not insensible to the charrrof beauty, was not yet become the vassal of thepower.’jd»e attention which he invariably receive*from the whole circle of his acquaintance, it rniglreasonably be supposed, was very acceptable to thinexperienced BeFFont: but, notwithstanding hiextreme vouth, and ignorance of men and manner ohe suspected the sincerity of these encomiums winedattery bestowed on him ; and pliant voice ol adulation had made lit tie-impression on his mind.3At once to prove tlie Integrity of his professedfriends, he carefully spread a report that, by oneimprilnent step, he had been precipitated fromprosperity’s flowery mount ‘into the barren valeof poverty. . Swift as wild-fire ran the evil tale;and those very doors which, as it were by magicopened at the approach of the rich and happy Bel-font, were now barred against the ruined spend¬thrift. _To give his distress an air of certainty, he madeseveral applications for assistance to his-once vow¬ed eternal friends, which were invariably treatedwith a mortifying contempt. To the fair rivals ofhis affections he addressed his tale of sorrow; here,too, neglected was his fate.—Ilelfont, dispossessedof the means to gratify their fondness for dress,amusement, and pleasure, was an object no longerworthy of their regard. Reflecting on these ev¬ents, he exclaimed—“ How wretched are thechildren of Fortune ! The poor man in his hourof distress finds a friend; but the rich, when heceases to be so, is disregarded by those whom hisformer bounty fed; and who have not charity e-nough to give to his misfortunes even the costlesbsigh of pity !”In the midst of his contemplations, a servantentered the room, and announced the arrival ofLord Bretnere; who, returning from a countryexcursion, had just heard of his friend’s misfortune,and hastened to relieve his necessities.—As he ap¬proached, Belfont, rising from his chair, ran tomeet him. “ It is some consolation,” said he,“ for the disappointments I have experienced, tofind the man whom I most valued not unworthyI -the esteem I bore him/’ Tbis, continued he“ more than recompences the ingratitude of thosmercenary wretches, who cannot recollect the fea ■tures of their friend when shaded by the veil O'affected distress.”The conclusion of Belfont’s address forciblstruck Lord Bremere, who repeated the won* affected distress !'—Adding, with much surprise—“ Are, then, your misfortunes bred by the tattlof the town.”“ No, my lord,” returned Bclfont; “ not fromthose contemptible beings, who eagerly busy themselves with every body's affairs, while they neglectitheir own, and who are only industrious in thepropagation of soandal; but from myself arose thetale of my distress. I invented it, merely to'prove the sincerity of those protestations of eter¬nal friendshi{>, which every day the siren, Flattery,whispered in my ear; and which, to speak thetruth, were become most intolerably disgustingAmong my female friends,” continued he, “ a lady,on whom I looked with partial eyes, and wrho, infact, had made some faint impressions on my heart,had the cruelty to smile at my distress : but I thankher for her contempt; it has broken asunder thosechains her beauty had forged to hold my heart inbondage.”“ And what use does your lordship mean tomake of this discovery ?” inquired Bremere.“ My resolutions, Charles,” returned Belfont,“ and your ideas, I will venture to say, are of anopposite nature. You, perhaps, imagine that Ishall return to the fashionable World, refute theI'.to$ ,; opinion it entertains of ni)' distress^ and feptr-ftehit for its ingratitude !”“ Wlmt else can yoti purpose asked Kredifere.■ “ Convinced of your lordsiiip's integrity,"1 re¬plied Belfont, “ I shall not hesitate to repose iniyour breast the secret of my resolves; The sud-■Jden death of my uncle,11 continued he, “ has givenme an ample fortune; the enjoyment of which, inthe vulgar opinion of mankind, ensures the con-[ stant possession of happiness. Alas! how mistaken, is such a notion ! It is true, my every wish is gra¬tified but one. Yob smile, Charles, and &ir<- Jyi anticipate that yet unaccomplished wish—Vmy friend, the society of a virtuoits i'emaie,IvVhose bosom is awake to the soft touches of hu¬manity, and who will not, totheoflfspringofdis;: . .refuse the tributary sigh of pity, nor from the '■dy sufferer withhold the sacred boon of charity ;what I anl now in search of. In the higher cb < d ^of life,” added he, “ my pursuit has proved a! .i: live; and-, assuming the appearance of the t;.-!. •' Cottager, I mean to seek it in humbler scene->!It was in vain that Lord Bremere endeavor .1i; to persuade his friend from his purpose. lh h •> remained inflexible to a!) his entreaties, and, !.; •»i ing drawn from his friend all assurance of rI. able secrecy, they parted : Bremere', to the ca ::■ /t of giddy passion ; Belfont, to prepare for hit; .: to those of rural felicityAfter a short repast, Belfont, leaving directioni with his steward for the management ot .be fkm:! ly in his absence, retired to rest; and, at an cn;iyI hour, while the sons of riot and dissipation v• : returning from their nocturnal revels, he left ;o ;I6splendid mansion, and in the humble garb of apeasant, with a few necessaries tied up in a hand¬kerchief, began his retreat from the metropolis.His name and title were only known in (frosvenor-snuare: at present he contented himself with theless dignified appellation of George Trueman ; andall traces of Lord Belfont were fora time vanished.Having continued his walk for near three hours,he found himself fatigued ; when an ipn, oppor¬tunely presenting itself to view, afforded him anOpportunity of resting his weary limbs, and satis-iifying the cravings of nature, which exercise hadrendered more than commonly acute. The ob¬sequious host soon furnished him with an excel¬lent breakfast, which having finished, he mountedthe Norwich stage, that had arrived during his re¬past, and, at the close of the clay, found himself inthat citv.Meanwhile, Bremere, mixing with the circle ofBelfont’s late acquaintance, heard with silent indig¬nation the illiberal and unjust reflections that werecast on the supposed misconduct of his friend.The impertinent inquiries with which his earswere assailed, from all who knew him in the habitsof friendship with Belfont, were almost too muchfor his temper to hear with composure; and hewas often on the point of violating the promise of-secrecy his friend had extorted from him, to vin¬dicate his character from the aspersions of slan¬der.Seated, one evening, in a box at Drury-lanetheatre^die was seen by Lady Caroline Blandish,from the opposite side of the house ; who, sanstnrmony, immediately came found to him. “ So,I,1■*- •   \I mv lord,” said she, entering the box, “ wimt isi become of your friend ]?elfont ? Hare you seer,| iiim lately ? How does lie bear bis misfortunes?j I am really sorrow for tbe unfortunate youth ?”My friend,” replied Bremere, “ is infinitelyKij obliged to your ladyship for the concern you takeSin his distress.”“ Why, you know, my lord,” returned LadyCaroline, “ one can’t help being concerned for theI distresses of those who were of one’s acquaintance.I profess,” continued she, “ tbe news of his ruinjj astonished me prodigously ; and I assure you, Ifelt myself extremely hurt at it ; for his lordshipfj, had paid me much attention, and I began to think1 I had made a conquest. It is, however,” addedj- she, “ very fortunate that the affair ended as iti| did; for you know, it would have been a shockingthing to have involved one’s self in such difficulties.”!“ True, madam,” replied Bremere ; who, by herladyship’s discourse, found she was the person towhom Belfont alluded, as having attracted hisparticular notice; “ but, after all, whatever dimi¬nution the fortune of Lord Belfont has received,be assured, it is still sufficient to support the wo¬man whom he shall honour with his hand, in astile of elegance that might sooth the most exten-l sive vanity!” And, without waiting her ladyship’sreply, bowed, and wished her good night, disgust-! ed with the affected concern she expressed for hisfriend’s imaginary distress, which' was but ill cal-cufated to concetti the spirit of malevolence thatrankled in her bosom.Lady Caroline concluded, what he had said wasonly to shelter his friend from the censure of the8world, and to encourage the opinion tSiat his affairswere not so desperate as they had been represented.With these ideas, she joined her company ; anBelfont and his misfortunes escaped her memory.And now, gentle reader, let us attend the stepof Uelfont; whom, hereafter, we shall distinguishby that of Trueman. Having spent a few daysat Norwich, he left that city, and continued his >excursion, till he found himself, for the first time,in the midst of his tenantry.Totally unknown to his tenants and his steward,he had an opportunity of informing himself of theoppression which the former bore, and the abuseswhich the latter committed It was near sun-setwhen he arrived at a pleasant village on the bordersof the sea, which contained, what is there called,an inn. Having deposited his bundle in the roomwhere he was to sleep, he repaired to the kitchen ;and, seating himself among the rustics assembledover their evening gulch of nog*, joined in theirdiscourse.The conversation chiefly turned on the transac¬tions of the village ; and, among a variety of anec¬dotes detailed of the inhabitants, the recent mis¬fortunes of their worthy curate most attracted thenotice of Trueman. The incident dwelt stronglyon his mind; and he determind to make himselfacquainted with the narrative of a man of whomhis parishioners spoke in such high terms of appro¬bation. He invited the landlord to partake of hisbeverage; who, being a communicative sort ofr• The earthen jugs, out of which the people in Norfolk drink,are called gotchcs ; and their strong beer is known by the nameof nog.I person, and one who had a considerable share ofI humanity interwoven in his composition, readily: complied with Trueman’s request, to relate thei misfortunes of the worthy pastor.“ 1 will tell you, sir,” said he, “ the story of Par->(son Benley. You must know, sir, that he is the•curate of our parish. The living, which is thegift of my Lord Belfont, belongs to a clergyman,who lives in the west; and, though it brings himin a good three hundred pounds a-year, he gives hiscurate only forty pounds out of it. So that, yousee, the master gets two hundred and sixty poundsifor doing nothing, as one may say, while the ser-i vant, who does every thing, is obliged to be con¬tended with scarcely a seventh part of that sum :tnupdi the good woman, his wife, broughtL liXl w w k€mlLllit, f VI.tilldetermine>onA V, *takingaim a large tanmy, ue tuuiuIjof salary. This made hima farm; which, by the death of one of his neigh¬bours, became vacant. But I don’t know howit was, though he worked as hard as any day-la¬bourer in the parish, and his wife was as industri¬ous as a bee, they couldn’t, as the saying is, bring;i.both ends together: and, to make short of thermatter, my lord’s steward seized on his stock,which not being sufficient to pay all arrears, thehard-hearted rascal clapt him into the county'gaol.”tVnd his family,” asked Trueman, “ what are‘.ibecome of them ?”“ His wife and four children,” returned theillandlord,” three fine boys from ten to thirteenhyears old, and a daughter grown up, arc in a cot-lit age hard by, that belongs to me. The overseer10of the parish, who is a crabbed sort of a fellow,and a friend of the steward, w;vs for sending themto the workhouse. But, £ No,' says I;. ‘ holdneighbour Bruin ! while my roof can give themshelter, and I can provide them with a meal toeke out the earnings of their own industry—And,you must know, sir,’ said he, with a significantnod, ‘ I am pretty warm—they shall never en¬dure the wants and hardships of a prison ! Forwhat,’ said I, ‘ is your workhouse but a dungeon ;where the poor eat little, and labour hard?"’—“ But,sir,v continued the landlord, i( not only I, but thewhole village, was against their going there; and ithe inhabitants all cheerfully spare a little toyyards |the family’s support: nay, even the labouringcottager, out of his hard earnings, throws in his“ And what,” inquired Trueman, “ is the a-mouut of the sum for which the unfortunate manis now confined r”“ The whole debt,” replied the landlord, “ Iam told, is about three hundred pounds: a sumby much too large for the inhabitants of our par¬ish to raise without injuring themselves; or, de¬pend upon it, he would soon be snatched from thegripe of the law.”Every particular which related to this worthyman, Trueman inquired with an earnestness thatdisplayed the philanthropic sentiments of his mind ;and intimated, not merely a wish, but a fixed de¬termination, to rescue the indigent sufferer fromthe horrors of a prison, and restore him to his dis¬consolate family. Impressed with this generoussentiment he retired to bed, meditating on them«ms by which he might effect his laudable de-11i'gns, so as to give the least offence possible tohe delicacy of suffering virtue, and conceal theland that loosed the chains of bondage, and gaveonce more to the drooping captive the possession>f liberty.After proposing to himself many plans, he atlength determined to walk the next day to a posttown, about three miles off, and enclose notes tothe amount of Mr Benley’s debt, in a letter tothat gentleman. This appealed to him the bestmethod he could devise, as it would leave no tracesthat might lead to a discovery from whom thi merited bounty came. Thus resolved, he yielded!to the soft embraces of sleep; and, in the morn¬ing, rose to execute his benevolent purpose,j . In his return, he saw a.female and a little hoy"The youth carried a basket, which seemed tooIheavy for his feeble strength to support. The fe-jlmale had in each hand a jug; and, having otit-!ii walked her companion, had seated herself on a: stile to wait his coming up. Trueman accosted!! the youth, and offered to assist him in carrying' his load ; a proposal which the youngster readily■ accepted, telling him, at the same time, that heI had been to a neighbouring farmer for cheese andI butter; and that his sister had got two jugs of| milk for his brothers’ breakfasts.—“ And what hI your name ?’’ said Trueman.—“ Benley, sir; amiif we live in yonder cottage," pointing to a smallr house.“ Charlotte,” said the youth, “ here is a gen-I tleman has kindly carried my basket for me ; and,J as you complain the jugs are too heavy for you,l I dare say he will help you too.”“ That I will, and esteem myself obliged so to1?said Trueman, placing the basket on t!ie■rnifind, and bowing to Miss Benley. “ You are, ;'; y !ciiid, sii ,” said Charlotte ; “ but I am ashana-i) that Henry should have given ypu so much: rouble; he is an idle boy, or he would not have J'bus intruded on your politeness."“ Call it not intrusion; the young gentleman Isked net my assistance, aqd my service is vqlun-• v li1. he blushing Charlotte accepted the assistancethe gallant stranger. Trueman viewed, withjoy bordering qn rapture, the personal accom- 1. Lunents of his fair companion. “And oh!”j lie, “shoidd she wear a pure mind, and unstain-is her lovely form, she were a treasure worth•i nrqude>t monarch’s Iqve !”: '•e lovely maid answered with indifference e-question of thp enamoured youth. The: ■ prospect of futurity had robbed Miss Bep«■’ at vivacity, which, in her happier days,: vsi. vont to possess.a r Benley'having informed his mother oft . t 'anger’s civility, the good woman walked towieket-gute, that formed an entrance to the. n, to welcome her daughter’s return; and,i -.mg Trueman for hjs politeness, invited Jiim. j’take of their morning’s refreshment.a to sorry," said the venerable matron, “ that.-cans, and my inclination to make you wel-are not in unison with each other, but thatI have to give, X give freely r-^There was.. ; ie”—' 1 have heard of your misfortunes, madam,"erupted Trueman ; and I sincerely sympathizein your suiferings. Bui do not yield to despair,, The hand which inflicts distress can also bestowhappiness; and, though the pitiless storm of; stern adversity to-day beats hard and heavy onI your defenceless roof, to-morrow prosperity’s cheerrful sun may raise your sinking hopes, and repairthe ravages of the ruthless blast.”Mrs Btnley and her daughter could not ayoidimaking their observations on the strangeness ofthe visit; while he congratulated himself cn thecofnpletjon of his wish for an introduction to thisamiable family.It was on a market day that Farmer Welfordwaited on the good old man. He found him in asmall roqm, pursuing his pious meditations. Thepight of any of his parishioners was a cordial tothe drooping spirits of Mr Benley. His griefs,i though pot forgotten, were suppressed while con¬versing with his friends; but, at the moment of: .eparation, they returned with increased poignancy,and it required the utmost eflfort of mind to sup-I'bort the painful—“ Adieu !”“ Eternal God !” exclaimed the weeping father,, ‘ must I pp jnore enjoy the sweets of liberty!How changed the scene ! Here, vyhen night her:i able mantle o’er the face pf heaven begins to'.npreod, nothing is heard but the dismal rattling ofjyhains ; doorg of piassy iron, grating on their hin-rires, appal the timid sopl; while horrid oaths, andWreadful imprecations, wound the listening ear.3 Welford ! my soul sickens at the scene; andiihilosophy scarce can shield my mind from therrrors of despair !” «At thi? moment the gaoler entered the room14with a letter for Mr Henley—“ The hand is un¬known to me,” said he. 44 It has a goodly out¬side,v’ said the gaoler ; “ pray Heaven it prove notlike the world, fair without, and foul within.'1“ Whv, truly, friend,11 returned Mr Henley,*c your satire upon the manners ot mankind is notunreasonable, ft is, I fear, the maxim of manyof the: present age, to conceal the depravity of theheart beneath the specious appearance of honesty.This, however,” continued he, breaking the seal,“ I 'think, bodes no harm; I .will therefore in¬form myself of its contents,11“ It is well,11 said he : “ goodness is still extant;and innocence enjoys the guardian care of Provi¬dence. The contents of this letter will best ex¬plain my meaning—“ To fhe Reverend John Henley, at the Cadiz- ofNorwich.*4 Reverend Sir,—The enclosed notes, which“ I find, on inquiry, will cover the whole of yourdebts, wait acceptance. They are the gift ot one44 on whom fortune has bestowed more than he“ can claim on the score of desert; and Who anxi-“ ously hopes, while it restores to you those most“ enviable blessings, liberty and domestic happi-“ ness, be has left no clue by which a discovery ofkS the donor may be effected.”Here the gaoler broke into a swearing fit of joy; ithe farmer could only express his pleasure with hislooks, while the grateful pastor threw himself onhis knees, and poured forth the grateful transportsof his soul to the Giver of all Goodness.1,5iVhilc the Lounty of the generous Truemanras thus employed in releasing the worthy Curatejran the horrors of a prison, he himself was notsj assiduous in soothing, by every act ol benevo-■V;e and hospitality, the anxiety ol the family atome.With the assistance of his landlord, he was be-oaie acquainted with every transaction that hadiccurred in the village. In one of his eveningivalks, he was roused from his meditations by theElder, exclamations of a female voice ; and, rais-« his eyes, beheld the fair object of his affectionsitteavouring to avoid the opportunities of a gen-lanah who was pursuing her.' “ Stay, lovely Charlotte !” said the stranger.i4 Why do you t!y me thus ?” ,jj ‘‘ Vvny, sir, are you so importunate ?”“ Because I wish to remove the cloud of sorrowjijhat hangs pn your brow. In short, because Iore you. Who could behold beauty such as your’s,Itnd live a stranger to afTection!11* .“Affection! view your recent conduct to myIjather; tlien say if affection Lore a leading featureiihere ?1“ On honourable terms I sought your hand,liich you in scorn refused. Had your father thentid on you his commands, ami forced you to beline, he had escaped my resentment.’1My choice was free, sir; and, perhaps it wasiv nature’s fault, I could not love you. Hut ex¬use ray abruptness, should we be seen thus dis¬coursing, the discovery would not add to my re-nitation.”“ This contempt, child, is very pretty ! but itIIf - V16 ishall not divert me from tasting the ripe beautiesof those matchless charms.” Then rudely snatcl-ing the struggling beauty to his loathed embrace,impressed on her lovely lips the guilty purpose ofhis passion. At that instant, rage and indignation Ifired the soul of Trueman ; who, darting through fthe hedge, seized the rude ravisher by the throat, |and hurled him to the ground. “ Detested mon- |ster ! I know thee well! Thou art the faithless |steward of the absused Belfont. Already has thy jfame reached thy master’s ears : nor think, vile Iingrate, that he will suffer thy villanies to escajst iwith impunity.” Then, taking the almost faint- |ing Charlotte by the hand,, he hastened from thisfallen Lucifer.The spirits of Charlotte hardly supported Iwfrom the presence of her base assailant, betore shesunk lifeless into the arms of her deliverer ; who,urged by fear, placed her on a bank, and ran forwater to a neighbouring rivulet, and besprinkledher features with the cooling drops. Soon she i/a>'closed her lovely eyes, and recovered.You tremble still, my Charlotte, and, by yourdisordered looks, seem to doubt your safety ?”“ O no ! where Trueman is, suspicion has njdwelling.”‘f Enchanting sweetness! Oh ! my lovely Char¬lotte, never till this hour of danger did I kn^rv (how dear an interest in my heart you held, Wouldmy sweet girl but kindly listen to my artless tale,—would she but give my ardent passion one approv¬ing smile—“ Alas !” interrupted Charlotte, “ I Have noSmiles to give. On any ether subject, I will hearyou; but, till again my father breathes the air of: freedom, till from the chains of bondage he is freed,I have foresworn all joy.”“ Till that blest period,’’ said Trueman, “ when1! fortune shall cease to prosecute thy venerable sire,i and give the captive to his weeping friends, my| passion in concealment's painful bosom shall dwellu J immured, if then thou wilt give my artless taleattention ! This only do I ask: grant me but this;; and hope shall nurture my love, and lull to restteach intrusive care.”i “ Then, by my hopes of bliss hereafter,’’ said.’.he maid, “ I vow, when that happy hour arrives,II will not chide thy fondness. But tell me, whatI means this sudden joy that through the villagereigns? How sweetly sound the men y bells; whileevery breeze from yon shouting throng wafts theli the breath of pleasure.”“And see,'1 said Trueman, “ where, to my Char¬lotte’s cottage, they bend their steps ! It is, me-thjnks, no vulgar cause that swells this loud ex--daim ’—But see ! your brother comes, the har-i binger of happiness !”“ Oh, Charlotte !” said Harry, “ our dear fatheri;s come home again. Farmer Welford broughtlithe news that he was on the road, and the wholesrillqge went to meet him. They took the horses(.from the chaise, and dragged him to our cottage.I&y mother cries for joy, and sent me to seek afterItyou. Make haste, my father longs to see you.—•'Lind do you, Mr Trueman, come too; my motherpas told him what a kind friend you have been ;|] will run back, and say you are coming.”“ Now, my Charlotte,” said Trueman, “ indulgeIBthis Hood of joy, nor check the soft emotions ofthe soul. These tears become thee : which, likethe fleeting shower that bathes the summer’s day,give fresh lustre to the charms of nature.'"“ Is that which I have heard derived from truth ;or is it but the dream of fancy ? My father releas¬ed from prison ! By whom ?”“ Why,” said Trueman, “ should you questionwhence the gracious bounty came ? It is sufficientthat he is returned. Think the measure of hebliss is incomplete, till in his paternal embrace hafolds thy lovely form. Hasten, then, to increase:and share his merited happiness.” Then, foldi’-^her Arm in his, he hurried towards her dwelling.':Mr Benley was seated at the door of the cbtj-tags, surrounded by ninny oi his parishioners, wheaiCharlotte rushed into her father’s arms, exclaim¬ing—“ My dear, dear father!” The enrapture]parent mingled the tears of fond affection witltthose of filial gratitude; and every countenancebeamed with smiles of joy. Nor was the welcomeof the worthy Trueman wanting in cordiality ; hue.when the lovely Charlotte related her rescue froirthe hated Sandford, the murmur of applause Mfrom every tongue, while the grateful father straiaed the gallant stranger to his heart by the endearing name of son.The return of the worthy pastor was celebrate!by the inhabitants of the parish as a sort of jubn’cfEvery one strove to excel his neighbour in acts«"courtesy. Stores of viands were conveyed frorrall parts of the village; and while, by the palebjl#of the moon, sprightly youth Jed up the merdance, cheerful age sat and quaffed the nut-brow UVale, talkeJ over the feats of former ehys, and inthought grew young again.Every transaction that had occurred since LordiLIfont’s arrival in the village, he had transmittedito his friend Bl'emere : and, on confirmation ofthe oppression which his steward had exercised,enclosed the discharge of that unfeeling wretch ;with an order to deliver his accounts to Mr Ben-iley, whom he appointed his successor. A letter,announcing t« this gentleman his appointment,,also accompanied the packet; which Bremere dulyilforwarded from London, in the manner his frienddiad directed. By this time Bremere had refutedthe opinion which had been entertained of the de-jrangement of his lordship’s finances. The wholewas declared to be a feint.The sensations of Sandford, on reading his lord-i ship’s letter, were such as are familiar only to theguilty. The perturbation of his mind brought onia violent fever, which soon terminated ins miser¬able existence.Far different were the feelings of Mr Benley.—How variegated is the life of man ! His mornIhof infancy rises immersed in clouds, and the lower-la: ing tempest carries ruin in its aspect. Anon, theafriendly breeze of fortune disperses the threaten-f'ing storm; prosperity’s golden sun sheds forth itscheering rays, enervates the chill blasts of his blackadversity, anddeckstheeveningof bis daysin smilesof joy.” And oft the ministers of fate reversethe pleaing scene!” said Truehian. ‘-You areI come very opportunely to share the pleasuref which our newly acquired fortune gives,” re¬turned the curate. And, after having informedTrueman of the contents of the letter, tolhim he had discovered the bounteous hrmd thatgave him liberty.“ I have compared this letter of my Lord Lei*font with the one I received when under confine- jment, and I find the characters of each exactly!corresponding. To his lordship I attribute thebenevolent act. To-morrow, we purpose leaving jthis humble dwelling, and once more taking pos-!session of onr former mansion ; wh?re, I hope, we jshall enjoy the pleasure of your company.”“ You do me infinite honour, sir; and I wiii|study to deserve your favour. But where is MissBenley, sir ? I came purposely to inquire how shefinds herself, after her last night's merriment.”“ I believe you will find her in the garden.She and her mother will keep you company foran hour or two, while I visit my friends in the vil¬lage.”Trueman walked to the bottom of the garden*and found his lovely Charlotte seated on a bovverof osiers, which she herself had reared. She. hada letter in her hand, which* as she perused, thetears of anguish fell from her sorrowing eyes.Trueman’s approach roused the maid ; she startedfrom her seat* hurried the letter into her pocket,and darted an angry look at the youth.“ Why, my lovely Charlotte! do you thusangrily fix on me those streaming eyes ?”“ Answer me faithfully,” said she ; “ art thou,what thou seemest ? or, beneath that mean attire,,but ill according with thy polished phrase and man¬ner, dost thou not hide—Ha ! my fears are true!!The blush of guilt has crimsoned o’er thy face jjaiu. that confused air, that sudden start, proclaiMlth:e false!”‘ Tell me,” said Trueman, recovering himself,I the grounds on which you have raised this unkindsuspicion of my honour.”‘ This will inform you, sir1; a friend of Miss’ley advises her to be on her guard. Truemahs ibt what he seems; but, beneath the appearancef rustic honesty, harbours designs destructive ofei peace and honour.“ Now, sir, what can you plead to this charge P”« Miss Benley, that I love you, 1 think, is stillbejond dispute. That you approved my passion,par owned a mutual flame, is equally on the sidepf icuth. To the charge here preferred againsttie, that I am not what I seetn, I plead guilty ;iut to the rest, with all my sold, I pronounce itbise falsehood.”‘ Less warmth, sir, will better serve the causetruth.1'Less warmth, madam, would confirm me theguity wretch your hard thoughts, and this vileITcnyl, have made me. But, tell me, if I can repel,iy truth indubitable, this unjust arraignment ofirny honour, what reward I may expect ?”1 ‘'Oh! clear but thyself of these gross suspi-iois ; appear but the ma,! my fond wishes havermed thee, and I would reject the crowmed mo-ar:h’s hand to share thy honest love !”“ Then fear not, and know that 1 am the hap-ilfelfont.”“ Lord Belfont!”—“ Yes, the rich, the happyekont, lives the vassal of your power. But telle, from what envious hand didst thou receiveis vile defamer of mv truth ?”on“ Last night, when dancing on the green, a!e-tter fell from your pocket. I took it up unobservedand perused its contents: from which I learned friayou were in disguise."’“ And the rest your fears supplied ?’’—u EverSO.” .-i,“ Then, truly, you had reason for s.uspicio<!—But come, let us disclose our mutual passion t*your parents. Their approbation gained, we tierwill name the happy day.”“ May I entreat a moment’s conversation, sir?“ Aye, my good sir, an hour’s, replied Mr Feniley.“ Thus it is, sir. Your daughter has beayyworth, and innocence. I sought, I gained her on»regard; and it is now our mutual wish to exchange our holy vows, and sign a contract of dei;nal love.”“ How say you, Charlotte? In this, doesMTrueman speak the wishes of your heart ?”“ He has my free consent, sir, to what he iovproposes.” t“ The request is somewhat sudden. It is^rueI have found you worthy, and your merit deservethe treasure which it seeks: but a tender regarfor the happiness of my child forbids me to givetoo precipate answer; and some little inquiry inecessary to—”“ True, it is a matter that requires the no0serious consideration; and the reluctanceyou feel, gives additional lustre to your charurteiAn accident has revealed me to the fair objeit cmy wishes. I threw' aside disguise, and conffSse(myself the happy Belfont.” ^I u Then take her, ami may she prove deservingt>f vour love.”The lovely maid smiled consent ; and Mr Ben-|ey hastened to the village, where'the joyful tid¬ings soon spread. The tenants flew with cheerfuli haste to pay their dufy to their illustrious land-Moi'd, and none refused the invitation of his lordship.The Country Clergyman.INear yonder copse, where once the garden smil’d,ti And, still, where many a garden flower grows wild.There, where a few torn shrubs the place disclose,The village preacher’s modest mansion rose.A man he was to all the country dear,iiAnd passing rich—with forty pounds a-year.JjRemote from towns, he ran his godly race ;!jNor e'er had changed, nor wish'd to change his place,lllnpractis’d he, to fawn or seek for power,i|By doctrines fashion’d to the varying hour :.Far other aims his heart had learn’d to prize,Olore skill’d to raise the wretched than to rise.His house was known to all the vagrant train :i He chid their wandTings, but reliev’d their pain.The long-remember’d beggar was his guest,i1 Whose beard descending swept his aged breast:The ruin'd spendthrift, now no longer proud,» Claim’d kindred there, and had his claims allow’d:t The broken soldier, kindly bid to stay.Sat by his fire, and talk’d the night away ;W ept o’er his wounds, or tales of sorrow done.Shoulder’d hiscrutch,andshew’d how fieldswerewon.24PleasMwithhisgiiests^hegoodman learn’dto gloAnd quite forgot their vices in their wo:Careless their merits or thelt faults to scan,His pity gave, efe charity began.Thus to relieve the wretched, was his pride;And ev’n his failings lean’d to virtue’s side :But, in his duty, prompt at ev’ry call,He watch’d and wept, he pray’d and felt for all.And, as a bird each fond endearment triesTo tempt its new-fledg’d offspring to the skies, jHe tried each artj feprov’d eftc'h dull delay,Allur’d to brighter worlds, and led the way.Beside the bed, where parting life was laid.And sorrow, guilt, and pain, by turns dismay’d;The reverend champion stood. At his control,Despair and anguish fled the struggling soul:Comfort came down the trembling wretch" to raisedAnd his last falt’ring accents whispered praise.At church, with meek and unaffected grace,H is looks adorn'd the venerable place ;Truth from his lips prevail’d with double sway,And fools, who came to scoff, remain’d to pray.The service past, around the pious man.With ready Zeal, each honest rustic fan :Ev’n children follow'd with endearing wile.And pluck’d his gown, to sharethe goodman’s smile !His ready smile a parent’s warmth express'd;Their welfare pleas'd him, and their cares distress’d:To them his heart, his love, his griefs, were giv’n ;But all his serious thoughts had rest in heav’n i-1-As some tall cliff, that lifts its awful form,Swells from the vale, and mid-way leaves the storm,Thoughround itsbreasttheroliingclouds are spread,Eternal sunshine settles on its head.f I NI