Believer ExaltedI NIMPUTED RIGHTEOUSNESS.Asermon,preached atA Sacramental Occafion,BY THE LATERev. Mr LBENEZER ERSKINE,Mimfter of the Gofpel at Stirung,Isaiah xlv. 14- *5’the Lord have I rigbte^Even to him Jhall mene incenfed againft himbe Lord Jhall all the feedand Jhall glory.Sorely Jhall one fay, Inoufnefs andjlrengtb ;come, and all that a)Jhall be ajhamed. In tof IJrael be jujltfed.EDINBURGH;Printed by 1. Morren, Eaft Campbell’s Clofe,Cowgate.M D C G Gsf*E R M O N»P.cacaed at Lasgo, Sacrament Sabbath-MornbJunb 14th, 1721,O NPsalm Ixxxix. 16. In tby name Jhatt they rjo ice all the day : And in thy rigbteoufm' Jhall they h. exalted.THE Pfalmift, in the beginning of tlPI aim, having run out at a great lengin the praife and commendation ot the GodIfrael, he comes, from the 15th verfe of t|Pl'alm, to declare the happinefs of his Ifrael,. of true believers, of whom Hrael accordingthe fleih were * type.Now God’s Ifrael are a happy people, up«feveral accounts. i/2, Becaufe they are prilleged to know the joyful found, in the beginniiof the 15th verfe : The gofpel has a joyful founa found of peace, a found of life, a found of :berty and falvation You are all privilegedhear this found, with your bodily ears; but tlgreat queftion is. If you do know it, underftaiit, and give faith’s entertainment to it. AlaIfaiah’e lamentation may but too juftly be colToe Benever exalted, kc.tinned, with refpeft to the greateft part of thehearers of the gofpel, Who bath believed our re¬port ? idly, God’s Ifrael are a happy people,becaufe they walk in the light of bis countenance,in the clofe of the 15th verfe : they are privi¬leged with the fpecial intimations of his love,which puts more gladnefs in their hearts, thanwhen corn, wine, and oil doth abound, idly.Whatever difcouragement they may meet withfrom the world, yet Hill they have ground ofrejoicing in their God. In thy name Jhall theyrejoice all the day, and Thanks be unto God, fayethe apoftle, wbo always caufetb us to triumph inCbrift. sjbly. Their happinefs is evident fromthis, that they are dignified and exalted aboveothers, by the immaculate robe of a .Surety’s .1 ighteoufnefs; as you fee in the words of mytext. In thy rigbteoufnefs, Jhall they be exalted.In tvhich words briefly we may notice, \fttThe believer’s promotion, he is exalted. In diefirft Adam we were debafedunto theloweft hell;tire crown having fallen from our heads : butin Chrift, the fecond Adam, we are again ex¬alted, yea exalted as high as heaven, for we fittogether with him in heavenly places, fays theapoftle. 1 his is an incredible paradox to ablind world, that the believer, who is fittingthis moment upon the drng-hill of this earth,fhould at the fame‘time be fitting in heaven inChrift his glorious head and reprefentative; andyet it is indifputably true, that we fit togetherwith bim in heavenly places. EpTi.ii 6. Yea, inhim, He rules the nations with a rod of iron, andtriumphs over, and treadeth upon all the powersof hell, idly We have the ground of the be-4 The 'MHsters exalted.lievera preferment and exaltation, it is in tlrigbteoufiteji. It is not in any righteoufnefshis own: No this he utterly difckims, reekoiing it but dung and lofs, filthy ragsv dog's mea:'but it is in thy righteoufnefs; that' is the rig!teoufnefs of God; as the apollle calls it, Roti. 17. Tbe rigbtcoiifncfs <-xbicb is of GodbyfaihPhil. iii. 9. The righteoufnefs. of God is varoully taken in fcripture. Sometimes for the iifinite reftitudc and equity of his nature, Pfa■fi. 7. The righteous Ix,rd lovetb rigb teoufneASometimes for his re&oral equity, or diitritntive juft ice, which he exercifeth in the govenment of the world, re warding, the good, anpunithing evil-doers, Pfal. xci. 2. RigbttoufnCjand .judgment are the habitation aj' tby tkrotuSometimes it is put for the veracity .and fait!ftilnefs in accompHlliing his word of promilior in executing his word of threatening, Pfaxxxvh 56. ‘ Thy foitbfulnefs reacheth unto chclouds, thy righteoufnefs is like the great mourjjtains.’ Sometimes it is put for the perfect righileoufnefs which Chrift the Son of God as oufurety and Mediator brpught in, by _the obedience to the law, and death'on the crofs, for titjuftification of guilty finners : And this, as I fait;is frequently called the righteoufnefs of. Godand in this f-mc I unde*r!tand it here in thitext. In tby rigbteoufnefs.Jhall they be exahed.The obfervation is much the lame with th«Words themf^lyes, namely, ‘That in or by th<rightepufnefs of Chrift, beli&vers are exalted^Or thus, “ Whatever honour or happinefs beltvere are exalted to, the righteoufnefs of Chrifljj"s the ground and foundation of itIt is .alJjin irr.pnted Rigbtcoujnejs. 5•> o\viiig tO'tlie complete obedi nee, and meruc-p rious death oi the cvev-blehed Surety.This the foundation, which God r.'th laidn in Zion, upon which all our happinefs in timec and through eternity is built. I have not timei' now to adduce p arallel texts of leripture forthe confirmation of this doarine, neither canI Hand upon a long profecution of it cofider-l j.)pr what great w’orfc' you hare before you throthe day: All I {hall do, {ball be only in the.J' firft place.I. To offer a few proppfitiens anent thisrighteoufnefs, that you may underhand both,the nature and n?ceffity of it.II. Give you a few of its properties, to dear^ its excellency. 'HI. Speak a little of the believer’s exaltation‘by virtue of this righteoufnefs.IV. Apply.For the Fir/i. To offer a few propofitions a-^nentthis righteoufnefs, for clearing its naturer$md neceffity. ijl, Tlien, you would know, that^God be ing made man a rational creature, ca*-L; pable of moral government, he gave him a law; fuited to his nature, by whidv he was to go-“ ’Vem himfelf in the duties he owed to Gori-his'^great Creator. ^This law was delievered toman:;in the form of a covenant, with a promifi of* ^life upon the condition of perfect obedience,* r Gen. ii. 17. Thus ftood-matters betwee'n GodVand man in a {late of ihnocency.■ ,! zdly. Adam, and all his poilervty in him, and® ;■ with him, having broken the covenant, are be?" ■' come liable to the nirfe, arid penalty of it; * fo-that our falvation is become abfolutely impof-<5 ^ bd Believer exalttafible, until iufiice be’ f;iiis£ed, and the honoctof the broken law be repaired; the law andjuftice of God are very peremptory, and ft andupon a full fatisfaclion and reparation, otherwifeheaven’s gate {hall be (but, and eternally barredagainft man and all his pofterity. The flamingfword of juftice turns every way, to keep usfrom accefe unto the paradife that is above.3<%, While man in thefe circumftances wasexpe-: "’" ’"b'l'ttg but to faU an eternal facri¬fle-unto’divine juftice, the eternal Son of God,in hi, infinite ioVe afid pity to perifliing flnnersfteps in as a Mediator and Sure^'; effenng £€>$only to-toke our nature, but to take our law-olace toftandinour room and ftead; where¬by the whole obligation of the law, both penaland - preceptive, did fall upon him: That is,he becomes liable and obliged both to mtfil thecommand/aud to endure the curfe of the cove¬nant, of works, which we had violated Andhere bv the way, it is-fit to adverufeyou, thatp was an aft of amazing grace in the LordJehovah, to admit a Surety in our room ; forhad he flood to the ngour. and feventy of thelaw he would- have demanded a perionalia-tlafaftion, without admitting of the ^tisfaftionof a furety : In which caie, Adam and all hispofterity had-fallen under the ftroke of aveng-in- iuftice, through eternity. But glory to God,in the hi-heft, who not only admitted of afurety,- but provided one, and laid help uponChrift, the eternal Son of God, beingin theTulnefs of time made of a wonian, and^made under the law, as our furety, he Anally,in our room ana —terms of the coyeomt of works ttlBt ,s ».terms or the covtn.ui.i. c , ,tvord, he obeved all the commands of the law,and endures the curfe of it, and thereby bnngsin a complete , law-righteoufnefs, wherebyguilty finners are justified before God: And' this is the righteoufnefs by winch we are exal-ted by his- aaive and obedience hemagnifies the law and makes it honourable,'andthe Lord declares bimlelf to be wellpleaf-aodworld; yet the elecl of G^l are never exaltedby virtue of tltis righteouinefs till in ft 'p,tower they be-brought to receive it by faith,-and fubmit to it for jollification before Goo.We difclaim that Antinomian error of an ac-tUil juftification, from eternity, or yet or aformal junification, bearing date from the deathof Chriit. We own indeed, with all pretc.tautfound (hi vnes, that it was the purpole of Godto juftify his eled from eternity, and that allthe cleft were reprelented.by Cnrht.in hi) ooe».diene© unto death: But that they ate aftuallyjuftified before ..onverfion, or before their ap¬plication by faith unto the bloody of JtiiSs is. impofiible; becaufe tho fentence ot the broke|ilaw hands always in force againil them, tikthey aftually believe in. the Son, of God; fovrhe that believes not, is, condemned alreadvAnd how can they be both juflified and con¬demned at the fame time ? Till then, they arechildren of wrath, even.us,others.8The Believer exdUecf. ,6rl-/v, This righteaufirefst)f-the Surety is con¬veyed: unto us by imputation, as is abundantlyplain from-many places of feripture, particular¬ly Rom. iv. 6, i r, 12, 23, 24. God reckonswhat the Surety did in our room unto us ; fothat His righteoufnefs becomes ns much ours forjufltfication before God. as thor we had obeyedtae law, and faiisfied juiliee in our own per-ion. Mowythis imputation of the Surety's righ-teoufrid^ rims principally upon thefe two orthree things, \J!, Upon the eternal tranfaflionbetween the Father and the Son, wherein, theSon of God was chofen and fuftaitted as theSurety of an ele<R world: then it was that liegave bond to the Father, to pay their debt, inthe red gold of his blood ; faying, Sacrifice andoffering tbou didfi nos defire ; Lo, I come, l de¬light to do thy •will. . 2<#y,'It is grounded uponthe afttial’ imputation of our fins unto him.'The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all- Thereis a bleffed exchange of place's between Chriltand his people; he takes on our fin and un-righteoulhefs> that we may be clothed with thewhite robe of his righteoafnefs, a Cor. v. 21.* He was made fin for us_who knew no fin,_thatwe might be made the righteoulhefs of God inhim.’ zdly. This imputation goes upon theground of the mydHeal union between Chrifland the believer, When the poor foul is de¬termined in a day of power to embrace thpLord Jefus in the arms of faith, Ghrift and hedo that very moment coalefce into one body.He becomes a branch of the noble vine; amember of that body whereof Ghrift is the glo’-rious head of eminence, influence and govern-in imputed Rigbtco'i^iefs. gwent. And being thus united to Chrift, thelong and white robe of the Mediator’s rigbte-oufnefs is tpread over him, whereby be is notonly freed, from conrlemnation, but for everfimained as righteous in the fight of God,i Cor. i. 30. ‘ But of him are ye in Chrift Jefus,who of God is made unto us wifdom, and ngh-teoufnefs, and fanftifkation, and redemption.The fecond general head was, To oder aI few properties of, this rightepufnefs, in whieii■believers are exalted, from whence its excel¬lency will appear.1/?, Then it is an every way perfe£l aridfpotlefs righteoufuels; And how can it be o~therwife, feeing it is the righteoufnefs of God *So perfect is it, that the holy- law is not onlyfulfilled, but magnified and made honourablethereby,Tfa. xliii. zi. So perfeft is this righte¬oufnefs, that the piercing eye of infinite jufticeI cannot find the leaf! flaw in it: Yea, jultice isfo fully fatisfied therewith, that God {peaks ofthe foul that is clothed therewith, as tho’' itwere .in a ftate of inpocence and perftS.ly freedfrom fin : 7 foou art all fair, r.iy love ; andtbefcis nofpot in thee. He bath not beheld Iniquity ihJacob, nor perverfenejs in Ifrael. Indeed, hebeholds many fpbts in the beliver, confideredin himfelf; but not a fpot is in him, ^cOnfideredas under the covert of this fpotlefs righteoufnefs. 'idly, It is a meritorious rigeteoufnefs. Theredemption of the foul is precious, and wouldhave ceafed for ever, unlefs it had been redeem¬ed by this righteoiifnefs : For filver, arid gold,and fuch corruptible things cbuld neVer do it.Lay heaven, and all the glories thereof, hi theIO Ybe Believer exalted.balance with this righteottlnefs, they would beall light as a feather compared with it Hea¬ven is c lied a purchased: inheritance, and. thisri glue out net's iathe price that bought it. Ihereis inch merit in it, that it expiates fins of thePl .kett hue, and redeems a whole eleft world,from wrath and ruin: 'Vea, fuch is the intrin-lie value of itv that had it been fo defi^neu, itwas- fudicient to have, redeemed the whole po-fteriiy of Adam, .yea, ten thoufand worlds ofangels, and men, upon a iuppofition of their ex¬igence, • and fail. O with what confidence thenmay: a poor foul venture its eternal falvationupon this bottom. r r .•%dly. It is an incomparable righteoulnels.: there is no righteouinefs, among the creaturesthat can be. compared with it. Compare it withour own right-.oufnefs by the law, and theapoille Paul will tell us, that he reckoned hispharilaical rightecufnefs before converfiotr, yea,his own obedience after converfion, _ but asdung, when laid in the balance with it. Phil,iii. I. Compare it with Adam’s nghteoufnefs ina (’cate of i innocence, or yet with the nghteouf-- nefs of fpotlefs ^ngels,,.they are but hke glow-worms, when compared with this bun. Iheone is but the righteoufnefs of a .creature, buthers is the righ.teoufnefs of God.4f/;7v, t is a foul beautifying and adorningrirhteoufnei's, Ifa. lxi 10. I vUlgreatly rejoicein the Lord, my foul pall be joyful in my Gad,vbo bath clothed me viib the garments ojjalva-don, and covered me with the robes oj ngbteouj-r(,rs . as a bridegroom decketb bimfe/j with orna-vints, and as a bride adornetb herfdf wmin imputed RighteO'iifnefs. IIjewels. The poor foul th^t was hlack by lyingamong the t ots, when dothed with this robe,'ihhies as the wings of a dove covered with hi-ver and her feathers with yellow gold.5tbly, It is an everkhUng righteoufneis, asthe prophet Daniel calls it, chap, ix 14. Inoeedthis righteoufnefs had no being, fave in the pur-pofe and promife of God, till Chritt aduallyappeared in our nature, and fatisfied the com¬mands of the law, and demands of juibn.;however, upon that very being that it had inthe purpofe and promife of God, it became et-feftual for the jhilificadon of all the old-teita-rnent faints. 1 his righteoufnefs then, I fay, 15an everlafting righteoufnefs, both as to the con¬trivance and duration of h. The contrivance orit bears date from the council of peace m theantient years of eternity : For the Surety wasfet up from everlafting- And as it is everlaftingin its root, fo alfo in its fruit-, for, upon this ngh-teoufnefs, the faints will ftand and be affoil’d atthe day of judgment; and, upon this bottom,they will have their Handing in heaven througheternity. The fpng of the redeemed for ever willbe, ‘ He loved us, and wafbed us with bis blood.6tbly, It is a foul.dignifying and exalting mgh-' teoufnefs. Solomon, Prov. xxv. 4* fpeaking oequity in the adminiftration of juftice, fays, thateven that king of righteoufnefs exalteth a nation.I am fure this holds true in the imputed righteoul-nefs of Chrift, as you fee in my text,/n^y ngbt-eoufnefs Jhall they be exalted. But this leads to theThird thing 'in the method, which was tofpeak of tne believer’s exaltation by virtue pi<12 The Believer exaltedthis righteoofnefs. And here I will very brieflyfhew i/.J, what evil, it exalts him abave, %dlyWhat happinefa ■-■-.nd dignity it exalts Kim to.T rfl^ What evil it exalts him above.i/A, it exalts hiin above the law as a covenant■ of w n;fe;‘ yea, above both the commanding andcend "mning. power-of that covenant. Ye arenot u der the law, /ays the apoftle,' but midergrtrce. Rom. vi. 14. And if they are not underit, it fbUaw« d>at they are exalted above it. In¬deed, they are not, and cannot'be abovt it as a'rule of duty: no creature can be difp -nfed fromthe oblig vtioa of yi lding obedience to tl>s lathsof the- great Creator; And the believer in a pe¬culiar maimer is bound to obey the law of aCreator, in the hand of a Mediator: But con-fidering the law as a covenant of works, de.•manding the debt of obedience as a conditionof li e, or threatning eternal wrath in cafe of- difobedience, the believer is indeed exalted a-bovc; it by the righteotifpefs 6f Chrift: nnd'xfthe law at any time attempt to bring the believ¬er i.r. bondage .to it,. he is to ftand faft in theliberty vvherevvuli Car id hath made him free.The. bond-woman Hagar, with her offspring oft-hrgal fears and terrors, are call out by faith in• the Lord Jefus Chrift, Gal. iv. 30. If a believerin Chrift .Uiall hear the thunderings and curfesof mount Kbel, or Sinai, he has no reafon to be■affrighted; for Cbrift by his righteoufnefs hathredeemed him from the curie of the law. Thouart not cotne to the mount that burned Kith fire ofblacinefi, and darknefs, ar.d tempijl; but thou artcome to mount Zion, and to Jefus the Mediatorin imputed Rlghteoufncfs. 13of the new Covehant, and to the blood of fpnnk-IibsTi -which fpeaketb better tbingt than that ofMel. The believer is dead to the law by the bo¬dy of Chrift, being married unto a better hvf-band, even to him that is raifed from the dead.atf/y. By this righteouTnefs the believer is ex¬alted above the world, Rev. xh. 1. The womanclothed-with the fun, has the moon under herjeet:which may not only point at the believer s m>tyto fear heavenward iri his affeaions, but aliohis privilege in Chrift to trample both upon thefrowns and flatteries of this lower world ^ac¬cording to that of the apoftle, ‘tbit is the vtfory-whereby vie overcame the -world, even our jaitb.adly, by this righteoufnefs;he is exalted abovethe power and malice of Satan. Indeed, as longas the believer is on this fide of Jordan, the de¬vil will be haraffinp; him Avith his fiery darts,and do his utmofi to make him go halting toheaven; by, virtue of this righteoufnefs, namely,the doing and dying of our ever-bleued Surety,the devil is both difaraied and deftroyed: thelead of the- old ferpent is bruifed; for, thro’death, he deftroyed him that had the power ofdeath, that is the devil. AM by faith in theblood and obedience of the Lord Jefus the be¬liever treads Satan under his teet 1 they over¬come him bv the blood of the Lamb.Atbiy, By'this rightcoufnefs the believer is ex--/ilted qbove death. Perhaps thou art in bondagethrough fear of death;' thy heavt'is like to faint.and fail thee, when thou lookeft to the iwellingsof this Jordan : But take a view of this nghte-.oufnefs, and thou {halt be exalted above thef4 *The Believer exalted.fears of it; altho’ thou be liable to the ftroke ofdeath, yet by this righteoufnefs thou art freedfrom the fling of it. What is the fling of death ?It is fin. Now Chrift has finifhed tranfgrefltonand made an end of fin, by bringing in everlaft-ing rLhteoufnefs. - And' therefore thou mayftroll that word like a fweet morfel under thytongue, Hof. xiii. i ‘I will ranfom them fromthe power of the grave; I will redeem themfrom death: O death, I will be thy plague; Ograve 1 will be thy deft ruction.’Kthly- By this righteoufnefs the believer isexalted above' ail accufations, from whateverairth they may come. Rom. viii. 33. there theapoftles gives a bold challenge, Wbo Jhatl lay a-ny tbinv to the charge of God's debt ? The chal-1 nge is univerfal in refpe& of all accufers; asif he had faid, Is there any in heaven, earth, orhell, that can accufe them ? It is umverfa m re-fpeft of all the accufed : for the whole elect otGod are comprehended, among whom thtrehave been as great finners, as ever breathed onGod’s earth. And it is univerfal in reipeft otall crimes. It is not faid, who fhall lay this, 01that, or the other crime to their charge. Kut,any thing ? And what can be more comprehen-five ? Now what is the ground of this boldchallenge ? ’Tis grounded on the righteoufnefsof Chrift : For, fays the apoftle, ‘It is God thatiuftifieth, who is he that conderoneth? it is Uhriltthat died, yea, ratlier that is riien again, &c.I come,JSecondly-, to fhew, What happmefsor dignity the believer is exalted to by vn cue ofthis righteoufnefs. And, in fo many words, 1only name thefe two or three particulars, Ui,in imputed Righteoufriefs.*5He is exalted by it unto a ftate of peace and^conciliation wUh God. Rom. V. t.tided by faith n»e have peace wtb Ged.^o*for ever lays afide every gi-udge m bis heart a-ea'mft the foul that is clothed therewith.E zdly, They are exalted by this nghteoufnefsunto ftate of fonftiip. Chnft was ^de un^r. the law, to redeem u, that were ^- we mhbt receive the adoption of font. Oal. iv. 4.Idh Unto a ftate of fellowftup and femiha-■ rity with God, and aecefs to him with holy con-fidence and boldnefs, Heb. iv. 14*. 16. Havingtherefore, brethren boldnefs to enter into theholieft bv the blood of Jefus, by a new andliving wav, which he had confecrated for usthrough the vial, that is to fay, his fiefo ; and'having an. high prieft over the Godlet us draw near with true hearts, in fulhahurance of faith, Heb. x. 19. Having fuch a■ great high prieft over the houfe of God, let usJanie with boldnefs ta a throne of grace. Thebeliever may come under the covert of jhisy righteoufnefs, with as great freedom unto God,as his Father in Chrift, as ever Adam couldhave done in a ftate of innocence.Athly, At laft thou (halt be exalted to a ftateof endlefs glory. For heaven (as 1 was hintingbefore) is the purchaie of the^obedicnce mdeath of Chrift; and faith ^ ™teoufnefs and fatisfaftion is tbe; path of life, bywhich we enter into thefeand that fulnefs of joy which is at God s right-hand for ever-more. . ,The Fourth thing was the application oi tUIhe Believer exalted.do&rine. And my firft ufe fliall be of infor¬mation, in thefe few particulars.i/?, Is it fo, that in a Surety’s righteoufnefs,believers are exalted: then fee hence, thatwhatever accourjt the world may make of themas the droi’s and ofi-fcouring of the earth, yetthey are dignified perfons in God’s reckoning :* Ever fince thou waft precious in my fight, thouhaft been honourable.’idly. See' hence, that the believer has noground of boafting. Why ? Becaufe it is not inhis own, but in Chrift’s righteoul'nefs, that heis exalted: Boajlhig is excluded fays the apoftle,by wbat law? of works ? Nay, but by the law offaith: Rom. in. 27. If it were by our own do¬ings or obedience that we are exalted, we havenothing whereof to glory in ourfelves. Thereare three queftions that the apoftle afks, whichmay filence all flefti, and put all boafters to aneternal blulh, 1 Cor. iv. 7 ‘ Who maketh theeto differ ? What haft thou that thpu didft notreceive? Why doft thou glory as if thou had notreceived it ?’ Let believers themfelves pofetheir fouls with thofe or the like inquires, whenpride begins to rife in their breads.v/A, See hence what obligation we lie underto the Lord Jefus : Who, altho’ he was the greatlaw-giver, yet was content to be made underthe law: though he was the Lord of life, yetHumbled* himiclf unto the death, to bring inthat righteoulheis by which we are exalted.He was content to*bc numbered among the tranf-grefibrs,,that we might ‘be counted among therighteous : He was content to become fin, thatwe might be made the righteoufnefs of God;hi imputed Rig hteoiifnefs. 17coiiteht to become a^nirfe for us, tbat^tbe blef-fing of Abraham might reft upon us, O admirethis love, which paffeth knowledge.Atkly, See hence a noble antidote againft afpirit of bondage unto fear. What is it'that-thou fearcft, O believer ? Indeed, if thou fin,thou may fc^; the rod of a father; for he willvifit thy tranfgrefiioft with a rod, and tl.ine ini¬quity with ftripes : but art thou afraid 6f thevindictive wrath? there is no ground for thisLuke i. 74. He has delivered us'out of thehands of our enemies, that we might ferve himwithout fear: that is, without all fervilc 0?flavifli fear of wrath. Art thou afraid of thetempers of Mount Sinai: there is no ground .for that, for the florm broke upon the head of. the Surety ; and therefore thou ma\ eft fmg andfay, as I fa. xii. j. Thou'ivq/t cngry with me, thine ,anger is turned away. Ai t thon afraid; left thoube refufed acceis unto the prefence-chamber ?Improve this rightepufnefs by faith, and thouftialt fee that the way Co the holy of holes isopened, and get the banner of love difplayed o-verthee. Whenever the poor believer takes therighteoufnefs of the Surety in the hand of faith,and holds it up unto God as the ranfom of hisown finding, he is fo well pleafed with it, thathis frowns are turned into fmiles. In a word,you lhall never get ride of a fpivit of bondage,till you learn by faith to improve this law bidingrighteoufnefs; and then indeed legal fears andterrors do evanifh like the darknefs of the njght,before the rifirig of the funUfe fecond of reproof, unto all thofe who arefeekicg to exalt themftives by rightecufnefs 0/z8 Tbe uJUUJ.their own, like the Jews, Rom. x. 3. ‘ Who wentabout to eftablifti their own righteoufnefs ofwould not fubmit to the righteoufnefs of God.’jThere are feme of the hearers of the gofpel,who exalt themfelves in a native righteoufnefs:they are not fo bad as others; they are freeofgrofs out-breakings, being no common drunk¬ards, fwearers,.or fabbath-breakers, and there-,fore conclude that all is right with them : but,firs, the Piiarifee-coulii. make .theis brag, andPaul before converfion could lay that touchingthe law he was blamelefs; and yet, when God'opened his eyes, he found himfelf lying underthe arrelt of jultice.: For, ivben tbc commaudmcntCfflie jhi reeved: and be died. Others ar ex¬alting themfelves in a moral-kind- of righteouf¬nefs : they not only ceafe V- do e vil,but do many'things that are materially good: 1 hey are fober,temperate, juft, in their dealings, libral to thepoor, good peaceable,- neighbours.; they love e-very body, an.f every body loves them; theykeep the commandments as well as they can;and this is the ground they are, Handing upon.Bul l may fay. to you, as.Ghriil faid to the youngman, who told him. All tbefe things have 1 keptfrom my youth, up One tbitig tbouyet lackejl. Otv hat is that? fay you, I anfwer, it is to bebrought off from that rotten bottom of a cove¬nant "of works that yt are ftanding upon. Yeyvant to fee that ye are fpiritually dead in trei-pa'iies and fins, and that ye a»e legally dead,condemned already, and the wrath of God a-bideth on you. Ye want to fee, that all yourown righteouftiefs is a? filthy rags? and to be made.In imputed Rigbteoufnefs, <9lo % with the church. Surely in tic/ righteoufnefs atiidJlrengtb. Others wil Sther than bare morality: they will abound m theduties of religion, read, hear, pray, communi¬cate, run from fermon to fermon from facra-ment to facrament, and upon thefe things theyreft; all thefe things are good in their proper- place, hut if you build your hope of acceptancehere, you are full upon a covenant of worksbottom, feeking righteoufnefs, a^ it were by theworks bf the law; and while you do fo, youdobut feek the living among the dead. All youworks are but dead works, till you be m Chrift,and they will but ftand as cyphers m Oodsreckoning, till you be brought to fubmit to thw.rigliteeulnefs, %-ahich alone gunty fmners canbe8 exalted. CjScrT rel> upon a mixt ^d ofrighteoufnefs: they will freely own that their du¬ties and performances will never exalt them intofavour and acceptance with pod; but, O, .la/-,they, it is Chrift and our duties Chnlt and ou.prayers, he and our tears and repentancej thatmult do it. But believe it. Sirs, Chrift and theidol of felt will never cement. 1 hefe old rottenrags will never piece in with the white andnewrobe of the righteoufnefs of the Son of God,and if you adventure to mingle them together,thrift [hall profit you nothing. Gal. v. 2. 3. 4 p-thers again, they will pretend to renounce *11their works and duties, and own with thenmouths that it is by faith in Chrift only thatthey hope to be accepted; but tno they ownthis with their mouth, yet ftiU their beanscleave faft unto the covenant of wons ; theyl y; ere never thro’ the lew dead ts the lav.2,0 T.he Believer exalted..And whan nothing elfe will do, they will^mahetheir own a£t of believing the righteoufncfs onwhich they lean for acceptance: which isiHU afeeking righteoufnefs in themfelves-: whereas,if ever we be juftified before Cod, we muft have,it in the Lord Jefus, faying, hybhn we will' bejuftifed, and in him alone we wilt glory. Fart acarries the. foul quite out of Ufel£> yea, faith re¬nounces its own a£t in the point of juftification.All thefe, and many other rooms ?.nd lying re¬fuges hath the devil and our hearts devifed, tolend us off from Chrift : But, O firs, b.fieve it,thefe are but imaginary fanduarys, and the hail'\Vill fwecp tlrern away. Nothing but the doingand dying of the Surety, apprehended by faith,will ever exalt you into favour and fricpdlhipwith God ; • or acquit you fron^ the curfe andcondemnation of the broken law ; and unlefs yebetake yourfelves to the herns of this blefledaltar, to this refuge of God’s appointing, you areundone; and you may read your doom, Ifa. 1. 11.‘ Behold all ye that kindle a fire ;. that contpafsyourfelves about with fparks: walk in the lightof your fire, and in the fparjes that ye have km-~died. This lhall ye have of mine hand, ye llmlihe down in farrow,’Ufe third, of ‘Trial. Is it fo, that inChrift’srighteoufnefs we are exalted ? O then, firs, tryif you be really exalted by this righteoufnefs.There is the mof*e need to try this now, .thatyou are to approach the table of the Ljord; tin*,righteonfnefs is the wedding-garment withoutwhich ye cannot be welcome gueits. And, if youadventure to maddle with the iyojbols of GhriiVsin imputed Rigbttoufnefs. 3,1body and blood without it, you may expect thatthe mailer of the feafl: w ill fay to you, Friend,bow camcfl thou bitber wanting the wedding-gar^mant ? For your trial, I offer thefe two or threethings, i/?, hail thou ieen thyfelf condemned bythe law or covenant of works? every man by na¬ture is condemned already, while ont of Chrift.Now, the ordinary wray that God takes of bring,ing an ele& foul into Chrift, and under the co¬vering of his righteoufnefs, is by difeoveringunto him the fentence of condemnation that heis under, by virtue of the broken law; and.thuspaves the way toward his acceptance of Ghriftas the Lord our righteoufnefs. For thus it isthat the lawr is our fchool-mafter to'lead us toChrift, that we may be juftified by faith. TheLord leads the finner to mount Zion by the foot- of Sinai. The Spirit’s way is firft to convinceof fin, and then of righteoufnefs. actfy. Has theLord difeovered the Surety and his righteouf¬nefs to thee ? And has thy foul found rgft here?Perhaps the law and its curfes, juftice and wrath• were purfuing thee ; and thou could not find ahole wherein to hide thy head, all refuges fail’d:At length the Lord drew by the vail, and difeo¬vered his righteoufnefs as a fufficient fhelter,faying Turn into the flrong bold tbou prifoner ofhope.; and hither thou fled, as into a city of re¬fuge, faying, This is my rejl here will I dwell.Readily, when it comes to this, there is a littleheaven of ferenity and joy enters into the foul;fo that, if it were poffible, it would make heavenand earth to ring with hallelujahs of praife unto•God for his unfpeakable gift. D«>lt thou notBeliever exalted.^no\% O believer, fomething of this, to thyfweet experience ? Tliie fays that in his righte •oufhefs thou art exalted, idly. When an arrowof conviction is at any time {hot by the hand ofGod into thy confcience, whereby thy peace andquiet is < lifturbed, whither dolt thou run for eafeand relief? The man that is married to thelaw, he vuns into the law for relief and eafe; thelaw is; the thing that heals him; his prayers, histears, his reformation, is that which flops themouth of his confeience: but as for the believer,he cam never reft on this fide of the blood offprinlkling; he gets his healing only from underthe \vings of the Sun of righteoufnefs. No otherhalm will give him eafe, but the balm of Gilead;and no other hand can apply it but the phyficiamthere. Atbly, If you be exalted by imputed right-,* .wfV von will be the real Undents of gofpel-:In imputed Rigbteoufnefs. 23yourfelves then by this, whether you be exaltedby this righteoulnefs. Are you delivered fromthe reigning power of iini' At leaft, is fo farbroken, that it is become your burden, underwhich you may groan, faying with the apoftle.Wretched man that I am, who Jball deliver mefrom the body of this death ?Ufe fourth, (hall be of Ccnfolation and encou¬ragement to believers, who are exalted in thisrighteoufnefs. By virtue of it, O believer, thoucan {land in need of- Whatever grace or mercythou wanteft, thou {hall have it, if thou do butimprove this law-biding righteoufnefs. W anteftthou pardoning grace, to take away the guilt offin ? That is one of the gifts of God, thro’ therighteoufnefs of Ghrift apprehended by faith :: For be isfetforth to be a propitiation throfai tb inbisblood. tojhew forth bisri-gb.teoufnefsfor therc~mij/ion of fins. Wanteft thou to have thy peacewith God confirmed? Improve this righteouf¬nefs by faith b or, being juftified by faith, wehavepeace with God thro’ the Lord Jefus Cnrift.Wanteft thou accefs unto the holiefl? by faith inthe blood of Jefus have we accefs with boldnefs.Wanteft thou medicinal grace for healing of fouVpleagues ; Improve this righteoufnefs-by faith:For by his ftripes we are|healed. Out of the fideiif our gofpel-altar comes forth living water, thatbealetb the corrupt and dead fea of indwellingcorruption, Ezek. xlvii. at the beginning. Thisis the tree of life, whofe leaves are for the heal¬ing of the nations. Wanteft thou a ftiadow orcovering, to {helter thy weary foul from thefcorching heat of divine anger, or of temptation24 'H-’c? Believer exalted, &c.from Satan, or tribulation from the world ? im¬prove this righteoirfnefs,and fit down under theihadow of it. It is as the jbadov? of a great rockin a weary land. Wanted thou courage to lookthe law. or juftice of God in the face? Here isa fund for it; under this covering you may lookout with confidence and fay, Who can lay anything to my charge ? Wanted thou to have thenew covenant confirmed to thy foul? improvethis righteoufnefs by faith: for Chvift, by hisobedience and death, confirmed the covenant withmany. His blood is the blood of the new tef-tament, and when the foul by faith takes hold ofit, the covenant of grace is that moment con¬firmed unto it for ever.In a wordj by virtue of this righteoufnefs,.thou mayeft come-to a communion table, and tothrone of grace, and afkwhat thou wilt, ourheavenly Father can refhfe nothing to the youn¬ger brethren, who come to him in their elderBrother’s garment. By virtue of this righteouf¬nefs thou mayeft lav claim to every thing, andto all the bleffings of heaven and eternity ; thou ;didft indeed forfeit thy right in the firft Adam,biit the forfeiture is recovered, and the rightreftored to thee, upon a better ground, namelyupon the obedience and death of the fecond ■Adam; and thou comeft in upon his right. May :n»t all this then revive thy drooping fpint?And make the take up that fong in the text. J" In thy name will I rejoice all the day; ana ;in thy righteaufnefs will I be exalted.”F I.N I S.