THETtROYAL DREAM BOOK;CONTAININGTHE INTERPRETATIONorEVERY KIND OF DREAM.GLASGOW:; K ■Printed for thk BookheuuERs.J-LVX ^ rTBTrr^IBR4k'-'OF SCOiLM^THEROYAL DREAM BOOK. :o: ABUSE. To dream you are insulted, is a sign thatyou ■will have a dispute with some one.ACQUAINTANCE. To dream you quarrel or fightwith an acquaintance, it is an uplucky omen; it fore¬bodes a division among your own family, much to theinjury and prejudice of the dreamer—if you are in love,your mistress will prove unfaithful, and marry someother man that she has told you she most hates,—ifyou are in business, some heavy loss will befell you;you will disagree with some of your best friends on themost trivial matters, which will end in an open rupture,-*-if you are a farmer, expect a bad crop, the murrainamongst your cattle; that your pigs and poultry willfeil and not fetch good prices,—if you have a lawsuit,depend that your attorney will neglect you, that yourWitnesses will be tardy and backward, and that finallyyou will lose your cause. Do not for some time under¬take a journey by land, or a voyage by sea; enter forthe present into no new undertaking, for you will beansuccessful; quit, if you can, your present place ofresidence; and, above all, avoid lending money, for youWill surely lose it together with the friendship of those* to whom you lend it. If you dream that you are with,an acquaintance at some place of public amusement,you may expect soon to be called from home on business<5f importance.3!ADULTERY. To dream of the committing of thissin, forebodes great troubles and misfortunes,—if youare in love, you will certainly fail in marrying the objectof your wishes,—if you have a lawsuit, it will certainlygo against you, by the treachery of those who pretendi to be your friends,—if you are in business, some heavyloss will happen to you. Such a dream announces thati you are in great danger of losing your liberty,—and ifj you are about to undertake a voyage to sea, omit it fori tiie present, for you will never reach the destined port.To dream you are tempted to commit this crime, andthat you resist it, it is a happy omen,—every thing willI flourish with you,—be sure it is, a good time to begin! trade after such a dream,—if you have a lawsuit, alli! will go on in your favour, with credit to yourself, andI confusion to your opponents,—if you are about to under¬take a long journey, it will be pleasant and successful toyour object,—if you are going to sea, you will have anagreeable voyage, beautiful weather, and a quick arrivalat the port of destination—if you are in love, do notdesist in pressing the object of your wishes, for they willbe gratified.ADVERSARY. A speedy dispatch of business.AGUE. Shows inclination to strong drink.AIR. To dream of the atmosphere, has a variety ofinterpretations, and depends entirely on the differenti. appearances it has. If you dream the sky is clear, of afine blue, calm and serene, then it is a good omen; youwill be successful in your enterprises: if you are solicit¬ing anyplace of preferment, you will surely obtain it,—if you are in love, you will surely marry the object ofyour affections,—have you a lawsuit ? you will gain it,—are you in trade! it will flourish and be profitable,—are you a farmer? good crops will attend you, your■ cattle will increase, your pigs and poultry will be abun¬dant, your commodities will fetch a good price at themarket,—are you married ? you will have many chil¬dren, and they will be dutiful and do well,—are youabout to undertake a journey? it will answer your ut¬most expectations,—are you going to sea? you will havepleasant and prosperous voyage,—are you in debt ?you will speedily l>e enabled to extricate yourself fromit,—are you in prison ? you will shortly be set at liberty.4To dream that it is full of thick, dark, ami heavy clouds,is an unfavourable token,—you will fall sick, and per¬haps die,—disappointments will attend your business.ALTAR. To dream that you are at the altar, be¬tokens joy and gladness.AXt’HOR. To dream that you see one, signifiesgreat assurance and certain hope; if you are in love, itwarns you to be assiduous to obtain the object of yourwishes, otherwise your passion may not meet with Isuccess.■APPAREL. Nothing more demonstrates the eventsthat are about to happen you, than dreaming of wearingapparel; but almost every colour has a different inter¬pretation, and much depends on its appearing newor old, its fitting you, or being too big or too little. Weshall here explain them according to their different sig¬nifications. To dream you are dressed in white, is a suretoken of success in the first object you undertake, andthat you will be successful in love, and that your sweet- fiheart is of a good temper and amiable disposition. Todream you are dressed in green, denotes that you areabout to undertake a journey to your advantage, andthat your sweetheart prefers you to all other lovers.To dream you are dressed in black, is an unlucky omen ; jsome quarrel is about to hhppeh between you and afriend or relation; sickness is about to attend you andyour family; death will deprive you of a near friend orrelation; lawsuits will perplex and harass you,—if you Iundertake a journey, it will be unsuccessful, and contri¬bute much to injure your health and fortune,—if youare in love, it denotes that your sweetheart is Very un¬happy, and that sickness will attend her,—if you are afarmer, you will l>e cheated by some knave, and yourcrops will turn out indifferent; the murrain will attackyour cattle, and some dreadful accident will happen bytlfe overturn of one of your waggons;—if you are inbusiness, some one will arrest you, and you will havegreat difficulty in settling the matter. To dream youare dressed in blue, denotes happiness; you will shortlyUs invited to some banquet or merry making, when youwill make some friends and be very happy, if you onlyavoid quarrelling, which some enemy to your welfare willemioavov r to excite you to do,—your sweetheart is by5tbifi colour denoted to be very faithful to you, and wji}make you very happy and comfortable; you will havemany children, chiefly boys, who will turn out honestand good,—if you are in trade, you will prosper. If youdream you are dressed in scarlet, you are. thereby warnedof some very heavy calamity and a severe fit of illnessjp-your sweetheart is by it announced.to you to be of aturbulent disposition, much inclined to dispute abouttrifles, and liable to make you very unhappy,—yourchildren will be short-lived, and of very unhappy tempers,much inclined to be very sickly,—it surely denotes aquiurel and loss of friends. To dream you are dressed inyellow, is rather lucky than otherwise, your sweetheartby it appears to be very jealous of you, and great painswill be requisite to prevent you separating—if you aremarried, keep a good look out, for some one is about toalienate the affections of your partner—in trade it pro-cnses prospenty; but some one will cheat you of a triflenot of much consequence—if you are a farmer, you willhave an abundant crop—if you undertake a voyage bysea, you will be greatly the gainer by it; and if you ex¬pect any place of preferment, after much trouble youwill attain it. To dream you are dressed in crimson,denotes that the dreamer will live to a good old age,and will be neither fortunate nor unfortunate throughlife: you are about to experience some very pleasantnews from a distant quarter, and from those you thoughtdead. Your sweetheart will be obliged to leave you, butwill continue faithful to you—if you are in trade, youwill experience some loss by a person that you had greatconfidence in, but you will, at nearly the same time, geta job that will amply make you amends—it denotes asmall dispute between a landlord and his tenant, whichwill be settled amicably to the advantage of the latter.To dream you are dressed in a variety of colours, de¬notes a variety of fortunes are about to attend you; oldfriends will desert you, new ones will supply their place—if you are in love, a quarrel will take place betweenyou and your sweetheart, which will, after much un¬easiness to both parties, be adjusted by friends—becautious in what you do for some time, for many trapswill be laid to ensnare you, but on no account trustyourself on the water; relations will shortly die, and if6Jura have any children, sickness will attend them—ifJou are sick at the time of the dream, it denote* aappy and speedy recovery. To dreamy on arefashiom-ably dressed, and in good company, is very good for the4 dreamer; he will rise considerably above his presentcondition—your sweetheart will prefer you above othersand be very good tempered; whatever you undertaloswill have a prosperous issue, and some unexpected newsof an agreeable nature will reach you—expect to see aM long absent friend in good circumstances; but avoid; having a dispute with anyone, for it will go against yoaand do harm, particularly if it be with your sweetheartTo dream you are dressed shabbily, that your clothes<5 are ragged and torn, is a bad omen.I ASSES. To dream you are riding on an ass, is Usesforerunner of some foolish quarrel in which you will betmuch in the wrong, and condemned by your friends—; if you are in love, it denotes that some misunderstand¬ing will happen between you and your sweetheart, ia| which you will be much in fault—if you are in business,1' it foretells that you will make some foolish bargain.« To dream you are driving an ass, denotes that you will| fill into some trouble, of which you will get the better,J and that you will be relieved from present embarrass-j ments,—if you are in love, it denotes that some quarrel| will take place betwixt your sweetheart and yourself,which will soon be made up again to your advantage.To dream an ass runs after you, denotes that someaiander will be raised against you by some foolish per¬son, who will become themselves the victims of thescandal raised against you.BACON. Death, disappointment, &c.BAGPIPES. Contention, with trouble and loss.BARKING OF DOGS. Destruction and insult.BATHE. Means joy, if in clear water; if dirty> water, disappointment.BEANS. Signify trouble and dissension.I BEARDS. To a maid, marriage; to others, unfor¬tunate.BEASTS. Wild—denote enemies.BEES. Success; also bad reports.BEGGARS. Stealing by—adversity.BELLS. Good to lovers; reverse to others.7BIRDS. To dream you hear them singing is a siguof joy; to see them fly, denotes you will soon go on along journey, which will be pleasant and prosperous.To dream you catch birds signifies good fortune; ifthey are handsome birds, the success will be thegreater. To dream you find a bird’s nest empty fore¬tells disappointment, losses, &c.; if birds of prey, suchas eagles, vultures, hawks, &c., seem tame, and fond ofyou, you will meet with some unexpected good fortune;nut wounds or hurts from such birds, forewarns you ofpowerful enemies. •BIRDS’ NESTS. To find one is a good sign; if noeggs, the reverse.BLEEDING. Denotes loss of goods.BLOWING A FIRE. The rich, servitude; poor,profit.BOAR. To the lover, an angry wife.BOAT. On clear water, means joy.BOOTS. Sweetheart to the single, and friends to themarried.BREAD. To dream of loaves denotes success in life.To dream of eating good bread denotes friends.BRIARS OR THORNS. Grief and care.BRIDGE. Generally prosperous.CAGE. Be on your guard against temptation.CANDLE. Extinguished—sickness, poverty, &c.;lighted—recovery, health.CAKES. Joy and profit.CARDS. Playing at—good fortune to lovers.CATS. To dream of cats denotes trouble and vex¬ation; to a lover, that your sweetheart is treacherous;a cat usually means an enemy.CARROTS. Profit and strength in lawsuits.CHAINS. Misfortune in marriage.CHEESE. To eat—profit and gain.CHILDREN. To dream of children, and have none,denotes care.CHURCH. To dream that you are at church, andpraying to God devoutly, signifies joy and comfort. Todream that you talk or sing idly at church, signifiesenvy and sin, and the dreamer should alter his way oflife.CLOCK. Is lucky; also speedy marriage.COACH. To (Ireabin of.riding.in a coach, dtir(otesidlenefes, pride; and the dreamer will die a beggar.COEN. Profit and riches; small quantity, famine.COWS. Signifies wealth arid plenty.CRUTCHES. Sickness arid misery.DANCING. Td dream you are dancing at a ball,wake, or entertainment, foretells that you will shortlyreceive some joyful news from an absent friend, andthat you are about to inherit some unexpected legacy;it foretells success and happiness in love; that yoursweetheart is kind and true, and will make you veryhappy in marriage; to the sailor, it denotes a pleasantand Successful voyage; iricrease of children to marriedpersons, and of business to those in trade.DEATH. To dream you see this grim-looking bundleof bories, denotes happiness and long life; and you willbe either speedily married yourself, or else assist at awedding. To dream that you are dead, also denotes aspeedy marriage, and that you will be successful in allyour undertakings; to those that are married, it fore¬tells young children, and that they will be dutiful, andgive you great comfort. To dream you see anotherperson dead, denotes ill usage from friends; if you arein love, your sweetheart will prove false; if you are afarmer, you will lose money by horses, and be way-laidas you return from market.DEVIL. To dream of this professed enemy to thehuman race, denotes that many dangers will threatenyou, all of which you will overcome; it foretells of alawsuit, in which your adversary will endeavour secretlyto undermine you,' nevertheless you wall get the betterof him, and put him to shame; if you are in love, itforebodes that some one is endeavouring to alienate theaffections of your sweetheart, but will be unsuccessful;to the tradesman, it denotes a great deal of business,attended with many troubles; to the poor, it denotesgood employment ; and to the sailor, a wife with a greatsum of money.DIGGING. Implies good.DOGS. To dream of these domestic and faithfulanimals, has very different significations, according totb* manner in which you see them,—if they fawn andfondle upon jou, then it is a lucky omen; if you have9had a quarrel with a friend or sweetheart, it will bereconciled to your advantage; if you are in love, yoursweetheart will marry you, and render you very happy;it denotes health, riches, and honovir: if they are bark¬ing and snarling at you, then depend that enemies aresecretly endeavouring to destroy your reputation andhappiness; if you are in love, be careful of your presentsweetheart; if you marry him or her, you will be un¬happy and poor; if you dream they bite you, then it isa certain prognostic that you will experience some loss;if you are in love, your sweetheart will deceive you andmake you very unhappy.DOORS. Success in undertakings, if admitted.DROWNING. To dream you are drowning, or thatyon see another drowned or drowning, portends goodto the dreamer, and denotes that he will escape manydifficulties, settle near his native place, marry, havechildren, and become happy and rich: to the lover, itdenotes that your sweetheart is good tempered, and in¬clined to marry you. If you are a sailor, it foretells afavourable and a pleasant voyage.DRUNKENNESS, boss in business, but success inlove.EAGLES. Prosperity, riches, and honour.EATING. To dream you are eating, is a very un¬favourable omen; it portends disunion among yourfamily, losses in trade, and disappointment in love—storms and shipwreck by sea. To dream you see otlierseating, is of a contrary tendency, and foretells successin all your present enterprises; if you marry the pre¬sent object of y'our affections, that you will grow rich, behappy, and have dutiful children.ELEPHANT. Fear and danger; sometimes riches.ENEMY. When dreamt of, take care.EYES. To dream you lose your eyes is a very unfa¬vourable omen; it denotes decay of circumstances, lossof friends, death of relations, and miscarriage in love.If a woman with child dreams of it, it denotes that thechild in her womb will be very unhappy, and before itarrives at years of maturity, lose its liberty.FALL. To dream you fall from any high place; orfrom a tree, denotes loss of place and goods; if you arein love, it surely indicates that you will never marry10the present object of your affections. To the tradesman,it denotes decline of business; and to the sailor^ stormsand shipwreck.FEASTING. To dream you are at a feast, denotesthat you will meet with many disappointments, particu¬larly in the thing which you are most anxious about: ifin love, it denotes much uneasiness between sweethearts;and to those who are married, it foretells undutifulchildren, with many heavy losses.FIELDS. To dream you are in green fields is avery favourable sign; in love, it denotes success andhappiness.FIGHTING. To dream you are fighting, denotes tothe lover that you will lose the object of your affectionsthrough a foolish quarrel: it also forebodes much oppo¬sition to your wishes, with loss of character and pro¬perty. After such a dream, I would advise the dreamerto quit his present situation, because such a dream in¬dicates that you will not prosper in it; to the sailor, itdenotes storms and shipwreck, with disappointment inlove.FIRE. To dream of the subtle elements, denotes ihealth and. happiness to the lover, marriage with theobject of your affections, and many children: it also jdenotes that you will be very angry with some one onft trifling occasion. To dream you see burning lightsdescending, as it were from heaven, is a very bad sign 1indeed; it portends some dreadful accident to thedreamer, such as being hanged, losing your head, hav-ing your brains dashed out, breaking your legs/ getting Jinto prison, or other strange accidents.FISHING. To dream you are fishing, is a sign ofsuccess or trouble; if you catch any fish, success inbusiness; if they slip out of your hand, it is a sign ofsome pretended friend who will deceive you.FLEAS. To see them means disquiet.FLYING. To dream you are flying, is a very excel¬lent omen; it foretells elevation of fortune; that youwill arrive at dignity in the state, and be happy. If \you are in love, your sweetheart will be true to you,and if you marry, you will have many children.FOREST. Signifies trouble.FORTUNE. To dream you make a sudden fortuneJ11is a very bad omen; to the tradesman, it denotes lossesin trade, quarrelling with his creditors, and the loss ofliberty; to the lover, it denotes that your sweetheartdoes not return your love; to the sailor, it indicatesstorms and shipwreck.FOX. An enemy, or a deceitful woman.FRIEND. To dream you see a friend dead, betokenshasty news of a joyous nature; if you are in love, itforetells a speedy marriage with the object of youraffections.FRUIT. To dream of fruit, has different interprets^! tions, according to what the fruit is that you dream of.Apples betoken long life and success; a boy to a womanwith child; cheerfulness in your sweetheart, and richesby trade. Cherries indicate disappointment in love,vexation in the marriage state, and slight in love. Figsare the forerunners of prosperity and happiness; to thelover, they denote the accomplishment of your wishes;to the tradesman, increase of trade; they are also indi¬cative of a legacy. Gooseberries indicate many children,chiefly sons, and an accomplishment of your presentpursuits; to the sailor, they declare dangers in his nextvoyage; to the maiden, a roving husband; and to theman, a rakish wife. Nuts, if you see clusters of them,denote riches and happiness; to the lover, success anda good tempered sweetheart. If you are gathering ofthem, it is not a good omen, for you will pursue somematter that will not turn out to your advantage; if youcrack them, the person who courts you, or to whom youpay your addresses, will treat you with indifference, andbe very unfaithful. Oranges are very bad omens; theyforebode loss of goods and reputation, attacks fromthieves, wounds, and fickleness in the object of your1f| affections. Pears prefigure elevation in life, accumula¬tion of riches and honour, success in undertakings, andi constancy in love. If a woman with child dreams ofthem, she will have a girl who will marry one far aboveher rank before she is seventeen. Strawberries denoteto women with child a good time, and a boy; to amaiden, speedy marriage with a man who will becomerich, and make her happy; to a youth, they denote thathis wife will be sweet tempered, and bring him manyi children, all boys; they foretell riches to the tradesmanaad the sailor.—Raspberries denote fidelity and happi¬ness in ruarriage.FUNERAL. A speedy marriage.GALLOWS. To dream of the gallows is a most for¬tunate omen; it shows that the dreamer will becomerich, and arrive at great honours; to the lover, it showsthe consummation of his most sanguine wishes; for awoman with child to dream of the gallows, signifies thatshe is pregnant of a son, will have a good time, and thatthe fruit of her womb will become very rich.GARDEN. To dream you are walking in a gardenis good; it portends elevation in fortune; to the lover,* denotes great success; to the tradesman, increase of !business.GEESE. To dream of geese is good; expect soon tos e a long absent friend; they denote success and riches.GIANT. Is a very fortunate dream.GIFTS. To dream you have anything given to you,in a sign that some good is about to happen to you; ita.Vo denotes that a speedy marriage will take place be-t- ixt you and your sweetheart.GLASS. To dream of glass is a sign of inconstancy,and denotes unSuccess in various undertakings.GOLD. To dream of gold is a very good omen; itdenotes success in your undertakings, after some diffi-ca.f.ies.v rRAVE. To dream you see a grave, foretells sick-ii s.i and disappointment; if you are in love, dependyou will never many your present sweetheart; if yougn into the grave, it shows you will experience a loss of ’property, and that false friends will defame you; if youcor'ie out of the grave, it denotes success in yourunder-t ikings, that you will rise in the world, and becomevery rich; and if you are in love, that you will speedilymarry your sweetheart; if you take another out of theglove, you will be the means of saving the life of aperson, who will be a very great friend to you, and re-cei ve some unexpected legacy.GUNS. Danger, shipwreck, &c. 1tIAIR. To dream you are combing your hair, por-t, uds success in love, business, or any other pui-suit;ai« riches.HANGED. To dream you see people hanged, or13| that you are going to be hanged yourself denotes that' you will rise above your present condition by marriage.HILLS. To dream of travelling over steep hills,shows that you will encounter many difficulties, andenter upon some arduous undertaking: if you descend‘the hill hastily, you will get the better of all your dif-fii ulties and enemies, and become rich; to the lover, itishows rivals, who will give great uneasiness.HOUSES. To dream of horses is very lucky.HOUSE. To dream of building a house is a veryfavourable omen; if you are in trade, it denotes success;if in love, that your sweetheart is good tempered andi faithful, and will make you very happy. To dreamJyour house is burnt down, denotes much trouble andnaiiy difficulties, with the loss of goods and reputation.To dream you see your house on fire, foretells hastyjews, and that you will lose a near relation.HUNTING. To dream you are hunting a fox, and. pat he is killed, shows much trouble through the pre¬hensions of false friends, but that you will discover them,laud overcome all their machinations; if you are huntingia hare, it is indicative of bad success: you will be dis¬appointed in your favourite object, be what it may;i jmnting a stag, if he is caught alive, denotes good toee dreamer, and that he will be successful in all hisesent undertakings.ICE. A favourable omen.INFANTS. Cares and obstructions.KEYS. To dream of keys, is favourable to a persontrade; and to a sailor, they denote some gift, and the[reamer will become rich. To dream you lose a key,•eshows anger, and that you will lose a friend. Toearn of finding a key, denotes an addition to yourifdate. If you are married, it also foretells the birthf a child: if you give another a key, you will bei oeedily married; in love, keys betoken faithfulness,nd a good tempered sweetheart.H KING. To dream of speaking to the king, or any ofu Royal family, is disappointments and difficulties.KISSING. To dream you are kissing a pretty maid■ | good; it denotes that some unexpected friend will douu a great kindness.K.N4VES, To dream of knives is a very unpropi-14tious omen; it betokens lawsuits, poverty, disgracestrife, and a general failure in the pursuit of your pro¬jects; in love, it denotes a happy marriage with theobject of your affections, and that you will become, bj iindustry, rich, and settle your children happy.LETTERS. To dream of receiving letters, is demon¬strative of your being beloved by a person of the oppo¬site sex, who is very much your friend, and will do all !in their power to render you happy. To dream cdl iwriting letters, shows success in enterprises, and thaiyou will receive some very pleasant news.LIGHT. To dream you see a great light is a happwpresage. It denotes that you will attain to great hon-lfours, and become very rich; in love, it shows a sweet-Jheart of an amiable disposition, that you will marrjjjwell, have children, and be very happy; if the light dis- happears all of a sudden, it betokens a great change inyour present situation, much for the worse; it portend* >imprisonment, and loss of goods, with unexpected mis¬fortunes.LINEN. To dream you are dressed in clean line n Idenotes that you will shortly receive some glad tidings—that your sweetheart is faithful, and will marry you (—that you will be successful in all your present under ttakings, and that you will receive a handsome present ifrom an agreeable youth; if your linen is chequered'you will get a legacy from some friend, and marry £ |very industrious person; if it is dirty, then it denotes >!>overty, a prison, and disappointment in love, with th# ifoss of something valuable.LION. Denotes injury by a great person.LOOKING-GLASS. To the single, lovers; to th*married, children.MARRIAGE. To dream you are married, is ominous |of death, and very unfavourable to the dreamer; it de¬notes poverty, a prison, and misfortunes. To dream yoojiassist at a wedding, is the forerunner of some pleasant Inews, and great success. To dream of lying with youinewly married husband or wife, threatens danger 01sudden misfortunes, and also that you will lose a pariOf your property. To the sailor, it augurs storms ancshipwrecks, with a narrow escape from death.MILK. To dream you are selling milk, denotes that15■ityou will be crossed in love, that you will be unsuccess¬ful in trade. To dream you are drinking m^lk, is theiforerunner of joyful news and great success; if you aregiving milk away, it shows you will be successful inlove, and marry happily, have children, and do verywell. To see milk flowing from the breast of a woman,denotes success in trade, and in love, that you will havemany children, and that they will become rich by thej industry of their parents.( MICE. To dream of mice, denotes success in love,tnd a happy marriage. ' •MONEY. To dream of receiving money, denotesi^reat success.MONKEYS. Indicate enemies.MOON. To dream of the moon, denotes sudden and|nexpected joy, and success in love.MOTHER. To dream you see your mother, is a cer-fiin prognostic of some agreeable adventure being about' happen to you, and that you will hear from a friend: t a distance. To dream you see your mother dead,ulorebodes trouble, adversity, and that you will becomeary poor.MUSIC. To dream you hear delicious music, is afery favourable omen; it denotes joyful news from a|ng absent friend; to married people, it denotes sweetImpered children; in love, it shows that your sweet-part is very fond of you, is good tempered, sincere andnstant. Rough and discordant music, foretells trouble,ixation, and disappointment. . ,NAKEDNESS. To dream of nakedness^ denoteslexpected honour.NAILS. To dream your nails are growing long, isry good, and denotes riches, prosperity, and happiness,eat success in love, a good, industrious husband orfe, with dutiful children; it also foretells that you willi ddenly receive a sum of money that will be of great; e to you.JNETTLES. Constancy in love.INIGHTINGALE. To dream of this pretty warbler,|t"he forerunner of joyful news, greht success in busi-Iss, of plentiful crops, and of a sweet tempered lover,hr a married woman to dream of a nightingale, shows]ht she will have children that will be great singers.NUTS. If you see clusters of them, denote rictul'and happiness to the lover, success and a good-temperrj]sweetheart; if you are gathering them, it is not a g**omen; if you crack them, the person who courts yoor to whom you pay your addresses, will treat you nilindifference, and be unfaithful.OIL. Good fortune to women; shame to menOLD WOMEN. For a man to dream he is courtman old woman, and that she returns his love, is a veifortunate omen; it prefiguressuccess in worldly concerns—that he will marry a beautiful young woman, havlovely children, and be veiy happy.ONIONS. To dream of this useful vegetable denotea mixture of good and bad luck,—if you are eating theayou will receive some money, recover some lost or stolethings, or discover some hidden treasure; your sweetheart will be faithful, but of a cross temper; it also (hnotes attack from thieves, and a failure of crojis; itshows that you will be engaged in some disagreeablquarrel, perhaps with your own family. If you anthrowing onions away, it is the forerunner of mischieand quarrels; if you are in love, you will fall out wifiyour sweetheart; if you are in trade, you will quarrewith your customers and servants; if you are gatherintonions, it betokens the recovery of some sick person c' f some unexpected news ofiOVEN. To dream you see an oven, foretells thayou are about to be separated from your family b>changing your present residence; it shows you an attafby thieves in some bye place, and also that your sweetheart is of a roving disposition, little likely to make yoj(haL or BAT. Is a bad omen.OXEN. To dream of seeing fair and white oxershows virtuous inclinations.O ASTERS. To dream you are eating oysters, is 'iVery favourable omen; if you are in trade, your businesWill increase very fast, and you will become rich; if yo*are a farmer, you will have plentiful crops; if vou at"married, your wife or husband will be very fond of yoiremoval from your preseai7of eating oysters, shows that she will be quickly marriedto a young man who will thrive much by industry, andhave many children by her; to a man, it denotes thatihe will marry a real virgin, who will be very fond ofi him, arid bring him many children.I PALM. To dream you are gathering palm, denotesolenty, riches, and success in undertakings, and is a veryj jgood omen indeed; to a married woman, it is a certaintoken of her bearing children; to a maid, it foretells asudden marriage with the youth she.loves, that she willipave many children by him, and that she will live veryjiappy in the married state.1] PAPER. To dream of paper is a good omen; if it isjSnuife clean, you will be very successful in your under-i lickings, marry the person you love, have good anddutiful children, and be very happy; if it is dirty andscribbled upon, then it shows temporary want, and:i|ome unpleasant altercation; if it is plainly written,ou will receive hasty news of a good nature, make an■dvantageous bargain, and obtain some money by a,|egacy; if it appears rumpled and carelessly folded up,t shows that some difficulties will occur which will give’ou much pain; if it is neatly folded, you will obtainwour favourite wish, be what it may.| PEACOCK. To dream of seeing this beautiful bird,is a very good omen; it denotes great success in trade;x> a man—a very beautiful wife, much riches, and a;ood place; to a maid, a good and rich husband; to aririow, that she will be courted by one who will tell;ier many fine tales, without being sincere; it also de¬letes great prosperity by sea, and a handsome wife ini distant part.PICTURES. To dream you are looking at beautifulbictures, foreshows that you will be allured by falsei'.ppearances into some unprofitable conoern, that youvill waste your time on some idle project, and that youJbill always be in pursuit of happiness without attainingihjt; in love, it denotes great pleasure in the enjoymenti»f the beloved object, it promises a handsome wife, aitood husband, and beautiful cliiluren.I PIGEONS. To dream you ee pigeons flying, im-IportH hasty news of a pleasant h.aure, and great successin undertakings; they are very favqurable to lovers, asthey announce constancy in your sweetheart, butthat the person you love will be absent from you a Ion,while on a journey; if your lover is at sea, they denotthat he has a pleasant voyage, continues faithful, andwill return rich.PIT. To dream of falling into a deep pit, shows that 1some very heavy misfortune is about to attend you, that!1your sweetheart is false, and prefers another; to a sailor '■it forebodes some sad disaster at the next port you touch '«at. To dream you are in a pit, and that you climb out!of it without much trouble, foreshows that you will havemany enemies, and experience much trouble, but thatyou will overcome them, and surmount your difficulties, t:marry well, and become rich; to a sailor, it denotes thathe will experience shipwreck, and be cast on a foreign. -shore, where he will be hospitably received, fall in love, 1marry a rich and handsome wife, quit the sea, and live’Lat ease on the shore.PLAYS. To dream you are at a play, is the fore¬runner of great good luck; it betokens great happinessin the marriage state, and very great success in busi- 1ness; to a maid, it shows speedy marriage with a youngman, who will be very successful in business, and |-acquire riches and honours to make her very happy. fPLOUGH. Success in matrimony.PURSE. To dream of finding a purse, is a very ffavourable omen; it denotes great happiness and un- -looked-for prosperity; in love, it is the sure token of aspeedy marriage, and the being dearly beloved by the: iobject of your affections. To dream you lose your <purse, shows the loss of a friend; in other respects, it 1denotes some pleasant adventure is about to happen to S'you, by which you will be the gainer; to the sailor, it ■denotes the loss of his sweetheart while at sea.RACING. To dream you are running a race, is a !token of good, presages much success in life, and that -you will speedily hear some very joyful news; in love, ifit denotes that you will conquer all your rivals, and be tjvery happy in the union with the object of your affec- ttions. To dream you are riding a race, show’s disap- :pointment and anger, bad success in trade and in love; | (to a married woman, it denotes the loss of her husband’s taffections, and that her children will be in trouble.19RAIN. To dream of being in a shower of rain, if itjt>e gentle and soft, is very favourable to lovers; it de«) notes constancy, affection, and a sweet temper.RAINBOW. To dream you see a rainbow, denotes(great travelling and change of fortune; it also foretellsissudden news of a very agreeable nature; it announcesthat your sweetheart is of a very good temper, andjeonstant, and that you will be very happy in marriage:have great success iu business through the means ofilrading with foreign ports.RATS. To dream of rats is a sign of many enemies,i RAVENS. To dream you see a raven, is a very un¬favourable token; it denotes mischief and adversity; iudove, it shows falsehood; and to the married, they fore-jixxle much mischief through the adultery of your con¬jugal partner; to the sailor, they betoken shipwreck,d much distress upon a foreign shore.RED HAIR. Always denotes an enemy in dreams.RIBBONS. Shows entanglement in love.RIDING. To dream you are riding, if it be with ahorse, is very unfortunate; expect to be crossed in love;| f you are in trade, business will decay, and you will bej|rery near bankruptcy; if you are a sailor, it denotesikfjerfidy in your sweetheart, and loose conduct with one‘your shipmates; but if it be with him, then expect.e reverse of these things will happen, and that youill obtain a sum of money by some speculation ofhich you have but an indifferent opinion.RIVER. To dream you see a flowing river, and thate waters are smooth and clear, presages happinessd success in life; to the lover, it shows constancy andffection in the object of your love, and that if yoularry, you will pass a very happy and contented life,,ave fine children, mostly girls, who will be very beau-ful; to the tradesman and farmer, it shows prosperitynd gain; to the sailor,that his sweetheart will be kindnd constant, and that his next voyage will be lucrativend pleasant. If the water appears disturbed anduddy, or has a yellow tinge, then it denotes that youill acquire considerable riches; if you have a lawsuit,eh a dream surely foretells that you will gain yourause.RODS. To dream you are whipt with rods denotes20tthfit you will meet with a perfidious friend, who will £very near to ruin you; it also betokens your be inishortly at a merry-making, where you must be carefuof quarrelling; if you do, it will turn out to your disadvantage; in love, it denotes your sweetheart to be of ifickle disposition, and little calculated to make yo?happy. !HOSES. To dream of roses in season, is a token fflhappiness and success. To dream of these or anjother flowers, out of season, indicates sickness and diaiappointment.SHAVING. Treachery in love.SHEEP. To dream you see a flock of sheep feeding;is a very' favourable omen; it denotes success in life; t<(the lover, it indicates your sweetheart to be faithful, oian amiable temper, and inclined to marry you; in themarried state, it denotes children, who will be verlhappy, become rich, and be great comforts in the even¬ing of life; to the tradesman, it foretells increase oibusiness, and accumulation of wealth; but also fore¬warns him that he has a servant unworthy of his con¬fidence; to the sailor, nothing can be a greater sign olgood luck, his next voyage will be pleasant and lucra¬tive, and his sweetheart kind and true.To dream you see them dispersing, and running awayfrom you, shows that pretended friends are endeav<lin¬ing to do you an injury, and that your children willmeet with persecution and great troubles; in love, such!a dream shows your sweetheart to be fickle, and littlecalculated to make you happy. To dream you -e*sheep shearing, is indicative of loss of property and theaffections of the person you love, also your liberty. Toidream you are shearing them yourself, shows that ymuwill gain an advantage over some person who meant tharm you, and that you will get the better of difficul¬ties, and marry the object of your affections.SHI PS. To sail in tine weather, success in life.SHOES. New—success in life; if worn, the reverse.SINGING. To dream you are singing, shows youwill shortly hear some melancholy news.SILVER. To dream of silver, shows that falsefriends are about you; in love, it denotes falsehood iayour sweetheart.21l *SMALL-POX. Riobes, by dirty ineabs.5 SNOW. To dream of snow is favourable; in love, it•esagee marriage.i SOLDIERS. To dream of soldiers, shows trouble,irsecutions, and lawsuits.SPIT. To dream you are in a kitchen turning a spit,I the forerunner of troubles and misfortunes; expect toi s robbed, to lose your trade, to become very poor, andnat your friends will desert you; if you are in love, itiows the object of your affections to be of a bad temper,. zy, and doomed to misfortunes and poverty,i SQUIRREL. To dream of a squirrel, shows thati enemies are endeavouring to slander your reputation;3 the lover, it shows your sweetheart to be of a badam per, and much given to drinking; if you have a law-Uit, it will surely be decided against you; if in trade,harpei’s will endeavour to defraud you, and you willuarrel with your principal creditor.STARCHING. To dream you are starching linen,hows you will be married to an industrious person, andliat you will be successful in life, and save money; itIso shows that you are about to receive a letter, con-lining some pleasant news. C'f STARS. To dream you see the stars shining veryIfc'Nght, is success to the lover, and good news from a'Mistant country;" to see them fall, denotes health,i RUN. To dream you see the sun shine, shows accu¬mulation of riches, and posts of honour in the state.I SWANS. To dream of seeing swans, denotes happi-rtliess in the marriage state; and many children, who willJilx'eome rich and respectable in your old age, with joymud happiness; to the lover, they denote constancy and.nfdlection in your sweetheart; in trade, they show sue-Miess, but much vexation from the disclosure of secrets.Hi SWIMMING. To dream you are swimming withfjlyour head above the water, denotes great success indtyour undertakings, whether they be love, trade, sea, orafttnnmg. To dream of swimming with your head belowithe water, shows that you will experience some great.’ ’trouble, and hear some very unpleasant news from a■ p« ison you thought dead. In trade, it shows loss of•' b mness, and that fou will perhaps be imprisoned forfjideht; in love, it denotes disappointment in your wishes*22TEMPESTS. To dream you are in a storm or tem¬pest, shows that you will, after many difficulties, arrivalat being very happy, that you will become extremelyrich, and marry exceeding well. For a lover to dreamof being in a violent tempest, denotes that you willhave many formidable rivals, who, after causing you a.great deal of vexation and uneasiness, you will triumph,over. It also forebodes that you will receive good newsifrom a long absent friend, who is abroad, and who willhave overcome many hardships and extreme difficulties.TEETH. To dream you lose your teeth, denotes theloss of some friend by death, and that troubles andmisfortunes are about to attend you.THIRST. If clear water, joy; if muddy, misfortune.THUNDER AND LIGHTNING. To dream youhear distinctly thunder, and see lightning, is a very goodomen; it denotes success in trade; good crops to the:farmer; and a speedy and happy marriage to the lover.If you are soliciting a place, you will obtain it; if youhave a lawsuit, it will go in your favour; it also indi¬cates speedy news from a far distant country, intimatingthat a near relative has obtained a very lucrative situa¬tion, in which he will have an opportunity of doing hisfriends a great deal of good.TREES. To dream you see trees in blossom, denotesa happy marriage with the present object of your affec¬tions, and many children, who will all do extremely well,in life; to the tradesman, it denotes success in business;)and to the sailor, pleasant and lucrative voyages. Todream you are climbing trees, denotes that you willmake a fortune, and rise to honours and dignities in thestate. To dream you are cutting down trees, foretells 1heavy losses by trade and by sea; and also the death ofa near relation, or most dear friend.TRUMPET. To dream that you hear the sound ofa trumpet is a bad omen, and denotes troubles and mis¬fortunes; to the tradesman, it presages the loss ofbusiness; the farmer, bad crops; to the lover, insincerityin the object of your affections.VAULTS and CELLARS. Marriage to a widow.VENUS. In mortal form, a happy marriage.VERMIN. Is ominous of ill luck.VEXATION. Foretells the reverse.23VINE. Abundance, with frugality and riches.VINEGAR. Sickness and sharp words.VICTUALS. Denotes loss.VIOLIN. Concord and good news.VIRGIN. To talk with one, denotes joy.VIRTUE. Resist after this dream, or you are un¬done.5 WATER. To dream you are drinking water, denotesgreat trouble and adversity in trade, loss of business,.and being arrested; to the lover, it shows your sweet-(heart is false, prefers another, and will never marry you.' WHEAT. To dream you see, or are walking in a.Beld of wheat, is a very favourable omen, and denotes1 great prosperity and riches; in love, it augurs a comple¬tion of your most sanguine wishes, and foretells muchhappiness, with fine children, when you marry; if youhave a lawsuit, you will gain it, and you will be success¬ful in all your undertakings.Ij WALKING. In dirt—vexation in love.l( WALLS. Security,r WAR. Anger and trouble,f WASHING. Foretells change of abode,f WASPS. Envy and much trouble./ WATER-MILL. Increase of business.F WEASEL. A bad wife or husband.WEATHER. If fine, it is a good omen.F WEDDER-SHEEP. Denotes health and plenty.WEDDINGS. Denote misfortune,i WEEPING. Joy and mirth,i WELL. To draw water from—marriage,s" 5 WHISKY. A bad omen.■it® WIFE. Change of affairs. .t1 WILD BOAR. A furious relentless enemy.WILD HORSE. Rashness and temerity.WOLF. Cruelty and avarice.WOMAN. To see one, is a union.'J' WOOD. To carry—is profit to the poor.WOOL. To sweethearts, love.WRESTLING. Strife, sickness, and lawsuits.WRITING. Be cautious in telling what you hear.\ YAWNING. Your friends are tired of you.YELLOW. Trouble; to lovers, marriage.| YEW. Loss of friends by death.24YOKE. An approaching marriage.YOUTH. Peace and happiness.ZEBRA Indicates a chequered life; be watchful.ZEPHYRS. A very good dream.MOLES.Their Signification either in Men or Women.These marks on the body are remarkable for guides!rither to the good or bad fortunes of any one.A mole on the left side of a man, denotes danger andstruggling; on a woman, sorrow and great pain in child¬birth.A mole on the left cheek, foretells fruitfulness in■either sex.A mole on the upper lip, shows happiness in marriage, iA mole on the breast shows affection, loyalty,strength,]i/l /mitvqorn wlii/Wi will omin Vi/vn/virr'and courage, which will gain honour.A mole on'the right cheek, shows the party to be to®much beloved, and will come unto great fortune.A mole on the left shoulder, sorrow and labour.A mole on the throat, denotes the party to be a greatglutton; and, by excess, will undergo great disease, andperadyefiture sudden death.A mole on the right eye, shows loss of sight.A mole on the forehead of a man or woman, denob sthey shall grow rich, being beloved of their friends andneighbours.A mole on the eyebrows of a man. denotes inconsist¬ency; but if on a woman, it shows sue will have a goodhusband.A mole on the nose shows that the party loves plea¬sure more than anything else.A mole on the heck shows a man to be prudent in hisactions; but if on.a woman, it betokens weak judgment,*pt to believe the worst of her husband.