Apparitions. ,The EFFECTS of^ «r!l FEAR, or FRAUD-I ' F R.OM 'VARIOUS AUTHORS.“ Would you your tender cffrpring rearWith minis v/tl. form’d, -devoid of fear.Ne’er Rttlie auiit witt idle t?jeOf Gho!t their infant ears afl'-iil,Or Rug-a- boo! Q.r Cld’.nnyy Rweep! *Tc 'Tc.rrdy- th ininto j.lt ep.Thus, when manAd by ripa.-rg age.And brought up n the wor'ds greatN-> midnight horrorevejt the Sonl■ Cf howling dog, or hoc ting owl!But on they move wt’h ihaqjy tread,‘Accrrfstlie manfions of the dead;Or pafs ti e ruin’d to <\;r, where'l raditibt! fays’ Gobi;, s rnpc-.u.’’■> •> >>.'>>..> .>.>..>.>->..>..>..>..y.-f*J.v .> fmDUNBARted for and Sold by Cf. JVlf.LLIR at v.hcfe Shor- mav be, 3 .'rlety ot Sniafi HHtones, Sermorf Scr. i Sttuh iussjBaJladr--, Childrens Books and Fi-f;u-e8»H/UOLE SAL-k and liLTsUL.An 'ACCOUNT offome IMAGINARY A%par mom.An Imaginary Apparition, thi Effect, of Fear,From the Secrets of the hwifble World laid open, ■A Sober grave gentleman, who mull n:v^ar a name in our ftory, becaufewas rather a dill cm per in his mind thanreal deficiency of brains, had by a long dlife of the fprightly part of his fenfe, whiJhe really-had no want of at other times, Afered himielf to fink a little too low infpirits, and let the Hypochondria emit tflrongiy in vapour and fumes -ip into Ijhead. This had its fits and its interval.5^ fon*times he was clear-lighted, and clear-heaed, but at other times he law fiars at not]day, and devils at night: in a word, tiworld was an apparition to his imaginatkwhen the flatus prevailed, and the fpleboiled up: of all which he could give no .count, nor cotnd he afiifi the operationphyfic by any of his own powers towardcure..It happened, that bg was abroad afriend’s houfe later than ordinary one nigibut being moon-light, and having a lervjwith him, he feemed to be eafy, andobferved to be chearful and even menwiiha great deal-of good-humour, moretihad been obferved ui him for fotne time I♦ore. ^ [. i ie knW his w ay petfd^ly well, for itithin three miles or tne town where be liv~d, ami he, was very we! mounted; but/tough the moon was up, an accident, whichjiittie ditbrdered him, was, that it was notInly cloudy, but a very thick, black cloudauie luddenly (that is to lay, without hisIptice, To it was tuddcn to him) and Ip reachvcr his head, which made it very dark;lid, to add to the diforder, it began to rainiiolently.d Upon this, being very well mounted, as Ifore obferved, he refolvetl to-ride for it,.ving not above two miles to the town; foitping Ipurs to his horle, he gallo . d away,is man, whofe name was Gervais, not bev? fo well mounted, was a conljderable w;ivhind. The darknefs aiid the rain toge-.r put him a little out of humour; but ast was a little unexpected, perhaps it madeIn ride the harder rather than abated histf:e.|n the way there was a fmall river, butwas a good bridge over it, well walledboth lides; fo chat there w^as no dangerre, more than any where elfe; but thetleman kept on his fpeed to go over theige, when being rather more than halfr, his horie flopped on a hidden, andfed as we call it, bearing off to the rightlie faw nothing at. firft, and was notfi . . I Ich difeompofed at it, but fpurred hi;jfe to go forward; the horfe went twe ori*c fleps, then flopped again, fnerted, a;.d(4 )Hared, and then offered ro turn fhort badthen the ffenilenian looking; forward to ftwhat was the matter, and if he could obferiwhat the horle was feared at, law rwo broaiflaring eyes, which, as he laid, looked hitful! in the face.Then he was heartily "fighred; but Ifthis time he heard his man Gfrlaw^comiJup. When Gervais came near, the tuft thifhe heard his mafter fay, was Blefs we,is the Dci'ilf at w hich Gervais, a low ipirjtfellow' was as much frighted As his maftehowever his mafter a little encoma^ed'toin/ < , Ohis man fo near him,'preis'd his horfe ormore, and called alood to Gervais to'corbut he, as I laid, being flighted too, mtno hafte; atlength wi*h nnith ado his maftl'purrino- his horfe again, got over the bridjland paifcd by the creature witluj broad eyr\vhich(the light a little irha eafm.g) heaffirnjpofitivcly, when he was palled, was a grblack Bear, and confequently mufl be j.Dtt'iL1 ho’ Gervais wets near enough, yet fding his mafter w'bu d let him to go btfcfbe kept as far off he' cou 1 d: \Vhen'rtafler called he anfw'ered indeed, butnot come on, at kaft didhafte; but feeing hisand that he himlclf was then obliged'tonot make tnli|mdrier was gone?uw1, lie went on foftly, and when he elto the bridge, he law what his mafters h( 5 Arted and r^.,iecl to go on; of whicha (hall hear more prefendy.dis mallet’s horfe being got pad the dif-iliy, needed no ipurs, but (as fi;i.ghredfes will) flew away liketh'e wind; and thea continuing, his mailer, who on many •founts was willing to be at home, let him•i, fo that he‘was at home and got into thetie, }on<T before h;s man Gtrvris could ■I up with him.- v - -The mailer,;as’Rioti as he' came into the ,hitfifwooned away, and the irsght hadih an effect upon him, that when vvjtiich chfficultv thev* had brought him- to.afelf, he continued verydl!; and when his!y and a fitter be had in the houfe withi, as much oyer-run with ■the' Hippo asffclf, came to enquire what had happen - ■dto him; he tord them a formal ftorr, thattjfuch a bridge he met the Devil; that he1 ecu himfeif juil at the com log off from the*idge, on- his left hand, at the corner iff| wall; that he flood and Hared in his face,■X drat hg could diftinctly perceive it was -fI Devil in the lh ape of a Bear: He gave- o -r defc'. iptiems, fo punctual and particular,t there was no room to doubt but it wasappaduon, apd that it was in. the.shapea great bear.GIfR.VAIS came home foon .after, anding into the liable directly, as was his bu-| efs, to fake care of Lis mafter’s horie^as.11 as his own, tlicre lie- told the1 [lory hisurC 6 )V/ay, among the othei ? '. vr»nrs, and efpally rwo or three grooms or fei vmrs be)oaJing ro gentlemen that were neighbours; an<he tells them that his mailer was in great dan:gtr of being thrown over the wa'i bft he bridgefor that his horfe was ft iglued at an afs- whiJhood at the corner of the waif, and it w|jmy fault indeed, fays G<:rvaL. for it was}oung horlV, and I had never told, mv mzrcr;Obutttwas a trick, he. had got that 1]could not abide an.afs, and' would by rmeans come near one if he could help m.And are you fine it was an afs, GervcLfay the other lervants, flaring at one anothas if they were /righted: Are yon fare fi1' Yes, fays Gervais, for as foon as nf!! aider got by. ir, 1 rode, up to it and threfhn uivith my flick, and ,it fell a braying, wh.icyon know, lays Gervais,. is a k.ife uggly noifand fo I came away and left ir.Why Gervais, (av they ^our maher hJieves it was the Devil, as really as if he im|fpoken to it.I am ferry my mailer (hould be fo fri^hed, fays Gervais; but T am very fure it wnothing but an afs. Cut the flory Jrad golten vent, and the firfl part nf it flew all ovthe town, that Mr had feen the Devand was aim off frighted to death,Then came his man Gervais’s rale, amade it Appear that Mr. ——’s ftranye a-wonderful apparition was dwindled into «vh.u lire Devil he had leen inif, andC 7 )peofa bear was no more than a poorijjcco; as the Italians call him; this madeImafter be laughed at fufficiently.'[However, poor Jarvis or Gervais was fainijurn out, and lo!t his place for it; and the|p Mr. —~ to this day infills upon it,' ! it was the Devil, and lie knew him b/I broad eves; though it is known that aIr has very little eyes; But it is impoflibletperiuade any vapounfh body, that theye not feen the Devil, if they have bnc|ii fomething, and that they are very fareI' are not' fare what it is.AnotherjiRelited in a Voyage to Neiv Tori.(From the Wonderful Magazine.)£ had not been four days at fea, be*fore an occurrence of a very finguiarlire broke in upon our quiet: it was aIII! One night when ail was tliii and dark,! the fhip rolling in the cradle of the lea,fere the wind, a man (prung fndden!v'In the deck in his ihirt, his hair erect,[eyes flatting from their lockets, and ytId, he had feen a ghoft. After'his hor-jiwas a little reduced, we a deed him, whatifead feen; he laid the figure of a womanfled in white, with eyes flaming fir..;I (he came to'his hammock, and Hared:* in the tace. This, we treated as an idlenun, and lent the frantic fellow to Ids bed.s ftory became the tub]eft of every man’smonth, and the fucceeding nighthalf a dozen liiore terrified men, to corrcrate'Vv hat had happened the hi ft, and allgreed in the tame ftorv, that it was a wotnsjThis plot fhickfling bv time, became c!•ob'ervat;. n or the captain and officers, iall vvere equally led ulcus to drlcovercan'e. I placed mvtclt night *by night'beneath the hammocks to -vatch is appiJIance, but in vajn,'and ft ii! .the appeararwas nightly'as nfhal, and the hone rsdears ot the people rather daily inerealed t](jiminiflted. A phantom of this fort rati»muled than perplexed my mind, and w1 had given over every idea of dilcoverihg,canfc of i his ft range circumtlar. ^ ai;d Ithing began to wear itfelf away— i wasprifed,. one very dark night, as. feated imlthe boats, v- itii a ft.ately ' figmre in \vh|italking along the deck! the whumfrc.ilinthe event ftruck my mind that it wasgboft; i dropped down from the place Iin, to the deck on which it appeared; wllit'paufed, turned round, and marched 1redly, forward;: I followed it clof'e, jhrpi;the gallery and erg at the head doors,the figure difappeared, which muchjulbed me, as ir was impoffible'to pafsTin fo nudow a place ,unperceived, f tleaped upbn. the forecall!e, and afkcd ofpeople who were- walking there, if it-eh clg’.c'e liad p.'n'ed them? thevcepir d no, w[ionic tmo:ion and plcafure, as i hady,. . ( 9 ) . .. .uculed the truth ot this narrative. Thisit tcene between me and the gho'd be-l ethe theme of the enfuing day; at t welvemck, when the people pricked at the tub•itheir beef, Jack Sutton was miffing; the1 fs company was mudered, and he wasi: to be found. I then enquired of hist (mates the chaiadler of the man, and af-i number of interrogarofies, one of themk jack ufed to tell him a nuiitber of co¬il voltes about his walking in his deep,e the myftery was unravelled, and theIbunate youth had walked overboard m[ream. But what gave confirmation andfubftance tu the fbadow, was the evilciehce of the firft relic up, that foe wedffigp.s of horror, who, on inquiry, wasId to be a flagitious villain, and hadIjdered a woman whom he believed alwayspted him, and the appearance of .thisIMwaiker confirmed tire gherfl of the met-d fair one; for in \ ch cafes, confcienceb’jfy monitor, and ever adlivcto n’s owiiand difturbance.vi.er—From the Fife of J Fc.cklngto:^ BcokfeUe'r.I?’tflad one day walked with my father toHoly well lake, a village two miles from|iington, where meeting with iornc goodjhe could not finikin h:s heart to partit until late at When we werejrning home by the way ql Kockv/elk•( 10 )Green,, (commoniy called Rogue-Greefrom a gang of robbers and houfe breakwhich formely lived there) having juld pfed the bridge, we were met by feveral nand women, who appeared to be very mifrightened, hehrig in great agitation. Tmtormed us that they were returning baclitiRogue-Green, in order to lleep there inight. They having been prevented fgoing home to Wellington by a drea#A-ppariticn, w hich they all hadfeen in thenlow way, about a quarter of a mile diftadding, that a perfon had bee*n mut'dthere formerly, and that theghoft had wjed there ever iince; *that they had nevertore .paid much attention to the \Velbknereport; bwt now they were obliged to cru, h.aving had ocular demon drat ion.,father-had drank too large a quantity ofto be much-afraid of any thing, and l ('could rot let flip fnch an opportunip*flaewing my courage*) fecondeu matter!the poor terrified people-ro return with usas i offered to lead the van, they werevaried on to. make the attempt once nbut laid, that-it was rather prefumptuand hoped that no dreadful confequcwould enine, as all the company, they ted, were honed-hearted, and intencieqharm to any perfon: they moreover ad*that f4 God certainly was above the Dei then advanced, and kept before live clpan) about fifty yards.u Whirling aloud to bear tr y coa^tgelxp?’-:Bnt when we had walked abput aqtiaiterafiimile, Ifaw, at fotne diftance before, in theilldge, the dreadful apparition that had foftrified our company. Here it is! (laid H•| Lord have mercy upon us!” replied fomcthe co^|^anyr making a full flop; and)uld have gone back again, but fhame. evented them. I dill kept my diftance be-re, and called out to them to follow 'me,—ifur-ing them that l was determined to foetat it was. They then fell one behind ano-:'r, and advanced in fingle files. As I pro-l.eded I too was leized with a timid appre-I nfion, but durfl not own it; but tlill keptI before, although I perceived my hair tolave my hat fi-^m mv head, and my teeth:chatter in my mouth, in faift l was great-agitated at what i faw, the ob'edl much.I enabled the human figure as to thape, but: frze was prodigious. However, I had)n\iled to fee what in was, and for thatrpofe, I obdinareiy ventured On aboutrty yards from the place where I- flrft’hadht of it. 1 then perceived that it was on-a very fhort tree, whole limbs had been|wly cue off, the doing of which had mademuch refenfole a giant. I then called tc>; company, and informed them, with a.arty laugh, that they had been frightenedithe flump of a tree.■ ( 12 )ArOftbcr—Fnm the Samt\Terrible alarm which fame years hni;took place in an Hoipital of this chus related to me by a Gentleman then rtfdent in^ the houfe, who was cons pleat in gJr iedlea1;education, and on whole verac'i'tj:can conlidently rdy. hFpr It vara 1 nights fucceffively, a ncjhad been heard in the lqwer, part of the bail •ing; like the continual tapping againi?window; which led the night nurfes '•wy. ■.to conclude tt mufr certainly be occahon fby the Spirit of one ot the bodies depofitf;.in the dead- honfe, wilhh'g to make itsc .pe that way, the found feerhing to [cted from that particular quartern The eke j.•of thele fa&aacus ladies at lad became lu«■as totally prevent their going from wardward to dot heir duty, and diuermined !friend to attempt to iay this perturbed fpiwhich however he apprehended r'o'uld nrfpeedily, as well as edfedlua!ly. be' perron■by the afhft'ance ci a-good cudge'i, thanany tx>- rdiir.s; he therefore in fie ad of confljling the Chaplain, give orders the.next ntas foon as the ufua! drrtJfulfound was heatrrgiVe !: . notice. Tins . you* may fuppthey did nor negleff cloitig, though atfame timd they were (hocked at Ins ternt y, and apprehenfive for the confequeriHe immediately (allied forth, ivith a carm ope hand, and a good tough twig in i.( x3 ) .,ier, accoiijpamcd with ttvo or the men fer-irus of the Hofjmal, accoutred in the Tamelimner. The dead-boufe was palled; thei'life continued; though it evidently pro-iijeded 'iiom a window at home diltance injt area. When the cavalcade came neare icene ot action,■ the window fuddenlyid violentlv broke, without any thing being;|:n. Thijs my hi end con letted, for a mo-ifbment to occafion his making a halt; butIf nothing vihblc had efcaped through the.a, it occured to hurt fomething might■ ve made an ^mrancethat way: according-i he proceeded to the unernal part -of thej dding; and on opening the door, the ap-Iriuon ninuediateiy not;.only appeared, butjiapptaied, and that foiniianlancoufly asnot?afford time to apply tlie remedy .intended.[ what, thii.k vou, was this dreadfulInc —A CA T.—Imfghtan Appar;f'm.. the cffeB of Frnvl, fromthe Surds of the Invfble IVorld laidcp-. n.Pel n who kept a lodging houfe nearthe fprings, at Aix la-ChSpelle, hav- •g left-his wife, committed the mana^e-etu of ms family To his daughter, a fpright-wtdi! made handfome giri, about twenty.Tiiere were af that nrne in tie houte Uvolu-s and their waiting woman, # j Dutchmem, and a D nurncan fnJfr.jjlt hupper eu {hat as the young woman ofc houfe was afl.eo otmibtjn her bed.N 1 l"^'rIf r11( 14 )fhe was awaker»ed by fomethihg. that itempted to draw the cloaths off the bdHie was at flrft frighted, but thinking, up«Tecollection, that it might be the houfe dofne called him by his name: The cloathowever, were ftill polled from her, and (I!ftill imagining it was by the dog, took 1,a brufli that lay m her reach, and attempt!to ffrike him. At that moment Pnedaw a flyof bidden light that ^filled the whole rooi :upon which (he fhrieked out, at the fat*!time covering her face with the fheet: Whfne again ventured to look out, ail was daand hlent, and me cloaths were no longdr.iw-n from her. •In the morning when Pne related this (dotevery one treated it as a dream, and the ahedelf at lafl took it for granted, that it-wno more than ilkrfion.The night following (he was.again awaened by fomerhing that jogged her, and tthought flie felt a hand in the bed; upon cdeavouring to reprefs it, another fliihlightening threw her into a fit of terror; ijfruit her eyes and crolled herfelf: When IIentered to open her eves again, the lidwas vanifhed, but'in a 'Inert time Pne fwhs“ Pne flippofed to be a hand again inbed; Ihe again endeavoured to reprefsbut loo »• ^ • o.waid? ;h.e foot of the bed,faw a large luminous? crofr, on which \written diiiiruftly, as w4th light, the wob-;Jilext. She'was now fo terrified, that'Liiad not power to break the injun&ion, bnt■ he fhrunk down into the bet), and coverediaerfelf all over with the deaths.I In this iituation (he lay a considerableji|ime, and being no longer molefted. Hiei l'entured once-more to peep out when, to Iterijinipeakable aftonifhrnent, fne faw a phan-: afm ftanding by the fide of her bed, almofts high- as the ceiling, a kind of glory en-tircled its head, and the whole was in therorm of a crucifix, except that it teemed to'save feveral hands, one of which again ap¬proached the bed.j Suppofing the phtenomenon to be fomcaeleftial vifton, (he exerted all her forti-.udc, and leaping out of bed, threw herfelflijipon her knees before it.; but (Ire inflantlyjlbund hedelf airaufted in a manner whichlon'vinced her (lie was mitfaken; Pne hadlot (hrengfh to diferrgage herlclt from Some-lihing that embraced her, and thereforecreamed out as loud as (he could to alarmjhe hou(o, and bring fomebody to her a(TiPe¬nce.i! Her flnitks awakened the ladles who layp an adiment chamber:, and they feet theirI'Oman * , tee whai was the matter. • The['Oman,.upon opening the room law a lutni-■ous phantafm, which greatly terrified her,nd heard in a deep threai'ning tone thef-ords'tf/ r.ty peril btgane.| Tire woman inlfantiy icreemed our, and| rthdrew^ the iadres role, in the. utmoll con-(t6)’fternatiori and tcrro.-, but nobody came tr)their affiftance; the old man, the father othe girl, was afleep in a remote part of th<houfe: the filar alfo refled in a room at th<:-end of a long gallery in another [lory; ancthe two dutch officers were abfent on a yiftat a neighbouring village.No other violence, however,, was offeree 1*to the girl that night. As foon as the mor ><ning dawned [he got up, ran down to her fa !ther, and told all that-had happened; th' •two ladies were not long abTent, they di»not fay much, but difeharged their arrears ■and qi'i.tedthe houfe. The [riaraffied th; giiieveral queftions, and declared that he haheard other inflancss Of the like nature, bulaid the girl would do well to obey the con; ,nvmds ot the vifion, and that ho harm woolcome of it. He. laid he would remain tfee the itfue, and in the mean time iie’or idored proper prayers and tnaffes to be'fai :at a neighbouring convent of his order, twhich he moft devoutly joined his*own'.The girl was comforted with this fpiritusLaffiftance, but, notwithffandmg, took o;r■ of the maids to'be-her bedfellow the ne|night. vIn the dead of the bight the flaming cYowas again Vvi];ble, but no attempt was rnadlon either the women. .They were hoever, grcat'y’terrified, and the fetyant iailjfhe would rather leave her place than liethe room again.I -1 '    ... »— ', ( v? ) .The fri^r the ne>'t tiiotninp; took the ment! the {pirit’s peaceable behaviour to himfelf.i'he praters and maiTes were renewed, and!jpplicati.on was made to the convents of■taege for auxiliary afirftance. The goodliar in the mean time, was by no means idle• Tome; he performed his devotions with’rear ardour, and towaids evening he be-,lowed a plentiful libajian of holy water oni>e chamber and the bed.if] The girl not being able to perfuade thef rvant to fleep with her again in the haunt-1 room, and being encouraged by the fri¬ll' to abide the iffue, having alfo great con-ijdence herfelf in the prayers, mafies, andwink lings that- had been ufed on the oc-riifion, (lie ventured once more to lleep init fame room by herfelf.it 3n the nigiit, after hearing feme flightpifes, fne faw the fooHi all in a blaze, andjij great number of finall luminous crolies,it!, fertps of writing here and there very k-|.ble, among which the precept to be file nr,ps mote confpicuous.,1 In the middle of the room Tie fa-v fome-rbag of a human appearance, which leemedyvereu only with a linen garment, like asire; it appeared todiffufe a radiance roundII and at length, by a flow and filent pace,(approached tfie bed: When if came up to2 t ed-fide, it drew the currsih more open.Id lilted up the bed-cloaths was’about' toIrne in, I he girl, new more terrified than( i8 )ever,- fcreamed out v>ith all her power; a.,every body in the houfe was upon the watch i:flie was heard by them all, but the fat Iraonly had courage to go to her afliftance, an*his bravery was probably owing to a conhderable quantity of reliques, which he hat tprocured from the convent, and wmch-ljjbbrought in his hand.When he came, however, nothing was t|be feen but fome of the little CrofTes and in rfcriptions, feveral of which were now lum; |nous only in part.Being himfelf greatly terrified at thefe arpearances, he ran to the friar's apartnreriiJ *and with fome difficulty prevailed upon hiu:to go with him to the haunted room, the fritat firft cxcufed himfelf upon account of t> :young woman’s being there in bed. As fooas be entered and law the erodes, he protrated himfelf on the ground, and uttere 'imany prayers and incantations, to which t! rhoneil landlord faitl Amen.The poor girl, in the mean time, lay inkind of trance, and her father, when ttprayers were over, ran dowo {fairs for fonwine, a cordial • being neceffary to redewher; the friar, at the'farae time, ordered in¬to light and bring wtth him a confederatetaper, for hitherto they had had no light bthat of the vifion, which was tfiii ftrongnongh to’cliicover every thing in tire roomIn a (bore time the old man entered withtaper in his hand, an$l in a moment all it( '9 )iMnous appearances vanifbg^. T!ie ^irl,n afier, recovered, and gave a very len-:je account of all tliat I’ad happened, and■| landlord and the friar (pent the reft oflj night together..ilfhe. friar, however, to fhew the power of the;rmon and the^holy vn-tue of the‘taper, re-ved it feveral times trom t e chamber be-the day broke, and the croftls and in-Ip1 ions were again viiilfle, and remainedHill the taper was brought beck, and then’illted as at firft.Vhen the fun arofe, the friar took his leavei^o to' Mattins, and did not return tillin. In the mean time the two Dutch of-ijjrs came home, and saon learnt what hadopened, though the landlord took all thejibs', he could to conceal it. The reportsb heard were confirmed by the pale andified appearance of the girl; their curio-< was greatly excited, and they afked heriumerable queftions.fer answers, inftead of extinguiftiing, in-jised it: They alfured the landlord that/ would nOt leave his house, but, on theScOntrary, would afford him all ihe affift-|e in their power.j;$ they were young gentlemen of a militarybdfinn, and Proteftanrs, t'.iey' were at. e bold and incredulous. Ti!ey pretend-■owever, to adopt the opinion ot the land-, that the appearances were supernatu-ll-but it*happened t: T- upon going, into( 20 ^ . !|tLe room they found the remainder of tf jtaper, on the virtues of which the landlofrh;.d largely expatiated, and inimediat<| fperceived that it was only a common can | [of a large fize, which he had brought t.miflake in his fright.This dilcovery convinced them that the, |was a fraud; and that appearances that v |niO'ied at the approach ot unconfecrated lig !“were produced by mere humane artifice, iThey therefore con.ulted'togetht r, andlength >greed that the mafTes (hould be coytinned, that the landlord ihould fay not o Jword of the candle, or the fufpicions it h iproduced: that his daughter, the next nigilIfeould deep in the apavtm'fcot which hbeen quitted by the ladies, and that onethe officers (hould lie in the girl’s bed, whthe other, with the landlord Ihould waitthe kitchen to fee the jlfiie.This plan was acqordiugly, with greatcrecy, carried into execution.For two hours after the officer had be.in bed, 'all was blent and quiet, and he tgan to Uifpecl that the girl had beenianciflor that ti>nr fecrct had tianfpired; when |on a fudden he heard the latch of the dogently railed, and perceived fomething :proach the bed and attempt ro t:-.ke upcloaths; lie refuich with fufficient flrcnjto ftudrafe the attempt, and i nmediatelyroom appeared to be ail in a flame; hemany, erodes and y leapt ionsHr.ii. ungnee, und a paffive acquiefccnce in wbate-;r (bonld happen} be law aifo in the mid-■ e ot the room lomething of a' humane ap^liarance, very tall and very luminous. The/leer was at firft ftruck with terror^ antf the(llion made.a fecond approach to the. bedJe, but the gentleman recovering his forti-de the firft moment of reflection, dexte-::ufly threw a flip knot which he had fallenedlone of the bed pofts, over the phantom’slick, he inftantiy drew it dole, whichought him to the ground, and then tinewmfclf upon him; the fall and the ftruggleit tie to much noife that the other officer andje.landlord ran up with the lights and weahns, and the goblin was found tobe no otherisn the go'od friar, who having conceivedjmething more than a Spiritual affedio'n.foris landlord’s pretty-' daughter, had playedj-iis infernal farce to gratify his paflion.It appeared that this fellow, who was near: feet high, had made hinlfcU appear flillgher, by putting upon his head a kind ofra of imbbfl'td paper, and had alfo thri.fl:flick through the flecves of his habit,rich formed an appearance of a crofs, and11 left his hands at liberty; and that he.d rendered Ifinrftif and his apparatus vifi-Je in the dark by. phofphouis.I* -V■( 22, )Anvthir— From the life rf J. Latkbigfsn, Boek/eh [.AT V\ ilkfcome, nine miles from T;n'ton, a gentleman famaei’s IkhiIc walartaed every night between twelve and ao’cTock. The chamber doors were throjopen, the bed .cloths pulled off the be«and the kitchen furniture thrown with vlence about the kitchen, to the c-reat tenof the family, infomuch that tjie fervaigave their mailer and mifhefs warning!leave their places, and ibmeofthem adluly quitted their fervice. This dreadful jfair had laded about fix weeks, wheniyoung gentleman who was thereon a vilbeing in bed one night, at the ufual hourheard his chamber door thrown open, ancvery odd noife about his room. He wasfiift frightened, but the noife continuimlong time, he became calm and laid Itrevolving what he had !*eft do. When onfudden he heard die fpirit creep tinderbed, which was immediately lifted up, lThis convinced him that th^re was fo; rfubftar ce in die fpirit; on which he leapout of bed and fecured the door, and whis oaken ftaff belaboured the ghoft tintthe bed as hard as1 he could, until he her Ia female voice imploring for mercy. Mthat he opened his chamber door, and clled aloud for a light. The family all got Has faft as pofiible, and came to his roomthen informed fhem that he had got the fI 23 ; .: under the bed; on bearing which, mofli f them were terribly frightened, and wouldrive run off fafter than they came, but helured them, they had nothing to fear: thenit he dragged the half murdered fpirit.pin under the bfcd. But how great wasieir furprile and ihame, when they difeo-:.|ied that this tormenting devil was no"jber than one ol their lervant girls, about:teen years of age, who had been confinedher bed Itveral months by illnefs.Another—From the fav:e. 'PHIS ghoft was no looner laid, than two'others alarmed the neighbourhood;e of which for a long time fhook a houfeiiery night, and terribly, diftreffed the fa«-dy; at length they all refolved one night,igo over the whole houfe in a-body, andp what itwas that fo agitated the building.Iliiey examined every room; but in vain, ascaufe could be difeovered. So they veryfioufly as well as unanimoufiy concluded,it it mu ft bt the devtLiBur about a fortnight after this, one of thefnily being out late in the garden, faw aat boy get in at the window of an oldife next door, (part of which was inns) and foon after the houfe began toIke as ufual, on which the family went outtheir own habitation and entered the oldlife where the boy was feen to get in; yeti a long tirpe they could aot diicov&r any(. 24 )perfon, and were juft turning Co q~?v.c ojagai» , wi en one ot the. company obleivthe boy ever their head, finding over thend ot a large beam that ran accrois bnthouses.It was thee apparent that the violent agtation of the adjoining houfe was oceafionfby nothing more than his /leaping up ardown on the unfuppontd end of this beatAnother—from the fame.ANOTHER apparition had for a lot*time fiole many geefe, turkeys, &and although it bad been feen by many,nobody would venture to go near it: uiat length one perfon a little wifer than treft of his neighbours-, feeing the famous iparitipn allover white ftealmg his fowfts, ydetermined to be fully fatisfied what kind!afpirtt it could be that had fb great apreiittftion for poultry, hie accordingly wlround the yard, a»d as the' apparition 'Icoming over the wall, he knocked it do»|and found that this terrible ghoft \vaneighbouring woman, who had put onfbrood, in order to deter any perions Ihctiicy by chance lee her, from coming uher. Thus, though (he had for a long tlfully pradifed this new way of pn^ing poultry, the old fox wa$ caught atPrinted by G. filler, ’t unbap.