T H O U G H T SO N AFRENCH INVASION,WITH REFERENCE TO THEPROBABILITY OF ITS SUCCESS,A N D T H E ,PROPER MEANS OF RESISTING if.SY HAVILLAND LE MESURIER,' Esq/WITH EXTRACTSFROM THEBISHOP OF LANDAFFSCELEBRATED ADDRESS' T O T H EPEOPLE OF GREAT BRITAIN,'ttlli CONTAININGDbfervations on the principal objeftions of fome Mo¬dern Declaimers againflRELIGION AND GOVERNMENT.O L A S G O WPRINTED BY J. & M. ROBERTSON,Sahmarket. 1801.THOUGHTS( ^ )O N AFRENCH INVASION.TH E menace of a French Invafion, whichmerly afforded a fubjedl for ridicule, cannot now (be treated in fo light a manner. For fome time, in* ,deed, the French have reited their hopes in the accu¬mulation of our national debt, and loudly declared wefliould ultimately fall under the weight of .our financesjthey have affedled to call us a nation of brokers, anccompared the people of Britain to the inhabitants otHolland, who have facriiiced their very exitlence as s|ination to the moft fordid and the moft miftaken notiondof felf-prefervadon.In thefe hopes they truft no longer; they groan un ,der the weight of our naval and colonial fueceffes: thq|fee the valt increafe of the commerce of this nation)and they cannot but attribute it in a great degree tothe very means they make ufc of for their aggrandize:ment: they themfelves are obliged to purchale here th«luxuries and many of the neceflarLes of life; the wealtlthey have obtained by rapine, flows to this country brthe channels of trade, and France contributes by thrdrains of its fpecie to the prevention of the cataitroph:held out by its rulers as inevitable.Convinced, at length, that Britain can never wanmoney whilft carrying on the commerce of the workFrance now refolves to make a grand attempt. ThDirectory, the Legiflators, and the Generals, of tht'Thoughts on a French Invafion. 3country, make no fecret of their intentions*. When¬ever they have meditated the ruin of a country andthe deftiu&ion of its government, they have previoufly; declared it. They announced their march to Holland,! to Spain, to Italy, to Germany. Their policy is tojj terrify governments with threats, and to prepare be-j forehand the difaffefted of every country for a change.: They have already experienced the effect which mayI' be produced by this exaggerated reprefentation of theftf: power; and they have feen more than one example of| the difmay, which menaces apparently extravaganthave fl-ruck into their opponents, while in the fameproportion the exertions of their foldiers have been in¬i' ereafed by the opinion vvhicli has been inculcated intothem, that nothing can refift their armies.The General who conquered Italy is named tocommand the Army of England, and has acceptedh the trufl f. Preparations of an uncommon kind are1 oni * Decree of the Executive Directory-on the iCoth ofJ Oftofier, 1797.“ The Executive Directory decrees nub at folieivs :“ Art. I. There fhall be ajjembled ouithout delay onI “ the coafs of the tcean, an army ‘which flail be called1 “ the Army of England.1“ 2. Citizen General Buonaparte is named Comman-“ der in Chief of that Army.“ Reveiller Eepaux, Pres.“ Ligarde, Sec. Gen.”1 f “ Go, Citizen General, to crown fo glorious a lifeby a conquef which the Great Nation owes to its in-Jutted dignity ; go and punfi, in London, outrages!< which have been too long unpunijhid.”Speech of P rtf dent Burras to General Buonaparte,i\fl Nov. 1797.“ It ferns decreed that the French Republic Jhall only1‘ make peace with their enemies at their own capital-—* fend to England thoje columns which have made viftory‘ the companion of their banners.”AJJrejs of the Merchants to the Executive Direkcry,on‘Thoughts on a French Invafion.foot, new inventions are framing, and the wholpower, ingenuity, and wealth of France and its dependents, are fet on the chance of an Invafton.To thefe machinations the government of this coun¬try is no {[ranger; the extent of the danger.they canafeertain, the naval and military defence is in the befthands, and the honed mechanic, farmer, and tradef-man may purfue his habits of induftry, without anyrvafonable ground for apprehending either that hislabours flrould be interrupted, or his property takenfrom him.But fince the danger, cither real or apparent, mayfuddenly burft upon an unprote&ed part of this ifland,eg its happy inhabitants know not how to afeertain thevi(k they run under an invafion ; they may derive in-llruftion from being made acquainted with the progrefsof the enemy' in other countries, and apprized by whathuman means the fall of fo many independent andpowerful dates was effe£ted. They will be cheered atthe view of fome driking differences between thofe■dates and us, and it will prevent alarm, mifreprefen-tation, and dihnay, to ffiow every individual in thiscountry what ought to be his immediate objeft duringthe confufion infeparable from an attack.The writer begs to be undevdood as not addreflinghimfeif to thofe who have made the profeffton of armstheir ftudy, or to thofe who are affociated and embo¬died under edablifhed officers: his with is to giveyra&ical hints to the plain man, who has never feenany military fervice.It may not be known to the generality of Englifh-that when the French invaded the different coun¬men,tries of Europe, they calculated on fuffering no im¬pediment from their inhabitants, who were as quietlyploughing their land, opening and {hutting their {imps,and carrying on their traffic during the time of inva-fion, as if no enemy had been at their gates. TheFrench therefore only inquired what number of regulatroops were oppofed to them: while thefe, althouglobliged to refrain from any coercive mcafure, or ankind*of requifition, for fear of offending their own" commanding"ThoughIs on a French Invoften. 5commanding officers, ever confidered the inhabitantsthey were defending more as their enemies than their: friends. Thus the mpre populous the country, thei greater refourfe (inftead of the greater oppofition) the1 enemy found in it; and his firft meafure was to put ini xequiiition £ every article he wanted. By means ofi this fyftem of requilition, thofe perfons, who had ffiel-I -tered th'emfelves under the maik of neutrality, while[ the Combined Armies protefted them, aided and affil-| ted the French on their arrival, in the warm hope ofptirchafing by treachery an exemption from the gene-ji ral pillage.i As the enemy advanced they recruited their armyi with the difatfedfed, and raifed contributions upon the1 rich, increaling their numbers, both from the love ofplunder and the motive of fear ; but not one generous,; one patriotic llraggle againft them has been made onthe Continent by any one people or (late ; not one.government has ventured to levy its fubjedls in a mat's,ior even to organize a fyftem of defence in which thepeople had a'(hare.France poured forth her hundreds of thovtfands ona difunited coalition. While thefe were preffing in theFront, the difeontented, the diflblute, the demagogues,iihe athiefts, the Illuminati, were in the bofom of thejeountry, magnifying their numbers, extolling theirfucceffes.X /Is an Englijhman may noi le acquainted with thefull meaning of the word requifitlon, it may not be fuper-duous to acquaint him, that a French commiffary, on hisarrival at a town, or in a dijlrict, gets pojj'efjion cf thebnigif rates and principal perfons in it, whom he obliges,in pain of being inftantly hanged, to difeover every kind/ property belonging to them or others, every refourfe the\ountry can afford, and the fpeediefi mode of being put inoffcfnn of it. 'Thefe are declared to be in a fate of re-u fit ion fr the ufe of the Republic; and, as a fecurity'.hat nothing may efcape, the commijjioners have always at of rafsally informers in referee, on whofe evidence, oYbarge of prevarication, the magiflrates, or principcd: irffns, are liable to Is facrifred.6 Thoughts on a Trench Invajkn,fuccefi'es, and foretelling their near approach. Bot twith all this, in how many inftances did thefe boaftediconquerors fucceed, except by numbers? Not only af-1filled by partizans in every country they invaded, they®always had regular armies, twice or thrice the ruimberWof thofe they fought with. Poffefiing unity of aftion :ithey had to contend with allies who purfued feparaU Jinterefts, who were more jealous of each other tiiac|careful tt> oppofe the en'emy, and each of whom, aHithe French truly afierted at that time, confidercd the Imisfortune of tiie other as advantages to himfilf. Un Ider fuch circumftance* it cannot be matter of furprife [that the operations of rhe Continental Powers (houlclhave been weak and ill concerted, and the event d* lthem difallrous. They have met the ample punilh-ment of their Ihort fighted felfilhnefs. But amidfl the,gloonr which thefe reileftions fpread, a cheering lighti* derived from recolleiling the brilliant manner i:which the Britilli troops have never failed to diftinguifi jthcmfelves whenever an opportunity offered of mani !felling the fuperiority of their vaknrr. Let thofe wheextol the gallantry of our fleets, not with a view tcdifplay the glory they have fo juftly acquired, but fothe fake of"Malting the laurels gained by their conntrymen by land ; let thefe men, whether in the pay eTrance, or only afling from their own vile intaginafilions, fay, where was the boalled courage of the enem’at Lincelles, when eleven hundred Britilh Guard ,llormed a formidable work defended by fix times the?number, completely routed the enemy, and made them:felves mailers of the whole of his artillery ? Where, ithe aftion ncar.Cateau, when eighteen hundred Britifcavalry defeated their army of five and twenty thoufanmen, purfued them to the gates of Cambtay, took thergeneral prifoner, and upwards of fifty pieces of cannonWhere, at the battle of Tom r.-ay, when a fmall Britil ,brigade, under the command of General,Fox, drovback General Pichegru’s left wing, and decided thviftory. till that moment doubtful? Where, at th:fortie from Nitneguen, when fix Britifh fcsttaliormarched out in the middle of the day, threw theirfelve iThoughts in a French Invtjtott. 7felves, without firing a (hot, into the enemy’s trenches,difperfed the troops that guarded them, and after be¬ing in poffeffion of them two hours, and completelydeftroying the works, returned in perfeft order to thetown, without the enemy daring to harrafs them?Where, at the capture of'Martinique, and before the! little army of Sir Charles Grey ? Where, in the Ealtj Indies, when the enemy was dripped of every foot ofland they held there ? Strange and fatal dtlufion! that| in Britain men dtould be found to magnify the cour-1 age of our enemies, and depreciate our own at the, expence of truth.Having touched upon the advantages the Frefichderived in their progrefs on the Continent from thepeople of the country, and leaving the full confidera-tion of the fubjedt to abler pens, it is material to re¬coiled!, that the French art of war is calculated uponthe reception which their troops have hitherto met■with : aware of this, their rulers have given out thatthe Britifn are a venal people *, incapable of great1 exertions, diffatisfied with their government f, and'# divided among themfelvesIt is in fadl (however incredible to an Englifii ear,)' that they are taught to believe, that a divifion of1 twenty thoufand men, once landed, is quite adequatef to the conqueit of this country ; for they calculatethat, having once a footing in the jfland, fuch an!army might advance where it pleafed, and could eafilybe reinforced. That* See the Mejfage of the fh Jan. prohibiting EnglilhTnan;fa(hircs :“ An enemy, 'who always fly -tvhen ckfely prejfali who“ are a handful of pirates.”f Addrefs of the French merchants to the Direftory.“ Thus let the Army of England go and dictate terms“ of peace in London. And there. Republicans, you“ will alfo have auxiliaries. J There you wilt alfo find“ thofe thonjands of generous men, who have flruggleci''for a long time pafi with a view of obtaining a Aar-liamentary Reform.”Proclamation efihe Directory, 2 if Nov. 1797.'J noughts on a French Inva/icn.That twenty thoufand men are not eafily tranfport-ed in the face of a fupeiior navy, is admitted; butwithout having recourfe to balloons, to diving bells, oreven to tn on ft roue rafts, fuch a number may perhapsbe riilted in boats or fmall vefl'els, if, as we moll in-controvertibly Jcuow to be the cafe, their lives weighbut as a feather in the eftimation of their rulers.Suppofmg, then, a column or divifion fliould efcapeour fhips on paffage, and not be deflroyed by the navalpower on the coaft ; before they could land, it is in¬cumbent on every man in Britain to confider beforehand what would he the confcquence of their landing.Wherever the landing may be affefted, officers willno doubt be found who will give the bed diredtions tothe military force ; but if individuals remain ina&iveat the fpot, or if, in their hafte to efcape, they im¬pede the military operations, they will in both cafesaffifl the views of the enemy.Before our armies are affembled, the f rfl objedt withevery man muft be the driving away the cattle, the fe-curing the horfes, the carrying off the proviiions ofevery kind for man and bead, if this be done, it isimpoffible the enemy can advance; nothing will beleft him but to return to tire fea from whence he came.The women, the old men, the lick, and the help-Itfs children, are to be taken care of; hnd every indi¬vidual will no doubt affiil in procuring them an afylum ;but as to property of any kind, except provifions, itwould impede every plan of attack or defence to payattention to it.Let any one refledt on the adonifhment of the ene¬my, if, on’entering a town or village, he found holiving thing, nor any food in it.—He would dand'ap-palled, and feel conquered from that moment!So far from felting fire to the place, or plunderingthe valuables left there, he would dread being calledto account for the mifehief; and in fo new and unpre-cedented a fituation, would drive to purchale his par¬don by forbearance.'It may not.be obvious to every one, that an armycannot advance to any diflance without horfts. FortwentyThoughts on a French Inv.yhn, 9twenty thoufand men (with any degree nF artillery*ammunition, -cavalry and waggons) lix thottfand hories,at leaft, are requifite; and it is well known that theftrength of the French army confi'.ls in its artillery,which cannot be moved without horfes. The cannon,I the horfes, and the waggons, are not fo eafily wafted; i over the fea as the men; if, therefore the people ofthe country will drive away their horfes and waggons,the total deprivation of the enemy’s means will he fu-i peradded to the horrors of their folitude.j Much more care and attention may be required inorder to drive away the cattle and carry off the provi-iions, without injury to the old men, infirm womenand children, than at firft.fight may be fuppofed. Thej1 roads leading to the enemy mull be kept as clear aspofiibie, fo as to enable the armed force to advanceupon them ; and as every care will be taken to indem-11 mfy all thofe who may fuffer in their property throughtheir exertions for the common caufe, fome i> telligent|| perfofi fhould accompany every drove of cattle, everyI convoy of provinons, every detachment of helplefsj perfons; fuch a man miglit depend on being noticed: and rewarded in proportion to the care and judgementI he may difplay; as officers will be fpecially charged1 with tal£.'*hg account of, and reporting upon the pro-1 vifions and property thus prevented from affording fuf-1 tenance to our invaders.I If, inllead of retiring before the enemy, the Lnhabf-j tants of towns and villages ffiould remain, they mull'he aware that a’l tl)eir property, their dear property,<ifor which they had facrificed their honour, their con-. jfcience, and their religion, would be put in, requifi-. jtion *, their women would be compelled to receivethe embraces of the invaders, arid themfclvea wouldbev See, in a preceding note, •what French riquifitionipu’as 072 the Continent, and judge what it wo aid ‘he here,[when a loan is borrowed, and called the “ Engliflryjoan ” the premiums for which' are i< fecureil on the fuc-Yefs.of the grand operation.”1 Affpige of the Dsneffory to the Council of Fi ve Hundred!D£•* fCCa lo adt as guides asd waggoners, if not toeniifi as i-ddi,;rs, and to meet death from the bayonetsor their hrethi ->a, or from the hands of an executioner.•Such fras 'oeerj the fate of ail the countries over run. nby the modern Frertch. But alas! their inhabitants ihad not the alternative which, God be prs*fed! we |{pofftfs. They had no Blends in the rear to afford Uthem a ftieltei : they had no country to indemnify Hthem for their facrifices for the common good; no nal- |jlying point; no hope, no confidence in their own go-|vernmcnt; each family thought feparately for itfelf, and 1had no choice but to throw itfelf on the conqueror. S jLet no man flatter himfelf that he can purchafe fe- |curtly for himfelf or his property by fubmifiion. We» jiof all other people, can hope for no meicy, if we are aconquered. The governors of Fiance flop at no falfe jtreprefentations, and unworthy means of inflaming the iminds of their fubjefts. This, they tell them, is the fimine that will enrich them ail; this the country, which |1alone prevents their obtaining univerfal dominion;this, they fay, like Carthage, muft be deftroyed ; and,as if thefe motives were not fuflicient, they tax us with,cruelty to our prifoners and excite their foldierawith the war-hoop of revenge.After diltrefling the enemy, the next pointy for everyindividual to confider, is, how heft to afiift tlie armedforce, and join in the common defence. Whenevertroops are on their march towards the enemy, every [hand will furcly be adlive in procuring bread for them,'J'here our generous country-women will he found tolhare in the laurels which their hulbands, their bro¬thers, and their friends, are feeking to gather; theywill* “ Does mt England refufe fuflenance to 20,coo*• Frenchmen, whom the chance of war has delivered into“ its hands? 0 ftnnacle cf horror! No the Enghjh Min-“ iflers are not human; we can only compare them toferocious wolves accuftomed to feed on human gore,'- whcje fiornachs rejefi any other nour jhmentI.cIters of the yldminijlrators, &c. to the Councilcf Five Hundred, 3'/. Jan. 17 9 S.~r<)'jugfns on a tnn:h iMJjim; "tt55™will b? ready to provide for their refrelhitient, aadevery neceffary fupport on the march, and at everyhalt; the farmers will afiid with their teams and wag¬gons in tranfportiog artillery and forage ^ and everyone will be careful to keep the roads as clear of encum-(brances as poflible ; for that is a point of the utmoftimportance, which they -who have never feen greati movements are not fufliciently aware of.j And let not individuals fuppofe, that while they arei thus affiiling in their country’s caufe, they are injuringtheir own fortunes. As in ordinary life, “ honefty i? A“ the bed policy,” (and, God be praifed, this country'l lias not abandoned one ally, or broke its faith to anyj; people) fo in cafe of a&ual invafion, they who diitrefsthe enemy and afiid their brethren, will in fa£l be tak-! ing the mod effeftual meafures for their own preferva-tion. But they will alfo meet due remuneration fromGovernment. Proper modes are adopted, and willr be made known, for afcertaining the proportion ofj damage every individual may have fudained from mili-| tary meafures. Where property has been abandonedI for the fake of carrying off provilions, or helplefs per-fans, in preference to other articles, the owner willhave an opportunity of dating the cafe at the time,to officers appointed for the purpofe, and where he/lull have affilied the troops, thofe fame officers willbe bound to procure him the payment in due time.On the other hand, they will know and hold forth topublic execration, thofe cold blooded or traitorousj men, who at fuch a moment may withhold their fei-j vices, or counteradl the general enthufufm: and un-quedionably no live or dead dock will be paid for ifit falls into the enemy’s hands, unlefs every poffibleexertion, to fave or dedioy it, is proved to have beenI made by the owner.What then has the enemy to hope for?—he expeftsj to fluke our credit to its foundation. He does notthen fee, that by the wifed droke of policy that everj was attempted, it is no longer is his power. The| dpecie of the country centies in the Bank, and its pa-| per is now become more than ever the general mediumof'i- Thoughts ok a French Inv aft on.< f circulation. No avaricious farmer will hoard this;i of even will ftockholders venture to fell out of theiunds, l>ecaufe all deferiptions of meij know that theBank paper is merely a link in the chain of generalcredit, of which the funds are the fupport. Hen ulls, indeed, that he fuall be joined by the partizausof a Hamilton Rowan, or a Thomas Muir. Whattheir power is, the late events at the Note plainlyfhowed. Then was the time for bloody fadlion to jicar its head; but fhe fell aftounded before the Genius |of Britain;—or rather, that kind Providence, which ]lias fhowered bleflings on this country, unknown toany other nation, ancient or modern, interpofed itsprotefling. fhield, and fhovved the athriltical worldthat Bn'tain is not to be enilaved, even when a preyto civil commotions *.But* It’would very greatly indeed diminifh the Writer'sn^ddcnce in the refources of this country, if he thoughtthe fenthnents of a certain (tafs of •writers ’were in anydegree theje of the bulk of this nation. As an inflameaviong the refi:“ There are three capital fcaretrowc jufi fet up la“ proteli religion, and fecial order.—Church and King,“ French Principles, and Radical Reform."Mom. Chron. Sth jfdn. 1798.IFe may be told indeed, that it is net religion, but theformpf our ccdefiaflftalgovernment, that is here ridicul¬ed; it Jhotuld, hmvever, be remembered, that the pretendedphilofophers in France fet out from that point, and for thelengths they have gone, refer, among others, to the follow¬ing fall, ’which has lately appeared in the public papers:—“ General Danlcan (a republican general) tells us, that“ a felon, ’who had a fumed the name of Brutus, chief of arevolutionary tribunal ct Rennes, faid to his colleagues“ on Good Friday:—‘ Brothers, nve mu ft put to death this“ day, at the fame hour the counter revolutionift Chrift died, .“ that young devotee ’who v:as late!'/ csrrcfted.' And this“young lady uvas guillotined accordingly, and her corpfe“ treated •with every potable fpecies of indecent infill, to« the infinite amiftment of a vaf: multitude offpetlaton."i Thoughts or: a French Itrsa/iotr. i *But tiiough tlie Jacobin traitors will not dare to lifei-manfully as a body, it well behoves every man toi watch, left they fhould convey intelligence, or give| affiftance of any kind to an invading enemy. Be itremembered, that fuch men are parricides, and defervejS-no. more mercy than the unnatural fon who lifts his! hand againft his father.l That the French army, if ever it fhould land, will! come with erroneous opinions of the great body of thei people, and that it will meet with confufion and dif-imay at landing, in confequence of that error, is evidentfrom the declaration of their rulers; their headingsmuft to every firm mind appear ridiculous, and but forfthe wickednefs of degenerate men in our own country,jwould be perfeftly defpicabl* *.| If the writer has in any way fucceeded in guardinghoneft men againft mifreprefentation, and in (hewingMiem, from exocricnce, how heft they can diftrefs thetfnemy, and afiift in the common defence, before ourown* P re font effective force in Great Britain:2 Regiments Fife Guards,I ditto Horfo Guards, f3 ditto Dragoon Guards, £15 ditto Light Dragoons, 3126 Regiments Fencible Cavalry,32 ditto Infantry Regulars,1 z Skeleton ditto officers included, ' -U8 Regiments Forcible'Infantry,fsj ditto Militia,252 Troops Gentlnfiin and Yeomanry Cavalry,1856 Companies Volunteers,\ Supplementary Militia, ~ -[Making in the whole, effeflive men,16,160i3,i°4'I’S+v2.12411,04245.00015,1205'>5<ha60.000227,450Bfries 117 Companies LirtMery, 10 invalid ditto,59 Independent Companies of Invalids, and the Marinesn garrijen.In Ireland is a force of nearly 1 20.000 effective men.And a TRIUMPHANT NAVY!')he c) LznJat}>s JJJrejiown troops and armies can be fnppofed deciuvely taft, he has fucceeded in his defign: he is too promof his country, to doubt the readinefs of every clafof men to die for their wives, their families, their religion, their laws, and their king; and he knows, thawithout making boaft of courage inherent with theiibirth, or of an energy difplayed in every page of theirhiftory, they will ftrike home in the bofoms of theirlawlefs invaders, aflured, as they may hope to be, thatthe God of Battles is on their fide.EXTRACTSFROM THEBISHOP OF LANDAFF’S ADDRESSTO THEPEOPLE OF GREAT BRITAIN..WHATEVER doubts I formerly entertained,or (notwithlfanding all I have read or heardon the fubjeft) may (till entertain, either on the ju,'liceor the necefllty of commencing this war in which wetire engaged, I entertain none on the prefent neeiffuyand jutlice of continuing it. Under whatever cir-cumftances the war was begun, it is now become ju!i;^rnce the enemy has refufed to treat, mi equitableterms, for the reftoratipn of peace. Under whatevercircumftances of expediency or inexpediency the warwas commenced; its continuance is now become r.ecef-fary; for what necefiity esn be greater than that which,arifes from the enemy having threatened us with dtf-truftion as a nation ?With refpedt to the valour of the French troops, Ihave nothing to objeft. I know it is a favourite opin¬ionA Jion with many, that the French are now what theiranceito-rs were in the time of Casfar; “ that in the firfl“ onfet they are more than men, but in the fecond lefs“ than women.’' But it appears to me, I mall con-fefs, that in this war the French have fuflained withcourage many onfets:—praife is due to the gallantryeven of an enemy. But if I were allied, whetheran equal number of Britilh would beat thefe con¬querors of Italy, I would anfwer, as an Englilh am-.baffador anfwered a King of Pruffia, when, at a teviewof his forces, he allied the amballador, “ Whether he“ thought that an equal number of Englilhmen could“ beat his Pruffians: ’ “ I cannot till (replied theambaffador) whether an equal number would beat•“ them; but I am certain half the number would try.”—I have the firmed confidence that fifty thoufandBritifh, fighting for their wives and children, for'their liberty and property, as individuals, for the in¬dependence and conllitution of their country, would,without hefitation,. attack an hundred thoufandFrenchmen.If Ireland be the objeft of invafion, France may flat¬ter herfelf, perhaps, with the expeftation of being morefavourably received there than in Great Britain; but Itrud Ihe will be equally difappointed in both countries,I mean not to enter into the politics of Ireland; butconfidering her as a fider kingdom, 1 cannot whollyomit adverting to her fituation.I look upon Britain and Ireland as two bodies whichare grown together, with different memhets and organsof fenfe, but nourilhed by the circulation of the fameblood : whild they continue united they will live andprofper; but if they fuffer thcmfelves to be fepar^tedby the force or cunning of an enemy; if they quarreland tear themfelves afunder, both will indantly perlfh.Would to God, that there were equity and moderationenough among the nations of the earth, to fuffer fmallflatus to enjoy their independence ; but the hiflory ofthe wot Id is little elfe than the hiflory of great Ratesfacrificing final] ones to their avarice or ambition; andthe prefent defigns of France, throughout Europe,confirmconfirm the obfervation. If Ireland fo far liflchs to jiher refentment (however it has originated) againft thiskingdom: if (he fo far indulges her chagrin againft herown legiflatnre, as to feek for redrefs by throwing her-fdf into trie arms of France ftre will be undone, her |freedom will be loft, ftie will be funk in the fcale of Tnations; inllead of flourifhing under the proteftion of :a fitter that loves her, fhe will be fettered as a Have tothe feet of the greateft defpot that ever affli&ed human ;kind—to the feet of the French democracy.Let the malcontents of every nation of Europe look. Jat Holland, and at Belgium. Holland was an hire |of bees; her (hns flew on the wings of the wind to 1every corner of the globe, and returned laden with the |fweets of every climate. Belgium was a garden of jherbs, the oxen were ftrong to labour, the fields were jthickly covered with the abundance of the harveft— jufthjppy Dutchmen! You will ftill toil, but not for Iyour own comfort; you will ftill colleft honey, hilt Inot for yourfelves; France will feize tbe hive as oftenas' your induftry fhall have filled it. Ill judging Bel¬gians! you will no longer eat in fecuritv the fruits ofyour own grounds, France will find ocoafion, or willmake occafion, to participate largely in your riches;it will be more truly faid of yourfelves than of youroxen, ,c you plough the fields, but not for your own“profit!” /France threatens us with the payment of what fhecalls a debt of indemnification ; and the longer werefill her efforts to Fubdtie us, the larger (he fays tin'sdebt will become: and (he tells us, that all Europeknows that this debt mutt be paid one time or other.And does fhe think that this flourifh will frighten us?It ought, to move our contempt, it ought to fire uswith indignation, and, above all, it ought to iriftrinfievery man amnngtt us what we may expe£l, if thro’fnpinenefs, cowardice, or divifion, v>'-, fuffer her madattempt to prove fuccefsful. She may not murder orcarry into flavevy the inhabitants of the land; but un¬der the pretence of indemnification, fhe will demandmillions upon tens of millions; /he will beggar every ,rotfu,!to the People of Groat Britain. 17man of property? and reduce the lower orders to thecondition of her own peafantr.y and artificers—blackbread, onions and water.It is now fomewhat more than feventy years, fincecertain men who efteemed themfelves philofophers, andwho, unqueilionably, were men of talents, began in dif-ferest parts of the continent, but efpecially in Franceand Germany, to attack the Chriftian religion. Thedcfign has been carried on by them and others, undervarious denominations, from that time to the prefenthour. In order to accomplifh their end, they havepublished an infinity of books, fome of them diilin-j guifhed by wit and ridicule, unbecoming the vaft im-| portance of the fubjeft, and all of them fluffed withfalfe quotations and ignorant or defigned mifreprefen-| tations of fcriptnre, or filled with objcftions againfthuman corruptions of faith, and for which Chriftianitycannot be accountable.A fimilar attempt, I have reafon to believe, has for1 fome years been carrying on amongll ourfelves, andby the fame means. Irreligious pamphlets have beencirculated with great induftry, fold at a fmall price,: or given away to the lowed of the people, in every: great town in the kingdom. The prophane flyle ofthefe pamphlets is fuited to the tafte of the wdeked,land the confident affertions which they contain arev well calculated to impofe on the undei Handing of thefunlearned; and it’s among the wicked and the igno-irant that the enemies of religion and government arendeavouring to propagate their tenets.It is here fuppofed that the enemies of religion areIfo the enemies of government; but this mutt be un-erftood with fome reftri&ion. There are, it may befaid, many deitls in this-country, who are fenilble ofthe advantages of a regular government, and whowould be as unwilling as the mod orthodox believersin the kingdom that our own fhould be overturned—his may be true—but it is true alfo that they whowifii to overthrow the government are not only, gen*:rally fpeaking, unbelievers themfelves, but that theyound their hopes of fuccefs in the infidelity of thecommon18 The EijJjob of I.ardaff’ s Addrefscoir.iEon people. They are fenfible that no govern-irent can long fubfift, if the bulk of the people haveno reverence for a, fupretre Being* no fear of perjury ;no appfehenfion of futurity, no check from confcienceand forefeeing the rapine, devaftation, and b!ood/!ud,iwhich ufually attend the laft convulfions of a ftatelllruggling for its political exillence, they wiflt to pre-|pare proper aftors for this dreadftil cataftrophe, by |brutalizing mankind; for it is by religion more thanjjany other principle of human nature that men are"dif-|tinguilhed from brutes.The mafs of the people has, in all ages and countries, Jjbeen the mean of effectuating'great revolutions, both Hgood and had. The phyikal itrengih of the bulk of a|nation is irrelidible, hut it is incapable of felf-direCtion. |It is-the inilrument which wife, brave, and virtuous men|ufe for the extinction of tyranny, under whatever form I*f government it may exift; and it is the inltrumentlalfo which men of bad morals, defperate fortunes; and!licentious principles, life for the fubverfion of every go'llternment, however juft in its origin, however equitable |in its adminiftraticn, however conducive to the ends ilfor which fociety has been ellablifhed among mankind.It is againft the' machinations of thefe men, fecret or iopen, folitary or affociated, that I w’ifh to warn you;they will firil attempt to perfuade you that there isnothing after death, no heaven for the good, no hell [Ifor the wicked, that there is no God, or none who Iregards your aClions; and when you fhall be convinced!of this, they will think you properly prepared to per-fpetrate every crime which may be necefiary for tbe }furtherance of their own defigns, for the gratification!of their ambition, their avarice, or their revenge.No civil, noecclefiailicrl conftitution can be fo formed !by h uman wifdom as to admit of no improvement upon Ian increafe of wifdom; as to require r.o al'eration when Ian alteration in the knowledge, manners, opinions, and!circumftnnces of a people has taken place. But menought to have the modefly to know for what they arefitted, and the diferetion to confine their exertions tofubjeCls of which they have a competent knowledge.Tl ereto the Pec fie of Great Britan:. 19 .There is perhaps little difference in the fi-rength offfieenory, in the acutenefs of difcernment, in the foli-| dity of judgement, in any of the intellectual powers onwhich knowledge depends, between a ftatelman and a' manufacturer, between the moil learned divine and amechanic: the chief difference confilts in their talentsbeing applied to different fubjeCts. AU promote boththe public good and their own, when they aft withintheir proper fpheres; and all do harm to themfelvesand others,- when they go out of them. You wouldview with contempt a flaufman who fhould undertakej to regulate a great manufactory without having beenI brought up to bnfinefs: or a divine who fhould becomeI a mechanic without having leatnt his trade; but is not| a mechanic or manufacturer Itill more mitchievous and'ridiculous who affcCts to become a ftatefman, or tofolve the difficulties which occur in divinity ? Now,this is precifely what the men I am cautioning you a-gainft wifn you to do—they harangue you on the dif-order of our conftitution, and propofe remedies; theypropound to you fubtilties in metaphyfics and divinity,and delire you to explain them; and becaufe you arcnot prepared to do this, ov to anfwer all their objec¬tions to our government, they call upon you to rejed;religion, natural and revealed, as impoftures, and tobreak up the conftitution of the country, as an enor-| metis mafs of incurable corruption.No one, I truff, will fufptft the writer of contend¬ing that great abufes in church or Hate ought to beperpetuated, or of wjfhing that any one dogma of ourholy religion ffiould not be difeuffed with decent free¬dom (/or the more religion is tried, the more it willbe refined;) but he does contend that the faith of un¬learned Chriftians ought not to be ffiaken by lies andblafpbemies; be does contend that it is better to toler¬ate abufes, till they can be reformed by the counfebof t^se bell and wifell men in the kingdom, than tofubmit the removal of them to the frothy frequentersof ale loufes, to the difcontcnted declaimers againilour3 eflablilhment, to the miferable dregs of the nation; wherfeek for dillinCtion in public confuftoti. An an¬cient)(20 The Bijlecp of Lanaajf's AdJrcfscient fabric, may, by mere force, be defaced amithrown down; but it requires the knowledge and cau-M< tion of ari aruhitedl to beautify and repair it You areffljfenfible that the moll ingenious piece of mechanifm mmay be ipoiled by the play of a child, or broken tortpieces by the blow of an fdeot or a madman: and can ||you think tliat the machine of government, the moil||ingenious and complicated of all others, may not at SIonce be defpoiled of all its elegance, and deprived of 1all its" fcndiions, by the rtfde and bungling attempts of Hth^ unlkilful to amend its motion?X have not time to lay before you the rife and pro« jjgrefs of that infidelity with refpect to revealed religion Jl—of that fcepticifm with refpedt to natural religion— |of that infanity with refpedi to government, which Jhave, by their combined influence overwhelmed with jcalamity one of the mightiell Hates in Europe, and Iwhich menace with deflru&ion every other. I have |not time to Anew you by detailed quotations from thewritings of the French and German philofophers—that the fuperilition of the church of Rome made theminfidels—that a mifapprehenfion of the extent of hu¬man knowledge made them fceptics—and that thetyranny of the continental governments made themenemies of all governments, except of that filly fyflemof democratic liberty and equality, which never hashad, nor never can have a permanent eflabliftimeutamongil mankind.Though I cannot, in this fliort and general addrefs,enter fully or deeply into thefe matters, I may be allow¬ed to fay to thole philofophers—how has it happened ,that men of your penetration, in (hunning one vice, havefallen, like fools, into its oppofitti? Docs it follow thatJefus Cbiill wrought no miracles, becaufe the churchof Rome has pretended t3 work many ? Does ;t followthat the apoftiesare not honed men becaufe there havebeen priefts, biihops, and popes, who were hypocrites? \Is the Chriftian religion to be ridiculed as more abfurdthan Paganifm, to be vilified as lefs credible than Ma-Iiometanifin, to be reprefented as impious and abomin- ^able, becaufe men, in oppolition to every prafhee of2 1to the People of 'Great Britain.' tlie apofHes, have woriTiippec! images, prayed to deadmen, believed in tranfubftantiation, granted mdulgea'cies, #re£ted inquiiitions, and roailed honed men alivefor not complying with their fuperPiition ?With refpeft to natural religion, I would fay to them—you complain that you cannot comprehend the crea¬tion of the univerfe, nor the providence of God; andis this your tvant of ability to become as wile as yourMaker, a reafon for doubting whether there ever wasa creation, and whether there is a providence? What| fhould you think of a neft of reptiles, which being im¬mured in a dark corner of one of the lowed apartments|of a magnificent hovne, fhould affedl to argue ag#inft; the houfe having ever been built, or its being thentaken care of. You are thofe reptiles with refpedt toiyour knowledge of the time when God created, andthe manner in which he dill takes care of the world,—I You cannot, you tell us, reconcile the omnifcience ofGod with the freedom of man—is this a reafon foryour doubting of the freedom which you feel you pof-ifefs, or of the power of God to anderdand the natureiof what he has made?—You cannot comprehend howjit is pofiible for an immaterial being to be afted uponby material organs of fenfe—will you therefore deny!the exiftence of your foul as a fubdance didindl from:yourbody? do you not perceive that it mud equallyrurpafs your undertlanding how matter, a&ing uponnatter, can produce anything but motion; can giveife to perception, thought, will, memory, to all thofentelleft«al powers, by which arts and fciences are ?n-ented and indefinitely improved?With refpeft to government, I would fay to them,dmitting that there is a natural equality' amongdmankind, does it follow that there may not be, or that•.here ought not to be, an inflituted inequality ? Ad¬mitting that men, before they enter into fociety, are;ree from all the miferable arts by which men are wonto defend the dominion of each other, does it follow-hat they may not voluntarily relinquifh the liberty oft date of nature, in order that they' may enjoy thetomfort and obtain the fecurity of a date of fociety ?Can2 2 The Bijhop cf Lavdajp’s /IddrefrCan there be no jnft government, becaufe there is, andhas been much oppreilion in the world, no politicalfreedom in Great Britain, becaufe there was, duringthe monarchy, little in France; where there is, proba¬bly, (till lefs than there was? Does it follow that there8ought to be no diftinftion in fociety, with refpeft to Irank or riches, becaufe there are none in a {late of na-1tore; though nature herfelf has made a great differ-|jence amongli the individuals cf our fpecies as to health, |j]ftrength, judgement, genius, as to alt thofe powers |which, either in a ftate of nature or fociety, neceffarilybecome the caufes and occafions of the fuperiority ofone-man over another? Does it follow that rich menought to be plundered, and men of rank degraded,becaufe a few may b# found in every ftate who haveabided th'eir pre-eminence, or mifapplied their wealth?,In a word, does it follow that there ought to be no re- !ligion, no government, no fubordination amongft men,becaufe rfcligion may degenerate into fuperftition, go¬vernment into tyranny, and fubordination into flavery?As reafonably might it be argued, that there ought tobe no wine, becaufe fome men may become drunkards;no meat, becaufe fome men may become gluttons; noair, no fire, no water, becaufe thefe natural fources ofgeneral felicity may accidentally becorpe inftrumentsof partial calamity?He who perufes with attention the works of thofeforeigners, who for the laft feventy or eighty yearshave written againll revealed and natural religion, andcompares them with the writings of our Englifii deiltstowards the end of the laft and beginning or middleof the prefent century, will perceive that the formathave borrowed all their arguments and objections fromthe latter; he will perceive alfo that they are far infe¬rior to them in learning and acutenefs, but that theyfurpafs them in ridicule, in blafphemy, in mifreprefen-tation, in a bad caufe: they furpafa them too in theirmifehievous endeavours to diffeminate their principles iamongli thofe who, from their education, are lead fqualified to refute their fophiftry.Juftly may we call their reafening fophiftry, fince it iwasto the People of Great Britain, 23!was not able to convince even themfelves. One of themod eminent of them (Voltaire) who had been a theift,j| a materlalift, a diibeliever of a future date all his days,i| afked with evident anxiety a few years before hi*sI. death, Is there a God fuch as men fpeak of? Is tljerei a foul fuch as people imagine? Is there any thing tb, hope for after death? He feems to have been coniid-l ent in nothing, hut in his hatred of that gofpel whichwould have enlightened the obfeurity in which he wasinvolved, and at once difiipated all his doubts. As to; his notions of government, he appears to have been asunfettled in them as in his religious fentiments; for(though he had be^n one of the moll zealous apoftles ofliberty and equality, though he had attacked monarch¬ical governments in all his writings with great bittcr-nefs, yet he at lalt confeffed to one of the greateft|l princes then in Europe, that he did not love tie go-t| vernmiyjt of the lowed orders—that he did not wiih| the re-eliablilhment of Athenian democracy.Such are the inconfidencies of men who, by theirprofane difputation againd religion, have didurbed the1| cnnfciencts of individuals; who, by their fenfelefs1 railing againd government, have endangered the tran-<4 quility of every nation in Europe! And it is againltI fuch men I warn you.Are any of you oppreffed with poverty, difeafe, andwretchednefs? JL,et none of thefe men beguile you ofyour belief that “ God is, and that he is the rewarder“ of them that diligently feek him,”—the protestor of“ them that trud in him.”—Are any of you afflictedin mind, defpairing of mercy through the multitudeof your Cns? Let none of thefe men dagger your per-fuafion that the gofpel is true; for therein you willread that “ Jefus Ohrid came into the world to favefinners,”—repent, and the gofpel will give you confo-lation. Are any of you profperous in your circum-dances, and eafy in your confciences? Let none ofI thefe men, by declaiming againd defeats in our con-dilution, or abufes in government, betray you into anopinion that, were the prefent order of things over¬turned, a, better might, by thetr counfcls, be eltabliffl-24 Bijhop of I,and iff’j Addrefs, is'c.cri; for, by their counfels, you would either be plun-* dered of your property, or compelled to become theiraccomplices in impiety and. iniquity. See what hashappened in France to all orders, to the common peo¬ple as well as to the nobility. “ The little finger of |“ their republic has become thicker, more opprefiive ['to the whole nation, than the loins of their mo-“narchy; they were chaftifed with whips, they are ;“ now chaftifed with feorpiens.”1 am not altogether inienfible of the danger I rr.syhave incurred, (ftrould matters cone to extremity),by thus publicly addrefting my countrymen. I mighthave concealed my fentimejits, and tvaited in retire¬ment till the ftruggle had been over and the iftueknown, but 1 difdain fafety accompanied with diftion--our. When Hannibal is at the gates, who but a pol¬troon would liften to the timid counfels of neutrality,or attempt to fereen himftlf from the calamity comingon his country by/hulking as a vagabond amid themountains of Wales or of Weitmoreland ? I am ready,and 1 am perfuaded that I entertain a juft confidencein faying, that hundreds of thoufands of loyal and hb-neft men are as ready as I am, to hazard every thingin defence of the country.I pray God to influence the hearts of both fides togood will, confideration, and peace ; to grant to curenemy grace to reUmi to a due fenfe of piety and abelief in uncorrupted Chrillianity; and to imprefs ourown minds with a ferious fenfe of the neceffity of fo irepenting of our fins and fo reforming our lives, asmay enable us to hope for his protedbion againft all Jenemies foreign and domeftic.FINIS.GLASGOW,Printed by J. & M. Robertson, Saltmaf.uet, iSof.