THESURPRISINGGIRL.Who was caught wild in the woods ofChampagne, a Province in FR \ NCE.Containing a true and faithful Nar¬rative of many curious and imerestmgparticulars respecting this wonderfulPhenomenonTRANSLATED FROM THE FRENC^f.THESAVAGE GIRL*evening, in the ironth of Sep»i>^tember, 1731, a girl of hue or tentyears old, being pressed -»s it wouldseem, by thirst, entered about the t .vi. Ilight into Songi, a village four or rive jleagues south of Chalons in Champagne, ‘a province in France. She had nothingon her feet, her body was covered withrags of skins, her hair with a gourd leaf,and her face and hands were as blackas a negro's. She was armed with ashort baton, thicker at one end than the Iother, very like a ci b. Those who firstobserved her, took to their heels, cryingout. There is the dev.l! And indeed, herdress and colour might wed suggest thisidea to the country people, and happiestwere they who could soonest secure theirdoors and windows j But one of themthinking that the devil was afraid ofdogs, set loose upon her a bull dog withan iron collar- The little savage seeinghim advance in a fury, kept her groundwithout flinching, and grasping her littleclub with both hands, stretched herselfto one side, in order to give greater scope ito her blow j perceiving the dog within3her reach, she discharged such a terribleblow on his l.eaa as laid him dead at herfeet. Elan d with her victo>), she j mp-ed several times over the dead fcarc »se ofthe dog Then she tried to open a door,which not bei ^ ab?e to effect, she ranback into ’h i conntr« towards a nv r3and mourning a tree fed fast asleep.A Fre c ■ nobleman happetud to betht n at Ids c iuntry liomo (mSont’i. wherehaving hoard varus accounts of thelittle savage that had ajpenied tn* hisgrounds, he gav-* orde s to ce’eh So ;and pa-tiedariy i‘j tin shepherd., ^.hohad discovered her fi>st in a viney-ard.One of the country people by a verysimple thought, but which .vas att'ibi tedto uis great knowledge oi the mamersand customs of savages, c* j^c,tiredthat she was thirsty, and the-eh-ic heplaced a pitcherfu of water at the t »otof the tree on which s t was sitting. She* aft er looking sharply arcurto to see wbe-j ther any body observed her, came down,and went to d ink at the p. c ttr. piirng-ing her chin into the water ; but ^ome-ihing having startled her, sue regainedthe top of the tree before they had timeto appiehend her. This first stratagemhaving failed, the same person again ad»4vised to piace a woman and some chil¬dren near the tree, because savages com¬monly are not so shy of them as of men ;and fee bade them, above all, st ow her afriendly air, and a smiling countenance.His directions were complied with ; awoman, with a child in her arms, camewalking near the tree, carrying differentsorts of roots and two fishes in her hands,which she held out to the savage, whodescended a branch or two to be at them,but went back again. The woman stillcontinued her invitation with an affableand pleasant countenance, accompaniedwith all the possible signs of friendship,such as laying her hand upon her breast,as if to assure her that she loved her,and would do her no harm, the savagewas at last emboldened to come downthe tree, and receive the roots and fishes;but the woman then enticing her fromthe tree, by retiring insensibly, gavetime to the men who were lying in wraitfor her, to advance and seize her. Shenever mentioned any thing of the griefand anxiety she felt on being taken, norof the efforts she made to escape ; butwe may easily imagine both. The shep¬herd, and the rest who had caught andbrought her to the castle, cairied her5rirst into the kitchen, till M. d’Epinofshould be informed of her arrival. Thefirst thing there that appeared to drawher attention, was some fowls which thecook was dressing; at these she flew withsuch amazing agility, that the astonishedcook beheld one in her teeth before heimagined she had reached it. M. d*-Epinoy arriving in the mean time, andseeing what she was eating, caused giveher an unskinned rabbit; she instantlystripped off the skin, and devoured it.Those who considered her then, wereof opinion that she was about nine yearsof age. She seemed black, as 1 have al¬ready said ; but it appeared, after wash¬ing her several times, that she was na¬turally white, as she still continues. Theyobserved likewise, that her fingers, andiu particular her thumbs, were veryI large, in proportion to the rest of heri hand, which was otherwise neat enough :! and to this day, her thumbs, retain some¬what of that largeness. By her account,these large strong thumbs were very use¬ful to her during her wild life in thewoods; for, when she had a mind to passfrom one tree to another, if the branches' of the two trees were but at a small dis¬tance, and though of no greater thick-/ *oaess than her linger, she would place herthumbs on a branch of the tree in whichshe happened to be, and by their meansspring to the other, just like a squirrel.From this we may judge of the strengthof those thumbs of hers, which were ablein this manner to sustain the wholeweight of her body in springing. Shewas committed to the care of the shep¬herd, who dwelt near the castle, and re¬commended by M. d’Epinoy to his ut¬most care, who promised to reward himhandsomely for his pains. We may wellconceive that it would require a consi¬derable deal of time, and some hard usageto wean her from her former habits, andto temper her fierce and savage disposi¬tion ; and there is reason to believe shewas ver> closely confined in this house,for she fouiid means to make holes inthe walls, and iu the tiles of the roof,upon which she would run with as muchunconcern as upon the ground, neversuff ring herself to be retaken withouta gr-at deal of trouble, and passing soartfuliy through small holes, that theycoulu scarcely believe their eyes, afterthey had seen her do it. It was thusthat she escaped once, among severalother times, out of this house, in a mostsevere storm of frost and snow; on whichoccasion, after making good her escape,she betook herself to a tree for shelter.The confusion which the family wasthrown into was great, who, after seaich-ing the house to no purpose, resolved atlast to look for her without, where theyfound her perched on the top of a hightree; from whence, however, they werelucky enough to prevail on her to comedown.I myself have been an eye-witness tosome instances of her ease and swiftness,than which nothing could be more sur¬prising ; and yet what I saw was butthe remains of her former agility, whichlong sickness, and the want of practicefor many years, had greatly impaired.Without having seen it, it is hardly pos¬sible to imagine her singular and agilemanner of running ; even for severalyears after she was caught, she couldovertake the game in the chase.Madamoiselle le Blanc, the name bywhich sht is now called, rememberedperfectly well, her naving passed a river,two or three days before she was taken,and we shall see by and by, that this isone of the most certain facts of her his¬tory. She was then accompanied by8another black girl, a little older thanherself; but whether that was her na¬tural colour, or whether she was onlypainted, like le Blanc, is uncertain.—They weie swinrming a cross a river, and(living to catch fishes when they wereobserved by a gentleman of that neigh¬bourhood, who, seeing nothing buttheir heads, now and then, appearingabove the water, mistook them, as hesays himself, for two water-cocks, andfired at them from a good distance.—Luckily, however, he missed them, butthe report made tnem dive and retirefarther off'.i lie little le Blanc, on her part, had ah each hand, and an eel in her teeth.■; having gutted and washed them,the , ate, or rather devoured them. Whentheir repast was finished, they directed'theii course into the country, having leftthe i ver at their back. Soon after, leBlanc perceived a chaplet on the ground,which, no doubt had been dropt bysome person. Being apprehensive lesther companion should deprive her ofthis little treasure, she stretched out herhand to take it up, upon which the o-ther, with her baton, struck her so severea stroke on the haim, that she lost the$ _ •use of it for some time. She had, how*ever, so much strength left, with theweapon hi her hand, to return the blowon tu** forehead of her antagonist, withsuch a force as to '.neck her h> o? groundscreaming frightfully. Coe cil. nh t wasthe reward of her victory, of which shemade herself a bracelet, douched, inthe mean time, with compassion for hercompanion, whose wound hied verymuch, she ran in search of frogs, avidiimting one, stripped off its skin with hernails, and covered the wound. After thisthey seperated, she that was woundedtaking the road towards the river, andthe victorious le Blanc towards Songi.There is much uncertainty as to whathappened to tnese two children, previ¬ous to their arriving in Champagne ; leBlanc’s memory, on that head, beingvery indistinct and confused. I shallrelate, however, every particular I havebeen able to learn from her, from whichI shall endeavour to form some probableconjectures about her native country,and the adventures that may havebrought her into Champagne. But toreturn to her history.The squeaking cries she uttered throughher th roat were very frightful. The most( 10 )terrible of all were uttered by her on theapproach of any unknown person, withan intention to t'lke hold of Iitr, atwhich she discovered a horror that ap¬peared altogether extraordinary. Of misshe once gave a strong instance. A manwho had heard of her abhorrence ofbeing touched, resolved nevertheless toembiuce her, in spite of the danger thathe ran, in going too near her, 3he hadin her hand, at the time, a piece of rawbeef, which she was devouring with greatsatisfaction. The instant she saw theman near her, in the attitude of takinghof l of her arm. she gave hira such avi - rnr str >ko on the face, both with herhand, and the piece of flesh, she held init, that he .vas so stunned and blinded,as to be scarcely able to keep his feet;the - vage, at the same time, believingthe strangers, around to be so many ene¬mies, who intended to murder her, ordreading, perhaps, punishment for whatshe had done, sprung out of their handstowards a window, through which shehad a view of the trees and a river, intend¬ing to jump from it, and so make herescape *, which she would certainly havedone, if they had cot again caught holdof her.11She appeared particularly fond of fish,either from her natural taste, or fromher acquiring by constant practice, fromhei childhood, the faculty of catchingthem m the water with more* ease, thanshe couhi the wild game by speed offoot. She retained this inciimtion forcatching fish in the water two- yearsalter her capture. One day happeningto be brought to the castle of Songi, sheno sooner perceived a door open whichled to a large pond, than she immedi«ately ran and threw herseif into it, drestas she was, swam round all the sides ofit, and landing on a small island, wentin search of frogs, which she eat at lei¬sure. This circumstance puts me inmind of a comical adventure which M»le Blanc told me herself.When any company visited M. d’Epi-noy at Song», he used to send for thegirl, who soon became more tame, andbegan to discover much good humour,and a softness and humanity of disposi-tion, which the savage life she had beenobliged to follow for self-preservation,had not been able to efface* One dayas she was present at a great entertain¬ment in the castle, observing none ofthe delicacies she esteemed, every thingISbeing cooked, she ran out like light¬ning, and traversing all the ditches andponds, returned with her apron full offrogs, which she spread very liberallyon the plates of all the guests, and wasquite overjoyed at having found suchgood cheer. We may easily figure toourselves the confusion and bustle thisoccasioned among the guests, every oneendeavouring to avoid or throw awaythe frogs that were hopping all about.The iittle savage quite surprised at thesmall value they seemed to set on herdelicate fare, carefully gathered themup, and threw them back again on theplates and table. The same thing hashappened several times in different com¬panies.It w'as with the utmost difficulty tha:they put her off eating raw flesh, amby degrees reconciled her to cookedvictuals. The first trials she made toaccustom herself to victuals drest withsalt, and to drink w-ine, cost her herteeth which, together with her nails,were preserved as a curiosity. She re¬covered, indeed, a new set of teeth, justlike ours, hut hurt her health, which con¬tinues to be extremely delicate. Therewas but little probability of preserving13her alive, her best state of health beinga sicklv languor, which seemed to becarrying her to the grave. A physicianwas sent for to see her. who being ata loss what to prescribe, hinted, that itwas necessary to indulge her now andthen with a bit of raw flesh. Accor¬dingly they gave her some, but she could,by that time, onh chew it, and suck theblood out of it, which relieved her Itwas with great trouble that she began torecover, and accustom herself to cookedvictuals. She. was then placed in a con¬vent at Chalons, where she began toimprove, and be pretty expert in sever,al female works, and her educatioa.She had lived some years in that con-vent, and had applied for permission toassume the veil; but conceiving a dis¬gust at the house, and being ashamed tolive with people who had seen her inher wild state immediately ‘kfter she wascaught, and when uncivilized, she ob¬tained leave to remove ter a con vent atSt. Menehold. She did not remain longhere, the Duke of Orleans taking herunder his protection, brought her toParis, placed her in the convent of theNovelles Catholiques, in the street ofSt. Anne, and went thither himself to see14,and converse 'with her, that he mightknow what progress she had made inher education. Being afttrwards re¬moved to another convent, still underthe protection of that prince, she fellfrom a window, and receiving a violentstroke on the head, occasioned a longdisorder which attacked her. Her hiewas despaired of, but by the kindassistance of her noble patron she wasconsiderably relieved. It is impossibleto express the melancholy reflections ofthis unhappy girl, on being, bj the deathof the prince, left weak and languishing,without either relation or friei.d to takecare of her among these strangers ; atthe same time, in case of her recovering,she foresaw what neglect, and how manymortifications she must undergo, frompersons who had no prospect of beingrepaid their advances on her account.It was in these disagreeable circum¬stances that I saw her the first time,in November 1752. They hardly weremended, when ie Blanc had recoveredas much strength as to be able to comeherself to tell me, that the Duke of Or¬leans, the inheritor of bis father’s vir¬tues, had undertaken to pay the ninemonths board that had fallen due for15her since h*s father’s death, and that shehad besides some reason to hope to beput on that orinces list, for a yearlypension of 200 livres for life ; addingat ihe same time, that until this lastpoint should be settled, which could nothappen till the month of January fol¬lowing, she had accepted of a smallapartment, which a person had offeredher. But how, says I, do you proposeto subsist in this apartment for twomonths, and perhaps more, in your sick¬ly condition. For what purpose, (an¬swered she, with a firmness and confi-dence that surprised me,) hath Godbrought me from among wild oeasts,and made me a Christian ? Not surelyafterwards to abandon and suffer me toperish for hunger j that is impossible ;I know no other father but him, hisprovidence will therefore suppoit me.This ingenious reply, compensates forthe pains 1 have taken to compose thisrelation which I shall conclude withsome of her own observations with re¬gard to the first part of her life.She has no remembrance of her pa¬tents, or any other person, and scarce¬ly the country itself) except that theyhad no houses, but holes in the ground :16that she frequently mounted trees toavoid wild beasts; and that her countrieswas covered with snow ; that when theywere Carried away by the ship t:r> ac¬count of some attempts-* hey mule toiescape, the two little savages were ccn-ffined in the hold of the ship; but tnisiprecaution bad ikt to have proved fatai|jboth to them and the Ship’s companyfor here they termed a scheme of|scratching a hole in the ship with theirnails, by which they might make theirescape into their favourite element, thewater. The crew, however, luckily dis¬covered their operations, in tiu e to pre¬vent them, and escape shipwreck. Thisattempt made them chain the two littlesavages, so as to put it out o1 their pow¬er to attempt the like again.It appears that after the escape of thetwo children from the shipwreck, beingthen incapable of any other view's thanthose of liberty and self preservation,they pursued no other rout than chanceand necessity presented. At night, ac¬cording to le Blanc, they saw more dis¬tinctly than in the day, (which, how¬ever, must not be understood literally,though her eyes do still retain somewhatof that faculty,) and travelled about in17search of fodd. The small game whichthey catched, and the roots of trees weretheir provisions. The trees were like¬wise their beds, or rather their cradles,for they slept soundly in them either sit¬ting or riding on some branch, sufferingthemselves to be rocked by the winds,and exposed to the inclemency of theweather, without any other precaution,than securing themselves with one hand,and using the other by way of a pillow.The largest rivers did not stop theirjourney by day or by night, for they al¬ways crossed them without any dread.Sometimes they entered for the sake ofdrinking, which they performed by dip¬ping in their chin up to the mouth, andsucking the water like horses. But. theymost frequently entered the rivers tocatch the fish they saw at the bottom,which they brought on shore, to open,skm and eat them.Having hinted to Mademoiselle leBlanc, the difficulty I had to believe itpossible for her to make her way out ofa deep river, in the way she mentioned,without the assistance of her hands andbreath ; she assured me, that withoutsuch assistance she always mounted to|the surface, a very little breath being18sufficient for that purpose, having givenan example only four years ago. Ofthis she shewed me the way, standingupright, with both arms held straightup, as if holding something above thewater, having the end of her handker¬chief between her teeth, like a fish breath¬ing at the same time softly, but withoutstopping, with each corner of her mouthalternately, as a smoaker breathes withone side of his mouth, while he holdshis pipe in the other. In this way, byle Blanc's account, she and her compa¬nion passed the Marne in their way toSongi, where she was taken, as abovementioned.In the year 17^5, she was in a poorstate of health, having lost all her ex¬traordinary bodily faculties, and havingnothing of the savage, but a certain wild¬ness in her look, and a great appetite.The foregoing Narrative was drawnup under the immediate inspection ofAl.de la Condemine, a French gentleman,whose curiosity and accuracy, in mattersof this sort, is universally known, andwho had a particular acquaintance withMadamoioselle le Blanc. It bears thehighest marks of truth and authenticity,19but if any doubts remained, the factscould be attested by living witnesses.The woman herself was alive in the year1765, when the translator and a Scotsgentleman, then at Paris, had severalconversations with her. To these twogentlemen she related the following par¬ticulars —That she remembered thecountry she came from was very cold,covered with snow a great part of theyear-    That the children there are ac¬customed to the water from the momentof their birth, and learn to swim as soonas to walk —That they are taught veryearly to climb trees % and a child of a yearold there, is able to climb a tree.—Thatthe people live in little huts above thewater, like beavers, and subsist chieflyby fishing. She herself was so muchused to water, that when she came toFrance, she could not live without it, andwas m use to plunge into it over headand ears, and to continue in it. swim¬ming about and diving like an otter,or any other ampbibous animalShe supposes she was only about sevenor eight years of age when she was car¬ried away from her own country ; yetby that time, she had learned to swim,to fish, to shoot with the bow and arrow,20to climb, and to leap from the tree toanother, like a squirrel. She was takenup at sea, where she wras with other chil¬dren, set in a little round canoe, whichwas covered with a skin, that drew abouther middle like a purse, anti preventedthe water from getting in ; for she says,it is the manner in her country, to putthe children early to sea, in suchcanoes, in order to accustom them tohear the sea breaking over them, which,though it may overturn the canoe, does .|not sink it. When she was taken up,she was put aboard a great ship, carriedto a warm country, and sold as a slave ;the person who sold her having fiistpainted her black, with a view to makeher pass for a negro.She says further of the country fromwhence she was taken away, that the*» •people there had no cloathing but skins,and made no use of fire at all, so thatwhen she came to France, she could notbear the fire, and hardly even the closeair of a room, or the breaths of personswho were near her» There were, she^ays, another sort of men in this coun¬try, who were bigger and stronger thanher people, and all covered with hair;and those people were at war with herXI21people, and used to eat them when theycould catch them.in the hot country to which she wasfirst carried, she says, she was re-em-barked, and performed a very long voy¬age, during which, the master, to whomshe had been sold, wanted to make herwork, particularly, at a sort of needle¬work ; he beat her, but her mistress,who she thinks spoke French, was verykind to her. That the ship having beenwrecked, the crew took to their boat; but .she, and a negro girl that was on board,were left to shift for themselves. Thenegro girl, she says, could not swim sowell as she, but she kept herself aboveiwater, by taking hold of le Blanc’s loot,iiand in this way they both got on shore.They then traversed a great tract ofcountry, commonly travelling all night,and sleeping in the day time on the topsilof trees. They subsisted upon the rootswhich she dug out of the ground withiher fingers, and particularly her thumbs,'which by that, and by the use she made!:of it in climbing, and leaping from oneitree to another, was much larger thandthe thumbs of other people. They alsoilcatched as much game as they could,'which they ate raw with the warm blood22in it, in the same m»nner as a hawk, owild beast does; and she remembers particutarly, that they killed a fox, of whicthey only sucked the blood, finding thflesh very disagreeable.She had, when she was caucht at Songijjlithe bludgeon above mentioned, wiiicshe wore in a pouch by her si e; and, bsides, she had a longer stick, with thrpieces of iron at the end of it, one in tmiddle sharp and pointed, and the ;thtwo upon tne sides hooked ; and the umade of it, was to stab any wild beathat attacked her, with the sharp poir:and with the hooks she assisted herself iclimbing trees, by catching hold of thbranches; and she says it was particilarly useful to her in defending heagainst the bears, when they attempteto follow her up the trees. This weaposhe says, she brought with her from thhot country, but the other from her owrFrom the above particulars, whichlearnt from her owu mouth, I thinkam able to fix wdth some certainty upothe country of which she is a native. Sbhas been supposed to be of the Esqu:maux nation ; but there is sufficienproof to refute this notion, for she is ca fair complexion, a smooth skin, anf,23features as soft as tlios?) of an European ;Whereas the people of the Esquimauxnation are by the accounts of all tra¬vellers, the ugliest of men, of the harshestand most disagreeable features, and allc overed with hair. She is certainly notmistaken in the situation of the countrywhich she gives, for it is certainly a verycoll country ; and the people which shedescribes as living in the neighbourhoodof her nation, can be no other than theEsquimaux *, and when we add to this,what travellers tells us of a certain raceof people who are far, of smooth skins,and soft features, living in the countryof Labrador, upon the East side of Hud¬son^ bay, in the neighbourhood of theEsquimaux ; we can hardly doubt butthat Mademoiselle le Blanc is one of thatrace of people, and that her native coun¬try is the coast of Hudson’s bay, con¬siderably to the north of Nova Scotia,the principal of the British settlementsin North America,Extract from the Baptism Register oftheParish Church of St. Sulphce, of thetown of Chalons, in Champagne.The 16th, day of June, in the year1732, was baptised by me, after sub-24scribing Priest, Canon-Regular, Prior,Curate of St. Sulplice of Chalons, inChampagne, Aiarie Angelique Memmie,aged about eleven years, whose parentsare unknown, even to the girl herself,who has been either born in, or tran¬sported when very young to some islandin America, from whence, by the dispo¬sition of a merciful providence, havinglanded in France, and being still con¬ducted by the same goodness of God,into this diocese, has been, at last, placedunder the patronage of our illustriousbishop, in the Hospital General of St.Maur, into which she entered the 28th.of October last ; her god-father beingM. Memmie, le Moine, procurator of thesaid hospital; and her god-mother, Da-moiselle Maiie-Nicola d*Halle, gover¬ness of the same hospital ot St. Maur,who have attested the day and year asabove. (So signed) Memmie le Moine,D.Halle.—F. Conterot, Chanoinberg,Prieur, Cure.I, afUr-subscribing priest, canon re¬gular, curate of St. Sulplice. do certifythe present extract to be agreeable toits original. Delivered at Chalons, this21st of October, 1750——^Signed)D. SA1S, Prieur, Cure.FINIS.