T H *Scots "Piper's Queries :Oil,John Falkirk’s Caraches.TO WHICH JS ifeDBi),His Comical and Witty Jokes,.Vhen i« Gourtlhip with an old Fiddler'sWidow, who wanted all the teeth. Witha copy of a Love Letter he fent to her,who was commonly called Flinging Betty.Old John Piper if you defire,Ta read at leifure by the fire ;Imll pleafe bairns and keep them huabinjx, ’Jnd nurd the Auld Goodwife o'er dajing.CONCLUDING WITH THEQUAKER AND THE CLOWNA WONDERFUL TALE.Edinburgh : Printed by J. Morre n.This Catechifm -defervcs no Creed,It’s only for boys who will not readOn wifer books them to inftruS 1Let droll John their fancy cook.The Scots Piper’s Queries, he.Qs is'the .wifdl .behaviour ofignorant perfons?To fpeak of nothing but what theykjiow, and to .give their opinion of nothingbut wh at they underhand.Q. Whattimeis afcoldingr wife at thebeft?A, When Ihe is faft afltep.Q. What time is a Icolding wife at thevyortt; .A. When flte is that wicked as to tear thehair out of her own head, when fhe can’ t getat her neighbour’s, and through perfect fpitebites ber own tongue with her own teeth:my hearty wifhis, that all fuch wicked vi¬pers may ever do lb.Q. What is the effectual cure and infalli¬ble remedy for a fcolding wife ?A. The only cure isto get out of the hear¬ing of her, but the infallible remedy is to nailher tongue to a growing tree, in the begin-ing of a cold winter night, and fo let it ftandtill iun-rifmg next morning fhe 11 become oneof the peaceablell woman that ever lay by aman's fide.Q. Wh't time of the year is it that thereare moft holes open?A. In harvtll when there are ftubles.Q. At what time is the cow- heavieft ?A. When the bull is on her back.Q. Who was the goodman’s mcckle csw’acalf’s mother. \A-. None but the muckle coW herfelf.Q. What ia the likeft thing to a man anda horfe ?,A. A taylor and a mare.Q. What is the hard.eft dinner that evera taylor laid bis teeth to ?A. His cwn goofe tho*'never fo well boif-ed and roafted.Q. How many toads tails will it take toreach up to the moon ?A. One if it be long enough,Q. How many flicks gangs to the biggingof a craw’s neft ?, A, None, lor they are ail carried.How many whites will a well madepudding-prick need ?A. If it be well made it needs no more.Who was the father of Zebedee’s chiUA. *Who but himfelf (Q. Where did Mofes go when he was fallfifteen years old ?A, Into his fixteenth.q. Hgvt near related is your aunty*sgood brother t© you ? JA. No nearer than my own father.Q; How many holes are there in a htn soTr- , "(doupiq. How prove you that ?A There is one for the dung and anoth¬er for the egg.q. Who is the belt for catching rogues?A. None fo Et as a rogue himfelfQ. Where was the ufefulefi fair in Scot-land kept ?A. At Milguy. (there !Q }fhat fort of commodities* were foldA. Nothing but ale a,id ill wicked Wives,q^ flow was it aboliihed ?A. Becaufe thofe who went to it pncewould go to it no more*Q. For what re'afon ?A Becaufe there was nq money to be gotfor them but fair Barter, wife for wife andtie vyhoput away his wife for one fault gota wife with two as bad.-t Wha.t was the reafon that in thofe dayshisto!,stdtcri,,“eitaw3yBithWhat is the reafon now a-days thatmen court, call, marry and remarry foma-aXT5’ andkeepbut only we in publicThe Sects Piper1 s Qjteties.A Eecaufe private marriage? is becomeas common as fmogglirig and cuckoldmgthekirk no more thought of than a man to ridea mile or two on his neighbour’s ifaare ! menget will and vva’e of wives, the belt portiouand propereft'perfon is p eftrred, the firftleft the weak to :he worii, and fhe whomne does not love,, he Ihutes awaj with hisfoot and lies down with whom he p’eales. 'Qi How will ye know the b urns of curtown.by others in the kingdom?A. By their ill breeding and bad maiincmQ. What is their behaviour ?'If )ou aflt them a qudflion in civility,” il were the read to the next town,they1!! tel! you to follow your nofe, and ifgo wrong curfe the ghid-.Q. Are young and old of them no better ?A. ^11 the dds ies in the difference, forif you rfk a child to wh'm he belongs, or whois his father, he‘ll tell toyoukifs father's a—Q. What kind o! creatures are kindiieftwhen they meet;A. None can exceed thek:nda,fs of dog'svlien they meet in a market.dir-d wliatr is collies conduft there ?A. I irfl thev kifs o* liers mouths and no-bnell ah aloout, and ]a!l of nil, tliey arefo kind as to klfs her bel w the tail.Qi What is the co Id eft part of a dog?A, llis nofe,; Q. What is the. c ft deft part of and ?t'bc-S^cu Piper's ^iieries.■\. His knees.Cjj What is the coldcfl part of a v. on.aniA. The back part of her body.Q. What s thereafonthatthefe three partsof men women and dogs are cdldeft?A . Fabulous hjftorians fai , that there wasthree IrUeholes broke in Noah'sark, and that>he dog put hi; hofe in one, and another theman put hisknee in it, a third and biggeft holekroke, and the woman hang d her bcckfideinto it; and thefe parts being expofed to tr.ecold bl a ft' make them always cold ever fince.And what remedy does the man takefor the warming of his cold knees?A. lie holds them towards the fire andwhen in bed draws Ids ftiirt down over tncra,(T And what does t’ue woman do to warmher cold parts ?A. The married women turns their back-fide about to the goodman s belly; vir¬gins, and thofe going mad for marriage, theheat of their maiden-head keeps them warm,old matrons, whirl’d o er maiden, widows,and widows bewitchdhold up their cold partsto the fire.Q. Ard v hat remedy-does the poor dogtake for his cohl nofe.A Stops it below his tail the- hotteft bitin his body.‘The Scots Piper's Queries* *jA. It is Taid the dogs have three accufationsagainft the chapmen, handed down from fath*er to fon, or from onj generation of dogs to a-nother: The firii is as old as Aefop, the greatwit of Babylon the dog having a law fuit a-galrtlt the cat, gained the plea, and comingtrudging home with the .decreet below histail, a wicked chapman throwing hh elvvan athim, he let it fa’, and fo Toft his previ eges.The fecond is beeau'e in old times the chap-men fifed to buy dogs and kill them for theirfkins. The third when a chapman was quar¬tered in a farmer's houfe, that <.ight the dogloll his property the licking of the pc£.•> Q. What creature refembles molta drunk¬en piper ’A. A cat when flie fips milk; fhe alwayslings and fo dor.s a piper when he drinksgood ate.Q. What is the reafon a dog runs twiceround about before he tie down.A. Becaufehe does not know the head ofbed from the foot of it. ^Q. What creature refembks moll, a long,lean, ill-lookiug.greafy-fac d lady for pride iA None fo much as a cat, who is contin¬ually fpitting in her lufe and rubbing her faceas many of fuch ladies do the brown leather.Q; Amnngfl what fort of creatures willyou obferve mofkof a natural law ?A. The hirt and the hind imet at one cer¬tain day in the year; the broad goofe lays8 The Sect's Piper's Quet ’ies.ker first egg on Faftem s Even old file ; thecrows begin to b*ii!d their neft the firfl ofMarch old file : the Avails obferve matri¬mony and H the famale die. the male daresnot take up with another, or tie reft willput them to death ; all the birds- in generaljoin in pairs and keep fo; but the dove resem¬bles the adulterer; when the fhe one turnsold he pays her away and takes another; thelocufls obferve military order and march inbands: the frogs refemb'e pipers and preach¬ers for the young ride the old to death.% Who are the merrkft and heart'eftpeople in w® Id ?A. The failors, for they’ll be finginganjJcurfmg one another, when the waves, theirgraves are going over their heads.% Which are the difordilieft creaturesin battle ?A, Cows and dogs for they all fall uponthen that are neathmoftWho are the vaineftfort of people inthe world?A. A barber, a taylor, a young foldier,d a poor dominieWhst is the great cause of the bar¬bers vanity ?A. His being admitted to trim noblemenschafes, thyke their fculls, take kings by thenofe, and hold a razor to his very throatwhich no fubjedt elfe dare do.Me Scots Piper*t Queries. pQ. vVhat is the great caufe of the tailor spride ?A. His making of peoples new rlothes, ofwhich every perfon young and old is proud .of, then who can walk vainer than a tailorcarrying he me a gentleman's clothes.Q. What is the caufe of a young foldier*spride ?A. When he lifts, he is free of his moth¬er's correction, and the hard ufage of a badmailer, has liberty to curfe, fwear, whore,and everything,until convinced byfourhal-bprts and the drummer's whip, tint he hasnow got a military and civil law above hishead, and perhaps worfe msfters than ever,Q. What is the caufe of the poor domi¬nie's pride?A. As he is the teacher of the young andignorant, lie fuppofss no man knows whathe knows, rhe boys caU him mailer, there-he thinks himfe'f a great man.What fort of a fong is it that is fungwithout a tongue, and its notes are under-Hood by people of alt nations ?A, It is a fart, which every perfon knowsto be but wind.Q. What is the reafon that young peopleare vain, giddy-headed a d airy, and not fobumble as the children of former years ?A. Becaufe they are brought up and edu¬cate after a more hangty llrain, by reading3,0 ?kc Sc*ts Piftr's^aics.fab’es, plays, novels, and romances ; gni^elbooks, fuch as the pfalm book, proverbs andcatechifms are like oldalmanacks: nothing invogue, but fiddle, flute, Tory and Babylonilhtunes, our plain Englifii fpeech corrupted withbeauiih cants, don't, won’t, nen and ke-n, ajargon worfe than the Yorkihire dialed!.Why is ("wearing become fo com,momamongft the Scotch people ?A. Becaufe fo many lofty teachers comefrom the fouth amongft us where {wearing ispradtifed in its true grammatical perfection,hot^aths new firuck with as bright .a luftreas a new quarter guinea.Q. How will ye know the bones of a ma-fons mare at the back of a dyke, amongftthe bones of a hundred dead horfe ?A. Becaufe it is made of wood,Q. Which are the two things not to befpared, and not to be abufed ?A. A foldier’s coat and a hired horfe.7be end of'John FALKIRK'S CARICHES.The Comical rrid witty fakes of JOHN I1 AL*KIRK the MERRY PIPER.AN old gentleman and his two fobs, beingin a company, his eldeft fen fit ing nextto tim fpoke a word which highly liifpleafeclhis father, - for which his father gave him aheaity blow on the fide of the h ead ; a well ■;y«bn ]iptkir%ls Witty yokes, nlaid he, I will not lift my hand to llrike niyparent, bat he gives his other brother thatfat by him a blow on the ear faying, givethat about by way of a drink till it comesto my father again.A failor traveling between Edinburgh atulLinlithgow which, is twe’ve long computedmiles; and as he was fetting on in the mor¬ning about eight o’clock, he faw a vain-likeyoung fparh go running pall him, which henever minded but kept jogging on at his ownleifure : and as he was goiog into Linlith¬gow about twelve' o’clock, up comes theyoung fpark, and ailced the failor whato’clock\t was, why fays the failor, I f-e you havea watch and l have none, what is it ? out hepulls his watch, ho i faid he it’s dire&lytwelve, and what,do you think, it wss haifan !-our after tenor I came out ofEdinburghI have walked it in an hour and a half; it ispretty we 1 trTpt, faysthe Ihilor but pray fir,v hat man of bufintfs are you ? O', faid be Cam a watch maker, I was thinking fo faidtheiailor for you have made y our watch-to anfwer.your fcet-fer they cannot anfwer arightwatch and 1 fuppofe your tongue cannotkeep time with e therof them, dnyou remem¬ber where you paffd me this morning ^jouteight o’clock.* Qyts, faid he and offhe went.A cer ain old reverend pried being onen ight at fupper in a gentleman’s houfe; andfor one artfe'e having eggs, the fervor of the12 Jebn Falkirk's nitty yokes.tjfible^aid a cloth on every one s knee for tohold their egg in when hot; when Cupperwas over, the prieft looked down betweenhis legs, an feeing the white cloth, thoughtit was his own {hire tail, and very flyly flapsinto his breeches bit and bit, which the la*dy and the maidbbferved, but was afhamed-to tell him; Co home he went with the fer-vit in his breeches, and knew nothing of ittill going to bed, when it fell from hims hiswife enquired how he came by it, he couldnot tell, but was furprifed how he came tohave moie bulk in his breeches than for¬merly but obferving the name they fent itback again, the priefl pleaded to be excufeU,owned hitr felf only a thief in ignorance.As two maids were coming from milkingtheir coa s, one of them flepping over a flile,fell and fpiltthe whole paleful of milk fromher head. 'O faid flie what will I do. whe"will I do. O faid the other maid let it go.who can help it now, you can't take it upa£ain, its r.ot your maidenhead : my maid¬en h<ad, faid fhe, if it were my maiden head,I would think nothing of it, m?ny a time Ihave loft my maiddn head tith gteat plea-Cure and it ay came back to its air* placeagain, but 1 II never gather up my milk.A drover who frequented a public inn infhen orth of England, as he pafkd and re-. pa fled, agreed « ith the fervant maid of thehoufc for a touch of love; for.v. hi - h he gaveJohn Falkirk1 s vfittj Jokes. 13her a fix and thirty {hilling piece : On thenext morning he mounted his horfe, withoutafldng a bill cr what was to pay; but fur, faidthe landlord, you forgot to pay your reck-cni«g: well minded fir, I want my change,the maid was called in all haft yes, faid fheI got it but it was not for that, thro* - itdown and offfhe goes: her miftrefs gave herthe challenge fhe told her it was fo, but Ihefhould be up v ith him. T» e've monthsafter he coming pall with his drove, putsup at the.Came inn as formerly: The girlthen goes to a neighbour woman, who hada vojing child about three months old, la>sit on the trble: faying fir the e’sthe changeof your fix ani thirty; and away fhe comes:the child cries and the bell’s rung, the land¬lord w as ready enough to anf ?er. Ofir, faidthe drover, call he/back, for this will ruinmy family and crack my credit: but fir, faidthe girl, you thought nothing to ruin mvcha-rafter and cr ck my maiden-head : Peace,peace, faid he my dear/here’s one hundredand fifty pounds, and take a - ay the childand trouble me no more : Well, faid fhe, Iwill take it, and you li make more of buy-ing cows.than maiden.-beads ; to av ay filecitne .with the money, and returetd ihebc-rrmved cbhd to its own mother.Three merry companions having m* t ona Saturday night a'- Snalc heufe, (a hatter a. ,14 John Falkirk1 s Carricbes.ilioe-maker, and a taylor,) where they drankheartily all that night, and to marrow untilmid day : and their bets were who had theiovingeft wife: So they agreed for a trialoftheir good nature, that every man fhoald dowhatever his wife bad him d) asfoo.n as everhe went home; who did not as fhe orderedhim was to pay all the reckoning, whiqh wasfeven and flxpence : or if.all of them did astheir wives bade themthen they were to paya'l alike. So on this agreement they allcameaway firfltothe hatter s houfe, andinhe goeslike a madman, dancing and jumping roundthe floor, his wi e at the time was takingoff ihf pot and fet ingit on the floor, he flilldancing about now fays the wife, ding overthe pot with thy n’adnefs. fo he gives it akick and over if went,and that faved him ashe I'ad done what his * ife bade him do.. Thenaway thev go to the taylor s houfe in he goesdancing likcwife, but his wife fell a foldinghim : O fays he my dear g‘ye me a kifs? kilsmy arfe you drunken rogue, faid Ihe^ th*n toher he flies aod lay*her over th'ebed up withher petticoats and kiffes her arfe be fore themall, and that b.yedhim; then away they wentto the flu emaker's, and in he goes very mer¬ry, and dancing about as he law the ethertwo do : faying, come my dear heart, andgive me a kifs*? go oang yqurfelfyou drun¬ken dog, faid flic { fa he tuuft either go andhang himrelf direclly, cr pay the reckoning.-jib* FaMrk'j witty 15An honeft Highlandman not long fince, notmuch acquainted with the law, fell out with-oneofhis neighbours, and to the law they went the employed one advocate, and bis oppofite a-nother, and as they were debating it in courtbefore the judges, thehigh’andman being thereprefent, a friend on his lide alked him how hethought it would go, or who would gain theday, indeed fajs the higlandman, his lawmanfpeaks well, and my law-man Ipeaks well, Lthink we’ll both win, and the judges will lofe,fer they fpeak but a word now and thin.A young woman by the old accident hav¬ing got herfelf wi h child, was called to thefeffion for fo doing and afttr one e der anotherexamin ng how flie got ir, and where fhe goti', and what tempted her to get it; and nodoubt the deel wad get her for the getting it; -la!I of all the minifter he fell a enquiring howIhe get it, which run the poo-: lals out of adpatience about the getting, lays the prieft, tellme p’ainly where it was gotten? 1 tell you,laid Ihe, that it v-rs gotten.in the byre, at acow’s ftake, and what other place do ye wantto ken about ? but laid he, did he net tie youto{Jte cow's flake: no, faid Hie, 1 did ii. tmedfcny tying; and how far w;s between thebyre aid the houfe ? juft but ard ben -upanddown two Haps of a Hare fta r ; then lays theprleil why did you rot cry to the folks in thehoufe? indeed fir, laid Ike, I could not getcried for tie laughing at it.l6 John Falkirk i witty y»ket.An old foldier bein^ on a furlough from thenorth of Scotland having got no breakfalt,felivery hungry by the way and no ale hdufebe-mg near, came into a farmer's houfe, and de¬fined they would fell him fome bread, or anykind of viftuals; to which the furly good wifereplied fhem.ver fold any bread, and fhewasnot going to begin with him. he had but threemiles and a bittock to an ale-hcufe, and hemight walk on, as fhe did fair enough whenhie gied bits of bread for naetsiny to beggars.fhe gied nane to idle fodgers, he had nae-thing to do there swa*. Hout faid the goqd-man, gie m a ladlefu o‘ our kail, he‘2 beenfomebodv's bairo before he was a fodger.What f faid fhe 'there;s not a drop in the pot,*they're a i the plate before you , then gie'ma fpoon and let him fup wi us ; The fogergefs a fpoon, and thinking he cculd fup allbe faw, the firft fup he took he fpouted backagain into the plate and cries out> O mvfore'mouth, the hide's all off yet fince I had. the clap: every one thrwoing down f is fpoonthe fo'di-r got all to fup himfe f; the wife. flood curfmg and fcolding al! the while andwhen he was done, burnt both plate a’ dfpoon in the lire, to prevent the clap. So thefbldier came off with a f >11 belly leavingthe wife dreffing the g odman s rigging witha four footed ftool for bidding him ibp,A churlifh man and u virtuoss wife, onetime fell out, becaufs the w-fe had g v^nJohn Falkirk's witty Jokes 1JfomeLhing to the poor; what laid the mil refs1M1 let you know there is r.othing about thishoufe but what is mine : wel!, well good-man th:n you‘11 let me have nothing, take itall and give me peace : So awavthey went tobed, the good wife turned hrrbackfide towardthe good man ; and as he was falling alleepIhe dr'aws up her 1'mock and lets fly in thegoodmards ihirt tail, vvhiSli awakened him inas great fright as he had been fhct ; ay, aywoman what are ye about? what am I aboutfaid Ihe : dear woman you're filling the bed.Not I geodman, for when my arfe was myown I took care of it, and take j ou care of itnow, its yours. Q rife woman and clean thebed and keep your arfe and a‘ the liberty yehad before and more, if ye want jt* fe'gh,fcigh; what's .this ? I m a dirt.A flrips crew being one time in great dif-trefs at f.a by reafon of a violent ftorm and bemg all falsen down to prayer,expeding everymoment to go to the bottom : there happenedto be an old gentlemam a paflenger on boardwith them, who had a great big red nofe withdrinking ale and whifky : and being all attheir lail prayers as they thought, a little boyburfl out into loud laughter: O thou 'hought-lefs rogre. faid the captain what makes theeto laugh in heinous ail on the psint of pe-yiming? why faid the boy, I cannot but laugh*or t;- think what fine fport it will b; .whenl8 Jbhn Falkirk's winy Jokes.we are a'f drowniag, to_fee how that man'sred nofe will make th^ wattr btz when itcomes about it; at winch words they all fella laughing and therifh d the crew, fo thattheym.de anodter attempt to v/ea.ther it out,'and got all fife afliore at lift.My lovely Bet,The beauty of old age, the hoary head, andlotiching inoulderi incline to morta ity ; yetI'll compare thee to the Eagle thathas renew¬ed her youth, or a leek with a white head anda green tail, this comes to thee with my kindcompliments forkiffes'of thy lips and thekind-nefs 1 had to thy late bsd-fel ow, Fuller Patemy b other penfuner. ah! how v?c dranko-ther’s health with the broe of the bracketewes, we brought from boa gilts cf the Ger¬man Boors but it’s uonfenfeto b’ow the deed,when i i th dull. >et a better Vialer neverforce led on a filk^n cord, or kittl’d cat’strypes wi’ his finger-ends; his dbows werefupple as an eel, and his fingers dabbed at ihe:jigging end like a hungry hen picking barley :1 felJorn or ever faw him drunk, .f keep himfrom whifky, an 1 whifley from h "m : except^that nig >t be tryftet the pair of free-ftonebreeches from jofeph the mafon; and now mydear Beffey he’s got them he s got them for afree-ftane covers his body, holds him down,and will d6: and now, now my dainty thing,match for matrimony, com-; take'me »ow ortell menow, I’m in danger, I’ll waitnlehangeryabn Falkirk's Kitty Jokes. *9I fay be clever, ei her now. or never, it's arapture of love v.hich doe? me move. I'll havea wife, or by my life if flip fhould be blindand cripple, I’ll fe'l my win’‘for. her me standfun, the like ne’er gade doxn her th; apple :fo now BefTy I love you, my love lies nponyou: and iv you love rne not ag^in, feme illchance cojnc upon you, as Im fly ting fr,e-iI’m both in love and banter, or may yourrumple ruftfor me. I’vef *orn it by myoiianterTHE LKP.7be QUA K E R and CLOWN*WONDERFUL TALE.A Certain clown, named Roger, lovedthe chimney corner fo much better thana church pew, f at he conftantly paffrd h’SSundays in i. It was fo long fmc; he hadattended divine f rvice thath: fcarce remem¬bered the col nr of the par Ton’s caflbck. lliswife, who heartily wifhed his abfence v/asmore irequcr.t, took occafion one day to re-prefent to himin the moft emphatica mannerwhat an heinous c ime it was to neg-edt di¬vine lervice. She he’d forth fo long and lo loudon this head, that hr, tind by hpr arguments,determined to leave his beloved feat, with anintent on to go to churcji. • He went accord-ingly from home; but happening in his wayto the church to fee the door of the quaker’s20 ^ 7be Q^taker and tbs Clown.qu^;<er,s reeeting-.op.-n, he went rn, fat down,on a form and tell fail affeep.^ Aminadab iicldforth having fuRaiiied fomeIoffes, was telling "his auditors, that whate¬ver th-?y gave him ftiould be returned two¬fold. Eoger waked juft as he made this de-c ararion, and from the meeting to his cot¬tage revolved thefe words in his mind.When he got home herepeated them tohisw.fe ; tel ing at the fain: time that as hethou ht it improbab’e his Sriend Aminadabfttould lie, he was determined totnake aima pr ferrt-&f^.is cow Cherry ; as it would,according to his prumife in the meeting, be. returned two fold.On this extraordinary information thedoor wom an fet up an horrid outcry ; urg¬ing in the lb ongeft term's that h r dear Cher¬ry s milk was their chief fup port; but allto no purpofj* floger wes abfolutely bent onhis defign, and-dove her a' ay immediatelyAminadab, rsgardlefs of his • iE’j, lamenta¬tions and -piteous moars.When h-j arrived at hishoufe, Friend A-minadab happned to be at the door. Rogercireftly doff d Iris hat &c gnawing its corner,,addreffed him in the following manner «friend Atninad.'b, I?.: brought you here ourcow Cherry, an you pieafes to acceptaipher.1 hoa art an honeft fellow, replies Amitvadab:~Here, Sarah, fake (,ur h neft neighbourinto the kitchen and ?et him cAt heartily :and hark ye,make him dri nh fotne of our beftThe Quaker end Clown* 11a’c.- Atthefe foundsRoger’s ht-art leapt withjoy, He was condudcd to the kitchen wherehe zded his part nr^oft manfully: and in twohours, was lent hgine as happy as a princ *."When her: ame home he hoailed to his wifetha! hehadalrcadyreceivcdfcmething in partof his gift that ? I Would be returned in t^nie,and he-was certain his friend Aminadab hadfpeken truth: but his wile interrupting himin the harangue \vi:h ah accufation of ilup:-dity and having fcolilhly ruined himfelf andher. Roger to avoid farther altercation retir¬ed to bed, and flept foundly till morning.As foon as Roger waked his ears were at¬tracted by the founds of moo—-moo-- moo,under his window. Hegot up and looking outperceived his own cow Cherry and Amina-dab’s bull whom fhe had decoyed home withher. Overjoy edit the fight he w« Iced his wife,and informed her of their good fortune; andlikewife upbraiding her for her unbelief ofwords uttered at the meeting;'and remarkedthathislriend Aminadabhndbeen bettenhanhis word, for he had not only returned bisgift twofold but had likewife given him thebelt dinner he had ever tailed in his life.It was then determined to fell the bull andkeep the cow. No fooner refolved on thanput in execution? the bull was'fold, and thecow referved for her former ufe.Reger having fuch fuccefs by going tomeeting determined to go there again. Thenext Sunday, being jfeated as before, he was2 2 and Clownvery attention to Aminadab’s difcourfe; andtowards the conelufioh, he was greatly afton-ifli'ed to hear him pronounce the following^ords: “ thatwhe-eason Monday lafl I haveloft: my bull together, with a cow-lately mademe prefent of; whoever can give information,of the faid cow and bull, fo as they may berecovered imy receive a crown reward.”This appearing fomewhat mytteriousto Ro¬ger, he refolved to intifnate his furprize toAminadad; whom he addreffed accordingly,as he was coming out of the meeting. TheQuaker finding by his difcourfe that he wasthe perfon whohad gotboth cowand bull, toldhim/t? a great paffion that he would the nextmorning take a ride to Mr. Glearcafe (a juft-ice of'-peace, who lived at about three milesdiftance) and inform him of the affair. Ro¬ger determined to be atthe jullices as foon asthe Quaker, and fet out accordingly the-nextmorning earlyiOn the road, Roger efpied the Quaker’shorfe tied to the door of;a fmall hedge al--houfe to which he' immediately went; and,peeping thro’ a window perceived Aminadaband the landlord’s wife tranfaftingfome affairswhicfbcouldnot be termed abfolutely defcreet.At this unexpected fight Roger wps greatlyoverjoyed, knowing he could intimidate theQuaker atany time byletting him underftandwhat he was privey to, which would excitethe rage of his own conjugal termagant.Tke Quaker ond Clovui. 23Roger entering the houfe, drunk a pint.ofale with all poffible ffeed; and then informedthe iervant Mr Ho'dfenh and he had agreedtorid€ fped andfpel'. orwhat is odterwifecall¬ed ride and tye a method praftifed in the coun¬try when two go togethei and have but onehorfe between them, one riding nrft cndleav-ing the horfe at a place appointed: or if neitherof them krew the way t\ ing him tothe doorof feme public ho«f , in Inch a m nner as theother mull abfolutely fterit ; ar.ddtfcribing tothe people of the boufe. the perfon they areto deliver the horfe.to ; in this manner theyproceed during the whole journey.Roger having got poffeffion of Aminadab’shorfe rode it to ttie town where the juftice ofthe peace lived and ftruck up a bargain witha great deal of expedition and lold it; thenwaited at the juftice's door for the Quaker.Porr Aminadab whole corpulence was nogreat friend to his walking in a Ihort time af-ter came puffing and bl.wing'towards thejuitice’s. Roger immediately informed him,that being very much tired by the journey,snd feeing his horle Hand idle at a door, hehad made bold toufe him: and finding a chapwho was willing to give a good price for himhe readily fold him, thinking it a fin to refufca good offer; and therefore hoped he wouldnot take it ill what he had done*Uponhearing this the Quakerwasm a greatpaflion; and faid, <‘Thou villain ! what after24 The §{u(rker atuTClovin.having r^bb d me ti mybuU ^.ndco^, to flealmy horfe!—why-^why fellov/ don't youthink to.be tang’d i •—’ I hope not,4 repliesRoger, bat however th?* may be pray fnendlet me alk the one quefiion, What might yoube doing when I took the horfe? ta “ ,Hufh !Hulh ? cries the quaker in a terrible fright,“never mention wtat thou hall feen, and I’llforgnethee all. Go'hy ways, andharkthee,take grace with thee “Roger boweo, and proceeded homeward ;but as the quaker moved llowly, determinedto call, at his houfe. When he arrived themaid accolled him with, ‘Well Roger, howhaft thou and my mailer rode it out ? Oh!very well, replies Roger, “we’re as goodfriends as ever, tde bid me go and take gracewith me 4 Grace" cries the maid; ‘what,and all her pigs ! ’Now reader you mull know grace was afavourite fow of thf quaker’s who had latelylittered a fine parcel ot pigs. The maid think¬ing it her mailer’s .intention turned the fowand her litter out of the fty, and Rogerdrovethem home before him..The quaker’s wife being made acquaintedwith the affair; th* reception Aminadabmetwith from her when flie faw him come homewithout his horfe is better imagined thanexpreffed—But I am credibly informed thathis harangues in the meetieg were for fometime aftervery muchlarden with invectivesagainft rage--hard words—and an immode¬rate indulgence of the pafions. ;