THE■lJEWISH RABBIESCARE OF GOD’s LAW;AND THECare of God’s $oor,EFFECTUAL MEANSFor the Deception of those who care for neither.WITH ANAPPEAL TO THE PUBLIC,BY UNANSWERED LETTERS, CONCERNING THE CRAFTOF ANStcmiman XeatljerIE GREENOCK.BY A WELL-WISHER TO THE POOR,And the Public Assemblies of God’s Worship.GLASGOW:Printed for the Author,BY T. DUNCAN, 159, SALTMARKET.1818.( OF SCOTUKD r.B UJewish Rabbies Care, tyc.JElVERY town and parish in Scotland havetheir poor in these times; and certainly call notonly for their support, but also that the causes ofsuch unprecedented numbers, and unprecedentedneeds, of the poor, be inquired into, and healed ifpossible; for this we cannot impute to a want ofsoil and food. The earth and its fulness is muchmore than enough for all its inhabitants, would cor¬ruption, and combination of graceless men, sufferit to do what God has given it to do: therefore, Imaintain, there is no need for a Malthus plan, todestroy the poor from the earth, if we would de¬stroy corruption, the cause of poverty.When the Son of God appeared in our world,(the Messiah that was to come, and did come,) hetells us, for this end of being a King was I born,and came into the world. But the Teachers andRabbies of that time, though he came to his own,agreeably to the prophecies that had gone before ofhim, were not the men that waited for his coming;they were not the men who knew him when hecame, and who flocked around him as their Kingand Saviour. The reverse was the case: becausehe avowed his kingly mission, those teachers of thelaw affirmed he should Ue put to death, for makinghimself a king; which thing they did effect, thatthe counsel of God, before determined, should beaccomplished, in the sacrifice and satisfaction ofA 24that seed of the woman that was to bruise the headof the serpent, and deliver the people of his king¬dom, that all Israel might be saved. Now it is notmore clearly revealed in the Old Testament, thatthe Messiah would come in person, the King of ■Israel, to deliver his people, than it is in the NewTestament, that he shall come in power, to reignwith his people on earth a thousand years. Hence jit is said, Rev. xx. 6, Blessed and holy is he thathath part in the first resurrection. But as it wasat the personal coming of the Messiah, the earthwas corrupted, and the law or word of God madeof non-effect, by the Rabbies and their traditions;so that nothing of God’s word that was not currentwith them could pass in those times. By reason ofthis, we find the people were grossly ignorant, andprepossessed against Christ when he appeared,though his works, and words, were such, as werenever before seen or heard in Israel; yet all couldnet restrain their ignorant opposition to him. Inthe same manner, at this day, so generally consi¬dered as the dawn of that glorious day of Christ’sreign with his people on earth, the increase of cor¬ruption and Doctors, have so manifestly filled upthe footsteps of those who withstood the personalreign of Christ, that they act over again the verysame part that did the Rabbies by their traditions;and the law or word of God is so evidently made ofnon-effect by them, that neither the word of God,nor those walking in its light, can this day beknown, if not current with the Doctors. Hencewas it, that as Christ and his Prophets were there¬by hid to the Old Testament professors, so in thevery same manner are they in this day of the NewTestament. The blessed and holy of Christ’s firstresurrection cannot be known, by reason of Doctorsand their traditions: nothing that is not currentwith them can pass in these times: adherence toGod’s word, and knowledge of it, makes the poorand naked so much more hateful in the sight ofthe professors of this time, and has no more effectwith our Doctors than it had with the Jewish Rab-bies. Hence the imprisonment of such as dare toobey God’s word rather than theirs; and hence isit that meetings have been lately called by our Doc¬tors, to defeat the very word of God, and to forceevery conscience from its obedience to theirs—saidto be for the poor.In Greenock, a meeting, as I am informed, wascalled for the poor, where neither Christ nor theApostle of the Gentiles could have opened a mouthfor the poor, had they been there. The Apostletells us he fought with beasts at Ephesus, but eventhat woidd have been denied him there, because hewas neither Doctor nor Heritor. I was told, atone of these late meetings of Reverend Gentlemenand Heritors, said to be for the poor, a ReverendDoctor observed, that he had been studying theplan before them for twenty years. But had heemployed all that time to have his people honestlyinstructed, visited, and examined—the ignorantand scandalous of them kept back from eating anddrinking damnation to themselves; nay, had hestudied how unclean fornicators, adulterers, drunk¬ards, &c. might be reclaimed, and prevented frombringing diseases and misery on themselves and con¬nections; I will venture to say, one half that arenow driven on the poor’s funds thereby, might havebeen helpers of the poor, in place of consumers oftheir funds.* What then were all these twenty* If the shepherd upon the mountains is in danger of neglect¬ing his flock, and will not escape with impunity if he does; whyshould the shepherds of congregations of immortal souls be sufferedin such neglect, to the ruin of both souls and bodies of many, andto the distress of others, through their indolence and breach of faith ?A 36years’ study of the Doctor for? I answer, Doubt¬less, it had its end: but it will be a hard task forany one to prove his end was good in seeking topervert the word of God, and the constitution of thePresbyterian Church of Scotland, and to bring ayoke upon the necks of Presbyterians that neitherwe, nor our fathers, were able to bear. Every onewho reads God’s word with understanding, knows,the giving of alms is there provided for, and is asparticularly stated as any precept of God’s worshipin the Mediator’s ordinance, or church upon earth,that people when giving to the poor might therebylend to the Lord, and was alw ays considered as suchin the Church of Scotland, till this Reverend Doctorbegan his study to throw out of the Church of Scot¬land that part of God’s worship, that the people, likethe Doctor, in place of studying God’s word, how tolend to the Lord by giving to the poor, according tothe divine institution of God, and the constitution ofour Church, must study how to give in to theirvice-gerent an account of their property and in¬come, that he may make of non-effect the divineprecept concerning them, and so make involuntarythat which should be voluntary, and that twentyshillings that should be one shilling, and those toneglect the poor that would be kind to the poor.Such are the effects of the Doctor’s twenty years’study, as both rich and poor in this place can tes¬tify, from what they have experienced of the Doc¬tor’s new plan. Before this, no man in Scotland,when Presbyterian principles reigned, was evercalled to give to the poor what he could not sparefrom himself and depending connections, nor torob shops and houses of merchandize, by givingfor the poor wrhat should have paid the merchant;nor were any forced unwillingly to that part olGod’s worship, for the fear of confiscation of goodsor imprisonment./These are the effects of the Doctor’s twentyyears’ study; so that by these effects, and the wis¬dom of the Doctor’s stewardship, he can bring intohis hands large sums of money for the poor, andespecially for those who were subjects of the Doc¬tor’s visitation in affluence, before they became poor,and have relations who may be still affluent. Thelame may starve or beg, but such favourites shall not,so long as the Doctor commands the public purse.Yet, such the wages of sin in these places and times,the people feel nothing but the taking of their mo¬ney from them: they feel for that, but for the per¬verting of God’s word and the constitution of thePresbyterian Church of Scotland, they feel nothingmore than stalled oxen, which like them will cryfor meat. But why is it so? 1 answer. BecauseGod s gift or grace is withheld from them, andthey want that eternal life through Jesus Christ,our Lord, therefore are not concerned for whatconcerns it. They are not like our worthy prede¬cessors, who rather suffered unto the death thanthat they and their children should be denied theliberty of obeying God’s word or law, or be theimplicit slaves and creatures of erastian prelates, inopposition thereto. Alas! that Isaiah vi. 10 isso applicable to this land and time, “ Make theheart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy,and shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyesand hear with their ears, and understand with theirheart, and convert and be healed.” Judgmentseems to wait for us, and is near. What is thereason that I and so many others have withdrawnour persons and collections from the parish assem¬blies or Churches of these lands for worship? Ianswer for myself, and God is my witness of thetruth I here relate, it is out of no disrespect to thatdivine injunction, not to forget the assembling of8myself with others in the worship and obedience ofGod, as in his word; for in this is my chief enjoy¬ment upon earth: and I have travelled far, and spenta good part of my life in quest of such an assemblyas I might join with, without disjoining with thatword of God by which I am soon to be judged;and, for the want of Christian fellowship, I havebeen among others in the world as a dove withoutits mate.*I am not a despiser of God’s public worship, butone much grieved at public assemblies; so far fromworshipping God in spirit and truth, according tohis word, they are open contemners of those whowould; and though ministers in general have whatthey call a liberal education, enabling them to read,hear, and understand, the things of the spirit of aman, above those who have not, which I allow to* OBJECTION.—In this the author contends for a church, asthe word of God, perfect, which we never can expect in time,where even the godly do see but in part, and know but in part.I answer. All that I allow; and such a perfection as the Scrip¬tures I expect in no person nor church. But are we, from that con¬sideration, like Tabernaclites, and New Lights, to make of non¬effect the express revelation of God’s word, allowing every man aright to neglect and pervert the express precepts of God’s word,as his blind misguided conscience shall direct. Rom.xiv. 1. “ Himthat is weak in the faith receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations.”Whatever conceit these people have of themselves, in stating theirobjections to creeds or confessions, it is evidentfrom tbeir weaknessof faith, in making every thing doubtful in God’s word, and de¬pend on men’s conscience, they make themselves unfit to be re¬ceived into any Christian society where the above Scripture is ob¬served : 1 Cor. v. ii. is not doubtful who are to be avoided, and noteat with, as friends of Christ. Neither is it at all doubtful, 2 Cor.vi. 15, 16, 17, whom Christian brethren are to separate themselvesfrom. I allow human infirmities call us to be very tender in se¬parating from the communion of brethren, and that it should be forno matter that is doubtful in its signification, such as the eating offlesh, and keeping of one day more sacred than another, besides theLord’s day, as instanced to the Church of Corinth. But are weon that account to look on all God’s word as doubtful, and adhereto corrupt assemblies rather than the word of God? God forbid!9be good and necessary in their own place for publicorators,* yet, with respect to the things of thespirit of God, which require a man not only to bea spiritual man, but to walk after the spirit, andnot after the flesh, this appears in general foolish¬ness to them, and the man doing so an enthusiast.For if the eye be single in this respect, the bodyshall be full of light, by that spirit of God enablingthem to see many things they never could perceiveby human learning, and to prove many things evenof God’s word, that are not to be believed accord¬ing to the general acceptation of commentators onGod’s word. Cor. ii. 5. “ That your faith shouldnot stand in the wisdom of men, but in the pow erof God.” Verse 7, “ But we speak the wisdom ofGod in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom whichGod ordained before the world, unto our glory.”It is a very erroneous and general idea of God’sword, in the mouth of mostly all professors I havetalked with, that because God hath sealed up hisword that none shall add to it or diminish from it,he hath also sealed up that spirit from men by whichthe Scriptures were written, and no extraordinarygifts of God’s spirit is now either to be expected orbelieved. So that hereby the tradition of the Doc¬tors of this day is as effectually opposed to the spiritof God, as was that of the Rabbies to the person ofChrist—that no good thing should come out ofNazareth.The reign of King Jesus wdth his people uponearth, though many eminent commentators, ofwhom I am far from undervaluing, yet of those,1.* But, alas! for the oratory of Doctors in these times, when itwould bury all truth and principle, and allow Christians to he anything—Papists, Episcopalians, Presbyterians, or Dissenters of anykind. Such sermons, in my opinion, in place of being four timespreached or read, and then printed, had batter never seen the light.10and these who have rested in their views of theScriptures, I am ready to say, as Christ to his dis¬ciples, “ O fools, and slow of heart;” to believeall that the prophets have said, and be therebyblinded to that so manifestly now before the eyesof all, that the man of sin and son of perdition isnow clearly revealed, who hath opposed and ex¬alted himself above all that is called God, or thatis worshipped. For that mystery of iniquity beganits work in the Apostles’ days, and was to be letgrow until the pagan beast who opposed Christ inthe reign of his prophetic office on earth, should bythe force of Christianity be wounded in his seventhhead, or government, making the pagan govern¬ment declare itself Christian. So that the perse¬cuting beast that was, is not, until healed into anAnti-Christian beast, to begin the opposition ofChrist’s reign on earth, by the persecuting all foroffering unto God such sacrifices as his word re¬quires; and by this persecuting of Christ’s priestlyoffice, the second beast began his reign, under thepretext of Christ’s vice-gerent on earth, which wasto continue twelve hundred and sixty days, untilGod’s two witnesses, or laws for his two kingdomsof men, civil and ecclesiastical, shall have finishedtheir testimony in the street of the great city wherethe second beast is again wounded unto death, andput down from all power in either government, andthat street or kingdom declared the kingdom of ourLord and his Christ, where the Mediator was toreign in his kingdom, not of this world, in all hisoffices of Prophet, Priest, and King; where thegodly were to live in all peace, godliness, and hon¬esty, in their inner court for worship, and theirouter court for protection.But, lo! how suddenly the second beast, as thefirst, ascends, and, as a third, commences his war11against Christ in his kingly office, exalting himselfas the others above all that is called God, or thatis worshipped, seating himself above the higherpowers that be of God: and thus, for preferringthese two ordinances of Christ, as Creator and Me¬diator, the higher powers that be of God, howmany of the saints in that street were put to deathby this third beast, as by the first and second.—That the righteous judgment of God may be seenon this three-fold beast and Babel, in destroyingall these destroyers of the earth; that King Jesusmay reign with his people on earth; and that hisordinances, or laws, as God and as Mediator, maybe submitted to by all, from the king on the throneto the meanest in the land. For why should anyman, ruler or ruled, profess to believe in God andhis revelation, and at the same time set himselfabove all that is called God, or that is worshipped}as if hypocrisy was enough for God; and his revela¬tion fit only for the support of Popes and Kings,to the opposition of his dear Son, and his blessedreign upon earth. But seeing the third woe ofGod is to come suddenly on this third part of thebeast, and the Kings are now actually gathered in¬to a holj' league, that Christ and liberty may notreign; the cry is to every sleeping Christian, in thismidnight darkness, Lo! the Bridegroom comes,and who is ready to meet him?The four following questions, from Rom. xiii.1, 2, the author thought of submitting to the read¬er, that, by the aid of the above, he may get a bet¬ter view of the above passage than the late perse¬cutors in Scotland had, who used to turn up thatpassage to condemn the conscientious godly in theland, for not submitting their conscience to them,as the higher powers. As but few have got anybetter view of the passage than what the persecutors12had, the questions are certainly an important in¬quiry.Q. First.—Who are these higher powers everysoul is enjoined to be subject to?Q. Second.—Why are they to be subject topowers in the plural number?Q. Third.— Does every soul, in the above, in¬clude the subjection of rulers to these higher pow¬ers, as well as the ruled?Q. Fourth. Is it so that none resisteth thesehigher powers who doth not resist the ordinanceof God, and who shall not receive damnation tothemselves thereby?At the same time I have stated these questionsfor answer, let it be observed, that unless the higherpowers are found, that every soul may and oughtto be subject to them, without the exception of onesoul) agreeably to the truth of that text of Scrip¬ture, right reason and common sense, neither thecommon acceptation of authors, nor their respect¬ability for learning and piety, opposed to these, canbe admitted. For it is truly shameful to see men,so correct, in letters and words, guilty of such blun¬ders in the things of God. For as there are noneof these higher powers to whom subjection is calledfor and due but of God, and God’s ordinance; soit is the height of folly to set up kings not by God,and princes that he did not know, and say, theseare the higher powers of God, to whom every soulis to be subject, in opposition to the God that madethem, and his revelation, that is so soon to judgethem for a never-ending eternity.^■W-VV-V V-^-V^-% ■v-v-v^x.^First Letter to the Arminian Priest, Mr. M*.“ Greenock, 5th December, 1817.“ Sir—Having heard you last night on these13words, “ Where the spirit of the Lord is, there isliberty;” one branch of Christian liberty 1 couldhare wished you to have treated of, is that whichthe Apostle Peter enjoins upon all Christians, “ Tobe always ready to give an answer to every manthat asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you,with meekness and fear.” This I wished the more,as I had an opportunity of lately seeing a citationfrom Mr. Wesley vindicated by Mr. Crabtree,That he, Mr. Wesley, would rather be a Jew, aTurk, a Deist, or even an Atheist, than a Cal¬vinist.“ If such be your sentiments among professors,the general part professed Calvinists, or, as Mr.Wesley views them, professed Atheists, it becomesyou, for the exoneration of your own character,as well as your obedience to the divine injunction,to give a reason of your hope to many in Greenockwho, if not asking you, are truly desirous to knowhow your hope stands with respect to these two;and I, as one, shall be truly gratified to hear it.”N. B.—For the information of the reader, thisfirst Letter the author did expect an answer to it;but in place of an answer, the preacher fitted upfor him a discourse, probably with the expectationof the author to hear it, the next Thursday evening.But though this was not the case, nevertheless heheard of it; that it was intended to say he was afool, for attempting to write to the preacher for areason of his hope; which called forth the secondLetter, and now the publication of both, that peo¬ple may have warning of these deceivers, whetherthey will take it or not. For while they craftilyhide their principles in their preaching, they arebusily employed, as a Mr. Walker observes, withtheir class or drill meetings, to get the simple en-B14tangled in their cursed errors. For this I do affirm,their errors are so shameless, that no man, ac¬quainting himself with them and the Bible, will bedeceived by them.Second Letter to the Arminian Priest.“ Sir—Having wrote you some time ago, settingbefore you that divine injunction, which calls uponevery God-fearing man to be ready always to givean answer to every man asking him a reason of thehope in him, with meekness and fear; this I wishedthe more to have from you, that I know you to be¬long to the Arminian Methodists, and that as youhad brought forward none of their errors in myhearing, such as their denial of the electing loveof God in choosing the elect in Christ to salvation,before the foundation of the world, as in Eph. i. 4,affirming they would rather be Atheists than be¬lieve he did so; such as their denial of the efficaciousatonement of Christ’s blood in behoof of his chosenpeople, in losing none of them, as in John vi. 39,affirming that he who was redeemed by the blood ofChrist, and thereby put in his hand a child of graceand saint to-day, may, by the power of sin andSatan, be plucked out of that hand, and in hellto-morrow.“ These, Sir, are the damnable doctrines of Ar¬minian Methodists, which I was in hopes, by rea¬son of your youth, and omission in the discourse Iheard, that you might be either ignorant of them,or opposed to them, and that your respect for theinjunction of God’s word I set before you in myLetter, would have determined you to answer it;the neglect of which forces the conclusion upon me,that you are neither ignorant nor opposed to theabove errors, nor respectful of God’s injunction.15but such a deceiver as Christ hath warned his peo¬ple was to come upon the earth to deceive many,and, if possible, the very elect. For I confess yourcraft of keeping out of sight your errors, and yourwarm-spirited effusions, though in some things Iallow more fitted to engage the eye than either theear or understanding; yet, with the allowance Imake for a young preacher, and the partiality Ihave to an affectionate preacher, you had nearlycaught me, as one of the fools that turneth aside tothe snare. But though I esteem affectionate preach¬ing, yet, not opposed to truth; for I believe Godcan only be worshipped in spirit and truth, andtherefore I believe not every spirit, but try themby the truth of God’s word, whether they are ofGod with truth, or opposed to God without it.Neither will my warm attachment to old books,especially the Bible, and that old truth which wasbefore the foundation of the world, God’s choosingof his elect in Christ, to call them from the othersunder wrath, to believe in his name and merits forsalvation, suffer me to stop long where these are de¬nied. And if 1 should be such a fool as to stop anddispute with such enemies of truth, yet, I trust,never to run with such, like so many Gadertanswine, by the devil’s influence, without stopping ordisputing with such guides, till choked in the gulfof endless despair.“ Allow me, Sir, to caution you not to think italight thing to fill up the judgment of God’s wordupon yourself, and those that hearken to your de¬ception, as is to be seen in Mark xiii. 22, by seek¬ing to deceive the elect of God, teaching them theyare only fools who contend about election, andwho are for striving to make it sure to themselves.For that, Sir, of seeking to deceive the elect ofGod, to make them throw themselves down fromB 216dependence on God’s electing love in Christ to de¬pend on their own endeavours, to be in a state ofgrace to-day or damnation to-morrow, as Arminiandoctrine teaches, is as impossible as it was for thedevil to deceive Christ, when he wanted him tocast himself down from a pinnacle of the temple,in confidence of angels’ support. Whoever mayreceive and depend on your damnable doctrine,must be vessels of wrath, fitted for destruction, as inRom. ix. 22, for it is not the elect, chosen to sal¬vation, can receive it. And though I have verylittle expectation that any thing I have wrote untoyou will do any thing to break the snare of your de¬lusion, and bring yon out from that erroneous con¬nection with which you are joined, yet, as I con¬sider it my duty to give you this warning, so it isin the discharge thereof that I send this unto you,whatever be the effect; and though Popish and Me¬thodist Priests do not think it worth their while toanswer my Letters, yet there are others who thinkthey should be answered, and would be answered,if you, as evil doers, did not find quietness the bestsubstitute for hiding nefarious deeds which cannotbear the light. And, to such, I mean to give yourLetters to read, in order to be up with your pulpiteloquence, that those who hear you may hear mealso; and if you have any thing to say for yourselfbefore they go to the press, I shall be glad to hearit, and it will much oblige, &c.”Copy of a Letter to a respectable Professor, in consequence of bisattending, and exhorting to attend, Mr. M‘.“ Greenock, 16th Feb. 1818.“ Sir—Though your acquirements and respect¬ability make it appear to some too presuming in meeither to write unto you or expect an answer from17you, yet all that cannot satisfy me that I am dis¬charged from that duty. Having heard of yourfrequent attendance on the Methodist Preacher,Mr. Mc., nay, of your exhortation of others to at¬tend him, it fills me with horror at your conduct,when I consider their damnable errors, and hear oftheir open avowed vindication of these in pri¬vate: such as, they would rather be Jews, Turks,Deists, or even Atheists, than be a Calvinist, tobelieve that God chose his elect in Christ before thefoundation of the world, as in Eph. i. 4—thatChrist came to seek and to save all those only, as hislost sheep, as Matt. xv. 24, John xvii. 9, show toevery man not fearfully hardened against Scriptureevidence.“ If you have any care either for yourself orothers, to attend to these words, Proverbs xix. 27,you may read in the works of Wesley and Fletcher,standard Methodists, they hold the holy law of Godas an anti-evangelic law, and that there is an evan¬gelic law of love opposed to that holy law of God,whereby Methodists have a power and freedom ofwill, not only to obtain life, but even in this life toattain to sinless perfection. For confirmation ofthis, see Wesley’s Christian Perfection, page 223:‘ Mistakes and infirmities that flow from the cor¬ruptible body, are not contrary to this law of love,and therefore are no sin. The truth is, in a stateof perfection every desire is in subjection to the obe¬dience of Christ. The will is entirely subject to thewill of God, and the affections wholly fixed onhim.’—Page 239. I judge it is as impossible thisman should be deceived herein, as that God shouldlie!“ Were you to condescend to answer my Letter,you would, no doubt, say, you hear no such doc¬trine from Mr. M‘., neither will you receive it.18All this I allow may be: Mr. M£. is a better poli¬tician than to waste his shot where this is no hope ofsuccess; and you are the more criminal in the sightof God, and every understanding Christian, tolead, by your example and exhortation, poor sillythings into their private traps, who cannot resistbeing the children of error, and such twofold chil¬dren of hell as heaven will never admit. I have thecharity to believe your having heard from Mr. M‘.that doctrine and zeal you approve, and wish to in¬culcate in others, was your end in attending, andexhorting others to attend, without considerationof his reserved errors, and the consequences above.But let not that strengthen you to think no evilthereof, or that you may dwell in safety where Sa¬tan’s seat is, and the doctrine of Balaam and theNialations are held, though not publicly taught.If you read Rev. ii. 16, you will find you are therecalled to repent, and, if not, to expect the quickappearance of the Lord, to fight against you withthe sword of his mouth. And I am much mistaken,if easy unconcerned professors for the afflictions ofJoseph, shall long escape the righteous judgmentsof God. A bloody sword to Scotland! so longforetold by his servants, and now so near, that thereare few professors in Scotland who do not scorn atthe idea of God manifesting himself in such an ex¬traordinary way to his people as to let them see andforetel things to come. For, say they, the canonof Scripture is now finished, and extraordinary giftsceased, therefore, where is the coming of thosejudgments foretold? But this is no new thing for apeople destined to destruction. Had not the ante-deluvians, the Sodomites, and the unbelievingJews, been so strengthened, they might have gotrepentance, and escaped destruction.I hope, Sir, you will pardon my freedom in19thus writing unto you; and, if it has the effect oimaking you judge yourself, and retrace your steps,1 shall be glad to hear it.« Your most obedient Servant.7.ei.