HISTORY OF»r. FJlUSTimSHEW11SGlis wicked Life and horrid Death, and how hedd himself to the devil, to have power for 24ears, to do what he pleased also many strangelings done by him with the assistance ofMEPHOSTOFHIIiES.Vith an account how the devil came for him atthe end of 24 years, and tore him to pieces.GLASGOWPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.$IO"N fiB'i f: iii i :' : by >U; .I5o • •. ij^Jafeefi &it> dj mid 7:i o«of> a-«.gar i1.h**oT8oh*i :-i icr^>ia.u:w>iooti .-iht ao?: qa'r/^KH:3THEHISTORYovDR. JOHN FAUSTUS.CHAP. I.Dr. Faustus’ birth and education: with an ac¬count of his falling from the Scriptures.Doctor john faustus was born in Germany;his father was a poor labouring man, not able tobring up his son John : but he had a brother inthe same country, who was a very rich man, buthad never a child, and took a great fancy to hiscousin, and he resolved to make a scholar of him ;and in order thereunto, put him to the iatin school,where he took his learning extraordinary well |afterwards he put him to the University to studydivinity ; btat Faitstus co*ld in no ways fancy thatemployment^ wherefore he betook himself to thestudying of that which his inclination is most for,via. Necromancy and Conjuration, and in a lit-4tie time, few or none eould outstrip him in theart; He also studied Divinity : of which he wasmade Doctor; but within a short time fell intosuch deep fancies and cogitations, that he resol¬ved to throw the scriptures from him, and betakehimself wholly to the studying of necromacyand conjuration, charms and sooth-saying, witch¬craft, and the like., .1 /iAHJCHAP II.How Dr. Faustus conjured up the devil, makeing him appear at his own houseFaustus, whose mind was to study conjuration,the which he followed night and day; he tookthe wings of an eagle, and endeavoured to fly ov¬er the world, to see and know all the secrets olheaven and earth: so that in a short time, he at¬tained power to command the devil to appear be¬fore him when he pleased. One day as Dr.Faustus was walking in a wood near to Wirtem-berg, in Germany, he having a friend with himwho was desirous to know of the Doctor’s art,he desired him to let him see if he could then andthere bring Mephostophiles before him ; all whicht-be Doctor imme^ately did, and the dry’d uponthe first call, made such a noise in the wood, asif heaven and earth would have come together;then the devil made such a roaring as if the woodhad been full of wild beasts. The Doctor madea circle for the devil, the which circle the devilran round, making a noise as if ten thousand wag¬gons had been running upon paved stones. Af-this it thundered and lightened, as if the wholeworld had been on fire. Faustus and his friendamazed at this noise, and the devil’s long tarry¬ing, thought to leave his circle; whereupon hemade him such music, the like was never heardin the world: This so ravished Faustus that hebegan again to conjure Mephostophiles in thename of the prince of the devils, to appear in hisown likeness; whereupon in an instant, hungover his head a mighty dragon. Faustus callsagain after his former manner, after which therewas a cry in the wood as if hell had opened, andall the tormennted souls had been there; Faustusin the mean while, asked the devil many ques¬tions, and commanding him to show many dia¬bolical tricks.CHAP. III.How Mephostophiles came to Dr. Fausn.*’-.house and what happened between them.Faustus commanding the spirit to meet him athis house by ten of the clock the next day. Atthe hour appointed he came into his chamber,.asking Faustus what he would have; Faustustold him, it was his will and pleasure to conjurehim to be obedient to him in all points of thoseticles, viaFirst, That the spirit should serve him in allthings he asked, from that time till his death.Secondly, Whatsoever he would have, heshould bring him.Thirdly, Whatsoever he desired to know, heshould tell him.The spirit answered him and said he had nosuch power of himself, until he had acquaintedhis prince that ruled over him : “ For” said he,“ we have rulers over us that send us out, andcommand us home when they please: and wecan act no further than our power is, whichw'e receive from Lucifer, who, you know, forhis pride was thrust out of heaven. But saith6the spirit, lam not to teli you any more ex¬cept you make yourself Over to us.”Whereupon Faustus said, “ I will have myequest ? but yet I will not be damned with you.”Then said the spirit, “You must not, nor shallnot have your desire, and yet thou art mine andall the world connot save thee out of my bauds.”'Then said Faustus. “ Get thee hence, and lconjure thee, that thou come to me at night.”The spirit then vanished. Faustus then beganto consider, how he might obtain his desire, andnot give his soul to the devil.And while Faustus were in these his devilishcogitations., night drew on, and this hellish spiritappeared to Faustus, acquainting him, that nowhe had g6t orders from his prince to be obedientto him, and to do for him whatsoever he desired,provided he would promise to be his, and withalto acquaint him first, what he would haVe of him?Faustus replied, that his desire was to becoine aspirit, and that Mephostophiles should be always-at Ins command; that whatsoever he called forhim, he shall appeal- invisible to all then, andthat he should appear in what shape he pleasedto which the spirit answered, that all his desiresshould he granted if he would sign those articles,he should wish or ask for: whereupon Dr. Faus¬tus withdrew and stabbed his wrist receiving theblood in a small saucer, which cooled so last, asif it forwarned him of the hellish act he was go¬ing to commit; nevertheless he put it over em¬bers to warm it, and wrote as follows.“ I, John Faustus, approved doctor of divin¬ity, w ith my own hand do acknowledge and tes¬tify myself to become a servant to Lucifer,Prince of Septenrional and Oriental, and to himI freely and voluntarily give both soul; in con¬sideration for the space of twenty four years, if Ibe served in all things which I shall require, orwhich is reasonable by him to be allowed j at theexpiration of which time from the date ensuing,I give to him all power to do with me at hispleasure; to rule to retch and carry me wherehe pleases body and soul; hereupon I defy Godand Christ, and the host of angels and goodspirit’s all living creatures that bear his shape,or on whom his image is imprinted; and to thebetter strengthening the validity of this covenantand firm agreement between us, I have writ itwith my blood, and subscribe my name to it,calling all the powers and infernal potentates towitness it is my true intent and meaning.”JOHN FAUSTUS.CHAP IV.What happened to Faustus after the signingof the articlesWhen Faustus had made an end of his writinghe called Mephostophiles to him, and deliveredhim the bond; whereupon the spirit told him ifhe did not repent of what he had done, he shouldenjoy all the pleasure his thoughts could form,and that he would immediately divert him, Hecaused a kennel of hounds to run down a hart inthe hall, and vanished: then a bull danced beforeFaustus, also there wras a lion and a bear, whichfell to fighting before Faustus, and the lion des¬troyed the bear: after that came a dragon anddestroyed the lion. And this, with abundanceof more pastime, did the spirit present to thedoctor’s view, concluding with all manner ofmusic, with some hundreds of spirits, which cameand danced before Faustus. After the musicwas over, and Faustus began to look about him,he saw ten sacks full of silver, which he went todispose of, but could not, for none could handleit but himself, it was so hot. This pastime sopleased Faustus, that he gave Mephostophile*9the ’.vill that he had made, and kept a copy of t*in his own hands. The spirit and Faustus be¬ing agreed, they dwelt together, and the devil. was in their house-keeping for there was neverany thing given aWay to poor, which held itFaustus made this contract was frequently done,but the case is now altered.CHAP. \[low Faustus served the Duke of Bavaria,m jtcii R nwoh tan oj - hi ued V. Isnnod j: hwirr •Faustns having sold his soul to the devil, itwas reported among his neighbours, so that nonewould keep him company, but his spirit playingmerry tricks for to please him. Not far fromFausttis’s house lived the Duke of Bavaria, theDuke of Saxony, and the Bishop of Salisburgh,whose houses and cellars Mephostophiles used tovisit, and to bring the best of every thing theyhad : one day the Duke of Bavaria invited mostof the gentry of the country to dinner, for whoseentertainment, there was abundance of provisiongot ready. The gentry being come, and readyto sit down to dinner, in an instant Mephostoph¬iles came and took all away with him, leaving10thv'4ii full, of iKknisatioii. If any time Fauntinliiinu for wild fowl, the spirit would callwhole flocks in at a window ; also the spirit didteach Faustus to do the like so that no lock norkey could keep them out. The devil also taughtFaustus to fly in the air and to act many thingsthat are incredible, and too large for this smallhook to contain.CHAP. VI.How Dr. Faustus dreamed of hell in lus sleepand what he saw there.. After Faustus had a long conference with hisspirit concerning the fall of Lucifer, and thestate and condition of all the fallen angels, he,in a vision or dream, saw hell and all the devilsand souls that were tormented there ; he saw helldivided into several cells, or deep holes; and forevery .cell, or deep ward, there was a devil ap¬pointed to punish those that were under his cus¬tody. Having, seen this sight, he much mai-velled, at it; and at that time Mephostophilesbeing with him, he asked him what sort of peo¬ple they were that lay in the first dark pit; then11Mephostophiles 4old him they were those whopretended themselves to be physicians, and whohad poisoned many thousands to try practise;and now" saith tlie spirit they have just the same .administered to them, which they gave to othersthough not with the same effect, for they willnever die here saith he. Over their heads wasa shelf laden with gallipots full of poison. Hav¬ing past them he came to a long entry exceeding ;dark where there was a mighty crowd, he asked Ihim what those were ? and the spirit told himthey weie pick-pockets; who loved to be in acrowd, when they were in the other world, andto content them they put them in a crowd there,amongst them were some padders on the highway, and those of that function. Walking far¬ther he saw many thousands of vintners, andsome millions of taylors, in so much that theycould not feel where to get stowage for them ; agreat number of pastry cooks w'ith peels on then-heads. Walking farther, the spirit opening agreat cellar door, from which arose a terriblenoise, he asked what they were; the spirit toldhim they were witches, and those who had beenpretended Saints in the other world; but howthey did squabble, fight, and tear one an other!Not far from them lay the whore mongers andadulterers, who made such a hideous noise, that12lie was rery much startled. Walking down afew steps he espied an incredible number almosthid with smoke; he asked what they were ? thespirit told him they were millers and bakers ; butgood lack, what a noise was there among them !The millers crying to the bakers, and the bakerscrying to the millers for help, but all was in vain,for there was none to help them. Passing onstill farther, he saw thousands of shopkeepers,some of whom he knew, who were tormented fordefrauding aud cheating their customers. Hav¬ing taken this prospect of Hell, the spirit Me-phostophiles took him in his arms, and carriedhim home to his own house, when he awaking,he was amazed at what he saw in his dream. Sobeing come to himself, he asked the spirit in whatplace Hell was, and who made it ? Mephostoph-iles answered, “ Knowest thou, that before thefall of Lucifer, there was no hell, but upon hisfall, was hell ordained. As for the substance ofhell, we devils do not know ; it is the wrath ofGod that makes hell so furious, and what weprocured by our fall; but where hell is, or howit is governed, and whatsoever thou desirest toknow, when thou comest there thou shalt be sat¬isfied as far as we know ourselves13CHAP; VII.Containing some tricks of Dr. Faustus.Dr. Faustus having attained the desire of hisspirit, had now full power to act or do any thingwhatever he oleased ; upon a time the Emperorhad a desire to see him, and likewise some of theDoctor’s tricks: whereupon he was requested bythe Emperor, to do somewhat to make him mer¬ry ; but the Doctor in the meanwhile looking a-round him he at last espied a great lord lookingout at a window, and the Doctor calling his spir¬it to help him, he in an instant fastened ? targepair of hornsupon the Lord’s head, that he couldnot get his head in till Faustus took off the hornsagain which were soon taken off invisibly; TheLord whom Faustus served so, was extremelyvexed, and resolved to be revenged on the Doc¬tor, and to that end lay a mile out of town forFaustus’s passing by, he being that day to departfor the country ; Faustus coming by a wood side,!beheld that Lord mounted upon a mighty war¬like horse, who run hill drift against Faustus,who, by the assistance of his spirit, took him andall, and carried before the Emperor’s palace, and14grafted a pair of horns on his head as big as anOx’s; which he could never be rid of, but worethem to his dying day.How Faustus eat a load of Hay.Faustus upon a time having many doctors andmasters of arts with him. went to walk in thefields, where they met with a load of hay ; “ How-now good Fellow,” saitb Faustus, “ what shall Igive thee to fill my belly with hay ?” The Clow nthought he had been a madman to talk of eatinghay, told him he should fill his belly for onepenny; to which the doctor agreed, and thenfell to eating-, and quickly devouring half of theload : at which the doctor’s companions laughed,to see how simply the poor country fellow look¬ed, and to hear how heartily he prayed the doc¬tor to forbear; so Faustus pitying the poofman, went away, and before the man got nearIds bouse, all the hay was in the cart, that thedoctor had eaten, which made the country fel¬low very much admire.CHAP. VIII.CHAP IX.How he struck a parcel of Students who werefighting together, blind ; and how he serveda parcel of Clowns who were singing and ran¬ting at an inn.Thirteen Students meeting with seven more,near Dr. Faustus’s house, fell to extremely firstin words and at last to blows; the thirteen be¬ing too hard for the seven, and Dr. Faustuslooking out at his window and seeing the. frayand how much they were over matched, conjur¬ed them all blind, so that the one could not seethe other, and in this manner they fought oneanother, which made all that saw them laugh :at length the people parted them, and led themto their chambers, they instantly received theirsight—-The doctor coming into an inn with somefriends, was disturbed by the hallowing and baw¬ling of a parcel of drunken Clowns, whereuponwhen their mouths were wide open, he so con¬jured them, that by no means they could shutthem again; and after they had stared one uponanother, without being able to speak, thinkingthey were bewitched, they dropped away in a16contused fear, one by one, and never could begot to the house afterwards.CHAP. X.How Faustus helped a young man to a fair lady.There was a gallant young gentleman whowas in love with a fair lady, living at Wirtem-berg, near the doctor’s house, this gentleman hadlong sought this lady in marriage, but could notattain his desire, and having placed his affectionsso much upon her, he was ready to pine away,and had certainly died with grief, had he notmade his address to the doctor, to whom he open¬ed the whole matter. Now no sooner had thegentleman told his cause to the doctor, but he toldhim that he need not be afraid, for his desireshould be fulfilled, and that he should have her,whom he so much desired, and that this gentle¬woman should have none but him, which wasaccordingly done, for the doctor so changed hermind, that she could think of nothing else buthim whom before she hated; and Faustus’s de¬sire was this; he gave him an enchanted ringwhich be ordered him to put into the lady’s hand.or* to *trj> it ©ftih^iMfingeii, which he dhl: and no bsooner had she got the ring than her heart burnedwith love to him; she instead of frowns, could do dnothino- but smile upon him, and not be at rest jtill she asked him if he thought he could loveher, and make her his-wife ? he gladly answeredwith all his heart. So they were married the nextday, and all by the help of Dr. Faustus.CHAP. XI.How Faustus made seven women dance nakedin the Market placeFaustus walking in the market-place, saw sev¬en women sitting all in a row, selling eggs, but¬ter, &c. Of ever<mehe bought something anddeparted: no sooner was he gone, but all the eggsand buttery were gone out of of their baskets andthey knew not how: at last they were told, thatDr. Faustus had conjured their goods away jthey thereupon ran speedily to the Doctor’shouse, and so demanded satisfaction for the ware;he resolving to make himself and the town’s peo-ole merry by his conjuring art, made them re¬turn to their baskets naked as ever they were19born: and having danced a while in the marh/. tplace every one’s goods were conjured into then-baskets again, and they set at liberty.CHAP. Xi,How Faustus served a Country Fellow who wa3driving Swine.Dr. Faustus, as he was going to Wirtembergovertook a Country Fellow driving an hundredSwine, who were very headstrong some runningone way and (some another; so that the drivercould not tell how to get them drove along: thedoctor taking notice of it, so by his conjuring'art, he. made everyone of them dance upon.theirtwo hind legs, with a fiddle in one of their foiefeet, and with the other fore foot they played up¬on the fiddle, and so they danced and fiddled allthe way until they came intq Wirtemberg mar¬ket. The driver of them dancing all the waybefore them, which made the people wonder: af¬ter the Doctor had satisfied himself with the spir¬it he conjured all of the fiddles away, and thedriver then ofl’ered them for sale, and quickly soldthem all, and tqflk the money ; but before he was20gone out of the house Faustus had conjured allthe hogs out of the market-place, and sent themall home to the driver’s house. The man whobought them, seeing all the swine gone, stoppedthe man who sold them and would have his mon¬ey, which he was forced to pay, and so returnedhome sorrowful, and not knowing what to do ;out to his great surprise, found all the swine intheir sties.CHAP. XIII.How Faustus begun to bethink himself of thenear approach of his end.Faustus having spun out his twenty-four years,within a month or two, began to consider whathe should do to cheat the devil, but could notfind any way to prevent his miserable end, whichwas now near, whereupon he thus cries out tohimself, Oh! miserable wretch that I am, I havegiven myself to the devil, for a few years pleas¬ure, and now I must pay full dear; I have hadmy desires; my filthy lusts I have satisfied, andI must be tormented for ever and ever.A neighbour of his a very gotfd old man hoar-21mg of his way of living, in compassion to hissoul came to him, and with tears in his eyes, be¬sought him to have more regard to his most pre¬cious soul, laying before him the promise ofGod’s grace and mercy, freely offered to repent¬ing sinners, and spake so feelingly, that Faustusshed tears, and promised to him, that he wouldtry to repent. This good man wars no soonergone away, than Mephostophiles found him pen¬sive and on his bed, now Mephostophiles mus¬tering what had happened, began to reproachhim with breach of covenant to his Lord Luci¬fer, and thereupon almost twisted his neck be¬hind him, which made him cry out very lament¬able ; in the meantime threatening to tear himto pieces, unless he renewed his obligation, whichfor fear, with much sorrow he did, in a mannerthe same as the former, which he confirmed bydie latter.CHAP. XIVHow Dr. Faustus was warned of the Spirit toprepare for his end.Faustus’s full time being come, tne spirit ap-22peared to him, and shewed him his writing, andtold him that the next night, the devil wouldfetch him away, which made the Doctor’s heartto ache: but to divert himself, he sent for someDoctors and master bachelors of arts, and otherstudenfs to take dinner with him, for whom heprovided great store of varieties, with music andthe Mke: but all would not keep up his spir¬its, for the hour drew near : whereupon his coun¬tenance changing the doctors and masters ofarts enquired of him the reasons of his Melan-chohness? to which Faustus answered, “ Myfriends* you have known me these many years andhow l hpve practised all manner of wickednessI have been a great conjurer* which devilish art! obtained of the the devil; and also to obtainpower to do whatever I pleased I sold myself tothe devil for twenty four years time, which fuhtime being out this night, makes me full of hor¬ror ; I have called you my friends, to see this mydreadful end : and I pray let my miserable deathbe a warning to you all, how you study the devilish art of conjuring; for if once you begin ita thousand to one but it will lead you to the devil whither I am this night to go, whether I wi)or not.” They: hearing of this sad story blamehim for concealing it so long, telling him if hhad; made tlrem acquainted before that the23thought it might have been prevented. He toldthem he had a desire several times to have dis¬closed this intrigue; but the devil told him, thatif he did, he would presently fetch- him away ;he also told them, he had a desire to join withthe godly, and to leave off that wicked course;but immediately the devil used to come and tor¬ment him, &c. “ But now, saith Faustus, it isbut in vain for me to talk of what I did intend,for 1 have sold myself to the devil, body and soulis his.” No sooner had he spoken these words,but suddenly it fell a thundering and lightening,the like was never heard; whereupon Faustuswent into the great hall, the doctors and mas¬ters staying in the next room, intending to hearhis end. About twelve o’clock the house shookso terribly that they thought it would have beendown upon them, and suddenly the housewindows were broken to pieces, so that they trem¬bled and wished themselves elsewhere whereup¬on a great clap of thunder, with a whirlwind thedoors flew open, and a mighty rushing of windentered with the hissing of serpents, shrieks andcries, upon which he lamentably cried out, Mur¬der, and there was such roaring in the hall as ifall i,he devils in hell had been there. When day¬light appeared, they took the boldness to entermto the room, and found his brains beaten out24against the wall, and the floor sprinkled withblood; but missing his body they went in searchot it and found it on the dung-hill mangled andmashed to pieces. So ended this miserablewretch’s life, forsaking God, and all goodness,and given up to his implacable enemy whichwe hope may stand not only as a fearful, butlasting monument and warning to others