rIOPSIR WILLIAMTHE 'tor y±°vr4*4r"fjfa*«r4*4> GLASGOW : v, W I I, I, f a M ' .¥ IS «* ®,jT5, Melville P ace, 132, Trung ate,AFT$S O T B rn%°TSr4"MAIJJIW E0E Tr-t1C >. f -C •''• I! ,jvVH. A^ «i *jviuv'- v ,~'~ I {'i'jJ' 'V •'ss®.4 WTHEHISTORYo*Sir WW^iSHatn fWUiiiftce,Edward tftfe First of England, soon afterthe death of Alexander th£ Third, King ofScotland, taking advantage of the dissen¬sions among the nobles, and the weaknessof the reigning; monarch, John Baliol,invaded Scotland with a powerful army.After compelling John Baliol to do homagelor the crown, and placing English garrisonsin all the fortresses, he departed for England,leaving Scotland, as he thought in peace andquietness. - s i4The oppression and cruelty, howeverof the men left as governors of the differentgarrisons, roused the spirit of the people,who only wanted the presence of someenterprising leader to rise up in a bodyagainst the English, and recover the libertyof their country.At this momentous period, such a leaderrose in the person of Sir William Wallace,renowned in Scottish story.This remarkable man was none of thehigh nobles of Scotland, but the son of aprivate gentleman called Wallace of Eller-slie, in Renfrewshire near Paisley.The power and addiess which he dis¬played,—his various rencounters,—hismiraculous escapes,—and the almost univer¬sal belief in the prediction of Thomas theRhymer, that he was destined to deliverScotland from the tyranny of the English,produced a wonderful sensation among hiscountrymen, and numbers flocked to himfrom all quarters.%5Amongst his early exploits may bementioned the following —When he wasvery young, he went a-fishing for sport inthe river of Irvine, near Ayr. He hadcaught a good many trouts, which werecarried by a boy, who attended him witha fishing-basket, as is usual with anglers.Two or three English soldiers, who belongedto the garrison of Ayr, came up to Wallace,and insisted, with their usual insolence, ontaking the fish from the boy. Wallace wascontented to allow them a part of thetrout, but he refused to part with t! e wholabasketful. The Soldiers insisted, and fromwords came to blows. Wallace had nobetter weapon than the butt-end ol his f sh-ing-rod ; but he struck the foremost ol theEnglishmen so hard under the ear with it,that he killed him on the spot; and g ttingpossession of his sword, he fought with somuch fury that he put the others to flight,and brought home his fish safe and sound.The English Governor of Ayr sought for/t , *• I -'J -him, to punish him with death for thisaction ; but Wallace lav concealed amongthe bills and great woods till the matter wasforgotten, and then appeared in other partsof the count* y.The a tion, hovever, which occasionedhis h nailrising in arms, happened in thetown of Lanark. Wallace was at this timemarried to a lady of that place, and residedthere with his wife. It chanced, as hewalked in the market-place, di-essed. in agreen garment, with a rich dagger by hisside, that an Englishman came up andinsulted him on Account of his linen,;saying, a tScotchman had no business towear so gay a dress, or cany so handsomea weapon. This produced a quarrel, andWallace drew his sword, thurst the English¬man through the body; and afterwards tiedto his own house, which was speedilyassaulted by all the English soldiers. Whilethey w7ere endeavouring to force their wavin at the front of the house, Wallace2/7escaped at a Lack-door, and got m safetyto a rugged and rocky glen, called theCart!and Crags.tp the meantime, the governor of Lanark,whose name was Hazelrigg, burned Wal¬lace’s house, and cruelly put his wife andservants to death; and, by doing tins,increased to the highest pitch the hatredwhich Wallace had always borne againstthe English. Hazelrigg alsa proclaimedhim an outlaw, ana offered a reward to anyone. who should bring him to air Enghshgarrison, alive or dead.About this time is said to have takenplace.a memorable event, which thg Scottishpeople c dl the Barns of Ayr. It is said theEptdish governor of Ayr had invited (K£greatest part of th.e Scottish nobility andgentry in the western parts to meet himat some large buildings called the Barnsof Ayr, for the purpose of friendly con¬ference upon the affairs of the nation. Buithe English Earl entertained treacherousri8purpose of putting the Scottish gentlemento ('eath. The English soldiers had halterswith running nooses ready prepared, andhung upon the beams which supported theroof, and as the Scottish gentlemen wereadmitted by two and two at a time, thenooses were thrown over their heads, andthey were pulled up by the neck, and thushanged or strangled to death. Among thosewho wrere slain in this base and treacherousmanner was, it is said Sir Ronald Crawford■’f P O * - ft t r * I r r * 9Sheriff of the county of Ayr, and uncleSir William Wallace.When Wallace heaCrd of what had be¬fallen, he\vas dreadfully enraged, ana collect¬ing his men in a wood near to the town 01Ayr, he resolved to be revenged on theauthors of this great crime. The Englishin the meanwhile, made much feasting, andwhen they had eaten and drank plentifully,they lay down to sleep in the same largebarns in which they had murdered theScottish gentlemen. But Wallace, learning9that they kept no guard or watch, not sus*pecting there were any enemies so nearthem, directed a woman, who knew theplace, to mark with chalk the doors of thelodgings where the Englishmen lay. Thenhe sent a party of men, who, with strongropes, made all the doors so fast on theoutside, that those within could not openthem. On the outside the Scots had pre¬pared heaps of straw, to which they set fire,and the Barns of Ayr, being themselvesmade of wood, were soon burning in abright flame. Then the English wereawakened, and endeavoured to get outto save their lives. But the doors weresecured on the outside, and bound fast withropes; and, besides, the blazing houseswere surrounded by the Scots, who forcedthose who got out to run back into the fire,or .else put them to death on the spot; andthus great numbers perished miserably.Wallace now at the head of a consider¬able army, being informed that the10English were approaching Stirling, he stat¬ioned his army upon the northern sideof the river Forth, near that town. TheEnglish general approached the banks ofthe river from the southern side; andimagining that Wallace might be inducedby fair means to lay down his arms, dis¬patched two Friars to the Scottish campwith terms of capitulation.—“ Return,” saidWallace, “ and tell your masters, that wecame not here to treat, but to assert ourrights, and to set Scotland free. Let themadvance, they will find us prepared.”The English, provoked at .this answer,demanded impatiently to be led on tobattle.The Earl of Warren, a brave soldier,remonstrated against making a numerousarmy pass by a long narrow bridge in pres¬ence of the enemy. His advice, however,being rejected by Cressingham, the Englisharmy began to pass over; which was nosooner perceived by Wallace, than, before11they could form themselves on the plain tothe north of the bridge, he nishe/f down uponthem, and broj<e their ranks in a moment.Many thousands were slain on the field, ordrowned in the river in their rlight; amongthe former was Cressingham, the treasurer.His dead body was treated with great indig¬nity by the Scots, who justly hated him forhis tyranny and rapacity, and who, it is saidafter his death, made use of his skin forgirths to their saddles.The remains of Warren's great army fledout of Scotland after this defeat; and theScots, taking arms on all sides, attacked theCastles in which were English garrisons,and took most of them; but as a famine wasnow raging in Scotland, Wallace marchedwith his whole army into England, that hemight in some measure relieve the neces¬sities of his countrymen, and retaliate uponthe enemy the miseries they had inflictedupon the Scots.Edward, learning that the Scots were12advancing ^to Falkirk, hastened with hisnumerous army to meet them. At break ofday, the Scottish army was descried formingon a stoney field, at the side of a smalleminence in the neighbourhood of Falkirk.Wallace ranged his infantry in four bodies ofa circular form;—the archers, commandedby Sir John Stewait, being placed in theintervals. Tire horse amounting to no morethan a thousand, were at some distance inthe rear. On the front of the Scots lay amorass. Having drawn up Ifs troops inthis order, Wallace pleasantly said, “Now Ihave brought you tj the ring, dance accord¬ing to your skillmeaning, I ha\ e broughtyou to the decisi e field of battle, let me seehow brarely vou can fight.Bigot, Earl Marshil, at the head of thefirst line, rushed on the chcrge. He waschecked by the morass, which, in hisimpetuosity, he had overlooked ; this obliged. him to incline to the solid g:ound on his lefttowards the right flank of the Scottish body,The Bishop of I'yrham, who led the secondline, inclined to the right, turned the morass,and advanced towards the left flank of theScottish army. He proposed to halt tillthe reserve should advance. “To mass,Bishop! cried Sir Ralph Basset, andinstantly charged. The shock of the Eng¬lish cavalry on each side was violent, butwas most gallantly withstood by the cottishinfantry. The Scottish cavalry, on thecontrary dismayed at the vast superiority innumbers of the English men-at-arms,immediately quitted the field. Stewartwhile giving orders to his archers, wasthrown from his horse and slain ; his archerscrowded round his body, till all perishedwith him, continuing the conflic to the lastwith the greatest bravery, and amply reveng¬ing the loss of their beloved chieftain.Often did the English strive to force theScottish circle. “ They could not penetrateinto that wood of spears,” as one of theirhistorians speaks. By repeated charges,• Hhowever the outermost ranks were broughtto the ground, and the English infantryincessantly galled the Scots with showers ofstones and arrows. The brave Macduff andSir John Graham the bosom friend of Wal¬lace, hod already fallen, when at length theScots u ere broken by the overw'helmingnumbers and weight of the English cavalryand the rout became universal.Wallace now had no alternative, but to'direct, his troops to cross the Canon, andoccupy a position which commanded the ford.In the meantime, With a small, but choicebody of his friends, he kept in the rear, tocover their retreat, and bravely charged andrepulsed those successively that were mostforward in the pursuit. In one of these ef¬forts, Wallace advanced alone, from themidst of his little band, and with a singleblow slew a knight Templar, named Brianle Jay, of high military renown, who hadshown himself most active in the pursuit.Among the number of those who ardently15pressed upon his retreat was Bruce, who haddeserted the Scottish cause, and was nowfighting against, th.em in the ranks of the op¬pressor. Enraged at the sight of a mapwhom he considered, in an especial manner,a traitor to his country, Wallace aimed a blowat his head, which, though it missed him,brought his horse to the ground. He after¬wards effected his retreat across the river, bythe assistance of his trusty follower, Karle.While they were slowly moving along thebanks of the river, Bruce, from the oppositebank having recognised Wallace, raised hisvoiee, and requested an interview. This wasgranted ; and they approached each otherwhere the river was narrow, deep, and rocky.Bruce, although awed by the appearance ofthe hero, upbraided him with entertaining de¬signs upon the crown of Scotland. “No,”replied Wallace, “my thoughts never soaredso high: I only mean to deliver my countryfrom oppression and slavery, and to supporta cause which you have abandoned. But,16•%pause in time; if you have but the heait, youmay yet win a crown with glory, and wearit with justice. I can do neither; but whatI can, I will,—live and die a free-born sub¬ject.These noble sentiments, uttered with afirm and determined tone of voice, made adeep impression on the mind of Bruce. Theconference was, however, suddenly put anend to by the approach of a hostile body ofhorse.The retreat of Wallace from the field ofFalkirk has justly been considered as a mas¬ter piece of generalship. The number ofEnglish present at the engagement is stated,by historians of credit, at ninety thousandmen, while the Scottish force did not amountto one-third of that number. The loss onboth sides, in this battle, must have beenvery great. Amongst the slain on the Scot¬tish side, none was more sincerely mournedthan Sir John the Graham, who, giving way17to his usual gallantry, had advanced too far,and was surrounded and slain.Notwithstandingthese victories however, theKing of England possessed so much wealth,and so many brave soldiers, that he sentarmy after army into Scotland, and obligedthe nobles, one after the other, to submit tohis pbWer. Sir William Wallace, however,with a chosen band of his followers, disdain¬ed to purchase his safety at the expense ofhis hon ur, and refused to ay down his arms.He continued to maintain his ground amongthe woods and mountains of his native coun¬try for no less than seven years after tinbattle of Falkirk, in spite of many proclaim-ations and offers of reward for his apprehen¬sion by the English,—for Edward did notthink himself secure in his possession ofScotland while Wallace lived.He was at length taken prisoner, andshame it is to tell, betrayed and deliveredinto the hands of the English by a Scotch¬man ! Sir John Monteith was the person who18(ftd this treacherous deed. It is generallyunderstood that he was taken prisoner atRobroyston near Glasgow.Edward, ha\;jng thus obtained possessionof the man lie considered as his greatest ob¬stacle in conquering Scotland, resolved tomake Wallace an example to all Scottishpatriots who should afterwards presume tooppose his ambitious projects. For this pur¬pose he caused Wallace to be brought up fortrial at Westminster, before the Englishjudges, crowned in mockery with a greengarland, because dhey said he hod been kingof outlaw s and robbers among the woods ofScotland.He was accused of having been a traitorto the English crown ; to which he answered,“1 could not he a traitor to Edward, for Iwas never his subject.”He was then accused of having killediriany men. He replied with the same calmresolution, “ That it was true he had killedmany Englishrtien, but it was because they19had come to subdue and oppress his nativecountry ; and far from repenting of what hehad done he was only sorry that he had notput to death many more of them.”Nothwithstahdihg that this defence was agood one, the English jtidges condemnedhim to be executed as a traitor. He was ac¬cordingly dragged upon a sledge to the placeof execution, where his head was struck otl,and his body divided into four quarters,which, in conformity to the cruel practice ofthe time, wrere exposed upon pikes of ironi pon London Bridge.,-—his right arm abovethe bridge at Newcastle,—his left arm wassent to Berwick^—his right foot and limb toPerth-; and hisieft quarter to Aberdeen,—andtermed the limbs of a traitor? He was exeut-ed on the 23d of August, 1305.b .uad t20EARLY LOVE.“ New hopes may bloom—new days may come,With milder, calmer beams-But the'c’s iiOthirg half so sweet iniifeAs Love’s young dream.”Never, perhaps, were the vivifying and sti¬mulating effects of happy love more strikinglydisplayed than in the person of EustaceBentinck. At an early age death had brokeup all the tender and endearing relationships,whose society and sympathy constitute theImst blessings of life; and in his twenty-firstyear though he was rich in the gifts of for¬tune and the luxuries of elevated rank, hewas a bankrupt in hope and domestic felicity,and destitute of those treasures which thewealth of kingdoms could not replace. Hedragged on' an irksome and isolated exist¬ence— a prey to the most gloomy recollec¬tions—a burthen to himself, and a source ofanxious uneasiness to those around him. A21.21■morbid sensibility had evidently impairedhis health, and even threatened his life, Hebeheld the noble possessions which had de¬volved on him at the demise of his father,gradually diminish in value, through the ar¬tifices of the dasigning, yet was devoid of theenergy requisite to arrest the progress ofthat ruin which it was too obvious to everyone was approaching. At this period,through the earnest solicitations of a friend,he accepted a lieutenancy in a regiment thatwas marching to Flanders ; yet even the ac¬tivity and dazzling fascinations of a militarylife, failed to arouse him from the overpower¬ing lethargy which clouded his fine mentalfaculties. The army was only desirable tohim, inasmuch as it might prove the mediumof an early termination of his sufferings.The regiment to which he belonged wasquartered at Brussels; and as a young Brit¬ish officer of high birth, and unblemishedreputation, admission to the first circlesnaturally followed. At a ball that was22giren to the military, not long after their ar¬rival, fate introduced him to the daughter ofCaptain Mornington; and that heart whichhad withstood the ensnaring smiles of thebrilliant and fashionable beauties ol the gaymetropolis of"England, instantaneously of¬fered up its devoted homage to the impre-suming, untitled loveliness of Eva Morning-ton. The most happy revolution was im¬mediately conspicuous in his demeanourand disposition; and when, on the eve; ofthe ever memorable battle- of Waterloo, thefearful alarum bell summoned him to theexeeution of his duty, instead of welcom¬ing it, as but a few weeks previous hewould, as the herald of death, it struck onhis appalled ear like: the kiaell of joy anddelight most exquisite. It reached him inthe splendid ball-room. encireiCng in themazy waltz the fairy form of the blushingEva3 he had but time to strain her almostlifeless form to lids heart, and, thrustingthe small white glove which had coveredher snowy arm into his nosom, as a charmthat should preserve him in safety for her,rushed forth. The dreadful action follow¬ed, fatal to so many thousands, hut to.Ben tin ck with o:ly the honourable distinc¬tion of a slight wound in the breast ; andhen the talsmanic glove was restored toits beautiful owner, the few drops of gorethat sullied its delicate hue, were.gems thatenriched it with inestimable value. A yearof refined felicity elapsed before the loVerssealed their faith at the altar. Since thatperiod, il ever perfect and consummatebliss was the lot of human nature, it hasbeen enjoyed by those two favoured indiv¬iduals; and at this moment Eustace Ben-tiuck lives, a stinking example of fortuneretrieved, happiness attained, and even ex¬istence preserved through the magical powerof successful early love.