FAITH’S pleauponGOD’s WORD-ASERMONPREACHEDOn a PREPARATION-DAY, beforethe Sacrament of theLORD’s SUPPERsx Burntiflandy upon 2 Sam. vii. 20.Do as thou haft faid.By the Late ReverendMr. RALPH ERSKINE,Miniiter of the Gofpel, in Dunfermline.The E I G H T EDITION.FALKIRK:Printed and fold by DANIEL REID, \n High^firest,at his Printing-Office, where are alfo fold a greatVariety of Book* and Stationary Ware very ch*ajp(M.DCC.LXXXfJ- JJ. w \FAITH’s PLEAUPONGOD’s WORD.II. SAMUEL vii. -5.— DO AS THOU HAST SAID." 1 ^D/\VID was a Prong believer; andit were our gfeat advantage tofollow him in his faith : and in the wordthat ! hx upon tofpeak a little to, thereare two ways wherein his faith works,1. By believing the divine word, Tbsuhaft (aid. The object and ground offaith is the divine faying ; and faith redsupon a Thus faiib the Lord; it is notupon a Thus feith a man, or thus faitha miniftef ; nay, nor thus faith an angel.— Divine fakh can Hand only upon adivine tefiimony, Thus faith the Lardythou haft ftaid. If you have faith, then.you have received the' word, not as the-word of man, hit as it is indeed the wordof God, which elfeflually works in youthat believe. ..Faith adds by taking God’sword, Thou haft faid,. thou haft promifal,thm: haft ftpoken in thy holinefs.2- Faith acts by pleading the accom-plilhment of the pfomife, Do as thou haftfdi.L God is not a fpeaker only, but adoer; he is not a promifcr, but a per¬former*; and faith looks to a pronuiingGod, that he may be a performing God;and fo puts him to his word..Obser v. That it is the hufinefs of truefaith to take t)od*s wordy and to put himto it.In the illuftration of tliis doctrinal pro-.pofition, we would incline, through di¬vine aid, to elfay briefly the followingthings.I. To (hew, That it is the bufmefs offaith to take God’s word.II. That it is the bufinefi of faith toput him to his word.III. How faith takes the word of God.IV. How it pleads the accompluhmentpf the promife.V. Whence is this the bufmefs of faithto take God at his word, and toput him to his word.*VI. Make application of the whole.I. We are firlt to fhewr That it is theaufinefs of faith to take God’s word, opto take'him at his word : this is plain,becaufe the word is the immediate ol>jeft of faith. We have no other glafswherein to fee God favingly but his word,particularly his word of grace and pro^inife : “ Say not, who lhall afcend toheaven, that is, to bring Chrilt downfrom above : or who fliall defceqd intothe deep, that is, to bring up Chriltgain from the dead. The word is nighthee, even in thy mouth and in thy heart;lb then, faith comes by hearing, andhearing by the word of God,” Rom. x.6, 7, 8. Faith is a relative word, itrelates to the faithfulnefs of the fpeaker: .believing relates to a word to be believ-ed. That it is the bufmcfs of faith totruft in the word of God is evident fromthe whole fcripture.. How many times,Pfal. cxix. doth the, Pfalmift fpeak of“ truftlng in his word, and hoping inhis wordj^and rejoicing in fis word,” andfo taking him at his word.H. We come in the next place to the w,That it is the bufmefs of faith to put himto hiswvord, or to plead the accompliih-ment of his word, that he would do ashe had faid :. this is'evident from Plaintcxix. 49. “ Remember the word untothy fervant, upon which thou haft ca tiledme to hope.” And how many times; J ' : : ' A : doth(. 5 )doth he plead with God to do to himaccording to his word ? “ Quicken meaccording to thy word,” ver. 25. Againand again we have this repeated, as ver.107, 154. “ Strengthen me accordingto thy word,” ver. 28. “ Save me ac¬cording to thy word,” ver. 28. “ Saveme according to thy word,” ver. 41.“ Be merciful to me, according to thyword,” ver. 58. “ Deal well with thyfervant, according tothy word,” ver. 65.“ Let thy merciful kindnefs be my com¬fort, according to thy word,” ver. 76.Give me underlfandiog according tothy word,” ver. 169. “ Deliver me, ac-“ cording to thy word,” ver. 170.—-All comes to this, Do as thou baft [aid.III. We proceed now to fliow, or inwhat manner faith takes the wordof God.1. It takes it by an intelligent appre-henfion of it in the nnderftanding. Theman is taught of God, and gets his eyesopened to fee the faithful faying, andworthy of all acc eptation ; he fees it tobe the word of God, and a word Ipolcenin fca/on to his weary foul. They willnever take the word by faith that donot underftand it. Philip faith unto theeunjich, Undtrjlfindeji thou what thou read-!>i} %( 6 )ejt? So we may lay, Underftandeft thou\vhat thou heart ft?; Are your eyes open¬ed to fee the wonders of his law or doc¬trine ; to fee the glory of Chrift heldout to you in his word.2. Faith takes the word of God bya particular application of it with theheart; ;nfgmuch that it is a cordial ap-prehenhon, or a cordial affent that isgiven to the word ; with the heart manhciieveth unto right conjitefs. Saving lightgoes to the heart. Many have onlytheir heads enlightened, their judgmentsinformed, but not their hearts engaged,nor their affections captivated. FaithiNs a cordial applying the word, arid thatparticularly to the man’s own benefit:whether we call it affurance or not, itcomes to the fame thing: as when inconviCtion the threatening is applied,the man trembles under the fear of hel\and wra.h, becaufe ,he applies the lawthreatening to himfelf, laying, I’m theman to whom this threatening is fpokcn;fo in the day of converfion or believing,the promife is applied, the man Is reliev¬ed with the view of the grace and mer-cy of God in Chrift, hecaufc -he appliesthe gofpel-promife to himfelf, faying,I am the man to whom this promiieis fpoken, and I receive and reft uponChrift for falvation, as he ispromifed oroffered in this gofpel: To me is thisword of falvation.” And if the mandid not take it to himfelf, there wouldbe no believing at all. But then,• IV. The fourth thing propofed, was,to fhew how faith pleads the accom-.plifhrnenL of the promife.r. It pleads upon the mercy thatmade the promife, that it is everlaff-ing mercy, unchangeable mercy; theLord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious'.2. It pleads upon the truth that is tomake out the-promife ; it is called, 7/^rtruth in Jacob, and the mercy to Abraham,Mic. vii. 20, that his name is faithfuland true.3. It pleads upon the* power of thepr«mifer, being fully perfuaded, that hethat hath promifed is able to perform;that he hath not out-promifed his ownpromife, or faid what he cannot do.4. It pleads upon the blood of thecovenant that feals all the promiles there-1 of; hence they are all yea and .amen inChrifl Jefus.i 5- It pleads upon the lovo of God to! Chrift; this is to pray in his name, thati God, for the love he bears to Chrifl:,would do as he hath _( 8 ).6. It pleads upon the unchanoeahld-nefs of God and of his word: that histvord endureth for, ever, and that he fsGod, and changes not, therefore the fans"fl acoh arc not cunfnmed.7. In a word, it pleads upon his oath^Heb. vi. it. “ God, willing more a-• bundantly to fhew unto the heirs of pro*-mife the immutability of his counfel, liathconfirmed it by an oath, that by- twoimmutable things, in which it was im-polfible for God to lie, we might havellrong confolation, who have fled forrefuge, :t.o lay hold upon the hope fetbefore us.,,S. Aild laftly, It pleads upon his name,What 'nuUt thou do for thy great name.V. The fifth thing propofed, was, Tofhew whence is this the bufinefs of faithto take God at his word, and to puthim to his word. Why ? — Becaufe,1. It is the end and defign of God ingiving bis word ; Thefe things arc writ¬ten, and fpoken, that we may believe inthe Son of God, and that believing we mighthave life in his name. Johnxx. 31. Thegofpel is preached in vain, if men donot take God at his word, and thenhang upon it.2. Becaufe ;2. Becaufe thus we glorify God ;and the more we reft upon the divineWord, the more we glorify him: Abra¬ham was Jirong in faith, giving glory toGod. We give him the honour of histruth, and other perfections this way.3. Becaufe thus we engage the ho¬nour of God upon our fide: when weput him to his word, his honour is en¬gaged, he cannot deny himfelf.4. Becaufe faith hath no other wayof living but upon the word of God :“ Man liveth not by bread alone, butevery word that proceedeth out of themouth of God. Thy word was foundof me, and I did eat it. This is my com¬fort in my affliction, thy word hath quic¬kened me.”VI. The laft thing propofed was theapplication of the fubjeCt, which indeedwas the principal thing intended. Hereis a fit exercife before the folemn com¬munion-work, to go to God and fay,0 do as thou hajl faid. Confider vs hathe hath faid, and take him at his word,and put him to it, that he would do tohim accordingly. Whatever your cafebe, furely there is fome word relativet«» it.CSome( «° )Some may be thinking. Alas! Godhath faid nothing to me, that I maypot him to his word. Why, man, if thegofpel that is the Bible, be preached toyou, and if there be any word of gracetherein fuitable to your cafe, then putnot away the word from you, but takeit, and plead upon it, that God woulddo as he hath faid. If you can fee anyword of promife fuited to your cafe,and to your need, then put to yourhand by faith, and lay hold upon hisword.Oh ! fay you, is there any word fromGod about my cafe, who am a poorneedy creature like to ftarve for wantof a fpiritual meal, and a hearty draughtof the living waters that go out fromJerufalem. What hath God faid, orhath he faid any thing concerning me ?Yea, he hath faid, Ifai. xli. 17, 13.“ When the poor and needy feek wa¬ter, and there is none, and their tonguefaileth for thirft, I, the Lord, willl hearthem, I, the God of Ifrael, will notforfakc them. I will open rivers in dryplaces, and fountains in die midft of thevaiiies. I will make the wildernefs apool of water, and the dry land fpringsof water/’ — Hath he faid fo ? Thentake( >' )take him at his word, put him to it,faying, Lord, do as thou haji faid.Oh ! but is there any word from Godfor me, who have been long waiting forordinances, and never yet feen his glory,as I would defire to fee it ? What hathhe faid concerning me ? Why, he hathfaid, that he waits that he may be gra¬cious, that he is a God of judg?nent, andbkjfed are all they that wait for him, Ifai.xxx. 18. He hath faid, “ The vifion isfor an appointed time, but at the endit will fpeak and not lie : though it tarry.Wait for it; becaufe it will furely come,and not tarry, Hab. i. 3.—Hath he faidfo ? Then take him at his word, andput him to it, faying, Do as thou hajl faid.But is there any word from God con¬cerning my cafe, that find my confcienccchallenging me for prodigious guilt ? Hearwhat he faith, Heb. viii. 12. “I will bemerciful to your unrighteoufnefs, andyour fins and your iniquities will I re¬member no more. Ifai. xliii. 25. I,even I, am he that blotteth out thytranfgreffions for mine own fake, andwill not remember thy fins.”—O then!take hold of his word, wherein he pro¬claims indemnity, and put him to it,faying, Lord, da as thou haft faid.( 12 )But, fays another, is there any v/oi'dfrom God concerning me, that am com¬pared about with ftrong corruptions and^conquering lufte, that fin gets the matteryover me ? Would you be delivered ?Hear what he faith, Mic. vii. 19. “ Hewill fubdue our iniquities, and will callour fins into the depths of the fea. Rom,,vi. 14. Sin fliall not have dominion overyou, for ye are not under the law, butunder grace. Ifai. Ixiii. 4. The day otvengeance is in mine heart, and the yearof my redeemed is come.” — Hath hepromifed to take vengeance on yourlulls? Then take him at his word, fay¬ing, 0 do as thou haft [aid.But is there any word fafd to me thatam liich a filthy monfler, fuch a pol¬luted creature in heart and way, thatam (linking, as it were, in the grave offin ? He hath faid, Ezek. xxxvi. 26-From all yoqr filthinefs, and from adyour idols will I cleanle you. Zech. ■xiii. 1. There is a fountain opened tothe hpuie of David, and to the inhabi¬tants of Jerufalem, for fin and unejean-oefs.—Is there a promife of cleanling ?Then take him at his word, and cry,ioRD, do as thou haft faid.But is there any word to me a back-flider, a grievous revolter, that manytimes after vows have made inquiry ;my promifes and refolutions have beenbut paper-walls before the fire of temp¬tation ? Are you afflicted with this, andwould have relief? Behold he fays, jer.jii. 22. “ Return, ye backflidingchildren,2nd I will heal your backflidings.” Hof.xiv. 4. I will heal your backflidings, andlove you freely. I will be as the dewto Ifrael.”—Hath he faid fo ? Then letyour heart fay, LORD, do ns thou hajlJ did.But what doth God fay to me, thathave no ftrength for my duty or diffi¬culty, that am weak like water ? Wouldyou have relief in this cafe ? God fays,2 Cor. xii. 9. “ My grace fhall be fuf-ficient for thee ; and my ftrength fhallbe made perfect in thy weaknefs. Ifai.xl. 29. He giveth power to the faint,and to him that hath no might he in-creafeth ftrength.” — Doth he fay fo ?Then put him to hjs word, faying, Lorddo as thou haft faid.But is there any word concerning me,that am br°Vight to a great difficulty,and know not what to do, or what handto turn to; I am ftraitened what courfe( H ) , '1to take: doth God fay any thing to me"Ves, he doth: Ifa. xliii. 16. “I willlhring the blind by a way they knowtnot, I will lead them in paths that they |have not known. 1 will make darknefslight before them, and crooked thingsftraight. Ifaiah xxx. 22. Thine earsihall hear a voice behind thee, faying,This k the way, walk ye in it. I willguide thee by my counfel.”—Doth helay fo ? Then put him to his word,laying, do as thou baft faid.But what fays God to a poor foul thatis harafled with the temptations of thedevil, and ready to be dellroyed withthe fiery darts of the wicked one ? God ■fays, “ I will bruife the head of the fer-pent. Rom. xvi. 10. The God of peacefhall bruife Satan under your feet fhortly.For this caufe was the Son of God ma-nifefted, to deftroy the works of thedevil.”—-Hath he begun to deflroy him ?and hath he faid, “ Thou fhalt bruife himunder thy feet ? ” Then put him to hisword, faying, LOR D, do as thou haji faid.Alas! But what fays God-to a poordeftitute creature that hath nothing, nogood, no flrength ? He fays, Phil, iv,19. “ My God fhall fuppiy all yourwants, according to his riches in glory,bv(by Chrift Jefus.needy fliall notthe expedlationperifli for ever.15 )Pfalm ix. 18. Thealways be forgotten ;of the poor ihall notThere is bread enoughand to ipare in your Father’s houfe:”-Hath he faid fo ? O then ! put him tohis word, faying, LORD, do as thou haft[aid. ♦But what fays God to me, that amlonging, earneftly longing for fomc tafteof his goodnefs, fome view of his beauty,fome communion and fellowfhip 'withhim? Why, God fays to you, that he“ will fatisly the longing foul, and fillthe hungry foul with good tilings, Matlh.v. “ Blefled are they that hungerand third: after righteoufnefs, for theyfliall be filled.”—Hath he faid lb ? Thenlet your hearts fay, LORD, do as thouhaft faid.Oh! but is there any word for onethat hath a quite other cafe to tell youof, that hath no longing defire, no hun¬ger, no third, mai hath as much needas any longing foul hath ; but I have nofpiritual longing, not fo much as a de¬fire, but like the parched earth, the dryground, that can have no ?&ive third,but hath many a wide cleft? God fays.Kai.. ( 16 )liai. xliv. 3, 4. “ I will pour water otivihim that is thirlty,' and floods upon the ;idry ground ; even my fpirit upon thyfeed, and my hi effing upon thine off-ipring. 1 Imy fhall grow up as amongthe grafs, as willows by the water-courfes.—Have you no other third, butlike that of the dry ground ? and hehath prom fed a flood ? Then, O puthim to his word, LORD, do as thou haji[aid.Oh! but is there any ’word for me,that am like the barren ground and un¬fruitful, that bears nothing but briersand thorns, and I find this ground is re-je&ed, is nigh unto curling, whofe endis to be burned ? Is this your fear andconcern ? Hear that word, Ifki.lv. 13*“ Inflead of the thorn fhall come up thefir-tree, and inflead >of the brier, themyrtle-tree ; and it fiiall be to the Lordfor a* name, and for an everlafling fignthat fhall not be cut off. Hof. xiv. 8.I am like a green fir-tree, from me isthy fruit found.—Hath he faid fo ? Thenput him to his word, faying, LORD,do at thou haji ['aid,Alas! but is there any word for me,that have been a fool, amockerfafcorner,.thatR. .' l tj )that have laughed at all religion anagodlinefs; is there any merciful wordsthat I may take hold of? Yea, Godiaith, Prov. i. 22. “Ye fcorners, that“ delight in fcorning, and fools that hate1 ‘ ‘ knowledge, turn ye at my reproof;“ behold, I will pour out my Spirit un-“ to you, I will make known my word“ unto you.”—Doth he fay fo ? Thenput him to his wordj faying, 0 do asthou baft"faid.But what faith God to me that hath/ a plagued heart, a bafe heart, full of.all manner of evils, and all the plaguesof hell ? Why, God faith, Ezek. xxxvi.26. “ A new heart will I give you, and“ a new fpirit will I put within you ;“ and I will take av/ay the Honey heart“ out of your flelh. And I will put my“ Spirit viithin you, and caufe you to“ walk in my Hatutes.” And/what¬ever be thy plague, he hath faid, / amthe Lord that heakth thee. —Hath hefaid fo ? Then, O put him to his word,faying, Lord, do as thou haft faid.Ah! But doth God fay any thing toa ftupid wretch, that only hears you,but is no more affedled than the Honesthe wall, and that is quite dead, andvan( i8 )can no more ftir than a rock, and hathno more life than a dead corpfe ? Godfays, and O that he would lay it withpo.ver, “ Come from the four winds,“ O breath, and breathe upon thefe flain,“ that they may live. Ezek. xxxvii.“ 12 I will open your graves, and caufe I“ you to come out of your graves, andye fltall know that I am the Lord,“ when I have opened your graves, and |“ fltall put my Spirit in you, and ye fhalt |“live.”—'Hath he faid fo ? Then Oput him to his word, faying, LORD,do as thou haft faid.But, Oh! is there any word that GODfaith concerning me, that have forfeitedGOD’s favour, by heaping up great andinfuperable mountains betwixt him. andme, that I fear he will never come over? jWhy, he fays, Zech. iv. 7- ‘‘ Who art“ thou, O great mountain, before our‘< Zerubabel ? Thou (halt become a plain.“ He lhall bring forth the head*{tone“ with fhouting, crying, Grace, grace“ unto it.” He can make the mountainsskip like rams, and the little hills like lambs,—Hath he faid fo ? Then, O put him tohis word, and fay, LORD, da as thouhajl faid.But(' '9 )But is there any word for one thatIs filed with fear of heavy judgmentscoming upon the land, and upon anapoftate church ? li es, lie fays, Ifai. xxxii.~ 2. “ A man fhall be a hiding place from“ the dorm, and a covert from the tern-“ pelt; as rivers of water in a dry place,(t as the fiadow of a great rock in a wea-“ ry land.,> When you fee matters run¬ning into confufion, church-members be¬traying the privileges of the church, andthe church of Scotland deftroying herfelfwith her own hand, not only bam s out ofthe forejl -wajling her, and wild beajis ofthe forcjl devout ing her, but enemiesin the bofom of the church making them-felves famous for lifting up axes and ham¬mers, to break down the carved work ofher doftrine, difeipline, and government;remember the Lord hath laid, that whenhe builds up 7Jon, he will appear in hisglory ; and that icpon all the glory therefall be a defence; that at evening time itfall be light; that the darkell part ofthe night mayulher in the morning-Barof a reformation in fpite of hell: For Iwould incline gladly to hope God willnot leave Scotland, though we have lefthim. He took infeftment by folemnX) 2 national( 20 )national covenant fix times * ; and hehath had martyrs for his kingly office,that have aflerted his royal prerogativeat the expence of their blood : thereforelet us apply that word, He 'will arife andhave mercy on 'Zion. — He hath faid fo ?Then, O take him at his word, faying,LOUD, do as thou ha[l faid.But, is there any word for a'poorcreature that is in bondage through fearof death ? “ If I have run with foot-“ men, and they have wearied me, then“ how can I contend with horfes? And,“ if in tile land of peace, wherein I“ I trufted, they wearied me, then what“ will 1 do in the fwelling of Jordan ? ”I tremble to meet with the king of ter¬rors ? Why, he hath faid, Hoi. xiii. 14.“ I will ranfom them from the powerof the grave ; I will redeem them“ from death : O death ! I will be thy“ plague ; O grave ! I will be thy de-“ ftruftion. Death lhall be fwallowcd“ up in vi&ory.” Plead then that hewould do as he hath faid.* This was done at different periods Utwixt the year 1584andBut I want aflurance of all thefethings, may one fay, Y\ ell, what meanyou by that, man, woman, that youwant affurance ? I fuppofe many donot underhand themfeives, when theyfay they want affurance ; tor, what bet¬ter affurance would you have than theword ? If you have his word, you needno better affurance. If a man of cre¬dit give you his word, you can dependupon it, and fay you are affured of it.There is an affurance of fenfe, that isthe affurance of the work, when youhave got the thing that is promifed ;this is not properly affurance, it is en¬joyment ; but the aflurance of faith isthe affurance of a word. And thoughthe affurance of fenfe be fwoeteft, yetthe affurance of faith is the furefl: aflur¬ance ; for, what you get in hand fromGod, you may foon lofe the benefit andcomfort of it ; but what you have uponhand in the promife, is hill to the fore.If you take God’s promife, you have thebelt affurance in the world ; but if youfay you want faith, you cannot takehis word, or truff: his word, then this isplain dealing : I fear this, indeed, bethe cafe of the moff:; then you wantaffurance. ( -2 ) ^afllirance.indeed, becaufe you want faith,and cannot take his word, nor give hint Ifo much credit. But, if any be faying, ;that is indeed my cafe; I cannot believe <his word : doth God fay nothing to me ?Yes, there, are promifea of faith as wellas to it: Zeph. iii. 12. “I Will leave“ i:i the midil: of them a poor and af-dieted people^ and they lliall trull in“ the name of the Lord. In him fhall“ the Gentiles trull.”—Hath the authorof faith fo promifed ? Then, O takehim at his word ; cry for faith, faying.Lord, do as thou Lajl [aid.But one may fay, I would defire notonly to have the word, but the accom-plilhment of the word : I would notonly have the promife, but the perform¬ance ; and there are fome promifes Ihave been looking to, fome ten or twen¬ty years; old promifes, that I think Igot the faitli of; but alas! the accom-plifhment is not yet come ; there arefome prayers and petitions I have hadlong tabled upon the ground of thepromife : What doth God lay to onethat hath never got thefe promifes ae-complifhed, nor thefe prayers anlvvered?Why, man, be thanktul, it you haveootgol grace to believe the promife ; forib much faith as you have to take God’sword, fo much atTurance you have thatthe word will be made out. If vou be'waiting upon a promifing God, give himhis time, and behold the womb; of thepromife will Ihortly open and bring forth;for it will not travel beyond its time:“ Bleffed is fne that believed : for there“ Ihallbe a performance of thefe things“ that were told her from the Lord.”Luke i. 45. And your fits and Harts ofunbelief, O believer, (hall not hinder theperformance of the promife you have' once believed favingly ; “ If we not,“ he abideth faithful ; he cannot deny“ himfelf,” 2 Tim. ii. 13. Will he denyhis word ? Will he deny his oath ? No,no ; he will have refpeft to his covenant,becaufe he hath a refpect to himfelf.But, what fays God of one that isafflicted and mourning for the defola-tion of Zion, and particularly for thefins and defections of the day we livein ? I will tell you what he lays, 'Theythat fow in tears Jhall reap in joy. Andthough you have your mourning timefor Zion, you Ihall alfo have your re^| joicing times ; “ Rejoice ye with Jeru-“ falem.( H )u falem, and be glad with her, all ye e“ that love her: rejoice for joy with|“ her, all ye that mourn for her,” Ifai. |Ixvi. 10. He fays, that he will fet “amark upon the foreheads of them that“ figh and cry for all the abominations :“ that are done in the midft thereof,,?.Ezek. ix. 4. “ Blefled are they that“ mourn, for theylhall be comforted,” |Matth. v. 4. — Why, then look to himto do as be hath faid.But faith anoth :r, I am one that hasa family, and children that the Lordhath given me, and it is my concern notonly that I niay be blefled myfelf, butthat my feed and offspring may be blef-fed : Is there any word for me in thiscafe ? Yea, what think ye of that word,Ifai. xliv. 3. “I will pour my Spirit upon“ thy feed, and my blefling upon thine<< offspring?” What think ye of thatcovenant "made with Abraham, whichyou are called to lay hold upon by fol¬lowing his faith! Gen. xvii. 7. ‘ I will“ be °thy God, and the God of thy“ feed.” You have not only the cove¬nant of Abraham to look to, but thefame entail of the covenant to your po-fterityVerity to loolc to, irdiali lix* 21 • 1 Tins“ ig iny covcDuiit with them, fitith toe“ Lord, My Sprit that is upon thee,“ and my words that I have put in thy“ mouth, fhall not depart out of the“ mouth of thy feed, nor out of the“ mouth' of thy feeds feed, faith the“ Lord, from henceforth and forever.”v He hath faid, that children arc his heri¬tage, Pfal. cxxvii. 3. ; and that his righ-\ ieoufnrfs is unto childrens children, cm. 17.;The promife is unto you and to your children,ACil ii. 39. O take him at his word,and cry, LORD, da as thou hajl faid.Bat what do you fay to one that findshim felt deferted of God, and that Godanfwers neither by Urim nor Thummim.“I go forward, but he is not there;[ “ backward, but I cannot perceive him:“ on die left hand, where he doth work,“ but I cannot fee him, job xxii. 8, 9.“ The comfort that could relieve my“ foul is far removed,” Lam. i. t6. Godfays, ifai. liv. 7, 8, 10. “ For a frnali“ moment have I forfaken thee, but with“ great mercies will 1 gather thee ; in“ a" little wrath \ hid my face from“ dice for a moment, but with ever-(( jailing kindnels will I have mercy onE “ thee( 26 )<c thee, faith the Lokd thy Redeemer.For the mountains (hall depart, andtc the lail.ls be removed, hut my kindnefs“ hull not depait irom dice, neither“ iliall the covenant of my peace beremoved, faith the Lord, that hath<f mercy on thee.” — Hath he/aid fo?Then, O take him at his word, faying,LORD, do as thou baji faid.But, what doth God fay to one thatis tolled with one wave of affliction uponthe back of another, “ deep calling unto“ deep, at the noife of God’s water-“ Ip outs ; all his waves and billows are“ gone over me ? ” Pfalm xci. 7. Why,God faith ifd. liv. r r, 12, 13, 14. “ Oh“ thou afflided, tolled with tempeft, and“ not comforted, behold, I will lay thy“ Bones with fair colours, and lay thy<<r foundations with fapphh es ; and I will“ make thy windows of agates, and thy<£ gatQS of carbuncles, and all thy bor-ders of pleafant Bones; and all thy“ children fliall be taught of the Lord,i( and great lhall be the peace of thychildren : in righteoufnels ihalt thou“ be eBablilhed.” Yea, he faith, Pfal.xci. 15. “ He Bull call upon me, and^ I will anfvver him: I will be with himin( 27 ) S“ in trouble, I will deliver him, and ho-“ nour him.” Many fuch fvveet wordsof grace he fpeaks: O then, take hisword and plead, LORD, do as thou bad'/aid.But is there any word to one that isloft in the wildernefi, and knows notwhere he is, fo as to think it impofliblethat minifters can find him out ? I thinkI am loft in a thicket, and it is impof-ftble to find out my cafe, a namelefs| cafe. Why, may be, that word coi>cerns you, Ifai. Ixii. n. “ Behold thy“ faivation cometh; and thou fhalt bp“ called, Sought out, not forfaken.”And Hof. ii. “I will aliure her,“ and bring her into the wildernefs, and“ there will I fpeak comfortably to her,”or, as the word is in the margin, fpeak. 'to her Heart. O comfortable, whenGod fpeaks not only to the ear, but tothe heart. Well hath he faid it ? Othen, take his word and plead. Do as.thou baft faid.But is there any word to one thathath been incorrigible under corre<fting.providences, and hath his corruptionsirritated by the croft, and rebellion ra¬ther inci Cufed by rods, inftead of being   2 reclaimed( 28 ) !reclaimed by word and rod? Is thereany caic like mine, or is there any wordfor me to lay hold upon? Yes, whatthink you of that word, Ifai. Ivii. 17,18. “ For the iniquity of his covetouf-“ nefs Was I wroth, and fmote him:44 1 hid me and was wroth, and he wenton frov/ardly in the way of his heart.”Well, what follows? “ I have feen his“ ways and will heal him : 1 will lead“ him alio, and reltoie comforts unto'e< him, and to his mrtimers.”—O afio-nifhino; wonder of free grace! tliat itwas not laid, I have feen his ways and'Will damn him, but 1 have leen his waysand will fave him. — Hath he faid fo ?Then put in your petition, LORD, daas thou haji faid.But is there any yrord to fuch as areunder the power of unbelief and kn-penitency? The gofpel is preached tobelievers and penitents: O God forbidbut it was preached to Tinners that areboth unbelieving and impenitent, in or¬der to bring them to faith and repen¬tance : Why, what faith God to fuch ?• He faith, that they ought to lay holdand plead upon Pfalm cx. 3. “ h by‘U people ftiall be Vvilling in the day of( 29 ) ^“ his power.” Aths v. 31. “ Chrilt isexalted at the right-hand of God to be“ a Prince and a Saviour, to give re-“ pentance to Ifrael, and fbrgivennel's“ of fins.” Plead then that he may doas thou haft [aid.But is it poffible that God is fpeak-ing to one that hath been a notoriousTinner ? Perhaps all the country knowsthat! have been a fcandalous debauchee,a lewd and wicked Tinner, a profanegracelefs wretch. O! if fuch werecharmed with the joyful found of thegcfpel-grace to-day, he faith, Ifai.i. 13.Come, now let us reafon together, faiththe LOUD, though your fins be as“ fcarler, they lha]l be white as fnow ;*• though they be red like crimfon,M they fhall be as wool.” Though youhave finned to the uttermofl, lam ableto fave to the uttennoft. Is your namewonderful, as a firmer ? Beheld his nameis Wonderful, as a Saviour. O hath helaid foi Well, go and plead his word,faying, LORD, do as thou haft [aid.But is there any word from God forone that hath crucified fo many convic¬tions as I have done ; yea, and virtuallycrucified the SON of GOD afrelh, re-jecting. ( 3° ^jeAing his calls, grieving hisSpirir ? Yea, wa arecal!?-i 10 preach toe gofpel to every creature, andeven to she crucifiers of Chrtft ; “ Repentance and“ rt miflion ct fin mud be preached in his name,t( beginning a; Je^ufaltm,” Luke xxiv '47. Whybeginning at Jerufalem, among the crucifiers ofChnA? Becaufe they have mod need of his bloodto wadi them ; Clirilt came to iave finners —Hathhefaidfo? I hen pCit in your bill, Lord, do as thouhajifw'iBut will you tell me, is there any word for onethat cannot think that it is as you are faying, thatthere is any merciful word in God’s mouth, or anymerciful thought in God’s heart towards me, itcannot enter into my thought; I cannot let it lightin my mind 01 heart ? Why, God fays Ifaiah Iv 8,&c “ My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither“ are your ways my way., faith the Lo d; for asM the heavens are higher than the earth, fo are my“ ways, higher than your ways and my thoughtsthan your thoughts,” You are not to meafurebis thoughts by yours, no more than youcan meafurc thefe Vide heavens with yourarms; but God knows his own thoughts, andwruC fays he of them, Jereni. xxix. it.vi2. 13,<c i kncyjv the thoughtsthat 1 thinktowards you,faith“ the Lord; thoughts of peace, and not of evil,to give you an expedleu end. Then (ball ye call“ upon me. and l will hearken unto you. And ye“ diall feek me, and fi d me, when ye fhall fearchll for me with all your heart’’*—Hath he faid foThen go anc plead his word, faying, Lord, do asthou hajl laid.In a word do you want his prefence ? He hathfaid, “ Lo I am with you always even unto the end‘s of the world, twill never leave thee nor foifakc“ thee?” Are you alraid of he.il and damnatten ?He bath faid. “ Deliver his find from going down*7 tc the pit; I have found cu:a ranfom”—O «hatencouragement( 3* )encouragement is here vo go and pray and pleadsfaying, Lord, do as thou haft /aid.O Sirs, learch the Scriptures, and ftudy theword of God, conluh and confider what he hathLid; let there be no mouldy Bibles among you:let not the duft of your Bibles witnefs againlt you,for eternal falvation depends upon your believingwhat he hath fair1; therefore fludy the faith of whathe hath faid. The Spirit fs promifed, and thefcdptures are written to e.'o.k this faith: Chrifl isexalted, and the throne of grace is ercdled to givethis faith, and this faith comes by hearing what hehath faid; by hearing not what Plato hath faid orSeneca hath faid, what this or that man hath faid,bat what God hath faid in his word, in this Bible,which is a book fo prefaced, and fo attefted, as ne¬ver any other book tras the Old Teftamenr. is prefac¬ed by all the miracles wrought by Moles, the NewTeliament, by all the miracles wrought by Chrift.And as Modes miracles were wrought before theOld leftament was written, fo Chrift’s miracleswere wrought before the New Teftament was writ¬ten : npver a book was fo attefled as this, even by acloud of wbnefTes, a cloud of miracles, a cloud ofmartyrs, who fealcd with their blood the truthcontained in it. God, in the New Teflar«ent,cxaiflly fuifiis what he hath faid in the old; jea,the prefert flare of ail the world is a vilible perform¬ing ot fcripiure prophecies.—Are not the Jews atthis day a fcattertd and dcfpifed people, as thefcnpture faid they fhould be? Hath net God doneas he hrah faid ? Is not antichrift the loi.g livedtnan cf ftn. and the cruel man of blood,: tnefcriptur.e told he fheuid be? Ihusit is done as hehath faid —Are not the Pagan pairs of the earththe darh places and habit at ions of cruelty ^ as thefcrjpture fays they (liould be ? 'Ihui it is as he harhfaid. Do not the (even churches of ACa Iv dtfolate,33( 32 ) 'jji they vrere threatened, unlefs they repented.Thus ir is as he hath faid.—Is no, mahomet, tfiefalie prophet, and his followers, hke the waters ofthe great river Euphrates, to winch they a. e com¬pared in fenprure? And thus «t ts as he hath/md,Does no‘, the xvhote ibsi id ly in -Mickedmfs, ^ as theword oi God thews ? And fo it is as he hath hud-Is nor every faint as a brand plcuked out of tbsburning, a^the ftriptute ipeaks ? And :t is as heharh laid.—Are not dulls and IcofferS waA.ng al¬ter ilr-ir own lulls, and ridiculing the promrfe ofChritfs coming, as the feripture-fpeak^ to.it is as he hath fdh- Are not all the b! tek mu ksof perilous times in the lajl days upon us, as rhe.feripture fpeaks? And fo it is as he hathfaid.—Are not the foonlh virgins as man,,yea, and more than the wife, and ad flumbenngand jltepingy and ail according as he ham faid ?Dotn not the Spirit fpeak exprefly, tbar va t.elatter times fame Jhall depart from the faith d Ac-,cordingly it is as he hath faid—Ts not the gofpei afavour life to fome, and a favour o. dea .h toothers? Is not Chrift precious AO feme, andRone of ftumblinS and a rock cfoffenceto others asfhc feature fpeak,? and fo it is as he hath laicLook about you, and fee if any thing that fads outnot an accomplifoment of the word : add, ^how fhould you vafoe this word! not a jot- or tittlet,c jf flull fail to the ground. - ■ ,Walk to this garden of the fenpture, and piucuunthe flowers of gofpel-promifcs and put them inLr bofo n- live by faith upon the promifos, anuL> n-iloaded, whs,ever hands in the way, that he_ he wl.t, fai;f. lie will do fo, lor what he,* L what he hath faid he hathSd th'at al h ll fali he hath C™,. what ei ,\;d he will never unfay i thereloce, ,aa. h^dIf lord of grace. ^ hold him at Ins word m.£; ano at death, fayln^fl.ryta MM-'