7 THE:DOOR of SALVATIONOPENED|| Or, a loud and'flirill Vocice from Heaven, tounragenerate Sinners on Earth.| Plainly {hewing the neceffity of opening your jHearts, that the King af Glory may enter in:or elie he will open Hell’s mouth to devourj| you. •i 2 Thef. i. 8. For he is coming (Caith-tfee-A-i. -fHtftkj-in flaming fire ; to takesvengeanse onj them that kdow not God, and that obey notI the Goff el ofjefus Chrifl.*By Mr SAMUEL RUTHERFORD.E D IPrinted and fold ijN. B. If the Reader think thb little book tooI’ deaf of one half-penny, read )X gratis,keep it clean,and return it when called for.fThe everlafting door of Merey and Salvationopened, See.Rev. iii. lo.jBebold //land at the door andknock: if any man hear my voice and open thedoor, I will came in to him, and Jup withhim, and he with me.IT bath pleafed the moft wife difpofer of allthingsj out of the riches of his grace, to ren¬der Jetus Chrifl to poor loft and undone finntrs,and alfo pleafed the-Lord Jelus, not only to diefor finnen, to redeem them from death, and thecurfe of the law, that he might open a way fpcloft tinners, to return to Goa, but is pleafed toftand knocking at the door of their h*arts to en¬treat their fouls to be reconciled to God. Andtherefore, as you love your fouls, as you loveyour bodies, as you would not bring damnationon yourlelves; hear and fear, and do no morewickedly, but open your hard and ftony hearts,that the King of glory may enter in. O finner fnow Chl'iit is rtauding and calling to thy foul, ifthou wilt hear and open, f will come in untothee. Now Chrift inlaying, I know thy works,1 know well enough that thou haft been a blal-pbemer, or a drunkard, or a whojp-monger, orthief, or a fabbath breaker, or a fcorner : yet liiand at the door this day, and knock , I will re¬ceive thee into mercy, I will forgive all thy ,fins • I will accept, 1 will hear, I will lave thyfoul, if thou wilt open thy heart this day untome, and let me in O bretliern • for Chrift's ,fake, refule not Chrrft, do notrefule Chrift, donot rejuft noi htgled lo great a iafvation, k-aft ,you periih,x. Coniider the ceceffity you have , of him ;( 3 )Give me children, or elfe I die, laid Rachelor give me Chrift or the ffifrith for ever. Canyou be laved without GhrifPFAnd if you may Thave Chrift but for the opening the door ; (lien *Awhile it is called to day, then hear and opento him. If the door of grace fho.uld be mutthou woulddt lltut up with vengeance for ever.2. Coniider what anlwer thou wilt be able tonuke at the great day, if thou wilt harden thyheart, and not open, why, what wilt thou, a hatcan’nthou plead for thylelt at the day of judg¬ment? Wilt thou lay, tha gofpel never offer¬ed thee Chrift ? Why, thou haft heard this dayif any man will hear and op»n, I will come inand fup with him. Will thole fay,! would haveopened my h«art had it not been for love oT ffn,jor for cale, or liberty, or honour, friends orbmpanions? Oh ! how will then and angels hiisit thee? This is ibe perfon, who for hilt’s fake'orlook,his uutdes ; who f*r a little vanitylegle&td his own lalvation : O ! how wilt thou:urf* thy lelf, that for nothing yea tor thatjwhich is. worfe than nothing, thou haft put oft"Chrift and his falvation ! T herefore, men breth-•en, and fathers, hearken unto me, as Moles'aid to the Ifraoiites ; fo this day I propone un¬to you blefling and curling life and death ; falvu-ion if you open to Chrift'; and damnation ifmu refute CbriftFor the Lord's fake chule not curling, butilefling; chufe not death, but life, chufe nottell, but heaven; chule rot tin. but Chriftlough you have formerly flighted him ; if you’ill now regard him though yau have formerly•ontemned him, yet if you praife him, thoughon have formerly refitted, if yet you willcild, it yet you will content, if yet you will be-ome willing, to open unto Chrift, Chrift will bejours,mercy will be yours,lalvation wilfbe vours( 4 )And what would you have more? What, willnot all this do ? Will not mercy allure you;Will not love cot^fcpin you ? Then give meleave to reprove you" and fright you, (if it bepoffible) out of thefe depths of Satan, into whichyou are fallen ; however, I am relofved, whe¬ther you will or not, and the Lord fallen it u-pon your fouls.i In the bowels of love and mercy, let mebeg thee to afle tby (oul this quftion h.>w long•will this life, and tht comfort of it laft ? Thefoul is immortal, and moll never die, but mullhave a being fom* where to all eternity.Queft. 2 What will become of thee, whenthis life and all the conifous thereof are gone ?Oh, hard hearted finnet s! this broad way whichthou walked in, will never lead thee to the pro-ntifed land ; thy gold and diver key will neveropen heaven’s gate for thee; thy care of thisworld's good,w]il never plead for thee before theJudge; all thy friends and acquaintances, withwhom thou had fpent many joyful hours, theirgood works will dand thee no (lead.Then thou wilt be ready to cry, Oh, where isthe Chrift that 1 have ddpiled ? O, where is theJdus that 1 have refilled f Will he plead forme ? No furely : but go to the gods whom thoubad chofcn O, what will become of me ? mudI not die? O whether will deatn carry me ? into■which of the regions of the world will death landme, either ot light brdarknds? To which ofthe two regions am I now travelling? Certain¬ly the way of pleaiure, or worldly profit, thebroad way of the world, is not the way to rranf-pvit me to heaven and evtrlafting happintfs.Say, O finner, to thy loul, What, mud l he ta¬ken from ail glory and greatnels, from all thedilligence, and thrown, like Lufifer Ion of themorning, from all thy bright nefs, into blacknefsand darknels for ever? When death hath doledup my eyes muft I awake in everlafting flames ?finner, thou, thou lha|t withesut remedy, unlelsthou open to the Lord Jelus Chrift.Qucft 3 Aik thy loul, ctn which hand thou! art like to Hand on the day of judgmuit, onI the light hand or on the kit, among the goats,f if thou wilt not hear and open thy heart now,bej allured the devil will open hill's mouth for thee.What will lx; the tnd of thele joys, whi^b now} make lo glad thy heart ? You are now in thfe| broad way 10 diltruftion, and utter fepeiation| from God s prtfence for ever : thy plealuresM here we may iudoe of ; but Oh ! who tan telljr the thoufand part of theie fiery tormems, toi which thou art liable in the other world ?|| whillf thou did!, thou (halt be a damned crca-h ture? Whilft thou lived thou art fed l:ke a:| bead by common providence, and are a md'ei itratiger to feeding promiles. If thou lookedli upwards. God is fiowning, and jiis. wrath is re-i vailed from hravt-n againlt thee, Rom i ; 8.'the heavens and their hoft ape ready every mo¬il ment to difeharge Goa’s curies like thunder boltsi againft thee If thou looked downward, thou|| mayeft fee hell gaping and opening its moinh toi: 1 wallow thee up quick; many dangers aft-nd■ thee every day; many mif ries every mome nt ;-1 Lgions Of the devils ftand about thee, watching1 thee, and waiting for the leave of Gad to drag| thv toul into the lake of fire. -* Ah, v h n thou diefi, man what muft thou• | then do ? Wi en captain death ftt ikes, wltole ar-1 rh’c5 of wolves will fall upon thee ? Look to it,i and remember, thou wert once Warned lefti thou die etemdly. St Auftin’s prayer was O” rack me, hew me, hum me here, but Ip .reme hrrfafter. As long as thou refufcft to hearChrift’s voice, thou has a hell upon earth; it isnot the multitude of companions that go thitherMall any whit kflen thy torments, but rather in*crtafc them; thy life, that have been full ofworkily joys, fliall end in daily woe.All you, into whole hands this little bookMall come, O let me beg you to confider, inthofe bowels of love you have to your own foulshow your hearts ran endure to think of beingthat out of heaven, out of bldfednels for ever :afk your hearts thefe queftions. Can I burn ?Can I endure the vegeance of eternal fire ?Will boiling oil, burning brimftone, lealdinglead, a glowing oven, a fcorching furnace, bean eafy lodging for me? O, why, my foul, wiltthou not be perfuaded to repent ? Is their toomuch pain in that ? Thou art ready to fay, I jcannot bear a crofs nor any aMi&ion, a leoft, ora reproach : talk thee, of crucifying the flefh,of pawing with thy workily companions, of en¬tering in at the ftraighr gate : O thefe are hardlayings, who can bear them ?But how wilt thou do, to dwell in with de¬vouring fire ? How wilt thou do to dwell witheverlafting burnings? VVhatfocver thou think-eft yp«w. think what hell will be when the day 1comes thou muft defernd into it; thou mayeft idrink or laugh away .the fear of it ; but what ,yvill it be to thee, when thou fee left thyfelf wrap- 1ped in the flames of it, and not a drop of water Jto cool thy tongue ! think on lull, O, fouland then think on Chrift, and cosfider, if a Re- fjdeemer from filch mife'ry be not worth the ac- jcepting of. Think on hell, and think on fin» l|(and carnal pleatures and delights, conftder how Ithey will relifh with thee, whe thus falted with tjeverlafting fire : Are thefe the price for which f!|thou felleft thy foul to hell? Oh/ bid thele luftsand pleafures be gone, bid your companions,and fins be gone; and tho* you loved them well,and have fpent your time finfully with them, yettell them you mull not burn for them, that youwill not damn your loul to pleale your flefh.Having thus briefly as may b«, laid down thelife of terror ; which, I hope, will awaken lomepoor fouls out of the depth of carnal lecurity ;now, I fliall proceed to the laft ufe of encou¬ragement ; to encourage poor fecure finners toventure, to lay fall hold on him before that itbe too late.Oh, poor foul 1 haft thou kept Chrift out ofa long time, and art thou not yet rdolved to o-pen thy heart to him? What fhall I fay to thee?"Let me lay this ? Chrift waits ftill'for thee : thenwhy, wilt thou undo thylelf, by ncgleftiag togi eat lalvation ? Let the confuleration of themfflage Chrift brings you, of the errand liei comes ©n cxcit you, (it is no dilmal one he bringsit is no dreadful errand), If Chrift had cometo deftroy thy foul, could he have had Ids wel-! come than you gave him/’ Oh, for your fouls| lake, receive him! Oh, ye fools! when will yehe wile ? Come unto Chrift, and hg will have1 mercy on you, and htal all your backflidings,i and love y6u fredjBut fome poor loul will be ready to fay, Ihave a defire to come to Chiift, but I am afraidChrift will never receive luch a wretched (inneras I, who have flood it out lojong againft him.For anfwer to this, give me leave to give youforme direftionsi. Ah, poor, foul, art thou willing*to come toChiift ? "Then will Chrift in po wife call theeI out, if thou coniift to him poor, mile rable Windand naked; O finner, come not to him in thisftrength, but come thou and law, O Lord, hereis a poor loul not worth a farthing ! O Lord,make me rich in faith O Lord, here is a mile-rable loul, Lord have mercy on me ; here is apoor blind. Lord enlighten me from aboVe ; herdis a poor naked wretch, O Lord lave me Iclt Iperifti for t cannot help, myfeif.Diredl 2. Come to Chrift by believing inhim Ay, when thy poor lon! is linking head-long into htli, and lee no way to eteape the fear¬ful wrath of God hanging over thy head catchthou then, at luch a time fall hold on Chrift.Oh then apprehend and apply all his benefits tothy foul : cjrae this way and gralp him ih thearms of thy faith : and lay I beheve in thee*,helpthou my unbelief. -\nd the anfwer, which theLord will give thee wijl be thus: Be it accordingas thou wilt. Let Chrift be in your band, andYhe promile in your eye ; and no doubt, thouba t been, a rebel a traitor,yet Jeius Chrift hav¬ing received tfic gifts for tbt rebellious, willlhewmercy on thee, and receive thee.Dired. 3 Come to Jtlus Cbrift, by repent¬ing ai*d forlaking all thy fins. Thou canft ne¬ver come tothe wedding-lupper, without weddinggarments : the old man muit be tJken away be¬fore all things can be made new, id. 24. 6 Je-rufalem, warn ihy heart from wickeduels, thatthou mayeft be laved. Winch, God of his in.finite met cy, grant we may all do, and bebiel-fed for ever, ti'.rohgh Jefus Chrift our Lordand .Saviour.FINIS.