h i s r o r riJACK OF NEWBURY,CALLED, THECLOTHIEROF ENGLAND.STIRLING;Printed and Sold by C* Randall;—-3I V'. 1.. -v «;• • .. i;T H £ ;HISTORYO FUlniyjCK OF NEWBURY.ITN the reign of King Henry VIU. one^ John Winchcomb was a rich clothiert in the town of Newbury in Berkihire ;if a handiorne and clever youth ; when hisI matter died, and left his miftrefs a wi¬ll dow, who feeing John to be a carefulI, fervant, put him in great trufl: in herr houfe, which he carefully performed.His mittrefs fcoa had many fuitorg,t but could not fancy any ; tor her man?! John had ftolen her heart.The parfon of Speenham-land was oneI of her amorous fuitors, and often folici-tied her to be his wife, but could not ob-; tain her love, becaufc he was a clergyman ]too much devoted to his ftudy.4A rich tanner was her fecond wooer,but he could not fpetd though he was*,rich, for he was too old for her youngand hilly defires,A taylor was the third, who was ai¬med confident of her love, but was mif-taken ; for John was the man who hadfo wounded her heart, that !he could loveno other man.She feeing the backwardnefs of herman John, after many occ. lions offeredhim to woo he- , came at lafi. and toldhim plainly that die loved him dearly,which ficret (lie defined hirti not to im¬part unto any one, but he mode hi ybluilung with a roly color ia bis-cheeks,not knowing how to exprefs bimfelf ac¬cording to his own withes, being much,fur prized thereat, aidweud, Sweet mil-trcls, it is a charge whereof, mechinks, Ifear to undertakeAt which anfwer fhe was much dif-|couraged in her liv e for the prefeut, and. jkilfing him mod lovingly, iht brokethe mfcourfe for that time. And nightapproaching, fhe went to bed, but hadvery i'mali reii, either flun bering at thftibefl, for dreaming'of her hand feme maajbhn ; fetching m my deep fi;hs ii theark and lonefoms nights; Clinking itcry long bef ire morning came, rejotcmgti fee the light appear, that fhe might[iibraee her dear fervant, or racher herlafter John.She going to fee Barthobmew'■omen are ufed more to fee and be feen,ookher man John with her, who whilele was talking with a friend, die fiw himiluting a handfome girl, which made herwn mouth water; but biting her lips, ihetft diiCourfing with her neighbour, and;/ent to John, to prevent his having anylore familiarity with the maid.Afterwards {he met the taylor, her oldweethearc, as near as could be, in thefair, who defiring her to accept of a. glafs6of wine ■witli him, was denied again andagain ; but by importunity {he was per-fuaded. And he efpying the tanner,called him in to help bear the charges’and not imagining he was a fuitor to thefame widow. And both of them efpying lthe parfon, called him in. expediting to |make him their folicitor vSo they were all pmerrily drawn ir to Cupid’s paradife. But jlwhen each had difcovered his intentionsto the others, they were all exceedingly fperplexed, not knowing how this divifion |imight end.Atlaft it was df fired of her to declare |which of them {he liked bed, and {he Ianfwered. That fhe loved them alike andthanked them for their charget.Them quoth the Par {on, can you {indin ycur heart to marry me ?j. 7No, quotli flic, it is your office to mat"ry, not mine.Tken quoth the Tanner, ■will you makeme your hofband? Trnly neighbour, faidthe, methinks you might betctr be myfather ; you are one of too great year*to marry fuch a young and bnik widowlas I am.Then quoth the Taylor, widow, it isiiithat mull enjoy you ; (hall you and I:be married ? Yes, I hope fo, quoth the.widow, when. we and our fweethsarwtare agreed.After this {he defired to take her leave(of them, thanking them for the colls theyhad been at for her, and then rofe up toi;go away ; but they deli red a full anfwerifrom her, that they might be better fatis-iified in their re quells. Accordingly fhc(promiled to give them full fatistadhoa:the next Thurfday. At which time theyjail attended and then {he "old them plain*ly, that ihe would marry none of them,for that file had one nearer home, whomIhe loved to that degree, that {he couldnot think of marrying any other man. Sothey all went away diicontented.8Night approaching fhe talked privately’“with her rran John, wooing him to wedher, which he ftill, through bafhfulnefs,refufed ; and when night drew on, fhecaufed an extiaordinary bed to be madeup for her man John to be in, which bedwas only for ftrangers to lie in, or for herhufband when he w^is not well ; and fheherfelf lay in the next chamber.When fhe had lain in bed an hour ortwo, flie thought file had lain alone longenough. So fhe arofe and went to herman John, fhivering and fluking, andlif ting tip the bedcloatht, he ftarted. Whois there ? quoth he. It is I, my fweetJohn, faid fhe, it is an exceeding coldnight, and I lyingalone, amalmcfl ftarvedin my bed ; good John afford me the fa¬vor of one night’s lodging by thy fide,my John I pr?y thee. Alas! my poormiflrefs, quoth he, come lie clofe. Yea,yea, quoth file. O fweet, loving, anddear John—Here it vuii be proper toleave them till morning.She got up early in the mo mi rig, andcalling for her naan John to go out withher, flie took him to the Church of StBartholomew and called fer the prieil of9. .| the partfh, and with him perfuaded Johnthat they might then he married together ivv'uch with fon.c imall irureaty. h'e con-iented to . ana f> they went h ncs and| going to dinner, :he made him tit in her1"I'1old huibanc’s chair, a. which the Hervantsbi gan to fm ’e at each othe* as guedmgat the 'roalon. But b (ere dm ter was >verihe took him rouac the neck and killedhim, faj mg, That be vnas her hulb.utd,and ordered them to ihew him the ref-pedt due to a mailer.clHe alfo fpoke lovingly to them, andtold them that be would not forget thathe* had once been their fe!)#w fervant;but wouM deferve their refpedls to the■fttmofl of his endeavours. The remainderof the day wa's fpent in love toys, except10iomc little time in overlooking the jour¬neymen.The next morning the new marriedbride was'vifited by divers gofBps of her?.cqu2intance, who each of them fpenttheir verdidt what the event of this herbaity marriage would be ; which exceed¬ingly difcouraged her; however, at laftfhe iaicl, 1 will take care and order that Iwill fo curb him at ftrfi, that I will makeiure he Ihall never crow over me in theieaif, I warrant you.Ai d indeed (lie began to grow as greata gcffip as any in Newbury, and wouldlometimts come hems very late at night,infomuch that once her hufband Johnwent up to bed and locked her out, andtook the key up into his chamber. Andwhen the good wile found fire was lockedout, file knocked very hard, tiil at laith< r hefband looked put of the window,,ai d told her to look out her lodging thatn ghtat the place fire had been fitting all !cay. Such goifips as you, fays he, the cage iis he fitted lodging for. Go directly tothe conftableand beipeakyou a bed of himO dear hufband, quoth lire, be not fo-angry ; I pray you give me leave to comett:t> my bed, good fveeet hufband, confidei tc is night and I pray you let me not ftan>thus long in the cold, left 1 lofe my lifthereby.After many fine word* wherein fhe in: treated her hufba id to come down and< open the door he came down to her, &. let her in; to whom file very difiem-blihgly pretended to have loft her finewedding ring oft her finger He lovinglygoing forth with the candle in his handin his fiiirt, looked up md down upaslithe ground for it; and ihe in the mearsjtime ftepped in and dapped too the door.: and ihut him out j whereat he was muchSfperplexed, and ne (too 1 knocking a longdtime in the cold Defore fhe would anfweinvho at the opening of the windo w, ftidimim go look for a lodging wich the con-fftabie’s wife, and afked him, whether heriltbought it good to lie in the cold ftreet ?IllNow, quotn fhe, fhe who was even now! at your mercy, hath gotten you nt er’sl O^fweet wife, laid he, be not angry, butdiet me come in, I fwear unto you, that Lmever will ihut you out ot doors again ;but you fhall do what you will} and i12normake witliyou Itrill never meddlehereafter.Upon which Hie carne down and open¬ed the door, and let him in. and then theymade great proteftsdons to ei’cn other,never to rfFrc-nt or to fall out vwth each,other any more for the future ; and folliwith a good lack pc fli t the covenant was |agreed on between them.Shortly alter the King had oecafion toraife an army againft the Scots, who wererifen againft the Englifli, Jack of New¬bury railed at his own expence^ one hun¬dred and fifty men, cloathed them inwhite coats, red caps, and yellow feathersand led them himfelf.Fifty of them were valiant horlemen,fifty pikemen, and fifty mufqueteers ; allbrave Heeds, good arms and valiant menwho marching before the Qceen, fhecalled for him, and underfianding whathe was, fhe put ,-forth her hand tor himto kifs, and promifed to acquaint theKing of his free and great fervices.A SONG.*3A SONG,USED BYJIJack of Newbury, and hisSoldiers.*17' ING Jemmy of Scots hns rais’dAn army againlt iingland.But let him come we’ll thunder himback,He cannct us withftand.Jack of Newbury comes, proud Scotstake heed,With valiant foldiers Rout,Who for brave England will fight withyou» .And never will give out.Our milk white coats, red caps,And yellow feathers declare,Our refoiutions flout and good,T he Scots we will not fpare.Shortly after, John of Nev/hury heardthat the King was to ride to Newbury;14fo he and his fervants went out into the ■open fields, and fi nding a field of pifmires .he drew his fword and guarded it.Tne King coming by fent lor him to ;know the leafon why he guarded that ,place with his fword drawn, the King in 1perlbn being to pafs by there ? Heimine- lidiately returned for aufwer, fhat he wasbufy, and could not fpeak with him, andas the King is on horfeback, and I am onfoot, he may the better come to me: tellthe King that I. Hand heie to guard thefelaborious ants from their enemies.Which mefTige being carried to theKing, he went to Jack of Newbury, ex¬pecting that it was done ta make fomejeit for his pleafure; and when the Kingcame, Jack with all his mea fell upontheir knees, and cried, God lave the ,King ! for your facred Majefty, quothJack of Newbury, hath vauquiihed all;your enemies. Now trull me quoththe King, you are llout foldiers to tight 1againtl butcei flies, and fo manfully towithiland fuch mighty giantsMy dread Sovereign, quoth Jack ofNewuury, not long ago, in my conceit jl faw the moll provident nation of ants |tfummon their chief peers to parliamentijtvhich was held m the famnas city of;Drudiftie, the aiil of December laft,fjwhereat by their wddo b I was chofeni King- A: which time alf j many bills of»;complaint: were brouht againft a greatmany members in tfee Common Wealthil y»rhoin the mule w ;s arraignedfor high treafon againft the ftate, andtliertfore he was banithed for ever fromthe antient kingdom. So were alfo thegrahhepper and the caterpillar, becaufeIDthey v.'e're not only idle tlicmfelves, bvialfo lived upon the labour df others,Amon^fl tfeC reft, tlie butterfly \vaj|mucl. difiikeci, butfewdui It fay any thinJto him, becaufe of his golden apparel |who, though hitnfck upon fufftranoe|grew fo very ambitious and ma’eport]that the poor ant could no fooner get aiegg into her neft, hut he would have itaway, efpecially agamft Hafler ; whickat length much offended them ail. Thispainted afs took Inuff in the note, & ahiembled a great many of his own coatand went to war to root thoie painf u;people our of the land, that he. mighthimfelf be above them.Thefe were proud butterflies indeedfaid our noble King*.Whereupon 1, with my men, quothJack, prepared ourfelves to withflandthem, wntil fuch time as your Majefty’sroyalprelence put them to Hight.ThtiThe Song that jack fang with his Menbefore the King.f H AVE now taken npon me a charge^ Ta govern thefe poor ants.That they may walk at large.And gather in their wants.jThat they may v/alk more fafe,ffo bring home their relief.And keep that which they have,>7rom every idle thief,put now my king is here,c bow down on my knee,ior we that vaunted here,•Are fuhje&s unto thee.Cod blels thee royal king,ftnd fend thee long to reign,iindjoy in every thing,And freedom from all pain.;/and my men, and mine,jdy ants and all we have,, Command us, we are thine,jond fo the King God five.f iSNow to return again to Jack and hiswife. Ir happened that fhc fell fick anddied j and foon after her burial J j»ck fellin love with one of his maids, and featfor her father to know wnat he wouldgive with his daughter. He came toNewbury, and feeing the great wealth ofhis daughter and fweethearr, he was ex¬ceedingly aftonifhed, fo Jack hadIn one room two hundred looms allg°^g-Two hundred boys winding quills.An bundled women carding.In another room two hundred maidsIjpinjiing,One hundred and fifty boys picking ofwool.Fifty ihearmen.Fight toers.Forty dyers in the dye-houfe.Twenty men in a fulling mill.In his own houfe he kept a butcher, abaker, a brewer, five cooks, and fix fcul-lions,Hefpcnt every week five fat oxen inhis horde, btfidcs butter,cheefe, hlh, See.Zir, quoth the old man, I wize you beabominable rich, and cham content yoa*9fhould have my daughter, and God’s blef*fing and mine light on you bath. I waithcham of good exclamafhon amongft allmy neighbours, and they will as z^on afkmy vize for any thing Zo thick I willagree. You (hall have her with a veryj good will, bccaufe we hear a very good; commendation of you in every place,J therefore befides think I will give twenty;j marks and a weaning calf that is ajj year old, and when I and my wife die,;l then you fhall have the revolution of oura goods.But Jack made more reckoning of hisr wife’s modeliy and virtue, than the fa-I ther’s pn ffers; to be married her, and1 made a fumptuous wedding; and in (leadof accepting the^cld man’s twenty mar ks.20Ae gave liim twenty pounds in money*befides other gifts.O my good zun, faid the old man, God’sbkffing be wi’ you mun ; for to tellyou the truth, we have zold all ourkine for to make up the money for ourdear daughters marriage, and thefe zevenyears we fhould not have been able tobuy any more. Notwithftanding weflionld have zold all that ever we had be¬fore my poor wench fnould have loft hermarriage: nay, i ihould have zold mycoat from my hack and my bed from un¬der me, before my daughter Ihould havegone without you.pH thank you, good father and mother,faid the bride, rad God keep you in goodhealth. Then the bride kneeled down21ed did her duty-, and her father andnother wept f ir joy, and fo departed,j >Ngvv there was one Randal Pert, airaper, dwelling in Watling-ltreec, whoiiwed to Jack of Newbury five hundredHounds : and it happened that Jack cameI j London, and as he was going to hisuftomers, he met in the Hreet this poorkandal Pert in a frock, carrying a portersi>afket, with fcarce a coat, wailtcoat,breeches or hat on; a rope round hispiddle, and wasjult then come out ofInfon.His wife, who before for daintinefsWald not tcul her fingers, nor turn herlead afide for fear of rumpling her neck-jnger ; yet fhe was now glad to wafhloaths at the Thames fide, and to be a;h airwomanHer ioR har a was hardned with fcow-ring, and , in Head of gold rir s on herikhity ticgers, her hands and augers weredtow fi’^ed with chaps.But when her huiband efpied Jack oftiewbury, his creditor he ran Vvny aslit as he could, for fear of be;ng againrrelted. But Jack fent hi man after himnd he feeing one purfue him, ran thefafter and in running he left one pf hisold flippers here and another there eveilooking .behind him with great fear. Atlaft, his breecv es being tied with on»point, what with the hafte he made, ancthe oldnefs thereof they broke, and felabout his heels, and fo fettered him, tha|he fell down in the ftreet, with his back 1fide bare, and an old ragged {birt, anclay fweating and blowing, quite fpeiand out, The fellow came to him, ancbrought him to his mafter, who took himto a ferivener, to give him a bond for thpayment, of the money ; and the time fopayment was fixed to b§ when the faiPert was fheriff of London, and was with|flood by.Thai Jack of Nrwbury fent lor a nevfuit of apparel for him out of BircbinplLane, and a new fhirr and band hat, hofiIhoes, and all things neceflary for a meichant, Then he took for him a (hop iCanwick-fireet, and furnifhed it withthoufand pounds worth of goc d cloth, b•which means, and other favours he diikim, he grew in good credit again, anwas very provident; and his wife gre.rone of the bed hoyifewives in the pariOi,land he (bon got good cuftom.He increafed much in ftore, and in adhort rime become of much repute in theparifh,iind fo well refpedled, that he wasrlchoien fherift of London, died before heicome to be Lord Mayor, and left his wifevery rich.Jack of Newbury, other wife called■Mr ]ohn Winchcomb, being grown old;Ifell fick, and in a fe v days died, and hisaliwife burit-o hi an with great pomp.He left his wife a great eftate, and ma¬ny legacies to friends and poor relations.And the greatelt part of all the countrypeople thereabouts came to fee the oldman laid in the grave where wc will leavehim, w ith this epitaph:24His EPITAPH./"YF Newbury here lies valiant Jack,Shrouded in white, come to his end, ,By death, that now has broke hi^ back 1Who to his country was a friend.An aid to thefe who labour lov’d,An aid to the poor, blind, and lame,Men, women, children, ail have prov’dThe fuccour iweet that from him came- . *vVinchcomb adieu, God hath thy foul,fhy body lies entomb’d in earth,fhy works brave hiftories do enrol,1 hy life the fame, e’en from thy birth.