THEHISTORYQTS I N D B A DTHE SAILOR,COSTAINISGA A ACCOUNT OF HIS SURPRISINGVOYAGES.FALKIRK:Printed end Slid by ?. Ja'er.t’.sn,18^,{ V OF SCOTIAN D ^THE HISTORY OFSINDBAD, THE SAILOR.fjc the reign of the Caliph Haroun Airaschid, thcrolived in Bagdad a poor porttr, named Hindbad.One day, during the er.cesme heats of summer.Le wat ci.rrj inga heavj ioad. from one extrt mityof the city to the other, and being much fatiguedby the length of tlte way he had come, and hav¬ing much ground stdl to traverse, he arrived in sstreet where the pavement was sprinkled with rosewater; and a gentle breeze refreshed the air. De¬lighted with this situation he placed his load onthe ground, and took his station near a large man-won. The delicious scent of aloes and IVankin-'cense, which issued from the windows, and thewnc-l! of different so-Js ol viands, led him to sup¬pose, tint some grsnd feast was given there. Hewished to know whose residence rt was; for nothaving frequent occasion to pass that-way, lie tvasunacquainted with the names of the inhabitants.To satisfy his curiosity, therefore, he approachedsonic servants, who were stam irg magnificentlydressed, at. the door, anu inquired who was thematter sf that mansion. “ What (rvp ied the ser¬vant, are you an inhabitant in Bagdad, and do notknow that this is the residence of Smdbad, thesailor, that fuBous voyager, who has sailed overallthe seas under the sun.” The porter, who hadheard of the immense riches of Shalbad. could nothelp comparing his situation, which appeared coenviable, with his own w hich was so drplorable;:*nd distressed by the reflectios.. he raised his eyes,and exclaimed with a loua voice, “ Almighty Cre-ttlor of ail things, what has he done to obtain so3mppy a descby, or I to merit one rigorc*j«P'’In saying this, he struck the ground with his foot,i« if entirely given up to despair. He was stiltmusing on his late, when a set rant came towardshim from the house, ami teking hold of his arm,>«id, “ Come, follow me; my wiRstir, Siadbftd,ishes K» speak with you.It may easily be supposed that Hindbad was notlittle surprised at the compliment that was paidhim and had tea.-on to Fcav. that Sindbsd sent forhim to reprimand him for the.werd* he had utt^r-e 1; and therefore began to excuse hirnseH from g.i-• < _    f:tag- saying that he could rot leave k»s load in themiddle of the street; but the servant assuring urn.it should be taken care of. pressed him so rnueii,that, the porter could r.a longer refuse to go.He ltd hum mto a spacious room, where a num-her of persons were seated m a stttnvituous banquetconsisting of th«< most choice viands end delicacies'In the prircipal seat was a grave nr.d venerablejierson, with a long white b^rd Tin, |>ersor wasjfvindbad. fhe porter inade.lds ol*ei*gn.--e with fe*Pj»nd trembling • which Sindbed perceiving, desiredi him to approach, cod Seatit;g him at his right hanOihelped hinr, hiniselt to the choicest dUfees.’aEd g^vahim some excellent nine to drink.,t At'ter the repast, Si»db id addresr^ed l.imself tothe porter by the name of brother, and :rq iTr dl.is rarne. **. Sir (replied he) my name itbaa.’ “ l am glad lit esc you : bin l wish to knowfrom your own lip*, what it wa/ you gala just i on-n the streetfor Sindbod, b. fer. he went to div~ner ovtrhesrd what he/rid, fwen the window. r*rd•hat wa* h;e reasoo for sejidipg for him. /,» t »,request, hindbad, fu« v'-ccmpsi.m, hong dowr hmUad, and implied, “ Sir, t m«Rt confess to vou.teat my fatigue r:».i put me so out of humour,'tf*!1 UUer«^ «•••» vm*,, which i cptfeiit4j(ni to pardon me.” *“ Ob. (resumed Sindbad) d®not im.urine tiiat l am so unjust as to have any re¬sentment on that account. I feel for your situa¬tion, and instead of reproaching, I pity you; but I.roust undeceive you from one error respecting my¬self. You suppose, no doubt, that the riches and{'ofnforts 1 enjoy, have been obtained without anylabour or trouble. To arrive at this state, I haveendured the greatest bodily, as well as mental suf-ibfings you can possibly conceive. Yes gentle¬men, continued he, (addressing himselftothe wholecompany) [ assure you. my sufferings have been ofa nature so extraordinary, as would deprive thegreatest miser of his love of riches. That you mayjudge ol this. 1 will, with your leave, relate thedangers I have encountered.The First Voyage of Sindbad the Sailor.My father left me a considerable estate, most partof winch I spent during my youth; but l perceiv¬ed my error, and called to mind, that riches wereperishable, and quietly consumed by such bad bus-ban ts as myself I farther considered, that, bymy irregular way of living. I wretchedly unspentmy time, which is the most valuable thing in thewor.d. Being struck with those reflections, I ga¬thered together the ruins of my estate, and soldall my moveables in the public market to the high¬est bidder Then [ entered into a contract withsoma merchants that traded bv sea. I took theadvice of such as I thought most capable to giveit me; and, resolving te improve what money I had,I went ta B.tlsora, a port on the Persian Gulph,and embarked with several merchants, who joinedwith me to fit out a ship on purpose.In oar voyage we touched at several islands,where we soid or exchanged our goods. One day,whilst under sail, we wore becalmed near i littleicl&nd, even alracst with the surface of the ^vs^e.which resembled a green meadow, flic capU.i♦rdered his sails to be furled, and suffered f «ch per-sans as had a mind to land upon the rsland, amoagwhom l vras one. . iBuo, while we were diverting ourselves witn eat-dag and drinking, and refreshing ourselves fromthe fatigues of the sea, the -island trembled r:*-1shook all of a sudden.They perceived the trembling of toe i-land onhaard the ship and cdled to us to reimjarkspeeci-flr. or we should all be lost; for whet we tooki'«r an island was only the back of :T whale. 1 hemhablest got into the sloop, others betooK them-. selves to swim; but, for mv part. I was still on thehick of the whale when he dived into the sea, andhad time only to catch hold of a piece of wood,that we had brought out <•{ tfte ship to make afire.Meanwhile* the captain having received those ohbeard .vho were in the sloop and taken up some otthose that s vam. resolved: to improve the favour¬able gale that had just risen, and hoistirg his sails,pursued his voyage, so that it was impossible to re¬cover the skip.Thu4 I was exposed to the merer of the waves,and struggled for ipy life ail the rest of the t-ay andthe following night. Next morning l found taystrength gone/and despaired of .-aving my .life,when a wave threw me happily against an island. Padvanced into the island^ and came at last into ahue plain, where I perceived ahorse feeding.Whilst I looked upon hi n, I heard the voice ofman from under ground who inr.mediately appear¬ed to me, and asked who I was. I gave him anaccount of my adventure, aficr which, taking mel»y tl»e hand, he led rne into a cave, where therewere several other people, r.o less amazed to seesr.e, than I was to see them.$T «te sotw O.vy cScresI tee, eni.having asked thtR wliti they did in each adesert i*wee? they aa*r/ered, that they wtrsgrocais, belonging to King Klhrane, icveicign ef£i<;e iidai'id; siid ttiat every 3 ear, at the same sea-*055, they brought thither l!:c king's horses, tili theyvere washed with the water of a neighbouring pool,fry virtue of which they were tendered strongertad at ore bfr.utii'uUNcM ii/Cuiiit g they departed, ami presented in«to the kit/-. After I had satisfied his erquitiee, hetele; me be was much concerned for my misfortune,,and. ct the s.ar.it’ time, eirdereti that I should cacCfor roti ing.As I war, one day at the port of the cif3', t- giriparrived, and as soon as they begi>a to unload her,r od the rnercliar.ts ch board ordered their goodst#'be cm rie-d into the moyaseine, I cast n*« eye upc*uoixie bales, and pasitiyed them to hr the same ltan ctebaried at Baisnra. I knew the ceptain, buts«i»g persusded chat lie believed me to be drown¬ed, I asked furr* whose oalcr tbf* wire? He ic«.pUcd. that they bcionged fes* merchant, in Bagdad,filled Stiidh/.d. who tame to si a with him, whov:-» drowned. Tiiosc i -lcs beici ged to him^sutdi cat resolved to trade wills rhem, until i n:eov id reme' of his family- to whom i nicy return thejvoht. I made tnyedf known to him, when he1 iitbraced roe, and «iid be was glad at my tscep#,t«d returned me all «>y goods.I took it jve of Kirg Mihnije, and went cnF aard the aavne ship, after I had exchanged rojgeeds of th»t eountry. Wc at last arrived at Ba»«r*.>ra. frow whence ( c»roc 1C Banded, with the va-f-.* ot 10Q(QOO sitjfin*.. hiy tsn iiy and I receiv¬er* ore another with traKincrts of joy. I boughtwaves ef bo<ij'! eexe**, fine lands, and built roe ahouse, rCfceivn'tg to f »rg at the * .iscrics I had suf¬fered.7TKi Secam-i Voyngt of SlnJbad ihs SzUor.I designed, after »y firit voyage, to spend iJ*ml of my days at Bagdad; but it was not eraI grew weary of an idle life. My ip.clinatien to,trade revived. I bought goods proper for the.commerce I designed, and put.to sea a second t^owith merchants of kno*n probity. We emberkedon board a good ship, and after recommendingoarselves to^God. set sail: wc traded from isknd>0 island, and exchanged commodites with greatprofit. One day we landed in an isle covered with•everal sorts of Iruit tree;, but so desart, that weeouid neither see man nor horse upon it Wc wentto take a little fresh air m the meadows, and alcn^the streams that watered them. VYhiilst some tit*verted themselves with cathering flowers, and otherswith gathering fruits I took my wine and provisi¬ons, and sat do^n by a stream betwixt two greatt’-ees, which formed a cuai ius shade. I made a verygood meal, and afterwards fell- asleep. I cannottall how long I slept; bait when I waked tl.t shipwas gone.I was very much surprised to find the ship wasgone; 1 got up, looked about every where, andcould aot see one of the merchants whe landed with-me. At last I perceived the ship under sail; butat such a distance, that I lost sight of her in a verylittle time I then climbed to t!i,e top of a gnsittree, when looking towards the sea, I could set-nothing but sky and water; but, looking toward*the land, [ saw something white; and coming downfrom the tree, I took up wh it provisions I hid ;♦ ft,sod went towards it, the distance being so grea%♦hat I could not distinguish what it was.When I came nearer, I thought it to be a whifcvhowl, of a prodigious height and bigness; and whenI came up to it, I touched it, and found it to ha '8 'very s*nop>tl». I went rousd to we if it was »pp*on soy side, but saw it wa? not. and that there w.i*no climbing up to the top of it, it was so smooth.It was at least 50 paces round.By this time toe son was ready to set. and tdlof a sudden the sky became as dark as if it hadbeen covered with a thick cloud. I was much3- toimhed at this sudden darkness, but much morewhen 1 found it was occasioned by a bird of a mon-mens size, that came flying towards me. I remem¬bered a fowl called Roc, that I had often heardmariners speak of, and conceived that the greatfowl, which I so much admired, must needs be itsegg. In short, the bird lighted, sud sat over theejrg t* hatch it. As 1 perceived her coming. I crepttdese to the egg. so that l had before me one of theh gs of the bird, that was as big as the trunk ofa tree; I tied myself strongly to it with the cloththat went round my turban, in hope* that when theroc flew away the next morning, she would teks mew ith her cut of this desart island. And after hav¬ing passed the night in this condition, the bird re*taallv flew away next morning, as soon as it was*dav, and carried me so high, that I could notthe earth; she afterwards descended ;ni of asude' i*with so much rapidity, that I lost my senses. Hutwhan the rock was sat. and that I found myself onthe ground, I speeuhy untied the knot, when thebird? having take™ up a serpent of a monstrouslength in her bill straight flew away.The place where it left me was a very deep val¬ley, encompassed on all sides with mountains s*b" h. that they seemed to reach above the clouds,at : so full of steep rocks, that there was no possi¬bility to tret out of the valley.As I walked through this valley, I perceived itv. r.s . ,re ved w ith diamonds, some of which were ofa surprising bigness.9I always looked upon it to be a fable, when I heardmariners and others discouise of the valley of dia¬monds, and of the stratagem made use of by somemerchants to get jewels from thrjjce, hut then1 found it to be true. For, In reality, t-tcse mer¬chants came to the neighbourhood of this valley,when the eagles have young ones, and throwinggreat joints of meat into this valley- the diamondsupon whose points they fall, stick to them; theeagles, which are :i*nazingly strong in this country,fall down with great force upon those pieces mmeat, and carry them to their nests upon-the topof the rocks, to feed their *oung eagles with; r.twhich time .the merchants, running to their aests,frighten the eagles by their noise, and take awaythe diamonds which Sikk to the meat.I believed ever till then, that it was not possiblefer me to get out of this abyss, which I looked uponas my grave; but then I changed . v mind; fer thefalling in of those pieces of meat, pat me in hopesof a way of saving my life.I began to gather together the rreatest diamondsthat I could see, and put them into the leather bagwhere I used to carry my provisions. 1 -efiej warnstook the largest peace of meat I could lir.d, tied itclose round me with the cloth of tr.y turban, andthen laid myself upon the ground, with my fheedownward, the bag of diamonds being tied fast touiy girdle, that it could not'poss'b'y prop oft’.I had scarce laid me down, till the eagles came,each cf them seized a piece of meat, and one ofthe strongest havmg taken me up, with the pieceof meat on my back, carried me to his nest on thetop of the mountain. The merchants fell straight¬way a shouting to frighten the eagles; and whenthey had ebliged them to quit their prey, one ofthem came up to the nest where * wa»; he10very much 3?! ffS'v nsc; but rccovcrinjjhimseir, instead of rmjuiring howr I came thither,he began to quarrel with me, and asked why I stolehh goods. “ You will treat me, replied I, withmore civ:l>ty. when you know me better. Don'ttrouble yourieif, [ have diamonds enough for you-j r'.d me too, more than all the ether merchants to¬gether. If they have any it is by chance; butI chose for myself, in the valley, all those who you«se in this bag; and having spake those words, Ishewed them to him. i had scarce done speaking,when the other merchants canri trooping about us»,very much astonished to see me, but they weremuch'more surprised when I told them my story;yet they did not so much admire my stratagem,to save myself, as my courage to attempt it.Ihey carried me to the place where they staidaltogether, and.there having opened my bag, they"were surprised at the largeness of my diamonds,and confessed that in all the courts where they hadbeen, they no r saw any that came near them.f.ie merchants had thrown their pieces of meatInto the vailev for several days; and each of thembeing satisfied with the diamonds that hid falleato his lot, we left the place next morning ail to¬gether. and travelled near high mountains, wherflthere were serpents of a prodigious length, whichwe had the good fortune to escape. We took thefirst port wc came at. and came to the Isle of II oh a,where I exchanged some of my diimonds for goodmerchandise. From thence we went to other isles,and at iaet, having touched at several trading towaac-f the firm, hod, we landed at B -lsora; from whencaI went to Bigdad. There I immediately gave greatelms to the poor, and lived honourably upon thevast richer 1 had brought, aad gained w th so much■ietiguc.11The Third Voyage of Sinbad the Sailor.The pleasures of the lifewhich I thenled, soon mademe forget the risks I h ul run in mj two formervoyages; but being then in the flower of my age,I grew weary of iivmg without Out ness, and hard¬ening m/seit against the thought of any dangerI might incur, 1 went from Il tgil t'f with the riche'-tcomtnodities of the country of laalsora. Tfiere I-embarked again with other merchants We madea long navigation, and touched at several port’s,with which we drove a considerable commerce.One day being out in the main ocean, we were at¬tacked by a horrible tempest, which made us loseour course.The tempest continued several days, and broohptits before the port of an island where the captainwas very unwilling to enter, but we were nbiigedto cast anchor there. V\ hen we had furled oue•ails, the captain told us, that this and some otherfteighbouriag islands, were inhabited by hairy sav¬ages who would speedily attack us and, thoughthey were but dwarfs, yet our misfortune was such,that we must make no resistance, for they werowore in numlier thuo ths locusts; ai * if we hap¬pened to kill one of them, they would all fall upon,us and destroy’ us.I his discourse of the captain put the wheio rqui-pvge into great consternation, and we found veuttoon to our cost, that whet h; had told us was buttoo true. An innumerable multitude of frightfulsavagrs, covered all over with red hair, and abauttaro feet b>gu, came swimming toward os. va 1 en¬compassed our ship in a iittle time, t hey -*pok-..;to us as they came near, but wm Understood net4'ieir language; they climbed up the sides cf the•trip nth surprising igiffy. We beheld ail this12with a rnortcl fear, without daring to offer at de-fending ourselves, or to speak oae word to divertth«»i from theii mischievous design. In short theytook down our sails, cut the cable, and hauling tothe shore, made us all get out, and afterwards car¬ried the ship ini.v ir,other island, from whence theyrame. Ail travellers ^carefully avoided that island,where they left us, it being very dangerous to staythere,for a reason y<m shall hear anon, but wc were1'erced to boar our affliction with patience.We went forward into the island, where we foundtome, fruits and herbs to prolong our lives a= longas we could;, but we expected nothing but ucath.As we went on. we perceived at a distance a greatpile of building, and made towards it. We foundit to be a palace well built, and very high, witha g ue of ebony of two leaves, which we thrust open.On entering the court, we saw before a vsat apart¬ment, with a porch, having on one side a heap ofmen’s bones, and on the other, a vast number ofroasting s’uts. We trembled at this spectacle, andbeing wearied with travelling, our legs failed underus, we fell to the ground, being seized with a asor-fear, ami lay a long time immoveable.The sun was set, and while we were in this !a-r-i on table condition just now mentioned, the gate(. the apartment opened with a great noise, and.there came out the horttble figure of a black a>a»,ns high as a tall palm tree. At the sight of sofrightful a giant, we lost ail sense, and lay us deadjuen.At last we came to ourselves, and saw him sit¬ting in the perch looking -at us; w’v.n he had eon--stdered us well, he advanced towards us, and layinghis hind upon not’, he trek m up by the nape 'itiwv neck, and turned me round a» a butcher woulddo a sheep’s head; Mtti having viewed me wtii.18and perceiving me to be ao lean that I had nothingbut skin and bone, he let me go. He took up ailthe rest one by one, viewed them in the same man¬ner. and the captain being the fattest, he held himwith one hand, as I would do a sparrow, and thrust¬ing a spit through him, kindled a great fire, roasted,and ate him in his apartment for supper; whichbeing done, he returned to his porch, where he layand fell asleep: he slept thus till the morning; forour part, it was not possible for us to enjoy anyrest, so that we passed the night in the most craslfear that can be imagined. Day being come, thegiant awaked, got up, i>tnt out, and left us in thepalace.Our condition was so very terrible, that severalcf nsy comrades designed, to throw themselves intothe sea, rather than die so strange a death; andthose who were of this mind, argued with the rc-tto follow their example. Upon which, one of ourcompanions answered, That we were forbid to de¬stroy ourselves; but, allowing it to be lawful, it wasmere reasonable to think of a way to rid ourselvesot the barbafous tyrant, who designed so cruel adeath for us.Having thought of a project for that, tmd, I com¬municated the same to my comrades, who improv¬ed it: “ Brethren, said I. you know there is a gm.tdvdcf timber floating upon the coast: if you willbe advised by me. let us make several 9 'ats of itto it may vurry us, and when they are dune, leavedrear there, till »ve mink lit to make use of them,in the mean time, we wiil execute the design todeliver ourselves from the giantf add if it succeed,we may stay here with patience till some ships j»un*y. that they may-carry us out of this fatal islced;but if it hsppen to miscarry, we wiii speedily gettsr our floats, and put tu -es. I confess, that bynipping ourseife* to the fury of the waves, tr« rtuin• risk ef losing our live-*: but if we do, is it not bet¬ter to be buried in the saa than in the entrails ofthis monster.” My advice was relished, and wemade floats capable of carrying three persons each.We returned t* the palace towards the evening,and the giant arrived a litt!e while after. We wereforced to conclude on seeing another of our com¬rades roasted: but at last revenged ourselves e>nthe brutish giant tints. -Vtter lie had made tn endof his cursed supper he lay down on hts back, andfell asleep. As soon as wc heard him snore ac¬cording to his custom nine of the boldest amongus, and myself, took each of us a spst. and puttingthem hits the fire till they were burning hot, wethrust them into his eye all it once, and blinded him.The p oin occasioned him to make a frightful cry,and to get up and stretch cut his hands, in orderto sacrifice some of us to his rage; but we ran tvsuch places as he could not find u?, and after hav¬ing sought Cor us in vain, he groped for the gateand went out howling dreadfully.We went out of the palace after the giant, andcame to the shore, where.we had left our flouts,and put them immediately into the ^ea. We wait¬ed lill day. in order to get upon iheai m case the.giant came towaids us with any guide of his ownspecies; but we hoped, if he did not appear by sun-vising, and give over his howling, which we stillheard, that he would die; and if that happened tvbe the case, we resolved to stay-fn that island, andnot risk our lives upon the floats; but day had scarceappeared till we ptreeivad our cruel enemy, accoriv-,py;ded with two others airn -.1 of the same size, lead¬ing him; and a great number more coming beforehim. with a very quick puce.When we taw this, we m; - uo delay, but gotipiniedkteiy upon our floats, and rowed off fron4h« shore. The giants, who perceived this, took up15great stones, and running to ihe shore, entered thowater up to the middle, and threw so exactly thatthey sunk all the floats but that I was upon, andall my comrades, except the two with me. weredrowned. We rowed with all our might, and gotout of the reach ot the giants. Next morning wehad the good luck to be thrown upon an island,tohere we landed with much joy. We found ex¬cellent fruit there, that gave us great relief, so that%we pretty well recovered our strength.In the evening we feii asleep on the bank of tVisea, but were avYaked by the noise of a serpent ailong as a palm-tiee, whose scales made a rustlingas he crept along. He swallowed up one of mycomrades, notwithstanding his loud cries, and theefforts he made to rid himself from the serpent;which, alter shaking him several times ag,jinst theground, crushed him, and we could hear him gnawthe poor wretch’s bor.es, when we had fled at 4great distance from him.As we walked about, we saw a large tall treeupon which we designed to pass the followingnight f>r our security; and having satisfied ou?hunger with fVuit, we mounted it accordingly. A.little while after, the serpent came hissing to thoroot ot the tree, as. i raised itself up against thetrunk of it, and mtetiug with my comrade, wh*sat lower Uh-.n I, swallowed him at once, and wee!off.I ctr. J upon the tree till it wa* day. and thencame down, more like a d..ad man than one alive,wperting the -same late with my two companions.This ni.cd me witn horror, so that I was going tythrow rvyse'f into the sea; but nature promptingus to a desire to rive as long as we can, 5 withstoodtins temptation to despair, and submitted myselfto the will %;t God, who disposes of our Uyes st Liopleasure.16. ^Proviilence alsa interposed in. a remarkablemanner to preserve me frd a this fatal resolution ;for just as I was going to ’tMrow myself into theeea I perceived a ship at a considerable distance.I called as loud as I could, and taking^the linenfrom mv turban, displayed it, that they might ob¬serve me. This had the desired effect, all the crewperceived me, Snd the captain sent me his long¬boat. A.s soort as I came aboard, the merchantsand seamen flocked about me to know how 1 eameinto that desart island ; and after 1 had tola theai*1; that befe! me, the oldest among them tola md,they had several times heard of the giants whodwell in that island, that they were cannibals, -r.deat men raw as well as roasted; and as to toe ser¬pents, they added, that there were abundance mthe isle that hid themselves by day, and cameabroad at night. After having testified tneir joyat mv escaping so many dangers, they brought methe best of what they had to eat; anp toe captain,seeing thn I was ail Ip rags, was so generous asto rive me one of ids own suits. _ _ .In short, .aftet a long voyage. I arrived at Bal-sera. and from thence returned to Bagdad, wihl somuch riches, that 1 knew not what I had. I gavea great deal of alms to the poor, and bought ano¬ther great estate to what I had alreat y.The Fourth Voyage of Sinbdd, the Sailor.The pleasures I took after my third voyage had»ot charms enough to divert me from anotliea. 1was again prevailed upon by my ^ ^and curiosity to see new things. I h.rctore putmv affairs in order, and having provided a stock Q*Oods fit for the place where I designed to trade,I set out on ray journey. I tooic the way of I er-sie, of waieii I travelled several provinces, a. *17*4eh armed at a port where I embarked. We setsail, and having touched at several qorts of TerraRrma. and some of the eastern islands, we pat outta sea, and was seized by such a sudden gust ofwind, as obliged the captain to furl his sails, andt# make all ether nesessary precautions to preventthe danger that threatened us. But ail was invain, our endeavours took no effect, the sails weretore in a thousand pieces, and the ship was strand¬ed,-so that a great many of the merchants andseamen were drowned, and the cargo lostI had the good fortune, with several of the mer¬chants and mariners, to get on a plank, aad wewere carried by the current to an island which laybefore us. We walked from t«e shore, and ad¬vancing into the island, saw some houses’ to whichwe went; and as sooq as we came thither, we weretneoinp%|:;ed by a great number of blacks, «T.«•»eiaed uff'shs.red us among them, a.:d carried us !•their rc®pec*ive habitationsI and my five comrades were carried to mseplace; they made us sit down immediately, andgave us a certain herb, which they made signs fartis to eat. My comrades not taking notice thatthe blacks ate none of it therr^kes, consulting»«'iy the satisfying of their own hifiwer, foil te eat-tBi it with greediness. But I suspecting sometr.ick, would not so : ic!i su taste it. which hap¬pened well for me, for in a little time after, i per¬ceived my companions bad lost their senses, andthere when they spoke to me they knew not vbatthey said.Toe blacks fed u* ofterwaads with rice preparedwith oil of cocoa* and my comrades who had losttheir reason, eat of it greedily. I eat of it aims,but very sparingly. The blacks gave us that herlsat first on purpose to deprive us of our senses, thstwe might not be awgre of the sad destiny preoar-ISvj for ue; for. being cannibals, their design was4a eai us as soon as we grew fat. They did ao-eardingly eat ray comrades who were not sensibleaf their condition; but my senses being entire, you.r*iy easily guess, that instead of growing fat as thorest did. I grew leaner every day. The fear ofdeath, under which I laboured, turned all my foodrnto poison, I fell into a languishing distemper,t'ljicn proved my safety; for the blacks, havingtrlSeJ and eat up my companions, seeing me to bawithered, lean and sick, deferred my death till•no:her time.Meanwhile, [ had a great deal of liberty, so thatthere was scarce any notice taken of what l did,tud this gave me an opportunity one d iv to get ata distance Irom the houses and to make my escape.An old man, who saw me, and suspected mv de-tigu, c.tliet.1 to me as loud as he could to return vfcut instead of obeying him, l redoubled my pace,rad quickly gtn oat of sight, ^t that time therev?&8 none but the old man about the houses, tnarost being abroad and not to come home til! Right,vvnich was pretty ustnl with them, fherefore,being sure that they could ::ot come time enoughto pursue me, 1 v.ent on till right then t stopt torest a little and to eat som* of the provisions l hadtaken care for. but I speeady set forward againtcid irvelled seven days, avoiding those place#which seemed to be iitiiabited. and lived for themost part upon cocoa nuts, which served ms bothter meat and drink. On the eighth day I came*ea-the sea, and allpf asudden saw white people liketnyself. gathering of pepper, of which there wasgreat plenty in thatpktce ; this l took to be & goademen and went to them witheut any scruple.The people who gathered pepper came t» meetme ass.oon as they saw me, and asked me in Vra-fcjc who 1 was, and Whence i cauit ? 1 was ovew-13k- .to hear them rpeak in rcy own langnags,and willingly sati-Sed ti\eir curiossity by givingthem an ucccaat of my ihlpwreck, and how [ feuSato the hands of the blacks. Those hiicks, re¬plied they, eat men, and by what miracle did yeaescape their cruelty ? 1 laid them the same storyF now tell you, at which they were wonderfullyturpristd.1 staid with them till they had gathered thrifquantity of pepper4 and then sailed with fcheta toshe island tro a whence they came. 1’hey present¬ed me to their king, who was a good prince, b<*had the patience to nc-i the relation of my ad¬venture, which surprised him ; and he afterward®pave me clothes, and commanded cart to be takenof me.The island was very well peopled, plentiful ofevery thing, and the capital was a place of preattrade, ['his agreeable place cf retreat wuk ' aryoomfortable to me after my misfortune, srul theI mb ness of this generous prince towards me cott*-I'leated my satisfaction. In a word, then- was nat& person more in favour with him than myself, aidirs consequence every man in court and city soughthew to oblige, me: so that in a very little time 1was looked upon rather as a native than a stran¬ger.As I made my court very exactly to the khtg,he says to me one day, “ Sinbad I lore thee, anio*l subjects who know thee treat thee accord¬ing to my example. I have one thing to demandefthee which thou roust grant, and thitimmedi-fctcly. '■ Sir,” answered [ “ there is nothing butwhat I will do, as a mark »f my obedience to yoarmajesty, whose power over me is absolute.” “ lhave a mind tliat thou shouldst marry," replies he,‘ that so thou mayest stay in my dominions, andthink no more of thy own country.” I dared not20to, resist the prince’s will, and so he gave me »*e•fthe ladies of his court, a noble, beautiful, chaste,apd rich lady. The ceremonies of marriage beingever, l went and dwelt with the lady, and for sometime we lived in perfect harmony. I was not,however, very well Satisfied with my condition,and therefore designed to make my escape on thefirst occasion, and to return to Bagdad ; which rays<ent settlement, how advantageous soever, couldnot make me forget.There is a law which is established in this island,and which is always observed inviolably. Theliving husband is interred with the dead wife, andthe living wife with the dead husband.I could not forbear speaking my thoughts ofthis matter to the. king : " Sir.’' sirs I, “ ? cannot«BOUgU express ray wonder at the strange customin this country, of burying the living witlf thedead, I have "been a great traveller, and seenirany Countries, bat never beard of so cruel a law.<• What do you mean, Siubad,’ says the king, ‘‘ itis a common !*.w : f shall be interred w.th the^ueeo, mv vifs, if she dies first. “ But bir,r.iys I, “ umv 1 presume to demand of your ma*jestv, if strangers be obliged to observe this law r'• Withoiit doubt,’’ replied the king, smiling at theoccasion of my question, “ they are r^t excepted,if they be married in this island.”I went home very melancholy at this answer;for the fear of my vife’s dying first, and that 1should be interred with her occasioned rae to h?vt?very mortifying refley ions- But there was no rv-ttiddy, l.uiust.hfye patience, and snbmit to tl;a yr.it#f God* I trembled, however, at every btlle in¬disposition of myr wife; but ala* 1 in a short, timemy fears came up m me ail at once, for s:tc fell*ick. and died in a few days.To be interred alive, segioed to me as dcplorit'We an end, as to be devoured by cannibals ; but Imust submit. The kin^ ai’d all bis court wouldhonour the funeral with their presence, and themost considerable people of the city d'd the like.When all was r< adv for the ceremony, the corpswas put into a coffin with all her ’eweis and mag*nificent apparel The cavalcade was begun andas second actor of this doleful tragedy, i went#ext the corpse, with rey eyes full of tears bewail¬ing my deplerable fate. Before l came to themountain, 1 addressed myself to the king in thefirst place and then to those who were round me,and bowing before them to the earth, to kiss theborder of their garments I prayed upon them tohave compassion upon me. Condder,'’ said I,■‘that I am a stranger, and eu^ht not to he sub¬ject to this rigorous law and that I have anotherwife and children in my own country.” it «a» tono purpose for me to speak thus no soul wasmoved at it, or the contrary, they trade haste tolet my wife’s cotps into the p:t, an< put me dow»the next moment in an open coffin, wnh vessel•f water and srven loaves. In shoit. the (atal ce¬remony being performed, the) c< v«.rid up thomouth of the pit, notwithstanding the excess oftpy grief and my lamentable cries.As I crime near the bottom. I discovered by thehelp of the little light that came fr .m above, thenature of this subterranean place it was a vastlonii cave, and might be about 50 fathom deep.I immediately felt an insufferable stench, proceed-fng from the multitude of dead corpse which Isaw on the right and left; nay. I fancied I hoardsome of them sigh out their last. However, wheatI got down I immediately left my ccffie, . nd ga¬ting at a distance from the corpse held my nose,ond lay down upon the ground, vbtrt • staid aTong time bathed in tears.Thouph the darknets of the cave was so greatthat I could not distinguish day and night, yet lalways found mv coffin again, and the cave srem-ed to me more spacious, and fuller of corpses thaait appeared to me at first- I lived for some daysupon my bread and water, which being all spentI nas preparing for death.At this time I heaid something walking, andhlowins arid panting as it walked. I advancedtowards that side from whence l heard the noise,and upon my approach the thing puffed and blewharder as if it had been running away from me,l followed the noise and the thing seemed to stopsometimes, but always fled and blew as L ap¬proached. I followed it so long and so far. till atLat 1 perctived a liijht resembling astir; I wenton towards that light, and sometimes lost sight ofix- b 't always found it again, and at last discover¬ed that it cime through a hole in the rock, largocaough for a man to .jet out at.Upon this. I sropt some lime to rest myself,being much fatigued with pursuing this discoveryho fast; afterwards coming up to the hole. 1 wentwat at it, and found myself upon the sea. I leavoyou to guess at the excess of my jov ; it was suchti*at l could scarce persuade myself of iis beliefveal.But when I was recovered fiom my surprise,ami convinced of the truth of the matter, [ foundthe thing which I hod followed, and beard puffaati blow, to ha a creature which came cut of theatm, and was accustomed to enter at that hole toupon deati carcasses.I considered the mountain, and percoived it toWe situated betwixt the see and the town, butwithout any passage or way to communicate withfae letter, the rocks on the side of the sea beingam rugged and steep, I felt down upca the sLcre23to return God thanks for his mercy, and afterwardsentered the cave and groped about among thebiers for all the diamonds, rubies pearls, gold,bracelets, and rich stuffs I could find; these Ibrought to the s^iore. and t\ing the n up neatlyiaio bales, with the cords that let down »he coffins,1 laid them together upon the bank when next dayI ptreeived a ship that hart but jest come out ofthe harbour and passed near the pi \ce where Iwas. 1 made a sign with the linen of my tmban,and called to them as loud as I could ; they heardme, and cent a sloop to bring me on b inrd VYhenthe miriners asked by what misfortune I camethither. 1 told fnein that 1 suft red shipwreck twodays a20. and made shift to get ashore with thagoods they s w. It was happy for me that thesepeople rtid not consider the p'.ice where I was. norconsider the probability of what l told thorn, butwithout any more ado. took me on heard with mypoods. When l came to the ship the captain wa*so well pleased to have saved me. and so muchtaken ut> with his own affiirs that he also took theStory of my pretended shipwreck upon trust, andgenerously refused some jewels which 1 had offer¬ed him.We pissed by severe! islands, and among othersfiat called Serendib. with a regular wind sixlaagnes from that of Kela, where we landed. ThisUittd produces lead-mines, Indian canes, and ex-ceifenf camphire.After we had finished eur commerce in thatWand we put to sea again and touched at sevc rjJWher ports- at last 1 arrived happllc at Bagdad,witn infinite riches : of which it is needless to trou-lie you wit i the detail. Out of thankfulness toGod for hi* mercies, 1 gave great alms for the eo*attainment of several mosques, and fo: the sub*ttstoiice of the poor, and employed myself wutdiy■ enjoying »y kindrud and friends.The Ffik Voyage qf Sinbad, the SailorThb pleasures 1 had enjoyed had agiin chirmsenough to make me forget the troubles and cala¬mities I had undergone, without curing me of myinclination to make new voyigcs. Therefore Ibought goo-Is, ordered them to be packed up and'Ipaded, and set out with them for the best s-apprt; and there, that I might not be obliged t»depend upon a'! captain, but have a ship i at my•'vn command, 1 staid till one was built on pur¬pose, at my own charge. When the ship was rea¬dy, l went on board with my goods ; but not hav¬ing enough to load her, l took on board me seve¬ral merchants of different nations with their mer-chandizo.Are sailed with the first fair wind, and, atter along navgatibn, the first place we touched at was• desart island, where we found an egg of a roe,equal in bigness with that I formerly mentioned.There was a young roe in it, just ready t0 J*®hatched, and the bill of it began to appear. Ihemerchants, whom I had taken on bo.'rd my ship,and who landed with me broke the egg with hat¬chets. and made a hole in it from whence they»«Med out the young roe piece after piece, androuted it. 1 had earnestly dissuaded them frommeddling with the egg, but they would not listento me. .;Scarce had they made an end of their treat,wh-n the he and she roe that belonged to theyoung one approached with a frightfnl noise, w ic.they redoubled when they saw the egg broke, andtheir young one gone. But having a mind to avengethemselves, they flew back towards the place fromv hence they came and disappeared for some time,while we made all the sail we could, tothat which unhappily befel us.—Theytad we perceived that each of them carried he*259twixt their talers, stones, or rather rochs of mons¬trous size. When thej came directly over my ship,thev hovered, and one of them let fall a stone ex¬actly upon the middle of the ship, that it split in athousand piecer. The mariners and paisengersifere all killed by the stone or sunk. 1 myself hadthe last fate; but as 1 came up again I catched bold,by good fortune, of a piece of the wreck, and sr. imming sometimes with one hand, and sometime withthe other, but always holding fast my board, thewind and tide being for me, I came to an islandwhose bank was very steep, f overcame that d..-ficulty, however, and got ashore.When I was a little advanced into the island Isaw an old man, who seemed to me very weak andfeeble. Ho sat upon the bank of a stream, and atfirst 1 took him to be one who had been shipwreck¬ed like myself. I went towards him. and salutedlhim; but he only bowed his head a little. I askedhim what he did there, but instead cf answering me,he made a sign for me to take him upon my back,and carry him over the brook, signify ing that itwas to gather fruit.I believed him really to stand in need of myhelp, so took him upon my back, and having carriedhim over, bid him get down, and for that end Istooped, that he might get off with ease; but in¬stead of that (which makes me laugh at everytime I think on't) the old man, who to me appear¬ed very dect'epid, clasped his legs nimbly about myneck, and then [ perceived his skin to resemblethat of a cow-. He sat astride upon my shoulders,xnd held my throat so sttrit, that 1 thought hewould have strangl,.* me. the fright of whichmade me faint r.way and fall down.Notwithstanding my fainting, the illnatured oldfellow kept fast about my neck, but opened his legsa little to give me time to recover my br«ath. WhewBI had done so, be tUurst one of his feet againststcrnach, and ruck me so rudely on the side withthe other, that he forced me to rise up against naywill. Being-gpt up he matle me walk under thetrees, and forced rr,e now and then to stop, togather'and eat such fruit as we found. He neverleft me all day, and when I lay down to rest meby night. ’ laid himself dowry with ^me, holdingalways fest about my neck. Every morning hepushed me, to make me aw ake, and afterwards ob¬liged me to get.up and walk, and pressed u;e withhis feet. You may judge then what trouble I yasin, to be charged with such a burden as I couldnoways rid myself from.One. day I found in my way several dry cala¬bashes, that brad,fallen freta a tree; .1 tcok a largeone, and, after cleaning it pressed into it somejuice of grapes which abounded in the island; hav¬ing filled the calabash, I set it in a convenientplace, end coming hither again some days after,I took up my calabash, and setting it to- mymouth, found the wine to be so good, that it; mademe presently not only forget my sorrow, but tgrew so vigorous, and was so light hearted that Ibegan to sing and dance as I walked along.if. The old man perceiving the effect which thiddrink had upon me. ami that I carryed him witkmore ease than before, made a sign for me to givehim san e of it. I gave him the ■.'dabash, andthe liquor pleasing his palate, he drank it all oti.There being enough ot it for to fuddle him hebecame drunk immediately, and the fumes gettingup into his head, be began to sing after his man¬ner, end to dance with his breech upon m3 shoul¬ders. His jolting about made me vomit, and hflloosened his legs from about me by degrees. 1 threwhim upon the ground, where ho lay without motion,and then l took up a great stone with which I crush¬ed his head to pieces.I was cxtretiisly rejoiced to bo freed thus fromthis cursed oid fellowy and walkedurion the banksat' the sea, where: I rhet witff the crew of a shipthat had cast anchor, tb take in water and re¬fresh themselves They were-extremely surpriz¬ed to see in a, and to hear the particulars of niyadvantures. You fell, said they, ioto the handsof the oM man of the sea, and are the first thatever escaped strangling fey biro. He never leftthose he had -once r aide himself ma-ter of till hedestroyed them, and he has made this island famousby the number of men he has slain, so that the mer¬chants and mariners who landed upon it, dar.d notto advance into the island h::t in numbers together.fj One of the merchants-of the ship who had takenme in friendship, obliged ,tre to go along with him,and carried me to ap’ace Appointed far a retreatfor foreign merchant*.' lie gdve me a bag, and.having recommended -me to some people of thetown, who used to gather co.-.os, he dented themto fake me with them to do the like : ” Go; s.r s ,he, follow them, and do as you see them do, an.ddon't scp.ratc fro a them, otherwise y-^a .endcu-ger your life. ’ Having thus -poke, be gave meprovisions fori the journey, cti i v/eat with '.them.We come t® a great forc-.t of trees, exU-emfei-ystraight and tall, end their tvtirtjts were so smooth,-that if tvasdmpossioitf for any ^tan to G-.t.b-* p thebranches, that bore the- fruit. Ail the trees werecocois-tiet.s, and when wc erfertu the forest * ee a * a great number of upas of several f.i/cs, tintf,e l as soon a- tixev o ropi" 3>l climbing, t.pto the Unp, oij the trees with surprising swiu:-»ts>.| Tile march iflfs v.it’i whom I was, gathered.stones, and tSirew tneru at the,apes on the teps ofthe trees. 1 did the same, and tl.v-as out ofr.!-!' vaage tot ear eproa-rpUs »•*. us as last, and w.th,such gestures ».s .- ulEi.ien'ly testified, their .ang- r- and r^scntui^|if; u e. gatucie I up tcocoa.;,28from time to time threw stones to provoke the *t pes; so by this stratagem we tilled our bags with“ Cocoa*sots, which it had befen impossible for us 'to have done otherwise.When we had gathered our number, we return¬ed to the city, where the merchant who sent me ,to the forest, gave me the value of the cocoas Ibrought; “ Go on,” says he, “and do the like everyday- until you have got money enough to carry yeahome.” I thanked him far his good advice, andinsensibly gathered so many cocoas as amoantedto a cr - iderable sum.The vessel in which I came, sailed with rffer-ofoanls who* loaded her with cocoas. I expectedthe srrivol of another, -rhiah landed speedily torthe like loading. I embayed on board the asmsfill (lie cocoas that belonged to m®, and set sail to¬wards the island where pepper grows in plenty.I exchanged my cocoas for pepper and wood t>i'iocs, and went with other merchants a pearl fi-h-ing, I hired divers, who fetched me up those thatWere very large and pure. I embarked joyfully oaa vessel that arrived happily at Baisara; fromthence I returned to Bagdad, where I made vastsums of my pepper, w ood of aloes end pearls. Igtve the tenth of my gam in alms, as 1 bad don®opon my return from other voyages, a « endea¬voured to ease myself from my fatigues, by drver-tions of all sorts.T/ie S/xti V<rjz?r. «/ Slndbad. the Sailor.It must appear astonishing, that fifter beinship wrecked fire times, and escaping so many u an¬gers, I could resolve again to try my fortune, andexpose myseif to new hardships. I am astonisher,it it myself, wlsen l think on it, and mast certainlyhave been induced by my stars.-- But be that uo*29ii will, g'ter a year’s rest, I prepared far a sixt’vvoya^e, nnt-vichstaniing t^e prayers of noy kin-dred and friend*, wtio did all that 'vas possible toprereat ane.fnvte;-d of caking my way by the Persian gdlph,I trav died or ce more through several provinces oPerea : nd the Indies, and arrived at a sea-por%vrliere I em'varked on bord a sh'p the captain o-v.hicii v/as r asolved on a long voyage.It w s very lon^ indeed, but at the same }inn‘t>so unfortunate that the captain and piiot lost the:"course so as they knew not where they were.They t und it at last, but we haf- no ground to ve-'ioioc at it. iVe were ill seized witli extraordinfi-'* ry faar. whea we saw the captain quit his pus-end err out. He threw of his turbun pulled tin--hi:r of his heard and beat his head like a nuvicon. Ve asked him the reason, and he answer¬ed, tin*, he was in the most dangerous place of C-’;the se* A rapid currunt carries it along -nth ?uend wr- shall ill of »s perish in less than a quartercf h jur. Pray to God to deliver us from thl.jlaager, we c innut escape it, if he don’t take pi*on us. At t ese words he ordered the saiis tochanged.—hi t all the ropes broke, and the ship,with out being possible to hfelp it, was carried by^he cur*enttc the foot of an inaccessible rnountciKvdiere rhe ru i nsbore and broke to piecer, yet '*•'as we aaVed our livea, our provisions, and thebast of our g ods. *•Tui* iciae over, the naptaia «ay» ob, ’ Go'f^js BUiT dor, what he ple&ssd, we may every,ta3dig our grave here, aad bid the world adieu futvs nr:: Li so fatal a place, that noae ehipwreektj*''here d,i ever return to their honae# again.” His£r<cears'i'a£ sted ns moriJly, and we enacAiceAone another idth tWi la •or eyes, bep&dag pu:I vt,soiThe mountain at the foot of vraicli re wereCtrl, wps the coast of'a very large Islam.. Thjscoast was cohered ail over wi.'i wrecks, and hytits vast number, of mans bones v;e saw everywhere, and w kith. it.led us witn horror, we con¬cluded that abdundance of people had uled there.It is also incredible to t< 11, what a quantity ot goodsr.rd riches we found cast ashore there. All thoseobjects served only to augment our grief. Vflsere-r.s in all other places, rivers ran flora their chan¬nels into the sea, here a greet river of ftesh wsrerruns cut of the sea into a dark cave, whose en¬trance is Very high and large.We continued on the shore, like u en out cltheir senses, and expected death every day. At.lirst we divided our provisions as equally as wecould, and so every one lived a longer or a shorterwhile, according to their .temper;ad the use  7 ^8 c. 1 'they made of their provisions. ^'chose who died vlrst were Interred by the restand as for my part, I paid the last duty to all mvcompanions: nor are you to wonder at this; nrhusbanded the provisions that fell to my share t et¬ter then they; yet when f buried the last, I had a»little remaining, that I thought I could not ho.dcut any longer, b » that I digged a grave, resolv¬ing tv lie down ia it, because there was none ki«elk- to inter me.But it T'ieascd God once more to take compass¬ion on me, and put in my mind to go t-1 ^hej?a _cf the rivar which runs into the great cave, whereU» p* ^ '2’ IXtomT?p:f, " n* river. -U,ch-round must come out some where orct“cl;j mske a float, and leave rayselt to the cuweat,Providence may bring me to sorao.try where I may,, perha^, find some new occasion4t ■niSIkaded it with rub^a' cc^.r^As t,rA rich ft'^,and so r(?<?urm«JT myself to the Will of God. enter ■ed tli? cave; which’I fcsd no sooner done, then Ilost aU light, and the stream c . ed me 1 Vn.-.wnot wfiitht r. Thus I sailed_ sonic dajs in pa tec tdarkoees. and once found the rich so low. to.itit well nigh broke my head, vdiicli niatle me • »•/captious r.ftorvvards of *. .oicirg tue like■ Ail this while to support n.tare; yet notwun'fmi -mz this frugality, ail mv provisions r.ercThen? p';a.;ant sleep seiz.d anon me. 1. <*ann«tell how long it continued; but ween . nr-,a.cert, 3was surprised to find myself in : • P midcIc'U a vastcountry, at the brink of ft river, where my heatwas tied, amidst a gre^t number ot negro-. .pot up as soon as I saw them arm sanited then*,i’h • ■ spoke to me, but I cut net tn.aeratand tne..language. * , . , . ,One cf the blacks who understiod Arabic, hear-ingme speak in that language, canic tows res, meand said, “ Brother, pray tell us your mvo-y. R rti must? be extraordinary; and whence ao } 4*urnme” 1 bcu-ged of tb.e» drst to give me some •Shi.«». »«i ««•1 »p« -*t,;7 •J?" TT-V 0 Th«' pave me several sorts of food, and whe,iT had satiUed my hun’Ser. 1 gave them a true a -eount of what had befallen me, which they lutene.admiration. As soon as I had finished my#ne of the most surprising stonesa«d that I must go along with them and tell it theiri ravf df ‘ the tiling was too extraordinary to betoidhi b? an, other than the person to whom itbappeued. I told them that I was ready to So w hat-eTWe marE^togeUier tdl we came to the c|ty«£ icfcadib, Xor it ”-s ia thit where 1 J‘‘«4U•i5*The bhrks }iresent?si me to their k'nfr. Iapproached hia throne, aud saluted him as 1 Ui*;!Co do the kings of the Indies; that is *• ray, I pros-trated myself at his feet and Liased the earth. Ths-prince ordered nse to rise up, rcceired n;s with a*•bliging air. and made ms eo ns up and sit doranear him He first asked me my name, and I an*twered J^ndbad the Stiior. because of the manyvoyages I had undertaken, and that I was a citint*-«f ti igdad. ’* liut,' rei»iias he, How did jmuCmoiv mto iny dominions, and from wlience cair cyou lastI concealed nothing from the king; [ told Ideaall that I have now told you and his mrjesty waxto surprit • « und charmed with it. that he cor»-aaanded my adf'entures to be writ in letters of gold,and laid up in the arcliires of .'his kingdom. .455.ut ir,y 8 )it wis brought to him, and the hales•pelted i.s his presence; he admired the nuiatiiy•f wood of aloes, and ambergrease, but a hare all,the rabies and cniira1 Is far he had noae in his trea-»urv that came netr themOsserrmg that he ’aoked on my jewels with plea-cure, and viewed the most remarkable among the#*•oe after aaath'ar, l fill prostrate at h e feet, aaitook the liberty to sty t» him, “ Sir not only myperson is at your majesty's service, but the cargo «fthe float, and I beg of you to dispose of it as yourHe answered nu with a satile, ‘ Sindbai,,will taka ctre not to corot any thing of ycur*,to take any tiling from yon that God hus give**0*; far fra.n Icisening your wealth, I design tw>7 anient it, and will not let you go out of nay d**•“.^ions without marks of my libef.-iiitjr." AH tha**• wer I returned wai prayers for tlic pr^perity ofwon prince, smi commeadaimne of his ge icrueiS'jfth»t^a!tll,jr. H» charged one of hia oiScer* U*ni 0ire of ate, and ordered p cap it It aerie ar ffiIh4333} f own charge. The officsr was very faithful i*fhe execution of his orders, and made all tire gooesto be carried to the lodging’ provided .or me.1 prayed the l ing to allow me to return to s»rcountry, which he granted in the moat obliging anand most honourable manner. He would neetisforce a rich present upon me; snd when 1 went totake my leave of him, he pare me one much moreconsiderable, and at the same time charged me mui& letter for Caliph iiaroun Alrachid.The ship set sail, and after a *^3 and very suc¬cessful voyage we landed at Balsora, from whence *I went to Bagdad, where the first thing I did Wk.sto Ecquit my-it If of my commission.I took the king of Serendib’a letter, ana went to•resrr.t myself at the gate of the Commander ®.the Faithful followed by the beautiful slave, andsuch of my own family- as carried the present*. 1rave an acccur.t of tiie recson of my coming,^ sn*was immediately conducted to the throne c. tncCaliph, i made my reverence by prostration, an.aPer a short speech, gave him the letter end pre-fc'nt. Whi n he had read what the king of Sercn-«ib wrote to him he said to me. “ The wisdom ctthat kin - appears in his letter, and after what y«*tell me. I must confess, that his wisdom is worth}cf his people, and bis people deserve ec wise aprincf ” Haring spoke thus, he discharge^ jw*and sent me home w th a rich present.The Seventh ?<>&>%*( of Sindbad the Sailor.Bfiko returned from my sixth voyssge I £Jr*,-lotelv laid aside all my thoughts of tra*.oding so-farther. For besides'that ray years did' now re¬quire rest, i was resolved no snore to expose n.j-srl* to such risk? a? I had run. Sj Vnist i thought»f nothing hut to pa*s the rest of my day* in quiet.One day as l w&*‘ treating a parcel of »ny Iriends,•ne of my servants came and told me, that an offi-ot the Caliph’s asked for me. I rose from thetable, and went to hi a. “ The Caliph,” says he,h-i* sent ine to tell you, that he’ must speakwith you.” I followed the officer to the pJace.v/here beingjj presented to the Caliph, I saiutedhim by prostrating myself at his feet." “ Sindbad,says he to me - “ I stand in need of you:' youmust do me tiie serviee to carry my answer andpresent to the king of Sercndib. It is but just Ishould return his civility.1 prepared far ray departure in a few days, and»a? soon as the Caliph’s, letter and present was delivered to me, T wer e to Salsora, where i embarkedand had a very prosperous voyage. I arrived atthe isle of Sereadib, where I acquainted the kin^s•ministers with ray commission, and prayed thenotcyet me speedy audience. I hey did so. and I was co¬nducted to the palace in an honourable manner,where I saluted the kiny by prostration, accordingto cusCon:.The king of fersndih was mightily pleased thatthe Palipu answerdd his friends;.ip. A little timeafter tehis audience I solicited leave to depart, ami•brained the same with ranch difficulty.I got it however at last, and the kra.g hen hedischarged me, made me a very considerable pre¬sent l embarked insmeaicieiy to return to Bagdadbut had not the good tottune to arrive thers as Ihoped. God ordered it otherwise.three or four days aftyr ray depirture. we vereattacked by Corsairs, wlt<* •easily eeizeu upon oarsnip, because it was no vessel of force. Sonie ofthe crew odering fesiu a.ice, which cost them tneiri/es Cut forme and the rest, who vr re not *•>imprudent, rhe Corsairs rparcil a on purpose tnm ike slaves of us.I fail the hands of a rich merchant, who assoon as he.bouyht me, carried me to his hopse,$5J *•-#* i • WV < *1 Ttyiti -j • -^iW ” *•' - ■* 4 •*’*' treated we treil, and cinq-me hanusomely for atiave.1 ■ S:>rce-dj\'* after knowing what I vfti.he aiked roe.if I nnd#rstGp4 aBy,irpde; ! answeredthat I was no mechanic, hut a-twer^haat, cod thatthe Ccrsp-irs V/ho fold n o. robbed me of ail I hadPut teil me,” replies he^ “ can you shoot with abowr” I answered the bt;>v was ere of theexercises of my youth, anti i had not yet forgot it.”Thcn-he gave me a b«w aad :arrows. • and, with adress peculiar to ti?e island, carded me to a forestt some leagues from the town. ,We went a greatway into the forest, and when he. thought f t to stopthe bid me alight, end shewing me a rrt;at tree,“ Climb up that tree.” says he,i “.antjf. simot at theeh-hrnts as yon see tliesp, pass by, for there is aprodigious number of them in this forest, and if anyof them fall, come and give me noth e of it.” Har¬ing spoke thus, he left me victuals, and returnedto the tv.wn, and ! continued upon the tree all night.I sew no elephant during that time, but the nextmorning, as soon as the cun was up, I saw a greatnumber. 1 shot several arrows among them, and atlast ore of the elephant'’ fell, the rest retired im¬mediately, and left me at liberty to go and acquaintmy patron with my booty when l told him the new*he gave me a good meal, commended my dexterity,and caressed me mightilyI continued this game for two months, and killedan elephant every day, getting sernttimes uoon onetree, and sometimes upon another. One morning,as I looked for the elephants, 1 perceived with a*extreme amazement, that instead of parsing by meacross the forest as usual, they stopped, end cameto me with a horrible noise, in such numbers thatthe earth was covered witli them, and shook underme. They encompassed the tree where 1 whs, withtheir trunks extended, and their eyes all f « d upoame. At thi-s frightful spectacle I continued im¬moveable, and was so much frightened that wytew end arrows fell out of my hand.36My fear* were Both; vain; for after the elephastastared upon me seme tis'e. one of the larg¬est of them put his trunk round the root of the tree,;!«d pulled so strong, that he plucked it up, an!threw it on the ground; I fell with the tree, anithe elephant taking me up with hia trunk, laid memu his back, where I sat more like one dead thanalire, with my quiver on my shoulder; he put him-seif afterwards at the head of the rest, who follow¬ed him in troops, and carried me to a place wherehe laid me down on the ground, and retired withaii his companions.I retired very well satisfied with the honour* Ireceived, and the presents which he gave me;aud after that 1 gave myself up wholly to myfa-ztily, kindred aud fm-uds.FINIS.