tmui New—SONGS;.ENTITLED'Johnny's Grey-BreeksWith the Anjwer.THE TEMPEST.The Confiderate NYMPH.[ * 3 .JDHNNT‘3 GilEY BREEKl* v - ’ tMEN I was in my feventeeen y«;ars,^ I was both brifk and bonny (j,The lads they lov'd me far and near,but I lov'd nane but Johnny O.He gain'd my heart in twa three days,he fpake fp blyth and kindly O,And 1 made him new grey-breeks,whicdi fitted him molt finely O.He is a handfome fellowhis humour is both frank and free.His locks they are al910ft yellow,like gold they glitter in mine eye,His rofy cheeks, his dimpled chin,his face is fair and ruddy O,And in a day his grey-bfeeks,were neither riv'n nor duddy O.His breeks are thread bare worn, •they’re wider then they us’d to be,They’re tatter’d fare and tornand fare clouted on ilka knee,But4f a live another year,as I have done right mony O,I’ll make a web of grey claith,for to be breeks to Johnny O.To dead him owell is my defire,and it muft all my ftudy be.Bin he mtlft wear the auld pair,a wee, tho* they be duddy O.1*11 put a clout upon a clout,and that will fet the.wind about,And £ will clout my Johnny’s grey-breeksfor a’ the ill he‘s dotie me .yet,There was but ae i'pt)cn into “the houfeand Johnny made a cutty Q-t, .Hi clout my Johnny's grey-breeks,.for a' the- ill he£s done me yet,Johnny and his grey-breeks,Jenny and her petticoat*And angbt the bairn who will,johnny's be the daddy o%When the lad was in his prhnfi,like him there was not many O,He could dolt at any t;me,and who was like my Johnny G.Well do I love his grey-breeks,for a‘ the ill they4ve,.dqne ms. yet,For if he. live another year,I hope hedl wait upon me yet.THE A N S W E R,MY Molly fays I did her ill,Bu? fure 1 never intended it,But if fite thinks I've done amifs,■I'll do my bell to mend it.Who would wrong fo fine a girl.So witty good, and bonny O,There's not a lad, in ali the town,She's loves fo well; her Johnny O,It was on a fummer's evening.TTHDown In a pleafant va!iey O, -I kifs‘d and ciap'd mv bonny lafe, 'The reft I neecfnot tel! you,Betwixt us two we got a lad,And that made me a daddy 0,I will provide for her a babe,And claid her like a lady 0.Becaufe. Hie 'mends my greyTreeks,And clouted them fo neatly ;I’ll c-wde niy lafs iri handfome d.*efs.In which flit’ll look completely^I’ll take my laihe to the Church,Make her an honed woman Q,By our induftry we.4!! make rich,So our bef! days are coming O.Becaufe fire ment my gtey-breeks.And lung of them fo fweetly O;There‘s not a lad in ail this land.She likes fo well her Johnny O,HI take a craft and keep a cow.When we‘u get milk in plenty O,In truth we‘ll through the warld row*And feed on difbcs dainty 0.Beca-ufe fiie ment my grey-bre cks,.rind fung of them fo bonny O,H! make my lafile blefs the day.That e‘er fiie faw her Johnny O,HI make my lafiie blefs the day.That e‘er Ihe faw her Johnny O.Now HI lay by my grey-breeks,Which Molly fo neatly clouted O," ;—rr-r——: '^ow Hi layby my grey-breeds.Which Molly fo neatly, ciouted O,iTh buy a fait of new clothe?,j. And not be long about it, O.: Yet my old worthy grey breeks,1 hill will keep bdide me O.I ril not iorget my’old hate.Whatever • may betide me 0.1 All young men that loves a maid,I beg you don’t deceive her O,i ’Nor never with a woman wed.Who has had a bad behaviour O.i. prudent wife a blefling is.And ornament to her hufband ;A virtuous wife will blefs your life.While jilts are always grudging.THE TEMPEST.CUafe rude Boreas, hluftVmg railer,Lift.’ ye landmen all to me,Mefs plates hear a brother failorfmg the danger? of the feaFrom bounding billow's fir ft in motion,when the diftant whirlwinds rife,To the tempeft: troubled ocean,when the feas contend with Ikies.Hark! the boatfwain hoarfely bawling,by top-fail (beets and hallyards ftand ;Hown top-gallants^ quick, be hav/Iing,' down your ftay-fails, hand boys, handi\o-vv it ti-cfifcns,fit the braces,f’te See top-fail ihcets kf p;o fhvff beys, lufi’. don’t m-ike wry face?, I '> . f” k 1 I 1 i^ uproar top-fail's ivimbly clew.Now all you on down beds 1’porting,hwixt b^uty’s arms0 7fondly lock’dFiefli enjoyment, wanting courtifafe’-s from all but love’s alarms.Around us roars the temped: louder :think wlrat fears our minds enthralHarder yet it blows harder,now again the boatfwain’s call.The topfaii-yard, xpoint to the wind, boys’;fee all clear to ‘reef each courfeLet the fore Iheet go. don’t mind, boys,thro’ the weather fhou’d be world.Fore and aft the fpirir-yard ger,'reef the minen^ fee.all clear;Hand up each preventure brace fet,man the lore-yard ; cheer lads cheer.Now the dreadful thunder’s roaring !peals on peals contending da Or LOn our heads fierce rain foil? pourm?t*y■i■4:ein our eyes blue lightnings flaUi, •On wide water all around us,a1 iabove but one black (l:y 1Different deaths at once furreund us,hark i w hat means you dreadful cry r ’The jbre-ntalt’s gone, cries ev’ry tongue out '*kr the ke twelve feet ’hove deck!A take beneath the d-’direds fprung out ii • ( 7 )ill all hands to dear the wired:.;;k the laniards cut to pieces,lime, my hearts, be ftout and boldkb the well, the leak increafe?,;ur -feet water’s in the hold !ile.o’er the fhip the wild waves beating*for wives and children mourn :.sfrom, hence there's no retreating,1 to them there is no return !the leak is gaining on us,It th chain pumps are choak’d below’n have mercy here upon us 1y he can fave us now.me lee beam is the land, boys,the guns o'er bbard be thrown rse pump come every hand, boys,| i her mizzen maft is gone,tteak we’ve found it cannot pour faft>W'volighten'd her afoot or more j|iup and rig a jury fore-mall,us tigh^ fhe’s tight boys v^ear off fhoreonce more on joys-be thinking,e kind Fortune fav'd our lives;the can, boys, let's be drinkingur fw'eet hearts and our wives.«up, about Ihip drive it:e to lips the brimmer join,Se's the tempeft now ? who feels it ?.e ;^-our danger’s drown’d in wine.{ 3 )THE CONSIDERATE NYMPH.OUNG Colin feeks my heart to move," And.fpeaks and talks fo much of JovejHe’ll hang or dro’yn I fear it.Of pangs and wounds, and pointed darts,* Of Cupid’s bow, and bleeding hearts.I vow I cannot bear ir. I vow, &c.He fays I'm pretty, mighty well.And witty too—that’s better ftill.And fenuble, I fvvear it:"But words we know are nought but wind, -Unlefs he’ll freely tell his mind,I vow I cannot bear it. I vow, &c.The (heplferd dances blythe and gay.And Tweetly on his pipe can play jI own I like to hear it: . ,Butdowncafl looks, and hums and ha’s?So fadly pleads the lover’s caufe,I vow I cannot bear it. I-vow, &c.I wilh fome friendly nymph or fwain.Would bid the balhful boy fpeak plain,I’d wed him, I declare if:Then pluck up courage like my fex.The hone ft youth no more I’ll vex,- v I vow and do declare it. I vow, &c.F I N I S.