THB WITTY AND ENTERTAININGEXPLOITSBEGEORGE BUCHANNAN,WHO WAS COMMONLY CALLED TH«,KING’S FOOL.THE WHOLE IN SIX PARTS COMPLETE.THE WITTY EXPLPITS, 13c.i and of mean parentage, «iade great progrefs in learning.I As for his underflanding andreadj wit, he exceeded all menthen alive, in that age, that ever oropofed quefiipns to him.—He was fervant or teacher to King James VI. as his privyj «ounfeIler, but publicly he adted as nis fool.I _ i. It happened one day, that a young airy nobleman, wentJo/ito/the King’s Garden, to pull a flower, for a yourjg ladyhe fancied. George followed at a diftance, and when the , 'young man found the flower to his plealure, he would notpull it himfelf, but to find it again without further feeldng,Recovered it with his hat, and went went away for hisfwcetheart.—No focner. was he gone, but up goes George,lifts the hat, and pulls the flower, then eafes himfelf on thefpot, and covers it with his hat again, and away he goes  ~In comes the young man, leading his fweetheart to pull thetflower below the hat; but a foon as he lifted the hat, andfeeing what was below, he kicked like a. fool : '•he lady'flies in a.paflion, arid off fhe goes, pever to countenanae himany more. Theyoung man being fully vexed at this affront,done to him by George, fent him a challenge to fight him,appointed a day and place where they were to meet, being ^to fight on horle-back, GeorgC' gets an old lliff liprfe, andfor hirneffing coders him about with blown bladders, with 1a fe\wlittle (mail ,/Aenes in each, without either fword orfpe»r, and away to tlie field he goes, where the duel was ap¬pointed, fo when George faw his enemy coming again ft hiin,'all in glittering armour, armed with fword and fpear, herode up tto his, horfe, (as is faid) being all covered ovef withbladders, the fmalLftonea in them made fuch a terrible noife,'that the gentleman's fine gelding would not Hand the battle,but ran away, and threw his mailer on the ground, which•aufed all the fpeAators to laugh, and fay, the gentleman ■was more fool than Gearge. The gentleman, being fo en-r£ged at this fecond affront, he would fight with George onfoot; but his friends ^erfuaded him that it would be no hu- "nonr to him, to fight and kill the king’s fool, and far lefs t®be killed by the fool: fo they were >dVi-fed both to agree. .But the gentleman would try another exploit with George,for to have it faid he was the eleyerefl naan, to hold him ttuBipin,,-bout publicly the next day thereafter. With allmy heart fays George, apd we will end in *ad about where''we began ; they not knowing Ids meaning in this. Theplate and hour being fet wharethey were to meet next r*er*( * )lug, Ceofge in the night caufed a deep pit to be made, andthe earth of it carried away, afterwards fiiled it up with thedung ot a privy, and covered it over with a green turf, fothat it might not be known by the other ground ; fo accord¬ing to promife., tney both met in the morning, againfl theti*te appointed. Now, George being the oldeft man, andhv them counted the greateftfool, tire young man permitted’him to jump firit, which he according to order performed,aB'i jumping within a foot of the place, where the ground■was falfified, the young p>an feeing this, made hisperform-*nce afterwards with great airs and all his might, fo thathe jumped a loot over Geoi ge, up to his oxters amcng cleandung; whereat the whole multitude of Ipedators cried outwith huz*a and laughter. Now, fays George, 1 told'y®uwe would end in and about, where we began, and that is inelcin dirt.On a time after this, the king and his court were goinginto the country, and they w uld have George to ride be¬fore them in thg fool’s drefs, whereunto he feemed unwil¬ling, yet it was the king’s pleafure, fo George was mount-«d on an old h frle, a pair of old riven boots, with the heelshanging down, a palmei coat, patched over with piftures,all of diver* kinds: George rode laefoie them in this paf-ture, which caufed great Ian ,liter and diverfion, until theycame unto an inn, where they alighted to dine; and in thetime they were at dinner, George went unto the ftablesandwith a kniu cut all the horfes chafts, not fe re, but fo asthey might-bleed. Now as foon as dinner was over, andthey mounted on their horfes again ; George ridiug befor*them »■» ufual, in his palmer coat and boots, they began tomake their game of him, then George turned about fudden-ly, and clapping his hands with loud laughter, they afkedhim what mad* him laugh (o? Laugh, fays George, how*sn 1 but laugh ? when horfes cannot hold their peace ; Omy fovereign, fays George, don’t yon fee how the horleshave rent all their chafts laughing at my old boots ? then e-yery man looking at his horles mouth, they were all in arage again!! George ; the king caufed him to be difmounteddirecftly, and charged him never to 1 t him fee his face again*n Rnglifh ground. Now George knowing that nothing jaould r.concile the kmg at this, tinje, he came away to ]Scotland, and caufed make him a pair of groat boots, and Jput a quantify ol Sc*ttifh eartii in each of them, and awayhe goes for England, to fee the king once more. He hearvjjing the long and his court was to pals through a country vil-iage, George places himfelf up in old window, and lets upfcis ba c arfc to the king and his court, as they pafied by.J— king was greaily amuzecl to Jee f»^h .m unufual honour ^d -ne to him, was curious,to know the performer : fo he er!(~s )led unto him alcing liim to come down, and finding it to%«George, Sir, fays the king, did not I charge you, nrrer t»let me fee vour face again ; true my fovereign, fays George^for which Met you fee my arfe ; ay, hut fays th&king, youwas never to come on Faiglifh ground again, neither 1 dof .ys George, pulling offhis boots before the king, faying• behold, mv fuvereign, it is all Scots earth I fland upon. Theking and his court being fo diverted with-this merry joke,George was admitted again into the king’s favour.After this there arofe a debate, betwixt the kiag and hisi queen, about votes in the pariiarnenti as the king had twovotes, and.the quee# would have one, a*d would need*be a parliamenrer, or no peace without this prefermen*;1 this matter was committed to George by the king, fo iti w«s agreed with the parliartient, that the queen ftiould beI admitted into the parliame t for one day, and accordinglyJ| fhe came,,and was received with all the honours and con-igrttulations, .as were due, and becoming her high itation ;but before any matter of conffquence was-brought to theboard, George, fixed himfelf, hard by the queen’s feat::|| all being filent, he rofe up very quickly j and lifting upil| one of liis legs, and then gave a great fart; vvhiel) fet the(| whole houff a laughing; whereat the queen was greatly| •ffended, crying, go take the rogue and hang him; t«which George anfwered, a line parliamenter indeed, toii| bang a man for a finlefs infirmity, .snd that’s a fart. The| queen being fo enraged at this aflront put upon her firfl' propofal of parliament, went off in a palfion and neverwould countenance them any more. But yet to be n»ven-;ed on George, fhe would never give the king refl till he_iad delivered up George into her hands, that he might b*punifhed at her pleafure ; which the king accordingly com¬manded, to be done, knowing that George would refeuehimfelf by forrse intrigue or other. No fooner was Georg*delivered into her hands-for to be" at her difpofal, buc fli*and her maidens pronounced his doom, which was as fol-—lows: as,he had affronted the queen among fo great an r-quipage. Who ought to be honoured in-cluei, and above allwomen in the nation, .t!»at he fhoul.d be floned to death byhands of the women. Now his time being come that hefliould die, accofding-to appointment he was taken into aKark where a great number of women was waiting uponim with their aprons lull of Hones to fall upon him and pt*thim to dead), according to the queen’s appointment.HIS SPEECH TO HIS EXECUTIONERS.Mere’s a female band " itb. bags of Hones.,1 c mz r, f( 6 )I’m clean of rapine, blood, a.rtd thefts ;Could T convert my farts to rifts ;Since I the firft. for faffing die,.dole by the fide from whence they fly;To commit my crime I think youtl fcarce,, If once yon do 'cork ,up your arfe ; •And now fince women the ftones do carry.Men need not in the world tarry..fudge if fuch women be cbafte complete,With forty ftones between their feet IBut ftnce it’s fo you may come on.The greateft -whore throw the firft. ftone.When he had ended thefe words, tluit the greateft whorefhould throw the firft ftone, every onfl put it to another to•aft the fyft ftone, but knowing thaUthey would attain theeharadterof a tyhore for fo doing they all refused till the dy¬ing hour was paft, and tlren he took a proteftagainft them ;and by fuch means faved his life. »„ After this he was admitted to the queen’s favour and pre-feice, attending the court as formerly.' About this timethe French, king not knowing how ftp pick'a quafrel withGreat Britain, fent a letter to the king defiring it to be readbefore the parliament, and^he writing was as follows : WillI come? Will I come? Will I come? This letter being readover before the king and his courtiers, they all concluded jthat the French,king defigned to invade England ; therefore ithey wrote a letter, on purpofe to fend him again, upbraid- 1ang him, with the breach of peace, and putting him in mind .<•f the laft treaty ; this letter being read over before the kingand his noble?, they all condefcendcd, that it fhould be fentas an liver: but George finding, and lhaking his head, .*;fed oat.Many men, many minds," ' Who knows what he deiigns ?Then they afked George, what he thought the Frcnoh Jking meant by luch a letter? to which he anfwered, I fup- fpofe he wants an Invitation to come over t» digner, andthen go back, in a friendly, manner, hut you ate going to j' charge him with a breach of peace, before he lias gi ven any ,1fignal.of cftence or War, his letter is indeed dark and mifti- ;cal, but «ive him an anfwer accordto his queftion. \Now George being ordered to write the anfwer, it wasAnd ye come. And ye come. And ye come. This being >fent to the French king, he admired it beyond exprellipn,faying, it was an-anfwer mere valiant and daring than he |expedied; fo. the enmity he intended was extinguifhedtAiereby. and turned into love.About this time it happened, that a-malignsr.t party iiSobtland, feat up a great fpokefmaa to the king and pui--iiament, for the feducing of the church *, George hearing ofhis coming, went away aad met him on the bridge, artct*he falutation that he gave hitn, was the cutting off hiu,, head and throwing it over the bi'idge ;.then rah to the ki/igwith all his might, falling down before him, pleading moilearneiUy-for a pardon, for without it he wits a dead man.The king moil curioully alked him what he had done now :■Jo which h* anfwered, he had only thrown the Scots Bi-Ihop’s hat over the bridge which made the king laugh, to hearhim alk pardon for funh a fmall fault, but he had no fooa-•r got the pardon fealed by the king’s hand, than he faid,indeed my fovereign, I threw his hat ever the bridge buthis head was in it. Geordie, Geordie, fays the king, thenwilt never give over till thou be hanged.After this a nobleman in England, agreed With the Jtinjr,liow to put a trick upon George, to try his manlji courage,in fending him to fi certain houle for a bag of money. Obhis way home through St, Jameses Park, they caufed(a ftur-dy iellow to go and let the way upon him, and take the mo¬ney ; he being armed with a fword and pifto), .coming up'ferilkly, and attacked George with-thefe words,'you, Sir,deliver-up what money you have, or you-are a dead man.To winch George anfwered. Sir, i have money indeed, but■it is hot ray owjt, and I am lorry to give it: neverthelels,'Cnce'I am net armed as yoii aret«. exchange blows for it,you Ikall have it; but pray do me tie favour as to fireyourJihUdl through the ilap of my cloak, h at the owners mayec 1 have been in danger of my life before I loft the money ;which he accordingly performed. No fooner had be fired,then George whips out his hanger from below his cloak, andwith;one ftroke, cut off his right h»nd,*wnerem he h*ld tli*fcorch >° that both his fword aiid band fell to the ground :but George lifted his hand and carried it to the king. N®fboner did he come before them, but they alked him, faying,Yfell George, did you mect any body to trouble you by theway ? No, faid he^ but a fellow who was going to take themo'ney from me ; but} made him give hit hand he would irttdo the like again. You did, fays the fellows mailer: Yes,I did, fays George, let the work b-err witr.efs, throwingdown the fellow’s hand on th? table before theta all.Now this lad exploit of George’s caufed many .of theEngliih to hate him, and among the Pell a young noblemanfell a joking of George in faying he would be as famous achampion lor Scotland, a S'Sir William Wallace was. Ay,Ay, fays-George, William Wallace wks abrave man in hi*time. True indeed, fays the other, but when he came to—UM, m l i ■■n ■. M ,natml thr honour I.C * )^cry And do y#u kn*x» the reafon of that fays George.Ko, I don’t* fays lie. Well I’ll tell y«'U, lays Georjje, tiewas’inch a terror to the £n;>!ilhinen wiien he was alive*that a tight of him yet, makes them bihit themfdves.The Englifh took this anfwer as,a great afFroijt, and forth-*with caufod Wallace’s picture to be taken out of that-'place.Tlwre was a young Englitb girl in love with a-Scotfma%,and petitioned him leveral times to marry her, which h»refufed,. and upon revenge thereof, went to a juftiee, aad4vvi*r« a rape againft him, which death by the law. Georgehearing this, went"into the priton, where the young maftwas, and inftrjjdled him howto behave before the^udge.So in the time pf the trial, George came in, widie mejudge was crying to the man, but never a word could heget out of him to anfwer, to tell wnether he Wats guilty arnot. After the judge had given him over to be deaf anddumb, others fell a thouiing in- his ears, but never a \%ordwould he (peak. Then the judge perceiving George, cal-lecfto liim faying. George do,you know whatjs the mat¬ter with this man ? Yes-1 d» very well. What is it ? faysthe judge. Woy fays Georgr, the woman made inch ajioile and crying when he was tavithing her, it has put thopoor man deal, 1 allure you. Is it fo laid the judge. No,-1no, fays the wo man., my Lord judge, you may well believeme, 1 lay as a iam'o, and never fpoke a word all the time.Very well eonfelird fays the judge, and you haveH worn arape againtl him ; go take the whore to Newgate, and ictthe poor man about his butinefs. And ib it ended*P A _R T 11. ,George happened one night ta be in company with »Eithop, and fo they fell to argument about religion, wiirie-in George got me better of him, and the Bithpp himfclE -jfound he was wrong; then one of the company addrefied jhimielf to George, in thefc words. Thou Scot laid he, •ought not to have left tty own country. For what? laysGeorge, becaufe thou haft brought all Tie knowledge in it ;along with tnee. No, ml, fays George, the the; cid' m |Scotland will argue with any Bilhop in England, and ex-1«eed them mighty far in knowledge. The Englith ele-, ytook this a.-> a great affront, and lev-ral noblemen adi. u- iit to be as George had laid. Wagers' were laid thereon,' andthree of the E'—lilh clergy were chofen-and !e u away t«Scotland, to dilpute with the thepherds. acci nip inied withfoverargentlemen wiio were to be as Cvitncis ot w- at t eylieard pais between them. yp.w'Geoi-’.e -k-:-' yjpu.w way^.bounds before i! Cm, made up his acquaintance with a Ot«p-iuad at the bardei-, whofe failure'lay hard by the way lidswhere tilt* clergy men were to pais, and here George-m.aint-ed himfelf in a /hrpherd’s drels, and when he Tawj.h» cler¬gymen coming^ he conveyed his tlock to'thetvay fide, wherefie fell a finghw a Latin long; and fe, to begin t * quarrelone of them diked him in Gi eek, what countryman lie was.;to which he a'nfvvrred'in -tr'Iem^li, if you knew that youwould be as w ife as myfelf. Tii.e rvext.aiked Ifim ip Duich,where was you educated; which he anfwcr J m "v L-ing my fheep betWeea. this ar.d Lochaber, *. ■lyin to explain into Englilh which he a ^ , o;d» L • ■ ,ciergynien, ne unpe in tysinepuem s u . ui tnn»i;«o:.England with airthe h tile imaginable, 1 that .tvii c4at the place from whence fet oilt, three day.; beforethnn, and went every day alkir.g if they >, -r • : : ,1.he might net be iui;v.--.?d. Xow ,upou-.>s.eir ■■■i -..ftthey that were‘c»ne‘rued in-the ina-tM.' < : . ; . t.can:# crowding to know wi.au wu.-; cU>.. *— .o 1 • . h„ ,the tines gentlemen declared wlu: i a . > "clergymen and the Ibcpherd wliotu il ;y { n* a-.der. but the Bifnop made ar.lwer, and e •-that a ihepherdcould anlwer.tliefe qued onr • i~ ! . ■Jive devil, for the Scots minmess iliemlc! -,s e Voit, they are but ir’.-.c.-uit of iuch mauers ; • , v. +■ a ■tefs buys* r''1. hen George thought it ^vav . . n-ojpeeeh in lifted. Well, my lord yfu.p, fay •* a Itb«ni a pared of beurdleis ‘nuts, y . «i * tlongiieard ycurfeiriny lord btfbop, and' ':; . ;j. . ' .},yerc.meafisred'by bearihs, yqu biiho]-; •j-.d v- • ■ ; hj.'have it all, and that will'be cbite avet . ■ .n in... i.i. tureWhat, i’:!ys the b;iiiop,-ar« you a S • .lam a Scot, Welt, toys the biihop. ami a: f i t. - driit.iwnce between a Sot and a Sot. i\< ; • •• .. yGeorge, but the breadth of.the tabuUft veen the hifhop and Gcot0e.) Scin a high paiiion, while tl . whole i; "i;[^plit their jaws wtth-lauglUtr.•4.About this time tl.ei e was an v .. ’k»benefit of niu.ueici', that any puh ii •* coma umi,der, ..if they •« rieited five i.uudred ... \ •. w, -..'.-V.' 10to the murdered perfor.*3 neareft'relatipws, as the jRic^ »fblood, a»d ^he,murderer got a remit. Now Georgeing this to be contrary to Mofes’s law*, was very much"grieved to fee fo many pardons fealed with the king’s h#ndfor murder, almoft one every week ; it being fo ufual forthe king ro fulaferibe them, that he did not read them, norenquire what they werefor which caufe George writes fti-ight to the crown, and fent it to the king to ire fubferibedwhich he a&ually did, and never looking what it was, re- jturned it to George : no fooner htid he received it, but he |goes to {he king, and told him, it was not time for himmow to fit there; whereat the king was greatly amazed,flatted up; then George in a great hafte fits.hiinfelf downin the king’s chair, forthwith declared himself king, faying.Yoa who was king, muftjaea fo61, for 1 am now the wifeftman. Tlie king at this was greatly offended, until Georgefhewed him his feal and fubfeription j but from that dayforth, he knew what he fubferibed.Tire next pardon that came to be fealed by the king, was ‘a gentleman that had killed two men before, and had got jpardons for them by money. This being the third, the ;king feemed filent in looking over the petition. George :Handing by, alkcd the king what he was going to feal now ?To which he anfwered, it is a remit for a man that has kfl-fled three men at fun dry times ; I gave him two remits be¬fore. O fays George he has killed none but one man. Andwho killed the other two, fays the king. You did, faysGeorge; for if you had given him ju/lice when he killed theiifirft, he had killed no more. When the king heard thefewords, hg threw down the pen, and declared, that fuch ajaaft to fave a murderer, (honld be null ever after by him. |• One day after this, George having no money, he goes a-*iway, and vets a pick and fpade, and then falls to digging at.a corner of the king’s palace, which the king perceivingfrom his window, calls what he was wanting there ?- Are yotMgoing to undermine iwy houfe, and make it fall? No my "ioyereign, faid he, but it is verily reported, that there is |plenty of money about this houfe, and where it can be,«fays George, 1 cannot find, for it is not within the boufeta jdo me fervice, then furely it muft be below it. O Georgftjthat is a crave after the new faftiiou what money you.!•rant. I’ll order it to you. Then, my fovereign, I’ll digswo more.Une time after this, George being ie the country, he cam*to an inn, w he relit .alighted to refrefh himfelf and his hoifejthe inn-keepor charged him double price for every thing hecalled tor: George never gimmbled at this, but gave hit*,ell his demands, and away he goes'on ms journey: andSphere he quartered the night folic wine, he wa* uiad *it*rthe fame Rjar.ner if net' worfe. Now George camr to theinn where he refresh' d himfelf the day before ; /fa when healighted, the boy'afked him, Sir, wliat ihall I give'yournorfe ? W'hat you will boy,, fays George. No fjoner hadhe gone into his r»om, but the drstwer aflced him, .What■wifi you have to drink. Sir ? What you wrll, fays.George.The-m after'of the inn eame into his/rroom before fupper,afleedhim. What will you have forfu'pper, Sir? AVhat you 'will. Landlord, fays George. Now, after fupptr beingended and a hearty bowl to put all over, George went tobed, .and got up pretty early in the morning, Called far theboy to make yeady his horfe in all hafte, for he defined tomount him,- and go dire&iy ; fo in a Ihort time went into •"th* ftable where the boy was, calling for his'harfe, andmounted hyn with all the fpeed he could, giving the boy apiece of money, faying, He.re my boy, this is for your ta¬ring care of my horfe ; I have paid for all I called in the'houfe ; and off he goes. Now, about mid- day he alightedagainj at an inn to refrefh hitnfelf and his bode, andthetehe chanted to be in company with his other landlord, wherehe was the night before, and charged him with the doublereckoning: fo George addreffed him/elf to him after^hismafiner, Sir, fays George, I do believe I was iniyour houfeyefternight. O yes. Sir, I mind of you very will ; and wherewasyeu laft night,? Laft night!. fays George, I was in oneof the.finneft inns, and the civileft landlord, ever I had inmy life ; they brought all things I flood in need of untcf ms,without calling for'it, and'when I eame^off this morning,they charged me nothing, a<nd I paid nothing but fixpcnceto the bey for dreffing my horfe. Blood and’wounds'} fays 'the old fellow’, then I’ll go there this night. Ay, faysGeorge, do; and mind this, when they "afk you, what willi you have for yourfelf and horfe ? anfwef nothing but what’oil will, Sir. Now George fmiled within himfelf, to thin i:iow he got the one extortioner to take fimends of the other,>o the forefaid inn-keeper- rode that night until many of the>epple of the inn were gone to bed befcre'Iie cam,e in. ' No -boner had lie alighted from bjs horfe, than- the boy afked^dm, .what fhall I give to yomyhorfc, maftcr ? To which hetSfwered, ybat you yill boy. Tiie boy hearing this, run*iway (leavulg him and hisborfje to ftand at the door,) uplairs to his niafter’s room,' crying mafter, mafter, what youvili come again. 0 the rerg^e^ cries he, where is he?’ll cane him ; I’ll what you will him bye and bye, and toiin he runs with his cant, licks him and kicks him, untile was fcarce able to meunt his herfe, and would givo hir*in encouragement there, , whioh caufed him to vide the -cogth of a whole long colff winter night, after he had gotltiGbtfm.»*.T; r„ i ,r ■ -,l .( 12 )Its a murderer, and las defence'was, that he was ?. cheat anafcomer of his houfe, untii the truth was.found out..About thw time, the French king feut'and demanded ■from the King of England, three men of different qualities,'.the one was to be h mighty ftrong man, the qther a verywife man, and the third si great fool, fo that he might haveoon« in all France-to match them in their Nations. So ao- ’cordingly there were two men chofen, the one a llrono man, ,a_nd the oU er a wife fhan, but George Was to aft as a fool:neverthejefs he was the teacher of the other two. Ayid ontheir way to France, George afked 'the flrong man. What |Will you anfwerfhe French kingif he afks if you be a ftrongmanr l_will fay I am. Then, fays George, he’ll jet aftrongef'man than you,-..who may kill you and affront yourcountry. What fliail I fay then, faid the flrong man? Why, =fays George, tell him’you ?tre ilrong enough untried. Then ,fays George to the wife man, and what will you fay to theking, when he all's you ifyou be a wife man? I will tellhim I am, and anfvver all the queflbns I know.- Very well 1fays .Gtprge, and what if he afk you what you do not know, 1then you will affront /our country, *»nd be l6oked upcir asa greater fool than me! What fhall 1 anfwer then ? faid the f•wife man. Why fays George to him, he rs only a wife manwho can take eare of himfelf; and I fhall come in after you;?;and take you off al together. No fooner were-they’come tothe king's, palace, than the king lent for them to try themilThe flrong man being firfl called for, in be goes, then theIcing aikea him. are you a flrong man, Sir ? To which hefanfwered, ^ O kil|*, I am flrong enough untried.’ Very ,good, laid the king. After him entered the wife man, to.Whom the king put the queflion. Sir, are you a wife man ?“• He is only a wife man that can take care of himfelf.’ Very jood, fays the king.; with that George*pu;hcs np th«door,' and in he goes with loud laughter, pi lies direftly id' the king^s face, whiclk blinded both his eyes^ aad fet th«whole court in amaze. Now, novy, foyg the'king, it is trueenough the wife man fays, for if 1 lyd taken care oFmyfelf,1 needed i/ot been pilTcci.upon by tltejEnglilh fool. O he.,fays George, Fools always flrive to make-fools of otlters,but wife men'make fools of themfelves. The king imagin.cd as much a.=, he was mafia the greateft fool, chargethem forthwith to go home, for he wanted no more of En|land’s flrength, witdom, ncr folly.One night after this, a Highland drover chanced to ha*a drinking bcut with an Englilh captain of a iliip, and 9Ulalb, the EngttlK captain and he catne to b# very hearty Ovepthem uqis, fo thew called in their fhrvants to have a fhare o|»their liquor » the drover’s ierVant locked like a. wild, man,g',ng v. uh. it. breeches, ftockings, or thocs, not Id tnudb9( 13 )* Honnet oft his htfad, with a long fcel’d rung in his half.The captain a Iked how long it was lince he catchedhim ; a-'"‘bout two years iince I hauled him out of the fea with tenet,and afterwards he ran into the mountains, wliere l mtchedhim with a pack of hounds. The captain believed it was fa,;but fays he, I have a fervant tfic beftHwimfner in F.ui'ope :-O but fays the drover, my frrvant wilffwim him to death;1 Tfo, fays the captain, I will lay two hundred guineas'on i t.Then fays the drover, I hold it one for ene, ang^ dakes Itdirectly ; the day being appointed when trial was to be'* .nude. Now the drover when he came to. himfelf thinkingwhat a bargain he had made, did not knftw wirat to do,knowing very \fell his fefvant'could fwim'rone. He hear-, ing of George being in town, wdio always was a good friend>to a Scotfman, and went unto him and told him 'the w.iioledory, and that he wonldbe entirelj broken, and never durd’ return borne to, his own country, for he was fure to lofe.—Now George-caVled the drOver and his fervant alide; and. inflrufted-them how to bring him off with fafety, and gaiatoo ; f» accordingly they met at the place appointed : The. eap'tain’s fervant dripped directly, and threw himfelf into thefoa, taking a turn until , the Highlandman was ready, for-'the drover took feme time to put bis fervant in order ; after'lie was dripped, his mader took a plaid, and rolledhis keb-4 Leek of cheefe, a big loaf, and a bottle of.gin in it, and this" be hound on his fooulders^giving him a diredtion to tell his{. wife and children he was well; and to be fure he returned-with an anfwer againft that day fe’night. So he went intothe fea, he looked back-to his mader, and cries out to 1 in*• for bis claymore., .And what waits be for now, fays lie whowas to fwim along with him ?’ He wants his fword fays his. mader. His fword, fays the fellow, what is be to 0 dwitha fword Why, fays the mader, if he meet a'whale or monl'-trouj bead it is is to defend his life: 1 knovybe will have t»dght his way thro’ the north feas, ere he go to Lgchaber,Then cries the other, Twill fwim noile'with.hipi if he takes■ his fword. Ah but fays his mader, you foal!, or lofe the; wager, take you another fword with you. No, fays the{ fellow, i-never did fwim-with a fvvord, nor any man dfe■ that ever I 1'aw or heard of, I know not but that wild-like..man wilf kill mein the deep water, I would not for tliewhole world venture myfelf with him and a fword, Theeapt in feeing i is fervant afraid to"venture, or if he did,, he• Was furejiever to fee him again alive ; therefore he dedredan agreement with the drover, who at fird feemed unwil-Jih^ but the captain put it in his will: fo the d' over quithim tin-one hundred guineas: This lie came to tlufugh■ sGcorgc’s advice., . ' ;( 14 )PART ItfXxFTEPt this, Gc<ygebeing in Cornwall about fome bu-fincfs, where he chanced to run fhort of money, and not iichowing whattp do, not,being acquainted With none inthat Country, and knowing his landlord to be loyal to thegovernment, and a great favourite to the king his hlafter,. be takes a piebe of brick and brays it into a fmall powder,mixed with VlittSe chalk fo that it might feem in colourlike Arfenick, which is flrong-poifon. Then tying it up inpapers writing o* this dire&ion, The ftrongeft poifoh forthe king,’ and cm the other paper,' ‘ The llov/er poifon for' ’ 'JcT!  t?he queen.’ OuThe goes on purpofe," and leaves the paperslying on the table, where he knew they would be lookingat them : -The landlord perceived the dire&ion, lb in comesGeorge in great hafle, and calls out, ‘ O landlord did .youfee two fmall bundles I have loll, and I know not what £lhall do, for it was my main btllinefs to take, diem to Lon¬don.’ O y6u murdering rogue ! cries the landlord, I willhave you hanged for wh»t you intend. George at this madeoff, and was going to.fly for it, but the landlord called foraffiflance, fo he was apprehended and made prifo>er of''Rate, -and carried to London by a troop of horfe ; when the *people there began to know him and tell whoshe^was, hisguard dipt away /bamdully and left him, fo George thank¬ed them for their good company srud fafe convoy. -There was a law made againft wearing fwords at ballsand affemblies, in tbd reign of King James tlte VI. ffecaufe .]they were inconvenient on thefei occafiors. But Goe to bewitty in the aft, provided himfelf with a very long fcabbard,and got himfelf introduced to a ball where the king and hiscourt were prefeRt: Goe made fevefa] turns through, thecompany, making ffs fcabbard hit againft their ftiins, and- fofnftimes d'iptbt below a lady’s fardihgal: and in 'ihort,. moleded the company fo much that it was taken notive of,and feized as aperfon who had incurred the penalties of theaft. afbrefaid. But George exoufe'd himfelf, telling -them,that the la\vNwas only againd fword, and as he only wore afcabbard, was no ways Bable. At feeing this, the_king andhis court were coRvinced that the law- was imperfeft, andthat George had more wit than thenifelwss.George one day eafing himfelf at. the corner of aj .hedgeswas elpied by an Englilh fquire, who began to mock him,aiking him, why he did not Reekie like the hens? BatGeorge, whofe wit was always ready, told him, •he was a-afraid to keckle, hail he would come and fnatch up the egg.Which rebuff ixatle the ’fquire walk off as mute as &•; <i|torge was ProfefTor of the College of St. Andrew’s andliptoRt .uk day in ffs go..'.11 and>iippci'3, an-l went to hiAa( *5 >travels through Italy, and-feveral other foreign •ountrie*,\*ad after fevtn years, returned with the fame dr&fs he wentfoffin: and entering'the College took pciTeffion of his featthere, but the Frof^ffor in his room quarrelled him for f®j;doing. Says George, it is a very odd thing that a naan can¬not take a waji in his flippers .but another will take -up hi*feat. And fo ftt 'the other P-rpfelTor about his buflriefs.I George was met one day by three bilhops, wHff paid bins(the following compliments. Says the iirfl. Good day fa-| ther Abraham ; fays'the fecond. Good* day father Ilaac ;rfays the third, Gqod father Jacob* To whom 'he replied, .‘ 1 am neither father Abraham, father Ifaac,.nor father Ja-,ecb ; but I am u Saul the fon ofXilh, fent out to feek myfather’s afles, and lo ll’ I have found three of them.’ Which \anfwer convinced the bifhops that they had miftaken theirA poor Scotchman dined one day at a public houfs in Lon-|don, upon eggs, and not having money to_ pay,'got credittill he would return, the man being lucky in trade, acquiredvift riches, and after fomc years returned, and calling at tliehoufe where he was owi*g his dinner .of -eggs, aiked tfc*-landlord what he had toj»ay for his dinner of eggs he hadfrom him fuch a time p but the landlord feeing him no'*rich, gave him a bill of fomc hnudj ed pounds, telling himas his reafon tor fo extravagant a charge, That thefe eggs■Kid fhey been hatchcd, would have been chickene, andfhefefdyiug more^ggs, would have been more chickens ; and fo .)u multiplying the eggs and.their product, till fuch a tin:*i.s their value Ihould amount to the fpm he charged. Thenan refuflng to comply with this demand, was1 charged be-ore a judge ; but, ta fhe mean time, made his affair known *:o Gearge Buchan^a* his countryman, who promiied to ap- *tear in the hour of eaufe ; which he accordingly did all in &weat, w’ith a great balket o'f boiled pesfe ; which appear¬ance furprifed the judge, wlio afkcd him what he meant by. hefe boiled peafe'r fays George I am going to fow them :Vhen will they grow ? fays the judge—They will grow. Sdicn Jbdden eggs grow chickens. Which anfwer convincedMbe judge of the extravagance of the Enjgliihman’s demand,nd the Scotfman was aflbilzed upon paying two-peuce half-: icnny.There was a bell at Dalkeith, which the Popifh-ejergysack ufe of, to extort confefiion from the ignorant people, -i the following manner: They .told tlie peribn whom theyjfpetted guilty, it would ring at the touch of a guilty per-pn, but if not guilty, it would not; by thefe means theye»*rally frightened the ignorant into ccikcliion; for'ir thee}l. would ring, the perfout was then to be condemrred t*catli. But they stai.aged the matter fo, that the was• ever put to the trid, till Centre did as follows : He '.vastaken up for fay.irg, ‘That the Pope was f'alliahle himfelf;'and could not pardon the fins of.others.’ George ewned lie:fluid fo, but would refer to the bell whether he was guilty!or not. ThyJriefls tilt;ugh unwilling were obliged to com-uly.—George touched the bell, repeating as before, ^ ThePop-e is fa^liable and-cantiot pardoo fin,’ moreover added,!4 The Pope anff popifh clergy are impoftors,’ and thereupon!touched the K;ll, referring to it for the truth ; but the bellnot ringing,the prt*fls were difgraced as inipsflors, and hewas hon air ably in. quitted and the bell was laid afide. , :George defu ed a member of tiff College of St. Andrew’s. Ito lend hitma book ; the othor told him, he could ndt'poffl-:bly ipare it out of his chamber, but if he plea fed he mightcome and reifd there all the day long. Some time after, the/gentleman fent to George to borrow his, bellows ; but he*lent him word,, he could rrot^oflibly fpare them out of bis|kitchen,‘but he might come there and blow all the day if life*would.* ieholhr at the grammar fchool of St. Andrews cominginto theroom where-his mafter had'lard dowu'a bafket off"fine cherries for his own eating; ths waggifli boy takes themSup, and cries aloud, I publifh the banus between thcfelcherries and my mouth, if any know any juft caufe or impe«|dimeot, why tiiefe ftiould not be joined together, let thcmldeclare it. The tnnfter being inj'the next room, overlies > djall teat was faid, and comisg i;Ho the fchdcl, he ordered^the boy who had t^iten his cherrie* to be taken up,-o: s*he called it, hors’d .on another boys back, but before 1>«!proceeded, to the ufual diicipline, he erics cut aloud as thidelinquent had.done, 1 publiih the banns between this boyVbreeches.and my taws, if any one know vj*y juft caufe or-imJpediment, Why thet'e two fra uld not be joined together, let"them declare it. Gesrge palling by in the mean time, olverheard this proclamation, I forbid the banns cried h«J’ Ydby ,i’o ! fays the fehoc-lmafter; Becaul'e the parties artnot agi eedneplied’he,. Which anfw'er fio plcafe-dthc mafleMthat the boy was' let down without any punifhment.A-young gentleman that wanted to be witty on the fcripJtures, eating feme clicefe full of mites one night at a tajvet n : Aow,- laid he, 1 have done as much as Samf.'n, for Ihave flain my theufands and ten thoufands. Yes, repliedGeorge who happened to be in his company, and with th«fame weapon too. tne jay bone of an a.s, which anfwerjlet the vvh- I: er inpan jr a laughing to fee the young gentle--m'rin beat with his own Weapon.Geoi< e Iking in company where three bilhops were prtf4feat at dinner, they kuewiug George to be a great ijpfaClaft.C' 17 0* t omicf1 witiial, they put upon him to fay th# guicc,j^hicb he jficf as follows 'if Here are three brethren of Uie coat,__ V/ho for tliy blefling thahk thee nnt, ^I - Curfe them LoM, and Clefs'them not, Ainen.■ Fall on. gentleman'-the'caufc is food.'* This grace-njafdefife bifhons look iike. Focis' to one another, vcfi^lc,George • '."laughed heartily at the confufimi tney were in.A candle makes1 haying had foriie candles floldn •was id- _ -fling it in.compsiny where Gesrge was prefent. who budeTim■be of good Cheer, for in a^ftiort time, fays he, 1 am afTyiedjtbey will Conte to light. , - - ’• George being fent to Paris'about home ,bufu;efs, went -yfTrom thence to Verfailies, To fee the Freacii •king’s ecurt,rar;^ being known there to feveral of the courtiers, who' hadIfbeen at the EngHlh court, one of ihefa.too.k cccafton to telltheFrcnclrking^that George, was one of the •w it lie ft men. iflj England, upon which the f rench kir,g.deftrcd to fee- him,\v!rcii he^did ; hot George, it leenft was out-of humour. Orat Iraft feemingly ib, Ipoke but very little to flic purpofe.To that theJFrchch king told f!ie nobleman'that commendedtint lor lucli a wit,, that* he .looked upon him as a very auil, fellow but the.acbleman *»flurcd the Jiiag, w hat ever he. « •thought of’hirn, Geoyge was a Very witty aitd ingeniousman: whereupon the king was rtffotveal to: make a furt.Krtrial of him, and to<-k him men a great galJeKy where tltereWas abundance of line picture^,, and, aiwongstho re 11 fhewrd -him the. picture of Cliitft on the erofs, aod-,alk.rd J’.ir*,..if he knew how that was? but George rnaiiehianeifveryignorant^ and ani'wered, -No.' Why fays f ie king, 1 v ill.tv,, you il you do iv t knov. This is the-pKiu-e ol oa: •.* vinur dn the ernfs, and that on the right hy/id is the Pope’s,and thatcn - he Ult i'S itiy <#rn. xV-h^reupon Georgeplied, 1 humbly thank your Majefly for foe imbimation, -Kpr. though 1 have- oftenTieiird that our Saviour was cruci-£»(! between, two fliicfcs, yet I novw knew how they v ei>bclore.,A fliarper who had acquired vaffurichOs b* cheating, toldBeoyge, that if fuch a thing- as a g^dd'n’mnefwas to beppchakd,. would^freely. give ten tiioufand peuv-ds for one.Sir, laid George, it would certainly be iL,‘ rfl mmidyyi-ui ever laid out in your life. Wlfy fp, laid u;e'inarpcr ?Becaufe aplwerqd he,;you-Avil) loir if fn Id's tl:;in .a Week.Gne afked George, why men alvyayt madefuit to me wa-nittycand Wi men never to the men ?' Wt.y-lays g- becaulc'“'e wdmen • # always ready for tiiq man, but ih^rocii are>t. ai’-rv . , fdy for tlte * omen,Ceoig^Vefit into themunt one day, when thev.we,-,. ^elt-^ tjf them alked Geoi, e. ' ' ’ ’ • ’ ■-C * )hat full of gold ? George -readily iceeptef, hut btrnt thiebottom out of hi? hat-at* they kne.t.if wouldr end fob thatbout they fooled George*; however, George to be even withthem bought a fine large hat, and caufed a plate of copper!to be put betwixt the hat and the lining, and returned next ‘day, they jeflingly aiked him if he would have another 1-attfill! of gold? he faid he v&ould : They give it red hot and'George now laughed at them in his turn, telling them,Ithat this new hat was a good-one and flood fire better thanthe pl'd one,’and fo carried it of honeftly, and being after-:wards.profecuted for to return it, he e-xcufed him,'telling!the judge, that he took nothing but what was given him,and therefore he was honourable atquitted, and the. otherheartily laughed at......liftry was toaflednut when it came to Gedrg<'drink; he diverted it’fonis time by telling a flory to theper fan Who fat next him': tht chief magiflrata not feyng|his toall go roundp carie'd out what flicks the jniniilry at?’At no.ffiing, av;es George, and To drank off his glafs. .1George being one day along with the king and his nob lasa hunting, and being-but very forrily mounted, when he^wa» fpurring up his horie, he oMerving the horfe to have a,trick of falling down on his knees, George immediately'thought how hethculd make ufe of that very thing tsciiverCihit MfejeflV t therefore pretended that kis horfe would feChares, anfl knowing fome hare feat, rode that way to fliowPthe colnpany the truth of whsrt he affirmed, bat when hehad fotipdtl e fare by giving his h* te fcfpur, fie inimtdi-!ately clapped down : this he repeated fcveral^times, till ha. pm the whcle company t» belief that whath'e had faid —true ; and one oi the noblemen being charmed with the _’torniance of George’s hot i*, wan'd have George changewith him, Geor e feemed at firfl unwilling'to part with biborfe ; but at Isfl Was prevailed upon to part with'him fothe nobleman’s horfe abd^a hundred guineas to boot. Buafterwards ridino tl rough «(river prettyvdeep,, the nobleman’s fpurrir.g hi* new borfep(te clapped down on his belljwhich Gvorge 'feeing, called out to the company to rettuftvitk the, dogs, for tiiMnoblemanY hwrfe had certainlyhare: which fet the wliolc i«mf*ny a,laughing. The poor,noble;'an was" obliged to leave his horfe let in the-waterjjand waddle through on foot, ail wet t®' the (boulder.if S'eotfwnn being reduced te poverty, made his cou: t taGeorge te put him in a way : George told him he? would,providiag he VouId do as he direfted him.' There was |nold ttiifer: 'an ufurer, and monay changer hard by j GeorgetlfcfisesUhe poor feilow lo prtUud un ;tra,tid to the UiUei*nd when fee came to'the ta’ohe where the heaps of renaer]*», tottmifi Hhr'fiand among the gold, bul.to lift none «nirun off. This the poor fellow did, and >vas chafed -1/t', emiferand his fervants, who I'an after him' into theflre*t, cal-j! ling It.op the thief. The poor fellow \v»s (h,pped as Georgehad deiired bin', fn let th*:*! catch, him, G« )r«f appfa -in-in^he mol», and went al#:ig 'with the poor fellow, who wascarried.before > }udpe, where he was fearched, and nothingbeing found upon him, he was aequitted< and the mifer lin¬ed in a large fum for %pcufing him. •fterward* George de-firinghim to go to the fame place, and thruft in both hjshands, and lift uf»..as imteh as he could, and run off. Thishe did, but the mifer told bin, he was not fueh a fool as.folld.w him, for he knew he only dtfijjned to play theio) ta have him fined agsin. Bn; by this m*ans the poorfellow was enrichpd, aiid *fterwards lived very hopeftly.-/George being at dinner one day, when, the broth was ex-iCding hot, iiirnt his mouth, and at the fame, time, let¬ting go a. loud fart. It is well fqr you, fays George, thatyou m*de ?our elcape, for I fhould have burnt you alive ha*you flaidiPART IV.YOUNG curate, with more pertnefs than wit or learn¬ing, being afked in company, how ke came to take into hishead to enter into the miniitry of "the church ? Bocaiife, laidhe, the Lord h*d need of me. That may be, replied GSorge,who wyas prefent, for I have often heard that the Lord hadonce need of an afs.,! After this, George beiiig fent with the Bi ir**! AmbafTa-dor into Italy, by the way of Paris, and as thej? were view-ijfg the beautiful ftatiites ‘and l^rge build'rtigs of sthaf fpa-eious city, tbe king and manydf liis nobles in company ;ns they were walling through the king’s garden, amongthemages-of the Ihints, they came to the linage of the Virgin,Mary, who flood in a melancholy pi£lure with the babe in1«r arms : one of the noblemen fays to the Britiih Ambaffa-ibn, don’t you think, that fife looks as if (he 'were angry ? Ois, fa/s George, fhe’s angry when die fees Englilhmen and.K|hchmen in •friendifiip. and unity one with another. ‘'No,1 iol, fays the-Frf.iu-lvking,'fh«.kjveir nothing better than the.■ 'ecOuciliatiori of enemies ; peace and Unity is her delight.[Then George gets in below the Itatue, and. looks up: Oays Gsor^c, 1 know wkat is the matter now, for-lomebodyms driven a nail in her arfc, I fee :li« head of it Itfeking <uit,‘ p would vex any living, he’s' a pi^ce of wood. At tuts thei Ungwas greatly eifraged at G^crge for laying fo, fon'eahfog her-a piece of woo'd; and nothing- would fatisfy shett lorge would fall down and worlhip the^Vir( 2C ) ' 'gin Mary, tn3 crave ratrey of her for the blaf'htEanuj re¬proaches v.herewith he had reproached her. Then Georg#,cries -out, 0 may it pi cafe your Majefty to oqjit at tins time._T dare not loolc her in the face, fhe frowns on rae with I'uahan anjtry countenance : this dotiful commandTOf yoursrauft ,, be debvrd until I retyrn from Italy, and then 1 (hall lululyour demand m paying her all dutiful i efpedts, and wcunto her according to what Are is. So here the AmbaiTadorftoed bound to G-orge,-that h*. would perform' this piece of 1worfhid atAiis return, according to the king’s pleafure.Now during their ftay in Italy, they chanced tc be in a no¬bleman’s home, where they kept but few fer'vants, becaufc ofafpiritthatdid Imintthe'houfa for fhe Ipaee of two hundred iyear* before that time, fo that no fervant could work any ^kind of labour in of about the houfe for it, etcept «ooks, fer\vhat Uiey vulgarly trilled a browaie, it did all itfelf, and -would fuller no fellow labourer to-work along'with it.——.Oh the next morning' George got uf pretty ferly,- and cal- yled for water t« w^lhliimfelf, then direiSly comes the brow¬nie with a bafon of water in o*e hand, ami a clean cloth in.the other. George perceiving him have fiich a pale ghoflly icountenance, not t» be an eartlily cfeature, faid. Of what .ynation are you; to which it anfwered in Galic, ©r.Earfc, A.countryman of yonrs, 'Sir. The Amhaflador fmiltd, ■and ijoked George, telling him it was,* devil, and how could itbe a countryman of his ? O, fays George, I’ll fliew ytm thecontrary of that, for the devil dare not (by in our country.George having waflied himfelf, itcarae to take away the ba¬fon of water, then fays George, And how ’long is it fineeyou left your tiwn country ? About two hundred and fifty.years ago, fays if. Then certainly, fays he, thou art a de¬vil, and not an earthly creature. To-which it anfwered, I*m what I am, and Chriftian too. . Then. I am what 1 am,•to conjure you, fays George,—he_taking a handle! of v 4'er,and throwing it upon the old wrinkled face of if, repeatingthe form of tire'words of baptifm in Earfe : faying. If thou■be a Chriftian, thou art. old enough to be baptized. Nofopner had he done'this, but it went elf weeping and drying, 'O! let never a rogue put truft in his own countryman'{tfterme. Nnvvbfays Gebrge, I told you the devil dare not it ay:in my country, nor yet-Jopk a Scdtfman in. the fate in liisjownV What! fays tire Italian Lord, do you imagine thattlris is the devil’s own country ? It appears'fo, fays George, jTr he is the plcleft reGdenter in it I know; but, my Lord,'"laid he, and if it pleafe your grace, i think the •clergyipenfire v'iry feantiin this country, when you have-kept the devilfo Jong for a'chaplain. * The Nobleman to this gave no an--;liver, ti t o'vpreucd his forrow to be v^Ty'.great forj-tbe Idi■ef Jiis'^TOKtpie.-' .... _ ' • -( 2* )ftc ’or havin* done his bpfin<ft in Italy,ikrv returned h'-me ard, am! mi t-’r,eir way,! the ,1 mhaffador•be'rsrn to queftiop G< orpe hqw He ttioagir.i to efeapc Pa i*wi' v>bt eonjmi'ring "idolatry. . No, no, la vs George. I ije-■>Ter did wo; (hip any image, nor never &alj, hut I. fhailjbakectbe-m worth ip the worlt’ttiat- is.in my gut-. No fooner weraSTiev arrived in Pa; Ts, - but George l*a»es the krtibaflador,ami goes di:telly to tltt Virgin ?•1 iamped m over thegrading to the.U iy ground, (a# the* termed it) wheratm'iheft* d. where few durft go but piiviis gnd friars: and therejJre ioofed his breeches, and made fuoh.a groaning eating him-Sfelf, that he was heard at a diftanaeby the prietls.and friai ihallo were walking near by.; and they perceiving this heinous-ab'-mmation^-ran upon him-like a pack of bounds, aiid.carjs Jr ted him before the cardinals and father.confetlors, where lisas allowed to fpeak'for himfelf, which he'did as. follows: .May it pleafe yeurmoft excellent worlhips to hear Tnyrcahns before you pronounce my fentence to be put in exe¬cution agai nft me. It was my fortune to be pa ding throughthis’eity- a few mojrths -ago with the Britith Araba/Iador onou o • v to Italy f andene day being walking in tire King’sarden in prefence of-tke King and 'many of hi? -Noble»,who can bear, witnefsto th* truth of the fawe,; I being'ig-pf’norant-of your traditions and rites of .religion, foeliflrly^P* .offendtd, reproaching the Virgin Mary to her face ; and^ /er fnree fce hay plagued me with boundnefs in my bellyat I have voidedhemght but clean hath: io now on my.‘‘•return, I went and implored her to opea my fundament,“ and iliehas donefo; I being overjoyed with tlie m lacubu*“ healing,-in getting.a paffage in her prefence, left it as atA‘memorial of the miracle in that place.” When hearingfu, tliey alj with »ue coufeut, lifted, up their hands andlelTcd the Virgin Mary,- for the wonderful miratle (he had. -aone, and or-derfd George to go about his hufinefs, and dr*ckre unto ail wliat was done unto him bj^ the hjdy Virgin,'fbr the con-fir mac ion of their religion. So all the devoted .Kcmans came to view his dung, and worlhip over it iij pre¬puce of many people; and alio caufed a holy day to.be ob¬served tlirough all liis d*minipns, for the miraculous cure. „hNo\v,. George being a long, time abfeiit ft»« liritain, heBought, fit-to g© and vHit.tlie king add Iris cojKt in dilguile.-iff, meetinK \vith an ©Id man, driving.two old hortes ju^d-Cd with coats'to fell, George here rntidc a bargain with thcrold an for-the loan of his cloathes, his horics, and coal-whip, amfevery'thing to complete lum as a real driver ; foaway he goes in T.is drefs,-.until he came before the king'spalace, where he began cry with an audible voice- buyfoals, buy coals; better buy than borrow. -Now, the king -isctng ih company with his .newoh.i riab'd who was a found-( '22 ) -linn fo that niHje knew bis origins!, and lead been faftercd .and ccV ■■■itd *ut of tharitr by the king’s father, yet he y&i !'1,me a proud as h'.eifer, and’as.pfntl© In his own conceit ••* *; * S , hinnVlf. Jf«w, the kiiuf kriowrtf George's voice,thoirwii .* • h i:i a coirim»fi> dj*fs^ defired the chaplain to•a4k u*»:ii trait why lie called f* loud ra.»ing ftich a ter- "ribie none.* ^ he chaplain ypened ‘ ♦ window, and with'• reat-nins calleil «*Mt antn him,'Ybu,*Sirj tvh* do yt u cry•'ior.^ Why, laid (S» rye, [ pry for people to e».rfte apd-buy.. any coals, and give me tTr-uey lor t!ic«*v; but what do you«ry for: \*. Sir! lays tjit young priefi, l eyy for you to 'hold your •cace. 'Tlien, fay* George, come I • then and ’’*ry for ni*, andgo-feJI ty c > Is, I will hold my peace. .Self y our coals ! lays’ tno. prieft, do you know unto whomyou i’peak?, Yes, l do know, fays George, but you do not.What a*d youi fays the prieft, I am a mortal, and fo.areyou, fays Georges. What is your father's name, finee youwill ijot tell me your own?.fays the prieft, You i»,uif go afkthat at my mylnother, fays George, for.[ am not fufficient-when (he got me to know him : What,' fays tire prieft, doyou not know your pwn father! I.. kndw my mother, and*ny mother did k now niy father, fays George, and that is jfulficient, and mare tiian you can lay perhaps. The prieft'thinking he .was coming too nSar, thought to put him offwith a Scriptural queftion, by afking him, If he knew who Jwas jytelchizedek’s father ? Indeed, mafter prieft, 'lays ■Qeor^e,, Meichizedek’s defeent was not counted, neither isyour s, then who can declare your generation ? The pt ieft at .this anfwer wo’yld Hand the argument no ganger,, but doled 4the window in great liafte, while the king, and all who knew ithe prieft to be a foundling, were like tofplit their fideslaughing; fo George went off with his coals, and the prieft jbecame more humble than he was formerly, for he thought :that every, body knew what he was when the coalman knewfo well.One night after this, an -Englifh Squire,.who prdfefted t»be better verfed in poetry than George; laid a wager with a-jKrthef gentleman, five guineas, again ft one that George’ ;•quid nor metre the firft words he would fay to liim in the £morning, wKen iietrly awakened out of his. lleep; fo the ,geptleman went the niglit before and told George the ftory, .and/baci Him be on his guard, faf in the morning they would i•e^taiuly come, and that right early.' At midnigTit if you |•will fays George, I’ll order my fervant to let you fn. ' So. • |the Epglifb fquire fat.up ail night conferring with his friends '|_ wliethtr lie would put a high verfe to him, or moan Innple ^' words-thmkino that Gforge Would be fitting up all night 'j•meditating on an anfwer: lo all agreed that mean and frm-» Jpic words'he wo«Td,pot be thinking on, and have no anfw*'f>js«vide"d. Then ziVay tfacy came “in' t|ie marnihgwith fcT»al gentlemen in company to hear the divenum ;George’s Servant opened the door, according t6 his-maftePWorders. The fquire, entered the room firfi,- and a\Tak^n»dG;oi-e emt of iv.<fleep, then faid, - '- Rile up you madman and put on your clothes. '• To wldch George anfwcr*d ■ • /O thou haft lofi thy wad many for I’m none of thofei -The Englifti fquire confeTed tie was fairly beaten andwould ma * With hirq uotnore. Then another gentlemanwould hold live guineas, thaihe fliould give him a word or-J.nr, that he iV.uld not metre at the fint anfwer, and to an-fwer it direct! v as Icon as he'had donefpea/if ing; but G;orgeOrdered him firft to tabl-e his money and then xto proceed,which he did in alTha'fte, and faid as follows : 'My belly rumbl’d and th.mi I farted. ' -Gsorge gripping to the money, **fwered‘' A fool and his money is foon parted.Then they all cried cut he was fairly beat,-and whatGeargi had laid (vas really true ; but never would Jay anyImare wages concerning poetry.After this G orge got a letter from a- Bifhop telling him „that.he was coming to vifit .Irim, and take diifner with himin his lodgings ; George lent an anl wer to him 'tlTacl e a ualdwait upon his lardlliip dn the day appointed ; but well didGeorge knaw it was not for any love he had •nto taiih’ ti/at.he coming to ice him, but to fpy lairlies.- 'ti.a *K • lie'thoughphe ihould give him dfoiuethiug to talk au nu. SoGeoif * fenjt his lervant t< a boj kulier’s Iboa to buy a do¬zen #i iisall pataphleia, *o«ut a halfpenny a pieae, luch a#4 A Groat’s VVorth of Wit tor a penny.’ ‘ The hiftory of •Mie Kin" and the Gobler,’ andTu -’n pieces'ahthefe. Taking ;alhhis f/wn books away,' and patting the pamphlets in theirplace,-which hepieicntedto the bilfiop, vvlrea he alked forthe fight of bis library... 'VVbat! fays the bilhop, have yoano more books*but‘u.e;'e ! No iaoie, fays Georae, but roybible, juft no more. O fays tiic Bifhop, I wonder how you/c%ri either fpeak plain at rite a'perfect lentenccy when yauhave ho pther books c1 an their. O fays Geprje, do yauthink that I am a tie gyrtmu, to borrow other mer.'a ferw *■510ns to beaitify my worka !;K»f no, not 1; all that I writeor de% I Bieditaie aut of n y orain. This cheek concerningborrowing put the bdhop'i a coki fw-a , yethe concealedhis paliion. Then.Gaorgf tr lie# toln* iw v ant if dinner was( ~ )is4on tlie boil, .get out|!v n *! pr'ck; \*Hai GtDrgkjUtHt 1ifcto tbc foom-trKcfe liis Icrvatst '»as, atid fet the biiwro jt Ithe oocWide of the,fireva^d (at down at t’-e other hinrleU, 1Y liihr his fervault nwde a grcut bowl / all oi'millt brofe, and i|fet them “down betw^rn the b'ifito'p oud-Gwirge; tnen George f* ; fired rite'bid-tip-, to a.ik a bled for what they'were to re- Iceire. The biftiop did not ■know what lie meant hy -a blef- Ifing, knrt beirtg ul'ual for the Eflgiifii to ‘do fo, alked at IGeorge what it was, but George took up a greet ram horn JIpocn, ana fidpped it into the biflbop’s hand, -faying. There. 1it is my I.or<1. V/hat 1 fays the ollhop, rail you that • ftLie fling r we e *.ll d-at'a'fpoon. O my lord, faya Geerge,Jt Iis the.bed blefiing you. can aJk, if it do not emne empty. fWell, fays the b.8u>p, and hdw do you,calk this fcaided Imeat i Why,- ttys George, we call it Scots broie. O, faid 1tl-.e bilhop, 1 cam)’it cat ft. O, faid hev .the thing we cair-,hot-eat we fup my Jord, /mee you arc in a Scotfman’sliou.'b,you niuft partake of a Scotfraati’s victuals. Then, Ciid thebiftiop, I always thought the Scot* bad lived v.eii tijl now, Iwould not be a Scotfmp.n for the world, O, fays George, if;a Scotfman lives but-sowears, and get but io years meat,dhc;can*ot be badly ufiV What, "hot badly off, and want*‘year’s victuals ! laid the biflsop, utron my word oY honour, ifI wanted one day’s victuals, I’d be lure io'die the nejtt. Ofays George^ we drink water whe* we cafcnof do better, au<|that' puts us in remetnbraHceyjf wealth, for a dj£h of content^-'meat is good •cheer. . ^-iThen laid the biftiop. I’ll drink water too, if it be good'--for the memory.- Ay, do, laid George,' and you will ic- Ij-nicdiber me When you do fo. Am.w alter darner the hifliapttook, his l«ave of George, and defirc J’ixim ntitt day to oomeaud dine with him,PART V.N.a'KXT day, Gepvge, according to profnife, went to the I1’biC.up s ]od; i.g, but go foorier did * bifliop fee G«orp*than he faluted him with thefr w •• « :You;- fervant, mirfter wile man,- ' k j And yet you have no books;H w can y. u irave knowledge,- vThat ao may inftructs ? •GaorgtT anfw,ere.dYour fervant, mafter biftiop,"Yodr falutation.'* go;kl_ ■You knowledge is in your library,While others are in their iood.( 2J )!L • Uovr, after a fumpfiuSus disncr, th« bifliop took Georgemto his library, fhovr'mg him a great quantity of books,whieh George priifed very much, and among the reft was anI old Hebrew Bible,- which George taking np, alked at theI bilhop what book it wa* ? the biihop looking at it very lin-i cerely, f«id he could not tell. Why then do you keep ai back that you do not know the name of it ? It may be thei book of black art. No, I don’t think that, faid the biihop,ij but can you tell wljat it is ? Yes fays George, it is the Bible,: the heft book for a bifiiop I know it he had eyes to fen thei infide of it: So he defired George ,t» read a piece ef it, but1 'when he did, he could not underftand it,"he therefore defir-1 ed him to explain, which fentence he did as follow*, Ifaiahjj ix. 16. “' For the leaders of the people eaufed then* to err.I and they that are led of them are deftroyed." To whichIj Gccrge added, this is the blind leading the blind. So ta>I Ting his leave of the biihop, he parted with him, foying thefeI words: _ _ -Good night, hail mafter biihop.Of books you have gryat ftore,• Yet'cannot read the.half of them,Then what ufe are they for!i ^ Many of the clergymen in England defired. greatly to beI jn company with George, bec^ufe of his comical-and wittyI expreflions: fo George happened one night to be called in-| to a company where there were two bilhops, as alfo a prieft .I who wanted to be licenfed by them. One of the hilhap*1 *lked George; Why the people of Scotlaivd did not l.'ve bi-| Jiopn? Bccaufe, fays George, they are like old beggars ad-I vanced to be rulers over barrow-men, flill miflrudting tb««*■ 311 things they know jmt themfelves, ordering them to «ar-I ry ftones to the builders, which they will not receive, andI which they.tliciTTlc! ves had never power to mo\e; the Scolsbaving knowledge of this, hate to fee the b/ftiop& havegreat lordlhips for their ignorance, ajid the poor labnurer*have liule < r nothing for their toil. One of the bilhopilooking at George with an angry countenance, anfweredfaying. Thou Scot mull be made a biihop yourlelf, and w*bilhops made priefts, and that will ufve well .for. your turn.No, no, faid George, that will not do, for if I pe mad* abiihop, I’ll have no broken bilhops to ferve as priefts underjne, for they are fuel. Dad- mailers, they will become tlsewarft of all fervants. At this the two biftrops left the roomin a great paffion, leaviyg George and the young prieft on-jjjjy by themielves Now, now, fays Geor. •?, this prove*jjjthe bi^iops to be but hirelings, aad not uuc ftiejd eids,ffl(pointing to the young prieft) you fee the* tmve fled ioru iseii owb Ikfcty, and left you a lamb bekuc ui* m*|uth of'( 26 )me a ibjr, and •. tio knows but I worry ycu. £ua, funtec, roafter. fticep, tVys George, aiid if you have eye#, guidethefe two blind fll^herds dowa flairs, and, over ditches, ’but 1 am an aid you will «U'tumble ih * ditch together.This railed fuch an indignation in the biffiops breafls that'they defired no more of George’s company and'eondcrfa- ■tion.One time after this, George bdng in the cduntfy, about jtwenty miles diflant from Londoa, and cn liis way home¬ward there came up after hint a fine gilded coach which iGcofge was informed belonged to the bifliop of Canterbury, !and was going to London .far his'lordflup. George .addrel-^ .fea himfelf to the coachman, for to have a pafl’age with thim in the^coach to London; fo he bargained with the ieoaehmnu for two dollars, to Carry him to the Belt Innvj 1?on London Bridge; the one he gave him in h*nd, as he eu- ,tered the coath,:-and the other.he was to give him as loon j tas ever he wor.ld fibe him out of the coach door : fo away | 'the caachn)an drives for London in all hafte, in whiclrtlme ■ tGeorge wrote the following' Mocto:Here, fits the bilhop of Canterbury,■Who at the fchoets difdldn’d to tarry,Far better Ikill’d in games than preaching.And yet he lives by others teaching.Blind leaders of the blind, indeed,’Tis blind and lame who chariots need;Six brutes with eyes tnis brute doth carry,I mean the bdhop of Canterbury.My feet being lars*, 1 gave a dollar,To be drove in Bate like you a fcholar ; . !For which myfelt 1 do ablwr,-^Shame caue’fi me make another door., i 1Thefe lines being battered upon the in fide of the coach, kand when he came v.-khin a mile of London, took a knife, tand cut a great hole in the back fide of the.coiach, where he }■eame out, and to make his promife good to the coachman, tthat he #as to give the other dollar as John as ever he lawhim come out of the coach door. The poor coachman drove Jicn tilf he eame to the forefaid inn, where he alighted and jwopened the doOr to let- liis paflenger out, but leeing the I:♦coach empty, and a gieat hide in the back fi.de of it, he f::cried eut he believed he had the devil la his coach, and he »had taken away the back fide of it with tina.- Tbe'peop|e iof the inn cams all flocking about to fee what \v»is done ;£*and then feeing'the lines on the inlide" of the coach,, vdiielvi|:the bilhbpcame and-read hinifelf, they all concluded it to Ibe done by George, but could make, nothing of it, for the V■ ( 27 )bifliop fa’id, To ^uiTuc Kls;^ wculd onlr aikc it warfir, andno better. ;George w** invited one day by a great t*'Wrfr to. come• nd fee a fine budding, which be had loteli'built oE'finefree ftoaes and marble.'.He defired Gecrje to guefs whatit was built with: George aofwers. Do feu think that I donot know wliat it is built with fNoj you do not, 0iy* thelawyer. Yes ; I do. Dys George, it cannot Hand long,for malice and hatred is the mortar oiwt, and the 0orv«* arethe beads of foeiilb people, poUibed over with the.'tongu :of an afs—O ! Sir, don’t you remember.that an-afi wasmade an advocate, and fpoke againft Balaam? Tire i a wye rin this would give no aafwer, but took good night cfGeorge.. -Tlnce merchant pedlars, (a* they profeffed to Be)" wme\fith a pack of goods, to put a trick o«,a widow womaswho kept an yjn'.ori the highway fide. .After they had drunkverv hearty, they defired tjie woman today up tire pack be-,curdy, and charged her flriaiy, before wttneffes to deliverit to none of them, unlefs, they came all together tor it a-gain. And about three weeks thereafter^ two of them re¬turned, and defired the woman to give them tire pack, tel¬ling her, that tire other man was gone to fiieh a Dir wl£ianother pack, where, they were all tv ineet, and tney werefellow travellei# conjunct in tpade, and bow they all had aright to the pack alike: whereupon the po^r tlmple^vornan,not dreading any further harm, gave them,the pack. So ina few days thereafter,, the *tiier man comes and demands thepeck. The hOnctl woman told him plaitrly, that the othertwo men had been there before And got it away, ’then Hebegan to demon ferate to the we man what great danger fhcwas in, and forthwith raifed a procefs again ft her by law,whiclfcoft the poor woman a viylt ot money, to deiend, asthe plea centinued niore than two full years; and a greatcourt being one day to fit upon the protefs to decide it,which would undoubtedly have been done uiikvvur of thelurfucr, the proof being fo dear, and the woman hot deny¬ing what the bargain" was when /be got the pack to keep,l ire poor woman being hr great ftraitr, hf'r pqi ie ncing turn-id empty, and Ircr attorney told her plainly, as her moneyis gene, he could no longer de./end her. The wojtia-iice more ptucked up her heart, aiul .went to Louden toipioy a new. attorney tp /peak for her { but hrr fvunt ot|pId Ihe could get none to undertake it. George b^us-itwiicuic, where .he heard the poor widow makingis pirn-atilomplaint to one. of the attorneys, who. gave •her no. C.Cfft*‘ t or fatisftidtron, fpf when flic told hioi fi'i had nomoiyy:—1 t give iivdefence^rf it, the ar. ■■■r»*.y went a^.jjpynf iL. i IlInT.I i S ISi IBl.l*( )which made George laugh Tei * heartily, while the poor wi*vdow fat weeping like otre diftrafted. Poor woman, fays'Grerpe, T’ u' need not thiiiTc that man will fpeajc a word foryou,'or el fe, enlefs you had brought him a purfe ofgold to loofe his tongue ; hut ns I have got a Icheme of the*matter, you mav -go home and have patience till the timecome, ««d then my life for yours, poor woman, that I willfend you an attorney who will do yc ur biifinefs for nothing.He gere the poor wsman more cou a ,e than anf Ihe hadfpoke with in I.ondcn; for every one told her that all thlattorneys in the world cobid not free her. So according!]at the day appointed, George dreffrd himfelf like an attor¬ney, with his gown, and every thing aa he had been fo.The court being fenced, and the proofs read over, th|expencet and valde.af the puck having amounted to abovjfeven hundred pounds, was ordered to be p«t in a decrcejagainft the poor widow, which every one was bemoaninjbut could give her no relief. Now George kept himfe,filent, hearing them all with great patience, uatil the veinnick of time, he thought proper to addrefs himfelf to th'judges as follows: u My Lords Judges, and Gentlementhe honeurable court and coriipanyj I have come from L<don gratis, out of pure pity, to fpeak a ward or two in. vour ef this poor woman, \v!x> hath fpent all her meansdefence of a talfe aceufatian raifed againft-her; and niwhen her money is gone, her fpeakers are dumb, and Ifnone to plead tfie caufe of this poor widow. Now when fatence is upon the brink of lacing pronounced agaieft herearnefily defire this court to'molify and drop the experaltogether ; it is enough when the poor woman hath dieto pay ; for you all know the poor woman watf no wayricbed by it, whe* the other two men got it away/’ Tthe purfuer’s attorney made aUfwer -as Tollowa : “ Siwould have "thought, you who have cone from Lon<and profefTeth to bb a do&or of law', fliould knoW b<things; know you not, that he who fains the pita,the cxp-nces as well as the fum, or be whatdt will.”it nmft,- and fhall be too laid the judges. Then faid Ge<That is all I want : whi^h fet the wfide ciurt a laugithtftking he was a focl and became an adverlary to thewoman. Give over your-fport, gentlemen, lays.Gc<|I have not done yet.“■.My Lords ludges, ycu’ll hear me in this; if the;tvernan made a! bargain with this-merchaift, and oiLei^ how as with him, for to keep that pack Ihfely, and dit to none of them uut.l the-y were all three pirefent,?.let thavman who ia here at this time gc and led; the|..' two, and they fhall have tbeit j a k, jo ih ■ in.- diejjcncugii, but Ihe. will keep by her firft ‘bargain^-( a<) )I -r*fer tn vow jtidpes and p^utlcmen, if this ptior waaian benet i 4 r ri^ht.” Thi' made tb« iudf.es look one to ano- %1 tbrr; *nd tlie whole e- urt with one voios, declared th* wo-1 i*an w.o in the right, aod ordered jbe purl'uer to. go and| frok hi* two companion*. No, no, fays George, the poorij wt wan muft firft ho» her expences, or lurety ior it. ThenI the judges caufed the purfnor to be arrefted at tlie-b*r, untiijl the woman' got fatisfadtioa for all her trouble and expenses.|1 So Georwe returned to London unknown but for an adro-I cate, whofe fame wa* fpread oyer'all England; whicli cau-I fed rjauy who bad lavr (uits, to fearch through London for| him, but could not fend him who had gained the widow’s1 law plea.i Ceorge being on#day in the country, and coining thro’1a village, there came a great malt iff dog,' and gripped hin*by the leg until the blood followed his long teeth, George,with one ftroke of his cane, camo over his eyes until he felldown and died *n the fpot; ’Tis well for'thee, fays George,: tha' 1 killed thee before thou waft brought to julbce, for'tk.** had certainly been hanged for what, thou halt done,| and thy matter fevcrcly fined for keeping thee. The ownerI of the dog hearing George fay fo, we» t off without fpeaking>jil a word to George, for fear it had been fo.| A country gentleman caaie one ti»e and enquired at' |- George, \vhat he thought wa* the reafon he loft every lawI fuit or plea tic let his face to, though never fo juft a claim,fl the law went {till againlt him ? George afkcd Ifrm whom he,1 employedHe tcld him that he .was one of ^he belt and.1 ablelt attorney’s in England. Yes, fays.George,-1 believe-I he may be lb, but when you go to law again, if-you have afl mind t# win it, when you give your ewn attorney one guinea,| give your adverfary’s two ; for thofe attornies are much af-fl ter the nature of an afs, they wout fpcuk right if they do-fl not throw a mulitude of angels before them, (meaning piecesfl of Englifh meney called angels by name.) The gentleman1 returned in-a few weeks therealter, and heartily thanked/B'iGcorge fqy his good advice^- for he -was not afraid now, butH be eould gai* any plea he took in l aud, whither it was jullH or nst.a] '1'wo drunken fellow:s one day( fell a beating one another■ in the ftreets of London,.‘.which caufed a great crowd ofI-people throng together, to if 9 what it was ; a taylor ■beingat work up in a high garret, about three of four -ft01 ies high,and he hearing a noiic in the iireet, looked over the win-■ clow, but eould not well fee them, he began to ftreteh ! 1-JH fell, making a long neek, until he fell down out of the vrin-n dow, and alighted on an did nian, who was walking on tire-ft fheet. The; poor taylor was nn re afraid than hurt, butthuft i*ld roan on whear he ftll, died dirfebtiy. His ion can fedc 30 ) 1l',v 'aylor to b« apprehended, and tried for* the raurder ofhis fat!j*r; The iury could not bring it i» as » wilj’ul rmif-dcr,.;neither coald-they altogether aeqiut tl.e-taylcr ; the ju- 1ry gave it os t to the judges, aw'd the judges to-'the-fc'mg.The king afced George’s advice in this hard matter. Why,fays Georg*,'I’i!'-give yet ny opinion in ahainute i youvsuft caoie the' taylor’ftand on lie ftreet, in' the placetyheve tl:c old gentleman vas,- when he was killed By the'tay’«r, and then let the; old gentleman’s Inn, the taylor’s.adverfery go up to tire window from whence the taylor fell, "itnd jump «ownrand kill-the taylor, as he did his father;for 1 can make no movc of it: You fee it was a great mercy'for the taylor he had the old geiulcm-yi belowTuup, or elfehe liad bd*a killed on the ipot, and that it was the old gen*tlefcut’s l«t ar mTsfcrtane^to die there. ‘ The taylm-’s adver-f»ry hearing this fentence paTed, he would not venture toj«»*p over thy wipdow, and fo the taylor got cle^r off. :lPA R T VI.CjeORGE being one night in o«mpahy with fome English lnoblemen, in prefence of the king, they began to demon* !•’flrats fiu h a fine as place as England was, both for beauti¬ful buiidip.gs and fruitful fields. JJne gentleman laid heknew place in England, though ttiey ftiould crop the graftrveo with the ground at eight, and lay down a crown oh [before an hundred'•wmitdcs, and agamfl to-morrow youwould not know where to find it. This may feem very, 1ffrange to fome, fays George, but it is no i»y fiery to me ! Eknowing there weuld be enough of them who law the crown f])iecc laid down, ready enough to come and take it up be¬fore to-morrow. But fays George, I know a place in ti ewell of Scotland, where, if you tether a herfe at night, adgainli the next morning you will not.fee him. ^ What a poXS 1w ill take him away, fays the EugJiUnhan. (5nly fuch pe»a' 1pie, fays. George, as will ttike away your crown piece. O! *■fays the Englifh noblcmaa, you know what I meanr > *. Then, fays George, you talk mu«h c-ftowns you have in iEngland. I know three towns ,irv poor Scotland, foV pro-'] ertics you have, none Inch. Pray, fays the noblemarijwhat are thele properties? VTky, fays George I kno* cue'town* town where there are an hundred bone bridges in it jjartether town where there are fifty draw bridges in it ; anoJfiler town,- where, 'though a man commits murder,'treafonl■ ■0*v;cs never Ip mucfpjiion.ey. if he rans-to that.to\vnr gets.;'.r bdow a irair, no haw nor juft ice can harm him. T'he noi--t.'Ieman t ilcr.-d imjnet’.iat.ejy to.llake an hundred pounds tljatt; j i o was no fuch town in Europe, befides in Scotland. Theyfdefined George to'tell but the names of the lb ttHyps, JiBSi.tliey would find thct. out and k*ow wlietker lie was a liat#or not; lb he t«14 their liames, and two men were fent toScodatnl too. The firfutvas Daddingfton, near Edinburgh; -when they eanae'there, a’.Hl al-ted dor tire bone bridges, thepeople flawed theta flcps almot between every door, .ofthejkuils of Iheep-beads, which tlfey ufed as llepping Hones.rfhe lefcond was a little country village, between Stirling•and-Perth, railed Auchtertiruer, where .there is a- largeitrand, and which runs through the :t '..idle oi the town, andalmolLat every door there is a itoek or Hone laid e>t » theitrand, whereupon they > v:i to the>ppefite neighboars ;and when a flood came, t-ry could lift their wooden bridges '[in cal'e'thev iliouid be taken away ; and tkeie they called;heir draw'bridges.. The third was a village near Crcnibur-_ >n, which they pallid through froiti the one end to the o-,her, but tliere was-not a hair in it all; fo they returned toEngland, aad taH what kind ofbotfc and draw biidges they[yrere, and how tqere was'not a flair in all that place, there¬fore no man could run in below it.biow George being old, and highly advanced iu year/,ia-ding Ins natural itrength and Hate of health daily dcoay-[ng, he petitioned King James to let him return to Soot- i-and, to vifit his friends and lands of his nativity ; whichwillingly granted, (not thinking that his defign was ne-r to return ;) for George bad a great deflre to rdign hisd and breath in thatpart of the world, where he receive*iiein, and that his body and bonea migiit be laid among hisiivctuork, which. Was counted’a great dionour in lortuerfSo acaordingly George came to the Parilh of Bucbanna*,In die wefl ofbcotland, where he viflted ail hjs triciids *«dfclations before his deatji, during which the king lent levc-lil nieflages for hi» to return in all nafle he could but uepfolutdy refufed, telling him, that he would never lee hmawain, which grieved the king very much to hear mm ex-fcls himfelf in that manner. Alter thas the king lenc-haaIletter threatening him very fliarply, H he did imgappear|,Lo«don, in the fpacc often days, ne Ihould bring nun to-.;indon whether he vrsuld or not. Unto which, as au an-er, George fent him a famous Istter bf admonition, betb.icnl the government ot his kingdofn, and the w*H beinghis foul j which cauled the king weep very bitt.»;iy, w.iitt f'read it over,' with th« follow Lag verle:My honour’d lidge, and fovercign King, »Of your boafling great 1 dread nothing ;On your feud and favour I’H umrcely venture;E’er that day, ri\ bewhere few kings cutey.