THELAIRD OFCOOL’S GHOST.BEINGA. Copy offereral Conferences and Meetings thatpaffed betwixt theReverend Mr. OGILVIE,Late-Minifter of the Gospel at Innerwick, in EastLothian, and thejHOST of Mr MAXWELL,Late Laird of Cool. ' .U it was found in Mr Ogilrie's Closet after hiaDeath, very foon after thefe conferences.Written -with his own hand.GLASGOW;PubKlhed by J. Luxnsdea & §0lT»COPY OF CONFERENCES, &c."TT'PON the thirtl of February 17??., at fevo’clock in the evening, after I had pari■with Thurftofl, and coming up the burial ro:one came up riding after me : upon hearing troife of the horfc’s feet I took it to be Phut llbut looking back, and feeing the horfc of a ncolour, l called. Who’s there ? the anfiver vthe Laird of Cool, be not afraid Lookkihim with the Utile light the mocn afforded, 11him to be Collector^Caftlelaw, who had ato put a trick upon me, and immediately I Urwith all my force with my cane, thinking 1 woleave a mark upon him that would make himmember his prefumption } but, ahhouguI aimed as well as ever I did in my life, yttcane finding no refifitanse, but fiym'g out ofhand to the diftance of fixty fe t, and obferit by its white head, I clifmounted and toeup,*but had fome difficulty in mounting agjnarlly by reafon of a certain fort of tremblthroughout my whole joints, <ometuing a llangerhaditslhare in mv confutiom, forthoug1 >.u&ghed:when my ftafffley/ out of my hand, cjng up with him again, (who halted all toeI wa-. feeking my ItatT,) l alked irm once rwho he was ? he aniwered, The Laird of C3I enquired, Firft, if he was the Laird of Coo’.Secondly, What brought him hither ? and.Thirdly, What was his bufinefs with me ? heanfwereJ, The reafon that l want you is, that Ihnow you are dispofcd to do fer me what noneof ycur brethren in Nithsdalc fo much as at¬tempt, though it ferves never logood a purpofe.I told him, I would never refufeto do any thingto ferve a good purpofe, if I thought I wasobliged to do it as my duty. He anfwered, Since1 had undertaken what few in Nithfdale would,for he had tiled fevera.l perfons on that fubject,who were more oblig^dto him than I was to anyprrson living. Upon this I drew my bridlereins, and aibed in furprife, what I had under¬taken ? he anfwered, That on Sabbath daft, lheard you condemn Mr- Paton, and the otherminifters of Dumfries, for diffauding Mr. Men-zies from keeping his appointment with me * ;and if you had been in their place, would havepurfuaded the lad to do as I dt fired, ard thatyou would have gone with him yourfelf, if hahad been afraid ; and if you had been in Mr.Paton’s place, you would have delivered mycomm'inons yourfelf, as they tended to do feve-ral perfons juftice. I asked him, Pray, Cool)who informed you that I talked at that rate ? to’which he anfwered, You muft know that weare acquainted with many things that the livingknow nothing about; thefe things you did fay,and much more to that purpofe, and dcltver my* See Note bottom cf the oth page."i i4>, <Gcmmifilans to my loving "Fife. Upon this I faid,^tis a pity Cool, that you who know lo rainythings, .fliould not knew the difference be.ween sau abfokite and conditional promise; I did, in-deed, at the time you mention, b ame M-. Paton,for I thought him jurt’y btameab e, in hindering tthe lad to meet with you, and if I had been in ihis place, I would have acted quite the reverfe ;but l did never fay. that il you would come to !lInnerwick and employ me, that I would go adi.the way to Dumfries on fuch an errand, that :swhat never fo much entered into my thoughts. !.He anfwered. What were your thoughts I don’tpretend to know, but I can depend on n-iy in-infformation thefe were your words : but I f e youarc in £bme disorder, I will wait upon you whenyou have more prefence of mindBy this time we were at James D -tkfin’s in-clclure, below the church-yard ; arid when l wasrecollecting in my mind, if ever 1 had Fpoktnthele words he alleged, he. broke off from me |,through the church-yard, with greater violencethan any roan on horfeback is capable of, withjfuch a fingiog and buzzing ndife, as put me ingreater diforder than i was in all the t me Iwas with him. I came to my houle, and myWife obferved more than ordinary palenefs in mycountenance, and alteJged, that fotiKthipg ailedme. I called far a dram, and told her I wa* alittle uneafy. After I found myfelf a lit le re-frefhed, l went to my defee to meditate on thissnoa: aftonifhing adventure.■ Upon ths jth of March $722, being at Har£":ead, baptizing the ftiepherd'j child, I came offbout fun fettiag, and near Wm White's marchttie Laird of Cool came up «ith me as formerly,nJ after his first falutatton, bade me be notfraid I told him, I was not in the leaft afraid,1 the name of GOD and Chrift my Saviour,bat he would do me the leaft harm; for t knewbat he in whom 1 trufted, w s ftrenger than allbey put <ogether ; and if any of them fhouldttempt to do, even to the horfc that l ride up-n, as,you have done, to Dr Menzie'* man, £■ave free accefs to compiain to my Lord and4after to the lalh of whofe refeutment you areiipble now as before :Cool. You need not multiply words on that,ieaJ, for you are iafe with me, and fafer, ifSafer can be, >han I was alive.Og'l Well then, Cool, let me have a peace¬able and eafy converfuion with you for the timet * What I know concerning the matter is this. The r«rranCIf Dr. Mcnsie, phyCcian at Dumfries, told my Matter an*ll^any others, that the Laird of Cool, lately dead, appeared toIran, rode him down, and killed his horfe—That h« appointediSiim to meet him fome-time after, at fuch a place, which hetiromifcd to do: Bft Mr 1’aton, then minifter ef Dumfricr,toirilid him to break that promife. Mr Ogileie, the trvintfter>t Inncrwick, near Dunbar, on hearing this, blamed Mr.if'aton much, faying, Had he been there, he would nor onlylive adeifed him to keep the promife, bnt have gone with him,Dunbar May 4th, iySj- James Hamilton.Arminias Mag. foe 158,5.ELL_€we rid« together, and give rue feme informs-tion concerning the affairs of the other world,for no man inclines tolofehis time in converfingwith the dead, without hearing or learning fome-tbing ufeiul.Cool. WeU, Sir, I will fatisfy you as far as Ithink proper and convenient. Let me knowwhat information you want.Ogil. May I then ask you, if you be in a ftateof happinefs or not ?Coo). There are a great many things I can an-fvver, that the living are ignorant of; there area gre-at many things that, notwithftanding theadditional knowledge I have acquired ficce mydeath, I cannot anfwer ; and there are a greatmany queftions you may ftart, of which the l&ftis one, that I will not answer.Ogii. Ikea I know how to manage Our con-■verfation : whatever I enquire of you, I see yeuean eafily fliift me; fo that l might profit moreby converting with rhyfsif.Cool. You may try.Ogii. Well, then, what fert of a body isthat you appear in ; and what fc;-t of a horfe isthat you ride upon, which appears io full of me¬tal ?Cool. You may depend upon it, i: is -not thefame body that l was witnefs to your marriagein, nor in which I died, for that is in the graverotting ; but is such a bo Ay as 1'erves me in amoment, for I car. fly as fleet with it as my foul7.feti. do witbout it: fo that 1 can go to Dumfriesin (it return again, before you can ride re'ice thetingrh of your horfe ; nay, if I had a mind to1 ;o to London, or Jerufakm, dr to the moon, ifrow pteafe, I can perform all thefe journies equla-y foon, for it cods rr.e nothing but a theugbtir wifli : for this body i» a? fleet as your thought,or in the moment of time you can turn ycurnoughts on Rome, I can go there in perion ;»nd as for my horfe, he is much like myfelf, foric is Andrew Johnfton rry tenant, who diedforty-eight hours before me.Ogil So it feems when Andrew Johnfton in¬clines to ride, you mofl ferve him in the quali-wy of a horfe, as he does yen now.> Cool. You are mistaken.Ogii I thought tliat all diftinctions betweenfniflreffes and maids, lairdg and tenants, hadseen done away at death ?I Cool. True it is, but yoo do not take up the!! natter.1 Ogil This is one of the queftions you wontlanswcr ?f Cool You are mifhfeen, for that questierr f;:an anfwer, and after you may understand it.Ogil. Wril then, Cool, have you nes’CT ye!;appeared before God, nor received any fentenc'?ifiom him as a Judge?Cool, Never yet.Ogil. I know you was a fchoiar, Coo1, amirlig generally believed there is a private judgmentbetides the gerieral at the great day : the fortifier'aaunediately after death.—Upon this he inter¬rupted me, arguing.Cool. No fuch thing, no fitch thing ! No tri¬al, no trial fill the great day ! The heaven whichgood men enjoy after death, ccnfifts only in theiierenity of their minds, and the fatisfaction ofa good confcience; and the certain hopes theyibave of eternal joy, when that day (hall come.The punifhment or hell of the wicked, imme.<diately aher death, confifts in an awakened con- ,feience, and the terrors of facing the greatjudge! and the feufibie apprehenfioas of eter-ral torments enfutng ! And this bear* ftill a duijproportion to the evils they did when living.Mo indeed the hate ol fame good folks differ butlittle in happinefs from what they enjoyed in theworld, favi only that they are free from the jbody, and the fins an ! forrows that attended it.On the other hand, there are fome who may belaid rather not to have been good, than that theyarc wicked ; while living, their date is not easi¬ly dilfinguiflied from that of the former ; acdunder that dais comes a great herd of fouls ; a ,ivaf!: number of ignorant people, who have not; :uch minded the affa rs of eternity, but at the .fame time have lived in much indolence, igno¬rance, and innocence.Ogil. I thought that their rejecting the termsof falvation offered, was fufficient ground forGod, to punilh them with eternal difp'.cafure j9111 and a; to their 'grcrance, that could ne'-’cr ex¬cuse them, fince ;ht y live in a place of the worldwhere the true knowledge of thefe things mightii have been eafily attained-Cool They never properly rejected the termsof fa’.vetion •, they never, ftriil'y fpeaking, re¬jected Chr/ft , poor souls, they hsd as great atliking both to him and heaven, a» their grofsimaginations were capald6 * Impartial reafoumuff make many allowances, as the fhipidity ofi their parents, want of education, diftance fromI people of good fenfe and knowledge, and theuninterrupted application they were obliged t»give to their secular affairs for their daily brend,l| the impious treachery of their paflors, who pur-! suaded them, that if they were of such a partyi sll was well; and many other confiderations,i1 which Gcd, who is pure and perfect reafon it-I felf, will not overlock! thefe are not fo much;i under the lead of divine cHfpleafure as. they arr;II out of his grace and favour; aud you knsw it i#I one thing to be difeoui\:ged, and quite another[I thing to beperfecute<l with all the pawer and rage.i| of an incensed earthly king. I afthre you, men'sII faces are not more various and different in thfc;I world, than their circumttarces are after dea’h-Ogil. I am loath to believe all that you havefaid at thi* time, Cool, (but l will not disputethosp matters with you) becanfc some things youhave advanced feem to contradict the Scriptureswhich I Ihail always look upon a« the infallibletruth of God. For I find, in the parable ofioDives and Lazarus that the one was iimneutateiyafter death carried up by the angels into Abra¬ham’s bofom, and the other immediately thurftdown to hell.Cool. Excufe me, Sir, that does net contra¬dict one word that I have fa d, but you (eemnot to underhand the parable, whofe only end itto illullrate the truth, that a man may be veryhappy and flourifhing in this world, and wretch¬ed in the next, and that a man may be mifera-b!e in this world, and happy and glorious in thenext.Ogil, Be it fo, Cool, I (hall yield that pointto you, and pafs to another, which has affordedme much Speculation Since our laft encounter ;•and that is, How you came to know that I talk¬ed after this manner that I did concerning Mr.Eaton, on the firft Sabbath of February lad.Was you prefent with ins, but invilible ? Heanfwered very haughtily. No Sr, l was notprefent my felt, i anlwered, 1 would net haveyou angry. Cool, I propound this qudlion formy own fatifaction, but it you do not thinkproper to anfwer, let it pals. After he hadpaufed, with his eyes on the ground, for threeor four minutes el time at moll, with fonts hiltsand feeming cheerfulnefs, says,Cool. Weil Si-, i will satisfy you in thatpoint, You mull know there are lent from hea¬ven angels to guard and comfort, and to do o-ther good fervices to goed people, and even theItIpHts cf good men departed.are employed inthat errand.Ogil. And do you not think that every manihas a goM angel ?Cool. Mo, but a great many particular menibave ; there are few houfes of diftinction efpe-. pally, but what have at lead one attendingit hem ; and from what you have already heardlof fpirits, it is no difficult matter to underftandhow they may be frrviceab’e to each other par-•ticiilar member, though at different places at agreat diftar.'-e. Many are the good offices whichthe good angeb do to them that fear God,ithough many times they are not. fe: fible of it;land 1 know affuredly, that one powerful angel,or even an active clever foul departed, may oe.fufficient for fome villages; but for your greatfeities, fuch as London, Edinburgh, or the tike,I there is one great angel, that has the fuper.nlen-idance of the whole; and there are infer ter angels,i or fouls departed, to whvfe pwh ular eare faetta mau of fuch a particul-ir or bufinefx,is cjtnmittcd. Now, Sir, the /.mcaosn of oa-tan does ape the kingdom of Chriit as muchin matters of politics, as can be, veil know¬ing that the court of wisdom is form, abovd,fo that from thence ate lent cur mifsknuries inthe fame order But hecauls the kingdom ofSatan is much better replenilhed than the other,in dead of one devil, there are in many inflaucestwo or three commffi'oued to attend a particu¬lar family of influence and diflinction.Ogil. I read that there are ten theufrad'12times ten thoufand of angels that wait npcGo«!, and fing his praife and do his will, andcannot underftand how the good angels caninferior in ntunber to the evil.Cool. Did not I fay, that whatever the number be, the fpiriti departed are. employed in th<|fame bufioefs ; fo rhat as to the number of original deities, whereof Satan Is chief, I canno:determine, but you need not doubt but thenare more fouls departed in that place which inlofe fenfe you call hell, by almoft an infinitythan what are gone to that place, which inlike fenfe you call hsaven, which like wife anemploy'd in the fame purpofe ; and I can aflunyou that there is a great difference between angels, both good and bad. as there is among men,!with respect to their fenle, knowledge, cunning,clevernefs, and action ; nay, which is more,thr departed fouls on both fj.Jes, outdo feverab,from their very fir ft departure, of the originalangels. This you will perhaps think a paradox,but it is true.Dgih I do not doubt it, but what is that toxny queftion, about which ! a n fo’icitous ?Cool. Take a little patience, Sir ; from whatI have (aid you might have ur.derftood me, ifiyou had your thoughts about you ; But I flbaltlexplain myself to you. Both the good and bad!angels have^ftated tirriiv of rendezvous, and the:principal angels, who have the charge either of:towns, cities, or kingdoms, not to mention particuhr perfons, villages^ and families, and alli3' • tyi that ii trausacte^ in thefe feveral parts of the1 country, are there made open ; and at their re-ii counter on each fide, every thing is told, as inj your milns, kilns, and fraithies, wi:h this difie-i rence, that many things’ falfe, are talked at thei living re-encounters, hat nothing but whaf is' exact truth, is faid or t©id atriorg the dead,only I muft oblefve to you that, as i am credU' bly informed, fcveral of the inferior bad angels,| and fouls of wicked men departed, have toidmany things that they have done, and thenM V'hen a more iritellcgeht fpirit is fent cut on en-i quiry, and the report of the former (eem doubt,■i ful, he brings in a ccnirary report, and makesT it appear truth, the former fares very ill ; never-:f the'efs their regard to truth prevents it *, forI' while they obferve the truth, they do theirill hufinefs and keep their flat ion, for God is truth.Ogil So ranch truth being among the goodis angels, I am apt to think that l.-.s and falfehoodliij will be as much in vogue among the bad.CooL A grofs miflake, and it is not alone theIII millake which the living foiks fall undei with» refpect to the other world, for the case plainlyj( is this, an ill man will notftick at a hilfchood topromote his defign ; as little will an evil fouldfpatted, flop at any thing that can make him-feU fuccefsful : but in addmitting report he nuifbtell the truth, or woe be to him But hefiJestheir moothly, quarterly, or yearly meetings,or whatever they be, departed fouls acquaintedmay tak6 a trip to fee one another, yearly,\14weekly, daily, cr oftener if they pleafe. Tim:then 1 anfwei* your queftion that you was foKmch concerned about; for my information wasfrom no kfs than three perlons, viz. Aikman,who attends ihurfton’s family; James Corbet,who waits upon Mr. Patou ; for at that timehe was then looking after Mrs .Sarah Paton,who was at your houfe , and an original emis-fary appointed to wait upon yours.At this I was much furprifed, and after alittle thinking, 1 afked him, And is there really.Cool, an etnilT-iry from hell, in wbatevar fenfeyou take it, that attends my family ?Cool. You may depend upon it.Ogil. And what do you think is his bufinefs ?Cool. To divert you from your duty, andcaufe you to do as many ill things as he can ;for much depends on having the minifte^oatheir fide.Upon this X was ffruck with a fort of tetror,which l cannot account For In the mean timehe faid feveral things l did nor underhand. Butafter coni ng to my former prefence of mind,f.id,Ogil. But, Cool, tell me in earned:, if therebe a devil that attends my family, though invi-fxale ?Cool. Juft as furc as you arc breathing, butbe not much dejected upon this information, forX tell you likewife, that there is a good angelwho attends you, who is ftronger than titsother.; Ogil. Are you fure of that, Cool.1 Cool. Yes, there is one riding on your rightrand, who might as w«ll have been cifcwhere,or I meant you no harm.' Ogil. And how long has he been with me ?i Cool. Only lince we palled Brand’s-lee, buttow he is gone.Ogil. We are juft upon E’enfcleugh, and Ilefire to part with you, though pertnps l havegained more by converlation than I could h..vei>therwife done in a twelvemonth •, i choofe ra¬il'.t to fee you another time, when you are ateifure ; and l wilh it were at at great a diftancerom Inne*tvick as you can.i Cool Ec it lb, Sir; but I hope you will beis obliging to me, next re-encounter, as l havejUeen to you this.Ogil, I promife you I will, as far as is conllf-tent with my duly to my Lord aad Matter ChriftPHcfus ; and fmee you^have obliged me f® muchilby information, l will anf-ver ad the qw -Itionsiiyou propole, as far as confilli with my know¬ledge ■, but i beiijve you want no informationfrom me.,! Cool. I c.tme not here to be inftructed by you,itbut 1 war.t your help of another kind.Upon the 5th of April 5722, as I was re-Jturning from Old Hamftocks. Cool came upt with me on horfeback, at the foot of the ruin-:!ou> inclofure, before we came to Dod 1 toldi/im h";* isil converfdtion hid proved fq accepf;b!c' to me, shat I was wetl ple»fed to fee hiagain ; that there wa; a number cf things thatwat ted to itdornl rriyfelf furtaer ef, if he woulbe fo good as fatijfy me.Cool Lad- time we met, I re^ufed you ncthing you afked ; and now I expect that yofhasi rshils me nothing that I fliali afk.Ogil Nothing, Sir, that is in my power, <Jthat l can do with fafety to my reputation an#character. What then are your demands ? jCool. A-'l that I defire of you is, that as yetpromifed that on a Sabbath day you would geto ray wife, who row poflefles all my efF ctSand tell her the foliowing particulars; and telher in my name to rectify thefe matters FuftThat I was owing juftly to ‘Vovoft Crrfby 50!!v Scots, ai d three, years in:ereft, but or hearingof his death, aiy good brother, the L-ird oC—I, and I, forged a difeharge, narrated th«bond, the fum, and other particulats, with thishonourable cl a ufe, “ Aad at the time it hacfallen by, and could not be found.** With ar•cb igat on on »the Prcvcft's part to deliver upthis Bond as loon as he could hu upon it.this difeharge was dated three raonihs oeferethe Provofl’s death- And when his fon anJfuccdpr, /Andrew C cfby, wrote to me con¬cerning tliis bond, I came to him and {hewed]him the forged -discharge, which fiienred himfo that I got up my bond without more ado.,And when I heard cf Tobert Kennedy’s death*.mb the fame help of C—l, I gat a Bill upo* himor ipof* of which l got 1'uil and complete pay-ient, C—1 got the half. When I was at Dum=.sries, the same day that R- bert Grier, died to,i/hom 1 was owing an acouut of 3&1 C—1 myi,ood brother, was then at London, and not be¬ing able of myfelf, being but a bad writer, tomake out a difcharge of the accorat, which I/anted, I met accidentally with one Robertioyd, a poor Writer lad in Dumfries \ I tookjitm to Mrs. Garnock’s, and gave him a bottlef wine, and told him I had paid Thomas Grier’siccount, bat had neglected to get a discharge,nd if he would help ms to cne 1 would reward;.im He flew, away from me in a great paflion,|ying, he would rather, be hanged ; but if l hadi| mind for thefe things, f had better wait till'—•1 came home .This gave me great trouble,taring what C—1 and I had done formerly waso feeret. I followed Boyd, to the ftreet, andilnade an apology, faying I was jefting, com-latnding him for his honefly, and got his pro-tjoise never to repeat what had pa fifed I l<;nt’or my Coufin B—m H—rie, your good bro-:sher, who w th no dlffi u'ty, for a guinea and• 1| half, undertook and performed all that Iwanted : and for a guinea more gave ms up a dtfSbarge for Sool. Scot', that I wa» owing torour father-in-law, and his friend Mr Muir™mead, which difcharge I gave to John Ewart,t’Uen he defired the mcney •, and he, at my de-re, produced it to you, which you fufnmed.A great many of tlie like Infuac&s ^ere told, Iof which I cannot remember the persona, names Iand things; but, fays he, what vexes niemoie Ithan all thefe, is the injuftice I did Homer Max- |w'ell, tenant to my Lord Nithsdale, for whom |j,I was factor. I borrowed aoeol. from him, I],500I of which he borrowed from another hand ;I gave him my bond, and, for reafans I contri¬ved, I obliged him to fecrecy : He died withinthe year, and left nine children, his ware beingdead before himfdf- I came to leal up h:s pa¬pers for my lord’s fecurity ; his el deft daughterintreated me to look through them ail, and togive her an account what was their flock, andwhat was their debt. I very wiliing'y under¬took it, and in going through the pipers, I putmy own bond in my pocket. Jrlis circumftancesproving bad, hi’ nine children are now ftarvingThese things J deft re you to reprelent to my7 wife,and take her brother with you, and let them heimmediately rectified, for llie has a fuflicient futnto do it upon*, and if it were done, I think Iwould be eafy and happy *, therefore, I hope youwill make no deiavAfter a fhert paufe, I anfwered, ’Tis a gooderrand, Coo! you are fending me.to do jufticeto the opprefl'ej and irjured ; bur notwitbitaru!-ing i’fee myfelf come in for 200! Scots, yet [begged a little time to ccnfidcr the matter. Andft nee I find you are aj much mailer of reefennow as ever, and more than ever, I will reaibnupon the matter in its general view, and then>9ith rernect to the expediency of my being thebflenger; and this I will do with all manner ofunkness. From what you have faid, I feeuarly what your prefent condition is, fo that I:ed not alk any more quefiions on that head ;d you need not bid me take courage, for atis moment I am no more afraid of you than atw bolrn child.Cool. Well, fay cn.Ogil. Tell me then, fince fuch is yonr ability,at you can fly a thoufand miles in the twink-pg of an eye, if your defire ro do the opprefledmice, be as great as you pretend, what's thetafon you don’t fly to the coffers of feme richw or Banker, where are thoiilands of gold andiver, inviiibly lift and inviflbly return it to theifpffers of the injured ? And fince your wifejas fuiticient fund, and more, why cannot youjjnipty her purfe invifibly, to make tkele peopleipcnds ?fj Cool. Eecaufe I cannot.| Ogtl. If thefe things be rectified, you wouldi e easy and happy ; 1 dont at all credit that, forWhatever jufl ce aiay be done to the people, yet•she guilt of the bafe action always remain uponJon -1 Cool Now you think you have fllcnccd me,nd gained a noble victory; but i will fbew yourour mi flake immediately ; for I cannot touchmy gold or money, by region of thefe fpiritshat are flated guardians of juftice and hqneffy.aa•,i Ogil. What is that you tel! me Cool ?not unworthy fellows break houfes every night,and yet you, that can put y*ui felf into fo -.nanhundred different fliapes in a moment cannot d^it '.v .Cool It is true, Sir, againft the living, menmay find out fome probable means of fecuringthemielves: but if fpirits departed were allowed,theu no man would be fecure; for, in that cafe,every man I had a ptjudice to would loon bebeggared, Ogil. Might you hot go to the mines of Mexbeo and Peru, where thofe Aims wculd not b»mi fled ?Cool. No, Sir, for the fame reafon.0>il. But, Cool, there is fo much treafufeloll in the fea, you may eafily dive into the hot- 'tom of itt fearch that, and refund thofe peopletheir iolfcs, where no man is injuredCool. Tuu are a little too forward this ivght,Sir, and incline much to banter: what I’ve f idmight latiify you, but Anceit does not, i’ll tellyou further, that no fpirits, good nor bad, hasthe power to take any money or gold ; the goodnever do, though the bad, if. once in an age,, itis no Xmail quarrel ; for if it were allowed them,!then they woul i be very fuccefsAil in their holi¬ness, and never fail of gaining their point.Ogil What hinders them, Cool ?Cool Superior power, that governs andguard* all.21lOgil You have fatisfleil me entirely uponbat head. But pray i Cool what ii the rtaloftHat you cannot go to your wife yoml'elf, andill her what you have a mind ; I fhculd thiiikhis a more fure way to gain your point.'j Cool. Becaule l will not.! Ogil. That is net an anlwer to me, Cool-i Cool That "is one of the q :eftions that l tcMiou long agp I would not anfwer; but if you go> ■ defire, I p^omile to give you full ia isfaction.ter you have done your bufmess, ) ruff me>r once; and believe iwe I - will »ot difappomtIOU.MT.1 Upon the toth of April. 1722, coming fromIfld Canibus, Upon the pofi road, 1 met withJ|oo! on the head of the heath called the Pees,le allied me,, if I had conildered the matter he|ad recomended ? I told him l had, and was inne fame opinion i was in when ,we parted ;tat I would not pollibly undertake his conamis-ijgus, umels he could giv’C nje them in writinghinder his baud I told him that the lift of hisnrievances were fo great, that l could not pofliblyremember them without being put in writing ;hd that 1 wanted nothing but realon to deter-nine me in that, and ail other affairs of my life^M know, says he. this is a mere evafion; but;l me if the Laird of Thurilon will do it ; 1 am)lre, laid 1, he will not ; and if he Ihould, Iwould do all that 1 could to hinder him; for lflunk lie has as little to do in tLele jnatters i%- amyrdf. But t-11 me, Cocl, is it not as eaf’,wrire your ftory as to tell it, or ri^e on whtJo-ye cali-him? fori have forgot your horname.Coo’, No, Sir, it is not; and perhaps 1 trtlconvince you of the rcafonabler.els of it aftwards-Ogil 1 would be glad to hear a reafon thr.jfolitl, for rot ipeaking to your wife ycurfBj.n, however, any rational creature maywhit a fool 1 would make of nayfelf, if 1 w(go to Dumfries, ant! tell your wife you had :|peared to me, and told fo many forgeriesvillanies that you had committed, and thatbehoved to make reparation; the confequermight perhaps be, that fire would fcold me;file would be loath to part with any money s|pofiVfies-, and therefore tell me 1 was mad,pofiibly ptirfne me for a calumny: how won!vindicate myfeif, how could 1 prove that you eifpoke with me ? Mr, Paton, and other tntniftin Dumfries, would tell me, the devil had fpokwith me: and why fhguld 1 repeat thefe thirfor truth, which he, that was a liar from tbeginning, had told me. C—p—1 and BH —rie would be upon me, and purfue me tfore the Commifiary: every body would loupon me as brain-fick er mad: therefore 1treat you do not infift upon fending me fodiculous an errand. The reafonablenefs cf rdemands 1 leave to yonr own confideratioR,you did your former to mine But dropping tmatter till our next interview’, give me leaveinter upon fo'tne more diverting fubjcct, I do notknow. Coo!, but the information you have given,nay do as much fervice to mankind, as the rc-■Irefs of ail these grievances would amount to.! Mr. Ggiivie died ibon after.f> in the Armenian Magazine for 1785 (in addi¬tion to what is mentioned at the bottom of p 5 };Dr. Hamilton (ays, “ The enfuing relation otnvhat followed,*’ (viz. An Account of the Con-jferences,) “ wrote in Mr. Ogtivie's own hand,was found in his dtfk, after his death, by MrsiOgilvie; (lie gave it to Mr. L. no ■/ minifter atI OiuhaniftoCAj, who gave it to to rue.”24VISITFROM THE WORLD OF SPIRITS.A Clergyman, whcjived in the MafLchafeft' iand had entertained an opinion, for more thai50 years, that inch Tories were only vapours ou stempercd and weak brains, was convinced aiiaft in the following manner.—Being in his owipgarden, he faw his own likenefs or apparition,drel-jfed just at he then was, pafs by him, and lookhiiri *full in the face. He ran into the houfe in a greatsSurprise, told his family what he had feen, thache was convinced of his former error, and that!he feared he Should live but a few days. Hiswords proved true, for he died a (bore tune after.FIN! S.J. Nei!?ea/ priefor.V* ; .1t . v- • •. ♦n)