[oL°L°[°t°[°[oL°[o[o[o[o[o[o[o1°[o[o[o[o[oCo[o -[o[o[o[o[:Co[o-II—II—1.—'I—II—ir—v*poooooooo ^THE WIDOW s SONRaised from Death,—000003^000003 —ALECTUREONLuke vii. 11,--16.Delivered before the Presbytery ofFoiidoun, Kincardine-Shire,December Sth. 1801'.By THOMAS GIBSON,NOW MASTER OF THE GRaMMAR-SCHOOLOF FALKIRK.«-c^V* CeiOFALKIRK:PRINTED BY T. JOHNSTON.1815.,0 0 0 0 0 0J1 !t " I l>o oL—UO]o]O]clO]o]Olol°jo]o]ol°j°1*1olo\ojo}olololololololololiM) |c S^ygVW K IV II’■;' ' ; . ■ . - • a« .c■ Xl:;. '! ..-v • / - • " X**. - x^o ;.o ■"■■•° • '-NALECTUREON#Luke vii. 11, c§’C. -And it came to pass the day after, that heKent into a city called Nain; and manyof his disciples Kent Kith him and muchpeople. 12. Now when he came nighto the gate of the city, behold, thei'e Kaza dead man carried onf, the only son ofhis mother, end she Kas a KidoK: andmuch people of the city was Kith her.13. And Khen the J.ord suk her, hehad compassion on her, and said untoher, Weep not. 14. And he came andtouched the bier, (and they that bare himstood still :J and he said, Young man,1 say unto thee, Arise. 15. And he thatTeas dead, sat up, and began to speak -andX 4 )and he delivered him to his mother.-—16. And there came a fear on all: andthey glorified God, saying, That a greatProphet is risen up among us; and.That God hath visited his people.The Miracles of our Saviour wereuniformly works of mercy and compas¬sion. That in the passage now read, iseminently so; and evidently points outJesus as sent from Goo, to be the Savi¬our of naankind. In every age andcountry, Miracles, we find, have beenallowed to be the most convincing proofof a divine mission; though many havepretended to such a power, who couldnot produce evidence, to the thoroughconviction of judicious and candid spec¬tators, that they acted under the imme¬diate influence of heaven. A Miraclemay be defined an extraordinary andwonderful effect, above the power ofnature, wrought by G-on, to manifesthis sovereign controul over it, or togive credit to some messenger sent fromhimself. Thus Jesus Christ evincedthe truth of his divine .mission as his( 5 1prototyi^G Moses also did. Thai mi¬racles indeed were of a very differentnature, and adapted to tlie no less dif¬ferent dispensations, under winch theywere wrought. Whilst the latter struckterror and amazement into the minds oxthe Egyptians, those of the former werecalculated to shew the love he has forhis people, his feeling''for their afflictions,his readiness to relieve them, and hisability to save. Perhaps none of ourSaviour’s miracles, if we except his rais¬ing Lazarus from the dead, display morepowerfully his overflowing goodness ofheart, and his sympathy with ethers,,when in distress, than the one to be re¬viewed; and perhaps there is not a sub¬ject which the Evangelists have relatedin terms better calculated to excite pity-and call up every generous and tenderfeeling of the mind. We have onlyto read the aocounf of it, to be in lovewith its Author. Every word- in thedescription of it, is big. with salutaryinformation, and points out to the feel¬ing mmd something that is new, striking -or instructive.Ltt ns then take a view of the leadingparticuiarG cf this aflecting st-oay, as the}*fd'C narrated by the Evangelist. Andthe first thing that offers itself for ourconsideration, is the person, on vrhoseaccount tee miracle was performed. Itwas a disconsolate mother, who had losther only son. The loss of a beloved childis an eiHictive dispensation at any time,andsits hard upon the minds of affec¬tionate parents. But vrheraour childrenhave survived the troubles incident tochildhood, and fatal to thousands, thentime and acquaintance have endearedtheir conversation to us. When we havenot only enjoyed the innocent amuse¬ments of their childhood, but are de¬lighted with the flattering prospectswhich their youth promises: When vrefondly hope that as they increase inyears, so they will grow in favour withGod and man: When we have begunto conceive just hopes of their futureattainments and prosperity, after a fewyears more shall have matured them foracting, with suitable propriety, their re¬spective parts in the world ; to hid thema final adieu at such a period, is what( 7 1parents can seldom think of, but with,the greatest reluctance. To see all theirfond hopes blasted; the pains they havebeen at in rearing the tender thought,in leaching the young idea how to shoot,in pouring fresh instructions o'er thetender -mind, and in instilling into itthe principles of piety, benevolence andtemperance ; I say, to have all theirflattering and laudable expectations cutoff for ever, is truly pitiable.But in the present instance we aretold, that the dead person was Ike onlyson of his mother; which rendered heran object of greater commiseration.—The grief for the loss of children, isoften alleviated by the reflection thatthere are some left behind, or others notimprobably expected to succeed in theroom of those that are taken from us.But in this case there was no remnantleft, to mitigate or to supply the lossof this disconsolate mother; raid whatheightens this climax of distress, isSt. Luke’s informing us, that she rear,a Widow. A state this of all othersthe most fi landless and forlorn; andJ( 8 ')■for this reason frequently mentioned iaScripture as that which God receivesinto his more peculiar protection. Thiswoman had previously, it seems, lost herhusband, and in his loss her cares weredoubled- Bereaved of him, she is de¬prived of her stay -and support, her shieldand protector. And if any comfort be¬longs to this forlorn state, it most com¬monly arises from the children, who areleft behind. They remain so many livingimages of a deceased husband. Theysucceed to his cares, and in some degreefill up his room, by comforting and as¬sisting a solitary mother. They are thearrows in the hand of a mighty man, todefend aged parents from violence andoppression; they -enlarge the interestsof a family, and enable it to bear upagainst any adversaries that may contendwith it. Deprived of the companion ofher youth, how anxiously would she nodoubt view her son, her only son, andlook forward to that period, now thathis father was gone, when he would beable to shield and protect her, and amplyrequite all the pains she had been at onhis account. We may suppose her oftenpraying, that God would be pleased toprolong his days, to keep him from theevils of the world, and to make him usefulin his day and nation. Suppose him nowarrived at manhood, and not only able: to support himself, bat also to assist her,who had been to him instead of a father,as well as an affectionate, and indulgentmother. With what pleasure would shedwell on the prospect, that in the declineof life, when her arms became feeble,and the intirnuties of old age were grow¬ing, fast upon her, this her son, her onlyson, would be able and also will ins -toassist and protect her; and by his filialattention and nameless gentle offices,cause her evening sun go down in a se¬rene sky. How passionately she lovedhim, we learn from the original; andhow in him all she held dear upon earthcentered, v.’e can easier imagine thanexpress. And as we may reasonablysuppose, that he was a promising youngman, and died with a fair character, whocan conceive the extremity of her grief,\vhen their delightful intercourse wasbroken off in an untimely hour, by thehand of the last foe, and this her qvjj( i° }child, in vyhoie uL her own was bound up,ihatehed from her by a premature death,and with her fon ail her bright profpe&s,like the b^feleh fabric of a vifioh, werefo'ever vaniihed ? How would her toofull break be ready to burft With themost poignant sorrow, when she beheldher sou, to whom she was so closely st-tachad by the ter.clerest ties of affection,stretched ou the cold bed or death ? Thenwhat bitterness would her heart not know ?Would she not be ready, in the first tran¬sports of her grief, to arraign the Provi¬dence of God, and, in the bitterness ofher soul, to call his goodness in q lestibr? ?See her in the attitude of the most heart¬rending grief, posted at/he bedside of herdeparted son, exclaiming, “ Have I livedto see you, the son of my vows, the stayof my widowhood, the staff ot niy age,the delight of my eyes; you that was onlylovely and dear to me upon earth j ha VsI lived to see -qu snatched from me inthe very bloom of thy years .'1 Have Inourished and reared you up with so muchcare, only so prematurely to. add to thenumber of the dead ? Why art thou cut offin the midst of thy days, and T, thy dis-0*1 )consolate behind ? Naked andexposed to the Ioanns of adversity, whoshall now shelter me from the fury of thetempest ? Had you been taken from me| ere ever a course of reciprocal endearmentshad wreathed thee so closely around myheart, thy loss would have this day beenlighter upon me. To have you torn fromme at the time when i was expe&tng pre¬sently to realize all my fond hopes, whichyour fair character and vigour of youthwarranted me to entertain, is althost in¬supportable. O niy son 1 my son! WouldGod I had died for thee! O my son!my son TYkx, sensible that her grief, howeverpoignant, could not recall the departedsoul of her son, she summons itn tha re-mains of her strength, and prepares, amida number of her mourning friends, to payI the last duties we owe to humanity,. Andnothing now remained, tbut that of takinga last farewell, ia consigrirg his relics tothe house appointed for r. 11 living. But letus here observe the astonishing goodnessof God to this Widow. While she ison her way to the grave of her son, and.( ^ y> •paKiop through, the gat»i‘qf the chy, themeFciful and compass,ton»te Jesus meetsher, ami says unto her, IVeep not. Hersituation was not unknown to him. HeKnew the tender feelings of her heart, withwhat pious care she had reared her son,ancj vvhattpfeasiRg prospects she entertainedof his protection z:A friendship in the valeof life. We are told, Jesus, had compas¬sion upon her, and said unto her, V/tep not.In this her mournful situation such anaddress from a stranger, when her griefwas at the height, and her dead son bornebefore, her eyes to his grave, might appearimpertinent, and as an insult offered to hersorrow. And in any other person, butour Lord, who was alone possest of powerto; turn her mourning into joy, it wouldhave been so in the extreme. “ And Jesuscame and touched the bier, and they thatbare it stood still; and He, at whoseAlmighty hat the worlds and the universewere brought'into exilience, said, YoungMen, I say ur.ts iber, Ar/s-.” And nosooner does the commanding word issuefrom his blessed lips, than he that was dead,burst the bars of death, sat up, and beganto sptah’ And he debversu uim. jo his( i3 )mother.1’ Hovy joyfully would ihe receivehei’ son that was dead, and .'per gratitudeto her divine Deliverer would appear inher every lock, whilst her heart would betoo big for utterance ? We are not indeedinformed, that the mother made any replywhen her son was delivered, to her.,; yet*we may conclude, that by her grateful de¬portment she convinced our Saviour, whoknew what was in man, that she vVas notunworthy, for whom he had wrought thismiracle. . Well might there come a fearupon all that saw this wonderful and asto¬nishing sight; well might they glorify God,and say, “ That a great Prophet was risenup among them, and that God had visitedhis people.” Such are the circumstancedof this affecting story, and such was thedeliverance afforded. And should any havethe impiety to assert, that the whole wasa trick, and took place as had b'e’en'previ¬ously planned by the' three persons princi¬pally concerned in’this surprising rehtioa;1 would only desire them to consldeh, thatthis Widow was entirely unacquainted withjssus, whom, till now, she had never seen;4id, even tho’ she had, what motives', I pray,coud have induced her, or heir ?o'h; to act( 14 )such a put, as they did. La order to addto the already growing fame of our Saviour ?Besides, what will go a great length, if notwholly convince every candid mind, thatit was no trick or deception, is, that noteven the most inveterate enemies whomJesus or his infant religion had to contendwith, once, called the authenticity of it inquestion, which assuredly they would havedone, had there been the least grounds, onwhich whereon to rest such a presumption.Let us now leave the happy mother andher friends magnifying 'the goodness andpower of Jesus, in restoring her son, whowas dead, to life, and improve this narra¬tive by making a few useful reflectionsupon it.And in the first place, let us contemplatedeath as aq event, the period of which isvery uncertain. The Scriptures speak ofour condition in this world in the mosthumiliating language : “ Man,” say they,“ walketh in a vain shadow.” Human lifeis compared to “ a vapour, (James iv/14.)that appe.aretfa for a little time, and the*vanisheth away.” And when they deserve(. 15 )it in its befi. eRater they only lih$n it toa common flower of the field which,though it ,comes forth freih and beautiful,fo that.Solomon, in a]} his glory, was notarrayed like one of.th.em, yet continuesbut for a little ; and, il fuflfered to reachlhe; end of its fbort duration, we fee it fade,filed its leaves and wither away. But, asof flowers, fo of mankind, very fe->v dropinto the grave like a iliock of corn in itsjeafpn. For farely we peed not he informed,thaodesth.[pares no age. The experienceof every one,will furnilh him with inllancesqf-perfons cut eft’ in all periods of life.—'tionie jjave fcarcely crofted the threfholdof life, when; their eyes are ftuit by thechilling hand; of .death. How many toocan we recoiled, who begun with us thecareer of life, with profpeds as fair, andhopes as fianguine as ours, whole ftrengthof conftitution promifed a length of healthydays, who are now numbered with the clodsof the valley, and, like the widow’s fon,cut off by a premature death ? In fhort,the child of a fpan long, the bloomingyouth, the man of middle age, with him ofmany years, are all mingled together, infad aftemblage, among!! the abodes of the( 16 )dead! Kay, how many around us, andbefore ds, py bidding adieu forever to allbelow the fun, teach us a lefToti, ivhich.One molrtd imagine, would never be for¬gotten ? The misfortune however is,. thatman, foolifh and infatuated man ! afts, asif he alone was immortal; whiliV he looksupon all around him as fubjecl to mortality.Shall we continue always deaf to the voiceof Wifdom ? Will neither the inftruftionsof the living, nor the mere fclemn warningsof the dead, beget in us Terious thoughts ?Shall’we continue to lengthen-our pforpefls,when, perhaps, we are Handing on the brinkof the invifible world ? We know net whata day may bring forth; The morning hasfmiled upon multitudes, who ere the me¬ridian fun have ilept the fleep of death.Who knows how foon fome of us maybe filled before the tribunal of God ? forwe have no power in the day of death, ar.dthere is no difdhatge in that war.23ly, SiNcr. life then is fo veryoticer* sin,and the thread thereof breaks at every blall,let us be exhorted (erioufly to confider ourlatter end- Let us often refl dl on thathoufe, which is focn to be the abode ofI 17 }ys all; ind, with the Patriarch cf old,(i, Say to corruption, Thou art ruy father;and to the worm, Thou art my mother,and my filler.'” Let every night we lier j down, reprefent to our imagination thatawful period, when our fouls (hall put offtheir robes of mortality, and wing theirflight into the prefence of their Creatorarid Judge! And let every morning remindus of a future day of retribution, when wefiiall give an‘account of the deeds donein the body,'before God, our Saviour,i angels, and an afLmbled world! Suchthoughts will fureiy make r.s feriouflymeditate upon our mortality. Let u$ afk,as in the prefence of God, at our hearts,whether we could, without fear and tremb¬ling, appear before the tribunal cf God,the Judge of all, were we to be addrefLd'cs the rich man in the Gofpel, “ This nightjj thy foul ihall be required of thee.” Iffrighted nature recoils and is appalled atthe thoughts cf inftant diUblution, let ustake a review of our naff lives, and com-. ■ * • * , , , . .pare them with the Law of God. Let usredeem our former mifpent time, the fadremembrance of which is calculated tohumble us in the duf:. If our paft tranf-( i8 )greiHans confoand us with the number and |aggravation thereof, let us inftantiy andwithout delay prodrate ourfelves beforehim in deep humility and felf-abafement.And, mourning over the fins of the yearsthat are pad, let us believe in a crucifiedRedeemer, who gave his life for the tinsof the world, and for his lake and thro' ihis merits implore compafliun and forgive-nefs from the Father of mercies. Let usnot give fhep to our eyes nor {lumber toour eye-lids, till we have made our peacewith God. till we feel wuhihrus that peace ’which psfibth underflanding. By, thus fa- Innliarlfing death to our minds, the gravewill graduc'ly lofe its terrors.In the Third place. We may fee the follyof placing our afie&ions too much uponthe tranfitory things of this paffing fcene.The widow loved her fon, which was verynatural and commendable, and her errorlay in her joying him to excefs. Her mindand affeftions were inordinately fet uponhim, and Heaven in its wifdora took himFrom her, and in his death panifued herfor her good. Yet as the Lord does notany but for their prefent or future'( 19 )good, he, In the multitude of his tendermercies, had companion upon her. Let usaifobeware of fettingourafTeftions too muchupnn the tranfient and pert finable things! in tins world ; but let us lay up treafuresl in heaven, which will never fade away.“ That God will not give his glory to; another, nor his praile to graven images.”And our Saviour exprefsly fays, “ Tnatv/hnfoever loveth father, or mother, orlitter and brother, or wife and children, orhoufes and land, more than him, is notworthy of him,” And what fhonld v.e beadvantaged, if we gained the whole world,at the expence of our i no mortal fouls fLasti.v, 'Hie rerurrecfion of this youngman to life, is a faint emblem of the glori¬ous sad triumphant refurrection of the jutlto eternal life. This life is indeed a lifeof trouble, but let us alfo remember thatit is of Ihort duration. Our days are fewand full of evil, and the mom ent is at nogreat diflance, when all fublunary joys andfbrrows with regard to us fliall be, as ifthey had never been. Was death to clofethe feene forever, and to prove (as the{ 20 )Infidel reformers of a nelghbourlcg ration,v/ould have us'believe) an eternal fleep,Chrifiians in fuch a cafe would be of allmen the moll miferable. l3ut, bleffed beGod, we have the {trongeft evidence tothe contrary, the cafe will admit of. TheScriptures of truth affure us, that beyondthe grave a happy eternity awaits all thofe,who by a patient continuance in well doingfeek for glory and immortality. Let theChriflian therefore look through all hissfHitilions beyond the prefent feene, andlift up his eyes to the everlafting hills,and anticipate that happy day that fhallplace him beyond the reach of woe. Lethim reflect on the inexpreffi de delight,of which he fhall participate, when an in¬habitant of the regions of the blefied!There, tlieae fh'dl be no more crying;and tears, and farrow, and fighing fhallfly away forever! And nothing fhall bewanting to crown his happinefs, but therefurrection of his body. How gloriousand joyful will his refurredtiofl be, whenhis foul fhall be reunited to Lis body, thenclothed upon with immortality ! Let us notgrieve then (as in tbe cafe before us) forthe lofs of departed friends, as thofe who( 21 )have no hope, but let us remember, thatthey are not loft forever; for that Christwill on the refurre&iori-ciiy fummon themetid us from the cold bed of death, neverto part r or know difeafe, pain or troubleany more. “ For, if we believe that Jesusdied and rofe again, even fo them alfo,who fleep in Jesus, will God .bring withhim.’’ And it, as we may reafonably fup-pofe, we fhall be known to one-another,with what tranfport of joy fhill death-divided friends embrace each other, andafcend with the triumphant Captain oftheir falvation to the manftons preparedfor them in his ard their Father’s hcufe iHow confolatc'ry mu ft it be to every piousfoul mourning the lofs of deareft friendsto know, that thus it will be ere long!“ For yet a little while and he, that {hallcome, will come, and will not taj'ry.”On the other hand, the refurredlicn {hallprove to the wicked the beginning of trou¬bles; for they too {hall be railed. It willbe, however,only to endlefs mifery and ivoe !And to them all the troubles and afflidli ns,which they may have endured while onearth, are inly the fad forerunners of never-{ 22 jending torments in that place, where thewornvdieth not, and the fire is not quenched!Such, fhall be their d*nm, when Christ flialljudge the world in righteoufnefs, and renderunto every -one according to his work..They fhall be banimed from the prefenceof Go pi of the Lamb, of angels, and ofjuft mehhhen made perfeft, into the-abodesof horpor and defpair!To conclude. If the refurredtion of the juftufher them into fuch joys as eye hath notfeen, nor ear heard, neither entered intothe heart of man to conceive; let us beftedfaft, unmoveable, always abounding inthe work of the Lord ; forafmuch as weknow, that our labour is not in vain in theLord. And, if that of the wicked is theprelude to every thing that is dreadful,even the blacknefs of darknefs for ever ;are they not without underftanding whowork wickednefs ?Let us therefore fo ferioufly confiderthe uncertainty of human life, as with theutmofl diligence to apply our hearts tothat heavenly wifdom, whilft here, which,through the merits of Jesus Christ, mayfinally terminate in everlafting life.Amew.( =3 )TWO PARAPHRASES.Her. ir. 14, to the end. , :rWHERE high the heav’nly temple Hands,The houfe of God, not made with hands,A great High PrieH our nature wears,The guardian of mankind appears.- H« who for men their furety Hood,And pour’d on earth his precious blood,Purfues in heav’n his mighty plan,The Saviour and the friend cf man.{ Tho* now afeended up on high,He bends on earth a brother’s eye;Partaker of the human name,He knows the frailty of .our frame.Our fellow-fufferer yet retainsA fellow-feeling of our pains;And Hill remembers in the IkiesHis tears, his agonies, and cries.In ev’ry pang that rends the heart.The Man of forrows had a part;He fympathizes with our grief,And to the fufi'rct fends relief.With boldnefs, therefore, at the throne,Let us make all our forrows known;And a He the aid* of heav’nly pow’rTo help us in the eyil hour.t -4} ]Ecclesiastes Ik. 4, 5, 6, roAs long a: life its trim extend',Hope’s blcfl dominion never ends;For while the lamp holds on to bum,The greateft finner may return.2 Life is the fealon God hoth giv’nTo fly from lu ll, and rile to heav’n;That day of grace fleets fail away,And none it* rapid courfe can flay.3 The living know that they mufl die;But all the dead foigotten ly:Their mem’ry and their name is gone,Alikh unknowing, and unknown.4 Their hatred and their love is loft,Their envy bury’d in the duft ;They have no {bare in ail that’s jjoneBeneath the circuit of the fun.Tlien, what thy thoughts defign to do,Still let thy hands with might purfue;Since no device nor work is found,Nor wifdom, underneath the ground.6 In the cold grasre, to which we hafie,There are no n&s of pardon part;But fix’d the doom of all remains.And evcrlafling Glencc reigns.•*, FINIS.Fatt-irk—S'. Jibniton. Trir.ter *