pnwMonthly Scrap Boor,FOB JULY.“ Now, if on Swithin’s feast the welkin lowers.And every penthouse streams with hasty showers,Twice twenty days shall clouds their fleeces drain,And wash the pavements with incessant rain.Let no such vulgar tales debase thy mind ;Nor Paul nor Swithin rule the clouds or wind.”-CONTENTS.The Pig and Magpie, 2A Visit to the Menagerie, 3A Friend at a Pinch,   6The Thimble and Pea,   11Falls of Niagara    13Monastery of St. Bernard,  18Episcopal Church in .Scotland,   21Variety of Short Scraps, 23St. Swithin’s Day 24Garden Work in July,   —DUNFERMLINE :PUBLISHED BY JOHN MILLER,Price One PennyTHE PIG AND MAGPIE.Cocking his tail, a saucy prig,A magpie hopp'd upon a Pig,To pull some hair, forsooth, to line his nest;And with such ease began the hair-attack.As thinking the fee-simple of the backWas by himself, and not the Pig possest.The Boar look’d up, as thunder black, to Mag,Who, squinting down on him, like an arch wag.Inform’d Mynheer some bristles must be torn ;;Then busy went to work, not nicely calling;Got a good handsome beakfull by good pulling.And flew, without a “ Thank ye,” to his thorn.IThe Pig set up a dismal yelling ;Follow'd the robber to his dwelling.Who, like a fool, had built it ’midst a bramble:.In manfully, he sallied, full of might,Determin’d to obtain his right,And ’midst the bushes now began to scramble.He drove the Magpie, tore his nest to rags,And, happy on the downfall, pour’d his brags : •But ere he from the brambles came, alack !His ears and eyes were miserably torn.His bleeding hide in such a plight forlorn,He could not count ten hairs upon his back.MONTHLY SCMAP BOOK,A VISIT TO THE CARAVAN.At Bartholomew Fair, Atkin’s collection of WildBeasts held a most conspicuous place. The peo¬ple “ tumbled up” in crowds, to the sound ofclarionets, trombones, and a lon<r drum, played byeight performers in scarlet beef-eater coats, withwild-skin caps, who sat fronting the crowd, whilea stentorian showman called out “dont be deceived;the great performing elephant—the only lion andtigress in one den that are to be seen in the Fair,or the proprietor will forfeit a thousand guineas !Walk in ! walk in !” I paid my sixpence, andcertainly the idea of the exhibition raised by theinvitation and the programme, was in no respectovercharged. 'Hie “ menagerie” was thoroughlyclean, and the condition of the assembled animals,told that they were well taken care of. The ele¬phant, with his head through the bars of his cage,whisked his proboscis diligently in search of eata¬bles from the spectators,' who supplied him withfruit or biscuits, or handed him halfpence, whichhe uniformly conveyed by his trunk to a retailer ofgingerbread, and got the money’s-worth in return,'i hen he unbolted the door to let in his keeper, andbolted it after him ; took up a sixpence with histrunk, lilted the lid of a little box fixed against thewall and deposited it within it, and sometime af-; terwards relifled the lid, and taking out the six¬pence with a single motion, returned it to the4 THE MONTHLYkeeper ; he knelt down when told, fired off a hlun-tferbuss, took oft' the keeper’s hat, and afterwardsreplaced it on his head with as fitting propriety asthe man’s own hand could have done ; in short, hewas perfectly docile, and performed various featsthat justified the reputation of his species for highunderstanding. The keeper showed every animalin an intelligent manner, and answered the ques¬tions of the company readily and with civility.His conduct was rewarded by a good parcel ofhalfpence, when his hat went round with a hope,that “ the ladies and gentlemen would not forgetthe keeper before he shewed the lion and the tig¬ress.” The latter was a beautiful young animal,with two playful cubs about the size of bull dogs,but without the least fierceness. When the manentered the den, they frolicked and climbed abouthim like kittens ; he took them up in his arms,bolted them in a back apartment, and after playingwith the tigress a little, threw back a partitionwhich separated her den from the lion’s, and thentook the lion by the beard. This was a noble ani¬mal ; he was couching, and being inclined to takehis rest, only answered the keeper’s command torise, by extending his whole length, and playfullyputting up one of his magnificent paws, as a catdoes when in a good humour. The man thentook a short whip, and after a smart lash or twoupon his back, the lion rose with a yawn, andfixed his eye upon his keeper with a look thatseemed to say—“ Well, I suppose x must .humouryou.” The man then sat down at the back of theden, with his back against the partition, and afterSCRAP BOOK. 5some ordering- and coaxing, the tigress sat on hisright hand, and the lion on his left, and, all threebeing thus seated, he threw his arms round theirnecks, played with their noses, and laid their headsin his lap. He arose and the animals with him ;the lion stood in a fine majestic position, but thetigress reared, and putting one foot over hisshoulder, and patting him with the other, as if shehad been frolicking with one of her cubs, he wasobliged to check her playfulness. Then by coax¬ing, and pushing him about, he caused the lion tosit down, and while in that position opened theanimal’s ponderous jaws with his hands, and thrusthis face down into the lion’s throat, wherein heshouted, and there held his head nearly a minute.After this he held up a common hoop for the tig¬ress to leap through, and she did it frequently.The lion seemed more difficult to move to th'ssport. He did not appear to be excited by com¬mand or entreaty; at last, however, he wentthrough the hoop, and having been once roused,repeated the action several times ; the hoop wasscarcely two feet in diameter. The exhibition ofthese two animals concluded by the lion lying downon his side, when the keeper stretched himself tohis whole length upon him, and then calling to thetigress she jumped upon the man, extended her¬self with her paws upon his shoulders, placed herface sideways upon his, and the whole three layquiescent, till the keeper suddenly slipped himselfoff the lion’s side, with the tigress on him, and thetrio gambolled and rolled about on the floor of theden, like playful children on the floor of a nursery.GTH2 MONTHLYOf the beasts there is not room to say more,than that their number was surprising, consideringthat they formed a better selected collection, andshowed in higher condition from cleanliness andgood feeding, than any assemblage I ever saw.Their variety and beauty, with the usual acces- .sory of monkeys, made a splendid picture. i bebirds were equally admirable, especially the pelicans,and the emew. This sixpenny “show” wouldhave formed a dozen sixpenny “ shows” at least,to a “ Bartlemy Fair” twenty years ago.A FRIEND AT A PINCH.For the Scrap Fook,“ For the want of a nail the shoe was lost,” saysFranklin, and we need not follow out his series ofconsequences in order to he convinced that little-tilings have their value. Minor matters are sel¬dom regarded by the many ; the thinking few,.however, regard them not the less on that account,for who knows not how often trivial causes have:been productive of vast and unlooked for effects.The insolence of a tax-gatherer seated a fisher boyon the throne of Naples,—the cackling of geeseawakened Rome to life and safety,—and the beau¬ty of Helen was the destruction of Troy.“ Dinna despise sma things” was one of theconcluding advices of old Elspeth Winnigate toEdward flenryson, who had been arguing somematter in economy with her, as she stood in thedoor of her cottage and watched the departure other nephew, “and dinna lipperi to your lang legs tocross the burn when ye can get the stappin’ stanes:”SCflAP BOOK. ishe added, as the young man walked on rapidlythrough the fields to reach the high-way—whichled to one of the market towns in the south otScotland. The person thus addressed was a youthabout twenty ; tall, stout, and active, who, havingbeen brought up by his aunt in the country, andafterwards settled in the county town, used oc¬casionally to visit his relation, and had this timebrought with him a supply of the newly importedand novel article—tea, of which Elspeth was par¬ticularly fond. Edward poss«ssed a clear and coolhead, and a spirit which had already borne himthrough several severe trials, and though the pathwhich he now trod bore a bad name in the neigh¬bourhood, a feeling of confidence and courageswelled his heart when he surveyed his well formedlimbs and sinewy arm. As he proceeded, an oddmixture of singing and recitative fell on his ear,and he soon recognized the chorus of a popular carol,-Come, rouse ye merry men all,WV1I trowl a stave fu’ jolly ;Long life to the hearty and free Bacchanal,Come, let us all join in a right fall til,And v/i’ mirth choke melancholy.A turn of the road shewed the worshipper ofBacchus in the person of a thick set, broad' shoul¬dered hind, who, notwithstanding his libations,made a tolerable attempt at progressive motion,and he rolled up to Edward with that free, hail-fellow-well-met sort of a manner, that, for thei time routs all ideas of distinction. Edward, whoi knew how to humour a tipsy fellow, shook his prof-i fered hand, and was- passing on with the customary. “ Glide e’en,” but this was denied till he had also” THE jioXTHt.Ytaken snuff with his free companion. “ Hae man,tak’ a snuff’, to be neighbour-like,” said he ; buton observing Edward’s moderation in the use ofthe article, “ tut, ye raw-cailant,” he added,“ what for are ye feared at the sueeshiu’ ? t:ik’ agoupen o’t, or I’se thresh ye.” The argument uniad hominem was not to be resisted ; so passingit off’ with a laugh, Edward returned the mull con¬siderably lessened in its contents. “ Crude nicht”was given on both sides ; the countryman rolledoff, and Edward, with his enormous pinch betweenhis fingers passed on.It was about the middle of autumn when num¬bers of strange and dubious characters are to bemet on country roads, and evening grey wasputting on her sober livery, when Edward wasagain accosted, but in a different s rain, by a swar¬thy fellow who carried a stout stick, and who, inno ceremonious way, with one hand seized him by hthe collar, and then endeavoured to trip up his heels, iiEdward, whose self-possession had left him on the jsuddenness of the attack, was soon convinced, by (a pull at his watch, that his situation was no lessdesperate than real, so shaking himself free he wasbestowing some hearty kicks on the rascal, whenhe closed with him, and being almost double hisweight, both rolled to the earth. But whenEdward found himself embracing mother earth, hereceived a fresh accession of strength, as did theTitans of old when they measured fists withHercules; and though the fellow pressed hisstomach very forcibly with his knee, he continuedto hold his arms in such a manner as to render i1SCRAP BOOK 9them ineffective fur mischief, and thus they laywithout advantage on either side. At this momenta lucky thought struck Edward. By a meremechanical act, he had still retained the country¬man’s snuff between his fingers, and that by a dex¬terous movement, was instantly transferred to therascal’s eyes. The application was as efficaciousfor his deliverance as if he had presented the shieldof Perseus emblazoned with the snaky Gorgon’shead. The fellow’s grasp was instantly unloosed,and Edward had little difficulty in rolling himoff into the ditch, roaring and smarting withagony. The first use he made of his liberty wasto possess himself of the poltroon’s cudgel, withwhich he walked off as fast as his agitation wouldallow him. “ Dinna despise sma’ things,” said heto himself, “ I never thought my aunt half sosensible till this moment; when did I think Ishould have owed so much to a pinch ? Wouldthat I had broken the villan’s head with his ownweapon,” continued he, grasping the sapling withsuperfluous energy. “ 1 should like to know whichof the two is the hardest timber.” At this mo¬ment a strife of tongues, consisting of ejaculationsand imprecation<, sobs and cries like those of fe¬males, mingled with the incessant barking of alittle terrier, arose at no great distance ; andEdward, whose blood was roused by his late con¬flict, pushed on to the scene of distress, for such itwas,—two young ladies in the act of being pillagedby another son of Mercury,—who was with theutmost barbarity trying to pull the rings out oftheir ears. The sight was to Edward as wood to10 THE MONTHLYlire ; the sundry ungracious fisty-cuflfs he had al¬ready received were only so many incentives toaction, and he rushed forward in a mood to enjoythe melee as tiie breath of life. His appearancecaused the fellow to release the ladies, but he him- Iself shewed no disposition to retreat. On the con¬trary when he saw, i>y the stick which Edwardiiourished, that it had* gone hard with his fellow Ilabourer, he heaved his weapon over his shoulder Ianu came up at a running pace, evidently bent onmischief. Edward had scarcely time to recollectIds points oi fence ere his man was at action. Bythrowing up St. George’s guard and stepping backa pace, he avoided the first blow which would have j|terminated the contest had it taken effect, so well [Iwas it delivered, while the rejoinder with which he |jfollowed, wa,s rendered partly inefficien thy the superior Idextemy’o: his&ntagonist. who seemed a most con sum- ]mate master at ^uarfer-sfaiT. Blows were given and Iparried on both sales for a considerable time, and Ilonger they might have fought had not the terrier by 1snapping at his heels and otherwise annoying the irascal, distracted his attention so much, that a lounge iffrom Edward given at an advantageous moment fcaused him to measure his length on the soil.1 lie ladies, who had waited the issue ata distance,now hastened up, and entreated Edward toaccom-pany them to Martiuvm*. Exhmsted by his exer¬tions, ami suffering extremely from a blow on thebead, he willingly accepted the o'fer, and in half ahhour he found himself surrounded bv a happy andsmiling circle, who vied with each other in render¬ing him their grateful services.SCRAP BOOK. 11About a twelvemonth after, there appeared inthe public prints the following- paragraph: ‘‘Married, Edward Henryson, Esq. to Alicia,eldest daughter to H. Montmorency, Esq. of Mar-tmvale. ’ By a singular coincidence, anothercolumn of the same paptr recorded banishment•against two notorious criminals, who, Edward af¬terwards learned, were the men that had formerlycommitted the outrage on his person, and to oned whom, he used to remark, giving a laughingtfock to Alice, he was very particularly obliged. *THE THIMBLE AND PEA.n.T this season the public roads are often infestedfy a st!t vagrants, who entrap unwary travel-•ers, by means of a Thimble and Pea—On theBth of June, 1825, a publican in the neighbour-™ Whitechapel was charged at the Publicrhce, Bo.w-street, bytMr John Francis Panchaud,loreigner, with having, in conjunction with seve-lal other persons, defrauded him of a £10 note, at-Wot Heath race-course, on the Thursday pre-edmg. J. Smith, the officer, gave the following-description to Mr Minshull, in order that theworthy magistrate might perfectly understand thease -A gang of seven or eight, or more, setp a table, but they all appear strangers to eachit her, and unconnected with the game, except one>no conducts it, and who appears to be the soleproprietor. ^ Phis master ot the ceremonies hasbree thimbles, and is provided with a number ofeas, or pepper-corns. He puts one under eachpimble, or perhaps only under one or two, as the12 THE MONTHLYrase may be. He then offers a bet as to whichfithimble a pepper-corn is or is not under, and offers'!at first such a wager as is eagerly taken by thosround the table, and he loses. He pays the losinosfreely, and the other members of this joint stoccompany affect to laugh at him, as what they cala “good flat.” Having thus drawn the attentionand probably excited the cupidity of a strangerwho appears to have money, they suffer him to wia stake or two, and get him to increase bis betsWhen he seems thoroughly in the humour, thmaster of the table lifts a thimble, under which i;a pepper .-corn, and turning his head aside to spealfto some one, he suffers the corn to roll off'; andiseeming to be unconscious of this, he replaces ththimble, and offers bets to any amount that theris a corn underneath that particular thimble. Thstranger having seen the corn roll oft’ “with hijown eyes,” as the phrase is, chuckles to himseliand eagerly takes the bet; the thimble is removecland behold !—there is a pepper-corn under it stilthe fellow having dexterously slipped another uider it when the first roiled off-the table. “ So thathe plain fact is, sir,” continued Smith, “that thstranger, fancying he is taking in the masterthe table, cheerfully stakes his money with a dea8certainty, as he supposes of winning, and he fimthat he has been taking in himself.” Smith sailhe had known instances of gentlemen getting trotheir carr iages, and in a few moments ridding thenselves of £20 or £30, or perhaps more, and g^ing off' wondering at their tolly, and looking uicommonly silly.SCRAP BOOK. 13It appeared that Mr Panchaud went up to oneof these tables, at which the defendant and manyothers were playing-, and after winning two or threetimes, the trick above described was commenced.The conductor of the game offered a bet of £5, andMr Panchaud having seen the pepper-corn roll off,took the wager, and put down a £10 note. In amoment after there was a general hustling, thetable was upset, and the whole party speedily dis¬appeared, together with the £10 note. When thebet was offered, the defendant, who stood next tohim, jogged his elbow, and said eagerly, “ Bethim, bet him, you must win, the ball is under ourfeet.” Mr Panchaud had no doubt, from his wholemanner, that the defendant was concerned with theothers in the trick. The case stood over for fur¬ther investigation ; and it is only inserted here forthe purpose of showing a species of slight of handcontinued in our own times to defraud the unwary.FALLS OF NIAGARA.It is a general impression, that, to go under thefalls, we must walk upon the level where theyspend their fury, and within arm’s length of thetorrent ; but it is not so ; our path lies upon thetop of a bank at least thirty feet above the bottomof the abyss, and as far in a horizontal line fromthe course of the falls, and close under the immenserock which overhangs them. This bank overhangsus,as one side of an irregular arch, of which the pondingside is formed by the sheet of water ; and thus, in¬stead of groping ourway at the foot of a narrowpassage, we stand mounted on a stupendous cavern.^ the monthly• 0nTn filie R10rni»g- in August, soon after sun-iise, I set oat noth a friend and a guide to visitT 8“bll,ne;cene- first thing to be done,er oesf ^ fower of ^ to strio our-so ves of a.i clot lung, except a single covering ofmen, and a silk handkerchief tied tight over theem-s. 1 Ins costume, with the addition of a pairot pumps, is the court dress of the palace of\V'c passed about fifty rods under the Table rock,icneath whose brow and crumbling sides, we couldnot stop to shudder, our minds were at once so ex-cued and distressed as we approached that eternalgate-way, which nature has built of the motionlesstoex and the rushing torrent, as a fitting entranceto her most awful magnificence. We passed ajutting corner of the rock, and the chasm yawnedupon us. 1 he noise of the cataract was most dea-lening ; its headlong grandeur rolled from thevery skies ; we were drenched by the overflowingsor the stream ; our breath was checked by theviolence of the wind, which for a moment scatteredaway toe clouds cf spray, when a full view of thetoi rent, raining down its diamonds in infinite pro¬fusion, opened upon us. Nothing could equal the ;flashing brilliancy of the spectacle. The weight oftire fa mug waters made the very rock beneath ustremble, and from the cavern that received themissued a roar, as if the confined spirits of all wholiad ever been drowned, joined in an united screamfor help ! If ere we stood—in the very jaws ofiNiagaia,—deafened by an uproar, whose tremen¬dous din seemed to fall upon the ear in tangibleSCRAP BOOK. 151 snd ceaseless strokes, and surrounded by an un-iraaginalle and oppressive grandeur. My mindrecoiled from the immensity of the tumbling tide ;i and thought of time and eternity, and felt that no¬thing but its own immortality could rise against the! force of such an element.i he guide now stopped to take breath. Hetold us, by hallooing in our ears at the top of hisvoice, “ that we must turn our heads away from■ the spray when it blow against us, draw the banddownwards over the face if we felt giddy, and notrely too much on the loose pieces of rock.” Withthese instructions he began to conduct us, one byone beneath the sheet. A few steps farther, andthe light of the sun no longer shone upon us. Therewas a grave-1 ke twilight, which enabled us to seeour way, when the irregular blasts of wind drovethe water from us ; but most of the time it wasblow!) upon us from the sheet with such fury thatevery drop seemed a sting, and in such quantitiesteat the weight was almost insupportable. Mysituation was distracting, it grew darker at everystep, and in addition to the general tremor withwinch every thing in the neighbourhood of Niagarais snuddering, I could feel the shreds and splintersof the rock yield as ] seized them for support, andmy feet were continually slipping from the slimystones. I was obliged, more than once,to have re-coutse to tne prescription of the guide to cure mygiddiness, and though I would have given theworld to retrace my steps, I felt myself followinghis darkened figure, vanishing before me, as themaniac, faithful to the phantoms of his illusion,r16 THE MONTHLYpursues it to his doom. Al! my faculties of terrorseemed strained to their extreme, and my mind lost*all sensation, except the sole, idea of an universal,prodigious, and unbroken motion.Although the noise exceeded by far the extrasvaganee of my anticipation, I was in some degree*prepared for this. I expected mo, the loss ofbreath from the compression of (fie air, though not'the suffocation of the spray; but the wind, theiviolence of the wind exceeding, as I thought, iniswiftness and power the most desolating hurricane-How came the wind there? There, too, in suchlviolence and variety, as if it were the cave of Eolusin rebellion. One would imagine that the riverabove, fearful of the precipice to which it wasrushing, in the folly of its desperation, had seizedwith giant, arms upon the upper air, and in itshalf-way course abandoned it in agony.We now came opposite to a part of the sheet,which was thinner, and of course, lighter. 1 heguide stopped and pointed upwards; I looked,and beheld the sun, “ shorn of his beams” indeed, liand so quenched with the multitudinous waves,,that his faint rays shed but a pale and silvery humupon the cragged and ever humid walls of theicavern.Nothing cm he lo iked at steadily beneath Niangara. The hand must guard the eyes against theshowers which are forced from the main body ofthe fall, and the head must be constantly averted 1from a steady position, to escape the sudden andvehement blasts of wind. One is constantly ex¬posed to the sudden rising of the spray, whichSCKAP BOOK, 17bursts up like smoke from a furnace, till it fills thewhole cavern, and then, condensed with the rapidi¬ty of steam, is precipitated in rain ; in addition to1 which, there is no support but flakes of the stonescovered with innumerable eels.Still there are moments when the eye, at one. glance, can catch a glimpse of this magnificent• saloon. On one side the enormous ribs of the| precipice arch themselves with Gothic grandeur! more than one hundred feet above our heads, witha rottenness more threatening than the water underwhich they groan. From their summit is projected,1 with incalculable intensity, a silvery flood, in whichthe sun seems to dance like a fire-fly. Beneath,is a chasm of death; an anvil, upon which thehammers of the cataract beat with unsparing andi remorseless might; an abyss of wrath !We had now penetrated to the utmost recess.. A pillar of the precipice juts directly out into the! sheet, and beyond it no human foot can step, but: to immediate annihilation. The distance from theedge of the falls, to the rock which arrests ouri progress, is said to be forty-five feet, but I do notthink this has ever been accurately ascertained,i The arch under which we passed, is evidentlyundergoing a rapid decay at the bottom, while therock, too, unwasted, juts out like the leaf of a table.Consequently a fall must happen, and, judgingfrom its appearance, may be expected every day ;and this is probably the only real danger in goingbeneath the sheet. We passed to our temporaryhome, through the valley which skirts the upperistream, among gilded clouds, and rainbows, and18 THE MONTHLYwild flowers, and felt that we had experienced a con- jisummation of curiosity ; that we had looked uponthat, than which earth could offer nothing to the eyeor heart of man more awful or mote magnifi ent.MONASTERY OE ST. BERNARD.Elevated on the Alps which separate Le \ alais |from Piedmont stands the celebrated Hospice au iGrand St. Bernard. It is 8314 feet above thelevel of the sea, and is the highest inhabited spot pin Europe. It is of the order of St. Augustine, Land was founded, in the eleventh century, by St. .Bernard de Manthe, a gentleman of Savoy, jBefore Buonaparte made the great and useful roads ajover the Simplon and Mount Cenis, the most fre- Mquented passage from Italy to Switzerland was by qtnis convent. It is still a very considerable hthoroughfare, especially for the poor Piedmontese, fjwho cross these Alps every spring to Italy and IFrance, for employment. In this convent twelve hMonks and six Domestics constantly reside, to re- j-iceive the poor without payment, and to succour athe distressed traveller. For this purpose the do- tmestics go out every morning in the, winter, on'ldifferent routs, to search for travellers who maytihave lost their way. They are accompanied byfttheir Dogs, which are of the Spanish breed, nearly Ias large as young heifers, fine powerful animals ; iand whose sagacity is so unerring that they follow •the tracks where the human foot has passed', 1though covered with snow eight feet deep. IheyJgo before the domestics, clearing a path through |the snow with their heads and feet ; and as soot 3SCRAP BOOK. 19las a traveller is near, they invariably smell himout, and lead the domestic to him, who is furnishedwith bread and wine to revive him Sometimes ado£r is sent out alone to find the lost and shiveringPilgrim, with bread and wine in a basket tied tohis neck. The number of lives saved in thisi manner is incredible. Last winter an old man! was found quite frozen, and was restored to life,i 1 wo other men had been carried away by an ava¬lanche and would undoubtedly have perished, but: for these good Samaritan monks and their humanei dogs. One single dog has saved the lives of fivei persons ; his name is Jupiter ; and there are fourf others whose names are Lion, Turk, Pallas* andCastor. We had them called to us that we mighti caress them, for they are good-natured and gene¬rous animals, j hey live upon a sour kind of soupI made on purpose for them. They are called theDogs of St. Bernard. Their fame is spread(throughout the world, and pictures of them aremultiplied.—One of them, who had saved twelve or thirteenpersons, was stuffed after his death, and is now at: Berne. One of the Monks pointed out to us|several spots Miere the dogs had discovered frozentravellers, and had rescued them. One place, in! particular, he shewed where they had discovered apeasant’s family perishing in the snow ; upon see¬ling- which, one of these noble animals contrived toitake up an infant and place it on his back, and thenhastened home to the Monastery to fetch personswho might rescue the unhappy parents. The story-affected us almost to tears. I saw, at Paris, athe monthlybeautiful engraving of this dog in the act of savingthe infant.— I wo of these dogs are of a brownspeckled colour, and three are white with fawnears : their heads are very large ; their teeth enor¬mous ; their necks thick, with flesh hanging downlike a bull’s ; their front feet are amazingly strong,and they stand very high upon their legs ; theirhaunches and hind legs are like those of hounds.1 hey add to all their other qualities that of beingremarkably gentle.This convent was built in 1550. The wallsare enormously thick, and strengthened with but¬tresses on the side of the lake behind, which is fre¬quently frozen during the whole year. The snowfalls almost all the year, and it commonly freezesin the morning even in the middle of summer.Dreadful storms of wind often come on unexpec¬tedly, and carry away travellers.Ihe Provost told me, that in 1800, Buonapartepassed this way. Fie had sent over 60,000 menfrom Prance to Italy who were three weeks incrossing. He came himself after them on a mule,it stumbled on the way, and had not the guidecaught him in his arms, he would have fallen downthe precipice. He rewarded his deliverer, whoever after went by the name of Buonaparte.Napoleon staid two hours and a half at the con¬vent, was dark and thoughtful, spoke little, tooksome provisions and a little wine, and appearedlost in silence. He asked if they knew the strengthof a neighbouring fort, went down to Italy, andfought the battle of Marengo ! The poor monkslost every thing during the war, even their linenSCRAP ROOK. 21i and furnitrre, yet this was the only convent theiconqueror spared.A regular journal of the state of the weather,land the principal events that occur at the convent,iespecially the lives saved, is published once a monthiin one of the periodical works at Geneva—I think,“ Bibliotheque Universelle.”—The benevolence and courage of this fraternityamount to a devotion truly extraordinary, as thefollowing incident will show:-The Italian Courier,a few winters ago, arrived fiom Aoste at St.Bernard on a very inclement afternoon. The(Monks endeavoured to dissuade him from proceed¬ing, but he determined to go, and they sent twodomestics to guide him. These not returning atIthe proper time, another servant and two dogswere dispatched. The dogs refused to move, a(certain sign that danger was on the road ; but lifewas at stake, and they were forced to go. No soul(returned that night, neither men nor dogs ; andnsome days afterwards, about half a league from theConvent, they were discovered, buried under anavalanche, all dead.Episcopal Church in Scotland.This religious society has subsisted, under va-irious circumstances and forms of government, eversince the Reformation ; but did not receive a legal•establishment till the year 1560. About thirty(years afterwards, episcopacy was renounced, andpresbyterianism adopted; but in the reign of James,|episcopacy was restored, and their prelates wereconsecrated by the English bishops. In the turbu-rwl A A.A M-J A A. A A-i Alent days of Charles I., monarchy and episcopacyboth fell together, and a solemn league and cove- ■nant was entered into for effecting the entire extir- ■pation of prelacy in the Scottish church. At theRestoration, episcopacy was again restored ; but 1the clergy being attached to the Stuarts, and re- ■'fusing the oath of allegiance to King William, [they obtained the name of Monjurors, and weredeprived of all their vvoildly dignities and emolu¬ments. The last claimant to the throne, common¬ly called the Pretender, having died in 1788, they*acknowledged the title of the reigning monarch ;the penal laws were soon afterwards repealed, anda union formed between the Scottish and Englishclergy.The Scottish Episcopalians maintain the divineright of Episcopacy, and the independency of thechurch on the state, but admit the propriety of ainational establishment. Contrary to the opinion ofithe Presbyterians, that all ministers are co-equaljthey believe that ever since the days of the apostlesthere has existed another and higher class, to whichthe presbyters have always been indebted for theirauthority, and responsible for their conduct ; andthat the priesthood of the New Testament, as wellas of the Old, is by succession.This church has adopted the Thirty-nine .ArriiicleS, generally in an anti-eah inistic sense, and alsothe Liturgy of the English church, with some trill-1ing variations ; but is governed by its own clergy,'under a distinct form of discipline, instituted ini1743. There are seven bishops, who are usuallyelected by the'whole hotly of the clergy ; but whopbCrtAf* iiOOK« 2Sare neither distinguished by titles nor riches, likethe English bishops. This community includesabout sixty congregations, and the same'number ofclergy of every description. The eminently pious. Archbishop Leighton, and the celebrated BishopBurnet, were members of the Episcopal churchof Scotland.    - J0neS'VARIETIES.A Goal Penmjxemth. An old highlandman, some years ago calledat (he shop of Wr Black, merchant in Biggar, for the impo^fant purpose of getting hp tpkuchen replenished with tobacco. Mr B wll ab,t of a wag, and liked well to sport a joke with his customers, but onm Was y, °utwitted- The highlandman enquired howS r t I’ree,0",S C°uld g6t for a Penn>’ ? Mr Black re-K^ he,ri*a?etf "’uch “ would reac!l from lug to W_Oot bliss exclaimed the eager purchaser, her nainsell will nowbe afSLl Mui^’ " " 1Ug ^ here’ and hs ndghb0-CaSe "/ 1{,,hherV—A few days ago a robbery was comd^e? ttnr Ia\T- laUgh 3ga'nSt the tradesman who was plun-dered. A well-dressed » victim,zer,” whose general apparel a pair ofcii/ "n l f1,1 c °eS dlSgrafd’ waIked int0 a bootmaker’s shopPin lhefcity, and asked for a particular neat pair of Wellingtons. Hewas rather a fastidious customer, but the master of the shop at last fined hfmwith great exactness. “ What’s the mice l,„ 1, r‘,mright foot to fasten himself immoveably in the new’purdiase2 beforean answer could be given, in darted a stranger to the shorn struck foeWted cus omer a vto ent blow in the face, knocked him flat, and then. off- J hf ln8uited Person leaPed up, with tbe blood streaming fromh,s nose and cry,ng out, “ where is the villain who assaulted^' out at fjll speed to catch the aggressor. “ I wonder ” said theowner of the shop, “ will the gentleman catch that ’ere rascal wot h rhim so sharp. I am afraid the boots will cramn h:m • t *1 i *was too tight, and it’s a pity if the fellow e.scajes.'’’_l“ C .^cKin ' t”“Toybtehattheigr.1.emanWith ,hebloody won’t come0 back“:’jnba, k f h//“V answered ‘h® shopman. “ What would he come. Has nt he got a good pair of boots for his bloody nose ?”ST. SWITHIN’S DAY.The opinion of the people on subjects-connected with nan,r-l i • .■s commonly founded, in some degree on fact or VSt0ry'in tins case, vague and inconsistem conclusions are too^reouentl1 d°U8hTh. „,i„. .oncl.n,? “SPjTS„t^24THE MONTHLYif put strictly to the test of experience, at any one station in this partof the island, will be found fallacious. To do justice to popular ob¬servation, I may now state, that in a majority of our summers, ashowery period, which, with some latitude as to time and local circum¬stances, may be admitted to constitute daily rain tor forty days, doescome on about the time indicated by this tradition ; not that any longspace before is often so dry as to mark distinctly its commencement.The tradition it seems, took its origin from the following circum-stances Swithin or Swithum, Bishop of Winchester, who died in 868,desired that he might be buried in the open church-yard and not inthe chancel of the Minster, as was usual with other Bishops. Thisrequest was complied with ; but the Monks, on is cing canonize ,considered it disgraceful for the saint to be in a public cemetry, resolvedto remove his body into the choir, which was to have been done withsolemn procession on the 15th of July ; it rained however, so violen -]y for forty days together at this season, that the design Was abandoned.Now without entering into the case of their Bishop, who was probablya man ot sense, and wished to set the examp e of a more wholesome, aswell as a more humble mode of resigning the perishable clay to thedestructive elements, I may observe, that the fact of the hindrance othe ceremony by the cause related, is sufficiently authenticated by tra¬dition' and the tradition is so far valuable as it proves that the summersin this southern part of our island, were subject a thousand years agoto occasional heavy rains in the same way as at present.GARDEN WORK IN JULY.Plant more cauliflowers for autumn; and cabbages, savoys,brocoli, and leeks for winter. If any vacant ground, sowturnips, carrots, onion, winter spinage, u net cal^®> e11dive, &c. Towards the end, plant sweet herbs. Trans¬plant celery, more cabbages, and cauliflowers, on heground where the early pease are done. W ater, m Vweather, always in the evening. Dung and dig gromifor full crops of winter greens and cabbage .o be ph.nte l,next month.July Ist. bo. m.Sun rises, 3 46——sets  6 14July 30f/t. ho, m.Twilight begins, 1 36Sun rises, ** ,' sets,  7 43Twilight ends, 16 40