The RenowjiedHISTORYOF THESEVEN CHAMPIONSO FCHRISTENDOM.r ,VIZ.it. George of England, I St. Dennis of France,It. James of Spain, I St. Anthony of Italy,.It. Andrew of Scotland, ; and,lt. David of Wales, j St. Patrick of Ireland.EPITOMIZED.shewing their valiant exploits both by Sea and Land;their combating with Giants, Monfters, Lions andDragons Their Tilts and Tournaments in honour, of their Miftrefles: Their overcoming Magicians andNecromancers, and putting an end to their direfulEnchantments: Their Knighthood, Chivalry andmagnificent prowefs, againft the enemies of Chrift,and in honour of Chriftendom, in Europe, Alia, andI Africa. To which is added, the true manner oFtheir Deaths, and how they came to be entitled.The Seven Saints of Christendom,GLASGOW:Printed for GEORGE CALDWELL, Botk.ftller in Paificy. 1784..The Renowned HISTORYOF THESeven CHAMPION'S, &c.CHAP. I.’The birth of St. George ; he w he nuas JJolen aivay from 'his nurfes, and how he delivered himfelf and the other fix tChampions from the Cave of Kaljb the Enchantrefs. IAFTFR that this our Iflnnd (firft inhabited, byBrute) began to flourifh with arts and arms, ini’the famous city of Coventry lived the renowned Al-fb«rt, Lord High Steward of England, that took towife a lady of matchlefs beauty and virtues, who hav¬ing been long barren, at lafi conceived with child, but*nightly dreams ro tormented her mind (that (he wasconceived of a dragon which Ihould caufe her death)as (he never ceas’d, but caus’d her lord by art to learn■what fhould be the meaning thereof, who cordefcend-ing to her defires; accompanied only with one knighr,repaired to Kalyb, the lady of the woods, from whomhe received this myfteiious Oracle ;Sir knight return home to thy lady,Who hath brought forth a worthy baby,A champion bold, of courage (font,Whole tamo lhall ring the world throughout.Tke Renowned Htfiery of the, 13c. 3avlng received this anfwer, they foon returned, hue: he came home, his lady by loftng her own life,ought another life into the world, being deliveredla fon, upon whofe brealf was figureda dragon, oaIs right hand a blood red crofs, and on his left leg allden garter: his name was given him George, andiree nurfes provided to look to him; notwithlland-g which, he was ftolen away by the enchantrefsplyb; which when his father upon his return found,r very grief he left his habitation, and ended his|e in a ftrange country.lln the mean time, St. George grew in ftrengtb andlauty, whofe noble deportment (being now grown tom’s eftate) fo fired the heart of the enenantrefsth lull, that with all the feducement imaginable Ihejght to accomplifb her dtfnes, and to gain his af-Slion^, revealed to him of what lineage he was, ando gave him the command of her cave by the gift offilver wand, which file put in his hand, leading hima rock to behold fome trophies'of her forceries, but: entring in before him, he fttuck the rock with hismd, which prefently clofed, and in it this miferable■man, wheie fhe ended her wretched life.Sr. George then like a gallant knight, releafed fromraldom fix worthy champions, whom this enchant-s Kalyb had a long time kept prifoners.* viz. St;mnis of France, St. James of Spain, St. AnthonyItaly, St. Andrew of Scotland, St. Patrick of Ire-id, and St. David of Wales; he with them mount-^ their Heeds, and girding on their fwords, whicho they found in the cave, departed forth to feek out,ventures, travelling till they came to a fpacious110, in the midft whereof Hood a brazen pillar thatd leven feveral ways leading to it, which invitedefe feven champions to take each of them a divuletit. Were we will leave fix of them to their dif-•ent progrelies, and relate in the firlt place the ad-ntures of our Englifii anight, as you n.ay read ine chapter following.The Renowned Hijiory of theCHAP. If.How St. George killed the burning Dragon in Egypt, aredeemed Sabnne the king’s daughter from death. He.be ivas betrayed by Alniidor the black king of Morroctand Jent unto the Sultan of Perfia, where he remainedjwn years in prifon.THE valiant St. George having left^he other £champions, as you have heard, after foma fimonths travel, arrived within the Egyptians territlies, which country was at that time annoyed withburning dragon, whofe hunger, if it were not eveday appealed with the body of a true virgin, he woubreathe forth fuch a Ifench from his noftrils, asinfedlthe whole country with a horrible plague, which ffour and twenty years together continued, till thwas not one virgin left but the king’s daughter on'and !he ready next day to be offered up in facrifice j{him, if the dragon in the mean time was not deilred; wherefore the king her father proclaimed, thwhofoever would combat with the dragon and prtfehis daughter’s life, in renown thereof fltould haveto wife, and the crown of Egypt after his deceafe;which was made known to St. George by a'hermitthat country ; whereupon he refolved to undertake t|adventure, and lodging with the hermit that nigl|the next morning mounting his ffeed, he rook hisjm tney to a valley, whither the king’s daugbter^was lea ling by fage matrons to be made a prey to the drago ^jaws, whom our Englilh knight accolling lettirni lher back to her father, promifed to kill that enemy ].Egypt’s health, or lofe his life in the encounter, alb like a bold adventruous knight, rode to the plijwhere the dragon had his refiderce.This honible diagon, whole monflrous proportwould have afrighttd any knight but only St Geotas foon as file beheld him, wallowed from her hi®u$ den, and gave him a fierce ail'dult with her witSeven Champion) of Chriflendom. 5ihd tail, who nimbly avoiding her fury gave her fuch aturft with bis fpear, that it fhivered into five hundredieces; the dragon coming on afreth, fino.e him fuch! deadly blow as felled both horfe and man to theround ; when again rifing and ftepping a little back¬wards, he went under the proreftion of an orangeee, which was of fuch virtue, that novenemous thingare approach unto H, where this valiant knight ahile refled him, and refrtfhtng himfeif with thelice of one of the oranges, he again entered combatith the dragon, after many fierce affaults with anager coinage doled with her, and tbruit his fwordupd the hilt in her bellv, bring penetrable in no otherilace, from whence iflued fuch abundance of purpleore as turned the grafs into vertniiiion colour, andien redoubling his blows, gave her fuch another thruftnder the wing with his fword, as pierced her heart,ver, and bone, and made her yield her life to theorce of the conquering champion, who retut tied thankso heaven for his victory with his good fword,thich was called Afcaiort, he cur off the dragon'sead, and pitching it on the truncheon of his fpear,ode towards the court, expecting lor his good ferviceo be moil royally entertained.At that time Almidor. the bUck king of Morocco,vas in earnefi fuit with king Pirtlomy, for to have hislaughter Sabrine in marriage, and having notice of St.George’s victory, fearing he would become his rival,te intended to rub him of his honour, and- to that pur-jofe hired twelve Egyptian knights, who fet upon>t. George as he was coming to court; but the valiant:hatnpion fo behaved himfdf, that in a little fpace henade their lives pay for their treachery; which Al¬midor perceiving, when he could do no otherwife rano the court, crying, Viftoria! Victoria ! The ene-ny of Egypt is overthrown.This being madeknown to king Ptolomy, Sr Georgeivas moft rovally received by him, but far more ccuf-eoufiy by his beaurifu! daughter Sabrine, who thenfet her affedUons fo deeply on him, as length of time■6 The Reno'wntii Tliflary ef thewould not wear it out, which ihe could not forbear)exprefs unto him, and once at fuch a tiir;, as fheoverheard by this black-moor king, whole lovederided in refpeft of the Englilh knight’s, profferiMto forfake her parents and idol gods, and to tra^jwith him whercfoever Fortune would guide their tieall which was by Almidor made known to king Ftlomy, who thereupon confulting together, framedletter to the Suban of Ferfia, in which was containi is fentence of death, and he made the melfengerrarry his own condemnatipn, which he very innocely undertook to do; and coming to Ferfia, near tSultan’s palace obferving their monftrous idolatry,could no longer hole!, but threw down their irragof Mahomet and Apollo, and flew tltofe who offer«to withftand him; infomuch that the rumour tfiere j1'eing noifed at the cdurt, great forces were fent-i)gain?! him, whom be oppofed in fi.ng'e felf, and fetsjnany of them to the Stygian river'; but multbudovercoming valour, his numerous enemies fo wearyirbis arm, that his never daunted courage was forcediiyield, and let his weapon fail to the ground."" ~ ^ ~ bailThere was he taken and carried before the Suitto whom he delivered Ptolomy’s letter, who theremuch enraged, commanded St. George, to be laid 41a deep dungeon, vowing he fttould never return therout unlefs it were to execution; where now we muJeave our Englilh champion, to relate the deeds of thlother fix. And firft what befcl St. Dennis of France. >CHAP. HI.flew Si. Dennis was transformed into a hart by enchantsmulberries, and how he recovered his Jhafe, and put mend to the enchantment of Eglantine the king'y daughter *Thejfaly.SAINT Dennis, the worthy champion of Franceaf,fier he parted from the other fix championsthe brazen pillar, travelled till he came into the deStven Champions of Chrifiendom'. . ?Iart country of Theffaly, inhabited only by wild beafts,?bere being almoft familhed with hunger, chanced toeed upon the berries of a mulberry tree, which beingnchanted by magick art, in an inftant transformedtis body into the 1 kenefs of an hart (only his naturaleafon remained) in which condition he remained aong time, bewailing his misfortune, till one day,"hading himfelf under the leaves of that lucklefs treehe heard a hollow voice from the trunk thereof breatheforth thefe words, “ Worthy champion of France,know that this tree proceeds from fair Eglantine,the king’s daughter of Theflaly, who for my pridewas transformed into this mulberry trte: fevenyears thou mull continue in the ihape of an hart,when thou flislt be reftored by eating of roles,M‘ which being done, cut down this tree, and thereby(hall the enchantment be ended.”At the end of which prefixed time, his hdrfe, whojhad a long time left him, brought two rofes in histeeth, wljich St. Dennis took and ate, and immediatelyfell into a deep fleep, and upon his awaking, he foundhimfelf returned again to his foimer fhape, for whichhe returned thanks to God, and curioufly decked andtrimmed his horfe for his worthy fervice. Then tak¬ing his fword in hand, proceeded to finifh the enchant¬ment, and with one blow cut in funder the tree, fromwhich iffued a moft beautiful damfel, of fuch an ange¬lical love, as fired the Fiench champion’s heart with"'affe&ion to her, and after fame parleys of love part be-’twixt them, they plighted their faiths to each other,jfnd then travelled together to her father’s court, whoreceived them with unfpeakable joy and comfort;where we will leave this champion of France to relatewhat happeafd to St. James the champion of Spain.8^ht RenowniJ Hijlory of theCHAP. IV.Honu St. 'Jama the champion of Spain, killed a moild heaiin Inaia: honv for the Chnftian religion he Jbould hawbeen /hot to death: and bow he foie atuay the king*\daughter.THE renowned Spanifti champion, in his progref;in feeking out adventures, after many worthy?£ls by him atchieved, came tojhe magnificent city o ijerufalem, juft at fuch a time as Nebuzarad the kin^ithereof was going out on a royal hunting, havinjimade proclamation, That whofoever flew the firft wilebeaft in the foreft, fhould have in reward a corflet oHeel worth a thoufand fhekels of filver.Thirft of honour, and hope of gain, the two fpunjthat prick men forward to worthy enterprizes, caufedSt. James to join hinifeif with this honourable com-)pany, yea, to outgo them in noble refclutions; foifcouring over the plain before the hunters, he carnalinto a fpacious foreft, where his valour quickly had|an objedt to work upon, being a mighty wild boar.jlying before his moffy den, of fuch a wotsdeiful big.jrefs and proportion, as is almoft incredible to declare.]but the magnanimous champion St. James, nothing]daunted, couragioufly fet upon him, dealing fuch blow#(with his keen falchion, that ere the reft of the compa¬ny came in, he overcame that monftrous boar, cuttingoff his head, and prefenting it to the king of Jerufa.Itm, who accordingly gave him the reward promifed;but having intelligence immediately, that he was aSpanifh chrifiian, his mind was altered, that immedi-iate y he condemned him to die; yet for his good fer-jvice in killing the boar, gave him leave to chufe hisiown death. Sr James feting it would be no orher- jwife, dtfired to be bound ’o a pine tree, and after art!hour’s refpi'.e to make his peace with heaven, to b< jfhot to death by a true virgin.But when the fame came to be put in execution, noli;SfVtn Cbampitns t>f Cbrifteniom. ()line maid could be found thaf wmjid undertake it;'vhereupon the king commanded'•har lini fhould bewhich fell upon hi>i own daeg>i er, the beautccus•Celeftine, w-hofe heart was already itrtd ^ith the love"of the heroick champion ; and therefore on her bareiknees, earneftly begged his life of her father, wHchiwith much ado was gianted, bnt he for ever banifhsdithe land, and departing a little fpice, out of the 1 vethe bore to Celtftine, who had preferveti his life, heventured again, difcolouring his fa e and hands, aoi'remaining dumb that he m>ght not be known, at iaftcyot an opportunity to difeover himfelf and obtainingher confent to go along with him in the dead tiiv<e of(the night, mounted heron his fteed (which he fh id^backward to prevent purfuir) and after many dangersinarrowly efcapcd, at laft they happily arrived in Spain,CHAP. V.Tbe Adventures of St. Anthony, St. Andrew, and St. Pa*trick, the champions of Italy, Scotland, and Inland.THE noble champion St. Anthony of Italy having(after leaving the other fix champions) travel¬led over many hills and dales, woods and forefts, cametat laft into the country of Th'race, where upon thetop of an high mountain ftood an impregnable caftte'wherein lived a terrible giant, named Blanderon, thathad over the principle gate of his cattle thele verfeswritten:'/What champion to this caftle doth repair;Here lives a giant bold within this place,V' ho pris’ners keeps feven Virgins chafte and fair.Daughters unto the noble king of Thrace,All thpfe who with this giant fierce will fight,iShall have a Virgin’s prayers day and night.Thirft of glory and honourable renown, fo fired thebreaft of the noble champion, that he thundered at theto The Sfncf'Jncd fUJIory (tf thegate wi:h the pummel of his fword as loud as Cyclopswhen they forged the ar.nour of Achilles; the giaattbeing routed at this terrible noife, came tunning outtof the gate with a great oak tree fl; urilhing about httihead, intending with one blow tociufh in pieces thfl:bones of St. Anthony for difturbing him of his repofcybut the nimble night fo avoided his tlrokes by fkip-iirg continually out of his reach, that the giant in a(fhort fpace grew weary with brandilhing fo unweildya weapon, which when St. Anthony perceived he lighwly leaped to him, and w irh one blow brought the gt-fant upon his knees, which being feeonded with ano-tther of mighty force bereaved the giant of his life,fending his foul into the dark regions, there to inha-;bit with grim Pluto, then tharnking God for ids vi&c-ry, he' entered the caftle, where he was kindly en;er4tained by Rofdinde, one of the Thracian king’s daughi;ters; Ibe fhewed him all the rarities of the cafile, andamongft the reff, fix filver fwans fwimming on a greattpond of water, which were the other fix daughters 08tiie king of Thrace, whofe chaftities the luftftil gianft’.attempting to violate, the kinder deftinies (in com-’ngiferation of them) transformed them into rrilk-wfitte fwans, to ftgnify their challities were withouttfpot and blemilh.After fome fhort repofe to refrefh himfe’f, St. An¬thony with Rofalinde p^fted to the Thracian court,where they were kindly entertained ; but the kingjihearing of his daughters transformation, with greatsgrief departed to the caftle, refolvrng there to fpend 1his days with invocating his country gods, to reftorethis daughreas to their fhapes : whereupon St. Antbo-r*y not willing to fpend his days in eafe and luxury,rtfolved privately to depart from thence, which beingmade known to Rofulinde, flie alfo fecretly departedwith him.In the mean time, the famous champion St. Andrewiof Scotland, having palfed through many dangers in ajvale of walking fpirits, came wandering alfo into this,country of Thrace, fortune guiding his fteps to th®Seven Champhns of Chrijhnlcm. itfame caftle wherein the Thracian king was w^rfiiippii ghis heathen gods, which he perceivh g, and koqwingthe caufe of liis great idolatry, St. Andrew like a ii u<achriltian champion, taught him the woifhip of theliving God ; which, when they had tightly performedon a fudden the milk-white fwans were changed intothe ihape of beautiful ladies, to the great j-jy of adprefent; for St. Andtew having knowledge it was Sf.Anthony that had (lain the giant Blanderon, and howhe was departed with the lady Rofaiiode, he fecretiy1 Hole away from the Thracian king, to feek St. An¬thony whom he greatly longed to fee; and the king’s! daughters underftanding he was gone, travelled after(him, whofe fuddtn departure cauftd great furrowthroughout all Thrace.The fix ladies having travelled many a weary mile,lin a fruitlefs fearch after St. Andrew, came at laft toan uninhabited wildernefs, fave only with beafls and.«favage monfters, where they were furprized by thirtyi bloody fatyrs, that hauled them by the hair of their[hands, regardlefs of their flrouts and loud founding[outcries, intending to have ravifhed them of theirvirgin honours, but heaven, (that always favours the■ virtuous) had fo ordered it, that St. Patrick, that:(magnanimous Irifh champion, after many heroic ac-itions by him performed, was at the fame inftant alfcrlin the defart place, who beholding the inhumanity of■Ithofe favage creatures courageoufly fet upon them, andipwt them to flight, delivering thereby thofe moff ex¬cellent princeffes from death, or what they account¬ed worfe than death, the fpoiling of their virginities}iwho after fbme pauie of time, being a little come toIthemfelves, related to St. Patrick the occafron of their.journey, with an account of the atchievements bothof St. Anthony and St. Andrew, as you heard beforein the beginning of this chapter, St. Patrick comforting■them the befl he could ; like a noble knight undertookto be their conductor in their undertakings, havinghimfelf alfo a mind to behold thofe magnanimousknights who formerly had been his champions of theThe Kenewtted Wft try oftheof in which journey we will tor a while leavethem,to relate the aftiors of thefeventh and laft cham¬pion, St. David of Waits.C H A P. VI.How St. David tbt champion of Wales by art of magic hfeptJeven years m 'be enchanted garaen of Ormondine the Ne~th Necromancer, and how St George efcaped out of pri-fon in Per/ia, and redeemed the champion of Wales fronthis enchantment.WS come next to fpeak of that magnantmious he¬ro, St. David of Wales, whole valiant exploits,and heroic perfoimances were nothing inferior to thereft of the fix champions ; making the name of Chrif-tendom famous in thofe nations that acknowledge notrue God, efptcially his adions in the Tartarian court,are nor to be p. fTcf'Cver in fileoce. where his prowefsgained him the honour to became the Smperor’scham-pion. But upon a folemn feall day, whereupon werekept royal tilts and tournamems in honour of the Em¬peror’s birth, it was St. David’s unlucky fortune tokill the count Palatine, being heirapparanr to the Tar¬tarian crown, at which the Emperor was fo incenfed,that he would have llain him prefeivtly, hut that in ho.nour he could not do it; whereupon he bethoughthimfelf of a cleanly conveyance, which was to the en¬chanted garden upon the confines of that country, keptby a famous necromancer, named Ormondine, bindinghim by the oath of knighthood, to bring him from :thence the necromancer’s head ; all which St. Davidpromifed faithfully to perform, and with an undaunt¬ed courage went to the place, where at the entrance irtwas i a rock of flone, in which was inclofed a moil'rich fword, nothing appeared outwardly bur the hilt; tabout the pummel thereof in letters of gold was thusengraven ;This fword cannot be pull’d forth.But by a knight from out of the north;fScvffi Chctrpicns cf ChtiJler.Jcm. 15St. David verily imagining himfeif to be this knightif the north, coura?ioufly afTailed to pull it forth ; but10 fooner was his hand on the hilt but his fenfes wereippfrft with a fomniferous deep, that it was impt^T-ible for him to a>vake until rhe enchantment was fi-lifhed, which afterwards was performed by St. Georgevhofe exploits we now c »me to relate.Seven times had the world’s 'blight eye run his an-tua! courfe through the twelve figus of the Zodiac,irce St. George was confined in that nafty Perfianjrifon, by the treachery of the king of Morocco;■ hen by chance tumbling upon a bar of iron, he madefuch ii<e of ir, that with continual labour he diggedhimftlf a paff^ge through the ground; till in the deadtime of the night he tfcended juft in the middle of theSultan’s caurt : time and place ,/hus favouring his de¬signs, he ceafed not to lend iris affifting arms, to worktout,the reft; for hearing fome grooms in the Sultan’silable, preparing their horfes ready to go on huntingrhe next day,' he took the bar of iron, and killed themall; which being done, he took the ftrongeft gelding,lind richeft caparifons, wherewith he bravely furniihedhimfdf; then with a chaik-ltone upon a black marblebillar, he thus wrote,Sultan farewel, for George is fled,Thy fteed is loft, thy grooms are dead.j So fetting forward towards the gates, he thus fa-lutes the porter, •• Porter open the gates with fpeed,r for George oi England is el'caped out of prifon, andhath murdered all the Sultan’s grooms, which hasf‘ alarmed ihe whole court.” The porter, ignorant>f what had happened, opened the gate for Sr. George,who with a nimble pace never relied till he came wi rh-in the confines of Greece, beyond the reach of the Per-'tan horfemen, who in vain purfued after. But nownunger again opprefled him a (harp as imprifonmentdid before, fo that for fcveral days his horfe and hetiared.alike, being forced to eat the gtafs of the field.14 77>£ Renoiuned Hi fiery if thtand fo drink the water of the running ftreafflS ; at laihe efpied a caftle not far otF, whither he diretted h'4weary fteps, defiring of a lady, who ftood lookingdver the walls, a meal of meat to relieve almoft a familhed knight; but (he with a curft frown bid hintbegone, or elfe his life fnuft pay for his prefump'tion, her j[ord being a mighty giant, that with crulhed bones did recompeiMe the faweinefs of fuch intruders. Now, faith St. George, by the honour of mknighthood here will I obtain my dinner, or elfe become food for crows by his accurfed hand. The lad;abafhed at thefe words gave information, to the giantwho immediately came forth, of fuch a monftrous an*deformed proportion, that he would have daunted icourageous knighr, though ftrong and luftful for arencounter; yet George (though much enfeebled bjhunger) with a magnanimous refolution fet upon himand notwithftanding the giant was armed with a migh.ty bar of iron, the Chriftian champion dealt him fuelblows, that in fine the giant was forced to furrendeiup his life, and the command of the eaftie into thihands of St- George. iSt. George having now finilhed his work, went in¬to the callle to receive his wages, viz. his dinner whichhe had earned, but for fear the lady fhould miogltpoifbn in his food, he made her firft to tafhe of everydi(b, and having liayed fome time tc refrelh himfeltand his horfe, he left the cafile id keeping of the lady,and went on in purfuit of his travels, palling throughthe reft of Greece and Phrygia, until be came into theconfines of Tartary unto the enchanted garden of Or-mondine, where he efpied a fword enclofed in the en¬chanted rock, when he no fooner put his hand intothe hilt, he drew it out with much eale, when imme¬diately the heavens were overcalt with a thick dark-neft, and the earth Ihook and rumbled like mightyprals of thunder, the winds blew fo impetuoufty thirlftrong oaks were rent in pieces by the fame, and thenthe enchanted garden vaniflied away, and the championpf Wales awaked out of his fleep, where he hadSeviH Champions of Chrijltniom. 15(Jain for feven years. The necromancer, after he hadbriefly declared his forepart life to St. George, gave a;moft terrible groan and died ; whofe head, with thetenchanted Iwor.i, the IJngliih champion gave to St.'David, to carry to the Tartarian court, according;to his promife, wbilft he himfelf travelled towards£<»rbary, wehre our mufe will now attend him.CHAP. VII.\Hovj St. George arrived at Tripolj in Barbary, fromvuhence he Jlole avuay Sabrine the king of Egypt’s daugb~ter from the black moor king, and ho-jj fhe ium knovon tobe a pure virgin by the means of ttuo lions.THE noble St. George having, after many wearyfteps got to the kingdom of Barbary, he thoughtit vi.'m to attempt upon Almidor by force of arm?*feeing he was arended by fo many worthy knights,and yet defiring above all things to have a fight ofihis beloved SabryiC, for whofe fake he had endured fo•long imprifonmenr; therefore he refolved to patchout the lion’s (kin with the fox’s tail, and gam byipoiicy what he could not gain by force; to this end•he exchanged his horfe, armour, and furniture with a•palmer for his gown, ftaff and ferip, and fo accoutred■went dire&ly to the court, where he beheld a numberb>f palmers, waiting in the gate for alms, which thequeen herfelf in perfon daily beftowed, in remem¬brance of the Englifli champion; in deftributing of■vhich, when flte efpied this ftrange palmer, rernem-bring how he re ftnrtbled the princely countenance of>t. George, fhe took him by the hand and led him a-tde from all the company, where he foon made him-elf known to her, who wept for joy of finding himIvhom fhe never expedled to fee again; and after femehort difeourfe of her health and welfare, fhe relatedo him how her fathir had forced her to marry Almi-•lor againrt her will, yet though outwardly flie waslicked to him, yet none but St. George enjoyed hei?*6 The Rtnntuntd Hijiory of theheart, for whofe love ihe had hitherto continued a purervirgin, by virtue of a golden chain fteeped in tyger’sfblood, which fhe wore feven times doubled about'het*neck. Then delivered Ihe to him, his horfe and fwortfflwith which he had formerly encountered the burning}dragon. And now my George, quoth fhe, nothing re3mains bat to free ’me from the power of my forcedhufband, which opportunity invites us unto ; he beingwith tlte whole court'rode out a hunting. St. Georgewillingly condefcended to her motion, fealing the famewith as fweet a kfifs as ever Leander bellowed on He¬ro ; and having gotten the good wiilof an eunuch to gohi ong wuh rhem, floring rhemfelves with provifionsJabeing gallantly mounted, they ported away with allthe fpeed they could make, palling through diversWoods, defart and unknown places, to efcape the pur-fuit of thofe which the black-moor -king would fendafter them.Having travelled thus'for fome few days together,,at laft the beautiful Sabtine began to faint with hun¬ger, which made St. George to leave her under theUnde of a broad fpteading oak, accompanied with theeunuch, whilft he went out in purfuit of fome prey, tcfatisfy their craving appetite; fo it was his fortuneto kt l a deer, which having cut out with his keent!edged fword be brought a haunch thereof along withii.him, to prefent unto his beloved lady: bot a fad acci¬dent happened in his abfeuce, for two hungry lionaranging at»out for prey, came direftly to the oakentree, where thTe two weary'rav,Hers were repoling!themfelves, who with an angry mood ftized upon thei>eunuch, and foon buried him in their hungry entrails,then tore they his heed in pieces, Sabrine all the while.beholding it, expefting herfelf to be the next model jto allay their hunger; but quite contrary to her ex-jpedation with fawning getfures they came unto her,and laid their heads in Iter tender lap, and their quietlyfell fart alleep, at which time St. George returned,who Handing a while in amaze what to do, at laft hethrew down his venifon, and with his trufty fwordfSeven Champions of Chriftendem. 17ll/colon, foon difpatched both the lions. Now Sa-'irine, faith he, i have fufficient proof of thy true vir¬ginity, the nature of thefe hearts being fnch, that theyIvill bow their heads to none but fuch as have keptheir chartities inviolate. Therefore divine Paragon,(lature’s wonder and love’s abiiraft, doubt not but thyjame rtiould refound for love and chartity fo far as Pha¬llus darts his golden rays.Then drerted he the venifon for her which he had‘'tought, and having retrelhed thenafelves they fet for¬ward on their wonted travels, till they came into theiountry of Greece, where they foon had news of greatilts and tournaments fuddenly to be held at the Em-jieror’s court, in honour of his royal nuptials with theEmperor of China’s daughter; the fame whereof hadaimmoned thither all the moft approved and magna¬nimous heroes both in Europe, Afta and Africa, to(ry their manhood, and by noble exercife of arms toInount up into honour’s throne, among the reft theseven chimpions of Chrirtendom arrived there un-.nown to each s,ther, of whofe valiant afts to their1 oumry’s honour we come now to declare.CHAP. VIII.' irw the [even Champions performed valiant exploits in theGrecian court-, where having intelligence of the great pre-1 parations that were made by the Pagans, every Champion, returned to his own country for forces to withjiand them.[Nfushe was the number of the knights aflembled inthe Grecian court, to adventure their chance io-fortune's lottery for _the puichafing of renown, but■he feven champions afiained to fuch favour with theGrecian Emperor, that he appointed them to be bisjwn peculiar champions againrt all comers, each hisi2veral day, ftven days together the appointed timelor holding the jurts. To relate all their fev ial ad-t ewtures, how they foiled each one that came again!i• ' 'I'The Reno’wned Hiflory of thethem, would take too much time for our intended bntvity ; let it fuffice to know, that their prowefs wasUghly admired by the Emperor, as (in reward of theivalour) he beflowed upon them a golden tree wi[feven branches, in the dividing whereof they came tbe known unto each other, which fo rejoiced the)hearts, that they accounted that day as fortunate un'ithem as when firft they were deliver* from the thrachim of the enchantrefs Kalyb. Rut tney had not lorenjoyed the frnirion of each others company when th«arrived at the Emperor’s court; an hundred herald :from an hundred feveral countries, which by the conmand of their princes proclaimed war againlt iChriftendom, in thefe words;“ We the moft puiffjnt Monarch* cf Afii, and /“ frica, do by a general confent of us all, proclai“ open war, fire and fword, with utter deftruftionall the countries and kingdoms of Chriftsndom, ij41 a juft revenge againft them for the injuries fuftain?“ by their feven champions, defiring all the followenof Mahomet, Termagant and Apollo, in this 01“ determination to join with us and take our parts.”The Grecian Emperor being alfo a Pagan, afibciateiwith them, giving commandment to mufter up rfgreateft forces his land could afford. All which whethe feven champions underftood, to cprevent thebloody purpofes, after due confideration had among}themfelves, each one with his betrothed lady departedborne into his own country, there to raife forces (,|withftand the common enemy: St. George into Engl^nd, St. Dennis into France, Sr, James into SpairSr. Anthony into Italy, St. Andrew into Scotland, SPatrick into Ireland, and St. David into Wales; thprofpeft of whofe delightful habitations they had ncbeheld in many years before; where they wfre moroyally entertained according unto their own heartdefire, each feveral prince in his common caufe con^pbuting the utmoft atfiftance he could make, appointinthe bay of Portugal for their great rendezvous ; an8.11 with one genera! confent, nominating St. GeorgSsvtn Cpampions cf ChriffenJom. \t):to be their general, whnfe valiant exploits and honour¬able pe/formance, Ihali be difcourt'ed of ill the chap¬iter follow.CHAP. IX.'Itoiv the ftvtn champion} tf Chriflendim arrived with a^ltheir rreops in the bay ef Pcrtv*al, 'tubere St. George made’ an oration to his foldurj. ? he dij/ention in the Paganarmy; with other things that happened.1 A T the appointed time the Chriftian champions,I ^ wi'h each one a well approved army, met in thebay of Portugal, the number of which conjoined to¬gether, was about five hundred thoufand ; unto whortitbt. George, their appointed general, made this fol-ilowing oration.“ fellow foldier? and kind country-men, whofe!“ valour the world admires and dreads, we are nowj g0'pg into the field of honour and to the work ofj manhood ; the time is now at hand we have long“ looked and prayed for, and your work the robleft“ in the world: pour forth therefore your etmoft“ forces, that ages to come may know what the lance,jl the ax, the fword and the bow can do in the handr of the valiant; fear not the numerous force of our’j enemies, whofe number is rather a burden than anr advantage unto them: but know your caufe is ther beft, the defence of the Cbriflian religion, and yournative countries, which will oppofe all their vaft‘ numbers. Whofoever therefore defires riches, ho-r nours and rewards, know that they are all to be‘ gotten by the overthrow of thofe mifereatrs, who‘ will fly before your valopr, as flocks of fheep be-* fore the greedy wolf.”This foldier.likemra-ion put foch ermrage into the‘jreafls of the ftldiers, that wdth a general voice*lmey cried out, To arms, to arms with the magnanimousMtampion St. George of England. In which gallant re-foiution we will leave them for a while, to relate20 The Renowned Hificry of thewhat happened in the armies of the Pagans, who lik«graftioppers overfpreading a country, met in the lanolof Hungary in fuch multitudes, that had not God frufjtrated their intentions, the Chriftian a'my had beetfjbut a morfel, fcarce fufficient for them for one naealjbut the Almighty-laughed their aflions to fcorn, andby his invincible pewer confounded them in their owtflpradlices ; for being about to eleft a general, each nation was obftinate to h ive their king the perfon thawould command in chief; and fo eager were they it♦ hefe refolutions, that from words they fell to blows:!which ended at laft in a moft defparate fight agaiivfeach other, till the ground was changed from a verdant greeti to a purple hue, and each place ftrewt^with the carcafes of dead bodies. Here might you feia head new lopt of from the fhoulders, with a gafpintmouth, complaining as it were for its reparation fronthe reft of its body : there lay an arm with a han<grafping of a fword, as if it would fight yet in its bolldy’s defence. In another place you might behold ont lwho would run away for danger, but that his legs anfo entangled in his fellows guts he cannot ftir: hen:lay the brains of one, there another with his mourland jaws cutaway, fo that he could not complain oihis own misfortunes. In fine, fuch horror and deftrucjltioa was amohgft them, as would make the heart ban enemy to relent. Thofe that remained of rhibloody enconnter withdrew themfelves into their owiicountries, curfing the time that ever they undertoobfo unlucky an enterprize, and confefling it was in vaiifor them to attempt any thing again!! the ChriftiansGod.It was not long ere the news of this bloody en icounter came to the ears of St. George, and the rel ■of the Chriftian champions; who having received tbintelligence, foon raifed their armies and marched di ‘rcftiy to Barbary againft the bloody king of M roccoto chaftife his treachery committed againft the motrenowned Englilh champion.Seven Champions of Chriftendom. 21CHAP. X.The terrible battle between the Chriftiant and Moors in Bar¬bary, the great overthmiu of the Pagans, and how Al-midor the black king of Morocco, nveti boiled to death in abrazen cauldron of lead and brimftone-jnpHE ChrilHan army under the conduftof the mag-JL nanimousEnglifli champion St. Geurge, being ar¬rived in Barbary, and with their victorious arrn> turn-id ail into ruin wherefoevar they carm?; the noifehereof made Almidor’s guilty confcience to quake,and thereupon he raifed a mighty hoft to withftand:hem, with great courage fell upon the Chriltianr, fo' hat between them enfued a molt terrible battle, eachaide flriving to outdo the other in vidtorious exploits ;(rhe Chriftians in revenge of Almidor’s treachery andjto purchafe renown j the Moors in defence of their):ountry, their wives and children. Three days toge¬ther did this bloody conflidl hold, the night fcarcejiving them time to breath in, but before the fun be¬gan his diurnal race, they returned theii flrength toi more eager encounter; horror, bloodlhed and a-mszement was on their fide, and death rode trium-.phanr ihrouph the whole hoff ; but the valiant Sr.George (whofe courage was never wanting at all ef-fays) being niinded tt. put an end to the fight, fingledtout the Morocco king, betwixt whom and the Erg'ifhchampion was a long and dangerous encounter; butAlmidor not able to withfUnd the mighty pnif-^fance of Sr. George was forced to yield himfelf to hisiimercy, and became his prifoner, which the Moors (ee-ing, piefently would have fled to the chief city, butthe Chiilrians intercepting them, made amoagft themfuch a {laughter, that not one of a hundred efcaped toJteli the lad dtfafier of their misfortunes.The Chriliian army then marched direfl y to Tri¬poly, carrying along with them the wicked Al nidor,to whom (notwithflanding his evil deferts) upon apronuife of forfaking his heathen gods, and to turn to12 'Hhe Rmrujhtd Hijiary cf thebe a Chriftian, inerty was proffered, which refufing|iwith direful e*V:cra.'ions againft the Chtiftian rtligion.ilhe was boiled to death in a brazen cauldron filled witlmlead and b; imftone. at the fight of whcfe death, as,well Pa tail 2 as Chi iftians with a loud voice cried out i;Long live St. George, the victorious champion oftiE: gland, who by his valiant ptowefs hath freed Bar-iba,y from the) miferable thraldom.JHLreup 'ii 'he Morocco peers with bended knees;,came to St Ge ge, pioffering unto Ivim the imperialicrown of B ;rt iiy, and promifed to be chriftned in the ^Chriftian faith ; all which was prefently performed,!by placing he crown upon his head, and abolifhing|Mahometanifm with all the fuperfiitsous rites of that |falfe prophet: whereupon a great alteration fuddenly |,enfued Pagan temples were pulled down, and a Chrif-jtian church erected; infiead of a tyrannical govern-,ment good and wholefome laws were ordained ; peace i,and plenty fiourilhed every where, and a general re- ,juicing was throughout the whole kingdom.But the heroic champions, not minding to fpend ltheir time in the idle bower cf peace, and to let their ,atmour ha: g tufting on the wall; when fo muchac- :tion was to be done in the world ; they therefore fum-,.mooed their foldiers to re-aftume their courage, and to Iput themfelves in an equipage for war. St. Georgeleaving the government of the land in his abfence 10four of the principal peers-of Morocco ; the whole ar¬my marched direftly to Egypt againft king Ptolomy,#who Itad confederated wall Almidor for lending St.George into Perfia.C H A P. XI.Hjxv tbt Chrijlans arrived in and <ivhat happenedla tbe'n there- The tragedy of the Earl c-f Coventry.Miovj :be Egyptian king broke his neck, and how St^ ,(Jeorge rcdtctned his lady front being burned to diath at ,ia /hike. . . IrTTi riE fevan champions of Chriftesdom, with theirX victorious armies, being at rived in Egypt, the/iSeven Champions of ChriftenJout. 2)ippofed prefenrly to have met armed trorps to with-and them; but contrary to their expectation, theynd both cities, towns and villages uninhabited .• they•iror of their coming ftriking fuch an amazement tote inhabitants, that they hid themfelves in the moftDfcure places they could find : wherefore they march-1 to king Ptolemy’s court, iiUending firft to burntat, and then afterwards the reft of the city into cin-:rs. But whilft they were in thefe thoughts, and be-g eeme near thereto, they were met by Ptolomy ands chiefeft peers, ail in mourning, bearing brokensapons, fhiveied lances, and torn ancients,^with ma-^ thouJands of women and children wearing cyprefstaves about their heads, ail with one voice cryingr mercy, and to fpare their country from utter ruin,ng Ptolomy the foremoft of them all, addreflingtmeif to the Chriftian champions, in thefe words,MOSd noble knights and renowned champions,tofe names are enrolled in the book of fame, let myvay hairs move you to pity, and my bended knees thatJver bowed to any till now, caui'e comp;.(lion in you-:it if no mercy be referved for me, let me plead forjty for my poor commons, who are altogether igno-mt of the injuries offned to the Englith champion1 cafioned by the treachery of that wicked Almidor•>rking upon my eafy nature: O let me fall a facri-e tor their fafety, and ftain not your hands in their' tltlefs blood, but fpate them and us and we ftullt only become your fervants, but ferfake the belief3 f3ife ptophets, and henceforth believe in the1 Indians God.' This forrowful lamentation and requ^ft of king Pro!ny. made the heart of the Englith champion to re-it, (o that he not only granted mercy ro'he wholeid, but alfo life to king Ptolomy upon the conditionsTore promifed ; which graci. us grant was fo we Icon -ith to king and commons, that all on a fudden ch¬ippie returned from thrir lurking places to their fer-r habitations. BoneSres were nKide in every placeI: bells rang day and night, and fomuch ba^ueuug,'• . m •2 'The Rtnt'wntd Hiftory of the, &c.dancing and mafquing ivas ufed, as exceeded that whic!)the Trojans made, when Paris returned from Greece;with the conqueft of the Spaitan Queen.But this fun-fhine weather was foon overfhadowewith a cloud of forrow; for in the interim of all theijoy there arrived at the court an Englilh knight wh^thus delivered himfelf to St. George.RENOWNED champion of England, if ever yoexped to fee your beloved lady again, make all the hallye can unto her, who is adjudged to be burned to deat iat a Bake, for murdering the Earl of Coventry ; whby gifts, entreaties, and allurements fought to bereav,:her of her honour, and by luftful ads to Rain her narr iwith infamy, which your virtuous lady always withRood ; but at laft he finding her alone, and renewinbis fuit, with threatning of force upon her denial j IT;with kind words lulled him afleep, and then fheathehis own poinard in his breaft, which on a fudden hi ireaved him of life ; for which fad Ihe is condemned Idie the death aforefaid. Yet this favour granted hethat if within two years fpace a champion be found thj Ifor her fake will venture his life, if he overcome tfchallenger, her life (hall be faved, but if not, then fimuft die.Thefe words ftruck a wonderful aftonilhment anforrow to all that heard them, efp-cially to king Pt«lomy who in a de'fparate mood call himfelf from tf'top of an high pinnacle and broke his neck. Wherupon St. George was immediately proclaimed, and foeafter crowned king of Egypt: and then leaving tBChriftian chaajpipns, he went into England, where 1combated with the Baron of Chefier, that was chanpion againfl the lady Sabrine, whom he overcamebattle, to the great joy of the Englifh knight and hbeloved Sabfine, with whom he afterwards fpent 1:life in much joy and felicity.E l N I S.