A' Wedding-Ring, fit for the Finger;OR, THEHpalve of Divinity on the Sore of Humanity.Laid open in aSERMON,Preached at1 \ Wedding in St. Edmond’s, London.By Mr. WILLIAM SECKER,Late Preacher of the Gofpel.Genesis ii. 18.. And the Lord Gcd faid, it is not good that theMan Jhould be alone; l will make an helpmeet jor kirn.PAISLEY :Printed by J. Neilson.iSi juWEDDING-RING, TIT FOR THE FINGER.genesis ii. 18.And ihe Lord God [aid. It is not good that thman Jhould be alone ; / will make an help meeifor him.UMAN mifery is to divine mercy, as 2black foil to a fparkling diamond, or afable cloud to the fun-beams, Pfalm viii. 4,Lord, what it man that thou art mindful of him lMan is, in his creation, angelical; in hicorruption, diabolical; in his renovation, tbological: In his tranfiation, majeflical.There were four fiver channels in whichthe chryflal ftreams of God’s affection ran tC|man in his creation.x. In his preparation. 2. In his ailimilation.3. In his coronation. 4. In his affociatjon.1. In his preparation. Other creatures re-|ccived the character of their beings by a fimpie fiat; but there was a ccnfultation at hisforming; not for the difficulty, but for the dig¬nity, of the work. The painter is more ftudj-,cus about that which he means to make hismailer-piece.* The four elements were takenout of their elements, to make up the perfec¬tion of man’s complexion : The fire was puriiied, the air was clarified, the water was pur¬ged, the earth was refined. When man wasmoulded, heaven and earth were married : Abody from the one was cfpoufed to a foul fromthe other.2. In his affitfulation. Other creatures wereA Wedding-Ring, fit for the Finger. 3> »ade like themfelves, but man was made like1 Vod, as the wax hath the imprefilon of ther jal upon it. It is admirable to behold fo fair> 1 picture on fuch coarfe canvas, and lo bright; character on fo brown paper.jji| 3, In his coronation. He that made manI nd all the reft, n,'ade him over all the reft ;i fuinthlam Dominion pojmt Deus in tantum do-mnuTn r He was a little lord of a great lord-5 hip : This king was crowned in his cradle.1 4. In his aflociation Society is the folaceaf humanity ; the world would be a defart1 Without a confort.Moft of men’s parts are made in pairs; nowhe that was double in his perfection, muft notjibe fingie in hk condition: And the Lcr Jfaid,hc.1; Thefe words are like the iron-gate, that c-pened to Peter of its own accord ; dividingthemfelves into three parts.I . 1. An introduction. And the Lord God faid. -2. An aftertion, It is not good that man\\Jhould be alone.—3. A determination, J will1 make an help meet lor him.I In the firft, there is a majefty propofed.--In the fecond, there is a malady prefented—-In the third, there is a remedy provided.(Once more, let me put thefe grapes into theprefs.i. The fovereignnefs of the expreflion :And the Lord God faid. 2. T he folitarinefs ofthe condition, It is not good. 3. The fuitable-'j liefs of the provision, 1 will make. Sec.In the firft, there is the worth of veracity.—In the fecond, there is the Want of fociety.'4 -d Weddirg-Rfag, ftt for ihcVinger.—In the third, there is the work of divinity.Of thefe in their order.— And firfl of the firMiift, The fovereignnefs of the expreffion;J!nd the Lord God (aid, Luke i. 70. As heJpake by the viouth of his prophets.—In otherfcriptures, he ufed their mouths^ but in thishe makes ufe of his own ! Thev were the or-:gans, and He the breath ; they the earlyitreams, and He the Fountain. Hflw Hefpoke, it is hard to be fpoken, whether cter- ’nally, internally, or externally, Quomodo nonefl, quod queer emus fed potius quid dixerit in-ielligamos; we are not to enquire into themanner of fpeaking, but to the matter that isfpoken ; which leads me, like a directing ftar,from the fuburbs to the city, from the porchto the palace, from the founder of the mineto the treafure that is in it: It is notIn which you have two things, -1. The fubjecL—a. The predicate. Thef abject, Man alone; The predicate, It is notgood, &c. .J1. The fubject.—Man alone; take this intwo branches, r. As it is limited to one man.'2. As it is lengthened to all men.FIrft, As it is limited to one man : and fo iit is taken particularly : Man for the firft man. JWhen all other creatures had their mates, A-1dam wanted his; though he was the emperor|of the earth, and the admiral of the feas, yet $;in paradife without a companion ; though hewas truly happy, yet he was not fully happy; |though he had enough for his board, yet he jhad not enough for his bed; though he ha .1good, &c.A Wedding-Ring, fit for the "Finger. 5many creatures to ferve him, yet he wanted acreature to folace him ; when he was com¬pounded in creation, he muil be compleatedby conjunclion ; when he had no fm to hurthim, then he mud have a wife to help him.Jt is not oood that man JJoouid be alone.Secondly, As it is lengthened to ail men,and fo it is taken univerfally. Heb, viii. 4.Marriage is honourable unto all. t is not onlywarrantable, but honourable 'i he whole I'ri-nity have confpired together to fet a crown cfglory upon the head of matrimony.1. God the Father; marriage was a treeplanted within the walls of paradife, the Sow¬er first grew in God’s garden-2. i’he Son; marriage is a cryftai glafa,wherein Chriit and the faints do fee each o*ther’s faces.3 1 he Holy Ghofl ; by his overSiadow-ing of the b'eS'ed Virgin.—Well might theworld, when it taw her pregnancy, futpeefhervirginify ; but her matrimonial conditiona grave to that fufpicion; without tins, her in-xu>ccncy had not prevented her infamy ; fheneeded a fliield to defend that cludity abroad,which was kept inviolable at home.Too many that have not worth enough topreierve their v irginity, have yet will enoughto cover their unchaiUcy : Turning the medi¬cine of frailty into the m«ntle of filthinefs.Certainly Sie is mad that cuts (df her leg toget her a crutch, or that venoms her face tov ear a mafic-Fad makes it one of the characters of thole6 d WecUhig-Ring, fu for the Tinker.that fhould cherifh the faith, i 1 ini. iy. 3.I\otto forbear marriage,which is not only law-id, but alfo honourableto forbid which, isdamnably fmfui, and only taught by the influ¬ence of devils.One of the Popes of Rome fprinkles thisunholy and impure drop upon it, Carnes po(-tulhnem Eif immandiium.It is ftrange that fhould be a pollution, whichwas inftituted before corruption ^ or that im¬purity,which was ordained in the iiate of inno-cency j or that they inould make that to be afin,which they make to b? a facramentj ib angeIfupidity ! But a baftard ma^ be laid at thedoor of challity, and a leaden cr«^vn let upona golden head.Bellarmine, fthat mighty Atlas of the papalpower) blows his flunking breath upon it : Bet¬ter were it Jor a prie'ft to defile bimfeif withmany harlots, than tube mar r tea to one wife.--Thefe children of the purple whore prefer mo-nafteries before marriages, a concubine befoiea companion.—1 hey uie too in any women lottheir lulls, to chufe any for their love — 1 hemtables are fo largely fpiead, tiiat they cannotfeed upon one difh. _ . .As for their exalting of a virgin rate, itlike him that commended i uling.when be hadfilled his belly. ... . tWho knows not that virginity u. a pearl ota fparkling luflre • but cannot the one be letup, without the other be thrown down ; Wutno oblation pacify the former, but the oenm-hfiring of the latter ? I ho’ we hud many eae*A Wedding-Ring, Jit for the Finger. 7iiies to the choice of marriage, yet it is rareb find any enemies to the ufe of marriage.They would pick the lock that want the key,l|nd pluck the fruit that do not plant the tree,i! The Hebrews have a faying, that, He is not;| man that hath not a wife. Though theylimb too high a bough, yet it is to be feared1 hat fuch fleflr is full of imperfection that isliot tending to propagation : Though man a-:one may be good, yet. It is not good that manhculd be alone-, which leads me from the fub-(ect to the predicate. It is not good. See.Non bonum, is not in this place as Malum,)ut bonum eft bone [turn, ntiie jeeundum.Now it is not good that man fhould be in aliingle condition upon a threefold confideration1 1. In refpect of fin, which would not elfe: be prevented. Marriage is like water to quenchinjthe fparks oflufi’s fire, 1 Cer. vii. 2. Never-'■ thelcf, to avoid fornication, let every one havehis own wife. Sec. Man needed no fuch pby-:fic when he was in perfect health Tempta-tions may break nature’s heft fence, and lay. its paradife wake ; but a fingle life is a prifi n'icf unruly defires, which is daily attempted toibe broken open.Some, indeed, force themfelves to a Angle• life, merely to avoid the charges of a marriage-i ftate; they had rather fry in the greafe of theirdown' fenfuaiity, than extii g lifii rhofe flames| with an allowed remedy : It is better to many\\ihan to burn ; to be lawfully coupled, than toibe luftfully (corched. • It i- beft feeding theieI flames with ordinate fuel.8 A Wedding-PJng, fit fcr the Finger.2, It is not soad in refoect of mankiiu• ^ ■*which then would not be propagated—TlHoman hiftorian relating the ravifliing of tlSabine women, cxcufed it thus : Res erit uniiftentails populous -vir or urn: Without them mar;|kind would hill from the earth and perifh.--Marriage turns mutability into the image of eternity: It fprings up new buds when the oleare withered : It is a greater honour for a mar|to be the father of one fon, than to be theinaficr of many Servants. Without a wife|children cannot be had lawfully ; withoutgood wife, children cannot be had comforta¬bly Man and woman as the flock and th|1'cion, being grafted in marriage, as trees,,bear-|ing fruit to the world.Augufline fays, this pair is primum par etfundament urn 'omhiuni, &c.— 1 hey are the fir <1link of human fo.itty, to which ail the rcilare joined, hjankind had long, ago decaye-and been like a taper fallen into the Pocket, ifthofe breaches which are made by mortality,were not repaired by matrimony.It is not good, in regard of the church,which would then have been extirpated."Where there is no generation, there can be noregeneration. Nature makes us creatures,before grace makes us Chriitians.If the loins of men had been le(s fruitful, thedeath of Thrift would have been lef» f'uccefsfui.It was a witty quell ion that one put to himthat Paid, “ Marriage fills the earth, but vir-“ ginity Pills the heavens tioiu can the hea~•vcns be full, if the earth be empty ?A Wedding-Ring, fit for the Finger. gjHad Adam lived in innoeency without ma¬trimony, there would have been no fervants ofGod in the church militant, nor no faints withGod in the church triumphant. But I willnot fink this veflel by the over-burJea of it,nor prefs this truth to death, by laying toogreat a load upon its {Iiou'-dcrs.There is one knot which l mull untie be¬fore 1 make a further progrefs, t Cor. vii. uit is good for a man not to touch a woman. Do all the fcriptures proceed out of the famemouth, and do they not all fpeak the fametruth ? The God of unity will not indite dif-cord; and the God of verity cannot affertfalfehood; if good and evil be contraries, howcontrary then are thefe fcriptures? Either Mo-fes miRakes GOD, or Paul miftakes Mcfesabout the point of'marriage.—To which Ilhall give a double anfwer.i. There is a public and private good. Inrefpcct of one man, it may be good not totouch a woman ; but in refpect of all, to It isnot good that man Jhould be ahne.Mofes fpeaks of the ftate of man createdPaul of the ftate of man corrupted : Now thatwhich by inftitution was a mercy, by corrup ¬tion may become a milery ; as pure water istainted by running through a miry channel,oras the fun-beams receive a tinflure by firining•through a coloured glafs. There is no printof e^il in the world, but fin was the ftampthat made it. They that feck nothing butweal in its commifilon, will find nothing butwoe in the conelufion. Which leads me fromio ytf Wedding-Ring, fit Jot lit Finger.the folitarinefs of the condition. Men alone, J'to the fuitablenefs of the provifion, I mili makej:an help meet jor him. In which you have two Iparts:i. The agent: 7 exill make. 2. The ob-ject : A help.The agent, / •wiil make We cannot jbuild a houfe without tools ; but the Trinity 'jis at liberty ; Die verbum tantum. To God’s :omnilcicnce there is nothing invifible; to :God’s omnipotence there is nothing inipo/B- •ble. We work by bands without j but Ha |works without hands. He that made man :meet for help, makes a meet help for him.• Marriages are conferred above, but confum-nuted below, Prov, xviii. 22. Tho’ man wants :fupply, yet man cannot fupply his wants, Jam.j. 17. Every good and perfect gift comes from a- ■hove, Sec. A wife, though ihe be not a per*feet gift, yet fhe is a good gift. Thefe beamsare darted from the Sun of righteoufnefs.Hall thou a foft heart ? It is of God’sbreaking: haft thou a fweet wife ? Ihe is ofGod’s making.Let me draw up this expreftion with a dou¬ble application.1. When thou layell out for fuch a good onearth, look Up to the God of heaven; let himmake thy choice for thee who makes his choiceof thee. Lock above you, before you lookabout you ; nothing makes up the happmefsof a married condition, like the hoiine-s of amortified difpofttion. Account not thefe themeft worthy that arc the moil wealthy. ArtA Wedding-Ring, fit for the Finger. i ithou matched to the Lord; match in the Lord,How happy are fuch marriages, where Chriitis at the wedding ! Let none but thole whohave found favour in God’s eyes, hud favourin yours2. Give God the tribute of yourgratulationfor your good companions. Take heed ofpaying your rent to a wrong landlord : Whenyou tafte of the ft ream, reflect upon the fpringthat feeds it. Now thou haft four eyes for thyfpeculation. four hands for thy operation, fourfeet for thy ambulation, and four (boulders forthy fuftentation. What the fin againft the Ho¬ly Ghoft is in point of Divinity, tl*t is un~tbankfulhefs in point of morality ; an offenceunpardonable. Pity it is but the moon fhoulcibe ever in an edipfe,that v^iil not acknowledgeher beams to be borrowed from the fun. Hethat praifes not the giver, prizes not the gift;and fo 1 pals from the agent to the object, Ahelp.She mu ft be fo much, and no lefs: And fomuch, and no more. Our ribs were not or¬dained to be our rulers. They are not madeof the head, to claim fuperiority; but out ofthe fide, to be content with equality. Theydefert t! * \uthor of nature who invert the or¬der of nature. The woman was made for theman’s comfort, but the man was not made forwoman’s command. Thofe fhoulders afpiretoo high, that content not themfelves with aroom below their head. It is between a manand his wife in the .heufe, as it is between theiun and the moon in the heavens, when the1 2 A Wedding-Ring, fit for the Finger.j*greater light goes down, the leffer gets up:when the one ends in fetting, the other beginsin fhining. I he wife may be a fovereign inher he {band's sbfence, but flic mu it be fub-ject in her hufband’s prefence. As Pharaohiaid to jofeph, fo fhculd the hufband fay tohis wife, Gen. xii, 40. Thru /halt he over myhoufc, and, according to thy word, /bail ail my■people be ruled, only in the throne will I be‘■reater than thou. Ihe body of that houfe-o ' , «hold can never make any good motion, wiiofebones are out of place. The woman tt.uU bea help to the man in thefe four things:i. To his Piety. 2, To his Society. 3,To his Progeny. 4. To his Profperky.To his Piety, by the ferventnefs of her ex¬citation.—To his Society, by the fragrantnefsof her converfation.—To his Progeny, by thefruitfulncfs of her education.— To his Profpe-rity, by the faithful*ef. of her prefervation.1. rfo his Piety, by the ferventnels of herexcitation, 1 Pet. ii. 7.Hufband and wife fhould be as the twomilch kine, which were coupled together tocarry the ark of God ; or as the two cheru-bims, that looked one upon another, and bothupon the mercy-feat; or as the tv * tables ofhone, on each of which was engraven the lavesof God. In fome families married perfonsarelike Jeremiah’s two bafkets of figs, the onevery good, the other very evil; or like fireand water, w'hilft the one is flaming in devo¬tion, the other is ueezung in corruption, thereis a twe-fski hindrance of holinds: if, OnA Wedding-Ring, Jit f:r the Finger. 13the right fide, sdly. On the left. On theright fide, when the vdfe ihonld run in God’sway, the hufband will not let her go: Whenthe fore-horfe in a team will not draw, hewrongs all the reft : When the general of anarmy forbids a march all. the foldiers ftand ftill.Sometimes on the left: How did Solomon’s i-dolatrous wife draw away his heart from hea¬ven ? A finning wife was Satan’s firfl ladder, bywhich he fcaied the walls of paradife, and tookaway the fort-royal of Adam’s heart from him.Thus, fire, that Ihould have been the help ofhis flefh, was the hurt of his faith ; his na¬ture’s under-propper, became his grace’s un¬der-miner : and ihe that fhouid be a crown onthe head is a crofs on the fhoulders —-Thewife is often to the hulband, as the ivy to theoak, which draws away his fap from him.2. A help to his Society, by the fragrant-nefs of her converfatiou.Man is an affectionate creature : Now thewoman’s behaviourfiiould befuch towards thenaan as to require his affection, by increafinghis delectation. That the new-born love maynot be blafied as foon as it is bloffomed; thatit may not be ruined before it be rooted. Afpoufe fhouid carry herfelf fo to her hufband,| as not to difturb his love by her contention,nor;to deftroy his love by her alienation. Huf-band and v. ife fhouid be like two candles burn-ling together, which makes the houfe morelightfome : or like two fragrant flowers boundiup in one nolegay,that augments its fweetnefs;or like two well tuned iaftruments, which14 A YSidding-Ring, fii for the Finger.founding together, make the more melodiousmufic. Hufoand and wife, what are they butas two fprings meeting, and io joining theirftreams that they may make but one current ?It is an unpleanng fpectacie to view any con¬tention in this conjunction.3. To his,Progeny, by the fruitfulnefs ofher education ; that io her children in the flefli jmay be God’s children in the fpirit. 1 Sam. ji. 11. Hannah (lie vows, if the Lord will giveher a fon, to devote him to his fervioe. Afpoufe ihou'.d be more careful of her chil¬dren’s breeding, that five Ihould be fearful ofher children’s bearing. Take heed left thefe "flowers grow in the devil’s garden. Thoughyou bring them out of corruption, yet do notbring them up to damnation. Thofe are notmothers, but monfters, that, whilft they fhouldbe teaching their children the way to heavenwith their lips, are leading them the way tohell with their lives. Good education is the 5beft livery you can give them living: and itis the heft legacy you can leave them dying, jYou let out your cares to make them great; 1O lift up your prayers to make them good ; j 4that before you die from them, you may feeThrift live in them. Whilft thefe twigs aregreen and tender, they fliould be bowed to¬wards God. Children and fervants are in afamily, as paffengers are in a boat ; huihanriand wrife, they are as a pair of oars, to row .y,them to their delired haven. Let thefe fmallipieces of timber be hewed and fquared for the: i, .celcftral building. By putting a feeptre 01 :A Wedding-Ring^ fit for ihe Finger. 15grace into their hands, you will fet a crown ofglory upon their 1 eads.4. A help to his profperity, by her faith¬ful prefervation, being not a wanderer abroad,but a worker at home. One of the ancientsfpeaks excellently ; She hufl not be a field-wife,tike Diana ; nor a thoeet-wfe, like Tamar ; nora window-wife, like fezebel.Phiideas, when he drew a woman, paintedher fitting under a fnail-fhell, that fhe mightimitate that little creature, that goes no fur¬ther than it can carry its houfe upon its head.How many women are there, that are notlabouring bees, but idle drones; that take upa room in the hive, but bring no honey toit; that are moths to their hufband’s eftates;fpending when they fhould be fparing ! As theman’s part is to provide induftriouliy, fo thewoman’s is to prcferve difcreetly; the one muftnot be carclefsly wanting, the other mud notbe carclefsly wading ; the man muft be feek¬ing with diligence ; the woman mud be favingwith prudence. The cock and hen both ferapetogether in the dud-heap, to pick up fome-thing for the little chickens. To wind up thison a (hort button.1. It the woman be a help to the man, thenlet not the man calt dirt upon the woman.Secundus being afked his opinion of a wo¬man, faid, Vinnau fragium, domus tempeflusquieti> tmpedimentum, he. But furely he wasa montier and not a man, fitter for a tombto bury him, than a womb to bear him.Some have dyled them to be like clouds ini6 d Wedding-Ring, fit for the Finger.the fky. Like motes in the fun. Like fnuffsin the candle. Like weeds in the garden.It is not good to play the butcher with thatnaked fex, that hath no arms but for embra¬ces. A preacher fhouid not be filent for thofewho are lilenced from preaching ; becaufe theyare the weaker veflels, ihall they be broken ailto pieces: Thou that fayeii women are evil, itmay be thy exprefilon flows from thy experi¬ence: But l lhail never take that mariner formy pilot, that hath no better knowledge thanthe fpiitting of his own Ihip. Wilt thou con¬demn the frame of all, for the fault of one ?As if it were true logic, becaufe feme are evil,therefore none are good. He hath ill eyes thatdifdains all objccis ; to blaft thy helper, is toblame thy Maker. In a word, we took ourrife from their bowels, and may take oim reftin their bofoms.2. Is the woman to be a help to the man ?Then let the man be a help to the woman.What makes thefe debtors to be fuch Ul pay-maiters.but becaufe they look at what is owingto them, but not to what is owing by them.If thou wouldefthave thy wife’s reverence, lether have thy refpect To force a tear fromthis relation, is that which neither benefits thehufhand’s authority to enjoin, nor the wife’sduty to perform. A wife muft not be fharplydriven, but fweetly drawn. Companion maybend her, butcompu’fion will break her. Huf-band and wife (hould act towards each otherwith confent, not by conftraint. There areA Wedding-Ring, fit for the Finger. 17four things wherein the hufband is a meet helpto the wife.1. In his protection of her from injuries.It is wre!l obferved by one, that the rib ofwhich woman was made, was taken from un¬der a man's arm ; as the ufe of the arm is tokeep off blows from the body, fo the office ofthe hufband is to ward off blows from the wife,'the wife is the hufband’s ireafury, and thebufband fhould be the vrife’s armoury. Indarknefs he fficuid be her fun for direction ; indanger he fhould be her fhieid for protection.2. In his providing for her neceffa; ies. Ihehufband mud communicate maintenance tothe wife, as the head conveys influence to themembers; he mu ft not be a drone, and fhea drudge. A man in a married efiate is like achamberlain in an inn, ti.ere is knocking forhim in every rpom. Many perfons in tills con¬dition,waffe that eftate in luxury,whichIhoufdfuoply their wives’ neceffity : ! hty ha\e nei¬ther the faith of a Chritiian, nor the love of ahufomd : It is a fad fpectacle to lee a virginfold with her own money into fheery, whenfervices are better than marriages; the one re¬ceives wages,whiitt the other buys their fetters.3. !n his coveting of her infirmities. Whowould trample upon a jewel becaufe it is falienin the dirt ? or throw away a heap of wheat fora little chaff? or, defpife a golden wedg» be¬caufe it retains fome drofs ? 1 hefe rofes havefome prickles. Now hufoands fhould fpreada mantle of charity over their wives’ infirmi-. ties. rihey are ill birds that defile their cuni8 A Wedding-Ring, fit for the Finger.nefts. It is a great deal better you fiiou:d fall,than feaft yourfelvgs upon their failings. Somehufbands are never well. longer than they areholding their lingers in their wife’s fores. Suchare like crows, that fatten only upon carrion.Do not put out the candle bccaufe of the fnuff.If the gold be good allow it grains. Huf¬bands and wives fhould provoke one anotherto love ; and they fhould love one another not-withttanding of provocation, lake heed ofpoifoning thofe fprings from whence theftreams of your pieafure flows.4. By his delighting in her fociety. A wifetakes fancluary not only inher hufband’shoefe,but in his heart. The tree of love (houldgrow up in the family, as the tree of life grewup in the garden. 1 hey that chufe their love,fhouid love their choice. ) hey that marry,where they effect not, will effect where theymarry not. Two joined together without love,are but tied together to make one another mi-ferable. And lb I pafs to the laft ftage of thetext, A help viett.A help ; there is her fulnefs; A meet help :there is her tttnefs.The angels were too much above him ; thecreatures were too much below him : lie couldnot ftep up to the former, nor could he ftoopdown to the latter; the one was our of hisreach ; the other was out of his race ; but thewoman is a parallel line drawn equal with him.Meet fhc mutt be in three things.1. in the harmony of her difpofiticn. Huf-bflnd and wife fhouid be like the image in aA Wedding-Ring, fit ficr tie Winger. 19looking-glafs, that anf^-ers in all properties tothe face that ^^nds before h : Or like an echothat returneth the voice it receiveth. Manymarriages are like putting new wine into oldi bottles. An old man is not a meet help for a| young woman : He that lets a grey head upongreen fhoiUders, hath one foot in the grave,I and another in the cradle. Yet how many; times do you fee the fpring of youth weddedto the winter of old age? A young man is(not an help meet for an old woman ; raw fleihiis but an ill plafter for rotten bones, fie thatin his nonage marries a woman in her dot¬age. his lufl hath'one wife in polTdlion, but,1 ins love another in reverfion. ’2 In the heraldry of her condition. Some;:of our J* ropean nations are lb ftr’ct in theirjundions, that it is againft their law's for thecommonalty to couple w'ith the gentryIt was well {aid by one, If the civns be toomuch above her hujband, floe either ruins him bydoer vad expences, or revilet bun visit h her'bajereproaches: If Jhe be too much below her hufihand, either her '‘former condition makes her tooSonerous; or her prejenl mutation makes her tooTfericvs-Marriag’es are ftyied matches; yet amongftdi< fe many that arc married, how tew arc therehat are matched ! Hufbands and wives are likelocks and keys, that rather break than open,jxcept the wards be anfwerable.3. In the hohnefs of their religion. If a-ultery may feparate a noo riage c<>ntraded, i-iolatry may hinder a maii’nge not perieded.2® A Wedding-Ring, fit fcr the Finger.•Cattle of divers kinds were not to enge. der.— 2 Cor vi .4 Be not unfigicJiy yoked. &cIt is dangerous taking her for a wife, who willnet take God far a hufband. It is not meetthat one flefli fliould be of two fpirits. Is therenever a tree thou Siksil in the garden, but thatwhich bears forbidden fruit ?—There are buttwo channels in w hich the ren ainintr f reams{hail run. 1. To thofe iden that want wives,how to chufe them 2. bo thole women whohave hufband, how to uk them.1. l o thefe men that want wives, how tochufe them. Marriage is the tying of fuch aknot, that nothing but death can unloofe.JCommon reafon fuggefts fo much, that wefhoujd be long a doing that which can but on celbe done. Where one dcl'gn has hyen gravdied in the lands of delay, thoulands have Ibeen fplit on the rock of precipitance.' Ralhadventures yield little gain. Opportunities are inot like tides, that when one is pall, another!returns ; but yet take heed of flying without'your wings: you may breed fuch agues in ycuii,bones, that may (hake you to your gravesi. Let me prtferve you from a bad choice:2. Prefent \ ou with a good one. I o preferve1you from a bad choice, take that in threethings: 1. Chule not for beauty. 2. Chufe 1not for dowry. 3. Chufe not for dignity. Hethat looks tor beauty buys a picture. He tha1loves for dow ry, makes a purchafe. He tha'leaps for dignity, matches with a multitude a Jonce. The firft of thefe is too blind to be drrected. Ihe fecond, too bale to be accepteditIM.G^ifrnfi'ps21A Wedding-Ring, fit for the Finger.The third, too bold to be reflected, i. Chufenot by your eyes. — 2. Chufe not by yourhands.—2. Chufe not by your ears.1. Chufe not by your eyes, looking at thebeauty of the perf. n. Not but this is lovelyin a woman, but that this is not all for whicha vroman fhoulcb be loved. He that had thechoice of many faces ftamps this character up¬on them all, Favour is deceitful, and beauty isvain. I he fun is more bright in a clear fky,than when the horizon is clouded ; but if awoman’s flefti hath more of beauty, than herIpirit hath of Chriftianity, it is like poifen infweet-meats, moft dangerous, Gen. vi. 2. Thefans oj God Jaw the daughters of men, that theywere fair. One would have thought that theyIhould rather have looked for grace in theheart, than for beauty in the face. Take careof inning at the faireft figns 5 the fwan hathblack flefh under white feathers.2. Chufe not by your hands, for the boun¬ty of the portion.When Cato’s daughter was afked, why didflie not marry ? She thus replied, She could“ not find the man that loved her perfon above“ her portion.” Men love curious pictures,butthey would have them fet in golden frames.Some are fo degenerate, as to think any goodenough, who have but goods enough, fakeheed, for fometimes the bag and baggage gotogether. The perfon fhoul'd be a figure, andthe portion a cypher, which added to her, ad¬vances the fum, but alone fignifies nothing.When Themiftocles was to marry his daugh-zt A Wedding-Ring, fit for the Finger.ter, two faitors courted her together, the onerich, and a fool; the other wife, but poor ;and being demanded which of the two he hadrather his daughter fhould have ? he anfwered,Malien virum fine pecunia, &c. I had ratherJhe jhould have a man without money, than mo¬ney without a man.3. Chufe not by your ears, for the dignityof her parentage. A good old ftock may nou-rifh a fruitlefs branch. There are many chibdren who are not the blellings, but the ble-miibes of their parents L'hey are nobly de¬fended, but ignobly minded. Such was Au¬relius Antonius, of whom it was faid, That heinjured his country in nothing, but being thefather of fich a child. I here are many lowin their defeents, that are high in their delerts.Such as the cobler’sfon, who grew to be a fa¬mous captain ; when a great perfon upbraidedthe meannefs of his original, My nobility, Jaitbhe, begins with me, but thy nobility ends withthee Piety is a greater honour.than parentage.She is the belt gentlewoman that is heir to herown deferts, and not the degenerate offspringof another’s virtue. To prefent you with agood choice in three things:1. Chufe fuch a one as will be fubject toyour dominion. Take heed of yoking your-deIves with untamed heifers.2. Chufe fuch a one as may fympathize withyou in your affliction. Marriage is juft like afea-voyage; he that enters into this Ihip. multlook to meet with fturms and tempelis, 1 Cox'.v;i. 26. They that marry Jha!I have trouble in'A Wedding-Ring, Jit for tht Finger. 23rihefejh. Flefli axnd trouble are married toge-,ther, v/hether we marry or nor- now a bittercup is too much to be drunk by one mouth.A heavy burden is eafily carried by the afif-tance of other (houlders Hufband and wifefhould neither be proud fieOi, nor dead fieJh.You are fellow-members, therefore, fhouldhave a fellow-feeling. While one Hands fafeon the {here, the other Ihould pity him that istoft on the fea.—Sympathy in fufierlngs islike a dry houfe in a wet day.3. Chufe fuch a one as may be ferviceableto your falvation. A man may think he hatha faint when he hath a devil; but take heed ofa harlot that is falfe to thy bed; and of a hy¬pocrite that is falfe to thy God.adly, I'o thof^ \vo:ncn who have hulbands, how¬to ufe them. In two things;1 Carry yourfcIves towards them with obedi¬ence. Let their power command you, that rheirprsife may commend you- Though you may haveyour hulbandh hearts, yet you muft not have theirheads; as you will -his love, fo you fhould love *his wjiL- fill.tiie hulband leaves commanding, thewife must never leave obeying As his injunctionsmull be lawful, io her {objection mufl. be kiyal. /2. Vv'ith fatthfulnefs. In creation God made notone woman fer many, men, or many women forone. man- Every wife fhould be to her hulban i, asEve was to Adam, a whole world of women : andevery hufband fhould be to his wife, as Adam wasto Eve, a whole world of men When a river is di¬vided into many channels, the main current thtrvcs.To conclude, good fervants are a great bleliing ;good children a greater blefiing ; but a good wife isthe greateft blefling ; and fuch a help, let him feck$ 4 ^ Wedding-Ring, Jit far the Fingtr.for her, that wants one; let him figh for her,that hath,loft one ; let him take pleasure in her that enjoys one.Where there is ^nothing but a picture of virtue,or a few fhadow^’ qualities, that may fubitft with¬out any real excellency, death will hide thorn for e-ver in the night of defpair. The blacknefs of dark-nefs will clofe upon the naked and wandering ghoft ;while its loathfome remains are configned to obli¬vion and putrefaction in the pjifon of the giave, withthe profphct of a worfe doom hereafter. But wherethere is a living image of true goodnefs begun in thisftate, death will deliver it with (afety into the finifli-ing hand of Eternity, to be produced with everymark of honour in the open view of heaven ; whereits now mortal partner, refc'ued from the ciifhonoursof the duft, and brightened into the graces of eternalvouth, fhaii rejoin it in triumph to fuller the pangs |of reparation no more Everlafling J'Ei-tcvan ! what Ia crown of joy will it confer upon the preacher inthat day, if this little fervice fhall be rewarded withthe reflection of having contributed to the falvationor improvement of any of thefe. young perfons whomhe now addrefies ! If ever tbyte ear was open t© myerv, hear me, O Lord ! hear me in their behalf.What cannot thy Spirit perform* perform by theweakefthaivi ? May that fpirit “feal them unto the day jof redemption!**—At thatglorious period “may I meetyou.arnongft the redeemed of the Lordhappy to fcyou fhining wi h immortal fplendcur in “the generalsflemfyly and church of the flrft-born.*J Eranfportcd to j,thinC-fthat I fhall live with you for ever; and join inthe gratulations of your fellow-angds around thethrone of God, when He fhali, in the fight of ailj“ clothe you with the garment of falvation, and cover jyou with the robe of righteoufriefs, as a bridegroom is jdecked with ornaments, -and as a bride is adorned with Iher jewels/’ Amen. FINIS.J. Neilfon, printer.