r h eiComical AdventuresK; *OF THE LATEMr. J ames Spiller ComedianA T / - .EPSOM, in ENGLAND.. A TRUE HUMOROUS TALE.TO WHICH IS ADDED,THE PLEASANT STQRYO FOB ADI AH MOUSETRAP.True humour is a thing fo hard,It merits wifefl: men’s regard;And is fo near aU.y’d io vit,That many have miftooh it for’t, ' •For the’ wit’s e’er fo entertaining,Tis beft with humour tor it’s iiaiag.Ahonvm.GLASGOW,i| Pdated by j. aud M. Robertfoo, Saitmajk«t, 1805.( 2 )NoneJo deaf as thofe 'who'will not hear,A true humourous Tale, and Provertexemplified in the following merr)Story of Mr. James Spillek, Co¬median of facetious Memory.AS the art of true humour is verdifficult to attain, and very rarely met with, I fliail prefent my read-1ers with the following quotation onthat fubjeft from the Spectator.—‘ A-mong all kinds of writings, there arenone in which authors are more aptto mifcarry than in works of humour,*as there is none in which they aremore ambitious to excel. It is not animagination that teems with monfters;an head that is filled with extravagantconceptions, which is capable of fill¬ing the world with diverfions in thisnature ; and yet, if we lobk into theprodudlions of feveral writers, who fetup tor men of humour, what wild ir¬regular fancies, what unnatural dif-The comical Adventures, &c. 3tortions of thoughts do we meet with ?If they fpeak nonfenfe, chcy believethey are talking humour, and whenthey have drawn together a fcheme ofiinconliftant ideas, they are , not ableto read it over to themfelves withoutlaughing. Thefe poor gentlemen en¬deavour to gain themfelves the repu¬tation of wits and humourifts, byfuch monflrous conceptions as almoftqualifies them for Bedlam : Not con-fidering, that humour fliould alwajrsbe under the check of reafon, and thatit requires the dire&ion of the nicefi:judgement, by fo much the more asit indulges itfeif in the mod bound-lefs freedoms. There is a kind ofnature to be obferved in t^is lore ofjeompofition, as well as in all others,and a certain regularity of thoughtwithin, mud difeover the writer to bea man of fenfe^ at the fame time thathe appears altogether given up to ca¬price. For my part, when 1 read thedelirious mirth of an unlkilful au¬thor, l cannot be fo barbarous as todivert myfelf with it; but am ratherapt to pity the man t hat laughs at a-ny rmng he writes* -It is indeed,4 The comical Adventures ofmuch eafier to defcribe what is nohumour, than what it is, and very dif¬ficult to define it any otherwife, thatas Cowly has dons wtr—~bv negatives,rc^r a further definition of humourand a beautiful companion betweentrue humour and falfe humour, 1would recommend my readers to theremaining part of the above fpecula-tion, and ihall proceed to my (lory./In the fummer feafon, Mr.^pillerwas one day riding to Epfom, and irithe evening met wutli an intimate ac¬quaintance of his w'ho wras return-*ing feme three or four miles fromtliat. .tov/n, where (but l know notupon what cccafion, except the races)it was fo prodigiouilv full of compa¬ny, that he could not get accommo¬dation for himfiejf or his horfe uponany account. After fome little cere¬mony had pafied between them, thegentleman afked Mr. Spiller where hewas bound for? Who anfwctfd him,to Epfom.—What, fays bn friend, doyou intend to flay there ail nigh; ?—yYes Sir, replied Mi SpUler, you maybe fuie of that,—Why then, returnedMr. James Spiller Comedian. 5the gentleman, it you do, you multtake beds with you, both tor yourtelfand horl’e too, except you j^re thereprovided for already, or elfe-^pu willfind that vou muft do as I have done,that is to fay, come back again: 1have tryed every place in the town,and there is not one bed to be got forlove or money, as the faying is.Til lay a wager, replied Mr. Spider,that 1 get a lodging both for my feltand my horle too, let the town be e-ver fo full; and that too, in one ofthe heft inns in the town,—Perhaps,faid the gentleman, you may have onealready there befpoke. No indeedi Sir, replied Mr. Spiller, l have not, Ican allure you, nor am I acquaintedwith any perfon that lives in the town,to the bell of my knowledge.—Whythen, fak) the gentleman, I’ll lay youa gallon of claret, that you don’t liein the town to night, 1 mean in a bed;or get your horfe put into a ftable’ there.—Done Sir, faid Mr. Spiller, I'lllay you a gallon of claret that L do;and that too, in one ot the bed inhsI’ in the town*. And if vou will favour6 The comical Adventures ofme with your company, and returnback with me, you ihall fee yourfelfthat I will —No, no, replied the gen¬tleman, HI take your own word forit; and the firlt time we meet in Lon-?don, if we have time, we?ll have ourwager, and a bird to make us merryover the hiflory of this nights adven¬ture;—with all my heart, replied Mr.Spiller: Which fign do you reckon isthe beft, for that Ihall be the place Imean to lodge at ?—After the gentle¬man had fatisfied him in that point,th^ confirmed their wager, and fothey parted.When Mr. Spiller came to the innwhere he was dire&ed by his friend,he rides diredily into the yard, andcalling aloud for the hofller, he foundit quite taken up with other guefls, andevery body in fuch hurry and confu-(ion, that no creature offered to attendhim, or fee for any body that would.With that he alights from his Ro-finante, and leads him directly intoa (table, which was before fo full ofhorfes, that there was not room forMr. James Spillcr Cctoedian. 7him poffibly to lie down, but how¬ever, there he meets the hoftler withwhom he begins his humour, in t-hemanner following. Here, friend, takecare of this horfe, aud do you hear,let him be weii rubbed down.—bir,anfwered the hofller, you fee that theilabies are already quite full; here Isi no room for him; nor have 1 any o-ther place where there is more.—Well,well, laid Spillcr, you may do fo thenif yrou pleafe, rub him down wdfand give him fome hay now, andbout half an hour hence, give h. tquarter of corn and iotne beansfaid the hoftier again, I tell you, he eis no room for him, nor will l t-ike j.-ny charge of him, Ay, do> do. re¬plied Mr. Spiller^ if thou thinkellput fome bran amongft his corr^ wirall my heart. Sir, faid the holller,(roaring as loud as ever he could, im-^agining that he was deaf) 1 tell youthat I’ll not take any charge of yourI horfe; and if you don’t ta ,e him a-way with you, i’ll turn him out oHneftable, and let him go to the devil 4fhe will.——‘Why, thou art an honelt,fenfible, good natur’d young fellow,8 The cofliical Adventures ofreplied Mr. Spiller, and I’ll leave it;entirely to thee: But be lure do notlet my horfe be changed.—Gurfe your,deaf head! quoth the hofller; youmay be d—’d, and your horle too, 1■wilh you were both in hell together.Here Mr. Spiller took not the leaftnotice’ of what the holtler had (aid tohim but left the horfe with him inthe ftable, and goes himfelf dire&lyinto the houfe to get fomething todrink.And the hodler relieving, that ifthe horfe fliould be loft, he mightfwear that he left him in his charge,and might by that means, come uponhim for damages, he therefore tiedhim up to the manger, gave him fomehay, and then ran into the houfe, toacquaint his mi ft refs (for (he was awidow) what itrange and deaf oddfort of a fellow Ihe had got to dealwith. By this time, Mr." Spiller wascome into the kitchen, and had juftcalled for a pint of red wine, but thegood hoftefs being in a hurry, anfwereti him, that die was very forry that£he had no place to aik him to ftt down,■ • r > rMr. James Spiller Comedian. 9in. \Vhen he* not willing to under-ftand her, replied,—’tis all one to me,madam, if your red wine is not goodlet me have a pint of white. Jult ashe had made this contrary anfwer, incomes the hofller, and as his mi It refswas endea/ouring to make Mr. Spillerunderftand what flie had to fay tohim, the hoiller cried out to her,—Ay, d—11 his deaf head, madam, youmay fpend as much of your breath asyou pleafe to uaiji-bait„he_wi 11never hear a word you fay r~ I-havjs,been plagued with him this hour inthe fable about his d—n’d horfe, andthough 1 roared out in his deaf ears asloud as ever I could, till I had almoftfplic my throat, I could not make himuiiderfand me one word, and there’shis horfe fill in the fable, I dare notturn him out, for fear he Should beloft, and the deaf fon of a b—h ftiouldfwear that I took charge of him. Lord! cried the hoftefs, l do not know1 how wo ihall get flmt of him.-——| Troth, madam, anfwered the hoft-, ler, 1 fancy it will be beft to let himI alone, and give him nothing that he1 cal's for to eat or drink, and perhapsw The comical' Adventures ofhat may foon tire him of being here.The hoffer’s advice was thoughtvery p 'O-h! and therefore refolved^onby his miftrefs to be put in execution.So there itood poor Spiller, for fometime, flaring about him, and couldneither get a feat to fit down, nor anything to drink ; but by and by, ob¬serving the fervants to carry out ofthe kitchen a cover of fmoking hotdifhes, he immediately follows theminto a room, where there was abouttwenty gentlemen going to fuppsr.So, as foon as he came into the room,he pulled off his hat, and after hang¬ing it upon a peg, he flood there asmute as a f ill. At length, one of thepentlemen obferving him, and alfothat he was a ft ranger, demanded.—Who does this gentleman want ?But they all fared at him for fometime, but no body claiming any know¬ledge of him, one of them laid to him,Sir, we are here a felecd company, doyou want any body, pray ? Noceremony with me, replied Mr. Spil¬ler, I beg gentlemen, that you willnot difturb yourfeives upon my ?.c-rMrvjames Splller Comedlg't. 11count, I can fit any where. D—nthe fellow! fays another of them, whatdoes he mean? Turn him out of theroom! The fervants being all bufyat his firft coming into tne room, pla¬cing the difhes on the tab\e, and put¬ting things to rights, had not obferv-'ed his coming in before; but nowhearing the gentlemen difputc, theyfoon found the caufe of it, and there¬upon faid one of them,—Lord, gentle¬men ! you will get no fatisfadlion by{wearing and quarreling with him ;for he is fo deaf, that you may fire acannon at his ear, and he will not hearyou. He has been in the kitchen thishour, but nobody can make him un-derftand a word that any body faysto him. They have been ready toknock out his brains feveral times, buthe never underflood them in the leaftjhe is a poor fimple honeft fellowj ldare fay, but what has brought himhere, the Lord knows ; or how you willget him down again, the Lord knows.—Well, well cried one of them, whatdoes it fignify ! ’ fis better to let himflay here, now he is here ; he lookslike an inoffenfive gentleman, and as12 The comical Adventures ofhe is To deaf, we may be fare that hewill not be offended at any thing thatis faicl in company, nor Ihould we getany great honour in throwing himdown ftairs.This fpeech met with fo general anapprobation, that they all fat downto fupper, and let their deaf vifitantquietly partake with them, which wcmay lay, was another point gained.So after they had flipped and had fatdrinking wine and punch, and otherliquors, for about the fpace of an hour,Spilier got up, and with great cere¬mony thanked them all round for their/ f itr ' Ivery good company, and then throwsdown his ihilling upon the table, forhis fliqt. which one of them roar¬ed out as loud as he could bellow.—Z ds, Sir! What do you mean bya fhdliog! \ Ihilling will not do, nortwo p other ! Six (hillings a head willhard la pay the reckoning.Why now, gentlemen, reply’d Mr.S pi Tier, it does nor fgnify making audtitude of words, for upon my loul1 Will be my (hilling, if yon were toMr. James Spiller Comedian. 13talk till to-morrow j therefore no apo¬logies ; gentlemen; I fcorn to fpungeupon any body.—Here after fome ftir,they found it was but in vain to talkwith him, fo they were forced to takethe dulling, and be contented.Some little time after, when Mr.Spil!er was returned to the kitchen, ashis eyes were rolling about, he efpiedone of the maids with a pan of coalsin her hand (at which he inwardlyrejoiced) fo watching hi& opportunity,he (links eafily after her, quite unper¬ceived by the girl; till when fhe was'warming the bed, he fWs to her, What, is this the room that I am tolie inr—\t this unexpected demand,the poor girl, in the utmofl furprize'to fee him there, replied to him, asloud as (he could roar,—No, Sir; thisbed is for two gentlemen who are juftcoming into the room, and has beenhired for them this month. Very well,my dear, faid Mr. Spider, l like itvery w^l, and I hope the fheets arewell aired; but where is my night¬cap ?——\t Hell, quoth the girl, forought I know, and I wifh you were14 The comical Adventures ofthere too! for I am fure you are aworfe plague than the Devil : But,d—n your deafhead! I will have yourneck broke, down fiairs prefently.With that away (he flies, with thewarming-pan in her hand, as fall asIhe could, to inform her mi ft refs andthe two gentlemen, what befel her.—Madam, faid {he, yonder is that curf-ed dunny man, that has plagued thewhole houfe fo, has followed me flilyup flairs in fuch a room, where I wasgoing to warm the bed for the twogentlemen, and I cannot for my lifeget him down again.So away flies her Miflrefs up flairsfull drive, and the twd gentlemen,who had befpoke the room along withher, But when they came to the door,to their great disappointment, theyfound i.t both locked and bolted ; andhe had alfo drawn a great chefl ofdrawers agaiaft it, and placed a greatwainfeot table againfl the drawers,and feveral chairs upon them: So thatthe gentlemen, at this baulk, were ina .terrible paflion, and ftrove to burflMr. James Spiller Comedian. ijT'the door open: But it being a thickoak door, and fo ftrongiy flayed with¬in, it was too mach for them to ac-complifh. So, after they had bounc¬ed againd it half a dozen of times tono purpofe, they ftood to Uften whe¬ther they could learn what he was a-bout; and Spiller at the fame timerightly gueding what their bidden fi-lence was for, lays to himfelf (but loudenough for them to hear him) thepublic inns are fometimes very dan¬gerous places, and a man cannot betoo feenre in them; but the’ l havethe misfortunfi to have loft my hear¬ing, l think they cannot eafily maketheir way through that ftrong door,and that heavy cheft of drawers, andah the other things which l have putagfiinft them ; and if they ihould,they can want nothing but to rob andmurder me, lam lure.When they all heard this, the hoft-efs gravely laid to the two gentlemen.—Gentlemen! Do you hear this! 1am glad von did not force open thedoor, with all my heart for if youhad, vve mi 'ht hatfe been all ruined.i6 The comical Adventures ofWhat could be done with fuch a man ?One of the gentlemen, being a practi¬tioner of the law, ahfwered the hot¬els thus,-—By G—d, madam, you arevery much in the right of it ; for al¬though h? has no right to the roomhe is in* yet, as this is a public inn*and he being in polTeflion of it, tobreak open a door upon him, wouldbe fuch an aflaulr, as I fhould notcare to be concerned in for an hun¬dred pounds' This fpeech of the law¬yer's Toon determined the matter, fordown they all went very quietly, andleft Mr. Spiller fecure enough in hislodgings.In the morning when Mr. Spillercame down, he very complariantly bidthe n all a good morrow, and thev inreturn, all curled him heartily for hisgood humour, and called him a thou-fand bad names ; but he underftand-ing never a word that they laid, it wasall given to the wind. Here, he de-fired half a. pint of white wine madehot, with in egg beat up in it for bisbreakfaft, and then giving the hofllera fliilling for looking after his horfe.Mr. James Spiller Comedian. 17aftd a fldlling to the maid for warm¬ing his bed, he mounted his nag- Andbeing now fettled in his fiddle, hedefrred the good hoflefs to give him aglafs of brandy, which fhe did: Anahe drank to her very good health, ren¬dering her his hearty thanks for hergreat civility. But while fhe floodtalking with him, for that little fpace,having an occafion to break wind, andnot dreaming that he could be at allinformed of the report, and recoverhis hearing fo eafily, fhe never floodupon ceremony, but let fly at once,with the report of a demi-cannon. Atthis vociferations falute, Spiller re¬turned,—Well faid, madam, By hea¬ven that was a rouzer, I hope madamyou are better, I never heard a morebanging f—t in my life.G—d curfe you! cried the hoftefs,is this you that was deaf all night;,and tan hear a f—t in the morning ?You fcoundrel dog! you richly deferveyour brains knocked out.—Here herpaflion was fb great, that fhe could| not contain berfelf; lb while fhe waslooking about for fomething to throw18 Obadiah Moufetrap.at his head, he threw her down till:fixpence for his brandy, turned his^horfe, and, after repeating thefe words,■—“ None, madam, fo deaf, as tholeii who will not hear,”—he rode out ofthe yard as fall; he well could, leav¬ing the whole houle in the greateftalarm imaginable.And he fairly won his wager/andmaintained iiimlelf undiicovered tothe very lad.OBADIAH MOUSETRAP.Quoth Hudibras, the came is clear,-**As thou haft proved by their practice,No argument like matter of fa<£t is;And we are beft of all led toMen’s principles by what they do./ Hud.IT is mofi certain that men’s aJdcnsfpeak their principles the plaineft,and it is not what we lay, but w’hatwe do, that wife mien judge by ; andtherefore the following ftory may bea proper kfTon' for the.unwary to takeObacliah Moufetrap. 19notice of. Ingratiiacle is certainly oneof the worft fins that a man can beguilty of, and in a very fpecial man¬ner, when, it is committed in a breachof trufi, under the perlon who givesthem bread for life. If then, 1 fay,fuch an one fhould be found betray¬ing his ivafter’s trufl, and yieldingup any right of his, for a fordid andpaultry bribe ; if the perfon who hadfeduced him, ihould then fight himwith his own weapons, and trick himof his covenanted reward and unjuffchire, as my reader will find was thecafe in the* following ftory : Such aperfon, I fay, if he Ihould break arti¬cles with him, and bilk him of hisunjuit and criminal expectations, israther to be commended than the o-ther pitied. There is no creature uponthe face of the earth fo guilty of thiscrime, ingratitude, as mankind. E-ven the moft furious of wild beaftsare civilized by gratitude, and witnot hurt their benefaClors and pro¬viders. But man is daily giving uphis father, mother, wife, children,; friend, nay, and his whole country,for a mere trifle. Let every man, thus2.0 Obailiah Moufetrap.guilty^ put the queftion to himself,and then confider it well, whether liethinks, (though he be called to no ac¬count for it in this life) the cries andgroans of fucceeding generations thatlie under the opprefltohs and dill refs,which he before had caufed, andbrought upon them, will have no im-preflion upon his final JUDGE, thatmay move him to reward and punilhhis treafons ? That man who wouldfell his truft, I am pcrfuaded, wouldnot boggle at any thing for gain; thatis, I mean, if he could conceive him-felf fecure from the power of the law;and therefore, the following proceed¬ings of our good friend ObadiahMoufetrap, will, in my opinion, bethe eafier juftified, or at lead excufed.Our friend Obadiah Moufetrap, whowas a Quaker, and a commander ofa trading veffel, was jult returnedfrom a voyage, into the river of Loh-''^kcm, when he had a couple of cuftom-houfe olSeers, as is ufual, immedi¬ately clapt on board him: But it hap¬pened, that two or three days after,-the fiy old fox. had a mind to foundObadiah Moufetrap. 21. the depth of thofe worthy gentlemen'shone fly . whether with any view toferve his ov/n intereft, l Oiall leave myreader to judge of. So one day, as hewas walking upon the deck with them,and talking of indifferent things, hefays to one of them, (we’ll fuppofehim whom he thought propereft tobegin with) friend, wilt thou go intomy cabin, and drink a glafs of rum ?1 have a calk of that wjhich is quiteneat, if thou wilt come and tafte it,and give me thy opinion of it, l fftr.Hbe obliged to thee. The officer com¬plied, and they each of them drank aglafs or two of if ; and which the of¬ficer very much' praiied. The Quakerperceiving his fpirits a little elevated,and believing him in a proper cite forhis purpofe, pulled out of his packeta green purfe, with about fixty guineasin it, fays he, Friend, as far as l can,perceive of thee, thou appeared: to be, a perfon of quick fight and good un-|' derdandmg ; therefore I fhall haveI no occafion to make a multitude ofI words, where I only wilh to fpeak,•I and draight be underdood. Thou| feed this grcea purfe, and what it22 Obafitah Moufetrap.contains ; if thee, and thy brother 'officer will give me thy company forone half hour, only to drink a bowlof this rum, made into what they callpunch, this purfe and all its contentsfhal! be thine, as foon as the bowl isout; fo confider as thou thinkefl pro¬per : If thou ordered me to fill thebowl, Kfhall know what thou mean-ed, and will not only immediatelyobey thee, but will alfo fully makegood my word. The officer here gavehim a node of undcrdanding, and im¬mediately communicated this propo-lal to his trudy companion ; and, af¬ter feme private confabulation, theyagreed to the captain’s propofal ; and ,the former of thefe two, gave him ashe had hinted, a fignai for the bowl ;which was compounded in a minute,Asf foon as this was ordered, the Qua¬ker gave his inftructions to his mateaccordingly, ,and a boat was prefent-ly hauled up dole a-dern, and wasput oif again for fliore, before thebowl was near confumed.Now our honed friend, ObadiahMoufetrap, being informed by hi&Obadiah Moufetrap. 23mate, and thoroughly fatisfled withwhat in this interval had been tranf-afted, produced the green parfe, anddelivered it to the perfon to whom hehad promifed: But, O dire diappoint-ment and confuhon ! Behold the un¬certainty of this world, inilead of realgold, in honed; weighty guineas, im-poftured brafs filled up their room, infialhy counters all. At fight and proofof this, - how did the invenomedtongues of the deceived begin to rave?Their eyes ft ruck fire, and their wholedifappointed frames began to fhakewith refentment. But our g<5od friendObadiah Moufetrap, being afixfted bythe fpirit foon found a way to cooltheir intemperate pafiions ; I perceive,/fays he, my friends, that you havebeen deceived in me, as I have beenin you, and have underftood in earn¬ed, what I meant in jed; is it rea-fonable to imagine, (1 appeal to yourown reflection) that I could be fo weakas to give you a purfe of real gold forthe good fervices of drinking up myproperty ? No, 1 think not, however,as you were both drangers to me, Ihad a mind to make a trial of your24 Obadlah Moufetrap.hohefly. I know chat you wouldthink [ had fume illicit bullnefs tocranial, worthy of giving fuch a pre-ienc, for an opportunity to do it in ;but ye are both miftaken, I neverwronged my king nor my country inmy iife, 1 look upon you both as per-lons that hath infamoufly forfeitedthe truft renofed in you, and are lia¬ble of being feverely purdfhed for it;which, if I was to be as cruel to you(by informing again(l you) as youhave been to me, by fufpecVmg thatI would wrong the King of his due,that muft unavoidably be the cafe ;but l (corn fuch an adtion, though fdefpife your principles. However,my friends 1 would admonifh youto be more hone ft, and more uponyour guard for the future, which willeffectually com pleat my good inten¬tion by this experiment.,FIN I S.GLASGOW,Printed by ]. & M. ROBERTSON,Saitaiarket, 1805,