MOTHER GOOSE'SFAIRY TALES;CONTAINING,I. LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.II. BLUE BEARD.III. CINDERILLAj or, the LliTLE GLA8SLIPPER.IV. MASTER CAT; or, PUSS in BOOTS.V. THE FAIRY.Here Mother Goose in Winter Nights,The old and young she both delights.GLASGOW:Published and Sold Wholesale and Retail, byR. Hutchison & Co. 10, Saltmarket.1817.FAIRY TALES.TALE I.Lilth Red Riding Hood.NCE upon a time, there lived in a certain village,.a little country girl, the prettiest creature everwas seen. Her mother was excessively fond o£her; and her grandmother doated on her much:more- This good woman got made for her a little.:red riding hood- which became the girl so extrerrv-ly well, that every body called her Little HidingOne day, her mother having made some custards,,said to her, “ Go, my dear, and see how thy grand¬mamma does, for I hear she has been very ill, carryher a custard and this little pot of butter.” LittleRed Riding Hood sets out immediately to go to Itergrand-mother, who lived in another village. As shewas going through the wood, she met with GafferWolf, who had a great mind to eat her up, but hedurst not, because of some faggot-makers hard byin the forest. He asked her, whither she was going?The poor child who did not know that it wts dang--erous to stay, and hear a wolf talk, said, “ I am go-^ing to see my grand-mamma, and carry her a cushtard, and a little pot of butter from my mamma.’']Does she live far off?” said the wolf. “O! ay,‘!answered Little Red Riding Hood, it is beyond thatmill you see there, at the first house in the village.”’“Well, said the wclf, and I’ll go and see her too;I’ll go this way, and go you that, and we shall seewho will be there soonest.”The wolf beg?n to run as fast as he could, takingthe nearest way, and-the little girl went by thatfarthest about, diverting herself m gathering nutS|Hood.FAIRY TALES.3running after butterflies, and making nose-gavs ofsuch little flowers as she met with. I'he -wolf wasnot long before he got to the old woman’s house.He knocked at the door, tap, tap. “ Who’s theref”“ Your grandchild, Little Red Riding Hood, (re¬plied the wolf, counterfeiting her voice) who hasbrought you a custard, and a little pot of butter sentyou by my mamma.”The good grandmother, who was in bed, becauseshe found herself somewhat ill, cried out, “Pull thebobin, and the latch will go up.” The wolf pulledthe bobin, and the door opened, and then presentlyhe fell upon the good woman, and eat her up in amoment; for it was three days that he had nottouched a bit. He then shut the door, and wentinto the grandmother’s bed, expecting Little RedRiding Hood, who came sometime afterward, andknocked at the door, tap, tap: “Who’s there?”- Lit¬tle Red Riding Hood, hearing the big voice of tnewolf, was at first afraid; but believing her grand¬mother had got a cold, and wa- hoarse, answered,“’i’is your grandchild Little Red Riding Hood,who has brought you a custard and a little pot ofbutter, mamma sends you.” The wolf cried out toher, softening his voice as much as he could, “ Pullthe bobin, and the latch will go up.” Little RedRiding Hood pulled the bobin and the uoor opened.The wolf, seeing her come in, said to her, hidinghimself under the bed-clothes, “ Put the custard andpot of butter upo- the stool, and come and lie downby me ” Little Red Riding Hood undressed her¬self, and went into bed; where being greatly amaz¬ed to see her grandmother in her night clothes, saidto her, “ Grandmamma, svhat great arms you havegot! That is the better to hug thee, my dear. Grand¬mamma, what great legs you have got! That is torun the better, my child. .Grandmamma, whatL4FAIRY TALES.great ears yon have got! That is to hear the better,my child. Grandmamma, what great eyes you havegot! It is to see the better, my child. Grandmamma,what great teeth you have got! That is to eat thee up.”And saying these words, this wicked wolf fell uponpoor Little Red Riding Hood, and eat her all up.HERE was a man who had fine houses, both intown and country, a deal of silver and goldplate, embroidered furniture and coaches, gilded allover with gold. But this man had the misfortune tohave a blue beard, which made him so frightfully uglythat all the women and girls ran away from him.One of his neighbours, a lady of quality, had twodaughters, who were perfect beauties He desiredof her one of them in marriage, leaving to her thechoice which of the two she would bestow upon him.They would neither of them have him, and sent himbackwards and forwards from one to another, beingnot able to bear the thoughts of marrying a manwho had a blue beard. And what besides gave themdisgust and aversion, was, his having already been ■married to several wives, and nobody ever knewwhat became of them.Blue Beard, to engage their affection, took them,with the lady, their mother, and three or four ladiesof .their acquaintance, with other young people ofthe neighbourhood to one of his country seats,where they staid a whole week. There was nothingthen to be seen bur parties of pleasure, hunting, fish¬ing, dancing, mirrh, and feasting. Nobody went tobed, but all passed the night in rallying and jokingwith each other: in shotr, every thing so well suc¬ceeded, that the youngest daughter began to thinkTALE II.Bh L'E BEARD.FAIRYTALES. 5that the master of the house’s beard was not so veryblue, and that he was a mighty civil gentleman.So soon as they returned home, the marriage wasconcluded. About a month afterwards, Blue Beardtold his wife that he was obliged to take a countryjourney for six weeks at least, about affairs of verygreat consequence, desiring her to divert herself mhis absence, send for her triends and acquaintancecarry them into the country, if she pleased, andmake good cheer wherever she was: “Here- said he,are the keys of the two great wardrobes wherein II have my best furniture; these are of my silver andipy gold plate, which is not every day in use; theseopen my strong boxes, which hold my money bothgold and silver; these my caskets of jewels; and thisis the master key of all my apartments; but for thislittle one here, it is the key of the closet at the endof the great gallery, on the ground floor. Openthem all; go into every one except that little closet,which I forbid you, and forbid it in such a manner,that if you open it, there is nothing but what youmay expect from my just anger and resentment.”She promised to observe very exactly what he hadordered; when he, after having embraced her, gotinto his coach, and proceeded on his journey.Her neighbours and good friends did not stay tobe sent for by the new married lady, so great was: their impatience to see all the rich furniture of herhouse, not daring to come while her husband wasI there, because of his blue beard which frightenedthem. They ran through all the rooms, closets, andwardrobes, which were all so rich and fine, that theyseemed to surpass one another. After that theywent up into the two great rooms, where were thebest and richest furniture, they could not sufficientlyadmire the number and beauty of the tapestry beds,j couches, cabinets, stands, tables, and looking-glasst ■6FAIRY TALES.ir which you might see yourself from head to foot;some of them were framed with ghss. others withsilver, plain and gilded, the finest and most magni¬ficent were ever seen. They ceased not to extoland envy the happiness of their friend, who, in themem time, no way diverted herself in looking uponthe^e rich things, because of the impatience she hadto go and open the closer or the ground floor. Shewas so much pressed by her curiosity, that withoutconsidering the uncivility of leaving her company,she went down a little back stair case, and with suchexcessive haste, that she had twice or thrice like tohave broke her mckBeing come to the closet door she made a stop forsome time, thinking upon her husband’s orders, andconsidering what unhappiness might attend her if shedisobeyed; >ut the temptation was so strong -he couldnot overcome it: Site took then the little key, andopened it trembl ig: but could not at first see anythit g plainly, because the windows were shut. Insome moments she began to perceive that the floorwas aii covered with clotted blood, on which laythe bodies of several dead women ranged against thewalls, tThese were all the wives whom Blue Beardhad married and murdered one after another.)She thought she would have died for lear: and thekey which she pulled out of the lock, fell out of herhand.After having somewhat recovered her surprise,she took up the key, locked the door, and went upstairs to recover herself; but she couldnot, so muchwas she frightened Having observed that the keyof the closet was stained with blood, she tried twocr three times to wipe it off, but the blood wouldnot come out; in vain did she wash it, and even rubit with soap and sand, the blood still remained, forthis key was a Fairy, and she could never make it/quite cleans when the blood was gone cfl from oneside it came again on the other.Blue Beard returned from his journey the sameevening, and said. “ he had received letters uponthe road, informing him, that the affair he wentabout was ended to his advantage.” His wife didall she could to convince him she was extremelyglad of his speedy return. Next morning he askedfor the keys, which she gave him, but wdth such atrembling hand that he easily guessed what hadhappened. “What, said he, is not the key of mycloset arnonrr the rest r” “ I must certainiv, answeredshe, hive left it upon the table.” “ Fail not, saidBlue Beard, to brine it me presently.”After several goings backwards and forwards,she was forced to bring him the key, Blue Beard,having very attentively considered it, said to hiswife, “ How comes this blood upon the key?”“ I do not know,’’ cried the poor woman, palerthan death. “ You do know, replied Blue Beard,I very well know, you was resolved to go into thecloset, was you not ? Mighty well, Madam; you shallgo in, and take your place among the ladies you sawthe' e.”Upon this she threw herself at her husband’sfeet, and begged his pardon, with all the signs ofa true repentance, and that she should never morebe disobedient. She would have melted a rock, sobeautiful and sorrowful was she, but Blue Beardhad a heart harder than any rock! “ You must die,madam, said he, and that presently ” “ Since Imust die, answered she, ^looking on him with hereyes all bathed in tears,) give me some little timeto say my prayers.” “I give, replied Blue Beard,half a quarter of an hour, but not one momentlonger.”When she was alone she called cut to her sister,8FAIRY TALES.and sa!d to her, “Sister Anne, (for that was hername) go up, I beg you, upon the tower, and lookif my brothers are not coming: they promised me,that they would come to-day; and if you see themgive them a sign to make haste.” Her sister Annewent up upon the top of the tower, and the poorafflicted wife, called from time to time, “ Anne,sis*er Anne, do you see any one coming'” and sisterAnne said, “ I see nothing but the sun, which makesa dust, and the grass which locks green.” In themean while, Blue Beard, holding a great scymitar inhis hand, cried out as loud as he could, “ Come downinstantly, or 1 shall come up to you.” “ One mo¬ment longer, if you please,” said his wife; and thenshe cried out very softly, “ Anne, sister Anne, dostthou sec any body coming? and sister Anne answer¬ed, “ I see nothing but the sun, which makes a dust,and the grass looking green.” “ Come down quick¬ly, cried B'ue Beard, or I will come up to you.”“I am coming,” answered his wife; and then shecried, “ Anne, sister Anve, dost thou see any onecoming?” “ I see, replied her sister Anne, a greatdust which comes from this side here."’ “ Are theymy brothers?” “ Alas no, my sister, I see a fi'ckof sheep ” “ Will you not come down,” cried BlueBeard. “ One moment longer, said his wife; andthen she cried out, “ Anne, sister Anne, dost thousee nobody coming.” “ I see two horsemen coming,but they are yet a great way oft.” “ God be praised,replied the poor wife joyfully, they are my brothers; .I am making them a sign as well as I can, for themto make haste-” Then Blue Beard bawled out soloud that he made the whole house tremble-The distressed wife came down and threw herselfat his feet all in tears, with her hair all about hershoulders. “ This signifies nothing, said Blue Beard,you must die.” Then taking hold cf her hair with9FAIRY TALES.one hand, and lifting up his scymitar with the other,he was going to take off her head. The poor gen¬tlewoman, turning about to him, and looking at himwith longing eyes, desired him to afford her one littlemoment to recollect herself. “No, no, said he, recom¬mend thyself to God;’and was just ready to strike.  At this very instant there was such a loudknocking at the gate, that Blue Beard made a sud¬den stop. The gate was opened and presently en¬tered two horsemen, who, drawing their swords, randirectly to Blue Beard. He knew them to be hiswife’s brothers, one a dragoon, the other a musque-teer, so that he ran away immediately to save him¬self; but the two brothers pursued so close that theyovertook him before he could get to the steps of theporch, when they ran their swords through his body,and left him dead-The poor wife was almost as dead as her hus¬band, and had not strength enough to rise and wel¬come her brothers. Blue Beard had no heirs, andso his wife became mistress of all his estate. Shemade use of one part of it to marry her sister Anneto a young gentleman who had courted her a longwhile; another part to buy captains’ commissions forher brother?, and the rest to marry herself to a veryworthy gentleman, who made her forget the ill timeshe had passed with Blue Beard.TALE III.Cinderilla; or, The Little Glass Slipper.rpHERE was a gentleman who married for hissecond wife the proudest and most haughtywoman ever seen. She had, by a former husband,two daughters of her own, that were indeed exactlylike her in all things. He had likewise, by anotherwife, a young daughter, but of unparelled goodnessTOFAIRY TALES.of temper, which she took from her mother whowas the; best creature in the world.No sooner were the ceremonies of the weddingover, than the mother-in-law began to show herselfin her colours. She could not bear the good quali¬ties of this pretty girl; and the less because they,made her own daughters appear the more odious.She employed her in the meanest work in the house;she scoured the dishes, tables, &c. and rubbed ma¬dam’s chamber, and those of the misses her daugh¬ters; she lay up in a sorry garret, upon a wretchedstraw-bed, while her sisters lay in fine rooms, withfloors all in-laid, upon beds of the very newest fash¬ions, and where they had looking-glasses so largethat they might see themselves at their full length,from head to foot. {'he poor girl bore all patiently,and dared not to tell her father, who would have :rattled her off, for his wife governed him entirely. .When she had done her work, she went into thechimney-corner, and sat down among the cindersand ashes, which made her commonly be calledCinder-breech, but the youngest who was not sorude and uncivil as the eldest, called her Cinderilla. :However Cinderilla, notwithstanding her mean ap¬parel, was an hundred times handsomer than her sis¬ters, though they were always dressed very richly.It happened that the king’s son gave a ball, andinvited all persons of fashion to it. Our young'misses were also invited; for they cut a very grandfigure among the quality. They were mightily de¬lighted at this invitation, and wonderfully busy in jclausing out such gowns petticoats, and head clothesas might best become them. This was a new trou¬ble to Cinderilla; for it was she who ironed her sis- ;ters’ linen, and plaited their ruffles; they talked all :day long of nothing but how they should be dressed:“ For my part, said the eldest, I will wear my redFAIRY TALES.]1yelvit suit, with French trimming.” “ And I, saidthe youngest, shall only have my usual petticoat,but then to make amends for that, I will put on my-go!d flowered mantua, and my diamond stomacher,which is far from being the most ordinary one infhe world.” They sent for the best tire-woman theycould get to make up their head dresses, and adjusttheir double-pinners, and they had their red brushesand patches from Madamoiselie de la Poche.Cinderilla was likewise called up to them to beconsulted in all those matters, for she h V excellentnotions, and advised them always for the best; nay,and offered her service to dress their heads, whichthey willingly accepted. As she was doing this,they said to her, Cinderilla, would you not be gladto go to the ball? Ah! said she, you only jeer me, *it is not for such as I am to go thither. I'hou artin the right of it, replied they; it would make thepeople laugh to see a Cinder-breech at a ball. Anyone but Cinderilla would have dressed their headsawry; but she was good, and dressed them perfect¬ly well. They were almost two days without eat¬ing, being so much transported with joy. Theybroke above a dozen of laces, in trying to be lac¬ed up close, that they might have a fine slendershape, and they were continually at their looking-glass. At last the happy day came, they went tocourt, and Cinderilla looked after them as long asshe could, and when she lost sign of them, she fella-crying.Her godmother, who saw her ail in tears, asked,her what was the matter? I wish I could—I wishI cou—Id; site was not able to speak the rest, beinginterrupted by her tears and sobbing. Her god¬mother, who was a Fairy, said to her, Thou wishestthou couldst go to the ball: is it not so? Y—es,cried Cinderilla, with a great sigh. Well, said her12FAIRY TALES.godmother, be but a good girl, and I will contrivethat you shall go. Then she took her into her cham¬ber, and said to her, Run into the garden, and bringme a pompion. Cinderilla went immediately togather the finest she could get, and brought it toher godmother, not being able to imagine how thispompion could make her go to the ball. Her god¬mother scooped out all the inside of it, having leftnothing but the rind, which done, she struck it withher wand, and the pompion was instantly turnedinto a finrs-coach gilded all over with gold.She then went and looked into the mouse-tr.ap,where she found six mice all alive, and ordered Cin¬derilla to lift up a little the trap-door, when givingeach mouse as it went out a little tap with her wand,the mouse was that moment turned into a fair horse,which altogether made a very fine set of six horses,of a beautiful mouse-coloured, dapple grey. Beingat a loss-for a coachman, “ I will go and see, saysCinderilla, if there be never a rat in the rat-trap, wemay make a coachman of him.” “ Fhou art in theright, replied her godmother, go and look.” Cin¬derilla brought the trap to her, and in it there werethree huge rats. The Fairy made choice of one of thethree which had the large t beard,and having touchedhim with her wand, he was turned into a fat jollycoachman, who had the smartest whiskers and eyesever beheld.After that, she said to her, Go again into the gar¬den, and you will find six lizards behind the wateringpot; bring them to me. She had no sooner done sobut her godmother turned them into six footmen,who skipped up immediately behind the coach, withtheir liveries all bedaubed with gold and silver, andclung as close behind each other, as if they had donenothing else their whole lives The Fairy then sa;dto Cinderilla, 'Well, you see here an equipage, fit toFAIRY TALES.13go to the ball with: are you pleased with it ? O yes,cried she, but must I go thither as I am, in thesepoisonous nasty rags? Her godmother only touchedher with her wand, and at the same instant, herclothes were turned into cloth of gold and silver,all beset with jewels. This done, she gave her a pairof glass slippers, the prettiest in the whole world.Being thus decked out, she got up into her coach;but her godmother, above all things, commandedher not to stay till after midnight, telling her at thesame time, that if she stayed at the ball one momentlonger her coach would be a pompion again, herhorses mice, her coachman a rat, her footmen lizards,and her clothes become just as they were before.She promised her godmother, she would not fail ofleaving the ball before midnight, and then away shedrives, scarce able to contain herself for joy. Theking’s son, who was told, that a great princess, whomno body knew, was come, ran out to receive her, hegave her his hand as she alighted out of the coach,and led her into the ball among all the company.There was immediately a profound silence, they leftoff dancing, and the music ceased to play, so atten¬tive was every one to contemplate the beauties ofthis new comer. Nothing was then heard but con¬fused noise of, Ah! how handsome she is! ah! howhandsome she is! The king himself, old as he was,could net help ogling her, and telling the queen| softly, that it was a long time since he had seen sobeautiful and lovely a creature. All the ladies werebusied in considering her clothes and head-dress,that they might have some made the next day afterthe same pattern, providing they could meet withso fine materials, and as able hands to make them.The king’s son conducted her to the most hon¬ourable seat, and afterwards took her out to dance•yith him: She danced so very gracefully, that they14-FAIRY TALES.all more and more admired her. A fine collationwas served up, whereof the young prince eat nota morsel, so intently was he busied in gazing on her.She went and sat down by her sisters, shewing them'a thousand civilities, giving them part of the oran¬ges and citrons which the prince had presented her ■with: which very much surprised them, for theydid not know her. While Cinderilla was thus a-musing her sisters, she heard the clock strike eleven ,and three quarters, whereupon she immediatelymade a courtesy to the company, and hasted awayas fast as she could.Being got home, she ran to seek out her god¬mother, and after having thanked her, she said, shecould net but heartily wish she might go next dayto the b.ll, because the king’s son had desired her.As she was eagerly telling her godmother whateverhad passed at the ball, her two sisters knocked at thedoor, which Cinderilla ran and opened. Flow longyou have staid, cried she, gaping, rubbing her eyes,and stretching herself as if she had just awaked outof her sleep; she had not, however, any manner ofinclination to sleep since they went from home. “If :thou hadst been at the ball, says one of her sisters,thou wouldst not have been tired with it; therecame thither the finest princess, the most beautifulever was seen with mortal eyes, she shewed us athousand civilities, and gave us oranges and citrons.Cinderilla seemed very in different in the matter, in¬deed she asked the name of that princess; but theytold her, “ they did not know it, and that the king’sson was uneasy on her account, and would give nilthe world to know where she was.” At this Cinder-ilia smiling replied, “ bhe must be very beautifulindeed; O! how happy you have been; could I notsee her! Ah! dear Miss Charlotte, do lend me youryellow suit of clothes which you wear every day.”15FAIRY TALES.“ Ay, to be sure!'’ cried Miss Charlotte, “lend myclothes to such a dirty Cinder-breech as thou art;who’s the fool then?” Cinderilla indeed expectedsome such answer, and was very glad of the refusal;for she would have been sadly put to it if her sisterhad lent her what she asked for jestingly.Hie next day, the two sisters were at the ball,and scr was Cinderilla, but dressed more magnifi¬cently than before. The king’s son was always byher, and never ceased his compliments and amorousspeeches to her; to whom all this was so far from beingtiresome, that she quite forgot what her godmotherhad recommended to her, so she at last counted theclock striking twelve, when she took it to be no morethan eleven: she then rose up and fled as nimble asa deer. The prince followed, but could not overtakeher. She left behind her one of her glass slippers,which the prince took up most carefully. She gethome, but quite out of breath, without coach or foot¬man, and in the nasty old clothes, having nothingleft of all her finery, but one of the little slippers,fellow to that she dropped. The guards at the pa¬lace gate were asked, if they had seen a princess goout? who said, they had seen no body go out, but ayoung girl, very meanly dressed, who had more theair of a poor country wench, than a gentlewoman.When the two sisters returned from the ball,Cinderilla asked them, if they had been well divert¬ed ; and if the fine lady had been there ? They toldher, Yes; but that she hurried away immediatelywhen the clock struck twelve, and with so muchhaste that she dropped one of her little glass slippers,the prettiest in the world, and which the king’s sonhad taken up; that he had done nothing but lookedat her all the time of the ball, and that most cer¬tainly he was very much in love with the beautifulperson that owned the little slipper.A16IFAIRY TALES.What they said was very true; for a few days after,the king’s son caused it to be proclaimed by soundof trumpets that he would marry her whose footthis slipper would just fit. They whom he employ¬ed began to try it upon the princesses, then the duch¬esses, and all the court, but in vain; it was broughtto the two sisters, who did all they possibly couldto thrust their feet into the slipper, but they couldnot effect it. Cinderilla, who saw all this, and knewher slipper, said to them, laughing, Let me see if itwill not fit me. Her sisters burst out a-laughing,and began to banter her. The gentleman who wassent to try the slipper, looked earnestly at Cinderilla,and finding her very handsome, said, It was but justthat she should try, and that he had orders to makeevery one make trial. He obliged Cinderilla to sitdown, and putting the slipper to her foot, he foundit went in very easily, and fitted her as if it had beenmade of wax. The astonishment her two sisterswere in was excessively great, but still greater whenCinderilla pulled out of her pocket the other slipper,and put it on her foot. Thereupon in came hergodmother, who having touched, with her wand,Cinderilla’s clothes, made them richer, and moremagnificent than any of those she had before.And now her two sisters found her to be thatfine beautiful lady whom they had seen at the ball.They threw themselves at her feet, to beg pardonfor the ill treatment they made her undergo. Cin¬derilla took them up, and, as she embraced, cried,That she forgave them with all her heart, and de¬sired them always'to love her. She was conductedto the young prince, dressed as she was, he thoughther more charming than ever, and, a few days aftermarried her. Cinderilla, who was no less good thanbeautiful, gave her two sisters lodging in the palace,and matched them with two great lords of the court.FAIRY TALES.17TALE IV.The Master Cat; nr, Puss in Boots.SPHERE was a miller, who left no more estate tothe three sons he had, than his mill, his ass, andhis cat The partition was soon mace, neither thescrivener nor attorney was sent for. Thev wouldsoon have eaten up all the patrimony. The eldesthad the mill, the second the ass, and the youngestnothing but the cat.The poor young fellow was quite comfortless athaving so poor a lot. “ My brothers,” said he- ‘ mayget thuir h.ving handsomely enough by joining theirstocks together, but for my part when I have eatenup my cat, and made me a muff of his skin, I mustdie with hunger ” The cat, who heard all this, yetmade as if he did not, said to him with a grave andserious air. “ Do not thus afflict yourself, my goodmaster; you have nothing else to do, but give me ahag, and get a pair of boots made for me, that I mayscamper through the dirt and the brambles, and youshall see that you have not so bad a portion as youimagine.” Though the cat’s master did not buildvery much upon what he said, he had, however, of¬ten seen him play a great many cunning tricks tocatch rats and mice; as when he used to hang by theheels, or hid himself in the meal, and make as if hewere dead; so that he did not altogether despair ofhis affording him some help in his miserable condition.When the cat had what he asked for, he bootedhimself very gallantly; and putting the bag about hisneck, held the strings of it in his two fore-paws, andwent into a warren where was great abundance ofrabbits. He put bran and sow-thistles into the bag>18FAIRY TALES.and stretched himself out at length, as if he had beendead, he waited for some young rabbits not yet ac¬quainted with the deceits of the world, to come andrummage his bag for what he had put into it.Scarce was he lain down, but he had what hewanted; a rash and foolish young rabbit jumped'intohis bag, and Monsieur Puss immediately drawingclose the strings, took and killed him without pity,proud of his prey, he went with it into the palace,and asked to speak with his majesty, he was shewedup stairs into the king’s apartment, and making a lowreverence, said to him; ‘-I have brought you, Sire,a rabbit of the warren, which my noble lord, heMarquis of Carabas (for that was the title which Pusswas pleased to give his master) has commanded meto present to your majesty, from him.” “ Tell thymaster," s 'id the king, “ That 1 thank him, and hedoes me a great deal of pleasure.”Another time he went and hid himself amongstsome standing corn, holding still his bag open; andwhen a brace of partridges run into it, he drew thestrings, and so caught them both. He went andmade a present of these to the king, as he had donebefore of the rabbit which he took in the watren.The king in like manner recehed the partridgeswith great pleasure, and ordered him some moneyto drink.The cat continued for two or three months, thusto carry his majesty from time to time, game of hismaster’s taking. One hay in particular, when heknew for certain the king was to take the a;r alongthe river side, with his daughter, the most beauti¬ful princess m the world, he said to his master, “ Ifyou will follow my advice, your fortune is made;,you have nothing else to do, but go and wash your¬self in the river in that part I shall shew you, andleave the rest to me." The Marquis of Car a hasFAIRY TALES. 19tHd what the cat advised, without knowing why orwherefore.While he~Was washing, the king passed by, andthe cat began to cry out as loud as he could, “ Help,help, my Lord Marquis of Carabas is going to bedrowned. At this noise the king put his head outof the coach-window, and finding it was the tat whohad so often brought him such good game, he com¬manded the guards to run immediately to the assis¬tance of his lordship the Marquis of Carabas.While 'hey were drawing the poor Maiquis outof the river, the cat came up to the coach and toM theking, that, while his master was washing there cameby some rogttes who went of w;th his clothes, thoughhe had cried cut, Thieves, thieves, several times, asloud as he could, '1 his cunning car had hiddenthem under a great none The king immediatelycommanded the officers of his war.irobe to run andfetch one of his best subs for the Lord Marquis ofCarabas.The king caressed him after a very extraordinarymanner, and as the fine clothes he had given him,extremely set off his good mein, (for he was wellmade and very handsome in his person) the king’sdaughter took a secret iiclination to him, and theMarquis of Carabas had 1.0 sooner cast two or threerespectful and tender glances, but she fell in lovewith him to distraction. The king would have himcome into his coach and take a part of the airing.The cat overjoyed to see his project begin to suc¬ceed, marched on before, and meeting with somecountrymen who were mowing a meadow, he saidto them, “ Good people if you do not tell the king,that the meadow you mow belongs to the Marquisof Carabas, you shall be chopped as small as herbsfor the pot.’’The king did cot fail to ask the mowers, to whom20FAIRY TALES.the meadow they were mowing belonged P “ Tamy Lord Marquis of Carabas,” answered they alto¬gether, for the cat’s threats had made them terriblyafraid. “ You see Sir,” said the Marquis, “ this is-a meadow that never fails to yield a plentiful harvestevery year.” The cat who went on still before,met with some reapers, and said to them, “ Good'people, you who are reaping, if you do not tell theking, that all this corn belongs to the Marquis ofCarabas, you shall be chopped as small as herbs forthe pot.” The king who passed by a moment after,would needs know to whom all that corn did belong?'“ To my Lord Marquis of Garabas ” replied the-reapers; and the king was very well pleased with it,as well as the Marquis whom he congratulated there¬upon. The master cat went always before, sayingtire same words to all he met; and the king was as¬tonished at the vast estates of my Lord Marquis ofCarabas. Monsieur Puss came at last to a statelycastle, the master of which was an Ogre, the richestthat had ever been known; for all the lands the kinghad then gone over, belonged to this castle, the cat,having taken care to inform himself who this Ogrewas, and what he could do, asked to speak with him,saying, “He could not pass so near his castle, with¬out having the honour of paying his respects tohim.The Ogre received him as civilly as an Ogrecould do. and made him sit down. “ I have beenassured,” said the cat, “ that you have the gift ofbeing able to chmge yourself into all sorts of crea¬tures you have a mind to; you can, for example,transform yourself into a lion or elephant, and thelike: “This is true, answered the Ogre, vetybriskly, and to convince you, you shall see me nowbecome a lion. Puss was so sadly terrified at thesight cf a lion so near him, that he immediatelyFAIRY TALES.21got into the gutter, not without abundance of trou¬ble and danger, because of his boots, which were ofno use at all to him in walking upon the tiles. Alittle while after, when Puss saw that the Ogre hadresumed his natural form, he came down, and ownedhe had been very much frightened.“ I have been moreover informed,” said the cat,“ but I know not how to believe it, that you have alsothe power to take upon you the smallest animal; forexample, to charge yourself into a rat or a mouse;but I must own to you, I take this to be impossible.”‘ Impossible;” cried the Ogre, “ you shall see thatpresently,” and at the same time, changed himselfinto a mouse, and began to run about the floor. Pussno sooner perceived this, but he fell upon him, andeat him up..Meanwhile the king, who saw as he passed, thisfine castle of the Ogre’s, had a mind to go into it.Puss who heard the noise of his maiesty’s coach run¬ning over the draw-bridge, ran out and said to theking, “Your majesty is welcome to this ca<tle of my_Lord Marquis of Carabas.” “ What! My Lord Mar¬quis? cried the king: And does this castle also belongto you? There can be nothing finer than this court,and all the stately buildings which surround it, let usgo into it if you please.” The king went up first, theMarquis ham ing the princess, following; they passedinto a spacious hall, where they found a magnificentcollation the Ogre had prepared for his friends, whodared not efiter, knowing the king was there. Hismajesty was perfectly charmed with the good qualitiesof the Marquis, and his daughter was violently inlove with him. The king, after having drank fiveor six glasses, said to him, “My Lord Marquis, youwill be only to blame, if you are not my son-in-law.”The Marquis making several low bows, accep edthe honour his majesty conferred upon him, and22FAIRY TALES.forthwith the very same day married the princess.Puss became a great lord, and never ran aftermice any more, but only for his diversion.HERE was, once upon a time, a widow, whohad two daughters. The eldest was so muchlike her in the face and humour, that whoeverlooked upon the daughter, saw the mother, theywere both so disagreeable and proud, that there wasno living with them. The youngest, who was thevery picture of her father for courtesy and sweetnessof temper, was also one of the most beautiful girlsever seen. As people generally love their own like-:ness, this mother even doated on her eldest daughter,.and at the same time, had a horrible aversion forthe youngest. She made her eat in the kitchen,and work continually.Among other things, this poor girl was forcedtwice a-day, to draw water about a mile and a half,off the house, and bring home a pitch r full of it.One day, as she was at the fountain, there came to.her a poor woman, who begged of her to let herdrink. “O ay, with ail my heart, Goody,” said thispretty little girl, and rinsing immediately .he pitcher,she took some water from the clearest part of thefountain, and gave it to her, holding up the pitcherall the while, that she might drink the easier.The good woman having drank, said to her,‘■You are so very pretty, my dear,sogccd, and so man¬nerly, that I cannot help giving you a gift, (for thiswas a Fairy, who had taken the form of a poor coun¬try woman, to see how far the civility and goodmanners of this pretty girl would go.) “ I will giveTALE V.The Fairy.FAIRY TALES.23you for gift, (continued the Fairy) that at everyvaord you speak, there shall corr.e out of your moutheither a flower or a jewel.”When this pretty girl came home, her motherscolded at her for staying so long at the fountain.“ I beg your pardon, mamma, said the poor girl,for not making more haste;” and in speaking thesewords, there came out of her mouth two roses, twopearls, and two diamonds What is it I see there ?said her mother quite astonished, 1 think I seepearls and diamonds come out of the girl’s mouth?how happy is this child ? This was the first time,ever shq called her child.The poor creature told her frankly all the matter,not without dropping out infinite numbers of dia*monds. “In good faith, cried the mother, I willsend my child hither. Come hither, Fannv, lookwhat comes cut of your sister’s mouth, when shespeaks? Wouldst not thou be glad, my dear, to havethe same gift given unto thee? Thou hast nothingelse to do but go and draw water out of the fountain,and when a certain poor woman asks you to let herdrink, to give it to her very civilly. It would be avery fine sight indeed, said this ill-bred minx, to seeme go draw water. You shall go, hussy, said themother, and this minute. So away she went, butgrumbling all the way, taking with her the bestsilver tankard in the house.She was no sooner at the fountain, than she sawcoming out of the wood, a lady most gloriouslydressed, who came up to her, and asked to drink.1 his was, you must know the very fairy who ap¬peared to her sister; but had nqw taken the am anddress of a princess, to see how far this girl’s rudenesswould go. ‘ Am I come hither, said the proud sausyslut, to serve you with water, pray? I suppose thesilver tankard was brought purely for your ladyship:24 FAIRYTALES.was it? However, you may drink of it if you have afancy.“ You are not over and above mannerly,” ans¬wered the fairy, without putting herself into a pas¬sion: “Well then, since you have so little breeding,and are so very disobliging, 1 give you for gift, thatat every word you speak, there shall come out ofyour mouth a snake or a toad.” So soon as her mo¬ther saw her coming, she cried out, “Well, daughter.”“ Well mother,” answered the pert hussy, throwingout of her mouth two vipers and two toads. “ Omercy!” cried the mother, “ what is it I see? O, itis that wretch her sister, who has occasioned ail this;but she shall pay for it:” and immediately she ranto beat her. The poor child fled away from her,and went to hide herself in the forest not far fromthence.—The king’s son, then on his return fromhunting, met her, and seeing her very pretty, ask^dher, ‘ What she did there alone, and why she cried?’‘ Alas, Sir, my mamma has turned me out of doors.’ 'The king’s son, who saw five or six pearls, and asmany diamonds come out of her mouth, desired herto tell him how that happened. She thereupon told .him the whole story; and so the king’s son fell inlove with her, and considering with himself thatsuch a gift was worth more than any marriage-por¬tion whatsoever in another, conducted her to thepalace of the king his father, and there married her.As for her sister, she made herself so much hatedthn her own mother turned her off; and the misera¬ble wretch having wandered about a good while,without finding any body to take her in, went to %corner in the wood, and there died.GLASGOW:Published and Sold by R. Hutchison & Co. 1817,