T H EEXPLICATIONOF THEPROPHECIESOFTHOMAS RYMER.WHEREIN IS CONTAINED,Certain Remarks on what has already come topal's, with f 'nv. curious Gbferv<uEm onwhat is yet to come Which is cure tallycollecltd and conipareti with ancient oldProphecies, and tne Book of Arms.BY THE FAMOUS^Mr. ALLAN BOYD, M. A.Stirling, Printed in this prefent Year.OLD SCOFISH PROPHECIES.1 GOTLAND he fad now and lament,thy children whom thou haft loft,,Bereft of Kings, falfely undone,by thme unkindly hoft.2 Alas ! the free is bound become,and deceit is thy fall.The falfehood of the Biitifh race,has brought thee into thrall:3 The grave of the moft noble Prince,to all is great regret.The fubjeft to law, who doth leave,the kingdom and eftate.4 O anguiftv great! where ev’ry kind,and ages doth lament:Whom bitter death has ta’en away,fhall Scotland fore repent.5 Lately a land of rich iftcreafe,a nation ftout and true,Has loft their former dear eftate,which they did hold of due6 By hard conflict, and by the chance,of noble Fortune’s force.Thy hap and thy profperity,'is turned into worfe.y Thou won’: to win, now are fubdu’d,and come in under yoke ;A ftranger reigns, and doth deftroy,what likes him by fword’s ftroke.8 The EngJifh race whom neither force,nor manners do approve,Woe is to thee ; by guile and flight,is only won above.9 This mighty nation was toTore,invincible and flout.Has yielded flow to eLfliny, /great pity is but doubt.10 In former age the Scots renown,did flourilh goodly gay :But now. alas ! is over-blade,with a great dark decay.11 Then mark and fee what is the caufe,of this fo wondrous fall,Contempt of faith, faliehood, deceit,the wrath of God withal.12 Infatiable greed of worldly gain, 3opprdiion, cries of poor,A perpetual and flanderous race,no juflice put in ure.13 The haughty pride of mighty men,of former vice chief caufe,The nutriture of wickednefs,an unjuft match of laws :14 Therefore this caufe the prophets told,of long time did pi fage,As now has happened every point,into our prefent age.15 Since fate is fo, now Scotland learn,in patience to abide,Slanders, great fears, and fudden plague^great dolours more befide.r 4 )16 For out of thee, fhall people rife,with divers happinefs;And yet a pen can fcarcely write,thy hurt, ikaith, and didtefs.17 And yet beware thou not diftruft,aitho’ o’erwhelm’d with grief.Thy ilroke is not perpetual,for thou {halt find relief.z 8 I do fuppofe, although too late,old prophecies fhall hold ;Ever hope that in God’s goodnefs,and mercies manifold.19 For thou that now a patient is,and feemeth to be bound ;At liberty fhall free be fet,with empire be renov/n'd.20 From high above {ball grace come down,and thy flate Scotland b£,In latter ends more profperous,nor former age doth fee.21 Old prophecies foretel to thee,a warlike Heir he’s born.Who fhall recover new his right,advance his kingdom’s horn.22 Then (hall the Scots fword fweat with blooda no (laughter which they make,The King himfelf revenge her fhall,the guilty troops down-wreck.23 The Englifh nation (hall invade,but not elcape a plague,With fword with thirft, with tears and peft,with fears and fuch like ague.And after enemies thrawn down,and maftered by war ;Then Scotland in peace quietly,pafs joyful days for ever.A A A A A A a A A. A A A A A A A, A A. A A A A>31 o O O c. O o ?? o o * o o ❖ o o o crWhen Hempe is come and alfo gone,Scotland and England fliall be one.K. K. K.Henry, Edward, Mary, Philip, Elifabeth.Vi 11. VJ. of Spain,M ’s Hufb.HEMP E.Prnifed be God alone^ for Htmpe is come and gone>And left us old Albion , by peace join d in one.T’’ H E explication of the above propheciesconcerning Hernpe. being come andailo gone, and. leaving Scotland and England| join’d in one. is fulfilled in the late King A’il-liam. who came out of Holland, who in oldtime was- vulgarly called the land of liempe,and the joining the two nations together, fig.niiies the union. 1 hefe things were foretoldI by the two Scot;, Prophets in the reign of K.in<rArthur j firil by the Marvellous Meriing whois laid to be got by a devil, who ravilhcd ayoung woman his mother in a wood near Cold-flream in the fouth of Scotland, afterwards tothe fame purpofe, thefe and many more llrangethings were foretold by Thomas Lermont,vulgarly called i'hopias Rymer. becaule hefpbke all his prophetical layings in rhyme*and fo darkly that they could not be under-Hood until they came to pafs.This Thomas Lermont, or Rymer rvas bornat Erllington, now called Hefeiingtown onTweedfide, above Kelfo. He is ri ported byhidorians to be a quiet fober man given to nomanner of vice, but prone to piety and de¬votion, a famous monthly prognohicator con¬cerning the date of the weather, and govern¬ment of the world, by fludying the afpe£ls ofthe planets. He being one day afked by anobleman what fort of a day they fitould haveto-morrow? I'o which he anfvvtred, That themorrow before high noon, a blaft fhould blaw,that Scotland fhould not overcome the evilthereof for twenty years thereafter. The noble¬man and many more being greatly amazed,and giving great attention, looking for theblafl all the next day till towards evening hefent for Thomas to rebuke him for the talie-hcod of his Prophecy, and juft as he began toupbraid him, he heard the found of a poll’shorn, who came with the woeful news, howthe king had been hunting, and had broke hisneck over a craig on the weft fade of the tow nof Kinghorn, from wdiich accident the townreceived its name. Now, fays Thomas to theNobleman, the blaft is blaun and for twentyyears after there was no peace, but bloody warsin Scotland, on the account of who fhould beking. Now as to the reft of his propheticalfayings, they are hard to be underflood, be-^caufe they are pointed out by the Coats of4rms, which appertain to fo many differentkingdoms, and perfops. Yet wc obferve howhe has pointed out plainly, many things whichhas come to pafs in our days; fuch as the extir¬pation of the noble race of the Stewarts, therevolution, SherifF-muir, &c. where he fays.That three Ships and a Shield,That day (hall keep the Field;And be the Antelope’s beild.Tliefe three {hips and a {Field, are in theDuke of Argyle’s arms ; and even every par¬ticular of the rebellion in 1745 and 46, when.pointing at, he fays, a chieftan unchofen, {hallchoofe forth himftlf, and rule the realm as hisown, when at King Charles, he calls him a flyfox bird, who would turn to Chrift with toadsor foxes wyles, meaning his fwearing the co¬venants, When {peaking of the battle of Pref-ton-pans in the year 1745, he names the ve¬ry two neighbouring villages to the fpot ofground whereon it yvas fought, to wit, Goyfe-ford Green and Seton, faying. Between Setonand the fea, forrow fhall be wrought by thelight of the moon, which a&tully came to paisthat morning the battle of Prelion pans wasfought ; but how the Lion was hurt at thistime and not perceived, is yet a myftery. Someare of opinion, that it is by taking away thepower or i'uperionty from the chiefs of thaHighland Clans, fo that they cannot raife men,in inch a flrort time as formerly.Thefe are a few of the obfervations we makeon things already cents to pifs, and as whit( 8 )is yet to come there is fome remarks will yethappen when the time draws nigh ; fuch aswhen Tarbert Craigs are tumbled into the Sea,and the next feafon or fummer thereafter* greatforrow and blood(hed fhail happen to this re¬alm, the chief thereof efpeciaiiy fuch as barl¬ing on flailes and chopping off heads. LhisTarbert ftands near the mouth of the riverClyde, but whether its being tumbled in thefea, fljall happen by an earthquake thunder,or by the hands of mm, is a mystery unknown.There is aifo mention made of a Lord with alucken or double hand which certainly is ofroyal blood, and will breed great Air and.confufion in Britain. This man is alive inthis very prefent age. and of the Stewart’srace, now in Italy : And there is plainlypointed out, that in his time, a great battlefliould be feen in Fife,Where faddled horfes fhould be feen,Tyed unto the trees green.Not only in Fife, but the four chief risersof the realm, there ftiould be a battle on eachof them., that fliould make the rivers run withblood, to wit, Tweed, Clyde, Forth and Fay,and la ft of all, a bloody desperate battle in& Northumberland, on the river Lyric alfo greathavock and {laughter about the broad walls ofBerwick, all thele things are yet to come topal's, and when the firft appears, the reft willfoon follow after.FINIS.