^L=i ko^l=3 KOU/Lzi ro^liziy CA^Lriy v.4 ViPAISLEY:PRINTED BY CALDWELL AND SON, 2, NEW STREET.THEHISTORYOFCHARLES J OATES,THE FOOTMAN.SHEWING HOW HE RAISED HIMSELF FROM THE HUMBLESTATION OF A FOOT BOY, TO A PLACE OF GREATEMINENCE AND TRUST, BY HISHONESTY AND INTEGRITY.ALSO,ON PRJDE, & THE COUNTRY CLERGYMAN.HISTORYOFCIIAMIL'ES JOAES.My father, George Jones commonly calledBlack George, on account of his swarthy com¬plexion, was one of the most industrious men inthe whole vilage. His cottage, which was hisown, and partly built by his own hands, standson the common, about a stone’s throw from theroad, near the great Oak tree, in the parish ofKing’s Charleton in Somersetshire.—The Lordof the Manor having granted him leave to inclosea bit of the common for a garden, my father hadgot a thriving young orchard and a long strip ofpotatoes, besides his cottage, all the produce ofhis own industry. It used to be a favourablesaying with him, that no man to whom God hadgiven two hands, had ever need to want. ‘ Formy part says he, I never knew what want was—When I am sick, the club supports me, and when1 am well, I warrant I’ll support myself. Mymother, besides being equally industrious, wasmuch more religious, an 1 therefore much hap¬pier. She was as good and sweet-tempered awoman as any in tic world. For constancy ather duty, Friendship, civility to her neighbours,cleanliness in her own person, her house and herchildren, she had not her fellow. But the mostremarkable thing in her(I am afraid a very un¬common thing) was her steady and uninterrup¬ted practice of family prayer. It must have beena hard days work indeed, that hindered her fromher prayers. At six in the morning and eight inthe evening, as regularly as ever the hour came,she always knelt down with her children roundher, four of us, and read with great solemnityand devotion a short form given her by the clergy¬man, which concluded with the Lord’s prayer,in which we all joined. And she used to sayafter she had finished, ‘ Now I can go to bedor to work, in peace; for now we may hope Godwill protect us“ I am sorry to say my Fatherseldom joined with us. He used to pretend hewas busy or tired ; and yet it would not have de¬tained him long nether, for we were never morethan six minutesabout it, and surely twelve minutesa day (six in the morning and six in the evening) isno great time to give to God. One thing has oftenstruck me, that if any thing went wrong and ruff¬led my dear mother’s temper, or made her uneasy,the prayer seemed to set all to rights. Whenshe had been to prayers, all her grief seemed to befled away. And indeed I observed the same thingwith respect to my father; if he ever did joinwith us, it always seemed somehow to composeand sweeten his mind, and make him a great dealkinder to my mother and us.A* nvy fad\er ami mother wene Tory indtsiti k)U«themselves, they were very desirous to make theirchildren so; every child was employd as soon ashe was able, in something or other. At aboutthirteen years of age my employment had been forsome time to weed in the parson’s garden, andrun errands for him. At fourteen he took meinto his house, and not a little proud was I at ob¬taining the title of his ‘little footman.4 Themorning I left my father’s cottage, my dear mo¬ther, who was kind as she was good, appearedto be verj much affected; she said she could notcommit me to the wide world, without first com¬mitting me to God who governed it; and thenshe knelt down with me by her side, and prayed,* Gracious Lord, be pleased to have mercy on mydear boy, To thy care I commend him. Guardhim, I beseech thee in the many temptationswhich he is now beginning to encounter. A'Lryhe with solid piety and honest diligence, do hisduty in that state of life in which it hath pleasedthee to place him,4—She then gave me her bless¬ing, put a Testament into my pocket, bid me fearGod, and always act for my master as I would dofor myself.In my new situation there were to be suresome few things disagreable. My mistress waspeevish and fretful; the cook violent and passion¬ate. But what service is there, or indeed, whatsituation in life, howsoever much above servitude,which there is not something unpleasant ? Everystate has its trials; servants have theirs: but ifthey cannot learn to put up with some little in-conveniences, they may change their placesevery year of their lives, and never be satisfiedafter all. This is a lesson I have learnt by longexperience.Though by God’s blessing I had received amore raligious education than most children, ityet soon appeared that I had many faults, whichit was necssary for me to be corrected of beforeI could become a good servant. At first, whenI was sent upon an errand, I was much given toloitering. I was than too young to consider thatby loitering in errands I was wasting what wasnot my own, but my master’s time. Besides thisfault, as every thing which I saw and heard inmy master’s house was such as I had never seenor heard before, I was too apt to talk of it to myold play fellows, or at the village shop. But assoon as ever I became a little older, 1 began toreflect that this was very wrong. One Sundayevening, when I had leave to go home to see myparents, I was beginning to tell my mother howthere had been a great uproar at the parsonagethe day before, about Here she put her handupon my lips, and said, ‘Charles, not a wordmore of what has passed at the parsonage.Whatsoever happens in your master’s house isnever to be spoken of out of your master’s doors.A tale bearing servant is alway an unfaithful ser¬vant; he betrays the trust which his master putsin him.“My mother’s vehemence surprised me a little,but it made so much impression upon me, that Iwas pretty well broken of the fault from that very6time. Into how many scrapes has thi& talkativetempet brought many servants of my acquaint¬ance ! There was poor Nic Jarret, the squire’sunder f ootman, that lost his place, a new suit ofblack broad cloth, and a legacy of five pounds,which he would soon have had by reason of hismistress’s death, only for saying at a neighbour’shouse, that his mistress sometimes fell asleepwhile the squire was reading to the family on aSunday night.Nic and I were at one time rather too intimatejI remember one day, when I was about sixteen,having attended my master to the squire’s house,Nic prevailed on me after dinner to play withhim at pitch and toss. I was worth at that timefive shillings and two pence, more money than Ihad ever possessed before in my life. In abouttwo hours Nic reduced me to my last shillingBut though it was a heavy stroke at the time,yet it proved in the end a happy event, for bymy mother’s persuasions, I resolved thence for¬ward never to game again as long as I lived, whichresolution, by God’s grace, I have hitherto hap¬pily kept. I wish from my heart that all otherservants would resolve the same. The practice ofcard playing, so common among servants in largefamilies, is the worst custom they can possiblyfall into. My poor brother Tom suffered enoughfor it one day having received in the morninga quarter’s wages, he lost the whole of it beforenight at All Fours; and what was the consequenceWhy, from that very time, he took to tho$epractice# of cheating hi# master which ended m27his ruin. How much better would it be for allServants, if instead of wasting their leisure incard-pla/ing, they would amuse themselves inreading some Godly book, or improve themselvesin writing, or cyphering. It was by this means,for I was never taught to write, that I qualifiedmyself for the place of Bailiff, which I now fill.I remember Nic used to say, ‘Whilst my mas¬ter plays cards in the parlour, why shoudst thoube so sqeamish as not to play in the kitchen ?But Nic did not consider that his master beingrich, and playing for small sums, his loses laidunder no temptation of dishonesty in order topay them; besides the Squire could read andwrite at any time, whereas this was our onlyleisure time, and if we did not improve ourselvesthen, we never could; what might be compara-lively innocent in him, might be ruinous to us.And even if my master be a professed gambler,that is no reason I should be so too. A servantis to do what is right, let his master do what hewill. If a master swears and gets drunk, andtalks at table with decency, or against God andreligion, to God he must account for it, and asorry account it will be, I doubt; but his examplewill not excuse our crimes, though it will aggra¬vate his. We must take care of our own souls,whether our masters take care of theirs or not.But to return to my history; I am ashamed tosay that I was guilty more than once in the ear¬lier part of my servitude, of the shocking anddetestable crime of lying, in order to excuse orscreen my faults.—Happily 1 was cured of it in8the following manner; Having been one day or¬dered to carry a bottle of wine to a sick man, oneof my master4* parishioners, 1 accidentally brokethe bottle, and of course lost the wine, Whatwas to be done? Should 1 confess my misfortune,and acknowledge my carelessness, or conceal itby a lie? After some deliberation, 1 resolvedupon the lie.-—1 therefore had made up my story,‘how the poor man sent his duty to my master,and thanked him a thousand times, and that hewas a little better, and that his wife said shethought this wine would save his life.* Beingthus prepared, as 1 was returning home, 1 met apedlar, of whom 1 bought for a penny a littlebook containing a story of a woman at Dervizes,who was struck dead ou the spot for telling a lie.To be sure it was Heaven sent the pedlar to me,to save me from the sin 1 was going to commit.‘If this woman was struck dead for a lie, (said 1to myself) why may not 1 ?“ 1 therefore wentdirectly home, and made a confession of my neg¬ligence and misfortune. And it was well for me1 did; for the sick man, whose duty and thanks1 had wickedly intended to carry to my master,was dead, as 1 understood afterwards, threehours before the bottle was broken. From thistime, therefore, 1 began to see, what 1 am nowfully convinced of, that besides the sinfulness oflieing, it is always more for the interest and last¬ing comforts of servants to confess the tiuth atonce, than to conceal a fault by falsehood, Whena servant has told a lie, he is always in danger ofits being found out, and sooner or later it genet--9ally i« found out, and then hi# character '» mined.Whereas, if ke confesses the truth at ohee, h«probably escapes without any anger at all, or «tvorst it is soon over, and the faultdtself is forgot¬ten.Having now lived seven years at the parsonage,and being twenty-one years of age, my mastercalled me one day into his study, where he spent• good deal of his time, and said to me, ‘Charlesyou have lived with me a considerable time, andit has been always with much pleasure that 1 haveremarked the decency, sobriety and diligence ofyour conduct. These few faults which yon have,further experience and more years will, 1 doubtnot, cure. You are now qualified for a betterplace than mine, and are entitled to higher wagesthan it is in my power to give. 1 have thereforerecommended you to a friend of mine in London,for which place you are to act out, if you approveof it, in a month. But 1 should think it a crime todismiss you to a situation so full of teaiptationfywithout giving you some little advio*. Listen,therefore, my dear Charles, to what 1 shall sayas 1 mean it only for your good. In the first placefear God; and then you will never have anoccasion to be afraid of man. Act always in hispresence. Never enter or quit your bed withoutprayer. Do always for your master, as you wouldyour master, if you were to change places, shoulddo for you. Endeavour to get a pious friend,but avoid, as you would the plague, all wickedcompany. Be cautious of too great familiaritywith your female fellow servants; a* unlawfult10intercourse *f this k inti dill ruin yofc. body indsoul. Flee from an alehouse as you would fromthe devil; if you once get into it, you will neverbe out of it. Keep your money, and your moneywill keep you. H ere Charles, is a Bible for you;the more you read it, the more you will love it,the better you will be, and the happier. 1 havewritten some directions for you in the fii’St pageof it. God bless you; and when my race, whichis now drawing to its end, shall finish, may wemeet in heaven. My master‘s kindness so affectedme, that 1 could not answer him for tears. I wasindeed very glad of going to see so fine a place asLondon, though at the same lime i could notleave a house where 1 had been treated more likea child than a servant, without great regret. 1shall not attempt to describe my parting with mymother. No description, 1 am sure, could dojustice to the solemn and affectionate manner inwhich she exerted me to be pious and just, andrecommended me to God in prayer. Her lastwords 1 shall never forget—‘1 know my dear son(said she) that you love me tenderly, and thatyou would not give me unnecessary pain on anyaccount. Remember then, that whenever yoa doany wrong thing, you are planting a dagger inyour mother‘s heart.” With these words, hereyes brim full of tears, and her hands lifted up insilent prayer to God, she turned away from me,and went into the cottage.And now, Reader, you find me in the greatand dangerous city of London, in the serviottof avery weatlthy master, who kept tweirtf a*rv*®ts11besides myself, if country people knew Londonas well as 1 do, how cautious would they be forexchanging their safe and peaceful situations inthe country for the perils and temptations of agreat city. How many young fellows have 1known, who lived honestly and happily in theirnative place, come up to London in the hope ofhigher wages, and there forfeit their integrity,their peace of mind, their health ; their characterand souls. Workmen in particular are very fondof getting into large cities, because they thinktheir labour will turn to better account there thanin their own villages. They do not consider thatin a cky, they must give as much far a filthyroom, in a filthy house, inhabited by half a dozenfamilies, situated in a closa, smokey, dirty street,as in the country would pay the rent of a cottageand a garden. They do not consider the dear¬ness of provisions in a city, the temptations theyare under from bad women, wicked company andthe great number of alehouses. In short I amfully persuaded that a labourer in the country,on a shilling a day, is better off’ than oae in acity on two shillings.When I came to my place, I found every thingfor the first three or lour days very smooth andvery pleasant, plenty of provisions, plenty of drinklittle work, and a very merry servants hall. Butsoon the face of things, with respect to me,changed very much, and I underwent a severertemptation than I ever experienced before or sincein the whole course of my lift*. I had alwayshitherto been taught to consider that sobriety and(\2diligence, and piety, were virtue*. I thereforenever swore, I never got drunk, I never gamed,1 went to church as often as 1 could, 1 said myprayers night and morning, and on Sunday atleast, if not on other days 1 read a little in mygood old master’s Bible. But here 1 soon foundthat all this was the worst vice 1 could be guiltyof. As soon ns they found me out, it seemed tobe a trial of skill amongst them who should plagueme most. One called me a Parson; another, aMethodist ; a third, a conceited Prig; a fourth,a canting Hypocrite. If I went into any othergentleman’s kitchen it was all the same; mycharacter flew before me, and many were the jestsand laughs raised both at home and abroad atmy expense. In short, during three months, mylife wa» a constant anxiety and torment; so thatat last I was almost tempted, God forgive me forthe thought, to do as they did, and forfeit myeverlasting soul in order to avoid the presentuneasiness. But while things were ia this state,I felt myself greatly and unexpectedly relieved.One Sunday morning by a sermon which I hap¬pened to hear from our Parish Minister, on thefollowing text, ‘ Blessed are ye when men shallrevile you and persecute you, and shall say allmanner of evil of you Jalsety for my sake, forgreat is your reward in heaven.* The excellentdiscourse which this pious man delivered on thesewords was so exactly suited to my circumstancesand feelings, that it seemed as if it had beenaddressed solely to me; and it pleased God so toapply what had been said to my heart and under-Itstanding, that I not only determined to bear infuture the sneers and scoffs of my fellow servantswith patience and fortitude, but even those verysneers which I formerly consitlered as my heaviestcalamity, were now no longer grievous. Fromthis time, therefore, my uneasiness was prettywell at an end. And I earnestly recommend itto ail other servants, who have been so happy asto acquire sober and virtuous habits, not to sufferthemselves to be laughed out of their sobriety andvirtue by the jests and ridicule of their fellow-servants. They may depend upon it that theircause is a good one, and though they suffer for itat first, they will finally triumph. In a shorttime all my persecution was at an end. ‘To besure (said the coachman one day to the cook)Charles is a little too religious, but upon myword I don’t think he is the worse of it. Mayhapit might be better for us we were more like him.I don’t see but that he is as humble, friendly,and worthy a fellow as any amongst us. For mypart I shall laugh at him no longer.4 This speech,which I happened accidentally to overhear, gaveme great pleasure, and I soon found by the agree¬able change in my fellow-servants conduct towardsme, that the coachman had expressed the opinionof the whole hall. It is true I did every thingif nobody else would do it, I never stopped toconsider whether it belonged to my place or not,but did it cut of hand. If any body took it intoItie heed to fall out ’awth ire, I generally disarmedhim of his wrath by saying nothing. If any littlequarrels, or misfortunes or misconduct, happenedin the hall, I always endeavoured to hush it up,and never carried any tales to the master, unlesswhen I saw any body wronging him, and then Ithought it my duty, or unless the thing was verybad indeed. In short, by pursuing always thisline of conduct, I found my situation very com¬fortable and agreeable. My master treated mewith great confidence and kindness; my fellow-servants with great friendliness and respect.In about two years time, the footman that usedto go to market being turned away for drunken¬ness, which vice soon proved his ruin, my masterold me, that as he believed I was an honest andcareful young man, and perceiving that I couldwrite and keep an account, he should in futureemploy me in marketting. To market, therefore,I went every day, and as I had now a good dealof my master’s money always in my haad. 1prayed heartily to God that he would be pleasedto preserve me under the temptation to whichthis exposed me. My first exploit in this waywas the purchase of ten shillings worth of fruitat a fruiterer s. When 1 had finished my bar¬gain, and was coming out of the shop, the fruit¬erer slipt a shilling into my hand. As 1 hadnever, to the best of my recollection, seen himbefore, 1 was somewhat surprized at his gener¬osity; but fortunately had the presence of mindto ask him whether he had charged his fruit thehighar on account of this present to me. ‘ Why6ISyoung man (jmM he) thi» is mi booe*t queation,and 1 will give you an honest answer. The factis, that as we know that gentlemen of your clothexpect some compliment from the tradesmen thatthey deal with we are obliged in our own defenceto charge our articles the higher on that accountto their masters.' ‘And so, (said I) the moneyyou give us, comes finally from the pockets ofour masters? -To be sure it does.* ‘Why then,(said I) I will take your shilling, but shall chargemy master only nine shillings. And this methodI constancy pursued in the like case ever after;for I think the above mentioned practice of foot¬men, which, however, I hope is not Tory commolwith them, is just the same in conscience aa ifthey should rob their master’s bureau.One Monday morniug, haring settled myaccount for the last week with my master, 1 foundthat he had made a mistake against himself oftwenty shillings. As sooa as 1 discovered it, lsaid to myself, her« now is an opportunity forgetting twenty shillings withoat any risk ®f de¬tection ; but God forbid that 1 should do it, aa itwould ruin my peace of mind, aad destroy mysoul. 1 therefore pointed out the error to mymaster the first opportunity.—‘Charles, (saidhe) you are right the mistake is obvious- 1 ack¬nowledge 1 made it purposely to try your honestyYou will find that this affair will turn out, beforelong, to your advantage.’ Now, though 1 donot think it quite fair of masters to lay this kindof trap for their servant's integrity, yet aa 1 knowby experience they sometimes do it, we must be16doibly on our guard. lnd«ed, dishonesty isneter safe. It always will out somehow or other.1 hawe seen surprizing instances of the discoveryof it, when it seemed to have been committedwith such cunning as to be impossible to be de¬tected.One day as 1 was going to market, 1 met SirRobert S- ’s butler, who told me, that havinglong observed my sobriety and diligence, he washappy to have it now in his power to offer me aplace in his master’s family, where my wageswould be raised two guineas a yoar. 1 thankedhim, and told him he should have his answernext evening. In the mean time 1 called upona pious and worthy friend, whom 1 consulted inall difficulties, and asked his opinion. Aftermature deliberation, he said, ‘Charles, don’t go.When you are once got into a good place, stickto it like a leech. The rolling stone gets no mossThe more years you continue in one service, themors you are respected by your master and allthe world. A good family considers an old seiv,vast as one of themselves, and can no more seehim want than a near relation. Whereas servant!that are continually roving from place to place,have no friend in distress, and seldom get a pro-,vision for old age.’ Happy it was for me that ]followed this good advice. If 1 had not, 1 shoultprobably have been nothing more than a pool,footman all my life.But before 1 bring my own story to an end, ] ,must beg my reader‘s patience, to listen to th<sad fate of my poor brother Tom. Alas f poosTom, he was & great favourite in our kitchen*because he sung the best song, ami told the mer¬riest tale, and paid his card money the most free¬ly of any gentleman footman about town. Andthen he swore so much like a gentleman, and wasso complaisant to the ladies, and pushed aboutthe strong beer so merrily, that ha was, said ourservants, the most agreeable company in theworld. And yet all these entertaining qualitiesdid not preserve my poor brother fsom the mostdreadful state of distress and ruin. One morn¬ing he came to me about ten o‘clock with o verywoeful face, which was a thing very unusual forhim, and told me, that he had just been turnedaway from his place without a character, that hehad no money, many debts, and no real Iriends,and what was worse than all, that he was labour¬ing under disease.Torn grew worse every day, and was at lengthgiven over. In the morning of that day, whileI was sitting at his bedside, who should eome inbut my dear mother. She had walked 130 miles,except now and then a lift in the waggon, to at-'tend upon her undeserving son. When she saw>him, pale and emaciated, and his face half con-■isutned by disease, it so shocked her, that she-fainted away. As soon as she recovered, andwas a little relieved by a plentiful flood of tears,she said, ‘ My dear Tom, I am come to take care'of thee, and make thee better, if I can, ’Alas Smother (answered he, putting his clay cold handiinto hers) it is all too late. 1 have bat a fewdhours to live. It is by neglecting jour advice'/18that I am brought to this. Gaming and drink,and bad company, and bad women have been myruin! O what will become of my soul! if I,could but live mV life over again.—Here he wasseized with a sudden fit, and though he livedsome hours, he never spoke after; and died thatevening in my mother’s arms.After recounting the sorrowful history of myunhappy brother, I must now hasten to concludemy own. About a twelvemonth after the offer ofa place in Sir Robert S ’s family, my master,in consideration as he said, of my faithful services,made me his butler. He was indeed so kind andfriendly to me on all occasions, that I found itnecessary to be extremely cautious lest I shouldgrow proud, so saucy, or familiar, which someservants, when they have lived long in a place,and find themselves in favour, are apt to do.After enjoying this post about six years, ourfamily being now removed into the country, 1made aquaintance with a farmer’s daughter livingnear the great house, whom on account of herreligious and industrious principles, and heramiable and cheerful temper, I wished to makemy wife. She was ho flaunter in fine clothes,none of your dancing, flirting, forward lasses,that run about to christenings, and revels, amihopes, that will ruing a man betore he knowswhere he is; but a pious, sober, stay-at-home,industrious young woman ; else I am sure anybody might have had her for me. As 1 hadnever been guilty of any unnecessary expense,for nobody will call that unneeessary which 1 sent19yearly to my parents, my savings, the interestbeing added yearly to the principal in the handsof my master, amounted to two hundred pounds.And as Fanny’s father promised to give her an¬other hundred,! thought we might with this takea small farm, and maintain ourselves comfortablyand decently.—I therefore communicated theaffair to my master. ‘Charles, (said he) thoughI am loth to part with so good a servant, yet Ithink it an act of gratitude due to you for yourlong and faithful services, to consent readily toany thing which may be for your welfare. ButI do not think it necessary for us to part at all.I am at present in want of a bailiff. You may,if you approve it, undertake that office, and stillretain your present wages. Your father-in-law,who is an experienced farmer, will instruct andassist you in the duties of it. I will, besides, letyou a small farm on an advantageous lease, whichyou may make the most of for yourself.’To this kind and generous offer I freely assented.And Fanny and myself have now lived togethersix years in the farm-house near the park-gate,happy and prosperous. My father being dead,and my brother and sister settled, my mother,who is now very old, lives with me; and by herexample and exhortation I find a sense of religionsink deeper into my soul every day, and indeedI am very well convinced by long experience,that there is nothing in this world can make ustruly happy but that.•*)I address this little book, which I wrote bylittle and little in the long evenings ot the lasthard winter, to all footmen. I hope they willnot be angry with my well meant endeavours, buttake kindly what is intended only tor their good.■ ■’i» i ■:t J ';!t.--aii d vjdttft-Miio.r. Tfn ,fr it1PKIIM2.Croesur, king of Lydia, having expressed anextraordinaiT/ inclination to see Solon, that phil¬osopher repaired to Sardis to pay him a visit.|The first time he vras presented, the king receiv-td him seated on his throne, and dressed on pur¬pose in his most sumptuous robes; but Solonappeared not the least astonished at the sight ofsuch a glare of magnificence.“My friend, said Croesus to him, Fame hasiven/ whore reported thy wisdom. 1 know youhave seen many conntri.es; but have you everseen a person dressed so magnificently as 1 ajn ?”[‘Yes, replied Solon, the pheasants and peacocksare dressed more magnificently, because theirbrilliant apparel is the gift of nature, withoutheir taking any thought or pains to adorn them¬selves.”Such an unexpected answer very much surpriz¬ed Croesus, who ordered his officers to open allns treasures, and shew them to Solon, as alsods rich furniture, and whatever was magnificentn his palace. He then sent for him a seconditne, and asked him if he had ever seen a man,nore happy than he was. “Yes, replied Solon,md that man was Tellus, a citizen of Athens,■vho lived with an unblemished character in a well•egulated republic. He left two children much■espected, with a moderate fortune for their subrlistence, & at last had the happiness to die swordn hand, after having obtained a victory for his:ountry. The Athenians have erected a monu-n.ent to his memory on the spot where he fell,ind have otherwise paid him great hoonrs.”/22Croesi** was ito toss astonished at this than atthe first answer, and began to think Solon wasnot perfectlj/ right in his senses. “ Well, con-,tinned Croesus, who is the next happy man toTellus ?”—“There were formerly, replied Solon,two brothers, the one named Cleobis, and theother Biton. The?/ were so robust, that theyalways obtained the prize in every sort of com¬bat, and perfectly loved each other. One feastday, when the priestess of Juno, their mother,for whom they had the most tender affection,was to go to the temple to sacrifice, the oxenthat were to draw her thither did not comein time, Cleobis and Biton hereupon fastenedthemselves to her carriage, and in that manaerdrew her to the temple. All the matrons inraptures congratulated their mother on havingbrought two such sons into the world. Theirmother, penetrated with emotions of the strong¬est joy and gratitude, fervently prayed the god¬dess, that she would bestow on her sons the bestgift she had to confer on mortals. Her prayerswere heard; for, after the sacrifice, the twosons fell asleep in the temple, and never after¬wards awoke. Thus they finished their lives bya tranquil and peaceful death.”Croesus could no longer conceal his rage^“WTat then, said he, do you not even placeme among the number of happy people ?”—“ Cking of the Lydians, replied Solon, you possessgreat riches, and are master of a great multitudeof people; but life is liable to so many changesthat we cannot presume to decide on the felicity oaiy man, until he has finished his mortal career/23Th© Country ClergymanNearj/onder copse, where once the garden smil’dand still where many a garden flower grownwild ;There, where a few torn shrubs the place disclose,The village preacher’s modest mansion rose.A man he was, to all the country dear,And passing rich with forty pounds a year;Remote from towns, he ran his godly race,Nor e’er had chang’d nor wish’d to change hisplace,Unpractis’d he to fawn, or seek for power,By doctrines fashion’d to the varying hour;For other aims his heart had learn’d to prize,More skill’d to raise the wretched than to rise.His house was known to all the vagrant train,He chid their wand’rings, but relieved their pain;The long remembered beggar was his guest.Whose beard descending, swept his aged breast;The ruin’d spendthrift now no longer proud,Claim’d kindred there, and had his claim allowedThe broken soldier, kindly bid to stay,Sat by his fire, and talk'd the night away;Wept o’er his wounds, or tales of sorrow done.Shoulder’d his crutch, and shewed how fieldswere won.Pleas d with his guests, the good man learn’d toglow,And quit forgot their vices in their woe;Careless their merits, or their faults to scan,His pity gave ere charity began.24Thus to relieve the wretched was his pride,And even his failings lean’d to Virtue’s free;But in his dut?/ prompt at even/ call,He watch’d and wept, he pray’d and felt for allAnd, as a bird each fond endearment tries,To tempt its new fledg’cd offspring to the skies;He tried each art, reprov’d each dull dela,y,Allur’d to brighter worlds, and led the way.Beside the bed where parting life was laid,And sorrow7, guilt and pain, by turns dismat/'d,The reverend champion stood. At his control,Despair and anguish fled the struggling soul;Comfort came down, the trembling wretch to raiseAnd his last faultering accents whispered praise.At church, with meek and unaffected grace,His looks adorn'd the venerable place ;Truth from his lips prevail'd with double swaj/,And Idols, who came to scoff", remained to pray.The service past, around the pious man,With ready zeal each honest rustic ran ;Even children followed with endearing wile,And pluck'd his gown to share the good mans,smile.His ready smile a parent's warmth exprest,Their welfare pleas'd him, and their cares distrestTo them his heart, his love, his griefs vvefe given,But all his serious thoughts had rest in Heaven.As some tall cliff* that lifts its awful form,Swells from the vale, and midway leaves thestorm,Tho' round its breast the rolling clouds are spreadEternal sunshine settles on its head.