ANINTERESTING HISTORYOFROBERT BURNS;THEayrss&sme: rarr.UF£S OF ROBERT BURN*.! Robert Burns was bora on the 25 th of January,‘ 1759, in a cottage about two miles south fromAyr, not far from the Kirk of Alloway and the“ Auld Briu- of Doon.” His father, WilliamBurns or Burness, married Agnes Brown in De-! cember, 1757, and the poet was their first born,i William Burns was a man of great integrity,j and of strictly religious principles, and is beau-S tit'ully painted by the poet “ As the saint, the fath-! er, and the husband,” in the Cottar’s SaturdayI Night. Agnes Brown, the wife of this goodI man, was a woman of great prudence and saga-i:city, and is said to have had a considerable resem¬blance in features to her celebrated son. Shei i possessed a great store of ballads and tra-iditionary tales, which no doubt nourished the.imagination of the young poet. With all the^economy and hard labour of this worthy pair,^things did not turn out well and William Burns^removed to the Farm of Mount Oliphant, in t‘heiiparish of Ayr, on Whitsunday 177b, when Roberti'was about seven years old. Here from the soilibeing of the worst description, and other causes,ihe was glad to give up the bargain at the end ofsix years. He then removed to a better farm, thatHof Lochlea, in the parish of Tarbolton, where au~4other train of misfortunes overtook him; bnt adispute about the lease, which had been referredto arbitration, resulted in his ruin. He lived toknow of the decision, but death saved him from |witnessing its consequences. He died of consump-tion on the 13th of February, 1784. In the midst |of these struggles, William Burns used the utmostexertions to educate his children,—a duty whichis seldom neglected by Scottish parents, howeverscanty their means. Robert, and Gilbert hisnext brother, attended school together. Theirlotkteacher, speaking of them, says, “ Robert, andGilbert were generally at the upper end of theelass, even when ranged with boys by far theirseniors. Gilbert always appeared to me to pos¬sess a more lively imagination, and to be moreof the wit than Robert. I attempted to teachthem a little church music. Here they were leftfar behind by all the rest of the school. Robert’sear, in particular, was remarkably dull, and hisvoice untunable. It was long before I could getthem to distinguish one tune from another.”“ The two first books,” says the poet himself, in1787, “ 1 ever read in private, and which gaveme more pleasure than any two books I ever read j.since, were The Life of Hannibal, the His¬tory of Sir William Wallace. Hannibal gavemy young ideas such a turn, that I used to strut 'i.n raptures up and down after the recruiting drum ttolail*»oand bagpipe, and wish myself tall enough to bea soldier; while the story of Wallace poured a tideof Scottish prejudice into my veins, which willboil there till the floodgates of life shut in eter¬nal rest.”When they had been about two years at MountOliphant, their school-master left the country.“ There being no school near us,” says GilbertBurns, “ And our little services being alreadyuseful on the farm, my father undertook to teachus arithmetic in the winter evenings by candle¬light,—and in this way my two elder sisters gotall the education they ever received.” WhenBurns was about thirteen or fourteen years old,he was sent, with his brother Gilbert, week a-bout, during a summer quarter, to the parishschool of Dairy mple, two miles distant, theirfather being unable to pay two fees, or they couldnot be both spared at once from the labours ofthe farm. “ We lived very poorly,” says tbspoet; “ I was a dexterous ploughman for myage: and the next eldest to me was brother Gil¬bert, who could drive the plough very well, andhelp me to thrash the corn. A novei-writ*rmight perhaps have viewed these scenes with(some satisfaction, but so did not I. My indig¬nation yet boils at the recollection of the scound-|rei factor’s insolent letters, whicn used to set u#jail in tears.” “ To the buffetings of misfor-0ae,” says Gilbert, “ We could only opposehard labour, and the most rigid economy. Welived very sparingly. I doubt not but the hardlabour and sorrow of this period of life, was in agreat measure the cause of that depression ofspirits, with which Robert was so often afflictedthrough his whole life afterwards.About a year after this period, their old school¬master, Mr Murdoch having established himselfin the town of Ayr, Robert for some time attend¬ed him there, and learned a little of English gram¬mar, Latin, and French, In the meantime, heread with great avidity every book chance threwin his way. The removal of the family to Loch-lea took place when Burns was in his sixteenthyear ; a little before which period, according tohis own account, he “ First committed the sin ofrhyme/’ In one of his epistles he says :—“ I mind it weel, in early date,When I was beardless, young, and blate—E’er then a wish, I mind its power,A wish that to my latest hourShall strongly heave my breast:That I, for poor auld Scotland’s sake,Some useful plan or book could make.While at Lochlea, Robert and his brother wereemployed by their father and received £1 each a-yp&JT. Robert was remarkable for his personaltillti!it;k*strength, and worked very hard at all the tasksof the farm. “ In my seventeenth year,” he says,“ To give my manners a brush, I wenttoacoutry dancing-schooland afterwards, “ At theplough, scythe, or reap-hook, I feared no com¬petitor, and thus I set want at defiance ; and asI never cared farther for my labour than while Iwas in actual exercise, I spent my evenings inthe way after my own heart. A country lad sel¬dom carries on a love adventure without an as-i sisting confidant. I possessed a curiosity, zeal,1 'ind intrepid dexterity, that recommended me ast! a proper second on these occasions, and I darei? say I felt as much pleasure in being in the secretft of half the loves in the parish of Tarbolton, asa ever did statesman in knowing the intrigues ofn half the courts of Europe. While thus occupi-) ed, a number of his pieces were composed, chieflyit those which relate to love, a passion of whichil Burns was extremely susceptible. A part of his•fuineteenth year was spent at Kirkoswald, whitherhe had gone to learn mensuration, geometry,&c. Kirkoswald, which lies on the sea coast, wasat that time a great resort of smugglers, andBurns did not escape some contamination fromthe society he met with there. His brother Gil¬bert says, he observed from that period a changein his habits.u About this time,” says Gilbert, “ he and 1had for some years taken land of our father, forthe purpose of raising flax on our own account;and in the course of selling it Robert began tothink of turning flax-dresser, both as being suita¬ble to his grand view of settling in life, and assubservient to the flax-dressing.” Burns, ac¬cordingly, in pursuance of this resolution, wentto a relation of his mother’s, a flax-dresser in Ir¬vine, with the view of learning this trade, and fora time applied himself with great diligence. Buton a new year’s morning the shop caught fire,and was totally consumed, and he was left, inhis own words, “ like a true poet, not worth asixpence.” Three days before this unfortunatefire took place, he addressed a letter to his father,which contained much good sense and pious re¬flection. Among other things, he says, “ I ammore pleased with the 15th, 16th, and 17th ver¬ses of the seventh chapter of Revelations, thanwith any ten times as many verses in the wholeBible, and would not exchange the noble en¬thusiasm with which they inspire me for all thatthis world has to offer.”But some time, Bur ns had to undergo the pen¬ance then awar ded by the discipline of the Churchof Scotland for the birth of an illegitimate child.His conduct on this occasion was marked by a le¬vity which cannot be justified, and is only to beaccounted for on the supposition of his wishing to9brave out his shame in the eyes of his jovial asso¬ciates—for the tenderness and manliness of Burns’sgeneral feeling will not permit us to think thatsuch deportment was the deliberate expression ofhis mind.About three months before the death of WilliamBurns, Robert and Gilbert, who had for some¬time foreseen the storm that was thickening roundtheir father’s dwelling, came to the resolution ottaking the farm of Mossgiel, in the neighbouringparish of Mauchline, with the view of providingthe family with a shelter. It was stocked withtheir joint property and savings, but notwith¬standing all their exertions they could make lit¬tle out of it. It was during their residence atMossgiel, which continued four years, that Burnscomposed some of his most celebrated pieces. A-mong these were The Holy Tuilzie, or Twai Herds, Holy Willie’s Prayer, the Epistle toDavie, Death and Doctor Hornbook, the verses| to the Mouse and Mountain Daisy, the Cottar’sSaturday Night, &c. Among these are some ofthose pieces so remarkable for the poignancy oftheir satire and the breadth of their humour. Toexplain the causes which gave rise to such ofthese productions as glance upon religion, orrather upon certain teachers of religion, occasion¬ed by misunderstandings betwixt several of theleading clergy and the heritors,—among the lat-!0tar of whom was Burns’ landlord. As to the**pieces various opinions have been held—someheaping’ upon Burns the charge of irreligion, &c,while others have praised him for so meritoriousa task as the exposure of what they are pleasedto call hypocrisy and fanaticism. To the presengeneration it is not easy to convey an adequatanotion of the height to which parties ran in theWest Country at this period, nor of the acrimonythat was ingrafted on the polemical controversiesthen raging. These considerations should go farin the eyes of even the most austere to exculpateBurns from the charges alluded to, and inclinethem rather to impute to the fiery vehemence ofhis temperament those sallies which overleap thebounds of decorum—for that Burns, in spite ofthe levity of certain passages to be found in hisworks, was embued, and deeply embued, with thesolemn and contemplative thoughts which belongto religious feeling, and in the longrun generallyissue in strict religious principle, cannot fairly bedenied. But no one had, on the other hand, akeener perception of the ludicrous, and such pe¬culiarities in his opponents as offered a temptingmark for the shafts of the satirist were sure to betaken advantage of; at all events, the humour ofthese pieces is confessedly unrivalled. Hallow¬een, a descriptive poem, perhaps more exquisitelywrought than the Holy Fair, and containing11ifnnotbbig that could offend the feelings of any body,was produced about the same period.After residing some time at Mossgiel, he seemsto have perceived that the farm would at bestfurnish no more than the bare means of subsist¬ence to so large a family, and came at last to theresolution of trying his fortune in the West Indies.Jamaica was now his mark; and, through theinfluence of a friend in Irvine, he procured a sit¬uation as assistant overseer on a plantation in thatcolony. To defray his outfit, and other expenses,it now occurred to him, for the first time, to pub¬lish his poems, though of their yielding him anything he was extremely doubtful. They wereat length printed at Kilmarnock, the edition con¬sisting of 600 copies; and our poet, after payingall expenses, cleared about £20. In the mean¬time, his fame began to take a start, and copiesof his volume having fallen into the hands ofpeople of taste and judgment, a general inquiryabout him began to prevail, and it became anobject of desire with some of his friends to detainhim in his native country. With this view, aciappointment in the Excise, or some other publicoffice, was suggested; and Burns, it would ap¬pear, was not averse to fall in with their wishes-.Having been introduced about the same time alsoto the tables and acquaintance of several distin¬guished families, the originality and vigour of12his genius, which was displayed in his conversa¬tion no less than his poetry, began to be muchtallied of. Among the first to appreciate hispowers may be named the celebrated ProfessorDugald Stewart, Dr Hugh Blair, and above all,Mrs Dunlop of Dunlop, a lady of high birth andanj'j. le fortune, who was enthusiastically attachedto every thing which concerned the honour andinterest of her native country. The friendshipof this lady continued unabated to the day of thepoet’s death, and to her a large part of his let¬ters were addressed.In the meantime, the appointment in the Ex¬cise, which he had reason to hope for, being ashe thought rather slow in reaching him, Burnsbegan once more to resume the idea of pushinghis fortune in the West Indies, and made sever¬al preparations for that purpose. He even tookfare-well of some of his friends, and proceeded,as he himself informs us, to convoy his trunk sofar on the road to Greenock, where he was toembark in a few days for America. On this oc¬casion he composed the farewell dirge to his na^tive land, and which ends thus:—“ The bursting tears my heart declare,Farewell, the bonny banks of Ayr.”At this critical juncture of his life and fortunes,he was presented with a letter, addressed to afriend of his in the West, from the celebrated Dr13Blacklock of Edinburgh, himself a poet and manof fine genius, the subject of which was a mostflattering descant on the merits and genius ofBurns: and strongly advising that a second andmore perfect edition of his poems should be im¬mediately printed, and staking his reputation ontheir triumphant success. Under this encourage¬ment Burns instantly came to the resolution ofrepairing to the capital, which at that time wasthe residence, as it is now, of many of the mostdistinguished names that adorn the annals ofScottish literature. He was immediately intro¬duced by the kind Dr Blacklock, who receivedhim with all the warmth of paternal affection, tothe notice and acquaintance of the most eminentliterati. It was arranged that his second editionshould come out under the auspices of Mr Creech,then the first of the metropolitan booksellers; andthe merits of the work were previously madeknown in a criticism from the pen of the celebra-*ted Henry Mackenzie, author of The Man ofFeeling, which appeared in The Lounger, a cel¬ebrated periodical of the day. The Earl ofGlencairn, a nobleman of great affability andbenevolence, whose kindness Burnsacknowledgeswith grateful reverence, also made interest withthe Caledonian Hunt, (an association of most ofthe Scottish nobility,) to accept the dedicatioa14of the forthcoming edition, and to subscribe in-diridually for copies.On the 6th May 1787, after spending aboutsix months in the capital, Burns departed fromEdinburgh, in company with a friend, on a coun¬try excursion before he should return to AyrshireHis route was southward, and he visited in thecourse of his tour several distinguished families.He returned to Mauchline on the 8th July, wherehe remained but a few days, and undertook ano¬ther tour through the north. In this excursionhe was received with much courtesy at the housesof many eminent persons—among these were thenoble family of Argyle. On these occasions hecomposed some of his most admired lyrics. Afteranother visit to his family at Mossgiel he repaired,in March 1788, to Dalswinton, inDumfries-shire,the residence of Mr Miller, with whom he was intreaty for the lease of a farm on his estate. Ha¬ring part of the intervening months he had beenoccasionally in Edinburgh, as he says, to adjustmatters with his bookseller, although it is prettyclear that a visit to some of his old jovial compa¬nions was the true cause. After a good deal oftime lost between the arranging of his lease atDalswinton and settling with his bookseller, aperiod which from dift’erent causes he seems tohave spent rather wearily, his affairs came atlast to assume something like a definite shape.15The settlement of accounts with the booksellerput him in possession of £500 or £600, and theterms of agreement at Dalswinton being finallyarranged, he left Edinburgh for his new posses¬sion, having also in his pocket an excise commis¬sion as a further resource should he come to needit, which he had procured through the friendshipof Mr Graham of Fintry, one of the Commis-Isioners.At Whitsunday 1788, Burns entered upon hisnew farm, and in the following November broughthome Jean Armour, now Mrs Burns, whom he; had married some time previously, and for a timematters went on pretty smoothly. In several ofhis letters he speaks with much affection of hiswife, and of her admirable qualities. Many ofhis best pieces were composed here: and, on thewhole, the poet seemed in a fair way of obtain¬ing competence and such reasonable share of hap¬piness as man may look for. But the burningvehemence of his temperament, the keenness ofhis sensibility, and a constitutional melancholyi to which he had through all his life been subject,1 were often to him the source of uneasiness and' disquiet: This exhibiting to us how little to be; coveted is the possession of lofty talents and highi | genius even with all the fame and distinction theyconfer, when accompanied with such painfuldrawbacks; and affording a lesson of contentmentto those who are denied, and may feel disposedto envy, such dangerous gifts. “ The fate andcharacters of the rhyming tribe,” thus writes thepoet himself in 1793, “ often employ my thoughtswhen I am disposed to be melancholy. Thereis not among all the martyrologies that everwere penned so rueful a narrative as the lives ofthe poets. In the comparative view of wret¬ches, the criterion is not what they are doomedto suffer, but how they are formed to bear.Take a being of our kind, give him a strongerimagination and a more delicate sensibility, whichbetween them will ever engender a more ungov¬ernable set of passions than are the usual lot ofman; implant in him an irresistible impulse tosome idle vagary, such as arranging wild-flowersin fantastic nosegays, tracing the grasshopper tohis haunt by his chirping song, watching thefrisks of the little minnows in the sunny pool, orhunting after the intrigues of butterflies—inshort, send him adrift after some pursuit whichshall eternally mislead him from the paths oflucre, and yet curse him with a keener relish thanany man living for the pleasures that lucre canpurchase; lastly, fill up the measure of his woesby bestowing on him a spurning sense of his owndignity, and you have created a wight nearly asmiserable as a poet.” In these short sentencestol%wBurns has traced his own character far better thanany one else has done it since.The affairs of the farm did not long thrive,and, perceiving them going backwards, Burnsresolved to enter upon the duties of the Excise.He was accordingly appointed to Jo d ity in thatcapacity in the district where his own fann wassituated. His income was at first only £35, buthe still retained Elliesland. During the prosper¬ity of his farm Burns conducted himself wisely,and like one anxious for his name as a man, andhis fame as a poet. He went to Dunscore kirkon Sunday, and assisted in forming a readingclub. He also paid particular attention to theeducation of his children, and assisted them great¬ly himself. Afterwards, however, on the failureof his farming projects, the gloom which preyedon his spirits made him too often not unwillingto become the companion of the thoughtless andthe dissipated. Yet, in spite of these follies,Burns was never deserted by that deep feeling ofhonour and independence of spirit which led himalways to detest whatever was mean or base;and none could condemn more severely, or feeldeeper compunction and repentance for his errors,than he did himself.It was unfortunate for Burns that he about thistune got embroiled with the Excise, who haubeen informed of some rash expressions, and it is18believed rash actions, of which he was guilty in |relation to political matters. The French Re¬volution was then beginning to break out, anathe fascinating glare with which it was at firs'surrounded, misled, as every one knows, the |minds of many men of virtue and understanding, |and none more so, perhaps, than such as, likeour poet, were embued with the largest portionof philanthropy. The sickening horrors of thatsanguinary drama, as it came to unfold itself, ofcourse soon dispelled the illusion ; but at the earlyperiod we speak of, the Revolution came recom¬mended to the wishes and sympathies of many.1 he interest of his friends at the head of the Ex¬cise saved Burns, but his indiscretions were re¬membered for a time, and were the cause of muchuneasiness to him. He was also in the habit oindulging in jests on his new profession withoutmuch circumspection, but these were compara¬tively harmless. On one occasion, for instance,while glancing at what he considered the dis¬creditable nature of his employ, he said, “ I havethe same consolation, however, which I onceheard a recruting sergeant give to his auditorson one of the streets of Kilmarnock—“ Gentle¬men,” said he, “ I can assure you, for your fur-ther encouragement, that ours is the most black¬guard corps under the crown, consequentlyhonest man has the better chance of promoBut, in point of fact, Burns had too much dis¬crimination and good sense to cherish deeply theabsurd notions of equality and other trumpery,follies then prevalent, and he in many passagesof his correspondence distinctly avows that hisjacobinism, like the jacobitism of the present day,was more a thing of whim and fancy than any¬thing else: It chimed in more with the romanceof the poet than the judgment of the man.The concluding and most mournful part of oursketch must necessarily be brief. After continuing to hold the farm for some time after enteringon his new duties, he came to the resolution ofabandoning Elliesland, and betaking himself al¬together to the revenue. His salary was advan¬ced to £70; and although, as we have seen, Idscompany was a good deal broken in upon, it iswell known Burns discharged his duties withfaithfulness and accuracy. Towards the close of1790 he was employed as acting supervisor. Du¬ring part of that year his youngest child lingeredthrough an illness, of which every week promis¬ed to be the last, and when she was in the endcut off, the nerves of the poet, who had unceas¬ingly watched her with the fondest solicitude,were shattered to an unusual degree. A coldwhich he subsequently caught completed tin;measure of his ill health, and from this periodmay be dated the commencement of that gradualdecay which terminated in his death. Of thisapproaching event he was perfectly sensible, andmany of his letters at this time breathe the ten=derest strains of resignation and piety. One ofthese is as follows :—“ Are you deep in the language of consolation ?I have exhausted in reflection every topic of com¬fort. A heart at ease would have been charmedwith my sentiments and reasonings; but as tomyself, I was like Judas Iscariot preaching thegospel; he might melt and mould the hearts ofthose around him, but his own kept its native in¬corrigibility.—Still there are two great pillarsthat bear us up, amid the wreck of misfortuneand misery. The one is composed of the differ¬ent modifications of a certain noble, stubbornsomething in man, known by the names of cour¬age, fortitude, magnanimity. The other ismade up of those feelings and sentiments, which,however the sceptic may deny, or the enthusiastdisfigure them, are yet, I am convinced, origin¬al and component parts of the human soul; thosesenses of the mind, if I may be allowed the ex¬pression, which connect us with, and link us tothose awful obscure realities—an all powerful andequally beneficent God—and a world to come,beyond death and the grave. The first gives thenerve of combat, while a ray of hope beams on21the field;—the last pours the balm of comfort in¬to the wounds which time can never cure.“ I do not remember, my dear Cunningham,that you and I ever talked on the subject of re¬ligion at all. I know some who laugh at it, asthe trick of the crafty few, to lead the undis¬cerning many ; or at most as an uncertain ob*1 scurity, which mankind can never know anythingof, and with which they are fools if they givethemselves much to do. Nor would I quarrelwith a man for his irreligion, any more than II would for his want of a musical ear. I wouldregret that he was shut out from what, to mei and to others, were such superlative sources ofenjoyment. It is in this point of view, and forthis reason, that I will deeply imbue the mind ofevery child of mine with religion. It my sonI should happen to be a man of feeling, sentiment,and taste, I shall thus add largely to his enjoy-Iments. Let me flatter myself that this sweetlittle fellow who is just now running about mydesk, will be a man of a melting, ardent, glow-! ing heart: and an imagination, delighted withthe painter, and rapt with the poet. Let mefigure him, wandering out in a sweet evening,to inhale the balmy gales, and enjoy the growingluxuriance of the spring; himself the while inthe blooming youth of life. He looks abroad onall nature, and through nature up to nature’*22God. His soul, by swif delighted degrees, israpt above this sublunary sphere, until he can besilent no longer, and bursts out into the gloriousenthusiasm of Thomson,‘These, as the change, Almighty Father, theseAre but the varied God The rolling yearIs full of theeand so on, in all the spirit and ardour of thatcharming hymn.—These are no ideal pleasures;they are real delights; and I ask what of the de¬lights among the sons of men are superior, not tosay, equal to them ? And they have this precious,vast addition, that conscious virtue stamps themfor her own ; and lays hold on them to bring lier-self into the presence of a witnessing, judging,and approving God.”Alluding one day to his expected dissolution,he said, ho was well aware that his death wouldoccasion some noise, and that every scrap of hiswriting would be revived against him to the in*jury of his future reputation; that letters andverses written with unguarded, and improperfreedom, and which he earnestly wished to haveburied in oblivion, would be handed about by idlevanity or malevolence, when no dread of his re¬sentment wrould restrain them, or prevent the cen¬sures of shrill-toiigued malice, or the insidioussarcasms of envy froii. pouring forth all theirvenom to blast his fa'n23From a Tillage on the coast, where he hadgone for the benefit of sea-bathing, he returnedto Dumfries, the place of his residence, on the18th of July 1796, with his constitution fast wear¬ing out. In the words of an eye-witness, “ Dum¬fries was like a besieged place. It was knownhe was dying, and the anxiety, not of the richand the learned only, but of the mechanies andpeasants, exceeded all belief. Wherever two oithree people stood together, their talk was ofBurns, and of him alone. They spoke of hishistory—of his person—of his works—of his fam¬ily—of his fame—and of his untimely and ap-; proaching fate, with a warmth and an enthusiasmwhich will ever endear Dumfries to my remem-: brance.”When approaching his last nour, says one ofhis biographers, on the authority of the physicianI who attended him, “ a tremour pervaded his frame,< his tongue was parched, and his mind sunk intodelirium when not roused by conversation. Onthe second and third day the fever increased, andhis strength diminished.’ On the fourth day,July ‘21st 1796, Robert Burns died.On the 25th, the remains of the poet were re-moved to the Trades’ Hall, where they lay instate till morning, and next day were interredwith military honours, attended by a processioof the chief persons in the town and24hood, and many from great distances. Themultitude,” says an eye-witness who accompaniedBurns to the grave, “ went step by step with thechief mourners. They might amount to ten or I;twelve thousand. Not a word was heard, It wasan impressive and mournful sight to see men ofall ranks, and persuasions, and opinions, ming¬ling as brothers, and stepping side by side downthe streets of Dumfries with the remains of himwho had sung of their loves and joys, and dom¬estic endearments, with a truth and a tendernesswhich none perhaps have since equalled.—I foundmyself at the brink of the poet’s grave. Theearth was heaped up, the green sod laid over him,and the multitude stood gazing on the grave forsome minutes’ space, and then melted silentlyaway.”A costly mausoleum has since been erected tothe memory of the poet, on the highest point ofground in the church yard, and thither the remainsof Burns were solemnly transferred on the 5thJune 1815.