THE/3Comical AdventuresOF THE LATEVlr James Spiller ComedianA TEPSOM, in ENGLAND.A TRUE HUMOROUS TALE.TO WHICH IS ADDED,THE PLEASANT STORYO F)BADIAH MOUSETRAP.T—  —  — —  True humour is a thing fo hard.It merits wifeft. men’s regard ;And is fo near ally’d to wit.That many have miilook it for’t, ,For tho* wit’s e’er fo entertaining,’Tis bell with humour for it’s lining.Anonym.GLASGOW,PRINTED by J. &M. ROBERTSON, SaWket,i8co./\)A.iW^./tk. 4«None fo deaf as thofs who will noi hear.A true humourous Tale, and Proverexemplified in the following merrStory of Mr. James Spiller, Cgmedian of facetious Memory.AS the art of true humour is verdifficult to attain, and very rarely met with, I {hall prefent my readers with the following quotation othat fubjedt from the Spectator.—* Among all kinds of writings, there arnone in which authors are more aj:to mifearry than in works of humousas there is none in which they armore ambitious to excel. It is not aimagination that teems with mohfteran.head that is filled with extravagarconceptions, which is capable of filing the world with diverfions in thinature; and yet, if we look into t’produdlions of feveral writers, who fup tor men of humour, what wild iregular fancies, what unnatural diThe comical Adventures, &c0 3tortions of thoughts do we meet with lIf they fpenk nonfenfe, they believethey are talking humour, and whenthey have drawn together a fcheme ofinconfiftant ideas, they are not ableto read it over to themfelves withoutlaughing. Thefe poor gentlemen en¬deavour to gain themfelves the repu¬tation of wits and humourifh, byfuch monftrous conceptions as almodqualifies them for Bedlam : Not ccn-fidering, that humour Ihould alwaysbe under the check of reafon, and thatit requires the direction of the niceftjudgement, by fo much the more asit indulges idelf in the moft bound-lefs freedoms. There is a kind ofnature to be obferved in this fort ofcompofition, as well as in all others,and a certain regularity of thoughtwithin, mud difcover the writer to bea man of fenfe, at the (ame time thathe appears altogether given up, to ca¬price. For my part, when 1 read thedelirious mirth of an unfkilful au¬thor, 1 cannot be fo barbarous as todivert myfelf with it; but am ratherapt to pity the man that laughs at a-ny thing he writes.— It is indeed.4 The comical Adventures ofmuch eafier to defcribe what is nothumour, than what it is; and very dif¬ficult to define it any otherwife, thanas Gowly has done wit—by negatives.*For a further definition of humour,and a beautiful comparifon betweentrue humour and falfe humour, Iwould recommend my readers to theremaining part of the above fpecula-tion, and fhall proceed to my ftory.In the fummer feafon, Mr. Spillerwas one day riding to Epfom, and inthe evening met with an intimate ac¬quaintance of his, who was return¬ing fome three or four miles fromthat town, where (but i know notupon what occafion, except the races)it was fo prodigioufly full of compa¬ny, that he could not get accommo¬dation for himfelf or his horfe uponany account. After fome bttle cere¬mony had patTed between them, thegentleman afked Mr. Spiiler where hewas bound for ? Who anfwered him,to Epfom.—What, fays his friend, doyou intend to flay there all night ?—•Yes Sir, replied Mr. Spiller, you maybe fure of that.—Why then, returnedMr. James Spiller Comedian. 5the gentleman, if you do, you mufftake beds with you, bo/h for yourfeifand borfe too, except you are thereprovided for already, or elfe you willfind that vou muft do I have done,that is to fay, come back again : Ihave tryed every place in the town,and there is not one bed to be got forlove or money, as the faying is.V\\ lay a wager, replied Mr. Spiller,that I get a lodging both for myfelfand my horfe too, let the town be e-ver fo full ; and that too, in one ofthe beft inns in the town.—Perhaps,faid the gentleman, you may have onealready there belpoke.-——No indeedI Sir, replied Mr. Spiller, I have not, Ican affure you, nor am I acquaintedwith any perfon that lives in the town,to the beft of my knowledge.—Whythen, faid the gentleman, I’ll lay youa gallon of claret, that you don’t liein the town to night, i mean in a bed ;cr get your horfe put into a ftablethere.—Done Sir, faid Mr. Spiller, I’lllay you a gallon of claret that 1 do :and that too, in one of the beft innsin the town: And if you will favour6 The comical Adventures ofme with your ;ompany, and returnback with me* you lliall fee yourielfthat 1 will.—No, no, - replied the gen¬tleman, 3’li r«ke your own word forit; and the nrft time we meet in Lon¬don? if we have time, we’ll have ourwager, and a bird to make us merryover the hiftory of this night’s adven¬ture;—with all my heart, icplied Mr.Spiller: Which fign do you reckon isthe beft, for that (hall be the place Imean to lodge at ?—After the gentle¬man had fatisfied him in that point,they confirmed their wager, and fothey parted.i jWhen Mr. Spiller came to the innwhere he was directed by his friend,he rides dire dll y into the yard, andcalling aloud for the holller, he foundit quite taken up with other guefts,andevery body in fuch hurry and confu-fion, that no creature offered to attend• Kim, or fee for any body that would.With that he alights from his Ro-finante, and leads him diredlly intoa liable, which was before fo full ofherfes, that there was not room forMr jaines Spiller Comedian, 7him pnfliblv to lie down, but how¬ever, there he meets the hoftler, withwhom he begins his humour, in themanner following. Here, friend, takepare of this horle, and do you hear,liet him be well rubbed down.—Sir,anfwered the bohier, you fee that thetables are already quite full; here isbo room for him ; nor have I any o •iher place where there is more.—Well,well, faid Spiller, you may do fo then,If you pleafe, rub him down well,and give him fome hay now% and a-hout half an hour lienee, give him aquarter of corn and fome beans. Sir,faid the hoftler again, I tell you, hereis no room for him, nor will I take a-ly charge of him. Ay, do, do, re«.Oiied Mr. Spiller, if thou thinkeft fo,'3Ut fome bran arnongd his corn withIdi my heart. Sir, faid the hoftler,roaring as loud as ever he could, im¬agining that he was deaf) 1 tell you:;hat I’ll not take any charge of yournorfe ; and if you don’t take him a-vay with you, I’ll turn him out cf thelable, and let him go to the devil iftie will.——Why, thou art an honeft,'enfible, good natur’d young fellow,8 The comical Adventures ofreplied Mr. Spider, and I’ll leave 1enrirely ro thee: But be fiire do nollet my h rle be changed.—Curfe you jdeaf head! quoth the hofiltr; yojmay be d—’cl, and your hone too, Jvvilh you were both in he’d rogevhe;jHere Mr. Spiller to( k tiot the leadnotice of what the hofticr had faid thim but left the horfe with him ithe flable, and goes himfelf diredll Iinto the hcufe to get iomething tdrink.. And the hoftlei reliedling, that jthe horfe fhould be loft, he migbfwear that he left him in his charge[and might: by that means, come upo:idm for damages, he therefore tiei;him up to the manger, gave him fcmi3iay, and then ran into the houfe, tacquaint his miftrefs (for fhe waswidow) what ft range and deaf od«fort of a fellow fhe had got to deawith. By this time, Mr. Spiller wa:come into the kitchen, and had juicalled for a pint of red wine, but thgood hoftefs being in a hurry, anfwered him, that fhe was very lorry thajihe had no place to afk him to fit dowifMr. James Spilter Comedian. 9in. When he, not willing to under-ftand her, replied,—’tis all one to me»madam, if your red wine is not good,[let me have a pint of white. Juft ashe had made this contrary anfwer, in|comes the hoftler, and as his miftrefsiwas endeavouring to make Mr. Spillerimiderftand what Ihe had to fay to[him, the hoftler cried out to her,—jAy, d—n his deaf head, madam, youjmay fpend as much of your breath asyou pleafe to talk to him, but he willnever hear a word you fay: I havebeen plagued with him this hour in^he liable about his d—n’d horfe, andthough I roared out in his deaf ears asiloud as ever I could, till I had almoft:jfplit my throat, I could not make himlunderftand me one word, and there’sihis horfe Hill in the liable, I dare not([urn him out, for fear he fliould beioft, and the deaf fon of a b—h Ihouldifwear that I took charge of him. Lord! cried the hoftefs, I do not knowflow we lhall get Ihut of him.— •Troth, madam, anfwered the heft¬ier, 1 fancy it will be bell to let himiilone, and give him nothing that hebails for to eat or drink, and perhapsto The comical adventures ofthat may Icon tire him of being herJThe hoftler’a advice was tlioughjvery good, and therefore refoived owby his miftrefs to be put in executionSo there flood poor Spilier, for fqniitime, flaring about him, and coul«neither get a feat to fit down, nor an;thing to drink; but by and by, ob!ferviug the fervants to carry out othe kitchen a cover of fmoking hodifhes, he immediately follows theninto a room, where there was aboutwenty gentlemen going to flipperSo, as foon as he came into the roomhe pulled off his hat, and after hanging it upon a peg, he flood there amute as a flOi. At length, one of thgentlemen obferving him, and aliithat he was a ftranger, demanded.—Who does this gentleman want ?Bat they all flared at him for fomtime, but nobody claiming any knowledge of him, one of them faid to himSir, we are here a feledl company, d<you want any body, pray ?———N*ceremony with me, replied Mr. Spinler, I beg gentlemen, that y«u wi$not difturb yourfelves upon my acMr. James Spiller Comedian, r icount, I can. fit any where. D—nthe fellow! fays another of them, whatdoes he mean ? Turn him out of theroom! The fervants being all bufyat his firft coming into the room, pla¬cing die dithes on the table, and put¬ting things to rights, had not obferv-ed his coming in before; but nowhearing the gentlemen difpute, theyfoon found the caufe of it, and there¬upon faid one of them,—Lord, gentle¬men ! you will get no fatisfaction byIwearing and quarreling with him ;for he is fo deaf, that you may fire acannon at his ear, and he will not hearyou. He has been in the kitchen thishour, but nobody can make him un-derftand a word that any body faysto him. They have been ready toknock out his brains feveral times, buthe never underftood them in the lead;he is a poor fimple honed fellow, Idare fay, but what has brought himhere, the Lord knows; or how you willget him down again, the Lord knows.—Well, well cried one of them, whatdoes it fignify ! ’Tis better to let himday here, now heTs here; he lookslike an inoffenfive gentleman, and asi? The cimlcal Adrenrures ofhe is fo deaf, we may be fure that hewill not be offended at any thing thatis faid in company, nor fhonld we getany great honour in throwing himi down flairs.This fpeech met with fo general anapprobation, that they all fat downto fupper, and let their deaf vifitantquietly partake with them, which wemay fay, was another point gained.So after they had fupped, and had fatdrinking wine and punch, and otherliquors, for about the fpace of an hour,Spiller got up, and with great cere¬mony thanked them all round for theirvery good company, and then throwsdown his (hilling upon the table, forhis (hot. At which one of them roar¬ed out, as loud as he could bellow.—Z——ds, Sir! What do you mean bya (hilling! A (hilling will not do, nortwo neither! Six (hillings a head willhardly pay the reckoning.Why now, gentlemen, reply’d Mr. ISpiller, it does not iignify making' a j;multitude of words, for upon my loulI will be my (hilling, if you were to IMr. James Spiller Comedian. 13alk till to-morrow; therefore no apo-ogies; gentlemen; I fcorn to fpungejpon any body.—Here after fome ftir,:hey found it was but in vain to talkwith him, fo they were forced to takethe fhilling, and be contented.ISome little time after, when Mr.ppiller was returned to the kitchen, ashis eyes were rolling about, he efpiedione of the maids with a pan of coalsin her hand (at which he inwardlyrejoiced) fo watching his opportunity,:he (links eafily after her, quite unper¬ceived by the girl; till when {he waswarming the bed, he fays to her,——What, is this the room that I am toilie in?—At this unexpedted demand,I the poor girl, in the utmoft furprizeI to fee him there, replied to him, asI loud as Ihe could roar,—No, Sir; thisI bed is for two gentlemen who are jufti coming into the room, and has beenI hired for them this month. Very well,; my dear, faid Mr. Spiller, I like it' very well, and I hope the ftieets arewell aired ; but where is my night¬cap ? At Hell, quoth the girl, forought I know, and I wiOi you were*4 Tne comical Adventures ofthere too! for I am fare you are |worfe plague than the Devil: iiufid—n your deaf head! I will have you <neck broke down ftairs prefently. iWith that away fhe flies, with thH■warming-pan in her hand, as fall a£he could, to inform her miflrefs an«:the two gentlemen, what befel her.—+•Madam, faid flie, yonder is that curled dunny man, that has plagued thwhole houfe fo, has followed me flibup flairs in fuch a room, where I wa$going to warm the bed for the twcgentlemen, and I cannot for my liftget him down again./So away flies her Miflrefs up ftairs:full drive, and the two gentlemen,who had befpoke the room along withher. But when they came to the door,to their great difappointment, theyfound it both locked and bolted; andhe had alfo drawn a great cheft ofdrawers againfl it, and placed a greatwainfcot table againfl the drawers,and feveral chairs upon them: So that#he gentlemen, at this baulk, were ina terrible paflion, and drove to burftMr. Janies Spiiler Comedian,the door open : But it being a thickoak door, and fo ftrongly ftayed with¬in, it was too much for them to ac-complilh. So, after they had bounc¬ed againft it half a dozen of times tono purpofe, they flood to liften whe¬ther they could learn what he was a-bout; and Spiller at the fame timerightly guefling what their fudden fi-lence was for, fays to himlelf (but loudenough for them to hear him) thepublic inns are fometimes very dan¬gerous places, and a man cannot betoo fecure in them; but tho’ I havethe misfortune to have loft my hear¬ing, I think they cannot eafily maketheir way through that ftrong door,and that heavy cheft of drawers, andall the other things which I have putagainlt them; and if they fhould,they can want nothing but to rob andmurder me, I am fure.When they all heard this, the hoft-efs gravely faid to the two gentlemen.—Gentlemen ! Do you hear this ! Iam glad you did not force open thedoor, with all my heart; for if youhad, we might have been all ruined.16 The comical Adventures ofWhat could be done with fuch a man ?One of the gentlemen, being a practi¬tioner of the law, anfwered the hoft-efs thus,—By G—d, madam, you arevery much in the right of it; for al¬though he has no right to the roomhe is in, yet, as this is a public inn,and he being in pofTeffion of it, tobreak open a door upon him, wouldbe fuch an aiTault, as I fliould notcare to be concerned in for an hun¬dred pounds. This fpeech of the law¬yer’s loon determined the matter, fordown they all went very quietly, andleft Mr. Spiller fecure enough in hislodgings.In the morning when Mr. Spillercame down, he very complaifantly bidthem all a good morrow, and they inreturn, all curfed him heartily for hisgood humour, and called him a thou-fand bad names j but he underftand-ing never a word that they faid, it wasall given to the wind. Here, he de-lired half a pint of white wine madehot, with an egg beat up in it for hisbreakfalt, and then giving the hoftlera fliilling for looking after his horfe,Mr. James opiller Comedian. 17and a fhiliing to the maid for warm¬ing his bed, he mounted his nag. Andbeing now fettled in his faddle hedefired the good hoftefs to give him aglais of brandy, which (he did : Andhe drank to her very good health, i en-dering her his hearty thanks for hergreat civility. But while Ihe floodtalking with him, for that little fpace,having an occafion to break wind, andnot' dreaming that he could be at allinformed of the report, an ! recoverhis heanng fo eafily, fhe never floodupon ceremony, but let By at once,with the report of a demi-cannon Atthis vociferatious falute, Spiller re¬turned,—Well laid, madam, By hea¬ven that was a rouzer, I hope madamyou are better, I never heard a morebanging f—t in my life.G—d curfe you ! cried the hoflefs,is this you that was deaf all night,and can hear a f—t in the morning ?You fcoundrel dog! you richly deferveyour brains knocked our.—Here herpaflion was fo great, that ihe couldnot contain herfelf; fo while Ihe waslooking about for fomething to throw5 8 Ob ad iah Mo life trap •at his head, lie threw her down the.fixpence for his brandy, turned hishorfe, and, after repeating thefe words,—None, madam, fo deaf, as thofe“ who will not hear,”—he rode out ofthe yard as fad as he well could, leav¬ing the whole houfe in the greateftalarm imaginable.And he fairly won his wager, andmaintained himfelf undifcovered tothe very laft.OBADIAH MOUSETRAP.Quoth Hudibras, the caufe is clear,—As thou haft proved by their pradlice, ■No argument like matter of fadl is $And we are belt of all led toMen’s principles by what they do.Hud.'I T is moP certain that men’s adlionsJ: fpeak their principles the plained:,and it is not what we fay, but whatwe do, that wife men judge by j andtherefore the following ftory may bea proper lelTon for the unwary to takeObadiah Moufetrap.>9iotice of. Ingratitude is certainly onef the word fins that a man can bejuiity of, and in a very fpecial man-■er, when it is committed in a breachf truft, under the perfon who givesaem bread for life. If then, i fay,uch an one fliould be fm nd betray-hg his mailer’s trull, a d yieldingp any right of his, for a lordid andaultry bribe ; if the perl'cn who hadeduced him, Ihould then fight himidth his own weapons, and trick himf his covenanted reward and nrijulllire, as my reader v/ill find was theafe in the following dory; Such aterfon, I fay, if he Ihould break arti-les with him, and bilk him of hisimjud and criminal expectations, isather to be commended than the o-her pitied. There is no creature uponhe face of the earth fo guilty of this:ritne, ingratitude, as mankind. E-i^en the mod furious of wild beads,lire civilized by gratitude, and willlot hurt their benefatdors and pro¬viders. But man is daily giving upa is father, mother, wife, children,:nend, nay, and his whole country,for a mere trifle. Let every man, thus20 Obadiali Moufetrap.guilty, put the queftion to himfeland then confider it well, whether hthinks, (though he he called to no account for it in this life) the cries an*groans of fucceeding generations thalie under the cppreffions and diftrefswhich he before had caufed, anctbrought upon them, will have no im*preffion upon his final JUDGE, thamay move him to reward and punillhis treafons ? That man who woulrfell his trull, I am perfuaded, woulcnot boggle at any thing for gain; thaiis, I mean, if he could conceive him-felf fecure from the power of the law jand therefore, the following proceed¬ings of our good friend ObadiahMoufetrap, will, in my opinion, bethe eafier juftified, or at leait excufed.Our friend Obadiah Moufetrap,whowas a Quaker, and a commander ofa trading veflel, was juft returnedfrom a voyage, into the river of Lon¬don, when he had a couple of cuftom-houfe officers, as is ufual, immedi¬ately c'-ipr on board him : But it hap¬pened, that two or three days after,the fly old fox had af mind to foundObadiah Moufetrap. 21•ie depth of thofe worthy gentlemen’s<onefty ; whether with any view totrve his own intereft, 1 (hall leave myfeader to judge of. So one day, as heras walking upon the deck with them,nd talking of indifferent things, he\ys to one of them, (we’ll fuppofeim whom he thought propereft totegin with) friend, wilt thou go into;iy cabin, and drink a glafs of rum ?1 have a calk of that which is quite!eat, if thou wilt come and talle it,md give me thy opinion of it, I (hallje obliged to thee. The officer com-ilied, and they each of them drank adal's or two of it; and which the of-•cer very much praifed. The Quaker■erceiving his fpirits a little elivated,nd believing him in a proper cue foris purpofe, pul ed out of his pocketgreen purfe, with about lixty guineasi it, fays he. Friend, as far as 1 canerceive of thee, thou appeared to be| perfon of quick fight and good un-■lerfiandiug ; therefore I ihall haveto occafion to make a multitude ofrcrds, where l only wilh to Ipeak,ad ftraight be underltood. Thou;:elt this green purfe, and what it12 Obadiah Moufetrap.contains ; if tHee, and thy brothofficer will give me thy company fone half hour, only to drink a ho¬of this rum, made into what they Cipunch, this purfe and all its con ten(hall be thine, as foon as the bowlout; fo confider as thou thinkefl: prper: If thou ordered: me to fill t!bowl, 1 fliall know what thou mea:eft, and will, not only immediateobey thee, but will alfo fully malgood my word. The officer here gahim a node of underftanding, and it:mediately communicated this propfal to his trufty companion ; and, ater fome private confabulation, th«agreed to the captain’s propofal; arthe former of thefe two, gave himhe had hinted, a fignal for the bowwhich was compounded in a minutAs foon as this was ordered, the Quker gave his inftrudtions to his maaccordingly, and a boat was prefenJy hauled up clofe a-ftern, and w.put off again for fhore, before tlbowl was near confumed.Now our honeft friend, ObadhMoufetrap, being informed by hOb3.(11 ah Moufetrap. 23mate, and thoroughly Tati shed withivvhat in this interval had been tranf-la&ed, produced the green purfe, and(delivered it to the perfon to whom hehad promifed: But, O dire difappoint-ment and confufion ! Behold the un¬certainty of this world, inftead of real‘gold, in honed weighty guineas, im-oftured brafs filled up their room, inafhy counters all. At fight and prooff this, how did the invenomedongues of the deceived begin to rave!heir eyes ftruck fire, and their wholeifappointed frames began to fliakeith refentment. But our good friendv)badiah Moufetrap, being afiiiled byjihe fpirit, foon found a way to coolheir intemperate pafiions; 1 perceive,ays he, my friends, that you haveioeen deceived in me, as I have beenn you, and have underftood in earn¬ed, what I meant in jed ; is it rea¬sonable to imagine, (I appeal to yourown refleclion) that 1 could be fo weaktils to give you a purfe,of real gold for:he good fervices of drinking up myifwoperty ? No, 1 think not, however,J.is you were both drange s to’ me, 1had a mind to make a trial of yourL24 Obadiah Moufetrap.honefty. I know that you woul*think 1 had fome illicit buhnefs t*tranfa<5l, worthy of giving fuch a prefent, for an opportunity to do it inbut ye are both miftaken, I nerewronged my king nor my country iimy life, I look upon you both as perfons that hath infamoufly forfeite«the truft repofed in you, and are liable of being feverely punifhed for itwhich, if 1 was to be as cruel to yoi(by informing againft you) as yo\have been to me, by fufpe&ing thaI would wrong the King of his duethat mull unavoidably be the cafebut 1 fcorn fuch an adlion, thoughdefpife your principles.——Howevermy friends, I would admoniih yoito be more honed, and more upotyour guard for the future, which wilefte<5lually com pleat my good intention by this experiment.FINIS.GLASGOW,Printed by J. & M. ROBERTSONSaltraarket, xSoo.