1TO WHICH ARB AD176D,* > ■ - 'LORD HOWE’S VICTORY,The LAiSrS of HUMBER-SIDE.JENNY MAY.G L A S G O WrPRINTED* BfV Jl &VI. ROBERTSON,% At i8oz’.THE UNHAPPY COUPLE.YO U lovers all pray give attention,_ to thofe few lines which I am toldsIPs of two lovers hlaftcd in :hnr glory,all for the lake of curfcd gold.Twas known I was courted by many,.both Lords and Knights that to me came.But l fould never fancy anyfave honed John, my Father’s groom.My love is both Call and handfome,he is well fhap’d in every limb ;Could I but obtain the King’s ranfom,I ne’er wou’d fancy any but him."Fwas near the famous town of Reading,it was the place where we were join’d.And there .in privat* we dole a wedding,which proved to us the mod: unkind.We had no friends for to attend us,but Nelly who was my* waiting maid jWe then jointly did invite her,'-this artful girl our love betray’d#Then Nelly wrote a private letter,to let my ^ruel Father know,Of the place where we were joined ;which prov’d our fatal overthrow.We’d not fpent many liours alone,before my cruel Father came jAnd in a paflion llraight he fiew,calling my husband John by name.O ! then he cad him into priCon ;with chains and fetters bound bias fad,And by the law be was oblig’dto {utter death then at the lad.Then, it was my Father’s pieafure,to place me where my love did die ;For to behold his execution,the more me for to terrify.But vvueri l faw my lover coming,furrounded to the gallows-tree,'I hen my poor heart that was within me,ieem’d to die as well as he.But when my fenfes I recover’d,the execution for to fee jThis l faid my friends have aded,well may 1 fay they’ve ruin’d me.Now let this my lamentation, .to old and young both far and near,And from the higheft reputation,in love don’t crofs your children dear.Led it at lad may prove their ruin,as my dear parents they b.«”e done.Wit and beauty is fo engaging,lo r i$ fc.fvt\r*3 one can &nn.( 4 ) ;And now this Lady's gone diftra&ed,and unto bedlam fhe is thrown ;For'the fake of h<»r dearefl Johnny,both day and night fhe’s making moan.LORD HO vVE'S VIC rORF.» * p'COME all you gallant hearts of gold,'_ 4 glorious tale ! will unfold.Of Howe, who fought the French fo bold.On board of the Queen Charlotte jThe firft of June this began,And gallant Howe he led the van } ’Our fhot did play fo her that day,Monfienrs they fwore they would not flay.In vain they ftrove to run away.For Howe took care they (hodld not.The Charlotte, with Lord Howe therein.This fierce encounter did begin,So bravely threw their broadfides in,Againft the 5?rench Commander!Who found the fight io hot that day.That he could not withftand the fray.So from the adion bore away.And fwore he would no longer flay,For he was no Salamander.Seven fhips fell in our hands that daj',£o crippled could not get away,Like logs they on the Tea did ly,S,o wano was their itception;( 5 )file L/Juft and Sans ParieUejae America and bold ichi’lc,:i£y were Jo maul'd 'hey could not fail,Fill manned by Britilh lailors*te Northumberland and Impeteaux,ere happy to be ta’en in tow,:ie Vv-ngeure Ihe went down below.To (hun our British valour;vo of them carried eighty guns,: ve feventy-fours, and ninety guns,! jzza ! huzza! their admiral runs.He could get no redemption.»rave Bower, Pafiey, and Captain Halt*llich loft a leg., and forely hurt;lit life or death they valu’d not..When called by their country;rave Montague was kill'd that day.Kill while their (hot did hotly play,ffe gave three cheers with loud huzza,nefe French dogs could not run away.We had fo bravely maul'd them.F French fhips there were twenty-fix,i 'hen firft upon them we did fix,re valu’d not their Galic tricks,Tho’ we’d but twenty-five. Sir jm, like true Britilh Heroes bold,!rho value honour more than gold,ad always fcorn to be controul’d,1 ur courage has been try’d of old,Succefs to England’s forces.■ ( 6 )Now fmcc thefe prizts arc brought in.In honour of Grc»t Georgs our King,'Eh praife of l^ord ^Eow; let us fmg.And every gallant Car, Sir jFor they will always win th^ day.And drive the boafling French away.To face our guns they durft not ftay,i?o give three cheers with a loud huzza,Drink fuccds to England's forces*The LASS o? HUMBER-SIDEIN lonely cot, by Humber-fide,l fit and mourn my hours awayjFor confiant Will was Peggy's pride,and now he fleeps in Iceland Bay.Chor. Still as the fnips pafs to and fro,I fondly lift to yo, ya, yo ;, Still as the iliips pafs to and fro,i fondly lilt to yo, ya, yo.Yo, ya, yo, Yo, ya, yo, Yo, ya, ]Six months on Greenland’s icy coafi,where half the year is dreary night.He toil'd for me, and oft would boaft,that Peg'gy was his foie delight. &c.Ah! woe is me! I often cry,as thro’ th* broken panes f peep.And ?s the- affiant fails ! lpy\I think on dcarefi; Wii! and weep. & ■loud and {Welting ftorms I heard,as oa my lonefome bed i iay’d,ii night alone for Vilt l fear'-.f,a41 night for Will alone l pray’d*Chor Still as the (hips, &c.he-bride*knot which my love did wear,ilo'ofe hung a pendant o’er my door,ad when it told 'he wind wfair,1 fancy’d foon hcM be on fliore.Chor. Still as the (hips, &c.t length the very (hip I fpyM,i in which my conhant VVill had fail’d,/ith hule 1 ran to lumber-Jidc.and loud and oft the failois hail’d :: he deck they travers’d to and fro,i and ar.fwcr’d nought but yo, y-x, yo.ihe boatfwain, now. full near the fhore,ll l afk d for VVi!l—he fhook his head :'lear faid l, he is no more—-f his anfwer was, P.ior W*U is dead!’*r*h me! 1 fell, opprefj’d W’ith wfoe!| atid heard mo more their yo, ye, yo.J E N N Y M A Y.iHen Pha bus fuff falutest the ea(f,jj * t and dew-drops deck, each thorn,Vhen ploughmen fluke off dowmy ref!:,and humeri wind the horn :( r ) «TLen light as air ! feek the fhade,whence ghdes thV fifver fay.And tune my piph to that fwect maid,whofe name is Jt-nny May.At noon, when fultry Sol is found,to fcorth 1^? verdant plain;When nibling flocks are panting round,and feent to live in pain ;Then Ihelfer'd in the ftrawr thatch’d cot,1 pafs the time away:The higheft folk fienvy not,give me but Jenny May,When riding down the diftant Weft,the god of light declines.By many varied ftreaks confeft,delightfully he fhines ;With nymphs and Ihepherds op the plain,I ftill am blvthe and gay;But yet my foftefl: fweetefic drain,muft flow to Jenny May.In fpring. in fummer, autumn too,in winter^ furieft rage.Days, hours, and months I’ll dill purfae,my fancy to engage :For ev'ry moment, ev'ry hour,and ev*ry pafling day,Shall while kind Nature gives me povf'r,be true to Jenny May.Printed byJ.Sc M; RObERTSON, Gaittaarket, r8oj.