T H EWonderful ConferencesWHICH PASSED BETWEEN THEGhoft of Mr. Maxwell of Cool,and theRev. Mr. Ogilvy of Innerwiek,AS ITWas found in Mr. OGIL^ Y’S Closet, af¬ter his Death, and written'by his own Hand.GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. Sc M. ROBERTSON, [No. 20.Saltmasket, iSo2.( 2 )THEi WONDERFUL CONFERENCESGHOST of Mr. MAXWEL of COOL,Rev. Mr. OGILVY of INNERWICK.PON the 3d day of February 1724,at feven o’clock at night, after I hadparted Wit ft Thurftor, and was coming up theBurial Road, one came riding after me; up¬on h, iring the noife of the horfe’s feet, I tookit to be Thurdon ; but locking back, andfeeing the hone of a grey colour, I called,who’s there? The anfwer vas, The Laird ofCool, be not afraid : Looking to him with thelittle light the moon afforded, I took him tobe the Colletffor of Caftle Law, who had amind to put a trick upon me, and immediate¬ly I ftruck with all my force, with my cane,thinking I would leave a mark upon him thatwould make him remember his preffimption ;but being fenfible, I aimed as well as ever Idid in my life, yet my cane, finding no refiff-ance, fiew out of my hand to the diftarce ofWHICH PASSED BETWEEN THEAND THEfixtyConferences between Cool and Ogilvy. %fixty feet, and obferving it, by its white head,I difmounted, and took it up, but had fomeditHzulty in mounting again, partly by theramping of my borfe, and partly by reafon ofa certain fort of trembling throughout mywhole joints; fome thing alfo of anger had itsfhare in the confuiion : For I thought helaughed when my fhfF flew out of my hand.Coming up with him again, (who halted allthe time i vv.*.s feeking my fbff) l aflced himcnce more who he was ? hie a af.vered, TheLaird of Cool. I enquired, nnd, If he was theLaird of Cool, what brought him hither, andwhat was his bufmefs with me r He anftwered.The reafjn that 1. want you is, that l knowyou are difpofed to do for m -, what none ofyour brethren in Nithfdale will fo much as at¬tempt, though it rerve never fo good purpofes.I told him, I would never refufe to do anygood thing, to ferve a good purpofe, if Ithought I was obhged, to it as my duty : Heanf vered, fince I had, undertaken what few inNithfdale won! \ for he had tried feveral per-Lns upon the fubjed, who were more obligedto him than I was to any perfon living. Up¬on this I drew my bridle-reins, and taiked infurprife, afked what I had undertaken l Heanfwered, That on Sabbath laft, I had heard,you condemned Mr. Paton and the other Mi-nifters of Dumf ies, for difluading Mr. Men¬aces from keeping his appointment with me;and if you had been in their place, you wouldhave^ 4 Conferences between Cool and Ogilvy.have perfuaded the lad to do as I defired, andthat you would have gone with him yourfelf iflie had been afraid, and that if vou had beenin Mr. Patou’s place, you would have deli¬vered my commiflions yourfelf, fmee they in¬tended to do fevefal perfons juftice. I afleedhim, Pray Cool, who informed you that Italked at this rate ? To which he anfwered,You mu ft know, that we are acquainted withmany things that the living know nothing a-bout. Thefe things you did fay, and muchmore to the purpefe; and all that 1 want is,that you would fulfil your promife, and deli¬ver my cornrniftions to my living wife. Up¬on this 1 laid, ’Tis a pity Cool, that you whoknow fa many things, fhouid not know thedifference between an abfolute and condition-id promife; 1 did indeed, at the time youmention, blame Mr. Patou, for I thoughthim juftly blameabie, in hindering the lad tomeet with you, and if 1 had been in his place,1 would have ailed quite the reverie -, butdid I ever fay, That if you would come toJnnerwick and employ me, that I would goall the way to Dumfries on fuch an errand ;rhat is v.hat never lb much as entered intomy thoughts. He anfwered, What were yourthou: hits 1 do net pretend to know, but 1 candepend upon my information, that thefe v.ereyour words-; But i fee you are in forne difor-der, Pll wait upom you when you have moreprefence or mind.■ByConferences between Cool and Ogihy. 5By this time we were at James Dickfon’sincloi'ure below the Church-yard, and while Iwas recoliefting iu my mind if ever L hadfpoke thefe words l;e ailedged, he broke fromire thro’ the Church-yard with greater violencethan ever any man on horfe-back was capableof, with fuch hnging and buzzing noife, asput me in greater diforder than I was all thetime l was with him. I came to my houfe,and my wife obferved more than ordinarypalenefs in my countenance, and would al¬ledge that fomething ailed me; i called for adrain, and told her 1 was a httle uneafy. Af¬ter I found myfelf a little refreflved, 1 wentto my clofet to meditate upon this, themaoftaftonijhing adventure of my whole iife.Upon the 5th of March 1724, being atHarehead baptizing the fhepht rd’s child, Icame off at fun-fetting, or a little after, andnear William White’s March, the Laird ofCool came up with me as formerly ■, and, af¬ter his firft laluration, bid me not be afraid.I told him I was not in the leaft afraid, in thename of God and Chrift my only Saviour,that if he would do me the leaft harm (for Iknow that He, in whom t trufted, was ftrong-er than all they put together, and if any ofthem fttould attempt to do even the horfethat 1 ria upon, as they have done to Dr.Menzie’s man, if it be true chat is laid, >andgenerally believed about Dumfries) l ha'efree accefs to complain to'my Lord and Mut¬ter,6 Conferences between. Coo! and Ogihy.ter, to the lafh of whofe refentinent, you areas liable now as before.Cool.) You need not multiply words onthat head, for you are as fafe with me, andf?rer, if fafer can be, than when I was a-iive.QgiLJ Well then Cool, let me have apeaceable and ealy converlation with you forthe time.we ride together, and give me fomeinrorma'ion about the affairs of the otherworld, for no man inclines to lefe his time inconverfing with the dead, without hearing orlearning fomething that is ufeful.Cool.) Well, Sir, I will fatisfy you as faras I think it proper and convenient: Let meknow what information you want from me.Ogil.] May I then afk you, if you be in aftate of happinefs or not ?Cool.) There are a great many things I cananfwer, that the living are quite ignorant of:There are a great many things, that notwith-an ding my additional knowledge I have ac¬quired ilnce my death, I cannot anfwerandthere are a great many queftions and thingsthat you mav ftart, of which the laft is one,that I will not anfwer.Ogil.) Then 1 know not how to manageour converfaticn, for whatever I fhall enquireof you, I fee you can eafily fhift me, fo thatI might profit more by converfing by my-felf.Cod.) You mav try.Cgil.)Conferences between Cool and Ogilvy. 7Ogil. Well, then, what fort of a body hIt that you appear in, and what fort of a horfeis it that you ride upon, that appears fo fullof mettle rCoo!.) You may depend upon it, it is notthe fame body that 1 was witnefe to yourmarriage in, nor in which I died, for that isin the grave rotcen but it is fuch a body asferves me in a m ament, for I can dee as fleetwith it, as my foul can be without it; io that'’I can go to Dumfries and return again, be¬fore you can ride twice the length of yourhorfe; nay, if I have a mind to go to Lon¬don, or Jerufalem, or to the moon, if youpleafe, I can perform all thefe journies equal¬ly foon, for it cofts me nothing but a thought,or wiih ; for this body is as fleet as yourthought, for in the moment of time that youcan turn your thought to Home, I can gothere in perlbn :: And as for my horfe, it ismuch like myftlf, for it is Andrew Johnftonmy tenant, who died forty-eight hours beforeme.Ogil.] So it feems when Andrew Johnflortinclines to ride, you muft ferve him in quali¬ty of a horfe as he does you now.Cool.) You are miftaken.Ogil] I thought that all difinflion betweenmiitrefles and maids, lairds and tenants hadbeen done away at death.Cool.) True, it is, but you do not take upthe matter.\ * . ,'Y. ?8 Conferences between Cool and Ogihy.GgiL] 1 his then is one of the queftions youwiii not anfwer.Coed ^ You are ftil] miftaken, for that quef-tion I can anfwer, and after this you may un-rierftand it.Ggild] Well then Cool, have you never yetappeared before God, nor received any len¬ience from him as a Judge ?Cool.) Never yet.OgiL] 1 know you were a fcholar. Cool,and it is generally believed that there is aprivate judgement, 1 elides the general pne atthe.great day, the former immediately afterdeath. -Upon this he interrupted my ar-guing.Cool.y No fucb thing I No fuch thing !No trial till the great day. The heaven whichgood men enjoy after death, confifts only inthe 'feremty of their minds, and fatlsfadHcnof a good conference, and the. certain hopesthey have for.an eternal joy, when that dayffeall cotne. 1 he punilhment or hell of thewicked immediately after death, coniids inthe dreadful (tings of an aualiened confcience,tend the terror of feeing the great Judge, andthe fenfible apprekenhons of eternal tormentserrfuing ; and this bears frill •. due proportionto-the eviis they did when living: ho in¬deed, the itate of feme good folks differs butlittle in happ'meh . from what they enjoy inthe world ; fave only, that tbqy are free fromthe body, and the fins and fenrevvs that at-Conference between Cool and Ogilvy. 9iend it-: On the other hand, there are fo:^who may be faid, rather not to have beengood, than that they were wicked, while liv¬ing-, their-date is noteafily didinguitned fromthat of the former, and under that great clafscomes a great herd of fouls, a vatt number ofignorant people, who have not much mindedthe affairs of eternity, but at the fame time,have lived in much indolence, ignorance, andinnocence.Ogil.] 1 always thought that their rejedisin \ the terms of falvation oifered, was a luf-fkient ground for God to punifh them withhis eternal difpleafure; and as to their igno¬rance, that could never excufe them, iincethey lived in a place of the world where tbs.knowledge of thefe things might eafiiy havebeen attained.Cool.) They -never properly rejected theterms of falvation, thev never, ftrictiy fpeak-ing, rejected Chrift: Poor fouls! they had as•great a liking both to him and heaven, astheir grofs imaginations were capable -of. Im-•partiai reafon muff have many allowances;as tiie ftupidity of their parents, want of e-ducacion, diftance from people of good fenfeand knowledge, and uninterrupted applica¬tion, they were obliged to give their fecu-te.r affairs for .their daily .bread, the impi¬ous treachery of their paftors, who perfuadedthem, it they were! of fuch a party all waswell; and many other ceniideratiocs, whiciiv ■ God,io Conferences between Cool and Ogilvy.God, who is pure and perfeiSb Reafon itfeif,will not overlook: Thefe are not To muchunder the load of divine difpleafure, as theyare out of his grace and favour; and youknew it is one thing to be difeovered, andquite another thing to be perfecuted with allthe power and rage of an incenfed earthlyking. I allure vou, mens’ faces are not morevarious and different in the world, than theircircumftances after death.0^/7.] 1 am loath to believe all that youhave faid at this time. Cool, (but i will notdifpute thofe matters with you) becaufe fomethings you have advanced, feem to contradictthe feriptures, which I lhall always lock up¬on, to be the infallible truth of God; for Ifind in the parable of Dives and Lazarus,that the one was, immediatly after death,carried up by the angels into Abraham’s bo-fom, and the other immediately thruft downto hell.Cool.) Excufe me, Sir, that does not con¬tradict one word that I have laid, but yotifeem not to underhand the parable, whofe on¬ly end is to illull:rate the truth, that a manmay be very happy and flourilh’ng in thisworld, and molt wretched and miferable inthe next *, and that a man may be miferablein this world, and more glorious and happyin the next.Ogil.) Be it fo. Cool, I lhall yield thatpoint to you, and lhail pals to another whichhasConferences betiveen Cool an l O^Jhy. i rhas afforded me much fpeeula ion fries ourtail: rencounter, and that is, hov you came toknow that I talked after the manner l d'dTconcerning Mr. Patou on the firfl Sabbath otFebruary laft. Were you prefent with us,but invilible ? He anfwered very haughtily •,No, Sir, l was not prefent myfelf. I replied,I would not have you angry, Cool; I pro-ipofed this queftion for my own farisfaftion,but if you don’t think proper to anfwer it, letit pafs. After he had paufed with his eyeson the ground for three or four minutes ol"time at mod-, with fome hafts and ieemingcheerfulnefs, he fays;Cool.) Well, Sir, I will fatisfy you in thatpoint: You muft know, that there are fentfrom heaven angels to guard and comfort,and fo to do other fpecial good fervices togood people; and even the fpirits of goodmen departed, are employed on that fame er¬rand.Ogil.'] And do you not think that everyiman has a good angel!Cool.) No, but. a great many particular menhave, and there are but few houfes of diftinc-tion efpecially, but what have at leaft one at¬tending them, and from what you have al¬ready heard of thefe fpirits, it is no difficultmatter to underftand how they may be fer-viceable to each particular member, thoughat different places, at a great diftance. Manyare the good offices which the good angels domenV2 Gorifertvtts l?tween Goal-and .Oglhy. »men that fear God, though many times they4'are not fenfibie of it; and I know afturedly,t;hat one powerful angel, or even adive, cle¬ver foul departed, may be fufficient for femevillages; but for your great cities, fuch asLondon, Edinburgh, or the like, there is onegreat Angel that has the fuperintendance ofthe whole: And there are inferior angels orfouls departed, to whofe peculiar care fuch aman of fuch particular weight or bu/inefs iscommitted. Now, Sir, the kingdom of Sa¬tan does ape the kingdom of Chrift as much,in matters of politics, as can be well knownthat the courfe of wisdom is from above; fothat from hence are fent out Miflionaries inthe ft me order; but becaufe the kingdom ofSatan is much better replenifned than the.o-.thtr, inuead of one devil there are in manyinitance?, two or three commilkoned to attenda particular family of influence and difinc-tion.OgiL] 1 .read, that there are ten thoufandtimes ten thoufands of angels that wait uponGod, and fng his praife, and do his will,and ! cannot underftand how the good angelsfnouki he inferior in number to the evil.Cod.) Did i nor fay, that whatever thenumber he, the fpirits departed are employedin the fame bufmefs, fo that as to the num¬ber of original deities, whereof Satan is chief,] cannot determine, but you need not doubt,but there are more fouls departed to thatplace.Conference; between Cool and Ogilvy.place, which in a loofe fenfe you call hell, byalmoft in infinity, than what are gone to thatplace, which in a like fenfe you call heaven,who likewife are employed in the fame pur-pole *, and I can afiaire you, by the bye, thatthere is as great a difference between angelsboth good and bad, as there is among men,with refpect to their fenfe, knowledge, cun¬ning, cievernefs, and addon •, ncv, which ismore, the departed fouls in both fides, out do,feverals, from their very firft departure, of theoriginal angels. This you will perhaps thinka paradox, but it is true.Ogii.~\ I do not doubt it, but what is thatto my queftion about what I am felicitous.Cool.) Take a little patience. Sir, fromavhat I have find, you might have underftoodme, if you had had your thought about you,but I fiiall explain myfelf to you. Both thegood and bad angels have Rated times of ren¬dezvous, and the principal angels who havethe charge/either of towns, cities, or king¬doms, not to mention particular perfons, vil¬lages, and families, and all tha£ is rranfacledin thefe feveral parts of the country, are theremade open; and at their rencounter on eachfide-, every thing is told as in your parifh, inmilns, kilns, and fmithies, only with this dif¬ference, that many things falfe ?re talked atthe living rencounters, but nothing but w'hatis exad; truth is faid, or told among the dead;only 1 rnuft obferve to you, Tnat as I amcredibly14- Confer eneis It tween Cool and Ogifoy*Credibly informed, feveral of the inferior badangels or fouls of wicked men, departed, havetold many things that they have done, andwhen a more intelligent fpirit is fent out up¬on enquiry, and the report of the formerTeeming doubtful, he brings in a contrary re¬port, and makes it appear truth, the formertares verv ill. Their regard for truth preventsit, for while they obferve the truth, they dotheir bufinefs, and keep their ftation, for Godis truth.So much truth being among thegood angels, I am apt to think that lies andfalfehood will be as much in vogue amongthe bad.Cool.) A grofs miftake, and it is not thealone mi (hake which living folks fall under,with refped to the other world, for the cafeplainly is this, an ill man will not ftick at anyfalfehood to promote his defign, fo, as littlewill an evil foul departed, ftand at any thingthat can make him fuccefsful, but in makingreport, he mud tell the truth, or woe be tohim ; but belides their monthly, quarterly,yearly, or weekly meetings, or what ever theybe, departed fouls acquainted, may take a tripto fee and converfe with one another yearly.Weekly, daily, or oftener if they pleafe. Thusthen I anfvver your queflion, that you werefo much concerned about, for my informa¬tion was from no lefs than three perfons, viz.Andrew Aikman, who attends Thurfton’s fa¬mily,Cmfertnccs between Cool aid- Ogllvy, 15wily, Janies Corbet, who waits upon Mr.Paton, who was at your houfe: and an origi¬nal emifiary, appointed to wait upon yours.Ogil.'] At this, I was much furprized, and,after a long thinking, l afked him, And isthere really, Cool, an emilTary from hell, inwhatever fenfe you take it, that attends myfamily lCool.) Yes, you may depend upon it.OgiL] And what do you think is his bufi-nefs ?Cool.) To divert you from your duty, andcaufe you, underhand, to do as many ill thingsas he can, for much depends on having theminifter on their fide. Upon this 1 wasftruck with a fort of terror, which 1 cannotaccount for, nor exprefs: In the mean time,he faid fevera! things that I did not under-ftand, but after a little, I coming to my for¬mer prefence of mind, faid,Ogil.'] But Cool, tdl me in earned:, if therebe indeed a devil that attends my family tho’invifible to us all !Cool.) Jud; as fure as you are breathing •,but be not fo much dejeAed upon this infor¬mation •, fot l tell you likewife, that there isa good angel that attends you, that is tlrongerthan the other.Ogil.] Are you fure of that, Cool ?Cool.) Yes, there is now one riding on yourright hand, who might as well have been elfe-where, for I meant you no harm.OgH]to Conferences between Cool and Ogilvy.Ogil. ] And how long has he been with, |me ?Cool.) Only fince we pafled Brand’s Lee, ,but now he is gone.OjfzX] We are juft now upon Elenfdeugh,■and I define to part with you, though per¬haps I have gained more by our converfation,than 1 would have done otherwise in a twelve-month. 1 chule rather to fee you anothertime, -when you are at leifure, and I wifh itwere at as great a diftance from Innerwick asyou can.Cool.) Be it lb, Sir, I hope you will be as■obliging to me next rencounter, as I havebeen to you this.Ogil ] I promife you I will, in as far as itis confidant with my duty to my Lord andMaster Chrjst Jesus; and fince you haveobliged me fo much by information, .1 willanfwer all the queftions you propofe, as far as,confifts with my knowledge, but I believeyou want no information from me.Cool.) I come not to be inftjmfted by you;but I want your help of another kind.Upon the ninth of April J7M> as ^ 'v;lsreturning from Oldhamftpck, Gool came upwith me on horfeback, at the foot of the ru¬inous inclofure, before we come to, Dod< ^told him his laft converfation had proved foacceptable to me, that I was well pleafed tofee him again, and that; there ^'as a vaft num¬ber of things that l wanted to inform mytdffurtherConferences between Cool and Ogihy. 17further of, if he would be k> good as to fa-tisfy me.Cool.) Laft time we met, I refufed you no¬thing you afked, and now I exr*c6t, that you’will refufe me nothing that I fnall a Ik.Ogil ] Nothing, Sir, that is in my power,or that I can with fafety to my reputationand character. What then are your de¬mands ?Cool.) All that I defire of you is. That asyou promifed that Sabbatii-day, )Ou wouldgo to my wife, who now pofiefles all my ef¬fects, and tell her the following particulars,and tell her in rm name, to rectify thefe mat¬ters. Fird, That i was owing juftly to Pro¬ved Crofby, five hundred pounds Scots, andthree years in to reft: Bur upon hearing of hisdeath, my good-brother the Laird of Chappdand i, forged a difeharge, narrated the bond,the firm and ether particulars, with th's hene-rcus claufe, that at the time it was fallen by,and could not be found ; with an obligationon the Provoft’s part,*o deliver up the bond,as foon as he could hit upon it •, and this dis¬charge was cared three months before theProvoft’s death •, and when his fon and fuc-ceficr Andrew' Crofby, wrote to me concern¬ing this bond, I came to him, and fhewedhim the difeharge, which filenced him-, fo thatI got out my bond without more ado. Andwhen I heard .of Robert Kennedy’s deatn,with the fame help or Chappel, 1 got a bTupon18 Conferences between Cool and Ogihy.upon him tor an hundred pound fterling, ofwhich I got full and complete payment, and’Chappel got the halt. When 1 was at Dum¬fries, the da\ that Thomas Grier died, towhom I was owing an account of thirty-fixpounds fterling, Chappel mv good-brother wasthen at London,., and not being able of myfelf,(being but a bad writer) to get a difeharge ofthe account, which I wanted exceedingly j Iiret accidently with Robert Boyd, a poor wri¬ter lad in Dumfries, 1 took him to Mrs. Cor-nock’s, and gave him a bottle of wine, andtold him, that I had paid 'I homas Grier’s ac¬count hut wanted a difeharge, and if he wouldhelp me to it, I would reward him : He fledaway from me in a very great paftion, faying,41 He would rather be hanged, but if l hada mind for thefe things, 1 had better wait“ till Chappel came heme.” T his gave megreat trouble, fearing, that what Chappel and1 had done formerly was no fecret, 1 follow¬ed Boyd to the ftreet, made an apology thatI was jefting, commending him for his ho-nefty, and took him folemnly engaged, neverto repeat what had pafted. 1 fent tor my cou-fin Barnhcwrie, your good-brother, who, withno difficulty, for a guinea and a half, under¬took, and performed all that 1 wanted, andfor a guinea more, made me up a difehargefor two hundred pounds Scots, that 1 wasowing to your Father-in-law, and his friendMuirhead \ which difeharge I gave toConferences between Cool and Ogilvy. 19(John Ewart, when he defired the money jland he, at my defire, produced it to you,jwhich you luftained. A great many the likednfhnces were told, of which I cannot re¬member the perfons’ names and things : But,fays he. What vexes me more than all thefe,is the injuftice 1 did to Homer, Maxv ell, ten¬ant to mv Lord Nithkiale, for whom I wasfador: l borrowed two thou fane- merks fromhim, five hundred of which he had borrowedfrom another hand; I gave him my bond,and for reifons l contrived, obliged him tofecrecy *, he died within the year, and leftnine children, and his wife had died beforehimfeif. 1 came to feal up his papers ior myLord’s fecurity : His eldeft daughter entreat¬ed me to look through them all, and to giveher an account what was their ftock, and whatwas their dobt; 1 very willingly undertookit, and in going through the papers, I putmy own bond in my pocket: His circura*fiances proved bad, and his nine children arenow {Living. Thefe things I defire you tpreprefent to my wife, and take her brotherwith you, and let them be immediately reefiirfeed, for fhe has fufficient funds to do it up¬on ; and if it were done, I think 1 would beeafy and happy ; therefore I hope you wiljmake no delay. After a fhort paufe, l an-fwered, *Tis a good errand, Cool, you arefending me, to do juftice to the opprefledand injured,, but notwkhftandiag that 1 feemyfelr20 Conferences l(tween Cool and Ogifay.jnyfelf come in for two hundred pound Scots:yet j beg a little time to confider on the mat¬ter ; and fince 1 find you are as much mailerof reafon now as ever, and more than ever,I will firft reafon on the matter in its general:view, and then with refpedt to the expedi¬ency of mv being the mefienger, and this Iwill do with all maimer of franknefs. Fromwhat you have faid, I fee clearly, that yourprefent ftate is fo, that I need not a fir morequeilions upon that head, and you need notbid me take courage, and not be afraid ofyou, for at this moment, 1 am no more a-traid of you, than of a new born child.Cod.) Well, fay on.Ogil.] Tell me then, finee fuch is your a-biiity, that you can fiv a thoufand miles intiie twinkling of an eye, if your defire to dothefe oppreffed juftice, be as great as vcu pre¬tend, what is the reafon you do not fly to theCoffers of fume rich Jew or Banker, wherethere are ten thoufands of gold and filver :Invifibly fife, and irivifibiy return it into thecoffers of the injured : And fince your wifehas fiifficient fund and more, why cannot youempty her purfes, in your jnvifibility, to makethole people amends ?Cool.) Becaufe 1 cannot.Ogtl.] if thefe things be rectified you wouldbe eafy and happy : I do not' at all creditthat, forwhatever iuftice mav be done to thepeople,Conferences between Cool and Ogihy. 21jpeople, yet the :2u;lt of the bafe adlion alwaysIremains upon you.Cool.) Now you thin'* you have filencedjme, and gained a notable vi&ory, but I willIfhow you the miftake immediately ; for I;cannot touch any gold or money, by reafouI of thefe fpirits that are the dated guardiansjof judice and honefty.Ogil.\ What is that you tel! me. Cool ?Do not unworthy fellows break houfes everynight r and yet you that can put yourfelf in¬to fo many hundred different fhapes in a mo¬ment cannot do itWhat is that you tell me.Cool ?Cool.) ’ Fis true^ Sir, but againft the living,men may find out forne probable means of fe-curing themfelves, but it fpirits departed wereallowed that, no man would be fecure; for inthat cafe, every man that l had a prejudice at,would foon be beggared.Ogil ) Might not you go to the mines ofMexico and Peru, where thefe little fums willnot be miffed ?Cool.) No, Sir, for the fame reafon.Ogil.) But, Cool, there is fo much trea-fure loft in the fea, you might eafily dive in¬to the bottom of it, fearch that, and refundtnofe people their Ioffes, where no man is in¬jured. «Cool) You are a little too forward thisnight, Sir, and incline much to banter, what1 have faid, might fatisfy you j but fince itdoes2 2 Conferences between Cool and Ogilvy..does not, I will tell you further, that no fpi-;rit, good or bad, have power to take anymoney or gold : The good never do, thoughthe bad, if one in an age, ’tis no fmall quar¬rel, for if we were allowed them, then theywould be very fuccefsful in their bufmefs, andnever fail of gaining their points.Oy:7.] What hinders them. Coo! ?Cool) Superior powers that guard and go¬vern all.Ogi! ] You have fatisfied me entirely uponthat head, but pray, Cool, what is the rea-fon that you cannot go to your wife yourfelf,and tell her what you have a mind; 1 fhouldthink this a much furer way to gain yourpoint.Cool.) Becaufe I will not.Ogil.] t hat does not fatisfy me, Cool.Cool.) That is one of the queftions that Itold vou long a?o, I would not anfwer, but ifyou go as 1 defired, I promife to give you fullfatisfaiStion, after you have done your bufi-nefs : Fruit me for once, and believe me, Iwill not difaopoint you.Upon the 10th of April, 1724, comingfrom Old-Hermes upon the poft-road, I metwith Cool, upon the head of the path calledthe Peafe. He afk d me if I had connderedthe matter he had recomm rnded ? I told himI had, and was in the fame opinion I was inwhen we parted •, that I could not pofftbly un¬dertake his commifTion, unlefs he could givemeConferences between Cool and Ogilvy. 2 3me it in writino; under his hand. 1 told himthat the lift of the grievances were fo great,that I could not poffihly remember them with¬out being in writing, and that I wanted no¬thing but reafbn to determine me in that andall affairs of my life: I know, fays he, thatthis is a mere evafion; but tell me if theLaird of Thurfton will do it? I am fure, faidI, he will not •, and if he ftiould, I would doall that I could to hinder him, for I thinkhe has as little concern in thefe matters asmyfelf. But tell me, C00U is it not as eafyto write your ftory as to tell it, or to ride onwhat do you call him, for 1 forgot your hor-fe’s name.Cool.) No, S.r, it is not; and perhaps tmay convince you of the reafonabienefs of itafterwards.Ogil ] I would be glad to hear a reafon thatis lolid. for not fpeakintj to your wife your-felf-, but however, any rational creature mavfee what a fool 1 '’ oul 1 make of myfelf, ifI ftiould go to Dumfries to tel! your wife,that you had appeared to me, and had toldme fo many forgeries and villainies that youhad committed; and that fhe behoved tomake reparation: 1 he event might perhapsbe, that Ihe would fcold me; for fhe wouldbe loath to part with any money fne poffeffes:and therefore tell me l was mad, or poffiblypurfue me for calumny. How would I vin¬dicate my ft if ? How could I prove that youhad24 Conferences between Cool and Ogilvy.had ever fpoken with me? Mr. Faton and theother mtnifters of Dumfries would tell me, itwas the devil that had fpoken to me, and whyfhould I repeat thefe things for truth, whichhe, that was a liar from the beginning, hadtold me? Chappel and Barnhewrie would be'upon my top, and purfue me before the com-milfaries •, and every body would look uponme s.s brain-lick or mad •, therefore I entreatyou, do not infifl- upon fending me an Aprilerrand. The reafonablenefs of rny demandsI leave to your own consideration, as you didyour former to mine. But dropping thefematters, till our next interview, give meleave to enter upon fome more diverting fub-jedis* and I don’t know, Cool, but the infor¬mation you have given me, may do as muchfervice to mankind, as the redrefs of all thefegrievances would amount to.Mr. Ogilvv died verv foon after.4G L A S G O W,PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON,[No. 20.] Sakmarket, i8oS.