>3_ Ready Doctor:O R,CURESSuitable for moft Diftempers,INCIDENT TO THEHUMAN BODY.So that every Person may, with Eafe,Find a CURE, and Depend upon it:Being moft SAFE and SURE.Gl^n.? * ^ ^n,d •particular Account of the many- u ,eithat Men and VV on,en are iiable to undergowith different Cures for each Diftemper Explainedin an Eafy Manner, being fitted for People ofnil Ranks.TO WHICH IS ADDED,A TREA IISE on BLEEDING.By PE TER TAYLER, a. M./« Tenui labor ac Tenuis non Gloria.FALKIRK:Printed by Patrick Mair for the Aj^**r—~M.DCC.LXXXV.'•OF SCOTLA^V^T OThe Right HonourableTHOMAS TAYLER,EARL OF BECTIVE,LORD HE AD FORT,THESE RECEIPTSAre Humbly Dedicated,BY HIS LORDSHIP'SMoll Obedient Servant,PETER TAYLER.PREFACE.DIVINITY and Physic, being my chief Study for1fo;ne years bypaft, I have endeavoured, undei'jGod, to be ufeful in relieving the Sick, by the frequentufe of Herbs, in which I have had an abundant fuccefsThis, numbers can well atteft, by the benefit they re !jceived from my Herbacious Medicines. Alfio, by the |fkill of Blood, and Art of Bleeding, I have removed ; jdeal of Diforders, and Diitempers Now, for the gooe |of mankind in general, and fympathy 1 have toward |thofe who groan under pain, I here publilh the following!Receipts, (that every Reader may find the benefit, imy earned; with,) for by this Book people may Curethemfelves with very finall expence : As many Peopleare not able to pay Dear Doilors, this will be theii;;Cheap Phylician : Eefldes, in fome places, a DoHor welikilled, is not eafy to be found ; for he may be at a greadiftance, when this Humble Doctor will lodge in thimeaneft CottageThe Patients who perufe this Work, needs be at n<lofs to underhand the w'hole body thereof; for, witlgreat labour and pains, 1 have explained every difficul 1Word and Termination. Thofe Druggs, Herbs, Flowerand Difeafes that bears certain names unknown to man’people, they will no doubt be a little lurpriled to fe<here how fimple they are, in their own language, an]how eafily they may be attained, as oftentimes prefentin]themfelves at their doors, and yet lightly eiteemed. 'I conclude, wilhing that the Lord may fend his blefFing with every honeft endeavour, that Men and Womeion this earth may fee the love I bear to my fellovcreatures ; and numbers yet unborn atteft the good othefe fimple Cures: For this is the intent and wellmeant purpofe ofPETER TAYLERFrom my Study at EDINBURGH,Auguft 23d. t0 March 23d. 1785.A 3lEpiftle to the ReaderCOURTEOUS Patient, when this you react,J Fly to my Sayings with all your Ipeed ;iieve me, they will prove a Cure,ith fmall expence, and very fure.trough all this Book, a word call’d Juice,aften mark’d, but very nice :; meaning I will tell to you,from our Fathers at firlt grew,e juice of any herb that’s nam’d,tell, and will not be alham’d.It’s humbly meant that you will boil-ofe Herbs in Water, without toil,til their ftrength you fully have,d ufe them as this W ork doth irave.erefore it needs not puzzle you,- it is plain and fin pie too,ieing my intention,ery trouble to mention,d Cures adapted thereunto,I lhall in a little {how.Mow, the middle of the matter,,tell the truth, arid not flatter,ne may be apt to fay with fpite,at thefe Receipts I did not dite :liers may fay, I borrow ’d all,at I might not ftumbte nor fall;t with freedom, and without fears,is was my ftudy for fo e years,hough the fame may mockers grieve,te truth I tell, you may believe.The Epiftle to the Reader.Now, to put an end to jarring,bid to every lawlefs waring,To hate all vice Jet’s be inclin’d,5ut not the Souls which are entwin’dt hat makes men’s bodies for to moveThefe are the objects we Jhould love.>I w iih a bleiTing God may giveVith thefe Receipts to all that live :■tnd may they long enjoy the fame,o here 1 do fubfcribe my name.Sic Subfcribitur, PETRUS TAYLER,/larch 23d. 1785.*Difficult Words Explained.D I S EA STHMA,Aches,Apoftumes,jVpoplex,BELCH INGS,:holer,Condyloma,Carbuncles,atharrs, or Catharts,EPILEPSY,•Empyema,FISTULAS,iFellons,^Frenzie,HUMOURS,IHepiala,iHemorrhoitls,1INFLUENZA,[jlmpoftumes,LEPROSY,k Lethargy,MEGRIM,Morpheu,P L O R A,' Polipus,jQUINSEY or Squimnnce,A S E S.A Shortnefs of Breath.Severe Pains.Hot hard Swellings.A kind of Palfy.Stomach Difordered.Cold Humors.Wrong Fundament.Peltilential Swellings.Humors falling from theHead to the Breait.A kind of Falling-ficknels.Another ditto.Scabious Ulcers & Scruffs,Smiting hard Swellings.Giddinefs.Slimey corruptions.Fever hot and cold.Hemrod Flux.Peft Fevers.Hard Bealings.Scruphlous Humors.Sleepinefs.Head Difordered.A kind of Scurvy.A Wild Scab.A Bubly Nofe.The Throat Swelled, andvery Sore.Difficult Words Explained.D I S ESCIATIC,Sneezing,TETTERS, and Ring-W orms, »\ Tympany,i Tumors,' VERTIGO,A S E S.Bones Pained.A Neellng Fit.The Skin very Foul, and'Spotted.A kind of Dropfy.Wild Fire.Blood Difordered..! W E N N S, Arfe Cockles,. Wheafing, Lungs Difcrdered,xmxoooo<xxxxxxxxx?<)<xxxHerbs, Flowers, and Druggs.AGNUS CASTUS,Alii,Anthos,Auramionum,, Alumen,i A obergreafe,A(Ta Fcrdita,Artemariae,; Adianthi,Arpleni,Ammeos,Abrotoui,1 B E L I D I S,Bardanae,1 Burfae Partoris,I CARR IOPHI LOR,, Cardaminis,Cochleor,Cicutre,(CaUendulae,Wild Pepper.Garlic.Rofemary.Oranges.Allum.A Bitumen of the Se*»Devils Tongue.Mugu'orths.Maidens ! !air.Splenwort.Bilhopfweed.Suthernwood.Daileys.Burdock.Shepherds PutTe,C’oves.Cuckow Flower,Scurvy Grafs.Hemlock.Marygold.Cantharides,Creta,Croci,Camphor ice,DOG-GRASS,ELGILI,Euphrafice,Erigeri,FENUGREEK,Fleaoane,GUM ARABICK,Geritoe,Glycyerhizce,Spanilh Flies.Chalk.Saffron.Camphire.Ouick Grafs.Dwarf Elder.Eyebright.Groundfel.Greek ^lay.Flee Wort.Binding Beantree.Broom.Liquorace.Neefewort.Liverwort.Turnfole.Rupterwort. -Rott Coll.HELEB ORE (vel) EleboreHepaticae,Heliotrophium,Henriaricac,Helena Herba,IMPERATORIA,KALI,LI LI ORIS,Limaces,Lavendulce,Lillii Convalii,MATRICARI/E,Ivlolochia,Mandrake,Margaret,Meliue,Matilis,3Millefolium,Maflerwort.Glafswort.Whjte Lillies.Snails.Lavender.Lillies of the ValFeverfew,jews Mallows.Witchgrafs.Pearls.Balm.Navelwort.Y arrow. ■ -NAUSTURTII,Nicotianae,Nunmullar,P O LI P O D I S,Porii,Parietarise,Plantaginis,Pimento,Papilaris,Petrolium, ( vel ) OleumPetre,Pulagii,Pulmonariae,Polygnatiae,Primuleveris,Water Crefles.TobaccoMoneywort,Polipody.LeeksPellitoryPlantain.Jamaica Pepper.NipplewortOil of Peter.Penny Royal.Lungwort.Solomon’s Seal.Primrofes.RAMNI RACC/E,Rut;e,Ru fcii,Rofa Maria,Buckthorn Berries.^RueBoutchers Broom.Rofemary Velanthos.S O U L L ISaxifragae,Sal Nitri,Semper Vivi,Sea Spike,Sinapios,Scalopendrii,i Starnutu nenttim,Sefillium Motus,TAN ACE r I,Tamarindi,Thorny Apple,Tutias,Tuflilago,Treefo.l,UNICE TOXICUM,Ulmarie,Sea Onions.Saxifrage.Salt PeterHoufe Leeks,Sea Fike.Muftard.Splenwort.SnuffPaddock Pipes.Tanfey.Tamarinds-Night Shade.Tatty, or Txthy.Coltfoot Grafs.BuckbeanSwallow VvTort.Meadow Sweet,T A Y L E R’sREADY DOCTOR.Foi- an A S T H M A.^ I ''HOSE who do not know this Diforder by the^ name here given, let them look backward toan Explanation of Difficult Names, and there theywill find that it fignifies a fitortnefs of l?reath ; andthis muft be done, in like manner, witli every Dif-order, Herb, Drug or Flower, that bears uncommonNames. I have with great care arrainged them inan Alphabetical order, fo whatever any word beginswith, for inftance for an Afthma, -leek the letter A,and lb of any other.For an Allhma, firft Blifler behind the Neck, be-twixt the ihoulders: Then boil i lib. weight ofTTuffilago in Port Wine and Water, about a Chopin,hr Enghfh Quart of each ; take 3 Glafs fulls of this'er day5 one in the morning, one about mid-day,:uxl another at evening, till done.B Probatum EJ},For a Quartan A G U E.F"FAKE a Glafs full of Black Eelebore Juice, boiledin Rain Water, once a-day, for 7 days : Thiscures an Old Ague. And a New Ague is cured; bytaking about a Mutchkin, or Englilh Pint of ParietoryJuice, in like manner, once a-day for 7 days.N. B. If you do not underhand the word Juice,look at my Epii'le to the Reader, for I intend toavoid needlefs repetitions. Probation Eft.Aged Per ions Comforted.rrAKE 1 lib. of Winter Sage, 1-4 lib. of Tanzy,boil them in pure Well Water ; then take 2.Glafs fulls thereof once a-day for 7 days.N. B. You muft take 2 Scots Pints of \Y ater, Jand let the Herbs boil into one Pint : or, you mayufe the Juice of Semper Vivi, or a Glafs of PortWine, revives the fpirits miraculoufly.The frji Prdatum Eft-. (For St. Anthony’s F I Fv E.TAKE 1-2 lib. of Doves Dung, and as much of,Lint feed Oil, 6 Glafs fulls of Semper Vivi Juice, •pretty Prong, compound all together : apply a little;thcrept morning and evening, until you find uiebenefit. N. B. If Florence Oil can be got conve- ■niently, the 1-3 will ferve, with 2 Clal's fulls ofjp.pmper Vivi, or Mandrake Juice, anointed.The fteft Cure Probatum Eft. ,RE\DY DOCTOR.For ACHES.15TAKE 20 Drops of the Oil of R.ofes in a fpoonfuiof Cold Water, or drink the Juice of Green-Elder Leaves, for inward application. If outward,be needful, apply Olleum Petre, or make a Plaifterof Quacking Aih Leaves, Sallad Oil and Wax, about1 Ounce of each, fo apply where needful. Or, drinkthe Juice of Paddock Pipes ; mean time Plaifter withGreen Elder Leaves and Fre!h Butter, being firftpounded together.. Tfe Lajt Frohatum Efl.N. B If you do not know Paddock Pipes, theygrow in bogs and mires, and marihy ground, darkwhite to colour, about the thicknefs of a rail), emptywithin, and about i Inch divilion betwixt the fmallTunicles, which are more or lefs according to thelength of the Pipe : They commonly grow to i foot1-2 long; if longer, they are too old, and unfitfor fervice.P. S. You need not think it ftrange that I approveof the laft or firft Cure for any malady, for I mentionnone but what may be depended upon : only, whenI approve of one more then another, it is betaufe it !has been cftener tried : 'owever, when one fails,another may be taken with fidety ; for, as Conftitu-tions and difpofitions varies, fo, what will cure one,may not cure adother: Now, as more than one ismentioned, there can bene excufe for ignorance inthis matter, if neglected.For CUTS- by AXES.yyTUTKEPc the Gut. be old or new, it is veryj’ ’ dangerous : if the Ax was nifty, cleanfe the ifore often with Britkh Oil, efpecially before yowllay on your Salve, each time. Now, to make |the Salve, take i Ounce of Tallow, 10 DropsB z ofi6T A Y L E R’sof Sallad Oil, 10 Drops of Britifii Oil, and 10 Dropsof Turpentine, with 4 Drops w eight of Rofin, boiltogether into a Gaily Pot upon a How fire ; thenu!e a little as need require. If the Ax was clean,make an Oxicratum of Ralpberry or StrawberryWater and Turpentine, and apply a Salve of Eggs,Hue Juice and Honey. Probatum Fjt^For a Weak Apetite.rPAKE 3 Pills of Aloes at each diet, for 3 days ;-1 or a Glafs of Molochia Juice thrice a-clay,for 3 days. Probatum Eft.For a Greedy Apetite.T)OTTAGE of Wheat, and a little Whale Oilboiled therewith : Repeat this once a-day forthree days; or, apply Gum Arabic to the Belly.If none of thefe will Cure, the Patient’s cale multbe defperate indeed. Probatum Eft.For the APOPLEX.1 T JSE often the Juice of Sage, and Elder Leaves ;or the boiled Juice of St. John’s Wort.Probation Eft.For APOSTUMES.1 nPHE Leaves of the Great Burr, Dock Root, or,-*■ the Leaves of Green Elder, which of the twainI you choofe, boiled, and hot applied; mean time,1 drink Flea wort Juice, a good draught once a day,inwardly for 7 Days. Probatum ft.READY DOCTOR. \yFor Barrennefs.A PPLY Llmaces to the moudi of the Womb,together with the frequent ufe of Ambergreafe,Joout as much as will ly on a Silver Sixpence, perday, taken in a Glafs full of Balm Juice. Thishinders Barrennefs from a cold caufe And if Bar-rennefs proceed from a hot caufe, ufe MugworthJuice, or eat the Seeds and Apples of MandrakeAPPles- Pnbatum Efi.• For a Moift BRAIN.T^AKE a handful of Juniper Berries once a-dayfor three days, then drink the Juice of the Tneemaue pretty ftrong, for other three days ; or anointthe head with the Tinhure of Kali. Probation Ejt.For a Weak BRAIN.anoint1 ^ Convalii :the Head with the Juice of Lillit_ or, take tne Powder of Amber andC loves, and Iprmkle a little thereof upon the Head* once a-day for 7 days. • E rob at urn Ejt.For Bruiled NERVES.J^AKE a Cataplafm of Black Snails, and there-with apply = or, the Oil of Venice Turpentineanointed then take 8 Drops of Sallad Oil, nda much arts-horn, into a little Cold Water-otherwife drink the Juice of Night-Shade.® 3 Prob alum EJ},i8T A Y L E R ’ sFor Gloated BLOOD.r-po difpel Gloated Blood, take i ‘b. o. r gg , ^ ^I i lib of Viniger pound theol ^f^d ’ forabout i Ounce thereof_ at once ^hr.ce a-day3 daysOunce thereoi ai . a-dayor, drtak *e Juke of UniceFor Procuring BLOOD-nr" AKF 2 Libs- of Lavendulae, boil the Tame inT Spring ^Weter, 3 f ^‘"“gf, elgthen take about a Gill or ^ reftraint ofrr^L&WdWine, behines incrcafe*diet. Ur> a,1, ^ probaturn EJt.Blood powerfully-aFor Cleanfiug the BLOOD-Ounces once a-day, . 3 J ttv flrono-, once a-Juice of Helioirophiunt, n- ^ea.ppoon-lulls of theP’. of-raS once a-day for 3 days : or yearlyBleeding will do as well as any mentl°?n^m EjhFor a Rubly NOSE-• T UKEWARM Water often■ LFrO .for a Pohpus.READY DOCTOR.9-For Spitting BLOOD-For Defludions in the Brtaft-qpAKE a handful of Leeks, as much Sow Thiftle,J- and as much Hyfop ; boil them a little: ta.ce aGlafs full of faid Cordial thrice a-day, for 7 days : orchew Helena Herba pretty conflant for laid time,.Otherwife, ufe a Pipe of Tobacco now and then.P rob alum EJt.For Wounds in the Bread Inwardly. |IF Ulcers are dreaded in the Breaft, eat a goodA quantity of Strawberries ; or take about a Ouncesof Rol'a Maria Vel Anthos, with a handful or SeliUiumMotus, boil them in Sweet Milk, about an EngliinOuait • then divide it into five parts, to be taken mfive days : Otherwife, eat a few Tamarinds oncea-day for 3 days ; then ufe Tanacaeti Juice, about afpoonful at once every hour of the day, which - ■12 hours, for two days.N. B. If you would think this too troublefome forevery hour, you may take 4 fpoonfulls at once, 4 inthe morning, 4 at mid-day, and 4 at night, or aboutbed-time, without reftraint of diet, or any alterations.20T A Y £ E R’sFor BEARD f NESS.'■'pO Shave often, and waih the Beard with the* boded Juice of Sybbous, or Scallions, will caufeit grow very quickly : or, waih with Water, whereinrufty iron has been laid, upon the places you wantHair to grow. But, remember, thefe Cures willnot anfwer the Pair of the HeAd, Cures being given,as you nay fee in this Book, quite different.Now, to hinder a Beard to grow, or if it be tooftrong, to make it weaker : Take a handful ofEuphrafiae, and as much of Water-CreHes, boil themtogether, and anoint therewith as occafion requires.—Othervif1, Sinye the Beard with the lip-ht of aWhale Oil Lamp, or Braland Berries, by fome calledCrow Berries. Or, if you want to be free of a Beardaltogether, the Blood of a Batt once applied, will dothe turn. Probatum Eft.To Sweeten the BRE ATH.T N Primo. Ufe my Cure for a Stinking Breath ;or Wormwood and Viniger boiled together, anda little taken at times. A]fo, to eat a few AnnifeSeeds now and then, are very powerful in fweatningthe Breath. Probation Eft.To Clean(e the BREAST.TAKE 2 Ounces Fenugreek Seed, and 3 Ouncesof Honey; ufe this Medicine in 7 days, dividingit into 7 parts: Drink for laid time about a Mutchkinor Englifh Pint of Melifle Juice once a-day, otherwifeufe Sugar Liquorace in abundance.Probaturn Eft.READY DOCTOR.21For BEECHINGS.rT",AKE 20 Drops that falls from a Gla(s of Annife. Oil in a Spoonftil of Cold Water, in the Morn¬ing failing, for 7 Mornings. Or, take a handful ofCrows Toes, commonly called Crowfoot, boil them■'J an Engliih Qtiart of Water, or Scots Choppin;then drop fevenDrops of the faid Oil into a Glafs oflaid juice, ufed for 7 Mornings. Prcbatum Eft.N. B. Perhaps fome do not know what CrowsToes or Crowfoot is by this name. Therefore, Ifball defcribe the lame, and make it as plain as poflible.Crows 1 oes, or Crowfoot, commonly grows uponLee Ground, and Brae-faces : It bears a yellowRower, on which the Bees greatly feed, having thickblades, and full of Honey. Remember it is not thePeafe coloured Knappards, nor yet the Peefe-bloomroloured Sitfafts ; its colour is, as I have laid, yellow,it grows about 7 Inches long, and is feathered \\ ith!;reen fibres from the ro;.t to the flower; and thetjlower is what you muft ufe. Prabatum Eft.For Broken BONES.TTAKE 1-2 Ounce Bees Wax, 1-2 Ounce LintfeedOil, 1-2 Ounce Tallow, 1-4 Ounce Roftn, and'2 Ounce Glew, compound altogether in a Gailyot UP0!1 tiie fire ; put it upon Leather, and foT'y. But be fure firft to clean and walh the place, the Juice of Lilverueed or Cow knottgrafs,merwife Olleum Brittanicum, that is, Britilli C il,Probation Eft.oT A Y L E RJsFor BONES out of Joint.FIRST fet the Botr* or Bones ftraight : then make' . . , r  nnn 11»iVO i tec me uunr: .JI —fc,— • , ra Catanlaim of Sheeps Dung, and bitfaits, and. o ,applv. 1'his done for five or fix days, once a-day,'will prove lufficient. Probatum EJt.For a Mad DOG’s Bite.T\KE of Aih coloured Liverwort a Ounces,Black Pepper i Ounce and i Ounce of aPouder made of your own Blood, taken from the ear-p any Vein; beat them altogether, then diwdeit into o parts, to ferve 9 Mornings, ^ taking n: man EmvlMi Pint of Cows Milk, new milked . other-wife, bod Vineger and Salt, and anoint thrice a-dayfor o days • or Bathing often in Sea- A atei. Anyf«f 'I** Cure, afe veal, a,Kl ought toFor Pained Bov.eis.ALM Mint, and Winter Sage, boiled togethereach day, for 3 Days.BTo Preferve Beauty.•OALM, or Camphire Liquor; otherwife the Oil oB Myr;h€, rubbed on the face by tunes.^ ^To Help Lean BodiesIFiy„„ng. Bleed yearly , tf *>****!?*%SrSoHAstotauyrfthe^Mby eating Figs, 01 driuhing their juke, will experiencl You8”^ ufe about . Hb. of of Fig, i18 days. Prpbatum EJL6 days, to be ufedFor Over-grown Bodies.MAKE a Compound of Jagged Dwarf Elder Juice,a Choppin of this to as much Viniger ; take a•Glafs full per day, for 40 days. Probatum Eft.To Preferve Dead Bodies.■f ET the Body, or Bodies, be laid over with the' Juice or Gum of Caedria, that is, Cedar : "i his-will preferve Dead Bodies fulficiently. But obferve,it will eat away living HeOi, lb that none muft applyit on purpofe to eat awav proud flefh, until they caufea Doctor infpe t the Sore, and prepare the Cure, iacafe they might do more ill than good. Beiides,Affa Fcedita and Sal Nitre, will keep Flelh fromcorruption. Probatum Eft.For BOILS'''TAKE of Starnutumentum 1 Ounce, Wheaten-* IV ;eal 1 Ounce, and Figgs 2 Ounces, poundedtogether; apply a little at once per day, till cured.Probatum Eft.For a Loofe Belly*rT''AKE 2 Ounces of St John’s Wort, boil it int*-* a Choppin or Enghih Pint of Ale, pretty old :Then dri ik this all at once : Otherwife eat a goodquantity of New Cheefe ; or take about a Choppm ofSweet Milk each incrning, till cured.Probatum Eft.For Worms in the Belly.,\y ORM Pouders are very good; but Steel Shavings’ ’ i Ounce, Treakle 2 Ounces, Juice of Rue2 Ounces, Juice of Tanzy 2 Ounces, Juice of Mint2 Ounces, with 1 Ounce Harts-hom Drops : ThisCompound, by taking a little thereof falling, is mollpowerful ; and young or old may take it withoutdread or fear, or ufe my cure for Worms in general.Probatum EJLFor a Sore Bladder*T~\ISSOLVE 1-2 lib. of Sugar Liquorice among^ Water, about 1 Pint : Drink this in one day,making three divilions or intervals. Probatum EJ}.For Pilhiur Blood.-nr'AKE 1-2 Ounce of Nutmeg, 1 Ounce Dandellion-* R.oots, and 1 Ounce Sow i'hihle Roots: Makeall into one Ponder • then take as much of faidPouder as will !y on a Shilling, each Morning, in aPint of Cows Milk, that is, a Scots Mutchkin. Dothis for 7 days, then by faid time. Me Pouder will bedone, and you will be whole. Otherwife, take theStones of a Hare boiled or roafted in any meat.Probatum Efi.For Yen mous Biidugs.1-2 Lib. of Gar he bruifed and applied, or OlleumPetre, alias'!-etroLum ; meantime,-you mull take alittle Agrimony in a god draught of ' V of anykind. P rob arum EJh •READY DOCTOR.25For Bites of Serpents.'T'AKE any of my Cures for a mad Dog's bite •But be fure to eat at leaft 1 lib. of JunniperBerries, in three days, taking many or few at onceas you pleafe. Indeed Junnipers are fufficient ofthem (elves, by eating them inwardly, and applyingtheir fubftance outwardly. 3 “Probattm Eft.For Pain in tiie Back.£)RINK the Broth of an old Cock : Meantime puta btrengthnmg Plaiftef to the place grieved •otherwde bruife Kali, and apply it outwardly, drink¬ing the boiled Juice inwardly.Probatum eft.For Burning.THE Juice of Ferns and old Urine, or Leeksfodden and applied: But a little Cream, andthe yolk of an Egg, is bell for Infants.Probatum eft.To Loofen the Belly.DRI1SF 3 .Sood qo^tity of Ale Wort, very new -and anoint the Belly with the Juice of AppleHainzy, called Southemtvood : this is better thancommon khyfics.^ Probatum eft.To Stop a Wound Bleeding.1 INEN Caddife burnt and laid upon the Wound,alias-, tie up the Orrifice or Cut with a Parthingor any piece of Copper. nPrcbatum ejr.N. B. If the Wound be fo proud that it will notdefift by Caddife, you mud take this laft remedyfor refuge.'For Hindering Bealings-Appi v Tutix, or Roafted Cheefe : otherwise,the Lights of a young Lamb. Tutia does notl»t the Beafng grow too much, it being m a foftnmgnature r belfdel it will make a Bealing whole.,fjppofe it were broken. pr9batwn eft.For Bread Wounds outwardly.* ppLY Tutiac Ointment: or a youngAPMilk, of her firif Child, applied, will ,foon 1m.the Sore. Probation eft.For Bruifes.TAKE * ounces of Honey. -d » ™«:h ^^“o^I.ev.an.noVply s.Weby.i-s,D* is beft of any Makes* ** bn"f«-Probation eft•ready doctor* 2rTo Make a Pouder of your Blood.DRJn V1?0n a Girdle> 0‘ ^ a Frying Pan ; keep'it k a . !mnS ab°Ut with a Knife until you thinklet it Sa !0n°US{lTn the fire: then tike it off,' cold }.,/ “P- Ae Girdle °r in the Frying Pan tillth s’ ft ee^ mov,ng if abnnt : After doingn h T7?uT lt-fma11 anv wayy°up^-N. 5 rt will keep ,n a Bladder 7 year, • But letCaret‘he B!°0d °f ^Yon wi!l be noKood ' every °ns mul1 ufe fheir own .Probation ej}+T or a Stinking' Breath.DRINK often the Juice of Flouer-de-luce, oncea-day a Glafs full, for ten days at lealt • or hnVfct’dtr y<,wmoutb ab0“l 10vi*y.Probation eft.Tor Strained Bones.f^TnSbitfci,tpt°sr:To„Sailialone forT2 IW ’thk 1 and let i^pftener, if need require • Orh be.^Peatred thrItet orMBurfePaftorisS^lnS' ^ ^C2Probation ej}.ag T A Y L E R’sA Help to Keep Chafte.Se”’in0XtorLays,C*:;tinued for J7 Day! • Of’ and •„ ,vill prove the .l',’ Remedl for this = Meanwhile, Ramni Baccaeonly Kenie y addition.Juke, a Spooafal pet Uay, to prob3tim<Jl.For the Convullion Fits-TjIONY Root 2 Ounces,K Oil of Lintfeed, anointed outsvardly ^ ^ ^the little Finger, left band, K]ay ’them on theDrops come out ; tak , irni 0f poor RedPatient’s Navel then ta ^ndfnl of g. ^Earth in a Napkin of Lmra, y p batum ,fi.let it alone for 81 Minutes.For Coughs.1 raw pat a little Garlic once a day,•§F the Cough ke ne , ‘ Cherry Gum drunk mi for 5 Days- K of Quaking Alh,any Wine is good . or, tn J probatum eft.and Oil of Sweet Almonds.For the Cods and Stones Swelled.rpAKE a han^u, of Ds^f ^ Reaves, MX them in a Bottle , _jeved: Or, take 1-2after bruifed hot to the ft in Oil of Lintfeed,Ounce of Salt Peter, dilTolvc Pn,batum e/i.and therewith anoint.READY DOCTOR.29For the Choleric Paffion.nr AKE a Glafs of any Wholefome Wines, once a--L day, for 7 Days, with a little of Rofemary Pouderior Hepatic^ Juice. Or, when the trouble is high,get 1 Noggin, or Gill of Peppermint Waters, abrayed Nutmeg, and 1 Grain of Orrigrum, com-' monly called Olleum Thyme, or the Oil of Thyme,put all together, and fup it without delay.Probatum ejl.For a Cholic.pEPPER 1-4 Ounce, Milk 1 Choppin, drunk..A Or; take a living Kitten or Whelp, and lay it tothe Cholic, it will draw the Diforder to itfelf, andfoon die thereof: or, the burnt Hoves of a Cow,a little of the Pouder in any Liquid drunk: or aSheep’s Skin, newly flaughterecj, put round the Body;or ufe any of my Cures for a Clio:eric Paflion.Probclum tff.To Exptli a Dead Child./VS there are a number of Herbs, .Flowers, andDrugs, for expelling Dead Children, yea, evenlome of them would expel living ones, on Lidaccount, for fafety to the Patient, 1 ihall menUon adeal, that men of learning ..will know by the Charac-ters given; and if any perfon need fuch, let taemapply publicly to a Phyfician. 1 (hall then iirftcharadtnfe what 1 was (peaking of; then g ve youverv Editable Cures, at full length, for the expellingof Dead Children, that w ill not hurt living ones.C 3 . The3°T A Y L E R’sThe ones, men of Phytic will know, are the G^raLiquor, or luice of A : m : n : m : alfo of d • •alio, the Pouder of K : i: alfo of G : n : t n 1 heTvi'ce of Mr : o : of L : p : s : of m : k : of L . .of G • P • R : and P : n : 1. Any of thefe are good-and fufficient : But I do not chooie to ntention themat large; for many one in trying htuaoom would beapt to kill themfelves, as well as their Children If/did fo, at leaft it would be a great venture, andgreat wonder if they did not. But, as I t0give you a Receipt or two, that you would under-itard fo I here perform.1 Make a Peffaiy of White Helebore, and lay U onbelow the Navel ; alfo, a little n>gh Je “ ^fthe Womb : at the lame time take a httk of ^ elloGaiow-Flower Seed, put the ^eds into a Gi ft ofWhite Wine, and drum them : °G a 1 e 7of the fame, put them into the Matrix, and thwiU d0- ProlM eft.For a Condylomar-pAKE a handfull of Groundfel Leaves brmfed,T^fn apply to the place tormented : or as muchof rSifLeaves, and the Whne of an Egg,pounded together. pnbaium eft.For the Chincough.rp* AKE i 2 lib of the dried Roots of Jews Mallows,in the Morning with a draught oSweet Milk, for feveral Mdrnmgs : «r, uke oGarlic Roots i-6th of a Kb. or Daffadilhc Roots, «READY DOCTOR/31foT!P calls them, pon"u' them in Frelh Butter, about,-4th of a lib. then lay a Pla iler thereof to the Solesof the Patient’s Feet. N. B. If this be done toChildren, make the Compound weaker'.Frobatum ejt.For Carbuncles.DRINK the boiled Juice of St John’s Wort, abouta Gill or Noggin per day, for eight days: Mean¬while bruife a Field Dailey, and lay it to the placeafflicted, once in the day for the above time ; thenmake whole with Woodbine Leaves.Probatum pfl.For the Cramp.ASS A Foedita Juice applied outwardly, where moftpain is inwardly : or, Petrolium in like manner :otherwife, boil a handful of Nettles that grows abovethe dead, in a Choppin of Whey ; of this take a Glafsfull Morning and Evening till done.Probatum eft.For the Cruek and Glandules.A Plate of Lead applied, cures the Glandules ; letit alone for 12 Hours, that is, keep it on fromI 6 in the Evening to 6 in the Morning : this muft be1 done for 7 days. And for Cruels and Waxen Kernels,I take 1.4th lib. of Muftard Seed brayed with 1-2 lib.1 of Hogs Lard, or Swine’s Greafe, compound both! together, -and ufe it at your pleafure.Vrobatum eft.32i A Y L E K sFor G O 11 N S.r7~'AKE i-4th Ounce of Rue Blades, 1.4th Ounce1 of Nitre, and 1-2 Ounce Honey ; a little by timeslaid to the Corns, of this Compound, is fufficient: or. as much Yerdigreafe and Copperas in like mannerufed.V^robatum eft .For Catharts, or Catarrahs.rPARE 1-2 lib. pf Hynds-Tongue, x-^d lib. of-*■ Maidens Hair, boil them in a Pint of Water,Scots Meafure, or Engliih half Gallon ; let them boil;until Ibaked into an Engliih Quart, or Scots Choppin,drink a Tea Cup full of this Juice about mid-day eachday till done. Otherwife, Roaft 1-2 lib. of DragonRoots, compound them with as much Honey, dividethe Compound into 9 Parts, and take a Part aboutmid-day each day, lucceffively, till done.Vrobatum eft.For a CANCER,npHE Juice of Sloe Tree boiled with Water, or-*■ rather loe s, if they can be got, add thereuntoa good quantity of Allum; then make a Plaifter there¬of with Rye Meal, and lay a little by times to theplace grieved.Vrobatum eft.For CHOLER and PHLEGM.''THOSE w ho Smoak Tobacco, needs nothing elfe ;thofe w'ho do not, mull take a little Aloes andManna by times, any way they think proper.'Vrobatum eft.READY DOCTOR.33For a CONSUMPTION.DOIT or Date Stones, a handful brayed to Ponderand drunk in Wine, is very good : But, beft otall, Bleed in the Legs, make a Pouder of the Biood,and drink it. You may depend upon this being afure Remedy, if you take only a Mutchkm of LoatWhey at once, twice a-day, for Fourteen Days; addto each Draught as. much of the Blood Pouder aswill ly on a Silver Sixpence,Vrobatum ejtFor a CHOLERIC COLIC.TAKE of Cork Pouder 1-2 oz. Frefh Butter 1-2 oz.compound them together, and ufe as much in aday, caufing it ferve Morning, Mid-day, and Evening:This muft be done for Nine Days running. * or anaddition you may take a Glafs ol Port W ine once a-day during the time of your Cure.i a Yrobatum ejt.For COLDS.IF the Cold be new, take a Glafs full of HighlandWhuky and Oat Meal, once in the Morning, andonce in the Evening, for three days. And if the coldbe old, make Brochin, or Cruel, ol Oaten Meal,pretty thick, about a Choppin, add thereunto 1-2 hb.of Treakle, and drink it when going to bed : UrSpaniih Juice, called Black Sugar Liquorace eatenand chewed, is good : And 1 oz. of Sugar-Candybrayed with 1 oz. of Pennacaeti, and eaten, nothingbehind either of them. , , aVrobatum ejr..l*or WRONG COURSES,t , the Jurce of Nettles often : Meanto the •' ir L'fr t NettIes and r!o"'er Me;*o the ■ ii/, bdow the Navel.Probatum rj}.F 'he C. L\P, or Venereal Diiorder,JT Rad hieaie, Friars Drops, or the Vevet• ■ •'•.-.ps are very good ; and Co is the Joke 0rvo. tm- u..:i i J .Ro.theSnr' , iSenanand,, o > "**'• *c> me juice ofSl‘h *• y°u boil a large Quantity of.-ock Roots in White Wine, and’ oi each 2 libs, with 1 07, Si 1-2 ofiy'.i- wed boiled, let the poor Patientv _r ^ icw uic poor raueut, ‘k ^ ,K;r ' ;|fa P,nt at once ; then he mutt go tobtn and keep warm nil he f.veat hearty ; This donefour or hve times, will cure Man or Woman, let theDifeafe be of never fo long a {landing.Vrobatum eft.For CHOPS and CANKERS.TAS/^nfdfUv! P' ed PoPP^ and as nntch ofFn v n p- ALne b01 them ln Vinegar, about TwoSSitd PjntS' 31101111 tllrke per wherePrubaium eft.To Keep from Dreamifio*.oTE ,a handf'«I of Annife Seeds, bind them in a- u Tat J anc Iay t^ra geRt>y to the nofc allthereof ln d°lnS tIllS> j 0U NV;1' ^cn iirtd the gwdPi obatum eft.DEAD BODIES Preferved.T AY the Body over with the Juice of St. John!*Wort, and Csedria : other wife look at the letterB. page 23d. and take which you pleafe.Vrobatum eft.For DROUSINESS.;U S E my Cure for the Lethargy. .Frobatum efi.For a SLOW DIGESTION.Use jny Cure for a Weak Apetite.Vrobaium •For DRUNKENNESS.PULAOIT, et Matilis Cum Papilaris, a Handful ofeach, boiled altogether in a Pint of Water : i akea Glafs full-or two of this before Drinking. Or, asmuch of Wormwood, ufed in fame form, will hinderone from being too Drunk. And, if the Patient hasdrunk too much, let him drink about a Mutchkin orEnglilh Pint of faid Juice, it will inftantly caufe himthrow up, and he will foon be whole : otherwife,to make ufe of a good quantity of Butter, or fat meatbefore drinking, preferves one wonderfully.Vrobatum eQ.For D E A F N E S S.'T'HE Oil of iurpentine is good: But take iBundle of Green Aih Branches, put them upda Rowling Fire, and when they begin to froth, catcall the Juice you can, put it in a Phial Glafs, thedrop in each Ear 7 Drops of faid Subftance everMorning, laying a little Caddife or Cotton above itThis muft be done for 7 Days.Yrobatum efi. 'For the DROPS Y.T F the Dropfy comes of Cold Drink often, the Juioof Endive ard F oufe Ear or a Hares Liver drietput into Whey, and often ufed. If it comes of Heatthe Juice of Bounree, or the Berries, if they can b.got, adding to each Engliih Pint thereof, 1-2 Ounc;hrigrum, commonly called,; the Oil of 1 hyme.Yrubdtum eftN. B. Take a Glafs full ev'ery 6 Hours for OnerCallender Month, if it be of long Handing : and i:not, the 1-2 of laid time will do.For an E P I L E P S Y.17ITHER Young or Lid, by drinking Mares Milk'J for the fpace of 7 Days, 2 Gills in the Morning,and as much in the Evening, will foon find thebenefit : Ur, take 6 07s. of Harts-hcrn Pouder, putit into 2 Bottles of Wine, then take a C-lafs of thisThrice a-day for 7 Days : Or, make a Pouder ofthat which a Foal cnlteth, being new foaled, the likeWeight, put in as much Vy ine^of any kind what-fomever, and ufed fame wav.J vVrobdtum pft.READY DOCTOR. 37For the DISEASES of the EYES.it"T F the Eyes be fore, Conferve of Rofes, applied, isbeft of any Medicine. Take about 1-2 Ounce,put them in a Linen Cloath, a little oppofite to each1 Eye : Let this (land all Night ; take it away in theMorning : Then put thefe Rofes to the Eyes atNight again. This mult be done for Five or Sixr different times.If the Eyes be Dim, blow a little of a Partridge’sGall, or Plantain Leaf, by times, into the Eyes: TheJuice of the Leaf is lafer then the Pouder of it.If there be a Mark on the Eyes, common Whalecil> or Lintfeed Oil, put on the Eyes; or the Pouderof Tulfilago Blades blown in the Eyes, removes theMark ahnoft in one Day ; or the Water of Honeyput in the Eyes. But obferve, none of thele can bedone without pain ; that is to fay, the operation can¬not be performed without great pain to the afflictedPatient.If the Eyes be Red and Watery, make a Pouder ofBurnt Saughs, or Sallows, blow a little by times jnthe Eyes: otherwife, Wafh the Patient’s Eyes withtheir own Urine now and then, once a-day, for onewhole Month ; meanwhile drink a Glafs each day ofthe Juice of Burfas Paftoris.-,rfLnd’ !/ Ae Eyes be very hot, put a little of theWhite of an Egg m the Eyes, or the Juice of GroundIvy put in the Ears, and a little Cotton above: Then* “nnk J*n Enghfli Pint of Pulagii Juice once a-day forr our Days. ^DAndAnd, for a Stroke on the Eye, or Eyes, bruifeWhite Snails with Women’s Milk, and put them mthe fold of a Linen Cloath ; then apply them to theEyes: or, take Wormwood, and bruife the Leaves,a handful, with Honey ; fo apply in like manner.And if a Mote has got into the. Eyes, make aPouder of Eye-bright, and blow it into the Eyes:or, the boiled Juice thereof : otherwife, blow theJuice of Onions into the Eye the Mote is,Toon bring it out. „ , ^ nb Vrobatwn ejt.and it will'For DISEASES of the EAR.S.IF the Ears be full of pain, the Juke of BourtneBerries, a few Drops put into each, is ludy h ffi-cient. If the Ears ring, put a little of tne Lall ot.an Ox into.them, and a little Cotton above If dmEars has got hurt or damage by a broke or ihok s,make a pfaifler of White Wme, Lnmi^ne, ^oney3nd Bean Meal ; fo apply Nvhere needml. but, ifthe Ears be fore by the ftroke, within, and not,the Lars l y d aro,nt v nilwithout, keep out the Kean i ,Matter has got into the SJUH dm ElrfbeVdlea, yon mult ftte « ■ Igdfeiof Church-1 aril Nettles, that grows above the Lt.!p0“d them in Vinegar, anti to apply once a-day,for 7 Days. TrobatuM ejt1{READY DOCTOR.39For the EMPYEMA.''PAKE x-2 lib. of Pulmonaria, and 1-2 lib. of\ _ Fenugreek, boil them in Rain Water together,: drink about a Tea-Cup full of this each Day till*' cured. ' _ .[" Vrobatum eft.For the FRENCH POX.TyTAKE a Decoftion of Rough Bindweed, or Wood-bine Leaves, as feme call them, the Juice ofClnna Root, of Jagged Dwarf Elder, and LignumVitte, mixed together, an equal Quantity ; Drink of| 3 hoggins, or Gills, p?r Diem, Morning, mid-dayjand Evening; this mult be done 9 Days: orI Primulae Veris, and Criue, alias Cicutae, bruifed: and Spiked. Vnbatum eft,N. B. You mult not let Cicutae Hand at the place1 Jove 7 Hours at once ; and, it muft be only applied( 1 wice : If you apply it oftener, or let it Hand longer,1 n will take away much ftrength from the Body.For the Falling SICKNESS.; 1F this ^i/order of the Falling Sicknefs be new,open a Vein in any of the Ears, and the Blood' ,at PrtK£etls therefrom, give it to the Patient tol i«i-hk "P00vvr 0,f Cok‘ WateG when the Fit ishigh. If the Diforder be, n .   ^ oich 21 Houfe or Sand|wallowsmuft oe eaten m 7 Days, 3 each day; and,i E> 2 if40T A Y L E R’sif convenient, drink a Glafs of Carnopbler Juice,after each allowance of Swallows: otherwife. thePonder of a Dead Man’s Bones drunk in ^ me,Cures a Man ; and the Ponder of a Dead Woman sBones Cures a Woman Take at once a Tea Spoon-ful of the Ponder m a ulafs of any ■done Thrice a-day for 7 Days. Or, d you canbt-'m Clover that bears White fibres betwixt meBlades, ^commonly .called F«ra Gbfs of the Juice of this once a-day for 7 Days.Probctum EJ}.For FLUXES.T^OR ftaying the Fluxes of Seed, apply CamphireF to theReins and Privy Parrs ; or, Gum Arabrcktaken inwardly, i or- P'r for Flve DayFor other Fluxes, of any kind, mix Biae BerriesCream and^them ^fesS Red and hard,’cafled B^nd Berri^ Joncommonly among Heath, and oftentimes m W oods.The next Cure is as follows : Eat a large Quantityof Pares Fled, twice or thrice; or a little StarchFlower Pcmage made thereof, and taken once^a-day,for 1 hree Days.N. B. Sup about an Lrglilh Pint, or ScotsMutchkin at once.READY DOCTOR.4£For FAINTING.A ?atk<- JVine drunk is very good : but afromSg 'Vi“ kKPVrob a turn eft.For the FRENZY.BLi? ED U1 ,the. Forehead ; or take the Gall of aare, mix it with a (dais of any Wines divideMorning Drtin.artSj ^ ^ 4 Mornings> ^r yourVrobatum eft.For FEVERS;IJ\VineFeV m be l0ung r°rnied>take ^ Glafs of WhitePoJr ' ^“’LSTr ’-rth “• 0f “at each time Fake it K 1 Wlce ^ a; ^ch^ornmg and 3 in me Afternoon, ^fu ^ ^«4 ^''X1?yiSx^;rdC?ld' #3>W. .h/rt e /‘‘f.'*'- *. not,cf ,,„i; a ,3 -boil-boiled together at once ; or, as much of Cardammis.And if there be Cold Fits in the Fever, take a goodDraught of Calamint Juice and Pepper or PeeperChewed by itfelf: otherwife, take a I andbd ofAdianthi, boil it in Rain Water, and drink about aGill or Noggin at once, once a-day, for 4 Uays.If the Fever be Complicate, commonly called, aSemetertian, drink a Strong-Ale Glaks-hnl of BlackBeer once a-day, at any Hour, for 9 Days.If it be an Influenza, or Peft Fever look m myAlphabet for the Letter 7, and you will tmd it.Vrobatum eft.For a F E L L O N.■OUT on a Plate of Lead for this Diforder aboutP 6 o’Clock in the Evening ; and let it aloneNight : Then, in the Morning, put a little -oLeaven in its place : Do this Thrice, then HeaLvvtTutiae Ointment.N B Whither the Fellon be broken or not, afterthe tint operation, Tutty will foften, give eafe, andmake whole.For FISTULAS.A Fiftula and Fellon, to all outward views, areA'SaUke, but quite different, therefor toFiftulas make a Plaifter of Brmfed Wild thymeGreen,"mixed with Salt: otherwife, apply MilkPottage where needful. VrQbatum eft.READ* DOC i UK.-43For a Fall, or Falls.IF no Bones be broken, Bleed as foon as poiTible ;that is to fay, if you have loft no Blood by the fall,then Drink a Cupfull or Two of Iinperatoria Tea :You mull ufe this Herb, as Tea, tor 3 Mornings.Probatum F.Jl.For a Sore Guts.r“pAKE a Glafs of good Rum, Gin, or Brandy. Ifyou do not chofe to take any of thefe, Drink aBowel full of Sweet Milk, and a little Pepper.Probatum Ef}.N. B. The Milk mull be well Warmed.For Sore Gums.TAKE of Plumbs 12 Ounces, of Allum 4 Ounces,Compound them together, and keep always alittle in your Mouth for 7 Days.Probatum Eft.N. B. If it be in Winter, when Plumbs cannotbe eafily got, Take a Handful of Plumb-tree Branchesand 1-4th of a lib. of Allum, boil both together, andwalh the Gums therewith, by working this Compoundin your Mouth for 15 Minutes at once.For Grief.|"^RINK heartily of Balm and Mint Juice ; other-wife, Plamaganis Juice drnnk with a littlePimento therein.Probation EJi,For the Gout.i HPAKE of Petroleum, Sive Oleum Pctrae, 7 Drops, jland not exceeding 1 o, m a Draught of Cold 1Water, every Morning, for 21 Days: otherwife, 1the Juice of Church-yard Nettles with Rum, uled inlike manner.N.B, To 3 Pints of the Juice, add 1 Pint of Rum. J* ^ IProbation Eft.For the Glackich.? iTHE Glackick, commonly called the Rickets, isCured in this manner : Make a Cataplafm ofBlack Snails, cover the Child’s whole Body therewith,and give him, or her, Water to drink that proceedsfrom an Iron Mine; alfo put Rufty Iron amongWater, and make the Child’s Gruel thereof: Do thisTwice per Week, for Three Weeks, and you maydepend upon a noble Cure.Probatum Ejl.N. B. If Mandrake can be had, the Child will beao worfe of a little once a-day during the operation.READY DOCTOR. 45For Head Difeafes.4 there be great pain in the Head, Bleeding in the| eft Arm removes it, let it be of never fo long! inding : otherwife, make a Plaifter of Bean Meal1 _ Sallad Oil, and apply it to the Head : or Drink1 Juice of Matricariae now and then.If you dread Ulcers in the Head, boil a HandfulMint in a Quart of old Urine, and anoint therewithjrke a-day, for Three Days; meanwhile Drink a3 of Nauftarti Juice.And, if the Head be Scabbed, boll i Handful ofmomile in an Englilh Pint of Vinegar, and anointivice per day till Cured : otherwife, ufe Fleabanef e in like way.f it. be a real formed Headach, fnuff Milk in atNofe, if it comes of Cold. And, if it comes ofat, anoint the Head with the Juice of Knottgrafs»v and then: or, ufe Belidis Juice inltead thereof.Ilf the Head be troubled with a Megrim, Imell atpbergreafe by times, or ufe Herb Snulf till Neezingtruly : otherwife. Bleed in the Head Vein, left:m ; or anoint the Head with the boiled Juice ofrdanae.^ ~ there be a great Pain in the Forehead, to Bath; in Sea VVater is very good ; or, hold the Head| r a Cold Kunn.ng Water Spring, and wafh it5 or 6-different times, once in a day, each day1 ‘g ; that is to fay, before Breakfaft.Probatum46T A Y L E R’sj\j, B. There are many more .Diforcters that aftthe Head, but as I run by an \lphabet, I camjfpeak of any more here. Vou will find them meturned through the vV ork, according to the Lett*they begin witli.For Humors.APPLY, outwardly, a Plaifter of Ambergre;and Wax.; and drink, inwardly, the JuiceFearherfullie, or Feverfew : Befides, Aurantionu;can n is very guod, and fo is the Juice of Hynrl ongue drunk. ,Probation EFor Hoarfnels.A Good Quantity of Brochin, commonly calWatertorucl, and Treakle, taken when goSto bed : or, i o Drops front a Phial Glafs of LavencOil, taken in a Spoonful of Port Wine.Probation ECures for Flair.| F yon want the Hair of your Head to grow, triji the Inner Bark of the Elm Tree, and mak|Decodion thereof , life this once a-day tor 14 DatjjLet the Bark iteep Se/en Days among Cold HiWater, then ufe it at .pieafiure.And, if you have got too much Pair, the Blood ofa Batt mixed with Water, is fully fuffieient : Youmull not put on the Blood by itfelf, unlei's you wantto be like the Wild Indians, who have little Hair,and very bad what is of it. sOR a Pain at the Heart, the Juice of Hynd’sTongue, or the Juice of Balm, a Glafs takenTwice a-day for Two Days, adding 7 Drops ofHartlhorn to each Glafs.For Heart Trembling.,_pAKE 1-3d Ounce of Permacaeti, or, as fome call* it, Spermaceti; but 1 call it a Bitumen of theSea’s lu.dtance, 1-2 oz. Sugar Candy, a d 1-4111 oz.of Rhubarb Pouder, pound thele together, and drinkthem all at once in a Glafs of good Porter.For the Reran Scald.TAKE 20 Drops from a Phial Glafs of the Oil ofRoles, in a i ea v^up full of Water . otherwife,the Juice of an Orange, and a little Ginger.Vrobatum ejl.For Heart Pains*Probatum Eft.Pribatum Eft.Probatum Eft,48T A Y L E K7sFor the Hickup*npKE Juice of Mint, about a Noggin, or Scots Gil!, t^ drunk each Morning for 4 Days: othenvife,Stop both your Eingers in your Ears until you count IFifty and Five regularly, and the Hickup will iinftantly be gone.For the Hepatic Flux*rT,AKE i-4th lib. of the Conferve of Rofes, andi-8th of Gum Arabick, pound thefe together,and fo take a little each Morning, dividing it intoy Parts, to ferve 7 Days.For the Hemorrhoids.'O Drink the Decoelion of Onions for this Di(orderis good ; but if bloody, I antfeed and PlantainLeaf, mud be applied : meanwhile, Drink inwardlythe Juice of Maidens < air, about 2 Noggins, or Gillsat once, once a-day, till cured.rT'AKE 1 Pint, Englilh Mcafure, of Peppermint-* Waters, add thereto 1 07.. Olleum Thy nice, andt lib. of Cold Water, take a Spoonful largely of thisProbatum EJ}.Probatwn EJ}.Probatum EJ}.For a Hepiala.everyRE\DY DOCTOR.49every 6 Hours, till done : but be fure to ftir it wellbefore you take the allowance, or elfe the Oil willbe all in the Spoon, it choofing to itay upwards.Or you may look at the letter F, and you will findanother Cure for this Dilbrder; take which youpleafe, any of them is genuine.Probation Eft.For the Heartburn.COME People may be apt to think that theHeartburn and Heartfcald are all one, but who¬ever docs fo, are grofsly miftaken : the one comes\ by reafon of Victuals that dpes not agree with the| the Bot,y; a»d the other by Colds, or Humors fallingfrom the Head to the Breaft. Therefore, for theHeartburn Eat a few Pickles of Pepper; roll andchew them a little in your mouth, then let them over:orherwife, take a Handful of Unice Toxicum, boilit in a Scots Choppin of Water : then take a TeaSpoonful of this once a-day for 5 Days.Probation EJ}>For the Fleadach.TTARE from the Left Arm Head Vein about 5 ozc.of Blood : otherwile, ufe my Cure mentionedin Head Difeafes,Probatum Eft.For Inward Bleeding.G1^? ^ ?atiem a g00*1 Draught of the Juice01 r teld 1 urneeps and Shepherds Purfe boiledtogether : tms mull be done once a-day for 7 Days.E Probatum Eft,5°T A Y L E lx sFor the Itch.A Mercurial Belt ufed around the Body : That isto fay, For one Perfon, take 1-2 oz. of QuickSilver, and 1 oz. of Hog’s Lard, otherwife calledWhite Ointment, dir thefe well together, and putfaid Compound into a long Linen Rag, then putanother Linen or Flanel Roond around it; few it up,and put it round the Body above the Navel: it willfoon diminiih the Itch, but the remains will day inthe Blood ; to prevent this, as foon as you get aboutthe Belt, draw about 5 ozs. of Blood front any Arm,any Vein ; then take, fame day, about 1 oz. of theCream of Tartar; and on the morrow 2 ozs. of Salts;if the perfon be under Twelve years of age, 1 oz.is very fufficient. After tliis operation, you maydepend upon beingthroughlycleanand cured.Some people takes this to be the bed C ute, [ 1 meana Belt,] as it is cleanly, and little trouble; they neverimagine that any other thing is needful, bccanfe :-cleans the fkin ; but if you do not apply what I hatmentioned, much better to you had n^ver feen a Bekof the kind. ~ „ ,1 liere is another Cure or two which 1 lhall here 1mention, make a Compound of Salt Butter, andBrimdone, and fo apply outw ardly : or the juiceof the Smeardock Roots and Vinegar: meantime,ufe the fame purgatives before-mentioned: otherwile,Molienewx’s Smelling Medicine, to be had at One.Shilling per Box, by holding this to the Nofe, andfmellino- at it each Morning before BreaKiad, and atNight beforerairaculoullybed-time, for 7 days, cures theProbalum EftlickREADY DOCTOR.For an Importume.T^HE boiled Juice of Myrrhe applied now andthen, is very good : oilier wife, anoint with the• Yellow Lee of a Lobfter twice a-day, for 7 days: orI NunmuIIor Juice, ufed in hke manner, is fuppofed^ to be as powerful.The middle Cure Vrobaium Eft.N. B Any of thefe Cures are good, but the midI one is beft.For Pain in tlie Joints and Nerves. -XTUTMEGS taken in meat, one per Diem, for onewhole Week. Otherwife, take a Handful ofinter-Sage, and as much Tanzy, boil them in aPint of running Water : Take a Glafs full eachEvening for the above faid time.Vrobatum eft.For Wrong Jaws.tv|7 AT 1.4th of a lib. of Figs, inwardly, and applytheir Decoction outwardly. Otherwife, anointwith Genitoe Juice, and eat a little Croci, holding thefame a long ti ne in your mouth, and more particu¬larly, if pofiible, below your Tongue.E 2Probctum Eft,52T A Y L E R’sFor the Jaundice.JlFOR the Black or Common Jaundice, take I oz.Brimftone Flower, i oz. of Earthworm Aches,put this Compound into a Scots Choppin of Worm¬wood Juice, take Two Glafs fulls thereof each day,for one whole Week.Probatum EJr.N.Ji. You will fee the Yellow Jaundice at theLetter Y.For the Iliac Paflion.T»RY a lib. of Horfe Dung with 1-2 lib. of Commonr oil, make a Plaifter thereof, and apply it wheremoft pain is ; then drink the Broth of an old nen,and ufe Garlic therein for Onions.Probatum Eft.For the Influenza.BURN i Noggin or Gill of Holland Gin, take thisearly in the Morning : then, before you bed thatfame day, drink a large quantity of Ange1.^about one Bottle ; then, take another Glafs of Gin,|unburnt: after doing this, go to bed, keep warmamong the Cloaths, you lhall have a good Weai andfjbe Whole in the Morning. Then Drink >Englilh Meafure, of Artemoliae Juice, and that Plagueor^eft Fever will ne\er feize you again.probatum Eft,ready doctor.55For the Cut of a Knife, or Knives.F the Knife was nifty, you muft lay a little Rofinto the Sore for a Day or two; then ufe a Healingalve If the Knife was clean, a grain ol Snult is■' ProbatumEfi.Lcien>.. J► ]]' If you have Britiih Oi) by you, walh, andlean the Sore therewith.For the S:one in the Kidneys.’T’HE Juice of the Sweet Grafs that grows in1 marlhy Places, drunk. This Grafs is commonlycalled Koney-grafs, upon account of its fweetnels :Take I lib. thereof, boil it among Rain Water,i-2 Pint, of its own Water, I mean the Water whereit grows, i-2 Pint, add to this 1-2 lib. of i reakle ;then work it with Uilt, or Barm, as fome calls it-:Drink a Glafs-full thereof every Evening before you'go to bed, for I x Days.« Probatum Eft.For the King’s Evil.ICE roafted, and eaten by Children, is very good:Then, let their Heads become full of Lice, untilthe Scabs appear large, fo as they may run a little.Otherwife, apply the Juice of Helena Herba, untilcured. ,E Probatum Eft.M54T A Y L E IVsTor tlie Kincough.Kincough and Chincougii are very like aother, only, the one comes of Cold, and fother of Keat : Some apply one Cure for both,I do not think that prudent.For the Kincough, Drink about 2 Gills of Heiti'ophiuin Juice once a-day for 12 days.Probatutn EftFor Sore Knees.TJHE Oil of Wax anointed. Otherwife, makeCompound of Whifky and Turpentine Oil; :h.ruo before a rouling Fire where need requires : 1be repeated till Whole.Probatum Ejl.For Kernels.FAT any fort of Pepper, a few Pickles now nnj^ then, for inward Kernels : And Turnfole See:with Salt, applied, dilTolves outward Kernels fuddenlyProbatum Ejt.For Sore Hands, or Lins.iT IP Salve is very good. Otherwife, take a WhiteHen’s Greefe, and anoint therewith as you Handin need.Probation Eft.¥HEADY DOCTOR.51For Swelled Legs*T^E Salt herrings, open them, pulling out thBack-bone, lay them to the Seles of your Feetby doing this once per day, for 7 Days, you wiexperience the benefit.Probation Eft.For a Long-formed Fever.pOR 11 Days drink Splemvort, alias Arpleni, itevery circumfhnce as Tea. Or, look For Feversm the Letter k : I ake which you pleafe.Probat urn Eft. 1For Confnrned Lungs.YonngWoman’s Milk often ufed. Otherwife 'Afs-Milk m like manner: This muft be prachfedi wice a-day for 14 Days.Probation Eft.For the Liver Difordered.]F there be any dbftrutfions at the Liver, you muldunk Bohea lea for 6 Days, about 4 Cunfupretty llrong, per day. If there be Cold at the Liverhe Juice of Woodbine, alias Honey-Suckle, alia•Lady s Fingers boiled and drunk, about one ChoppindividiJ6T A Y L E R.'sdivide it into 3 P«s, » ferve 3 Days. TOs <nnftbe taken Failing, that is to fay, before Breakia t.Otherwife, drink a Glafs per Diem of C^plnre andFenugreek Juice, or 20 I->rops, at once; of theirLiiftilled V/ater in a Spoonful 01 ^e_ ^ ^For Sore Lungs-r-t-'AKE of Hyfop Juice 1 Pint, add thereunto 1 oz.T Uouorace! and .-3 oz. of the Floor ofDrink a Glafs of this every Morning and Eveningtill tlone. Otherwife, Erigeri Jtuce ufed in hkmaimer. Probatum EJ}.For the Lethargy.rro firink Congo Tea is good OtherwifeT Hartlhorn fnulfed in at the Nofe, or m^ceAnthos Tea, and ufe it as any Tea whatfomeveruntil cured. Probatum Eft.For the Leprofy.T'AKE of Helebore Pouder i oz. Ointment ofTutke, i oz. and Sallad Oil 1-2 oz. Compoundtan t^eiher, and apply. Orbruited the Jjiice Drawn, or fqueezed out in thefolds of a Linen Cloath, and applied m like manner.Probatum Eft.57READY DOCTOR.For Lights Inflamed.TAKE of Honey ^ ozs. Common Tar 3 ozs.Starch Fonder 2 ozs. Make Pills thereof aboutthe bigneis of a large Pea : Swallow 3 at once, perDay, for 7 Days. Efl.For the Megrim,yjLEED in the Ranula Veins under the Tongue.JO Otherwife, ufe my Cure, mentioned in HeadDifeafes, within the Letter H.Yrobatum Ejl. •For a Wrong Matrix.FOMENT the Matrix with Yellow Gillow Flower,or 3 Pipe of Good Fooacco : Neverthelefs, letthe Patient drink a Glafs-full of their own Urine :or, hold Margaret, /ro tempore, below the Navel,Clofs to the Belly.Yrobatum Eft.For the Morphew.ANOINT betimes with Copperas diffolved in aSpoonful of Lukewarm Water. Otherwife, theJuice of Rott Coll ufed in like manner : meanwhile,take a Cupfull of Artimarkc Juice each Morning,•ill Cured. ^Y rob at urn Eft.53T A Y L E R'sFor Melancholy.'TAKE a good Draught of Balm and Mint Juice,I wice per Diern, for 2 Days, at any time beforeor after Meat.Vrobatum Eft.For Milk Diibrdered*TF the Milk be Cruddled, bod Parfly -with Vinegar,and anoint therewith Thrice a-day for 3 Days.Or, take 3 sVax Pills per Day, for 3 Days : mean¬time, anoint with Polygonatae Juice. Or, this juiceby itielf will do.And, if you have too much Milk, bleed in theAncle, and that is fully fufficient Or, ufe the Juiceof Ramni Baccae, 1-2 Glafs is enough for One Day :To be taken Thrice.If you have too little Milk, drink a Choppin ofSow- (hiftle Juice at one Draught, adding thereto30 Drops from a Phial Glafs of Annife Oil: Thendrink Arpleni inftead of Tea : You will foon haveMilk in abundance. Alfo, the Juice of Treefoil ufedin like manner, is fuppofed to be very fine.'Y'robatum Eft.for B ringing out the Meaflcs./"J T TE the Patient a good Draught of Whey andV hdky. Othern i't , a Handful of Figs eaten,*brings out the Mealies alniolt in one day.Vrob alum Eft./n £ A. D Y DOCTOR..59For Mother-Fits, or a SufFocation.VjAKE an OxkratLini of 1-2 lib. Vinegar, and as1 1 much Water: Take this, when moft Painabounds ; that is, before the SulFocation be trulyformed, or really fettled.Vrobaium Eft.For the Mother Inflamed.TyjAKE a Cataplafrn of Holy hook, fo apply. Or,1 1 Anoint with the Juice of Sow-Thiftle : any ofthefe are fpeedy Remedies. Otherwife, make al umatory of Ramni Baccae, or Ramile., • Y’roiatum Eft.For the Mother Pain’d, and Windy./'IF there be great Pain in the Mother, boil a Handfulof Lerhus in hik, and call it up in the Mother :T hen drink a Noggin, or Gill, of Sourack Juice ; ora litt:-e Agnus Callus in any Liquid w hatfomever.If the Mother be very Windy, boil a Handful ofImperatoria Roots in any Wine, and drink it. Or,the Juice of the Boar I hiftle in Whey. Otherwife,Eat a little Alii now and then.Prcbatv.m Eft,.6oT A Y L E R’sFor Mouth-Ulcers.Ttt '’re of Liquorace drunk, is good ; and fo ise / .c of oouracks, if you work the Juiceback and in your Mouth. Or, hold a Guineain yoiii' v,ji;r:s. /to tempore, by times : This may \appear . a mil hnr/'rfque to you, but it has proveda Cure to aiaay Ulcerous Diforders, by laying theGold upon :;.t :.Vrobatum Eft.I ’ Serves and Sin news.A Good Drat ; it of Englilh Porter, once a-day, for '21 Days, is as good a Cure as ever was tried, ieither outwardly, or inwardly.'Vrobatum Eft.For Nails ill-Coloured.TA.KC of Lintfeed ^ C7S. Honey 2 ozs and a ■andful of Water Credes, fo Compound themtogether, and apply a ft tie thereof as you iee mollproper, or as need requires.Probation eft.For Nits and Lice.MIX a little Brandy and Pepper together ; there¬with anoint where needful. Or, ule Nit-Salve.But, the firit is n.o.l applicable.Probaium eft..For Nole-Bleedina;.3 |P.late of "r Lead in the Hollow of th»White WSB t0 fm,<r UP C°b'^ -2wnite bugai Brayed, is very good. Other wifelom'the Nor11^ 12 the ®lo°d that Proceedsto drink. ^ ^ ln a SPoonfuI or two of Cold Water,lProbatum ejl.For Sore Noftirls.]F there he growing fikhy Flefh in the Nofe, ufeHai "of6^ SUS' ,'f Mh=r7fe. boil anniXo/5p,eV?a7hefLF“^fthrr.nr Vu ,rfew’ uPon account of the final!Tlfs i ei S ^ arilmg from root to flower ••> ins Indued is very fine fV .-UQ r • rr7.'Toxicum tiled in faLe form ’ ^ °f UraceProbatum ejl.For the Navel going Out.TAK? vrC Jnice of Fieabane Seed, Oil of Rofe*.c c tne '“loath continue for 7 Davs • fi>,r*<Z: “ ™ i( » ^ Per % mProbatum e/?.For Sore Nipples.A PPLY Swines Greafe, or Hogs Lard.A Pomatum, or Tuti^, once or twtce gently rub¬bed on.Ynbatum cj}.For Pimples and Spots.where needful, once pci y ,rw. Jr ., i Unnpv uled m hbe manner,wife AJumen and Money uicuProbation ejhFor Pains after ChUd-beanng-Mbelow the Ujia hearty Poflit ofHead of it,for that is the Hrength thereof.Probation eftFor the Great Pox-• K Venice. 1Vi Vinegar, together, anu -noREADY DOCTOR.63For the Small Pox.A NGELICA {backed three days in Ale, and drunk,giving more or lefs, according to the conffitutionof the Patient. Or, drink the Juice of Adianthiby times.Probatum eflTo Bring out the Small Pox.TPAKE of Milk 1 Englifii Pint,' White Wine■ -®' 1 Noggin or Gill, Virgin Honey 1 oz. Saffron1-2 oz. Boil all thefe together: Take this, at once,if a grown perfon ; the 1-2 if young : Then keepWarm among the Cloaths, and the Pox will foon.appear.Probatum efl.To Hinder the Marks of the Small Pox.^jpAKE White Wine and Frefh Butter 1-2 lib. ofeach, boil them together ; fo Anoint the Facewith a little of Paid Compound, Once a-day, forFourteen Days.Probatum efl.For the Flora.'OjASH Once a-c!ay in Sea-Water for 7 Days;’ ' Meantime, ni’e Brimllone and Honey inwardly,about a Teafpaonful per Diem : Take 1-2 lib. of* F 2 HoneyT A Y L E R’s64Honey, and lib of Brimftone Flower; and .fuppofe this ferve longer, by taking a Tea-fpoonful,ufe no more than what is needful for 7 Days: If thePerfon be under Ten years of Age, the 1.3d. of itwill ferve : But if grown, and from 10 to 50 years,they may, and muft ufe all the Compound within thefpace above fpoken.Probation eji.For .Expelling Poifon*A Large Qjiantity of Sweet Pvlilk and JuniperBerries, expells Poilbn miracnloufly. And thejuice of Rough Bindweed drunk, cures Poifon, be¬fore-hand, and after adminiftered. If an infant geta little of this Juice, [[when born,J no roilbn, everafter, will hurt him. Alfo, Cardaminis Seeds is goodagainft Poifon. Belides, Figs, Salt, Rue, and Wal¬nuts, compounded and eaten. Otherwife, OliveBerries compounded with Rue. Any of thefe arevery beneficial.Trobatum ejr.For the Palfy*DRINK the Juice of Winter Sage, and Anointwith the Oil of Milliard : This muft be doneTwice a-day, for 5 Days together. Then Bath inthe Juice of Daffadillie Roots, or Garlic, (which isthe true name,) once a-day, for other 5 Days.Frobatuni eft.N. B. You may be apt to fay, How much of thefefliall we take ? Reafon may teach you, when I pre.-v ilcribCj1READY DOCTOR.65ftribe, what ftould be taken : As there are differentConftimtions, fame will require more, and fome lefs.However, you can do no hurt by this good 'Cure, betile cafe as it will.For the Plague.OT’AKE 2 Handfulls of Water Mint, or Camphrre,± and St. John’s Wort, boil them in a Pint, ScotsMeafure, of Old ftale Beer : Take 2 Glafs-fulls ofthis, for 3 Days running : Then 2 Glafs-fulls of faidLiquor at i-4th. Moon; i-3d. Moon, as much;-1-2 Moon, as much ; and full Moon, twice as much.Phe fubltance of Mandrake, ufed in like manner.Cures the Plague. Or, if you ufe Mugworths amongyour Broath, inftead of Greens, for one whole Month,you will experience'a moft certain Cure.Probatum eft.For a Polipus.c NUFF the Juke, or Pouder of Ivy, which-ever of1116 ^ain you think proper, for one whole Week,as yon would do common Snuff.Probatum efi.For the Plewrlfy.T'ab°ut 4 ozs- of Blood from both Arms, any• - y,61?,5/ then ^vall°w « few Drops of Turpentinemvold Water: Afterwards, make a Pouder of theBlood, and take a Pea-fpoon-full thereof each Morn¬ing, for 9 Days, in a GUI of Tuffilago JuiceF 3 Probatum Efi.66T A Y L E R’sFor Diforders ot the Paps.A/TAKE a Cataplafm of Bean Meal, and Sallad 0)1,M fo lay it to the place afflided. Otherwde, anointwith the Juice of Papilaris : 1 his mnd be done whenthe Paps are very fore.And if they be hard and fu elled take a Handfulof Rue Colewort Roots, Karehound and Mint. I■ von cSnot let all thefe conveniently, any two willdo- Found the handful in Honey, and to apply onceper day till whole.'if tne Nipples be flsff and fore, ufe my Cure men-« Letter N OtherwUe, Anotnt tw.cea-day, till whole, with Florence Cil.If the Paps be Flabby and hangittg, b™feaWeHemlock, and apply it to the Brea > f a hrtand *ove 7 Hours at a Rowthere-unto, and anointed.If the Paps be hard," an^ dead, m^a PHte^fhand p^Pours^ach chyf'for 3 Days. 0, »bvuifed, and ufed m like manner.Probat uni eft.67RE A/D Y DOCTOR.For Swallowing Pins.rpAKE a good quantity of Fat Eroath, if Pins has1 got over your Threat, anti large pieces cf Breadfwallovved.But, if you dread the Pin, or Pins, be faftened inany of the inward parts, you mult take q. ozs. ofLintfeed, all at once, in any Liquid whatfoever- Ifthe Pin, or rin , itill remains, repeat the Cure, andyou may depend upon being cured.Probatum eft.For the Piles.PILEWORT and Meadowfweet pounded withSalt Butter, and applied, is very good. Or, takeof Seatike i-qth. oz. Oil of Turpentine 1-2 oz. jointhefe too-ether, and fo anoint once per-day, till cured.* Probatum eft.For the Quinly, or, Squinnance.BLEED the Ranulas under the Tongue, then rubthe Throat with Salt, inwardly; anti TurpentineOil, outwardly : This mult ye done once a-day, for4 Days.Probation eft.T A Y L E R's^8For a Reumatifin*npHE' Pouder of a Bull’s Fizzle drunk, about a Gillat once, ever, day about .velve o’clock, in theTinfture of Jorals, or Vater of f ar ; to this Gill,fer Diem, of Corals, cr i'ar, add x-6th. oz..of thePouder.Vrobatum ej}.For Sour Rifting*TAKE 7 Drops of Wax, and a Glafs of goodWhifky. Otherwife, take a Doze of Salts : or,ufe my Cure for the Heartburn.Prcbatwn eQ.For the Reins Pained.npAKE of White Carrots, commonly called Parfnips,1.2 lib. clean them well, and boil all into aChoppin of Ale ; the ilronger the Ale is, Hill thebetter : and drink this at three thimes, in one day.Otherwile, ufe the Decoction of Horfe-tail, in likemanner : That is to fay, an equal quantity thereof.Or, you may boil a handful of Idee Broom Flowersin the fame quantity, and fame way ufed, all tnefebeing equally good.Probatum eft.READY DOCTOR. 6?For Running of the Reins.THITHER drink the Juice of Batchelor’s Buttons,-* A 1 Gill per day : otherwife, the boiled fubftancc®f Wild Mint, in like form, for 12 Days.Probation eft.N. B. Li cafe you IhouH not know what BatchelorsButtons are, here follows their Defcription. Theyare in no ways nice, for they grow alinoft every¬where, and very commonly on the fides of Highways,or Roads, below Hedges, ar_J very plenty in leeground : their colour is all a Pale-green, except theSeeds, or Buttons, which are Brounhh Black theButton is hard, and about the largenefs of W inchelterPrafe.For a Rupture..TJf ENRIARIC/E Juice, hoklen to the affixed place* by a Cloath of Linen below, and Woolen above,is very good ; and in a few days, an alteration will-be feen : Still keep the Cloath wet with this Juice,and you may depend on a Cure in lefs than 21 Days.Otherwife, make Pottage of Bean Meal, and Wine ofany kind, and fo apply it by way of Poultice to theCods ; but fir ft wafh them well with Ais Milk, orthe boiled Juice of Blue Blawarts : this will anfwera Belly Rupture alfo.Probatam eft.T vA Y L E K’sFor the Eofe.A PPLY Lniieas Leaf, or, as fome call it, LilliesLeaves, oat ward ly, and a Glafs of Port \'/ine,taken inwardly : ± his muft be done once per day,for 14 Days, or take Henpen, and ufe it in like mannerfor 3 Days, outwardly : i hen apply the June ofAleppo Galls, well boiled, till cured. Take 2 ozs.of laid Galls, put them, after well brayed, into a PintScots Meafure, of Water ; let them boil into i-4th.that is, an Englifh Pint, or Scots Mutchkin •, keep aCloath ftill wet with this at the place grieved, tillwhole.Probatum eft.For Rafors Cuts.TF the Rafor be Rudy, apply Flour Meal andVinegar, by way of Poultis. If Clean, let the- Blood fatten about the Cut, and that is iufficient.|. 'Vrobatum efl.For a Stupid Perfon.ANY who finds a Stupidnefs, and forgetfulnefs,in themfelves, they ought to drinkHyiop alwaysinftead of l ea, and in fo doing, by ufing it as Pea,for j 4 or 15 Days, they will iuddenly find the goodthereof. „ , rVrobatum cjt.1For San Burning. "PRIMROSE Flowers boiled in Rain Water, anointwith their Juice once a-day for 11 Days Other-wife anoint once a-day, for 3 Da> s, with the Lioodof a Hhre Or, Clean and Walh the l ace with Mealof any kind, inftead of Soap. Creta alfo takes awaySun-burning, if ufed in Water lukewarm.Probatum Eji.For Side Sticbts.'VTUT’MEGS, Sugar Candy, and Corriander Seed,0f each 2 ozs. pounded together; a Fea-fpoon-fulltaken at each diet, till done Otherwife, OlleumPetre, 10 Drops per day, for 7 Days.Prohatum efi.For Speech Hindered."O OIL a Handful of Lavender in Rain Water, tne* J juice thereof often drunk, and wrought back and,forward in the motlth. Otherwife, Nunmullor Juiceufed m like manner.Probatum eft.For a Sore Side.TXT-AX and Swines Greafe made Plainer-ways, and^ applied to the Side afflicted: Then drink 5 Cupsof -Teen 1 ea, pretty iirong, and a little Pepper in■each Cup, inftead of Sugar Otherwife, drink asmuch Abrotoni Juice in like way.Prabatum eft.For Sneezing, or Neezing.WHITE Kelebore Pouder funded, caufeth one toSneeze, or Neeze: And the pounded Pouder ofStarch Pops the fame, by fluffing a little thereof, letthe trouble arife from any caufe whatfoever.Probatum ejl.For the Stomach Gnawing.TXRINK about 2 Gills of Rofemary Juice: or, as. much of Ulmarie Juice Otherwtfe, take theJuice of a Lemon, and a ulafs of good W hiiky.Probatum eft.For the Splen.CCALOPENDRII Juice, x Gill drunk twice a-day‘ for 9 Days Or, a Glafs of Bourtree Juice, anda little of Violets Oil, taken twice a-day for Paid time:Meanwhile, make a Plaifter of Cammoile, dry Cows-Dung, Coleworts, an Egg,.Oil of Turpentine, andBrimltone, and fa apply it to the place grieved.Probatum eft.N. B. If you cannot get Violets Oil, ufe Pepper,mmt Waters inltead therof, and the Splen will foonhe difiblved.READY DOCTOR.73For a Spotted Fever.I ET the Patient drink about an Englifh Pint of' Pofiited Ale, with the Poflit-head, for that isthe ftrength thereof, once per day, for 3 Days ; Imean as much each of thefe Days. And if you canobtain Blae Berries, a Handful eaten after each Poilit,you will ftill be the better. If the Fever be inWinter, when fuch Berries are abfent, give thePatient half as many Junipers, inftead thereof.Vrobatum eft.For the Stone and Sand in the Reins.FMSSOLVE 144 Black Snails in Wine, about twa^ Bottles of Malaga : Divide this into 12 Parts,to ferve 12 Days, warming each Part well before youtake it. i he Snails mull at firft be boiled among theWine : This is the trueft method to dilTolve them.Prob a turn Eft,To Cherifh the Spirits.npAKE of Orange Juice 1 Engl ill) Pint, and of PortWine as much ; compound thefe together, andtake a GTafs thereof each day, till done. *GProbatwn eft.74T A Y L E R’sFor Wind in the Stomach.A Little Rofe Water, and a few Drops of AnnifeOil, taken by times. Or, a little Nutmeg toevery Meal, or Corriander Seeds : Othervvife,Muftard taken to your Meat.Probatum Eft.For a Strain, by any Way.SITE AST Juice applied, and a Cloth full kept Wettherewith. Otlierwife, look at rny Cure lorStrained Bones, within the compafs of the Letter B.Frdatum Eft.To Comfort the Stomach.SOME mantain that Sweet-meats of various kinds,comforts the Stomach ; but I beg leave to diner,my opinion being quite the reverie : for, it is likePoifon to Poifon, evil to evil, Malo, nuuis, cut malarn,cfficienda ft: for Sweet-meats being generally heavy,although p eaiing to the tafte, may be obnoxious tothe Body ; and what may be a Dehla to the mouth,may in the belly bite like a Serpent, and tog like anAdder : 1 herefore, the beft Cure I can give you, is• this: Take a Handful of Held Wopsiwood^fhe lameof Tuliilago Leaves, and as much Hynd’s i ongue,boil altogether, in a Scots Pint of Water into aChoppin, or thereabouts : 1 hen drink a GLiis of this^ d°"e' Prdatum Eft.READY DOCTOR.7irFor Scalding.nPHE Juice of Brakins, or Ferns, as Tome calls them,A rubbed on. Otherwife, a little Caftile SoapdnTolved in Warm Water, applied in the Morning,and at bed-time, till Whole.Probatum E/i.For the Stone and Gravel.Vjix 1-2 Pint of White Wine and Nutmeg, a Halsof Florence Gil, and a iittlc bug r, ail £••< thenDivide this into Three Parts, to Icrve 3 rliommgs.'I'robatum eft.For Sweating.|F you want to Sweat, take a Bottle of Strong Ale 'a Glafs of Girf, Two Eggs, and a little Pepper^warmed well together, before going to bed.^ And, if you Sweat too much, drink about a Pint ofWater that comes off an Iron Mineral : Or, a Glafsof Dog-grafs Juice, once a-day, for 4 Days.Probatum EJ}.For the Sciatic.gLEED the Sciatic, or Hip-Vein; then drink ColdV ater, a good Quantity Morning and Evening,for 7 Days: Or, a Tea Spoonful of Agnus Callusdrunk m a Gill of Hehotrophium Juice.G 2 Probatum Eft.T A Y L E R ’ sFor Spitting Difficult.TAKE a Gill, or Noggin, of Elacampane Juice,once a-day, for 13 Days. Or, Eat Black Sugarin abundance. Otherwife, Pulmonaria Juice uied inlike manner. _ . aVrobatum (Jr.For the Scurvy.COCKLE, vet Cochleor Juice applied, is very good.Or the juice of Wheat Blades, when Green,mixed with White Wine Vinegar, applied outwardly,and taken inwardly. If the Scurvy be White, moiftand dry, this muft be done once a-day for 11 Days.Probatum Eji.For a Squinnance.T OOK at my Cure for a Quinfy, and it is fufficientfor this- Probation Eji.N. B. Sea-Spike and Frelh Butter applied outwardlyis alfo good.For a Heat in the Skin.^7 ASH vour Face and Hands often in your ownW Urine5™ But firft Bleed in the Left Arm, ettherHead ot- Heart Vein.. ^READY DOCTOR.77For Sickle CutScI F the Sickle was rufty, apply a Drawing Salve for2 Days: Then Tutioe Ointment till whole. If theSickle was clean, a Blade of good Tobacco is fullyfufficient. Probat urn EJ}.For Scalding by Riding.I> UB the Scalded places with an old Tallow Candle,' 1 or a piece of Clean Paper, well fteeped in OldTrine : or, Elgili Juice anointed. Vrobatum eft.A SALVE,For Speedy Healing of Wounds.* or ^oc^m Roots, Rue, Suthernwood,Woodbine Leaves, and Plantain, of each a hand¬ful, boiled altogether ; then take their Juice, add tothat the Juice of a h mdful of Man go'ld, boiled byitfeif; then to this add 2 ozs. Maftic, 2 ozs. unwroughtWax, i oz. Rofin, a!lb unwrought, and 30 Drops| fro n a Phial Glafs of t urpentine Oil; boil all togetherL in a Galiy Pot upon a flow fire. t his Compound| will keep 20 years, by letting it ftand in the Veflelyou boil it lafl: into. It will heal molt of Cuts andSores, thereby people may depend upon it beinggenuine. Probation Eft.N. B lu cafe you don’t know how to boil yourRoots and Herbs: Let them Soak upon the fire tillah. oft dry ; then fqueeze the Juice through a Lmen) Cloath, and do as above directed.G378T A Y L E IVsFor the Tefllcules Inflamed.DAISEY Leaves, with the Blood of a Cock, onceapplied. Or, Pomatum and Odeum Thy macmixed together, and applied once a-day for 7 days.Yrolaiwn eft. 'For a Tympany.THE Bark of Dwarf Elder Juice often drunk. Or,take each Morning, for 17 Mornings, a Choppinof Water that proceeds from Iron or Lead Minerals.Prebatwn Efi.For the Toothach.MUSTARD and Hartfhom mixed and applied. Or. ,take about 1-2 oz.Olletnn 1 hymac, Sive Oiigrnm,Wet a little Caddice, therewith apply this to the Teethtormented, by rubbing it backwards and forwards, ;holding down your head, that the (limey matter may.vet vent: This will give eafe in 20 Minutes. Other-wile chew Naufturti in the Mouth, pro tempore.Probatum Ejr.For Tooth Disorders.1 F the Teeth be pained, rub them with Angelica,J’ cr Raddilh Roots.READY DOCTOR.79If you want to breed new Teeth, rub Black Snailsupon the Gums now and then. Or. Corriander Seedoften chewed : or Adtanthi Blades in like manner.If you want to root out broken Tooth, Crowfootput in die Tooth all lifted, or hollow v here it is : or,Lilioris Juice applied, will foon bring it out, to yourgreat admiration.And, if you want the Teeth White, and firm, Rubthem with a little of Thyme Oil once per day for oneWeek : This will Whiten them very well. Treefoilchev/ed, will make the Loofe Teeth the firmeft youhave.Pfobatum Efi.For the Throat Sore.-rTIE Juice of the Bramble Bufh, and Parietory,A boiled together, a Glafs taken inwardly once perday, for 8 Days : Meantime anoint outwardly withLintfeed Oil.Probation EJ}.For Furs, Thoyns, and Whins, &c.IF you cannot get them out conveniently, you multtake a little Goofe Dung, or Swine’s Greafe, andRofin, mixed together : Lay this to the place tor¬mented, and it will Toon bring it outProbatum Ejh;V. B. Whatever it is, this Cure is fufficicnt.8bT A Y L E R’sFor the Temples.*IF the Temples of the Head be weak and Sore,wafli them often with Treefoil Juice, and it wallftrengthen them greatly. Calendula: Juice will dothe fame.Vrobatum tft.For Tetters and Ringworms.MAKE a Cataplafm of Wild Cucumber, BurntBarley, and Turpentine Oil: Or, a Plaifter ofDove’s and Sheep’s Dung, mixed together ; any ofthefe muft be let ftand 13 Hours before a renewal:To be renewed 6 times.Probalutn Eft.For Staunching Third.IOANNA and Lemon Juice is fully fufficient.Probatum Eft.For Sore Toes.THE Juice of Indian Spinnage is good. Or, Anointwdth Tutty Ointment till cured : This muft bedone once a-day.Probation Eft,READY DOCTOR.8tFor Provoking Terms.BOIL of the Tree of Life, alias Arbor Vitae,1-2 handful, as much Dock Roots, and a full hand¬ful of Meadowfweet, or Imperatoria : boil them alltogether in a Pint of Rain Water, into a Choppm :Take a Glafs-full of this precious Juice twice a-day,for 3 Days.Probat urn EJ}.For Tumors Hot.THE Juice of Woodbine Leaves drunk inwardly,about i Pint, Scots Meafure, in 3 days: Mean¬while make a Salve of boiled Rue Leaves, Brimftoneand Butter : apply the fame outwardly.Vrebaium Eft.For Tongue Diforders.Fthe Tongue be Rough and Sore, Sugarcandy ufedis very good, by working it back and foreward inthe mouth. Alfo. W ild or Crabb Apples eaten : or.,Allum diffolved in the Mouth: or, Millefolium Leaveschewed. And, if the Tongue be Smooth, and Sore,dilfolve a little Aloes, beft kind, in any Wines, appliedas you fee meet.Vrobatum Eft.*2T A Y L E Il'sFor Helping the Tafte.TT AT Tome Strawberries in Summer, and drink theJuice of Won Treefoil in Winter, when you findneed requires.Vrobatum Eft.' For Worms in the Belly.T\RINK die Juice of Tanzy and Goofeberry Leaves,^ dried ; both tfiefe boiled together. Or, bind ahandful oi poor red Earth around the Body : thismuit be done thrice, once per day, for 3 Days.Other wife ufe my Cure for Belly W orms, mentionedwithin die Compafs of the Letter B.Prcbatum Eft.For the Uvula falling.Yl/ARM a handful of Salt, and lay it to the Neckbehind; then drink an Englifii Pint of Hynd’sTongue Juice : or the Juice of Glyerrhizac in likemanner.Vrobatum Eft.For the Urine flopped.'-THE Juice of Millefolium taken in Vinegar: Or,the Juice of Broom Flowers : Or, the Juice ofArbor Vitae, that is, the Tree of Life : To drink aChoppin of any of thefe, will caufe you void Waterin lefs than j 5 Minutes.Probation EJ}.4READY DOCTOR. 83For Scalded Urine.A/f AKE a Syrup of Dry Rofes : Or, drink the Juice-1 of Bull’s Flower, about a Choppin per day for3 Days : Or, Calendula; ufed in like manner.Vrobatwn Eft.N. D. Bull’s-Flower grows in marlhy ground andMeadows, of a dark red colour, a finall (talk, and verylarge blooming head, about 150 Pores within thecompals of one Head.For Ulcers in the Members.m- ■r I ''HE Pouder qf Southernwood, or, as Tome callthat 1 erb, Apple Rainzy, burnt to Allies, mixed1 with Honey, and applied.Probatum sfi.For Ulcers in the Matrix.' I ''AKE of Agnus Callus i-6th. oz. and 11 Drops^ ^ of Hartfhora in a Spoonful of Cold Water ;repeat the lame each 3 Hours, for one whole day.Otherwife, foment with Nicotianae, then ufe my Curefor a Falling Down of the Womb.Probatum Eft.84T A Y L E R’sFor Warts in the Private Members.APPLY the Blood of a Drake, or Blood of an Eel,and you may depend upon being cured.Probatum Eft,For Ulcers in the Mouth.TOBACCO fmoaked is very gobd, and will be aCure to thofe who does not ufe to SmoakTobacco. Otherwife, look at my Cure within thecompalsof the Letter M. for Mouth Ulcers, and thatwill anfwer any Perfon or Perfons whatfoever.Frobaium Eft.For Warts.LOOK at my Cure for Warts and Corns : or,Anoint with a Strong Juice of Willow Leaves,and it will loon dillolve them.Probatum Eft.For Falling Down of the Womb.A Piece of Wax, made round, put up in the Womb,is fufficicnt.Prcbatum Eft.lx Jl. A. U I U U U 1 U IV.For Clearing the Voice.TV AW Eggs (wallowed, Black Sugar Eaten, or-*'L Perrnacetae, alias Spermacetae, and Sugar Candy.Otherwife, Yellow Skellocks.or Runchichs,that growsamong the Cora, their Juice drunk.Frobutum EJ}.For the Vertigo.f I WKE a Tea Cup full of Plantain Juice, for 3 Days,-*• Morning and Evening: Or, Eat a little Gingerby times, taking a hearty Doze of Salts, to carry offthe Humors.Probatum Eft.For Over-much Vomiting.u5?,1Mugworths. for Greens, among your Broath,[ Days. Or, the Juice of Wormwood andDemon, a moderate Quantity ufed in like manner.Otherwife, take a draught of MelifTe and MolochiaJuice, boiled together.Pi-obatum Eft.For Venus Games.T F ftrength be wanted, anoint with Whin or FurrA Leaves. Otherwife, the Blood of a Fox. And,if too keen, drink the Juice of Poplar Flowers andH Vine-‘jrvTt—rr—i—Ti—n—rr—”Vinegar : alfo, apply Hemlock, but it mu ft not ftanclong, or ftrength will leave you in that way altogetherProbtUum EJf^N. D. Hemlock muft not (land above 7 Hours,irou make it by way of Poultice.To Canfe one Vomit.TNRIiVK a Mutchkin of Raddiih Juice, add about aThimble-full of Oil thereto, and drink it. Or,put your Finger to .your Gullet, in the Hollow of the;Thrapple, prefs it a httle, and j ou will vomit in the.twinkling of an Eye.Fribatum Eft. \N. B. Any of thefe are better and more harmlcG. than common Vomiters commonly ufed.For Warts and Corns.||5l>UISE Crowfoot, or Wart Grafs, any of the" twain you choofe, and fo apply.P rub at urn Eft.To Caufe one Keep Water.A JAKE a Ponder of the Brains of a Rare, drink thex ^ fame in a Glafs of Wine: t his muft be done atI-4th h'oon, 1- yd. Moon, 1-2 Moon, and full Moon,the whole Brains at once; and Roafted Meat frequent¬ly ufed ; or, the fugar of Rofes now and then.Probidum Eft. iRE \ D Y DOCTOR.87For Wens, or \\renns.TAKE the Juice of Aleppo Gawls, mi\ this withVinegar, Nitre, and vVine, as much, or as littleas you pleafe ; fo rub the YVenns therewith Thricea-day till cured.Probatum EJ}.For Women’s Longing.I'"' IVE a few Pomgranates to the longing Patient jor, a little Honey, and the Syrup of Rofes.Other vife, a Glafs of Ameos Juice 7 times in oneday j that is, 7 GlatTes.Probatum efi, •For Wheafing.T> LISTER with Cantharides, betwixt the Shoulders,^ then Eat 1 bzs. of the Conferve of Rofes per day,for 11 Days. Otherwife, ufe my Cures for a Shortnessof Breath, and Defluctions in the Breaft.Probatum EJ}.For Women’s Flowers, and After-Birth.C EE my Cures for Falling Down of the Womb, and^ Ulcers in the Matrix: Or, make Flower Pottageff Starch, Milk, and Vinegar, by way of Sowens, ofH 2 each88T A Y L E R’seach an equal Quantity, fup about an Englifh Pint oithis, and immediately after foment with Nicotians. "Probalum Eft.To Stop a Wound Bleeding.T INEN Caddice burnt, and laid thick upon theSore, or Wound. Otherwife, look within thecompafs of the Letter B. and you will -receiveinftru&ion.Probation ef.For Green Wounds.T3EECH Timber burnt to Afties, put a little of the IPouder upon the Sore, and it will foon be w hole, iProbation Eft. (For a Whitlae.IF it be grown very large, you mufi: open the placegrieved w'ith a Launce, and apply my Healing Salvementioned within the compafs of the Letter 5. IfJthe Whitlase be but green, that is to fay, newly begunto grow, put a little of Men’s dung to the place, andit will flop it from hurting the Nail, and cure theFinger alfo. This mull be done once a-day for5 Days.Probation Ef .. *READY DOCTOR.P or Women’s Eafy Delivery.'THE Oil, Tinchire, or Water of Yellow Oran-esfgiven to the Patient, about a Glafs-full, or betterAnd Blae Berries, in their feafon, is no worfe foithis purpofe.Probatum Eft.For Women’s Miscarriage.r^. ,a HanTd/ul of Ha>-ts-Tongue, Rue, as mudMaiden s Hair, and 2 ozs. Rhubarb ; boil allthefe together, and drink 3 Glafs-fulls per day, tilldone A Scot, Pint of Water, or thereabout, i<enough to bod thefe in. Or Rufcii, one handful,orn as much, and Squills as much, boiled in the likequantity of <\ ater, and made ufe of fame way. Byunng any of thefe for one whole Week, you maydepend upon being cured, to your great fatisfacbon.Probiitum ejt.For Procuring Milk.DRfINK AfP,eni f°r Tea, and ufb it in like mannfor 21 • >ays, (tr, * ■    'iiaiiiia 1 ^ 1 T . ~ ' ''1 ’ Annife v ceds eaten bv timeAbo the Juice of Arbor Vite a Glafs f,-u „ ^ Tfnr ,. ^ J JJls'*1"' once a-d;lor 11 1 lavs: is r • _ • 1 ., ■ . - ■ ’ “ - 'aio-iun once ;n , qvs’ *s Verv Rwd, for it quickens the me orabS;™: y’ f'aufeth to now»yVrabatum Eft.'OT A Y L E R’*For the Yard Difordered.■ARINK the Juice of China-Riot : or, Sup the' Breath of an old Cock. Meantime, if diforderedutwardly, apply a large thin Slice of half boiledbutton once per day, till whole. \ou may dependpon this being a molt certain Cure.1 ^ Prdatum eft.For the Yellow Jaundice.rAKE a few Red Nettles, Plantain and Saffron;about one handful of the Nettles, and as much•lantain^with 2 ozs. Saffron ; boil them all togetheii a Scots Pint of Strong Ale : I hen dr ink i \Pafs-fulU per day, till done, without reftramt of diet,yfter this. Anoint the wkole of your body v.u.i^rPleni JUICe- Yrdaium eft.To Gaufe one look Younger-like.■>LF.AN your Face in Summer witlr the Juice of^ Wild Rofes; and in Winter with your,own[ripe, or the Juice of Camphire : In doing this, you■ill appear Ruddy, and of a goodly Complexion.Prdatum eft.Here ends the Defcription of different D^'ers =nroceed to give you a DilcourleI therefore now proceedconcerningBleeding, and its Virtues.But,READY DOCTOR. 91But, in the firft place, let me obferv'e to yen,rhat all the Plants, Herbs, and Flowers, mentionedn this Book, are governed by Planets, each beinginder its own Planet, in proper order It would be00 tedious to draw out a Catalogue therof, and I feeio occalion for lb doing, as you could but reap fmallrood therefrom, unlel's well Ikilled in Phylic : and, if’on were, you would not need them Be pieafedvith what you have got, and let this fuffiee you, thatthe real Cures for the different Diforders, are laiddown to your view, and that without dilfimulation :For I have explained the difficult Names at the begin¬ning of this Work, that are given to many Dileales,Prugsi* and Herbs, &c And as for the reit, althoughten times more in number, every peribn knows themby the Names they commonly bear. Any fcruppleor doubt, you may depend upon it, I have been honeftin my explanation.Signed, PETER TAYLER.April, 4fh. 1785. ,vXXXXXXXXXXK=XX^^XXXX^X — —— , — >xxxxxxxxxxx=xxxxxxxx>ATREATISECONCERNINGBE EEC IN C\4. 4-—*——— BLEEDING was at firlt invented for good ends,and falutary purpofes, although oftentimes . bnltdand milapplied.To Bleed in the Left Arm, removes ancient Pain,and every difordered Headach It is alfo good forFalls and Bruifes, &c.Your firft Bleeding is good for different Diforders,and generally proves a Cure, except in fome veryextraordinary cafes : and in thofe cafes Bleeding ishurtful.• ' •*If a Woman be Pregnant, to draw a little bloodgives her eafe, good health, and a lufty Child.Bolides,A Treatife on Bleeding. 93Beiides, Deeding is a moft certain Cure for no lefsthan 21 Diforders, without any other outward orinward applications r And for many more, with appli¬cation of I 'ruggs, Herbs, or Flowers, as lliall be foundneceflary thereunto.n hen I ana is inclinable, you may Bleed at anyFour, Hay, or Night : And when declinable, youHiuit not Bleed but in the Alorninft.Bleeding may be performed from March oth. toNov i9th. No Bleeding in December, January,or rebruary, unlefs a clamant occafion require I etme obferve to you, March, April, and November,a„r.e ;.he 1 hree chiefeft Months of the h ear lorBleeding in : but it may be performed with fafetyfrom the 9th. March, to the ,9th. November, asabove (poken. Now, to prevent the prejudices-thatanfeth irom Bleeding, Jet none open a Vein, but aperfon of {kill. I am furprifed to fee fo many pre-en ea Bidders, or rather Man-f!aughterers; andmore luqjriled ftill to fee people trulbng themfelvesinto their hands, by their whinning pretenfions; forthey do not know a Diforder among a hundredexcept it be per chance : and, although you tell themthe trouble yourlelf, they do not know what Vein toopen ! Confequently, they may take a wrong, as ibontU a8ht e 'n I‘K,e1ed> they "id Launce the onetnat ftarts beft. And lev/ of them knows the NamesVeins bear, which fhows ignorance in its deeped dye.T here are three forts of people you mud not letthem Bleed you : The hrit are fuch as I have beenfpeaking of: 1 he fecond are Irembhng Hands,whether fulled, or uhfkilled : For, when the handtremb.es, t.ie Launce may be apt to dartle from theVein.94 A Treadle on Bleeding.Vein, by reafbn of unfteadinefs ; the Flefli then isdamaged, and v ay in a!i probability beal rery much,and torment the innocent patient Iliirdly, Let noWcrien bleed you, but thole w*io have gone througha courfe of Vlidwifry at the College ; for thofe whoare unh’lled, may, through downright dupidity, cutan. Artery, to the great damage of the employer.Betides, what is ftdl worfe, thofe petty pretendedElooders, who take it up at their own hand, or fuchas themfelves, generally keep mean un-edged and ruityLauncets. Now, mean, un-edged, and ruity Launcets,would prince hurtful even in a hand of ikilh ^ Accord¬ingly, you ought to be cautious m chowling yourPhylician : A man of learning knows w bat Vein tooren, for fuch and fuch a diforder, or d.fbrders : . teknows how much 5/Wto take, as footi as he fees thepatient; and he can give you a wholefome advice,which will tend greatly to the fatisfaftion of yourmind, and health ot your body.Bv what has been faid, you may eaftly guefs whoare qualified for this important Office ; and it willprove very much to your comfort and advantage..•Nov, 3d. 1785.PETER TAYLER.XKY'MXXXXXXX-- XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX-XXXXXXXXXXTHESUPPLE M E N T.Concerning Mineral WELLS.^KRISTIAN Patients, having now given you afull detail of the many Difealcs that Men andWomen are fubjected unto, with ver/ applicableCures: I now proceed to ihow you tl^e ufes anilvirtues of the molt known Mineral W ells in GreatBiitam and Ireland. And, although li>me fantalticfools may be apt to fay, 1 am now living, v ith gildedwmgs, to Geographical Eiflory, I doubt rot but vouwould have found fault tvitli me, had I neglected ludivaluable oblervations.. I ll)all begin with the many and variouskinds of \ veils in •' cot land. In Ipeaking thereupon,1 mall mention 1 hirteen.Ihe i.rlf thereof, is Grews-Well, near the Burghof Dimkeld. bhis Wdll of Water proceeds fromLead, ,ron, silver and Gold ; and w as, in our fore¬fathers days, frequented by people of all ranks, by theforger.es and lies of the l opilh Clergy, who appliedit to more ires, and made it anfwer more feemed- h,oly ends tll-en it really did. Although this Well betne belt in ScoiLnii, and deferves a place frfi, yet wemuff not believe PopiJh fables, or elfe this Well. would be of as much fervice as the Lord of glory1• Ae bu.N of'Lighteoulhefs, vhich taketh away theims of the v orld i I or, they pretend, that if a youngMan or Woman, who comm itted the foul aft offornication, &c. went to that Well, and were v afl.edthere.Mineral Wells.therein, by the deluding Prieft, they were freed fromthe tin and guilt of fuch and Inch a fin, or crime, lettheir various aggravations be never fo many !'.! But,as wood things may be often abufed, fo was thisMmeral Wiell : For, its real Virtues were hidden byPopifh tyrants, and forged ones implanted mfteadthereof I ihall begin then to defcribe its Virtues,which are as follows. If a Child, male or female, beborn w ith the Glackich, or Rickets, by bathing (aidChild thrice a-day, for 3 Days r and, if it be a perfonof riper years, he or ihe muft batli as above Ipoken,and drink a Scots Pint of faid Water at each plunging,then -a fpeedy cure will loon follow. 1 his I haveexperienced, and known by numbers, who wentthither a'flitted with faid trouble. Rut to f,y, asfome fivs, that it cures ore Legs, Sore Arms, See.is what'I will nor. And fome mantatn, as there arefeveral Stones refembling the diif. rent parts of theHu man Body about the \Ve is mouth, that if tneydrink off fuch and fuch a Stone, for Inch and Inch a1 iforder, tbev will be inftnntly cured. 1 his 1 taketo be fabulous ftories, handed down to poftenty byold Matrons, profeffors of Vv eirdilm. But lure 1 am,it Cures the Rickets, as above fpokem And I believeit is alfo verv ufeful to thofe v ho are troubled wi ha Megrim, Morphew, and Melancholy : By drink gand bathing as need require.I now come to Pitcaithley Wells near DumbarneyPhce I hele W ells proceed fro o Mime and oulphur.They are death to Come, and life .0 others. I holeof a Hot Condi'tition, t advife them to keep free ofthem. For It is addiiig fre to lire , W* «*, .«<’af’dinif H‘- But thole of a Cold Condimtionmay yo to them with all manner of delil-eratc freedom,forthefe .Veils have proved Cures to many of thatnature, who were troubled with Scabious Ulcers,Scruffs, Headachs, Scurvies, ami inward Bealings.Alfo, very beneficial to thofe threatened with aDecline.I now proceed to Moffat Wells, near the Baronnyof Moffat. Thefe VVells proceed from Lead, Iron,Silver, and Cold: the very fame Metals that Crew’sVv'ell proceeds from. Thefe Wells are now had ingreat efteem ; and people of all ranks pays a yearlyhomage thereunto, from every corner of Scotland :And, in Ihort, they are very much frequented by theEngli/h Nobility. They have not the fame Virtuesthat Crew’s Well has, and yet they have them all butbne; and that is, Crew’s Well Cures the Rickets,while Moffat-VVells does not. And Moffat-Wells(ns a Virtue that Crew’s Well has not; and that is,Moffat-Wells Cures a perfon troubled with theEmpyema, wlikh is a Sore Diforder, as bad as theRickets : So that, when rightly confidered, bothWells may be accounted equally equal. In fhort, ifboth \VeHs do not Cure a threatened Confumption,nothing elle-uieed be applied.I now proceed to the Tide-Well near Renfrew►vhich, although a confxderable way from the Sea*dabs and flows with the Sea ; and although FrefhWater, gives more flrength then the Sea itfelf byaathing.I now come to the Rowting Well at Edinburgh,rhis Well Cures the Itch wonderfully. Alfo, theres a Well near faid place, called the Oily-Well, byeafon of a \ ellow Bitumen that appears upon ’thebrface of the Water, this \VTater proceeds fromSulphur alone, and is very good for Curing Scabs,■ores, and Headachs.IIVIllTClT ic,93I now go to the Inch-head Well at Perth. This 1Well proceeds from Lead and Iron, Silver and Gold,)feemingly ecjual to Crew’s Well, and Moffat Wells. 1but very different; for I never knew this Well Cure Iany Diforder but one, and that is a tieadach, bybathing the Head each Morning therewith, beforeSun-riling, for one whole Week. \ou may be aptto lay, Why has not the Inch-head W ell as mud'Virtue as Grew’s ell ? 1 anfwer, At Crew’s WcLthe Mountains are higher, and Valleys lower: befidesI believe the Silver is more plenty than at Inch-heacWell, or at Crawfoord-Muir, where Silver and Gokcould be digged in abundance, if liberty were granted.There is a VV ell at the d own of Ballinderron, tinfame with the Oily , v-ell at Edinburgh.And, there is a v ell, called the W hite Crofs Weltnear Collace, that proceeds from Lead alone, remarkable for no Cures, the people being ignorant of itVirtues. But, knowing this \V ell myfelf, to be aexeat ufe, I think it deferves a place: For it’s Waterare fo cooling and refrefhing, that if any W ind bupon the Stomach, it carries it off wonderfully. Behdeit is good for perfons of a weak appetite, by drinkinja little thereof by times.I now go to Peterhead. There is a W ell therethe fame with Pitcaithly.A1 fo, another at Aberdeen, the fame ftill; 10 neec;no further defcription „ , , . , --I now conclude the Wells in Scotland, with Kinghorn, and Balbriggy Wells in Fife; both of them atalike: they proceed from Iron, and Coal, with ‘-treanof Slime-done, they are good for curing SoreUlcers, Megrims, Plora, and Influenza. 1 he e \. elwere generally adorned with Noble Guefts, who weithither for their health, although now had in httefteem.Mineral Wells.99L f.n°w, take ,a ^ew of England. At Bath, the.Coid Bath is the fame with Pitcaithly. But the hotlone is quite different.L At SPaw Wells in Yoridhire, the Wells are juft the| lame. JAt Dortwitch in Worchefter/hire there is a WellIthat is juft the fame with that one at Renfrew.< Li"c1olnL there is a Wel] fimular to the OilyJWell at Edmburgh. _ Ji I now pafs over to Ireland. And firft, I take aIw'nf Lochfa^1: h has al1 the Virtues Crew’sr Srhas> an^ 15 a«ended with the fame properties.Alfo at Omagh there is a Well, which I have.^ In inert, there are many V/ells in Ireland nothinenfennr to thofe m Scotland : Bnt as few Scotfme?fell go there for their health, the people in Irelandmows fuch Wells beft themfelves, and n hat theytre fn,table for. To tell the troth, Ireland, for henpport of human hfe, abounds with plenty, ,„d„.(pare nothmg behtnd any of our Chrift.an Kingdom'>cmg bleffed with great abundance. L ’S'12 kcW giTen y°U this illort Narration, whichrightly obferved, may prove very ufeful; I concludehVw Tt °f lhf,Plahnift D-kI, and holy obAlthough the troubles be many that afflicT: the luft,yet the LordVn his S°od timeand way, Sll «4 them out of diem all A,-, 1 nUU™ 1 n ■ uyerffinis.B^- 4>—4—4—~4-^ >i0*(& ?O0*0INDEX.A15ib.16ib.ib.ib.ASTHMA, Page 13Ague Qiiartan, 14Aged Per ions Comforted,Anthony’s St. Fire, ib.Aches, — —Axes Cyts, — —Apetite Weak, —Apetite Greedy, —Apoplex, — —Apoftames, — —BBarren nefs, —Brain Moift, —Brain Weak, —Bruifed Nerves, —Blood Gloated, —Blood Procure, —Blood Cleanie, —Bubly Nofe, —Blood Spitting, —Breaft Dtefludtions,ibibib25ibibib17ib.ib.ib.18ib.ib.ib.ibib'*9ib.Brealt Wounds Inwardly,Beardinels,Breath Sweetened,Breaft Cleanfed, —Belchings, —Bones Broken,20ib.ib21ib.Bones Disjointed,Page 22Bites of Mad Dogs, ibBowels Pained, —Beauty Preferred,Bodies Lean Helped,Bodies Over-grown,Bodies dead Preferred,ibBodes, — —Belly Loofe, —Belly Worms, —Bladder Sore, —Blood Pilling, —Bitings Venernous,Bites Serpents, —Back Pained, —Burning, — —Belly Bound, —Bleeding Stoped, —Bealing Hindered,Breaft Wounds outwardlBruifes, ■— ^Blood Pouders made, 2Breath Stinking, — dBones Strained, — ^CChaftity Preferred,Convulfions,2ibCoughs, —INDEXCods and Stones Swelled,Page 28Choleric Padlon, — 29Cholic, — — ib.Child Dead Expelled, ib.Condyloma, — 30ChincoLigh, — — ib.Carbuncles, — 31Cramp, — — ib.Cruels, and Glandules, ib.Corns, — — — 32Catharts, & Catarrahs, ib.Cancer, — — ib.Choler, and Phlegm, ib.Confumption, — 33Choleric Colic, — ib.Colds, — — ib.Courfes Wrong, — 34Clap Venereal, — ibChops and Cankers, ib.DDreaming Hindered, ib.Dead Bod i es Prefer ved, 3 5Drowfinefs, — ib. •Digeftion Slow, — ib.Drunkennefs, — ib.Deafnefs, — — 36Dropfy, — — ib.EEpilepfy, — — ibEyes Difeafes, — 37Ears Difeafes, — 38Empyema, — — 39FFrench Pox, — ib.Falling SickneP, — ib.Fluxes, — — 4cFainting, — Pagt: 41Frenzy, — — ib.Fevers, — — ib.Fellon, — — 42Fiftulas, — — ib.Falls, — — — 43GGuts Sore, — — ib.Gums Sore, — — ib.Grief, — — 44Gout, — — — ib.Glackich, or Rickets, ib.HHead Difeafes, — 4511 urriors, — — 46Hoarfnefs, — — ib.Hair Cures, — ib.Heart Pains, — 47Heart Tremblings, ib.Heart Scald, — — ib.Kickup, — — 48Hepatic Plux, — ib.Hemorrhoids, — ib,Hepiala, — — ib.Heartburn, — — 49Headach, — — ib.IInward Bleeding, — ib.Itch, — — — £0. Impoftumes, — 51Joints and Nerves, ib.Jaws Wrong, — ib.Jaundice, — — 52| Iliac Paffion, — ib.Influenza, — — ib.KI Knives Cuts,I 353INDEXKidnies Stone, Page 53King’s Evil, — — ibKincough, — — 54Knees Sore, — — ib.Kernels, — — ib.LLips and Hands Sere, ib.Legs Swelled, — . 55Long-formed Fever, ib.Lungs Confumed, — ib.Liver Diforders, — ib.Lungs Sore, — 56Lethargy, — — ib.Leprofy, — — ib-Lights Inflamed, — 57MMegrim, — — ib.Matrix Wrong, — ib.Morphew, — — ib.Melancholy, — 58Milk Difordered, — ib.Meailes brought out, ib.Mother Suffocated, 59Mother Inflamed, — >b.Mother Pained, &c. ib.Mouth Ulcers, — 60NNerves and Sinnews, ib.Nails Difordered, — ib.Nits and Lice, — ib.Nofe-Bleedings, — 61Noltrils Sore, ■— ib.Navel Wrong, — ib.Nip’les Sore, — 62Pimples and Spots, ib.Pains after Child-birth, ib.Pox Great, - Page 62Pox Small, — — 63Pox Small Furthered, ib.Pox Marks Hindered, ib.Flora, — — — ib.Poifon Expelled, — 64Palfy, — — — ib.Plague, •— —- 65Polipus, — — ib.Plewrefy, — — ib.Paps Diforders, — 66Pins Swallowing, — 67Piles, — — — ib-OOuinfey or Squinnance,ib. 1RReumatifm, — —'68Rifting Sour, — ib.Reins Pains, — — ib.Reins Running, — 69Rupture, — — ib.Rofe, — — 7°Rafors Cuts, — ib.SStupidity, — — ib.Sun Burning, — 71Side Stiches, — ib.Speecli Hindered, — ib.Sore Side, — — 72Sneezing, orNeezing, ib.Stomach Gnawing, ib.Splen, — — jb.Spotted Fever, — 73Stone &Sand in the Reins,Spirits Cherilhed, — ib.Stomach Wind, — 74Strain by any way, — ib.INDEXStomach Comforted, P.74Scalding, — — 75Stone and Gravel, ib.Sweating, — — ib.Sciatic, — — ib.Spitting Difficult, 76Scurvy, — — ib.Squinnance, — — ib.Skin Heat, — — ib.Sickle Cuts, — — 77Scalding by Riding, ib.Salve Speedy Healing, ib.TTefticules Inflamed, 78Tympany, — — ib.Topthach, — — ibTooth Diforders, — ib.Throat Sore, — 79Thorns, &c. — — ibTemples Weak, &c. 80Tetters & Ringworms, ibThirft Staunched, — ib.Toes Sore, — — ibTerms Provoking, - 81Tumors Hot, — ibTongue Diforders, - ibTaite Helping, — 82UWorms in the Belly, ib,Urula Falling, — ibUrine Stopped, Page 82Urine Scalded, — 83Ulcers in the Members, ib.Ulcers in the Matrix, ib.Warts Priv. Members 84Ulcers Mouth, — ib.Warts, — — ib.Womb Falling Down, ib.Voice Cleared, — 85Vertigo, — — ib.Vomiting Hindered, ib.Venus Games, — ib.Vomiting Forwarded, 86W arts and Corns, — ib.Water to Keep, — ib.Wenns, — — - 87Women’s Longing, ib.W healing, — — ib.V\ omen’s Flowers, ib.Wounds Stopped, — 88Wounds Green, — ib.Whirls:, — — ib.W omen’s Delivery, ib.Women’s Miftarriage, 89— Milk Procuring, ib.YYard Difordered, —> 90\ ellow Jaundice, — ib ,Y outh Preferred, — ib.SUBSCRIBERS NAMESI he EA.IL of BEC FIVE, 8 CopiesT ADY Abercairney, 2 Copies.Matthew Aialerfon, Farmer, Gowlin,Robert Allifoii, Far tier, Meckven.Mr Adamfon. School.nailer, Rhynd.David Anderson, Boatmafter, In'hyra.James Andrew, fenior, Stenhoufe-Muir.James Andrew, junior, Stenhoufe-Muir.John Anderfo i,/Baker, London.Peter Ackworth. Gardener, London.BMr John Boyd of Velvethall.Gideon Bell, Toll-mailer, Cleekhimin.Robert Birrel, Tavlor, Foxton.Alexander Birrel, Baker, Auchtermuchty.Mr James Barnet, Schoolmaller, Edinburgh.John Brand, Gardener, Bowhill.James Brown, Farmer, Carlefgall..David Balfour, Fordel.Robert Bell, Wright, Coledie.Samuel Baxter, Correndall.James Bannerman, Smith, Philadelphia.Patrick Burges, Vintner, London.Torrence Brodie, Merchant, Edinburgh.CSir William Cunnynghame, Capringtone.James Correy, Merchant, Dromore.James Clandinning, Mariner, Holywood.V\ illiam Cairns, W right, Eddleilon.Thomas Chrichton, Gardener, Dalkeith.David Collier,^ W eaver, Auchtermuchty.John Cunnynghame, Rofs-houie.John Clark, Edmonftone.SUBSCRIBERS NAMES.Tames Cockburn, Weaver, Paithead.David Caird, Bridgend of Doumemill.Andrew' Crkhtoi), ferrv-partoncraigs, 3 Copes.Lawrence Cook, 'V right, London.Nathaniel Cruickllianks, Dublin.Andrew Campbell, Domantyvaig.Donald Cameron, Achnacliray.Peter Crooks, i aylor, Dublin.Daniel Campbell, Philadelphia.DMr Patrick Donelly, Merchant, Omagh, ^ Copies.William Dickfen, Fewer, Coldftream.James Dowglafs, Innkeeper, Haddington.William Dickfon, Joiner, Cokhtream.Peter Duncan, Taylor, Dunboig.Tames Duncan, Merchant, Auchtermuchty.John Duncan, Stone-ware Merchant, Auchtermucnty.lames Do.v, Cooper, Dunkeld.James Duncanfon, Schoolmalter, Fordel.John Davidfon, Baker, Galaton.Thomas Dunn, Farmer, Fairburn-millAlexander Duncan, Weaver, Ferry-partoncraigs.William Dutch, Ferry-partoncraigs.Andrew Dryfdale, Merchant, Dunfermline.EWalter Eliott, Henderfon’s-knows.Robert Eafton, Fordel.John Edgar, Currier, Dublin.William Emerfon, Coulter’s-hill.Jacob Eliott, Barnetfiekl.Robert Forgan, Farmer, Lithons.Charles Forrefter, Cordiner, Edinburgh,James Fleeming, Weaver, Auchtermuchty.John Ferrier, Gardener, Eddlelton.VV illiam FarquhaHon, Baker, Ediiiour;_h.James Finih, Baker, Dublin.Thomas Fordayce, Edmortdhill.SUBSCRIBERS NAMES.GJames Gray, Wookomber, Linlithg o\vRobert Gordon, Vintner, Minnvhive.Walter Grieve, Tennant, Coulters-cleuo-h.W illiam Gardener, Stenhoule-muir °Mr John Grant, Earl of Elgin’s Fatter, Charlefton.Gilbert Gardener, Birk-hill.Peter Gardener, Inchdarbert.Honourable Charles Hope, Efq; Advocate.John Hay, Efq; of Leys.Revd James Hull, Bangor.Mr George Home, Coldinghame.Robert Hart, Innkeeper, Newhoufe.V. illiam Herknefs, i aylor, Langholm.James Hyilop, Fewer, Howndflow.W ilham Hall, Baker to the Duke of Athole.1 ho-nas Henderfon, Fordel.IM. James Johnflon ot Lonerigg.William Ja.nieion. Appingfoord.Patiick Jordan, Malon, Dublin.KMr John Knight, Dublin.Mr William Kirkland, Dublin.John Kinghorn, Weaver, Dunlhelt,James Kettle, Tennant, Fowlis.LMr Peter Lawfon, London.Revd. James Lifter, Auclitermuchty.W iliam L.fw, Panmu r houle.W'l'iain L ' d iy, C'-acbmin Ralth.Thomas LiIluit-, Weaver. Au. termuchty.John Lapfl Shoemaker, Pa kflook.William Lmvbe t, Malim. Damhall.John Lamg, A eave; Lit fheitJames Low, W eaver, N .whurgh, 2 Cop'es.John Latta, Fordel rThomas La:dlavv, Farmer. Falna/Ti.Catherine Lyell Glenfoot, Aberneathy.Mr George Lumlden, Merchant, Falkland.MAlexander Murray, Efq; Blaekbarrony.Col. Murray, Eiq ; of Criugalty.Revd. Boyle Moody, Newry, 5 Copies.Revd. William Moore, Moneymore.Jameb Millar, Ear ner, Cargen, ^ Copies.William M'Doual, Merchant, Diomore.Jol'ep'n Mi!n, Threedmaker, Aberdeen.William M‘Phearfon, Haddington.John M:Gill, Biewer, Kmrol’s.James Millar, Weaver, Dunflielt.Mr George Murdoch, Schoolmafter, Newm lns.William M'Corruick, Holywood.George Murray, Coldftream.John M'Kinnon, Hadduigton,Peter Martin, Biidge of Allan.George Millar, Smith, Auchtermuchty.Alexander M‘Lean, Mafon, Perth.Powlet Malcolm, Rols-houfe.John Marfhall, Weaver, Craigrothy.James Muir, Fordel.Jean Menzies, Aytone-houfe.John Mudie Carpenter, Bains-foord.Lawrence Muir, Newton.NJames Noble, Labourer, Dublin.OWalter O'iver, Tennant, Curnony.Thomas Oliphaut, London.Mr William Oliphant, Vintner, Kelfo.PMr David Peter, Merchant, Perth, 2 Copies,George Potts, Fewer of R gg-Peter Proudfoot, Mafon, Dunkeld.James Paton, Fordel.John Paxton, Ackley.OThomas Quanier, Lincolnfield.RMajor Rubertfon, Efq; Lawres.Capt Robertlbn, Efq; Edinburgh.Mr John Ritchie of Newfyminpton.Alexander Robertfon, Hatton-houfe.Andrew Rictianffon, Shoemaker, Colch'lrefrtr.James Rutherfoo-d, Weaver, Perth.Alexander Tlobertfon, Rols-houle. •Jame- Rankeiller, Sntlth Fordtl.John Rtithie, Farmer, Bale’anc^ahail.SD. Smyth, E'q ; of Met liven.Lady Stewart, of Grindtully.Mr Robert Stewart. Stewart hall.Revd. William Spratt, Rallydutf.Robert Swan. Pitiiadelpbia.(ieorge Archibald Sample, R( ffm Cattle*.John Swan, Mafon, Ktiknird.Mr Dom’d Stalker, Fewer, Grief.Mr John Scott, Moirpaui.Andrew Stalker, Weaver, Meckver.James Scott, Fcndel •Wilt lam Smith, Stenhoulemuir.TWilliam Tayler, Ilfq; London.Peter Taylor, Gardener, London.Peter Tavlet, Wtaier, Down.La wrence Tayler. Weaver. Perth.William Tay:cr, Cl'tk.vmc-re.Matibew Tay-ler, Cooper, Dublin.Thoiras 'Tayler, Tea dealer, London.Andrew Themfon, Mefli nyer. Strati aveu.Robert T-Fes. Smi'h, Rai h.Robert, i'homfbn, Wright. Clonfoords.James riiorburn, Mei'kicdarny.WAlexander Wedderburn. E'q ; Advocate, Birkbill.Mr John Walktr, Carronny.Mr Da 'id Walker, Caanonny.(jeorge W’ kie. Shoemaker, Auchtenr.tichtv.James W'Uo * Brewer. Ediubundi.Robe’ t Wallace,- Gardener Mutthley.John W’lkie. Farmer F >rdel.Thomas Williamfon, Waik-boat.YJohn Young, Fewer, Coldftream.