ADVICE to the YOUNGWI FH ANADVICE to the OLD.liy vVlLUYvI MILLER.TO t/fUCH IS PREFIXED,MEMOIRS of the LIFE of the AU FMOR.ISTIRLING:PRINTED FOR. THE AUTHOR,By C R ANDALL.l8t2.- . —.a. ,Memoirs of William Miller.AT DEANS TON WORKS.TO a refined and liberal mind, itmuft, and it has always given greatpleafure to obferve, the prngrefsand advancement of knowledge, andgood fenfe in the lower orders, whofeleifure is little, and whofe accefs toBooks is circurafcribedr; how muchgreater fatisfadlion muft it give, toobferve that progrefs manipefted inan age, generally reckoned unlit formental exertion.William Milter, the fubject of thepresent memoir, andauthor and com¬piler of the following trails and ex¬tracts, was born at Pendrich Mill, li-tuated at the bafe of the mountaincalled Dalmiet, near Stirling, on the9th February, 1S00, of creditable andhoneft patents, whole ftraitened cir-cumftances in the world did not en¬able them to give their fon fuch aa/education as they could have wifhed.He never had the benefit of a publicfchool, except one quarter of a year.For the lad four years he has beenemployed at Deanfton Works,,nearDoune. Pefthfhire During the fam-mer of 1812, he wrote the followingfracls and extradls in the eveningsfin which manner, by perftverahee,and conftant applicau 1 , chiefly ac¬quired that degree of learning whichenabled him to do lo) after the lab¬ours ot the day were finiihed: A con¬vincing proof that youth trained upearly to habits ot mduflry, even atpublic works feldom fail to rival andexcel in viitue, thole, who, poflefl'cdlot wealth and indeparidciSCr, too oft¬en iquauder iheir urne in die hauntsci idlenefs aud d? flip a. ion.The vein of genuine Ghriftian oie-;‘ty which nans through the whole isikxrtainly highly creditable to a boy;oidy eleven years of age:A Friend to Learningc©eanfloc, 28th Nov. 1812.The inhabitants of Nillns are deafby the noife cf the waters; fo theworld makes fuch a noife in men’sears, that they cannot hear the thingsof heaven.Sicily is fo full of fwect flowerst,hat dogs cannot hunt there ; andwhaf do all the fweet contents of thisworld, but make us lofe the fcent ofheaven.Be lure to take God, the Father, tobe your chief God, and higheft End.Be fure to take God, the Son, to beyour Prince and Haviour, Be lure youtake God, the Holy Ghoft, to be yourSau<5lifier, Teacher, Guide and Com¬forter. Be fure to take the word ofGod to be your rule in all your ac¬tions. Be lure to take the people ofGod to be your people in all condi-ctions. Do like wile devout and dedi¬cate to the Lord your whole felf—allI am, all l have, and all I can do;3 ^ Yth5« I do de^beratcly, uactrely, free¬ly. ami forever.Jiarly fobriety, etrlv kaowled^e ofreogioo, and early hadita of piety,are tbs moft probab e means of feeu-riu? tite iavor of G xi.As every iloiver hath its fvveet fa¬vour, fb every trood word carries meacin the mouth, and comfort m the per-! formmce of if.By p-ontiug fin in viomim colon"*Satan Knows that if he iiiouid prefeutfin in its own nature and dreis, thefoul would rathef flee from it thruyield to it; and theret'o-e he pi cleatsit to u:. plaited ami glided over witi*the name and file«r of virtue, that.wemay more eafiiy be ovcrr.on*e by i%and take m -re plealiire in c i.nniittingit. Priiie, ne prelents to rue fuul, un¬der the name of neataefi and clean-iiiiefs. Covetoufnels, to be but goo*bulb tech y. Druakeanefs, good fel-lowilap Rioting, under tae nationof liberahey ; and VYantoandb is atack of youth.i have many books that I cannot6fit down to read ; they are indeedgood and found ; but, like halfpence,th re goes a gr^at quantity to a littleamount, There are filver books, anda very few golden books; but I haveone book worth them all, called theBible ■ and this is a book of Banknotes.“ The Chriflian Sabbath,” laysMr. Hervcy, “ is an inefliraable pri¬vilege to the church of Ghfift ; it isa pledge of God’s riiftinguifhing lovejanti preparing us for our eveidahingSabbath.”The Sabbath-day was ancientlycalled the day of Light, alfotac queenof days ; the primitive church heldthis day in high veneration : it ’wasa great body ef their religion; forwhen the quedion was alked, ‘‘ Keep-eft thou the Sunbath ?” the an Tverwas, “ i am a Chriftian, and dare notomit the celebration of the Lord’sday.”1 hat great man, Judge Hale, thusfpeaks of the oabbath. I have, ftysbe, by long and found experience,fon r. that the due obfer^a^ce of thisda', and of the dudes of it, hath beenot lingular comfort and advantage tome. The ohfervance of this day hathever had joined to it bleding uponthe rett of my time, and the weekhhat hath been fo begun, hath been ableffiog, and prolperous to me ; andion the other fide, when I have beeninegligent of this day, the reft of theiweek has been urifuccefsful, and un¬happy to my own fecuiar employ-iments, fo that I cou- 1 ealiiy make anieftimate of my fuccefses the week fci-ilowing, by the manner of my pallingjpf this 'day : aad this I do not writelightly or inconlideratdy ; but upon?. iuog and found bofervatiou and ex-iperience.It was a cuftom of Mr GrimOnaw|)to leave his church while the pfalmsuwere finging, to fee if anv were ab¬sent from worthip, and idling theiridme in the churcn-yard, the itreec,or the ale-houfes \ and many of diofewhom he fo found, he would driveinto the church before him.He endeav ured likexvife to fup-prefs the generally prevailing cnftomin country places, during the fumrr.erof wall ing m the fidds, on a Lord’s.Day, between t he f rv’;<e«. or in theevening, in companies; he not onlybore his tedimonv agait ft it from thepulpit, I ut uent to the fields in perfbn,to detc<5t and reprove them.The fdlh wing is an inilance ofthis kind, which fbews both his careof his people and his treat afeenden-ty for them. There was a fpot atfeme diilance f?oai the village, totihicli many young people continu¬ed to rtf rc; a tf.ou ’h he had oftenwarned them in his preaching e gain ifthis cuftoir. ; at laft he diiguiied hi n-felf one tvtniiig, chat he might not beknown till he was rear enough to dii*cover who they were; h£ then fpol'tand charged them not to move. Hetook down ?.!1 their names with hupencil, and ordered them to attendhim on a day and hour which heap-.pointed. They ali Attended as pa '.el'ually as if they had been fervecl witha judges warrant. When they camehe ieci hem into a private room, whenafter he had formed them into a cir-cie, and commanded them to kneeldown, he kueded down in the auditof them, and prayed for diem v?khmuch earneftnefs for a ccrdidcrabletime, and concluded the interviewwhen he role up, by clofc and affect¬ing ledture. He never had occaftonto repeat this fiientiiy difeipline , heentirely broke the cullom -t and theplace has never been re for ted to onbunday evenings fro'U that time tothis prefent day.It is fdd of the pious Mr. Gnugf,i, that he forebore providing Suppers oni the eve before the Sabbath, that fer-vants might not be kept up too[ He would never fuTer any fervant to! tarry ac hoiiae to drefs any meat on.1 the Lord’s day, for any friends, whe¬ther they were mean or great, few cr; many.It is evident there never has been a-j ony abrcgption of the Spirit, meaning,or end of the lay?, as to the devotingthe feventh part of our time to God.What then will they have to anfvserfor, who fet apart this clay for travdl ■iiig, and worldly amufements: whstan awful account many prcftlfors\ahll h^ve to give, who vioVtc thisday, by working, polling their books,keeping their k'vanes ur necdlariiyat home to dreis dinners and thingswhich might have ealiiy have beenobtained on the preceding day. Letall Inch remember how incompatiblethis is with the law of Cod.Xou aic nc'w in the prime of yourage and vigour, and may be in favor,p; '! bufirgfs • b\U all this will leaveyou. and you will one day Dot Lei uil-deritand and rehih what J iay to you,then you will find that mere is moretruth, ccmtort, and pleafure in rekr-irg and turning your iieart rrem theworld to the good fpirit of God, andin reacing the Bible, than all thecourts and favor of Princes.k is fupooled chat the Scriptures11are read by the poor and illiterate on¬ly, and that there is nothing in themworthy the attention of the great, thewife, and the learned j but this is amiftake: It is their particular excellen¬cy that they are calculated for the be¬ne t of the mod ikgacious philofoph-er, as well as the mod humble peafant.There is no book in the world foadmirably adapted to the capacities ofall men: It is fo fubliine in its lan¬guage, fo noble in ns docfrine, yetplain in its precepts, and excellent in,its end; that the man mud be ignor¬ant, and deprived, indeed, who liveswithout reading it.Queen Fiizabcth fpent much of hertime in reading the bed writings ofher own, and former ages, yet die byno means negleded that bed of booksthe Bible ; for proof of which takeher own words. “ I walk,” fays die,“ many times in the pleaiant fields ofthe Holy Scriptures; where I pluckup the godliiome'herds of sentences.,By pruning, eat them ; by reading,digcdt them ; by muling and layingIt— : ^ :12them r.p at length in the high feat ofmen ory, by gathering them together;So that having talted their fWeetneft,I may lefs perceive the bitternefi. cfLil e.”Titnf, the Roman Emperor, r,throughout the whole courfe of hislife, railed 1;in;felt to account ererynight tor the fee^lions of the pait day ;ami as otten as he found he had Hip¬ped any ore day without doing good,fie entered upon his dary this memo¬rial, “1 have loft a day. T his rrayevery man ley who fuffers a day top.ds wuheu; doing iomething forGodfor his foul, or for his fellow-creature.i?B Italian Phiiofopher, lays Dr. John,ftoue, txprtiied itt f is n'.oito tt.at 1 iuie wasuis efiate; au oil ate,, iiiute a, which willpieciuce nothing without cultt^attcn. butwill alvays abundantly repay the laboytsof induftry, and fatisfy the molt extenfivecefres it no part of it be fuffered to bemailed bv reghgence, to be overrun viihaufcoits plants, or laid out tor fhew ratherjaan lor ufe.Plow little co we rtfledl on d e ufe andxah e cf <ime! it is in evti) bouj*^ n.v,uth*3 .but ia few peoples practice. Ho*’circu-n •fp- £t we ou^ht to b** in the ri^ht manage-tment of our time for God never gives us! a'O moments together ; he tdves us onlythe fecond as he takes awar tire firit andikteps the third in tit-: hands, leadng us inan abiolute uncenainty, wntther he wiiti]pive it us, or not lime, is precious, iite islihort; and conf queutiy not a ungie mo-initnt Ihould i e ioit.Arciibtdiop Leighton wns a rnoft ex^mp-f!?ry c.',.ifact,r. Biihop Burnet lavs he hs(i•t.-e gre-tdt elevation 01 ioui, the targetcOi. p.is ot Know ledge, the molt monitiedand l.eavemy difpotiiion that i ev.r \e: lawin rrertai. He ha.i tie gitatett puts, asIweli as virtue, u:th the inuit perted humi-tjiity, iliat t ever ui* iuu.sn ; and had a iub-Uine iiraiti in preaching.. with fo grave agtliuie. and iuen a rnaie’.ty botnet thougutiji language and pronuticiatton, mat l «•-«vc. once law a wandering eye whe e «.eprteCiicu j and t have letu w itoie i)ae*'iibht*toiieu ti.cii ut tea:* bfctovc him: ard ot whom1 can lay wuh gic .t rimh that in a Iree o<litqutiu couvutaioo with him tor two Cet'^eiiiy years, 1 never knew him lay an idleword, or a werd that had not a airett ten¬dency to cdiiicaiion j and 1 never once !aw*4bin? in 8«y other fcn.per but that 1 v^ifhecto he in the Igfr rocreent of my life.i'or fon-e. \ears btloTe Tvlr. Hervey’ft’ft-tii he vifiied very few of the principalperfcns in his neighbourhood. Being onc^aflied why he ib ieldom went to fee theneighbouring; gentlemen, who yet fliewedhm) all peffible efteem and refpedt; he an-fvered, ‘ I can hardly name a poli e familywhere the converiation ever turns upon thethings of God. bhear much fiothery, andworloly chit char^ but not a word of Chiiftand i am determined not to vifit *hofe com¬panies where there is not room for my mal-ter as well as myteif.Such was Mr Hervey’s ftrick piety, thathe iufttxcd no moment to go unimproved.When re was calied down ;o tea he uied tobring his Hebrew Bible, or Greek Feltam-ent with him ; and would either Ipeak-uponone virfo, or upon feveral veries, as occa-fton offered. This, favs Mr Koffiaine, wasgeneraily on in proving feafons. The gloryol God is very -feidom pernatted at thetea table j hut at Mr Kemy's drinking tea,it was like being at an ordinance, tor it wasla:odb(ied by the word ct God and prayer.secretary Waifingham, an em inent cour¬tier and itatefruan, in Queen Elizabeth'stime, in his old age, retired into privacy, inI5 .^he coantry. Some oJ his former gay com¬panions came to fee him, and told him. hewas melancholy. No, faid he. I am not me¬lancholy I am ferious ; and it is fir 1 fhouMD& fo. Ah ! my friends, while we laugfc, allj things are ferious ; God is ferious wlio ex-“rcife'h pafiehce towards us; the Holy■ Giioft is ierious in driving again ft the ob«iltiuacy of our hearts ; the holy scriptures(bring to our e«rs the moft ferious things in*the yvcrld; the holy Sacrament rcprefentst: e mcft ferious and awtul matters; tnewhole creation is ferious in Serving God ;and as all that are in heaven and hell areferious how then can w.e be gay.He gives the following plain, but fuitahieadvice to his Son., on this head, it maynot b' a mi is for you to have beaus, aheap of miirittliirib.es, and a he.-p of incu¬rables f every now and then you will meetwith lomething or other thgt may prettymuch diftrefs your.thoughts: but the Siort-rft * ay with .the vexatipr._s wiil be to tjua wt.heap they belong .to, and beno more diftrefl'ed about diem.I endetvour to wail?, through t.h.e worldas a piiyliciati goes through Bedlam ; thepatients make much i.oiic, pefter him withimpertinence, and hinders him in hi. bufi-1t-cfs ; but he does tne beft he can, and fqgets through.[ feci like a rr.an ^’ho has no money inMs pocket, tut is allov.ed to draw for allhe v>ants upon ore irfinrdy rich; I aaithcre.ore, at once bcth a beggar ana a richman.Luther being one time in forre wants, ithappened that a good fum ot mcrey wasunexpedledly font him by a nobleman ofGermany , at-w hich being fomething ama-z d. he faid, I ferr that God will give memy reward here, but I proteil I will not befo fatisfied.Ir is a precious truth, never to Ire forgot¬ten that Duties ate efteemed not by their?tts, hut by their rnds. the end moves todoing; keep thyfeif witrdn compals, andhave an e always to the end of thy life andaddons—Vhe more i have been amongvein men l returned home ieisa man than iw as before.Mr Greenham* when called before theBilhop of idy to be m^dvonee concerr.inghis non conformity, he gave a nobie proofof his prudeme and boidnefs. ihe Biftoprtprdcntii.g unto him the gn at fchi^ru thatreigned in the church, aintd, Where thebjame was to be cait ? whither upon thoiewho conformed fo the church of Engiaud*■ -17i cr upon thofe who did not ? Greonhai» in-• ftantly replied, that the bla ni Tti^ht lie m> either hde, or it murht lie on neither; for,: added he, if both lived and re(pe£tcd each> other as they ou^ht, they would cheertaily■ pertorn ail the duties o* f Kial k naae's. Scfo maintain mufual love and harmony j nvthis conduit the blime wou d tail on no; e> ofthe partes; baton the rontrarv, whatev¬er parry neglects the mutual odxc-s ot kin ?-nets and chaiiry, that pirrv reads thechurch- and fcrnfm «s chare^abie unor thatpar tv only, Che bishop was i'o pieiied withthi ren'y, that he dilsn.ilfecl him in peace.Many have puzz ed the nf-i . e-. auout the• origin of evil; I. ohferv; there is c-i', atvlfh-t there >s a n-ay to elcaps it; and wuai htb 1 begin and end.Advice to the Old.I exhort therefore, that prayers and giv-ing of thanks be made for all men, for allthat are in authority, that we may lead aquiet and and peaceable life, in all godli-nefs and honefiy; for this is good and ac¬ceptable in the fight o!- God, oar Saviour.And now, if thou pleafell, read the fol¬lowing work, and receive his counfel from>18rffe. Firfe, thou hvjft know that every thancannot be e'x '.enent. yet may be nfe^ul. Ahiron key may -.in’ock tne fl'oor of a goldefitreafu’-e ; yea iron can do fjif>e rhirtgs thatgold cannot do.Sece'hdlV. Remember it is no. haftyVdid-irt^j'but ferionllV meditating upon holy a-dheavenly treo-s, that makes them provefv. e’et and profitable fo He foul; it is not thebees tcucidng of the flowers that gathershoney ; but her a-biding for a time uponthem and drawing out the Fweet; it is notlie that reads in oft but he that meditatesmofltthat will prove the chciceft, fweeteft,wiielt and itrongefl; Chriltiah,bird, I believe that there is a God ; anincomp'rehenfib 1 e perfed being, a Spiritinfinite, eternal, and unchangeable in hisbeing, wifdom, power, holinefs, juflice, andtruth ; having his being of himtejf, and gi¬ving being to ail thing’s.adly, i believe, that the living and trueGoa is but one ; and that in the ufoty ofthe Godhead th .re is a I rini y of peribns,Father, Son, and bloiy Ghoft j and thattheie three are but one God' the fame iafubllance,.equal in power and glory, t'hisis the revealed my fiery, which i do believe,but cannot comprehend.3 by, 1 believe that this God, who was.*9 . .God fro* all eternity did in tdie beginningiof time, create, or m-ibe out o- ’othing»r 'eworld, the heaven, and ear.a and ill vi’bleand invifible ; and this he di 1 -iy the .voidof his eternal power in the f.nce of fix daysand all very ;ood \nd that rhefa ire Gaddoth, hv the fa ne p wer -u j aokl and maiti-t ;’n the creatures in that bei -s. which he atfi: it gave the n 8y hi n ail things faofm jfrom t> e higheft angel to the -ifane't worniAro that- this God in the right o< creation,and prefervition t rhe (upreine abfolute.Sovereign and Rector of th's world rulingand governing all his creatu es, and all tneiradVofis, according to the wife, holy, and oternal counfel of his own will, to the praifeand glory of his own name.4th.iy, t believe that God, as the gover¬nor or the world, hath given a law to hisrational creatures; according co which theyare to walk, in order to their glorifying himfluid that to the prefent Tons of men theferiptures of the Old and New Ted amentsare given, i>s the onlv rule to direct thembotu in fait;: and practice, that this book,of Scr pturs was given by infptr <tion ofiGod ; no!y men fpeaking ?; d wri.ing astr.ey were moved by the Holy Ghoit Andthat this is the foundation of ait revealed re-29lipion, an<? a perfect lutf'cient rule of direc¬tion ro tlse c ildren of n en.5thly, l be ieve that God made man op-in hs own image con lifting in kncw-ledge, r?- tt cdnefs. folinefs wicn domini¬on over the ore 'tures; and that he made acovenant of v>C"ks with him, prorriftng Uteupon crndi'h n of a perfect and perpetuale ; tht- atening death upon oifooe-di-.tice, and giving him a command or trift,nor to eat of the tree of the knov.ie ge ofgood and evil upon pain of dfatti.f)rh!y ( beneve that M n be ng left tothe f»eedoim of hir o‘*/n vsiil. at the inftiga-ti m v>f ihe devil, f nre j Gnd, in ea-lin? (fie forbiioen fruit and to fed from tagdUite oi heiinefs and hmpinefs. aj d he. he-,irg a comton perfon, ad fis pefterity fellwith him. into an e late of tin anti mifery.d’nrt ail the ions of men are born chib renof diicbedtence. waB-.in.T ortgina righteeuf*neft, and under corruption ot the v/ftote na¬ture 111vet- to the flrfh, the work!, and de-vj , and c >n quent-v children of wratn. ob-in xiovk D tre juliice of Gnd, and the con-de Tir aucn of the hw ; and that no crea¬ture is abie to deliver mem on? of this coa*dhtoa l int God, having from all eternity,of his n e.e good p'eafnre, eietlei «» reiu-n.mt of mankind to everlaiting are, did, saaiinfinite wildom, find ^uf a way to fave anddeliver the n oui; of ths finful and miferablet-ftate aud to bring tne'n into an eftate offalvation ; and tliat was by giving his onlybegotten 80 i to be their Rcdee.ner j who,t eing God, and one with the Father> accor¬ding to the determinate counfel of God,did, in the fulnefs of time, take upon himcur nature, a true body and a reafonableifouh and became man, being conceived bythe Holy Ghoft, born of the Virgin Mary,■and called Jefus.ythly, I believe that this Jefus was thetrue Mcffiah. promi.fed to, and expefted bytha patriarchs, under the old TeftamenfiThat he lived a holy and finlefs life, andfulfilled ail righteoulnefs, being made underthe law, that he underwent the miferies forfin, a curled death upon the crols therebyfatisfyiag divine jultice for the fins ot men,and fo reconciling us to God, and bringingin an everlafting righteoufneL. That hewas buried, and that, having conquereddeath, he rofe again the third day ; aad ha¬ving commiflioned his apoftles and minift-*r$ to preach the gofpel to ail the world, heafcended into heaven, where he is. and con*,tinues to be God and man, our prevailinginterceffor with the Father, and the glori¬ous head over all things to tbs Church, in22ail this, giorioufly executing the three grea';offices of Prophet Priefl and King.Sthly, I believe that in Jesus Chrisf there is rnew Covenant of Grace, made and published ixthe Gospel, tlie tenor of which is, that all thosewho, in t c sight and sense of their lost and un-done condition by nature, come to Jesus Christ'and truly repent of all their sins, and heartily re,nounce the devil, the world, and the flesh, ancall their own'righteousness in point of justifica¬tion, and, by a lively faith, cordially resign them¬selves to Jesus Christ, as their PrinCe and Savi¬our, covenanting to be his humble servant, thotnot in all manner of Gospel obedience : shallhave all their sins pardoned, their peace made,their persons justified, their natures sanctified &their souls and bodies eternally saved.Sthly, I believe that the Holy Spirit doth effec¬tually apply the redemption purchased by Christ,to all the Elect by working in them that which isrequired of them, convincing them of sin, en-light’ning their minds with the knowledge ofChrist, renewing their wills, and not only per¬suading tl-.em but powerfully enabling them toembrace Jesus Christ as he is freely offered inthe Gospel : and that the spirit same conti¬nues to dwell in them and to work all their worksin them •, weakening their corruptions, strength¬ening their graces, guiding their way, comfortingtheir souls, witnessing their adoption, enablingthem more and more to die unto sin and live un¬to righteousness, and keeping them faithful and*tedfastly unto the end.lOthly, I believe that all true believers makeup one invisible sanctified church, which is themystical body of Jesus Christ, receiving vital in¬fluence from him as from their-head and havingcommunion in the same spirit of faith and love.And that ail those who by Baptism outwardlyprofess faith in Christ, as the true Messiah, makeup the universal visible church of Christ on earth,of which Jesus Christ is tlie-only ruling head,.and as such, hath instituted ordinances for Wor-■hip and discipline, which are to be observed andKept pure in particular churches, and hath ap-sointed the standing office of a Gospel Ministry,. or the church; and hiith promised to be withi)them always to the end of the world.llthly, I believe that God hath appointed a4ay in which he v.dll judge the world in righte¬ousness, by that man whom he hath ordained,! vho will raise the bodies of all men from the1 ;rave and judge them all according to their works,lending the Wicked, Impenitent, and Unbeliev-, r, into everlasting punishment, and receiving thej ightepus into life eternal, to be together for e-i er with the Lord. And that then he shall de¬liver up the kingdom to God even the Father,'jnat God may be in all to eternity : and that thisK the foundation of all revealed religion and a per-tm sufficient rule of direction to the children ofinen.. And again, I am to take Christ for my pro-jhet, to be taught by him what is tmy duty ; andi this case I desire to learn of him as the on-f master, what is the will of God, and renoun-jing my own wisdom, which I reckon but weak¬ness and folly, I know and am persuaded, that Iin r lost creature, that justice must be satisfied,24tJvat I not able to satisfy it, nor no creaturefor one, that Christ is able, and his death and suf¬ferings sufficient satisfaction : on this I throw mysoul with its full weight; my duties I believe thebest of them would sink me to the lowest pit.and must needs be washed in that precious bloodcan have no acceptance with God but throng!hi« intercession, I cm have nothing to do witlGod out of Christ nor to converse with but on¬ly through Christ, I am sensible that I have no¬thing to commend me to Christ that he may takfmy cause in hand, if he should damn me, heshould do me no wrong, but the cord of love i;let out, even the covenant in his blood, I accepof it, and at his command lay hold o i it and ven¬ture : this is faith in spite of devils, and my hearis pleased with the glorious device of man’s sal¬vation through Christ, carrying all the praise trfree grace and leaving nothing of it to the crea¬ture.My soul is content of him for my king, amthough I cannot be free of sin, God himselknows he would be welcome to make havoc omy lusts and to make me holy; I know no histhat I would not be content to part with my wilbound hand and foot I desire to lay at his feet*»d though it will strive whether I will or notJ believe whatever God does to me is best donsLowliness of mind is »ot a flower that growin the field of nature, but is planted by the finger of God in a renewed heart and learned othe lowly Jesus.FINIS,