THEVINE SHEPHERD:*, The Good Miniver’s Care over theL O C 7 Ktk-ti >'0 r ,. Jtnu (TnUus CHRIST.: i in a moil excellent SERMON upon Ember-; preachel before the Clergy and UniverfitJ'i ford, in Chrift Church, in the faid City.rDAVID JONES, M A.Ezek, xliv. <5. 8.| \lh the Lord God to the rebellious Hsufc of I frail:f fujfice you of all tour abominations : ye have nuthe Charge of mine holy things ; but ye have f*7 of my charge in rtiy $ anti uary.for yeurJHvit,STIRLING:’aiHTED AND SoLd «T C. RaHDA><E.i 8a 5.4 Nfv^V\{ pTj iilifTHE.VINE SHEPHERD, Ssf,,Matt. tx. g(j, 37, 38.jf,i Jefus faw the Multitudes, ht ‘was rtfcved with[i iompajfwn on teem, becaufe they fainted, and werealtered jihroad, as Sheep bavin* no Shepherd. Theni ji/b he unto bis Difeipks, the Hnrvefi indy is pienteous\ut the Labourers are few. Pray ye therefore the.Lord of the Harveji, that he will fendforth LabourersVnlo his HaneeftEX L' Lord's Dr.j is Ordination ddy, t^atday upon which the learned and religiousMen are to be OrdiinedJ Prieits and Dea¬cons ; and n. xt tfeelt is Ember week ; thatiek which is einphatica ly Called a tfreek of Embdt*iAihes- For ihde two word* do only fsgmfy oho3. the fame thingAnd the Reafdh why this week is thus called, istftiaCl lurch lias commanded us to fill ami pray tipbnzt dry* in this we.k, ‘ That God wotild be pleaftdgive us fuch Mmiltere, as ire willing and able, bolhtheir lives and doftrine, to let forth his Glory, andJet forward the falvation 6f a1! men’ And thefe threeIlys have been heretofore fo iltnitly kept .by holy1 and women, that they cbve>el them hives withi kefoth and Allies, afid eat nbihihg till niglit. n®rM neither, fave only 1 fcs&e baked under the em-s ; which was therefore c tiled Ember Bread. Andm this ftrittnefs and leve.ity which ifras formerlyd updn the three faftimg Day* in thi* wfek, theole week came to be called Ember Week."f ' 4 5And tVe reafon r.f all this P 'Aricfs and feverity £tthis occafion is th'?, when men do fad from inthey acknowledge themfelves to be unworthy oflead crumb of that vre-'t tl :-y fad from A nd wthey do, in the time of their fading, cover themftwith fackcloth, they acknowledge, that to be*better than they defei vc. Tht y caH to mind that \clothing is only the efF.-dt of their r.ahcdnefs ; and )their nalcednefs is only the effefi rtf their fin : t ftherefore they are refolved not to be proud of tl]clothes, which ought to hn'r.Lie them with*thoiigl:ts of their frd original, anti to put th.mind of thofe tatter-d rags they ar • n ,-.y clothed >nftcsd of their glorious robe of righteoufuefs. wj !hey once had in paradife. Wiien men doembers, and fprmhle afite« upon their heads, t'publicly tell God, that their fins are fo many, an!great, that they deferve opthinr; but death ; noth,but to have thefe dreadful w ds, in the officethe burial of the dead founding in their ears, ‘ 1to earth, a’hes to alhes, dui to daft. And wsm«n do thus openly declare their inward forof heart, by thefe, and the hke outward figns ofing and mortification, they rrightilyimove both ‘and man to Tnye mercy upon them. For. wnemServants of Een-hadad, King of Syria, girded fcloth on their loins and put roprs on their heads,prefented themfelves to A hat> k: g of Tfrael, inbumble and mjfc -able cmiditi n he could not chufcbave pity irpon hin, though God had appointed•o utter deftrufiion, r.nd tho’ he an 1 his People wetfofe their lives fromfaving him and Ms people from dt |3 Kings xx. 32 42, Yea and that very fame Acky humbling birr,felt and lifting m f^ck-cloth ands !moved God to take avyiy from h’m. one of the greljtemporal judgments that ever w s threatened ag;[ja mortal man, I Kings xxi, ij and aifo th« follot(jwerfes to the end of the clu.pt r.And here now, let no proud (inner, that defpthe minifter of Cod’s word, imagine that the d»J. —Ircted for the Ordination of priefU and deacons, islof fo great concern to the nation, that it ought tokept with fo much ftri&nefs and folemnity ; Leti 'jracelefs perfon think fo fcomfully of Ember-weekI j Ordination day ; for the Apoftles thought them^i ie* bound to ordain no elders in any church, with-i! the foiemnity of a faft, Afts xi *3. And Chrifttl' .felf, before he entered upon bis miniftei ial office,!ed forty days Jand forty nights, Matt. iv. 2. (7.! d if fading, and fo long failing, was necclfary to fit11 prepare Cluift fisr the miniitry, how much more; jfTary is it to fit #nd prepare us for it, who are1 hitely fhort or hisf divine perfe&ions.1 \nd tJius I have (hewn you what is meant by Ordi-1 lion day, and what is meant by Ember week ; and' ;t you may keep them as they ought to he k-.pt, I: e purpofely pitciiedupon thefe v oi ds, which are thejrjpel for the ordination of prietls, a .being moil properIf this ’great occafion a>.d our moft ferious medit&tioaon it. < When Jefus faw the multitudes, he waslived with compafiion on them, btea fe they feinted'd were flattered abroad, as (lieep ha ing no ihepherd.j|eu f.ith he ;:nto Jhis diferp'e , the harvetl truly isiiimteous, but the labourers are lew : pray ye there-lie the Lord of the her veil, trial he will fend forth ta*Juiers into his harveft.In which words there are feveral doftrines : but Itin at prefect only infill upon this one :Though there be a great many mimilers in a cky orflint y, yet the common people may be ready to faint,lltl to p'.rr.E for want of knowledge ; for want of p'ainIfcttionate, practical and feripture preachings yea, andtir cafe may be fo defperately bad, that nothing but airmany of poor filly fheen, fcattered abioad without aitphei d, can poflihlyreprefent their deplorable condition,l And the reafons which prove this dodlrine, areFirft, There were a great many feribes, pharifees,d lawyers in our Saviour’s time} for he denouncedare woes, and great curfes agaiaft them, than a-1ai! otker, bec^fc they were ftvore ajiiaft hi:and his Gofpel, than all othere were* Matt xxiii qur•through the Chapter And yet, notwithilandidgthewere fo many miniftera, and Doftors, and Preacheof the Lay at that time, the text tells us. The &< iourert are few. F :w of them would labour in t!Harrell, and Teed the Flock of the Lord; and therefuthe multitude fainted ; or as the margin ot the Bibhas it, they were tired, by going fo far to hear anwakening preacher, and they law down for wearinelAnd they were fcattered abroad, as Sheep having tShepherd. And what was their Cafe then, may, for apthing we know, be the cafe of federal thoufands anmillions at this prefent time ? ‘ For the thing that habeen, it is that which (hall be ; and that which is doiis that which fliall be done: And there is no new thicunder the fun*. Eccl- i. 9.Secondly, The Scripture tells us of fome, who ougito be teachers, but in truth, have need to be t^ugilthemfelves the very firft principles .->f the Oracles of GelHeb. v. it. They fet up for Preachers, before thtwell underlined their Catechifm : That form of Bo|trine, that form of found words, and that formknowledge and truth, which they ought to be firft i|flrufted in. For, fays the Prophet, Ifa. Ivi* His Watchmen and his Shepherds are blind ; theyaiall ignorant; they are all dumb dogs; they cannot barthey cannot underlland And il poor ignorant peophave fuch an ignorant man for their Minifter, mull tinSt, without a miracle, neceffarily perifh for want ,nowlcdge ? For how can the blind lead the blincOr how can the dumb fpeak to the deaf ? Or how cthe ignorant guide teach the people knowledge ?Thirdly, The Scripture tells us of others, who, thithey ?re learned enough, and able enough to premto their people, yet they are not willing enough to •it They art idle and lazy ; ‘ they put their candle uider ■ bulhel; they hide their talent in a napkin ;they keep their learning to themfelves, as a ftisrifer docs his gold, and no man is ever the beta it.; anitinpbetti{ 1 >F*r k. Totfhy* tfec Prophet* I fa. W. to. ‘ They flrep,rthey He down, they love to (lumber ' And this cfcarac*Iter did not only belong to foihe few of them ; for it i*there faid, they All did fo ; that is* the Generality an#the greatcft part of ttiem did fo. And if poor igno- -rant people have futh an idle man for their miniftcr*,i rauft they not, without a miracle, neceffarily ptrilh forwant of kmMledge ? For what matter is it, whethera man tlarve for want of money to buv him meat,or for want of a heart to ufe his money for lits necef-fary fupport ? And what matter is it, whether ai imaa’s guide be ignorant and canno*, or whether he belearned and will not (hew him the way to heaven.Fourthly, The Scripture tells us of ethers, who,tho’ they are neither ignorant nor idle, but very learn-ed, and very lab >rions: yet they are cove'ous and volup-! tiMus They ufe nei her th- ir learning nor their la¬in hour in preaching to their people, but in feekirig- whatIjlfhey have, and in getting away from them. Theyjjjl f ek not them but theirs ; not tlieir iouis blit theirp'riches. Their whole bulinefs is Only, ‘to devour wi¬ll! dows houfes, and to turn the houfe or Cilod into a denli of thieves.’ For, fays the Prophet, Ifa ivi. 11. They arejj greedy dog», which can never have enough ; they alllook to their oven way, every one for hk gain from hisquarter,’ And that you rray know, what they do witha 1 that they thus covetoufly ferape together, their vo-luptuoufnefs follows in the next words,; beftow it allupon their l.u'ts, upon their filthy plcafure : For it isthere fa.d to them, ver i z ‘ Cbine ye, fay they, I willfetch wine, and we will fill ouffelves with ftrong drink,and to-morrow (hall be as this day, and much more a-hundant ’ And that you may not think that this oneProphet only mfct with bad mimfters, bearr what is writ¬ten Ezek. xXxiv 2. 3 4. ‘Woe be to the Shepherds ofJfrael, that feed themfelvea, and eat the fat, and clothethem with the wod!, and kill -hem that are fed*; hutfeed not the dock, but rule them withforce and cruelty.Ahd that yon may not think that this was only theCharadter of feme few of them, it is there added1ver. j1. i. There DfW ao fliepherd ? but all the fheep, andall the flocks, were fcattered upon !tite all face of theearth : and none, mark it, not one, did fearch or fcekafter them. And therefore this dreadful curfe is de¬nounced agaipft them, Zech. ai 17. Woe to the idleihepherd. That is, that man who pretends to be afiiepheid, bnt is no.mere a fhepherd than an ido1, whichpretends to be Clod, b'g God. Woe to the idle fiiep*hered, that leaveth the flock to the care ol aa hireling; :The f^ord fl'a'l be.upon his inn and his upon ri^hteye; his arm lhali be clean dried up, and his right eyefl’.all be utterly da*itei<ed. Mail, this as lone: cs yo i live,]a minifter that does not look after his pardh in Jtis owr !», perfon, but leav^.s it to tfie care of a hireling, is not real*!*iy a minifter but he i an ido'. For. he has a meutfelindeed, but lie fpe.sk s not a A’ord i 1 feaion t) the fouls!of hi« people ; he has eyes, but he fees not their ftraitsand neceffnits, lie has ears but he hears not their groans,2nd complaints for bread, and he . his-feet, but i,ewalks not to viflt them upon their flek or death* 1beds: and his pumfnntrnt for this is very fevere 1and terrible. For the fv.otd. friall be upon his arm arc !upon his right eye: his arm 'hall be clean dried ui),and his right eye utterly darkened. And when ailithis is come upom the'-, what, O whst wid tlrou b«, the better for all that th u haft gotten by the plu¬ralities and Don-rtfitltpce ? What, O what will {ftymoney then avail -thee, when thpu' anu it will p-rila|jbo:h together ? And if poor ignorant people havejjiuch a covetous and voluptuous rmn for Uteir nHn:fter*jJtpuft they rot, without a rr ira-'le, nect ffarily periili 1for want of knowledge? For Low can a covitou?|man, whole god is his gold, preach?8gairft ihe love |of money, which is the root of all evil ? 0. how cara voluptuous man. whofe god is his belly, p-each fonfailing, felf denial, and mortification. ? Or if be coes4yet, how cau any or e that bears him believe a worJof what he fays, when thrt insy be juftly faid to hin-,which was unjuftly faid t<> Molts, Numb. xvi. 14 Wii,cthou put out the eyes ot thefe men; by preaching that to( 9 . )fticm, wLic'u Uiou tlijicif wii; net prac^cj ; sviu fljrpjtiiii.ig heavy burdens, anci{grievous to be hern, aad■laying them on their ihov.tld.rs, but thovr thylch wiitmove them wi‘h one oi thy lingers. Mutt x.'.m.'g.I’l.thiy, Tlie Scripture te'ia of others, who thoughthey are neither ignorant uor iu.tf, n .r Covetous, uor..oioptuous ; yet, they are proud, they love the prude often, more than th praiie of God ; they love to be tal*led Rabbi, they rove the uppcrmo‘1 rooms ,;t t.ulU, i.i4dthe clati icric^ m iya gogutSf cind greetings in tne■ nttrketSs They icurn iWu a ptor place as Nazararh>f Galilee ; they mud needs be at Jei-afalero, and pi eaeht court, where they nay be fceii of men. Theyihink it below them to feed God’s lambs, to caUcuifelittle children, to conceal tin it kan.ing, an 1 to fpeakplain, that tiie moil ignorant intu and vV /tnen maf-ndem uid and profit by tuon They tfiinkthatpreadt*g the law, winch is to coimv c« nieu ul uu, and humble:icm for . i., can never work upon gentlemeiv, wliwjp.: only to be wrought by caller and gentiler methods.j|jt net is, in plain tong’iih by f Gt'-iOL.fi S nd flatteringIp oris. They think that poaching of e’eitvon, voaa-|on, jostijicaupn, adoption atid Lnciiflcation, is no-fuing clfe but f imicii fpiritual cant. And indeed,iney think no preaching is good for any thing, butjfhat v/hicii is really good for nothing : Ti^t which isH igh and lofty, quaint and witty, fcholastic or contro-jfcriial, anovc the reach of ordinary capacities. And{tuerefeire oai ’ Sav. our makes it 9a great miracle, aud aaKits in a figa of the ; rue MdBiafi, that the poor had thejfofpel preached unto them, as that the blind faw, theifcame walked the deaf heard, the lepers were cleanf-and the dead were rcvfid up from death to life,licit, xi 5. And if poor ignorant people f»chproud minister, must they not, without a miracle,vcefLnly perilh tor want of knowledge ? For, if anfeher (hies always fh.'rot above the mark, can he erert it ? And if a mir.wtcc cues always preach aboveae capacity of his bearers, can he ever teach them -1 hawledge'? lj.it iioi all one, zi it h; had fpok^ to, ' ( ro )t. em m an unJrnown tongue, and were altogether abarbarian unto them ?Sixthly, 1 he Scripture tells us of others, who tho’they are neither ignorant, nor cove ton*, nor volup¬tuous, nor pr ud, yet they are deceitful; ‘ ther h nd’eto wo.d of God dece:t*u ly’: 1 hey deceive God's peo.pie, by preaching that to them for God's Word, which isnof really his, out the-rown ; they preach to them theznticinp; words of men’s wifdorn, inhead of tlie jfnicsremilii. <?f t ve word ; the fhew them the form, and notthe pi)'*’cr of gcdiinefs, they feed them with ceremo¬nies and ihadows, inftead offubftantial and fundamentalt: utr,h ; 1 hey puff them up with fcience, fid fly fo cal¬led, inffead of t*e fimplicity of the gofpel ; they fpoil,,them through Philofophy and vain deceit, after thetradition nr men, after the Rudiments of the world, and^Loot after Chrjft; they teac them for doArin s tr e ona- ifmandnien .s. f men ; yea, they teach them the very doc-tm, s O' <! v.i!s* tv'ait >:v 5, C mpar-d with Col f ii.2 and t T im iv 1, And by this meiiis, all true gof¬pel preach’ag s in many places n uch neglected; andin feme places i is almotf wholiv ioff. And if poorignorant people hay; fiu-b a deceitful handler and cor¬rupter 01. God's won! f- r their miniifer, muff they not,without a miracle, luc fforfiy peri/h h r want of know¬ledge ; I'.or how can a m m pofStdy fubfi!:, if he hasonly a ftoue for hycad, a fcorp on for an egg- and a :i<up ofpoifon for, the blood of the grape iSeventhly, The Scripture tells us of others; vhotho’jjthyy arc neither ivnerant, nor idle, nor covetous,  1IV^hiptuous, nar proud, nor ieceitnil, yet they arc<^pr|k than all thele For, fays our Saviour, Matt, xxiiI.3, Woe unto you Scribes and Pharifees, Hypocrites«ifor ye (hut up the kingdom of- Heaven agshift men. Y$ fneither go into it yourftives, neither fufftr yfe th'efe thataje entering to gjo in. And then it follows, ver. 5. Yffifcompafs fea and,land, to make one Profelyte, and whohe ismade ye make him two-fold more the; Child of hi-than yorrfelvts They would neither be go.,d to thenfekres. nor fuffer others to be fo. They v/ould'netthr( !* ) . ,n^acli themfc’ves, nor fufFer Clmft and his Apoftle*0 preach to the people, that were ready to perifh for/ant of a plain fearching Preacher. They are likeithofe two prieftr, Hophni and Ph inch at, who wouldI' either be chafte themfelves, nor fuffer others to bea, but lav with the women diat aflembled at the doorS f the Tabernacle of the Congregation,, I Sam. ii. 22.1 ’hey were like Ahab and Zedekiab, thofe two Other! iViells, who would neither be chafte themfelves, nort |iffer others to be fo, but were roaftcd in the fire byl ne king of Babylon, for committing adultery with theireighbour’s wives, Jerem xxix. 22. 33. And they wereike thofe other ungodly priefts and people of the Jevt%’no perfecuted St. Paul, and forbid him to preach toae Gentiles that they might be faved to fill up theiras alway. For the wrath of G. d is come upon thetnthe uttermoll, 1 Tiief. ii 5,16 Mark this all of youjii long as vou live ; if a miniiler rdiuies to preach him-Jc, and foroids others to preach, it is a certain figrt,j.nat he is come to the height of wickednefs, and has fiUjjiid up the full meafure of all his fins, and the wrath of1 iod is come upon him to the uttermoft. And yet there!i-ere not only feme few of the Clergy that were then■ms notorioufly wicked for our Saviour lays ft to thernarge of all the Scribes and Pharifees, and Preachers|| the law in lus time And they all were fo far fromfaying that charge, that they gloried and boafted inFor fay they they to the officers, that would not|p fo bad as they would have them be, by apprehendingjjhiiit, and bringing him bound to them, ‘ Are ye alljifceived; Have any of the rulers of the Pharifees be-nrved on him ? But this people who knoweth not thej w are curfed,’ John vii. 47,48,49. And if poor ig.Ijirant people have fuch men as thefe for their minifterg,i j J'A they not, wit hout amirade, neceifariiy perilhfor want1 knowledge? For how can the polfibly learn any truei d faving knowledge, when their Minifters curfe them■ r believing on Chnil, ar.d damn them to the pit ofjit, for refufmg to be as bad as tliey would make them?j jhat is, two-fold more the children of hell than th-tm-ve«.‘( *1 )And thu? I i . ve pi v/ved cut out of Go d’s c.w - r/ortfiwithout any addition et iry^cwn hand ; by plain ar.texprefs textf of Scnpture,tfcat, Though tin rtfce a gre|many miniicrs in s city or countr., ytt the comrrotpeople may be ready to faint, and t per ah Pi \vKnowledge ; /or want ’of plain, ?ff. ftionaie pr. cand fciipture-preaching: yea, am] their cafe tr y hidefperately bad, that nothing bu* a enryary of pfilly fheep fcattered ab 'ead without a fh pheid, can pfibly reprefent their deplorable’cordit cn. AndtliJis t!i.? eioftrine with its prool The life of it is this r. .Firft, The ticly Ghoii has caufed the faun's of G dtain*, en. to be writti n in fi lature : Andib> r< f< •, wthat art the preacher; of God’s word, aie be in r tconfer nee to preach agaipit thefe nriniilerial t .uliin our ifermons before the chr^y, tf eciall- upo;: fucjubiic occohous as Ember week ai d Ordr atioday ; that fo we may be called upr--, ?no ftimd i>;to the betier peiiorniance of onr de-.y Fcr, tfuisdithe pr phtt: tr the eld Teftsm at, as is plain frerli al. ii. x s O y e p i fit, tins eommandni nt is fdTon. If ye will not hear, and if y ■ will ir t lay it t:h.tart, to give glory to try name, fail h the l ord eholts, I will even lend a curie upon yvr, and t »>:CUrfe your bltSirgs : Ye:-, i h; ve cuvh ! tin m drcadjibecaufe ye do not lay it to heart And .bus di- Chr iiitnfflf in the New Tefi;.men‘, a« is jileiu f ora. Mat!xxi’i, th'-ughrut th chapter ; « here he doe-s nbubthe faults of the Jewi/h clergy fo fliarply, a-d do<denounce lb many w -es a >d curfejs againlt them,are enough to make a man’s heart to ake, and t:bitsk in pieces, when he only hears them read. A>nfhereiure, if there be a mnuffer here prcfcr.t, that hatvjhim that tells him of bis faa'ts, In God’s mur e, cur <•God’s Word, and by Gcu s tuth* ri*y, then then hate,the Holy Gholl, that commands him M d< to'; tb.bateft the prophets that did !o ; r ou rit-ft Chnrt h:ftlf, that did fo too, ard tboo bateft gded oldthat ftn&ly chargid and commanded S^irurl to doto him, upon Jude of d.n:nation, x Snai i;i ;;._ f <3 }l acre be a nrnifer here prefcat, that aates; liim that|ui3 tt:ls him of hie faults, thv'n thou art wu.fe than) ic com;non people, that Jcfireu St. John the Baptisti j< do to totliem, L#uke iii *o. T hou art worfe than,jic c.nvron foldi-rs, that dcfired him to do fo tover 14/ Thou art wrrfe than a heathen, an•« del, a B lihazz-r, that highly rewardeo the prophet■i - ufcl for doing fj to him, iJan v 29. Yea, in oneH r , thou art worie than the v ry brute beasts that! bifri. And therefore the ^Holy Ghost calls them a. j.utilh pastor, Jtrem. x. 21 .tnd he gives thee the|fafoi> for it, Prov xii i. Becaufe he that hateth• proof is biuri/h. For i;e, like the brute, kicks againfkj pc pricks, and kicks against the g >od that, strikes him.lie hates to be reproved, nd he flics into his reproverst ce, and he does him a mifchicf if he can And how1 .en cantt tliou pretend to be a minister, when thouat t th Holy Ghost, hatest the prophets,Ivntesi goodId Eli, and hatest Christ himfelf J How canst thour. t< i.d to be a man, a learned man, Christian man, ,jpJ a c!ei gy na';, when Jtou art worfe than the con»->1011 peeph, v/ ik t* an ‘he common folc’iers, worfeinan tne public.ins snd finners, worie than the he»«IUent and infidels; yea a'^d worfe than the veryirutts themftlv s ? And yet this, and only this is thyTu'urt in the judgement of God, whatever men judge|| ther, i: thou hatest him that ie>l# thee of thy faults,iji!' Godrn name, out of God s Word, and by God’siiutiiority But my bTo/td 1:1 the i.ord, we are per¬vaded better things of you, rad ti i'gs that accompanylijiivation, though we thus fpeak, rich vi. 9.|| Secondly, The Holy Ghost ii. s cauled the faults oF' ion’s ministers to be written in Scripture, i.nd theme Holy Gaost alFure:. u;, that whatever is written1 Scripture, is written for our instruction. And there*-1i're, kt every m'nh.tcr here jV-efeM By his hand to-is heart, and examine his own foul stri ly, and i u-.__ tially, as he will airfwer it before Go.I at the dayJuigenent: Let him, 1 fay, thus try a id feirch him-11, wnether he is net guilty of theft fauif, which'( '4 )the Minifters of former ages are reckoned in Scriptureto have been guilty of; that fo he may fpeedily antetiectually repent of them in this world, and avoid thaieverlalling deilrqction, that is due to him for them itthe world to come.Firft of all, haft thou entered upon the Miniftrywhen thou wert ignorant of the miiiifterial office‘ Haft thou ra.i before God lent thee ? and prOpheftecto others, before the Lord hath fyoken unto thee Jer,xxiii 2 1. Halt thou fet upon the ftudy of Divinitybefore thou haft fc.^rce read, and much lefs digefteca found courfe of Fhiluf pl.y ? Haft thou fet up foa Preacher before thou haft ever read the Bibie throughly and to the purp' de ? Or doft thou wen yet know ancpnderftand the language which thy tlibie was ongiaalhwrit in ? And hall thou take n upon thyfelf the cure o:fouls, before thou art learned enough, or perhaps atage, 10 undertake it l1 Secondly, Ifthou rat learned enough ; yet art thot'wili ng enough to djfckarge fo gr, at a cure ? A t thotnot idle ? Jpoit tbot\read IVcyers in the P-rdh Ctr r<:!every clay in the week, both aiotnmg and eveningDolt rhqti ^reacij every Loin’s Day in Joreooonapcl Catechtie hi the alteraooiy ? Dpft then Catecliif*and $;.ad a Kcjtnily every holiday, as ibe S.ubrwcimmau^s thee 1 Uoft they go from hotye to houlrin thewvek tipys, Bqd fee whetiier thy people do pra^aud, perform ait o^h r Chrili andu.dcs m atcir Ijaroihp*44- 2.0. ind doit tliou do svil tnyfoif. and »*tpy Oivy p.i'fon ? Or doft th(ju o4x ensploy a m?rcenary hireli. g, who is neither ab.e no v.;iUuig *Q do it .othtfC ; but only gpeg to thy Chu eh on the Loru’idpy, and myer muids thy people all the vic rg aftei ?'^lordly, If thou art neidicr igno-yint nyr iule, Ottleaned apd laborious enough ; ytr, art thou cot C0V Cl-o.us and voluptuous ? Ait thou net given to Mthy u.ere and plcafure ? Do not whoredon), and wi.jlaiJd ftroug drink, take away thy httyt, a^d take US'that time lyhiciy thou oughtestto iptnd ii» hard itud'irter weeping, fervent prayer, and frequent failing Jlof iv . i Does not a itingy, fordidjjand immocierate/t of the wor d make thee to join koufe to houfe,id to lav Held to held, and to heap up prefermentoon preferment, till mere be ro place for the poorethr. , tha thou inayeit be placet: alone in the midftf the earth? Ifa v. 8. And when thou haft gotten;1 this together, does not there fome fecret curfe goong with it, aud make it ail to be bitter unto thee;pa, and m ke thee to be bitter and cruel to thine ownnv's, and hinder thee from being charitable andufpbable unto others, and alfo from being juft toyl if, whom thou in a manner ft,»wett for wanti neceffaries ? Dots not thy living overthrow thy■ireacbii g ? And docs not thy pradice .make all thyIrmono of no effed ?' Fourthly, If thou art neither ignorant, nor idle, norivetous, nor voluptuous; yet, Art thou not proud ?Eft tin u not fcorn to be lo plain in thy fermons, asse counted a fool for ChrkVs fake ? Doft thou notn to quit thy human leuining for the foolifhnei* pf'caching ? Doll thou not fcorn to ufe a familiar atd'pnlar way of preaching* when thou thiniteft thouNil fpeak with the tongues of men and angels ?oft thou not fcorn to quote any texts of ScriptureH thy Sermons,- and to ufc Scripture expreflions, Serip-rt- proofs. Scripture examples, and Scripture apjfti-: tions, as if they were ail too coarfe and homely forlie itching ears of this adulterous Age ? Doft. thpu notwain the very name of a Country Farfon, and en-riy fetup for a higher, a richer, and a better off ice ?ft thou not difdaivi to go and vitit poor people, ‘to!'k that which waslufi, to bring again that which wasjji'en away, and to bind up that whiph was broken, andjhrengthenthatwlvich wt.tfick ? £zek. xxxiv. i$. t)-ift>u not choofe to be the author of a new notion,1 it be falfe, rath, r Uian to preach and to prefs anknown truth upon the Hearts- of thy Hearers ?oft th >u not choofe to introduce three Gods into theb id, rather than be content with the old and true,y of expreffing the trinity.( i6 )l i-tni), A.-t thou not a deceitful handler ?iid coruffes of Cod's Word; ? Dost thou sot hold, that orgnial fin is not properly a lin ; cr ,if it he to, itbat the Last of all fills? Dost thou not hold the Pekg.an 2nd Aroitnha doctrines, instead of the an ciiand Homilies of our church? Dost thou not fr.y, t. sour articles are only a:ti les of peace, and not a:ticks of religion ? Pant oar Homilies do only cojtsm fuch dodtnncs, as '.fere nectffaiy for the imthey were writ in, but not for the time'we new li* V -TV . .in ? Do:t thou not. adore free will fp far, as to mailan idol of it; yea, and to make God hi inf; if to weupon its choice, in the alrnight) work of thy convdlion ? Dost thou not make God to be in a manner a;idle fpedator, and diy f ee will to be the only agerin thy lalvarion ? Dost thou not att.ibutc fo much tn: tural reafon and moral fuafion, th.|t tiie jio.veriu.effeclual, and u.ciistable working of God’s Spirit,wfioily rejefied by thee as a mere dream ana an iuilfancy ? Dost thou uot-expnl thy pv:n strength fo latas to frustrate the grace of Cbn:t ? Dost not ihoii. annot God malt, dice differ froci ano '.er, which :dueaiy contrary to St Paul's 25oCtrn t ? I Cor yv ;Dost thou not lay fo. great si efs upon I ttle thingsrs to negjcdb the weightier matt, i&oi the ., av, ? uwthou not make a confeience of H.c.ving m the namof Jffus ; and dost then nuke any conicLi.ee of ficeing a child with the fign of the ciots mLuytdiTi.and (iosr thou make any coi.lcience at all of cited.bing that child in the duttrinje of tlie crpfsof Christtbo’ both the Rubric and ti.e 5yt!i cation couiuiatnthee tb do io every Lord’s fay in the afternoon-,on pain of fharp reproof for the first fauh, fuipei;lion for the feebnd, and cxcommuuicaticn for ththud ? Dost thou not cry out mightily' agunst tnoilthat fierilcgionfly rob the Church of its patrimony;imd dost not at all cry out against, thyfeif and othtriti at rob thefe very people of their heart’s blood, the:lives, their fouls, and their falvaton, by fufieriujthem to be damned far want of cate chi ling and preach( 17 )g? Dost tliau not refufe to be "good tliyTetf, zulinder ofij jrs to befo : refuting to p:t;acb rfiyfeif, aa4Imlerng other* to do lo, if thou thinkest. they wiilre to preach again ft; thy great and crying, sid reign-g, and dainoing 'fin* ? Thy pkiraliti-i, thy uor-fiftence, thy Armeni-tnif.n, and thy ftiameful neglect‘catecpifing and daily prayers in thy church and■ndy : D >st thou n t pet ;.s many church prefer*tnts. as thou pcffihly esust ? anri. euvy and hate *od orthod' K minister, in thy very h^art and foul;hi fay of him, as the Scribes-and Pha ifres'did of• »nV., He hath a devil and is mad, why hear ye hin»£in x. 20. Yea, and to cornplc c thy chara&er, dostbu not reckon it a greater fault, for a man to telle of thefe thy faults, than it is for thee and ethersbe guilty of their, ?And thus I have endeavoured to examine every mi-iter here prefect. <,ut of God’s own word, whetherhe guilty of thofe fins, which the ministers of for-r ages are recorded in foipture to have been guiltyI neither accufe y<?n • of, nor • condemn you forof all thefe fn.s. But I wifli with all my heartill foul, that both God and your own conferencesry acquit and abfolve you from them all. For, IIt heaven and earth to record, t'i’.t I do-not fay thefemgs to. (hame you; but as my beloved brethren, In you, I Cor. iv 1.4. I warn y, u all in God’slie, and in Christ’s name, that yju do not think■•rfelvcs altogether free from all, or from any onekhefe fins. Tor original dn, which has in itfelfiiifevd *f every fin whatever, is not wholly morti-in in the best of you all; and therefore, it may makeit fall into the very worst of all thefe fins ; as it1 e St Pete to deny. Christ w th cm ling end fwear-1; and jdazael to do fuch barbarous things, 5s hebight, none but a dog could ever have done, 2 King*4?, 3. Oh my be’oved brethren, do not think thatar too earneit or' too much concerned for yourlie’s immortal {pul*: For.I know, I know thatMo ul s'have cost Christ very dear ; they have ee*tI( >him Hi heart’* 'blrfW; they have cdft hifh bis ..and can I Be too ranch concerned, or can t be Ccicerhed enough, for the fatvatian of thofe fouls, whithare coil my Lord, mv God, and my fSaviour Chriwho was ci ncrfied, fo much ! I warn you all in Go*Name, and in Chri-ft’s Name, that, as you value Cfalration of your fouls, and of them that hesr yo’fo be you Filre, not to find fault with the Holy Ghtwho has commanded me upon pain of damnation,warn you all agairift all thofe fins : Nor yet to fffault with me, who, according to the meafure of grandfaithfulnefs he has given me, have confciencbvobeyed his command, and incurv’d your difplealFor the good of yotir feu s : But lay all the tault.H,you arc guilty of any faults, where it ought toglaid, even upon your own feives. And rcfolve,•Rve immediately, upon a full and perfect nmendirof. li e, from this very day, from this very hefrom this very moment I'or ws do not know, w jther any of ua ft all live a moment longer We doknow', whether you or I fuaii live to go out ofChurch, or even to come into it again, to be toba d (Hired up to, the confckncnHifi Difcharge ofMini^erial ofiic* 8. .thus plainly, thus iia^a-rtiatly,■convincingly, and I nrar*ily prav to God, effea-tuaiHOh thefe eyes of mine have teen, how pohr Otry people fit in -’arknefs and fliadow of death,are ns ignorant of Chndianity, as if Chrift had ftever been purchaffcd tef them ! And I am verilvfuaded, that if you who have great and rich pin the courttry, would but do as Chrift did ; wbut go and fee how the multitudes committed tocharge, do faint and are tired, and wearied, anidown, ?nd are fcattered abro’d, as fteep bavinIhepherd ; you would not pofiiblv chufe but be mwith pity and eompaffibn on thefh, untefs your ‘ rtare all ftooe, and your bowels are all brafs,and yonfeives are more barbarous thin fea mdhfters whichout the breaft and give fuck to their youngLam, iv, 3.' ( )11 'Thirdly, The Holy Ghdft ha» caufei the faults ofi Sod's Miniftern to be written in Scripture. And theatne Holy Ghoft afftires os, that the faults of us Mi*.ifterS, are the caofe, why our people do not repeat! f their fins and reform their lives: For, fays theluofd, Jerem. axii. 32 ‘ If the Prophets had ftood inny counfel,and !;ad caufed the People to hear my wordsislhen they fr.oulJ have turn'd from their evi way, aitdrom the evil of their doings. Where you fee, that theEufe, and indeed, the only caufe here mentioned,rhy the people did not turn from their evil way,lad their evil doings, i?, becaufe the Prophets had not1 ood in the cotmfid of the Lord, and had not caufed1 km to hear his words And if you will t urn to Ma-Ichi ii 6 you will there find, that the great fuccelsiF Levi’s m.>niftry, in the conveilion of foivli untoliod, is only attributed to his holy preaching and holy*|;|nng. For, 4 the law of truth was found in his lips;1 a walked with God in O'*ace and equity; and therein eht did turn many a war from iniquity.•' Fourthly, The Holy Ghoft has canTc:’ the Faults ofllrod’s Minifters to be wri-ften in Scripture And therme Holy Ghoft affures 113, that the faults of us min;-er* are the true and only caufe, 4 why' God docs cirle'lr vcr7 bleffi figs, and corrupt our feed, and ip read dungn>on our faces, even the ding of our folemn feafte, ardiiinporal bleffings are curfed by God himfdf, biedufeu do not perform the work of your ininiftry with-1 OI frtVc'lIr’ ^ut Sie partial iu the law of the.rft high, ver 9. You either fear’fifch a man’s per¬il, and darfe not; or you admire fuch a irun’i per-1 , and will not tell him of his fins in hope of Ut-1 ? fomtthing from him, by your bale and cowardlymce And becaufe you are thus partial in God’sW| having men’s perfons in a'-'miratioh becaide ofvantage, and preferring one before another ; there-Hike its conttaptihle end befe bel|fal. ii. 2 .>* 9 Where vet; i ", tI Tour body and ground, all yfid, ymir monev, your cuttle,fa®)fori, Gad -mV mtsinfy curfe all your Wcflin rs: yea**n<! he hath curfed them already, ver t. And there-fore, tf the cowimon ohfervati'on, that is every man*!mouth be really true, I do not fay it is true : but ifit be really true, th?t clergymens children are morsunfortunate than other men’?; then ore great caufeofit is this, their father? do not fai .hfully difeharge theiministerial office And therefore Oad, according toihis threatening', does corrupt all the feed both oftheir b'elTings and e tates. And ti.ofe estates andGod’s curfe are entailed together upon their childrenJas the lepr fy and e-tates cf Geh o.i defeended toge-|ther upon hispoiterity, 2 Kings v. 27.And here in our church, no man con be recti et l|into th" ministry, tut he must take a folemu fuhfcrip-tion, that he acknowiedgeth ti e articles and the com:non prayer hook to he agreeable to God’s word, anfthat he will ufe that arid no other form in puhli«pa yer, and administration of the facraments. Antno man, that is thus folemnly received into the mini'stiy, can be lawfully admitted into any ecclcfia ticaiplace, with or without cure cf fouls, but he must alf<tske a most strict and fevere oath against Simony j(And if it were poffible for us to know how many havbroken this oath, and are guihy- of perjury ; and havbroken their fubfeiiption to the common prayer-bookwhich they pretend to magnify and admire fo miicl!by neglecting to catechire, and to read the daily prayerg and homilies:; and have broken their fubferiptiato the articles, by private diiputing, public prcachinand printing against them; it wou’d make us all,we had but the least fenfe of their miferable state, tqu?ke and tremble to think of their numbers. Ayet all thefe men have all their bleffings and all theestates, thus unlawfully gotten, < urfed with the curcf God. And tin y cannot poflibly leave them to th(child, en, but they -must alfo at the fame time necofarilv leave the curb of God aluEg with them.And Indeed, if a man ftv nrfly ccn'fiuer -he proej r-■ings of God in this particular, he will prefcntly findithem to be mo-t highly reaionable. For, all peoplecc-inn*tted to a minister’s charge, are, or at least heis to endeavour to make them his children according tothe fpirit, begotten again through his ministry, to ai flively hope, by the refurrection of Je.t Christ from thedead, Gal iv compared with i Pet i. 3. Andjif aIMi’ ister, that does not catcclufe and preach in his ownParifh church, does force his children according to thefpirit, to go from parifli to parifh and from churchto church, to beg a little fpiritual food for the r fouls,that are ready |t • . starve for hunger and thirst ; theni s it not most highly resfonable, that his children, ac*1 cording to the flefh, fhould be forced to go from houfeo houfe, and to beg their bread from dot r Eto door ?i The Lord himfelf has complained of the Preets of, del, Hof- iv 6 7. 8. M)r people are destroyed for lack:i if knowledge : becaufe thou hast rejefted knowledge,M will alfo rejeff thee, that thou (halt be no priest to meji'eeing thou forgotten the law of thy God, I will alfoIjorget thy children, and turn thy glory into fhame : andhe priests at up the fin of my people, and they fetJiJheir heart on their iniquity. That is, they eat andreast upon the facrihces, winch my people offer for theirlins 5 and they are heartily gkd that they commit faIfiany fms, and do not at all endeavour to reclaim th^m,t st thehr gain flvm’d he lost. Thus, you fee, that e-ci' n;ery ntorfel you eat, ever)' draught you drink, and everyug of cl th s you and your children wear,’are the|jr‘re of the bio- and fuds of thofe poor people,)gliich pcrifli through your negleft. You grind thethe poor ; and then, as the Pfalmift elegantly||fprdfed it, You eat them up for bread, whenever youvr htd yourfclves with the tithes and offerings of thofeqeople, who art ready to perifh cverLstirgly, breanfep yt tir fhamefo\ abf. net all the year long And byif s means, ye cover the altar of the .Lord with the tear*^ wc' p:nff of yonr miferablc people ; infomnch, thatJiieLord regrrdeth not your offering any more, nor re*nmtb it wi'k good.will at your bauds, Afal. jj. j*.\ zz INow, my Brethren, tho’ von have no rear'd to yourown Soul , nor to the fouls of your people, nor to theprecious blood of Clirid, which was died for the Re-demptu n, both of your and rh.ir Souls; ret, howtvef,hav. fotne little vetra-d to the foiiL« and bodies of vourpoor children. Remember what a dreadful legacy Jo/ib’*left td his, 2 Sam. iii 29. (^ie of them was to,havean iffue, another a lepioiy, another to lean on his flr.Sfor lamenefs, another to fall on the fword, and ano*ti-r to lack bre.d. And 'cantl tliou find in thy headto leave thy children no beuer ; yea, far worfe legacies;than thefe are ? Canft thou find i:\ thy heart to leavithy ignorance and idlcnefs to one, thy covetoufiiefs an||voluptuoufrels to another, thy pride and malice to athir4, and thy negleft of duty to the fourth ? Canftthou find in thy heart to leave -thy children no betterlegacies than thefe, thy vices and curfee, the tears ofthe living, and the blood of the {dead? And canftthou ftill expedt that they /hould thrive and profper iathe world, when this is all the portion, 'and all thitflock, thou giveft them to begin the world withWhen we thus lay the ax to the root of the tree,and begin where God’s judgements ufuaily do, withGod’s own houfe firft, and deal impartially with ourfelves; then, our hearers will think we are in goaleameft, when we do not fpare ourfelves; they will thin!'we have the fame bleffed fpirit that Mofes had, who dslnot fpnre either himfelf or his brother Aaron, or his 10ter Miriam-; but plainly and publicly recorded thelfaultsin Scripture, as well asothers:. nd they will iu‘veiable to be rfngry with us, for telling them of their liftroundly and imartly to their face. And indeed tot#you my mind freely, it is not our privikdpe, onlytell other men of their fins, and n* ver be told of otfiown. It is not our prerogative 'mV to declaim agaiiother men’s vices,andto live and rei^u in oiuov n #out controul. No, no, if ever the Church be reform:we Clergymen mull firft reform ourftlves, For wethe fait ef the earth; and therefore *e are to fp'end ‘felvei, a* fah » fpent, to fcafsn other*, aud to{ 23 )them from corruption ; Ar (\ how can we fo, if weourfelves have loft our favour ? We are the ];>: t 0f theworld ? and therefore we are to ipend cursives as acandle is fpent, to enlighten others ; and how can wedo fo, if we ourfelves are all in darkv.ei'a, Matt [v t4 ia.It is a fure fign that God is extreme angry w th a*»eople, when he takes away a good mini,her from them-For when God took away Lot, the proa h T of neht- •oufnefs, from Sodom, he prefently rained upon it 6reand bnmftone from heaven ’Tis a1f0 a f. re frrn tiri.God h extreme angry wfth a people when he fer •;them a bad mmifter : for Mien Cod fets a lion a wolf,,or a leapord, to watch over a city, has Kc not amind to deftroy it ? Jerem, v. .vi- And when God puta lying fpint m the mouth of all Ach.b’s prophets,toper made h.mtogo to Ramoth Gilead, had he notfully determined the place of hi* deftruftion, i King*,x*- 23- And therefore, you may all affure yourfelves,that God hath not many people to fave in that Panfhwhere he does not fettle a good mmifter, for if Godhad any harveft m the parilh, he will certainly fend agood labourer to reap pt down, to gather it up, andto put it into his barn.If God had any fheep in the parilh, he will certainlyfend a good fhepherd to look after them For if Godhas much people £at'Connth, or any where elfe, he al¬ways fends them a Paul, or fome able mmifter, to in-ftruft them m the faith of Chrift. For the harveft,I AC?C n theJ n0?le 0f God« arc jewels of theLord of holts, and they fhall be carefully made up, andfafdy kept by the watchful keeper of Iffael, that nevScx^ r-FcrthTr ^ ?• J ? COmParcd with Pfalmcxu. 4 For that God, who takes care of every fparrow, and numbereth the hairs of your head, andfuf-33 f tCar y°U ^in feC! et to be loftbut puts in his bottle, and notes in his book ; that| Ks ’luVa1! thi8’ Wni neTCr fuffer the foukUtokXKI, bC °iftrf0r W3nt °f 3 g°od to“Vhem ; knefs ?0U think that y°ur fouIs are(not worth fo much as a fparrow, a hair of vourjof * tear you ftwd for yourfins. - y^head>r-f /bI%n/h for want of a preaching minister ; t'seft let us h. reA great care that v.' ■ do n t pr v’-kk-c God to take i-this iitertimable bHung from us Fof at prefent,bleffed be God for it, we have the b’.'de mour ownlanguage ; and we have fom* few mipkter« thjtt cat*'cl ue as well as prerrh out of it, that we njay be edifee wh n we nre in church ; t ut if we mate light ofthis unfpcakeuble mercy, w'i cannot poShlyhave it Joi gNay, fuither, if we come to church, and do notcon cthCre with our folds as well as our bodies ; that is, ifour fouls d > not think upon what the ministers fay tous out of God's w ud, but do think of onr worldlybufmef»; If our fouls he wandvting and rovin'? abroadwhilst the minister is poaching, {praying. Src. tlirn wcprovoke God to take awry the go'pe! <T>>m us ; Ifcrthus faith the Lord, Ifa. xxix 13 14 For as much-asthis people draw near to me with their mouth, and withtheir lips do honour me, hat have removed their heartsfar from me : Therefodr, behold, I will proceed to do amarvedous work among this people, even a marvellouswork and a wonder. For the wifdom of the wife menihaT perifh, and the understanding of til? prudent menlhall he hid. And the.'efire, whenever,you come tochurch with your mouths and with your lins; butthe wifdom of ycur wife men do not perjfh, and the nn.*>f God, be not taken away from yon for ever, and 1givert to others that will make better ufe of it. From J•which dreadful judgement, good Lord, deliver ui aW 1ter Christ’a fake.Now to God the Father, Son, and Holy Ghoct, heaferib’d all DominMn, Praife, and WorAip, for Ievtrnivre. Amts, |