DESCRIPTIONOF THE%■Four Parts of the World,V I z.EUROPE, [ AFRICA,ASIA, I AMERICA.With the feveral Kingdoms, &c. con¬tained therein.Together with the Religion, Nature ofthe Air, Soil, and different Traffick ofeach Province or Kingdom.To which is added,ft,n Imtrodu&ion for the more eafy un-i derHanding the Form of the Vi/orkLStirling, Printed by C. Randall* JTHEINTRODUCTION.For the more eafy underftanding theForm of fhe World.HpHE whole globe of the Earth is con*|fidered as a body of land and water, i:(dividedas follows, viz.Land into Continents, Iflands, Penin-!fulas, Ifthmufles, Promontories, IVIoun- rtains*—Water into Oceans, Seas^ GulphsIStreights, Lakes, and Rivers.I A Continent is a large piece of drwland, comprehending divers corurtriestt.kingdoms, and Rates, joining altogetheiwithout an entire reparation of its part*by water.2. An ifland is a part of dry land en¬vironed round with water.3 A Peninfula is a part of dry laneevery where enclofed with veater, lav«one neck adjoining the fame to the Con¬tinent,4* An Ifthmus is that narrow neck ofiknd annexing the Peninfuk to the Con¬tinent, by which people may enter intoone from the other.5. A Promontory is a high part ofiland firetching out kfelf into the fea, theextremity whereof is commonly termed'a Caps or Head-Land.6. A Mountain is a rihng part of thedry land ovej topping the adjacent coun-"|ry, and appearing the firfl at a diilance,7. The Ocean is a large rendezvous,Dr great colledlion of waters, environingin confklerable part of the Continent.j 8. The Sea is a fmaller collection of'.Waters, intermixed with ifl.ands, and en«1 irely or moitly environed with land.9. A Gulph is a part of the fea everyhere environed with land except oneadage, whereby it communicates withe neighbouring fea or main ocean.10. A Streight is a narrow paflage,.drhereby either joining a gulph to theeighbouring fea or ocean, or one parr,f the fea or ocean to another.i t. A Lake is a feaUer coileclipndeep ftacdingwaters entirely furroundec■with land and liaving no vifible or immediate communication with the fea.12 A River is a confiderable ftream ofreih water ifl'uing out of one or varioufountains, and continually gliding alongin one or more channels, till it difgorgeth itfeif at lall into the ocean.sEUROPE.Of EUROPE in General.Tj'UROPE, the lead of the four parts•p-J of the world, yet not inferior to thereft in the generofity of the pfeople, theirinches, wortli and virtue ; and exceedsrthern, if we confider the true religion jit is faid to take its name from Europea,ithe daughter of Agenor, King of Phe-Inicia, containing many iiounihing king¬doms. It is 2800 miles in length, 1200lin breadth; bounded on the Weft .withIthe main ocean, on the Eaft with theliEgean fea, Pontus Euxinus, the fens ofi\JVioetuc, and the river Tanias ; and from|the bay of Granvicus, it is disjointed,tfrom Afia. In the North it is bounded;<by the Hyperborean fea, and on the(South with die Mediterranean, divided(in continents and iflands, the continentsiare all entire, and the iftands difperfedI in the Greek, Iconion, ibgeion, Adriatic,Mediterranean, Cretan and the Northernleas ; divided chiefly into Prance, Spain,Iralv, the Alp1*., Germany, Britain, Bel-1.ginm, Denmark, Swe^eland, Hungary, .Selavcnia, Ruffia, Poland, D»cia, and IGreece, with the difperfed jflands. In i:Europe are divers tongues, fuch as I,atia ^(which v/as the original) French, Italian r&c. &c. It has been twice famous for ;giving laws to ail the world, and at this Iday, though the lead of the four parts Hit excels in what may be called Sjlid tGood,Of SWEDEN,The air is cold, and the foil not very 1fruitful; however, it abounds with vari- -ous forts of fiih, and feveral mines of tin,brafs, iron, and copper. The longed Iday here is fxteen hours and the Poor ted Ifx and a half. Its chief commodities are :metals, cx hides, {kins, furs, tallow, tar, ,honey, and oaks. Lutheranifoi is theedablifhed religion.Of DENMARK.This kingdom lies north of England,the air is cold and mifty, the foil is good Land affords plenty of corn padurage tIts chief commodities are fiih particular- ,Jy herrings, fnrnicure for Ihios, armour -hides, tallow, fir, waitifeot <kc. Longelt .tlday 17 hours ami a half fir Fool: d’\:jaad a half. Religion Luthera. iGn.Of NORWAY.The air is very cold and the foil (o. I barren, that it is but thinly inhabited.-Its commodities are flock fi h, whichJthe poor people dry, and ufe in Read ofi(bread, rich furs, tram oil, pitch, mafls: icables, deal boards, which they exchangefor corn, and other necefTtnes of life,ffThe longed day two months the Ihorteflfix hours and a half They are a har¬dy people, but very mean and ignorant;profefliag Lutheranifm, but know littleHkf it.Of MUSCOVY, or RUSSIA.The dominions of Mufeovy or Ruffithare of very great extent, the people har-{[dy and vigorous and fmee the Czar Peter"[very much polidied. * Tne air very coldIduring three quarters of the year an ' themhort fummer is very hot. The fan doesmot fer in the northern parts of this coun¬try for near two months and the fh >rteftdday i$ nine hours and a half. Tne chiefo commodities are wax, honey, tallowy oilJcaviere flax, hemp, iron, fkins, &zc. Thegovernmentabiolute, and the people fo8ignorant that they think the Czar knowsail things. The religion is chritlianity,blit mixt with many RomiTl faperfli-tions.Of FRANCE.France, though under abfolnte government, and prof effing the Romifli reli¬gion, is the moil flourifhing kiogdotnin Furr pc. The air temperate, pleaiant,and healthful ; the foil extraordinaryfruitful ; and the commodities lalt filli,corn, wine, pepper, fkins, filk, 6cc.The days the fame length as in England.The language lo univerfally prevails,that it is ufed in moil courts in Europe,The manners of the people very polite,and the lail century has produced manygreat men of almoil every branch of po¬lite and nfefui learning.Of GERMANY.Germany is divided into three parts ;the North, Middle, and South, Theair and foil differs according to its fitua-tion. This empire comprehends 300different Sovereignties, yet moil or ali ofthem are fubjccl to the Emperor of Ger¬many.-—Their language is High Dutch.The people are famous for finceruy inI-.' . 9 . . . -ilheir dealings, and muchiriircnui.tr iaQ 1 w/ /'Ifpcclianipal inventions.■ I .. . Of POLAND.The goveramenr of this country is artupleclive monarchy, and on that accounti‘h often haraHed with civil wars and di-ilviiions. The air cold, but the foil fruit-. jfn!. Its commodities arc wax, pitch,•;ioapf foftn, flax, butter, cheefe, corn,ijfurs, &c. The days much the fame aslin £.ng*iand. The eitabliihed religion isTepei'y, but ail others are tolerated.Of .SPAIN and PORTUGAL.The climates are very hot, particularly|Spam, and the people lazy,- proud, for-crnal, and much bigotted to their reli-ij gion; and very jealous of their wives,;?who are given to intrigues. The com-hmodities are wine, fugar, rice, flik, flax,srailins, almonds, oranges, &c. The long-ileic day fifteen hours three quarters, thefjfhortefl; nine and a quarter.Of IFALY.This is the moil entertaining-countrytin the world for travellers, as it containsI the remains of the oravclt people thatr ever lived, viz. the Romans fhe air is'<pure, temperate, and healthful; the foil.0exceeding fruitful; but the people fo jbroke with flavery* and harraffed with tthe tyrannies, impcfuions, and oppref- 'iions ot their prieds, that it is not culti-vated in the. belt manner its commo- rdities are corn, wine, oil, rice* iilks, vel- ;vets, gold wire armour, glafles, &c. \The people are ingenious, and excel in i;the arts oi llatuary, aichitcdlure, mu£c,and pain ing.Or TURKEY in EUROPE.This country comprehends Hungary,.Greece, Little Tartary, and the Danubi-an provinces. The air oi the it* countriesis very c iiierent that of Greece pure andtemperate, the others the contrary ; thefoil miitlul in corn, roots, and variousfepts of fruit. There are feveral mines ofcopper, iron, epaickiilver, antimony andfair. Their religion in Hungary, is that,cl Rome ■„ in Greece, Little Tartary andthfc Provinces, Mahometifm. Ccnfland-nople is the feat cf the Grand Seignor,to whom they are iubitch.11A S I A.Of ASIA in General.SI A is larger than Europe and A-frica, bound on the Weil by the. ^Mediterranean and iEgean fea.% .on theNorth by the Sythian ocean,, on the Eaft:by the Strcights of Annian, and on theif South by the Arabian bay or Red Sea,'jf which parts it from A d tea. It takes itsname from Aha the daughter of Ocean,and Thetis the wife of Japsrus and mo-ti.er of Prompheus. Tin . is the nonieitpart of the world- and fad to contain,jjthe earthly paradife. -Here the Taw wasgiven and here our bu lled Saviour per-,feebed the Stupendous work; or om be-demptton. Hence fpruug the noble ieien-ces tiiat the Grtreks learneO of the, Heb¬rews, and llour.iihed under the monar¬chy of tiie Medea, Fenians, and Aity-<riaus.Of TARTAR^,j The air is very different, by reafon ofits vail extent ixoui North to bouen. TheI 2longed day in the North is about two j!:months, and the fhorteth in the South Inine hours and three quarters. The peo-|pie are rude and bai barons, their food is hherfe-fkfir, and live in tents and open Ifhieldf. The religion is Paganifm in thefNorth, and Mahometilm in the South. |They never fpeak to the Cham, who isan ablolute monarch, but on their kneeswith their faces towards the ground ; hisfubjedls itile him the Shadow of God,he looks upon hixnielf as the rhonarcbof the whole world ; Every day after hehas dined, he caufes a trumpet to tound 1thereby giving leave to the Kings and jiPrinces of the earth to go to dinner.— EThtii chief commodities are fable, mai- ltins, iilk, camblets, llax, muik, cinna- »men, and rhubarb.Of CHINA'.This is thought to be the mod popu¬lous country in the world ; the air coid 1but temperate, and the foil lb very fruit- ■iu), that they have two or tkrte ha^velts iin a year. The longed day is fourteen (lours three quarters, and the ihorceltten hours three quarters. It abounds -in iiiv.r, diamonds, quickfilver, porce- ilane» f^ks, rottoni. &c. The people areingenious, and lovets of fcieuce. TheCham of Tartary is the governor, andthe relion is Idolatry;Of INDIA.This vafl country comprehends all be¬tween Perfia and China, viz. The Mo¬gul’s empire, and the t wo Peninfub.s ofIndia, the one within, and the otherwithout the Ganges. The air in theMogul’s empire is cold, and the foil bar¬ren Their commodities- are aloes, mufk,rhubarb, borax, filk and cotton, indigo,Sec. The religion Paganifm, tne go¬vernment arbitrary, and the Great Mo¬gul is heir to every man’s etbite, whichhe difpotes of at his pleafure ; the thronehe fits upon is the richeft in the world.In the peninlula within the Ganges, theair is very hot. and the foil exceedingfruitful ; and the longeil day is thirteenhours and a half, and the ihorteit elevenand a half. The chief cormnodieies aremetals, fi.k, cotton, pearls, drugs, dates,corals, rice, ginger, cinnamon, pepper,caflia &c. The religion Maiiometiim, thegovernment various, and in lo ne partsnone at all—in cue peninlula,. ueyoad14the Ganges the air is more temperate and 'if poflible, the foil more fruitful. !t a-bounds with gold mines, and great quan Ij1tities of precious flones, and is though:to be the land of Ophir, to which Solo¬mon fent his Ihips toi* gold. The com¬modities and days are the fame as theother*Of PERSI A.The air is tenaperate in the North, butvery hot in the South; and the foil ge¬nerally fruitful The longed, day fourteenhours and three quarters, and the fhort-ed 13 hours and a quarter Its commo¬dities burious fiiks, carpets, gold mat u-fadlures, Ikins, alabafter, and ail ions of 3metals. The. people are civil to drangersluxurious, extravaj ant ia ti&nr expencesand much adr cted to allrology. 1'he re¬ligion Mah^metiiba, and the govern¬ment abiolute, being entire]) fut'jed to 'will of the Emperor, who is dried theSophia of PerfiaOf 1URKEY in ASIA.This vad extended body comprehends 1Natoha, Arabia, Syri i, Phoenicia, Palei-tme or Judea, and the Euphratian pro- :Vinces* The religion of theic countries is t-15generally Mahometifm but in fome partsthere are a great many Ghriftians andJews. Their governments are various,but all fubject to the Grand Seignor, thetyranny of wrhofe fway fouifcour iges in-duflry, that thofe Phoenicians, which ofold were fo famous for commerce, arenow become poor and defpicabie ; andJudea, the land which for its fmicfulnefswas faid to flo w with milk and honey, isnow become a barren and uncultivatedplace.AFRICA.Of AFRICA in General.A FRIG A is larger than Europe, batlefs than Alia ; is bounded on theEaft by the Red fea, on the vVeit by theAtlantic Ocean% on the North by theMediterranean fea, and on the bo nth bythe iE.thiopic ocean, and joins Alia byan lithmus of fixtymnics. Africa hasits name from Allro or Apher, defeendedfrom Abraham, and contains hx princi-\6pal regions, viz. Barbkry, Egypt, Numi-dia, ^arra, and the cotrntry of' the Neg¬roes and the dominion df Preftor John,and is in form like a pyramid reverfed.It contains 1920 Italian miles, is verynarrow, and by reafon. of the torrid zonelies a great par: uninhabited It aboundswith little brocks, cedar, and other treeshas (lore cf delicate fruit, and is a landnot to be cefpifed.Of EGYPT.The air is hot and imwholefome, thefoil as fertile te^auy in the world, ccca-fioned by the overflowing of the Nile;-but that it ever rains here is a very vul¬gar error. The longed day is fourteen'hours and a had, the lliorteft ten and ahalf. The commodities are •tugar, flax,nee, &c. The Grand Scignor’s govern¬ment, and the religion Maftometifm.Of IfARBARY.The air temperate and healthfii1, andthe foil fruitful. Its commodities arelioi:ev, wax oil, lugar, 6te. Da\s nearthe lame as Egypt. This country com¬prehends Morocco, Tunis, Algiers; ailiubjebt to the Grand Beignor, and pro- |fefs Mahometiun.l'7Ot BILDULCEIUD and NA^RAiThey are partly fubjedl to the Turks,and partly.to the Emperor of Morocco.i'The climate rot very whoiefort\ andthe foil indiiTerent. The people favageand ignorant, and the little religion theyhave is Mahometifni, Their few cohn-imodities are corn, cattle, dates, indigo.Of the Land of NEGROES;The air is very warm, yet elleemed fo:|healthy, that lick p:rfons are broughti there to recover. The foil rich, and fomeparts overflowed by the Niger. Here is'|great (lore of corn, cattle, and variorsperbs ; alfo elephants and other beaiis,both wild and tame. The longeft day1:13 hours and a quarter, the thortefl nsand a quarter Its commodities olirich|feathers, gums, amber, gold, redwood,rivit, and elephants teeth.Of GUINEA.The air hot and uawholefome to flran-: gers, the foil fruitful. It has gold mines,and rivers which afford pearl and goldduft, and abounds with elephants. Long¬ed: ctey 12 hours and three quarters, ihor-i tefl 11 and three quarters. They are thebiackeft of all Negroes, and go mofiyquite naked. They rfTsr human {acrid- jcer, think God a good Being, and are nc:vi! to him ; but pray to and worfliipthe De »il, becaufe he ihould not hurt :them.Of ETHIOPIA.It is divided into two parts. Interiorand Exterior.—Interior, the air hot andfoil fruitful. The longed, day 13 hoursand a half and the fhorteft 10 and ahalf. The people Jews, Pagans, Maho¬metans and Ghridians.—Exterior, theair and foil various. Their commodi¬ties gold, filver, pearls, corn, fugar-canes&c. The people are barbarous and fa*vage, expofing human ilelh for fale ascommon as beef and mutton. They arecalled Hottentots, are the ft it hie ft of allcreatures, befmearing themfelves withfgreafe, and themfelves with greafe, andthetnfelvcs finely adorned with the gutscf beads hanging about their necks.1 hey are fu eject to an Emperor calledPreltor John, whofe dominions are ofgreat extent.t:Of AMERICA in General.MERIC A is the South divifon ofthe world, and takes its name fromions Americas Vefpuous, an adventurous•Florentine who not many centuries agolifu ft difcovered it, and therefore by fomelit is called the New World. It is bound¬ed on the Eaft by the Atlantic and Vir-Iginian Teas, on the Weft by the Pacificjtocean, on the South by the fame divid-itng it from Aha, and on the North itsabounds are not known. Ic is divided intotiPeninlulas, Mexico, and Peru, and the■ ^circumference of the known part compu¬ted to be about 3000 miles. The Spam-lards have often talked of cutting the Ifth-ijmuR here to make it join the Streight of(Darien, and fo ftiorten the way to Ghiaai Due have never put it into execution.Of M tX(CO or N h W SP \i N.The air temperate and healthful, ba-u ng refrtdlictl by cool breezes from the20fea ; the fell fertile, producing of corn>pomgranates, oranges, cherries, peirs,apples, and plenty of herbs, roots, andplants j as alfo mines of gold and lilver,The longed day 14 hours three quartersthe fhortell 13 and a half. The peoplecivil, and excel in painting and playingon mufical indruments. The bpanifngovernment and a mixture of the Pag-anifm and Ghriftian Religions.Of NEW MEXICO or GRANADAThis country is not fully difeovered ;the air temperate, though fubje^t to ter¬rible tcmpefls ; the foil dry and barrenCattle is the only trading commodity.Tiie natives have captains of their own ;bvt the Spaniards leirding there are fub-jud to their King ; together tvith fomefew o£the civilized natives. Their reli¬gion is Paganifm, but very few have anynotion cf religion at all.Of FLORIDA.The climate here is fo temperate, thatthe inhabitants live to a great age; thefoil very iruiUul, producing corn, herbsfruit, ^old ana liiver mines; and thelivers vaft quantities cfpeails. Longeftday 14 hours and a quarter, IhorteR ninetohaik21The people naturally white, but they co¬lour themfeUes fo as to appear olive co¬lour, and all na^d/except a finall pieceof deer Ikin rou \d the mid'lle.Of i ERR \ C^N DENSIS.Confifts of feveral very large countries,chiefly belongiog to the EngUfn, fuch asNew England, New York, Margland,New Jerf.y, Penfylvania, Virginia, Ca¬rolina, &c. ’Ehe air of all theie are tem¬perate and healthful, and the foil fruit¬ful. The commodities fkins of almoftall wild beads, oil, cotton, indigo, gin¬ger, tobacco, &c. The longed day 15hours, and the fhorted nine.Of TERR A ARACTICA.This comprehends Greenland, Spitz-burg, Nov i Zembla, Terra de JefTe, NewNorth Wales. Of thefe countries littlemore is known, than that they are verycold and barren, and afford, very fewcommodities.I Of TERRA FIRMA.The climate is hot, yet not unwhole-fome ; the foil fruitful producing muchcorn and fruit. It abounds with preciousftones, and mines of gold diver, brafs,&c. Longed day 12 hours and a half, the2 2fliorteft 12 hours. The religion idolatry,the government the King of Spain.Of PERU.This is the richeft of the Spanifh plan¬tations. The air in fame places very hot,and in others ve ry cold ; fo aho is thefoil various. Its commodities are goldand filver, pearls, cotton, tobacco, coch¬ineal, drugs, &c. The longed day 12hours and a quarter, the thorteft ten anda half. This country was formerly go¬verned by Kings called Incas, but it isnow almoft entirely fubjedl to the Kingof Spain; The natives worfhip the fun,moon, ftars; thunder, lightening, See.*to.>AH Y M N,ON THECreation of the World.INTERNAL Wifdom, thee we praife,i hee the Creation fingsWith thy loud name rocks, hills and fea,and Heaven’s high palace rings.Downwards I turn xny wondering eye%on clouds and flornas below,IThofc under regions of the ikiesthey numerous-glories hew,' There like-a trumpet loud a. o ilrong,thy thunder ihakes cur c ads,/While the red ligbt’nmg Wives along,the banners of thy hut.1 Now to the earth i bend my fong}and caft my eyes abroad,Glancing the Britiih lfl -s along,bleft iiles coureis your ood. ,24Hew did his wend’rous fk.i31 array-yon fields in charming green,A thoufand herbs,his art difplay,a thonfand flowers between.His glor-es blaze all nature round,and (Irike the gazing fight,Thro’ ikies and feas, and folid ground,with terror and delight,Infinite flrength and equal'fkillfhine thro5 the world abroad,Our fouls with vafl amazement fill,and fpeak the builder GOD.FINIS.