Thrummy CapAND THEI GHAIST,A Diverting Tale.TO WHICH IS ADDED,The life of Thomas Rombold,A HIGHWAYMAN,i/lnd the Guardian Snake.NEWTON-STEWART:-Poltlwhed and sold Wholesale and Retail, byJ. M^NAiRJf.WMMWMBVi811TrmUMMY CAP,•W' ••.•-. . -'V ■ -*: - •••" v •• ^ ■ ' • • 'A TALE. . - ‘ ,' .Tv ancient times, far i’ the north'A hundred miles ayont the Forth,1 'j'onh v. lu’-n h••.gatherht.otr.tne way,Aue a sturdy hardoeh chiel,An true the w^fitkei happii v|eel,\vi’ a miil’d plaidffig' Jockey-coat.And eke on his l^-ad lsad.rg^*tA thrummy cap, baith laree and stout.Mb’ • gjiin ch as a* k a out,VVhUk button’d close aueath his chin,To keept.vlhciuali’ld m fAn* ot^A- ■ i^tuadLarge felodily mittens, wkilkht'Vi ropseFc-;- \ a. !.•:.!:• ~. an’ an aiken rank,Lae v4ffiytjimgj l>ut,ujtcp, thkdfyJutil h■ n.i-‘d for ueither fre-st: ncr’i'l.c i::■ a • jin 1 he i < v. : •(V ( kn-e and coui-ag* baith was scarce :Sae ifidpur tale, as we g'O on,I hank we’i <-a him c nv’rdiy John.Sae oi slhey'gsftde ‘ef a gmd -k^bti r;4' “’Cause;they, saw gmh’nng shovv’r3Trow very thick upon the wi ld,Whilk to theirthey sopa- did find ;A mighty slio'.ver o’ snaw uu’ .drift,As ever dang, (lgwe fras tha^lift!Right wild an] h.r'pt’rpiis Boreas-roar’d', .7Preserves ;;guo|h John, we’il haith be .->inor,dOur trygyh end vre’llne’er make out*Cheer up. say;es .Thfummy, never doubt ■,'But I’m sonie ,fiyhV w^’ya tint our way,Howe’er at.the^e^t house .wc’ii. stay,IUhfil we see ifpt grow fair,Giii no, h li'ghi well tarry there.V/eerweel, say^ Johuney, \7.e shall try,&/A3 they.a m uisron Louid^ud spy,Upon the r-jci-d.a piece afore,Bae up'the/ gade unt,o the daor,A/n ere ThnPprny cnuppii wi/; iiis- stick ;, *Syne to the door capie v^i^a-^uiok,A miekie'deg wlialbaa-ked sa’r, . ;•Bur rnruni ny fee him did mi care,H e handled weel i i.i.b i.,,-,e l Sv e* 3,And spire oh teeth lie kepUriui ad',.Uadi the Landlord came to see.And Ik v£ al d>it the matcer- be j.d iien verry soon the dog did. cease.The Landlord then did spier the case.Q 30th Tnrundpy, sir, we ha’e gane-Wii’,We thought vgehl ne’er a houne get tdi;i We near were srnoor’d amo’ the (.hhr, •And she, gademaa yell make a-shiftTo gie ui q urtera al.thFor no w we'diana IiaL\: ryvf4Farer to gangtho’ it were fair;See gin ye hae a bed to spare :What’er ye charge we sanna grudge.But satisfy you e’er we budgeTo gang awa—and fan ’tis dayWe’ll pack out all and tak the way—The landlord says o’ beds I’ve nane,Our ain folks they will scarce contain,But gin ye’ll gang but twa miles ferret.Aside the kirk dwells Robin Dorret,Wha keeps a change house, sells guid duiuk.His house ye may mak out I think—Quoth Thrummy that’s owre far awa’;The roads are sae biawn up wi’ snaw.To mak it is nae in our power;For look ye there’s a gathering shower,Is coming on—you’ll let us hide,Tho’ we sud.sit by the fireside—The landlord says to him, na, na,I caneia let you hide ava ;Ciiap a If—for ’tis nae worth your whileTo bide, when ye hae scrimp twa mileTo g&ng, sae quickly aff you’ll steer,For faith I doubt ye’ll no be here,Twamile ! quo’Thrummy deil speed upIf frae your house this night I jee ;Are we to sterve in Christian land ?As lang’s my stick bides in my hand.An siller plenty in my pouch,To nane about your house i’il crouch :Landlord, ye needna be sae rude,For faith we’ll make our quarters good.5Come John lets in—we’ll tak a seat.Fat sorrow gars you look so blate?Sae in he gangs and sets him down;Says he they’re nane about your townShall put me out till a new day.As lang’s I’ve siller for to pay—-The landlord says ye’re rather rash.To tvrn ye out we sanna fash,Since ye’re sae positive to hide:i But troth ye’se sit by the fireside ;11 tauld you aince o’ beds I’ve naneI Unoccuppied except hare ane;| In it I fear ye winna lie,1 For stoutest hearts hae aft been shyTo venture in within the roomAfter the night begins to gloom :I Nor in it they can ne’er get rest,, ,Tis haunted by a frightftd ghaist;I Ourselves are terrified a’ night:Sae ye may chance to get a fright.Like that which some o’ our folks saw.Far better till ye gang awa’:1 Or else ye’ll maybe rue the day—Goodfaith quoth John I’m thinking sae ;Better into the nook to sit,Than fly’d Gude keep us o’ our wit.The Lord preserve me frae all evil,I wadna like to see the devil,—Whist gowk eo’ Thrummy baud your peaceThat sanna gar me quit this place.To great nor sma’ I ne’er did ill,Nae ghaist nor deil my rest shall spill.\>For i defy-the moilde deil,And a Ms wai-ks I wat fu- wee!,Fat sorrow then makes you sae eery,'Fling by yours and come be" cheery,Landlord gin ye’ll mak up that bed,I promise i’ll be very gladV. is bin the same a night to jy,If that the room-be warm arid dry. •Tlse Landlord says ye’se: get a fire, 'An’ candles tod gin ye desire.'Wi* bifiks to rc^dj anti for your bed,Lil order gi§ to get it made. •John, says. As Fm a Christian man,JV ha' nevCr likbd to eittfSe nor bail, 5Lor steal, nor lie, For drink, nor whore,Fil never ga.ng within its door, ‘But sit hv the fireside a’ nighbAnd gang awa wbeneer tts light,Says thrmhifiy to him wi’ a giowrC,Ye cowardly gouk Fll mak ye cov/re,Come up the stair alang wi’me.And I shall Caution for you be, ;Then Johnny faintly gae consent,And up stairs to the room they went.When soon they gat Faith fire and light,To hand them hearty a’ the night,The landlord likewise gae them meat,As meikle as they baith could eat,Skew’d them their bed and had them gangTo it whene’er they did think lang^ :Sae wishing them a guid repose/Straight to his ain bed quick he goes.7 . ;r - ■ ,Oiu travellers bow being left alane,‘Cause that the trost was nipping keen;Coost aft their shoon and warm’d their teetAnd syne gaed to their beds to sleep.But cowardiy John wV fear v/as ({u'ackirfg,He couldna sleep but still lay waking, ySac tpoubfed v i’ Ids panic fright,'When nehr the twait hour o’ the night,That Thrujhmy waken’d and thus'fepbkePreserve’s quoth he I’m like td‘ehdak;Wi’ thirst an’ 1 rfiaun kite a drink,1 will gang down the stair X think,An’ grapple for the wafer iddh—0 for a u-aught o’ cawler ale.Johnny, grips him, and says na,1 winna let ye gang awa,Wow will ye gang and Have me hereAlane to die wi perfect fear?Rise and gae wi’ me then say§ ThrummyYe senseless guid-for iiaethirig bumutyI’m only gaun to seek some water,1 will be back just in a clatterNa, na, says John i’ll rafher ly,But as I’m like vase something dry,Gin ye can get a jug or capFetch up to me a little drap.Ay, ay quo Thrummy that 1 will,Although you sudna get a gill.Sae down lie goes to seek a drinkAnd then he thinks he sees a blinkO light, that shone upon the floor,'Uut thro’ the Jock hole o’ the door.)Which was na fast, but stood a-jee ;Whatever’® there lie thinks he’ll see;So bauldly o’er the threshold ventures.And in within the door he enters. ^But Reader, Judge of the surprise,When there he saw with wondering eyes,A spacious vault, weel stor’d wi’ casksO’ reaming ale, and some big flasks,And stride-legs owre a cask o’ ale,lie saw the likeness o’ himsel.Just in the dress that he coost aff,A thrummy cap, and aiken staff,Ganunashes and the Jockey coat;And in its hand the Ghaist had gotA big four-lugged timmer bicker,lull’d to the brim wi’ nappy liquor.Our hero at the spectre star’d,But neithter daunW was, nor bear’d.But to the Ghaist straight up did step.And says. Dear Brother, Thrummy Cap,The warst ye surely dinna drink.Syne took a Jug, pou’d out the pail,And fill,d it up wi’ the same aleFra under where the spectre sat,And up the stair wi* it he gat,Took a good drink gac John anither.But never tald him o’ his britherThat he into the cellar saw,Mair then he’d naething seen eva.Right brown and nappy was the beer;Whar did you get it, John did spier,Sayes Thrummy, sure you need na care.9I’ll gae and try to get some mair, 1‘:Sae down the stair again he goes.To get o’ drink anither dose*Being positive to have some mair :But still he fand the Ghaist was there.Now on a But behind the door j \Sayes he, ye didna ill before.Dear brother Thrummy, sae I’ll tryYou ance again, because I’m dry.He fills his jug straight out below.An’ up the stair again does goJohn marvel’d sair, but didna spierAgain where he did get the beer,For it was stronger than the firitSae they baith drank till like to burst.Syne did compose themselves to rest.To sleep awhile they thought it best.An hf>ur in bed they hadna been.And scarcely well had clos’d their een,Whan just into the neighbouring cham’erThey beard a dreadful din and clamour \Beneath the bed-olaes John did cowr.But Thrummy jumpt upon the floor.Him by the sark-tail John did baud,L’y still, quoth he, what are ye mad ?-Thrummy then gae a heasty Jump,And took John in the ribs a thump,Till on the bed he tumbled downIn little better than a swoon.While Thrummy, fust as he could rin,Set atf to see what made the din.The chamber seem’d to him as lightAs gif tho sun were sinning bright jThe Ghaist \^ras stiitkhi at the door,In the same dress he bad afore ;And o’er anerit it at the vra’M- ere ither apparithms’twa.Thrummy belieid therti for a \yee,But ne’r a word as yet spoke he :d'iie spirits serni’ to kick a ba’The Gbaist-against tiie tither twa ;Wliilk ck)Se-tb<-y dr'ave baifli back and fere,Atween the cbimJa and the door.He stops awhile, and sees the play,Syne rinning up, lie this did soy,. Ane for an e in ay weel eon,pare,But twa fur ahe is rather sair;Tlie.playfe riae eojual, sae I vow,Dear brother Thrumrny I’ll help you.Then wi’ his fist he kick'd the ba’,Gard it plav stot esratnst the wa’Quick then as lightning frae the sky,The spectres with a horrid cry,Ail vanish’d like a clap o’ thun’er,While Thrummy at the same did v.’ion,er.The room was quiet now arid dark,An’ Thrumrny triping in Ids saik ;Glauming the way back till his bed,He thinks he bears a person trdad,An’ ere be gat without the door,The Ghaist again stood him before,And in bis face did staring stand,Wi’ a bitr candle in his hand.11\Yba brings you frae the si■ tides belowI in my maker’s name cQinmand,You tell your story just trff hand 5For wad ye hae ? I’ll‘do my best,For you to let "you be at rest.Then says the ghaist’tis thirty yearsSince, Pve been doom’d to wander here,lu all that time there has been none,Behav’d sae bold as ye have done,"i Sae if you’ll do a job for me,Disturbance man* I’ll neViT gie,j Say on your tale, quoth Thrummy II To do you justice sure will tiy.II Then mark me well the ghaist replied,1 And ye shall soon be satisfied,|| Frae this aback near forty year,1 I of this place was overseer,!' Y lion this laird’s father had the land,1 Each thing was then at my command:> Wi’ power to do as I thought tit,il In ilka cause I chief did sit,if The laird paid great respect to me.But I an ill return did gie.j The title deeds of his estate,. Out of the same I did him cheat ;1 And staw them frae where they did lie,Some days before the laird did die.His son at this time avqs in France,And sae I thought I’d hae some chance.Gif he sud never come again,That the estate would be my ain.laBut scarcely three bare weeks were past.When death did come and grip me fast,Sae sudden that f had nae power,The charter back for tc restore.Soon after that hame came the heir, TAnd syne got up tho’ reefu’ rair.What sorrow was come of his rights,They sought them several days and nightyBut never yet hae they been seen, ' ‘ •;As I aneath a meikle stane.Did hide them in the chamber wa’,Weel sew’d up in a leather ha’,But I was necr allowed to rest.Until the same I had contest.But this to do J hadna power,Frae yontime to this vena hour.That I revealed it unto you,And now I’ll tell you what to do.Till n*e langsyne nae mony kenfe,That this same laird the rights did want*But now they hae him at the law,And the niest owk the laird man shaw. : iAfore the court the rights o’s land >This puts him to an unco stand ^For if he dinna shaw them there,O a’ his land he’ll be stript bare.Nae hope has he to save’s estate.This makes him sour and unco blate ^He canna think whar’s rights can be. {And neer expects them mair to see.But now my friend mark what I tell, iAnd ye’ll get something to yours©! :13Tak out tfi<! stane there in the waVAnd there yuu’H get the leather ba\'Tis just the same that you did see.When you said that you wad help me.The rights are sew’d up in its heart,But see ye dinna wi’ them part,Until the laird shall pay you down, _Just fifty guineas and a crown.Whilk at my death was due to rae >This for thy trouble I’ll give thee,And I’ll disturbe this house nae mair,'Cause I’ll be free frae a’ my care—This Thrummy promised to doAud syne the ghaist bad him adieu,And vanished with a pleasant sound,I Down thro’ the laft and thro’ the groundrThrummy gaed back syne to his bed,jii And cowardly John was very glad,That he his neighbour saw aince maTr,If For of his life he did despair.1 Wow man quoth John, whar hae youliecniCome tell me a fat you hae seen f /Na bide says Thrummy till day-light;IAnd syne I’ll tell you hale and right,Sae baith lay still and took a nap.Until the ninth hour it did chap... Thrummy syne raise—puts on his claise,i And to the chamber quick he gaes;Taks out the Stane out o’ the wa\iAnd soon he found the leathern ba\Took out the rights, replaced the stane,I Ere John did ken where he had been.I-f*Then baith cape stapping down the stairvThe rnorning iio\y vvas‘ealni arpl fair,Weel says'the laird my truVty frien,Hae ye ought in your chapiter sqpq,Quoth Thrummy sir I naething sawlliat did 'me oily i'll ava—Weel quoth the laird ye now may gang,Ye ken the day’s nae .yerra Lang ;In the meiintime it’s cal ip ami ylear,Ye lose your time in waiting here. ■Quoth Yhrummy sir mind what I tell,l’v mair right Iiere .than yoursellSae till I like I here shall bide.'/’he laird at this began to oh id :Says he my friend ye’re 'turning, rude.Says Idirummy I’lliny claimmake goodkr>t Il« i.e i just oetore you. a,7die rights of this estate ean shaw,And that is mair than ye can do-—What quo the laird can thut be triiCj’ jf’is true quo Thrummy look and see,D’ye thitik that I wad tell a lie.y7he parchm.ent from las pouch then drewAnd down upoh the table threw.TTie laird at this up to him ran,And cryki where did you get them man ?Syne Thrummy tauld him all the tale, yAs I’ve tauld you balUi q]ep* and hale,77lie laird at tliis was fidging fainThat he hat! got his; rights again,And fifty guineas down did tell,Besides' a present for himseli1,5Thnm'imy him thankV), aii’ t-yre Lit gc-wdIntill a muckle ] ni!?e he stew’d,And cram in‘d it in his «.\1< r ] t in !>,An’ syne serght out ids. aiken croutch.Said fair ye n eel, I maun an a,tnd see gin I get through the sr.a.Veel, fare ye well, reply‘d the Laird :’ut how eemes it ye Laimo’ shar’d)r gi’en your neiber o’ the money ?fa, by vr.y saul, J, Sir, quoth. Thrummy,If hen I the filler Sir, did win,To had in this v, ad he a sin,^. . ■iffore that I the Ghaist had laid,he nasty beast had—  the bed,nd sae my tale I here do end,hope no one it will offend :.y muse vvijl nae assist me ledger,he dorty jade sometimes does anger,thought her arice a gay smart lass,Jut now she’s come to sick a pass,jjhat a’ my cudgelling and wkeeping,|liU, hardly wake her cut o’ sleeping,P, plague her mair I winna try,it dight my pen and lay it by.5 sHi ’ vo r> ,i -4i • MOi •:Life of Thomas PiOmbcid,A HIGHWAYMAN.■iroMAs Rum cold, lorn of CTccitalle fa-116rents iti Ipswick» in the county of Suffoby them put apprentice to a bricklayer, 1Jjot serving out his time, inclination led hcoming up to London, he soon gft gang of highwaymen, with whoften took a purse on the road, tilhe began to venture robbing passerhimself} and among the several robbcommitted alone, we have an accourfollowing:—Being informed that the most r<Dr. William Sancross, Archbishop <terbury, in the Reign of King Jansecond was to take a journey from Lpalace to the city of Canterbury, heed to way-lay him} and accordinglya sight of his grace betwixt RocheslSittingborn in Kent, he gets intoand presently spreading a large tabk(m the grass, on which he- hadseveral handbills of gold, he then tbox and dice out of his pocket, andplaying at hazard by himself HLriding by that place,, and espyingshaking his elbows by himself, sealhis footmen to know the meaningThe man was no sooner come up t<bold, who was still playing, swearinlosses, then he returned to the Rtprelate, and telling what he had scvery early to follow bad courses, fomeans being obliged to leave hoi17iiraoe stept out of his coach - to him, andieing none but him, asked him who heas at play u*ith ? D—n it, quoth Rum-bid, there's 5001. gone; pray sir he si-mt. His grace going to speak again, ayaid Rurfibold) there’s 100 pounds moreft; Prithee (said the archbishop) who aftau at play with, Rumbold replyed. with—,Quoth his Grace, with—! and bow11 you send the money to him ? by (saidHUnhold) his imbassodors ; and thereforepking upon your Grace to be one of them'ordinary,-! shall beg the favour of youJL caiTy it him." Accordingly gave his*ace about 0OO pounds in gold and silveri; put it into the seat of his coach, andI'ay he went to Sittinghorn, to bait—-aimhold rode thither also to bait in ano-;r inn ; and riding some short while l>e-e his Grace, as soon as he had sight ofm again, hediad planted himself in ann-?r field in the same playing posture asiore : which his Grace seeing, he wenturn to visit this strange Gamester, whomtook to he really a mad-man. No sooneri his Grace approaching Rumbold,a had then little or no money on his clothhe cried put six hundred pounds, Whatr |id the archbishop) lost again? no (reply dSmhold) won by —. I’ll play this handand then leave off. So, 800 ' poundsre, Sir, won. I’ll leave off while I’mGrace will you get year wimrhigg ? miR^ui^old, of hk. ambassador to<o. So:. i'lig. up \ridi word and pistol in beadlik Grace’s coach, he took l^(X^...pour ;c j oatry, lor forty laiies about London i!t .at ^ozia day,, being iufovmed that a eoiof travellers lay at a certain inn in Cjbrock, he arpse ;early next morning.fjyent before to surprise them in Mai«head-Thicket; but the travellers ijhslof riding- to ifeudi eg went to Windsor,! jthat Runibohl missing his. prey, was )bark very melancholy, when ineetirhhis Colonel the late Earl of Oxford,one groom and a footman, he claphair into his mouth to disguise hints(his intended design, and attacks his19. ship, with lh3 terrifying wordi. Stand anddeliver, wdthal swearing, that if he. madeany resistance, he v/aB.a dead man. Sueiiexpostulations the earl used, to save whaths had were ‘wholly, in vain; however heswore that since he. must la~ a what die, had, Rumbold. .should search his packets. hiujself, for lie would not be a( that trouble.Hereupon commanding his Lordships ser-’ vaht to , keep at ahavo.apiuutdied.foot dis-tan(\ev upori: pain of death, hd- took the..pains of searching his Colonel, he found.uotliing but several boxes and'dice in thepockets of his coat and waistcoat, hebe-gaa. to rend the .skies, with many -oaths, -us .rearing also.be believed he was the groom: p aider, or else some gaining sharperi.going..tq ,bite the poor ignorant people at3. country fairs, and markets; till searchingI bis Breeches, he found in tiiem a good gold|wuteli, and six guineas, changed his an-| gry .countenance, and giving his Lordship118 pence, bad him be of good clieer, goiup to bis regiment (then < at. London) ask fast as he could, and do his duty • as hei|ought, and when he next met him, liejtwould give him better eacourageaient.i" Kumbold was a remarkable facetious fel¬low, as appears by the following relation,ijtebfig at an inn in Buckinghamshire, andrearing how unmercifully the hostler wouldcheat the poor horses of their provender,20privately went into the stable, and hidhimself under the manger. In a little timeafter, the hostler came also into the stable,to feed Rumhold’s mr.re ; and no soonerhad he put the oats and beans into themanger, and laid down his sieve, but hesweeps them all into a canvass bag fixt un¬der one corner of the manger, and wentIns way. Rumboid comes from his privaterecess, and went into the kitchen again,when after dinner seeming to go away,and called for his reckoning, he asked thehostler, ‘ what corn he had given his mare?he replied, all that he had ordered him tnay, ,the gentiemem he dined with, sawhim bring it through the kitchen. ’ QuothRumboid, don’t tell me a lie, for I shallask my mare presently. Now this strange |saying put all the strange gentlemen with |him into admiration ; but above all theninnkeeper, who asked at him if his mare|could speak ? yes said Rumboid. It is (re-||plyed the landlord, impossible. Not at alljjfquoth Rumboid) for when I was at thejiUniversity of Lyden in Holland. I studied 2magic, or the black art; and afterwards Iit being my misfortune to many a scoldingswife, I led w ith her such an uneasy life, Ithat to be rid of her, 1 by my great skillin the said art transformed her into a mare .so fetch my mare hither, and you will secwhither the hostler has done her justicei accordingly tlio mare was fetch’d; •hen Rumbold striking her on the belly,e laid her mouth to his ear, through eus-m, just as the pidgeon did to Mahomet’s ;Why there now (quoth he) did I not tellm, Sir that the hostler cheated her.Tiy (said the landlord) what does she say ?Sy, (quoth Rumbold) why she says thatme hostler has thrown all the corn in a!ig placed at one corner or the manger.” 'ereupon, the landlord and his guest went|to the stable, and searching the manger,i iund the hag of corn in one corner of it,r which he begged a thousand pardons,id presently turned the hostler away,if Not long after this atlventure. RumboldMeeting six of the officers of his regime lit■n the road, put his mask on, and after aoy little dispute, robbed them of 1 .“<)i ounds ; the next day being upon a nvus-e id known again by theni, he was cal-;|d out of his troop in order to be sent to.Dual 5 at which, saying, it would be his glo-Iv for a single trooper to be bang’d “ for ‘f)bl)ing half a dozen commissioned offi-:'>'rs; ” they for fear of being branded with -p.war dice, let the matter drop withoutituv prosecution.a journey ftom Baroche to Dhuboy,The Guardian Snake.22a Mr Forbss stopped at Nurrah, a largirained town,' wliich had been jd&ademand banit by the IMabrattaa, The p'nn-, eijmi hanae had beloiigevi lb ah opulehm an, wli > emigrated daring the'. arai-, an\ld ed in b dbbta!; ca iaay, ;M • F jrbijs v^;privately informed, that under ohe of tbittoa-ers there was a seei’et cell,' feibied tr' contain his IreasUre : thd iiifermatidh ‘cbiiitinot he doubted, beehube if eanie from themason who co.natni'ted the cell.' Aoeahhiagiyth e man coadtidted him throiba se-vera' spacious courts' and appar^m^htsi toa dark eloset in a tower : tie room V43about eight feet square, brdng the ^diohjsize of the in terior of the -tower V addit v/as soin^stories above*the plage' v/heretie tre ivurehrai s i:d to be deposito'd. fn?the floor th ere was a-hole Targe' 'enoughfora slender person to pas^throdgh f meyenlarged it, and sent doivn tlrO men by aladder. After desreudmg severa'i feet, theycame to 'another floor, cOinphoed in like'mauaer of bricks and chamiaih, ah'd 'hprea so wan asimiiar aperture; hv'iueh ovasabmenlarged, torches werd'procured, anil froaifheir light, Sir Forbes ihrceivi'd from theupper apartment a dungeon of great‘depthfrom below, as the mason had described.He desired the men ts descend and searchfor the treasure"; bit they refused, declar¬ing that where erer money was concealed23in HkldorJ3th.n3 there; w;is alwafs a dprnon,in thrs shajfe 'of d! sprpafit, to guard’it He.kinghed aft tficif 's^etititiM^'and repeated! li'w orders in feuclV a manhpr 'as' tQ eu^'ce!! obedianee, though ht attealints svmpha-»ijtliized v/itU the hieO, a::d s .vui.vi t/ ex-i pent the event y.dtli VriOfje^ o f fear arid a\vejt-han of euriositr. Our ladder was tooijiuoifet lloor of the' 1 eiSmgiii^edthit light tv hi eh tli^tddhdedd'ii (hjeir haiids.#H*« n^«t ;wMeh tfsey eaiTieu ai^uejrIBut rhhy Lad not be^ii maiiy secoinls onthe ground, beforo: th.Oy' 'pii.t thatthey were ki'dldsM' v.itli a lAr^e snake. Inhhte^of ti.e-r o;-r:urig dir r<-r'u-> was in-ereduloiife, aiul (iPciaVed, the robe's slioaU(not be lei "down tb ifieih tjH he Lad seenthe creature ; theiv cries were die:..L i. jLe LovgahiMvas IndcreiMep aiid t!„tp. upo^rlights w6ve'held feteihliiy, tQ gTye uLrn.,.uatfHrreih fe^i!p3fefeniie! nup"^^ dpn-*goohth V* LeiT life'pdfeeiVeel'fedaiething likeLiilifs ef wood, bi‘!ratlidf %e says,'like aship’s- eahl-.- sec's* f.x-n; the (h-,:k/ce.k.;i upin'a-daik hole j: bht ho language cun ex-p'ress- Life sehsaifou of1 astouishinent. andjterror, when he saw a serpent actuallyfear its Lead over an inuypnee length ofJbndy, ecilei in u^Liidts Ou the gvcuud;24arul working itself into exertion J>y a kindof sluggish motion. ‘ What I felt,’ he con- |tinues, ‘on seeing two fellow creatures ex- j1posed by my ordsrs to this fiend, I mustleave to the readers imagination. ’ But tohis inexpressible joy they were drawn up |unhurt, but almost lifeless with fear. Hay Jwas then thrown down on the lighted tor- ldies which they had dropped. When the <iflames had expired, a large snake was !found scorched and dead, but no money. 1Mr Forbes supposed that the owner hadcarried away the treasure with him, butforgotten to liberate the snake which hehad placed there as its keeper. Whether 'the snake was venemous or not, he has jomitted to mention, or perhaps to observe ; |if he were not, it would he no defence for !the treasure; and if it were, it seems to ihave been too torpid with inanition, con¬finement and darkness, to excercise its |powers of destruction. Where the popular fbeieif prevails that snakes are the guard- fians of hidden treasure, and where the art 1of charming serpants is commonly practis- ied, there is no difficulty in supposing thatthey who conceal a treasure, (as is oftendone under the oppressive government ofthe East) would sometimes place it under#such protection.FINIS.