t1(I€HS&P TRACTS, ?]o, 7.For the Farmers’ Ingle-neuk.CONSISTING OFTHE MURDERER DISCOVERED,THE SPOILED CHILD,THE BROKEN BRIDGE,ANDDOMESTIC MANAGEMENT.DUNFERMLINE :PRINTED AND SOLD BY JOHN MILLER.1S26.awn -T A JL E S.Tht first ami second of the following Tales is extracted from theScotch Cheap Repository Tracts ; and the third and fourthfrom the Cottagers of Gler.burr.ie ; hoi ks, which from theimportant instructions they convfey—as to the manners andpractises of humble life, deserve a place in every CottageLabrary.THE MURDER DISCOVERED.I accompanied the gentlemen into thegarden, and was shewn the place whereher own father found his murdered daugh¬ter. The grass was red with blood, and themarks of feet were quite visible on theground, which happened to be soft andwet. In endeavouring to trace the foot¬steps, we observed that they led over someground which had been newly dug withthe spade, and that they had made a re¬markable distinct impression on the loosesoil. On examining that impression, wesaw that there was something particularin the form of the shoe. It was uncom¬monly broad and large, and round-toed,and, from its shape, gave reason to suspectthat its wearer was what is called jlat-sokd.I It had also been lately pieced at the heeland toe, and armed with broad-headed taks,the prints of which were distinctly marked.' This was an important discovery, andMr Johnson, who was accustomed to usehis pencil, set himself,, with the assistancei of the surgeon, to take a correct measur-i ment and drawing of it on paper. In thei mean time, Mr Thomson and I continuedl the search, and having traced the footstepsI to the garden wall, the good minister, whoI happened to be before me, uttered an ex¬clamation of honor, and directed my at¬tention to a stone on the top ot the wall! which was stained with blood. On lookingi more minutely, we saw the marks of bloodyI lingers on the stone, and concluded thatl the murderer had made his retreat out ofthe garden at this place. A plowed fieldi on the other side of the wall favoured ourfurther search, and wre tracked the villainto a small piece of water wdiere he hadprobably washed his hands, and throughwhich he appeared to have waded as theprints of feet were seen on the oppositebank.- I threw off my shoes and stockings,n and followed the course we supposed themurderer had taken as accurately as I could;but as the ground on the other side was» covered w ith natural wood, I could tiacehim no further. On my return, I observed4something bright at the bottom of tlWater* which I took up, and found to behuge clasp-knife with the letters R.scratched rudely on the 1 andle. I shutdered to think that with hi ; very instriment the fatal deed was probably coinmited, and we were confirmed in this opinioby discovering marks of blood on thhandle, which the water had not wholwashed away.When the ceremony of interment waover* and before any person began to retireMr Thomson, standing on a grave-stone iinformed the company, that it was the wishof the sheriff that no person should be per lmitied to leave the church-yard till an exanimation had taken place, which mighserve to throw some light on this dark anthorrid business. ‘Huzza!’ cried Roher'iStewart; ‘ that’s right! Til guard the yettand let none out.’ ‘ You are saved thattrouble, young man,’ replied Mr Thomson i‘for there are constables already posted at the|gate, and none need attempt to make thehlescape. I must request every person,’ con¬tinued he, ‘ to sit down on the grass in thevacant space at the north side of the church,arranged as nearly in rows as possible.That you may not think this request un¬necessary, I will explain to you the reasonof it. The murderer, whoever he was, left5the impression of his shoe on some new dugground near the spot where the crime wascommitted. An accurate drawing of theform and dimensions of that impression hasbeet) taken by my friend Mr Johnson, andis now in my hand. Our intention is toexamine the feet of all who are present, andcompare their shoes with this draught, inhopes that this measure may tend to detectthe.guilty person.’ My eyes were steadilyfixed on Robert Stewart during thisspeech, and 1 observed his face turn paleand red by turns. The marks of guilt[were visible, I thought, on his countenance;but when Mr Thomson ceased speaking,he had recovered himself sufficiently to ex¬claim, ‘What good ’ill that do! D’yethink the man that killed the lass wad ha’ethe face to come here ? or, if he was here,how could you find him out by the sted o’his foot ? A hander folk may ha’e shoono’ the same size, and if made by ae shoe-'f maker, they may be o’ tne same shape too.Sit may mak’ innocent folk suspected, andrvill do mair ill than good ; saefor my partI winna consent till’t. Come, let us be offlads.’ As he spoke, he pulled some of hiscompanions by the arm, and turned to¬wards the gate with the intention of makingShis escape. ‘ The first man that leaves thephurch-yard before he is examined,’ criedHI d(v.6Mr Johnson from among the crowd, ‘ willbe taken up as a suspected person, andcommitted to jail. I have the authority ofthe sheriff for saying so.’ A murmur ofapprobation succeeded his speech, andStewart turned back intimidated, andseated himself on a grave-stone at a littledistance, folding his arms across his breast,and kicking his heels against one of thefeet of the stone, in order to appear verymuch at his ease. As soon as silence wasobtained, Mr Thomson, in a few simplewords, refuted Stewart’s objections, andat the same time held up to public viewMr Johnson’s drawing of the footstep, toconvince the people that there was some¬thing so remarkably peculiar in its shape,there could be little doubt of finding outthe person to whom it belonged by themeans proposed. Every one seemed noweager to have his shoes examined, andhastened to set himself on the grass. Twoshoemakers were employed to take themeasurement, and Mr Johnson accom-panied them with the drawing in his hand.Stewart had placed himself in the middleof the crowd, and I saw him make one ortwo unsuccessful attempts to shift his seat, soas to escape examination. When at lasthis turn came, his colour suddenly changedto a deadly pale, and with a horrid groanI.iI7he fell senseless on the ground. He wasrestored by the application of some waterwhich was quickly procured, and, lookingwildly round him, he exclaimed, ‘You can¬not say that 1 did it! It was dark—whosaw'me?’ ‘Cod Almighty saw you, un¬happy young mm !’ said Mr Johnson in atone which thrilled through my heart; forhe had now taken the dimensions ofStewart's shoe, and found it corresponded,in every particular to the copy he haddrawn. The murderer, for I had now nodoubt that this was he, having recovered| his strength, started up on his feet, and,drawing a sharp pointed knife from hispocket, threatened to stab to the heart thei first man that laid hands on him. He thenmade a desperate spring, and before any(person had sufficient presence of mind toprevent him, reached the church-yard wall,which he cleared without difficulty, butlosiim his balance when he reached thenlother side, he stumbled forward, and fell onSthe point of his knife. He was now ove*~Jtaken and secured, and as he was losingmuch blood, he was conveyed to the manse,[which happened to be the nearest house ;it ho surgeon, who wTas present, attendingIhiin for the purpose of dressing his wound,The knife had entered the bowels, andimaue a dangerous wound, which tke8siirgcoq .imipediately pronounced likely ton;prove mortal. The unfortunate wretchoverheard the opinion of the surgeon, and icried out with a savage joy, which filledfjievery person present with horror, ‘ TheI’ll disappoint the law yet. If I could nmak\ my escape in ae way. I’ll do it ianother. Sleep, sleep, they say, it’s a sleep.‘ Alas ? young man,’ said Mr Thomson'.shuddering as bespoke, ‘ in that sleep there|are awful dreams to the wicked. Dreamsdo I say ? they are horrible realities. Ggrant that you may not find—’ ‘ It’s a He !interrupted he with a dreadful oath, ‘I’ll mbelieve it—sae ye need na preach to me.Mr Thomsox, finding he could do no g<by continuing the conversation, left throom ; and it was not long after tins blearned, that the wretched murderer diestill hardened and impenitent.THE SPOILED CHILD.Mrsixo on long-gone-by times I approachled my brother’s} cottage, and a thousan*little incidents of my early aaj’S rushed irto my remembrance. This stone,’ said I t«jmyself, ‘.was the starting place of our racesand that gate was our goal. Round yondeaged thorn we used to hunt the hare, amI'v'st beneath the shade Aviien we were tiredof the mimic chace. Here stands the oldstump, where many a summer’s evening Ihave sitten, preparing my morning’s task ;there runs the little stream, where I havemade and unmade so many ponds, andcascades, and islands.’ I was just beginningto moralize on the happy period of child¬hood, when 1 found myself at my brother’sJ door. A new train of sentiments andiff feelings now swelled my heart, and 1 wasIf] about hastily to enter, when 1 heard sounds1 within not at all in unison with the mild,4 serenity of nature out of doors, or with thebright visions of peace and joy, which sot‘ many fond recollections had presented tow my imagination. ‘ Be a glide bairn ! be agude bairn, this moment <’ cried an angryfemale voice, whilst the little rebel she ad¬dressed screamed as loud as he could bawd.‘ If you dinna baud your tongue directly,I’ll send for the minister. Hook ! yonderhe’s coming to tak you aw a’ in his pocket.I Wheesfc!’ Terror f< >r a moment got thejibetter of passion, and the little fellow,,(checking his cries, looked;towards the door,'jllSbut seeing nobody, for I kept myself con-bealed, he Avas convinced that his motherwas deceiving him, and renewed the roarpf rage and defiance. ‘Here, bogle man,’medthe disappointed mother,endeavoufino'10to overpower hi in by increasing the objectof fear, ‘ here, tak’ him; lie’s an ill bairn.’This mode of education was so contrary toail my ideas of propriety, that 1 could standit no longer, and 1 hastily opened the door.T he child, a fine little fellow about fouryears old, uttered a loud scream of despairas soon as he saw me, and, starting up, raninto a corner, where he hid himself behinda table ; whilst his elder brother and sister,who were sitting by the fire, sprang withequal marks of horror into a bed, andcovered themselves with the bed-clothes.The mother, too, was at first evidently con¬fused and alarmed ; and 1 am sure, if thebogle man himself had made his appearance,he could scarcely have created greater con¬sternation. After having, amidst all thisnoise and bustle, with some difficulty in¬troduced myself to m\ sister in-law, whomI had never before seen, 1 was receivedwith a very hearty welcome, and my namefjson George, the eldest boy, who, ashamed]of his fears, came slinking out of bed, was*dispatched to carry the tidings of my ar¬rival to his father.“ My dear brother came quickly in from |the field, and received me with a smile of|such tender affection, that I totally forgotjthe disagreeable scene I had witnessed, till Ithe little culprit behind the table, cured of11his fears, but finding himself overlookedand neglected, suddenly brought himselfinto notice, by bursting out anew into abitter squall of vexation and disappoint¬ment. My brother, after his wife hadbriefly explained to him the circumstancesof the case, turned to the.little boy, and ina soft soothing voice said, ‘ Did they frigh¬ten my wee Jock with the bogles? 1 thinkthey were nae blate. Ah! ah !’ continuedhe, pretending to strike the mother, ‘ tak’ yethat, nasty mamma, for sending for thebogles. Come to dady, my dear pet, andthe bogles shallna touch ye. Awa’, dirtybogles, ye shallna touch my gude bairw.’Jock, however, had a will of his own, andhe knew from experience, that by holdingout he could bring his father to his ownterms. He therefore obstinatelv refused toleave his hiding-place, and persisted incrying, though in a lower tone. Come awa’,my bonny man,’ resumed the fond father,pretending to search few something in hispocket, ‘ come awa’, and see what 1 ha’egotten here. Here’s an apple for a goodboy. A bonny red cheekit apple ! There’sa good bairn. Isna he a gude bairn, uncleGeorge?’ I made no answer to this ap¬peal, but waited in silence to see bow thiscurious scene would end. In the mean time,the little fellow, bribed by the deceitful112promise, came slowly from his corner, and<with his finger in his mouth, walked up tohis father’s knee. My brother took him inhis arms, and wiping his face, which was allbeslabbered with tears and dirt, called him4 his dear gude we Jockey,’ and kissed himfrom ear to ear. IVee Jockey, however,Avas not easy cajoled. ‘ W here’s my apple ?Gie’s the appie ! Gie’s the apple I tell ye '’was so often and so firmly repeated, thatthe indulgent father, who had no* apple togive, began to repent of his stratagem,when the mother relieved him by thinkingof an expedient. ‘ Here, Jenny,’ cried she,winking at her daughter, and pretendingto put money into her hand ; ‘ here; rin tothe shop, and buy the bairn an apple.Mak’ haste, now.’ Then taking him onher knee, she sang lullaby to him, till, ex¬hausted by his exertions, he fell fast asleep,and was safely lodged in bed. ‘ Had thischild been properly brought up,’ said I tomyself, ‘how much easier would it havebeen to have settled all this mighty affairby a single look of authority, and howmuch better, too, both for his head andheartl” But I could not let the presentoccasion pass, Avithout seriously admonish¬ing my relatives on the impropriety of suchconduct towards their children.13. I1* i1 have already taken frequent oppor¬tunities, said I, of making you acquaintedwith my ideas respecting the proper methodof training your children at home ; but itis of so much importance that you shouldhave correct views on this subject, that 1could not feel satisfied were 1 to neglectthis opportunity of repeating them. Thisis the more necessary, as 1 have by myillness been prevented from committingray thoughts to writing as 1 intended. Thegreat difficulty in the education of children,as it seems to me, is to hit the propermedium between gentleness and severity.Harshness breaks and sours the temper ;too much indulgence enfeebles the mind,or sets the passions loose from all restraint.Let it be your constant aim, therefore, tohold the reins of authority with a gentlebut steady hand. Be the friend and notthe tyrant of your family. Show yourchildren that you love them, and they willlove you in return. Treat them with con¬fidence, and they will open their heartsto you. At the same time, do not let amistaken tenderness prevent you from ad¬ministering correction when necessary.Kemember, that ‘he that spareth the rodbatetli the childbut take care that reason,not passion, direct the punishment. For asimple accident, however vexatious and14distressing it may be, your cliild is not ac¬countable ; for carelessness let him be re¬proved ; for wilful neglect or disobediencelet him be whipped. Let your childrendearly understand that you punish themnot to gratify your own humour, but to per¬form a necessary though painful duty tothem, and that you chasten them becauseyou love them. Neither promise, northreaten at random. What you promise,punctually perform; what you threatenrigorously indict. Let not your child say inhis heart, ‘ My father deceives me.’ I knowyou too well to suppose that you would beguilty of the meanness of a lie in your in¬tercourse with your equals, but I fear youhave not been accustomed to be so nicelyscrupulous in your management of yourchildren ; and yet you cannot commit agreater error than to tell them an untruth.If, for your own convenience, you fall in¬to a habit of alarming thew into obedienceby frightful stories or other falsehoods, theywill not fail to find out the deceit, andthey will learn both to i/witate and despiseyou. All trick and cunning in education isdetestable. Children, after the age of in¬fancy, become rational creatures. Your twoolder children are old enough in wmny in¬stances to be governed by reason. Letthew*learn to respect your judgment, as well as15to leverence your authority. But in exact¬ing obedience ivom the youngest, it isenough to say, ‘ This wust be done becauseyour father cowhands it, and he knowswhat is best for you.’ Be particularlycareful to show no preference to one childwore than another, except on account ofgood conduct. A favourite is always un¬happy. 11 is tew per is spoiled both by thefoolish fondness of his parents, and the en¬vious resentwent of his little companions.Above all things, teach your children to re¬member their Creator and Redeemer in thedays of their youth. Let religion be thefoundation of all their actions. 1 .et themlearn to feel that they are constantly in theview’ of an all-seeing eye, and that the verythoughts of their heart are naked and openbefore Him. In inculcating these duties,never forget that example is better thanprecept. What you teach your children,be careful to practise yourselves. Youwish to see them perform with fidelity allthe religious, moral, and personal duties ;set before them, then, a pattern of thoseduties in your own conduct.”16THE BROKEN BRIDGE,Or, hints for keeping Good Roads.While Mrs Mason was enjoying the kindhospitality of Gowan-brae, in order togratify the boys, it was proposed, that thewhole faw/ily should accompany her toGlenburnie, on an Irish car, a vehicle welladapted to such excursion, and which wasconsequently a great favourite with theyounger part of the family. Just as theyfinished an early dinner,the car was broughtto the door. Robert, the eldest boy beggedleave to drive, and, vaulting into his properstation, seized the reins; and, after twogentle strokes with the whip, prevailed onold grey to move forward, which he didvery sagaciously, with less speed than cau¬tion, until they reached the turnpike road,where he mended his pace into a sober trot,which in less than two hours brought themto the road that turns in to the Glen, orvalley of Glenburnie.The road, which winded along the footof the hills on the north side of the Glen,owed as little to art as any country road in•r •/the kingdom. It was very narrow, andmuch encumbered by loose stones, broughtdown from the hills above by the wintertorrents. “ How little trouble would itcost,” said Mr Stewart, “ to throw the17smaller of these loose stones into these holesand ruts; and to rewove the larger ones tothe side, where they would fom a fencebetween the road and the hill! There areenough of idle boys in the Glen to effectall this, by working at it for one hour a-week during the suwwer. But then theirfathers wust unite in setting thew to work ;and there is not one in the Glen whowould not sooner have his horses lawed,and his carts torn to pieces, than have hisson employed in a work that would benefithis neighbours as much as himself!”At the foot of a short precipice, the roadagain wade a sudden turn, and discoveredto thew a misfortune which threatened toput a stop to their proceeding any further,for the present evening. It was no otherthan the overturn of a cart of hay, oc¬casioned by the breaking down of a bridge,along which it had been passing.At first indeed, neither boy nor horsewere seen ; but as Mr Stewart advanced toexamine whether, by removing the hay,which partly covered the bridge, and part¬ly hung suspended on the bushes, the roadwight still be passable, he heard a child’svoice in the hollow, exclaiming, “ Come on,ye wuckle brute ! ye had as weel come on!I’ll gar ye ! I’ll gar ye! That’s a gude beastnow ; come awa ! That’s it! Ay, ye’re agude beast now.”1/18As the last words were uttered, a littlefellow, of about ten years of age, was seenissuing from a hollow, and pulling after hiw,with all his wight, a great long-backedcluwsy aniwal of the horse species, thoughapparently of a very mulish temper.“ Fo« //ave met with a sad accident."said Mr Stewart; “how did all tins hapjien?"“ You man sec how it happened plainenoughl returned the hoy ‘ the brig brain,and the cart couppet.“ And did you ami the horse coup lilie-wise ?” said Mr Stewart.O ay, tee a' couppet thegether, for I wasridin' on his bach."“ And where is your father, and all therest of the folk V“ Whar sud they be but in the hay-Held!Dinna ye ken that we're fakin' in our hay 1John 'ramson's and Jamie Forster's wasin a tvook syne; but we're aye ahint thelave."Having learned from the boy thatthe hay field was at no great distance,gave him some half pence to hasten his speed,and promised to take care of his horse tillhe should return with assistance.He soon appeared, followed by hisfather and two otner men, who came onstepping at their usual pace, “ IVhy, farmer."said Mr Stewart, “ you have trusted rathertoo long to this rotten plank, I think,"(jiomting to where it had given way)', “Ifyou remember, the last time I passed thisroad, which was several months since, Ithen told you that the bridge was in dan¬ger, and shewed you how easily it mightbe repaired V'“ It is a' true," said the farmer, metvinghis bonnet; “but I thought it wmld doweel enough. I spoke to Jamie Fosterand John Tamson about it; but they saidthey wadna fash to mend a brig that wasto serve at the folk in the Glen."“ But you must now mend it for your own sake,”said Mr Stewart, “ even though a’ the folk in the Glenshould be the better for it.“ Ay, Sir,” said one of the men, “ that’s spokenlike yoursel’! would everybody follow your example,there would be nothing in the world but peace andgood neighbourhood. Only tell us what we are todo, and I’ll work at your bidding, till it bepit mirk.”“Well,” said Mr Stewart, “ bring down the planksthat I saw lying in the barn-yard, and which, thoughyou have been obliged to step over them every daysince the stack they propped was taken in, have neverbeen lifted. You know what I mean?"“ O yes, Sir,” said the farmer, grinning, “ we kenwhat ye mean weel eneugh : and indeed I may ken,for I have fallen thrice owre them since they laythere, and often said they Slid be set by ; but wecu’dna he fash'd.”While the fanner, with one of the men, went up,taking the horse with them, for the planks in ques¬tion, all that remained set to work, under Mr Stewart's20direction, to remove the hay, and clear, away therobbish ; Mrs Mason and Mary being the only idlespectators of the scene. In little more than half anhour the pbmks were laid, and covered %eith sod, cutfrom the bank, and the bridge now only wanted ^little gravel, to make it as good as new. This addi¬tion, however, was not essential toward rendering itpassable For the car, which was conveyed over insafety ; but Mr Stewart, forseeing the consequencesof it remaining in this unfinished state, urged theFanner to complete the job on the present evening,,and at the same time promised to reimburse him Forthe expence. The only answer he could obtain was,‘r Ay, ay, we’ll do’t in time; but I’se warrant i(7l dowed enough.”DOMESTIC MANAGEMENT.The aspect of the dwelling where Mrs Mason wasto fix her residence, was by no means inviting. Thewalls were substantial: built, like the houses in thevillage, of stone and lime; but they were blackenedby the mud which the cart-wheels had spatteredfrom the ruts in winter, and on one side of the doorcompletely covered from view by the contents of agreat dunghill. On the other, and directly underthe window, M as a squashy pool, formed by the dirtywater thrown from the house and in it about twentyyoung ducks w ere at this time dabbling. Their en¬trance in was further interrupted by the great whey-pot, which had stood since morning, when the cheesehad been made, and was at the present moment filledwith chickens, who were busily picking at the bits ofcurd, which had hardened on the sides, and cruellymocked their wishes. Over this Mr Stewart andMrs Mason unfortunately tumbled but the accident21was attended with no farther bad comecjiient'o's, thanli little hurt upon the skin ; and all our party werent;tv assembled in the kitchen ; but though theyfound the doors of the house open, they saw no ap¬pearance of any inhabitants. At length Mrs Mae-Clarty came in, all out of breath, followed by herdaughters, two big girls of eleven and thirteen yearsof age. She welcomed Mrs Mason and her friendswith great kindness, and made many apologies forbeing in no better order to receive them ; and im¬mediately fell to busying herself in sweeping in thehearth, and adding turf to the fire, in order to makethe kettle boil for tea.“ I think,” said Miss Mary, “you might make yourdaughters save you that trouble looking at the twogirls, who stood all this time leaning against the walk“ O poor things," said their mother, “they have notbeen used to it; they have eneugh o’ time for war k yeti”“Depend upon it,” said Mrs Mason, “young peoplecan never begin too soon; your eldest daughter therewill soon be as tall as yourself.”“ Indeed she’s of a stately growth,” said MrsMacCl.irty, pleased with the observation; “ andJenny there is little ahint her ; but what are theybut bairns yet, for a’that! In time, I warrant, they’lldo weel eneugh. Meg can milk a cow as well as Ican do, when she likes.”“ And does she not alwsys like to do all she can?”said Mrs Mason.“ O we maunna complain,” returned the mother,“ she does weel eneugh.(While Mrs MacClarty was preparing tea for herguest, Sirs Mason cast her exploring eye on thehouse and furniture. She soon saw, that the placethey were in served in the triple capacity of kitchen,parlour, and bed-room. Its furniture wras suitablyabundant and Mrs [MacClarty prided herself muchon the noble stock of linen she possest, but which^ | *Mrs Mason thought too fine for common use. “ Forcommon use!” cried Mrs A/acClarty “na, na, we’reno sic fools as put our napery to use ! I have a dizentableclaiths in that press, thirty y< rs old, that werenever laid upon a table. They are a’ o' my mother’sspinning. I have nine o’ my ain makin’ forby, thatnever saw the sun but at the bookin washing.“ It is no doubt a good thing,” said Mrs Mason," to have a stock of goods of any kind, provided onehas a prospect of turning them to account; but 1think a towel of nice clean huck-a-buck wouldwipe a cup as well, and better, than a damask napkin.”“ Towels !” cried Mrs MacClarty, ‘ na, na, wemaunna pretend to towels ; we just wipe up thethings wi what comes in the gait.”On saying this, the good woman, polled out frombetween the seed-tub and her husband’s dirty shoes,a long blackened rag, and with it rubbed one of thepewter plates, with which she stepped into the closetfor a roll of butter. “ There,” says she, “ I am sureye’ll say, that ye never ate better butter in your life.There’s no in a’ the Glen better kye than ours Ihope ye’ll eat heartily ; and I’m sure ye’re heartilywelcome."Here, thought she, is a home, in which peace andplenty seem to reign ; and yet these blessings, whichI thought invaluable, will not be sufficient to affordme any comfort, from the mere want of attention tothe article of cleanliness. Of the two girls she couldnot judge favourably. The elder appeared moroseand sullen, and the younger stupid and insensible.She was confirmed in her opinion by observing, thatthough their mother had several times desired themto go to the field for their father, neither of themstirred a step.“ Yell gang, I ken, my dear,”’ said Mrs Mac¬Clarty, addressing her sal f to the younger ; " O ay,I ken yc‘11 gang like a gude bairn, Jean."23Jean looked at ber sister ; and Mrs .’/atClartv,ashamed of their disobedience, but still -wiiling topalliate the faults which her own indulgence hadcreated, said, “ that indeed tliey never liked to leaveher, poor things ! they were so bashful; but that illtime tliey would do weel enough."‘‘ The)' will never do well, if they disobey theirmother," said Mr Stewart: "you ought to teach1 your children to obey you, Mrs 3/acClarcy, for theirsakes as well as for your own. Take my word for it,that if you don't, they, as well as you, will suffer fromthe consequences. But come, boys, we shall go tothe field ourselves, and see how the farmer's workI goes on."Mr? A/acClkrty, glad of this proposal, went to thedoor to point the way. Having received her direc¬tions, Mr Stewart, pointing to the pool at the thres¬hold, asked her how she could bear to have such dir¬ty doors ? ‘‘ Why does not your husband fetch a stonefrom the quarry ?" said he. “ People who are farfrom stones and from gravel may have some excuse ;but you have the materials within your reach, and byhalf a day's labour could have your door made cleanand comfortable. How then can you have gone onso long with it in this condition ?"" Indeed, I kenna, sir," said Airs AfacClarty ; "thegudeman just canna be fash'd."" And cannot you be fash'd to go to the end of thehouse to throw out your dirty water ? don't you seehow small a drain would from that carry it down theriver, instead of remaining here to stagnate, and tosuffocate you with intolerable stench ?“ '" O, we're just used to it," said Mrs AfacClarty,“ and we never mind it. We cou'dna be fash'd togang sae far wi' a' the slaistery."" But what," returned Mr Stewart, '• will MrsMason think of all this dirt ? She has been used tosee things in a very different sort of order, and af you■will be advised by her, she will put you upon such amethod of doing every thing about your house, as )will soon give it a very different appearance.Mrs Mason did indeed feel herself very uncom- •for table amidst so much disorder and filth—and wasdetermined to effect a change if possible. It was fewith much difficulty she could obtain from MrsMacClarty the assistance of Grizzy, to make her ownappartment comfortable : the stout girl fell to work,and when the lower vallenee was removed, it dis- iplayed a scene most extraordinary ;—a hoard of theremains of the old shoes that had ever been worn by |any member of the family ; staves of broken tubs,ends of decayed ropes, and other articles all coveredwith blue mould and dust.Mrs Mason perceiving what an unpleasant task sheshould be obliged to impose on her assistant,deemed herself in justice bound to recompense herfor her trouble; and, holding out half a half-crownpiece, told her, that if she performed all she required Iof her, it should be her own. No sooner was Grizzy Imads certain of the reward, than she proceeded towash the bed posts with soap and water. Afterwhich the chairs, the tables, the clock-case, the verywalls of the room, as well as every thing it contained,all underwent a complete cleaning.The window, in which were nine tolerably Itirre panes of glass,was no stioner rendered transparent, than Crrizzy cried out in ecstaey.“ that she coud’na have thought it would have made sic a change.Dear me. I how heartsome it looks now, to what it use’t!” saidthe girl, her spirit rising in proportion to the exertion of her activity,“ And in hvw short a time has it been cleaned?” said Mrs Mason.“ Vet had it been regularly cleaned oncea-week, as it ought to have Ibeen, it would have cost far less trouble. By the labour of a wirute ’or two, we may keep it constantly bright; and surely few days passit' which so much time may not be spared. Let us now go to the lkitchen window, and make it likewise ciean. Grizzy with alacrity |obeyed. Bat before the window could be approached, it was foundnecessary to remove the heap of dusty articles piled up in the |window sill, which served the purpose of family library, and reposi¬tory of what is known by the term odds and ends.