THE LIFE OFRICHARD TURPIN,HOST mflllOW ttlWATMAN,GIVING A PARTICULAR ACCOUNTor ALL HIS'flOTO BuoiTOtoa 28001 airft >o snoitwianei; a uTDARING ROBBERIES AND BURGLARIES,II .dlfflj U OJ eJ0OIVO*f(J 'i ffi> ilftOfflIf ni -A /xofiH te mod e&w ixiqwT hjsdhiSTRIAL, EXECUTION, BURIAL, &c.Ujpnis'I TaftB ,bae ; aoitefuqw •lijsl js ittivr ,'XGifoiudoibc- ie emit IsnieuiriW ai ledoJudsid to! ; 9nn2JiLciind eitt idliJoidvi .ioohnoo_ii 'stno isq09 I'uiifv .vynorajg-JAiuji. osjuisupofi o/njGLASGOW lied anoBfiboiFOR THE BOOKSELLERS..!£PRINTED: Jr’.MIIRUfMAHaillOF'RiCEfARO o TORRIlf ATTIOOOOA RAJ J;' IHA^ A BWITiaiih jj* iqThe transactions of this most notorious offends■ amada a greater moiae ip ?f a!most any other malefactor previous to his time.Richard Turpin was born at Hampstead, in E( rsex, where W!* *fattiher followed the occupation of iffbutcher, with a fair reputation ; and, after being tbusual time at schoolbutcher in Whitechitime ; for his masterfor the brutalityconduct, which wq£g|Q$!as bound apprentice to tdid not serve out hied him from his housi 'ftts impropriety of hij|ast diminished by hparents’ improper supplying him wil rmoney, which encut a swell round tltown among the bl»3s of tnj| road and turf, whoied to^heep,company he affemg that marriagibring him overed him to miPalmer, a youngHam, in Essibefore he fe'St-His friends thin, fe'ement in life, worn ft tpilar courses, persuaijl0 did, with one Hestflsllecent family, at Ea|(iSjbeen married loiagain, and sobecame acquainted with a gang of thieves, whcdepredations territled ;i&fc j4)Ple county of^Essq 1andthe spoils was not sufficient, it appears,.share,supp•mmg to footpad jobbery, and was at last otaliged tofly from his place of residence for stealing a youngheifer, which he killed and cut up for sale. So ohafter this, he stole two oxen from One Farmer Giles,lof Plaistow, and drove them to a butcher’s slaugh-i tering-house near Waltham Abbey. Giles’s ser-f vants came to this place' in pursuit of the cattle,i where finding two carcases cut up, thfit answeredii the description of their master’s property in size,[ i«id shrewdly suspecting Turpin, who did not denyi oeing the owner of the goofis, they made a stricti search after the skins, and haying found them, theyi lad not the smallest doubt of his having stolen thei identical head ed beasts -which they were in searchif. No doubt regaining who was the robber, as warrant was procured for his apprehension; but hei Soon got scent that the runners were; in pursuit oft dm. He made liis escape out of the window ofhe house where he was, just at the moment theyrvere entering the door. Finding his'situatjpnliValtham ^.hqey rather perilous, ho retreated intoSUPIM feopey he hit upon a new schemesupport himself; afld th^t was to rob the smug¬glers he happened to meet with on the road ; bute took cajp not to attack a gang, oply such solitary"veuers as fell in his way, and then he did it withmr of justice, for Up constantly pretended tof aye a deputation from thd Ppstews, and sq .tppkr property m the ^g’§ n^mp Hp got tnedag » wlul« •> ^ the re-rement to which hg condemned, in this m?m, Mt gnjting the volatility of his dispositipn, hem ^ tfee ’Wlth whom ho had te-M ^hnpcted,4t*l» % principal ofril^me^tipnj werp copWte^ uppn Upping Fpreat»d the adjacent parte; But this buemeee not »uc-4Jrfeeding to their expectations, they determined to Is■commence house-breakers, and in this they ▼ere'much encouraged by joining with Gregory’s gang,as it was then called: a company of desperadoesthat made the Essex and adjacent roads very dan¬gerous to travel. They formed themselves into abody by Turpin’s directions, and went round thecountry at night, and whatever house they knewhad any value m it they marked. Their method.!was, one to knock at the door, when, as soon as itwas openpd, the rest rushed in and plundered ; and;such was their imprudence and rapacity, that theywere not satisfied with jthe money they found, plate,watches, or rings, but even took away the house¬hold goods, if any suited them^^ iduob oK 1Somehow or other Turpin became acquainted;with the circumstances of an old woman who lived!at Loughton, who always kept a great quantity ofready cash by her: whereupon he and his gangagreed to rob her ; and when they came to the door,Wheeler knocked at it, and Turpin and the restforcing their way into the house, blindfolded theold woman and her maid, tied the legs of her son,,a well-grown lad, to the bedstead, and proceeded!to rob the house ; but not at first finding the wish-od-for booty, they all set about a consultation what ;i.to do to get at it; for they were certain she must:have a considerable sum concealed in the house.,Turpin began to examine her, where her moneyand effects were hid ; telling her, at the same time,,thslt he knew she had money, and it was in vain todeny it, for have it he would. The old gentle¬woman being Very loath to part with her money,,persisted in it that she had none, and would not de¬clare any thing more of the matter; tipon whichijorae of the gang were inclined to believe her, and!t<R1 were sorry for their disappointment; but Tur¬pin m strewnously insisting she had monty, as she5i that she had none, at last, with horrid oaths andI iiraprecations, swore he would put her on the firfe.'i She continued obstinate for all that, imagining hemeant only to threaten her ; and so very fond waSihe of her darling gold, that she even suffered her¬self to be served as he had declared, and endured itfor some time; till the anguish at last forced her:o make a discovery, which, when she had done,they took her off the grate1, and robbed her of allthey could find. '. The next place they robbed was a farmer’s atRipple-Side, near Barking; where the peddle off ihe house not coming to the door as soon as-theywanted them, they broke it open. They first 6f all,ncording to their old scheme, gagged1, tied, andblindfolded all they found in the place capable ofi opposing them ; and then robbed the hodse of £700,iikhich delighted Turpin so much, that he exclaim-bd, “Aye, this is the thing!” “ That’s your sort forti&he rag, (a cant term, for money,) tf it would bfit•ast!" And they safely retired with their prize,iivhich amounted to 801. a man. This robbery wisCommitted in the beginning of the year 1730. Thisi;success so much flushed Turpin and his associates,• :;hat several others joined them, insomuch that they; became a formidable crew, and many tihies', whentogether, defied the legal authority of the magis-rates ; and their adroitness was such that they es-cfaped detectioil for many months.11 •Some little time after, they determined to att&ckhe house of Mr Mason, the keeper of Epping For-*ist, Who waii pitched upon to feel the effects of their•esenttnent for his former vigilance in disturbingikheir poaching incursions into his district. Batr Turpin Was not concerned in this-affair ; ft* lie hap-aipened at that time to he in London, When, drink¬ing too freely, he forgot his appointment; but the<j|ob was done without him, by'Rust, ROfee, andseEieldar got ov^r a ^aU an(l broka m backwardWhen, Ipttmg m his comp^ious, they proceeded totheir bwwaess. klr J^aseM yas ^t home, sitting up byt^e fir© in bis bed-room, with his father, an agp<5g^ptJem^. ^gi^jn^ps of tying tfibifhwds aai4 feqt» they asiman if he kneirthem: but answering he id not, they carried hinjidown into the kitchen, and put him under the dres¬ser. , Mr Mason bad a sack forced over his head,.'Swap’s absence fromthis expedition was a, yery unfortunate circumstance1■to tfio forest-keeper’s family, for they proceeded tpgreater lengths ifl he wou.lchaw permitted tfiem, had ha been present; as hwas always satisfied with plunder, without addincruelty to oppression. They now went up stair?and braky eyory article of formtuve in the houseThe china, and glas? ;nade a dreadful ringing ,Tohairsdray^ra,posts i while the hoifo gftrppts,.witboutawmersfr WhjRtttthorn but little, thu V1'^ sfttw;▼enge; and ttw yculd b^ye r?tirpd wit;single guinea, ha&j* ’wwok ef eiffsf-thm % china pu^w* |he way, upon upp^jjlirs were piled upon the lire ; looking-glasse]WWfoJuadrtifeK were heat, to pieces with bee•'B*wa Qdt fif \% dropL i,dares, Which they picked upj.n1!^ retifethey had denp-aa much mischief asyouid, and gnt^afo #> no doubt y<pJ«th th# wrej^ iffatgiifttion they fobthen took the road |0 .Jjondun ; npdi^¥hit«flhnp«h they met Turpi#, wf2 Suiuc?S *0 mo.W+ % tin %n|v>m b Repou-iwys, wh«» tfMfAK# the booty, yhioh prowl the flW «4w,“ There ifl hoaour among thieves,” though he hadnet taken any afitiya part in the exa^tjoft ofc theijllMIL iuo OT*s ili((XF) adi yjib :The oeit robbery Of oote they coweitted erasabout seven or eight o’sjftpk ip the ev,onit»g- RustTurpin, Fielder, WaUfiar, apd three other#, came tothe house of Mir- $aasder8» ft wealthy farmer, atCharlton, in Keut, and huoching. at the door, in¬quired if Mr. Saunders Fas home, being an¬swered be was, and the dpon opened, they all rush¬ed in, went directly to, the parlour, where Mr.launder#, his wife, and seine friends, were at cards.They de-iced them not to he. frightened, for that theywould not hurt their persons, if they sat still, ammade no disturbance- The first thing they laichandg, on, was a silver snufi'-hox, which lay uponthe table before them; and hayiug. secured theI'ust-tof the company, obliged Mr. Saunders to goehoufethe house with them, and open bis closets,hfljes, and escritoiro, from whence they took up¬wards of one hundred pounds in money, and ailtiie plate in the honse, a velvet hood, mantle, andother things. Whilst this was doing, the servantmaid got loose, and ran up stairs, barred herself inone of the rooms, and called out of the windowfor ashatanca, iu'hqpfis of alarming the neighbour¬hood ; but one of the rogues ran un stairs afterher, and with a poker broke open the door ; brpughther down again, bound her, and all the rest of thefamily ; then they rifled the house of divers otherthings of valqe, and finding, in their search, somebottles of wine, a bottle of brandy, and soma mince-pies, they all sat down, drank a bottle of wine, atemines pie, and obliged the company to drink agiaas of b.rftftdy each. Mrs. Saunders fainting awayWith th» fright, they gpt her a glass of water, andputtiag sMne drapt r* it, gar* it t» her, and irare▼ary capful to recorer her. They staid a consider¬able time in the house, after feasting, and packingop their bootj ; and when they departed, they de¬clared, that if any of the family gave out the leastalarm within two hours, or even advertised themarks of the plate they had taken, they would re¬member them for it, for they would return andmurder them at a future time. This robbery wasconcerted at the George at Woolwich, from whencethey proceeded to put their design in execution;and when they had effected it, they crossed thewater, and brought their goods to an empty housein Ratcliffe Highway, provided for them by oneof Dick Swift’s acquaintance, where they depositedtheir plunder, and divided the produce.They next proceeded into Surrey, where Turpin,Rust, Swift, Fielder, and Walker, robbed MrSheldon’s house, a lone building, near CroydonChurch, where they arrived about seven o’clock inthe evening. They began their operations here bysecuring the coachman in the stable attending thehorses, whom they bound hand and foot, and after¬wards locked him safe in. His master being inan out-house, and hearing some strange voices inthe yard, was proceeding that way to know thocause, when he was met by Turpin and Walker,who seizing hold of him, compelled him to showthem the way into the house, which, when theyhad got into, they secured the door, and confinedthe rest of the family in one room, over which,within and without* they set a guard. Mr Shel¬don’s servant man unluckily coming to tho doorfrom abroad, was first knocked down, and thendragged into the passage and tied, while they ran¬sacked the house. But they were very much dis¬appointed •, for they found but little plate, and nooaah. From Mr Sheldon’s person they took elevenguineas ; two of which Turpin returned him, beg-ging pardon for what they had done, and wishedhim a good night.These robberies had hitherto been carried on en-tirpiy on foot, with only the occasional assistanceof a hackney coach ; but now they aspired to ap¬pear on horseback, for which purpose they hiredhorses at the Old Leaping Bar in High Holborn,from whence they set out about two o’clock in theafternoon, and arrived at the Queen’s-Head, nearStaumore, at five, where they staid to regale them¬selves. It was by these means that Wood, themaster of the house) had so good an opportunityI of observing the horses, as to remember the tamoI again when he saw them afterwards in King-street,I Bloomsbury, where they were taken. About fiveo’clock they went from Mr Wood’s, at the Queen’s; Head, to Stanmore, and staid there from six untilabout seven o’clock, and then all went away toge-I ther to Mr Laurence’s, which was about a milefrom thence, where they arrived about half anhour after seven. Mr Laurence had just beeri paying off some workmen, who were discharged1 and gone froip the house. On their arrival at Mri- Laurence’s they alighted from their horses at the|( outer gate ; and Fielder getting over the hatch in-|to the sheep-yard, met with Mr Laurence’s boy,«just putting up some sheep. They seized and pre-(3 seated a pistol to him, Fielder saying he wouldIslioot him if he offered to cry out; and then took off(the boy’s garters, and tied his hands, inquiringIwhat servants Mr Laurence kept, and who was inthe house, which they obliged him to tell them.They told him they would not hurt him, but thathe must go to the door with them ; and when theyknocked at it, if any body within should ask whoit was, that the boy was to answer, and bid them■ open the door to let him in, and they would give him■onie tnoner. According they lei the boy ttf tftfe'door; bbt he vafe sb terrifWd thb* he h*»} tfbt povrhi-to speak ; whereupon Gregory knobfced ait the dWf,and calling out Mr LAtirfedcei the man servant,supposing it to be settle Of tM Heighfcotffe tklk,opened the door, upon which they all hushed iftwith pistols in their hands, cryiiig dttt, With hd^hiflimprecktion^, Uoitj l&Ag have j/om ttv&tl Iffl-c ? ahdseizing Mh Laurence and hi^ man,- 'thhdW & dothorer their feces; hid thou took the bbyt «fldhim into the b^it rObtrl, with his hafedft tied, de¬manding 6f hiih What fire-arms Mr LaM-ench hadin the hbbse ; ahd being told there W^s hotifi Billan old gull; they Went atld fetched lhat; hfiditete pieced; thefl tbbft Mr lihTSflftnhd’d tdftiJ SBflbinding his hands, led him into the room wherethe b'Oy was, and made Mrd tit doWh thft-d; ithfliiie boui^i Mr Laurent. Turpwr'is#' ddwn hftbreeches; arid they fell to rifling hid pockOtd; outof which they took onb guinea, One Portugal pieceof thirty-six shillings, about fiftibii shillings in sil¬ver, arid hid keys. They said that iriOneyivas notenough* that they mtist have more, find drove MrLaurence tip stairs ; where coming tb hi clbset, al¬though they had taken the key firofri Mr Laul-encebefore, and had in it their custody; yet they broke1opeti the door, knd took out from thence two gui¬neas, ten shillings in silver, a silver ctip, thirteen srl-^dr spodfis, tWb gdld rings; Aftd VnSt ftidy bdriMfihd; and in their search mCetirig wiih a brittle ofolder WiWe, thby bhliged the ^dryahts to drink twiceOf it. Tfe«y brodght Mr LaUrridGc deM stairsagain-, dfld threSlraefepW^ftit Bffl thrOdt; SUif RfitSgrit a knife to it, Uis if he intended tb do it, W rfiakehim confess What money was id the hoHsfc Ode iffthem took a Ohdppihf-b'ill, arid threateried tb ctHoff his % TMfmii broke hife hekd Hrilh tfteifpistols, and dra-ged him about by the hkir Of th€r'llhm. mom ct them took a Settle 6t witer ofitbe fire, arid flting it upon him ; but it did no otherharm than SguC Bj reason the maid toad’ drisit trbfdW Ebon out the greatest part of the boil-form them -fthere the' rest of his money was hid.They then proceeded to make further search ; and1 found 201. in a chest, which, with, plate, linen, <fcc.1 ftipV ncwdro/i ntS • flipn InidirAil'alf fiiA npcnlfi* in tllAthey packed up; then locked all the people in theparlour, and swore they would shoot every one theyuaiiuux, ixuu. aYvuic lukjj wuuau. ojuyvu ^voxjt v* irJfound loose, when they returned, which would beiluiai Ma OOr (Uiniiuern 1in half ah hour.t-arnr1®®^0!! of.VY y, vyrrum JjTTi'W' '^rrb'Tuv' < Jf? o%^d toany of the party who would injpeach his accompli¬ces. This, however, had rip effect, for they con¬tinued their depredations with more systematic in¬genuity, and,at such, distances that nope could be■ aware of their approach. The success they metwith elated their spirits, and encouraged them tohi'd defiance to the executive laws of the country..the inouth of danger, and in the midst of alarm'which their audacities had occasipped, Turpin and; Ids gangj were as careless as they were heedless.The White Hart, at the upper end of DrorJ-Lane,j was thW plapp pf rendezvous. Here they .plannedj their nightly visits, and_there divided theiy nightlyi -poll, and spent the property they unlawfully acqui-jreq,, The;g3^ft0i'this time qonsistod of a great num-;her, from the hold adventurer on horseback, to theijnitiful stripper of cliildrlen’s clothes. From hence‘there issued a select band to rob a Mr Francis, a far-TT J1VJA M cnwv/wu •ml while they were making their observations onione,12one of them perceiving somebody *nthe cbwhouse, they went in, and finding a manthere, they seized and bound him, swearing theyWould shoot him if he made any attempt to loose/-vl ■I’’ z-X *• »1 il-, z-.  ^ zl zx X /-x XV> ihimself,, or cry out.tJ^ ’They then proceeded to theStable, where was another of the fa,rmer’s servants,Iwnom they served in the same manner. Scarce had‘they perfofriifed tjns/'before Mr Fmncis, who hadI'inrjn Cl 11 /»Arvi'iri«V lirvwvn -nm o o reo+zvbeeh abrottd, coming home, was met at the gate, ins he was going up to his door. Three of the gangf.Jy.i - - 1 ■' ■ nwuMllaying their hands upon his shoulder, prevented himfrom going any farther ; and the farmer not at firstapprehending them to he thieves, hut frolicsomeMlows, only said to them, “ Methinks you are migh¬ty funny, gemmen.” On which, showing their pis¬tols, they told him no harm should come to him, if'he would give one of them an order to his daughterfof* one hundred pounds in cash, which Mr Fran¬cis refused to do, alleging his incapability, not hav¬ing half so much money by him ; they forced himby the arm into the gtable to bis man, where theybound him also, and left them under the care ofliust and Bush, who stood over them with loaded!pistols, whilst the rest went to the house. Uponknocking at the door, Miss Francis opened it, sup¬posing it to he some of the men, when Wheeler andijfour others rushing in, they secured her also. Tur¬pin coining in with the last, prevented them frombeing too’Wdlohf'with the young lady ; only threat¬ening,If she made ally resistance, she would beWorse nsfcd. The maid-serVant hearing this, criedout, Lord, Mrs Sarah, what have you do'he ? On)which Mffe of them struck the maid, and another iMiss Francis', and swore they would murder them Id# they did not hold their peace. Mrs Francis hear- jmg the disturbance, and being apprehensive of somedanger; cried out. Lord, What’s the matter? Onwhich Fielder stepped up to her, and cried, “ D—bso auoiiewtesrfo ■norfi gubtsm omw v™e u;.jou for an old b—h. I’ll stop your mouth present-| T ly,;” aad immediately broke her head with the ban-.'idle o£ his whip; and then tied her down in a chair,i bleeding as she was. The maid and daughter were; bound ip the kitchen, and Gregory was set to watchi theip, who stood over them with a pistol in his hand,to prevent their crying out for assistance or endea¬vouring to get their liberty, whilst the other fouri were rifling the house. In it they found, thirty-i seven guineas, and ten pounds in silver, which they; took away with them; as also several articles ofj 'viHery, plate, linen, &c. When they came to di-jjilivpio. the plunder, Turpin prevented them fromi cheating one another, which some seemed inclined- to do ; and he gave to each of them, £9 2s. 6d. The[i |j guineas were secreted by him that had laid handsKon them, from the rest of his companions, which,when Turpin afterwards found out, he made him1 pay severely for ; for he informed against him to theofiicers of justice, which occasioned his being takenup, and he was soon afterwards hanged at Tyburn.They formed a design to rob Justice Asher, near),] Xveigfl, in Essex, but were interrupted by some■ f neighbouring fanners; their attempt became knowniand their daring conduct alarmed the whole coun¬try, nobody thinking themselves safe ; upon whichMr Thompson one of the King’s forest-keepers,went to the Duke of Newcastle’s office, and obtain¬ed his Majesty’s promise of a reward of £100, forwhoever should apprehend any of them. This‘ made them rather more shy than they were before ;■3»1 ber of theip usually met at an alehouse in an alleyJi| in Westminster, they went thither, where finding1 Turpip, Fielder, Rose, and Wheeler, after a short!| $>nflict with cutlasses, the three laet were secured;14Mt sot tiil one Bob. Berry, a cork^dtftttfr, had Kiiarm dang^reifefy 6i» acrbss a littite brtbW Brt elb<^.Boring the scnffle, TtJfpin ihide Ms esca|ie out :bfa window; end getting a hbrse, tode away iitimediately. Wheeler totted evidence, and the two otherswere hanged in. chain*.'' Thte hffair broke up thegang. Turpih being ndW left hifesfelf, had rhoreprudence than tb' fblld# tfafe hoiise-robbing imme¬diately after, particularly as he WaS so Well known ;arfd havififg soihe tttohbf in his pockets, he tbbk-aresolution to be concerned With no other gahg, bdttb act entirely on his- own botthhi. With this viewhe set off to Carrihridge, Which he jildged wouldhe the best place; US htf W&Fof the bountiy. Near Alton he met with ah odd en’-4ovmtbr, whicli got Mth the b&# bbihpaitdh fib hfer■had; hs he Oftbh declared. King,-the Mglrpyfnan,as he was returhihg ffbnf ffi?S bided Lo836#(,being well drbSSfed add ffibhnt^d; Tufbiri' Whhave the appearahee of 'a ShlbftaftttM gghtlhimliV,rode hf> to Itiha, and thinking liirii d fdir ftikfk, hidhim stand arid deliver, and therewith producingthe t/iMffl (i. h. plSfofSJ 'KiHg fell a laiighiiig athim, and Said, “ What, dog rob dbg! cbmc, come,brother Tutpin, if you don’t know me, I know vdti,fihd ShdMd be gfSdfylJyMff ttmpanv.” After a nin-ill foitririe as the tPairfp^ irilgbt trim rip. in facKiilg wSS tfud to .fifm WMhlbrb than yettfi; ffitri- ifing Ml hiS fate bya bkH m Ihe r$td. Thb'y varioris fbrturio;but Wing k»tfi te6 ^bl! krib# feieMib fofig'W;*pUfee, arid aS nb hbtise that krihw thdiri Would re-dMtb theft itiit.thby formed theMblution bf mak¬ing thferiiMVSs a bake, bokered with hakiftS anddrirth. Arid fdr that purpose pitchM dfabn a cbh^vefthfit pMBb, d»M« With a thfdfcet, SMattd Wf•UJI Kfng’fc (M. Here they eliafated, and covered!J(#Kh thicket, wood, 4nd quicitdt, a place largei feouffh Id receive thefti and tbeir iorSes: and whilettot la!y dfaite concealed themselves, conld, through-iil—» t..iui     •  several holes, discover the passengers as they wentalong the road ; and as they thought proper, wouldissue out, and rob them in such hold and daringstyle, that they were more admired than planned.the Very higglers on the road did not always escapeithelif fedtii§tions;; but they were mostly rejpaidngdih; whilst thii^ who went armed, lost theiri pieceh ttOhe Wourifled, and fobbed b^mm &mt thd*.|ger ; went to ma   .remamea ujecar¬eer ; went to marEet tor Victuals 1hdln With linen, and frequentlyVhold tveek at a time. In this pilere aWhole •Week at a time. In this place, Turpin lived,eat, drank, and lay, for the space of six years, dur-iiftg the first three of which he was enlivened by thei'drollfefy of his companion, Tom King, who was afellow of infinite humour in telling stories, and pfunshaken resolution in attack or defence; hut it isishp^osed he lost his life before a chaise, where hewas attempting to change his lead for gold. Thesjeiftftfet partribfs usbd frequently to issue frpm theitt&ll, like #e thid¥fe from the cave bi Gil)cen, iiEe tne ttneves trom tne ca’tfekh d ride out in buO^t of pluridc,. ,r, lii Sliffoih, they met fWb young women<1 just received a considerable sum for corn.xiiled to rob them ; Tiliade hlih from it, allegjfigi pretty inoffensive girls, find he woulhandful of silrer among them, pad made off; butthe same evening he changed his black one for achesnut mare, which he found in a field, and upon )her made the best of his way to the forest. He »next stopped a country gentleman, who clapping i<spurs to his horse, Turpin followed him, and fixing *a pistol after him which lodged two balls in hishorse’s buttocks, the gentleman was obliged to sur¬render. He robbed him of fifty shillings, asking]him if that was all, and the gentleman saying hehad no more, Turpin searched him, and found twoguineas more in his pocket book, out of which hereturned him 5s. but at the same time told the gen¬tleman it was more than he deserved, because ofhis intention to have cheated him.Turpin had gone on for a long time in a most 1notorious and defying way, stopping the mail andother coaches, and robbing them of their contentsand the reward for apprehending him had induced!many to attempt it. Amongst the rest was the}-:ranger, Thompson’s man. This fellow must,needsgo in company with a higgler. Turpin was un-fiarmed standing alone, and not knowing the man,took him for one poaching for hares, and told himi]he would get no hares near that thicket. “No,”says the fellow, “ but I have got a Turpin andlpresenting his piece at him, commanded him to;surrender. Turpin stood talking with him, and receding back to his cave, laid hold of his carbine,,and shot him dead, at which the higgler made off.This man’s death obliged Turpin to make off preci¬pitately; so he went further into the country inisearch of King ; and sent his wife a letter to meet vhim at a public-house in Hertford, who accordinglywent, with two of Squire H s’s servants..She waited for him about half an hour: and whe*|the came to the house, he asked for her by a fio- >titioas name, left on purpose. He seen found ah#1nr■ there ; aad geing to her through the kitehee,•aw a butcher to whom he owed £5. Thexher taking him aside, “ Come, Dick, (says he,)rould be of great service.” Turpin replied, hise was in the next room, she had money, and heaid get some of her, and pay him presently. Thei Icher apprised two or three that were present, o it was, and that he would get his £5 first, anda take him ; but Turpin, instead of going to his3, jumped out of the next window, took horse,went away immediately, without seeing her;le the butcher waited some time in expectationi eceiving his £5. Affairs wore a serious aspect» a while; and Turpin was forced to be very cauti-l|in his approaches to the metropolis,i Ling and Turpin being driven about, they joinedMi one Potter, a daring roadsman, who had aII horse. In his company they stopped severalj demen on horseback, and in post-chaises, fromm they levied considerable sums. Turpin, thefar to disguise himself, now wore sometimes as *r’s frock, quite white ; at other times he had a» k one on, like a waggoner. In this disguise,} upon a good horse, he ventured over the forest? jds London ; when, within about 300 yards of?'Green Man, he overtook one Mr Major, the' 3r of White Stockings the race horse; and, al-‘«gh they were so near the houses, Turpin ven->tl to rob him. He took from him his whip, andjng he had a better horse than his, made himMount, change, and stay till he had changedHites likewise, and then rode towards London,[iMajor got to the Green Man, and acquaintedjiBayes of it, who immediately said, “ I dare)liF it is Turpin has done it, or one of that crew,tit’ll endeavour to get intelligence of your horse,ki that they have left you, is stolen, and I vrtmld..4jyou advertise it.” This was accordingly done.tpA tile horse proved to h*wa been stolen inPkistotB Marshes; and tlie saddle which he bkept, vas stolen from one Arrowsmith. This rtbery was oomrpitted on Saturday night: and on tMonday following, Mr Bayes received intelligeithat such a hqrse, is, Mr Major had lost, wap leftthe Ijfd Lion Inn, in Whitechapel. He accordiij,ly we** thither, and found it to be the same ; a,then resolved to wait till spmebody came to fetch'Nobody came at the time it was left for ; but alleleven o’clock at night. King’s brother (as it v^ftfisreacds proved) came for. the horse ; upon wthey seized him immediately, and taking him irthe house, he said he bought it, and could prodiproof of it. But .Mr Bayes looking outlie wbihis. hand, found the button half broke off andname Major upon it, which proved a coiihrmatOf the thing. They charged a constable with lbbut he seemed frightened, and they declaring tthey did not believe but the horse was for someb<else, and if he would tell them where they waithe should be released, he told them that there ’% person in a white duffed coat, waiting for itBed Lion Street. They then immediately wiout; and folding him as directed, perceived tha ^was Kjug, and coming round upon him, attac jhim,. King immediately drew 4 pistol, which Lclapped to Mr Bayes’s breast; but it luckily w|ieduin tin* pan ; upon which King struggled' to Lout bis other, that had twisted round bis poclj. >.but could not. Turpin, who was but at a small1 i >tance on horseback, came up, when King cried <|*v“ 1>—n ye, shoot him Dick, or we shall be take)at which instant, Turpin let fly one of his pfst Land the Other directly afterwards. Both shots med Bayes, but severely wounded King in two pfa* iWho cried out, “ Why, Dick, you have killed m(jnearly sob! Turpin hearing this, and finding ji4»Ijwae tq. to d#speTa0. ipdwi, wxlitlkW •+**#¥t ^esMe. Sosae aoc^uts saj that £ing died ai 1 week after; but with Biota cectainty it inay be a»-iM<a4rted, that he was the masked highwayman that»M.wfc»> shot near Eafield, by the King’s Qerman Bies-«! senger, in attempting to rob him in a post-cbaise.i I Thisr happened but a short time afterwards.. King11 awd Turpin never met after this; but King callediM.'lftBW a coward, andme wanting resolution.i ’.ayes soon after this got intelligence that Turpin' wight be found at a noted heuse by HackneyMifath,. and that when he rode ftut, he always hadti, three brace of pistols about him, and a carbinenMung. Upon inquiry this was found to. be true,il wfcitch made Mr Bayes desist in the pursuit. Tvw-i-pin. for. a while showed great signs of uneasiness,Mefoen. using something like the following expfes-2' ,»ions to the landlord; “ Why, Sam, what shall Ido? i)—n that fddo.w, Dick Kayes, I’ll be thedeath of him, I will. Where shall I go? for Itn have lost the beat companion I eves had in my life ;.i)i|i I,,have shot-poor Bang in endeavouring to rescueIR him from that shark’s paws.” He retained this re¬in solution to the last; but he never had an oppor-tnnity to put his revenge in practice.The public heard very little of Turpin for, neartwo. years after this. The first notice of him wasfrom the minister of Long Sutton, in Lincolnshire,who was magistrate of the plane. There he wastaken into custody ; but he escaped from the con¬stable as he was conducting him back from exami-3 nation, and hastened to Welton in Yorkshire, wherehe assumed his wife’s maiden name, (Palmer,) andtook upon himself to appear like a gentleman, lodii He took a large house at Brough, near Marks*1 Cave, in Yerkahwe, from whence to We)tcHi he car-iti riedon an extensive trade in horses, gelling and ex-*ll hanging ; and at the time of the races he is saidfi»k«re reibMd a boat one thousand pounds, whiekenabled him now (Mr J. Palmer) to keep the firstcompany stirring in those parts.On one of these occasional visits to Brough, hefell in with the celebrated Dicky Dickenson, thehumourous governor of Scarborough Spa, to whomhe sold a horse, which four years1 afterwards wasclaimed by Squire More as his property, he havinglost it from the Marshes in Lincolnshire. He wentfirst to Long Sutton, in Lincolnshire, where thepeople, he thought, would not know him ; and ashe abounded in money, he proposed to himself tocommence a dealer in horses.It is very remarkable that, for such a course oftime as from the date of the King’s reward of 2001.for his apprehension, he should still go on with hisdepredations with the most audacious impunity, in¬somuch that it affected the national character inthe eyes of foreigners, #ho could not help remark¬ing, that the native braVery of the English was su¬pine in bringing such a daring offender to justice.In fact, his feats of equestrian agility were so sur¬prising, and his identity so uncertain, that to thesecircumstances alone may be ascribed his long eva¬sion from the iron hand of the law. He had beenat Suson, and drank very free at the Cock there.Early in the morning he set off, and robbed a gen¬tleman of fifty guineas and a valuable watch, in theenvirons of London. Apprehensive of being knownand pursued, he spurred his horse on* and took thenorthern road, and, astonishing to relate, reachedYork the same evening, and was noticed playing atbowls in the bowling-green with several gentlementhere; which circumstance saved him from the j.hands of justice for that time. The gentleman herobbed knew him to be Turpin, and caused him to 11be pursued and taken at York. He afterwards !swore to him and the horse he rode on, which21Ifife identical fttte he arrived upon in that City; butm being in the stable, and his rider at play, and111 in the space of twenty-four hours, his alibi wasdmitted; for the magistrates of York could not•' Relieve it possible for one horse to cover the ground,>cing upwards of one hundred and ninety miles, ino short a space. He is reported, upon this occasion,0 have used his horse to raw beef upon the bit id1 ids mouth. Some go so far as to say he always rode< Irith fowls gilts tied round. Be this so or not, itliras a race that equalled, if not surpassed, the firstachievements of turf velocity.it Another time he robbed a poor woman returningrorn Ferrybridge, where she had been to sell someommodities v and soon after hearing she was dis-ressed by her landlord for rent, he contrived to re •ie^e her in the following singular manher. Heiriund out her abode, and threw into the window,ihrough the glass, a leather bag, containing goldnd silver to the amount of six pounds ; perhapshe produce of a recent robbery. ' ,1 For the last two years of his life he seemed to'iave confined his residence mostly to the county of(fork, where he appears to have been so littlemown, that his company was chiefly with the bestreomen of the county. He often accompanied the■ Neighbouring gentlemen in their parties of hunting" l shooting; and one evening, on a return fromlin expedition of the latter kind, he saw one of hislandlord’s cocks in the street, which he shot at, and.illed. One Hall, his neighbour, seeing him shooti jjhe cock, said to him, “ Mr Palmer, you have doneivroiig to shoot your landlord's cock:” whereupon(Palmer said, “if you will stop till I have chargedfjny piece, I will shoot you too.” Mr Hall hearmgfihis, went and told the landlord what Palmer had"done and said, and had him immediately appro*i tended, and on refusing to find sureties, was oop-„ ^ ftiifonp^ons poured o* from mnons parts, miplicatmg his conduct, and in loss thantwo months, persons from Lincolnshire claimed a‘ %T> and lihewik^orgg, ^ic^.ho-^qf Feprar-was one among the claimants. His horse waslat on whicli Turpin, alias Palmer, rode when heaipo to JBeverly, and jJiiQh h<he .had .Jtqiep ffpm ofl’ ilicJkington Fen, in Lincolnshire.After he had been in prison near five months, heiwrote the following letter to his brother.Dear Brother^—1_ am lorry to^aeguaint ^-ou, now undefconfinement in York Castle, 1au^ acquittal. It U true I hare been here a long while/But nea great,wrotedo aotcquittak It i* true I hare been here a long While/hut nereei.L trt-n 70I f'tnfhar J0I£N’ PApJOaft.itHis brpther refnsed to tphe the letter; and it w^returned unopened to the Post Office in Essex, he-mse the brother would not pay for it. This letterbeing accidently seen by a Mr Smith, ft scJn^J-mas-ter of the town, he recognised the hand-writing tohim to write at his■f ^ mar|be Turin’s ^or be ^dt^ifather s. This coming to t]gistrates, they subpa'iu 'was discovered that thisRichard Turpin. ,,;)TOn a rumour that the noted Turpin was a pri¬soner in York Castle, persons hooked from all partscSril^ Country te take a vipw of him, and d#11®?'.ran very high wh^r 9$not. Among othersi'll... ,retended to bo well acquainted wi%?uvyro^mIfim’.a punting. Aftepconsiderable tune with looks of great attention, bp■ -‘^KBSsSegmWi'*»!' 1»TmiH I at • rVn!«9 M>nW -4)»ring his abo^e in fite iCg^, the *r«irtsaid to hare made more than £100 by showingi him, and selling him and his acquaintances and■ ^fifcnflifaqjK^ I ,rflT IhqA no ,noijThb trial of Turpin tP'dc pted? Yo4: Gastin, onill the 22nd of March, 1739, before the Hon. Sir Wm.i Chappie, for stealing a blpqk gelding, the property«o£ Th(«ias Creasy. Upon hie trial, Smith, theI .schoolmaster, proved hi? identity- Pprlng hiei, his caao deemed mdeh b? adeqt ihp ho^Fb^r Pe h?4two trials, in both of which ho was convicted qii■ ithe fullest evidence. When pelmd by the Jn4g9' why sentence of death should not beagainst hiifc bn s%id he tbqnght it i¥lifDr fci*d ^hewas not prepared for bis defence, having been in¬formed that his trial would be removed to JEssp*,■teijr lordship observed that whoever told him so'Mimrere highly to blame ; but it wa# his duty, the juryinhioriag found him guilty of q crime wprthy of(iid»ath, jth;.pronounce sentenoe agmnst hiiffc iool .beHe wrote to his father, upon being eftPvVAStnd, ,10i use hie interest to get him off for transportation ;'.iibut hie fate was at: hand: hip notoriety caused aj]Application to bo ineffectual,hther returned the following smsiirsy.i pj,w jiOWld,-Prtjhf aj»«r HWj awl far -Gqi’s Kwe jo^whole roliul, ip; of God to pardon your many transgression^, which tpe tnler re-red pardon for upon the cross at tiM'fut hour, thou ({tea wetj gThatjnder. The Lord be your comfort, and receive you into his everlast-ng kingdom. I am your distressed and loving father,JOHN TURPIN.The morning before Turpin’s execution, he paid£31 19s. amongst five men, who were to followhe cart as mourners, •ftMi tmbands and gloves, and^ .ve gloves and hatbands to several persons moreHe also left a gold ring, and two pair of shoes andclogs, to a married woman at Brough, that he was•“VWUacquainted with ; though he at the same time ac¬knowledged he had a wife and child of his own. <«He was carried in a cart to the place ofijexecu-tion, on Saturday, April 7th, 1739, with JohnStead, condemned also for horse-stealing. He be¬haved himself With amassing assurance, and bowedto the spectators as he passed. It was remarkablethat as he mounted the ladder, his right leg trem¬bled, on which he stamped it down with an air, and jwith undaunted courage looked about him ? andafter speaking near half an hour to the topsman,threw himself off the ladder, and expired in about |fiwe minutes.'J He WhS buried natt morning, in St George'schurch-yard, without Fisher-gate Postern, withthis inscription, It. T. '28. (He confessed to thehangman, that he Was thirty-three years of age.) IThe grave was dug very deep; and the personswhom he appointed as mourners, as above-mention¬ed, took all possible care to secure the body ; noi>withstanding which, early on Tuesday morriihg,some persons had taken it up. The mob havinggot scent where it was carried tt>, and suspecting itwas to be anatomised, went to a garden in whichit was deposited, and brought away the bodtthrough the streets of the city, in a sort of triumph,almost naked, being only laid on a board, Coveredwith straw, and carried on 4 men’s shoulders, andbgried it in the same grave, having firat filled thecoffin with slacked lime.Jt.VrifWd jiiii olni J i9r>5i has :> •> 'or ad iri. 1 oil i ir : T-iflaB I. f _ wv10 ^ bu* b* - juaib ir/ov. aw I .u.oL^iri J yaif)ieq od ,floiii/oaxo a'lrfffrnT ;,iwoffol of Tisv odw .i. m; ovriaovo’e him f.fiedHfffjsw 9x1 fij' d. ri—mowiiOlog 83Mob