THE LIFE Jf°QOAK»EXPLOITSOFRob Roy MacGregor.j iVher* 1* altray* kept on Sale, a choice and esHiuivt Ahok-■sant of KRetorie*, Songs, Chil iren*» Story leoli«,School Book*, &c, &c.THK\LIFEOFRob Roy M‘Gregor.Robert M'Gregor, or Rob Roy, wassecond son of Jjonaid M‘Gregor, of thefamily of Glengyle, a lieutenaut-colonelin the king’s service, by a daughter ofCampbell of Glenlyon. Our hero wasdenominated Roy, a Celtic or Gaelic[ phrase, significant of his ruddy cotn-I plexion and colour of hair.Rob Roy’s family were very respect¬able. His father was the friend an4ally of Regent Murray, and brought lahis assistance 800 McGregors, in an ex-I pedition to quell an insurrection of the!M‘Phersons, in the north; for which aer-vice- Murray granted him a lease of afarm, which still remains in the posses¬sion of the family.The education which Rob Roy re.4>ceived was sufficient fur the sphere oflife he was destined to occupy. In hisearly years, it would have required veryuncommon penetration to discover thoseindications of sagacity and prudencewhich he afterwards exhibited. In youthhe evinced strong natural parts, and soonexcelled his compeers in the rude ac¬complishments of the age. He was ac¬tive, bold, and possessed of great bodi¬ly powers; he has been known to seizea deer by the horns, and hold him fast.In the use of the broad sword, few couldequal him. But although hisj^mewasso singularly robust and his dispositiondaring and resolute, yet his mannerswere polite, his address insinuating, bisfaculties acute, his conclusions prompt,and his resolution determined.In his youth he studied the ancienthistory, and recited the impressive poe¬try of his country j and these wereeminently calculated to inspire senti-nitnts that cherished a warlike and en¬terprising spirit. Robin his boyhood,delighted in the reveries of a romanticimagination, contemplating the sublimegrandeur of his native wilds—“ Therocky mountain, whose summits wereoften hid in the clouds that floatedaround them j the dark valley, encircled.5by woody eminences ; the bold pro*montcry, opposed to the foa ning ecean,and sometimes adorned by the castle ofa chieftain ; the still bosom of .the lake,that reflected the surrounding land¬scape ; and the dreaiy silence of the ca¬vern,” were objects that influenced hisyouthful feelings, disposing his mind tothe cultivation of gen-rous and manlysentiments. These impressions werenever alter eradicated. They continuedto bless his temper, and t® give it a castof romantic chivalry, which he exem¬plified in many of his future actions.”Rob Roy being no.v determined tofollow the quiet avocations of a rurallife, rented a tract of grazing land atBalquhidder, and for several years, pur¬sued a quiet and inoffensive course. Buthis cattle were often stolen, aiong withthose of nis neighbours, by hordes ofbanditti from the northern shires, whowasted the country. In order to pro¬tect himself from these marauders, hewas constrained to maintain a selectparty of men ; and to this cause maypartly be attributed the w.idike habitswhich he afterwards acquired.A considerable number of Macras,from the western part of Ro^s, having6committed an outrage on the propertyof a neighbour, and carried off fifteenfaead of cattle, an express was sent toRob, informing him of the circumstance.Being the first call of the kind he had* received since he became the protectorof the vicinity, he instantly summoneda dozen of his men, and followed theplunderers. Two days and a night hetravelled, without obtaining any otherinformation as to th’eir track, than attimes seeing the impression of the cat*,tie’s feet on the ground. The secondnight, being fatigued, the party lay downin a glen, near the march of Badenoch.They had now rested long, when a firewas discovered st a little distance. Theyinstantly set forward to reconnoitre,when they found it \v-s a band of jolly1 inkers, carousing near their tent, 't'heirmirth, however, was soon interrupted,when they beheld ilpb Roy and his par¬ty. The tinkers informed him they hadseen the JViacras, wht> were but at a lit¬tle distance ; and two of the tinkersagreed to conduct the party to the spot.The freebooters had halted, for thesecurity of their spoil, in a narrow partof the glen, when the M'Gregors over¬took them, as they were- setting out inthe morning. Rob, with a loud and ter-7riiic voice, which resounded among thecraggy acclivities, charged them to stop;but as they disregarded the order, herushed upon them with such fury, thatsix of their number lay prostrate on theground. The rest made a stout resist¬ance, but were soon overcome; twoTe-ing killed, and five wounded, they gaveup tke contest. Four ct Roy’s lads wereseverely wounded,'and himself receiveda cut on the left arm from the captain ofthe banditti. The booty, thus recover¬ed. was driven hack, and restored to therightful owner. Rob received greatpraise for this exploit; and many offer¬ed to contribute their donation of ‘ blackmail.’ This circumstance, no doubt,tended to arouse the latent activity andj| courage of his mind*{ ■ The executive government not onlysanctioned, but enforced the exaction of‘ black mail : and all constables werecommanded to see ‘ this order put intoexecution, as they shall answer to the con-1 frair.’ Rob Roy’s exaction of this taxwas not therefore an unauthorised robbe-,ry, but sanctioned by custom and local1 institution. For some time too he wasemployed in assisting the officers of theneighbouring districts, in collecting im¬posts for maintaining the * Black Watch,fta'corps o> ■ rjirer! to protect* thelives amt - - v of the people frommaraudin '.. -.A - _. ^rer:-. 'Fni?corpse, fromtke celebn - tcquired, afterwardsbecame :r troops, and were theorigin of the gallant 42 i regiment,, longknown by the v.ime of the * HighlandWatch,Ilob Roy’s birth, as a gentleman, andhis respectable- connexions, when he at¬tained to manhood, procured him ac¬cess to tlie first f niilies, and admissioninto the best company in the country.He formed a matrimonial engagementwith a daughter of M’Gregor of Comar,a woman of an agreeable temper anddomestic habits, active and economicalia the management of her family. Butshe took no part in the predatory con¬cerns of her husband, except on one oc¬casion afterwards mentioned.’Rob was net possessed of any patri¬monial property, but became master ofthe estate of CraigcrosfaVi, in the fol¬lowing manner.—When M* Greg or ofM’Gregor, was driven from his posses¬sions in Glencrchy, by the Campbells,he bought the Lands of Inversnait andCraigcrostau, then of small value, tho’of considerable boundaries, extending'froth the head of Loch Lomond, 129miles along its eastern border, 'andstretching far into the interior of theCountry, and partly around the base ofstumpendousBenLonaond. On the deathof his chief, in 1693, he left his proper¬ty to a natural brother, who was laird ofKilnaannan, This person was succeed¬ed b; a son, who courted a daughter ofthe laird of Leoy ; but Rob Roy, fromwnat cause is not known, raised suspi¬cions against him in the mind of theyoung lady, who in consequence reject¬ed her lover. He then paid his addressesto a daughter of Co'quhoun of Luss,and their marriage day was not fixed,when Rob again interfered, and MissColq ihoun also refused to fulfill her en¬gagement. Enraged at such treatment,the young chieftain went to Falkirk,| where he married a woman of mean ex^| traction, which so displeased his friends,| that they no kmger regarded him astheir connection. By this treatment,the young man was so disgusted with hiselan, that he gave up bis estate to RobRoy, and leaving his country, was nevermore heard of.Rob Roy devoted himself to the avo-i cation, of a grazier ; and as Highlandcattle about this time began to be ingreat request in England, Rob made10frequent journies for carrying on thistraffic. When M'Gregor was faiily set¬tled, and tacitlv confirmed, as laird ofCraigcrostan, his friendship became va-itiable, and was solicted by his wealthyneighbours. At this time the politicalvariance between the families of Mon*,t^ose and Argyle had grown into perso¬nal enmity ; this induced each of themto court the favour of Rob Roy, whosepersona! prowess, and daring spirit, rtn-dered him a desirable auxiliary, or a for¬midable enemy.Montrose to gain the confidence, andsecure the friendship of M‘Gregor, madeA proposal to enter into copartnery withhim in the trade of cattle dealing, a planin which he readily acquiesced, Mon¬trose accordingly advanced Re? 1000merks (about 501. Sterling) who was al¬so expected to lay out a similar sum, andthe profits were to be divided. Argylealso laboured to form an alliance withRob> hoping that, from h;s resolute bra-' very and local situation, be would bea souroe of constant annoyance to Mon¬trose. Besides he might suppose thatRob Roy has evinced a friendly dispo¬sition by assuming the name of Camp¬bell, that, of M‘Gregor being under -pro¬scription. But though Rob had chosen11this name in compliment to his mother*and in compliance with the law, he wasacknowledged in the country, and by hisclan, under no other name than that ofM‘Gregor. He therefore spurned theovertures of Argyle with indignation-Rob Roy, in carrying on business withthe Marquis of Montrose, was the ac¬tive manager. But a M'Ponald, an in¬ferior partner, on one occasion was in¬trusted with a large sum of money, withwhich he made off. This greatly de¬ranged Rob’s affairs, and he was unableeither to pay Montrose his money, or tosupport his own credit. Montrose abat¬ed with uncommon severity and harsh¬ness : he dissolved the copartnery, and Iinsisted that Rob should transfer his pro¬perty in security of the claims he pre¬ferred. This proposition was firmly re¬jected j nor could the threats of Mon¬trose’s factor alter his purpose. A law¬suit was entered against Rob, and hewas ultimately compelled to give up hislands in mortgage to Montrose, undercondition that they should again revertto himself when he could pay the debt.Rob Roy was extremely indignant atthe ungererous' conduct of Montrose.However, his mind was too strong to beweakened by misfortune j he redoublecl12his exertions, and was soon able to ten¬der the sum for which his estate washeld. But Montrose refused to deliver•p his property, pretending the amounthad greatly increased, and that it wouldtake a considerable time to make outthe statement. In this equivocal man¬ner the Marquis* factor endeavoured toevade the la*fu! claims of an injuredwan. Just at this time the revolutiontook place, and many of the chieftainswere arraying their followers to be inreadiness for acting in favour of thehouse of Stuart. Argyle attached him¬self to the Pm ce of Orange j but nothaving been r stored to his property,since the attainder and judicial murderof his father, he was hesitating in hissentiments; a d aware that Rob, in theevent of a war. would be a valuable aux-iliary, he renewed hi. overtures to him,and warmly s licited ms assistance.The suspicious Montrose soon disco¬vered that a convspondenee bad com¬menced between M ‘Gregor and Argyle ;and, eager for the destruction of a fa¬mily that had rivalled him in greatness,he wrote a Utter to Rob Roy, in whichhe promised, that if he would go to.Edinburgh, and give such informationas would convict Argyle of treasonable13practices, he would both withdraw themortgage upon his property, and givehim a large sum of money. Rob Royreceived this infamous proposal with thelofty contempt and proud scorn of aM‘Gregor* j and, without deigning to* A chieftain of the M‘Gregors residing o« hi*freehold in Glenorchy, had a son, who had gone inthe shooting season, with a party1'of young asso¬ciates, to the nsoors. They met with a young gen¬tleman of the name of Lament from Cowel, who,attended by a servant, was goissg to Fort William.They all went to a public house that was in theplace, anil took a refreshment ti'ijether: in thecourse of which a tri^^ing, dispute arose betweenLament and young M’Greg or. Dirks were drawn,‘and, before friends could interfere, M‘Gregor fellmortally wounded. In the confusion Lament escaped,and got securely to the House of M'Gregor, whichhappened to be the first habitation that met his ey«at the dawn of morning. The chieftain Was up, and; standing at the door. ‘ Save my lifs,’ said the stran-' ger, * for men are in pursuit of me, to take it away,f ‘ Whoever you are,’ says M'Gregor, ‘ here you aresafe’.Lamont was but just brought in, and introducedto the family, when a loud demand was made at thedoor, if a stranger had entered the house. ‘ Hehas,’ says M'Gregory ‘ and what is your businesswith him ?’ ‘ In a scrflle,’ cried the pursuers, ‘ hehas killed your son j deliver him up, that we mayinstantly revenge the deed.’ M'Gregor’s lady andhis two daughters filled the house with their criesand lamentations. ‘ Be quiet,’ said the phiefj withthe tears streaming from his eyes, ‘and let no manpresume to touch the youth—for he has M‘Gre-14.turn an answer, forwarded it to Ar-gyle who soon took occasion %o corifcfioht Montrose, with a charge of male*volence. But Rob suffered severely forthis noble act, for Montrose, in revenge,procured an adjudication of his estate,and it was ‘evicted for & sum very inade¬quate to its value.Daring this transaction, Rob Roy wasin England on business, and the expul¬sion of his family was conducted bygor’s word and honour for his safety; and as Godlive* he shall be safe and secure whilst in my house.’In a little the chieftain accompanied Lamentwith twelve men under arms, io Inverary, alTd1;imtied him in safety on the other side of Lochfine,then took him by the hand and thus addressedhim J^mont, now you are safe,—na longer canI or will j.™rotect you ;—keep out of the way of myclan.—May God forgive and bless you.’ " JThis happened some time before the act of pro¬scription against tbs clan Gregor in 1633; when, tothe discredit of justice, a weak government saevi-fised a whole people for the enormities of a few.M'Gregor lost his property, and was hunted for hislife in consequence of tiiis iniquitous act. He tookshelter in the house of this very Lamont,—the mis¬fortune of h.s younger years $ and who, by every actof kindness toJiis venerable guest, and some branchesof his family, revered the providence, which put itin his power to repay to the family of his benefactor,in some treasure, the loss be had occasioned them inthe death of a sonI . ^Grabaffl of Killearn, . under cireum-5 stances of the utmost indignity and bar-I barity. When M'Gregor returnad, andbeheld his destitute family, his soul wasfilled with rage, and he determined totake revenge on the authors of his mis¬fortunes. His first act of hostility a-gainst Montrose was at a term, when feeknew the tenantry of that noblemanwer£ to pay their rents. He and his mencalled upon them, and obliged them togive him the money, for which, how¬ever, he granted them acknowledge¬ments, ‘ that it wras received on accountof Montrose.’In this ccmpulsitory manner he leviedthe rents from the tenants for severalyears ; and Montrose, conscious, per-I haps, that he had taken undue advan*; tsge of I^ob Roy, seemed to overlookthe matter until a subsequent occasion,: when the factor was collecting his rentsat Chappellaroch in Stirlingshire. RobRoy had given out some days before byproclamation at the church door, that hehad gene to Ireland ; and the factorconsequently concluded that he wouldmeet with no interruption in Ids duty.Towards evening, however, Rob Royplaced his men in a wood in the neigh¬bourhood, anti went himself, with his♦ 16piper playing before him, to the inn ofChapellaroch, where Killearn was, atten-ded by several gentlemen of the vicini-ty. Alarmed by the sound of the pipes,they started up to discover from whenceit proceeded ; and Killearn, in greatconsternation, beheld Rob Roy ap¬proaching the door.He bad finished his collection, but thebags were hastily thrown for conceal¬ment on a shelf. Rob Roy entered withthe usual salutation, and the factor atfirst had no suspicion of hi* final pur¬pose, as he laid down his sword, andpartook ©f the entertainment ; afterwhich, he desired his piper to strike upa tune. This Was a signal to his men,who in a tew minutes surrounded thehouse, and six of them entered the roomwith drawn swords. Rob Roy, layinghold of his sword, as if about to goaway, asked the, factor, * How he hadcome on with his collection ?’ ‘ I havegot nothing/ said Killearn, * l havenot yet began to collect.’ * No, no,chamberlain,’, replied Rob, * your false¬hood will not do with me, I must countfairly with you by the book.’ Resist¬ance being useless, the book was exhi- |hired, and according to it the money/17was gitfen up, for which Rob Roy giant¬ed a receipt.Rut from the infamous tijeatmeot hisfatniiy had received from Killemi, RobRoy was resolved to punish him, andhad him immediately conveyed to anisland near the east end of Loch Ket-i turin, now rendered famous as the sup¬posed residence of Fair Ellen, the Lady ,of the Lake.In this island Rillearn was confinedfor a considerable time ; and, when setj at liberty, received from Rob a prudent[' admonition as to his future con-duct.Rob Roy was always the friend andprotector of the weak and oppressed.The disorders w'hich prevailed in the na-I tion, during the reign of Cnaries II. be-Icame still more dreadful on the acces¬sion of his brother James, whose bigo¬try permitted the most odious crimes,and authorised such cruelty as the mindshudders to contemplate. At thesescenes of horror Rob had often beenpresent, whose soul burned with indig¬nation at their Wickedness, regrettingthat he was not vigorous enough tocrush the bands of inhuman wretcheswho executed the bloody commands ofthe king. After he had been expelledfrom his estate, he went to Carlisle, to re.18cover a sum of money due to him. Re¬turning by Moffat, he fell in with a par¬ty of soldiers hanging four peasants,whom they "called fanatics. A youngwoman, who was also*bound to the same>tree, bewailed the fate of her father andbrother, two of those who^suffered. The.deadly work being completed, four ofthe soldiers seized the young woman,tied her hands and feet, and were car¬rying her towards the river to drownher, regardless of her tears and entrea¬ties to save her*. Our hero's heart be¬ing ’wrung with sympathy, and shockedat such cruelty, ordered the perpetra¬tors to stop, and demanded, why theytreated a helpless female with such bar.barity ?’ The office* desired him to ‘ &egone, otherwise he would experiencethe same treatment, for daring to inter¬rupt the king's instructions.* The mis¬creants were just about to toss the girlin the stream over a precipiece. Robbecame frantic with rage, sprung uponthe soldiers, and in an instant eight ofthem were struggling in the pool.The officer and the remaining ten menwere confounded and stood motionless.In this pause Rob cot the cords thatbound the girl; and killed the officer atone stroke. The soldiers attacked him,Abut he killed two of them,’ and the restfled to the town, leaving him master offthe field, to the unspeakable joy of theyoung woman, and the great delight ofI the peasantry who stood around.Our hero new devoted himself to mi.ilitary pursuits, lie selected a body ofi men no less resolute than himself. Thesei bold M’Gregors entered into a bond ofI union which no hardships could teari asunder, nor contention overcome; whilethe masterly discipline established byRob rendered them the terror of sur¬rounding counties. They mutually re¬cited the wrongs of their clan, and re¬newed the determination of taking aproper revenge. While the warlike mu>sic of the pipes animated their spirits,and inspired them with a courage almostirresistable.The government now watched themotions of the Highland chiefs wifb ajealous' eye, and thus they were obligedto communicate their sentiments re¬specting the exhiled house of Stuart inthe most sacrfcd and clandestine manner.Their opinions were unanimous, and abond of faith and mutual support was,signed. By the negligence of a chief¬tain to whom the bond was intrusted, itfell into the hands of Captain William20Campbell of Gk-niyon. When it wasknown that a man of .such inhuman feel¬ings held this bon J, : ; .r-u? who signed itwere seriously alii .v eah -rd vciriou-; planswrere suggested f >r i> c vt ring it. RobIloy, v.dth the ci ns h ; i also affixed hisname; but on bis o'vu account he re¬garded neither the-king nor his govern-Rtent. lie w?s, however, urged by se¬veral chiefs to exert himself, and, ifpossible to recover the bond. To ac¬complish this, he went to Fort Williamin disguise ; and getting access to Capt,Campbell, who was his near relation, hediscovered that he had put the bond in¬to the possession of the governor, whowas determined to forward it to the Pri¬vy Council. Rob learned the day cfiwhich it was to b- sent off, took leaveand went home. The di'.patqh was madeup by Governor HilK, and sent from FortWilliam, escorted by an ensign’s com¬pany. On the third day’s march, Rob,and fifty of his men, met the party inGlendochart, and demanded their dis¬patches. The officer refused ; but. wastold by Rob, that be must either givetheir lives and the dispatches together,or the dispatches alone. The dispatcheswere given up ; and Rob, having takenout the bond he wanted, begged the of-ificer would excuse the delay he had oc«Icasiomed, and wished him a good jour-i ney. By this bold exploit many chiefs! sared their heads, and forfeiture of their: estates.The spirit of clanship, the dignity as-i sumed by great chieftains, and the pro-I found submission of their vassals, often| produced the most iniquitous actions.Against such acts of violence, thougki overlooked by the government, Rob RoyM’Gregor manfully and openly drew hisi «word.On the estate of Perth, a clansman ofRob Roy's occupied a farm on lease jbut the factor took occasion to break it,and the tenant was ordered to remove.Rob, hearing the story, went to Drum*mond Castle. On his arrival the firsti person he met was Blairdrummond, the: factor, whom he knocked down, withoatuttering a word, and walked on to thegate. Perth who saw* this from a wia-dow, came out and gave him a cordialwelcome —Perth, I want no show tfhospitality ; l insist oply to get back thetask of which my namesake has beesdeprived, otherwise 1 will let loose saylegions on your property.' Peith wasobliged to comply. The lease was re¬stored, in. Rob sat down and break¬fasted with the Earl.22Graham of Kiftearn was factor on theestate of Montrose, and second cousinto that nobleman. Being in the con-'stant practice of distressing those ten¬ants who were in arrear, he was despisedin the country. He had once seques¬trated the goods and cattle of a poorwidow for arrears of rent; when Robheard of the cruelty, he went to her,and gave her the 300 merks she owed,at same time desiring her, when she paidit, to get a receipt. On the legal day,the officers appeared at the widow'shouse to take away her effects. Shepaid their demand ; but Rob met them jmade them surrender tire money theyhad extorted ; gave them a good drub¬bing, and an advice never again to actin the same manner.Sometimes the rich procured a mort¬gage bond upon the , property of hisneedy neighbour ; and this was gene¬rally turned into an authority to seizetheir lands by force. Glengyle was un¬der a bond of this kind, when Rob Roy’snephew succeeded to it. Rob, knowingwhat advantage would be taken of thecontract, gave his nephew the money,for the puij )se of retrieving the bond.The period of redemption had only alew iponths to run; and, under pretence23;thafc the bond could not be found, themoney was refused. Rob Roy at thistime having been otherwise engaged,: the matter lay over, and the bond wasi allowed to expire ; when young M‘Gre», gor was ordered to remove himselfi hisdependants and cattle, in eight days., Rob Roy could not suffer suclf treat-: naent; and, assembling his gillies, took! the chieftain prisoner, who, knowingRob's disposition, agreed to give up thel bond when he got home. Rob, puttingi no confidence in his promise, compelledi him to send for it, and give it up to himpresently.The incursions of our hero inducedMontrose to apply to the Privy Councilfor protection; and obtained an act,which was expressed in these terms—‘ torepress scorners, robbers, and brokenmen, to raise hue and cry after them, torecover the goods stolen, and to seiaetheir persons.*This decree, though despised by Rob,made him more watchful of his foes.But Maintrose, under authority of theact of council, called out a number ofhis people, headed by a confidentialGraham, and accompanied by some mi¬litary, sent them to lay hold of Rob Roy;he chanoed to be absent when the424&rahams assailed his house during the*ight. Having learned that Rob andhis men were at a public bouse in Strath-illan, he in the house, and they in aitadjoining barn. The Grahams imme¬diately broke open the door. Rob wasinstantly accoutred to meet them, andlevelled them man by man as they ap¬proached, until his own lads, roused bythe noise, attacked the Grahams in therear with such determination, that theyretreated, leaving behind them severaltheir party sorely wounded ; but Roh,having refreshed his men with a glass ofwhisky, ascended the hill towards thehead ot Loch Lomond.1FINIS.