THECourt Lady’sTRUE AND INGENIOUSF O R T U N E - B O O K.DIRECTED TO ALLYoung Men, Maids, Widows, and WidowerSe "CONTAINING,I. A Table that refslves all Qiieflions in Love.31. TI.h Signification of Moles.III. The Interpretation of DreamsIV. How to know if or Female be a true VirginV. How to know if a young Man hits lojl his Maiden* '< head.VI. How to make a famous Love Powder.VIL How Baihilors. Maids. Widows, and Widowers,may fee the Faces of them they Jhall marry, ina Drinking-glafsTHE TABLE OF FIGURES.This Part of the TABLE is for M E N.| A | a | 4 m 2 | s j C | 2 | , || 6 | .^ I s I I 6 | 4T I 4 1 6 |The QUEST 10 NS for MEN.i. How many Wives fhall a Man have ?2. What Portion Giall a Man have with his Wife ?Anfwer, Go to the Letter B3. What kind of Woman fnall one’s Wife be ?Anfwer. Go to the Letter C,This Part of the TA BLE is for W O M E N1 G 1 2 j 4 1 H 2 I 5 [ I I 2 I 3 1i 6 1-3 1 5 f 3 6 1 4 | 5 I 4 l~h~lThe QV EST IONS for IP O M E N.1. What kind of a Man (hall your Hufband be ?Anfwer. Go to the Letter G.2. How many Hufbands {hall you have ?Anfwer. Go to the Letter H3. Whether is it befl: for a Woman to marry ?Anfwer. Go to the Letter LThe Table having a paper laid.over it, prickat it blindfold, having firft turned yourfelf fourtimes round, it {hews the anfwer of the QueLAtion you defire. If you nvifs the Line, you mayprick again; for if four days you prick on the HPlanet Line, and go to the Letter and Figure,or Planet you chance to prick on j and there gyour Queftion is refolved.THE QUESTIONS FOR MEN.Hnou tnanv IVrues /hall a Matt have ?Hoiv many Wives Jha'l a Man have ?A N£ wife thou ’It have both young and rich,Anfwer. Go to the Letter ABut {he (hall have a wanton itch.Shifting her quarters now and then,For. love Ihe bears to other men.THE COURT LADY ’ S, &C.'2 Two wives l fay thou art to wed.Both which are lawful to thy bed ;: Sons by the fit ft thou fhalt have ftore,- And by the laft have many more-3 Thou art to have thy neighbour’s wife,* And be a cuckold all thy life ;| For when her hufband's dead and gone,Thou’lt wear the horns thyfelf put on.4 Wives thou art allotted three.Mete than are good I promife thte ;rI he firlt is like to be thebeft,Butwifh the de’il take all the reft.5. Two wives thou art dehgn’d to wed.But one will hornify thy head ;The mher won’t be worth a groat,‘ Yet Ihe will drub thy cuckold’s coat,6 As many nicks as you may fee.Betwixt the navel and the knee jSo many girls thou art to meet.Betwixt the top and under fheet.What Portion Jhajl a Man have with hisWife?B. T T AVE no regard to worldly pelf,Jfj|. She’ll have a portion of htrfeif,A chatte, a fweet, and comely dame,With virtues more than I can name,2. With a good wile thou wilt be bleft.That portion is worth all the reft jShe lhall have gold and filver ftore.What can thou then defire more.3. I'hou’lt have her belly to her chin.But of thy neighbour’s laying in,With a tongue that founds as well.And loud as the high fteeple bell.4 An hundred pounds in beaten gold,Thou at thy marriage ilialt behold $"4 THE COURT LADY’SWhich thy wife fhall unto thee bring.And many other needful thing.5. The grand defigners of thy match.Will for their own advantage watch,They talk of more than thou wilt find.Therefore leave off and change your mind.6. ’ Fis true her portion is but fmall,But thou defervefl: none at all j[f fhe had ne’er a petticoat,jhe’s richer than thee by a groat.ti What hind of Woman one's. Wife will he ?|iil. be not of thy dame fo proud,\_A The little woman will be lewd jj Then go to fonje convenient pool,therein there ftands a ducking-ftool.2 Thy tvedding-day is like to bet prologue of felicity;or fhe that is to be thy love,(Fit: be as chafte as any dove.3. Thy wife will be an honeft dame,nd M begins her Chriflian name :I hen let not fears poffefs thy head,1 or fhe will ne’er defile thy bed.i 4 Thy wife will be an arrant fcold,'l-nauir’d, ugly poor and old ;whore, a flut, and ugly too,nd yet fire’ll always brawl at you.5 V homely pufs. of nature bafe,j’Tith crooked looks and crabbed face,|oth poor and baldly born and bred,' ich is the girl thou art to wed6 A girl of middle age and ftature,loftv in her mind and nature ;ad when thou com’ft into her yoke,t up thy horns into thy poke.FORTUNE-BOOK. $THE QUE S T1 O N S FOR WOMEN. 1What kind of Man your Hujbattd Jhall be.G, A Proper hufband I fuppofe,Jr\_ With browiiifii hair and Roman nofe,!His name beginneth with a T,He hath a mole upon his knee.2 Ihou’lt have a pretty daper man,Who will love thee dearly honeft Nan j jHis name it begins with a G,And will a loving hufband be.3 A gallant fpark in Glafgow town,: Who does go buffing up and down,: More wit than money has the blade,, Or I’ll give o’er my fortune trade.4. An aged widower thou ffialt wred,‘ And thou, fhalt hornify his head;But he will foon from thee be hurl’d,|i And fent into the other world.5. He will be of complexion fair,A thlnnifh beard and yellow hair jHis name beginneth with an L,[ He loves thee mod: exceeding well.! 6. Marriage the glorious crown of love,A blcffing unto thee will prove ;l Thy hufband will be a handfome man,| And to pleafe thee do all he can.flow many Httjbands one flail have.H. r 8 TIE man that liveth near thy he ne,j|_ And conftantlj at night doth ame,11 fay, do all ye can, ’tis he.And he alone that fliall have thee.Only one hufband thou fhalt have.And he ffiall put thee in thy grave :^.ut he will fo lament for thee,'hat he foon after will burigtl hr-5 THE COURT LADY’S13- One hulband l for thee dirt ft.Which will from danger thee prottft.And cherifh thee in time of need.If thou from horns will keep his head.4. One hufband thou ihalt find enough,For he will ule thee very rough, jJ3ut yet for that be not difmay’d,pThou’lt fee him in his coffin laid.It 5. Two hufbands f tor thee allot.But one of them w ill prove a lot;- The other hufband you will findHoneft, loving, juft and kind.[ 6. Two hulbands I to thee defign,;Thou,ll break one's heart, the other thine ;The firft fhall never care for thee,i And with the laft thou’lt not agree.Whether it is befl for a Woman to marry.1. T_TE that in ftature is the leaft,JTjL Of all thy fweethearts is the beft :; ' Have him, I fay, at the next offer,| Thou’lt ne’er have fuch another proffer.2. If thou wilt once thy love confefs,Ij And let him know your happinefs j• With greedy arms unto him move,f ■ He will embrace thee and thee love.3. Wedicck will be to thee a curfe,| Yet better marry than do worfe j| ’-Marriage is better, honeft Kate,i Than to repent when ’tis too late.4. Marriage is beft, by every voice,: But thou poor girl haft not thy choice ;: The joys thereof though mixt with woe,i Doth virgin treafure tar outgo.5. The marriage-bed, and wedding-ring, —--t. kfitip- : 7FORTUNE-BOOK.Then at the next offer of a mate,Strike up before it be too late.6. Dofl: thou not long to be a wife.And live a while a. married Jife,Thou longeft for the bleffed fweets.That doth attend the wedding-fireets.The Signification of MolesA mole on the left fide of the forehead, de¬notes early love, but fome croffesand difappoinuments ; on the right fide, fignifies fuccefs in loye son the left, happy marriage : on the right breaft,tender afft&ion : and on the Left, difappointmentin love. Near the navel, fruitfulnefs in men oiwomen: on the lip, to a woman, cafe in childbirth;to a man, a loving mate: on the knees, riches.A mole on the ancle, denotes a man to be !woman-like in his a&ions : a mole on the foowithin the flroe, denotes a man or woman to b<forward and far travellers: a mole on the back,fide of the neck, denotes an untimely end, igrace prevent it-not.The Interpretation of Dreamt.To dream you are bit by a ferpent, or am Iwild beaft, fignifieth danger by fabtile enemies'to dream you fly in the air denotes a fpeedy journey. or hafty news : to dream yo if fight and overcomers to get the better of controverfies, or lawfuits: to dream a lion or ravenous beaft fawnjupon you, is promotion and the favour of greamen : to dream of black coffins and mourners,denotes loving friends to be all well; to dreanfyou lee one dead, denotes they are in goodhealth : to dream you are in fields of ripe ftand) jing corn, betokens joy and profperity : to dreamyou are counting filver and receiving money, i ;ifc_P^ft^and^advantagej_but gathering, up, orIj 3 THE COURT LADY'S, &C.| ceiving copper-money, is lofs and difappoinnnent:} to dream you fee a white horfe coming to you. is1 that you fiiall (bon receive a letter. A. woman to‘dream fhe kiffes another woman, is difappoint-i-ment in love : a woman to dream that a ring or;gfove is put on her finger or hand, is hidden mar-triage : to dream that one is all befliitten, and isKnot fc, it betokens good luck in bufmefs next day.|| How to knozv if a Female be a true Virgin;|i Take colwort leaves, garliek flowers, Guinea||pepper, and the powder of father.n-wood le? /es,{Kvrapped together, and burn inthefire where (he is,j lif flie fueeze not, flie is a pure virgin ot if fh- does.Idle hasenjoyed the benefit of a man'*?, hard 1 tbour.How to know if a Alan has lojl his Atnilen head.Take the root of cuckoo pint dry it in an oven,•powder it, and put as much of it into his drink uswill ly on a filver twopence, give it unknown tojhhn, in wine beer, or ale, if he be importunateto go out and mike water and that often, hehas been doing what his daddy did but if he| keeps his feat and water too. the contrary.It How to make a true and fafe Love Powderp Take of the female feta-root a quarter of an.Ifounce, dry it well, powder it with the feeds ofSupines and burnt peach-flones. put it into bberlor wine, and when you drink of it, blow your•,breath therein, give it to the perfon.you love,I'and they will become of the fame mind and iov-gng nature with yourfdf.P How to fit the Face of thofie yo:t are- to marry*Take a young black hen’s firfl; egg. and drop;|it into a large drinking glafs of warm water, andsin it you may fee their face, and the very toolsof their employment,FIN I S.  