^rgatory Proved, Uluftrated, andfee forth in a clear Light.A */<UNERAL SERMON.Vi Father MURTAUGH O’LAVER Y.>riejl oftheParifhes of Sts John's, Dromore, and Machrelin,,Upon the death of onPof his' ParisKioners,a 1------ * ' .. _ — - -. . - . . . /Vivit poji Funera Virtus. Jnnsft-- '• ■ . ,TO WHICH IS ADDED,The Confecration of a Murderer of Hereiit-k Prin¬ces j ufed by the Jefuits in Popijh Countries-.&%&m>:kiyc •'ye.,&?S'ifv-*'•VG L A S G O W,FEINTED I N T H E S A,L T M A R K E T.mmi d c c y e, y*( 2 )r- .P U R G A TORI |Proved, illaflrated, and let forth ina Clear Light,My Frknds,YOU all know, it ifla a cufhtomary ting vi*ide Clergy, fen dey are going to preacha Sharmon, dat dey vill be tak a text from lilium particular plafii of de Scripture; butfor dat very ralhon, becaufe he iih cufhtomary,I v 11 not do it. For I love to be Shingular :And you know Shingularity in the right, iihnever a crime yet.And aih dere are a great many of you ga¬ther here upon difh oecaihon, ilium vid an ho-neft intention, no doubt, to be in/lrufVed, dan |lay yourihelves open to de conviction of detruth, (hum perhaps, to make Shell of ourHoly Decree, and laugh at de fooleries of deMals, as dey vill profanely fpeak : In ihprt*as dere are a great many of you gather here,ihum Phipfyterian, ilium Shurch of Eng-iiihman, and ilium Roman Catholic, I ihall.preach you a iliarmon in Engliih, dat you vill -all equally underhand fat I vas ihay.i\ndfJI?3'purgatory proved, illuflraied, &c.And de Shubjed I chufe to infift uponas de moft proper for difli occafion, ifh Purga¬tory: (de moft Advantageous and beneficialdo&rine of our Shurch) de method I {hail ob-ferve Hh.difti:Firft, I {hall prove to you, Dat dere ifhreally fuch, a plain as Purgatory, or a LimbusPa'rum, where de Ihouls of all our friends, de¬part dilh life, do go, and are purge from deirremaining {hi ns and pollutions.Shecondly, I vili defcribe difn Purgatory toyou.Turdly, I vill {how you de Pennance andPurgation of dat Purgatory.And Laftly, Apply de. do&rine to difn pre*fhent occafion.For proofs of de firft ting den: Dat dere iflireally fuch a plafli alh Purgatory, or a Lim¬bus Patrum, where de {houls of all our friendsdepart difii life, do go and are purge fromdeir remaining {hin and pollution : 1 need fliayno more, to you who are Catholics, den difh,Dat it ifh a do&rine upheld by our unerringcounfliels, confirmed by de Pope himfhelf, andftamped vid de able autprity of de Shurch: Fatneed you, who believe in that Shurch already,any more proof for a dodlrine, den dat Ihe i(hyour Oracle, and your infallible Guide. Sheilh in de plain of your reafon, fenfes and un«derftanding, and has power to {hudge and de¬cree, and determine, and difVatr, and ordain.£4 Purgatory proved, iliujlrated,in all matters of religion and do&rine, and alldat tend to your bodies and eftates, and alldat do relate to dilh vorld, or de next vorld tocome; fat ever derefore (he bid you fhay, youmull fhay, fat ever fhe bid you do, you muffdo, without ever pretending to tink or fhudgefor yourfhelves as de Hereticks fhay, dat vidbe blafpheming ’gainfl her mofl holy autority:Nay, it vid be mod horrid impudence anddamnable herefy.But for de benefit and convi&ion of oderdenominations, who pretend to fee vi’ deirown eyes, aflr de fhaying ifh, and thro’ degreat abundance, of deir ignorance, vid fhudgefor demfelves, in defe deep matter, I vill fhowde proof upon which our holy Shureh hasvounded dilh doctrine. And firfl, we are toldin de, fcripture, fhum fere nor noder, Dat alltings fhall be prove by fire, fat fort dey are;dat if any mans build ’port foundation, fuchas hay, nor ftraw, nor flubble, nor any fuchcombuftible materials, he vill fuffer damagenor lofs, and de fuperftru&ure fhali be burndown, yet he bimihelf fhall be fhaved, butfho as by fire, dat ifh, my friends, dc Pur-gatorial five of de turd plalli.Again, Our Shaviour did raife up van La¬zarus from dc dead, after he had been fivenor tree day in de grave till he vas flinkingagain: Now phere was dat man’s fhoul alldat while ? Ah, ah, in hell he could not be,for out of hell dere ifh no redemption : Inheaven he cou’d not be, for de ihoys andole afures of. dat happy plafh are fo great, heneverand fet forth in a Clear Light. ^never vid come back to diHi vicked vorld otours again, and go into a (linking carcafh datwas mod rotten in a grave; Ergo, it vu(h inPurgatory, or de turd pla(k.But again. Between our Shaviour’s cruci¬fixion and afcenfion, it vash f®rty day, agreat while my friends, near fix veek. Nowwhere vash he all dat while ? In heaven hevash not afcendcd ; in hell he could not be,for out of hell derc is no redemption, asI’ll (hay before. Where den va(h he; Letany Heretirk of you all anfwer dat now: Byi de fhoul of de holy pried, der va(h no oderj plash for him to be, but our own turd plash,: dat ish Purgatory.But led I should tire your patience, I villconclude dish head vid one proof more, pinch!! is de only article dat fupports dish dodtrine.And fird, We are told in de holy Gofpellof St. Shenefis, shum phere nor noder, Datwe are, all corrupted and contaminated vid depollutions of shin, dat no man liveth andshinneth not, dat dere are none righteous,no not van. Again, we are told in de holyProphecies of de Evangelids, shum wheretor noder, Dat no unclean ting shall epternto de Kingdom of Heaven: Where denhall dey go? All, we hope vill not go todell piping hot: For dere are a great manyjiens, and true Roman Catholicks, but deyJe not fo good as to be fit for dat holy plash1 herein entereth noting dat ish unclean, nei-ier any ting that defileth. It remains den,*.y mult go to Purgatory, jsjrhere dey shall be| cleansht6 Purgatory proved, illujlrated,cleansht and purg’d from their remaining pol¬lutions and contaminations of deir shins tilldey be made fit for de kingdom of heaven:And now let de Propteftants shay fat deypleafe, 1 tell you, by de shoul of de holyPrieft, dere is no poflibility of ever getting toheaven, till dey firlf go dere and undergo deirpennance. It is plain den, de shouls of allour friends depart dish life, as well as dishperfon now deceas, vent to purgatory as de jturd plash.But fither you ever hear fat short a plash!dish purgatory ish, and fat- your friends vashjfufF’ring dere—I cannot tell—You never didlfrom me, ash I remember, and by de confci-jence I know no body elsh vash able to teachlyou dat dodrine but myshelf, I fhall derefore|take dish opportunity of explaining her-little to you.And in de firft plash, It is a very larg<;;plash you may be fure, fen it receives for'pur||.gation all true Catholicks, who are de mofJLnumerous people ’pen tace of de earth : Fell:,befide ail, France nor Spain, nor Italy, ncjjRome are Catholicks, dere are a great n)ar||more, who are difperfed threugh de kin;|ldoms of de vortd; de Propteflants themshelvt|phen dey count heads vid ush, find, to de|great shorrow, dat we are more than tv|turds of the inhabitants of Ireland, who sjlprof eft Catho’s ;; befide a great many mol.:-who, for getting into de revenue, and de odjadvantageous polls, have call demshelves Prdjieftants ^and be eje Shoul of my dear Cofffland fei forth in a Clear Light. fdere are a very great Numbers of deni too)but are true Roman Catho’s in deir harts,who will get indulgence from de Pope, havede prieft, and de adminiftration of holy oylat deir dead, and vill get de benefit of Pur-I gatory, and de benefit of de clergy, fo velf| as any of you all, and dish make one half ofI Podcr turd, fo dat you shee, dere are but aI very few who are our hearty enemies, moft ofi which are,' damn’d black phiggish Phipfyteri-i ans, oh, oh, the Devil run away vid dem all.But here, by de by, you may obferve phatI a parcel of poor-fpirited, cowardly-heartedIfons nor whores of bitches are we, to be lbilong keep down by a parcel of damn’d here-iticks; if we wou’d but take courage, and be-ilgin, dey vill be noting in our hands: but if»we fubmit vid a flavish fubshe&ion to deiriheretick government, are hinder to carry;::|arms, made mere foies to deir brogues—butj by my own shoul we vill have our day aboutliivid dem yet.—Our plots vill at laft fucceed :jde king of Spain, and de king of France,|&c. vash picking quarrels vid dem, vid deirindepredations, and deir Guarda Cofta’s and fatPlot: aue, aue, aue, by my shoul dcy vill fallton at lafl, and take courage, and fwinge deinbravely: dey are. making great preparation’arming fleets and ships, and putting out land. forces, dey are very powerful armies, de wholevorld, ah, and by de holy Shaint Bridget,jiurope itshelf is no able to vidftand dem. Deyfill tell you of deir man’s of War, and deirHaddoks,S x Purgatory proved, illujlrated,deir Vernons, and de devil know' fat, ;tfiT! fink* and flop and deftroy our ships,leave dem./pon de bottom of de feas, andnever let dem put dere leg ’pon Irifh groundmore: dat de king of Spain feared for difh,and vill pay de convention and not fight: Bymy (houl he vill fight and beat too,—’tifh decaufe of de holy Shurch he’s defending, andde gates of hell vill never prevail againft him.Dere vill be Ihiftance enough I’ll varrant you,all de Shaints, our holy Moder Shurch, allde Scotch, and, by my Ihoul, de Virgin Ma¬ry herlhelf vill fight for us; den we vill fuc-ceed to be fure, poflefs our rights and eftatesagain, and eftablilh our holy religion thro’ allIreland, and I myflielf may be Lord of Trum-'ney, and of Lavry’s-Bog, before I vafi) die yet.But after fo long a digrefiion, I muft re¬turn to my explanation of Purgatory,In de Ihecond plafh for its fituation ; it iihshult, my friends, in the middle between hea¬ven and hell: from hell on one fide by a fmallpaper \V.l only, but from heaven, ’pon t’odcrbv a ftrong vail of adamant, vid gates of brafs,of which Peter keep de key, who vash him-|felf a true Catholic, for he vash once Pope,and all our popes ever fince are his fuccefibrs,and all defeenped from him by a right line cfjeeclefiaftick genealogy. You vill underftandlde tmg better, when I vill illuftrate her to youlby de following fimilitude, You all know MriHarrifon’s houfe ’pon de Miravel, phen ymvill go in.dere ish de parlour ’pon one handderdand Jet forth in a Clear Light. 9dere is de kitchen ’pen t’oder, dere ishde hall in de middle ; veil den, de parlour ishHeaven, de kitchen ish Hell, and de hall ishPurgatory in de middle; when any von likemyshelf who ish in de habit of a shentleman,dat ish, who is a Roman Catholick goes in,he vHl be shown to de parlour, but before heish intitled to enter, he mull wipe, and rub,and clean his foot ’pon a mat, which lie derefor dat purpofc; dat ish, he mull do de pen-nance and purgation of dat turd plash, dat ish,he mull have money ’pon his pocket too, topay his reckoning, or he vill not be admittedinto de parlour. Dish ish, he mull pay declergy for praying him out of Purgatory, or,by my shoul, Peter vill not let him enter intode kingdom of Heaven: you know yell e-nough, if a man has money ’pon his pocket,fpends lavishly, nor pays well, Mr. Harrifon,nor any oder inn-keeper vill be very civil ’ponhim, take him into his parlour, show him agreat deal of courtefy and good manners, andvill vait upon him vid every ting he’ll vant;but, if he’s poor, nor vilF not pay, he vill shutde door ’pon him, nor kick him out.—It isshuft fo my. friends vid Peter, if you pay declergy veil, and fupport the Shurch, Peter villcome vid his cap in his hand, open de gateand welcome you dere, but if you are poor,,,nor won’t pay, by de*holy Crofs! he vill shutde door ’pon you, nox‘ kick you out.But again. If any one come into de hallvid dirty or ragged apparel, as de Phipfyteri-ansi o Purgatory prrued, illuflratedrans and all oder Hereticks do, dey vill be im¬mediately trus down into the kitchen, dat ishHell, my friends; no queftion vill be alk, nocxcufe vill be hear, but away dey vill be hur¬ry, vidout repleven, nor benefit of de clergy.And dilh brings me, in de turd plafh, toconfider de pennance and purgation dat deftouls of our dear departed friends do IhufFerdere, and undergo in dilh turd plalh.De fhevereft of one of which punifhmentsifh, de (link of hereticks thronging throughto Hell: de damnable flench of de phiggifhPhipfyterians, which make me curl my nofeto link ’pon it: but de bed of it ish, dey arenot fuffer to tarry long, or be How in deirpafiage thro’ Purgatory, left dey should con¬taminate de confecrated plash vid de emana¬tion of deir herefy.De shecond punishment is occafioned byits being fituate ’pon de very edge of hell: forde plash is all laid vid great flags of iron, andplates of brafs which are ftrongly heated, byde force of de great fires, at phich de here¬ticks are roafting one another ’pon fpits, dat'tis great torment -to valk ’pon dem. Youknow phen you vill throw oft' your broguesby de fire-shide at night, and fet your barefoots *pon de Hone in de harth—He vill bevery shore,—ah, wod’ent he ?—By my shoul*yon is five hundred times as fore as dat. Or,if you wou’d make a truly experiment of deting, take a girdle and put her ’pon de firetill she be moft red hot, den fet her downandand fet forth in a Clear Light. 11and clap your bare arfe ’pen her, dat vii! be snearer refemblance of her flill; but vill notcome up to her yet. I know it ish a cushto-mary ting vid us Catho^s to provide againltour dear departed friends fuffering dish tor¬ment, by putting a pair of new brogues ’ponder cush in de coffin: which I do confeshmay do shum fervice, dat ish, if dey take careto pay de pried veil; For he may pray demout before de brogue be burn, but if not, dedevil a imall potatoe he vill bgnify! For youknow, if he day long in, de foie of de broguevill foon be burn, and den fat better vill he be ?It ish better to give de price of de brogue itshelf to de pried, and he vill pray dem outsho much fooner den de brogue vill lad.But de turd and greated punishment of itish a great big black ugly devil of a vomans,dat dands dere vid an iron flail, and she’s betrashing dem thro’ all de plash in a mod terri-ble manner : And fat ever part of de bodyvas guilty of de shin, she vill be trashing ’pondat very part.—If he vash drunkennefs norgluttony. She vill be trashing ’pon de belly.If he vash teeving, she vill come upon deirfingers vid her long flail, till she vill break allher nuckle again, and if he vash adulterynor furnication; ah, ah, ah! you may guefsyourshelves who will get his payment foundly.In short, she vih be trashing and trashing, tillde devil a bit of flesh vill she leave ’pon* yourbone, and dey vill be roaring and shouting, andcurfmg deir friends, dat vill give noting to declergy to pray dem ©ut of dat torment.NowH12 Purgatory proved, illujlratcd.Now my friends, you all know veil enough,de pried hash a difpenshing power over defetorments, fen he pleafes, dnt ish, if he’s paid• for him; but by my shoul not eiie : for togrant abshoiution vidout payment, wou’d bequite overturn de shurch : ’Tis de main pillardat shupports her, nay, ’tish de very founda¬tion ’pon which she is build.I tink now, my friends, I have prove to youdat dere ish really fuch a plash as Purgatory ;and dat de shouls of all our friends depart dishlife, are dere, fo veil as dish perfon how deceas.In de sheccnd plash, I have.d^fcribed purga¬tory to you, and turdly I have shewn you phatterrible tings your friends are fuffering dere,and dat I myshelf, as being a priefl: in dishparish, have a power of releafing any one fromdefe torments—if I am paid for him.Who den among you vill give a groat tohave dish man's shoul out of Purgatory. Comeyou mens dere.—Veil—dere ish one groat-make hade, you are very flow.Veil dere is i, 2, -3, 4, 5, 6, .7, 8, 9, 10ten groat Vill no bodies more give ?  Vash dish man's shoul worth no more denten groat? Aue, aue, aue, a poor ftory in¬deed ! Phat Phclemy, vill you give noting,nor you Tuilogh, ana you devils, are younot all his revelations ?—Come you, votnansdere, give money, nor yarn, nor butter, norflax, nor fomething. Come, Varrid Shaue,Anna and Shuga and all of you. Fat de De-vil are you doing ? Fat, no more groats—Vel,pho vill give tree pence ? Very veil: Vid nobodyand fet forth in a Clear Light.obody more give tree pence ? Pho vill givetwopence? Fat, vill no body more give twopence ? Pho vill give one penny itshelf? Not onepenny more to be got among you ? Ah, ah,you are a pack of hard hearted vicked devils!and me preachin sho long, and sho good asharmon to you, dat you never did hear be¬fore, dat colt me a whole quarter of year inftudying him for de good of your shouls: Andyou vill give noting for de shupport of mybody.I owe Joieph Usher of Mackrelin for dishcoat ’pon my back, and depended ’pon dishday for getting de money, but de devil a onei half, nor one quarter 1*11 get yet; phich if Ido not immediately, he vill put me ’pon con¬finement in de county goal: And den you de-jvils, you shee fat vili become of your shouls.Now you dat have got not the full groats,I’twafli better for you to have given noting atlall; for de punifhment of your friends villmot only be fcorching and fcorching, &c. butlihalving and quartering, and tearing in pieces.[For you dat give tree pence, 1 vill pray treeQuarters of your friend out, and leave t’oderguarter in for t’oder penny. And you dat|ive but van penny, I vi'l pray one quarter out,(oder tree fhall remain in torment as before.||o you dat have no money, borrow you devils,rrow and make up de full groat.Gloria Padria Whiilo $pr?(lu4 <& Shanl'j, Amco.st me fhee, dere ifh, * t 13 6y my fboul, he vaflj m bad colkco Afde.tion, after all that mw. iTheA--’( H )'The Confecratlon of a Murderer of Heretick Prin¬ces ; ufed by the Jefuits in Popijh countries.THOSE that are counted hereticks, byPapiffs, are by law and right deprived ofall they have, the Pope can authorize the or¬thodox members of the church, i. e. his ownfubje&s, to take poffeflion j and whatevermeans are ncceffary thereunto, he can legiti¬mate and make lawful, as poifoning, aiTalfi-nating, blowing up with gun-powder, &c. * Itis an approved thing among them, a cafe deliiberately determined by the infallible head of thechurch, that the killing of kings and queens, aexcommunicated by the pope, is no murder,nay that it is meritorious to deftroy hereticks.And, as they encourage the murder olfuch princes as they call hereticks, fo they:have a folemn form of preparing an aflafiiijfor his undertaking.The perfon defigned for the work is fecretjly introduced into the meditary or oratoryjthere a knife wrapped up in linen is takeout of an ivory cafe, marked all round witvarious chara&ers, together with an AgntDei. Upon this, as it is drawn out of rbjjfheath, they drop holy water, and confecr^ed coral beads- upon the haft, granting an i|dulgence of delivering as many fouls outpurgatory, as he {hall give wounds toprino* Vid. Bullum. Greg. XI!. l(t of July. yrKv'The Confecralhn cf a Murderer. 15prince, whom they defign to affaffinate : Thenthey put the knife into the hand of the parri¬cide, recommending it in thefe words. “ EleflSon of God, take this fwond of Jephthah, thefword, of Samfon, the fword of David, withwhich he cut off Goliah*s head, the fword ofGideon, the fword of Judith, the fword of theMaccabees, the fword of the Pope, by whichhe has delivered himfelf from the hands ofprinces, having fpilt very much blood in theirdominions. Go and be prudently couragious,may God ftrengthen thy arm.** This beingdone, they all fall down upon their knees,and the chief of them pronounces this exor-cifm : “ Be prefent ye cherubim, be prefent yeferaphim, ye thrones, ye powers, be prefent,ye holy angels, and fill this blcffed veffel withperpetual glory, and every day offer him thecrown of the bleffed Virgin Mary, of the ho¬ly patriarchs and martyrs; he is no longer amember of our communion but yours ? And|thou, O God, who art terrible and invincible,md who in the meditory haft put it into hisjheart to deftroy a tyrant and heretick, and:onfer his crown on a catholic king, ftrengtk-;n, we befeech thee, his hands and increafeJiis courage, that he paay accampiifh his will,jive him an omnipotent mail, whereby he maypfcape, the hands of thofe who would appre¬hend him, give him wings, by which his hc-members may efcape the endeavoms of•arbarous betrayers, pour into his foul thyhearing rays, by which his body, withoutin the midft of dangers and tortures,mayi & The Ccnfecvation of a Murderer.may be .mated with joy and exultation.”After this exofcifm, the parricide is broughtbefore the altar over which is painted thehiftory of Jaques Clement, a Dominicanmonk, with the images of angels prote&inghim, and carrying him to heaven. This theJefuits Ihew him, and withal, prefent him anheavenly crown, faying, “ Regard, O Lordthis thine arm, and the executor of thy juftice,let all thy faints arife and give him place.”After thefe ceremonies, four Jefuits are de¬puted to talk with the parricide alone, thefe,during their difcourfe, are wont often to fay,that there appears in him a divine fort ofbrightnefs, by the radiancy of which they aremoved to kifs his hands and feet, and that heno longer feems to them to be a man, but aheavenly faint; they pretend alfo to envy thegreat glory and bleffednefs to which he is nowadvanced, %hing and faying, “ Wpuld toGod l had been chofen in thy room, th3t be¬ing delivered from the punishment of Purga-tory, I might have gone dtfeddy to paradife.Rut, if he whom they judge proper to perpe¬trate the murder be backward and relu&ant,then they either force him to make fuch a vowby nightly bugbears, and monftrous fpe&res,or animate and introduce him to the enter-prize, by contriving apparitions of the VirginMary, or angels, or other faints, and fome-times of Ignatius and his followers.F 1 N I S,