THE ENTERTAININGStory-T dler,CONTAININGI. A Remarkable and Curi¬ous Story of a Lead Minein Derbyfnire, England.II. The Story of the Bene¬volent Sailer and a blindMan in Edinburgh.El. I he Story of a Beofcar'and his Dog.^ • A Curious Story of thelate Benjamin P pe,Efq;a Tanner and Ulurer inthe City of London.To WHICHV. The Ktimorous Storyof John M nrifey Erq;commonly' called" fheKing of Patterdale, in 'the County of Welhno; e-land, England.Vi. A Diverting Story ofHenry the Eighth, King-of England, and the Ab¬bot of Reading. Shew¬ing how the King curedthe Abbot of a bad ap.petite.ARE ADDED, #A Receipt for Lownefs of Spirits:—Defcription of'th:dilierent kinds of Drunkennefs. - And the Irifliman'snew method of challanging a jury.FALKIRK:AND SOJLD BY T JOHNSTON.l8oi;DESCRIPTIONOF^ CURIOUS 'LE^D MINE,in Derbyshire.A- - Gentleman of Norwich, who lately returned froma tour Into Derbyfbire, gives the following account ohis viftt to a Lead Mine near Caftleton.0'; our return from feeing Peak’s Hole, our ^uidetold us, that if we were fond of fights of the kind, t erei r .porl IVTlrwa far nfF. which was well worth ourt»id us, tnat if we were rona or ngnis vjiwas a Lead Mine not far off, which was well worth ournotice. We affented to his propofal, and returned tothe inn to get our dinners, and in the mean tl'yieguide went-and brought one of the miners to conduc us.The miner told us, it was ufual to take brandy, on ac¬count of the cold; we took Tome therefore m a bottle,ar.d f t forward to the mouth of the Mine, where \\faw great quantities qf lead ore ready prepared for tmeli-ine, and the people at work in their various departments.Tt\v:s four o’clock, the time the miners came out tronathe mine. T he women we obferved wore breeches.H -re another miner joined who was to be companionof our excurfion. He was one of the ftputeft men tever law; the very pi&ure of health, and well propor¬tioned, and his rnufcles feemed of Herculeian llrengt i.It do« not leem from what we faw, that working fothe m nes is, as has been faid, prejudicial to the heal.b iof cither man or wOm-m- They offered us miners dre ^C\ 3 )bat 33 we had our plaid* on, we tlwuaht ourfelves proofwee, ,dirr, or cold, ap'd therefore declined them- i he^two miners then put on their dreffes, and my friendand I fet forward withwthem. JV/e entered a hut at the Tide of the hill, where ourguides provided then delves with lights, which thev car¬ried in tneir ha,nds by fticking ftveral in a lump of dayand then proceeded down heps for near fifty yards fillwe came to a canal. - Here they told us we were to tree'ty br^’3nd g° aloi^tbe navigation for onethoufrndyards Tins navigation is through a cavern cut in theZl T'? uC, ;ffh’ and foUr W,de> the ™er about».ree Let, he miners have five guineas for everytwo yards, which they work by Wafting the ro«k withhad eacher'h WC the boat> and "’y f- iend and 1tad each a chair to (it upon, our guides fitting one at thehead, the other at the (tern of the boat. When we hadgone fix hundred yards, we came to a large naturalcavern in the rock, where there was a moft dreadful roarof waters; we flopped Itere to fee a water fall from anartificial dam made to keep up the level of water throuahthe navigation. One of the men pulled up the Humeand the roar added to the folernnity of the feene. waldread and awfol. Hence, we went two hundred S’Ia1®'ther “ be compared to rtej.mer w his joins the other after running fome littleway, and the joint ftream runs under ground till it findsl m way into Peak’s Hole. The whole courfe of thisftream is wonderful; it lofes ufdf under ground ahe mour miles front Cailleton, on the Manchefter road, runsthrough the mine, and afterwa ds through Peak’s HHewhence itag^in emerges to light, and take.c its courlht,et0il? H°pedale» llV means of thisa.ream there is a-conUant current of air through then. winch keeps it tree from any noxious vapours,w.nch won d otherwife be dangerous to the miner*4* bnndred and fircy vords farther brought us ts theend of tne navigation, when we chained our boar to a r J ?*nd’ WKb each »s a light, proceeded noon nlanks H dupon rafters over tV/' ’ pianKs, uid ^{ 4 )jrards farther1, hooping almoh all the way. At the endof this board-way, we got to a fmail cavern, and thereftof>d upright A) reft curfelves. The miners t-oki us, ifwe went farther, we muff climb up the rock by rails fixedinto the fules: That many went no farther than this place,but if we were not afraid we might proceed. V/e toldthem to lead on. We climbed for ten yards up the rock,by rail fotnetvnes a yard afunder, and at length got intoy largs cavern dimly to be feen by our candle light:The dafiiing noife of a water-fall, to be heard and notfeen/added to the terror of the place. Here our gtvdssagain alked us if we would proceed, telling us U wasforty yards, climbing up the fame manner we got hither,to the fiiaft they worked at. They looked in our laces,to fee if we were frightened, but we were determinedto go on, and 'with much labout1 and d tllculty got to theend of our fcrambling, which was fometimes throughholes ija the rock juft big enough to admit the body.Here we flaw the water-fall, which.dalhes-with a largeOre am from the top to the bottom of the cavern.From this place we went on flanting up tna rockten yards, to the p'ace they worked at. VV e floppedto rell and take fume of our brandy, which we no\yfound refrefiring to us, anj( the miners explained thewhole procefs of their work. We each worked outa piece of ore. as a memento of out expedition. The airj here was unpleafant, the finell of fmoakuig and of gU1^powder, ufed in Wafting the rock, being not yet gone off.fftere was ariOther way. out, by climb ng one hundred? and fifty yards farther to the top of the hill; but, asrl.e way lay through another proprietor’s mine, theminers never go to it, unlefs infifted on by ft*angerand, as we were fotnewhat fatigued with the exertions- of the day (having come from Buxton, by Elden Holeand Mam Tor) we judged it beft to go back as we came.Ac the top of the cavern, the place we left, efit climbing,one of the men left a piece of candle alight, wjvc.i nehad brought for that .purpofe, and we went down, aniim'r accompanying each to direfi; cur ft eps in ' re“trogade motion. We foon got to the bottom os' ?   raven,*.1( 5 )cavern, and our guides defired us to look up : the fightwas dreadful; the candle, forty yards above ns, appearedlike a itar, and afforded a dim light, juft Efficient to give?ti idea of the danger we had braved. The cavern wasdoped like a bee-hive; the way to the to me top was bythe flakes fixed into the tides Hoping in wards, fiomttiijusby ladders, many of the Heps of which were nearly wornthrough, and oniy a'ft ghr ballu'trade, fo that one f ifeftfp, or the breaking of a rail, would have dafhed ut life-lei’s to the bottom: But alt danger was now p ffed, andwe were thankful that we had efcaped it. Trie miner*frequently go up this way without lights. They told usthere never was hut one accident happened in this mine,when a man was drowmed-owing to his own groundiefsfears. We returned to rhe boat, and fet forward forday-light in high fpirits, finging “Long live the kuag,”Rule Britannia, and a variety of longs, ;n which a]l.joined; the miners (one of them in paititular) havingvery fine voices. 'At the large cavern I firlt mentioned we left anotherlight, which when we got the end (boo yards) had amolt beautiful etfe<ft, appearing likea Har with the beandsplaying upon the waters. We at length, after tw* hoursabfence from it, got to day-light again, highly *atitfiedand plealed with our excurfion, and returned tu Caliie-ton, with the mixed emotions of terror and admjration« j4+4H-++-H-++++-)-;-+-*■■«•? •• ' : 4 ■■STORY OFA BENEVOLENTYSAILOR.A few mornings ago (I remember it was a rainy me)as I was walking along one of he b'ck Hreets in Edin¬burgh, I was very much struck .vith a rmljncholy figureof a blind man, who was fingidg a iongof love. IViifc rycould not have found, among the viambi r f diUrt liedmorals, a form more limed to her nature. Whi! 11contemplating she wretchednef. of the objea, and -comparing it with th? ftrain which necc-ility compelled j( 6 )him to chaunt, a fuilor, who came whirling along tKellrcet, with article under his arm, ftop-ped anrt purchafeda ballad of him. “ Blefs yc,u),> cried the blind man,u for I have not tafted bread this bltfled day.’’ Whenthe iailor, locking around him, on a fudden fprung upfour rteps'into a baker’s (hop. near which he (food, andreturning immediately thruii a fmall loaf, filently, intothe poor man’s hand, and wept ofFwhifUing as he came.I was much affe&ed with the noblead of the generoustar; and a gentleman palling by., and witndlingthe ferric,i..alled the hoireft teaman back, and taking the Httieduvei'he had about him, which I think was about fourihidingsjlaid, “ Tliy noblenefs of foul, and the goodneis of thygenerous nature deferve a greater reward; this is all Ihave about me, I wtfli it were more. ’’ “ God blefs yournribk>»honour, laid the fiilor, and thank you; but wewill divide the prize-money fairly." So, flipping backto the blind man, he gave him half of it; and clappinghim upon the fhouldcr at the fame time, he added withal,t{ Here are two (hillings for thee, my blind Cupid, forwhich you are not obliged to me, but to a noble gentle-naan who (lands within five yards of you. So get intoharbour, and make thyfelf warm, and keep tln£ humdrumfor fairw weather.’’ Then giving his hat a quick wave; over his head, he thanked me agafr, and went nimbly| down the flrest.STORY OFTHE BEGGAR AND HIS DOG.Oke evening, when I was fitting at the foot of a bridge,a man of the lower order of the people, with grey hairsand a leg, and hardly able to get on with the helpof a (lick, paffed before us, followed by a young water-spaniel ; who«faid to the women, in whofe company I was,“ JLsdies, will you buy my dog "—-As each of them hadher own, and as his was not of the kind women.s?e fondof, they anfwered they did not want one. vf; )Then coming up to me, he faid in a mo'l prefiingtoneof vntreaty, “ Do, S;r, buy my dog ”—f‘ What do youafe for your dog ?” faid I. “ What you pleafe,*’ faid he.A piece of fix livres v/as all I had about me at the time.I gave-it him, and he accepted it without any marks ofrepugnanc', and faid, when he received it, “ The dogis yours.”—“ But," faid I, “ he will get away; I haveno firing to lead him by.”—“ Jt is, however, necefTaryto have one,” faid he, “ for-dtherwife he woidd followme.” Th«n undoing his garter, he called his dog, took rtin his arm?, and fee it upon the ballultrade of the bridge.I perceived that while tying it, the old man's hands* :trembled; this I attributed to age, for his countenance, jwhich I obferved.attentively, did not change: But whenhe had tied thelcnot, I faw' him let his head fall uponhis dog, and hiding his forehead in its rough hair, andwith hia mouth clole to its body, he hung over it forfume minutes mute and motionlefs.1 fteppedgup’tohim.—“ What is the matter, friend?”faid I. “ Nothing,” faid he, lifting up his head; “it svillfoon be over.” I obferved his face all bathed in tears.“ You feem to feel a great deal of uneafinefs at pm mg jlwith your dog,” faid 1. “ Alas! yes,” faid he: rie !is the only friend I had In the world: We never were j|afuader. It was he who guarded me when I was slkepon the road; and when he law me fuffering iad forfaken,the poor bead pitied me, and comforted me with niscarcfTes. He loved me fo much, that I can do no lefsthan love him. But all this figuifies nothing Sir, the clogis yours." And then he gave me the end of bis garterhe Had tied tound its neck. “ You mult fuppofe me tobe very cruel, if you think me capable of depriving youof a faithful fuend, and of the only one you have in the- world,” laid I. He did not inflit any longer; but new. nted to return me the milerable crown I told himto keep the crown and the dog,and at laltgor the oeaer iof Is* refutance. ihen Ije cried out, “ On! Sir, I owe |amu mv life. It is hunger that has reduced me to this■ 'r'.' ^ -;• t' ( 8 )STOHV OP BENJAMIN EOi'E, ESO.THE USURER..Mr. Pope died in the Fleet Prifon, London, on the2d of Auguft 1794. in the 67th year of hh age, afterfuffering imprifonment eleven years and three months.He was originally a.tanner in Southwark, by London;and dealt fo largely and exteufively in this branch, thathis llcck in trade was for many years fuppoled to beworth fixty or feventy thonfand pounds.In the latter part of his time in this trade, and whenhe was well known to be worth lb much money as to bet ailed Plumb Pope, he took to the lending of money,diilountiiig, buying annuities, mortgages, See.tn this branch of butinefs it appears Mr. Pone was notfb fUccefsfal as in his former trade; for the name pfFope the Ufurer every now afid then appears in theproceedings of our courts of law when our Pages in theJaw commonly differed widely from Mr. Pone, in theiropinion of his pra&ices in this branch of bullnefs.The mod remarkable, and the iaft inltance of this forr,was, when he was calf in Ten thoufand Pounds il am agesfor fome ufurious or illegal pradHces in fome money-- tranfaftions with Sir Alexander Leith. This was gene¬rally thought a fmart fentence, and perhaps the wellknoynand well Jcouted charafter of the man contributed.not a little towards tt. Mr. Pope bimfelf t ho tight it fonppreiTive and unjuft, that lie never in his life, after wardsleft off complaining loudly,of r, and even printed a cafe.Jetting forth the great hardfhip and lofs he Juffered,At hrft Mr- Pope, to be up. with his plaintiftj wentabroad to France \yiih all his effects and property, wherea man of his advanced vears, ample,fortune, and withoutany family but his wife, a molt worthy and relpetftedwoman, might certainly have lived very comfortably :But Mr. Pope abroad was removed from bis triemf ndcoftomers; and his money being idle,'whichconfidered by him as a great misfor ncome home; and, to ihew hi:( 9 ) 'tn "ill UHS'opprctTioji, fuomitted if'• nnspr.t pailierthan pay the^da«nagp>. Tirs i-e di i moil heroic;.!;/,and has (utTered the io*g Misprillmtlitm of eleven yejfaanil three tnondis.In the cftni fe of this period, Mr. Pope** affairs worevety different comp'exions; -id at 6ne fmie he mighthave got his liberty for a thoufand po iijdi- hut he re¬mained indexible, rovl lent thetn woid, That inis wcu dbe acknowledgH’g the juftnefs of their debt, which he„ would die fbontr than do. And he l;ept his woYd.Mr. Pope, in prifo*!, had many opportunities of in.dulgtng thofe propenfities he had ati his life been re¬markable for. He looked rlvvays at the pint.p-ot ofiniall beer before he paid for it, to, fee that it w*t full;a tneafure that in him was lotilewhat exeuftble. a* thepint iafted him genera’ly two days, water being his com.ntpn drijpk; arid as to Jlrong beer, it tried to be a note ofadmiration among his fellow-prifoncis, when he drankany with them at their apartments; but as for his fendiiijsfor any for himfelf, of thaulic never was guiity. ^He always bought his three-farthing candle by weighttaking the heavielt of fix, eight or ten, Tor his .money. In a11 lhls near twelve years, he never had ajomt of meat at his table; his greatel! luxury was a rrroacp.ate from the cook’s (hop, and that ferved him for twonma s generally : but in thefe points he was nor much ata lots, lor la; family, though living at a f reat did-mceknowing of his penurious difpofition,v fenf to bini f ccg.cn. ly a very comfortable and proper fuppfy; and ontnete occations, he has even been known .muietimes tos«&rs* w"i5c,‘i"‘1 **w. ? ° c!o jli!‘ltc fe> eccentric a charaffer aa-Mr P , rtt is proper to date, that, while in trade, he had e' "jbegun the benevolent practice of giving away ever-week, a hone, and better, of mpat among hii wotkm 'uw d neighbours; and this ptad.ee l«1Mwrr kkrffn when he was every day weighing hj, cahule’.after the meafure of his find: beer. ’Ita( 10 )In many tranf ftions, Mr Pope fofftred various fraudjand impofKions in prifon . As lie had- not that ftope ofiuftoiners in his con tinea Uats, and always bent uponmaking the raeft of h;s tnoney. he was more eafiiy im-l ofed upon; fo that he is fbppofed to have loft, by fuchmeans, more money tl: ; would have paid his debt andcoib, large as they were.When Mr. Pope was told by his apothecary that hi*tLffoiution was rapid y approaching—f'Well, faid he,with a kind of lambent fmile, in that cafe 1 fhail wipecfta debt of ten thoufand pounds!” The fum for whichhe was confined.STORY OF JOHN MOUNSEY, ESQ,.Commonly called, King of Patterdale.John MotwsEY,' Efq; of Patrickdale, in-the parrfiij of Barton, county of Weftmoreland, commonly called,King of Patterdale, was a very extraordinary character,of whom the following is a fliort 'defcription.The owners of this place, for time immemorial, havebeen honoured with this appellation; a di(}in£tion whichprobably arofe from fomc of the property being allodial,as it is independent, and held of no fuperior. ^ "J he familyhive the titles of King, Queen, Prince, Prime h, and;! Dukes, fhe palace, pleaUntly fituate at the head ofthe lake U.fwater, makes but an indifferent appearance;ne«ie& for half a cemury hath left it almcft a ruin. _;To get money, with ;he ht<yowner, was a principlethat ahnoft abforbed every other idea. T his propenhty •1 broke out very early in life, and appeared on evts v oc- ,’ cation. The wild mountains, which almoft furrounU tne .j the village, afford the beautiful blue WeftmorTnd Hate,i and lead-ore in great abundance; and fome^nf diem are! covered with wood. Of wood and fine he had a ia, gn. ;fnare, moft of which was conveyed down the a:;; boats; and, wl?5n a bey, he could not be reltra;*{ the.drudgery of the oar.KL——     •-< - _( II )‘IFs brother, the Duke of Styhrow [ftylec]- fo fromSiybrowcraig, a tremendous tockv prec'pxe, burltin^ outinto the like near the village of Pa'terdak ] was noaovertf went; he was a fine jolly fellow; which made the”ol»i man, a refpectable country gcn'leman, in his mirth,ohierve,' “ He h. d three children of very different dif-pofttions; the o’.deR fon v/ould be drowned in (Jifwater,the other in the n>dh-iub, the daughter—the devilcould not brat her for pride.5’. No change took placein John’s manner of hfe, at leaftfor the better, at the death of his father, \ihieh broughtI him into the poffeflion of mote than three hundred poundsa yrar. He perfeverrd as if he daily dreaded the wantof the common neceffiries of life; no work or ffrdfldppvas too grtat for him : and he wtn In ky enough to en¬gage one Dick Pearfori, a true and trufty Have, into insh rvice. They loaded the boat, ro wed it down the lake,unloaded, and returned at all feafons of the year,-; nd attall times of the night/ Sometimes he would fieep inbarns, or other out-houfes; wheia a few pence wouldhave afforded him a comfortable bed in a public-houfe.In drefs, he was the figure of mifery itfelf; his {locking-heels were made cf flrong leather, his deaths patch uponpatch of any colour ; and, according to the cudona ofthe country, he were wooden Ihoes, or dogs, heavilyfiiod with iron.Nature had formed him for labour, of a rtrong rob albmake ; he was aimoft equal to any thing. He had ano¬ther happy rcqoTne, Ire wouM nevef flinch any weightlie was able to hand -unde r; and anecdotes are not" want¬ing of h.s extraordinary ftrength. A ftorm, however ■xvonld fet all his powers at defiance; ajid once, at leafl1the prediction of his father was nearly fulfilled/ He wasferrying a load of vvaud down the kite, with no otherhelp than his old companion Dick p.^ffon; a violent andunufu.il hurricane arofe, and they were every moment !in danger cf going to the bottom. To throw the wot cl 1‘bv'efboard was t< o great a (acrifice, though theirdives\vere itt' the nioft imminent danger- They were, how-evfryftlfortunate at to reach an ifiand,, a bare rock luff* ~—   -- - - - rifloiT . _y( 12 )rIfiog above the like. The ilorm increafed; fot t /'odays and nights they were expo fed to all its violence*a pile of (tones, which they inrluO'noufjy raifed, was theironly (belter J and here, it was laid, the Kong took careto fecure what, proysfion they had for his own life.—No one hid courage tn attempt their deliverance, not,vvithflanding the tempution of a cohfiderable rewanl,from the CKteen.Dowager, The ftorm at length abated,and they landed fafe This might have furnifhed himwith an ufeful lelfon. but it did not, for he never deiidedtill old age compelled him to flop.When he had particular bufinefs to tranfaft fromhome, where he faw the neceffity of appearing decent*he would call upon a friend on the road, with whom hscould take the liberty, and borrow his deaths. In twosor three days he reftored the loan, and returned home iin the drefs he fet out.Upon the mountains he had an extenfive right of com¬mon, and four ihillings was the price for a beaft-gate. ;When applications for joht were wanting, he would -travel the country on^foot, beajing tip for recruits —*In one oAurfion, it was remarked, he could only cqjled :one folitary heifer, which he drove himfdf from Alflon- (moor/Ci^nberiand, a diftance of near forty miles..From fuch a flrict ceconomy, it is not to be wondered .his property was dai'y accumulating. His bouTe keeping ,)t is fuppofed, never exceed’d thirty pounds a-year, feme,(ay not twenty pounds ; and his annual income, at the jLift, was at lead eight hundred pounds,—Indeed he fel-dom ate at home, as he let his jands by (lipulation ; hi!,tenants to give him fo much hard cafli and fomany meals $lone one a wet k, fotie more ; and he gene-ally took careto have thein before clue; even cockles, cabbage &C4by irtealine or count, bsciufs fometimes the con fid era-ction for a trifling rent. In fonjs things he would indulgeluvnfelf; he was-remark ibly fond of fugar, gingerbread,,and all kinds of fweetmeats, which he always kept inhis pocket; and in one tnllance he agreed with a tenant 1to fupply him with thirty fix p: nnds of fug.ir yearly.—To prevent the rdk of being robbed, he would frequentj:,*■' ; -V, . _ ' hh|.( *3 )iiide li:£ money in oid fione wails. Something or othercreated fufpicion, and he was watched. An induftriouswoman privately removed many a Hone with little or noPuccefs, but would not give it up: (lie had therefore re-courfe to ftr&tagem, jhe tumbled the Hones about as heapproached,'and ran off with the appearance of very greatfurprife, as if in pofl flicm of treafu e. Me was taken inthe fnare, and cal eu out he would give her one-half iffne would yeturn and deliver it up. This feint had theefFeet; (he was nnw convinced that near the place moneywas hid, and cook the opportunity, before his Majeftywas recovered from his c- nfternation, to make a morediligent fearch; and by this manoeuvre, which was inthe end fuccefsful, actually carried off rhe pt izi. Thathe recovered any part of money is not very probably:he had fuch an exedlive dread of law, that his fu‘ jeJtjmight alrnoR fay or do any thing with impunity.When his Majefty became more advanced in years,his drefs was ar leaft decent; he attended markets likea common farmer, and there was nothing in his appear¬ance to attract the notice of a flrauger. He ueverthe-Icfs ftudied cecanomy in every fhape, and to the lafi hadhis new (lockings lined with leather at the heels.Once he joined with a neighbour for a horl’e; but thepartnerfhip loon broke np: the poor animal, when upontravel, had a forry time of it; provender was force,and turnpike-gates caufed many a tedious journey; buta penny was laved-Riding one day to Peqruh-market, by the fide of UX-water, he made a fall (top. (hipped, and into the lakehe went. From the bottom he picked up an old flocking,which he careful.v examined. “ It might very likelyhave fbmething valuable in it, as it did not fwim to rhelida," was his reply to a clergyman who afterwardstjoined him upon the rood, and whi.fe cuiraftiy, from thisodd circurnftance, was net a little rei Ccf.Wilfon, fchoolmafter of Parerd 1c, aeled as his ffere-itary ; and tenpence was the price agreed upon for makingh:s wi.l. After the fuff, alterations, addunms and codi-tp.s became fo frequent, tiut V-'-lfon becamfi dtfplcaf.d- ■ —   • ”• tq( M )with the price, and got it raiftd to a fnillino-. He afier-wards made a bolder attempt, he afked hajf-a-crown :this was too ferioas, and another pcrfon was employed.- - ' iNot rasnyyaars ago, Lis majefty was lb ill, that hisrecovery was doubtful. His fun, the prince, advifcd himto leave two-hundred pounds to the poor ‘■ No, laid he,I have loll a great deal by the poor, but I never got anything by tfiMn in try Lfe,— Why leave any thing tothem f" But the amiable youth reafoning with him onthe awful feene before him, he gave way. “ Well, fayshe to his only child, his heir and executor, I will leaveone hundred, if you vvi 1 be fifty of it.,J Whether ever| in his life, b fore, he hit upon fo curious a method of' -cbeatink himfelf, is unknown. This was not the finiiliingof hi; reign ; he recovered, and, in his Spthyear, lamented ’ (!thc O or.nefs of life : “ Could we butv lays he to his old Efriend Wiifim, live to the age of M thufelah, we migltc »then have loms chance of getting rich ; but we no foonerfind ourfelves in the way. of getting a little together, thandeath comes upon us and Ipoils all/’ He diet but latelyj at Patterd de-hall, in the p2d year of bis age; and is fuc-ceeded in his title aad efface by his only child John, who ^' has a numerous family. (This young man is almoft adored in tlie place; and the >f writer of this can faithfully tellify, that he had the plea- *Pure of hearing the following remark, “ That, it'it was vpoftsble, he was too good.,,A gentleman pf his acquaintance once laid, that if he »was inclined to envy any potentate in Europe, it would 'be the Kmg of Patterdde. If this was the caiii?. duiing itlie life, of die late King, how much more fio now, when ifthis Prince has for (bine time lir.ee been lookrd upon as. fethe tutelar deity of the vale, whole chief ftndy it has been, xto render the snhabuants'more happy,eafy and contented!' *Extraffed from the Gentleman’s fvl ga/.ino. London. rSTORY cu t .( ‘5 )STORY OF HENRY THE Vlllih.KING OF ENGLAND.As King Henry VIII. was hunting in Wmdfor-fbreflone day, he defined to be kfc by himrelf. Upon which,he ftruck down about dinner-time to Reading, where hedifguife-d himfeif in the habit of a yeoman of the Kuh/’sguard; for one of whom, by his Itature and figure, hemight well pafs. He went td the abbey, and was in¬vited to dins at the Abbot’s table. A Sir-Loin of beefwas fee before him (fo knighted, faith tradition, by thisKing Henry) on which his Majefly laid on lufttly, notkhfgracing the coat of a king's beef-eater, for whom hewas taken. “ Well-fare thy heart, quoth the Abbot-land here is a cup of fack, I remember the health of hit[Grace your mailer. I would give an hundred poundsupon the condition that -I cou'd fired fo heartily on beefps you do. Alas! my we^k and fqueamifh fi. *- h wilthardly digeft the wing of a fmall rabbit or chicken "The Kmg merely pledged him, and heartily thanking himfor his goed cheer after dinner departed undifeevtr-d.Some weeks after, the Abbot was fent for by a king'smdlenger, brought up to London, clapped in the Tower’kept dofie prifoner, and fed for fevcral days with breadmd v/ater only. The Abbot’s mind was forely di/quietedwith thoughts and (ufpicions how he might have incur-*ed the King’s difpleafure. At h<l the day came on.vmch a oir-Loin of beef was fet before him; on which:he Abbot fed like a farmer of his grange, and .verifiedne proverb, that u two hungry meals make the third aputton.” In bolts King Henry, out of a private lobby,vhere he had placed him'h mfed the invifible fpsOator)f t.ie Aobot s beliaviour. “ My Led, quoch ths kingay down immediately your nuiidred pounds in gold, or“C ^ be n° gulnS henc£ f r you all the’days ofmur life, i have been your phyficisp; 1 have cured yonif your fqueamifh Uomach and here, as I dethrve I dcmud my reward for the fame,” ’^ i he Abbot, glad to efcap f<, depofited the cafii, andeturned to_Reading, murmuring, at the ieventy of theofior’s regimen, and the exorhuaDce of his feesRecipe for Lownefs of Spirits.Tike qne ounce of fp ritof refolfrioo, properly -r/xed■wicH'ihe oil of good confcienc' ic.fafe into it n fpoonfultjf the lilt of patience, dittil very carefully a compofiJigrrlaot called,'OTHERS woes, which ybu will find in everypart of the garden of life, growing under the broad leavesof df'-uife; fouie drops of this will very much a Hid thefults of patience in their operation ; gather a handful ofbi: llbrjis of hope, fweqteli thefe properly with the bainof providence, if you can procure any of the genuine cor-diakof true friendship^ you will have the mod vaiuab «medicine that can be adminiffertd; but take care of 2Counterfeit kind which is very common,* is en i.elv d f-ferent in ‘us nature, though very like it in its appearance,and whole proper name is felf-interelt; fmall drop ofthis poifonous plant is fuflicient to fpnil the whole com-T jfiuon—Make thefe ingredients into pills, which yob‘may ca ~ ,e pill's of comfort; take one every night as you11.■ down to reft, and when you awake in the morningComparifom of Drunkenntfs.dtm.k us an C'M-—as drunk as a few—as drunk asa beggar—as drunk as the Devil—as drunk as a Lord.Th^explanation of which is as follows.A man is as-drunk as an Owl, when he cannot fee :He is as drunk as a Sow, when he tumbles in the dir'tHe is as drunk as a Beggar, when he is very impudent 1He ia-as drunk as the Devil, when he u inclined to mrl~chief: And as drunk as a Lord, when he is every thingthat is bad. , . , . 1 ■ ,u c«An Irilh gentleman, previous to n trial rn "'.-Vs the de fendant, was informed by his counfel, that *1fiitre were any of the jury u> whom he had any perfonaabjections 10 legallychallenge then*; O yesyepw =the Irifhman, (o I will; if they non. t bring me efi handfWrtkly, I ihhi challenge every ins., of them.-finis.Falkirk, Printed by T. Johnfton; Of whom may be ha*lvariety cf Pamphlets & Ballads in whokfale St Ktnil.