GLASGOW:! PRINTED FOR THEJlOC'IiSELLERS.THE CONSORT OFI NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.[No. S.n.'EHISTORYOF THEEMPRESSOSEPHINEHISTORYOF THEEMPRESS JOSEPHINE.bject in private totestified her feailittle dreaming..;successor; whileeasiness tit the exBcauharnois, whtatives of the na:TbisgenciftKnone day become liea, 'ttvmced great r.n-lafe^fie marquis (lrepjesenThis distinguished lady was born on the 24th of June, 17liton the island of Martinique, and while very young was taketo France by her father to marry the viscount BeauharnoiTwo children were the fruits of this union, which during opperiod was not altogether felicitous. Certain suspicions todplace on the part of the husband, the tribunals were appealsto, and a separation was demanded. These at length decreethat the facts adduced were, too uncertain to obtain a decres}f so serious a nature, and the husband and wife were at lengt;prevailed upon to resume their former intercourse.They now re-appeared at court, where they had alwajbeen well received. Madame de Beauhamois, who wasgreat favourite with the queen, about this time began to bconsidered one of the handsomest women in the royal cudat Versailles, and entered into all the dissipations of thaperiod. But the assembling of the states-general, and thievents that already seemed to prognosticate an approachinrevolution, soon banished every idea of gaiety and pleasur.'ifrom the palace of ;'the jlfings of France. Her majesty often- .  Her owndnufendf-who haThoon feEsonw timea-bekf-Trand always evinced an eager desire for glory, was now ahouto join the army, in consequence of an unexpected declaratioiof war. He according!y.r<^aifgcU.d-.his regiment, and sooiattained, the rgnk of general. , Jhhajthough atdpdafdtn^ancbeloved hi turn by, Louis XVI.', he readily perceiveu u*.this monarch was destine I no distant period, to lo^c tha:HISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.3'hantom of power which he then enjoyed, together with hisife at one and the same' moment. When all this occurred,!h had been foreseen, M. do Bcduhamois himself was de¬nounced as an aristocrat by his own soldiers, deprived of hisIpmmission by superior authority, and conducted to Paris,•here he was placed in a state of arrest. Josephine, theusability of whose heart is well known, immediately inter-■d, and adopted every possible mode, both through thetedium of friends as well as by her own personal solicitations,I) obtain his liberty. Her husband, on his part, was deeplyoved by the affectionate attachment and unceasing assiduityhis wife, who was not only soon after denied the pleasureconsoling her unhappy husband, but actually deprived ofjer own liberty, having been seized and confined at the cou¬nt of the Carmelites. In the course of a few weeks, the[fortunate vicomte was carried before the revolutionaryibunal, which instantly condemned him to death.Dr. Memos has published so interesting an account of thepress Josephine, that we gladly avail ourselves of his valu-le “ Memoirs,” which throw much new light on the domesticsfe of this accomplished female. Josephine, we need not re-ind our readers, was a Creole. The native elegance of mindd manner so often possessed by these transatlantic Euro-leans, their aptness in the acquisition of all external accom-hshments, their warm temperament modified and restrainedy natural self-possession, are generally known :—“As regardsAccomplishments, she played, especially on the harp, and sung,ith exquisite feeling, and with science sufficient to rendertening an intellectual pleasure without exciting the surmiseat the cultivation of an attainment less showy, but more.luable, had been sacrificed. Her dancing is said to have beenJerfect. An eye-witnessdescribesherlight form, rising scarcelyrobove the middle size, as seeming in its faultless symmetry totioat rather than to move—the very personation of grace. Sheexercised her pencil, and—though such be now antiquatednr an elegante—her needle and embroidering frame, withrleautiful address. ‘ A love of flowers,’ that truly feminineaspiration, and, according fe a master in elegance and virtue.4 HISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.infallible index of purity of heart, was with her no unin¬structed admiration. She had early cultivated a knowledgeof botany, a study of all others especially adapted to the femalemind, which exercises without fatiguing the understanding,,and leads the thoughts to hold converse with heaven throughthe sweetest objects of earth. To the empress Josephine,France and Europe are indebted for one of the most beauti¬ful of vegetable productions—the Camelie. In all to whichthe empire of woman’s taste rightly extends, hers was ex¬quisitely just, and simple as it was refined. Her sense ofthe becoming and the proper in all things, and under everyvariety of circumstances, appeared native and intuitive,'She read delightfully ; and nature had been here peculiarlypropitious, for so harmonious were the tones of her voice,even in the most ordinary conversation, that instances are.common of those who, coming unexpectedly and unseen,within their influence, have remained as if suddenly fasci¬nated and spell-bound, till the sounds ceased or fears of dis- icovery forced the listener away. Like the harp of David on ;the troubled breast of Israel’s king, this charm is known tohave wrought powerfully upon Napoleon. His own admissionwren ‘ The first applause of the French people sounded in my ■car sweet as the voice of Josephine.’ ”A circumstance, trifling in itself, but for after events de- 'serves to be recorded here—the prophetic intimation to'iJosephine, when little advanced beyond childhood, of herfuture high destinies. We need not express our utter rejec-.,tion of the supposition that the prophetess believed her ownprediction. We see, in the course of Josephine’s story, thather remembrance of it aided to direct the course of events toits fulfilment. Still its coincidence, with a course of eventswhich could be so directed, remains a startling and unac¬countable fact.“ One day, some time before my first marriage, while takingmy usual walk, I observed a number of negro girls assembledround an old woman, engaged in telling their fortunes. Idrew' near to observe their proceedings. The old sybil, on .beholding me, uttered a loud exclamation, and almost byHISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.Mrce seized my hand. She appeared to be under the greatestiiptation. Amused at these absurdities, as I thought them,II allowed her to proceed, saying, ‘ So you discover somethingfKtraordinary in my destiny 2’—‘ Yes.’—‘ Is happiness orhiisfortune to be my lot V—‘ Misfortune. Ah, stop !—andiippiness too.’—‘ You take care not to commit yourself, myood dame ; your oracles are not the most intelligible.’—‘ In not permitted to render them more clear,’ said the woman,aising her eyes with a mysterious expression towards heaven.;jBut to the point,’ replied I, for my curiosity began to boxcited ; ‘ What read you concerning me in futurity 2’—What do I see in the future ? You will not believe me. if1 speak.’—‘ Yes, indeed, I assure you. Come, my good mother,s hat am I to fear and hope V— ‘On your own head be it then .ttsten: you will be married soon: that union will not becappy ; you will become a widow, and then-then you willc queen of France ! Some happy years will be yours; butxpou will die in an hospital, amid civil commotion.’M “ ‘ On concluding these words,’ continued Josephine, ‘ thelid woman burst from the crowd, and hurried away, as fast1 s her limbs, enfeebled by age, would permit. I forbade the!iystandees to molest or banter the pretended prophetessn this ridiculous predictiou; and took occasion, from theiteeming absurdity of the whole proceeding, to caution theroung negresses how they gave heed to such matters.’ ”T We have already stated that Josephine was arrested; and‘>he merited but dreadful end of Itobcspierre alone savedVladame de Beauharnois, with about seventy others, destinedibr the usual morning sacrifice to the “ deities of Reason and’devolution.” Had we not her own confession, it might beadeemed altogether incredible, that, under such circumstances,Toscphine’s thoughts should involuntarily revert to, anddwell upon, the singular prediction which has been reportediln the commencement of these mem ars. “ In spite of my¬self,” said the empress, long after, to her ladies, “ I inces-isantly revolved in my mind this prophecy. Accustomedthus to exercise imagination, every thing that had been toldme began to appear less absurd, and finally terminated iu6 HISTORY OP THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.my almost certain belief. One morning, the jailer enteredthe chamber, which served as a bedroom for the duchess.d’Aiguillon, myself, and two other ladies, telling me that hecame to take away my flock bed, in order to give it to an¬other captive. ‘ How give it ?’ eagerly interrupted Madamed’Aiguillon ; ‘is then Madame de Beauharnois to have a-better V—‘ No, no; she will not need one,’ replied the wretch,with aiuttrocious laugh ; ‘ she is to be taken to a new lodging,and from thence to the guillotine.’ At these words, my com¬panions in misfortune set up a loud lamentation. I consoled:them in the best manner I could. At length, wearied bytheir continued bewailings, I told them that there was noteven common sense in their grief; that not only should Inot die, but that I should become queen of France. ‘ Why,then, do you not appoint your household V asked Madamed’Aiguillon, with something like resentment. ‘ Ah ! that istrue—I had forgotten. Well, my dear, you shall be maid ofhonour ; I promise you the situation.’ Upon this the tearsof these ladies flowed more abundantly; for they thought, on'seeing my coolness at such a crisis, that misfortune had af¬fected my reason. I do assure you,” continued the empress,addressing the auditory, “that I did not affect a couragewhich I felt not; for I was even then persuaded that myoracle was about to be realized.”But we must now proceed to detail the means by which,the future empress of France escaped from the guillotine, be¬neath whose stroke her husband had suffered. The death'of Robespierre, and the reprieve, at least, of his victims, wasannounced to the prisoners next morning. Josephine thusstates the circumstances:—“ Madame d’Aiguillon, feelingherself ill from the thoughts of my approaching execution, soabruptly communicated, I drew her towards the window, whichI opened, in order to admit air. I then perceived a woman ofthe lower class, who was making many gestures to us, which wecould not understand. Every moment she caught and held upher gown, without our finding it possible tq comprehend hermeaning. Observing her to persevere, I cried out ‘ Robe’ (agown), on which she made a sign of affirmation. Then, takingHISTORY OF THT# EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.ip a stone, she put it in her apron, and again held up her gownR-.o us, raising the stone in the other hand ; 1 pierre' (stone),[ called out to her in return. Her joy was extreme on per-:eiving, to a certainty, that we at length understood her.hitting the stone into her gown, she, several times, and with;;reat eagerness, made the sign of cutting a throat, and fell.-dancing and shouting. At the very moment, we heard a,t noise in the corridor, and the formidable voice of theurnkey, who was speaking to his dog, and, in the act oflicking him away, cried out, ‘Go, you brute of a Robespierre !’Phis energetic phraseology proved we had nothing to fear, andtthat France was saved. In fact, a few minutes after, we be-idd our companions in misfortune burst into our apartment,;o give us the details of that grand event! It was the 9thChermidor ! My flock bed was restored to me, and, uponhis couch, I passed the most delightful night of my life. Ifell asleep, after saying to my companions,—1 You see I amlot guillotined—and I shall yet he queen of France.' ”We now come to the period of the marriage of Josephine,vith Napoleon, who was then but a young soldier of fortune,nlhe following letter will best shew the state of her affections(;owards Napoleon, and the views which induced her to accepti :ds hand:“ My dear friend,—I am urged to marry again: my friendsuxrausel the measure, my aunt almost lays her injunctionsj jpon me to the same effect, and my children entreat myrtcompliance. Why are you not here to give me your advice> a this important conjuncture ? to persuade me that I ought) ;o consent to an union, which mast put an end to the irk-iiiomeness of my present position ? Your friendship, in whichill have already experienced so much to praise, would renderiiy'ou clear-sighted for my interests ; and I should decide with-hout hesitation as soon as you had spoken. You have met^General Bonaparte in my house. Well!—he it is who wouldpsupply a father’s place to the orphans of Alexander de Beau-uhamois, and a husband’s to his widow.“ ‘ Do you love him ?’ you will ask. Not exactly. ‘ You(then dislike him V Not quite so bad; but I find myself inf?v'S HISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.that state of indifference which is any thing hut agreeable*and which, to devotees in religion, gives more trouble tharuall their other pecadilloes. Love, being a species of worship,!also requires that one feel very differently from all this ; andhence the need I have of your advice, which might fix theperpetual irresolution of my feeble character. To assume adetermination has over appeared fatiguing to my Creole su¬pineness, which finds it infinitely more convenient to followrthe will of others.“ I admire the general’s courage, the extent of his infor-imation—for, on all subjects he talks equally well—and thefcquickness of his judgment, which enables him to seize the*thoughts of others almost before they are expressed; but, Iconfess it, I shrink from the despotism he seems desirous oftexercising over all who approach him. His searching glances'has something singular and inexplicable, which imposes even ion our directors: judge if it may not intimidate a woman ! iEven—what ought to please me—the force of a passion,!described with an energy that leaves not a doubt of his sin-1cerity, is precisely the cause which arrests the consent I am Ioften on the point of pronouncing.“ Being now past the heyday of youth, can I hope long to :preserve that ardour of attachment which in the general re¬sembles a fit of delirium ? If, after our union, he shouldcease to love me, will he not reproach me with what he willhave sacrificed for my sake ? will he not regret a more bril-'!liant marriage which he might have contracted ! What shallI then reply ?—what shall I do ? I shall weep. Excellentresource ! you will say. Good heavens ! I know that all thiscan serve no end ; but it has ever been thus ; tears are theonly resource left me when this poor heart, so easily chilled,has suffered. . Write quickly, and do not fear to scold me :should you judge that I am wrong. You know that what¬ever comes from your pen will be taken in good part.“ Barras gives assurance that if I marry the general, hewill so contrive as to have him appointed to the command ofthe army of Italy. Yesterday, Bonaparte, speaking of thisfavour, which already excites murmuring qmong his fellow3History of thr empress Josephine. 9[soldiers, though it he as jet only a promise, said to me, ‘ Thinkhey, then, I have need of their protection to arrive at power 1[Egregious mistake ! They will all be but too happy one dayshould I condescend to grant them mine. My sword is byny side, and with it I will go far.’“What say you to this security of success ? Is it not a prootjf confidence^springing from an excess of vanity ? A generalpf brigade protect the heads of government! that, truly, is an•vent highly probable ! I know not how it is, but sometimesthis waywardness gains upon me to such a degree, that almost’ believe possible whatever this singular man may take it inlis head to attempt; and with his' imagination, who cancalculate what he will not undertake 1“ Here we all regret you, and console ourselves for yourprolonged absence only by thinking of you every minute, andI by endeavouring to follow you step by step through the beau-rjtiful country you are now traversing. Were I sure of meetingrcyou in Italy, I would get married to-morrow, upon condition:of following the general; but we might, perhaps, cross eachiiother on the route: thus I deem it more prudent to waitnfor your reply before taking my determination, Speed, then,'Cyour answer—and your return still more.”This is quite in keeping with Josephine’s character, as itfihas already been developed—gentle and elegant, but always[^self-possessed—weighing all her actions, both with a view to/i their consequences, and the light in which others would re-agard them—a character in which delightful natural disposi-itions were worked up into something highly artificial—o something which would have been yet more pleasing than iti was, but that the means by which it had been made so weretoo apparent.After her marriage witn Napoleon, sue remained some time[ in France, but afterwards joined her husband at Milan,' where she spent some of the happiest days of her life. Pre-. vious to Bonaparte ascending the throne of France, she wrotehim the following letter:—“ My Friend,—For the tenth time, perhaps, have I per-j used your letter, and must confess that the amazement intoJM tllSTOHY OP THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.which it threw me subsides only to give place to sorrow amiapprehension. You persist, then, in the resolution to re-esttablish the throne of France, and yet not to restore those whit*were deposed by the revolution, but to seat yourself thereon ;iWhat power, you ask—what grandeur—and above all, whaiiadvantage—in this design ? And, for my part, I venture t<{reply, what obstacles present themselves to its success—howgreat the sacrifices which must be made before its accom-iiplishment can be secured—how far beyond calculation thaconsequences, should it be realized ! But let us admit thatiyour purpose does succeed, will your views terminate with.;the founding of a new empire ? Will not your power, opposed.;as to a certainty it must be, by the neighbouring states, drawjyou into a war with them ? This will probably end in theiriruin. AVill not their neighbours, beholding these effects,t■'ombine in turn for your destruction 1 While abroad sucbiis the state of things, at home how numerous the envious)and discontented—how many plots to disconcert and ccn-|spiracies to punish ! Kings will despise you as an upstart,!the people will hate you as an usurper, your equals as a tyrant jinone will comprehend the utility of your elevation, all will lassign it to ambition or to pride. Doubtless, there will not Ibe wanting slaves who will cringe to your power, until backed :iby another, which they esteem a more formidable influence, ]they will seek to elevate themselves on your ruin. Fortunate ;1also beyond hope, if steel—if poison !—a wife, a friend, darenot give pause to alarmed imagination on images so dreadful.This brings me to myself, a subject about which my concernwould be small indeed if I only were interested. But withthe throne, will there not likewise arise the desire of newalliances 1 AVill you not consider it necessary, by new familyties, to provide for the more effectual security of that throne ?Oh! whatever such connexions might be, could they prove,like those formed at first in propriety, and which affectionsthe most tender have since consecrated ! I stop at this per¬spective, which fear—must I say love—traces in an appallingfuturity. You have alarmed me by your ambitious flight:restore my confidence by your return to moderation.”111.1 TORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE. 11Like all Cassandras, she was unheeded. Bonaparte hadqas little of the^elf-tormentir.g metaphysics and cold relent-iings of Maehcth, as Josephine of the masculine spirit of hisspouse. The day came which was to realize the dream thathad haunted her from her youth. Dr. Memes’s picture of9. her coronation is one of his most fortunate efforts:—“At eleven precisely, the cavalcade moved from the Tuil-llleiies towards Notre Dame. The imperial carriage, drawn byheight bays, attracted general attention: it had been con-dstructed for the occasion, in a very ingenious manner, then entire panelling being of glass, a circumstance which accountsicfor the mistake of their majesties having seated themselvesi{ like criminals, with their backs to the horses ; but where solimany omens and predictions have figured, it is surprisingif that the fact has been omitted. Josephine was the first toi. discover this error, which she instantly rectified, by lightlya assuming the proper position ; saying at the same time to herUcompanion, ‘Mon ami, unless you prefer riding vis-a-vis,if this is your scat,’ pointing to the rich cushion on the right.? Napoleon, laughing heartily at his blunder, moved to thoi place indicated. The procession advanced, attended by tend thousand horsemen, the flower of 1 Gallic chivalry,’ who de¬li filed between double lines of infantry, selected from then bravest soldiers, extending about a mile and a half, whilenmore than four hundred thousand spectators filled up every'I space whence a glance could be obtained. The thunders ofn innumerable artillery, the acclamations of the assembleda multitude, expressed the general enthusiasm ; and, as if toplight up the gorgeous spectacle, the sun suddenly broked through the mists which till then had hung heavily over the: city. The cortege stopped at the archiepiscopal palace, whence. a temporary covered gallery, hung with the banners of thei sixteen cohorts of the ‘ legion of honour,’ conducted into then interior of the cathedral and to the throne. To this latter* was an ascent of twenty-two semicircular steps covered withk blue cloth, gemmed with golden bees, and crowded with ther; grand officers of the empire. On the throne, itself hung withr crimson velvet, under a canopy of the same, appeared Napo12 HISTORY OP TITF. EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.Icon, with Josephine on his left, attended by the princesse*of the empire, and on his right, his two brothers, with thtflarch-chancellor and arch-treasurer. The religious ceremonycontinued nearly four hours, enlivened by music compose^for the occasion chiefly by Pacsiello, and sung by upwards oiithree hundred performers. The martial band was still more*numerous, which executed, in the intervals, marches, after¬wards adopted and still used in the armies of France. Onuof these, composed by Le Pour, for the army destined to in¬vade oiir own shores, when now performed for the first time,*is said to have aroused a visible emotion even in that augusaassembly. Alas! how cold are the' hearts that then beathigh with hope ! how few, how very few survive of those up¬on whom the impulse wrought most stirringly! and, frointthe banks of the Tagus to the streams of the Volga, how.varied the clime that settles on their graves ! Yet not manyyears have passed—the story is contemporary history—the*grand actor might have been amongst us not an aged man:be the moral, therefore, more impressively ours. Were allsuch thoughts of this life’s greatness absent from Josephine’smind ? It would appear not. Napoleon, at that part of theceremony, stood up, laid bis hand upon the imperial crown,—a simple diadem of gold wrought into a chaplet of inter¬woven oak and laurel,—and placed it on his head. He hadeven given express directions that Pius should not touch it.Popes had pretended that all crowns were bestowed by them;and perhaps the new emperor dreaded the belief that he hadbrought his holiness from Rome with reference to these ancientpretensions. He wished, therefore, to demonstrate that theright to reign originated in his own power, and that at hiscoronation the pope was hut the bishop of Rome. Afterwards,Napoleon took the crown destined for the empress, and firstputting it for an instant on his own, placed it upon his con¬sort’s brow, as she knelt before him on the platform of thethrone. The appearance of Josephine was at this momentmost touching. Even then she had not forgotten that shewas once ‘an obscure woman;' tears of deep emotion fellfrom her eyes ; she remained for a space kneeling, with handsHISTORY OP THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE. 13crossed upon her bosom, then slowly and gracefully rising,fixed upon her husband a look of gratitude and tenderness.Napoleon returned the glance. It was a silent hut consciousinterchange of the hopes, the promises, and the memories ofyears!”The ridicule which has attached to the manners of Na¬poleon’s court has been greatly exaggerated, and from evi¬dent design, in writings published by renegade courtierssince the restoration. We have Josephine’s own authority',whose judgment and taste are indisputable, that the emperorhimself, from the first, observed with ease the habitudes ofhis rank. “ Most certainly,” such are her own words whenconversing in the little circle of her own exiled court, “ most' truly do I regard the emperor as a man who has no equal.In camps, at the council board, they find him extraordinary,but in the interior of his palace he ever appeared to mestill more remarkable. I confess that, notwithstanding myexperience of the world and its usages, the commencementof the imperial forms embarrassed me. The emperor, on thecontrary, made a sport, a pleasure of them ; and in all thepalace, he alone, beyond contradiction, best understood theirobservances. Lannes, who enjoyed full licence of speech,made mockery of what he termed ‘ the hypocrisies of politicalworship ;’ but estimating such things at their real value, theemperor regards them under relations more elevated, andconceives that in the eyes of the people they conduce to re¬store to power the majesty and ascendancy which so manyyears of anarchy had destroyed. He grants, in truth, thattheir principal influence springs from the personal qualitiesof those invested with the supreme rule ; but he maintainsthat, without equalling or superseding these qualities, cere¬monial institutions may supply their place with advantage.In supporting such a system, Napoleon shews himself at leastvery disinterested ; for who can stand less in need of appli¬ances to impose upon men than one who seems born to govern 1In proof of his argument, he adduces the example of a crowd>f of princes who have reigned, so to speak, rather seated orlying than standing upright, hut whose couch, guarded by14 HISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.the barriers of etiquette* lias been respected like a sanc¬tuary.”Josephine, on all occasions, evinced a strong desire to be .permitted tc accompany her husband on his military expe¬ditions. On his part, Napoleon loved to indulge this wish ;and they differed only as to its being always possible. On ione occasion, however after promising to take the empress,something having occurred to alter his intention, and to re¬quire speed, he resolved on departing privately without hiscompanion. Fixing, accordingly, one o’clock in the morning, 'the hour when she was most likely to be asleep, for the time [■of setting out, he was just about to step into the carriage, :when Josephine, in a most piteous plight, threw herself into :his arms. By some means, she had obtained information ofwhat was going forward, and called her women ; but impa- |tient of any delay, had got up without waiting for them, and |throwing about her the lirst drapery she could lay hands up¬on, had rushed down stairs. A moment later, and Napoleonwould have been off like lightning; but he could rarely with¬stand the tears of his wife, so, placing her along the bottomof the carriage, he covered her with his travelling pelisse,giving orders himself about the clothes and proper attendantsof the empress.But we must now revert to the domestic privacy of the jempress. “ From about midday till half-past two or threeo’clock was passed by the empress in her apartments, work¬ing, conversing, and reading with her ladies. We have al¬ready mentioned how beautifully Josephine embroidered,and this accomplishment continued to be her chief amuse-meat, much of the most splendid furniture in the various ;palaces being covered with pieces executed by her own hand,with the assistance of her ladies. While the rest were atwork, one of the ladies, permanently appointed to the office jof reader, read aloud at such times as conversation was notpreferred. When any literary production gave more thanusual pleasure, it was immediately begun from the commence- jinent, and perused asecond time. The volumes selected wereinteresting but useful books; from the standard writers, and .HISTORY OP THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE. loall new publications of repute. Works of taste and imagina¬tion constituted, of course, a large portion of these public read¬ings ; novels, however, unless in particular instances, wereexcluded. Napoleon, indeed, disliked to see novels any whereabout his palaces; and traversing the antechambers, if hefound any of his attendants reading, he seldom failed to exa¬mine the book, and if a novel, condemned it to the flameswithout mercy. The individual, too, was sure of a lecture,which usually began with the question,—‘ So, you could findno better reading than that ?’ While the empress and herladies were engaged as described, the emperor was in the habitof looking in upon the fair party at intervals throughout themorning. On these occasions, he is described as being ex¬tremely amiable, amusing, and in high spirits ; for he rarelyvisited the saloon in the morning unless when in good humour,or, in his own phrase, ‘ when things went well.’ Josephine,too, though more rarely, would venture into his cabinet; butivhen he required her presence for any conference of import¬ance, Napoleon knocked at the little door of private commu¬nication. The empress joyfully obeyed the signal; and theseinterviews, generally taking place in the evening, were oftencontinued so long, that on returning she found all her ladiesasleep.”A favourite amusement of Josephine and Napoleon was agame called “ prisoners”—the same as what our schoolboys callFrench and English,” or “ Deals.” There is somethingvery striking in the account of the last opportunity they hadof indulging in this relaxation :—“ The interval between the15th of August and the 27th of September, when the inter¬view at Erfurth took place, was passed chiefly at St. Cloud,and might nearly be called the last of Josephine’s happinessin Napoleon s society. Only a few days before his departure,Josephine and Napoleon, with their usual familiars, played afinal game at the favourite amusement of * prisoners.’ Itwas dark night before the party finished, and footmen withtorches were in attendance, to give light to the players. Theeffect could not have been without interest the blaze of thetorches now throwing bold, broad, and rich illumination upon1 6 HISTOIIY OP THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.the illustrious group as tfie}' assembled in front of the chateau,previous to each run, again flinging scattered and flickeringlights upon the lawn, the trees, flowers, and rich dresses of •the ladies, as the torch-bearers dispersed, following irregularlythe course of the runners. How ch >sejy resembling the livesof some of the noblest there,—this crossing, commingling, ,disappearing, sometimes in light, anon in darkness ; here allstarting away amid brightness and expectation-—there, a figureoutstripping all others, only to be lost in gloom ! Napoleon,as usual .fell, though only once, as he was running for Josepbine. |Being thus taken captive, he was placed in ban, which he brokeas soon as he recovered breath, set again to running, and releas¬ed the empress amid loud huzzas from his own, and shouts of‘ fair play’ from the opposite party. Thus ended the last re- :petition of youthful sports.”From what we have seen of the domestic life of Napoleonand Josephine, no doubt can be entertained of his attachmentto that lady. But bis mind was constantly haunted bydreams of ambition. lie panted for an heir, and wishedthat the mother should be eminently illustrious in point of ,birth, so that mankind might be inspired with respect bothfor himself and his progeny. Accordingly, in an evil hour, .he pitched on a daughter of the emperor of Austria, and re- |solved on divorcing a consort whose marriage had been ;“secretly blessed by the pope,” who had been crowned by ;bis holiness, who bad been the wife of Napoleon during four- |teen, whole years, and who could not be separated from him ;without a breach of his own express law, prohibiting every jthing of this kind in the imperial family.No sooner was this design resolved upon, than tne neces- ^sity for communicating the painful fact to Josephine became Iapparent. The 30th of November, 1809, airived, whichNapoleon appears to have destined for declaring his final de¬termination to Josephine. She bad wept all day ; they we reto dine together as usual, and, to conceal her tears, the em¬press wore a large white hat, fastened under the chin, wliica, ;with its deep front, shaded the whole of the upper part ofthe face. Napoleon, also, had shewn marks of the strongestHISTORY OR TUE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE. 17agitation ; lie scared) spoke to any one, but, with arms fold¬ed, continued at intervals to pace his library alone; fromtime to time a convulsive movement, attended with a hecticflush, passed for an instant across his features ; and at table,when he raised his eye, it was only to look by stealth uponthe empress with an expression of the deepest regret. Thedinner was removed untouched—neither tasted a morsel; andthe only use to which Napoleon turned his knife was to strikemechanically upon the edge of his glass, which he appearedto do unconsciously, and like one whose thoughts were pain¬fully pre-occupied. Every thing during this sad repast seemedto presage the impending catastrophe. The officers of thecourt, even, who wore in attendance, stood in motionless ex¬pectancy, like men who look upon a sight they feel portends►r evil, though what they know not; not a sound was heardf beyond the noise of placing and removing the untasted viands,s( and the monotonous tinkling already noticed ; for the emperorI spoke only once to ask a question, without giving any atten¬tion to the reply. We dined together as usual,” saysJosephine ;I struggled with my tears, which, notwithstand¬ing every effort, overflowed from my eyes; I uttered not a!| single word during that sorrowful meal, and he broke silencebut once, to ask an attendant about the. weather. My sun-s shine, I saw, had passed away ; the storm burst quickly.I Directly after coffee, Bonaparte dismissed every one, and II remained alone with him. The evident change in Bonaparte’so domestic arrangements, which on this day first took place,s seemed to indicate to Josephine that her cares were no longeri indispensable to the happiness of her husband. She had1 risen as usual from the table with Napoleon, whom she slowlyt followed into the saloon, and with a handkerchief pressedT upon her mouth, to n. in the sobbing which, though in-s audible, shook her whole frame. Pitcovering, by an effort, heri self-command, Josephine prepared to pour out the coffee,when Napoleon, advancing to the page, performed the office1 for himself, casting upon' her a regard remarked even by theit attendants, and which seemed to fall with stunning import,1 for she remained as if stunified. The emperor having drank,I*18 - HISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.returned the cup to the page, and by a sign indicated hiswish to be alone, shutting with his own hand the door of thesaloon. In the dining-room, separated by this door, thereremained only the count de Beaumont, chief chamberlain,who continued to walk about in silence, and the favouritepersonal attendant of the emperor, both expecting some ter- irible event—an apprehension which was but too speedilyconfirmed by loud screams from the saloon.We know, from Josephine’s own words, what passed dur¬ing this secret interview. “ I watched in the changing ex¬pression of his countenance, that struggle which was in hissoul. At length, his features settled into stern resolve. Isaw that my hour was come. His whole frame trembled ; heapproached, and I felt a shuddering horror come over me.He took my hand, placed it upon his heart, gazed upon mefor a moment, then pronouneed these fearful words,—‘ Jo¬sephine ! my excellent Josephine! thou knowest if I haveloved thee ! To thee—to thee alone do I owe the only mo¬ments of happiness which I have enjoyed in this world. Jo¬sephine ! my destiny overmasters my will. My dearestaffections must be silent before the interests of France!’—‘ Say no more,’ I had still strength sufficient to reply: ‘ Iwas prepared for this, but the blow is not less mortal.’ MoreI could not utter; I cannot tell what passed within me. Ibelieve my screams were loud. I thought reason had fled. JI became unconscious of every thing; and, on returning tomy senses, found I had been carried to my chamber.”When Josephine thus fainted, Napoleon hastily openedthe door of the saloon, and called to the two individuals who jremained in the dining-room. The opening of the door al¬lowed them to see the empress on the floor, insensible, yet ,still speaking in broken murmurs—“ Oh, no! you cannotsurely do it!—you would not kill mo!” M. de Beaumontentered on a sign from his master, and lifted in his arms thehapless Josephine, now perfectly unconscious of all that waspassing. The emperor himself, taking a taper from the chim-ncypiece, lighted the way through a dark passage, whencethere was a private staircase to the empress’s sleeping-room.HISTORY OE THE EMf*UE*S JOSEPHINE. 19At first, he had merely said that she had had a nervous attack,but in his increasing agitation allowed ' me expressions toescape, whence the count first clearly perceived the nature ofJosephine’s calamity. When they had thus attained theprivate staircase, it appeared too steep and narrow for M. deBeaumont, unassisted, to attempt to bear the empress downwith safety. Napoleon then called the keeper of the port¬folio, whose duty it was to be in constant attendance at thedoor of the cabinet, which also opened upon the coni dor.Giving the taper to this attendant, and directing him toprecede, the emperor himself supported Josephine’s limbs,and, descending last, the party thus attained the door of herbedroom. Here Napoleon dismissed both his companions,and laying the empress on the bed, rang for her women, who,on entering, found him hanging over her with an expressionI of the deepest anxiety.On the IGth of the following December, Napoleon assem¬bled all the members of the senate, including the kings ofWestphalia and Naples, the grand admiral, the prince viceroyof Italy, the arch-chancellor of state, the prince vice-cen-| stable, <fec. After the usual ceremonies, a project of a “ Scna-il tus Consultum” was read, respecting a dissolution of thea marriage between the emperor Napoleon and the empressij Josephine.This deed of separation required by the two high contract-i ing parties themselves, and approved of by a family council,Sat which all the princes and princesses of the imperial familythen at Paris had assisted, received, on the same day, the as¬sent of the senate, after having been duly examined by a! special commission. Jean-Jaques Bcgis Cambaceres, princearch-chancellor of the empire, then stated, that, on the pre¬ceding day, he had visited the palace of the Tuillcries, attend-fj ed by Michael Louis Etienne Kegnault de St. Jean d’Angoley,! count of the empire, minister of state, and secretary of stateto the imperial family. On being introduced to the grandcabinet of the emperor, he there found his majesty the em¬peror and king, with her majesty the empress, attended bytheir majesties the kings of Holland, Westphalia, and Naples.20HISTORY OF Till! EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.His imperial majesty then addressed him in a speech in whichhe stated as follows:—“ The politics of my monarchy, theinterests and the wants of my people, which have constantlyspaded all my actions, require that after me I should leavechildren, inheritors of my love for my people, and of thatthrone on which Providence has placed me. Notwithstand¬ing this, for several years past I have lost the hope of hav¬ing children by my marriage with my well-beloved consort,the empress Josephine. This circumstance alone inducesme to sacrifice the sweetest affections of my heart, in orderto attend to nothing hut the good of the state; and with thisview I now wish the dissolution of my marriage. Arrived atthe age of forty years, I may indulge the hope of living longenough to educate, in my own views and sentiments, the chil¬dren which it may please Providence to give me. God onlyknows how much such a resolution has cost my heart; hutthere is no sacrifice bej'ond my courage, when it is proved tome to be necessary to the welfare of France.”The empress-queen then spoke as follows :—“ By the per¬mission of our dear and august consort I ought to declare,that not preserving any hope of having children, which mayfulfil the objects of his policy and the interests of France, Iam pleased to afford him the greatest proof of attachmentand devotion which has ever been given on earth. I possessall from his bounty ; it was his hand which crowned me, andseated me on a throne, and I have received nothing but proofsof affection and love from the French people. I think Iprove myself grateful in consenting to the dissolution of amarriage which heretofore was an obstacle to the welfare ofFrance, by depriving it of the happiness of being one day go¬verned by the descendants of a great man, evidently raisedup by Providence to efface the evils of a terrible revolution,and to re-establish the altar, the throne, and social order.But the dissolution of my marriage will in no degree changethe sentiments of my heart. The emperor will ever find inme his best friend. I know how much this act, demanded bypolicy and by interests of a high nature, has effected my heart;out both of us exult in the sacrifice which we make for theHISTORY OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE. 21good of the country.” The instrument for dissolving theinanhge was then signed by the following personages:—Kapoleon, Josephine, Madame, (the mother of Bonaparte)Louis, Jerome Napoleon, Joachim Napoleon, Eugene Napo¬leon, Julie, Hortense, Catherine, Pauline, Caroline.Josephine now withdrew from the palace of the Tuilleries,and retired once more to Malmaison, where she was visiteddaily by Bonaparte until the period of his nuptials.Henceforward, Josephine’s life was passed alternately atMalmaison and Navarre, and, gliding away in an equal tenor) of benevolent exertion and elegant employment, oilers but1 few incidents. A description of one day is the account of all.1 The villa of Malmaison, to which she first retired, from itst vicinity to Paris, might be regarded as her residence of cere-i mony. Here she received the visits, almost the homage, ofIthe members of the court of Napoleon and Maria Louisa;for it was quickly discovered that, however unpleasant theyi might be to her new rival, such visits were recommendationsJ to the emperor’s favour. A little after nine, these receptions1 took place ; and from the visitors of the morning were retain-| ed, or previously invited, some ten or twelve guests to break-i fast at eleven. From the personages present being alwaysr among the most distinguished in Parisian society, and appear-il ing only in uniform or official costume, these morning partiesn were equally agreeable and brilliant. After breakfast, the em-q press adjourned to the saloon, where she conversed for about.£ an hour, or walked in the delightful gallery adjoining, whichcontained many of the masterpieces of painting and sculp-il ture. Of these, a few were ancient, but the greater number7i were the works of living artists, the most distinguished of?/ whom were not without obligations to the patronage ofl Josepliine ; and while Gros, Girodet, Guerin, with theirq pencils, Spontini, Mehul, Paer, Boieldieu, with their voice ortl lyre, Fontanes, Arnault, Andrieu, Lemcreier, with their pento or conversation, and Cun ova with his chisel, adorned the9 gallery or the parties of Maimaison, they ranked among theq personal friends of the mistress of the retreat. The arrivalo of the carriages was the signal for the departure oi the morn-2yHISTORY OP THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.v.ing visitors; amt after a drive of a couple of hours in thepark, the empress and her suite retired to dress for dinner,to which never less than from twelve to fifteen strangers satdown. The evening passed in amusement, conversation, andmusic, and was always very gay, owing to the number ofvisitors from Paris. At eleven, tea, ices, and sweetmeatswere served ; and at midnight, the empress retired. The ;apartments in which these re-unions took place were elegantand spacious, the furniture being covered with needleworkon a ground of white silk, wrought by the empress and herladies; but the residence altogether was small, an inconve¬nience still further increased through Josephine’s venerationof every thing that had been Napoleon’s. The apartmentwhich he had occupied remained exactly as he had left it;she would not sutler even a chair to be moved, and indeedvery rarely permitted any one to enter, keeping the key her- 'self, and dusting the articles with her own hands. On thetable was a volume of history, with the page doubled downwhere he had finished reading; beside it lay a pen with theink dried on the point, and a map of the world, on which hewas accustomed to point out his plans to those in his confi¬dence, and which still shewed on its surface many marks ofhis impatience;—these, Josephine would not allow to betouched on any account. By the wall stood Napoleon’s camp-bed, without curtains ; and above continued to hang such ofhis arms as he had placed there. On different pieces of fur¬niture were flung various portions of apparel, just as he hadused them last ; for, among his other extraordinary ways, hehad a practice, on retiring to rest, of flinging rather than tak¬ing oft' his clothes, casting down a coat here, a vest there,usually pitching his watch into the bed, and his hat andshoes into the farthest comer of the apartment.The close of Josephine’s life is thus described by Dr. Meines:—“ A variety of grievances preyed upon Josephine’s spirits,but without producing any appearance of disease till the 4thof May, when she dined at St. Leu with Hortense, Eugene,and the emperor of Russia. On returning to Malmaison, shefelt a general uneasiness, which, however, yielded to someUrSTORY OF THU EMPRESS JOSEPHINE. 23gentia medicine, and the eiujji-e»s resume i her ordiiiury occu-liatwns, though evidently without the usual enjoyment.Some days after, Lord Beverley, with his two sons, break¬fasted at Malmaison ■ ami to this nobleman Josephine ex¬pressed herself warmly on the generosity of the English, whoat that time, she said, alone spoke of Kapoleon in a becomingmanner. She complained bitterly of the ingratitude of thosewho, not satisfied with abandoning his falling fortunes, over¬whelmed his memory with calumny. On the 10th, Alexander,with several distinguished foreigners, dined at Malmaison.Josephine, despite a headache and cold shiverings, which shelaboured to conceal, did.the honours of the table, and in theevening attempted even to take a part in a game of ‘ prison¬ers!’ on the beautiful lawn in front of her residence. Toanxious enquiries, however, she continued to reply, with a faintsmile, which belied the assurance,4 that she was only fatigued,and would be well to-morrow.’ To-morrow came, but Jo¬sephine was evidently worse; and for fourteen days, her com¬plaint, without assuming any definite form, or rendering abso¬lute confinement necessary, was frequently attended at nightwith fainting, and sometimes a wandering of the mind, morefrom anxiety than delirium. On the 24th, the empress had aslight attack of sore throat, but otherwise railed so much as toiusistonru.eivmg theemperorofUussiuand thekingof Prussia,who were engaged to dine with her on that day. She did, ac¬cordingly, appear, hut was forced to retire; and Hortense,wlro never left Malmaison during her mother’s illness, took herplace at. table. Thenceforward, the disease assumed a mostalarming character, exhibiting symptoms of a gangrenous *quinsy, audits progress became fearfully rapid. On the morn¬ing of the 25th, Alexander returned, and, filled with anxietyat tire alteration in Josephine’s appearance, requested per-jjiission to send his own physician. This the empress declin-e$wfeftij.she was attended by her own, and the two physicianst^ic households of her son and daughter. On thefrfgUk a blister was applied between the shoul¬ders, and synapisnjjbfqrjfyq feet; but though these gave somerelief from pain, they effected no impression on the disease.24 history or the empress Josephine.Sti!!, Josephine, with the same angelic sweetness which hadmarked her whole life, endeavoured, by concealing her suffer¬ing, to soothe the anxiety of her surrounding friends. Fromthe morning of the 20'th, she appears to have been perfectlysensible of her danger; for, looking then steadily upon the phy¬sician, and perceiving his alarm, she silently pressed his handin token of consciousness and acquiescence. She even tookan interest in her former occupations ; and on the 27th, wheninformed that the celebrated flower-painter, Redoubte, hadcome to draw two favourite plants in flower, she sent for him,extended her hand, then pushed him gently away, saying,‘ You must not catch my sore throat, for next week’ (thiswas on Wednesday) ‘ I hope to see you advanced with afresh masterpiece.’ The preceding night had passed in alethargic sleep ; and at ten in the morning of the 28th, thephysicians, after consulting, deemed it proper to prepareEugene and Hortense for the final change. From those twocherished beings, whom she had loved so truly, Josephineheard a communication which thus lost all its bitterness.With pious resignation she received the last rites of theRomish faith from the ministration of her grandchildren’spreceptor, for the parish clergyman of Ruel happened to beabsent. Late on the same day, the emperor Alexander ar¬rived, and was shewn into the chamber of the sufferer, nowevidently approaching the goal of all her sorrows. By thebed of their mother knelt Eugene and Hortense, too deeplymoved to address the emperor; but at sight of a monarchwhom she regarded with gratitude, Josephine seemed to ac¬quire renewed strength, made a sign for all to approach, andsaid,—‘At least I shall die regretted ; I have always desiredthe happiness of France; 1 did all in my power to contributeto it; and I can say with truth to all of you now present atmy last moments, that the first wife of Napoleon nevercaused a single tear to flow.’ These were her last words, forshe fell immediately after into a slumber, which continued,uninterrupted by a scarcely audible sigh, till half-past elevenon the morning of the 29th of May, when her gentle spiritcalmly passed to a world of k ve and peace,”