ANTIDOTEAGAINST! THEInfectious ContagionOFPopery and Tyranny.'Humbly offer’d inAn Admonitory LETTER from aPresbyterian Society in Ed'm-*burglii^Qjfhtxx Friends in Town andtouching the prefent IN¬TESTINE WAR.Ifaiah viii. 9, 10.AJfociate yourfelves, o ye People, and ye {hall be brt~ken in Piecei.— Take Counfel togetherj and it Jhaltcome to nought; /peak the Word, and it {hall not.(land: For God is with us.EDINBURGH,Printed in die Year M.DCCJCLV.{ 3 )A NANTIDOTEAGAINST THEInfeBious Contagion of PopCtJ) an4€g*annp.Humbly offer’d inAn Admonitory LETTER from a Pres¬byterian Society in Edinburgh, to theirFriends in Town and Country, touchingtheprefent INTESTINE WAR.Gentlemen and Felltw-Chriftians,TH E imminent Danger which the Prote-itant Religion, our Sovereign K. George,and the Realms of Britain and Ireland,are in, thro’ the Pretenfiofls of the Che¬valier de St. George to Our Crown ; Thefad Condition of the City of Edinburgh and thelothians in particular, and all Scotland in general,unjuftly invaded by, and groaning under the grie¬vous OppreiTion of, the Son of the faid Chevahc^,fupported efpecially by our Efan-Wkg Brethren theHighlanders, who, according to their wonted Ava¬rice, are devouring our Subftancc, and inflavingmany of our Perfoas; The great Silence of manyA i (who(who fhould fry aloud) thro’ fear of the Violenceof the Enemies, conftant Contemners of God’s Or¬dinances, and Haters of ferious Godlinefs; The in¬evitable Hazard that many are in, of being compel¬led or feduced into a Compliance with their perni¬cious Courles; The innocent Blood of our Brethren,murdered at Gladfmuir by thefe jnercilefs Highlan¬ders The Mifery of the Multitude of Prifoners,inhumanely and barbaroufly ufed by them; Andthe bound Duty incumbent upon us to ufe oqr ut-moft Endeavours for preferving ourfelves and ourPofterity from being funk in the dark Dungeon ofPopery, and bound down with the heavy Chains ofTyranny and Slavery; DO call aloud to all whoare not intoxicate with the Wine of Babylon’s Forni¬cation,' and benummed with an Afs-like Stupidity,to awake to a Confideration thereof: For who is wife,and he fhall underftand thefe Things ? prudent, andhe (hall know them ? for the Ways of the Lord areright, and the Juft Jhall walk in them ; but the Tranf-greffors fhall fall therein: And the Wicked Jhall dowickedly, and none of them Jhall underftand.That which we would with a Brevity fuiting theBounds of a Miffive, and Meeknefs becoming Bre¬thren, appeal to your Knowledge and Experiencefor the Truth of, is,ift. To prefent yot] with fome of thefe Reafonsthat induce us to look upon the prefent Attempt tofet the Chevalier upon the Throne of Britain as theLord’s terrible Judgment upon us, and upon his Hel¬pers as the Rod of God’s Wrath. And,zdly. To guefs at fome of the Caufes'whereforethe Lord feems to be thus fmiting us, and what Ufewe ought to make of this awful Difpenfation.That the Paid Attempt hath the Appearance of aterrible Judgment, and the Promoters thereof of aRod of Wrath, feems evident from the P erf on pre¬tending, the Principle whereupon he founds hisClaim, the Inftruments imployed in making it effe-(ftnal, their PraHices^ and the fatal Confequemy:thatthat the whole muft inevitably be produAive of toReligion, to the King, and to the Realm in general,, iwo, The Perfon pretending to be our King is ai frofejjed and bigotted Papijl, being one of the Pope’sWcarditskls, and the pretended lineal .(tho’ molt reckoni him but the fpurious) Succeffor of K. James VII.Jwho to the Treachery, Diffimulation, Cov.enant-ii breaking, Reformatiomburying, Rloodlhed and Ty-| ranny of his Grandfather, his Father and Brother (Sins| for which we have Reafon to expedt God will, ac-| cording to the fecond Command of the Moral Law,i reckon with that Race unto the third and fourth Ge-jneration) added his utmoll Endeavours, not only byintolerable Force and Cruelty upon the Lord’s Peo¬ple, but by Fraud and Deceit with the more, limple,j to bring back thefe Lands to Popery, and fubjedt them| to Slavery; for which be and his Pofierity were in3 the righteous Judgment of God excluded from fway-ing the Sceptre over us.I- ^do, The Principle whereupon this Pretender andU his Friends, in all their Manifejlo's and Declarations,| found his Title and Claim to thefe Kingdoms, beingi a hereditary indefeafible Right, is evidently produ-dtive of fundry Plagues and Inconveniencies. For,1 (i) The prefent Exercife {hereof were inconfiftentl with all Laws Divine andtHuman: For this Preten¬der being a Papift, anda^fuch an Idolater, the LawJ of God {Deut. xiii.) which makes no DiilindfionI betwixt King and Subjeft, commands that the Ido¬later (hall die the Death; confequently all fuch areincapable of, and unfit for, Dominion inaChriftian■Land. And by the Laws of the Land (viz.. Ad 8.Pari. i. K. JamesVI. and Parag. r. of the Claim ofRight, ratified by fundry Ads of Parliament) noPapift, or one of a different Religion frpm the Peo¬ple, can be our King: And fure the Pretender hasnot yetfignified the leaft Attachment toProteftantifm.(t.) 2 his hereditary Right robs the People of theirnatural Liberty of choofing their Kings, which alfothe Scripture in many Places, particularly in i Sum.r; ‘ x.it.Xlli. 38. & z Chr |nto them, tho’.( )•f. IJ. t Kings xiv. zr. 1 Chron. Xxii. •:acxiii. 11. exprefiy attributeth unto tlOrder’s fake, that Power is exercifed by their Repfentatives. And to imagine that fo many ThoufaPeople as Jv. Georgs s Dominions confid of, wtborn Slaves to him, and were his natural and heiditary Property, and that Kings are born fuft to riover others, and inaugurate to receive Honour a.Advantage to themfelves, were (as one wittily epreffes it) a making Men to be born with Saddles e♦heir Backs, and Bitts in their Mouths, that Kinmight have no more ado but leap oh, and ride the )at their Pleafure; and withal, it were an impcachii itef the Wifdom and Equity of the Great Rettor ■ tProvidence, who, as he hath given the Earth to ti H'Sons of Men in common, hath alfo given the.Dominion1 over the lower Parts of the Creation, arleft them at Freedom to ufe this their Liberty in fuc :a Way as, in their different Circumftances and Sip 'ations, fliould be molt for his Glory and their Gooi )-■Confequently Vox populi eft vox Dei, and the fuboi "■dinate chief End of his Conftitution Stilus cr bon*. \vtopuli. And, when this End is fruftrate either who :iy or in its chiefeft Conditions, the Aggreffors are jufi hly reckoned to forfeit the,RegalPdwer. Our famqiiHiftorian Buchanan, Rer. Scot, lib* 6. p. 195. invk rKennethi, fheweth, that^br about 1015 Years th IPeople of Scotland had in their Choice whom to ow kor admit to fucceed in the Government, even the :r♦he Kingdom was hereditary; and ufed toeletft, nc tfhch always who were nearcitin Blood-line, butfre 1quently fuch as were judged molt fit for Governmenl !>being of the Progeny of Fergus: And that tho’ Ken '■neth III. to cover the Murder of his elder brother tSon, and prevent his, and fecurehis own Son’s Su? b.cefiion, procured this Charter for Tyranny, theSel Stlement of the CroWn upon him and his Pofterit: :•by tire Parliament; yet it was under fuch Limitation?s precluded the Succeffion of Fools or Monftcr: uand preferved the People’s Liberty to ftiake off ^th( 7 )joke when Tyranny (hould be thereby iht¥<5cfuce<!.ilnd accordingly we find, that as they:formerly re-*feed feverals of rheir Kings, and executed fome of.jiem ; fo they afterwards difowned K. Baliol andhiswhole Race for his attempting to inflave the King-join’s Liberties to the King of England (which fur-[ifhed a notable Precedent for our Revolutioners then?ot only calling of the Authority of K. James VILwhen he abdicate the Throne, but alfo their exclu-jing his Pofierity from the SucCeffion.) Moreover,hat our Anceftors not only refnfed .Subjection tot. James I. while Prifoner with the Englijh; butwhen charged, upon their Allegiance, not to fightiijigainft the Party who had his Perfon Prifoner, theyjjnfwered, “ That they owned no Prifoner for their|j[‘ King, nor owed any Allegiance to a Prifoner.”Which reproves the Madnefs of our Scots EpifcopaltMnd Papifts their praying for a King in Exile. And,when Q. Mary would not refrain from Popifh Idola¬try and Tyranny, her Subjects withdrew rheir Alle-leiance to her, and depefed her from the Government:Which plainly (hews, that the Revolution was not thewrit Time our'Rulers have been call off ior Popery, asrt\\ns Tyranny. And as the Race of Stuarts broughtlot their Charter to our Grown immediately from•leaven, but mult betakeihefnielves in the long-run•b the Choice of the Ejlhis ,ti the Kingdom, andthat not abfolutely, but upgp Conditions; fo, uponamparingthefe Conditions to be found in the lland-ig-laws (too long to be here fo much as abridged)rith the Declaration of the Efiates oi Scotland andngland at the Revolution, there comes out the fulleftEvidence that K. James VII. had broken thefe con¬it ions in the molt material and important Article*thereof, and that therefore they were free from theSurrender of the Crown made to his Anceftors. But,appofing our Prognitors had actually transferred theCrown to the Family of the Stuarts abfolutely andiconditionally, it is yet queftionable Whether theymid do fo-j or, if they could diveft themfelves ofthe( 8 )the Dowry natural to them, whether could thealfo bind their Pofterity down thereto, without theia<Sual Confent? And if not, certainly it was noonly an irrational Surrender of all their own Rights*nd inflaving their Pofterity, but an irreligious Contempt of Providence, refufmg and anticipating it'Determination in fuch a Cafe, whereto their Pofterin ;could therefore pay no Regard, And admitting more (over, with the Author of a late Calm Addrefs, that thPretender hath really an indefeafible Right to thef 1Kingdoms; let us take a View of the Superftm&un :that by all Popijh Monarcbs hath been built upon thiFoundation: Have they not looked upon the Crownright as their Property fo abfolutely, as to be pofleft 1and enjoyed by them, not for the Peoples Good a:the chief End, but for their own; and upon Parlia¬ments and Laws, irf fo far as they refirained theiiPower* as fo many Incroachments upon their Proper¬ty* and confequently void and null ? And, if this !Hypothefis is granted, doth it not hence follow alfo,that the moft valuable Interefts of the Subjed depend ■on the Pleafure of the Prince; and that Subjects haveno Right to infill uponTerms with him, but mult yieldpaffive Obedience unto his Pleafure be what it will;and if he confers Honour, Profits and Advantages u-pon any, that they mint looJc upon them, not as what :they have any Right to, but merely as Adis of Graceand Favour, refumabk at Pjpafure ? Now, let the moltbigotted Jacobitesamongitusfuppofe themfelveSSub-jddts in fuch Circumftances, and tell honeftly whetherthey could then rationally reckon upon their Libertyand Property with the fame Freedom that they may -now do, and if they would not then merit rather theName of Slaves than Subjedts. If after all it {hallbe faid. That by our Conftitution the Law is abovethe King; Yet, by the Principles of our hereditary-right Men, the Law cannot be execute without theKing, and fo our Kings may tyrannize at Pleafure.And if they grant that the Law may be execute with¬out the King, yea againft him, which it both hatkbeen./been, may be, and ought to be when there is redi Gaufe for it; then this is in fo far a giving up withI hereditary indefeahble Right, and making the Willand Pleafure of the Efiates of Parliament 3. fine quanon Condition of the Exefcife of the Regal Power;which however our Pretenders to hefalitary indefea~fible Right have complied with for their own Eafeand Conveniency when they could not do better, theyhave yet paid no Regard to the Liberty and Property. of the Subjett, nor even to the Liberty of Parliament,when anywife compatible with the Prerogative; as inK. Charles I. and K( James VII. was exemplified.| Nor (confidering the Dependence that this Pretendermuft neceffarily have upon the Trench and otherforeign Powers,' which may afterwards be madeI fomewhat more plain) is it prefumable that hedurfti acft according to the Pleafure of his Parliament,I fuppofe he inclined it.!^tio. The inftruments imployed in this Attempt,viz. the French, Spaniards and Highlanders, feememinently the People of God’s Wrath. Are not theFrench and Spaniards, the conjunft Contriver^ andI Promoters of this Attempt, the two main Pillars ofAntichrift's Kingdom, ifath whom God will there¬fore have War till his Anger ceafe in their Defiruftion ?And are not the AdtorsPor themoft part Highlanders,I thePoilerity of thefe who, under the excommunica-| ted and forfeited Montrofe,. waged War againft thePresbyterians, and in four or five feveral Battles, orrather Maflacres, abouta hundred Years ago, cruellymurdered near Fifteen thoufand of our renowned; Anceftor?, and plundered the whole Country? thefame alfo who towards the End of the Reign ofK. Charles II. offered their Service for fuppreffing thePresbyterian Ajfemblies and Nonconformifts to Poperyand Epifcopacy, and whofe Service having been accep¬ted, were, to the Number of near Ten thoufand,quartered in the Weft and South of Scotland, whereunder the Condudt of that Monfter of Barbarity,gohn Graham of Claverhoufe, afterwards for hisB Cruelty( 10 )Cruelty created Vifcount of Dundee, they murderedmany in cold Blood, rnadePrifonersof a great manycithers, forced fome ThoufandsintoBanilhment, andwafted the Country in a Manner almoft incredibleto be believed; as thejA&s of the Revolution-par¬liament, and Htftories of thefe Times, do proport;the fame alfo who vigoroufly oppofed our Delive¬rance from Po^ry and Tyranny at the Revolution, andWho jis they maintain an irreconcileableEnmity againftithe Reformation-intereft, have fithdry. Times lince,and particularly in the 17rj, renewed their War torAntichrift and his Members. And are not the pre-fent Gangfor the m'oft part Roman Catholicks ? as bycomparing their own Accounts of the Places whence1•they are faid to have come, with the Account ofPapifii g\v<tn by the Society in Scotland fox propaga¬ting Chriftian Knowledge, is apparent to the WorldiAnd arc nqtthe moft part of them fuch Wretches as by<their Pra&ice evidence they have no other Regard forHonour, Obedience or Government, than as by fRevolution and Alteration of Affairs-, and floppingthe Courfe of Jufticefor a Time, they may improveti> themlelves an Opportunity of robbing and plun¬dering their Neighbours re. \4t0, That the Pretender arid his Abettors are theRod of Cod's Indignation uporaus, feems further evi¬dent from their irreligious and immoral Prattices inthe Courfe of the pre&nt Wfr. We incline not torake into Dunghils, nor to expofe our BrethrensShame; but, if they themfelves have declared theirSin astffrrfwwjWho can be angry'at our mentioningthefame, as Matter of Humiliation both before God andthe VVorld ? Now, if,inftead of worfhipping the onlytrue God,'hey be found either chargeable wixhfdlsiattyas all Papifts are,or glorying in thc\x Atbcifm and Infi¬delity, as ;in their Confutation of the Story about Fa¬ther they have avow’d; if, inftead of receivingand obferving all God's Ordinances, there be amongftthem Worftrippers of Images, and Inch as have madethe Houfes for God's IVorfisip and the Seats of tbe fupremeCivil.and Eccltfiaftiek Courts df the Nation, eilherHoufes of Office, or Xhe Rcpoftcries for their Armouryand flolen Baggage; if nlneid of reverencing the'Names, Titles and Attributes of God, they (hail befound dreadful C«r/#rr andSit-r^rerj; and if, infleadof fanttifying the Lord’s Day, they flia’l be found tohave been the Mean ot flopping the outward SSanc&i-fication thereof in the Place, and open Profancrtthereof,by Marching,'Shooting, Playing on Bag-pipes;eye. Shall not God he avenged on them for thefe Things *And for thefecond Table of God's Law, unlds Re¬bellion againft and fpeaking Evil of Dignities, Mur¬der, Whoredom, Stealing, Lying, and-Cpvetoui-nefs, in the literal Meaning of the Law, be a payingRegard thereto, this Hoft ha"ve drown liule or noneof it. Can- it then be reafonably expected that anyGood will come to us by fuch Inftruments ? And,, gte. That the prefent Attempr-forfetting the Pre¬tender upon our Throne, is a clear Proof of ’.he Lord’sDifpledfure with us, is further evident from the na¬tive Fruits and Effects which it would inevitably pro¬duce to Religion, to the King, and to the Country ingeneral.imo. That the true B*higion were thereby,greatlyendangered, we need only advert to thefe Things:(l.) That this Pretendersis aprojcjftd Papift, and ^U hisFamily brought up irj the iapie Faith, from whichnever one of them hlvefwewec}, fo far 3s to pre¬tend the kail Affctfrian to Bfoteftantifm, anti who^uft therefore (in a Colfifletrcy therewith) '!^ uponall Proteftants as vile Hercticks; this having beenmade a fundamental Article of the Dodtrine of theMother of Harlots by the Council of Cortftance, andwhich was p radii fed upon John LJufs and Jerome ofPrague, in bloody Characters, even after the Councilhad pledged their Faith fpr their Safety. Moreover,they mujt keep no Faith .with fuch Heraieks furtherthan to lerve their own and rhe Interefls of HolyMother; |as witnefs theCondudtofQueen Mary ofScotland to her Subjedls, Queen Mary ot F.ng-B j landUni to the Men of Suffolk, and the Promifes ofthe Trench King to the Prcteftants in his Dominions,which pnded in the infamous Maffacre at Paris.Furthermore, they mufi extirpate Protejlants with Fireind Sword, fo foon as they are in a Capacity of do¬ing it; as obtained in moft of the Popith Dominionswhere Protefiantifm had once a Footing, particular¬ly 'in Italy, Aufiria, Tufcany, Savoy, Piedmont andfranco. This was the profefs'd Defign of the Spa-’nijh Armado, and the very Motive of the memo-table Irijh Maffacre. And licklike, they mufi propa¬gate and eftahlifli the Romi(h Religion to the utmoftof their Power: This was eminently the Cafe underthat tyrannical Ufurper, K. James VII. And wher¬ever Popilh Princes have had Power on their Side,they needed no Spurring from the ghoftly lathers tQexert themfelves this way. Popery and Cruelty beingas infeparable as Sin and Satan, (i.) The boundleftToleration that this Pretender and his Son promife intheir fevcral Manifefto's and Declarations to give toall Setts, to profefs what Religion they pleafe, givestheftrongeft Reafon tofufpedt, that, if they fucceed,.thefe Bealls of Prey, the*Romifh Priefts, will be ac¬counted the very Salt of tils Place of the Earth, andfwarm amongft us like Locufis. This was the obvi¬ous Defign of K. James thd Seventh’s Toleration}and how effecSually it anfwqred the End propofedby it, is no Secret.' (3.) Sippofing this Pretendernot to be of a fanguiht: Pjfpolition (which yet wereas great a Miracle in a Papft, as the Wonder of aWoman clothed with the Sun was to John the Di¬vine) yet, would not his and his Family’s Example,and the Dependence which many behoved to have•upon him for Preferment, Polls, Honours and Pen-fions, gradually lead them in to a Liking to Popery,and Compliance therewith ? And, (4.) It feems allbrational to prefume, that his Abettors the Trench andSpaniards being of this infernal Faith, and the High¬landers and others his Helpers in Scotland moftly at¬tached thereto, thefe would have no fmali Influenceupon( 13 )upon him towards the Re-introdu&ion and Eftablifh-mcnt of Popery, or atleaft of Epifcopacy the Daugh¬ter of Popery.zdo, That our Sovereign K. George's Perfon and; Government are thereby expofed to the utmoft Jeo¬pardy, is the profeffedly chief Defign of the prefentWar. It remains only to be noticed, that if the Li¬berty of Election be originally in the People, andthat their Confent either by themfelves or their Re-prefentatives is what cdnftitutes a Perfon’s Title tobe their King; if K. George had the free, voluntary,unconftrained Choice and Confent of thcfe Nationsto be their King; and if an explicite formal owningthereof, by folemn Oaths, Addreffes and otherwife,were lawful; Then furely he is our only rightful andlawful Sovereign; and they mull be wicked Sons ofBelial, that dare, by taking Part with the Pretenderagainil him, involve themfelves in Treachery, Per¬fidy and Villainy. And,pio, That our Country in general is hereby indanger of Suffering in their worldly Jnterefts, confi-der thefe Things; (i.) That the War hath beenhitherto carried on folelvupon the Charges and Ex-pences of the Country,- ami that levied in the moftarbitrary and unequal Manner, to the almoft utterRuin of many true and loyal Proteftants, while thefethat ftand well affefttd to the pretender’s Interefthave been paft by; witch firft-rijpe Fruits of his Go¬vernment give us a genuine Swatch of what we may(in cafe of his Succefs) day tur Account with here¬after. (i.) Suppofing this Pretender to fucceed inhis Enterprife, then, befides the Reftoration of theEftate of Biihops among ourfelves, and conferringat the leaft all their antient Rents upon them, to thediminifliing of moft of the Eftates in the Nation; theCreditors and Benefactors of his-Family fall next tobefatisfied: The Debts contracted by them for Fiftyfeven Years Time, and in their feveral Expeditionsand Invafions at and fince the Revolution, have beencomputed to Fifty Millions Sterling; and where thism( 14 )is to come from, fure no-body .knows. And whatwould fatisfy the infatiable Avarire of the Frenchand Spaniards is ftill as inconceivable. But furely,as the Author of the forefaid Addrefs fays, it wouldbe no hnreafonable Demand in the King of Spain tofeek back the important Fortreffes of Gibraltar andMahon, feeing they were botlr taken from thofewhohave allalongft been affifting the Pretender, and areJnefently aiding him in the Recovery of his fuppo-ed juft Right: It were therefore very ungrateful, ifwhen he comes to the Throne he (hall detain thefe,feeing he can pretend no Right to them, either byGift, Treaty or Conqueft. And if he (hould givethem up, which he can fcarce refufein a Conliftcncywith his reckoning the Government who took them■Ufurpers, then our Trade to the Mediterranean wereeither at a Period, or dependent upon the Pleafureof Spain. The fame Reafon holds with refpe<ft tothe delivering up of Cape Briton to the French, tho*the taking thereof alfo.promifes great Advantages tous. Nor is it to be expeded that France, upon whomcfpecially the Pretender has all alongft depended, aqdupon whom he muft (till have'a Dependence, wouldbe content with our givjnmup of Cape Briton: Butconfidering that the Duties cm French .Wines, Brandy,Cambrick and other Comma,dities, are (on accountof the French being moltly flirnifhed with them bytheir own ColoniS-, capable bf underfelling us, andthat they take littfe die buf Cafh in lieu thereof)much higher than the ^utiealbn the like Commoditiesof other Nations, as Pom^al, See. with whom weare in ufe to trade by excambing of Goods for Goods.;therefore the Pretender behoved to make" the FrenchCommodities broughtin to his Dominions liable onlyto the like Duties as the fame Commodities fromother Nations are liable to; wherethro’ odr Tradewith Portugal and our own Manufadures were al-moft ruined, our' Species carried to France, and theConfum.pt of our home-brewed Spirits as good asgiven up, which were an immenfe Lofs to us. And( 15 )itho’ it were to be expefted a wife King would not*thus prqudge his Subjefts for the fake of others,yet confidering the prior Obligation that the Preten-\i-er lies under to the Trench both in point of Debta md Gratitude, and the folemn'Aifurances he hathdoubtlefs many Times given unto them, and moreSpecially the Dependence that he behoved necef-farily to have upon them for guarrantying him here-' after, the Prefumption of Favour feems to ly on theiSide of the French. (3.) The- Debts prefently affe-Ifting the Crown behoved either to be paid, or theid Faith of the prefent Government pledged for themfaroke, and fome Thoufands thereby reduced to Mi-| Tery; which were an effectual Way of expofing the■jjNation to the Imputation'of Bankruptcy through theWhole World. (4.) Our trufty Friends the Dutch,whofe Fleets are equal to ours, and conjoined withus in point of Intereft, whofe Liberality has main-< rained many of our zealous Anceftors when they■ Could not for the Cruelty of the Stuarts get leave to; draw their Breath in their own native Land, whofe■ Navy and Army were under God the principal Meansof our Deliverance at the^ayolution, and whofe) Treafuries have been our Bfefort on fundry Occafions,1 would then be expofed toAwoFires^nd have a plau-.( lible Pretext for turningltheir Arms ngainft us, and■ operating their Paymentpy the Swoyd. (5.) Befides• the Difaffeded among owfelves, vimo would for theforefaid Reafons be in all wobabilify very numerous,K. George’s Family would V^ptnuppofed Event bej the Pretenders to our Crown, and have as good a[Right to invade us as the other, feeing he hath a!fo. obtained- the Confent of the whole Nation, and theConftitution of Parliament, which is as much as theIpretender’s Anceftors had: And withal, his Strength'I -oftipporthisPre.enfions would be much greater thant hat of the prefent Pretender, he having not only he-t-editary Dominions of his own, and tire Kings offrujjia, Denmark, and the Princes of Orange-, Heffe-'Cffiel, 2<c. for his Friends, and tjie Emperor andmoft,(><?)•soft of the Princes of Germany, Auftrians and “Jbutch for his Allies abroad, but alio the numerous 'difaffedted Protefiants galled wich the Yoke of Po- ■ptry and Tyranny at home: Therefore there behoved fato be kept tip, upon the Nation’s Expence, a nume- >rous ftanding Army, to overawe the Difaffedted at thome and abroad, and oppofe the Pretenfions of his 1Rival of Hanover. And how all this is to be iup- >ported by a People funk in Trade aniCredit, wafted iand brought low by Invaftons and inteftine Com mo- litions, and who muft be continually at the Beck of 1the trench and Spaniards to fupport their tottering c:Throne, is beyond all human Conception.Nor do we know of any Advantage that can be tfuppofed to accrue to us from the Government of thePretender which we enjoy not at prefent, if it be not,(i.) That it would be the Mean of freeing us fromithe Burden of maintaining foreign Interefts and ex-penfive Wars, wherein we feem to have no immediateConcern. And, (z.) That it would put a Period to-the incorporating Union with England; and confequent-ly that Edinburgh, which hath fuffered moft there¬by, would be reftcredJi^its former/aariyfc/Hg Con¬dition. But as two Bjacks wpuld not make one White,and that thefe Suppofitionsk when taken in their ut-moft Latitude, fare nowife woportionable to the fatalConfequences tljat muft ineBtably accrue to Religionand the Country fq general m i eftoring the Pretender;So, however greaWa Grievf.nee the former may be,yet not the King aWWe, bpt the Parliament alfo, areto blame for it: And, Trthis be a good Reafon forfetting him afide, it muft ftrike equally againft the:Parliament, and then we lhallhave atoom Houfe.But, feparatim. Have our Jacobites firft taken ami¬cable Meafures for obtaining Redrefs of thefe Grie¬vances with the King and Parliament, who only haveit in their Power to fatisfy them, before they madethe prefent Infurredion? and have fuch Means been,abortive? If they have not, then furely it muft beac-1j igcounted the greateft Madnefs and Treachery in themto have all of a fudden turned from feemingly con¬tented Subjedtion to open Rebellion, and from pro-feffed Friendlhip to a drawing the devouring Swordagainft their Brethren, to effe&uate what they knewnot but calm Meafures might have done ; whereby,befides all that is to be feared, what of this Cure isalready felt is more grievous than the Difeafe. Andfor the latter, albeit the Vrtttndtr hath fhown his. Inclination to diffolve the Union, yet what Affurancehave we that the Englifh, or even the Scots, willi confent thereto ? Or, tho’ they (hould, whether,1 confidering the real Advantages that other Parts ofthe Nation reap thereby, the Diffolution thereof wereI not in our prefent Circumftances a real Injury evento Scotland? And, if fo, are they worthy beingMembers of any Society, who would, for their own; particular Intereft, facrifice the general Good of the■: Nation? OrdofuchMen imagine, that, when othersI about them are in a finking Condition, they will1 flourifh long ?Thefe are the Motives which convince.us, and will;iwe doubt not alfo inducgMfpu^to look upon the■j faid Attempt as-the Lord’s terrible Juc^ment, and•. upon the Executers thereof as the Jlodin his Hand,j which hath fmitten us in his Indignation. Let usfherefore comply withjthe Exhortation of our Seersof old *, in taking notice of the Wand that fmitethI us: VoxAfflittioncomet\notforth of theDuft, neitherdoth Trouble fpring out of thv'Ground •, there is noEvil in-the City, nor Country, which the Lord hathnot done. Heixisxhatformeth the Light, and crea-tethDarknefs; who maketh Peace, and crfatcth Evil. HeI it is that hath given a Charge to the Sword that itcannot be ftill, and who hath his other jArrows, the■: Peililence and Famine, ready upon the String to. Ihoot at us.And as we conceive it incumbent upon us to lookupon this Difpenfation as our Puniflunent, fo alfo toC apply* Warning from tbc General Affcmbly in the nftj.,< IS )apply onr Hearts.to Fcarch 6u^ th‘e Reafont otf Things^{b as to tthderftand tbi.Language of the'pr?feif Judg¬ment : For tho’ the Alrnighty giveth not an Accourtt6T any of his'MatterK yet' he‘ hath proibifed, that,_yv’heijhrs'Judgments are in the Earth, the Inhabitants'thereof yfcdH learn Rightedufhefi; and that, when hisVoice crie.th.untb the City, the Man of WifdbmJM/fee his Natn.e, and hear the Rod and'him that hathdppointe^ it. And by the Light ofhis Word, bythe Voice of ourbwn Confciences, and by 'the Lan-• Tranfgreflion,thatrtins may read them upon our Punifhmeht,It is hot bur Province to be piiblick Remembran*cers unto others,n.or afeeven otir Seers fufficient formaking a fuj! Difcovery of-the Gaufes of the Lord’sConfrdyerfy with us; wc pray the Holy Spirit maybe at Work with us this way. Yet we dare notconceal; that we conceive the Rod doth in a fpeciatmanner point at our Difobedience to and Rebellionagaiuft the Son of God, by the Cpptempt andMif-improvemebtof th^glorious Gofpel, our not believ¬ing in Gocf, nor'mSting'ifc his Salvation; the Apo-ftafy of moft eveh from the Profeffion of feriousReligion, and the Eftrangcdhefs of moft ProfelTorsfrom the Life and Power of tn$e Godlinefs; at our notbeing duly Yeqfible of, nor evangelically humbled for,the Heaven-daring Abominations of the Race bywhofe Pbfteiity God is now fmiting us, and puttingbs iq Remembrance: raftidilarly for K. Charles the ,Second,'s overturning of, and burying, bythemfam- jbus Aft Refciffbry and other Afts made in his Reign, ~the glorjouY Reformation in Church and State, at¬tained to betwixt the 1/538 and 1650; the Non-'fuchApoftafy and Perjury of him, his Parliament andPrivy;Council, and of the Magiftrates of F.d'tnburgbmA Lin-lithgavj, in not only.breaking their folemn Covenantsmade , with God smd hjs People,hth: alio abjuring andburning the fkine in the Face of th« Sun, to the openEffron-'< ip )’Effiontry of the Great G6d, and in Defiar.ee of hisAuthority; thehorrld, impiousv. ot the mrom ivi unit able Prangativcs of theLord Jej'us ChriiL as fcnjgand'Elcad of,his'Church,"by both the Royal Brothers i their Confefeace-'infnaringand Soul-iuihing 'tiaih's^ Ronds, Indulgences, Teft andToteraUoh;, their ftrong Attempts to kad back thefeLands to Idolatry and Supeiflition; thei'r cunningand duel.'Endeavoufs Vo bamfluhetrue'Rdi^on out'Of their Dominions; and tjieir (heddingthe Blood Of'many of God's dear Sain’ts in this and the other Citiesof Scotldjid,'.'cuttingthem off,in Battle, whereto theywere funijry times compelled lor their own Defence?and imprilb'ning, tortuimgj, fcourging and banilhinginahy^others. As alio, at our Ungratitude for, andMifimproyement.of, our glorious Deliverance at theRevolutionjfroift that cu'rfed Race and the Mileries theyDrought upon us, and from the Attempts lince madeoylthem, particularly in the iyo8, rp 5 and 1-744, forbringing us again under the D.ominidn of Popery andTyranny: And at the littl$ Zeal either of Church ofState for advancing ancLfi^rthMfcg the Welfare ofthe Hqide.and Hefitageof God | but, on the con¬trary, tlk Church hat4 winked at-and tolerated He-feticks and their Errora whiieft Endeavours to makeus feniible. of our Abominations have been (as far asthey could) fafiprefedl and the At tempters thereofbehaved towards as Trhiblirs of /Vlankiod; the Statehath given a Tolerauckunio -Epifcppals and all Ser^sof Hereticks amongft it and the Church hath con¬nived thereat, not warWngTeople of the Sin andDanger thereof ; and this feems in an eminent Man¬ner the Source and Spring of the prefent Rebellion':The Lord’s People have begn deprive avf the Privilegeof 'electing their ipiritual ^uitka ^ad Overfeers b|rthe Pairohaje-att, and arhitrary Churdi-mofttrestaken in confequence theiieoti wherethfo’ a Set of'dead, lazy, time-ferviagMtnilkrs are intruded upontlzem : An lAbjitration-oath hath been impofed, andaim oft univerfally fubmitted to, which, however juit, C i as( 20 )as it refpefts the Pretender, is yet reckoned am- jbiguous in other Points, and inconfiftent with our tfor-mer folemn Engagements: And the Sabbath has 'been profaned, and the Minifterial Office and Power ;invaded and incroachtd upon, in the Matter of Por- tttous. All which, together with the abounding Ido- !:latry, Blafphemy, Infidelity Superftition, profane j tSwearing, Idlenefs, Luxury and Extravagance of :many kinds, Dilhonefty, Fraud and Oppreffion, opeft :Dilregard of the Lord’s Day and Worlhip, Treachery, tMurder, Adultery and Fornication, with many other tAbominations that might be named, rampant amongft tus, better known to many of you than to us, and 1which tve leave to every one’s own Heart to examine, ;are, we doubt not, fpecial Caufes of the Lord’s thus*contending with us,Andtho’we neither incline, nor is it our Sphere,to be Exhorters of others, knowing of none thatftand in more need of it than we; yet we cannotrefrain expreffing our Hopes, that many of you are ijudging it full Time, under the Feeling of fo great aBurden both of S^und Wrath, to humble ourfelvesunder the mighty Hand o^God, to juftify his righ- 1teous Judgments? to acknowledge our Iniquities, to imake pur Supplication to ouj Judge,, and to feekhisFace and Favour, that he may pardon our Sin, andheal our Land. The Lord roarcth, and Ihall nothis Children tremble ? The Gird of Glory thundreth,and the Higheft ittereth his Voice; who will not jfall down and fear^before fim i The Fire waxeth <hot, and burneth round ab»ut us; and fhall any fitHill and be fecure ? Tne^torm bloweth hard, ajid{hall any Sluggard be ftill afleep ? This is a Day of |Trouble, and of Rebuke, and of Blafphemy; who iWill not take up a Lamentation, lift up a Cry for the |Remnant that are left, and fay. Spare thy People, OLord, and give not thine Heritage to Reproachwhere¬fore Ihould Papifts, Atheifts, Deifts and Malignants Ifay among themfelves, Where is oar God tBut( 21 • )But tho’ this be the principal, yet not the onlyI Duty of the Day: If Opportunity is afforded us,ij we declare our Willingnefs to apply ourfelves toI fuch other Refolutions and Adions as feem moftfui-I table and neceflary at this Time, for the Defence ofi Religion, King and Country'. And whereas fome ofthe Presbyterian Denomination have aflifted in thej making of Targets, Scull-caps, Tents, Shoes, Pans,a and other Pieces of Armoury to the Enemy; othersof them have paid their Proportion of the Subfidyd exprejly impofed for defraying the Expence thereof;»> others have, without Conftraint, paid in to them theirU Proportion of Cefs and Excifc, whileit others have;| fworn Oaths to them touching the having or know-ii ing of Arms, ' accepted of Protections from them,J and the moft have been fome how acceffory in aid-|| ing them, or owning of their Authority: We de-ill clare, that albeit we be ourfelves as liable to yield toj’l Temptations as others, and defire to exerciie Cha-II rity towards our Brethren who have thus complied ;ji yet we are not at Freedom ourfelves to do fo, forM the following among other Re^fc.! i. Becaufe this PretemUr c]aims\hereditary Right:! to thefe as his Due; b\k, this beinj: what the Nati-ji on’s Reprefentatives have refufed, ^e muff not dolt| any Tiring that may be/interpreted ajrowning of hisi'i Title: For as the Effad can never/be more nobleHf than the Caufe, fo no ’more can our Obedience than|i his Command; and if it be his Sin to require, foiij does it feem our Sin a^d ShasiPto give.12. Becaufe the EndVtheJDemand is wicked:For tho’ it js not expref^HJeclared to be fo, yet isit declared virtually and indifputably, and is univer-fally known, that thefe Payments and Services arefor affifting the Pretender in the Recovery of hisfuppofed juft Rights,n 3. Becaufe we are commanded (Jer. xxiii. 14.)j not toftrengthen the Hands of Evil-doers; and we(i find JcboJhaphat reproved for helping the Ungodly,2 Chron.Jv )VCbron. ih. iha that it vras Ahats Sih fn giving ,Money to the King of Atfyria, i Kings xVi. And iwe find the 'Gerrerhl Affembly i64i8 in like man- itier dehorting all the Members of the Church fromcontributing any Affiftance to Duke Hamilton s Eii- jjgagement ( ho’ not more kicked than this) but thit i;they fhould rather luffcrtheutmoft that wicked Mens tiMalice could them with. And, in the 1645, offind they paft an Aft for cenfurfng even fuch as ;;had taken Protefh'ons from thofe that were engaged in [jMontrofes Rebellion, or executing their Orders.But becaufe thf Evil of the Atfton is faid to lyWholly in the Ad of the Will, and that it isafferted iThe forefaid Ads were compelled vi vr metu; Wefhall, for cafting Light on what may be called an in- 1Voluntary Adion, tranfcribe Part of a Paragraph of Ithe zealous and learned Mr. Shields, ‘from whole :Reafonmgs on this Head we have gleaned. “ Thistl will be cleared, if we confider the Law of God I(Dettt. xxii. 15.) concerning Rapes, where, to 1makeooit the Inyoluntarinefs of the betrothed Vir- ■“ gin, ftm muit ■bbnly be fuppofedto flruggle and i" rehfl the Attempt nfae^on her Chaility and Ho-“ nefty by theipiilain, but fflt rauft cry for Affiftance ;witliout wmdi the is had in Law willingly to“ confent to tfe coinminiM of that Wickednefs.”Other Arguments inightw adduced on this Point;hut it being morfe- our Defigi to apologize for our-fclves (for Which Mrpofe Wf conceive what isifaidis fufficient) than tOTonviJIe others, we forbear.Upon the Whole, Tho/our Difficulties be,many.Vet our Cafe is not altogether defperate, andtho’it bedeplorable, yet when we tefted that God has yet left jOs a Nail in his holy Place, and what great Delive- Iiranees he hath wrought to us even from the famteParty, Experience begetteth Hope. Our Fathers tru-fted in God, they trufted in him, and he did deliverthem; they cried unto him, and were delivered. Whoknoweth but he hath lifted up our Etfemes, that theft ;Fall I( s3 )'all may be the greater, and that he may cafi themlown into Deflation for ever ? Arife and let us he do¬ing ; the Lord of Hofls is with us, the God of Jacobi our Refuge.Thus far we have prefumed (as no Attempt of:hls kind hath at this Time been publiflied unto you)to give you a fmall Token of our Love, partly iothe Words of the Holy Ghoft, partly in the Stileof our zealous Reformers on fomewhat parallel Oc-icafions, and partly in our own flat (tho’ we hopeplain) Dialed. We are.Gentlemen,Edinh. i%thOffober1745- Your Brethren in Tribulationand Hope,