THOMAS RAEBURN.AYRSHIREOf SCOTLAND ^KIRKINTILLOCH; WILLf£&THOMAS RAEBURN,THE(i('iitie reader, did you ever see a liermit ? If not,mayhap you liave licard that such things are. I shallintroduce you to one : but first let me relate a small anec¬dote :—Some years ago I dined in a small tavern inGreenock, with about a dozen other wayfarers. A jollySkijipcr was present, who amused the company consi¬derably with his yarns. Said he “ some four years ago,we were wrecked upon a small uninhabited island nearNewfoundland ; we all got safe ashore, and a miserablelooking place it was ; but after climbing over a hill, wewere all quite delighted to meet with 15 hermits andtheir dogs at this, ourselves and some others burstout in a horse laugh : “ wdiat the devil are you laugh¬ing at ?”,said Jack, somewhat nettled. “ Oh, nothingat all; begging your pardon ; I was only wonderingwhere the 1.5 hermitesses would be all the while,'*Well, you may laugh as you please, young man, but4’I tell you its a regular fact, and no mistake.' Jack:turned out a very amusing and intelligent fellow; al¬though not particularly versed in the niceties of Syntaxand prosody.To go on, however—About mid-way between Kil¬marnock and Loudon Kirk, and half a mile off thepublic road, a small farm-house, or cottage, of the, oldSchool,1 that is to say, built of rough unhewn stone andcovered with thatch; it is somewhat romanticallysituated, as it is nearly concealed by woods and risinggrounds until you are within a few yards of it As you«nter the front door yon may as well look to your feeta? indications are visible that cattle and i-heep resideunder the roof. ; their locality is in the byre, upon theleft hand. Turn to the right and you enter an apart¬ment whi<h served for ‘parlour, kitchen, and all,* tothe late proprietor, who was born in the cottage and^ied in it very lately, old and ‘ full of years.* It wasleft to him about fifty years ago, along with a few acres•f land, by his late father, and was denominatedHohnhead, properly, but the ‘ Ark,* by use and wont.The walls of this apartment exhibited no tokens ofthe genuis of a Rembrandt or a Raphael, or even of hisillustrious namesake, but they were adorned with labelsindicating that ginger beer was sold here, and lemonadealso, and a few other items for the benefit and accom¬modation of tee-totallers. The furniture was such asmay be seen at any time in some remote log-house inthe * far west’ of the giant Republic: a good clock,however, told that time was not forgotten here.Thomas Raeburn was born here, in 1769. He usedto remark to his customers and visitors, that three verywreat men were born in that year,—* ane o’ them wasBonaparte, an’ anither, Wellington, an, the third ane isjtmang us here, ye may guess wha.’ His father, althoughhe could have well afforded to give his son a liberaleducation, was content that he should receive instruc¬tions in simple reading and writing. The old man usedto say, * what’s the use of giein* Tam Latin or Greek,J5»*ay be lie wad turn a Roman or a Papist a’thegither.’Tam throughout a long life, although fond of news andinformation on all subjects, never evinced any peculiarliking to dip deep at Learning’s fount. It is said thathe never iu his life purchased a new book or a news¬paper ; he possessed a Bible however, and a few books,in a huge chest that he opened only on ‘ occasions.’After his father,s death Thomas, although he mighthave cultivated his farm to advantage, chose rather towork as a farm labourer, or a gardener to a gentlemanin the neighbourhood. At this period of his life therewas nothing peculiar or eccentric in his dress or his be¬haviour, till about 35 years before his death he becameinvolved in a law-suit with a neighbouring proprietor,and was cast in heavy damages. Poor Raeburn tookthis sadly to heart; he considered himself (as mostpeople do who come off second best at the law) marvel¬lously ill-used—he was trampled upon and cheated ofhis lawful money, and vowed that he would go to warwith the world, for it was a bad world, else he wouldhave received justice, and not injury. HereuponThomas, the hermit, although in our opinion, he was nota regular hermit, for he maintained an old hand-maidenin his cottage, and did not live altogether upon rawturnips and cold water, and wear away the skin from hisbones in prayer, but the world entitled him so, andwhat ‘ a’ body says maun be true,’ according to the oldproverb. Thomas, the hermit, we say, declared warwith the world, its fashions and customs, and exceptupon one occasion, until the day of his death, wore hishair and his beard, and the same dress, if a dress couldbe called the same which was a complete mass of patchover patch, while the original garments were altogetherobliterated in dire confusion. When Thomas was re¬monstrated with on the subject, and advised to trim hisheard in a Christian-like manner, and wear becomingraiment, he would say, ‘ I think I am much more Chris¬tian-.ike than yourselves. I am so far keeping byScripture that I shall not mar the corners of my beard,6neither shall I take thought of wherewithal! I shall beclothed ; and as for shaving I pay plenty of taxes with-out wasting soap in such a way as that.’ There wasone occasion, however, in which the hermit was per¬suaded to put on a decent suit of apparel, and it arosefrom this ;—The person with whom he had the law¬suit happened to come home one night from a fairin Kilmarnock somewhat under the influence of strongwaters, and bethought himself of taking a near cutthrough Thomas's domain. As accident would have it,he encountered the hermit, who endeavoured to makehim retrace his steps. Both were powerful men, and‘ when Greek meets Greek then comes the tug of war,the poor hermit was worsted, for his opponent in a mostunfair and unmanly manner seized Thomas by the beard,and actually tore away part of it. An action of assaultand tresspass follow'ed, and Thomas for once found thelaw on his side, and obtained damages. It was uponthis occasion that the Sheriff induced Thomas to appearin court in suitable clothing, but bis Lair and beardmaintained their station in spite of every remonstrance,The hermit hq,d no great liking for lawyers, tax-gather¬ers, and excisemen—or gaugers, as he called them.“ They are just a’ the Deevil’s ain pack,’* said he,“ created just to skin and torment puir sinners in thisweary warl” and their maister will g«t them a’ at thelang run, that s ae comfort,* would he repeat as hechuckled to himself. The hermit in these cases, to givehim his due, spoke from feeling, for upon one occasionhe was fined in no less than 25 pounds for selling spiritswithout a license; he considered himself altogetherwronged in this case—‘ vile, greedy villains,- said he,• to meddle wi* a puir body for selling a wee drap o‘guid liquor when the folk were really needing it, an* metrying to earn an honest penny.*He was also incarcerated several times—once for re¬fusing to pay poor rates, and another time for violatingan interdict against him. Upon all these occasions,when other men would probably have received a littlesympathy, poor Raeburn was only laughed at, for it waiwell known that he was worth thousands.Not tnany years before his death the Hermit wasarrested for threatening to shoot a workman who wastrimming a hedge which Raeburn asserted was alto¬gether on his property, hut which the other party7 as¬serted was on the boundary line, and therefore he hada right to trim one side of it. The matter came tocourt, and after much litigation, during which the her¬mit expected to be successful, the case was at last de¬cided against him. He actually fainted in court, or atany rate ‘ shammed Abraham,‘ but it was 4 no go noone sympathised with him, and he was 1eft to broodmore and more on his misfortunes, and these came notsingly upon the poor fellow. In 1842 a gang of robbersbroke into his house by7 the window7, and holding loadedpistols to his breast, threatened to murder him if he didnot surrender up all his money; after searching everycorner, ‘the villains went off with about £. () in gold,silver, and copper, and had the audacity as they wentaway to fire their pistols in the air by way of defiance.One scoundrel, Duffy, was transported 10 \7ears for this,and his wife imprisoned for 0 months. The law wassurely very remiss here ; we have seen men again andagain hanged in Glasgow for crimes not one-tenth so badas Raeburn’s case ; and yet for all this some of his bio¬graphers seem to chuckle over the unfortunate man’smisfortunes as a piece of merriment. The poor fellowseemed to feel gratefully when any of his visitors sym¬pathised with him in his mishaps ; and is ihere anything to be amazed at in this ? Human nature, to a ce\'-tain degree, operates in like manner in every breast, andhe who lias no sympathy for misfortune unmerited, isunworthy the name of man.The hermit several times entertained the notion of'paying her Majesty. Queen Victoria, a visit, and layinghis complaints before her when he had no doubt theywould be redressed. “ She was a good little woman,14he said, “ a very good woman, and would get hack hi$with interest, and punish the vile gaugers.’’ fUactually went as far as Edinburgh at one time to waiton the Queen, but was persuaded to go no further. Ae.vv’«t<'lrs ag°. J,e sent the Queen a rare silver coin, forw ich he received an official letter acknowledging re¬ceipt, but there was no contents for the hermit, as h*sanguinary expected—disappointment again for poor^’e hermit, although very fond of money, was nota ogether uncharitable j he sometimes gave the way-anng beggar a handful of meal, but money be would notpart with. One day on the public road he came upwit a poor woman who knew him, and just as he camee ose^to her, he saw a bawbee on the ground and liftedt ‘ Hech, Tammas,“ said the poor wife, “ye ken yetave thousands : its no worth your while to keep that•awbee, yedl better gie it to me.“ “ Gie it to you;ursty, aye, ye‘re a queer ane, fin, bawbees for yoursel‘,my Iass,“ and so saying, Thomas slipped the coinageinto his pocket.In his youth the hermit was a handsome and a verypowerful man, measuring 6 feet 2 inches in height, witha n0 ^roa^ ch|est and proportionate limbs; in hiso d age he ^ became bent, as most men do ; yetnotwithstanding, the ravages of time, his outlandish-eard, and his uncouth raiment, he still manifested th*t le ruins of a noble frame and visage The love ofmoney was his great besetting sin ; it contributed how-evei, to render him abstemious both in regard to meatan diink, although in regard to his food it was carriedto such a height as to injure his health occasionally.t was seldom indeed, he tasted anything stronger thanwater, although report gave him the credit of having•econie intoxicated one night in returning from Ayrraces. A party of pretended friends inveigled him intoa load side tavern, and in all probability^ they hadlocussed his drink, as he fell into a deep sleep, and uponawakening found that, like mighty Samson of old, howas ‘ shorn of his locks.“ This was cruel and mean in9the extreme ; but how often are such tricks done ?The perpetrators thereof ought in all cases to be wellpumped with cold water, and then tarred and feathered.Poor Raeburn, would to Heaven that many of thyspecies (except gentlemen with smooth chins and fash¬ionable garments) could lay their hands upon theirhearts and honestly declare that they had been drunkonly once in their course through life,Among the accomplishments'which the hermit couldboast of, we must mention his proficiency in the use ofthe rifle. In a trial with a celebrated rifleman he cameoff victorious, having killed 15 rabbits out of 17 shots.He used to say that ho was the Scotch ‘ leather stock¬ing “ He could also use the common fowling-piece toadvantage, to the fatal experience of many an unfor¬tunate mavis who looked upon Iiaeburn‘8 cherries ascommon property,-It was already mentioned that he maintained an an¬cient hand-maiden to take charge of his diary and dohousehold work. From the length of time they livedtogether we may infer that Thomas was no tyrant, oroppressor; and he displayed one most unequivocaltoken of a kind heart—he displayed great fondness, nay,affection, to the little dumb creation he kept about him.He had as many cats, and fed them as well as any oldmaid ever did in broad Scotland, and was so well knownto the little birds of the air that they would come withfluttering wings at his call, perch on his shoulder, andpeck the very crumbs from his Aaronic beard.Some years before his death Raeburn slipped his footduring frosty weather and broke his arm ; as he in¬cluded the sons of Galen in the same category withlawyers, taxmen, and gaugers, he would not call a doc¬tor, so that the bone never having reduced secundu*ahtem, his arm was rendered nearly useless.Thomas was no great philologist, and yet he couldreadily detect any breach of the purity or elegance oflanguage in others ; and many were the times whenyoung gents, who imagined they were perfect James10*Ohrichton‘s in learning, felt the keenness of his criticism,fie was by no means a second Solomon in wisdom, buthad a tolerable share of wit occasionally. His visitorswere many, indeed it would till a volume to recounttheir names. He was asked once by a visitor if hemight light bis pipe ; “ No,“ said Thomas, “ but youanay light what’s in your pipe,“ “Were you everdrunk, Mr Raeburn,“ said a rather rude customer oneday ; “ No, sir,“ answered the hermit, “but 1‘m nextneighbour just now to a chiel‘ that‘s drunk as often ashe can get it.“ Thomas was brought up a Calvanist,but for the last thirty years and upwards, never wentto church ; he probably felt that his outer appearancewould cause more evil in and to others, than all thegood he could receive. At one time he admitted of novisits on Sabbath, but latti rly his house and gardenwas filled on that sacred day with crowds of every ageand sex from morning rill night. We are sorry to re¬cord this part of the hermit‘s character, but tkuTH aswell as MuniiKR must out.Although Thomas was very fond of money, he be¬trayed great inconsistency in some matters, suffering hisfarm to lie unploughed, and the manure ol his cattle torun to waste.He left several thousands of pounds, as far as we canlearn, among distant relations. He never enjoyed thetrue comforts of life, and yet, after all, he perhaps en¬joyed in his own way, what he deemed happiness. Heis only another proof that all is vanity beneath the Sun.W e cannot conclude without observing, that althoughScotland, by the all-powerful hand of Death, is nowdeprived ot her Ayrshire hermit, there exi-ts a bonafide one about a mile pasi Kilmun kirk. We saw andconversed with this recluse last July. He resides a fewyards off the right hand side of the public road whichleads to Straebur. He is a tall thin man, above sixtyyears of age, and took up bis abode there some yearsago. It would appear that, like Thomas Raeburn, hehad been unfortunate at Law, and although not dis-11gusted with the world, determined to live perfectly a*a recluse. He has a neat little cottage, (built with hisown hands if we recollect aright) and there are nowindows in it, properly speaking, only a few small holesnear the top of the wall, about a foot square each. Hacultivates a little garden, beside which falls a spout ofclear water ; and he keeps a few goats. He is verypolite and conversible with strangers ; who generallymake him a small present. Gentle reader, you can anyday in 3 hours sail, and at the expense of a few shillings,see and converse with this real living hermit, for; un¬like Raebnrn, he has no hand-maiden. Further, shouldany of you be particularly inclined, whether throughdisappointment in love or money matters, or by havingtoo much of the latter to look after, to become hermitsor hermitesses, be kind enough to send us your addressand a postage stamp, and we shall direct you to a safelocation, where you will run little risk of being intrudedon by “villainous mankind/1 and at the same time en¬joy plenty of turnips and cold water.JUST PUBLISHED.Price Threepence ; or by return of Post on the re¬ceipt of 4 Postage Stamps.INFANT SALVATION;OR,ALL DECEASEDINFANTS IN HEAVEN,BYWILLIAM MMILLANKIRKINTILLOCH:PUBLISHED BY WILLIAM M‘MILLAN.THECAIPSIE HERMIT.With Portrait, a striking likeness. Price One Penny.THE LIFE OFLOUIS KOSSUTH.With Portrait* Price One Penny,THE LIFE OFFATHER GAVAZZIWith full length Portrait. Price One Penny.Kirkintilloch: William M‘M'llan.