CHRISTACOMPLETE SAVIOUR-SERMON,ONHebrews vii. 25,Wherefore He is able to save them to the uttermost,that come unto God by him, seeing He ever tivetkto make intercessionJor them.By Mr, JOHN BUNYAN,Author «f the Pilgrims Progress, &c.rFAL KIP K:JPRrNTlD AKD *CIP rv T. K-ERsTCsr.i£a3CHRIST A COMPLETE SAVIOUR.AS E R M O N,ONHebrew s vit. 25.IVJjerefore be is able alfo to fave them to theuttermoft that come unto God by him feeingbe ever livctb to make interctjfion jor tvemrT HE \poftle, in this chapter preremeth1 in with two thi’g' that i« with thegreainef' of he perfon. ar.d of the prieithoodof our Eoro Je.u*.I. He prefenteth ui with the greatnef* ofhi, perfor., in that he preferreth him beforeAbraham, who if the father of,all the faithful;yea in that he preferreth hrm btf re M i-chifedec who w a* above Abraham, and blelledhim viho had the promife2 /As to h'u prteRhood he flv weth thegreatnefs of that in that he was maoe a melt,not by the law of a carnal commandment butbv the power of an endlefs hie, not wi hout,bat with an oath bv himtha' laid k’ l he Lordfw are and will not repent, thou art a prieli forever after the order cf M-dchifeoec. ^ here-fore this man, bscauiie he ii\eth ever, hath anun-( 3 )muncViang^aWe r.rienhood.” Now mv text isdrawn from ttiu conclaHon. naroelv. tha> CbrifSabideth a prieft cobtinuaUv: VVhcrtfo’e heis able alfo to fave to the unermdft their thatcome unto God bv him leeing he ever iivethto make interceflion for them.”In the words, I take notice of four thhng*.J N ,1. Of the Interceffion of Chritl: “ He raak-eth intdrceffion.”2. Of the benefit of hr interctlficn*41 Where¬fore he is able alio to lave to the uttermoll,’ Sic.3 We have alfo here fet before us, the per-fons interefted in this intei c ffibn of Ghrill, andthey arethofe that came unto Gao by"him.’?4 We have alfo here the certainty of theirreaping this bent fit bv him to wit, »• Seeing heever livcth to make interctfii n for them. —Wherefore he is able to lave them to theutteimoll, that come unto G d by him feeinghe ever liveth to make intercefficn foi them.1. We will begin with his interctffior, andwill Qietr you, vl‘ What it is.2. For what he intercedes. And,3 What is alfo to'be inferred from ChxilV*Raking interceffion for us.i. I4 )I. I begin then with the fine that t*. To■fliew you what interctffien i . Intercefijon isprayer; but all prater is not inure-ffior.—Inttrceflion. then i> that pra\er that i* madeby a third perfon about the cor cents ha* arebetween two: And it may be made either tofet them at a farther difference or to makethem fiends; for inteiceflu.n may be maceagainft, as well a for a perfon or people:*• Wot ye not what the Scripture faith ofSUias how he ma'’e inter coffion to Clod againltlirael? ’ But the inte-C' fii n that we are nowto'fpeak of i not an imerccflion againll butan interctffion f>r a.people; •• He ever livethto mr.ke mercoffi n for them ” The high-pritils ^ere ordained fot, and not to be againftthe peop>e: livery high prieft taken fromamong men i* ordained for men. in thingspertaining to God to make reconciliation torthe lin? of the peopk or that he may offerboth gifts and lacrtfices for fin. This, then,is interceffiofi : anu the inteic«fiion of Chtiftis to be between two. between G-d and man,for man’s good And,a It extendetb itfelf unta thefe;iyi. To pray that the el* A may be broughtall home to him, that is, to Goo.-idly To pray that their fins committedafter converfkn, may be forgiven them.3<//y ' To p*av that their graces which theyreceive at Cvnveihon, n.ay be maintained aidfup^ikdt4/i>/y, To■$thly To pray that their perftss rray 'hs1preiei ved unto hi; heaveni) kngdcir..IThis is the interc (Hon of Thrift, or that]for which he doth rr.alie interceffiviiift He prav* for al! the tlefl that \\e,ymar be brought h< rre to God. and fo into theu ity tf the faith This ciear, for thathe taith ‘ Neither pray l for thefe alone.”that is, for tiicie only th ar are convert id,'1*• but for -hein e.Ko that -h all believe on r ethrough their word -for all them hat ft,a 11,that are appointed ro believe; or a jo.u have it j(a little above “ for all them v hich thou hr-ftgiven me ” And the reafott re for tha he ha h !paid a tarfom fcr them. Ghrilt. thettfore,v. hcn he makerh inttretfhon for the urgodly, j(and all the unconverted eie£i are fuchj C< ihbut pctiticr anly alk f r his own his pu chattelones thafe for v-h -m he died before, that ih*ymay be laved by hu biood.a<f/y. When any of them are brought hrttieto God, he yet pray; for them; namely’, thatthe fins which through infirmity thev after•Converfion commit, may’ elfo be forgiven there.I h'u h lbewed us by the interciflion of thehrgb.prieft under the ’aw, that v as to bearaway the iniquities of the holy thing* of theChildren of lirael; yea, and alio by hn atone¬ment for them ihr finned ; for that it i, fa;tj*l ihe priell ihall mak; an atonement forhim for the fin which he hath finned, and itTin? alfo i» inti-na'ed ever.,v.’here our LordGoth make intercaffioh, !a- i’'g “ I p;ay notthat thou fttou dsii take tiiem cur ot the wo: Id,fcut that th nt o/ouioed keep them from thefevii.” That Chrift prayed hat the convetudUiould b- kept from «U manner of commifTh nof (in, ntuh n t be (uppyltd, for tfa: i- thewav to make his inrerctiTun at Ittft in fortethings, ir and to contradifl himielf;*• k'or fa'til he Ikno ■ thou hear? ft mt always.”liut the nteani’ g r I | rav tha thou wcuideftkeep them fr* m fruhtlamnu g delufiors inch»* a’ e unavoidably fucb, ail’o t hat thou woulaeftkeep them from the (oiil defttO) ir g e\ il < fevery'fin cf every temptation. Nov this hedoth by his jrevailitg and pardoning giact. yfn hi imercifiion. he prsteth alfo,that .thofe grace* which we receive at cenver-fjon. may be maintained and fupplied ] hisis clear where be faith, Simon, Simon, "a anha? tiefiied to have you that he might hft youas wheat, but l have prayed for thee that thyfaith fcttl not ” Ay may fume fay he is laidto pray lieie for the fupport and iupply of faith •,bat dorli it therefore follow,’that he prated forthe maiatainirg and fupply cf ali our graces?Yes. in that he prayed for the prefer vat loti of■our farli he pravea for the prefet vation of allour graces ; for faith is the mother-grace, theroot-grace, the grace that hath all others^jnthe Dowels of it, and that from which all othersflow; yea* it i* that which gives being to allour other graces, and that by which ali the icitdo live. Let then faith be preferred, and allgraces continue and live, that is, tccordii®'o( 7 >the prefcnt Oste. hcelth and dregrre cf faith,S t th<rn Chrift pra ed for the pt efervaui ii cfevery grace when he piayed for the prtfcrva-tion of faith Tha text alio is of the lametendency, where he lat h ‘ K -ep through timeOwn came thole «horn tin u halt given me.”Keep them in thy fear in the faith in >ht truereligion, in the vav of life, by thy grace, bythy power, by thv wildom &c. i his muii bemuch the irieanirg of thi% p«ace ; and he thatexcludes thi fen e wifi make but poor woikof another expofition.4tb/y He alfo, in his in'erc^iT.r.n p'rayeththat jur nerl'ons be prefervtd aim brought lafeunto his heavenly kingdom. A.rd thi^ he doth,i/i By pleading intereft in them.2ctly By. pleading that he had given feypromii'e, glory to them.3o7y, By pleading his own refolution tohave it fo.4tbly, By. pleading tlte reafoc, why it muffbe fo.>7^* “e prav* that their perfrn* may cometo glory, tor that they are his, and that by thebelt cf titles: k‘ Thine they were, and thougavelt them me.” Father, I .will have them.Father I will have them for they are mine:"VV hat is mine my wife, or my child, or myjewel, or my joy. fure I may have it with me.Thus therefore he pleads, or cries in his in-tezfctfhon,'( 3)ftercdOi>n., that our perrons,might be preTervsdtto glory: l", They are tninCj and tiaou gaveftithem me.”3r//y, He alfo : pleads that he had given,jgiven .already, that i*. in the promii'e. gloryto them; and thtref.re they muft not gowithout it*. ‘ A.r,d the glory which thou gavellme I have given them. ’ R ghteousmen whenthey give n goou thing by, pcomife. they ceGgnthe perfunriacce of that promife ; nay, treymore than dchgn it, thev put pole, they de-■termipe it. As Balaam laid of Hod in anothertCale, “ Hath he laid, anti (had he not do it?Or hath he Ipoken, anti Hiall he not make itgood?” Hath Ohrid given u* gtory, anc fliallv/e not have it? Yea. ha h the I ruih itfeifibedowed it upon, uj, and (hall thofe to whomit is given, be yet depiived there of?'d’y. He pleads, in his interceding that theynvg'ru have glory, his own reloluti-ir. to haveit io : *• d'aiher, l will that thofe whom thruhad given me be with me where I am.”—Behold ve here he is refolved to have it fo;it mud be fo ; it dia’l be lo; [ will have it fo.We read of Adon jah, that fei* father neverdenied him any thing. He never laid to him.Why had th >u done fo? (Indeed he dented himthe kingdom for his brother was heir of thatfrom the Lord. .■ How much more will curFather let our Lord Jelut have his mind andwill in this, fince he alto i as willing to haveit fo, as is the Son himlelf ? Fear not. littledock it;h your Father’s good pltalure to giveyou the kingdom.” Rrfolution will drive thug*far efpeciallv refolotion to do that which tion^b Jt they that cannot hinder Ihall oppo e, Why,th'» i> the cafe, the refolu' ion of our In t ere til ri* that we oe preferved t ? giory ; yea and thisrefolution he pleads in hi» interih n: ‘ b ather,I will that thole *h>ch thou na • given me. bew th me where I auij 6tc. Mult it not theiC-fore now be io ?4tbly He alfo. in the place, in thi^ fftainui c fli <n. urges a reafon wh» he w ill haveit fo. ni nelv,k- I'hat they may behold nv gloryv h ch thou had given me ; for thou lovedit mebefore the foundation of the world. *And thi* ii a reafon to the porpofe. It isas if he had laid H'a.her. thrfe have continuedv/ith mein my temptations, thefe have ften meunder all my difadvatstage* , thel'e have fecn mein my poor, low, contemptible condition , thefehave feen what (corn reproach, {landers anddilgrace I have borne f sr thy lake in the world jand now I will have them alfo to be where-theyfinll fee me in thy glory. I have told then' that1 am thy Son and they have bedeved that; I havetold them that thou iovelt me. and they havebelieved that; l have alio told t}um that thouwouidlf take me again to glory, and they havebdievedthat; but they have nntletn my glory,,nor can they but be like the Qjeen of Sheba,they will b it believe by the halves, unlefs theirown eyes do behold u. Belides, father, ihefeare they that love me, ana it Will be a greatincreale of their j iy if they may but lee me inglory; It will be as an heaven to their hearts,t® fee taeir Saviour in S*oiy; “ I will there-.fero,,( 10 )that r.h'ife which thou ®tven me bewith me where I aru that hey may beholdiny gl>ry.” i’hi?. tijerefote is a reafon whyChn i Jtjaa, oar Lire, intercede* to have hi*people with him in glory.3. I come now to the third thing namely.To ,he* you what h to be inferred from Chntl Smilking interceffion for u:.i/>, This is to be inferred from hence Thatfaint* (for I will here fay nothing of thole ofthe ele£t uncalled) do oft-times give occafiooof offence toGjd, even they that have receivedgraje : For intercefli m i» made to continue onein the favour of another, anti to make up tholebreaches that anytime (hall happen u be madeby one, to the alienating of the aff.Elions ofthe other. And thus he make? reconciliationfor iniquity. For reconciliation may be madejor iniquity two wavs : Firft, By paying ofa price, fcecondly, By infilling upon the pricepaid for the offender, by way of interctfSon.Therefore you read that as a goat was to bekilled, fo his blood ^a. by the prieft to beerought within the veil, and in a way of in-terceffion to be fprinkled before and upon themercy-feat: Then {had he kill the goat ofthe iin-i ftering that is for the people, and bringh'» blood within the veil; and do with thatblond at he dia with the blood of the bullock,and I'prinkle it upon the mercy-feat, and beforethe mercy-fea.< and he ijirdi make an atone¬ment for the holy place, becauje of the un-cleanne/Ls of the children of Ifrael. and be-caa^c (jf their tranigrejfujfts in all their fin*.1 ’ AndC IX )And fo (hail he do for the tabernacle of theo ngrtga u>n ;hat remaineth among thtm inthe midtt of all their uncleanneffei.” 1 hi*wa- to be done a: you fee that the abernecle,which v a* the place of God's pretence andgraces might yet remain among the childrenof lirael, nor-vichtiandit g their ULCieannefi'e*and^tranfgrelTi'n*. This alio is the effect ofChrilt’s interctfli n; it is, that the hgns ofGod i pretence and his grace might remainamong his people, noiwithdandiug they haveby their trantgn ffions fo often provoked Godto depart from them,idly^ By Chrid’s interceffion I gather, thatav.-akened men and women, inch as the gcdlyare, dare not, after offence given come i ‘ theirown names to make unco God an applicationfor mercy. God, in himfelf, is a coniumirgfire, and hn has made the bed of us as fiubbieis to fire. Wherefore they may not. theycannot, they dare not approach God s prefencefor help, but by and through a mediator ardinterceffor. When [(rael law the fire, theblackneis and ctarknefs, and heaid the thunderand lightning, a':d the terrible tound of thetrumpet. the\ laid to Moles Speak thou untous and we will hear: But let hoc God fpeakwith us, lell we dle.’, Guilt, and a feme ofthe diiparity that is betwixt Gju and us, v illmake as look oat tor one that may lav hi handupon m both, and that may let us right in theeyes of our ifai.her again. This, I fay, l inferfrom the iniercejlion of Ghritt. f or, if therehad been c pclffpiiity of our ability to haveapproached Gea with advantage without it,what.C )wfia» tiped had there been of the intercefEotiaf Chri t ?Xbialom durft not appr oach no not 'he pre*fence of hi* fa her by himfelf, without a medi¬ator and interetff r; wherefore he fenrit forJ i-tb to go to the ki: g. and make inrerc> fltonfor him. Alfo J ab duht not go upon thaterrand himrelf. but by the mtd’.auon cf another.Sin b a fearful thing it will quafh and quellthe courage of a man and make him afraid toapproach the preience of him, whom he hasoffended, thqugh the offended is but a man.How much more then fhali it ditcourage a man,when orce load^n with guilt and fhame. fromattempting to approach the prefence of a holyand fin-revenging God, unlef* he can come tofetm through and in the name cf an interceffor.But here now is the help and comfi rt of thepeople of God. There i* to help fhem underall their infirmities, an Interceffor preparedand at work : He ever livetb to make interc'Jfiou,3<5?yr l alfo infer from hence. That (houldwe, out of an ignorant boldnef- and prefumption,attempt, when we have off nded by ourfelverto approach >he prefence of G d. he would notaccept us. Me told E;iphcs lo. What ILliphaathought, or was about to do, I know not ; butG 'd laid unto him, “ My wrath t* kindledagainl! tl-e, a^r-d againlt thv two friends, fury^u have not fpoken of me the thing that isright, as my fervant J b ha h. I herefore,take uato you feven bu:lucks and feven rams,and go to ny lervant Jdb, and off. r up foryounelvti that is by mm a btirni-cffering;and my fervant Job diail pray for you, for himwill.( *3 )will I accept; left I deal with you after youtftoi in hat ye have net fpoken of rae thething that i* right, like my fervant Job.8_>e nure, an offence i a bar and an obltruftiouto acceptance with God but by a mediator,bu by an interctffor. He that comes to Godby himleli, God will aniwer him by himlelf*ithat is, without an mterceffor: -^nu i will tellyou luch are nor like to get ary pleafant orc mfortabie anlwei : ‘ l "ill aiuwer httn thati io come h, according to the multitude of hitidols; And l will fet my face againlt that man,and will make him a lign and a proverb; andI will cut him iff from the midtt cf my people i.i And ye fhall know that I am the Lord.,”He that intercedes for another with a holy' and juft Gjd, had need to be e’ean himlelf,; leil he, with whom he fo bufieih himfelt, layto him Ktrft clear thyfelf. and then come and;] fpeak for thy friend. VVheiefore this i* the.very deicription of this our High Prieft andtbieffea InterctlTor: •• hor fuch an High Prietti. became ui who is holy, harmleli undefiltd,il fej ara e from Tinners and mace higher than'i the heavens; who needeih not daily, as thofeI high-prielb. to effer up facrifices, firft for hit] own tins,’ Stc. Had we not had tech an Imer-) ctfli/t, we nad been in a very poor cafe; buti we have one tna: becomes us, ore that fits usI to the purpofe one againit whom our Godi hath nothing can obj A nothing; one in wholet mouth no guilt couiu be fount,4tcly< Since Cbrift is an Interctffcr, 1 infer,tha i. t has a he re withalin itacineis toanlwert.M any dtntancs that may be prcpounctc byhis*i U )him that hath been bv u* offended in order toa rene vinga1" peace hnd letting out that graceto us hat we have finned a wav, and yet haveneed of. Oct times the offended faith to theinterceffor. Well, thou comelf to me aboutthi- man, what itnereft he has in thee i? onething, what offence he ha* committed Egainftme i* another. VI fpedk mu after the mannerof men . Now, what can an intercefTor do,if he i< not able to ani'wer thi* q lefiioni rtut,if he be able to anfwer this quetUcn that is,according to law and juflice n ; que don but hemay prevail with the offended, for him forwhom he make* in'erceffion.Why, this is our cafe; to be fare thus farwe have offended a jail and holy God, andJefu< Chrid is become our IntefCelfor. Heknows full well, that for our parts, if it wouldfave us from hell, we cannot produce, towardsa peace with 0 d, any thing that can by lawand juilice be etlecmed worthy; therefore hemakes interceffi'n. It follow* therefore, thathe hai wherewith of his own to anfwer everyrcafonable demand Hence it is faid, that hehas gd’ts as well as facrifices for lir.: Hveryhigh prieil is ordained to < fFer gifts and facri-fice* ; wherefore it rs of ntc liity, that thismm have fdrhewhat a.l’o to offer ” Arul hereobferve, that t! ; apoLtle fpeak* here of Chriil .a m heaven, there miniifering in the lecondparr of hu offic*', For if he were on earth,he ihould not be a prieft.” 1 hvfe gif'*, there¬fore, and this-facrifice, he now offaeth inheaven by way of interctffioh, urging andp eading as an Interceffor. the valuab’enef* ofhis gifts, far the pacifying of that wrath thatour( )aur Fa'her hath conceived againft us, for thedi:v-t>fdie»ce that »e are guilts’ of: 'A gtftin iccret pacifie h «r,ger and a re ard in theb~lom hrong >r&tn.” Wha’ gifts thde ate,(the Sc ipturts e\ ery-vt here tf Uifies: He gavehunleif he gave his life, he gave hi all for us.I’hele gifts a he < fferect the® up at theI demand of JuUice. on Mount Calvary, for U‘;4o now he is in heaven, he prefenceth them:eon inuallv before God. & gifts and laci ifice,va’uabie, for the fin for all the fins we throughinfirmity tio commit, from the day cf our con-verli m to the day of our death. And thefe!j gifts are fo fatisfailory, fo prevalent W’th God,i that they alsvays prevail for a continual re-i rr.iffi n of our fins with him. Yea ibty pre»i vail with him for more than for the remiffion1 of fins; we have, through their procurement,i our graces often reneweo the devil often re-| buked, the fnare often broken, guilt often1 taken away from the conicier.ee, and many3 a bleffed [mile from God, and love-look fromI his hie creating countenance.Stily. Since Chrifl is an Interctfior. I infer,T. hat oelievers Ihouid not retl at the ctols forcomfort; .Juftiucation they fliould lock fortheie; anil being juliifiett by hi? blood, theyIhouid aicend up after him to the throne —At the crou you will fee him in his iorro*.8and humiliations. \t'. his tears ai o bicofl ■, buti follow him to wheie he is now. ard rhtn you-(liall fee him in his robes, in his piielll) robes,ana with hit gulden gircTe about his paps.—Then ,y ou fball let, him wearii g^the breal.-plateef jadgementi &nd with all your names writteuupon( 16 )uoon hi< henrt. Then vou tliall perceive, tha'the vhole fimily in heaven andeani i* namecbv him, and ho he prevaiie.h with God. tht tfather of .nerciea fvr you. Stard Rill a while,and iiiten vea. enter vi h bddnefi into thehoiieft and fee you Jefus ai he now appeariin he pre ence of G d for you; what worihe rrakei ajamd the devil and fin, and dea'hand hell f n 'vou. Ah, it u b ave fellow ing;of J fui Cnriil to the hoiieil. the veil U rent,you may fee with open face a in a gla(* iheglory of the Lord This hen i» our High-Pridl thi. is the interctffim, theie are thebenefits nf it. It lieth in oar part to improve it;and srifdom to do tha , alfo Cometh from themere .'.feat or hrene of grace, where he evenoa- 11.gh Pried, ever live th to make imerceffionfor us. To whom be glory for ever and everAnd thu I have fpoken to the firit thing,to-wit, Of the interci lfion of Chrill.' II. And now I c me more particularly tofpeak to the fecend viz The benefits of hi»Intei celfion, namely, 1 hat we are favtd there,by: *• Wherefore he is able to fave them,leeing he match interceffi n for them, rieis al*»e to fave them to the uttermoft.”In handling of thi» head I mull (hew you,t. What the Apoftle mean* here byJave%Wherefore he is able to Jave.a What he mran* here by favirg to theauermoU, tie is able to fave to the uttermoft*3. And< *7 )3. And then v^e fliall do as we did in thefoifgoi^g. to-wit gather e Inftitict* fjomthe whole, and Ipeak to them.I. What doth the Apoftle mean hereby fcve.He it able to fuve tbt m.To Jcvey ma) bt taken two wsy>. in theI the general: l-kr>ow it may be taken manyi v.ay;; for there are many (aivatiors that wei erj y, yea that we never knew of. nor can■ i.know, .until '*e come thither v here all iecretIII thing- (hall be leer and where that which ha*+ been done in datkneli fltall be prcclam.ea uponl.thc huufe top.But I fay, there are two-way i that thi« wordss:may be taken :j/f. To fave in a way cfjuf if cation.2^, Or to fave in a way of prefervaticn.}|Now Cbnfl fave* both thefe way* tutI -which cf the'e, or w he;her both of them are| intented in thif place, of that I {hall tell yeW: my thctghts arctr; mean.while I wilifl.ev. yen,(i.) W hat it is to be faved in the firft fer.fe.(tl.) And alfo how that is brought to paf?.(l ) To be faved, is to be delivered from| the guilt of fin that i* by the law, a it it ihe■imniitianon of dta h ard condemraticn ; or tohe let free thciefrcm before Gcd. 1 hi* i«to be faved i for he that u rot let free thero-from,( 18 )from whatever he may thir.k of himfelf 01whatever oihers may think concerairg him,he it a condemned man : It faith not, Le ftiallbe, but, he i» c* ndemneri already. The reafonis, for that he ha» neferved the Sentence of theminillration of cordt mnation. v hich i? the law;yea that law hat a rea<~y arraigned, seen led,and condemned h m he fere fjed, for that ithath fcuid him. guilty of fin. Kow he that islet free from ihi», or a the ] h; afe is, beingtnade free from tin, that i , from the imputationof guilt there can to him be no cor detdnatioh,no condemratten to hell-fire ; but the perfon.thus made free, may properly be laid to belaved, V\ hertfore. -as forrtt’rnes it t* faid,Me thall be laved, relpedtirg tavirg in the.lecond lenfe. or the utmoil completit g of fal-vation; to, fometimea, it i» laid we aie laved,a- refpe£Urg our being already ft cured freraguilt and fo from condemnaMc n to hell for fin,and lo fet fafe. and. quit tiom the tecoiici Deathbefore God,'2 ) Now, faving thus comes to us bv whatChri1: did for ui in thi, voriel bv what Chriftdin for u a' tuflering for ul*. 1 fay, it d me*to u thus; tha is it come: to us by g'ace,through the redemption that is in Chrill Andthu' to be laved, is called -jullificaticn to life,btcaufe one thus fa^d is, as 1 laid acquittedfrom guilt, and that everlaiiing oarrnation towhich far fin, he had made himfelf obnoxiousby the law.Ffence we a,-e faid to be Caved by the deathcf Ch-ift. julhlied by hi blood, and reconciledto God by the death of his Sen; alt whichmuffC *9 )refpf A h\» rjOFenr^ of on t^e «?ayhe died and not h'?» irapfovjr g (-f hi- fo doing:n a way of interceffi n : b'-c^ufe in the famebiaee the \pofile reiVrvtth a he rd or an:iddi ioial fai.ation and spplieth that to hi#! nterctfli n: • M-ich more then being now,Or already jUnified b his b'ood. we (had beUved fidta vvta’.h through him.” That is,itnrcugh what he v ill further f o for us 5 “ H or,ftf when we were enemies. wc were reconciledto God by *; e death of his Son. much moie,bring reconciled til at i» by hi* death v-eicfball be la/ed by hu life ” hiv iaterctui •»,'Vfhch he ever hveth to comple.e.bee here, v/e are laid to be j.uhified. rtcon-Icitrd already, and therefore we (hail be !.a<-ed,1 JrlVified by his blood and dea-h, a. d laved(1 through hiro by hU jife.Now the favirgjntendtd in the text i favirgkin this fecond Verife; that ia a fevi: g o{ u- byBprelerving us, by dpUvering oi u- from all thofeI hazards that ye run betwixt our \'a‘e of ju> tfi-J catich and our (late of g’oiificaiii n. Yea,Huch a. laving of u-, a* we ’ hat a,e,juit.».tied needsi to bring us into glory. Therefore,r ' " '' -c/y. When he faith, “ He i* able t* {-ave,I feeiiig he ever liveth to malte interc-ifion,”I he acdtth laving to favingi having by hi» life,i to having by hi» death ; having by his, impicvingij cf his blood. 10 having by his ipilhngofhi: blood.|l fit gave him'e’f a ranfotn for us, and now im-fj jjrov^e* that gift in the pi eft nee of God. by. way)' of inferceffi rn.For. a* I have hinted before the high pried*under the law, took the blood cf the faenficesthat( 30 )were <•{!’ red for (in and brorf^ht it withe veil and i-here fprink ed it before auootj th * merev.!ea'% and by it made interc;fion for the peopie, to an additional a ayfavirg Th^m: the fum of vvhich Paul thti* apue to Ghriit tvh n he tai:h fie canfeeing be ev< r livetb to make intercrjjion.Ftm alio in he R. mani. n c ear totpur pole.4* Who is he that condemneth? ItChriil that died.” Phat is. Who is he thiihall lav anv thing to the chargdof G ;d't ele^lto condemnation to hell fines Ghnlf has takelt;a vay the car e by hts d;a..h from before G>0Then he adds tha! there t«, nothing that ihai!•yer happen to u?, (hall deftroy us, fince Chriltalio livsth to make incerctfii n for us: “ Wh(hall condemn? It is Chritt that died; yea|trather that i* rifen agnin, who even i* at thngnt hand of 'G -d, and maketh interceffuii•for u?.”ChriiVthen by his dea'h 7ed us a* we artfinner* ene nie? and in a {lase ot condemns io• by fin ; and Chert! by hit life, laveth us, aijConfidered jullified and reconciled to G td by|his blood. So then, we have lalvation from]that condemnation that fin had brought on u»,j-and faivation from thofe ruin* that all thenemie* of our fouls would yet bring u* unto,but cannot, which the interceffiun ef Chri;iprevemefh.Chrid hath redeemed us from the curfe 0the lav; wha.'ever the lav can take hold of,to curfe us T>r that Chrid ra redeemed u*from, by being made a curfe f r us. But thi*curfe that Gorid wa- made for u*, mult be^confined to his luffering<, not to his exaltation;md confequefltly. not to his irtercfflion forChrilt wa« made ro curft- but v hen he luflcied,not in hi'interofii n So then, «• he died heook a • ay the curfe. and tin. that wa* t»,e caufehereof by the facrifice of himlelf, and by hit«fe his intercefli n he faveth as from all thofeMng> that attempt to bring us again into thatlondemnationTh* falvatioti then that v.e have by the in-HTCeffion of Chrill as was faid fpeak rowf them >hat are disable of receiving comfortInd relief by this dcflrine), is (alvation thattollo'vs upon, or that Comes after ju ification-iVe that are faved, as to j iilificatiod of life,ueed yet to be faved * irh that which prefer veil:b glory. For though, by the dta h of Chritl,te are faved from the cat fe < f the law, yetittempts are mafle b', many that we may be!fpt from the glory thar jaftitied perf ns a: eik-tigned for; and from the.e we are faved byilis interceffion.i A. man that mud be e^ernallv faved, is to..be .confidered i As an heir uf wra h. a A*n heir of God.I An heir of wrarh he is in himfeif bv fin;n heir of God he is iry gr^ce through Ghnli.Ifow, as an heir of wra h he is reoeemed, andi an heir of God he h prefe’ved : A an heirf wra h he t< redeemed by blood, end as aaeir.of God, he is preserved by this ir.tei ctfiion.) Chrith, by hi dea h ih n put. n e 1 otiigBCC' roiled tc God ihtrtby. nvc a jutlifitd lia t;mdGcd accepts me to grace and lav our ihicughlim: but this doth not hinder bi t that. a;i thislotw iihftepnirg, theit t»e tl at v. < use fivl t.eie of the end u> v Inch i on» dei gned t\ tl i*j1 re-reconciliation to Gr>d by rederfiption througi i>tg'ace; and from the accomplifhing of thi* de-fign 1 am ravd by the bkfled intercethon o;our Lirj J^fut Ghritt.Obj^cl i. Per'nap* feme may fay, we are «r.ot laved from all panifhment of Gn. by tht1dea'h of Chrift; fo not frorr- all danger ot >damnation L; the interceffion of Chrilt.Anfw. We are faved from all punifhreenfin heli-fire by the death of Chrilt Jeiu* has ii'idelivered u* from the wrath to come. So that,ai to this grea’- punifhment. God, for his fake. I;hrv forgiven ua all trefpafles. But w'e being itranfkted from being (lave* to Satan, to be fona rof God, G )d re'efveth yet this liberty in hit It*hand to challite u<. if we offend^ as a father [>chaftifeth his fan; but this chatlifement is not:in Irgil wrath but in fatherly sffe&ion not (i.to dettroy us, but that {till we might be madeto get advantage thereby, even be made par¬taker* of his holineis. that we might not be«condemned with the world.I,THE APPLICATION*I come now to make fome .a pr lication ol ithis dilcourfe. And let me exhert yi u to thetfludy of this as of other the truths . f our nLord Jelus Chnlt. The prieftly tfliee o' ►Chrill, is the firlt and gteat thing tha' is tpeefented to us in thc gofpel; namtlv. Howithat, he died for our fins, and gave himfelf to ■the crols, that the bleflirg of Ab-cham might!come upon m> through him. But now. becaufe i,..this iC 23 ^rjthi*. prieHly cfiice of hi* ii cliviccd ?nto t^vopart-, anti bf caaie one of thtm. vit this ofhis in'erctffion is to be accomplifhed for u«iwi'h’n rhe veil; therefore 'as ve ia\ amongmen out-of fight cut-of m;ndj he is too much,as to this, forgotten by us We faiisfy our.felveso with the Ilayirg of the facrifice ; we lookmot enough after our Aaron as he goes intothe holiell, there to Iprir.kle the raeroy-featwith blood upon our account,God forbid that the lead fyllable of v hatIt fay. Chould be intended by me. or confhuedipy others, as it 1 fought to diminifh the p ice..paid by Chriftforour redemption in thi* world.iBut fince hi* dying is hi laying down his piice,'3rd his imetcefii n the ntgitg and managingthe worthinei* of it in the prefer ce of God■;ipgaind Satan there is glory to b^ found therein,and we fbould look after him into the h ly place.The fecond pait of the ork of the high pried*finder the la v had great glory and fai;£lity puttiipon it; for as.mi ch as the holy garments wereprovided for him to t fliciatc in wi bin the veil:nifo it was there that the altar Hood, on w hichle > fiered incenfe Alfo, there was the mercy-reat and the cherubim* of glory ' which were'igures of the angels that love to be contm-1 ally looking and paying into the managementf this fecond part of the priedhcod of Cnnftm the prefence of Gtd. For a'uho themielvesyre not the perform fo immediately c-nterned^herein as v. e. yet the management oi it, 1 lay,| with fo much grace, end gior y and wildtm,snd effeftualne's that it i> a heaven to the angel*J fee it! O to erjov the odorrUs fcent ard1 veet memorial, the heart retreftnng perfume*i that( 14 )that aTcend continually frotn the mercv-fr nt tcthe above w here God i* ! and alfo to behqldhow tffeftoal it is to the end for which uiadefigned, i* gioriou*Improve thefe doArines to yoarfelves anT. Improve them to your acquaintsrcet.by labouring to inllill them upr»n their heartsby good and wholefome words preienting allto them with the authority of the Scriptures.* Labour to enforce thefe didillings upomthem by (hewing them bv thy life the peace,the giorioua effefts that they have upon thyown foul.LafUv, Let thi» doftrine give thee boldnef*to come to God If thrill be interceding inheaven, O then be thou a praying man on earth;,yea take courage to pray. Think thus withthyfelf: I go fo God to God before wholethrone the Lord Jefu* is ready to hand mypetitions to him; ye. He ever lives to makeintercrffion for roe. Thu is a great encourage¬ment to coroe to God by prayers and fupphea-tiom for ourfelves and bv intercefli ns lor ourfamilies, our neighbours, and enemies.F J N / S.