THE RENOWNEDHISTORYOF THESeven Champions of Christendom;St. George of England,St. James of -'pain,St- Andrew of Scotland,St. David of Wales,St. Dennis of France,St. Anthony of Italy,andSt. Patrick of Ireland.GLASGOW:Published and Sold Wholesale and Retail, byR. Hutchison & Co. 10, Saltmarket.SHEWING,Their valiant Exploits both by Sea and Land: theircombating with Giants, Monsters, Lions, and'Dra¬gons: their Tilts and Tournaments in honour oftheir Mistresses: their overcoming Magicians andNecromancers, and putting an end to th^ir direfulEnchajitip. nts:. their Knighthood, Chivalrv, andmagnanimous prowess, ^against the enemies ofi rrt honour*©!*Christendom, in JLurcpe,Asia, and Africa. **THE RENOWNED HISTORYOF THESeven Champions of Christendom.C H A P. I.The Birth of St. George; he's he veas stolen axe ayfrom his Nurses,- and how he delivered himselfand the other Six Champions, from the Cave ofKalby, the Enchantress.A FTER that this our island (first inhabited byBrute) began to flourish with arts and arms, iathe famous city of Coventry l^ved the renowned Al¬bert, Lord High Steward of England, that took towife a lady of matchless beauty and virtue, who hav¬ing been long barren, at last conceived with child; butnightly dreams so tormented her mind, that she wasconceived of a Dragon which should cause her death,that she never ceased, but caused her Lord by art tolearn what should be the meaning thereof, who con¬descending to her desires, accompanied only withone knight, repaired to Kalby, the lady of the woods,from whom he received this mysterious Oracle:Sir Knight, return home to thy Lady,Who hath brought forth a worthy baby,A Champion bold, of courage stout,Whose fame shall ring the world throughout.Having received this answer, they soon returned, butere he came home, his Lady, by losing her own life,brought another life into the world, being deliveredof a son, upon whose breast was figured a dragon, onhis right hand a blood-rgd cross, and on his left leg agolden garter: his name was given him, George, andthre nurses provided to leek to him: notwithstand¬ing which, he was stolen away by the enchantressKalby, which, when his father upon his return found,he left his habitation for very grief, and ended his !life in a strange country.!SEVEN CHAMPIONS, &c. 3In the mean time, St. George grew in strength andbeauty, whose noble deportment (being now grownto man’s estate) so fired the heart of the enchantresswith lust, that with all the seducement imaginable shesought to accomplish her desires, and to gain his-af¬fections, revealed to him of what lineage he was, andalso gave him the command of her cave, by the gift ofa silver wand, which she put in his hand, leading himto a rock to behold some trophies ot her sorceries, butshe entering in before him, he struck the rock withhis wand which presently closed, and in it this mis¬erable woman, where she ended her wretched life.St. George then, like a valiant knight, releasedIfrom thraldom six worthy Champions, whom thisenchantress Kalby had a long time kept prisoners^viz. St. Dennis of France, St. James of Spain, St.Anthony of Italy, St. Andrew of Scotland, St. Pa¬trick of Ireland, and St. David of Walesj he withthem mounted their steeds, ‘and girding on theirswords, which also they found in the cave, departedforth to seek out adventures, travelling till they cameto a spacious plain, in rhe midst whereof stood abrazen pillar that had seven several ways leading toit, which invited these seven Champions to take eachof them a diverse path. Where we will leave six ofthem to their different progresses, and relate in thefirst place the adventures of cur English knight, asyou may read in the chapter following.CHAP II.; How St. George killed the hurvivg Dragon in Egypt,and redeemed Sabnne the King’s Daughter fromdeath. How he was betrayed byAlmidor the black■ King of Morocco, and senkunto the Sultan of Per¬sia, where he remained seven years in prison.>rrHE valiant St. George, having left the other six•* Champions, as you have heard, after some fewmonths travel, arrived within the Egyptian territories,i SEVEN CHAMPIONSwhich country was at that time annoyed with a burn¬ing c'ragon, whose hunger, if it were not every dayappeased-with the body of a true virgin, he wouldbreathe forth such a stench from his nostrils, as in¬fect ed the whole country with a horrible plague, which.for four and twenty years together continued, tillthere was not one virgin left but the King’s Daughter Ionly, and she ready next day to be offered up in sa¬crifice to him, if the dragon in the mean time was notdestroyed: wherefore the King, her father, proclaim¬ed that, whosever would combat with the dragon,and preserve his daughter s life, in renowm thereofshould have her to wife, and the crown of Egypt af¬ter his decease; all which was made known to St.George, by a hermit of that country; whereupon heresolved to undertake the adventure, and- lodging- with the hermit that night, the next morning mount¬ing his steed, he took his journey to a valley, whitherthe King’s Daughter was leading by sage matrons tobe made a prey to the dragon’s jaws, whom our Eng¬lish Knight accosting, returning her back to her fa¬ther, promised to kill that enemy of Egypt’s health,or lose his life in the encounter, and so; like a boldadventurous denight, rode to the place where th«dragon had his residence.This horrible dragon, whose monstrous proportionwould haveTrightened any body but only St. Georgeas soon as she beheld him, wallowed from her hide,ous 'den, and gave him a fierce assault with her wing:and tail, who nimbly avoided her tury, gave her sue! \>a thrust with his spear, that it shivered into five hundred pieces; the dragon coming on uf -h, smote hinsuch a deadly blow, as felled both man a d horse t«the ground; when again rising and stepping a littb ctbackwards, he went under the protection of an ovangtree, which was of such virtue,that no venom t: thindurst approach unto it, .where this valiant k. ightwhile rested him, and refreshed himself with thOF CHRISTENDOM sjuice of one of the oranges, he again entered, comb:twith the dragon, after noa«y fierce assaults, with aneager courage closed with her, and thrust his swordup to the hilt in her belly, being penetrable in no otherplace, from whence issued such abundance of purplegore as turned the grass into vermilion colour, andthen redoubling his blows, gave her such anotherthrust under the wing with his sword, as pierced herheart, liver, and bone, and made her yield her life tothe force of the conquering champion, who returnedthanks to Heaven for his victory: With his goodsword, which was called Ascalon, he cut off the dra¬gon’s head, and pitched it upon the truncheon of hisspear, rode towards the court, expecting for his goodservice to be most royally entertained.At that time Almidor, the black king of Morocco,was in earnest suit with king Ptolemy, for to have hisdaughter Sibrine in marriage, and having notice ofSt. George’s victory, fearing he would become hisrival, he intended to rob him of his honour, and tothat purpose, hired twelve Egyptian Knights, whoset upon St. George as he was coming to court; butthe valiant Champion so behaved himself, that in alittle space he made their lives pay for their treach¬ery; which Almidor perceiving, when he could dono otherwise, ran to the court, cr^ng, Victoria!Victoria! The enemy of Egypt is overthrownThis being made known to K Ptolemy, St. Georgewas most royally received by him, but far more courrteously by his beautiful daughter, Sabrine, who thenset her affections so deeply on him, as length of timewould not wear it out, which she could not forbear toexpress unto him, and once at such a time as she wasoverheard by this black-a-moor King, whose love shederided in respect to the English Knight’s, profferingto forsake her parents and idol gods, and to travel withhim wheresoever Fortune would guide their steps; allwhich was by Almidor made known to king Ptolemy,6 SEVEN CHAMPIONS -who thereupon consulting together, framed a letterto the Sultat) of Persia, in which was contained hissentence of death, and he made the messenger tocarry his own condemnation, which he very irfno-cently undertook to do; and coming to Persia, nearthe Sultan’s palace,observing their monstrous idolatry,he could ho longer hold, but threw down their ima¬ges of Mahomet and Apollo, and slew those who of-fere 1 to withstand him; insomuch that the rumourthereof being noised at the court, great forces weresent against him, whom he opposed in single self,and sent many of them to the Stygian river; but mul¬titudes overcoming valour, his numerous enemies sowearied his arm, that his never daunted courage wasforced to yield, and let his weapon fall to the ground.There was he taken and carried before the Sultan,to whom he delivered Ptolemy’s letter, who thereatmuch enraged, commanded St George to be laid in adeep dungeon, vowing he should never return there¬out unless it was to execution; where now we mustleave our English Champion, to relate the deeds of theother six. And first what befel St. Dennis of France,CHAP. III.' How St. Dennis was Transformed into a Hart byEnchanted Mulberries, and how he recovered hisshape, and put an end tc the Enchantment ofEglantine the Kings Daughter of Thessaly.SAINT Dennis, the worthy champion of France,after he parted from the other six Champions atthe brazen pillar, travelled till he came into the de-sart country of Thessaly, inhabited only by wildbeasts, where being almost famished with hunger, hechanced to feed upon ine berries of a mulberry-tree,which being enchanted by magic art, in an instanttransformed his body into the liker.ess.of a hart, (onlyhis natural reason remained) in which condition heremained a long time, bewailing his misfortune, tillOF CHRISTENDOM.^iie day shading himself under the leivr-s of thatluckless tree, he heard a hollow voice from the trunkthereof breathe forth these words: “Worthy Cham¬pion of France, know that this tree proceeds fromfair Eglantine,'the King’s Daughter of Thessaly, whofor my pride was transformed into this mulbe.rry-tree; seven years thou must continue in the shape ofa hart, when thou shalt be restored by eating of roses,which being done, cut down this tree, and therebyshall the enchantment be ended.”At the end of whi<?h prefixed time, his horse, whohad a long time left him, brought two roses in h'steeth, which St. Dennis took and ate, and immediate¬ly fell into a deep sleep, and upon his awakingj hefound himself returned again to his former shape,for which he returned thanks to God, and curiouslydecked and trimmed his horse for his worthy service.Then taking his sword in hand, proceeded to finishthe enchantment, and with one blow cut in sunderthe tree, from which issuid a most beautiful damsel,of such an angelical form, as fired the French Cham¬pion’s heart with affection to her, and after some par¬leys of love past betwixt them, they plighted theirfaiths to each other, and then travelled together toher father’s court, who received them with unspeak¬able joy and comfort; where we will leave thisChampion of France to relate what happened to St.James the Champion of Spain.CHAP. IV.Ho'w St. Jamest the Champion of Spain, killed a,;oild boar in India: hove, for the Christian. Reli¬gion, he would have been shot to death-, and howhe stole away the King’s Daughter.rpHE renowned Spanish Champion, in his progress-*■ in seeking out adventures, after many worthyacts by him atchieved, c^me to the magnificent cityof Jerusalem, just at ^uch a time as Nebuzard, tho.8 SEVEN CHAMPION}King thereof, was going out on a royal hunting, hav¬ing made proclamation, That whosoever slew the firstwild heast in the forest, should have in reward a cor¬slet of steel worth a thousand shekels of silver. ^Thirst of honour, and hope of gain, tire two spursthat prick men forward to worthy enterprises, causedSt. James to join himself to this honodrable company,yea, to outgo them in noble resolutions; for scourmgover the plain before the hunters he came info a spa¬cious forest, where his valour quickly had an object towork upon, being a mighty wild boar, lying beforehis mossy den, of such a wonderful bigness and pro¬portion as is almost incredibleto declare, but the mag¬nanimous Champion St. James nothing daunted,courageously set upon him, dealing such blows 'withhis keen falchion that ere the rest of the companycame in, he overcame that monstrous boarj cuttingoff his head, and presenting it to the King of Jeru¬salem, who accordingly gave him the reward pro¬mised: but. having inrelligv'nce immediately, that hewas a Spanish Christian, his mind was altered, thatimmediately he condemned him to die; yet for hisgood service in killing the boar, gave him leave tochoose his own death. St. James, seeing it would beno otherwise, desired >o be bound to a pine-tree, and,after an hour’s respite to make his peace with Heav¬en, to be shot to death by a true virgin.But, when the same came to be put in execution, notone maid could be found that would undertake it:,whereupon the King commanded that lots should becast, which fell upon his own daughter, the beauteousCelestine, whose heart was already fired with the loveof the herCic Champion; and, therefore, on her bareknees, earnestly begged his life of her father, whichwith much ado, he granted, but for ever banished himthe land, and departing a little space, out of the lovehe.bore to Celestine, who had preserved his life, heventured again, discolouring his face and hands, andOF CHRISTENDOM. 9remaining dumb that he might not be known; at lastgot an opportunity to discover himself, .md obtainmgher consent to go along with him in the dead time ofthe night, mounted her on his steed (which he shoedbackward to-prevent pursuit) and after many dangersnarrowly escaped, at last they happily arrived inSpain.CHAP. V.The Adventures of St. Anthony, St. Andrew, and St.Patrick, theChanpionsofItaly,Scotia ndandIrelandKnoble Champion, St. Anthony of Italy, hav"* ing (after leaving the other six Champions) tra¬velled o/er many hills and dales, woods and forests*came at last into the country of Thrace, where, uponthe top of an high mountain, stood an impregnablecastle, wherein lived a terrible giant, named Bionde-ron, that had over the principal gate of his castlethese verses written;.What Champion to this Castle doth repair,Here lives a diant bold within this place,Who pns’ners keeps seven virgins chaste and fair,Daughters to the noble King of Thrace.All these who with this Giant tierce will fight,Shall have a Virgin’s pray’rs day and night.Thirst of glory and honourable reno -vn. so fired thebreast of the noble Champion that he thundered at thegate with the pumm 1 of his sword as loud as the Cy¬clops when they form' d die armour of Achilles. Thegiant being roused at this terrible noise came runningout of the gate with a great oak tree flourishing abouthis head, intending, with one blow, to crush in piecesthe bones of St Anthony, for disturbing him of iaisrepose; but the nimble knight so avoided his s-rokesby skipping continually out of his reach, that the gi¬ant in a short space, grew weary with brandishing sounweildy a wvapo . which wherr St. Anthonv per¬ceived, he lightly leaped to him, and with one bio-'."10 SEVEN CH AMPIONSbrought the ghnt upon his kneer which being se¬conded with another of tnightv force, bereaved-thegiant of hts life, sending his soul into the d-rk re¬gions, there to inhabit . ith grim Pluto; then, thank¬ing God for his victory, he entered the castle, wherehe was kindly entertained by Rosalinda, one of theThracian King’s daughters: she shewed him all therarities of the castle and amongst the rest, six silverswans swimming on a great pond of water, whichwere the other six daughters of the King of Thrace,whose chastities the lustful giant attempting to vio¬late, '.e kinder destinies (in commisseration. trans¬formed them into milk-white swans to signify theirchastities were without spot and blemish.After some short repose to refresh himself, St. An¬thony with Rosalinda posted to the Thracian court,where they were kindly entertained; but the Kinghearing of his daughters’ transformation, with greatgrief departed to the castle resolving there to spendhis days with invocating his coumry gods, to restorehis daughters to their shapes: whereupon St. An¬thony, nor willing to spend his davs in ease and lux¬ury, resolved privately to depart from thence, whichbeing made known to Rosalind', she also ^ecretlydepicted with him - ' ' .In the mean time, the famous Champion, St. An¬drew of Scotland, having^passed through many dan¬gers in a vale of walking spirits, came wandering alsoinfo this country of Thrace, fortune guiding his stepsto the same castle wherein the Thracian King wasworshipping his heathen gods, which he perceiving,and knowing the cause of his great idolatry, St. An¬drew, like a true Christian Champion, taught himthe worship or the living God:-when they had right¬ly performed, on a sudden the milk-white swanswere changed into the shape of beautiful ladies, tothe great joy of all present: For St. Andrew, havingknowledge it was St. Anthony that had slain theOF CHRISTENDOM- Ujjre'at Blunderon, and how he was departed with thelady Rosalinda, he secredv stole away from the Thra¬cian Ring, to seek St. Anthony, whom he greatlylonged to see; and the King’s daughters, understand¬ing he was gone, travelled after him, whose suddendeparture caused great sorrow throughout all Thrace.The six ladies, having travelled many a weary mile,in a fruitless search after St. Andrew, came at last toan uninhabited wilderness, save only with beasts andsavage monsters, wherethevwere surprised with thirtybloody satyrs, thf$t hauled them by the hair of theirheads, regardless of their shouts and loud soupdingoutcries, intending to have ravished them of their vir¬gin honours, but Heaven (that always favours the vir¬tuous) had so'ordered it, that St. Patrick, that mag.nanimous Irish Champion, af;er many heroic actionsby him performed, was, at the same instant, also inthe d-sart place, who, beholding the inhumanity ofthose savage creatures, courageously set upon them,and put them to flight, delivering thereby tiiose mostexcellent princesses from death,or what they account¬ed worse than death, the spoiling of their virginities,who, -after some pause of time, being a little come tothemselves, related to St Patrick the occasion of their-journey, with an account of the atchievements bothof St. Anthony and St. Andrew, as you heard beforein the beginning of this chapter; St. Patrick comfort¬ed them the best he could; like a noble knight un¬dertook to. be their conductor in their undertakings,having himself a mind to behold those magnanimousKnights who formerly had been his companions in thec£ve ofKalby; in which journeys we will for a whileleave them till we relate the actions of the seventhand last Champion, St. David of Wales.J2SEVEN CHAMPIONSCHAP. VI.How St. Davidythc Champioti of [Vale's, by art of ma¬gic, slept seven years in the enchanted ■ order ofOrmondine the Necromancet; and how St Get ageescaped out of prison in Persia, and redeemed theCnampion oj [Vales from his enchantment.\flL7 E come next to speak of that magra imous^He-* ' ro, St O h id of Wales, whose valiant exploitsam heroic peiformunres were nothing inferior ro there r f the six Champioi s, making the name of Chris-tendom famous in those nations, that acknowledge thetrue viod: especially his actions in thesTartarian court,are not to be p ssed over in silence, where his prowessgained him the hdnour to become the Emperor’sChampion. But, upon a solemn feast day, where¬upon were kept royal tilts and tournaments in honourof the Emperor’s- birth, it was St. David’s unlucky-fortune to kill the count Palatine, being heir appa¬rent to the Tartarian crown at which the Emperorwas so incensed that he would have slain him pre¬sently, but that in honour he could not do it: Where¬upon he bethought himself of a clear conveyance,which was to the enchanted garden upon the confinesof that country, kept by a famous necromancer, nam¬ed Ormond ne, binding him by the oath of knight¬hood, to bring him from thence the necromancer’shead: all which St- Davin promised faithfully to per¬form, and, with an undaunted courage, went to theplace, where at 'he entrance in was a rock of stone,in which was enclosed a most rich sword, nothingappeared ourwarOly but the hilt; about the pummelthereof, in letters of gold;,was thus engraved:This sword cannot be pulled forth,But by a Knight out of the North.St,David verily imagining himself to be th-tt knightof the north, courageously assayed to pull it forth;but no sooner was his hand on the hilt, but his sensesOF CHRISTENDOM. 13were oppressed with somniferous sleep, that it wasimpossible for him to awake till the enchantment wasfinished, which aftenv rds was performed by bt.George whose exploits we now come ro relate.Seven times had the world’s bright eye run bis an¬nual course through the twelve signs of the Z< diac,since St. George was confined in that nasty P • ianprison, by the treachery of the King of Morrncco,when by chance stumbling upon a bar of iron, hemade such use of it. that with continual 1 tbour hedigged himself a passage through the ground; till,in the dead time of the night, he ascended just inthe middle of the Sultan’s court: time and place thusfavouring his designs, he ceased not to lend his as¬sisting arms, to work out the rest; for, hearing somegroom in the Sultan’s stable, preparing their horsesto go on hun ing the next day, he took the bar ofiron and killed them all: which being done, he tookthe strongest gelding, and richest caparisons where¬with he bravely furnished himself; then, with chalk,upon a black marble pillar, he thus wrote:Sultan, farewell, for George is fied,Thy steed is lost, thy grooms are dead.So setting forward towards the gate, he thus sa¬lutes the porter: 1 Porter, open the gates with speed,for George of England is escaped out of prison, andhath murdered all the Sultan’s grooms, which hasalarmed the whole court.” The porter, ignorant ofwhat had happened opened the gate for St George,who,witha nimble pace,never rested till became with¬in the confines of Greece, beyond the reach of thePer-sian horsemen, who in vain pursued after. Put nowhunger again oppressed him as sharp as imprisonmentdid before, so that several days his horse and he faredalike, being forced to eat the grass of the field and tpdrink the water of the running streams: at last heespied a castle not far off, whether he directed hisn SEVEN CHAMPIONSweary steps, desiring of a lady who stood looking overthe walls, a meal of meat to relieve a knight almostfamished; but she, with a cursed frown, bid him be¬gone,or dse his life must pay for his presumption„fierlord be ng a misjhty giant, that, with crushed bones,did recompense the sauciness of such intruders. New,saith St. George, bv the honour of my knighthood,here will I obtain my dinner, or else become food forcrows by his accursed hand.. The lady,abash’d at thesewords,gave information to the giant,whoimmediatelycame forth, of such a monstrous and deformed pro¬per in, that he would have daunted a courageousknight; tho’ strong and lustful for an encounter; yetGeorge (tho’ much enfeebled by hunger) with a mag¬nanimous resolution set upon him, and notwithstand¬ing the giant was armed with a mighty bar of iron,the Christian Champion dealt him such blows, that, infine, the giant was fpreed to surrender his life, and thecommand of the castle into the hands of St. George.St George, having now finished his work, went intothe castle, to receive his wages, viz his dinner whichhe had earned, but for fear the lady should minglepoison in his food, he made her first to.taste of everydish, and, having staid some time to refresh himselfand his horse he lefi the castle in keeping of the lady,and went on in pursuit of his travels, passing throughthe rest of Greece and Phrygia, until he came into, heconfines of fan-ary, to the enchanted garden of Or-mondine, where heespied a sword enclosed into t Iv en -chanted rock, when he no sooner put hi* nd into: hehilt, than he drew it out with much e >se; hen imme¬diately the heavens we-'e overcast with a thick dark¬ness, and the earth shook and tumbled like mightypeals of thunder, the wind-s blew so irrnet musly thatstrong oaks were rent in pieces by the me, and. thenthe enchanted garden vant bed away, & the championoP'vVaies awaked out of his sleep, where he had lainfor seven years. The necromancer after he had brieflyOF CHRISTENDOM. 15declared his forepast life to St. George, gave a mostterrible groan and died; whose head, with the en¬chanted sword, rhe English Champion gave to St.David, to carry to the Tartarian court according tohis promise, whiht he himself travelled towards Bar¬bary, where our muse will now attend him.CHAP. VII. ,I Ioio St. George arrived at Tripoli in Barbary. fromwhence he Stole away Sabrine the King of Egypt'sDaughter from die Black-a-moor Kt -tg. and how ih-" wasknown to be a pure Virgin, by the means of Two Lions.rriHE noble St George having, after many wearysteps, got to the kingdom of Barbarv. he thoughtit vain to attempt upon ^lmid.;r by force of arms, see¬ing he was attended by so many worthy knights, mdyet desiring above all things, to have a sight of his be-love.i Sabrine. for whose sake he had endured s > iongimprisonm-ne, therefore he resolved To patch out thelion’s skin with the fox’s tail, and gain by policy whathe could not gain by force: to this end he exchangedhis horse, armour, and furniture with a palmer for hisgown, staff, and scrip, and so accoutred went directlyto the court, where he beheld a number of palmers,waiting in the gate for alms, which the queen herselfin person daily bestowed, in remembrance of the Eng¬lish champion; ip distributing of which, when she es¬pied this strange palmer, remembering how he resem¬bled the princely countenance of St, George, she tookhim by the hand and led him aside fro ri all the com¬pany, where he soon made himself known to her, whowept for joy of finding him whom she never expectedto see again; and after some short discourseof herhealthand welfare, she related to him how her father hadforced her to marry Almidor against her will, but tho’outwardly she was linked to him, yet none but St.George enjoyed her heart, for whose love she had hi¬therto continued a pure virgin, by virtue of a golden?6 SEVEN CHAMPIONSchain steened in tyger’s blood, which she wore seventimes doubled about her neck. Txien delivered she tohim his horse and sword with which he had formerlyencountered the burning dragon. And now, myGeorge, quoth she nothing remains but to fre^ mefrom the power of my forced husband, which oppor¬tunity invites us unto; he having with the wholecourt rode out a-huntitig. St Georg^ willingly con¬descended to her motion, sealing the same with assweet a kiss as ever Leander bestowed on Hero: andhaving gotten the gaod will of an eunuch go alongwith them, storing themselves with provisions, bbinggallantly mounted, they posted away with all thespeed they could make, passing through divers woods,desarts, and unknown places, to escape the pursuit ofthosewhomtheblackmoor king would send alter themHaving travelled thus for some few days together, atlast the beautiful Sabrine began to faint with hunger,,which made St George to leave her under the shadeof a broad spreading oak, accompanied with the eu¬nuch, while he went out in pursuit of some prey, tosatisfy their craving appetite; so it was his fortune tokill a deer, which, having cut out with his keen edgedsword, he brought a haunch thereof along with him,to present to his beloved lady: but a sad accidenthappened in his absence, for two hungry lions ragingabou* for prey, came directly to the oaken tree, wherethese two weary travellers were reposing themselves,who, with angry mood, seized upon the eunuch, andscon buried him in tbeir hungry entrails, then theytore his ste< d in pieces, Sabrine, all the while behold¬ing it, expected herself to be the next morsel to allaytheir hunger; bur quite foreign to her expectation,with fawning gestures they came unto her, and laidtheir beaus in her tender hp, and rhere quietly tellfast asleep,' at which time St. George • eturned, who,standing awhile in an ize what to do, at last threwdownhis venison, and with his trusty sword Ascalon,OF CHRISTENDOM. 17soon dispatche'I both the lions Now, Snbrine, saithhe, I have sufficient proof of thy true virginity, thenature of these beasts being such, that they will bowtheir heads to none but such as have kept their chas¬tities inviolable.^ Th refore, divine Paragon, nature’swonder and love’s abstract, doubt not but thy fameshall resound for love and chastity, so far as Phoebusdarts his golden rays-Then dressed he the venison for her which he hadbrought,and havingrefreshed themselves, they set for¬ward on their wonted travels, till they came into thecountry of Greece, where they soon had news of greattilts and tournaments suddenly to be held at the Em¬peror's court, in honour of the royal nuptials with theEmperor of China’s daughter, the fame whereof hadsummoned hither all the most approved and magnan¬imous heroes, both in Europe, Asia, and Africa, totrv their manhood, and by noble exercises of arms, tomount up into honour’s throne; among the rest theseven Champions of Christendom arrived there un¬known to each other, of whose valiant acts, to theircountry’s honour, we are now come to declare.* CHAP VIII.TIoii' the seven Champions performed valiant Exploits inthe Grecian Court-, inhere, having intelligence of thegreat Preparations that mere made by the Pagans, ev¬ery Champion returned into his own Country, JorPorces to wilhsland them,Tlsfini e was the number of the kmghts assembled inthe Grecian Court, to adventure their chance infortune’s lottery for the purchasing of renown; butthe seven Champions attained to such favour wi;h theGrecian Emperor, that he appointed them to be hisown peculiar Champions against ill comers, each hisseveral day,seven daystogether,'he appointed time forholding the justs To relate all their several ad ven¬tures,howthey foiled each one that came against them.18 SEVEN CHAMPIONSwould take too muck- time for our intended brevity,let k ruffice to know, that their prowess was so highlyadmired by the Emperor, as (in reward of their valour)hebestoweduponthem a golden tree with seven branch¬es, in the dividing whereof they came to be known un¬to each other, which so rejoiced their hearts, that theyaccounted that day as fortunate to them as when firstthey were delivered from the thraldom of the enchant¬ress Kalby. But they had not long enjoyed the frukionof eachother’scompany, when there arrived at the Em¬peror’s court, a hundred heralds from a hundred seve¬ral countries, which, by the command of their princes,•proclaimed war againstall Christendom, in these words:“We, the most puissant Monarchs of Asia and Afri-caj by a general consent of us all. proclaim open war,fire, and sword, with utter destruction to all the coun¬tries and kingdoms of Christendom, in a just revengeagainst them for the injuries sustained by their sevenChampions, desiring all the followers of Mahomet,Termagant, and Apollo, in this our determination,to join with us and take our parts.”The Grecian Emperor being also a Pagan, associatedwith them, giving commandment to muster up thegreatest forces his land could afford. Allwhich, whenthe championsunderstood,topreventthelr bloody pur¬poses,after due consideration had amongstthemselves,each one with bis betrothed lady departed home to hisown country, there to raise forces to withstand thecommon enemy: St. George into England, St. Dennisinto France, St. James into Spain, St. Anthony intoItaly, St. Andrew into Scotland, St. Patrick into Ire¬land, and St. David into Wales: the prospect of whosedelightful habitations they had not beheld in manyyears before; where they were most royally entertain¬ed according to th Ar own heart’s desire, each severalPrince in Iris common cause, contributing the utmostassistance he could make, appointing the bay of Por¬tugal for their great rendezvous; and all with one gen-OF CHRISTENDOM. 19era! consent, nominating St. George to be their gen¬era!, whose valiant exploits and honourable perform¬ances shall be discoursed of in the following chapter.C H A P IX.//oro the seven Champions of Christendom arrived, withall their Troops in the Bap of Portugal, where St.George made an Oration to his Soldiers. The disscntionin the Pagan army, with other things that happened.A T the appointed time, the Christian Champions,■*' with each one a well approved army, met in thebay. of Portugal, the number of which joined together,were about five hundred thousand; unto whom St.George, their appointed general, made this follow¬ing oration:“ Fellow soldiers and kind countrymen, whose va¬lour the world admires and dreads, we are now goinginto the field of honour, and to the work of manhood:the time is now at hand we have long looked andprayed for, and your work the noblest in the world:pour forth, therefore, your utmost forces, that agesto come may know what the lance, the ax, the sword,and the bow, can do in the hand of the valiant: fearnot the numerou! force of our enemies, whose num¬ber is rather a burden than an advantage unto them:but know, yqur cause is the best, the defence of theChristian religion, and your native countries, whichwill oppose all their vast numbers. Whosoever there¬fore de-ires riches, honours, and rewards, know thatthey are all to be gotten by the overthrow of thosemiscreants, who will fly before your valour, as flocksof sheep "before the greedy wolf.”i nis soldier-like oration put such courage into thebreasts of the soldiers, that, with a general voice, theycried out, ‘do arms, to arms, with the magnanimousChampion St. George of England,’ in which gallantresolution we will leave them for a while, to relatewhat happened in the army of the Pagans, who, like20 SEVEN CHATViPIONSgrashoppers ovel'spreading a country, met in the landofHungary< in such multitudes, that had notGod frus¬trated their intentions, theChristian army had been buta morsel, scarce sufficient for them for one meal; byhis invincible power he confounded them in their own ,practises; for being about to elect a general, each na¬tion was obstinate to have their king the person, thatshould command in chief; and so eager were they inthese resoluti ns, that from words they fell to blows,which ended at last in a most dreadful light againsteach other, till the ground was changed trom a ver¬dant green to a purple hue, and each place strewedwith the carcases of dead bodies. Here you might seea head new lopt offfrom the shoulders, with a gaspingmouth, complaining as it were for his separation fromthe rest of its body: there lay an arm with a handgrasping a sword, as if it would fight yet in its body’sdefence. In another phee you might behold one whowould, run away from danger, but that his legs are soentangled in his fellows guts he could not stir; here laythe brains of one, there another with his mouth andjaws cut away, so that he could not complain of hisown misfortunes. In fine, such horror and destructionwas amongst them, as would make the heart of an en¬emy to relent. Those that remained, after this bloodyencounter, withdrew themselves into their own coun¬tries, cursing the time that ever they undertook so un¬lucky an enterprize, and confessing it vain for themto attempt any thing against the Christians' God.It was not long ere the news of this bloody en¬counter came to the ears of St- George, and the restof the Christian Champions; who, having received theintelligence, soon raised their armies and marched di¬rectly to Barbary, against the bloody king of Morocco,to chastise his treachery committed against the mostrenowned English Champion.21OF CHRISTENDOM.C H A P X.The terrible Battle between the Christians andrMoors inBarhary, the great overthrow of the Pagans, and how _Almidor the black King of Morocco was boiled to deathin a brazen Caldron of Lead and Brimstone.ri ''HE Chrhtian army under the conduct of the mag-r*- ranimous English Champion, St. George, beingarrived in Barbiry, and, with their victorious arms,turning all info ruin w heresoever they came, the noisethereof mar'e Almidor’s guilty conscience quake, andthereupon he raised a mighty host to withstand them,.who with great courage fell upon the Christians, sothat between them ensued a most terrible battle, eachside striving to outdo the other in victorious exploits; ‘to purchase renown; the Moors in defence of theircountry, their wives & children. Three days togetherdid this bloody conflict hold, the night scarce givingthem time to breath in, but before the sun began hisdiurnal race, they returned their strength to a n oreeager encounter; horror, bloodshed, and amazementwas on their side, and death rode triumphant thro’thewhole host; but the valiant St George (whose couragewas never wanting at all essays) being minded to putan end to the fight, singled out the Morocco king, be¬twixt whom and the Englsh Champion was a long anddangerous encountei; but Almidor, net able to with¬stand the mighty puissance of St. George, was forcedto yield himself to his mercy, and became his prisoner,which theMoorssceing,presently would have fled loth echief city, but the Christians intercepting them, madeamongst them such a slaughter, that not one of a hun¬dred escaped to tell thesad disaster of their misfortunesThe Christian am y ti er n arched directly to Tri¬poli. carrying alorgwith then: the wicked Aln idor,to when notwithstanding his ev 1 deserts) upon apremise of forsaking his 1 caller gods, and to itirn tobe a Christian), mercy was preflered, which refusing,22 SEVEN CHAMPIONSwith direful execrations against the Christian religion,he wa>. boiled to death in a brazen caldron filled withlead and brimstone-, at the sight of whose death, aswell Pagans as Christians, with a loud voice cried out,“ Long live St. George, the victorious Champion ofEngland, who, by his valiant prowess, hath freedBarbary from their miserable thraldom.”Hereupon the Morocco peers, with bended knees,came to St. George; proffering unto him the imperialcrown of Barbary, and promising to be christened inthe Christian faith; all which was presently perform¬ed, bj placing the crown upon his head, and abolish¬ing Mahometanism with all the superstitous rites ofthat false prophet; whereupon a great alteration sud¬denly ensued, Pagan temples were pulled down, and aChristian church erected: issstead of a tyrannical go¬vernment, good and wholesome laws were ordained:peace and plenty flourished every where, and a gene¬ral rejoicing was throughout the whole kingdom.But the heroicchampions, not minding to spend theirtime in the idle bower of peace, and to let their armourhang rusting on the wall, when so much action was tobe done in the world; they therefore summoned theirsoldiers to re-assume their courage, and to put them¬selves in an equipage for war. St. George leaving thegovernment of the land, in his absence, to four ot theprincipal peers of Morocco; the whole armymarcheddi-rectlytoEgypt against k.Ptolemy,who had confederat¬ed with Almidor for sending St. George into Persia. .CHAP. XL11 oiu the Christians arrived in Egypt, and uhat happenedto them there. The Tragedy of ike Earl of Coventry.Iloxv the Egyptian King broke his Neck, and hole St.George redeemed his Lady from being burnt to Deathat a Stake.THE seven Champions of Christendom, with theirvictorious army, being arrived in Egypt, theyOF CHRISTENDOM. 23supposed presently* ‘o have met armed troops to with¬stand them; but, contrary to their expectation, 'heyfind both cities, towns, and villages uninhabited: theterror of their coming striking such an amazement tothe inhabitants, that they hid themselves in the mostobscure places they could find: wherefore they march¬ed to King Ptolemy’s court, intending first to burnthat, and then afterwards the rest of the city into cin¬ders. But v hilst they were in these thoughts, and be--ing come near thereto, theywere met by Ptolemy, andhis chiefest Peers, all in mourning, bearing brokenweapons, shivered lances, and torn ancients, with ma¬ny thousands of women and children wearing cypressleaves about their heads, all with one voice crying formerey, and to spare their country from utter ruin,king Ptolemy the foremost of them all, addressinghimself to the Christian Champions, in these words:“ Most noble Knights and renowned Champions,whose names are enrolled in the book of fame, let mygrey hairs move you to pity, and my bended knees thatnever bowed to any till now, cause compassion in vou:but if no mercy be reserved for me, let me plead forpity for my poor commons, who are altogether igno¬rant of the injuries offered to the English champion,occasioned by the treachery of that wicked Almidorworking upon my easy nature: O let me fall a sacrificefor their safety, and stain not your hands in their guilt¬less blood, but spare them & us, and we shall not onlybecomeyour servants, butforsakethe belief of our falseprophets,andhenceforthbelieve in theChristiansGod.This sorrowful lamentation and request of king Pto¬lemy, made the heart of the English Champion to re¬lent, so that he not only granted mercy to the wholeland,-but also life to king Ptolemy upon the conditionsbefore premised; which gracious grant was so welcomeboth to king and commons, that all on a sudden thepeople returned from their lurkjpg places to thei: fior-n-er habitations. Bonefires ware^made in every place.24 SEVEN CHAMPIONS, &c.the belis rang'day and night, aaCjSO much bnnquet-*-ing, dancing, and masquing was u ed, asexceeded thatwhich the Trojans made, when Paris returned fromGreece, with the conquest of the Spartan QueenBut this sun-shine weather.was soon overshadowedwith a cloud of sorrow; for, in the interim of all theirjoy, there arrived at the court an English knight, whothus delivered himself to Si. George:“ Renowned Champion df England, if ever you ex¬pect to see your beloved lady again, make all the hasteyou can unto her, who is adjudged to be burned todeath at a stake, for murdering the Earl of Coventry;who, by gifts, entreaties, and allurements, sought tobetray her of her honour, and by lustful acts to stainher name with infamy, which your virtuous lady al¬ways withstood: but at last, he finding her alone, andrenei' ing his suit, with threatning of force upon herdenial, she, with kind words, lulled him asleep, andthen sheathed his own poinard in his breast, which ona sudden bereaved him of life; for which fact she iscondemned to die the death aforesaid: yet this favouris granted her, that if in two years space, a championis found, that for her sake will venture his life; ifhe overcome the challenger, her life shall be saved, butif not, then she must die.”These words struck a wonderful astonishment andsorrow to all that heard them, especially to king Pto¬lemy, who, in a desperate mood, cast himself from thetop of a high pinnacle, and broke his neck Where¬upon St. George was immediately proclaimed, andsoon after crowned king of Egypt; and then, leavingthe Christi n Champions, he went into England,where he combated with the Baron of Chester, whowas champion against the Lady Sabiine, whom heovercame in battle, to the great joy of the Englishknight and his beloved Sabrine, with whom he after¬wards spent his life ip much joy and felicity.