cheaptracts.Calculated to promote the Interests of Reli¬gion, Virtue, and Humanity.No. I.THEMAGDALEN:OR, THEHISTORYOF AReform’d Prostitute.IN TWO LETTERS,Written by Herself, publijhed by Dr. Dodd.Giving an Account of the means of Seduction, thefubfequent Conduct and Mifery of an. UNFORTUNATE FEMALE,and her Providential Deliverance, from a state of ,Sin and Shame.—>.-o—<—To which is addedfTHEForsaken Maid’s Lamentation,—■—« »——DUNBAR:Printed bv t V, r ■' r - .v - ■ ' • • « •WHOi.L.'rALi. ANDTHEMAGDALEN, Ac. Tour bounty is beyond my /peaking ;But tbo’ my mouth be dumb, my heart Jhall thank you.And 'when it melts before the throne of mercy.My fervent foul /hall breathe forth prayers for you ;■That heav'n •will pay you back, "when mojl you need ;The grace and goodnefs you have Jhoven to me,Rowe.SIR,^jPHOUGH I can scarcely hope that myI mean & unadorned effay can be wor¬thy a place in your* paper, yet I am promp¬ted fo ftrongly by gratitude, that 1 moftmake the attempt; and (hould efteem itparticularly kind, if you would enable me toipread as extenfively as I can my prefentfelicity, and the bleffed fource of it.Without further preface, Sir, I muft informyou that I am one of thole, who owe life,Salvation, happinefs; every comfort and everyhope, to that happy place the Magoalen-Huuse. Believe me in what I deliver; for Ie!o assure you in the moft iolemn manner,lhat it is the ftricteft truth. I was amongft» C 3 }the firfl who fought that hofpitable dwel-ling; and alas, it makes my very blood runchill, to reflect upon my fituation, when ad¬mitted into that house ! Good God, wasthere ever fuch an object of pity and diflrefslAbandoned by every friend I had; abhoringmy dire bufmefs, but obliged to continueit for bread, almoft naked ; broken hearted ;j-without a roof to receive me ; without an eyeto pity me ; without any kind chnflian tolook on and refeue me. People, Sir, think,that no hard ufage is bad enough for us m'that ftate : but indeed, if they knew all, theywould not think lo. For as bad a creaturejfas I might feem, I would have given the’world to have been employed in any honeft[means of livelihood : though there was a[cine when I fhould have thought fervile[employ much beneath me. But, alas, timesiwere forely changed, and my affliction wasigreater than could be fancied. If you in-:fdulge me by printing this, perhaps, whenI can get a little time L may fend you fomerhort account of my misfortunes, to (hew[.hat we are not aZ/lwch objects of every bo¬dy’s word; contempt and infults. But I begpardon for running from my fubject; wo¬men’s pens, Sir, are not ufed to order.In my calamitous diftrefs I applied to the'Magdalen Houfe ; and 1 was received withill that humanity which diftinguifhes theworthy managers of it. 1 fancied and fore¬boded every good to snyfelf, when, on the( 4 )day of admiflion, I perceived many of the #|gentlemen wipe their eyes while I was rela¬ting fome of my early miseries! For alas. Sir,though I am old in grief, I have yet feenbut nineteen years L It is impoffible for meto describe, as I ought, the comforts I foundin thathoufe. I was neatly cloathed, fatisfac-toriiy employed, and had fuch provjfions as |the very beft would be contented with.But thefe were fmall to the comforts abound¬ing to my mind : the divine inftrwctions Iliave heard in that chapel, which Irrnft al¬ways think a little heaven, (the door toheaven, I am fure it has been to me ;) thofcinflructions w'ill never he erafed from mymind ! They have calm’d my troubled fouland convinced me that my repentance willnot be in vain ; that my refolutions of vir¬tue, through grace, will not be ineffectual.Refolutions! Oh, Sir^ can it be poffiblethatany of us who have fo much experiencedCiXIU JiUJUiCllJVJ.ll L11V JJUUlCj WWU1IU VAVVVSU IkX Jprefent limits. Nothing, furely, can be cal¬culated better for the relief, the comfort,the information, of poor unhappy girls :and the gentlemen act like fathers indeed.Satisfied with my behaviour, our worthyand never enough to be applauded treajur-er, was fo kind fome few weeks fince as toinform me, that if I chose to accept it, a( 5 )place offered tolerably advantageous, and hewould recommend me. I defired his, andour incomparable matron’s advice ; and inconfequence of that, have accepted it. Iwas fitted out with all things proper anddecent, much beyond my wifh or expec¬tation ; and am happily fituated with a wor¬thy lady, whole amiable behaviour makesnae perfectly bleft ;■ and be fatisfied, mywhole ftudy (hall b'e to pleafc her j and to-fhew myfelf fenfible of thofe divine mer¬cies which I have experienced, in the deliver¬ance of both body and foul from death.Now, Sir, all I with is, that this may beknown for the fatisfaction of those concer¬ned in this noble charity : whofe humanebreads it muff fill with pleafure, to thinkthey have redeemed a poor girl from thedepth of mifery : a girl not yet twenty : wholives happy and peaceful through theirbounty; lives to pray for and to bless then},every day May the Lord of heaven crownthem with all their hearts wiihes : and in-creafe the'numberoff£i5y<?daily,wkoarc friendsto this glorious defiga. To the advantagesot which, not myfelf only, but numbersalready are witneffes. Pol/y * * * is a com¬fortable inflange. This charity has favedher poor mother’s life : with whom fhe nowlives : and 1 would fain have perfuaded herto write to you. I believe 1 fhould have de¬ferred it myfelf, fomething longer, if it had( 6 )hot been for an accident, which happened,laft night ; and which determined me in.ray purpofe : as 1 was led to hope, that,perhaps this notice in your paper, may beTeen by fome unfortunate girls, who maybe curious to read & letter from one, un¬happy enough to have been of their number :though, thank God, fey miracle almoft,refcued and laved. And great need there is' for thanks. For as I was about t© tell you,-Jcrht. as 1 was iroinff rmt. /»nrbir ; lait 0 0   —fquare on an errand for my miftrefs, a poorcreature, in a fad hollow tone, begged me, Ifor Cbrift’s fake, to give her a bit ol bread. |I turned to look at her, and Ihe was almoft jnaked, with a tattered blanket thrown overher, and an old handkerchief tied abouther head ; Ihe alked very pressingly, for a |piece of bread, only a emit, aay thing to :relieve her hunger. I thought, I knew some¬thing of the voice : and taking her to thenext lamp—Bleffed father, can 1 ever enov;ghexprefs my horror and furprize ! I was readyto drop down ! For it was Nancy* * * !who came into the Magdalen fometime afterme : but her fad temper would not permither to flay there : fo that the gentlemen,after having long waited her better behavi- 1!cur in vain, (for nothing can be imagined jmore tender and careful than they are, |jmore How to punifh, more ddirous to con- J|tinue us) were forced to difmifs her ! and l';( 7 ){!flic, having no friend to receive her, wasobliged to return to her old way of life;and now difeafed and eaft off, was at thepoint of ftarving, when thus accidentallyfhe applied to me in . the ftreet 1 The mo¬ment (he knew me, Qie burft into the moftlamentable cries and tears, I ever heard orTaw ! ‘ Oh ! happy girl, faid Hie, would to‘ God, I had been like you. Now, i am* ruined and loft for ever. I have no cloarhes* to cover me : ao fo«»d »—iny ilLlil1"* gcr, and I - am almoft perifliing with it;* difeafe is preying upon me in-a terrible,* manner: I have no where to hide my‘ head: I am caft out by every bacly ; and* in a few days muft perifh; and what willbecerr^c of my isui, i u«tC nv» cv«.u‘ think/You may imagine. Sir, what a fitnationmine was, while 1 heard herfpeaking thus ;I gave her what pref&nt relief 1 could : andprovided for her laft night. I have madeher difmal cafe known to my humane andcharitable mill refs ; and flie will affift thispoor creature. And now. Sir, if I fhould, befo happy, after all, as to be made an inftru-ment of faving my fellow-ftifferer, 1 lhallbids God, indeed ; and think that fuc.h amercy granted me, is a. proof, he has gra-cioufly and fully pardoned me. I wifh allthe poor unfortunate girls in the city, andevery where, could have feen poerNancy *** : for none, 1 am furc, wouldc s )then be bad upon principle, or day a mi¬nute from the bfefied Magdalen, to perifliin the ftreets, like a bead, negiedted by all,in cold, in nakednefs, m hunger, in didem-per,—unhoufed, unfriended, unpitied, un¬relieved-—What didrefs can be equal ! Ihope, Sir, you will corredt ail my midakes :and, as it is proper to conceal real names,I diall beg leave to fubfcribe myfelf, now,and whenever again you will fuffer me toA Grateful Magdalenletter second.The Real History of a MA.GDALEN.}Mani the laulefs libertine may roveFree and unquejlion d, thro the wilds of love iWhile woman^ fenfe and nature's eajy fool.If poor weak woman fwerve from virtue's rule.Ruin enfues, reproach and endlefs Jhame ;And one falfe ftp entirly damns her fame.In vain with tears the lofs fhe may deplore ;In vain look back to what fhe was before;Shefets, likefiars that fall, to rife no more.Rows.SIR,I AM much obliged to you for giving mypoor performance a place in your paper;and upon that encouragement, I take theliberty once more to trouble you. I havea plain and artlefs tale to deliver ; and I de¬liver it only to (hew, that pity and reliefmay not improperly be extended to un¬happy objects like myfelf. Parents too,perhaps, may learn fome inftru&ion from myItory.I am the daughter of a tradefman in this' city : my father, though engaged in a repu¬table and advantageous bufinels, had yet noright to the privileges of a gentleman ; buttiy mother desir iu? to a.fTume thofeprivileges, from her morriage determinedvo live and adt as a oentlev/oman. Withthis view {lie alwavs followed the faihion :her drefs was ever in the mode; and herdining room was fnrnifhed in tafte; thechimney piece had no imall fliare ofBow-china ware ; the curtains were madeafter the mod elegant manner; and thewhole floor was covered with Wilton carpet.^You may be fatisfied from this difpofitionof my mother’s, that fhe was careful, what- -ever else fhe might forget, to inflrudt herchildren in politenefs. indeed, Sir, everfrom the time that I can remember ought,•I remember nothing fo diligently inculcatedupon me as leflbns of my own importance,gentility and beauty, and the neceflicy offettling off my perfon to the bed advantage.Imagine not, that I mean to didionour mymother by repeating thefe things, whichmay appear trifling, but were in reality theinlets to my ruin : I reverence the me- |'mory of my parent; but by mentioning |her midakes, perhaps I may happily warnothers.At the age of fifteen I lod my mother,who left my father a widower, with myfelf, afider, and two brothers ; and, as I was theelded, and mv father was very fond of me,the chief conduct of domedic affairs fell uponme. But Oh! Sir, how ill capacitated was 1for this, who had been initiated into all(11)the faQiionabie diverfions and amufemenrs'for which I had contracted an infuperable-fondnels ; as they led me to display thefepersonal graces, which alone 1 was taught tocultivate; and which, alas ! 1 valued but coohighly. My mother’s death tended to ad¬vance me more early into a ftare ofwomanifh behaviour; and my fathergratified too blindly my wild inclinations.As 1 had heard only general and randomlefTons of virtue, and very few or occaiionalinftrudions in religion, it is not to be fup-pofed, that mere female honour could giveme great ftrength to withftand temptations.But indeed, 1 thought little of temptations :as 1 fcarcelyknew what was vice, fo it gainedlittle of my refledlion : my chief with wasto be admired ; and my grand aim and pur-fuit, to get a very fine and wealthy huf-band. Chariots, country houfes, routs, drefs,and gaiety occupied my waking and fleep-ing thoughts.Thus a year and more ran on : duringwhich time 1 wanted not admirers ; for irnufl be allowed to fay, my perion waspleasing and attractive. Amongft-thefe thefon of an opulent merchant in our neigh¬bourhood attended me moft affiduously;and his endearing behaviour foon won my-unfufpedting heart. My father encouragedhis vifits ; which yet he himfelf defiredmight be as fecret as pofTible : 4 For his fa¬ther, he informed us, would fee greatly of-I 12 )fended, if acquainted with his attachmentsto me, the only thing, he daily protefted,which prevented his marrying me.’ 1heard his oaths, 1 liftened and believed. Buthow diitant was 1 from fufpedling any dif-honourablc intentions, fince, in all the fer¬vour of paflion, he would curfe his fate, andthe vile folly of mankind in fufferingpriejls to obftruft their blefs by a fooliihceremony, devifed folely for their protit;fince, in the fight of God, (if there was aGod who took notice of fuch things) anunion of hearts, and mutual oaths andvows, muft doubtlefs conftitute a marriage.Much of this l often heard ; and love blind¬ed my eyes to its intent.In the mean time a fudden fhock over¬whelmed our family in the deepeft diftrefs :my father became a bankrupt; and themtferies impending over his children foaffeded him, that he turned perfectly me¬lancholy. This accident was Mr. * *’s tri¬umph : his friendfiiip and tendernefs for meon this occafion was fuch, that 1 fear itwould have prevailed over a heart betterfortified. Wonder not. Sir, that it prevail¬ed over me, whofe heart was meltingwith the foftefh love to him ! Crueldeceiver, he perfuaded me to leave that dif-trefsful feene, and to take psfleflion ol alodging, which he had provided, he toldme, till better times would allow him pub-1 ickly to acknowledge me as his wife. My:. * „•; father’s brother took the management, oflihis affairs, and the kind proteftion of my^brothers and fifler; while 1, only 1, was loirto them ; drowned in a ftate or insenfibili-.ty, though not without the tendereft regard[i to my dear relations ; whom 1 endeavouredto perfuade, that 1 was married to Mr. * *;j| but they v/ere too wife : they could not be: deceived ; and foretelling me my fate withfeverity enough, utterly caff me off.Poffeffed of Mr. * *’s affedtion, 1 felt, lj conceived no loss or hurt from any other’si negledl. And my heart can bear me witnefs,:i| that 1 never knew a thought, or indulged aI wifh from him. Seven months be continuedi all 1 could hope: and 1 began to believe that1 every thing, (though little enough) which 1;i had heard of formal virtue, was a name;Iand that outward ceremonies, and the like,tended only to the infelicity of* the marriedftate. But foon, too foon, was 1 awakenedfrom this golden dream. Mr. ** grewthoughtful in my company, began to makehis vifits lefs frequent and more fhort; ur-ging great bufinefs in the compting houfe,the preparation of fhips, and I know notwhat : it gave me pain, but I fufpedtednothing. One day, however, when I was atthe window waiting for him as ufual, withfond impatience, a meftenger came with aletter : but what words can exprels my an-guifh upon reading it ! It was to inform me" that his father had found out his connectionC 14 )with me, and had provided a match Forhint with a lady of very great fortune ; andfince it was impoffible for him to refufe, ashe mu ft thereby forfeit all his father’sregard, he hoped I would make myfelfeafy : efpecially, as he would take care ofthe child i fhould bring into the worlds(for I was then with child by him ) andwould procure me a good place after mydelivery ;' to fupport me till which time,he fent me a bill of thirty pounds.My torture and diftrefs were beyond alldescription, I will not therefore attempt it;a mifcarriage enfued, & a dangerous illnefs,in which l had good hope that 1 ihouldhave finifhed a burdenfome life : thoughthe dread 1 had offomething future deter-red me from any thing violent, to which mydiftrefles frequently prompted me. Fortho” 1 wrote and entreated but for one inter¬view, wouldyou believe that 1 entreated alwaysin vain ? This hard-hearted man, this moftunkiad and cruel fource of all my forrow,would fcarcely deign me. a reply ! My re¬lations were equally obdurate : 1 defiredbut to fee my fifler ; my aunt and undefent me only, in return to my requeft, fharpupbraidings and favage counfels ! Gjra-cieusheaven,what actuation was mine! Howearly did 1 begin to drink of the bitter cupofpenance for my unlawful pleafures & crimi¬nal indulgences ! 'My youth supported me under this heavyload; the heavieft part of which was my foli-( *5- )idc, and the want of fome female friend t*lonfole me, and to amu!e my gloomyinoughts. My mirfe, to whom 1 had fre-uently made my complaint, and from whomhad concealed no part of my afflictions, atj ay repeated requeft, was fo kind (1 .concci-ed it kind) to introduce to me a lady of the! eighbourhood, as fhe told me ; whoseirank and generous converfe soon engagedrny foolifh heart; and 1 thought myselfnappy in the friendlhip of Mrs. Marriot.Ivlrs. Marriot took me to her country house ;;everal ladies were recommended by her toimy acquaintance. Two or three gentlemenibaid us fhort visits; and after a day[:jir two’s flay there, we returned to towntogether; but, as it happened to be.late, fhe prefled me much to take a bed atjiaer houfe. 1 complied, and laid me down tojfleep under her care & cuftody, dreaming ofipothingill. When 1 was awakened in the nightijjby the admiffion of a perfon into my roomland bed; whom 1 found it in vain to reflft,las he informed me truly where 1 was, whatfjl muft expeCV, and how unreafonable andijunavailing any refradtory conduct wouldiprove. The terror of the feene deprived meiof my fenfes, and 1 have no recolledtion ofimyfelf, but as furrounded the followingJday by Mrs. Marriot, and leveral of her!houfe, using their endeavours to fupportmy life, of which they feemed almoft todefpair.'( 16 )it would be fuperfluons, Sir, to tell youthe horrid fituation 1 was now in, fince thisis an evil but too commonly known : 1 wasagain a ruined wretch; and beffdes this abeggared prifoner, deftined to every miferythat human nature is capable of. iVIy verysoul abhored my manner of living; but alas,I knew not, 1 could notapprehend any methodof redrefs! Some months 1 was compelledto the drudgery of this deteflable life ; andas ours was a much frequented houfe, minewas the more deplorable a fate : With somedifficulty 1 again found means to apply tomy uncle and my fifter, but they were asobdurate as the flint. Good God, thatneither wretchednefs, relationfhip, prayers,nor intreaties fhould avail! If thou waft aslevere as our fellow creatures, what muftbecome of finful mortals !But that I may not be tedious : at length,Sir, myfelf and the reft of our unhappy fif-terhood, were delivered from our prifon,and difperfed by the disgrace of our mif-trcfs, wh® for fome mifdemeaner fell intothe hands of juflice. But alas ! 1 was then asmuch to feek as ever. Sally***, with whom1 had contratfted a friendfhip, advifed meto go with her to fome public office, andthere to enquire for a place : but at thefeoffices we were again and again rejetfted,unable^ as we were, to refer any where fora charafter: and too plainly as our improperdrefs difcovercd our manner of life. We' ( T7 ):had no money : we had no fi rends : wewept together, but we could find no pofli-:bility of deliverance from a purfuit of our(former life, in order to obtain luftenance. 1am fure, and can fay it with the mod folemntruth, any employment would have been:blejTed, in comparifon of this. For let theJhumane only judge of a timorous younggirl entering the ftreets with a guilty mind,and a fhameful purpofe ; darkness and dif-jtrefs around her ; and under the dire necefli-ly cf fpbmittipg to the brutality vf lufl withany wretch who is inclined to ufe her. 1 waslihocked with horror. Exquifite and preffingihunger, 1 truly declare, alone compelledme..Sally and myfelf to«k a little apartment,land there breathed a miferable exiilencesSome weeks after which, as 1 was erodingthe Strand, a young man met me, and ufing(my name, 1 looked at him attentively : butijwhat was my furprize and my pleafure torfind it my elder brother, who was grownvtmuch fince 1 faw him, and was now nearpixteen years old 1 1 was ready to faint at theijlfight of him! For there had always been a(particular love between us. 1 perceived thetears gulh down the cheeks of the dearyouth, and you may eafdy conceive 1 couldnot refrain mine. He beckoned me to fol-|low, and when we came to a private avenuein the ftreet, he took my hand, aid, ‘Oh !my dearefl fifter, laid he, how happy am 1,’ that at lafl 1 have found you ! my uncle( i8 }‘ and my friends have continually reprefen4|4 ted you to me as l®lt, and 1 have been un*s able to learn more, than that you are be* ■* come a vile-8c abandoned woman of tha‘town !’ Oh brother, 1 replied, they haveindeed been cruel, though 1 am worthlefs ;but had they been more kind, they might:have faved me from my prefent diflrcfs.You muft have heard how often 1 have wrote tothem, & to you; why was it thatjyott wouldnever give me one word ofananfwer? ‘1* never —--i - i-—^ vk^h. r&rsu+j u ■ V Cvu d liiiC ^ v, wj 11^5‘ and whenever 1 enquired concerning you,‘ my uncle bad me be filent, and never afk‘ after the fcandal of the family, ulmg other‘ vile names, which I (hall not repeat. But,< for God’s take, tell me, are you that un-,« happy woman ? 1 tremble to think itd—You may be affured 1 could give no anf-wer. To hear this from a brother, and loyoung, and whom 1 tenderly loved, andwhofe fight renewed the remembrance of allmy pall offences, the remembrance of mydeareft friends, and fire wed me myfelfinthe utmoft degree of horror; to hear this,fhocked me beyond expreffion ; and histears and affedtionate anxiety added poig¬nancy to every reflection. ‘ Oh ! filter, (aid* he, this is too much to,be fupported : but‘ heaven has made me $appy, that 1 may be‘ the bleffed means, Y hope, of adminiftering‘ relief to you. If you have any proper place« to go to, let me attend you, and tell you- ( i9 )what 1 have to offer.5 We went to mylittle lodging immediately. And can 1, Oh l.ipn 1 ever enough exprefs my joy, whenthi(good young man, now dearer to me than'life, informed me of the Magdalen-Houfe :(whereof he told me his excellent mafter wasi governor, and to the chapel of which heIpad one Sunday introduced him.ji There needed normuch recommendation;Ior how could i be unwilling to abandon aife which was big with miferv and forrow ?But had 1 not been 10, ms uclci ipn.,...[this bleffed Houfe would have certainly ledfeme to it. 1 told him, 1 hoped he would re¬commend me to his mafler, not naming myrelation (hip to himfelf. But this hefaid wasrrimpotfible ; finCe nG favour was Pnewn in- admiuion. The melt proper obje&s, thetitruefl: penitent?, and the moft afllidled,(being always preferred by the governors.If fo, said 1, there is no doubt but 1 fballobtain their favourable regard. 1 thought thehours long, till Ihurfday arrived, the day ofadmiffion : upon which 1 repaired to theMagdalen > petitioned ; prevailed ; and wasblei't !Thus, Sir, 1 owe, under God, my prefent(‘bappinefs to my brother, which endears itIftill more; during my flay in the Houfe, 1 was(frequently bleft with his company, which is[always inftrudive ; and he has conftantlyfupplied me with fome religiwus treatife or1 other, which 1 read with a double pleafufeC 2° )as coming from him. 1 have hopes too of jregaining the regard of my other friends, Iand have already feen my fifter. My poor Vfather, to my exquifite forrovv, died foon |after my departure. This is at prefent the 1greateft burden to my mind.Such is my ftory ; which 1 have delivered in 1the plaineft manner. 1 want not to exculpate 1myfelf: That 1 am criminal, very criminal ; |that 1 have done amifs, very much amifs, l am Iready to acknowledge ; 1 do acknowledge in Ithe fight of God and man. But oh ! dear Sir, |let the moft rigidly virtuous confider a poor |uninftrufted young girl, without any prin- |ciples almofc but thofe of vanity ^ attacked by |every thing that can allure, youth, wealth, |perfonal graces, folemn vows, and the moftawful proteftations and promifes of marriagefrom a faithlefs heart; her own, fick withlove ; and let pardon at leaft be granted forone fault. For the reft, treachery, perfidy, |ciuelty, neceflity, will fpeak. My fufferingshave been very fevere .• and oh ! that 1 hadknown thofe didtates of virtue and religion,in which 1 have been inftruded at theMagdalen1 and which found a properlyhumbled mind to receive them! Oh thatin early youth 1 had known them ; that myparents had early taught me the ways ©fpiety ; for, 1 am perluaded, 1 fliould thennever have taken the firft falfe ftep. 1 fhouldthen have preferved my innocence, andhave efcaped thofe forrows, which, I am fa-C 2i )Fsfied, arc the never.faiting attendants ofice.I am, Sir,Your very humble Servant,A Grateful Magdalen.IiTHEORSAKEN MAID’s LAMENTATION-,r>(OME all ye fervant maids draw near,k >1 While I my griefs relate,l end when the cruel tale you hear,O learn to fhun my fate !jfor 1 tho’ born of humble race,[ By curs’d ambition led,ifpir’d to fill Rebecca's place.And ihar’d my matter's bed,"or this 1 fcorn’d poor Billy's love,Altho, a parfon’s fon ;Vhofe ever gentle manners provei His heart was all my own.rlIy rufTet gown was laid afide,i And all my beft put on ;( ^ )And every day in all the prideOf Sunday clothes 1 flione :For this 1 fet my cap on high,And curl’d my flowing hair ;And, more to fix the wandering eye,1 left my bofom bare.Too well, alas ! ray wifh fucceeds ;Attradled by my charms,The youth his fervent paflfion pleads^And clafps me in his arms.He fwore by every name in heav’nHe’d take me for his wife :And as he hop’d his fins fjprgiv’n.Would love me all his life.While thus he prefs’d my bofom hard.He breath’d an humble pray’r.That 1 would inftantly rewardA paflion fo fincere.His loft carefles sooth’d my mind.And virtue lull’d afleep ;My guardian angel flaid behind,And turn’d alide to weep.Full many, many months he lov’dWith unabated fire, \And full enjoyment only prev’dCreative of defire.C )jTill prudence urging the demand,1 And careful of my fame,claim’d the promife of his haad,To take away my lhame.k riling blufh his face o’crfpread.And Nabal thus reply’d :i You have alone your mafler's bed.But cannot be his bride.I Well mightthe world my meannefs fcorn.If 1 couldfloop fo low‘o marry one fo humbly bornAnd one fo poor as you.”vain 1 urg’d the vows he made.In vain expos’d my grief,,i vain were all the tears 1 Hied,[To bring my foul relief.ijbo late 1 then at length perceiv’d,iThat all my hopes were gone,|hat I’d been cruelly deceiv’d,|And was, alas! undone.>r foon difgufled at my tears,I And fated with my charms,; realiz’d my boding fears.And left my longing arms.iiother now enjoys the blifsFor which 1 humbly figh’d.( 24 )Whofe 'wealth has bought the venal kiss.And made her Nabal's bride.Was it for this (O foolilh maid !)1 fcorn’d the parlon’s fon ?For this alone 1 drefs’d my head.And wore my Sunday’s gown.Did 1 for this his paflion crown,My sex’s pride forego.And brave the Icandal of the town.To be forfaken so !Ah gentle virgins timely wise,Th’impending danger ihun !Nor seek to please yourmafter’s eyes,Left you fhould be undone.But from the youth upon the plainA partner chuse for life;For conftant is the village swain.And happy is his wife.Then peaceful in your little cot,Tour days fhall all be spent;And Heaven fhall bless the favour’d spotWith freedom and content.While I for evermuft deploreMy foolilh easy faith,And never hope for comfort more,But in the arms of death.Fruited by G, Miller, Dunbar.