> V . J. s   ' ‘ —  . *OR, THE% . j'j- fj-'j '' V;• • ; •, < • - ' ... j • :iv rComical Merry TricksO Fl>i» "|. * -V f'j .... '* . ■ i < ■ - rs; " ; ; ;- •, j j':, ' .. s 1LEPER the TAYLOR.PART 11.V.../FUN UPON FUN.EPER’S Landlady became very harfh to his Ma-fter, and very often abnfed him exceeding forewith both tongue and hands, and always chided uponhim for more money, and to have all the money inher keeping, which Leper was very ferry for. It fohappened on a day, after the Taylor had got a heartydrubbing with tongue and tongs, that he pouch’d histhimble, and was going to make a Queen of her ?when fire faw that, (he cried out, ‘ O will ye leave‘ me, a poor tender, dying woman !’ But Leper know¬ing the caufe of her curfed iihnature better than hisMailer did, advifed him to take her on a fine day,like a mile out of town, and give her a walk, and hewould Hay at home, and ftudy a remedy for her dif-order Away they both goes, but as (he was al¬ways complaining of her health, and that {he was veryweak, fire cry’d out frequently, ‘ O Tt is a crying fin‘ to take a woman in my condition out o’er a door.’During their abfence, Leper goes and fearches her bed,and below the bolder he gets a bottle of rare whilkey,of which he takes a hearty pull, and then pilfes in itto make it up again, gets a halfpenny worth of fnufFand puts it in alio, (hakes all together, and fo fets itin its place again. Home they came again, and fireyas exceedingly drfirefled as a woman could be, andcryM out, ‘ It was a horrid thing to take her out of‘ a houfe s’ The Taylor feeing her fo bad, thoughtfhe would have died, and ran as fad as he could aad, ;brought her a dram, but die in her hypocrify pretend¬ed fhe could not take it, and called him to help herto her bed. Into her bed he lays her, and he was notwell gone until die fell to her bottle, taking two orthree hearty gluts, then fhe roars out murder, for firewas poifened, fhe was poifoned. Bocking and purg-|Ting began, and the neighbours are called in, fhe leavesher blood on poor Leper, and tells how fuch an ho-neft woman brought her ae bottle as another was done,and the murdering lown had dole it, and put in abottle oF poifon inftead of it. Leper took to his heels,but was purFued and carried before a Jullice of PeaceI where he told all he had done, which made the Juflicelaugh heartily at the joke, and the Taylor’s wjFe waswell purged both From her Feigned ficknefs, lazinefs,and curfed ill nature, For always when fhe began tocurie her noFe for the future, the Taylor had no moreto Fay, ‘ But Maggy, Maggy, mind the bottle.”Leper was working with a mafter taylor in Glaf-gow, who hungered his men, and one morning juftas the breakfaft was fet on the table, in comes agentleman to try on a fuit of clothes, the Mailer be¬ing obliged to rife, deftred the lads to fay the gracethemfelves, every one refufed it, and put it to hisneighbour, till Leper took it upon him, and Paid asfollows, with an audible voice, that the Granger gentleman might overhear him ; “ Ob, hoch, we are ^parcel of poor beaftly bodies, and we’re as beaftlyguided, if we do not work we get nothing to ear,( yet we are always eating and always fretting, fidgiagand half-fading is like to be our fortune, fcartingsand fcrapings are the mod of our mouthfu’s; wewould fain thank thee for our fulnefs if ever it werefo, but the reft of our benefactors are not worth theacknowledging, hech hey, Amen which made thegentleman laugh till he held his ftdes, and gave Leperhalf a crown to drink.Leper was not long done with his apprenticefliip tillhe fet up for himfelf, and got a journeyman and anapprentice, was coming into very good bufmefs, andhad he retrained his roguifh tricks might have donevery welL He and his lads being employed to workin a farmer’s houfe, where the goodwife was a greatmifer, and not very cleanly in making ready of meat,and fnivel’d greatly when {he {poke. In the morn¬ing {he went to make their pottage, flie made a fafh-ion of wafhing the pot, which by appearance feemedto him to be amongfl the firft pots that had beenmade ; then, {lie fet it down before the fire till {hewent to the well, in which time Leper looking intoit, fees two great holes in the bottom flopped with 'clouts, he takes up his goofe, and holds it as high ashis head, then lets it fall into the pot, which knockedout the bottom of it; prefently in comes the wifewith the wat^r, and pours it into the pot, which fetthe fire-fide all in a dam, for {till as fhe poured it in,it ran mn, the wife being fliort-fighted, or what theycall fand-Slind, looks into the pot, holds up both herhartds and cries, “ The lelh preferve me, firs, for thegrip atween fhe holes is broken fays Leper, the potwas old enough, but do you not ken that taylor’s pot¬tage is heavier than other mens : indeed lad, faid {he,I believe it is fae, but they fay ye’re a Warlock, it’sWrdnefday a’ the warld o’er, and a woful Wednefdayto me indeed, my pot might have lafle^ me this fiftyyear, a fae wad it een. This fport diverted Leper andhis lads thro’ the day, and after flipper, knowing hewras to get but feme dirty bed, as the cows and thepeople lived all in one apartment, he chuftd rather topo home ; and knowing the moon was to rife a littlearter midnight, they i'at long by the fire, told themmany a fine fiery to drive away the time, and bade thewife go and make their bed to fee how it migbt be;ro five candle {lie made it in the dark, direflly on thefloor behind where they fat, {baking down two bottlesof fir aw; a calf which chancfd to be lying on, thatfpot, and which the wife did not notice, was coveredup with the firaw, and the bed clothes fpread over all.The mod of the family being gone to bed, the wifetold them feveral times to go to bed alfo; but Leperknowing of the calf, faid, I’ll make my bed come tome, on which the wife began to pray for herfelf, andall that was in the houfe: fo up he gets his elwand,and gives a flroke on the bed, which caufed the bruteto get up, and not feeing where to go, it fell a cry¬ing, and turning round, which fet the whole cows inthe houfe a roaring out murder in their own tongue,the wife ran to the bed above the goodman, and thewhole family cried out, not knowing what it was, butLeper and his two lads whipp’d the blankets off thebrute, and it ran in amongft the cows unperceived,then Leper lighted a candle, and all of them got outof bed, paid Leper for his work, and more if hepleafed, and begged him to go away, and take the jdevil with him. So home he went, but never wasemployed by that wife more.SLeper had a deal of the beft curtomers, both intown and country; fo one time he had occafion togo to the parifh of Inchinan to make a wedding fuitfor a gentleman ; after they were finiflied, he allieddrink-money to his lads, which the gentleman refuf-ed : Leper refolved to be even with him, fo goes upto the hay-loft where the groom flepr, and takes hi?ftcckings, breeches and jacket, fews them altogether,and fluffs them full of hay, makes a head, puts a ropeabout the neck, and hangs it on a tree oppofite to theLaird’s window, then gees to the Laird and tells himthat his groom had hanged himftlf, and that if hewould open his window, he would fee him hanging;the Laird (truck with aflonifhment knew not what todo; Leper advifes him to bury t'im privately, the Lairdfa id, he hsd not a fervsft: he could truft, fo begged ofLeper to do if, Leper refvfes, till the Laird promifedhim a load of meal; then Leper pulls all the hay outof the groom’s clothes, goes and gets his load of mealand fends it to Glafgow, then goes to the groom, andf?ys haftily, Lrd, thy mailer is wanting thee ; fo thelad ip a bade runs to fee what bis mailer wanted, theLdrd no fooner faw him opening the door than her.y’d out, Avoid thee Satan, avoid thee Satan ; theLd fay?, vs hat’s the matter Sir ? "What’s the matter ?L .. r.c? you hang ycmfelf this morning ? Lord for¬bid : faid the bd : the Laird fays. If thou be an earth¬ly creature, take that rankatd and drink ? which hedid : Then fays he to his Mailer, Leper called me upand Ltd, you wanted me in all ha fie 5 Ho, ho, faysthe Laird, I find out the fiory bow, if I had Leper Iwould run my fword through him : But Leper beforethat was away for CLfgow with his meal.Leper was in yfe to give his lads their Sunday’s-fup-pr, which oblgsd him to fisy from the Kirk in the’afternoon, he having neither wife nor fervant maid ;fo one Sunday afternoon, as be was at home cookinghis pot, John Muckle-cheeks and James Pulf-and-Blaw,two Civileers, having more zeal than knowledge, cameupon him and faid. What’s the matter Sir, you gonot to the kirk? Leper replied, I am reading my book,and cookino ir>v pot, which I think is die work of ne-ceffiiy. Then lays the one to the other, Don’t anfwerthe gracekfs fellow, we’ll make him appear before histenets, fo they took oti" she kaii-pot and puts a Halfthro’ the bowls, and bears it to the Ckrk’s-Ghamber.Leper who was never at a lofs lor invention, goes tothe Principal of the College his hoofe, no body beingat home but a Lds reading a leg of mutton ; Leperfays, My dear, will you go and bring a pint of ale.and PH tom the fph ’till you come back, the lafs wasno fooner gone, than he runs aw^y with the leg ofmutton, which ferved his lads and hjrn for their furi¬per. When the Principal came home, he' was neitherto bin nor ha’d, he was fo angry ; fb on Monday hegoes and makes coraplaiin to the Lord Provoll, whofends two officers for Leper, who came immediately.My Lord allced him, How he dared to take away thePrincipal’s mutton ? Leper replied, How came yonrCivileers to take away my kail-pot ? lam fare, thereis lefs fin in making a pot-full of kail, than roafting aleg of mutton, Law-makers flaould not be law-break¬ers, fo I demand juftice on the Civileers; the Provoflalked him, what jutlice he would have ? fays he, Makethem carry the'pot back again; as for the Principal, aleg of mutton won’t make him and me fall out : fothey were forced to carry the pot back, and Leper cau-fed the boys to huzza after them to their difgraee.There was a Barber which always plagued Leper,calling him a Prick-the-Loufe ; Leper refolved to beeven with him, fo he goes and buys three fheep heads,and fends for the Barber and told him, that there werethree Southland gentlemen come to his houfe, whowanted to be fhaved, and he allured him he would re¬ceive fixpence for each one of them, this good newsmade the lhaver fend for a dram; Leper was dill praif-ing tbetfl for quiet good-natured gentlemen, fo Lepertakes him to the bed where the fheep-heads lay cover¬ed, and defired him to v/aken them, for they wouldnot be angry, or fay an ill word to him, the Barberlifts the covering and fees the fheep-heads, runs outcurling and Iwearing, and Leper crying after him,Sheep-head Barber.The Barber refolved to be revenged on Leper, fowhen be was fhaving Mefs John, he tells him that Le¬per was the drunkeneft fellow in his parjjh; fo MefsJohn warns him to the felfion, Leper comes and fays, |What do you want with me, Sir ? Come away Leper,fays Mefs John, I hear a bad report of you: Me, Sir !I am fure they were not my friends that told you that. |Indeed, I am informed you are a great drunkard; Ia drunkard! you have not a foberer man in your pa- Hlifh: Stay Sir, I’ll tell you how I lead my life : Inthe morning I take a choppin of ale, and a bit ofbread, that I call my morning : for breakfaft I gene¬rally take a herring and a choppin of ale, for I can¬not fup brofe like my lads; the herring makes medry, fo at eleven hours I take a pint ; at dinner an¬other pint; at four afternoon my comrades and Ijoin, fometimes we are a pint and fometimes threechoppins; at fupper I take a bit of bread and cheefeand a pint, and fo I go to bed : Mefs John fays, Itsextravagant Sir, its excelfive drinking, I allow youthe one half of it for a quarter of a year ; fays Le¬per, I’ll try it, Sir, and come back and tell you. Atthe end of the quarter he draws out his account, andgoes to Mtfs John, who was fitting with his elders inthe fdfion houfe, and fsys. Sir, I have, a demand onyou : On me, Sir; Yes, on you, Sir ; Don’t you re- |member, you allowed me fo much drink for a quar¬ter of a year, and I want the msney ; am I to payfor your reckoning, Sir ? You allowed it, and if youwon’t pay it, I’ll take you before the Provoft: TheElders advifed him to pay it or he would be affronted;fo Leper got the money *. When he was at the dcor,he fays, Sir, will ye (land another quarter ? Get away,fays Mefs John, and don’t trouble me. Leper fays, I’mfure you may, for I was always twopence to yourpenny, ^ «THE END OF THE SECOND PART,