THEUnpardonable SinAGAINST THEHOLT GHOST.ASERMON,Preached by the LadeMR ROBERT RUSSEL.Minister of the Gospel at Wadhurst, in• Sussex.; EDINBURGH;ftRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLER.'1818.SERMONON THEUNPARDONABLE SIN.I John, v. 16.There is a Sin unto death.This sin which St John calls here, ‘ The sinunto death,’ is the unpardonable sin against theHoly Ghost described by our blessed Saviour 'Matth. xii. 32, That whosoever commits it,,hath no forgiveness, neither in this world nor inthe world to come; For, • All manner of sinand blasphemy, shall be forgiven unte men;but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost, shall;not be forgiven unto men. And he that speak-eth a word against the Son, it shall be forgivenhim; but whosoever speaks against the HolyGhost, shall never be forgiven, neither in thisworld, nor- in the world to come.’ This siaagainst the Holy Ghost, is that sin which St |John calls here, « The sia uato death.’ Notbecause that sin deserves death alone, for sodoes all sin deserve death both temporal andeternah ‘ For the wages of sin, even all sin isdeath.’ Rom^ vi. 23. But this sin against theHoly Ghost, is v'calledi * The sin unto death/because it binds a man over to eternal death,without any possibility of recovery. Now, somethere are* that go on from one degree of sin toanother; they heighren and aggravate their sinmore and more, until they are brought to thatheight at fast, as to commit that sin for whichthere is no forgiveness.There is no mere man since the fall, canlive without sin, for all are sinaers; But yetthere are degrees of sin; some sins, in their ownnature, are small; others are more great andhenious. Many sins there are that are great,)%t pardonable; and one sin there is, unpardon¬able: And, whosoever commits that one siu,(shall have no forgiveness, but must for everbear the weight and punishment both of thatand of all his other sins. There is such a sin as(St John speaks of here in my text, that is, ‘ Abin unto death.’ And now I come to the exph-fcation of the words; from whence I shall raise(this point of doctrine.Doct * That amongst all the sins committedj by fallen mankind, there is only one sin, thatsi is, ‘ A sin unto death;’ and whosoever com-E mitteth that, he hath no forgiveness, neitherin this world nor in the world to come.*1 Now, for my further proceeding on this sub-jet, I shall lay open to you,What, ‘ The sin unto death,’ is.Secondly, That all other sins, how great andenious soever may be forgiven.Thirdly, That this sin alone, shall never be;»r given.Fourthly, The reasen why this sin alone ifunpardonable. And then,Lastly, I shall conclude all with a fevijwords of Application.I shall begin first with a description of thijlunpardonable sin: Where I shall make at.plain a description of it, as possibly I canjAnd, in doing of it, I shall 1 Shew you negaitively what is not this sin. 2 I shall shew yeupositively what it is.I shall shew you, negatively, what is nov* The sin unto death:’ Or, in what degree :iman may sin, and yet not conimit that unpar*donable sin against the Holy Ghost.1 It is not every quenching of tie mo*tions of the Spirit that is this sin. It is trotwhen the Holy Ghost comes with a stilvoice, and knocks at the door of sinner',hearts for entrance he often comes and strivewith them and secretly wooes and beseech#them to leave their sins and be converct$yet they quench and stifle all the motion*and bear up thebr hearts against him and wilnot be obedient to the heavenly calls. Nowsuch sin griveously against the Holy Ghosbut yet this alone is not the unpardonable sitagainst the Holy Ghostt for many that harstood it ont a long time, and have oftejquenched and grieved the Holy Spirit, yet alast they have been wrought upon into siracere conversion.2 A man may commit many henious and crying sins, and yet not be guilty of the unpardonable sin against the Holy Ghost. A man may; be an idolater, a whoremonger, a fornicator, amurderer, and witchcraft, and sin with a veryhigh hand; nay, he may live-in all manner offilthiness and lewdness, and yet not. be underthe guilt of the unpardonable sin against theHoiy Ghost. Thus we read, 2 Chrn. xxEiii.and Manasseh sinned with a very high hand; hewas an idolater, an inchanter, and worked witch=I craft and dealt with familiar spirits aud wroughtmuch evil, in the sight of the Lord.—And MaryMagdalen had seven devils cast out of her,Luke viii. 2. ajid yet both were pardoned.3 A man may sin presumptuously againstgreat light and knowledge, and yet not committhis sin unto death: For, Peter, when he de¬nied Christ, he did it against great knowledge of‘ Christ; he knew Christ to be his Lord and Sa¬viour, he was one of Christ's beloved disciples;and, for all that, how strongly he denied Christ,and that with an oath: And yet. for all that,Christ looked upon him with a merciful eye! and he repented and was forgiven.4. It is not every malicious sin that is theunpardonabe sin against the Holy Ghost: forSt Paul certainly had great malice in his heartwhen he went on so furiously to persecute thechurch of God, and yet he was converted, andbecame a preacher of the gospel of Christ, whichbefore he persecuted.5. And lastly, It is not final unbelief, norfinal impenitence, that is the unpardonable sinagainst the Holy Ghost, tho'some be of opinionfcJiat it is, because that sin is unpardonable,_anlChrist himself hath said, Mat. xxii. 31,all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be foigiven unto men, except it be the sin against th(Holy Ghost.' But you are to take the words oiour Saviour in their true sense and meaning ajis all manner of sin and blasphemy committiwithin the compass of a man’s liie, that shallforgiven, except the sin against tho Holy Ghostfor the sin of final impenitence, and final unbelief, is not completed until the very moment o|a man's death; and then you know there is ncrepentance, and consequently no pardon aftetdeath; for Christ said, ‘ He that sins against th<Holy Ghost, hath ,no fotgiveness, neither in thi<world nor in the world to come.’ Now, vvh^should Christ say, ‘in this world,' if there be no¬space to be forgiven in this world. But a maumay commit the unpardonable sin against theHoly Ghost even many years before his death1-!Besides, there are many thousands that die inimpenitence ind unbelief, and are damned andjyet never committed the unpardonable sin againslj!the Holy Ghost.Thus have I shewed you, negatively, what isnot this unpardonable sin.- none of those sins in,particular is that sin.If. 1 cbme how to shew you positively, whatlthis sin unto death is, and wherein this unparl‘ ‘ " : Jdonable sin against the Holy Ghost doth consist.'Now there are several opinions in the world.,about it, but 1 will endeavour, through God'shelp, to lead you to the plain sight of it by thelight of the holy Scriptures.Now, in the first place you must kuow, thatthere are two sorts of people that cannot comntitthis unpardonable sin.The true believers cannot commit it, becauseit is a sin against great light and knowledge.—Indeed the greatest part of the world shall bedamned; yet among the greatest part, there arebut few of them that can commit that utipai=donable sin against the Ilo'y Ghost.Some have both light and grace; these shallnot commit the unpardonable sin-Again, some have neither light nor grace;these cannot commit the unpardonable sinagainst the Holy Ghost.Now, there must be two ingredients, to makeup this unpard«nable sin: that is, light in thehead, and malice in the heart; without thesetwo, the sin against the Holy Ghost cannot becommitted; for, to sin against great light andknowledge, nor yet to sin ignorantly, withoutmalice, is that sin; but they must both join to¬gether to make up this unpardonable sin. Thiswe see plainly by the example of St Peter andSt Paul; Peter denied Christ, and forswarehimself too, and that griveously against lighland knowledge; for he knew Christ to be theonly begotten Son of God, and he knew Godin him; he was one of Christ's disciples, and oneof his beloved disciples too; he was taught ofChrist, and had experimental knowledge of h:slove and favour, and yet he wickedly with an8oath denied him. Naw if Peter had done thi|f»ut of malice and spite, then he had committedthat sin unto death for which there is no for-^giveness; but Peter had no malice m his heartsill the while, even at the time when he denied,!Christ, as you may see in Matth. xxVi 34. 35,when Christ told him < Before the cock crow*thou shalt deny me thrice;' he answered ‘ IfI should die with thee, I wilt not deny thee:*And then denying him through infirmity andweakness of the flash; when he had consideredwhat he had done ‘ He went out and weptbitterly' Ver. 75. But Paul had great maliceand spite against the ways and people of Godjias you may see Acts ix. i. ‘ Paul breathed outthreatnings and slaughters against the disciplesof the Lord, add went to rhe high priest desir¬ing of him letters to Damascus t© the Syna¬gogues, that if he found any of this way whethermen or wottien, he should bring them boundto Jerusalem.’ Now here was great rage andmalice in Saul, against the ways and the peopleof God; but doing it ignorantly he at last heardia voice saying ‘ Saul, Saul, why persecutes^fhou me?’ And seeing a light from heaven,and hearing it was Jesus that he persecuted hewas pricked at the heart, and trembling and'astonished said ‘ Lord what wilt thou have meto do?’ Now by these two places of Scripture,!you may p'aln1’’ see that Peter sinned againstgreat light, ,i*. Paul out of great malice; yet'neither emitted the unpardonable sinagain--*- the Hoi; Ghost. But whensoever lightnd malice meet together in one man then therej the sin against the Holy Ghest. Now as allther sins, so is this sin against the Holy Ghost,i. In thought; that is when a wicked manigainst his clear light and knowledge, doth butbnceive a malicious thought or purpose towardsersecuting the Gospel of Christ, or of the saintsf Christ to hindei the work of the Holy Ghosti them.This sin as is to be thought was the sin of(he lost angels; for which cause they were lostl/ithout all hopes of pardon. Now some disputeIvhether this sin was a sin of the thought; butj say in all likelihood it was; for the angelsIeing only spirits without bodies, and so havingo use of bodily tongues it couid not be cnm-ijiutted in word, not yet eoiild they commit it;n action, because they were cast out of heaven,|efore they could bring it into practise; there¬fore it must be a sin for the thought.Now the sm was this: Their habitationneing in die highest heavens and under Godiimself. they had exceeding great light andilnowledge, they had more kno wledge than allShe men in tho world erer had, aud were happyplbove all other creatures; but when not beingontented with this estate, they thought to beshighasGod himself; therefore they maliciouslyought to make war against ihe Son of God, andvtre immediately thurst out of heaven neve?nore to see the face of mercy; and thus fromde beginning they have been counted maliciousd revengeful; as ragin" beasts and as roaring[ 10 ]ions. Thus their sin being of the same naturewith the sin against the Holy Ghost, they wereexcluded all hopes of pardon.But that the sin of our first parents was not1the unpardonable sin against the Holy Ghostis clear; for though they sinned against greatlight, yet they obeyed and complied with thewill of God even when the tempter came, untilat last they were enticed and overcome; butthey did not fall maliciously, and so were notTscluded all possibility of nwrcy.This sin may be committed in word too;that is when a man speaketh blasphemously andmaliciously of Christ and his holy ways. Thiswas the sin of the Scribes and Pharisees Markiii. £2. f There were certain Scribes who cameand said This fellow hath Beelzebub and castethout devils by the prince of devils/ Thereforesaith Christ unto them vpr 23. 29. ‘ Verily I sayunto you, All sins shall be forgiven to the sonsof men, and blasphemes wherewith they sh allblaspheme t but whosoever shall blasphemeagainst the Holy Cohost Hath never forgiveness,but is in danger of eternal damnation.Now the reason of this speech of our blessedSaviour, is shewn in ver. 30. < Because they saidhe hath an unclean spirit.' Which plainly shewsthat these Scribes had spoken blasphemy againstthe Holy Ghost;, as these Scribes were great'learned men, they could know no other but thatChrist was the Son of God, and must knowthat he cast out devils by the spirit of God, andyet they out of spite to Christ, maliciously a;id. I 11 3ilasphemously said < That he east out devi sy Beelzebub the prince of devils/ Thuslhecribes commirted the unpardonable sin againstjre Holy Ghost; and that in word,j 3. This sin may be commitr l in action too*aat is when . a man being once thoroughly^lightened, having entered upon a holy Coursef liie, and tasted the comfort of God’s’Spirit,nd some foretaste of the joys of heaven, andfbt only makes profession of the gospel, butlaches it to others; yet at last take a dislike' the holy courses, and through Spite and tnalifceitterly forsaken, opposes and persecutes thosepod ways of God, which he before professedlid taught. But to sum up this point, thisiapardonable sin against the Holy Ghost is fullyescribed by the apostle to the Hebrews, Chap.| 26, 27, 29 ‘Tor if we sin wjflfuHy aftef vt elave received the knowledge of the truth, thereitmaineth no more sacrifice for sin but a fearfulloking for of judgement and fiery indignation,thich shall devour th£ adversaries—Of howi»uch sore punishment sh'alT’he be thoughtWorthy who hath trodden under foot the Sonf God, and counted the blood of the covenantherewith he was sanctified Jin unholy thing,id hath done despite to the Spirit bi grace/ikewise Heb. vi 4 5 6. ‘ Tor it is impossih eir those who are made partakers of the HolyIhost, and have tasted the good word of God,id the powers of the world to cpitie, if they fallway to renew thejn again to repentance, seeingf 12 ]they crucify to themselves afresh the Son of Gothl¬and put him to open shame.Now the sin against the Holy Ghost isbriefly this-, it is a wilful and malicious opposingthe known truth j .ined with final apoftacy.f shall a little explain these w,ords andthen proceed.1. This sin unto death is ay opposing sin.Now to oppose a thing is to contradict it orgainsay it; as when a man says a thing is soand so, he denies it and says it is not so; sowhen a man says a thing must be done, he saysagain It must not or it shall not be done; suchan opposition is in the heart of him that commitsthia unpardonable sin ; 13ut a man may be an .opposing man and yet may not committ this sin.Therefore,2. It is the truth he must oppose: that ishe must utterly oppose and reject Christ, who |said ‘ I am the truth/ John xiv. 9. He epposethhis threatninev snd will not believe hispromises, End counts the blood of the covenant ;to be an unholy thing : Nay he also opposuth |the Spirit of Christ, who is the Spirit of Truth, Jso that he will not obey his motions, and will ?not be led nor guid-d by him. But a man mayoppose the truth and do it ignorant! v ; There-if. re,3. It must be the known truth that he 1opposeth. He must be one ei.lightened ; but:|you must know it is not only a rational know-iledge, and human learning, lor he may know |much of God and of his will, iu the letter of( 13 ); his,won!; and yet not be capable of committingi this unpardonable sin*, but he must be so farEnlightened as to see the evil that is in sin, andMhe excellency of Christ; he must taste of thetjieaven’y gift, and be made partaker of thei fioly Ghost; and taste of the good word °f'i md the powers of the world to come; and byI he blood of the covenant, which he counts asm unholy thing, he is in part sanctified anddeans^d from many sins; he must have sweeti communion with God in his word and sacra-I -nent: he milst have some taste of the love andjbe refreshed by it, and tasteof the joys of heaven*: and have some foretaste of the happiness of thei jivorld to come. This is that light and know¬ledge that lays a man open .to the committingbf that unpardonable sin. But yet a man may sinpgainst all the light of experiments! knowledge,hnd yet do it through the weakness of the {1 - t>h,jpr through some violent temptations as Peterpid when he denied Christ. Therefore,I 4. must oppose the known truth wilfully;i IHe must wilfully fall away after he hath re-fceived the knowledge of the trutla; other sinsafe committed through' infirmity, but this sin isWilful,, the will is the ohiet actor in it, end tocomplete and make up this unpardonable sin,here is5. Malice ' in .'the heart. Without this,his sin cannot be committed. I*must be a mn-icious opposing 61 the known truth; that isfrhen a man being once enlightened, and having»sted of the heavenly gift add the good word[ H ]of God, and hath been made partaker of theHoly Ghost, and hath had some sweet relish andforetaste of heaven, he comes to take a dislike ,and to hatetheholy ways of God, and maliciously ,oppose aed persecute them, in despite of theSpirit of grace, crucifying afresh the Son ofGod, and putting him to open shame.Now a pian having gone thus far, he comesin the last place to.be an apostate; for thus tooppose wilfu'ly and maliciously the.known truthis always joined with final and total apostacy ;for he that is so far enlightned as to see theevil of sin, and the excellency of Christ and ho¬liness, and hath been made partakers of theHoly Ghost, of his graces and comfort, andtasted of God’s love and favour in Jesus Christ,and has some foretaste of the joys of the worldto come; for sucl? a one wilfully., spitefully, andmaliciously to fall away, he so falls as never torise more. It is true the children of God fall,and that often and rtie again; but then theyfall through weakness or infirmity, and notwilfully or maliciously:; but these wicked wretch¬es fall wilfully and maliciously, and so fall finally.Against such the door of mercy is for ever shut.Concerning such St Peter said ‘ It had beenbetter for them not to have known the way ofrighteousness, than after they had known it toturn from the holy commandment deliveredunto them. >3ut it.happened unto them accord¬ing to the true proverb, The dog is returned toIns vomit again, and the sow that was washed, toher wallowing in the mire.’ 2 Pet. ii. 21. 22.( 15 )! ihere is a dreadful place in Scripture againsti iese kind of apostates; that is Heb. x. 26.if or if we Sin wilfully after we have receivedMe knowledge of the truth, there remaineth notore sacrifice for sin, but a fearful looking fori judgment and fiery indignation.’i jThus have 1 given you five steps, ,3s sojiipny links in a chain, all which make up the»i pardonable sin against the Holy Ghost- It is. wilful and malicious opposing of the knownlith, joined with final apostacy. Thus have' 'shewed you as plain as I can, what this sint ito death is.;; Secondly. The next thin^f to be consideredthat all other sins and blasphemies whatso-er may be forgiven. Be our sins ever so greatId many, though we be the vilest wratches|jat ever lived, yet there is hope of pardon uponilpentance. Manasseh was the vilest wretchat ever we read of, yet he repented and wasi||rdoned. Also, Mary Magdalen was the chiefsinners, for out of her came seven devils; yetcause she loved much, much was given her.man may be a whoremonger, an adulterer,d work witchcraft, and deal with familiar[irits, and yet at last, he may repent and be7ed, And yet 1 have heard talk of some that: so foolish as to take the sin of fornication forunpardonab'e sin from God’s own words, in* second commandment; < I, the Lord thynd. am a jealous God, visiting the sins of the:hers upon the children, unto the third andurth generation.’ From whence they say.[ 16 ]that children that are base born are not savedun o the third and fourth generation. But thisis a most erroneous interpretation of God’s word;It is those that hate him, and continue in hatingof him, that he will inflict their iniquities upon;For fornicators and adulterers themselves mayrepent and be saved; much more the childrenwho knew nothing, nor could help nothing;For Christ with' his own mouth; tells the Scribesand Pharisees, Matth. xxi 31. that the publicansand harlots should enter into the‘kingdom ofheaven before them. For there is no sin butwhat is pardonable, except the sin againstthe Holy Ghost But,Thirdly} This sin against the Holy Ghostis alone the sin unto death; that is a sin un¬pardonable, never to be forgiven, neitherin thisworld, nor in the world to come. Not becausethe merits of Christ are not sufficient to pardonit, for this sin, as well as ether sins, is butfinite, Whereas the merits of Christ are in.finite.Object. What is the reason that this sincannot be forgiven.Answ. This question brings me to thefourth thing considerable. Do but mind mea little, and I will as plain and as clear as I cantell you what the reason is.This sin is called the sin against the HolyGhost, not because it is sin against the personof the Holy Ghost, for so is all sin agnimt hisperson; but it is called the ein against theHoly Ghost, because it is against the office and( n )I work of the Holy Ghost. Now every one of( the three persons lure their particular work;The work of the Father is to create ; the workof the Son is to redeem lost sinners; and the| work of the Holy Ghost is to enlighten, can-| vince, sanctify and convert them. Now a mani committing this unpardonable sin against theHoly Ghost, rejects all this work of the spirit.| Now for a man to be thoroughly enlightenedi by the Holy Ghost, that he comes to know the1 i evil of sin, and his lost and undone condition|| without Christ, and that nothing but the merits;i of Christ can save him, and notwithstanding(I wilfully and maliciously oppose him, and thejji) work of the spirit, and refuse to be beholden'I to him for salvation : now for such a one 1 say:| to be forgiven is utterly impossible.Object, But why is it impossible. Nothing| is impossible with God.Object, Nothing is impossible with God| that does not imply a contradiction; but thatJ God will forgive the sin committed against the, Holy Ghost, implies a contradiction; for how;i can he have a pardon given him, that utterly. \ rejects it. As for instance,' A man through ignorance, may deny Christnay, maliciously fall from the profession of thetruth into all kinds of wickedness, as did St Paul. and the Jews that crucified Christ, yet not fa!-I ling against light and knodwledge, there is roomfor the Holy Ghost to work upon him, to en-' lighten him, and convince him of his folly,and so make way for conversion. But for a man[ 18 ]when he is once enlightened by the Holy Gftaand has had Some foretaste of the joys of heavjand then at last utterly opposing this illurainaing wort of the spirit, wilfully and malicious!to fall away, and so to reject the spirit’s renefling work, alas! then the Holy Ghost has doiihe bas nothing more then than he can work Jhimj for this wretched creature has utterly rj*cted him, his enlightening work, his convincilwork, his sanctifying work; he has utterly rjected Christ’s pardon, heaven and all! No<this pocr wretch is past all hopes of mercy, thopes of pardon. Nay, for such a one we 4forbidden to pray as you see in the verse wher#my text is a part. Now Christ prayed for the?that maliciously crucified him, Luke xxvii 3saying, Father forgive them, for they knotnot what they do.’ Alas! they knew not whthey were doing; ‘ Forbad they known it, thsw°nid not have crucified the Lord of gloryi Cor. ii 8. But if they had known, and yhave crucified him, Christ would not have speihis breath to pray for them; for it would hatbeen utterly in vain, for when a man h:committed this unpardonable sin, neither tlipraying in heaven nor earth can do him argood; for the text vaith ‘There is a sin untdeath.’I shall conclude with a few words of appliecation, and I will be a-; short as pcoible, lerthis discourse should be too large for fsmall a book. Here is,First. A word of comfort.Secondly. A word of counsel,i First, A word of comfort. It may be thij by hearing and reading of this terrible discoursj your hearts begin to ache for fear that you haI committed this unpardonable sin; but I thi ?I 1 have sufficiently proved to you what it is; a: .I I tell you again, that there are few who ci! commit it; nay, there are millions that are tc ■lij mented in hell, yet never committed this siI'j Nay farther, an ignorant Protestant may throuj;| weakness, and out of a slavish fear turn Papb .i i and renounce his profession, and yet not commiij this unpardonable sin against the Holy Ghosil for doing it out of ignorance and infirmiti ,II there may be matter left for the Holy Ghoto work upon whereby he may yet be convertcli| and saved. Consider this also, if you are afraj;i| you have committed it, and wish that you hanot committed it, and would not commit it, if'PI were to do again; then that is a true sign you havIII not committed it.I Secondly, [ must conclude all with a worI of counsel.1. Watch very diligently against all shBut above all take special heed of those sii.that come near to the sin against the Holy Ghos*and they are thesej Hypocrisy, taking only tl>outward profession of religion, and so dissembling and mocking of God; sinning wilfull-agarnst conviction of conscience, and agains,great light and knowledge; and sinning pre1 sumptuously/with an high hand. These sms,though none of them are the direct sin against[ 20 ]the Holy Ghost, yet they come very near totherefore take special heed of them, lest the;in time should bring you to the committing jthat unpardonable sin. And,2. Labour to be sincere in religion; atby a true faith ingraft yourselves in Christ, 6they that be in Christ can never commit tl*unpardonable sin: for know this, that amo|all the sins committed by fallen mankind, theiis one sin that is a ‘ sin unto death/ whichthe unpardonable sin^gainst the Holy Ghonwhich whosoever commits, hath no forgivenetneither in this world, nor in the world to coniConsider what hath been said and tlLord give you understanding.END OF THE SERMON.EXTRACTVrom the writing!, of a French Protestant Mi-\ nister, on the Revelation of the Apostle John.Published in the year 1635.After that we have explained all the visionsin this Revelation, we are not to forget toI enquire the reason why Jesus Christ .judgedit convenient to direct it, together with theEpistles, particularly to the Seven Churchesof Asia; Ephesus, Syrcrna, Pregamos, Thyatita,Sardia, Philadelphia, and Laodicea.1. The number 7 is a mysterious numberthrough this whole book. It signifies theuniversality and the fulfilling of all times asappeareth by the consideration of the 7 Seals,the 7 Trumpets, and the 7 Vials; becausethat number denoteth the whole train of thingswhich the Seals Trumpets, and. Vials, foretellare to come to pass till the very destruction ofthe Antichristian empire.[ 22 ]2. Christ appeareth, having in his han7 Stars, which are the seven Pastors of tfseven Churches, and walking in the midst i7 Candlesticks, which are the seven Churchethat we have mentionedr But why SevenDoth he not promise to be the protector buof these seven P«Ators and the Qverseer antDefender but of these Churches.3. There is a conformity between thavision in the first chapter, and those of thiseven Seals, and of the opened Book; for wthere find the same pomp the sound of the trumpet, and the glorious presence of our Saviou.in the midst of his church.; and, withal h*appeareth there walking in the midst of th«seven candlesticks, and sitting in the midst othe four living creatures and the four anttwenty Elders; by which conformity we aregiven to understand, that this first vision is olequal weight and of an equal extension withall the other ; and that this of the 7 churcheireached to the end of the world, as all th<following together do.4. Jesus Christ saith to John, ver. 19.« Write the things which thou hast seen, and;the things which are, and the things whichshall be hereafter.’ Which is as much as ifhe had said. Write, not only things whichconcern the churches which are mentioned, andwhich ought to be instructed as these are; butwhich also concern all churches to the end of(‘ 23 ); he world and whereof the seveathat are nameda model and type.The statfr of the Cxhurch of Ephesus dothI Ively represent the condition of the ^Primitivevhere Truth prevailed, and where at the last,: he deyay of charity became a disposition and! step to a more doleful stated Whosoever well: onsiders what is said to the Church of Ephesus,i /ill therein find the condition of the PrimitiveChurch painted fprth to the life.fj That of Symrna represents the state of theiiliurch during the fourth and fifth ages; whereinkrianism had, the upper hand, and wherein theirtbodox were outrageously persecuted. Thatb the Tribulation of ten days, wherewith Sy-mrna is threatened; not the Ten Persecutions ofWhich Dioclesian’s was the last.That of Pregamus hath a reference to the time/hen Antichrist sitteth in the Temple of God,|nd when the church, is hardly visible, through:er dwelling as the church of Pregamus did,/here Satan had his throne.t That of Thyatira had a great conformity toihe condition of the church when Antichrist both(iiegaa to fall, and began to raise himself again;Recording to the testimony given by our Saviour|o that of Thyatira, «Thou hast not the doctrinepf Jezebel, and thou hast known the depthsof Satan.’( 24 )That of Philadelphia is a portrait me ofof the church when she shall be perfectlyformed, when Sion shall be perfectly estabii1•when the alone Key of David shall openshut; when the voice of Jesus Christ shallperfectly followed and that both with respectto manners and to faith. This is the stiwherein the church will be during the timethe Millenian reign.Lastly, that of Laodicea is a mirror, wherin we may behold the state of the churftowards the end of the world, when zeal sh;become cold, charity scarce to be fouitd, ascorruption shall abound and be universal, atthereby draw upon the world that deluge of hrwhich shall give a renovation unto it.'I