THELIFE AND EXPLOITSOFHOB ROY MG MEG ORFALKIRK:MltNTKO B*V T. JOtlKSTOH.TUBL IF K h;r ‘.j iV*} cr nomrn..i>gjsof r.; n’,-.0'f *ir ' i 1 1 ' i• f ( t i* V ‘) ft f 'i’Xj i . v5 Cj fp fi' «. i ffRob Roy MGregot',Robert M‘Gregor, or Rob Rov, wrb•econd son of Donald M‘Gre"or, ofth^family of Glen^yl^, a lieutenant-colonelin the king’s service, by a daughter ok’Campbell of Glenljon. Our hero wasdenominated Roy, a Celtic or Gaelicphrase, significant of his ruddy com¬plexion and colour of hair.Rob Roy’s family were very respect¬able. His father was the friend andally of Regent Murray, and brought to.his assistance 8(>0 M‘Gregors, in an ex-Sedition to qUell an insurrection of the1‘Phersons in the north ; for which seivrice Murray granted him a lease of afarm, which still remains in the posses#ion of the family.The education which Hob Hoy re-4.ceived was sufficient for the sphere oflife he was destined to occupy In hisearly years, it vvduld have required veryuncommon penetratien to discover thoseindications of sagacity and prudencewhich he afterwards exhibited. In youthhe evitfCOd^trorig'nattffai parts* arid soonexcelled his compeers* in the rude ac¬complishments cf in© age. He was ac¬tive, bold, and possessed of great bodi¬ly powers ; he has.been, known to seizea deer by the horns, and hold him fast.In the use of the broad sword, few couldequal him. But although his frame wasso singularly robust and his dispositiondaring and resolute, yet his manners>rcre polite; his address insinuating, hisfaculties acute, his conclusions prompt,and his resolution determined. '. ‘ ,In his youth, he studied the ancienthistory, and reci-ted the-impressive pmhtrv, of his country/;, and, these w&reeminently calculated to inspire senti¬ments that cherished a warlike and eii-terprising spirit. Robf in his boyhood,delighted in the reveries of a romanticimagination, contemplating the sublunograndeur of his native wilds-*“ Therocky mountain, whose summits wereoften hid in the clouds that floatedaiound them; the dark valley, encircled3lay woddv eminences \ the hold promontory; opposed to the foamm£ ocean,and sometimes adorned by the castle ofa chieftain ; the still bosom of the ake,that reflected the surrounding lanu-^cape the impetuous mountain cata¬ract ; and the dreary silence of the ca¬vern.” ,vere objects that influenced hisyouthful feelings, disposing Ins mind tothe cultivation of generous and ipumysentiments, These impressions werenever after eradicated 1'hey conanutato biass his temper, and to give it a castof romantic chivalry, which he exem¬plified ia many of his future actions.Rob Roy being now determined tofollow the quiet avocations of a rurallife, rented a tract of grazing land atBalq.uhid.ler, and for several years, pui-sued a quiet and inoffensive course. Buthis cattle were often stolen, dong withthose of his neighbours, ’ by hordes orbanditti from the northern shires, whowasted the country. In order to pro¬tect himself from these marauders, hewas constrained to maintain a selectparty of men ; and to this cause rhnypartly be attributed the warlike habitswhich he afterwards acquiredA considerable number of Macros,from the western part of Rqss, havingf. f'-JL6e.Mr.tvnUcd an outrage or the properly*<?£ a neighbour, and carried off fifteen'iesd of cattle, an express %ras sent toiilob, informing him of the circumstance.J&eing tiie first call of the kind he hadreceived since he became the protectorof the vicinity, he instantly summoned* dozen of his men, and followed theplunderers. Two days and a night hetravelled, without obtaining any otherinforumtion as to their track, then attimes seeing the impression of the cat-tle’s feet on the ground. The secondmight, being fatigued, the party lay downin a glen, near the march of Badenoch.They had not rested long, when a firewas discovered at a little distance. They-instantly set forward to reconnoitre,> when they found it was a band of jollytinkers, carousing near their tent. Theirmirth, however, was soon interrupted^when they beheld Hob Roy and his par-tv. The tinkers informed him they hadseen the^Macras, who were at but a lit¬tle distance; and two of the tinkersagreed to conduct the party to the spot.The freebooters had halted, far thesecurity of their spoil, in a narrow partof the glen, when the M‘Gregors over¬took them, as they were setting out inthe morning. Rob, with a loud and ter^7; •• • ^ '• .*» ' ' 'rific voice, which resounded tmong’th?craggy acclivities, charged them to stbp;but as they disregarded the order, hrrushed upon them with such fury, thatsix of their number lay prostrate on theground. The rest made a stout resist¬ance, but were soon overcome; two be¬ing killed, and five wouned, they gaveup the contest. Four of Roy’s lads wereseverely wounded, and himself receiveda cut on the left arm from the captain ofthe banditti. The booty, thus recover¬ed, was driven back, and restored to therightful owner. Rob received greatpraise for this exploit; and many otter¬ed to contribute their donation of4 blackmail.’ This circumstance, no doubt,tended to arouse the latent activity andcourage of his mind. ^The executive government not onlcianctioned, but enforced the exaction of4 black mail:’ and all constables werecommanded to see 4 this order put intoexecution, as they sail answer to the con •trair. Rob Roy’s exaction of this taxwas not therefore an unauthorised robbe¬ry, hut sanctioned by custom and lac'dinstitution. 1’or some time too be wasemployed in assisting the olficers of theneighbouring districts, in coUecting im¬posts for maintaining the ‘Black Watch,’sa ralitia, pf6*C‘6t life1'rves and property of the peopftj fro'tn,^aasrauding plunderers. Thig corps, fromthe celebrity they acquired, afterwardsbecame regular trOdps, and Were theorigin of the gallant 4&d regiment, lbn»‘known by the name of the * HighlandWatch.Ivbb Roy’s birth as a gentleman, andHi? respectable ronnexioiisr, when' he at-tairied to manhood, procured him s6-eess to the first families, and admi&iotiinto the best company in the country,lie formed a matrimonial engagementwith a daughter of M‘Gregor of Comar, 'a Wbtnan of an agreeable temper anddomestic habits, active and economicalin the management of her family. Butshe took no part in the predatory con-. cm hs of her husband, except on one o«-(’■ssion afterwards mentioned.Rob was not possessed of any patfi-mormb property, but became master ofthe estate of Craigcrostan, in t!ie fol¬lowing manner.—‘ When M‘Gregor ofM‘Gregor, Was driven from bis posses¬sions in Glenurchy; by the Campbells,«e bougiit the Lands of fnversnait andCraigcrostan, then of small value, tho"of considerable boundaries, extendingfrom the head of Loch Lomond, 129wiles along its, eastern bordfeif; aridStretching for the interior of theand partly around the base otauin?ndPi»5 Ken Lomond. On the deat iff iS ehief, in 16^3, he left his proper-tv to a natural brother, who was .am. mKilwapnan. This person was succeed*ed by a son, who courted a daughter orthp laird of Leny ; but Roy Roy, 'li omwhat c^use. is net known, raised:suspi-cipns against him in the mind oi theyoung lady, who in consequence, ieject¬ed her lover. He then paid.his addresses,tp a daughter ol Colquhoun of Ldss,and their marriage day was was fixea^wthpn Rob again interfered, and Misst^Qkpihoun also refused to fulfil her en¬gagement. •Enraged at such treatment.,the young chieltain went to haikiik,where he married a woman ef mean ex-trtvetipn, which so displeased his friends,Miat they np logger regarded him asthefr connection. I>y this trertment,- tiio young man was so disgusted with.his.clan, that he gave up his estate to RobRoy, and leaving his country, was nevermore hoard of.Rob Roy devoted himself to the avo¬cation of a grazier; and as Highlandcattle about this time began to be ,iugreat request in England, Rob made*****mm10frequent journies for carryins on thkrafe. itWJieu M Greff„r S,?? ^, , Jv and GcitJy confirmed, as lair.i „f.imsjcrCstan, his friendship became vati'bou-s "ealtlT;Mv;nDonrs. At this tmie the politick:u<aoce between the families of M0p■'ai enmhv fVle ha,d «r0'vn in,° peno.*^stPh.:faourof1|iobK°^”to, P‘°w-e.ss, and daring spirit, reu-^ei‘ ,llmi a desirable auxiliary, or afarnnaable enemy. arMontrose, to gain the confidence andvecm e the friendship of M‘Gregor, made* pjoposal to enter into copartnerv withm the trade of cattle-dealing, ^ pla„_ ; ^ra.ic.i he readily acquiesced. Mon-7,"!? ‘tccordiiigly advanced Rob 1000■ iun-ks (about JOl. Sterling) who was al-ft'5 exlJec5eJ io ^joota similar sum, and{\ie PF,onU wer« to be divided. Argvfe;uso laboured to form an alliance withtvoo, hoping that, from his resolute bra.and local situation, he would ben source of constant annoyance to Mon-t*ose. Besides, he might suppose that‘to!) Roy had evinced a friendly dispo-vtion by assuming the name of Camp,‘►ed, that, ot M’Gregor being under pro-'y/.ption. But tbougii Rob bad chosea11this name in compliment to his mother,and in compliance with the law, he waacknowledged in the country, and by tmclan, under no other name than that oiM-Gregor. He therefore spurned theovertures of Argyle with indignation.Hob Roy, in carrying on business withthe Marquis of Montrose, was the ac¬tive manager. But a M‘Donald, an in¬fer io»» partner, on one occasion was in¬trusted with a large sum ot money,witnr/hich he made off. This greatly de¬ranged Rob’s aifairs, and he was unablecither to pay Montrose his money, or tosupport his own credit. Montrose act¬ed with uncommon 'seventy and harsh¬ness : he dissolved the copartnery, anilinsisted that Rob should transfer his prouerty in security of the claims^ he pre¬ferred. This proposition was tirmly re¬jected ; nor could the threats oi Mon¬trose’s factor alter his purpose. A law¬suit was entered against Rob, an4.hr■was ultimately compelled to give up, hislands in mortgage to Montrose, undercondition that they should again revertto himself when he could pay the debt.Rob Roy was extremely indignant atthe ungenerous conduct or Montrose.However, his mind was too strong to beweakened by misfortune j he'redoubled12tus exertions, ami was soon able to ten*tier the sum for which his estate washrki. But Montrose refused to deliverup his, property, pretending the amountgreatly increased, and that it wouldtake a considerable tinie to make outthe statement. In this equivoea! man-i»er the Marquis’s factor endeavoured toevade the lawful claims of an injuredman. Just at this time the revolutiontook place, and many of the chieftainswere arraying their followers to be iareadiness for acting in favour of thehouse of Stewart. Argyle attachedhinas.elf to the Prince of Orange; outnot having been restored to his proper¬ty, since the attainder and judicial mur*der of his father, he was hesitating inbis sentiments ; and, aware that Rob, int he event of .a war, would be a valuableauxiliary, he renewed his overtures tohim, and warmly solicited his assistance.The suspicious Montrose soon disco¬vered that a correspondence had com¬menced between M‘Gregor and -Argyle;and, eager for the destruction of a fa¬mily that had rivalled him in greatness,he wrote a letter to Rob Roy, in whichhe promised, that if he would go toTuliulurgh, and .give such infanaiaticu*as would convict Argyle of treasonable13. t r \practices, he woul$ both withdraw themortgage upon his property, and givehim a large sum of money. Rob Royreceived this infamous proposal with thelofty contempt and proud scorn of aM‘Gregor*, and, without deigning to* A chieftain of the ^‘Gregors, resting on hisfreehold in Gienorehy, had a eon wha h^d gone inthe shooting season, with a party pf young asso¬ciates, to the moors. They met with a young gen¬tleman nf the name of Lament ffom Gowel, who,attended by a servant, was going to Fort William,They all went to a public house that was in f aplace, and took a refreshment together: in la*Course of which a trifhog dispute aroae betweenLsinoSt ahi J'outig H;(3regor. Dirks were drawn,»ud, before friends could interfere, M'Gregor feH,9a or tally wounded. In the cc-'fusion I.amont es¬caped, and got securely to the house of .M'Gregor,which happened to be tjie first habitation that methis eye at the dawn of morning. The chieftainwas up, and standing at the door.—Save my life,said the stranger, ‘ for men are in pursuit of me toUke it away.'—‘ Whoever you are,’says M Gre-gor, ‘ beig you are sate.Lamont was but just brpygbt in, ar,d introducedto the family, when a loud demand was made at thpdoor if a stronger had entered the bPUQG. 4 ft*has,' ,f*ys M‘Gregor. 4 and what isyotir bpsinesf,witii him ?’—4 In a scufPe,’ yripd the pursuers, ‘ hefvas kiiied your son; deliver him up, tiiat we mayinstantly revenge tie deed.’ M'Gregor’s lady t)<4L.i» two dhughters filled the hpuee with their criesand lamentations.—- .Be quiet,’ says .the.qhh:f, withtoe tears atreeming fiopa his eyes, 4 ami letpo manpremate to teach the youth—for he has hTGte-( u )return an answer, forwarded it to Af-gyle, who soon took occasion to con¬front Montrose, with a charge of male¬volence. But Rob suffered severely forthis noble act, for Montrose, in revenge,procured an adjudicatien of his estate,and it was evicted for a sum very inade¬quate to its value.Puring this transaction, Rob Roy wasin England on business, and the expul¬sion of his family was conducted byror’s word and honour for his safety; and as Godhe shall be safe and secure whilst in my house.'To a little, the chieftain accompanied Lamont,with twelve men, under arms, to Inverary, andlanded him in safety on the other side of Lochfme,then took him by the hand, and thus addressedhim;—* Lament, now you arc safe:—no longercan I, or will I protect you ;—keep out of the way•f my clan.—May God forgive and bless you.’Tnis happened some time before the act of pro¬scription against the clan Gregor in 1633, when, t»the discredit »f justice, a weak government sacri-lif.ed a whole people for the enormities of a few.M‘Gregor lost his property, and was hunted forhis life, in consequence of this iniquitous act. H#took .shelter in the house of this very Lament,—uoted ibr h's urbanity, and his’deep contrition forthe misfortune of his younger ywavs ; and who, byevery act of kindness to. his venerable euest, andsome branches of his family, revered the provi¬dence which put it in his power to repay to thet'aiMi.y of his benefactor, in some measure, the ’.o«£be had occasioned them In the deatu of a son.15Graham of Killearn* under circum-•tancesof the utmost indignity and bar-^^n M‘Gregor returned, andheld his destitute family,, his soul wast,ed vvith rage, and he determined totake revenge on the authors of his mis-fortunes. His first act of hostility a-pmst Montrose was at a term, when hoMiew the tenantry of that nobleman^ ere to pay their rents. He and his mencalled upon them, and obliged them to£*ve him the money, for which, how-per he granted them acknowledge.,s’ f lat ^ w:fs received on accountor Montrose.t! iPrerA Cf “lpUlSi!t'”7 ma;lner hf',evie<1leL 2jr°M ‘he tenants fnr seve™‘banc ’ , n(J W^ntrose, conscious, per-IZ’of R 1henl'ad tate,1 undue advaii-Ihc m.!l, i0b r ' setnied t0 overlook^hen thp f U!Ul a sul3se(ll,ent occasion.at f hit na uW-aS co]Jectin!? his rentsKovtad t*1*0 in Stir,ingsllire. Itob«oy had given out some days before bvproclamation at the church door, that hehad Sone to Ireland; and the factor-he wouldTo war In n° •** {c'rruP^on in hisalufy.pi“cl(nXevcn,,;g- h0"iewt- Rob Roybou/h i ] m “ wootl in llle n«gh-hood» aild went himself; with his16piper playing before him, to the inn <4£hapfillafpch, whereIvillearn was, attf(led by aenerai, gen tie men of the vicini¬ty. Alarmed:^t the sound of the pipes,they started up to;disco*er ffon» whenceit proceeded j and Ki'learn, in greatconsternation, beheld Hob Roy «>p-ur<?aching the door.Uq hud finished his collection, but thjpRags were hastily thrown for conceal¬ment on a shelf. Rob Roy entered wit ithe usual salutation, and the factor atfirst Lad no suspicion of his final pur¬pose, as he laid down his sword, amipartook of the entertainment; afterwhich, he desired his piper to strike up3 tun'e. This was a signal to his men,yvhp in a few minutes surrounded ti>ebouse, and six of them entered the roomWith drawn swords, Rob Roy, laymghold of his sword, as rf about to goaway, asked the factor,.‘How he badcome on with his collection ?’ ‘ I havegot nothing,’ said luliearn, ‘1 have|iood will pot— „ - • .fairly with you by the book. R^ist-ince h^ifio useless, the oook was exhi¬bited, and according to it the moneyiti'WnWis gi^h op, for wM Ro!) Roy graa-t>d a r^'cftipt.Bat froiti the iinfaiUbVis treatment h^sfnmily had received frdm Kiilearh, RbS»Rhj -vriig feiolved to punish Kim, Mkyfl him imm'ediate'ld conveyed to kitit'ifid near the east‘end of Lodi Ret-tiii-ih, tio# rfenderid fathdiis as the sup.posed residence 6? Mr FJL-n, the Lad)}of the Lake.In this ikittl'd KTilfarh V’as cotiliiledlfor a cdnsiderabie tlnie; and, U'heh st tait liberty, received from Rob a priide'ntindmonition is to his future condiifct.Rob Roy staS always the ft lend andpfotcctor of the Weak and oppressed,■lire disorders Which prevailed in the nd-ticii, during the reign of Charles II be¬came still more dreadful on the acces¬sion of his brother Jame*, whose bigo-Wy permitted the most Odious crimept,'and authorised iuch cruelty as tlie mindshhddem ^ to contemplate. At thfesistene^ °f horror Rob had often beenpresent, whose soul burned with indig¬nation at their wickedness, regretting,that he was not vigorous enough towiish the bands of ihhumku WretchieSwho executed the bloodv commands dftoe kfi:g. After he had been ekpelJcdRom hi? esate lie Went to Carlisle, tc re-18cover a sum of money due to him. Re¬turning by Moffat, he fell in with a par¬ty of sofdiers hanging four peasants,whom they called fanatics. A youngwoman, who was also bound to the sametree* bewailed the fate of her father andbrother, two of those who suffered. Thedeadly work being completed, four ofthe soldiers seized the young woman,•tied her hands and feet, and were car¬rying her towards the river to drownher, regardless of her teais and entrea¬ties to save her. Our hero’s heart be¬ing wrung with sympathy, and shockedat such cruelty, ordered the perpetra¬tors to stop, and demanded ‘ why theytreated a helpless female with such bar¬barity ?’ The officer desired him to ‘ begone, otherwise he would experiencethe same treatment, for daring to inter¬rupt the king’s instructions ’ The mis¬creants were just about to toss the girlin the stream over a precipiece. Robbecame frantic with rage, sprung uponthe soldiers, and in an instant eight ofthem were struggling in the pool.The officer and the remaining ten men•were confounded and stood motionless.In this pause liob cut the cords thatbound the girl; and killed the officer atone stroke. The soldiers attacked him.19fcut he killed tvro of them, and the restfled to the town, leaving him master ofthe field, to the unspeakable joy of theyoung woman, and tiie great delight ofthe peasantry who stood around.Our hero now devoted himself to mi¬litary pursuits. He selected a body ofmen no less resolute than himself. Thesebold M‘Gregors entered into a bond ofunion which no hardship could tear a-*under, no contention overcome ; whilethe masterly discipline established byHob rendered them the terror of sur¬rounding counties. 'They mutually re¬cited the wrongs of their clan, and re¬newed the determination of taking ^proper revenge. While the warlike mu¬sic of the pipes animated their spirits,and inspired them with a courage almostirresistible.Tiie government now watched themotions of the Highland chiefs with ajealous eye, and thus they were obligedto communicate their sentiments re¬specting the exiled house of Stew'art inthe most secret and clandestine manner.'Their opinions were unanimous, and abond of faith and mutual support wassigned. I3y the negligence of a chief¬tain to whom the bond was intrusted, itfell into the hands of Captain WilliamCampbell of Glenlyon. WKen it waslluo'wn that a man of such inhuman fee*-jijrrs held this bond, those who signed ityrerc seriously alarmed, and various planswere suggested for recovering it. Kob■ftov, with the clans, had also affixed hisfiame ; but on his own account he re-carded neither the king nor Ira govern¬ment. He was, however, urged ny se¬veral chiefs to exert himself, and, itpossible, to recover the bond. lo.ac¬complish this, he w'ent to Fort Wnliamin disguise; and getting access to Capt.Campbell, who was his near relation, nediscovered that he had put the bond in¬to the possession of the governor, whowas determined to Forward it to the ri-YY Council. Rob learned the day onyikich it was to be sent off, took leaveand went bome. The dispatch was madeup b* Governor Hill, and sent from FortWilliam, escorted by an ensign’s com¬pany. On the third day’s march, Hoband”fifty of His men met the party mGlendochart, and demanded their dis¬patches- The officer refused ; but wastold by Ito> that he must either g vetheir lives and the (.dispatches togetrv-’,®r the disnatches alo ne. I he dispatcheswere given up; and Hob, having taken#ut the bond he wanted, begged the oi-21fieer would excuse the delay he had oc¬casioned, and wished hifiu a good jotoJViney. By this hold exploit many 4™df®saved their heatls/ and iortehare of thoirestates. n 'j: •The spirit of clanship, thodignity ^sumed by great chieftains, and the pro¬found .submission of their vassal, oftenproduced' the most iniquitous actions.Against such acts of violence, - thoughcy&rlooked by the government, Rob RoyM,‘Gregor mattfuRy and openly drew his-s;v?ord. ' .On the estate of Perth, a clansman ofRob Roy’s occupied a farm on lease;but the factor took occasion to break it,and the tenant was ordered to remove.Rob, hearing the story, went to Druu»>-mond Castle. On his arrival the firstperson he met was Blaiidrummond, tKefactor, whom he knocked down, withoututtering a word, and Walked on to thegate. Perth, who saw this from a win¬dow, came out and gave him a cordialwelcome.—‘ Perth, 1 want no shew ofhospitality ; I insist only to get back thetack of which my namesake has baeudeprived, otherwise I will let loose mylegions on your property.* Perth wasobliged to comply. The lease was re¬stored, and Rob sat down a^d :breafc*fasted with the Earl.***.<2%Graham of Killearn was factor on theestate of Montrose, and second cousinto that nobleman. Being in the con¬stant practice of distressing those ten¬ants who were in arrear, he was despisedin the country. He had once seques¬trated the goods and cattle of a poorwidow for arrears of rent; when Rob, * ^ > h e went to her,and gave her the 300 merks she owedat same time desiring her. when she paidit, to get a receipt. On the legal day,the officers appeared at the Widow’shouse to take away her effects. Shepaid their demand ; but Rob met them-made them surrender the money theyhad e.ytorted; gave them a good' drub¬bing, and an advice never again to actm tne same manner.Sometimes rhe rich procured a mort¬gage bond upon the property of hi*needy neighbour; and this was gene-rallv turned into an authority to seizetheir lands by force. Glengyle was un¬der a bond of this kind, when Rob Roy’*nephew succeeded to it. Rob. knowingwhat advantage would be taken of thecontract, gave his nephew the money,for the purpose of retrieving the bond.The period of redemption had onlv afew months to run; and, under pretence23that the bond could not be found, themoney was refused. Rob Roy at thistime having been otherwise engaged,the matter lay over, and the bomfwaiallowed to expire; when young Al‘Gre¬gor was ordered to remove himself, hisdependants, and cattle, in eight days.Kob Roy could not suffer such treat¬ment; and, assembling his fillies, tookthe chieftain prisoner, who, knowingKob s disposition, agreed to give up thebond when he got home. Rob, puttingno confidence in his promise, compelledhim to send for it, and give it up to himpresently.The incursions of our hero inducedMontrose to apply to the Privy Councillor protection; and obtained an act'which was expressed in terms ‘ to re¬press scorn ers, robbers, and broken mento raise hue and cry after them, to reco^ver the goods stolen, and to seize theirpersons.’This decree, though despised by Rob,made fnm more watchful of his foes.-But Montrose, under authority of theact pf council, called out a number ofhis people, beaded by a confidentialviraham, and accompanied by some mi¬litary sent them to lay hold of Rob Roy.he chanced to be absent when tfw24T,, , ’ I 4.. _ l-.'ru’. ' fliv’ ’jsli JsntCraJiams a!?sailetl hi? Juringnight. Having loarneci that Rob anulIns men' Vv-era at a pablic Jiouse in StrAth-iillan, he in the house, and they in anadjoining barn. The Grahams imme¬diately broke open the door. 'Rob was’instantly accoutred to meet them, and-levelled them man by man a? they ap¬proached, until his own lads, jpused, bythe noise, attacked the Grahams; in the<rear vtith such determination, that theyretreated, leaving behind tb‘en)|of their party sorely wounded; but j|f>^having refreshed his men with a glass ofwhisky, ascended the hill towards tirehead of Loch l.dmpnd.TINTS.