THE[No. 8.ctotSORROW-nq gnivari oi^onTswoifa js to HbI Qiii no I;noiJ eid oiotI ii odfij o}i^Joi/nc oldmobiBnoo oJ hur, rni«i-nofnsi aniod nO Jew oHt moil ii eviegeia oJHUitPiKadFjIJiN NY DOS8W hei^i*jbov'ieado '(lijiiw orf .heeoirxe f.fioH aid ^nivr.olBUNDLE OF MIRTH.hi§ £oi Ihei r8Yi:8 -joJiho rilnuoo A .xiinomCAHEFUX.I.Y REVTSXJpIoI loll ,I)e}{gXli oxlw ,<jX5f{o vlei i'J £ oi'oii nejUieBy JACOB SIDESPLITTER, Esq., , , i.’/.' :• c/LAUTHOR OF LAUGH AND GROW FAT, THERE S ,>.VESORROW HERE, JOHN,’ ‘DULL CJARE RANXSHED,1 &,(!■EDINBURGH :PRINTED & PUBLJiSIIED BY J. BRYDONE,SOUTH HANOVER STREET._ ,./.lmixTHE SORROW-DISPERSER.-A negro'liavfng purchased a hat was observedto take it from his head on the fall of a showerof rain, and to manifest considerable anxietyto preserve it from the wet. On being remon¬strated with for his supposed stupidity in thusleaving his head exposed, he wittily observed,‘ Hat belong to me—head belong to massa.’May is considered an unfortunate marryingmonth. A country editor says, that a girl wasasked, not long since, to unite herself in thesilken tie to a brisk chap, who named May inhis proposals. The lady tenderly hinted thatMay was an unlucky month for marrying.^ Well, make it June, then,’ honestly repliedthe swaiih, anxious to accommodate. Thedamsel paused a moment, hesitated, cast downher eyes, and said, with a blush—‘ Would?ntAprii:do as veil ?Cheating a Frosty Road.—On a cold frostymorning, an unfortunate spalpeen was late inhis attendance at school, when he was severelyreproved by his masther. ‘ Faith, sir,1 saidyoking Pat, ‘ it was no fault of mine at all atall. The road was so slippery, that every stepI took forward was two backward,1 ‘ Oh, youbig blackguard, how can that be ? If you hadwalked that fashion, you never could have gothere by any manes.1 ‘ No more I would, sir,and so I played the road a trick; I turned myback on the school, and made it believe I wasgoing home again.1The Difference.—‘ How do you like the coun¬try?1 said a lady to a little boy from the city,who was visiting sortie relatives in the country.THE SORROW- DIst’EliSER.‘ I like it very much,’ said the lad, ‘ becausehere we get cow’s milk, but at home we onlyget milkmen’s milk.’Loss of a Character.—The following anecdotewhich we give exactly as the fact occurred,may be considered as an illustration of simpli¬city and integrity. A respectable farmer ofRoss-shire, travelling a short distance on horse¬back, having occasion to cross the river Conan,found on the banks of the stream a youngwoman also desirous of getting across. Sheinformed the farmer that she was in quest of asituation, and had an excellent character fromher last place. As the river was high, thegood-natured farmer took the girl up behindhim on his horse, and conveyed her over thewater. Unfortunately, however, the written' certificate of character fell out of the youngwoman’s breast, where she had placed it for1 safety, and was carried off by the stream.!She was in great distress at this mishap, tillher kind conductor assured her that he wouldI give her a character; and this pledge he re¬deemed, on their arrival at a house on the op-i| posite side, in the following brief but pithyr words :—‘ 10th Sept. 1833. These certify thatI the bearer, Peggy MTCenzie, lost her charac-i ter this day, while crossing the river Conan)'l with me, Andrew Monro.’ We need hardlyi add, that this very equivocal statement was•j given in perfect good faith and sincerity- The! girl accepted it with many thanks, but wasi soon convinced that the honest farmer’s wordsil did not correspond with his intentions, andthat she required, what it is generally difficultto obtain, a new character.‘ Dear me, why does that bald gentleman4THE *OIlKO\V-M»SPlili!-jKIt.walk abrorul with his hat offT Why, becausehe wants a little fresh hau\ to be sure.An Irish tailor, making' a gentleman’s coatand vest too small, was ordered to take themhome and let them out. Some days after, thegentleman, inquiring for his garments, was toldby the ninth part of an Irishman, that theclothes happening to fit a countryman of his,he had let them out at a shilling per week.The Young Womans Consolation.—A villagepastor was examining his parishioners in theirCatechism. The first question in the Heidel-bergh Catechism is this—‘ What is thy onlyconsolation in life and death V A young girlto whom the pastor put this question laughed,and would not answer. The priest insisted.‘ Well, then,1 said she, at length, ‘ if I musttell you, it is the young shoemaker that livesin the Rue Agneaux.’Yy is a red-hot poker like a celebrated poet lBecause it Burns.A Pertinent Query.—Mrs W , notwith¬standing her professional powers, displays solittle knowledge on general subjects, as to haveobtained the sobriquet of ‘ the inspired simple¬ton.1 She had the misfortune to meet an acci¬dent in travelling, which accelerated her ac¬couchement, and she became the mother of aseven months1 child. She was weeping, andexclaimed that the infant would not live, whenMr W consoled her, by assuring her, thathis own grandfather was a seven months1 child.‘ Very likely, my dear,1 said the weeping beauty;‘ but did he live ?'It is said that her Majesty gives PrinceAlbert half a cfoicn by day, and a sovereign atnight.TIJF. S^IJONV-nj^PEltsiEE. 5A gontleinrin, waiting in t.ho ante-chamUeirat tin; Kxotor-Concert-Uuom, inquired of tin;attondant what was tin; nature of the perfor¬mances, adding, that he supposed they weremtscdlatwous ; to which the other immediatelyreplied, ; No, sir, I don’t think *7«ris here ; butthere’s Miss Holdaway and Miss George, andseveral other excellent singers.’1 Jim, how does the thermometer stand to¬day?’ ‘ Our’s stands on the mantpl-pieco, rightjjgimtl^ec|}tasi$rm-’ ,n f)9V.IQB(f0"*1fiw •//oT, ATeddy Maguire was a witness in a case asto the quality of oatmeal. Counsel wished tomake it appear that when bad oats were broughtto the mill for sale they were refused by thebuyer. ‘ Did you ever see Mr Murdock returnoats ?’ said Atherton. ‘ Yds, yer honour.’ ‘ Onwhat ground did he refuse them ?’ ‘ In the backyard!’ said Teddy.‘ A sweet return,’ exclaimed the husband,when his wife thx-evv the sugar basin at him.Why is a drunkard hesitating to sign thepledge like a sceptical Hindoo? Because ho isin doubt whether to give up the worship of thojug-or-jiotf. bwbii, »i aidT 1 rnL wjJ»Dr Samuel Johnson, when travelling in In-veriiess-shirc with Boswell, addressed a man atwork in a peat-moss. ‘ How far arc wo fromFort-William, friend ? 1 think we have beenderluting the last half hour.’ ‘ Like enough,’(replied the man,) ‘ but I’ve been dlooting herosin’ six o'clock this morning^' | bn4A Witty Bill-btickcr.—On a gate in the neigh¬bourhood of Horton, the broadsides have beenso judiciously arranged by tho bill-sticker, thatthe heads read in the following order -Bucks.Mr Stephenson will shortly .^ell by auction, in6 TiiE'scmkow-nisi’ERSEn.one lot—The Representatives of the County^—together with three Cows-in-Calf—Lord Chan-dos, Young, and Harcourt—The Malt Tax—The Nobility and Clergy—The Church—A goodgfpck of Tory humbug—and many other usefulr^fxieles. . ,"r"‘ * ’ffo \ A) •% ' >->,> f‘ My son, hold up your head, and tell me whowas the strongest man V ‘ Jonah.’’ ‘ Why so V‘ ’Cause the whale could not hold him after hegot him down.’A Jew was observed noticing very intentlya prodigious fine pork ham. ‘ What are yousaying to that ham, Master Jacobs T ‘ I wassaying to it, thou almost persuadest me to bea Christian.’ '*A New York pnper says, ‘ We once heard ofa facetious person, whose name was Jlfew, who"baptised his first child Something, as it was,Something New. His second was baptisedNdihinf it being Nothing New.’Two friends, who had not seen each otherfor a long time, meeting by chance, one askedthe other how he did. He said he was notvery well, and that he had got married sincehe saw him. ‘ This is good news, indeed,’ said*'Not so good neither,’ replied the other,‘ for I have married a shrew.’ ‘ That is bad,indeed,’ said the other. ‘ Not so bad neithei-,’said he, ‘ for I got two thousand pounds withher.’ ‘ That is well again,’ Said the other.* Not so well neither, for I laid it out in sheep,and they died of the rot.’ ‘ That was hard,indeed,’ said his friend. ‘ Not so hard neither,’said he, ‘ for I sold the skins for more moneythan the sheep cost.’ ‘ That made you amends,’said the other. ‘ Not so much amends neither,’said he, ‘ for I laid out my money in a house,titf. sonno'w-miiPFFSKn./and it was burned.1 ‘That was a great loss,indeed,’ said his friend. ‘ Nay, not great aloss neither, for my wife was burned in it.’Why are cowardly soldiers like butter? —When exposed to & fire they run.A wit being once very low in pocket, andmeeting with a lord, who was walking, thoughtto wheedle him out of a broad piece, and, com¬ing up to him, said, ‘ My lord, I had a strangedream last night, and now half of it is out ; forI dreamed that I met you here, and that you! gave me a broad piece,’ ‘ Well,’ said his lord-ship, ‘ I will make out the other part,’ and sogave it him, ‘But stay, now I think on it,give me that, for it is a piece my mistress gaveme to keep for herself.’ Scroggin readily re¬turned it in hopes of a better gratuity. ‘ Now.’i said my lord, ‘ I’ll tell you my dream, that it|i may be out likewise. I dreamed that I gave a! fool money, and he had not wit enough to keepij it;’ and so passed on, leaving Scroggin toscratch his ears, and fretting to be so cut-in witted. . n.; i v.- xThe Weight of Light.—’An old lady, remark¬able for the confused idea of the meaning ofWords, described a .clear summer evening thus :‘ It was a beautiful bright night; the moon. made everything as light as a cork!'‘ Boy, what is your name ?’ ‘ Robert, sir.’^ ‘ Yes, that is your Christian name ; but whatt is your other name ?’ ‘ Bob, sir.’A few evenings ago, Mr ——^ a magistrateat one of the police-offices, hired a cab for thepurpose of journeying a few miles out of town.‘ How much is the fare ?’ said his worship. ‘ Yy,’I said the cabman, ‘ as I’ve seed you afore, I shan’t; i charge no more nor a crown.’ ‘ That’s too much,8TTIR SOTinoAV-nlfiVnRSF.R.man,’ exclaimed Mr- , ‘ as yen’ll not be morethan an hour going.’ ‘Yell, now, and s’pose Idoes it in an hour, I ought to have vot 1 hax,and I’m sure yer vorship oughtn’t to grumble,for you fined me five bob t’other day, and vvar’n’tmore nor half a minute about it!’‘ How do you do, Mr Smith f ‘ Do whatf‘How do you find yourselfT ‘I never logomyself.’ ‘ How do you feel f ‘ Pretty smooth,1 guess—feel mo, and see.’ ‘ Good morning,Mr Smith.’ ‘ Good ! No, it’s rather a badone—it’s wet and nasty.’How did it happen ?—A remarkable pheno¬menon occurred a few days ago on the Brigh¬ton Bailway. A gentleman and lady wore sit¬ting opposite to each other, the lady having apiece of court-plaster on her lip. On emergingfrom one of the dark tunnels, marvellous to re¬late, the court-plaster was observed to havepassed over to the gentlemans lip iWhy is a man with his eyes shut like anilliterate schoolmaster ?—Because he keeps hispupils in darkness.A Sailors Notion.—A sailor, seeing some ofour domestic slave-traders driving colouredmen, women, and children, on board ship forNew Orleans market, shook his head and said,‘Jim, if the devil don’t catch them fellers, womight as well not have any devil.’A man boasting about his knowledge of theworld, when a wag in company asked him if hehad ever been in Algebra! ‘ I cannot exactlytell,’ says he, ‘ but I think I once passed it on „the coach.’Struggle for Precedence—Whon George Bar- irington, the celebrated pickpocket, was highconstable of Botany Bay, at a grand ball given .1THE SOKROW-DISPERSEB.«r+,'9by Governor Hunter, a dispute arose betweentwo ladies, who wished to take precedenceof each other. ‘ Ladies,’ said Barrington,‘ patience; I will just consult the NeicfjateCalendar^ and the lady that was first transportedshall take the highest place in the room.’ Therewas no occasion for George to consult his re¬gister ; every lady who heard him pressed tothe lowest seats, and the upper part of the roomwas left untenanted.A very modest lady, who was a passenger on1 board a packet-ship, it is said, sprang out ofij her berth and jumped overboard, on hearing•lithe captain, during the storm, order the crewto haul dozen the sheets.It is a historical fact, that Charles I. was. beheaded with his own consent. How wasthat l Because he was axed whether lie wouldJoW- '(rnquo/ig nov/ tafr ° 9 s . f‘ That may be a very good portrait of Boz,’J said one to another, while looking at one ofi the numerous engravings of the renownedDickens—‘ but what a curious nose it has ! Iti is turned askew.’ ‘ So it is—the artist cer-I tainly had not drawn a nose worthy the faceof the author of Oliver Twist !’ ‘ I don’tII know that—for the nose itself is decidedly all‘ of a twist.'' , ’ , j ,Why may Prince Albert be considered asaving and frugal personage^ Because he lagsby a sovereign every night.‘ Think there’s any danger, mister meanageo-ryman, for that Boy Contractor T, *0h no,’said the man, ‘ the sarpent don’t bite, he swal¬lows his wittals whole.’•Don’t be so talcing,' as the thief said whenthe officer arrested him.<■ftgo TflE SpRBO-'Y.-DISJ’ERSEK.A gentleman was at his banker’s, and ob¬served a little boy present a cheque at thecounter. The clerk put the usual question tohim—‘ How will you take it V to which the boyreplied, ‘ In my pocket, sir.’Half Price.—A witty Hibernian, just arrivedin London, and wandering about, perceived ablanket at a shop door, with this inscriptionon it, ‘ This superior blanket for half price.’Pat walked in, and demanded the price; ‘just5s., sir,’ replied the shopkeeper. ‘ By my sowle,and that’s chape enough !’ And so, foldingthe blanket up, and putting it under his ai;m, ihe laid down 2s. 6d., and was walking off. The jshopkeeper intercepted him, and demanded the |other 2s. 6d. ‘ Didn’t you say, you spalpeen, ithat the .price of the blanket was 5s, ? A|nL !sure, hav’n’t I given you the half of it? Andby that same token, I won’t give up my bargain.’ jA scuffle ensued, and Pat was taken to BowStreet; but when there, he pleaded his causeso ably, that the magistrates dismissed the com¬plaint, and advised the shopkeeper never againto ticket his goods at ‘ half-price?Why was Queen Victoria, before her mar¬riage, the most popular pomposer? Becauseher Overture to Prince Albert was known allover Europe.‘ Well, that beats me out,’ as the rye saidwhen the fellow hammered it over the headwith the flail.It was quite amusing, a day or two since, tosee a white man sawing a cord of wood, whilea black fellow stood looking'on, with his handsin his pockets, giving directions. The gentle¬man to whom the wood belonged just steppedup, and asked Pompey why the whito man wasTHE SORROW-DISPERSER. 11doing the work which he (the black) had bewiengaged to do ? ‘ ’Cause me hire him for wlejob,’ said Pompey. ‘ Ah ! and how much doion give him ?’ ‘ Four and sixpence:’ ‘ Howis that ? you are to have but four shillings,, theusual price.’ * Oh, nebber mind, it's imrt six¬pence to be gemman beetle while !' 'bid Y/‘ My bark is on the sea,’ as the cur-dog saitjwhen they threw him overboard. 'i liii ■> .{The Peers and the Pledge.—Thu Marquis, ofWaterford, Lord TlWwpark, Lord Rivers LordBrook, Lord Lake, the Marquis of Bath, andthe Duke of HW/ington, are meditating thepropriety of ‘ taking the pledge.’ The Eai'lof FitsWSflam, Lords Portland, Por^manpatidPor#arlington, Viscount Beerhwen, and LordAleshmy, shake their heads, and won’t haveanything to do with Father Mathew, noI.Cause of Cold.—A wag of a tailor in Balintorethinks it must be mighty cold (a regular Ame¬rican phrase) in Abingdon, ‘ for they have nothermometer there, and it gets as cold as itjhleisek. I ‘ hmbo od li ainobuia orit to onoA lady at sea, full of apprehension irt a gateof wind, cried out, among other petty exclama¬tions, ‘ We shall all go to the bottom ; irfercyon us, how my head swims !’—‘ Zounds, madam,never fear,’ said one of the sailors, ‘ yoh cannever go to the bottom while your heo,d swims'An Accident anticipated.—Amidst the* evolu¬tions of the Glasgow Volunteers one morningon the Green, Colonel Hunter was thrown fromhis horse. Being immediately sunounded bya crowd of sympathizing friends, who eagerlyinquired “ he was hurt, he very quickly allay¬ed their anxiety by crying, ‘ Oh, never middy Iwas coming off at any rate !’^ hid rtoq norff‘.oJJibIfl aaaaa'jH(A/0HH08 ant12 THE b'ORKOWVDISPKIiSEK.■fnod J).nrl (/lonTD onT^-m rlorxlV/ riow ori+ an.rnf)Chaps.—A pretty girl was lately complainingto a friend that she had a cold, and was sadlyplagued in her lips by chaps (cracks or clefts.)‘Friend,1 said Obadiah, ‘thee; should neversuffer the chaps to come near thy lips.1Which is unquestionably the most numerousprofession? Dye give it up? Why, dyers—•for all mankind cfe. rA Cheshire farmer w.^s lately asked by thominister how it was that, when he preached,the farmer always fell asleep, but when astranger preached, ho was all attention. Thefarmer replied, ‘ Why, sir, when ye preaches,I know aw’s right; but when a stranger comes,I canna trust him, and so I keeps a good look-aorakf hnn ,zhr a! liarfj aifaria fv-iud^kA young man of the name of Nech was re¬cently married to a Miss Heels; they arc now,therefore, tied Neck and Jink together. qq.A lecturer at one of the chemical schoolsattached to the University of Dublin askedone of the students if he could ‘ plate steel.1‘ No/ rei>lied the witty collegian, ‘ but I couldplate.1 i to bniw lo/•j A gentleman, who had an Irish servant, hav¬ing stopped at an inn several days, previous tohis departure, desired to have a bill, which be-.ing brought him, he found a large quantity ofport placed to his servant’s account, and ques¬tioned him about having so many bottles ofwine. ‘ Please, your honour, (cried Pat,) readhow many they charge to my account.1 Thogentleman began, ‘ One bottle port, one ditto,one ditto, one ditto.1-—‘.Stop, stop, (cried Pat,)they are cheating you ; I know I had some oftheir port but 1 did not taste a drop of theirditto.*the soimdAV-bisrEnsEft. 13One day during term time, as a solicitor, ofgentleman-like appearance, was passing nearncoln’s Inn, with his professional bag under! arm, he was accosted, by a Jew, with 4 Clowssell, sir, old clows V The lawyer, somewhatI tiled at this address, from a supposition thatipses mistook him for an inhabitant of Duke’sace, snatched a bundle of papers from hisg, and replied, 4 No, sir; they are all newi: its.1 - /].:i>;7,;Ki V’79‘ Itecollect, sir,’ said a tavern-keeper to antlenmn who was about leaving his housethout paying the ‘ reckoning,’ ‘ recollect, sir,you lose your purse, you didn’t pull it out.muesli l,/ A gentleman returned from India, inquiringif a person respecting their common acquaint-lice, who had been hanged after ho had leftngland, was told he was dead. ‘ Did ho con-hue in the grocery line ?' asked the former.)h, no,’ replied the other, 4 he was quite in ai'.fferent line when he died.’When does a schoolboy’s writing-book ro-iiiriblo the hero of Waterloo?-—When it’s aWell ink'd un (Wellington.)!:' Soon after Dr Johnson’s return from Scot-oiind to London, a Scottish lady, at whose housefl e was, as a compliment, ordered some liotch-dqtch for his dinner. After the Doctor hadiiist'ed it, she asked him if it was good ? Toi’hicll he replied, 4 Very good for hogs!' ‘Then,;t ray,’ said the lady, 4 allow me to help you to alittle more of it * . ^I Why is an Aunt letter than an Uncle ?—Doi l ou give it up ? If you follow the example oft ihe ani, you will never want the assistance of•i< my nncL /’ (the pawnbroker.)J4 T|IB SOUROW DJSl’ERSf.U.An Irish colonel of a volunteer corps, whad long been a confirmed bachelor, excitmuch pleasantry by haranguing his men, ‘ Gel!tlemen, wc are all assembled this day to defeour wives and our children.''An arch boy having taken notice of 1schoolmaster's often reading a chapter in tCorinthians, wherein is this sentence, 1 Vshall all be changed in the twinkling ofeye,’ privately erased the letter C in the wochanged. The next time, his master thus rea|it, ‘ We shall all be hanged in the twinkling «an eye.'A lady, some time back, at the Brit ifMuseum, asked if they had a shill of ulnCromwell. Being answered in tlie. ncga'tm‘ Dear me,’ said she, ‘ that’s very strange^ fothey hace one at O.iford.'1 f bfirf iAn Irish doctor advertises, that the daamay hear of him at a house in Liffey Streetwhere his blind patients may see him from IItil13* . Iboii) ori nod* w,^‘ Are you looking for any one ?n particular,as the rat said to the cat whening down his hole.In Warrington, a professional gentlemannamed Badley, has a sign-board which exhibithis name and calling in the following terms:—find Bones Badley Set.No Gentleman.—‘ You mustn’t smoke heresir,’ said a captain of a north river steam 'to a man who was smoking among the ladiesthe quarter-deck. ‘ Mustn’t—Eh \—whyonnot f replied he, opening his capacious mouthand allowing the smoke lazily to escape;‘‘Didn’t you see the sign—‘ All gentlemen arerequested not to smoke abaft the engine fIIIlllili.K1iVI'vil1 »i)dTHE SORKOW-pIS-PERSEit. 15^ Bleas your soul, that don’t meari me- I’mnot a gentleman, not a bit of it. You can’tmake a gentleman of me no how you fix it.’So saying, he sucked away, and ‘ took the re¬sponsibility.’‘ I’m losing flesh,’ as the butcher said whenhe saw a man robbing his cart.A jockey at the Maze races, England, askedan emigrant Yankee if they had any such re¬markably swift horses in America ? ‘ Swift !’said Jonathan ; ‘ why, I guess we have—I’veseen a horse at Balimore, on a sunny day, startagainst his own shadow, and beat a quarter ofa mile at the first heat !’* A specimen of the coloured race,' as the fel¬low said when he saw two negroes running.A Counterfeit.—A fellow pretending to be ina fit, was carried from the street, in New Or¬leans, into a grocery store and laid upon thecounter, where brandy was poured down histhroat, and he recovered. A wag, happeningto be present, said the fellow was a rogue, andthe fit was a counter-fit l‘ One bumper at parting,’ as the man saidwhen he ran against a post.A farmer, in the neighbourhood of Doncas¬ter, was lately accosted by his landlord thus—■‘ John, I intend to raise your rent.’ To whichJohn replied—‘ Sir, I am very much obligedto you, for I cannot raise it myself.’Twopenny Rope.—‘ And pray, Sam, what isthe twopenny rope?’ inquired Mr Pickwick.‘The twopenny rope! sir,’ replied Mr Weller.‘ It is just a cheap lodgin’ house, vere the bedsis twopence a night.’ ‘ What do you call abed a rope for?’ said Mr Pickwick. ‘Blessyour innocence, sir, that an’t it,’ replied, Sam.1 6 THE BORKO\V-DISPEH9EB.‘ Ven the lady and gen’lrrien as keeps the hot-elfirst begun business, they used to make the bedson the floor; but this wouldn’t do at no price,’cos, instead of taking a moderate twopenn’ortho’ sleep, the lodgers used to lie there half theday*. So now they has two ropes, ’bout sixfoot apart, and three from the floor, which goesright down the room ; and the beds are madeof slips of coarse sacking strctchod across ’erri.1‘ Well,’ said Mr Pickwick. ‘ Well,’ said MrWeller, ‘ the advantage o’ the plan is hobvious.At six O’clock every mornin’ they lets go theropes at one end, and down falls all the'lodgers.Consequence is, that being thoroughly waked,they get up very quietly and walk away.’-.Why are London femalesunhappy at threequarters past seven ? Because the mails leaveat eight. odt moilA sea-officer, who had lost his hand oy agrape-shot, was in company with a young lady,who remarked that it was a cruel ball which de¬prived him of his hand. ‘ A noble ball, madam,for it bore away the palm.’ '‘ Aint I a burster,’ as the boiler said to thesteam-boat captain, when it blew him sky high.‘Thou art false to me,’ as the man said tothe plank, which let him down into the water,as ho was about to step into a steam-boat. ’‘ My son,’ said an affectionate mother to herhopeful heir, who was in a short tiifle to bomarried, ‘ you are getting very thin.'1 1 Yes,mother,’ he replied, ‘ I am; and I expectshortly that you will see my n5.’‘ That’s smart,’ as the boy said when theschoolmaster administered the cane to him.• Come over the moon-light sea,’ as the smug¬gler said to sundry casks of Hollands.THE SORROW DISPEWSETl.17Zove at Si a hi.—A servant girl, of no strongintellect, who lived with a lady in the noigh-i hourhood of Paisley, one day .surprised her mis¬tress by giving up her pldced The lady inquir¬ed the cause, and found it was that fertilesource of dissension between mistress and maid¬servant—a lad. ‘ And who is that ladT in¬quired the mistress. ‘ Ou he's a nice lad—alad that sits in the kirk just forewent me.’!‘And when does he intend that you and hoshould be married T ‘ I dinna ken.’ ? 1 Areyou sure he intends to marry you at all T ‘ I> daur say he does, mem.’ ‘ Have you had much; of each other’s company V ‘ No yet.’ f Whendid you last converse with him ?’ ‘ ’Deed we! hae nao conversed ava yet.’ ‘ Then how should11 you suppose that he is going to marry you V‘ Ou,’ replied the simple girl, ‘ he’s been lang!| - lookin’ at me, and I think he’ll soon be speakin’.’i ‘ I’m in for a duck,' as the man said w’hen ho| fell into the river.A witty gentleman of Philadelphia observ¬ing a citizen, who had lost an arm, passing,said he presumed he might be called an off-handman.‘ I wonder how they make lucifer matches,said a young married lady to her husband,I about six weeks after they were married, andwith whom she could never agree, ‘ The ‘pro-Hcess is very simple,’ he replied ; ‘ I once madeone.’ ‘ Indeed ; and pray how did yon manageit f ‘ By going to church with you,’ .was thebrief and satisfactory explanation, trili von !Vy is an oyster like a celebrated poet ? Be¬cause its Shelly.‘ Faro reduced,’ as the man said who dihodon a single cracker.- ;THE SORHOW'-niSPEliSEH.1.8VDuring an examination of ii black serinin the Catechism, he was asked by the clerman what he was made of. ‘ Of mud, masiwas the reply. On being told that he shotisay—of dust,1 he answered, * No, massa, itdo—-it no tick together.1‘ What a horrible scrape I am in now,’the fish said to the woman who w’as rubbiidown his back with a knife.* Master liuggains, come up and tell me wlwas Cleopatra I1 ‘ Cleopatra was the sister tone of the Pyramids of Hegypt, and come ther unhappy eend by swnllerin1 of a wasp‘ Go6d boy, good boy ; you’ll be a Gibbon dniof these days.1‘ Friend of my sole,1 as the old boot said t(the cobbler.The following naive lover’s promise was of¬fered as an irresistible temptation to a filially-given inamorata :—‘ I like you,1 sighed thegirl to her suitor, ‘ but I can’t leave homeFin a widow’s only darling; no husband canever equal my parent in kindness.1 ‘ She iskind,1 pleaded the wooer; ‘but be my wife;we will live all together, and see if I don't heatyour mother !' rn ^.dt w»»d i ibnow I *An apotheoary, being with a large companyof his neighbours, boasted that a patient, whoImd been many months confined to his bed,under the care of another apothecary, was outin twentyvfour hours after he had begun to at¬tend him. ‘ Yes,1 replied a person present, ‘ Iknow that to be a fact; I met him yesterdaygoing to be buried.1‘ Pat,1 said a gent, to his servant, ‘ what’sall that noise in the street f ‘Oh, nothing,sir; they’re only forcing a man to turn volunteer':>STHE SbltROW-DlSPEHSER.19A j-dung lady asked a widow her opinion ofitrimony. ‘ Oh, madam,’ answered she, * itrbhld be a heavenly life, if the honeymoonould last always.’i'A justice of the peace, seeing a parson on atpy stately horse, riding between Highgatelid Hampstead; said to some gentlemen who•iere with him, ‘ Do you see what a beautifulthse that proud parson has got? I’ll banterm a little. Doctor,’ said he, ‘ you do notHow the example of your great Master, who'as humbly content to ride upon an ass.’I* Why, really, sir?’ replied the parson, ‘ theJi rlrtg has made so many asses justices, that anl idnest clergyman can hardly find one to ride,i f he had a mind to it.’1 A tailor sent his bill to a lawyer for money ;he lawyer bid the boy tell his master he wasflfot running away, but very busy at the time.fhe boy came again and told him he mustroeeds have the money. ‘ Did you tell yourliimister,’ said the lawyer, ‘ that 1 was not run-Enng away V ‘ O yes, sir,’ answered the boy,but be bade me give his compliments, and;ell you that he was.’The junior counsel, who opened the cause ofijOount D’Eon, concluded as follows :—and we• shall now call witnesses to prove-that he is she.H * A very agreeable lady of the name of Riggs,being last seasc^ at Margate, in a house with*: Six others, and only one gentleman to attend* them ;' when, on regretting that there were not1 .more of the male creation, says a sprightly1 lady, one of the party, ‘ if we complain of not:■ being well manned, I am sure we are wellrigged.’ n to jfbenjq ni tnofinv/aqA sailor, half-groggy, passing along the streetti lie so i; no w - ms i ■ i: it s eu .20of n covtain soa-i»ort town,'tliscovorod over radmirars door an escutcheon, and very narally took it for an alehouse. Tfic "entleiu:a ruddy-lookin" portly man, standing at fdoor, he clapped him on the shoulder, ‘ Hal ilandlord, you look like an honest fellow, gius a cup o’ the best.’ The gentleman, to cauon the joke, ordered his servant to bring hsome beer ; which being done, the jolly t idrank towards his master’s very good healtand inquired what wjis tp pay, which the oi|iLcer told him, he might settle the next time >|j'came that way. baflq&Y ’ aig ,vH*m ,v:f 7f I1An apothecary ordered his pupil to mix *some medicines for one of his patients, thengreat danger ; and, on his recovery, expatiatfat large on their virtues to the pupil, who oserved, that ho thought it by no means impwbable that the patient might have recovered :soon without their use. ‘ Impossible,’ said tlapothecary ; ‘ and pray what could encouragsuch an opinion,’ ‘ Why,’ replied the youuman, ‘ I forgot to send them.’A Cork Almanack informs its readers, thathe principal republics in Ecaoi’E are YenictHolland, and America. (foenuoo -loiniij, oiH’A person had his fortune told by an astreloger. After having, by the help of ambiguoulanguage, unfolded to this man tho. events ohis life, past, present, and,,future, then tlfsoothsayer asked for his usual gratuity. ‘ IIq"is it,’ said tho inquisitor, ‘ that you pretend tiknow hidden things, and aro ignorant of mjnot having a penny in my pocket f . j,lA girl of tlie tpyyn, in Dublin, walking thopavement in pursuit of her ‘ avocations,’ hadtho misfortune to be known by a watchman, toiTIJB flOKUOW-DISl’ERSEH.21i whom she had omitted to pay the ‘ usual tri¬butes,’ when the fellow immediately draggedher off to the watch-house, without any osten¬sible provocation. She was brought before*the. police magistrate next morning, when the noc-i turnal guardian charged her with the heinous! crime of walking in the streets the precedingnight. ‘ And your soul to the gallice, wouldyou have me walk on the house-tops f said she.An Hibernian, being asked if he liked salmon,i answered, ‘ Yes, pickled ; for,’ said he, ‘ if I go!to market and buy a bit of fresh salmon, it isso stale that it is not fit to be eat.’An Irish schoolmaster being asked what wasrt meant by the word ‘ fortification,’ instantly an-. swered, with the utmost confidence, ‘ two twen-tifications make a fortification.’An Irish officer, just returned from the WestIndies, was dining with l)r Harvey, and severalmedical men in Dublin. The conversation turn¬ed upon tropical climates; and the officer, whoseopinion was asked about that of the West In¬dies, said, ‘ It is an infernal place; and added,that if he had lived there until that day, hewould have been dead of the yellow fever twoyears ago.’ Another of the physicians, withoutobserving the bull, very gravely added, that‘the climate was certainly unwholesome, and thatgreat numbers died there.’ ‘ Very true,’ saidDr O’Donnel, ‘ but if you’ll tell me the countrywhere the people don’t die, I w ill go and endmy days there !’a A gentleman observing the common crier ofBristol unemployed, inquired the reason. ‘ Iv can’t cry to-day, sir, as my wife i$ just dead.’A member once remarked in the House ofU Commons, that the French were the most rest-22 THE SOItROW-DtSPERSER.. . . . *less nation in the universe; very shrewdly add¬ing, ‘ they will never be at peace till they areengaged in another war'The wife of an Irishman having been seizedwith severe pains, he immediately set aboutwriting a card for the doctor; but before send¬ing it off, the woman had so recovered that avisit from him was considered unnecessary, and,opening the card, wrote the following:—P.S. IYou will not require to come now, as she isquite better.A young fellow, not just so wise as Solomon’,eating Cheshire cheese full of mites one night 1at a tavern,—‘ Now,’ said he, ‘ I have done as |much as Samson, for I have slain my thousands, 1and ten thousands.’ ‘ Yes,’ answered one of 1the company, ‘ and with the same weapon too,the jaw-bone of an ass.1A prisoner being brought up to Bow Street,the following dialogue passed between him andthe sitting magistrate How do you livef‘ Pretty well, sir; generally a joint and puddingto dinner.1 ‘ I mean, sir, how do you get yourbread ? ‘ I beg your Worship’s pardon ; some¬times at the baker’s, and sometimes at the chand¬ler’s shop.1 ‘ You may be as witty as you please,sir; but I mean simply to ask you how do youdo f ‘ Tolerably well, I thank your Worship:I hope your Worship is well.1Three gentlemen being at a tavern, whosenames were More, Strange, and Wright, says thelast, ‘There is but one cuckold in company, andthat’s Strange' ‘ Yes,1 answered Strange, ‘hereis one More.' ‘ Ay,1 said More, ‘ that’s Wright.'An old schoolmaster, who usually heard hispupils once a-week through Watt’s ScriptureHistory, and afterwards asked them promiscu-THE SORROW-DISTERSEIt.23/ sly such questions as suggested themselves tos mind, one day desired a young urchin toH him who Jesse was ? when the boy brisklyIplied, ‘ The Flower of Dunblane, sir.’A sea-captain in this vicinity brought homei iable African, who had never before seen suchi thing as ice. One morning Sambo came inth a large piece, exclaiming—‘ 0, massa, see:\nat a big piece of glass me found.’ ‘ So you|ve,’replied thefacetiousmariner,‘but it’s wet;:ke it3it to the fire and dry it.’ Down went Sam-to the kitchen fire, but soon returned witheyes vastly dilated, and great astonishmentierwise depicted on his countenance, vocifer-ing, ‘Why, massa, such glass I neber did see;19 more I dries it, the more it grows wet.’iA dashing foreman to a Glasgow tailor, din-j in a mixed company, wished to impress thosetesent with the immense importance of his ser¬ies to his employer. ‘ Though I say it, thatrjould not say it,’ quoth snip, ‘ if it was not forttis, my master could not carry on his business.’I can very well behave you,’ said one of theirty; ‘ I never yet heard of a tailor who couldry on his business without his goose.’When the great fire took place in London, atleman remarked to his friend that it was0! consequence of gluttony ; and as a proof ofkI8 assertion, he stated, that it commenced at1 ye Corner and ended at Pudding Lane.IA gentleman of Cork ordered his man to callm up at six o’clock ; but he awoke him at. ur. Deing asked the reason, he replied—Is (me to tell you that you have two hours to;ep.A Frenchman meeting an English soldierth a Waterloo medal, began sneeringly toTHK aQttRO\V-DI8PER9ER.t»?;24animadvert on our government for bestowijisuch a trifle* which did not cost them thtfifrancs.’ ‘ That is true., to be sure,’ replied tihero, ‘ it did not cost the English governmtj; |three francs, but it cost the French a Napoleo' iAn American physician announces thathas changed his residence to the neighbourly |of the churchyard, which he hopes may proa convenience to his numerous patients. . , |‘ What is light f asked a schoolmaster of t|booby of a class. ‘ A sovereign that isn’t f|weight is light,’ was the prompt reply. IA forward young lady was walking one moiling on the Steyne, at Brighton, when she ftcountered a facetious frieod. ‘ You see, IjDebenham,’ said she, ‘ I am come out to geolittle sun and air.’ ‘ I think, madam, you h|better get a little husband first,’ was the repThere is a man so absent that he mistohis wife for a pair of bellows, and alleged Ithorough conviction of the illusion, by her ,ways blowing him up instead of the fire.Can you spell blind pig with two letter ;Why P G, to be sure; that’s a pig without II, isn’t it ?Zachariah Macaulay had a servant whompurchased at Sierra Leon. One morning,Cudjoe was lying in bed longer than usual, 1master called out to him, and asked him wl1he was about 1 ‘ I am doing some head wotmassa.’ ‘ Head work—what is that f askZachariah. ‘ Why, massa,’ continued Cudjj‘ suppose three crow on dat tree, and maifire, and kill one, how many left f ‘Two,course,’observed Zachariah. ‘ No, massa, vvredere,' replied Cudjoe, shewing his teeth, ‘other two fly away.’