T; H EFolly arid FafhklnOP THEPRESENT TIME.TO WHICH ABE ASDED,A TRIP TO BOTANY B AY*T H £ H A P P Y W K D D I N 6.'JACK. TAR’S RETURN,The Crtiel PARENTS DECEIVED;Or, the Happy Lovers Meeting.T H E W I L L O W \V I L L.- •THE MOMENT AURORA.Cltif^ow, Printed by J. & M. RobertfiTi, Sal ire at fet*The Fell) and Fiifhion of the prefeat Time.| ^Ome lifbin a while you need not tarry lon^, |V^v All ranks give attention as by me you tbronjr, fFhe truth you flia’l hear by the 'Jvords of a (dig.Of the rigs and rhymes on the times,in this rneft wonderful, wonder-Cul ag«Defrauding, delufion, and bilkingV tbe plan.The way of the world now is cheat as cheat can.And the far biggefi: rogue, Sir, is now the bell man, ;'Vljo can bounce and Sy, fwear, He, and deny,Tis the way now to thrive as tr.e world now goes. ('With confe fib n andbuible for money they ft live, |The rich would tievrmr the poer up alive.And cne neighbour don’t like another to thrive,!?or wrong c right they backbite, full of fpite,L.-ug'i in their fireve at their neighbour’s downfal. ■■Here is ^aiy Sc^uab virb her n oonify’d face,By b<r I’ll defervb.’. you this backbiting'race,VnoJ 'two'i'd piigjle z lawyer tht ir aclions to trace,To ftriGW yvur mitid how they twine, feem fo kirfd,\>t wou'd cut your throat'i f yep r back be but turn’d. .'Vhey’p? motlef ibcm gcfF.ps j.ith what news I pray ? \V.’liy can't yoy enrpe in, fio indeed a can't ftay,l^o’ to tattle and Hander th'e/il golTip all day,Tu dirty trim, out and in, drinking gin,Coinplain.cf bad hulcauds, Kut few of fuch wives.A new tea •driukingfalbion of late they’ve got in,Such an fxceiifcnt mode they think it no fin.To borrow tru-kettle?, to pawn them for gin,And fwear blac’Tswhhc, wronger right, tocorneby’t,Q: this tsa-drinkiug falbion good women beware.t; 3 3Since folly and fafhion’s fo dioue in the hnc,; IfereV^ho-iifands of tradesmen are all at 5 'Stand,'if ThoJ pride and prefumption go hand in hand,.! Man*- ?. one up and down, broke ami gone,i -The Lady’s ambition has ruin’d their trade./To offend the dear Ladies I’d not fay a word,Tho’ they’re flaves to the folly I think io absurd,{liy feentint; their clothes with Mufcovycatis turd,i! That the fumes of their plumes/flies in my brain,I Gives me the vapours when them I come neir.Their favourite lap dogs how delkioully fed,II Shock rides in the coach, foft velvet his bed,f: While av'.ungiy child,on the hard boards laysk^hf a tl Ai! the night; (hocking plight, take me right,1/ They value their animals more than a child*S'.'I he mrt is a beau, Sir Vanity Vain,I His finiff-uox is open each minute with palrj»(.To fill his'head fuller of fnuffrhan of brains,So mighty wife, and precife, what withPowder and hair you sen fcarce fee his coft.For lott’ry adtentufers here’s china com. pic a ^Silver table and tea-fpoobs, ail equipage neat.Off the bed to the pop-drops, away goes the (hefcta.Their luck to try, now they buy, a policy,| And dreaming all night of this tea-table prize.Such folly and linies in poor Britain was neveHere’s wit all in rags, and folly in feather,By Providence thus we’re all huddl'd together5So the life of man is but a fp^n. like anAir balloon, wender when loft in the air.A TRIP to BOTANY BA Y.COME, come my ! vds,’ for yve muff aweyUcund dewn ia irons to Botcnv Bvv v*t is of-no ufe to w?ep norjct to compl'aifi* JFax perhaps ve may fst Old England agsirv ,s C H O K S S,So come, come av/Sy, for i can no longer fr*?,Let us hvopc we may meet with a far better day,A!though'we are bound to a foreign clime,There’s many of us young iada juft in our prime,"Who by wrfriorn we ought 'ro’vc been better taught,Tor wifdoni’s ne’er good without it's' dear bought.So cotrL-j come away, for 1, etcNow many a pretty lafs in Botany may be feen,Who knows but the might be an Iniiian Q^uten,Deck’d out in diamonds, fee the Biififli fair,A fig for vphnfjJiirtation, little do w-c care.- So come, come away, for f, etc.Now when to Botany Biy we cfo cc re,The fir(l thing we do is to chlife us a King,'’Tis of no ule to Jaugh, nor yet to mal-efun,M'ho knows but it may be the noted Barrington.So come, come away, for i, etc.Barewcl my pretty girls. I’ll bid you adieu,It may be a long time befoce 1 fee you ,So till up the glafs, r.r.d chink it off 1 pray,vCCCcfs to the lads that’s bound to B. trny B*y.So come, come away, for I, etc.T HE HAPPY W ED DING.AS 1 was a walking cue morning in May,i heard a young damfe! io ffgh and to fay.My love’s gpne from nic, and fhown me foul play,JTwac down in tkemeador.- amengff the green hay.1' r < 3What mak^s mjr dtar Polly to f.gb £(cctwplaio.Did you think, love, I ne’er fhou?d return again,Nour to the ohurch let us with* fjieerf repair,• So neTer mind your father ir.y dea'Clt dear.My father is worth five thoufarfd a year,And I am his daughter, and his only t-t ir.Not a penny of portion he’ll gke me 1 fear,If I marry with you, O my ddrsft dear.They went to church & wcrr marry’d firaigjbtvray,And hotne to her {athe? the very net;? day,! Saying, Honoured father, f tell unto thee,That marty’d we two are, you plainly may fee^With that, the old man began for to fwear.You have marry’d my daughter, and my only care,But fince that you’re marry’d, I’ve goi a new fon.You are welcome, I fretiy foigive what is donCjYou young men and maids of every degree,Wed the mau you love, if you think he loves thee,For my father’s w«U pleas’d with hisgoodfen Si heir,. And fettl’d upon him one thoufand a year.JACK TAR’S R £ T U R N.NE night at ten o’clock as I a reading fatV> letters of old I receiv’d from my dear,Somebody at the door ljke.a jack Tar di,d roar,which drove my fienfes 1 cannot tell where.I rofe ct the thock,. I the door did unlock,, fuch a fine fight fare my eyej did behold,j Ti owfers as white as fnow,buckles down to thetoe,with a fialhy curl’d gee, his hat lac’d with gold.£ /> j |Then I did uand In viewjftrajgfrtin myarmshefie^v,gave me akif« far fleeter than rue^That he reviv’d fny heart, from, the deadly fmart,nothing, no netting, ttvy mind could bring" too.Then to delight aie more, flraightin rry aprdr. Cure, .he beg.irs to throw handfuls of echi.Saying...i’ll \ on deck \vi’agclichain\>eut yottfneek,for r’ve fail’d vr'nh R&dni’f of tourage fo b.-ld.Ceme €ach lad and lafs, drink ofF o flowing glafs,drimi a health to tje lads that are at fea ;God fencf them fafe heme, unto thtir native bome,(0{ whst comfort acd joy that will be<$&4Si&4-:gi££Tie CRUEL PAREN FS RECEIVED; Or, theHAPPY LUV'm MiiCriNG..AS f walk’d out p;>e morning totuflc the f.veetair,A darafil Uy deploring for the lofs of her dear,JMy love is gone and left me to figh and to moan,All joys are bereft me, O when will he return ?How crvvl were my parents to prove fo five re,It eaufes me to fgh and Ored many a tear;He new is forc’d from me to plough o;* the main, . <it runs in my mind I’ll ne’er fee him again.Ye gods above reflore him fafe to nr? again,The ioRpg of my jewel increafes my pain,Confin’d now in iiedlvn all for his dear fake,Y/ith gihi rrid vexation my heart it will break.But as file-was flg'ni’frg and tearing her ht.<r,O what fhould fhe near but t*.ic voice of her dear,With joy and with rapture fne flew to his arms,Saying, My dear creators has a million of chaiess.'• / JI Aliho* I ’.V33 forc’d to plcwigh the raging main,"With jc)' I’m returntii to you once again.With gold and with fif&r, to you 1111 refign.If you will c. .lent, my dear, to be mine.It was'your ciucl parents that forc’d me away,ii EU’o with you, fny jewel, I'd rather have flay’d.All in your fweet company, which I dr I'dore,| Alas! I was afraid I tic’er fhould fee ycq more.So now my. dear chormer, let’s no longer delay,! J?»iC npw to the church let us hade away,Where you and.Til join in love’s fweet content,, They ne’er flood ro parley, but to church they went.THE WILLOW WILL. '"! ,nrfa' willow you fay is a pretty flower,ujhich you have cav.fed me for to wearThee have l courted for many Ion?; hours,but all in vain it hath proved 1 fear.The willow you fay, etc.Falfe you have turned, tho’ now you complin,don’t you remember the garland you fent.The willow-will fram’d :,t,& falfe hearts adorn’d it,little once did I trvink of your inrent.FJfe have you turned etci pm the young man who foys he loves you,ready to, come and fpeak it l vow,The garland ysu fent, it don’t became me,tho’ you do ferce me to we-r it now.i am the young man, etc.On Mondav mern I am ready, to meet you,and to love’s alter lead you away ■,The ring I’ll get, the licence is ready,dear girl for thee I no longer can hay.On Monday iporn,, etc.I t?.ink every mome.'U ir is a long tiour,every hour as Jong as three.Until'the time my Lave dees appear,in the green bower for to meet ire.I think every moment, etc.My lore is dainty, tho’ falje hearts are plenty,my love fincere as when it was new,A*' k grows tiler it re’er fh'all grow colder,tier fade away like the t*r.rning dew.My love is dainty, etc.T id E M Q M E N r A U R O R A. *rT"' H E mosdeot Aurora neept into the room,I I put on pty clothes and I call’d for rr.y groom,Viili W’.j 'VIe by this h~i uncoupl’d tke uo,u.nd3.Who lively,and #tiet»l.efotn« frilk'd o’er the grounds-.The herfes are faddiv* fleet Dapple and Gray,Seem’d longing to hear the glad found, Hark away!»’ tVaa now hy the cl« < k about four in the morn,And we all galion’d olx to the found of the horn,. Dick Garter, Will Babble, and Torn at the Goofe,When all of a fudden out Harrs Miilfefs Pufs,Men, horfes, and dogs not a moment would Hay,- And echo was heard to cry, Hark ! hark away.The chace was a fine one, ihe took o’er the plain,Which flie dou< led, and doubled again,'J ill ar lait Ihe took covert, retuni’d out of breath,And I and Will Whiflie were in at the death ;There in triumph of joy l the bare did difplay,And call’d to the horn my boys, Hark ! hark away !<1 ’G L A S G O W,Printed by J. and M Rcbtrtfon, SaHmarket, tSo?.