A £X EVWitty and JZntcrtainingEXPLOITSOEGEORGE BUCHANAN,ICOMMONLY CALLED277-E XING’S FOOL.IN TWO PARTS.GLASGOW:Pubiifhed by J. Lumsden & Soh.1S22,Tin;WITTY EXPLOITSj • OFAir. George Buchanan.PAiirr.M, GEORGE DUCHAK AN wat a fc«man born, and tho* of rofan parentage, cisjgreat progref* in learning: as for Ins uncilanding and ready wit, be excelled all men tilalive ia the age, that ever propofed quettionslk'Ti. He was fervant or teacher to King Jantjthe Sixth, ard one of his privy coujaciilojlbut publicly afted as his fool.t. It happened otie day, th%a voting aim'.11hleman went into the King’s garden to p/.lflower for a young lady he fancied. George':lowed at a o’iflsnce ; fo, when the young, mfound a flower he fancied, he would nor pii’Kimfelf, hut, to find it again, without funfearch, he covered it with hit ha^, and w:away for his Iweeljicart. No fooncr \va* he gotbut up goes George, lifts his bat, and pull* t)flower ; then eufes himfe,’. on the fpot, covers'wi.h the hat again, and away he goes Sconter the young gentleman returned, leading 1fweetheart to puli the flower below the h:5 isas foon as lie lifted t}*e hat, and faw what vbiiow it, be locked like a fool \ and the lady, f,;pg in a paClen, fets ofF, and would never eouft-enancc him any more. The young gentleman,jeing fadly vexed at th's adVont given to him byIjieorge, lent him a challenge to fight him, su»iialining day and place where they were to meet,fifing to fight on horfeback, George, gets an oldiiciiF horfe, and, for harnefimg, cover*him aboutfith blown bladders, with {mall Hones in each,without either fword cr fpear ; and away to theeld lie goes, where the duel was appointed. Sodun George saw his enemy coming againfc! im, all in glittering armour, armed with {wordud fpear, he made up to him with all the fpeedis horfe could carry him ; when the fmall Hones\ the bladders made fuch a rattling noife, thatiie gentlemen’s fine gelding vyould not Hand theattle, but ran away, and threw his mafter t*»lie ground ; which eaufed all the fpewtators;ugh, aod fay, the gentleman was more foolipaa George. The gentleman being {'all moreor aged at this fecood affront, he would fightlith George on foot; but his friends perfuaded:im, that it wnuld be no honour for him toight, and kill the King's fool *, and far lefs trs*: killed by the {col. So they were advifedIpth to agree. But the gentlemau would trybother exploit with George, for to have it faklfs was Hill tbeclevereft man,-viz. To hold himajumpiog-bout publicly, the next day thereafter;•4/ith all my heart, (ays George, and we will end!and about where wc began, they not knowings meaning in thj?. The place and hour beingt, where they wen- to meet next morning,eorge, in the night time, caufcd a deep pitto be made, and the earth 6f it carried away}then filled it up with ducg from a privy,and c*1vered it over with a green turf, that it migl!not be known by the other ground. So, accorting to promife, they both rnet in the morning:gainft the appointed time. Now, George beinnthe oldefi: man, and by them counted thegreatei:fool, the young fpark permitted him to juoi tjfirft, whsch he, according ro order, did •, an 'fjumped within a foot of the place where thground was fahllied. The young man feeing thmade his performance vfith great airs, and ahis might, fo that he jumped afoot over Georgebut to his oxters among clean dung ! whereathe whole multitude of fpectators cried out withuzzas and laughter Now, fays George, I tolyou, we would end in and about where we bgan, and that is in clean dirt.On a time after this, the King and hiCourt was going into the country, and thewould have George to ride before them in th.fooi’s drefs ; whereunto he feemed unwillinbut it was the King’s plrafare. ho George w.mounted upon an old horfe, with a pair of olriven boots, the heel* hinging down, and a palmer coat, patched over with pictures of diverkinds. George rode before them in this poftunwhich caufed great laughter and diverfijn, unt' they came to an inn, where they alighted to dineand in \he time they were at dinner, Georg*went into the ftables, and with a knife cut a?their horfes chafts, not fo e, but fo as they miglvbleed. Now, as foen as dinner was over, an..3I itey iaaonted on their horfes ag^io, George tisl^| ing before them, as lifual, in his pa’uner ccatI and old boots, they began to make their gamew of him ; then George turning about fuddenly*i) and dapping his hands with a loud laughter,i the king alked him, vrhat made him laugh fo ?! Langh, fays George, how can I but laugh, wheni horfes cannot hold their peace ? ()’> my fosereign,:i| fays he, don't you fee how your horfes have renctheir ebafts laughing at my old boots !• then,i every man looking at his horlVs mouth, theyI were all in a rage againft George. . The king% caufed George to difmonnt directly, and charg¬ed him never to let him fee his face on linglhaground. Now George knowing that nothingcou'd reconcile the King at this time, he camdi away- to Scotland, and got made him a pairil of great boots, and put a quantity of Scoiifh| earth in each of them, and away he goes forLondon, to fee the king once more. He hearingl| the kin" and his court was to pafs thro’ a countryu town, George places himfelf up in an old window,,;atid lets up his bare aife to the king and hii<?court as they palled. The king being greatlyiamazed to fee fuch an unufual honour done toLhim, was curioui to know the performer : So ha!called unto him, defiring him to come down, 5cfinding it to be George, fir, fays the king, didnot I rharge ycu never to let me fee yc:ii* facetfagain ? True, my fovereign, fays George, for*which caufe 1 let you fe** my arle But, faysthoi King you was never to come on Et>glf{{i groundt'again. Neither I did, fays George, pm hr. god h<»'boots before the king, behold, my Sovercgu,6it i a!l Scot? eirtb I ftand upon. The Fung andhrs ioum being greatly diverted with this merryjokef Gecr^e was admitted again to the King’sla - our,3 After this there arof:' a debate betwixt theKing and the Queeu, about votes in the Parlia¬ment, as the King had two votes, the Queenwould have one, and v<ou!4 needs be a Parlia-menter, or ho peace without preferment Thismatter was committed to George, by the King:So it was agreed among the Parlkmenters, thatthe CWen fhould be admitted info Parliamentfot a day. Accordingly the cam?1, and was re-teived \vi‘h al! the hoaour and congratularionsilthat was due and becoming her high ftaiion abut. be lore any nutter of conftquence wasbrought to the botrd, George feated himlelhard by fhe Chie-n’s lea* : AU being fiknt, hrofe up very quickly, lifted one of his legs, andllet a loud fart, which f.*t the whole licuie a-[lutigWng ; wftereat the Queen was greatly of¬fended, and laid- Go, take the rocue and ivtnrlIftm. To which George aufwered, A fine Par-liamenter indeed, to hang a man for Tfinlefs infirmity, and thu’s a fart, t'he Q^se.n, beinrjenraged at the affront put on her firft appearanctin parliament, went off in a paliion, and nevewould countenance them mere Bur yet, to b-revenged on George, <he would rrv^r give thking reft, till he delivered George into her h:’.nd»|ithat be might be puniftiedat her piealhre; whicthe king accordingly commanded to be dsnqknowing that George would refeue himfelf biome intrigue or other.No sooner v/as he <d7, l?vered into her hand;, bat flic and her Maids of' i hionour pronounced his doom, which was asif follows: As,he had aftrontcd the Queen amongfo great an equipage, who ought to he honouredi in chief above all women in the nation, that r»eifliould be floned to cka'.h, by the hands of wo-iinen. Now the time being ccrne that he was todie, according to ti'eir appointment, he was ta¬ken into a.park, where a great number of wo¬men was waiting for him, with their aprons full,cd Itones, to fall upon him, and to put him todeath, according to the Queer's appointment.-George's ^•seb to bis Executioners.i • ■ /i| Here’s a female band, with bags of flohes,I To kill a man for rumple groans :t I’m clean of rapine, biodd and thefts,j Could i cottvvri ►.y laris to riffs ?1 bince I, the iirft, tor faring die,Clok up the place from whence they fly.!’ To commit my crime, 1 think, ye’ll fcatce,J If once yen do cork up your arfe.H And r.ow fioce women Itones do carry,i Men need not in tha world n.rry.i Judge if fuel] women be chnfte complete,1 With forty itones between their feet.I But flnee ’(is id ye will come on,< The greateit whore throw the fin^ ftene.rh;n he ended with thefe words, “The gresteffc■w8• TJvhore fhculd tbrcv/ the firft ftone,,< every eneput it to another to call the firit ftone ; butknowing they would attain tbs character of a'whore for fo doing, they all refufed till the dyinghour was paft, and theti he took a protefi: againftthem, and by that means he gained his life. Af¬ter this he was admitted to the Queen’., favourand prefenee, ft attended the coutt as formerly.4 About this time the French King, in orderto pick a quarrel with the court of Britain, lenta setter to the King, ddiring it to be read beforthe parliament, and the writing was as follows j“ VV ill l come ?—Will I come ?—Will l come 2«—Titii later being read before the king and hicourtiers, they ah concluded that the French]king de^gr-cd to invade England ; The re forthey ordered au answer to be wrote, upbraidinelhim with the breach of peace, and putting hi:rin r.-hsid of the latt treaty. The arifwer beinsread over before the king a *1 hi'< nob!e«, thej|all agreed ishat it fhoukl be lent oft': But Georg*)fiuihiig, and fhaking his head, cried out.Many men, many minds,Who knows what he defigns ?Then they aflced George wliat he thought thFreoch king meant by fu'h a letter ? To whicjhe aniwered, I suppefe he wants an invitaticto come over to dine with you, and then returlin a friendly manner ; but you are going tjcharge h<m with a breach of peace, befot e i:; h;|given any figoal of offence or war ; iiis letter9IPindeed dark and nayftical, but fend biiti an ?n-fA'er according to his queftion. Now, Georgebeing ordered to write the anfwer, it was asfollows, “ And ye come—And ye come—Andye come." fins being ftnt to the French king,he admired it beyond expreffion, laying, It was{ '.in aofwer more valiant and daring than he ex-i peered. So the enmity he intended was extin-guiilied and turned into love.f5. It happened once, that a malignant partyin Scotland fent up a great fpokcfman to thediking and Parliament, for the-fcclucing of thel|church •, George hearing of his coming,’went a-iliv/ay and met him on the bridge •, and the falu^ration that he gave him wat, tbe cutting off hisilhead, and throwing it over tiie bridge! He thenliran to the king with ali his might, and fell downbefore him, pleading mold heartily for a pardon;jpr without it he was a dead man. the king,nmoft fericusly afked *>ini what he had done nowi1To which he anfwered, He kad only thrqwn theScots biihop's hat over the bridge; which madsmhe king to laugh, to hear him afk pardon foriich a fma'l fault: Bu} he had no fooncr got theiiardon fealed by the king’s hand, than he laid,deed, tny Sovereign, i threw his hat over theidge, but his hejd was in it. O Geordy,teoniy, fays the king, thou wilt mver give o-er till thou be, hanged. /6 A Nobleaian in England agreed with theling, how to put a trick upon George, to tryjis manly courage, in fending him to a ctrtamTOp.:scc for a bng of money. On his way hom“,through S*. James, Park, they cauied a fturclyfellow to go and let npon him by' the way, andtake the money from him. The fellow beingarmed with fword and pidol, canie up briskly,and attacked George with thefe word*, You* Ur,deliver what money you have, or you are a deadman. To which George ar.fvvered, S:r, I havefome indeed, but his not my riwn, and thereforedo not like to part with it; lieverthslefs, Uncebeing determined as you arc, to exchange blowsfor it, pray do rae the favour to lire your piftolthrough the flap of my cloak, that the ownersmay lee I have been in danger of my' life before{.parted with it 5 which he accordingly did. Nofboner had he fired the pittol, than George whipsout his banner from below his cloak, snd withone ftrokc, cut off his right hand, wherein heheld his fword; fo that both his sword and thehand fell to the ground; but George lifted hishand, and carried it to the king. No fooner didhe come before them, but they afked him, fay¬ing, Well, George, did you fee any bedy 10trouble you by the v/.iy ? None, fatd he, but cuefellow who was going to take the money fromme ; but I made him give me his hand he wouldnot do the like ag-dn. You did ? fays the fel¬low’s neater. Yes, I did, lays George, 1st workhear witnefc, throwi g down the fellow’s handcn the table before them all.7. Now this laft exploit cf George’s caufelmany of the Eng’.ilh to hate him ; and amongthe. reft, a young nobleman fell a-joking ofm-■. Georg?, faying, lie ^ouid he as famous a cham-'i pion for Scotland as Sir William Wallace was.f Ay, ay, fays George, Wallace was a brave mani in his Line—True, indeed, fays the, young no-l Henum, buf when he canie to London, we did! him all manner of juftice, and, for honour of theI Scots, v-e have hi> effigy in the fliit-houie fo thisvery day And do yen not know the reafoo ofthat, fays George No, I dent, fays he Wed,I’il tell you, fays George, He was fuch a terrorto Engtiflimen, when he was alive, that the %ht'of his picture yet makes them befhit themfelves.I The Lnglifh took this anfwer as a-great affront,and forthwith caufed Wallace’s picture to be ta«;ktn out of all their Ihit boufes.8. A young Englifli girl falling io love witha Scotsman, petitioned him feveral times forjto marry her-, which he refufed. So, to be re-;i v^nged on him, fhe went to a Juftite, and fworea rape againfl him, which is death by the law.jQeorge hearing of this, went to the prifon where;!lthe young man wo*., and iiiftructed him how toClhrhavy before the Judge. So, in the time ef theitiial, George came in, while the Judge was cry-ling to the man, but never a word he coaid get’ h'iu cb anlwcr, to tell whether he was guilrr or| not After the Juftice had given him ovei fur<!>v.f and dumb, others fell a ihaufing jn his ears,but never a word he would fpeak. Then theJudge, perceiving George, called him, faying,George, do you know what is the matter with,this man ? Yes i do, very well, fays George.What is it ? fays the Judge, Why, fays George,12the wpinan made fuch a noife and crying whenJ?e was raviftiing her, it 1\a$ put the poor manquite deaf, [ airure you Is it l'o ? fays the Juftice.No, no, fays the woman, nay Lord Juftice, youmay believe me, I lay as mute as a lamb, andnever spoke a word all the time. Very well con-felted, laid the juftice, and you have fworn arape upon him ; Take the whore to prifon, andlet the poor man go about hii bufinefs, and fo itended.PARI JLC"1 EOPvGE happened one time to bs in com-TT pany 'with a biiliop, and so they fell to dif-j'lut> anent education, and he blanked the bifhopremarkably, and the bifhop himfelf owned he <was werfted—Then one of the company addrdT-ed Limfelf to him in thefe words, Ihou, Scot,j’&id he, flrould not have left thy country. For -what. ? fays he. Becanft thou haftcarried-ail thesvifcoiij that is in it thither with thee. No, no,lays he, the fhepht'rds in Scotland will difputewith any hilltop in London, and exceed themvery far io education The bilhops then took •this as an affront and feveril noblemen affirmed ..it to be as the Scot had ftsid •, beats were laid on »each ft-le, tind three cf the bilhops were ckofcn;it. and fent away to Scotland to difpute vritb theU Ikepherds, accompanied with fovrrai others, wiio' « were to bear witnefs of what they Ihouid hear■: pafs between th *1. Now, George knowingi which way they went, immediately took ano¬ther road, and was in Scotland before therrv,i I He then made an acquaintance with a fhepheidon the border, whole paliure lay by the way-fid e where the hi (hops were to pafs; and therehe mounted himfdf in a fliepherd’s d. ss: andwhen he faw the bifhops appear, he conveyedi; his fleck to the read fide, and tell a-chanting ati a Latin badad. When the hilltops canie up toSGeorge, one of them alked him, in French,what o’clock it was ? To which he anfwered,in Hebrew, It k direftly about the time of theTday it w’as yefterday at this time. Another a{ke<Jhim, in Grek, What countryman he was? Toi which he anfwered, in Fiemifh, If you knew thatyou would V as wife as myfclf. . A third afleed'ahim, in Dutch, Where was you educate ? 'Do,( which he anfweved, in Earle, Herding my lheep>;!between this and Lcchaber. This- they dettredihim to explain into Englifli, which he immedi-Iately did. Now, faid they one to another, weneed not proceed a';y further. What, laysGeorge, arc you butchers ! I ll fed you a fewlh-ep. To this they made no anUver, but v.entaway fhamefu'ly, and laid they believed vhe Sectshad been through all the nations m the worldfor their education, or the devil had taught them.Now, when George had ended this ditpiue withthe bilhops, he ftvipped off his fhepherC’s dref.',.. and up through LuglauU he goes, with ah th>;hafte imaginable, fo that he arrived at the placefrom whence they fet out, three days before thejudges, and went everv day asking if they werecome, fo that he m;ght not I fufpecfted. Asfoon a? they arrived, all that were concerned inrhe difputc, and many more, came crowding in,to hear what news from the bcottifli fhephercis,and to know what was done. No fooner hadthe three gentlemen declared what had paft be*tween the bifhops and theihepherds, whom theyfound on the Scots border, but the* old bifhopmade anfwer, And think you, faid he, that afnepherd could anfwer '.htfe queftions ? It hasbeen none clfe but the devil; for the Scots min-iflers themfelves could not do it; they arc butignorant of fuch mutters, a parcel of beardlefsboys. Then George thought it was time totake foeecli in hand. Web, nay Lord Bilhop,lays George, you call them a parcel of ignorant,beardld's boys. You have a great long beardyourfelf, my Lord liilhop and if grace werermafured by beards, ycu Bifhops and the goatswill have it all, and that will be quite averle toScripture. What, fays the biihop, are you a•Scot r Yes, fays George, I am a Scot. Well,fays the Biihop, and whas is the difference be*tween a Scot and a fot t Nothing at prefent,fays George, f. t the breaLkh of the table, therebeinor a table tktwixt the bifftep and George.So the biihop went oft in a high paflion, whilethe whole multitude were like to fplit their jawswith laughter.2. About this time th?re was an act eft Parlia*1$vnent lor the benefit of murderers, that any per-ibn who comniitieci murder, if they forleited!'Pre hundred merkr, whkh went under the namei k k; nboot, bccauie fo much of this fine went tohe murdered performs neaieft relations, a«. thepice of blood, the murderer get a remit Now,[ieorge knowing thin to be oontr try to Moles’i Laws, was very much g.-evtd to lee fo many■ burdens f-talrd with the king's hand for murder,rldmcfi: onr every week, it being fo ufua! for the| icing to fuhfcribe them, that he wouhf not read‘ jhem, nor enquire what they were ; fov whichi paufe George writes a rirlit to the crown, andtfewt it to the king to he fubferibed, which he•ja£hia!ly did, and never looking what it was, re-tk-urned it to George, No fooner had he receivedit, but he goes to the king, and told him. it wastime for him now to be fitting there; where-"at the king, greatly amazed, ftarted up; then) .George in a great ha fir, lets h’mfelf down inIthe king's chair forthwith, declaring hirnf-ifiMving, rjy:.3g# You who was king uaufi be myHfcol, for I am now the wife ft man The king,;»■, t!;is, was greatly offended, until George fiiew-l|ed him his seal & fuperfcriptioyt But, froru that; day forth, the king knew whar he fublcribed.13. The next pardon that came to be foaledby the king, was to a gentleman who had killed’two men before, and had gotten pardons for! them by money. This being the third, the kingwas very filent in looking over the petition;George fi andiug by, arijed the king what he wasgoing to fcai now ? To which he anfwered. It :si6a remit for a man who has killed three men ntjfiridry times, I gave him tw remits before. O!fays George, he has killed but one mar. And.who killed the other tr/o ? fays the king. Youjdid, fays Georgs ; for if you had given him juf-tice, when he killed the firif, he had killed nomere. When the king hsard thefe words, hethrew down the pen, aad declared, that fuch anaft, to five a murderer, fhould be null ever afterby him4. One day, George having no money, he goesavay, and gets a pick and a fpade, and then fall*a-digging at a corner of the kingh palace; whichthe king perceiving from his window, calls whathe was wanting there ? Are you going to under¬mine my boufe, and make it fall ? No, my feve-reign, said George; but it is verily reported, thatthere is plenty or money about this heufs, aridwhere can it be ? il-ys Gecrge, I cannot find it;for i: is not within the house to do me fervicc;then furely it umft be b low it. O George, faysthe kin;;, that is a crave after the new fafhion ;what money y u want I’ll order i* for you. Then,my favercign, fays George, I’ll dig no more.5. One time, George being in the country,he came to an »rn; where he alighted to refre/hh'.mfeif and h:s i.orle t he innkeeper chargedhim double price for every thing he called for —George never grumbled at this, but gave him allhi$ demands, and away he goes on his j.iurney.At the inn where he quartered the followingflight, he was ijfed after the fame wantier, if notiV/orfe. Haviiig little farther to go, he returnedi next day, and cartie that night to the iun wherei he refrefhed hirafdf the day before. So whenhe alighted, the boy afked him what he wouldgive his horfe ? What you will, fays he. Whenhe had gone to his room, the waiter enquiredwhat he would have to drink ? What you will,fays he. The mailer of the inn came into hisI room before fupper, and enquired what he wouldhave for fupper ? What you wilf landlord, fays|he ratter fupper, and a hearty bowl, to put allover, he went to bed On the morrow he rohivery early, and called foi* the boy to make readyjlhis horfe in all hail*-, for he was defigned toiimoimt and go direcliy. Soon after, he went in-i|tn the fiable where the boy was, callirg for hishorfe, when he mounted with all the fpeed he'[could, & gave the boy a piece of money, faying,rHere, my boy, this is for taking care of my fcorie;1 have paid for all I called for in the house ; andfltiff'he goes. About mid-day he alighted again:|at an inn, to refrelh himielf and his horfe, andi| there he chanced to be in company with his otherJLandlord, where he was the night before, andIjchar: ed him with the double reckoning; So he> add re fled himfelf to him in the following manner,i{Sir, fays he, I do believe l wa.« in your houfei| yeflernight ? O ye*, Sir. fays he, T mind of yoiii| pretty well. And where was you hit night ? —j La ft night! fays George, l was in one of the finefiinns and the civildl landlord 1 ever h i in myhfe ; they brought all things I flood in need ofi unto me, without calling lor them ; and when Icame off this morning, they charged me nothing,ahd I paid obthing but fixpeuci to the boy fordrefling my horfe.—Blood and wounds 1 fakl theold fellow : then I’ll go there this night—Ay,lays Geooge, do ; and mind this. When they afkyou what you will have for ycnrfelf and yourhorfe, a’nfc.er nothing but What vou will, Sir —George full’d within himfej’f, to think how keBid got the one extortioner to rake amends oft-he other—So this innkeeper let off on hisjour-irey, and rode fo late that night, that he mightreach the cheap inn, that molT of the people weregon; to bed before he arrived.—As toon as hedemounted from his horfe, the Loy enquired athim, What {hall I give your horfe', Mailer? Towinch be anfwered. What • ou wiil, boy.—Thehoy hearing this, runs away, (leaving him andhis horfe to Band at the door) up Bairs to hismffier’s room, crying, Mailer, mailer. What yewill is come again ! O, the, rogue,'cries he,where is hr ?—I’ll cane him, I5!! what you wiilhim, by and by .'—And to him he runs with hisone, licks and kicks him until he was fcarceable to mount his horfe, and would give him noentertainment there; which caufcd him to ridethe whole of a cold winter night, after he hadgot his bones all beat and bruiled.-—So the or.-?,purfued the other as a murderer ; and his defencewasf Tiiat he was a cheat, and a fcojner of hishoufe, until the truth was found out.6. About this time the French king Tent, anddemanded from the king of England; three menof different qualities. -The firft was to be aIJ9nd the third, a very great fool; lb that he might,rhave none in all France to match them.—;—So,accordingly, there were two men chofen; thei one a hrong man, and the ether avery wife man,! ;but Geerge was to aft as a fool ; neverthdefs hewas the teacher of the other two. On theirway to France. George aficed the firong man,1 Whst \vii» you anfwer the French king, whenhe alks if you be a hr,eng man? V.rhy, fays he.I'll fay I am.-— rhen, fays George, he'll pofiiblyl Iget a Stronger man than you, who may kill you,. land anront your country What Shall I fay'.then ? faid the Strong man.—Why, lays George,liell him you are fiiong enough untried.—Tiieafays he to the wile m?.ny And what will you Sayco the king when he afkr if you are a wife in.-n ?i Why, i'il tell him Fain, aud anfwer him ill the*1ipiteAions I know —Very well, fays George ; butjP’feat if |-<e a-k you what you do not know? thenyon’ll affront your country, and be looked uponps c greater fool than me.—Well, what find! Itlanfwer then ; faid the wife man —Why, lavsGeorge, tell him. Ke is only a wife man that canlake cave of himfdf; and I fhal! come in after■ you, and take care of you all together.—Asfoonas t: ey arrived at the kirg of France’s palace,ing fent for them, to try them. The lb-bug(man was- firll csl'ed for, and in he went; ThenIthe king afttecl .him if be war a flrcug matt ? Towhich he Enfwercci, O King ! f am ffrong enoughuntried. Very well, fatd the king. After hun(b.e wile mm was called ; and the k'ng afk'd h’ri.the was a wife man ? To which he ajafwer’d.He ir only ■„ wife man that can take care of him**10Very well, fays the king T-—On whic!George puflied up the door, and in he went witloud laughter, and pifs'd directly in his Majeflyface, which blinded both his eyes, and put tlrwhole court in amaze ! Now, now, faid his majefly, it ir true enough the wife man fays, for ii had taken care of myfelf, 1 need nor have heeipifs’d upon by the Epglifh fool O ho, fayGeorge, fecl> always ftrive to make fools ofthers, but wife men make fools of themfelveijBy tlvs, his majefty feemed to think he was mailthe greatelf fcol, and charged them forthwith tigo home, for he wanted no more offirength, wifdom, or folly.lingland’l7 One night a Highland Drover chanced t<have *i drinking bout with • Englifh Captaiicf a fhip, and at bft they can e to be very heart'over their cups, fo that they called in th'ir fei"Vants to luve a fTnre of their liquor. The droiver’s fervant looked like a wild man, going withiout breeches, dockings, cr fhoe% not lb oiuui aa bonnet on his head, with a long peel’d runjin his hand, t The captain alked the drover, hovlong it was fince he catched him? He anfweredlJr is about two years lince l hauled him out athe fta with a net, and afterwards he ran int*the mountains, where I catched him with a padof hounds. The captain believed it was fo Butf y$ he, 1 have a fervant the belt fwimmer in rh*world; O but, l.ys the drover, my lervant willfwirn him to death No, he will not, fays th*captain, I’ll lay two hundred crowns on it. Thenfays the drover, 1 hlod it one to one, and ftakec21directly, the day being appointed when trial was: o be made. Now, the drbver, when he came toi bin/rdf, thinking on what a bargain he had made,did not know what to do, knowing very welliiihat his fervant could fwim none. He hearing| if George being in town, who was always a goodjfriead to .'Scotsmen, he went unto him and toldi iim the whole ftory, :nd that he would be en-irely broke, and durft never return home to hisi wn country, for he was fur^ to lofe it. Theni lieorge called the drover and his man afide, andt fiflrucded them how to behave fo as they hiould1 e fafe and gsin too. So, accordingly, they mett the place appointed, i he captain’s man fiript. ireftly, and threw hiiufelf into the fei, takingi\ turn until the Highlamlman was nadv, for the; irover took fome time to put his fervaut in or-, icr. After he was firipped, his mailer took histidaid, and rolled a kebbuck of cheefe, a big loaf,md a bottle of gin in it, and this he bound on;is (houlders, giving him direction to tell hisildfe and children tint he was well; and to be. ire he returned with an anfwer againft that days’enight. As he went into the lea, he lookedhack to his mailer, 2nd called out to him for hisiiaymorr. And what waits he for now? fays themptatn’s fervant. He wants his fword, fays hisnailer. His Hvord, fays the fellow; What is hein do with a fword ? 'Vhy, fays h:s mailer, if hejiaeets a whale or a monllrous beail; it is to dc-send his life; l know he will have to fight his way.m/thenorth fcas. ere hego toLochaber. Thenvied the captain’s fervant, I’ll fwim none withBin, if he cajkes his fword. Ay, but, fays his2 2mafler, you Hisll or lofe the wa^er; take y|another fword wrth you. No, fays the fello'•,never d’ul fwim with a Uvord, nor any man ^ Jthat ever 1 faw or heard of •, I know not but tlwiid man wilt kill me in the deepwater; I woulnot, for the whole world, venture xnvfelf vijlhim and a Iword. The contain feeing his fervaafraid to venture, or, if he did he would nevjfee him agam alive; therefore he dtured an [greement with the drover, who at firft ftemjunwilling ; but the captain putting it in his wifthe drover quit him for half the font. Thiscame to thro' George's advlct8 George was met one day by three bifhojwho pud him the following compliments; Sithe fir ft. Good-morrow, father Abraham ; Ssthe fccond. Good-morrow, father liaac ; feystthird. Good-morrow, father Jacob. To whihe replied, ! am neither father Abraham, fatkIfaac, nor father Jacob but I am Saul, the tof Kifh, fent out to feek my father’s affes, alo 1 I have fpund three of them Which anlwfully convinced the biiimps that they had antaken their man.9 A poor Scotfman dined one day at a pubhoufe in London upon egg*, and not having in!ney to pay, got credit till he fhould return. Tl]man being lucky in trade, acquired vaft riche:and after fome years happeningto pafs that w-acalled at the houfe where he was owing the tiiver of eggs. Having called for the innkeeper, 1afked hiai what he had to pay for the dtnoer23bh* got from him fijch a time? The lindlordseeing him now rich, gave him a bill of (everaljpouuJs j telling him, as his reafon for fo extra-ivigan't a charge, that thefe eggs, had they beenhatched, would have been chickens ; and thefe(laying more eggs, would have been more chick-kens: and fo or, multiplying the eggs and theirproduct, ti:i fuch time as their value amountedo the fum charged. 1’he man refuting to complykvh his demand, was charged before a judge,fie then made his cafe known to George, histOuntrynnn, who promifed to appear in the iioufe<i c:iulc ; whichIte accordingly did, all in a fwear,»’ith a great bafeet of boil’d peafe ! Whicu ap-*j'-arauce furprifed the judge-, who aiked himrhat he meant by theie boiled peafe? fays George,, am goirii' to low them. When will thevgrow?jlr C3 O _ ^ s tjaid the judge, They will grow, faicl George,'hen fodden epgs grow chickens. Which an-jver ccnv.incecl the judge ot .the extravagancerthe innkeeper's demand, and the Scotsmanus aflYi’med for twopence halfpenny.j| George being now far advanced in years, andring weary of the great fatigue and lody of thestun falhions, a ihort time before his death, hekd a great defire to vifit his native country, &, e place of his nativity ; Therefore he petition-i ti\c king for permitlion to do fo, which washa a ted. So he fet cut for Scotland, and went,|i the pari fir of Buchanan, in Dunbartonlhire,Uiere he vifi ed a l his relation-; and friends.—: Jtit George ftaying longer from Court than the|se allowed, th^ king fent him ftveral ipeiTagee1to return, to which he returned no anfwer. Afoft the king Tent him a letter, threatening, thaif he did not appear before him in the fpace c20 days, he would fend his Lyon Heralds fohim : to which George returned the followinganfiver,My honoured Liege,and fovereign King,Of your boafting great I dread nothing :On your feud and favour I'll fairly venture; !Or that day I’ll be where few Kings enter., |And alfo gave him many good admonitions an,directions concerning the government of hkingdom, and the well-being of his foul; whicidrew tears from the king’s eyes when he read r'•JiFINIS.J. Neilfon, pripter.