><y3itiy$$|I'ii|SHORT ACCOUNTOF THEontGIN AND PROGRESSOF THECHOLERA MORBUS,PARTICULARLY ITS RAVAGES INDUMFRIES,In September, October, and November, 1832.-r.BY A CITIZEN.&ftftftftftftftft§ftftft¥**•ftftfttr"uftftftftftftftftftDUMFRIES:%T>. HALLIDAY PRINTER AND BOOKSELLER.^ftftft$1833.The following pages bring together some‘shortmemorials of the late awful visitation, from its firstorigin in India to the present time, particularly itravages in our own town, from various authoritienot of easy access to the public.—Some may thinkthat the less that is said on this subject the better,as bringing to our recollection gloomy days, andexciting the feelings of many who have been doprived of dear relatives. To such we would say,that we must not view the designs of Providencefulfilled merely on those who fell in the late cala¬mity ; the most important consequences are yet fu¬ture ; the improvement we make will either raiseor lower the moral standing of every one of us.God has sent the pestilence among us, which liascarried upwards of fifty millions of the human fa¬mily, and hundreds of our neighbourhood, to thegrave; and He is now looking on to see the moraleffects it will have upon survivors; and our improve¬ment may be counted doubtful if we are averse tohave our attention turned to the subject. Wehave now time to reflect on what we have suffered ;and we ought to give thanks to the God of Pro¬vidence, that the pestilence is now so generallyabated. And happy wotdd it be, if this chargecould not be brought against us—They soon for¬got His works.Dumfries, March -30. 1333.-ORIGIN AND PROGRESS, &c.VSpasmodic Cholera is a disease of modern origin. It wasarly in tfie year 1818, that accounts were brought to thiscountry of a new and dreadful disorder that had appeared in.India, by which some died almost instantaneously, and otherswere carried off in a few hours. It is said to have broke outffrst in August 1817, at Jessore near Calcutta; and, in thecourse of a few weeks, 10,000 persons fell victims. The in¬habitants, astonished and terrified, fled in crou ds to the coun¬try, to escape impending death.It next attacked the poor of Calcutta, and before the endof September, it spread throughout and beyond the provinceof Bengal. Pursuing the course of the Ganges, it reachedthe interior of the country, and, on November 6, infected the-grand army then stationed at Bundelcund, under the com¬mand of the Marquis of Hastings. No less than 5000 menperished between the 15th aiftl 20th November, and in all,9000 persons died. In March following, 10,000 IndiansWere cut off in the town of Banda and its environs, and Ilut-ta, Saugur, &c. were proportionately afflicted. In Kotahalone, 100 persons perished daily for so long a time, that thecity was at length abandoned by the inhabitants.■ In the montli of March, 1818, it broke out at Allahabad,find removed in a few months 10,000 persons; and proceed¬ing still in a north-westerly direction, visited Cawnpore, Del¬hi, &c. In April and May following it reached the middleprovinces of Hindostan. Lucknow and Fyzabad sufferedgreatly, and in Goruckpore 30,000 persons perished! It iscalculated that in India the amazing number of twenty-mil¬lions have been removed into an eternal world by this awfullydestructive scourge.The Cholera prevailed at Madras in October, 1818. Itraged with great severity in December following at Candy,the capital of Ceylon. At the end of November, 1819, itvisited the island of Mauritius, shortly after the arriral of thaTopuze frigate. ’n4From the Delta of the Ganges, it extended itself in a fewmonths after its first, irruption, along the eastern coast of theGulf of- Bengal, and from Arracan, which it entered in 181;),it proceeded gradually to the Peninsula of Malacca. Fortythousand persons perished -at Bankok,. the capital of Siam.1823, the Birman empire was attacked, as were also after¬wards Sumatra and the Philipine Islands.In Muscat, a sea-port at the extremity of the ArabianPeninsula, and the most frequented harbour for the traffic ofBombay, the Cholera broke out in July, 1821, and soon ex¬terminated 10,000 persons. In August following it had pernetrated the Persian Gulf, and along the Arabian shore.Here its desolation was excessive.,The port of Bendar Abassi, the key to the interior of Per¬sia, was invaded by the Cholera, July, 1821, and one-sixthpart of the inhabitants were its victims. At Shiraz it destroy¬ed one-eighth of the population, and proceeding northward,visited Ispahan. Having reached Taurus it extended toArmenia,From this period till 1823, the disease infected the placesnorth of Persia, and in September, 1823, it entered Astraeh-an, on the north of the Caspian. The Russian fleet was firstinfected, and out of 218 persons, 144 died!The progress of this epidemic into Syria and Mesopota¬mia is marked by increased calamity. At Bassorah 18,000persons were swept away in eleven days! and at Bagdad,one-third of the people perished! After visiting many otherplaces, it reached Aleppo in November, 1822, and for threedays destroyed 300 daily. In June following it extended toLatachia and Antioch, and thence to Tripoli and Suedia.The following affecting circumstance, related by Mr. Barker,the British consul, will convey some idea of its violence•‘‘ Twenty peasants of Suedia, robust, vigorous, and in theflower of life, were labouring at the harvest work, when, onJuly 9, at noon, one was suddenly attacked, and the others,in a short time, showed symptoms of the disorder. In threefours the entire band was exhausted $• before sunset many badceased to live, and by the return of the following day, therewere no survivors !!”During the year 1823, in the short period of seven months,the Cholera had continued its ravages from Caramania to India; and in the winter of the following year it attacked thetown of Tiberias. Towards the end of 1830, this destructivepestilence appeared in the Russo-Asiatic provinces of Schir-van and Bakou, whence it spread to Tiflis, the eapitjl ofGeorgia, and, as it is supposed, to Astraclian, July '20, 1830,by means of a brig from Bakou, of the crew of which eighthad died from Cholera on the passage. After visiting manyTartar villages in the neighbourhood, it proceeded throughthe Cossack stations on the highway to Moscow ; and on the25th of July, began in Krasnojar, twenty miles from Astrach-an: it f nally extended down to the Cossack cordon. It iscomputed that in the city of Astrachan 4043 persons perished,besides 21,163 in the provinces! From thence it commenceda north-v est course along the Volga, and reached Tsaritzinon the 4th of August. At Saratov (or Saratofi'), where itappeared immediately after, 2367 persons died in three weeks.A clergyman of that city, in going one day to bury fourcorpses, met sixty funerals!After visiting several other places, it reached Samaria,200 miles n. e. from Saratov, August 27, where, in sevendays, 47 people died. At the same time, it proceeded north¬ward to Penza, and in fourteen days its victims amountedto 800. At Nischnei- Novgorod, 968 were cut off; atKasan 1174. At length it reached Moscow, where, fromthe middle of September, when it first appeared, to the 17thof November, 6531 persons had been affected, of whom 3508died ! The patient either died in a few hours, or lingered formany hours, although able to converse ; some -were so vio¬lently attacked, as to be like persons brought to the groundby a violent blow, or by a stroke of lightning.In June 1831, the Cholera was discovered at St. Petersburg,and in about a month, out of 5367 that had been attacked, up¬wards of 2500 died. Warsaw, the capital of Poland, experi¬enced a similar affliction, and in less than a month, 2530 caseswere reported. Among the victims was Field Marshal Die-bitsch, who died 10th June 1831. To prevent the entranceof this grievous malady into Prussia, a sanitary cordon wasestablished from the Baltic Sea to near Cracow: along thisline no travellers were permitted to enter Prussia, except atI6.particufor places, w here they were obliged to produce a “ billof health,” stating them to be fi’ee from all infection, or else toremain ten or twelve days before they proceeded on theirjourney.Shortly after, the Cholera appeared in Austria, Riga, andDantzic; and on the 2bth of August, at Berlin, w here, in ninedays, 58 deaths were announced:While the disease was destroying sueli numbers in Russia,it appeared again in Arabia, after an absence of eight yeai-s,and destroyed 20,000 out of 50,000 pilgrims w ho were ontheir way to Mecca.This most awful disease visited Cairo in Egypt. In four¬teen days, the number of the dead was 7705, at an average ofmore than six hundred per diem, from August 21, to Septem¬ber 1 ; and during the same period, at Alexandria the mor¬tality amounted to upwards of one hundred daily. Five daysafter it had appeared at Cairo, it spread through LowerEgypt, and to the ships of war off Alexandria,From the arrival of the Cholera at Berlin, as already stated,if shortly reached the Elbe, and' in its usual mode, attackedmany of the towns on its banks. On the 7th October, 1880,Hamburg was affected. Considerable alarm was excited, andgreat fears were entertained respecting its entrance into ourown country,(iEntrance into our Country..Cholera first made it appearance among us at Sunderland,in the end of October, 1831. That awful plague, which vi¬sited in succession many lands, and swept away millions ofour fellow-creatures, in its desolating progress, at last ap-}H'oached the British shores. God gave our land ample w arn¬ing* that we might seek the divinely appointed way, to averta national calamity, by repentance,—but it is to be feared wewere slow scholars.— The political state of the country wasvery unfavourable for deriving any moral advantage from thedispensation with which we had been visited; The reformingaad anti-reforming factions in the nation, were-struggling for-the superiority, and striving to invigorate their strength byttirring up society to its very lowest depths, and evoking theworst passions of the human bosom. The, one party spoke ofthe pestilence that the attention of the people might be at¬tracted to it and away from reform; while the other first deniedthe existence of the disease, and then ascribed it to the wickeddevice of their opponents. Amid the contentions of politicalpartisanship, the judgments of heaven were tossed about like astraw on the foaming surge. But God was not to be mock¬ed. He hath bent his bow and fitted to the string his arrow ;and his deadly shafts were to be lodged in many a bosom.Suddenly it diffused itself throughout the country—appearingin various places at the same time—as if Moses had againsprinkled a handful of his pestilential ashes in the winds ofheaven. Cholera was soon acknowledged to be no humbug,but an awful reality. Even medical men said it was a fright¬ful disorder. The prostration of strength was nearly as rapidas if a lancet had been applied to the arm, and the stream ofblood had been allowed to flow. In a few hours, it inducedthe thin visage, and the crisped features, and the cold tongue,and the hollow voice, and the black-sunken eye, and thefeeble pulse, and the incessant thirst, and the sinking heart—he that laid the cold clay of his departed relative in the grave,might also prepare for the same doom.Cholera having made its appearance at Sunderland, reach¬ed Newcastle on December 7, and on the 17th it was dis¬covered at Haddington. January 14, it visited Tranent andMusselburgh, where it was very virulent; on the 81st theEdinburgh papers report three cases in' that city. It appear¬ed at the same time at Kirkintulloch, taking a leap of fiftymiles at once. About 12th February, it reached GlasgowPaisley, and London. March 14, it appeared at Paris,when 23000 persons died in the course of one month. InApril it passed over into Ireland, and reached the north ofScotland. May 12, it appeared in Liverpool. July 3, atCarlysle; about the same time at Kendal, Maryport, Pen¬rith, and Ayr with great severity. At Torigueland, and atSpriughill, Annandale, and, in September, in the village ofPenpont, there were four cases and three deaths.sAppearance in our ToirnFrom the spread of the pestilence, over the whole country,there was considerable excitement and fear, in the Spring andSummer months, of it reaching our town. A board of healthwas formed, near L.500 was spent among the poor in food,fuel, and clothes ; a soup kitchen was opened and continuedfor thirteen weeks ; but it was generally thought, from theopenness of our town, and the comparative comfort of ourinhabitants, if it did come it would not be severe. How vainare the thoughts of man ! We were long spared, but it cameat last, and raged with a virulence unexampled almost in anytown in Britain, the shortness of the time considered.The first case of Cholera, in Dumfries, was a female of thename of Paterson, in English Street, on September 15. Shedied next day. Some persons in the neighbourhood werealso seized. It rapidly increased; but, instead of lingeringin the locality where it showed itself, simultaneously appear¬ed in various parts of Dumfries and Maxwelltown. Peopleare slow to believe what they do not wish to be true; even atthis adv anced stage of the disease, many denied that it wasamongst us. Many now were in awful consternation, whichpredisposed them for the disease. Much was said, “ but theyspoke not aright.” If mention was made of any place beingspared, it was, “ the provost is very active.”—It was observedthat during the whole last week of September, the sky assumedan unusual appearance.—The newspapers of October 2, givethe following report:—Dumfries Board of Health official report to the CentralFrom the commencement on the loth to the 24th of September,Cases 17 ; Deaths 9; Recoveries 0.Board.New cases.Deaths.Recoveries,September 25,1493768527356955191314230053123October 1,MAXWELLTOWN.September 25,... 26,. . . 27,... 23,... 29,30,October 1,New cases.52514121810Deaths.0133974Recoveries0000231The appearance of our town was now dismal in the extreme,almost no vehicle to be seen but hearses, going in every di¬rection ; followed sometimes only, with one or two mourners ;in one instance the only attendant of the hearse was a boybare footed and meanly clad, he was following the remains ofhis mother; and, it was said, he had not another relation alive.No funeral letters were issued, no undertaker employed, nosuits of mourning procured and worn ; coffins, often ready made,were procured the moment after death, only a few friends wereinvited, who for the most part followed at a distance. For anumber of days at the tirst there was scarcely a single recovery.The Cholera hospital in English Street was opened, filled, em¬ptied, and as quickly filled again. The faculty, worn out withfatigue, were assisted by five of their profession arrivingfrom Edinburgh ami two from Castle Douglas; they even werenot exempt from the malady,—two belonging to our town diedand two of the strangers showed unequivocal symptoms. Anumber of pots filled with tar w ere burnt in the street in manyparts, which, especially at night, gave the town a gloomy appear¬ance. Most of the shops continued shut all day. Flying to thecountry did not evade death, there were more cases in pro-i portion of persons seized in the act of flying, and even afterthey had reached their destination, than those that remained.The grave digger’s spade, was in constant use; there was alarge common grave, like in the field of battle, for those thathad no burying place. St. Michael's* church was shut upon Sabbath for fear of Cholera graves and public worshipperformed in the court house. Wednesday, October 3,was very unlike a market day; there was no markets, fewopen shops, no cattle on the sands; out of nearly sixty car-10riers only one visited our town, every one seemed to dread thecity of the plague. We were like a beseiged town, cut offfrom all communication with the world. Thursday October4, was held by appointment as a last day, and many cried*to God to spare us. The oases that day were fewer, and con¬tinued to decrease ever after 5 that night after ten o’clock ther. iwas a violent thunder-storm, quite unexpected; some of t! >peals were terrific. It has been observed that Choleraother places decreased after a similar storm, audit was viewed Iby persons the roost timid, with pleasure. The academy was 1vacated and hastily fitted up as a house of refuge, which wassoon filled with orphans. Camphor, laudanum, preventativi ■pills, and many other drugs were in great requisition ; manycommenced smoking as an antidote ; brandy also was in greatdemand, a medicine which was disapproved of by the highestmedical authority.The disease likewise appeared at Springholm ; the firstcase was a man of dissipated habits, who had been at Dumfries.In all, twenty-five cases, thirteen deaths. Carlaverock wasalso severely visited, there were about twenty-one cases, eigh¬teen of these proved fatal; the localities were the Old Quayand Blackshaw. There likewise were three deaths by Choleraat the village of Amisfield ; indeed there were insulated casesover the whole country.To show the malignity of the disease, we here subjoin theofficial reports of the Dumfries and Maxwelltown Boards ofHealth, for tw o weeks,October 2,... 3,... 4,... 5,... 6',... 7,... 8,... !),... in,... ii,... 12,, . . 13,... 14,,.. ir>,HMAWVELLTOWX.t.October 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,New cases.513514561210S915105Deaths.03G5* 79410423453Recoveries.16152502627731Total cases from the commencement reported to Nov. 5.-Cases.827Cases.228DUMFRIES.Deaths.412MAXWELLTOWN.Deaths.119Recoveries.406Recoveries.96Cholera Hospital report up to 22eT of October.Total number of admissions, . . 97Do. do. of deaths, . . 66-Do. remaining convalescent, . . 7There were more deaths than what were reported officially.During the violence and near the commencement of the dis¬ease, many sickened and died without being seen by a medi¬cal man, or coming under the cognizance of the Board ofHealth. It has been ascertained, from the number of coffinsthat were made, and the grave-diggers accounts, that the realdeaths exceeded the reported ones upwards of 100; so thedeaths on both sides of the river, will be about 650 at the ut¬most.“ Our publicans were only warned to shut at night, whenthey ought to have been closed altogether nine months sooner;at least an interdict ought to have been laid on the sale ofspirits, which would have been a grand physical and moralpreventative of Cholera. If the same charge of generating ofCholera could be fixed upon a tan-yard, a slaughter-pen, or a ffish-pond, which has been substantiated against the places Iwhere ardent spirits are retailed in cities, the legal arm wouldremove them at once ; and the question would never be ask¬ed, how much sacrifice of' pleasure would be sustained by the 'owner of the fish-pond, or of money by the owner of a tan- 1yard, or slaughter-pen. Pleasure and money are not to beweighed against human life. Arid why should this spirit-tra-fic be entitled to peculiar favour ?”The pestilence likewise passed over to America, with aw¬ful malignity. A letter, dated 31st August, says, that inNew York there were 3500 deaths, in a population of 200,000,one in fifty-seven. In Quebec, the deaths were 2000, popu- ]lation 33,000, one in fifty-seven. Montreal the deaths were2000, population 25,000, one in twelve. In an alms house, jin that city, contains 1500 inmates, there were 300 deaths, ;one in five.During the height of the disease, there were meetings forprayer on account of the state of the country, in the establish¬ed churches once or twice a-week; and by the evangelicaldisscrile'rs conjoined, in the Spring and Summer months, aswell as in the time of the calamity, in their meeting housesalternately, which were attended by 100 to 200 people, in apopulation, both burghs’ included, of 15000, few externallyseemed to give glory to God for their deliverance,—zeere therenot ten lepers cleansed, but where are the nine ?From the 23d October, the cases became daily fewer, ar>dmore mild, and the recoveries more numerous. After thebeginning of December, there was no more cases, and thetown began to assume its usual appearance, although manyliving in the immediate neighbourhood, as well as those froma distance, did not enter it for months after, from a false re-port of the plague being still among us but concealed.The election, of a member of parliament for the burghs,took place here on. the 21st December, and the late calamityIseemed all to be forgot in the excitement and the dissipationprevious; many for nights before went not sober to bed; thehowl of the drunkard on the streets at midnight was as loudas ever, yet they all were far reform. But, excellent as reformis, bear, in mind, that you may get freedom from the domina-fSfion of aristocrats ami yet be the slave of sin and municipalreform, too, while you have a rotten burgh in your own*heart; and the civil government of the country, such as youwould wish, and the cessation of taxes, add to this the marchof science and every improvement, yet after all, as a nation oras individuals, we will be miserable in the extreme, if we aredeficient in morals,—only righteousness exalteth a nation..Causes.None need dhny that certain circumstances in the physical,'and in the righteous government of God in the moral condi¬tion of a people, tend to generate and spread this disease.The Bible teaches us that God is the moral Governor of theworld; but if this tract fall into the hands of any who esteem*revelation lightly, we would wish.to establish that the con-,stitution of nature proclaims this most important truth,—theheavenly bodies, animals, vegetables, and every natural ob- .ject are subject to certain, laws, which are undeviating audvunfifexible. “ Order is heaven’s first law,” and:if matter he,subject to such laws of order, we may conclude that, mind must,be subject in a higher sense, as mind is above matter. With¬out order, every social tie would be torn, asunder, every re¬lation inverted, every government overturned, and the wholeassembly of human beings converted into a discordant mass.Without morality there would be no social order, so the ma¬terial universe proclaims God's moral government, or that liewill punish sin.Some vices may be the moral'cause.of pestilence*, others ofthe moral and physical'eon joined; of the latter description,none occnpies a more prominent place thanIntemperance. 1 st, Physically. In making this asser¬tion, we shall not deal in speculation, hut rest the whole mat¬ter on well-authenticated and recorded facts. On this pointwe have the concurrent testimony of most of the physicianswho have had the opportunity of obsen ing the progress ofthis disease in Asia, Europe, and America. Dr. Ilieche in-*-forms us, that in China. “ the disease selected its victims from.!•!among such of the people as live in filth and intcmpcramr."Ramohun Fingee, the famous Indian doctor, says, that “ peo¬ple who did not take spirits or opium do not catch this disor¬der, even when they are with those who have it,” In thearmy under the command of the Marquis of Hastings, inIndia, consisting of 18,000 men, more than 9000 died in thefirst twelve days. And every one knows that soldiers, andespecially in warm climates, are notorious for habits of intem¬perance. Dr. Joenichiri, of Moscow, declares that “ drunk-,cnness, debauchery, bad food, and personal indiscretions, wereindubitably its predisposing causes.” Monsieur Huber, whosaw 2160 persons perish in 25 days, (more than 86 a da3T, )in one town in Russia, says, “ It is a most remarkable circum¬stance, that persons given to drinking have been swept awaylike flies. In Tiflis, containing 20,000 inhabitants, everydrunkard has fallen ! All are dead ! not one remainsDr. B.eeker, whose extensive experience entitles his opinionto deep respect, has recorded this caution, “ Above all thingsavoid intemperance, which at Berlin, as every where else, liasbeen found to render its votaries the first victims to this des¬tructive pestilence.” The London Medical Gazette remarks,that “ intemperance gives a claim to the pestilence which itnever overlooks. In every town and district, from the Gangesto the Wear, the drunkard has been the object of its earliestattack, and its most ruthless visitation.” The London MomitigHerald observes, that “ The same preference for the intem¬perate and the uncleanly has characterized the Cholera everywhere. Intemperance is a qualification which it never over¬looks. Often has it passed harmlessly over a wide populationof temperate country people, and poured down as an over*-flowing scourge upon the drunkards of some distant town.”The Edinburgh Board of Health says, “ Experience hasshown, that the most essential precaution for escaping the dis¬ease is sobriety; that intoxication during the prevalence of theepidemic is almost sure to be followed by an attack—and that,those addicted to drink, are the most subject to Cholera, andthe most likely to sink under it.” The Journal of Humanitystates, that “ In Poland nine-tenths of those who died ofCholera were known to be brandy drinkers. In Paris thevictims of the disease were, with few exceptions, among thelower classes all of whom drink intoxicating liquors to excess.In Montreal after 1200 had been attacked, a Montreal papersays, ‘ ±'iot a drunkard who has been attacked has recovered ol'the disease, and almost all the victims have been at least mo¬derate drinkers.’”Dr. Thomas SewalJ, of Washington city, tells us, that “theepicure and the intemperate have no safety but in a speedyand thorough reformation. Wherever Cholera has prevailed,it has invariably sought out the glutton, the drunkard, andthe. dissolute, and made them its earliest victims. Total ab¬stinence from all fermented liquors should be observed-”“ Cholera,” says Dr. Bronson, in a letter from Montreal,“ has pleaded the cause of temperance most eloquently, andwith tremendous effect. The habitual use of ardent spirits,in the smallest quantity, seldom fails to invite the Cholera,and to render it incurable when it takes place. Five-sixthsof all who have fallen by the disease in England, it is com-,puted, were taken from the ranks of the intemperate and dis¬solute.” Dr. Rhinelander, of tlie city of New York, who hadan opportunity of witnessing the Cholera in Montreal, re¬commends “ entire abstinence from spirituous liquors.”—“ Temperance,” says he, “ in every shape, is the great pre¬ventive,2«r/, Morally. It is opposed to the social moral and spi¬ritual interests of the people, and so opposed to God’s moralgovernment, and must be subject to bis punishment. Saysthe great judge Hales, “ by due observation for nearly twen¬ty years, I have found, that if the murders and manslaugh¬ters, the burglaries, and robberies, and riots, and tumults, theadulteries, furnications, rapes, and other great enormities, thathave happened in that time, were divided into five parts,four of them have been the issues and product of excessivedrinking.”“ Had it not been for distilled spirits,” says Professor Ed¬gar, “ nine-tenths of the murders, which have made Ireland aland of blood, had never been committed. It is acknowledgedthat, three-fourths of all pauperism, four-fifths of all agiavatulcrime, one-half of ail madness, one-half of ail sudden deaths,one-fourth of all d eat its in persons above twenty years of age,arc caused by spin tons liquors,”ttf“ Who can estimate the hatred' of God’, of his t\ ord andworship, and of his people, which it occasions ? or numberthe oaths and blasphemies it causes to be uttered ? or the vio¬lation of the Sabbath? the impurities and indecencies, vio-,k'nee and wrong-doing, which it originates ? How manythousands does it detain every Sabbath-day from the houseof God—cutting them off from the means of grace, and hard-,ening them against their efficacy ! How broad is the roadwhich intemperance alone opens to hell, and how throngedwith travellers!”Oh! were the sky over our heads one great whisperinggallery, bringing down about us all the lamentation and woewhich intemperance creates, and the firm earth one sonorousmedium of sound, bringing up around us, from beneath, thewailings of the damned, whom the commerce in ardent spiritshad sent thither;—these tremendous realities, assailing oursense, would invigorate our conscience, and give decision toour purpose of reformation. But these evils are as real as ifthe storm did cry out of the wall, and the beam answered it;as real as if, day and night, wailings were heard in every partof the dwelling, and blood and skeletons were seen upon everywall; as real as if the ghostly forms of departed victims fiittedabout the ship, as she passed over the billows, and showedthemselves nightly about stores and distilleries, and, with un¬earthly voices, screamed in our ears their loud lament. Theyare as real as if the sky over our heads collected and brought '*down about us all the notes of sorrow in the land; and thefirm earth should open a passage for the wailings of despair tocome up from beneath.”Were intemperance universal, it would soon exterminate thehuman family from oft’ the earth ; there are instances of someIndian tribes, and- even whole families in this country beingrooted out by it.— While temperate men continue their pre¬sent practises, the evil can never be brought to an end. Noman is born a drunkard; the whole mischief originates fromit being counted reputable and social to taste spirits; andwhile one and then another become the victims in.succession,intemperance is perpetuated in our country. He that wouldwish it brought to an end, must learn not to give it the small-.< st countenance, or, like Paul, not to taste that which niaketk,:i weak brother to oftendv)17Prui ane Swearing, i- anotlipr vice that may subjovt us to judgments,“ Because of swearing the land mourneth.” It has no temptations toplead In its 'Behalf, and it is committed just because it is a sin. Theman who can deliberately violate this command, proclaims to ail around,that he has no emotions of reverence and affection towards that Almighty■Being whose power upholds heaven and earth. Were this crime universal,all reverance for Jehovah would of course be banished from the earth; notemples would be erected to his honour; no forms of worship appointed.Universal reverence, for the name and character of Jehovah, would leadto all the duties of piety and morality. His mighty movements among thenations would be regarded with reverance : and ids holy word would beperused by all Classes of men with affection and dehght, as the oraclewhich proclaims the glories of his nature and the excellence of his laws.Sabbath Profanation, is often mentioned in the catalogue of Israel’svins, for which they received the severest judgments. It prevails in allgrades of society in our country1, and may subject us to similar calamities.Many pay little attention' to it externally; fewer make it regulate theirconversation, and fewer still make its spiritual ty bear upon the thoughts ofthe inner man. God forsaw tlrat the avarice and cruelty of man woulddeprive his creatures of their due rest, so he appointed a day for his pub-lie worship ; where the rich and the poor meet on the sariie level; herepride is abased; here decency and cleanliness is seen, and human natureappears in all its physical and moral grandeur. If the physical strength ofthe labouring class would permit them to work eighteen hours a-day in¬stead of twelve, it would soon be demanded, by their employers, for theprice of twelve, especially where a sufficient number of labourers can beeasily obtained; so were the Sabbath to be used as a day of labour, thewages of seven days would soon be reduced to 'what is bow given for six.The knowledge of the true God, which the institution of the Sabbath,more than any other means, has tended to perpetuate, would be lost; andreligion hurried in the dust, and the glories of redemption would he over¬looked, and the pursuit of the objects of time and sense, would absorb>every faculty of the soul.Licentiousness may be counted another national sin, from its awfulprevalence, and from its being tolerated in an organized form especially inour large towns. There is a lightness of speech on this subject whichprevails among 'many who wish to be respectable. They conceive that nogreat harm is, done to society by a few insolated actions of the kind, ifthey are concealed from observation ; but let such remember, that if itwere right to violate this or any other laws of the Creator in one instance,it would be right for all mankind to do so continually. Marriage would bedisregarded ; the endearing-relations of father and mother, of brother andsister, and all the ramifications of kindred, would be unknown. The train¬ing up of the youthful mind to knowledge and virtue would be neglected,dffiasing misery over the whole mass of human beings, and at lengthempty the world of its inhabitants. The foundation of all regular govern-mem wosld he undermined, for if is chieflv in those habits of iuhmissionan ! obedience that are acquired under the domestic roof, that the founda¬tions are '4»d, of that subordination which is necessary to secure the peaceand order'of Society.Our limits will not allow us to mention Ixfidelitt, Inattention to re-L.vnvfc Duties, Murder, Disiiowestt, Falsehoou, and Covetousness, allwhich are opposed to God’s holy nature, and liable to his punishment; butit will appear, that a universal violation of any one of the last six preceptsof the law, would lead to the entire destruction of the human race, and sosubvert God’s moral government, and the same effect would ultimatelyfollow' from a violation of the first four precepts of the decalogue.The little attention that is paid to the principles of divine revelation, inour intercourse with the world, is another prominent sin ; it w'ould not beknown that many make a profession of religion at all, except from theirappearance on Sabbath. For instance, if they’ have a vote to give for alegislator, the command, “ Provide out of all the people able men, suchas fear God, hating covetousness,” seem to have little influence with the'multitude; they will give their vote to any’ w ho please their own selfish'views, or will forward their own interests, although he were an infidel;when, according to the Bible, religion is as essential to a civil ruler, as ina minister of the gospel, and states will flourish just in proportion as their•constitution is according to the writen word.Again, there are a great number of denominations of professing Chris. 'tians among us, differing in their constitution and doctrine, which doubt¬less must be hurtful to religion. If, under the Mosaic law, even the formof the tabernacle and ark, was to be exact to the patern shown in theMount, we must he under higher obligation to have that branch of thechurch to which we belong according to the Bible. As the supportingunseriptural churches has been the root of all the heresy, and most of theimmoralities, that have ever been in the world. » The keeping the churchpure, is the most important trust we can hold from God; and for which 1we will be awfully responsible. But the greater part pay little attentionto this subject, they attend the church that js most fashionable, or wheretheir fathers went before them ; of the principles of different denominationsthey know little, because they think little about religion, and “ care fornone of these things.” They act otherwise in the concerns of this life.If they purchase a piece of land, no -pains will be spared to know if it isthe best. If they buy a yoke of oxen, they must ascertain if they are of asound constitution; but for the constitution of the church they care little.“ While honour, virtue, piety, bear sway,States flourish ; and as these decline, decay.”“ When nations are to perish in their sins,’Tis in the church the leprosy begins.”D.WID HALLIDAY, PRINTER AND BOOKSELLER,(BELOW THE COFFEE-HOL'SE.) DUMFRIES,