No. X. Pries One Penny.THE EIFE OFNapoleon .Mnonaparle. .A StOUriQX OFI AMUSING AND i^STRUCTIVEFAMFIlS,Ii;TS ;eoUrnfesiVGLIVES O.F GREAT WARRIORS & STATESMENbattiks on sis a. st h&wmHISTORIES OF DIFFERE.NT COi^?TRI^,M:cokfsrs"of wckvbitn&cn. nrti&f?, ’8i'to‘G&k&n€'HA It ACT fill S, ami NOTORIOUS W&BlfkftMUsifXlL FAMILY KRCBIPTA, e^XEftY-, &C. SctT.! "EOINRURGO: ,t^r*' I r'~^"«4INTeo FO* THP BOOrJ^na.SRfi,.V ' '■ >"" r '&i> R. AUuni'cit,K(/Vr uoe'^n- -J?' _ ja-*— ^THE LIFE OFNapoleon Muonaparte.IVapoleov Buonaparte, the most celebratedsoldier and conqueror in the modern world, wasIxirn at Ajaccio in Corsica, on the T3th August1760, being the second of the five sons of CarloBuonaparte, by Letitia Ramolini, (since so wellknown as Madame Mere,) a lady of great person¬al and mental attractions, by whom he had alsothree daughters- Carlo Buonaparte had studiedlaw at Rome, but resigning the gown for thesword, he fought under Paoli against the Ifrench,and when Corsica surrendered, was reluctantly in¬duced to live under the French government. Onthis submission, being much noticed by the newgovernor, the count de Marboeuf, he was appointedjudge lateral of the tribunal of Ajaccio; and onhis death, (from a cancer in his breast,) at the ageof thirty-nine, the protection of the count was hu-3'inanely extended to his widow and family. Underthis patronage Napoleon was early sent to Franceand placed at the military school of Brienne, andthence in 1784 removed to that of Paris, in qua¬lity of king’s scholar. Here he distinguished him¬self by his strong desire to excel in the mathematicsand military exercises ; and began to exhibit someof the strong qualities for which he was subse¬quently so remarkable. Studious and reserved, hemixed but little in the sports of his fellow-stu¬dents, and exhibited that taste for ancient ideas ofgreatness, and for the Spartan pith and brevitywhich afterwards, with a dexterous adaptation tothe French character, shone so conspicuously ihhis Speeches and bulletins. His propensity tomathematical studies, as connected with the artmilitary, is supposed to have operated againstmuch philological attainment or attention to t|lebelles leitres ; hut he very honourably passed hisexamination preparatory to being admitted into theartillery, of which he was appointed a second lieu¬tenant in 1785. After serving a short time, hequitted his regiment and retired to Corsica, butreturning to Paris in 1790, he became a captain in; 1791 ; and at the siege of Toulon in 1793, having\ the command of the artillery, his great soldierly1 abilities began to devolope themselves. He wast soon after made general of brigade, and it was to1 his plans that the republic was indebted for the1 first successes which it obtained on the Italian' frontier. At length, supported by the patronage« of Barras, he was appointed to command the coti-‘ Ventional troops at Parts, with which he defeatedthose of the sections in the memorable struggle of.the 5th October, 1794. His influence and theimpression produced by his character and abilitiesico ainualiy increasing, at the desiee of the officersand soldiers of the array of Italy, he was appointedto the com in and of tlr»t array, and on the recomi-mendation of hit friend and patron, Harms, threedays before his departure for Nice, in March179(>, he married Josephine. Deauharnois, widowof the count de Reauharnois, who suffered UnderRobespierre. At this tine Ihionaparte was onlyin his twenty-sixth year, and had never seen aregular engagement In Ins life; but such was hisown confidence, and the opinion entertained of hisardour, science, and activity, that lie inspired uni¬versal reliance. His history as a great captainmay be said to have commenced from this moment.The army opposed to him consisted of 6‘0,000Austrians and Sardinians, commanded by theAustrian general Beaulieu. After several skir¬mishes he wholly outmanoeuvred the enemy, andin the course of April won the battles of Mootenottc, Millesino, and Mondovi, which obliged theking of Sardinia to sign a treaty in his own capitakOil the 10th May following he gained tlie battleof Lodi, the first which fully evinced his couragea:td great military skill. This conflict put him inpossession of Biedmoiit and the Milanese. TheAustrians, obtaining reinforcements, now madegreat exertions to compel the French to raise thesiege of Mantua. The activity and ascendancy ofBuonaparte however rendered all their exertionsfruitless; his central position afforded him tintopportunity of engaging and defeating the oppos-*jag armies under YVurmser and Alvinzi, one afterthe other, and Mantua capitulated. In the Meantime the pope, the king of Naples, and the minorItalian princes were compelled to make peace withgreat sacrifices ; but the Austrians still persevereing, under the able command of archduke CharJesiBuonaparte penelvated through Friuli into Ger45many, and advanced within tliicfy leagues otVienna. Not howev-er bein™ a(li*qnately seconde<il>y the French armies on the Ithine, his situationbecome critical; and with the policy which knows! as well when to treat as to fight, he promptly fnco- posed negoeiations; and this memorable campaignterminated in the treaty of Leoben, the prelimi-[ nories of which were signed on the 1 (ill) April,1107. This treaty left Fiance in possession ofj llelgium and other eontjuests, ami established ft] recognised republic hi Italy. Before these preh-minaries were ratified, Buonaparte declared waragainst the repuHic of VeKtce, which could makelit tie resistance, and took rapid possession of thefleet, arsenals, ttvasure, nmj territory of this one?famous state. After making some arrangementsij ni regulation of the Cisalpine jejyuhlic, whidl lie' Itad estabhshed at Milan, he signed the definitivetreaty with the Austrians at Oampo Formio, ahdl returned to Farrs, where of course he was received' 'vith great respect and rejoicing. He was nowi nominated general-in-chief'of an expedition against' lingland, apfKirently a mere demom-tixition. as thatagainst Egypt was at this time in preparation.On the 19th May, 179S, Buonaparte sidled fromloulon with a Beet of thirteen ships of the line,as many frigates, and an immense number oftransports, with 40,000 troops on board, the floweri of the French army.| Having briefly stated the rise of this extraor-I dipary- man into military eminence, our remainingJ prices of his military career must be very generahihe events of his Egyptian campaign form a veryinteresting part of our own annals. In the greatvictory of Aboukir by sea, and the noble defence!of Acre by land. As illustrative of tliecharacter of1|Buonaparte, it exhibited him with his usual per.6stMKvl ascendancy in the held, while a number ofstrong measures evinced, more or less favourably,hjs fertility of expedient and strong determination.Of these, his affectation of Mahometan views, andhis military execution of the Turkish prisoners atJaffa, have been most condemned. The latter,although sanctioned we believe by the rules ofwar on flagrant breaches of parole, was doubtlessa very sanguinary act; but it is absurd and ig¬norant to assert with some silly journalists, that itis unprecedented in modern history. From thiscritical field of action. Buonaparte released himselfwith Ins usual decision and activity : having receivedinformation of the disasters experienced by the re¬publican annies in Italy and Germany, as also ofthe disordered state of parties in France, he tookmeasures for secretly embarking in August 1799,and accompanied by a few officers, entirely devotedto him, Ire landed at Frejus in October following,and hastened to Paris. He immediately addresseda letter to tire Directory, justifying the measureswhich he had pursued, and replying to the cen¬sures on the Egyptian expedition. This was evi¬dently the period of his life, that formed the tide,which as Shakspeare observes, when “ taken attlje flood leads on to fo.rtun.e.v Courted by allparties, and by Sieyes and Barras, at that time theleading men of the government, the latter, whoseems to have entertained an idea of restoring themonarchy, confided his plan to Buonaparte, whohowever had other objects in view. After manyconferences with Sieyes and the leading membersof thy council of ancients, on whom he could rely,he disclosed,his own projects, the consequence ofwhich was the removal of the sitting of the legis¬lature to St Cloud, and the devolvement to Buon-aparlc pf the.youimand of t)ie tryops of every de-scription, in orftcr to protect the national repre¬sentation. On the 19th November the meetingaccordingly took place at St Cloud, when soldiersoccupied all the avenues. The council of ancientsassembled in the galleries ; and that of five hun¬dred, whom Lucien Buonaparte was president, inthe orangery- Buonaparte entered into the coun¬cil of ancients, and made an animated speech indefence of his owti character, and called upon themto exert themselves in behalf of liberty and equa¬lity In the mean time a violent altercation tookplace in the cOunpil of five hundred, where severalmembers insisted upon knowi.ig why the meetinghad been removed to St Cloud, Lucien Buona¬parte endeavoured to allay the rising storm, butthe removal had created great heat, and the crywas, “ down with the dictator ! no dictator !” Atthat moment Buonaparte himself entered, followedby four grenadiers, on which several of the mem¬bers exclaimed, “ what docs this mean ? no sabresSliere ! rio armed men !” while others descendinginto tire hall, collared him, exclaiming, “ outlawhim, down with the dictator !” On this roughtreatment, general Lcfebvre came to his assistance,:i and Buonaparte retiring, mounted his horse, and1 leaving Murat to observe what was going forward,ji sent a picket of grenadiers into the hall. Pro-}tected by this force Lucien Buonaparte declaredthat the representatives who wished to assassinatehis brother were in. the pay of England, and pro-I posed a decree which was immediately adopted,“ That general Buonaparte, and all those who hadseconded him, deserved well of their country ; thatthe Directory was at ah erid and that the cxcctt-(tivc power should be placed in the hands of threeprovisionary ciinsufs, namely, Buonaparte, Sieyes,and Roger Ducos.” Such was the Cromweihart8extinction of the French Directory, which wasfollowed by the constitution, called that of the yeareight; in which Buonaparte was confirmed firstconsul, and Cumbaceres and Le Brun assistantconsul;?. The same commission created a senate,a council of state, a tribunate, and a legislativebody.It was a remarkable trait in the character ofBuonaparte, that on the attainment of any strikingAscendancy, he always stepped into action with ,confidence and conscious superiority. On thepresent occasion he prepared for the prosecution ofthe war with his usual vigour and energy. Leav¬ing Pans in April 1800, he proceeded with a wellappointed army for Italy, passed the Great StBernard by an extraordinary march, and burstinginto that country like a torrent, utterly defeatedthe Austrians under general Melus at Maringo, ontl\e 14th of the following June. This battle andthat of Hphenlinden, a second time enabled himto dictate terms of peace to Austria, the result offyliich -was the treaty of Luneville with that power,and ultimately that of Amiens with Great Britain,concluded in March 1803. All these successesadvanced him another step in his now evidentmarch to sovereignty, by securing him the con¬sulate for life, a men sure which excited great dis-aatisfacaiop in Great Britain, and contributed, to¬gether with the disputes concerning Malta and thetreatment of Switzerland, to a lapid renewal ofhostilities, the cessation of which had been littlemore than a truce-The despair of the friends of the Bourbons at |lthe increasing progress of Buonaparte towards jsovereign sway, at this time produced an endea. Jvour at assassination by the explosion of a machine afiljed with combustibles, 4S Iwj passed in his car-0ringe tlirough tlie Rue St Nicaise, from whicli> danger he very narrowly escaped. This planfailing* it as usual served the intended victim, by:i enabling him to execute and transport several per-i sonal enemies; as also to venture upon the strongj measure of the seizure and military execution of! the duke of Enghien, which he justified, assimiWi sanguinary proceedings have frequently been jus-I tided, by state necessity, and the law of self-prc-i:j sprvation. He was doubtless surrounded at thetime with dangerous and implacable enemies,rendered desperate by his exaltation. Generalsi Pichegru and Moreau, Georges, the two counts dePolignac, and forty-three more were arrested, otwhom Picbegru died in prison; Georges and ele-ijven more suffered on the scaffold, and Moreau wasexiled and departed for America. These ill-con-. feerted intrigues liastened the grand event whichiftjhey were destined to avert, and addresses weregot up all over France, calling upon the first con¬sul “ to accept the crown of Cbarlemagnei” Heaffected none of the reluctance of Caesar, but awarethat the French were not Romans, at once ac¬quiesced in the splendid proposal, which was con¬firmed by a degree of the senate, dated 18th May,1801.L On the 2d December following he w'as crownedtmperor of France in the church of Notre Damein Paris, by the hands of pope Pius VI, whom heobliged to come in person from Rome to performthe ceremony. He was immediately recognised by(the emperors of Austria and Russia, and by thekings of Prussia, Spain, and Denmark ; the kingif Sweden alone refusing. The popular form oflithe Cisalpine republic being incompatible with fh$new order of things, he now proclaimed himsejfiking of Italy; and Great Britain behag his sol©I ter.10■enemy of magnitude, on the /Hh of August hepublished a manifesto, announcing an invasion ofEngland, and assembling a numerous flotilla at jEoulogne, formed a camp in the neighbourhood,of 200,0Q0 men. The battle of Trafalgar on the21st October put an end to this scheme, if everseriously determined upon, by destroying thegreater part of the French navy, ami instead ofinvading England, the assembled army was turnedagainst Germany, once moiv excited to premature ^hostilities. In less than six weeks tire pretended "army of England was on the banks of the Danube, j:and the capitulation of general Mack at Ulm was ithe rapid consequence. On the 11th November,1805, the French army entered Vienna, whichFrancis II. had quitted a few days before, to retirewith a remnant of his army into Moravia, where ‘the emperor Alexander joined him with a Russian farmy, which he commanded in person. Napoleonencountered the two emperors on the plains ofAusterlitz the 2d of December, where the greatmilitary talents of the French leader again prevail- ied, and the treaty of Presburgh followed ; whichrecognised him king of Italy, master of Venice, ofTuscany, of Parma, of Placentia, and of Genoa.Prussia also ceded the grand duchy of Berg, whichhe gave to Murat; and in exchange for Hanover,the margravate of Anspach, which he assigned toBavaria, cementing the chain of intermarriages-with his relatives, which he meditated, by uniting .his adopted son, Eugene Reauharnois, to a princess’of that family. ^ ;He now also began to assume the lofty power ofregulating and creating dynasties; and promoting1 ithe minor princes around him from one grade to ;Another. The electors of Bavaria, of Wirtemburg,1 >and Sattony were transformed into kings; the t11crown of Naples was bestowed on his brother Jo¬seph, that of Holland on Louis, and that of West¬phalia on Jerome; the republican Lucien declin¬ing every gift of this nature.In July 1806, he ratified at Paris the famoustreaty of the confederation of the Rhine, in whichhe transferred to himself the preponderancy pre¬viously enjoyed by the house of Austria. In themonth of September following he demanded fromhis new allies levies of men, and by his conduct inrespect to Hanover, and his military movements,once more goaded Prussia into the resistance ofdespair. A powerful Prussian army was againgot together, and that wretched campaign ensuedwhich ended in the decisive battle of Jena, foughton the lith October 1806, the consequence ofwhich defeat was more fatal than the defeat itself.A sort of moral consternation or mental paralysisfollowed ; strong places opened their gates whileoccupied by numerous forces, at the first summons,and entire armies submitted without a blow. Inshort, all the Prussian states were occupied in lessthan a month, and the Prussian family, especiallythe king and queen, were doomed to entertain apersonal enemy, conqueror, and absolute dictator*very much like the most common of his courtiers.. At this time France might be said to be mistressi of civilized Europe, with the exception of Great. Britain, the result of which domination was the| famous lierlin decree, in which all commercial, intercourse with England was strictly forbidden ;a vain but harrassing expedient, which was doomedin the end to lead to the demolition of the factitiouspower which attempted it. The severe campaign, against Russia succeeded, in which wera.-fuughtSt4ie battles pf Pultusk and Ffiedland, and whichended in the treaty of Tilsit, This, celebratedngrteeWKhtt frMs by m hfWt'Vl^tv bet'SH'etiNspolioh AfWl Atexandfei*, on a raft in the rivet’Nietnen, where tlie two efrtpertjl’s met attd em¬braced, as did their officers ami attendant soldiers ;iin itnitfltion. The feohieiusion of the tVeaty on the j7th July I8&7, by a’hicli Russia and RruS^ia ett- jgafnd to loeep their pdrth doseti the Eng- fh«h, and .to adhere to the ebntertehtal blockade,fb!lowed this cordial snlatatioh.Napoleon now tamed his attention to %a?ff, hnd ?affected to meet the king and his son ^ndinahd ht IRaytmne, to adjust their family differences. Theresult watt the abdication of Chadefe tV, and theforced resignation of Ferdinand, Who was most jtt-eacherously ahd indefensibly mode a captive, ona general p'efl, which, if ndtnitted, Would put artetid trt once to the thedPy of national independence,but which, while truly denounced wicked oh tirepart of Napoleon, has been Closely imitated by hissuccessors. He then sent ah army of 80,000 meninto Spain, «nd soon seized all the strong places,and being in possession of Madrid, he suppressedthe convents and nil the religious orders through- Iout the kingdom. On the lioth October 1808, he j1announced, that with the assistance of God, he •intended to crown his brother king of Spain atMadrid, mid to plant the eagles of France on thetowers of Lisbon. The Spaniards nevertlieiesst*naciously, if not skilfully, resisted ; and Napo •I eon leaving the pursuit bf the English army under18ic .John Moore to marshal Soult* returned to *Paris. As the object of this abridgment is tofollow the personal movements, rather than the 1general progress of his wars, no attempt will be 1made to desdrihfe the desultory hostilities, so hem- *ourable to British skill and valour, which followed Ijo Spain and Portugal. The next aggression of itIII^apolfiofi d^ritcd the pope of the hYovtSiccs ofUf'b‘itr'6, IVitifieirafa, and Ancona, for declining towage War against the British, and he finished by adecree dated iTth May 1809, that deprived binholiness of all sovereign authority, and constitutedRome a free imperial city.Encouraged by the Occupatron of a large Frencharpiy in Spain, Austria, on the 6th of April mthis year, a third time ventured to declare waragainst France ; on Which Napoleon quitted FaristOn the 16th t»f the Same tnonth, anti heading hisarmy fought the battle's of Eandshut, Eckmuhl,i Ratisbonne, and Neomark, between that date and! 6re 10th of May, on which day he once moreentered Vienria. The occupation of that capitaldid not terminate the campaign, fot on the £ 1 st ofthe same month was fought the Bloody and inde-: cisive battle of Essling, in which, after great loss,'I Napoleon was obliged to retreat to the island ofl.obau. Tire archdifke Hilaries Was however toomuch crippled to follow up his success, and theFfench being reinforced, the decisive victory ofI Wagram was gained on the 5th and 6th July ; on: ,tlm l&th a snspenSion of arms was agreed upon,and oh the 14th of the ensuing October, a defini¬tive treaty of peace was concluded, one of theSecret conditions of which soon beca'me apparentli by preparations commencing for the dissolution of1 the marriage of the conqueror with Josephine.That marriage, for the reasons stated—littlet fnore than the want of issue, and the alleged wel-! fare of France—being annulled by the senate,■ Josephine, with the title bf e\-empress. retired to'j Navarre, a seat thirty miles from Paris, and onthe 2d April 1810, Napoleon espoused* the arch*-1 duchess Maria Louisa, daughter bf the emperor1 Francis If goon after this marriage, he united14to France the provinces situated on the left hankof the Rhine, and by a decree of the 13th Decem¬ber in the same year, Holland, the three Hansea¬tic cities of Hamburgh, Bremen, and Lubec, anda part of Westphalia, were added to the empire ;as also by another decree, the Valais, so little didhe now conceal his yiews of an universal Frenchempire.In March 1811, as if all his wishes were to begratified, a son was born to him, whom he chrisrtened Napoleon Francis Charles Joseph, and calledking of Rome. Aware of the discontent of Russia,and of her intention to resist the first favourableopportunity, towards the end of the year 1811 hebegan those mighty preparations for the invasionof that empire, which formed the nucleus of thegreatest array of disciplined and able soldiery,which ever moved under one command and in onedirection.In May 1812, he left Paris to review the grandarmy, made up of all his auxiliaries and coufed-erates, (willing and unwilling,) assembled on theVistula, and arriving at Dresden spent fifteen daysin that capital, attended by the emperor of Aus¬tria, the king of Prussia, and nearly the whole ofthe princes of the Continent, among whom hemoved the primum mobile and the centre. ThisCVentful campaign against Russia may be said tohave opened on the 22d June, on which day heissued a proclamation, wherein, with his usualoracufar brevity, he declared that his “ destinieswere about to be accomplished.On the 28thJune he entered Wilna, where he established aprovisional government, while he assembled ageneral diet at Warsaw. In the mean time theFrench army continued its march, and passed theNiemen on tlie 23d, 24th, and 25th June, arriving ■15i at Witepsk on the way to Smolensko in the earlypart of July. In the march it obtained several1 victories, and the Russians finding their enemy tooi powerful in open contest, contented themselves forthe most part in wasting the country, and addingto the severities and operation of the Russian cli-f mate upon a southern soldiery. The French armyhowever undauntedly proceeded, until arrivingnear Moscow on the 10th September, the famous: battle of Borodino was foilght, so fatal to bothj parties, and in which 60,000 are supposed to haveperished. Napoleon notwithstanding pressed on to! Moscow, froth which the Russians retreated, asi also the greater part of the inhabitants^ who aban-i doned it by order of the governor, count Rostop-J chin. When therefore Napoleon entered the cele-!l brated capital, four days after the battle, he foundf it for the greater part deserted and in flames.1 This strong measure of which Russia possibly deemsi: k impolitic to take thfe credit, saved the Russian« empire, by completely destroying the resources ofNapoleon. After remaining thirty-five day's in thef ruins of this ancient metropolis, exposed to everyi species of privation, retreat became necessary, and( one of the most striking scenes of human sufferingwas experienced by the retreating army, ever pro-'duced by the unfeeling extravagances of ambition.• Hunger, cold, and the sword attended the wret-j died fugitives all tile way to Poland. Detail> within these limits would be impossible, it must1 therefore suffice to add, that arriving at Warsawon the 10th Decemhej, on the 18th of the samemonth Napoleon entered Paris at nig-ht, and bnthe following day a bulletin, with no great conceal¬ment of their extent, disclosed his immense losses.Fatly the next month he presented to the senate a• electee for levying 850,000 meiti which was unani-16mously agreed to, and he forthwith began pre¬parations to encounter the forces of Russia andPrussia, now once more in combination. On the2d May, he encountered the armies of these alliesat Lutzen, and forced them to retire, on whichAustria undertook to mediate, but not succeeding,the battle of Bautzen followed, in which the Frenchwere victorious.On the 26th May an armistice took place, andnegociations were opened, which proved fruitless ;and Austria was at length induced to join theallies. On this important event Napoleon endea¬voured to reach Berlin, while the allies sought tooccupy Dresden, which attempt induced him toreturn and repulse them in the buttle of Dresden,on which occasion, Moreau, who came from Ame¬rica to fight under the banner of the confederates,was mortally wounded. At length these equivocalcontests terminated in the famous battle of Leipsic,fought on the 16th, 18th, and 19th of October,whjch was decisive of the war as to Germany.The French loss was immense; prince Poniatowskiof Poland was killed, fifteen general officers werewounded, and twenty three taken prisoners; andof ISf.OOO men, opposed to 300,000, not morethan 60,000 remained. On this great victory, theSaxons, Bavarians, Westphalians^ in a word, allthe contingent powers declared for the allies.Napoleon returned to Paris, and interrupted thecompliment of address, by thus stating the dis¬agreeable fact, that “ within the last year allEurope marched with us, how all Europe is lea¬gued against usHe followed up this avowal byanother demand of 300,000 men. The levy wasgranted, and on tire kGth January, he again headedhis army, and the allies having passed the Rhineearly in the same month, in the succeeding monthlittr. 17of February were fought the b.Utfes of Dizitr,rBricHiie, Champ Albert, aiul Montmiiail, withvarious success; hut now the advanced guard ofthe Russians entered into action, and -Napojeonwas called to another quarter. The sanguinaryconflicts of Moatereau and Nogent followetl, inWhich the allied forces suffered severely, and wereobliged to retire upon Troyes. Early in Marchthe treaty of alliance was concluded between Eng¬land, Austria, Prussia, and Russia, by which eachwas bound not to make peace but upon certainconditions. This was signed, at Chatillon on the(5th March, and made known to Napoleon, who'■fcfused the terms. His plan was now to get intodie rear of the combined army, and by this nuu’KEuvre to endeavour to draw them off frym Puris%out the allies gaining possession of hi? intention byW intercepted letter, hastened their progress, andon the yOtli March attacked the heights of Chau-tnont, from which they were repulsed with greatdoss. At length, however, their extensive arraybore on so many points, that on the Frenchbeing driven back on the barriers of Paris, marshalMarioont, who commanded there, sent a flag oftruce, and proposed to deliver up the city. Napo-'leon hastened from Fonfcainbleau, but was ap¬prised five leagues from Paris of the result, heaccordingly returned to Fontainbleau, where becommanded an army of 50,0U0 men, and the nego~iciation ensued, which terminated with his consign¬ment to the Island of Elba, with the title of ex-femperor, and a pension of two millions of livres.He displayed no unbecoming want of firmness onthis occasion, and on the 2Qih April, after embra¬cing the officer commanding the attendant grena¬diers of his guard, and the imperial eagles, he:departed to his destination.| it is unnecessary to detail the events of his brief18residence in this island, in which he was visitedn|by many curious Englishmen and others. It is ftprobable that he never meant to remain in thatlequivocal situation, or the allies to allow him. Bcithis as it may, secretly embarking in some hired Ifeluccas, accompanied with about 1,200 men, onl]the night of the 25th February 1815, he landed ||on the 1st of March in the guff of Juan, in Pro- Jvence, at three o'clock in the afternon. He im¬mediately issued a proclamation, announcing hisintention to resume his crown, of which, “ treasonhad robbed him,” and proceeding to Grenoble,was at once welcomed by tiie commanding officerEabedoyere, and in two days after he enteredEyons, where he experienced a similar reception.In Lyons he proceeded formally to reassume allthe functions of sovereignty by choosing council¬lors. generals, and prefects, and publishing variousdecrees, one of which was for abolishing the no¬blesse, of whom the restored family had alreadymade the French people apprehensive, and anotherproscribing the race of Bourbon. Thus receivedand favoured, he reached Paris on the 20th Marchwithout drawing a sword. In the capital he wasreceived with loud acclamations of “ vivo 1' em-pereur ?” and was joined' by marshal Noy, and the igenerals Drou’et, Lalieinand, and Lcbfevre. Onthe following day he reviewed his army, receivedgeneral congratulations, and announced the returaof the empress.■ On opening the assembly of Representatives, onthe 7th June following, he talked of establishing aconstitutional monarchy, but by this time the allieswere once more in motion, and having collected animmense supply of stores and ammunition, hequitted Paris on the 12th of the same month, tomarch and oppose their progress. He arrived onthe IJth at Avesnes, and on the 14th and 10th19Knight the parlialiy yuccosslul battles of Fleurnsand Ligny. On tlie 18th occurred the signal andwell-known victory of W aterloo, in which feritvshintrcpiditv made so successful a stand under theOuke of Wellington, until aided into decisivevictory by the timely arrival of the PrussiansUnder Rulow.j The conduct of marshal Grouchy, commandingthe French reserve, was deemed doubtful on thisoccasion ; but the conquered frequently make theseallegations, and it is quite as likely that, the moraloperation of success having passed away, similardistrust and want of confidence began to pervadethe French armies, to that which had formerlydistinguished those of the allies. In the haltie,out of 95,000 men, it is thought that the Frenchlost nearly 50,000. Napoleon immediately re¬turned to Paris, but the charm was now utterly'dissolved ; and, soured hy the result of the battle,and fearing another occupation of the capital, astrong party was openly formed against him, andeven Ins friends urged him to abdicate. He wasprevailed upon at length, with some difficulty, totake this step in favour of his son. It need not besaid that all this sort of expedient was now tooi late, and that the fate of this once all-powerfulchieftain drew to its tristful termination Forj some time he entertained the idea of embarking forAmerica; bjut fearful of British cruizers, he atljlength determined to throw himself on live genero-(j sijty of the only people who had never materia!i vI yielded to Ins influence. He accordingly resigned■jhimself, on the 15th July, into the hands ofCaptain Maitland, of the Byllerophon, then lyingi at Rochefort, and was exceedingly anxious to landit in England. On giving himself up, he addressed| the Prince Regent in a welUknown letter, in winch1 he compared himself to Themistocles.It is imtw)s*d)k' to dwdi on the of his |conduct and reception, or to the circuotstawes |attendant on his consignment ft)r safe custody to |St Helena, by the joint determination of the allies.For this his final destination, he sailed on the 11thAugust, 181 A, and arrived at St Helena on the13th of the following October. The rest of bislife is little more than a detail of gradual bodilydecay; rendered however stiikingly amusing bythe narrative of his remarks, conversation, andliterary emdoyment, among the few faithful cour¬tiers and officers allowed to aceomjaany him. Theseare all in the highest degree characteristic; nor,with the exception of some auenikms resentmentof what he deemed degrading and unnecessaryrestriction and suspkion, does he appear to haveconducted himself below bis great powers of mind.The multifarious publications descriptive of histreatment and deportment under it, render allfurther attempt at description here superfluous;suffice it 11 terofare to say, that while a vast majo¬rity' deem his detention a justifiable piece of statenecessity, opinion is much more divided as to thepropriety of a portion of the restrieiions, in regardto the receipt txf newspapers, pot traits, friendlymemorial^., &c. which could opeiate in no way tohis release. Possibly, indeed, looking to various 1minor indications, an involuntary conviction of awant of a little governing equanimity and good-sense in St Helena, strikes most of those who readthese curious details. Leaving this to opinion, itappears probable that mental affliction, added tounhealthy climate, began to operate fatally on theconstitution of liuonaparte from the hour of hisarrival; as nearly the whole ©f the four years andupwards, while he remained there, he was sicklyfind diseased. liis ultimate complaint was a cancer21in, Ms bre^st^ apparent! \ a disease to which lie hada constitutional tendency, as his father died of asimilar fnaladv. He bore the excruciating tortureof Iris disorder, for six weeks, with great firmness,generally keeping his eyes fixed on a portrait ofIris son, which was placed near his bed. From the1 loginning he refused rtvedkrine as useless ; and thelast words, uttered in a state of debruin, on themonring of his death, were “ Mon fils !” soonafterwards, “ tete d’armee !” and lastly “France.”Tliis event took place on the 5th May, lSs!l, intlie fifty-second year of his age. lie was interred,according to his own desire, near some willow treesand a spring of water, at a place called Maine’sValley, his funeral being, attended by the highestffjfcilitary honours.: Thus terminated the eventful and dazzling ca¬reer of NapMcon Buonaparte, one of those extra¬ordinarily gifted individuals, who falling into aperiod and course of circu-mMances adapted to tiieir' peculiar genius, exhibit the capacity of humannature in the highest print of view. It is uselessto apologize for the imperfection of what must1 necessarily he a mere sketch, but possibly a rapidview of personal, rather than of general events,may give a better off-hand impression of a careerlike that of Buonaparte, than more minute and! elaborate detail, passing as it docs as rapidly acrossthe mind* as he himself passed across his eventfuli existence. It will he obvious, even from thisi inadequate glance, that his distinguishing charac<*i teristics were decision* self-reliance, energy, and| promptitude of action—all soldierly qualities, buti mixed up in him with a clearness of discernment,i and a faeiliry of calculating a«d combining phy-i steal result** which form at once tlie incentive andI plain spring of prosperous eat-erpriss. As a soldier.indeed, he exhibited the highest order of genius1that of invention. Ke conceived a new modewarfare, founded on a scientific and rapid movnient of vast masses ; which, usitii practised anunderstood by his opponents, rendered him almonecessarily victorious. He, in fact, altogethe'changed the modem art of war; and as we haveseen, be long profited by the priority of discoveryLooking at the moral complexion of his. intellectuaiity, it is evident that the common selfishnessof ambition actuated him ; and that, like most,fortunate soldiers, the glory attendant upon domination and mastery* dazzled him more than thenobler species, which gives such a fine lustre to thenames of Washington and Bolivar. His abolitionof monkery and fanaticism, wherever he could reachthem ; his removal of all the remnants of feudalservitude; and his completion of an adequate andestimate code of laws, regulative of justice betweenman and man, are ail compatible with the mostselfish ambition, such improvements being theinterest of every order of ruler, if the blindness ofdespotism couid be made to think so.His person, thin in youth, and somewhat cor¬pulent in age, was rather delicate than robust inoutward appearance, but' Cast in the mould mostcapable of enduring privation and fatigue. Herode ungracefully, and without the command ofhis horse which distinguishes a perfect cavalier ; sothat he showed to disadvantage when riding besidesuch a norseman as Murat. But he was fearless,sat firm tn his seat, rode with rapidity, and wascapable of enduring the exercise for a longer timethan most men.The countenance of Napoleon is familiar to a’-most every one from description, and the portraitswhich are found every where.. The dark-brown■£3iair bore little Jiiat.ks of the attentions of the toilet.The shape of the countenauce approached morelian is usual in the human race to a square- His?y.es weje grey, and full of expression, the pupilsSlather large, and the eye-brows not very strongly| narked. The brow and upper part of the coun-'.er.ar.ce was rather of a stern character. His noseu.d mouth were beautifully formed. The upperit> was very short. The teeth were ;iodifferent,3ut weie little shown in speaking. His smileoqssesse(d uncommon -sweetness, and is stated torave been irresistible. The complexion! was a: dear olive, otherwise in general colourless. Thejrevailing character of his countenance was grave,fyea to melancholy, but without any signs oiJeverily or violence. After death, the placiditydignity of expression which continued to ou-:upy the features, rendered them .eminently be;iu-Ijyiul, and the admiration of all who looked on• then:.His personal and private character was decidedlyi amiable, excepting in one particular His temper,when he received, or thought he received, provo¬cation, especially if of a personal character, waswarm and vindictive. He was, however, placablein the case even of his, enemies, providing thatthey submitted to his mercy ; but he had not thatspecies of generosity which respects the sincerity' ef a manly and fair opponent. On the other hand,no one was a more, liberal re warder of the attach-tpten: of ids friends. lie was an excellent lu»s-oband, a kind relation, and, unless when statelipolicy intervened, a most affectionate brother.’ll There was gentleness, and, even softness, in hischaracter. He was affected when he rode ov er the^fields of battle, which his ambition had strewed"with the dead and the dying, and seemed not onlyS>4flpsh'olls to ro^eve the TictirtrS^issuirrg for th?ifHii^ptwe fltrectiotis-, which too often tt-ere m>t, rfrtttohIcI hot he (rfievet-i,—’'ot showed himself «ihjetJ'to tlife iriftudfrtie of thft Mdtti aedfe and irriafrinfitiv;« • “ * -Ilfspecies of symftalliy wfiith is termed sensrbilitjjlHo Hiehtiohs a eifeninMahec' wdiicti iiidicates a detffsense ot' feeling. As h£ passed over a field Cvbattle in Italy, with some of liis generals, he saw iihouseless dog lying on the body of his slain imsfctiThe creature came towards them, then returnefto the dead body, moaned over it pitifully, antseemed to ask their assistance. Whet!:er it Weijthe feeling of the mbntortt*”’ continued Napoleorj14 the scetie, the hour, or the c'rrcumstnfice itself, |was never so deeply afRcted bv anything windI have seen upon a ticid of battle. That man, fthought, has perhaps had a house, friends, Contirades, and heie he lies deserted by every one bu;his dog. How mysterious are the impressions t;which we are subject ! I was in the habit, wilhovfemotion, of ordering battles which must decide th|fate of a-campaign, and coufd look with a dry ed4on the execution of ninuceuvrcs whieh must hiattended with much loss ; and here I was moVetj—nay, painfully affected*—!iy the cries and thgrief of a dog. It is certain that at that moment jslioukl have been more accessible to a suppliarteneiilv, and could better understand the eonduCof A eld lies in restoring the body of Hddtur to fillteai-s of Prist-in.” The anecdtde at otice shows ttVaNapoleon jkfesessetl a heart aitTenttbfc to hitmanfeelings, and that they were usually in total Subjectinn to the stern precepts of miihary steicisinIt was his ceUntioti and’ expressive’ pSifase, tbathe heart of a politician- shoald’ tpr, In his heiid1but Iris- feelings sometimes sOrpVued' hiW fd 'gentler mbyd.