PROPHECIESOFThomas the Rhymer;THE ANCIENT SCOTCH PEOPHET,Containing the wonderful fulfilment of manyof his Predictions; and those notyet accomplished.Collected, Examined, and now PromnlgatedBy Me. ALLAN BOYD, F. S. A.Sob.Deputy Janitor’a Clerk in the College of Hayti.WITH, SUBJOINED, AN ACCOUNT OF THE8 Battle of Bannockburn,io fatal to Tyranny, and favourable to theScottish Independence.ALSO, THECottager* Saturday Night.ISTIRLING:Printed and Sold, Wholesale and Retail,By W. Macnie, Bookseller.1828.SHORT ACCOUNTOFSir Thomas Learmant,THE RHYMER.Sir Thomas Leaumant, commonly calledThomas Rhymer, was born in the east cornerof Fife, of a good family. His Prophecieshave been more credited than any that were:ever recorded in the Scots Chronicle, as theyhave been well attested, what of them is past,and what they allude to, in this present centuryand period, and of his dark sayings yet to comeHe told many mystical prophecies anent alll <the Kings of Europe, and what "fell out accord- :ing to his prediction, in this ancient kingdom ofScotland; what is past, present, and to come.This brief account is taken from the Recordsof Cryle, near which place he was born and! r:brought up.His father was said to be Laird of Balcomie,,srand the records of that family is extant in thei Rolls, for their assisting at several councils for> the honour of Scotland. And Sir Thomas Rhy-: imer’s prophecies and sayings are still held in»esteem.[ He lived in the reign of Alexander III. Kingjof Scotland, in the year one thousand twoi hundred and forty-eight, much regarded, andi knighted by that king that same year.' The first of his prophecies ever taken to bej faithfully observed, was, That there should be! a storm on a certain day, that would surprise all> Scotland. Now, some gentlemen being withi him that day, they began to joke him, and said,a Sir Thomas, you are now mistaken, and we shall’ istay and see your mistake, as we have heard soi much of your prophecies. He told them to stayi ran hour longer, and they would see and believe.ii jAnd in less time than the hour, an express ar¬rived to Sir Thomas, from Edinburgh, of the3 death of Margaret, Queen to Alexander 111. whoi idied that day. Upon receiving the news. Sirfl Thomas told them that this was the storm, andw it would give rise to greater commotions in Scot-liiand.i After the death of Queen Margaret, the Kingt (married Isabel, daughter to the Earl of Driux;b land Sir Thomas told within a few months of anin earthquake at Kinghorn, that would make Scot-i.i land tremble. An«express accordingly came to> i Clyde to Sir Thomas, that the King had fallenlojfrom his horse at Kinghorn, and broke his neck.%.After the death of Alexander, he left no heirsexcept a grandchild, Margaret, daughter to theKing of Norway, who also soon died ; but ashort time before her death, she was betrothedto Edward, king of England. After this therewejjp great commotions anent the succession to kthe crown of Scotland, which occasioned great jJbloodshed, particularly betwixt Bruce and Ba-hol, which you have recorded in the ScottishHistories.The pride of Spain, and the deceitful con- |dust of the French, as also concerning the |Jiutcb, is ah foretold.—Likewise the ScotsRattles of Torwood,Bothwelbridge, Malplackie,Ivillycrankie, Sheriff-muir, Proud Preston, |near Glad’s-muir, Falkirk, Ciilioden, and theOarpps in Morayshire, and on the Windmill [brae at Aberdeen, by General Coap, and at©unbar.In forty-five, eighty-two and three,Sir Thomas’ W orks doth certify.THEPROPHECIESA S to his prophetical sayings, they are hardto be understood, because they are pointedout by the Coat of Arms which appertain to somany different kingdoms and persons. Yet wemay observe how he has pointed out plainly,many things which have come to pass in ourdays; such as the extirpation of the noble raceof the Stewarts, the Revolution, Sheriff-muir,wliere he says.That three Ships and a Shield,That day shall keep the field ;And be the Antelope’s build.These three ships and a shield, are in theDuke of Argyle’s arms.And even every particular of the rebellion inand 1746. When pointing at it, he says,A Chieftain unchosen,Shall choose forth himself,And rule the realm as his own.OFThomas the Rhymer.When speaking nf K ir^ Charles, he calls him‘ A sly Fox-biro, v, ho -/ ukl turn to Christ withthe wyles of tods and foxes.’ Meaning his swear¬ing of the covenants-When speaking of the battle of Preston pans,in the year 1745, he names the very two neigh¬bouring villages to the spot of ground whereonit was fought, viz. Coyleford-green, and Seton,saying, ‘ Between Seton and the sea, sorrowshould be wrought by the light of the moon.’-Which act really came to pass that morning thebattle of Prestonpans was fought. But how theIkon was hurt at this time, and not perceived, isyet a mystery. Some are of opinion, that it wasby taking away the power or superiority fromthe chiefs of the Highland Clans, so that theycannot raise men in such a short time as formerly.These are a few observations on things al¬ready «ome to pass ; and as to what is yet tocome, there is some remark will yet happen,when the time draws nigh : such as, ‘ WhenTarbet’s Craigs are tumbled into the Sea. Andthe next season or summer thereafter, great sor¬row and bloodshed happen to this realm, thechief thereof especially i such as barling on sleds,and chopping off heads.1 This Tarbet standsnear the root of the river Clyde ; buf whether itsbeing tumbled into the sea shall happen by anearthquake, thunder, or by the lianas of men, isa mystery unknown.There is also mention made of a Lord with a |locken or double hand, which certainly is of royalblood, and will breed great stir and confusion inBritain. This man is alive at this very present 1age, avid of the Stewarts’ race, now in Italy. 1' There is plainly pointed out, that in his time, ai ireat battle should be seen in Fife."Where saddled horses should be seen,Ty’d unto the trees green.!! Not only in Fife, but the four chief rivers ofne realm, there should be a battle on each oflem, that should make theriversrunwithblood,iz. Tweed, Clyde, Forth, and Tay..! Last of all, a bloody desperate battle imNor-i Cumberland, on the river Tyne. Also greatavock and slaughter about the broad walls oflerwick. All these things are yet to come to »•ass; and when the first appears, the rest willicon follow after.—PART LI.When Hemp is come and also gone,Scotland and" England shall be one.«Edward, Mary, Philip, Elizabeth.VI. of Spain,Q. M’s Husb.HEMP.Praised be God alone.For Hemp is come and gone.And left us old Albion,By peace join’d in one.lenry,nil.Theexplicationoftheforegoingprophecycon-a erning Hemp being come and also gone; leav-leaving Scotland and J^pglund Joined in one. isfulfilled in the late king Yv iiiiam, who came outof Holland, which, in old times, was vulgarlytaiwd the land of Hemp, and the joining of thetwo nations together, signifies the union.These things were foretold by the two ScotsProphets in the reign of King Arthur. First,by the marvellous Merlin, w ho is said to be gotby a devil, who ravished a young woman, hismother,in a wood near Coldstream, in the southaf Scotland. Afterwards, to the same purpose,these ami many more strange things were fore¬told by Thomas Lermant, vulgarly called Tho-ir.asRhynrer, because bespoke all his propheticalsayings in rhyme, and so darkly that tin?couldnot he understood until they came to p'tiss.But of all the prophets that ever were in Scot¬land, none of them attained to such credit, be¬cause many of his predictions referred to ourown country, and were accomplished in the lastand present century.Thomas the RhymersPROPHECIES,IN VERSE.1 SCOTLAND be sad now and lament,For honours thou hast lost,But yet rejoice in better times,Which will repay the cost.23\\9Tho’ unto tliralJorn you should be,.Brought by your enemies;You shall have freedom from them ail,And enjoy yyUf liberties.The grave of the most noWe Prince,To all is great regret,The subject-to law, who doth leaveThe kingdom and estate.0 anguish great! where every kindAnd ages doth lament:W bom bitter death has ta'en away,Shall Scotland sore repent.Lately a land of rich increase,A nation stout and true,Has lost their former dear estate,Which they did hold of due.By hard conflict, and by the UsanceOf noble Fortune’s force.Thy hap and thy prosperityMay turn into worse.SB Tho' wont to won, may be subdued,And come in under yoke ;Strangers may reign, and you destroy,What likes him by sword’s stroke.! A foreign foe whom neither thy focce.Nor manners do approve,j Woe is to thee, by guile and slight,Will only win above.109 This mighty nation was to-fore,Invincible and stout ; »Will yield slowly to destiny,Great pity is but doubt.10 In former age the Scots renownDid flourish goodly gay ;But yet, alas ! will be overcomeWith a great dark decay.11 Then mark and see what is the causeOf this so wond’rous fall!Contempt of faith, falsehood, deceit,. The wrath of God withal.12 Unsatiable greed of worldly gain.Oppression, cries of poor ;A perpetual and slanderous race,No justice put in ure.13 The haughty pride of mighty men,Of former vice chief cause.The nutriture of wickedness,An unjust match of laws.14 Therefore this cause the prophetsOf long time did presage ;And now has happen’d every pointInto your present age.15 Sintee fate is so. now Scotland learnIn patience to abideSlanders, great fears, an d sudden pkAnd great dolours beside.'5ii16 For out of thee shall people rise,With divers happiness ; ,And yet a pen can scarcely write,Thy hurt, skaith, and distress.•'!! 17 And yet beware thou not distrust*Aitho’ o’erwhelm’d with grief,Thy stroke is not perpetual,For thou shah find relief.1' 18 I do suppose, aitho1 too late,Old prophecies shall hold,Hope thou in God’s goodness evermore,And mercies manifold.i 119 For thou that now a patient is,And seemeth to be bound ;At liberty shall free be set,And with empire be crown’d.)i 20 From high above shall grace come down,And thy state, Scotland, be.In latter ends, more prosperousThan former age did sec.It 21 Old prophecies foretell to thee,A warlike heir he’s born,Who shall recover new your right.Advance this kingdom’s horn.£! 22 Then shall fair Scotland be advanc’dAbove her enemies power ;Her cruel foes shall be dispersedAnd scatter’d from her bower.1223 Fair Scotia's enemies may invade,But not escape a plague :With sword, and thirst, and tears, and pest,With fears, and such like ague.24) And aft§r enemies thrown down,And mastered in war,Then Scotland in peace and quietness,Pass joyful days for ever,But that the curious may be more fully in¬formed concerning the aforesaid predictions,with respect to their being exactly fulfilled,they are referred to the Scottish Histories.AN ACCOUNTOF TUBBattle of Bannockburn.EDWARD If. of England,kept up the sameclaim upon Scotland, which his father hadbegan ; and after several unsuccessful attemptsto establish it, he resolved to make a great effortand with one blow reduce that turbulent nation,which had put so many signal affronts upon hisfather and himself.In the spring, Igl'l, he assembled the most513inuinerous army that had ever crossed the bor¬ders, composed of different nations, amountingito above a hundred thousand effective men,beside a huge multitude of attendants, whoiijcame along in hopes of sharing in the plunderbf a conquered enemy. At the head of thesehe marched northward, with an uncommonoarade, and in full confidence of victory.Robert Bruce, the son of that Robert Bruceivho held a conference with Wallace upom the• .tanks of the Carron, and grandson to him whotad been competitor with Baliol, had, in 1306,i ’een crowmed King of Scotland ; and being in-i lormed of Edward’s formidable preparations, hei iaised an army of thirty thousand of his subjects,So oppose him. This armament bore but a smallrroportion to that of Edward's, but it was com-iiiiosed of soldiers, who were hardened by longMractice of war, and who now carried upon theijoint of their sword, liberty and honour, andlivery thing that was dear to them. , With theseRobert took up his station in the neighbourhoodi f Stirling, and waited for Edward’s arrival.iThe two armies came in sight of each other, inl|e month of J une; and socnafter,a bloody bat-ie was fought, in which the Scots obtained a vic-T>ry, the most celebrated of any in the annals ofmat kingdom. The procedure of this memor¬able event, was as follows :—Sir he English having marched from Edinburgh• t;: .j... i .u   -'aiiark in one day, and upon the morrow, setr-|jngou.UhencetowardsStirling, encamped to thejjnlh ward of Torwood. About Upper Bannock-irn,and backward upon the muir of Plean, in<e neighbourhood of the Roman Causeway,14pieces of broken pots, and other vessels, have beenfound ; and upon rocks near the surface, marksof fire have been discovered, where it was sup¬posed the soldiers hadmade ready theirprovisions.Barbour, the author of King Robert Bruce’s life,speaks as if their camp had stretched so far north¬ward as to occupy a part of Carse Ground ; andso vast a multitude must doubtless have covereda large tract of the country.The Scottish army was posted about a mile tothe northward, upon several small eminences,south from the present village of St. Ninians.Upon the summit of oneof these eminences, nowcalledBroek’s-Brae, is a stonesunkintotheearth,with a round hole in it, near three inches in di¬ameter, and much the same in depth, in which,according to tradition, King Robert’s standardAvas fixed, the royal tent hrwingbeen erected nearit. This stone is well known in that neighbour¬hood by the name of the Bore-stone. The smallriver of Bannockburn, remarkable for its steepandruggedbanks, ran inanarrowvalley betweenthe two camps.The Castle of Stirling ivas still in the hands oftheEnglish. Edward Bruce, the King’s brother,had, in the spring ofthe year, laid seige to it, butfound him self obliged-to abandon the enterprize;only by a treaty between that Prince and Mou-bray, the Governor, it was agreed, that, if thegarrison received no relief from England beforeayear expired, they should surrender to the Scots.The day preceding the battle, astrongbodyofcavalry, to the number of eight hundred, wasdetached from the English camp, under the con¬duct of Lord Clifford, to the relief of that garri-;IaL15son. These having marched through some hol¬low grounds, upon the edge of the Carse, hadpassed the Scots army before they were observed.The King himself was the first that perceivedthem, and desiring Thomas Randolph, Earl ofMurray, to look towards the place where theywere, told him, that a rose had fallen fiom hischaplet. Randolph considering thisasareproach,because he had the charge of that part throughwhich the English had marched, immediately setoutafterthem with aparty offive-huudredhorse,and coming up with them in the plain where thesame village of New-House now stands, a sharpaction ensued ; in sight of both armies, and ofthe garrison of Stirling.. It was fought with val¬our on both sides; and it was for some timedoubtful where victory should turn. King Rob¬ert, attended by some of his officers, beheld thisre-encounter from a rising ground, supposed tobe the round hill, immediately upon the west ofSt. Ninians, now called Cock-shot-hill. JamesDouglas, perceiving the distress of Randolph,who was greatly inferior to the enemy in num¬ber, asked leavp to go to his support. ThisKing Robert at first refused, but afterwardsconsented. Douglas put his soldiers in mo¬tion ; observing, however, as he was on theway, that the victory was upon the point ofbeing won without his assistance, he stoppedshort, that bis friend might have the unrival¬led glory of it.—The English were entirely de¬feated, and many oflliem slain ; and Randolphreturned to the campamidst acclamations of uni¬versal joy. To perpetuate tne memory of thisvictory, tv?o stones were reared up in the field,and are still to be seen there. They stand in a16spot which has lately been enclosed for a gar*den at the north end of the village of New-House, and about a quarter of a mile from theBorough-Port of Stirling.This victory gave nevslpirits to the whole ar¬my, and made them so e^er for the general en¬gagement, that the night, though among theshortest of the year, seemed long to them. Atlength appeared the dawn of that important day,which was to decide whether Scotland was hence¬forth to be an independent kingdom, or subjectto a foreign yoke. Early all was in motion inboth armies; religious sentiments were mingledwith the military ardour of fhe Scots: a solemnmass, in the manner of chose times, was said bythe Abbot of Inchaffery, a monastry in Strath-earn, who also administered the sacrament to theking, and the great officers about him; while in¬ferior priests did the seme to the restof thearmy.After this, they formed in order of battle, in atrack ofgroundcalled Nether Touchadam, whichlies along the declivity of a gentle rising hill.This situation had been previously chosen,-be¬cause of its advantages. Upon the right theyhad a range of steep rocks, now called Murray’sCraig, and in their front were steep hanks of therivulet of Bannockburn. Not far behind themwas a wood, some vestiges of which still remain.Upon the left was a morass, now called Milton-bog, from its vicinity to a small village of that,name; much of this bog is still undrained, and apart of it is at present a mill-dam. As it wasthen the middle of summer, it was almost quitedry. But King Robert had recourse to a strata¬gem in order to prevent any attack from that quar-ITSet. He had ordered many ditches and pits to beilitg in the morass, and stakes sharpened at bothends to be driven into them, and the whole to bei covered over again with green turf, so that theground had still the appearance of being firm.ie also caused crow-feet, or sharp-pointed ironsj'!o be scattered throughout the morass; some ofi rhich have been found there in the memory oft icople still living; the same manoeuvres were like-vise carried on for a little way, along the front) if the left wing ; for there the banks for aboutjiHWo hundred yards, being Hatter than they arei ny where else, it was the only place where theI jnemies could pass the river in any sort of order.|{y means of these artificial improvements, jo’fti-d to the natural strength of the ground, thei’fcotch army stood as within an intrenchment,find the invisible pits and ditches answered to“ve concealed batteries of modern times,i Among the other occurrencesof this memorable; ay, historians mention an incident of a singulari ature. As the two armies were about to engage,k oe Abbot of Inchaffery past i ng himself before theIcots, with a crucifix in his hand, they all fellfowa upon their knees in act of devotion. Thetmemy, observing them in so uncommon aposturejoncluded that they were frighted unto submis-liljon, and that, by kneeling when they should befejp&dy to fight, they meant to surrender at discre¬tion, and only begged their lives; but they weretion deceived, when they saw them arise again,id stand to their arms withsteady countenances.The English began the action by a brisk ch rgeSoon the left wing of the Scots, commanded byandolpb.near the spot where the bridge is now18thrown over the river at the small village of Char-tershall. Hereabout wasthe only place where theriver could be crossed in any order A largebody of cavalry advanced to attack him. in front,while another fetched a compass to fall upon hisflank and rear, but before they could come to aclose engagement, they fell into the snare thathad been laid for them. Many of their horseswere soon disabled by the sharp irons rushinginto their feet, others tumbled into the con¬cealed pits, and could not disentangle them¬selves. Pieces of the harnessing, with bits ofI broken spears, and other armour, still continueto be dug up in the bog.In the beginning of the engagement, an inci¬dent happened, which though an itself of smallmoment, was rendered important by its conse¬quences. King Robert wasmouutedonhorseback,carrying a battle-axe in his hand, and* upon hishelmet he wore a high turban, in the form of acrown, by way of distinction. This, together withhisactivity, rendered him very conspicuous asherode before thelines. AnEnglish Knight namedBohun, who was ranked among the bravest inEdward’s army, came galloping furiously up tohim, in order to engage with him in single com¬bat, expecting by so eminent an act of chivalry,at once to put an end to the contest and gain im¬mortal renown to himself, but the enterprising’champion, having missed his blow, was imme¬diately struck dead with the battle axe which theKing carried in his hand. This was a sort of sig¬nal for the charge. So bold an attack upon theirKing, filled the Scots with sentimentsof revenge ;and the lieroicachievementperformedby him be¬fore their eyes, raised their spirits to the highestpitch ; they rushed furiously upon the enemy,19 ..iho, having by this time. passed the river in;eat numbers, gave them a warm reception.A singular occurrence, which some accounts^present as an accidental sally of patriotic en-tusiasm, others as a premeditated stratagem17 King Robert, suddenly altered the face offairs, and contributed greatly to the victory..11 the servants and attendants of the Scottish•my, who, are said to have amounted to twentynousand, had been ordered, before the battle,i|> retire behind Murray’s Craig. But having,luring the engagement, arranged themselves ini martial form they marched to the top of the111, and displaying banners, moved towards:ie field of battle with.hideous shouts. Thejfllnglish perceiving this motely crowd, and ta¬iling them for a fresh reinforcement advancingi» support the Scots, were seized with so greatI panic, that they began to give way in con-sion. Buchanan says, that the King of Eng-liind was the first who fled ; but in this he con-■adicts all other historians, who affirm that hejiras among the last in the field. The Scotsitursued; and great was the slaughter amonglie enemy, especially in passing the river,i'lliere they could keep no order, because of the^regularity of the ground. King Edward him-telf escaped with much difficulty, being closelyI lursued above forty mi les, by Sir James Douglas,mh a party of light horse. He was upon theoint of being taken prisoner when he was re-eived into the Castle of Dunbar by the Earlf March, who conveyed him to England byea, in a fisher’s boat; his immense army beingntirely discomfited. The Scots lost only four'housand men ; while the loss of the Englishmounted to above thirty thousand.soT33KCottager’s Saturday NightA POEM.Containing a very pleasing and affecting Dscription of the piety and happiness ofa Cottager and his Family."VJOVEMBER chill blow loud with angr ;brow,The short’ning winter’s day is near a close' i,The miry beasts retreating from the plough;Theblack’ningtrainof crowsscek their repose vThe toil-worn Cottager from labour goes,This night his weekly toil is at an end,Collects his spades his mattocks, and his hoeaHoping the morn in ease and rest to spendAnd weary o’er the moor his course does homeward bend.At length his lonely Cot appears in view,Beneath the shelter of an aged tree ;Tli’ expectantyoung ones totteiing stagger thro’To meet their Dad with prattling noise and glee:His little wood-fire sparkling cheerfully,His clean hearth-stone, his thrifty wife’s gladsmile,The lisping infant prattling on his knee,Does all his weary anxious cares beguile,AndmakeshiuiquiteforgethLslabourandliistoil.2iThe elder children soon come dropping in,At service out, among the farmers round;iknne drive the plough, some herd, some care¬ful runI A clever errand, to a neighb’ring town ;Their eldest hope, their Jenny, woman grown,In youthful bloom,health sparkling in hereye.fconaeshomeperhaps, to shew herbraw hew gown,Or else to lay her hard earn'd penny by,;?o help her parents dear if they in hardship lie.ith joy unfeign d, brothers and sisters meet,-i And each for other’s welfare kind inquires;ti’ha social hours, swift-wing'd, unnotic'd fleet;5:1 Each tells the news that he sees or hears;he Parents’ partial eye their hopeful years;Anticipation forward points the view !e mother with her needle and her shears,Makes old clothes look almost as well as new,he Father mixes all with admonition due.ir Master’s and their Mistress’s command,11 The Youngers all are warned to obey ;find mind their labours with a careful band,iil^nd ne’er, tho’ out of sight, to lurk or play ;iiAnd O ! be sure to fear the Lord alway !‘ijAod mind your duty, duiy, morn and night,ifcst in Temptation’s path ye go astray,ailmplore his counsel and assisting might;yjheynever sought in vain,that sought the Lordaright.’i.,vt hark! a rap comes gently to the door;m Jenny, who knows the meaning of the same22Tells how t neighbour lad came o’er the moor,To d6 some errands, and convoy her home.The cautious Mother marks the conscious flame,Sparkle in Jenny’s eye, and flush her cheek;Withheart-struckanxiouscare,inquireshisname,While Jenny hesitates afraid to speak ;Welhpleas'd the Mother hears, it’s no wildworthless rake.With kindly welcome, Jenny brings him in ;A comely youth : her joy the Mother shews;Blythe Jenny sees the visit’s no i'll ta’en ;The Father talks of horses, fields, and cows,The Youngster’sartless hearto’erflows with joy.But dash’d and bashful scarce can well behave.The Mother, with a woman’s wiles can spy,What makes the Youth so bashful and sogr^ve,Well-pleas’d to think her Child such suitor’slike to have.O happy Love ! where Love like this is found 1O heart-felt pleasure ! bliss beyond compare !I’ve paced much this weary, mortal round,And sage experience, bids me thus declare—‘ If Earth a draught of true delight can share:One cordial in this melancholy Vale,’Tis when a Youthful, loving, modest Pair,With hearts sincere breathe out the tender taleWalking o’er fragrant fields that scent tinev’ning gale.’Is there in human form, that bears a heart—1A Wretch ! a Villain ! lost to love and truthThat can, with studied, sly, ensnaring art,Betray sweet Jenny’s unsuspecting youth !Woe to his perjur’d arts ! dissembling, smoothAre Honour, Virtue, Conscience, all exil’d ?1 , 23Is there no Pity, no relenting truth.Points to the Parents fondling o’er their Child ?i Then paints the ruin’d Maid, and their destruc¬tion wild !I But now the Supper crowns their simple board,i ITheoatmealparridgecheapandwholesomefood,i The milk their only cow does well afford,i IPhat in the orchard peaceful chews her cud ;i The Dams brings forth in complimental mood,iCo please the Lad, the cheese she would not sell,i And oft he’s prest, and oft he calls it good;rt’he frugal housewife, talkative will tell• low ’twas a twelvemonth old, since flax wasin the bell.arhe cheerful Supper done with serious face,9|hey round the embers form a circle wide ;cl'he Sire turns o’er with Patriarchial grace,s|:.'he huge big Bible, odce his Father’s pride,Jlis hat is reverently laid aside,iV1 A is hoary locks growing so thin and bare:lo'rom strains that once did sweet in Zion glide,fjiT de takes a portion with judicious care;Land ‘ Let us worship God !’ he says, with so¬lemn air.hen kneeling down to Heaven’s Eternal King,he Saint, the Father, and the Husband prays;Tope ‘ springs exulting on triumphant wing,’li.i'hat thus they all shall meet in future days :dthere ever dwell in uncreated rays,to more to sigh, or shed the bitter tear,jglogether hymning their Redeemer’s praise,j i i such society, yet still more dear ;circling Time, moves round in an eternal24::iCompar’d with this, how poor Religion’s prideIn all the pomp of method, and of art,When men display to congregations wide,Devotion’s ev’ry grace except the heart!The power incens’d, the pageant will desert..The pompous strain, the sacerdotal stole;But haply^ in some Cottage far apart,May hear, well-pleas’d, the language of tha jSoul;. . . 'llAnd in his Book of Life, the inmates poor enrol!";Then homeward all take off their sev’ral way, |The Youngling Cottagers retire to rest; *The parent-pair then secret homage payAnd offer up to heaven the warm request:That he who stills the raven’s c^am’rous nest,And deck’s the lily fair in flow’ry pride: =,Would in the way His wisdom sees the best,For them and for their little ones provide ;But chiefly in their hearts, with Grace Liviusreside,O Biutaix ! my most dear, my native soil!For whom my warmestwish toHeaven is sent!Long may thy hardy sons of rustic toil.Be blest with health, and peace, and sweeicontent!And oh! may Heaven their simple lives prevent,. From Luxury’s contagion weak and vile ! JAnd from each Cot, may pr ay ’r and prai se be sen tTo God’s high throne, that He may deign tosmile,And like a wall of fire surround cur much iov’cIsle.FINIS.- ■ * VmiTh Ci gjjlgjjjBjl—^