tAgainst the•HOLY G H O S T:O R, T;» ESIN v n t q p E A T III. Proving ivhat that fin is,jj, 7hat aii Q'th<*r -finsh'h'.'ti4: 'eat and hainbuiJoevcr, may be forgiven unto men ; but theblafphetny againfl the HolY Ghost, (ballnever be forgiven, neither in ibis world,. nor in the world to come. £ ~T<> which i? adJed,Some INSTRUCTIONS i« mv a mao may'walk, and not commit this unpardonable fin.Matth. xii. 31. dll manner o f fin and blaf-phemy fmtl be forgiven nntp m n. exceptit be the fin againjl the HOLY GHO^f.% M. i HOMAS H AilTQN7. .Printed in the Year, MpD€C,UXXlY»-Briefly Discotrsed of.4 Y -C 2 JOf the Unpardonable SinAgainst theH .O L Y G H O S T.John is. 16. There is a ftu unto death.THERE is no mere man fince thefall, that can live without (in; forall are finners. But vet there are fomedegrees ol lins; f)nie fins in their own natureare final!, others are more great, yea, hei¬nous. Many fins there are that are great,yet pardonable; and one fin there is unpar¬donable, and whofoever commits that one fin,/hall h ave no forgivcnefs, hut mult for everhear the weight and punithmcnt both of thatand of all his other fins: There is fuch a finas St John freaks of here in my text, that itis a Cm unto death. And now i come to theexplication of the words, from vyhence I flialiraile this point of doctrine.Doer.Doct that arnavfrft all the fntt c/imniit-tcd by fallen Mat kind th^re is only oneftn that is a fin unto Death; and avho-foever conunitteth that he hath no for-givenefs neither 'minis avo>ld, nor in thethe -world to come.Now for my further proceeding on tint fub-*«ft. I (hall lay open to you,Firft, What the fin nnto death is-adiy, That all our fins, fo great and hain^ous foever, may be forgiven.3dly, That this fin alone (hall never be for*given.4tbly, The reafon why -that fin -alone isunpardonable. And then,Lafilv. I fiiall conclude with a few wordsof application.I fiiall begin fitfi, with the deferiptiou ofthi« unpardonable fin, where I fhall endeavourto make as plain j defeription of it as pofllbleI can; and doing <>f it, I (ball t. Shew younegatively, what is. not this fin. 2 i (ballfliew you pofitively, what it is.i. I fliall (liew you negatively what is notthis fin unto death : or in what degree a Manmay fin. and yet not commit that unpardon¬able fiu againfl the Holy Gholl.As x. It/C 4 11. It is not every quenching of the Motionsof the Spirit that is that fin. It is true whenthe Holy Ghoft comes with a (lill voice, andknocks at the doors of fniners hearts for en¬trance, he often comes and (hives with them,and fecretly wooes and befeeches them to leavetheir fins, and be converted; yet they quenchand flifle all his motions, and bear up theirhearts againfl him, and will not be obedientto bis heavenly calls. Now fuch, fin g. ievouf-ly againft the Holy Ghoft. But yet this aloneis not the unpardonable fin againft the HolyGhoft; for men who have flood ir out a longtime, and have often quenched and grievedthe Holy Spirit, yet at laft they have beenwrought upon into fincere converfion.2. A man may commit many hainous anderying fins, and yet not be guilty of the un¬pardonable fin againft the Holy Ghoft; a manmay be an idolator, a Whoremonger, a for-ni<-.tor, a murderer, and work witchcraft,and fin with a very high hand ; nay he mayJoe in all manner of fihhinefs and lewdnefsand yet not be under the guilt of the unpar¬donable fin againft the Holy Ghoft Thus weread. 2 Chron. xxni. That Manajfes /tunedwith a very high band; he was an idolateran inchanter and worked avitkcraft anddealt cod'' familiar foirits, and wrought muchevil in the figtit of the Lord. And Mary Mag.dalane had /even devils ca/l out of her, Lukevii, 2. and both were pafdtffted.3’ A3 A man may fin prelumptuofly ngainftgreat light and knowledge, and yet not com¬mit this fin unto death ; for Peter, when hedenied Chrifi, he did it againft great knowledgeof Chrift, he knew Cbrill to be his Lord andSaviour, he was one of Chrill’s beloved difci-ples, and for all that, how flrongly denied heChrift, and that with an oath too? And yetfor all that, Ghrift looked upon him with amerciful eye, and he repented, and was for¬given:4 Tt is not every malicious fin that is theunpardonable fin againft the Holy Ghoft; forSt Paul had certainly great malice m hi* heart,when he w'ent on fo furioufly to petfecute thechurch of God, and yet w'fts con verted ; be¬came a preacher of thegofpel of Chrift, whichbefore he perfect!ted.5. And laflly, It is not final unbelief, notfinal impenitence, that is the unpardonable finag iinft the Holy Ghoft, tho’ fume be of opi-rmon that it is becaufe that fin is unpardon¬able; and Chrift hiiriftlf hath laid. Math. xii.11. That all manner oj Cm and blafphemy Jhallbe forgiven unto men, except it be the Cm a.gainfl the Holy Ghofl. But you are to take thewords of our Saviour in their true fenfe andmeaning; it is all mannerof fin and blafphemycommitted within the com pal* of a man’s 1 fethat (hall be forgiven, except the fin againft theHoly Ghoft; fur fin of final unpeniiency andfinal unbelief is not completed until the \ei ymoment„ t -6 3mwem of a death : and then you allknow ,h>t the.e Is no repentance; and confe-qnf.nlynopa don after death, for Chrift faith.Hr that finneth againfi the holx Ghofi, hathm fo>gnietiejs. neither in this world, nor inthe world to come. Now. whv fhmild Chriftlav In this world, if there be no fpace to befoi gtven in this world ? But a man m,y com-m" the unpardonable fi againfl the HolyCholf, even many year, before his death, Be-(ioe«, there are many thou finds that die in im¬penitence and tin belief and are damned, andyet never committed the unnardouable fin a-gamft the Holy Ghofi.Thus I have fhewed yon negatively, what isnot this unpardonable fin; none of thefie finsin particular is that fin.I come now to fliew you pofi-tively what this/in unto death is, and wherein this unpardon¬able fin againft the Holy Ghofi doth confift,now there are fevcral 'opinions in the worldabout it fbme hold one thing, Ibme another.But T have no time nor room to difpim- con¬cerning others opinions about it; but I willendeavour, thiough God’s help, to lead youto the plain light of it by the light of the ho¬ly feriptures.Now in thefirfi jilace, you muft know, thatthei e are two forts ot people that cannot com¬mit this unpardonable fin.t. The true believers cannot commit it, tho’manymany times for thtir tryal, God fuffers themto fall foully into many grof. lins; yet theybeing rooted in Chrift are upheld by freegrace and mercy, that they cannot fall intothis unpardonable fin.2. The grolly ignorant cannot commit it,becaufe it is a fin againlt great light andknowledge. Indeed the greater part of theworld (ball be damned, yet amongU the grea-ter part, there are but few of them that cancommit that unpardonable fin againft theHoly Ghclt.Some have both light and grace, thefefhall not cojt>mit that unpardonable fm. Again,fome have neither light nor grace, thefe can¬not commit it. Ibut the e are ft.me again thathave light and no grece, thtfe are they thatare liable to commit that unpardonable fin a-gainil the Holy Ghofi. Now, theie intilf betwo ingredients to make up this uttpardonablefin; that is, light in the Head, and malice inthe Heart ; without thele two the fin agaiultthe Holy Ghofi cannot be comwiitted ; for tofin againft great light and knowledge is notthat fin alone; nor yet to fin ignorantly, outof that malice, is not that fin ; but they multjoin both together, to make up this unpardon¬able fin. Thus wee fi e by the example of StPeter and St Paul; Peter be denied Chrift mdforefwote him too, and that grievoufly, a-gainft light and knowledge; for he knewChrift to be tbe-only begotten Ion of God, andhe knew God in hint, and was one ol Chrift’sJT- C 8 ]difciples, and one of his Moved ones too, heas taug t o Chrift, and had experimentalknowledge of h,s love and favour, and yethe wickedly vvuh an oath denied him. Nowif 1 cter had done this out of maliee and fpite,then he had committed that fin unto death,for which there is no forgivenefs; but Peterhad no malice tn his heart all this while, e-ven when he denied Chriff, a*S yon may fee.Matt xxvi, When Chriff told him, Before thecockcrow thou f!,alt deny me thrice; he anfvver-ed. If Ifhould die with thee, I-will not deny thee.And then denying him through infirmity andweaknefs of the flefh, when he confidercdwhat he had dime,He vjent out andivept bitterlyver. 75- And Paul, he had great malice andIpue againft the ways and people of God,as you may fee, Arts ix. i. Now, here was agreat rage and malice in Paul againft theways and people of God, but doing it igno¬rantly, he -n laft heard a voice, faving, Saul,Saul,-why psrfecuted thou me? and receiving alight from heaven, that it was Jefus that heperfect!ted, he was pricked to the Heart, andtrembling aflonifhctd laid, Lord, vjhat roiltthouhave ms to do? Now, by thefe two places offcriptnre you may plainly fee, that Peter finnedtjgainft great light, and Paul out of great ma-lice, yet none of them both committed iheun*pardonable fin againft the Holy Ghoft; butwhenfoever light and malice meet together inone man then there is a fin againft the HolyGhoft. Now as all other fins, fo this finagainft the Holy Ghoft may be committed inthought, word and deed.InThis fin is thought to be the fin of theloft angels; for which caufe they were loftwithout all hopes of Pardon. Now, home dif-pme whether their fin wasafinofthethought;But, I lay, with all liklihood, it was; for theangels being only fpirits, without bodies, andfo have no ule of bodily tongues, it couldnot be committed in words, nor yet could theycommit it in atftion, becaufe they were call:aut of Heaven before they could bring it intopractice, therefore it mult be a fin of thethought.Now, them fin was this, their habitationoc.ng m the bnghteft heaven, next under Godhtmlelf, they bad exceeding great light andtnovvledge, they had more knowledge than'll the men in the world ever had, and weretappy above all other creatures, bui whenblwS c°utended vchh this efiate, theybought to be as high as God himfelf, theri-|ore malic, on fly fought to n.ake war againfthe Ton of God and put him out of his throne-or which caule they were immediately tbruft>ut of heaven, never more to fee the face ofmrcy. Thus their fin being of the fame Na¬me with the fin again ft the Holy Ghoft, theyvere excluded all hopes of pardon. 72. This[ IC 3.a. This fin may brcommitccl in vvorcl toothat is, when a man {peaks blafphemoufiyand malicioufly of Chrill and his holy ways:This was the fin of the Scribes and Ptiarifees,M aik iii. 22. Therefore Chi ill faith untothem, as in ver. 28. and 29.Now the reafon of this fpeech of onr blef-fed Saviour, is (hewed in v. 30, they faidhe has an unclean Jpirit; which plainly (Lewsthat thefe Scribes and Pharifees had fpokenhlafphemy againll the holy Ghotl. 'i’hcfeScribes were great learned men, and they couldknow no other but that Chrilt was the fon otGod, and they knew, that he call out devilsby the fpirit of God ; and yet out of fpite toChrill, malTcioufly and blafphemonfly laid,That he ca/l out devils by Belzebub, the chiefof devils. Thus thefe Scribes committed theunpardonable fin againll the Holy Gholt,and that in word.3. This fin may be committed in atfliontoo; that is, when a man being once thorough¬ly enligtned, and entered into a holy courfeof life, and tailed of the comforts of the fpi-rir, and had fome foretalle of the joys ofheaven, and not only makes a profellion ofthe gofpel, but leaches it to others; he atlall takes a dillike of thefe holy comics, andthrough fpiie and malice utterly lorfake, op-pofes and perfecuics thefe good ways ot Godwhich he before profelt and taught. Put tofinn up this point, this unpardonable fin a-gainll the Holy Ghoft is fully delcrib’d by theb ' ApolUeiI II IjoHle to the Hcbr" chap. x. 27, 28, 29-.kewife, Heb. vi, 5, 6.Now the fin agnhift the Holy r.hoft is brief*tit is •• It is a viilful and tnalicious oppofing of'e hv.iuu V nth, joined -with final apoflacy.This fin onto death is an oppofin'r finto" to op pole a thing h to contiaditfi it, orunf'ay it: when a ntan fays a thing is fo and, he denies ir and fays it is not fo; whenthing mnfl be done, he fays again, It mult>t. no- Ih.iH not he done : But a man may* an oppofing man, and yet cannot committis fin. Therefore,I. ft is a truth that he muft oppofe, that’ he mud utterly oppofe and rejrtft Chrill,ho raid, l am the Truth John xiv. 6. He op.>feth all his threatnings, and will not believes promiles, and counts him to be a feducerthe people, and counts the blood of the co¬olant to be an unholy thing; nay, he al-oppofes the Spirit of Clnift, who is the Spi-of nuth; fo that he will not obey his mo¬ons, and will not he led or guided hy ijiru ;1. t a man maX oppole the truth, and vet doignorantly. Therefore,2. It mull be a known truth that heopoof.h, he muft bt once enlightened: But youIM know, that it is not only a notional know-:lge. and human learning; he may knowrcl) °' God, and of his will in the letter ofe word, and yet .not capable of committingthistWs unpardonable fin : But he mull be fo farenlightned as to fee the evil that is in fin, andthe excellency of Chrifl ; be mujl talle of theheavenly gift, and be made partaker of theH*ly Ghojt. and tafle of the good word ojGod, and the powers of the woild to come,and by the blood of the covenant, which hecounts as an unholy thing, he is in part fane-tified and cleanfed from many fins ; he multhave f\Yeet coimminion with God in his wordand facranients; he mud have fame talle ofthe love and favor of God, and comforts of hisSpirit, and be refrefhed by it; and talle of thejoys of heaven, and have fome foretalte of the:happinefs of the world to come.4 He tnufl oppofe the known truth wil¬fully, he mult wilfully fall away after.he hathireceived the knowledge of the truth; otherfins are committed thro’ infirmity, but thisfin is wilful, the will is chief adtwr in it.And to compleat and make up this unpardon¬able fin, there is,5. Malice in the heart: Without this, thisfin cannot be committed ; it mull be a malici¬ous oppofing of the known truth.Now, a man having gone this fir, he comesin the lull place to he an spoliate : Now, forfuch a one, willfully, Ipitefully and maliciouflyto fall away, he fo falls as never to rife moreit is true, the children ol God fall and thatoften, and yet rife again : But then they fallthrough weakoefs or infirmity, and not wilful-tand malicioufly: Bui thefe wicked wretches11 wilfully and malicioufiy, and lo fall finally:gainft fucb, the door of mercy is ever flint,oncerning Inch St Peter fpeaketh, 2 Pet. ii.22. There is fitch another dreadful placeFfcripture againfl thefe apoflates, that is,eb. x. 26.Objection. But vjhat is the rcafon then,biit this fin cannot be forgiven ?Anfiv, The reafon arifes from the nature ofhis fin ; for this fin by whemfoever it is com¬mitted, hardens the heart, and fears the con-cience, fo that there is no pi ice for repen¬tance to be wrought, neither tor that nor anyther fin. This fit is called a fin again!} theioly Ghofl, becaufe it is a fin againfi the»ei fon of the Holy Ghofl; fo is all fin agdnftds perfon ; but it is called a fin again If theioly Ghofi, bec.iufe it is againfl the officeml work of the Holy Gholt. Mow, everyme of the three perfous ii ve their particularsorks; The work of the Father is to create;he work of the Son to redeem loft finner';ind tlie work of the Holy Ghofl is to enligh-en, convince, fanftify, and convert them.Iijow, a man committing this unpardonable fingainlt the Holy Gh .ft, rejetfh all this workf the Sjurit. Now, for a man i<> fie tho-oughly eniightned by the Holy Ghoft, thatle comes to know the evil of (in, and of hisoft and undone condition without Ch ill, andhat none but. the merits of Chrift can favetini; then for him wilfully and malicioufly tooypofe-'1r , • fM]oppofe Inm and the work of his Spirit, amwill not T>e beholden to him for f^Ivuionnow for fuch a one to be forgiven, is ntterljimpoffible.Obj. But -why is it impofdle, nothing; is i,„pojjible -with God ? £Aiifxv. A. man through ignorance may deny€bri(t, and maliciooflv fall from the protedi-on of the truth into all wickedneR at did St:Paul, and tlte Jews [ha, crucified Chrifl, andyet not falling againll linht jud knowledge*there is room for the Holy Gl oli to work &ij~pon him to enligl ten him and to convince:him of his folly, and fo make way far couver-fioti. And befides, a man after he hath beenenlightened, and yet falls back through infir¬mity and weaknefs of faith, as Peter did, anddoth not fv| wilfully and malic onfly thenthe Holy Gbott may work upon him, andwork in him a deep forrow for abiding fo.much love and mercy, and lb carry on in'sgood work unto falvation. But for a manwhen he is once enlightened by the Holy Gholt,and has had fome tafte of God’s love and fa-Tbar, and fome foretafte of the joys of hea¬ven; and then at Jail utterly oppofmg thisilluminajting work of the Spirit, and wilfullyand maliciotifly to fall away, and fo to rejedtthe Spirit’s renewing work: alas! then theHoIyChofi has done, he has nothing more thathe can work in him, for this wretched crea¬ture has utterly rejected him, hi* enlighteningwork, Ins convincing work, his iandfifyingwork.ll/Qrk, he hath uuttrrly rrjccictl Chlift’s par-'on, heaven and all now, this poor wretch5 pall all hopes of mercy, all hopes of pardon,iay, for fuch a one we are forbidden to pray,s we fee in the text, wherein my text is anit. Now Chritl praved for them who ma-icioufly crucified him, Luke xxiil. 34. faying,Ytitbi-r, forgive tbnn, for they know not whatbty da. Alas! they knew not what they wereWing, for had they known it they would not<ave crucified the Lord of glory, 1 Cor. ii. 8,’ut if they had known, and yet crucifiedlim, C.hrift would not have fpeut his breatho pray for them ; for when a man has com-niited this unpardonable fin, neither theirayers in heaven or on earth can do him a-ty good ; for as the text faith, there is ain unto death.I fiaall conclude with a few words of Ap¬plication.1. Watch very diligently againfl all fin but'hove all take fpecial heed of tbofe fins that(one near to the fin acainft the Holy Ghoff;md they are thefe, hypocrify, taking the out-vard profeffion of religion, and fo difTemblingimi mocking of God finning willfully agamfi:■onviction of confcience, and againfl greatight and knowledge, finning prefumptuouflymd with an high hand. Thefe fins tho’ none>f them are the diredt fin againfl the Holyjhofl, yet they will come very near to it:rherefore take fpecial heed of them, lefl theythrough.. C *6 ]through time fliuuSd bring you to the coibrattling of ,this finpardohaBfe^ fin. And,2. Labour to be fincere in religion: Andby a true faith, ingraft vourfel e* into Chriftfor they that be with C brill, can never com mithis unpardonable fin ;for, know this that a.raongft all the fins committed by- fallen ma#.kind, there is one fin that is a fin unto deathwinch is the unpardonable fin againll the HolyGhrfft:; which, vvholbever commits it, hath noforgivenefs; neither in this world, nor in th.eworld to come.I defire you to take your biBles, and fearclithe phces of fcripture here cited, and theLord give you underllanding in a^l the/e