DTHE jCOMICAL SAYINGSOF*PADY FROM CORK,jjWTTH HIS COAT BUTTONED BEHIND:KBeing an Elegant Conerence betwixt EnglishTOM and Irish TEAGUE:—with PADY’sI Catechism, his Opinion of Purgatoryj the Stateof the Dead,—-and his Supplication when a!j Mountain Sailor.Edinburgh, printed by J. Morren.2 COMICAL Sayings of PADY from COTUv,Tom.PART I.Cl GOD morrow Sir, this is a very cold thy.A Teag. Ana, deir honey, yefternight wasa very cold morningTpm. Well broti cr traveller, of what nation arj; thou ?Ttv.g. Arra dear llioy I came from my own kingdomTom. Whs iir, I know that but where is thy kingdomTeag.^Allelieu^dtar honey, don’t you know Gork itIreland ?(Tom. O you fool. Cork is not a kingdom but a city.Ttag. 1 hen dear honey I am fure it is ra a kingdomTom. And what is the reafon you have come and leiyour own dear country.Teag. Arra, dear honey, by fliaint Patrick, they havget fuch comical laws in our country, that they’ll putrnan to death in perfect health ; /or to .be free and plaiwith you neighbour, I was obliged to came away fordid not chu>e to flay among such a people that can haiija poor man when they pleafe, it bje either flcals, robs ckills a man. ,Tom. Ay. but I take you to be more of an honefl mathan to iieal, rob, or kill a man.Teng. Honeit; I am perfectly honed, when I was ba child my mother would have truiled me wills a houfefof mi 11 ftones.Ti m. What was the matter was you guilty of nothing,Teag. Arra dear honey, I did barm to no body , b<tfancied an old gentleman s gun and afterwards mademy own.Tom. Very well boy, and did you keep it fo.Teag. Keep it I tvould have kept it with all my hear■while I liv’d death itself would not have parted us, buthe old rogue the gentleman being a juflice of the petehitnfclf had me tried for the rights of it, and haw I camby it and fo took it again.Tom. And how did you clear yourfelf without punilhment. r i-Teag. Arra dear honey, I told them a parcel of lies:but they would not believe me, for I faid that I got ifrom my father when it was a little piftol, and I hat~v * a "" 4f i * r • * '~rPAV)Y, 7 - *j.-erped it till it had grown a ^uii, and defigned to ufe itJrell u^itil it had jrowii a big cannon, and then ieil it tothe military. They all fell a laughing at me as I adaeen a fool and hid me go home to my mother and cleanihe potatoes.jTom. And how long is if (ince,you left yopr, own counry ?] Teag. Arr^, dear l).qnp> I do not, naji/d wl ether it befortnight or four mouth?, butf 1 think, m-frlf it is aong time, they tell me my mother is dead linde, but'Twon’t believe k niMildhd, g^,a SeyS&.ftom ji^r o n#ha id,■ or file is a very great Rholar luppoTy Hie, <anv.peith«r read:'.or write. ,! ‘Tom- \Vas you ever io E^gl .^efore ?j! Tc’ag., Ay;that I was and.in. j^Qotl^id. ted.' _Tom, And were tiiey hind, to, yon when you was inScotland fTeag. Tfeey were that kind thit they kicked my arfenor me, and the reafon was hecaufo .I would not pay theijvhole of the liquor that was deymk in the company, tho’i.ho landlord and hh two for^ got mputhfull.about of ifithey would have me pay it ail tiro’ 1 did not drink't all,|. told them it was a trick upon travellers, firfl to driuki heir liquor and then to hick thr.ni out of doors.’ Tom. I really thin.; they ukd you badly, but couldj'9V heat.pliem.Tesg. Tnat’s what I^diu, b#at them all to their own1 onteatment; but there was one of them Wronger thanne, who would have killed n e if tlie other two had notlulled me a fy, and 1 had to run for it till his pafliotiv s over ; then triey.madtj us drifik and gree again , wehook hands and m de a batgait] "eye^ to harm othernote . but this bargain did not la/t for as I was killingis mouth by fhaint Patrick f oit his nole, which caufed' lim to beat ipe for toy pains.i Tom. Well Pady, what calling was you when in Scot*va-nu.?. _ o r •I Teag: Why fir I ,was np bufiytR at all; but whatloyou call the , retn tree that’s like a whin-uulh, many"people makes a thiiipi fO Ayeep th« hot fe with it iUcm, Q yes they ca 1 it a bioom.4PADY FROM COKK.Teag. Ay, ay, you lia^e it, then I a reutl^nai.’sbrooHi only waited on his horfea, and wafted the diftesfor the cook : and when my mafterrode a hunting, I ranbehind along with the dogs.T«m. O yes Pady, it was the groom you ‘mean, butI fancy you was cook’s mate or kitchen-boy.Teag. J?0, t'.O, it was lltr broom that 1. was, and if Ihad ftaid ihfire'ttll'ftow, l nri^; lit have teen advanced ash'.oh as mv mailer, fdi the ladies loved nie fo well, thatIJyQ llalU JLiJC'C kill ^ i ini^nt. Have 1 CHI c.Shigh as my mailer, ftji the ladies loved nic fo well, tltatthey laughed at me.Tom. They might admire you for a fooli’Te?g. What fir do you imagine that I am not a fool,no, no, my mailer sJhccLc'ounfd of me in ell his. matters,and I always gave him ‘rfjaftns for every tbi«g, 1 toldhim one morning ts at heWerit too foon to the hunting,Ltliat the hares wero not got out of their beds ; and nei¬ther the barking of horn;, nor blowing of the dogs ton Idmake them rife, it w. s fuel’, a cold morning that night;fo they all ran away tfi.’t wTcatched, when we did notfee them. I hen my mailer t. Id my words to fcveral gen.tlemen that was in at dinner with him, and they admiredme for want of wifdom, faj ing; I was certainly a man ofgreat judgment, for my head was ail of a lump, and sddedtbeV werq going a-tiflung alont with my mailer and mein the afternoon ‘ but I told them, ft was a very unhappything for any man to go a hunting in the morning and a-,fifting in rite fternoon ; yet they would try it ; but theyhad better fhid at home, for it came on a moll terriblefine night of fouth-weft rain and even down wind; fo thefifties got *11 in below the water to keep them diy from thefiiower, and «’« catched them all. but got none of them.Tom. And how long did you ferve that gentleman ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I was w'ith him fix weeksand he beat me feven times.Tom. For wlm did he beat you ? was it for youtmadnefs and foolilh tricks ?Tom. Dear (hoy, it was not, but for being too inquifitive and going Amply about buiinels. Firft, lie ieirme to tlu poll office, to enquire if there was any letterrfor him; fo when I came the.e laid I, is there any let¬ter* here for my mailer to day ? 1’htn they aiked me winwas my mafter; fir, faid I, it is very bad manners in youPADY FROM CORK. 5ji , t - • , - ■ -,4j to afk any gentleman’s name. At tliis they laughed mockwj i»;r me, and laid, thry would give me n-nie it I would not| tell my mafler’s name; fo J returned tr> my rnafter and, j tojd.thq ipapud^nce ot the’felly ^, how .he would, give .meno letters unltfs I would te 1 them your name, mafler. My; mafler at this dew in a great paflion and kicked me d >wnj ilairs, faying, go you rogue and tell my name directly ;[i Jkjw can the gentleman give letters, when he knows no,who is slicing tor them. 1 hen l returned and told myij pi a Her’3 name, fo they told me there was on:: for h'im ; ftj looked at it, being very f'niall, ,nd aiking the price of it,! thty, told .ovtdt-waa fixpcnce ; fispence, faid-lv will youl take lixpence foe that fan 11 ihing and felling bigger onesa .for twopence, faith I am not fuch 1 big foci, )ou think tofi iehcat me, now this is ne t ^ cotif. i inable way of dealing,I I’ll acquatut my matfer of it firli ; fo I came and told himII how tiny would hav lixpence for his letter, and was felling[| bigger ones for tw< {jer.ee, he took up my head and broke[ his cane with it, calling me a thoufand fools, faying, thei man was more jail than to take any thing but the rightn for it: but 1 was lure there was none of the tight buyingand felling furh a.dear pennyworth; fa I came again for1 roy dear fixpeuce lettei ; and the fe.low was (IcufUing» throuih a pare ! of them fteking for it again, to makeff the bell of a dear market. I picked up two, and home: I comes to my mafier, I thinking he would be weltt; .pleated with what 1 had doiie^ now,, fgid 1, n{after, I4 think l have put a trick on them felljws for felling thei letters jo dear to yen What have you done ! faid he,1 faid I l.’fc only ' ken two other letters; here’s one forn yon, mailer, to help your dear pennyworth, and I’ll) fend the other to my mother, to fee whether fhe’s dead1 or alive, for (lie’s always angry I don’r write to her,j I Ind not the word welt fpeken till he got up his flick1?.ud beat me Jivartily.for.it and font, me back to the fel¬low again wi h the two ; l had very ill will to go, buti nobody would buy them ot me by the way.; Tom. A well Pady, 1 think you wat to blame and,] your matter too, for lie ought to have taught you how toI^ODYJRQM CORK.own to be tcacbcd by I’.im or any body elfe. be bega;to inftruct .me after fb^t 'ho* I fhould ferve the tableand fucb ndfiy things as their ; oce night t took benroafted nib in ohe hand, an4 3 piece of bread in the ather‘ the old gt‘ntlcma;T was fo'iaucy ire VHotlld not takit, and told pit I Ihouil bring nothing to him vvithoua trencher bflovv it; the fame night he was going ft jbed, be called for his slippers and a pifb-pdt, fo I clapin a trenchct hr low the pifh pot and another belov/ tbslippers and bin I goes, one in evety hand; no loofitdid I enter the room, then he. threw the pifh-pot at mewhich breke both my head and the piQi-hot at one blowitow laid I' 'the "dVvir is in my rcfiller alfbgrther, fewhat he commands at one time he countermands-at another. Next clay I went with' Him to the market to bub;a hack of potatoes, I went unto the poattOe monger antsfked what he took for the full a Scomh cog he weighed them in, he asked no lefs than fourptfrice; feiirpcne*ib>d I were but in Dublin, I could get tire full o;tfiat lot nothing, and in Cork and Kinfale fat cheaperthem is but fmall thkjgi like piale, Did I, but the pdtat'oee in my country is as big as your he^d^'fine meatall made up in bldTed mouthfuls ; the potatoe'-mercharicalled me a liar and my nailer called'me a fool, lb the©nr fell a kicking rite and the other* a cufurig me. * wasin fuch bad bread between tfenfthat'l cillcd ihyfelf botha liar and a fool to get out alive.1 cmi. And how did you carry your potatoes homefrom the market ?: eag. Arra dear (hoy, J carried the hbrfe mid t-hentiboth, befides a <nig loaf and two bottles ot wine : for fput t e old hoflt on my back and ‘drcVvc the potatoesbefore me: and wnen I tied tilf load td tire (oaf 1 hadjiotlini' ado but to carry the bottles in mydisud, but badlu° k >o the way as i came honft, for a nail out of thehe 1 or m fa fp/iu g-a -leak in'my.r-rog, which prickedthe very Done bruited the skin, and made my very brogitl'clt to biood:*, and b bavirg neffan-imer'by me but ahatchet 1 left at home. I1'had to btrd down the nail iiththe bottom oi .the' bottle'-; and by : thb book,1 dear (boy,'it- broke to-pieces’, :ind icattered the v.ine iirmy nlouth.PADY FJIOM CORK.7i Toin. And how did yen recompence j'our inaKer forj the lof, of’ your bot;le of wine.j Teag. Arra, dear {hoyv I had a mind to cheat himI and myfelf too for T took the bottle away to the black-,1 Aniih and delired him to mend ,it, that I might go toi the butcher and get it foil of bloody water, but he toldj me he could not work in any thing but Heel and iron,ij Arra. faid I, if I were in my own kingdom, 1 could get:j a blackfmith who could make a bottle out of a Hone andij a (lone out of nothing.i! lorn. And ho\v d'd you trick your mafier out of the»j Wine i *.) . Tcsg. Why the .ol i.rnan began, to chide me, aAingij me how I broke it. tl\en I held up the other ar high as myd head, and let it fail on the ground on a done which brokeu it ail to pieces likewile ; no * laid 1, mafier, that's the way,is and then ne beat me very heartily, until I hud to fhoutti out murder and mercy, all at once.1 oni. Why did you not leave him when he ufed youil fo badly ?d Teag. Arra dear fuoy I could never think to leave himH while l could cat, he gave me fo many good victuals, andpromifed to prefer in. to be his o-'. n bone picker; butiby Ih.iiht Patrick,' I liad to run bvvp.v with my life or all« was done, el!e I had loft my dear (houi and body too, by: him, and then, I came home much po orer than I went(away. The great big bitch dog that was roy matier’s:beH beloved, put in hyr head into a pitcher to lick outijfome milk, when it was in Hie could not get it out,;i?nd I to lave •.he pitcher got the hatchet and cut off the■1 dog’s he :d, and" then 1 had to break the pitcher beforeJl get out the head, by this I loll both the dog and theipitciier. My mailer, hearing this, fw.orc he would cutthe head oil me, for the poor dog was made ufelcfs anducould not fee. to follow any body for want of his eyes ;and when. 1 heapd.cd this, 1 ran away widi my own head,for if I lad wanted it, I nad loll my eyes too then Iwould not have feen the road to Port Patrick, throughiOlennap, but by (haint Patrick, 1 came Viomc alive idfpite ol than all.Tom, U rarely done, Putty, you bek.avcd li};c a manPAUY FROM CORK.8’but w! at is the reafon that you IriiTi people Rvear alwaysby fhaiut Patrick, what i> he this (haint Patrick.Teag. Arra clear honey, he was the beft fhaint in theworld, the father of all good people in the kingdom, he•has a great kiadnefs for an Irifhman, when he hears himcalling on his name ; he was the firfl that fowed the pota¬toes in Ireland ; for he knew it was a bit of good fat groundit being a gentleman’s garden befors Noah’s flood.Tom. Put dear Parly, is fnaint Patrick yet alive thathe bears the Irirti people when they fpeak of his name.Teag. Arra dear honey, I don’t know whether he isdead or alive, but it is a long time {luce they killed him Jthe people turned all heathens, but he could not changehis profeflion, and was going to run the country with itand for taking his gofpel awry to England, fo the barbareus lories of Dublin cutoff his head ; and what do youthink he did when his head was off.Tom What could a dead man do, you fool ?Teag. Dead, faith he was not fuch a big fool Ss to dyet: he fwimed over to England after this, and broughthis head along with him.Torn. And how did he. carry his bead and fwitr too.Teag. Arra'dear honey, he carried Ids head in his teethTorn. No Pady, it won’t hold—I muft have cautionfor that-Teag. If you won’t believe me, I’ll fvvear it over againJieTomAnd howTecg.P A R T II.dici > o o get fale out of Scotland at lafUBy the law, dear honey, when I caintto Port Patrick, and law my own Kingdom I thoughtI was fafe at home, but I was clean dead and almoildrowned before I could get riding over the water ; for Iwith nine or ten puffer,gers more leapt into a little youngboat, having but four men dwelling in a little houle iithe one end of it, v. Inch Was all thackecr with deals \ andalter they had pulled up her tether-flick, and laid he‘lung haltei over her mai e they pulled up a long big {heelike three pair of blanket;, to the liggen of the houfeand tne wind blew in that, which made her gallop up one |hill and down another, till I thought (he Would luve rucjPADY FROM CORK.9to the world’s end, if fome part of the world had notcatched her by the foot.Tom. I fancy, Pady, you was by this time very fick ?Tejg. Sick, *y, fick beyond ail ficknefs, clean dead asa door nail; for as I had lost the key of my backfide,I bocked up the very bottom of my belly, and I thoughtthat liver and lungf,and all that I had, dhould have gonetogether; then I called to the fellow that held by her tailbehind to pull down his fheet and hold her head, till I gotleifure to die and then fay my prayers.Tom. Well then, Pady, got you fafe afliore at laft ?Teag. Ay, we came afliorc very fall; but by lhaintPatrick, I (ball never venture my dear Ihoul and body infuch a young boat again while the wind blows out ofScots Galloway.Tom. Wei! then, Pady, and where did you go whenyou came to Ireland again ?Teag, Arra, dear flioy, and where did I go but to myown dear coulin, who was now become very rich by thedeath of the old buck his father, who died but a fewweeks before 1 went over, and the paiifh had to bury himout of pity, it had not to cod him a farthing. _Toni. Anil what entertainment or goo udfage did youget there, PadyTcag. O my dear fhoy, I was as kindly ufed as anothergentleman, for I told him I had made fomethingof it by mytravels as well as him ft If but I had got no money, there¬fore 1 had to work for my victuals while I (laid with him. *Tom. Ho, poor Pady, 1 iuppofe you would not daylong there.Teag Arra dear honey, I could have Raid there longenough: but when a man is poor his rritn s think littleof him : I told him i was going to Itc my br°ther Har¬ry : Harry, laid he Harry ii d.-ad ; dead, laid I, andwho kilteu him : Why, fjiu lie, death. Alldieu. dearhoney, aid where did lie kill bin. ? laid 1 : in his bed,laid he. O what for a cowardly -dfion was that, laid I,to kill a man in hia bed ; and what is this fellow, death,f.iid 1. Whut is he, hs is one that kills more than thehead butcher in all Cork does. Arra dear honey, la'41, it he hull buii on Ncvry mountains with his brogues20 PADY FROM CORK.on, ard his bread fword by Ids fide, all the death’s ih’Ireland had not killed him’ O that impudent fellow,d;ath, if he had let him alone till he had died for want ofiblitter milk and potatoes, I’m fure he would have lived'all the days of his life.Tom. In all your travels when abroad, did you never'see none of your countrymen to inform you of what hap*pened at home concerning your relations.Teag. Arra dear fhoy, 1 law none but Tom Jack, oneday on the ftreet; but when I came too him, it was nothim but one jull like him*Tom. On what account did you go a travelling ?Teag. Why a recruiting lergeant lifted me to De a cap¬tain, and aft r all advanced me no higher than a foldiei it-felf but only called me his own dear countryman recruit ;foj I did not know what the regiment was when J la#them. 1 thought they were all gre^t Gentleman s fons,and Collegeoners, when I law a box like a hible upon the rbellie’s ; but when TTaw G. ‘tor King’ Gebige upon it,and R. for God blifs him ; ho, ho, laid I, I lhant belong here.Tom. O then Pady you deferred from them ?Tcag. Ay that’s what 1 did and fun to the moiintd'nslike a w ild buck, and ever lince when I fee -any foldiersI clofe my eyes lead they fhould look and know me.Tom. And what exploits did you when you was afoldierfTeag. Arra deaf honey I killed a man.Tom. And how did you that ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, when hr dropt Ins fword, ldrew mine and advanced boldly to him, ami then cuttedclFhis foot.1 om. O then w.hat a big fool was you : for you oughtfirft to cut off his head ?Teag. Arra, dear (hoy ; bis head was cutted oft’beforet engaged him, elfe 1 had not done it,Tom. O then Pady you mfted lire a fool; but you arenot fuch a big fool as many take you to be, y ou mightpafs for a philofopher ?i'eag. A. fulu 11 fair, my father was a fulufifair, nefideshe was a man under great authority by law, condemning1PADY FROM CORK.IIthe juft and clearing the guilty, do you know how theycall the hrrfes mother.Tom. Why they call her a marc.Teag.. A. mare, a.ye very weH irundedj by fhaint Pa«trick my father was a mare in    Tom. And-wl^at riches was left you by the death ofyour mother ?Teag. A bad luck to’her'old barren belly, for (he livedin gr.at plenty and died in great poverty ; devoured up'all or (he died, but two Ivens and a pockftil of potatoes—a poor eftate for an Irifli gentleman in faith.Tom. And what did you make o'f.yqnr,benS/and.pota¬toes, did you fow them ?Teag. Arra dear rhoy, I fovved them in my belly andfold the hens to a cadger.Torii. And what bufmefs did your mother follow after?Teag. Greatly in the merchant way. ,yTom. And what forts of goods did fne deal in ?Teag. Dear honey the went through the country andfb 1 £ ThYa Tt. Fi fhes,' ohiows' and apples; bougl^jhens and eggs,and then hatched them hcrfelf. 1 renieniber of one longnecked cock die had of an over fea brood that flood on themidden and picked all the flais out of the yorth-wefl, fothe. vvereliever fo thick there lince,Tom. Now Pady tha'/s a bull furpafles all; but isthere none of die cock’s offspring alive in Ireland now ?Tea^. \rr.a d^ar (hoy I don’t think there are but itis a pity there had not, for they woultffly with people a*noye the lea which would p it the ufe of flnpi outoffalhi n,npti jthtre would be nopodj drown’d at fea at all.lom. Very wdl P dy ; but in ail yt-.ur travels didyou ever get a wife?Tyag. O thut’s what l did and a wicked wife too.’1 on). And what is become of lier now ?. le.’.g. Dear (hoy 1 can't tell whither (he is gone toPurgatory, Or the Parifh of fhgtrahVum, for (he told me(he wou d certainly die.thv Crfl opportunity (lie could get,as .ti is prof nt evil world was not worth the waiting on,(o Ihe would go and fee what good things is in the worldo come ; and \yhei] that old rover called the fever cameagmg like a madman over the whole kingdom knocking12PADY mOM CuRJwthe people on .th.e hea l with deadly blows, fliCj we^t and.died out of fpite, leading hit with nothing but two mo-tberlefs children.Tom- O but PaJy'you ought to have gon; to a dos-tor, and got fame'pills.and pin fic foO her.   1 ,1Ttag. By fliaun Patrick I had as good a pill of my Iown as any doftor in the kingdom could give he', andas for ftaedhing, (he never could ufe fnufF nor tobicco inher life.Torn. Q you fool that is not what I mean, you (might,have brought the dodlbr to feel her pulfe, and let bloodof her, if he thought it needrul. . .d'eag.“YbsVyea, -thaws'what f did ; fer I Tan to thedeftor whenever (lie died and fought fometking f .r adead or dying woman : the olfl foolilh d—1 was at his-dinner and began to alk me fome'dirty queflions, which Ianfwered diftinftty.Tom. And what did he afle Pady ?Teag. Why^ f.e asked me how did my wife go to ftool.To which I anfwered the fame way that otbej; .ystoinerngO'to chair n'o^faid h’e1, that's u'qt what ! mean, how doesfhe purge. Aria, mader dodlor, fa'd I all the fir* in Pur¬gatory won’t ptirge. her clean, for (he lias both a coldahd (linking breath. Sir, faid he, that’s not what Iask you, whether does (he fli : tlfck or thin. Arra,mafter dodlor, (aid I, it is fometimes fa thick and hardthat you may tike it in your hand and eat it like a pieceof cheefe oi pudding, and at oilier tim s you pray drinkit, or Tup it with a fpoon. At this he flew in a moll ter¬rible rage, kicked me do vn ftaire, and would give me no-thing to her, but called me a dirty (couiiirel for (peakingof (h 1 before LadiesTom. And was you furry when vour wife died ?Teag. Arra, dear (hoy, if any b >dy had beat me lwas fit to cry myfelf.Tom. And iu.whit good o/der did you bury your wifewhen (he died ?Tcag. O my dear fimy, fite was buried in all mannerof pomp, pride and fplendour; a fi te coffia and cords init, and within the coffin along with herfe’f, fhe go a pairof new brogs, a penny canile, a good barJ-iiealcd o/iFADY FROM: COUK.13h ammer, with an Irifh fixpenny p'ece, lo pay her pafTigeat the gate, and *hat mdre could file lock for.• Toni. I really think you gave her enough along wittiKer, 'liux you odgln to have cried for h;ri as if it »as nomore but to be in the falhion.Teag- And wl'y Ibould I cry without forrow, whet\»e hired two criers to cry all the way before her, to keepin the fafhion.Tom. And what elo they'cry before a dead woman ?Teag. Why, they tfy’ tl e common cry, or funeral la¬ment that is ufed in our Iriflt country.! (ir.f- :Toni. And what manner of cry is that Pady ?Teag. Dear Tom, if you don’t know I’ll tell you, whenany dies theie ie a number of criers before, faying, luff,luff, fou, alielnu, dear honey, what aileth thee to die, itwas not for want of good butter, milk .and potatoes.PART Ilf.rY' \ ]| y £-L,L Fatly, and wi.at’'did’you do whenTom. yy your wifc dicd ?Teag. Dear honey, what would I do ; cb you think Iwas fuch a big fool as to die too; I’m lu'-e if I had, lwould not have got fair play, when l am noi lb old yetas my father was when lie died.Tom No, lady, that is not what 1 mean, but wasyou forry, or did you weep for her ?Teag. Weep for her, by finamt Patrick 1 would n itweep lor her, nor yet be forry luppofe my own motherand all the Women m Ireland had Uied feven years before1 was born.Tom. What did you do with your children when (he.died?Tfag- Do you imagine I was fuch a big fool as burymy children alive along with a dead woman. Arra, dearhoney, we afoayt comnionly give irOtmrg along v uh adead peifon, let a;, old fhirt and a windmg-fhee:, a bighamn er, with a long ca; die and an Iiidi halfpenny piece.Tom. Dear Pady, aid what ufe co tiny make of alltb'F ? .feag. Then, Tom, fmee you arc fo iiiquihtiv.-, youmay go and afle the .prieft.i’ADY FROM CORK.Tom. Wnat did you make of your children then Pady ?Teag. And^vhn fhonld I iiiake of them, do you ima«:gimp tljac f Ihould give them into the hands of the but¬chers as they had been a parcel of young hogs, by IhainfPatrick, I had mote unaturality in me, than putthemin-ttr any.hofpital as others do t •Tom. No, 1 fuppofe you would leave them with yourfriends ere you came away.Teag. Ay, ay, a poor man’s friends is fometimes wot fethan a prbfelVed enemy: the heft friend I ever had; in theworld wasmy own,pocket while «?y money laiifd;; butI left my two babe- between the prieft’s door, and theparilh church, becaufe I tliough: it was a place of mercy»and then let out to England in quell of.nnothcr, fortune.Tom. And did you not take good night with yourfntends ere } ou came away.? / : ,Teag. Arra dear honey I had no friends in the worldbut an frill) half crown, and I'would have been very for-fy YcJ have''parted with fuch a dear poiitet itpipp^hion at,fuch a time. ,T( m. I fancy Paciy you came off with what they calla mooi'-fliine Siting ? .'J'eag. You lie like a tiiief ,;opq for I did not fee fun,,moon, nor ibis all th»- night then; for I let out from(iork at the daw n of night,:and I travelled twenty malesand but twelve before glooming in the morning.Torn. And'where old you go to take (hipping ?n'eng. -Ur^t dear honey, 1 came to a country village, .erdied Dublin; as big a city as any market town in allEngland, where I got mylelf on board a little young boat,wkh a parrel of fellows and a longllesther bag I fuppqledthem to be tinkers until 1 afkcd what thev carried there inthat leather bag ; they told me it was the Englifli mailthey were going over with- then faid I. is the milns fofcartt in England, that titt y mull fend over their worn toIreland to grind it ; the comical cunning teU ws perfuadedrre it was f), tlun I went do t n ton little h>ufc below thevater, hard by the rigg back of the boat, and laid me ^down on the leather lack, where l flept myielt ainioft ,ta ideath with l unger. And dear fom, to'tell you plainly,when I awaked, I did not know where i was,, bat thoughtPADY PROM CORK.I was dead and buried, for, f found nothing a!! aroundme but wooden walls and timber above.Tom. And how did you come ;q yotiifclf to knowWhere you was at laft ?Teag. By the law dear hooey, I feratcbed my head ha hundred parts, and then ftt me down to think uponit, fo I minded it was my wife that was dead, and notme, and that I was alive in the young poll boat, with thefellows that canics over the Euglidi meal to the Irilhmilns.Tom. O then, Pady, I am fire you was glad when1yon found yottrfelf alive ?Tcag. Arra dear ihoy, I was very fure I was alme,but 1 did not think to live long, fo I thought it wasbetter fbr me to Heal a*td be hanged than to live all mydays and die direclly of hunger at laft.1’oni, What had you no me-.t for money along withyou ?Teag. Arra dear fhoy, l gave all mV mooeV to thecaptain of the houfe, or goodman of the fhip to carry meinto fea or over to England, and when I was lik? toeat my old brogues for want of vicinal’, 1 dr w mylunger and cut the locks of ilrir leather f ck, tninkingto get a lick of their meal; but alielieu deir iho,, [found neither meal nor feeds, but a parfel of papers andletters, a poor morfel indeed for a hungry man.Tom. So then Pady you laid down your honefty fornothing.Teag. Ay, ay, I was a great thief, but got nothing to(leal.Tom. And how did you come to get vidluals at I-ft ?Teag. ADelieuftlear honey, the thought of meat anddrink, death or life, and every thing elle was out of mymind, 1 had not a thought but one.Tom. And what .was that Padv.1 eag, To go down among ihe fifties and become awhale, then I woiild have lived an eafy life all my days,having notoi-ig to xlo but drink lalt water, and eat caller©yfters.1 oiu. What, Pady was you like to be drowned again,PADY FROM CORK.Te»g. Ay, ay, drowned, as clean drowned as a fifb,'for the fea blew very loud, and the wind ran fo high,that we'wcre all cad away fafe on Ihore, and not o-ne ofus di owned at all.Tom. And where did you go when you came on fltore?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I was not able to go anywhere, you might have cad a knot on my belly, I was fohollow in the middle : fo I went into a gentleman’s houfeand told them the bad fortune I hid of being drownedbetween Ireland and the f >ot of his garden, where wecamc all fafe cn fhore. But all the comfort I got fromhim was a word of truth.Tom. And what was that. Pady ?Teag. Why, he told me if 1 lnd been a gaod boy athome, 1 need not tn have gone fo far to pudi my for¬tune with an empty packet- To which l anfwered, andwhat fignifies that, as long as I am a good workman atno trade at all.Tom. I fuppofe, Fady, the dentlerfhn would najke youdine with him ?Tcag. I really thought I was. when I faw them toad-5:«.g and fkinning lo many black chickens winch was no¬thing bnt a few dead crow- they were going to eat: ho,ho, faid I, them ia but dry meat at the belt, of all the;fowls that flies, commend me to the wing of an ox, butall the*, came to my (hire, was a piece of a bailed her¬ring and a roaiied potato-, that was the firft oit ot meatJ ever ate in England.Tom. Well 1’ady, what bufimfs did you follow afterin England when you was fo poor ?1 i-ag. What fir do you imagine I was fo poor when Irime ovtr on fuch an honourable occaiion as to lilt andbring tnyfelf to no preferment at all. As 1 was an able-bodied man in the fact, 1 thought to be made a biigi-dier, a grenadier or a htzziiitr, or even one ot themb'ue gowns that holds the fiery (lick to the bung-hole oftire big cannons, when t -cy let them .<>lt to fright awaythe French ; 1 wis a? Ere as no marr alive, ere I camefrom C ik, tire lead preferment I could get, was to bei (din ,- TiaUcr to a regiment of marines, or one of theblack hai fe itfclf.PAD FROM CORK. 17'I om. V/ell, Pady ,yon feem to be a very clever littlejirao. to be all in one body, wh^t height are you ?leag. Arra, dear Ihoy, I’m feet nothing at all butd one inch.Tom. Arra, dear Iboy, I was going through that littleI country village the famous city of Cheiler, the ftreets wasI very fore by reafon of the bardnefs of my feet, and thelameDffj of my brogs, but I went but very flowly acrofsthe (Ircets, Irom port to port is a pretty long way, butI being weary, thought nothing of it; then the peoplecame all crowding to me, as if I had been a world’s won¬der, or the wandering Jew ; for the rain blew in my laceand”the wind Wetted all my f>elly, which taufed me toturn the backiide ol my coat before and the buttons be¬hind, which was a good faftguard to my belly, and theftarvation of my naked back, as I had not a good Ihirton my back.■Tom. I am fure then, Pady, they would take youfor a fool ?1 eag. No, no, fir, they; admired me for my wifdom,for I always turned my buttons before when the wind blewon behind ; but I wonder greatly how the people knewmy name and where I came from , for every one toldanother that was Pady from Coik, I fnppofc they knewmy lace by feeing my name in the newfpapsrseTom. Well, Pady, whet bulinefs did you follow inChefler ?Teag. To be.Cure I w.as net idle working at nothingat all, until a recruiting ferjeant came to town with twoor three fellows along with him, one beating on a fiddle,and another playing on a*drum, toiling their airs throughthe ftreets as if they were go ng to be mairied ; and 1 fawthem courting nothing but young men ; fo to bring my-lelf to no preferment at all, I lifted for a foldier, becaufoI was too high for a grenadier.Tom. And uhat lilting money did you get, Pady ?Teag. Ain, dear honey, i got five thirt-ens and -a pairof Enghfh brogs, the guineas aid the red cf the goldwas fent away to London to tte king my matier, to buvme new Hurts, a cockade, and common tealing ,o :ny hat.P DY FR~M CORK.18tint they made me fwesr the malicious oatli of dcvilrieagsinft the King the colour's, and niv captain, telling meif ever I delert and no: run away. th-'. I (hon'd be Ihot,and then whipt to death throngii tlie regiment.T rtn. Pady, it ts frrit tvhtpt and .then (hot youmean ?Teag. 4-rra dear fit'.y it is all one thing at laft, butit is feed to be (hot and then whipt, the elevereft way todie I’ll warr'nt yen.Tom. How much pay did you get Pady ?,Teag. Do you know the little fat tall ferjeaat thatfeed me to be a foldier ?Tom. And iiow (hail I know them 1 never faw, youfool ?Teag. Dear (hoy. you may know him whether youfee him or not; for his face is a 1 bored in big holes withth fi; all pox, Ins nofe is the colour of a ip'jfters toe,and his chin like a well cleaned potatoe ; beds the bigeftrogue in our kingdom you l know him when he cheatsyou and the wide world and another m irk Be dightshis mouth before he drinks and blows his nofe before hetakes a fnufF; the rogue heights me a fixpe ce a day, killor Ho’kill, and when 1 laid Minday and Saturday bothtogether and al the dt’js in one day. I cannot make apenny above (ixpe ce of it.Fom. Y u fh\uld have kept an account, and afkedyour arrea s nee a month ?1'eag. That’s what T did but lie-read, a pater-pofterout of his-prayer book wherein all our names are writ¬ten ; fo much for a (lop hold to my gun, buckles toa pair of con leal ham hofe, with leather buttons fromtop to toe, and word of all he would have no lefs than apenny a week to a dodfor; aria faid I, l never had afore finger or yet a lick toe all the days of my life, thenwhat have 1 to lo with the clodlor, or the doddor to dotilth the. 1 "Tom. Astd did lie make you pay all thefe things ?Teag. Ay, ay, pay and better pay; he took me beforeMs captain who made me pay all was in his book : Ana,in after captain, faid (, you are a comical fort of a fellow:you might as wcil make me pay for my coffin before l am'9PADY FROM CORK,. . ' ' V - . i ■ / . : . Idead, as to pay for a do&or before I be fick; to which.he anfwered me in a psihon.' firr*1i, faid iie, I liave feen,raauy a better man buried without a coffin j fir Paid I,then Pil have a coffin, die when I will if there be asnjHfh wood in all the world, or I flulj not be buried atall. , d hen he called for the ferjeint, faying, you fir-go. and bnijr that man’s coffin, and put it in the ftorc tillhe die and flop fixpencs a week off his pay for it. Nono, fir faid I, I’ll rather die without a coffin; and feekjnodc When I’m dead, but if you be for dipping anotherfijfpence 'off my poor pay keep it all to yourfelf, and I’llfwcar ail your oaths of agreement v/e had back again, andtheu.Xeek loldiers where you will.. Tom. O then Pady how did you end the matter ?Teag. Area dear Ihoy by the-mights of ffiaint Patrickand help of my own brogs, I both ended it and mepde'd.jt, for the next-night before that, I gave them leg bail formy fidelity, and then I went about the country a fortiine-£pjler, deaf and dumb as I was not.To.*j. How old was you Pady, when you was a foldier'lad ?' AV0? r ' i. —’ •,1 eag. Arra dear honey, I was three dozen all but two,and it is only but two years fincc, fb I wanted only fonYof:three dozen yet, and when l live fix doaeu more, I’llbe older than l am f’li warrant yotf.i.frTom. Q but Pady uy yohn account you are threedozen ot years already ?Teag. O what a big fool are you, now Tom whenyou count the yeais I lay fick; and that time 1 c&nftt 'ribttmemtafl..A NEW C A TECH I S M.Tom the ofMnibrtB'profefTed in feligipri, tel^hip. rov;. Paly, ot what proteffimi a^.t thou?Pady. Arra, dear (hoy, my religion was too weightya matter to carryout of my own country; I.was afraidthat you' Engtilh Presbyterians Ihould pluck it away fromme.Tom. What Pady, was your religion filch a load thatyou could not carry i: along with you f2o PADY FROM CORK*Pady. Yes, that it was. but I car tied it always aboHtme. when at home my fweft cro'8 upon my dea^ breaftj,bound to my blelt button ho'e.Tom. What manner of worfnip did you perform by that 3Paciy. Why [ adored my crofs, the Pope and the:prelb curfed Oliver as black as a crow, and fw.tars my-felf a cut-throat againd all ProtcHauls and church o£England men.Tom. And what is tl.ie ma'ter, but you vould be aichuncb of England man, or a Scots Presbyterian your-felf, ’ady ?Pady. Becaufe it is unnatural for an Jrifhman, buthatlhaint Patrick been a Presby’erian, I had been the fame.Tom- And for what reafou would you be a Pieshyterian t^en, Pady ? 'Pady. Bccatile they have libertr to eat flelh in Lentand every thing that is fit for the belly.Tom. What, Pady, are you fuch a lover of flefll thatyou would change your profelSon for it ?Pady. O yes that’s what I would, I love flefh of a!kinds, (beep’s beef, fwine’s mutton, hate s tlelh, an |hen’s venifon ; but our religion is one of the hungrieft iall the world; ahl but it makes! my teeth to weep anmy be # to water, when I fee the Scotch Presbyteriactiand Eoglifh churchmen^ in tripe of Lent, feeding upobull’s balla'ds and flu-ep s young children.I’cm. Why, Pady, do you fay the bull is a fornicateand gets bailards ?.Pady. Arra dear fhoy, I never faw the cow and hehusband all the days of coy life, nor yet before I w:born, going to the clmrch to be, marntd, and what tutcan his tons and daughters be but baft'ards.Tero. O Pady, Pady, ti e cow is but a cow and lb ayou ; Lut whattewaid will you get, when you are dcator puuifhing your belly Co while you are alive i1Pady. By ihaint Patrick I will live like a king warnam dead, for I will neither die for meat nor drink.Tom. Wliat, Pady, dp yon think that you are to,coialive again when you arc dead ? , •Pady. O Yes^ we that ate true lit man Ca;t.oUckPADY FROM CORK. 2ivill live a long Urns after we are dead, when we die inlove with the.'prhtts and the good psople of our pro-ftfliOIV .    " t ■■>•(*Tom. And what aflurance can yp.ir prieds give youof that ?Pady. Arra dear flioy. onr pried is a great lliaint anda goad flioul, he cn rejjeat a Pater Noller and Ave Mi-lia, which will i rig Inert the very horned devdl himfeif,and make him run lor it, until [he be like to fall andbreak his neck.Fom* And what dots hfc give you whin’ you arc dying,that makes you come alive again ?Pady. Why he Writes a letter upon our tongues, fealedwith a wafer, gives na a facrament in our mouth, with apardon, and addrettion in our right hand, who to call forat the portsci Purgatory.Tom. To whom df thevdiredl the dead ?Pady. Why, the Englifli Romans when they die, areall directed to flraint George, th ■ Scots to lhaiut Andrew,the Welfir to lhaint David, and our own dear country¬men muft every flioul of them go to fhaint Patrick : butthem that have no money to pay the priefl for a par¬don. and thofe that are drowned, or dia by themfelvesin tire fields without a priefl, is loll and lent away asblackguard fcouudrels, to wander up and down while theworld ilands, among the brownies, fairies, mermaids, tea-devils, and water-kelpies.Tom. And what money defign yon to give the prisflsfor your pardon ?Pady. Dear flioy, I w!!h I had fir ft the money hewould take for it, I would rather drink it uiyfelf, andthen give him both my bill and my honeft word, payablein the other world.1'om. And how then are you to get a pglTjge to theother world, cr who is to carry you there >Pady. O my dear (hoy, Tom, you know nothing oftire matter; for, when I die, they will huiry my body,flelh, blood, dirt and bones, only my fkin will be blownup lull of wind and fpirit, my dear fhoui I mean ; andthen I will be blown over to the other world on thewings of the wind; and after that I fhall never be killed,2Zi - ya. 'iPADY FROM COPK., .. . . : :u ‘ ‘ *hanged nor.drowned nor yet die in vny-bed, for wFenamone hits me a blow, my new body will buff upon ic.4iUa bladder ? ( j . . .:Tom. Rut what way will you go to that new; woflior where is it ? v () l - ! X1Rady. Arra dear fboy, the prieff .knows vvhlere it is, biI do nOjt, but the Pope of Romt k'-cps the outer parfliaint PatrijA the inner pott, and; “iivrs usi a diredlionbthe way to fhaint Patr’ck's palace, which ftands dn thh^ad ot rile Stygian Loch, w'n'Sr’e I 11 have no'more to'c, but chap at the gate. . . i.. .dfijTom, Wha,t is the need of chaping »t the-gate, is inot always opto i rJl s> * «> . .• . nilPady. Dear flioy, you know, littkrinbout it, for theis none ran enter there but red hot Irilhmen, for when Ical!-—“ Alleiieu dear honey, fhVmt Patricks coUntenanfjyour .own dear country man if yoii avail.’/ Thyn tl|gates will 'be opened direftly to me, for' he knov(and loves an Inlhman’s voice, as he loves his owlheart, . *• < lj f. 1rom. And what entertainment will you get wheh yetare in ? : . itPady. .0 my dear we are all kept there unto a gen-ral review which is commonly once ir, the week; airall the blackguard fcoundrcls is-picki-d out-of the rankland one half of them is fent away to the Eljfren fief}to,carry the weeds;from among the .potatoes the otkhalf of them to the river Hicks to catch Efhea for fhaiPatrick’s table; and all them tbet are owing the prietany money is put in tire black hole, and then given inthe hands of a g'cat black bitch of a devil, which thkeep for a haiigman, who whips them.up and down tifmoky dungeon every morning for fix months,1 them hoitheir bare back fide to a fire, until their hips be allone blitter, sod after all they are lent away to the poparilh of Pigtrantrum, where they’ll get nothing totbut cold fowens, b.urgue and butcer-mrU",Tom. And where does your good people go when thare parted from the bad ?Pady. And where, would you have them to go, 1:PADY FROM CORK.unto fhaint Pat ick’s palace, and then they may grt downthe back flairs unto the garden of Eden now calledP radice ; ah ! Tny dear (hoy this is the real fundamentaltrums of our Romifh Religion and a deep do&rine- it is,but your Prtfbtterian and EnglWh churcinpr-i will notbelieve it and by fliaint Patrick neither can I, until 1 feejnore of it come to pafs.Tom. And what manner of lives eioes your priefls or¬der you to live in thj vvorld to come ?. Pady. Arradear f I icy if I had money enough to buypardons from our priefts I might commit all the lies for¬bidden in our holy books, as he gives them a tolirationto lie and cheat all the world, but thofe of our own pro-fellion.Tom. What Pady are you not to do as much jufticeto a protefhnt as a prieft.Pady. O my dear (hoy, the mod juft'ce we are com¬manded to do to a pro:edant, is to whip and torment themtill they confcPs themfelves in the Romifh Faith, and thencut their throats that they may d.e believers.Pom. And what bufinefs do you follow after at pre¬fect Pady. Arra dear (hoy, 1 am a mountain failor audmy fupplkation is as follows.Pady’s Humble Petition, or SuppucATiotf.GOOD Chriftian people, behold me a man, who hascome through a worldtof wonders, a hell full ofhardfhips, dangers by fea and dangers by land and yetlam alive, joii may fee my hand crooked • like foalsfoot, and that is no woader at all cGiifluering rnyings and great forrows: oh! oh! good people I was aman in my time who had plenty of the gold, plenty ofthe filver, plenty, of the clothes plenty of the butter,the beer, beef and bifejuet. And now now, T hav ■ ho-thiog, being taken by the Turks, and relieved by theSpaniards, lay fixty fix days at the fiege of Gibraiter, andgot nothing to eat but fea wreck and raw muffels, thenputto fea for our fafety, was caft upon the Barbarian coaft,among the woef.l wicked Algerines, where we were ta-2+TADY FROM CORK.ken and tied with rugs and tedder?, hoife-locks and cowchains ; then cut caftratcd, yards and tefticU-8 quite away ,if you will not believe, put in your hand and feel ho;*every female’s made fmooth by the (hear-boue, wherenothing is to b- f<en but what is natural. 1'hen madeour el'cap; to the defart or wild wildeniefs of Arabia,where we lived amongft the wild affes, upon wind, fand,and fapUfa, ling. Afterwards put to fea in the hull of anold houfe; where we were toffed above and below theclouds, being driven thro’. thickets and proves by, fierce,courfe, calm and contrary winds; at laid was Call awayupon Salifbury plains, where our veffel was dafhed topieces againft a cabbage Hock. And now my humblepetition to you, good Cbriftian people is, for one n»n-dred of your beef, one hundred of your butter, anotherof your cheefe, a cafe of your bifeuit, a tun of yourbeer, a keg ot ycur rum, with a pipe of your wine, alump of your gold, a piece of your filver, a few (ofyour halfpence or farthings, a waught of your butter¬milk, a pair of your old breeches, flockings or fltoes, <Keven a chaw of tobscco for charity’s fake.A CREED FOR ROMISH BELIEVERS.I Believe tfe Pope of Rome to be the right heir aidtrue iucceffor of Peter the Apoflle, and that he li>3a power above the kings of the world, being fpiritoland temporal, endowed with a communication far be¬yond the grave, and can bring up a»y* i. e. or departed flioul * he pleafes, even as thea devil in its woman cf Endor brought up Samuel toAcad. Ssu!, by the. fame power he can, afefttdby the enchantments of old Manafiah, aking in Ifrael. I believe alfo in the Romife priefts, thatthey are very civil, chafte gentlemen, keep no wives jftheir own, but partakes a little of other mens wives infecret confeflion. I acknowledge the worlhipping ofimages and relics of fliaints departed to be very juft ; butif they hear and do not help us, O they are but a paredof ungrateful wretches.JfcFINIS.