HISTO II rOF THESEVENWISE MISTRESSESWHEREINThe Treachery of Evil Ministers is- discov¬ered, Insocency cleared, and theW^dom of the SEVEN WISEMISTRESSES dia layech,OFoStirling, Printed by C. RandallThe HISTORY ofThe Seven Wise Mistresses.c H A p. i.The Emprtfs Tucmia commits her Daugh¬ter Sabrina to to the care of be Se'enWife Mill: re fils, vho having tutored herre'urn i.er to her Mother, wkh her beha¬viour,IN the city of Rome, reigned the EmprefsLuiretia, who had a beautiful daughternamed Sabrina. When fhe was fix years oldthe Emperor her father died and her f othereorumitted her to the care of Seven WheMlflrflfis- famous for vvif lotn. andrefoivinghard queitioES, and for fkiil and Irarnirg ex¬ceeded all v/omen in the wor ld. She havingbeen with thcjm feven years, they appointeda day to try her profic ency In learning, andput the three following qu eft ions to her:I. What is the moft acceptable thing toGcd ?—She anfwered To obey willingly aUhis commandments.IT. What is it gives the greated pleafure tothe foul of nun ?—She fiid. The anfArer ofa good confclenceIII. ' Vhat knowledge made women wifeft ?— She rep'ied, I'he knowledge of good andevil.The M! ft refifes rejoiced at thef: accurateanfwers, and were of opinion- that tor wifdoin(he woulc* excel aU her progneitors.Soon after they r<;c ived a co nmaad fro n'the Empref; to bring her ho ne ; on whichthey retired in o the garde i to confu.t theplanets, whether the event would be fortunateor not; but obferving a great contention a-mor.g the ligns they foreLw that if fh: fpokemore words than one, her enemies would havepower over her, to betray her to the rioft(hameful death. This troubled the MiftrtfTesmuch, which Sabrina perceiving, de iu idedthe caufe; it being to;d her, »hr? viewed thebars herfelf and found it true ; bat promifed:o follow their advice, and hoped r>y theirafhflance to pervert the malice of her enemies;f-o the feven MidretTes agreed each to take aday to plead tor the Priocefs, and at tiie ex-ofration of that time the .abgnity of the ftarsvould be over, and the might fpeak tor ber-elf; telling her, that the fingle word Iho waso fpeak mutt be JU o FiCEi4When-fl;e came betore her mother, Jheclafping; her in her arm?, and killing' her,faid, O my daughter, the only delight Ihave in the world, whom God preferve forfuiuTS bUffings, how is it with you ? I hopeyou are now fairly qualified, by learning to■fit on my throne after me— The Emprefsreceiving no anfwer was lurprifed at her fi-lence, and demanded of her. What Ihe hadlearned of the Miftreffes ? ffie anfweredword more.—-This enraged the Emprefs, whovowed the Miftreffes fhould all be put todeath ; yet being willing once more to rry herdaughter , took her by the hand, and led herinto an arbour, where being feated, five faidto her, my dear daughter, here is a psn> ink.5;and papir, if you will no. fp2.tk» write thereafja ol your filence.— Cue Princefs takingthe peuia h r hand, wrot t thefe lines;Thro’ learning, which doth me a i-ia,I very plainly fee,Th". liars where-under 1 was born ,Prove hazardous to me.And I in bed have lately dr taaa'J,VTnat (liorlly (lull enfUe.I fevea tinifs ftiali be coldema’JIn judgment feat by you.When the Emprefs read thefe lines, (hewas aftonilhed, and being exceedingly trou¬bled to think that (he ihau d give juig/nen:feven times aguinlt her o va daughter, (hewrung her hinds and lamented.*\"wV6C H A P. II.Rsdamaatus endeavours to debauch Sabrina,on being repuifed, he confpires to takeatvay h*r life.THE Emprefs. thinking the affairs of go- |vernnaeot too heavy for a woman, chofefro^ among her ceunfellors one Radatr.antus ja wffe and crafty politician to allift her there¬in, in whom (he repofed great confidence,and readily confentod to every thing he con¬ceived This confidence made hint imperi¬ous infoleht. and ambitious; and as the Eir-prefs was old & igfirav he thought the onlyway to Ecure the t r ee to hi.uieif after herdee*afe was to contrive the death ci herdaughter, by reading her of adulter?; whichby the Roman ia-v was puaidted with deathwithout lucrcy.One day R.-’damantps -from hh windowf tw the princefs ia an. arbour in tie patacigarden, and thbu^ht it a tit opportunity, toput lu's dciign into practice-; i’o going downvto her, ihe was i'urprifed at his fudden ap¬proach, but upon recovering herfe f a iittle,Radamsntus thus began ; Moff lovely lady,7give me loave to Jell you that your beautyI at Itrit-fijht kindled a fire within cuy.breail:,v i ica corn'; g.can allay but ygur(leepingwith.!| me upen a bed of rofes [’lie Princefs tura-iug ^oiUwith a fcornfuJ.look repu fed him.' Phis immediately turned his love into fury,and junning out of the garden-h« cried out,He faw the Princds with a than under the fig.( tree corhhrit'ting 'fornlcaupn, to the breachI of the law, the fiiame of her pireuts, and thedeftruSion of her own fodLThe Empr'efs at this was ftfuck with horrorand amazement, t: famrnoniag her councii,{he again afleed Radamantus where heHe fa:d; under the fig-tre^, & thaV when theman law him he ran away. They then haff-ed into the garden and finding the Princefsalone, anted her what man had been there,with her ? {h.r aufwered not a word.The' Empfe'fs feeing fhe was in the garden,as if adamant uS had reported, believed ah helaid, and in a great rag* commanded her tobe burnt af-a (take.-0C II A P. III.The fir ft MKlrsfs's liuerceffioa.WHEM the day appointed for the execa*lion of the Priacefs wae eome. the people af-fernb’ed with weening eyes to go thereto.Then came Halicuj ih, the fir(l mhlrefs to t!ieEmprefs and faid, Mofl gracious lady, theDivine Being knows your daughter is inno¬cent of the crime {he is charged with by Ra-datr.anthus, and that fhe is not fpeechlefs wi¬thout a good caufe; and if you put her todeath, it will happen to vou as it did to the<pieen of' Syri*, who poifoned her hufbandthrough the perfuafion of a wicked peribn.The emprels defirous to hear the ftory, refpi-ted th* execution of the Princefs, and theMiflrefs began :Once in Syria reigned a Queen, who wasfond of feeing iefts and tournaments, and ha¬ving one day appointed her courtiers to trytheir valour before her, none fo well pleafedher as the valour of Darfius, fon to the kingof Parthiu j and finding him to be an accom*plillisd Prince (hi fjju after married him.They proved a happy pulr» aad were vve!'Ibeloved by their fubjedsThey had not bean married lopg, beforenews was brought that the king his father, lay dyingy and he muft go and uke ponTeffiopof the kingdom. When he was gone, an evi?counfeilor, who was privately in love with the"Queen, intercepted all the King's lettersand informed the Queen that he had marriedanother lady in hia own country ; which fogmved her. that fhe cried out, O my Lord,wherein have I offended thee, that anotherfhould reap the confolation of thy love. TheKing in the mean time wondered he receivedi: no letter from the Queen, likewife lamented,1 fiying, C) my dear lady, what is the reafon.I 1 can never hear how you do> nor how theI affairs of your kingdom ftand !- All this timeI the wicked counfellor intercepted their lettersi on both fides. He invented a ttrong poifont which he told the queen was of fuch virtue,I that if fne put a little into the hollow of airing, and 1’ent it to the King, as a token ofher love, it would make nitn forfake aliother women, and hafteu borne to her TheQueen believing this it was accordingly done,: and the King joyfully received it; but hisfinger fooa fwei'ing, he feiit to his pbyfkians.IO<r}\o tele him the ring was envenomed withthe mefl: ftreng poifon, and that 1m fingernmft be cut eft, or ejfe it v/ou'd stlec't 'hiswhole body. Cu: it oil then, fa d the King, 1which being done, his ar;i: fweiled, and hehad that cut eft atfo j but finning, his wholebody infedled, thus exclaimed ag&inft his<^uetn : O theu ui.gratctul woman.!. why haltthou done thm .o rnpi who ipvea you equalto h.’s own loth ! how couia then return theinert inft&uous potfon tor the molt ardentlove ! Anc laying this, he funk down in hischair and died. The inelienger halttnedhome, and told the Queen all that bad i ap-pened, at wh ch wringing her hands, Ihecried out. What nave 1.done ! by the advicec£ an evil ccunlwiiqi;, 1 have miltaketiy iiainin) dear htfband the King j io taking up ajuuie, ihe tfciuil it into he. bieait? a,d'init«n-ny expired. 'ihen. laid the Emprefs, for this example’sfaXttjny caughter ihali no" die..on*1CHAP. IV.The Second Millrefs’s Inftrceflion.WHEN Radaiftamus heard the Princefsv/as repritved, he pretended great grief, onwhich the execution was again ordered -f bucprevented by the fuliowiug Itory, being told! by the fecond Mift'refs,A lady of Barbary and her huibaiid htingon a long voyages by bad weather had beenfo long at fea, that ail their provlfioTls werefpent and the peep'e obliged to crit lots who-Ihould be killed to feed the reft and i'o untilall vrere killed except the lady and her huhband* who would not eat each other, but few-ing themfelvesup in a carpet, laid down onthe deck, laying, Tr<e gicat God of Heavenallifl us.They foon fell afl;ep, afird in the meanlima a griffin came, who took up the carpet,r.nd carried it to an ift.nd inirabued by lions,bears, &c. vVhea that the gnhi.') hao gottentheta into hn dtn, he fc'egaa forfto pscic dhec«rpet. which weakened rneiii. and the huf-baiLcl fought and killed* the grifiiin, and flewill his younp, but uct knowing how to get ohthe iilssd, they wandered up and down, and Iat )a(i: the man died, leaving the hey in greatdiftrefs. One day in her wandering hie met& lion which much irighted htr j but on hisnear approach hie obftrved he halted, andheld up his foot to her. upon which £he look¬ed at it, and finding in it a thorn, pulled itcut. This done, the lion fawned upon her,led her to his den, fed her with the prey hetcok. and always v* aikeri abroad with her, toprtheive her from the other wi;d l eafts; andft kfl a fhip tcok her to her fathers ir» Bar¬bary. fconte time alter, her- father being ki'-i-dby a wild bear, the fteward repotteci thatthe dor had kilted bis mdltr, open which the Ifeivauts fell upon the lion and killed him.My daughter, faici the Empiefs, fhall netdie, for that txairple‘s fake.The third Miftrefs's laterctfibn.RAD AM AN TUS having a third time ob¬tained an order for the Priccefs s execution,the third Miftrefs prevented it by telling thsJ following (tcry :A Knight once travel ing into foreignparts, loft his v^ay in a v*cod and took up hislodging in a countryn an’s houfe. In themiddle of the night the man’s v,ife was deli¬vered of a fine bey, which the Knight foundby the liars wsl to be hanged $ fo the next•day he named the child and departed home¬wards- in proccfs of time this bey took it inhis head to travel, and by chance came to thehoufs of his godfather, where by degrees hewas advanced to be his llewaro ; but beingi envied by ihe refi: cf his fetvants, they re.folved on his dellrv.ftion. Accordingly, hehaving get leave to return to his own country,they pii*: the Knight's cup in his ponmcr t.au,which being m.ifitri, they told ti e Knight htslleward had ftoie it, & on fearchrg hlspon-manfeau, it belig fouad, the Knight orde-e^him to be hanged. As the/ were kadiagi"him to the gallows he faid, Well, 1 find whaqmy godiatber foretoid is ceraing to pafs, w’10gave me a little piece of parchment* on whichhe wrote theie words, My good child, ferveGod, and pray to him continually to pafs thisfate from thee, or elle thy fortune is to behanged and lb fealing it up in wax, charged .my lather that no one ihculd read it till 1 was!capable ot reading it my felt, which when. Imd, 1 betook, myied travel, in order toprev&:t the prediction j i now find it to be invain,, and mat the prophecy will be fhortlyaccompiilhed. The Kaight hearing this,called lor the paper which being Ihewedhim, he declared it to be his hand-writing,owned him ter his godfon, and referved tneexecution. Then can ling a kcond trial, hisaccufers were cohdemnea and executed, andhe married to the Knight’s only daughter.The Tmprds faid, You have (hewed me agood example, ana my daughter fitaii not die*The Fourth Millrefc’s Intercsflbn.THE fourth Miftrefs finding the executionr again ordered^ prevented k hy tie fouoivingJ itory :In Thrace reigned Queen Hecuba, who1 was wife and peac able , out the King of Ly-: cona brought agamft her a nuoterou* army,and befieged her city ; the mtaiy were feve-Iral times repulfecl by t .e garrifon ; but twowicked roinilters p riuaded the queen to makepeace *ith them, oy giving theiu a targe iutnof money, and as a ratification taereef* topermit a wooden horfe to be bre uniu into tjietempi6 Mmerva^ to afi whten flis con-Jented. In tens horle was pirced a thoul'andmen, who, under the diredtion of tnele two", wicked m iniftt-rs, in the nlght» wfiien the in-babiianrs were rejoicing at the war being o«vtr, they ilinen iuitn on the mhabi.ants, xili-»d the innocent Queen and her oaugnttr,burnt th frty to allies ana tiien taking tnctwo-'raitors, returned to their own land.i6For this exaivip-e. faid the Emprefs, mydaughter fhaii net die*CHAP. VII.The Fifdi Miflrefs's IsterctfEon.NO fWITHSTANDING the former re- !htions, Radamantus obtained another orderfor the P:incefs*s execution*, which whenthe fifth Milirefs heard, the came and told theEmprtfs the following Itory :In China reigned a virtuous Queen, whoaft^r being long married, proved to be withchild, the King being obliged to go intothe country, icctived a Utter from an evilcounfeTor that the Oueen was familiar witha nobleman of the court : on which fhe .wasimprifoned ; where fhe was delivered of aPtiiiqc-fs, who was then.put into a little beat,ar d turned cut to fea *, where fire was takenup by a poor fhepherd, and brought up toktep fhcep upon the mountains One daythe Kmg her father b-iag a hunting, enquiredof the fheputrd if that was his c.aid ? Hethen told nis Majefty the manner of his find,tag it i'wl en the king iuipecting it to bs his1*own daughter, took her home, and felt tdinquire of the Oracle concerning her, vrhejihe received for an anfwer» that the Queenwas innocent, the child lawfully begotten,and his couofellor a traitor. He immediate¬ly releafed the Queen, and the traitor wasdratvn to pieces by wild horfes.tor this example, faid the Emprefs, mydaughter (hall not die.CHAP. ViU.The Sixth Miftrejs’s Intefceflion.AGAIN was the execution ordered, buireprieved by the fixth. Miftrefs s followingitory:In Burgundy lived a widow Princefs whofell in love with a Knight of Mika, then re-fiding at her court, but he took bis leave,and returned to his own country promifingto come again Vrty loon ; but the time beingeiapled, and he not returning, an old coun-lellor told the Princefs the Knight was muchohended with a favorite hound, and a par¬rot {lie kept: upon which ihe ordered them’both to be killed. The Knight came, (laid ai8month, and went home a^aiii Formet'rom’fes. & he not a^fta'JlVty forming thctijthe cour.fellor told her the knight Was, morein love with her daughter than her; on \v hiclthe Prinoefs ordered her daughter to Be putdeath but as the executioner r/ai going tcdo his office, the knight prevented huh, andaccufmg the-counfellor of treachery, he washanged.it!C H A P. IX.The Seventh Mdtr'efs’s Interceffiont'- rad \M ANTUS being full of fury at thehSAff delay of the execution, went and tdiclthe Enspr- fs that if the Priacefs was not exe-ciirccl that cay he would relign. his fnare inthe government; for he looked upon the de-lav, as a doubt cf the truth of his accufaiton.The iimprtfs frignten*?d at this menace,gave orders th« feventh time for iter daugh¬ter to bs put to death. If hen came the fev¬enth Mifrefs and defired th . wou'd hear heritory, which would be but ihort; and aftermuch importunity the execution was refpitedand fee b?g^n as follows t\9T-iiera was ri rich widow who had anoalydaughter, the fois he!refs of all hsrkr,s'e pof-feffi jus. An old prieft courted th’ widow,h and fo overcome her by promifes of marriaofs■that ilie difenherited her daughter, and madeail her eftate over to him. aft.r which he re-j cling her, Ihftabbed herfelf 5 acd the old■I pr'ut turned the daughter out of doors.s 23 ' 'The Eoaprefs thanked the MIftrefs ♦"or thisexample, and pardoned her dau^ater, whonow having undergone the hlence ir.pofedupon her, was a: full liberty to make ufe orher fpeech.C H A P. K.The Princefs defends herfelf, and accufes 1Radamantas.THE Miftreffes hafleced to fetch the Prin-cefs to h.r mother, amids the acdamatioasof al! the people, who when the came before ;the Empreis, fell on her knees, fiying. Hail,Royal Motner 1 the e a life of my frence wastrie malignity of fame ftars, who foretold, if1 ipoke more than one word for feven days |lps.ee, 1 tnould die a fhamstul death, by the jinfluence of a wicked enemy.The Emprefs r-rjo;eed to hear her daugh¬ter fpeak fell on her neck, and tenderly eni' 1braced her.Then the Priacefs accufed Radamantus of ]his attempt to feduce her in the garden ; alfo ‘of his committing fornication vvhh a pretend- Ied gentleman of his bedchamber, who beingfetched} conftfied herfelf to be a woman.Radantantus ftaifain? fxlent and confuTedThou wickod wrerch. laid the Emprefs to; sip* was not thy concubine fufficient to fa-isfy thy depraved appetite, but thou mufl at¬tempt to debauch my daughter,Radatnantus then fell to the ground, andJ .(ked pardon , but the Emprefs sfiured him,ins, fhould foon. meet as lharneful a death asIae defervsdfhen turning to her daughter, ihe faid,'My dear ehiid, l am entirely convinced of thy: unccence.CHAP. XI.The Emprefs refigns her Digrdty to herDaughter Sabrina,The Princefs Sabrina having aflured the.iEmprefs of her duty and obedience, the■execution of Radamantus was fufpeaded ; &(for his greater mortification, the Emprefs re.{Signed her dignity to her daughter, who wastcrawned Emprefs with the greateft folemnityland magnificence ; and all the Nobtes andI Magiftrates took the ufual oaths $ w’hiie accia-i matious of applaufe was given by the people,' i among whom nothing was to be heard butI22the joyfui cry of, Long live the Emprtfs Sa¬brina.Ttactamantus and his Concubine put to death.— the old Emprefs dies—The young Em-prefs marr’es the King of Germany andare driven cut of their kingdom to a remoteEland.WHEN the coronation and rejoicings wersover, Radamantus and his concubine werebrought to their trial, and after being fullyconvicted of many treafons received fenteaceof death, viz, That they be dragged at twohorfe tails thro* the city, to the place of exe.cution, and there, under ihe common gal¬lows. be coni’umed to allies *' This Tntencein feven days after was executed, amidft agreat multitude of fpeftators, who cried out.Behold the traitors j Bihold the traitors !Thefe enemies deltroyed, the young Em- iprefs lived and reigned h??py. /hewing loveand affedlionto her fubjefts and du y and o-bedience to her royal uiotha'i who died afew years after, in the midft of a fiourifhingCHAP, xir, leaving her b’love-I Sabriaa; foleEai-of the Ro n'm K>n after tbe deatn ot her mother. -V-x-, King of Germaiiy coarteJ and anar-er, leaving his own kingdom to comeifide at Roms *, where he had not beenbefore he heard his land was h’vaded by'ling of Macedon, who foan took it. andpreading ail Germany, were upon fullh to b^diege Rome,ibis obliged the Emperor and Emprefs,1 f|their two fons, and the Seven Wifeireffes to retire to a remot* ifland, taking. iihings necffiry with them for their ac-wmojation and piifled the reft of their5 in a qu.et and peaceable retirement;on their tombs was engraved the follow,epitaph-i ^-4The EPITAPH,/ Within this houfe of (tons entombed liesThe King of Germany, furnam'd the wife.With the great Roman Emprcfs his wife.The chiefeft earthly bteffmg of his life :Whom Macedonia*s Ring in wrongful fight,|Deprived of her country’* crown and right ;|But now they do enjoy a heavenly crown.That cannot fade, wnere tyrants never com<FiNfS," li