THELife and PropheciesOFMr. Alexr Peclen,Late Minister of the Oo*pel at New GlenlucEjin Galloway.IN TWO PARTS.TO WHICH IS ADDED,HIS REMARKABLE LETTERTo the Prisoners in Dunnotah-Castlf,July, 1G85.FALKIRK:^HINTED AND SOLD BY T. JOHNSTOK,im.OF SCOTLANDV^d/nbuR*?-^V VTHELife and Propheciesori Mr. Alexander Pcclen.— 0300000,'i.OOOOOOOO —P A R T 1.M K. Alfxa xdf n Pr.ni:n wasbon’rin the rtaritaof Sorrf, in tlie sheriifdom of Ayr After he liaii pasthis course at the College, lie was employed for sometime as school-master.prescenti r ami .-ession-clerk toMr. John (iut lirie, minister of the gospel at Tarb'o!tonrWhen he was about to enter on the ministry, a youngwoman fell with child, in adultery, to a servant in thehouse w here he stayed ; when she found herself so,siie told the father thereof, ivho said, I’li run for it,and go to Ireland, father it upon Mr. Ptden, he liasmore to help you to bring it up than 1 have. Thesame day that he was to get his licence, she came inbefore the Presbytery and said, I hear you are tolicence Mr. Peden to be a minister, but do it not,for I am with child *o him. He being without atthe time, was called in by the moderator; and beingquestioned about it, he said, I am surprised I cannotspeak, hot let none entertain an ill thought of me,for I am utterly free of it, and God will vindicate mein his own time and way. He we»t home, and walkedat a water-side upwards of 24> hours, and would nei¬ther eat nor think, but said, 1 have got what I wasseeking, and I whl be vindicated and that poor un¬happy lass will pay dear for it in her life, and willjnake a dismal end; “and for this surfeit of grief thatshe hath given vr^, there shall never one C lie" ?2'<.come into my bosom. (And, acchrduigiy he nevermarried. There are various reports df tilt way thathe was vindicated; some soy, the time sit; was inciidd-oirth, vir. Guthrie charge! her to givj accountwho was the father >f that child, arid discharge 1 thewonsen to be lielptui to her, until she did h. Somesay that she confessed; others, that she remainedobstinate- Soma of tire people, when I made enquiryabout it in that country-side affirmed, that alter thePresbytery had been at all pains about it and couldget no satisfaction, they appointed Mr. Guthrie togive a full relation of the whole before the contrre-gation, which he did ; and the same day the fatherot that childbeing present, when heheard Mr.Gutftrisbegin to read, he stood up, and desired him to halt,and s ud, l am the father of that child, and I desiredher to father it on Mi. Peden, which has been a greattrouble of conscience to me: and I could not get rest ’till I came home to declare it. However, it is cer¬tain, that after she was m irried, every thing wentcross to them and they went from place to place,and were reduced to great poverty. At last shecame to that same spot of ground where he stayedupwiris of hours, and made away with herself.2. After this he was three years settled ministerat New Glenluce in Galloway; and when he wasobliged, by the violence and tyranny of that time,to leave that parish, he lectured upon Acts xx 17.to the end ; and preached upon the Slst. verse in theforenoon “ Therefore watch, and remember that forthe space of three years, I ceased not to warn everyone night and day, with tears.” Asserting, that hehad declared the whole counsel of God. and hadkept nothing back; and protested, that he was freeof the blood of all souls. And, in the afternoon,lie preached on the 23d verse, And now, brethren,l commend you t» God, and to the word of his grace,A 3 which( 4 )wilich is able to buihl you up. and to give you aninheritance among all them that are sanctifh d.’ —Which was a weeping day in that kirk; the greatestpart could not contain themselves, he many timesrequested them to be silent; but they sorrO.ved mostof all, when he told them that they should never seehis face in that pulpit- agafn. He continued untilnight, ami when he closed the pulpit-door, he knock*ed hard upon it three times with his Bible, sayingthree tiaies over, I arrest in my Master’s name, thatnever one enter there, but such as come in by thedoor, as I did. Accordingly, neither curate norindulged minister ever entered that pulpit, until afterthe revolution that a Prgsbyteriaa minister fitied it.I had the account from old persons in that parish,who were witnesses to it, worthy of all credit.S. After this he joined with that horttst and zeal¬ous nandful that was broken at Pentland-hills in theyear 1666, and came the length of Clytie with them,where he had a melancholy view of their end. andparted with them there, .fames CubisOn. of Poluoh-beaties, my informer, to whom lie told this, he saidto him, Sir, you did well that parted with them,seeing you was persuaded they would fall and fleebefore the enemy. Glory, ghny to God, that hesent me not to hell immediately! said he ; for I shouldhave stayed with them, though 1 should have beencut all in pieces.4. That night the Lord’s people fell and fled be¬fore the tnenu at Pentland-hilhs, he was in a friend'shouse in Carrick sixty miles from Edinburgh; hislandlord seeing him mightily troubled, i nquired howit was with him? He said Vo-morrow I will speakwith you; and desired some candle. That night hewent to bed. I he next morning calling early to hislandlord, said, I have sad news to tell you, our friendsthat were together in arms, appearing for Clirist’sinterest, are now broken, i.li'ed, taken, and fled everymen.. Mo said. Why do you speck so? There isa( 5 )e part pf our friends prisoners in Edinhurijn.Abu it forty-eight hours thereafter, tiiey were fullyconfiruied in the truth of it.\fter this, in June 1673, he vras taken by Ma¬jor Cockburn, in the house.of Hugh Ferguson, olKnockdow, in Garrick who constrained him to tarryall night. Mr. Peden told him, that it would bea dear night’s quarters to them both. Accordinglythey were both carried prison bn; to Edinburgh. HughFerguson was fined in a thousand merles, fs»r resetting,harbouring and conversing with bun. The councilordered fifty pounds sterling to be paid to the Majorout of the fines, and ordained him to divide twenty-five pounds sterling amongtheparty that apprehendedhim. Sometime after examination he was sent prison¬er to the Bass, where, and at Edinburgh, he remain¬ed untd December. 1668. that he was banished.6. While prisoner in the Bass, one SubbathMitorn-ing being a-.out the public worship of God, a younglass about 13 or 14- years of age,-came to the cham¬ber-door mocking with loud laughter: Hesaid, “ Poorthing, thou -nooks and Hughs at the worship of God,but ere long G id shall write such a sudden surpriseing judgera :nt on thee, that shall stay thy laughing,and thou snait not escape it.” Very shortly after,she was walking upon live rock, and there camd a bla»frof wind and sweejp,od Ivor Into the sea, where sheperished.While prisoner there, one day walking upon tl« rock,some soldier* p issingby him one ofthem said, Deviltakeiiim.” H-j Said, “■ Fy fy. poor imn.Tliou kodwist-not wait t'.iou art s ty;ng; bftt thou wilt repent that.”At which word the soldier stood astonished, and wentto the gu ird distracted, on ing aloud for Mr. Peden,saying, the devil would jinmediattiy take him away.He came to min again and found him in his right mind,under deep convictions of great gib.. The guard beingto itSjfangi; they tJesiMThim to go to hh arms; he te-Jbscd, fc stidjhp would iitt no arms agairut Jesus C'hfwtA 3 lo%vhis Causo.cn^j f'rsectiteMs j)copie,heliat1 trtOlohg. The governor threatened him u itli death to¬morrow aboutteii ofthe clock; he confident ty saidthrectimes, though he gliould tear all Ids body to pieces, lieshould never lift arms that v/ay. About tliree daysafter, the governor put him out of the garrison, set¬ting him ashore. He having a wife and children, tooka house in Hast Lothian, where lie became a singularChristian. Mr. Peden told these astonishing passagesto the fnresaid John Cubison, and ethers, who in¬formed me.7. YVlien brought from the Bays to Edinburgh, and^entenceofbanishmentpassed upon h:m in Dec. 1768.and sixty more fellow-prisoners, for ; He same cause togo to America never to be seen in Scotland again, un¬der the pain of death; after this sentence was past,he several times said, that the ship was not yet builtthat they should take him and these prisoners to Vir¬ginia, or any other of the English plantations inAmerica. One James Kay a solid and grave Chris¬tian, being one of them, who lives in or abont theWater of Leith, told me that Mr. Peden said to him.“ Jams, when your wife comes in, let me see her;”tvliicii ht did. \fter some discourse, he called fora dmjc, and when he sought a blessing, he said,* Gootf Lord, let not not James Kay’s wife miss herdear hush: mi, till thou return him to her in peace andsaf. ty. which we are sure will be sooner than eitherbe or she is looking for.” Accordingly, the sameday month that he parted with her at Leith, he camelioinp to her at the Water of Leith.8. When they were on shipboard at the Water ofLeith, tilt re was a report, that tiie enemies were tofend down thumbkins to keep them from rebelling;at the report ofthis. they were discouraged: Mr. Pcdencame above the deck and said, “ Why are ye dis¬couraged you need not tear, there will neither thumb-kins nor bootkins come here: lift up your hearts andLeads, for t:u day of your redemption draweth near;if tve were'Once at London, we will be all set at lib-( 7 )erty." ^.nu wfjcn silling in the'* y nmyinc^a’w-lic'y lie said, “ Lord, iurh is the enjniin* iilitr-U fitthe.1, and maiicc at us. for thy saW, that they vvi!Inot let us stay in thv iand of Scotland, to serve thee.thouch seine of us have nothing bat the Canopy ofthv heavens above Us, and the earth to tread upon;bur, Lord, we bless thy name, that will cut ehort ourvoyage, and frustrate thy enemies of their v. ieheddesign, that they will not get us"where they intend;and sf.me of us shall go richer home than we camefrom home.’’ Jam s pride, who lived in Fife, anhonest man, being one of them, he said many times,he could assert tlx? truth of tins, for he came safelyhome; and beside other things, he bought two cows,and before that, he never had one. I had these ac¬counts bath from the foresawl James Kay and RobertPunton, a known public man, worthy of all credit whowas also under the same sentence, who lived in t; eparish of Dalmony! near Qneerisferry.9. When they arrived at London, the skipper, whoreceived them at Leith, was to carry them no furthef;the skipper, who was to receive them there, and carrythem to Virginia came to see them, they being repre¬sented to him as thieves, robbers, and evil doers; nutwhen he found they were all grave Christian nr.n,banished for Presbyterian princ pies, he said he wouldsoil the sea with none such. In this confusion, that meone skipper would not receive them, and the otherwould keep them no longer, being expensive to main¬tain them, they were all s< t at liberty. Others reportedthat both skippers got compliments from friends atLondon; however, it is ctrtain, thev wore safely setfree, without any imposition of bonds or oaths; andfriends at London, am) in their way liomewai ds throughEngland shewed rntich kindness unto them,10. That dismal day. June 22, 1G79. at Bothwel-Bridge that the Lord’s people fell, and fled before theenemy In w- s forty miles distant, near the border,and kept himself retired until tlje middle of the day,that(§ ><Jiat some friends s >id to >im !! Sir., the people arewaiting tor sermons* ^Tc said, “ Let tin: people go totheir prayers: for me. I neither c m nor will pre; ■ hanjrthis day; for o>tr friends are fallen!, and fled before theenemy at Hamilton. and th vy are longing and hashingthem down, and their blood is rmmii.g like water.’’11. \fter this, he was preaching in Galloway: in theforenoon he prayed earnestly for the prisoners’hak^nat and about Bothwel; but in the afternoon, when hebegan to pray for them, he halted un<lr-aid,“ Our friend'sat Edinburgh, the prisoners, have done something tosave the ir lives tie r shall not do with them, for the sea-billows shall be many of their winding-sheets; and thefew of them that escape, shall not be useful to God idtheir generation!” Which was sadly ’verified there¬after. That which the greatest part of these prison* rsdid was the taking of that bond, commonly called theJilack /Joarf,after Bothwel, wherein they acknowledgedtheir appearance in arms, for the defencrof the gospeland their own Jives, to be rebellion; and engagedthemselves never to make any more opposition: Uponthe doing of which, these perfidious enemies promisedthem life ami liberty, fhis, with the cursed and sub¬til arguments and advices of ministers, who went intothe N ".v yard, where they were prisoners, particu¬lar! v vir. Hugh Kenedy. Mr William Crghtob,Mi E iward Jamieson, and Mr. George Johnston;tnese took their turn in the yard, where the prisonerswere, together with a letter -that was sent from thatErastian meeting, of ministers, met at Edinburgh inAugust 1379. far the aceeptone! ofa third in 1 ulgence,with a cautionary bond. Notwithstanding of the ene-anics’ promise, and tbe unh ippy advice ofiHihisters notjin Hilgcd after they were ensnared in this foul com¬pliance. tliev bapish‘'d 'P5!p. whereof 205 peiislled inthe Orkney -sea. tibia foul step as some o* them told,Itoth in their lif-. and when dying. Jay heavy/uponthem uti their days; and.’ that these unhappy argu-twii advices pf piiuisiers, prevailed jaore with( 9 )them than the enemies' promise of liu- nml liherty.In August, 1679, fifteen of Bnthwel-prisoners yotindictments of death. Mr. Edward Jamieson, a worthyPresbyterian minister, as Mr. Woodrow calls him,was sent from that Erastian meeting of ministers,into the Tolhooth to these fifteen, who nrtced the lav.*-*fulness of taking the Bond to save their lives; and therefusal of it would be a reflection on religion, and thecause they ha 1 appeared for, and a throwing awaytheir lives, for which their friends Would not be ableto vindicate them. lie prevailed with1 thirteen ofthem, which soured in the stomach of some of thosethirteen, and lay heavy upon them both in their life,and death. The prisoners taken at and about the timeof Bothwel. were reckoned about fifteen hundred.The faithful Mr. Jown Blackader did write to theseprisoners dissuading themfrom thatfoul compliance}and some worthy persons of these piisoners, whom hewrote to, said to me with tears, that they slighted Idsadvice, and Swallowed the unhappy advices of theseministers who wefe making peace with the enemiesof God, and followed their foul steps, for which theywould go mourning to their graves. Iheard the samerMr. Blackader preach Ids last public sermon, beforehis falling into the enemies’ hands in the night*; imein the fields, jn the parish of Livingstone, on the sideof the Mair, at NeW-hotlso, on the ‘23d of March,after Botliwel, where he lectured on VIicah iv. fromthe 9th verse, where he asserfed, Tint, the nearer thedelivery, our pains and showers would'coine thickerand sorer upon us; artd that we had been long in thefields, hut ere we were liil'.v: red we would go dowuto Babylon. That either Hop ry would overspreadtins land, or be at the breaking in upon us, hko aninundation of water. And preached upon that text,“ Let no man be moved with these afflictions, for yeyourselves know that ye are appoint 'd theteuntWhere he insisted on what moving and shaki-« Bs-'pen-( IO )fe vsations the Low! had exercised hi.s people with iafo: oier ages,, especially .that man pf Cio<i. that wentto Jeroopam at Beth,el. and delivered his commissionfaithf.dly, and yet was turned out of the way, by auo'd .yin«;,prophet; how moving ^nd stumbling thenmnner of his death was to all Israel I And earnestlyreq i&sted us to take good heed to what ministerswe heard, and wiiat advice we followed. When heprayed, he blessed the Lord that lie was free of bothband and ropevand that he was ns clearly willing tobold up the public blest standard ofthe gospel as ever.And said. The Lord r.ebuke. give repentance and for¬giveness to these ministers that persuaded these pris¬oners to take that bond- for their perishing by sea,was more moving and shocking to him, than if somethousands cf them had beyn slain in fche.field. He wasthereafter taken, the 6th of April, by Major Johnston,in Edinburgh, and detained prisoner in the Bass, anddied there. As the interest of Christ lay near hishear t through his life, amongst his last words he said,Tljfi Lord will defend his own cause.12> After the public murdering of these worthywomen-martyrs, Isobel Allisou, and Marion f Iprvie,in the Grass, market of Edinburgh, January 1681,he was in Galloway; a professor of some dote, whohad more carnal wit amlpoi'icy than faithfulness sinthonesty, after reasoning upon the. grounds of ihtirsnfibtings, affirmed that they would never be reckonedamong,the number of the martyrs. Alter musing alittle, iMr. Pqden said, Let alone, you will treyer behonoured with such a death; and for what you havesaid,against these two worthy lasses, your death willbe both sgddcMi anil surprising. Which happenedvery shortly thereafter; the man standing beforethe fire,, smocking Iris pipe, dropt down dead, andnever spoke more,13. 'n the month qf June 1682 he was In the house«f Jan.tw Brown, ja Paddocxh'jim, above Dougias,' Jdari( I'l >1John Wilson in Lanark Vas with hi,n. who snfforeAmirt^rdom in the Grates market <>i E hnhurgh nextyear. M.iv 168^. He lectured at, night upon Amosviij.an 1 repeated thesewordsjn the9tiv.verse three times,And 110/ rise against the hiirte of -.fenUham withthegivord. He laid his hand on Vhe'Sard John, and said,<• ihVcourh|*e yourself in rhe'Lord, and hot i hioa fast-,John, for^ ou'will .vin rtji ybnder shwtij, and get onyour brows."' That night he went? to th<* holds; andto-morrow, about s:x o'clock. John Went to seek him,an i found liim coming to the house. Hesaid, “John,lot us go fVom this house for the devil is about it,and wjll take ids prey with him ’’ John said, “ Wewill take breakfast ere we go it is-a question whenwe will get the oik r againi ’ lie answered, “ No, no,I will not eat bread in this place, our landlord is anunhappy man. the devil wifi get» ;m shortly, for hewilt hang himself.” Which very shortly came to pass.His daughter, Jean Brown, was tfiefirst that got himin her amis, hanging in the ste.bie. She was reckonedby all, to be n grave Christian lass but from that uaynever had her health, and died of a decay at last, aftershe had been some time in prison for her principles.This passage the same John Wilson reported severaltimes to many, and some alive can bear witness tothe trutlv of it.14. In the year 1680, after the murdering ofMr. Cameron, and tliese worthies with him at Gras-moss. he was near Machline, in the shire of Ayr;<me Robert Brown of Cross-house, who lived nearNew-Milb',and one Hugh Pinaneve. factor to the Earl®f Lothian stabu d heir horses in that house where hewas, and went to a fair in Machline; and, in the after¬noon, when they came to take away their horses theygot a drink, and in the time of pit, the said Hugh,a wicked wretch, both in principle and practice, brokeout in a railing against sufferers, particularly agairtstMr. Camerou: Mr. Peden being in another room over¬hear-( 12 )hearing all, was so grieved that * v came to the clia^i-her door and said to the said Hugh, Sir. hold yourp ace, e’er twelve o'clock thou shall know what fora man Mr. Cameron was, God shall punish that hlas-p lentous mouth, and cursed tongue of yours, in such3 anner.asshall be astonishing to all that shall seeyou,and shall set y ou up a beacon to all railing Rabshakehs.”Robert Brown knowing Mr. Peden, hasted to hishorse,being persuaded that Mr. Pedcn’s words would not fallto the ground and fearing that some mischief mightbefal him for being in the said Hugh’s company, herode hard home. Robert went to, his own house, andHugh to the-Earl’s house, and casting off his boots,he was struck: with such a sickness and pain throughhis body, with his mouth so wide, and his tonguehanging so far out, in a fearful manner, that they sentfor the said Robert. Being used to take blood, he gotsome blood of him, but all in vain: be died before mid¬night. The said Robert, an old man, told me thispassage when in prison together.lo. In the year 16 >2 he was in Kyle, and preachedupon that text. The p/muers plowed upon my back,and drew long their furrow^. Where he said, “Wouldye know who first yoked this plow? It was cursedCain, when he drew his furrows so long and deep,that he let out the heart blood of his brother Abel;and his cursed seed has. and will gang summer andwinter frost and fresh weather, till the world's end;and at the sound of the last trumpet when all are ina flame, their theets will bum, and their swingle-treeswill fall to the ground; the plowmen will lose theirgripes of the plow and the gadmen will throw awaytheir gads: and then, O the yelling and shrieking thatwill be among all this cursed seed, clapping their hands,and crying to the hills and mountains to cover themfrom the face of the Lamb, and of him that sits uponthe throne, for their hatred <oi him, and malice at hiapeople,”Afo*( 13 )After sermon when marrying a pair of folks,when the man hau the woman by the hand, he said,Indeed man you Iia^e a bonny bride by the hand,I see a covetous devil in her; she is both a thief antia whore, let her go, you will be ashamed of her.—The man keeping fast her hand, he said, You willnot take my advice, but it will tend totby disgrace.After the marriage, when praying, he said, “ GoodI.ord, many a plow hath been yoked on the back ofthe Churn'll in Scotland, Pagans yoked theirs. Anti¬christ yoked his-, and Prelacy hers, and now theplngueil Erfisban indulged have yoked theirs, and itill becomes them : Good Lord, cut their theets, thatthe swingle-trees may fall to the ground.” EnsignJohn Kirkland was witness to both this sermon andmarriage; he was my dear acquaintance, who toldme several times of this, and more, of that sermon.16. About the same time he was marrying twopair of folks, he said to the one, Stand by, I will notmarry you this day- The bridegroom was anxiousto know the reason; after enquiring privately', he said,You will thank me for this afterwards, and thinkyourself well quat of her. for she is with child toanother wife’s husband. Which was matter of fact,as time afterwards discovered.17. Shortly after that sad stroke at Bothwel, hewent to Ireland, but did not stay long at that time.In his travels through Galloway’, he came to a house,and looking in the goodman’s face, he said. They callyou an honest man butlf you be so, you look not likeit, you will not lonu keep that name, but will discoveryourself to be what you are. And shortfv after, hehad to flee for sheep-stealing. The short time he■was in Ireland the Governor required of all presby-terian ministers that were in Ireland, that they shouldgive it under their hand, that they bad no accessionto the late rebellion at Bothwel-bridge. in Scotland,#nd that they did not approve of it: which the mostB part(14)p'lrt tltd, and sent Mr. Thomas Goti aas, a Scdfs»sn,-and one Mr. Paton, froin the north of Ireland t.»Dublin, to present it to t!ie Lord - Lieutenant.—Wlien Mr. Petlen heard of it, he said, Mr. Gowansand his brother Mr. Paton are sent anil gone thedevil’s errand, but. God w ill arrest them by the gate.Accordingly, Mr. Gottans was struck with a soresickness by the way, and Mr. Patou fell from hishorse, and broke or crushed his leg. I had thisaccount from some worthy Christians when I wasin Ireland.IS. In the year IGS'i, he married John Drown,that singular Christian, upon Marion Weir, at hisown house atjjPriesth dl, in Kyle. Af er marriagehe said to the bride, Marion, you have got a goadman to be your husband, but you will not enjoy himlong; prize his company, and keep linen by you forhis winding-sheet, for you will need it, when youare not looking for it, and it will be a bloody one.—This came sadly to pass in the beginning of May,1685, as afterwards shall appear.19. After this, in the year 1682, he went to Ire¬land again, and came to the house of William Steel,in Glenwharry, in the county of Antrim. He en¬quired at Mrs. Steel, if she wanted a servant forthreshing victual ? She said she did, and asked whathis wages a-day or a-week wore? He said, The com¬mon rate was a common rule; to which she assented.At night he was put to the barn, to lie with the ser¬vant lad; and spent the night in prayer and groaningup and down the barn. Next day he threshed victualwith the Iru, and spent the night the same way.—In the morning the lad said to his mistress, Thisman sleeps none, but groans and prays all night; I getno sleep far him. He threshes very well, and is notsparing of himself, but I think he lias not been usedwith it, for he can do nothing to the botteling andordering of the barn. When I put the barn in wder,, fce goes to such a place, arj there be prays for thea£Rictetl Church of Scotland, nn<l rarucs manypeople in the furnaee. He wrought t!\e next day,and his mistress watched and overheard him praying,as the lad had said. At niitht she desired her husbandto enquire if he wasa minister, which he did, and de¬sired him to be f: c-e with him. and he should not onlybe no enemy to him, but a friend. Mr. Peden said,he was not ashamed cl’his ofdcip and gave an accountof his circumstances. lie was no more set to work,nor to liewit’n thelad, and he staid a considerable timein that place, and was a blessed instrument in con¬verting some, and civilizing others, though that placewas noted for a wild, rude people; and the fruit of hi?labour appears unto this day. There was a servant-kiss in that house, that he could not look upon butwith frowns; and sometimes, when at family-worship,he snid, pointing to her with a frow ning countenance,You come from the barn and from the byre, reekingin your lusts, and sits dow n among us, r, c want nonesuch. At last he said to William Steel and his w ife,Put that unhappy lass from vr.ur house, for she willbe a stain to your family for she is with child and willmurder it, and will be punished for the same. Whichaccerdinglv esme to pass, and she was burnt at CraigFergus, which is the usual punishment of murderers®f children there. I had this account from one JohnMuirhead, who staid much in that house, and otherChristian people, when I was m Ireland.20. On die second of August. 1684, he was ina Christian Scots women's house, called MargaretLumhemor: that day there was an extraordinaryshower ot big hail, such es he had never seen the like.She said, What can be the mcanrrvgofihis great hail?He said, W itliin a few years there will be an extraor¬dinary storm and shower of judgement poured outupon Ireland, bat, Mif garet, you shall not live toeee it. And accordingly, she died before that rc-bdlien; and the rest bad a sad accomplishment tfi.ifcsrr.y, and the ■ :iter of Hot a.( 16 )21. On the second of' February 1685. he was inthe houje of' one Mr. Vt-rnor; at night lie and JohnKilpatrick, Mrs. Vernor’s father, a very worthy old.Christian, lie said to him, John the world may wellwant you and me. John said. Sir. I have been veryfruitless and useless all my days, and the world maywell w'ant me, but your death w ill be a great loss—Well, John, said he, you and I shall be in heavenshortly ; but though you be much older than I, mysoul will get the forestart of yours, for I will be firstin heaven; hut your body will get, the advantage ofmine, for ye will get rest in your grave until the re¬surrection ; but for me, I mun go to the bloody land(this wTas his ordinary way of speaking, bloody orginful land, when he spake of Scotland) and die there;and the enemies, out of their great wickedness, willlift my corpse unto another place; but I am veryindifferent, John for I know my body absll lie amongthe dust of the martyrs; and though they should takemy old hones and make whistles of them, thry will all'be gathered together in the morning of the ressurrecrtk>n; and then, John, you and 1, and ail dial will befound having ou Christ’s righteousness will get day-about with them, and give our hearty resent to theireternal sentence of damnation. Tin; s;uno night afterthis discourse, while about family-worship, about tenpr eleven o’clock, explaining tire portion of scripturehe read, he suddenly halted arid hearkened, and saidthree times over What’s this I hear? And hearkenedagain a little, and d ipt his bonds and said 1 hear adead shot at the throne of Britain! let him go yonder,he has been a black sight to ihesn lands, especially ,t®poor Scotland: we are well quit of trim; there has beeamany a wasted prayer wared ou him. And it wasCtfneluded by all, the same night that unhappy manCharles II. died. I had tiiis account fiom the fore-said John Muirhead and others., who were present,and was confirmed in,the truth of it by some worthyChristians when l v. &> in Ipciitiwh('*7 )fi'i. <^»e >of iv^marv 1635. he preached ata woocUid.* near the saii Mr. Vi-rnor's iiou«e; he readthe whole of the >:!'x psalm; after reading he cliargedhis !iearars,t'.iat;ioue ui'thcru open their mouths to sing,but those that cou. i da it knowingly and h jlievingly;■fir some t’.-w diner few opened their moutiis: but asJohn Muirhead end John \Vaddel, who were present,(two solid Christians and great sufferers, who lived anddied in the purishesof C imbusnethen and eihots,) saidtome, they and some others, could not cont.iin and for¬bear singling,but *> ike out with their whole hearts awlwhole strength, so t h at they were never witness to suchloud singing, throirgh the whole psalm. After the sing¬ing, in prefacing, Im criml out, “ Pack anti let us go toScotland, let us f. ■ ■ from onede.vouring sword and goto another; the pour honest lads in Scotland, art- run¬ning upon the hills, and liave little of either meat ordrink but cold a.'.d hunger; and the bloody enemy arepursuing & murdering them, wherever they find them,their blood is running like water upon scajlblds andfields; rise, go and take part with them, for we fearthey bar us out of "heaven. Oh! secure Ireland, adreadful dav is.coming upon thee within a few years,that they ,-hail rid, many uiiies and shall not see.areek¬ing houAi in thee; Oh! hunger, liarry, many a paleface shall oe iu.thee; and fire, fire upon a town, whosename 1 have forgot, which was all buret to ashes. Thishad an exact accoixiplishmerit four years t! 44 -.fter.And for the profanity of England, the farmuhly andsecurity ef Ireland, for Mte loathing r.no contempt ofthe gospel, covenant-breaking and innocent blood¬shed in Scotland, none of these lands ska'll escape, ereaii bedouc. liut notwithstanding of all this, Ell-tell you^good news,-keep ia mi'.d tills year, mouth and day,nnd remember that I told you that the enemies havegot a shot beneath their riglit wing, and they may riseami fly like a bird shot, but ere this day seven y'.ars.the,'gtrongcst.of them all sfod! fall," Then upon the sixth.{ ,8 )‘;e tt'SE m that wood all day, and at ni|dit ht came tothesaidMr VetnOr’s house, where sevei'al of our SootseufFerers were; hesdid, “ Wltvare ye so discouraged?I know ye have got ili news of the dre;i;llui murder ofour friends in Scotland; but I will tell you good news*that unhappy, treacherous, leacsherous man, who hasmadetheLcjrd’speoplein Scotland, tremble these yearsbygone, has got nis last gleg in a lordly dish from hiebrother, and he is lying with his tongue cold in hismouth.” The news of this came not to Ireland forU4 hours thereafter. The fore said John Muirhead andJohn YVaddel and others of our Scots sufferers, whobad heard him preach the Sabbath day before con¬cluded this was the shot beneath the right wing that liespoke of, Charles II. dying the Friday’s night before.23. After this he loneed to be out of Ireland, whalthrough the fearful apprehensions of that dismal day ofrebellion in Ireland that came upon it four years there*after, and that he nnght take part with the sufferers ofScotland. Became near the coast one morning; JohnMuirhead came to him lying within a hedge: he said,“ Have ye any news Johnr” John said, “ There isgreat fearof the Irish arising.” He said, Mo,ns, John:the time of their arising was not yet; but they will riseand dreadful will it be at last. He was long detainedwaiting for a b irk, not daring to go to public ports, buttt» some remote creek of the sea— A1 xfinder Gordonof K’^ r in Galloway had agreed with one. but Mr.Peden ^ouid not sail the sea with, him, having somefbi t ,'ight of what .e did prove afterwards. In the In¬ge ni g of August, before, this. Kinstour, was relievedat Elerker-path, going from Duiofn- s to Edinburgh,prisoner, when the news of it came io Ireland, ourJScots sufferers their acquaintance were g*^it of tironews especially that Kinsturr hud escaped. He said,ti Wliat iin ms all tnis Kinstuiringr fliere is some ofthem ic cved there that one of them is worth manyOthkn; tor aii wui be atlumcd of bim ere all be done."13 ting{ l9 )Being in ttiis sir >!t, he said to i’ohc't Wrttfe, aft oldwwrthy Christian, worthy of credit, “ Robert, go andtake such a nsan with you, and the fiist hark ye canfind, compel him, for they will be like the tings in Eg> frf,not one of them will move their tongue against you.”Accordingly, Robert and his comrade found it out so,and brought her to that secret place '. here he was.When Robert ana his comrade came and told him, bewas glad and very kind and free; but he seemed un¬der a cloud at that time. Me said,- “ Lads, I have lo.-1my prospect, wherewith 1 was wont to look over tothe bloody land, and tell you and others, what enemiesand friends were tioing: the devil and I pude. . andrides time about upon one another; but if 1 were up¬permost again, I shall ride hard, and spurgaw wentI have been praying for a swift passage over to the sin¬ful land, come of us wlr-t will: And now Alexancel’Gordon is awav with my prayer-wind; but it a.regood for the remnant in Scotland he never saw it;lor he will assuredly wound that interest tre lie gooif the stage. This satiiy came ta p-.'S in his life,and was a rep-each to it at his death.A little before they came off, he baptised a childto John Mivrtwell a Glasgow-man, who was fled overfrom the persecution: ih his discourse before thebaptism, hfc burst out into a rapture, foretelling thatblack day that was to come upon Ireland, and saddays to Scotland, and after all this, w.is good daysto come-. Mrs. :M ixweil, os Mary Elph.ngston, thenrotlter of the child, yet alive in Glasgow, ic'd me,that in the time he was asserting these things; shewas thinking: and wondering what ground of assur-ance he had for them, he cried aloud, shaking lughand a-t her, and said, 'Vornan, thou art thinkingand wondering within thy -elf whether I be speakingthose things out of the vw, ons ol my own head or ifI be taught by the Spirit of God ; 1 tell tnee, woman,tlitm sbuH iivt anu see that l am not'mistaken.SUo' S3 )&!*« iaVt me, that she wa? very ! •':*y d !3vid out of her groat ciesire to havr her child bap¬tized before iie «une off, that she tank travail too■soon ; aud bdog <'-eak, aad <>t* surprised a >tii tell mg'Irer the thouy'htn iJ' Uor hsiirt, tlutrlit vtm ip dangerof G<ilih« off the chivir. A~. tiiis exercise also he told■them, that he could not war off till lie got this done;and thistvas all t-he drink-money lie lied left in Ireland,and to the family fnciirting t> the landlord} for aiithe kindness he had met with from them. After thebaptism they got breahf ist, there vks plenty of breadupon the table, and seeking a blessing, he put Jim'band beneath the bread, holding it up wiiji mucbufi'c cticn and tears, said, !;oid, tliere is a weli eoveredtable, and plenty of bread; but what com-s of thepoor young kindly luvnest lad Renviek that shamesus all, in staying and bidding up his fainting mother'sLead, when, of all the chiidien sfte has brought foith,tJiere is none will avmvtdly take her by the hand;and the poor, cold, hungry lads upon the hills ? forthe honour af thine own cause, let them not starve.Thou caused a ravenous bird, greedy of fiesh itselfto feed Eiijaii; end thou fed thy people in the wil¬derness with-angels’food; and blessed a few ioavesand smajl fishes, and made them suftideat for many;and had experience of want, weariness, cold andhunger, and enemies tidily hunting for thy life, whilein the world: look to them, and provide for them.—We w ill get the black stoneforJeavir ^him and them.The waiters being sulvertised of the hark b-drig iathat place, they and other people came .upon them,which obliged them that were to come off, to securethe waiters and people altogether, for fear .of the•garrison of Carrickfergus apprehending them, being♦rear to it, which obliged them to co ne ofFimmediate-3y, however it might be rvithanem. After that, he andt-iventy-six of our Scots sufferers came aboard,_iuid heistood upon the -deck and prayed, there jreing not<lhc Jetts* wind; where he matLc a te-htarmil of tuna®( )and places, v/hen and where the Lord had heard andanswered them in the day of tfaeir distress, and nowthey were in a great strait. Waving his hand-te tisewest, from whence he desired the wind, and said.Lord, give us a loof-full of wind ; fill the sails; Lord,and give us a fresh gale, and let us have a swift pas¬sage over to the bloody land, eoene of ws what will. 1John Muirhead, Robert Wark, and others, who were*present, told me, that when lie began to pray, the.sails were- all hanging straight down, bat, before lieended, they were all like blown bladders; then theyput out the waiters and other people, a»;d got a veryswift and safe passage. The twenty-six Scots suffer--•rs that were with him, having provided themselvea.with arms, and being designed to return to Scotland,there being then sach a noise of killing; and, indeed^the din was no greater than the deed it Ireing tlten intiie heat of killing time, in the end of Ftbrnavy, 1083*When at exercise in the Dark, be said, Lord thoifcimowest that there lads are hit-spirited, lay ;«i arrestttptm them, that they may not appear; their time isnot yet; tho’ Monmouth and A^gyle-be coming, theywilf work no deliverance At that time dhene wa»no report of their coming, for they came -not for ten-weeks thereafte r. Jiv the morning, after they landed,he lectured before they parted; sitting upw*) a brue-side; where he bad fearful thre*trti.tvgs against Scot¬land, saying, the time was coming, that they mighfl♦ravel many miles -t Galloway and-Kultsdale, Ayrand Clydesdale und not see a seeking house, nor heara cock craw. And further said, that his soul tremblettto think what would become of the indulged, buck-*slidden and upsitten ministers of Scotland; for noneof them should ever be honoured to put a right pinin the Lord s tabernacle nor assert Christ’s kinglyprerogative, as king and bead of his church. To thasumo purpose said the won by wed never‘To-b_- for¬go tt -n Mr Donald Cargill, wi«hiii eight hours of hifmartyrdom, that lie feared, tho’ there were not ano¬ther*{ )fcher ministry in all the earth, he would make no moreuse of them in a national reformation, hut send dread¬ful judgments upon themselves, and a long curse upontheir-posterity. Anti .Mr.llutherford said in his day,1635. That sad and heavy were the .judgments andindignation from the Lord, that was abiding the un¬faithful watchmen of deuvland ; meaning the unhappyResohitioners. When ended, he prayed earnestly tormany things; particularly, that all the sins they hadcommitted in Ireland, might be buried,in that place*and might not spread with them thro'the sinful land.2+. When the greater, part took their farewel ofkina, he said to the rest,. To khat lamse or place shallwe go? One Hugh Kennedy said, We will go to sucka house. He said, Hewie, we will not get in our nosethere, for the ttevil and his bairnsmre there. Not¬withstanding Hugh went, and found the house full•f the enemies; .and that bight a woman in the housemade away with hersel f. Hugh came quickly backend told him. He said. We will go to such a house,I have an errand there. .When tiiiy went, the good-wife was dying, under great doubts and fears; wherehe was a blessed instrument of comfort to her; r.nisaid to Hugh, Hewie, this is the errand Lhad here.2;>. They went oast ward somewhat contrary to hisinclination, till they caine to the top ofan hill, up wards•f two milea distantfreui the place they designed Hahalted and said. I will not go onefootfarth.tr this way,there is undoubtedly danger before us. An herd ladbeing there, he gave him a groat, and desired him it*goto that house,and fetch him meat and news. Wheatthe lad came to the house, the goodwife hasted andgave him mem to them saying. Lad, run hard andtell them that the enemies are spread, and we are ex¬pecting them here every minute. As the lad was go¬ing from the house, eighteen of the enemies' foot werenear, crying Stand dog. The lad ran, and six of themjnirSBcd half a mils, awdiined hard upon him; the bad. VVOt ,( *3 )went dofc by his l.ead. 'Ul that time Mr. PsJ«n o3it»tinued in prayer for loin alone, and wilt' t: t rca, beingtwelve men: when praying witii then he laid. *• Lordfiiall the poor iad that r: gone our irr^nd fcckingbread to funport our lives, loic i it? Diecl the bulletsbv hit bead, however near let t. ecu not touch hini;good Lord, fpread the lap of thy cloak and c^ver thepoor lad.” ^nd in itiit he wa» heard and ai fwered,in that there a da. k deed of mi A parted him andthe m.26. About this time there wat au hove A poor wifebroth, hi him and them feme bread and milk: vroett feek-fn;1, a bkCing he fa'd. k‘ Nt w in this bloody land, thtspoor woman has eadan'f ered her life in b irgiitg breadto fuppoit clt , we cannot pa; her for it but Lord,it is for thy faka flte h»t biougnt it; there is no needthat fi-.efltould be a iofer at thy hand: -thou give,ft plentyni bread to many that are u..t f» worthy of it; givingdoes not itnpureri'b thee, and with-robi’mg does notenrich thee, give this poor S’iir tTremy ban reck 5 forthefe f w.” And the tfc faid ftvcrel times after¬wards, Ibe got many ban- ock?; id that fhe was ucv«r& Araitened for bicad as before.27. At this lime upon a Sabbath-night, ha preach¬ed in a fliield or flicip-huufe. in a defut place ; a manAanding at the dcor as iie cams in. he gripped him andiaid. v^liere are you going Sir, go home, y u haveneither ait nor part with or, there will be a blatk ac¬count heard of you ere long.” Accordingly, very fliort-ly thereafter he went to Kdiuburgh, and took the blackleft. That night he Injured upon the vii. of Atnoi,“ ^r'd 1 will fvt a plumb-line in the midft of my peoplaifiael.*' kle cried out. *4 Oil i hew few of tire mini-flers of Scot and will anower tire plumb-line; Lordfend us a el wood, a Cargill, ard a Cameion. aodfucli as thay, and make us quit of the reft.’* And I( 24 5v»itl ffic ap't'fifi tbe honfe o) JernLoam with ’ho fwort?.Me fa-d. •• 1 will t-cU you pocd news, our L ord t Htake a teatlicr out of ‘VniicHnll s wing, which Lhailbrhig down l e Ouke of York and bainih hire out oft' cfe ki.rgdv'ms, and will lentnve ti e bloody wordfrom dhol'c the heads of i i; ptfnpk t .And th.ere willnever a man of the notnr- of Stawart !»• upon t::e thronaof Biitain after the Duke of York, wnofe reign is nowSvirt for tiierr lec.herv. treachery, tyranny, and Lhed-ding tiie precious bio. d of lire Lord’s people: But ohlblack, black, biack will the dav be that will com*Upon Ireland that they Ataii tr«*ail forty milcr, andnot fee a reeking houfe. nor i.sar a. cock crow I”this heftE’-ted up to his fee:, and clart hi* hand*.Rod with a ravirtirng voice cried aloud. ‘'■Glory gloryto the Lord, tout has n.ccpted a bloody faenfice of afealed teft mony <■{!'Sco*land s I at>d; we have a bio 'dyclout ta hold up, and ti e lads that got the bullets thro’their heads the laft dav at Glrntrok their bio.id has madeIne clout redder When our i.ord looks ttponthebloodyclout, he will keep the fword of iris avetiiting jufticc inthe ftt at1! for o time bet Y Scotland lhall not condderthe inn crhrl day of their viftra-.ion, nor hi* long-fufFer-ing patience and forbearance lead them to repeiita; ce,6s w* fear it will not, but harcco therm in tluir fin, andtire greater ptrt Utr,; gofpel-proof and judgnrent-preof,»T:d Wax worfe and worfe, then will the Lord acc:)>i-pli!h all that he has torearonsd % well-defervea. foie-feca and foretold day of venguance; when he beginshe wfll alfo make an end. efpccially againft tire houfeoi Eli, for the iniquity which they cannot but know.”Wi en ended, he and thofe that were with him. laydown in the flicep-houfe. end pot fomeftetp: He mfc«arN and went up to the buir.-fide!. ana fteyed long:rviisn he came iuto them, ha aid fing the xtaai. Pfalra,from{ 2 -5 )•ffom tlic Ttli verso to the end; when ending, harepeated the 7th verse,Thou art my hiding place, thou shaltfrom trouble keep me free;Thou, with songs of deliverance,about shait eeaypa'sl me.Saying. These and the i'oliowing are sweet lines^whic*i I got at the &arn-side tl*.s morning ; and we’ltget more to-morrow, and so we’ll get daily provision.He was never behind with any that put their trust inhim; and he will not he in our common nor none whpneediiv depend on him, and so we will go on in hisstrength, making ntsfition of his righteousness, andof his only. The fort said James C unison went eightmiles with him; when he took'good night, he said,Sir, I think Til never see yoti again. He said, James,you and 1 will never meet again in time. And twoseveral ti nes he went to Ireland before, when theyparted, he told f.vni’that they utruld meet again The said James, John iMuirhead, and others of oursufferers, who were present, gave me these accounts.23. Shortly afler they landed from Ireland in Gal¬loway, the enemy got notice, they being then in gar¬risons, foot and horse, and it being killing-time, thealarm came to thenvin a morning, that foot and horsewere coming upon them; the foresaid John Mulrheadbeing struck with a violent pain in his forehead, theystarted up to run for it; He Said. Stay, stay lads! let uspray for old John ere we go. He stood up and said,Lord, we hear tell tliet thy enemies and ours are com¬ing upon us, ami thou hast bid thy hand of afflictionon old John, have pity upon him, for thy enemies willhave none; hisblood will run where he lies1 spare Jiimat this time, we know not if he be *y tdy to die. And,ns John told me, with tears in his eyes, t’-ropain in his.head, an,d the indisposition of his body quite left him,and he started up and ran with the rest. The enemiesseeing them pursued them haul,scshetiirur thehorse,and sosnctime^ljc foot being rear them, mossy, bog-G pish.( )gigli ground did cnst nbout tbchorses. Afrcr they hs<irun some considerable way. and got a little height be¬tween the enemy and them, he stood and said, Let uapray here; for, if the Lord hear not our prayers, andsave us. we will be dead men, and our blood run likewater: If we die, let ‘.he enemy kill us; let our bloodfill up their cup. that theday of vengeance that is com¬ing on them may be hastened. Then he began, andsaid, Lord, it is thy enemies’ day, hour and power;they may not be idle, but hast thou no other work forthem, but to send them after us? Send them afterthem to whom thou wilt give strength to tiee, for ourStrength is gone; twine them about the hill, Lord, andcast the lap of thy cloak c 'er auld Sandv, and thir poorthings, and save us this one f no. and we wii» keep itin remembrance, and tell it to the commendation ofthy goodness, pity and compassion, what thou didstfor its at such a time. In the mean time, there was adark cloud of mist ouine betw ixt them. After prayer,he ordered two of them to give notice of the enemy’smotion, and the rest to go alone and cry mightily tothe Lord for deliverance. While they were thus ex¬ercised, there came posts the enemy, desiring themto pursue after Mr. ilenwick, and a great companywith him. After the enemiswere gone he.called themt ogether, and said. Let us not forget.to return thanksto the Lord, for hearing and answering us in the dayof our distress. And charged tire whole creat’on topraisp the Lord; and also adjured the clouds to praisehim. Then Ire sat dow n at the side of a well, and en- ,a aired if they had any crumbs efLnpad? Some of themhaving soma crumbs, when seeking a blessing, he said.Lord, thou who blessed the few loaves and fishes, andniada them sufiiciqr.t for many bless this w ater, andthese crumbs tc us; for we thought we s’noald neverfcpye needed any more of these C: f ature-comforts.iiii, A'f;w days al ter this, the aforesaid John Muir*head was iry a house alone, at a distance from the rest,and( 27 )and in the morning was a dark fn’st, and Tie kriew notwh'tiier to go, or whert- to find taeni: drily lie heardhim speak of the name of a place where lie Wa- ■ »baptize some children: ha gave a sixpence to a ladto conduct him to that place, which was six milesdistant. When he came, lie was praying, -\fterb.-ptis.n, lie came to John, and said, Poor strayingsheep, how came you to stray from the rest? I In'ia troubled morning for you. Da not thus itgain,otherwise it will fare the worse with you.?>0. \bout this time, he and John Clark, who wasordinarily called Little John, were in a cave in Gal¬loway, and had wanted meat and drink long. He said,John, better be thurst through with the sword, thanpine away with hunger; the earth & the fulness there¬of, belongs to my M wter, & I have a right to as muchof it as will keep me from fainting under his service;go to such a house, and tell them plainly that I have-wanted meat so long and they will willingly give it.Said John Sir, I am not willing to leave you in thisplace yourself, for some have been frighted by thedevil in this cava No.no, John, said !ie,ycunL.ed notfear taat I will take my venture of him for a time.—John went, and the people willingly gave him sonemeat When he eame hack, he said, John, it is very-hard living in this world, incarnate devils above tneearth, and devils beneath the earth! the devil has beenhere since youwent away; i h we sent him off in haste,we will he no more troubled with aim this night.31. \ little after this, he being yet in Galloway,John Mairhead and some others being with him, John,i said to him, This is a very mel mcholy. weary time.It being killing time. He replied There are moretlaik, weary day's to come, when your pulpits will befull of Presbyterian mmi«,ters,and it will turn that darkupon you hat many shall not know what to do, whe¬ther to licar isr forbear; and they shall be reckonedC a ' h.in?r'( ^ )happy that wan well through at Pentlan.'l, Tiothwel.and Aiitlsnioss, and wan fairly oil the stage, and gotmartyrdom ler Chr:s,t; tor the ministers will cut offmany of the serious £nd zealous godly at the web'send; but I will be hid in a grave. They encjuii oilwhat would become of the testimony of the Church ofScotland ? Then he plucked the bonnet o if'-bis bead,and threw it from him, saying. Sec ye how my bonnetIres? The sworn-to, & scaled testimony of the Churchof Scotland, will fall from the hands of ell parties,«► and lie as close upon the ground as ye see my bonnetlie How Itecntabiy is this accomplished, to theobservation of all who see with half an eye!32. At this lime it was seldom that Mr. Pedencould be prevailed with to preach, frequently advis¬ing people to pray meikle, saying. It was prayirg-foik that would win through tire storm: they wouldget preaching both meikla and good, but not meiklegood of it, 'until judgments be poured cut, to makethe land c* so!ale. And, at other times. We needednot to look lor a great or good day of the gespe),until the sword of the Frenches were artiongst us,to make a dreadful slaughter; and after that brawgood days. . He and Mr. Don.Jd Cargil saw as it-had been with one eye, and spake with one breath.And. frequently when they pressed him to preach,,hfe had the same expressions in his answers.S3. There were three lads murdered at Wigtown,and at the same time 1 e was praying at Craigmvne,many miles distant: He cried out, There is a bloody* sacrifice put up this day at Wigtown. These a ere•the lads of kakelly ; and those who lived near, knewnot of it, tdl it, was past. I had this account fromWilliam M Dougal, an old man in Ferrytown, nearWigtown., worthy of credit, who was present./ 34 . After this, in Auchengroocii-muirs, Nithsdale,■Captain John Matthison and ethers being with him,wcrealarnxd that the einm’.ie-- >. ere coning fast,upon( 29 )upon They designed fo put !iim in some hole,and cover him with heather he not being able to riilahard by reason oi' !ns age; he desired them to forbeara little until he prayed, where he said, ‘‘ Lord, we areever needing trt thy hand; and if vVe had not thy com¬mand to call on t*"_e in the day of trouble, and thy pro¬mise of answering us in.the day of our distress, vre wotmot what would become of as : If thou hast any morework, for us in the world, allo w us the l ap of thy cloakthis day again; And if this be the day of our going offthe-stage,it t us win honestly off & comfortably through,-and our souls will sing forth thy praises thro’ eternity*for what thou hast done to us and for us.” When end¬ed, he ran alone a little and came quickly back, sat ing,‘ Lads, the bitterness of this blast is over; we will beno more troubled with them to-day.” Foot and horsecame the length of Andrew Clark’s in Achengroocb*where they were covered with a dark mist: When theysaw it, they roared like fleshly devils, and cried outthere is the confounded mist again! we cannot getthese damned whigs pursued for it.” 1 had this ac¬count from the said Captain John Mutthisoru35. About, this time he was in a house irt the shireof Ayr (J roes Misbet. yet living in the castle of E lin-burgli. can bear witness to the truth of this) and onemight he was standing before the fire, where he uttcredlsoma imprecations upon the enrsed intelligencers, whohad told tbe enemy that he was come out of Ireland.When Jam :s took him toth'e place where lie was to resta bride J t nes s-iid, ■“ The servants took notice of your•imprecations upon the intelligencers.” He said, *• Yewbi know to-taiorrow, about nine o’clock, what groundI tiaye for it; f wish thy head may be preserved, for it■will be in danger-fer me 1 will take my own time, andbe gone from his bouse.” Some time that,high*' hewent-to a desart.plac-. & J irn d himself irtamo • tg.The next morning, dimes was going at the harrows,iOP.d about .eight of the clock t ere was a troop of theC 3 xue*-Chernies surrounJin thehou^c; v,hcn Jarriss sawrticwhe ran for it, and they pursued hi n hard, till he wanto a moss, where they could pursue him no father with-horses; They then fired upon him. and he havinyknotsupon his hair, on each side of iris head, one oft heirbullets took away one of the knots. lie run whereIvl r. T’eaen was, who said. “ Oh! Jamie, Jamie, l am gladyour head is safe, for I knew it would be ir. danger.”:He tool: his knife, and cut away the other knot.36. About this lime, he and James Wilson in Dou¬glas, a singularly known man to many, was at Airds-moss; and being together some time, without speaking,as Mr. Peden's ordinary was, when there was any extra-or Unary thing in his head, they came to Mr. Caux ron’sgrave, where he and other eight were buried. Afler.sitting some tina? on the grave, he gave James a clap onthe shoulder with his heavy h?nd. and said, I am go¬ing to tell you a strange tale!” James said, ‘ laciwil*line, to hear it.” lle said “ Thks is a strange day, bothof sinning and suifjring1 (as indeed it was it hying kil- Vling time, wherein many fainted,a^d could not endcrethe scorching heat of the persecution! but to some theLord in his love gave gourds of strength support and•comfort, that keeped them from fainting: But said lie,the' it be a dreadful day, it will not last long; this per¬secution will be stopt within these few \ eats, but I willnot see it; for ye are alWonging and praying for that '•day, but when it comes, ye will not crack so much of itas ye trow. Vnd ye are a vain man. James, and manyothers, with your nits of paper and drops of blood!*fout when that day comes, there will be a bike of in¬dulged lukewarm ministers from Ho.land England, &Ireland, together with a bike of them at home, and someroung things that knownothing, and they will-all hyvetogether hi a General kssenibiy, A the red hands withidood.and the black bands of defect! on, will be taken bythe-hand, and the hand given them by our ministers; &\'t will-aoi ken w ao has been the persecutor, compiler* - cr•ersuffew; ar.d yrtur bits rtf pjp'T and drops ofb’v-J'lwill be shut to the'i>>or, never y. woe;'; in««.v‘ of them ;«nd ye ami the like of’you, will-get their biok ;de.’ —He gave him another sore clap upon the siio d.ler, sav¬ing, •• Keep wind of thisJuraf-! Si ilsoa llbr. as .* heLordlives, it will surely crane to pass.” James iVj'son toldwie this shortly thereaf ter. & re vpated it again w.- CratGeneral Assembly, when he and 1, and m my ot'icrs,saw the accomplis!:mei>t cf this.-in every paititular,to oui- grief.37. In the bocinnittg of Mav, 1C85, he caci» to thehouse of John Brown and Marion vV sir, whom he mar¬ried before he went to Ireland-, where he stayed allnight; and in the morning, when he took iarevvtM. hecame cut at the door, say ing to l;iaiM.af, ‘ I’oot woman,a fearful morning!” twice over: A dark misty morn¬ing.” 1’he next morning, between five ar.J six, the saidJohn Brown, having gone about t he w orship of God inhis family, was going with a spade in his h'.-.id, to makeready some peat ground; the mist being very dark, heknew not until cruel & bloody Claverlumse compassedhim with three troops of horse, and brought him to Lishouse, and there examined him :. w !>o. though he was aman of a stammering speech, yet answered him dis¬tinctly & solidly; which made Claverhouse toask thosewhom be had taken to be his guides through themuirs,if ever they heard him preach riiey answered, No,no, he w-as never a preacher.” He said, If he haanever preached tneikle, he has prayed in his time.’'He said to John, w Go to your prayers, for you si in 11•immediately'die.” When lie was praying, Claverhouseinterrupted him three times: One time that he stopthim, he was pleading th it tue Lord would spare a rem¬nant and not make a full end in the day of his anger,Claverhouse said, ‘ I give yon time to pray, and ye,are"begun to preach;” He turned about upon JiLs knee.s,And said, “ Sir. you know neither the nature of pr ving-aor preaching, that calls this prettelimg; iheu conti-( s* )tVj^I •wTRltftlt canfushfc " When endvd. Ct?r?r?inuS6said, “ Take g»od-iiig!it. ofyour ^ife and children."His wife standing by, with her child fit litr arms, thtttfilve had brought foctli to Him. and another child of hisfirst wife's, lie came to her and said, Now, Marion,the dav is come that l toi l yon would come when Ispake ftr«t to you of marrying me.” She said, ‘ IndeedJohn I can willingly part, with you.” Then he said.“ That is all I desire, I have no more to do but die.”lie kissed his wife and bairns, and wished purchasedand promised blessingsto be multiplied upon them* andhi# blessing. Ciaverhouse ordered sixsoldieis to shoot,and the most part t>f the bullets came upon ins head,-which scattered his brains upon the ground. Ci&ver-4iouse said to his wife, VVirat thinkest thou of thyhusband now. woman?” Site said, •• i thought evermuch of him. and now a# much as <ver.” lie said;*> It were justice to lay tree beside him.” She said,“ If ye were pa nnitted, I doubt not but youj- crueltywould go that length. !>ut iiow will ye answer fortills murn.'ng’s work?” Fie said, ‘‘ To man I can betinswerable, and for Gcd 1 will take irim in my ownhand1” Chiverhoilse mounted his horse and marchedand left her with die dead corpse of her husband lyingthere. She set thed>airn on the ground, and gathered,his brains,.& tied up his head & strarghted his body,and covered him with her plaid and sat down and wept■over him. It being a very des uf place, where nevervictual grew. <i far from neighbours it was some timebefore any friends c.une to her : Hie first that came,w s a very fit hand, that old singular wo nan in theCummer head, named E izabeth Mer.zie*. three miles.dwtant, who had been tried with the violent death ofher husbandatPei.timil,afterwards oftwo worthy sens.,'Thomas A’eir who was killed at Drumclog. and D. vidAiteel who was suddenly sliot afterwards-when taken.The said Marion dleir, ■sitting on her husband’s grave,ttuhi sue, that b.eiorethat she could aetMioislsodbut sheiv<as( 33 )■o ls in clanger ta faint, and yet slie was haiped to haa ciUress to all tli’,, without cither jiiioting or con*fusion* except when the shots; were let off, hereyesdazzled, llis cerpse were buried at the end of hisho.ise, where he was slain, with this inscription onhis grave-stone,In earth's cold lied, the dusty part here lice.,Of one who did the ear. ’ as dust despite :Here, in this place, froc.' earth hr. look departure;Now he has got the garland of a hlartijr.This murder was committed betwixt six and sevenin the morning: Mr.Peden was about ten milesdistanf,having been in the fields all night, became to thehocseabout eight, and desired to call in the family, that hemight pray amongst them. When praying, he said.Lord, when wilt thou avenge Brow n’s blcpd r Oh !lei Brow n’s blood be precious in thy sight; and hastenthe day when thou wilt avenge it, with Cameron’s,Cargil’s, and many others of our Martyrs’ iv.rnu;.And oh ! for that day, when the Lord will avenge alltheir blood 1 When ended, John Muirhead enquired■what he meant by BfocVn'sblood? lie said twice over,"What do l mean ! Ciaverhouse has been at the Pres*,hid this morning,& has cruelly murdered John Brown,his corpse is lying at the end of his house,and his poorwife sitting weeping by his corpse, and not a soulspeak oouifextabfy to her. This morning after thesun-rising, 1 saw a strange apparition in the firma¬ment; the appearance of a very bright Jear shiningstar, fall from heaven to the earth! muffrumed thereis a clear-shining light fallen this dav the greatestChristian that ever £ conversed with.SS. After this, two days before Acgyle was brokenand taken he was near Wigtown in Galloway; a con¬siderable number of men were gathered together in.arms to go for his assistance ; tney pressed t i n topreach, but he refused, saving., he w ould only praywitl^tliem; where he continued 'ong. and stent some.l«art cf that time in graying for I: ..and, jiuxu.inu that.( 34 )the Lord would spire c rciftnant. an-l rot ni,ike a fullend in tire day of his anger; and ■voold put it in diehear ts of his mvn to flee over to l.hisaiOody land. v. herethey would And safety for a time. After prayer theygot some meat, and hegave every one of his old pltf'sh-oners, who were there a piece eut of his own hand,calling them his bairns. Then he advised all to gono further: But, sard lie, * ,r you that are my bairns,I discharge you to go your foot-length,for before voucan travel that length, he will be broke: and thoughit were not so God will honour neither him nfOt Mon-month to be instruments of a good turn to his church-,they have dipt their hands so far in the persecution.And that same day that Vrgyle was taken, MV.GeOfgeBarclay was preaching, and pet-uading men in thatdourttry to go to A rgyle’s assistance. After sernfolv,he said to Mr. George, Now Argyle is in the en'emy ’Shand, and gone ! Though he was mvmy rnilef distant,I had tit's account fvoiu some of these his h.drns, w hoitere present, and the last from Mr. Barclay's self.89. After this lie w as to preacli at night, at IVngrt-rochinCarrick : the mistress ofthehouse whs ioo open-minded to a woman who w-entand tukl the enemy, r.ndcamebdck to the house that she might not be suspectedftli .Peden being in tht fields, came in haste to tlk-lioorand called the mistress, and said, Ye have played &bonny sport teyourself, by being so loose-tongued. theenemy is informed that l w-as to drop a word this wgHtin this house,and the person who has done it. is in thehouse just now, and you will repent it; for to-m'orr'olvmorhing the On only will lie here. Favevvel, I w ill stayno longer in this place. The next morning both footand horse were about the house.40. In the same your, within the bounds of Garrick',John Clark, in Muirbrock, being with him, said Sif,what think ye of ttiis present ti.ne? Is it not a dark,melancholy day? Clean there be a more discour-igin*time than .tiri*? He mid. X.-.s, this k rndeeii<1a" i'.rk. ui^couraging time; but ibcn> will be a derkertiirte than thi?: Fiiese silly, graceless w retched crea¬tures the Curates, shnll go down, and after them shallarise a party ended Presbyterians, having no more thanthe. name; aqd these shall as really crucify Christ, asever he as crucified ithout the gates of Jerusalem,on 'fount Culverv, bodily 1 sey. they shall as reallycrucify Cltrist. in Ids cause and interest ii' Scotland;and shall lay liim in his grave, and Ids friends shall givehim his winding-sheet; and he sn.-dl !y, as one buried,for a considerable time. O then J6hn, there will bedarkness and dark days, such is the poor Church of.Scotland Never iyiw the like of them nor shall see. ifonce they were over! Yer. John they shall be so darkthat ifapoor t: dn.<r waubi go be tween the lZ;*t sea-bank& the 'Vest sen-bh'iik,seeking' n minister, to whom theywouidcommunicate their ease,or t-.'llthcin!the;nindof‘tlic Lord, concerning, the times she .shall not find one,”Jolm asked wliurc tlie testimony s'nonld ba then ? Me an¬swered, “In the hands of a few,who shall lie despised& undervalued by all. but especially by these ministerswho buried Christ! But after that be slid! get up onthem; and, at the crack of ids winding-sheet as manyof them as are alive, who were at his burial, shall bodistracted and mad for fear, not knowing what to do.Then, John, there shall he brave days, such as theChurch of Scotland never saw the like! but I shall noteve them, but you may.”4J. In the same year 1G8.J, preaching in the night¬time in abarnatCarrick, upon that text Psid. ixviii. l.“ Let God arise! and let his enemies be scattered! Letthem that hate him nee before him! As smoke is drivenso drive chon them!” So insisting how the coerces amihaters of God and goodness were tossed, and driven agsmoke or chulfhy the wind ot God's vengeance, whileon earth; and that wind ' mild blow them all to hellin the end: stooping down, there being chalftamongIds. fact, ha took a handful of it, and said, “ The Duke{36 r«f Voile, and now Kins of Drilain, a knoivn oncn'vof God and soodnefs, it was by t!ie vengeance ofGod that he ever got that, name but as ye see methrow away that chaff, so the wind cf’that vengeanceshall blow and drive him off that throne; and r,e perany of that name, shall ever coaie on it again.42. About this time, preaching in Garrick, in theparish of Girvan, in the day time, in the fields; DavidMason, ’then a professor, came in haste, trampling onthe peop'c to be near him ; he said, There comes thedevil's rattling-bag., we do not want him here. Aftertltis, the said David becanve officer in that bounds, and£u informer running through rattlin'; his bag & sum¬moning the people to their unhappy courtf fordheirnon-conforviity ; for that, he and his got the name ofific-dtvfk raUie-bcg to this day. Since'the Revo! utionhe complained to his minister, that he and his got thatreme ; the ministtr said Ye well deserve it, and hewas an honest man that gave it you, you and your smust enjoy it, there is no help for it.43. A little beforehis death, he was in Auehincloich,where he was born, in the house of John Richman There being two beds in the room, one for him, & onefor Andrew   , who dwelt near New-Milns. whenAndrew was going to bed, he heard him very im¬portunate with the Lord, to have pity upon the Westof Scotland, and spare a remnant, and not make a fullend in the day of his anger. And when he was off hisknees, lie walked up and down the chamber, crying,Oh! tha Monzies, the French Mohzics! See how theyrun! How long will they run? Lord cut their houghsand stay their running. Thus he continued all night,sometimes on his knees, and some.times walking —In the morning they enquired what he meant by theMonzies ? He said. O sirs! ye will have a'dreadfui dayby tlie French Monzics, and. a set of wicked men whowill take part will) them in these lands. The West ofScotland will pay dear fev it! They will run thickerin( 37 )ift the water of Ayr aad Clyde, than over the High-landmen did. I 1kv in that chamber about three yearsago. and the said John Rich man and his wife told methat those nere Jus words. At other times, to thesame purpose, lie said, O the MoRzies, the Monzies,will be through the breadth •’.ml length of the Southand West of Scotland !_(•) I think I see them at ourfire-sides, slaying man. wife and children! The rem¬nant will get a brushing, but they will be driven totae wilderness again, and tlieh sharpest hours willbe Inst.'. T° t?1® purpose spoke the two followingymnisters, viz. Mr. I liomas Ltmdfe, a godly ministerm the North of Iv'tray. His sister, a Lady in that*country, t\ no uieu in the year ibSJ, gave the follow¬ing account: That the said Mr. Lttndie, after somasickness and seeming recovery again, which com¬et ted them, one morning staying longer than ordi¬nary m his caamber, the foresail Lady-knocked atthe door; on opening it, she fouivl him very uneasy.S ic ashed him the reason, seeing he was now better?V. hereupon, sm^ng, he said, Within a few hoursl will be taien irom you; out alas! for the day thatI see coming upcm Scotland I The Lord has let mesee the I i/nc.ies marching with their armies thro*he breadth and length of the land, marching to. mob,,die-reins m the blood of all ranks, and thator a brouen, ournt and buried covenant! But neither} c nor I will live to see it. As also, one Mr. Douulasa godly minister m Galloway, a little before his death’seeming ns slumbering in his bed, his wife and otherruends Standing hy, when lie awakened, he seemedwery much weighted, and groaned heavily, saying,., d days tor .Wland' H.S wife asked him, Wlutfat,Vn C ,.,1‘tru”ei5t8? He said, The swords offoreign enemies; they tvill be heavy ncl sharp butZlrv ^7.he>?viM rt(,t nouTng^5 Sr *9! S!‘: t-.:'IT tief 3* )The late worthy Mr. Rk’Itani Cameron, spoJ:e tathe same purpose, vhea preaching at the Grass-water-side, south from Cumnock, July 20tli, 1680,eighteen day's before his death, v>. There are threeor four things that I Iniyo to teil you this day, whichI must not omit, because I wiii be but a breakfast,some hour or another, to the enemy, and my workand time will be finished. First. J s for Kinsr Charles,who is now upon the throne, after his death thereshall not be a crowned king of the name of Stuartin Scotland. Secondly, There f'util uot be an oldCovenanter’s head above the ground in Scotland,(that swore these Covenants with up-liftp'd hands')ere ye get the reformation set up. Tliirdiy, A nunshall rsde a summer-day's journey, within the shirsof Ayr, and shall not see a house, reek, or a cockCrow, ere ye get reformation, and several other shiresin Scotland shall be as ill. Fourthly, The rod thattheLordwill make, instruments of.shall be the Frenchand the French king, with a party in this land joiningwith them. But ye that stand to the testimony in thatday. be not discouraged at the lowness of yptir num¬ber, when Christ conics to set up his work in Scotland,■ he will not want men anew to work for him ; yea. hewill chap on the greatest man in all Scotland, and hewill be the greatest malignant in it, and he will say,. Sir, let alone this Babel-building, foi I have anotherpiece of work to put in your hand; and he will gar himwork whether he will or not. it may be he will con¬vert the man, and give him hh soul for a prey. \ndthcr-e are many of you that are toy hearers this day,that shall live to sec these things accomplished. Andafter these desolations are over, ye shall see the noble¬men and gentleman’s bouses so ruined, thatjtho nettles.shall be growing out of their bed-chamber^, or ye die,and 'their memory and pojstyrity shall parish fromthe earth. . ;44 The following'are'some-notes of Air. Peden'shist Sermon in the Colour wood, at the Water of Ayr,a( 39 ^a little hefoie his death. " My Muster is the rider,and I am the horse I never .ove to ride but whenI find the spurs.— I know not what I have to do a-mongst you tais night; I wish it may be for your good,for it will be the last. It islong since it was our desireto God, to have you taken off our hand; and now heis granting us ourdesife. There are four or five thingsI have to tell you tins night. First, A. bloody sword,a bloody sword for tiiee O Scotland, that shall tearthe hearts of many. Secondly, Many miles shall youtravel, and shall see nothing but desolations and ruin¬ous wastes in thee O Scotland. Thirdly, The fertilestplaces in Scotland shall be as waste and desolate asthe mountains. Fourthly, The women with child shallbe ript up, and dashed to pieces. Fifthly, Many a con¬venticle has God had in thee O Scotland! but ere longGod will have a conventicle that will make Scotlandto tremble Many' a preaching has God wared uponthee, but ere long God’s judgments shall be as fre¬quent as these precious meetings were, wherein hesent forth his faithful servants, to give faithful warn¬ing of the hazard of thy apostacy from God, in break¬ing, buintng and burying his Covenant; persecuting,slighting and contemning tint gospel; shedding tlveprecious blood of his saints and servants.—God sentforth a VV el wood, a Kid and a King, a Cameron anda Cargil, and others, to preach to thee; but, ere long,God shall preach.to thee by fijje and a bloody sword!God will let none of these men’s words fall to theground, tlat he sent forth with a commission to preach. these things in his ngjne: He will not let cae sentence,fall to the ground, but they shall have a sad accomp¬lishment. to the sad experience of many.” In Ifisprayer after sermon, he said, Lord, thou hast beenboth good and kind to auld Sandy, through a longtract of time, and given him many years in thy ser¬vice, which has been but as so many months; butnow he is tired of tHj wb.-jd and hath dene all the® i.'- . -dv; good{ 4S 5good in It that he will do; let him win awe.3’ with thehonesty lie has, for lie will gather no more.4-5. V\ hen the day of his death drew near, and notbeing able to travel, he came to his brother’s house,in the parish of Sorrf, where he was born: h'e caused<bg a cave, with a sanghen bush covering the mouth•of it, near to his brother’s house; and the enemiescame and searched the house narrowly many limes.In the time that lie was in this cave, he said to somefriends, 1. That God shall make Scotland a desolation.12. There shall be a remnant in the land, whom God■should spare and hide. 3. They should lie in holesend caves of the earth, and be supplied with meat andth' ik; and when they come out of their holes, they?shall not have freedom to walk, for stumbling on thedead corpses. 4- \ stone cut out ofa mountain, shouldcome down, and God shall he avenged on the greatones of'the earth, and the inhabitants of the land, fortheir wickedness, and then the church should comeforth with a bonny bairn-time of young ones at herback. He wished that the Lord’s people might ly hidin their caves, as if they were not in the wadd, for no¬thing would do it, m il God appeared with hik >udg-jnents, and they th .t wan tin ough the bitter and sharpshort storm, hy the sword of the F: t;nchfc§; and a setof unhappy men, taking part with them, then therewould be a spring, tide day of the plenty, purity andpower of the gospel; giving them that for a sign, ifhe were but once buried, they might be in viubts; bullif he. wera oftner buried than once they might be per¬suaded that all he had said would come to pass ; andearnestly desired them to take his corpse out to Airds-moss, and buty them beside Riehy ( Mr. Cameron),that he rmeht got rest in his grave, for he had gottenlittle thro’ his life: hut he said he knew they would notdo it. He told them that bury him where they would,Tie would be lifted again; but the man that put first tohend te lift corpse; four tilings shouldbefal him.1. He( 41 )\I. He, shojaH gep e sreat fail from a horse. 2. Heshould fail into ai'ultfrv. 3. Into k eft ; and that foithis lie should leave the laud. 4. Make a melancholyend abroad for murder. Which accordingly came $6pass. There was one Murdoch, a mason to his trade,out then in the military service, who first put handsto his corpse.A little before his death he said, “Ye shall he angryinhere I shall be buried at last, but I discharge you alltp lift my corpse again.” \t last, one morning early, hecape to the door and left his cave; his brother's wifesaid, Vy’here are you going, the enemy will be here?He said, J know that. Alas. Sir, said she what willbe :yme of you ? You must go back id the cave ogaiu.He said, ,m i have done with th t. for it discovered'Rut .tjp.t;re is no matter, for within forty eight hours I4willjbg-rbpyond the reach of all the devil's temptations,and,ni|§ instruments, in hell or on the earth . and theyshall trouble me no more.” Aboutthree hours alder heentered the house, the enemy came and found hirn not.ip the cave; then they searched the barn n ar rowh,. cast-ingthe unthreshSdcorn; and searched-thi houS;, st*h-ibing the beds but entered >>)t the place where hi' lirv.Within forty-eight injurs he died, .lanuir t 23. 1686,being past cintv years; and was buri.-d in the l.*rd ofAfflect’slsje. The enemies got nolievof tisdeath andburial.andsent:»troop ofdragoons, and lifted bis tiorpseanil carried ii*m to Cumnoidc-gaTTows-foot arid buried.him there (ifterbeing forty-days in theerave) besidieothers. Hisfriemts thereafter laid a,grave-stone above^ ihnn, with this inscription:Here tiesMr. ALEXANDER PEDEN,AJfrjfhfid Minister of ike Gospel at GLENL UCE,IVho iLparted this Life, JuKtiqrt, 28 1886.And ivas raised after Six iVeeks. out of kis Grave,d$:<f buriiJ here out <f contempt.After this, that troop of Drjgoonscame totpiurteriniiisparwii at-ijrjxibusticthen: fwo of theav were guar-X> ,3 ittrsd( 4* 1’•orci ia the 'house of James Cray, my acquaintance;♦ ncy being frighte'S in their sleep, started up, d- clappedtheir hands,cry ing.Peden,Peder. These twodragponsaffiroied, that out of curiosity they opened his rodin,-to see his corpse, and yet he had no smelt, though hehad been forty days dead.Ali the foregoing articles I was assured of. except the40th. which is said lie spoke to John Clai k in Muirbrock,within the bounds of Carrick, in the year 1085, and hasbeen passing from hand to hand in writ. 1 sent a friendtwenty miles to him, for the certainty of it: & althoughhe was my old acquaintance, he delayed to give it. Butlam ir formed, that some other friends enquired a* thesaid John, who owned that the 10th. passage was alt onefor substance, with what Mr. Peden said to him.There are other two passages I have often heard, anddoubt nothing of the truth of them, though the limes■& places be not mentioned, vis. One day preaching inthe fields, in his prayer he prayed earnestly for the pre¬servation of the” people, and again *v again he.prayeuTor that man that wastolosehis life, i’he enemies cameUpon them the same daj, and fired upon the people, andthere was none of them either wounded or killed, saveone man, and he was shot dead. Another time he waspreaching, and giving a very large offer of Christ, inthe gospel terms: an old woman being sitting befoirhim,he laid bis hand w.,n each side of her head &rockedher f o,u side toside, and said, “ Thou wfreh wife, thouwitch-wife, tnou witch-wife, 1 offer Christ to thee!Quit the devil’s service, thou, hast a bad master; thouyvi It never make thy pi ack i babee of him: But if thou*■wilt break off and renounce the devil’s service, I pro-■taise thee, in my Master’s name, that he will give theeSalvation.” Yfur this,there was a diecernabJe change tin her pr ictice; & when she was a-dying she confess-!ed that she was cither engaged in the devil’s service,or was engaging: and expressed her thankfulness thathad th&happiaess to hear .Mr. pedea at that time.PartI.Ctmlahiiiig Thirty nm additional PxsefgesSN ■the yfar 1660. when the Lord’s persecuted LOjipresseu people were gathered together fortheir own defence, who were broken at Pentlartd-hills,he, with Mr. Welch & the Laird of Glorowr. in the pa¬rish of Baler.trea, were riding together in that parish,they met upon the way aparty of the enemy’s horse, andno eviting ofthem; the Laird fainted,fearing they would■all ba taken. Mr. Peden seeing this, said, ‘‘ Keep upyour courage & confidence, for God hath laid an arrestupon these men. that they shall not harm us.” Whenliev met, they were courteous, and asked the way:Mr. Peden went tiff the way, and shewed the fu#d ofthe water of Tit. When lie returned, the L lire! said,“ Why did you go with them? Voumighthave sent thelad with them.” He said, “No no; it was more salefor me; for they might h*re asked questions at the lad,and he mighthave fainted anddiscov* reu us. For my-s^lf, l knew they would be like the Egyptian dogs, theyWould not move a tongue against me; for my hour offalling into their hands, & the day of trial, is not come,that is abiding me.” There is an old Christian gentle¬woman. yet alive in Edinburgh, a daughter of the saidLaird’s, who told me of late, that she had Several timesheard her father-give an account of this. Jihe abo toldjne, since Bothwel-bridge fight, site iieard him preachin the fields, in the foronid parish; and a woman sit** ting before the tent looking up to him, he said Howhave you the confidence to look up? L'*okdown to hell,where you are going; tlie devil has a fast grip of ^ era,& will not lose it.” That worn an lived &died und-tr themala Jama of a witch, and presumpt •as of the same.<1. About the year 1670, he was m Armagh in Ire¬land, one John Goo dale, with hiswife.twoseriou- zeal-pus Christians, living in Amegh , who had gone front( 44 )a jv!:vel-\vrjg!it to Ms etpployment,'Ins zeai was suca against the superstitious worship,iojJ keeping §ai man_\ -itoty day?,.l,ijat w Hen people weregoing anti eomiir^ by his shop-door, lie wrought mosthard; for urhichhe was exc0ammmc?fs: Wljon he toldJlr. Po len. he said. Rejpioa John, that you are eastout of the devil’s cou.pt bciog. After this, preachingprivately in John's house in his prefaoc he said OurLord has been taking great pains on you ia Ireland,ta.it you might learn your lesson per quire, and feyhave been bnrughf to.say it pif the book. He has gota goodly company in Scotland, that he is learning,and they are brave scho>.;s; but, ere tong, hp wijltry some of you with it sjso: He wjll say. Coipa out,thou man in Armagh, and thou man in Benbnib, andsuy-your lessen oft’the book. The Rkshop of \re;agh(where the great Mr. Usher was formerly Bishop)and his underling, were so enraged against the saidJohn, that he rody tv.enly njiles to Dnbdn to get30 order of caption from t..* Lord Lieutenant there,for apprehending tjje said John and also GeorgeFleming, in Benton b wlueh he easily obfamed; andsminy quickly back, and was in such haste to elfhverhisorder, that upon horse back he c.dieo for the chef ma¬gistrate: When delivering bis conwiisgioo, his liorse«ast uphis head, & gave him such a stroke f.o the breast,4hal he died the £vth or 5th ayy thertaftef, GeorgeFleming went out of the way, y. ho was fgther to me4ato Mrs. Fteming that Ghri.-tnn piqi'ioriy woman,who kept a school in thcLas.tle-hill, and ri ed there.The -Kforesaid John was imixgihately phi in prison |3His wife arm Ataer friends came t» visjt him: his wifesaid. Now, any dear, learn to s%- your icssoo oft’ thebook. He answered, 1 am much objityd to you, that>dnds me of ti*)t note. The j ilor, at night, said,John you are called, an Ivpnest nuu, new if you will-promise to.-retur-n -to morrow, 1 wi t ft : you home toy um- sbed. John Aaid, M Jhat i avil: umt .tui.” fheLccpejr( 45 )keenerg-ntl, Will yrm run for it? Mo snid, No. nojI have done no ill thing, tliat needs make me eitherafraid or urchsm . h Well, said the keeper, go hometo your bed, and I will send for you in the morning.When he went home, it was his ordinary in family^Woiship to slug these lines in the 109th Psalm,Few be his days, and in Ins roomIIis charge another take, &c.When ended, he said to his wife, I never found sucha gale upon tny spirit, as in the singing of these lines,bhe said it was so wLth her also. Well, said he. let uscommit our case and cause to the Lord, and wait onhim, and we shall know the meaning of this after¬wards. The unhappy man fell immediately ijl, andsaid, that all this mischief had come upon him, forwhat he had done against John Goodale; and causedwrite, and signed a discharge, and sent it to the saidJohn, that he might not he troubled for the expencehe had been at in getting that caption. Ke died u'i*-tier great horror of Conscience. Notwithstanding hewas detailed three years prisoner, working at his em¬ployment in the Teibootb in the day time, and wenthome to his bed at night. The said Jolm and his wifereturned to Scotland, and died since the RevolutionsHis wife, when dying at Leith, gave this relation.3. When Mr. Peden was prisoner in Edinburgh*,under sentence bf banishment. James Milky merch¬ant in Kirkcaldy, was under the same sentence; andhis wife came to visit him: Mr. Peden said to her.It is no wouder you be troubled with your husband’s-going to the plantations, but if any of us go theseat this, time, the Lord never Kpoke by me.4- In their voyage to London, they had opportu¬nity to command the ship, and make their escape,but would not adventure upon it without hia advice,-:He said, Let alone, the Lord will set us all at libertyip a way more for his own glory and our safety.( 46 )J. W'U* tins t'rw. in their voyage, on tiie Sabba'h,thi prifmers pnfitd fnm ’o preac t, the wind blowingvery ha-d n t .a fermon he ftid Up y ur hearts lads,and be not difeounaged, for thir'man thfaght he. had gota pr’se. when he got the gift of u-: from the wicked,*1 >ody Gounfel; but, in a. ft \v days, he fhall br as cladto be quit of us, as ever lie was to get us. A littletime a. o. [ had a long fC'dl of ma:ty accounts aboutMr. Peden, from.an aid G iriflian Eugl.fn gentleman,who vy,J mtjoh in hy company, ard, gave.me many notesof oisferm ns, and aff-rts thetruthof many things I havefa:d about him. that he was wi.'ncfs to and f orte otherperfms of grrat integri y. fie aflured me, the onlyinfttument ti>e Lord raifed up for the relief of I4r Peden,©nd thefe tix prifoners with him, wa- mv Lot-d Shaftef-%ury, who was always, tryindlv to Pr.ib tevianf. Heyrent to, Charles 11. and. upon his knees- beggpd theceleafe of thefe prifoners. but, could pot prevail, f ben* be went to the mnfter of the, (hip, a: d told him. that ifhe did not Cet thefe prifoners at liberty, he fbouid neverfail in Etiglifh. feas. At rchgtb !■ - ,'tii d -wn,V> G; avef«end, and fet them at liberty. Af cr that the Scot? and£ iglifh {hawed, more riiari ordinary kiedhtf* to thariltwJiic i fhould be kept in rem->uibiance with tba kfgir,«ing to the Lord, for favouring our oipcrsis.4. After they, were fet at lib rt y, he fta» gd at Loncop,^nd through E igleud, u,-til June t’p,;9. Ujjou tlic 21ftof June he was come to t ;c iouth of Scotland beingSaturday, the. day before the Lord’s people fell and fi dbefore the ^nerny at Bothwei-bridgc; in hr excicifc tua family, he cried put, *• 1 will tell you, firs, our delivep-§nce will never come by the fword. Many, thought,wnen the bifyopi were firft let up thflt tliey wou:d pot00 timie feyen years but I »as never of f-et >• 11S:i,t is now near three feyens, but thev w !l not fee thefourth fevep. but I ^ear they will cootp ucor to it ’—■ Wliiclt fadi.y came to pafs.' 7 id,. ti.at n giit to the fields- and c.tm «n..«aSajadatlt--morning, afcjiU ttta fua-tifiivg-, wtqunf and( 47 )Ws'’-8nd;. Onr John jia’pfon, s porUerinu re'd w'at t> e fratter was that made in w-.pp?Jde f.-irl, l 1 avc b'-eii wrcftling a'! night witt/ G > , torour friends that are in*the ^'cft.'bu; cannot prevail —I gave an account in t’ e fonrer p.’IT es that abouttie middle ot that cav, ma1 y p-opb wei > w.-urr.,. f rfermon vrlve.n f D'c told him. he laid l.« the people goto ti-<ir piayer*. f f can preet > ii' iie; »,br frieir:* a'^call fl.d and fallen bcfTe the enemy, an': t ty art hag-gin?, arid'haftin-g thern d 'vin p !<J-their bibod is riiiiniegH^e water. At ri; ht he v.-ar eelrtd to tiippei. fiaVihgtailed nattitiiy th<«t day, fevt'ol -nerds beinc prefent.In ftr kin ! -abl dTi rg, he Jjrt.ke out' in r: p in e t-fweei irgand4 lamentation;, fur that fad ftrpfce i:pon t e bodies ofliie L. rd's(people.blit tnudi m-refor the desd-ft'oke ’hegfeateftpart had gb* upon their Spirits t a’ ve ry r w of■ the rtii'iiVetj Snd proff Hors of Sc'iland flu.-tih• r t over ;whieh feo.iy held t . ae a' I fo-ttierlv me tidn'-d in Sc ap s•f (Vrifm'gs bfthai’biaft of Eaft withering wind. He alfoiitCfted in ptftter'finr tile wo'ilndfd. who w^rt waMy-wingto death ’rrtheir Wood; sr.d W the nianv pnlonei• —When c. • d, he went • if and ail others witVnt tailingof th'eir flipper tho’ it ’.vat upon t'e table. He was thenfo. ty or fifty milis ciftant from Bothwel-bridst.8. About this time he was p'eaciiiiu' in the Sauth,on t at text, • ■ But they are nor grieved for tl e rffl dlionsof Jufepb." He hsd nianv edifv ing rcmaiks up>ni tli«fi tegv ing virfes. efpti ia !y upon the fi ft. 'k Wo untothem that are at eale in Zion,.” He ir filHa upon t etm.i nature of giieving ; a d lamented that there wasf little grit-vi^g for ths prefer; great nfficti n> ol theCi.ujch ot Sc tla: d. Pointing to a w man ftstdingamongli the pe plr, ii»- {'aid. Some cf you wyl! grieveaid greet more frr the drewning bf a bi1 calfpofli lctjigu ever y» d(d 1 r yjl the. t\ ranr.y ami celtdl ons of» .{jcpstand. T^.t fad a caifdx wuod p few aaysbefore, for w1 ic; lb. made gr^at noife. Siie c .alleagjedKb la.-iilacy for. iclluig iik nurdfkr that fee grate forke*.( 43 )tier eaid She repli i'l, I could not tell hits! what ihnew not, and as little did he. At the same time see¬ing some of the people turning '.veary, he said, Ye arenot taking notice, some of you are thinking upon onething, and some upon another. The Lady Hundelsopsitting near him, but knew her not, he turned to her,® id said. And ye are thinking on greeting Jock at thefire-side. This was a son of hers, that she had leftvery weak of a decay at the fire-side upon a couch.She sold several afterwards, that the very time therewas a draw of anxiety ever whelmed her about him.9. In the year ISS'J, he went to Ireland: Peter Aird,.who lived in the parish ofGulsto'un.vIio was taken withno, and imprisoned together, ta!d me, that he followedhim some goad piece of the way to detain him until hegot his child baptized: He Mid, I resolve tocotne backshortly - ami I hope the Lord will preserve your child.Which accordingly he did ; and after baptism he saidto Petet, If the man of the parisli (Mr. James Yeitch,cue of the actually indulged) had baptized your child,vou would have got your horned beasts kept, but rowyou will lose them. Which came to pass irva few daysafter. The enemy came and took away his cattle,every hoof, but he fled with his horses.ID. The same year 1682, he married John Kirklandnnd Janet Lindsay,both my very dear acquaintances,who told me, that when they were standing beforehim, he sighed deeply, and said, pirst one hu-vimlkilled, nnd then another, and must have a third ! If itmust he so, let her say, Good is the will of the Lord.Which came to pass: her husband, Thomas Weir, inCumberhead, was deadly wounded at Drumclog, byClaverhouse, June 1st, 1679, being the'Sabbath-day,nnd died the5th day; and Ensign-John Kirkland waakilled in Flanders. Kerslam! Fullerton and he weretnried inure grave; nnd siucu, William Spence,baillie4in Coulter, who also wa; my intimate acquaintance,nwrrtfid h«rK They r.ro-hwh now ir-theiv g-rayp V ■( 49 >U. Tn th? year IGBt, he was in Ireland, in thehouse of John Slowaa in the parish of Conert, inthe county of Antrim; about ten, o’clock at night,sitting at the fire-side, discoursing with some people,started to bis feet, and said. Flee auld Sandie, an'ihide yourself, for Colonel is coming to this hous'ito apprehend you; and I advise you all to do the like,for th/:v will be here within an hour. Which came topass. And when they had made a very narrow searchwithin and without the house, and went round thethmm-bush under which he was lying praying, theywent oft' without their prey. He came in and said,And has tins gentieni tn (des:«:unghim by hi/ name)given poor Sandie and thir poor things such a fright?For this night’s work, God shall give him s*ch a blowwithin a few days, that all the physicians on earthshall not be able to cure H. Which came to pass;for he died in great misery, vermin flowing from allthe parts of his body, with such a noisome stink,that few could enter the room where he lay.12. About the same time he wes in the said parishand'bounty; one Mr. David Cunningham, ministerthere, in the meeting-house, on a Sabbath-day brokeout in viry great reflections on Mr. Peden, and thesethat heard him. One Mr. Vernor. one of Mr. Cun¬ningham’s elders, u'as very much offended at it, andtold Mr. Peden. on Monday, what Mr. Cunninghamhad said. Mr. Peden. walking in his garden, took aturn about, and cam'' back, and charged him to go andtell Mr.Cunrdngl-. m from him, thatbeforeSaturday’snight he should be as free of a meeting house as hewas; which came to pass. And lie was charged, thatsame week, not to enter his meeting-house, under thepain of death. This account one John M George, inthe parish ofOrr, in Galloway gives, who was present.13. About the same time, he was in the house of: the foresaid John Slowan, who was a great friend toour Scots sufferers, who fled there from the perse-F. cutipn( 5° )cution here, fis I have heard Jeon MiTirheadOthers give account. His son, John SJon sn. gave methis and several other distin j aecom ts. The fore-said Mr. Cunningham can iedover many of the review*of ft.eHistery of the Indulgence to sprcedin Ireland,in defence of the Indulgence here. When Mr. FedenIreard of them, he said to sortie friends. Re not dis¬couraged, for these books will do no hurt here; I sawthe sale of them spilt this last night. And soit cameto pass, the most oftl em was returned to Scotland.Ih He was preaching one Sabbath-night fu thesaid John Slowanshouse, a great nmnbcr both withinand without hearing him; where he insisted on thegreat need and usefulness of seeking and getting spi¬ritual riches. He brought in an example, that if anyman was going to Belfast or Bellhnony, he wo«dd helookinghis pocketsfor what he had to bear his chargesA man standing wHiiout, said quietly, Lord help the ifor I have nothing to bear mine. Mr. Feden said inn:mediately, pointing to thedoor, Poor man. do notfearfur I have it out of heaven, as with an audible voicethy charges shall be borne in a remarkable manner!That man has been remarkably supported ever since:and that in the way of his duty.15. In the same place, in a Sabbath-morning :Camily-wprship. he sang the crtlth Psalm, verse lit!He said, Sirs, I charge you to sing this Psalm in faithfor we will have a room-throne bely ve; some one hatgiven him a deadly blow, tho’ poor Monmouth hatno hand in it. A fowler, when he shoots a bird,may rise and flee, but not far, for there is some <the shot in it. Within ten days after, the news <;the death of Charles H. was confirmed.16. About the same time lie said to James SlowaiWe must go to another house, for 1 am mistaken j|there be not a very harrow search made this nigh iThey went to William Craig s, and James went wi >them to the l^use, and returned to his own bed-W'h<( Si )iW-ien he awaked, t:he house was full of people,| constables and otherv, making seareh for prisoners,iwlio had broken nri.so» nod ded, bat ibund none.17. M’rs. Max'.vel, or 'lary Elphiogstbn, yet alive,! whom 1 mentioned in the former passages, whosei heart's thoughts Mr. Peilen told, when her cb.ld was( baptized ; tliat child is now a married woman and(lias children of her own, whom 1 spoke with aboutj three months ago. She came far (from Kilmarnock).to public occasions, about fifty miles distance. The(said Mrs. M.ixwel told me since, that when she told(me that, she forgot to tell me also, that when the! child was in her father’s arms, Hr. Peden said, Thatchild’s coming here gt this time, is a testimony agiainstthe unfaithfulness of the ministers of Ireland. Thepeople in Ireland think that Carolina in America willbe a refuge for them; but it shall be no shelter tothem: And these of them designing to go there atthis time, many of them shall lose their lives, and thei rest shall come home in great distress. And, at that1 time, there were two ships setting out from Irelandj to Carolina; one of them w£s cast away near Caro¬lina, and seven score of people in her, the one half ofwhom were lost. Mr. James drown, minister in Glas¬gow since the Revolution, wu-; one of seventy pre¬served. The other ship was el iven back t« Ireland,much shattered, and the people in great distress.18. One time travelling alone in Ireland, the nightsame on, and a djirk mist, which obliged him to gointo a house belonging to a Quaker: Mr. Peden said,I must beg the favour of the reof of your house allnight. The Quaker said, Thou art a stranger, thouart very welcome, and shaft be kindly entertained ^but l cannot waifTipon thee, f-jr I am going to themeeting ^ Mr Peden said. 1 w l gp along with you,'I i>e Quaker said, i’hou may, if ;,\iou pit ase; but thoumust g :t trouble us. He said, I will be civil. Whenthey came to the meeting, as tVir ordinary is, they£ 2 sat( p )£Et for some time siJent, seme witl their faces to thewall, and others covered. There being a Void in theJolt above them, there came do .rn the appearance ofa raven, and sat upon one man’s head, who started uprmmediatfly, and spoke with such vehemence, thatthe froth dew from his mouth. It went to a secondjand he did the same; and to a third, who did as theformer two. Mr. Peden sitting near to his lan i'ord,said. Do you not see that: Ye will not deny it after¬wards? When they dismissed, goinghome, Mr. Ptdcrjsaid to his landlord, I always thought there was dewil-ry among you, but never thought that he did appearvisibly among you, till now that i have sech it. O forthe Lord’s sake quite this way, :giQ ftoe to the LordJesus, in whom there is redemption, thro’ his blood,eten the forgiveness of all you? iniquities The poorman fell a-weeping, and said, l perceive thatGod hathsent you to my house, and put int.ryour heart to goalong with me. and hath permitted the devil to appearvisibly among us this night; I never saw the like be¬fore. Let me have the help of your prayers, for Iresolve, thro’ the Lord’s grace, to follow' this waybo longer. After this he became a singular Christian,and, when lie was dying, blessed the Lord who, inmercy, sent the man of God to his house.19. There is an old Christian woman living at theWater of Leith, that in the beginning of 1G85, wentto Ireland, to the forccrid parish of Conert (being bigwith child) to an aunt's house, who lived there: shortlyafter she was safely delivered, & Mr. Peden baptizedher child. Af;er she recovered, she went on aSabbathmorning to theforesaid John Slowan’shouse, (whereMr. Peden was) expecting si rmon: being snow, sheand others sat in the,kitchen, at the fire side; thenMr. Peden came & ea'led for water to wash his hands:y hen he saw them, be said. For what do you come"^vere, without ye had been advertised? for 1 have no-viitig prepared for ^ou. ■ The* u hi, G Sir, you must 'not( 53 )cot send us away empty, for we-are in a starving conaUtion.” He said, I cannot promise you; but if I can getanything, ye shall not want it."’ A little while thereafterhe called, ami said, “ Let not these people away, for Iwill co ne to them shortly.” vVhich he did, & preach¬ed upon that text, The da?/ being far epenty they con-strained him to Tarry all night-. Where lie broke outin strange raptures, expressing his fears of the Lord’sdepartureiVm these lands. Hesaid. “ Englandforsu-p.rstinon and profanity Ireland for security and for-muiity, great shall thy stroke be! For in a few years,ye may travel forty miles in Ireland, and not get a lightto your pipe!” Which came to pass four years there-after, in the last rebellion. He said also, ■ O Scotland!many, long & great shall thy judgements be, of all kinds,e.-pecialiy the \Vest& South, for loathing & contemptof toe gOipei, covenant-breaking burning & burying,& sheading of innocent, precious, dear blood. O! altye mat can pray tell all the Lora’s people to tr\. bymourning and prayer to teagle him. )! see if ye canJteagle, him, teagle him, teagie him, especially in Scot-lam; ; for we tear he will soon depart from it.” V, henended, he s bd, “ Take ye that among you. & makea good use <af it; for l have gotten it new & fresh out«i ueaven, having nothing inf it this morning.” FhefoTe-sani Jotin Muibiegd, & the said old woman, & oth.-rs,tola me, tney were uev.tr witnesses to such a day, foxmany tears, both froiK preacher and hearers.20. After this, this old woman longed to be home toScot .and, her husband (whose name was i’aton ) beingin danger and hearing of vuch a killing in Scotland,being 1G85 oneofthebloady years, upon scaffolds andin tne fields (& indeed the din-.was no greater than thedeed) a bark being to go off wuh passengers, she re-■solvingtogoalong wen? to take licrj^aveof Air. Peden,,& found him in a wood v ith John Afairhead, k othersa)f our Scots epffertis. She told him hec design. & helatusesLaiit&lej and then said, •• Go not awtill!speak£ 3- " with( 54 )you. ’ He tooit a turn through the woju. i wlicuhe came back, he »aid, Janet, go back to your aunt’ ;,for you will nipt see Scotland these five month'-,; there'will strange things go through Scotland ere you go to it,you see a remarkable providence in your beingctopt.” The bark went eft’ and was cast awiiy, and 1Ypassengers’coq.ise were cast out at the place where theytook ship; JohnMuirhead gave me this account also.21. After he came to Scotland, in the beginning ofMarch H>85) flying from the enemy on horseback. &the}' pursuing, he was forced to ride a water, where hewas in great danger of being lost: When he got out,he cried, ’ Lads, lollownot me, for I assure yoir.ye wantmy boat, and so will certainly drown. Consider whereyour landing will be! ye are fighting for hell, A-running ;post to it.” Which affrighted them to ejater the water.22. At another time, being hard pursued, he was for¬ced to take a dang< rous bog <S: a kioss before him: Oneof the Dragoons,more forward tnan therest, run himselfinto the bog, & be & his horse were never seen more.23. Lying sick in a village near Cumnock, he told hfslandlord, who was afraid to keep him in his holtse thesoldiers being to travel through that town the next day,“ Ye need not fear to let me stay in your house, for someof these soldiers shallkeep centry at this door, but shallnotconacin.” Which came to pass: His landlord beibgdiggingstones at theendofthat village, told the officershe was afraid the soldiers would plunder his cottage, jThey said. Poor man, yen deserve encouragement |for your virtue; be not zl’raid of your house, we willorder two soldiers to stz.nd at your door, that no manenter to wrong you.” Which they did.21. He lying sick about tae same time, his landlordwas afraid to keep him in his house. The enemy beingin search of h idriig people, he was obliged to make a bedfor him ampr.g the standing corn at which time therewas a grezt rising of tae water, but not one drop to beOhiCt*r-d within tuft foot of his bed.( 55 )¥$. About thislimc he carry: to GerTiHcl, in Mtc pr:-tlsh of Mnuchlm tothcbouseoF^iatthr rr Hojr. a sniittr.He went to his barn, but thought liimseif not r ar'e, foot-& horse of the enemy being searching for wanderers,as they were then called, lie desired the favour of hisloft.which Mattiicw refused: lie -raid, “Well wdl.poorman. you will not let me have the shelter of your mof;but that house shall be f oar judgement & ruin.” Sometime after, the gave4, of that house fell, and killed bothhim and his son. Their bodies were severely crushed.26. About the same tinto. he came to Andrew Nop*mand’s house in the parish of Allow ay. shire of Ayr,beingto preach at night in iiis barn. After he came in,he halted a little,leoning on a chair-back, with his facef overed. When he lifted up his head, he said. “ Theyare in this house that I have not one word of rsJvationunto!” He halted a little again,saying. “ This is strange,that the devil will not go out, that we may begin ourwork,” Then there was a •roman went out, ill lookedon for a witch. John M airhead (formerly mentioned)told me, that when he came from i reland toy-mlloway,he was at family-worship, and giving some notes uponthe scripture read, there was a very ill-iooking mancame in, and sat down wit’,in the door He halted andsaid, ‘4 There is somtrunhappy body just now come intothis house, l charge him to go out, and not stop mymouth.” The man went off, and lie insisted; but hesaw him neither come in, nor go out.27. In that bloody yearlGS.'i, ho came to a house inthe shire of Ayr, Captain John Matthison & other 12of our wanderers being in the house he said, ‘ Lads,ye must go to the fieidjs& seek your beds, for the enemywill We here this night, and 1 11 go to my cave.” They.said, ‘ Some of us will stay with you, ibr you will wearyalone.’ No said he, I wiil not weary. Ter a sign thatthe enemy will bediere this i^hLagodly eminent Chris¬tian man, whom I often have heard of, but never saw,will come and ly with me this night.” All which oameto pass: f* the meu fled, uud he entered the cave, and' fell:?;V ( ^•fell slittle thereafter tliesahl tew comingto the fantih’. askad ftvMr. Peden,and desired accessto the cave, to ly with him: When in bed lie: found,Mr. Peden slumbering. Init in a little he awoke, and,naming the man, asked him how" he did? The soldierstame that night, but missed their prey. The nextmorning, whervlhesesaid men returned, he said, “ Ladsit was well I came to this house yesternight, otherwiseye had been among their bloody hands this day.28. In the said year lft85 he came to Welwood,to Captain John CampbeK’s, he having escaped out ofCanongate-Tolbooth in the month of August 1681-.Being in danger every day he resolved to go to Ame¬rica. and took farewti of his friends, and went abc/ruof a ship. Mr. Peden said to Vis mother, “ M istress,wliat is became of John?” She said. “He is gone toAmerica.” He said, “ No‘. no! he is not gone; Sendfor him,for he will never see Amer'ea.” Accordinglyit was so; a storm arose, where he wasin great danger,but was preserved, and is yet alive.29. {■•* ice the publishing of the former passages ofMr. Peutn’s life and death I received two letters fromSir Alexander Gordon of Earlsioun in the year 1725,& 1726, since gone to his grave; shewing, that he wasnot only fully sati.-fied, but np'ch refreshed with thepassages,requesting me net to delay the publishing ofa I thatl proposed; and that he longed to see them bt -Tore he went off the staget Knowing thatmy day isiarspent, being long since I was his fellow-prisoner ami■taught him from my-own experience, how to manage•the great weight of irons that was upon his legs; andwishing that all the Lord's people, who have any zealfor the sworn- to and sealed testimony and svvourvre-Biembrance r.f the names of Christ’s slain wdhesses for•the s-tme, and of the Lord's signal inantfestatiansofhisTaiihfulness and all-sutEciency te them, :n their -hie &•deaLh, would give me ad encouragement in such apiece»af£oad and ^reat jjencratisli-.work, wiufllMJUj be use-( 57 )ful and edifying, when he and I are both moulderingin the dust. For hmiself, he wilmigly would, <& some¬time a-day could; but now, being 7 ± years of age, andSeven years in imprisonment, and often-times in ironsand many other troubles thro’ his life, his memory andjudgment were much broke, therefore he could makeme little help. Only lie remembered lie was once sentfrom the Societies in Galloway to Garrick, to call onMr. Peden to preach: When he told him for what endhe was come, Mr. I’eden went for some time alone;when he returned he sa’d, I a ay sorry. Earistoun, youare come so far in vain, far I cannot obey your desire,I can get nothing to say to your people. No • ng willconvince thisgeneration but judgments.and a surpris¬ing lump of them on the West of Scotland. Earlstounsaid, Sir, you was once legally ordained and authorisedto preach the gospel, and the Lord’s people’s call issufficient; I think you are under a temptation of en¬thusiasm. Mr. Peden said, he sometimes feared that;but since he was driven from his people at Glenluce,his Master in mercy and goodnot, gave him moreencouragement; and gave one instance, That one timehe was called, and resolved, and prepared to go, as liethought; but, when his horse was drawn, he went intoa barn, where he was stvipt bare of all his thoughts,and a darkening, damping cloud overwhelmed 1dm,which stopt him: aud he afterwards saw a remarkableprovidence in it, and need-be for it. \nd, further,,he said, The last time lie saw Mr. Peden, it was withMr Cargil, where they continued a long time toge¬ther comparing notes; seeing with one eye, thinkingwith one mind, and speaking with om. breath of altthings, past, present, and also what was to beful thischurch and nation.30. In his last sermon, which, as I said before,was in the Colm-wood, he said, That in a tew yearsafter his death, there would be a wonderful alter*-iiwi.of affairs in Britain, and It eland, add tUe per*..*cution-( 53 )tuition in Scotland should cease; upon which everybody should believe the deliverance was come, andconseque ntly would fali fatally secure. But i fell you,said he. you will be all very far mistaken; for bothEngland and Scotland will be scourged by foreigners,and a set of unhappy men in these lands taking partwith them, before any of you cau pretend to be hap-• pv. or get a thorough deliverance, which will be amore severe chastisement than any other they havemet with, or can come under, if that were over.o o o o c oALET TEI*,F/IOMMr. ALEX VNDER PE DEN,To the Prisoners in DyxNoTA r-Castle,July 16S5.Dear Friends.I Long to hear from yon, how you spend yourtime, and hew the grace of Sod -rows in yourhearts. 1 know ye, and other of the Lord’s people,by reason of the present trial, have got up a fashionef complaining upon Christ; but I defy you to speakan ill word of him, unless ye wrong him. Speak aayou can, and spare not; only I request that your ex¬pressions of Christ be suitable to yo;Tr experience ofhi m. If ye think Christ’s house be bare and ill-pro¬vided. and harder tiian ye looked for, assure your¬selves Christ minds only- to diet, and not to hungeryou; our Steward kens when to spend and when tospare. Christ knoi«r full well, whether heaping orsoaking agrees best with our narrow vessels for bothare alike to him: Sparing wdl net enrich !vm, nor wiljSpending impoverish him. tie thinks it id- won .Muu isliolclen «it' his people. Grace and Ajiory comes out ofCi’Jfisi'sGhrist’slucky hanr?. Oi:f v:.-rsc1? are ?frcWeas, Ail'Scontain little: His fulness is most straitned w e . itwants a vent. It is tsssr fsir Christ to be hoMen busyin riividini! the fulness of hie Father’shoase tohis poorfriends: lie delights not to keep mercy over night.Every day brings new mercies to^be people of tin 1;He is the easiest mere'tint ever the people of Codyoked with: !f ye be pleased w:th the wares, what of *his graces make-best for you,he and you w’-! soon sorton the price . he wifi sell goods cheap th;:t ye ryayspier for his shop again ; and he draws all the sale tohimself. I counsel you to g» no farther than Christ.h nd now when it is come to your door, either to sin orsuffer, I counsel jon to lay your account with suffer¬ing ; for an out-gatc coming from any other airth, willhe prejudicial to your 'soul's intere.-f. And for yourencouragement, remember he sends none a warfare ontheir own charges. And West is the man that givesChrist all his money. It wii: be best for you to blockwith him, when you want hand-monev. And the lessyou have, he has the more heart to trust you. \ nd soit is best wit?) you to keep in with your old acquaint¬ance Cfcri's. >few acquaintance with strange lords, isthe ready way to make a wound in grace’s si de, whicWwill not heal in haste ; the sore may close before I howound dry' up; for grace is a tender place, and is veryeasily distempered with thebaeksirdlrgsofour presenttime; anb if the wheels of it be once broken with sin,all the money'in the world will not make it go about,'until it be put in Christ’shand. I hope L have said moreon this matter than isneedful; fori have seen marks oftenderness deeply drawn on your carriage, the sqfestway to sluft the shower, is to hold out of God’s gate,and keep within bis doors, imhi the violence of thestorm begin to ebb which is not yet full tide. Christdeals tenderly w ith his young plants,and water# themoft, lest they go back; be painful, anu lose not life lowthe seeking. Grace, mercy and peace be with you./The E P I T 4 P If.Upon the Martyrs' Monument in the Grey-Jria’esChurch-yard in Editunirgh.Upon *he Head of t!;e Tomb there is an Effifjv ofan open Bible drawn, with these Scripture-citations,Rev. vi. 7. 10- 11. And t^n he had opened thejifthseal, / saw under the nltar the souls of them that hadbeen slain for the word of God, and for tht testi¬mony which they held, Rev. v;i. 14.Also the following Linos.H ALT passengers, tnke heed to what you sefr,This Tomb cloth shew for what some men did diejHere lies interr’d the dust of those who st*od’Gainst perjury, resisting untp blood;Adhering to the Covenants, and Laws" EstabJish'ng the same; \yhich was the causeTheir lives were sacrific’d unto the lustOf Prelatists abjur’d. Though here their dtfstLies mix’d with murderers and •ther crew,Whom justice justly did to death pursue;Tut as for these, no cause in them was foundWorthy of death, but only they were foundConstant and stedfast. zealous, witnessingFor the prerogatives of Christ their King.Which Truths were seal’d by famous Guthrje’s head,A nd all along to Mr. Ilenwick’s blood.They did endure the wrath of enemies,Reproaches, torments, deaths and injuries;But yet they’re these who from such trouble came,.And now triumph in glory with the Lamb.From May 27th, 1661, that the noble Marquis ofArgyle suffered, to Feb. 1688. that Mr. James Iten-v.ick suffered, ICO Noblemen Gentlemen, Ministersand others, were executed at Edinburgh, noble Mar¬tyrs for Jesus Christ. The most part of them ii«here. It is also said, that 28,000 suffered in the latefersecution ia Scotland.S’ J .V J s.