LILY OF ST. LEONARDSDALKEITH :PRINTED BY DAVID LYLE.JEANIE DEANS,AND THELILY OF St, LEONARD’SIn the year 173fi, during the reign of GeorgeII. Edinburgh was the scene of a remarkableriot, usually called the Porteous Mob. Muchdiscontent at this time existed among the Scots,who on account of the rebellion of 1715, inwhich they were so deeply implicated, fanciedthey were still regarded by the English Govern-ment with feelings of aversion, and malignity.The soldiery, the officers of the customs, andthe excise, were still beheld by the peopleas enemies; and on every occasion of quarrel,the populace were ready to join in acts of vio¬lence against the servants of the government.In this temper of the Scottish people the inci¬dents occurred which we are about to record. Acontraband trader of the name of Wilson, hadin combination with some others like himself,robbed the collector of custom at Kirkaldy of aconsiderable sum of money, the property of thegovernment. Wilson was brought to trial, andwith a confederate of the name of Robertson,was condemned to suffer the punishment ofdeath fi r his crime. After their condemnation,the two criminals were according to custom,allowed to attend divine worsh'p in the Tol-hooth Church, on the sabbath day, in custodyof four soldiers of the city guard. They enter¬ed the Church before the congregation werefully assembled, when Wilson, by a sudden ef¬fort of astonishing strength, grasped a soldierwith each hand, sebed another with h's teeth,and holding them inextricably fast, called tohi* comrade to run, which he did, and made hisescape. 'I here was in this action something somanly and generous as could scarcely fail to ex¬cite the sympathy of the inhabitants, who, ifbefore they thought his sentence too severe forhis crime, were now transported with warm in¬dignation, to think that such a man must die asa malefactor.The day of Wilson’s execution came quicklyon. The people awaited the hour of his beingbrought out to the scaffold in a tumult of in¬dignant and sympathetic sentiments, ready al¬most to rise in fury and rescue him by forcefrom the ministers of death. But the forceguarding the execution was sufficient to defy allattempts of rescue. W hen, however, the lifelessbody was cut down, the spirit of the mob beganto express itself by pelting the executioner andthe soldiers with diit and stones.This so incensed Borteous, captain of the city-guard, who was ashamed and angry on accountof Robertson's escape, and who had regarded thegathered mob with a gloomy and sullen spirit,which was ready to burst in o some revengefulact if but the least spark of cont nt on shouldcome to inflame it, that he ordered his nn n tofire upon the populace, tome were -la n. somewere wounded. A part of the limb with exasperated rage pressed hard upon the retiringsoldiers. Again they fired their muskets, andthere was a new slaughter of the people.The cry of bloodshed was now raised loudagainst Borteous. He wa.-> put into confinement,brought to trial, and as the riotous insults ofthe mob were not judged worthy of resistanceto blood, and he had no orders to fire upon them,he was condemned to death. The whole p oplcexulted in Bone ;us' condemnation , a..d were4expecting with ext? erne impatience the day ofhis execution.It was a short time before this event thatDavid Deans, an staunch presbyterian of the oldschool, took up his abode at St. Leonard’s. Hehad tormerly rented the small farm of Wood-end on the estate of Dumbiedikes, not far fromEdinburgh. At one time however, he hadbeen brought to the very brink of ruin, by therapacity and extortion of his landlord, and wason the eve of being turned adrift on the world,along with his neighuour widow Butler, andher orphan grandson Reuben, when by the sud¬den death of the author of their distresses, afavourable turn was given to their affairs.Deans and the widow Butler were placed insuch a situation as naturally created some inti-*macy between the families. They had shareda common danger and a mutual deliverance, andoccasions were frequently occurring where theyneeded each other’s assistance. This intercoursebecame strict and intimate, at a very early per¬iod, betwixt Reubc n Butler and .leanie Deans,the only child David Deans had by his first wife.The two children clung to each other's societynot more from habit than from taste. Theyherded together the handful of sheep, with thetwo or three cows which their parents turnedout upon the ii closed common of Dumbiedikes,and were inseparable companions in goin>>- andreturning fiom school. Beuben was decidedlythe be.T scholar in the little parish school, andsuch was the rapid advance that he made inlearning, that his grandmother yielded to hiswishes, and agreed that he should go to the uni¬versity of St. Andrew's, and there qualify h m-»elf as a minister of the church of ir cotland.•sWhile Butler was attending the un'Verdty-the Laird of i'Jumhiedikes, who had n<> tenureeither in active sports or in society, n od to en !his daily saunter by calling at the- cottage ofWoodend. On such occasions,. Duinhiedikes,beinc a man of slow id as and confused utterance, used to sit for half an hour, with an oMlace hat of his fathers on his head and an emptytobacco-pipe in his mouth with his eyes follow¬ing Jeanie, or “• the lassie” as he called her, fromone corner of the house to the other, as shewent through her daily domestic labours Itis not to he supposed, that, as a father and iman of sense, the constant direction of thelaird’s eye towards Jeanie was altogether un¬noticed by David Deans This circumstance,however, made a much deeper impression uponanother member of his fa ) ily, a second helpmate to wit, whom he had chosen to take tohis bosom ten years aTer the death of his firstwife. 'This good lady, after having been some-years married, presented Douce Davie with an¬other daughter who was named Kuphemia, bycorruption, l.ffie. t was then she began togrow impatient at the s'ow pace at whi h thelaird’s wooing proceeded. he therefore triedevery female art within the compass of lier skillto bring the Laird to a point, hut had the mortific ition to perceive that her efforts only scaredthe trout she meant to catch.Reuben in the meantime having finished hisstudies at the university, had obtained his li¬cense as a pre cher; hut this not leading o anyimmediate pre erment, he 'bund it necessary toreturn to the cottage at Beer-heha. After hav¬ing greeted his aged grandmother, his first visit6was to Woodend, where he was received byJeanie with w7arm cordiality. Their old inti¬macy was renewed, though upon a footing bet¬ter adapted to their years ; and it became atlength understood between them, that theirunion should be deferred no longer than untilButler, should obtain some steady means ofsupport, however humble.In the meantime, time did not roll on with¬out effecting its usual changes. The grandmo¬ther of Butler was gathered to her fathers, andRebecca, the careful spouse of our friend DavieDeans, was also summoned from her plans ofmatrimonial and domestic economy. Notwith¬standing the assumed fortitude of Deans, he hadtoo good a heart not to suffer deeply under hisheavy loss. Woodend became altogether dis¬tasteful to him, and he resolved on removal.The situation he chose for his new settlementwas a place called St. Leonards craigs, lyingbetween Edinburgh and Arthur’s ."eat.When Jeanie removed from the spot whereshe was bred and born, she flattered herself thatshe had seen the last of the laird; It wastherefore with more surprise than pleasure, thatnot many days after the removal to St. Leon¬ard’s, she beheld ! umbiedikes arrive, whogreeted her with his customary ejaculation—“ How’s a’ wi’ye, Jeanie, ?” “ The deil’s in thedaidling body,” muttered Jeanie between herteeth, “ wha wad hae thocht o’ his daikt ring outthis length ?” The fact wras, he had purchaseda little highland poney—Rory Bean—for theexpress purpose of enabling him to enjoy thebeatific vision of Jeanie, and his mute atten¬tions were now continued writh the same regu¬larity as formerly.JFffie Deans, under the tender and affectionate care of her sister, had nuvv shot up into abeautiful and blooming girl. She was c urrent¬ly entitled the Lily of St. Leonard s, a namewhich she deserved as much by her guileless pu¬rity 01 thought, speech, and actions as by heruncommon loveliness of face and person. V\ ithall her innocence and goodness of disposition,however, there were points in Effie’s characterthat gave ri-e to strange doubt and apprehen¬sion to her more considerate sister. Ler cha¬racter will be best illustrated by a cottage even¬ing scene.The father was absent in his well stockedbyre foddering those useful and patient animalson whose produce his living depended, the sum¬mer evening was beginning to close in, whenJeanie Deans began to Le anxious for the ap¬pearance of lur sister, and to fear that she.vould not read) home before her father return¬ed from the labour of the evening, when itwas his custom to have “family exercise” andwhen she knew that 1 ffie’s absence would givehim the most serious displeasure. Jeanie stoodat the door, with her hands before her eyes toavoid the rays of the level sun, and looked al¬ternately along the various trac ts which led to¬wards their dwelling to see if she could descrythe nymph like form of her sister There wasa wall and stile which separated the King’sPark from the public road; and directing herattention towards this point she saw two personsappear there somewhat suddenly. One of thema man drewr hastily hack as if to avoid obser¬vation ; the other, a female, advanced towardsher,—it w as Effie.“ VYhare hae ye been sae late at e’en?” said0Jeanie.—“ Nae gate,” answered EfU —“ And\vl;a was that parted wP you at the stile?”“ Naebody,” replied Fffie again. “ Nae gate”—Naeboily”—I wish it may be a right gate,and a right body that keeps folk out sae late ate'en, Effie.” “ What needs ye aye be speeringthan at fock”? retorted Effie. “I’m sure ifye’ll ask nae questions, I’ll tell ye nae lees. Inever asks what brings the Laird of Dumbie-dikes glowering here day after day like a wa!leat.”—Because ye ken very weel he comes tosee our faither, replied Jeanie.—“and Domi¬nie Butler. Does he come to see our fai herthat’s sae ta’en wi’ his Latin words ”? saidEffie, but observing the tear gather in Jeanie’seye, she suddenly flung her arms around herneck, and kissed them away. Jeanie though hurtand offended, was unable to resist the caresses ofthis untaught child of nature, and as she return¬ed the sisterly kiss in token of reconciliation,she gently said, “ I canna be muckle vexed wiony thing ye say to me, Effie, but O dinnavex our father. ” “ I will not, I will not,” re¬plied Fffie, and if there were fifty dances themorns night, I vvinna budge an inch to gang toane o’ them.” At the moment the word dancewas uttered, it reached the ear of old DavidDeans, who had turne t the corner of the house,and come upon his daughters ere they were a-ware of his presence “ Dance !” he exclaimed“ Dance ! said ye? I daur ye, limmers that yeare, to name sic a word at my door chetk ?—It’s a dissolute profane past me, and if 1 saemuckle as hear you name dancing, ye shall beno n ore charge or concern o’ m ne ?The reproof of ! avid Deans however wellmeant, was unhappily timed, as it deterred LffieF V-V.-9from l.er intended confidence in her sister.“ She wad had me nae better than the dirt be¬low her feet,” said I'.ffie to herself “ were I toconfess I hae danced wi him four times on thegre n down by. ut I’ll no gang back thereagain. I'm resolved I’ll no gang back. Andshe kept her vow - or a week, during which timehowev r she was unusually cross and fretful.There was something in all this so mysteriousas cons'n'erablv to alarm the prudent andaffectionate dearie; and when it wa> ag eed toby her father that Kffie should go to Edinburghto reside with Mr Saddletree, a distant relationof the family, and sssist in the domestic dutiesof his household, she parted with her sister witha mixed feeling of apprehension and hope. Itwas not until the first moment of their separationfor the first time in their lives that she felt thefull force of sisterly sorrow, and Jeanie took thatmoment of a fectionat esympathy, to press u|)onher sister the necessity of the utmost cautionin her conduct while residing in Ed nburghDuring the first week or two Effie was allthat her kinswoman expected. Hut ere manymonths had passed, though she seemed almostwedded to her duties she no longer dischargedthem with the laughing cheek and light stepwhich fit first had attra ted every visitor. Hermistress s > ebmes observed her in tears; butthey were signs of secret sorrow, which she con¬cealed as oft n as she saw them attract wotice.Time wore on, her cheek grew pale, and herstep heavy Neigh'our- also, a d fellow ser¬vants remark ’d with malicious curosity. thedisfigured sha e. loose dr ss, and pale dieeks ofthe o ce beautiful and still intcre-ting girl. Atlength Effie asked permission to go home for10x week or two, ass'gning indispos tion as themotive of her request. liffie was sufF red to de¬part ; and it was afterwards found that a periodof a week intervened betwixt her leaving hermaster’s house, and arriving at St. Leonard’s.She made her appearance before her sister ina state rather resembling the spectre than theliving substance of the gay and beautiful girl,who had left her fathers co.tage for the firsttime not many months before. Jeanie, terrifiedto death at her s-ster’s appearance, at first over¬whelmed her with inquiries, to which the un¬fortunate young woman returned inc herent andrambling answers, and finally fell into hysteri¬cal fits. To all questions concerning the nameor rank of her seducer, and the fate of t e beingto whom she had given birth, Lffie rema nedmute as the grave, and her sister was about torepair to Mrs Saddletree’s to obtain what lightshe could upon this unhappy affair, when shewas saved that pains by a new stroke of fatewhich seemed to carry misfortune to the utter¬most.David Deans had been alarmed at the stateof health in which his daughter had returned toher parental residence; but Jeanie had c ntrivedto divert him from making any particular en¬quiry. It was therefore like a clap of thunderto the poor old man, when the officers of justicearrived at the cottage of St Leonard’s with awarrant of justiciary to search for and apprehendEuphemia, or Lffie 1 ea"s, accused of the crimeof child-murder. The stunning weight of a blowso totally unexpected bore down the old man,who fell extended and senseless on his owmhearth ; and the officers, haj py to escape fromthe scene of his awakening, raised the ol ject of11their warrant from her bed, and placed her in acoach which they had brought with them forthat purposeThe day on which the unhappy Effie Deanswas conveyed to the Tolbooth had been anxious¬ly waited for by the populace of Edinburgh asthat on which ( aptain Porteous was expectedto sufi’er the last sentence of the law ; and theGrassn'arket, tlie common place of execution atthat permd, was filled by an immense crowd ofspectators, eager to glut their sight with a tri¬umphant revenge. The usual hour for produc¬ing the criminal had been past for some time,and the question,—wTould they dare to defraudpublic justice ? spread rapidly from one to ano¬ther. At length the news were announced, inti¬mating the royal pleasure that Captain Porteousbe respited tor six weeks from the time appoint¬ed for Ins execution. The multitude uttered agroan or rather a roar of indignation and disap¬pointment. But no disturbance took place.The scaffold and other preperations which hadbeen made for the execution were speedily re¬moved, and the multitude quietly dispersed.Matters wrere in this state when Peahen But¬ler arrived in Edinburgh with the intention ofcalling on a clerical friend for whom he had pro¬mised to officiate on the ensuing Sabbath. Ashe was returning up the High Street, in thedusk of the evening, he met Mr Saddletree, whocommunicated to him the astounding intelli¬gence of Effie's imprisonment; and having rea¬sons much deeper than those dictated by merehumanity for interesting himself in the fate ofJeanie Deans’ sister, he immediately set of inquest of a friend of his connected with the law,of whom he wished to make more particular in-12quiries cone rning the situation of the unfortunate young woman. 'I he person lie sought,however, being absent from home, he determinedto proceed homewards, and to defer his furtherinquiries till next daybutler had scarcely cleared the city walls, andentered the suburb named bortsburgh, when heheard die sound of a drum, and to his great sur¬prise met a number of persons moving rapidlytowards the town, with the drummer in frontbeating to arms. V\ bile he considered how heshould avoid the partv, they came full on him,stopped him, and inquired if he was a clergyman.Butler answered in the affirmative ; on whichthey told him in a peremptory manner, that hemust go along with them He begged to knowfor what purpose; but ihe on y reply to hisquestion was. that he should know in all goodtime, that no injury was inten ed him. and thatgo he mu t, either by force or fair means Be-sistance and lemon? ranee were a ike in vain,and be was hunied on in front of t: e rioters,wh ' passed at a quick pace through the (irass-mar' et. and thence down the street named theCowgate the mob of the city every where risingat the sound < f the drum and joining them.Here they d vided themselves, so as to ascendwith m re spe d the various narrow' lares whichlead up from the Cowgate. and. still beating toarms as they went, and calling on all tiu- Scot-men to join i hem, they marched boldly up theHigh Street, shouting 1’orteous! Porteou* ! Tothe Tol ooth! On approaching the gua d-house, the sentinel presented his piece ; hut hew'as instantly knock d down by a person in fe¬male disguise, who had from the first taken anactive share in the proceedings, and who answer-ed animijj liis cotrijianloMs t: she name of Wild¬fire. The mob limn possesse themselves ol tlieguard house, and having distil,' uted the armsamong the I oldest ol the rioters, pn ceeded tothe Tolboo It Strong detachments were tlienjdaeed as guards to prevent interruption, whilea select paitv tic ndeieb at tlie door of tin jailand demanded admission No one answered,for the keeper had prudently made his escapewith the keys and a- nowhere to he found.’1 he floor, which was ot great strength, was thenassailed wit1 sledge hammers, and other instru¬ments wh ch had heen i rovided for the occasion,but all their efforts were in vain. At lengthsome one called out to try it with fire ; and twoor three t r bands having heen piocured, ahuge glaring bonfire speedily arose close to themassy portal The flames roared and crack ed,a terride shout soon announced that the doorwas destroyed, and the rioters rushed impatient¬ly on after another over its yet smoulder ngremains.Torteous was now dragged from his place ofconcealment in the chimney with a violence thatj seemed to argue an intention to put him to deat hJ on the spot. Mor than one weapon was direct¬ed towards him, when W ildfire, the individualin female attire, called out in an authoritativelone, “Hold ! The murderer must die on thecommon gi bet, on the spot where he shed somuch innocent blood !” A loud shout of ap¬plause followed the proposal, and the cry, “ Tothe gallons with the murderer !'’ echoed on allsidesThe mob had now led forth their destinedvictim, and were about to conduct him to theplace of execution, when Butler was brought14forward, and commanded to prepare the prls n*er for immediate death. His answer was a sun-plication that they would show mercy to the un¬happy man, and not rush into the ver^ crimethey were desirous of avenging. But he wastold to cut his sermon short, to take his placeby the side of Porteous, and help him to makehis peace with God. With a faltering voiceButler endeavoured to comply with their com¬mands, while the procession moved on with aslow and determined pate, lighted up by theblaze of innumerable torches. At length theyreadied the Grassmarket, and having erected adyer’s pole on which to execute the object of theirvengeance, he was hurried to his fate with re¬morseless rapidity. Butler, separated from himby the press, escaped the lasthorrors of his strug¬gles, and unnoticed by those who had hithertodeta ned him, fled from the fatal spot.When Butler found himself be/ond the City-vvall, his first purpose was to return homeward ;but the news he had heard on that eventfull dayinduced him to linger in the neigh! ourhead ofEdinburgh till morning. He then ascended thewild p ith which winds around the base of therocks call d Salisbury Crags, that he might com¬pose his own spirits and while away the timeuntil a proper hour for visiting the family atSt. Leonard's. He had proceeded but a shortway through this sequestered dell, when he per¬ceived a man skulking among the scattered rocksat some distance from the footpath. Duelswere then very common in Scotland ; and asthis place was the favourite resort of the younggallants of the lime for settling their affairs ofhonour, it occured to Butler that this personhad come hither for some such purpose, and that15H was his duty as a m nister of the gospel to en¬deavour to prevent the fatal c onsequences whichtoo often attended such encounters He there¬fore qui t d the ordinary track, and advancedtowards the stranger, who on his part appearedanxious to avoid ohservat on hy retiring nearerthe hill ; hut seeing that Butler seemed dispos¬ed to follow him. lie adjusted his hat fiercely,turned round, and came ftrward as if to defyscrutiny.“A fine morning, sir,” said Butler; “youare on the hill early.”—“ I have lu iness here,”said the yt ung man, in a tone meant to repressfurther inquiry. “ 1 do not doubt it, sir,” re¬plied Butler. “I trust you will forgive myhoping that it is of a lawful kind.”—“ Sir,” saidthe other, “ I cannot conceive what title youhave to hope any thing about what no way con¬cerns you.”—“I suspect,"’ continued Butler,“ that you are about to violate one of your coun¬try s wisest laws, and, which is more dreadful,to violate the law of God which says, ‘ Thoushall do no murder;—to place yourself in th-*awful situation where your only alternative isto kill or to be killed ”—“ Your meaning, I daresay, is excellent,” said the stranger ; “ but I amnot here for the purpose ot taking away life, hutif possible of saving it. If you wish to do a goodaction, I shall give you an opportunity. Gotoyonder cottage which you see over the crag tothe right, and inquire for one Jeanie Deans; sayto her that he she knows of waited here till now'expecting to see her, and that he can abide nolonger. Tell her that she must meet me to¬night at Muschats Cairn, when ihe moon risesbehind St. Anthony s Hill, or she will make adesperate man of me.’’ Without waiting for areply, tlie stranger t sen walked off at a ripidpace, leavin •; utler most un leasantly surpris¬ed at Ids morning s adventure 'i'hoiij>li not na¬turally of’a jealous disposition, it appeared inex¬plicable to him what the object of his early a lec¬tion could have so suv to the person who hadjust parted from him, at a place so improper andan hour s > unseasonable. Kxhausted with fa¬tigue, and harassed with douht and anxiely, hedragged himsel uothe ascent to St. Leonard’s,a id appeared at the do >r of Deans’ hahitationwith feeling much akin to those of its miser-ahle inhabitants. The old man was seated bythe fire, with his well worn Hible on hi' knee,and as lie extended his hand, Butler clasped itin his, wept over it, and in vain endeavoured tosay more than “God comfort you!” Jeaniewas unable to trust herself with more than oneglance towards her lover, whom she now metunder circumstances so agonizing to her feelings,and she left the apartment as if in the prosecu¬tion of xome part of her morning labour. In ashort time i’utler followed her, anxious to as¬certain bow far the young gallant lie had seenwas entitled to press a request which no prudentwoman he imagined was likely to comply with.He found leanie ittinsr in the corner of an out-house, silent, dej ( ted, and ready to hur t intofears. ‘ I am glad you ha e'-ome, Mr butler,said site, f >r 1 wished to tell you that all maunlie ended between you and me—it s best forbaith our sikes. 'sever. Reub n. shall I bringdisgra e liame to ony man’s hearth.”—“And isthere nothi g hut a sense of your sisters misfor¬tune, inquired Butler in a fd'ering voice, thatoccasions you to talk in this manner?”—“ " hatelse could do sae ?” she replied with simplicity.rl'7“ I am charged with a message to you, said he,from a young man whom I met this morningin the park ; he said that, as you did not comeat the hour he expected, you must meet him to¬night at Muschat s Cairn as the moon rises.May I ask who or what this person is P”—“ I donot know, said Jeanie ; yet I must give him themeeting he a-ks—there's life and death upon it.”—“ And will you not tell your father, or allowme to go with you ?”—‘* It is impossible, she re¬plied; there manna be mortal ear within hearingof our conference.Here they were interrupted by the arrival ofMr Saddletree, who bad come to consult aboutthe employment of counsel on Elbe’s behalf.From him they learned that on her examinationshe had con ties ed having given birth to a child,but solemnly denied any knowled-e of its fate,or that she had any hand in taking away thelife of the innocent, being that site had broughtinto the world. The woman in whose houseshe had been confined had carried away the in¬fant soon after it was born, and had not beenheard (if since. It was therefore the opinion ofthe lawyers whom Mr Saddletree had consultedthat I- the would be found guilty, unless it couldbe proved on her trial that she had communica¬ted her situation to some one previous to thebirth of the rnfant. Little was to be expectedfrom the clemency of Efbe’s judges, and everything to be dieaded from the severuy of thestatute under which she would be tried. Itoccurred howev. r (o butler, that if he couldi obtain admittance to her in the jail, he mightperhaps su ceed in gaining such information asf would lead either to the discovery < f her seduceror of the person who had attended her during18her illness. With this viewhe took a hasty leaveof the family at St. Leonard's ; and forgettingfatigue and want of refreshment in his anxietyto assist the sister of Jeanie Deans, he soon stoodbefore the entrance to the Tolbooth. On askingpermission to see Effie Deans, a warrant for hisapprehension was produced, followed by hiscommittal to the jail. He was soon afterwardscalled before a magistrate, and examined as tothe part he had acted in the Porteous Riot, towhom he gave a minute account of all that hadpassed, not even omitting his interview with thestranger in the valley. His examiner seemedanxious to obtain information about this person,and asked if he thought that Jeanie Deanswould attend the meeting. Hutler replied thathe was afraid she would, and that he was appre¬hensive of the consequences. The magistrateassured him that her safety would be providedfor. He regretted that at present it was notinhis power to set Butler at liberty, but assuredhim that his detention would be as short as pos¬sible, and that his proper accommodation wouldwould be attended to.As evening wore on Jeanie Deans began toprepare for her assignation ; and a little beforemidnight, with a trembling heart, she set outfor Muschafs ( airn. It was situated in the val¬ley behind Salisburgh ('rags not far from St.Anthony's Chapel, and wa- composed of thestones which p issengers had thrown on the spot,in testimony of abhorence of the wretch NicolMuschut, who had here murdered his wife undercircumstances of uncommon bar arity. As sheapproached the unhallowed spot she stopped audlooked around; when suddenly a figure rose frombehind the pile, and in a hollow voice inquiredIDif she was the sister of Effie Deans. “ I am, ex-cluimtid Jcanie ; and I beseech you to tell mewhat can be done to save her.” She>c^n only besaved, said the stranger, by your aCung accord¬ing to my directions. Effie is innocent of thecrime laid to her charge; and, when called onas a witness on her tiial, you have but to saythat she made you aware of her condition, andthe law loses its power.”—“ Alas ! said Jeanie,she never spoke to me on the subject. I wadware the best blood in my body ior her, but Icanna swear to an untruth.” “You shall swear!thundered the ruffian, presenting a pistol as hespoke ; when suddenly seizing her arm, and mut¬tering, Your sister's life is in your hands,” hedarted off into the surrounding gloom, and w assoon lost to her sight. Almost at the same in¬stant four men rushed passed her in the directionwhicli the fugitive had taken ; and Jeanie terri¬fied beyond expression, hastened from the fatalspot, and took the nearest road homeward,never once slackening her pac e until she was safeb.neath her father's roofThe person whom Jeanie met at the cairn,and who appeared so interested in the fate ofher sister, was George Staunton, the son of awealthy English gentleman, w ho had bestowedon him a liberal education. Instead of profit¬ing, however, by these advantages, he gave him,self up to a course of ruinous dissipation ; andhaving quarrelled with his father, he left hishome, and retired to Scotland under the nameof Robertson. While at Edinburgh he met withEffie Deans, who in a short time fell a sacrificeto his seduction ; and although his love for theEily of St. Leonard s was sincere, the ill-fatedenterprise in which he had engaged rendered it20impossible for him to do justice to the unfortu iJnate girl. Robertson escaped the gallows in theremarkable manner already mentioned ; and, tt 1revenge the death of Wilson, he assumed a fe imale disguise, and took an active share in the Iriot by which Porteous lost his life. From But nlers information it had been suspected that Ro :bertson was the person who was to meet Jeanie jiDeans at Muschat's Cairn, and he narrowly es- |caped from the officers sent by the magistrate 11for his apprehension.We now return to Jeanie Deans, who hadbeen cited as a witness on behalf of her sister, iOn the day of trial she acknowledged that the |prisoner had never said any thing to heron thesubject of the expected birth of her child ; andaccordingly F.ffie was found guilty and con¬demned to be executed. But althou ;h Jeaniecould not be prevailed on to swear to an untruth,even to save the life of one so dear to her, stillshe d d not despair of being able to avert herimpending doom. Convinced of F.fte’s inno¬cence, she firmed the romantic resolution oftravelling on foot to London, and begging a par¬don from the kingAt an early hour on the morning after Effie'strial Jeanie packed up her ittle wardrobe, andset out on the road It was necessary, however,for many reasons that she should see utler; andaccordingly she struck of thedirec road, tak¬ing that which passed through Linberton.Jeanie recollected that Reuben was in [jo-ses¬sion of a document which might be of essentialservice to her in London. Butler s grandfather,while serving in Monk's regiment of dragoons,had on one occasion saved the life < t ' rgyle ;and that unfortunate nobleman, unable at that21time (o reward l)i> preserver, pave him a paper,in whit h the du; eV re'atit ns or descendantswere urgently requested, if t ver ai. opj 01 trinityoft'ered to repay the obligation, butler usedevery argument in his power to dissuade herfrom her undertaking, but .leanie vas not tobe diverted trom her purpose; and 1 utler at la; tconsented to dcli'er to her tl e j aper by meansof which she hoped to procure the interest otthe Duke of Argyle.It would be useless to follow our heroinethrough all her journeyings. hoffice it to saythat she reached 1 ondon in about a fortnightand procured an au< ience of the 1 uke of Ar'gyle, who received her with that kindness andaffability for which he was so distinguished.She told h m that she was the sister of that un¬fortunate ciiminal, 1 ffie Deans, who had be< ncondemned to death at Edinburgh, and that shehad con e up from the north to see what couldbe done in the w ay of getting a pardon for her.“Young woman, said the duke, you supposeme to have influence which I do not j ossess.I have no means of averting your sister’s fate.And you know that it is the law of both Godand man that the murderer shall die.'1—“ butmy puir sister canna be proved to be a murder¬er, sir, as you will see by these papers.” HereJeanie presented a coj y ot the evidence and hersister’s declaration, which butler had procuredand transmitted to London. “And here’s a linefrae your ain grandsire, o’ blessed memory, shecontinued, that maybe will gang farther thanony thing 1 can say.” “ ri his is my unfortu¬nate gi andfather’s hand, sure enough, said theduke, and a strong injunction indeed, biit down,my go< d girl, till I glat ce over these paj ers.”22After reading them hastily over,—“your sis¬ter’s case is certainly a very har ! one, said he ;leave these papers with me, and you shall hearfrom me to-morrow or next day. Don't be outof the way when I send, or hope too much fromwhat 1 may he able to accomplish. God hasthe heart of kings in his own bands.” Jeaniethen curtsied reverently and withdrew.On the second day after Jennie's interviewwith Argyle, the duke’s confidential servantcame for her in a hackney coach, and broughther to where the duke was waiting to receiveher. “ I see you have been punctual, Jeanie,said he, as a servant assisted her into the car¬riage; you must be my companion for the restof the wav, and Mr Archibald will remain herewith the coach until you return,’’ They proceeded at a rapid rate through a delightful coun¬try, and alter a pretty long drive the carriagsstopped, and they found themselves in an ave¬nue lined with lofty trees, at the end of whicha number of beautiful garden-walks branchedoff in different directions. In one of these theyperceived a lady, richly dressed and of a nobleand commanding appearence, advancing to meet 'them, The duke desired Jeanie to stand still,Iand stepping forward himself, made a profound |ohesiance, which was returned in a dignifiedmanner by the personage whom he approached.After conversing together for some time, theduke made a signal for Jeanie to advance ; andthe lady, addressing her in a kindly tone, in- ■quired bow she had travelled up from Scotland.“ Upon my feet mostly, madam,” answeredJeanie. “ I thought I was a good walker, said !the lady, but this shames me sadly.”—“ I wishthat your leddyship may never hae sae wea'"' *heart that ye eanna he sensible o' the wearinesso’ the limbs,” said Jeanie.—“ But supposingthat the king were to pardon your sister, I fearthat the people of Edinburgh would hang herout of spite, if we may judge by their conducton a late occas'on.’’—“ I am sure, answeredJeanie, that baith town and country would re¬joice to see the royal mercy extended to a poorunfriended creature. And O, madam, 1 beseechyou to have compassion on our misery. Aword of the k ng s mouth might save an unhap¬py girl, not eighteen years of age yet, from anearly and dreadful death, and restore her to abroken hearted auld man, that never in his mor¬ning and evening prayers forgot to petition fora blessing on his majesty.”—“ Young woman,said the lady, I cannot pardon your sister; but ‘you shall not want my warm intercession withhis majesty 'l ake this house wife case ; in ityou will find something which will r mind youthat you have had an interview with QueenCaroline.” Jeanie dropt on her knees, but wasso bewildered that she was unable to utter aword ; and the queen, turning to Argyle, andexpressing a hope that their business had terminated to his satisfaction, wished him a goodmorning.The duke having assisted Jeanie from theground, conducted her back through the avenueto the place where they had entered the garden.W hen seated in the carriage, he congratulatedhis countrywoman on the successful terminationof her interview with the queen, and assuredher of the certainty of Effie's pardon, which hepromised to get passed through the requisiteforms, and transmitted to Scotland. Then fol¬lowed an examination of her majesty's present.Resides the usual a companfluents nf a la ly’sneedle-book, it co .tained a note for fifty poundsand the queen's name written with her ownhand. Having arrived at the turn ike road,the duke took letv of Jeanie, promising tosend her notice when her business was settled.In a few days Jeanie received the welcomeintelligence, and soon after took her departurefor Scotland in one of the duke s carriage , whichhe was sending to his seat at inverary. Onthe liberation of Kffie. she returned to her tath -rat St Leonard's, and busily engaged herself ininquiries about the fate of her child, which at•last proved successful. Some time afterwards,she was privately married to Staunton, and re¬tired to England with her husband. A recon¬ciliation with his father was soon elected ; hebecame an altered man, and endeavoured toatone for the errors of his past life by a thoroughreformation Jeanie also was united to the ob¬ject of her long and steady attachment, and un¬der the happiest circumstances. The !)u e ofArgyle had inquired into Butler’s character andcirumstances, and being satisfied as to his learn¬ing and abilities, presented him to a comfortableliving in Argyleshire. David Deans was ap¬pointed to manage one of the duke’s farms, atsuch a distance from the m anse as allowed ofdaily intercourse, in the tranquil enjoyment ofwhich he spent the remainder of his days.Happy in each other, and in the prosperity of arising family, the simple pair lived long, re¬spected and lieloved by all who knew fticm.FINIS.