T II E>Scots Pipers Queries:o R,John Falkirk’s Cariches,TO WHICH ARE ADDED,His Comical and Witty Jokes,When in Courtfnip with an old Fidler's Wi¬dow, who wanted all the Teeth. Withthe Copy of the Love-letter he lent untoher who is commonly called F—ting Betty.Old John Piper if y0ll defire'To read at Uifure by the fire :Twill pteafe the bairns and keep them laughing,j ^d mind the Auld Goodwife o’ her Jajf.ng.CONCLUDING WITHvhe QUAKER and CLOWN, a Vtrcn~derful Tale.GLASGOW, 'PRINTED BY J. & M. ROBERTSON,SALTMARKET, iSoo.p ratJ2( 2 )This Catechifm deferves no Creed,It’s only for Boys, who will not readOn wifer books, them to indrudl:Let droll John their fancy cook.The Scots Piper’s Queries, &c.CL ITTrTHAT is the wife ft behaviour ©fYV ignorant perfons ?A. To Ipeak of nothing but what theyknow, and to give their opinion of nothingbut what they undefftand.<T What time is a fcolding wife at thebeft ?A. When Hie is fail alleep.What time is a fcolding wife at theworlt ?A. When the is that wicked as to tear thehair out of her own head, when ftie can’!rv£t her neighbours, and through penecCute bites Iter own tongue with her owlteeth *, my hearty wifh is, that all fuch wick, ed vipers may ever do lb. ,r Qf What is the effectual cure and infalh1 ble, remedy for a fcolding wife ?A. The only care is to get out of the heai,xng of her, but the infallible remedy is tnail her tongue to a growing tree, in the b.gilding of a cold winter night, aad fo .ei31The Scots Piper's Queries. zftand till fun-rifing next morning, fte’II be¬come one of the peaceableft women that e-ver lay by a man’s fide.What time of the year is it that thereare moil holes open?A. In harveit when there are bubbles.At whar time is the cow heaviefl ?A. When the bull is on her back.Who was the goodman’s muckle cow’scalf’s mother ?A. None but the muckle cow herfeif.Ch What is the likefl thing to a man anda horfe ?A. A taylor and a mare.Ch What is the hardeft dinner that ever ataylor laid his teeth to ?A. His own goofe, though ever fo wellboii’d or roafted.Ch How many tod’s tails will it tak toreach up to the moon ?A. One if it be long enough.O^IIow many flicks gangs to the biggingof a craw’s nefi ?A. None, for they are all carried.How many whites will a well madepudding prick need ?A. If it be well made it needs no more.O. Who was the father of Zebedee’s chil-dren ?A. Who but himfelf.. ^v'r^ere did Mofes go when he was fuHf-fifteen years old ?A. Into his fixteenth.4 The Scots Piper s Queries.Q^How near related is your aunty’s good-brother to you ?A. No nearer than my own father.Cb How many holes are in a hen’s doup ?A. Two.(T How prove you that ?A. There is one for the dung, and ano¬ther for the egg.Q. Who is the bell for catching of rogues ?"A. None fo fit as a rogue himfelf.Q Where was the ufefulelt fair in Scot¬land kept ?A. r\t Millguy.What fort of commodities were foldthere ?A. Nothing but ale and ill wicked wives.Cb How was it abolifhed ?A. Becaufe thofe who went to it oncewould go to it no more.Cb For what reafon ?A. Becaufe there was no money to be gotfor them, but fair barter,,wife for wife, andhe who put away a wife for one fault, got awife with two as bad.Q. What was the reafon that in thofe days,a man could put away his wife for pilling thebed, and not for fli g it ?A. Becaufe he could "finite it away withhis foot and ly down.Q. \ Vhat is the reafon now a-days, thatmen court, caft, marry, and re-marry fomany waves, and keep only but one in pub¬lic at lafti , .'JThe Scots Piper's Queries. ■< 5A Becaufe private marriage is become ascommon as fmuggling, and cuckolding thekirk no more thought of, than a man to ridea mile or two upon bis neighbour’s mare! 1men get will and wale of wives, the belt por¬tion, and propereft perfon is preferred, thehrft left, the weak to the word, and {hewhom he does not love, he fhutes away withhis foot and lies down v ith whom he pleafes.O. How will ye know the bairns of ourtown, by all others in the kingdom?A. By their ill breeding, and bad man¬ners.What is their behaviour ?A. If you afk them a queftion in civility,if it were but the road to the next town,they’ll tell you to follow your nofe, and ifye go wrong curfe t}ie guide.Are young and old of them no better ?A. All the odds lies in the difference, forif you afk a child to whom he belongs, orwho is his father, he’ll tell you to kifs hisfather’s a .Q. What fort of creatures is kindliefi;when they meet ?A. None can exceed the kindnefs of dogswhen they meet in a market.Cb And what is Collie’s conduft there?A. bird they kifs other’s mouths and nof-es, fmell ail about, and 1 aft of all they arefo kind as to kifs other below the tail.What is the coldeft part of a' deg lA. His nofe. ,6 The Sects Piper s Queries."What is the coldefl part of a man ?ii. His knees.What is fhecoldeft part of a woman?A. The back part of her body.Ch_ What is the realon, that thefe threeparts of men, women, and dogs are coldeft?A Fabulous Indorians fay, that there wasthree little holes broke in Noah’s ark, andthat the dog ftopt his nofe in one, and ano¬ther the man put his knee in it, a third andbiggeft hole broke, and the woman bang’dher backfide into it; and thefe parts beingexpofed to the cold blafr, make them alwayscold ever ft ne’e.(X And what remedy does the man takefor the warming of his cold knees ?A. FIs, holds them towards the fire, andwhen i£ hsd draw's his Hurt down over them.CX And what does the women do to warmtheir cold parts ?, A. The married women turn their back¬fide about to the good-man’s belly : virgins,and thofe going mad for marriage, the heatof their maidenhead keeps them warm, oldmatrons, whirl’d o’er maidens, widows,and widows bewitch’d, hold up their coldeftparts to the fire.CX And what remedy does the poor dogtake for his cold nofe ?A. Stops it below his t ciil9 the hotted: bitin his body.CX What is the reafon the dogs are worfeon chapmen, than on other ftrange people ?The Scots Piper's ^uet'ies. 7A. It is foie! the dogs have three acctifa-tidr.s againft the chapmen; handed downfrom father to fon, or from one generationof dogs to another: The fird is as old asiSlop the great wit of Babylon, the doghaving a law-fuit againft the cat, gained theplea, and corning trudging home with thedecreet below his tail, a wicked chapmanthrowing his elwan at him, he lote it fa’,and fo loft Ins great priviiedes thereby.T he fecond is, becaufe in old times the chap¬men ufed to buy dogs and kill them for thdrfkins. The third, when a chapman wasquartered in a farmer’s houfe, that night thedog loft his property the licking of the pot.Cb What creature refembles moft a drunk¬en piper ?A. A cat when ftie ftps milk ; ftie alwaysfxngs, and fo does a piper when he drinksgood ale.Cb What is the reafon a dog runs twiceround about before he ly down ?A. Becaufe he does not know the head ofhis bed from the foot of it.What creature refembles meft a longlean, ill looking, greafy fac’d lady, for pride?A. None fo much as the cat, who is con¬tinually fpitting in her lufe and rubbing herface, as many of luch ladies do the brownleather of their wrinkled chafts.Cb Amongft what fort of creatures willyou obferve moft of a natural law ?A. The hart and the hind meet at one8 The Scots Piper’s Queries.certain day in the year; the broad goofelays her fiiil egg on Fafcerns Even, oid ilile;the crows begin to buiid their nefi the firfi; ^cf March old ftile ; the fwans obferve ma- :trimony, and if the female die, the maledares not take tip with another, or the reltwill put him to death ; all the birds in gen- ;eral, 'join in pairs, and keep fo ; but thedove refembles the adulterer, when the die- jones turns old, he pays her away, and takes !another ; the locufts obferve military or¬der, and march in bands ; the froes retVm- ;ble pipers and preachers, for thfc young ridethe old to death.Cb Who are the merriefl and heartiefl .people in the world ?A. The failors, for they’ll be nnging andcurling one another, when the waves theirgraves, are going over their heads.Q. Which are the diforderliefl creatures \in battle?A. Cows and dogs, for they all fall upon ithem that are neathmoft.Cb Who are the vainefl fort of people in \the world ?A. A barber, a taylor, a young foldier,and a poor dominie.Cb What is the great caufe of the barber’svanity ?A. His being admitted to trim noblemen’schafts, thyke their fculls, tak. kings by thenofe, and hold a razor to his very threat,which no fubjecl elfe dare do.The Scots Piper's Queries. $CK What is the great caufeof the taylor’spride ?A. His making of people’s new clothes,of which every perfoa young and old isproud of, then who can .vyalk in a vainerJhew than a taylor carrying home a gentle¬man’s clothes.What is the caufe of a young foldier'spride ?A. When he lifts, he thinks he rs free ofhis mother’s correction, the hard ufage of abad mafter, has a liberty to curfe, fwear,whore, and do every thing; until he be con¬vinced by four halberts and the drummer’swhip, that he has now got both a militaryand civil law above his head, and perhapsw'orfe mailers than ever.What is the caufe of the poor domi¬nie’s pride ?A. As he is the teacher of the young andignorant, he fuppofes no man knows whathe knows; the boys call him mailer, there¬fore he thinks himfelf a great man.What fort of a fong is it, that is fungwithout a tongue, and its notes are under-Hood by people of all nations ?A. It is a fart, which every perfon knowsto be but wind.What is the reafon that young peopleare vain, giddy-headed and airy, and not fohumble as the children of former years ?A. Becaufe they are brought up and edu¬cate after a more haughty llrain, by readingto The Scots Piper’j Queries.fablss, plays, novels and romances; gofpel-books, fuch as the pfalm-book, proverbs,and catechifms, are like old almanacks; no¬thing in vogue, but fiddle, flute, troy, andBabyloniih tunes; our plain Engiifh fpeechcorrupted with bea-uifh cants, don’t, won’t,nen, and ken, a jargon wotfe than theYorkshire dialed.(X Why is fwearing become fo commonamongfl the Scots people ?A. Becaufe fo many lofty teachers comefrom the fouth amongit us, where fwearingis pra&ifed in its true grammatical perfec¬tion, hot oaths new flruck with as bright alull re as a new quarter guinea.(X How will you know the bones of amafon’s mare at the back of a dyke, amongftthe bones of a hundred dead horfes ?A. Becaufe it is made of wood.CX Which are the two things not to befpared, and not to be abufed ?A. A foldier’s coat, and a hired horfe.THE END OF JOHN FALKIRK’S CARICHES.The Comic el and Witty yokes of JOHN FAL¬KIRK the MERRY PIPER.AN old gentleman and his two fons, be- |mg in a company, his eldefi; fon fit¬ting next to him, fpoke a word which high¬ly difpleafed his father: for which his fathergave him a hearty blow on the fide of theyohn'Falkirk's Witty yokes. s thand to ih-ike my parents, but he gives hisother brother that fat by him, a blow on theear, faying, give that about by the way ofa drink, till it comes to my father again.A failor being travelling between Edin¬burgh and Linlithgow, which is twelve longcomputed miles; and as he was fetting outin the morning about eight o'clock, he fawa vain-like young fpark go running pad him,which he never minded, but kept joggingon at his own leifure: and as he was goinginto Linlithgow, about twelve o’clock, upcomes the young fpark, and aiked the failorwhat o’clock it was, why fays the failor, Ifee you have a watch and I have none, whatis it ? out he pulls his watch, ho! faid he,it’s direSly twelve, and what do yomthink,it was half an hour after ten or I came outof Edinburgh, 1 have walked it in an hourand an half; it is pretty well tript, fays thefailor, but pray fir, what man pf bufinelsare you ? O ! faid he, 1 am a watch-maker,I was thinking,fo, faid the failor, for youhave made your watch to anfwer your feet,for thefe feet cannot anfwer a right watch,and I fuppofe your tongue can’t keep timewith either of them, do you remember whereyou went pad me this morning about eighto’clock ? O yes, faid he, and off he went.A certain old reverend pried, being onenight at fupper in a gentleman’s houfe; andfor one article having eggs, the ferver of thetable, as ufual laid a cloth on every one’s12 john Falkirk's Witty yokes '.knee, wherewith to hold their egg in whenhot, when fupper was over; the pried look¬ed down between his legs, and feeing thewhite cloth, thought it was his own Hurttail; and very flyly flaps it into his breech¬es, bit and bit, which the lady and her maidobferved, but was afhamed to challenge him,fo home he went with the lervet in his breech¬es, and knew nothing of it till going to bed,when it fell from him:-his wife enquiredhow he came by it, he could n tell, butwas furprifed how he came to have morebulk in his breeches than formerly, but per¬ceiving the name they feat it back again, theprieii pleaded to be excufed, owned himfelfonly a thief through ignorance.As two maids were coming from the milk¬ing of their cows, one of them depping o- •ver a dile, fell and fpilied the whole paii-fullof milk from her head. O faid die, what ,will I do, what will I do, O faid the othermaid, let it go, who can help it now, youcan’t make it up again, it is not your maid- ■en-head: my maiden-head, faid die, if it *were my maiden-head, I would think no¬thing of it, many many a time, I have lodmy maiden-head ■with great plealure and Igot it ay again, it came back ay to its ainplace again, but I’ll never gather up my milkagain.A great drover who frequented a publicinn in the north of England as he palled and ■repalfed, agreed with the fervant maid ofychn Falkirk’s Witty yokes* 13he houfe, for a touch of love; for which he^ave her a fix and thirty-ftiilling piece: Onhe next morning he mounted his horfe,vithout afking a bill, or what was to pay ;>ut fir, laid the landlord, you forgot to payrour reckoning: well minded, fir, faid he,' want my change, I gave your maid a fixmd thirty to change, the poor maid is cal-ed on in all hade, yes faid Ihe I got it, butt was not for that, throws it down and offhe goes : her miftrefs underflood, and gaveier the challenge, fhe told her it was fo, buthe fhould be up with him j fo in twelvenonths thereafter, he came pail with hisirove, puts u* at the fame inn as formerly;hen the girl goes to a neighbour woman,who had a young child about three monthsold, comes into tne company where he was,lays it down on the table, faying, fir, there’sthe change of your fix and thirty; and a-way fhe comes, the child cries, and the bell’srung, the landlord was ready enough to an-fwer. O fir, faid he, call her back, for thiswill ruin my family, and crack my credit;but fir faid the girl, you thought nothing toiruin my character, and crack my maiden¬head ; peace, peace, faid he, my dear, here’sone hundred and fifty pound, and take a-way the child and trouble me no more ; ’wellpaid fire i’ll take it, and you will make morejof buying cows than maiden-heads ; fo awayIfne came with the money, and returned the(borrowed child to its own mother.14 John Falkirk s llitiy jokes*Three merry companions having met 02a Saturday night at an ale-houfe, (a hattera Ihoe-maker, and a taylor,) where the;drank heartily all that night, and to-morrow until mid-day: and their beats werewho had the lovingefl wife : So they agreecfor a trial of their good-nature, that everjman (houid do whatever his wife bade hiirdo, as foon as ever he went home: or whcdid not as die ordered him, was to pay allthe reckoning, which was feven and fix*pence; or if all of them did as their wivesbade them, then they were to pay all alike;So on this agreement they all came away,firll to the hatter’s houfe, a?d in he goeslike a madman, dancing and jumping roundthe floor, his wife at the very time was tak¬ing off the pot and fetting it on the floor,he fall dancing about, now fays the wifeding ever the pot with thy madnefs, fo he*gives it a kick and over it went, and thatlaved him, as he had done what his wife badehim do. Then away they go the taylor’shoufe, and he goes dancing likewife, buthis wife fell a fcolding him : O fays he, riiydear give me a kifs? kifs my arfe, you drunk¬en rogue, faid fhe; then to her he dies andwhips her over to the bed, up with her pet¬ticoats and kiiles her arfe before them all,and that faved him; then away they wentto the fhoemaker’s, and in he goes very mer¬ry, and dancing about as he faw the othertwo do; faying, come my dear heart andJohn Valkirk's Witty Jokes* i $Se me a kifs ? go hang yourfelf you drunk-dog faid (he; fo he muft either go andig himfelf dire&ly, or pay all the reck¬ing-An honeft highlandman not long fmce,t mach acquainted with the law, fell outth one of his neighbours, and to the lawey went; he employed one advocate, ands oppofite another, and as they were de¬nting it in court before the judges, > theghlandman being there preient, a friendi his fide, afked" him how he thought, itpuld go, or who would gain rhe day ; in-eed fays the highlandman, his law-man>eaks well, and my law-man fpeaks well,think wTe’ll both win, and the judges will>fe, for they fpeak but a word now andhen.A young woman by the old accident hav-ng got hevfelf with child, was called to theefTion for fo doing, and after one elder an->ther, examining her how fhe got it, andvhere (he got it, and what tempted her toret it; and no doubt the deel wad get heror the getting it: lafl of all the nunitter heell a enquiring how fhe got it, which run:he poor lafs out of all patience about thegetting of it, fays the pried, tell me plain¬ly where it was gotten ? I tell you, faid {he,:hat it was gotten in the byre, at a cow'sflake, and what other place do you want tolien about ? but faid he, he did not tie youito the cow’s flakeno faid fhe, 1 dill noti6 "jchn Falkirk9s Witty yokes,need any tying, and how far was betwevthe byre and the houfe ? juft but and betup and down two ftaps of a ftanc ftair, thij'fays the prieft, why did you not cry to tilfolks in the houfe? Indeed fir, faid fhe,could not get crying for laughing at it.An old foldier being on a furlough fro»the north of Scotland, having got no brealfaft, fell- very .hungry by the way, and calehoufe being near, came into a farmerhoufe, and deiired they would fell him fombread, or any kind of victuals; - to whicithe furly goodv/ife reply'd, ihe never fold any bread, and fhe was not going to begi.:with him, he had but three miles and a bit!tock to an ale*houfe, and he might marcllon, and file did fair enough when Ihe giei*bits of bread for naething to beggars, thojfne gied nane to idle fodgers, he had naethingjto do there awa’: Hout faid the good man]gi’ him a ladle fu’ o’ our kail, he’s been ay'fomebody s bairn before he was a fodger:]What! faid Ihe, there’s not a drop in thepot, they’re a’ in the plate before you : themgi’ him a fpoon and let him fup wi’ us: thefoldier gets a fpoon, and thinking he couldfup all he faw himfelf, the firft foup he putin his mouth'fpoufed it back again in theplate, and cries out, O my fore mouth, thehide’s all of it yet fmee I had the clap : thenevery one threw down his fpoem the foldiergot all to fup himfelf; the wife flood curl¬ing and fcolding all the while, and when he"John Falkirk's Witty 'jokes.*7as done, burnt both plate and i'poon in thee, to prevent the clap. So the foldierme oft' with a full belly, leaving the wiferefting the goodman’s rigging with a fourottd ftool, for bidding him fup.A churlish hulband and a virtuous wifelie time fell fadly out, becaufe the wile hadven fomething to the poor , what faid he,iftrefs I’ll let you know there is nothing a-ut this houfe but what is mine, arid you’reline, and you’re very arfe is mine; a well,pell, goodman, then you’ll let me have no¬ring, take it all and give me peace: So a-|'ay they wen* to bed. the good-wife turneder back-fide towards the good-man; and ase was failing afkep, Ihe draws up her fmcck|nd let’s fly in the goodman’s Ihin-tarl, whichwakened him in great fright, as he haden (hot; ay, ay, woman what are ye a-iout ? what am I about faid fhe ; dear wo-ran you’re filing the bed : not I good-man,r when my arfe was my own I took care of, and take care of it now, it’s your’s Olife woman and clean the bed, and keepfour arfe, and a the liberty ye had before,tnd more if ye want it, feign, feigh, what’sthis ? I’m a’ dirt. -A fhip’s crew being one time in great dif-refs at fea, by reafon of a violent ftorm,.nd being air fallen down to prayer, exnetf-ng every moment to go to the bottom; therelappened to be an old gemteman a paffen-£er on board with them, who had a greatiS John &'kirk's Witty yokes.big red nofe with drinking ale and whiiky"and being all at their lait prayers as thethought: a little boy burit out into lotalaughter: O thou thoughtlefs rogue, faid th;captain, what makes thee to laugh, in feeinsus ail on the point ol perilhing? why fanthe boy, 1 cannot but laugh for' to thirdwhat a tine fport it will be, when we are aldrowning^ to lee how that man’s red noliwill make the water biz, when he comes ajbout it, at which words they all fell a laugh*!ing and cherilhed the crew, fo that they tnaddanother attempt to weather it out, and gotall fafe afhore at laft.My lovely Bet,The beauty of old age, thy hoary head,and louching flioulders incline to mortality:yet PH compare thee to the Fagle that hasrenewed her youth, or a leek with a whitehead and a green tail, this comes to theawith my kind compliments, for the kilfes ofthy lips, and the kindnefs I had to thy latebed-fellow fidler Pate my brother penchion-cr, ah! how we drank other’s health, withthe broe of the bracket ews, we broughtfrom boughts of the German Boors; butit’s nonfeufe to blow the dead when in thedull, yet a better Viaier never fereeded on afiiken cord, or kittl’d cat’s trypes wi’ hisfinger ends; his elbows were fupple as aneel, and his fingers dabbed at the jiggingend like a hungry hen picking barley : llel-dorn er ever law him drunk, if keep him’ Quaker and Claivn, a rjondt rful Tale. 191 whifky, and whificy from him; exceptnight he tryftet the pair of free Honeches from Jofeph the mafon; and newdear Ik fly he’s got themv he’s got them,free {tone covers his body, holds himn, and will do; and now, now, mytty thing, my bonny thing, my, heftch for matrimony, come take me now,ell me now, I am in an an^er, I’ll waitlanger, I fav be clever, either now orer, it’s a rapture of love which dees mere. I’ll have a wife, or by my life, if (he!uld be blind and cripple, i’ll fell my win’,her meat and fun, the like ne’er gadetvn her thrapple ; lo now Befly 1 love you,my love lies upon you, and if you loveme again, fome ill chan e come upon,as I’m flvting free, I’m both in loved banter, or may your rumple ruit forI’ve fworn it by my chanter.r THE END OF JOHN FALKIRK’S JOKES.L QUAKER and CLOWN, a wonderfulTale.i/t, Certain clown, named Roger, lovedjL the chimney-corner fo much bettertan a church-pew, that he conflantly pafledis Sundays in it. It was lo long fmee head attended divine fervice, that he icarcemiembered the colour of the par Ion’s cat-ick. His wife, who heartily wifhed his ab-mce was mere frequent, took occaflon oneso The Quaker afid Clown^ a wonderful Tafday to reprefent to him, in the moll eftipbiical manner, what an heinous crime it v(to negleft divine fervice. She held forthf'long, and fo loud on this head, that he, ?|ed by her vociferous eloquence, rather th|convinced by her arguments, determined |aleave his beloved feat, with an intention ,lrgo to church. He went accordingly frohome; but happening in his way to t!church, to fee the door of the Quaker’s meting open, he went hr, fat down on a forirand fell fail afleep.Aminadab Holdforth, having fuflainefome lofles, was telling his auditors, thnwhatever they gave to him, fhouid be return }ed twofold. Roger waked juil as he madlthis declaration, and from the meeting to bit1cottage revolved thefe words in his mind. ;When he got home, he repeated them tilhis wife; telling her at the fame time, thatas he thought it improbable his friend AmSnadab Ihouldlie, he-was determined to makahim a prefent of their cow Cherry; as inwould, according to his promife in the meet-be returned two-fold.On this extraordinary information thepooriwoman fet up a mod difinal outcry • urgingjin the ilrongetl terms, that her dear Cherry'smilk was the chief of their fupporr: but allto no purpofe, Roger was abfolutely bent onhis defign, and drove away immediately toAminadab’s, regardlefs of her lamentationsand piteous moans.\i Quaker and Clown, a wonderful Tale. 2 r4rhen he arrived at his houfe. Friend A-iidab happened to be at the door. Ro-dire&ly doff’d his hat; and gnawing itsters, addreffed him in the following man-“ Friend Aminadab, Ize brought youj: our cow Cherry, an you pleafts to ac-fi: an her.”—“ Thou art a good fellow,”ies Aminadab : “ Here, Sarah, take oureft neighbour into the kitchen, and leteat heartily; and, hark ye, make himildt fome of our bed ale.” At thefe wel-ere found, Roger’s heart leapt with joy.Iwas conduced to the kitchen, where hefed his part moft manfully i and, in a cou-Ij of hours, was fent home as happy as a!jnce.When he came home, he boafted to hise that he had already received fomethingpart of his gift; that all would be return-nin time; and that he was certain his friend(hinadab had fpoken truth; but his wifererrupting him in the harangue, with anitufation of ftupidity, and having fooliftdyrmed hhnfelf and her, Roger to avoid fur-•rr altercation, retired to bed, and fleptanmdly till morning.:.(As foon as Roger waked, his ears weresracted by the founds of moo—moo—mooilder his window. He got up ; and iook-j i out, perceived his own cow Cherry, andiminadab’s bull, whom (lie had decoyedfme with her. Overjoyed at the fight, heJaked his wife, and informed her of their21 The Quaker And Clown, a wonderful Tsjfgood for‘une ; and at th:, fame time upbriing her for her unbelief of words uttere;-the meeting ; and remarked, that his friAminadab had been better than his wcfor he had not only returned his gift tfold, but had likewife given him the i.dinner he h id ever tailed in his iife.It was then determined to fell the band keep the cow- No fooner refolved cthan put in execution; the bull was fc"and the cow referved for her former ufe.:Roger, having fuch fuccefs by goingmeeting, determined to go there again, inext Sunday, being feated as before, he vvery attentive to Aminadab’s difcourfe ;towards the conclufion, he was greatly-ftonilhed to hear him pronounce the folioing words: “ That whereas on Monday 1I have loft my bull, together with a cow la?ly made me a prefent of; whoever can giinformation of the faid cow and bull, fothey may be recovered, fiiall receive a crovreward.’'This appearing fomewhat myfterious |Roger, he refolved to intimate his furpri-to Aminadab; whom he addreflfed accoringly, as he was coming out of the me<ing. The Quaker, finding by his difcourthat he was the perfon who had got both coand bull, told him, in a great pafSon, thhe would the next morning take a ride tMr. Clearcaufe (a juftic« of the peace, wklived at about three miles diftance) and itWhs Quaker and Cloivn. a wonderful Tale. 23rm hitri of the affair. Roger determined to bethe juftice’s as foon as the (Quaker, and let outrcordingly the next morning early.On the road, Roger efpied the Quakers horfeed to the door of a (mail hedge" ale-houfe, to ,hich he immediately irent; and, peeping thro’window, perceived Aminadab and the landlord’sdfe, tranfafting fome affairs which could not be?rnr.ed abfolutely decent. At this unexpectedght Roger was greatly overjoyed, knowing heould intimidate the Quaker at any time, by let-pig him underftand what he was privy to, whichimuldexcite therageof hisown conjugal termagant.Roger entering the houfe, drank a pint of aleeith all polfible fpeed ; and then informed the (er-ant that Mr. Holdfo_;h and he had agreed to ridepell and fpell, or what is otherwife called ride andye : a method practifed in the country when twojo a journey together, and have but one horfe bs’-ween them ; one riding firit and leaving the horfeit a place appointed •, or if neither of them know:he way, tying him to the door of fome publicboufe, in fuch a manner as the other muff abfo¬lutely fee it; and, dei'etibing to the people of thehoufe the perfon they are to deliver the horfe to; inthis manner they proceed during the ivhole journey.Roger having got pofleffion of Aminadab’shorfe,rode it to the town where the jullice of the peacelived, and there (truck up a bargain with a greatdeal of expedition, and fold it; then waited at thejultice’s door for the Quaker.Poor Aminadab, whofe corpulency was no greatfriend to hi0 walking, in a (hurt time after cameipuffing and blowing towards the juftice’s. Roeerimmediately informed him, that being very muchtired by his journey, and feeing his horfe hand i-dle at a door, he had made bold to ufe him : and,finding j^chap who was willing to give a good24 The Quaker and Clozvn, a wonderful Tale.price for him, he readily fold, him, thinking it afin to refufe a good offer; and therefore hoped hewould not take it ill what he had done.Upon hearing this, the Quaker'was in a greatpaffion; and faid, “ Thou villain ! what, afterhaving robbed me of my bull and ?ow, to ftealmy hone!—why—why fellow, don’t you think tobe hang’d ?”—“ I hope not,” replies Roger; “ buthowever that may be, pray friend, let me alk theeone queftion. What might you be doing when I •took the horfe ?”—“ Hulh ! Hufh !” cries theQuaker, in a terrible fright—“ Never mentionwhat thou haft feen, and I’ll forgive thee all. Gothy ways; and hark thee, take grtfoewith thee.”Roger bowed, and proceeded homewards; but,as the Quaker moved flowlv. determined to call athis hpufe. When be arrived there, the maid ac-cofted him with, “ Well, Roger, how haft thouand my mafter made it out ?”—“ Oh ! very r/eil,”replies Roger, “ we’re as good friends as ever.He bid me go, and t&'&z grace with me.”—“ Grace!cries the maid ; “ what, and all her pigs !”Now, reader, you muft know, grace was a fa-vourate fow of the Quaker’s, who had lately lit¬tered a fine parcel of pigs. The maid thinking ither mailer’s intention, turnecj the fow and her lit¬ter out of the fty, and Roger drove them homebefore him.The Quaker’s wife was foon made acquaintedwith the affair; and the reception Aminadab nu twith from her, when Ihe faw him come homewithout his horfe, is better imagined than expref*fed—But I am credibly informed, that his ha¬rangues in the meeting were for fome time aftervery much larded with invedlives againft rage—hard words—and an immoderate indulgence ofthe pafiions.Glafgow, Printed by J. 6c M. Robertfon, Saltmarkei, iSoc