COMICAL TRANSACTION#O FSa O T H IJkM TOMIN SIX PARTS*PAISLEY:PBiUTKO 9. CAPD'VTEJLL aiOH STREETTHECOMICAL TRANSACTIONS,O FJLfJTfilAW TOM.PART I.This Thomas Black, vulgarly calledLothian Tom, after his native county, washorn four miles from Edinburgh. Hisfather being a very wealthy farmer, gavehim good Education, which he was veryawkward in receiving, being a very wild,cross, and mischievous boy.1. When he was about ten years of age,he vr&s almost killed by (lie stroke of ahorse'a foot, which his father had, whohad a trick of kicking at every person thatcame belr.nd him ; but when Tom was getheal of the drer-dfu! wound whereof manythought he would have died, to be evenwith the horse, he gets a clod, or piece ofa tree, full of wooden pins, such as shce-vtakera use to soften their leathsi upon,i with a rope, he tied it to the coupic-tvauk in the stable, directly opposite to thehorse's tail; then gets up on the bank,and gives k a swing back, so that the pikes3in the end of it, came full drive againstthe horse’s arse, which made him to fling:and the more he flung and struck at it,it rebounded back and struck him : Thebattle lasted with great fury, for a longtime, which was good diversion to Tom.until his father, hearing some disturbancein the stable, came in to know the matterand was surprised when he saw the poorhorse tanning his own hide, with his legsall cut and bloody, he cut the rope, andIthe battle was ended. But the poor horsewould never kick at any that came behindhim afterwards, hut. always ran from it.<2. It happened one day that Tom wenta-fishing, and brought home a few smallfish, which his granmother’s cat snapt upin the dark ; so Tom, to have justice c.fthe cat fcr so doing, catches her, and putsher into a little tub, or cog, then sets' hera-drift into a mill dam, ordering her to goa-fishing for herself; then sets out two orthree d»‘gs upon her, when a most terri-I ble sea-fight ensued, as ever was seen onfresh-water; for if any of the dogs assay-Ied to board her, by setting in over theirnose, hadrons came flying to that quarterto repulse him with her claws ; then the5 teasel was like to be overset uy the weight4.af I'erAelf, so she had to dee to the otlier Jnnd linding the same thei’e, from thenc^to the middle, vhere she sat metvijjg, al¬ways turning herself about, combing theirnoses with her foot, The old woman,being informed of the dangerous situationef her dearly beloved cat, came runningwith a long pole to beat off the dogs, andhaul her ashore. What now, says Tom,if you be going to take part with my en-emies, you'shall have part of their reward:Then gives the old woman such a push,that she tumbled into the dam over headand c;irs, beside her beloved cat, andwould undoubtedly have pc fished in thewater, had net one of the people, whowas there looking at the diversion, eoaie 'to her relief.■V After this Tom was sent to tboschool, to keep his hand out of an i'll fu-m,\nd having an old cankered, cnib. witte'dfellow for his domivtie, they were alwaysat variance ; for if Tom bad got his w hips,w hich he often deserved, he was, sura tobe revenged upon his’ master again, for it,>> Torn perceiving that his master had adase-doc; in a little clout within the'v IujoI, where he- went to ease, himseif,'}>jm g*t5 o penny-woUh ot gan-powdc;*,<?|a» 1 sprmklcd it on ihe ground, directly'before the seatj ttvA lays a little cCit alon^nn a train to th.i fire-side; then ohsertin^1 when iii■; Master Went into "t, ami h«Vwas' loosing down his breeches, sets fire Utlic train, which, blew it ail about his mas-ter^ hare hips, and scorched him terribly,besides tins fright, for which Tom y-ksseverely -vhipt; yet, in a little a-fttr, herevenged it on his Master, ’4. So it h, jjpened one day, as Tornwent into his Master’s house, the wife wasstooping into a big meal barrel, to bringout some mqai; Tom takes her by the feetand coups her sip ifito the barrel with herhead down, and her bare back side upper¬most; then runs into the School, crying,O Master, Master! the De’ii’s lockingout o’ vour moal stand, wi’ a fut Idee anda black ill-hair’d month : yon’s just AuldNick, if lie be living—-M.this time theMaster r *a with all the speed he eocld,to see what it was, and fbu>d it to be bicown wife speechless and almost smotheredto death; but as she could not tell whodid it, Torn got clear off; yet he was hojisasustied without some more vengeance onthe old fellow; and knowing h:s hlastei*had a fashion, when he was going to whipthe hoys, if they would not looseureeches willingly, lie took his knife anavnt them through the waistband behind::;'.h Tom goes to a batcher, and gets a rav«pudding, and fills it with blood and water,,and puts it within the waist-band of Ids.'breeches, then goes to the school next dayand, as the master was sitting, with hb|hack towards the fire. Tom lights a piece•f paper, and sets Ids wig in a low, whichburnt for some time unperceived, until theDames came fizzing about his cars ! Hofirst put out the flames by trampling on thewig, and then flies at Tom in a rage, or¬dering him to loose, his breeches, but Tomtold him lie was never so mad : then herook Ids knife, and whips poor Tom overknee, and with great kicking and strug¬gling, cuts the waist-band c‘f his breeches jthro* pudding*an'd all, so that the bloodgushed out, and Tom cried out Murder!Murder! and down he fell; the poor do-mhvc ran out at the door crying & wring-rug his hands ; word flew about i-hat TomWas sticket by the Dominie, which madethe people come running from several pu tsof the country round about, to see how itwas; but on searching him, they foundOnly the empty pudd.og, which discover-#ed the fraud : Then two men had to tretOhorses and ride after the poor Dominie,who had by this time got (2 or 5 miles a-wny, and when lie saw them coming afterhim, crying stop and come back again, lieran the faster, until he could run no morehut fed over on the road, praying them tolet him go, for, if he was taken back, hewas sure to he hanged ; and would not bepersuaded Torn was alive, until they forcedmm luck, and he saw him, bu( he wouldhe Tom’s teacher no longer; so Tom’sfather had to seek another master for him.Part JJ.5. ri ncre was a young woman servantto Tom’s father, whom Tom had offend¬ed by some of his nicks, and she, to beup with lorn again, one night spread ahandful of short nettles iu his bed, betweenthe sheets, which stung his legs and thighsso nm?h that .he was obliged to quite hi;Ixul for some part of the night; for whichhe resolved to be revenged, whenever aproper opportunity offered. 11 happenedin a few days after, that she was invitedto a wedding, where the dancing and di-8version induced her to stay all night; arJlin coming home in the morning; her mis-1‘ress set her to wash some clothes : Bet:she being fatigued with her night’s diver¬sion, fell fast asleep with her hands extend¬ed in the tub, and standing on her feetwith her belly leaning on the tub j Toniperceiving this, slips her petticoats anismock over her head leting the sun shineon her bare back-side, which faced thehigh-way. Several people passing by, asshe continued in this posture some of them• were diverted, and others ashamed at thesight; but a poor cadger-had the misfor¬tune to be coming: on the road at thc-timoand in’s horse taking fright at this unusu¬al sight, threw off the m eels and broke'the poor man’s eggs all to smash ; whichso enraged him, that he lashed her but-.tacks with his whip, in such an unmerci¬ful manner, that with the smart_& shametogether, she had not the least inclinationto sleep for the remaining part of that daj.(k 'lorn being grown up to the yearsand age of a man, thought himself wiser.and more artful than his father ; & therewore several things ; bout the house hehiked better than work ; so he turned tobe a dealer among the brutes, a ccwpet of#horses and cows, &c. and evoo wet wareamongst the brewers r.nd brandy shops,until he eowped himself to the toora hal¬ter: and then his parents wo aid supplyliim no more. He knew well his grand¬mother had plenty *of money, hut shewould give him none, but the old womanhad a good black-cow of her own : SoTom went to the fields one evening, andcatches her and takes her into an oldwaste house which stood at s distancefrom any other, and there he kept hertwo or three days, giving her meat anddrink when it was dark at night, andmade the old woman believe somebodyhad stolen the cow for their winter’s mart,which was grief enough to the old wo¬man, for the less of her dearly belovedcow. However, she employs Tom to goto a fair that" was near-by, and buy heranother ; and gives him three Pounds,which Tom accepts of veiy thankfully,and promises to buy one as like the otheras he possibly could get: Then he gets apiece of chalk, and brays it as small asmeal, and steeds it in a little water, andtherewith nib- ever the cow’s face andback, which made her baith bracket andr'-gget: So Tom in the.morning, takes10the cow to a public house within a littleof the fair, and left her till the fair wasover, then drives her home, before him;and, as soon as they came home, the cowbegan to rout as she used to do, whichmade the old woman to rejoice, thinkingit was her own hlack cow*, but, when shesaw her white face, she sighed and said,Alas! thou’ll ne’er be like the kindlybrute, my bonny Black-lady, and yet yourout as like her as ony ever I did hear;But, says fom to himself, ’Tis a mercyyou know not what she says, or ail wouldbe wrong yet. So in two or three daysthe eld woman put forth her braw riggetcow in the morning with the rest of herneighbour’s cattle, but? it came on a soreday of heavy rain, which washed avvay allthe white from her faee and back, so thatthe old woman’s Black-lady came homeat night, ami her rigget cow went an aywith the shower and was never heard of:But Tom’s father having some suspicion,and looking narrowly into the cow’s face,found some of the whiteness not washttlaway, and then he caught hold of Tom,and gave him a hearty beating, and senthim away to seek his fortune with a skinfull of sore bones,11PART III.7. Tcai being now turned to his ownshifts, considers with himself how to rakea little more money j so he gets a longstring, as near as he could guess to be thelength of his mother, and into Edinburghhe goes, to a wright who w7as acquaintedwith his father and mother: The wrightasked him how he did ? He answeredhim very softly, he had lost a good duti¬ful mother last night, and there's a mea¬sure for her coffin. Tom went ost andstaid For some time, and then comes in a-gain, and tells the wright he did not knowwhat to do, for his father had ordered himto get money from such a man whom henamed, and he was that day gone out.oftown : T>:e w right asked him how muchhe wanted ? To which he answered, Aguinea and a half might do, or 30 shillingsat the least: So he gave him the guineaand the half: Then 'bom gave him strictcharges to he out to-morrow by 11 o’clockwith the coffin, and, that he should gethis money with him. 'J om set out forthe ale-house, with the money, and livedwell-while it lasted. Next morning thewr.ght and his two lads went out with the12<?*$*:),. sni ai they v,xre going into tiwffioai-?, Tom's n other, standing at thedoor, sak^ the master how he did, andw'hore he was going with that fine cc£an ^He did not know wel! what to say, beingso surprised to see her alive ; but at lasthe told her, her son brought in the mea¬sure yesterday, and had got a guinea anda half from him, wire i he said was to buytome other necessaries for the funeral. <)the rogue ! said she, has he play'd methat ? So. the wiU'ht got bis guinea anda half, and so much for his trouble, and• had to take back his coSin with him again.8, Torn being now short of money a-gain, began to think luttf he could raisea fre-sh supply ; so he went to the port a-rnongst the shearers, and there he hiredabout *thirty of them, and agreed to givethem a ,whole week’s she ring at ten pencea-day, which was twopence higher thanany had got that year ; this made the poorshearers think he was an honest, generousand genteel master as ever they got, forhe took them all into an ale-house, andgave them a hearty breakfast, till theycould eat no more. New, says he, whenthere is so many of you together, perhapsfrom different parts, and unacquainted’ 13with ons-anothcr, 1 do not know, but s?thvre may be some of you honest men, fesome of you rogues; and as you are toall in one barn together, any of you wholias any money, you’ll be surest to give itto me, and I’ll mark it down ia ray bookwith your names, and what I receive fromeach of you, and you shall have it all »-gain on Saturday'night, when you getyour wages. O! very well, goodman,take mine, taka mine, every one fasterthan another; some gave him five, six,seven, and eight shillings, even aii theyhad earned thro* the harvest; which a-mounted to near Seven Pounds Sterling.Having got all their money, he goes onwith them, till about three miles cut ofthe town, and coming to a great Held ofstanding corn, tho’ somewhat green, yetconvenient 'for his put pose, as it lay atsome distance ffrom any house or person.So he made them begin there, tellingthem be was going to order dinner, furthem, and send his own servants to jointhem : Away hs goes with all the speedhe could, but takes another road into thetown lest they should follow end catchhim. Now, when the people to v.bot*the corn belonged, saw such a band i:.t*ntlieir field, tliey could not understand themeaning ©f it; so the farmer, whose cornit was, went off, crying always as foe ran,to them to stop; but they would not, untilhe began to strike at them and they at himhe being in a great passion, as the corn wasnot fully ripe; at last, by force of argumentand other people coming up to his assist¬ance, the poor shearers, were convincedthey had got the bite, which caused themto go away lamenting their misfortune.In two or three days after, as Tom wasgoing down the Canc»vigate, he meets onerf his shearers, who knew him, and keptfast by him, demanding his money, and sa¬tisfaction for the rest: ‘Whist, whist, saysTom,’ and you’ll get yours and somethingelse beside.’—So Tom takes him into theJail, and calls for a bottle of ale and a dram•and taking die jailor aside, as if he was go¬ing to borrow the money from him, he says‘This man is a great thief, J and two otherswere in search of him three days, and theother ‘2 men have the warrant with them,so if you keep the rogue till I run & bringthem, you shall have a guinea in reward,'’ Yes,* said he, ‘go and Til fix him.’ SoTom got oil*, leaving the man a ml the jail¬or struggling together, & goes to England.15PART IV.It9. Tom having now left his own mvtive country, went into the country ofNorthumberland, where he hired himselfwith an old miser of a farmer; and herehe continued for several years, perform¬ing his duty in his service very well, tho’sometimes playing a roguish bite on tlmseabout him. His master had a very naugh¬ty custom that he would allow them nocandle at night to see with, when at sup¬per : Tom one night sets himself next tohis master, and as they were all about tofall on, Tom puts his spoon into the heartof the dish, where the crowdy was hottestand claps a spoonful into his master’smouth ; a pox on you for a rogue, criedhis master, for my mouth is burnt! Apox on you fer a master, says Tom, foryou keep a a house as dark as Purgatory,for, I was going to my own mouth withthat soup, and miss’d the way, it being sodark} don’t think, master, that I am sucha big fool as to feed you, while I have amouth of iviy own. 80, from that nightthat Tom burnt his master’s month withthe hot crowdy, they always got a candle>o show them light ut supper, for his mas*16pter wiHtlu feed no more in the dark whileTom was about the house.. 10. There was a servant girl m >heforesaid house, who, alwrys when shemade the beds, neglected to make Tom’sand would have him to do it himself:—* Well then,’ says Tom, ‘ 1 havte harderwork to do, and I shall do that too.*—So next day, when Tom was in the field*at the plough, when he saw his mastercoming from the house towards him, hekit the horses and the plough standing inthe field, and goes away towards his mas¬ter, who cried, ‘ What is wrong? or, isany thing broke with you ?' ‘No no’ saysTom, but 1 bn going home, to make myl.^ed, it hr;s not been made these 2 weeks,&nd'j -ist now it is about the time the maidmakes all the rest, so I’ll go home andmake c ine too.’ No, no, sirrah, says hiamaster, ‘go back to your plough, and J’ilesuse it to be made every night 1» you'.’' Then/ says '1 om, I’ll plow two or threefurrows in the time/11. There was a butcher came to hismeter’s and bought a fine tat calf, soTorn laid it 'on the horse’s neck, before*V' butcher; and when, he was gone,*Now/ says Tom, ‘ wbal will you hold>«**»*. >»-rT»e...Tj’.a.'ter, Imt I'll steal 6(ut ca!f fro*r. c;-i-butciSer before lie. go** two milt-6 ofiit^ Why,’ says his master, ‘ i’ll hold a gubeea you don’t.’ ‘ Boae,’ says Tom. I ’he goes, artd gets a good slioe of his mas?tor's, a: l runs another way a-cress theHelds, until he got before the butcher,near the corner of a hedge, where therewas an open and turning of the wav; hereTom darts himself behind’the hedge, andthrows the shoe in the middle of the highway ; then up comes.the butcher, rding,mid his calf behind him ; ‘ Hey,’ said heto himself, ? there’s a good shoe, if llcnewhow to get on my calf again, l would lightfor itbut what signifies one without itsneighbour ? So of?'he goes, and lets it ly .Tom then si'ps out, and takes up the shc.tjig-yin, and runs cross the fields, untij hogot in betore the butcher, nt another cp-cuof the hedge, about half a mile dbtant,and there he throws out the shoe-ag.iin.oil the middle of the road ; then up c-amesi ha butcher, and seeing ii\ says to hhr.selff ?vow, 1 shall have a pair of good .'hoesfor the lifting; and down lie comes, lays•the calf on the ground, and tying hd luvito the hedge, runs back, think kg-; to yesthe other shoe, in which litne* 'Tom whijjiISup Inc calf and slice, and home lie comes,dwrvnding his wager, which his mastercould not deuy, being so fairly won.—The peer butcher returned back to hishorse, got only his. travel for his pains: somissing his calf, lie knew not what to raycr do. but thinking it had broke the ropefrom about its feet, and had run into thefields, the butcher spent that day in 5ean.f1of it amoxjgst the hedges and ditches, andreturned to Tom’s master’s ail night, in¬tending to go and search farther for itnext day, giving them a tedious relationhow he come io lose it by a cursed pairof shoes which lie believed the devil haddropped in his way ; and how lie had tak¬en the calf and all along with him, ex¬pressing his thankfulness that the devilwas so honest as to spare his old horse,when he stole away his calf.Kcxt mci ning Tom. went to work, ardunde a Tine white face on the calf withchalk and water'; then brings it out, andsells it to the butcher, which was gooddiversion to his master and other servants .to see the butcher buy his own calf again,iso sooner was Ire gone with it, then Tomj-uys, ‘New, master, what will you holdhut i’jl steal it front him again, ere hegoes 2 miles eOT? ‘ No, no,' says lus mas¬ter ' I’ll holu no more bets ;vith vou, butI’ll give you a sbiiling if you do it.’ Donesays Tom, ‘ it will cost you ro more.'So -‘way lie runs thro’ the fields, until hecame before the butcher, just at the placewhere he stole the caif from him the daybefore; and here he lies behind the hedgeend as the butcher came past, he put hishand on his mouth, and cried Ba, haw,lihe a calf; The butcher hearing thisswore to himself thr.t there was the calf hehad lost the day before ! Down becomesand throws the calf on the ground, getsin thro’ the hedge in all haste, thinkinghe had no more to do but to take it up ;but as he came iu at one p i! t of the hedgeTom jumps out at another, and gets thecalf on his back ; he then gets in over thahedge on the other side, and thro’ thefields he came safely home, v.lth the calfon his hack; while the poor butcher spenthis time and labour in vain, running fromhedge to hedge, and hole to hole, seekingwhat, was not there to be f • nd. So thebutcher returned to his horse again, andfinding hU other calf gone, he concludedit to be done by some iavi-ible .spirit ab e tthat mot ci ground ; and so went homo€0)'ar/.l n.is>'-d a }>a<i report on the rk-vs! say-icg, that he was turned a highwayman#ifiul had taken two calves from kinr. Solorn washing the vvhite face of tho stoleneaif his master sent the hutchee word totome and buy another calf; which he tu%■twdingly did a few days after, and T&msold him the Same calf the third time ;then told him the whole affair, as it wasacted, giving him his money again, do^hc butcher got but fun for his ttouhle.man, wlio lived hard by, that had a younggirl, her only daughter, .and she fell deepin .ove with Tom, and Tom fell as deepin love with the money, but not with thenntid ; ths old woman bestowed a vast ofpresents on Torn, and mounted him likea gentleman, but still he put off the mar¬riage, from time to time, and always want¬ed something, which the old woman gavethe money to purchase for him, 'unt il hehiid got about thirty pounds of her mon¬ey, ;lnd then •she would delay the nt^rriageno longer ; Tom went and took the oldwoman and I he girl aside, and made b;sA-gology as follows ; ‘ Dear, mother, saklXT21He, I ain very willing to wed with my1 Poi1/, for she appears as an .angel in mine,eyes; tut |[ am sorry, very sorry to ac¬quaint you that I am not a 6t match forher, ‘ What, child,’ says the old woman,I there’s not a fitter match in lire world foemy* Polly : t did not think your countrycould afford such a clever youth r,8 whst1 h'aryou to be ; you shall neither want; gold nor silver, nor yet a good horse toride upon, and when t die you shall have: my ah.’ ‘ O but,’ says Tdm, ‘ moth«r.' that’s not the matter at all, tlio stop is.this, when ^ was ?st home in Spot I and, li got i stroke with a horse’s foot, on thei hottorn of my belly, which has so quite: disabled me below, that 1 cannot perform; a husband’s duty in bed.’ The old vr«-i hearing thT clapped' her hands aa ir f**l! a crying, ‘Oi if it liad been any iuipc-diraint but that, but that, hut that wofa*I kh&t f which gold nor silver cannot pur-cha>c*, and yet the poorest people, eveai (tioambn hc-ggars,. have pleitty of if.’—i d he*old woman end ]>er daughter sat cry¬ing rid wringing their hands, and lornsi i-> i and wept lest he should get no me.ro?apyey. * (), mother,’ sap Pollr, 4 1’li1 uith Vm rievcvthcUts, 1 ’ov» hiraaa22cJeavly ! ‘ No, no, you foolish girl, wouldyou throw yourself away, to man y a manand die a maid ! voit don’t know the tnd•of your creation, it is the enjoyment of anvan in bed, that makes women to many,which is a pleasure like Paradise; and ifyou wed with thisjuan, you’ll live anddie and never know it/ • iloo, hoc/ saysTom, ‘ if 1 had got money, i needed notbeen this way till now, ‘ money you fool/said the old woman, ‘ there’s net such at King, to be got for money in all England,’‘Ay/ says Tom, ‘; here’s a doctor in New'-eastie, will make me as able as any otherin&n for ten guineas/ ‘Ten Guineas!’said she, ‘ I’ll give him £0 guineas if hewhi; but here is twelve, and go to himdirectly, and know first what he can do,and come again and we d my child, or sheand i will goon die both for thy sake/Tom having now' go! twelve guineas moreof their money, prepared for h:s jour'neyaad early next morning set out for New¬castle; but instead of going to Newcastle:he came to old Scotland, and left Pollyand her mother to think upon him. Inabout two weeks after, when he was uofelike to .return, nor so much as to sendcbeffl any v ord, the old woman and Pollygot a horse, aud came to Newcastle utsearch of him, and went through aii th*Doctors’ Shops, asking if there came ayoung man there about 2 weeks ago, witha broken to menu ? Some laughedat then-, others were like to kick themout of doors, and so they had to returnwithout getting any account of him.PART VI.15, Now, after Tom’s return to Scot¬land, he got a wife, raid took a little farmnear Dalkeith, and became a very douseman for many da vs, following his old bus-mess the cowping of horses & cows, feed¬ing of veals for slaughter and the like.So one day he went to a fair, and boughsa fine cow from an old woman, but Tomjudged by the lowness of die price thatthe cow certainly had some fault: Tomgives th* wife the other hearty bicker ofale, then says he, ‘ Gudewife, the moneym your-', and the cow is mine, ye maunit ell me ony wee bits o’ fauts that she has.’* Indeed,’ quo’ the wife, ‘the has n-e aGot hut ane, and if she had wanted it, IWad n§’er a parted ivi’ her.’ ‘ And what’sthat, Gndewifc ?’ said he. * Indeed,’ sardshe, * the filthy daft beast sucks ay hciseA‘ 5lute,’ says Tom, 4 if that be all, I’lls.-Hin cure her o’ tJut, ‘ O ! can ys do&aid the wife ; if I had kecd whathaxl a doue’t, ye wadna a gotten her.’—* A vrelV says Tom, ‘ Til tell you what Ito do : Take the cow’s price, I gave youjust now, and tie it hard and fust in yournapkin, and give it to me thro’ beneaththe cow’s vYsune, and i’ll give you thenapkin agaki over the cow’s back, and HIky tny life for it, that she’ll never sockher»el in my aught, ‘ 1 wat well/ said she' I'se do that, an’ there sheu’d be wdch-araft n/t. So lom no sooner got it thro’ *fceiow the cow’s waste, than he looses esi'tVhe aior.ey and puts it in his pocket, and.give the wife again her napkin over the«vmk back, accordingly as iso told her,?ity og * Now, wife, you have your. cow,and i coy money, and she’d never sackher.'i<d ja aiy aught, as l told you-, ‘ OV (tried the wife, ‘is that your care f Ijof9 etoaaied ye’ve cheated rr&?fS M I &