The Lafl PublickSERMON,Being a Faithful and Free one,PREACHED BYMr. Hugh MacKailePreacher of the Gofpel at Edinburgh,In the Old Church there, upon the Sabbathimmediately preceeding that 8th of Septem¬ber 1662, the Day affixed for the Remov¬al of the Minifters of Edinburgh from theirKirks, and themfelves and their Familiesfrom the City in ten Days thereafter.To which is added,A true Relation of his Sufferings and Death,for his Adherence to the Covenanted Workof Reformation.Together, withHislaft Speech and Testimony delivered by him on theScaffold,at the Crofs of Edinburgh,upon the ii&Dtc.1666,where he fuffer’d, in the 26th Year of’hisAgc."With fome Excerpts taken from the Hiftory of theSufferings of the Church of Scotland, with relationto the Sufferings of him and his Father Mr. Mat¬thew MacKaile, then Minifter at Bothwell.Enter'd in Stationer's Hall,EDINBURGH:Printed by R, Fleming for the Publillier, 1749.scotund JC ? )Song of Sol. i. 7.'Tell me, O thou /whom my Soul loveth,'where thou fee deft, where thou makes thyFlocks to reft at Noon: for why Jhould1 be as one that turneth ajide by the Flocksof thy Companions %AS there is a very ftraight Connexion betwixt Sinand Mifery, (b likeways betwixt Holinefs andHappinefs. Mifery is not only entailed to Sin,but even involved in it; Sin being a Separation of theSoul from God, the abfolute Fountain of all Happinejs andExcellency; hkeways Happir.efe is not only entailed to Ho-linefs, but even involved in it; Hohnefs being a near Con-junftinn of the Soul with God, the ablblute Fountain ofall Happinefs and Excellency. By Holinefs the Soul islike unto God, who is glorious in Holinefs ; by Sin theSoul is like unto the Devil, who is devililh by Sin. There¬fore it may be faid to all Sinners, You are of your Fatherthe Devil, and the Lufts of your Father you do. Butwhat the deplorable Confequences of Sin are, they alreadyknow, who now receive their Portion with Unbelievers;apd they (hall quickly know, who, tracing their Steps, arein an unhappy Motion toward their End 1 Ah, how littledoth the fecure World conftder, that that Day is haftin?toward them, which is fpoken of, Eccl. viii. 8. There is mMan that hath Power over the Spirit to retain the Spin! 5neither hath he Power in the Day of Death ; and there isno Di/charge in that War; neither Jhall Wickednefs deliverthefe that are given to it. There is a War there fpokenof, which God will manage againft all the Workers of Ini-A 2 quity ;iquity; a War wherein there is noDifcharge, neither willWickedncfs deliver them that are given to it. And whatthe glorious Confequertces of Holincfs are, they know, whonot only in this Life have tailed how gracious the Lord is,*,but now, being at reft from their Labours, tafte alfo how'glorious he is. How little doth it link in the Apprehen-fions of the moft PartT>f Men, that even thefe who hangdown their Heads, being in Heavinefs through manifoldTemptations, muft one Day rejoice, and lift up their Heads,becaufe their Redemption draweth nigh. And, truly; ifyou lift up your Eyes to the Confideration of the holy andIjxttlefs Nature of God, who is of purer Eyes than thathe can behold Iniquity, you will ealily be induced to be¬lieve, that they muft be fully drained from the Dregs of allImpurity, who are inftalled in fuch glorious Privileges,fpoken of, Rev. vii. i y. and 16. Thfy have iva/hed theirRobes, and made them white in the Blood of the Lamb, there¬fore are they before the Throne of God, and ferve him Dayand Night in his Temple; and he that fitteth on the ThroneJball dwell among them; they jhall hunger no more, nor thirjlany more, nor Jhall the Sun light on them, nor any Heat.They are above the Reach of all Mifery, becaufe theyare above the Reach of allbin : But, becaufe theChildren ofthe Kingdom, while they are in this llrange Land, militantagain!! innumerable Oppofitions, are yet in a great Meafureinfedted with Ibme finful Stain ; whether we look uponthem dijlributively, there is not one juft Man upon Earth,that fo doth good as he finneth not; there is, even in itPaul, Sin dwelling within, hindering him from the Good ■which he would, and prompting him to the Evil which lieWould not; or whether we look upon them colie [lively,there are Ibme in the whole Collection of Believers, who,by Ibme palpable Back-Hiding, offend the whole Generationof the Righteous ; and, therefore, they cannot fay to theirEnemy, O Enemy, Deftrucftions are come to a perpetual„ . End,C * )End. There is feme Sm at the Root, therefore there muftbe fome Mifery in the Bloflbm. The Church, in this Chap¬ter, is confcious to herfelf of a Biacknefs marring her Com-linefs, and likeways hath the Experience of a burningblemiihing her Beauty. There is a twofold Deformityconceivable in the Church of God, one inward, anotheroutward; that inward is real, confifting in the Remnant ofCorruption, not yet perfectly purged out; that which is out¬ward is rather apparent, having its Exigence rather in theApprehenfions of the hood-winked World, which judgethalter the outward Appearance, accounting them the Fil-thinefs of the Earth, andOif-fcouring of all Things, who,in the Judgment of God, which is according to Truth, arethe excellent ones of the Earth : the Fil l! arifeth from theOppofition of Satan, by an inward Enemy Sin ; the Secondarifeth from the Oppofition of Satan, by the open Enmityof Men, who are fo infatuate, as to condefcend to be theExecutioners of his Rage againlt Believers. And truly thisDifpenfation of God rnay give juft Ground of wonderin'*at him; that he, who loves his People with an everlaftingand an unchangeable Love, ftiould permit thofe, who havethe Devil for their Mafter, fo much to over-power themwho have Angels for their Servants. Yet oftentimes itcomes to pafs, that the People of God are fo put to itthat they, in a Manner, know not what to do ; the Sun ofAffliction and Perfecution beats fo fore upon’ them thatthey are tempted to feek a Shelter,by turning afide to theCompany of thefe who account the World and the Thingsthereof fo alluring Rivals, that they are worthy for whomChnft fflould be forfaken, till their Love prompt them tofeek a Shelter in h.s Company, whom their Soul lovethand from him alone; therefore faith fhe, Tell me, 0 thouv)hom my Scul loveth. ’. Tlle Strain of this Book is entirely parabolical, and asit were an Enlargement of die Parable, Matt. xxii. of3 thethe Marriage of the King’s Son, wherein Solomon, accord-'ing to the Angular Prerogative of Wifdom, wherewith hewas privileged above all the reft of the Children of Men,diveth deeply into that myftenaus and admirable Con¬junction betwixt Chrift and his Church, which is called.Rev. xxi. 9. The Bride, the Lamb's Wife-, wherein, under-borrowed Terms, he giveth a vive Reprefentation of Be¬lievers in their various Exigencies and Dependance onChrift in this World, and of his Difpenfations towardsthem, in condelcending to a gracious Supply. And in thisPlace the Church is held forth, under the Figure of a chalteVirgin, (landing without, in a defolate and forlorn Eftate,in the fcorching Beams of the Sun (hining in his Strength,anxious where to And a fatisfying Shelter, accounting it amifcrable Thing to join herfelf to thefe who prefume torival it with him whom her Soul loveth, whom (he there¬fore fcornfully calls his Companions ; and in this Strait (hecrieth to him for a Shelter and Reft. So likeways it often¬times comes to pafs, that the Condition of the Church ofGod is darkened by AffliClion, the Lord covering theDaugh-ter of Zion with a Cloud in his Anger, and calling downfrom Heaven to Earth the Beauty of his Ifrael; and theDevil catcheth hold of this Occalion to fot at Work allhis Inftruments to fet forward their DeftruClion, if fo byany Means he can engage his People to lay afide their In¬tegrity, to hearken to the InllruClion that caufeth to errfrom the Words of Knowledge, or to break forth into aMurmuring ; Why fhould I wait for the Lord any long¬er l But they who have their H arts already difengagedfrom the World, and engaged to Chrift, will account itnnreafonable to hearken to anything that may fupport aDivorce from him; and therefore, when they are furround-ed with Difficulties, they turn in to that known Boforhwhere they have oft poured out the Complaints of theirSoul; hence they feek Counfol and Strength to follow it.YonYou fee this clearly examplified in Jehojhaphat, 1. Chron.'xx. 12. 0 our God, faith, lie, ivHt thou not judge them ?for we have no Might againjl oil this Company that comethagainjl us: neither know we what to do; but our Eyes aretoward thee.That the Afflictions of the People of God are dearlyimported by the Sun fhining upon them, is eafily demon-ftrate from many Places of Scripture ; in particular, lookto the Parable of the Sower, Alatt. xiii. there is femeSeed falleth among Stones, which, immediately fpringingup, is fcorched by the Sun. In the opening up of the Pa¬rable, the Lord applieth it to Tribulations and Perfecuti-ons arifing becaufeof theWord: So likevvays, I fa. iv. Chriftis held forth under the Figure of a Tabernacle in the Day¬time from Heat; as alfo, in that forecited Place, vii.the Immunity of the People of God in Heaven is exprefledin thefeTerms ; The Sun (hall not light on them. Whence’tis clear, that by the fhining of the Sun upon God’s Peo¬ple is imported any thing that annoyeth them, from whichChriil here fheltereth them, and at the latter End fully de¬livered! them. Alfo, that by thefe Companions, here fpo-km of, are not underftood the true Friends of Jefus Chrift,is evident, if you will confider the great Averfation theSpoufe hath to their Company, difeovering that fhe couldnot follow thefe without a Turning afide; as alfo the Lord,•in his Anfwer, dired’ts her to the Footfteps of the Flocks,and Shepherds Tents, as fomewhat diltlnd from thefeCompanions here fpoken of.The Words then are a ferious Supplication of theChurch of God, under the Preflure of fome heavy AffliClfi-on ; Affliction come to its greateft Height as the Sun atNoon, and in this Strait fhe crieth for Help; her Prayerfalls willingly in thefe three : Fir ft, the Compellation fhegives to Chrifl: to whom her Prayer is direCtcd, 0 thouwhom my Soul Imeth ! idly, the Petition itfelf, managedi-'“ " •' with( 8 )with a great deal of Tendernefs and Familiarity ; Tell me'(faith fhe) where thou feedeft, and where thou makeft thyFlocks to re]} at Noon ? 7,dly, an Argument, whereby (heprefleth the hearing of her Suit; and it is from the Difad-vantage (he might through Frailty fuftain ; Why Jhould 1be as one that turneth afide by the Flocks of thy Companions ?I (hall draw up thefe three things in one Propofition, and,in unfolding of it, touch them particularly.Propof. Although the fmcere Lovers of Jefus Chriftmay be fo fcorched by the Heat of Afflitftion and Tribula¬tion, as not to know where to find Paflure or Reft, yet’tis fo unreafonable a thing in their Eyes to turn afide bythe Flocks of his Companions, that they will feck Paftureand Reft in his Company, and from him alone. This maybe, at firft Reading, perceived to be the very Scope of theWords. There are theft four Things in it :if}. That there are fome Companions of Jefus Chrift,whom, even in the greateft Extremities, we cannot follow,without turning afide. By Companions of Chrift here, un-derftand not thefe who are really fo, whom he honourethwith the Title of his Friends, John xv. 14. You are myFriends, if you do whatfoever 1 command you, or, at leaft,as they come under that Notion; but thefe whole Workand Defign have a Tendency to ftt the Soul at Variancewith Jefus Chrift, or at a Diftance from him, who, whenthe Lord Jefus, the eternal Wifdom of the Father, crieth,Turn in hither ; they upon the other hand, by Word orevil Example, fay, Turn in hither. I (hall reckon outin general thefe four Companions whom we cannot follow,without turning afide.Fir]}, Theft who carry it written upon the Face of theirConverfittion, in Capital Letters, that he that runs mayread it, that they are Enemies to Jefus Chrift ; and theft'arc the openly profane. Profanity abounding is a fpiritualpeftilence ; Souls are thereby tumbled over by Heaps intoeternal( 9- ) 'eternal PerJitiort; and tlie Devil makes a profperous Pr<>-fanity a Temptation to the Children of God toturnafide,and make Choice of theirDelufions : When a Believer feethProfanity rejoicing, enjoying as it were the Cool of theDay, while he endureth the Heat of it, he is tempted tofay, with Afaph, Pfal. Ixxiii. Surely 1 have cleanfed tnyfelfin vain, and wa[hen my Hands in Innocency. As it is a love¬ly thing, in the Eyes of God and his People, to lee themgoing up in Tribes to give Thanks to the Lord, fo it is apleafant thing, in the Eyes of the Prince of Darknefs, tofee his Servants go forth by Bands, to fee them join toge¬ther, and break their Sleep, that they may give themfelvesto Drunkennefs, Whoredoms and Blafphemy. How har¬monious a Melody is it in the Ears of Hell, which youhave, Prov. i. 11. Come with us, let us lay wait for Blood;let us lurk privily for the Innocent, without Caufe ; let us fwal-low them up alive as the Grave, and whole as thofe that godown into the Pit. There is not only many Devils inone Man many Times, but even one Devil in many Men,whereby they are fo harmonious in Profanity : He not on¬ly would have one Man faying for himfelf. Depart fromme, 0 Lord, but he would have fuch a Voice, iffuing ifomSocieties and Corporations, Depart from us, Almighty, forwe defire not the Knowledge of thy Ways -, that whole Citieslliould entertain Chrift after the Cuftom of the Gadarens,praying him to depart out of their Coafts. O how ftrong-ly does the Pulfe of Men beat toward Profanity, and allManner of Abomination! that not only Motives ot Reafonfrom Virtue and Honefty, but even Bonds of Religion arebroken afunder. Heaven and Earth oftentimes mourn forCompaflion over thele who boalt themfelves of their Heart’sDefire, and blefs them whom the Lord abhorreth. I mudappeal to Honour itfelf, and ask, whether it were much forReputation, that this Ihould be the Records of Hiltory con¬cerning you, that you were given to Drunkennefs, Un¬cle a nnefs. ( '10 rdeannefs, blafphemou's Swearing ? If the Cniifitleration ofthat Shame, and everlaiting Contempt that will certainly bepoured out on all fuch, do not move you, I 1 relieve, itwould ftrike a Terror into the Hearts of many Men, ifthatProclamation of Nebuchadnezzar, Dan. iii. 29. were iifa-ed out. And herein, I think, he puts to lhame all theChri-ftian Princes on Earth, upon one Demonftration of thePower of God; I make a Decree, faith he, that every People,Nation, Tongue and Language, which [peak any thing cmifsof the God of Shadrach, Mefhach, c^iAbedoego, fall be cutin Pieces, and their Houfe made a Dunghill; for there is noGod can deliver as he doth. O beware of turning alide bythe Flocks of fuch Companions; rather mourn over them.If the Unrighteous will be unrighteous ftill, if the Filthywill be filthy ftill, (hew ye at ieaft as much Conftancy inthe Service of God, as they do in the Service of the Devil;let him that is righteous be righteous ftill, and he that isholy be holy ftill.idly. The true Companions of Jefus Chrift are not tobe followed in their Unwatchfulnefs. The Unwatchfulnefsof one Believer, efpecially ifhe be more ftrong, is a Temp¬tation to another Believer, efpecially ifhe be more weak,to fall into the (ame Unwatchfulnefs; ifhe were as holy asPaul, follow him as he is a Follower of Cbrift, and no fur¬ther. Would to God, there were not fb much Caufe asthere is to complain, that there is too great Occafion ofHumbling given to one Chriftian by another; and that Oc¬cafion too readily taken. That Unwatchfulnefs in our mu¬tual Converfation is fo infe&ious, that our Deportment, onewith another, is not only without Advantage, but even toPrejudice. How little Obedience is there to that Command ?Heb. x. 24. Let us conjider one another, to provoke to Loveand to good JVorks. Chriftians, through Corruption, arefar more apt to kindle their Corruptions at the Corrup¬tions of another, than their Grace at the Grace of another.How(11 )How fad a Matter is it, that, when Chrilhans meet toge¬ther, there ftiould be a Meeting of Corruptions not of Gra¬ces, a Meeting of Reafbn not of Religion ? Should a wifeMan utter vain Knowledge, and fill his Belly with the EaftWind-, fhould he reafon with unprofitable Talk, or with Speech¬es wherewith he can do no good ? Beloved, the great Defignof the Devil is to undo you eternally ; if thou be amongthele impenitent Companions that turn afide from Chrift,he firives to keep thee there ^ if thou haft engaged thySoul to the Love of Chrift, he labours either to abolifl)thy Grace, or elfe to weaken it, not only by the evilExample of the openly Profane, but alfo by the Unwatch-fulnefs of true Believers : Therefore ought every one to fetaWatch over his own Converfation, both when theWickedare before him, that nothing efcape thee which may occa-fion Reproach to Religion, and alio before other Believers,that nothing efcape thee that may tempt them to turn afideunto that fame Unwatehfulnefs. The Confideration of theUnprofitablenefs of our ordinary Converfation mighttempt a tender Heart to an utter Abhorrence of all Society,to chufe rather to be among the dumb Beafts of the Wil-dernefs, than among Men, under whofeTongues are Vanity,to put to their Selah to that Wilh of David, P/al. Iv. 6.0 that 1 had Wings like a Dove, then would I fly away andhe at Reft -, lo, I would wander afar off, and remain in theWildernefs, Selah.o,d!y, Falfe Teachers are Companions that cannot befollowed, without turning afide : Wherefore fuch as fayand do not, or fuch as, either for Fear or Hope, fupprefs aneceflary Truth, or broach a damnable Error, a fpuriousBrood of fuch hath ever been the Bane of the Church ofGod in all Ages : Some build with one Hand and call downwith the other; lome pull down with both Hands ; manyramverfe that Command, Prov. xxiii. 23. Buy the Truthand fell it not; they fell the Truth and buy it not : Howgreatgreat Madnefs is it for a Man to fell that, for a momentaryAdvantage, which is of more Excellency than his verySoul is worth ; yet fuch Madnefs is oftentimes incident tothofe who fit in the Chair of Wifdom and Truth. ’Tisgiven as a Chandler whereby to difcern a falfe Prophetfrom a true, Matt. vii. id. By their Fruits ye Jh all knewthem. And certainly this is a Chandler which not onlycomes within theCompafs of Reafon, but even offers itfelfto the Judgment of the gyes and Ears. How heavy aComplaint is that, Ifa. iii. 12. 0 my People, they who leadthee caufe thee to err, and dejlroy the Way of thy Paths.Teachers in the myftical Body of Chrift may be faid topoflefs the Place of the Eye; they ought to defery Dangerafar off, and forewarn of it ; and how lamentable is it whenthefe Eyes threaten Dangers, when thefe that look out attheWindows are darkened ? They are fuch Eyes as oughtto difcern even Mots in the Eyes of others : How fad is it,when they themfelves are full of the Beams of Profanityand Malicioufhels They are as a City let upon aHill; howlamentable is it, when that City is drowned with fuch aVomit as is fpoken of in Ifa. xxviii. 8. All ‘Fables arefilled with Vomit, there is no Place clean ? What is thatVomit ? fee Verfe 7. Fhe Prie/l and the Prophet have erredthrough ftrong Drink, they are fw allowed up of Wine. Itis not fufficient for them to fwallow it; they are fwallowedup of it; they are as aCandle let upon a Hill. How deplo¬rable a Condition fhall we be in, if that Light that is in usbe Darknefs, if that Candle be covered under the Bufhelof Covetoufnefs, vain Glory and Pride ? Is it poffible youcan follow' the Flocks of fuch Companions without turningafide ? Nay, let every Man deferve a Commendation ofNobility, upon that Account that is given to the Bereans,that would not take the Word of a Paul upon Trull, but{torched the Scriptures whether thefe things were fo.• t\thly.qihly, Thefe Companions cannot be followed withoutturning alide, efpecially in a Time of hot Perfccution ;•who enflave their Confcienctes to the Commandments of Men,that never inquire any further into their slttions, than howthey may ferve to purchafe them the Favour of Men. Soulsof Sale, I may call them, that by Hope or Fear, do withtheir Confciencies as Servants or Slaves do with their Li¬berty ; that have their Confciencies at every Beck of Menfor a little Hire. Certainly however complying with any finfulCourfe againft the Light of Confcience may fhrowd a Manfrom the Indignation of Men, it (hall render him lb much[ the more obnoxious to the Indignation of God. All law-; ful Commands of created Power bind the Conlcience, u-pon this Account alone, that the Power commanding is■an Ordinance of God, as it hath a Stamp and Impreffionof divine Authority -, if therefore any created Power (hallcommand any thing by God difeharged, there cannot beany Obligation upon the Confcience upon that account,except we lay, divine Authority in one thing (hould con-tradid itfelfin another ; therefore, in every Adion of aMan’s Life, by whatever Authority it be commanded, heis ever to inquire at his own Conlcience, whether it beright in the Sight of God or not, elfe he doth it not inFaith, and fo linneth. Let a Man be call; into the hottedTribulation, this will be a Comfort to him, which is toPaul, Jcls xxiii. i. 1 have lived in all good Confciencebefore God unto this Day. Whereas it will be a heavyChallenge, which you have in Job, xxxvi. 21. Takeheed, regard not Iniquity, thefe haft thou choj’en rather thanJftp Hi on,The Second 77;/»£ymported in the firft general Propo-fition, is this, That thele Companions here fpoken of maybe fo prevailing as to have many Followers; they go byI locks, the Flocks of thy Companions. ’Tis natural toall Men to love Pleafures more than God, and to refpedJS Chrift(. ( .14 )Chrilt lefs than his Companions : The pcrifhing Plcafuresof a prcfent Life are more alluring to many, than the Ri¬vers of Pleafures that are at his Right Hand forevermore.The World’s Terrors are generally more affrighting thanthe Terrors of the Almighty. In a Time of Peace andTranquility many profefs Friendlhip to Jefus Chrift, whoare overthrown by a Day of Temptation : To fee thefethat never had fb much as a Form of Godlinefs, wholeCondemnation it hath been to be Workers of the Worksol Durknefs, under the cleareld Shining of the Light, thatthefe continue at a Diflance from Chrift in a Time ofPerfecution, is no marvel; but even thofe that have feem-ed to be Pillars, that have fhined like the Sun, in Coni-parifbn of others, in the Church, a Tempeft arifing hathdarkened thele Suns, and fhaken thefe Pillars. Tribu¬lation is like the Dragon’s Tail, that draws Stars together,and cafts them to the Earth ; fo ftrong is the Force of it,that it diffolves all Ties whatlbever. Whence could aa Man expeft more Faithfulnefs than from his own Fami¬ly ? yet even there is a Fire kindled, that burns up allMonuments of Kindnefs, Mark xiii. 12. The Brotherjhall betray the Brother to Death, and the Father the Son.It may be faid of Perfecution which is faid of theftrange Woman, Prov. vii. 26. She hath cafl down ma¬ny wounded, and many ftrong Men have been ftain by her.Certainly every Man, upon Confideration of this, mayread to himfelf a Lcdture of Fear and Trembling.ydly. The Temptation may be ftrong, that even thefincere Lovers of Chrift may be tempted to turn a fide. Tellme, 0 thou whom my Soul loveth, where thou feedeft andwhere thou makeft thy Flocks to reft at Noon ; for why(hould1 be as one that turns a fide ? &c. The great Defign ofthe Devil, in all Tribulation, is againft thefe. The Fur¬nace muft be feven times hotter for Shadrach, Mefhech*ad Abednego, Servants of the Moft High. You knowwhatwhat is Daniel’s Obfervation, Den ix. 12. Under the whaleHeaven it hath net been done, as hath been done ;»Jerusalem.Neither is it any Wonder it fhould be (b ; the Children ofthis World have many Refuges to fly to in a Time of Tri¬bulation, but the Children of the Kingdom have only one ;and though it be truly far the fafeft, yet it expofes themto the World’s Evil fo much the more. Pfa!. xiv. 6. TheCouncil of the Poor is, even upon that Account, put toflame, becaufe the Lord is his Refuge. If there be amongEnemies lb much as a Defire to be reputed religious,they will account it a Dilgrace, that any fhould pretendto more Tendernefs than they. Sometimes the Fountainwhence Afflidlion flows, is great Power, which the Churchof God either cannot or may not reach, Ecc/. iv. 1. 1 be¬held the Tears of the Oppreffed, and they had no Comforter ;i on the Side of their Opprefl'ors there was Power, but theyhad no Comforter. And the Scripture doth abundantly e-vidence, that the People of God have been perfecute, fome-time by Pharaoh upon the Throne, fbmetime by a Ha¬inan in the State, fometime by a Judas in the Church ;their Yokes have been fo heavy, that it were as eafy toremove the Sun out of the Firmament, as to remove itfrom the Neck of God’s People ; and it may be the Lorduncovereth his People, and gives loofe Reins to Adverfa-ries to run upon them at a full Career, that they think itbelow them if they do not the Church great Injury.Eflher Hi. 3. Homan thought fcorn to lay Hands upon> Mordecai alone, but he theught to flay all the People ofI the Jews. There is no Cloud of Protection upon God’s5 People, to keep oflf the Malignancy of their Influences ;i there is a Cloud of Calamities, which renders their Mifery( fo much the more miferable, while they are made, in the1 Opinion of the World, to fuffer as evil Doers. Reproachi hath broken my Heart, faith David, No Wonder than tbeE 2 People( 1<* )People of Cod have a hard Past of it, having lb manyEnemies and fo few Friends.Athly, Yet, notwithftanding of this, ’tis very unreafon-able, in the Account of the Lover of Chrift, to turn aiidefrom him by the Flocks of his Companions, therefore Ihehath her Recourfe to him alone, with a IVhy jhould I beas one! be. There is not one Ttibulation that can feizeupon a Believer, but there is abundant Confolation toovercome it in Chrift ; fo that, though all the World Ihouidlorfake him, the Lovers of Chrift have no Reafon to dolb, but rather may fay with Peter, Lord, to whom (hall weg» but unto thee, for thou ha]} the IVords of eternal Life ?The Truth of this will evidently appear to you, if youwill follow the Words, in thele fix or leven Conlidera-tions.if. That any Reft that can be had by turning afidefrom Jefus Chrift is not his Reft ; it is not a Reft of hisgiving, nor in his Company : If his Reft can be had byturning allde, why Ihould lire, after lb lerious an Inquiryafter his Reft, evidence fo great an Averfation from turningafide by the Flocks of his Companions ? It is the Happi-nefs of a Believer, that the Reft which he hath, cither inPoirdfion or Right, is one of God’s Provifion ; and it werethe Wifdom of the People of God to rcjedl all Motions ofReft, which the Lord letteth rot his Seal unto : TheWorld’s Peace and the Lord’s Indignation ofteivtimes runin one and the lame Channel ; you may efcape the Furyof profane Men, if you will comply with them in their Pro¬fanity, but except you fo follow Peace with Men, as allbto follow Holincfs, you cannot fee the Face of God. Obeware, Beloved, of chufing the World’s Peace upon fetchTerms as will engage the Lord to trouble you. What aMadnefs Ihall it be for you to place the Foundation ofyour Quietnefs and Reft in the Favour of a poor Reed fha-ken with the Wind ? Is not this to bring you within theCompafsCompafs of the Curfe, ‘Jer. xvii. f. Curfeibe the Manwho tru/Ieth in Man, andmaketh Fle/h his Arm. Ah ! thefebroken Cifterns can hold no Water; thefe are not Wellsof Salvation but Confufion.idly. This may difcover, how unreafonable it is to turnafide even in the Midft of Tribulation, that no Afflictioncometh upon the People of God but by his fpecial Provi¬dence ; therefore he can aggravate, limit or remove it athis Pleafure : Even as the Sun is fixed in the FirmamentofHeaven, and the Influence thereof directed, by his Provi¬dence ; to warm or fcorch, nourifli or corrupt Things inthis inferior World, according to his Pleafure, lb, like-ways, Enemies have no Power, nor can they afluate thePower that they have, to the Prejudice of his People, w ith¬out his Permiffion. That which Chrift faid to Pilate maybe accommodate to all Powers on Earth, Thou canhave no Power over me, except it be given thee from above.He commandeth the Sun and it rifeth not, he fealeth upthe Stars. True it is, the Wicked are a raging Sea, caftingforth Dirt and Mire, but he alfo lets Bounds to the Rage-ing of the Sea, faying, Hitherto Jhalt thou come, and nofurther. As how hidden are the Goings of the Lord inhis Difpenfation towards his People, in nothing morethan in this may it be faid, that he dwelleth in thickDaiknefs ; though Enemies fflould wrap up their Defignsin deeped Secrecy, doth not God difcover deep things outof Darknefs; and bring to Light the Shadow of Death ?Why then Ihould the People of God be amazed at the Ap-prehenfions of Tribulation? Were it handlbme for a Childto weep to the Whip that drikes him, and not to the Fa¬ther in whofe Hand it is.o,dly, Confider that the Tribulations of the Children ofGod will certainly come to a Period, and the more violentthey be they are nearer to an End ; therefore they behere emblematized by the Sun, who, as he hath bis TimesB 3 of. < 18 )of riling, fb alfo of going down ; and by tbe Sun at Noon,when he is mounted up to his Meridian Point, he inltanl-ly polls downward. Not only is the Lord powerful andwile, and lb able to extricate his People from all Difficul¬ties, but allb his Power and Wifdom is bound over to hisPeople by a Promife, fo that it Hands him upon the Pointof his Fairhfulnefs to relcue them ; He will not fuffer theRod of the Wicked for ever to ly upon the Lot of theRighteous,left righteous Men put forth their Hand to Iniquity. Andlet all thole who have lift up themielves to call down hisPeople, fpeak their Experience of his Faithfulnefs; let Pha¬raoh. let Han an, let Judas, let Herod, let each of themfpeak their Experience of his Faithfulnefs ; let all that haveEars to hear, and, hearing, acknowledge, that never wasTHERE ANY THAT MADE THEMSELVES REMARKABLE FORPersecution, but God made them remarkable for hisJudgments. Though they have been of fuch Elevation a-bove the ordinary Level of Men, as none might fay tothem, What doll thou ? yet God hath faid to them inthe latter End, What hall thou done .f How terrible anExaltation is that in Exod. ix. 16. For this Caufe have Iraifed thee up to Jhew in thee my Power, and that my Namemay he declared throughout all the Earth. How does he,in a Moment, turn the Heart of Ahafitei'us againft Ham an ?Tbe fame Hand, that had lifted him up, doth likeways callhim down; he was advanced to a high Eftate, and the Fa¬vour of his Prince fhrewded him from Envy, till once itbe known that a Complaint may be acceptable, then oneComplaint of him after another, firft Eflher then Harbonah,Ejrber, vii. 6. 9. but none came to a more dreadful Ca-talirophe than Judas : He was intrufled by his Brethrenwith the Management of Matters of publick Concernment,AND HE BETRAYED THEIR MASTER, AND THEM BOTH. ButGod makes him fuch a Terror to himfelf, that he proveshis own Aflallb; and the more violent a Feriecution be> iristheC 19 )die nearer to an End, Matt. xxiv. aj. a a. Then flailthere be great Tribulation, Juch as was not ftnee the Begin-tting of the JVorld, no nor ever jhall be ; and what follows,except thefe Days fhould be flortned no Flejh Jhould be faved,but, for the Elect's Sake, thefe Days flail be flortned. Sothat Violence is an evident Demonftration of Ihort Conti¬nuance. How great a Damp might this be to the Fury ofEnemies, if thoroughly weighed? Certainly, as ’tis theWif-dom of God’s People, when they embark in Religion, toconftder ferioully what it may coil them, fo likeways oughtEnemies to do, whether they be able to perfect what theyhave begun, whether they be able with their thoufands tomeet God with his twenty thoufands, or elfe, while the■Lord is yet afar off, to fend Ambafladors and fue forPeace.e,thly, Conftder that, in the Time of hotteft Tribulation,God hath a Feaft to give his People ; the Spoufe doubtsnot that it is, but inquires where it is, Where feedefithou thy Flocks at Noon ? Let them be in a Wildernefs, herains down Manna upon them; let them be furroundedwith Enemies, he covers to them a Table in the midftof their Enemies. When Enemies empty one Cup, hemakes another to overflow and run over. There are'twoThings referved to the People of God, which the hotteftPerfecution cannot deprive them of, which makes up theirFealt ; fir ft Stiffen tation, fecondly Delight. For the firft,not to fpeak of that outward Provifion he makes for hisPeople, oftentimes preferving them from the bloody De-figns of their Adverfaries, he will raife up an Obadiahthat will feed the Prophets of the Lord by fifties in Caves,there is a fpiritual Sujfentation which he arTords unto them,keeping them from finking under Difcouragements; fo that,with the Apoftle Paul, they know how to want as wellas how to abound ; how to be hungry as how to be full ;how to be ftraiteaed as how to be enlarged; having learnedin1,( 20 )in all Conditions to be content. As to the fecond. Di¬light, A Feaft is not only for Suflentation, but allb forDelight, and this leads me to a fifth Confideration.Sthly, Confider that, in the midft of hotted Perfecuti-on, there is a Reft to be had with Chrift, and from him ;Where feedejl thou, and makejl thy Flocks to refl at Noon ?Not only is there Suftentation for their Neceftity, but evena comfortable Reft for their Satisfaflion. The Groundof a Believer’s Satisfaction is fomewhat above the Reachof worldly Tribulation ; whatlbever Commotion arife, itcannot touch their Foundation. Believers are comparedto a Houfe built upon a Rock, and Prov. x. ay. TheRighteous is an everlajling Foundation. He is comparedto a Tree, Pfal. xii. 3. His Root Jhall never be moved.Outward Advantages are but as goodly Pictures, or otherDecorements of a Houfe, which may be blurred or remov¬ed without Prejudice to the Building ; or, like fair feather¬ed Birds, chirping melodioufly upon the Top of a Tree,which may fuddenly fly away without any Difadvantage ;but that folid Decorement, the Image of God, cannot, byany outward Accident, be defaced, but rather rendered (omuch the more illuftrious and clear : A fiery Furnacecannot hinder the three Children to praife the Lord ; no¬thing can hinder their Obedience to God’s Command, andone great Command is. Rejoice evermore. There arefour Things imported in this Reft that the Lovers ofChrift enjoy in this Time of Tribulation.Firjl, Reft from Sin. All the Force and Fury of Tem¬ptations cannot lay a Conftraint upon them to lin againftthe Lord : Though a Meflenger of Satan Ihould buffetthem, yet there is a Grace fufficient for them. I believethe Malice and Fury, and Craftinefs of the Devil, tranf-feends the Malice, Fury and Craft of human Enemies : Yetthough he ufed his utmoft Endeavour to engage Job tocurfe God and die, yet Patience at length triumphs overTemptation.(21 )Temptation. Yea, Afflidion is the Lord’s Furnace, where¬in the more they be tried, they come forth the more pu¬rified; Job xxxvi. 8, 9, to. If the Righteous be boundin Fetters, and held in Cords of /'fflittion, then he fhenetbthem their Work and Tranjgrefions wherein they have ex¬ceeded ; he openeth alfo their Ears to Difcipline, and com-niandeth them to return from Iniquity. The Conclufion ofa believing Soul under Afflidion is, If God punilh me foIharply for thole Sins that I have already committed a-gainit him, much more lhall I not be ftricken if I revoltany more l This is the Conclufion of Ezra, ix. 6, 7, 15,and 14. / am ajhamed and blufh to lift up my Face to thee,0 my God; for our Tranfgrefions are gone up to the Hea¬vens : And for this we, our Kings and our Priejls, havebeen delivered over to a Spoil and Confnfwn. And after allthis is come upon us for cur evil Deeds, (feeing thou haftpunifhei us lefs than our Iniquities deferve') fhould -we againbreak thy Commandments, would thou not be angry with ustill thou had confumed us, and had left no Remnant nor E-fcapingi So that Afllidions are to a Believer Difengage-ments Ttom Sin ; and ’tis a dreadful thing, notwithftand-'nS °f Judgments, to be incorrigible. If we confider thelad Coniequences of it upon Pharaoh, it may bring all filchto this Conclufion ; My Flefh trembleth for Fear of thee,and is afraid of thy righteous Judgments.A fecond thing imported in this Reft is, Peace with Godthrough Jefus Chrift. This is a Shadow from the foorch-ing Sun, under which a reconciled Believer may fit, andthe Lord’s Fruit be fweet to his Tafte : No Worm cancome at the Root of this Gourd, to make it wither. Ene¬mies may do much to purchafe the People of Cod Enemiesamong Men on Earth, but they can never purchale themEnemies in Heaven. The Lord will not be bribed by theirGifts; for all the Beafts of the Field are his, and the Cattleon a thoufand Hills : He will not be allured by their Piea-fures ;( 22 )fures ; for at his Right-hand there is Tutnefs of Joy, andRivers o f Pleafures for ever more He will not be deceiv¬ed by their Craftinefs, nor conflrained by their Power, tofide with them againft his People ; for he isimfe in Heart,and. mighty in Strength ; ■who ever hardened themfehes a-gainfi him, and proff ered i How unreafonable then is it toturn afide from him by the Flocks of his Companions r finceail the World cannot make God your Enemv, when inturning afide from them you follow him. But," if you fol¬low the World and forfake him, he can make all theWorld your Enemies, or dellroy you and the World both.^dly. There is a Peace of Confidence which pafleth allUnderftanding, which is a continual Feaft. Rather let allthe Creatures fet themfelves in Array againft a Man, thanthat his Sins let themfelves in order before him. Betterone Handful with Qiiietnejs, than both the Hands full withVexation of Spirit; better to be fcorched in the hottedFurnace of Tribulation, than to have the Heart and Soulburnt up with the unquenchable Flames of a felf torment¬ing Conlcience. Bklled therefore is that Man, even inthe Mid ft of outward Mifery, who retaineth a good Con-fcience ; this cannot be reached by any Armour of Devilsor Men. Oil ! that thole Fools, whole Hearts are perpe¬tually in the Houle of Mirth, would confider their latterEnd ! The Beginning of a Sinner’s Day may be fweet,but their End is bitter as Wormwood. Men may hood¬wink their Confoience all the Days of their Life -, but, Ohow dreadful is it when Death begins to draw the Veil,and reprefent things as they are in themfelves ? I think Ihear the Shrieks and Howlings of a damned Spirit in Pri-fon, when I read thole dolorous Expreffions of an evilConfcience, Prov. v. i i, 12, 13 ; he had been dehort-ing Men from Sin, and, upon this Confideration, left thoumourn at lafl (faith he) when thy Flefh and Body are can-fumed, and fay. How have 1 hated Inflruttion, and my Heartdejffeddt/pifed Reproof, and have not obeyed the Voice of my Tea-chers, nor inclinedmineEar to them that inftrutted me l Whena Man, through Heat of Perlecution, is engaged to turnafide from God, he runs out of a Sparkle into a Flame ;God becomes thy Enemy, and at length thou wilt becomean Enemy to thyielf.4th/y, There is the Hopes of eternal Reft ; Heb. iv. 9.There remaineth therefore a Ref to the People of God. Thefare Hopes of this Reft will not only render all Tribula¬tion tolerable, but even defirable ; they are but light andmomentary, but work for us a far more exceeding and eter¬nal Weight of Glory. The Good and Evil of the Worldevanilh both out of the Sight of that Soul that hath itsEye fixed upon the Recompence of Reward. The Soundof that Salutation, This Night jhalt thou be with me in Pa-radife, made the Crofs of the penitent Thief preferable toall the Crowns of the World. And as the Hopes of thisReft is a Helmet of Salvation, keeping the Head from be¬ing wounded, the Enjoyment of it puts a Believer beyondthe Reach of all Tribulation. Heaven is fitly relembledby the Court of Ahafuerus; none' may come in thereclothed with Sackcloth. The Church is here beneath theSun, and fo obnoxious to fcorching ; there Ihe is abovethe Sun, the Sun lights not on her, nor any Heat : Andthis is the Motive from which the Lord himfelf preftTethStedfaftnefs, Rev. ii. 10. Be thou faithful unto Death, and1 will give thee a Crown of Life.Sixthly This may keep the People of Cod from turningafide in the hotteft Tribulation, that the Door is ftill openfor their Approach to God. This Liberty you (ee refervedto the Church, even at a Noon-tide of it ; Ihe may fay.Tell me, &c. Enemies cannot obftruct thefe Lines ofCommunication that are betwixt God and his People. Yea1 there is one Fold of the Door more opened ina 1 ime of Adverfity, than in a Tims of Profperity ; thereisv ^ , ( 24 )Is a particular Charge to approach to him at fuch a Time,and a particular Promife annexed to Obedience ; Pfal. 1.1 c. Call upon me in the Day of Trouble, and 1 will deliverthee, and thou jhalt glorify me. Tribulation-is a Timewhen the Lord makes Proof of his People’s Friendfhip tohim, in that they will not be diverted from a Courle ofObedience to him by any Hope or Fear whatfoever ; that,how defpicable Ibever they may be in the Eyes of Men,lie adheres to them, defpicable as they are, and evidencesthe Sincerity of his Friendfhip, in his gracious fupplyingof their Ncceflities, when they call upon him. Let thisbe recorded for a Cordial, though thou wert banifhed fromall thy Friends and Acquaintances on Earth, yet Godis within Cry, if thou be one that can give him thisCompellation, 0 thou whom my Soul lovetb. This you feeexamplified in the Cafe of David, Pfal. xxxviii. r 1. MyLovers ami Kinsfolk (land alpof from my Sore, and my Friendsftand afar off. But is there no Bolbm into which he canpour forth his Complaints ? is there no Eye that can com-pallionatcly behold his Mifery ? is there no Ear withinReach of his Groaning l Look to the pth Verfe, and youwill find one for all; Lord, all my Defire is before thee,and my Groaning is not hid from thee. How powerful aMean hath fervent Prayer been to effectuate Deliveries tothe People of God ? How oft did the Church, in that Bookof the Judges, cry to him, and how did he deliver them,to the Confufion of their OpprefTors ? Yea, when the Lordis provoked, by their going to and fro betwixt him andIdols in Adverfity and Profperity, fo that he in a mannerbolts the Door upon them for ever, that they fhould haveno more Accefs to him, Judges x. 11. The Zidonians,Amalekites and Moabites did opprefs you, and ye cried tome, and I delitered you out of their Hands, yet ye havefvjaken me, and ferred other Gods ; wherefore I will de¬liver you no more. Go, cry to the Gods that you have chofen,andand 1st them deliver you in the Day of your Tribulation. Yet,notwithftanding of all this Rigour, upon their Repentance,he fuffcrs himfelf to be importuned, and his Heart is griev¬ed (faith the Text) for the Miferies of Jfrael. Ah ! howlittle do Enemies apprehend, that they have many Legi¬ons of Thunderbolts fighting againft them. Let Enemiesbe, as the Sun at Noon, in the higher Elevation of theirPower and Strength, Prayer can chafe them many Degreesbackward. I may fay, Enemies of the People of God, attheir greateft Power, are weaker than the Wind of a Be¬liever’s Mouth, if the Eyes of the Lord be open to beholdtheir Mileries, and his Ears open to their Cry. How fada Plight are they in whofe great Defign is to make themmiferable, that though all Thrones on Earth Ihould be tothe People of God like that Throne, Rev. iv. y. Nothingbut Thunderings, Lightnings and dreadful Voices l Is thereany Caufe of Difcouragen ent, fo long as the Throne ofGrace is accelfible, efpecially in Time of Need ?ythly, There is this to keep the People of God fromturning afide, a Power within, engaging them to a clofeAdherence to God, notwithllanding of all Miferies theycan thereby fuftain. And ’tis exprelfsd in the Compdla-■ tion, 0 thou whom my Soul loveth.E N D c/ the Sermon.CA truet *6 -)A true Relation of the Sufferings andDeath of Mr. HEW MACKAILE,Preacher of the Gofpel.MR. Hew MacKaile having pafled, and impinvcnthe virtuous Means of his Education, (at the U-nivetdity of Edinburgh, and with his Un.le Mr. Hew Mac-Ka'ue, Minifter there, in whole Family he did rellde) totie Satisfadiion and good hope of all, in the Wintert od i, upon the very Turn of this lad Catastrophe, offershhnfelf to trial, (being twenty Years old) before the Piel-bytery of Edinburgh, in order to the Work of the Mini-fhy ; and being by them amply approven and licenced,and having preached at foveral times with the great Bene-h' an 1 Applaufe of all his Hearers, he did preach his foilpublick Sermon in Edinburgh, in the Old Church thereof,uix)n the Sabbath immediately preceeding that 8th ol Sep¬tember 1662, the Day affixed by the then Parliament,for the Removal of the Minifters of Edinburgh, from theirKirks, and themfelves and Families from the City, in tenDays after.His Text was in Song r. vii. In this Sermon taking oc-cahon to fpeak of the.great and many Perfocutions towhich the Church o^ God hath been, and is obnoxious;and amplifying the Point from the Perfons and Powers whohave been Inlfrumental therein, he laid, That the Churchand People of God had been perfecuted, both by a Pharaohupon the Throne, a Hainan in the State, and a Judas inthe Church ; and falling to enlarge the foveral Ways andMmner of the Perfocutions of thefe Men, and the IfTuethereof, the Cafes of Hainan and Ju las appeared, in theCouviftioa of his Adverlarics, to have fuch a near Re-femblance( 27 )feniblancc to the State and Condition of the then Rulers ofState and Church, that though he did make no Applica¬tion, yet he was reputed to be guilty thereof.Whereupon, within a few Days thereafter, there was aParty of Horfemen fent to the Place where he then lived,to wit Kirkfield,now called the Coodtrees.near to Edinburgh,lor to feize his Perfon, and make him Prilbner : But, uponalmoft no more than a Moment’s Advertifcment.he efcapesout of his Bed, and fhifting only to another Chamber,was niiraculoudy preferved from the Search then ufed,tho’ moft diligent and accurate. For this Caufe, he, be-ing neceflitated to leave that Place, retired homeward tohis fathers Houle in the Town of Idothwell, in whichParilh Mr. Matthew MacKaile his Father was Minifter,where having lurked a while, he went abroad, where he’remained about three Years, and, after his Return home,he fpent the Remainder of the Time in feveral Places, andwith much Uncertainty. Yet, during all this Space, to'the certain Know ledge and fweet Remembrance of all thatconverled with him, he was moft lerioufly exercifcd in theStudy of Piety and true Know ledge,wlierein, as he greatly-advanced above A, 11 his Equals, fo, at Length, he becamdmoft eminent an4 exemplary.While he is thus living, and employed at his Father’sHoufe, the late Troubles, arifing in the JVeJl, fall out ; andthe News thereof having alarmed him,with the reft of thatCountiy, upon the 18th of November 1666, being theMotives, and upon fuch Confiderationsas he himfelf doth fully afterward declare, he joined himfelfto thole who rofe in thefe Parts, for the aflifting of thatpoor afflidled Party, as, in their Confciences, by their Co¬venant, they thought themfelves indifpenfably obliged., ■ Vp , aild ?hcre hs j°in«1 with them, or what wasins Part or Endeavours amongft them, needs not to be re¬membered ; only this is ceftain, that.being of a thin Bo-C 2 dy,. 23 )Jy, anJ tender Conflitution, he was fa di fabled and wea¬kened with the Toil and Fatigue of continual Marching,and tempeftuous Weather, particularly at dir, where helay a confiderable Time, as if he had been dead, by Rca-fon of fainting, that he could no longer endure it : Where¬upon, on Tuesday, November 27th, he was ncce/fitated topart from them in the Morning near to the new Bridgeupon Cramend Water, and in his Way towards Liberton-Paridi, about tw'elve of the Clock, pading through BrahCsCraigs, he was taken, without Refiflance, having only afinal! ordinary Sword, by fuel) of the Countrymen as were'then fent out to view the Fields ; in which Palfage ’tisvery obfervable, that his Efcape formerly mentioned wasnot more miraculous, than his prelcnt Taking was fatal ;for it is without Queftion, had he but retained and obfervedthe leall; of that Advertency and Caution, wherein at other-times he was known to be both ready and very happy,,he might, without either Hazard or Trouble, have efcap-ed this Inconvenience ; but God, who gave him the fullExperience of his turning all things unto the good of themthat love him, did thus, by his Simplicity and Folly, pre¬pare the Way for his own Glory, and his Servant’s Joyand Viftory. «Being brought to Edinburgh, and fir ft to the Town’sCouncil-houfc, in their Search for Letters, he was imme¬diately ftript, and, there being none found, committed Pri-Jbner to the Tofbooth.Upon t he IVednefdayN^g the 28 th of November, byOrderfrom the fecret Council,he was brought before theEarl of Own'fries,hordi Sinclair, S\x Robert Murray of PrietlfieldyinA others,in order to his Examination, and being interrogate concerninghis joining and being with the IVcfl-land Forces, he, con¬ceiving himlelf not obliged by Law to be his own Accul-er, to the Deftruiftion of his Life, did plainly deny theQueftion ; but being defired to fign with his Hand what heC 2 baftC 29 )had faid, and they caufed write, though at fir ft he appear¬ed willing, yet, partly being advifed by the Lord Sinclairto beware that he fubfcribed nothing whereof the contrarywould be found true, left it might therefore fare the worfewith him, and partly fcrupling at the Terms of Rebelsand Rebellion, wherein the Queftion and his Anfwer wereconceived, and partly bethinking, that a fimple Denial may.import more than the Pleading of not guilty, he refufed tofublcribe his 'Name, which being reported to the Council,gave great Offence, and brought him under the Sulpicionof a deep Diffembler.On Thurfday, November 29th, being again called be¬fore his Examinators, upon the Confideratiofts mentioned,and for allaying the Council’s Prejudice, and preventingthe Inconvenience he might therethrough fuftain, he givesin a Declaration, under his own Hand, teftifying, that hehad been with the lVe/l-lanJ Forces, with whom he occa-fionally met, and that he had refolved to have withdiawnfrom them upon the firft Opportunity, which he was alfbabout to do when he was taken, without either offeringto flee or refill, which he defired the Council the rather tobelieve, becaufe he had told fo much to William Laurie ofBlackwood, a Perfon employed from the Lieutenant-General Dalziel to the Weft-land Forces. But notwithllandingthat W illiam Laurie did tellify this to be a Truth, yet tlieCouncil retaining former Impreffions, and apprehending,that the Prefence and confronting of fome other Prifbrcisof the Weft-land Forces, who plainly declared their Aca ili¬on to that Rifing, and their deponing concerning him, didonly move Mr. Hew to this Acknowledgment, althoughit be certainly known, that he had formed and fubfcribed thefame the Night before,they fortify and pciGft ia their Jealou-fy, and fufpecling him to have been aContriver of the 11-furredtion.and privy to all Defignsand Intelligence relatingto it, they dealt with him, with great Importunity, to be. _ ( 3® )ingenuous, and to declare who were tlie’King-leaders ofthe late Riling, and what Correfpondence, either at Homeor Abroad, was kept anent it; and this was done efpeciallyupon the Monday, December 3d, at which Time allb theBoots, a terrible Inftrument of Torture, which the Hi>-manity of our later Times hath lb much abhorred, thatnot only the Falhion of them was forgot, but all Torture*for their Caufe, difuled ; yet new ones, fuch as they are,were laid before him upon the Town Council Houfe Ta¬ble, and he certified, that if he would not confefs he Ihouldbe tortured by them To-morrow. And accordingly, uponTuefday, December 4th, he was again called before theCouncil, where, after the Examination and Torture of JohnNeilfon of Corfack, he was examined by the Earl of Ro¬thes the King’s Commiffioner, the Marquis of Montrofe,and feveral of the Privy Council, in the Town Council-Houfe. The Bifhop of St. Andrews, for the Honour ofhis Profelfion forlboth, and lome others of the Counfellors,upon more real and Chriltian Motives, having at firft with¬drawn themlelves; and being urged to confels, he declar¬ed, with a folemn Atteftation, That he knew no morethan he had already confeffed ; whereupon they ordered theExecutioner to put his Leg into the Boot, and to proceedto the Tortuie : But as he had before confelled and de¬clared ingenuoully all he knew, lb this Torture, thoughin itfelf ve' y violent and painful, by the extraordinary Com>-prellion both of Flelh, Sinews and Bones, by the Forceof Timber Wedges, and Hammer, and ufed upon him ina double Meafure, even to Ten or Eleven Strokes, with•onfiderable Intervals, as there remained no Truth con¬cealed which it could not extort, did not in the leall movehim to exprefs any Impatience or Bitteruefs, but havingfuftained it moll: conftantly and Chrillianly ; before he gotthe laft three Strokes, he protelted folemnly, in the Sight«i God, that he could fay no more, though all the Joints othis( 3'i )his BocSy were in as great Torture as that poor Leg, and de-fires to know what could hinder them to believe one of hisProfeffion, who had fo folemnly declared, as in the Sight ofGod, that he knew no more than he had told, viz. That,to the belt of his Knowledge, the Rifing of the IVeft wasmeerly occafional, upon a Difcontent betwixt the Peoplein the Steviartry of Galloway, and Sir James Turner, towhich every one did run, as their Hearts moved them,whenthey heard of it.This Torture was the Caufe why he w'as not indidtedwith the firft Ten, who being arraigned and fentenced, onIVednefday, December yth, were hanged on the Fridaythereafter, at the Crofs of Edinburgh. Many thought,that confidering his fmall Acceflion unto that Rifing, whichneither was nor could be proven to be more than what hehimfelf had freely confdled, and that he had fuffered fuchhard Meafure by Torture, and that not in order to theDifcovery of his own Crime, but the declaring of the Con¬trivers and his Complices, that the fame Ihould have pro¬cured him Favour ; but the Matter was othsrways deter¬mined •, neither was the Sermon before-mentioned foquite forgotten, tho’ ill remembered, and often repeatedin Council in thefe Words, Jhab upon the Throne, andno more; and therefore,Upon Monday the toth of December, he and other fe-ven received their Indictments of Treafon, and were ac¬cordingly fummoned to appear before the JuJlices, on Wed-nefday,December 12th; but his Torture and clofe Impriforr- ‘ment thereafter (for fo it was ordered) having call himin a Fever, whereby he was utterly difenabled to makehis Appearance,Upon Tuejday, December i ith, he gave in to the Lordsof Council his Supplication, of the Tenor following, viz.That whereas I have received an Inditfment of Treajon,vhieh was Tejlerday delivered to me, and 1 appointed to make■dnfmer thereto To-morrow, and feeing in this Matter ofthe highejl Importance, not only all the Time allowed is veryJhort, hut / am, and have been ever fnce my Torture, in agreat Diflemper and Fever, befides the great Pain and ut¬ter Inability of my Leg, which hath conflantly kept me Bed-fajl, and doth render me incapable, not only of minding- myown Defence, but wholly unable to walk or ftand, far left togo and compear before the Lord Jujlice, as I doubt not butPhyficians will teftify, if your Lordfhips will order them tovifit me, which I humbly beg ; and feeing my Acceffion to theCrimes libelled is fo very fender, being only fimple Prefence,and that not only occafional, as I did declare before your LordrJbips, but alfo in fame Sort re traded and purged, by my purpof-ed and a dual Offcoming and deferting. And, Jaftly, Seeing Iwas put to fore'Torture in order to a further Difcovery, with aPromife cf Favour in Cafe of my Ingenuity, which I then finglyufed, as in the Sight of God to the utmofi of my Knowledge ;May it therefore pleafeyour Lordjbips gracioufly to confiderthe Premijfes, ejpecially my utter Inability to make my Ap¬pearance, and to furceafe any legal Procedure againft me, inthis fo weak and extreme Condition, and to difcharge me of theforefaid Citation and Appearance, and your Lordjhips Anfwer.This Petition, and the following are therefore fet downverbatim, that both the utmoft of his Condefcendence mayappear, and the Fainting that he lb much regretes in hislaft Speech, be the better underftood : And, with the famefubfcribcd by him, there was given in an Atteftation underthe Hands of feven Chirurgeons, declaring his weak andfickly Condition.Hereupon the Council did order two Phyficians andtwo Chirurgeons, viz. Sir Robert Cuninghame, Dr. Hay,James Borthwick, and Thomas Kincaid to vilit him, andto return their Atteflation upon Soul and Confcience, be¬twixt and To-morrow at Ten of the Clock, to the Jufiices.UponSUpon Wetlnejilay, Decern. lath, the Juft ices being fet,theAtteftation of the two Doflors anti Ghirurgeons above-mentioned is produced for Mr. Hew MacKaile, and otherthree of the Prifoners indidted, and their Excufe proponedthereupon : But the Juftices finding, that the Atleilation,.not bearing Soul and Conference, did not agree to the War-'rant and Order given by the Council, and that the Phyft-cians, being called, did refufe, upon Point of Privilege, to,redlify it in thefe Terms, although they declared, that theTruth thereof was fuch, as they might fafely confirm itby Oath, they do only fuperlede their Procedure againd*Mr. Hew, and other two contained in the Atteftation, urn"til To-morrow •, and ordain John Neilfon of Corfack, tho’ •alfo contained in the Atteftation, in refpetft the fame ns to"his Part was not relevant, and the other four, to be brought ’to tire Bar, who, accordingly being brought, were that Day 'fentenced to be hanged on Friday thereafter.Thurfday, December 13th, the Juftice Court, being let,'adjourns until Tuefday thereafter, and ordains Mr. Hew,and the other two, to be peremptorily fifted that Day be-_fore the down-fitting of the Court. This Afternoon, having,obtained his Reprival, in the Thoughts of his dubious Con¬dition, he compofed the Lines following :Vita: ergo innumeris cur a rum error!bus a Ha,Claufula conjimilis per breve finit iter.Dijlrahor ambigui dubio difer'mine futi :Aeger enirr. jaceo ; frn revalefco, cado. . ‘Saturday, Decern. 8th, his Brother Mr. Matthew goesfrom Edinburgh to Glafgow, with a Letter from the LadyMarquis of Douglas, and another from the Dutchefs ofHamilton, to the Lord Commiflioner, in his favours, but'both proved ineffectual.Likeas his Coufm Mr. Matthew Mackaile (afterwardsDoctor of Medicine in Aberdeen) carried another Letter,from the Lady Marquis of Douglas, to the Archbiftiop ofSt*St. Andrews, for the fame Purpofe, bat with jio betterSucceis *.The Archbifhop s Anfvvcr to the Lady Marquis ofDouglas her Letter to him.c‘ Madam, St. Andrews, Dec. 16. *666.I was furpriied W/th the Letter by which yourLady (hip has been pleafed to honour me, and thatthe more, that your Ladyihip’s interpofing in BehalfPr!.^r,^ew Mackaile is attended with an ImpoflI-bihty, on my Part, to gratify your Ladyfhip’s De-fc lire. Nehher the Archb:fliop of Glafgow, nor I,‘c can meddle witli the Execution of the King’s Ju-Bice; it belongs to thole intrufted with it. Beforetc that young Man was remitted by the Council tothe Jullice, I told fome, related to him, that Iwould be ready to interpofe for Mitigation, he giv-“ ing Caufe; now the Opportunity is loft, and, tho’(( my Brother were-in his Cafe, I am precluded, by*c the Council’s Order, to meddle. Your Ladylhip, Itc hope, will not look upon me as delirous of any*c Man’s Blotsdj or to dilob’ige a Pfcrlon of^'our e-(c minent Quality. I lhall fend your Letter to thete Archbilhop of Glafgow: And (hall defire your La*dyfhip to believe, that, by any good Office, which“ is fit for me, I will be ready to tellify the Honour<c I bear for your Ladyffiip’s Worth, by the Endea-“ rours of. Madam,“ Your molf humble and obedient Servant,“ ST. ANDREWS.”N. B. It is obfervable, that the Bifhop was in theTown Council Houfe upon the 4th December, and heis dating his Letter at St. Andrews upon the 16th offame Month. Very poffible, his Defign of leaving E-dinburgh was to prevent Sollicitation, as it was knownhe had much to fay with the Council.December/December 18th, fitting in Judgment, the Lord RentonJuiUce Clerk, and Mr. IVilliam Murray Advocate JufticeDepute.Mr. Hein being indifferently recovered, he was broughtbefore the Juftice, with other three that were arraign¬ed with him. And iirft: the general Indictment is read,founded both on old and late A&s of Parliament, made a-gainft rifing and alTembling in Arms, and entering intoLeagues and Covenants, and renewing the Solemn Leagueand Covenant, without or againft tfje King’s Authority,declaring the fame to be Rebellion and Treafon : And’thereafter amply fubfuming upon all the A efts, Deeds andPaffages of the late Infurreiftion, with many Aggravations ;particularly, upon their taking and renewing the SolemnLeague and Covenant at Lanerk : And therefore chargingthem with, and concluding, that they ought to be punifh-ed for the fame as Traitors. After which Mr. Hew hisfpecial Indictment is read, bearing. That he had rifen andjoined with the Rebels, and was with them at /Hr, Ocbil-try and Lanerk, and feveral other Places, on Horfeback,and had kept and was at fevcral of their Rendervouzes'with a Sword. Whereupon Mr. Hew, being permitted toamwer, began his Difcourfe very conftantly and compofed-ly, declaring, that he looked upon himfelf, both from theConclufion of his Indictment, and what had happened toothers as a Man appointed by Men, and determined inhimklf, to die, whereupon he thought himfelf obliged toule the greater Ingenuity, and then affirmed, that he wasnot affiamed to avow, that he was one of that affliefted andperfecuted Party and Periuafion called Presbyterian. There¬after lie proceeded to fpeak of the Tyes and Engagementsthat were upon the Land to God ; in order thereto, andhaving commended the Inftitution, Dignity and Rleffingot rresbytenal Government, he faid, that the laft Wordscl the National Covenant had always great Weight uponhis( 3* )bis Spirit. Whereupon the King’s Advocate, interruptinghim, defired him to forbear that Difcourfe, telling him,that he was not there called in queftion for his Perfuafion,hut for the Crime of Rebellion, in riling in Arms againft'. his Majefty’s Authority, to which he dellred him to ah-fwer. Whereunto he anf.vercd, that the thing which mov¬ed him to declare himfelf as he had, and would have done,was that weighty and important Saying of our Lord Jefus,. Whofoever /ball confefs me before Men, him Jhail the Son ofMan alfo cenfefs before the Angels of God ; but he that de-nieth me and iny Words before Men, Jhail be denied beforethe Angels of God. As for the Rebellion he was chargedwith, he faid, his Accellion was only fimple Prelence witha Sword, and that occalional, as his Confelfion before theCouncil did bear. The Advocate anfwers, that not onlyPrefence, fuch as he was charged with, w'as treafonable,but all Inter communing or keeping Company with Rebels,though for the Space only of half an Hour ; and however,he faid, he was guilty of a far deeper Acceflion, and of ma¬ny other things belides thefe contained in his own Confelll-on : Whereupon the Advocate caufed read his Confelfion,and alfo the Depofitions of feveral others that were exa-. mined, in fo far as they concerned him. Mr. Hew an-fwered, that all the Depolitions read contained no morethan was in his own Confellion, nor could they make outany more againft him; and fo in EfFeft it was.The Advocate, after the fuftaining of the Indictment,having made ule of and caufed read the Confelfion of Mr.Hew, and the other Perfons accufed before the Aflize, inPlace of Probation, relerred the Matter to their Cognition.The Adize, being inclofed, gave their Verdiuna voce,and, by the Mouth of Sir William Murray of hewtoun theirChancellor, report him to be guilty of being with the Re¬bels at leveral Times and Places, and at their Rendefvouzwith a Sword, according to his fublcribed Confeflion.However, j( 37 )However, it was tliereaiter underftood, that four oi- fiveof the Affize did with Reluctancy pronounce this Verdiil,thinking Death too great a Punifiiment for Co flender aGniit, and that the major Part of the Aflize had cleanfedhim, if die Fear of an Affizc of Error had not prevailedwith them.The Verd'xft being reported, Doom was pronounced,decerning and adjudging him, and the reft, to be taken, onSaturday December 2 2d, to the Market Crofs of Edinburgh,and there to be hanged on a Gibbet till they be dead, andthat their Goods and Lands be elcheated and forfeited forhis Highnefs’s Ule. At the Hearing of which Sentence,he chearfully faid, “ The Lord giveth Life, and the Lord“ taketh, blefiedbe the Name of the Lord.” And as hewas carried back through the Guards to the Tolbooth, whenthe People made Lamentation, he anfwered, “ Though“ Men cut us off, God will receive us ; truft in God,“ truft in God.”Being come to his Chamber, he immediately addreftldhimfelf to God by Prayer, with great Enlargement ofHeart, for himfelf and his Fellow Prilbners condemnedwith him. Being afterwards asked how his Leg was, whichwas tortured, he anfwered merrily, “ The Fear of my“ my Neck now maketh me forget my Leg.” Thereafterhe faid to another Friend, “ O how good News, to be“ within four Days Journey to enjoy the Sight of Jefus“ Chrift ! and protefted he was not lb cumbered how todie, as he had been fometime to preach a Sermon.” Tofome Women, lamenting for him, he faid, “ That hisCondition, though he was young, and in the Budding of“ his Hopes and Labours in the Miniftry, yet it was not*■ to be mourned for ; for, faid he, one Drop of my Blood,through the Grace of God, may make moe Hearts con¬trite, than many \ ears Sermons might have done.”DThisThis A'ternoen he fupplicate the Council for Liberty tohis Father to come and vifit him. which being granted, hisfather the next Night came to him. The fir ft Meetingwas very fad ; and notwithftanding that, according both to 'the Teftimony of his Parents, and Knowledge of all hisRelations, he was a moft obedient Son, yet thefe inevitableInfirmities which are incident to the belt of Men, and can¬not but furnifh fad Convidtions, when confidered in thePower and pure Light of the fpiritual Law of God, didgreatly trouble him in the Remembrance of the Fifth Com¬mandment. The Paflage was thus. After Prayer his Fa¬ther faid unto him, “ Hugi, I called thee a good Olive-“ tree, of fair Fruits, and now a Storm hath deftroyed the“ Tree, and his Fruits and Branches.” He anfwered*“ That his Father’s too good Thoughts of him had afflicl-“ cd him.” His Father faid, “ He was perfuaded, God“ was viliting not his own Sin, but his Parents Sin, upon“ him : So that he might fay, Our Fathers have finned^“ and vje have borne-their. Iniquity.” ■ He laid alfb, “ I“ have finned ; thou, poor Sheep, what haft thou done ?”Mr. Hew anfwered, with many Groans, “ That, through“ coming fcort of keeping the Fifth Commandment, he“ had come fhort of the Prcunife, that his Days fhould be“ prolonged in the Land of the Living ; and that God’s“ Controverfy with him was for overvaluing his Children,“ efpecially himfelf.”OnThurfday the 20th of December, more from the Im¬portunity of Friends than his own Inclination, he gave into the Privy Council a Petition, as follows :‘That whereas, upon Tuefday lafl I was indifled andcondemned, for the treajonable Deeds contained in the gene¬ral and Jpedal Indi&ment exhibited again]} me ; in the whichfpecial Indictment, containing my whole Accejfion to the faidCrimes, there is only libelled Prefence in Jeveral Places, withan ordinary Sward, likeas my own Confejfon, which is thenakednaM Truth, doth declare, how the fame vjas cccafional; andfiring that it was alfo in fame Sort purged and retraced, hmy withdrawing and defecting with the firfl Convenience,whereby not only my Cafe appears to be different from that'of others, but alfo as favourable as poffbly can be, next tohnocency itfelf •, likeas the fame appeared no lefs to manyof thefe Gentlemen who were upon my dfftze : And facingthe Torture I full aired, and the Ingenuity 1 then ujed, asin the Sight of God, to the utmofl of my Knowledge, defervpthat Favour that was at that time infmuated, and that it isexpelled that his Majejly, (whole Mercy I beg) accordingto bis greet Cle ’ency, and the mojl ufaal Pratfice in the likeCafes, will irterpofi his Mercy for the Refcue of many, who■are equally with me involved. May it therefore pleafi your■Lorflips gracioujly to conftder the Premiffes, and to par¬don my great Rafhnefs and Precipitancy, and therefore toindulge fuch a Reprival as your Lordjhips fall think conve¬nient, untill his Majefly'sgraciousPleafureanent the Premiffes{hall be fully known, at leaf till the Commiffmer his Gracedo return, and your Lotdjhip's An finer. The Words mark¬ed in this Petition by a different Character, were the A-mendments ofhisFrien is AffecHon, which they were ad-vifed to put in by fome Members of the Privy Council, totthom the Copy of it had been prefented immediately be¬fore the Downfitting of the Council, and thereupon thePetition, being tranferibed, was in fo great Hafte prefentedunto him to fubferibe it, that he got it not read : How¬ever the Petition was both difreliihed and refufed by theCouncil. The Truth is, fome of his Friends, exceedingzealous of his Safety, had moved to feveral Members ofshe Council, That thcDeclaration might be tendered to him,and fome Time permitted him to advife thereanent; whichMotion, tis like, was attended with fome fnfinuations,that probably he might be induced to fubferibe it; but asthe Motron was inefFe&ual, wlthoftt a Warrant- under hisD 2own, r ( 4° )own Hand, fo even the Authors thereof do bear him Wit-nefs of his politive, fixed, and often declared Refolutian,not to fubfcribe it, at the highell Rate : Likeas, upon femeSurmifes to the contrary, he thought it neceflary, for his 'own Vindication, to leave it under his Hand, that theabove-mentioned Refolution was, from his own properKnowledge and Motive, without the Affiftance of the leaftDilfuafive from any other Perfbn.During his Abode in Prifon, the Lord was very graciouf-ly prefent with him, both to Main him againft the Fearof Death, and to difpel all thefe Over-cloudings of Ter¬ror, unto which the Frailty of FJelh and Blood had fome-time expofed the heft of Men ; and alfio in affifting himin Prayer and Praifes, to the Admiration of all his Hear¬ers, especially on the Tiurfda/s Night, December 20th,w hereon, being fet at Supper with his Fellow Prilbners andIris Father, and one or two befides, he requefted his FeL:low Pi ilbners, faying merrily, “ Eat to the full, and che-“ rift your Bodies, that we may be a fat Chrijlmas Pie to“ the Prelates.” After Supper, in Thankfgiving, he burffforth in blefling God that had made him fuch a Fool asto come to that Prifon ; and, after many gracious Words,continued faying: “ Many Croiies have come in our“ Way, and wrought but weakly upon us, but here is a“ Crols that hath done more good than all the many that“ befel us before.” Then, lamenting the Condition of theChurch of God with much Earnelfnefs, he ufed that Ex¬clamation in the laft o( Daniel, What, Lord, Jhall be the.End of thefe IVonders ?The laf Night of his Life, being Friday December 2 id,he proponed and anfwered himfelf feveral Quedions, tothe'drengthening of his Fellow Prifbners, and great Re-frefhing of all his Hearers. As ifl he inquired ; “ flow“ fitould he, going dom the Tolbooth through a Multitude“ of gazing People, and Guards of Soldiers, to a ScaiFoidl“ and. C 41 ) • •_ “ and Gibbet, overcome the Imprefllon of all thefe ?” Towhich he anfwered ; “ By conceiving a deeper Impreflion, “ of a Multitude of Angels, who are alio Onlookers ; ac-cording to that, we are a gazing Stock to the World, An-gels and Men. \Jl, For the Angels, rejoicing at our" good Gonfcflion.are prefent to convey and carry ourSouls,“ as the Soul of Lazarus, unto Abraham'% Bofom, not toreceive them, for that is Jefus Chrift’s Work alone, whowill welcome them to Heaven himfelf, with the Songs' “ of Angels and bleffed Spirits ; but the Angels are mini-“ firing Spirits, always ready to ferve and ftrengthen all“ dying Believers, idly. As Stephen faw the Heavens“ opened, and Jefus Banding on the Right Hand of God,“ who then (aid, Lord Jefus receive my Spirit, fo (faid he)“ do I believe that Jefus Chrift is alfo ready to receive theSouls of his dying Sufferers.”idly He inquired, “ What is the Way for us to con-“ ceive of Heaven, who are haftin^ into it, feeing the“ Word faith, Eye hath not feen, nor Ear heard, neither“ hath entered into the Heart of Man the Things -which“ God hath prepared for them that love him ?” Whereuntohe anfwered, “ That the Scripture helps us two Ways to“ conceive of Heaven ; the firfi is by way of Similitudes,“ as in that, Rev. xxi. where Heaven is held forth by the“ Reprcfentation of a glorious City there deferibed but“ !'n the fame Place it is alfo termed tire Bride ; but, Ohow unlike are thefe two, a Bride and a City ! which“ doth clearly evidence th^ Infufficiency and vafl; Difpro-“ portion of all fuch Similitudes and therefore he add-ctn, “ The Scripture furnifheth yet a more excellent Wayto conceive of Heaven, and that is firft by conceivingthe Love of Chrift to us, even what is the Breadth^,“ and Length, and Depth, and Height, and the Immenfe-nefs of that Love of Chrift, which paflbth Knowledge“ which is alfo the higheft and lincereft Motive of Praife& 3 “ unto“ t0 that loved us, and wajhed ur from aur Sins inhis own Blood, and hath made us Kings and Prisfls untoGod and his Father, to him he Glory and Dominion forever and ever, Amen, idly. By holding forth the Loveof the Saints to Jefos Cbrift, and teaching us to love“ him In Sincerity, which is the very Joy and Exultationof Heaven, Rev.v. \2.IV0rthy is the Lamb that was fainto receive Power, and Riches, andlVifdom, and Strength,and Honour, and Glory, and Blefing. And no other“ thing than the Soul, breathing forth Love to Jefos Chrift,“ can rightly apprehend the Joys of Heaven.”The lafl Words which he ipoke at Supper were in theCommendation of Love above Knowledge ■, laying, “ O“ but Notions of Knowledge,, without Love, are ofimall Worth, evanifhing in nothing, and very danget-“ ous.” After Supper, his Father having given Thanks,he read the 16th Pfalm, and his fir ft Words thereafterw ere, “ If there were any thing in the World fadly andu unwillingly to be left, it were the reading of the Scrip-“ tures. Jfaid I fall not Jce the Lord, even the Lord in“ the Land of the Living ; but this needs not make us“ fad, for where we go the Lamb is tire Book of Scrip-“ ture, and the Light of that City, and there is Life, e-“ ven the River of the Water of Life, and living Springs.’'To this he added may excellent Oblervations, and mak¬ing mention of the 23d Verfe of the xxxi. Pfalm, 0 lovethe Lord all ye his Saints, he added, “ That where Love“ was, it was fo operative, that it made Flefh Spirit, and“ where it was not, there Spirit was made Flefh There-aftei he fting a Part of the fame Pfalm.Supper being ended, he calls fmilingly for a Pen, fay¬ing, “ It was to write his Teffament,” wherein he onlyordered fome few Books which he had to be re-deliveredto feverai Ptrfons.HeHe went to Bed a little after Eleven of the Clock, and•having flept well till Five in the Morning, he arofe andcall-ied to his Comerade John JVodroin, faying pleafantly, “ Up“ Jsbn, for you are too long in Bed ; you and I look notlike Men going this Day to be hanged, feeing we ly folortg.“ Thereafter he faid to him, in the Words of lfat ah, xlii.Verfe 24. “ Who gave Jacob for a Spoil, and Ifrael to the“ Robbers ? Did not the Lord, he againjl whom we have“ finned, for they would not walk in his Ways, neither were“ they obedient unto his Law, &c. And I think, John,“ (faid be) I have not known it, nor do I lay it to Heart,!“ as it is faid in the End of the ayth Verle. But John,1“ (faith he) for all this be not afraid, but read the 43dChapter, Verfe 1. 2. for all will go well with us. John* “ faid to him, you and' I will be chambered Ihortly in1 “ Heaven befide Mr. Robert Jon” He anfwered, “ I fear,1 “ John, you bar me but, becaufe you was more free bo-! “ fore the Council than 1 was, but I (hall be as free as1 “ any of you upon the Scaffold.” Before Break fall he' “ faid, “ He had got a clear Ray of the Majefly of tire‘ “ Lord, after his awaking, but it was a little again over*1 “ clouded.” Thereafter he prayed and attefted the Lord,' “ That he had devoted himfelf to the Service of God in' “ the Miniftry of ihe Lord Je us, and the Edification ofi “ Souls very early ; adding, albeit I have not been fb1 “ with my God, yet thou haft made with me an everlaft-1 “ ing Covenant, ordered in all Things and fure ; this is* “ all my Defire, Joy and Salvation, albeit thou makeI “ me not a Houfe to grow. Now, Lord, we come to! “ thy Throne, a Place we have not been acquainted with;’ “ earthly Kings, Thrones, ’ have Advocates againft poor1 “ Men, but thy Throne liath Jefus, an Advocate for us.' “ Our Supplication this Day is not to be free of Death,' “ nor of Pain in Death, hut that we may witnefs before' “ many Witnefles a good Coufeflion.”Hi:' • rj* v JHis Father coming to him that Morning to bid hirfarewell, his la ft Words to him were, after Prayer and :little Difcourfe, “ That his Suffering would do morehur.to the Prelates, and be more edifying to God’s People]than if he were to continue in the Miniftry for twenty“ Years.” And then he defired his Father to leave him'elfe he would but trouble him ; “ And I deftre it of you!laid he, as the belt and laft Service you can do me, tvgo to your Chamber and pray earneftly to the Lord tcbe with me on that Scaftold; for how to carry there is“ my Care, even that I may be ftrengthened to endure tc“ the End.”About two of the Clock in the Afternoon he was carri¬ed to the Scaffold with other five that fuffered with him,where he appeared, to the Conviction of all that former¬ly knew him, with a fairer, better, and more ftaid Coun¬tenance, than ever they had before obferved. Being cometo the Foot of the Ladder, he directed his Speech North-tvard to the Multitude ; and prem.fing, “ That as his“ Years in the World had been but few, fo his Words at“ that Time Ihould not be many.” He fpoke to the Peo¬ple the Speech and Teftimony which he had before writ¬ten and fubftribed.Having done fpeaking to the People, who heard himwith great Attention, lie fung a Part of the xxxi. Pfalm ;and then prayed with fuch Power and Fervency, as forcedmany to weep bitterly. Having ended, he gives his Cloakand Hat from him ; and when he turned himfelf, and tookhold of the Ladder to go up, he .aid with an audible Voice,“ I care no more to go up this Ladder and over it, than“ if I were going home to my Father’s Houfe.” And, aslie went up, hearing a great Noife amongft the People, hecalled down to his Fellow Sufferers, faying, “ Friends and■“ Fellow Sufferer?, be not afraid , every Step of this Lad-dcr is a Degree nearer Heaven.” Then, having fcatedhimfelf( 45 )himfeir thereon, he faid, “ I do partly believe, that the“ Nobles, Counfellors, and Rulers of the Land, would have“ uled fome Mitigation of this Punilhment, had they not“ been inliigated by the Prelates ; fo our Blood lyes prin-“ cipally at the Prelates Door. But this is my-Comfortl“ now, that I know my Redeemer livcth, and that he Jhafl“ /land at the latter Day upon the Earth; and though, af-“ ter my Skin, Worms de/lroy this Body, yet tn my F'e/h Jhall“ 1 fee God-, whom 1 jhall fie for myfelf and mine Eyes“ /ball behold (pointing to his Eyes) and not another, tho'" my Reins be confumed in me. And now I do willinglyr‘ lay down my Life for the Truth and Caufe of God, thel“ Covenants and Work of Reformation, which were once“ counted the Glory of this Nation. And it is for endea-“ vouring to defend this, and to extirpate that bitter Roofof Prelacy, that I embrace this Rope,” (the Executioner(putting the Rope about his Neck.) Then, hearing the(People weep, he faid, “ Your work is not to weep, but to'“ pray that we may be honourably borne through ; and“ blclTed be the Lord, that fupports me. Now as I have“ been beholden to the Prayers and Kindnefs of many,1“ fmee my Imprifonment and Sentence, fo I hope you“ will not be wanting to me now, in this lad Step of my'“ Journey, that I may witnefs a good Confeflion. Andj‘‘ that you may know the Ground of my Encouragement“ in this Work, and what my Hope is, I will read to yoif)“ the lall Chapter of the Bible.” And, having read it, he(laid, “ Here you lee the Glory that is to be revealed uport“ mc> a Pure R '^er of Water of Life, and fo forth, (read“ die Place) where this Throne of God is, and the Lamb“ is in it, where his Servants ferve him and fee his Face,“ and his Name is in their Foreheads, and the Lord Godgiveth them Light, and they (hall reign for ever andever , and here you fee my Accefs to my Glory andtl“ Reward. Let him that is a-tbirfl come, and whofoaver“ will( 4^ }“ to/7/ let him t'akd of the Water of Life freely. And hen“ I011 ^ce a!<o my Welcome, The Spirit and the Bride fA“ Then he fa id, “ I have one Word more tlay to myFriends, (looking down to the Scaffold) WhcJ“ y°u •? fou need neither lament me, nor be afhameot me in this Condition ; for I may make u(c of tha“ Exprellion of Cbrift’s, / go to your Father and my Fc.“ t her, to your God and my God, to your King and nrKing, to the bleifed Apoflles and Martyrs, and to tlii‘‘ City of the living God, the heavenly Jerufalem, to atinnumerable Company of Angels, to the general Afleral“ bly and Ciiurcli of the Firil-born, and to God the Ju-ig“ of all, and to the Spirits of juft Men made perfedl, anl“ t0 Jefus the Mediator of the nawConvenant; and fo I bit“ you all farewell : For God will be more comfortable tcyou tnan I Could be, and he will allb now be more re'frelhing to me than you can be. Farewell, farewell in the“ Lord.” Then theNapkin being put on his Face, he prayeca Space within himfelf; after which he put up theCloth froirhis Face with his awn Hands, and faid, “ He had one Wort“ more to fay, and that was to (hew them the Comfort he“ in Ids Death, laying, 1 hope you perceived no A(-“ teration or Difcouragement in my Countenance and“ Carriage ; and as it may be your Won ier, lb I profels“ it is a Wonder to myfelf and I will tell you the Reafon¥ of it : Confider the Juftnels of my Gaufe ; this is my!Comfort, which was laid of Lazarus when he died, thalV the Angels did carry his Soul into /Ibrahams Bolbm : So“ that as there is a great Solemnity here, ofa Confluenceof People, a Scaffold, a Gallows, and People looking outat Windows ; Ib is there a greater and more folemn Pre-?< paration in Heaven, of Angels, to carry my Soul ta“ Chrift’s Rolbm. Again, this is my Comfort, that it is“ to come in Chrift’s Hands, and he will prelent it blames“ lefs and faultlels. to. the Father, and then Ih&H I be ever“ withC 47 3p with the Lord. And now I leave off to fpeak any more1 ‘ to Creatures, and turn my Speech to thee, O Lord !'1 And now I begin my Intercourfe with God which fhallr never be broken ofF. Farewell Father and Mother,P Friends and Relations; farewell the World and all De-“ lights ; farewell Meat and Drink ; farewell Sun, Moon‘ and Stars : Welcome God and Father, welcome fweet“ Lord Jefus the Mediator of the new Covenant, wel-come blelTed Spirit )f Grace and God of all Gonfolation,f welcome Glory, welcome eternal Life, welcome Death.”(Then he defired the Executioner not to turn him over,tontil he fliould put over his own Shoulders himfelf, which,laiter praying a little within himfelf, lie did, faying, aV Lord! into thy Hands I commit my Spirit; for thou!*i‘ haft redeemed my Soul, Lord God of Truth.” Thus,ai the Twenty-fixth Year of his Age, he died, as he lived,’lin the Lord.p’he laft Speech and Teftimony of Mr. HewL Mackaile, Preacher of the Gofpel andProbationer for the Miniftry, at his Death,in Edinburgh> December 22. 1666.BEING, by a great Surprifal of Providence, thus ftagedbefore the World, in a Matter of fo univerfal Con¬cernment to all that fear God and delire to be ftedfaft inliis Covenant, I could not forbear to leave behind me thislanding Teftimony, concerning the Occafion and Ufes.hereof, for the Glory of God, in the Vindication of mytProfelfion from the Afpeiflons caft thereon by Men, and>tbe Edification of thofe, by my Death, to whom I had•devoted my Life in the Work of the Miniftry.I have efteemed the Government of this Church byVresbytery to be among the chief of the Ordinances of Je¬fus\/. c 48 )fus Chrift, which by his Blood he hath purchafed, andafcended up on high to beftow as a Gift upon it; as beingthe very Gofpel Miniftry in its Simplicity and Purity fromthe Inventions of Men, and fo the Mean by which otherOrdinances are adminiftered, and the moft fundamentalTruths made effectual in the Hearts of his People ; andtherefore that it ought, with that fame Carcfulnefs, to becontended for ; Experience, both of the having and want¬ing of it, hath given it this Epiftle of Commendation, ibas it may be both known and read of all Men. Which isallb true of the folemn Engagements of the Nation there¬to, by the National Covenant, and folemn League andCovenant, which I have efteemed, in their Rife and Renewing, pregnant Performances of that Promile, Ifa. xliv.5. where it is evident, that, where Church Reformationscome to any Maturity, they arrive at this Degree of fay¬ing, / am the Lord's, and fubferibing with the Hand untothe Lord. So was it in the Days of the Reforming Kingsof Judah, and, after the Relloration from the Captivity,in the Days of Nehemiah. This fame Promile did theLord Jefus make Yea and Amen to us, when he redeem¬ed us from Ipiritual Babylon; which is lb much the great¬er Evidence,, that, tljefe were the very Motions of God’sSpirit in our firil Reformers, that they were exprelsly de-figned again(1 the greateft Motions of the Spirit of Dark-nefs in Antichrill and his Supports, and again!! the greateftConfirmations that ever thefe Abominations attained bythe Decrees of the Council of 'Trent, and that bloody Bondcalled the Holy League. And therefore whatever Indignityis dope unto thefe Covenants, I do cileem to be no leftthan doing Defpite unto the Spirit of Grace, in his mofteminent.exerting of himfelf; but efpccially declaring a-gainft the fame, as flowing from a Spirit of Sedition andRebellion, to be a Sin of the fame Nature with theirs, whoaferibed Chrift his carting out of Devils to Beelzebub \ andthatithat with this Aggravation, that thefe Scribes and Phari-ifees came never the Length of profeding Chrift, and fub-imitting themfeives to him and his Ways.But we are condemned to Death upon the Account of(this Covenant, for adhering to the Duties therein fvvorn to,jby fuch as once did as much themfeives as we have done,and (bine of them more than fome of us. Which Con-diderations have moved me to great Fears of God’s Wrathjagainll the Land, according to the Curfe that we are boundMinder, if we Ihould break, that Covenant, and, in the Feardof it, many times to pour out my Soul before the Lord..And as foon as I heard of a Party up in Arms in behalf ofithe Covenant, ( all other Doors being Ihut, whereby the.'Bedrefs of the manifed Violations of it might be obtained,land thefe, bymanifcli and unheard of Violence, obtrudedupon others ) to go along with them, being bound by that^Covenant againfl deteftablc Indifferency and Neutrality inIthis Matter, and to efteem every Injury done to any en¬gaged in this Covenant, upon account of it, as done to my-Ijfelf: Very Confcience of Duty urged me to this, againdijfome Reludtancy of Fear of what might follow. Upon the(fame Reafons, at Lanerk, with the reft, I declared my Ad--i herence to the Covenant, by my lifting up of my Hand,3 after the Articles thereof were read.I. And here I cannot but, with Grief of Heart, acknowledgeT my fainting in a Day of Trial, that, being engaged with5 them upon fuch Accounts, I many times in Fear defigned;>:to withdraw, and at length did ; which as it was the Oc-| calion of my falling into the Hands of the Enemy, fb I15 think, among other things, it was the Caule why God de-. livered me into their Hands. Upon the fame Fear, in allii my Examinations, I have denied my Engagement withH them, and endeavoured to vindicate myfelf, by aflertingI the real Defigns I had to part from them, and have utterlyi caft away the Glory of a Teftimony, which my very being| in their Company, as a Favourer of the Ends of the Co-E venant.4 £ 5° )venant, and as one wilfing to contribute my beft Endea-vours for the promoving of them, but efpeciatiy my de-olaring for the Covenant, did bear unto the Truth and:Ordinances of JefosChrift, againft this untowardGeneration.'This I confefs to be no lefs than a denying of jefus Chrift,and a being a foamed of !iis Words before Men; but I hopelive Lord, who remembereth that we arc but frail Dull:,;foall not lay it to my Charge, but, according to his Faith-hilnefs and Grace, will forgive me, who, by this publickContefoon, take to myfolf Shame and Confulion of Face,and Hee to the Propitiation offered to all Sinners in JefuSChriiL And thele things as they have procured this Deathunto me, as an Aift of God’s Juftice, fo they mind me ofother Evils in mine own Heart, that have been the Source©1 this my Lnwillingnels to take on Chrift’s Crofs : MyHeart hath nut ftudied to maintain that Spiiituality inwalking with God, and edifying Exemplarinefs with othersthat became one that had received the Firfl-fruits of the*Spirit, and aimed at the Minillry of tire Gofpel, Jiving inTimes of fo much Calamity for the Church of God, andparticular AfiMions as to myfelf. If I had fpent my Daysin groaning-after my Houfe from Heaven, would I havefliifted fo fair an Occafion of being clothed with it ? Alas,that I have loved my Lord and Mailer Jefus Chrift folittle ! Alas, that I have done fo little Service to him, thatI have io little Labour to follow me to my everlaflingKelt ! This I fpeak to thofe efpecially with whom I havefamiliarly converted in my Pilgrimage, that, teeing the Lordwill not grant me Lite to teflify my real Reformation ofthefo things, my Acknowledgment at Death may have In¬fluence upon them, to fludy not only Godlinete, but thePower of it.As I acknowledge, that I have not been free and inge¬nuous in thefo Particulars forementioned, fo in other things,wherein I interponed that holy Name of God, as to thejaot being upon the Contrivance of this rifing in Arms, norprivyprivy to any Relolution there; nent, nor confcious of anyIntelligence at home or abroad concerning it, I was moltingenuous : As they have wronged me much, who faid,that I denied, upon Oath, that which they were able tomake out againit me, or knew to be Truth ; but none at*ledge Perjury againft me, but fuch as are fo manifeftlyguilty of it before the World, that their Tongues in fuchlAiledgances are no Slander.Although I be judged end condemned as a Rebel amongftfaen, yet I hope, even in order to this Adtion, to be accep-tted as loyal before God. Kay, there can be no greaterAft of Loyalty to the King, as the Times now go, than lorevery Man to do his utmoft for the Extirpation of that a-bominable Plant of Prelacy, which is the Bane of theThrone and of the Country : Which if it be not done, theThrone lhall never be eftablilhcd in Righteoufnefs, untilthefeWicked be removed from before it. Sure I am, thelcj1 who arc now condemned as Rebels againft him by them,are fuch as have fpent much Time in Prayer for him, and, do more fmccrely wiih his Standing, and have endeavour¬ed it more by this late Aftion fo much condemned, thanthe Prelates by condemning them to Death.This DiMer hath heightened greatly the AffifHons ofour Church, and ought to teach all of you to drink theWine of Aftonilhment. Ye have not known Tribulationtill now : Now we judge them happy that are fallen aileert^nd removed far away, and know that God hath been tak¬ing away his Servants from the Evils that were to come;Know that God’s Defign is to make many Hearts contrite,that have been formerly too whole, and have not lament-|i ed Efficiently the Removal of his Ordinances and Miniftry[! aud % Reproach rubbed upon the Work of Reformation!J Beware that your Sorrow be not a momeniany Motion ofjj common Compaihon, that evanilheth when, it may beitnere is fome Intei million in this violent Courfe of Ibcftdmg innocent Blood. Labour to have a conftant Impreffion^ 2 that( 52 ) ^that may facriticc the Heart; nay, ye would live much in.ApprehenGon of approaching Judgment. Certainly, thewithdrawing of many from us, and not contributing theirHelp to the great Work they were engaged to as well aswe, the general Rifing againlt us in many Places of theCountry, but above all this open (bedding of the Blood ofthe Saints, which involved! the Land tn the Guiltinefs ofad the righteous Blood (bed from the Foundation of theWorld, have made Scotian l fit Fuel for the Fire of God’sWrath. I can fay nothing concerning Times to come,but this, AH things jhall work together for Good to them thatlove GeJ, and fo this prefent Difpenfatton ; and they (ballhave moft Comfort in this Promile, who are mo ft willingthat fuch Afrliftions as we are brought to be the Way thatGod chuleth to work their Good.Commit wholly the Management of all Matters to God,and make it your entire Study, Night and Day, to keepyour very Garments clean. It is hard, in Times of lb ge¬neral Corruptions, not to be defiled one way or other ; befree of the Sin, as you would be of the Judgments, whichwill certainly be fuch as will make all the Churches know,that God is the Searcher of the Hearts and Trier of theReins, Rev. ii. 23. and fo will not be mocked by thefePietences whereby Men colour their going along in an evilCourfe, from the real Love that they have to a prelentWorld. If naked Prelence, amongft them who are efteemedRebels by Men, be fufficient to engage them in the Crimeand Punifhmcnt, (for that is all the Ground of my Con¬demnation) (ball not God be much more zealous of hisown Glory, again!! all who fo much as feem to go alongwith this Courfe of Backlliding.As a good Mean and Encouragement to all the Dutiesof our Time, labour to be rooted and grounded in the-Loveof Jefus Chrift : This will be tender of any thing thatmay have the lead: Reflexion upon him, his Words orWorks, and will prompt the Soul to zealous appearing forC T3 )him at the great eft Hazard, and to as much WiHinfgnefsto die for him, as to live that they may glorify him, Amj,.for the Encouragement of you all in this Matter, I do de¬clare, that, ever fince the Day of my coming into F^ifoV),God hath kept my Soul free from all Amazement or Fearof Death; that, fince my Indiftment and Sentence, Godhath fo manifefted himfelf at fiaveral Times, that Ik hafhlifted up my Soul above Prelates, Principalities and Powers,Death and Hell, to rejoice and be glad in his Salvatioft,and from my Senil to account him worthy, for whom', inthis his Cairle, I fhojld undergo the greateft Shame <JrPain, and fo the aflfured Hopes of eternal Communion with•him in Heaven ; and that nothing hath more brangled myPeace, than Ihifting an open and free Tefiimony, be foiemy Examinators, to the Work that I was engaged in.I do freely pardon all that have Acceflion to my Blood,and wiih that it be riot laid to the Charge of this finfulLand, blit that God would grant Repentance to our Ru¬lers, that they may obtain the fame Reconciliation withhim whereof I myfelf do partake. Truly, I believe marfyof them, if not inftigated by the cruel Prelates, (at whole.Door our Blood doth principally ly) would have ufed mo'eMitigation : But that Relu&ancy of Mind, to Ihed Blood,will Be fo far from vindicating of them, that, upon thecontrary, it will be a Witnels againft there in the Day ofthe Lord.I heartily fubmit myfelf to Death, as that which Gtidi -bath appointed to all Men becaufe of Sin, and to this par-i tkular Way of it, as deferved by my particular Sifts. Iprarfe God for this fatherly Chaftifement, whereby he hathmade me in Part, and will make me perfectly, Partakerof his Holinefs. I glorify him that called me forth to fuf--fer for his Name and Ordinances, and the fiolemn Engage¬ments of the Land to him, and that he hath taken thisWay to take me away from the Evil to come. The Lordtiefsall his poor afflkfted groaning People that are behind.E 3 Here^Hereafter I will not talk with Flefh and Blood, nor thinkon the World’s Confolations : Farewell all my Friends',whole Company hath been refrefbful to me in my Pilgri¬mage ; I have done with the Light of the Sun and Moon.Welcome eternal Life, everlalting Love, everlafting Praife,cverlafting Glory ; Praife to him that fits upon the Throne,and to the Lamb for ever. T^hough I have not been withthee as I ought to have keen in the Houle of my Pilgri¬mage, yet thou had made with me an everiajling Covenant,ordered in all things and fire. And this is all my Salva¬tion, and all my Defire. Bids the Lord, O my Soul,that hath pardoned all my Iniquities in the Blood of hisSon, and healed all my Dileafes. Bids him, O all ye hisAngels that excel in Strength, ye Minifters that do hisPkafure. Blcfs the Lord, O my Soul. Hallelujah.Edinburgh Tolbooth, HEW MACKAILE.Dccem. 22. 1666.I have heard, that fbme of the Prifbners are willing tofive their Lives, by taking the Declaration, that is, byabjuring the Work and Cauie for which they adventuredtheir Lives ; which if they do, our Blood ihall bear Wit-nefs againft them in the great Day of God ; and God (halllb punifh lome of them in this Life, that they fitall curiethe Day that ever they Ihifted to die on a Scaffold.HEW MACKAILE.Follows the Declaration he refufed to takeI do fine ersip affirm and declare, that I judgeit unlawful to Subjefts, upon Pretence of Reformation, orother Pretence whatfoever, to enter into Leagues and Co¬venants, or to take up Arms againjl the King, or thofecommiffimed by him ; and that all thofe Gatherings, Convo¬cations, Petitions, Proteflations, and eredling and keepingof Council-Tables, that were ufed in the Beginning, and forcarrying on of the late Troubles, were unlawful and fediti-aus ; and particularly that thofe Oaths, whereof the one wascommonly called The National Covenant, {as it was faiornji and explained in the Year 1638, and thereafter) and theU other entituled A Solemn League and Covenant, viere and!are in themfelves unlawful Oaths, and were taken by andijnpfed upon the Subjects of this Kingdom, againjl the fun-hi damental Laws and Liberties of the fame : And that there(I lyeth no Obligation upon me, or any of the Subjetts, fromthe faid Oaths, or either of them, to endeavour any Changeii or Alteration of the Government, either in Church or State,ki as it is now ejlablifhed by the Laws of the Kingdom.1. Abstracts from the Hiftory of the Suffer¬ings of the Author of the above Sermon,and of Mr. Matthew MacKaile, his Father,Minifter at Bothwel, in the Presbytery ofHamilton.Nov. 6th 1662, the Privy Council begin a Procefs a-t gainft Sir James Stewart, Jate Provoft of Edinburgh, andt his Son, upon a moft groundlefs and malicious Informati-: on, which, when dipped into, came to nothing : How-1 ever, I (hall infert what I find of it in the RegHfers, as at Specimen of the Trouble Gentlemen were now brouaht to,1 who were Presbyterians, and Favourers of them. Infor-r mation being given, That Mr. Hew MacKaile, Chaplaint to Sir James Stuart of Kirkfield, did of late, in a Sermonpreached in one of the Kirks in Edinburgh, moft malici-> oufly inveigh againft and abufe his Sacred Majefty, andthe prefent Government in Church and State, to thegreat Offence of God, and Stumbling of the People ; andthat the faid Sir James Stewart, and Walter Stewart his fe-cond Son, were prefent when the faid Sermon was preach¬ed, at lead: were certainly informed thereof; yet, notwith-ftanding thereof, did entertain him in their Family : Asalfo, that the faid Walter Stewart has emitted fbme Speechestending towards Sedition, efpecially that, within thefe fewWeeks, he, at the Smithy of ——, upon the Occafionof( ^ )of a 'Difcourfe anent pabJick Differences, faid, Tliat, beforeBulinefles went as they are going, a Hundred tboufand inthe Three Kingdoms would lofe their Lives. ThereforeSfacers are ordered to cite them both before the Council,again ft the i ith inftant.. November nth, reported, That Sir James Stewart andIris Son had been cited to anfwer this Day , and it beinginformed by fome of the Members, that Sir James canclear himfdfj the Lords appoint the Earl of Morton andLord Tar bet to examine Sip James, staid report. WalterStewart his Son appeared, and denied the fbrefaid Speechescharged againft him. Witneffes being called andexamined,the Council find he uttered fome things fending to Sediti¬on, and imprifon Ihitt in the Tolbooth till further Order.Every thing which favoured of a Senfe of Liberty, orexprefted any Dillike at Bifhops, was now reckoned fedi-tious Speaking. This excellent and religious young Gentle¬man was foon dilmifled, and died not very long afterthis, not without fbme very remarkable Fore-notices of hisDiftolution, to himfelf and excellent Father •, and, hav¬ing run fall, came foon to his eternal Prize. We (ballafterward hear of worthy Nit. Hew Mac Katie, and iind himfealing the Truth with his Blood after Pent land. It was,as I take it, after this faithful and free Sermon, whereink was pretended he reflected on the King, becaufe irepreached the Scriptural Doctrine upon Church Govern¬ment, that he went abroad, and aocomplihed himtel, in■travelling for fbme Years. When he came home, he wasthe more qualified to be the Object of the Prelates Spite.Upon the 18th of December, the Juftice Clerk and Ju-ftice Depute have before them Mr. Heo.t> MaeKaiie, amifeven others who pronounced Sentence of Death uponthem, and ordered them to be hanged, at the Crofs of a-dinburgh, December 2 ad.All of them, fave three, were executed that Day ; andHioft Part of their Speeches are already more than oncepublilhed.1C 57 >publifhcd. Upon the 21ft of December, I find the Coun¬cil fuperfede the Execution of the Sentence upon three ofthem, and one formerly reprieved, till further Orders. Asfar as I can guefs, thele four got off, after fomc Imprilbn-ment and partial Compliances ; probably the Rcafon of0 this was the King’s Letter for filling Execution. WhenI the reft are difpatched, the Council order the Magiftratesto take down the Gallows at the Crofs To-morrow ; anddifpenfe with the cutting off the Heads and Hands of fuch)i as are to be executed. Now all were fatiate with Blood,I! except the Prelates, and they were forced to yield.Before thefe Executions began which I have put altoge-ither, upon the 4th of December, I find the Council orderMr. Hew MacKaile and John Neiljon of Cor Jack to be tor¬tured with the Boots, a Praftice not ufed before in Sect-& land in the Memory of any now living and I doubt if it» was often praeftifed fince the Reformation. Now it wasd brought in, and violently urged by the Prelates, and after-u ward frequently ufed. This, with other inhumane and bar-l! barous Tortures made ufe of in this Period, was juftlyI complained of at the Revolution, and abrogated.What moved the Council to pitch upon thefe two I donot know. Mr. MacKaile was a Youth of great Senfeand Learning, and Corfack a Gentleman of excellent Parts,and probably from them they expected vaft Difcoveries.A Confpiracy was pretended, and they were to be exa-i mined by this Torture in Pretence of the Council,'andI Interrogatories formed to be put to them, which I haveft not feen. But there was indeed no Plot to be found, andt their Rifing was merely for Self-defence and unconcerted.IV Corfack was fearfully tormented, fo that his Shrieks wouldhave melted anybody but thofe prefent, who ftill calledfor the other Touch. Nothing was recorded ; for allthey faid was what they had candidly fignified before, Thatthe Opprelfion of the Country had fjrced them to rife inArms, and, being up, they were obliged, in Self-defence,toto ftick together. The Sufferings of Mr. ffew MacKaUeare fo Angular, that though they are printed in Nephtali,yet, being fo proper for a Hiftory of this Nature, I wouldwillingly have infert them here, were they not very pro¬lix, and therefore muft refer my Reader thither for a larg¬er Account of this lingular Perfbn.Never did Men in Scotland die more lamented by theSpeftators, yea the religions Part of the Nation ; but mollof all, when Mr. HewMacKaile fuffered, there was fcarceever li en fo much Sorrow in Onlookers ; fcarce was therea dry Cheek in the whole Street or Windows at the Crofsof Edinburgh. ^ He was a Youth of twenty-fix Years ofAge, univerfally beloved, fingutarly pious, pf very confi-durable Learning. He had feen the World, and traveledfbme Years abroad, and was a very comely graceful Per¬fbn. I am told, he ufed to raft one Day every Week, andhad frequently before this fignified to his Friends his Im-prelfions of fitch a Death as he now underwent. HisShare in the Riling was known to be but fmall, and, whenhe fpoks of his Comfort and Joy in Death, heavy werethe Groans of thefc prefent. When thefe good PeopleWere execute, fuch who were accuitomeJ too much toCuffing, curled the Prelates ; and fuch as ufed to pray,prayed the Guilt of this innocent Blood might not be laidt6 their Charge, nor vifited upon the Land.Mp. Matthew MacKaile Minifter of the Gofpel at Both-idel. Fatlier to Mr. Hew, who was executed after Pe/ii-tand, a true Nathaniel, and a very plain Dealer, preach¬ed in the Year 1669, within a few Miles of Paiflty, to aconfiderable Meeting in the Fields, upwards of a Thou-fand ; his Text was, Ifaiah xxxii. 5. From this he de-feribed the Churl fb, as many of his Hearers applied it toone in that Country of fbme Rank. If the Picture wasfcriptural, and indeed the Preacher was very much Maf-fer of the Bible, and fo natural as to reprefent the Guilty,he was not to be blamed for his Hearers Application.Great( fp )1| Great Koifc was made of that Sermon ; but I do not heat:il Mr. MacKaiie was troubled for it.jj Upon the SlIi January 1674, Mr. Mattheu Mac*f. Kaile, of whom fome Account hath been given a'ready,was liberate from Prifon where he had been for fome time.Upon his rcfufng to engage not to preach, he was confin¬ed to the Parifh of Carlouk, and Bond was given for him,that he fnould appear before the Council when called.9 Elegy on the Death of Mr. He w Ma cKaile,TH’ Affairs of Mortals reel fo, that they beNought but a Scene of Inflability :The Pleafures which our poor Enjoyment brings,K They are but feeble, fickly, palfy things.I Our Sun is clouded, is not void of Stains •,3 Our Moon hath Changes, and doth fuffer Wains,ft A gloomy Night attends our fairefi: Day ;3 Our fweeteft Honey wanteth not Allay.3 Griefs, brinifii Streams, with our Delights do flow :No Rofo without its prickly Thorn doth grow.1. Our Aprils do September Falls bewail ;L Our Habveft often fills our Barns with Hail.I The Proofs of thefe Things in this Youth we find,i Soon nipt down, as a Rofe, by boiHerons Wind.1 His early Dawnings fparkled luch a Light,\ As promifed a Noon that fnould be bright.I His greener Bloffoms gave fuch ample Hope,r That none did queftion the lucceeding Crop.P The Graces their own Biith would have him Ail’d;r The Mufes have adopt’ him for their Child.I Among!! her Babes would Eloquence him plac’d,K And, as her Suckling, Pallas him embrac’d.’■ Fond Venus hngg’d him m Adonis’ Stead :|1 In this Hew'Grotius would have gloried.I For he had Beauty which might well endear :1 No Blemifn in his Body did appear.Some( <5o )Some great Thing fparkled in that blufhing Face,Integrity that lovely Brow did grace.His Looks, Words, Gefture, all did rcprefentSomething that was refign’d and excellent:The facred Word he heard with pious Care ;And greedily fuck’d in that heavenly Air.His humble Youth did to his Parents bow ;And all Obedience to his Teachers (hew :Their Precepts and Inflru&ions did him fway;Their very Looks he would not difobey.His Grandfire’s Image, and a Compend heOf his Anceftors, each Way feem’d to be :But whate’er were the Beauties of his Face,A fairer Mind dwelt in that lovely Cafe ;A fprightly Mind, and unacquaint with Guile,Which with no Bafenefs' did irfelf defile ;A divine Soul, not made to Vice a Drudge,A Palace where the Graces chus’d to lodge.Let every Sigh, and each ungrateful GroanBe filent, and all ufelefs Tears be gone ;Bccaufe he’s with the Lamb’s white Robes array’d.Enjoys Rewards for which his Lord hath paid;And wearing Palms, the heavenly Streets doth tread,And' followeth, where by his Lord he’s led.Shall we be therefore fad ? fad that he isInto that State We for ourfelves would wifb.Why do we grieve for his untimely Death ?Why blame we Fate that fo foon ftopt his Breath !He lived much into fo (hort a Day,Did fo much Work, that juftly we may fay,Few live fo long, who tarry on the Stage,Even till they reach to their decrepit Age.Trull me in this, that he’s not in the Wrong,That fays. Who li-jeth well he liveth long.He that can count more Years can count more Pains,But can make no great Reck’ning of his Gains.F INIS.