THEa ISOMThe castle of the Prince of Tolfi was builton the summit of the owering and precipitiousrock of Scylla, and commanded a magnificentview of Sicily in all its grandeur. Here dur¬ing the wars of the middle ages, when thefertile plains of Italy were devastated by hos¬tile factions, those prisoners were confined,for whose ransom a costly price was deman¬ded. Here, too, in a dungeon, excavateddeep in the solid rock, the miserable victimwas inmnired, whom revenge pursued,—thedark, fierce, and unpitying revenge of anItalian heart.Vivenzio—the noble and the generous,the fearless in battle, and the pride of Naplesin her sunny hours of peace—the young, thebrave, the proud, Vivei.zio fell beneath thissubtile and remorseless'spirit. He was the |prisoner of Tolfi, and he languished in thatvrock-encircled dungeon, which stood alone,and whose portals never opened tw&e upon aliving captive.It had the semblance of a vast cage, for theroof, and floor, and sides, were of iron, so-» diy wrought, and spaciously constructed.3■iigh above there ran a range of seven oratedwindow's, guarded with massy bars of theam'e metal, winch admitted light and air.'vave these, and the tall folding, doors beneathhem, which occupied the centre, no chink,■' chasm, or projection, broke the smooth-lack surface of the walls. An iron bedstead,ttcred with straw, stood in one corner; andeside it, a vessel with water, and a coarseish filled with coarser food./Even the intrepid soul of Vivenzio shrunk-ith dismay as he entered this abode, andbard the ponderous doors triple-locked byic silent ruffians who conduc*ed him to it.heir silence seemed prophetic of his fate, ofp living grave that had been prepared for■:im. Uis menaces and his entreaties, his iiyjjignant appeals for justice, and his impatient|icstioningof their intentions, were alike vain.iiLey listened, but spoke not, Fit ministersa crime that should have no tongue !||:How dismal was the sound of their retir-g steps! And,- as their faint echoes diedong the winding passages, a fearful presage‘ew within him, that never more the face,' voice, or tread, of man, would greet hisnses. He had seen human beings for thest time ! And he had looked his last upone bright sky, and upon the smiting earth,id upon a beautiful world he-loved andfiosc minion he had been! Here he was toid his life—a life hh had just begun to revel4in ! And by what means? By secret poison ?or by murderous assault? No—for then ithad been needless to bring him thither. Fa¬mine perhaps—a thousand deaths in one ! Itwas terrible to think of it—but it was yet moreterrible to picture long, long years of captivityin a solitude so appalling, a loneliness sodreary, that thought, for want of fellowship,would lose itself in madness, or stagnate intoidiocy.He could not hope to escape, unless hehad the power, with his bare hands, of ren¬ding asunder the solid iron walls of his prison.He could not hope for liberty from the re¬lenting mercies of his enemy. His instantdeath, under any form ©f refined cruelty, wasnot the object of Tolfi, for he might have indieted it, and he had not. It was two evident, therefore, he was reserved for some premeditated scheme of subtile vengeance ; andwhat vengeance couldmalice, either the slow death of famine, or thestill slower one of solitary incarceration, tilthe last lingering spark of life expired, or reason fled, and nothing should remain to perisljbut the brute functions of the body ?It was evening when Vivenzio entered hi;|dungeon, and the approaching shades of nighwrapped it in total darkness, as he paced ujand down, revolving in his mind these horrible forebodings. No tolling bell from thcastle, or from any neighbouring church oconvent, struck upon his ear to tell how thenours passed. Frequently he would stop andlisten for some sound that might betoken theidcinity of man ; but the solitude of the desert,the silence of the tomb, are net so still andleep as the oppresive desolation by which hewas encompassed. His heart sunk within him,ind he threw himself dejectedly upon hispouch of straw. Here sleep gradually obli-[ terated the consciousness of miserv, and bland' dreams wafted his delighted spirit to scenesI which were once glowing realities for him, in( whose ravishing illusions he soon lost the re¬membrance that he was Tolfi’s prisoner.When be awoke, it was daylight j but howi long he had slept he knew not. It might bei early morning, or it might be sultry noon, forjihe could measure time by no other note of itsprogress than light and darkness. Ht hadibeen so happy in his sleep, amid friends thatloved him, and sweeter endearments of those' who loved him as friends could not, that inthe first moments of waking, his startled mind■ seemed to admit the knowledge of his situa¬tion, as if it had burst upou it for the firsttima, fresh in all its appalling horrors. Hej gazed round with an air of doubt and arr.aze-i ment, and took up a handful of the straw upon1 which he lay, as though he would ask himself' what it meant. But memory, too faithful toher office, soon unveiled the melancholy past,while reason, shuddering at the task, flashedhe resqlyea rnav no treacherousand when, at’last,“enfeebled -iuui\cubefore his eyes the tremendous future. Thecontrast overpowered him. He remained forsome time lamenting, like a truth, the brightvisions that had vanished ; and recoiling fromthe present, whi*h clung to him as a poisoned,garment.When he grew more calm, he surveyed hisgloomy dungeon. Alas! the stronger light;of day only served to confirm what the gloomyindistictness of the preeeeding evening hadpartially disclosed, the utter impossibility ofescape. As, however, his eyes wanderedround and round, and from place to place, henoticed two circumstances which exited hissurprise and curiosity. The one, he thoughtmight be fancy ; but the other, was positive.His pitcher of water, and the dish which con¬tained his food, had been removed from hisside while lie slept, and now stood near thedoor. Were he even inclined to doubt this, -by supposing he had mistaken the spot wherehe saw them over night, he could not, for thepitcher now in his dungeon was neither of thesame form nor colour as the other, while thefood was changed for some other of betterquality. He had been visited therefore dur¬ing 'the night. But how had the person ob¬tained entrance ? Could he have slept sosoundly, that the unlocking and opening ofthose ponderous portals were affected withoutwaking him ? He would have said this was‘ “Wt iu doing so, he mustadmit a greater difficulty, an entrance byother means, of which he was convinced there! existed none. It was not intended, then, that: he should he left to perish from hunger.1 But the secret and mysterious mode of sup¬plying him with food, seemed to indicate he| was to have no opportunity of communicating -| with a human being.The other circumstance which had attract-jed his notice, was the disappearance, as he be-jlieved, of one of the seven grated windowsi’ that ran along the top of his prison. He felt^confident that he had observed and countedI’them ; for he was rather surprised at their|lnumber, and there was something peculiar inTheir form, as well as in the manner of theirarrangement, at unequal distances. It was somuch easier, however, to suppose he was mis'Ita/ren, than that a portion of the solid iron,jwhich formed the walls, could have escapedfrom its position, that he soon dismissed thethought from his mind.Vivenzie partook of the food that was be-Ifore him, without apprehension. It mightbe poisoned ; but if it were, he /rnew he couldnot escape death, should such be the designof Tolfi 5 and thefquic/rest death would be the; speediest release.The day passed wearily and gdoomily;ilthough not without a faint hope that, by Z'eep-ing watch at nigffit, he might observe when(the person came ag-ain to bring- him food,nrnarhed. he resolvea mat xio treacherous—''h , and when, at iast,"ehteebTed aswhich he supposed he would do in the sameway as before. The mere thought of beingapproached by a living creature, and the op¬portunity it might present af learning thedoom prepared, or preparing, for him, impart¬ed some comfort. Besides, if he came alone,might he not in a furious onset overpowerhim ? Or he might be accessible to pity, orthe influence of such munificent rewards as hecould bestow, if once more at liberty and mas¬ter of himself. Say he were armed. Theworse that could befall, if not bribe, nor pray¬ers, nor force prevaled, was a faithful blow,which though dealt in a damned cause, mightwor/r a desired end. There was no chance sodesperate, but it looked lovely in Vivenzio'seyes compared with the idea of being totallyabandoned.The night came, and Vivenzio watched, jMorning came, and Vivenzio was confound¬ed ! He must have slumbered without /enow, ,ing it. Sleep must have stolen over himwhen exhausted by fatigue, and in the inter¬val of feverish repose, he had been baffled ; forthere stood his replenished pitcher of water,and there his day’s meal! Nor was this all.Casting his looks towards the windows of hisdungeon, he counted but f^ye! ere wasno decepton ; and he was now convinced therehad been none the day before. But what didall this portend ? Into what strange and mys¬terious den had he been cast? e ^azcdtill9his eyes ached ; he could discover nothing' toexplain the nystery. That it was so, he knew.Why it was so, he racked his imagination invain to cojecture. He examined the doors.A single circumstance convinced him that theyhad not been opened.A wisp of straw, which he had carelesslythrown against them the proceeding day, as hepaced to and Iro, remained where he had castit, though it must have been displaced by theslightest motion of either of the doors. Thiswas evidence that could not be disputed ; andit followed there must be some secret machin¬ery in the walls by which a person could enter.He inspected them closely. They appearedto him one solid and compact mass of iron ; orjoined, if joined they were, with such nice art,that no mark of division was perceptible. A-gain and again he surveyed them—and thefloor—and the roof—and the range of vision¬ary windows, and he was now almost temptedto consider them ; he could discover nothing,absolutly nothing, to relieve his doubts or sat¬isfy h is curiosity. Sometimes he fancied thataltogether the dungeon had a more contractedappearance—that it looked amaller ; but thishe ascribed to fancy, and the impression nat-nrally produced upon his mind by the unde¬niable disappearance of two of the windows.With intense anxiety, Vivenzio looked for¬ward to the return of night; and as it ap-"rnarhed. he resolved that no treacherous' "and when, ’aVias^ eHtaeb'ied 'luu“'cu 11010sleep should again betray him. Instead ofseeking his bed of ftraw, he continued towalk ,up and down his dungeon till daylight,straining his eyes in every direction throughthe darkness, to watch for any appearancethat might explain these mysteries. Whilethus engaged, and as nearly as he could judge,(by the time that afterwards clasped beforethe morning came in,) about two o’clock,there was a .slight tremulous motion of thefloors. He stooped. The motion lasted near¬ly a minute ; but it was so extremely gentle,that he almost doubted whether it was real, oronly imaginary. He listened. Not a soundcould be heard. Presently, however, he felta rush of cold air blow upon him ; and dash¬ing towards the quarter whence it seemed toproceed, he stumbled over something whichhe judged to be the mater emer. The rush ofcold air mas no longer perceptible ; and as Vi-venzio stretched out his hands, he found him¬self close to the walls. He remained motion¬less for a considerable time ; but nothing oc¬curred during the remainder of the night toexite his attention, though he continued towatch with unabated vigilance.The first approaches of the morning werevisible through die grated windows, breaking,with faint divisions of light, the darkness thatstill pervaded every other part, long beforeVivenzio was enabled to distinguish any objectin his dungeon. Instinctively and fearfullynhe turned his e*, s hot and infiaircd v.ithwatching, towards them. '1 here were four !He could see only four ; but it might be thatsome intervening object prevented the fifthft-om becoming percptible ; and he walked im¬patiently to ascertain if it were so. As thelight strengthened, however, and penetratedevery corner of the cell, other objects of a-mazeinent struck his sight. On the groundlay the broken fragments of the pitcher he hadused the day before, and at a small dhtancefrom them, nearer the wall, stood the ene hehad noticed the first night. It was filled withwater, and beside it was his food. He wasnow certain, that, by seme mechanical contriv¬ance, an opening was obtained through theiron wall, and that through this opening thecurrent of air had found entrance. But hownaisless ! For had a feather almost waved atthe time, he must have heard it. Again heexamined that part of the wall ; but both tosight and touch it appeared one even and uni¬form surface, while to repeated and violentblows, there was no reverberating sound indi¬cative of hollowness.This perplexing mystery had for a timewithdrawn Ids thoughts from the windows;but now'directing his eyes again towards them,he saw that the fifth had disappeared in thesame manner as the preceeding two, withoutthe least distinguishable alteration of external"and' Whent1 at looked “12the seven had originally looked 5 that is, occu¬pying, at irregular distances, the top of thewall on that side of the dungeon. The tallfolding door, too, still seemed to stand beneathin the centre of these four, as it had at firststood in the centre of the seven. But hecould no longer doubt, what, on the preceed-ing day, he fancied might be the effect ofvisual deception. The dungeon was smaller.The roof had lowered—and the opposite endshad contracted the intermediate distance by aspaee equal, he thought, to that over whichthroe windows had extented. He was bewild¬ered in vain imaginings to account for thesetilings. Soma frightful purpose—some dev¬ilish torture of mind or body—some unheard-of divice far producing exquisite misery, lark¬ed, he was sure, in what had taken place.Oppressed with this belief, and distractednacre by the dreadful uncertainty of whateverfate impended, than he could be dismayed hethought, by the knowledge of the worst, hesat ruminating, hoar after hour, yielding hisfe.ri in succession to every haggard fancy.At last a horrible suspicion Hashed across hismind, and he started up with a frantic air.“ Yes! ” he exclaimed, looking wildly roundhis dungeon, and shuddering as he spoke—“ Yes! it must be so! I see it!—l feel themaddening truth like scorching flames uponmy brain! Eternal God!—support me! Itt mast be ^I13(Yon roof will descend !—these walls will hemmie round—and slowly, slowly, crush me in’their iron arms! Lord God ! look down uponime, and in mercy strike me with instant death!Oh, fiend, devil—is this your revenge?”He dashed himself upon the ground inagony ;—tears burst from him, and the sweatIstood in large drops upon his face—he sobbedaloud—he tore his hair—he rolled about likeone suffering intolerable anguish of body, and'would have bitten the iron floor beneath him ;i he breathed fearful curses upon Tolfi, and thei next moment passionate prayers to heaven forimmediate death. Then the violence of his;grief became exhausted, and he lay still, weep-ling as a child would weep. The twilight ofi.departing day shed its gloom around him erei.he arose from that posture of utter and hope¬less sorrow. He had taken no food. Not onei drop of water had cooled the fever of his parch-: ed lips. Sleep had not visited his eyes for:isix and thirty hours. He was faint withrhunger; w'eary with watching, and with the! excess of his emotions. He tasted of his food ji.he drank with avidity of the water ; and reel¬ing like a drunken man to his straw, cast him-iself upon it to brood again over the appalingimage that had fastened itself upon his almostifrenzied thoughts.He slept. But his slumbers were not tran-i quil. He resisted, as long as could, their ap-—«v. , ancj enfeebled natureI - '. --irr14.yielded to their influence, he found no obliv-'ion from his cares. Terrible dreams hauntedhim?—-.ghastly visions harrowed up his imagin¬ation—he shouted and screamed, as if he al¬ready felt the dungeon’s ponderous roof de¬scending on him—he breathed hard and thick,!as though writhing between its iron walls.Then would he spring up—-stare wildly abouthim—stretch forth his hands to be sure he yethad space enough to live—and, mutteringsome inooherent word, sink down again, topass through the same fierce vicissitudes of ue-*lirious sleep.The morning of the fourth day dawnedupon Vivenzio. But it was high noon beforehis mind shook offite stupor, or he awoke toia full consciosness of his situation. And whadJa fixed energy of despair sat upon Iris pal*features, as he cast his eyes upwards, andga^ed upon the thuee windows that now aloneremained! ♦The three!—there were nomore !:—and they seemed to number his own!alioted days. Slowly and calmly he next sur¬veyed the top and sides, and comprehendedall the meaning of the diminished height ofthe former, a« well as of the gradual apprwx-iinination of the latter. The contracted di¬mensions of his mysterious piison were r.owjltoo gross and palpable to be the juggle of hislimagination. Still lost in wonder at the meansJJ.Vivenzio could put no cheat upon his reasenilas to the end. By what horrible iucrennit" 'j15was contrived, that walls, and roof, and win¬dows, should thus silently and imparcoptibly,without noise, and without motion almost, fold,as it were, within each other, he knew not.'He only knew they did so ; and he vainlystrove to persuade himself it was the intentionof the contriver, to rack the miserable wretchwho might be immured there, with anticipa¬tion, merely, of a fate, from which in the verycrisis of his agony, he was to be reprieved.Gladly would he have clung even to thispossibility, if his heart would have let him ;but he felt a dreadful assuran ce of its fallacy.And what matchless inhumanity it was todoom the sufferer to such ligering torments—to lead him day by day to so appalling a death,unsupported by the consolations of religion,unvisited by any human being, abandoned tohimself, deserted ef all, and denied even thesad privilege of knowing that his cruel des¬tiny would awaken pity! Alone he was toperish !—alone he was to wait a slow comingtorture, whose most exquisite pangs would beinflicted by that very solitude and that tardycoming!“ It is not death I fear, ” he exclaimed,“but the death l mast prepare for ! Methmks,I too, I could meet even that—all horrible and(revolting as it is—if it might overtake: meii now. But where shall 1 find fortitude toil tarry till it come! How can I outlive theI three long days axd nights I have to live?16There is ho power within nae to bid the hid¬eous spectre nence—none to make it familiarto my thoughts; or myself, patieut of its er¬rand. My thoughts, rather will flee from me,and I grow mad in looking at it. Oh ! for adeep sleep to fall upon me! That so, indeath’s likeness, I might embrace death itself,and drink no more of the cup that is present¬ed to me, than my fainting spirit has alreadytasted! ”In the midst of these lamentations, Viven-zio noticed that his accustomed meal, with thepitcher of water, had been eonveyed, as before,into his dungeon. But this circumstancenolonger excited his surprise. His mind wasoverwhelmed with others of a far greater mag¬nitude. It suggested, however, a feeble hopsof deliverance; and there is no hope so feeble,as not to yei'id «ome support to a heart bend¬ing under despair. He resolved to watch,during the ensuing night, for the signs he hadbefore observed ; and should he again feel thethe gentle, tremulous motion of the floor, orthe current of air, to seize that moment forgiving audible expression to his misery. Someperson must be near him, and within reach ofhis voice, at the instant when his food wassupplied ; some one, perhaps, susceptible ofpity. Or if not, to be told even that his appre¬hensions were just, and that his fate was to bowhat he foreboded, would be preferable to asuspense which hung upon the possibilitp ofhis worst fears being visionary.uisEenmi"The night came ; and as the hour approach¬ed when Vivenzio imagined he might expectthe signs, he stood fixed and silent as a statue.He feared to breathe, almost, lest he mightlose any sound which would warn him of theircoming. While thus listening, with every fa¬culty of mind and body strained to an agonyof attention, it occured to him he should bemore sensible of the motion, probably, if hestretched himself along the iron floor. Heaccordingly laid himself softly down, andhad not been long in that position when—yes—he was certain of it—the floor moved underhim ! He sprang up, and in a voice suffocatednearly with emotion called, aloud. He paused—the motion ceased—he felt no stream of airall was hushed—no voice answered to his—heburst into tears ; and as he sunk to the ground,in renewed anguish, exclamed,—“ Oh, myGod ! my God L You alone have power to saveme now, or strengthen me for the trial youpermit.”Another morning dawned upon the wretch¬ed captive, and the fatal index of his doom methis eyes. Two windows! and txco days, and aiiwould be over! Fresh food, fresh water! Themysterious visit had been paid, though he hadimplored it in vain. But how awfully was hisprayer answered inwhat he now saw ! The roofef the dungeon was within a foot his head. 'Ihetwo ends were so near, that in six paces he trodthe space between them. Vtyenzio shudder¬ed as he gazed, and as his steps traversed thenarrowed area. But his feelings no longervented themselves in frantic wailings. Withfolded arms, and clenched teeth, with eyesthat were blood-shot from much watching, andfixed with a vacant glare upon the ground, witha hard quick breathing, and a hurried walk,he strod backwards and forwards in silent mus¬ing for several hours. What mind shall con¬ceive, wh .t tongue utter, or what pen describethe dark and terrible character of his thoughts !Like "he fate that moulded them, they had nosimilitude in the wide range of this world’sagony for man. Suddenly he stopped, andhis eyes were riveted upon that part of the wallwhich was over his bed of straw. Words areinscribed here! A human language, tracedby a human hand ! Fie rushes towards them:but his blood freezes as he reads :“ 1, Ludovica Sforza, tempted by the goldof the Prince of Tplfi, spent three years in con¬triving and executing this accursed triumph ofmy art. When it was completed, the perfid¬ious Tdlfi, more devil than man, who conduct¬ed me hither one morning, to be witness as hesaid, of its perfection, doomed wc to be thefirst victim of my own pernicious skill; lest ashe declared; 1 should divulge the secret, orrepeat the effort of my ingenuity. May Godpardon him, as I hope he will me, that minis¬tered to hi* unhallowed purpose ! Miserablesuspense which hung upon the possibilitp of Ihis worst fear* being visionary. '/j[wretch, whoe’er thou art, that teadest theselines, fall on thy knees, and invoke as I havedone, Kis sustaining mercy, who alone cannerve thee to meet the vengeance of Tolfr,armed with his tremendious engine, which ina few hours must crush you, .as it will theneedy wretch that made it. ”A deep groan burst from Yivenzip. Hestood like one transfixed, with dilated eyes, ex¬panded nostrils, and quivering lips, gazing atat this fatal inscription. It was as if a voicefrom the sepulchre had sounded in his ears,“Prepare!” Hope forsook him. Therewas his sentence, recorded in these dismalwords. The future stood unveiled before him,ghastly and appalling. His brain already feelsthe descending horror,—Lis bones seemed tocrack and crumble in the mighty grasp of theiron walls! Unknowing what it is he does,lie fumbles in his garment for some weapon ofself-destruction. He clenches his throat inhis convulsive gpipe, as though he would[strangle himself at once. He stares upon thewalls, and his warring spirit demands, “ Willthey not anticipate their office if I dash my headigainst them ? ” An hysterical laugh chokes|hhn as he exclaims, “why should 1 ? Hewas butra man who died first in their fierceEmbrace; and I should be less than man not|;o do as "much ? ”The evening sun was descending, and Vi-I'enzio behe-ld its golden beams streamingthrough one of the windows. What a thrillof joy shot through his soul at the sight! Itwas a precious link, that united him, for themoment, with the world beyond. There wasecstacy in the thought. As he gazed, longand earnestly, it seemed as if the windows hadlowered sufficienly for him to reach them.With one bound he was beneath them—withone wild spring he clung to the bars. ^Wheth¬er it was so contrived, pnrposly to maddenwith delight the wretch who looked, he knewnot; but, at the extremity of a long vista, cutthrough the solid rocks, the ocean, the sky,the setting sun, olive groves, shady walks, andin the farthest distance, delicious glimpses o£magnificient Sicily, burst upon his sight.How exquisite was the cool breeze as it sweptacross his check, loaded with fragrance! Heinhaled it as though it were the breath of con¬tinued life. And there was a freshness in the jlandscape, and in the rippling of the calmgreen sea, that fell upow his withering heartlike dew upon the parched earth. How hegazed and panted, and still clung to his hold !somtimes hanging by one hand, sometimes bythe other, and then grasping the bars withboth, as loth to quite the smiling paradise out¬stretched before him ; till exhausted, and his !hands swollen and benumbed, he droped help¬less down, and lay stunned for a consideiable !time by the fall.When he recovered, the glorious vision had ,\’Vsuspense which hung upon thehis worst fears being visionary. -possibilitp ofnj^tTitntv j<v21vanished. He was in darkness. He doubtedwhether it was not a dream that had passedbefore his sleeping fancy; but gradually hisscattered thoughts returned, and with themremembrance Yes; he had looked once a-gain upon the gorgeous splendour of nature!Once again hss eyes had trembled beneaththeir veiled lids, at the sun’s radiance, andsought repose in the solt verdure of the olivetree, or the gentle swell of undulating waves.Oh, that he were a mariner, exposed uponthe waves to the worst fury of storm andtempest; or a very wretch, loathsome with dis¬ease, plague-stricken, and his body one leprouscontagion from crown to sole, hunted forth togasp out the remnant of infectious life beneaththose verdant trees, so he might shun the des¬tiny upon whose edge he tottered !Vain thoughts like these would steal overhis mind from time to time, in spite of himself jbut they scarcely moved it from that stuporinto which it had sunk, and which kept him,during the whole night, like one who had beendrugged with opium. He was equally insen¬sible to the calls of hunger and of thirst,though the third day was now commencingsince even a drop of water had passed his lips.He remainad on the ground, sometimes sitting,sometimes lying ; at intervals, sleeping heavi¬ly ; and when not sleeping, silently broodingover what was to come, or talking aloud, indisordered speech, of his wrongs, of hisfrieutls, of his horns, ami of those he loved,with a confused: mingling of all.In this pitiable ^condition, the sixth and lastmorning dawned upon V-ivenzio, if dawn itmight he called—the dim obscure light whichfaintly struggled through the one solitarywindow of his dungeon. He could hardly besaid to notice the melancholy token. Andyet he did notice it ; for as he raised his eyesand saw the portentous sign, there was a slightconvulsive distortion of his coun enartce. liutwhat did, attract his notice, and at the sight ofwhich' his agitation was excessive, was thechange his iron bed had undergone, it wasa,bed no longer. It stood before him, thevisible semblance of a funeral couch or bier !When he beheld this, he started from theground ; and, in raising himself, suddenlystruck his head against the roof, which wasnow so low that he, could no longer stand up*right. “ God’s will be done!” was-all hesaid} as he crouched his body, and placed hisbaud upon the bier ; for such it was. Theiron bedstead had been so contrived, by themechanical art of Ludovico Sforza, that asthe advancing walls came in contact with it,head; and Let, a pressure was produced uponconcealed springs, which when made to play,set in motion a very simple though ingenious¬ly contrived machinery, that effected the trans¬formation. The object was, of course, (oheighten, ,ia the closing scene of this horrible23Irama, nl) the feelings of despair an,d anguishvhich the preceding ones had aroused. ° Forhersame reason, the last window was so iuadeis to admit only a shadowy kind of gloom,'ath?r than light, that the wretched captivenight be surrounded, it were, with everyceming; preparation for approaching death.Vivenzio seated hirnseh on his bier, d hense knp’t. and prayed fervently ; and sometimesjar; would gush from him. The air,seemedhick, and he breathed with difficulty ; or itlight be that he fancied itwas so, trem theot and narrow iinijts of his dungeon, which•eve now so idnunisliexl th .t he could neithertand up nor lie down at his full length. Butis wasted spirits and oppressed mind no longerniggled within him. Jle was past Lope, and;ar shook him no more. Happy if thus re-snge had struck its final blow j .for he wouldavo fallen beneath it almost unconscious, cl aang. But such a lethargy of the,soul, altertell an excitiiiCnt of its fiercest prions, hadttered into the diabolical calculations ofTolfi;id the fell artificer of his designs had imag.led u countQraetiag device,f i he toiling of an enormous bell struck up-& the eais ot \ iveuzio! lie started, itjat but once. The sound was to close andunning, that it seemed to shatter his very;dn, while it echoed through the rocky pas-ges like reverberating peals of thunder,his was followed by a suddp.w crash *hr24-roof and walls, as if they were about to fallupon and close around him at once. Viven-zio screamed, and instinctively spread forthhis arms, as though he had a giant’s strengthto hold them back. They had moved nearerto him, and were now motionless. Vivenziolooked up, and saw the roof almost touchinghis head, even as he sat cowering beneath it;and he felt that a further contraction of but afew inches only must commence the frightfuloperation. Roused as he had been, he nowgasped for breath. His body shook violently—he was bent nearly double. His hands rest¬ed upon either wall, and his feet were drawnunder him to avoid the pressure in front.Thus he remained for more than an hour,when that deafening bell beat again, and againthere came the crash of horrid death. Butthe concussion was now so great that it struckVivenzio down. As he lay gathered up inlessened bulk, the bell beat loud and frequent—erash succeeded crash—and on, and on,and on came the mysterious engine of death,till Vivenzio’s smothered groans were heardno more ! He was horibly crushed by theponderious roof and collapsing sides—and theflattened bier was his Iran Shroud.