THELast SPEECH.ANDI* . ; * * ^ *FESTIMONY° FF inlay;/ho lived in Muirfide in the Parifh of KlU; marnock, and Suf-rcd in the Grafs-MarketI of Edinburgh, ‘December 15. 1682- Foehis Faithful Adhering to the Caufe and La-tereft of Chri st.[Never before Printed."]fbe Name of the Righteous Jhall be had in ever*!■, lading Remembrance; but the Name of the, IVicked fhall penfh, Prov. x. 7* Pfd* cxiL 6.Edinburgh, Prined by William Gray, for JamesMeuroje Merchant m Kiimrnock. 17$9'w/yt;, y * u /\■ HZ*OHN/( * )The laP TESTIMONY ofJohn Finjlay.•L. v w   M fn and Brethren,SHEWING you that I am Condemnecunjuflly by a Generation of bloodyMen. who is thliPing after the Blootof the Saints of G O D, and upon no otl er Aocount bur for my being found in the Way omv Duty in the Sight of GOD ; Glory to hiuholy Nam. for it, though gone about with roa.,iBy Failings, much lmp< rfeclions, for adheringfto r hriH in all his Offices, as Prophet, Priejiand Knig And for my following him in allhis pevfecuted Got, el Truths.The Articles of-my Irdiftmenr, was forfrfl. My keening Company with the perfecu-tted People or God, Minillers and others, for?which with my whole Soul 1 blefs him thatever he honomed me with fuch Company,and in token of his Countenance he hath keptme in that Company.idly For my being in Company and Con-■Verfe with Mr. 'Donald Cargil; for which withmy w ole Soul l defire to blefs and magnifietlK fliclic$ of ius Grace, that ever he confer¬red !( ? )ed fuch Company, fuch Company upon fuchfinful Wretch, and Mr. Donald Ca>gil, Mr..'ting, Mr. Richard Cameron, Mr. Kid, inlarticular.$dly. My refilling to call the Bi(hof% DeathIrlurder, which 1 ciurit not do, it being God’sighteous Judgment upon him.Aphly, My not calling BothivelLBridge,Rebellion; it being in Defence of themfclvcsind of the Gofpel, which is lawful in God’sSight; and therefore I durft not call it Rebel'n.$thly. My giving Meat, Drink, and Cont¬ort to the perfecuted People of God ; thathtch l did willingly and with my whole, eart; herein I have fweet Peace this Dayi.n that x. of Matth. ver. 42. Bnd ivhofoevcr"mil giye to drink unto one of thcfe little Ones. a.'up of cold Water only, in the Name of a Difciple, -verily I fay unto you, he [hall m no wife’ofe his Reward; which he hath made out toare abundantly to the full.^ 6thly, For my being commanded to fay,GOD faye the King, which i durft not dotFor my Soul: Their bidding us do it in Teftjpf our Loyalty, to fave him in his Perfon, and^Government, and Authority, which is a per-jfect owning of him in all that he hath done,rin his ‘Ufurpation upon Chrift’s Prerogativesnand Privileges, they having made him Su-Ipream Head in all Matters and Caufes, CivilEccleliaftick; which if 1 had done, itwould^and‘ ' V T ✓Would liave been a flat denying of ChriOand a Joining with him and them, I tneanjCharles Stewart, in all that they have donain overturning of the Glorious Work of Refor-imation in thefe Lands, and all the Wrongs!done to the Gofpel and People of God in thisDay, which would have made me odious inthe Sight of God, and before the World; forwhich I blefs him, he hath kept from ; as theScripture faith, He that is not faithful m thelittle, will not he faithful in that which is much.~]thly. Being asked if 1 would not pray forrhe King ? ] laid, Yes. Do it then ? i faid,accoiding to Scripture. They faid, he willpray lor him as he is a Man; but not as he isKing, which is high Treafon and Rebellion.Now my Friends, 1 being confcientious tomyfelf, that my owning him as my King, wasa ca(Hng:oif Chrift Jefus who is Head andKing of Zion, and taking on with him, and fotiave incurred the Wrath of God, and homo¬logate all the Blood-Shed, and all the horrid'.bloody Abominations they have committed infte Land, with avowed defying of the GreatGOD. O who dare join with fuch avowed E-nemies of our God, and fo call off the Societyof the Saints, and give the Hand of Fellow-ihip to fuch bloody and menfworn Wretchesthat is making it their whole "Work to root outGodlinefs out of this Covenanted Land, thatthe Name of Ifrael/hall no more be made men¬tion of: But they will be all beguiled, forChrist \IbnRisT will Reign till all his Enemies beiade his Footftool.I give my TefUmony to the fare Word of|God which is Scriptures of Truth.I idly, I give my Tellimony to the Way ofSalvation through Jefus Chrift, and that byhis Satisfaction.^dly, I bear my Teftimony to the Workf Reformation, as it was Reformed from Po-)ery, Prelacy, Eraftianifm, and other Errors,s it is contained in the ConfeJJion of Faitl\arger and Shorter Catechifms.Ayhly, 1 give my Teltimony to the Cove¬nants, National and Solemn League, and So-Uetnn Acknowledgment of Sins, and Engage¬ment to Duties, Sum of faying Knowledge,Directory for fVorfinf : And to the Cauicsrof God’s Wrath, drawn up by the General| AiTembly of the Church, after their meetingwith the rotten-hearted Malignant Charles.Stewart.. $tbly, I bear my Teftimony to the faithfalAClings of the Remonftrators againft Malig¬nant, and Malignant Intereft, that is the v< -ry Thing contended for by the true Presbyte¬rians of the Chut ch of Scotland^6thly, 1 give my Teftimony, not to go far-| ther back, feeing it homologates the reft of|l that notable Teftimony, given at Lanark a-| gainft that Tyrant and the Teft, intimated by[I that late PatUumeiu, which i cewld not butlooklook upon it in the Time of Carrying on 01it, and yet doth, that the Remnant wsts owrjed of the Lord. 1yfhly 1 bear my Teftimony to all the faith|fui l eftimonies of the Martyrs, that hath gonebefore us, whether on Scaffolds, or on theFields, or in the Seas.J bear my TcfKmony to all Appear¬ances in Arms, for Defence of the Gofpel.I bear my Tertimony to the faithfulPreaching of the Gofpel that hath been in thfiFields, by the faithful and fent Meflcngcrs ofJcfus Chrift, according to his own Miffon,P caching Days, Communion Days, and FadBays, by MclTeurs Cargil, King, Kid, Cam-ton and "Do-wglas.Tenthly and Lajlly, I bear my TeOimonyto the Fellowfhip Meetings of the Lord’s Peo¬ple, Particular and General; my Soul hathbeen many a Time refi efhe4 with his Prcfcncein Company with them.Likewife, I bear my Teflimony againft thepublick Refolutioners for taking in the Malig¬nant Interefl, for which this poor Church isfmarting for this Day, and feeling the Weightof the Tyrants Hand, for fuch eager Liftingafter a King.idly, I bear my Teftimony againft: Hamil¬ton Declaration, which is one and the famewith the Refolutioners, for taking in the fore-faid Intereft contrary to the Lands Engage-^mems in Covenant.%dly, Fox( 7 V ; v1 Ynr Cnrrupting rHe Army an^ mTierThings, fuch as rhe Excommunicate I' vrant’s:ln creft, Ccfs anJ all other Impolition ot thanfNature, for the down bearing of Child’sbereft, doing it againft a holy GOD.!| 4f^/y, l bear my Teftinvmy agamft inlut-ged Minifters, for their not coming in b* the.Door but by the Million of Men. 'John* i.that entretb not by the ’Door into the '•beep~fold, but climbeth up fame other IV\iy the fame\is a'Thief and a Robber; th y being entrediby the Tyrant, and not by rhe Door; theyare become Men-fcrvanrs, and not Sery-mts toJefus Chiift, and fo is beco ne an Eraltiaq.'.Party, which hath wronged our l^ord and King.more then the bloody PrelaMck Party ha h io cthefe Twenty Years by-gone, by ttieir re ■ ngthe Churches Bowels, and foi dividing manya Bofom Friend, to the great Hurt of the Go-Ifpel.$th!y, \ leave my Tcftimony againft allCorrupt Minifters, Ihclrering themieivcs un¬der their Wings, ftiengrhmng the Stakes of} that Plantation and lor th ir dark and ambi-j guous Preaching in not deciaung toe whole| Counfel of God.6tbly, l leave my Teftimony againft all thei Enemies and Wrongcrs of my Lord’s Gloriousi Privileges and Prerogatives, ah in General :' I leave my Peftimony agaihft that bloody] Murderer, Jo'm Reid, which murdered a Wo-: aua in the Town of JNcw-milns, and nttw iscarrying/ .e )carrying Arms againft Chrfft and his Followjcrv, w' o t< ok n'c, and ccnfell to me, that he!had not an Order for it. And againft that}Fairy that carried me to Edinburgh; and eftpecully, Alexander Getnynil, my Neighbourjjfor he vexed me more then all that Pan y, foilhe faid 1 married Folk, and baptized Children,and mocked me molt dieadfully.^ A L‘ne of Advice to two or three Sors ofFolk. To you rhat are old Profeflbrs and Co¬venanters in the Well of Scotland, and dptci.ally in Kilmarnock Parifli. What are ye do-ing ? \\ here are ye now be when ye Iwurethe Covenant, and fwore againll Pripery andPrelacy, and all rhat Faction, Side and Party?How are ye profecuting the Ends of that Co¬venant, now tn the Sight of God, and theOath of God, that ye fwore with Hands lift¬ed up to the MOST HIGH GOD, andbe tore Heaven and Earth, Sun.and Moon?O my Soul trembles to think what bad Ex¬ample ye are to the young Generation, yewho fhould have been as the He-Goats be-f re the Flock, to train them up in the Way ofGod, and'the Way of Holinefs and Righre-oufnefs,.and now ye are leading them the juftcontrary : Should ye not have been more ten¬der of the Blood of the Souls of the young Ge¬neration ; as to turn y cur Back upon your Pro-feflion, and turn in with the Men of th“efe A-homijiauous in all Things ? Q far the Wrath;< 9 >lof that Cod, who has faid, Shall any Ireaki)tbe Coven‘tu, and be delivered ? Now there-*jfexe, 1 uefiie, as }-c tender your own Souls,that ye would turn again tojour full Husband,Jior it was better with you then it i$ now.Next, You that are the young Generation,Men and Women, What aie ye doing? Areye following the Fuorftcps ert your Fathers,in their Courier of Defection joining in hear¬ing thefc perjured Curares, anfwering at theirCourts, joining in their Woifhip with them, intheir abominable and Soul-deflroying Couries,contrary to the Word of God, oux Solemn Co¬venants, and ConfeJJion of Faith, Larger andShorter Catcchijns, the Order of the Churchof Scotland, in Difcipline, Wovfhip and Go¬vernment. As they, ye, and 1, is (wornwith Hands lifted up to the MOST HIGHGOD, which no Powers on Earth is able toloofe, nor undo, nor fiec from no Man, nor Wo¬man, baptized in the Name of the Father, Son,and Holy Ghofl • O therefore take heed howye think to anfwer before the great Sin-rcven-Iging GOD, before whom 1 am to appearwithin a little Space, and before whom 1 andall the World will Hand and be judged withrighteous Judgment.And likewife fhewiug that T dare not butfliew you my Mind anent fume Perfons and| their Carriage in this Day of Trouble,■ when Ziqii is lying waiie and plowed like aSkid., .. ( TO >fTr/?, T give my Teifimonv againfr thef?Men called ^Ideis in my own Pajifh, becaufd;of their Complying with every Courfc of De-.tfcdlion and Abomination that comes alongfl1through the Country; iy?, They being thought Ito be faithful Elders in the Time of the Prei~byterian Government, and -hen turned Eldersito the Curate Carnagie, and then turned El4ders to Mr. PPaddcrburn that indulged M ni*fler; and now arc Seflioners to this Cm are:And feeing this is true, that they have (he w¬ed themielvcs to be Men of no Principles, andthe Spirit of God laying exprefly, Me. dienot -with them that are given to Change ; w hocan blame me to dilown them.I give my Teftimony againfl ^ohn Bo)dtcalled Baillie of Kilmarnock for his bloodyCourlcs in many Things, and efpccially inhis uplifting of the Cels and bloody Fines,and in opprelfingthe Poor in their Confciences,and laying on of Dragoons upon than moftCruelly, which he did upon me four rimes:I wilh God may forgive him for what he hasdone in that Matter.Now according to my blefTed Lord’s Com¬mand, I am not puffed with Malice or a Spi¬rit of Revenge, but blelfes, wh-n curfed.As for thefe Men that is unjulfy taking a waymy Life, not onl y contrary to the Law of God,and the ancient Laws of the Land, but evenContrary their own Law. Now for what they• arei( 11 )ire doing to me, as I am in myfctf, T can free-y forgive them, and all others; But as they doti t againfl the Image of God in me, and uponahis Truths Account, and fo againft himlelf^6i:hat is not mine to give, but leaves it to himto whom Vengeance belongs, that he mayideal with them as he may moft glorify himfclf.O if 1 could fpeak or write any Thing to the^Commendation of the Covenanted G O D ofuthe Church of Scotland; 1 have furely many'Things to fay, for that he tryflcd my Lot totbe in a Nation, where he hath fet up his pureWorfliip; whereas he might juftly have letten(imy Lot be amongfl: Pagans, and Heathen Na-: tions, that knows nothing of the true God.Or tdly> He might have ordered it to be a-i/mongfl thefe that arc worfliipping Antichrift,ilthat Whore, that monftrous Bead, that fits up-rton many Waters; whofc Sentence may be readrinthe Heyel. xiv. ver.g. ^4nd the third An-vgel followed them, faying with a loud Voice,yif any Man worjhip the Be aft and his Image,wand receive his Mark in his Forehead^ or init his Hand, ver. to. The fame ft} all drink of theV Wine of the Wrath of God, which is pouredtt out without Mixture, into the Cup of his Indig-■: nation ; and he [hall he tormented with Fire\ and Brimftone, in the Prefence of the holy An-}gels, and in the Prefence of the Lamb : ver.in. *4nd the Smoke oj their Torment afeend-: eth up for ever and ever : *And they have no\ Reft T)ay nor Night, who worjhip the Beaftand( 1.2 )and his Image, and iu'ofcever receheth thAMark of his I^ame. And To as fure as Godwis God, and the holy Scriptures are his WordJaccording to which all Men that have heard!or feen it, (hall bc judged, having the Sen¬tence of Abfolution or Condemnation part ac¬cording thereto, Rom, ii. i 2. For as many ashave finned ivhlout Lata, (hall alfo penfh’without Law : So it is clear that the firll willfurely perifh, viz. all infidels, and Atheifts,and Heathens, and Pagans tha; knows nor thetrue God nor of his Law : And as many as havefinned in ihe Law (ball be judged by the Law:And fo whatever vain Hopes the Paptjlsmay have of being faved, living or dyingPapifis, or whatever Charity loofe Profeflors'hath on that Head to give them, they are as_far from being faved as Devils which are eter-;nally cafl out of his Prefence.^dly, I have him to blefs for this, that my 'Lot is not among corrupt Proteflant ChurchesAbroad, Lutherans and other Corruptions,1and abounding Errors, both in Doctrine, Dif-ciplinc, Woifhip and Government, SeBarian,Epifcopal or Erafiian; but in the ReformedChurch of Scotland, where all thefc Thingshath been cafl over the Hedge as nor Plantsof kis Planting, where he hath been owned inail his Offices, Prophet, Priefi, and King,though he may fay of us in a great Meafure,as to the Church of Ifrael of old, I plantedthee a noble Vine, but thou art become a de¬generate 'venerate Plant of a ft range Vine unto we, etc.[n chat Day of Planting we could have fung;hat Song. Ifa. xxvi. i. fVe haye a ftrong'Jty. Sahation will Cod appoint for ('P alls andBulwarks. Lam iv. n. The Lord hath ac-omphlhed his Fury, he hath poured out his■fierce Anger, and hath kindled a Fire in Zion,nd it hath devoured the foundations thereof.er. i 2. %he Kings of the Earth, and all the In¬habitants of the H orld would not haye believ¬ed, that the Adveifary and the Enemy Jhould.have entered within the Cates of Jerulalem.v.er. i y). For the Sins of her Prophets, and theiniquities of her Pnefts, that have Jbed theBlood'of the full in the Midft of her; ver. 14.5 hey have wandered as blind Men in the Streets,they have polluted themfelves with Blood, fothat Men could not touch their Garments. Thisi may be our Rcgrete befo.e God, as it is inthe 7 Verfe, Her ISazarites were purer thenSnow, they were whiter then Milk, they-! were more ruddy in Body then Rubies, their, Polifhmg was of Sapbire. ' ver. 8. 7 heir Vi-fage is blacker then a Coal: I hey are not knownin the Streets: Thttr ikin cleaveth to theirBones, it is withered, like a Stick, &c. O’ h©w unnatural like were it for the Mother tolet the Child the Son of her Womb perifti forlack of the Bread were fhc free of the Child’s! Blood, it perifhing for want of the livelyPreached Golpel; ver. 3. Even as the Sea-mon-I fters draw out the Breaft, they give Suck totheir9/i, . ( M )their young ones: the Daughter of my People:is become cruel, like the Ojtnches in the fPildernefs.And qthly% I have him to blcfs for this rha!I am not this Day fighting againfl him m aopen flared War, and fo bearing Arms again .him and his People, for there is no niorc inme as to myfelf^ then thefe that are cm brew¬ing their Hands deeply in the Blood of theSaints.$thly, I have him to blefs for this that everhe opened mine Eyes to fee the Myflcry ofIniquity that abounds and hath its Seat in the.Heart: As alfo in fomc Meafure, a Sight ofthe Remedy in that Blood of Jefus, with hisSpirit engaging me to himfelf, letting me echimfelf altogether precious, making me to leethat it is better to be a Door-keeper in theHoufe of God then to dwell in all the Plea-fure of Sin for a Scafon; Pfal. Ixxiii. tq. <7houfo alt guide me 'with thy Counfcl. and afterwardreceive me to Glory, v. 25. Whom have 1 inheaven hut thee? and there is none uponRarththat I defire hefides thee.6thly, I have his holy Name to blefs thatevet he honoured me to know any Thing, howfmall foever of his Pcrfecuted Truths, viz.His Crown, Kingdom and Privileges, nowwhen many by their A&s and Laws hath tak¬en his Crown and Sceptre and Royal Robefrom him, and fettled the whole Governmentof his Houfe upon a Man that is but a Worm ;. ■ ' v buttout T believe Decree will Hand, eppofe itiwbo will, Pfal ii. ^ J'et have / fet my Kingtopon my holy Hill of Z on Ifa xlii. 8. /a;*w'.bc Lord, that is my Same and my Glory\swll I not give to another, neither my Praifeto graven Images Now it is his DeclarativeJjBiory whiC'UHar Uturpcr hath taken unto him*Jjrelf. Ay bui he t^iat leadch Captivxry captive:accordin^ to his Koval Will and Word williXtclaiiVi nis own Glory ; he ir is a^one that hathi^iv n him to be the lore Foundation, where-nun all the Building is fi ly famed. That StoneShat -the Builders hatn rejofted, is made therle.d of the Corner, Ifa. xxviii. 16. -Ihere-Vfireabu> futh the Lo> d God, Behold, I lay in\ZiW for a Foundation, a Stone, a tried Stone,f precious Cot ner Stone a fare Foundation f\he that beheveth, Jhall not make hajle. vcr. 17,Wjudgtnent aijotvill l lay 10the Line and Rtgh.te on fief to the Plummet, and the Hail (ballf-veep away the Refuge of Lies, and the tfa~\ters Jhatl oveiflow the hihng Place.Jthly, I bids and magmfie the holy Namepof my God, that hath called me to be a Suf-uferer for his Work and Inrerefl, counting itiinot my Shame, but a high Privilege and dig-imifying of me, when many famous in their^Generation hath been denied of it, when fofimany is denying, and by their Practice is ren-de ing the Crols of Ch ill of no Efieft Orimy Friends, blels and magnifie your God fordthis, that ye are privileged with thefe Things,and.  c , .and ftrive to walk worthy of him in your Pla-iices, Calling, and Stations, and Relations, as'a Husband, as a Wife, as a Mailer, as a Ser¬vant, as .a Ghriftian, lludy to have a b lam clefsConverftflirn as becrines tbc Goipel as far asye can, walk void of Offence towards Godand Man. My dear Fr ends, 1 have fwcetPeace in my lovel} Lord ; he has made myPrifon become a Palace unto me, and he hasmade me many a Time to b efs him for myPot, for which my Soul fliall ptaife him throughalt Eternity. •Therefore mv dear Friends, letnone of you .thinkit fttar-ge, concerning rhefiery Trial, as though fome lhange Thing hadhappened unto me, for it is in his holy Wif.dom he has made my Lot fVeet; for nc hasmade out his precious Promifes unto me, oneof which is of more worth then all th£ World,giving me the.Wimcfs of ht^ Spirit, bearingWitnefs with my Spirit that i have a Right tofhem all.Now farewell all Things "n Time, farewellholy Scripture, farewell all Chriltian Friends,farewell Prayer and Meditation, farewell Faith,farewell Hope. Welcome Heaven, welcomeFather, Son and Holy Spirit, welcome An¬gels and the Sou's of juft Men made perfe<!ft,;welcome Praifes for evermore,' Sic Subfcribiturt)JotJN FlNiAY.■ fo •- i'- 1   > '