T H EBuxom Dame of Reading;OR, THECuckold’s Cap.TO WHICH ARR ADDEDA SMILING FULL BOWL.Wallace’s Lament after the Battle of Falkirh.I^is She not Dole enough has an Auld Man.A S U M M EH P I E C E.A V/ I N T E H P I E C E.bad luck to the penny.( 2 )The BUXOM DAME of READING.NE^A R Reading there lived a buxom dame,1 he wife of a cobler, ^Joan was, her name,Khe had a fine hen of a delicftte fize,The like you never beheld with your eyes.fhe had a red bead, grey wings, yellow legs.Each St::nmer (lie la:d a bufhtl of eggs ;And Joan lafl Summer would f?t her indeed,Tor fne was rtfolv’d to have more of her breed.And as (lie was fetting her upon a day,A (hepherd came to her, and thus he did fay ;Oh ! what are you doing ! fiie anfwer’d him then,I’m going to fet a miraculous hen.^ hy, then fays the fiiepherd, to keep the eggs warm,And that they may profper and come to no harm ;You muft fet the eggs in a large cuckold’s cap,And then all the chickens will come to good hap.1 have ne’er a cuckold’s cap, fhepherd, fays file,Dot reverthelefs I will be ruled by thee,Tor this veiy moment I’ll trudge up and down.And b orrow one, if there be one in the town.She went to her neighbour, and thus file did fay,Come lend me thy cuckold’s cap, neighbour 1 pray,I am going to fet a miraculous hea,And when I’ve done with it, Til bring it again.7 he neighbour’s wife anfwer’d, and thus reply’d,Had 1 fuch a thing you fhould not be deny’d ;Years fomteen or fifteen I have been a wife,And my hufband had ne’er fuch a thing in his life.But go to my coufin that lives at the mill,She had one 1 know, and may have it ftill ;Till her 1 fent you, fhe’ll lend it I know ;3 thank you, faid Joan, and away fne did go.Then ftraight to the houfe of the miller fhe went.And told her that (he by her coufin .vas fent,To borrow a thing that was abfolute rare,A lar^e cuckold’s cap which her hufband did wear.I do not deny but fiich things there may be,Eut why (hould my co«:ia diveiff you to me !Thefe nineteen or twepty years L have been wed,A."l my hulband had ne’er fuch a cap on his head.But go to the Quaker that lives at the Swan,If 1 am not miilaken, I think (he has one,And tell her, (he’ll lend it I know for my fake,And I for the fame a great favour will take.So (he went to the houfe of old Yea and Nay,And fpoke to his wife that was youthful and gay ;Saying, I come for to borrow, if you will but lendA large cuckold’s cap, 1 was fent by a friend.The Quaker's wife nodded, and faid with a frown* ■I han’t fiich a thing if thou’d give me a crown ;Befides, I’d not lend it, fuppofe that I haul.For fear it ihould make my poor hufband run mad.In town there are many young women, perhapsAre cunning and artful in making fuch caps ;But what are their nature, I cannot well fay,Therefore escufe rne friend Joan, l thee pray.Now Joan being tired, and weary withal.Says (he, I have no good fortune at ail ;It is the beginning, 1 think of all forrow,To trudge up and down,, and of neighbours to bewowvA poor cuckold's cfp, I would borrow indeed,A thing of fmall value, hut yet could not fpeed ;But as I’m a woman, adzooks, cries young Joan,Before it be long. I’ll have one of isy own.—*m*'i*i ± *’ &T-- C*:-* ■ ■ ■» ■— —A S M I L I M G F U L.L B O W L.WI LI. you credit a Mifer, ’tis gold makes ua wife.The uiifs of his life,, the joy of id* eyes tAna rfr a fond Lovef* vvheie wifclom he places,1 o be fure in his miitrtfs, her charms, and her graces jI'ot let the free Lad fpeak the joy of his foul,’Lis a fparkhng Glals, and a fmiling full Bowl.The Mifer i® wretched, unhappy, and poor;Tie fullers great, want in the mid It of his (fore :f he I .uVer’s c ifconfolste, m«pifhx and fad.For that which when gain’d, would foon naake him mad-,4 he MHers a Foo’, and the Lover s an -\fs.And he only’s Wife, who adores the full Glafs.Let the M;fer then hug up his ill-gotten Pelf,And to reed empty bags, he may ftarve his ownfelf.Let the Lover ih-l languifh ’twixt hope and defpair.And dcat on a face as inconilant as fair :But il.11 may his blifs be as great as his foul,Who pays no devoir but tb Wine and the bowl.' ■ - r ie v iC:   "WrtLLAtB s Lakent arter the Battle of Falkirk,Tunr—Maids of Afrochar.THOU dark winding Carton once pleafing to fee.To me thou can’ll never give pleafure again,W brave Caledonians lie low on the lee, ({lain.And thy dreams are deep ting’d with the blood of the’Ywis bafe hearted treachery that doom’d our undoing.My poor bleeding country, what more can 3 do ? .Ev’n Valour looks pale o’er the red field of ruin,And freedom beholds her bell warriors laid low.Farewel ye dear partners of peril ! farewd !Tho’ buried ye lie in one wide bloody grave,^ cur deeds Inall ennoble the place where you fell.And your names be enroll’d with the fons of the brave.But 1, a poor ontcafl, in exile mull wander.Perhaps, like a trahtyffig'nobly mud die !On thy wrongs, O my country ! indignant I ponder-—.Alt! wee to Uvi ucur. when thy Wallace tr.ufe fiy I. mni * )Has SHE not DOLE enough v,s an AULD MAKLAI. young dainfels both handiome and prettv>Come draw near unto me, fit down and ^ng*A fong of miicarriage, concerning my tfcarriage,And by daily dolour my hands I do wring.My age is fcrrce twenty as plain doth appear,I niarned an old man of feventy-three year,And by my mifguijmg yon may verr veil ken.What ihouid a young woman do v/ith an old man !He’s fntiffing and fneeaing, he’s banning and f.vearing,He’s hard o’ the hearing, he canna weel fee ;He fumbles and grumbles, and over he tumbles.And what is his fnoring, alas! unto (te ?His pate it is bald, his beard it is thin.Rough is his hair, and hard is his iki.i ;His breach it is Itrong, his face prale and wan^And that’s the had properties of an auld man. \When he down lietli, he groaneth. he crieta,As ane were a dying tricolour and pain ;In dead of love-ktJUs, ho itches and {cratches,Himfelf lie oiuftretchetri wit!: groaning a fain.But when he lies down at ten o’ the clock.Turns firfl: to the wall, and th :u to the 'lock ;then wipe the tears, now as they down run,•And fay woe to the. day, ere I faw an arid man !Young giglet he cafe me, anv! fays he wi 1 lame me,’V outtg gig., t he ntfmes mg, and fometimes a whore ; ^But baud thy tongue auid man, and fav nae mftir fuch.Fain would f fay cuckold, but I think as much.But I will lay by my mafic and my fan,And bid wo to the day ere 1 faw an auld man !.Dtherwife for to crop hint. I wi!} do the beft,And with Lis old feathers I’ll build a new neft.A SUMMER PIECE.WHEN the tree? all their beautiful -verdure renew,and the meado'«9 look charmingly gay,When foiling Creation looks bloforaing to view,replete with the beauties of May.When the light-hearted fhephetd chants mufjcal drains,as he pips to his flocks cn the hill ;And the lambkins delighted, ikip biyth o’er > he plain,or frifle by the muivauring nil.When the cows round the country a gadding repair,or bmeatb the cool (hade Isun the heat ; (pare.When the critnfon-cheek’d milk maid does kindly pre¬fer her fweetheart a fy’labub treat.WT!!en the country girls wantonly fport in the deep,fo cautious, that all nr.ufl be hi;(h,Yet oft the fly ruftic procutes a full peep,from the tide of a hillock or buih.At eve when the lads and the laifes do meet,in a circle to dance on the green ;What a native irmplk ity void of deceit,and modefty (lamp’d on their mein ;While the birds feero infpir’d by the foiling ftrene,in muiicnl melody vie ;And the hares nr tad the corn-folds they fafety remain,or feeure in the green meado ws lie,In a fr eg rural cottage furrounded by trees,where murmuring rivulets glide,M-y attendants be plenty, contentment and eafe,i-. fclitude let me rtfide.Where grant me kind Powers in this feafon of love,a fond fair one my bi- fs to complete,Whole tender endearments can fadnefs remove,aiia imparadife this my retreat.A WINTER PIECE.W H E N the trees were all hare, rot a leaf to be feeBsend the meadows their beauties had loft :i. all Nature difrob’d of her mantle of green,End the rivers boune! up by the froft.hen the peafant iru'.ftive Hands fhivering with cold,t s1-6 t'le kkak winds northerly blow ;i he innocent lambs feud away to their fold,with their fleeces all covered with fnow.In the yard where the cattle w-ere fodder’d with ftraw,and they fend forth their breath kfce a ftream ;And tue neat looking dairy-maid fees (he tnuft thawflakes of ice Ihe beholds on the cream.There the fweet country.maiden as frefh as a rofe,Ihe carelefly fl'ps and then Aides ;Then the ruftic laughs loud, if by falling (lie fliows,all the charms which her modeliy hides.When the lades and the lafles in company join,and fet round the embers, they chat;a.aik of witches and fairies, that ride on the wind,and pf Ghofls till they’re all in a fweat.When the birds to the barn-door comes hov’riag for food,-and they earntftly drop from their fpray ;Then the poor frighted hare in vain walks the wood,Jeft her foot-fteps her courle fhould betray.Heaven grant in that feafon it may be my let,with tne maid whom 1 love and admire,While the ice-fickles hing froip the eves of my cot,may we live therein fafely retir’d.In peace and in pleafure, and free from all care,may we live and each other admire ;find thus in due feafon when ficknefs falls out,then each of each other may take care.I( 8 )BAD LUCK TO THE PENNY.WHAT can a young tsfTk*, what fnall a voting lalTie, |Whr.t can a young I a flu* tlo wi’ an auld man !Bad luck on the penny, that l-emptcd my inimiieTo fell her poor Jenny for filler and l?.n’ 1Bad luck on the penny, that tempted my tr.incts, etc.He's alwr.yt com pie en in* fvae mciHMii’ to e’en in’,He hofts and ha hirples the weary day lang ;He’s doy’lt and he’s dozin, Uis hlude it is frozen,0 dreary’s the night wi’ a crazy tiuld man ! Bad, etc. _He hums and he bankets, he frets and he cankers,1 never can pleafe him, do a’ that I can ;He’s peeviHi, and jealous of a1 the young fellows,O, dole on the day f met v.i’ an au'd man. Bad, etc.Idy auld auntie Katie, upo’ ire taks pity.I’ll do my endeavour to follow her plan ;I’ll crofs, him and wreck him. until I heart-break him, :And then his auld brafs will buy me a new pan. etc.   ■■irth&u. if qjtlgianwaw—iTHE N E A T L I T T L E COTTAGE.Mv Mam is no more, and fay Dad’s in his grave,Little orphans are fitter and I, fadly poor :Indiiftry cur wealth, and no dwelling we have, ,But you neat little cottage that ttands on the moor, iThe lark’s early fong docs to labour invite,Contented, wejutl keen the wolf from the door ■Ann Phsebus retiring, trips home with delight,To our neat little cottage that Hands on the moor. 1Our meals are but howdy mirth fweetens the cheer, IAfiedt.on’s our inmate, the gneft we adore ;And heart-eafe and health make a palace appearOf our neat little cottage that Hands on the moor. «C I. A S G U VV,P*rST£D£Y J. AND .M. Rob SU TSOV, SO,} SA1TM A?.5tXTl,i Sep.