THE WITTY AND ENTERTAININGEXPLOITSJ OFGEORGE BUCHANAN,WHO WAS COMMONLY CALLED THE• KING’S FOOUTHE WHOLE IN SIX PARTS COMPLETE.EDINBURGH*Pt’mteibf J. Morfcn Campbell’i Clofe»» 8 o ft( * )The Witty and Entertaining .EXPLOITS, kb.Mr. GEOPGE BUCHANAN was e Scotfman bora,and of mean parentage, made gre^t pregreft in learning.—As forliis nnderftandisg and ready wit, he exceeded all menthen alive in that age, that ever propofed «ueflion» to him.—He was fervant or teacher to King James VI- as hisprwvy counfellor, bat publicly he afted as his fool.It happened one day, that a young airy nobleman,.wentinto the King's garden, to pull a flower for a young ladyhe fancied. George followed at a diflance, and when thoyoung man found the flower to his pleafure, he would notpull it himfelf, but to find it again without further flecking,covered it with his bat, a-nd went away for his fweetheart,—No foonerwas begone, hut up goes Georges lifts the bat,and pulls the flower, then cafes himfelf on the fpot, and co¬vered it with his hat again, and away he goes,—In comesthe young man, leading his fweethcart to pul! the flower be¬low the bat 5 but as foon as he lifted the hat, and feeing whatwas below, he looked like a fool: the lady flies in a paffion,and off fne goes, never to countenance him any more. Theyoung man being fully vexed at this affront done to him byGeorge, flent him a challenge to fight him, appointed a dayand place where they were to meet being to fight on horfe*back, George gets an old ftiff horfe, andfor harnefling covershim abaut wi.h blown bladders, with a few little fmall Honesin each, without either fword or fpear, and away to the fieldhe goes, where the duel was appointed ; fo when George lawBfs enemy coming againft him, all in glittering armour arm¬ed with-fword and fpear, he rode up to his horfe, (asis faid)being jfl covered with bladders ; the fmall ftones in thetamade fuch a terible ntife, that the gentleman’s fine geldingwould not ftsnd the battle, but ran away and threw his maf.ter on the ground, which canfed all the fpeftators to laugh,and fay, the gentleman was more fool than George. Thegentleman being fo enraged at the fecond affront, he wouldfight with George on foot ^ but his friends perfuaded himthat it would be no honour to him to fight and kill the king’sfool, and far lefs to be killed by the fool j fo they were advif-fecth to agree. J3ut the gentleman would try anothcr ex.-ploit with George, for to have is faiJ he was the eleTereftnaan, to hold him a jumpiag-bout publicly the next day there¬after. With all my heart, fays George, and we will end inand about where we began; they not knowing his meaningin this. The place and hour being fet where tbey were tameet next morning, George in the night caufed a deep pit tobe made, and the earth of it carried away, afterwards tilled itup with the dung,of a priry, and covered it with a greeaturf, fo that it might not be known by the other gronad ; foaccording to promife, both met in the morning, againfl thetime appointed. Now George being the oldeft man, and bythem counted the greateft fool, the young man permittedhim to jump full, which he according to order performedj imping within a foot of the place, where the ground waafaltified, the young man feeing this, made his performanceafterwards with great airs and all his might, lo that be jump¬ed a foot over George, up to his oxters among clean dung ;whereat the whole multitude of fpe&ators cried out withhuzza and laughter. Now, fays George, l told you w«would end in and about where we began, and that is iaclean dirt.On a time after this, the king and his court were going in¬to the country, and they would have George to ride beforethem in the fool’s drefa, whereunto he feemed unwilling, yetit was the king’s pleafure, fo George was mounted on an oldhorfe, a pair of old riven boots, with the heels hanging dowaa palmer ooat, patched over with pi&nres all of divers kinds tGeorge rode before them in this pofture, which caufed greatlaughter aud diveriion, until they came to an inn, wherethey alighted to dine, and in the rime they were at dinner,George went into the ftables, and with a knife cut all thehorfes chafts, not fdre, but fo as they might bleed. Nowat foon as dinner was over, and they mounted on theirhorfes again : George ricing before them, as ufual, in hispalmer eoat and boots, they began to make their game ofhim ; then George turned about fuddenly, and clapping bishands with loud laughter, they aiked him what made himlaugh fo ? Laugh, fays George, how can I but laugh I whet*horfes can’t hold their peace: Gray fovereign, fays George,don’t you fee how the horfes have rent all their drafts laugh¬ing at my old boots J then every man looking at his horfesmouth, they were all in rage againft George; the king eaufedhim to be difmounted dtrcclly, and cliarged him never to letturn fee his face again on Engiifh ground. Now George( 4' )inowing that nothing could reconcile the king at this tijne,he can;c awaj’' to Scotland, and cauled to make hirn a pair oflarge boots ai.d to put a quantity of Scottifh earth i» each ofthem, and away he goes for England to fee. the king cncemore. He hearing the fng and his court was to pafs througha country village, fieoi ge places hiiufelf up in an old window,and fets up his bare arfc to the king and hi* court, as they 'p.ifTed by. The king was greatly amazed to fee an ttnufualfeounor done to him. was curious to know the performer ; foke called unto him, afking him to come down, and Sliding itto be George, Sir lays the king, did not I charge you never tolet me fee out face again ? True n;y fovereign, fays George,for, which I let you fee my aife ; nay, but fays.the king, yourt'asrevex to come on EngliHi ground again ; neither [ do,fays Gec^ ge- pulling eft hi? hoo.8 before the king, faying, be¬hold my fovercTgu, it is all Scots earth 1 hand upon. TheUng and his court being fo diverted with this merry joke, 'George was again admitted into the king’s favour. •Ai ..r this, there arofe a debate betwixt the king aad Idsqueen about t wee in the parliament, as the king had twovotes, and the queen would have one, and would needs be aparliamcnter, or no peace without this preferment ; this mat¬ter was committed to George fcyt! e king, fo it was agreedwith the parliament, that the queen fhould be admitted into,the parliament for one day, and accordingly fhe came, andwas received With all the honours and congratulations os were^He and becoming her high fiction ; but before any matter of ■ecnftquence was brought to the board, George fixed himlelfhard to the queen’s feat : all being filent, he rote up very■quickly ; and lifting up one of bis legs, and then gave a great 11feet: which let the whole hbufe a laughing; whereat the-queen was gieatiy offended, crying, go. take the rouge midfcan ghim ; to which George anivvered, a fine parliameuter in-*leed, to hang a man for a finltfa infirmity,'and that’s e fart,The queen being fio enraged at this affront put upon her fi ftjpropr lVl of parliament, went off in a paffion and never would•oantenunce them any more. J’,ut yet to be revenged onGeorge, flic would never give the king tell till he had deliver- -#d np tjccrge into her hands that he might be puni/b d at.-licr p’eafure ; which the king rccordiuglv commanded to be.klciic, knowing that George would ufeue himfclt by fome in-.<r»gu« or other. No icorer .was George delivered fit to hepffe*«ds for U> bt M ter difpotV, but ihc and htrr maidais p:a-» 1■mC 3 i4Ve«i*?eJ Us fioo.n, which Was as follows: A* he had affr#net!'the '|rtfcn fo Srfat a» tauTpage, who ou^ht to be heCored in chief,- and absue a!i woman in that nation, that ho.iho'ild be Jtoned to death by the hands of women. Now hlatiaie t.vz conic that he Sioiild die, according to appointnseathe w.-.s^ ta .en into a paidc, where a great number of womenwas waiting wuh their aprons full 0f ft ernes, to fa!! upon bii«aca put Mitn tp dca^i accordfnor to the queen’s appointment#HIS SPEEGM TO HIS EXECHTON£ft3tHere’s a female band with bags of tiones,To kill ^ mm for rample groans,I’m clean of rapine, blood su*d theft*.Could I convert'my farts to rifts ;Sites i the Gift for farting die,Clofe the hole from whence they fly,To commit my crime I tUnk you’ll fcarc*If once you do cork up your arfe ;And fince that woman the fiones da carryMen need not in the world tarry,Judge it fuch women be ckafte complete,With forty ftoncs'between their feet IBut fince it’s fo, you may come on.The greateft whore throw the firti done.Wlien he had ended thefe word*, that the greatcflfliould throw the firft {tone, every one'put it to •notberu*call the lirft fione, but knowing that they would attain thecharacter of a whore tor fo doing, they all refufed till thedying hour was pati, and then he took a pro left againft them )and by fuch meat:* faved his life.1 Alter this he Was admitted to> the rpteen’s favour and per*"fence, attending the court as formerly. About thi* time ifmF/ench king nut knowing how to pick a quarrel with Grawc- Britain, feut a letter to the king defirmg it to be r<v*i before-the pailiiunent, and tlie wriling wa.s as follows,: Will I comoWilt I come ? Vv ill I come, ? This letter feeing reau over bw-fore the king and Ids courtiers, they sil c mcluded chat ttoFrench king defigoed to invade E igland j therefore theywrote a letter, on purpole to fend him again, upbraiding binJ - with the breach of peace, and puttii g him in rrfnd of the lad:| treaty j this letter being read betore t!i« king und hit uobalcthey all concluded that it fhouid bt lent as an anCwcr if * >Cfeorgc finniing ar^ fh-king; his head, criedMany men many mind?,Who knows what he dcii.rns-?Then they aiked George what he thought the French kingineant by fuch a letter ? to winch he anfwered. I fuppoG- hett'ants an Invitation to conic over todinner and then go backin a friendly manner, but you are going to charge him witha breach of peace, before he has given any fignai of offencewar- Ills letter is yet dark and miflica], but give himtn anfwer acording to his queltion.Now George being ordered to write the anfwer, it wagAnd ye tome. And ye come. And ye come. Tim beingTent to the French king, he admired it beyond exoreffioh, -faying it was an anfwer more valiant and daring than he e£-Jefted : fo the enmity he intended was extingui/hed therebyand turned into love.About this time it happened, that a malignint party isScotland, fent up a great fpokefmsn to the king and parli-raent for the feducing of the chnrch : George hearing of hiscoming, went away and met him on the bridge, and the Ta¬bulation that he gave him was the cutting off his head, andthrowing it over the bridge; tl»en fan to the king with allIiis*tiight, falling down before him, pleading moft earneftlyfor a pardon, for without it he was a dead man. The kingmod enrionfly alkcd him, what he had done now : To whichhe anfwered. lie had only thrown the Scot’s bifhops hat over .1the bridge, which made the king laugh to hear him alk par.don for inch a imall fault j but he had no looner got thepardon fealed by the king’s hand than he faid, indeed my >fovereign I threw his hat over the bridge, but his head wasin it. Geordie, Geordie fays the king, thou wilt never giveover till tiiou be hanged.After this a nobleman in England, agreed with the king,how to put a trick upon George, to try his msnly courage,m fending him to a certain houfc for a bag of money. OnAis way horns through St. Jail’s Park they caufcd a (fur- ‘oy fellow to go and let the way upon him and take the mo-f*cy * h« being armed with a fword and pidol, coming upbrijkly, and atteked George with thefe words, You multdeliver up what money you have, or you are a dead man,Xo which George anfwered, Sir, I have money indeed, but^>5 ixh my own, and I am lorry to give it ; neverthc efs,-Mice l am not armed as you are to exchange blows for it,yos fln!l h»y« it; Vat pray do me the firytr ai to fire yourthrough the flap £»f my coat^. t!iat the oxners mayfee I have been is danger of my life before I loti the monay fwhich he accordingly performed, No fooner had he fired,then George whips out his hanger from below his cloak andvrith one ftrske cut of rus right hand wherein- he held the'■{word, fo that both his fwori and hand fell t-a the ground ; .but Gearge lifted Ids hand and carried it to the kin;- N*fooner did be come before Kina, bat they vlted li.in, faying.Well Gaorge did you meet any lj;>Ay :* trouble }'t>u by the•way ? No, faid he, but a fellow who was going to take themoney from me ; but I made him g ve his hand he wouldnot do tire like again. You did, fays the fellow’s raster jYes I did, fays George, let the work bear witnefs, throwingdown the fellow a hand on the table before them all.Now this laid exploit of George’s caufed many of thaEnglilh to hate him, and among the reft a young noblemaafell a joking of George, in faying be would be as famous achampion tor Scotland, as Sir William Wallace was. Ay,ay, fays George, William Wallace was a brave man in histime. True indeed, fays the other, but when he came toLondon, we did hint all manner of juftioc, aud for honoufof the Scots, we have kis effigy is in the fltite houte till tintvery day. And do you know th* realon of that fays'George*No, 1 don’t, fays he. Well, I’ll tell you, fays G. orge, h«■was Inch a terror to the E o-.lilhmen wlum he was alive, thata fight of him yet makes them beffiit themfclvcs. The imigliffitook this anfwer as a great affront, aud frativwith caufedWallace’s pifture to be take* out of that place.There was a young Engliih girl in love with a ScOtfmiand petititoned him fcveral times to marry her, winch herefufed, and upon revenge, therefore, went to a juffice andfwore a rape againft him, which i* death lay the law, Georgehearing of this, went Into the prifon wher : the young m mwas, and in ft ruffed him how to behave before rhe judge..So in the time of the trial, George came in, wtnle the judge-was crying to the man, but never a, word could he^get ou^of him to anfwer, to tell whether he was guilty or not. Af¬ter the judge had given him over to be deaf aud dumb, othersfe'd affronting iu his ears, but never a word wou d he fpeak.Then th« Judge perceiving Gearge, cadsd to him, layingGeorge do you know what is the matter with this man?Yes I do very well. What ia it ? fey the Judge. Why^ < 3 >ftvs Gtori't tnc WoW-.a mue fiiclt n novfa aiid crying whesJ;c tfjs taTifhmg her, it ha* puctht'pooi man dfaF I afFurajoh. la it fo, laid the Jud.^e. No, na, fays the woman myLoi’d Judge, you may well believe me, I lay aa a lamb, andnever fpohe a word all the time. Very w«ll cbnfeffed, fiysthe Judge, and you hare {worn a rape againlHiim go, micethe whore to Newgate, and fc* the paor man about iris hufi-aefa. And fo it ended.r a jr. t n.-Ct¥.orge happened one night to be in company with a ISi {hop, and To they fell to an argument about retigj^n, wherein George got the better of him, and thy IIifhop himfelffound he was wrong : then one of the company addrttTedhimfclf to George in thefe words : Thou Scot, faid he,ought not to have l<^ft thine own country- For what ? fay*George, becaufe thou hail brought all the knowledge in italong with thee. No, no, fays <Xeorge, the Shepherds nr, Scotland will argue with any Biiliop in England, aitd ex¬ceed them mighty far in knowledge. The Enghlh clergy,took this as a great affront, and feveral noblemen affirmedit to be a1 George had faid. Wagers were laid thei eon, andthree of the Engldh clergv were chofen and Cent away toScotland, to difpute with the flrepherds, accompanied withfevfral gentlemen who were to be as witnrfTes of what theybeard pafs between them. Now* George knowing what waythey were going, took another road and came into the ScoSsbounds before them, made up his accquaintance with a Shf»- 1herd at the border, whofe pafhire lay hard bv the way tidewhere the clergymen were to pals, and here George mount¬ed himieif in a fhepturd’s urefs, and when he favv the cler-gymaa coming, he conveyed iris flock to the way fide, wherebe fell a iinging a Latin fpng ; and foyo begin the quarrelone of them afLed him in Greek what countryman he was,to which be anfwered in Flemdli, if you knew that youwould be as wife as ynyfelf- The next a fired him in Dutch,where was you educated ? which he anfwered ia EarTe,herd¬ing my flieep between this and Lochabcr; this they beggedhim to explain into Englifh, vvIrich he accordingly did. Nowfaid fhc one to the other, we. n^d not go any further,What, fays George are you butchers> I’UTclI you a fewfheep. To this they , made do anfwer j but went away« V V /Rinmefully, Avenring the Scots haJ g' y.e Mirougli aM thenations in the world »o learn their laiigunj e^o the devil lu gtaught,them it. for wc have no (hare here but (harm*.After George had ended the.• rliTpute with the Enjjfifliclergymen, he ifript oil his fhepiitrds’s drefs and rp tluoughEngland withal’ the halte imaginable, fo tint he arrived asthe plaee From whence they fet out, three days befi re them,and went every day afking if they weree rme, thaf jie nvg.itnot be fufpected. Ifow upon their arrival all they that were•oncerned in the matter, and many more, came crow ling t<*know what was done.—No fooner had the three gentlemandeclared whst had. pail between the clergymen and the fiicp-Lerd whom they found on the border, but the Bifhop, madeaftftver, and tliink you, Gid he,that 9 thepherdcould anfwcrthefc quedioirs ? It has been the devil, for the Scots rounder*theaafeNes could not do it, thry are but ignorant of fuchrra:ter‘s a parcel of hcardlefe boys. Then George thoughti: was time to lake fpeech in hand. Well my Lord Btlhopsfays he, you call them a parcel' of ignorant breadUf> boy s :•you have'a great long beard yourfrlf my Lord Qiftiop, andif the grace of God were tneafured by b■ards, you bishopsand tire goats wculd have it all, and that will to quiteaverfcfrom the Scriptures. 'What,L) s tire Bifhoj),5jeyoua Scot ?Yes. fays G-eorgc, L am<a Scot. VVTeli. fays the Bi!hop,andwhat i: the d.iTereucc betweeu.a Scot and a Sot ? Nothing•t preftnt, fays George, but th* breadth of the table, (ther*feeiug a table between the Bilhop ..nd Gcoegc.) So the Bufiiop went ofC in a paffion, while the whole multitude*C/e,lih'f to fpl.t their jaws with laughter.Alxut this time there was an adl of parliaments for thebenefit of murderers, that any perfon who comm tud mur.dtr, rf they forfeited five La.tdr :d merits, Which wen; under-the the natvic-sf Kin B'ot, befcaufc fo much of this fioe went,to thw r/iUrdered peifun’s, neared relatious, as the price ofblood, and the murderer got,a remit. Now George brow*ing this to be contrary to Mofes’s laws, war very ranchgrieved to fee fo many pardons fealed with the king’s handfor murder, almoft one every week; it being fo tifualfor the bng to febferibe them that he did not read them, uo»enquire what they were ; for which caufc George wrote a.right to the crown, and fent it to the king to be fubficriberswhich he adtunly did, and never looking what it was re¬turned it to George: no foontr had he received it, but he( )jgoes to t'ie kin^ and told him it wag not time for bitn nowto fit there ; whereat the king- was greatly amazed and dart¬ed up ; then George in a great haf'e fett himielf down inthe king’s chair, forthwith declared kimftlf king, faying.Yen who was Ling, mud be a tool for I am now the wife ft.man. The king at this was greatly offended, until GeorgeSlewed him his feal snd fubfeription .but from that day forthhe knew what he fubfi rihed.The next pardon t1 at came to be fealed to the king, wasa gentfemzn that had killed two men before, and had gotpardons for them by money. Inis being the third, the kingfeemed fileui iu looking over the pe.icion. George dancingby, afked the Ling what he was going to foal now ? Towhich he anfwered, it is a remit for a man that has killedthree men ; t fundry times'} I have given him two remits be¬fore. O lays George he has killed none but one man. Andwho killed foe oilier two ? fays the king. You did, lay*George ; for if you had given him jufitice when he killed thefirft, he had killed no more. When the king heard thefewords, he threw down the pen, and declared that fuch an adtto fave a murderer Jliould be null ever afur him^One day after this, George having no money, he goes a-way, and gels a pick andfpadc, and then falls to digging ata corner of the king’s palace, which the king perceivingfrom his window, calls what he was wanting there ? Are yougoing to undermine my heufe, and make it fall i No, myfovereign, faid he, but it is verily reported, that there isplenty of money about this houfe, and where it can be,fays George, I cannot find, for it is not within the houfe todo me for. ice, then finely it mu it be below it. O George,that is a crave after the new foihion ; what money youwant, I’ll order it to you. Then my fovereign, I’ll digno more.One day after this, George being in the country, he cameto an inn where he alighted to retreili himfelf and his horfe;the inn keeper charged him double pi ice for every thing heCalled for: George never gnnnbled at this, but y>,ave him*11 fcis demands, and away he goe" on his journey: andwhere he quartered the night following, he was ufed afterth« fame manctr, if not woife. Now George came to theinn wheie he refrelhed himfolf the day befoic t io when healighted, the boy, afked him, Sir, whit fhali I give your%orfe? What you will boj', fayt George. No foensi hadf *» )fee gone into his room, bet the drawer aft.-d him. Wba-iwill yon have to drink, fir ? What you will, fayi George.The mailer of the inn came j’nto his room before flipper*afked him, What will you have for fupper, fir ? What youwill. Landlord, fays George. Now, after, fupper beingended, and a hearty bowl to put all over, George went tobed, and got up pretty early in the morning, called for theboy tomn :e ready his borfe in all hafte, for he defigned tomount him, and go dire&ly : fo in a fliort time went intothe liable where the boy was, calling for his horfe, andmounted him with all the fpeed h* could, giving the boy apiece of money, faying, Here my boy, this is for your tak¬ing care of my horfe ; L have paid for all I called for in thehoufe ; and off he goes. Now, about mid-day be alightedagain at an inn to refrelh himfelf and his horfe, and therehe chanced to be in company with his other landlord wherehe was the night before, and charged him with the doublereckoning ; fo George addreffed himfeif to him, after thiamanner: Sir, fays George, I dr. believe 1 was in your houfeyefternight, O yes, fir, I mind of you very well; and wherewas you laft night ? Laft night! fays George, 1 was in oneof the fined inns, and the civile!! landlords ever I had inmy life ; they brought all things 1 fi^d in need of unto mewithout calling for it, and when I came off this morning,they charged me nothing, and I paid nothing but fixpenceto the boy for dreffmg my horfe. Blood ard wounds ! faysthe old fellow, then I’ll go there this night. Aye, fays.George do ; and mind this, when they a!k you what willyou have for yourfelf and horfe, anlwet nothing but whatyou will. fir. Now George ftniled within himielf to think,how he grit the one extortioner q take amends of the other.So the foreiaid inn keeper rode that night until many of thei people of the inn were gone to bed before he came in. Nofooner had he alighcod'from his horle, than the boy alkedhim, what fiiah I give to your horfe, mailer ? To which he; anfwejed, what you will boy. The boy hearing thi-, run*;1 away, (leaving him and his horfe to Hand at the door) upI ftairs to his mailer’s room, crying, mailer, mailer, what yottr will is come again. O the rogue, cries, he where is he ?t I’ll cane him : I’ll what you will him bye and bye, and toj. him be run# with his cane, licks him and kicks him, untilhe was Icarce able to mount his borfe and would give himHo encouragement there, which caufed him to ridelength of a whole long coiJ wiftt-r njght, after he had got-his bones a!!'beat' end bruU’eJ : f j thf one pdrliwij the otheras a ntiirdeier, and Ills defence was, that he was a cheat aada fcoufcrol'his lionf.-, until the truth was found out.About this time, the French King lent and'demandedfrom the King of.England, three men of difFsrent qmlities,the one was to be a mighty ftrong’man, the a verywife man. and the third .a great fed, fo that he might havenone in al! France to miftch them in their flatoins. So ac.cqrdingly there were t .- o jrfen choieo, the one a Tirong m: ti,and tlie other a wife man, but George was to add as a fool ;nevertheiels hc^vaa the teacher of the other two. And ontheir way to France George afleed the ftrong man, What willyou anfwcr the French, king if he afles you if you be a ilrongman ? I will lay I am. ihen, lays George, he’ll get aft conger man thin you, who may kill you, and affront your •*country. What ffall I fay then, laid the ftrong man ? Whyfays George, tell him you are ftrong enough u.,tired. Thenfays George to the wife man, and what will you fay to theking, when he r.lks you if you be a wife man ? 1 will tellhim I am, and anfwer aH the queffiony I know. Very well,fays George, and what if he ilks you whac you do not knovrthen you will affront your country, and be looked u/von a»a greater fool than mo ! What fhajl 1 anfwer then / laid thew ife man. Why fay* George to him. he is only a Wife manwho can take care of himfclf; and I lhali come in after vou •?nd take you off altogether. • No fooncr were they come tothe king s palace, then the Jc-ng lent for thei* to try them.'1 , c he ftrong man being firft. called for, in he goes : then thekit g a Iked him, are you a ftroug man fur To which he*nlwtred, ‘ O king, I am ilrong enough untried-’ Verygood, fiid the king. Alter him entered the wTjfe man jeto■whom the ting put the queffion, Sir, *re you a wife man?He is only a wife man tl)»t can take care of himfelf.’—Very good, fays the king ; with that George pufhes up thedoor, and in he goes, with,'loud laughter, piffes dirc&ty inthe king’s face, .which blinded both his eyes, and fet thowhole court in zmzz-- . Now, now, fays the king, it is-trueenough the wife man fay?, for iff had^ taken care of attfelfX-Ufeded i o' b> en piffe-J u on by the Englifft fool. O hofays George, tools always itrive to make faojs ofothe,^‘Jbui wite men ni ke fools of thenffeives. The king nnogin-,jd us much as he was made the greater fool, and ehsrgcdC *3 )tliem'ToTttuvitI) fo £'> home, tor he wanted no raore of Eng¬land’s Rrengih, wifdom.nor folly.One night after this, a Highland drover chanced to !iav«r drinking, bent with an Englilh captain of a ihip, and atlaff, the- Englifh captbn and he came to be very hearty «vertheir cups,- fo they called hi their i’ervants to have a ihare oftheir licpior ; the drover’s fervant lookfng like a wild mail*g-oing without breeches, ftockings, or feoes^ not'f* mtich aia bonnet on his bead, with a long pcelhi rung in his handThe captain afkcd how long it was fiuce he catched hi.a : a-bo’Jt two years fmee I hmled him out of the fea.whh a netand afterwards lie rah into-the mountains, wh, rc I chaced•him with a pack of hounds. Hie capt in believcci it was io,but fays he, I have' a fervant the bed fwimmer in Europe.O but fays the drovtr, niy fervant willfwim him to death;-No, fays the captain, I will lay two hundred guineas on itThen fays the drover, I hold it for one, and (lakes itdirectly j the day being appointed when trial was to. bemade. Now the drover, when became to htmfdf, thinkingwhat a bargain he had made, did not know1 what to do*knowing very well his fervaht could fw'un none. He hear¬ing of George being in town, who always was a good friendto a Scoidnan, went unto him, and told him the wholedory, and that lie wojjld be entirely broken, and never durdreturn home to hi? own 'country, for he was fure to lofe,—Nov^Geurge called the drover a .d his fervant ahde ; »ikIiuftructed thtm how to bring him off with fifety and gaintoo j fo a- cordingly they met at the place appointed : Thecaptain’s fervant (tripped, directly and threw himfclfinto t!i«fea, taking a turn until the Highlandman was ready, forthe drover took for e time to put his fervant in order, afterhe was llrippcd, his mafter took a plnid, and rolled his keb-buck of ebeefe, a big loaf and a bottle of gin in it, and thishe bound on Ida fhouldera, giving him a direction to tell hit'frite and children he was well ?"anti to be fure he returnedwith an anfwcr againfl that day fen’uigqt.. So h; went intothe fea then he looked,back to his mailer, and cries outto hiu*for his claymore. And what wai’.s'he now for, fays he ‘thowas to fwim along with him ? lie wants Irs fward. fays hismalrer. H i f vord, fays the fe’low. what is be ta do witfrA {word ? Wav , fays themader, if ke meet a whale or mt>»-(trous li all, it is tu defend hi? life ; l. know he will have t«£0ht hi# v,3 J through the north^taa, or iie go, tc LstintsavC t4 )T^ien crlra thcotlier, I will fu im none with him if he tafceahis fword. A'h, but fays hia rnaflcr, you (hall, or lofe thewager, take you another fword with you. No, fays thefellow, I never did fwim with a fword, nor any man elfethat ever I faw or heard of j f know not but that wild-likeman wi:l kill me in the drep water, I would not for thewhole world ventnre myfelf with him and a fword. Thecaptain feeing his fervaiy. afraid to venture, or if he did, hewas fure never again to fee him alive, therefore he deliredaaagreement with the drover, who at firit feemed unwilling,but the captain put it in his will: fo the drover quit himfor one hundred guiiieas: This he came to through George?»tdvice*PART III.After this, George being in Cornwall about feme bfl®Htjefs, when he chanced ro run (hort of money, and not know*ing what to do, not being acquainted with any in that coun¬ty. and knowing his landlord to be loyal to the govern¬ment, and a great favourite to the king his mafler, he takesA piece of'brick and brays it into a fmall powder mixed with* little chalk, fo that rt might frem in colour like Arfenick,which is firong poifon. 4 Then tying it up in papers, writing«n this dire&ion, 4 The ftrengeft poifon for the king,’ and onthe other paper. The flowed poifon for the queen.' Outke goes on purpofe, and leaves the papers lying on the tablewhere he knew they would be looking at them : The land¬lord perceived the dint&ion : fo in comes George in greatkafte and cslls out, ‘ O landlord, did you fee two imallbundles I have lofl, for I know not what I (hall do, for itIras my main bufinefs to take them to London.’ O ymimurdering rogue 1 cries the landlord, I will have you hang-fd for what you intend. George at this time made off, andwm going to fly forth, but the landlord called for afliftsnee tfo he was apprehended and mads prifoner ef fiaie, and carriedto London ny a troop of feorfe, when the people there beganto know him, and told who be was, his guard flipt awayfhamdully and left him : fo George thanked them for theirgood company and fafe convoy,There was a law mane againt wearing fwords at balls andjdTemblie* in »he reign of King James the VI. breaufe theywere inconvenient ej« thefe oecaiione, But George to bdwitty in tbe aft, provided himfelf with a very lbn£ fcahbard,and jot himfelf introduced to a ball where the king and hiaCourr were prefent. George made fevera) turns through thecompany, making his fcabbord bit agaiaft their fliins, andfometimes iiipt in below a lady’s fardiagal: and in fhort mo-leded the company fo much that he was taken notice of, andfeized as a perfon who had incurred the penalty of the aQaforefaid. Bat George excufed himfclf, telling them, thattl’.e law was only againft fwerdi, and as he only wore a {'cab-bard, was no ways liable. At feeirg this, '"the king and hiseotirt were convinced that the law was imperfeftj and thatGeorge had more wit titan tbmcfelvcs,George one day eafing himi'elf at the fide of a hedgewas cfpiedby an Englifh ’Iquire who began to mock him, ifk-ing him why he did not keckle like tire hens ? But George,whofe wit was always ready, told him he was afraid to ken*kfe, left he would conic and fnatch up the ege. Which m«buff made the fcpiire wrdked off as mute as a ft(h.George w as profcflbr of the College of St, Andrews, andflipt but one day in his gown and flippers, and tvent to h»travels through Italy, and feveral other foreign countries,and after feven years returned with the fame drefs he wentoff in ; and entering the College,, took pofft flion of his featthere, but the proffefor in his room quarrelled him for f»doing. Says George it is a very odd thing that a man can¬not take a walk in his flippers, but another will take up hisfeat..* And fo fet the other proffeffor about his bnfinefs.George was met one day by three bifhops, who paid himthe following compliments. Says the firit, Good day, fatherAbraham ; fays the fccond, Good day, father Ifaae ; fays thethird, Good tby, father Jacob, To whom he replied, ‘ I amneither father Abraham, father Isaac, nor father Jacob ; butI am Saul tbe fon of Kifh f<-.nt out to feek my father’s affet,and lo ! 1 have found three of them.’ Which aufwcr con¬vinced the bifliops that they had mifeaken their man.A poor Scotfrnan dined one day at a publ’.ck houfe in Lon¬don upon eggs, and not having money to pay, got credit tillhe would return, the man being back) in trade, acquired vaftriches, and after fomc years returned, and calling at the heufewhere he was owing his dinner of eggs he had from him fucha time, but the landlord now feeing him rich gave him a billof fome hundred pounds, telling as his rcafon tor fo ex-travagent a chargs, that thefe eggs, had they been hatched,would have been chickens, and thefc lay ing more eggsv would( & 7ka ▼c been more ciiickens ; nnJ fo multiply! g the eggs an3their produft, till fuch » time as their value Ihoutd ameu' tto the fmn he charged. The : rtfeCng tccomply with thisRemand, was chargtt’ b.'fbre a judge , hut in the mean timemade his affair known to G*orge Bnrhanm hit country¬man, who prondfed to appear in thu hour of eanfc : which-he accordingly did all in a. {west, with o wrest bhfket ofboiled psafe ; which appearance fuprifvd the judge, who afk-cd hi m , what he meant by theft boded peare , f ys GeorgeI am going to few them : When will they grow ? fayi thejudge.—They will grow when fodJen eggs grow chickensWhich anfwer convinced the judge of the extravagance cf th^-Eiiglifbma*!’* demand, and tlie Scorfjian was .Jniiz.d upo;tfaying tow pence halfpenny.There was a bell at Dalkieth, which ths Popifli clergymade life of to px’ort eopteffion fiom the ignorant ;Koplein the following manner, '['hey told the perfbn wlu> theyfufpedfet] guilty, it would ring at the toung cf a guilty ptrrfen, hat if not guilty,it wouid not : by thefe means theygenerally frighted the ignorant into confelli m { for if thebell would nog, the per Ion was then to be eon-’.emnect todeath. But they managed the matter fc, that the bell wa»uev.-r put tc the trial, till Georg - did as follows : Jrle wastid.Civ up for faying. ’That the Pope was fallible hitnfelf;and could not pardou the fins of others,’ George owned heibid fo, but would refei to the bell whether lie was guilty ofnot. Then priells, though unwilling, were obligsd to corn,ply. George touched the bell, repeated r.8 before, ’ TbdPope is fallible, and cannot pardon fin, moreover added.The Pope and popith clergy are impaflers, and thereupon hetouched the hell, referring to it for truth ; but the bell notringing, the prkfts were difgraced as impnfttrs; andhe waslioncurably acquitted and tiie bch1 was laid afids.George defired a member of the college of St Andrew’sto lend him a book ; the other told him, he could not pofliblyfpare it out of his chamber, but it he pieafed he might coweand read there alt the day long. Some time after, the gen»tiemau feat to George to borrow his bcliaws j but he fen thim word, be could not poffibly (pare them out of his kitchen,but he might come there and blow all the day if he would.A fcholai at the garmmar feheol of St Andrew’s cominiTinto the room % lie re his imfter had laid down a bafket of fine$lKrrjc« for bis own eating} the waggilh boy. takes them upav,d evtes aVoud, I publifS the b nr* hrt#een thefe r Tic fries »nimy mouth, if any kno «. any i*!v caofe or impedimeif. whytbefe fhould not.be joined t<.'>cthcr. let thein drclarr it* TheP'lfter beiny in the next room, overheard alt that was f*id,a d eoming into thefchool, he icdered tr»ci>oy who had eatenhis cherries to be taken up, or as be called it, hous’d on aon-tber boy’s back } but before be proceeded to tbs ufuaUdifrip-Jine, he cried out as loud as the delinquent bed done. I pubilftithe bsnns between the boys breeches and mv was if any oneknow any juft caule or impediment, why t xfe two dis .nd notbe goined together, let them declare it. George paffiu^ byin the mean time, overheard this proclamation - 1 forbid thebsrns criM he. Why Id l fays the fch<>olni*fier 1 ^ -c ute theparties are not agreed replied he. Which atif-ver fo plc^f t themafter, that the boy was fet down wiflmut f pUiiiflunerlt.A young gentleman'that wanted to be winy °n the fciip-tures, eating fome chceie full of mites one n’ght at a tavern.Now, faid he, I have done asmucb a^ Sampfo^4f r 1 haveflainmy tlvoufjnda and ten tboufands. Y- s, rtpited. Gaccge, whohappened to be in his company, and tvith the fame weapon to®the jaw bone of as afs, which anfwer fet the. whole company alaughing to fee the young gentleman teat with hia own weaponGeorge being in company where three bilhops wereprefentat dinner; they knowing George to be a great fcholar andcomirl awithal, they put Upon h m to fay the grace, whichhe did as follows :Here are three brethren of the coat.Who for thy bit-fling thank thee not,Curfe them Lord and biffs hem not. Amm.fall on gentlemen, the caufe is good. 'Hsis grace madeike biihops to look like fools to one another, wirde-Gvorgelaughed heartily at the tonfufion they were in.A candkmaker having fome ■ candh s ftolen was tellingit in eomguny whore George was prefent, who b.ide him beof cheer, for in a fhort time, fays he. they will come to light.George being lent to Paris about foniebuGneL, went fromtheuce to Verefalles to fee the French king s court, and beingknown there to ftveral of the courtiers, who had been atthe £ng!ifh court, one of them took occaHon to tell theFrench Kiug, that George w»» one of the wi'^elk men inlingland, upon vhieh the French king deiVcd to fee him,which he did ; but George it feema was out t m noar, orat lead feeming fo, {poke but very Ii:tle to .tic purpoft, fothe} the French king told the noble man that rccommened lii-.f.?'■■%>* I* \£&r lucTi ft wit, tliat he looked upon_ h m ss a rery dull Fel¬low ; but the noble man affured the king whatever he thoughtof him, George was a very witty and ingenious man ; where-»aon the king was refobred to make a further trial of him,and took him into the great gallery, where there wasi abun¬dance of fine pictures, and among the reft, fhewed him thepidture of Chrift on the crofts, and a/kttLbim if he knew whothat was ? but George made hitnfelfVveiy ignorant, and ar<-fwered No. Why fays the king-, I will-tell you if yon donot know. This is the pidhtre of our Siviour on the crgfs,and that o» the right hand is the Pope’s and that on the leftis my own. Whereupon George replied, I humbly thankyour Majefty for the information, for though I have oftenbeard that our Saviour was emcifml between two thieves, yetI never knew who they were before* 'vA (harper who acquired vaft riches by chesting, told•Goorg.e, that if fuch a thing as a good name was to be pur-chafed, would freely give ten thoufand pounds for one. S' r,faid George, it would certainly be the word money you everlaid out in your life. Why fo, faid the (harper ? , Eecaufeatifwered he, you will lofe it in lefts than a week.One afleed George why men always made fuit, to the wo¬men, and women never to the men ? Why, fays he, btcaufethe women arealway* ready for the men, but the men are notalways ready for the women.George went into the mint one day when they were melt-5np gold ? one of them alked George, if he would have hishat Full of gold ? George readily accepted, but it burnt thebottom oiy of his hat, as they knew it would, and far that ,bout they fool led George; however, George to be even withtherh bought a fine large hat and caufed a plate of copper tobe put betwixt the hat and the lining, and returned next day,they, jeftingly, aftced him if he would have anolherhat fullofgold? He faid he would They gave it red hot, and Georgenow laughed at them in his turn, telling them that this newhat was a good one and flood fire better than the old one andfo carried it off honeitly ; being afterwards profecuted for ti»return it, he fxcufed himfelf telling the judge, that he took■nothing but what was given h’mi ; therefore he was honour¬ably acquitted and the other heartily laughed at.In the reign of King James the VI. George dining one daywith the Lord Mayer, after two or three healths the minifttrwas toafted. but when it came to George’s turn to drink, hediverted it fomc time by telling a ftory to the perfoti who fattext him t th« chief magi^rate not feeing his tftaft ro»s4<alle4 ■-'Ut, what flieks the minittry at l At nothing, criesGeorge, aruj fo drank off hi* gtals. _ 'George being one day along with the king and his noblesa hunting, and being but veryforrdy mounted, wh«a he isr3sfupring up his horfe, obferved the horte to have a trickof failing down en his knees, George tmtn*diat«Iv thoughthow he would make ufe of that very thing to dhrert-dnsMajeftyt therefore pretended that his horle would fet bares;and knowing fome lure feata rode that way to (hew the co.n-•pany the trutli of what he afffrmed, but when he lyad found'the hare by giving his horfe a fpur, lie immediately clappeddown : this he repeated*feveral times, till he put the wholeCompany in belief that what he had faid was truth ; and oneof the noblemen being charmed with the psrrorroscCe ofGeorge’s horfe would have George change with him, GeorgeTeemed at firft unwilling to part with his horfe ; but at lafl wasprevailed upon to part with him for the noblemau’s horfe anda hundred gmineeas to boot. But afterwards ridding thro a*river pretty deep, the the nobleman fpurrtng his new horfs, heclappeddown on his belly, which George feeing called out tothe company to return with the'dogs, fortfje nobleman’s hortebad certainly fet a hare: which fet the whole company a laughing. The poor r.obletnen was obliged to leave his borfe in thewater, and waddle thro7 on foot, ail wet to the fhoulders.A Scotfman being reduced to poverty, made his court to'George to put hitja in a way : George told him lie wouldproviding lie would do as lie diiefled him. There was an oldmifer, an ufurer and money changer hard by : George defin¬ed the poor fellow to pi etend an errand to the mifer and whenhe came to the table where the heaps of money lay tothurfthis hand among the gold, but lift none and run off. Thepoor fellow did, and was ebafed by the mifer -and his fer-vants, who ran after him into the ftreel, calling to ftop, thethief. The poor fellow was flopped, as George had deiiredhim to let them catch him. George appearing in the mob,went •along with the poor fellow, who was carried before ajudge where he was fearched, and nothing being found uponhim he was acquitted, and the raifer lined in a large fum foraccufing him. Afterwards George deiired him to go to thefame place and thurli in both his hands, and lift as much as hecould and run off- This lie did, but tliemifer told him be wasnot filch a fool at to follow him, for he knew he only defigretbto play the fool to hare him fined again. But by this meansfche poor fellow was enriched, and afterwards lived very happy-( JO }Ceorge being at dinner one day, ^1 *} t'14 ^roth r/as ts.ceding hot, burnt his mouth, end at h f a,ni: tirne ^e‘t'nS g°aloud fart. It i* weH for yon, fay5 r<:0rRe> you madeyowafeape, for I fhould have burnt?011 a^vc k'u y°u Said.Apart iv.Young curate wlthmorenertnefsthenwitor learning be*trig afkcd in company how he came to take it iiito I115 head toenterin to the miniftry of the church? Brcw-ifc faid'hethe Lordhad need of mr.That may lie replied George, who was prefentfor I have often heard that the Lord had once need of an af«After this George being fent with tVir Briti/h Ambaffadorinto Italy by the way of Paris, and as they were viewing thebeautiful flatuteR and large buildings ofRia: ipacious city, theking and many of his nobles in company ; as they were walk*ing thro'’ the King’s garden, among the images of ths faints,they came to the image of tbeVirgin Mary, who flood ,(j a mc-landtoly poflure with the bade in her ai'ms,one of the noblemenfays to the Britlfh Ambaffador don’t you think that fhe lookae if flic were angry ? Qyes, fays George, fhe’s angty wi en(he fees Engriihiuet^and Frenchmen in friendfliip and unintyone with another. No, no, fays the French king, fhc lovesnothing better than the reconcilation of enmemies, peace andunity is her delight. Then George gets in below the ilatue,and looks up : O fayitjeorge, I know what is the matter nowfor fomeboby ! as driven a nail in her arte, I fee the head ofit jlxking out, it would vex any living, he’s apiece of woodAt this the king was greatly enraged at George for faying fo,for calling her a piece of wood ; and nothing would fatisfythe king unltfs George wunld fall down and worfltip theVrigin Mary and crave pardon of her for the hlafpheinous re¬proaches wherwith he had reproached iier. 1 hen Georgecries out, O may it pleafe your Majefty, to remit at this time.1 dare not look hf r in the face, (ha frowns on me with fuclian angry countenance : this dutiful command of yours muftbe delayed unti UI ret urn from-Italy, and then I fhall fulfilyour demand in paying her all dutiful rcfpcdlf, and worfhipunto her ac-oiding to what fhe is. So here the AmbafTadorflood bound for George, that he v/onld perform this piece ofworfhip at his return, according to the king’s pleafure.Now di.riuing their flay in Italy,t! ey ehanccd to be in a noNeman’s lioufe, where they kept hut few itrvauw, becaufeo fn fpirit that did haunt the houfe»for the (pace of zoo yearsbefore that time, fo that no fervan: could work any kind ofJalour in or about the houfe for it, except cof fes, for win*they vu’garly called a brownie, it did all itielf and would fuf»fer no Fellow-labourer to work along with it.— On themerning George got up pretty early and called for water towalh himfelf; then divettly cmnes the brownie with a balbaof water in one baud, and a clean cloth in the other. Georgeperceiving him have fuch a pale ghofllV countenance, not tobe an earthly ercatup-j fiid, Of what notion art thou ? -T®which it anfwered iu Galic or Ka» ft. A countryman of your*,fir. 1 he AmbdfTador fmiltd and joked George, telling him itwas a devil, and how could it he a countryman of his ? O lays.George, I’ll Ihew you the contrary of that, for the devil darerot (fay in our cruft try. George having walked himfelf, itcame to take Sway the bafon of watt r, then fays George, Andhow long is it fir.ce you left yonr own country f About 200and 50 years ago, fays it. Then certainly, fays he, thou arta devil and not.n emhly creature. To which it anfweree!»I am what I am, and a Chriifian too, Then 1 am what iam, to conjure you fays George } he taking a handful u?water, and throwing it upon the eld wrinkled face of it, re-p sting the i'epm of the words of baptifm in Eatfe, faying,if thou be a Cbirilian thou art old enough to bs baptifed^iNofooner h«d be done this, but it went off weeping and cry •tog, O ! Jet never a rogue put truft iu his own countryruettafter me. Now, fays George,'! told you the devil dare nothay in tny country, nor yet look a Scotfinan in the face iahis own. What 1 lays the Italain jLord,do ypu imagine that'this is the devil’s own conntiy ? It appears fo, fays Georgefor he is the oldtft refidenter in it 1 know ; but my Lord,faid he, and it it pleafe yoar Grace, 1 think the clergynunare very fcant in tliis country when you have kept the devilio long for a chaplain. The nobleman to this gave no an-iwer, butexpiefied his forrow to be very great for the IcLofhis brownie.Now the Arnb'fTador having done his bufnnCs in Italy theyreturned homeward, and on their way the AmbaiLdor beganto qneflion George how be thought to efetpe Parts withoutcbnimritiiig idolatrv. No, no, fays George, I never did %vor« •(hip any image, and never (hall,but! (hallmakethem worlhipthe wot ft that is in my guts. No fooner were they arrived iiaParis, but George leaves the Ambaffador, and goes diredllyto the Virgin Mary, jumped in over the railing to the holy-ground, (as thry termed it) whereon (be flood, where fewft Crftgobut priefts and friars ; and there he loofed his breechesa.: d made fuch a gronaing tafing hiinfelf, that he was heardat a diftasce by tbe priefts and friars who were walking nearby ; and they perceiving this heinous abomination, run uponfcim like a pack of hounds, and carried him before the cardi¬nals and father cotifeffors, where he was aiiawed to fpe&k forhimfelf, winch he did as follows:“ May i. pkafe you;- mold excellent worfhips to hear mf•< reafons betore you pronounce the lenience to be put in ex-41 ecutiou againft me. It was aiy misfortune to be palhnj** thro! this city a few months ago with the Britifh Ambaf-4t fador on our way to Italy ; and one dry being walking in“ the King’s garden, in prefence ofthe king and many of hia“ Nobles, who can bear witnefs to the truth of the fame; I“ being ignorant of your traditions and rices of religion,4‘ fooliflvly ofFeadcd, reproaching the Virgin Mary to her4< face; and ever /ince ihe has oagued m? with a boundnefa4‘ in my belly that I have avoided nought, but clean hacn r.fo now on my return I wentan-d implored^her to ,open my44 fundament, and ike has done fo; 1 being overjoyed with«* the miraculous healing in getting a pa£>age in her perfence4‘ left it as a memorial of the miracle in that place.” Whenbearing this, th»y all with one confeat lifted up their handsand blelled ihe Virgin Mary, for the wonderful miracle ihebad done, and ordered Grorge to go about his bv finefg.anddeclare unto aU what was done unto him by.the holy Virgia.for the conlirmatioa of their religion, bo all the devout Ro¬mans came to view his dung, and worfhip it in prefence ofmany people y and alfo caui'ed a holy day to be obfervedthroughout the king’s dominions for the miraculous cure.■ Noir George seing a long time •Went trom Britain, hethought it fit to goaad vifix the king andhiscourr in difguife.He meeting with an old man dtiving two old horfes loadedwith coals to fell, George here made a bargain with the oldman for the loan of his cloathes, his horfes and eo?.l whip, andevery thing to complete him as a real driver; fo away be goesin bis drefs until he came before the king’s palace, where hebegan to ery with nn audible voice, Buy coals, buy coals; bet¬ter buy than borrow Now the king being iu company withbis new chaplain who was a foundling, fo that none knew hisoriginal, and had been foftei ed aud educated out of charity bythe king’s father, yet he was become as prond ns Lucifer andts gentle in his own conceit as the king himfeif. Now theking knowing George’s voice though he was in a coalman'sdrefs, defired the chapLin to aft the coalman why he calledfo loud, in eking fuch a terrible noift. The chaplain open-. C *5 3lea the rmdo w and with preat ai.'S called out unto him, Yo®■fir, what do yoircty for ? Why, faid George, I cry for peo¬ple to come and buy my coals and give tne money for them :but what do you cry for ? What, fir! fays the young pn'cft,jl cry for you to h. •>! your peace. Then, fays George, come.here then and cry for me, and go fell my coals, and I will{hold my peace. Sell your coals! fays «he prieft, do you:know unto whom you fpeak ? Yes, I do kno», fays George,Ibut you do not. What are you ? fa\s the pried. I am amottal and io are you, fays George: What is your father’#frame, fince you will not tell me your own ? fays the prieft,iiYou niuft go alk that at my mother, fays George, for I am»ot (ufficient, when fire got me to know him : What, fays theipriefi, do you not know your own father! I know my mo¬ther, and my mother did know my father, fays George, andhat is fufficient, and more than you can fay perhaps. Thewieft, thinking he was coming too near, thought to put himff with a Scriptural qneftion, by aiking him, If he knew wfiatrasMelchizedek’s father? Indeed, mailer prieft, faysGeorge,JMdchizedck’s defeent was not counted, ncitheris yours, then,iffho can declare your generation ? The priellat this anfwerwould ftand the argument no longer, but doled the windown great bade, while the king and all who knew the prieft taae a foundling, were like to fplit their fides with langbing^jo George went off with his coals and the pried became morenimble then he was formerly, for he thought that every ho¬ly knew what be was when the coalman knew fo well.One night after this an Eng'ifit ’fquire who profdTed to beisetter ver fed in poetry than George, laid a wager with anotherlijentkman five guineas again 11 one that George could not roe-jere the firft word he would fay to him in the'morning wheajjnewly awaked out of his deep *, fo the ge ntleman went the3sight before and told George the (lory and bid him be on hi*guard for in the morning they would ceratioly come and that(right early. At midnight if you will, fays George. I’li order[nay fervants to let you in. So the Englilh ’fejuire fat up all’might conferring whh his friends whetherhe would put a higl»iverGtohim^rmean firnple words.thinking that Georgewouitl[befitting up all night meditating on an anfwer, io all agreedthat mean and fimple words would be the belt, as he wouldinot be thinking on them, and have no anlwer provided. Then/away they came in the morning early, with feveral gentlecut^I company to hear the diverfoa, George’s ferrant opened th^C 24 1door, according to his rmftu ’s ordos. The fquireentercchltxooin flrft, and awakestd George out of his deep, then f*iiRife up you madman, aud put on your doatlicB.x To which George anfwered.O thou haft loft thy wr.d man, for I am no*£ of thofe.T)ie E^glifhfquirecoiifefredhew'as fairly beaten and could*utch him with no more. Then another genrlertinn wouldhold five galenas, that he would give him a word or line thathe /houli not metre at theftrftanfwer.audtoaDfweritdire&lyas form as he had donefpeaking: but George ordered him fullto table; his money and then to proceed, wiftch he did in allhafte, and f;;id as follows :My belly rumbled and then I farted.George gripping to the money anfweied,A fool and his moaey is foon parted.Then they all cried out he was fairly beat and what Georg*had fiid was really true ; but never would lay any more wa¬gers concerning poetry.After tin's George got a letter from a bifhop telling hit*that he was coming to vifit him, and take dinner with him inlis lodgings ; Georgefent ananfwer to himthat he would wait»pon his brdfhip ou the day appointed ; but well did George4*ow it was not for any love he had unto him that he was•oming to fee him, but to fpy fairlies. therefore he thought fiefhould give himft-mething to talk about., So George fent hisServant to a boolfcHer’s fliop to buy a dozen of finall pamphfrtt about a halfpenny a piece fuel: as A * Groat’s Worth ofWit tor a penny.’ ‘ The hiftory of the King and the Coblcr,#nd fach pieces as thefe. Taking all his own books away, and•ttttmg the pamphlets in their place which is prelented to thekiftir pjwhcn be afked for the fight of his library. What, fays#!e bifhop. have you no more books but thefe ? No more, faysGeorge, but my bible, juft no more, Q fays the bithop I won¬der bow you c«n either fpeak plain cr write a perftA fentenc*when voa have no other books but thefe. 0 fays George, dayou think that I am a clergyman, to borrow other men’s fer-npoi , to beautify my works ? No. no, not I; ah that 1 write•f dite l meditutt out ofuny brain. This check coscttningborrowing put ti c bifhop in a cold fweat, yet he concealed hieyxifSon. Then George called to hi* fervantif dinnerw s ready'yet, to which i.e anfwtred, Come, mailer, come the pot t? otathe boil, get cut :ht meal peck t then George came into tharoom where his iervant was, and fet the B.fhop at tbc hdc ofUm ire, and fiat down at the oi.atr huatcif j srhile fits len,• C *5 ) ,triade a great bowel full of milk brofe ana fet therrt do.*ii be¬tween the bifhnp u-nd George ; then Georg's deVired tlie bilhopto afk a blefling for what they werp to receive . The bifh m-didnot know what i:e meant by a bleffing, it no’tbeing ufnal fortheEnglirti to dofo, aiked at George vrliatit was, but George tookup a great ramhorn fpoon, and dapped it into the bifliop’s handfaying, there it is my lord, What I fays the bilhop, call youthatabieffing? we call tliat a fpoon, O mylord, fays Georgeit is thtbeilblefiiug you can alk, if it do not come empty.Well,fays the bdhop, andhowdoyoueall this fealded meat?Why lays George, we call it Scots brofe. O, fai d the biflrop,I cannot eat it. Q faid he the thing we cannot eat we i’upmy lord, fince you are in a Scotsman’s houfe. you mut par¬take of a Scotfman’s vidluals. Then faid the bilhop, ,1 al¬ways thought the Scots hid lived well till now, I wculfl notbe a Scotfman for tire world. O, fays George, if a Scotfmaulives but zo years and gets but 19 vea.5 meat, he cannot l>ebadely off. What, not badly jff, and want a year’s v'nfbuaH?faid the bifhop, upon my word of honour, if I wanted one day’*vifluals, I’d be I’ure to die the next. O fays George,"we drinkwater when we cannot do better, and that puts us in remem¬brance of wealth, for a difti.af (ontentmen is good cheer.Then faid tire bilhop, I '11 drink water too, if it be good forthe memory. Ay do, laid George, and you will remember, mewhen youdo fo. Now after dinner the bilhop took his leaveef George, and delired him next day to come and dine with huiwNP \ R T V.EXT day, George, according to promife, went to tidebiflrop’s lodging; ; but no fop"er did the bifliop lec George,than he faluted him with thefc words :“ Your fervant, mailer w.fe man, and yet you have no books !How can you have ki owledge that no man inftruCts ?Gemrge anl,weird,Your fervant mafie b,(hop, your falutatiou’s good ;Yourknow'.tcg* isinyourliberary, whlleothers arein theirhoolNow after a fumputous dinner, the blfliop took George in¬to his library, Hiewinii him a grea quantity ot bonks wl.icliGeorge praifed ver y much, and among the roll was an oldHebrew Bible, which Georg, taking up a Ike 1 at the bilhop,what book it wa£ 1 tire bilhop Looking at it v^ry flucerly, iaulhe could not tell. Why then do you keep a book that yott,po not kfxsw the name of it It may be the book of black,art. No, I isoa’j tkiitk that, faid tlie Ulhop, but can /04( 26 Jwhat it is ? Ye?, fays George, it is the Bible, the befl bookfor a bifhop I know, if he had eyes to fee the infidcofit : Sohe dtfired George to read a piece of it? but when he didhe could not underhand it, he therefore defired him to explain,which fentence he did as follows, Ifa. ix. i6:iForthe lead-.“ ora of the people caufed them to err, and they that are led“ of them are dehroyed.5’ To which George added, this is,the blind leading the b ind. So taking his leava of the bifhop,lie partad with him. faying thefc words:Good night, hail Mr biihop, of books you have great flore,Yet cannot read the lialf of them, then what life are they for?Many of the clergymen in England defired greatly to be ilkicompany with George, becaufe of his comical and witty ex-pieffions, fo George happened one night to be called into acompany, where there were two bifhops, as alfo a prieft, whowanted to be licenfed by them. One of the bifhops afkedGeorge, Why the people of Scotland did not love bifhops ?Becaufe fays George, they are like old beggars advanced tobe ruler* over borrow men, flill inftrudting them in things theyknow «ot themfclves, ordering them to carry ftones to thebuilders, which they will not receive, and which they them-felves had never power to move; the Scots having knowledgeof this hate to fee the bifhope have great lord (hips for theirignorance, and the poor labourers have little or nothing fortheir toil. One of the bilhops looking at George with an angrycountenance, nnfwered, faying, Thou Scot muff be made a.bifhop yourfelf, and tlie bifhops made prieffs, and that willferve well for your turn. No no, laid Geoige, that will notdo, for if 1 be matle a bifhop I’ll have no broken bifhops tofefve as pritlfsunder me, for they are fucli bad mailers theywill become the word of all fervants. At this the two bifhopsleft the room in a great pafiion, leaving George and the youngptieft only by themfelves- Now, now, fays Gedrge, this provesthe bifhops to be but hirelings, and not true fliepherds, (point- •ing to the young prieft ) you fee they have fled for theirownfafety, end left you a lamb before the mouth of me a fox, and■who knows but I jnay worry you. Hun, run, too, inafferfheep, fays George, and if you • have eyes, guide thofc twoblind fhepherds down (fairs, and over ditches, but I am afraid. ;y°u wifi all tumble in a ditch together, this raifed fuch anindignation in the bifliops breads, that thay defired no moreof George’s company and converfation.One time after this, George being in the country, abouttwenty miles didant from London, and on his way hoswajdthere came after him n fine gilded coach, which George wasinformed belonged to the Bifiiop of Canterbury, and wa* go¬ing to London,for his l-rrdfhip. George addrcffed himfelf t«the coachman for to have a psffage with him in the coach toLondon : fo he bargained with the coachman for two dollars,to carry him to the Bell Inn on London bridge ; the one he gavehim in hand and the other as foon as ever lie would fe# himout of the coach door ; fo away the coachman drives for Lontloiiin all hade, in which time George wrote the following Motto :Here, fits the Bifnop of CanterburyWho at the fcbools dildain’d to tarry.Far better fkill’d in games than preaching,And yet 1 e lives by other* teaching.Blind leaders of the blind indeed,’Lis blind and lame who chariots n*ed ;Six brutes with eye? this brute doth carry^1 mean the Bilhopof Canterbury.My feet being lame, I gave a dollar,To be drove in date like you a fcholar r• For which myfelf I do abhor.Shame caus’d me make another door.Thefe lines being battered upon the iufide of the coach, aniwhen he came within a mile cf London, took a knife and cuta great hole in the back fide of the coach where he came out,and to make his promife good to the coachman that he wasto give the other dollar as foon as ever he faw him come out ofthe coach door. The poor coachman drove on till he came t®theforefaid inn where he alighted and operled the door to lethi* paffenger out, but feeing the coach empty and a great holeIn "■he back fide of it, he cried out he believed he had the de«▼il in his coach, and he had taken away the backfideef it withhim. The people of the inn came all flocking about to fee whatwas done ; and then feeing the lines in the infidc of the coacb*which the bifhop came and red himfelf, they all concluded it tohe done by George but conldnaake nothing of it, for the bifhopfaid, To purfue him would only make it worfe and no better.George wa* invited one day by a great lawyer to come, andfee a fine building which he had lately built of fine free ftonesand marble. He defired George to guefs what it was builtwith ; George anfwers, Do you think that I do not knowwhat il is built with? No you do «ot fays the lawyer. Yei*I do, fays Geor ge, it cannot Hand long for malice and hatredis tlie mortar of it, and the ftoix* ate the heads of foolifhpeople, polilhed over with the tongue of an »f»,—Oi fir ^•rion’t yoii remember that an afs was 'made an advocate, and{poke Balaam? The lawyer to this would girc noanlwe^ but took good niijlit of George.Three merchant nr'dlsrs ( as they profcITed to be ; came \n‘tha pact or goods to put a trick upon a widow woman who keptJ*n inn on the highway fide. After they had drunken rery hear-tv> the}- defired tire woman to lay no the pack fecrely. andcharged her dirt ft !y before witnefles to give it to none of them“nlefg they came all together for it'again. And about threewecj.s there after, two of them returned and defi'ed ti e. Wo¬man to give them the pack, telling her, that the other man'"as gone to luch a fairwith another pack- -..’here they werepl‘ to meet, and they were fellow travellers conjuft in trade,arld how they had all aright to the pack alike; whereupon. *1^ poor fimple worfian, not dread'hg any fetrclrer harm gavethem the pack. Sa in a few days thereafter the other mancomes srd Remands the pack. The honeft woman told himplainly that the other two men had been there before and got»t away. Then he began to demonllrate to the woman whatgreat d;ngcr fhe was in. andf -rthwith raifed a procefs againlther by law, which cpafl the poor woman a vafl of money todefend, at the plea continued more than two full years; and® great court oire day being to fit upon the proctfs to decide-^t, w hich -would undoubtedly have been done in favour of thepurfuer, the proof being fo clear, and the woman not cenyingwhat the bargain was when fhe got the pack to keep. Thepoor woman being in grate ftrairs, her purfe being turnedempty, and her attorney told her plainly as her money wasgone, he could no longer defend her. The woman ones morepinched up her heart and went to London to employ a new at¬torney to fpeak for her; but for want of.gold fhe could get noneto undertake it. George bcipg in s hpufc where he heard thepoor widow malting aDou’rtrful compl lint' to one of the at¬torneys who gave her no comfort'or latrsfac t:on, for when flictold him flie had no money to fpend, or glee in defence of it,the attorney went atvay and would hear no more of the wo¬man’s grievaus complaint, which made George laugh veryheartily, while the poor woman fat weeping like one deftraft-fd. Poor Woman Tays George you n#cd not tliinb that man■Will fpeak a word fu£. you or any one rife, unlei's you hadfcroi ght him a purfe cf gold to lofe his tongue ; hut as I havegot a fchctnc of the matter, you may go home and have pa¬tience till the time come, aud then my life for yonrs poor wo-Aia», I will fend you an attorney who will doyour hpfinefs,foi( 2? )rothinpr. He gave tie poor woman more courage than anyfile bad (poke with in Loidon ; for every one told her that allthe attorneys in the-world could not free her. So according¬ly at the day appointed George ditfted himfelf like an attor¬ney, with his'gown, and every thing as if he had been lb.The court being fenced, and the proofs read over the ex¬pence and value of the pick having amounted to about fevenhundred pounds, was ordered to be put in a decreet againffthe poor widow, which every one was bemoaning, but emildgive her no relief. Now George kept himfeif filent, hearingthem all with great patience, and the very nick of time, hethought proper to, add refs himfeif to the judges as follows?“ My Lords, judges, and gentleman of this honourable courtand company, 1 have come from London gratis, out of pure,pity to fpeak a word or two im favour of this poor woman,who.hath fpent all her means in defence of a falfe accufationrailed againd her: and now when her money is gone, herfpeakers are dumb, and I fee none to plead the caufe of thispoor widow. Now when fentenceris upon the brink of beingpronounced againil her, 1 earneft'y defire this court to molifyand drop the expends altogether: it is enough when the poorwoman hath the pack to pay ; for you all know the psor wo¬man was no ways enriched by it, when the other two men gotit away.” Then the purfuer’s atorney made an aofwer asfollows :—u Sir I would kave thought you, who have comefrom London and profefleth to be a doftor of law, fbouldknow better things ; know you not that he who gains the. plea,gains the expences as well ai thefum, be what it will.,, Teeit mull and fhall be fo too, faid the judges. Then faid George,That is all I want: which fet the whole court a laughing,thinking he was a fool, and become an adverfary to the poorwoman. Give'over your fport, gentlemen, fays George, Ihave not done yet.“ My Lords judges, you’ll hear me in this: iftho poor w»-man made a bargain with this merchant, and other two whowas with him for fo keep that pack fafeiy, and deliver it tonone cf them till they were all three prefent, now let tha*man who is here at this time go and ftek the other two, andthey (hall have the pack, for (he has the pack f&ffe enosgh, butfire will keep by her fiill bargain. Sa I refer to you judgesand gentleman, .if this poor worn ♦. be not in the right.” Tffismade the judges look one to another: and the whole courtwith one voice, decla.ed the woman was in the right, and or¬dered the purfuer to go and feek his two companions. No,^ < 3° )*o, fays Gforge, tbe poor woman mufi firfl have her fXpen«e>«r furety for it. Then the judges caufrj the purfuer to b*arrefted at the bar ; unti 1 the w omen got farisfa&ion for allher trouble and cxpenees. So George returned to Londonunknown but for an advocate- whofe fame was fpread over allEngland’; which caufed many who had law fuits to fearchtliro’ London for him, but could not find him wha had gainedthe widow’s law plea.George being one day in thecountry, and co ning thro’a vil*lage, there jame a great mafliiT dog and gripped him by the leguntil the blood followed his long teeth, George with one ftrokeof hiscanecame over hiseyesuntil he fell down and died on thefpot: ’ Tis well for thee, fays George, that I killed the beforethou was broughtto juflice, for thou hnd certainly been hangedfor what thou had done, and thy mafterfeverely fined for keepingthee. . The owner of the dog hearing George lay fo, went off■without fpeaking a word to George, for fear it had beea fo.A country gentleman came one time and et.q tired at Georgewhat be thought was the reatbn he loft every law fait or pleahe fet his face to, tho* never fo juft a claim, the law went ftillagainft him ? George afltid him whom he emeloyed ? He told-Kim . he was one of the bell and ableft attorneys in England.Ifes, fays George, I believe he may be fo, but when you goto- law again, if you have a mind to win it, when you giveyour own attorney one guinea, rive your advelary two: forthofe attorneys are much after the nature ot an afs, they won’tfpeak right if you do not throw a multitude of angels bsforethem, (meaning pieces ofEnglifh money called angels by name,)The gentleman returned in a few weeks thereafter and hear¬tily thanked George for his good advice, for h. was not afraidtu>w but he could gain any plea he took in hand, whether itwas juft or nor.Two drunken fellows one day fell a beating on~ another inthe ftreets of London, which caufed a great crowd of peoplethrong together to fee what it was ; a taylor being at work upin a high garret about three or four ftories high, and he hear¬ing a noife ill the ftreet looked over the window, but could notwell fee them, he began to ftretch himfelf, making a long neckuntil he fell down out of the window, and alighted on an oldman who was walking on the ftreet. The poor taylor was moreafraid than hurt, but the old man on whom he fell died dire&iy.His ion caufed the taylor to be apprehended, and tried fqr themurder of his father. The jnry could not bring itin as a wilfumurder neither could they altogether acquit the taylor ; tli«' c.( 3i )jury gave it over to the judges, snd the judges to the king.The king aiked Georges advice in tins hard Viatter. Why,fays George, I’ll give yon m-y opiirion in a minute ; you muftcaufe the taylor Hand in the Hrect in the place where the oldgentleman was when he was killed by the taylor, and then letthe old gentleman’s 1'on, the taylors adverfary, go up to the win¬dow from whence the tayior fell and jump down and kill thetaylor as he tftd his father, for I can do no more in it: you fee ,it wase great mercy fo r the taylor he had the old gentlemanbelow him, or elfe he had been killed on tha fpot4 and that i*was the old gentleman’s lot or misfortune to die there. Thetaylor’s adverfary hearing this fenttnee paffed, he would no^renture to jump over the window ; fo the tiylor got clear off.GP A R T VI.EORGE being one night in company with fome Englifknobleman in prefence ol the king, they began to deinouUrat*fuch a fine place as England was, both for beautiful buildingsand fruitful fields. One gentleman faid he knew a place inEngland, though they flkruld crop the grafs even with thflground at night, and lay down a crown on it before an htm-drtd witneffes, and againll to-morrow you would not knowwhere to.find it. This may feem very llrange to fome, fjy»George, but it is no mydery to me, knowing theie would beenpugh’of them who law the crown piece laid down, readyenough to come and take it up before to-morrow. But faysGeorge, I know a place »n the well of Scotland, where if youtether a horfc at night, againft the next morning you will notfix- him What a pox will take him away l fays the Englilh-liKan. Only fuch people fays George, as will take away yourU crown piece G 1 lays the Englilhman, you know what I mean.T. lien, fays George, you talk much of towns you hawe iuil England. I know three towws in poor Scotland for proper-3 ties you have tone fuch. Pray, lays the nobleman, what are1 theie properties ? Why, fays George. I know one town where,(there are an hur.dercd bone bridges in it; another town wherether« ate fifty draw bridgas in it j another town where tho’ *man coremits murder, treafon, or owes never fo much money*if he runs to that town, gets in below a ilair, no law nor jufticejean farm him. The nobleman ordered immediately to flake ni%hundred pounds that there were no fuch towns in Europe, be-hdcs in Stotiand. They delired George but to tell the naraeacf thefe towns, for they would find them out, and knowwhether he was a liar or not j to he told their Kuses, ami tVfROien were Cent to Scotlj.nd to tee. 'Hie firft was Buddlngflon,near Edinburgh : when they came there and aflced tor thebone bridges, the people (hewed them ftcps alinoft between e-very door, of the fkulls of dteepheads, which they ufed as ftep-jiing #o*es. The fecond was a little country Tillage, betweenStirling and Perth, called Auchterarder, where there is a largeftrand, and which rans through the middle cf the town, aadalmoft at eyery door, there is a flock or ftone laid over theftrand, whereupon they puffed to the oppofrte neighbours*and when a flood came thay could lift there warden bridges incate they fhouid be taken away ; and thefe they called theirdraw bridges. The third was a village near Cambufnethan, whichthey paflld from the one end to the other, but there was not■ a flair in it all : fo they returned to England, and told whatkind of bone and draw bridges they were, and how that therewas not a flair in all that place, therefore no man could tun inbelow it.Now George being old and highly advanced in years, find¬ing his natural ftrength and ftate of health decaying he peti¬tioned King James to let him return to Scotland to vifit hisfriends and lands of his nativity ; which he willingly granted,(not thinking that hisdeiign was never to return ;) for Gebrgebad a great dtlire to reC’gtt his foul and breath in that part ofthe world where he received tlicin, and that bis body and boneswight be laid among his anceftors, which was counted a great *honour in former time*.• So accordingly George came to the parifli of Buchanan. o»tbe weft of Scotland whereby he viffied all his friends and re¬lations before hi» death, during which, the king lent fevcralaieflagea ier him '© return in all the hafte he could; but heabb Intel, itduled telling him. that he would never fee hint 'Again which grieved the k.ng very much to hear him exprefsliinil'elf in that m nner. Mtr> this rhe king ffnt him a let-tar, t, reatning him very fharptv. if he did not appear in Lon¬don in the fpace ot ten days he /hould bring him to Londonwhether he would or not. Unto which as an anlwe'r, Georgefent him a famous letter of admouinop both anent the go-'Yerniae't of fis kingdom, and the wei"! being of his foil; jwhich caufed the kihg weep very bitteiiy, when h« read ho¬ver, with the following verfc :My honour^ leige, and fovereign King,Of your boa fling great I d'ead nothtng JOn your fend anti favour I’ll frsfcelv fenture4Ere that d^v, 1 II be where few kings enter v*end of tee exploits/■ • - - - Li