TMSLINNET,COLLECTIONOF CELEBRATEDSONG S,FROM THE BEST AUTHORS.jfalisirH:FEINTED & SOLD BY T. JOHNSTON.IQ.(wKCif.I!1KKKKK\CKKi?CK'' THELINNET.Earl Moira’s Fare^el.Louden*' bonny woods and braes,I maun Ita’e tl-iem a’, laflietWha can thole, when Britain’s faesWould gi e Britans law, laffie lWiia would fhun the field of danger ?V/i'n’ fra Fame would liv4 s ftranger iNew '#i)en Freedom bids avenge > er,V- ha would shun her ca’, i^dlio ?Loilden’s bonny woods and braesHas fee.-i our happy bridal-days,And gentle H 'pe dull fdoth thy v.^es,When I am far awa’, laiTi.,'Hark ! the fwelling bu:;!e fings!That gi’es joy to thee, laddie ;But the doltfu’ bugle bringsWacfu’ thoughts to me, laddie.Laneiy I may climb the mountain,Lanely ftray befide tiie fountain.Still the w<.ary moments couriting.Far frac Love and thcCjA 44O’er the gory field if war.Where V-f.’ea.ice drives bi* crimfon €Jr,Thou’lt n-.)'b« fa’ frae me afar.And uaue to clofe thj e’e, laddie*0 -vfuma thy wonted fmile,U tupprefe thy fear, laffie ;GJorir.us honour crowns the toilP at the foldier (harts, laffie:He;>v'n will fliicld thy faithfu’ lever,Till ’^e Ti nc,clul ftrife is over,Ti'en »,*!! meet, nae rnair to f var'I ill the viav we die, laffic : ,Mi It our hjnny wood* and brats.We’ 1 Ipct'd our peaceful happy days,A* bly • ,'s yon lightfome lamb, that pl*7»On Loudon's How y lea, laffie. * Jamie frae DenDtE.1 oanna lik? you, gentle Sir,Alt ho a laird you be ;l like a bonny Scottish lad,Wha brought me frae Dundee.Had cw;i" w 1’ J.tmie.Had awa’ wi Jamie.Hpd •-"•'a’ w’ Jamie Vev tr* !e?.:I’li ' • i* vi‘ iTi wi* right guid-wil!,He's a' the war id to me.5I’ll gang w-* Jamie frae Dane!."?,cheer the Iqnef^rrje tray ;His cheeki are ra^dy o’er vvi’ ’nealth,ile s froIrefciTje as May.Had awa', &c. .^ ■■ y; 'The lav’rock momts to i.ail the inorn,Che lintwh'it'.-^tvells hb tli'rr'at;But neve- orfe fo fiVeet,To glearjA'. Jamie’s ’.u-iefu! note.Had aiva’v &c.The Lsiss o? Arratueinie.,>■' f h +m7*rForj-'-ohn a-maiUr the Highland hi!]?,'’inulli Natmje s wildefi grandeur,By rnckv dins an’ vkoo^iv glens,wn \venry •fteft'-1 war der;Tiie lantibm)C way, the <iajki' me day;the nVni. ia'm itiift'f* rain'Are nougnt to me. .wh.ro cauu to thej,fwee LTso’ Arranteintc.Yoo mnfsy rofe-bud. do\Vn tne npwe,Juft opening fre.fii ano bo r'y.Bliaks Ivivetly ’neath the azb.-bdughjan' fcatcely feeri b • y :Sae fweet amidfl tei nativ. hills,obtcurrly hlaotns niy Junto-,Muir in r an gay t’ a • ‘.fv May,the flower of Arr*.d .Init.^3I6Now from the mou"’ htiN lofty brow,1 vu’w ti-.e liiflai't .. 'i ,Thrrc avar.c;- •.! e bounding prow,ambition courts promoU'm :Let Foriuoe p >ur her gojoen (lore,her laurel favor* >nanv ;Giv. me but this- my foul fr (l wifli.The Lafs of A ra ■cinir,Bux m joao. Willie.Wueh fragrant bloi^m of v l!ow broomdelight.* our lads and lafT ,O’er yellow broom }a beau yh bloommy Will all lads furpi-ffes !Wi’ Willy tnen I’ll o er the braes.I’ll o’er the braes wi’ W1 y •Wi’ Willy then I 11 o’er the braes,I’ll o’er the braes wi’ Willy.From morn to «vc ' ll fiii^ the praifeol buxMn. bunny Wiflv ;Willy, Willy. Willy. Willy.From morn to eve !'!! ling the praifeof buxom, bouny Willy.declin’d by fay, at noon-tide day,we’ll pu the daify pi et y.The Im.-lang oay we U kifi and play,er fi.!£ fome loving ditty.VVj Wilts’ then, &c.7How b'jr’he and gay a' fening day,yi' dtnna b:ndtr.I’ll fi. g and play wi' 'X;illy gay*for we twa ne’er that I finder.Wi’ Willy t ,cn See.The Sorrowfui Mother.Sleep on, m? fweel babie, may nothing diftrefathee.May foir \v like mine be a ft anger to thee;Thy fa" 'er no in :re lhall with rapture caref r jcjNo m e will benoid his fweet babie and me.Soft ft be thy reft thou companion of forrnw,T ‘c m ^tiing of life it lo-.ks gh omv on t' ee;Th’> t it-ner lia- fallen injithe lowlands «f H ila.id,He fl.f ps far remote from hi b«b:e and njc.Thy father is [alien, mi*- ftny and prettdW,Ai’d with thee, mv babie. an 1 wiert h-ib flee?The world. I’m afraid, will fahiv net l-:£l u,.T1 . feel not the wants of my babie at ei me.D ■mage of him who has left me f r ever,T uU beam of comfort allotted •tor nr ./T. to clouds ofd-ftr. r ib' e ji i on r v ’n.itber.And ciicer with afmile,ner wno lives but tor thee.i <-8Y>;ung Donald of Dundee.Young Donald was the biytheft ladthat e’er rnado }ova to me ; ; ^Wiicne'cr he’s by, my heart is glad,he koks fae gay and free :While on his pipe he piais fae fweet,And in his plaid he.jooks fo neat,He clienns my heart when at eve I meetyoung Donald o’ Dundee.iWhen f go to yonder grove,young Sandy follows me;' d lain he wants to be iny love,► r 'but U he canna be :Tho’ mother fret baitii foon and late,For me to wed thi youth 1 Irate,Thiert’s nane can tiling to gain young Kate,but Donald o’ Dundee.W’beri lafi 1 rang’d the bank^ of Tay, v'tlie ring he fhow’d to me.And bade me name the brda! -day, ^and appy wou’d l.c be :I ken the laddie will prove kind.No more Hiv mother will l mind, «LDf ] vju to ms, w J] quickly bindyoLi)^ Donald cf DuiiOcc.9Nan of Lf>gie-Greeo.Bt pVafure loi g infcfttd,K '.j Heavers, wi,en Haft expend,M> dcvioU- patii dirs fteds'o Mass >i Logie-green ;Where •hsufand fweets rtpofe ’tmjIn quiet’s uinuflied b fom,1 found m> pctrlefs bir^cm,The pride of Logic-grecn.The city 3clie. perchance ayWill blaroc my youihfui f«! ey.But die ne’er faw my Nancy,Ti.c piide of L •gic-gsccn ;Her cheek r yermeii o-fc. *,Her fmiU a Heaven rii'chnea,J/o Isly-lea' that Vjl; w isSo fair on Logsc-gr-.en.Y< Town-bred fair forgive me,Y u^ arm .rouft ne'er uc'ive me.Your ciinrnu are all. tv l ev- me,Eci'p, 4 Logie-grcr; .Forgiv, nry paflio - t nder.Hei vn fs> much orace din lend her.And madr tnv ncart furm.derYe Nan of Logic-grecn.10Uo more tbe town delights me.Its noify tumult frights msI’ll go wifcre iove'invites me.To Nan of Logie-green.Wy heart ihall ne’er deceive her,1 ne’er in hfe fhafl lerve her;In love and p«acc id’ everWe ll live :> L r*en.27'e Braes e~ Lorn and*By ^ukns*Twas on a Friday-af'gfnoon,I took a trip ah'ion Gic frol/i.To fee a C 'rtc'rt tlicie begin,Aniang the brae- o' Lomond.That day the fnaw my on toe braes.Bright P 'Cebus had witndrswivhi. ravs,Ard Winter asci pur on nei claithes,Amang the braes o’ Lomond.But tho’ without was wet and canid,Within ws werv bailh bivth . a-’d bauld,\V i’ vcc ij Brains frae young and auld,- Amang the br«es o’ Lomond.For the Law laflbs o’ tiie glen,(Bat for their names I dinna ken)They danc’d and fang-till 1 grew fain,Amaiig the braes o’ Lomond.XITheir vocal ftrains war fweet and rare,Nought wi’ their dancing could compare*Aflemblv-baU'? are naething mairTrftn Concerts at Lochlomond.For a’ the youths were diefs d fat gay.Their mufic did fo fwectly play,Thai :llca heart, till brttfc of day,Rejoic'd about Lochlomond.Poetic fire can fcfirce delcriheTheir brauiy a’; without a bribe,And juflice gi’e to ilka tribeAmang the biaes o’ Lomond.For me, l frankly this will fay.Should mm endure m earth for ayjI’d fretlv fpend parpetual dayAmang toe braer o’ Lomond.DESPA'P N-G MARY.Ma-v. wh ' th-vts vrafiethv youth-time in forrow?•St s’ fiidund you »he flowers fwretly blaW ;Bly’he fits th fun o’er the wild ciiffs r' Jura,B1vthe*Cnra the mavi* in ilka piece flinw !H . w onr this heart ever mair think o’ plewfitre?Slmm-r mav fmile. nut delight 1 have none;C, nld in ’he grave lies my heart’s only treafure,Nature fe.m' dead, finee my Jamie i> gane.This ’kerchief he cave me. a true-lover’s token,D sr. dear to me. was the gift for ’hi’ fake;I wear’t near my heart, but this poor heartis broken,Hope died wi’ Jamie, and left it to break Iff£Sighfcg fur hi«, T lie down in the evening;Siglunj? f>r him, I awake in the morn ;Spent were mv day.' a*, in feeret repining;Peace to tin bof xn ca never retuiT.Oft have we wandered in fweeteft retirement,Tclliu^ oar love* .jeatit the mo rn’s fiicntbeam ;twee: we-e our tneating* >'f tender endeanoeiiU,6u> fled are thcf> j .jr*. like a flaet-paili igdream !Cruel remembrance! ah, why wilt thou 'vreck mejBrood in.; o’e* joys that for ever are fl >wn ?Cruel remembrance ! in pity forfak*;Flee to fomt boforn where grief is tuiknewna—X—Taste Life’s GUd Moments*Tafte life’* glad momentsWhilA toe waftine taper glows.Pluck, ere it withers,The quickly fading rofe.M jo bl t'dly foll -w* criet and ca^c,He fetks for thorn;, and fin - ••i'> (hare;While violets to the pafli-5 uir.Unheeded And their bloffoms.Taftc life’s, flee.*3When tlm’rons nature reils her form.And tolling thunder fp-eads alarm,Then ah', ho'v foft, when lull’d the fltfrtn,The fun fmiles fertli at eren.Taflt life1*, Sic.Wno Spleen and envy anxl- flics,And me_k content in humble guife.Imp <;vc' the flirub, a tree (hah «ife,Which golden frui- (lull yield him.Tafie Inc s &c.Wh'’ foften: faith in up’-ight bread,Ai d freely ,’ive? to the diftre-fl’d,The e fw«:.e> contentment builds her neft,A*:d flutters roui'd her bofora.Pafte life’s. &c. tAnd wh -n life’s path .trow< dark and ftrait.And ircffins ills on ills await.Then F'iendfhip, forrow to abate.The helping nand will ffer.Taftt i'ft’s. &c.She drie« his tears, (he Arews his wayEven lo the grave, with fl »sr’rets gay,Turn; night to morn, and morn to day,And pleasure rtill increafes.fade life’s. &c.Of life (he i> the faired band,Joinv brother* truly hand in l and;Thu o: ward to a better land,Man journie* ligm and cho^rly._Tails life’*, &g.14THE GLAD TRUMPET SOUNDS.He was fam’d for deeds of arms,She, a maid of envied charms,Now to him . her love nnpar,s5One pure flame p; rvades both hearts.Honour calls him to the field.Love to corquefl now muft yield ;Sweet maid, he cries, again I’ll come to thee,I’ll come to thee, when the glad trumpet foundsa viclory.Battle now with fury glows,Hoftile blood in torrent flows JHu duty tells him to depart.She preft her hero to her heart.And now the trumpet founds to arms.And now the clafti of war’s alarms 1Sweet maid, &c.He with love and conqueft burns,B *th fubdue his mind by turns;Death the Soldier now enthralls,With his woiHids the hero falls;She, cifdaining war’s alarms,Rulh’d and caugJht bias in her^ajrnis.<9 death 1 o* cried, thoiiVt welcome now to me,Welcome now to me,$pr, hark l the glad trumpet founds a vi$ory.15YO, YEA, or, The Good Ship KITTY.Down top-galiant-fails, ftand b> braces,for now we have weather’d the fea,Would you, lads, fee the ^irls pretty faces,'fafe moor’d at anchor—Yov yea.I fail’d in she good Ship Kitty,with a ftiff blowing gale and rough fea,Left my Polly, the lad> call so prettv,fafe at anchor here—Yo, yea.She blubber’d fait tears when we .partsd,and cried, JJ-jw be conftant to me,I told her not to be Gown-hearted,fo up went the anchor—Yo, yea.From t'uis time no worfe, nor no better,for nothing was thought of but (he ;Gould grog or gin make me forget her?(he’s my cable and anchor—Yo, yea.When the wind w hi filed larboard and flarbcard^and the Perm came on the weather and lee,The hope that i with her (humid be harbour’d,was my cable and anchor—Yo, yea.And now, my boys, would you believe mo,1 return’d with rhino from fea ;But Mifs Polly would not receive me,fo agam I heav'd anchor—Yo, yea.B-23(5THE LA33 OF RICHMOND HILL,On.PJcIimon'd-1 iii 1 there lives a lafs,more bright than May-day inorn.Whofe charms ail other maids furpali,a rofa wuhcu: a thorn.This lafs f>. neat, with fniles fo fwect,won my right good-will ;I’d crsswns rdlgn to call thed mine,ftrcst I.if of Richm nd-in’II.\e zephyrs gay that ian the air,and wanton thro’ the grcve.Oh ! wiiifper to my charming fairyI die for her in love.Hew happv will the Ihtphcrd be,who calls this nymph his own !On 1 may her choice be fix’d on me,mint’s fix'd on her ahme.WILLY NELLY.On a bank of dowers one fummer's daj'jfor fummer’s lightly drefs’d.The youthful blooming Nellv lav,with love aud deep oppr-fs’d;17When Willy, wand’ring thro’ the woody.w o for her favour oft had fil’d,He oaz'd, he wifli'd, he f*ar d, he blufh’d^and treinbied when he flood.Her clofed eyes, like weapons fbeath’d,were feal’d in foft rephfe,Her lips Hill as the fragrance breath’d,it richer dy’d the rofe :Tiie fpringing lillies fweetly prefi d,wild wanton kifs’d her rival breafl;He gaz’d, he wi/h’d, he fear’d, he blufh’d.His bofom ill at refl.Her robe- light waving in the breeze,her tender lirrbs embrace ;Her lovely form, her native cafe,ail namiony and grace !Tumuliuouj tides his pubes roll,a flat ring ardent kifs he Hols:He gaz’d, ic wifh’d, he fear’d, he blufli’d,ana dgh’d ms very foul !As flies the partridge from the brake,on fear-infpired wings,So NelU Harding half-awake,away ffi ightcd fprings:But vViily follow'd as he fliould,he verto k her in the wood ;He v \v d, he pray d, he found tha maj<Jforgiving all and good.'A SUP OF GOOD WHISKY.A fop of good whlftpr will make you glad jToo much of the creature will jnake you mad ;If you take it in reafon, ’twill mak* you wife;If you drink it to exefs, it will clofc up your eyes:Yet Father and Mother,And Sifter, and Brother,They all love a lap in their turn.Some preachers will tell you, to drink it is bad;J think fo too, if there’* none to be bad.The wadler will bid you drink none at all;But while I can get it, a fig for them all.Both Laymen and other,In foite of this pother,Will all take a fup in their turn.SomtDocbrs will tell yoi),’twill hurt your health;And Juftice will fay, ’twill reduce your wealtn:Yhyficians and Lawyers will all agree,"When your money’s all gone, they can get no fee;Yet Surgeon and Doctor,And Lawyer and Broiler,Will all take a fup in their torn.The Turk*, who arriv’d from the Porte Sublime,Tney told ui that drinking washeld a great crime;Yret after their dinner, away they flunk.And tippl;d their wiuei till they got quite drunk.19The Sultan and Grommet.And evtii Mahomat,Tiicy all take a fup in thei. turn.The Quakers will bid you from drink abftainjBy yea, and by nay. tis a fault in the ram ;Yet fame of the Broadbrims will p,et to the ftuff,And tipple away, till they’ve tippled enough.For Stiff-rump and Steady,And Solomon's Ladv,Would all take a fup in their turn.The Germans will fay, they can drink the moftjThe French and Italians will alfo boaft:Hibernia s the country, for all their noife,For generous drinking, and hearty boys :There each jovial fellow,Will drink till he’s mellow.And take off ms glafs in his turn.A NEW IMPROVEDTOUCH ON THE TIMES.Now here’s to every honcfl heart,the poor man s friend, and a’ that.For frags 1 mean to tak their part,while 1 ha’c breath to draw that.For a' that, an’ a' that,I'll tell the truth, an’ a’ that jWc’rc like to ha’e a kittle time,for want o’ trade? an’ a’ that.20The filler it is ill to win,and ill to ware, an a’ that;You’ll hardly get your S.xotnce ?fTfor threepence-worth, an’ a’ that.For a’ that, an’ a’ that,A fairly you may ca’ that;They'll neither gi’c you meal on truft*Nor tak their price for a’ that.I’m was to fee the tradefmen chaps,their Ihillings thin, an’ a’ that;Tiie merchant ea’s’t no worth a groat,it winna do ava that.For a’ that, an’ a’ that,Tobacco done, an’ a’ that;An’ weans grinnin’ roun’ the fire,wi’ hungry kytes, an’ a’ that.They’re fendin’ braw new filler owrefrat Lunnin town, au’ a’ that;They’ll tak the auld trafh in like flour,an’ gar ye pay for a’ that.For a tnat, an’ a' that.An’ whar’s the gude o’ a’ that?Twa Shillings for a peck o’ meal,it is a lhame for a’ that.And our braw gentry, honeft men,get tea an’ toafl, an a that;Their puddins, pies, and cocks and hejlf,and kail, and beef, and a’ that.21.An’ a’ that, an’ a’ that •They1!l fit an’ has!) at; a' that,Tili a’ their we; i five1! d kytes btlyvCjare bent like d:ums, an’ a’ that.Tlity')! I’penci as nnich in ae night's tiniffjon wioe an' mm, an’ n’ that.And ca'crhn,’ li zzies by the \rayme,in C'-z:3 nooks, an’ a’ that.toi- a’ tl a’. an’ a’ that,They’re cofily gear for a’ that,They’ll pay a .guinea ter a wench,for warm breek:., an' a that.There’;- feme of them awa’ to France;to fpenri their time, an a tr.at;They think they’ll ; at a better charesfor chcapej wine, an’ a’ that.For a’ that, an a’ that.They 11 get a cheat for a’ that ;They )! come again, an’ a’ their tailabetween their feet, for a’ that.The Farmer? now may cock their nofe,their corn's dear, an’ a that ;Poor bodies now will fearce get brofe,when they get tea. an’ a’ that.For a’ that, an’ a’ ths'.Their mi:k is dta’-, ah' a’ th aTheir butter, check-, and eggs, and heri?,is double paid, for a’ tha'j22Their fathers us’d to tak their brofe,'wi’ fervant-chields, an a' tliar;And wore a pa'r o’ piaiden hofe,aad huddsn brecks. an’ a’ that:For a’ that an’ a’ that,But now they winra thaw that;Foags they maun hae llieir (liken hofejand jockey boots, an’ a’ tiiat.The carls now that fell the drink,they’re cunnin blades, for a’ that;Though th,y be hurling in the clink,they’re thanklefs brutes for a‘ that.For a‘ that, an‘ a' that,They’ll fit and chat for a1- that ;Till a1- your cadi be fairly fpent,fyne kick you cut for a1- that.Although tlie times be very tight,the laffes dinna (haw that;They’ll hae their tappies curl’d right,like waiei -dogs, an* a; that.For a‘ that, an- a- that.Their morning-caps, an' a4 that;And wallops hanging at their lugs,like bridle-reins, an; a- that.They‘11 hae their (lays and muflin gowj)*,their habit-(hiit?, an - a- that;But fu‘ that pride can a‘ be fecn,their wages difna draw thit.23For a‘ that, an4 a* t”af,Their fathers pay for a4 that;It gars the carls gang right bare,to get them clad, for a' that.Youdl hardly ken the fervant-lafsby the goodwife, for a‘ ti at;When they get on tocir braw pelifia,and hairy muff , an4 a4 that.For a41 at, an* a* that.Their feathers, caps, an4 a4 that,Their faces black as ouy deil,wi‘ blads o- crape, an‘ a‘ that.But if the times donH alter foon,they4!! get a turn for a4 that;They4!! get the'u mither's maunliy-gowu,and tartan plaid, an4 a4 that.For a4 that, an* a4 that,A toy-mutch, an4 a4 that,A cutry-fark o* harn fheet,a worfet brat, an4 a4 that*Behad till ance they get a man,juft •it it be their fa4 that.They'll need to tak the fcrimpcst planto ware their groat, an4 a4 that.F ? a' that, an4 a4 that,And v tea, an4 a4 tlvt;They’ll i > u < o tak their braM peliHi.for bippens yet, for a‘ that.24But furaly times will tak a turn,let‘s live in hopes, for a1 that;Although at prefent we do mourn,we mav get trade for a‘ tltaf.F.>r a’ that, an‘ a‘ that.And milk air mfial an a1- tiiat;Syne well forge- this weary time,And never mind we iaw that.'THE ROYAL ROBE.Come all you Free-Mafonsthat dwdl all round the globe,That wear the badge of innocence,1 mean the Roy i 'b e;Which Noah be did wearin the Ark wherein he stood,When the world wa* destroy'dBy a deluge of flood.O Noah he was righteousin the sight of tha Lord,He loved a Free Masonthat kept the sacred wo^d ;He bub up the Ark.and he planted the firft vine,'jAud his foul, like an aogcl,in heaven doth fbia$.25O when I think of 'v5 fes,it make- ni (<>■ < b ufii.It w:is on tttc M unt < f r) rebw .r - ' favr t e btirmt g bnSi:My fiaff ibrew cow .a n: rn> Ihoe- l caft awa'- .;And "II wand'.t tike a pitgrirnuntil my dying day.*Twas once i was blind,and could iv t fee the light,It was unto Jerufalero,it wat tKre I took tny flightjThey I d me like a pilgrimthrough a wiideruef* of cart^You may fee by the fignand the badge that I wear.O never w;ll I hearn poor orphan to cry...N» :;'J> y t'6 poor virgin,in • tlif day I d'r ?1J 1,. C t t Itflinf' J *.. at wandei ;be vn-i u-id#But i'il k i.ek at the duo-■v -re frutn i to be foo- d.So now a^ai ,0-the Turk''aoo the- !r Sotd' we It light,To iet th< w pciei 'O,- wyrlo kooirthat vie are in the right;Qz6For in heaven there'»t f-'jdj'e,and St. Peter kctpi 'he door jAnd none can enter th /refcut thofc tkat are pure.THE 'TIPPLING FARMER.Good aie comes, and good ale goes,Gtxjd a!£ gnrt me fell my liofe,Sell ms- I • fe, and pjAii my thvmtGood ale kt p,, mv heart aboon.I had four swfen in a plough.,And they drew av teut’h enough,I drank them a4, ane by ace.Good u!e keeps my heart aboon.Good ale copies, &c.Gopd tile keeps Trie bare and b’zv,And gar ms -.rork’when am dizv,And fpend mV wage r en a‘ is done,For good'ale keeps my iieari uboon.f * •I had forty fliillings in a clout,Grtrei ale gart file pick them out,Pick them our. a: sue by ane,Good aL ketps my heart aboon.27I toot the r .iflcfcle pot on mt' bact,Anti to thu ak-h -ufc 1 did pack,I fpent it j • in ai! aCternoon,Foi good i ik keep? nn' iieart aboon.I with they v 'ere a' bang'd on a ga’iows,T! at winna . keep-good ale foe good fellows.And keep a foup till the af cnioon.-Fooi- good a le ktepr- m;- heart aboon.Good ; ale come;. &c.—x—ABRi> .HAM NEWLAKDS.Keveh was a man fo bandit'd by Fame,Itiirc »n. t .iro* ocean, and thro- land.As tine - at if wr-stc Cpo.' every Bank-Note,I and you al i mu ft know Abraham Nevrland.O, A bra! am New Land !Netojio u* Abtaham New'and t! Fve heard n< p!« fay. Sham Abraham you may*t-ut ',au ii usvi.‘t dam Abraham New)and.For faflr.ons of arts, fl.ould yen fcck foreign parts,it matters not wherever you and,From C;; tV an to Greek all language will fpeak,if the laaj uage of AK’aham Newland.O 7. \brabsm Mcwlsnd !Aftii il lilhg Abraham Newland.:W1'a tester y n lack, youdl get in a crack,by the cf. .dit of Abraham xicviland.G *Eiit what do you tliink, \v\ nout V, '^luals or drint,you ma\ tramp like the wa/d it J w, land,From Dublin to Diver, nay, afl ih - world over,if a ftranger 10 Abraham Neivla rd.O, Abraiiam Ncwlar.dWonderful ib.a .am \cwfene \ \Tbo‘ wita cjinpism;.iis e.amnvd, y on may dl«ous of hand,ifycu liaVn’t an Abraham Newli nd»“iThe wa id are inclin'd to think Ji^Ak is blind,yet lawyers k;i jw well Ihe Can vi :*ir land ;.Su: <vha> of ail that?'-—flu- Is b' ok 111 <■■■ a hat.at the <I'4 it o' a then i — tbi a 1am ''T- wiatid.O, Abtaha.n N wl-nddMagical, \brai''iin Newiana :Tho’ JuA.cc, ’ii.. k wo ca i fee t -ns’ a ■nill-.ftone,fb-. •-ati’t fess thro’ Absaham Nktwla :»d.*oui Patriot, iv . > bawl, for the i>ood of us all,and, good fou.'s. like mufh; -om*, the y ftri w all,Hut tho loud as a drum, eac provei 0 -atorWuin,'if attack’d by flout A bra am Ncsfl and.O, Abraham Newlftod !Invincible ■Vb.aham Newland,iNo argument s found in the world half fo found,,as die logic of Abraham N’ewland.\ 'Xitc French fay they’re coming, but fun ;ly they'rehumming;• Vc know wirat they want, if they .J« > land s29But we'll: make their e^rs ring, In defence of-our King,our com ’.try, and Abra; am Newland.t), Abraham Newiand 1Excdl ent Abraham Hewland !Xo tri-colnuir’d elf, nor the devil hinifejf,lhali n -b us of A raham Ncwland.The Maid in Bedlam.<£>ne morning very early;one miircing in the fpring,1 heard a maid in Bedlam,who mournfully did ling ;Her chains fhe rattled in her handsjwhile fleetly thus king file,1 love my love, becaufc l knowmy love loves me.Oh ! cruel were his parents,wiio lent my love to fen ;And qruel, cruel \vas the Ihip,that boj-e my love from me:Yet I love his parents lince they’re his,altho’ th.ey’ve ruin’d me ;Atid 1 love my. love, becaule I knowray love loves me.C33*0 ftiouid p''81”6 fiw pitying Pi* .werj?9to csi’ TO.- !u t! fkI’d claim a ^uardia'- a.-.gei’- c!>«u ^e,arcund my love to fl ,.To guard him fr' m a11 da >ger^ jhow happy rtv'Hld :or ' love my love, becaufir i Uf.onrmy love loves me.. 'I’ll make a ftrawy garlandi,"11 make it vrond’r ur fincj,XVit'i r fe> hllies. da-fi'es.I’ll mix.the eglantine;And I’ll prtfrnl it to my lovo.svren he reium; from fenJot 1 love my love, becauf* 1 knowmy love loves me»O! if I was a little budto budd upon hi* breafliOr if i wa a •liohtingala,to fiiit; my love to reft ;T<' BZt upon nis lore;veyes,all my r ward ibould be ;For 1 love my • 'Ve. becaufe I know,my love lovts ms.O: if 1 were an ea?Ie*t' f ar into th Ik) ;Td . az.. atound w pi, rciilg eye?yKi:er« i my levs rai^ht.tgy :' But ah! unhappy maiden,that h'Te you ne’er flhall feelYc 1 love mv lave becaufc 1 fcuovirmy love lov«s me*' » i __ . •MY NANNY O.Bebikd von hill where Stotdtiar ft.jWJj.’manu muir and iti fie mo .y 0,The winlrv fun the day a clos’dand HI awa to Naunv O'.The Wiiiftitno wind W w louu and fliriH,the nielli’s baith mitK and rainy ) ;But « U ^et my plaid, and cm !. ll deal,and o’er the full to Nanny 0My Nanny ’s charming, fweer and youngsi,ao ar ful vnlo to wi ■ ye O jMav ill b fa’ the flaaering tonguet iai wad jeguile my Nanr.v O.Her lace is fair, her heart ts ;i ue,a- fporjefs ai fhe’s bonny );The pening go wan. wet wi’ dew,nae purer is than Nanny O.A country lad is my degree,an’ few they be ti*ai ken me O';But wh y c-,rr i , >w f. w :■ be,I’jTi'welcome to my Nanny Q»32My ric';c? a’s mv ptnr.y f;e,and l msua guiae ii canny O •Du» war'd!) jicar ne’er troubles ra<?,my thoughts are a’ my Nanny O.Our auld gudeman dcKgiits to viewQifep and kyne thrive bonny O ;But !’m aj blyth that l auds his plough,and hae nae cate but Nanny O.Come wed, come wae, 1 corena by,i! tak what Heaven will fend me OiNae i'.her care in life hae i,but iive and love mv Hanny O.FAIR SUSANNA, ••Ask if yon damafk n fc be fwcet,t!.a'. (cents tiie ambient air ?Then -.Ik each fhepoerd that you meet,Jt deai Sufanna s fair ?Say, Will the Vulture quit Ids prey, “and warble ti,rough me gtdve ?Bid wanton Linnets quit the fp ay tthen doubt thy Sbepherd’s-k vc.The fpoils of war let heroes lharclet pride and Iplendor Chine ;Ye Bargs, unei.vy’d laurels tvsar,be f^ir dufanna niins.33THE SAILOR’s RETURN.Behol'D from m-.ny an hoftile fbore,and .ill ih. danjicrs of the main,\fcliert bdh-w? mtai't. ar‘d teir.pefts,roar,y ur faithful nm return a pain ;Returns, amr win him b'Uips a hfart,Tnai ne'er from Sally fltall depart.After long tolls and tt ufclr* part,hoi* fweet to tieod our native foil!With c queft to return at (aft,and otek om fw-eiticart- witn the fpoil!Nonne to bcaut\ (h .iilo p etend,But luco as dare its tights defeno.PRETTY SALLY.TChek late 1 wander’d o’er the plain.From nymph to nymph, ! flrovd in vain,Mr wild defir*- to rally, to rally.My wild defiree to r*!—Jy ;But now they ra of tliemfrlves come homciAnd ftrange ! no lengtr witli to roaimThey centre till in Sally, in Sal)yantcy centre all ia. Sal-—ly.«34Yet (he, unkind onr, damps my joy,And cries, I cc'Urt but so deftroy :Can iovc with ruin tally- rum tally JMy mind defir^s to ral—!v :'Ey tliofe dear lijis, thofc eyes, I ("wear,I w*-u!d ail dea- s, all to.iuent> bear.Rat er than injurt Sally, irjure tiaily,Rather than njure Sal—ly.Cim; then, O.h! come-, ti ou Tweeter farThan violets and rofes arc,O- ‘illie? of the valley, of the valley',v liUres of flic va!—ley :O r • •ow lave, and q..iif your fear,Hcbl uide you to hefe arnir, my dear,A,>; tTfjke you bleft in Sally, jn -Sally,And make you bk-ft in Sal—!y,YOUNG ANNIE,.Wans brati’y blazee htav’nly br:ghf,the Mule can no m ;ie ceafe to (in^j,Titan can tire lari: with r (Ing light,her notes neglect with drooping wing.The morniirg flun'es, hurmoniou.; birds rife high,The dawning^:auty iitiiics. and poets fly.Young Annie’s budding graces claim •tli'infpired Uiougnt^ and fofveft lays.And kindle in the hreaft a dams 'which mu ft be vented in her prs’fc-Tell us. ye fhepherd?, have ye fceoE’er one fo like an angel tread the green |Ye yut'ns, be watchful < f y-ur hearts,when (he appears, take the alarm 1Love on her beauty points the dart;,..and wings an arrow frotr! each charm.Around her eycr ttud Ijtiiles the graces fportjAnd to her fnewy neck and breaft refort.But va'in mu ft every caution prcfve,when fucit .enchanting fwectntfs (hirves,The wounded Twain mull yield to iove,aud wonder, tho1 he hop'ciefs pints.Such dame tire foyr,iil; 'bntreihly (Ir uld (hun ;Tiic eagle’s only lit to view the fun.She’s as the oper.ing Idly fair .her lovily features are complete ;TV hi! ft Heaven, in iulgertt. make? her fliare,wKh angels, ail that’s w.ie and fwcet.Tntfe virtues which divin«!y deck her mind.Exalt each other of tii inferior k:n.;.V.’hether (lie love' the rural fccr.cr,or fparkle in the airy towr,O ! happy-he-, thy favour gair.r,unhappy, if fnc ou - im (rown.The Ivlufc unwilling quit the lovely theme;Adieu file ftngs, and thrice repeats her name.36The LOVER’. SUMMONS.Arsse thou Sovereign of my heartyard d* not ant difdain .Gomt n vr ai d quickly take a partwith me. you c quer’d fwaiu.* • >;• S. M k Hi I* *To y-iii alooe i am a ftave.there’s n ne on var?'i can cureTh** fi ,me tijiat iri my beeaut 5 liave,for you I d*i tnau't.Comi now, iear nymp'u and tafe the bear!of me your darliog (wain jMv i ve fijr you w hi'i my inart,.ioc c >h<i'::’U!y rsmaiii.- X7 ’w w< i" Hymyn’i bauds wifi wedjour iicp.m united more ;In iovt d'v< w-iVout any dread,andj >ys nr evermore.THE B anks of doon.Ye ba^k ami, hrac- of bon y Doon,ow can you bf-jpm fc> frrih ana fair.How can your b'u (beam row fo clear,wticn I’m iu wcarylu o’ care ?37Ye’ll break my heart, ye little birds,t’at wa! ten on,yon fluw'ry riiorn;Ye mind me of departed joys,departed never to return.Aft have t roam'd by bonny Doon,N to fee the role and Wooribir'r twine,Whar ilka bird fant; of it’s love,and fae did wi’ glee of mine.Wi’ liglitfome heait l pu’d a rofc,the fweciefl on it's thrrry t’ee.But rj' falle love has ftown th.e rofe,and ohl -he’s left the thorn wi’ me.THE SAILOR’S ADfEUVThe topfail di vci in the wind,the flvp flae caft- to fea ;But yet my foul my heart, me mini,are. Mary, moor’d wjti) thee:for too tm Sailors bound afar,Still love fhaii be his leading flar.Should landsmen fla'ter when we’re fail’d,O ,oubt ti<ir artful tales;Nr . adant Sailor ever fail’d,tf Gupio filLd the fails:Tbbu art the compafs o( rav foul,Fi’hieli fteers my hea.t from pole to poif#3^Sirens in every port wre meet,irmr# fell than roclts nr waives ;But Sailors of the Britifh fle*tare lovers, and not llaves :No foes our courage fliall fubdue,Altho’ we ve left our hearts with you,Thefe are our cares, but if you’re kind,we’ll fcorn the dalhing main.The locks, the billows and the wind,ttie powers of Fiance and Spain.Now Britain s glory reds with you.Our fails arc full—fwc.et gii is adieu.MARY OF GLENKILLOCH.Will ye go to Glcnkillpch, Mary,wnere the burnie fa’s owrc the linn ?Its murmurs are dearer to me, Mary,when borne on the faft breathing win\The fun Qicds nis beams, my Mary.on he white bh.fTom <1 Hawthorn ireje ;But his beams art . ought to me, Mary,compar'd with thy love-glancing c’e.The woodlark Cugs fweet my Mary,at eve, in me green leafy grove ;But his ftraint art ftil! Tweeter my Mary,when with tlxe I joyfully rovaV39Hafte then to the glen, my Mary,ere lummer frac us vnU be gane:0 fay that thou lovcC me, Mary,'twill' tafe my fond heart o’ its pain.SWEET WILLY O.Tre pr;de of all nature was fwcet Willy O,The pride of a*l! na-tnre was fwett Willy Oj. Ti e fir ft of all AvainSjHe gladden’d the phint;T7tr,c tv:f tPw i’.U :« ti.c fwett Willy O. 'He fung it fo rarely did fweet Willy O,Hr. ftr'gyt &e-He meittd each maid,S:> fk'll'u! he p!?y’d,X j fh;p -erd e’er pip’d like £he fweet Willy Q*.AH nn*ure obev’d ium, the fweet Willy O,All Jiature. ,£cc.AVhctevcr he came,W'hatevei had rame.Whenever he lung, follow’d'fweet WillyHe would be a S.ddicr, the fweet Willy O,He would., &n.V'iici) arm’d ig the fieldWith f.vord and witii ftiield.The laurel was won bv fweet AVjlly ©iD zHe charm'd thsm while living, the fweet Will)’O,He charm’d 8cc,Arid wiiett Willy dy'd,’Twa5 naiare that fish’d,To part with her afl in her f.veet Willy O*f v ■ - ^ “ ' •i ^ * •NOBODY NO.Tv.'je — Ge-bo Dobbin.To fjng yoy a fong, ^ 1 m7 intention,S'.imc folks I mig t la'Ji’l* ar ye?, N boflymention ;SJobody you fay, fure that muft be ruffAt finging I’m Ncfcodv, ;r,ut s the fiid proof.eTtoRtJSNo Nobody, No Nobody, Nobody, Nobody,Nobody No,*ris N.)b->dy_ Nobadv fee? tVe pranks p'ay’d,Wlien Nobody’s by. betwix Mafter and Maid,Wneii £he cries cut Be cju.et, f.meb idy willhear us!He. jfmtly replies, Child, Nobody r near us.N* Nobody, &c.But big with child proving, £be's quicklydifcaidcd,41When examined, fhe cries, Ye mortals forbid ityIf Tm got with child, ’twas Nobody did it.No Nobody, &c.When by Health tha gallant the wanton W’.6fleaves,His footfteps are'heard, arid her fpanfe cries,’ Hs thieves !He ftarts In a fright.', and cries loudly, Whofethere*?His wife pats his cheek, and fays, Nobody dear*No body, &c«N-body’s a name every b^dr will own* iWhen fometr.ing they Ihould be afliam'd of, i* done:a name very fit far old.Maids and young.Btauxs.F"r what they were made for, Nobody fenowiJNo Njbbdy. &c.Of Nobody now enough has been fung,If Nobody’s angry, ti-.en Nobody w: ng ;I hope for free (peaking 1 lhali not be biarn d.Foi w o can be ai gryNo Nobody, &c.when Nobody’s nain’d^Jf >D3r4*r ' ♦A MASON SONG.Tuxe—In the garb of eld Gaid.|f» tha dre£ of Free Mafons.-fi1 Earments for Jore,With the ftrorigeft attachroent. uuebrothcriy love.We now are afT mbi'd. ali jovial and free.For who arc fa wife, am; fo happy a' wc ?And fi Ce we’re bound by fecreey to unity &Let us, like brethren, faithful to ev’^y brotfceyprove :Thus, hand in hand, let’s firmly {land.All Mafons in a ring,Prote&ors of o‘ar native land,The Craft, and the Xing.Tho’ fonts, with ambition, for glory contend,.And when they’ve attain’d it, defpife each poorfriend,Ye a Mafon, tho’ fiob’e, his fame to infure,Counts each Mafon his brother tho’ ever fo poor*A d fincc we’re bound, &c-But not to our brethren alone we t^mfincThat bn rherU lore, tha off.vlion divine ;For our k:r.dshearted fillers in that bear a lhare tAna, as we «dm; e, wt’^c beloy'd by t - fair.And finer we’re b- uno bv frcrecy to unit & hive*Let n*, like brethren taitniul ftill to eVry Mcfprove,43TTith-Ju&ce, with candour, cur be foms are wfcrm’dkOur tongue, are wiUi truth and firct/i*ity arnt’djWe’re loyal, we’re trufly, we’re faithful to thofe,Who treat us as friends, and we fmile at our feesjAnd fince we re bound. See.We bend to the King, to our Mafter we bendFar thefe are the fillers we’re bound to defendAnd when fuph a King, fa»h a biafter arife,As Britons, as Jifafons, we ve czvic to rejoics*And fines we re bound. &c.•« » ' ■ \ \ '*■'1, , . r- 4'-*i ,<7- n-i t *.I AM NOT TWENTY,As thro’ the grove the other day,I gang’d fo blythe ^nd bonny.Who fhould.I inset upon the wayBat my true invar Johnny ;W’ith eager hafle he ciafp’d my waiil^and k fles gave mr plenty.Tho’ 1 deny’d a id thu^ reply’d,l>.ar lat), 1; am not twenty.What s that to me. the fhepherd cry’d,you’re old enough to many.Then c me farcer lafi. and be my britipj.1 'bo longer Ut Ui tarry j44Hut TslY bigone, o’er yonder Ia\»ntwhere lads and lafTes plenty,Are fill'd ^rith joy, and kifs and to’^altho’ they are not twenty.I liften’d to his foothirg tale,and gang’d with hint* fo rarely,With long and pipe he did prevail,he won my wilhes fairly ;O! he’s the lad, tnat makes me gl,with k ffes fweet and plenty ;So 1 declara, by all that’s fair,111 wed tho’ not quite twenty!Mind Ilu'sy whit youWrttx T was of a tender age,and In my you t: fit! pi me,My mother oft wou’J, in a rage,cry, Girl, take care in time ;For you arc now fo forward grown,the men will ycni purlue :And all the day this wa* cr tone,Mind, hufly. what vott do!Regardlefs of her fond an vice,i haften d o’er the ptain.Where l wa» cou-te., in a nice,bv each voting Sylvan fwnaat 145Yet, by the bye, mu ft declare,I virtue b*d in v: wAltho’ mV m: t?ier cry’d, Beware,Mind, '".uff wiiat ycu do !To EJlamun, gayeft of tre green,I gave my youti ful t ana.His blooming facr and comely rakn,1 cou’d nwi well witnfiand.But ftralght to c. uic we trip: away,witrt hearts botn firirt ar.d t. ue,Ai> then mv mother ceas’d to fay.Mind, lufjy. w a' you do 1Yc Isffij all attend to me,<*uC hence this-ltffiiu learifc,,r ;.,ui mine a man you fee,ne'er look tnoiofe or HernBut taka him win. a free good wili,ftiould he have love f t you,Attoo y ui tsothfcr’s crying (till,Mino. nudj', what you oo 1THS TA LOR GAME.TO CLOU7THE CLA1SE.Tue Tailor caftie to clout the claife,Sic a braw fellow 1He fiiTd the hnafe a’ fiT o’ flacs,Daffin dowo, and dt.fR ' down,• He fi t . tf e iiouf. a fu' o’ flae*,down and diily.46The lafKe n<pt a\ ont the fiVo,Sic a bi aw liifTey!Oh ! (he was a’ his heart’s dtfire,Dufrri down, and dafixn down,Oh ! Ihe was, &c.The laf^e fee fell faft aflrep.Sic a braw tTifTey IThe I'aildv clofe to li*r did creep,dowi, and dtffin down,The Failor, &o.The lafTi* waken’d in a fight!A . ' ^ yt l5'.C ^ ^ !yj«r maiden-head liad ta’en the night,D ffi i down, and daffi i down.Her maidenliead. &c.She fougiit it ’-.utr', fee fought It bsn,• Sic a braw hiflby !And in beneath the clocking hen,DifKa d: wn, and uaffin down.And in beneath, Sec.She fougi’.t it in *he owfen-flaw,Sic a braw hifT.y !Na fiiith, quo’ ihe. it’s quite awa’ ;Dafii i down, and daffii d. wnjNa, fauhj &c.47She fought It ’yout the knccking-flar.e,S c a braw bifll-y!fne tlav quo’ (he, ’twill.Rangfits lane,D ffm dawn, and deffLi^dcwn,Some day, quo’ (he. &c., '' v ■ . ♦She ca’d tlic Tailor to tlie .court,Sic a braw hiffey !And »’ ti;e young men round about,Di.ffir: down, and dafTu. dcivu,And a’ tue young men, &c.She gat’d the Tailor pay & fine,Sic a braw hiffey 1Ci e me my maidenhead again,D„fiin down, and daffir^down,Gi’c me my maideniiead, &e.O what way wad ve bat*.! again ?Sic » brow hiffty!O! juft rlu way that it war ta’en,down, and dalfin diiv.n,Qi. ! juft the way that it w&; taTu,Dud in d«w: nd dilly.v *F I N I S.CONTENTS.Earl Moira's$age.Farewel, ----- SJamie frae Dundee, -The Lass of Arranteinic, - - - -Buxom bonny Willie, - - - - -The Sorrowfitl Alother, • - -Young Donald of Dundee, - - -Han o' I.ogic-Green, - - - - -TAe Braes o’ Lomond, - - - -Despairing Mary, ------Ta«te Life's glad moments, - - -TAe o;W Trumpet sounds a Victory, ~Yo Yea, or. The Good Ship Kitty, -The Lass of Richmotxd Hill, - - -Willy and Nelly, - - - - - -A Sup of good Whisky, -An Improved Touch on the Times,The Royal Robe, 24-—The Tippling Farmer, 2GAbraham Neudands, — — — — — 27The Maid in Bedlam, 29—My Nanny O, 31Fair Susanna, 32—The Sailor's Return, 33Pretty Sally, 33 — Young Annie, — - 34*The Lover's Summons, — — — 36Banks of Doon, 36—Thj Sailor's 4dieu, 37Alary of Glenkilloch, ' — - — — — 38Szveet WiUy O, 39 — Nobody, No, — — MiA Mason-Song, 4-2 — I am not Twenty, 43Aline? Hussey what you do, — — — 44The Tailor came to Clout the Claise, — 45678910111214.1516ib.1819Falkirk—T. Johnston, Printer.