CHRISTTHE ONLY REFUGE - iFROMTHE IVBATH TO COME.To which is add’d.The Christian Drummer.An interesting Story.IAlso,‘ITHE HISTORY AND ADVENTURES OFBun, the Soldier;Gir’ng s.a Account of his vrcnderful Ccaversion.-K • &*¥* •>#&1LMAAIS 'JLK :PRINTED EY H. CRAWFORD,/’Or ihe HookiclUrt.iS19.iChrist the only Refuge, See.GIVE me leave to relate an uncommon incidentwhich happened, a little while ago, in thisneighbourhood, and of which I myself was aspectator. The day was the Sabbath : the placeappropriated to divine worship was the scene ofthis remarkable affair.A bov came running into the church, breath¬less and trembling. He told, but in a low voice,those who stood near, that a press-gang was ad- :vancing to besiege the doors, snd arrest the sail-ors. An alarm was immediately taken. Theseamen, with much hurry, and no small anxiety,began to shift for jhemselves. The rest of thecongregation, perceiving an unusual stir, werestrude with surprise.—A whisper ot inquiry ranfrom seat to seat, which increased by degrees in¬to a confused murmur. No one could inform hisneighbour; therefore every one was left to solvethe appearance, from the suggestions of a timo--rous imagination. Some suspected the town wason fire. ^Some were apprehensive of an invasionfrom the French. Others looked up, and lookedround to see if the walls, were not giving way,and the roof falling upon their heads. In a fewmoments, the consternation became general. Themen stood like statues, in talent amazement, andunavailing perplexity. The women shrieked a-3loud, and fell into hcs. Nothin.? was seen'butwild disorder; nothing heard but tunultutfusclamour.— The Preacher’s voice was drowned.Had ha spoken in thunder, his message wouldscarcely have been regarded. To have gone onwith his work, amidst such a prodigious ferment,had been like arguing with a whirlwind,1 or talk¬ing to a tempest.This brought to my mind that great tremen-duous day, when the heavens will pass a%vav,when the earth will be dissolved, and ail its in¬habitants receive their final doom.—If, at suchincidents of very inferior oread, our hearts areready to fail •, what, unknown and inconceivableastonishment must seize the guilty conscience,when the hand of the Almighty shall open thoseunparalleled scenes of wonder, desolation, andhorror !—When the trumpet shall sound—Thedead arise—The world be in flames—The Judgeon the throne—And all mankind at the bar !The trumpet shall sound, (1 Cor. xv. 52.) saysthe prophetic teacher, and how startling, ho'wstupendous the summons ! Nothing equal to it,nothing like it, was ever heard through ?1L the re¬gions of the universe, and all the revolutions oftime ^—When conflicting armies have dischargedthe bellowing artihery of war, or when victoriousarmies have shouted for joy of the conquest, theseas and shores have 'rung, the mountains an 1plains have echoed. But the voice of the Arch¬angel, and the trump of G d, will resound frompole tq pole. They w}ih shake trte piilarsmf hea¬ven, and startle the dungeon of hell. Tiny willpenetrate the Repast recesses of this,tomb. Theywill pour their amazing thunder into all those a-bodes of silence. The dead, the very dead shallhear.When the trumpet has sounded, The dead shailarise.—In a moment, ill the twinkling of an eye,the graves open i the monumental piles are cleftasunder ; and the nations under ground start intoday. What an immense harvest of men ahd wo¬men, springing »p from the caverns of the earth,and the depths of the sea ! Stand awhile, my soul,and consider the wonderful spectacle—Adam,formed in Paradise, and the babe, born but yes¬terday, the earliest ages, and latest generations,meet upon the same level. Jews and Gentiles,Greeks and Barbarisms, people of all climes andlanguages, unite in the promiscuous throng.Here those vast armies, which, like swarms oflocusts, covered countries, which, with an irre¬sistible sweep, overran empires ; here they allappear, and here they are lost; lost like the smalldrop of a bucket, when plunged into the unfath¬omable and boundless ocean. Gh ! the multi¬tudes ! the multitudes ! which these eyes shallsurvey, when God calleth the heavens from aboveand the earth that he may judge his people Whatshame must flush the gurlty Cheek ! What an¬guish wound the yrkHutod oreact! To have all theirfilthy practises and infamous tetr.pers exposed be¬fore this innumerable crowd of witnesses ! Fly,guilty sinners, instantly ‘fly, earnustly fly to thepurifying blood of Jesus, that all your sins may beblotted out, that ru may be found unblameableand unreprovable m the presence of the assembledworld, and, what is infinitely more to be revered,in the sight of the omnipotent God.There is no more need of this habitable globe.fk-5The elect have fought a good fight, and finishedtheir course. The vdcked have been tried, andfound incorrigible. Woe be to the earth, .and tothe works thereof ! Its stream? are turned intopitch, its dust into brimstone, and the breath ofthe Almighty, like a torrent of fire, enkindles thewhole—bee, see, how the conflagration rages—spreads—prevails over all ! The forests are in ablaze, and the mountains are wrapt in flame.—CitieSjkingdoms, continents, sinlj into theburningdeluge. London, Britain, Europe, are no more !Through all the receptacles of water, through tV.tire tracts of land, through the whole extent of air,nothing is discernible but one vast, prodigious, fi¬ery ruin.—Where are now the treasures of thecovetous ? Where the possessions of th^ mighty?Where the delights of the voluptuous? How wise,how happy are they whose portion is lodged inheavenly mansions ! Their inheritance is incor¬ruptible ; such as the last fire cannot reach, northe dissolution of nature impair. 'But see, the azure vault cleaves. The expanseof heaven is rolled back like a scroll ; and theJudge, the Judge appears ! He corceth, cries amighty seraph, the herald of his approach, Hecotneth, to judge the world in righteousness, andminister true judgment unto the people : Hecometh, not as formerly, in the habit of a servantbut clad with uncreated glory, and magnificentlyattended with the armies of heaven. Angels andthe Archangels stand before Him, and ten thou¬sand times ten thousand of those celestial spiritsminister unto him.—Behold Him, ye followersof the Lamb, and wonder and love. This is He,who bore all your iniquities on the ignominious0CroES. \ his is He, who fulfilled all righteous¬ness for the justification of your persons. BeholdHim, ye despisers of his grace, and wonder andperish. 1 his is He, whose merciful overtures youhave contemned, and on whose precious bloodyou have trampled.The great white throne, beyond description, iserected. The King of Heaven, the Lord of glory,takes his seat or. the dreadful tribunal. Mercy,on his right hand, displays the olive branch ofpeace, and holds forth the crown of righteousness.Justice, on his left, poises the impartial scale,and unsheaths the sword of vengeance. WhileWisdom and Holiness, brighter than ton thou¬sand suns, beam in his divine aspect. What areall the prececding events to this new scene ofdignity and awe f 1 he peals of thunder soundingin the Archangel’s trumpet, the blaze of a burn¬ing world, the strong convulsions of expiringnature; the unnumbered myriads of the deadstarting into instantaneous life, anil thronging theastonished skies ; all these seem familiar incidents,compared with the appearance of the incarnateJehovah—Amazement, mote than amazement,is all around. Terror and glory unite in theirextremes. From the sight of his majestic eye,from the insupportable splendours of his face, theearth itself and the very heavens flee away —How th cn—Oh, how shall the ungodly stand—stand in his angry presence, and draw near to thisconsuming fire.Yet draw near they must, and take their trial,their decisive trial, at his righteous bar. Everyaction comes under examination. For each idleword they must give account. Not so much as aWmmIa secret thought escapes his scrutiny. How shallthe criminals, the impenitent criminals, eitherconceal their guilt or elu.le the sentence ? Theyhave to do with a sagacity too keen to be deceived;with a power, too strong to be resisted ! and (oh*terrible, terrible consideration,) with a severityof most just displeasure, that will never relent,never be entreated mere—What ghastly despairappear in their faces ! What racking agonies rendtheir distracted hearts ! The b'oody axe and tor¬turing wheel are ease, are down, compared withtheir prodigious woe. And (O holy God ! won¬derful is thy doings ! fearful in thy judgments 1)even this prodigious woe is the gentlest of visita¬tions, compared with that indignation and wrathwhich are hanging over their guilty heads—whichare even now falling on all the sons of rebellion—which will plunge them deep in aggravatedand endless destruction.And is there a List day ? And m ast there comeA sure, a fired, irrecoverable doom ?Surely, then, “ the main care of our livesshould be to obtain peace and acceptation beforethe dreadful tribunal of God.” And what is suf¬ficient for this purpose but righteousness ( Whatrighteousness, or whose ? Our’s, or Christ’s ?Our’s, in the inherent graces wrought in us, inthe holy works wrought by us? Or Christ's, inhis most perfect obedience and meritorious satis¬faction, wrought for us, and applied to us ? GodIs as direct on this subject, as his word can makehim •, evere blazoning the defects of our ownrighteousness, every where extolling the perfectobedience of our Redeemer.iieho’d ! says the everlasting King, “ I lay in-iI-r^-v-arI-rISion, for a foundation, a stone; a tried stone, aprecious corner stone, a sure foundation : he thatbelieveth shall not make haste.” Isa. ixxviii. 16.As this text contains so noble a display of ourSaviour’s consummate ability for bis great work,as it is admirably calculated to preserve the mindfrom distressing fears, and to settle it in a steadytranquility, I will touch it cursorily with my pen.How beautiful the gradation ! How lively theaccount, and how very important the practicalimprovement! Come, look at the inscriptionwhich is engraven on this wonderful stone—Behold ! Intended to rouse and fix our most at¬tentive regard. The God of Heaven speaks. Hespeaks, and every syllable is balm j every sentenceis rich with consolation. If ever, therefore, wehave ears to hear, let us bend them to thisspeaker, and on this occasion.A stone. Every thing else is sliding sand, isyielding air, is a breaking bubble. Wealth willprove a vain shadow •, honour ah empty breath :pleasure a delusory dream; our own righteous¬ness a spider’s web. If on these we rely, dis¬appointment must ensue, and shame is inevitable.Nothing but Christ, nothing but Christ, can stablysupport bur spiritual interests, and realize ourexpectation of true happiness. And blessed bethe divine goodness ! He is, for this purpose, nota stone only, butA tried stone. Tried, in the days of his hu¬manity, by ail the vehemence of temptation, andall the weight of affliction ; yet, like gold fromthe furnace, rendered more shining and illustriousby the fierv scrutiny.—Tried, under the capacityof a Saviour, by millions of millions of depraved,-\i. -9wretched, tuined creatures, who have alwaysfound him perfectly able, and as perfectly willing,to expiate the mos- enormous guilt, to deliverfrom the most inveterate corruptions, and to saveto the very uttermost, all that come unto Godthrough him.A corner stone. Which not only sustains,but unites the edifice; incorporating both Jew*and Gentiles, believers of various languages, andmanifold denominations—here,in one harmoniousbond of orotherly love—hereafter, in one commonparticipation of eternal joy.A precious stone. More precious than rubies;the pearl of great price, and the desire of allnations.—Precious, with Vegard to the divinedignity of his person, and the unequalled excel¬lency of his mediatorial offices. In these, and allrespects, greater than Jonah, wiser than Solomon,fairer than the children of men, chiefest amongten thousand, and to the awakened sinner, or en¬lightened believer, altogether lovely.A sure foundation. Such as no pressure canshake, equal, more than equal to every weight,even to sin, the heaviest load in the world.—The rock of ages, such as never has failed, neverwill fail, those humble pepitents, who cast theirburden upon the Lord their Redeemer; who rollall their guilt, and fix their whole hopes, on hisimmoveable basis.—Or, as the words may be ren¬dered, A foundation !, a foundation ! There is %fine spirit of vehemency in the sentence, thus un¬derstood. It speaks the language of exultation,and expresses an important discovery.- Thatwhich mankind infinitely want; that which mul¬titudes seek, and find not; it is here ! it is here!04This, this is the foundation for their pardon, itheir peace, their eternal felicity.VVhosoever helieveth, though pressed with ad¬versities, or surrounded by danger, shall notmake haste. But, free from tumultuous and per¬plexing thoughts, preserved from rash and pre¬cipitate steps, he shall possess his soul in patience. .Knowing the sufficiency of those merits, and thefidelity of that grace, on which he has reposedhis confidence, he shall quietly, and withoutperturbation, wait for an expected end —Andnot only amidst the perilous or disastrous changesof life, but even in the day of everlasting judg¬ment, such persons shall stand with boldness.T hey shall lock up to the grand Arbitrator—lookround on all the solemnities of his appearance—look forward to the unalterable sentence—andneither feel anxiety, nor fear damnation.Reader, these awful scenes must pass beforethine eyes, and thou wilt feel an interest in them,infinitely more impressiye and affecting than allthy present joys or sorrows. Let thy unworthi¬ness, fear, and guilt, be now ever so great,there is hope concerning thee ; for Jesus is 1 ex¬alted a Prince and a Saviour to give repentanceand remission of sins/ but when thou shall see,‘ thy God in -glory, and the world, on fire,’ no¬thing will then remain for thee, hut a ‘ certainfearful looking for of judgment, and fiery indig¬nation / or the immediate and happy expectationof being received 1 into the jov of the Lord.”May God deliver thee from the bitter pains ofeternal death, and bestow on thee the ojeriousblessings of everlasting life and salvation ! -The Christian Drummer.. . i .IN the summer of 1819, when travelling inAyrshire with Mr. H , preaching in thevarious towns and villages which we visited ; ar¬riving at a considerable town in the south, westopped at the principial inn. After dinner, worequested the master of the inn to send for thebelfman of the town, to give notice of a sermonfor the evening. In about a quarter of an hourhe reported that neither the bellman nor boy wereat home. In a little time .he returned to $ell ushe had seen a Drummer belonging to an Englishregiment then stationed in the.town, whqm liehad asked to intimate the sermon, and that hewast gone to the commanding officer to obtain hispermission'. In a short time the Drummer, aboutforty years of age, came into our room, wearinga large Hungarian cap. He told us that the com¬manding officer had no objection to his intimatingthe sermon, and asked us what he should, say.We( desired him to inform the inhabitants thatthere would be sermon in the middle of the townprecisely at seven o’clock in the evening. .When he was gone, we wept out to take awalk along the banks of the rivtr which ran at theback of,one of the streets. When we came to apart of the river where there was only a high wailbetween us and the street, the Drummer beat hisdrum behind it. We stopped to overhear whathe would say. After intimating what we haddesired him, he made the following address i12‘ Now, my friends, I hope you will all come Iand hear this sermon, llie Gospel is 19 be preach¬ed as free as from the lips of Jesus Christ himself, ;for there is to be no collection Ho, every onethat thirsteth, and he that hath no money, comebuy wine and milk without money and withoutprice.5On hearing this intimation, we looked at eachother with considerable surprise, and remarkedthat we certainly should have a large congregatibn,which was the ease. The Drummer was the onlysoldier present owing to the evening parade beingat the same hour in the skirts of the town ; butthe commanding officer had said to him, ‘ John,as you are to intimate this sermon, I suppose youwou’d like to hear it, so you need not attempt pa¬rade Ho-night, but go and hear the setmbn.’After sermon we invited the Drummer to callupon us at the inn. When he came, Mr. H offered him two shillings for his trouble, in givingthe intimation. He"‘looked rather surprised atbeing offered any remuneration, and said, • Sir, Iwill not have money. I am as much interested inthe propagation of the Gospel as you are. 1 neverwent with so much pleasure through a town witha drum in all rr.v life; we have been laying heresix or seven weeks, and I have not found oneChristian yet in the whole town. I thought whenyou were to preach—now God may perhaps con¬vert some of these people by this sermon. Wehave two short sermons in this town on Sabbath ;I do not know what is preached, bnt sure i amthat it is not the Gospel/We then asked him to sup with us. He ana-wered, ‘ I must go and consult^tty wife ■, if she13has no objection, i am sure i have noiit.’ He re¬turned in a few minutes, when we placed him atthe head of the table Then we requested that asfnany of the family, 2cc. as could attend worshipwould come up stairs. The family, waiters, ser¬vants, hostlers, and two or three ladies from theneighbourhood, attended. As usual, v/e read achapter in the Bible, gave a short address from itto the company present, and went to prayer.After supper, we requested the Drummer toFavour ns with his history, which he did withgreat modesty in the following words, which arehe?rly his own :‘ I have been (said he) twenty-four years in thenavy and army together \ till tour years ago I wasthe wickedest wretch in either. Cur regimentwas then lying at Hull. I was seized with anunaccountable melancholy ; it was not about re¬ligion ; I do not know what it was, but I wasmiserable. One evening as I was walking on thecommon very unhappy, l observed a churchlighted up, which convinced me there was to be asermon preached in it, but I durst not go, lest mycomrades should laugh at me for attending a ser¬mon on week-day. I knelt down bn the common,and prayed to God to give me courage to go ipchurch. When I rose from prayer, I went direct¬ly to church. The mini-ster was preaching cm be¬lieving on the Lord Jesus Christ. Immediatelywhen I was seated, the minister said, ‘ If it couldbe of the smallest service to the meanest personpresent, I would come doufn from the pulpit, andon my bended knees beseech that person to believeon the Lord Jesus.’ Thought I, this must be amighty matter surely, that a gentleman would14-come down from the pulpit, and on his bendedknees beseech a poor Drummer to believe on theLord Jesus Christ. That, with the remainder ofthe sermon made a deep impression on my mind.I went home to my wife. She met me at thedoor. I said to her, Jdrte, we are all wrong : weare living like be'asts, we know nothing about be¬lieving on the Lord Jesus Christ Poor thing !she trembled, for she thought I had lost my rea¬son : but (said 1) Jane, I am not mad, but youand I are going to destruction. I understand thatthe Bible will tell us every thing; but we have nota Bible, and if we had. we cannot read it. O, saidshe, we can buy a Bible, and our little boy, whois only twelve miles off, can read it to us. Ac¬cordingly we sent for our boy, and also boughta Bible. When he came home, we d.esired him tobegin at the first page, and so forward to the .endof the book, we often gave him two suppers to keephim from sleep, for he got drowsy with reading.‘ I used to rise very early in the morning to hearmore of the Bible ; hut I would say, it is cruel towake my hoy so ear’y, and would give him ano¬ther hour of sleep. Then he rose, and began toread where he had stopped the preceding night.;ancf we both sat listening to our boy reading thehook He read slowly, for he had many words tospell. At length God opened my poor blind eyesto see that Jesus Qhiist was the very Saviour thatI stood in need of. O how happy I was ! Ourboy read onward, arid after some time the Lord .was pleased to open the poor blind eyes of myWife, so that she saw in Jesus Chriss just what lsaw. Now we became one of the happiest fami¬lies in all Hull.13«I put myself to school, that I mi^ht learn toread, and in a few months I was able to read nearlyas well as my little boy. I determined thM myhouse should be a bouse of prayer, and my dooropen to all who should chuse to come. I toldmy comrades that I had now begun to pray toGod, and read his wrord every morning and even¬ing, and that I should be glad of their company.Several attended to make sport ; when I could notmake out a long word then they all laughed ; butI thought, now' a few months ago I should havelaughed at these things as well as they ; but ifGod opens their eyes as he has mine, they willlaugh no more at such things. I read on as 'yellas 1 was able. By-and by some of them becamevery serious, but drink and wicked company didthem much injury. One of them, however, re¬mains very stedfast to this day.’Mr. H had intimated after his sermon, thatI should preach at tjie same place next morning,precisely at nine o’clock. This, unknown to us,was the place and hour of parade every morning.At the officers’ mess in the evening, a waiter whit*pered to one of the officers at table, that there wasto be a Servian on the parade ground next morn¬ing, and a congrtgation to hear the sermon. Ithink, saief the officer, we shall hnvp no par .de,but shall go with our men and hear the scimo.; jwhich they did accordingly.It is probably that ill this coumenat'ce given tothe prg^ebing of the Gospel, proceeded from theprudent conduct of the pious 1'truinmer. Muchof rh<* privyfe~'opposifibn made to the Go-pel hasarisen from the imprudent conduct of some of itsprofessors.!GThe hjetory of this Drunimet can hardly be readwithout interest, at the same time it may be readwithout accomplishing the design of its publica¬tion. If it does not produce a desire to obtain abetter acquaintance with God, and the way of sal¬vation, by means of the Scriptures of truth, ithas been of little service to the reader.It was well for the Drummer that he followedthe advice of the minister : many would have ex¬cused themselves by saying, they could not read,and therefore a Bible would be useless to them ;but the Drummer was in earnest about the matter,he could not have peace of mind till he heardwhat God had made known in the Holy Scrip¬tures. Had he not had a child of his own whocould read, he would probably have hired thechild of some other person to read for him. Whenpeople are in earnest about a thing, it is wonder¬ful what difficulties they will overcome in orderto acquire it: like a person having property left bya deceased friend, should the will happen to be inLatin, which he could not read, would he no soonfind ways and means to obtain a translation, thathe might know the nature and extent of the pro¬perty left him ? undoubtedly he would.Now the glorious Gospel of the blessed Godcontains a revelation of his love and mercy to theworld—of a full and free salvation from sin andmisery to glory and happiness for ever, throughJesus the only begotten Son of God, and an assu¬rance that God was in Christ, reconciling theworld unto himself, not imputing to men theirtrespasses. AJ1 this, and the evidence of its truth,is exhibited in the Scriptures, in the most plain,full, and satisfactory manner, and every one is cal-led upon to search and see this salvation of God;jput the man who neglects the means within hisreach, for obtaining acquaintance with so greatsalvation, is considered by God as despising hisgrace, and shall be miserable for ever.Though the Drummer was no coward, yetwhen he knew his danger as a sinner againstGod, he was greatly alarmed, and had no peaceuntil he obtained some hope of mercy throughJesus Christ. A braver man David, king ofIsrael, never breathed; many successful battlesdid he fight at the head of his armies, but.hetrembled at sin as an offence against the infiniteMajesty of Heaven; he knew well it was adreadful thing to fall into the hands of an angryGod.Friendly reader, have you seen your danger asa guilty creature ?-*-If you have, lose no time incoming to God through Jesus Christ for mercy,for—Now is the accepted time, now is the dayof salvation ; to-morrow it may be gone for ever !Therefore seek the Lord while he may be found,call upon him while he is near ; make mentionof the righteousness of Jesus, and of his only, inall your approaches to a holy, heart-searching andrighteous God.THE1r {, '■ f:,HISTORT AND ADVENTURES, " OF'BEN THE SOLDIER.TN a pleasant village, about K)0 miles fromLondon, situated on the banks of a smallriver, and at the bottom of a high hill, ^weft anhonest hard-working old couple, named Timothyand Deborah Clay. Timothy was a ploughman,and worked for farmer Hay field; and Dekoiahused to weed in the fields, and do other jobs, butwas now past hard labour, and employed herselfin spinning worsted, and. knitting stockings forher husband and grapdson. They had only oned?a»ghter, who died when Benjamin, her child,was an infant, as did her husband soon after¬wards of a violent fever ; upon which the oldcouple took the little orphan, and brought himup with the greatest care and tenderness theywere capable of.As they had some difficulty to make both endsm,eet, they could not afford to send him to school,but pur him to work as soon as he was able to doany tiling, so th.u when he was nine years old,ire did not know a letter of the alphabet, and asthere was no church in the village, he knew no¬thing about God and his Son Jesus Christ, butwas as ignorant of ius Bible, as a heathen or ahottentor.About this time some good people hired aroom at old Dame Motlurley’s, and opened ^I19Sunday School, where they instructed the poorignorant children to read their Bibles, (and onThursday, evenings to write) and the young menwho attended it, Mr. Paul Christian, and Mr.Barnabas Lovesoul, took great care to catechizethem, and explain to them the meaning of whatthey read. To this school was Benjamin regu¬larly sent.When he was thirteen years of age, his grand¬mother died, and his grandfather departed thislife the year following. Farmer Hay field’s leaseexpired at the same time,- and Mr. NabalSqueczepoor, a rich overgrown farmer, took thefarm., Mr. Squeezepoor, whose name expressedhis nature, would not give Ben sufficient wagesto keep soul and body together, so that the poorboy was obliged to leave his service, and seek fora better master.Benjamin remembered he had read in his Bibleat the Sunday School ‘ that God provideth foodfor the ravens,’ and says, “ Call upon me in theday of trout1,, I will deliver thee, and thou shaltglorify me;’ he therefore fell'down upon hisknees, and prayed t >‘ G for Jesus Christ’ssake, not to let hime starve ; but to provide forhim in some way or other. The Bible speaks ofGod as a God hearing and answering prayer, aridBen found him to be so, for. God provided forhim by means of Mr. Christum, who recommend¬ed him to Mr. Lancet, an eminent apothecaryat Wc'!gley, a market town about 1 1 miles off,who wanted a stout active lad to carry out hismedicines : at the same time earnestiy exhortinghim to keep the hiabbath day holy, to study his.Bible, to pray to God regularly and fervently,and to avoid loose and idle company.20He acquitted! himself in his new place highlyto the satisfaction of his employer, and attendedpublic worship as often as he had opportunity.But alas ! for poor Ben, Dr. Lancet was littlebetter than an infidel, and cared neither for hisown soul, nor for the souls ef his servants. Themaids in the kitchen, and the young men in theshop, were perpetually sneering at him as a Me¬thodist, so that between the one and the other,he had but a sorry life of it. The clergyman ofthe parish, however, observing he was a serioussteady boy, took notice of him, and frequentlygave him good advice, and put some religiousbooks and tracts into his hands.In this way he went on for more than ninemonths. If he had lived in a better family, per¬haps he might have been a truly pious youth,and if it had not been for the kind care of theminister, and his old school-masters, he had pro¬bably been led away from every thing that isgood. It is a great blessing indeed for a youngperson to live in a holy Christian family.One afternoon, Bob Buck, Dr. Lancet’s ap¬prentice, and Fuddle, the shopman, prevailedupon Benjamin to go with them to a neighbour¬ing fair, determined, as he was a sober morallad, to make him drunk ; and as he was not usedto liquor, a small quantity overcame him : whilethey continued plying him with more, till he wasquite intoxicated. lu this situation a recruitingsergeant got hold of him, slipped a shilling intohis hand, and enlisted him.The next morning Ben found himself muchindisposed in body, and still more so in mind.His reflections were of the most painful sorf—21‘ Alas ! (exclaimed he) what have I done ! Ihave committed the worse than beastly sin ofdrunkenness, and sold my liberty. Ah ! howoften has my dear Mr. Christian, and Mr. Love-soul cautioned me against fairs and such wickedplaces, and to beware of bad company. A sinis soon committed, but I find by sad experiencethat the bitter effects of it are not soon over.—The pleasures of sin are short, but the punish¬ment of it is lasting. ‘ God be merciful to me avile sinner.’A day or two afterwards he was marched toLondon; and as he was an awkward clumsy lad,he could not easily acquire the air and gait of asoldier. Many a chuck under the chin did heget to make him hold his head up, and many aknock of the shins to make him turn his' toes out.He continued in England for about four years,during which time he experienced the truth ofthe apostle’s remark, ‘ Evil communications cor¬rupt good manners.’ By degrees he forgot thego&d things he had learned at the Sunday School,and at the church. His conscience, indeed wouldnot sutrer him to sw.iar, and sin so shamefully asmany of his comrades did, yet he was awfullyaltered for the worse. 1 hough not one of themost notorious sinners,' he was far from being aholy character, as every Christian should be,whatever station of life he may be in.He was then sent abroad to the continent tofight the French. The scenes of blood andslaughter which he saw, shocked him, and con¬science, which had been pretty quiet for sometime, now began to disturb him exceedingly;and a thousand times did he lament that he had22 ' ' |into temptation, ‘ and > thereby fallen intoevil.’THey.lay under arms during the whole of onenight, expecting to "be attacked every minute.Jden was much alarmed and distressed, for hefeared, lest in case of his being killed, that holyGod, against whom he had sinned, would assured¬ly cast him into hell. He mentioned his appre¬hensions to a ‘serious elderly man who was nextto him. who replied, < You see, young man, thata guilty conscience makes a coward. Manypeople make shift to live without religion, butit is hard to die without itj’ ; Religion, (ex--c'aimed a profane wretch with a sneer,) it’s all inmy eye.’ ‘ Fools make a meek at sin, (repliedthe old soldier;) you have imbibed the horridsentiments of lorn Paine.’ ‘Aye! (said theother.) and I am not to be hammed with yourcant.’ ‘ God be praised, (said Ben,) though lam a vile sinner, I am not an infidel.’ < But areyou a Christian ?’ replied the old soldier. ‘ Ihope I am,’ returned Ben. ‘ Have you reasonto believe that you are Washed in the blood ofChrist, and born again of the Holy Ghost ?’ en¬quired the pious veteran. Benjamin paused, andreplied with a trembling voice, ‘ i fear not.Would that I was.’ ‘ Ah ! young man, (said theold soldier,) what a melancholy thing it is whenpeople neglect religion, till danger and deathstare them in the face, it is dangerous trustingto a death-bed repentance, for those who live in ;sin' commonly die in sin. It is not enough to bSborn and biptized in a Christian country, muchmore is necessary. Jesus Christ died upon thecross to make atonement for sin, yet we shall%123not be saved unless we believe in him acccrJiiigto the Gospel. I have beer, a fciioyver cf.Chtistfor more than twenty years, ana I would notpart with mv hope for a thousand worlds. I am? not afraid o{ dying, tor l can say, “ O death 'where is thy sting? O graye ! where is thy■ victory?” ‘It is prpre than Joan,"(said Uen,)with a deep sigh.’ ‘People, /added the old sol¬dier,) have very low notions of Christianity.Christians are holy people, for God makes themso. 1'hey are dead to sin, and alive to God.Christ did not shed his precious blood that menmight live in sin, without fear of hell, but thathe might redeem them from all iniquity, andpurify to. himself a peculiar people, zealous ofgood works At this moment the French at¬tacked them ; about twenty of the English fellat the first fire, and a musket ball knocked offthe cap of the profane scoffer at religion.  Terrified, he exclaimed, ‘ Tiie f ord hjve mercyupon me ? if I am killed, I shall be damned j—Oh ! if I get out of the battle, alive, I will be aChristian.’ But, alas! God whom he had de¬spised, now despised him; at the next volleya*other bail went through his head, carryingaway his foreteeth, and the back part of his skull.(It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the1’ving God,) and another wounded Ben in theknee. The French, after some sharp fightingw’ere repulsed.In consequence of his wound, Ben received hisdischarge, and was sent back to England. Dur¬ing his confinement in the, hospital, he thoughtmuch of former times, and of the religious in¬structions he then received, and felt the ierpor-MBS -■**'w24tance of them ; and determined to give himseltiup to God, to serve him in holiness and righ-»teousness all the days of his life; trusting hisisoul to the Lord Jesus Christ, to save him frometernal misery. He was sensible that his owngoodness could not save him, and thereforeesteemed it a great mercy that God would savehim through the righteousness of Jesus Christ.When he arrived at Wedgley, the pious cler¬gyman, and his other friends were rejoiced tofind that God had dealt so graciously with him,and made him a Christian in reality, as well asin name. They got him the place of foreman to '^ a neighbouring farmer, who being frequentlytroubled with the rheumatism, could not alwayswork at his farm. Sally Rosebud, his prettycherry-cheeked daughter, soon conceived asneaking kindness for Benjamin, who thoughthe discovered in her every thing he could wishfor in woman. The good old farmer presentlyperceived it, and wisely considering that a pioushusband would make his pious daughter happierthan a rich one, cheerfully gave his consent, andBenjamin Gracious and Sally Rosebud weie ac¬cordingly married. Mrsa Gracious is just ie-covered from her first lying in, having producedher husband a fine chubby boy.FINIS,