PLEASING AND ENTERTAININGHISTORYi - 'i . ; iOFTHE FAMOUSMOLL FLANDERS :Who wa’s Eonv in Newgate^ and during & lift of cgh*tinned va»ietie», for three scone y* ar», was twelveyears a Whore, five ^hnes a Wife, (once to her ownBrother) twelve years a Thief, was eighteen time*in Bridewell, forty times in other Prisons, fifteentimes Whjpt at the Cart’s tail, foos times Butned inthe hand, once Condemned to Death, eight years'transported beyond Seas ; and, at last, grew' rich, ,lived honest.lv, ami died a Penitent,tEDINBURGH:I< ( j v . , . . » .Planted for the Booksetlors in Town and Country.■(Price One Penny.)HISTORYMOLL FLANDERS.MY Father was hanged for felony, and mvmother transportedforithesame^crime, after•she was delivered of me in Newgate. I was soonafrer taken away by some gypsies, who left me atColchester in Essex, where the magistrates putmi to a nurse, with whom I lived 13 years, whenI was fancied by a rich gentlewoman, for my nicen6edle i'ork. v, I lived hapjtily here some time, liltat length my lady's eldest son fell in Ibve with me ;he promised to marry me when lie came of age,and prevailed oh mein the mean time to surrendertny virginity. Scarcely a year had elapsed beforehis younger brother also fell in love with me, anddeclared openly his desire to marry me, and as myfirst lover had now grown indifferent, I resolved,with his consent, and although I was with child, tomarry his brother. The wedding was held pri¬vately ; and having contrived to get my new hus¬band very drunk before he came to bed, I easilypersuaded him I was a virgin. In two years after’he leaving two children, who were taken care5of br his parents. In a few months I married rDraper, who was soon obliged to fly to France fordebt; on which I took a lodging in the Mint, pre-terrdirg to be a widow, and assumed the name ofMrs Flanders. It was mf good fortune to marrya gentleman whose estates was in Virginia, andwith whoni Ftook a voyage thitfier, and was kindlyreceived bv fny husband’s mother ; but I foundout that our family was of Newgate extraction, sheshewing me where she WaS burned ih the hand.Here I lived about three vears, ami had one child,a boy ; but 1 grew tired of the place, and wishedto return to Fnglandv I told my husband's mo¬ther, who wassanxion^ tb know why"! w-asthem, that 1 was convinced ^ie!was my own mo¬ther, who was ddiveral me irn’iNewgates andtjiat my husband was my brother. I Was forced todisclose the matter to him, which so’grieved himthat he fell into a deep'melancholy. I embarkedfor England, after residing three years in Virginia,landed in Wales, and in rtine weeks I arrived mLondon. Some time after I was courted by agentleman who bad a wife disordered in her head.1 lived six years with him, and he was very liberalto me, till at length he fell sick; and on his reco¬very slighted me, through remorse of con-cienec.He gave me about \s€250, promised to take care ofa boy 1 had by him, and I gave him a general re¬lease, which put an end to this afiair. Jt was .notlong before 1 gat acquainted with a clerk belong¬ing to the bank, whose wife had made him a cuck-4promising on that account to procure a divorce;but while this was doing, I went down into I^anca-shire, and being imagined to be a fortune of5,0.00,1 quickly got married to an Irish gentle¬man, by a Catholic Clergyman; but he findingthat I had no such effects as I represented, nor heany estate more than what be had spent on hisequipage in courting me, he discharged me fromthe marriage, and lent me as much money as wouldbear my charge up to London. At London Ilodged at an old midwife’s, being now big withchild, where, as I had given directions, a letter wassent to me ojit of Lancashire, which had been di¬rected there from the clerk of the bank, who toldjne he had obtained a decree against his wife, andvas at my service. I returned an immediate an¬swer, under n cover., that I would be in town thelatter and of the year; and having disclosed thematter to the midwife, and being delivered of aiitie boy, which, with much difficulty, I allowedher to dispose of, I sent a letter to my clerk tomeet me at Duckbill, where, in a few days w'e were,anarried. I lived happily with him for five years,and had tw'o children, but being about that time-swindled out of all his property, lie took it so toheart, that he died of griefSoon after this, being reduced to very great ex¬tremity, I was tempted to steal asmnll bundle outof an apothecary’s shop in Leadenhall street, itiwhich I found some money and other valuable ar¬ticles. I next inveigled a child ton little distancefrom honje, took a gold neckleco from it, and thenput tlie chiltl in the right road again- Anothertime, I took out of a shop at Stephney two ringsI *a diamond "and a plain one ; and afterwards stolea. silver tankard from an ale house, which I sold U*good advantage. I had now become acquaintedwith a regular gang of thieves, and committeslmany depredations along with them;; but at lengthtwo of them were apprehended, condemned* andone of them hanged—the other was transported.1 had the good fortune to escape, and my namesoon became famous among the thieves—>none wasso great as Moll Flanders. Soon after this affair,I stole a bundle of plate from a lady’s house thattook fire, ipul in the confusion got clear off. Be¬ing an excellent pick pocket as well as a strumpet,I took from a cwll> after I had made him drunk, hisgold watch and pocket book, and left him in asound sleep. One time, as 1 was going along thet street through 'Covent .Garden,- there was a cry ofstop thief, and I was seized and haughtily insultedby a silk mercer ami his servants, but the real thief{ being taken a few minutes after, I got Z,150 dam-I ages off the mercer. No person could lie morei dexterous than I at stealing gold watches from the1 ladies, either at park,, [playhouse, or church; ati gaming, too, I was very expert; 1 onetime clear-' ed 73 guineas in a night. At Ipswich I robbed a1. Dutchman of a portmanteau, by pretending to be[! his wife in an inn, and got a large quantity of goldand silver. I one time went into, a milliner’s shopin Cheapside, ,and pretended that l wanted to buyhalf a dozen of Holland shifts. She shewed me|r6sorwe, but I said they were too short, cnwhich she put on one of them over her dress, toconvince me it was long enough, when pretendingSo pull it dowti, I pinned it with two or three stoutpins to her pettioonts, and then taking up the restof the shifts, with a parcel of lace, I ran out ofthe shop. The Unfortunate milliner ran out to thestreet after me; crying stop thief, and pulling theshift up to throw it off, she fairly lifted up her pet¬ticoats, and exposed all she had to the people intlve street, whtf crowded round her, taking her foriby- vSoon after thN, happeniftg to steal sorne silkfrom a ihercerV^hOp,T was apprelfemled, commit¬ted to Newgate, tried, and received sentence ofdemh. This sentence was afterwards remitted,and I was ordered to be transported. I was put onl*orud a vessel Rlon<r with several other convicts,and who should happen to make one of the com¬pany but my Lancashire nusband, wjio bad takento the highway after we had separated; and thusbrought himself into mv own situation. I contriv-ed to get all my property, which was considerable;conveyed on board, and having purchased materialsfor the work of planting, we sailed from the Downson the loth of April, and arrived safely at Vir¬ginia, where 1 found my own son, and my brotherhi* father, whom I had made my husband twentyyears ago; but my mother had b< en dead sometime, having left a considerable plantation to mea matt woman, and so I got away; the poor minter lost about X^O,'and was bantered to Iter dimr An.w -7i a»U my hell's, I and my [.anca«hire husbandij moved with all our eliects inlo Maryland, as IfouUli not In'ar the sight of my child and my brother, who1 Irvctl at Virginia. We bought £0 acres of ground,ii! built a decent house thereon, and got two servants,ii an English woman and a negro man. I resolvedI to go back to Virginia and dUeoTer myself to myi brother. V’hen I iandetl, I wrote him a letter, ni-i! forming him of all particular ulfairs, which kttorM came into his son’s hand, who immediattlv visiunlil me, attended by two servant* on horseback. - Hitkissed me, saying, “ Dear mother, are you alivei and then fell a-weeping. He told,me that bis,fe¬ll ther was deranged, and that the plantation mv(j mother had left me was in his posgessipn ; foi dieE produce of it my son paid me J.. 100, and engagedto be my trustee. I presented him with a goldI watch, took my leave, and set sail .,for mv owaplantation, having previously tpld: i»y sen’that 1intended to marry a gentleman who' came with m*from England. 1 purchased at Virginia three sad¬dle horses, some hogs, two cows, dnd mu.ov otherarticles, and brought them with me in il,t- vessel.I arrived safely, and my husband was quite over-jayedat my good fortune: Id ting up hieliands.-h*cried, “ I married a wife in Lancashire tor a for¬tune, and I think she has at last proved a goodf )i tune.” We now resolved to reform our irve*,and spend the remainder of our days in repentancefor our crimes, by doing ail the good in oqr powerto t-hose who stood in need of assistance.Tbiis far bns Moll FlanJcrs related h«r owiihistory, in letters to her friends j accounts frontVirginia, several years afterwards, announced her. dea>tb, ami informed that she departed this life atrue penitent, after bequeathing much money for jcharitable purposes.A friend of Dean Swift one day sent him a tur¬bot as a present, by a servant, who had frequentlybeen on a similar errand, but who had never vet |received the most trifling mark of tile Dean’s <^e- ]nerosity. Having gained admission, he openedthe door of the study, and abruptly putting downthe fish, cried very rudely, “ Master has sent youa turbot.” “ Heyday [ young man,” said theDeaut, rising from his easy chair, “ Is that thewfiy you deliver your message? Let me teachyou better manners : sit down in my chair, v/e wiHdtaage situations, and I will shew you how to be¬have in future.” The boy sat down, and the Deanwent to the door, then came up to the table with arespectful pace, and making a low bow, said, “.Sir,my master presents his kind compliments, hopesyou art well, and requests yonr acceptance of asmall present.” “ Docs he,” replied the boy,(i return my best thenks to him, and there’s halt acibwn for yotntMbll.” The Dean thus surprisedhi to an act of gcoepoMty-, laughed' heartily, andgave the boy a crown'for his wit..Tf