”   NEW AND IMPROVENo. 92.fiTfrirnriaggaD SERIES. W  sITHE g: LIFE |OF $JOHN KNOX,|$THE CELEBRATED SCOTTISH REFORMER; ^CONTAININGAii Account of bis Early Education,HIS PERSECUTION BY THE ROMAN CATHOLICS,ANDHis efforts to Establish the Protestant Religion in Scotland.IGLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.John Knox, the celebrated Scottish Reformer, washorn at Haddington, in the year 1505. He was thedescendant of an ancient family, who possessed someproperty in Renfrewshire. Some writers have assertedthat his parents were in poor circumstances; but thishas not been established by facts, for they seem tohave been in a position to give him a liberal educa¬tion. At an early age he was sent to the grammarschool of Haddington, and after acquiring the princi¬ples of the Latin language there, he was removed tothe University of St. Andrews, where he prosecutedhis studies with great success, and was soon createdmaster of arts, and ordained a priest, before the timeprescribed by the rules of the church, although hehad no other interest than his own merit, or the re¬commendation of his teachers procured him. Thismust have taken place before the year 1530, whenhe was only twenty-five years of age. About thistime, his studies received a new direction which ef¬fected an entire change in his sentiments, and had avery important influence on his future life. By thewritings of the fathers of the Christian church, he wasled to the scriptures as the only pure fountain ofdivine truth, and renouncing scholastic theology, hewas led to a more comprehensive view of the systemof evangelical religion. He did not, however, professhimself a Protestant till the year 1542. Relinquish¬ing all thoughts of officiating in the Catholic Church,he left St. Andrews, and acted as tutor to the sons of4TUB LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.Huy;li Douglas of Langniddrle, and John Cockburnof Ormiston, whom he instructed in the principles ofthe Reformed religion, as well as the different branchesof ordinary education. He catechised them publicly,and regularly read and explained a chapter of thebible, so that not only the families who employedhim, but the people in the neighbourhood, had theadvantage of his instruction. He was not long suf¬fered to continue his lectures in this way, for CardinalBeatoun, and the clergy of the Romish Church,alarmed lest he should draw others after him, wereanxious to get rid of such an adversary, and employedevery means in their power to destroy him ; but inthe midst of his cruelties, the Cardinal himself wassuddenly cut oiF. A small but determined band,animated by a desire to deliver their country fromoppression, formed a conspiracy against his life, andon the 29th of May, 1546, seized St. Andrews Castle,in which he then resided, and put him to death.The death of Beatoun, however, did not free Knoxfrom persecution, for he was frequently obliged toconceal himself, and to fly from place to place, toavoid falling into the hands of his enemies. At last,wearied of persecution, he determined to leave Scot¬land and visit Germany; but the lairds of Langnid-drie and Ormiston prevailed on him to take refuge,along with their sons, in the castle of St. Andrews,which was still held by the conspirators. He ac¬cordingly entered the castle, and conducted the edu¬cation of his pupils in his usual way. In the chapelwithin the castle, he read to them his lectures onthe scriptures, and catechised them in the parishchurch.During the few months he preached at St. Andrews,his labours were so successful, that, besides those inthe castle, many of the inhabitants of the town re¬nounced Popery, professed the Protestant faith, andTllli I.IFK <jl'' JOHN KNOX.:>participated in the Lord’s Supper, which he adminis¬tered in the manner afterwards practised in the Re¬formed Church of Scotland.Towards the end of June, 1547, a French fleet,with a large body of land forces, appeared before St.Andrews, for the purpose of besieging the castle.Knox did not expect that the garrison would be ableto hold out, but he determined to share with bisbrethren the hazard of the siege. After a spiritedresistance, they surrendered on the 2-id of July, andKnox and his companions were conveyed on boardthe fleet, which in a few days sailed for France. Ontheir arrival there, they were confined in the galleys,and bound with chains. Knox’s health was verymuch impaired by the severity of his confinement, forin addition to the rigours of ordinary captivity, hewas treated with all the indignities ottered to heretics,and he was seized with a fever which threatened toclose his career. He however recovered, and in themonth of February, 1549, obtained his liberty, afteran imprisonment of nineteen months. He now re¬turned to England, where his reputation as a preacherwas well known, and soon after his arrival in London,the privy council ordered him to Berwick, where helaboured for two years, during which time manywere, though Ids instrumentality,converted from errorand ignorance. He spared neither time nor bodilystrength in instructing those to whom he was sent.While resident in Berwick, he formed an acquaintancewith Miss Marjory Bowes, a young lady, who after¬wards became his wife. In L551 he was removed toNewcastle, where in addition to his ordinary serviceson Sabbath, he preached regularly on the other daysof the week.In the beginning of April, 1553, he returned toLondon, and remained there till the death of EdwardVI., when, being apprehensive of the measures which<i THE LIFE uF JOHN KNOX.might be pursued by Queen Mary’s government, heretired to the north. In August following, he re¬sumed his labours, although his safety was daily be¬coming more precarious. By the end of November,Parliament had repealed all the laws in favour of theReformation, and restored the Roman Catholic reli¬gion, but liberty was allowed to such as pleased toobserve the Protestant worship, until the 20th ofDecember, after which they were to be exposed tothe pains decreed against heretics. Knox, however,could not prevail on himself to leave the kingdom,till he found that he could no longer elude the pur¬suit of his enemies, if he continued to preach in Eng¬land, so be set sail in a vessel which landed himsafely at Dieppe, on 28th January, 1554. About theend of February of that year, he set out from Dieppe,“ not knowing whither he went,” and, travellingthrough France, came to Switzerland, where he spentsome time in visiting the churches, and conferringwith the learned men in that country. Early in Mayfollowing, he returned to Dieppe to receive informa¬tion from England, and, shortly after, visited Geneva,where he became acquainted with the celebratedJohn Calvin, and formed that intimate friendshipwhich subsisted between them till the death of thelatter in 1564. While residing here, the EnglishChurch at Frankfort invited him to become theirpastor, a charge which he was .averse to undertake ;but, by the persuasion of Calvin, he was induced toaccept the call, and, repairing to Frankfort in Novem¬ber, he commenced his ministry with the unanimousconsent of the congregation. This situation, however,he did not long enjoy; for having refused to admini¬ster the sacrament according to the form prescribedby the English Liturgy, he was deprived of office,and, leaving Frankfort, he returned to Geneva. Inthe month of August, 1555, he came to Dieppe, and.TUE LIFE OF JiJHN KNOX./sailing troni that port, arrived in Scotland about thoend of harvest. After remaining some time with hisfriends in Berwick, he secretly visited Edinburgh, andas soon as his arrival was known, the Protestantsthere immediately repaired to attend his instructions.Among these was John Erskine of Dun, who pre¬vailed on Knox to accompany him to his family seatin Angus, where he preached every day for a month,—the principal persons in that neighbourhood attend¬ing his sermons.The dangers to which Knox and his friends wereaccustomed, taught them to conduct matters withsuch secresy, that he preached for a considerable timein various places, before the clergy knew that he wasin the kingdom. Concealment however was imprac¬ticable, for his audiences became so numerous thatthe friars flocked from all quarters to the bishops,instigating them to take speedy measures for checkingthe alarming effects of his preaching, and Knox wasconsequently summoned to appear before a conventionof the clergy at Edinburgh, on the 15th of May.This diet he determined to keep, and came to Edin¬burgh before the day appointed, accompanied byErskine of Dun, and several other gentlemen ; butthe clergy, who never thought he would have at¬tended, were afraid to bring matters to extremity,and under pretence of some informality in the sum¬mons, deserted the diet against him. The day onwhich Knox should have appeared as a pannel, hepreached to a larger audience than had ever attendedhim in Edinburgh.About this time, the Earl Marischal, at the desireof the Earl of Glencairn, attended one of Knox’sevening sermons, with which he was so much pleased,that he joined Glencairn in urging the preacher toaddress a letter to the Queen, which they thoughtmight have the effect of inclining her to give a8THU LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.favourable ear to their doctrine. Witlu this requestlie was induced to comply, and as a specimen of themanner in which this letter was written, we give thefollowing quotation : — “ Albeit, Madam, that themessengers of God are not sent this day with visiblemiracles, because they teach no other doctrine thanthat which is confirmed with miracles from the be¬ginning of the world, yet will not He (who hath pro¬mised to take charge over his poor and little flock tothe end,) suffer the contempt of their ambassage toescape punishment and vengeance, for the truth itselfhath said, ‘ he that heareth you heareth me, and hethat contemneth you contemneth me.’ I do notspeak unto you, Madam, as Pasquillus doth to thePope and his carnal cardinals, in the behalf of such asdare not utter their names, but I come in the nameof Christ Jesus; affirming, that the religion ye main¬tain is damnable idolatry, which I offer myself toprove, by the most evident testimony of God’sScriptures; and in this quarrel I present myselfagainst all the Papists in the realm, desiring no otherarmour but God’s holy word, and the liberty of mytongue.”About this time he received letters from the Englishcongregation at Geneva, stating that they had madechoice of him as one of their pastors, and urging him“ in God’s name to repair to them for their comfort.”He considered it his duty to accept this call, and ac¬cordingly, in the month of July 1556, he left Scot¬land, and, arriving at Dieppe, proceeded to Geneva.As soon as the clergy understood that he had left:he kingdom, they renewed the summons against him,and on his non-appearance, adjudged his body to theflames, and his soul to damnation. His person beingout of their reach, they burnt him in effigy at the crossof Edinburgh. Against this sentence, he publishedhis “Appellation,” in which he anneals to a “lawfulTHE LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.9i.'ind general council;” adding, “these tilings I requireof your honours to be granted unto me, viz., that thedoctrines which our adversaries condemn for heresymay be tried by the plain and simple word of God ;that the just defences be admitted to us that sustainthe battle against this pestilent battle of Antichrist;and that they be removed from judgment in our cause,seeing that our accusation is not intended against anyone particular person, but against that whole kingdomwhich we doubt not to prove to be a power usurpedagainst God, against his commandments, and againsttbe ordinance of Christ Jesus, established in his churchby his chief apostles; yea, we doubt not to provethe kingdom of the Pope to be the kingdom andpower of Antichrist, and therefore, my lords, I cannotcease, in the name of Christ Jesus, to require of youthat the matter may come to examination, and thatye, the estates of the realm, by your authority, com¬pel such as will be called bishops, not only to desistfrom their cruel murdering of such as do study topromote God’s glory, in detecting and disclosing thedamnable impiety of that man of sin the Roman An¬tichrist; but, also, that ye compel them to answer tosuch crimes as shall be laid to their charge, for notrighteously instructing the flock committed to theircare.”On the death of Mary, Queen of England, and theaccession of Elizabeth, the Protestantrefugeeshastenedto return to their native country, and Knox wrotesome of his former acquaintances, who wTere now inthe court of Elizabeth, requesting permission to travelthrough England on his wTay to Scotland ; but as hewas accused of disloyalty to the Queen, the govern¬ment would not allow him to pass through their do¬minions. This refusal touched his irritable temperto the quick; but there was another object whichgave him still more concern. In the course of his10THE LIFE OF JOHN' KNOX.journeys through France he discovered that a planwas projected by the princes of Lorrain, brothers ofthe queen regent of Scotland, to set up the claim ofthe young Queen of Scots to the crown of England;to attack Elizabeth, and wrest the sceptre from herhands as a bastard, and that they were to begin bysuppressing the Reformation. Knowing that the Scot¬tish reformers were unable to resist the power ofFrance, and that it was the interest as well as theduty of the English court to support them, Knox re¬solved to obtain an interview with some confidentialagent of the English Government. With this view,be wrote to Secretary Cecil; but despairing of thesuccess of his application, he sailed for Scotland onthe 22d of April, and landed at Leith in the beginningof May. On bis arrival, he found matters in the mostcritical state. The Protestant leaders had frequentlysupplicated the Regent and the clergy, to use their in¬fluence in removing those corruptions in religion whichcould no longer be concealed, but without success.Theytherefore resolved to abolish Popish superstition,and set up the Protestant worship wherever their in¬fluence extended. St. Andrews was the place fixedon for the commencement of these operations, andsuch was the influence of the discourses delivered byKnox, that the inhabitants agreed to set up the re¬formed worship in the town: the church was strippedof its images, and the monasteries demolished. Thisexample was speedily followed in other places, andin a few weeks the houses of the monks were over¬thrown, and all the instruments which were employedto foster idolatry were destroyed. Knox continuedat St. Andrews till the end of June, when he returnedto Edinburgh, and the Protestants of that city havingchosen him for their minister, he entered upon thecharge ; but was soon obliged to relinquish it on ac¬count of the extreme hostility with which the PapistsTHE LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.11regarded him. He now undertook a journey throughScotland, and in less than two months he visited theprincipal towns, arousing the attention, and openingthe eyes of the inhabitants to the errors by whichthey were deluded. After completing this tour, hereturned to St. Andrews. Meantime it became evi¬dent, that they could not long maintain the strugglein which they were engaged. France had alreadysent, and was preparing to send more, troops to opposethem, and being unable to keep the field, they resolvedto divide, till they obtained the assistance promisedthem by Elizabeth,—one half of the council remainingat Glasgow, the other at St. Andrews. Knox wasappointed to attend the latter, and the French havingpenetrated into Fife early in the year 1560, he en¬couraged that small band which, under the Earl ofArran, resisted their progress, until the appearanceof the English fleet obliged them to retreat. In thebeginning of April, the English army entered Scot¬land, and the French troops having retired within thefortifications at Leith, were invested by sea and land.The Queen-regent died in Edinburgh Castle duringthe siege, and the ambassadors of France were obligedto agree to a treaty, which provided that the Frenchtroops should be immediately removed from Scotland,and that an amnesty be granted to all who had beenengaged in resisting the measures of the Regent. Thistreaty, which obviated hostilities, left the powerin the hands of the Protestants, and put an end tothe Roman Catholic religion in Scotland. After theproclamation of peace, Knox resumed his station asminister of Edinburgh, and employed himself in com¬posing the Confession of Faith. About this time theProtestant nobility invited their young Queen to as¬sume the reins of government, and on the 19th ofAugust, 1561, she arrived in Scotland. Educatedin the Roman Catholic religion, she determined to12THE LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.give her subjects an early proof of her attachment toit. Mary gave instructions to celebrate mass in thechapel of Holyrood, on the first Sunday after her ar¬rival. The Protestants were struck with horror whenthey found it was countenanced by the Queen, andthe more zealous of them would have prevented theservice by force, had not the leaders interfered. Knox,from regard to the public peace, used his influence toallay the tumult, but he was not less alarmed thanhis brethren, for in his sermon on the following Sab¬bath, he said, that “one mass is more fearful to me,than if ten thousand armed enemies were landed inany part of the realm, of purpose to suppress thewhole religion.” Soon after this he was sent for bythe Queen, who accused him of raising her subjectsagak 'ot her mother and herself, of writing against herauthority, and being the cause of sedition and blood¬shed To these charges Knox replied, “ If to teachtiie word of God in sincerity, if to rebuke idolatry,and to exhort a people to worship God according tohis word, be to raise subjects against their princes,then cannot I be excused; for it hath pleased God inhis mercy to make me one amongst many to discloseunto this realm the vanity of the Papistical religion.—And touching that book, that seemeth so highly tooffend your majesty, it is most certain that if I wroteit I am content that all the learned of the land shouldjudge of it. My hope is, that, so long as ye defilenot your hands with the blood of the saints of God,that neither I nor that book shall either hurt you oryour authority; for, in very deed, Madam, that bookwas written most especially against that wickedMary of England.’’ “Think you,” said the Queen,“ that subjects, having the power, may resist theirprinces?” lie answered they might, “if princes doexceed their bounds.” The Queen who had hithertomaintained her courage, was overpowered by thisTHE LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.13bold reply, and broke off the conversation. Soonafter, he was tried for treason at Edinburgh, but bisaccusers were unable to substantiate the charge, and,much to the Queen’s displeasure, he was acquitted.During the year 1564, the country continued quiet,but the same jealousies subsisted between the courtand the church. The Queen’s prejudices against theReformed religion were unabated, and she maintaineda correspondence with its enemies on the continent,which did not escape the vigilance of her Protestantsubjects. The preachers, however, did not relax intheir warnings against Popery.By appointment of the General Assembly in August,Knox visited the churches in Aberdeen and the north,where he remained some weeks. He had a similarappointment from the subsequent Assembly, to Perthand Fifeshire.In December 15G6, he requested permission fromthe General Assembly to visit England. It wasreadily granted, on condition that he would return bythe time of their next meeting in June. In the testi¬monial sent along with him, he was described as “ atrue and faithful minister, in doctrine pure and sincere,in life and conversation in our sight inculpable,” andone who “has so fruitfully used that talent grantedto him by the Eternal, to the advancement of theglory of his godly name, to the propagation of thekingdom of Jesus Christ, and edifying of them whoheard bis preaching, that of duty we most heartilypraise his godly name, for that so great a benefitgranted unto him for our utility and profit.”Before undertaking this journey, he had to performanother service to the church. The Queen havinggranted a commission to the Archbishop of St. An¬drews, restoring him to his ancient jurisdiction, whichhad been abolished by act of Parliament in 1560,Knox became alarmed, and be addressed a letter to14THE life OF JOHN KNOX.the principal Protestants in the kingdom, requestingtheir immediate advice on the means to be adoptedon the occasion. After referring to this daring mea¬sure, he says, “ How that any such assignation, orany promise made thereof, can stand in any stableassurance, when that Roman antichrist, by just laws, once banished from this realm, shall be intrustedi above us, we can no ways understand. Yea, farther,we cannot see what assurance can any within thisrealm, that hath professed the Lord Jesus, have oflife, or inheritance, if the head of that odious beastbe cured among us.” Having enforced, his request,he adds: “ as from the beginning we have neitherspared substance nor life, so mind we not to faint untothe end, to maintain the same, so long as we can findthe concurrence of brethren ; of whom (as God for¬bid), if we be destitute, yet are we determined neverto be subject to the Roman antichrist, neither yetto his usurped tyranny ; hut when we can do nofarther to suppress that odious beast, we mind toseal it with our blood to our posterity, that the brightknowledge of Jesus Christ hath banished that man ofsin, and his venomous doctrine, from our hearts andconsciences. Let this our letter and request bearwitness before God, before his church, before theworld, and before your own conscience.”It was during Knox’s residence in England thatthe tragedy was acted, which led to a revolution inthe government of the kingdom, and contrary to thedesigns of the actors, threw the power into the handsof the Protestants. Mary’s affection for Darnley,which cooled soon after their marriage, was convertedinto hatred after the assassination of Rizzio, and inproportion as her mind was alienated from the king,the Earl of Bothwell grew in favour, and was treatedby her Majesty with every mark of regard. Theunhappy king was decoyed to Edinburgh, lodged inTHE LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.15a solitary dwelling in the extremity of the city, andwas murdered on the 9th of February 1567, the househaving been blown up with gunpow'der. Bothwellwas the prime contriver in the murder, and that Marywas accessory to it, is evident from her behaviourtowards the king, her remissness in inquiring into themurder, and her marriage with the man who wasstigmatized as the murderer. The events which fol¬lowed this unlawful marriage; the confederation ofthe nobility for revenging the king’s death, and pre¬serving the infant prince ; the flight of Bothwell, theimprisonment of Mary; her resignation of the govern¬ment ; coronation of her son, and the appointment ofa regent during his minority, are well known. Knoxhad now reached that point from which he could takea calm view of the struggle in which he had been en¬gaged. True religion was nowT established, and hecherished the hope of retiring to that privacy fromwhich the Reformation had drawn him, but lie wasdestined to endure further trials. From the timethat the Earl of Murray was appointed regent, anumber of the nobility, headed by the house ofHamilton, stood aloof, and refused to acknowledgeany other than the Queen’s authority. After herescape from Lochleven Castle, they collected to herstandard, and avowed their design to restore her tothe throne, but the defeat at Langside broke up herparty ; Mary was driven from the kingdom, and therigorous measures of the Regent, restored a state ofobedience to the king’s authority. The partisans ofMary, desparing to accomplish their purpose duringthe Regent’s life, determined to cut him off, and em¬ployed two persons to assassinate him ; but theirdesign having been discovered, Hamilton of Bothwell-haugh undertook to carry it into execution, and, fol¬lowing the Regent in his progress through Glasgow,Stirling, and Linlithgow, found an opportunity in the16THE LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.last-mentioned place, and shot him through the body.The wound having proved mortal, the Regent diedon the same evening, and the melancholy intelligencewas conveyed to Edinburgh the following morning.It is impossible to describe the feelings of Knox onthe occasion. An intimate friendship had long sub¬sisted between them, and of all the Scottish nobility,he had the greatest confidence in Murray’s attachmentto religion. He looked upon his death as the greatestcalamity which could befal the nation, and in hissermon on the following day, he introduced the sub¬ject, saying, that God in his mercy raised up godlyrulers, and took them away in his displeasure. Hethus poured out the sorrows of his heart, “ 0 Lord,in what misery and confusion found he this realm !To what rest and quietness now by his labours sud¬denly he brought the same, all estates, but especiallythe poor commons, can witness. Thy image, O Lord,did so clearly shine in that personage, that the devil,and the wicked to whom he is prince, could not abideit; and so to punish our sins and our ingratitude(who did not rightly esteem so precious a gift), thouhast permitted him to fall, to our great grief, in thehands of cruel and traitorous murderers. He is atrest, 0 Lord : we are left in extreme misery.”Upon the Tuesday after, the Regent’s corpse wasconveyed from the palace of Holyrood, and interredin the Collegiate Church of St. Giles. Before thefuneral, Knox preached a sermon from these words,“ Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord,” andwhile he described the Regent’s virtues, and bewailedhis loss, upwards of three thousand persons were dis¬solved in tears. The grief caused by this event preyedupon his spirits and injured his health. He wasstruck with apoplexy, which affected bis speech to aconsiderable degree, but he gradually recovered, andwas soon able to preach. The confusion which heTHE LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.17had augured from the death of the Regent, soon brokeout, and spread civil discord through the nation. Theliamiltons raised the Queen’s standard; and Kir-caldy of Grange, governor of Edinburgh Castle, de¬clared himself on the same side. Knox, however, per¬sisted in warning his hearers from joining with thosewho sought to overthrow the king’s authority, and theReformed religion. At the meeting of the GeneralAssembly, in March 1571, he was charged with sedi¬tious railing against the Queen, and refusing to prayfor her welfare, but having successfully defended him¬self, his enemies accused him of inconsistency in writ¬ing against female government, and yet praying forElizabeth, and requesting her aid against his nativecountry. This accusation he also met and refuted,concluding thus : “ One thing, in the end, I may notpretermit, that is, to give him a lie in his throat, thateither dare, or will say, that ever I sought supportagainst my native country. What I have been to mycountry, albeit this unthankful age will not know,yet the ages to come will be compelled to bear witnessto the truth. And thus I cease, requiring of all menthat has to oppose any thing against me, that he willdo it so plainly as I make myself and all my doingsmanifest to the world; for to me it seems a thingmost unreasonable, that, in my decrepid age, I shallbe compelled to fight against shadows and houlets,that dare not abide the light.”Knox was now so debilitated in body, that he sel¬dom went out except on the Sabbath, and could thenonly preach part of the day. He gave up attendingthe church courts, and previous to the breaking outof the last disturbances, he took no part in public af¬fairs ; but whenever the welfare of the church wasthreatened, he forgot his infirmities and resolutions,and stood prepared to repel the attacks of his adver¬saries, whether open or clandestine. His situation inTHE LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.IKEdinburgh was very critical in the month of April,1571, when Grange received the Hamiltons and theirforces into the castle. Their inveteracy against himwas so great, that his house required to be watchedduring the night. He often received intimationsthreatening his life, and one evening he was fired atthrough the window, but he happened to be in adifferent part of the house from that in which heusually sat, otherwise the ball must have struck him.Alarmed by this circumstance, a number of his friendswaited on him, and renewed a request they formerlymade, that he would remove to a place where his lifewould be in greater safety; but he refused to listento them, under the impression that his enemies wishedto intimidate him to flight, that they might the moreeasily carry on their designs, and then accuse him ofcowardice. Being unable to persuade him by anyother means, they intimated their determination todefend him at the peril of their lives, and if blood wasshed in the quarrel, they would leave it on his head.On hearing this, he consented to leave the city, “ soreagainst his will," and, on the 5th of May, he leftEdinburgh for St. Andrews, where he remained tillthe month of August following. During his stay, hepublished a vindication of the Reformed religion, inreply to a letter written by Tyrie, a Scots Jesuit. Thework was sent .abroad as a farewell address to theworld, and a testimony to the truth which he so longtaught and defended. In concluding it he says:“ Call for me, deir brethren, that God, in his mercy,will pleas to put end to my long and paneful battell.For now being unable to fight, as God sumtymesgave strength, I thrist an end, befoir I be moir trou-blesum to the faithfull. And yet, Lord, let my de-syre be moderat be thy Holy Spirit. To thee, OLord, I commend my spirit. For I thrist to be re¬leased from this body of sin, and am assured that ITHE LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.19;all rise agane in glorie; howsoever it be that thejvicked for a tyme sail trode me and others thy ser-randes under their feit. Be merciful, O Lord, untohe kirk within this realme; continew with it theight of thy evangell; augment the number of trueireieheris. And let thy mercyfull providence hikeipon my desolate bedfellow, the fruit of hir bosome,tnd my two deir children, Nathaneal and Eleazer.Mow, Lord, put end to my miserie.” The advertise-nent “to the Faithful Reader,” dated from St.Andrews, 12th July, 1572, concludes as follows: “Iliartly salute and take my good night of all the faithfulin both realmes, earnestly desyring the assistance oftheir prayers, that, without any notable slander tothe evangel of Jesus Christ, I may end my battell.For as the world is wearie of me, so am I of it.”His health declined so rapidly in the Spring of1572, that it was thought he would end his days inSt. Andrews, but he was once more restored to his| flock. The Queen’s forces having abandoned Edin¬burgh, his hearers, who were anxious“that once againI his voice might be heard among them,” intreated himto come to them immediately, if his health permitted.He accordingly left St. Andrews on the 17th ofAugust, but on account of his weakness, he was obligedto travel slowly, and it was the 23d of the monthbefore he arrived at Leith. After resting a day ortwo, he came to Edinburgh, and the inhabitants hadthe satisfaction of seeing him in his own pulpit oncemore. His voice was now so enfeebled, that he couldscarcely be heard by half the congregation, and herequested the session to provide a smaller house wherehe could be heard, if it were only by a few. Per¬ceiving that he would not long be able to preach, orattend to other ministerial duties, he was desirous tohave an assistant and successor appointed, that hisfollowers might not be left “as sheep without a shop-V20 THE LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.herd,” when he was taken away. They accordinglyfixed on Janies Lawson, formerly of the college o;Aberdeen, and Knox urged him to comply with th<>call without delay. The invitation was acceptedLawson hastened to Edinburgh, and having preacherto the people, be gave universal satisfaction. OiSabbath, the Dth of November, Knox presided at theinstallation of his colleague, and having finished theservice and pronounced the blessing with a eheerfubut exhausted voice, he descended from the pulpit,and walked down the street, which was lined by theaudience, who followed him till he entered the houseOn the Tuesday following, he was seized with a severecough, which greatly affected his breathing, and hisfriends proposed to call in the physician, but althoughhe readily acquiesced, he was “persuaded that theLord would soon put an end to his troubles.” It washis daily custom to read some chapter of the Old andNew Testaments,-but on Thursday, the 13th, he be¬came so ill that he was obliged to desist. The scrip¬tures however were read to him during the wholetime of his illness. He was anxious once more tomeet with the session, and bid them farewell, and incompliance with his wish, his colleague, the eldersand deacons, with David Lindsay, one of the minis¬ters of Leith, assembled in his room on the 17th, whenhe addressed them as follows:—“ The day now ap¬proaches, and is before the door, for which I havefrequently and vehemently thirsted, when I shall bereleased from my great labours and innumerable sor¬rows, and shall be with Christ. And now, God ismy witness, whom I have served in spirit, in thegospel of his Son, that I have taught nothing but thetrue and solid doctrine of the gospel of the Son ofGod, and have had it for my only object, to instructthe ignorant, to confirm the faithful, to comfort theweak, the fearful, and the distressed, by the promisesTHE LIFE OF JOHN KHOX.21of grace, and to fight against the proud and rebellious,by the divine threatenings. I know that many havefrequently and loudly complained, and do yet com¬plain, of my too great severity; but God knows thatmy mind was always void of hatred to the persons ofthose against whom I thundered the severest judg¬ments. I cannot deny but that I felt the greatestabhorrence at the sins in which they indulged, but Istill kept this one thing in view, that if possibleI might gain them to the Lord. What influencedme to utter whatever the Lord put into my mouthso boldly, without respect of persons, was a reveren¬tial fear of my God, who called, and of his grace ap¬pointed, me to be a steward of divine mysteries, anda belief that he will demand an account of my dis¬charge of the trust committed unto me, when I shallstand before his tribunal. I profess, therefore, beforeGod, and before his holy angels, that I never mademerchandise of the sacred word of God, never studiedto please men, never indulged my own private pas¬sions or those of others, but faithfully distributed thetalent intrusted to me, for the edification of the churchover which I watched. Whatever obloquy wickedmen may cast on me respecting this point, I rejoicein the testimony of a good conscience. In the mean¬time, my dearest brethren, do you persevere in theeternal truth of the gospel; wait diligently on theflock over which the Lord hath set you, and whichhe redeemed with the blood of his only begot¬ten Son. And thou my brother, Lawson, fight thegood fight, and do the work of the Lord joyfully andresolutely. The Lord from on high bless you, andthe whole church of Edinburgh, against whom, aslong as they persevere in the word of truth whichthey have heard of me, the gates of hell shall notprevail.”He was much worse after this interview with the22THE LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.session, but lie continued to receive persons who cameto visit him, and allowed none to leave without ex¬hortations.On Friday he was much engaged in prayer, andoften repeated these words, “ Come, Lord Jesus.Sweet Jesus, into thy hands I commend my spirit.Be merciful. Lord, to thy church which thou hastredeemed, give peace to this afflicted commonwealth.Raise up faithful pastors who will take the charge ofthy church. Grant us, Lord, the perfect hatred of sin,both by the evidences of thy wrath and mercy. Lordgrant true pastors to thy church, that purity of doc¬trine my be retained. Restore peace again to thiscommonwealth, with godly rulers and magistrates.Once, Lord, make an end of my trouble.” In themidst of his meditations, he frequently addressedthose who stood by, in such sentences as the follow¬ing; “O serve the Lord in fear, and death shall notbe terrible to you. Nay, blessed shall death be tothose who have felt the power of the death of theonly begotten Son of God.”On Sabbath, the 23d, after lying a long time quiet,he exclaimed, “ If any be present, let him come andsee the work of Godand on their coming to hisbed-side, he said, “ I have been these two last nightsin meditation on the troubled state of the church ofGod, the spouse of Jesus Christ, despised of the world,but precious in the sight of God. I have called toGod for her, and have committed her to her head,Jesus Christ. I have fought against spiritual wicked¬ness in heavenly things, and have prevailed. I havebeen in heaven, and have possession. I have tastedof the heavenly joys, where presently I am.” In replyto a question asked by one of his friends if he feltmuch pain, he replied that “he was willing to liethere for years, if so God pleased, and if he continuedto shine upon his soul through Jesus Christ.” Mon-THE LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.23day, the 24th of November, was bis last day on earth.About 5 o’clock he said to his wife, “ Go read whereI cast my first anchorupon which she read to himthe 17th chapter of St. John. He afterwards fellinto a deep slumber, during which he uttered heavygroans, and on being asked the cause, replied, “ Ihave formerly, during my frail life, sustained manycontests, and many assaults of Satan; but at presentthat roaring lion hath assailed me most furiously, andput forth all his strength to devour, and make an endof me at once. Often before has he placed my sinsbefore my eyes, often tempted me to despair, often en¬deavoured to ensnare me by the allurements of theworld ; but with these weapons, broken by the swordof the Spirit, the word of God, he could not prevail.Now he has attacked me in another way ; the cun¬ning serpent has laboured to persuade me that I havemerited heaven and eternal blessedness, by the faith¬ful discharge of my ministry. But blessed be Godwho has enabled me to beat down and quench thisfiery dart, by suggesting to me such passages of Scrip¬ture as these: What hast thou that thou hast not re¬ceived ? By the grace of God I am what I am :Not I, but the grace of God in me. Being thus van¬quished, he left me. Wherefore I give thanks tomy God through Jesus Christ, who was pleased togive me the victory; and I am persuaded that thetempter shall not again attack me, but, within ashort time, I shall, without any great bodily pain, oranguish of mind, exchange this mortal and miserablelife for a blessed immortality through Jesus Christ.”He then lay quiet for sometime. About 10 o’clockthey read the evening prayer, which, thinking he wasasleep, they delayed beyond the usual time, and afterit was concluded. Dr. Preston asked him if he hadheard the prayers. “ Would to God,” he said, “ thatyou and all men had heard them, as 1 have heard24THE LIFE OF JOHN KNOX.them. 1 praise God for that heavenly sound.”Shortly after 11 o’clock, he said, “ Now it is come,”and, sighing twice, expired.This extraordinary man died in the sixty-seventhyear of his age; not so much oppressed witli years,as worn out by his labours of body, and anxiety ofmind. Very few men underwent so many hardships,or were exposed to more dangers, for, from the timehe embraced the Protestant religion, till his latesthour, he seldom enjoyed a respite, and he emergedfrom one difficulty, only to be plunged into another.Forced to fly from St. Andrews, to escape the perse¬cution of Cardinal Beatoun, he went to East Lothian;but his retreat having been discovered by ArchbishopHamilton, lie wandered as an outlaw for several yearsin daily apprehension of falling into the hands of thosewho sought his life. The few months’ protection heenjoyed in the castle of St. Andrews, were succeededby a long imprisonment, and, soon after his return toEngland, he was again driven into banishment towander as an exile on the Continent for five years.On his return to Scotland, he engaged in a struggleof the most perilous kind, and even after the Reform¬ation was established, he was continually involved ina contest with the court. No wonder, then, that hewas weary of the world, and anxious to be calledhence, to “ rest from his labours.” His funeral wasattended by the Earl of Morton, the nobility whowere at the time in the city, and a vast concourse ofpeople. When his body was laid in the grave, theRegent pronounced the following eulogium : “Therelies he who never feared the face of man, who hathbeen often threatened with dag and dagger, but yethath ended his days in peace and honour.”