IPROPHECIESO F1 Jioinas the Rhymer,THE ANCIENT SCOTCH PROPHET,[r ' .CONTAINING THE WONDERFUL FULFILMENTOF MANY OF HIS PREDICTIONS; AND THOSENOT YET ACCOMPLISHED.Collected, Examined, and now/PromulgatedBy Mr ALLAN BOYD, F. S. A.Sub-Deputy Janitor’s Clerk in the College of Hayti.WITH, SUBJOINED, AN ACCOUNT OFThe Battle of Bannockburn?so fatal to tyranny, and favourable toSCOTTISH INDEPENDENCE.And, IMPARTIALITY,A TURKISH TALE.SOLD WHOLESALE BY J. FRASER & CO.PRINTERS, STIRLING.Sir Thomas Learmant,ALIAS RYMER.'l.-1 THOMAS LEARMANT, commcaily' ^ called Thomas Rymer, was born in the east:i corner of Fife, of a good family. His Prophe-(I cies have been more credited than any that wereever recorded in the Scots Chronicle, as theyi have been well attested, what of them is past,* and what they allude to, in this present century: and period, and of his dark sayings yet to come.He told many mystical prophecies anent all1 the Kings of Europe, and what fell out accord¬ing to his prediction, in this ancient kingdom ofScotland; what is past, present, and to come.This brief account is taken from the Recordsof Cryle, near which place he was born andbrought up.His father was said to be Laird of Ba’comie;a:>l the records of that family is extant in theRolls, fot their assisting at several councils forthe honour of Scotland. And Sir Thomas Ry.mer’s prophecies and sayings are still held inesteem.He lived in the reign of Alexander III. Kingof Scotlaodj^in the year one thousand, twohundred and forty-eight, much regarded, andknighted by that king that same year.The first of his prophecies ever taken to befaithfully observed, was, That there should bea storm on a certain day, that would surprise allScotland. Now, some gentlemen being with.him that day, they began to joke him, and said,Sir Thomas, you are now mistaken and we shallstay and see your mistake, as we have heard somuch of your prophecies. He told them tostay an hour longer, and they would see andbelieve. And in less time than the hour, an ex¬press arrived to Sir Thomas, from Edinburgh,of the death of Margaret, Queen to AlexanderIII. who died that day. Upon receiving thenews, Sir Thomas told them that this was thestorm, and it would give rise to greater commo¬tions in Scotland.After the death of Queen Margaret, the kingmarried Isabel, daughter to the Earl of Driux;and Sir Thomas told within a few months of anearthquake at Kinghorn that would make Scot¬land tremble. An express accordingly came toClyde to Sir Thomas, that the King had fallenfrom his horse at Kinghorn, and broke-his neck.After the death of Alexander, he left no heirsexcept a grandchild, Margaret, daughter to theKing of Norway, who also soon died; but a%'s5short time before Jier death, she was betrothedto Edward, King of England. After this therewere great commotions anent the succession tothe Crown of Scotland, which occasioned greatbloodshed, partiaularly betwixt Bruce and Bali-ol, which you have recorded in the Scottish his¬tories.The pride of Spain, and the deceitful conductof the Trench, as also concerning the Dutch, isall foretold —Likewise the Scots battles at Tor-wood, Bothwelbridge, Malplackie, Killicrankie,1 Sheriff-rnuir, Proud Preston, near Gladsmuir,{ Falkirk, Culioden, and the Camps in Moray-3 shire, and on the Windmill brae at Aberdeen,1 by Generaf Coup, and at Dunbar.In forty-five, eighty two and three,Sir Thomas’ Works doth certify.6THEPROPHECIESOFTHOMAS RYMER.to his prophetical sayings, they are hand tobe understood, because they are pointedout by the Coat of Arms which appertain to somany different kingdoms and persons. Yet we'may observe how he has pointed out plait.ly,many things which have come to pass in ourdays; such as the extirpation of the noble raceof the Stewarts, the revolution, SherifF-muir,where he says,'1 hat three Ships and a Shield,That day shall keep the field;And Le the Antelope’s build.These three ships and a shield, are in theDuke of Argyle’s arms.And even every particular of the rebellion in1745 and 46. When pointing at it, he saysA Chieftain tfnehosen,Shall choose forth himself,And rule the realm as his own.i.7iWhen speaking of King Charles, he calls him‘ A sly Ft>x-bird, who would turn to Christ withthe wvles of tods and foxes.’ Meaning hisswearing of the covenants.When speaking of the battle of Preston-pans,in the year 1745, he names the very two neigh¬bouring villages to the spotlof ground whereonit was fought, viz. Goyleford-green, andSeton,sayingj ‘ Between Seton and the sea, sorrowshould be wrought by the light of the moon.’—Which act really came to pass that morning thebattle of Prestonpans was fought. But how theLion was hurt at this time, and not perceived,is yet a mystery. Some are of opinion that itwas by taking away the power or superiorityfrom tire chiefs of the Highland Clans, so thatthey cannot raise men in such a short time asformerly.These are a few observations on things al¬ready come to pass; and as to what is yet tocome, there is some remark will yet happ'en,when the time draws nigh: Such as, ‘WhenTarbet’s Craigs are tumbled into the sea. Andthe next season or summer thereafter, great sor¬row and bloodshed happen to. this realm, thechief thereof especially, such as hading on sleds,and chopping off heads.’ This Tarbet standsnear the root of the river Clyde; but whether itsbeing tumbled into the sea shall happen by anearthquake, thunder, or by the hands of men k> aMystery unknown.There is also mention mad-e of a Lord with alucken or double hand, which certainly is of roy-8ai blood, and will breed great stir and confusionin Britain. This man is alive at this very presentage, and of the Stewarts’ race, now in Italy.There is plainly pointed out, that in his time, agreat battle should be seen in Fife.Where saddled horses should be seenTyed unto the trees green.Not only in Fife, but the four chief rivers ofthe realm, there should be a battle On each ofthem, that should make the rivers run with blood,viz. Tweed, Clyde, Forth, and Fay.Last of all, a bloody desperate battle in Nor¬thumberland, on the river Tyne. Also great ha-vock and slaughter about the broad walls ofBerwick. All these things are yet to come topass; and when the first appears, the rest willsoon follow after.PART II..When Hempe is come and also gone,Scotland and England shall be one.Henry, Edward, Mary, Philip, Elizabeth,VIII. VI. of Spain,Q. M’s Husb.H E M P E.Praised be God alone,For Hempb is come and gone,.9^ And left us olgl Albion,By peace join’d in one.The explication of the foregoing prophecyconcerning Hempe being come and also goneand leaving Scotland and England joined in oneis fulfilled in the late King William, who cameout of Holland, which, in old times, was vulgar-, ly called the Land of Hemp; and the joining ofthe two nations together, signifies the Union.These things were foretold by the two ScotsProphets, in the reign of King Arthur, First, bythe marvellous Merling, who is said to be got bya devil, who ravished a young woman* Ins mo¬ther, in a wood near Coldstream, in the south of. Scotland. Afterwards, to the same purpose,I these and many more strange things were fore¬told by Thorpas Lermont, vulgarly called Thom-1 as Rytner, because he spoke all his prophetical| sayings in rhyme, and so darkly that they couldit not be understood until they came to pass.But of all the Prophets that ever were inScotland, none of them attained to such credit,j!; because many of his predictions referred to ourown country, and were accomplished in the u;.vand present century.i6 By hard conflict) and by the chanceOf noble Fortune’s force,Thy hap and thy prosperityMay turn into worse.7 Tho’ wont to won, may be subdued.And come in under yekejStrangers may reign, and you destroy,What likes him by sword's stroke.S A foreign foe, whom neither thy forceNor manners do approve,Ydoe is to thee, by guile and slight,Will only win above.9 This mighty nation was to-fore.Invincible and stout,Will yield slowly to destiny.Great pity is but doubt.10 In former age the Scots renownDid flourish goodly gay;But yet, alas! will be overcomeWith a great-dark, decay.11 Then mark and see what is the causeOf this so wondrous fall!Contempt of faith, falsehood, deceit.The wrath of God withal.12 Unsatiable greed of worldly gain,Oppression, cries of poor;10THOMAS RYMER’sPROPHECIESIN VERSE.1 gCOTLAND be sad now and lamentFor honours thou hast lost.But yet rejoice, iti better times,Which will repay the cost.2 Tho’ unto thraldom you should beBrought by your enemies;You shall have freedom from them all,.And enjoy your liberties.3 The grave of the most noble PrinceTo all is great regret,The subject to law, who doth'leaveThe kingdom and estate.4 O anguish great! where every kitidAnd ages doth lament;Wh vn bitter death has ta’en away,Shall Scotland sore repent.5 hately a land of rich increase,A nation stout and true,Has lost their former dear estate,Which they did hold of due.‘ 912A perpetual and slanderous race.No justice put in ure.13 The haughty pride of mighty men.Of former vice chief cause,The nutriture of wickedness,An unjust match of laws.14 Therefore this cause the prophetsof long time did presage^And now has happen’d every pointInto your present age.Since fate is so, now Scotland learnIn patience to abide;Slanders, great fears, and sudden plagues,* And great dolours beside.16 For out of thee shall people rise,with divers happiness;And yet a pen can scarcely writeThy hurt, skaith, and distress.17 And j’^t beware thou not distrust,Altho’ o’erwhelm’d with grief.Thy stroke is not perpetual,For thou shalt find relief.18 I do suppose, altho’ too late.Old prophecies shall hold;Hope thou in God’s goodness evermore,And mercies manifold.IS19 For thou that now a patient is,And seemeth to be'bound;At liberty shall free be set,And with empire be crown’d.20 From high above shall grace come down,And thy state, Scotland, be,In latter ends, more prosperousThan former age did see.21 Old prophecies foretell to thee,A warlike heir he’s born, *Who shall recover new your right.Advance this kingdom’s horn.22 Then shall fair Scotland be advanc’dAbove her en’mies power;Her cruel foes shall be dispers'd,And scatter'd from her bower.25 Fair Scotia's en’mies may invade,But not escape a plague;With sword, and thirst, and tears, and pest,With fears, and such bke ague.21 And after enemies thrown down,And mastered in war,Then Scotland in peace and quietness,Pass joyful days for ever.But that the curious may be more, fully in¬formed concerning the aforesaid predictions,U’ith respect to thek being exactly fulfilled, theyare referred to the Scottish histories.mnANA C C O U N TOF THEBATTLE OF BANNOCKBURN.J^DWARD II. of England kept up the sameclaim upofi Scotland, which his father had ■begun; and after several unsuccessful attemptsto establish it, he resolved to make a great effortand with one blow reduce that turbulent nation,which h^d put so many signal affrpnts upon Insfather and himself.In the spring, 13I4-, he assembled the most inumerous army that had ever cTossed the bor¬ders, composed of different nations, and amount¬ing to above a hundred thousand effective men,beside a huge multitude of attendants, whocame along in hopes of sharing in the plunder c'-‘a conquered enemy. At the head of these he jmarched northward with an uncommon parade,and in full confidence of victory. \Robert Bruce, the son of that Robert Brucewho held a conference with Wallace upon thebanks of the Carron, and grandson to him whohad been competitor with Baliol, had, in 1S06,been crowned King of Scotland; and being in¬formed of Edward’s formidable preparations, heraised an army of thirty thousand of his subjects.15j. Jo oppose him. This armament bore but a smallproportion to that of Edward’s; but it was com¬posed of soldiers, who were hardened by longpractice of war, and who now carried upon thepoint of their sword, liberty and honour, and ev¬ery thing that was dear to them. With theseRobert took up his station in the neighbour-,hood of Stirling, and waited for Edward’s ar-| rival.The two armies came in sight of each other,in the month of June, and soon after, a bloodybattle was fought, in which the Scots obtained avictory, the most celebrated of any in the annatsof that kingdom. The procedure1 of this memo¬rable event was as follows:The English having marched from Edinburghto Falkirk in one day, and upon die morrow,setting out thence towards Stirling, encampedto the northward of Torwood. About TJpper-Bannock-burn, and backward upon the Muir ofMean, in the neighbourhood of the Roman. . Causeway, pieces of broken pots, and other ves¬sels have been found; and upon rocks near thesurface marks of lire have been discovered, whereit was supposed the soldiers had made readytheir provisions. Barbour, the author of King, Robert Bruce’s life, speaks as if their camp hadstretched so far northward as to occupy a parr ofcarse ground; and so vast a multitude mustdoubtless have covered a large tract of thecountry.The Scottish army was. posted about a mile‘ o the northward, upon several small eminences,'16south from the present village of Sf. Ninkns* 1Upon the summit of one of these eminences, now |called Brock’-s-Brae, is a stone sunk into theearth, with a round hole in it, near three inchesin diameter, and much the same in depth, inwhich, according to tradition. King Robert’sstandard was fixed, the roy^l tent having been e-rected near it. This stone is well known in that 1neighbou hood by the name of the Bcre-stoxe. IThe small river of Bannockburn, remarkable forits steep and rugged banks, ran in a narrow val¬ley between the two camps.The castle of Stirling was still in the hands ofthe English. Edward Bruce, the King*s brother,had, in the spring of the year, laid seige to it, butfound himself obliged to abandon the enterprise;only by a treaty between that Prince and Mou-bray the Governor, it was agreed, that, if thegarrison received no relief from England beforea year expired, they should surrender to theScots.The day preceding the battle, a strong bodyof cavalry, to the number of eight hundred, wasdetached from the English camp, under theconduct of Lord Clifford^ to the relief oi thatgarrison. These having marched through somehollow grounds, upon the edge of the Carse,had passed the Scots army before they were ob¬served. The King himself was the first thatperceived them, and desiring Thomas RandolphEarl of Murray, to lock towards the place wherethey were, told him, that a rose had fallen fromhis chaplet. Randolph considering this as a re-17proach, because he had the charge of that partthrough which the English had marched, imme¬diately set out after them with a party of fivehundred horse, and coming up with them in theplain where the smalt village of New-House now-stands, a sharp.action ensued,' in sight of botharmies, and of the garrison of Stirling. It wasfought with valour on both sides; and it was forsome time doubtful where victory should turn^; King Robert, attended by some cf his officers,beheld this rencounter from a rising ground,supposed to be the round hill, immediately uponthe w?st of St. Ninians, now called Cock-shoteI hill. James Douglas, perceiving the distress of!j Randolph, who was greatly inferior to the ene-i my in number, asked leave to go to his support.This King Robert at first refused, but afterwards> consented Douglas put his sbldiers in motion;i observing, however, as he was on the way, thatf the victory was upon the point of being wont without his assistance, he stopped short, that his1 friend might have the unrivalled glory of it.—1 The English were entirely defeated, and many ofI them slain; and Randolph returned to the campi. amidst acclamations of universal joy. To per¬petuate the memory of this victory, two stoneswere reared up in the field, and are still to bei seen there. They stand in a spot which haslately been enclosed for a garden, at the northend of the village of New-House, and about ai quarter of a mile from the Borough-Port of Stir-j ling- _This victory gave new spirits to the whole ar*rtvy, and made them so eager for the general en¬gagement, that the night, though among the:shortest of the year, seemed long to them. Atlength appeared the dawn of that important daywhich was to decide whether Scotland washenceforth to be an independent kingdom, orsubject to a foreign yoke. Early all was in mo¬tion in both armies; religious sentitnems weremingled with the military ardour of the Scots :a solemn mass, in the manner of those times,was said by the Abbot of Inchaffery, a monastryin Strathearn, who also administered the sacra--meat to the king, and the great officers abouthim, while inferior priests did the same to therest of the army. After this, they formed inorder of battle, in a track of ground called Ne¬ther Touchadam, which lies along the declivityof a gentle rising hill. This situation had beempreviously chosen, because of its advantages. U-pon the right they had a range of steep rooks,now called Murray’s Craig, and in their frontwere steep banks of the rivulet of Bannockburn.Not far behind them was a wood, some vesti¬ges of which still remain. Upon the left was amorass, now called Milton-bog, from irs vicinityto a small village of that name; much of thisbog is still undrained, and a part cf it is at pre¬sent a mill-dam. As it was then the middle of,summer, it was alpaost quite dry. But King Ro¬bert had recourse to a stratagem in order toprevent any attack from that quarter. He hadordered many ditches and pits to be dug in the |. morass, and stakes sharpened at both ends to bo19driven into tkeiu, and the whole to be covered o-rer again with green turf, so that the groundhad still the appearance of being firm. He aUi so caused crow-feet, or sharp-pointed irons tobe scattered throughout the morass; some ofwhich have been found there in the memory ofpeople still living; the same manoeuvres wereiihew.se carried on for a little way, along thefront of the left wing; for there the banks forabout two hundred yards, being flatter thanthey are any where else, it was the only placewhere the enemy could pass the river in anysort of order. By means of these artificial im¬provements, joined to the natural strength ofthe ground, the Scotch army stood as within ani entrenchment, and the invisible pits and ditchesi answered to the concealed batteries of modern| times.Amongst the other occurrences of this mem-j orable day, historians mention an incident of as singular nature. As the two armies were about* to engage, the Abbot of Inchaftery posting him-| seif before the Scots, with a crucifix in his hand,t they all fell dov/n upon their knees in act of de-f votion. The enemy, observing them in so un-H common a posture, concluded that they wereI flighted unto submission, and that," by kneeling< when they should be ready to fight, they meantI to surrender at discretion, and only begged theiri lives; but they were soon deceived, when they, saw them rise again, and stand to their arms witha .steady countenances.1 The English began the action by a brisk20charge upon the left wing of the Scots, com¬manded by Randolphj near the spot where thebridge is now thrown tfoer the river at the smallvillage of Chartershall. Hereabput was the on¬ly place where the river could be crossed in anyorder. A large body of cavalry advanced t&attack him in front, while another fetched acompass to fall upon his flank ond rear, but be-'fore they could come to a close engagement, theyfell into the snare that had been laid for them, tMany of their horses were soon disabled by thesharp irons rushing into their feet, others tumb- jled into the concealed pits, and coal'd not disen-'tangle themselves. Pieces of the harnessing,with bits of broken spears, and other armour,still continue to be dug up in the bog.In die beginning of the engagement, an i:t-cident happened, which though in itself of smallmoment, was rendered important by its cons^-!quances. • King Robert was mounted on horse-!back, carrying a battle-ax in his hand, and uponhis helmet ne wore a Iiigh turban, in the form ofa crown, by way of distinction. This, togetherwith his activity, rendered him very conspicuousjas he r9de before the lines. An English Knightnamed Bohun, who was ranked among thebravest in Edward’s army, came galloping furi¬ously up to him, in order to engage with him insingle combat, expecting by so eminent an act ofchivalry, at once to put an end to the contest andgain immortal renown to himself; but the en¬terprising champion having missed his blow,was immediately struck dead with the battle ax' j<nv-hich the King carried in his hand. This wasa sort of signal tor the charge. So bold an at¬tack upon their King, filled the Scots with sen¬timents of revenge; and the heroic achievementperformed by him before their eyes, raised theirspirits to the highest pitch; they rushed furious¬ly upon the enemy, who, having by this time; passed the river in great numbers, gave them ai warm reception.A singular occurrence, which some accounts,i represent as an accidental sally of patriotic en-; thusiasm, others as a premeditated stratagem of: King Robert, suddenly altered the face of af¬fairs, and contributed greatly to the victory. All!; the servants and attendants of the Scottish army,il who are said to have amounted to twenty thous-]i and, had baen ordered, before the battle, to re-ij tire behind Murray’s Craig, But having, during’ the engagement, arranged themselves in a mar-i: tial form, they marched to the tcp of the hill,: and displaying banners, moved towards the fieldt of battle with hideous shouts. The English per-; ceiving this motely crowd, ana taking them forf a fresh reinforcement advancing to support the'i Scots, were seized with so great a panic, thatthey began to give way in confusion. Buchanan1 says that the King of England was the first whoI fled; but in this he contradicts all other histori¬ans, who affirm that he was among the last inthe field. The Scots pursued; and great was theslaughter among the enemy, especially in pas-> sing the river, where they could keep no order,I because of the irregularity of the ground. King.<22Edward himself escaped with much difficult:being closely pursued above forty miles, by SljJames Douglas, with a party of light horse. Mlwas upon the point of being taken prisone:•tfhen he was received into the Castle of Dun¬bar by the Earl of March, who conveyed him tilEngland, by sea, in a fisher’s boat; his immensiarmy being entirely discomfited. The Scots loslonly four thousand men; while the loss of th<English amounted to above thirty thousand.Turkish Impartiality.sonA Grocer of the city of Smyrna had awho, with the help of the little learning thecountry could afford, rose to the post of Naib,or deputy to the Cady, or mayor of the city,and as such visited the markets, and inspectedthe weights and measures of all retail dealers.One day, while going his rounds, his fatherwas advised by the neighbours to remove hisv* eights, which they knew to be deficient. Thefeld cheat, depending on his relationship to the23ij inspector, laughed at their advice, and, at his1 shop door, calmly awaited his coming. ThefNaib, however, was well assured of the dis¬honesty and unfair dealirig of his father, andresolved to detect his viilany, and make an ex-iample of him. Accordingly, he stopt at thedoor, and coolly said to him, ‘ Good man,fetch out your weights, that we may examinethem. Instead of obeying, the grocer was de¬sirous to put it off with a laugh, but was soon'Cnvmced his son was serious, by hearing him>rder the officers to search his shop, and see-ng them, produce the instruments of hisraud, which, after an impartial examination,:»ere openly condemned and broken to pieces,idis shame and confusion, however, he hoped,vould plead with a son to excuse him all fur-her punishment of his crime; the Naib, how¬ever, sentenced him to a fine of fifty piastres,jnd to receive a bastinado of as many blowsn the soles of his feet. All this was execut-d upon the spot; after which, the Naib, leap-(ig from his horse, threw himself at his feet,.nd watering them with his tears, addressedam thus:—‘ Father, I have discharged my du-"ft0 my God, my sovereign, my country, anday station; permit me now, by my lespectanduibmission, to acquit the debt 1 owe a parent,-ustice is blind, it is the power of God onarth; it has no regard to father or son—God,nd our neighbour’s right, are above the ties ofLature. You had offended against the laws of‘astice, you deserved this punishment, you24<would in the end have received it from' someother. I am sorry it was your fate to receive itfrom me, my conscience would not suffer meto act otherwise—behave better for the future,and instead of blaming, pity my being reducedto so cruel a necessity.’ This done, he mount¬ed his horse again, and continued his journeyamid the acclamations and praises of the whole- city. Report of which being made to the Sub¬lime Porte, the Sultan advanced him fro the ?post of Cady; from which, by degrees, he roseto the dignity of Mufti, who is the head ofboth religion and law among the Turks. Wereour dealers with false'weights to be treated ac^cording to the Turkish law, the poor mightnot be so much imposed on as they are at pre¬sent..FINIS.