DESCRIPTIONOF THEfour Parts of the World,EUROPE, I AFRICA,| AMERICA.iVxth the feveral Kingdoms, &c. con-taiued therein.together with the Religion, Nature ofthe Air, boil, and different TrafSck ofeach Province or Kingdom.To which is added,in Introdndion for the more eafy un*derflanding the Form of the World.*. -A... vStirling, Printed by C. Randall yTHEINTRODUCTION.for the more eafy underftanding thJForm of the World.whole globe of the Earth is cocfidered as a body of land and wat^divided as follows, viz.Land into Continents, lilands, Peniilfulas, Iflhmufles, Promontories, Movsiltains—^-Water into Oceans, Seas/ GulpjjStreights, Lakes, and Rivers.i A Continent is a large piece ot dlland, comprehending rivers countri ikingdoms, and Rates, joining altogethfwithout an entire reparation of its pawby water,2. An iflaitd is a part of dry land qvironed round with water.3* A Peninfuia is a part of dry la[;every where endoled with water fajione neck adjoining the fame to the Coltinenti.34- An Ifthmus is that narrow neck ofland annexing the Peninfula to the Con-.tinent, by which people may enter intoone from the other.5. A Promontory is a high part ofland flret-hing out 'tfelf into the fsa, theextremity whereof is commonly termeda Gape'or Head-Land.6. A Mountain is a rifing part cf thedry land over topping the adjacent coun¬try t an d appearing the firft at a di fiance.n. The Ocean is a large rendezvous,or great collection of waters, environinga conhderable part of the Continent,8 The Sea is a fnaaller cotiedlion ofj waters, intermixed with iflaods, and en¬tirely or mealy environed with land.9. A Gulph is a part of the fea every-iwhere environed with laigd except one• paflage, whereby it communicates with: the neighbouring fea or main ocean.10. A Straight is a narrow paiTage,e whereby either joining a gulph co dieneighbouring fea or ocean- or one part; of the fea or ocean to another.11. A Lake is a i'maller colledti<m of<]eep {landing waters entirely farroundedwith land and having no vifible or imme¬diate communication with the fea.12, A River is a confiderable ilream offreih water iffuing out of one or variousfountains, and continually gliding alongin one or more channels, till it difgor-gethitfelf at lafl into the ocean.5EUROPE.Of EUROPE in General.ITT'UROPE, the lea ft of the four partsj-*^ of the vvorhi, yet not inferior to thereft in the generclity of the people, their■riches, worth and virtue ; and exceeds;them, if we confider the true religion;,it is laid to take its name from Europea,the daughter of Agenor, King of Phe-:r.icia, containing many flouriihing king¬doms. It is 2800 miles in length, 1200in breadth ; bounded on the Weft with.:the main ocean, on the Eaft with theiEgean fea, Pontus Euxinus, the fens ofIVioetu', and the river Tanias ; and from,the bay of Grauvicus, it is disjointed,from Afia. In the North it is boundedby the Hyperborean fea, and on theSouth with the Mediterranean, dividedin continents and illands, the continentsare all entire, and the illands difperfedin the Greek, Iconion, YEgeion, Adriatic,Mediterranean, Cretan and the Northernleas j divided chiefly into France, Spain,6Italy* the A’p% Germany, Brir^in, Bd«ginm, Denmark, Svveieland, Hungary^Sclavonia, Ruflia, Poland, D-;cia, andGreece, with the difperfed iflands. InEurope are divers tongues, fuch as Ladtl(which was the original) French, Italian&c. &a It has been twice famous fo»giving laws to ail the world, and at thisday, though the leaft of the four partiit excels in what may be called SolicGood.Gf SWEDEN.The air is cold, and the foil not veryfruitful; however, it abounds wich various forts of fifh, and feveral mines of tinobrafs, iron, and copper. The longefday here is fxteen hours and the Ihorredfix and a half. Its chief commodities art;metals, rx hides, Heins, furs, tallow, tarhoney, and oaks. Lutheranifm is thfeifablilhed religion.Of DENMARK.This kingdom lies north of England)the air is cold and mi fly, the foil is goodand affords plenty of corn and pafhirag:Its chief ccmmcaities are fiih particular¬ly herrings, furniture for Hups, armoirhidee, tallo^ hr, wainicot ccc. Longed.7day 17 hours an] a Ivvfand a inlf. Religion Lurheranirn'.Of NORWAY.The air is very cold and the fail labarren, that it is bat thinly inhabited!Its commodities are ftock fi h, whichthe poor people dry, and ufe in dead ofbread, rich furs, tram oil, pitch, madscables, deal boards, which they exchangefor corn, and other neceiTtnes of life.The longed day two months the dimteftfix hours and a half They are a har¬dy peonle, but very mean and ignorant;profeding Lutheranidn, but know littleof it.Of MUSCOVY, or RUSSI A.The dominions of Mufcovy or RuSiiare of very great extent, the people har¬dy and vigorous and hnce the Czar Petervery much pal idled The $ir very coldduring three quarters of the year an i thefhort dimmer is very hot. Tne fun doesnot fet i n the northern parts of this cou 1-try for near two months and the fhorteftday is nine hours and a half, Tne chiefcommodities are wax, honey, tallow oilcaviere flax, hemp, iron, fkiafc, <k.Zt Thegovernment abiol cte, and thl people f>8jgfioraiK th^t the} think the Czar knowsall thines. 'I’he religion is clirillianitv,but mixt with many Romuh fuperfU-tions.Of FRANCE.France, th.^ugh vincler ahlolnte government, and profeding the Romifh reli¬gion, is the rnofl ilouridling kingdom,in Europe. The air temperate, plea.Iant,and healthful ; the foil extraordinaryfruitful ; and the commodities fait fifli,corn, wine, pepper, fit ins, filk, &c.The days the fame length as in England.The language fo univetfaljy prevails,that it is ufed in moi't courts in Europe,.The manners of the people very polite,,ancl the lad century has produced pi anygreat men .of almoil ever y branch of po¬lite and ufeful learning.Of GERMANY.Germany is divided into three parts jthe North, Middle, and South, Thtair and fo:i differs according to its ftua-ticn. This empire comprehends 3c<dith-Tent Sovereignties, yet mod or all oth cm are fubjedl -to the Emperor of Cfermany.—Their language is-High DutchThe people are famous for fincenty i;tf.eir dealings, and much ingenuity inmechanical inventions.Of POLAND.The government of this country is anelective monarchy, and on that accountis often haniffed with civil wars and di-vifions. The air cold, but the foil fruit-fuj. Its commodities are wax, pitch*roan, ilax. butter, checfe, cornjfurs, &c. The days much the fame asin England, 1 he ellablillied religion isPopery, but all pthers are tolerated.^ Of SPAIN and PORTUGAL.The cliautes are very hot, particularlySpain, and the people lazy, proud, for-Uudt and much bigotted tr. their reli¬gion ; and very jealous of their wives,who ar^ given to'intrigues. The com¬modities are wine, fugar, rice, /ilk, flax,railins, almonds, oranges, &c. The loag-eu day fifteen hours three quarters, thefhortefl nine and a quarter.Of ITALY.This is the moil entertaining countryin the wcrld tor travellers, as it containsthe remains of the nraveft people thatever lived, viz. the Romans, The air is! pure, temperate, and healthful; the foil10exceeding fruitful; but the people fobroke vmh llavery, and harraflcd withthe tyrannies, iinpofltions, and’cpprtf-fions ot their priefls, that it is not culti-•vated in the belt manner Its commo¬dities are corn, wine, oil, rice, filks, vel¬vets, gold wire, armour, glaffes, &c.The people are ingenious, and excel inthe arts of flamary, architecture, mufic,anti pamcicg.Uf TURKEY in EUROPE.•This country comprehends Hungary,Greece, Little Tareary, and the Danubi-an picvinces. The air of thefe countriesis very ciflerent that of Greece pure antemperate, the others the contrary ; the)foil fruitful in corn, roots, and variouicj ts of fi uit. There are feveral mines ocopper, iron, quickfilver, antimeny anfait. Their religion in Hungary, is tiraof Rome ; in Greece, Little Tartary andthe Provinces, Mahomeufm. Conitanti-noph is the feat of the Grand Seignor.'Fto whom they are fubjecL11A S I A.Of ASIA in General.ASIA is larger chan Ewrops and A-frica, bound on the Weft by theMeaiterranean and f&gean fear, on theNorth by the Sythian oceanh on the Eaftby the Straights of Anniaa, and on theSouth by the Arabian Day or Red Sea,which, parts it from Africa. It takes itsname from Alia the daughter of Ocean,and Thetis the wife of Japerus and mo¬ther of Prompheus. This is the nobleftpart of the w.orkb and laid to containthe earthly paradife. Here the Lav/ was.given, and here our bltiTed Saviour per¬fected the Stupendous work of our Re¬demption. Hence fprung the noble Icien-ces chat the Greeks learned of the Heb¬rews, and ilouruhed under the monar¬chy of the Modes, Perhans, and Aity-riaus.Or T i I? T1 A P ^l l CxiK t Aiv s »The air is very diftcreut, by reafon ofits vaft extent liom North to houth. The\12longed day in the North is about twomonths, and the fhorted in the Southnine hours and three quarters. The peo:pie are rude and barbarous, their food ishorfe-fieih, and live in tents and opetfields. The religion is Paganifm in th;North, and Mahometifm in the SouthThey never fpeak to the Cham, who ian abiolute monarch, but on their kneewith their faces towards the ground ; hiiubjedls fi.ile him the Shadow of Goc^he locks upon himielf as the monarciof the whole world ; Every day after hhas dined, hecaufes a tuiiiipetto iouu4thereby giving leave to the Kings anrPrinces of the earth to go to dinner.—Their chief commodities are fable, maitins, lilk, camblets, llax^ mulk, cinn®men, and rhubarb.Of CHINA.This is thought to be the mod popmjcus country in the world ; toe air colbut temperate, and the foil fo very fruitifu), that they have two or three harveliin a year. The longed cay is fourteeihours ihree quarters, and the fhortelbten hours three quarters. It abound,in filv;r, diamonds, qiuckdlver, pared:■ilane, filks, cottons, &c, The people areingenious, and lovets of feienCe. TheCham of Tartary is the governor, andthe reiion is Idolatry;Or INDIA.This vaft country comprehends all be¬tween Perfia and China, viz. The Mo¬gul’s empire, and the two Peninfulas ofIndia, the one within, and the otherwithout the Ganges. The air rh theMogti ’s empire i* cold, and the foil bar¬ren, Theiredminodities are aloes, mulk,rhubarb, borex, lilk and co.ton, indigo,&c. The religion Paganifm, the go¬vernment arbitrary, and tlie Great Mo¬gul is heir to every man’s eitate, which,he difpofes of at his p!e ifure j tire thronehe lies upon is the richeft in the world.In the peninfula within the Ganges, theair is very hot, and the foil exceedingfruitiui : and the longett day is thirteenhours and a hair, and the ihorted elevenand a half. The chief conimoaieies aremetals, liik, cotton, pearls, drugs, dates,corahs, rice, ginger, cinnamon, pepper,calTia &c. The religion Manometilm, the: government various, and in lo ne parts< none at all—In the peainl'uia-, beyondHthe Ganges the air is more temperate andif poilible. the foil mofe fruitful. It a-bounds with gold mines, and great quarttities of precious (lopes, and is thoughtto be the land of Gphir, to which Solo¬mon fent his Ihips lor gold. The com¬modities and days are the iame as theother*Of PERSI A.The air is temperate in the North, butvery hot in the South; and the foil ge¬nerally fruitful The longed day fourteenhours and three quarters, and the -'hon¬ed 13 hours and a quarter Its commo¬dities burioufi ftlks, carpets, gold manu-fadlures, (kins, alabader, and all forts ofmetals. The people are civil to ilrangersluxuiious, extravagant in their ex peacesand much addicled to allrology. 1 ne t e-ligion Mahomeufm, and the govern¬ment abiok-te, being entirely fuhject towill of the Emperor, who is ddcd theSophia cf Pes ha.Of l UR KEY in ASIA.This vad extended body comprehendsNatolia, Arabia, Syria, Phoenicia, Palef-tme or Judea, and the Euphmian pro¬vinces. The religion of theie countries isgenerally Mahometifm but in fome partsthere are a.great many Chriftians andJews. Their governments are various,but all fubjedb to the Grand Seignor, thetyranny of whofe fway fbaifeourages in-duAry, that thofe Phccnicians, which ofold were fo famous for commerce, arenow become poor and defpicable ; andJudea, the land which for its fruitfulntfswas faid to flo w with milk and honey, isnow become a barren and uncultivatedplace.FRTCA is larger than Europe, butleis than Alia; is bounded on theEiA by the Reel lea, on the Weil by theAtlantic Ocean, on the North by theMediterranean fea, and on the flonth bythe iErhiopic ocean, and joins Afia byan lit inn us of lixty miles. Africa hasits name from Affro or Apher, defeendedfrom Abraham, and contains fix pnnei-A F R I c A.Of AI R1 CA in General.i6pal regions, viz. Barbary, Egypt, Numi*dia, Sarra, and the country of the Neg¬roes and the dominion of Bred or John,and is in form like a pyramid reverfed*It contanivS 1920 Italian mi’es, is verynarr ow, and by reafon of the torrid z onelies a great pare uninhabited It aboundswith little brooks, cedar, and ether treeshas Bore of delicate fruit, and io a land;not to be delpifed.Of EGYPT.The air is hot rind unwhokfome, thefoil as fertile as any in the world, oCca-fioned by the overflowing of the Nile ;but that it never rains here is a very vul¬gar error. Hie longeft day is fourteenhours and a half, the fhorteA ten and ahalf The commodities are lugar, flax,rice, &c. The Grand Seignor’s govern-nient, and the religion Mahometifm.Of BARB ARY.The air temperate and healthfu1, anclthe foil fruitful. Its commodities arehoney, wax oil, f’ugar, &c. Days neathe fame as Egypt. This country com-iprehends Morocco, Tunis, Algiers; allfubjedl to the Grandfefs Mahopaetifm.beignor, and pr'it-7 'Or BILDUtGEIUD and N\ARA.They are partly fu^j cl to the Vtirks,id partly to the Empervr o^' Morocco,he climate r ot very wh defome, antiic foil indifferent. Tije people lavagead ignorant an4 the little religion theyave is Mahonietifm Their fe v com-lodities are corn, cattle, dares, in/iigo.Of the Land of NEGROEo.The air is very warm, yet eileemed focal thy, that lick p rfons are broughthere to recover The loll rish, and fametarts overflowed by the Niger. Here isreal (lore of corn, cnttle, and'variouserbs ; alio elephants and other beatfs,toth wild and tame. The longeit day3 hours and a quarter, the fhorteft 11nd a quarter Its commodities ofirichjeathers, gums, amber, gold, redwood,ivit, and elephants teeth.Of GUINEA.| The air hot and unwholefome to flran-j;ers, the foil fruitful. It lias gold mines,jind rivers which afford pearl and goldliuft, and abounds with elephants. Long-lift day 12 hours and three quarters, fhor-:efl i c and three quarters. They are theblacked of all Negroes, and go moiUyi8quite They offer human facruc , thin!: GoH a good Being, and aicivil ro him ; but pray to and worfhithe Devil, becaufe he fliould not huthem.Of ETHTOPTA.It is divided into two parts, Intericand Exterior.—Interior, the air hot arfoil fruitf ul. T he longest day 13 houand a half, and the fhortefi: 10 andhalf. The people Jews, Pagans, Mah«metans and* Chriltians.-—“Exterior, tlair and foil various. Their commodties gold, fflver, pc».rl«, corn, fugar-can|&c. The people are barbarous and f|ivage, expoling human fleih for faie :common as beef and mutton. They a jcalled Hottentots, are the filthieft of acreatures, befmearing themfelves wiigrcaff, and themfelves with greafe, anthemfelves finely adorned with the gucf beads hanging about their neckThey are fubject to an Emperor calkPreltor John, whofe dominions are <great extent.Ir9AMERICAOf AMERICA in General.MERICA is the South diviiioh ofthe world, and takes its name fromone Americus Vefpuous, an adventurousFiorentirte wmo not many centuries agofird difeovered it* and therefore by fomeit is called the New World. It is bound¬ed on the Ead by the Atlantic and Vir¬ginian feas, on the Wed by the Pacificocean, on the South by the fame divid¬ing it from Ada, and on the North itsbounds are not known. It is divided intoP nintulas, Mexico, and Peru, and thecircumference of the known part compu¬ted to be about 3000 miles. The Spani-iirds have often talked of cutting the Idh-mus here to make it join the Screight ofDarien, and fa fhorten the way to Chinaout have never put it into execution.' The air temperate and healthful be-ng refrellicd by cool breezes from thefea * tlie foil fertile, producing of cornjpomgranates, oranges, cherries, pears-apples, and plenty of herbs, roots, andplants; as alio mines of gold and iilver.The longed day 14 hours three quarter^the fhortefl; 13 and a half. The peoplecivil, and excel in printing and playingon mufical inftruments. The 5pani.il:[government, and a mixture of the Pag-:anifm and Chridian Religions,Of NEW MEXICO or GRANADA.iThis country is not fully difcoveredthe air temperate, though iiibjcd: to cerrible tempeds ; the foil dry and barret!Cattle is the only trading commodityThe natives have captains of their ownbvtthe Spaniards redding there are. lub ‘jedl to their King ; together with fomfew cf the civilized natives. Their redgion is Pacanifm, but very few have an;notion ef religion at all.Of FLORIDA.The climate here is lo temperate, tha,the inhabitants live to a great age; th •ioilvery fruitful, producing corn, herb1fruit, gold and diver mines; and thllivers vad quantities of pearls. Longe:1clay 14 hours and a quarter, Ihorted nir: 21Phc people naturally white, but they co-our themfelves fo as to appear olive co-our, and all naked, except a fmail piecefdeer Ikin round the middle.Of TERRA CANADENSIS.Confifts of feveral very lai;ge countries,hiefly belonging to the Englilh, fuch asJew England, New York, Margland,levr Jerfey, Penfylvania, Virginia, Ca-plina. See. The air of all thefe are tem¬perate and healthful, and the foil fruit-pi. The commodities fkins of almoft111 wild beafts, oil, cotton, indigo, gin-:er, tobacco, See. The longeft day 15:ours, and the fhorteft nine.Of TERRA ARACTICA.This comprehends Greenland, Spitz-urg, Nova'Zembla, Terra de Jeffe, Neworth Wales. Of thefe countries littlelore is known, than that they are veryold and barren, and afford very fewommodities.Of TERRA FIRMA.I The climate is hot, yet not unwhole-ime ; the foil fruitful producing muchorn and fruit. It abounds with precious:©nes, and mines of gold fiver, brafs,cc. Longeft day 12 hours and a halt, the22fhorteft 12 hours. The religion idolatrythe government the King of Spain.Of PERU.. This is the rlcheft of the Spanifli plarrations. The air in fome places very hoand in others very cold ; fo alibis tffoil various. Its commodities are go!and fdver, pearls, cotton, tobacco,meal, drugs, &c. The longefl day ihours and a quarter, the i'horteft tea ana half. This coiautfy was formerly giverned by Rings called Incas, but itnow almofl entirely fubject to the Kmof Spain. The natives worihip the fuimoon, flars, thunder, lightening, Stc.*3AHYMN,ON THECreation of the World.TC1 TERNAL Wifdotn. thee v/e praife,-*“J Vhce the Creation hagsWith thy loud name r ~cks, hills and Tea,and Heaven’s high palace rings.Downwards I turn my wondering eyes*on clouds and {terms below,Thofe under regions of the Ikiesthey numerous glories iiu.w.There like a trumpet loud and Hrong,thy thunder fh rites our coafts.While the red ligb hung waves along,the banners of thy hoitvNow to the earth I bend my fong,and caft my eyes abroad,Glancing the Britiih Illes along,feieft iiles confefs your God.f4Kow did his wond’rous lldll arrayyon fields in charming green,A thoufand herbs his art difplay,a thoufand flowers between.His glores blaze all nature round,and ftrike the gazing fight,Thro* fkies and feas, and folid ground,with terror and delight,Infinite flrength and equal fkillfliine thro’the world abroad,Our fouls with vafl: amazement fill,and fpeak the builder GOD.FINIS.