I No, XV. Price One Priinif.[' • MEMOIRS OFMirHarriet iJVeweiL’.Z- '' A SELECTION OFAMUSING AND INSTRUCTIVEFAMFH.LKT8;cnjirRlsiNra|: tiVES of great warriors k sTatRsmek,■; BaTTLBS OH B£;:\ Si T.ANB,HISTORIES of DIFFERENT COUNTRIES.'ACCOUNTS OF ir.OXDRItFI/L KFflXTS, SlNGULAlta CHARACTERS, and NOTORIOUS OFFF.NDEKSUSEFUL FAMILY RKCKII’TS, CO'JKKKY, SfC. &C#I "~Rf>!Nl!tsROTl: "r . FRTKtF.lF. FOR-tHF IWbtSSl.J.rR*;'*1.1 • I ..’A Ip V'.tf JiltBy R. Afforrfirc. Lrith.y<r^0NAL{ ^ OF SCOTlAWI)Mem®its of Jflrs WewelL1 jPhk subject of these Memoirs, was a daughter ofMr Mosks Axwoop, merchant of Haverhill, Mas-snehusetts, N"orth America, was born October i().i795J.. She wks naturalfy cheerful and unreserved ;possessed a fivfely imagirlation and great sensibility ,and e<U'iy discovered a retentive memory and a tastefor reatiing. She hfahifested no "peculiar and lasting seriou.'Ugss beibre the, yivar ISyG. In the sum¬mer of that year, she first bdeamb the subject othose deep religious impressions Hhieli hurl thedotmilation (*!' her Christian is'e. With several of Lt d' companions hi study,1* &he whs ivUsOd to'tit tend Itthe one thing YsceHfoI. 'iTky turftAPofF their eye:irotn behohlmg Vanity, and cmjdnjcd-their leisirhin searehing the Scriptures, and listening to the in¬structions. of those who were able to uirect them itthe way of life. A few extracts from letter* which3?He w-rnle, will, in some measure, show t!ie' stflfle ofher mind at that time.1806.—I should he willing to leave every thingfor God ; willing to be called by any name whichtongue can utter, and to undergo any sufferings, ifit would but make me humble, and he for his glory.I care not for myself. Though he lay ever so 'miiehupon me, I would he content. Oh, could Hhu re¬call this summev !—But it is past, never to refurn.1 have one constant companion, the Btiji.K, fromwinch I derive the greatest comfort. This! miendfor the future shall guide me. -£>i’d you everread D ddridge’s Sermons'to Yotijig People'? Theyare very beautiful serulons. It appears Str^hge tome, why I am not more interested in the catjsV ofChrist, when he has done so much for n')e., Hut Iwill form a resolution that I will give myself upentirely to him-, ' ' ' T * •'■■■■>In'-another letter to the same friend, sHe^ays—“ What did Paul and Silas say to the jailor? * Re¬lieve in the Lord JcSui Chrixt, and thou .shaftsaved. Let us do the same. Let us improve Chp-accepted lime, and make our peace with God. Thisday, my L. I have formed a resolution, that I Hvjildevote the remainder of my life enfirciy tp the stf-vice of 'rtYy God.—Write to me. Tell me my nu¬merous oniaard faults!; though you know not thefaults of my heart, yet tell me all you know, fh'jf'lmay improve. I shall receive it as'a token of lovin'1’The Jollatelng Summary Account of her ReligiousExercises was found among ker private papers.Diauy.—A review of past religious experienceI have often found pitiful and encouraging. Onthis account I have written down tlie exercises ,Hfmy mind, hoping that, by frequently reading thfyq.I may He led to adore thericlK-s of lovcrylgn g-v-.x*,'4praise the Lorrl for his former kindness to me, tiedfeel encouraged to jrersevere in ajioly life.XUe fir't ten yea is of tsy life were spent in van-jty. I was entirely ignorant of the depravity of myheart. The summer that I entered my eleventhyear, I attended a dancing-school. My consciencewould soif.ctimcs:tell me that my time was fooji'tuJy spent; and though I never heard it intimatedthat such amusements were criminal, yet I ceiddnot rest until I had solemnly determined that, whenthe school closed, I would immediately become re¬ligious., But these resolutions wore not carried in¬to effect. Although 1 attended every day to secretprayer, and read the Bible with greater attentionthan before, yet I soon became weary of these; ch-ercises, and, by degrees, omitted enlitely the dutiesof the closet.When I entered mv thirteenth year, I was sentby my parents to the academy. A revival of reli¬gion commenced in, the neighbourhood, which, ina short time, spread into the schoo-h A large num¬ber of the young; ladies were anxiously inquiring■what they should do to inherit eternal life. I be¬gan to. inquire, what can these thing.mean ? Myattention was solemnly called to the concerns of myimmortal soul. I was a stranger to hope; and Ifeared ifw ridicule of my gay companions. Myheart was opposed to the character of God ; and £felt that, if I continued an enemy to his govern¬ment, I must eternally perish. My convictions ofsin were not so pungent and distressing, as manyhave had ; but they were of long continuance. Itwas more than three months before I was broughtto cast my soul on the Saviour sinners, and relyon him alone for salvation.The ecstacies which many new-born souls posseastore hot mine.' But if I was not lost in rapturesn •on reficilisig ujron what I find escnpe<!, I whs filledwith a sweet pence, a heavenly calirfhesS, which Inever can describe; The character Ad Jesus ap¬peared infinitely lovely, and I co.tllc! say with the‘Psalmist, W/iom have ! in fienven but ihtx? andthere is none nu earth 1 desire besides thee.Alas ! these seasons so precious did not Tong con¬tinue. Soon was I led to exclaifn,—Oh, that twere as in months pint ! My zeal for the cause ofreligion almost entirely abated ; while this vain,world engrossed my affections, v/hich had been con¬secrated to my Redeemer. My Bible,- once solovely, was entirely neglected. Novels and .ro¬mances engaged -my thought's, ahd hour after hourwas foolishly and sinfully spent in the perttsal ofthem The company of Christians became, by de¬grees, irksosne’and unpleasant. I endeavoured toshun them. The voice of conscience would fre¬quently whisper. •‘all/is not right.” Many asleepless night have I passed' after a day of vanityand sin. But such conflicts did not bring me hometc> the fold, from which, like a strayed lamb,- I badwandered far away. A religion, which was’ inti¬mately connected with the amusements of’th^ world,,am! the friendship of those who are at enmity withG<:d, would have suited well my depraved heart.But I knew thattiie religion of the gospel was vast¬ly different. It exalts the Creator, while it hum¬bles the creature in the dust.Such was «:y awful situation ! I lived only towound the cause of my ever blessed Saviour.Weep. O my soul, when contemplating and record¬ing these sins of mv youth ! Be astonished at thelong-sufi'ering of .Jehovtrh !-*—IJovv great a God isour God ! The death of a beloved parent, and un¬cle, had but little effect on my hard heart. Thoughthese -fHictiosjs moved my passions, they did notf>t<‘$d me la the Founlain of consolation. But God,who is rich in mercy, did Rut leave me here liehad prepared my heart to receive his grace ; andIk: glorified the riches of his mercy, by carrying ont!>e work. I was invited to visit a friend in New-buryport. The evening previous to my returnhome, 1 heard the Rev, Mr F. How did thetruths which he delivered sink deep into my inmostsoul ! My past tiansgressions rose like great moun¬tains before me. The most poignant anguish seiz¬ed my mind ; my carnal security fled ; and l feltmyself a guilty transgressor, naked before a holyGod, Never, no never, while memory retains herseat in my breast, shall I forget the affectionatemanner in which he addressed me. His conversa¬tion ha,d the desired effect.I then made the solemn resolution, as I trust, inthe strength of Jesus, that 1 would make a sincerededication of my ail to my, Creator, both for timeand eternity. This resolution produced a calm se¬renity and composure, to which I had long been astranger. How lovely tire way of salvation thenappealed,!—0b, how lovely, v.as the character ofthe Saviour ! The duty of professing publicly onwhich, side I was, now was impressed on my mind.1 came forward, and offered myself to the church;was accepted ; received into communion ; and com-wemoreiLed, for the first time, the dying love of theblessed Jesus, August fi, 1809. This was a pre¬cious seaspn, long to he remembered.—Ob, diedepths of sovereign grace ! Kteruity will be tooshort to celebrate the perfections of God.18Ofi. Sept 1.—A large number of my com-pjnions, of both sexes, with whom I have associatedthis summer, are in deep distress for their immor¬tal souls Many, who were loimc-rly gay anddpmigljtltss, arc now in tears, anxiously inquiring7What tiicy shc.'l do to be saved. Ob. bmr rich istbe merer of Jesus! He dispenses his favours to'shorn he pleases without regard to age or sex.Surely it is a wonderful display of the sovereigntyof.God. to make me a subject of his kingdom, whilemany of mv companions, far more amiable than Iam, are le't to grevel in the dust, or to mourn theirwretched condition, without, one gleam of hope.Oct- 10.—Ob, how much have I enjojed of Godthis day ! Such views of bis holy character, sucha desire to glorify his name, I never before expe¬rienced. Oh, that this frame might continue,i through life! This is mv birth-dav. ThirteenI1 years of my short life have.gone far ever.Ozt. 'ih—Permitted by my heavenly Father oncei more to hear the gospel’s joyful sound. I have en¬joyed greater happiness than tongue can describe.;( f have indeed been joyful in the house of prayer.I Lord let me dwell in thy presence for ever !Kerr. 4.—^Examination at the academy. ThoI young ladies to be separated, perhaps for life. Oh,how affecting the fcer.e ! I have bid my compan¬ions farewell. Though they are endeared to meby the strongest ties of affection, vet I must, be se~. parated from them, perhaps never to meet them| more til! the resurrec'ion. The season has beenI remarkable for religious imp-eaMons.. But the har¬vest is past, the Summer is ended, and there arenumbers who can say, be arc not aaved.Dec. 3.—I have had great discoveries of thowickedness of my heart these three days past. Buttins evening God lias graciously revealed himself tome in the beauty and glory of his character. TheSaviour provided for fallen mart is just such a onei as I need. lie is altogether lovely.Dec. 7-—With joy we welcome the morning of< i aootber Sabbath. Oh, let this Holy day Ire con**.rrafetl entirely to Gf>d. My Sabbaths on esrfhwvil soon be eiitleu ; but I look far ward' with joyimutterulfle tt> tljut holy day whicli will never hajieSB end.Jfardr 9.3*— [Iimtility has boen the subject oftny meditations this day. I find i have been gretitr]y -deficient in this Clirbtian grace. Or), for thatmeek and lowly spirit which Jest!? exhibited in thedays of his flesh.March 25.—-Little E.'s birth-day* Reading ofthose children who-cried Hosanna to the Son. ofDavid, when'he dwelt on earth, I ardently wishedthat this dear.chikl might be sanctified. She is nottoo young to be made a subject of Immanuel’skiegdom.May l,—»-Where- is the cross which Christiansspeak of so frequently'? • Ah that I do for Jesus ispleasant. Though, perhaps, I mn ridiculed by theguy and thoughtless for tay choicd of religion, yetthe in waul comfort which I enjoy, doubly compen¬sates me for ali this. I do not wish for the appro¬bation and love of the world, neither for its splen¬dour on riches. For one blest hour at God’s righthand, Fli give .them all away !1809. Jahj I.-—God has been pleased in his in¬finite wTercy, again to call op my attention to eter¬nal realities. After spending more than a ye»arinthe vanities of the worlds—thoughtless and uncon¬cerned respecting my eternal welfare, he has, as IliBWiSbly trust, showed me my awful backsliding^frhm him, and my dependence -ui)on his grace forevery blessitig.Aiiff- 6. l.ord's-tfnu moming.-—Upon this sacredmorning, Oh that the Holy Spirit of God wouldenliven and animate my cold and stupid affections. :Oh that I might, this day enter his earthly courts,WtMrship hint in an acceprabie inaiinep, profess hr*frnrrtf: hfTorfc a wovUl^.t.U <l«»wn at- Ills t.ilffe;an<] partake in fauiroi' the bo;ivand blood oS -lesus.Sabbath eve.—-And now I have entered into tin;most, solemn engagement to be the Lp£'s. I haveconfessed Christ before the world—I have renoun¬ced my wicked companions—d have solemnly pro-i mised, that denying ungodliness and every worldlylust. I will live soberly, righteously, and godly,.in: this present world, if I should, after taking these' solemn vows and covenant engagements upon me*dishonour the cause of my Redeemer ; if i shouldgive the enemies of religion reason to say, there isi nothing in religion ; if 1 should again return to myformer courses, Oh how dreadfully aggravated willbe my condemnation ! What excuse could I ren¬der at the tribunal of a just Judge ? My mouthwould be stopped, and I sh-ould plead guilty beforehim. How then does it become me to watch andpray, lest the devices of Satan, the world, of myown remaining corruption should lead me into temp¬tation !Get. 21.—This day God, in infinite mercy, liasseen fit to grant me, near access to his mercy seat.I have been enabled to call upon his name, mid toplead with him for his spiritual Jerusalem. Ohthat he would hear and accept my feeble petitions,and answer them for his own name's, sake !Feb. 25—With the light of this holy morning Idesire to offer to the kind Shepherd of Israel, whonever slumbers nor sleeps, a morning tribute ofthanksgiving and praise. Oh that mv whole toulmight be drawn out in love to God ; and ail my fa¬culties unite with the inhabitants of the New Jeru¬salem, in praising the immortal King, for what heha r done, and still doing for rebellious man*But I fall infinitify short of the honour due to hisglorious name. W hen sludi.I airive at the dtsiiu-10port of rest, rnui wHl» the hldod-wa.Ju d miiliorrsfiruhse the I.atnh ot‘ God lor redeeming love ? Has*ten, hlesseilimnenm!, that glorious period, whenail thy exilea children shall arrive at tJieir eternalhome !April 29.—A sudden death this week. Mrs C.was in health and prosperity one hour, and the Wf'.rit—'in the cold embraces of the universal conqueror !May tins solemn event be sane'’hi.cl to survivingfriends ! And may it lead me to place my aliec-tionr. tut the thitters of eternity !May 11.—Called upon a friend this morning1,who, to human appearance, is on the brink of theglare. She was speechless, though not senseless.Her very cmnttnance declared the importance ofreligion. Never shall I forget the affectionatemanner in which site prested my hand to her bo¬som, and lifted her eyes to heaven, as if callingdown a blessing upon me. Oh that I could rightlyimprove this affecting dispensation of Providence.1810. OcC 10.—This day entered upon myeighteenth year. Seventeen rears have rolled, al¬most insensiblv, away. I still remain a pilgrim inthis barren kind. Merciful Jesus, on the com.111 e 11 cement of this year, may thy supporting handW unden eath me, and if mv life is prolonged, mayit be more faithfully devoted to thee, and to thyblessed cause.OcU t<0.—A female friend called upon u.s thusmormnip. She informed me of her determinationoto quit her native land, to endure the sufferings ela Christian Missionary among heathen nations—toipend her days in India’s sultry clime. How didthis news affect my heart ! 1» she willing to doall this lor God ; and shall I refuse to lend tny lit¬tle aid, in a land where divine revelation has shedits clearest ravs? I have fe-U more for the galva-¥ <*■11tiom of llic heathen tiiijs day, than 1 recollect tohave felt through my whole past life.Oct, iil.—I have seen the glory of God in hissanctuary. 1‘ I had rather be a door.keeper in theI house of mv God, than to dwell in the tents of wick-e !ness. ’ The Lord is good ; may it be my delighuful employment on earth to praise him ; and inheaven may I join the enraptured millions in rfsong that shall never end.Od. id.—Mr M. introduced Mr N. to our fa-*-mily. He appears to be an engaged Christian/Expects to spend his life in preaching a Saviour tobenighted Pagans.Oct. 31.—'Mr N called on us this morning Hegave me some account of the dealings of God withhis sold. It' such a man, who has devoted himselfto the service of the gospel, has determined to la¬bour in the most difficult part of the vineyard, andis willing to renounce his earthly happiness for theinterest of religion ; if Ac doubts his possessing loveto God—what sliall I say of myself?1811. Feb. jib.—Mr H. and sister M. informedme that mv dear mamma wished me to engage in aschool the ensuing summer. Can I think of suchI a responsible situat on as that of instructing littleimmortals? 1 know that I ought not to com n’tmy own ease; the question should he, how can Ibe most' useful in the world ? I hope I shalll !xrdirected by heaven! Oh that God would use meas an instrument of promoting his glory ; whetherit be in the domestic circle, or in the arduous em¬ployment of “ teaching young ideas how to shoot.”April 17—How shall I record the events of thisday ! Keturned from Huston in the evening* afterspending three days very agreeably with my friendsC.and N. M. handed me a letter with ap appear¬ance which indicated that something unusual wasizcontained in it. I broke the seal, and what weremy emonons when I read the name of Newell. Thiswas not a long wishetl-lbr letter: no ; it was a longdreaded one, which I was conse’oits would involveme in doubt, anxiety, and distress. Nor were thecontents such, as 1 might answer at a distant }x>riod ; they recju'ncd an immediate answer.And now .vluit shall I say ? How shall I decidethis interesting, this important question ? Shall Iconsent to leave for ever ti e paretit of my youth,th?friends of my life, the scenes of my childhood,and my native country, and go to a land o\' stran¬gers^ not knowing the things which shall befallnle there ?” O for direction from heaven ! O for“ that wisdom which is profitable to direct !” Iwill go to (iod, and with an unprejudiced mind,will seek his guidance I will cast this heavy bur¬den on him, humbly trusting that he will sustainme and direct me in the path of duty.April 19-—The important decision is not yetmade. I am still wavering. I long to see andconverse with my dear mother. Never did I sogreathj long to visit the dear native dwelling,Perhaps my dear mother will immediately say, Har¬riet shall never go. Well, if this should be thecase, my duty will be plain. I cannot act contraryto the advice and express command of a pioits mo¬ther.Pier mother made no objection to her acceptingthe offer of Mr Newell, but cheerfully left her toact accoiding to her conviction of duty.1811. Ang. 7.—I have just laid down Horn onMissions. Ifow did his pious heart glow viiih be¬nevolence to his fellow creatures 1 How ardent didbe wish for the promulgation of the Gospel amongthe benighted Heathen ! I think, for a moment,I partake of his ardour, and long to bear that the1j standard of the cross is set up in the distant na-i tions of the earth.’ Providence now gives me an opportunity to go:! myself to the Heathen. Sliall I refuse tlie offer;| shall I love live glittering toys of this dying world| so well, that I cannot relinquish them lor God ?’ Forbid it, heaven ! Yes, I will go—however weakand unqualified I a;«', there is an all-sufficient SaJrviour ready to support me. In God alone is myI hope. I will trust his promises, and consider it one! of the highest privileges that can he conferred up- ■on me, to be permitted to engage irt his service, a-( inong the wretched inhabitants of Hindustan.Aug. 11 -—How reviving to my disconsolate mindI has been the word of life this day ! Oh, this ador-* able plan of salvation ! Have I the least inolina-. tion to alter one single part of if, if I could ? O no !It I rcoiild not be less holy—I would not wish God to;exact less perfect obedience front his creatures.Aug. 11.—1 his is indeed a wretched world.How tew the joys ! How many and various the; sorrows of life ! Well, if this world is unsatisfying,“ if cares and woes promiscuous grow,” how greatthe consolation that I shall soon leave it!Sept. 17 —How sweet is this text, “ Pe carefulif for nothing, but in every thing, by prayer and sup-jplication, let your requests he made known unto]'God.” When the difficulties of mv future life de-tpress me, how often am I insensibly relieved andI comforted by thhs and similar promises. How pre.•ciuiis, how exceedingly valuable is the word of God !10.—The rising sun witnesses lor my hefty-venly Father, that he is good. Oh yds! his cha¬racter is infinitely lovely—his attributes are perfect.!I behold his goodness in the works of creation andfprovidencs. But. the beauty of his character shinesfjWKxst eaaspicxtmshj inf tlie plan of salvationA Jn the14lit Jvcmer, beauty and worth are combined; amislifill my heart remain unaft’tfcted, amidst such anendless variety of witnesses of the glory of God PShall 1 be silent, for whom the Son of God, on Cal¬vary, bled and died ?1812. March 9.—To you my beloved mother,shall these pages be cheerfully dedicated. If theyafford you amusement in a solitary hour, if they areinstrumental in dissipating one anxious sensationfrom your heart, I shall be doubly rewarded forWriting. Whatever will gratify a mother so valu¬able as mine, shall here be recorded, however unin¬teresting it might be to a stranger.—The first weekafter our embarkation I was confined to my bedwith sea-sickness. This was a gloomy week. Butmy spirits were not so much depressed, as I onceexpected they would be. The attendants were ob¬liging, and I had every convenience which I couldwish for on board a vessel.Ftb. 24.—The vessel sprung a leak. We werein the greatest danger of sinking during the niglit.'i he men laboured almost constantly at the pump*.The wind changed in the morning. In a day ortwo the leak was providentially discovered, ami pre- jvented from doing any farther injury. Thoughmuch fatigued, sleep departed from me. Thougha sudden exit from life appeared more solemn thanever before, yet I felt a sweet composure in confid¬ing in God, and in leaving the disposal of my lifewith him. We have no family worship, which weconsider a great afUjction Sabbath forenoon, MrN. reads a sermon, and performs the exercises ofworship in the cabin. The captain and officers fa- ivour us with their attendance. ,IViy thoughts were particularly fixed on my bre¬thren and sisters the first Sabtrath in March. Ithought that our dear pastor would not forget la[mtm-oJv v.iih Cud fi-r an absent sister, whiletinu at the tomnnmion table, wheie 1 have often]iad a seat, i shall devote much of my time tort-ading while on tlu* water. There is but little va¬riety in a sea life. I have noticed with pleasurethat many little Articles, which 1 accidentallybrought with me, have contributed touch to toy-comfort. ,Match IS.—-A heavy sea to-day ; the waves haverepealed!}’ broken on deck, and rushed with vio¬lence down the gaim-way into the cabin. Our roomhas not yet been wet.March 14—I have been on deck, and seen thesailors take a turtle. They went out in a boat twoor three miles, and took it by surprise with theirhands. It weighs about twenty pounds. We havelearned how to make yeast. We have occasionallyflour-bread, nuts, apple-puddings, apple-pies, Stc.We have baked and stowed beans twice a vseek,which you know are favourite dishes of mine, alsofowls, hum, &e. We drink tamarind water, porter,cyder, &e. I have been agreeably disappointedjespectirig our manner of living at sea, though weare not free from inconveniences, by any meansMatch lb*.—Yesterday muriiing, religious exer-ci-.es were performed as usual in the cabin. Seve-ral pages in La w's Serious Cali read-. My thoughts! dwell on home, more intensely on the Sabbath thanon any other day. The sun rises touch curlier herethan in Haverhill, At one I think you are goingto church.March IS.—We are now more than 3000 milesfrom home. I shall even find a melancholy plea¬sure in calling my mother’s house in Haverhill myme, though the Atlantic floods roll between.-Long may the best of heaven's blessings lest uponithe dwelling, where I have spent my playful yearn-HiIS16in pence, nnd where in riper age I have known-Ivjiat tranquillity is by happy experience. Longrnay my beloved mother, and dear brothers andsisters, enjoy the blessing of my heavenly Father*and be strangers to affliction and woe.Mky 8—My dear Mr N. has been ill this weekpast with the dysentery ; so ill, that he has kepthis bed the greater part of the time. Should hefall a victim to this painful disease, and leave mealone in a strange land ! But I will not distrust thfecare ot my heavenly Father. I know he will ne¬ver leave nor forsake me, though a widowed stratr-ger in a strange country.Four years to-day since my father’s death. Voir*my dear mother, have probably thought of it, andthe recollection is painful. Dear cousin C. has pro¬bably before this time entered the world of spirits;and perhaps more of my dear Haverhill friends.—We find that we have taken passage in an old leakyVessel, which, perhaps', wifi not stand the force ofthe wind and waves, until we get to Calcutta. Butif *Tud has any thing for ns to do in heathen nsia,we shall get there and accomplish it. Why thc»do we fear ? It is God“ \V!hj rides upon fhe stormy winds,And mmiages the spits,”And is not thrX God our God ?Mtry 10-—Mr Newell's health is much improv¬ed. “ 1 will bless the Lord, because lie hath lieardthe voice of my supplications,”June 1.lb—Rejoice with us, my dear, dear mother>in the goodness of our covenant God. Alter seeingnothing but sky ant) water for mte hundred andjhourter/f dtttys, we this morning heard the joyful ex-•clafnatibn -tit" haul !'' It is the coast of Or¬issa. about-twenty miles from us., Should the windhe bivourublo, v/e shall not lose sight of land againITuntil vvc get to Calcutta. We hope to sec die Pck*goda- iviiich cMintaius the Ido! Juggernaut, beforeaunrspt The view of the .Orisin coast, though ati n distance, excites within me a variety of sensations| unknown before. For it is. the land of Pa<>an dark-I ness, which Buchanan so feelingly describes.- -tit| Ju)ie 17.— After a tedious ypyage, we have, ip/h-( dear mother, arrived at Calcutta. We resett?^ hcj*?f yesterday, at three olclock in the akernboo. .M;?I N. went on s!)<?re invmedialcly, and rt/turoed it; die] evening-.—Qh,nny ntothyr, nvv heart is ^titieu vvitht.--;; in me at what I have already seyo- of’ jiiese -wretqhed T| Pagans. Here we arc, su-ft>andyd by jmudreds of .j tliem, whose only.object is tp get their -:ce, eat,[drink, and sleep. One of the -artier cast* -who-can; talk English, has just Ion the cabin. Your piousi heart, tr,y clear mother, would melt with compassionto hear him talk. Oh the superstition that prevailsI through this country ! . , ‘ ■syio.’ci 18.—Yesterday afternoon we left the ves,eel, and were conveyed in a palanquin throughcrowds of Hindoos to Dr Carey’.-.—No. Englishlady is here seen walking the streets. This I donot now wonder at. The natives are so numerousand noisy, that a walk would be extremely nnplea-nt. ingnTsggiHt V cdrfsr-"'June tO, At Seram pore, - We came here lastveiling by water. The dear Missionaries receivedifns with the same cordiality, as they would, if wefad been their own brothers and sisters. This ishe most delightful place I ever saw'. Here tholissionaries enjoy all the comforts of life, and are;.)stively engaged in the Redeemer’s service. Af tertedious voyage of four mouths at sea, think, mydear mother, how grateful to us is this retired andfieJightful spot. The mission-house consists of tbgpiar^c poimnudvous stony buildings.18Junrtl.— Mr N.'-preached tins morning in dieMission clifipt!. Mr W. in the afternoon, in theBengrtlte language, to about fiftv Hindoos nndiUussuImnns. This af’ternoon, I shall ever recol¬lect, with peculiar sensations The appearance ofthe Christian Hindoos, when listening to the wordof life, won Id have reproved many an AmericanChristian. Had you been present, I am sure youcould not have refrained from weeping. Had anopposer of missions been present, his objectionsmust have vanished. He would have exclaimed.What hath God wrought ! To hear the praises ofJesus sung by a people of strange language ; tosee them kneel before the throno of grace ; to be-hold them eagerly catching every word which pro¬ceeded from the' month of their minister, wa* ajoyful, aflecting scene Rejoice, my mother; thestandard of the blessed ImmnmM is erected in thisdistant Pagan land 1 and here the gospel will un*doublcdlv continue, till the commencement of thebright milennial day.f have just returned from a scene,calculated to awaken every compassionate feeling.At nine in the morning we took a bufigero'X, andwent three or four miles up the river to see theworship of Juggernaut. Jhf log of rcooi was ta¬ken from hix Poroda, and bathed in the sacred :m-tn-s of the Ganges. The assembled worshippersfollowed the example ; anrl thousands flocked tothe river, where, with prayers and many supersti¬tious rites, they balhed. Miserable wretches !Oh ! that American Christians would but form anadequate idea of the gross darkness which coversthis people .'-—To-day the great Juggernaut is re¬moved from his temple, placed on bis car, on-ddrawn in triumph through the assembled mass rfwar ship fees. fsvnic will probably sacrifice tludrbHI,r*?, fnui ite* onty ihrce milrt dhUtnt ft ova .SV>*-•npore. IrVitV Tenting-, / fuar the drum artd theulrumenti q/ idol muxic., Farther EvciracUjiom her DaryAt four p. in. another mt-swage from governmentiss received. Mr N- and Mr J. ordered to ap.-!ear before tiie Police again, to receive furtherjtymnands. Mr J. immediately took the buggy,chaise j and set out for Calcutta.—In the evening|ent to the car of Juggernaut, which stands in the!*ad A huge building five stories high ; imageslinted all over it; two large horses with a cha*loteer made of wood in front ; with many wheels,irawn by the natives with large cables. From thoitr we walked through the market to the temple,.hero the great god of the Hindoos is now resid-jig—a horrid object indeed ! Not allowed to en-r the temple ; hut could see him plainly—a log^wood, painted red. with large hideous eyes,tittle images were kept for sale in the market.Ve walked through an immense crowd of Hindoos>me I was confused with the noise and bustle' the place, and excessively wearied with my long; elk.j July 18.—My dear MrN. returned last eveningJtigued in body and depressed in mind There isovv no alternative left hut a return to America,” a settlement among some savage tribe, wliereJr lives would be in con-tant danger. Ford, we■e oppressed ! graciously undertake for u«. Wetow not which way to direct our steps. Oh thatte Harmony would arrive! Insurmountable oh-lacles attend us on ever}' side. Pity us, O yelends of Immanuel ! Pity our perplexed situa.an, and intercede with the prayer-hearing Re-ijymcr for direction in the path of duty.—I lowgio engage in the great object for which I left mhome. I shall begin to study the French lanjguage with MrN. on the passage. Captain Cliim!min ant talks French. Oil for mote ardtpl pietyThe fuliovvNig ietter from Mr Newest to ]VlrA* wood, completes the afRctint history of MrNow.eU t—Fort Louh, (hit of Francs.) Dec. 10. 1S1“ \\ hen 1 sit down to address you, my dealmother, from this distant Ja«d, to me a landstrangers and a place of exile, a thousand tendethoughts arise in my mind, and naturally soggesfcuch inquiries as these :-—How is it now with thadear woman to whom 1 am indebted for my greatest earthly blessing—the mother of my dear Ha ftriel r And mine too; for I must claim the privilege of considering.you as my own dear motherDoes the candle of the Lord rtili shine on her tabsPltacie, and is the voice of joy and praise yeheard in her dwelling ? Or, what is not imprebahie in this world of disappointment, has some newaffliction, the death perhaps of a dear child, or osome other beloved friend, caused her heart agait:to bleed, and her tears to flow? Ab ! my motherthough we may live many years, and see good irthem all, yet let us remember the days of darkness, for they too will foe many, ft is decreed bMInfinite Wisdom alone, . that through much tribu1 atjon we must enter the kingdom of heaven. Youmy dear mother, have had your share of adversity;aiu! I too have had mine But we will not complain.Banetififcd aillictions are. the choicest favours olheaven. They cure us of our vain and foolish, expeciatious from the world, and teach our thought:-to ascend, and fix on joys that never die. I nevelonged so ranch to see you as I have these severaldays past. What would I now give to sit onehou£21jfcy that dear fireside, where I have tasted the mdsi[unalloyed pleasure that earth affords, ana recount£0 you and the dear children, the perils, the toils,ad the sufferings, through which I have passed-kince I left my native land. Irt this happy circleI should for a moment forget I Oil the 19th of 6epterhher we re^emharked, arid'Mrs N. enjoyed comf'orta’hle health till nearly threeveeks after leaving Coringa ; and about threeveeks before reaching the Isle of France, whenthe became the mother of a fine healthy daughter,pour days after, in consequence of a severe storm' f wind ami ruin, the child took cold, and died on;|he evening of the next day, after Waving been de¬leted to God in baptism. About a week afteri Irs N.’s coufirteuitmt, the symptoms of a eonsump-lon appeared. Theugli Mr -N feared the worst,e did not consider helv case as fata!-, tilt the lastart night of Her life, tWiich commenced about tenfys after their arrival at the Isle of France,diere was but tittle alteration in Mrs N/s health,i xcepting that she gradually lost strength) till a*out a fortnight before her death, wheri she do¬med more rapidly, and all hope of her recovery.is extinguished. About four o’clock oh Monday,e 30th of November, her eyesight failed her,.Ion aftdr wide!) she calmly, and with apparentr>e, expired, seven weeks and four days after he'rJepfineiueut.fbln view of those sufferings which she after-*inis experienced, she writes thus;—‘ I hope totell the pHice of our destination in good healtff.p l fee! no anxiety about that. I know thatId. orders every thing in the best possible manned.He so orders events, that 1 should suffer painl sickness on. tlie stormy ocean, without a fklie friend, exposed to.the fr&trif5intSfkvVnlei•*ees, sn.f }hall I rff'.iuo, ami tliink he Hcah hardly \tiOiv no ! Let (he aevertst Uxah nuti di*ftyinimenl* fall to my lot, guiily and weak as I ay<*t I think I can rejoice in the Lord, and joythe God of my salvation.’* In the first partof her sickness, which succeed the birth of her babe, she had some don!which occasionally interrupted her spiritual cofort ; hut they were soon removed, and her miwas filled with that peace of God winch passtail undt rstandiog. When I asked her, a few’dabefore she died, if she had any remaining dnurtspec'ing her spiritual state, she answered withemphasis, jhat sin: iiah n'ONK. During the w boi her sickness, she talked in the most fainiIrr.annef, and with great delight, of death and iMory that was to follow. When Dr Burke c'd.*y told her, those were gloomy thoughts, she 1.better get rid of them ; she replied, that, oncontrary, they were to her cheering and joyfulyond what she could express. When I attempto persuade her that she would recover, (whicifumily hoped) it seemed to strike her like a dispointment. She would say, ‘ You ought ratto pray that 1 may depart, that I may he perftly free from sin, and be where God is.’Her mind was fiom day to day filled withmost comforting and delightful views of the craeter of Gad and Christ. She often reques.me to talk to her on these interesting subjeShe told me that her thoughts were so much cfused, by the distress of , body she had sufferthat she found it difficult steadily to pursue a trof thought on divine things, but that she contia'ly looked to God, and passively rested on h&he often spoke of meeting her friends in heavIfPerhaps,’ said she, * my dear mother hasbefore me to -licaven,, ».»«! as soott.M I leave tfsijbcuJv l sliaH J3nd myseli wHii her.’ At anothertime »Ke said, k We often talk of meeting ourfriends in heaven ; but what nrottid heaven be withall our fiiendi if God were not there ?’A few days before she died, after one of thosedistressing turns’of coughing and raising phlegm,■which so rapidly wasted her strength, she Calledra* to come and sit on the bed beside her, and r’e-oeive her dvin^ mesaime lo her friends. She ob-served, that her strength was quite exliausttd, andshe cculd say only a few words ; but feared she1 should not have another epnortunity. ‘ Ttdl my[ dear mother,’ said sh», 4 how much Harriet lovedI htr. Tell her to look to God and keep near to| Him, and He vtill support And Comfort lier in allI trials. I shall meet her in heaven ; fbr safely sheh one of the dear children of God.’ f?he then advtrl-| ed to her brothers and sisters. | Tell them,’ said‘ from the lips of tlieif dying sister, that there]4is nothing but religion worth living for. ’Oh ! ex-rihort them to attend immediately to tlie cire bfitheir precious, immortal stools 'l^II ththn not toIjdelay repentance. The eldest of them will be anx-^iftus' to know how I now fefcl with respect to mis-ions. Tell them, and also my detm rbother, thathave never regretted leaving my native land forhtt'icHQs.e of Christ. Let my dear brothers andliters knb*^ that 1 love them to the last. I hopea meet the.ti in heaven ; but Oh ! if I should not P-Here the tears burst Tom her eyes, and her sobsf grief at the thought of an eternal separation ex-•fessed t’he- feelings that were too big for flttCrfmckAtcr she had recovered a little from tbe shock,• .hich these strong emottous hud given toher wlioled "ame, she atteaVpted to speak to several other; lends, but'Was obliged to sum op all she had84to ssy. in ‘ Love ami an afftctionate farevsvJl tothem ail ’ Within a day or two of her deathjsuch conyersution as the following passed betweenus :—Should you not ha willing to recover, and livea v-’hiit“ C)n.9ome accounts it would be desirable. Iwish to do sortnibiug (fqr Lad before I die. Buttiie experience 1 hove .h; fof the deceit fulness ofmy heart leads iue to expert, that if I should re¬cover, my future life would be much the same as|my past has been, and I long to he perfectly free!from sin. God has called me away before we have!entered on the work of the mission, hut the ease of IDavid affords me comfort ; 1 have had it in aiyjheart to do what I could for the heathen, and I]hope God will accept me.” |“ But what shall I do, when you are gone ?$How can 1 hear the separation.?” jJesus will be your best friend, and our sepa-st'ation will he short. We snail soon, very soon,;.meet in a better world; if I thought we shouldlnot, it would, be painful indeed to part with you.’JDuring Sabbath night* she seemed to be a littlejwandering; hut the next morning she had her re-;epllectiou perfectly. As I stood by her, I asked if,ghe knew me. At first she made no answer. Isaid to her again, “ My dear Harriet, do you knowiv.ho I am?”—My dear Mr Newell, my hus-iband,1' was her reply ; hut in broken accents, audju \ iic.e fad..ring in /..:■!-v;.' •The last words which I remember, and wbich'iI Uii.uk were the last she uttered relative to her dedparture^ were these, The pain,s, the groans, tiltdying.itfife-!-’{low long, O Lord* how long !".S.AjH'F.r N'rwKJ.r. :