REBELLION OF 1745;OR, THEBROKEN HEART. 1m*&TO WHICH IS ADDKD,THE THREE WISHES,AND THE ADVENTURES OPTWO TEE-TOTALEEKS.L UBRGL ASGOPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.■[•/ ED -OB HIE BOOK8Eri' Hr?’ f :er/BGOlLgg^vrL/AO XEE'XOXYITEKS*/{ -A XHS TDASKXilKKI ObXHE IHKEE /AI8HEX'BBDKSH HEVDInBEFErriOM OE I i*S S :THEBROKEN HEART.OB, THEDEFEAT OF PRINCE CHARLES.pi ari.y in the November of 1745, the news reachedi lambridge that Charles Stuart, at the head ol hisij'irdy and loyal Highlanders, had crossed the Hor-,t(rs, and taken possession of Carlisle. The inhabi-llnts gazed upon each other with terror, for thewords of the clansmen had triumphed over all■iposition ; they wore regarded, also, by the nmlti-nie as savages, and by the more ignorant as|S nnibals. Hut there were others who rejoiced in» 3 success of the young Adventurer, and who,(igerous as it was to confess their joy, took butall pains to conceal it. Amongst that numbers James Dawson, the son of a wealthy gentleman«the north of Lancashire, and then a student at. John’s College. That night he invited a partyfriends to sup with him, who held sentimentsnilar to his own. The cloth was withdrawn, androse and gave, as the toast of the evening—‘rince Charles, and success to him !" His guests:d with his own enthusiasm, rose and receivedtoast with cheers. The bottle went round—theling men drank deep, and other toasts of a like.1nature followed. The song succeeded the toastand James Dawson sang the following, whicli|seemed to he the composition of the day:—“ Free o’er the borders, the tartan is streaming;The dirk is unsheathed, and the claymore is gleaming,The prince and his clansmen in triumph advance,Nor needs he the long-promised succours from France.From the Cumberland mountains, and Westmoreland lake,Each brave man shall snatch up his sword for his sake ,And the Lancashire Witch on her bosom shall wearThe snow-white cockade, by her lover placed there.”But while he yet sang, and as he completed Lir,the first verse, two constables and three soldier:hurst into the room, and denounced them as traitor;and as their prisoners.“Down with them!” exclaimed James Dawsonspringing forward, and snatching down a swordwhich was hanging over the fire-place. Tinstudents vigorously resisted the attempt to malathem prisoners, and several of them, with Jamesescaped.He concealed himself for a short time, when, hi.horse being brought, he took the road toward)Manchester, in order to join the Pretender. Iwas about midnight, on the 29th, when he reachedthe town which is now the emporium of the manui ifacturing world. On proceeding down Market1;street, he perceived a confused crowd, some utter >ing threats, and others with consternation expressed •on their countenances ; and, in the midst of tin imultitude, was Sergeant Dickson, a young woman iand a drummer boy, beating up for recruits. Tin ■Avhite cockade streaming from the hat of the sen |geant; the people vented their indignation agains |him, but no man durst seize him, for he turne;round and round, with a blunderbuss in his handfacing the crowd on all sides, and threatening tuashoot the first man that approached, who was not■ ready to serve the Prince, and mount the whites cockade. The young woman carried a supply ofdie ribbons in her hand, and ever and anon wavedi hem in triumph, crying—“Charlie yet!” Somelozen recruits already followed at the heels of thei pergeant. James Dawson spurred his horse throughhe multitude.r “Give me one of your favours,” said he,j addressing the sergeant.“ Ay, a dozen, your honour, replied Dickson.”He received the ribbon and tied it to his breast,jind placed another at his horse’s head. His con-jiuct had an effect upon the multitude; numbersllocked around the sergeant, his favours becameidxhausted; and when the Prince and the armywi ntered the town in the evening, he brought beforejiim an hundred and eighty men, which he hadwhat day enlisted.1 The little band so raised were formed into whatHbras called the Manchester regiment, of whichil|allant Townly was made Colonel, and Jamesfljuawson one of the Captains.Our business at present is not with the move-ii|ients of Charles Edward, nor need we describeis daring march towards Derby, which struckrror throughout all England, and for a timeemed to shake the throne and its dynasty ; norwell upon the particulars of his masterly retreatowards Scotland—suffice it to say, that on the 19thf December, the Highland army again enteredarlisle.On the following morning they evacuated it;j'Ut the Manchester regiment, which was now com-osed of about three hundred men, was left as aarrison, to defend the town, against the entirermy of the proud Cumberland. They were de¬nted as a sacrifice, that the Prince and the mainVc>army might he saved. The brave Townly, amthe young and gallant Dawson were not ignorant olthe desperateness and hopelessness of their situa¬tion ; but they strove to impart their own herois:to the garrison, and to defend the town to the IasiOn the morning of the 21st, the entire army of thdDuke of Cumberland arrived before Carlisle, amtook possession of the fortifications that commander'it. lie commanded the garrison to surrender, anthey answered him by a discharge of musquetrThey had withstood a siege of ten days, dnwhich time, Cumberland had erected batteries, andgot cannon from Whitehaven ; before their fire thedecaying and neglected walls of the city gave way<0 hold out- another day was impossible, and therewas no resource left for the devoted band but tosurrender or perish. On the 30th, a white flagwas hoisted on the ramparts. On its being per¬ceived,. the cannon ceased to play upon the townand a message was sent to the Duke to enquire whatterms he would grant to the garrison.“ Tell them,” he replied haughtily, “ I offer noterms but these, that they will not be put to the;sword, but shall be reserved for his Majesty to deallwith them as he may think proper.”There was no alternative, and these doubtfuland evasive terms were accepted. The garrisonwere disarmed, and under a heavy guard placed inthe cathedral.James Dawson and seventeen others were con¬veyed to London, and cast into prison, to wait thewill of his Majesty. Till now his parents wereignorant of the fate of their son, though they hadheard of his being forced to flee from the university,and feared that he had joined the Prince. Toosoon their worst fears were realised, and the truthrevealed to them. But there was another whotrembled for him, whose heart felt keenlv as a(bnrent’s—she who was to be his wife, to whom hi.*fiand was plighted, and his heart given. Fannyj|Lestef was 'a young and gentle being, and she hadiknown James Dawson from her childhood. Know¬ledge ripened to affection, and their hearts wereijtwined together. On the day on which she came*0 know of his imprisonment, she hastened totfiLondou to comfort him—to cheer his gloomy soli-Ijtvxde—at the foot of the throne to sue for hisjardon.She arrived at the metropolis—she was guided tohe prison-house, and admitted. On entering thedoomy apartment in which he was confined, shecreamed aloud—she raised her hands, and spring-ng forward, fell upon his neck and Avept.“ My OAArn Fanny!” he exclaimed, “you here!—,vocp not my sweet one—come, he comforted—here is hope—every hope—I shall not die—myOwn, be comforted.”“ Yes !—yes there is hope, the King Avill pardonou,” she exclaimed, “he will spare my James—I!!|vill implore your life at his feet.”“ Nay, nay love, say not the King,” interruptedhe young enthusiast for the house of Stuart; “ itIvill be but imprisonment till all is over—the Elcc-or cannot seek my life.”He strove long and earnestly to persuade herhat his life was not in danger—that he would heaved—and what he Avished she believed. Theailor entered and informed them that it was timehe should depart, and again sinking her headipon his breast, she Avept, “good night.”But each day she revisited him, and they spokeif his deliverance together. At times too shq told'turn with tears of the efforts she had made to ob-i ain his pardon—of her attempts to gain admissionB ,o the presence of the King—of the repulses shenet Avith—of her applications to the nobility con-Vgneeted with the court—of the insult and inhuman¬ity she met with from some—the compassion she'experienced from others—the interest they took in |:his fate, and the hopes and promises which theyheld out. Upon those hopes and promises shefondly dwelt. She looked into his eyes to perceive,the hope they kindled there, and as joy beame "from them, she half forgot that his life hung uponthe word of a man.But his parents came to visit him ; her’s followed her, and they joined their efforts to hers, an 'anxiously, daily, almost hourly, they exerted theirenergies to obtain his pardon. His father possessedan influence in electioneering matters in Lanca¬shire, and hers could exercise the same in an ad¬joining county. That influence was urged—themembers they supported were importuned. Theypromised to employ their best exertions. Whateverthe feelings or principles of the elder Dawson mightbe, he had never avowed disaffection openly—he hadnever evinced a leaning to the family of Stuart—•he had supported the government of the day; andthe father of Fanny was an upholder of the house ofHanover. The influence of their relatives, and alltheir friends were brought into action; .peers andcommoners were supplicated, and they pledged theirintercession. Men high in office took an interest inthe fate of James Dawson, or professed to take it;promises, half official, were held out, and when Idsyouth, the short time that he had engaged in the ;rebellion, and the situation ho held in the army ofthe Adventurer were considered, no one doubtedbut that his pardon was certain—that he would notbe brought to trial. Even his parents felt assured—but the word of the King was not passed.They began to look forward to the day of hisdeliverance with impatience, but still with cer¬tainty. There was but one heart that feared, andIt throbbed in the heart of pom- Fanny, vn 10 Ttr/Mi 1 r)‘tart from her sleep, crying—“Save him!—savehim!” as she fancied she beheld them draggingaim to execution. In order to soothe her, her pa¬rents and his, in the confidence that pardon woulddo extended to him, agreed that the day of hisliberation should be the day of their bridal. Shetnew their affection, and her heart struggled withtier fears to believe the “ flattering tale.”i James tried also to cheer her—he believed thatjus life would be spared—he endeavoured to smileuid be happy.I''“Fear not my Fanny, ho would say; your•doubts are idle. The Elector” | A nd here his father would interfere, “ Speak not! jo, my son,” said the old man earnestly, “speaklot against princes in your bedchamber, for a birdl f the air can carry the tidings. Your life is inIhe hands of a King—of a merciful one—and it is(ijafc —only speak not thus—do not, as you love metras you love our Fanny, do not.”Then would they chase away her fears, andleak of the intended bridal; and Fanny wouldnile pensively while James held her hand in his,tnd, as he gazed on her finger, he raised it to hisps, as though he took the measure of the ring.: But ‘ hope deferred makes the heart sick;’ andk hough they still were confident that he would be) ardoned,—yet their anxiety increased, and Fanny’si eart seemed unable longer to contain its agonynd suspense. Six months had passed, but still no) ardon came for James Dawson. The fury of thei ivil war was spent—the royal Adventurer hadi scaped—the vengeance of the sword was satisfied,i nd the law of the conquerors, and the scaffolds ofhe law, called for the blood of those whom the« word had saved. The soldier laid down his* veapon, and the executioner took up his. On theleaders of Hip Mauehepter regiiuont vli3 vengeanet>i tne blood-thirsty Jaw ili»i foil. It was on thoveniug of the 14th of July, 1740, James Dawsoijsat in his prison, Fanny sat by his side, with hehand in his, and his parents were present also, wheithe jailor entered, and ordered him to prepare thold himself ready for his trial, in the court-hous-at St Margaret’s, Southwark, on the following dayHis father groaned—his mother exclaimed, “ inson!”—but Fanny sat motionless. No tear was iijher eye—no muscle in her countenance move®Her fingers grasped his with a firmer pressurebut she evinced no other symptom of having heartthe mandate that was delivered. They rose to depart, and a low deep sigh issued from her bosombut she showed no sign of violent grief—her feel,mgs were already exhausted—‘her heart could heaino more.On the following day, eighteen victims, with tingallant Townly at their head, were brought fort!for trial, before a grand jury. Amongst them, ancas one of the chief, was James Dawson. Fannyhad insisted on being present. She heard the won•juilty pronounced with a yet deeper apathy thanshe had evinced at the announcement of his trialShe folded her hands on her bosom, her lips movedin prayer, but she shed not a single tear, nonbreathed a single sigh. She arose, and beckonedto her attendants, who accompanied her from thecourt-house.Still his friends entertained the hope that the.Pardon Power might be moved—they redoubledtheir exertions—they increased their importunities—they were willing to make any sacrifice that hislife might be but saved—and even then, at theeleventh hour, they hoped against hope, but Fannyyielded not to vain thoughts. Day after day' sheeat by her lover’s side, and she. in her turn, be-ui’amo liis comfortor. She no longer spoke of theirbpridal—hut she spoke of eternity; she spoke ofllheir meeting >vliere the ambition, the rivalry, ami> ike power of princes should he able to cast no cloudi iver the happiness of the soul.r> Fourteen days had passed, and during that he||tad showed no sign of fear ; she evinced none of an voman’s weakness. She seemod to have masteredj |er grief, and her soul was prepared to meet them.,, jfet, save only when she spoke to him, her soul) jppeared entranced, and her body lifeless. On theijflth July, an order was brought for the executionIlf the victims on the following day. Janies Dawsonmowed his head to the officer who delivered therrarrant, and calmly answered—“ I am prepared!”1| The cries of the mother rang through the prison.(|he tore her hair—-she sank upon the floor, she•ijtntreated Heaven, to spare her child. Uis fatherafroaned, he held the hand pf his son in his, andi,ears gushed down his furrowed cheeks. Fanny; jjlone was silent, she alone was tranquil. No throejf.agony swelled her bosom, flushed in her counte-clance, or burned in her eye. Slip was calm,ilieechless, resigned. He pressed her to his heart,lid took a last farewell.■ “Adieu! adieu!—my own,” he cried—“myfanny, farewell, an eternal farewell!”1 “Nay, nay,” she replied, “ not eternal, we shallI'jieet again. 5Tis a short farewell, I feel it—I feel1. Aclieu love,—adieu! Die firmly. We shalltiteet soon.”Ki Next morning the prisoners wore to be draggedi sledges to Kensington Common, which was tolip the place of execution. In the first sledge was|jie executioner, sitting over his fettered victimsiith a drawn sword in his hand. No priest—noinister of religion attended them ; and around,le sledges followed thousands, some few expressing12sympathy, but the majority following from curiosity,and others venting their execrations against alltraitors. In the midst of the multitude was ahackney coach, following the sledges, and in it wasthe gentle Fanny Lester, accompanied by a relativeand a female friend. They had endeavoured topersuade her from the fearful trial, but she wascalm, resolute, and not to be moved, and theyyielded to her wish. The coach drew up withinthirty yards of the scaffold. Fanny pulled downthe window, and leaning over it, she beheld thepile of faggots lighted round the scaffold ; she sawthe flames rise, and the soldiers form a circle roundthem. She saw the victims leave the sledges ; shelooked upon him whom her heart loved, as hemounted the place of death, and his step was firm,his countenance unmoved. She saw him join inprayer with his companions, and her eyes werefixed on him as he flung papers and his hat amongthe multitude. She saw the fatal signal given,and the drop fall ; she heard the horrid shout thatburst from the multitude, but not a muscle of herframe moved. Sho gazed calmly, as though it hadbeen on a bridal ceremony. She beheld the executioner begin the barbarities which the lawawards to treason ; the clothes were torn from the |victims, one by one they were cut down, and thefinisher of the law, with the horrid knife in hihand, proceeded to lay open their bosoms, and tak¬ing out their hearts, flung them on the faggots thatblazed around the scaffold. The last spectacle ofbarbarity was James Dawson ; and when the executioner had plunged the knife in his breast, lieraised his heart in his hand and holding it amoment before the horror-stricken and disgustedmultitude, he cast it into the fire, exclaiming, ashe flung it from him—“God save King George!yFanny saw this—her eves became blind—she heard| not the shout of the multitude—she drew back heri head into the coach—it dropped on the shoulder ofher companion, “My dear! I follow thee! I followthee!” she exclaimed, clasping her hands together—“sweet Jesus! receive both our souls!” Theyattempted to raise her head, to support her in theirarms, but she sunk back lifeless; Iter spirit hadaccompanied him it loved; she died of stifled; agony and a broken heart.14the adventuresOPTWOTEE-TO TALLA shout time ago, a couple in town, who indulgedtoo freely m the use of spirits, became sensible ofthe miseries which their favourite beverage en¬tailed on them. One night when the husbandcame home drunk, his wife said to him, “ Johnnyye maun gi’e o’er this drinking, or we’ll be ruineda thegither, ye . mann join the tee-totallers. ”HiU ye join wi’ me Jenny?” “Deed will I.”, AT’wvff Sien’ £md we’U strike tlie airn whileOff they went and joined the tee-totallers,anfl t,101r affairs began to mend. But the new-year• ame and Jenny proposed that they should have awee drap m the house—no for themsel’s, but forony frien that might drap in.” “ Are ye garnito break through, Jenny?” “Only for -i wee.”Aweel lass, I se join ye.” Off they went to¬gether, with a child in the wife’s arms, to lay in !their new-years stock. As a little bit of reward at Ihaving kept their vows so well, and sticking totheir resolution, they partook of a few gills to¬gether ; and by the time they arose to go homethe pavement was rather narrow for them. Besidesthe wee drappie for the use of chance callers, one'coined two stones of meal, the other the child, and]5these burdens tliey oxchanged occasionally on theway home, it being deemed advisable, that the onewho walked the most steadily should carry thechild. On their arrival at home they did not seemcertain what change had last been made ; and thehusband deposited his burden in the cradle, whilethe wife locked her one up in the press. By andby the child began to cry, the wife set about rock¬ing the cradle, and as the cries increased, herrocking exertions increased in equal proportion ;but all could not pacify the child. A neighbourwoman hearing the noise, went in to see what wasthe matter, but on going to lift the child from thecradle, no child was there, but in lieu thereof, werethe two stones of meal in a bag! The press wasopened, and there was the child occupying theshelf usually allotted for the meal! We havenot heard whether this canny couple have yet re¬joined the tee-totalists.U)THE STORYOFTHE THREE WISHES.There was once a man who was not very rich,who had a very pretty woman to his wife. Onewinter’s evening as they sat by the fire, they \talked of the happiness of the neighbours aroundthem who were richer than they. Said the wife,“ If it were in my power to have what I wish, Ishould soon be happier than all of them.”—“ Soshould I too,” said the husband ; “ I wish we hadfairies now a days, and that one of them was kindenough to grant to me whatever I should ask orwish for.”Now, reader, listen to the sequel of the story,and see, after having the means in their power ofbecoming rich, whether they became happier or not. ,Just as they had finished speaking, a very 'beautiful young lady appeared in the room, whoaddressed them thus,-—I am a fairy, and I pro¬mise to grant you the first three things you shallwish for ; but take care—after having wished forthese three things, I will not grant one wishfarther.”The fairy disappeared, and the man and his wifewere much perplexed.“ For my own part,” said the wife, '* if it wereleft to my choice, I know very well what I shouldwish for ; I do not wish yet, but I think nothing isso good as to be handsome, and rich, and to be ofgreat quality,”17“ But,” answered the husband, “with all these[things that you mention, one may be sick, andi fretful, besides, who knows but one may die young :-—it would be much wiser, I think, to wish forhealth, cheerfulness, and a long life.”“ But to what purpose is a long life with pover-■ ty i” says the wife; “it would only prolong ouri misery. In truth, the fairy should have promisedus about a dozen of gifts; for there are at least adozen things which I want, and the wants of thislife are so many, that we would always be findingout new ones.”“ That’s very true,” said the husband, lookingvery wise ; “ but let us take time ; let us carefullyconsider, from this time till morning, the threethings which are most necessary for our happiness,and then wish.”‘ I’ll think all night,” said the wife ; “ mean¬while,*let us warm ourselves for it is very cold.”At the same time, the wife took up the tongs to[mend the fire ; and seeing there was a great many!of the coals thoroughly lighted, she exclaimedwithout at all thinking on the mischief she would• work, “ This is a very nice fire ; I wish we had asyard of black pudding for our supper, we could getit finely dressed.”She had hardly these words out of her mouth,when there came tumbling down the chimney aard of black pudding.“ Plague on your greedy guts, with your infernalblack pudding! exclaimed the enraged husband ;here’s a fine wish indeed! Now we have only twoleft. For my part, I am so vexed, that I wish theblack pudding was sticking fast to the tip of yournose.”The man soon perceived that he was a great dealsillier than his wife ; for he had no sooner utteredthis second wish, than up starts the black pudding.and sticks so fast to the tip of the poor wife’s nosg, ■that it defied all their efforts to take it off.“ Wretch that I am!” cried the wife, “you area wicked man for ■wishing the pudding fast to thetip of jour poor wife’s nose.”“ Mj dearest wife,” answered the husband, “ Idid not take the least thought of what 1 was say¬ing. But what shall wo do ? I am about wishing |for vast riches, and purpose to make a golden case |to hide the pudding.”“ Not at all,” answered the wife, in great grief,“ for I would kill myself were I to live with thispudding dangling at my nose. Be persuaded, we .have still a wish to make—leave it to me, or I shallgo away just now, and throw myself out at thewindow.”With this she ran and opened the window, butthe husband, who really loved his pretty wife,called out, “ Hold my dear wife, I give you leaveto wish for any thing you like.”“ Well,” said the wife, “ my wish is, that thispudding may drop off.”At that instant the pudding dropped off; andthe wife, who did not want wit, said to her hhs- jhand,—“ You see the fairy has imposed upon us ; shewas in the right: possibly we should have beenmore unhappy with riches than we are at present.Believe me, friend, let us wish for nothing, and takethings as it shall please God to send them ; in themeantime let us sup upon our pudding, since thatis all that remains to us of our wishes.”The husband thought his wife judged right; theysupped merrily, and never gave themselves farthertrouble about the things they had designed to wisiifor. |SIXGUllUlADVENTURE OF A BRITISH SOLDIER,In a Campaign in North America.In tlio year 1779, when the war with America wasconducted with great spirit upon that continent, adivision of the British army was encamped on thehanks of a river, and in a position so favoured bynature, that it was difficult for any military art tosurprise it. War in America was rather a speciesof hunting than a regular campaign. “ If youfight with art,” said Washington to his soldiers,“ you arc sure to be defeated. Acquire disciplineenough for retreat and the uniformity of combinedattack, and your country will prove the best ofengineers.” So true was the maxim of the Ame¬rican General, that the English soldiers had tocontend with little else. The Americans had in¬corporated the Indians into their ranks, and hadmade them useful in a species of war to whichtheir habits of life had peculiarly fitted them.They sallied out of their impenetrable forests andjungles, and with their arrows and tomahawks,committed daily waste upon the'British army,—surprising their sentinels, cutting off their strag¬glers, and even when the alarm was given andpursuit commenced, they fled with a swiftness thatthe speed of cavalry could not overtake, into rocksand fastnesses whither it was dangerous to followthem. In order to limit as far as possible this20species of war, in which there was so much lossand so little honour, it was the custom with everyregiment to extend its outposts to a great distancebeyond the encampments; to station sentinelssome miles in the woods, and keep a constantguard round the main body.A regiment of foot was at this time stationedupon the confines of a boundless savannah. Itsparticular office was to guard every avenue ofapproach to the main body; the sentinels, whoseposts penetrated into the woods, were suppliedfrom the ranks, and the service of this regimentwas thus more hazardous than that of any other.Its loss was likewise great. The sentinels wereperpetually surprised upon their posts by the In¬dians, and were borne off their stations withoutcommunicating any alarm, or being heard of after.Not a trace was left of the manner in which theyhad been conveyed away, except that upon one ortwo occasions, a few drops of blood had appearedupon the leaves which covered the ground. Manyimputed this unaccountable disappearance to ttreachery, and suggested as an unanswerableargument, that the men thus surprised might at :least have fired their muskets, and communicatedthe alarm to the contiguous posts. Others, whocould not be brought to consider it as treachery,were content to receive it as a mystery which timewould unravel.One morning, the sentinels having beenstationed as usual over night, the guard went outat sun-rise to relieve a post which extended a con¬siderable distance into the wood. The sentinelwas gone! the surprise was great; but the cir¬cumstance had occurred before. They left anotherman and departed wishing him better luck. “ You :need not be afraid,” said the man with warmth,‘ I shall not desert !The relief company returned to the guard-house.The sentinels were replaced every four hours, andat the appointed time the guard again marched torelieve the post. To their inexpressible astonish¬ment the man was gone ! They searched roundthe spot, but no traces could be found of his disap¬pearance. It was necessary that the station, froma stronger motive than ever, should not remain un¬occupied ; they were compelled to leave anotherman and return to the guard-house. The supersti¬tion of the soldiers was awakened, and the terrorran through the regiment. The Colonel being ap¬prized of the occurrence, signified his intention toaccompany the guard when they relieved the senti¬nel they had left. At the appointed time, theyall marched together ; and again, to their unutter¬able wonder, they found the post vacant and theman gone! Under .these circumstances, the Colo¬nel hesitated whether he should station a wholecompany on the spot, or whether he should againsubmit the post to a single sentinel. The causeof these repeated disappearances of men, whosecourage and honesty were never suspected, must bediscovered ; and it seemed not likely that this dis¬covery could be obtained by persisting in the oldmethod. Three brave men were now lost to theregiment, and to assign the post to a fourth seem¬ed nothing less than giving him up to destruction.The poor fellow whose turn it was to take the sta¬tion, though a man in other respects of incomparableresolution, trembled from head to foot. “ I mustdo my duty,” said he to the officer, “ I know that;but I should like to lose my life with more credit.”“ I will leave no man,” said the Colonel, “ againsthis will.” A man immediately slept from the ranks,and desired to take the post. Every mouth com¬mended this resolution. ‘ ‘ I will not be taken alive, ’ ’said he : “ and you shall hear of me on the leastjilarm At all events I will fire my piece it 1 hearthe least noise. If a crow chatters, or a leaf falls,you shall hear my musket. Yon may be alarmedwhen nothing is the matter; hut you must takethe chance as the condition of tTie discovery.” The jColonel applauded his courage, and told him liewould he right to fire upon the least noise whichwas ambiguous. His comrades shook hands withhim and left him with a melancholy foreboding.The company marched hack, and waited the eventin the guard-house.An hour had elapsed, and every ear was uponthe rack for the discharge of the musket, when,upon a sudden, the report was heard. The guardimmediately marched, accompanied, as before, bythe Colonel, and some of the most experiencedofficers of the regiment. As they approached thepost, they saw the man advancing towards them,dragging another man on the ground by the hairof his head. When they came up to him itappeared to be an Indian whom he had shot. Anexplanation was immediately required.“I told your honour,” said the man, “that Ishould lire if 1 heard the least noise. The resolu- 'tton I have taken has saved my life. I had notbeen long on my post when I heard a rustling atsome short distance; I looked and saw an Americanhog, such as are common in the woods, crawlingalong the ground, and seemingly looking for nutsunder the trees and among the leaves. As theseanimals are so very common, I Ceased to considerit for some minutes ; but being on the constantalarm and expectation of attack, and scarcely know¬ing what was to be considered a real cause of ap¬prehension, I kept my eyes vigilantly fixed upon it,and marked its progress among the trees; still therewas no need to give the alarm, and my thoughtsWere directed to danger from Another quarter. Itstruck me, however, as somewhat singular, to seethis animal making, by a circuitous passage, for athick coppice immediately behind my post. I there¬fore kept my eye constantly fixed upon it, and as itwas now within a few yards of the coppice, hesitatedwhether I should not fire. My comrades, thoughtI, would laugh at me for alarming them by shootinga pig. I had almost resolved to let it alone, when,just as it approached the thicket, I thought I ob¬served it give an unusual spring. 1 no longer hesi -tated ; I took my aim : discharged my piece ; andthe animal was instantly stretched before me witha groan which I conceived to be that of a humancreature. I went up to it, and judge my astonish¬ment, when I found that I had killed an Indian.He had enveloped himself with the skin of one ofthose wild hogs so artfully and completely; hishands and feet were so entirely concealed in it, andhis gait and appearance so exactly correspondentto that of the animal, that, imperfectly as theywere always seen through the trees and jungles,the disguise could not be penetrated at a distance,and scarcely be discovered upon the nearest aspect.He was armed with a dagger and a tomahawk.”Such was the substance of this man’s relation.The cause of the disappearance of the other senti¬nels was now apparent. The Indians, sheltered inthis disguise, secreted themselves in the coppice;watched the moment when they could throw it off ;hurst upon the sentinels without previous alarm,and too quick to give them art opportunity to dis¬charge their pieces, either stabbed or scalped them,and bore their bodies away, which they concealedat some distance among the leaves. The Americansgave them rewards for every scalp of an enemywhich they brought. Whatever circumstances ofwonder may appear in the present relation, thereare many now alive who can attest its authenticity.21THE COUNTRY SCHOOLMASTER.A Country Schoolmaster, high Jonas Bell,Once undertook of little souls,To furnish up their jobbernowls—In other words, he taught them how to spell,And well adapted to the task was Bell,Whose iron visage measur’d half an ell:W ith huge proboscis, and eye-brows of soot,Arm’d at the jowl just like a boar.And when he gave an angry roar,The little schoolboys stood like fishes mute.Poor Jonas, tho’ a patient man as Job,Yet still, like Job, was sometimes heard to growl,Was by a scholar’s adamantine nod.Beyond all patience graveil’d to the soul,I question whether Jonas in the FishDid ever diet on a bitterer dish.Twas thus—a lady who supported Bell,Came unexpectedly to hear them spellThe pupil fix’d on by this pedagogue,Her son, a little round fac’d ruddy rogueWho thus letters on the table laid—M. I. L. K,—and paused—“Well, sir, whatsthat?”“ I cannot tell,” the boy all trembling said,—“ Not tell, you little blind and stupid brat,“ Not tell,” roar’d Jonas, in a violent rage,And quick prepar’d an angry war to wage. ,“ Tell me this instant, or I’ll flay tffyv'hkfoVj“ Come, Sir,“ Dost thou this birchen weapon see ?“ Wliat puts thy mother in her tea?”With lifted eyes the quaking rogue reply’d,“ RUM, Sir...”THE END.