YD£THECOMICAL HISTORYOFSIMPLE JOHNAND HISJJ TWELVE MISFORTUNES,WHICH HAPFF.NED ALL IN TWELVE DAVS AFTER THESi t’NHAPPY DAY OF HIS MARP.lAGE.£.D£PAISLEY :PRIMED BV CALDWELL AND S>ON, 2, NF.W STRF.ET.1839.^451COQ©Q4SVOQ45VDQ/1510»' '..>i . •\-.v,.'-o, '.   THE COMICAL HISTORYOFSIMPLE: JOHN.Simple John was a widow’s son, and acoarse country weaver to hi« trade : He madenothing but such as canvass for caff beds, cornand coal sacks, drugget and harn was the fin¬est webs he could lay his lingers to : he was agreat lump of a lang lean lad aboon sax feetafore he was aughteen year auld, and as hesaid himsel’, he grew sae fast, and was in sica hurry to be high, that he did not stay tobring a’ his judgement with him, bnt yet hehoped it would follow him, and he would meetwi’t, as mony a ane does after they’r married.He had but ae sister, and she had as littlesense as himsel’, she was married on Sleeky4Willie the wilie weaver, his mother was arattling rattle scull’d wdfe and they lived a’in as house and every body held them as afamily of fools. When John came to man’sstate, to the age of twenty one years, he toldhis mither, he would hae a wife of some sort,either young or auld, widow or lass, if theyhad but head and hips, tongue and tail, heshould take them, and weel a wat mither,quoth he, they’ll get a lumping penny-wortho’ me, tak me wha will.H is mither tells him o’ the black butcheron Tivot side, who had three daughters, andevery ane o’ them had something, there wasKate, Ann, and Girzy, had hundred merksthe piece, Kate, and Ann had baith bastards,Girzy the eldest had a humph back, a high-breast, baker-legged, a short wry neck, thrawnmouth, and goggle-ey’d a perfect iEsop of thefemale kind with as many crooked conditionswithin as without, a very lump of !oun-like ill-nature, row’d a’ thegither, as if she had beennine months in a haggies, a second edition ofcrook backed Kichard the old English King,that was born with teeth to bite a’ around a-botit him, and yet the wight gaed mad to bemarried.John’s mither told him the road where togo, and what to say, and accordingly he setsout vvi’ his Sunday’s coat on, and a’ his braws,and a pair of new piilonian breeks o’his anther’smaking. In he comes, and tell’d his errandbefore he would sit down, says good day toyou goodman, what are ye a’ doing here ; Iam wanting a wife, an ye’re a flesher, and hasa gude sorting aside you, my mither says youcan sair me, or ony body like me, what say yetill’t gudeman ? How mony doughters haeye ? Are they a’ married yet ? I fain wad taka look o’ some o’ them gin ye like.A wow, said the goodwife, come in by, hon¬est lad, and rest ye, an ye be a wooer, sitdown and gie’s a snuff.— A deed goodwife, Ihae nae mills but my mither’s, and it’s athame.—whare win ye, I’s no ken ye? I vvat,quoth he, my name’s Jock Sandyman, theyca’ me Simple John the sack weaver 1 hae naetocher but my loom, a pirn-wheel, a kettle pat,a brass pan, twa pigs, four cogs, and a candle¬stick, a good cock, a cat, twa errocks new be¬gun to lay; my sister Sara is married onSleeky Willie the wylie weaver, and I maunhae a hagwife or my mither die, for trulyshe’s very frail, and ony harl o’ health she has13 about dinner-time; what say ye till’t good-man can you buckle me or no ?Goodman.) A dear John, ye’re in an uncohaste, ye wadna hae your wife hame wi’ ye?they’re a’ three before ye, which o’ them willyo tak ?Hout, tout says John, ony o’ them will sairme, but my mither says there’s twa o’ themhas fauts. And what is their fauts? said thegoodwife. Hout said John, it’s no meiklefaut, but I dinna like it, they got men or theywere married. And what shall I do wi’ them?said the goodman.John.) A deed, goodman, ag ye’re ay deal¬ing among dead beasts and living beasts, Iwad put them awa amang ither beasts, or ginye be aun ony penny, let somebody tak themup o’ desperate debt, I sud die the fykes fraethem, they anger’d you and shamed you baithwi’ their bastards, a wheen daft jades it getsmen or they be married, and bairns, orget bridals.Goodwife.) A wat weel that’s true lad.Girzy.) A weel John then, will ye tak me ;I hae nae bastards ; how will you and I do ?John.) I watna gin you be able to get abastard, yet ye may Iwe some waur faut; but7ye maun be my pennyworth for ye’re uncolittle, and I’m o’er muckle, and gin ye and fwere ance carded through ither, we may getbonny weans of a middlen mak. I have naefauts to ye, but ye hae a high breast, a humphback, a short neck, and high shouthers thehands and legs may do, tho’ your mouth be awee to the tae side, it will lie weel to the rock,and I hae a hantle of tow to spin, will bebaith sarks and sacks till us, ye’ll be my soncydauty up and down, a perfect beauty wi’ cat’syellow een, black brows, and red lips, andyour very nose is a purpy colour; ye hae naefauts at a’, Now, whan will ye be married ;Girzy-) Ha, ha, John lad, we manna thinkon that yet.John.) What the yeltow lass, should na yebe ready whan I’m ready, and every body says,that the women’s ay ready.Goodman.) Ye’ll hae to come back andbring somebody wi’ you, and we’ll gree aboutit, and set the day whan ye’ll be married.John.) A weel, goodman, I’ll tell mymither o’t, and come back on Mononday, andwe’ll hae a chapin o’ ale, and roasted cheeseon the chance o’t: but I maun hae a word o’ethe bride out by to convey me, an a quitespeak to hersel about if.Goodwife.) A wow na, John, the daft lounswill laugh at you, and she’ll think shame,gang ye out by, and she’ll speak to youthrough the gavel window.Out goes John, and the bride and her twasisters, goes to the window within to hear thediversion, and what I13 would say. Now, saysJohn, Giizy my dear, my braw pretty woman,an ye be in earnest, tell me, for by my suthI’m no scorning.Girzy.) Indeed, John, I’m very willing totak ye, but ye necdna tell every body aboutit.John.) Then gie me a kiss on that. Heshoves his head in at the window, making alang neck to win down to her, and she stoodon a little stool to win up to him. O, crieshe, an you were good flesh I could eat ye a’.1 like ye sae wed, if ' a pity there is sic ahard vva’ atween us, I’se tell my mither saebonny as ye’re: O! gie me anither kiss yet,and then I’ll go. One of her sisters standingby in a dark corner gets ha’d o’ a cow’s head,which wanted a’ the skin but about the mouth,and shuts it out towards his mouth, which heI9kiss’d in the dark. O cries he, but yourmouth be cauld since I kiss’d ye last, and Ithink ye ha’e a beard, I saw nae that afore,or is’t wi’ spinning tow, that makes yourmouth sae rough at e’en ?Hame he comes, and tells his mither thespeed and pioperties of the marriage A’ thingwas got ready, and next week Sleeky Williethe weaver and him c^.me to gree the mar¬riage, and stay a’ night wi’ the bride, andteach John good manners, for whan John washungry he minded his meat mair than hisgood behaviour, and he never was fu’ till thedish was tume. Willie the weaver was totramp on his fit, when he thought he had sup-pit aneugh ; so all things being agreed uponshort and easy terms, and the wedding dayset, they were to be three times cried onSunday, and quietly married on Mononday,neither piper nor fiddler to be employed, butswith awa hame frae the Minister, and intothe bed amang the blankets j Ha, ha, criesJohn, that’s the best o’t a’.Now every thing being concluded and pro¬posed, the supper was brought, a large fatbaggies, the very smell wad a done a hungrybody gude, but John had only got twa or10three soups, until one of the butcher’s meikledogs tramping on John’s fit, which he took tobe the weaver, and then ne would sup naemair. After supper they went to bed Johnand the weaver lay together, and then heabused the weaver for tramping sae soon whichhe denied ; but O, said John, theie’s a hantleo’t left and I saw whare it was set, they’re a’sleeping, I’ll go rise an tsak a soup o’t yet, andbring a soup to me too. Away then Johngoes to the amry, and lays to the haggles, tillhis ain haggles could baud nae mair; thenbrings the rest to Sleeky Willie, but insteadof going to the bed where he was, goes to thebed where the bride and her twa sisters lay,they being fast asleep, speaks slowly, wiil yetak it, will ye tak it? but they making noanswer, he tnrns up the blankets to put a soupinto Willie’s mouth, but instead of doing so,he puts a great spoonful close into one of theirbacksides. Sleeky Willie hears all that past,comes out the b^d, and sups out the remainder,and sets up the dish where it was leaves theamry door open, to let the cats get the blameof supping the baggies, and awa they go tobed ; but poor John could get nae sleep fordrouth j up he gets in search of the water11rcann, and finding an empty pitcher, puts inhis hand to find if their was any water in it,but finding none, lie closed his hand ,wben itwas within the pitcher, and then could notget it out, goes to the bed and tel hi SleekyWillie what had happened him, who advisedhim to open the door, and go out to a knock¬ing stane that stood before the door, and breakit there, to get out Ins hand’ and net to makea noise in the bouse. So eut he goes, andthe bride’s sister who had gotten the gre*k. (spoonful of the haggles laid to her backside,was out before him, rubbrng the nastiness, (^sshe took it to he,) off the tail of her sank, slb«1she being in a looting posture, ha took her ferthe knocking stane, and comes ever her hsi'd-ies with the pitcher, till ‘it flew in jpieeesthen off she runs with fright, round a t'U'ifstack, and into the house before him, Johncame in trembling to the bed again wP thefright, praying to preserve him, for sic aknocking-stane he never yet saw for it ran {' clean awa when he brake the pig upon’t.Now John was furnished in a house by hisfather-in-law, the bed, the loom, heddles,treadles, fehrumbs reeds, and pirn-wheel, wasa’ brought and set up before the marriage,12which was kept a profound secret; so thatJohn got the first night of his ain wife, andhis ain house at ae time. So on the nextmorning after the marriage, John and his wifemade up some articles, how they were to work,and keep house: John was to keep the housein meat, meal, fire and water; Girzy was tomak the meat, and keep the house in clothes;the father-in-law to pay the rent for threeyears ; they were to hae nae servants, untilthey had children ; and their first child wasto be John, after his ain Daddy get it whswill, if a boy, and if a girl, Grizy, after its ainMinny, as he said, wha had wrought bestfor’t.MISFORTUNE 1.THEN she ordered John to rise and beginhis wark, by putting on a fire, and to tak ihetwa new pigs and gang to the well for water.No sooner had John opened the door, andgone out with a pig in every hand, than a’ theboys and girls being gathered in a crowd tosee him, gave a loud huzza and clapping their13hands at him, poor John not knowing what itmeant, thought it was fine sport, began to claphis hands too, and not minding the twa pigs,clashes the tane against the tither, till baithwent to pieces, and that was it cheerful huzzato baith young and auld that was looking athim ; Girzel the wife draws him into the house,and to him she flies with the wicked wife’sweapons, and made his ribs to crack, saying,“They told me ye was daft, but I’ll ding thedaffin’ out o’ ye, I’ll begin wt’ ye as l havea mind to end wi’ ye. Foor John sat cryingand clawing his lugs. “Ha ha,’’ said he, “it’anae bairns play to be married, I find that al¬ready.” His Mither-in-law came in andmade up peace, went to a atooper, and gotthem a big wooden stoup to carry in theirwater.MISFORTUNE. 11Next morning John was sent to the flesh-market an errand to his Father-in-law, whogave him a piece of flesh to carry home, andas he was coming out of the Market, he saw14six or seven of the flesher-dogs fall on andworry at a poor country colly dog;“ Justice,Justice, cries John to the dogs, “ye’re but awheen unmanerly rascals, that fa’s a’ on aepoor bea t, heth ye sude a’ be put in the tou-bouth, and ta’en to the bailies, and hang’d forthe like o’ that; it’s perfect murder, “and inhe runs amongst the dogs, “and be hang’d toyou a’ thegither, What is the quarrel ? Whatis the quarrel? John flings down the flesh hehad carrying, and grips the colly, who tookJohn for an enemy too, and bites his hands tillthe blood followed,the whole of the tykes comeson poor John, til! down he goes in the dirt a-mongst their feet, and one of the dogs runsoff with his flesh, so John went hame bothdirty and bloody and without his flesh, toldGirzy how it happened, who applied her oldplaister, her Tangs and Tongue, made Johnto curse the very Minister that married them,and wished he might ne’er do a better turn.MISFORTUNE. IllNext morning, John wras sent to the wellwith the great stoup to bring in water for15breakfast; and as he was pulling t&e stoup outof the well, in he tumbles and his head down,the well being natrow, he eould na win out:some people passing, by chance, heard theslunge cried, and ran to his relief, haul’d himout half dead, and helped him into the house ;and get.ing a dry sark, he was comforted witlithe old plaister, her longue a»d the hardTangs.MISFORTUNE IV.Next day, she says, John, I must g© to themarket myself, for if you go you’M fight wi’the dogs, and let them run away wi’ ony thingyou buy : see that ye put on the pat, Kae’tboiling gin l come hame. John promisedweel, but performs very badly. She’s no soon¬er gone, than he pats on the new pat, withoutany water in it, and a good fire to make itboil, and away he goes to the unhappy well,fills his stoop and sets it down to look at aparcel of boys playing at cat and dog they per¬suaded John to take a game wi’ them, on heplays, till ane o’ the boys cries Hey John yon-ders your Girzy comiirg. John runs into thehouse wi’ the water, and the pat being red hoton the fire, he tumes in the cauld water intoit, which made the pat flee all in pieces, justas she was entering the door. John runs forit, and she runs after him, crying, Catch thethief some person stopped him ; she comes up,and then she laboured him all the way hame,and he crying, “O Sirs, ye see what it is tobe married! The Mither-in-lavv had to mak uppeace again, and he promised good behaviourin time to come.MISFORTUNE V.On the next morning she sent him to thewater to wash some cow’s puddings, and turnthem on a spindle, shewing him how he wasto do or he went away. John goes to thewater very willingly, and as he turned andwashed them, he iaid them down behind him,where one of his Father-in-law’s big dogs stoodand ate them up as fast as he laid them down,fill all was gone but the very last ane, whichhe carried hame in his hand, eryi»g like achild, and underwent a severe tost qf the eldplaister before any mercy was shewn.MISFORTUNE VI.His Father-in-law, next day, sent him awayto bring home a fat calf he had bought in thecountry, and tied up the money in a napkin,which he carried in his hand for fear he shouldlose it, Being very weighty as it was all inhalfpence, and as he was going alongst abridge, he meets a man running after a horse,who cries to John to stop the horse; Johnmeets him on the top of the bridge, and whenhe would not be sto ped for him, he knocksthe horse on the face with the napkin and themoney, so the napkin rave, and most of thehalfpence dew over the bridge in the water,which made poor John go home crying verybitterly for his loss, and dread of the old plais.ter, which he got very sickerly.135MISFORTUNE Vll.On the next morning, she sent him againto the bridge, to see if he could find any of itin the water, and there he found some ducksswimming and ducking down with their headsbelow the water, as he thonght, gathering uphis money, he kills one of them, and rips herup, but foand none of it in her guts or gabbie ;then says he, they have been but looking forit. I’ll go do as they did ; strips offliis clothesand leaves them on the bridge, goes in a duck¬ing, in which time, a rag-man came past, andtook away all his clothes. So he went homenaked to get a bath of the old plaister.MISFORTUNE VlllThe next morning she sent him to a farm¬house, for a pig-fwl of butter-milk and as hewas returning through the fields, the farmer’sbull and another bull was fighting : the farm¬er’s bull being like to lose, John luns in be¬hind him, and sets his head to the bull’s tail,en parpose to help him to push against theother; but the poor bull thought John wassome other bull attacking him behind, fled,aside, and the other bull came full driveupon John, pushed him down broke the pig,and spilt the milk. So John went hame toget his auld plaister, which began to be ausual diet to him, and so he regarded it theless.MISFORTUNE IX.H is mother-in-law, with several auld wittywives, held a private council on John’s conrduct, and bad luck, and concluded he was be¬witched. John was of the same opinion, andwent to the Minister, and told him he was thecause of a’ his misfortunes, ca‘d him a war-lock to his face, and said, he had put such ablack bargain, in his hand, that he was ruinedfor ever, insisted either to unmarry them again,or send death and the bellman to take herawa, for she was a lump of mischief on herback and anither on her breast, and the resto’ her body is a clean deil. The Ministersobegan to exhort him to peace and patience,telling him that marriages were made inheaven : “Ye’re a baist liar, says John for I,was married in your ain kitchen, and a’ theblackguards in the town was there, an it had abeen a heaven they wadna win in, ye tellt methat matrimony was sic a happy state, but hadye gotten as money weel pay’d skins as I haegotten, ye wad a kend what it is, ill chance onyou sir; and out he goes, cursing like a mad¬man, throwing stanes and breaking the Min¬ister’s windows, for which he was catcht andput tvva hours in the stocks, end at last hislump of corruption came and rubbed his lugs,threw his nose, got him out, and drove himhome before her, took a resolution never toset him about any business in time coming,but keep him on his loom.MISFORTUNE X.Now she gave him no sleep all that nightfor scolding. John got up in the morninglang or day and left his Tormentor in bed,f*ll asleep upon his loom with the candle in21his hand, and so set the weh, heddlea, reedand treadle cords in fire, by chance his oldVi :er looked out of the bed, or the wholehouse had been gone. Up she got, and withher cries alarmed the neighbourhood whocame to her relief; but poor John under¬went a dreadful swabbing for this.MISFORTUNE Xl.After the former hurry and beating beingover, his wark being stopt, he went to bed andslept a’ that day, and following night. On thenext day, having nothing to do, she sent himin search of a hen’s nest, which had ta’ensome by.place to lay her eggs in : so as poorJohn was in an auld kill searching a' aboutthe walls, the kill ribs brake and down he goeswith a vengeance into the logic, eutted andbruised himself in a terrible manner; up hecould not win, but had to creep out at thelogie below, scarce able to get hame, his faceand nose a’ running o’ blood, In this condition,she pitied and lamented for him very much,teid his sores and laid him in bed ; then sat2JtJown r«ry kimlly, saying, “My dear and mylamb, do ye think theare is ony o’ yonr banesbroken ? and what part o’ you is sairest: andwhat wiil I get to do good ?” “Oh !’’ said he,“Girzy, I’m a’ brizzled atweeu the feet,*’“Are ye indeed/’ quoth she, “then I wishyou had breken your neck, that I might a got¬ten anither, useless ae way, and useless maeways, upon my word, ye’s no be here, gangwhare ye likfe.”MISFORTZ7NE XJ1.Now as poor John was turned out o’ doorsnext morning, to go awa hirpling on a staff,one came and told him his mother had diedlast night. On hoch ! said John, and is mymither clean dead! O an she wad but lookdown through the lift, and see how I’m guid¬ed this morning, I’m sure she wad send Deathfor me too. I’m out o’ a mither and out o’ awife, out o’ my health & strength, and a’ mywarklooms.” His Mother-in law came andpleaded for him: “Haud your tongue,Mither,” said Girzy, if ye kend what ail’dhim, ye wadna speak about him he’s uselessno worth the keeping in a house, but to ca’him to die like an auld beast at a dykeside.Hout, tout, co’ the auld wife, we’ll mak o’him and he’ll mend again. So John got peacemade up after all, and he was easier mendedthan the burnt wTeb, got all his tradles andwarklooms set in order, the wifes tongue ex¬cepted, which was made of wormwood, andthe rest of her body of sea water, which is al¬ways in a continual tempest.So John apeals to a Jedburgh Jury if it benot easier to deal wi’ fools than headstrongfashious fouks; owns he has but an emptyskull, but his wicked wife wants wit to pourjudgement into it, never tells him o’ dangertill it comes upon him, for his mother said hewas a biddable bairn, if ony body had been tolearn him wit.'oO oi "3ncf jOznoif « u; ^rri: (&pvr enU ‘od .t;r) -'s:t£"; • :.i-y.3 au^noj ?oa.7 sjfi ni ics r.n •:br^-;;.v/J)pQ7/Taiov; “iu cLarn e;r‘; iS 'tiso?rob'8; fi.'.i'V t-:oU/;i v:.ccl ♦iprl io 5oSi-cr>cJ iili ^u.i' ; a.' L 08'j>fro;:!2r::cn. Kra'; r'jc. ‘iv; h.ga\: : r-.;:vj;;r 3 an in;' et:! oil 2 0. '1 ''»;:;{j '0 irnid n’ioj r:v.:{ ,3] oj:; ir; r; r •c:I 1:128 TOr'ic-m C'fj •Jfj'l tn;i . aery ; r.p .c, I;; ' vr