MARYL E MORE,ALamentable Irifli Song,To which is Added,George u the Mildefl King,0»A New Touch on the Times.Stirling Printed by C. Randall,M ARY LE MORE.r Tune,—Poor Exile of Erin.— ^ #0000 ^ ■ iPART I.! Soldier* of England, your mercilef? doingsLong, long may the children of Ireland deplore ;Sad links my loul when I view the black ruins.Where once ftood *he e- bin of Mary le More.Herfather God reft him lov’dlreiand moft dearly!Allits wrongs, all hs fuff rir gs, hefeltmoft feverely.And with freedom’s firm fons he united fincerelyjBut gone is the father of Mary le More /One cold winter’s eve, as poor Dermot was mufing,Hoarle curies alarm’d him,and cralh went hisdooi!The fierce foldiers enter’d & ftraight ’gan abulxngThe brave, but mild father of Mary !e More !To their feoffs he repl ed [rot — with blows theyassail’d him—Indignant he rofe, and hi? caution now fail’d himf*He return'd thdr vile blows—now all Munftejbewails him—For ftab'd was the-'father of Mary le More.The childrens’ wild, fereams, and the mother s ditraction,While the hufband—the father—lay ffretch’d ihis gore !oAh! who can defcribe, & not curfe the vile b&lo-That blafted that role bud fweet Mary le MoreMy father! my father! (he cried, wildly thrown)Her arms round his neck, while his life ftreanwere fiowirg !She kifs’d his pale cheeks, but poor Dermot wzgoing;He groan’d, and left iatherlefs Mary le MorFrom her father’s pale cheeks, which her lap hfupported,To an out hou fe the ruffians the lovely maid boWith her pray’rs her intreatie?, her forrows tifported.And by force they deflow’red fweet Mary le MeAnd now a poor maniac (lie roams the wild comm’Gainft the foldiers of England (lie warns e^woman ;And fings of her father in drains more than hunTill tears often flow from poor Mary le Mor'PART II.I ftray’d o’er the common on Cork’s ruborder,While the dew-drops of morn the pale priiarray’d.I faw a poor female, whofe mental diforderHex quick-glancing eye arid wild afpeft betraOn the f*ard flie reclin’d, by the green fern fur-,1 rounded ;At her fide fpeckled dailies and crow-flowerabounded;o its inmofl recces her heart had been wounded ;-tier fighs were unceafing—’l was Mary le More.er charms by the keen blaft of forrow were faded;Utthe foft tinge of-beauty ftill play’d on hercheek;“r a w/eath of pale primrofes braibed,tnd firings of frefh daifies hung loofe on her neck,hile with pity I gaz’d, the exclu im’d, “ O mymother !See the blood on that lafh, ’tis the blood of mybrother fIhey have torn his poor flefh, tnd they now'fir ip another;Tis Connor, the friend of poor Mary le More.bo’ his locks were as white as the foam of theocean,Thofe wretches fhall find that my father isbrave ;y father f ’ the cried, with the wildcft emotion!i. no, my poor father now fleeps in the grave*ey have toll’d his death bell, they have laidthe turf o t r him;5 white lecka were blocdy, no aid could icftorehim ;.is gone ! he is gone ! and the good will deplo¬re him,en the blue wave of Erin hides Mary le Mofe,A lark from the gold-WoflWd furzo that »reWXT near ^Now r°fe, and with cncrffvcarofIM?,- i** Hu£h I hufh I’f a caral d h7s lay :LnH TitinU'd> “ the trumpet• “Thfla r *0unds clearer; 1i it a i . nin^,• vc*-fm w a:> uur-« GoWd^ IFrhthc^fr 3 Wretchhad been mcun ingUhthc fta^ew, ) e maids, and takettrni_, _ warmrer.j ° Tho/e ruffians have'ruhay^poor Mary le More.“ Alas ! my poor0broXnt !0 G~fcctbofe g^eW“Anon, we’U Jiv. ei lOotnc dry the br; tear;■c 75?'““ thole dreadful* A T j i 'dihCS j“ By day3the ^ Wear ,f With Wild loners nTr^ U$ U,ndcr lhe W)1Iovr»1 rill the c°ZC currd^? fta'wecd> b^neata thel* Shall furnifh a death-bed^for Mary ie More, ”:!lUS rav’d the poor maniac I.Than fariitv’srending»m tones more-heart.L W'bentgf,r ”-h “-’rdrA troop of fierce cavalry cd,,4^ ohanc d to appear ;6ra• « O the fiends !” flie exclaim’d, and with, wild hdr-er.ror ftartedThen through the tall fein, loudly fereaming, fixedarted, IWith an oterchang’d bofom l flowly departed,And fxghd for the wrongs of poor Mary le More. 'S,Ir,7tetrhGEORGE 13 THE MILDEST KINGO RA New Touch on the Times.(jt EORGE he is the mild eft Kingthat ever lat on Britain’s throne ;Behold how wifely he has afted,to his fubje£te cv’ry one !But we’re of a rebellious nature,and our minds are ne’er content;Likewife, the moft ot cur reflectionsare on the King and Parliament.1'here’s I^rakers, New-Tights Independents,. Mtthoclit;|;dndi Swindlers too,Thofe minions and fanatics,:, are they not a filthy crew ?Thofe hypocrites th?t%re amongft us,our religion tlxey delpife,Empty fools, without fpqrniatiop,neither^ loyal, ner ^ilb.!B7-'•i.v*Our Church-men they are 1’rtle better,if the truth it- vere w 11 lcno«vn,They take the King for Britain’s head,-but part of his lavrs they will not own.Brotherly love is out of fafhion,neighbours ther cannot agree ;They fpen «. their money at the law,and bring themfelves to poverty.By racking, fharping, and deceiving,’tis hard to find a man that’s juftBecaufe they feldom find the wayto pay the thing they take in truft.There’s dice-men, fhow-men, mounting failorspeople pretending to be dumb.Fortune-teller^, and quack doftors,by fuch vagrants we’re undone.Foreigners we do encourage,ay, dear neighbour, this is truth ;Good Scots ale and highland whiikyhath no relilh m our mouth*Brandy and rum we choofe to drink,and many cofTv things befide,1 here’s nothing that appears amongUU3but perfect poverty and pride.Now obferve the pride of woir-o,who they walk widi futh^n air.iAt/| 8 .^ With ribbons, ruffles, rings and fans,^ capuchins, and foreheads bare.i’Our lervant-maids they are fo proud,thsv do referable their Ladies nesr,Fhev have fo many madiike dreffes,. the; fcarce can tell now what to wear.<*a;nts and patches for their faces,, in the fafliion they muft he,t 'he poorf ft wife in all the townj each morning fhe muft drink her teaji *ur men are grown fo void of reafon,they often leave their wedded wives,. 'hufing rather to keep a Mifs,they're wearied of the married life.Ifotnen for to have their hufbands,| is not that a double iin ?nought bring us on a judgement,and confume the land we're in., • grant us peace and unity,[ for row the world feems at an end-;hen each oie hates and cheat another,ye a, tho’ h: were his near friend.FINIS.‘t