1<THEi®tj)Steriou8 Cabern,AN HISTORICAL ROMANCEOF THE• -FOURTEENTH CENTURY.“ This is a sight, that, like the Gorgon’s head,“ Runs through my limhs, and stiffens me to stone!“ My soul is wrapp’d in dreadful expectation,“ And listens to thee, as if Fate were speaking.”Drydsn.EDINBURGH:Published by OLIVER & BOYD, High Street.Price Sixpence.1.-THEMYSTERIOUS CAVERN.The battle of Poictiers had thrown all France in¬to mourning; the king was taken captive by theEnglish, and Charles de Valois, Duke of Nor¬mandy (who had just taken the title of Dauphin),was declared Regent. The character of Charleswas by no means calculated to please the nation,and the comparisons that were made, between himand his happy and brilliant rival, Edward III.greatly sunk him in its esteem.Charles D’Evreux, King of Navarre, was theenemy whom the nation had the greatest reasonto dread. His quality, as Prince of the blood,ought to have made him the supporter of theI throne ; but fate had destined him to be itsscourge.The Count de Nevers and the Seur de Joinville,were irreproachable for their principles and con¬duct. Although the Regent was not particularlyattached to any nobleman, yet he always distin¬guished these two young lords, whose loyalty andcourage recalled to mind, in times of corruption4and cowardice, the character of their ancient he¬roes ; whilst, uniting the past with the present,they equalled the most polished courtiers in theelegance of their accomplishments, and the grace¬fulness of their manners.The Count de Nevers had hardly known hisparents. They died during his infancy. Themother of the Seur de Joinville had educated him,with her son and daughter, at one of the principalestates, whither she had retired after the death ofher husband, who was killed at the naval battle ofEcluse. The Count de Nevers was the only sonof Madame de Joinville’s brother. The tenderfriendship, which, from their infancy, had unitedthe Count de Nevers and the Seur de Joinville,made them desire to resemble each other, thoughnature had formed a very great contrast in theirminds; yet thinking the conformity of their vir¬tues was of no less use to them than the opposi¬tion of their characters. The Count de Neverswas born with that extreme sensibility, which isalways the cause of much uneasiness to its pos¬sessor. The Seur de Joinville’s mind, though na¬turally just, was austere and thoughtful, and wasone of those, who, thinking themselves incapa¬ble of error, have no indulgence for the failingsof another: for the heart is rendered callous bythis too great strictness, which extinguishes sen¬sibility, and repulses confidence.On their entrance into the world, to the unitedadvantages of illustrious birth, a large fortune,and handsome persons, they added all the qualitiesto make them useful and amiable members ofsociety.The war soon afforded them an opportunity oidistinguishing themselves. After numberless ac¬tions of valour, they were taken prisoners with5King John at the battle of Poictiers; and everyday the young Regent regretted more and moretheir absence, at a time when, surrounded by somany traitors, their fidelity would have been use¬ful to him. Thinking to gain the affection of thepublic, by drawing together the different ranks ofsocietv, he rendered his access easier than had for¬merly been known under the best kings of France.Instead of that commanding etiquette, supposed to beso necessary to sovereign majesty, he substitutedsocial familiarity ; and the citizens as well as thenobility, were invited to the brilliant/etes given athis palace. This mixture of society increased thedangerous popularity of the King of Navarre.He knew it, and appeared at one of those fetesunadorned, and with the sole advantages he deriv¬ed from nature. His.elegant, yet simple and un¬affected manners, were suited to every station; andhis melancholy appearance formed a striking con¬trast with the gaiety of the court, and made himmore remarkable and interesting in the eyes ofthose he wished to corrupt. One of the mostbeautiful ladies of the court asked him, en passant,if he would not dance :—instead of answering thiskind of invitation, he pretended not to hear her,and sat down next Mai'cel, the provost of the mer¬chants, and flattered for some time his selfish prideand turbulent spirit. Marcel remarked^ that hewas surprised his highness could refuse so muchbeauty, and since so noble a lady was denied, sure-siy no other in the room would be able to prevailon his highness to dance. The King of Navarrereplied: It is thus he loved to humble the proudfemale, who presumed to solicit the honour of hishand; but if the provost had any relation here, itwould be with her he would wish to dance. Mar¬cel informed his highness that he had a niece inA 26the room, and he immediately bade Alice approach,and take off her mask.Alice took off her mask, and the .King of Na¬varre was amazed. His astonishment and admir¬ation were so evident, that Alice instantly perceiv¬ed the impression she had made upon him; butthis young person did not seem to be the leastproud of her brilliant conquest, whilst the factiousprince gave himself up to a sentiment so suddenand extreme, that, forgetting all the projects whichhad brought him to i\\e fete, he only thought of se¬ducing the beautiful and engaging Alice. Witha smile he led her forth to dance. He expectedthat Alice would be very much confused; he there¬fore paid her the most flattering attentions, notonly before the whole court, but likewise in thesight of all the citizens who were in the room.Hut his hopes were baffled—Alice danced witha prince of the blood, with a king, without beingthe least disconcerted.1—and she did not appearto be flattered by the praises which he bestowedon her beauty, and on the majestic and graceful airwith which she danced.He was as much delighted with the sense aswith die beauty of Alice, and was persuaded thathe should at last succeed, when a bustle in theroom drew her attention. She appeared struckwith astonishment, on perceiving two young noble¬men by the side of the Regent, to whom that princelistened with the greatest attention. A deep blushoverspread her face, her eyes fixed on the objectof her attention, -and so absorbed was she by heremotions, that she no longer attended to what theKing of Navarre said to her, and answered onlyby monosyllables. Drawing from her bosom acase, she opened it, and looking at a miniature itcontained, suddenly shut it, and spoke as if to her-7self, “ It is he ! I am sure it is he I” Entirelyengaged with Alice, the King had not before per¬ceived the entrance of the young lords; but thestrange agitation of Alice, and the words—“ It ishe r which she repeated with redoubled emotion,having made him cast his eyes towards the placewhere her’s were stedfastly fixed. He appeared, inhis turn, struck with the greatest astonishment,and turning to Alice, he Said, with a severe andenquiring look—“ What is the cause of the extra¬ordinary agitation which the unexpected arrival ofthe Count de Nevers and the Seur de Joinville hascaused in you?”—“ Which of the two is the Countde Nevers ?” said Alice, in a trembling voice.The prince looked attentively at her without an¬swering. ‘'Speak,” resumed she, answer me—my life depends upon it—tell me which is he?”Charles told her, that he whom the Regent heldfyy the arm was the Count de Nevers.Scarcely had he said this, when a deadly palenessoverspread her face, and not a tr&ce was left ofthe brilliant colour that had animated her counte¬nance. “ Unfortunate,” said she, with an accentof horror, “ wretched girl, is it then true—can itbe the Count de Nevers ?” The King, astonished,eagerly asked her to inform him of the cause ofher agitation. Alice, without speaking, put onher mask, went to her uncle, and said she wishedto leave the ball. The questions of Marcel wereas unsuccessful as the King of Navarre’s. Alicewent to the door of the palace, and her uncle con¬ducted her home, without having obtained anyreason why she left, so abruptly, a place w here sheexperienced such flattering approbation, and re¬ceived pleasure.Struck with astonishment, and burning with*love and jealousy, the first care of tfip Kin^ ofA 38Navarre, after the departure of Alice, was to en¬deavour to obtain some information, as to thecause of the unexpected return of the Count deNevers and the Seur de Joinville to the court ofFrance, at the moment lie supposed them at Bour-deaux, prisoners to the Prince of Wales. Helearned, they were just arrived at court on theirparole, loaded with the favours of the Prince ofWales. This information only served to increaseIns agitation.The attractive Alice, and the jealousy with whichthe Count de Nevers had inspired him, only caus¬ed a part of his agitation ; his intriguing spirit.made him apprehend some interruption to his dia¬bolical schemes against the Regent, as also to see,with fury all that he promised himself from thebeauty, spirit, and character of Alice, transferredto another person, and that person the one fromwhom he feared an overthrow of his politicalviews. Determined to employ every possiblemeans that was in his power to satisfy his love,and to calm his ambitious fears, he instantly as¬sumed a disguise which had often been used byhis emissaries when sent on secret enter prises;and wrapping his head in a hood (then in use w iththe lower class of people), he went alone to Mar¬cel’s, where, in the secretary of this seditious ma¬gistrate, he had a creature devoted to his interests.This man was accustomed to receive, in the mid¬dle of the night, emissaries from the King of Na¬varre in this very disguise ; but what was hisastonishment, when he saw the prince’s head underthe hood!—“You, sir!” cried he: “Ah, is itpossible! have you been so happy as to destroyCharles de Valois !—and must I go and stir up thecity to rebellion ?” “ No,” said the King otNavarre, “ I have not destroyed the Regent—f9have lost a night :■—he is still safe, and at this moment conspires against the happiness of the peo¬ple.” He then mentioned to them, that the Countde Nevers and the Seur de Joinville, these twoyoung and steady supporters of tyranny—these en¬thusiastic adorers of the prerogatives of the crowm—were just arrived on their parole ; of the joyCharles de Valois displayed on their arrival, andthat.he had abruptly quitted the ball, and was nowshut up with them. The King of Navarre con¬cluded by saying, “ This is not all, Vaudois; Ihave not destroyed the Regent, but it is Alice wemust destroy.” Vaudois started, and grew pale.Turning to the King of Navarre, he enquired—“ Could no other method be adopted ?—Must theniece of Marcel also bleed ?” The King of Na¬varre shuddered. After a pause, he proposed, asthe only remedy for this danger, to prevent anyintercourse between Alice and the Count de Ne¬vers ; and the only way he could devise this was, toconvey her to one of his estates, where she shouldbe treated with the respect due to the niece ofMarcel. Vaudois objected to this scheme. Mar¬cel would never consent to such a measure; hewould sooner separate from his party than sacri¬fice her. The Iting of Navarre, wishing to knowher story, asked Vaudois to give him a detail ofher family.Vaudois told the King of Navarre, “ that Alicewras the daughter of a sister of Marcel’s, who wasmarried at Venice;—that her mother died in givingAlice birth, and she lost her father before she at¬tained the age of fifteen, who left her the sole pos¬sessor of immense riches he had acquired in theEast India trade. Immediately after the death ofher father, she arrived in Paris, accompaniedby an Italian lady, who had brought her up.—10It is said that this woman has an independentfortune, and that Alice’s father gave her an autho¬rity over lus daughter, at least equal to that ofMarcel. Her large fortune, her superior under¬standing, her placid and firm temper, causes Mar¬cel to submit in every tiling to her so implicitly—that he appears more like a principal domestic,than her relation and guardian. Marcel extendshis unaccountable deference even to Donna Vitto-ria, her governess, who resides with her, and wasnever known to dispute with her the authoritywhich she holds over her pupil. The extreme at¬tention he pays her, is the more extraordinary,as there is nothing prepossessing in this woman;she is still rather handsome, but silent, reserv¬ed, and observing. Donna Vittoria possesses theentire confidence of Alice, directs her in everything, and encourages her haughtiness and caprice.The eccentricity of Alice has been greatly encreasedby two years residence at the convent of Fonte-vraux, where she finished her education. Sinceher return, she will scarcely deign to speak to anyone; and it was with extreme difficulty, that Mar¬cel prevailed on her to accompany him to the fete,where you saw her.”Scarcely had Vaudois ceased speaking, when asudden noise was heard.,' They listened; it was aviolent knocking at the provost’s outer gate, andin the midst of the confusion of a thousand tumul¬tuous voices, the cry of “ Marcel! Marcel!” couldbe distinguished; and the name of the King ofNavarre was as often repeated. Astonished at thiscommotion of the populace, which was not ol hiscreating, and fearing to lose the fruits of it if hewere not present to direct,—yet not chusing thatMarcel should surprise him, in the middle of thenight, shut up disguised in his secretaiy’s chamber.11the King of Navarre sent Vaudois, to see if hecould leave the house without being perceived bythe mob, who filled the court of the provost.Vaudois, on his return, said it was impossibleto pass through the court without being seen bythe populace, but bade him follow him through aprivate door which led to the street. As soon asVaudois bad conveyed the King of Navarre out,he hastened to join the provost, whom he foundsurrounded by an enraged mob, the leader of whichhad just informed him, that the King of Navarrehad been carried off during the fde, which the lie-gent had given to render it more easily effected ;and insisted on Marcel instantly putting himself attheir head, and, in the name of the Parisians, de¬manding the release of their beloved prince, andthe punishment of those infamous courtiers, whohad dared to commit such an outrage against thesacred person of the protector of the people. Mar¬cel was going to speak, when the King of Navarresuddenly appeared in the midst of the crowd, ac¬companied by the Count de Nevers.The unexpected sight of the prince struck thepeople with astonishment and joy. A profoundsilence succeeded, however, to their first emotions.“ My friends,” said he, “ how shall I repay you ?What respect ought not I to feel for your energe¬tic attachment to those who defend your rights ?”A thousand cries rent the air with “ Long livethe. King of Navarre—long live the protector ofthe people.”During their intoxication, the King of Navarredrew the Count de Nevers aside. “ You havesaved my life,” said he to him; “ and I can makethat courageous action of great consequence in theeyes of a generous people, over whom you havejust seen my influence ; I can also reward you by12making you a partaker of my popularity——‘s You do not owe me any thing,” replied thecount; “ and I ret^iest your highness to forget it,and to limit the reward to the mere observance ofthe promise you gave me : disperse this seditiousmob, and treat them with the rigour such an infa¬mous set deserve.” Scarcely had the King of Na¬varre patience to attend to him. He cast on him alook of indignation and disdain. “ Rash youngman, (fare you insult me ?” These few words,which he pronounced with vehemence, drew thefury of the crowd upon the Count de Nevers.The hand, with which he attempted to draw hissword, was held by twenty arms, which deprivedhim of the use of it; and he would in an instanthave been cut to pieces, if the King of Navarrebad not cried out—“ My friends, be has saved mylife, and I demand bis, to render it useful to you.”Taking the Count by the arm, be conducted himthrough the submissive crowd, into a retired walkin Marcel’s garden, which was feebly enlightenedby the moon. The King of Navarre told himthey were now equal, as he had returned him theobligation he owed him—hie for life ; he must in¬stantly decide, whether he would be bis friend orvictim. The Count boldly told him, he never wouldbecome a traitor to his king or country, TheKing of Navarre" bade him reflect, that his life wasin his power, as he had only to say the word, anddeath was his doom The Count made no reply,hut contemplated the Prince with a look of defi¬ance. “ It is well—” exclaimed the enraged King ofNavarre ; but »■ remember, boy, I saved you fromthe fury of the people at the moment you insultedme. I shall have vengeance, and I will shew to thepopulace, now assembled, this poniard, which 1 willdeclare I wrested from your hand at the instant13you were going to plunge it into my heart; youwill be punished as the assassin of the King of Na¬varre, and every one will declare that you meritedyour fate.”He drew the poniard, and was walking towardsthe door that led from the garden, when a tall andmajestic woman, dressed in a long white robe, andher face covered with a veil, came from betweenthe trees. Seizing the arm of the King of Na¬varre,—“ Dare not touch the life of the Count deNevers,” said she, “ I stand in need of him; andI think the fear of his revealing the secrets of thisnight will not appear equal*to the danger of oppos¬ing my commands.” The King of Navarre, in asubmissive tone of voice, replied,—“ Never, ma¬dam, had I any idea of disobeying you. I willpreserve his life, and instantly convey him toa place of safety.” “ That care be mine,”said the lady: “ Return quietly to the crowd,whom you can disperse by a word ; but remember,let circumstances be what they may, that the lifeof the Court de Nevers must be saved. I haveoccasion for his services—let that be sufficient.”The King of Navarre departed without replying;and the lady approaching De Nevers, who stoodimmoveable with astonishment and curiosity,—“ Follow me,” said she, “ and rely implicitly onher who has just saved your life.” The Countbowed in silent wonder. His protectress then con¬ducted him into the ruins of a grotto, which ter¬minated the garden of Marcel. It was perfectlydark ; but the lady took hold of his hand, and, bycontinual turnings, contrived to make him avoidthe stones and fragments, which were scattered a-bout, and heaped up in different places.At last they arrived at the end of the grotto.She stopped at a passage, so low that they were14obliged to stoop, and almost creep along for sometime. The stranger knocked three times:—a doorwas opened, and shut as suddenly after they pass¬ed through it.The feeble light which struck the eyes of theCount, did not permit him to distinguish objects atfirst; but after he had taken a few steps, he per¬ceived they were preceded by a Negress, who car¬ried a vaze of dazzling whiteness, which, withoutletting any thing be seen clearly, spread a mildlight, something resembling that of the moon.After having proceeded a considerable way, theyarrived at another door, which the stranger opened >and shut herself; and the Count found himself ina kind of chapel, the strange decorations of whichmight have appalled him, had he not been on hisguard, from an expectation of seeing somethingextraordinary.A golden lamp was suspended in the middle ofthe dome of this edifice, or rather natural cavern.Its gloomy and bluish light threw a deadly pale¬ness upon every object within his sight. A largeglass placed opposite the door, led him to supposethat the lamp cast this livid hue, by observing thathis own countenance had a ghastly appearance.At the foot of this glass was an altar of antiqueform, at the back of which was placed the figureof Aaron’s serpent, wound round a pedestal madeof sculls and human bones. This strange divinitywas surrounded by four torches of black wax, ex¬tinguished and turned down: a poinard, and ananchor placed across, and two silver cups, one ofwhich was filled with honey, the other with a blackliquor, occupied the middle of the altar;—beforeit was a little figure of white wax;—opposite thealtar was a throne elevated by three steps, coveredwith a black carpetin the space between the15altar atul the throne was a tripod, resembling thatof Pythia, in the temple of Delphi, which wasplaced opposite to a golden vase, tilled with burn¬ing coals, upon which the Count de Nevers readthe name of Nicholas Flamd.After having attentively observed all these strangeobjects, he demanded to what place he wras led, andfor what purpose ? “ To the temple of death or ivi-morlalitp !" replied the lady in a solemn tone. Fix¬ing upon this woman a look of indignation morethan astonishment—“ I am in your power,” saidthe Count; “ whatever your designs may be,my enquiries, I suppose, would be useless ; butI ” “ Your questions are indeed useless; thetime for answering them is not yet come,” inter¬rupted the lady“ make yourself easy, thepoinard of the assassin cannot reach you here—you are sheltered from all danger ;” and openinga secret door, she made him enter a chamber wherehe found a bed: two wax lights, which had notany thing magical about them, were set on thetable, on which the Negress also placed a cup fullof liquor, that diffused the most delicious perfume.After bidding him drink of this restorative, shetold him she had much to do elsewhere, and assur¬ing him he had nothing to fear from her who hadsaved his life, w7aving her hand, she departed, fol¬lowed by the Negress, leaving De Nevers in anastonishment which increased every moment. How¬ever, after some minutes reflection upon all thecircumstances of this strange adventure, he wasso convinced by the conduct of the lady, that therecould be no reason to fear the person who had real¬ly saved him, that he determined to make use ofher last gift to assuage the thirst which tormentedhim. Carrying the crystal cup to his lips, hefound the taste more delicious than the perfume it16exhaled; when feeling himself refreshed and reani¬mated, he t hrew himself on the bed, and soon sunkinto a profound sleep.After some* hours of quiet repose, a slight noiseawakened him. The first object that struck himwas the unknown lady, whose veil being thrownback, permitted him to see her features. She ap¬proached him smiling, and said, “ The Count deNevers is worthy of his father: no kind of dangercan deprive you of his fortitude, and you are notinsensible to the chain of virtue. That empty cupand your tranquil slumbers prove it. You havenot disappointed my hopes—you will always fulfilthem ; you will esteem me for myself, and whilst Ireign over fools and villains by the terror of super¬stition, I shall owe the service which I expect fromyou, to the noble confidence of honour and valour.”Whilst she spoke, her action was both persua¬sive and noble. He examined her countenanceattentively. Her features were noble and regu¬lar; melancholy was strongly imprinted on hercountenance, which even a smile did not entirelyremove, though it rendered her more interesting,and gave to her face a mild and sensible expres¬sion ; for never did black eyes join to the vivacity sonaturaf to them, an expression of sensibility morestriking.At last, having recovered the power of utterance,he returned her Ids grateful acknowledgements forhaving delivered him from ttie power of the Kingof Navarre, and as'sured her, that she only had tosay how he was to serve her, and, be the perilever so dangerous, it would be encountered by himwithout delay. Smiling, she said, she would notput his prowess at present to the test; but onlywished him to remain eight days in the asylumwhere she had placed.—“ My life, madam, is in17your power; but I must leave this place instantly.”—The lady, starting, exclaimed, “ Leave thisplace instantly!’—“Yes, madam,” replied theCount, “ but I will return, after having fulfilled aduty not less sacred than that of gratitude. I havea friend, a fellow-soldier ; all our dangei’s, all ourpleasures, have been the same from our infancy.The King of Navarre owes his life to him as wellas to me: you knd\v how Charles D’Evreux hasrecompenced this service to me—the same returnmay attend my friend ; it is to him, madam, I go,who may be in danger of being murdered by as¬sassins.” The lady, after complimenting him onhis noble principles, told him she granted himliberty to leave the cavern, provided he pledgedhis word of honour, that, in eight days, at the closeof the evening, he would, with his friend, repairunder the archway of the palace de Tournelles,and that both would follow the person who willJproduce a ring resembling the one she would givelim. The Count de Nevers without hesitationpledged his word of honour.Drawing then a ring from her finger, she badehim take it, and observe that the name of Adelaidewas engraved on it. It was the same as the onethat would be shewn to him ; and after biddinghim remember his promise, she left the room. Onher departure, the Negress entered, and desired himto follow her He was led through a long obscurepassage terminating in a door, which opened fromthe passage into an obscure dirty street. TheNegress bade him farewell, and then shut the door.The Cotint, hurrying through the street, soon ar¬rived at his hotel, which his friend aK; occupied.As soon as he got to the apartment of the Seurde Joinville, all the agitation and distress of thenight were forgotten, in the joy which the friendsexperienced in again meeting.18When the Seur de Joinville heard of the treach¬ery of the King of Navarre, he was struck withhorror and astonishment. “ What!” exclaimedhe, “ did we save him from the poniards of threeassassins who had disarmed him, that he might, inreturn, attempt your life?” The Count de Neverssaid, the manner in which he was saved was moreincomprehensible, more astonishing; and he thendescribed the lady, with the most brilliant colour¬ing of sensibility and gratitude w hich the vivacityqf his mind could paint. The two friends soon- after separated. In a few hours afterwards theymet again, and had just recommenced their con¬versation, which want of repose had obliged themto interrupt, when the President de Montcal wrasannounced to the Count de Nevers. The Presi¬dent was a distinguished magistrate, w'ho had beenhis guardian, and the most intimate friend of hisfather, and to whom he had entrusted the care ofhis estates, without ever giving himself the leasttrouble about them. The Count de Nevers ranto meet the President, and embraced him. ThePresident informed him he had gained his lawsuit,by which he had more than doubled his fortune ;and besides, that he had triumphed over the mostbeautiful lady in France. The Count, sighing,asked if it had really ruined the most beautifulwoman in the kingdom. The President with asmile, replied, that she had still a larger portionthan was necessary with the name of Dammartin,for, with her heavenly figure, she had a soul stillmore celestial.The two friends listened to the President withequal attention, but without interrupting him,or asking one question respecting Mademoiselle deDammartin. The President, after embracing theCount, and pleading business of importance, bade19him farewell, saying, “ When you have seen thedivine Adelaide, you cannot doubt but that herblood is as pure as her beauty.” At the name ofAdelaide, the Count de Nevers changed colour.Scarcely had the President left the room, when hetook the ring off his finger, which the lady of thecavern had given him, and examined it with ex¬treme attention. The Seur de Joinville duringthis kept a profound silence, and seemed so muchoccupied by his own refiections, that he startedwhen the Count broke it, by asking him if he didnot find something very extraordinary in whatMonsieur de Montcal had said to him.The Seur de Joinville answered not, but sighed ;while the Count, in a voice scarcely audible withemotion, asked his friend, whether, since he haddeprived the most amiable and lovely girl inFrance of so much wealth, he ought not to marryher? The Seur de Joinvitle with a smile said, hewas certain his beloved friend would never marryfor convenience; and sighing deeply, he sunk intoa deep reverie. On hearing him sigh, the Countstarted, and taking theSeurdeJoinvilleby thehand,conjured him, as he valued his peace of mind, totell him why he sighed. The Seur de Joinvilie,starting from his reverie, said, “ You are dream¬ing, I am not conscious of having sighed.” Andsoon after the friends separated.The new-born jealousy of the Count de Nevershad not deceived him; the eulogium on Mademoi¬selle de Dummartin had really affected the Seurde Joinville with the most violent emotion, andreanimated a sentiment, which, for three years, hehad been endeavouring to stifle. It was at theconvent of Fontevi aux, that he had seen one whombe supposed must have been the handsomest wo-maa m France; and this appellation, which Mon-13 320sieur de Montcal had given to Mademoiselle deDammartin, persuaded him that the charmingAdelaide must be the person for whom he had con¬ceived such an unconquerable affection. He hadonly seen her for an instant, when on a visit to hissister, who was for a short time in that convent:he had often requested her to tell him her name,but she as constantly refused to comply with hisrequest.The sudden and capricious attachment of theCount for Madamoiselle de Dammartin, whom hehad never seen, far from weakening the affectionwhich the Seur de Joinville had conceived for her,seemed to render it more lively, by the numerousobstacles which appeared to oppose it; but themoment he caught a glimpse of happiness, it wasinterrupted by a contest between jealousy and ge¬nerosity.He passed the night in dreadful agitation. Thedelusive hopes, which sometimes stole into hisheart, were stifled by reflections on the duties offriendship, which he determined to fulfil, howeverarduous and painful the task might be ; and he tookthe firm resolution of sacrificing his love at theshrine of his friend’s happiness.The King of Navarre was a prey to all the hor¬rors of the most dreadful apprehension; and theadvantage he had given the Count de Nevers overhim, was not the least cause of it. The unexpect¬ed appearance of the lady of the cavern hadsnatched away his victim from him, and lefthim to regret his not having satisfied his ven¬geance.Not daring to attempt the life of the Count afterwhat had passed, the King wras more fully de¬termined than ever to make himself master, if'possible, of the person of Alice- Marcel’s seer eta-OlJLry, upon whose assistance he so much dependedfor the accomplishment of Ids plans, when hespoke to him on this subject, started difficultieswhich he was far from foreseeing. To his urgententreaties to have her conveyed to one of his estateshe peremptorily refused, or to be the means ofputting Alice under his protection. He did notcontend with his Highness on the necessity ofshielding her from the seducing arts of the Countde Nevers; yet he would not assist him in counter¬acting them, but under the express condition, thatAlice should be immediately conducted to the Ab¬bey of Fontevraux, and that only if the abbess ofthat convent consented, to conceal her in that sa¬cred asylum until they could, without endangeringthe state, restore her to liberty, and the King ofNavarre at last consented to this plan, and in a fewhours after he set out to Fontevraux, to prevailon the abbess, from political motives, to take chargeof Alice. But his visit to the abbess proved un-propitious to his hopes, for the abbess refused to re¬ceive Alice into the convent. Chagrined at thefailure of his design, the King of Navarre return¬ed to Paris, and informed Vaudois of the result ofhis journey to Fontevraux. Vaudois then said,since she refused to receive Alice, he could do nomore. So saying, Vaudois hastily bade the Kingof Navarre adieu, and hurried away. The Kingof Navarre, in the height of his fury, cursed Vau¬dois for a trembling slave ; for, had he only con¬sented to his proposals, the lovely Alice would havebeen in his power. The thoughts of his havingbeen defeated in this scheme almost drove him tomadness..The day, on which the Count de Nevers was topass under the arch-way of the Palace des Tour-nelles, at last arrived. Accompanied by the Seurde Joinville, he proceeded to the place of rendez-22vcus, where a woman, covered with a hood, step¬ped before the Count de Nevers, and lifting it, dis¬played, by the light of a dark lantern which sheopened, the figure of the Negress. She presentedhim with a ring like that on his finger, saying,—»Will you follow me f'—“ Without doubt,” re¬plied the Count. She then walked before them toone of the gates of the city, where they found acarriage with four horses. “ Get in,” said theNegress; “ that carriage will convey you to theplace where you are expected.” In silence theyentered the carriage.The evening was closed, the moon did not ap¬pear, the most profound darkness hid from thefriends every object, and the presence of the Ne¬gress (who was crouching at their feet) preventedthem from communicating their thoughts. Somefew questions, and vague enquiries, which theymade, and which the Negress laconically, andvery little to their satisfaction, answered, were notcalculated to shorten a journey, which the travel¬lers supposed must have been of several leagues,when on a sudden the carriage stopped. The Ne¬gress opened her lantern, and they saw themselvesin the midst of a forest ; the horses were changed,and after travelling 'some time longer, and going,as they thought, at a great rate, the carriage stop¬ped at a small door in the middle of a high wall.“ We must now alight,” said the Negress, “ forwe are at the end of our journey.” They descend¬ed, and the carriage drove away directly. Thedoor then opened, and shut immediately after them;their conductress preceded them down a long ave¬nue of firs, planted very thickly, and of a greatheightThe silver rays of the moon, which had nowrisen, sometimes pierced through the dark fo¬liage of these melancholy trees, instead of die-23persing the obscurity, increased it. The twofriends, walking arm in arm, only saw before thema darkness without end, when a door belonging toa house, which they had not before perceived, sud¬denly opened, and discovered to them a hall andmarble staircase, feebly lighted by a lamp, likethat which the Count de Nevers had seen in themysterious cavern; when the Negress taking thelamp, turned to them on the first step of the stairs,and desired them to follow her.After having walked through a long corridor,they entered a large saloon. The Negress put herlamp on a table which was near the door, andwithout speaking retired, shutting it after her.The two friends having advanced to the middleof this large room—“ This prison is at least mag¬nificent, as far as I can judge,” said the Scur deJoinville, feeling the furniture, “ for the feeblelight of the lamp will not allow me to see :—it isall velvet, with gold or silver fringes !” As he saidthis, a crystal chandelier, filled with perfumedlights, descended from the middle of the ceiling,anti illuminated the room.The door opened, and the lady, or rather a fi¬gure of dazzling beauty and majestic appearance,entered the saloon : she had the features of thelady of the mysterious cavern, but the most livelyanti beautiful colour had succeeded to the extremepaleness of her complexion, which made her appearten years younger. Her tall and slender figurewas heightened by a long robe of white gauze,which fell in graceful folds upon the floor, fastenedby a girdle of pearls and precious stones; a ban¬deau of purple velvet, ornamented with diamondsin the form of a crown, encircled her head ; anda black Spanish cloak, covered with unknown cha¬racters, completed her dress, and rendered it as ex¬traordinary as it was magnificent. She held t«t24«ne hand a gold wand, and in' the other a blackbook studded with stars—“ Count de Nevers—Seur de Joinville,” said she, addressing them in asolemn tone, “ I charge you to assist me in de¬fending from the attacks of an abandoned mon¬ster, France—Charles de Valois—and Adelaide deDammar linT—“Heavens!” exclaimed the Count,drawing his sword; “ Adelaide, my Prince, and theState! Dispose of this sword and my life.” Thelady, smiling, said,—“ That sword wras never dip¬ped in infamous blood; a perfidious assassin, acowardly dastard, in the dead of the night, meansto fall upon innocent doves; but he must be pre¬vented.” She then informed them, that the twelfthhour of the ninth day of the moon was at hand ;at that hour precisely, the King of Navarre wouldresort to a dreadful place, where he was desirousof invoking departed spirits, to interrogate themon future events. The lady concluded, by askingthe two friends if they would have the courage tobe witnesses of the humiliation and confessionof the vile King of Navarre. They bowled. Open¬ing then on ebony press, inlaid with gold, ivory,and mother-of-pearl, she told them they wouldfmd there two suits of armour, which she desiredthem to put on ; and, after bidding them makehaste, left the saloon.The two friends, with equal agitation, put onthe armour. The lady returned, followed by theNegress, who carried two shining helmets, shadedwith black and carnation feathers, which she puton the table that stood before the canopy. Thelady then lilting off a carpet of cloth and gold, dis¬played a casket of ebony, which was upon the ta-* hie; and opening it, took out a vial filled witha clear red liquor. She then took successively thetwo helmets, and poured into each a few drops ofthe red liquor which was in the vial: the chande-25 ' ■lier was Wien drawn up through the eeiiing, and thesaloon was again enlightened only by the feeblerays of the lamp. /The lady bade them approach, that she mightfasten on their helmets; the two friends thenknelt before her, and she placed them on theirheads. Then rising, and taking her golden wandand black book—“Follow me!” said she; andadvancing a few paces in the saloon, she struckthe inlaid floor with her wand, which opened attheir feet, and discovered a staircase, by whichthey descended, preceded by the Negress, who car¬ried the lamp. After having descended about tensteps, they arrived at an iron door; the lady hav¬ing touched it with her wand, it opened, and tohis extreme astonishment, the Count de Neversfound himself in the subterraneous cavern. Itwas feebly illumined by that pale light, which castthe same ghastly appearance on all around as before,when it so forcibly struck him. The altar and glasswere covered with a dark veil. Two figures, oneof which represented Time, the other Truth, heldthe corners of this veil in one of their hands, andseemed just going to lift it; whilst in the other.Time bore a dial, the finger of which marked thehour of midnight, and Truth held a mirror. Be¬low the veil they saw in luminous characters, tra¬ced on an iron plate—Lasciate agni speranza'’'The lady then sat down on a throne, shiningi with gold and precious stones, which was beforethe altar, and made the two friends place them¬selves on each side of her, their visors lowered,and their hands upon their swords You willlift the visors of your helmets,” said she, “ at themoment I call upon you to bear witness; but makeno other motion, and keep the strictest silence.”Having made a sign with her wand, the Negressstruck with a hammer upon a bell placed at the26foot of the throne. This single blow was repeat¬ed by an echo, which they heard die away at a dis¬tance : at the twelfth sound the door opened, andthe King of Navarre entered the temple.The King of Navarre was unarmed—his headand breast bare. He was dressed in a long blacksatin night-gown, and held in his left hand a branchof versain ; a golden plate, covered with hierogly¬phic characters, was placed upon Ins heart; andhis right arm, bare to the shoulder, was boundwith a bandage of the colour of fire.“ Charles D’Evreux,” said the lady to him,e< sit down on that sacred tripod.” The tone ofher voice, when she pronounced these words, wasvery different from the charming one which hadpenetrated the heart of the Count de Nevers; itwas like the voice of an imperious and revengefuldeity, whom terror would make every one obey.The King of Navarre made no resistance, butsat down as she had desired him. Scarcely washe seated upon the tripod, when bluish flamesspread around him, and rose up to the dome abovehis head, about a foot from him, but without touch¬ing him.The lady demanded, if he did not acknowledgeher power over the element that surrounded him ?He bowed his head. She then directed the sacredfire upon the object she was striving to intimidate;then, with a word, she arrested its progress, andrecalled it to the place where she would have itrest; then again, while she spoke, the flames in¬sensibly divided, and suddenly extinguished, leav¬ing no other vestige than a transparent cloud,which, without concealing the King of Navarrefrom any one, seemed to environ him in a magi¬cal atmosphere, and diffused through the wholetemple a delicious perfume.The lady, in a tone of command, told him time27was on the wing, and his projects could not stop itsprogress : she bade him look upon the dial: thehand pointed to the twelfth hour ! He was arrivedat the fatal moment of the ninth moon : he hadseen it increase and decrease, since, pursued by thevengeful shade of the murdered Constable la Cer¬da, he came to implore her protection. Raisingthen the book she held in her hand, “ You see,”said she, “ ihe book of truth! A hand, which nopower can alter the sacred characters of, writestherein the virtuous and criminal actions of everyhuman being, the balance of which decides the des¬tiny of every one. All your crimes are here regis¬tered.” The King of Navarre turned pale,, andin a trembling voice, said—“ I confess, madam, Ihad the Constable assassinated; and I also con¬fess ”—“ Those crimes are known,” interrupt¬ed the lady; “ you are to confess those whichyou intend to commit.” The King of Navarreremained silent. “ Ah ! you do not answer me.—Infamous destroyer of all the sacred ties of so¬ciety ! Look at this altar—and tremble at the im~potency of the wicked.”The King of Navarre cast a look of mingledterror and indign&tion upon the altar. The veilwas lifted up, and through a glass was seen twocelestial figures, resembling the shades of blessedspirits rather than living creatures, dressed inwhite, and holding each other by the hand. Theirslightest motion could be perceived, and yet it ap¬peared like a beautiful picture. The charmingvision continued but an instant, for a genius, en¬compassed with dazzling rays of light, appeared inthe glass, in one hand holding a vulture and a foxchained together—in the other a shield, with whichit covered the two beauties; then suddenly all wasobscured in darkness, which flashes of lightning atintervals rendered more striking and awful.CThe magic picture had the same eiTect on the"King of Navarre, as if it had been the head of Me¬dusa. Immoveable, Ids arms extended towards> he altar, he appeared do be petrified; soon hiseyes fell, his head reclined, and a lethargic sleepseemed to deprive him of his senses.“ Charles D’Evreux,” said the lady, “ doesyour memory retain any traces of the happinessof being innocent ?”—“ Innocent!” repeated the un¬fortunate man, in a weak and broken voice; “ In¬nocent !’’ while a few tears escaped from his half-closed eyes, and a conclusive shuddering seemedto shake his w hole frame.The lady said, she hoped the remembrance ofthose days, and the salutary remorse he now dis¬played, would make him renounce the criminalprojects he had formed. “ The Kegent shalldie !” said the monster, while his face regained itsferocious impression; “ he shall die ! The poisonhas been proved—the hand is sure :—he shall die !—and Never?—the hated Nevers, whose life Idare not attempt, shall feel my deadly revenge—nor shall any thing stop my vengeance ! I shallmake my country bleed in " He stopped, asif exhausted by his fury and revenge.During the time that the -King was speaking,the lady drew from her bosom a phial filled withbright red liquor, and gave it to the Negerss,who rubbed the temples of the King of Navarrewith it; after which he sat as if transfixed to thetripod. Suddenly the most doleful cries and groanswere heard Starting, as from a sleep, “ Wheream I,” cried he: Great God protect me!” Thecries then died away by degrees, as if to a dis¬tance.After a long silence, the Indy told him he hadnotning to fear from the infernal spirits, whomthat sacred name had put to flight. The genius29of France had prevented hb attempt against the-life of the heir to the throne from being successful.“Go yourself,'’ said the lady, “ fight and subduethose bands of rebels, that your intrigues and de¬sire of . vengeance have assembled. You have ftroops near Mante ; go, put yourself at their head,and disperse those poor deluded men: it is theonly way to escape divine vengeance.” “ I ambetrayed," cried the King, rising impetuously fromthe magical tripod, and advancing towards thethrone': when the lady, waving her wand, “ Pro-■* fane and audacious wretch !" exclaimed she, “ youdare to doubt my power!—Approach, ye shadesof vengeance ! shew yourselves !” The two friendsimmediately raised the visors of their helmets.“ What do I see !—Great God ! /.a Cerda !—D’Harcourt /" cried the King of Navarre in atrembling and broken voice. “ Deliver me, ma¬dam, from this horrible vision, and direct the fu¬ture actions of my life." “ Lower your visorssaid she ; and the friends obeyed. Then address¬ing herself to the King,—“ lleflect, that the vic¬tims you have sacrificed are the witnesses, thesecurities, of the engagements you are going toenter into, to save those whose destruction youhad determined on. Swear then to fight againstand disperse the armed peasants, and to endeavourto bring them back to their duty.” “ I do swear,madam,” replied Charles, approaching the altar,en which he laid his hand ; I solemnly swear, andmay the ”—“ No imprecations!” interruptedthe lady ; “ they profane an oath. Look at thedial—the hand points to the first hour ! Begonefrom this place, and let not the sun, in the middleof his course, find you in Paris !”Charles advanced towards the door with faulter-mg steps, and his eyes cast down : it opened, andshut after him. The Negress struck the bell once,30the sound of which was prolonged without beingrepeated.The astonishment of the friends equalled theterror of the King of Nav'arre. After the soundof the bell had sunk away to a great distance, thelady went up to them, and loosing their helmets^bade them look at their visors ; and they saw thatthey were double, and that, when they thought tohave raised them entirely, they only discovered theinner part, which represented, in a most astonish¬ing manner, a perfect resemblance of the Consta¬ble la Cerda and the Count D'Harcourt.The lady bade the two friends take off theirarmour, and leave them at the foot of the altar;and begged of them never to betray the confidenceshe had placed in them, until she explained tothem the causes of it, and the object she had inview. As the lady departed, the Negress enteredwith a lantern in her hand, and bade them fol¬low her. Having made them pass through a doorwhich the throne had hid from their sight, theyfound themselves, after going a few steps, at theend of the wall, where the little door was bywhich they had entered into this strange habita¬tion. The same carriage was waiting, which soonconveyed them to the arch-way of the Palace desTournelles, On leaving the carriage they return¬ed to their hotel.A few days after, the President de Montcal en¬tered the Count de Nevers’ apartment, and inform¬ed him, that he wished the Count would accom¬pany him to the hotel of the Countess de Ham-martin ; to which with reluctance he consented.On their arrival at the hotel, they found the Coun¬tess de Dammartin alone, who received them withpoliteness. The door of the saloon soon opened,and presented to his enraptured sight a beautifuland noble lady, whom the Countess introduced to31iiim as Adelaide de Dammartin. The joy of see¬ing her was soon overcast, and the thoughts ofthe injury he was doing his friend he felt withsuch insupportable anguish, that before he couldspeak, he sunk senseless at the feet of Adelaide, whoscreamed out, “ The Count de Nevers is dying.”A piercing cry from an adjoining room answeredthat of Adelaide; and as the President and Ma¬dame de Dammartin were assisting the Count, ayoung lady entered with a distracted air, andran up to the insensible young man. After hav¬ing looked attentively at him, whilst they wereplacing him on a sofa; “ How happy I am,” sheexclaimed, and instantly left the saloon. Whenthe Count recovered; he heard with astonishmentfrom Madame de Dammartin, that it was notAdelaide the Seur de Joinville loved, but her cousinAdelgonde de Montfort, who much resembled Ade¬laide ; and the President had mentioned his re¬gret, that the two noble friends were both unhappyby loving Adelaide; therefore she thought it herduty to discover the mistake.While she was speaking, a domestic of the hotelentered, out of breath, to say, that a number ofdisorderly armed peasants, had burned the Cha¬teau du Vidarae de Melun, and killed that noble¬man, his wife, children, with all their domestics.This intelligence chilled every heart wnth horror.The President de Montcal, anxious to make en¬quiries concerning this aw ful intelligence, accom¬panied by the Count, hastily bade the Countessadieu. On his way to the hotel he interrogatedevery one from whom he thought it possible togain any information ; but all the information hecould procure was only a repetition of the horriblecruelties committed by those peasants. He return¬ed with the Count to the hotel De Nevers.Some days passed in the greatest agitation and32uncertainty, when the Count learned, with the ut¬most surprise, that the King of Navarre had puthimself at the head of the troops he had assembledin the environs of Mante, inarched against therevolted peasants, and entirely defeated them nearClermont, in BeauvaUes ; that 3000 of them hadbeen left dead on the field of battle, and their lead¬er had been given up to the seventy of the lawsby the King himself; that the remainder of thoseferocious bands were dispersed, and flying in everyquarter, still pursued by his troops. This conductof Charles, incomprehensible to all the rest of theworld, was not so to the Count: he called to min'dall the circumstances which had passed in the sub¬terraneous cavern, and saw it was owing to theinfluence of the unknown lady, or rather the result-of his superstitious fear of her supernatural power.In the evening he accompanied the PresidentDe Montcal to the hotel of Dammartin, where,-to his surprise, he beheld the Seur de Joinvilleseated beside the Countess de Dammartin and tholady of the mysterious cavern. The Countesstook the unknown lady by the hand as soon asthey entered the saloon, and introduced her to theCount, as Madame Valentia de Montfort, who hadsaved her country and her prince. It was herhand that dashed the empoisoned cup from themouth of the Regent; it was her who, by heruncle's instructions, had made such progress in thosesciences which are known to so few ; it was thatknowledge which enabled her, by means the mostsimple, to take advantage of the superstition of amonster, whose ignorance made him suppose herpossessed of supernatural powers; while, by her vi¬gilance, she overturned all his plans of rebellion.The Count de Nevers and Scur de Joinvilieheard this discovery with wonder and pleasure.—Madame Valentia de Montfort was married at an33rnrly age to the Count of that name, who diedthree months after their marriage. The old Countdc Nevers, two years after, saw Valentia, and,struck with her beauty, ottered her marriage; she re¬fused to enter again into matrimony, but acceptedof him as a lover. Soon after this connexion shefound herself pregnant, and before she had an oppor¬tunity to make known her situation to the Countde Nevers, he was obliged to go to the south ofFrance, where he soon after died. On his dea.tii,Valentia hastily quitted France, accompanied byNicholas Flame], her uncle, to England, where hetook a feigned name, and under the character of arich merchant, he passed for her husband till afterthe birth of her child ; when they left England,they proceeded to Venice, and again he changedhis name. Her daughter Adelgomle’s educationwas superintended by herself, and all her care wasexerted, to implant those seeds of virtue in herbreast, which had never been sown in her own.Nicholas FlamePs benevolent heart often led himto the haunts of poverty and distress, and one of-the objects of misery he relieved was Marcel'ssister. A thought struck him, at the time hewished to counteract the designs of the King ofNavarre and Marcel, to introduce her into the fa¬mily of this factious magistrate, by pretending thatAdelgonde was the daughter of his sister.Madame de Montfort’s zeal to be useful madeher willingly adopt the plan. They went to Mar¬cel's—Adelgonde as Alice, the daughter of his de¬ceased sister, just come from Venice, and Madamede Montfyrt as Fittoria. The energetic characterof her daughter, contributed as much to tlieii-suc¬cess, as the treasures and other means devised byher uncle. Adelgonde, by accident, discovered aminiature, which she was informed was her bro¬ther; but the instinct of love made her doubt thisassertion ; and without daring to examine this34dreadful mystery, she hoped every thing: hutwhen she saw him at Fountevraux, though it wasonly for a few minutes, she thought she had inspir¬ed him with affection. When she heard Adelaideexclaim, “ The Count de Nevers is dying,” sheflew into the saloon, and immediately knew theCount's features: her joy was great to find liewas not the Seur de Joinville, but her brother.The temple of death and immortality was not farfrom the hotel de Dammartin, and the garden ofMarcel was only a few yards from it; therefore,with so many local advantages, a very little art,faithful friends, and a great deal of gold, the neiceof Nicolas Flamel, aided by some knowledge ofnatural philosophy, was, without any supernaturalaid, Marcel's Donna Fittoria, and a magician tothe King of Navarre.This cavern was the retreat of Nicholas Flamel,when obliged to escape from the persecutions rais¬ed against him, for his wonderful knowledge andt alents, by a set of illiterate people, who imputed tomagic every thing beyond the conception of theirnarrow understandings. It was to this cavern heretired with his immense treasures, which had longbeen the scene of his chemical experiments, andwhere his neice was initiated into all the mysteriesof his art. At his dearii he bequeathed all hiswealth to his beloved neice.The happy Count de Nevers, and the Seur deJoinville, led their beautiful brides to the altar.When the ceremony was over, they returned tofhe hotel de Dammartin, where an elegant banquetWas prepared. If the marriage banquet was notanimated by glittering magnificence and noisymirth, it afforded the more pleasing spectacle ofvirtuous love, approving and approved, lookingwith complacency around, and reading in the sweetmaternal smile, the jov their happiness diflused.FINIS. ‘N