THE HISTORYOF ALLRELIGIONS,IK PARTICULAR,The Churches. Parties, and SectariesSOFTHE HOLY CHRISTIAN RELIGIONViZ.New Light BurghersHeathen*,Mahometans,[ Jews*CKRisTiANSjincludiagj I’apifls,j Jeiuits.I Proteftants,Epifcop&ls,Presbyterians,I Reformed Preibytery,i6eceders,Burghers,ili Antiburghers,. Old L'ght Burglars,Prefbyteryof Relief,Independent*,Pedobaptitts,T abernacles,Quakers,Btrean*,Methodists,Arians,Arminians,Socioians, *Antioomiass^Eraftians,Dougialites,And an account of the Origin of BurningHeretics in Eu- '.aad,Ex A. CAMPBELL.printed [of the Bookfe'^ers.1822.V; J1!rTHE HISTORYOT AU.RELIGIONS.I.Of PAGANS, or HEATHENS.ALTHOUGH the Pagans,or Heath^nsin ge¬neral, believe that there is ome God aboveail; yet they worship and adore niany gods, whichare but creatures of their own fancy. Ahnoft e- .very nation, country, island, and tribe of peoplehave their own gods.In old times, the Saxons in England had fe*ven chief gods, viz t. The Siin 2. The Moon.3. Tusk. 4. Wudden. 5. Thar 6. Fridge- ''j, Saturn,—Or, in other words, r. The^odof!light, who was adored on Sunday. 2, The god- |dess of night, adored on Monday. 3. The god |©1 ftrengtbj adored on Tuesday. ‘4. The gcd of jwar, adored on Wednesday. 5. The god ofpower, adored on Thursday. 6 The god of,love, adored on Friday. And, 7. The god dftheearth, adored on Saturday.—Froni thefe idols,tlac days of our Week are dill named. In SceU jJsnd, the fire ar.d the bull were adored.List of Heathen Gods and Godesscs.t P-in, the god of E^ypt. 2 Dngon, the godof the riiiliUines. 3. B.fa!, the god of many ofthe Eaftero Nations. Cupid, the god of love.Venus, the goddefs of love. Bacchus, the godof wine. Boreas, the god of ftorms and wind.Neptune, the god of ihe Teas, &c. O the de*pravity of fallen human nature l\l.~Of the MAHOMETANS*About fifteen Ivmdrei years ago, a man ofTurkey, feeing the high ihfpmes about religion inEgypt, and the neighbouring nations, formed adeep laid plan to pleafe all parties, by making anew one altogether. And fo, the better to effecthis nurpofe, pretended that he was infpired by-God, and called himfeif the Great Prophet of God—This religion is very enticing to corrupt nature,being of a carnal kind, for the Heaven ir promifes,is the full enjoyment of women and wine in thefuture Bate, &r. They believe in one fupremeGod, and have in general very rational views ofa divine Providence.Ill —0/ the JEWS.I need fay little of them, as the doctrine andJaws of the Jews are fully recorded in our OldTestament. But tHe'r great error is unbelief ;they do not believe that JESUS, whom their fa¬thers cruciiifd, was the true Mtlliah? and areffill locking for another.I could ijavi*, - . -   f,- • i !ui?re ftll actount o|*tb®-^jie rr'ligions, but ‘my main design is to treat o’tbe true. And thrvafore I inali new proceed ttfit eak cf the Chrjftiixi. Religicn, and the variou'adadoiitUhoas o; its prolHtrlf^ • Gf tf-'e. Cfoirib of Rowe. .. jThey hold the F.rfiat tgoths- of .ChristisnUvbut have aeded much to- them, fuch as the foi;iowint’ :l- I i:e Fnlfallihil ty of the Church, viz, thI ope and high Eifiiop&.iL nie worfhipping ofange’s, the Virgin Mery, Apbflles. {Saints, See. 0 >1nf.- ihe dd*rtrine of Purgatory, or a midd'tate betueen heavth and he]J. to-ourge the ioiifitom sin ^ * feseven facramenrt-^-i The lincharist;or Lord’s Supper-*-2 JWism—3 The Mafc4 Extreme Unction, or giving the Lord’s feut»per to dymg peopJe-5 lioly Under, or makinjof priests—6 Confirmation— 7 Marrhge. 'V- Of Indidgencesj orpardm; of sb;, (for m^ney) on confeifion to the priest. a, VJ‘ 01 Fenanc<*: '»• afiliciiug the body for rir!by fading the black fiool, tick gown, biacfwood, fire. “ I.. Y11 0i'^eping holy days, and eating-nc fief!5v Yenc\,n n,em<il‘y otic Lord’s Ltbng fon«ays m the wildernefs 6Vlfl fransubAmtiarioD; or that the bread an” me into* Lord’s Supper ere tamed, into Cbf.V*‘:6, IX Holy .Magiftrates, o# tbat Cimrchmenliquid have power over ftates.X. OF Nnnnenes, Monaft#rie?, &c. or houfes•/here holy virglas live retired from the world<f mankind; no man being permitted there byhe prieds.X[. Of many orders of Pridh—I The Pope—2 .Arch Caa'dinak—3 Arch Bdliops—-4 Ordi'-tary BHhcps—■'§ PrieHs—6 Friars—7 hfonks, &c.They hold that there is no falvarion tint ofheir Church. They adore particular places, ie-ics of the dead, wells, saints, tombs—and go onigrimage to therwThey believe that the fotils of imbaptized chil-.reh wander or hover about in the air till theid day.Of the Church of England.i ^About the year 1570, Henry 8rh, King of Etig-ind, threw oif the Pope's authority, proftsted a-tainst the Church of Rome, and put the Church'f England on a new iPothig,. liaving no higherJhurchmen \han Uiibop?. Tltey deny ail theibremen^oned. articles held by the Rvman churcii,nd held <he doctrines of Lutlter, Calvin, and o-her Protdfant Refoaners in Germany.1 Of the Church sf Scotland.' The people of Scotland, being weary of the tv*pnny, Opprdiiob, aud 1 ceiuiqv.s lives ot the Ro-jun Clergy, and having received coufiderablesght from ;the preaching of one Mr GeorgeIvifliart, an eminent divine, who had been in-ructed in rbe yrnf the Pjiiat/'iiaftJL.r<■!ivuu"»vjicn ofc-’iiis travels irt;Germany ; that they nuglitjahout a reformation, entered intoaNat'oriyij.Covenant in the year 1581. ft was renewed byrjitopia of all ra:-ks> in the year 1584 It was a~£a n renewed by royal ami church authority in'1590, and afterwards by Nobles, Barons, Bur-g’-ijes^ MiuiBers, and Conmors in the yearibjg, andapproven by the General Ail'embly, andby an act ot i’arliainon, 1650. It was also hub*Imbed by King Charles i?. at ihe river Spey :nthe north of dcotlxnd, and at the palace of ftcoon.near Perth, in the year 't his Covenant hrecorded at large in the Confdlion of Faithp* 454, the snbdance of which is as follows :‘* VVre pro-rest agsinst all 1;.l!e Ral'gion, chifil;“ all h'-nds of Popery (fee the 15 articles of Rome“■ and k do to ccicr.d the King’s per Con and go“ vernment, iy deicnce of tlye true Religion.''King Charles It. no looner got power, than h<Pel feentid the Covenanters, nojefs than 20 yearsAutl Ids broihcr, James Vi!, did the fame far*or 3 years—In this perfeemto**, Mr Donald Carly d, ilie Earl of Argyle, Mr Skeen, Mr GuthrieMr Renwick, and litany others, inhered njartyrdour »or theii adherence to the Nati«,a«i,l Covenanam! Solemn Ler^e.fhe nation ;>■; lad thought proper to cha?gthe government, and fo called over WillisuvPnirc*of Orange, to be king; which line of lb trees illfill the throne of the new Untied KoogJum cGreat Britain and Ireland—King Vv'iiiurm begsto reign in f,he year <6?S.Thg. dofirme, woi’Ihip and govrrn.'r.er.t of thChurch pf Kcct’anJ, aie ihfertui ia tae-W J;j,8aiinfter Confe3i<in orFalth and Cafediiftn, whichought to be read by every Chriitian in Scotland.iOf the Reformed Presbytery.I, Somemioiiters and people, conceiving that par¬ticular grievances were not retire fled, with otharnliundewtandiogs attending the settlement inidcS, and writhing Church and S'ate to be putpn the the very fame footing as in 1638*, did lepa--a,cs themselves into a diftinct, body under the'denomination of the Reformed Prdsbytery. Vhey(re vulgarly called Cameronians, or M‘Mi Hans,/'om two of their minifters of that name.Of Seceders in general• Between the years 1732 and 174c, Mr the-,ezer Erflcine, and his brother Ralp, Mr Filliev,nd fime ether? came out from tne eflablilheddhurch of Scotland—They flated many errors*n their view) that had crept into the Church,pch as Arminiau and Socinisn doctrine, laxncfs'p difcipline and patronage, that i?, the chiefi'-’d in the parilh to have power to put in any.bimfier hepletdeth ; tfsis power in feme parifh'es4 lodged in the crown, as Falkirlc, Alloa, 8ccI Oj^the Burghers and Antiburghers., Soon after the Heccflicn took place, they dif-* ted among thernfelves. The ground of thisiipure was as follows;‘ The Burghers maintained that it was lawful to!j # See Confc-ffion of Faith and Covenant?, Na-“Onat and Sol sum League, page 67.9{Wear the Bnrgtfs Oath in all it? extent; an«! thatthe Covenants cannot be properly fworn by a par¬ty, but ought to be done in a n^tfpnal way, beinga public deed , otherVife it would not be a Na¬tional, bur a Party Covenant,i he Antiburghers, in oppoil.ion to this, Cud, f,that ic was not right to Cwear the Burgef> Oath,}having a religious ch'*ui’e in ic: and that it is lave-fa. for a party to renew the covenant at ail times.Gj the Pt;eshyiery of KtrUef.About 50 years ago, Mr Thomas Gi!!e<p‘e,then p^riih oiiaifterot Carhock, beisg appointedj By rhe General Auyoibiy, to place a miaiifer atl«verklcth:j!g, against the people's will, refusedto do it; icr which he was laid afixie for a year.Next aflembly he fpoke bodly aga nd patronage,and was depoled. Soon after, he and his fol-jlowers foil ’d a party, tindtjr the denouiioatiouof the Prcfoytery of fvcltef; being thereby rejlievcd from Patronage. 1 hey are Calyinifts f,hut they are very f;ee in receiving chyrch mem-tiers.Gf tbi Ofd and New Light Burghers*The Oi l Light people say. that they stand fathe ConfefIi:-n of Faith in every point; the NewLight party do. not deny it. WHerein lieth tlridiiTerence ? ■1 The Old Light party fay, that the civijm„gii\raie hath a right to all church courts, anJ•f l hey hold Juftifrcation by free t’race, onljthrough Ure sacrifice of Christ reo ivt^ by' faitivihe difLctcvs and independenis hold the same0i ato sit in thfcrn; and aifo to puniih all hered;s anderrors, tven to bodily punifhme'at. (b^e Con-foilion of Faita, chap, 23 ) Moreover, they lay,that iheCoVrtUtus, Natidnal & Solemn League,- sworn above j«p years ago, are as bindingt upon u; to this day, as they were upon them by1 whom they were s worn; and if we do not take■ or acknowledge them, we are petjured persons,1 although maoy canro' in conference approve of| the proceedings of that time. They add think,• that public national covenanting, is as-war ran t-iable under the New rcstatnent as it was under the ''.Old, when the true worship of God was c®n-liined to the ca/ual feed of Abraham. In sfao:r,■jail a’teviUiqns whatever, eiilirf elfehtlal or cir-.cnmfuntial, rn the«r viesVs are deviations from^the truth, and received conons ot the Church offjBcgfiand, as received in 160S.2 I'he new Li^ht party' savs, that the civil“magif;rates, as such, hath no warrant from tue’New Testamsat to call church councils, nor pre-ii le in them, and though it is the di;W ot thecivil magiftrate to maintain justice and prace infcivil society, and to pniulh oiiVcdcrs ; yet they„ --’e po fjght to exercise power over men's con*teieuces, iti things purely spiritual.As to the covenas t-:. they seem to wish to putihem out of the question, ijja great meaipre, as!appears, by the;r siiepce.0/ Inderande.us and Missionaries.The Independents, and those called Mis?iona-Jies, are no new party, but an old one reviv'd,*;very congregation forraeth a particular Church,t ^ 'JIIIhath no higher Court than ita own members, andevery member has £ right to speak. They saythat faith, human or divine, implies nothingj more but simply believing.—That the differencebetween divine and human faith doth, not con-s'ut in iti nature, but in the object of it. Thatthe Lord's Slipper cu^ht to be taken every firstday of the week ( \cts xx 7 )—they view itas a thanksgiving, and so bless not the bread,but bids God for Chrift, (I Cor x 24) at repre-fented in that ordinance to true believers only.?>• They receive none into their communion tillthey can give evidences of their converfion. Itis reported that they must ftate the.precife time*Hut rhi; Lems to be falfe. They view a belief ofthe Gofpel, a becoming convtrfation, a properknowledge of the Scriptures, and the gift of ut¬terance, as abfo’inely need!,ary for a gofpelpreacher, and many do without College learning.Of the PedohapitjQs.They baptize none till the perfon actually pro-,fds faith in Christ, according to Matt, xxviii.,19^Mirk xvi. 16. In baptifrn, they dip or imnacrfethe whole body in water, in imitation of John’sfcaptifxn, Mar. iii. 27. Their preachers andChurch office bearers are chofeti froaa amongthemfelves in every particular meeting, which,forms a church ; in which all coutroverfiej arefolved. The manner of their church djfcipline,and cenfures are recorded in Matt. xvii. and Ixxviii.—2 Cor. x-—1 Cor. v. ^cc. 'They lay, though none can ba faved but thofewho repent, believe, and obey the Gofpel; yettilth, repsntarsce. aoJ good woiki are no groundcr condition of a un'hei*,s junlGcation before God,lut refteth atone upon the eternal decree of freegrace'. They receive the Lord’s Supper weekly-Birr are itnprop'irly called Anabaptiftf, for thel1 y\nabaptifts are anctfier feet, *uo baptize allthe,ir members every year. The Locin wordAnno, ftbrn whhh A nab* p till i? derived, figni-| 'fiefli year, and therefore t^iat denomination may, more plainly be'rendered 'YVarty-Baptids.VrgCMKERS.i They are jo called, bccaufe they foraetime*j groan and tremble in their prayers. Th<-y preach■ rone, unlefi moved, ai they view it, by tiie Holy| Ghoff Many people are To bold a; to fay, thati this.is a deiulion of 3‘-.an ; but it is very daoger-j cus to ipeak in that manner, for many good fruit*appear m them>fuch as plain honeftdeaHng in thetv-arid, mercy to the poor, abtfaininc from Iwear-| mg, lying, and the like* They give titles of ho¬nour to no man, (Matt, xxiii. 6 ) nor uncovertheir heads, though in lhe prefence of the high-, t ft personagiynor in their own places of worfliip,| but when they are c'.fpofed to fpeaV- They do| ftot name the day of the week as v. c do, but nuqa-1 her them r, 2, &«. for in tlieir v'k w (in the main|i* is fo) rhe riames ar prefent in us^ were hand¬led down to us from the Heathen-.. They allowwomen to exhort in their meetings, but not to■ rule, Acts xxi. 2—i Cor. x*. j.They appeared iirlt in England in the time ofCromwell. Their four der was one David George,;a refpcctable fhocrcaker in Uss-fcrd. Aiwr bite.aaotker remarkable character arofe among them,ca'led William Pen, whofe uncle had been a veryafive Admiral in the reign of Charles I. and for^hich he had been promifed a condderation by™ government. Upon the death of the Adtui-ri» nephew, Witiiasn, waited on Charles I.and, with his head covered, demanded what hidbeen promifed his uncle in the former reign. TheAdmiral having, befides his meritorious ierviccs, ;advar.c. J a conliderable lum for the use of go¬vernment ; the Parliament gave William a grantof the Province of Penfylvania, in north America,to which a great number of the Quakers emi¬grated, and founded one of the molt beihtifulcities in the world, the capital of that province,and called it Philadelphia, which fignilies brother¬ly love. Xhe name of the province itielf hasiits derivation from the founder’s name. Pen.I fhall conclude the account of this feet, witk >nn anecdote of another diftinguifned character .nmong them, called Robert Barclay, Vho ad-IvcfTcd King Charles II upon his reftoration, inhe following manner : ■“ Thou haft tafted of prosperity and adverfi-1 ty : thou knoweft what it is to be banifhed* thy native country, to be over-ruled as well as'.** to rule, and to fit upon the throne, and being: ‘ opprefsed ; thou haft reafon to know howif hateful the opprtflbr is both to God and man.3 If, after all thef'e warnings and advertisements,thou deft not turn unto the Lord with all thyI- heart, but forget him who remembered theei in thy diftrefs, and give up thyfelf.tp followhift and vanity, furely great will be thy condem-*4rl‘rstlon—;Agafn{l which fr.are, as well as the“ temptahon of.thofe who may or do feed thee,am! prompt thee to evil, the mcfl excellentand prevalent remedy will be to apply thyfto that light of Chrift which iliiiiCvh in tt-vcon/ctencc, and. lihich neither can nor will“ flatter thee, nor feifllr thee to be at cafe iuft tby has ’’Gf t/je BEREA#S. ■ . ' |They take their name to themfclve*, from !Ac's. xvii. 11. »<■ TheBcreans were more noble j“ than thdfe of Thcfiatontca, in that they receiv- !“ cd the word with all readibtfs of mind \ and j“ fearched t^.e Scripfores daiiy whether thofe“ thing; were fo” Wl*oni they pretend to haveimiraicd, that they might find cut,truth, and laythe foundation of them Church, in difhnctionfrom .a!i ether denomications of Chriftians.Their 'fouudet Was one Mr. John Barclay,preacher of the Gofpel in the pafifli of Fettetvcaim. Angus-Ihire, and affldant to the late RevMr. Dow. ah sued nr.nifier of that pirtfh. Dpoathe death 'bf Mr. Dow, haying1 little intereft tofacetted in tfe parifh. Mt. Barclay fet cut forILdihburgh,<tv., in a fhort trrt*>e it was an¬nounced id the newfpapers that he bad formedsaid joined hlmf.df to the Berean Sogcty in thafcity, about the year 1770.So-far s'? is known, Mr. 'Barclay was a bFgood char-iter, of h religious turn of mind, andonly rendered iinauar by his peculiar fcr.tinie.ms;i:Dacernin* the doctrine of the Aflurance ofairN, viz.They say, As fh’th and doubting are oppofiterincip’er, Jb no true ChriOian can have anyloubt of the truth of the gofpel ; that is, that le¬ns f'hrift is the Son of God, and the only Re-teemer of God’s e'ect; nor of their owufalvrtion,;>r! both refteth on the fadne t Himbny ; “Tiejut beiieveth fliali be fayed,” &c. i.A-rlt xvi. 10.They are Independents, and affov/ infant bap-foi, although fonie of them are very fcrupnlcusa that head.1 They fay, that people on flit tq remain in nobubt of their believing, and cbnfetpaentiy of}i«r being laved ; for Inch a? do so, are in thehi cf bittternefi and bond of iniquity.| Mr Barclay aliertt, in a letter to a friend onis doctrine of aflu: ance, That he T-ts no morepnbt of his Iteiing a? a liar, in the fcinfdam• f heaven after death, than he has of the p:n-■ A\zt% If-.iah and Teremiah being aircadv in thatitt'ppy ftate, becayfe it is poiuiveljr fald,' ‘■■ Hebat bvlieveth Ih’all be faved.’*' And tbr-efore,| h« was petfuaded tbit he did believe .the gol-pl, he ftw no resfon to doubt of his -iatv.uion.if He had a peculiar tait-nt for reUgidus poetry,hi pubiifii'/d a nettr verSoti of the Tiala-s cf'■' avid »« ahette, adapted to the Chrift’-n difnen-.ution i in which he applies ail the '^fUSaas roijjhnft and to his church.IHe aifo publifhed a volume of Spiritual Songs,the tunes of the mo ft common fougs lung byc young women of Fetrercaira at thair wheels,” prevent' them fioci pvoOitutioj their mui&altalents on prolane or senfdefs fubject?. He didbut a few year' ago, on a Sabbath morning, B0'1!#rom hi* own hoofs to their place of war hi ip i,Eiiftburgh.Ofi/j? METHODISTS.With rcgxard to their religious principle?, wcannot enter into any particular detail: neitheindeed are there any doctrines pecu'iar to all i?eluded under that name, except the fingle or |of iaivation hy faith without works. In M^rvi1741, Mr Wbitefieid being returned t > England)entirely'frparated frcsi Mr Wefley an 1 his irieodj“ becaufe he did not hold the decree?.”—Herwas the firft breach, which warm men perfuade-Mr Whiteiield to make, merely for a diffcrenccf opinion. Those indeed who believed univerfal redempi:'*'"*.!, had no defire at a‘l to feparatebut rhofe who hdd particular redemption, wvuinot hear of any aecommodatlon, being determined to have no feliowHiip with men that “ werin fuch dangerous errors.” So there were nc»two sorts of Mcthodifls so called i thole tor particu'ar, and tfaofe for general, redemption.Not many years pafied, before William Cutworth and James Re’.ly, feparated trom MiWhiteiield.—Thefe were properly Anunoir.i.v.vabfolute avowed enemies to the law of Gotwhich tfeeynever preached, or protelled to pre.icbut termed all Legalists who did. With theirpre-'clrng the law was an abomination. I hehad nothing id do with the law They wouipreach Christ, as they called it, but without onword either of hoiinti’. or good worl;;». Yt1' .-4.v?were : till denominated Methodifis, althoughfering from Mr. Whitefieki, both in judgementd practice, abundantly more that Mr. White-Id did from Mr Wesley.In the mean time Mr Venn and Mr. Roinainegnn to be fpoken of, and not long after Mr.jadan and Mr. Benidge, with a few other cler-men, who, although they had no connection[th each other, yet preaching falvation by faith,!d endeavouring to ih e accordingly, to be Bi-b Christians, were fcOn included m the generallime of Methodists. And lb indeed were alldiets who preached falvation by faith, and ap-»ared more ferious than their neighbours. SomeI1 tbefe were quite regulsr in their manner ofleaching: Come were quite irregular, (though notif choice; but neceifity wa-> laid upon them, theyusr preach irregularly Or not at all,) and othersere between both ; regular m most, though not!« ail .particulars.lij la 1762, George fiell, and a few other perfons. ;g.'.n ro fpenk great words * In the latter end ofe year they foretold that £iey world would beI an end on the 28th of February. Mr. We (ley,l ith whom they were connected, withstood themnil in public and private. This they wouid notSub.re ; fo, in January and February 1763, theyparated from him under the care of Mr. Mas-■ld, one of Mr Wesley’s preachers. But rttllHtr Maxficld and his adherents, even the wildeftuhuli dls among them, go under the generalratne of MethodiftS, and fo bring a fcandoi uponLofe with whom they have no connection, At pttfent, thole who remain with Mr. Wes-jy are moftly Ctmrch-of-England ms-u. 'f heyiSkw? her riilc'e*, her hom'.iies, hei l-uir^y,cTiscipline, and unwillihgly'vary from it in any*fl.iruo- Meantime, all vvho preach among iluideclare, u we are all by nature children o^vvraifhut by grace we are laved through faith favcfrom both the guilt and from the power of ‘They endeavour to live accordmg to what rhnpreach, to be plain Bible*Cl rillmns'; and thefneet together at cortveniewf times to etH'ouraone another therein. Ti.^krndcrly love mathat areCafvinilts, thhugl^i^F- do n.r love theopinions Yea, they.love roe Atnipoiriia'-s thetfifetves ; but it }'$' with a love of conroaoihn onbfor they isaie their doctrines with a perfect h.fr.-d ; they abhor them as the? do hell- fire ; beitiiconvinced nothing can fo effectually dcihoy •’faith, all bolmds, and all good AvorfWe flrall conch de tins article with the woreof Mr Hanfoti, which jmrt cert duly be actoun<fd juft, wharevtr 'objections tuny be made tfome p;.r;s of the principle* or ijehaviour of tf:jMcthbcii t's “ 7t tiffy pofies? not'umch ke.o'.llltdgc, which,tiowevcr, we do not know to be trcafe, tt is at leaf! certain, they are not deficient \ze:l; and without any paiilonatc tlcfire to imitatfl'eir enarr.jde, VvC m;iy ac least common .1 tiitflendeav; ors for the gt-stcrai good ‘Every goo.to uV will contemn!, t / with'pleasure this dperiiiMji i the Spirit of Reformanou; whether foreign o|doaie«tic; ami will rejoice in every attempt clpropagate CbrilVuniity in the barbarous parts cthe world An attempt which, if in an toTera]ble degree fi'.ccefahii, will do itifiniirly more fftiieir ptviheatiuti and hapnpiircfs, than- all*9led energies of thofe bonfte.l benefactors of1 biinJ, the philosophic infidels.”Of the ARI/J-JS. 'rhey have rheir name from one Arius, a Ly-i hv birth, ami a preabyter ot Alexandria byfellton. This horely bro^e out under thejptror Con tantine, 290 years after Chrili, andr-ran a great part of the world ; being oppoiednone for forwe time : but the fatuous Athana-: an eminent father of tlie church at that time, "j o computed an admirable'Creed in oppofition‘fir* Arinu doctrine; their errors weretondenm-Jin the Couqcil ot Nice, gather:d, by tiordbu-■ j'e’i appointarent, in the year 1325, after a moltJe! and bloody pev.-Jcnfiou, wherein many tflitjife who oppoied iij (and were therefore calledOrthodox ) suftered martyrdom 1"Arians say, that God is one abfniute being ;;k Jefvts ChrilVis the fir ft and bed of all tire•i’ittcn of God; apd the Holy Ghoft only anJhiudte of Dei tv.I.. . ■ 9Of Armlnran:,They ire so called from James Arminhic, di-uy reader in Leyden, who, in the year 1605,blifiied add maibiSified five artie'es, 'which haveaafh ned great trouble to the church of God,mg eagerly maintained by It's followers, callednonstrants. The five articles ate concei ni gedeltination, redemption, God's grace, fred-u, and the pei itvevance/of the hfiir.s.Of Sscimans'.> ! V- < j-fSo called from one Fsustus Socitnis, an I\v; .of Stena. They place all their religion in cold condemned heresies: following their niastla inoA vile heretic.Amongst other things they hold the doctrlef man’s free will; and A)y, that original finnothing more than the power of bad example; ithat Jesus Christ was the best man that ever rpeared in this world : and was lent by God toc< 'rtct the errors which had crept into the moiworld, that his death was a natural incident; .that God raised him from the dead, tolh.twthat our death is not eternal.Of Ar.iinomiai::.So callrd from two Greek words, which finify against and the law : they fprung up tn*one John Agricola, who affirmed, that the inorj:^aw was altogether needlefs,-and that ChriOia*Rwere not tied to the obiervation thereof. l'i«feet began about the year 1535.■ vOf EjaJHans.So called from Thomas EraAus, a phyficiin iiHeidelberg, in Germany, who held that the civmagifiraie had the supreme power in church ;t0-tf. '2l*' ' 'Of Jesuits|n the yesr XS40, this feet arofe in the clmrchRome, and was continued by Pope Paul ItI.ey were employed as mitfionaries to advanceI Popith rel’gion, for which purpbfe they arewell educated in pbilofophy, fchool divinity,I many other arts and fcience«—rheir founder! one Ignatius Loyola, a Spanilh foldier.Of the Douglafites.,,'hey hold the herefy of the Originifts, and' e German Anabaptitts, viz. that not only thei|ked, but the devils themfelves, after fufteringij torments of hell for an appointed period,II be received into the favour of God, and bele for ever bidled and happy.rs this herely has been long ago condemned,hall only here infert a few anlwers, whiche been given to their tenets by several emi-t divine^ :. They are contrary to 2 Thefj. 1. <7, &c.uufe life eternal, and death eternal, are,•.scripture, oppofed to one another in thee feme, Matt, xxv 48 But life eternal inipture is not taken for being limply eter-d but for being eternally happy, or to be11 biefsed eternal Bate and condition, Pfal.jl-’.iii. 1. Therefore eternal death must bei 1 in Icripture, not for annihilation, or being■ed into nothing, but for an eternal, wretch-lind miserable Aate.1 Becaufe Abraham fays exprefdy, in the pa-’ ■ 7 v •- ,s^' ' '' '; ' ' t'1*ruble, that no man can pafs from the place of tomem to the pl-*ce ©f bid's and hr.ppindfj Lv.lxvi. 2.6-2 The wicked are fuse! to fufFerthe venc.ean*of everlafUOg Tii'e, j uile verfe And u Nowthe aft^med time/’ &c. 2 C‘ir. vi 2-❖ +4- ** <-* ** ** ^P • V ro’, cm;.Iffr*■1Account of the 0; flu of; BURNING HERETICS IN ENGLAND.Tm the year 1401, and refjn of Henry IV. King'if England, it was found that the number of thei mllard , which was the name then generallyi dved to- the WickFiffites. \Vas eoiVtiriual'y in-Sreating, it Was, by the influence of tlie ecclefi-llics, enacted, that none Ihould preach withoutlicence from the Bishop of the Diocese. How¬ever, this, and the other laws in being, wet?j|iought insufficietrt for tire prtoection of theihvirch, and to prevent the growth of herefy.i 'he Clergy were defirous of having a Ihorter avdin Iter metnod of defending the doctrines of theihurch, than by the tedious and difficult one ofifeaton anil ’afgunrent. They therefore wouldlive the king to underfland, that nothing wouldlore attach the Clergy to his interefls than hispo rting himfelf for the protection of the church,/ which was meant* to make a law for theliming of heretics. The King does not appearil have difeovered any great reluctance ; but theitauunons, many of whom thought favourably ofjicklifle, were very averfe to fuch fanguinarylioceedings. An act however was at lengthifleo, empowering the Clergy to the extent ofJeir willies, but this pafied not but with the m->ft ftfetch of the King’s «uth6niy. And Mr24IFox fays, that he cannot find that ever it did paisthe Commons; but fiippofed, that as parliamen¬tary affairs were then managed with little regu¬larity, it was huddled in among other act', and-iigned by the King without further noticei Ic iiindeed by no means improbable, that this actimight be pafsed without the conlent of the Com¬mons, for in this reign we find the lower Houseof Parliament petitioning that no act or ftatutemight pah without their confent. However, itwas now enacted, that upon a certificate of thediocefian BifV.op, or his commifTaries, deliveringthofe who either refused to abjure their herefy.or relapfcd, after abjuration, over to the feculatarm, the civil magistrate fhould receive their bo*dies, and caufe them to be burned in public.William Sautre, a Lollard, and rector of StOfith’*in London, was the firft man who was put tcdeath by this ftatute- Sentence was pronouncedagainft him in the ecclefiaflical court, immediate!)after the act was pafFed, fo eager were they siv proceed to the extirpation of herefy. CFINIS.J. Neilecn, printer