NEW AND IMPROVED SERIES,No. 48.HISTORY OR THESLEEPING BEAUTYIN THE WOOD.GLASGO AV:PRINTED EOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1852.Price One Penny.I ^ OF SCOTLAND fjlZl£38 (. iVOK'I. 1 CIKA W . :,oKYTUAaa oKiaaa.ooow BHT Hir.\' ‘ ' :*•<• : V .x> -• *THE HISTORYOFTHE SLEEPING BEAUTYIN THE WOOD..... —. ■Once upon a time there lived a king and queen who; had no children, which made them very unhappy" indeed. Hoping, by some means or other, to have an. heir, they went to consult all the fairies they could hearj of; vows, pilgrimages, every thing was tried, but withouti success.At length, however, news was proclaimed that thequeen was going to have a child, and soon after she wasbrought to bed of a princess. The christening was themost sumptuous imaginable; and seven fairies, beingall that could be found in the country, were appointed tobe her godmothers, so that each of them might bestowupon her a gift, as was the custom in those days. Bythose means the princess had every possible perfection.When the ceremonies of the baptism were over, allthe company returned to the king's palace, where themost costly entertainment was prepared for the fairies ;before each of them was set a magnificent cover, with acase of massy gold, which contained a knife, a fork, anda spoon, set with diamonds and rubies, and all of. themost curious workmanship.'As the company were going to place themselves atthe table, an old fairy, who for more than fifty yearshad not left the tower she inhabited, and was believedto bo either dead or enchanted, and on that account hadnot been invited to the christening, entered the room.The king immediately ordered a seat to be brought forher, and also a cover ; but it could not bo of massy gold,because only seven had been made, being one each forthe seven fairies.The old fairy, seeing that her cover was not more4than half so magnificent as those of her sister-fairies |thought that th° ^uig had slighted her, and muttemlbetween her teeth that she would be revenged.One of the young fairies who sat next her, and caught,;the sounds that fell from her, fearing that she mighttbestow on the infant princess some unlucky gift, onleaving tho table, went and hid herself behind thevwindow-curtains, so that she might speak last, and thus,repair as much as possible tho injury intended by the?old fairy.In tho meantime, tho fairies began to make their:donations to tho young princess. The first gave her forta gift, that she should bo tho most beautiful lady in alltho world,—the next that she should have the wit of anangel,—tho third, that she should do every thing sheundertook with tho most enchanting grace,—the fourth, !that she should dance so as to delight every beholder,— jthe fifth, that she should sing like a nightingale,—thosixth, that she should play perfectly well on all sorts ofmusical instruments.It being tho old fairy’s turn to speak next, she came iforward shaking with spite, and said,—“The gift I ibestow on the princess shall be, that she shall pierce her [hand with a spindle, and die of the wound.”This terrible gift made the whole assembly tremble, ,and every one but the old fairy fell to crying violently. .Just at this instant, tho young fairy came out from ibehind tho window-curtains, and in a distinct voice pro- ■6nounocd the followiiijf words “ Do not, O king andqueen, thus deeply afflict yourselves ; the princess shallnot die of the wound ; for though I have not the powerwholly to prevent what an older fairy than I has decreed,I can, however, make her gift prove less injurious to theprincess ; accordingly, your daughter shall pierce herhand with a spindle ; but instead of dying of the wound,she shall only tall into a deep sleep, which shall continuefor one hundred years, at the end of which time shoshall bo awakened by a young prince.”The king, thinking to avoid so terrible a misfortune,had it everywhere proclaimed, that no person, on pain’of death, should spin with a spindle, or even keep onein their house.About sixteen years after this, the king and queenbeing at one of their palaces in the country, it happenedthat the young princess was one day running from roomto room to amuse herself; she at length found hor wayto a small apartment at the top of a tower, in which anold woman sat spinning with a spindle (for the poor oldcreature had never heard of the proclamation that hadbeen made against spindles.)hat are you doing, Goody?” said the princess; “Iam spinning, my pretty lady,” replied the old woman,who did not know to whom sho was speaking. “Ah!how I should like to do such pretty work!” continuedthe princess,—“ Pray let mo try.” She had no soonertaken the spindle in her hand than, being very sprightlycand thoughtless, she ran the point of it into her hand,and instantly fell down in a sound sleep. The old \vo«man being greatly frightened, and at a loss what to do,called out for help. Several persons immediately ranto her assistance; they threw cold water on the prin¬cess’s face, cut the lace of her stays, rubbed her handsand temples with Hungary water,—but all to no pur¬pose, for she remained fast asleep.In the meanwhile the king had heard the nows, andhastened to the old woman’s apartment; but, recollect¬ing the gift that had been made her, he very properlyresolved to boar the misfortune with patience, since hecould not overcome the will of a fairy. Accordinglythe king ordered her to be carried to the most sumptu-7us apartment in tlie palace, and! laid on a lied made ofne richest velvet, and ornamented with gold and silver.! The princess, in this situation, appeared so beautiful(hat she might have been taken for an angel, for the:eep sleep into which she had fallen did not the leastnjury to her fine complexion; her cheeks still resembledue most delicate roses, and her lips the finest coral everlien; the only difference being, that her eyes, whichbarkled like diamonds, were now covered by the lids.>ho breathed so softly, that they were quite sure sheli as not dead; and the king commanded that no onejiiould attempt to disturb her repose.The kind fairy who had saved her life by thus con-liemning her to sleep a hundred years, was in the king-liom of Matakin, at a distance of twelve thousandleagues, when the accident happened to the princess;I lie news of it, however, was carried to her in a short time,ty a dwarf who was her friend, and who used his seven(jiagued boots for the purpose ; that is, boots with whichpa could stride over seven leagues of ground at once,fl The fairy immediately set off, and in less than antour, descended in a fiery chariot, drawn by dragons,ii the outer-yard of the palace. The king hastened toe elcome and assist her in getting out of the chariot, andten related what had happened.1 The fairy approved of all the king had done ; butiving a great deal of foresight, she remarked to him,lat the princess, on awaking, would be extremely ter-rifled to find herself alone in so old and gloomy a palace:After thinking a few minutes what could possibly ldone to remedy this inconvenience, she soon hit upon a.expedient; she touched all the persons in the palac.lexcept the king and queen, with her wand ; maids «honour, governesses, waiting-women, gentlemen ushergrooms of the bed-chamber, lords in waiting, steward]cooks, scullions, guards, pages, and footmen, were athrown into a sleep as sound as that of the princess.She touched also with her wand all the horses in tlstables, all the grooms, all the dogs in the stable-yareand even little Bichon, tho princess’s favourite lap-do;iwho lay on the bed by her side: all fell fast asleep, tilthe time should arrive for tho princess to awake, wildthey would bo ready at a moment’s warning to wa<upon her. Even tho very spits, and the partridges anpheasants that were roasting on them, together witthe fire, were all laid asleep ; and all this was concluduin a moment—for fairies are never long in performirthoir feats.The king and queen, after embracing their daughtutenderly, without awaking her, left the palace; anmade a proclamation, that no one, on pain of deanshould daro approach her. Tho king might, howevey .have saved himself this trouble : for in a quarter of ;fhour there sprang up round the palace a vast numb«of trees of all sorts and sizes, bushes and brambles, ftwinjng ono in tho other, that neither man nor beat9Jould Lave made a passage through them. Indeed,lothing but the turrets of the palace wore to be seenibove the thick wood formed by the trees, and evendiese only at a great distance. The fairy in this, no.doubt, employed the whole skill of her art, to preserveahe princess, during her long sleep, from the observa-lion of the curious.L At the end of the hundred years, the son of a reign-[ag king, who was of a different family from that of theleeping princess, happened to pass near the palace asie was hunting, and asked his attendants to whom thourrets and the wood belonged. They each answeredliim agreeably to what ho had heard of tho placo.5ome of them said, it was an old castle that was haunted>y ghosts; others, that all tho witches in the countryissembled in it to hold their nightly meetings ; but theenost common opinion was that it was inhabited by anxgro, who retired within its walls to devour all thechildren he ran away with, where he could eat them•vithout fear of pursuit, since no one but himself could;et through the wood; when an old peasant approacheddm and said,— “ May it please your royal highness, Itivas told more than fifty years ago, by my father, whoH'cai d it from my grandfather, that there was concealedn this palace a princess of most exquisite beauty, who(was condemned by a fairy to sleep a hundred years, andi.was then to be awakened by the son of a king, who wasI o be her husband.”Tho"young prince listened eagerly to this discourseand thought he must he tho prince intended by thefairy to awake her; and, hurried on by gallantry andlove, ho resolved on entering the palace.Scarcely had he reached the wood, before the trees,the bushes, and the brambles, separated of themselvesto let him pass. He proceeded towards the palace,which ho perceived at tho end of a long avenue, andsoon entered it. But what did not a little surprise himwas, that none of his attendants had been able to followhim ; for the trees, bushes, and brambles, again endtwined with each other as soon as he had passed throughthem. Notwithstanding this, he pursued his way to th«palace ; for a young prince in love is-always valiant.He entered a spacious court, where every thing Injsaw might have terrified the stoutest heart in the world! IAll tho men and animals that had been laid asleep werestretched on the ground, and appeared as if they wer*dead, and there was a dreadful silence through all thnalace. After a little time, however, he perceived, bthe red faces of the men-servants, that they were onlfasleep ; and as there was still some beer left in the ootom of their cups, he saw' plainly that they had ialleiasleep while drinking. . , fllThe prince next went through a large court pavetwdth marble, which led to a staircase : this he ascendeoand came to the chamber of the guards, who were a,standing in ranks with their muskets on their shouldent11and snoring with all their might. He con tinned hisi way through several ether apartments, which were filledwith ladies and gentlemen, some sitting, some standing,i but all fast asleep.At length he came to an apartment gilded all overwith gold, in which was a magnificent bed, with thecurtains drawn back, and a young lady about sixteenyears of age, more beautiful than any one ho had everseen. After gazing upon her with the greatest delightfor a few minutes, he could not help falling upon hisknees to her as if she had. been awake.The enchantment of the fairy being thus ended, theprincess opened her eyes, and casting them on theprince with a look of more tenderness than is commonat first sight,—“Is it you, my prince?” said she; “Howlong you have made me wait for you !”The prince, delighted at these words, and still moreat the sweet tone of voice in which she pronouncedthem, was at a loss how to express his gratitude andjoy. Ho assured.her that ho loved her better than hedid himself; and this, with many other expressions oftho same kind, he repeated a thousand and a thousandtimes.The princess on her part was by no means backward;for, though history mentions no such thing, yet we mayvery well suppose that her good friend the fairy causedher during her long sleep to have tho most agreeabledreams. In short, they talked for more than fourhours together, without saying half of what they wished.12“What happiness, beautiful princess!" Said theprince, looking at her with the greatest tendernessimaginable,—“what happiness, to be able to do yousuch a service, to see you smile so sweetly, and to bo 1thus rewarded by your love !—to think that the most wpowerful prince upon the earth could not have per¬formed what I have done, in breaking the cruel enchant¬ment that condemned you to sleep so long!”“ Ah ! dear prince,” replied she, “ I feel that we wero :made for each other. It was you I saw ; it was you fwho were my companion ; and during my long sleep Ithought of no ono hut you. I knew very well that the that should end my enchantment would bo tho Ihandsomest of men, that ho would lovo mo more than Ihimself, and the moment I cast my eyes upon you I !knew you perfectly.”13In the meanwhile all the attendants who had beenasleep the same time as the princess, were awaked, andhad set about their Imsiness ; but as they were not,like the princess, in love, they found themselves ex¬tremely hungry, for it was very long since they hadeaten any thing. The first maid of honour, who was assharp set as the rest, even ventured to tell the princess,without any ceremony, that the dinner was served.The prince then assisted tho princess to rise. Shewas ready dressed, and in the most magnificent clothesimaginable ; but he took great care not to tell her thatthey were like those of his great-grandmother, and thatshe had a ruff round her neck, which, however, did notin the least diminish her beauty.He took her hand, and conducted her to the room inwhich tho dinner was served ; as soon as they had seatedthemselves at table, the musicians, who were in readinesswith their instruments, began to play some airs, which,though they were out of fashion, were nevertheless ex¬tremely agreeable.The prince and princess passed the evening delightedwith each other’s company, and as a long courtship wasnot necessary, they agreed to bo married that very night.Tho lord almoner was consulted, and he consented toperform the ceremony, provided the chapel could bo gotready (for it was very dusty, and full of cobwebs.)There were plenty of hands willing to bo employed ou14such an occasion, so that the chapel tfas soon swept, the icrimson velvet hangings neatly brushed, and the books inicely dusted.When all was ready, my lord almoner led the way in Ihis canonical robes, with his mitre on his head, andpreceded by half a dozen servants in the richest liveriesthat can be imagined, bearing each a lighted torch,—then followed six beautiful boys in white surplices, withcensers in their hands, perfuming the air with the mostaromatic sweets,—after them followed the prince andprincess, hand in hand ; they walked in silence, but thedelight which sparkled in their eyes showed how wellpleased they were,—next followed the maids of honour,the gentlemen and ladies of the bed-chamber, the lordsin waiting, and in short the whole court. They wereall magnificently dressed, but, as you may suppose, theirclothes were rather old-fashioned. So soon as the cere¬mony was performed, they returned to a magnificentbanquet where the company enjoyed themselves to avery late hour.The next morning, the prince reflected that he hadbeen guilty of a very great fault in marrying withouthaving previously asked the consent of his parents;he was in great perplexity how he should get over thisreprehensible act of disobedience, and at last concludedthat he would say nothing about it, until a favourableopportunity offered; not but what he could readily haveobtained the pardon of the king his father, who was avery good and benevolent man, but the queen hismother was descended from the race of cannibal giantscalled Ogres ; and though some generations had passed,she still retained their horrid inclinations, and had allthe difficulty in the world, when she saw little childrenpass to refrain from falling on them, and eating them up.The prince, therefore, resolved not to say one word athome of his marriage, and took the opportunity, underpretence of hunting, to visit his beautiful princess threeor four times a-week. He lived in this way some years,and had in that time two children ; the eldest of which,who was a daughter, was named Morning, and theyoungest, who was a son, they called Day, because howas much handsomer and more beautiful than his sister.315The queen, suspecting that these frequent huntings,at all seasons, was only a pretence to colour some otherengagements, had the prince watched, and found thathe always left his party when he came to the wood,and retired into it; she therefore resolved, the very firstopportunity she had, to unriddle the mystery. Anopportunity soon offered—for the emperor fjantalabuttehaving declared war against the king, the prince wasappointed generalissimo, and went at the head of thearmy to defend the kingdom against this powerful ad¬versary.The queen, as soon as the prince was departed, lostno time in going to the wood, entered it,—and soon ar¬rived at the castle, and, pretending to he much fatigued,asked leave to rest herself, which the young princessnot only readily granted, but ordered refreshments tohe set before her. The queen made herself known, andthe princess, in the height of her surprise, could nothelp exclaiming,—“ What! the mother of my prince, ofmy adored husband ? ” An explanation soon ensued.The queen then asked to see the children, which werebrought to her. Their beautiful white skins and tenderyears made the Ogreish queen’s mouth to water andeyes to twinkle, and it was with much ado she refrainedfrom giving them a hite, when she took them up to kissthem. The queen soon after took her leave, promisingthe princess that she would procure her pardon of theking, and come in a few days and take her from thatold ruinous castle, as she was pleased to style it, andintroduce her at court. But it was far from the inten¬tions of this wicked cannibal to mention the affair to theking, who certainly would have protected the princessand his grand-children : what she said was only a stra¬tagem to get them into her power. In a few days thequeen came again in a close carriage, saying that theking wished to receive his daughter-in-law and grand¬children in a private manner, previous to introducingthem at court.The princess readily entered the carriage with herchildren ; and the queen, instead of carrying her to thecourt, brought her to a little country-house she had,situated in a deop glen, entirely surrounded with woods1Cand rocks. Here tho (Jtieen resolved to gratify her hor¬rible longings. She was, however, obliged to defer thispleasure for a few days, because her cook was not yetarrived, nor had she prepared the sauce which sheusually had at these delicious feasts.In about a week the queen made another excursionto her country-house, taking with her the sauce and thocook. Having paid her respects to the princess, andkissed the children, she called the cook aside, and saidto him,—“ I have a mind to eat little Morning for mydinner to-morrow!” “Ah! madam,” cried the cook,“pray consider the pretty creature is your grand-daugh¬ter.” “ I will have it so,” replied the queen in an angrytone, “ fail not at your peril; and let her be well sea¬soned, and with plenty of my favourite sauce.” Thepoor man, knowing very well that he must not playtricks with Ogresses, took his great knife, and went upinto little Morning’s chamber very early the next day,intending to kill her before breakfast; but the prettylittle girl, who, thinking that ho had brought her somesugar-candy, ran up to him, jumping and laughing, andcaught him round the neck. This so affected the poorman that he could not refrain from tears ; so, insteadof killing her, he carried her to a little room he had attho bottom of the garden, and killed a little lamb, anddressed it so excellently, that his mistress assured himshe had never eaten any thing so good in her life. A ssoon as the wicked queen returned home in the evening,tho cook carried little Morning to the castle in thowood, which had been abandoned by its inhabitantsafter the princess had left it, and brought his wife andservant to attend her.About eight days afterwards, the queen paid themanother visit, and told tho cook that she would eat littleHay. He returned no answer, being resolved to cheather as he had done before ; so, after hiding little Day,lie killed a young kid, which he cooked so very nicely,that tho Ogress was quite delighted with it.When the queen was gone, he also conducted littleDay to his wife in tho old castle. This was hithertoall well: on her next visit, this wicked queen said tohim,—“ I will eat tho young princess with the same173sauce I liad with her children. It was now that thepoor cook despaired of being able to deceive her ; and,to save his own life, he resolved to kill the princess. Inorder to execute his purpose, ho put himself into a greatpassion, and rushed into her chamber with a daggerdrawn ; but, on seeing the princess, he respectfully toldher the orders he had received from the wicked queen,—“ Come, do it, do it!” said she, “ and then I will goto my poor children whom I love so dearly.” “ No, no,madam,” cried the poor cook, all in tears, “ you shallnot die ; and you shall see your children again ; onlyconceal yourself until the queen is gone, and I will takeyou to them.” The princess was overjoyed at this un¬expected news, and promised to keep herself very close.The cook then went and dressed in her stead a younghind, which the queen had for her supper, and devouredit with the same appetite as if it had been the youngprincess. Delighted with her cruelty, she then inventeda story to deceive her son ; and, as she returned homo,she caused it to be noised about that the wood in whichthe castle was situated was infested by a banditti, whomurdered and destroyed every one that came in theirway.In the meantime, the cook, so soon as the queen wasdeparted, carried the princess to her children. Thetransports of this amiable mother, and the caresses ofher aflectionate children, were without bounds; but,alas ! their troubles were not yet at an end. The queen,soon after her arrival at home, found that a peace wasnearly concluded, and expecting her son, found, inorder to deceive him, she had no time to lose ; shetherefore took the soldiers and entered the castle to seethat all was as she left it. On her approach she heardthe sound of voices, and then bursts of laughter; shocrept softly to an open window, and peeping in, saw theprincess, her two children, the cook and his wife, play¬ing at blind-man’s-buff, while the maid-servant waslooking on and laughing. She uttered such a terribleyell that it struck horror to their hearts; they instantlystopped their merriment, and instinctively turned theireyes to the window, when they encountered the furiouslooks and imp-like gestures of the Ogress queen. Sho18then called for her guards with an enraged voice, who, ,supposing she was surrounded by the banditti, ran toher assistance in haste. She commanded them instantlyto strip and bind the princess, her two children, thecook, his wife, and their maid. She then ordered thelargo brewing copper to bo filled with oil, and a fire tobo lighted under it, intending, as soon as it boiled, toput them all in, as the most cruel death she could devise.While the oil was heating, she exulted over her unfor¬tunate victims, every now and then pricking them withpins, and enjoying the pain it put them to. The oilwas now on the point of boiling, and the poor creaturesexpected in a few minutes that they should be plungedinto it. The queen approached the copper in order totry if the oil was sufficiently heated for her diabolicalpurpose, when the princess took the opportunity ofkneeling down with her children to implore the divinemercy. At this awful moment, a sudden cry of “ Makeway ! make way ! ” was heard ; when instantly, on ahorse all covered with foam, entered the prince; he wasstruck with astonishment at seeing his amiable wife andlovely children in this situation. The queen, overcomewith rage, disappointment, and shame, instantly threwherself headlong into the boiling oil, which she had in¬tended for her victims, and died in great agonies. Theprince could not but be very sorry, for she was hismother, although an Ogress. He, however, comfortedhimself in the reflection that ho had so opportunelysaved his dear wife and children. He now resolved totake his family to court, where they arrived the nextday. The king received them very aftectionately, andbeing much hurt at the ill conduct of the deceasedqueen, and, convinced of his son’s ability to govern, by theable manner that he negotiated the peace, he resignedhis crown to him, and retired to a palace he had in thecountry. The prince and princess, now king and queen,lived long and happy, and were succeeded by little Day,who became a great king, and who took care, by theexample of his father, not to marry without the consentof his parents.\CHARLES AND JOHN,AND mELITTLE DOG WORTHY.Cb“>“ “,at of the other John. Wron" he alwaysf Charles did any thing , * about any thingjl his parents of it; and, w en a truth ; sohad said or done, he was suro t0 ^“ody • hut alld this good W-^toSd not believe a word\o knew his brother Jon , ni o, g0 many lies,said, he was in the practice of hohen he was (fofhe never told hisd not do as his ^oth6r,5*dc, At oned about it, hothinsa °f which hoTrt, „„ of toiog p— »"«*“ohn always told so many 1 » Besides, he was ajss of what he had been gu >. le.ist pajn ; hutreat coward, and could ne • g 1joyj and couldns brother Charles was a j[e Was never'ear punishment for his J f” tho little faults ho"mSi: St, brothe? John for .ho ho, he toldvhen they were found out. . tn„B+her one even-These ^^SXsflheir mother was engagedKa^XgCm, and ^r f^was not^n ^and** John together * but^only Worthy, a little dog, whichwas lying by tho side 0[.t'10 ; e piayful creature.This little dog, AVorthy, was a nice p^ay( ^and both th. “1, to “ S', the fire there,S t,’™ to ^with us.”20“ Willi all my heart,” said Charles; and botUboys ran to the fireside to awaken the little dog.there was standing upon the hearth a basin of milk, [as they did not observe it, (for it was placed be|them,) they began to make rare fun in playing withdog ; but unfortunately they kicked over the basin 'their feet, and broke it, and the whole milk ran ithe hearth and all around on the floor.Now, when the little boys saw what had happen .they were very much alarmed, and sorry for what thad done ; but not knowing what to do, they for sctime stood staring at the mishap they had occasionwithout speaking one word. At last John spin“ Alas !” said he, “ we shall have no milk for suppernight!” and he gave a deep sigh.“No milk for supper to-night!—for what reason;replied Charles. “ Is there no more milk in the house“ Yes, but we shall have none of it; for don’t y.remember that mamma, the last time wo spilled titmilk, said, should the like happen in our hands agaiitwo should have none for supper that night?”“If that is the case,” said Charles, “we must gwithout it, that’s all; there is no great harm in wantinmilk for once. In the meantime let us tell mammiwhat has happened; so come away, John.”“Well, so I will; but where’s all the hurry; can’lyou stop a little?” Charles did so; but still Jobspleaded for delay, saying, “ He was so afraid he coulunot go.”Children, both boys and girls, I advise you never tcseek for excuses of this kind; never say, “Stop aminute, or stop a little,” for reparations of faults cannot,bo made too soon.Well, hear what happened to John :—The longer helingered the more unwilling he felt to accompany hisbrother Charles ; at last he pulled his hand awav fromhim, positively refusing to acknowledge his share in the ||spilling of the milk, saying, “ That his brother might I!go himself, for he should not.’*“So I shall,” said Charles; “and I only waited for tyou that I might put you in humour—thinking you iwould like to toll mamma the truth in this matter.”“ The truth!” replied John, “ I don’t wish to deny it;hut it is time enough when one is asked ; mamma willsee the milk when she comes here.”Charles waited no longer, hut set off himself in searchof his mother, whom he expected to find in the nextroom ironing; hut as she was not there he ran off tothe garden, under the notion that ho should find herthere.John being now left alone, began to cast about howhe should get himself out of the scrape. “ If we wereboth,” thought he, “to say that we were not concernedin spilling the milk, mother would be sure to believe us,and there would be no more of the matter.”While he was contriving these excuses, he heard hismother coming up the stair—“Oh, oh!” said he, “ somamma has not been in the garden after all, andCharles has not soon her; now I may say what Iplease.”So this cowardly sneaking boy resolved to tell hismamma a downright falsehoodOf course, when she entered the room, her eye im-: mediately caught the broken dish and the spilled milk.' “ Pray, John,” said she, “ what has been the cause ofI this?”“I don't know, ma’am,” said John.“You don’t know ?—I think you do know; and if suchI is the case, you had better at once tell the truth—you[ know how often I have cautioned you against telling' fibs. The worst is, should you have spilled the milk,■ that you will lose a part of your supper ; hut ratherthan tell a lie I would sooner you had broken fiftybasins ; so I ask you again,—John, did you spill the' milk?”“ No, ma’am,” again repeated John, in a low tone ofvoice, while he coloured up to the ears.“ Then where’s Charles? did he do it?”“No,” said John, “he did not;” for he had somethoughts that when Charles appeared, he would bopersuaded to back him in his naughty falsehood.“And how do you know,” rejoined his mother, “thatCharles did not do it?”“ Why, mamma—because—because,” and here John22stammered and hesitated so, that his guilt was quiteevident—“ because I was in the room all the time, anddid not see him do it.”Being farther questioned, John went on from one Hotto another ; at last he said he supposed the dog did it.“ Did you see Worthy do it ?”“ Yes,” said this wicked boy.“Fie, fie. Worthy!” said John’s mother, “so it isyou that is in the fault! I must really chastise you.”She then ordered John to get her a switch.John ran to the garden to get a switch, and on hisway met Charles returning, to whom he told what hadhappened, begging him not to expose him, but to saywhat he had done.“No, I sha’n’t tell a lie,” said Charles, “and havepoor Worthy beat into the bargain. I shall tell mammathe whole truth.”They ran into the house, John striving to preventCharles from telling his mother. John threw in theswitch, and, being somewhat stronger, he kept Charlesback. In the meantime the switch was just about tofall on poor Worthy’s back, when Charles, who hadmade his way round by the window, called out to her tostop. He then told the story just as it happened.At the same moment John’s father came in sight, 1and being told what had happened, he snatched up theswitch, for what purpose John easily foresaw; so, fall¬ing on his knees, he besought him for mercy, cryingout ho should never again be guilty of telling lies.“But I shall whip you now,” said his father, “andwe shall see how you keep your word for the future.” 1So John was whipt, till he roared out so that the wholeneighbourhood heard him.“ There now,” said his father, “is the reward of dis- ;obedience and wickedness—you have got a sound whip¬ping, and you shall besides go to your bed supperless.See how liars are served !” Then, turning to Charles, ihe said, “ Charles, as for you, I shall keep my word sofar as to deprive you of milk to-night; that for once iseasily home ; but as a compensation, and to mark mysatisfaction with your behaviour, I make you a presentof Worthy; he will be to you a kind and afi'ectionate23Servant, and it will be your part to use him well,henceforward he shall be called Charles! and, wife,i.-henever you are asked by any of the neighbouringihildren why Worthy’s name is changed to Charles, tellhem the story of the two boys : they will then see howufforently it fares between a liar and a boy who tellsho truth.”SOLEMN PROHIBITION^Mr. Walter Ross, writer to the signet, Edinburgh,'jy way of protecting his property from midnightmarauders, published the following handbill:—“ Thouhalt not steal! All persons whom it may concern are-desired to take notice that steel traps, of the largestsize, for catching breakers of the eighth commandment,•ire every night placed in the garden of St. Bernard’sbetween Stockbridge and the Water of Leith, on thenorth side of the water; that spring-guns are set to.rake the walls with shot upon tho touch of a wire, and■(that a tent, having in it an armed watchman, is pitchedin the middle, with orders to fire without mercy. If,therefore, any evil-disposed person or persons shall.ttempt to break into the grounds of St. Bernard’s,(their blood be upon their own heads !—Amen.”This seemed very well for some time ; but, at length,a suspicion arose that the arrangements were all of a^fictitious nature, and the boys and blackguards of thelicity began to pick up their scattered courage. Onlearning that such was the state of matters, Mr. Ross^adopted the strangest expedient that could perhaps;have entered the head of a country gentleman. Ho■procured a limb of a corpse from the Royal Infirmary,dressed it in a stocking, shoe and buckle, and sent it.through the streets of the city with the public crier, pro-Iclaiming that it had been found last night in the groundstat St. Bernard’s, and that it would be restored to tho'(owner on being properly vouched. The garden of St.< Bernard’s was no more broken.HISTORIES, RELIGIOUS TRACTS, SONG BOOKS, &cPrice CUE PENNY each.SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.:MISCEiLIiAXtfEOtTS.1.2.S.4.5.6.7.8.910.11.12.13.14.15.10.17.18.19.20.21.22.23.24.25.26.27.28.29.80.31.The Anecdote Book.The Scrap Book.The Story Teller.The Book of Fate.The Fortune Teller.The Dream Interpreter.The Way to Wealth.The Medical Guide.The Family Receipt Book.The Sentimental Reciter.The Comic Reciter.The Letter Writer.The Valentine Writer, Love.— — Comic.Fireside Amusements.Outdoor Amusements.The Maid Servant’s Guide.The Art of Preserving Health.Domestic Cookery.The Magic Oracle.Life of Ambrose Gwinnett.Readings for Winter Evenings.Popular Irish Stories.Irish Tales and Legends.Life of Louis Philippe.Life of Sir Robert Peel.Life of the Duke of Wellington.Life of Napoleon.The Spectre Bridegroom, &c.Amusing Irish Stories.The Exiles of Siberia.32. Life of Rob Roy.33. Toast Master’s Companion.34. Life of Robin Hood, with cuts,35. Life of Robert Burns.30. Life of Sir William Wallace.37. Life of Robert Bruce.38. History of Prince Charles Stuartt39. Paul and Virginia.40. Robinson Crusoe, with cuts.41. Sindbad the Sailor, with cuts.42. Blue Beard, with cuts.43. Whittington and his Cat, tcUhcttM44. Sovereigns of Gt. Britain, wiMcw&ih45. Cinderella, with cuts.40. Jack the Giant Killer, with cuts. 147. The Yellow Dwarf, with cuts.48. The Sleeping Beauty, with cuts, f49. The Universal Riddler, with cuts*}50. The Little Deserter, with cuts. |51. The Babes in the Wood, with cuts.*52. The Pictorial Alphabet, withcutSA53. jEsop’s Fables, with cuts.54. Games and Amusements,55. The New Year’s Gift, with cuts.56. The Poetical Alphabet, with cuts.57. Barbauld’s Lessons, with cuts.58. Ali Baba, or the 40 Thieves, cuts.'.59. Alladin, or the Wondf. Lamp, cuts.60. The Life of Lord Nelson.61. The Small Preceptor.62. The Child’s AssistantREXiZGXOUS.81. The Juvenile Prayer Boole.82. The Private Prayer Book.83. The Family Prayer Book.84. The History of the Jews.85. The Destruction of Jerusalem.80. Religious Anecdotes.87. Scripture Stories.88. Sketch of all Religions.89. History of the Bible, with cuts.90. The Life of Christ.91. The Life of St. Paul.92. The Life of John Knox.93. The Life of Dr Chalmers.94. Watts’s Divine Songs, with cuts.95. Sacred Histoiy.96. Joseph and his Brethren.97. Histoiy of Moses.98. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.99. Lives of the Apostles.100. The Pilgrim’s Progress, icithcuts.101. The Shorter Catechism.102. The Mother’s Catechism.SOKTGS.1. The Scottish Minstrel, 1st series.2.8.4.5.&2d3d4th5th6th7. The English Minstrel, 1st —8.9.10.11.12.2d3d4th5th0thOthers in Preparation.IS. The Irish Minstrel, 1st series.14. — _ 2d —15. — — 3d —1G. — — 4th —17. The Comic Minstrel, 1st —18. — — 2d —IS). - _ s,l —20. — — 4th —21. — — 6th —22. — _ Gth —23. The Xegro Minstrel, 1st —24. - - 2d -