N A R R A TI V ECF THEBattles of Drumclog,BOTHWELL BRIDGE;The former fought on the 1st, and the latter on the 22dof June, 1679.Between the King's Troops, and theCovenanters.BY THE LAIRD OF TORFOOT,An Officer in the Presbyterian Army.KILMARNOCK:Printed by H. Craivjord Scoheller.The Battle of Drumclog,The following Account of the Battles of Drumclog,nnd Bothwell Bridge, is taken from an AmeiicanNewspaper, the ‘ National Gazette.’ It is writ¬ten by the Laird of Torfoot, an officer in thePresbyterian army, whose estate is at this dayin the possession of his lineal descendants of thefifth generation.« TT was on a fair Sabbath morning, 1st June,X 1679, that an assembly of Corenanters satdown on the heathy mountains of Drumclog. Wehad assembled not to fight, but to worship theGod of our fathers. We were far from the tumultof cities.—The long dark heath waved around us ;and we disturbed no living creatuies, saving thepees-weep and the heather-cock. A s usual, we hadcome armed. It was for self-defence. For desper¬ate and ferocious bands made bloody raids throughthe country, and, pretending to put down treason,they waged war against religion and morals. Theyspread ruin and havoc over the face of bleedingScotland-The venerable Douglas had commenced the so-lemnities of the day He was expatiating on theexecrable evils of tyranny. Our souls were on fileat the remembrance of our country’s sufferings, andthe wrongs of the church. la this moment of in-stense feeling, our watchman posted on the neigh¬bouring height fired his carabine, and ran towarclthe Congregation He announced the approachof the enemy. VVe rahed our eyes to the minister.“ I have done,” said Douglas, with his usual firm¬ness—“ You have got the theory,—now for thepractice; you know your duty; self-defence is al¬ways lawful. But the enemy approaches.” Heraised his eyes to heaven and uttered a prayer—-brief and emphatic,—like the prayer of P.ichardCameron, “ Lord, spare the green, and take theripe.”The officers collected their men, and placedthemselves each at the head of those of his owadistrict. Sir Robert Hamilton placed the foot inthe centre, in three ranks. A company of horse,well armed and mounted, was placed on the left;and a small squadron also on the left. These weredrawn back, and they occupied the more solidground ; as well with a view to have a more firmfooting, as to arrest any flanking party that mighttake them on the wings. A deep morass lay betweenus and the ground of the enemy. Our aged men, ourfemales, and children, retired; but they retiredslowly. They had the hearts and the courage ofthe females and children in those days of intensereligions feeling, and of suffering They mani¬fested more concern for the fate of relatives, for thefate of the church, than for their own personalsafety. As Claverhouse descended the oppositemountain, they retired to the rising ground in therear of our host. The aged men walked with meirbonnets in hand Their long grey locks waved inthe breeze. They sang a cheering pselm. Themusic was that of the well-known tune of “ TheMartyrsand the sentiment breathed defiance--The music floated down on the wind,—our mengave them three cheers as they fell into their ranks.4Never JiJ 1 witness such animation in the looks ofmen. For me, my spouse and my little children-vere in the rear. My native plains, and the hallsmy father, far below, in the dale of Aven, werein full vi ew, from the heightbs which we occupied.My country seemed to raise her voice—the bleedingchurch seemed to wail aloud. ‘ And these,1 I said,asClavers and his troops winded slowly down thedark mountain’o side, ‘ these are the unworthyslaves, and bloody executioners, by which the tyr¬ant completes our miseries.1Hamilton here displayed the hero. His portlyfigure was seen hastening from rank to rank. Heinspired courage into our raw and undisciplinedtroops. The brave Hackstone, and Hail of Haugh-head, stood at the head of the foot, and re-echoedthe sentiments ol their Ch;ef. Burley and Cielandhad inflamed the minds of the horsemen on the leftto a noble enthusiasm. My smalj troop on theright needed no erhortation ; we tvere a band ofbrothers, resolved to conquer or fail.Tire trumpet of Clavers sounded a loud note ofdefiance—the kettle drum mixed its tumultuous roll— they halted—they made a long pause. We couldsee an officer with four file, conducting 15 personsfrom the ranks, to a knoll on their left. I couldperceive one in black : it was my friend King, theC uaplain of Lord Cardross, who had been taken byClavers at Hamilton. ‘ Let them be shot throughthe head,* said Clavers, in his usual dry way, < ifthey should offer to run away.1 We could see himview our position with great care. His officerscame around him. We scon learned that he wishedto treat with us. He never betrayed symptoms ofpaercy or of justice, nor offered terms of reconcili¬ation, unless when he dreaded that he had met hismatch j and, even then, it was only a manoeuvreto gain time, or to deceive. His flag approached5the edge of the bog. Sir Robert held a flag sac*red ; had it been borne by Clarers himself, he hadhonoured it. He demanded the purpose for whichhe came. ‘ I come,’ said he, ‘ in the name of hissacred Majesty, and of Colonel Grahame, to offeryou a pardon, on condition that you lay down yourat ms, and deliver up your ringleaders.’—* I eil yourofficer,’ said Sir Robert, ‘ that we are fully awareof the deception he practises. He is not clothedwith any powers to treat, nor was he sent cut totreat with us, and attempt a reconciliation. .TheGovernment lagainst whom w e have risen, refusesto redress our grievances, or to restore to us ourliberties. Had the tyrant wished to render us jus¬tice, he had not sent by the hand of such a feroci¬ous assassin as Claverhouse. Let him, however,shew his powers, and we refuse not to treat ; andwe shall lay down cur arms to treat, provided thathe also lay down his Thou hast my answer.’—‘ It is a perfectly hopeless case,’ said Burley, whilehe called alter the flag.Bearer—‘ Let me add oneword, by your leave, General. Get thee up tothat bloody dragoon, CLvers, and tell him, thatwe will spare his hfe, and the lives of his troops,on condition that he, your Clavers, lay down hitsarms, and the arras of these troops. We will domore, as we have-no prisoners or. these wild moun¬tains, we will even let him go on his parole', on con¬dition that he swear never to lift aims against thereligion and the liberties of his country.' A loudburst of applause re-echoed from the ranks ; and,after a long pause in deep silence, the army sungthe following verses’df a psalm :—‘ There, arrows of the bow he brake ;The shield, the svv-ord, the war.More glorious thou than hills of prey,M ue excellent’ate far.Those that were s:cut of heart are spoil’Ji,'I'hejr slept their sleep outright;And none of those their hands did find,Thai were the men of might."When the report was made to Claverhouse, hejave the word with a savage ferocity, ‘ Their bloodbe on their own heads. Be—no quarter—the w ordthis day.’ His fierce dragoons raised a yell, and• No quarter/ re-echoed from rank to rank, whilethey galloped down the mountain’s side. It is stat¬ed, that Burleigh was heard to say, ‘ Then be it so—-even let there he ‘ no quarters’—at least in my w ingof the host. So God send me a meeting/ ciied healoud, ‘ with that chief under the white plume.—My country would bless my memory, could mys-word give his villainous carcase to the crows.Our raw troops beheld with firmness the ap¬proach of the foemen; and at the moment whenthe enemy halted to fire, the whole of our footdropped on the heath Not a man was seen downwhen the order was given to rise, and return thefire. The first rank fired, then kneeled down, whiletire second fired. They made each bullet tell Asof;en as the lazy rolling smoke was carried overthe enemy’s heads, a shower of bullets fell on hisranks. Many a gallant man tumbled on the heath.The fire was incessant. It resembled oue blazingsheet of flame, for several minutes, along the lineof the Covenanters. Clavers attempted to crossthe morass,' and break our centre. ‘ opearmen ! tothe front,’—I could hear the deep-toned voice ofHamilton say—• Kneel, and place your spears toreceive the enemy’s cavalry ; and you, my gallantfellows, fire—God and our Country is our word.’—Our officers flew from rank to rank. Not a peasant gave way that day. As the cmoN rolled off,wc could see Clavers urging on his men with the7violence of despair. His troops fell in heaps aroandhim, and still the gaps were filled up. A galledtrooper would occasionally flinch; but ere he couldturn or flee, the sword of Clavers was waving overhis head. I could see him, in his fury, strike bothman and horse. In the fearful carnage, he himselfsometimes reeled. He would stop snort in themidst of a movement, then contradict his own or¬ders, and strike the man, because he could notcomprehend his meaning.He ordered flanking parties to take us on ourright and left. “ In the name of God,” cried he,“ cross the bog, and charge them on the flanks, tillwe get over this morass. If this fail, we are lost.”It now fell to my lot to come into action —Hitherto we had fired only some distant shor. Agallant officer led his band down to the borders ofthe swamp, in search of a proper place to cross.We threw ourselves before nim A severe firingcommenced. My gallant men fired with greatsteadiness, We could see many tumbling iromtheir saddles. Not content with repelling the foe-men, we found our opportunity to cross, and at¬tack them sword in hand. The Captain, whosename I afterwards ascertained to be Arrol, threwhimself in my path. In the first shock, 1 discharg¬ed my pistols. His sudden start in Ins saddle, toldme that one of them had taken effect. With oneof the tremendous oaths of Charles 11 , he closedwith me. He fired his steel pistol. 1 was in frontof him ;—My sword glanced on the weapon, andgave a direction to the bullet, wh'ch saved my life.By this time, my men had driven the enemy be¬fore them, and had left the ground clear for thesingle combat. As he made a lounge at my breast,I turned Ins sword aside, by one ot those sweepingblows, which are rather the dictate of a kind ofinstinct of self-defence, than a movement of art,—8As 6Ur sit-okes redoubled, my anrajroiiht's darkfeatures put on a look of deep and settled ferocity.No man who has not encountered the steel of hisenemy, in the field of battle, can conceive the looksand the manner of the warrior, in the moments ofhis intense feelings. Iv^ay l never witness themagain!—We fought in silence. My stroke Ml onhis left shoulder ; it cut the belt of his carabine,which fell to the ground. His blow cut me to therib, glanced along the bone, and rid me also of theweight of my carabine. He had now advancedtoo near me to be struck with the sword I grasp¬ed him by the collar. I pushed him backwards fand, with an entangled blow of my Ferrara, Istruck him across his throat. It cut only the strapof his head-piece, and it fell off. With a suddenspring, he sei/.ed me by the sword belt. Oar hor-ses reared, and we both came to the gj-ouod. Werailed on the heath in deadly conflict. It was inthis Situation of matters, that my brave feliows hadreturned from the rout of the flanking party, tolook after their commander. One of them was ac¬tually rushing on my antagonist, when I called onhim to retire. We starred to our feet, E tc.h graso-ed his sword. We closed in confl ct again. Afterparrying strokes of mine enemy which indicated ahellish ferocity, 1 told him my object was to takehim prisoner t that sooner than kill him, f shouldorder my men to seize him. “ Sooner let my soulbe brandered on my ribs in hell," said he, “ thanbe captured by a Whigam >re. * Wo quarter' is theword of my Colonel, and my word- Have at thee,Whig—I dare the whole of you to the combat."—“ Leave the madman to me—leave the field in¬stantly,” said I to my party, whom I could hardlyrestrain. My sword fell on his right shoulder.—His sword chopped fiom his hand—[ lowered mysword, and offered him his life. ‘ No quarter,’^aielhe, wit’> ^ slitiffJt of hi3s\?orii, which 1 held in. any hao^-, ^nd mad^ a.loang'iat my breast. I parried hip bh^ws till he VW nearlyexhausted ; but, gathyiing up his huge limbs, hfput forth all his energy in a thrust at rny heart.—r-My Andro Ferrara received it, so as to weaken itsdeadly force ; but it made a deep cut. ,-Though Iwas faint with loss of blood* I left hirp r-0 timefor another blow. My sword glanced on his shoul¬der. cut tHr-u ;li his buff coat, and skin, and flesh;swept through his jaw. and laid open his throatfrom ear to ear. The fire of his ferocious eye wasquenched in a moment. He reeled, and fallinp;with a terrible clash, lie poured out his soul, witha torreat of blood, on the he^th- 1 sunk down,insensible for a moment- My faithful men, whonever lost sight of me raised me up- Ip the Sarc'-combat, the soldier suffers most- ftom thirst. 1stooped down, to fill my helmet with the waterwhich oozed through the morass. It was deeplytinged with human blood, which flowed in the con¬flict above me. I started back with •hpiror; andGawn Witherspoon bringing up my steed, we setforwaid in the tumult of the battle.All this v/hile, the storm of war had raged onear left. Cleland and the fierce Burley had charp~ed the strong company sent to flank them. Theseofficers permitted them to cross the swamp, thencharged them with a terrible ishout. ‘ No quarterscried the dragoons. ‘ Be no quarter to you, then,ye murderous loons,’ cried Burley ; and at. oneblow he cut their leader through the steel cap, andscattered his brains on his followers. His everyblow overthrew a foeman. Their whole forceswere now brought up, nnd they dteve the dtagoo-r.jof Cluvers into the swamp. They rolled over eachother. All stuck fast. The Covenantets dismount¬ed, and fought on foot. They left not one man tobear the tidings to tlieir Colonel.The firing of the platoons hadjong ago ceased,snd the dreadful srork of death was carried on bythe sword. At this moment, a trumpet was heardin the rear of our army. There was an awful pause,all looked up. It was only the gallant CaptainNesbit, and his guide, Woodburn of Mains: he hadno teinforcements for us, but himself was a host.'With a loud huzza, and flourish of his sword, heplaced himself by the side cf Burley, and cried.* lump the ditch, and charge the enemy.’ He andBurley struggled through the marsh. The menfollowed as they could. They formed, and marchedon the enemy’s right flank.At this instant, Hamilton and Hackstone broughtforward the u hole line of infantry in front. 1 Godend cur Country’ re-echoed fn m all the ranks.—‘ Ao qunrtnt' said the fierce squadrons of Clavers.■—Here commenct d a bloody scene.I se'zed the opportunity this moment offered toire, of making a movement to the left of the enemy,to save my friend King and the other prisoners—We came in time to save them. Our swords speedi¬ly seve-red the ropes which tyranny had bound onthe arms of the men. The weapons of the fallenfoe supplied what was lacking of arms; and withgreat vigour w'e moved forward to charge the ene.my on the left flank. Claverhouse formed a hol¬low square—himself in the centre; his men foughtgallantly; they did all that soldiers could do intheir situation. Wherever a gap was made, Claversthrust the men forward, and speedily filled it up.Three times he rolled headlong on the heath, as he'hastened from rank to rank, and as often he re¬mounted. My Itttle band thinned his ranks. Hepaid us a visit. Here 1 distinctly saw the featuresand shape cf this far-famed man. He was sn ailof stature, and not well formed; his arms werelong in proportion to his legs; he had a complexion11unusually daik ; his features were not lighted uj»with spiightliness, as some fabulously reported :they seemed gloomy as hell; his cheeks were lankand deeply furrowed ; his cye-brows were drawndown, andgatheied into a kind of knot at their junc¬tions, and thrown up at their extremities; they ha J,in short, the strong expression given by our pain¬ters to those on the face of Judas Iscariot; his eyeswere hollow ; they had not the lustre of geryus, northe fire of vivacity ; they were lighted up by thatdaik fire of wrath which is icindled and fanned byan internal anxiety, and consciousness of criminaldeeds; his irregular and large teeth were presentedthrough a smile, which was very unnatural on hisset of features; his month seemed to be unusuallylarge, from the extremities being drawn backwardand downward—as if in the intense application tosomething cruel and disgusting ; in short, his up¬per teeth projected over his under lip, and, on thewhole, ptesented to my view the mouth on theimage of the Emperor Julian the Apostate.—Inone of his rapid courses past us, my sword couldonly shear off his white plume and a fragment ofhis buff coat. In a momt«t he was at the others'de of his square. Our officers eagetly sought ameeting with him. ‘ He has the proof of lead.’cried some of our men.—‘ Take the ccld steel, orapiece of silver.’ • No,’ cried Bnrley, ‘ It is hisrapid movement on that fine charger that bids de¬fiance to any thing like an aim in the tumult of thebloody fray. I could sooner shoot ten heathercocks on the wing, than one flying Clavers ’ Atthat moment, Burley, whose eye watched his an¬tagonist, pushed into the hollow square. Bui Bur¬ley was too impatient His blow was levelled athim before he came within its reach. His heavysword descended on the head of Clivers’ horse, andfelled him to the ground.—Burley’s men rushedf elUcfrell oirthe ralleiv Clav^rs, but his faithful dra-jjdons threw tlierdvelves upon thfm, and by therroverpowering force drove Burley back. ' Claverswas, in an instant, on a fresh steed. His bugle-man recalled the party who were driving back theBanking* party of Burley. He collected his* wholetroops rd make his last and desperate attack —Hecharged our infantry with such force, that they be¬gan to reel. It was only for a moment. The gal¬lant Hamilton snatched the white flag of the Co¬venant, and placed himself in the fore-front of thebattle". Otrr men shouted ‘God’ and our Country’,a ad" rallied under their flag- They fought like he-rcei. Clav'rts fought ftc less bravely. Ills' HowsWere aimed at < ur officers. His steel fell on thehelmet of Hack stone, whose sword was entangledin the body of a Artec dragoon who had justwounded him. He was borne by his men into therear. I dnccted my men on Clavers. ‘ Victoryor death,’ was their reply t'o me. Clavers receivedus. He struck a desperate blow at me, as he raisedhimself, with all his force, in the saddle. My steelcap resisted it. The second sttoke I received onmy Ferrara and his steel was shivered to pieces.We rushed headlong on each other. His pistolmissed fire—it had beef) so'aked ih blood. Minetook eflect. But the \vo‘nnd w'as not deadly. Ourhorses reared. We rolled on the ground. In vainwe sought to grasp each other. In the mc/e, menand horse tumbled.on ns. We were for a few mo¬ments buried under our men, whose eagerness tosave their icspective officers brought them in mul¬titudes down upon us. By the aid of my faithfulnan Gave., 1 had extricated myself from my fal¬len horse? and we were rushing on the bloody Cla-vers, when we were again literally buried under amass of men ; for Hamilton hadbythis time broughtup his whole line, and he had planted his standard1-3■where we and Clavers were rojlin^r era ihe hexth.. Our men gave three cheeis ai)d: drove in thctropps■ of .Clavers. Here I was borne alpng with the nfov-■ ing mass of men.: ar.d, almost sufFocaitsi. and faint■with the loss of blood, I knew nothing more till Ii opened m.y eyes on my. faithful hi<?> had' dragged'me from the very grasp of live enemy, and: had borne me into, t-he rear^ and was batlyog mytemples with - water. We ^pee<ii»y regamtd ourfriends-; and what a tpcctacle presented itycUl—rlt| seemed that I beheld, an. immense moving rwasa' heaped up together in the greatest confusion—Some shrieked, some groaned, some shouted, hor¬ses neighed and pranoed, swords rung on the steelI helmets. I placed atyund me a few ol my hardymen, and we rushed into the thickest of the enemyin search of Clavers; but it was in vain. At thatinstant bis rrnrppet sounded the lond notes of re-j treat ; and we saw on a knoll Clavers borne away: by his men. He threw himselt on a hmte, andiwithout sword, without helmet, he fled in the firstranks of the retreating host His troops galloped: up the hill in the utmost confusion. My little line: closed with that of Burley’s, and took a number of; prisoners. Our main body pursued the enemv twolmiles, and strewed the ground with men ana hor-ises. 1 could see'the bareheaded Clavers in front: of his men, kicking and struggling up the steepi sides of Caldej bilb He halted only a moment onj the top to look behind him, then plunged his row-tels into his horse, and darted forward ; nor did herecover from his panic till he found himself in the: city of Glasgow ”‘ And, my children,* the Laird would say, after! lie had told the adventures of this bloody day, ‘ Ii visited the field of battle neit day ; I shall neverI forget tire sight. Men and horses lay in their goryi beds. 1 turned away from the horrible spectacle.14I passed by the spot where God saved my life iathe single combat, and where the unhappy CaptainArrol fell I observed that, in the subsequent fray,the body had been trampled on by a horse, znd hisbowels were poured out. Thus, my children, thedefence of our lives, and the regaining of our li¬berty and religion, has subjected us to severe trials.And how great must be the love of liberty, whenit carries men forward, under the impulse of self-defence, to witness the most disgusting spectacles,and to encounter the most cruel hardships of war !’B.Battle of BothwpJl Bridge.“ Hfu ! victa jacet pietas.”* * * After the ranks of the patriotic Whigswere broken by overwhelming forces, and whileDalzell and Clavers swept the south and west ofScotland like the blast of the desert, breathing pes¬tilence and death—the individual wanderers betookthemselves to the caves and fastnesses of their rug¬ged country This wms their situation chiefly fromA. D. 16S0, to the Revolution. The Laird sp nthis days in seclusion; but still he fearlessly attend¬ed the weekly assemblies in the fields, for the wor¬ship of Almighty God' What had he to fear ?—■His estate had been confiscated. His wife and babesstript by the life-guards of the last remnant ofearthly comfort which they could take away; andhimself doomed, as an outlaw, to be executed bythe military assassins when taken- He becamereckless of the world.‘ I have lived,' said he in anguish, » to see aPtiace twice, of his own choice, take the oath of [ISthe covenants to support religion, and the funda¬mental laws of the land. I have lived to see that'Prince turn traitor to his country, and, with un-iblushing impiety, order these covenants to be burn-;ed by the hands of the executioner, 1 have seenihim subvert the liberty of my country, both civilmnd religious —l have seen him erect a bloody in¬quisition. The priests imposed on us by tyranny,instead of wooing us over by the loveliness of reli-;gion, have thrown off the bowels of mercy. Theyi occupy seats in the bloody Courctl. They stimu¬late the cruelties of Lauderdale, M'Kenzie andlYork. Their hands are dipt in blood to the wrists.I This Council will not permit us to live in peace,. Our property they contiscate. Our houses they: convert into barracks. They drag free men intochains. They bring no witnesses of our guilt.—I They invent new tortures to convert us. Tkey em-I ploy the thumb-screws and bootkins. If we areisilent they condemn us. If we confess our Chris¬tian creed, they doom us to the gibbet. Not onlyour sentence, but the manner of our execution, isfixed before our trial. Clavers is our judge; hisdragoons are our executioners; and these savagesdo still continue to employ even the sagacity ofblood hounds to hunt us down —My soul turnsaway from these loathsome spectacles.’At this moment his brother John entered, withlooks which betrayed unusual anxiety. ‘My bro¬ther,’ said he, ‘a trooper advances at full speed,and he is followed by a dark column. We havenot even time to fly.’—The mind of the Laird, likethose cf the rest of the wanderers, always bright,ened up at the approach of danger. ‘ Let us re¬connoitre,’ said he, • What do 1 see, but one troop¬er. And that motley cloud is but a rabble—not atroop. That Hooper is not of Ciavers’ band ; nordoes he belong to Douglas—nor to Ingles—nor to18Stfac^arc’j dragoons. Ha waves a small flap. Tcan discover the scarlet aad blue colour of the Cove,nsnters’ fla?.— Ha! welcome you, John Kowie of.Lochpoin—But what news ?—Lives our country ?Lives the good old cause ?1—‘ Glorious news,’ ex-claimed Howie, ‘ Scotland for ever! She is free.The tyrant James has abdicated The Stuarts arebanished'hy'an'lndignant nation. Orange triumphs.Our wounds are binding up.—Huzza ! Scotland,and King VVilBam, and the Covenant for ever!’The Laird made no reply. He laid his steel capon the-ground, and threw hidnself on his knees; heuttered a brief prayer, of which this was the close :‘ My bleeding country, and thy wailing Kirk, andmy brethren in the furnace, have come in remem¬brance before thee For ever lauded be thy name,*—‘ Hasten to the meeting at Lesmihagaw. Ourfriends behind me, you see, have already set out,*said Howie. And he set off with enthusiastic a:-dour to spread the news.‘ These news,’ said the Laird, after a long pause,while his eyes followed the courser over the plainsof Aven—1 These news are to me as life from thedead. I have a mind to meet my old friends atLesmahago-v. And then, when serious business isdispatched, we can take Both well field on out te-turn It will yield me at least a melancholy plea¬sure to visit the spot where we fought, I trust, ourlast battle against the enemies of our country, andof the good old cause.Serious matters of church and state having beendiscus-sed at the public meeting, the brothers foundthemselves, on the fourth day, on the battle groundof Both well.'‘ On that moor,’ said the Laird, after a long sil¬ence-—and. without being conscious of it, he had,by a kind of instinct, natural enough to a soldier,drawn his sword, and was pointing with it—‘ On17.■ithat itioer the enrmy first formed under MemmotubJI’here, on the right, Clavers led on the life-guards*breathing fury, and resolute to wipe off the disgraceItof the affair of Drumclog Dalzell formed his mert■ on that knoll. Lord Livingstone led the van of theofoemen. We had taken care to have Both well[Bridge stiongly secured by a bairicade, and ouflittle battery of cannon was planted on that spotbelow u=, in order to sweep the bridge. And wedid rake it. The foemen’s blood streamed ther^*Again and again the troops of the tyrant inarchedon, and our cannon annihilated their columns. SiirRobert Hamilton was our Commander-in Chief —■' The gallant General Hackstone stood on that spotwith his brave men. Along the rivtr, and abovethe bridge, Burley’s foot and Captain Nesbit’s dra¬goons were stationed. Bor one hour we kept theenemy in check ; they were defeated in every at¬tempt to cross the Clyde. Livingstone sent anotherStrong column to storm the bridge. I shall neverforget the effect of one fire from our battery, wheremy men stood. We saw the line of the foe idvancein-all the military glory of brave and beautiful meh;Le horses pranced—the armour gleamed. In onemoment nothing was seen but a shocking ina,s ofmortality. Human limbs, and the bodies andlimbs of horses were mingled in one huge heap, orblown to a great distance. Another column at¬tempted to cross above the bridge. Some threwthemselves into the current. One well-directed firefrom Burley’s troops threw them into disorder,and drove them back- Meantime, while we werethus warmly engaged, Hamilton was labouring tobring down the different divisions of our main bodyinto action ; but in vain he called on Colonel Cle!-and’s troop—in vain he ordered Hendetson’s to fallin—in vain he called or. Colonel Fleeming’s. Hack-stone flew from troop to troop—all was confusion ;18ia vain he besought, he intreated, he threatened, .iOur disputes and fiery misguided zeal, my brother, ,contracted a deep and deadly guilt that day. The aWhig turned his arm in fierce hate that day againsthis own vitals. Our Chaplains. Cargil, and King, ,and Kid, and Douglas, interposed again and again, tCargil mounted the pulpit; he preached concord ; |he called aloud for mutual forbearance. ‘ Behold Ithe banners of the enemy,’ cried he, ‘ hear ye notthe fire of the foe, and of our own brethren ? Ourbrothers and fathers are falling beneath their sword.Hasten to their aid. See the flag of the Covenant.See the motto in letters of gold—‘ Christ’s Crownand the Covenant.’ Hear the voice of your weep,ing country. Hear the wailings of the bleedingKirk. Banish discord. And let us, as a band ofbrothers, present a bold front to the foemen—.Fol¬low me, all ye who love your country and the Co.venant. I go to die in the fore-front of the battle-*All the ministet s and officers followed him—amidsta flourish of trumpets—but the great body remain,ed to listen to the harangues of the factious.—We sent again and again for ammunition. My r;enwere at the last round. Treachery, or a fatal er¬ror, had sent a barrel of raisins instead of powder.My heart sunk within me while I beheld the despairon the faces of my brave fellows, as I struck outthe head of the vessel. Hackstone called his offi¬cers to him. We threw ourselves around him.—‘ What must be done?’ said he, in an agony of de¬spair. ‘ Conquer or die?’ we said, as if with onevoice. 4 We have our swords yet. Lead back themen to their pLces, and let the ensign bear downthe blue and scarlet coloars. Our God and ourcountry be the word.’ Hackstone rushed forward,We ran to our respective corps—we cheered ourmen, but they were languid and dispirited. Theirammuniticn was nearly expended, and they seemed19.mxious to liuiband what remained. They fought'Jnly with ti eir carabines. The cannons could noT'tore be loaded. The enemy soon perceived this.■jVe saw a troop of horse approach the bridge. ItJivas that of the life-guards 1 recognized the plume)>fClavers. 1'hey approached in rapid march. Ailolid column of infantry followed. I sent a request• o Captain Nesbit to join his troop to mine. Heiivas in an instant with us—We charged the life-.guards. Our swords rung on their steel caps —Many of my brave lads fell on all sides of me. But; ne hewed down the foe. They began to red The whole column was kept stationary on theibridge, Clavers’ dreadful voice was heard—more!tike the yell of a savage, than the commandingvoice of a soldier. He pushed forward his men,land again we hewed them down. A third masswas pushed up. Our exhausted dragoons fled.—.Unsupported, I found myself by the brave Nesbit,and Paton, and Hackstone, We looked for a mo-unent’s space in silence on each other. We gallop,ed in front of our retreating men. We ralliedthem. We pointed to the General almost alone.We pointed to the white and to the scarlet coloursfloating near him. We cried, ‘ God and our Coun¬try.4 They faced about. ^We charged Claversonce more.—‘ Torfoot,’ cried Nesbit, ‘ I dare youto the fore front of the battle.4 We rushed up atfull gallop. Our men seeing this, followed also atlull speed —We broke down the enemy's line, bear-ing down those files which we encountered. Wecut our way through their ranks. But they hadnow lengthened their front. Superior numbersdrove us in They had gained entire possession ofthe bridge. Livingstone and Dalzell were actuallytaking us on the flank —A band had got betweenus and Burleys infantry. 4 My friends,’ said Hack-stone to his officers, 4 we arc last on the field. We20can do no more.—We must, retreat—Let us atltempt, at least, to bring aid to the deluded meubehind us. They have brought ruin on themselve iand on us. Not Monmouth, bud our own divisionhave scattered usd ■ dAd this moment one of the life-guards aimedblow at Huckstone. My sword rectived it—and a]stroke from Nesbit 1-rid the foeman‘s hand andisword in tile dust, fie fainted and tumbled fromthis saddle. We reined our horses, and gaUoppedlito our main body. But what a ‘sciiYQ presented}!kself here! These misguided men had their feyeirjnow fully opened on their fatal errors* The enemy)trere bringing up their Whole force against them.!I was not long a near spectator of it; for a balllgrazed my courser. He plunged and reared—then';shot off like an arrow. Several of our officers dreWito the same place. On a knollHve faced about—*-the bahle taged below us. We beheld our com-imander doing every thing that a brave sokliencould do with factious men against an overpower- -ing foe. Burley and his troops were in close con- ■flict with Clavers* dragoons. We saw him dis¬mount three troopers with his own hand. He couldnot tarn the tide of battle, but he was covering theretreat of these misguided men. Before we couldrejoin him, a party threw themselves in our way.Kennoway, one of Ctavers' officers led them on,‘ Would to God that this was Grahame himself,*some of my comrades ejaculated aloud * He fallsto my share:* said I, * whoever the officer be.*4—I advanced—he met me. 1 parried several tbruhraHe received a cut on the left arm ; and the sword,by the same stroke, shore off one of his horsescars; it plunged and reared. We closed again.I received a stroke on the left shoulder. My blowfell bn his sword arm. He reined his horse around,retreated a few paces, then returned at full gallop.21(vTy courser reared inrtinctively as his approached,i received his stroke on the back of my ferrara ;load by a ba<ck stroke, I gave him a deep cut onkhe cheek. And before he could recover a position>f defence, my sword fell with a terrible blow onthis steel cap. Stunned by the blow, he bent h!m-Iself forward—and, grasping the mane, he tumbledifipm &is saddle, and his steed galloped over theh*ld i did not repeat the blow’. His left handpresented his sword ; his right arm was disabled ;Bus li!e was given to him. My companions havingkhsposed of their antagonists, (and some of themiliad two a piece,) we paused to soe the fate of ther'lsKtle. DalaeUi asuk Livingstone were riding overi the field; like furies.'cutting down all in their way,iMonmouth was galloping from rank to rank, andtrailing on his men to give quarter. Cl avers, <to/wipe off the disgrace of Drumctog, was commit¬ting fearful havoc. ‘ Can we not find Clavers,’! said Halhead.—‘ No,’ said Captain Patoc, ‘ the gal-liant Colonel takes care to have a ■solid euard of hisi rogues about him. 1 have sought him over theI field ; but I found him, as 1 mow perceive him,1 with a mass of his guards about him/ At this ir.-stant we saw our General, at some distance, dis-ler.tangling himself from the men who had tumb¬led over him in the mt/e. His face, and hands, andclothes, were covered with gore. He had beendismounted, and was fighting on foot; Wa rush¬ed to,the' spot, and cheer ad him. Our party drovoback the scattered bands of Dalzell. ‘My friends,’said Sir Robert, as we mounted him on a strayhorse, ‘the day is lost! But—yon, Paton; you,Brownlee of forfoot, and you Halhead; let notthat flag fall into the hands of these incarnate de¬vils. We have lost the battle, but, by the graceof God, neither Dalzell nor Clavers shall say thathe took our colours. My ensign has done his duty.22He is down. This sword has saved it twice,leave it to your care. You see ifs perilous situation.’ He pointed with his sword to the spot We collected some of our scattered troops, and flewto the place. The standard bearer was down, bu;he was still fearlessly grasping the Hag staff, while1he was borne upright by the mass of men who had:thrown themselves in fierce contest around it. Itsiwell known blue and scarlet colours, and its motto*‘ Chr ist’s crown and cotenant,’in brilliant goldlletters, inspired us with a sacred enthusiasm We gave a loud cheer to the wounded ensign, andrushed into the combat. The redemption of thatflag cost the foe many a gallant man They fellbeneath our broad swords; and, with horrible ex¬ecrations dying on theic lips, they gave up their isouls to their Judge.Here 1 met in front that ferocious dragoon ofClavers, named Tam Halliday, who had morethan once, in his raids, plundered my halls; andhad snatched the bread from my weeping-babes.He had just seized the white staff of the flag. Buthis tremendous oath of exultation, (we of the co¬venant never swear )—his oath had scarcely parsedits polluted threshold, when this Andro Ferrara'fell on the guard of his steel, and shivered it topieces. ‘ Recreant loon?' said 1, ‘thou shalt thisday remember thy evil deeds.’ Another blow onhis Ir lmet laid him at his huge length, and madehim bite the dust. In the mele that followed, I lostsight of him. We fought like lions—-but with thehearts of Christians. W hile my gallant companionsstemmed the tide of battle, the standard, rent totatters, fell across my breast. I tore it from thestaff, and wrapt it round my body. We cut ourway through the enemy, and caried our Generaloff the fieldHaving gained a small knoll, we beheld once23''more the dreadful spectacle below. Thick volume!lof smoke aru’ dust rolled in a lazy cloud over the(dark bands mingled in deadly fray. It was nonlonger a battle, but a massacre. In the strugglelief my feelings I turned my eyes on the Generall.and Patou. I saw, in tfe face of the latter, anu indisci ibable conflict of passions. His long andilshaggy eye-brows were drawn over his eyes. His;ihard grasped his sword. ‘ I cannot yet leave theifield,’ said the undaunted Paton—‘With the Gene-ral’s permission, I shall try to save some of ourt wretched men beset by those hell-hounds. Whotwill go?,—At Kilsyth I saw seivice. When de-I serted by my troop, I cut tny way through Mon*: trose’s men, and reached the spot where ColonelsI Halket and Strachan were- We left the field to-| gether. Fifteen dragoons attacked us. We cuti down thirteen, and two fled. Thirteen next as*i sailed us. We left ten on the field, and three fled.! Eleven Highlanders next met us. We paused, andi cheered eack other; ‘Now, Jonny,’ cried Halketto me, ‘put forth your metal, else we are gone,’! Nine others we sent after their comrades, and twofled Now, who will join this raid!’* ‘I willbe your leader,’ said Sir Robert, as we fell intothe ranks.We marched on the enemy's flank. ‘ Yonder isClavers,’ said Paton, while he directed his courseron him. The bloody man was, at that moment,neatly alone, hacking to pieces some poor fellowsalready on their knees disarmed, and imploringhirn by the common feelings of humanity to spare• Thi« chivalrcm* defence is recorded, I find in the life ofCaptain i'aton, in the ‘ Scots Worthies,’ Edin. edit cf A. D.J 812, Phis celebrated Officer was trained up to warfare inthe army of Charles Gustavos, King of Sweden This is asf ecipien of those heroic Whigs who brought about the R«-voiution of A, D, 1868.24their lives. He had just finished i.is usual oathagainst their ‘ feelings of humanity,’ when Patonpresented himself. He instantly let go his prey,and slunk back into the midst of his troopers. Hav.ing formed them, he advanced—We formed, andmade a furious ons"t. At our first charge his troopreded. Clayprs was dismounted.—But at that mo¬ment Dalzell assaded us on the flank and rear.—Our men fell around us like grass before the mow¬er. The buglemen sounded a retreat. Once morein the mtle I fell in with the General and Paton.We were covered with wounds. We directed our■flight in the rear of our broken troops. By the di¬rection of the General I had unfurled the standard.It was borne off the field flying at the sword’spoint. But that honour cost me much. I was as¬sailed by three fierce dragoons; five followed closein the rear. I called to Paton,—in a moment hewas by my side. I threw the standard to the Ge¬net al, and we rushed on the foe. They fell beneathour swords; but my faithful steed, which had ca¬lled me through all my dangers, was mortallywounded He fell. I was thrown in among thefallen enemy I fainted. I opened my eyes onmisery f found myself in the presence of Mon¬mouth—a prisoner—with other wretched creatures,awaiting, in awful suspence, their ultimate des-W. C. B.FINIS.