THEHarmonyOF THEDivine Attributes cUiplB.yedIN THERedemption and Salvation of Sin¬ners by JESUS CHRIST.BEINGA S E R M O N■Preached at D unfit inline, upon the 29 th ofSeptember 1724, immediately alter theCelebration of the LOilD’s SUPPER,from Pfalm btxxv. 10.By the Reverend Mr RALPHE R S K I N E, late Minifler ofthe Gofpel there.FALKIRK:Vinted by Daniel Reid, and fold at the Stirling-fbirePfindng-houfe, in High-dreec, neat the South-G.uaof the Church, Mr. Gardener’s Land, where Variet/,of excellent Books are fold cheap j PliesAlfj >Vi iting Paper j ■’ : "I AKU*""’'The Harmony, &c.From PSALM Ixxxv. 10.Mercy and Truth are met together. High-teoufnefs and Peace have kifled eachother.Friends; at a folemn marriagefupper, there is ufually a friendiycompany thafmeet together; andwhen at fuch an occafion, all thingsare managed with fobriety and de¬cency, itls very heartfomeand plea*'ant to the parties concerned, to fe«the members of the meeting, withmutual kindnefs to one another, harmonioufly gracingthe folemnity: Even fo at the marriage fupper of theLamb. I mean, the facrament of the Lord’s fupper,•whieb we have been celebrating, there is a hearufome company, not of men and women, for that wouldmake but a poor earthly meeting; nor yet of faints andangels, for that would make but at bell a mean creature¬meeting ; but it is a glorious heartfome company of di¬vine Attributes and perfection in the fweeteft concordmeeting together, and embracing one another. Thiswonderful conjunction, of divine excellencies is thefriendly company that meets together, tc put honourupon this nuptial folemnity; and to fee them thus har-inonioudy embracing one another in the falvation offinners is the fweeteft light that the Bride, the Lamb’swife (hall ever die at the marriage fupper, whether itbe at the lower or upper table. There is a great meet¬ing in this home, an infinitely greater* greater in thistes.t; a meeting of divine excellencies, to grace the lo-kmnity ot the marriage fupper of the Lamb, ‘ Mercy‘ and truth are met together, righteoufnefs and peace* have kifled each other.’ When Cod made heavenand earth out of nothing, he made them by a wordviithout any other ceremony; but when he made marsthere was fome particular lolemnity, a grand council,us it w'erc of the glorious Trinity called; Come ‘ let us« sialse'ntaa a-f.cr our Put ::ow, man havinguii-made himfdf, if God had a mmd, WThit own clorious grace to make him up again by a newcreation in Chrift Jefua, there mull be a more gloriousnot only a council ol the adorable l n-folemnity yet •, not onlynny, but a grand meeting of all the attribute* of God,conlult their own glory that was married, and recon¬cile their own intereft, and feemingly contradiftoryclaims * for the fin of- man had brought real confufionamong all the creatures of God, on earth; yea, and afeeming war among all the attributes of God in hea¬ven, concerning the execution of the fentence of the lawupon mankind, the tranfgreffor thereof. Some of thefcattributes, fuch as Mtrcy, faying, if the fentence ofdeath be executed upon them how (hall I be glorified ?Others, fuch as Tr»th faying, if the fentence be not exe¬cuted, how {hall I be glorified. It is not to be expectedthat fuch oppofites can meet together! Or if they meet,that they will agree together cordially, Yea, tho' it bebeyond the expe&ation of men and angels, yet behold itis here celebrated with a fong, * Mercy and truth are* met together, righteoufnefs and peace have killed‘ each other/7his Pfalm confifis of prayer, of faith, and an an-fwer of peace. Fir ft the church prayer, from the be¬ginning to the 8 verfe, where they are praying for theremoval of many tokens of God’s difpleafure they wereunder, notwithftanding of their return out of the Baby-lonijb czpti'iiiy. i. The anfwer of peace that is madeto their prayer, from verfe 8 and downward, we haveheard the Pfalmift liftening and waiting for the anfwer;* I will hear what God the Lord will fpeak. The an-‘ fwer itfelf in general is peace, he will fpeak peace tof his people,’ &c. If he give not outward peace, yet hewill fu^geft inward peace, fpeaking that to their heartsby his Spirit, which he bad fpoken to their ears by hisword, whatever other fort of peace and profperity theyenjoyed, when at length the children of the captivity,after a great deal of toil, had gained a fettlement in theirown land, yet peace with God, and fpiritual profperityunder the Mejfiah's kingdom, was the great thing hei*PKjmifed and piophcfied of; and that is a peace thaA 2£f»sn? and by his knowledge man my ngiucuua icivau.r:,7v dwell in air land. Now whatever other factionhe here imported, Chrift is the great falvation intended •when he is n ar in v'e v, then the believer cries out withc!d Sim-on, New mine eyes have fern thy falvation : Andwhatever any other glory and honour be here imported,rhrin is the chief glory here intended: when he goesnvay from a land then Ichabod, the glory is departed,biit whetr he ab;des, g’ory dwells ; for he is called, Afight to lighter* the Gentiles, and the glory cf his peopleifrael; but. row. if we would knew what fort of glory ifi? that appears when-Chrifl is revealed, why, its eventhe glorious harmony of all the divine Attributes illuf-trioully fhinmg in him who is beth our falvation and our‘ Mercy and tputh are meeting together, and* righteoufnefs and peace have killed each other.’ Nowtho’jhefe words may be applied to the happy meetingcf grace in men, upon the revelation of Chrift in thef ml, which f may afterwards notice in the fequel, andin which fenfe fome interpreters underftand it, yet It.rke it mainly to import the happy meeting of perfec¬tions in God to be glorified in the finner’s f.dvation by1-fus Chrift, W’hich is a glofs that no interpreter l have1 ad occafion to confult does negleifl or omit: and if any4 f them ftiould mil's it, l think they would mifs the veryground-work and foundation of all other happy meet¬ings ‘ Me cy and truth have met together, righteouf-* refs and peace have killed each other.’In the words you may notice, i/2. The members ofthe meeting, 'idly. The manner of the meeting.The haVcsfijy of the meeting, dthly, Thefirm gene ft cf it.Notice,' I fay, FirfI the members of the meeting,Mercy, truth, righttonfnefs am! peace, l hope I neednot caution fome in this aflimbly that they beware ofies? pe-:fe6l!ons God under thfirow, man havingui**; tv*.v* wc;r.ame of mercy, truth, rightectfnefs rnJ peace, as If tlifywere really diillrfl and different things in Goif; or, anthey were.really different parties making a formal ton-fultaticn, in order to their agreement; for God is one,and Cannot be divided, he is one infinite, eternal andunchangeable Being ; there are not diflir ft and differentthings in this nature and efftree; however his perfec¬tions be thus reprefented to our weak finite capacitieswhich cannot underftand the perfections of God, butfeveral parts, as it were By mercy, then here we are tor. n lerfland God hirnfelf, as he is n merciful and gracious.Cod.' By truth we are to underfland t.!ie fame God as;:e is a true and merciful God- By righteoufnejs we?.i ly underfland h»s juliice, ci God himfelf, as he is aiun and righteous God : and by peace the fame God, ashe is the God of peace, and a God reconciling the worldto himfelf. So that the whole comes to this, it is thegreat and eternal Cod himftlf, confulting with himfeJf.m a manner becoming his ‘ ‘ ....infinite and adorable pefec-tions, how to gloruy himfelf in aii his glorious attributesin toe way of laving finners, ia and by Jefas Chrift.j* warmer of the meeting; thefe excellenciesand perteciions of God meet together, as it were inpairs, ‘ mercy and truth, righteoufnefs and peace ’going hand in hand into the council-chamber, to con-— i * 4 u CJ y kj evil*honour6 mattCrS that concc'rnttl their higheft glory and3. I he harmony of the meeting, having met toge¬ther, t.,ey kift .and embrace ench other; mercy andpeace, as it were, exprefs their complacency in trmhand nghteoufnefs: and truth and righicoufnefs exprefst -eir complacency m mercy and peace, and delight in' another s honour, tor not one Attribute of the di-'me Majefty can, or will be glorified to the difhonourm My otner Attribute, but mutually embrace each otheim tmnr ever aOmg arms, fupporting . _• honour of eachexcdlency wuh compleated inetiimable endear-4- The flrangenefs and remarkablcnefs cf this meet-g, tor me agreement cf thefe parties met together it*remarkable in regard cf their jarring amiinfr.e mere9'nr^f and by bis fcnowfeage inau my ngntcous leivrtut/a—  1 f•ppofite claims; for that mercy and peace fhall meettogether, and agree in favour to fave us, and that truthand rightcoufnefs fhall meet together, and agree mjuftice to deftroy us, were not fo ftrange and remark¬able ; and if they had kept fuch feparate meeting, andremained at odds without meeting together, man hadteen forever feparate from God, and fome darling At¬tributes had never been glorified in man’s falvation ;our fin and rebellion having in a manner fet the Attri¬butes of God at fuch variance, as nothing elfe but in¬finite wifdom coul^ provide a fufficient anfwer to alltheir contraduftory claims and inteieft, which behovedto be done ere the propofal anent the falvation of anyfinner cbald be gone into. Why, fays mercy, it is myintereft that the (inner live and not perifh, that I maybe magnified, fince l have faid, * That l will have* mercy on whom I will have mercy;’ Well* but faystruth, it is my intereft as a God qf truth, that the fin¬ner die, fince I have faid, ‘ That the foul that finneth* (hall die:’ yea, and fays rightecufnefs, I muft jomwith truth and claim ihe finner’s damnation, for thaadvancement of my intereft and honour, for I have faidand will not gainfay it, ‘ That I will by no means clearthe cuilry.’ Oh ! hut feys peace, l will join in with“mercy, and claim the fmner’s falvation, for advancingmy intereft, ‘ For who created the fruit of the lips,'« peace, peace to him that is afar off, and to him that ise ne:ir ?’ So there appears to be a war in heaven amonginfinitely ad.-.able Attribntes and perfraions, whilemercy and peace are faying, we muft haY* fhaving undeferved pity on the fmner, and yet. trmhand righteoufnefs are faying we muft have glory in exe¬cuting the deferved vengeance. And now, O menand angels! will you tell, can thefetogether? Can thefe jarring-like .Attributes of the rvine majefty cmU cc each other m the falvation of thefinner, fo as to get all their demands anfwered andtheir different interefts advanced. What/ay,.y^UrrCnh^'dren of men? Can you devife how thefe differencessan be cornpofed for your own fafety ? No, no, humanSfdom fay?, it is rit in me. What fay ye angelsthat dxccl in ftrength and wifdomi can you contrivethe reconciliation of thefe irreconcilable demands ? No,no; angelical wifdom fays it is not in me. Well, Cneecreature wifdom fails, may we addrela the infinite wif¬dom of the Deity, and enquire at a higher hand; Be¬hold, now we have taken upon us to fpeak unto theLord, who are but dull and albes. What fayeft thou,O infinitely wife Jehovah ? can thefe oppofite claimsbe reconciled to the fatisfa&ion of all parties, and thefalvation of the finner? Yes, it is done, it is done,-it isdone in a crucified Chrift, whom we have been remem¬bering at this folemnity; and therefore we may fingthis marvellous Song upon the back of it faying, ‘ Glory,* glory, glory to God, that mercy and truth are met* together.’Obferv-'.tion, That in the falvatich cf finners by JefusChrift the glorious Attributes and perfections of Goddo harmonioufiy confpirc and embrace one another; orthus, that in Chrift crucified for the redemption of fin¬ners, all the glorious Attributes of the divine majeftydo harmonioufly confpire, and embrace one another.When God is well pleafed, no perfection of God isdifpleafed; but God is well plcafed in Chrift, and there¬fore every perfection of his nature is well pleafed, noneof them difpleafed or diffatisfied, but all pleafed andSatisfied to the full; fee Hofea ii. ip, 20. This is de¬clared by an audible voice from heaven, faying, ‘ This‘ is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleafed.’Mat. iii. laji. And why even for the rcafon you have,Ifa. xlii. 21. We fee ho hath brought in a righteouf-nefs anfwering the demand of all that ftood hi the vayof our falvation: Did divine truth and righteoufnefefcy, that the threatning of the law muft be executed,fo fure as God is true, as well as its precept, obtempe-rate and obeyed; Well can rightcoufnefs fatisfying boththefe demands and do the bufinefs, Yea, fays jujlice itfeltin concert with mercy t if there be but one righteous manin Sodom ot this earth; that can fatisfy my broken andviolated Lw, in its command of pcrfeA obedience, andin its demand of complete fati&fadtion : then I will fpareall the elect world, for the fake of that one righteousand by his knowledge (hall my righteous fervaiitJufllfy ma'r.y. Well fays mercy, here is one whofe riarfVtis Wonderful, and whom they call Immanuel, God-manwho hath brought in an everlafting righteoufnefs, botha£live and paffive, fuiting the precept and penaltv of th;law: Why then might one Attribute fay to another, w<are pleafed, and with one confent let it be procniicifc,on earth that the Lord is pleaftd for his rightecmfnetfake; for he hath magnified the law, and made it ho¬nourable. And now the great affair of man s falvatioris fo well conceited and contrived, that God may hav;mercy upon them, and be at peacv with poor finnerswithout any wrong to lus truth and righteonfnefs. TnAttributes of God have met and agreed and fcaled the!agreement with a kifs of infinite kindnefs, harmony, an:fausfa&Ion. ‘ Mercy and truth are met together, righi4 teoufnefs and peace have kiffed each other.Now f may fpeak to this purpofe “a little more fullythe method I pfopofe ir,1. To touch a little at this queition, who are thmembers of the meeting, of what are thefe Attributeof God, which do thus harmonioufly confpire togetuerpropofing their various claims.2. 1 would enquire when and where it is that themeet together, and embrace one another.3. How and after what manner it is that they me'etogether, and kifs one another.4. Why, or for what reafon it is that they have metogether thus harmduiouf!y.5. Make fome applicaiidn.x. I would fpeak a little to the members of this meeting of the Attributes of Cod that thus harmonout!ccnfpire together. We need net a fit at whefe inftancthis meeting is called, it is at the in fiance and oy thorder of Jehovah; Father, him, and Holy Ghoii, ohGod; his fevereign will and pleafure, refolving, inmanner like himfeif, to'coiicert with himfelf; neitheneed we alk, what is the OCtafion of the meeting, vv.man had finned, and all mankind by Uieir nr, wkiltil* J —-   %’volvtd under the curfe of the law, and wrath or vjrcw%,nd yet God hath refolved and declared, tor ti.e glcr'iff his grace and .mc.try, to ftve a 'vcrld vf finr.-" '- el-vfaccording to the foreknowledge of God: And whilefract) mercy and peace nrz upon this loving plot of fa-ving finncrs, it wts fit OcMl jufticc truth and righteoufncfsfltould be called into the fame council, to appear for theirintereft: fince the propofal of fuch a falvation of tinnersfeCms to encroach upon their honour, which required thevengeance due to be executed upon the finner. Well,the meeting being called, compear thefe glorious per-fetaions. ‘ Mercy, truth, righteoufnefs and peace,’mercy and peace full of pity, truth and juflice full orfury, which* made a feeming controverfy in .heaven.Y7e may fuppofe Adam arraigned in the name of allmankind, and {landing as a trembling pannel; yea, hisvery tongue chained up in ftlence, by reafon of fin a>ndguilt, fentenced to eternal deiath, and ready to have thefentence executed upon him and all his pofterity. Wemay fuppofe next, the feveral members of the meetingopening theaffembly, by putting in their fevera'^claims;and we may notice them in the oider of the text.i. Mercy, being full of pity towards the miferable,comes walking along in the cool of the evening, andmeekly craving leave to fpeak; notwithftanding thattruth and ju/lice be prefent at the meeting. It is true,fays mercy, that man hath finned, and juft that manfiiould die; but art not thou, O Lord full of pity andcompaftion, * The Lord, the Lord, God pardoning ini-‘ quity, tranfgreffipn and fin.’ What tho’ man hathfinned, and is all over befmeared with mire and blood,yet look upon him in lo^e, and deftroy not the works ofthy own hands; he was made a child after thy own image,tho' now his garment be rent and all bloody; yet fee, is notthis thy Son’s coat ? Jafeph is gone, and wilt thou loteBenjamin alfo ? Angels are gone, and (hall men be loftalfo? Miriads of Angels are fallen, and that irrecoverably,-and (hall man perifh alfo? O fpare him ? is he not a littleone ? and his foul (hall live. I fee, might meroy fay, thattruth righteoufnefs or juftice, which have the poor finnerin their chains, are here prefent ready to fpeak in this af-fembly for their intereft and honour againft criminals:But let it be marked in the orimites of this court, tha*:Bf I© )mercy craTcs to be rrragnified, and muft have honour aSthis meeting, well, mercy having fpoken her mind,t. Truth comes in naked and open mouthed, in fa¬vours of God’s faithfulnefs, and in oppofition to man’sperfidy and treachery, faying, I have heard what meroycraves in favour of this criminal ; But O thou faithfuland true God! The word is gone out of thy mouth, andthere is no revoking of it: * Thou haft faid to in* the day thou eattft thou (halt futelv die,’ and now behath eaten, he hath finned, and (hall he not die? What,is there yea and nay with God, who hath faithfulnefslor the girdle of his loins, muft not God’s word of threat¬ening take effe£t; Yea heaven and earthfoall pafs away,hut a jot of his -word /hall not fall to the ground: Andtherefore, whatever be the demand of mercy, let it bemarked in the records of this meeting, that truth cravesto be magnified, and that its honour be not infringed inthe leaft by any claim or plea that mercy hath broughtin. Well, truth hath fpcken, gives way to her filterjuftice; and thereupon,3. Right-oufnefs or juftice comes in and plead* againftthe rebel (inner: Rightcoufnefs, I fay, bringeth her fcal6in her hand, in which (he hath tried him, and found himJighter than vanity itfelf; he it weighed in her balanceand found wanting: yea, not only wanting and deftituteof all that perfeftion and obedience that the law requir¬ed, but full of all that rebellion which the law difcharged,having finned, and come fhort of the glory of God: andfo is righteoufly fubje&ed to the fan&ion of the law and'fentence of eternal death; And therefore, fays righte-oufnefs, O thou infinitely righteous and juft judge, mer¬cy caa have no hearing in this court, to the prejudice cfthy honour and glory, as a juft and righteous God, astruth has pronoimcfd the fentence of wrath and ven¬geance againft fin: fo, if thou be a juft God, thy infinitevengeance due to fuch an infinite evil muft be executeto the full: This pannel is my prifoner, and loofed hefhall not be till I get foil fatisfadion, and my fword bedrunk with blood, for vengeance is mine, and 1 will re¬fay it faith the Lord; and I will by no means clear theguilty. And therefor* let it be regiftrate in this court.( * * /that righteoufntfc craves to be magnified, and jufticetofee glorified in a full fatisfaftion ; and this is claimed anddemanded in the name of the righteous and juft judgeof the univerfe; and fhall not the judge of all the earthdo right! Here is the language of juftice. What then?O fhall the demand of mercy be utterly run down feythefe powerful oppofing plea* of truth and riglteaufnefsris there no friend in this court to tarke mercy's gait j yea,there is, therefore,4. Peace immediately fleps in with ah olive branchin her hand, faying fury is not in me, and may I fpealta word in behalf of forlorn mankind ? May I offer ameek anfwer to the claim of truth and righteeufnefiywhich they have advanced in oppefition to the demandof mercyy for a [oft anfwer turneth away wrath. Well,peace being allowed a hearing, propofes a healing over¬ture, faying, O thou God of peace! may not an atone*ment be made, a reconciliation thought of betwixt thyMajefty and thy creature, may not one be found out to ftandin the gap and bear off this wrath, to become furety forthis great debtor, to acquit and liberate this poor mifer-able prifoner and criminal ? may not one be found ouCthat will make i#p the breach, by vindicating the honourof truth, and fatisfying the demand of jujhct; and fomaking way for the claim ©f mercy, aad then all differ¬ence may be peaceably compofed, lb a* we may harmo-nioufly agree, and kifs one another : O! may not thsna peace-maker be found out in whom we may find-allcur demands fatisfied at once, without prejudicing on©another-, why, if fuch an one can be found, furely bisname fhall be called Wonderful, cognfellor, the Prince ofpeace. Well, the overture and propofal of peace beingrecorded among the reft of the archives of the gloriouscourt, and if behig fuch a peaceable overture, no mem¬ber of the meeting could difapprove it; But the greatqueftion then is, how it could be effe&uate, for if oneman fin againft another, a man might determine it; butif a man fin againft Jehovah, who fhall ini rest for him?for when infinite majefty is offended, who among finit©creatures is able to fatisfy it; or, < What can counter-* vail the king’s lots? wherewith then HtaU he ceme( 12 )* before the Lord, or bow bimfelf before the Mod High‘ God ? Will thoufands of rams do it, or ten thoufand* of rivers of oil, or the fruit of the body, for the fin of‘ the foulNo, no, facrifice and offering thou wouldeltnot, for it is impoffible that the blood of bulls or of ■goats fhould take away fins. Heb. x. 5. What then,will angels become furety for the fin ot man ? No, no,rho* they had a will they have not power, they have butoil enough in their vefl'els for their own lamps, ^hatthen (hail be dene ? Why might peace fay, let us not .bland in * demure, we have infinite wifdom here pre-fent with us at this meeting, let us hear her judgmentanent this peaceable propafal, if it be pcffible that fucha perfon can be found, in whom we pay harmoniouilycenter at laft. Then wifdom fits down upori the privycouncil bench, and being full of eyes, does gravely de¬termine this doubtful c;»fe with a happy iffue. It isexpedient, fays wifdoni, That one die for the people,that the whole nation of mankind perilh not, but hemuft be fuch *a righteous one that can jufttfy many;yea, he that will undertake this, muft be finite, thathe may die, and infinite that he may conquer death,and fatisfy infinite juftice ; but lo, there is none fuch tobe found among all the creatures that ever God made,neither can fuch an one be found unlefs the Son ofCod himfelf, the fecond perfon of the glorious Trinityfhall be pleafed, by an unfpeakable rnytlery, to becomefiefh, made of a woman, ‘ Made under tfie law, to re-« deem them‘that are under the law, that they may re-* ceivc the adoption of Tons,’ Gal. iv. 4. That fo, w henbe that hath no fin {hall become fin for manj man whobath no righteoufnefs, * may become the righteouinefs« of God through him,’ 2 Tor. v. L-ft and thus mercymay be magnified, truth juftified, righteoufnefs oleared,juftrse fatisfied, p*ace concluded : and all contented.Wifdgm having determined how this propofal of peacemight be cffeftuate, all parties hearkened, as it werawith pleafure and willingly fubferibed to the happyoverture, and then heaven and earth confpired togetherjii-fclemu thanfgiving, faying, ‘ Glory be to God in1 the higheft; on earth ptace, and good will towards).* men.’ Thus the jarring Attributes of God are newreconciled, and behold, the members of the meetingthat feemed to be at the greateft variance, are embrac¬ing one another in their arms, Mercy and truth are mettogether; Ac.The fecond thing was, when and where did thefeblefled parties meet together ? when we fpeak of a re¬markable meeting, it is ufual to enquire into the timeand place of the meeting ; Now the place where and thetime when, as to this wonderful meeting, are two quef-tionr, which I put together, for they may be both an-fwerei at once, becaufe of their near relation.t. Then in general, the meeting place, or place ofthe meeting it Chrift, and time of the meeting was whenChrift pi* himfelf in our iccm, or fabftitute himfelfin the place of the finner, to anfwer the demand ofall the members of the meeting that had any obj-dlionagainft our falvatiorj, or any thing to lay to our charge;where then, and when did they meet together and kifseach other? Why, it was even in Chrift, when he tookour law-room to pay our debt, and purchafe cur Ijbertyin fuch a manner, as mercy and peace might have theirintereft advanced, without injury to truth and righ-reoufnefs, that mercy might vent to the credit of truth,and peace might be proclaimed to the honour of righ-tesufnefs, and the firmer fated to the fatisfa&ion ofjuftice. They meet together, and embrace each other! in him, as the ftirety, ‘ The fusety of the better Tefta-* ment,’ Heb. vii. 22. We were debtors to the manda¬tory and minatory part of the law, arraigned at the in-fiance of divine juftice to pay the debt. . Chrift fubfii-tutes himfelf in our room, comes under the law to paythe whole debt: it is true, the debt was perfonal, andjuftice had a demand upon the perfon that finned, byvirtue of the covenant of works, but that covenant ne¬ver excluded a furety, though it provided none. The1 <<aw promifed life upon our perfonal obedience, but i*• cafe we fail it revealed no furety to make out an obedi¬ence in our room : there behoved indeed to be a fecretreferve in the covenant of works, whereby the perfeiftobedience of another was not excluded ; For if the co-i *4 lvtnant of wocJiS had abfoluttly excluded a furety in ou?room, then the covenant of grace had been excluded,and our falvation had been impoffible, after our fall;but tho’ the covenant of works did not exclude a furety,yet that covenant did neither provide nor reveal a furety.This is done in the covenant of grace, which is Chrift,as furety, fulfilling for us the covenant of works, in allthe articles of it. Now, is truth and faithfulnefs at anylofs her*? No, the truth of the promife and threateningboth, of the law of works is lulfiiled. On the one hand,the promife of eternal life made to pcrfe& obedience,which tho’ we forfeited in our own perfon, yet we re¬cover in the perfon of Chrift : the promife of life, uponthe ground and condition of periett obedience, beingfulfilled to us in him, who hath yeildrd that perfe£tobedience in our room. On the other hand, divinetruth and falthfulnefs, in the.threatening of the law,which was death, is glorified in that it is fulfilled uponthe furety; while we, who came under the feritencc of*death in the firft Jdam, undergo that death in the f«»cond; Again, is rightcoufncfs and juftice at any lefsby this furety in our room? No, no, whither we lookupon it as vindictive or retributive juftice; vindictivejuftice is difplayed in its catrr.oft feveiity upon Chnft :« Awake, O fword againft my Shepherd, and the man« that is my Fellow.’ And fo the fword is drunk in hisBlood, to infinite fatisfaCtion. Retributive juftice i3elorioufly difplayed alio in the fmners being rewarded,' — .l;-  1 t. tc true, mightupon theannci   - -•••• perfon, bur. as I can fuftainiio injury to my honour by fuch a furety as this, wnornthey call Immanuel, God-man, fo I find my honour antimtereft, inftead of being impaired, is advanced oy thisexchange of perfons, for tho’ 1 fhould damn the hnncfto all eternity, I’ll never get fuch full and complete la-tisfaCticn upon any finite creature, as I wr.l get by oneftroke of my avenging fword upon that petfon o, im-fmte di*nity : and < fo it pleaftd the Lqrd to brmfe him.:Why then* ‘ they meet together and embrace cm amc 0thCr jahim,’ as furety, and if truth anu ngL.ecv.ne^'>e both pleafed to the full, the parties cannot but alligree, and embrace each other. Again they meet to¬gether and embrace one another in him, as a facrifiee,A facrifice and offering of a fweet fmellihg favour,: unto God, Eph. v. 2. ■wAy, He offered, up himfclf by: the eternal Spirit,’ O great! Even by his eternal God-lead; a valuable facrifiee indeed! I hey meet togetherin him as a propitiation, Rom iii. 25. Whom God h ithret forth to bt a propitiation thro' faith in his blood t«foclarc his righteoufnefs, &c. Behold him righteous in[hewing mercy, here is the atonement, the propitiation,that very word which the Septuagint calls the mercy-feat in the Old-Teftament: and it is the word that thepoor publican made ufe of when he was feeking mercy,faying, God be meciful unto me a firmer. He had mindof this, this mercy-feat and propitiation, it is not fimplsmercy that he fought, but mercy through a propitiation :he lecksd to the blood of atonement to the facrificedLamb of God, faying, Give me mercy for this, by thatfolemn propitiation, be thou propitious to me. Here itis that mercy and juftice meet together: they meet to¬gether in him as'a ranfom, Job xtcxiii. 24. deliver hiefoul from going down to the pit, I have found a ranfom.THEj HARMONYOF THEPIVTNE ATTRIBUTES;From PSALM Ixxxv. 10.Mercy and Truth afe met together, High-teoufnefs and Peace haveMIfed each other.TV a they have met together, and kiffed one an-o her in a crucified Chrift, whofe death was the pay-nent of our debt, the punilhment of our fin, the priesf our redemption, and a pmchafe of our Ufe, lifeertvy( 16 )snd eternal falvation. Here is the meeting place thenof thefe glorious perledlions of God : here is the perfonin Whom they center, that they may be all glorified tothe higheft, mercy, truth, righteoufneft and peace, all !are pleafed, Mercy is gratified, and conftitutes him t® 'jbe the merey-feat. Truth is fatisfied, and centers irt 1him as the way, the fruth and the life. Righteoufnefs iis contented, and declares him to be theXord, our righr :teoufnsfs. Peace is perfected, and proclaims him to be :the Prince of peace; yea, not only are all the members iof the meeting pleafed and fatisfied tor themfelves, in ,|the advancement of their own particular interefts but they jare infinitely well pleafed in each other; and that theinterehs of their feemingly oppofite parties, are advan-. |Ced; as well as their o%vn particular claims. Mercy is ipleafed that truth hath got all its demands, and truth is !pleafed that mercy hath got all her defire, and righte¬oufnefs is pleafed that peace is proclaimed ; and peace ispleafed that righreoufntfs is honoured. Mercy and peacerejoice that they are magnified to the infinite glory ofrruth and righteoufnefs, and truth and righteculnefs re¬joice, that they are glorified to the infinite plealure ofmercy and peace : and hence they not only meet toge¬ther, but kifs One another. Here you fee where thmeet together. So much for an anfwer thereto more g"- 1nerally. , , - i1. More particularly, as to the meeting time, you may jtake thefe following particulars for further clearing of itv IAlthough this Me fled meeting, once taking place, is ftillicontinued, and fo cannot be faid properly to adjourn |from time to time, and from place to place; for this af-,fembly never diffolves, yet in a fuitablenefs to our vveak.capacity and finite nnderflaxiding, which- cannot rightly |conceive of a meeting that never had a tirne to meet, jbecaufe they met in eternity, and never fhall have a time ,to part, bccaufe they meet to *:ernity. We cannot con- ;ceive of it, I fay but by taking it, as it were, into fo many :parts, or confidering * in fo many periods, and there »•>( Jthefe eight remarkable periods, wherein mercy aim lpeace meet with truth and right«6ufnefs and kifs cacrdl: pther.( *7 ) 'i. The firft remarkable period is this, they meetgether at the council table of the covenant ffoundation 0fX.vorld was laid, ere ever the morninr ftars fnnn, ^ ur incliF?“"i T'hUlh?“ L0S"h'r' Ri> *"oufnefSand Sac’ti«.d each other, for the council of peace did then meet.~<edi. vi. 13 and all was concerted bvinfinfre C*how Mercy Ihould be magnified, fruth clearedjeoufnefs vindicated, and Peace’concluded,3^t-hrift, who according to the tenor of 3X1 1IXwhereof the covenant of grace is bu* a ^ c°venantgive his foul an offering for fim and rhirw^0 7”?feed and the pleafure of the Cd to ' ofoeMn hi,rh«t It was that this piealant meeting in him was firftconftitute, as you may fee, Prov. viii ,0 ,! K ■fet up from everlafting, ere ever the earth was ^QoTinal his glorious perfedions was delighted in Him a j •nand as it were emanations therefrom • for it is a mLr *tence that was pronounced ‘ Thl fle'd 'f‘tapP? fen‘• ftall bruife the head of the fernent^ fi °f W<,”Mhold nghteoufnefs and peace kifs one another ill'rh1' “H"God and man Th “ h:!p?), pM“under the Old Tellament l and'k^heTcaa'facrifi UPpoinung out the great propitiatory facrM«'°ee-Micah. y. 2, at, j, &}•' pon ^fari» 8 incarnation.( iB )4. Another remarkable period is their meeting toge¬ther at the banks of Jordan, when Ohrid was baptized,Mat. iii. 13, 16, 17, 6e.5. Another remarkable period is their meeting toge¬ther in the garden of Gethfemant, when Chrilt being m•agonv, did fweet great drops of blood under the prtfiuieof avenging juftice, every drop of blood was an ocean ofmercy, and while he was preft in the wme-prefs of God swrath, Mercy was expreffed No mercy to Chnlt, torGod fpared nor his own Son, even when he cried, mer¬cy, merer, God's mercy, faying Father, if it be thy v. nj,remove this cup from me. No, no mercy was thown tohim, otherways no mercy had been (hown to us, jutticemud have its due from him, that mercy might vent to¬wards us: and fo here Mercy and Truth meet together.6 Another remarkable period is their meeting onmount Calvary where Chrift was crucified It was ujonthe crofs of Chiift that mercy and truth met together,that righteoufnefs and peace killed each other; for thereit was that he paid aH the eledt’s debt to the lalt taithingmat Truth and Righteoumefs could demand, until //e< rUd tnth a loud voice, and /aid, it isfmjhed Hav¬ing done all that the law could enjoin, he fuffered allthat the law could threaten; fo as it cannot crave a far¬thing more. It is finilhed all that was fiipulated for witnthe Father in that federal tranfa&ion, all that was promnein that eternal compact is finilhed, every article agreed toIn thfcouncil of Pe,ce was finifhed. The bargain that hehad figned was with his hand, he now fealed wi h h 3blood • and in this appearance upon the crofs, or inobedience to the death did all the Attributes of God meet,-.s in a centre; andon this account was mount Calvary moreglorious than mount Sinai; for in mount Swat G^ ap¬peared in his terrible majefty, making the mountain totremble and the earth to fl.ake: but here in mount Cal-lary, he appeared not only in h.s terrible majefty, butm his tender mercy ; in his terrible fury againft fin, andin his tender favour towards the firmer: and now, thecontroverfy betwixt juftice and mercy feems at a crifis ,here was the critical juncture, wherein their dli‘eJ'«)demands behoved to be decided i and it was done >u( rp ) tfuch a folemnity as made the whole unlverfe, as It wereto tremble and quake: for then did God (hake, not theearth only, but alio the heaven : for when Chrift wasunder the mighty load of terrible wrath in the-'Cnner’sroom, mere was a great earthquake, and the heavensgrew b'ack, the fun was eclipled ; and that at a timecon rary to the common rules of nature, which made aHeathen philofopher at a diftance, cry out, ‘ that either{ the frame of nature was on the point of a diflblutionc or the God of nature was fuffering,:’ And indeed hewas fufFering unto blood and unto death. Behold theliving and eternal GOD here in our nature wounded todeath ; and bleeding out his life, to be a facrifics for fiuthat juftice might be farisfied, and mercy might be mag¬nified and all the Attributes of GOD glorified to theb-'gheft. O wonder ! that Gelgftha, the place of a fcullfhould be fuch a famous meeting place tor the divineperfections. It was a place of the greatefl fhame andignominy, but in him ‘ who endured the crofs, and‘ difpifed the Ibame,’ it was made a place of molt reT-pendent glory; for on the crofs of Chrift, Mercy andTruth, Piighteoufnefs and Peace met and embraced each,other. God’s Attributes did harmonioufly join together,fo that the one does not blacken, but illuftrate the gloryof the other; while they (hined glorioufly in the face ofChrift crucified, &S£ beautiful and bright conftellation ;for he was fet forth to be a propitiation to declare therighteoufnefs and juftice of God, together with his otherglorious names.7. Another remarkable period is their meeting fogd-'tber at the bar of GOD’s great juftice court in heaven,‘ within the vail, whether the lorerunner hath for us‘ entered, even Jefus,’ Heb. vi. laft. When Chrift wasupon the crofs, ‘ The vail of the temple was rent in‘ twain, from the top to the bottomand a way wasmade for entering into the holy of holies; and as thepriefts under the law were not only to offer the facrificewithout the camp, but after that, were to enter the bc-lieft of all, not without blood, but with the blood of thefacrifice, ‘ to fprinkle the mercy-feat, Lev. xvi. 14, ig.c Even fo Chrift having offered himfelf a facrifice, and; ( 20 y4 fuffered without the gate, Heb. xia. T2. He is entered* into the holy place by his own blood.’ Heb. ix i2.there to appear as our high prieft in the power and vir¬tue of his blood, to make a full atonement, and fprinklethe mercy-feat. Hence believers are faid ‘ to be cometo Jems the Mediator of the new covenant, and to the‘ blood of fprinkling,’ and where is this? Even in hea¬ven as you fee in the context, Heb. xii. 23, 24. * Noic‘ m this work Cbrift carried the price of his blood into; the very prefence of God for us,’ Heb. ix. 24. and paidit down before bin*; and in this ad, juflice hath itsfatis-ladtion brought home, and by this ad, Mercy and jurticeadually are met; for hereby Chrift fprinkled the veryinerey feat with blood, all over, both upon it, and beforeit, as the forecited Lev. xvi. reprefents: For the merev-feat of old flood fo, that it could be feen but two ways, jnamely, upon it and before it, and as a table next to the !Wall, and fo this points out, that what ever way we lookto mercy by faith, we may fee mercy and blood mixt,Mercy and juftice met together, and all forts of mercyconveyed thro the blood of Chrift, top mercies, and ftdemercies, upper mercies of a fpiritual nature, and lower jmercies of a temporal nature, for the mercy-feat • isfprinkled with blood upon it, and before ir, and what¬ever way you look to it. The facrifice was finifliedon the crofs, and all facrifice finiftied therein, but theblood of the facrifices behoved alfo to be carried withinthe vail in order to the full atonement, that which waswritten in blood upon the crofs, might be fealed in theprefenee of God at the heavenly bar; and we a£l not ourfaith far enough for redemption, unlefs we follow Chrifl:from the crofs to the bar of God’s juftice court in heavento fee all fealed and fecured there within the vail, wherethis blood is expofed as it were, and pled at the bar :where ‘ Mercy and Jufticc met together, and embrace* each other.’8. Another remarkable period is their meeting toge¬ther at the bar of confcience, God’s lower court on theday of a&ual reconciliation betwixt God and the {inner;For then, the bleod of Chnjl^ iuho through the eternalSpirit, did ofer him/elf xjithmt fpot to Cod, doth purge( 21 ) —the confeience, Heb. ix.' 14. And the bhodof [pririkling,| •wherewith the ctnfcience is purged from dftid works to[ferve the living God, doth put forth its purgative powerand virtue by a certain internal fpeech; and what doth itfpeak in the confciecce ? It /peaks better things than theblood of Abel, that fpeaks vengeance, but this fpeaksMercy and Peace, in conjunction with Truth, Rigtue-oufnefs, and juftice; For wherever juftice failsfyingblood cries for Mercy and Peace, there Mercy and TruthRighteoufnefs and Peacemeet and embrace each other. Thisblood is the cerrent whereby they are joined together:before this blood be applied, the confcience of the con¬vinced (inner is all in a flame like mount Sinai; Thun-! der and lightning, and (moke and darknefs asd the fearof hell and vengeance, compiffitig the foul about whikit is arraigned at the inftance Of the fiery law, to pay thedouble, debt to the mandatory and minatory part of thelaw,that is perfect obedience upon the pain ofete/nal deathand damnation. 1 he finner finds himfelf loft and undonefor ever by the law : but then, when ever the blood ofSprinkling comes in, and appears at the bar of confcience■ it fpeaks better things; it is a better fpeaker than the law rAnd what fays it? Why, the language of it is, with yourleave, O law, you have nothing to crave, for Chrift theSon of God was arraigned at the inftance of divine juf*tice, to pay all this debt, becaufe he was the finnersfurety and fubftanee, and he a&ualjy paid it, by obey¬ing the command, and undergoing the penalty of thelaw ; and for this l produce the ancient records of God,In the volume of his book, it is written If Cht ijly that•when facrifce and offering would not. He faid, Lo, 1come, I delight to do thy will: and that the Lord hathlaid on him the iniquity of us all. That he was made acurfe for us, yea, that he was made fn for us even hewho knew no fin, that we might become the righteoufnefsof God in him : And therefore, O law, though thou haft;■i ruth and Righteoufnefs on thy fide, yet Truth andilighteoufnefs have met with Mercy and Peace, and theyhave concerted matters and agreed harnaonioufly, andkifled one another, in token of their full agreement inChfift, fo that in Chrift all charges are anfwciedj and( 22 )tlius in the believer’s confcience all parties meet too¬ther.3. The third thing pronofed, was how and after whatmanner is it, that they meet together, and Infs eachother. We are to conceive of it- after the manner ofGod j for it is mote than a meeting of faints, it is more !than a meeting of angels, it is a divine meeting ci all theglorious Attributes of God, and we may. notice thefefollowing qualities of it. i1. It it is a wonderful and myflenous meeting, it isabove our comprehenfion; O how wonderful a meetingis this I The very name of the per fin t that is made tht*t'lfung place, the meeting place is called wonderful, ffa.ix. 6 ^ Becauf'e the meeting is about tis, His name is j1culled Immanuel, Gcd with us, O how myfterious i« th>smeeting! Great is the my/lery of godlinefs, God mani-fefted in thefiefo, t Tim tii. 16. 1 hat is all the Attri¬butes of God meeting together, and harmonisufly em- !bracing one another in the eternal Son of God, whohath aflumed our nature into his own perfonality ; this Iis the moft wonderful myfterious meeting that ever wasin heaven or earth.2. It is a joyful meeting, they meet with infinitepleafure and fatisfatfbon in one another. Dehold myServant, whom / uphold, mine eh FI in whom my fouldelighteth, Ifaiah xlli. r. As the perfetftions of God areglorified in Chiift, fo they rejoice and are delighted inhim, For Jehovah is well pleafed for his rightcoifnefsJake, and therefore the pleafure of the Lerd foall prof¬fer in his hand and he-(hall fee the travel of his foul andbefatisf ed. Surely, if God hath his phafure, and Chiifthis fatisfadTon, no Attribute of the divine majefiy, nomember ot the meeting is difpleafed or out of humour;no, no, This is my beloved Son in whom lam well pleaf¬ed. My juftice is pleafed, my mercy is pleafed, and allmy other Attributes are pleafed. O it is a h'eartfomepleafant and joyful meeting! may ail that hear me be•well pleafed to fee it, no joyful meeting, but what hathrefpedft to this.3. It is a holy meeting; Some meetings among menthat are called heart-feme meetings, yet are very unholyI *3 > .land (infill meetings, but here is an infinitely holy meet-ling. Holinefs ta the Lord is the motto of it. A meetingos hoiy faints and holy angels is not fuch a holy meet¬ing as this meeting of the holy Attributes of God to ad¬vance the great dtfign of infinite holtnefs: All the holymeetings that ever were or will b$, are the refult of this,land the effect of fome portion of holinefs fait from ir,for all hoiinefs iffues trom it. Here Mercy and ('ruthmeet together in a holy manner, R'ghtebufnefs andI Peace fainte each other in a holy way, and greet onej another with a holy kifs.I 4. It is a happy meeting, all happinefa and bleffing8I flow from this meeting : Chrift the meeting place is thecenter of all fpiritual bkffings, Eph. i. 3. Many un¬happy meetings have been m the world fince fin entered| into it, and finful unholy meetings are always miferableand unhappy meetings, but this holy meeting mult, be! a happy meeting, and this holy kifs muft be a happy kifs.I It Mercy a d Truth had not met together, we had ne' er! met w;th God, if righteonfnefs and peace had neverI kiffed each.other, we had never got a kifs. of the fairI face of the Son of God, nor never been taken into thedivine embraces.5 It is a free meeting, Mercy and Truth met toge-| ther freely, without being confirained, llighteoufnefsand Peace kiffed each other freely, without being forced.No motive froth without could ever take place to moveGod to call this meeting from eternity : it was accordingto his oven purpofe and grace, -which is given us in ChrijtJefus before the -world began. 2 Tim. i. (j. Free fievc-reign grace is the original of the meeting. It is alfoI fuch a free affs.nbly, where every member mighty freelyfpeak, and not one to interrupt another, as is ufual inmeetings among men, where (ome cry one thing, andlome another, in a confufed manner, like that affcmbly,I Adts xis. 32. where it is faid. The affmbly -was confufed,and the greater part kne-w not -wherefore they -were metI together, and fome cried cue thing, and fome another.1 No,-titis meeting is irec in oppolhion both to ail con-flraint and coinpuifion from without, and to all confu-Uon and cpmmorion from within- where fcvctcigu freegrace is the mafxer conveener, there can be no compuffion, and where the God of order is the great managerth»re could be no confufion, and where the God of peaovras all in all, there ceuld be no difiention.. Therefore,d. It is a harmonious meeting, whatever differentclaims and pretenfiens the members of the meeting feerrto have, yet they harmonioufly concur in advancing oneanother’s honour and glory, and hence, as they mutuallymeet together, fo they afieftionately embrace one ano¬ther; there was no difcord at this affembly, no proper^variance or driving for date, but gloricufly confpire withjoint hearts and hands, to glorify each other in the fal-vation of a company of finners by Jefus Chrilt. Thedivine effence is undivided, and as there are three that Ibear record in heaven, the Father, the Word and the Spi- int, and the/c three are one. So the Attributes of God,,however manifold to our apprehenfion, yet there is no .diviilcn among them, they are all one, and their con- -fpiring together in Chrift for our redemption, is calledmanifold wi/dom of God; The manifold perfections of IGod meet together in one, with one content and withone heart. Behold Meroy and juftice in one another'sarras: and fo clofe is the embracement, that they are juftone: Tho’ it is a full meeting, and all parties prefent^yet there is no war, no jar, no diffention, no divifion,but all harmony and concord, and Jove and affe£tion:it is the m«ft peaceable meeting that ever was. And yet,7. Ii is a bloody meeting and never was, and neverwill there be fuch a bloody meeting in heaven or earth,the mercy-feat muff be fprinkled with blood, Mercy,cannot be vented without blood, Truth cannot be clearedwithout blood, Righteeufnefs cannot be vindicated with¬out blood, and Peace cannot be purchafed without blood;"without Jheddir.g of blood there is no remijfion, no mercyto be vented, no peace to be proclaimed, thrift hathmade peace by the blood of his c-rofs, Col. i. 20.—A bloodyhvjband haft thou been unto me, faid Zipporah; but Ohow much more may Chrift fay, a bloody meeting hath jthis been unto me! Who is this that cometh from Edom,•with dyed garments from Bozrah, Ifa. Ixiii. 1. Why, |what is the matter that this garment is dyed with blood?. - ( 2S ): Why ? when Mercy and Truth met together, they pref-■j fed to be fo near one another in him, that they prelled| the blood out of his veins, and fo it was a bloody mtet-' ing: and when Rtghteoufnefs and Peace-kifled each o-j ther, it behoved to be in Chrift, and fo the fword ot juf-I tice behoved to pierce him thro’and through that fothefe facred lips might meet and kits each other in hisI heart, and fo it was a bloody kifs; they killed each otherwith fuch good will; that Chrift was as it were, bruifedbetwixt their lips, that the blood might cement and gluethem together. One would think, fuch a bloody kifswould be no pleafant kifs ; nay, but it plea/ed the Father\ to bruife him, they met together on a fea of blood : Thus| it was a bloody meeting. Again,8. It is ah efficacious meeting, many meet and afft-m-; ble together, and yet do nothing for their meeting, it isto no effeft; but here Mercy and Truth meet togetherefficacioudy, co-operatively, all is done at the meeting,that God propofed to be done, and all is done that con¬cerns the glory of God and falvation of man; their meet-ing together, is their working together, and that to per¬fection, For God the Lord is a rocky and his work is per-, fett. Their meeting together, is their building together,' PfJ. Ixxxix. 2, 3. I have (aid meccy [hall be built up for\ ever: thy faitbfninefs Jhalt thou eflablijh in the veryheavens. There is Mercy and l ruth both a building,and the foundation of the building is laid in Chrift. /j have made a covenant with my chofen, &c.9. Ir is an unexpe&ed meeting, it is beyond the ex-pedtation of men and angels It friends and intimatesfhould meet, and falute one another, it would not befurprifing; but to fee oppofites, Antipodes, and Anta-gonids meet together and embrace each other, this werefurprifing and unexpe&ed; fo to fee lighr and darknefs,love and enmity, life and death meeting, how unexpec¬ted were that ? Thus it is here, Mercy and Truth, High-| teoufnefs and Peace, thefe Attributes of God, with re-I fpe& to us, were oppofites and Antipodes. The lan-i g'JaSe of Truth and Righteoufnefs is death and damna-I tion to the finner, the language of Mercy and Peace is1 Ilfs ancl falration to the finner; and when a (inner finds  . D( 26 ) .himfelf purfucd tor death at the inftance o£ divine juf-tice, arid the truth and veracity of a God engaged againfthim, according to the threatening of the law. 6 howtmexpefted a rencounter is it ? when he finds Mercyand Peace meeting with Juftice and Truth and floppingthe purfuit, according to the promife of the gofpel to thecredit of the oppofite parties, faying, d liver his foul fromgoing-down to the pit: I have found a ranfome, and foall odds are made even, all oppofites reconciled, to theinfinite furprife, and beyond the expe£htion of all creat- .ed beings. No wotider then, upon this meeting difco-vered, the poor foul cries, Is this the manner of man, 0Lord? 0 -who is like unto thee ! Nay, there is none likeunto th God of Jefhurun, that rides on the heaven fortheir help, and in his excellency on the fkies.to. It is an t-verlafting, indifibvable meeting, othermeetings will adjourn their meetings from time to timeand from place to place : yea, other meetings muft part,and when they part, they may never meet again, andwe that are here met, muft part, and never all meetagain, in time, even as fome others that met toge¬ther with us the laft year, are away to eternity. Bur,O this meeting betwixt Mercy and Truth, Righteouf-nefs and Peace, it is a meeting where there is no part¬ing, the meeting is from everlafting to-everlafting, theirmeeting together, and kiffing each other, is an eternaland unchangeable meeting, and an eternal and un¬changeable kifs. It is every way like God, without be¬ginning, without ending, and without fucceflion. What¬ever beginning, iflue, or increaie it hath with refpe£tto its manifeftation to us, yet in itfeif, it is ftill the famein Chrift Jefus, Who is the fame yeflerday, to-day, andfor ever, Heb. xiii. 8. without any vartablenefs orfha-dow of turning. The meeting never breaks up, it is acontinued meeting, never to be diflblrcd, and therethey kifs one another to all eternity, for his mercyenduretb for ever, and his righteoufnefs to all genera¬tions; and becaufe of truth, meeknefs and nghteoufnefs,In his majefty he fliall ride profperoufiy, and of the en-creafe of his government and peace there fhall be noend. I have faid, Mercy {hall be built up fo? ever, and I( 27 )have faid, truth fhall be eftablidied in the heavens."Why, what is the meaning of all thefe expreffions?The language is as if one glorious Attribute of God,fhould fay to another, O ! the fin of man fet us all, asit were, at variance, and the whole creation knows nothow to reconcile God with himfelf, if he fhall fave onefinner; but, behold, we having met together in Chriftthe Righteoufnefs, the ranfom, the atonement, the pro¬pitiation; having met together, we fhall never partagain, having embraced one another in behalf of you,poor miferable Gnners, our arms fhall never feparate, thatare clafped together. Mercy and Truth have met toge¬ther, faying, you and I fhall never part. Righteoufntfsand peace have kifled each other, faying, you and 1 fhallnever funder, nor fufpend the embracement, neitherdeath nor life, nor hell, nor devils, no; fin irfeif, (hallever feparate us. It is a bargain among us, a divinematch, they have met together by an everlaftirg cove¬nant, fealed the bargain with an everlafting kifs. and cafla knot in an everlafting righteoufnefs, which is theband'of the union, even Chrift, for the covenant doerfiandfajl -with him, Pfal. Ixxxix. 28. Where you will alfofee how this everlafting meeting is eftabliftied in Chrift,v. 14. Juftice aud judgment are the habitation of thythrone, or the eftablifhment of thy throne, as it may berendered, and my mercy and truth fhall go before thy facttand v. 21. 'with him my hand /hall be ejlablifhed, and myfaithfidnefs, and mercy fhall be -with him, and v. 28. Mymercy •will 1'keep for him forever. Thus it is an erer-lafting meeting.The fourth thing propofed, was, why, or for whatreafons they have met together, and kifled each other?Why have the perfections of the glorious God confpiredfo harmonioufly, and met together in fuch a fweet fo-lemnity? Surely fuch a meeting as this muft have no-! ble defigns in view, and I’ll tell you thefe four reafons; of the meeting, or four things that were to be concerted| at this great aflembly. %!*• They met together, to concert meafures for ad¬vancing the glory of God to the higheft. Ihis parlia¬ment of heaven met together upon ways and foD 2   , ( 28 )bringing in the greateft revenue of pra.fe^ and glory tothe crown of heaven, to Father, Son, and Holy Gholt,and all the glorious Attributes of this great and eternalGod Thefe Attributes confpired harmonioufly to fetforth and glorify themfelves moft illuftrioufly : Theymet together and killed.one another, that they mightClorify each other. The glory of God was the firft andlaft end of the meeting. What is the chief end of jhan,but to glorify God, and enjoy him for ever? And U.What is the chief end of God ? It is even to glorify him -felf in all his perfeaions, and to enjoy himfelf for ever:And how dees God glorify himfelf mod brightly ? It >seven in Chrift the meeting place of thefc perfeaions,■with a view to our redemption, to the praife of the glorycf bis prace, 'wherein he hath made vs accepted in thebeloved, Eph. 1 6. And how does he enjoy himfelf moftfweetlv? It is even in Chrift, Behold mine eletl, in whomfKV foul delightcth. / was daily his delight, lays Chnft,Jhils my delight -was with the fons of men, Prov vni. 30.They met together to put a crown of glory and honourLI each other. Mam's fins and rebellion, and yourfin man, woman, and my fin (O that God d.lhonour-intr evil fin!) it had pulled off that crown of glory, as"VerJ Iron! .he head of .he g.ea. King e.ern.1 andimmortal, and caften i. imo .he m.re, and fta.nedNvith filth and dirt: But, behold, thefe Attributesof God meet together'to take up the crown, and to ruboff the daft and dung that fin had call upon it.[No. HLjTHEHARM O N YO F T H Edivine attributes.From PSALM Ixxxv. i o.Mercy and Truth are met together, Righ-teoufnefs and Peace have kiffed each ot her.AND to add fome fparkling jewels to that than ever,and fet it upon the head of their fovereign, tothe higheft praiies of his metcy, jaftice truth, nghte-oufnefs and grace, and love, and holinefs, and wildonand all his other excellencies; that men and angels migh'fing and fay, C/ory to Cod tn the higejl. &c. that aVthe faints may fing a concert, in piaife of the meeting betwixt Mercy and Truth, Jufticc and Peace, faying, Pfalm Ixxxix. 14. > - LJufiice and judgment of thy throne [Shall be the dwelling-place:Mercy accompany'd with truth, /Shall go before thy face. fAnd that every faint might fing the fifty fevenfh Pfalr.and 9th and loth Verfes. - »Ml praife thee ’moug the people LORD., :'Mong nations fing will l; 1Tor great to heaven thy mercy is, ,Thy truth doth reach the /Icy. y•They met together to put a crown'of Olory upsthe head of Chrift, Heb ii. 9. id whe n th 3 met. i saflembly did conveen for rh^ coron . ion 01 -God; for, he having humbledhimfelf, and !:■, . obfufL'.lX. Unto death, even the death of the crofs. Cod hath highlyexalted him, and given him a name above every name,rr*hil. ii. to. That at the name 0/ JESU S, every knee'Jhould bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, andthings under the earth, and that every tongue fiouldconfefs that Jefus Cbrift is Lord, to the Glory of Cod theFather. Chrift hath glorified the Father, and therefore' the Father glorified him, John xii. 3 r, 32. And now isthe Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him;and if God be glorified in him, God firall aifo glorifyhim in himfelf. Him that henoureth me, 1 will honour,fays God : and in whom does this take place to perfec¬tion ? It is in Chrift, God is honoured molt highly byhim ; and therefore he is honoured moft highly of God.Amen,fo let it be ; and fo fhall it be And thereforeit is concerted in that meeting, that all the faints lhallglorify him. Hence that royal edict comes forth, He isTry Lord, worfhip thou him, PHI, xlv. 11. And lo weind them doing, Rev. v. 9. Thou art worthy to take the!mk, and open the [eals, for thou was Jlain, and haft re-leemed us to Cot by thy blood —It is concerted m thatneeting, that all the angels {hall glorify him. Hencehe edi£t comes forth, Let all the angels of God worjhipim, Heb. i. 6. and fo we them find doing. Rev. v. u,2* ^ heard the voice of many angels, and the number ofhem was ten thoufaud times ten thoufand, and thoufandr thoufands, faying with a loud voice, worthy is theAMI', that was flain, to receive power, and rlines,id wifdom, and ftrength, and honour, and glory, andeffing.—It is concerted in this meeting, That all-theeaturcs in heaven and earth, fea and land, fhallglo-fy him, as we fee, verfe 13.’ But left the fmfuleatures upon earth, like you and me, fhould not glorifym or fee his glory, it is concerted in that gloriouseeting, that the Holy Ghoft, the eternal Spirit, one)d, equal in power and glory with the Father andt Son, {hall be fent down to the earth to glorify himbn xvi. 14. ‘ He fhall glorify me, for he fhall receivef mine, and fhew it unto you,' Ol hath the Spirit ofH been {hewing any thing of Chrift: among yc^ this\! Any thing of his grace, fulnefs, righteoufnefs, fo as toglorify hin:, and make him gloriou* above all things t«i you : Why then, we may reckon that you h?.?e foundfomething cf the favtng fruitr. of this glorious meeting;For the grand defign of it was to glorify God in Chrift,i by the Spirit. They met to concert all things relating tothe glory of the Father, in the Son, by the Holy Gholt.dhey met to confult their own glory in Chrift, thatMercy and Truth might be glorified in him.2. They met together to concert their proper work*in carrying on this graat end, of the glory of God, andhis perfections : I hey do not meet together to fit idle,and do nothihg; No, they meet together to concert eachof them their proper bufinefs, as Chrift faid to his friends.Wherefore was it that ye fought me ? Wtji ye not that 1mufi be about my Fathers bufinefs? So may I fa^ here,the Attributes of God met together, that they may toabout God’s bufinels. What bufinefs ? What work be¬longs to each of them feverally? Why, Mercy and Truthmeet togemer, that they may be fent upon an embafTytogether, Pfi-1. Ivii. 3. Godfhall fend forth his mercy andhis truth, his mercy ro give in the p.omife of the gofpel,and his truth to make out .the fame: Thus mercy andtruth meet together, that they may be fent forth uponfome gracious expedition, particularly, both to be lead-ers and followers to the remnant, whom God appointedunto life. On the one hand, to be leaders, hence theTialrnift cries, Pial xliii. j 0 fendftrth thy light andthy truth : let them lead me, and bring me to thy holyhill, and to thy tabernacle ; then will l go to the al¬tar of God to God my exceeding joy. Behold, thewonderful bufinefs of mercy and truth, and the workthey are fern out upon, even mercifully to lead blindfouls to a God in Chrift On the other hand, it is tobe not only leaders, but followers, Pfal. xxiii. 6 Surelvgoodnefs and mercy Jhall follow me all the days of my life.If the child of God, under any temptation, refufe to beed by mercy and truth, and give up with them as hisleaders, yet for all that, he fhall not hinder them to be.mi r ,iWerS ’ ™ay run out of God’s way, but mercywill,follow and bring him back; and when mercy fol-fews, If is ay it\ gompany with tfuth; And, O wfiaf( 3* ) ^ ,think you of this wonder ? Mercy and Truth meet toge¬ther, that they might go forth together, like two pages, tofollow you, believer, through all the fteps of your wilder-nefs journey; Goodnefs and mercy fball follov) me all thedays of my life. Here is a piece of work, that Mercyand Truth have met together y.for, even to be tent forthasJeaders and followers of poor e!e£l: finners, till theybe out of all hazard. In Emmamiers land, •where glory ;dwells; See Pfal. Ixi- 7. but then, as Mercy and Truthhave met together, to purfue their proper work, fo Righ-teoufneiTs and Peace have killed each ether for purfuingof their’’*. Well, fay you, what is the work of P,igh--.teoufnefs and Peace ? You have a word in the lafl verfeof this Pfalm, where our text lies, ‘ Righseoiifnefs JJjall* go before him, and fet us in the way of his Jlepsd Di¬vine righteoufnefs difplaying itfelf iH Chrift Jefu?, theSon of Righteoufnefs, goes before him to prepare his |way, and bring us to God, and to cur duty, and to befure, whenever righteoufnefs goes before, Peace will fol¬low after; 4 for the fruit of righteoufnefs is peace, whe¬ther it be imputed or implanted: Here then the work ofrighteoufnefs and Peace kiffing each other, is to bring inthefe blejfed effeHs in their order ; we confider them asdivine perfeliions in the text, and in thefe effeHs, High -teoufnefs leads the van, and Peace comes up in the rear. |- 3. Thefe Attributes confpire harmonionfly, theymeet together and kifs each other, for this reafon, that jby their meeting together, they may concert the dillblv*jng of fome unhappy meetings. Thefe oppofite like At¬tributes of God meet together, that feme intimates maybe fe pa rate, and fad and finful agreements may be brokenUp, Ifa. xxviii. 15 'there is a fad meeting and agree¬ment we read of. We have made a covenant with death,and with hell, arc we at agreement. Why, is not thisthe cafe of all men by nature ? Yea ; but how is this fadand mifrrable meeting diflblved ? See verfe 16. Behold, /lay in Zion for a foundation, aftone, a tried flone, a pre¬cious corner-flone, a fure foundation Judgment alfo v. ill jJ lay to the line, and Rightcoufnefs to the plummet. Well,when judgment and righteoufnefs mercifully meet inChrift> the fure foundation, what will be the effeft? It; follows, verfe 17, 18. The hailJhallfwecp away the re¬fuse ef lies, and your covenant with death Jhall be dif-annuiled, and yew agreement with hell Jhall not jl and.Whatever fad afpe£t this fcnpture may have ro the dii-p'jfers of Chrift, yet it hath a merciful afped to all the| chofen of God, and all that defire to cleave to the LordJefus : yea, there is here a foundation of faith laid forall that hear the joyful found, that whatever finful andmiferable meeting and agreements there are betwixt helland them, betwixt death and them, yet it cannot (land(before this glorious meeting, that was defigned to break( up and diflblve the oppofite meetings, that itand m a con-itrariety thereto. There are many black unions whichthis bit fled union does diflblve, and there is no diflblvingjqi them, but by this blefled meeting. There is the black] union betwixt the finner and the law, which isihe fpun-jdaiion of the black union betwixt the finner and his fin:I For, when the union betwixt him and the Jaw is dillbl-1 ved, then the union betwixt him and his fin is difiolved,1 according to Rom. vi 14 Sin Jloall not have domini-*I on over you, for ye are not under the law, but undergrace. Now, what is the covenant of grace? Why,Mercy and Truth meeting together, Righteoufnefs andPeace kifiing each other in Chrifl: Jefu , is the fubltance,the marrow, the kirnel of the covenant, of grace; andit is this blefled meeting, that diflblves the union be-twixt the finner and the law, and fo betwixt the firmerj and his fin. O! view the glorious defign of this meet¬ing ! They met together that you might be feparate from| your fad afibciates ; by nature you and the devil had mettogether, and you was a flave to him, and it is the vir<-tue of this meeting in Chrift, that diflblves that; Theheed of the woman Jhall bruife the head of the Jerpcne.The world and you had met together, and you tookpleafure in your wicked companions, or elfe was whollydrowned in worldly aftairs; O it is the faith of thismeeting that diflblves that! This is the vi&ory that over¬comes the world, even our faith The curfe of God andyou had met together, and you lie under that curfe, tillin the faith of this meeting, you (hall fee, that Chrilthath becom« a curfe for us. This meeting is defigned“V*( 34 )fa the breaking up of all thefe, and the like unhapp*meecmgs 1 hey met togethei in a glorious band, tcloofe all the knots that the devil had tyed.4. ^ hefe k»lorrous Attributes of God, do confpirebarmomoufly; they ^eet together and kifs each otherrii ) mig 1 coricert and carry on fome happy meetingf, and make up fome bletTed matches. Thefe oppofite-like Attnbutes harmonioufly meet, that oppofites, andL ' !tingS T'gLht meet togethcr harmonioufly:and kifs each o.her, whither real or feeming oppofues.iA I here are real bppofites that meet together bar-hrT;'tMe’lixV'116 thiS gI°ri0US meetin^ Particu-1 hefe oppofite like Attributes meet together har-^ n r °iipCfite natu,eS mlght meet together,ev n that God and man rmght meet together, and em-rwL 3re thefe two m«tings be*tw.xr God and man, that were concerted at this meet^■ngrh °"e .t*1156. meeting betwixt God and man,in hr hypoftatica! union of the two natures of Chrift, ouri™maT:{ God-™™>™ one per/on. This is the great my-IJery of Godimefs, God mamfeft in the flefh, and this^sthe foundation of all other faving and merciful meetingsbetwtxtGod and mam The other is the meeTing £Ind hi?^ '"'V11 thC fpi'it.Ual Union bctwixt thriftm hp sSrV f r0ne- myffical Perfon* by the bondo, the Spirit, for he that is joined to the Lord is one fpi-m ;.and this union is the foundation of all fpiritual com-manion with God. We are not only at an infinite na-u.al diftancefrom Gcd, as we are creatures, but at aninfinite moral diftance from him, as we are criminals andtinners: But the Attributes of God met together andkiL each other m Chrift, that God and man might meettogether, m a clofe fpiritual union, and kifs each oTrin a fweet fpintual communion ; whatever fpiritual com-mumon you have with God, believer, this day, it flowsChrift and th’°US .meetin/of thc Attributes inChrift, and this union and communion is indeed a meet*mg of oppofite natures: God became man, and took oncur nature, and he make* us partakers of his nature, &c-a. Thefe oppofite-like Attributes meet togetner ana;kifs each other, that oppofite wills might meet, and em¬brace each other. God’s will and ours areoppoGte; thisis indeed a branch of the former, but our wil^s are thegreat forts of corrup' nature, that (lands out againft Godand his will: We are enmity againft God, and noc lub-je£l to the law of God, neither indeed can be. Now,Uow comes the will to be reconciled to God's will ? Itis only by Chrift, in whom the perfections of God meettogether: Thy people (hall be willing in the day of thypower.3. Thefe oppoGte-like Attributes meet and kifs eachother, thatoppoGte perfons, Jews and Gentiles, man andman, that were ekemies and haters of one another, mightmeet together, that Jews and Gentiles might meet to¬gether, and men at variance with men might meet to¬gether; hence it is faid of him, in whom the Attributesof God do meet. He is our peace, Eph. ii. 14. who hathmade both one, and hath broken diwn the middle wall ofpartition : Having abohfbed in the jlejh the enmity. Sec.If any man flay the enmity to God or man, this is it.4. Thefe oppoGte-like Attributes of God meet andfcifs each other, that oppoGte climates might meet toge¬ther. I mean, that heaven and earth might meet toge¬ther, the church militant, and the church triumphant.Heaven and earth were at variance by our Gn, but nowin Chrift, faints in heaven, and faints in earth meet to¬gether. Hence we are faid to become the general afrfembly, and church of the Gi ft-born, that are written inheaven, to the fpirits of juft men made perfeCl. All be¬lievers are faid to be thus, Come to mount Zion, to theheavonly Jerufalem, Heb. xii. 22. Yea, in Chrilt, angelsin heaven, and men on earth, do meet together. Hencebelievers are faid to become to the innumerable com¬pany of angels; and the angel of the Lord encamps aboutthem, &c. Yea all things in heaven and earth do meettogether, and kifs each other in Chrift the meeting place.Col. i. 20. Having made peace by the blood of his crofs,by him to reconcile all things to himfelf: whether thingsin heaven or things in earth, Eph. i. 10. See h#w uponyet back of this meeting in the text, heaven and earthare aid to meet together in the following verfe TruthJhallfpring out of the earth; and Righteolfnetfhalllokdown from haven ; which I infirt nof upon here.5- Ihete oppofice-hke Attributes or God meet andkits each other, that oppofite covenants mi^ht meet andembrace each orher, eve,, ,he covenant 0f „ikThfr",:,i ,he ,n“"n* ^ ^ “i-vine p.rteC.tionS, Phefe two covenants do, as it wereEd pema obT6' P1'" T C°Venant of -kslom:mand pertcdl obedience? and being broken, did it de-TnTh ^0mPlete/at,sf^>°»? Behold Chrill’s obedienceto the death anfwers both ; God’s covenant of grace dif-penied to us ,s jull Chrift fulfilling for us theEenantof works; and fo m him they meet and kifs each other.Z'z&'Z'tx*'" **”*"'" ^0. fhefe oppofite-like Attribules of God meet andtbrreaChH0t:T’ that 0?p°fite thoughts might meet toge.*,,r ;.and .err'bf.ace each °,her> cven God’s thoughts andour thoughts; how oppofre thefe are you may fee, Ifa,17. 8. hor my thoughts are not your thoughts, nor yourivayy my -ways ; for as the heavens are higher than theA \{°fLre my hisher than your luays, and my^oughts than your thoughts. Some have ptefumptuoutih vgrb 3 th7 °n,y t0 G°d’S mercV> andh } think, certain,y God will have mercy omthem, tho’are|Praug7S f0 Chrift ’ the‘e are ^pofite toGod s thoughts, he hath no thoughts of (hewing mercy« at way. Othershavedefpairing thoughts while they lookroeerly or moflly to God’s juftice, and fo their thoughtsJ£, U, will God have mercy on the like of me! And hecannot in juftice fave the like of me! Thefe thoughts arcalfo oppofite to God’s thoughts; my thoughts are notyour thoughts met together; why, Jet a man view the^ firC)lwrd JUftlCu °f .G°d met together, and harmonicouflv kiffing each other in Chrift, fo as to fee God inthrift reco- c nig the world to himfelf. ff your thoughtsbe Spiritualized, to difeern mercy venting thro’ the faerfolice that fatisfres divine juftfoe, then God’s thoi-ghtsmndyour thoughts meet together and kifs each other. Thus thedmne Attributes meet together ftarmoaioufty, that realoppofites may meet together harmonioufiy. This glorlouemeeting lays a foundation for thefe happy meetings./idly> There are feeming oppofites that meet toge¬ther harmonioufiy, by virtue of this glorious meeting, as,i. Thefe oppofite like perfections of God meet toge¬ther, and kits each other harmonioufiy, that oppofite-likeprovidences might meet together, and kifs each other.There are frowning providences, and fmiiing providen¬ces, crofl'es and comforts in the believer’s lot; here is aprovidence that favours the promife, and there is a pro¬vidence that feems to contradict the prcmife; here is anup, and there is a down. Well, how fhall thefe unite to«gether ? Why, they meet and embrace each other inChrift, the meeting place ; For all things work togetherfor good to them that love him, and are the called accord¬ing to his purpofe. Hence we will find not only lightand darknefs in the believer’s lot, but fometimes lightand darknefs meeting together, Zech. xiv. 7. There youread of a day, that there is neither day nor night, yet aday known to the Lord, neither clear nor dark hut atevening time it fhall be light. There evening darknefsufhering in the morning lignt. Hence they have occafionboth to fing of mercy and of judgment; becaufe of theirmeeting together, and kifiing each other, and workingtogether for good; behold the crofs and the crown meet¬ing together. •2. Ihefe oppofite like perfections of God meet toge¬ther, and kifs each other, that oppofite-like defires maymeet, and embrace each other, while mercy defires ourlife, and juftice feems to demand our death, thefe arereconciled only in Chrift, in whom Mercy and Truth,Kighteoufnefs and Peace mec t and embrace each ocher,liut look to our own defire of God’s glory, and our faLvation, men and angels could never have contrived howthefe two defires could be reconciled, if rnercy and truthhad not met together, and kifi'ed each other; for theglory of God’s truth and righteoufnefs, in the threaten¬ing of his law, feems to reft fatisfied with nothing lefsthan our deftru£l:ion ; and therefore to defire God’s glo¬ry, would have been to defire our own damnation : andtohfequently in defiring our own falvation, we muft havetUfired God’s diOionour: But now this blefled contri¬vance of infin te wifdom, lets us fee how thefe two arenot only reconciled, but made infeparable. Having Jcforth Chrijl to be the propitiation through faith in hisblood, to declare his righteoufnejs in the remtjjion of Jins.3. Thefe feerningiy oppofite Attributes, meet and kiiseach other, that feetningiv oppofite graces might meetand embrace each o<het: for example, reverence andconfidence; how ihail fear and reverence meet togetheryrith faith and confidence? Why, Truih and Kighteouf-nefs are at the meeting, and therefore fear and reverencebecomes us; but Meicy and Peace are alfo on the bench,therefore faith and holy confidence may hoJdly '» iWe have boldnejs to enter into the hohejl bp the btooa ofJefus. u . ,4. Thefe oppofite-like Attributes meet and emoraceeach other, that oppofite-like duties may meet together ;Prayer and praife feem oppofite duties in tome cales ;prayer fuppofes our wants to be great, otherwiie, why(hould we pray? Praife fuppofes our enjoyments to begreat, otherwife, why fiiould we praife? ell, l ruth andRighteoufnefs, thefe awful Attributes, prefent at themeeting, fay, We have nothing in ourfelves, thereforewe ought to pray; but Mercy and Peace fay we aveenough in Chrift and therefore we ought to praife. Hu¬miliation and gloriation feem oppofite duties; but thefeemingly oppofite Attributes of God meeting togethei,bring alfo thefe duties to meet and embrace each other.Is Truth and Rightesufnefs in the company with 1 l^rcyand Peace? Then humiliation is our duty; but is Mer¬cy and Peace in company with Truth and Righteom-nefs, then gloriation is our duty : Let him that glories,glory in the Lord- r „ ,5. Thefe feemingly oppofite Attributes of God meetand embrace each other, that feemingly oppofue expe¬riences may meet and embrace each other, and be recon¬ciled, though feemingly irreconcileable. 1 here are fadexperiences, and fweet experiences : O ! here is the lariexperience of a guilty confcience a powerful corruption,and a conquering temptation ; Can ever that be recon¬ciled with the experience of holy ppace, pardon »t?d vic^, v f ( 39 ) .tary. lea, here is a foundation laid for the rtconcilla--tion of thefe oppofites: If Juftice and Mercy have mettogetnei, then a guilty conlcience, and a mercy-feat maymeet together; a prevalent corruption and a pardoningpurifying blood may meet together; as they did in therfalmitta cafe, Pul lXv. 3. Iniquities prevail againjime : But as for our tranferejjions, thou 1x1 ilt purge themaway. The fad experience of fatherly anger, or of thefeeling of divine wrath, may meet with the fv/eet expe¬rience of felt love and favour; for Mercy and Jultice aremet together, l!a. Iiv. 7. 8. The fad experience of per¬plexing thoughts may meet with the fweet experience offpintual confoiarion, and be fv/allowed up therein; findeIruth and Jullice have met with Mercy and Peace:Hence it was that thefe two met together in DavidtPlal. xciv. 19 In the multitude of my thoughts withinmc^ thy com/orti delight my foul. ( )! is fuch a fad ex-peiience confiftent with an interdt in Chrift? Why,both terrible and amiable Attributes of God meet td-,gh'hre!i ft Ch,rifti an<i therefore it is not ftrange, thatthe fade!! and fweeteft experiences meet together, fo as”0trn bft inrCOn/lltcnt wirh the ftate of a believer that isin Chrift. 1 o fee awful Juftice, and lovely Mercy meet-ing together in a fweet fmeliing (acrifice, is a greaterwonder, fha» to fee your fadeft and fweeteft experiences" r 'ng/D C,hr;ft»fto op a Hallelujah, Praife yethe Uul; mi the former meeting is the reafon of this.6. Phefe irreconcilable-like Attributes of God meetand embrace each other, that irreccncileable like ferin-How S|UFmHCt t0geth'-r and cmbrace «ach Other:How fhall Exod. xxx.x. 7. He will by no means clearthe guilty, or juftify the fmuer, be reconciled with Rom.iv. 5. vvhere ne 1? faid to juftify the ungodly. O ! howcan thefe two oppofites n.eet together? Why, Mercyand Truth have met together in Chrift, to make up amatch betwixt them : A ranfom is found, a propitiationis fit forth; why then, thefe oppofite-like feriptures maymeet ogether and kifs each other. He wilt by no meansdear the guilty, without a ranfom, a propitiation. Well,is the ranfom found, and the propitiation fet forth? thenhe Will juftify the ungodly on that ground; Deliver his/ •' • / • ' ( 4° )foul from going down to the pit, I have found a ranfom.Now, he can juftify the fmner, and be juft in fo doing,while he draws him into Chrift by faith, Rom. iii. 25,26.—'Thus you fee the reafons of the meeting. In aword, they meet together upon a defign to bring thegreateft good out of the greateft evil, and the hiRheftglory out of the deepeft mifery, to the praife of all God’sglorious perfections.: The fifth thing propcfed, was the application, in afew inferences. ■ Is it fo, that in falvation of finners byJefus Chrift, the glorious Attributes and per!e£hons ofGod do thus harmonioufiy confpire, and embrace eachother? Then hence we may fee,r. What a dreaoful evil fin is, which fets all the At-tributes of God, as it were at odds, and puts all the worldinto confufion, and every thing out of order; it fets hea¬ven and earth, and all things in them at variance, oneagainfl: another. To think light of fin, is to think lightof this glorious meeting of divine Attributes, that mettogether to break this rebellion, and take order with thishorrid infurreClion againft heaven. O ! what a great mat¬ter is the falvation of a finner! Ere that can take place,this grand meeting muft be called ; all the injured Attri¬butes of God muft have ?hi honourable reparation. Juf-tice muft be fatisfied, Truth vindicated, Righteoufnefacleared; and in order to *il this, a f.rety na ift be pro¬vided, even a God in our nature; the guilt muft be im ¬puted to him, and the iniquity t'f us all muft be laid upon*him; and then a bloody tragedy muft be aCted upon hisfoul ahd body, till he fink to death tifider the weight ofinfinite wrath. But,2. Hence, fee what a wonderful perfon our Lord Je¬fus Chrift is, in whom fo many wonders meet together;It is in him, that Mercy and Truth, Kighteoufnels andPeace, do meet together, and kifs each other; here allthe bright perfections of the divin* nature do gloncuftyconfpire; here is the bright conftelladon of all the divideAttributes fiiining forth in him, and eveiy ftar performsits revolution in this orb. Behold in him the bright glo¬ry and excellency of God’s grace and love, a whole In-nity in concert, to perform each petfon, his own part, and, . < 4^ )eaeh Attribute its own work, arid Cbrift the. image ofthe invifible God fer /orth to be a gforir us theatre, onwhich men and argds might tee the fpiendour of thetranfaftion He is the hrightnefs of the 1 ather's glory*and the exprefs image of his pcrjon ; Here is .he g eacmy fiery ot Godunef., Godmanifthed m fhe flrfh, andall his Attributes meetiiig ogerhtrand killing each other,incur Immanuel God-man. rherr a'e t;vo.tnirrgs meetin Chriit, which ihould m-.ke him wonderful to us: i'heone is, all our fins meet together r n him, that thry maybe condemned, according to that word, ifa. hrj. 6. FheLord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all* or made themto meet on him ; tne other is, ail ihe Attributes o* Godmeet in him, that they maybe glorified: And indeedthere is no laving or latisfy;** knowledge ol any pro¬perty of God but what is to be had ir. Chrifl to feeGod to be a merciful, juft, true, righ:eous, good andholy God, is neither^ faving nor a fuisfytng light: uu-lefs we lee thefe Attributes meeting in Chrift for our fal-vation: and to fee this, is to fte the glory of God, in theface of Chrift. Here fee the glory of divine mercy!What is pardoning mercy? It is God’s fre-, gracious ac¬ceptance of a fmner, uprm fatista&ion made to his juf-tice in the blood ol Jefus. Nor is there any dilcoveryid meicy, but as relating to the fatisb.&ion or juftice,IconGftent with the gloiy of God : Mercy cannot be feenjfavingly, but as meeting with juftice in Chnft Herejalfo we fee the glory ot divine [’ruth, in the exadt ac-"om'pliihment of all his threatenings and promiles; thatiriginal threatening and commirarion whence all otherrhreatenings flow, Gen. ii. 17. inthsday thou eatrft there-f thou Jhalt furely die* backed with a ctirfe;/cr cur fed is•very one that continues not mail things, &c- is in hi n ac-.omplillied fully, and the truth ol God therein cleared toMir falvation, while he tailed death for us, and was madeji curie for us; fo that in every threatening histruth is madeJlonous; And as to the promifes, they are ail yea, andAmen in Chrift Jefus, to the glory of God by us, 2 Cor.2 20" Ancj of all the other Attributes of God, they areoade glorious and exalted in Chrift to our falvation.rlenccj when Chrift delired his Father to glorify hisF( 42 . Jname, Tohn xii. 28. to make his name, that is his nature,and properties, and perfeaions, all glorious m the workot redemption, that he had in hand; he was rnftamh an-fwered from heaven, 1 have both glorified it, and willglorify it again; l will give my Attributes their utmoftgl°Iy Htnc^'fee the difference betwixt the law and thecmnel- one great difference betwixt them lies in this,thit in the iai, the finner that hath violated the fame,may fee Truth (landing engaged againft him, but noMercy in company with (ruth; and R.ghteoufnefs inarms againft him, but no Peace m company with Kign-teouincls; Juftice without Mercy, and war without 1 eaceto the finner, is the motto ot the law : for therein ruthand Righteoufnefs meet together, but Mercy and 1 eaceam not at the meeting; and fo the language of the law,m vou that are out of Chrift, and under the law is, Nomercy, no peace, but the wrath of God, the vengeanceA cid the curfe of God upon you, and that fo fure asGod is’a God of Truth and Righteoufnefs; there is theUw • But in the gofpel, Mercy and PAce come into themeeting, and make up a match betwixt all the oppofite-hke pafties, to the higheft glory of God, and the gteatefthappinefs of the finner, and they feal the match with akifsPof infinite complacency; fo that the fum of the gos¬pel is this, Mercy and ^ithare met together, R'gb-Uoufncfs and Peace have hificd each other.\ JTHE[No. IV.]HARMONYOF THEDIVINE ATTRIBUTES.From PSALM Ixxxv. 10.Mercy and Truth are met together, Righ-teoufnefs and Peace have killed each other.TTE MCE we may fee what is the fountain-head, andfoundation of ail true communion and fellowflupw ith God and man. This glorious meeting is the foun¬dation of all other happy meetings : fejlowlhip with God,and an happy meeting with him, is a ftream that flowsfrom this fountain. We could never have met with God,or got a kindly kifs or embrace in the arms of his favourand love, if this divine meeting and embracemenr,~hadnot made way for it. FellovvQiip with man, or the com-munion of faints, is a rivulet that flows from this fprihg.When faints meet together for prayer or praifes underthe influence of the Spirit, and under a gale of heaven,when their hearts are fired with love to God, and to oneanother in him; What is this? It is juft a live coal caftin among them, from th.e altar, Chrift Jefus, where a’4the A.trributes of God meet together, and kifs each other;and hence true fellowfhip with God, and with the faints^are both declared to be in and through Chrift Jefus,i John i. 3. That -which we have heard and feen, declare■we unto you, that ye may have feliovjjhip -with us: Andtruly our felbwfbip is ayitb the Father a id -with his Son€hri/i. The harmony of the Attributes of God in Chrift,is the fountain of all the harmony among the faints: Thelittle harmony that takes piac: among them in our day,a.vJ the rarity of holy fellowthip meetings, flows from. < 44 > . .the little faith of this heavenly divine meeting : For allthe faints that are under the lively views'thereof, cannotbur defire to meet together, and embrace each other har-momoufly, in the arms of mutual love.j. -H' nee, fee the malignity of the fm of unbelief, thegreat employment whereof is,to fpoil t. e harmony ot thedivine perfe&ions; and to do its utmeff to difiblve thatglorious meeting, and feparate what God nath joined,iav.ng, in effecl, they have not met together, nor killed■each other. This we mav difeern in the unbelief whe¬ther of fecure or awakened fmners S -e it in the unbe-Jtef ot the fecure ftnner, who fets T'uth and Kighteouf-n-fi out ol the meeting, faying, God Is a merciful God,ar.d /foall have peace, though l walk in ihe imaginationdp my own heart, adding drunkennefs to thirft. Thus theyhope in God’s merev, and fpeak peace to thrmfelves,while they never view the Truth and Righteoufnefs ofGod, and bow the credit thereof fhall be faived, or thehonour thereof repaired: And hence, as faith is faid tojVt to the feal, that God is true, or that he is a God ofTruth, fo unbelief is faid to make God a liar, to fancythat God will have mercy on their fouls, without regaid-jng the truth of his threatenings, is to make God a liar,and fay, Mercy and truth have not met together ; to thinkthat God will be at peace with them, while his Righte-oufnefs and juftice are not fatisfied, is to make God aliar, and fay. Righteoufnefs and Peace have net met to¬gether. Thus the unbelief of the fecure finner puts Truthand R’ghteoufnefs out of the meeting.-—Again, on theo hernmd, tbe'unbelief of the awakened finner, putsmercy and peace out of the meeting, faying, O! He isa God of Truth, and how (hall he have mercy on thelike of me? He is a God of awful juftice and righteouf¬nefs, and how will he be at peace with me? What is thelanguage of this ? But that mercy and peace have notmet with tiuth and righteoufnefs; here is a making Gor^a liar alfo, and feparating what God hath in the gofpeldeclared to be joined. Behold then, the malignity of un¬belief, it breaks the glorious meeting, and will not letthem kifs one another. The prefuming finner will jiotlet God have the glory ol his truth and/ightcoufnefs.The defpamng fwncr w.ll not I«t God have the glorrb°th arC in 3 C0nce^ with thldevil to break the harmony of the meeting. But O ! mavvirtue come from that glorious meeting in Chrift, to thepoor finfui meeting in this houfe, for dan.inS your un!belief to piecefi, that we may fee JVfercy and Truth mettogether, Klghteoufnefs and Prac. kiffiig „ch X”"o. ticuce, fee fure and noble g-ound, for the KnlHnorr.»n confidence'of faith in Cbtift? /„n fs andaccejs with confidence by the faith of him, liphInd d-ffl rere ,S a" an^er to al the ob/aio„sof unbelief«.nd diffidence, the thief whereof lies here - O' favs upbti.ef, may I finful guilty f, grip to the protaffie ofSercvand peace in thegofpel? When 1 fee the great ordinanceof the divme threatening h3rd charged with the i rmhnd Kighteoufnefs of God, and ready to be difehargedWlth ^ • Jer and lightening, fa ng, NoMercy, no Peace -lie that made thee witlnotiavemer-cy upon thee; and there is no peace fays my God, to theZy e{d Mcrc\ and ^>eace in the promife, fhen fays un-b , pCa"'10t take P^ce, with refped to me- for VruthiZ R'«hteoufnefs in the threatening, ftand ’in the way{■f* aflamfng fword, to keep the way of the tree of lifj*Nay, bur fays faith,have met together, and kilTetf each other in Chrift Mer?ind" " P,r°m,,fe’ a”d j"ni" in Ihe threatening ha’vc meth"l1i n “U‘he p rami/it are reamd^ all the threateningt are fu/l, exe.euted hy drawing out his heart blood. 8 Thus then teahave baldnefi ,center into th, Uejt htbehkcdcfHeb. x l9 By a new and living way which he hathUS thrQll&h the Vdil of his flejh ; There-fof filth Wlth a trUe hcart in'ful1 “/“’trice/landing of the ^2t aEv^andT ^f°r Chrift ha,h fPoken withfLp Mr’ a^d,fPoken Jt our of breath; he hath left it^wardfL3 ATb^’ ^ \breathin* bf wr^h in itwhile believer may have a million of doubts,Th,k hl8 u»beliC( keeP® ‘be ebairj but 1« gallant faith• ( 46.J. .comfi in, nntl take the room, it will difpel thern all. .etonce unbelief break the harmony of this meeting of di¬vine Attributes in Chrift, and then nothing but doubts .ofCod'' favour and mercy.muft enfue; but let faith viewthe harmony, -mllee them meeting and kiflangeacbother;and then according to the meafure of faith, fuch will bethe meafure of holy boldnefs, confidence, and perfuafiouof the favour, mercy and good will of God in Uirift, withparticular application to the perfba himfelf. lake awayimblief from faith, and then not a fingle doubt wi.l re¬main behind : unbelief creates all the doubts that are mthe believ-f; his faith hath no part in them, i he generaldoubtfomt faith of the Tapl'ts, is not faith, but ambe.ief;and therefore no wonder that our fore-fathers aojured itin our national covenant. Rehold the jure g.oun a.ifirm bottom that faith ftandsupon, eventhe mutual meet¬ing and embracement, among ‘>e divine Perfections mChrift. If you break and feparate the meeting by uuoe-lief. then your confidence is broken, and your peace withGod marred; but if you keep them together in your view,bv faith in Chrift, then you have boldnefs, confidence andaffiance on this ground.;-yea, then God in Chnft, and youmeet together, and kifs each other. ....7. Hence, fee what is the beft mark of a bnieyer inChrift; for ycur trial and examination, try it juft by miwhat view h..ve you got of this glory of God, in the iaceof Tefus Ch'ift, and of the' Attributes of God meeting andembracing each otherfiu him ? Have you been the glory,and felt the virtue of this happy meeting?aen the'g!^I. Have you feen the'glory ot it ? when once in a day,■ySa had feen the Attributes of God in anus again t you,becaufe. of your finful rebellion agamft God: and whentou bad feen the truth of Cod, pronouncing the lentenceof the law, and his righrednfncfs and juftice ready to in-ilift the fentence, an?execute the fame withcurfes andvengeance, making you dcfpair of mercy, and giv. upwith all ‘-ope and expeaation of peace with God by ti.ela iv of works; Have you thereupon gota vuew of the har¬monious meeting of thefe Attributes of God, in cmi „Tefus, as the furety, theferriftce, the ranjom, tne-pro.pitiation, in whom the truth and veracity of Goa is a<:compliflied, and the ri^bteoufnffs and juftice of God fa-tisfied? and fo mercy-and peace venttvi gloriouflv, with¬out detriment to any other excellency or perfedion ofGod : Hath nothing fatisfied jcur confdence but theview of this meeting betwix- Mercy and jultlce in thedeath of Chrift, and kiffvrg each other in his mediation ?Hath God and you met togetiier this way, and made )ourheart joyfully to kifs and cm bract- this wonderful device,as worthy of God and fuitable to you? Have you feen thisglory at this rare? Then in God’s name, I pronounce you abeliever in Chrift : For Cod who commanded light toJhinecut of darknefs) hath jhaned into your heart, to give youthe light of the knowledge of his glory, in '.he face ofChrift ; and Chrift and you have met together, and kiltedeach other; whether it was'in the day of firft believing,when you fled- to him for refuge, or in the day of aftermanifeftation, when upon .he b?ck of dilmal biding onGod’s part, or grievous bad Aiding on your’s, the Lorddrew afide the vail, and gave you a glance of his glory;whether it was by fe me word of grace, ivveetly and power¬fully coming in, and opening your underllanding to fe£this harmonious meeting, or by fome fvveet droppings ofthe blood of fprinkling upon your confcience, by whichblood, the meeting is cemented together. Have you feenthis glory, whether in a fecret corner, or public ordi¬nance; whether at the market-crofs of the gofpel, wherethis glorious meeting is proclaimed, or at a communiontable, where it is fealed ? it is all a matter, it was heavenbegun.2. Have you felt the virtue, as well as feen the glory ofthisharmoniousmeetingofthedivine Atfributesin Chrift?2 Cor. iii. 18. Beholding as in a gifs the glory of the Lord]we are changed into the fame image frohi glory td glory, asby the Spirit of th Ltrd. Suiely if you have feen this glo¬ry, you have fek fomeringof this virtue, by changing youfrom glory to glory. It is true, many that have got a dif-covery of this glory of the Lord, can nevef think that theyhave felt the fanftifyingvirtue thereof, arid this keepsthemdown in the pit of difcouragenient; It is true, they thatare notfanflified and made holy, they difeover, that theynever beheld this glory of the Lord; for this meeting of1 ^ /Attributes makes a meeting of graces, in the perfon thatfees it favingly. But you mud remember, that this virtuewill never be perfectly felt, till this glorv be perfectly be¬held in heaven, where we (hall be like him, becaufe wefliall fee him as he is. And therefore fince you cannotjudge and try yourfelf by a perfect fandbfica'ion, try itby the beginnings of if; this transforming virtue, thisfanclifying virtue is prefent with you, though you cannotdifeern it. But that you may, thro’ grace, difeern fotr.e-thing of it, let me afk you what makes you wreftle in fe-cret-fotnetimes againft fin, if it be not fome lanflifyingv;rtue? What makes the prevalence of fin to humble youto the dud? What makes you lament your own unholi-nefs and impurity ? What makes you long and groan fos1'complete vicloiy over, and freedom from fin? Whatmakes you glad of any vidfery over your corruption, whenthis glory fhirtes? What makes your heatr to.rife againdfin ? and when fin prevails, what makes you find yourfelfuneafy, and out of your element, always till the Lord re¬turn, and until you geta new dipin the/orr/ariof thebloodof the Lamb? You have no mercy on your luds, and are atno peace with them, but dill crying vengeonce upon them!Why, it is jud the fan£tifying virtue, that flows from thisview of the glory of God in Chrid, in whom Me.cy andPeace meet with Truth and Kighteoufnefs If you falland dumble at any time believer, is it not like the dum-bling of a horfe, that makes you run the fader? fo as youget more good of one fall, than a natural man will get ofa hundred duties, while it m?kes you ay the more humbleand watchful, andcircumfpnT and dependent. Why, byall this, it appears (whatever be the defeat of your fantfi-fication) that having beheld the glory of God, you arechanged into the fame image from glory to glory; youhave feen the glory, and felt the virtue of this harmoni¬ous meeting of divine Attributes in Chrid. But thenagain ?8. Hence, we may fee ground of terror to all Chrid-lefs unblieving fouls that never have feen the glory, norfelt the virtue of this harmonious meeting, and live care-Itfs about either of thefe. What (hall I fay ? ^ our gofpelbe hld> it is hid to them that are loft; 2 Cor. iv. 3, 4.Whom thj CoJ of this world hath blinded the minds ofthem that believe not, lefi the li^ht of th glorious gof[>clcf Chrijl Jhould'Jbine in to them. May be, you ate pre-iLiiiwng upon the mercy of God, while your eyes areblinded, taa: you do not fee the truth oi his threatenin^sfhnding againlt you: And therefore, O blafchemer! doyou think, that he will be a God of mercy, and not a Godof truth r NTay, his mercy will nev r be vente^, unlefs theglory of his truth be fa!yed. May be you are fpeakingpeace to yourfelf, faying I fltall have peace, wnile yetyour eyes are blinded, that you do not fee how God’sbeing at peace with a finner is confident with his righte-ojfnefs, in taking vengeance upon fin O then b!af-phemer and prefumer, do you think, that God will be aGod of peace, and not a God of righteoufiiefs ? Kns v itthen, in the Lord’s name, O finful unbelieving wr--that as thrre ? po mercy for you, to rhe diferee;- 1 hod’struth; fo no psace to the d:(honour of his rig'i oofnefs.You expeft niercy arid peace feparate from truth andrighteoufnefs; and therefore, mercy and peace thall befrom you; and truth and r’ghteoufnefs will meet withyou in fury, and with a vengeance. Yourfalfe hope ofmercy and peace, makes you merciful to your lulls andat peace with your idols: But the truth and righteouf-nefs of God, which you exclude from the meeting, vvi'lhide mercy and peace for ever from your eyes : Jufliceinftead of mercy, war inflead of peace will ,^nfue ; fortruth and righteoufnefs will execut® judgment upon youfor the abufe of mercy and peace; while through unbe¬lief, you do not fee, or approve their meeting together,’and killing each other in Chrift. While you’re in this cafe,you cannot meet with God, tho’ you may meet with hispeople at ordinances, or at a communion-tab e ; yet Godand you never meet together: Nay, you have other com¬pany, the devil and you meet together; and your luffs andyou embrace each other; the world and you meet toge¬ther, and its vanities and you do feifs each other; the lawand you have met together, and its curfe and you doembrace each other. liut becaufe you do not fee the ter¬rible curfes and threatenings that you are under, re¬member, that in a fhort while, death and you will meettogether, and its cold arms and you muft embrace eac!\-?**-/Other; and If this gofpel be ftill hid to you, then afterth*, hell and you will meet together, and the flames ofdivine wrath and you will meet and you will embraceeach other to eternity; and the jnotto written upon thedoor of^'our hell, will be, The vengeance of Truth andRighteoufnefsy for the abufe of Mercy and Peace. Letthis word of terror fink into your confidence, O grace-lefs, Chriftlefs, unbelieving foul, that never faw the glorynor felt the virtue of this blefied meeting; and Callic-like, care for none of ihefc things. But on the other hand,9. Hence, from this doftrine, fee ground of comfortto all believers in ChriO;, who have feen the glory, andfelt th-e virtue of this harmonious meeting of divine At¬tributes in Chrift. This do&rine is as comfortable toyou, as it is terrible to others. Can you fay before God,that your two marks are your experience? Then I canfay, that all the comforts, that iffite from that gloriousmeeting in Chrift, belong to you; and God allows youftrong confolatioriy -who have fed for refugcy to the hopefet before you: For that city of refuge, to which you havefled, is the center of the meeting, and the tryfling place,where they kifs one another harmonioufly. Why, fayyou, what concern have I in their meeting and embrac¬ing each other? O believer, they met together for yourfake, and killed one another out of love to you, for therewas no real jarring among them ; but all the apparantjarring was about you and how they fbould all be glori¬fied in your falvation; and when infinite wifdom foundthe ranfom, and faw the way to all your eter¬nal happinefs: Then they hugged each other in theirarms, as it were in a rapture of joy, for your fake, Prov.viii. 21. His delight 'lucre -with the fans of men. It wasnot one Attribute only that had its delight, fatisfadicn,and glory, its delights in the plural number; For all theAttributes of God had their lights, and whereabout wasit? Why, the counfel of peace was concerning you: Forhis aelight -were -with the fons of men. And you havingfeen the glory of his device, and fedt fomething of thevirtue thereof: God and you have met together, and.Chrift and you have killed each other; he hath embraced30U, and have embraced him; and that embracement ispkdir* e.ud came ft, that he and you will meet toge&erin heaven, and embrace each other to eternity. Thismeeting and embracement is founded upon the har¬monious meeting and embracement of the divine at¬tributes in Chrilt: and therefore it fhall be fure, abid¬ing, and everlafling : and all thefe attributes are en¬gaged for your comfort and fupport, and this glory o£the Lord you (hall for ever behold : for Chrift in whomall thefe glorious perfettions meet together, hath prayedfor it, John xvii. 24. Fatbety 1 ujill that thefe whom thouhaft given me, &c. Here then believers, is ground o£comfort to you in every cafe. Comfort againft defer-tion. Is it long fmce Chrift and you met together,and kifi'ed each other. Behold here is the reafon : why.He will never altogether leave you nor forfake you;but certainly meet with you now and then, when hefees it fit; and give you the other kifs of his infinitelyblefled lips, and embraces of his arms: till you cometo the intimate and immediate embracements of bislove in glory. Why, becaufe mercy and truth are mettogether, righteoufnefs and peace have killed each other.So fare as mercy and truth are met together, as furelywill the Lo:d»meet with you. Here is comfort againfcthe law, when it comes in as a covenant upon yourconfcience, faying, Pay what thou oweft, or otherwifcthou art curfed and muft go to hell: and the law fpeak-ing in the name of truth and righteoufnefs, feems ter¬rible. But you may foon anf-ver by faith, and fay,0 /aw, the demand is juft indeed, and agreeable to truthand righteoufnefs have already met with mercy andpeace, in the perfon of Chrift my hu/band, who enduredall my hell, and became a curfe for vie : and therefore,1 have no ground to fear the hell thou threaten}, northe curfe thou denounces, nor any liablene/s thereto.Here is comfort againft church-divifions and commo¬tions ; when neither minifters nor private Chriftiansdo meet together ; or embrace one another with loveand an.i.y. Is this fad and afH.£ling to you? Here isa meeting that may give you comfort in that cafe; forno member of that meeting will ever differ amon"-themfclves, or caft out with you.—Here is comfor:againft your jarring with friends : What do I know, burthere are feme here, that cannot get lived in peaceG 2wifh fuch a frieniJ or relation; nor their Chiiftian li¬berty enjoyed, becaufe of their frowns, and, perhaps,phey are as aliens to you, not in fpeaking terms withyou ycu cannot meet together with them cordially,ncr embrace one another amicably: but let this be yourcomfoit, for in that cafe mercy and truth are met toge¬ther, righteoufnefs and peace have killed each other :and you have got a kifs by the by?, and that is betterthan ail the kindnefs of all the friends in the world.Here is comfort againft all the calamities that feem tobe approaching or perfonal trials, that may be com¬ing upon you. Here is a cordial, though affliction andyou meet together: though, in a little, death and youmeet together; yet this meeting of divine aitributes inChrilt cur glorious Head, fpeaks comfort and fafety toyou in every cafe, though you ihould die diftracted,this meeting cannot be dilTolved, and you having fee athe glory and felt the virtue thereof, fhall be fure totnjoy the benefit of it to eternity; yea, goodnefs and•mercy Jhall fellow you all the days of your Ife, and you'jhall dwell in the hoife of the Lord for ever.to. The laft inference is, Hence fee the duty of allthat hear and know the joyful found. Never was therea f.veeter found in heavfch or in earth. And what isthe duty of all you that hear it? finely the news offuch a glorious and harmonious meeting of the divinepetfi£bon about the falvation of finners in and byChiilt Jefus, Ihould be joyfully received. Here is theglad tidings of great joy to all people, Luke ii. ic,"When Elizabeth the mother of John, and Alary themother oi jefus our Lord met together, and ffllutcdeach other, the babe leapt in Elizabeth's womb for joy.Behold here is yet a more wonderful meeting and Mu¬tation among the jarring-like attributes and perfedhons,cf Gcd; and furely if the babe of grace he in yourwomb it will leap for joy, when you perceive fuch abkfled meeting'ana 1'alutation. O! may it bring oucbean to our mouth, and make us flutter within us, v. henwe hear fuefi a Mutation as this, Mercy and truth arenut together, <bc. What is your duty, believer, whonrr only heats hut knows this joyful found, your duty{■j act only to rejoic? in this matchlefs harmonious con*j junttian of divine attributes in ChriO ; but to exemplifythe fame by an harmonious conjunction of grace andholy virtues in you. Let mercy and truth meet toge¬ther as divine attributes in Chriif, be examplified bymercy and truth meeting together as divine virtues inyou : let righteoufnefs and peace killing each other inhim, be examplified by righteoufnefs and peace killingeach other in you. Let the meeting of mercy and truthengage you to be merciful and true : Merciful^ bec^iufjyAir heavenly Father is merciful; and true, becaule hedefires truth in the inward parts. Let the embracesot righreoufmfs and peace engage you to be righteousand peaceable, that is, to be ftudents of purity andpeace; For the iv'/dom that is from above, is firjl purethen peaceable, James iit. 17. It is declare in the verfefollowing our text, that is the defign of thefe perfections! pf God, looking down harmonioujly from heaven, to makefuitable graces fpring up from the earth : Truth (hallfpring out of the earth, ana rightcoufnejs foall lock downfrom heaven. — When the fun of Highteoulhefs, m whomall the excellencies of God do Ihine, looks down ; thenas the natural fun Ihedding its influence, makes Iruic(0 fpring up from the earth : fo rhe fun of Righteoufnefslooking down, and Ihedding abroad his iiiiluences, makesTruth and ail the reft of the fruirs of the Spirit to fpringout of the earth, out of the hearr, the foil where theyare fown in regeneration. O ! docs mercy lock downfrom heaven to you, in friendfhip with Truth ? flialinorthis Mercy make you merciful to the bodies and fnds| of others, by doing them all the temporal and fpiritualgood that you can ? And fhall God manifclt his Truthin conjunction with Mercy towaids you? and will yotj.not be a friend to Guth, even toa!l the n citrus Truths' of his gofpel ? Shall not 'Truth, in opp< It* n .0 hypo-crify be your ftuly, and Truth in eppof: ,\.n to error,be your concern ? ami this Truth i co*'.junction withL Mercy; for, when Truth is in any tuz-;d, ould noc■ Mercy to your own foul, and the fouls 01 ■ , makeyou zealous for it? And Mercy to you ■ m, andtpe generation that is to come after you, y. vhom we' fliow no Mercy, if Truth be net trarv. - purely tothem as it was by our forefathers to ;e expendllv. _or tneir blood, however now the waters of the fandhuaryare puddled. Again, does righteoufnefs and peacelook down from heaven, kindly embracing each otherin your behalf, believer: and fhall not you be fludentof Righteoufnefs, in oppofition to all unrighteous andunholy ways; and of peace, in oppofition to contentionand difeord ; as much as pajjible foilovj peace -withall mtnt and holtnrfs, rw,thoiit "which no man foallfee the Lord. Does God fpeak peace to you, andwill ye be at war with him, and love to live in war withany of his ? fli all that be the difpofition of any with whomGod i- at peace? 0 'tell it not ia Gath ! Surely thereare none here that have tailed of this fvveet peace ofGod but they would defire to live at peace with allmen, and particularly all the faints: they would defireto fee all the honeft minifters of Scotland meeting toge¬ther more kindly than they do, and embrace each other.Some indeed are at this time reproached as enemies topeace in the church; but the matter is, Peace muft notbe ftudied leparatcly fiom Righteoufnefs, nor mercy1'eparately from Truth; but all as meeting and em¬bracing one another: for mercy and peace withouttruth and righteoufnefs, is a cruel confnracy againllGod and man. Now certain things have palt concern¬ing the truths of God, and the righteoufhefs of ChrJiT,in our day, which fome think will Hand infamous tilldoomfday; and this truth and righteoufnefs being agreat minifterial trufl, force chufed rather to be reproach¬ed by the world as enemies to peace, than be challengedby God and their own ccnfciencc as betrayers of thetruft. However, O believer, lludy you, through grace,to get a match made up betwixt Mercy and Truth, Tigh-teoufnefs and Peace in you, feeing there can ke no mer¬ciful peace to the prejudice oi righteous Truth: andlludy to get all thefe Attributes of God examplihed iayour heart and life: and the feai and imprefs thereof uponyour fouls; you being united to Chriil, in whom allthefe glorious excellencies of God do meet together withharmonious embracements.—Out of Cbrift’s fulnefs doyou. receive^ and grace for grace : as the child receivesnaer^bys from the Father, and the paper letter fof letterthe prefs; fo, beholding his glory, be you c angeto the fame image, by receiving Mercy for ere;,ruth for Truth, Rightecufnefs for nghteoufnefs, andeace for Peace, out of his fulnefs do you receiv- gracei.r grace, holinefs for holinefs, and an holy virtue tun-t>le tu every holy perfe£lion that is in him •, an> a ; ti..armonioufly meeting together, and killing eac 0l” Ai you. Let n» heavenly grace or holy duty be excludedUt of the meeting. Let faith and repentance meet to-cther, let love and new obedience kits each other; e;nowledge and pra£Uce meet together, and prayer amiraifes embrace each other; yea, let oppofite-1; e gracesneet harmonioufly i:i you : let humility and °1 3meet together: let godly forrow and holy joy embrace;ach other. Here is the gofpel-holinefs we call you tom a fuitablenefs to thefe harmonious Attributes cl .^ouin Chrift: if the world call you Jntinomians, know uis the will of God, Ac. t Pet. ii. 15. Let the mouth thatreproacheth the gofpel, be Hopped by the power of it myour walk. The world will furely reckon you the great etcliars that give the greateft light: therefore let your lightro fhinc before men, that others feeing your good worxs,may glorify your Father which is in heaven, byjhewmgwotut of a pure confcience the works of mercy, truth, rig j~ieoujnefs, and peace, hand in hand tegethor;for the fake of the glory of God, the honour of Liinir,and the credit of the/gofpd, let the world know, thatyou have feen the glory and felt the virtue of the.e per¬fections of God, h'irrnonioufly meeting and embracingeach other in Chrift. Here is v<>ur duty and work, be¬liever in the wildcrnefs; and now in all your fhcrtcom-ings therein, Hill look again to Cod's holy temple, to Chriitthe meeting*place of thefe divine perfections: this is themercy-feat of which God fays, Excd. xxv. 21. 'There wil.1 meet with thee, and commune with thee from betweenthe cherubims : and every meeting with God there,will bring in new Hrengtli for all your wiik and war¬fare in time, till God and you meet together and ena-brace one another in glory through eternity.And now, believer, i know you would defire, I hatothers fhoukl fhare of the fame happiuefs with you, andtherefore, pray tbit a there cor.clading word may bebJni-d with power to thoufands that hear me. O yc;,that are hy-fiandcrs and hearers only, in whatever cor-rer of this houfe you be, round me, whether in my viewor not, you are in God’s view. I have a word from himto you ad, what a terrible thini; it is to live and dje nvunbelief with-refpea to this glorious device: may we kifsthe SON or GOD in whom all t- efe Attribute? of Goddo kifs and embrace each other, Pial. ii. i 2. Song i. a. La,him kifs me wtth the kiJT^s of his mouth, for his love ikbetter than uun-.—My heart fays, O let him come and.embrace me; and draw tne out of the embracements ofitiy former lovers and lofts, that i may never kifs anyidol in the world: but may live and die in the arms and'iweet embraces or the Son of God. Why then the cm*brarement betvfixr Cbrift and you is begun that flia!! ne-.'ver have an end, for it is a pledge that he and you {hair:meet together in heaven, and embrace each other tv et<?r- 'nitv O man, woman, lafs, lad, unconcerned foul,'be what you will, O yet will you come and fee this greattight; O come and fee the great eft fight that ever wasor will Be in heaven or earth,—bu/ls burning and notconfirmed';—all the burning and fhining Attributes ofGv)I) meeting together v^th infinite harmony in thebnfh of our nature, and yet the buffi able to bear theglory, Zecn iii. 1  0 come and wonder, here is thewonder of men and angels; for this is a wonderful meet"ing to them: and the name of the meeting-place is juftlycalled IVO A ARb UL /— His delights v:rre with thefons hof men! O come and firtg to the praife and glory of himwho caufed this harmonious embracernent of divine per-fedlions in Chrift Glory to God, that there is nobreaking of this meeting, nor parting of thefe embracesby fin, fatan, earth, or hell; but that they meet and e-.n*brace each-urther to eternity, and though you cannotmind to fmg all that hath been faid; yet 1 hope theweakeft memory may mind to fing the heft note of thisfermon every day, fty’ng, Glory to God that Mercy and \‘lruth have met together, Righteoufnejs and Peace havsh fid each other.THE END.