THECOMICAL ADVENTURESOF THE LATEMr. JAMES SPILLER, COMEDIAN;ATEPSOM in ENGLAND.A TRUE HUMOROUS TALE.TO WHICH 1$ ADDED,THE PLEASANT STORY OFOhad mhMousetrapWITH WITTICISMS, &X.True humour is a thing so hard,It merits ivisest mens' regard;And is so near ally’d to if it,That many have mistook it fer't.For tho' wit's e'er so entertaining,'Tis best with humour for its lining,Akont*.GREENOCK:Printeo by W. SCOTT.a w r.aiA.i 'ffikimmip rAift *. .»vt a ;3 i ■it iioMan -a ,*» . ato?a:rA w ?/ o r•iO 5iOT^ riH'i•iVOlL i\\r'\'^AO]f;jM a is I’rrr'/ .rrr.*.rh'.A oi V U ■ U VA''',iV',' 3. •.vtst'? ii Vt^K0 vA''^ttiuA tVt 'Vi\' A\V>:- A ViV,»ry.o:iA■ ———4None so dsaf as (hose who ntiU not hear.A true humourous Tale and Prorerb, ex¬emplified in the following merrf Storjof Mr. Ja ks Spilled Comedian, offacetious Memory.*AS the art of true humour a very difficultto attain, and very rarely n et with, 1 shallpresent my reader v*ith the h llof-'ing quotationon that subject from the Spectator. —Amongall kinds of writings, there are none in whichauthors are more apt to miscarry thin in worksof humour, as there is none in which they aremore ambitious to excel.It is not an imagination that teems with men-,sters ; an head that is filled with extravagantconceptions, which is capable oi filling the worldwith diversions in this nature; and yet, if welook into the productions of several \nitcrs,who set up for men of humour, what wild irre¬gular fancies,, what unnatural distortior\s ofthoughts do we meet with ? If they speak non-sense, they believe they are talking humour, and4The comical Adventures efwhen they have drawn together a scheme of in¬consistent idAs, they are not able to read it o-ver to themselves without laughing. Thesepoor gentlemen endeavour to gain, themselvesthe imputation of wits and humourists, by suchmonstrous conceptions as almost qualifies themfor Bedlam: not considering that humourshould alw ays be under the check of reason,and that it requires the direction of the nicestjudgment, by so much the more as it indulgesitself in the most boundless freedoms.There is a kind of nature to be observed Uthis sort of composition, as well as in all others,*nd a certain regularity of thought within, mustdiscover the writer to be a man of sense, at the♦1110 time that he appears altogether given upto caprice.For my part, when 1 read the delirious arirthof an unskilful author, 1 cannot be so barbarousas to divert myself with it; but am rather aptto pity the man that laughs at any thing hewrites It is indeed, much easier to describewhat is net humour, than what it is, and veryi&hcult to dsfme it a»y otherwise, than as Cow-ly has done vyix—by negatives.’ For a furtherdeunitiun of Uutncmr, and a beautiful compari¬son between tyue humour and false humour, Iwould recommend my readers to the remainingMr. Jtmt Sftiler, ComedUm* \B»art of the abore speculation, and shall proceed:o my story.In the summer season, Mr. Spiller was onelay riding to Epsom, and in the evening metwith an intimate aquaintance of his who vasreturning some three or four miles from that:own, where (but I know not-upon what occa-lion, except the races) it was so prodigiously full)f company, that he could get no accommoda-:ion for himself or his horse upon any account.After som* little ceremony had passed be-ween them, the gentleman asked Mr. Spilierwhere he was bound for ? Who answered him,:o Epsom.—What, says his freind, do you in-end to stay there all night ?—Yes Sir, repliedMr. Spiller, you may be sure of that.—Whyhen, returned the gentleman, 'if you do, youmust take beds with you, both for yaurself andlorse to*, except you are there provided forilready, or else you will find that you must dois I have done, that is to say, come back again:' have tried every place in the town, and theres not a bed to be got for love or money, as thefaying is.I’ll lay a wager, replied Mr. Spiller, that! get 1lodging both tor myself and my horse too, let.he town be ever so full; and that t*o, in one>f the best inns in the town,—Perhaps said the£ The comical Adventures of•gentleman, yeti may have one already there be¬spoke. No indeed Sir, replied Mr. Spiller,I have not, 1 can assure you, nor am I acquaint¬ed with any person that lives in the town to thebest of my knowledge.—Why then, said thegentleman. I’ll lay you a gallon of claret, thatyou don’t lie in the town to night, I mean in abed ; or get youi horse put into a stable there.— Done Sir, said Mr. Spiller, 111 lay you agallon of claret that I do : and that too, in oneof the best inns in the town : And if you willfavour me with your company, and return backwith me, you shall see yourself that I will.—No, no, replied the gentleman, I’ll take yourown word for it; and the first time we meet •in London, if we have time, well have our wa¬ger, and a bird to make us merry over the his¬tory of this nights adventure ;—with all myheart, replied Mr. Spiller : Which sign do youreckon is the best, for that shall be the place Imean to lodge at ?—After the gentleman hadSatisfied him in that point, they confirmed their.wager and so they parted.When Mr. Spiller came to the inn where hewas directed by his friend, he rides directly in¬to tiie yard, and calling aloud for the hostler,he found it quite taken up with other guests,and everv body in such hurry and contusion,hat no creature offered to attend him, or seetor any body that would.Mr. %am;s EpVJer Corr.edianifei ) ^; . t v I . I, t . k ' */.►< 'With that he alights from his Rosinante, andi:ads him directly into a stable, which was be-nre so full of horse*, that there was not roomor him possibly to lie down, but however,jhere he meets the hostler with whom he be-jfins his humour, in the manner following :—I Here, friend, take care of this horse, and do|rou hear, let him be well rubbed down.—Sir,mswered the hostler, you see that the stable*(ire already quite full; here is no room for himnor have I any place where there is any more.■—Well, well, said Spiller, you may do so thenf you please, rub him down well, and give himsome hay now, and about half an hour hence,give him a quarter of corn and some beans.Sir said the hostler again, I tell you, here is norpom for him, nor will I take any charge of him.——Ay, do, do, replied Mr. Spiller, if thouthinkest so, put some bran amongst his cornwith all my heart. Sir, said the hostler,(roaring as loud as ever he could, imaginingthat he was deaf) I tell you that I’ll not take a-ny charge of your horse ; and if you don’t takehim away with you, I’ll turn him out of thestable, and let him go to the devil if he will —Why, thou art an honest, sensible, good r.a-tur’d young fellow, replied Mr. Spiiler, and I’llleave it entirely to thee.; But be sure do not letmy horse be changed.—Curse your de 'i head /quoth the hostler j you may be d—.’d, and* The (omleal Adventures if*yp,1T horse too, I wish you were both in hellher.Plere M. Spiller took not the least notice ofwh** the hostler had said to him, but left thehorse with him in the stable, and goes himselfdiiectly into the house to get something toAnd the hostler reflectiug, that if the horseshould be lost, he might swear he left him inhis charge, and might, by that means, comeupon him for damages, he therefore tied himup to the manger, gave him some hay, andthen ran into the house, to acquaint his mis¬tress (for she was a widow') what sttange anddeaf sort of a fellow she had got to deal with.By this time, Mr. Spiiler was come intothe kitchen, and had just called for a pint ofred wine, but the good hostess being in a hurryanswered him, that she was very sorry that shehtd no place to ask him to sit down in. Whenhe, not willing to understand her, replied,—'ts all one to me, madam, if your red wine isnot good let me have a pint of white. Just ashe had made this contrary answer, in comesthe hostler, and as his mistress was endeavour¬ing to make Mr. Spillcr understand what she■{tad to say to him, the hostler cried out to her,—Ay, d—n his deaf head, madam, you mayMr. Jcimcs Spiilcr, Comedian. Uspend as much of your breath as you please totalk, to him, but he will never hear a word yousay : I have been plagued with him this hourin the stable about his d—n’d horse, and thorI roared out in his deaf ears as loud as ever Icould, till I had almost split my throat/I couldnot make him understand me one word, andthere’s his horse still in the stable, I dare notturn him out, for fear he should be lost, andtiic deaf son of a b—h should swear that I took,cherge of him.—Lord ! cried the hostess, I donot know how we shall get shut of him.—Trothmadam, answered the hostler, I fancy it will bebe§t to let him alone, and give him nothing thashe calls for to eat or drink, and perhaps thatmay soon tire him of being here.The hostler’s advice was thought very good,and therefore resolved on by his mistress, to beput in execution. So there stood poor Spillerfor some time, stareing about him, and couldneither get a seat to sit down, nor any thing todrink ; but by and by, observing the servantsto carry out of the kichen, a cover of smokinghot dishes, he immediatly follows them into aroom, where there . was about twenty gentle¬men going to supper. So, as soon as he caaicinto the room, he pulled otf his hat, and afterhanging it upon a peg, he stood there as muteas a fish. At length, one of the gentlemen ob¬serving him, and aleo that he was a stranger,10 Tht caariicsil Adventures•Jemandcu—■'Wlio does this gentleman want ?Bnt they'all fitjred at him for some time, hut,bo body claiming any kno-n iedge of him, Qn«.•fthem'said to him. Sir,’ ve are a select com¬pany, do you want any body, Fray r-——Noceremony with me, replied Mr. Spillcr, I beg.gentlemen, that you will net disturb yourselves‘Upon my account, I can sit any where. 2)—n the fellow ! says another of them, whatdess, he mean ? Turn him out of the room 1 —The servants being all busy at his first comingInto the ibcrh. placing the dishes on the table,jutting things to rights, had not observed■his v. :d in before; but now hearing thegeuikdispute, they ebon found the caus#eft, and tlicrcupdfi. said one of them,— Lord,gentiumm! y(:u will get no satisfaction bysweating and quarreling with him ; for he is-sodeaf, that you may fire a cannon at his ear, andhe will not hear you. Hq5 htjS been in the kitch--en this hour, but no bodv can make him un-dcraland a word that any body says to him.They have been ready to knock cut his brainstseveral times, but he never understood them inthe least; he is a poor simple'irone,c,r fellow ;I dare say, but what has brought him here, theLord knows i or how you will get him downagain, the Lord knows.—WiT, well cried oneof them, what doer, it signify ! ’Tis better to lethim stay here, now he is here ; he locks like11Mr. James Spiller,. Cemediau.an inoffensive gentleman, and as he is so deaf,we may be sure that he will not be offended atany thing that is said in company, hdr shouldwe get any great honour in throwing him downstairs.This speech met with so general an approba¬tion, that they all sat down to supper, and lettheir deaf visitant quietly partake with them,which we may say was another point gained.So after they had supped and had sat drinking-wine and punch, and other liquors for about thespace of an hour, Spiller got up, and with greatceremony thanked them all round for their verygood company, and then throws down his shil¬ling upon the table, for his shot. At which oneof them roared out as loud as he could bellow.—Z ds. Sir 1 What.do you mean by a shil¬ling ! A shilling will not do, nor two neither 1Six shillings a head will hardly, pay the reckon-lllo*Why now, grmlernen, replied Mr. Spiller, tdoes nop signify making a multitude of wordsfor upon my soul 1 will be my shilling, if youwere .to talk till to-morrow ; therefore no apo¬logies, gentlemen ; I scorn to spunge upon a-ny body.—Here, after some stir, they found itwas but in vain to talk with him, so theywere forced to. take the shilling, and be con¬tented.The comical Adventuresi*Some little time after, when Mr. Spilkr wasreturned to the kitchen, as his eyes were rolling,about, he espied one of the maids with a pan of■coals in her hand (at which he inwardly rejoic¬ed) so watching his opportunity, he slinks easilyafter her; quite unperceived by the girl; tillwhen ahe was warming the bed, he says to her,  What, is this the room that I ara to liein ?—At this unexpected demand, the poor girlin the utmost surprize to see him there, repliedto him, as loud as she could roar.—No, Sir);this bed is for two gentlemen who are just com¬ing into the room, and has been hired for themthis month. Very well, my dear, said Mr.Spiller, 1 like it very well, and I hopt ths shvCtSare well aired ; but where is my night-cap ?—At Hell, quoth the girl., for ought 1 know, andI wish you were there too ; for i am sure youare a worse plague than the Devil: But, d—nyour deal head ! I will have your neck brokedown stairs presently.iWith that away she flies, with the warming-pan in her hand, as fast as she could, to informher mistress and the two gentlemen, what befelher.—Madam, said she, vender is that cursedflunny man, that has plagued the whole- houseso-, has followed me slily up stairs in such aroom, where I was going to warm the bed forthe two gentlemen, and 1 cannot for my Ike gethim down again.ISMr. pames Spider, Comedian.So away flies her Alistress up stairs full drivc^ind the two gentlemen, who had bespoke the•oom along with her. But when they came todie door, to their great disapointment, theyfound it both locked and bolted ; and he hadalso drawn a. great chest of drawers against it,and placed a great wainscot table agatnet the(drawers, and several chairs upon them : Sothat the gentlemen, at this.baulk, were in a ter¬rible passion, and strove to burst the door opei:!But it bei»£ a thick oak door, and so stronglystayed within, it was too much for them to ac¬complish. So, after they had bounced againstlit half a doifcen of times to no purpose, they stoodto Mstcn ♦.icim.i I*.v-^uiu icarii uu«i ne wmabout; and Spiller at the same time rightlyguessed what their sudden silence w'as for, saysto himself (but loud enough for them to hearhim) the public inns are sometimes very danger¬ous places, and a man cannot be too secure inthem : but tho’ I have the misfortune to havelost my hearing, I think they cannot easily m iketheir way through that strong door and thatheavy chest of drawers, and all the other thingswhich I have put against them ; and if theyshould, they can want nothing but to rob andinirder me, I am sure.When they all heard tin’s, the hostess gravelysaid to the two gentleman.—Gentlemen! Doyou hear thh ; I am glad you did not force open14, lYhiiiry ii py^ _>i mThe csmlcal Ad-tentures efthd clodr, T^ith all my heart; for if you had wfe jrhigiif have been all^ruined. What could be i•ddne with such a man ?fOTt .IOC id ‘S'" H JM Ol ,1‘ -QO .?One of the gentlemen, being a practitioner ofthe law', answered the hostess thus,—by G—d,madam, you arc very much in the right of it;for though he has no right to the room he is in,yet, as this is a public inn, and he being in pos¬session of it, to break open a door upon him,Would be such an assault, as I should not carettv' be concerned in for a hundred pounds, Thisspeech of the «iwyerV36on determined the mat¬ter, for down they went very quietly, and left;Mr. Spiiicr secure enough in his lodgings.In the morning when Mr. Spiller came downhe very complaisently bid them all a goodmorrow7, and they, in return, all cursed himheartily for his good humour, and called hima thousand had names ; but he understandingnever a word that they sa/d, it was all given to-'^he wind.Here, he desired half a pint of. white-wine'made hot, with an egg beat up in it ior hisbreakfast, and then giving the hostler a shillingfor looking after his horse, and shilling to tie.U>ai4 for warming h,is. .bed, he mounted his ntg.Mr. Jan*! opilUr, C*media*. IS1he hoftcuy to give him a glass of brandy, whichihc^d : And' he drank to her very good healthrendering her his hearty thanks for her great ci¬vility. But whil.s..she .stood talking with him,for that short space, having ah occasion to breakwind, and not dreaming that he cpyild ;be at allinformed of the report, and recover his hearingso easily, she never stood upon ceremony, butlet fly at once, with the repbrt"oFaaemi-cannon.[At this vociferatipus salute. Spider ret.arii.ol,—(Well said, madam. By heaven that was * rout¬er, I h5pe madafn you are better, 1 never hearda more banging f—-t in my life.G—d curse Toii! cried the hostess, is thisyou that vas deaf all night, and can hear a f—tin the roorohsg ? Y ou scoundrel dog ! yourichly deserve your brains knocked out.—Hereher passion was so great, that she could notcontain herself; so while slip was lookingabout for something to throw at his head, bethrew her down the sixpence for his brandy,turned his horse, and, after repeating theseWords,—“ None, madam, ,,so deaf, as those“ who will not hear,”—- he rode out of theyard as fast as he could, leaving the .wholehouse in the greatest alarm imagiitablc.And he fairly won his wager, and maintainedhimself undiscovered to the '. cry last.THE PLEASANT STORY OFOB ADI AH MOUSETRAP.S^oth Hurfibras, the cause is clear—Js thou, hast proved by their practicerNt argument like matter of fact is >And vse are bsst of all led tsMens principles by what they d«.HuDvIt is most certain that mens’ actiomspeak their principles the plainest, andit is not what we say, but what we do,that wise men judge by; and thereforethe following story may be a proper les¬son for the unwary to take notice of,Ingratitude is certainly one of the worstsins that a man can be guilty of, and ina very special manner, when it is com¬mitted in a breach of trust, under theOladlah Metftelrap.17?on who gives them bread for life. Ifthen, I say, such a one should be foundbetraying his master’s trust, and yieldingup any right of hi*, for a sordid andpaltry bribe : if the person who had se¬duced him, should then fight him withhis own weapons, and trick him of hiscovenanted reward and unjust hire, asmy reader will find was the case in thefollowing story:Such a person, I say, if he shouldI break articles with him, and bilk him ofIbis upjust and criminal expectations, isi rather to be commended than the otherpitied. There is no creature upon theI face of the earth so guilty of this crime,j ingratitude, as mankind—even the mostI furious of wild beasts, arc civilized by|gratitude, and will not hurt their bene-1 factors and providers, lint man is daily4 giving up his father, mother, wife, chit-i dreu, friend, and his whole country, fort! a mere trifile.Let every man, thus guilty, put the,i question to himfelf, and then consider it18Obadiah Mousetrap.well, whether he thinks, (though he be calledto no account for it in this life) the cries andgroans of succeeding generations that lie underthe oppressions and distress, which he beforehid caused and brought upon them, will havero impression upon his final JUDGE, thatnay move him to reward and punish his trea¬sons ! That man who would sell his trust, Iam persuaded, would not bogle at any thingfor gain; that is, I mean, if he could conceivehimself secure from the power of the lav/; andtherefore the following proceedings of our goodfriend Obadiah Mousetrap, will, in my opinion,be the easier justified, or at least excused.Our friend Obadiah Mousetrap, who was aQuaker, and a commander of a trading vesselwas iust returned from a voyage, into the riverof London, when he had a couple of custom¬house officers, as is usual, immediately clapton board him : But it happened, th„.r two orthree days ait«r, the sly old fox had a mind tosound the depth of those worthy gentlemen'shonesty ; whether with any view to serve hisown interest, I shall leave my reader to judgeObadiah Mousetrap. 19I So one day, as he was walking upon thedeck with them, and talking of different thingshe says to one of them, (we’ll suppose himwhom he thought properest to begin with)fjaend, wilt thou go into my cabin, and drinka glass of rum ? 1 have a cask of that which isq*'te neat, if thou wilt come and taste it, andgive me thy opinion of it, 1 shall be obligedto thee. The officer complied, and theyeach of them drank a glass or two Of it; andwhich the officer very much praised. TheQuaker perceiving his spirits a little eleva ed,and believing him in a proper cue for his pur-:pose, pulled out of his pocket a green purse,with about sixty guineas in it says he, friend,as far as 1 can perceive of thee, thou appcarestto be a person of quick sight and good under¬standing ; therefore I shall have no occasion tomake a multitude of words, where I only wishto speak, and straight be understood.'1 hou seeSt this green nurse, and what itcontains; if thee and thy brother officer willgive me thy company for one half hour, onlyto drink a tvnvl of this nun, made into whatthey call punch, this purse and aii its contentsObadiah Moxsclrap.*0shall be thine, is soon as the bowl is out; $•consider as thou thinkcst proper : If Aotxorderest me to fill the bowl, I shall know whatthou meanest, and will not only immediatelyobey thee, but will also fully make good myword.The officer here gave him a node of under¬standing, and immediately communicated thisproposal t his trusty companion ; and aftersome private confabulation, they agreed to thecaptain’s proposal ; and the former of thesetwo, gave him, as he had hinted, a signal forthe bowl; which was compounded in a mixture.As soon as this was ordered, the (Quakergave his instructions to his mate accordingly,and a boat was presently hauled up close astern,and was put oft' again for shore, before thebowl was near consumed.Now our honest friend, Obadiah Mousetrap,being informed by his mate, and thoroughlysatisfied with what in this interval had beentransacted, produced the green purse, and de¬livered it to the parson to whom he had pro¬mised: Bat, O dire disappointment and con-ObaJiab Mousetrap.ision! Behold the uncertainty of this world,iste&d of real gold, in holiest weighty guineas,npostured brass filled up their room, in {ia:hyounters all. At sight and proof of this, howid the enrenomed tongues of the deceivedegin to rave ? Their eyes struck fire, andheir whole disappointed frames began to shakenth resentment.But our good friend, Obadiah Mousetrap,udng assisted by the spirit, soon found a wTayjp cool their intemperate passions, I perceire,i'ays he, my friends, that you have been de-lieived in me, as I hare been in you, and haveunderstood in earnest, what I meant in jest;; it reasonable to imagine, I appeal to youriwn reflection) that I could be so weak as toive you a purse of real gold for the goodervices of drinking up my property ? No, Ithink not, however, as you were both stran-ers to me, I had a mind to make a trial ofHour honesty.I know that you would think I had someilicit business to transact, worthy of givinguch a present, for an opportunity to do it in ;<2*2 Obudiab Mousetrap.but ye are both mistaken, I rever wronged mking nor my country m my life, I lock updyou both as persons that hath infamously iolcited the trust reposed in you, and are liaolof being severely punished for it ; which, hwas to be as cruel to you (by informing again;you) as you have been to me, by suspectinthat I would wrong the King of his due, tinmust unavoidably be the case ; bin I ocorsuch an action, though I despise your principles However, my friends, 1 would admonisn yoto be more honest, and more upon your guarfor the future, which will effectually cornpleamy good intention by this experiment,1 ' m tr. •%WITTICISMS, .&c.An Irish gentleman in company a few n’ Jfhts►ince, seeing that the lights were so dial as onlyto render the darkness visible, called out lustily,E‘ Here, waiter, let me have a couple of daycentcandles, just that I may see how these othersburn!’’In an Irish court. Counsellor Egan interroga¬ted a Dr. Fisher to the following effect:—Where was you born? A. 1 do not know.—Why dp you not know ? A. Because I do notremember it at all.—Ch Where do you believeyou was born ? A. At Augbestra, in Cuinber-jjand.—Ch Where do you live ? A. Here.—' What do you mean by here ? A. Upon this ta-cble in the Court of Exchequer. I can give yt>urno other answer upon oath, without perjury, forI certainly now live here.—Q. Where do youusually reside in Dublin ? A. In Castle-street,at the corner of Fishamble-street! After sometime pf question and answer, the learned coun¬sel, apparently angry, said, I am as good a scho¬lar as you—I know the Hebrew, the Chaldiac,the Arabic, and other Eastern languages, A_II am upon my oath, and you are not j and uponmy oath, according to your own account, I ne-1 ver before was in the presence of so learned al man.^4 Witticisms. &c.The late celebrated Lady Wallace, happenlnto be at an assembly in Edinburgh, a young genetleman. the son of his majesty's late printenwho had the patent for publishing bibles, mad;his appearance, dressed in geen and gold. Bern;a new face, and extremely elegant, he attractethe attention of the whole company- A generimurmur prevailed in the room, to learn whohwas : Lady Wallace instantly made answer, loirenough to be heard,—“ Oh! don’t you kno^him? it is young Bible bound in calf and gilt—but not letter’d.”The Earl of S a few years ago kept a::Irish footman, who perhaps was as expert rmaking bulls us the most learned of his ccitntry men. My lord having sent him one day widla present to a certain judge, the judge m retunsent his lordship half a dozen live partndg*with a letter; the partridges lluttering in thbasket, Teague opened the lid of it to quidthem, whereupon they all flew away. Onthe devil burn ye, said he, I am glad you argone : but when he came home, and his masttes read the epistle, “ O ho, said he I fmd iijthe letter there are six partridges.”---“ FaitiM(replied he) l am very glad your lordship h;v:found them in the letter, for they all lieu ouof the basket.”FINIS.