ADVENTURESBAMFYLDE MOORE CAREW,WHO WAS FOU KOBE THAN FORTY YEARSKING OF THE BEGGARS.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS..0 KJWtiSl i . }•»*. ( tlJ. WOSW. 'l-J.i >! •> : ; i' a 01 U : T/II .I'L■  ADVENTURESOFBAMFYLDE MOOBE CAREW.Mr, Bamfylde Moore Carew was the son o' aclergyman near Tiverton, in Devonshire, and bornI in 1693. He was tall and majestic, his limbsstrong and well proportioned, his features regular,and his countenance open and ingenious, bearingthe resemblance of a good-natured mind. At twelveyears old he was put to Tiverton school, where hesoon got a considerable knowledge of the Latin andGreek tongues, so as to be fitted for the University,that in due time he might be fitted for the church,for which his father designed him ; but here a new(! exercise engaged his attention, namely, that ofhunting, in which he soon made a prodigious pro¬gress. The Tiverton scholars had command of afine cry of hounds, which gave Carew a frequentopportunity of exercising his beloved employment,and getting acquainted with John Martin, ThomasColeman, and John Escott, young gentlemen of thebest rank and fortune. One day a farmer came tothe school and complained of a deer, with a collarround his neck, that he had seen running throughhis grounds, and had done him much damage, de¬siring them to hunt it down and kill it. They,wishing for no better sport, on the next day put theold farmer’s request into execution, in doing offhieh they did much damage to the neighbouring4grounds, whose owners, together with Colonel Nut-combe, to whom the deer belonged, came and com¬plained to the schoolmaster of the injuries they hadsuffered by his scholars: they were very severelyreprimanded, and hard threatened for the same.The resentment of the present reproof, and the fearof future chastisement, made them abscond fromthe school; and going into a brick alehouse, abouthalf a mile from Tiverton, there they accidental!*fell in company with some gypsies, who were thenfeasting and carousing. This company consistedof seventeen, who were met on purpose for festivityand jollity; which, by plenty of meat, fowl, flowingcups of beer, cider, &c., they seemed to enjoy totheir hearts’ content. In short, the freedom, mirth,and pleasure that appeared among them, invitedour youngsters to enlist into their company ; whichon communicating to the gypsies, they would notbelieve them, as thinking they jested ; but on tar¬rying with them all night, and continuing in thesahie mind next morning, they at length thoughtthem serious, and encouraged them; and, aftergoing through the requisite ceremonials, and admin¬istering to them the proper oath, they admittedthem into their number.The reader will no doubt wonder to hear of theceremonials and oaths among gypsies and beggars,but that will cease on being informed, that thesepeople are subject to a form of government andlaws peculiar to themselves, and pay due obedienceto one who is styled their king ; to which honourOarew in a short time arrived, after having by manyacts proved himself worthy of it. The substanceof them is this:—strong love and mutual regardfor each member in particular, and the whole com¬munity in general; which being taught them in5XSRtheir infancy, grows up with them, prevents oppres¬sion, frauds, and overreaching one another, whichis common among other people, and tends to thevery worst of evils. This happiness and temper ofmind so wrought on Carew, as to occasion thestrongest attachment to them for forty years, refus-Iing very large offers that had been made to him toquit their society.Being thus initiated into the ancient society of1i gypsies, who take their name from Egypt, a placewell known to abound in learning, and the inhabi¬tants of which country travel about from place toplace to communicate knowledge to mankind.—I Carew did not long continue in it before he wasI consulted in important matters; particularly MadamMusgrove, of Monkton, near Taunton, hearing ofhis fame, sent for him to consult him in an affairof difficulty. When he was come, she informedhim, that she suspected a large quantity of moneywas buried somewhere about her house, and if hewould acquaint her with the particular place, shewould handsomely reward him. Carew consultedthe secrets of his art on this occasion, and, after along study, he informed the lady, that under a(laurel tree in the garden lay the treasure she soughtfor; but that she must not seek it till such a dayand hour. The lady rewarded him with twenty| guineas ; but, whether. Carew mistook his calcula¬tion, or the lady mistook her lucky hour, we cannottell ; but truth obliges us to say, the lady havingdug below the root of the laurel tree, she could notfind the treasure.When he was further initiated, he was consultedin important matters and met with better success ;generally giving satisfaction by his wise and saga¬cious answers. In the mean time his parents—— ~ 8 * — — ——sorrowed after him, as one-that was no more, haringadvertised him in all the public papers, and sentmessengers after him to almost every part of thekingdom ; till about a year and a half afterwards,■when Carew, hearing of their grief, and being struck■with tenderness thereat, repaired to his father’shouse. He was so disguised they did not knowhim, but when they did their joy was beyond ex¬pressing, tenderly embracing him, bedewing hischeeks with tears and kisses; and all his friendsand neighbours shewed every demonstration of joyat his return. His parents did every thing to ren¬der home agreeable to him ; but the uncommonpleasure he had enjoyed in the community he hadleft, their simplicity, freedom, sincerity, mirth, andfrequent change of habitation, and the secret pre¬sages of the honour he has since arrived at, sickenedand palled all other diversions, and at last prevailedover his filial duty ; for one day without takingleave of his friends or parents, he went back tothem again, where he was heartily welcomed, bothto his own and their satisfaction, they being gladto regain one who was likely to become so useful amember of their community.Carew's first adventure in his new profession,Carew being again initiated among them, at thefirst general assembly of the gypsies, took the oathsof allegiance to their sovereign, by whom he wassoon sent out on a cruise against their enemies.Carew now set his wits to ■work how to succeed : soequipping himself with an old pair of trowsers, apiece of a jacket, just enough to cover his naked¬ness, stockings full of holes, and an old cap, heforgot both friends and family, and became nothing7more or less than an unfortunate shipwrecked sea¬man. In this, his first excursion, he gained muchcredit, artfully imitating passes and certificates that; were necessary for him to travel unmolested. Aftera month’s travel he happened to meet with his old| school-fellow Coleman, who had once left the gypsies’■ society, but for the same reason as himself, returnedto them again. Great was their joy at meeting, and| they agreed to travel some time together ; so en-i tering Exeter, they in one day raised a contribu-1 tion of several pounds.Having obtained all he could from this stratagem,he then became a plain, honest farmer, whostgrounds had been overflowed, and cattle drowned ;his dejected countenance and mournful tale, together( with a wife and seven helpless infants being par-ji takers of his misfortunes, gained him both pity andprofit.Having obtained a considerable booty by thesetwo stratagems, he returned to his companions,where he was received with great applause ; and,as a mark of their respect, seated him next theI king. He soon became a great man in the profes-I sion, and confined not himself from doing good toothers, when it did not infringe upon the commu-! nity of which he was a member.His next stratagem was to become a mad-man ;so stripping himself quite naked, he threw a blanketover him, and then he was, “ Poor mad Tom, whomthe foul fiend has led through fire and throughflame! through fire and whirlpool, over bog andquagmire; that hath laid knives under his pillow,and halters in his pew; set ratsbane for his porridge,and made him proud at heart to ride on a bay trot-ting-horse over four-inch bridges ; to curse his ownshadow for a traitor ; who eats the swimming-frog.S Ythe toad, the tadpole, the wall-newt, and the water-newt ; that in the fury of his heart, when the foulfiend rages, swallows the old rat and ditch dog;drinks the green mantle of the standing pool;And mice and rata, and such like gear,Have been Tom's food for seven long rear.0 do de, do de, do de! bless thee! from whirlwind,star-blasting, and taking! Do poor Tom somecharity, whom the foul fiend vexes.—There I couldhave him now—and there !—and there !—and hereagain !—and there !—Through the sharp hawthornblows the cold wind—Tom’s a cold!—who givesany thing to poor Tom?”In this character, with such-like expressions, heentered the houses of both small and great, claimingkindred to them, and committing all kinds of franticactions, such as beating himself, offering to eatcoals of fire, running against the wall, and tearingto pieces whatever garments were given to him tocover his nakedness ; by which means he raisedconsiderable contributions.He never was more happy than when he wasengaged in some adventure ; therefore he was alwaysvery diligent to enquire when any accident hap¬pened, especially fire, to which he would immediatelyrepair, and, getting information of the causes, names,trades, and circumstances of the unhappy sufferers,he would assume one of them, and burning somepart of his clothes, by way of demonstration, runto some place distant, pass for one of them, gaincredit, and get much profit. Under this characterhe had once the boldness to address a justice, whowas the terror and professed enemy to all the gyp¬sies, yet he so well managed the affair, that in a9long examination he made him believe he was anhonest miller, whose house, mill and substance hadbeen consumed by fire, occasioned by the negligenceof the apprentice ; and accordingly, got a bountifulsum for his relief, the justice not in the least sus¬pecting a defraud.He had such wonderful facility in every characterhe assumed, that he even deceived those who thoughtthemselves so well acquainted with him, that it wasimpossible for him to impose on them.Coming one day to ’Squire Portman’s house atBlandford, in the character of a rat-catcher, with ahair cap on his head, a buff girdle about his waist,a little box by his side, and a tame rat in his hand,he goes boldly up to the house, where he had beenwell known before, and meeting the ’squire, ParsonBryant, and one Mr. Pleydell, of Milbourn, andsome other gentlemen, he asked them if they hadany rats to kill. “ Do you understand the businesswell?” says the ’squire. “Yes, an please yourhonour,” replied Carew, “ I have been a rat-catcherfor many years, and have been employed in hisMajesty’s yards and ships.” “Well,” says the’squire, “go in and get some victuals, and afterdinner we will try your abilities.” He was accord¬ingly called into the parlour, where were a largecompany of gentlemen and ladies. “ Well, honestrat-catcher,” says the squire, “can you lay anyscheme to kill the rats without hurting my dogs ?”“ Yes, yes,” cries Carew, “ I can lay it where eventhe rats cannot climb to reach it.”—“ What coun¬tryman are you?”—“ A Devonshireman, an pleaseyour honour.” “ What is your name ?” Here ourhero began to perceive that he was discovered, bythe smilings and whisperings of several gentlemen,and he very composedly answered,—“ My name is10Bamfylde Moore Carew.” This occasioned muchmirth, and Mr. Pleydell expressed extraordinarypleasure. He had often wished to see him, butnever had.—“ Yes you have,” replied Carew, “ andgiven me a suit of clothes. Do you not remembermeeting a poor wretch one day at your stable door,with a stocking round his head, an old mantle overhis shoulders, without shirt, stockings, or scarceany shoes, who told you he was a poor unfortunateman, cast away upon the coast, with sixteen moreof the crew, who were all drowned ; you, believingthis story, generously relieved me with a guineaand a good suit of clothes.” “ I well remember it,”said Mr. Pleydell, “ but, on this discovery, it isimpossible to deceive me so again, come in whatevershape you will.” The company blamed him forthus boasting, and secretly prevailed upon Carewto put his art in practice to convince him of thefallacy thereof: to which he agreed, and in a fewdays after appointing the company present to be atMr. Pleydell’s house, he put the following schemeinto execution.lie shaved himself closely, and clothed himselfin an old woman's apparel, with a high-crownedhat, and a large dowdy under his chin; then takingthree children from among his fraternity, he tiedtwo on his back and one under his arm. Thusaccoutred, he comes to Mr, Pleydell’s door, andpinching one of the brats, set it a roaring; thisgave the alarm to the dogs, who came out with openmouths, so that the whole company was soonalarmed Out came the maid, saying, “Garryaway the children, good woman, they disturb theladies. “God bless their ladyships,” said Carew,“ I am the poor unfortunate grandmother of thesehelpless infants, whose mother and all they had11were burnt at the dreadful fire at Kirkton, andhope the good ladies, for Heaven’s sake, will bestowsomething on the poor famishing, starving infants.”In goes the maid with this affecting story to theladies, while Carew keeps pinching the childrento make them cry, and the maid soon returned withhalf-a-crown and some good broth, which he thank¬fully received, and went into the court-yard to sitdown to sup them, as perceiving the gentlemen werenot at home. He had not long been there beforethey came, when one of them accosted him thus:“ Where do you come from, old woman ?” “ FromKirkton, please your honours,” said he, “ wherethe poor unhappy mother of these helpless infantswas burnt in the flames, and all she had consumed.”“ There has been more money collected for Kirktonthan ever Kirkton was worth,” said the gentleman.However, they gave the supposed old grandmothera shilling, commiserating the hard case of her andher poor helpless infants, which he thankfullyreceived, pretending to go away ; but the gentlemenwere hardly got into the house, before their earswere suddenly saluted with a “ tantivy, tantivy,”and a “ halloo” to the dogs ; on which they turnedabout, supposing it to be some other sportsmen ;but seeing nobody, they imagined it to be Carew,in the disguise of the old Kirkton grandmother ; sobidding the servants fetch him back, he was broughtinto the parlour among them all, and confessedhimself to be the famous Mr. Bamfylde MooreCarew, to the astonishment and mirth of them all;who well rewarded him for the diversion he hadafforded them.In like manner he raised a contribution twicein one day of Mr. Jones, near Bristol. In themorning, with a sooty face, leather apron, a dejectedcountenance, and a. woollen cap, he was generouslyrelieved as an unfortunate blacksmith, whose all hadbeen consumed by fire. In the afternoon he ex¬changed his legs for crutches, and, with a dejectedcountenance, pale face, and every sign of pain, hebecame a disabled tinner, incapable of maintaininga wife and seven small children, by the damps andhardships he had suffered in the mines ; and sowell acted his part, that the tinner got as wellrelieved in the afternoon as the blacksmith in themorning.These successful stratagems gained him highapplause and honour in the community of gypsies.He soon became the favourite of their king, who■was very old and decrepid, and had always somehonourable mark of distinction assigned him attheir assemblies.Being one morning near the seat of his goodfriend Sir William Courtney, he was resolved topay him three visits that day. He therefore putson a parcel of rags, and goes to him with a piteous,mean, dismal countenance, and deplorable tale, andgot half-a-crown from him, telling him he had metwith great misfortunes at sea. At noon he puts ona leather apron scorched with fire, and with a de¬jected countenance goes to him again, and wasrelieved as an unfortunate shoemaker, who had beenburnt out of his house and all he had. In theafternoon he goes again in trimmed clothes, anddesiring admittance to Sir William, with a modestgrace and submissive eloquence, he repeats his mis ■fortunes, as the supercargo of a vessel which hadbeen cast away, and his whole effects lost.Sir William, seeing his genteel appearance andbehaviour, treated him with respect, and gave hima guinea at his departure. There were several13gentlemen at dinner with Sir William at that time,none of whom had any knowledge of him exceptthe Rev. Mr. Richards, wrho did not discover himtill he was gone; upon which a servant wasdespatched to desire him to come back, which hedid ; and when he entered the room they were verymerry with him and requested him to give anaccount how he got his fine clothes, and of hisstratagems, with the success of them. He askedSir William if he had not given half-a-crown inthe morning to a beggar, and about noon relieveda poor unfortunate shoemaker. “ I did,” said SirWilliam. “ Behold him before you,” said Carew,“ in this fine embroidered coat, as a broken mer-| chant. ” The company would not believe him ; so,to convince them, he re-assumed those characters! again, to their no small mirth and satisfaction.Carew made King of the B egg an.On the death of the king of the gypsies, namedClause Patch, our hero was a candidate to succeedj him, and exhibited to the electors a long list off bold and ingenious stratagems which he had exe-I cuted, and made so graceful and majestic an ap¬pearance in his person, that he had a considerablemajority of voices, though there were ten candidatesfor the same honour; on which he was declaredduly elected, and hailed by the whole assembly—King of the Gypsies. The public register of theiracts being immediately committed to his care, andhomage done him by all the assembly, the wholei concluded by rejoicings.Though Mr. Carew was now privileged, by thedignity of his office, from going on any cruise, andwas provided with every thing necessary, by thell14joint contribution of the community, yet he did notgive himself up to indolence. Our hero, though aking, was as active in his stratagems as ever, andready to encounter any difficulty which seemed topromise success.Mr. Carew being in the town of South Molton,in Devonshire, and having been ill-used by an officerthere, called the bellman, resolved on the following-stratagem, by way of revenge. It was at that timereported that a gentleman of the town, lately buried,walked nightly in the church-yard ; and as thebellman was obliged by his nightly duty to gothrough it just at the very hour of one, Mr. Carewrepaired thither a little before the time, and strip¬ping in his shirt, lay down upon the gentleman’sgrave. Soon after, hearing the bellman approach,he raised himself up with a solemn slowness, whichthe bellman beholding, by the glimmerings of themoon through a dark cloud, was terribly frightened,so took to his heels and ran away. In his frighthe looked behind him, and seeing the ghost followinghim, dropped his bell and ran the faster; whichCarew seized on as a trophy, and forbore anyfurther pursuit. The bellman did not stop till hereached home, where he obstinately affirmed he hadseen the gentleman’s ghost, who had taken awaythe bell, which greatly alarmed the whole town.Coming to the seat of ’Squire Rhodes, in Devon¬shire, and knowing he had lately married a Dorset-shiro lady, he thought proper to become a Dorset¬shire man of Lyme, the place of the lady’s nativity;and meeting the ’squire and his bride, he gave themto understand that he was lost in a vessel belongingto Lyme, Captain Courtney commander. The’squire and his lady gave him half-a-crown each, forcountry sake, and entertained him at their house.115: Our hero exercising his profession at Milbury,where the ’squire’s father lived, and to whom thesou was come on a visit, Mr. Carew made appli¬cation to him, and knocking at the door, on itsbeing opened, saw the young ’squire sitting alone,whom Mr. Rhodes interrupted by saying he wastwice in one day imposed on by that rogue Carew,of whose gang you may likely be: besides, I donot live here, but am a stranger. In the meantime comes the old ’squire, with a bottle of wine inhis hand, giving Carew a wink to let him under¬stand he knew him, and then very gravely enquiredi into the circumstances of his misfortunes, and also| of the affairs and inhabitants of Dartmouth, fromI whence he pretended to have sailed several times.1 of all which he gave a full and particular account:J whereupon the old ’squire gave him half-a-crown,f and the young one the same; on which Carew and: the old man burst into laughter, and discoveredI the whole affair, at which ’Squire Rhodes was a! little chagrined at being imposed on a third time ;| but on recollecting the expertness of the performer,| was well satisfied, and they spent the remainder of| the day in mirth and jollity.I At Bristol he dressed himself like a poor mecha¬nic, and then going out into the streets, acted thereligious madman, talking in a raving mannerabout Messrs. Whitfield and Wesley, as though hewas disordered in his mind by their preaching;calling in a furious manner, every stop, upon theVirgin Mary, Pontius Pilate, and Mary Magdalene,and acting every part of a man religiously mad.: Sometimes walking with his eyes fixed upon theground, and then on a sudden he would break out: in some passionate expressions about religion.This behaviour greatly excited the curiosity and1Gcompassion of the people ; some of them talked thim, but he answered every thing they said inwild and incoherent manner; and as compassio:is generally the forerunner of charity, he warelieved by most of them.Next morning he appeared in a morning gownstill acting the madman, and addressed himself tall the posts of the street, as if they were saintslifting up his hands and eyes to heaven, in a fervenbut distracted manner, and making use of so manextravagant gestures, that he astonished the who!city. Going through Castle Street, he met thRev. Mr. B e, whom he accosted with hiarms thrown round him, and insisted, in a ravin;manner, he should tell him who was the father othe morning star; which frightened the parson simuch, that he took to his heels and ran for itCarew running after him, till the parson was oblige<to take shelter in a house.Having well recruited his pocket by this stratagem, he left Bristol next day, and travelled toward;Bath, acting the madman all the way till he cam<to Bath : as soon as he came there, he enquimfor Dr. Coney’s, and being directed to his housefound two brother mendicants at the door. Afteithey had waited some time, the servant broughout each of them a halfpenny, for which his brotheimendicants were very thankful. But Carew gav<his halfpenny to one of them; then knocking aithe door, and the maid coming out again, “ Tel]your master” says he, “ I am not a halfpenny man.but that my name is Bamfylde Moore Carew, kingof the mendicantswhich being told, the doctoicame out with one of his daughters, and gave himsixpence and a mug of drink, for which he returnedthem thanks.17Mr. Carew happening to be in the city of Wellson a Sunday, was told the bishop was to preachthat morning: on which he slipped on a black; waistcoat and morning gown, and ran out to meetthe bishop as he was walking in procession, andaddressed himself to him as a poor unhappy man,i whose misfortunes had turned his brains; whichthe bishop hearing gave him half-a-crown.It was in Newcastle-upon-Tyne that he becamelenamoured with the daughter of Mr. G y, aneminent apothecary and surgeon there. This younglady had charms sufficient to captivate the heart ofany man susceptible of love ; and they made sofdeep an impression upon him, that they whollyeffaced every object which before had created any. desire in him, and never permitted any other toiraise them afterwards; for, wonderful to tell! wehave, after about thirty years’ enjoyment, seen himi lament her occasional absence almost with tears,Sind talk of her with all the fondness of one wholias been in love with her but three days. Ourliero tried all love’s persuasions with his fair onej n an honourable way ; and as his person was veryj mgaging, and his appearance genteel, he did not• pnd her greatly averse to his proposals. As her vas aware that his being of the community ofgypsies might prejudice her against him, withouti ixamination he passed with her for the mate of a:ollier’s vessel, in which he was supported by Cap-i; ain L n, in whose vessel they set sail; and the\ 'cry winds being willing to favour these happyi overs, they had an exceedingly quick passage to; Dartmouth, where they landed. In a few daysIiey set out for Bath, where they lawfully solem-ized their nuptials with great gaiety and splen-our ; and nobody at that time could conjecturej18who they were, which was the cause of much spec-alation and false surmises.Some time after this, he took his passage atFolkstone, in Kent, for Boulogne, in France, wherehe arrived safe, and proceeded to Paris, and othernoted cities of that kingdom. His habit was nowtolerably good, bis countenance grave, his behavioursober and decent—pretending to be a Roman Cath¬olic, who had left England, his native country, outof an ardent zeal for spending his days in the bosomof the Catholic church. This story readily gainedbelief: his zeal was universally applauded, andhandsome contributions made for him. But, at thetime he was so zealous a Roman Catholic, with alittle change of habit, he used to address thoseEnglish he heard of in any place, as a protestant,and shipwrecked seaman ; and bad the good fortuneto meet with an English physician at Paris, towhom he told this deplorable tale, who not onlyrelieved him very handsomely, but recommendedhim to that noble pattern of unexhausted benevo¬lence, Mrs. Horner, who was then on her travels,from whom he received ten guineas, and from someother company with her five more.It was about this time be became acquaintedwith the lion. Sir William W m, in the fol¬lowing manner:—Being at Watchett, in Somerset¬shire, near the ^gat of that gentlemen, he resolvedto pay him a visit. Putting on, therefore, u jacketand a pair of trousers, he made the best of his wayto Sir William’s seat, and luckily met Sir William,Lord Bolingbroke, aud several other gentlemen andclergy, with some commanders of vessels, walkingin the park. Carew approached Sir William witha great deal of seeming fearfulness and respect; andwith much modesty acquainted him he was a19Silverton man, that he was the son of one of histenants named Moore—had been to Newfoundland,and in his passage homeward, the vessel was runidown by a French ship in a fog, and only he andtwo more were saved ; but being put on board an.Irish vessel, were carried into Ireland, and fromthence landed at Watchett. Sir William hearingI this, asked him a great many questions concerningthe inhabitants of Silverton, who were most of themJiis own tenants, and of the principal gentlemen inthe neighbourhood; all whom Carew was wellacquainted with, and therefore gave satisfactory^answers. Sir William at last asked him, if he knewBickley, and if he knew the parson thereof? Carewreplied, that he knew him very well, and so indeedhe might, as it was no other than his own father!Sir William then enquired what family he had, andwhether he had not a son named Bamfylde, and:!what became of him. “ Your honour,” replied he,“ means the beggar and dog-stealer—I don’t know7» what has become of him, but it is a wonder if heiJis not hanged by this time.” “No, I hope not,”replied Sir William, “I should be glad, for hist family’s sake, to see him at my house.” Havingsatisfactorily answered many other questions, SirWilliam generously relieved him with a guinea,and Lord Bolingbroko followed his example ; theother gentlemen and clergy contributed accordingto their different ranks. Sir William then orderedhim to go to his house, and tell the butler to enter¬tain him, which he accordingly did, and set himselfdown with great comfort.Having heard that young Lord Clifford, his firstcousin, (who had just returned from his travelsabroad,) was at his seat at Callington, about fourmiles from Bridgewater, he resolved to pay him avisit. In his way thither resided parson C ,who being one whom nature had made up in anurry without a heart, Mr. Carew had never beenable'to obtain any thing of him, even under themost moving appearance of distress, but a smallcup of drink. Stopping now in his way, he foundthe parson was gone to Lord Clifford’s ; bnt beingsaluted at the door by a fine black spaniel, withalmost as much crustiness as he would have beenhad his master been at home, he thought himselfunder no stronger obligation of observing the strictlaws of honour, than the parson did of hospitality ;and therefore soon charmed the crossness of thespaniel, and made him follow him to Bridgewater.Having secured the spaniel, and passed the nightmerrily at Bridgewater, he set out the next morningfor Lord Clifford’s, and in his way called upon theparson again, who very crustily told him he hadlost his dog, and supposed some of his gang hadstolen him: to which Mr. Carew very calmly replied,What was he to his dog, or what was his dog tohim ? if he would make him drink it was well, forhe was very dry: at last with the use of muchrhetoric, he got a cup of small drink ; then, takingleave of him, he went to the Red-Lion, in the sameparish, where he staid some time. In the meantime, down ran the parson to my Lord Clifford’s, toacquaint him that Mr. Carew was in the parish,and to advise him to take care of his dogs ; so thatMr. Carew, coming down immediately after, founda servant with one dog in his arms, and anotherwith another: here one stood whistling and anothercalling, and both my lord and his brother wererunning about to seek after their favourites.Mr. Carew asked my lord what was the meaningof this hurry, and if his dogs were cripples, because2iho saw several carried in the servant's arms; adding,he hoped his lordship did not imagine he was cometo steal any of them. Upon which his lordshiptold him, that parson C had advised him to becareful, as he had lost his spaniel but the day before.“ It may be so,” replied he, “ the parson Icnows butlittle of me, or the laws of our community, if he is.ignorant that with us ingratitude is unknown, andthe property of our friends always sacred.” His'lordship, hearing this, entertained him very hand-Isomely, and both himself and his brother made himI a present.On his return home, he reflected how idly he hadspent tho prime of life; and recovering from asevere illness, he camo to a resolution of resigning|the Egyptian sceptre. The assembly finding himl! determined, reluctantly acquiesced, and he departed■iamidst the applause and sighs ofhis subjects.Our adventurer, finding the air of the town notrightly to agree with him, and the death of somejof his relations rendering his circumstances quite.(easy, he retired to the western parts, to a neat‘purchase he had made, and there he ended his days,beloved and esteemed by all; leaving his daughter(his wife dying some time before him) a genteelFortune ; who was married to a neighbouring younggentleman.ia22ANECDOTES.AN IRISH WAGER,Two natives of tho Emerald Isle, who wentravelling together, finding their means run shortand being in want of a “ dhrop of the craythur,'devised the ways and means for raising a supplyCatching a frog in a ditch, one of them went oiwith it in advance of his companion, and stoppingat the first public-house he came to, asked tinlandlord if he could tell what sort of an animal thawas ? “ What sort of an animal ?” exclaimed Boniface, “why, you booby, it’s a frog, to be sure.’“Booby here, booby there,” said Pat, “it strikeme you’re mistaken, for as ’cute as you think yourself, I’ll bet you the price of a pint of whisky it’s ;mouse ; and I’ll lave it to the first traveller thacomes up to decide between us.” “ Agreed,” sailthe landlord. Pat’s confederate came up; ambeing required to say what sort of an animal it wasafter much examination and deliberation, declarecit to be a mouse ; and thus the landlord, in spitof the evidence of his senses, had to pay the wagerA SAD MISTAKE.A farm servant in Stratheam having intimate*to Iiis master that it was his intention “ to tabunto himself a wife,” and being rather a bit of sfavourite, was ordered to take a greybeard and g<to Perth for a gallon of whisky, for the purpose oadding to the hilarity of the occasion. The lacwillinsdv did as ordered; and when the marriage<023company were about starting to meet the brido,stalked majestically into the middle of the room,with glass in hand, and the greybeard under hisarm, and filling a bumper, handed it to the nearestperson, -who hurriedly swallowed it, but instantlyshaking his head, gravely remarked, that it was“ shurely some o’ the new-fangled mixture graith.”Being in too great haste to give the observationthat attention it merited, the second was instantlyfilled and tasted ; but how aghast did the companylook when the recipient roared out in a voice ofhorror, “L—d, Jock, that’s uily!” And“uily”it was. The bridegroom, on going to St. Johnston,had taken the wrong jar, and having requested theshopman to “fillthat wi’ the auld thing," the waryfunctionary, to catch the plain meaning, smelledthe jar, and implemented the order accordingly.Although the mistake was felt severely at the time,we are happy to say that a good horse speedily borethe needful from a neighbouring public-house, andeverything afterwards went on with a spirit which,instead of being damped, appeared to have beenaugmented by the mischance.SCOTCH ANECDOTE.An anxious Scotch mother was taking leave ofher son on his departure for England, and givinghim all good advice. “ My dear Sauny, my ainlyson, gang south and get all the siller from thesoutherns, take every thing you can, but the Englishare a braw boxing people, and take care of themSauny. My dear son Sauny, never fight a baldman, for you cannot catch hold of him by the hairof his head. ”24AMERICAN WIT. '“ Master, if that house cost five hundred dollars,and a barrel of nails five dollars, what would a goodsizeable pig come to ? Do you give it up ? Well,he’d come to a bushel of corn.’A BRIGHT IDEA.“"What is light?” asked a school-master of thebooby of the class. “ A sovereign that is’nt fullweight is lightram.T».r,;I sdjjI'“A