West-Port Murders!A Full and Correct Account of theTRIAL JOF WIIilalAM BUHKE,ANDHELEN MfiDOUGAI>5BEFORE THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICIARY,On Wednesday the 24th Dec. 1828, for the wilful Murder ofMarv Campbell or Dochcrty, with the felonious intent of sell¬ing her body to a Surgeon, as a subject for Dissection,AND OF THESENTENCE, CONFESSION,ANDEXECUTIONOF BURKE.FALKIRK:PRINTED BY T. JOHNSTON.HOIvrisniJogT/j biu■inlu^oi'. anil rmWest-Fort Murders.TRIAL OF WILLIAM BURKEAND HELEN M‘DOXJGAL.() trial in the memory of any man now living ever1 excited so deep, universal, and appalling an inter¬est as that of William Burke and his female associate,which took place on Wednesday, Dec. 24, 182fi. Bythe statements which had from time to time appeared inthe newspapers, public feeling had been worked up tothe highest pitch of excitement, and the case, in so faras the miserable panneis were concerned, prejudiced bythe natural abhorrence which the account of a new andunparalleled crime was calculated to excite. This is anevil inseperable from the freedom, activity, and enter¬prise of the press, which was necessarily compelled tolay hold of the events of the passing hour, more especiallywhen these are of an extraordinary or unprecedentedkind ; but it was more than atoned for by many counter¬vailing advantages of the greatest moment to the inter¬ests of the community: and we are moreover satisfiedthat any prejudice or possession thus created, was anxi-4ously and effectually excluded from the minds of those!*y whom this singular case was tried, and that they wereswayed by no consideration except a stern regard to thesanction of their oaths, and purity of justice, and the im¬port of the evidence laid before them. '1 hese arc withoutany precedent in the records of our criminal practice,and, in fact, amount to the realization of a nursery tale.The recent deplorable increase of crime, lias made u»familiar with several new atrocities, and murder liasgrown so common that it has almost ceased to be viewedwith that instinctive and inexpressible dread which thecommission of the greatest crime against the laws, oftied and society, used to excite. But this is the'frvstinstance of murdhr perpetrated with the aforethoughtpurpose of Selling the murdered body as a subject fordissection to anatomists : It is a new species of murderf.f hire, and was certainly calculated to make a deepimpression on the public mind, and to awake feelings ofstrong and appalling interest in the issue of the trial..So early as seven o’clot k, a great crou d had assembledat th®: doors of the court, which eiicreascd during theday, while the utmost order was maintained by a strongbody of police, and two regiments of military, &c.About ten o’clock, the prisoners were placed at theb$r. Burke is a native of Ireland. He is rather belowthe middle size, hut stoutly made, and of a determined,though not peculiarly sinister expression of counten¬ance. His features are round, with high cheek hones,grey eyes, a.good deal sunk in the head, a short snobbishppse, and a round chin, hut altogether of a slnall'cast:his hair and whiskers, which are of a light s&r*dy colour,comported well with the make of the head and the com¬plexion, which is nearly of the ^ame hue. He was dres¬sed in a shabby blue suriout, buttoned close to thethroat, and had, upon the whole, what is called in thiscountry a vMuy;h rather than a ferocious appearance,though there is a hardness about the features,’ mixed: anj cxpres.s'or 'n ihe UvinkEng^ye?, ?t:r froJ«inyit'is^ . Thiv'ietnale prisoner is fuTty o'* the ifti^flle size,tie' irv a i e pnsoner is runy .bpt. tliiif and spare made, thoygh eyidehtly of largd bene.Fder ."featiives are long, ami the upper half of her face is ’«ut of prqpppTion to the JnVver. She 'wap miserably dres¬sed, in a spialf grt vr'colOured velvet bonnet, very riutcbtn? wbi^e for the wear, a printed cpfton shawl and cot-1• t.1 l^L - i,' • » ..ii l j -i.  ll,,,,.• icaity arid hasttoil gown, flhe stoops eoiydderabfy in her pncthiEfe jWs’cjthar in her ap-pearance, except the ordinaryIdoL ofcxti'enie pcverty and uiifery Comihdri to unfoYKi-strepjdatron,very closely to the prdeeecfih^s'Whlch s66h were com-'" r.oih -I , .• ,. v,:i p;iwindictment was ryad'tlisfeFiQrvs :—“ \Viliiani‘Burke hod flelthf M‘I>ougfil, yod-are in¬dicted aritf acctisdd dt th^instance of Sir W. RaepBart.,hisTdaje^t^s'Adv'deate/'Of thfe crime of murder : insofar'as between the 7tli and Itirh days of April,1 183$, and1within the house of Criirsthntiu'eBurke, scavenger, Gibb’sClose, Chndhgatfe, Rdidbdrgjh; You the said WllharniVtirkc did wickedly and felpWodsly place your body orpart thereof, upon the breast1 or person and face;of fllaryPaterson, fesfding irrLeith-street. 'Edinburgh, when'shewas in a state of intoxication, & did by the pressure thereoff and liy dovering her mouth and'noSe, forcibly Compresshe’r throat with, your hadds, and'forcibly keeping herdown, ripfwithstand'i'ng hter resistance, strffocate andsfrihl^le her ; and this yoti did with the wicked inten¬tion of selling her body when so murdered, as a subjectfor dissection. And also between the 5th and 26th dayof October, 1828, within the house Of William Hare,labourer, Portsburgh, you the said William Burke, didassa-uit and attack James Wilson, Commonly called DaftJamie, and did leap or throw yourself upon him-whanyingih the said house, andhe’ having sprung up, you did6struggle with him, and did bring him to the g.iound,w’he«; by compressing his mouth, nose, anti throat, you did suf¬focate or strangle liim, notwithstanding of every resis-f ence on his part. And this you did with the wickedintention of sefiing his murdered body to the docters fordissection: And. Farther, on Friday the 31st day ofOctober 1828, and within your own house in Portsburgliyou did both and each of you wickedly murder MargeryM‘Gonegal or Docherty, when she was lying on theground, and did in the manner above-recited, suffocateor strangle her, with the wicked intention of selling her' body when so murdered, as a subject for dissection ; allwhich or part thereof being found proven by the verdictof an assize, you and each of you ought to be punished- with the pains of law, to deter others for committing>>uch crime in all times coming.”The defences for Burke and M'Dougal were the»read, and objections stated to the, form of the indictment,but the Court ultimately overulled them, and ordainedthe public prosecutor to go to trial upon the three char¬ges separately. His Lordship then stated his determin¬ation to proceed with the lost charge, viz. for the mur¬der of the woman Campbell or Docherty, which appliedequally to both prisoners, and the trial proceeded accor¬dingly, and the jury were hnpanneled. Both prisoner*| pleaded Not Guilt)/.Ann Black lives in Waster Portshurgh. Her house| is one room. Goes down a stair to it. At the foot ofj the stair there is a passage. Her house is on the right-I is going in, ami is the tirst door. There is another doorI on the same side of the passage a little farther in, and itj leads ihto another passage, at the end of which there isanother room. In the last week of October last, Burke! and hjs wife occupied that room. Knows Hare and hiswife. There was a man named Grey, and his wife.stop¬ped there a few days with Burke in the last week ofOctober; saw Burke pass with a woman on the 31stof7October, about one or two o’clock. They were goinginto Burke's. Was there in the afternoon, and saw th«stranger woman sitting at the fire, and she was takingporridge and milk at the time. She had a napkin i»place of a mutch on. but does not know if she had anything else but her shift on. Asked M'Dougal if theyliad got a stranger, who said yes, it was a Highland wo¬man, and a friend of her husband’s. M‘Dougal shortlyafter left the house. The stranger woman, who w'as atittle intoxicated, said she was going to St Mary’s Wynd,to see a boy who promised to get some word to her a-bout her son, whom she was seeking, but did not go, aswitness said she would not find her way back. She saidBurke, whom she persisted in calling Docherty, had pro-naised her supper and bed, as she had no money. Hareand his wife then came in with some whisky, which iheydrank, the stranger getting some also. Hare and therest were dancing, and the whole party about ten oreleven o’clock, when Burke returned, followed him intohis house. The w'dman seemed quite well. Witnessdid not sleep any in consequence of a disturbance whichcommenced shortly after, as if Burke and Hare werefighting. Rose next morning at eight, and w-ent toBurke’s, and found him, Mrs Law, M'Dougal, anda person named Broggan. Burke had a bottle of spirits,and gave her a glass. He then threw' the spirits up»o the roof of the house, and upon a bed at his back.sked M'Dougal w hat had become of the old woman,to which she answered, that Burke and her were toofriendly together, and she had kicked her out of thehouse. Burke asked her if she had heard Hare andhim fighting, and remarked they were friends now.saw straw lying Under the bed. Heard a report ofmurder, and Burke was apprehended by the police justafter that.Cross-examined.—Before he was apprehended, Burkesaid he would go and seek the man wrho had accused8iaii; and he met the man in the passage along withthe police-men. They took him into his own house.the Corn-;—^Witness's husband had told Burketjwl ((h’^' ^i'd ho ,lmd. seen 'a corpse in his house, apd.I^uiSfe-pajd hi;,yvouid; go and seek pray..-o$.T ia dbirynifm—^he.was • alarmed, on going ii^o^rWrf.s>f:bgeai»(},;she had heard tpl of a murder. ItVonseqcicacp of what Mre; Gray had told her.tt ,^W Jsf¥*T hvptl in thy saiye passage with prisonersin Oe4oJ>er last. Was in Cqriwiiy's. hopsp on-the 31stOct^har,.about two o’clock afternoon. Saw Burke inthe passage, and a littlo woman following him. Theyvrem mfc, Burk's. Saw Hare and iiiy wife there in theeveni-'g betwixt six and seven. The little woman wasthere also.. Witness was not ih.w long at that ti^ye,.Wfn^.to hed;'abouthaU'pgs.t nine, Ileard noise durmg% ‘di^dvof lighting apd scuffling.—There,.was a great..ti Was only sensible of iuirke's voice gmong thert-'T Tlse noise lasted so:ue time. Next morningt'J.'s Burke, the prisoner, came in fa; a pair o| beliows,and j,ts,k.ed if witness had beard Burlte and Hare fight-ingin. the night time. Witness ashed what she l^'-ddone with tlie little woman in the time of the lig'.uhg.She said she bad kicked her to the door, because suehad been using t,po much freedom with tVibliam, (nieaiwir.g Burke.) Mrs Burke came back to her house abouti me o clock. It was about eight o’clock when sire wasthere first. She borrowed a dram glass, and asked wit¬ness to come into her house. She went,, and foundHare arid Burke there, also jVt'Dou^ql, aridfl, man nain-e:l Brogan, -j grid his wife, and Mrs Coiuuiwayjcame in afterwards—before witness left. Burke took abottle and some spirits, and sprinkled tliein on the roofdf the house, arid about tlie bed, and said it was becausenone of them would drink it. There was a good deal ofstraw about the foot of the bed. This was on the Satur¬day morning, 'arid Burke was apprehended that night.9Was shown a dead body in thePolice Office on the Sun¬day, which she knew to be that of the little woman shesaw in Burke's on Friday night-Cross-examined.—The straw lias been used for seme-time for Grey and his wife.Hugh Alston, Grocer, West-port, lives in the sameland which Burke’s house is, first Hat above the shops-—Burke lived, in the flat below the shops. Recollects, onthe night of the 31st October, between 11 and 12 o’clockof hearing a noise in Burke’s houxe. Was then on thepassage on a level with the street. It seemed as if twomen were quarreling; but what particularly took hisCitteiitiqq was the cries of a woman of “ murder. ’ Wentdown, tp Burke’s house. Went near to Conways door,and listened, and heard two men tuning a noise as ifquarreling, qnd the woman crying murder ; but not in atone tliat he would have considered her as in imminentdanger. That continued about a minute, the femalecalling out'; jnurder in a strong voice. There werethen ^wp. qr ^tree crje#; something like as if a person orap animal had been strangling. Could not say hehpard Wows, or any noise upon the floor. After thesestrange: nois^ subsided, heard the same female vpicethat,called, murder, call qvit.for the po)ice, and she ap-Jie#rpd at the same time as if striking upon the door.Went immediately in search of a policeipan, but did notget one. Returned to Bark’s stair, an^ beard the menspeaking, but now lower, and the cry ef murder hadceaied. Witness then went away. Did not perceiveany thing like a noise of struggling on the floor. Hewas not over three or four yards from Burke’s passagedoor, when listening. The door of the room is someyards %ther in. It appeared to be on the outer, clporthat the woman ^ruck with her hand. Heard on Sa¬turday evening thqt the b°dy had been found, whichfixed his recollection on what he has mentioned.Crosri-examined.T—On)y went to the street to look10for a policeman. When he returned, he did not consi¬der it necessary to interfere farther. The voice thatcalled “ murder,” was quite different from the one thatuttered the stranffe sounds.lie-examined.—The last cry was fcJr the police, andthat “ there was murder here.”By the Court.—Heard both voices distinctly at thesame timeBy Jury.—Have no doubt the cries of “murder” pro-caeladfrVn urke's house.David Paterson, Keeper of Dr. Knox’s museum, livesin 26, West-port. Knows Burke by sight. Went homeabout 12 on Friday the 31st on October. Found gurkeat hiv door, knocking, who said he wished to see witnessat his house. Wbht with him, and found men and wo¬men there. Saw two men, one besides Burke; butthere1 might be more. Saw two women there. Burketold witness that he had procured something for theDoctors, pointing to a corner, either at the head or thetoot of the bed, where there was some straw. The o-ther persons might have heard it ; he does not know.Burke spoke in an under voice, but not in a whisper.—There was no observation made by any of the otherpersons. Nothing was shown to witness at that time.Understood urke meant a dead body, but saw none.His words were that he had procured something, orthat there was something for the Doctor, to-morrow.A''bedy might have been concealed under the straw.iVFDotogrtl, at the bar, was one of the women. Hareand his wife are the other persons that were in Burke's.Had no conversation with Burke that night. Nextmorning sent his sister for Burke, who came aboutnine o’clock, alone. Witness then told him if he hadany thing to give to Dr. Knox, to take it to himselfpersonally. He meant if he had any subject for theDoctor. — Burke promised to do it, and went away.He saw Bsrke and Hare on Saturday forenoon, stand-11ing in one of Dr. Knox’s rooms, in Surgeon's StjuaMf.along with Dr, Jones, one of Dr. K’s assistants. Thiswas between twelve and two. Either Burke or Haretold Dr K. that they had a dead body, which theywould deliver there last night* and he was ordered byDr K. to be in the way, and receive any packagethey might bring. Witness was at the proper placeabout seven o’clock, when Burke and Hare and a por¬ter came with a package. Has seen the porter to-day.It was an old tea-box they brought, such as the onebow shown him. They carried it to a cellar; Mr Joneswas present, and after it was locked into a cellar, wentto Newington, and told Dr. Knox that it had beenbrought. Burke, Hare, and the porter, had either gonebefore or followed. When witness came out of theDr’s house, he found them there. Dr. Knox gave wit¬ness five pounds to give them, with orders to divideit between them; and in order to do so, witness tookthem to a public house, got change, and divided themoney, when each took his share, and gave somethingto the porter. It was understood they were to returnon Monday, by winch Dr. K. would have seen the sub¬ject, and they would get the remainder of the price,which witness believes is generally eight pounds. Sawno women along with the men at that time, nor after¬wards. Next morning, Lieut. Paterson and Sergeant ,Fisher called on him, and went with him to the cellar,and gave them to package just as it had been received.It was then opened, and found to contain the body ofan elderly female, fresh, and apparently never interredHie body was doubled up in the box—all the; extripmities doubled on the chest or thorax; and the headlwas pressed down on the breast, seemingly for want o'Iroom. Examined the body externally stretched upon Ia table. The face had a very livid colour, and blo.oc;|flowing from the mouth. Appearance indicated stran Igulation, or suffocation from pressure. Found no e* Iternal marks on the body which could have causeddeath. Her eyes w ere not projected np,r her tongueHanging out, nor were there '^hy marks about the neck,but the. lips were soiled with blood. Knox had deal¬ings with both Burke and Hare before, who see cued toact jointly. They frequently brought subjects whichhalt not been interred. Sohie'tiioes they disputed.Jolin Broggau, tarter. The evidence of this witnesswas nearly the same as Connotvays.Ann Dougal or Gray knows the prisdhers. Witnessand her husband lodged five nights fit tfieir holiad in the1 end of October. Saw a stranger womaii th^fe on the lastBrulay of October. Site hail on a dark sbrt of gown, aiida red' stripped bed-goVn under it. (Identified them.)She called herself Docberty. Was jn the house wit!) hertill near dark oil Friday. Buijke, said lie met her in. ashop, and brought her in about hine. o'clock. Burkeput witness and heT husband out, because he Said theyquarreled. He ordered them out of the.house directly.Witness left Mle house at that time, about fiye o’cl< e’k.Burke said they would pay their lodging for them thatnight, and told th0m to go to William glare’s. Went" to Hare’s with his wife, Who was in Burke's at the time.Beturned to Burke’s about nine o’clock for some of htrChild's clothes, and found the old woman singing andM‘Dougal and Hare dancing. Left Docluyty there;and nexj; morning', asked M'Dougal where the old wo¬man was, Whfj said she was impudent, and she had turn¬ed her opt. . Witness went to the corner where tljeStra!w was,- to Jook for a pair pf her child’s stockings.Burke asked Her' What she wanted, and swore herto get out .of that. He was then throwing whisky un¬der the bed and about the house, and said he wanted! ft toom, to get rpore, and lip also put some on his breast.Witness was ordered tp go under tire bed apfl get somepotatoes to put on, which she dSd. ’Flie straw was in k: corner, at the foot of the bed. Burke would not allowI*3 03 ■•'J-.nr- i q nw-r rrm,.-ooliu; no ,00,11 ^13h^r to search the straw for tlje stockings. Witness and"her husband Were afterwards left in the house with Mc-Dongal, wlio was lying on the bed. In the darkning.Witness discovered a dead body in the house. The bodywrfs .utider the straw at the foot of the bed. Witnesslooked on purpose, as'she was afraid from their proceed¬ings that there was sbmething wrong, and the first tfiihgshe got hold of, was the old woman Docherty’s rightanti. There was then no clothe's pn her. and her hits-batid hTled the head and frhey saw that the face Vras alittle'6ver with blood, about, the mouth and one side ofthe head • did not observe any wound about the body,which wits lying bn the right side. Witness filing theshawl over it, and her husband and slip Itad left thehouse and met Mrs Bbrke on thd stair, and asked herabout'the body. She bade them hold their tongup, aiidehp wriuld give them a few shillings.—And if they wpuldbe quiet, they would be worth ten pounds a-week. Wjf-pess told her it was the old woman’s, ’body, who was welllast night, singing on cfcle fiobr, aricl she was ueau to-nigi',t>She repeated her offer, to which witness replied, “.(jofiforbid that I should prbfit by, such ineans.” Her hus¬band then gave inforinadon to the police. When witnessspoke to M‘Dougal about the1 body, she said “Kly Cod !bow could I help it.” ,,damps Gray, Labourer^ corroborated the chief parts pfhis wife’s testimony.John M‘Culloch, porter, recollecfs of Hare employ¬ing him to carry a box to Surgeon’s Square. Saw thebody packed in the box. It was wrapped in a sheetj.There was a good deal of pressing before the body wa$got jn, which Hare assisted Burke in doing. He carfi-td the box as directed, and Burke paid him five shillings.Wrii. Haire or Hare, a xncius criminis, was warned MM>e»k tl>e truth, as severe punishment would be inflictedif he deviated from it. Became acquainted with theprisoners about u year since. Was in a public house14with Burke on Halloween day, who told him to go to hi#house to see the shot he had got for the doctors, mean¬ing an old woman whom he had got off the street. Un¬derstood by a shot that Burke was going to murder her.Witness went, and found Gray, his wife, M‘Dougal, andthe old woman, who was washing her shortgown. Wasthere in the evening, when they had some whisky.Quarreled with Burke afterwards. While they w’erefighting, witness pushed the old woman over a little stool,and she wras so drunk that she could not get farther tha»• to sit. She called to Burke to quit fighting, which atlast he did, and witness lay still on the bed. Burke thengot on the top of the woman, who was lying on the floor,laid himself down upon her, with his breast upon herhead. She ofied, but not loud, but he held in her breath,and she only moaned a little after. He put one handon her nose and mowth, and the other under her chin.He continued this,for ten or 15 minutes, and said noth¬ing all the while. He then got up from the woman, whodid not move. Burke put his hand upon her mouthagain for two or three minutes, when she appeared tobe quite dead. Burke then stript off the clothes, andput them under the bed, and doubled the body up, andcovered it with straw. M‘Dougal and Hare’s Wife werein the bed when Burke threw herself on the woman, butthey both ran out of the house when she gave tire firstcry, and did not return till all was over. None of themattempted to save the woman. When the women camein, Burke went out and remained about ten minutes, andbrought Paterson along with him, whom he asked tolook at the body, but he would not do so, and told him toput it into a box. Fell asleep when Paterson was there.He awoke betw'een six and seven. The two women andBroggan wrere in the bed, and Burse was sitting at thefife. Assisted Burke next morning to get a box andput the body into it. Paterson paid them five pound*,of which he got two pounds seven and sixpence, and15they were to get five pounds more on Monday. SawBurke taken up that night, and witness was taken upnext morning. Has frequently been concerned in sup-plying doctors with subjects as mentioned. Declinedto answer the following questions:—How often hav***>you seen them doing it ?—Was the murder of theold woman the first you were concerned in ?■—Was therea murder committed in your house in October last ?•—Hare afterwards admitted that he “ never was concernedin none,” but he saw them done. Denied at the police-office that he ever knew the old woman. Sat on thechair for ten minutes while Burke was murdering thewoman without moving hand or foot, and without cryingmurder or police.Mrs Haire or Hare solemnly admonistied to speaktruth, corroboratedcthe greater part of Hare’s evidence.Was alarmed at what she saw on the night in question.Saw Burke on the woman, but could not say whether onher breast or mouth. Had some reason of suspicion,having seen a little trick of it done before. M‘Dougalpreviously told her that there was a shot in the house,meaning the old woman, who she understood by this,was to be murdered. M!Dougal expressed no regretfor the old woman. The reason she ran but was shewould see the woman murdered. Did not expect shewas to be murdered that night.Dr. Black; was of opinion that the woman had dieda violent death by suffocation. Described the appear¬ance of the body.Dr. Christison Examined the body minutely; andf.und some slight external contusisns, a few internal in¬juries, but no sign of natural disease ; and stated, thatdeath by violence was extremely probable.This closed the case of the prosecution, and the d#-darations of the pannels were then read.'Die Lord Advocate addressed the Jury in a speech•f great length, and maintained that the joint testimonyof the witnesses established such a connected train of«nrcumstances, as to leave no doubt whatever as to thvguilt of the prisoner*. He recounted the evidence inthe clearest manner, apd concluded by craving a verdictof (iuiltv.The Dean of Faculty spoke at; great length en behalfof liurke, and contended that there was no other evidence,of the fapt of murder than that of Hare and his wife, whowere so utterly polluted and contaminated, that theycould not be relied on.Mr Cockburn addressed them on belialf of M‘Dougal.He also impugned the evidence of these miscreants-tylmt could fhe jury think of the evidence, of the manwho came fonyard and said, 1 have byen guilty of onemurder, but want to free myself from blame by impeach¬ing another who was not,probably go.guilty ? They.hadseen thy ^squalid wretch—tire very, picture of his re-olting trafKy—a visible spectacle of penury and prof-.gaey.The Lord Justice Clerk then commenced his chargeto the jury, which lasted two hours and a half. He seem¬ed to consider the libel clearly proven against both.At halfkpast eight the jdry retired, an,d after an ab¬sence of fifty minutes returned a verdict finding \V'ilUamBurke Guilin of the charge; and the libel against Hefi-pM'Dougal Not Proven.The Lord Advocate having moved for the sentencecf the Court,Lord Meadowbank. said, after a trial of unexam¬pled length—protracted to nearly twejvty-fpur hours—a, trial in which the minds of your Lordships has been-ex¬cited to the uttermost, it would be improper in me todetain the Court with commcmting on the circumstancesof this atrocious case; and I feel that it is quite impos¬sible for nny ami who has attended to tlib proceedings inthis trial, to thidk that we have any thing, left to do but togo through with the distressing duty, whch has now fulletisicr Lordships to perfonii. But it i s impossible, in’.vbolo circmnst ae, s of* tUis distrf*S.titi*‘case, not to aiTviert to fnat cxtraOrclins-y—turlt reost'uo-t0-.3cqnsiclefih?tire,speakthe presence’ofybur LjO^d^iipSj iviio can'errrcct rne it'"wrong,; that in tlie whole history of the coitntry—i hmy "1say in - the history of civilised society—nothing hasbut we had flattered ourselves that bdr icplihtt'y wafe Ina great' measure free fropi the stigltia of aiVy 'gieat orheinpus atidcify' committed within its bduhdy. That 'fiVirnrl 'hvHOJ•th^c tneir unonenfUng.••d purpose of disposliur of i'.oir bodies, is to the las'de^jey Rumiliating.', 'l ife very announcement erf’ shclva system is snlficicnt to raise ideas of horror which itwqidd'iie vain to search for wonfe adequately to express.3}’liph 1 fake d vievd of the other features of this cdst. Ft ’exhibits’a picture of iniquity whicli the greatest stretch •“of ihiagihaiion’can hardly take in, yet it wa's so clearly-"brought out in proof, that I am §ufe it must critry con-'v.jctiop to every’one who heard fhe evidence. It is proved'"that the prisdner. in j>oing up the1 street after some of*his usual ^vocations ‘ in the'rhoVniRg^ fell iri with thepoor unprotected old Vvomah, Witli ’.vhrtm ft is quite'*clear that he wai peffeclH' uhhqukihtfd heforC. Now ’began his affangdfnehts for ensnaring his victim. WitMflic immediate fec fihg upon liini of the object which hehid in view, he claims kindhad in viewy he claims kindred with'hef by a fietitomaarne ; and b'y preteriee of'kfndndSs endeavoufs to gam*m her affections. He entices her rftto his house, andthere continued, his fnen'dshql to her, insomuch that she18expressed gratitude to Mrs Cpnnaway for the kindnessrrith which he had treated her. He thus contrived sofar to achieve his object, that she seems to have openedher affection and confidence to him—she looked to himfor protection—she felt he had dealt kindly with her—she refused to enter the house until he entered with het.A struggle, or pretended struggle, ensued ; and, when 1recollect that the moment she fell the struggle endedI cannot rationally entertain a doubt that it was feigned,and got up for the purpose of entrapping her, arid throw¬ing her offhergaurd. What did the individual to whomshe looked for protection now do ? She is thrown down,and he, with the atrocity of a demond, instantly throwshimself upon her, and extinguishes life in a few mo-n.ents. I do not state this with any view whatever otexciting the feelings, cr aggravating indignation againstthe unhappy prisoner, but really when such a system ofcrime, in which there, are niany actors, is developed inthe midst of this great metropolis, 1 cah'not resist statingtiie impression which it has made on my mind as one ofthe most monstrous exhibitions of atrocity ever disclos¬ed in the annals of criminal jurisprudence in this or anyother country. Sitting as I do in this place, there is littleoccasion to advert to certain matters that w ere pointedat, and eloquently pointed at, in course of the defence.1 will only observe, that with matters of science weImivc nothing to do. We have but to administer jus-•ice, and God forbid that the claims of science shouldprevent us feeling that horror which such offences arecalculated to cxite. The prisoners must have been con¬scious that he was violating that great command of theMost High, “ Thou shall not commit murder.” Thereis no doubt that the duty of the court is to condemnthe prisoner, and 1 now suggest, that the prisoner beexecuted on the 28th day of January next, and his bodygivep for dissection.Lord Makenzic expressed his concurrence,19Hie Lord Justice Clerk then addressed the prisonernearly as follows:—William Burke, you now standcon-ricted of .the at rocious crime of murder, upon evidencewhich could not leave a doubt of your guilt on the mindof any one who heard it. I so fully concur in the viewwhich has been so eloquente given by my LearnedBrother of the nature of the offence, that I will notoccupy the time of the Court with commenting on it.—A crime more atrocious, a more cold blooded, deliberate,and systematic preparation for murder, and the motiveso , w’as really unexampled in the annals of the country.It is now my duty to inform you, that if ever it wrasclear beyond all possibilty of a doubt, that the sentencewould in any case be carried into full execution, ih s isone of these cases. You may rest assured that you have-no otlter chance; and now I would solemnly warn you toprepare your mind in the most suitable manner to appe-afin a very short time, before the Throne of AlmightyGod to answer for this crime, and for every other withwhich you stand chargeable in your own conscience.The necessity of repressing crimes of this nature pre¬cludes the possibility of your intertaining the slighesthope of a remission of your sentence. The only doubt Ihave in my rqind is, whether to satisfy the violated law *of your country and the voice of public indignation,your body ought to be hung in chains, to bleach in thewinds., in order to deter others from the commisson ofsimilar offences. But taken into consideration that thepublic eye would be offended by So dismal a spectacle, Iam willing to accede to a more lenient execution of your•entencc, and that your body should be publicly dissect¬ed. I trust that if it is ever customary to preserve skele¬tons, yours shall be preserved, in order that posteritymay keep in remembrance your atrocious crimes. Iearnestly advise you to lose no time in humbling your¬self in the. sight of God, and that you will seek the aidff the ministers of religion, to whatever profession youPKi hubf' ' ’) ‘loitPuT tyu T « rrm;n belong. 'Hie present charges have been fn!‘\established against .you, 4 is my du?-'.; t6 infant) you thatyou have but"lev/ days to remain on the earth. !!:-'f.ovd<h;j) "the^firecounred, with drfe solesVniity. :;.sentence of t!;e',Ia\v.'11)0scene altogether was singulaHy striking' tmdimpres.vc. The prisoner stood with unbler,(thing finti-nesl. Kot a shade passed across his ebuntcnn'nce. not’anmscle'of'liis features Was'disconipoShif during the:3dl<efrmaddress of the Lord Justifce Clerk CohsfgnTn'gl’h)m tddeath. At this ihbnient, 'as indeed throughout the wholetrial, lie fcetiv'.yed that ii'iddfeericie to his sitiitation ivffidicould only spring fr.oimifter rcokTeksness of life, or he theealni' of settled despab' —'fhe Tettja'le'' [tTrsoriet,'th6:d|her luincl; was greatly agitated. During* the whole ofthe tried she had betrayed great'restlessness and am:iet\-.l^ep’faee.w'as often deadly pale, and nitfiough theeipres-sioiPbf'Vter leatufe^ yas;tidt Upphtli’e whple disagreeably,it Trec[ueidly assunled ah'ag'gafd and 'dedtldike aspect. At(tne raohient when'sentence vvys ibroriottiiced on Burke,i-fie was drowneu id tears, dnd seended f6 feci deeply farthe wretch who had hiddently no f'^eltnTfarlu'm^clf.The streets' in tht’vicinity of the Cbhrr'freffe crovftledtill'a fate hour in tlib niorWrn^ Vbpt jiblic’e succeeded.Hn-bughout the \\sho?e <14^ 'and night, in keeping fhdjnuldtude ttt a cli|.timce 'ffotni the doors' df the Court, pre-serving the com.nlunicatioh with'it ilnihterrupted. ' Atthe same time ('Verf precaution was taken to preser^’ethe public peace. The High Constable^bf the city andits dependebpies'mastered at six o'clofck in the evening,and the police' received a tetnporary reinforcement of int-wards bf three hundred jheii, who were bn duty thedvlioietime.' In order, however, to express effectually tinydisturbance, the ipfantry in the castle and the cavalryat Piershiif, were'under orders fb march at a momentsnotice into the city. Notwithstahding, this, however, awot) assembled in the cours’e Vfftho night/and proceeded21to Surgeon’s Square, with the intention of attackingthe Lecture-room’s. But a strong body of stud^htsarmed with pistols, and Hanked by two detachments'ofpolice, showed so formidable a front, that tluiy were com¬pelled to retreat without accomplishing their object, or,indeed, doing may mischief. Some pitiful ruffian? thenproceeded to the College, and broke several windows inDr. Monro’s apartments, from North College Street.At four o’clock yesterday morning, Burke was con¬veyed in a coach from the Calfon-hill Jail to the Lock¬up- House. The time of conveyance was such, thatno one, but the instruments employed, were presentat it. He was under shackles of 0 peculiar magnitudeand strength. lie preserved the composure of mindwhich belongs to him peculiarly; but'upon his deadclothes—( a suit of sables, very gencrovsly furnished Urhim at the c.tpence of the city )—being produced’to him,he manifested very great emotions ; and, hv his ow nconfession, he felt it. During the whole of the day hewas perfectly composed. On being asked on the sub¬ject of Daft Jamie’s murder,-he said that f/are’s wifedecoyed him into //are’s house, and that Hare and Idswife murdered him.Such was the intense anxiety of the public w ith re¬gard to: the execution of Burke, that at? a very eariyihour this morning, people from very remote districtscame in crowds to the Lawnniarket. fcever,-we believe,was such an assemblage seen—not even upon thdoccasion of the execution of Mary M’Kifmon, who,poor woman, had not tike advantage of having suchan indulgent jury as that which acquitted HelenM’Dougal. The tread of many feet, as of the rush.mg of many waters, was heard so early as five o’clock«n the morning.During the whole of last evening, Burke was Unu¬sually tranquil, and even slept soundly for some time,lie said to those in attendance that he had committedno more murders than those which were comprised inthe declaration he made, since his conviction, to theSheriff. He exclaimed, at one time, “ O that the hourwere come, which is to separate me from the world !”He ascribed the commencement of his enormities to* harvesting, which, we presume, was meant to ini plytJie formation of his intimacy with M Doqgal.Early in the morning, Burke was -visited by twoCatholic clergymen, the Rev. Messrs Reid and Stewart.At half-past five o’clock, he complained of the weightof his shackle^, and expressed a strong desire, to havethem struck off, which was at once complied with. Uponholding out his leg to the smith, and on the fetters fal¬ling from it, he exclaimed, turning up his eyes to Heaven,“ So may all mv earthly chains fall from me ! ’ Atseven o’clock, the culprit was brought into the keeper'sroom, attended by one of the priests ; he walked withmuch firmness, nor was there the slighest agitation distin¬guishable about him. There wmre present at the time,three of the Magistrates, Bailies Child, Chrichton, andSmall. What is somewhat singular, he exhibited no•motion on tlx# executioner making his appearance. He•ooly remarked, “ I am not yet ready for you/’Precisely at eight o’clock, the procession began tomove. When Burke, who was tightly pinioned, sup¬ported by the two priests, arrived at the place of execu¬tion, his face denoted great anxiety, as if uncertain of hisreception from the immence mob, and he hurried onwith his eyes half closed, seemingly eager to anticipatebis fiite. What was most terribly appalling, and vetmost gratifying, the assembled crowd, which could nothe short of 30,000 souls, rent the air with shouts of ex-23Wortation, when the mohster appeared upon the scaffbW :and the same cheers were renewed at every striking fea¬ture of the horrible tragedy. VV hen the first shout wasraised, Burke threw a look of defiance upon the assem¬bled multitude. The reverend ^Ir. Marshall thenprayed with the criminal for sometime, after which, liequietly yeilded himself to the executioner.—When thefatal rope was placed round his neck there was an uni¬versal cry of “ Burke him,” and when the cap wasdrawn over his eyes the cheering was tremendous—andfrequently repeated during the whole of the horribleprocess mingled with cries of “ Hare, Hare,” “Knox,” &c.After a short conference with the Catholic clergymanhe, precisely at a quarter past eight, impatiently threwraway the handkerchief and surrendered his guilty soulto his Maker. His struggles were long and violent andhis body was convulsively agonized. His fall was un¬usually short—scarcely more than three' inches, and thenoose instead of being as is usual immediately behindthe ear was at the very summit of the vertebrae. Atevery struggle the wretch made when suspended, a mostrapturous shout was raised by the mighty multitude.When the body was cut down, at ^ past eight, the mostfrightful yell ever heard was raised by the indignantpopulace, who manifested the most eager desire .to getthe monster’s carcase Within their clutches to gratifytheir revenge by tearing it in pieces even after the Lawhad been satisfied, and were only restrained by the boldeffort presented by the police. The persons under thei scaffold carried knives and scissars and were eagerlypossessing themselves of part of the rope and even ofshavings from the coilin. The scramble at this timewas of the most extraordinary nature ever witnessedat an execution in this country.As one among many proofs of the excited state; public feeling, this fact may be noticed—that iu anxj(liii;24i^^inbled fclje previous day af fho piace of c«f?cotio«iu the -forenoon, and remained there the Whole day;OJid when in the-evening the fatal beam was placed tip-right, three tremendous clieers were given by a greatarowd who waited on notwithstanding-the heavy rainand snow. V\ indows adjoining were let at greaf prices,chiefly to wealthy foreigners. Thus perished this fiend'in human shapesCONFESSION.Os the .3d Jan. 182!), Burke confessed in presence of theSiheritf, that he had eommitted the following murders, ' ir.:—Isrt, A woman from GUmerton,—3d, Joseph the Milter,—:!d, An old woman whp lodged in his house in May I'rfVt-y—1th, An Englishman who was yery ill of the juiuadice.—.jth,-Au old woman named Ilalden,—6th, }i cinder-gatherer,—-7-8th, A Higliland wonmn with her son dr grandson, about 13years of age.—9th, A W oman whom he brought to the lioii -eas a lodger,—tOth, A woman whom Hare murdered in hisabsenee,—11th, A woman named Margdiv.t I bikien, daughterof the woman Halden before-mentioned,— 13th, the girl J’a-terson,—,idth, A washer-woman named Ostler,—14th, A wo¬man tparned M'Dougal, who came on a visityo his wifg,— I d.Daft Jahiie,— J 6th, The old woman .Doeherty. Tltcy alsosold the‘body of a man named Donald, who died in his liouse.and-for whose body they received 71 10s from Mr Knox. Hedeelareil that the whole of these persons were suffocated asmentioned in the Trial, and .that this iriodd of killing Jirst <>r-enrred to Hare, and was afterwards continued, because it wweffectual, and show ed no marks.. He also declared that Haregenerally took the most active part in these ipurders.—Thatall the b6dies were sufficiently cold to prevent suspicion, andthat the -^hole were sold to Dr Knox, who never asked anyquestions concerning them:.FINISu iadl smii ; r/l ■ . ' iriB oi