, THE >, I , ■ tLondon Aftrologer;O H, A .Young Girl put to the Blufh.TO W4U€n ASK ADDED,| DRINKING DROWNS CARE.THE LAD Y’S DIARY.The Love & Rage of Highland Donald.THE M A L T M A N.[JENNY NETTLES.- G L A S G O W,Frimtd b, J.« M. ROBERTgON, SiUmtUt,iSoa.( * )THE LONDON ASTROLOGER.THERE was an otd \flrologer,in London he did dwell.For telling girls their Fortunes,all others did excel.And marry a pretty fair young maid,to this ord man would go,All of them'beiftg willing,their Fortunes for to know.Amongft the reft, a pretty girl,to this old man (he went,AlWcr to have her Fortune told,it was her whole intent.She afked for the Gunning Man, -anftver to her was made.He is up flairs iu his chamber,-go call hiuh down fhe$aid.When that fne faw the Cuuning Man,(he thus to him did fay,I have heard yew can tell Fortunes,come tell’me mine I pray.■ And if that you the fame will do,i’ll pay you well, faid fhe ;‘ No fear of that, my Girl, he faid,come walk up (lairs with me.j I will not come up (lairs with yoa?nor any man indeed.She fpoke with as much mo deft y, "as if (he’d been a maid.I Bcfides I am in hade. Sir,and thought not to have (laid,Come be as nimble as you can.I’m but a fervant maid.1 Then he ftocd and viewed her,his (kill began to rife, . , 't| He fpoke fueh words unto this maid,which did her quite furprifc.|IIr.It is true you are a fervant,but fare you are no maid ;It is time that you were wed my g’-r," you have the wanton play’d.You would havelaugh’d to’ve feen her bihearing him What he faid.But ftill (he told for anfwcr,that yet (he was a maid. -| Deny it not, my girl, he faid,and tcll me nothing lo,1’. For you lay with your mafter,Jnot many nights ago.Then (he began to curfe and fwear,(he would her maftcr bring ‘That he would teftify for h*r,that there was no fuch thing.'C 4 ) .Deny it not my Girl, he laid,it'makes your cafe look worfe*For your matter gave to you a crown,you have it in your purfe-When flie faw him fo pofnive,{he could it not deny.She turn’d herfelf right round about,to him made this reply jIndeed l am a maiden yet, *and* hopes fo to remain.My Matter got my Maidenhead,but he gave it me again.DRINKING DROWNS CAREFI LI. your glaffes, banitti care,Wealth and worldly care defpife,Sorrow ne’er can bring relief;Joys fr6m drinking will arife.Why fhould we with anxious care.Spoil what Nature’s made fo fair ?Chor. Drink and fet your heart at reftOf a bad bargain make the beft.Mirth when mingled with our wine.Makes the heart alert and free :Let it rain, or fnow, or fhine.All the fame it is to me.There’s no fence againft our fate,Changes daily on us wait.Chor, Drink and fet your heart at reftOf a bad bargain .make the beft| Some purfue the winged wealth.Some to iionour do afpirc;Give me freedom, ^ive me health.That's the fum of my defire.What this world could more prefent.Would not add to ray content.,Chor. Drink and fet your heart at reft;Of a bad bargain make the beft.THE LADY'S DIARY.LEGT UR*D by Pa and Ma o'er night,Monday, at ten, quite veA'd and jealous,Rcfolv’d in future to be right,and never liften to the fellows lStitch’d half a wriftband, read the text,receiv'd a note from Mrs. Rackit:I hate the woman, Ihe fat next,all church-time, to Tweet Captain Clackit.Tuefday got fcolded, did not care,the toaft was cold, *twas paft eleven}I dreamt the Captain, through the air,on Cupid's wings bore me to heav'n !Pouted and din’d, drefs’d, look'd divine,made an excufe, got Ma to back itiWent to the play, what joy was mine italk'd loud & laugh'd with Captain Clackit*Wednefday came down, no lark fo gay!the girl's quite alter’d, faid my Mother;Cry*d Dad, 1 reoolle& the daywhen, Dearie, thou wert fuch another.Danc’d, drew a landfcape, ikim’d a play,in the paper read that widow Flackic'To Gretna-Green had ran away,the forward minx! with Captain Clackit.Thurfday fell Tick; ppor foul, ihe’ll die ;five doctors carne with* length’ned faces jEach felt nay pulfe ; ah/ rne ! cry’d l,are thefe my promis’d loves and graces'!Friday grew worfe; Cry’d Ma, in pain,our day was fair, heav’n do not black it;Where’s your complaint, love ? In my brain,what Hall.1 ^ive you? Captain Clacidt.Early next morn a noftrum cameworth all their cordials, balms, andfpicss,A letter ; I had been tp b’ame ;t‘he Captain’s truth brought on a crifis :Sunday, for fear of more delays,of a few clothes l made a packet.Antd Monday morn flept in a chaiie,and ran away with Captain Clackit.The Love and rage of Highland Donald.Highland Donald, fwore a wilewas not lo gi eat an evil,Ano v:.ny but a husband s life, »was lure a Highlbnd devil.Then Highland Donald tun’d his pipe,he had been feme months married jSeverely now he feels a whipfor Horns our Donald carried.i 1 \ / s‘Now Highland Donald thump'd his wife,be fwore (he was not civil,iAnd to get quit, he’d part with life,and fend her to the Devil,THE MALTMAN.Hp HE maltman comes on Munday,he craves wonder fair,IJCries “ Dame come gi'c rae my filler,i “ or malt ye fall ne’er get maif,”1 took, him into^the pantry, ^and gave him fome cock-broo,,3yne paid him upon a ga-ntree,as hoftler-wives Ihould do.JvVhen maltmen come for ft-Mer, .and gaugers wi’ wands o’er foon,pv'ives, tak them a’ down to the cellar,and clear them as I ha’e done. » „This bewith, when cunzie is fcanty,will keep them frae making din ;fThe knack I learn’d frae an. auld aunty,j the fnackeft o’ a’ my kin.Iibe maltman is right cunning,tut L can be as flee,In’ he may crack o’ his winning,whan he clears fcores wi’ nfe ;or come whan he likes. I’m ready,bat if frae hadie l be,et him wait on our kind Lady,fhc’U anfwer a bid'for me.( 8 )JENNY N E T T L E S.SA W ye Jenny Nettle*,Jenny Nettle*, Jenny Nettles,Saw ye p nny Nettles,coming frae the market;Bag and baggage on her back,her fee and bountith in her lap $Bag and baggage on her back^and a’babie in her oxter.I met ayont the Kairny,Jenny Nettles, Jenny Nettles,Singing till her bairny,Robin Rattle's baftard;To flee the dool upo* the ftool,and ilka ane that mocks her.She round about fecks Robin out,to flap it in bis oxter.Fy, fy ! Robin Rattle,Robin Rattle, Robin Rattle ;Fy, fy ! Robin Rattle,ufe Jenny Nettles kindly : _ -Score out the blame, and Ihun the fhatne,and without more debate o't.Tak hame ycur wain, mak Jenny fain,the leel and lecfome gate o’t.GLASGOW,Printed by J. & Id.Robertfon, SaUmarketj ticz.