THEHISTORYAND!OMICALTRANSACTIONS%OF> • "LOTHIAN TOM.IN SIX PARTS.WHEREIN is CONTAINED,: collection of Roguish Exploits, done by lu:ii,T>othin Scotland a:Vd England.^ Stirling, Printed and Sold by C. Randall.THECOMICAL TRANSACTIONSHOMAS BLACK, vulgarly ciLothian Tom, becaufe he refideiMid-Lothian, was born four miles frominburgh. His father being a very weafarmer, gave him good education, whidwas very aukward in receiving, being awild crofs, mifchievous boy.i. When he was about ten years ofhe was almoft killed by the broke of a ho;foot, which his father had, w ho had a tof kicking at every perfon that came belhim. But when Tom was got heal of tdreadful wound, whereof many theughtwould have died ; to be even with the hehe gets a dog, or a piece of tree whichfull of wooden pins, fuch a thing as fl-makers ule to {often their leather upon ;wuh a rope he tied it to the couple baukthe ft able, directly eppolite to the horfts tthen gets up on the bauk, and g vts it a iwback fo that the pikes in the ena of it, c:with fail drive sgainfl the hcrle's arfe w!glade him to fling; and the more he flrOFLOTHIAN TOM.an3 flruck at it, it rebounded back again,and flruck him : the battle Jafted with greatlury for a long time which was good diver-fion for Tom, until his father hearing fornediiturbance in the fta de came in to know thematter, and was furprifed when he faw thepoor horfe tannin? his own hide, with his legsall cut and bloody ! lie cut the rope, and thej battle was ended ; but the poor horfe wouldj never kick at any that came behind him af>i terwards, but always ran from it.2. It happened one day that Tom wenti a-fuhing, ana brought home a few final; fiih,i which ins grandmother's cat fnapt up in the^ dark: fo l orn to have jUtlice of the cat| for fo doing, catches her, and puts h,sr infoii a lirtle tub- or cog, then fets her a drirt inti)3 a mill earn, ordering her to go a fdh'ng forI herfeif; then fe:s out two or three dogsEupon her, when a moll terrible fea hgnte'hied, as ever was feen on frelli water!for if <my of the dogs allayed to board her,by fetting in over their nofe, hadrons came( flying to that quarter to repuife hi a withher claws j then ihe veflei was like to beoverfet by the weight of herfeif, to that filehad to flee to the ocher, an * finding the famathere, from thence to the middle, where fltafat mewing always turning htrLlf about,coraumg their nofes with her foot ihe ol4woman, being informed of the dangerousfituatipn of her dearly beloved cat, camtrunning with a long po?e to beat off the dogs,and haul her afhore. What now ? fays Tom,Jf you be going to take part with my ene¬mies, you fhall have part of their reward :then gives the old woman fuch a pulh that Ihetumbled into the dam over head and ears oe«fide her beloved cat, and would undoubtedlyhave perifhed in the water, had not one othe people who was.there looking at the oiverfion come to her relief,3. After this, Tom was fent to the fchoolto keep his hand out of an ill turn: andhaving an c Id canker’d, crab witted fellowfor his Dominie, they were always at variance: for, when Tom got his whips, wTiicfhe often defeived, he was fure to be ravengecjupon his Maher again for it. So lorn perceiving his Mafter had a ciofe-ffooi in a littie clofet w’iihin the fchcoi, where he wealand eafed himftlf when need was, Torn get/a pennyworth of gun powder, and fprinkledit on the ground dirtctly before the feat,and lays a iiule of it along m a train to thtfire-fide ; then obferving when his Malletwent into it, as he was looping down hisbreeches, lets fire to the train, which blew iiall about his MafUr's bare hips, and ftcrchechim Unibiy, befides the fright j for wide!;’em was fe^erely whipt. Yet, in a Ikiletier, he began to (ludy to be revenged onis Matter.4. So it happened one day, as Tom wentito the Matter's houfe. the wife was ftoop-tg into a bio; meal barrel to brings out fomereal; there he takss her by the feet, and: oups her up iato the barrel with her head['own, and her bare' backfire upoernioft !ijhen runs into the fc o l, crying, O Matter,;»lafter ! the de’ilV looking cut o’ your mealland, vri* a fat face, an1, a black iil-faur’dinouth ! yon's juft :\ui! Nick, if he be living.:kt this the Matter ran with all the fpeed he:ould, to lee what it was and found it to be.is own wife, fpeechlefs, and aimolt f.noth-Ired to death ; but as (he could not tell whoid it, lom got clear off. Yet be was notutbfied without fome more vengeance on, theiid fellow': And knowing his Matter had, fafhion, when, he was going to whiphe boys, if they would not looie their>reeches willingly, he drew his knife and■rut them thiough the waiftband behind;■o Tom goes to a butcher, and gets a raw>uddi.)g, and fills it with blood and water,md puts it within the waiftband ot hismeeches ; then goes to fchool next day:\nd as the Matter was fitting wuth his backawards the fire, Tom lights a piece of paper,lie would be Tom’s teacher no longer•So Tom’s lather had to feek another mafther him.PART II.i. There was a young woman fervaito Tom’s father, whom Tom had ofFendeby (feme of his tricks, and {he to be up witTom again, one night fpread a handful cfhort nettles in his bed, between the fheet;which flung his legs and thighs fo mudthat he was obliged to quit his bed for forapart of the night; for which he refolved tbe revenged, whenever a proper opportunit< ffered. It happened in a few days afteithat {he was invited to a wedding/ wherthe dancing and diverfion induced her tilay ail night; and on coming home in thmorning, her mUtrefs fet her to waft fomclothes; but fte being fatigued with henight’s diverfion, and for want of reft, fefaft afleep, with her hapds extended in thtub, and Handing on her feet, with her bellleaning on the tub : Tom percieving thisflips her petticoats and knock over her headletting the fun ftine on her bare back fidewhich faced the highway. Several peopipalling by, while fhe continued in this po.ture, iome of them were diverted, and ctheialhamed at the light j but a poor cadger hajnd fcts bis v/ig in a low, winch bur4t forome tinr; unptnceived, till the flames came; izzing about his ears! He firft put out the< lames by tramp ing on the wig : and beingutormed that Tom had done it, rbes to himla a rage ordexing him to loofe his breeches:ut Torn told him, he was never fo mad.Then he drew out his knife, whips poor Tom/over his knee, and with great kicking and: firuggiing, cuts the wai*:band ot his breechesi through pudding and all fo that the bloodj guihed out, an.i Tom cried out. Murder 1ijmurder ! and down he fell. The poor Do-jininie ran out at the door, crying and wring-I'jing his hands! Word flew about that Tomjiflvas flick et by the Dominie, which made!the people come running from feveral partsof the country round about, to fee how itwas; but upon fearching him they foundonly the empty pudding, which difcoveredthe fraud. Then two men had to get horfesand ride after the poor Dominie who hadby this time got two or three miles away ;but when he law them riding after him. andheard them crying to him to ftop and co neback again, he ran the fader, until he couldrun no more, but fell over upon the road,praying them to let him go, for if he wastaken back, he was hire to be hanged j andwould n®t be perfuided Tom was alive, tillthey forced him back, and he law him, butIsthe misfortune to be coming on the road at]the time ; and his horfe taking fright at thisfunufual fight, threw off the creeps and broke'the poor man’s eggs ali to fmafh! which foj•enraged him, that he lafiied her buttockswith his whip, in Inch an unmerciful manner,!that with the fmart and ihame together ihehad not the lea'l inclination to fleep for theremain:; g part of that day.2. Tom, being grown uo to the yearsfanu age of a man, thought himfelf wifer andflyer than his father ; and there were feveralthings about the houfe he liked better thanto work ; fo he turned to be a dealer amongltthe brutes, a cow per of hetfes and cows &c.andtvtn wet ware, arrongft the breu'ers andbrandy (Imps, until he cowped himfelf to thetoom halter; and then his parents wouldlupply him no more. He knew well hisgrandmother had plenty of money, but Ihewould give him none; but the old womanhad a good black cow of her own, whichTom went to the fields one evening, andcatches, and takes her into an old w^aftehoufe which flood at a diffance from anyother, and there he kept her two or threedays, giving her meat and dri.'-k when itwas dark at night, and made the old womanbeheve fomebody had ffclert the cow fortheir winter's mart, which was grief enough:o the o’d woman, for die iofs of her clear;/•• :ow. However Ihe employs Tom to goid a fair that was near by, and bay heranother, gives him three pounds which Tom:i accepts of very thankfully, and promifes tot, duv one as like the ctner as poffibiy he couldget j then be gets a piece of cnajk. and braysit as fmall as meal, ,and bleeps it in a littlewater, and therewith rubs over the cow’sface and back, which made her baith brucketana rigger: So 1'ovn, in the morning, takesthe cow to a pub’ic houfe, within a litcle ofthe fair and left her till the fair was over.Sand then crives her home before him; ands foon as they came nome;, the cow begano rout as file UAvd to do., which made theId woman to rejoice , thinking it was herv n blaCii cow, oat when Ihe law her whiteace, fighed and laid Atis 1 thou hi ne’er Deike the kindly Dru e, my Black lady, and|Jyet rouis as like h.r as ony ever 1 ciii hear,bit fays i’om to hiaifelf, His a mercy youno* ?-.ot what the fats, or all would berang yet bo in two or three days the oldwoman put forth her bra’ rigget cow in thecorning with the Jell of her neighbour’stile Dut it came on a foie day of heavyain, which walked away all the white fromflier face and back ; fo iaat me old woman’s.Black-lady came home at nivhr, and tier' 11with the coffin, and he fliould have his moneyaltogether. Tom fet out for the a'e houfewith the money, and Jived well while it lafted.Next mcruing, the wlight and his two ladswent out with the coffin; and as they w^ereg' ing into the houfe, Tom’s mother (landingat the door, affied the mailer how he did,;'and ’where he was going with that fine coffin?he did not know well what to fay, being fofurprifed to fee her alive 1 but at laft he toldher. that her fon brought in the meafure iheday before and fad got a guinea anti a half |fiom him, which he faid was to buy fomencceflaries for the funeral, O the rogue ! |faid Hie, has he play’d me that? So thewright got his guinea and a half. 2^ feme-thing for his trouble, and had to take homehis coffin with him again.\2 Tom being now fhort of money again,began to think how he could raile a i'relhfupyly : So he, went to the port amongll the(hearers, and there he hired about thirty ofthem, and agreed to give them a wholeweek’s (hearing at tenpence a-day whichwas twopence higher than any had gdt thatyear; this made the poor (hearers think hewas as honelt, generous and gemeel a mafteras ever they-met with } for he took them allinto an ale heufe, and gave them a, heartybreakfaft, tiil they could eat no more, Now,10:ras never heard of. Bat Tom’s fatherlaving iome fufpicion, and looking narrowly;)to the cow’s face, found foine of the chaik.■jot waflied away, and then he gave poor form: hearty beating, and fent him away toipek ins fortune writh a ikinJui of foreiones.IPART IN.I i. Tom being now turned to his own fhifCs*imnftders with himfelf how to raife a little.note money. He gets a long firing, as nearis he could guefs to be che length ofibis mother, and in to Ed'nburgh he goes, toa wright who was acquainted with his fatherlaud mother: the wright nfk^d him ho . heiidid ? he anfwered him, Very fober'y; fori;lhe had loit a good dytiiul mother lad night,. and there was a mtafure for her coffin.—ITomwent out, and Raid for fome time, andIf then comes in again, and tehs the wright he| did not know what to- do, for his father had(ordered him to get maney from a man whomI he named , but he was that day gone out of| town. The wnght afked him now immh he< wanted ? to which he anfwered A guineaand a half might do, or thirty fhiltings atthe leak. So he gave him the guinea anda half; then Tom gave him itricl charges tobe out on the morrow agamlt eleven o’clock*2fays he, when there is fo many of you toifether, perhaps from different parts, and!unacquainted with one another, I do notknew but there may be fome of you honeilmen. and lomt of you rogues and as you - reto lie all in one barn together, any c!you who has any money, you’ll be fureft tagive it to r. e, and i’ll mark it down in mybook with your names, and what 1 recsivefrom each of you ; and yv_.u (bail have it ailagain on Saturday’s night, when you getyour wages. O very well goodinan ; takemine*, take mine every one faftti tlsan ano¬ther : fome gave him five, fix, feven, and.eight ihiiiings; even ali they had earned,thro’ the hafvdl, wirn^h amounted to nearfeven pounds flerling. Having got ail theirmoney, he goes on with them, till aboutthree miles out of town., and coming to agreat field of (landing corn, though fome-tning green, yet convenient for his purpofe,as it lay at fome diiiar.ee from any homes;So lie made them begin there and told themhe was going to order, dinner for them, andfend two oi his own fervants to join them.Then away he goes with ail the ip-ed heeouid, but takes another road into tne town,left they iiiculd follow and, catch him. In a (hort time after they began to work,the people to u horn the corn belonged fetingj'uch a band in their field, could not under-iftand the meaning of it; but the goo dm anwent off, crying always, as he ran, to thento ft op, but they would not, until he beganto (trike at them, and they a: him. he be*ngin a paffion, as the corn was not folly ppe ;at laft. by fores of argument, and otherpeople coming up to them, the poor H earers| were convinced they had got the bite, whichIc-ufed them to go away lame!it»ng t' sirgreat misfortune- !n two r three aysihereafter, as Fom was going ’own thei tiarnongate, he meets one .vi hi- (hearers,* wiio knew him, and kept fall by him, de-manding his money and iatitfaction for thereft : Whiftit. whiiht, fays S'o n, and you'llget yours, and {o> ething elfe befide. So FomI takes him into the jail, and calls for a bottleof ale and a dram, then takes the jr-iler a fide,as ii he had been going to borrow the moneyfrom, him, and lays to the jailor. This man isa great thief, I and two others have beenin iearch of him thefe three days, and thei other two men have the warrant with them ;ft) if you keep this rogue nere till ( run andbring them, you (hall have a guinea in re¬ward. Yes laid the jailor, go and I’ll fixtee rogue for you. iom gets clear out,leaving the poor innocent fellow and thejailor ftruggling together, and then lets offlor England directly*•r' 152. There was a fervent girl in the famehoufe, who always when (he made the beds, jnegledted to make rom’s. as (he would havehim to do it himhelf: Well then, fays Tom,1 have harder work to do, and 1 {hail do thattoo, fo next day w hen Tom was in the fteldat the plow, when he faw his matter comingsfrom the houfo towards him., he left the hor. •fes and the plow handing in the field, andgees away towards his ma ter, who cried,What is wrong, or is any thing broke withyou r No, no, fays Tom but i am goinghome to make my bed, it has not been madethefe two weeks, and juft now it is about tner'rae the maid makes ail the reft, fo 1*11 gohome and make mine too. No. no, fir rah,go back to ycur plow, and I’ll caijfe it to bemade every night for you Then fays To:n,, ril plow two or three furrows in the time.3. There was a butcher came to hismaiter’s and bought a fine fat calf; fo Tomlaid it on the horfe's neck before the butcher.And when he was gone. Now, lays idm,what wall you hold, mailer, bur i'll ilealthat calf from the butcher before he goestwo miles off? Why, fays his mailer, Tlihold a guima you don't. Done, fays lom.In he goes, and gets a good iboe of hismailer’s, and runs another way acroff thefields, until he got before the butcher, near14•1PART IV.t. Tom having How left his own nativeountry, went into the county of Northum-lerhnd, where he hired h%nfelf with nn old‘hifer of a farmer ; and there he continued>r feveral years, performing his duty in hisrvice very well, though iotnetimes ’-.yingroguifn bite on thole about him ; but h:sluatler had a very naughty cudom, he wouldtjilow them no candle at night to fee withf hen at fupper: Tom one night, fets him-: :lf next to nis mafter : and as they were allout to fall on, Tom puts his fpoov intoe heart of the di;h where the ctowdy was,otteft, and claps a fpoohiui into his rnalier’sliouth: A pox on you for a rogue, criedis mafter, for my mouth is all burnt ; A poxn you for a mafter, fays Tom, for you keephoufe as dark as Purgatory, for I wasfoing to my own mouth with that foup, andufs’d the way. it being fo dark ; don’t thinkrafter, that 1 am inch a fog fool as to feedou, while I have a mouth of my own.—o from that night that lorn burnt his maf-rs mouth with the hot crowdy, they alwaysrot a candle to fhew them light at lupper,or his mafter would feed no more in the darkwhile Tom was prefent.j 6to the corner of a hedge where there waan open anti turning of rbe way : Here loredarns himfelf behind the he ’ge, and throwsthe ihoein the middle of the nigh why. thenup conies the burcher riding, and his callbefore him : Hey. {hid he to himfelf, there'sa gcod fhoe if I knew how to get on my callagain I would light for it j bat what fignifiesone without its neighbour ? So on he ridesand lets it ly : Fcwn then flips cut and takesup the {hoe again, and runs acrofs the fields;until he got in b h»re the butcher at anotherc eu of the hedge, about half a mile diftantand there he throws out the Ihoe again onthe inidif ‘of the way; then up comes thebutcher, and fee’ng it, lays to himhdt, Nv.tI {has: have a pair of good (hoes for the hfcing ; and down he comes, lays the ealf orthe ground, and tying hishorie to the hedgeruns back, thinking to get the other Ihoe jin which time tern w-ips up the calf anefhoe, and home he comes, demanding biswager, which Ids mailer could not deny,being fo fairly won. ihe poor butcher isturned back to his horic, got only his travefor his pains ; fo miffing his calf he knew no*what to fay or go ; but chinking it had brokethe rope Irom about its tect, and had runinto thw fields, che but :her ipent that day utfearch of it amongft the hedges and ditches,and then returned to rein’s mafrer s at night.ihtsndifig to 00 and fearcli farther for it tbstpext day. giving them a tedious relation howfte came to lofe his calf by a curfed pair oftpoes, which he fceliev^ the devil had drop’dp his \vay, and how he had taken the calf’jind all along with him; expre fling his thank-.iulnefs that the devil was fo honed as toiipare his o'A horfe, when he dole awav his^alf—Next morning Tom fet to work, andipakes a fine white face on the calf with;|halk and water, then brings it out and fsiisI to the butcher ; w^hich was good diverfionjo his malter and other fervants, to fee thebutcher buy his own calf again. No foonerIvas he gone with it, than Tom fays, Now,naftcr, what will you hold but I deal itpom him again, ere he goes two miles off?::no, no, fays his mafter, Til hold no more:xts with you ; but Til give you a {hillingIp you do it- Done, fays Tom, it will coltirou no more ho away he runs a-toot thro*She fields, until he came before the butcher,hard by the place where he dole the calf trom|im the day before ; and 'here he lies bd-|ind tiie hedge,, and cries, Biw. baw, like1 calf. The butcher hearing this, fry ears0 hinvfelf, that there was the calf he had lofthe dav before ; Down he comes, and throws1 he call on the ground : gets in through t iehedge in all hake, thinking he had no more0 do but to take it up ; but as he came inroto time, and always \v; vied fomething, whicithe old woman gave the money to purchaftfor him, until he had got about thirty pound*of her money ; and t^n the v;ould delay thamarriage no longer : Tom Went and toolcjthe old woman and girl a fide, and made hisjapology as foliows : Dear mother, laid heI am very willing to marry your daughteifor I have a great love for her ; but I am torrvery forry, to acquaint you. that I am nota fit match for her. What, fays the oifiwoman, there’s not a fitter match in thworld for my daughter; 1 d'd not think youcountry could allbrd fuch a clever youth awhat I hear you to be; you ftall neiwant gold nor fiiver, nor a good horfe ttide upon ; and when I die, you fhali havmy all. O but mother, fays Tom, thatnot the matter at all, the ftop is this, wne. I was at home in Scotland, I got a ftrokwith a horfe’s foot on the bottom of mbelly, Vhich has quite difabied me belosthat I cannot pdf form a hulband’s duty.-Then the old woman clapt her hands, arfell a crying, G ! if it had been any itnpement but that—but that—but that w ofu’ thawhich gold nor fi'-ver cannot purchale, aiyet the poorefi people, that is, even cornurabeggars have plenty of it — fhe old worn;and her daughter fat crying, and wringirtheir hands, and Tom Rood ana wept, 1.i8>1 one ^art of the hedge, Tom jumps out‘ t ?oother, and gets the calf on his back,bhile the poor butcher fpent his time and la*. our in v?.in, running from hedge to hedge,imci hole to hole, feeking what was not thereIo be found. So the butcher returned to hisiorfe again, and finding his other calf gone,ie concluded it to be done by feme invlfible■ipirit about that fpot of ground ; and fo wenti< tome and raifed a bad report on the devil,lading, he was turned a highwayman, and. tad taken two calves from him So Tom:walking the white face oft the calf; his maf-j er fent the butcher word to come and buy a-[‘Other calf; which he accordingly did a fewlays after, and Tom fold him the fame calf theime: then told him the whole affair as itvas afted, giving him his money again. Sohe butcher got but fun for his trouble.PART V.i. There was an old rich blind woman,who lived hard by. that had a young girl,(her onlv daughter, and ftie fell deep in lovewith l* m, and Tom fell as deep in lovewith the money, but not with tae maid.—The o]d woman bellowed a waft of prefentson Tom, and monnted him like a gentleman;but ftiil he put oft' the marriage from time20he Should get no more money. O mother]fays the daughter, I lT wed with him never]thelefs , I love him fo dearly! No, no, youfooliih girl, would you throw yourfeif away;to marry a man and die a maid; you don’|know the end o! your creation, it is thJenjoyment of a man in bed,' that make!women to marry, which is the greatefl plea*fure in life ; and if you wed with this man,you’ll live and die, and never know it -fHoo,' boo, fays Tom, if I had got money;I needed not have been this way till now —•• Money, you fool faid the old woman, there’snot fuch a thing to be got for money in allEngland. Ay, fays Tom, there’s a Doftotm Newcaftle, will make me as able as anyother man for ten guineas. Ten guineas, faid flie, I’ll give him fifty guineas if he will,but here is twelve, and go to him dire&iy.and know firlf what he can do, and thercome again and wed my child, or fhe and 1wall die both for thv fake —Tom. havin'? nowJ Ogot twelve guineas more of their money, Jmade ad things ready, and next morning early fet out for Newcaftle, but ir.itead of goincto bewcaitie, he came to old Scotland, ancleft Poiiy and her mother to think on him Irabout two Weeks after, when he was noHiktto return, no, nor fo much a a word from hi athe old woman and her daughter got a honeand came to Newcattle in fearch of him, anc21nnt thro* all ths Doctor’s (hops enquiring if|i;h a young mau came th«ie about twovseks ago, on fuch an errand ? which ihe toldSome laughed at her others were likejij kick her cu of doors — lo they had to re-3rn without getting any farther intelligencehim*(2 Now after Tom’s return to Scotland,: got a wife, and took a iitt'e farm nearalkeith, and became a very doufe man forme time following his old bufinefs tnelowping of horfes and cows feeding vealsr fkughter* and the like ie went oneiy to a fair, and bought a fiae cow fromi old woman; but Com juagecl bv the.Iwnefs of the price, that the cow certainly|ad iome fault ; Tom always gave he wife|e other hearty bicker of a;:e ; then fays lie,~ife, the money is yours and the cow isme; ye maun teil me any wee bits of fautsfhe has. Indeed. quo; tne good wiie; iheas nan a lam but ane, anj.it the wanted it,wad neverva paired wi1 her; and what’s that,Tot!wife? laid he* Indeed, laid fhe tae tinnyaft beait fucks ay herlel Hate fays Fomi tiiat oe all, i’ll foon cure ner of «mt —! can ye do't? faid fh.‘: if i had ke..dhat wad a don't, ye wadna gotten her.  |4 well, fays 1cm, I’ll cell you what do :. akethe cow's price I gave you ju;tdo y,22and tye it hard and fait in your napkin aigive it to me through beneath the cow’s warnand I’ll give you the napkin again over tlcow’s back, and 1 11 lay my life for itt thfhe’ii never fuck herfel in my aught. I w|well, faid fhe, I’fe do that an’ there fhounbe witchcraft in’r. So Tom no foonor got'through below the cow’s wame, than he ioces out his money and pu:s it in his own pocet, and gave the wife again her napkin ovithe cow’s back, accordingly as he told he;faying, Now Wife you have your cow and1my money, and fne’ll never fuck herieifin niaught as I told you. O dole ! tried the wii.is that ycur cure ? Ye’ve cheated me, ye’»cheated me. ‘PART VI.I :i. Tom being very fcarce of money oi •time when bis rent was to pay, and thou,he was well acquainted with the butchcin Edinburgh, and tried feverai of them, ynone of them would itnc’ him as much, 1was known to be i'uch a noted (harper : t othipl’s with himldf that he’ll give them :a bite in general, who had rtfuikd him. iin he comes next day., (and alt of them h;heart: of a fine fat calf he had feeenng) atefl^ one of the butchers he was going to fthe fat calf he had at uonr.e. Weil, laid tI23(i >utcber. aijd what will you have for it ? Juft! ive and thirty ^hillings, fays Tom. No, fayshe butcher, by what I hear of it, I’ll give youi hirty. Na, na, fays Tom, you muft remein-•'laer that is not the price of it, but give me'twenty {hillings juft now, and fend out yourlad to-morrow, and we’li perhaps agree aboutit. Thus Foxa went through ten of them inlone day, and got twenty {hillings from eachI of them, and kept his fpeeeh agaiaft the law,efor whatever they offered him for hjs calf, hefold them to remember that was not to be theprice of it, but give me twenty {hillings juft!!now, and fend out your lad on the morrowmorning, and perhaps we’ll agree, was all[ that palled. So Tom came home with his tenpounds, and paid his rent Eady next mor¬ning, one of the butchers feat out his lad toTom for the calf; ami when he was about, amile cut of town, he went to an ale-hocfedoer, and calls for a bicker ot ale,was d: inking it, up comes anotherlad on the fame errand; he beingthe firfl to come and drink, caufed anotherbicker : Then up comes other two on thefame errand " Again fix more, wiucii madeout the ten ; and every one told he was goingto Lothian Tom s for a calf, whifh madethem think Tom had gf» together ail thecalves in the country. So they came to Tom’shome, and everyone called lor his calf, andand as lieDuteher’scalled byhis «ixr, ami Tom had but one calf to serve them aliiwhich he took and shewed them. Now, says hewhoever gives most for it shall have it, or I’ll put ito a roup.—What, said they, our master bought iyesterday : then, says Tom, you would be fools frbuy it to-day, for it is heavy t» carry, and fashionto lead, so you must all go home without it. Nexday Tom got ten summonses, to answer at the instance of the butchers for selling his calf and not delivering it. Tom then goes to Edinburgh, gets thablest lawyer in town for that purpose, and tells hithe whole of what past, from first to last. Then, saithe lawyer, as they cannot prove a bargain, denyou the paying of the money again •, and if you’lgive me the calf I’ll bring you of?: but remembein law there is no point like that of denial. The calf,say- Tom, you shall not want the calf and a stone o£butter to make it ready.—Then the lawyer goes tc4the court, where Tom is called upon, and the lawyer asked the butchers if they could tell the price ofthe calf, or prove the bargain r they answered, Nobut he ordered us to send cut our lads, and wewould agree.—Agree ! said the judge : Why do ysue for a bargain, and have to agree about it yet ? So¬ns '.hey could neither prove the bargain, nor lendingtheir money, they Iqsi the plea.—Then the lav. yer(U hed fom to be sure to send in his calf and but¬ter : Ko, ho, says Tom, you told me the best pointin low was to deny : I’ll sell my calf to them :hatwill give most for i.you have learned melaw, I have learned you roguery ; and that was ai;the Lawyer got of Tom.^ I N I S.s