TIIRDUMFRIES:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERSWITTY AND ENTERTAININGEXPLOITS OFGEORGE BUCHAMIV,COMMONLY CALLEDTHE KING’S FOOE.^ OF SCOTUND ;I ) ■ • OWKs■**'aTHBWITTY EXPLOITS07MR GEORGE IU CIIAMX.PART I.*Ir Georse Buchanan was a Scotsman born, andhough of mean parentage, made great progress insarning. As for his understanding and ready wit hexcolled all men then alive in the a^o, that ever pro-■osed questions to him. Ho was servant or teachero king James the VI., and one of his private coun-ellors ; but publicly acted as his fool.1. It happened one day that a young airy nobleman?ent into the king’s garden to pull a flower for a youngady he fancied; George followed at a distance, sovhen the young man found a flower he fancied, he?ould not pull it himself, but to find it again, withoutarther search, he covered it with his hat and went.way for his sweetheart. No sooner was he gone, butip goes George, lifts his hat, and pulls the flower, thenlascs himself on the spot, covers it with the hat again,nd away he goes. Scon after, the young gentlemaneturned, leading his sweetheart to pull the floweridow the hat; but as soon as he lifted the hat, andaw what was below it, he looked like a fool; and the4.kdy flying in a passion sots OS', and would norer oo»»tenance him any more. The young gentleman bein*sadly vexed at this affront given to him by Georgesent him & challenge to fight him, appointing day amplace where they were to meet. Being to fight on horseback, George gets an old stiff horse, and for harnessingcovers him about with blown bladders, with smalstones in each, without either sword or spear; an'away to the field he goes, where the duel was appointedSo when George saw his enemy coming against himall in glittering armour, armed with sword and speathe made up to him with all the speed his horse couhcarry him ; when the small stones in the bladders madsuch a rattling noise, that the gentleman’s fine geldimwould not stand the battle, but ran away, and threvhis master to the ground; which caused all the spectutors to laugh, and say, the gentleman was more foethan George. The gentleman being still more enrageat this second affront, he would fight with George o;foot; but his friends persuaded him that it would bno honour for him to fight and kill the king’s fool; anfar less to be killed by the fool. So they were adviseboth to agree. But the gentleman would try anotheexploit with George, for to have it said he was stilthe cleverest man, vizTo hold him a jumping-bovpublicly, the next day thereafter. With all mheart, says George, and we will end in and about wherwo began, they not knowing his meaning in this. Thplace and hour being set where they were to mecnext morning. George, in the night time, causeddeep pit to be made, and the earth of it carried awaythen filled it up with dung from a p , and covereit over with green turf, that it might not bo known bthe other ground. So, according to promise, they botmet in the morning against the appointed time, ^ovaGeorge being the oKlest man, and by them aounted the-greatest fool, the young spark permitted him to jumpfirst, which he according to order did, and jumpedwithin a foot of the place where the ground was falsi¬fied. The young man seeing this, made his perform¬ance with groat airs, and all his might, so that hejumped a foot over George, but, up to the oxtersamong clean dung! whereat, the whole multitude ofspectators cried out with huzzas and laughter. Nowsays George, I told you we would end in and aboutwhere we began, and that is in clean dirt.2. On a time after this, the king and his court woregoing into the country, and they would have Georgeto ride before them in the fool’s dress ; wherounto heseemed unwilling, but it was the king’s pleasure. SoGeorge was mounted upon an old horse, with a pair ofold riven boots, the heels hanging down, and a palmercoat, patched over with pictures of divers kinds.George rode before them in this posture which causedgreat laughter and diversion, until they came to an Inn;where they alighted to dine, and in the time they woreat dinner, George went into stables, and with a kuifecut all their horses’ chafts, not sore, but so as theymight bleed. Now, as soon as dinner was over, amithey mounted on their horses again, George ridingbefore them as usual, in his palmer coat and old boots,they began to make their game of him: then Georgeturning about suddenly, and clapping his hands witha loud laughter, the king asked him what made himlaugh so ! Laugh, says George, how can I but laugh,when horses cannot hold their peace f O my sovereign,^ays ho, dent you see how your horses have rent theirchafts laughing at my old boots! Then, every manlooking at his horses mouth, they were all in a rageagainst George. The king causing George to dismountdirectly, and charged him never to let him see his faceon English ground. Now George, knowing thatnothing could reconcile the king at this time, he cameaway to Scotland, and caused them to make a pair ofgreat boots, and put a quantity of Scottish earth ineach of them, and away he goes for London to see theking once more. Ho hearing the king and his court'was to pass through a town, George places himself upin an old window, and sets up his bare a—, to the kingand his court as they passed. The king being greatlyamazed to see such an unusual honour done to him,was curious to know the performer ; so he called untohim desiring him to come down ; and finding it to beGeorge, sir, says the king, did not I charge you neverto let me see your face again ? True my sovereign,says George, for which cause I let you see my a—.But, says the king, you was never to come on Englishground again. Neither I did says, George, pulling offhis boots before the king, behold, my Sovereign, itsall Scots earth 1 stand upon. Tho king and his courtbeing greatly diverted with this merry joke. Georgewas admitted again to the king’s favour.3. After this there arose a debate betwixt the kingand the queen about votes in the parliament; as the.king had two votes, the queen would have one, andwould needs be a parliamenter, or no peace withoutpreferment. This matter was committed to Georgeby the king ; so it was agreed among tho parliamenters*that the queen should be admitted into parliament fora day. Accordingly she came, and was received withall the honour and congratulations that was duo andbecoming her high station : but before any matter of*consequence was brought to tho board, George seatedhimself hard by the queen’s seat; all being silent, herose up very quickly, lifted one of his legs, let *7loud f 1, which set the whole house a-laughing ;whereat the queen was greatly offended, and said, gotake the rogue and and hang him, to which Georgeanswered, a fine parliamenter indeed, to hang a manfor a sinless infirmity, and that’s a f 1. The queenbeing enraged at the affront put on her first appearancein parliament, went off in a passion, and never wouldcountenance them more. But yet to be revenged onGeorge, she would never give the king rest, till hedelivered George into her hands, that he might bepunished at her pleasure ; which the king accordinglycommanded to be done, knowing that George wouldrescue himself by some intrigue or other. No soonerwas he delivered into her hands, but she and hermaids of honour pronounced his doom, which was asfollows:—As he had affronted the queen among sogreat an equipage, who ought to be honoured in chiefabove all women in the nation, that ho should bostoned to death by the hands of women. Now thotime being come that he had to die, according to ap¬pointment, ho was taken into a park, where a greatnumber of women were waiting for him, with theiraprons full of stones, to fall upon him, and put himto daath according to the queen's appointment.seorge’s speech to his executioners.Here’s a female band with bags of stonesTo kill a man for rumple groans :I’m clean of rapine, blood, and thefts.Could I convert my f s to rifts?Since I, the first for f -s do die,Close up the place from whence they fly,To commit my crime, I think ye’ll scarce,If once you do cork up your a—.And now since women stones do carry,Men need not in tho world tarry.Judge if such women be ehaste complete,With forty stones between their f— ;But since ’tis so ye will come on,The greatest w throw the first stone.When he had ended with these words, “ The greatestw  throw the first stone,” every one put it toanother to cast the first stone, but knowing they wouldattain the character of a w for so doing, theyall refused till the dying hour was past, and then hetook a protest against them, and by that means hogained his life. After this, he was admitted into thoqueen’s favour and presence, and attended tho courtas formerly.4. About this time, tho French king, in order topick a quarrel with the court of Britain, sent a letterto the king, desiring it to be read before tho parlia¬ment : and the writing was as follows ; “ Will I come ?Will I come ? Will 1 come This letter being readbefore the king and his courtiers, they all concludedthat tho French king designed to invade England ;herefore they ordered an answer to be wrote, upbraid¬ing him with the breach of peace, and putting him injnfnd of tho last treaty. The answer being road beforethe king and his nobles, they all agreed that it shouldbe sent off. But George, smiling, and shaking Lishead, cried out,Many men, many minds.Who knows what he designs ?Then they asked George what tho French king meantby such a letter ? to which ho answered, I suppose howants an invitation to come over and dine with you,and then return in a friendly manner; but you aregoing to charge him with a breach of peace, before hohas given any signal of offence or war: his letter is in¬deed dark and mystical, but send him an answer ac-9aeording to his question. Now, George being orderedto write the answer, it was as follows s—And ye come And ye come—And ye come.” This being sent tothe French king, he admired it beyond expressionsaying, it was an answer more valiant and daring thanhe expected. So the enmity he intended was extin¬guished and turned into love.5. It happened once, that a malignant party in Scot¬land sent up a groat spokesman to the king and par¬liament, for the reducing of the church; George hear¬ing of his coming, went away and met him on thebridge, and the salutation that he gave him was thecutting off his head, and throwing it over the bridge !Ho then ran to the king with all his might, and felldown before him, pleading most heartily for a pardon,or without it he was a dead man. The king mostseriously asked him what he had done now ? To whichhe answered, he had only thrown the Scots Bishop’shat over the bridge, which made the king to laugh, tohear him ask pardon for such a small fault; but he hadno sooner got the pardon sealed by the king’s hand,than he said, indeed my sovereign, I threw his hat overthe bridge, but his head was in it. O Geordie, Geordie,says the king, thou wilt never give over till thou behanged.6. A nobleman in England agreed with the king howto put a trick upon George, to try his manly courage,in sending him to a certain place for a bag of money.On his way home, through St. James’park, they causeda sturdy fellow to ge and set upon him by the way, andtake the money from him. The fellow being armedwith sword and pistol, came up quickly, and attackedGeorge with these words, You, sir, deliver what moneyyou hare, or you are a dead man. To which Georgeanswered, tir, I have some indeed, but tiinotmy own,in>and therefore do not like to part with it: nerertheleissince being determined as you are, to exchange blowsfor it, pray dome the favour to fire your pistol throughthe flap of my cloak, that the owners may see I havebeen in danger of my life before I parted with it,which ho accordingly did. No sooner had he fired thepistol, than George whipt out his hanger from belowhis cloak, and with one stroke cut off his right handfwherein he held his sword, so that both his sword andthe hand fell to the ground; but George lifted hishand and carried it to the king. No sooner did hecome before them, but they asked him, saying, well,George, did you see any body to trouble you by theway ? None, said he, but one fellow, who was goingto take the money from me, but I made him give mehis hand be would not do the like again. You did?,says the fellow’s master. Yes, I did, says George; letwork boar witness, throwing down the fellow’s hand onthe table before them all.7. Now, this last exploit of George’s caused many ofthe English to hate him; and, among the rest, a youngnobleman fell a joking of George, saying, he would beas famous a champion for Scotland as Sir WilliamWallace was. Ay, ay, says George, Wallace was abrave man in his time.—True indeed, says the youngnobleman, but when he came to London, we did himall manner of justice, and for honour of the Scots, wohave his effigy in the s  to this very day. Anddo you know the reason of that, says George ? No, Idont, says he. Well, I’ll tell you, says George : ho wassuch a terror to Englishmen, when he was alive, thatthe sight of his picture yet makes them p them¬selves. The English took this answer ns a great affront*and forthwith caused Wallace’s picture te be tako*> •nt•f all thair s——.11a8. A youug English girl falling iu loxa wiHi ftmau, she petitioned him several times for to marry her;which he refused. So, to be revenged on him, shewent to a Justice, and swore a rape against him, whichis death by the law. George hearing of this, went tothe prison where the young man was, and instructedhim how to behave before the judge. So in the timeof the trial George came in while the judge was cryingto the man, but never a word could he get him toanswer, to tell whether ho was guilty or not. Afterthe justice had given him over for deftf and dumb*others fell a shouting in his oars, but never a word howould speak. Then the judge, perceiving George,called him, saying, George, do you know what is thematter with this man? Yes, I do very well, says GeorgoWhat is it? says the judge. Why, says George, thewoman made such a noise and crying when ho was: ravishing her, it has put the poor man quite deaf, Lassure you. Is it so? says the justice. No, no, say*woman, my Lord Justice, you may believe me, I layas mute as a lamb, and never spoke a word all thetime. Very well confessed, said the justice, and youhave sworn a rape upon him. Take the w toprison, and let the poor man go about his basinos*,and so it ended.PART II.George happened one time to be in company with abishop, and so they fell to dispute anent education,and he blanked the bishop remarkably, and the bishophimself owned he was worsted.—Then one of the com¬pany addressed himself to him in these word: thou,Scot, said ho, should not have left thy country. Forwhat ? *ays ho, because thon has carried all the wisdom12tfcatisinit thither with thoe. No, no, says he, tb«ishepherds in Scotland will dispute with any bishop iniLondon, and exceed them very far in education. Thebishops then took this as an affront, and several noble¬men affirmed it to bo as the Scot had said : bets were;laid on each side, and three of the bishops were chosen,and sent away to Scotland to dispute it with the shep¬herds, accompanied with several others, who were to;bear witness of what they should hear pass betweenthem. Now, George knowing which way they went,immediately took another road and was in Scotland 'before them. Ho then made an acquaintance with ashepherd on the border whose pasture lay on the way-side where the bishops were to pass : and there homounted himself in shepherd’s dress : and when hosaw the bishops appear, ho conveyed his Hock to theroadside, and fell a chanting at a Latin ballad. Whenthe bishops came up to George, one of them asked himin French what o’clock it was? To which he answered,in Hebrew, it is directly about the time of the day itwas yesterday at this time. Another asked him, inGreek, what countryman he was? To which he an¬swered, in Flemish, if ye knew that, you would be aswise as myself. A third asked him, in Dutch, wherewas you educated ? To which ho answered, in Earse,herding my sheep between this and Lochaber. Thisthey desired him to explain into English, which heimmediately did. Now, said they oneto another, we neednot proceed any farther. What, says George, are youbutchers ? I’ll sell you a few sheep. To this they madeno answer, but went away shamefully, and said, theybelieved the Scots had been through all the nations intho world for their education, or the devil had taughttlaom. Now, when George had ended this disputewith the bishops, ho stripped off his shepherd’s dress*13and up through England he goes, with all the hasteimaginable, so that he arrived at the place from whencethey set out, three days before the judges, and wentevery day asking if they were come, so that ho mightnot be suspected. As soon as they arrived, all thatwere concerned in the dispute, and many more, camecrowding in, to hear what news from the Scottishshepherds, and to know what was done. No soonerhad the three gentlemen declared what had past be¬tween the bishops and the shepherds, whom they foundon the Scots border, but the old bishop made answer,and think you, said he, that a shepherd could answerthese questions ? It has been none else but the devil;for the Scots ministers themselves could not do it;they are but ignorant of such matters, a parcel efbeardless boys. Then George thought it was time totake speech in hand. Well, my lord bishop, saysGeorge, you call them a parcel of ignorant beardlessboys. You have a great long beard yourself, my lordbishop, and if grace wore measured by beards, youbishops and the goats would have it all, and that willbe quite averse to Scripture. What, says the bishop,are you a Scot? Yes, says George, 1 am a Scot. Well,says the bishop, and what is the diflforonco between aScot and a sot ? Nothing at present, says George, butthe breadth of the table, there being a table betwixtthe bishop and George. So the bishop went off in ahigh passion, while the whole multitude were like tosplit their jaws with laughter.2. About this time there was aa act of parliamentfor the benefit of murderers, that any person, who com¬mitted murder, if they forfeited five hundred marks,which went under the name of Kinboot, because, somuch of this wont to the murdered person's nearestrelations, as the price of blood, the murderer got a14remit. Now Georgo knowing this to bo contrary toMoses’ law-s, and was very much grieved to see so manypardons scaled by the king’s hand for murder, almostone every week; it being so usual for the king to sub¬scribe them, that he would not read them, nor enquirewhat they were; for which cause, George writes a writto the crown, and sent it to the king to be subscribed,which ho actually did, and never looked what it was,returned it to George. No sooner had he received it,but ho goes to the king and told him it was not timefor him to bo sitting there, whereat, the king greatlyamazed, started up ; then George in great haste, setshimself down in the king’s chair, forthwith declaringhimself king, saying, you who washing must bo my fool,for I am now the wisest man. The king at this wasgreatly offended, until George showed him his seal andsuperscription. But from that day forth, the kingknew what ho subscribed.8. The next pardon that came to be sealed by theking, was a gentleman who had killed two men before,and had got pardons for them by money. This beingthe third, the king was very silent in looking over thepetition : Georgo standing by, asked the king what hewas going to seal now ? To which he answered, it is aremit for a man who has killed three men at sundrytimes, 1 gave him two remits before. O! says George ;he has killed but one man. And who killed the othertwo ? says the king. You did, says Georgo, for if youhad given him justice when ho had killed the first, hohad killed no more. When the king heard these wordsho threw down the pen, and declared that sueh an actto save a murderer, should be null ever after by him.4. One day, Georgo having no money, he goes awayand gets a pick and a spade, and then falls a digging ata corner of the king’s palace; which tho king perceivingliafr#m his window, calls what he was wanting there ?Are you going to undermine my house, and make itfall? No, my sovereign, says George, but it is verilyI reported that there is plenty of money about this house,and where can it be ? says George, 1 cannot find it, forit is not within the house to do me service, then surelyit must be below it. O George, says the king, that isa crave after the new fashion, what money you wantI’ll order for you. Then, my sovereign, says George,I’ll dig no more.5. One time George being in the country, he cameto an inn, where he alighted to refresh himself and hishorse. The innkeeper charged him double price forevery thing he called for.—George never grumbled atthis, but gave him all demands, and away he goes onhis journey. At the inn where ho quartered the fol¬lowing night he was used after the same manner, if notworse. Having little farther to go, he returned nextday, and came that night to the inn where he refresh¬ed himself the day before. So. when he alighted, theboy asked him what he would give his horse ? Whatyou will, said ho. When he had gone to his room, thewaiter enquired what he would have to drink ? Whatyou will, says he. The master of the inn came intohis room before supper, and enquired what he wouldhave for supper? What you will landlord, says he.After supper, and a hearty bowl to put all over, hewent to bed. On tho morrow, he rose very early, andcalled for the boy to make ready his horse in all haste,for he was designed to mount and go directly. Soonafter, he went into the stable where tho boy was, callingfor his horse, when he mounted with all the speed hocould, and gave the boy a piece of money, saying, herenay boy, this is for taking care of my horse; I havepaid f*r all I have ordered in the house, and off ho16goes. About mid-day ho alighted again at an inn t*refresh himself and his horse, and there he chanced tobo in company with his other landlord where he wasthe night before, and charged him with the doublereckoning: so he addressed himself to himself to him .in the following manner Sir, says ho, I do believe Iwas in your house yesternight; O yes, Sir, says he, Imind of you pretty well. And where was youlast night? ,Last night, says George, I was in one of the finest inns,and the civilest landlord I ever had in my lifer theybrought all things that I stood in need of unto me, with¬out calling for them ; and when I came off this morning,they charged mo nothing, and I paid nothing but six¬pence to the boy for dressing my horse.—Blood andwounds? said the old fellow, then I’ll go there thisnight. Ay, says George, do ; and mind this, when theyask you what you will have for yourself and your horse,answer nothingbut What you will, Sir. Georgesmilingwithin himself, to think how he had got the one extor¬tioner to take amends of the other. So this innkeepersot off on his journey, and rode so late that night thathe might reach the cheap inn, that most of the peoplewere gone to bed before he arrived. As soon as hedismounted from his horse, the boy enquired at him,What shall 1 give to your horse, master? To whichho answered, What you will, boy. The boy hearingthis, runs away, (leaving him and his horse to stand atthe door,) upstairs to his master’s room, crying, master,master. What-you-will is come again :—O the rogue,cries he, where is he?—I’ll cane him—I’ll what youwill him by and by. Then to him he runs with hiscane, licks, and kicks him until he was scarce able tomount his horse, and would give him no entertainmentthere, which caused him to ride the whole of a coldwinter night, after he had got his bones all beat anda17cruised. So the one pursued the other as a murderer ;ind his defence was, that ho was a cheat and a scorncr>f his house, until the truth was found out.6. About this time, tho French king sent, andiemanded from the king of England, three men ofEfferent qualities. Tho first was to be a mightystrong man ; tho second a very wise man ; and thothird, a very great fool; so that he might have nonoin all France to match them. So, accordingly therewere two men chosen ; the one a strong man, and thoother a very wise man, but George was to act as thefool; nevertheless he was the teacher of the other two.On their way to France George aaked the strong man*what will you answer the French king, when ho asks ifyou he a strong man ? Why, says he, I’ll say 1 am.Then says George, he’ll possibly get a stronger manthan you, who will kill you, ami affront your country :what shall I say then, said the strong man ?—Why,says George, tell him you are strong enough untried.Then says he to the wise man, and what will you sayto the king when he asks if you are a wise man ?—Why lil tell him I am, and answer him all thequestions I know :—Very well, says George, but whatif he asks you what you do not know? then you’llaffront your country, and be looked upon as a greaterfool than me; well, and what shall I answer then ;said tho wise man. Why, says George, tell him he isonly a wise man that can take care of himself : and 1shall come in after you, and take care of you altogether-As soon as they arrived at the king of France’s palace,the king sent for them, to try them The strong manwas first called for, and in he went; then the kingasked him if he was a strong man ? to which he answer¬ed, O king ! I am strong enough untried. Very well*said the king. After him tho wise man was allied ;18and the king asked him if he was a wise man ? towhich he answered, he is only a wise man that can take >care of himself. Very well, says the king. On which, ‘George pushed open the door, and in ho went with -loud laughter, and p  directly in his Majesty’sface, which blinded both his eyes, and put the whole jjcourt in amaze. Now, now, said feis Majesty, it is true 'enough what the wise man says, for if I had taken careof myself, I need not have been p  upon by theEnglish fool. O ho, says George, fools always striveto make fools of others, but wise men make fools ofthemselves. By this, his Majesty seemed to think hewas made the greatest fool, and charged them to gohome, for he wanted no more of England’s strength,wisdom, or folly.7. One night, a Highland drover chanced to havea drinking-bout with an English captain of a ship,and at last they came to be very hearty over theircups, so that they called in their servants to have ashare of their liquor. The drover’s servant lookedlike a wild man, going without breeches, stockings,or shoes, not so much as a bonnet on his head, with along peeled rung in his hand. The captain asked thedrover, how long it is since he catcbed him ? He an¬swered, it is about two years since I hauled him outof the sea with a net, and afterwards ran into themountains, where I catched him with a pack of hounds.The captain believed it was so, but says he, I have aservant the best swimmer in the world. O but, saysthe drover, my servent will swim him to death, No, hewill not, says the captain, I’ll lay two hundred crownson it. Then says the drover, I’ll hold it one to one,and staked directly, the day being appointed whentrial was to be made. Now the drover, when he cameto hisssolf, thinking oh what a bargain he had madsdid not know what to do, knowing very well that hisservant could swim none. He hearing of Georgebeing in town, who was always a good friend to Scots¬men, he went unto him and told him the whole story,and that he would be entirely broke, and durst neverreturn home home to his own country, for ho was sureto lose it. Then George called the drover and hismen aside and instructed them howto behave, so thatthey should bo safe and gain two. So accordinglythey met at the place appointed. The captain’s manstript directly and threw himself into the sea, takinga turn until the Highlandman was ready, for thedrover took some time to put his servant in order.After he was stripped, his master took his plaid, androlled a kebbuck of cheese, a big loaf, and a bottle ofgin in it, and this he bound on his shoulders, givinghim directions to tell his wife and children that hewas well, and £.0 be sure he returned with an answeragainst that day se’nnight. As he went into the sea(he looked back to his master, aud called out to himfor his claymore. And what waits he for now? saysthe captain’s servant. He wants his sword sayshis master. His sword, says the fellow: What ishe to do with a sword ? Why, says his master,if he meets a whale or a monstrous beast, it is todefend his life: I know he will have to fight his waythrough the north seas, ere he get to Lochaber. Thencried the captain’s servant, I’ll swim none with him, ifhe take his sword. Ay, but says his master, you shall,or lose your wager; take you another sword with you.No, says the fellow I never did swim with a sword,nor any man else, that ever I saw or heard of, I knownot but that wild man will kill me in the deep water ;I would not for the whole world, venture myself withhim and a sword. The eaptain seeing his servant20afraid to renture, or if he did, he wtmld never see himagain alive; therefore he desired an agreement withtho drover, who at first seemed unwilling, but th#captain putting it in his will, the drover quit him for ■half the sum. This he came to through George’s jadvice.8. George was met one day by three bishops, who :paid him the following compliments; says tho first,good-morrow, father Abraham; says the second, good- |morrow father Isaac ; says the third, good-morrow -father Jacob. To which ho replied, I am neitherfather Abraham, father Isaac, nor father Jacob but Iam Saul, tho Son of Kish, sent out to seek my father’sasses, and, lo ! I have found three of them. Whichanswer fully convinced tho bishops that they hadmistaken their man.9. A poor Scotchman dined one day at a public housein London upon eggs and not having tho money topay, got credit till he should return. The man beinglucky in trade, acquired vast riches; and after someyears happening to pass that way, called at the housewhere he was owing the dinner of eggs. Havingcalled for the innkeeper, he asked him what he had topay for tho dinner of eggs he got from him such atime? The landlord seeing him now rich,gave him abill of several pounds ; telling him, as his reason forso extravagant a charge, that these eggs had they beenhatched, would have been chickens : and these layingmore eggs would have been more chickens; and so onmultiplying the eggs and their product, till such timeas their value amounted to the sum charged. Theman refusing to comply with this demand, wascharged before a judge. He then made his case knownto George, his countrymaa, who promised to appearia tho hour of cause, which ho accordingly did, all in4?21a sweat, with a great basket of boiled pease, wbidifi&ppearonce surprised the judge, who asked him what(j he meant by these boiled pease? says George I amgoing to sow them. When will they grow ? said thejudge. They will grow, said George, when sodden oggsgrow chickens. Which answer convinced the judgeof the extravagance of the innkeeper’s demand, andthe Scotchman was acquitted for twopence halfpenny.George, one day easing himself at the corner of ahedge, was espied by an English squire who began tomock him asking him why he did not keckle like thehens? But George, whose wit was always ready, toldhim he was afraid to keckle, lest he should come andsnatch up the egg, which rebuff made the squire walkoff as mute as a fish.George was professor of the College of St Andrews,and slipt out one day in his gown and slippers, andwent on his travels through Italy, and several otherforeign coutries and after seven years, returned withthe same dress he went off in ; and entering the college’took possession of his seat there; but the professor inhis room quarreling him for so doing. Ay, saysGeorge, it is a very odd thing that a man cannot takea walk out in his slippers, but another will tako up hisseat. And so set the other professor about his busi¬ness.Two drunken fellows one day fell a beating one an¬other on the streets of London, which caused a greatcroud of people to throng together to see what it was.A tailor being at work up in a garret, about three orfour stories high, and he hearing the noise in the street,looking over the window, but could not see them ; hebegan to stretch himself, making a long nock, untilhe fell down out of the window, and alighted on an oldman who was walking on the street; the poor tailor52wa» as ore afraid than hurt, but the man ho foil on dieddirectly. His son caused the tailor to be apprehended,and tried for the murder of his father; the jury couldnot bring it in wilful murder, neither could they alto,gether free the tailor; the jury gave it over to thejudges, and the judges to the king. The king askedGeorge’s advice in this hard matter. Why, saysGeorge, I will give you my opinion in a minute ; youmust cause the tailor to stand in the street, where theold gentleman was when he was killed by the tailor, andthen let the old gentleman’s son the tailor’s adversaryget up to the window from whence the tailor fell, andjump down, and so kill the tailor as ho did his father.The tailor’s adversary hearing this sentence past, hewould not venture to jump over the window, and sothe tailor got clear off.George went into the mint one day, when theywere melting gold. One of them asked George, if hewould have a hat full of Gold, f George readilyaccorded, but it brunt the bottom out of his hat, asthey knew it would, and for the bout foiled George.However, George, to be up with them, bought a finelarge hat, and caused a plate of copper to be putbetwixt the hat and the linen; and returning next daythey jestingly asked him, if he would have another hatfull of gold ; He said he would : They gave it red hotand George now laughed at them in turn ; tellingthem, that his new hat was a good one, and stood firebetter than the old one, and so carried it off honestly,and being afterwards prosecuted for to return it, heexcused himself, telling thojudge, that he took nothingbut what was given him, and therefore ho was honour¬ably acquitted, and the other heartly laughed at.George being now far advanced in years, and beingweary of great fatigue and folly oftho court of fashions.aI23a shfei t time before bis death, he had a great desire tevisit bis native country, and the place of his nativity.Therefore he petitioned th.e king for permission to doso which was granted. So he set out for Scotland,and went to the parish of Buchanan, in Dumbartonshire, where he visited all his relations and friends —But George staying longer from court than the timeallowed, the king sent him several messages to return,to which he returned no answer. At last the kingsent him a letter threatening, that if he did not appearbefore him in the space of twenty days he would sendhis Lyon Heralds for him; to which George returnedthe following answer.My honour’d Liege, and sovereign King,Of your boasting great I dread nothing :On your feud or favour I’ll fairly venture ;Or that day I’ll be where few kings enter.And also gave him many good admonitions and direefc-ions concerning the govermeut of his kingdom and thowell doing of his soul ; which drew tears from thakiag’s eyes when ho read it.WILL SCOTTA celebrated attendant upon tho Sheriff, well knownfor his activity in the execution of his orders, as wellas for taking a bit comfortable guzzel which financeswould afford it, was one Sabbath day snugly seatedin the pew behind the Bailies at church. Will hadnot been there long till he was soon lull’d into sweetslumbers, and fancied himself seated along with hiscompanions over a good Imperial Half-mutchkin, andin a short time the reckoning came a-paying, whenSsome of the party insisted it was already paid; how¬ever, Will happened not to be of that opinion, andtrue to his integrity, bawled out with all his might in .the midst of the sermon, “ No, no, by my faith it’s nopay’t, we have had just a’e half-mutchkin, an’ twa jbottles o’ ale and there’s no a fardin o’t pay’t.GRAVE-DIGGER OF SORN.The Grave-digger of Sorn, Ayrshire, was as selfishand as mean a sinner as over handled mattock, orcarried mortcloth. He was a quarrelsome and dis¬contented old man, with a voice like the whistle ofthe wind thro’ a key-hole. On a black Sunday after¬noon in the country, an acquaintance from a neigh¬bouring parish accosted him one day, and asked howthe world was moving with him, “ Oh very puirly, sir,very puirly indeed,” was the answer, “ the yard hasdone naething ava for us this summer, if ye like tobelieve me, I havna buired a levin’ soul this saxweeks.”»mis.