FLOWERSjV OF THEFOREST.To which are added,THE B.\TTLE OF FLOWDENHILE;The Soldier’s Adieu.Oh ! the Moment was Sad,BEGONE DULL CARE.Prir.ttd Vy Q. MUW:—at wWr SJi p may be hid, a 'ar *y"tf'Pampit'tts, SaHadi, Caildren'i Bonk., PiAtircs, Catecliif. , 5^c,WHOLES «*d R«TATL.OF SCOT'-•'KSl( * )Flowers of the Forest.I’VE seen the smiling of fortune beguiling jI’ve felt all its favours, and found its'decay ;'o./eet was its b I effing, kind its careffing.But now it is fled—fled far away.I've seen the foreft adorned the foremoft.With flowers of the faireft, moftpleasani.and gay ;Sae bonny was their blooming, their scent,the air perfuming.But now they are withered, and weededaway.I’ve seen the morning with gold the hill:adorning,And loud tempeft ftorming before thtmid-day;I’ve seen Tweed’s fllvcr dreams fliining irthe sunny beams.Glow drumly and dark as they roll'd ontheir way.O fickle fortune ! why thii cruel sporting !O why ftill perplex us poor sens of a day?Nac mair your smiles can cheer me, naemair your frowns can fear me,For the flowers of the foreil are witheredaway.The Battle of Flowdeuhill.I’VE heard of a lilting at our ewes milking,Lafles a lilting before the break of day;But now there’s a moaning on ilka greenloaning.That our braw forefters are a* wede away,1At bughts in the morning, nae blythe ladsare scorning.The lafles are lonely, dowie, and wac ;Nae daffin, nae gabbin, but fighing andtabbing.Ilk ane lifts her leglin and hies her away.At e’en at the gloamin, nae swankies areroaming,’Mongft flacks with the lafles at bogle toplay, 7( 4 ) .But ilk anc fiti dreary, lamenting her deary.The flowen of the foreft that are wedeaway.At har’ft, at the fheering, nae younkers arejearing.The ban’fter* are runkled, lyart, and;At a fair, or a preaching, nae wooing, naefleecing.Since our braw forefters are a wede away.O dool for the order, fent our lads to theborder !The Englilh, for ance, by guile gat theday ;The flowers of the foreft, that ay (hone theforenioft.The prime of our land lies cauld in the clay.We’ll hear n?.e mair lilting at the ewesmilking.The women and bairns are dowie andwae.Sighing and moaning on ilka green loaning.Since our braw forefters are a’ wede away#( 5 )The Soldier’s Adieu*j! A DIEU ! adieu ! my only life,‘ honour calls me from thee !'^member thou’it a (oldier’s wife,Thofe tears but ill become thee.Vhat tho* by duty I am call’dWhere thund’ring cannons rattle,Vhere valour’s felf might Hand appall’dIjVhen on the wings of thy dear love.To heaven abovefhy fervent orifons are flown jThe tender pray’r t ,Thou put’ll up there,i hall call a guardian angel down.To watch me in the battle.i 'ly lafety thy fair truth fhall bei As fword and buckler ferving ;\Ay life Ihall be more dear to me,i Becaufe of thy preserving;i.et peril come, let horror threat.( 6 ^I fearlefs feek the conflift’s heat.Assur’d, when on the wings of love? |To heaven above, &c.Enough witli that benignant fmileSome kindred god infpired thee.Who faw thy bofom void of guile.Who wonder’d and admir’d thee.I go, affured, my life, adieu !Tho* thund’ring cannons rattle ;Tho’ murd’ring carnage ftalk in view.When on the wings of thy true love.To heaven above, &c.Oh ! the Moment was Sad#OH ! the moment was fad when my lotand I parted.Savournna deligh Ihighan oh !As I kifs’d off her tears, I was nigh brokehearted,Savournna deligh (highan eh !Wan was hei' check which hung on mfhoulder,Damp was her hand no marble was coldcf elt that I never again fliould tjehold her,Savournna deligh fliighan ph !fhen the word of command put our meninto motion,Savouinna, 6tc.buckled my khapfack'to crofs the wideocean.fnoaicrSavonrnna, See.ilk were our troops all roaring like tlibrt-der,ieas’d with the voyage, impatient for piun-,^er> I |1 €J ;l b .Aly bosom' with grief was a’moft torn afnn-der,Savournna, Sic.(png I fought for my country, far, far frommy true love,| Savournna, &c.Ill my pay and my booty 1 hoarded for youlove,3 Savournna, Sec.Jeace was proclaim’d, cfcap’d from thedaughter,(Landed at home my fwcct girl l fought her.r 8 > „But, forrcw alas! her cold grave hadiriToflVn twrjool isvan risn'! ’ 1brought her.Savournna', &c.Begone Dull Care.fvi// *jlBEGONE dull care, I prithee begonfrom me.Begone dull care, you and I can neveagree ;Long time thou haft been tarrying here.And fain thou wouldft me kill, ,. . JBut I trow dull care, thou never Ihalt i'.avjthy will.Too much care will make a young man grajAnd roo much care will turn an old manfjclay :My wife lhall dance, and 1 will fing,So merrily pafs the day,For 1 hold it one of the wifeft things, Ju To drive dull care away.FINIS.