THE HISTORYABRAHAM, ISAAC, & JACOB, |EMBELLISHED WITH CUTS;TO WHICH IS ADDEDAN ACCOUNT OF JONAH’S MISSIONTO THENINEVITES.. GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.mYfiOT3in SHT(aooAi a ,0M8i {mkm. btuo utiw aaiigujaai^oaa<!ii si iidihw ot!S0!E?'f1 E'HA^Dl ^0 TKU000A KAjcht ot.gaTiva/ir/i| k=*?zi?v 'JiST!I' y-^ i': Y/OOSAJO ..8 a :i j j a 8 ;i o o n 3 n t h o t a .i t x i ji *1raBEsg5&&&gs9BniH,5i3'Sarah promised a Sow.Hagar being urned to Abram’s bouse, soon1# bore a son, who was called Isbmael. Thirteen yearsI after, God appeared to Abraham to renew his cpye-nant, and instituted circumcision as a tpken of thocovenant, and promised him a son who should bothe father of many kings. Abraham laughed tothink that Sarah, ninety years old, should bear. Awhile after, as Abraham was sitting in the tent doorii he saw three men coming, and as his charity sufforVi ed none to pass without a refreshment, ho i^n to1tt^eet them. After they had eaten, they as|.ed for1 Sarah, when the men, (who were angels) assuredhim that she would bear a son. Sarah overheardwhat was said, and laughed within herself, ^ayiq r,[After I am waxed old, shall I have pleasure—myLord being old also. The angels reproved Sarahfor laughing, which she denied: they stated notldh'gwas too hard for the Lord. They then rose ’.•[>,and Abraham with them went on their way.& 6&f)fran’r<TLot entertains tv/o Angels at Sodom.After God’s promise to Abraham, that Sarahwould shortly bear him a son, he was warned that ;Sodom was to be destroyed. Lot, seeing two angelscoming to Sodom, ran to meet them, and entreatedthem to lodge with him. The angels at first re¬fused, but Lot earnestly pressed them to como in. f .*The men of Sodom surrounded the houtse, and de-, ■manded of Lot to deliver up the men, that they might' !satisfy their lust with^them. lie resisted them withall his powers, but still they insisted. Lot, piercedwith sorrow, was on the point of delivering them up, ,had not the angels put forth their hand, and pullediiim in ; and having shut the door, they smote the jj'1men that were without with blindness : yet with all uthis it reclaimed not tlieir fury ; for they still sought .|to satisfy themselves, and they laboured hard tq find jUi© doc/ to effect their purpose.me angel haying warned Lot of his danger of' remaining among the Sodomites, hastened him todepart from the city .with his wife and two daugh-; !ers> that .^ey might not he consumed. They laid■I hold of him by the ham}, ordering him to escape,1i and not to look behind him. Lot requested'leaveof the angels to retire to Zoar; and he had nosooner entered Zoar, than the Lord rained firo andbrimstone on Sodom and Gomorrah from .heaven.Lot s wife, alarmed at a sudden noise, looking backbecame a pillar of salt. Lot, affrighted, went upanti dwelt in a mountain, his two daughters imagin-mg> they, and their father were the only re¬mains of the inhabitants of the earth, thought itt eir duty not to suffer the generation of men toperish, made their father drink wine, and did notstop to commit incest in hopes of bping mothers:and though we cannot think ou that, action withouthorror yet there innocence did much lesson theAbraham being obliged, soon after the overthrowof Sodom, to quit his former abode, crime to Ger^r,where he was exposed to some danger* by the kingqf that city, on account of his wife, as he had beenby the king of Egypt. Abimelech, king of Gerar,sent and took Sarah, who called herself Abraham’ssister, as she had done in Egypt. But Gqd, whowas the protector of Sarah’s chastity, threatenedthat prince in the night-time, telling him he was adead man if he offered to touch Sttrah, fpr she wasAbraham’s wife. Abimelech was horror-struck atharing nearly committed so great a crime, and ter-rifiod by the threats of God, called all his officers andservants together, as also Abraham, and reprovedhim sharply for concealing the truth, to make himand his kingdom guilty of so great a sin. Abrahamreplied, that they were both of one father but dif¬ferent mothers.tHagar and Ishmaei cast dufc.promise to Sarah, and she brought'i; forth a son in her old age. Abraham called himIsaac, and circumcised him the eight day. Sarahi suckled himherself, though a great princess; and whenthe time of weaning Isaac was come, Abraham madei a great feast to express his joy. In the mean time,’ while Sarah had so much reason to rejoice, Hagar’sj son became cause of great trouble to her. This lad,: disappointed in his hopes by the birth of Isaac,could not endure to see his father and mother dp-s light so much in him, and began to behave himselfi» abusively towards him. Sarah foresaw the fatijlconsequences of this hatred, and entreated Abraham» to cast out the bond-woman and her sen. ThisI quest greatly afflicted Abraham, but God adviser]i him to do as Sarah bad said. They were forthwithcast out; but an angel appeared and spoke Comfprt-ably to them in the wilderness, assuring her^'fl'A■ son would be the father of a great nation. ■8Abraham offereth uh Ipvn.n.Isaac being now arrived at the age of twenty-seven,God, to try Abraham, commands him to take hi*son, whom he loved, and offer him up upon a moun¬tain. He remembered he had received his sonfrom God, and his great faith stifled all the thoughtswhich did arise in him about the divine promises sooften repeated to him, that from tho very Isaacwhom he was now about to offer, bis posterity shouldbe multiplied as the stars of heaven. Accordinglyhe rises early in tho morning, and takes Isaac hisson, and two servants, cleaves the wood for theburnt-offering, and binding Isaac Ins son, laid himon the alter, and stretching forth his hand, took thoknife to slay him. God, seeing constancy in thefather, stops his hand by an angel from heavenHereupon Abraham, seeing a ram caught in athicket by the horns, offered him up to God insteadof his son, and returned to his house. ,J0’- tmThe Death and Burial of Sarah.ffl . beoig ik-fi parents yjr me com*I .W8WH of him who fjvt bestowed him, he was theP icmufort of his ir.oiJier in ho old age, who, being51 atfived at the age of one hundred and twenty-sevenIJ .years, die<i^ Abraham haying wept over her some; time, considers of pi:oviding a burying place for her.aie addjresaes the children oi' Heth, stating'he wasi ja stranger,^ and that he wished a burying place toj bury the dead, out of his sight, which was Jdndly* granted; requesting him to take choice of all theirsepulchres. . Abraham, who would, not be behpldentit» any man, entreated th : u to sell him a fieldwliich had a double cave, li t they wanted him toj accept of it as a free gift. Out Abraham was im¬moveable, and forced Eph on to tell him that thefield was worth four him ore shekels of silver, whijhAbi .i .iair .pu; ! vy u, and there he buried Sarah.Abraham being old, and thinking to take a wifefor lus son Isaac, resolves not to allow him to marryaijy of the daughters of the Canaanites; but des-'j,>atcjies Eliezer his steward to Mesopotamia to take'h, wife for his Son. Being come near the city ofKhlvof, ho prayed that God would direct him to theperson he had allotted to be his master’s son’s wife, byl.li is token, that the damsel he should ask to drawwater for himself and his camels, should do itfrankly. Itebekah came, and Eliezer ran to meetlier, and desired water to drink, which she readilyAye him, and hasted to draw for his camels. ThisfaithfiJ servant, satisfied that she was the person,presents her with many presents, when she ranhomo to her brother, who instantly ran to meetAbraham’s servant, brought him home, and settVoWn meat before him but would eat none till hegbt an ^hswdf to his business. A favourable answerbeing giten, he prepared to return home.nEfeu sells his Birthr:>ht to Jacob.After the happy consummating of Isaac’s marriage■with Rebekah, Abraham lived many years, till atlength transported to that better and heavenlycountry ^ having spent one hundred and seventy*five years in the exercise of holy virtues and graces.God, after his death, multiplied his blessings onIsaac his son. E^ut they had ibeen twenty yearsmarried without having any children, when Isaacprayed the Lord for his wife’s sake for children, addhe was hoard, and Rebekah was delivered of maletwins. The Divine oracle stated that tlw ,-eldershould serve the younger. When these two childrenwere grown up, Jacob,: the youngest, on a time sodlentil pottage, and Esau, returning from hunting,extremely hungry, with greediness desired,this pot'tage ; which Jacob perceiving, would not, part withit till ho had promised to sell him his bivthright inconsideration thereof, to which EsaEsau having sold Jacob his birthright, Rebekah,who had a tender love for Jacob, ratified the rightby a holy piece of craft. Isaac being sensible ofhi? great age, and willing to bless his children orelie died* called Esau his eldest, whom he loved, tohim, 'to hunt some venison, and make savoury moatthat he might bless him. Rebekah told Jacob tofetch two kidsy that she might make savoury moatto Isaac. She then dressed Jacob in Esau’s drossand put the skins of the kids upon his hands andsmooth of his neck, that his father might supposehim to be Esau, which had the desired effect; forhe'received his father’s blessiug by this deception.Scarcely had ho made an end of blessing Jacob,when Esau came in from hunting, prepares hi*savoury meat, brings it to his father, aud desireshim to eat that'ho might bless him. The holypatriarch; perceiving the deception, trembled, andEsau cryed bitterly. Isaac, moved with his criw,blessoth him also, but subjects him to Jacob.13Jacob’s Mystical Ladder.anger of Esau against Jacob vas too visibleto be hid from Re^ekah ; and the tender love shehad for Jacob caused her to send him away for &time, though grieved to let him out of her sight.J To reconcile her husband Isaac to it, she spoke ofI bis marriage—how grieving it would be if her sonJacob would marry auy of the daughters of the lantjof Canaan, as Esau had done against their wish.Jacob was sent away, more like a fugitive than the; sou of a rich person. Being overtaken by night,•f he was obliged to take up his lodgings upon .the■ earth, with no softer pillow than stone. Here hedreamed that he saw a ladder, the top of whichreached to heaven, and the angels of God ascend-ing and descending upon it. He was the Lordabove it, who encouraged him to proceed on hia' journey, and promised that his seed should be M' the dew of the earth, as in him should all nationsM of the earth be blessed.hiJacob servethfbr Rachel and Leah.Jacob a^snted by,the vision of tho Divino pro: ;Itrfttitm, ivetit cb6erfully on his v*ay to liaran/anii^iCetirtg some shepherds hear a well, which had Jj ,jjtefit stdnb at the mouth thereof, asked them Iwhither they knew one Laban, a grandchild of jWa.ljhi': 'They answered, yes ; and that Rachel his |daughter's coming thither with bis sheep. Jaoob ino soonef Saw her, then he went and rolled the stone Ifrom the 'inouth of tho well, watered his sheep, ,kissed her, and made himself known to her. Sheran with the tidings to her fatheiv Who catne forth, 1kissed him, and brought him to his hOUSti. Jacob iidld hinf of his btothhrS fi#y,''Stating that he HWinl ]hifrt.t 4:6 '^nicn 1 Mt IJhehb Should scTVb Irrfn.'bbVtm yeatS for RachOl, !Whi(}h'tefe he fiftished ;'4iu4 'libah falsely pdt iinto Jacob’s bed, which displeased Jacob; butIGSbhti'a^pensod hint' by promishjg him Rachel attlie end of other seven, which ho msb 'coni^lhfed'.LilJacob’s return to his birth-place*The blessings that God so plentifully showeredS| down, upon Jacob excited Laban’s envy, so that be■ perceived it prudent to leave Mesopotamia. For1 this pdrpOse he calls his two wives, and tells them|j of his design. Which they approving of, he went off|ij privately, taking family and possessions. Laban,i informed of their sudden departure, and missing ri some of his idols, pursue* them seven days. As■ H sOoU as he overtook them, he reproached Jacob for) stealing hi* daughters ; and however right it mightI be to return to his country ; it was very unjust tosteal the idols. Jacob declared his ignorance otany such thing, whereupon Laban examined his< Whole effects, and at last enters Rachel’s tent; but1 before his coming shb hid them in the camel’s fur-: niture, and sat upOn them ; and desired her fatherr. not to take it ill that she did not rise, as she was11 tfflwell. 1 Uaban, forced to return without them,i mado a covenant with Jacob, after which they h>T-li ingly took leave of each other.16Jacob having thu* escaped the hands of Laban,began to think how he might escape those of Lsap,whereupon lie sent messengers before him that hemight find grace in his sight. Upon there return,thej declared that he was at the head, of four hun¬dred men coming to meet Jacob, which filled himwith extreme fear. Jacob, to soften his brother’sheart, prepared great presents to him, left ordersfor his wives and children to pass over the brookJabbok by night, while he remained on tho otherside. He betakes himself to prayer -for a happy,snooting with his brother, when an angel appeared,,unto him, and wrestled wifh him until day, whentho angel touched the hollow of liis thigh, andCaused him to halt, and gave him the pew name of,Israel, with tho assurance that ho had nothing tofear from men, and in particular from his brotherEmu. .loJjo „r' :Jacob wrestleth with an Angel.17When' Jkcolf Was ffefair'iTAd^froiH Mesopotamia, acity of the Sh^ckeitiites, afti st(fciderit happened whichcaused ’ him1 a great deal of sorrow. Dinali beinggone abroad to See the1 daughters of the larid, their| Jcing took hhr by forhe, and raVished her; butdesired to> get her to-wife. Jacob was grieved atI his daughter’s defilement; and his sons, dissemblingtheir rage, requested the Shechemites to be circum¬cised, ’that the 'nintuari'nteVcdiVrse they propusqdshould take':p4aec.- Tlwy con'Sbntcd ;\nd on theit] !third day, whert thdir pain ’WLsmost sensible, Sftneon- and Levi took tl^ir^wq^ds' and came afpon them,.i j '-and slew all the males, without sparing the kinghimself or his son, whose unlawful lust caused thisbloodshed. I'he rest of Jacob’s sons pillaged theJ teity, iaftd carried’•all the' spoil along with thorn,•:S taking aH their little Ones and their wives captives.Jacob was extremely troub'ed at-this,' their revenge.i Jacob’s sons kill all the people of Sheciiem.AN ACCOUNT OP JONAH'S MISSIONTO TBMNINEVITES.Jon An was the son of Amittai, a prophet of Oath-hepUer ip. Galilee, Soma Jews would have him tobe the sou of the widow of Sarepta, raised to life byElijah, but the distance of time renders it almostimpossiblenor is it a whit more certain that he.was the son of the Shunamite restored to life byfElisha, pr the young prophet who anointed Jehu,, It is certain, that he predicted that God wouldrestore to the Hebrews, the cities which the Syrianshad tatem from them during the reigns of Ahab,Johoram, John, and Jehoahaz, 2 Kings, xiv. 25.He restored the coast of Israel from the entering ofHama,th unto the sea of the plain, according to theword Qjf the Lord God of Israel, which he spake bythe hpaid of his servant Jonah, the son of Amittaithe prophet which was of Gathihepher. We havealso the book of Jonah, where God ordered him togo to Nineveh and warn the inhabitants of thttrapproaching destruction.Ninereb was the capital of Assyria, and built by1 Asshur the son of Shorn> Genesis, x. 11, ‘‘ Out ofthat land went forth Asshur, andbnilded Nineveh!^’It was one of the largest cities in the world, ih! Jonah’s time it was a city of three day’s journey, or: Wcmld'require him three days to g6' through it,!, ^reclaiming its overthrow. It then had about Wehundred ahd twenty thousand infants in it, whom we1 cannot suppose above the eighth or tenth part of itsinhabitants: one learned writer says it was sixtymiles in circumference ; anil another writOr'say^’It!! Vas larger than Babylon. It was surrounded by aI wall about two hundred feet high, and'so-thick,:i that three-chariots abreast might have been driven| along the top : on the wall were built one thonsanUill five hundred towers, each two hunVlred feet HigherI‘than the wall; this city was very early noted forii' Wealth, idolatry, and. Whoredom. ,c*Fearing that the Lord might forbear punishing';!‘them if tfi&y repented, and, sd seemingly tarnishIbis honour, Jonah shipped himself at Joppa'MrTarshish, when a storm quickly pursued the Shipwherein he was. The heathen mariners awaked lihn,|i and required him to call on his God for deliverance,il Lots being cast to discern for whose sake the, stormI arose, the lot fell on Jonah; who with -shamb con-i fessed his guilt tp the marihers, and desired .themi to cast him into the sea, that the: storm might'lie' i stayed, which with reluctance, they word at lastt obngecjtodo ; whereon the'Stonri immediately Cea sed.A large fish swallowed up ,Jonaih,;ahdJfetairtod'Mihsafe in her belly for three days. There he earneStlv'[ prayed to the; Lord, at whose command the fish“[ 'Vbipited.’him alive on dry land. His orders to warn|:| the Mfieyltes Of there approaching destnjRtioh wereI immodiatOly renewed, and ah obedient, he hasted'to^13 l^hktvast*'city, f; ',1 'i<5lU;' "• 'itlj£btoVe a''day,sjeur-neyderfotrttd? ’ h «enm i o didwytripfoe^-soin forty days.^ When tho inhabitant* hoard this,they wore greatly afflicted; a fast of throe days bothfor man and beast was appointed, and they criedmightily, to Gpd for the preventing of this stroke ;he heard their prayers, and long delayed their ruin.Displeased yith the divine mprey, Jonah angrilywished to die, rather than live and see his predictionunfulfilled. While he sat without the city, waitingfor his desired view of Nineveh’s ruin, God causeda gourd quickly to spring up to overshadow himfrom the scorching heat of the sun, but next day,a worm having bitten its root, it suddenly withered.The scorching sun and blasting wind vehementlybeating on Jonah, he fainted and angrily wished toi■die,,and averred to Clod himself, that he was right in J;•■dfling so. The. Lord bid.hjm think, if he had pity onthe short-lived gourd, was tliere npt far more reasonfor his and their maker to pity the penitent inhabi¬tants of Nineveh?Nineveh at last was destroyed about one hundredyears after Jonah. The Medes and Persians had.several times jlaid.siege,to it, but were aiverted byvarious accidents ; but after the massacre of thoTartars ip Media,;they repeated the siege, Cyaxaresand Nebuchadnezzar being the commanders: afterthey had lain, .before it three years, the river Tigrusor Svens, being exceedingly swollen, washed awaytwo and a .half miles of the wall; when the waters ass¬uaging tlie besiegers rushed'into the city, and mur¬dered the inhabitant, who lay buried in their drunk-.eness, occasioned by an advantage which they hadjust before gained over tlie enemy. When the king,whose name we suppose was Sardanapalus, beard thocity was taken, it is said, he shut up himself, family,and wealth to the value of about twenty-five thou¬sand millions sterling, in the palace, and then setfire to it, and destroyed all that was in it, and it wasfifteen days before the flames were quenched21- It is liard to say what was the gourd that covered' Jonah’s head at Nineveh : Jerome says, it was ai small shiub, which, in the sandy places of Canaan,1 grows up in a few days to a considerable height, andwith ite large leaves forms an agreeable shade. It: is now generally thought to be the Palma Clmsti,1 which is somewhat like'a lily, with large smooth andblack spotted leaves t one kind of it grows to theheight of a fig-tree; and whose branches and trunk arei hollow as a reed ; there is also the wild gourd, which1 creeps along the surface of the earth, as those of cu-: cumbers; its fruit is of the size and form of an orange,4 containing a light substance, but so excessively bitterthat it ha's been called the gall of-the earth.I'.'i I have now given you a short account of the1 History of Jonah, which could be greatly enlarged:i if space would permit—also the command given byjiijCrod to preach at Nineveh—Jonah’s disobedience1 to! that command—the pursuit and arrest of him for,1 that disobedience by a' storm, in which he was asleep~ —the.discovery of him and his disobedience to beM the cause of the storm—the casting of him into theii sea, for the stilling of the storm—the miraculousn preservation of his life there in the belly of a fish,1 which was his preservation for -further services. WeI have also Jonah’s praying mite God : it; hi» prayerwe have, the great distress and danger lie Was in—the despair he was thereby almost reduced to—theencouragement he took to himself in this deplorablecondition—»-the assurance he had of God’s favour tohim—dho warning1 and instruction: he gives toothers—the praise and; glory of all given to. God—his deliverance out of-tlie belly of the fish—and hist> coming safe and- sound upon: dry land again-^-hisli mission renewed—and the command a second time1 given him to go preach at Nineveh—his message toI Nineveh faithfully delivered, by which its speedy> evertJirow was threatened—-the rcpentanCfy humjliiv-ktiou, and; reformation of the Ninevitei heronpon— iOgd’s gracious revocation of the sentence patsecupon tpem, and the preventing of the ruin threatened; iWe ha_ye also Jonah’s repining at God's mercy t( 1Ninevelj, and the fret he was in about ik—the gen-!ltie reproof God gave him for it, Jonah’s discontent i*at the withering of the gourd, and justifying ol ahimself in that discontent—God’s improving of itfor his conviction, that he ought not to bo angry a< «the sparing of Nineveh, Man’s badness and God’sgoodness serve here for a foil to each other, that theformer may appear the more exceeding sinful, andthe latter the more exceeding gracious.From all this we may learn, First, that though iGod may suffer his people to fall into sin, yet ho 1will, not suffer them to lie still in it, but will take acourse effectually to show them their error, and to.bring them to themselves, and to their right mindagain. Wo have reason to hope that Jonah, afterthis, was well reconciled to the sparing of Nineveh,and was as well pleased with it, as eyer he had beendispleased • dfloSecond, that God will justify himself in themethods of his grace toward repenting returningsinners, as well as in the course his justicfe takes withthem that persist in there rebellion, though there arethese that murmur at the mercy of God, becausethey do not understand it, (for his thoughts andways therein are as far above ours as heaven is abovethe earth) yet he will make it evident that thereinhe acts like himself, amd will be justified when liespeaks. See what pains he takes with Jonah, toconvince him that it was very fit that Ninevehshould be spared. Jonah had said, I do well to boc  "   great encouragement to poor sinners to hope thatthey ehall find mercy with him; that hejustify himself in showing met'Cy, And to triumpfc11 those whom he makes the monuments of it, againstlose who is evil becayse ho is good; such, nnw-urers shall be made to uu^erstaaid this doctrine,lat how narrow soever their souls and their prin-. ,,ples are, and how willing soever they are to e^-bss divine grace to themselves, and thqso of tjiq(rrn way, their is one Lord over all, that is rich inorcy to all that call on him, and in every nation^ineveh as well as in Israel, he that fears God, and~rk^ righteousness, is accepted of him, and he that)0nts and turns fron his evil way shall find' mercyth him. WDid not the fate of this prophet, typify our ^fT}-r’s beiug cast into the raging sea of divine wrath;S lying a part of three days in tho grave ; his glqn-is resurrection from the dead; and the p^hlipatiQB/qfs gospel to multitudes of perishing sinners thatillowed.We cannot close more fitly, perhaps than by ex-cting a few lines from the powerful summing upthe poet YoungiiWhat am I ? and from whence ?—I nothing know,Et what I am: and since I am, concludenothing eternal: had there e’er been nought,light still had been : eternal there must he.it what eternal ?—Why not human race ?id Adam's ancestors jvjthpvt an end ?•tS lat’s hard to be conceiv’d. Yet grant it true,hence earth and these bright1 orbs?—Eternal too!j ‘ant matter was eternal, still these orbsould want some other father ;—much designseen in all their motions, all their makes :sign implies intelligence, and art;lat can’t be from themselves, or man ; that artn scarce can comprehend, could man bestow !ho motion, foreign to the smallest grain,ot through vast masses of enormoos weight!Such various forms, and gave it wiogs to fly ? |jHas matter innate motion ? then each atom, f•Asserting its indisputable right fTo dance, ivould form an universe of dust: 'H^s matter none? Then whence these glorious fort ;"Ahd boundless flights, from shapeless, and repos’aiHas matter more than motion ?—has it thought,Judgment, and genius?—is it deeply learn’dIn mathematics ? lias it fram’d such laws.Which but to guess a Newton made immortal ?—If so, how each sage atom laughs at me,Who thinks a clod inferior to a man !Tf art 'to form, and counsel to conduct,And that with greater far than human skill,Resides not in each block—a Godhead reigns—And if a God there is, that God how great!”jcif.t Avamtia snurmocf to rODujnu'rnvd nnm n ,qu gnirnrrtn?. h:1 lowoq.vron l giriifJcu I—T eoaodw rro lobnionoo ,rnn I eonig b.Idgrion noed m'o owilJ bad.od J»iim oiodf lamoto : roMngiaob damn—; •ladlni: soiern liodJ lla ,encr liarfia icdt ; nsm " > .aovl sIwolaed niiin blnoo ,1 no; tin Icaul moil ed i’u[m.irftA'l rtftO oaii;lomi e-jilqini?am Jsusv rigwoi