THEHISTORYOF THESEVEN WISEMasters,! Many excellent and delightful Examples,I . mith their Explanations,and modern Significations, whichl (by way of allpsion) may be termed,i An historical comparison of Sacred and CivilTRANSACTIONS.I| • The better to manage impressionm THE MINDS OF MENOf Rome.CONTAINING ;EDINBURGH.Printed for the Bookieliers.1816THEHISTORYOF THESeven Wise Masters.' c h a r. i.fpHERE reigned in the city of Rome,famous Emperor, whose wife excelleiin virtue ali the rest of her sex ; he had 1).this wife one son named Diociesian. TbEmperor assembled his nobles to advise ho'he might train up his son. Their opinionthat he should send for the Seven wise Masters. The young Prince thus disposed ,chis mother, the queen, soon after died ; anthe Emperor having lived single for son:time, the Roman Lords besought him |take a second wife. At this all the courts ;Europe were searched, for an accomplish^lady ; at length they pitched on the King, iCastile’s daughter, of whom, the EinperUmuch approved ; the marriage being cojieluded she came to Rome and there, wiipomp, the nuptials . were celebrated. Tfoiyoung Empress having no child, studied howi'll she might destroy the young Prince : and theI better to do it, prevailed with her Lord toifjsend him to court. But ibe hasty andii [unexpected message caused the masters t*1 suspect some evil ; they consulted the Planetsiijand found that,if the Prince went at thatilijtime and spoke at all, he would die a vio-death ; and yet if he went not, theylose their heads, which they would ra*do than hazard his life. Whilst theyin this anxiety, the Prince came downlemanded the cause of their troubles ?which they related, with their resolution.With that he viewed the firmament, andi the constelation more propitious, forw appeared, that if he abstained from:ing seven days, he would escape thethreatened, desiring his masters to in-le in his favour and make an apology toithe Emperor for his not speaking for such aime ; and withal told them a dream thatic had dreamed, viz. That his bed chambereemed to be turned upside down. Fromdiich they presaged good success, promisingo do their utmost for his preservation, andthereupon set him upon a stately horse cloth-■ d in purple and gold, and attended him tosis father’s court. The Emperor, came forthml embraced him, enquiring for bis wel-are, to which the prnce gave no answer ;thereat the Emperor marvelled, yet sup¬posing it was so ordered by the masters, h«4conducted him to. the palace and seated himnext the throne; interrogating many thingsbut he answered to none. While the Empe¬ror’s thoughts were taken up in wonderingjjat his son’s silence, the Empress came in-dorned with costly robes, and understanding,;which was her son-in-law, received him witlijbecoming kindness, and taking him aside,by the Emperor’s consent she undertook tomake him speak.Though with intent his virtue to betray, ^That to his life she might make easy way JCHAP. II.The Empress’ wicked scheme.The Empress, fired with the beauty oithe youpg Prince, sought many means tcbntice him to a rich alcove, telling him.*that she would die and leave her royalty ilhe denied her love. Thus he refused, (ho.in silence ; whereupon she brought him perink, and paper;, desiring him to write a replywhich he did to this effect ; Great Madam,the laws of my Creator forbid so great i ‘wickedness, as to defile my father’s bed ; fatal. Madam, would be the consequence, botl -from avenging heaven, and my father’ ■Wrath, therefore on my knees, I implor ‘you would proceed no farther ; hereupon hI5fell upon his knees. The Empress seeingthis, turned her love into hatred, tearing erhface and robes in a most wretched manner,crying out for help. At this alarm the Em¬peror came and demanded the cause, whenshe declared that the Prince would havebeen rude.with her, and forced her to lewd-ness. The Emperor commanded him to beput to death directly upon which the noblesfell on their knees before their Lord, andbegged a respite for his execution ; to whichI the Emperor agreed ; which pleased all but1 the Empress.CHAP. III.Pantilius, ihe first Master’s Intercession.The Empress grieving at the delay ofthe Prince’s execution told the Emperorthe following example, saying, if this sonlived, it wotdd fare with him as with a Ro¬man Nobleman, who had in his orchard afair tree bearing fruit, but one day he sawspringing from the root thereof a 3roungscion, at which he rejoiced, saying, Thiswill .be a very fair .tree ; but finding that itincreased not in growth asked the Gardenerthe reason, who answered, That the. largebranches of the old tree kept the sun andfalling showers from it: whereupon he caus-6ed many to be cut off, yet finding the bodyof the old tree impaired the nourishment ofthe young scion, he caused it to be hewndown, which done, the young scion vvither-- ecb Even so, said she is your case; youare the tree, and your son the scion, that isinciting your subjects to rise against1 yourlife, that he may reign. That shall not be,said the Emperor, for to-morrow he shallsurely die.The day appointed being come,'the Princewas delivered unto the executioner: WhichFantillius the first master hearing, he hastedto the palace, and told the Emperor the fol¬lowing example.There once lived a knight in this citywho had a son whom leaving to the care of •some nurses, he often went abroad ‘delight-!ing in hawking and hunting ; among his! 'dogs he had a greyhound. One day going •to a tournament, he left his hound and fal¬con at home, at which time, the cradle, inwhich the son was, was standing in the hallthe nurses having left it, and the grey-hound 'deeping by it, the falcon espied a serpent^ ts.icoming out of a hole in the wall, going to¬wards the child, upon which, shaking and .1.fluttering his bells, he awaked the grey- »hound, who killed the serpen# and saved •the child, yet, in the bustle, the cradle was roverturned, and the child was whelmed un-, tder it, the grey-honnd, lyi°g down by itand licking its hounds ; which the servant7seeing ran and told the lady and knight whowith them concluded the hound had devour¬ed his son ; whereupon the father struck offthe ho'und’s head, but afterwards • foundhis mistake. So said the master, it willhappen unto you—Then said the Emperor,My Son shall not die.C H A P. IV.Lenlullus, the stcond Master’s Intercession.The Empress hearing that the Masterhad prevailed With the Emperor, came, andmournfully besought him that his sun ^mightbe put to death lest it happen to him as toa wild boar, thus ; There was a mighty Em¬peror, whose empire was wasted by a boar,which obliged the Emperor to proclaimthat whosoever killed him, should have hisdaughter in marriage, and the crown afterhis disease; Many altempied but in vamuntil a, shepherd with only a staff, resolvedto venture on him, but beholding his greattusks, &c. was afraid to touch him, thereforebetook to a tree, on which grew deliciousfruit but the boar shaking it so, he was fearful ofits falling, therefre threw down the fruit thereof,which so satisfied him that he lay down tosleep, in the interim the shepherd descended.8stnuk'the beast to tbe heart ; and so won whalthe Emperor had promised. Consider thenmy Lord the case is yours ; you are the mightyhoar, against which open force cannot prevail;but secret fraud may deprive 3'ou of your lifeand empire while you hearken to these mastersiThen, said the Emperor, he shall die.The second master, named Lentullus, on hear¬ing that the Empress had again prevailed camebefore the Emperor, entreating him to spare h isson’s life, lest it happen to him as it did to aRoman knight that espoused a beautiful wife,and fearing she would stray, locked the doorsevery night, laying the key under his head, bulshe stole it from thence, and sported with he*gallants, but one night, missng her, he boltedthe door : she returned and knocked, but 1)6 \upbraided her for inconstancy, saying, sh< kshould stay till the watch seized her : wherei iupon she took two large stones, and threw 3them in a well that was in the court-yart ithen hid herself under the door On whicj »•the knight thinking she had jumped into tip ;well, came down to relieve her ; when upon khis opening the door, she- slipped in an< tbolted him out, calling for the watch to seizj 1him ; who adjudged him to stand in the pil 1logy. This story so much moved the Em: tperor, that, says he, this day wy son shall m tdie.9CHAP. VCratoa, the third Master’s Intercession,The Empress being exceedingly outrageous,the Emperor could find nothing that wouldlivert her fury, but promised her his deathbnce more. There lived says she, a Knight atRome who spent great riches and was reducedpoverty, so that he was about to sell his(inheritance : but his son and his two daughters•ged the contrary ; whereupon he resolvedwith his son to break into the kings treasuryhe did so, and took thence as much gold asboth could carry. They attempted it again asecond time, and the father going first, wascaught in a trap; whereupon he told his sonto strike off his head, lest on being discovered,his famly should die. The son accordinglycomplied and bore away the head : but thenext morning, the body being found, wo*,by the Emperor’s orders, dragged about thecity, with command, that wherever theyheard any weeping, as the body' passed by,to enter that bouse and. convey those there¬in, to the galbws, for of that house was helord; when the body came near the knight'shouse, the daughter shrieked, when, to pre¬sent the discovery, the son wounded him-10self, nrul insinuated that was the causethe officers were satisfied, and carried the ,body to the place of execution, and hangedit up, yet the son wi uld neither take it downnor -sbury the dead, though the father diedto save his life. Even so, said she isyour case :with your son, who seeks yourlite and my honour. That shall not be, forto-morrow he shall die, said the Emperor. jjWi’en slip had told her story, Crutoa, thethird master came in, saying, Dread Sovereign 5if your son die it shall happen to you as itdid' to a knight who kiWed a pye, that he "exceedingly loved—thus—A knight married awife, who took to unlawful pleasures which ;being, perceived by the pye, (whom the knighthad taught most languages) he told his mas* jter what had happened in his absence, forwhich the lady hated him, and to prevent Ito r the future, she untiled the house, and ,1cast down sand stones and water upon him >which th6 pye took for hail, rain, and snow ; Jso, when hit lord came home, he told he was ,almost killed by reason of the heavy tempest '(hat fell upon him. The wife hearing him say |so answered, my Lord, you may now jerror in crediting this bird, for there has \not been a fairer day in the memory of iman. The Knight, upon this, inquired of |his neighbours, who confirmed what shesaid. He therefore, broke the neck of *lhen1 Pye : but after the deed, \ he saw the house un-l!: tiled, with the gravel, &c. ’ stanch rig on the top| of the house, which persuaded him the Pye hadi[! been deceived. Deceived indeed, said theEmperor, and, for the example’s sake, my Sonshall not die this day.The Empress hearing this, answered. My| Lord, in this city reigned an Emperor named . rI Tiberius, who had seven counsellors,-who being|i skilled in Magic, so ordered by their chanpsvb that the Emperor’s eyes had a continual mist§j before them; but the Empress sitting at theStable with her Lord, comforted him in the bestway, desiring to command his chief counsellors,on pain of death, to restore him to sight; theEmperor then sent for the seven Magic coun¬sellors, and charged them t« tell the reason ofhis blindness, and to find a cur*. Al ter'‘longpuzzling, they found a youth who interpreteda dream of a spring, which rising small,soon overflowed the ground, and tfce manaccordingly digging, found a great treasure,as the youth had interpreted. They desiredhim to go with them, and he would be re¬warded. Coming before the Emperor, hedesired to be let into the royal bed-chamber,where, casting down the bed-clothes, thereappeared a seeming well, fed with sevensprings, which the y*uth said must be stop¬ped, ere he could have his sight in anotherplace. Then he demanded of him, how musti they be stopped? to which the youth an«12swered ; tlie seven springs signified his sdvencounsellors, who had usurped his royal au¬thority, casting a mist of delusion before hiseyes, that he might not behold their extor¬tions ; therefore, strike eff their heads said he,and the springs shall cease. To this he con¬sented, the springs vanished, and his sight wasrestored. ‘-Just so, said she, is it with youand your seven masters. On this he againconsented /t/s Son should die.PART VI.Malquidrnlre, the.fourth Master’s hdercession.Know, Great Sir, said Malquidrake to theEmperor. There formerly, lived in this city,an old Knight, who married a young Lad)',who complained to her mother, that she wasunhappy in flie marriage of this old man,designing to open her case to some priest.From this her mother persuaded her, urgingher to try his temper. The means she usedwere, to cut down the finest plant in the gar¬den, and put a fire under it; at another time,she dashed out the brains of his favouritehound ; and lastly, when he and his friendswere sitting at dinner, she threw all the dishesfrom off the table. Yet with her excuses heseemed satisfied, and that morning she intend¬ed to go to the priest, he brought a surgeon in-13Ip the chamber ; commanded her to rise andpe bled, whereupon she began to intreat; butiiaid he, your mad blood mu^t be let out, andif you refuse that I will'have your heart’s blood,ij-r-—Upon this she permitted him to bleed herjin both arms, till she fainted away : but re-tjeovering, she sent for her mother and told herj die usage. Her mother, being glad to he.ar ofIjthis correction, said, That old men’s revenge|was sure, though slow; asking her how sh«ijliked the priest ? The devil take the priest, ssid.| she. Til strive to please none but my husband.jilThe Emperor'hearing this, sent io spare hisIjiS’oH. The Empress understanding it, cameland said. My Lord, over this city reignedIpctavius, who being troubled with the rebellionilpfhis subjects, ordained his magician to devisela way how he might know, at any time, theWstate of the provinces: Upon which Virg-ilius,,||tlie most crafty of them, raised a tower, andplaced in it as many images as.provinces, and;in the hand of each a bell, which, - by the se-.ret instinct of Magic, rung out, if ,gny re-,velt. happened in.the province it was a;.sign--ed guardian of, so; that the citizens instant-,ly arriving, suppressed the foes ere .theyI could make; head; which being known tothe tributary nations,, desirious to cast offthe Roman 3'cke, they devised how to de-,slroy,the tower, and which, after a long de¬bate, was undertaken by four knights, whobringing great treasure, hid it in four pla»ees near the walls of the city, and entering irtjthey pretended to be sooth-sayers, .and woulddiscover hidden *treasure ; which being known’to the Emperor, be sent for them, who, pre¬tending to dream, discovered the treasure tliey-had hid; at last they pretended todre.m thatunder the tower lay a great treasure, and, if*the Emperor would permit, they would take ifcleut; to which he consented : whereupon they*1undermined the tower, and at break of day, leftthe city, and were out of sight when it fell. A#which the citizens being grieved, came to thes*Emperor and acquainted him with it; butunderstanding that through his covetousnessyithe mischief befel them, they carried him tothe market-place, and poured melted lead down**his throat, and so buried him. The en*wiysoon after came upon the town, *nd took i*and destroying the inhabitants, took all theirriches. The Empress then demanded, ifhe knew the meaning ? who replied in the;negative. Well then, said she, the towerwith the images signify your body, with itsintellectual faculties ; as long as they remain,strong, and on a good foundation, you arasafe; but if you give yourself up to the flat-"tery of the masters you must expect to fall.Rather than so, said he, they shall die with,my Son.15CHAP. IV.Josephus, the jifth Master’s Intercession.Dread Sir ! may I beg your attention t»j.he following example ? -Hippocrates, aamous physician took to assist him his cousinjalenious, who soon became more expert thanm, whereat he endeavoured to hide his artrom him, though in vain, for his prompt wifimpplied other defects : So that sending him torisit great persons in their sickness, he alwaysaired them; which created such jealousies inIipoocrates that he killed and buried him.But he falling sick, ordered his scholars to filli cask of water, which they did, and, thoughin hundred holes .were bored in it, yet none*rchild issue hence ; whereupon, he said he wastdead man, for as-no water came out of th»ask, so no virtues came out of the herbs toleal his desease-; aut if his cousin had beenilive he would have cured him ; thus complain-ng he died. For this example, said the Em*leror, rr.y Son shall not die.The Empress hearing of this new reprieve,'ame, and said ; Great Sir, when the King ofhe Goths invaded Rome, he had a steward[jiamed G-oadus, when one eveniievening, being merryi iu uiing him a beau-tiful woman, and he would have a great reward; ]whereupon the Steward compelled his wife to !lie with the King, bargaining for a thousandpieces of silver, and the Lady to depart eremorning. To this the king consenting, shewas brought, and the king enjoyed her; when,before day her husband came, and entreatedhis Lord to dismiss her, but the king refused,sajdng, she pleased him so well that she should 1sleep with him longer, whereat he being muchdisturbed, told him she was his wife, and that,for lucre, he had forced her to his arms : Atwhich, the king moved to anger, bade him de-|part on pain of death, which he did ; and theKing maintained her as his own wife. For]this example, said the Emperor, tnt/ Son shall,die, to-morrow.CHAP. VIICleopkas, the sixth Master’s Intercession, j,Cleophas came and said, There lived inthis cit}', a knight, who married an extraordinJary beautiful Lady, whose voice was so charm-'ing, that she ravished the hearers. One day'as ghe sat singing, with the casement openj 4;three favourite knights of the Emperor passecirby, they were all much taken with her voice! 'and person; they each tosk convenient times*17ii (without acquainting pne another) to treat a-bout enjoyment; to which she seemingly con-jji sented, In consideration as she was but poor0 they brought a hundred fiorids a-piece, and sheappointed them to come to her at differenti times and she would receive them: whichj done she acquainted her husband, advising himSto stand with his sword drawn, and, as the)' en¬tered, to kill them, which he performed andtaking away their money, threw their bodies in¬to the sea. Soon after the knight and his| Lady quarelled, and he striking her, shecried out in the hearing of many, O you! Monster I will you kill me, as you did thethree knights. They being missed, created1 a suspicion, upon which they were both sei-fced, confessed the fact, and were aftenvardsexecuted.—Then, said the Emperor, my Sonshall not die.Upon this, the empress came, and said.My Lord, In Armenia reigned a king, whohad a beautiful wife, on whom he doated;and that none other might enjoy her heconfined her in a castle, and kept the keyshimself.The queen, after four days confinement,dreamed she saw a knight, who-was enamour¬ed with her, and she.no less with him.—Nowthere was a knight who bad dreamed of herS beauty, and left his country to see her, butfinding she was confined, rode about the castle,hoping that he would see her looking iout at thewindow, and he found means to discover his18passion : Not long did his expectations fail,for the Lady beholding him, concluded he wasthe man she beheld in her dream ; and as hedaily frequented the place, she took an oppor¬tunity to drop a letter, which he took up, andso departed consulting with himself how hedetermined thus: That he would insinuate [himself into the king’s favour which he didby his great wisdom in state affairs, insomuchthat the king made him steward of his house¬hold ; and, accordingly, ordered a house to bebuilt adjoining to the castle- for him, throughthe great building of which, the Knight con-trived to cut the wall, and so to make a pri¬vate way into the castle, and then for secrecy,slew the workmen. When he entered, he was jijjo3'fully received by the quee^i, who permittedhim to take his fill of love, giving him thering which the king gave her on the wedding.;day; which the king noticed as he slept in hispresence; but he preceiving the discovery,feigned sick, and obtained licence to retire, con-jveying the ring to her again, ere the king cameto enquire after it: Nay, he often broughther to the king's table, pretending she was alady of his acquaintance whom he intended,shortly to wed. Then the king loooking car*Jnestly said. Well, if I had not the keys of theicastle, I should almost swear it was my queen ;;before he could go to prove it, she w'as returnedin her usual dress. In the end, the Kni-1ght desired the King to give him this Lady19ij n mari’iage, which he did giving them great. riches, with a ship to convey them to a port> n Greece, where the Knight had large posses-ji ions, and solemnly taking leave, they set sail,%he King sending his eyes after them, till theyjjvere out of sight,and afterwards,-went to divertIjiimself with the Queen, but coining into theIlpastle, behold she was fled ! and he, suspecting|lie Scheme, fell into great lamentations. UEven so, said she, will it be-fal if you, if youjihus give way to your masters. To preventJibe like, said the Emperor, they, nith my Son,J|.o-morrow shall die.-CHAP. IX.■Diodes, the Seventh Master’s Intercession.H The seventh Master named Diocles, cameiaand thus spake : Know Sir, that in Ephesus,lived a Knight who married a Lady, uponwhom he doated so, that he could not endureher out of his sight; but playing at chess, andhe holding a pen-knife itv his hand, she hit herfinger against it, which the Knight seeing, fellinto a swoon, and gave up the ghost: ■ Where¬upon she staid mourning by bis tomb. So herfriends built her a house nigh to it to mournin. Now when a malefactor was to be hang¬ed, ‘twas the law of the country, that the sheriff'20was to watch him on the gallows the ensuing;night. The Sheriff discovering a light in thewindow of the above house came then to warmhimself, and on returning, found tire thiefstolen; Whereat he concluded to go backto the window, and there bewail his inisforwtune, and desired her to put him in a way whatto do. Whereupon she pausing, told him tbatyat the price of his love, she would put him in ^way what to do, which was this: A few days?ago, says she, my Lord was buried, take and'1hang him up instead of the thief. But, said he,Sheriff, the thief had lost his ears, his teeth,,and his stones, as likewise in being taken, re--ceived a wou*J on his head. It is in thypower then, said she, to serve my Lord so:Nay, said he, not I. Then, said she, for thelove of you, I will perform it: And taking a'sword, she accordingly did it. So they diagged|him to the gallows, and so hanged him up.fThis done, she very urgently demanded of theSheriff to fulfil his promise : But he replied,O thou wickedest of women, how could thou be|so cruel to the dead body of thy husband ?-Therefore I will keep my word, and not marry'you while thou livest. And with that drew his jsword, and slew her.—Then, said the master,"you have understood what I related? Towhich he replied. Full well, and am of opi-,nion that she was the worst of women, there-;fore, for the words of a woman, my Son shallnot die.21CHAP. X.The Prince’s Complaint of the Empress.fj The seventh day the Masters brought thef'jyoung Prince to the Emperor, who said, Hail,jptoyal Father, Heaven can witness-the falsity'jot the accusation laid against me; for insteadjjjof my having tempted the chastity of the Em-|]press if was she that tempted me to lewdnessIwith her, which I refused; and because ISwould not speak (the planets having threatenedI my life, if in seven days I spoke one word) shefell into a rage and accused me ; Nor is shenice in her honor, for, under the cover of afemale garment, she keeps a j'outh to supplyyour place; and send for her attendants, and Iwill make it appear. At this the Emperor or-'dered all of them to be called in, and the per-•son the Prince pitched upon, proved to be aman, who confessed he had lain with the Em¬press, that he had them cast into prison, andthe prince told the following story. InPaleslane lived a knight, who had one senwhom he held in high esteem ; and for his nobleSfecomplishments, caused him to be taught allthe arts and sciences ; in which being perfect¬ed, sent for him to come home, and while hesat at dinner, a nightingale sung sweetly, atH*!22which the knight said, Ah, how sweet a song ithis, could any person but interpret it! t»which the youth answered, that he weidd unjdertake it,if he would not be displeased ; but hitfather commanded him to interpret it. Then;said the youth, the bird in her song, expressedthat I would be a great Lord, and thatfather would hold the water, and my mother t,towel to wash my hands. Whereupon the fajther growing angry, took him up and runningto the sea, cast him in, where he swam to ai|uninhabited island, and stayed there three ofour days, till a ship passing, took him up, an<|sold him to a duke in Egypt, who finding himwise, made him ruler of his house. It happen¬ed the King of that country was troubled withthe cry of three ravens, and demanded of thewise men the cause, but they could not resolve,him, therefore, he proclaimed, that if any couldtell the meaning, or cause the noise to ceasejhe should have his daughter to wife, and thdkingdom after his decease. Upon this. Alex¬ander (the youth’# name) went to the King,,■saying, that the ravens were the two old one®and their young one, which the male declar-ied was his right, seeing he had fed him in the;time of a famine, when the. female flew unto afar country to shift for herself, and left him toperish; when on the othev side, the female al-<-{edged, she had taken pains in .laying the eggand brooding it, wherefore the young one ap¬pertained to her. And now O King, said23Alexander, they come to you. to decide the cou-r roversy ; give judgment, and then the ravens[hall trouble you no more.-— Then, replied thet'fing, it seems good to me, that the young oneubide with the male; and on saying this theavens took wing and so returned nofinore. The Monarch thus delivered, con-tlirmed his promise, and advanced Alexander:o places of dignity. Alexander travelled totjRome, and there became carver to Titus, whosedaughter became in love with him, but hispeart being in Egypt, Lodowick was sent in|tjls stead, and Alexander sailed into Egypt..;Bul one ngmed Guido discovering an intriguefjbetween Lodowick and the Emperor’s daughter,llsent him a challenge, who engaged Alexander,Jjbut he being to celebrate the nuptials, sent Lo-idowick to celebrate them in his place, on condi- ‘1 jjtion that he would not rifle the princess of hervirginity.Alexander arrives at the court; the Emperorsupposing him to be Lodowick, rejoiced and thelist being ready the combatants entered, and,after a fierce fight, Alexander cut off" his foe’shead, and sent it to the princess.—The Em¬peror highly extolled him ; but he saying hisfather was sick took his leave, and went backto Egypt. Some time after, Alexanderwas made king of that country, and visited hisfather and mother ; one day, before dinner ac¬cording to the interpretation be had given ofthe bird’s language, his father brought him the24bason, and his mother the towel but he refiisit® let them hold either commanding his servanto do it. —Dinner being ending, he ask»them, how many children they had, they sanone. Had you ever any ? said the king, Ala:said the father, we had one son, but he wsdrowned long ago ; well look you to it, said tlking, for if I find it otherwise, you must expeJ)no mercy. Then they fell upon their knee1and confessed the whole matter ; then the kinjmildly raising them from the ground discover^Upon hearing this story, the Emperor resigred the government to his son Dioclesian, wlidemanded justice on the Empress and her part■mour, which was granted, the former beiiiburned and the latter hanged and quarteretAnd the Emperer dying soon after, left his so’in full possession <?f the empire.