MILLAR’S MONTHLY MISCELLANYBETWEENJAMES BLOCK, Esq.ANDILLAIt, the Editor of the Monthly Miscellany,'The Distresses of the Country,AND THEIR PROBABLE REMEDIES.■bt, falsely called, National—Interest of that Debt—Sink-'und—Seventy Millions of Taxes—Tax Eaters—^300,000a the Borough Faction pocket annually out of the Taxes—Paupers—Abolition of Sinecures, Pensions, Grants andluments, not merited by Public Services—Sale of Seats inament—Unequal State of the Representation, and Reformi me Commons House of Parliament—Equal Laws—Univer-! Suffrage Annual Parliaments, &c. &c.UPON THE CAUSES OFIn which are noticed,FOUNDED UPON A FACT.PART I.I W w-v^. VX.-XX wx. ■% ■v X, ■w ■nces and Peers may flourish and may lade,/jreath can make them as a breath hath made :it a bold Peasantry, their Country’s pride,ihen once destroy’d can never be supply’d.”Goldsmith.A Y 11 :Printed by D. Macarter & Co. for tire Author.1817.Entered in Stationers' Hall.PREFACE.As it is customary to say something by way of Piface, it may be noticed here, that these Conversatiohave made some noise both in Glasgow and Paisle;The Blockites, or perhaps they should rather be tered Block-heads, affirm that the victory was gainedMr Block. This Millar’s party as strenuously den;|In consequence of this difference of opinion, it wjthought advisable to publish the whole controversydetached parts, at a low price, and then all partiinterested would have it in their power to judge fithemselves, who had the better or worse of the dispute.CONVERSATION FIRST.On Monday evening, the 25th November, 1816,Millar was in his shop alone, perusing a mathematicllauthor, up drives his shop door, and in steps JamBlock, Esq.Block—Well, Millar, I hear that in a lecture whhyou delivered on Saturday night last, you had the adacity to insult the revered memory of Lord Neson, the greatest Admiral that ever sailed upon tlsea, who terminated his glorious career, in as glorioa manner. Not content with Lord Admiral Nelsayou also basely attacked that worthy old veteran Blcher. Nor could you be satisfied with these two, l>you must haul in by the bead and shoulders, the eveto-be admired Lord Wellington, whose deeds of fa;shall shine in the annals of our country, till timeseif expire. And those brave heroes, who fell in sua glorious cause, will be rewarded with crowns of g»irv in Leaven.e3Millar—I think, Mr Block, you have a great deali >f impudence, to come and treat me in such a mannern my own shop, whatever I said in my discourse on[ Saturday evening, I had a right to do so, independentif you, Sir. If you had attended upon that discoursetrourself, and heard with your own ears, what I said,fOu would not have had the smallest reason to be in aicassion about any expression that I used that evening,(concerning these Characters you mention,i Block. It may be so, perhaps I may have got a badlet of it.1 Millar. I recollect quite well, Sir, of that part ofhy discourse to which you allude. My Essay was u-i"on “ The causes of the different Seasons of the year.”n treating of vegetation in Spring, I said ‘ Shall wen this occasion forget the ploughman, ‘ who whistlesijo’er the furrow’d land,, an’ toils for us the lee langJday,’ to supply us not only with the conveniences,|j|ut even the necessaries of life, without which we couldlot exist ? ' The man who makes two blades of grassjija grow, where only one grew before, deserves farletter of the world than either an Alexander, a Charlesme Twelfth, a Nelson, a Blucher, or a Wellington ;whose employments have been to diminish the numbersIjf the human race, and for which they have been cov-Ired with "lory, and adored as demi-gods, while thellusbandman has been considered as a. poor Insignifi-Iit Clown". So Sir, you see that you are placed in2 same predicament, for you adore Nelson, Blucher,d Wellington as demi-gods.Block. I No, I do not, I consider them only as men:e myself. But men whose love of their countryed their bosoms to heroic actions. If such men hadit arisen our Tight Little Island would have beentally ruined. Buonaparte, that base usurper of therown of France, would have deprived us of our ex*tence as a Nation, and reduced us to the situation oftject slaves.4Millar. I have no such idea, nor ever had.oat prejudice, Mr. Block, let us just take a vieour existence as a nation at present. See how trlanguishes. Thousands of industrious mechanicsout of employment in every district of the com?*Iany persons have already died for perfect wanthe necessaries of life. Of these facts too many prcan be given. The reason of these distresses, isas has been falsely said, by a sudden transitionwar to peace! No, these mournful distresseswhich the country is involved, are the effects oflate sanguinary war, which was carried on to sapthe Divine Cause of legitimacy, and to destroyRights and Liberties of Mankind. Is not the Popfull power, and the Inquisition in fall force, to desreligious liberty ? and have not the beloved FEUD.AND, and other's, attempted the demolition of CLiberty ? One Mr Davies, in a speech which helivered at a meeting held in the Relief Church, Pley. On Saturday the 5th October, IS 16, obser“ The late unjust, unnecessary and sanguinary v.have cost this nation nearly two thousand millions sling; a sum, which if divided equally among the labcing men of Great Britain, would give each of tl:■£500, the interest, at £5 per cent, (for one y«would piay James Madison’s salary, of six thousipounds a year, as President of the United State;America, since the creation of the world, and niftain upwards of 250 families, at £01. a year, sinceflood of Noah besides. This vast sum has been vvtonly squandered in the cause of Legitimacy, andgainst the righti and liberties of mankind .”Block. Paisley Weavers may indeed ken somethabout heddles, treddles, heel-pins, tintoes, dressiiboxes, harnesses, nets, lappets, imitation shawls, j)!aior gown pieces. But they know nothing at all ahthe affairs of Government. Nor have they any hvness to know’ about the affairs of Government eithIll (lira tlioyhavc'gotlodo, is to xvorient their employment,\d ■pay up their taxes. A parcel oi lazy, ignorant weav-ijs, holding meetings to discuss about the affairs of.invernment, just as if the Government were account*jile to them, how they disposed of the Seventy Millions1 taxes. What business have they with George Rase,Id the rest of the Tax Eaters? Or the two hundredipusand pounds, v. h’ch the Be rough Faction gets outtire taxes every year? What business have they,(iiether scats in the Commons House of Parliament be'd like stabs in a market or not ? Or the Liberty of3 Press either ? If they get 'ibert.y to weave, whatlive liberty need they ask for ? They discuss aboutItfonn in Parliament, and say we should have Uni-isnl Suffrage, and Annual Parlimu-'irts, and that weij so unequally represented. They make a greatjs about Glasgow, «nd Manchester, and say what a[time it is, for such large and populous cities, not to| d a single member to Parliament, while these smalltoughs send to Parliament.1 Elector sends 2 Members,Newton,Old Snrum,Midburst,Castle Rising,Marlborough,Down ton,] do. sends 22 Electors send 2o24do.no.send_ 2send 2Send 2do.do.do.do.Total. 12 Electors send 12 Members.Although these 12 Electors have in their power top 12 Members to Parliament, and to be sure they’ be easily corrupted ; yet the Members of the.ise of Commons are not all returned by so few E-ors, which I will shew you out of Tegg’s Chrono-11 ( Reads)6London,Westminster, 10,000Middlesex, 3,500Surry 4-,500Southwark, 2,0007,000 Electors send 4 Membei ado. send 2do. send 2do. send 2do. send 2Here are 27,000 Electors to 12 MembMillar. Sir, what you have just now stated, :the absolute necessity of a Reform in the ComHouse of Parliament. In that Petition which tihabitants of Paisley sent to the Prince Regent, thei a“ Of the 658 members, which compose what is >the Commons House of Parliament, only 33 a1pointed by the people, the great Lords appointiiremainder, is an incontestibie proof, that those ithe Representatives of the people, are but the seiand tools qf this oligarchic borough-mongering ftin plundering the pockets of his Majesty’s induspeople of the fair fruits of their labour, in order tthe interest of a debt contracted for the worst oposes, and to squander upon men wholly unkno-the public, or if known at all, are remarkable fothing so much as hostility to the imprescriptibleof man, and their execrable intrigues, in sup pithat System which enables them to riot in luxuithe expenee of the industrious part of the natio:Mr Campbell, who also spoke at the Paisley meobserves “ By the actual state of the representhe subjects fundamental right is openly violatthousands are taxed, who have no voice in the elof Members of Parliament; and the present contion of Parliaments, is of a most dangerous and msiithtional duration, because Parliaments oughtchosen for one year only agreeably to the ConstituBlock. Campbell has copied out that speechfrom some hook, or other, which had been writ™issome Member of Parliament. Itlaughable circumstance for ignorant folk tosurelyar-/their saperiors about, a standing Army of 150,000i in time of Peace. Abolition of sinecures, pen¬is, grants, and emoluments not merited by Publicivices, useless offices, state paupers, Parliament set-' the Nation at defiance about the last corn bill,: ing fund, National Debt, interest of the Nationalit, excessive taxation occasioned by payment of; N ational Debt, &c.Jillur. Sir, riches appear to dazzle your eyes,i ause people are poor you think they can know no-g at all. I’ll find you men among tbe Paisley wea-that are well skilled in Politics, Mathematics,ironomy. Languages, Chemistry, and all kinds ofural Philosophy. Besides all this, I will find you•ley weavers that will preach you a better sermon,i nine parish ministers out of ten. Although you:-ar to hold the Paisley weavers in such contempt.Gobbet has a very different opinion of them. Inidegister, in taking notice of that meeting whichiheld in the Relief Church, Paisley', on the 5th ofipber, 1816, to consider the present Dissiresses ofCountry, their Causes and probable Remedies, He|, “ Myr very best acknowledgements are due to theitleman who has been so kind as,to send me a smallIphiet, containing the speeches and Petition of themeeting in Paisley. The principles expressed inpublication are admirable. The clearness of theaunts contained in the speeches; the manage-•t of the matter; the ingenuity and force of thei .rr.ents ; the spirit, eloquence, and impressiveness|ie language ; all these give to these proceedingsI tamp of superiority, and do great honour to Scot-. I wish the accounts of these proceedings could| ead by every man in the kingdom. I do not be-that so much talent is possessed by all the 16"s, and the 45 Commoners as is possessed by theikers at the Paisley meeting. I have read with!■8■great attention tiie accounts of t!ie proceedings athe"popular meetings which have been held oflate,I have no hesitation in giving it as my opinion, tthe proceedings at Paisley bear away the palm. T Iare the model for the imitation of every town . |county in the kingdom. It appears from the decation of the speakers themselves, that they are traimen, or manufacturers. They apologized for llwant* of ability for the task they had undet taken,one of them observed, that he had been urgedward in part, with a view of rescuing Scotland, fithe disgrace, which the general servility of his cu [•trymen in high life was but too well calculated to b'ilupon her. Look then, at these tradesmen ; read t |lluminous, eloquent and powerful speeches; conq|jthese with the few disjointed members of sentences vvli||Lord frequently, on such occasions, stammersor with the redundant and senseless trash of a bnfjing “ Learned Friends” make this comparison nMer, and then say, whether that you believe that th|an age when hereditary and professional privilegeslikely still to make mankind bow implicitly to their i|Great national evils generally in the end, bring!antidotes ; and as this js a season of uncommontress and peril, so it has brought forth such a porof public spirit, and of talent as to convince everythat the cause of freedom is in able hands, andaffairs of the country would not suffer by the clujthat may be expected to take place. Canningcalled the Reformers “ a low degraded crew.” ,the best parts of his hundreds of speeches were selccjthey would not amount in point ot talent to whatfind in the speeches delivered at Paisley, on theof October. It is a very false notion to suppose,men in this country, are possessed of talents anddom, because they possess power and emolumThus far Cobbet. I will now ask you a single q9n, Mr Block : How much space rJo jou think theational Debt, if it were ail in guineas would occupy?llBlock. I cannot pretend to say exactly. Two, oree, sugar hogsheads, full of guineas, would certainlyMount to a far greater sum than would pay all thetional Debt.1 Millar. The Paisley Weavers would be ashamedshew their ignorance to be so great as you havewn yours to be just now. I have been at the trouble.drawing up a few problems concerning the Nation-fDebt. After you hear them read, you will never a-( n think, that two or three Sugar Hogsheads full ofpeas, or a hundred either, will be able to pay off|i National Debt. The truth is, that few persons on|ping in a Newspaper, that we have “ Eleven hun-millions of National Debt”, have the smallest ideaijvhat an enormous sum the National Debt is. In-Jd, they can form no idea in their minds between thei|)le of that sum and the hundredth part of it. How-llr, I am of the opinion, that the solution of theseilems will give a more distinct conception of the|nitude of this Debt, Althougb Mr. Cobbet, andP's, have stated the National Debt at 1100 millions,[fiese calculations I take it only at a £1000,000000.I Suppose this sum, of one Thousand Millions of pounds were- in Guineas, Shillings or Half pence, allowing eaeh of theseto be an inch in diameter, and distributed in equal rows :i many English acres would they cover?jnswer 151*- acres guineas; 3,188£ acres shillings;176,525 acres halfpence.j Suppose this sum were either in Guineas Bank of EnglandJd Notes. Ihree Shilling pieces Shillings Sixpences, PennyI, or Halfpence, and allowing one to tell over GO of them inute, lor ten hours in the day, and 315 days in the year, whichdays for Sundays deducted : How long, at that rate, wouldto tell over the National Debt ? Answer84- years and 163 days for Guineas.88 years and 233 days ior Pound Notes.591 years and 235 days for Three Shilling pieces./101,T7'4 years and 341 days for*Shilling?.3,543 years and 317 days for Sixpences.21,299 years and 79 days for Penny pieces.42,598 years and 159 days for Half pence.If any Being had begun to teil out, tins sum in half pence, a!above rate, thirty ■ ix thousand years before the creation of the w<and continued telling it out till the present, at the end of s:hundred years after this it would not be all told out.Ilf. ( Suppose this sum were either in gold, silver, or cop;What length of a wall 3S inches high, and 10 inches thick, wit build in each of these metals'? Also: Wluit area of square p;of land would each of these walls inclose ?Ans. A Gold wall of one mile and 311 £ yanearly, which would inclose a square pieee of lane51% acres. .A 'Silver •frail of 28| miles, which wcinclose a square piece of land of 50 square mAnd a Copper wall of 147 miles, which would incia square piece of ground of 1350^ square miles.IV. Suppose this sum either in Bank of England Bound N512 to a pound weight, gold, silver, or copper : How many Inand waggons will it require to carry the national debt ? A 1stannual interest of the national debt at four and a half poundcent ? Allowing the Bank Notes, and Copper, avoirdupois we!the gold and silver troy weight; and each horse and waggon to ca ton weight.Ans. The horses and waggons necessary to cathe National Debt, will be for Bank Notes, 87Gold 9522, Silver 148,809, Copper 6,693,478.annual interest at .€4^- per cent, is 15 millions,horses and waggons necessary to carry the annualterest will be for Bank Notes 3924, Gold 428t}, Sil66964, and for Copper 301,341.V. How many miles of a r«ad would these horses and wagcover, allowing each horse and waggon 20 yards ?Ans. For Ihc National Debt. 99 miles and 14 ya, carrying Batik Notes, 108 miles carrying Gold, Ipmiles carrying Silver, and 76,miles .carrying Cper ; which in copper is upwards of tit roe titties rotthe globe of our earth.Ans. Tor the Annual iMcre’sL 4~ miles carry•Batik Notetq 4 miles and 1530 yards carrying11G miles and 176 yards carrying silver, and B'kZEdies and 1740 yards carrying- copper.VI. Hov/ many Soldiers will it require to carry either the Na¬tural Debt, or the annual interest of the National Debt, in Banj ’ England Pound Notes, gold, silver or copper ; allowing eatildier to carry 40 pound weight in his knapsack ?i .ns. For the National Debt.488,281 Soldiers carrying Bank Notes..524,232 Soldiers carrying Gold.8,333,304 Soldiers carrying Silver. And375,002,768 Soldiers carrying Copper.There are not as many men upon the globe of our earth as wouldsufficient to carry the National Debt in Copper ?Ans. For Annual Interest of the National Debt.21,972 Soldiers carrying Bank-Notes.23,590 Soldiers carrying Gold.291,998 Soldiers carrying. Silver. And16,875,124 Soldiers carrying Copper.It would require more Soldiers to carry the annual interest of th»j.tional Debt, in copper, than aH the inhabitants of Great Britain'd Ireland, put together.HTI. Suppose these Soldiers, one man deep, at three yards dis-| ce from each other : How far would they extend in marchingh either the National Debt, or Anntial Interest of the National.bt.in Bank of England Pound Notes, Gold, fiber, or Copper?IAiis. For the National Debt.■ 2 miles and 543 yards carrying Bank Notes, & 893-|iles carrying gold, 14,204^- miles carrying silver, &19,209 miles carrying copper; which is farther thanithe moon, and one halfback again; or upwards ofI times round the equator of our earth.\ns. For the annual interest of the National Debt.} miles nearly carrying Bank Notes, 40^ miles near-carrying Gold, 639^ mile& nearly carrying Silver,l 28,764-^ miles carrying Copper; which would goind the globe of our earth ly times.Til. How many Ships would the National Debt, in.Copper,1 at ,600 tons to each ? Ans. 13,39.1 ships nearly,lie tonnage, of the Navy of Great Britain, together with thenmercial vessels belonging to her, is estimated at about 2,300,00#1$tons in whole ; therefore the National Debt in copper wouldthem all nearly three times over.IX. Suppose the number of the members of the three estatParliament to amount to 12C0, and allow the weight of each iber to be 168 lbs. Would their weight in gold discharge thedonal Debt ?Ans. 1200 mcmlters multiplied by l^cwt is 90only: whereas the weight of the National Dcblgold is upwards of 9.122 tons; which is upward'105 times the weight of 1200 persons at Ucwt. eX. Suppose this sum to be either in a cubical piece ofsilver, or copper : What would be the length of one of its sideAns. In Gold 2.1 jL feet cubic. In Silver upwsjof 72 feet cubic. In Copper upwards of ItiS feet culXI. If all the inhabitants on the whole globe of the earth,to pay up our National debt among them, (which, by the bye,are under no obligation to do) How much would each person’s sof the national debt be ?Solution. Cf the numbers of mankind, autlhave differed widely in their opinions. Iliccioiilimates the numbers of mankind at 1000 millhVossius 500 millions, Brackenbridge 400 millions,Teller at 370 millions. If we take Riccioli’s estiuit will be one pound to each, Vossius' will bepounds to each, and Teller's estimate nearly tlpounds to each persons share.XII. Gtcat Hritain is allowed to contain nearly 12 miiliotlinhabitants. If tve allow 6 persons on an average to each faithe number of families will be two millions. Suppose this nuiof families to pay up the national debt among them. How nwill each family’s share of the national djbt be Ans.XIII. Suppose tins sum was either in guineas shillings, orpence, and laid singly down in a strait line, each touching anotedge i How far would the line of each of these coins extend ?Ans. in Guineas upwards of 15,0314 miles; wEis more than f- round the equator of our earth.Shillings 12| times round the globe, or to the meand one fourth part back again. In Halfpence 3*times round the earth, or 31^ times betwixt the e£and the moon, or upwards of 4^ times round the mo>trbit, encompassing the earth.1*A very nice metal orbit roi'^bt be made of this national debt formoon to roll upon, when peiforming its iroiaiily 'revolutionmil the earth.ilV. The whole land in Great Britain and Ireland is thoughtto be wovtb -£12 per aae, on an average ; bi t allowing it to be1 at that rate per acre : Would it pay the natiolial debt ?Ans. Accoitling to Smith’s New' English Atlas,sat Britain and Ireland contain 711,668,600 acres ;■eh niuhiplicd by £12 would lea\e £103,974-,400the National Debt unpaid.V. Suppose this sum to be either in Guinea*. Smllijigy, or Halfce, and each of these coins Leaped up in r; p:!c by them: elves.—owing tbe thicWne-., of 15 guineas 20 shillings, or 12 half pence,|m inch. Utqnbcd the height of eae'n pile ?Ans. In Guineas, upwards of one thousand mile-.;I'ich would form a golden ring round tbe globe otearth of one fifth of an inch in diameter. In Shil-js, 15,788 miles; which would form a Silver ringnd the g'obc of the earth of upwards of 7 tenths ofinch in diameter. In Halfpence, 681,812 tulles, or.vards of 25 times round the globe of our earth,a great copper cable, as thick as a tree of five inchesmeter, might be formed of the national debt to gond the globe of our earth.Tone part of this copper ring, which is made of theitisli National Debt, were to pass through the verydie ot the Island of Great Britain, it would thens the Equator. Some of our ingenious artistsht easily construct a machine, to whirl round thebe, upon this thick copper ring, with perhaps six,iglit, passengers travelling in it, making the tour ofworld. After one of these machines was found tower the purpose, more might easily be constructed.dn0 written thus far, a thought has struck me,ch puts me into a complete dilemma, about theung of these machines. I am aware that plenty oflp!e would be extremly fond of making the tour ofworld. But I am afraid, that if these machinesJ to turn out to be any way lucrative, to either the11inventor, or the proprietors of them, that Goverwould strike in as usual for the greatest share uprofits. Parliament could easily lay a heavy t:either the machines, or the passengers, and theproprietors of the machines would be reduced tsituation of mere tax gatherers. In that case perilmight have been as well for neither the copper ring«machines ever to have been thought of. But if this cltion is obviated, and it be fully determined upon, th;|copper ring shall be made, and the machines set aling on it, with travellers in them making the tmthe world. If these travellers possess any abilkall, they never can be at a loss to fine the latituothe place where they are. At least, we may ratiosuppose, that in each machine, there will be alsome passenger or another, that will know how tcthe latitude. Indeed it would be no great ditficfor all travellers, going the tour of the world, tohow to find the latitude before they set out. Itvery easy matter the finding of the latitude; butgreat ditficulty lies in the finding of the longiI would strongly recommend to engrave in le jiicharacters, on this great copper ring, so plain th;Bwho runs may read,••the degrees, minutes, and secof longitude. Travellers would then know at onethe machine whirled along the ring, what part oglobe they were upon. But in case of objectionsiiig raised against the copper ring and machines,prepared for the worst, d have got turn strings t<bow. I will submit to your consideration ancscheme. A copper ladder may be made of the'tional Debt, to reach from the earth to the nEach of the sides of the ladder will be more th;tenths of an inch in diameter, twelve inches ea'length, and Id inches asunder. As Philosopherslong disputed about the Moon’s atmosphere-height of its mountains—its seas ; The Moon’s intheir religion, their Arts and sciences, their size,H‘, &c. cvc. &c. By weans of’such a metal ladderoaid he very convenient for them to ascend, andend, to, and from the moon ; and an end mighttut to this controversy by ocular demonstration,.ve are at a great loss, for a market to dispose ofmanufactures, at present, we might open up a cor-ondance with the Lunar inhabitants, and get ouris disposed of to them, and their productions,pt he brought down to us. They would add grea-to the luxuries of the tables of our State Paupers.’-(K'K. You are very satyrical, Millar, However I must ac-f ledge, that you have not studied arithmetic in vain. You haveiished me with your wonderful calculations. I had no idea thatiational Debt was st.ch an immense sum, as the solution ofquestions shew it to he. Jiut I am firmly of opinion, that as! sation has jogged on with this burden of national debt, uponoulders, for those hundred and twenty years past: So it may. imove on for ever without stopping for a single moment.LLAli. Your sophisrp, Mr. Block, will not go down withIt brings to my mind a passage of scripture. As, “ ThereIconic in the last days scoffers, walking after their own lusts,jftying, Where is the promise of his coming ? for since the fa-!:ell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginningCreation" : So you think, that because the nation lias patient-ved on, without stopping, for these hundred and twenty years'Kinder the heavy pressure of the National Debt, that the in-jpg load will never be able to break the Nation’s hack. If so,jnust he something supernatural about (his Debt. There is a11 maximum to which the N»C'onal Debt may arrive at; hutt must stop. In order todjindnsfrate the absurdity of yourmg. for my next problem, J shall pitch upon some period, arof years hence, and allow the National Debt to accumulate,same ratio, till that year, which it has done for these hundredenty years past. From the solution, it will appear evident,e interest of flu National Debt must either'be reduced, orioie system will explode. In either case, tire Fund-holdersae losers, for tliere is no alternative.. The present National Debt commenced, and was in 16'97,CX}lX)00.In 178(51795In 1702J 740' 171717).i;T75o=C1<5..304,70245,.'12.550h'4,J0.5,7;)775,077,264146,982,3441S0718 10.1817a?266,725,037-357.008,268■ 638,451,375900,000,000H 00,000,00010Duplicato Geometrical Progression of t’oe National Debt inlions of pounds, each term being seventeen and a half years.3 4. 5 6 7 8 9 18 16 32 ' 6t 123 256 512 Ki1698 1715|- 1733 1750^ 1768 1785,]- 1803 18It appears from this statement, that the National Debt badled itself since its commencement, ISO years ago, in aboutteventeen and a half years, upon an average. Allow the nadebt in 1820, to be 1024 millions of pounds, and to continithat ratio, what will be the amount of the national debt in SOSolution. 1024 millions seuarecl= 1048576=years additional, or till anno 1995. 1048576 milsquared = 1,099,511 627,776 millions=350 yearsditional or 2345 a. d. 1,099,511,627,776 millions s< Ied= 1,208,925,819,614,629,174.706,176 millioi I700years additional; or anno 3045. Or, 1 septillionj |thousand, 925 quadrillion, 819 thousand, 614 tril629 thousand, 174 billion, 706 thousand l76millicXVII. 'Hie diameter of the earth, from the latest ex per inis 42073016 feet, A cubic fooUrf line gold is 1506.135168 lbs.weight, and a pound Troy weight of line gold is equal in vai48 pound sterling. Required how many globe of line solidand each of them as large as the globe of our earth, will the anof the National Debt he equal to, on anno 3045, according to tl:|creasing geometical progiession mentioned in last question ?Solution. The answer of the last question divideae48 gives 25185954575304774473045333333^tioy of fine gold. Then the cube of 42073016is 74501628045372347908096 feet, cube of the deler of ths earth ; then this last number multip’iec.5236, being the 6th part of 3.1416 (the circuit)fereof a circle whose diameter is one) and the productbe equal to 39009052444556961364679.0656, thehie feet in the globe of the earth. Then this lastduct being multiplied into 1506.135168 lbs. Tro-58752905757103609690560413.73354 lbs. Troygold: equal to the globe of our earth. Ans428^glof fine solid gold each of them as laige as the g)of our earth. Interest at 2] per cent = 10] glof fine gold, and each of of them as large as our et*•1*IAyr : Printed by D. JJacarter dr Co.