LIFL, TRlhX,ANDEX E CUTI ONIAGN&S. UAE. Aged 22,O WAS EXECUTKD AT- MAIDSTONE, FOR THEMURDKR OF Mil GfCOBGE WlX.SON ;WITH A COPY OF VEHSTOiKHICH SHF. WROTE BK.FORK HER EXECUTION.KDiNliLTHOH:printed for p rrnrcK. brown.One /Vrtrt?Of scifltff MWLIFE OF AGNES R \E.Miss Agnes Rae, who assassinatedWilson, on Friday, at his own residenceBingham, in the county of Kent, was ayomng lady of considerable accomplishmenand superior to the generality of her sex „personal charms. Three or four years afj lfMr Wilson’s well-known divorce from Iformer wife, he addressed Miss Rae wsuch solicitude that he seduced her. Thllived together as man and wife for nea|three years, with every appearance of domlcic comfort. About this time, Mr Wilsmet in company with a young lady who psessed a large fortune, to whom he transferihis affections, and in a short time married kUpon this, he informed Miss Rae ofchange in his affections, settled on her a sficient maintainance, and told her he shotsee her no more. After the first agoniesgrief had abated, she sent him the m|affectionate remonstrances of his conduct, di- Anested, as a last boon, one interview. Thiss refused. She still persisted by letters tove him to grant her this request; butjading him inexorable, she wrote to him,lying, thar if nothing could induce him toe • her this common act of justice, he mustepare himself for the fatal alternative, aswas determined that he should not longrvive his infidelity.COPY OF THE LETTER.‘ Dear Wilson,—That you have betrayedd abandoned the most tender and affection-2 heart that ever warmed a human bosom,nnot be denied by any person. Miserablel have been since you left me, there isill a method remaining that would suspendr a time the melancholly sufferings and dis-ss which I labour under at this moment,d still, inhuman as thou art, I am half per-iaded, when I tell you the power is in yourfinds, that you will not withhold it from me.uTiat I alude to is, permission to see youce more, and perhaps for the last time. I4.IP!would seek you in the farthest .corner of tglobe, rush into your presence, and, with t,< same rapture that nerved the arm of Ch;lotte Corday, who assassinated the monsMarat, would I put an end to the existenof a man who is the author of all the agonand care that at present oppress the heartAGNES RAE.’Receiving no answer, after waiting fo" tmonth, dressed Eerself elegantly,, and, lit,Friday morning, went to the Three 1 ui „Bingham, and took her place inside the R -ing Sun Coach, which passes near* Mr YVson's country-house. She got out at rLodge gate, and in her way up the avenwas recognised by Mr Wilson, who infor h,ed his wife that the tormenting woman R!was coming up, but that he would soon j turid of her, if she, Mrs Wilson, would ret; j;from the room. Mrs Wilson did not const ;r,to this, but prevailed on him to go up starinto the drawing-room, and leave the intview to her management.Miss Rae was then shown into a room, anda asked for Mr Wilson. She was told he was1 not at home. ‘ I’m not to be so satisfied, ma-dam,’ replied Miss Rae. ‘ I know the waystj of this house unfortunately too well, and: therefore, with your leave, I’ll search for him.’] On which she rushed up into the drawing¬room, and, finding him there, she took aknife fiom her bosom, and presented it at hisin a direction to his heart, exclaiming, ‘ I amcome, Wilson, to perform my dreadful pro¬mise,’ and instantly stabbed Wilson. Sur-I prised at him not falling, she said, ‘ Good-■ j ness, I fear I have not despatched you ; but::come and deliver me into the hands of jus-i tice. Mrs Wilson, on hearing the noise, burstlinto the room, and, seeing her husband liei bleeding, she fainted away. Upon medicalLaid being procured, it was found that thei;knife had penetrated the lowest rib, had cut(three other ribs asunder, then passed roundthe back, and grazed under the shoulder-xbone; lingering for five days, he expired ircgreat pain. She was taken into custody; andon hearing of his death, she burst into tearslamenting that she was the cause of his deathThe coroner’s inquest sat on the body on thThursday following, and returned a verdicof wilful murder against Agnes Rae;she was committed to Maidstone Jail, to takher trial at the next Assizes. His age wathirty-five.At the last Maidstone Assizes, the prisonewas placed at the bar. 7'he Judge havintaken his seat, and the Jury being sworthe footman to Mr Wilson, saw Miss Raicome into the kitchen, but did not know her(.She asked if Mr Wilson was at home. Htjtold her he was, and desired the gardener t«Jgo and shew the lady into the parlour, whilhe put on his shoes. His mistress went u;stairs to the room. He then heard his mas|ter groan several times. He went into thjroom.and found his master bleeding frorjthe breast, who e.xclaimed, ‘ O, I am stabbed)!I am murdered !’ Miss Rae threw the knil<*»on the floor, langhing, and said, ‘ There, takeand hang me, or do what you will with me,t don’t care now.’ The piisoner was thenTaken into custody.1 The judge summed up the evidence, and:he Jury returned a verdict of guilty. Thejudge then pronounced sentence upon her, tobe hanged by the neck until she be dead !The unhappy woman, at the time of her trial,was far advanced in pregnancy ; and, accord¬ing to custom, was allowed to live. A monthhfrer, she was delivered of a fine girl, to whomshe gave the name of Agnes Wilson, her se¬ducer’s. She suckled the infant child on themorning of her execution, when she request¬ed permision to suckle it again on the scaf-old when the rope was fixed about her neck,he infant was brought her, and she was al-owed to suckle it ten minutes. It was trulyidistressing to see this young Woman whener infant was taken from her. She was intate of complete insensibility, and wasobliged to be supported by the turnkey un-g ;; •• - ^. the drop fell, and she departed to that‘ bourne from wheiice no traveller returns.’0 sleep not my babe, for the morn of to-morrowWill lull me to slumbers more trariquil than thine ;1 he cold grave will shield me from shame and from sorrow,Though the deeds and the doom bf tire guilty are mine.Not long will the arm of affection enfold thbe,Not long wilt thou hang on tby mother's fond breast;Then who with the ej e of delight shall behold thee,And watch thee, and guard thee, when I at rest.Yet it doth grieve me to wake thee mv dearest,’The pangs of thy desolate mother to see ;TJJiou wilt weep when the clank of my cold chdnpt^hou bearedAmi none but my baby shall mourn over me.'Alas! my sweet babe, with what pride had I pressed theeTo tha that throbs now with Burrow and shame.;If the pure tie of virtuous affection,had blest thee, .And hailed thee the pride of tliy father’s nameI5ut now, with remorae that avails not, i mourn thee,Forsaken and friendlessrtoo soon thou "wilt be ;The world can't betray thee, but jt wdl sqoa-scorn thee,Avenging the guilt of thy mother on thee.’When the dark thought of my fate shalMlwakenThe deep blush of shame on thy inhbdent *ch«ek ;When by all, but the God of the orphap, forsaken,A home and a father in vain thou wilt seek.1 know the base world will seek to deceive thee.With falsehoods like that which tily toother beguiled ;Deserted and helpless, to whom sludl f. L/ave thee *Oh! God of the fatherless, pity my cnild.