NEW SPIRIT|| o, r • :■^€0TS WIT,COMPRISING EVERY THINGI HUMOUROUS, WITTY, OR DROLL,Worthy of Preservation,CONNECTED WITH|l SCOTTISH DROLLERY.They ca’ me Mirth; I ne’er was kendTo grumble or look sour,But blvtlie wad be a lift to lend,Gin ye wad sey my powerAn’ pith this day.Fergbsson.'KILMARNOCK:Printed by H. Crawford, Bookseller.1829.L LIBRAS.( * OF SCOTPREFACE.Scotland has from time immemorial enjoyed a due nbafaof reputation for learning and good sense, but it has gen¬erally been thought deficient in wit. This deficiency ha*been ascribed to various causes, some contending that ourdullness was owing to our high northern latitude, and tharigour of our climate.—According to the poet:“ Our Northern country seldom tastes of wit,“ The too cold clime is justly blam’d for it.”Bat time, which discovers most truths, has shewn that theiktots are a nation not destitute of wit and fancy, more thanany other people in Europe. From the period of the re¬formation indeed, there seems to have been a kind of Boeo¬tian mist that clouded the hemisphere of our learning. Theincessant quarrels of the clergy with James VI. in which thepeople took so deep an interest, engendered a severity ofmanners, and moroseness of character, ill suiting the spright¬ly sallies of wit and humour. The cruelties and severitiesexercised by tiie profligate Charles after Ids restoration, andhis bigoted brother James, on the poor covenanters, con-^iverted the people into a nation of gloomy enthusiasts, wherewit was criminal, ami humour profanity.“ Nothing our hearts could move, or fancy bribe,“Except the gibb’rish of the canting tribe.”But now that the days of religious animedty and intoler- isneenre passed awav. and the despicable jargon in whichit was carried on forgotten, Scottish wit shines out in itsgenuine lustre, founded upon good sense and a refinedWe have had “the Spirit of English Wit,” and “theSpirit of Irish Wit,” collected into a focus, while the spiritand substance of Scottish wit has been left to evaporate inthe desert air. This defect we have attempted in tome mea¬sure to remedy by bringing forward the following collection ofAnecdotes, Bon Mots, Jests, Puns, and Droll Stories, no jinconsiderable portion of which are original, which it is'iItopod will shew that the Scots are .possessed of some wit,,both in spirit and substance.THE NEWpiRIT OF SCOTS WIT.The ivay to make a Testament.iLm eld beggar man, named John, who used semelime ago to travel in the neighbourhood of Stone¬haven, was one day sitting on a stone at a gentle-Jian’s gate in the vicinity of that town, when onem.obert Jamieson, a travelling chapman, and anId acquaintance of John’s, coming that way, saidmd him, ‘Weel, John, is this you ? How are yeendin'? Hae ye been at the laird’s house yet?’;rlNa, na,’ replied the old beggar, ‘ We’re a’ de-' iai’d frae gaen there, nae puir bodies like me dare■ e seen about the young laird’s.’—‘ Waes me,tohn.’ says Rabie, ‘ But I’m thinking ye’re mairlar’d than hurt, for I’m sure there’s nae a gentle¬man in a’ the kintra >hat kens ye, wad hinder yeaae ca’ing at their house ; I’m joost gaen in toe what’s needed, an’ I’ll let ye ken how l come|n., So forward Rabie goes, and meeting the lairdjn the stair, thus accosted him : ‘ Gude day toi >ur honour, I’m tald that ye hae prohibited puir: uk frae ca’ing at the house.’—‘ Aye, Rabie,’ re-H ied the laird, ‘ Randy beggars an’ vagrants, butjj i the like o’ you, that we ken to be an honest,i tn, an’ gaen about your lawfu’ business.’ So:o the house Rabie goes, where he sold some of hislods; and, on returning, found his friend John1 the place he left him. ‘Weel, Rabie,’says John,iow hae ye far’d at the laird’s Oh,’ repliedidabie, ‘ I was received unco kindly, I sell’d a few4things, sae I think ye’ll be weel used tae.’ $they paited, and John having gathered courag;from the representations of Rabie, sets forwardand finding the laird before the l oose, he accoste;him with a ‘ Gude day to your honour, 1 hopye’re nae offended at my ca’ing at the house.’—‘ Na, na, John,’ replied the laird, ‘ What’s beerthe matter vri’ ye, that we hinna seen you thislanian’ mony a day, we thought ye'd been dead 1‘ Indeed, Sir,’ says John. ‘ I’m auld an’unco fraiban’ canna live lang ; but that’s no a’, in ye’re honcuir’sfather’s time, ^washere ahen eneugh, btnl wa.JtalJ that ye’re honour had forbidden a’ puir bodie1like me to come within the yett.’—; Na, na,’ rejoinsed the laird, ‘ No a puir worthy honest auld matlike you, John.’ He had by this time got an ink:ling that John was not so poor as he peep’d, buhad some of the precious metal concealed about hisrags. ‘ It is inneed a shame that an honest aulcman like you, has not found a resting-place to;frailty and old age before this time.’—-‘Ah, pleas*^our honour,’ replied John, ‘ The rich hae monyfriends; but what can an auld body like me expect,but to wander about till I die.’—‘ Weel John,quoth the laird, ‘ Gin ye like to stay wi’ us, I shallgie ye a bit room to bide in ; an’ your bit pick o'meat, whilk ’ill no b^ very muckle, I shall orderye that frae ihe kitchen.’ To this proposal Johnscceeded with great cheerfulness, and took imme¬diate possession of the premises, so that matter:!went on very well, when one morning the laird,looked in to see the auld man, and found hirwbreathing his last. At this premature death of the:l>*ggar, the la'rd began to regret that he had not:got him to make a will in his favour ; so while liewas musing, how to act, who should appear bunthe packman, Rabie Jamieson, whom the laird ac¬costed, ‘ Ah, dear .-Tie, R tbie, isna auM J hhjoost:len now dead, an’ am thinkin* he*s worth some31er, an’ he’s made nae settlement o’ his affairs .able, ye’re a gay auld fan en chiel, now how do yeink I should act in this case ?’—‘ Ah,’ says Rabie,':l)fe’re honour kens far better how to behave your-' 1’ than I can advise; but an* I war to act or belr usted in the matter, get a notary from Stonehaven,[ [V I will tak John’s place in the bed, an’ mak aUlstament to please ye.’ This being agreed upon,Habie goes into the beggar’s apartment, lifts the|prps out of the bed, and laid them underneath ;id having equipped himself in the pauper’s habil-'i rents, lay down in the bed till the arrival of theibtary. When being seated, the laird addressed[e supp®sed mendicant, ‘ Weel, John, by all ap-arance, ye’ie gaeing to pay the debt o’ nature,we must all do, but for the sake of order, andr avoiding a’ disputes, 1 think you should tellis gentleman what little property ye’re possessedand how ye mean to dispose o’t.’—4 O ! Sir,*, ys the pretended John, ‘ Gudekens my thoughtsi.iiou’d be employed about ither matters, but inosedience to your honour’s desire, I’ll do what Ihtn to satisfy ye.’—‘Weei, John,’ says the laird,tfe’ve a muckle pockfu’ o’ bawbees, wha are yeiji’en to leave them to?’—‘ To ye’re honour, surelyme deserves them better.’—An’, John, here’s abxfu’ o’ sixpences, shillings, half-crowns, anvi awns, wha gets them?’—■ Ye’ie honour, ye weeli! iserve them, for your kindness to me.’—4 An’ like--liise, John, here’s a bill on the Aberdeen bank, forJ hundred pounds, wha’s to be the heir o’ that ?*• —i'0an' please ye’re honour, I canna pit that pasti yauld friend Rabie Jamieson.’—4 What do ye say,n ihn, ye’re surely raving, think what ye’re about ?’—) ! ye’re honour, Rabie an’ me war bairns tbe-ther at the school, an’ we’ve been friends a’ ourdays, sae I canna pit the bill past Rabie,’ T..e6liiird Sailing he stood in a delicate situation, and thbusiness being over, the laird went out with thinotary to convoy him home; and by the time h,returned, Rabie had replaced the dead beggar i:his bed. On the laird’s entry he accused Rabie 0acting unfairly, and devising suck a large shat e athe beggar’s propet ty to himself. ‘Ah! your hortour’, says Rabie, ‘Charity begins at hame, anthem that maks testaments, an’ forgets theKisel’iare fools!’Magisterial Wisdom.In a certiain royal burgh, not a hundred mile$from the Scottish metropolis, a medical officer re^cently waited on one of the Bailies to make the re.fpiisite affidavit for receiving his half-pay, when thefollowing dialogue took place ; BatHc—Weel, Mr, , are ye no tired o’ this kind o’ life ? Officer—Very tired, Bailie, indeed : I am very anxious tflprocure professional employment, but it is noteasily to be had at present. Bailie—No ; no easyto be got, I dare say ; but micht na ye go out tcVan Deeman’s land : plenty o’ settlers there noo.Officer—Plenty cf settlers, Bailie, but greater plen*ty of medical men; the towns are over-run withthem. Bailie—Weel, weel, man, but said you no;go up to th’ interior? Officer—The interior! Bailie iwhy, there is nothing in the interior but Kanga¬roos.—Bailie—What o’ that, man ? what o’ that ?!is na a Kangaroo’s siller just as gude as ony itherman’s fThe Inconvenience cf a Petition.A Reverend Gentleman, when visiting his par¬ishioners, was in one house first saluted with thevewling of a dog, and afterwards by the cheeringijice of a female, d—ning the dog for his ill bieed-g. He advanced and enquired fof the master of'e house. ‘What do ye want with that/’ said! e female. ‘ We are wishing to see him,’ said thar everend Gentleman, ‘ wnll you be so good asjling him to us?’ ‘ I’ll gang nae sic an’ errand,'!id $he ; ‘ ye may gang doon to the market yoursel'’ ye’ll see him there ; they’re thrang killin they. But what was ye wanting wi’ Pate, if a bodyi icht speir.’ ‘ This is the minister,' said the elder::ho accompanied him,’ ‘he is wishing to havei:me conversation with Peter, and to put up a pe-fiion,' ‘A petition! a petition !’ exclaimed theatron, ‘ ye’ll put up nae petition here ; the housewee eneugh already, an’ wha do ye think’s gannbe fashed wi’ masons and wrights an’ a’ the clam-fray about their house ? Faith nc—the devil aunion will be putten up in this house as laog asm in’t; we’re gaun to flit at Whitsunday, so yeay come then an’ put as many petitions as ye like.’The Last Crave.Old M (whose propensity for amassing thisjrld’s goods, was known to every person in theighbourhood) being about to leave this sublun-ry scene, was visited, at the request of his rela-ons, by a neighbour, whose piety far exceeded hisealth.The Laird was too low to notice his visitor, whoproceeded to offer a prayer in behalf of the expiringnner. During this exercise, the Laird recoveredfar as to recognise the voice of his neighbour ;id at the close, expressing a desire to converse withim. His relations shed tears of joy-—room at ths8bedside was made for the pious man, and the Lairwith great labour muttered, ‘ Weel, John—there'—a wee—bit account—o’ five shillings—stan’s atween us—I wish man—ye would settle’t.’ Johi 'i-stood in silent astonishment, and the Laird added :‘ Its been lang—awn ye ken-’ John promised t(settle it next day ; and M shut his eyes con rtentedly. The next day came, and John cami :with the money; but the Laird was gone to settle1an account of more importance.The Pease-Brort.One of the late Earls of Eglinton, being one dayUpon a hunting excursion, was suddenly overtakenwith a violent shower of rain near one of 1 is farmsteadings; when he and his party, sprang in toshelter its peltings. The first object that presented)itself, w as a group of children assembled round a\large plale~ful of Pease-lrose, ‘ what is this you've:got,’ enquired the Earl: the oldest of the grcupireplied, ‘ it’s Pease-brose what, Pease-brose to-your dinner, said the Earl astonished, ‘ Ay,’ saidthe boy, ‘ and What do you get to your breakfast,’said the Earl ‘ Pease-brose too,’ answered the boy,,‘ and what do you get to your supper,’ enquiredthe Earl farther, ‘just Pease-brose too,’ said the*1boy; what, ‘doyou’get nothingelse but Pease*brose,said the Earl, ‘No,’ says the boy, ‘ and what delyou make of all your Meal, Potatoes, and Kye,that your father raises;’ the boy with a look ofastonishment, replied, ‘ that muckle buitor b—Eglinton gets them a’,’ the reply struck the Earlso forcibly, that ever after he took notice of the-family.Liberty of the Press.1 A. mas ter-tail or in Glasgow, lately reading thenewspapers to his family, and when expressing the:tle, Liberty r,f ti>e Press in France^ one of his daugh-irs interrupted him, by asking, what the Libertythe Press meaned ? ‘I’ll soon answer that ques-Jn,’ said he ; ‘ You know when your mother goesit, and leaves the key in the cup-brard door,:iihere the bread, butter, and sugar lyes, then yonIve access :—That’s the Liberty o' the Press It—100—Sour Milk Wholesale.Some time ago, the frolics of the Honourable.r. made a great noise in the newspapers.he following records one of his most whimsicalfpts of folly :—(| One morning, after having danced all night atjj!i assembly, he sauntered out, with the Marquis-jji leaning on his arm ; and in crossing St.fajLndrew’s Square, found an old rustic 'landing be-|>re the door of Dumbreck’s Hotel, with his cart■ill of bu'ter-milk barrels. He quickly concertedrffith the Marquis a scheme of fun, whereby theilk of the old man found a very different destinywhat its owner intended. They first jumped upfront of the cart, seized the halter, and galloped|tf, leaving the poor man to follow as best heuld—then took out all the spiggots, and in grandyle drove along Geerge-stteet, past the Assembly.ooms, to the astonishment of the fashionablesbom they had lately left ; then down Frederick-eet, along Prince's-street, and back again to St.ndrew’s Squire, all the time followed by the oldilk-man, who, in the agony of his heart, at see-10ing hii valuable propsity deluging the causewayexhausted his whole vocabulary of exclamationsin giving vent to his indignation. With his skyblue top coat flying behind him, and his rougk tshod heels striking fire from the pavement, he pur* nsued his ravished cart, shouting as loud as his ex*hausted lungs would permit, ‘ O, ye unhanged ■blackguards!—ye villains!—ye deil’s buckles l— ••I’llha’e the law o’ ye, gin there be law in Embrugh, iye vagabonds!—I’ll get ye a better house than) 2your father ever biggit, for ye, ye rascals!—[’111 :get ye clappid up as sure as ye’re leevin’, ye ram¬paging Embrugh hallanshakers !’ As soon as he;anived at the Hotel, the Marquis delivered thereins into his hand ; but blue-bonnet vowed he-would not quit him, till he had ascertained his name,and that of his companion. Mr.  put hishand into his pocket, and drew out a piece of pa- .1per, which he said contained the required addres*ses j and while the old man unfolded it, our youngheroes took the opportunity to escape. The bit ofpaper turned out to be a ten pound note, ‘ Ah,stop, my bonny lads,’ cries the appeased milkman,‘ I've something to say t’ye—Wtii ye need ony mairmilk the morn ?’Advantages of Education.Sir William B ——— being at a parish meeting,made some proposals, which were objected to by afarmer. Highly enraged, ‘ Sir,’ said he to thefarmer, ‘do you know, Sir, that l have been attwo Universities, and at two Colleges in each Uni¬versity r* ‘ Weel, Sir,’ said the Farmer, ‘ what o’that ? I had a calf that sucked twa kye, an’ the ob¬servation I made was, the mair he sucked the great¬er calf he grew.’Keathfi for eot resting in the Grave,ul Some years ago, when it Was discovered that thebdy of a female had been taken from the buryingiijroimd belonging to a certain Gxiic chapel, theMinister meeting a surgeon, w'eli known for his cc-njrntricities, thus accosted him ; ‘ Well, Doctor, isjh not a strange thing that the dead cannot get leave."> rest in their graves now »O ma good sir,’ saidte surgeon, * She could never lye yoi^g-—the.tiloman hadca a single word of Gatlic.’-0-yf Canny Scot.The other day a person in th's neighbourhoodving been asked to subscribe a petition to Parha-nt against Catholic Concessions, astonished theuerist with this novel reason for refusing to addignature to that of his neighbours. liis ownords are best:—* Me sign ? Na, na, I’ll no playsell that pliskey wi* my e’en open. Me sign !us just downright destruction if ye look to the up-4hot. Can ye no see that the Romans hae it a’iqiheir ain way up yonder, and in less than a blinkhey’ll get the whip hand o' us again —Well, andwhat then ? ‘ Deed they’ll just harl ower a’ thirpetitions, pick out my name and the lik o’ me thati ign against them, to work us mischief and wasteybur plenishing—Na na, I’ll keep my craig out o’aM ether, and my ribs frae the gulley as lar.g as Injean.’Speaking out in Church*A most amusing instance of speaking out in churchccurred some years ago in the church ol The12minister, in preaching upon the story of Jonah, ut« *tered a piece of declamatory rhetoric to something ?like the following effect :—1 And what sort of afish was it, my brethren, that God had appointedthus to execute his holy will ^ Was it a shark, myi.brethren i No—it could not be a shark ; for GoJcould never have ventured the person of h's belovedprophet amongst the teeth of that ravenous fish:What fish was it, then, my brethren? Was it msalmon, think ye ? A.h, no ; that were too nar- •row a lodging. There’s no ae salmon i’ the#deepest pule o’a’ Tweed could swallow a man. Be¬sides, ye ken, its mair natural for men to swallowf isalmon, than salmon to swallow men. What, then,, ,was it ? Was it a sea lion, or a sea horse, or a sealdog, or the great rhinoceros ? Oh, no ! These arel1not Scripter beasts ava. Ye’re as far aff’t as ever, jWhich of the monsters of the great deep was it, canye tell me r”—Here an old spectacled dame, whohad an eleemosynary seat on the pulpit-stair, think*ing that the minister was in a real perplexity aboutthe name of the fish, interrupted him with, ‘ Hoot,sir, it was a whale, ye ken’—Out upon ye, yougraceless wife that you are,’ cried the orator, so en¬raged, as almost to fly out of the pulpit at her;‘ thus to take the word out of the moutn of God’sminister!’—coo y/ Consoling Reflection*Dreghorn is a little village between Kilmarnockand Irvine, where the inhabitants, like true Israel¬ites, can count for many generations back, and al¬so reverence the habitation of their forefathers.Like the Chinese, they are very tenacious of stran¬gers ; and they all draw close round the graves of13eir ancestors, In this very ancient and trulyiserable-looking clachan, lived Rab and Jean,Wha after mony bappy days o’ loove and strife,Waes me ! left Jean a mourning widowed wife,an, who naturally loved the genuine spirit of ns.ebaugh, was pouring out her sorrows in floods •tears, while she continued to fill the vacuumith her beloved fluid, which only gave strengthher acclamations, and noise to her grief; whenprovidentially a neighbour stepped in, to comforthe afflxted with the usual phrases in such cases,J hereat Jean rubbed up her eyes, and answered,’ a. weel I war, what need 1 grieve mysel’?—he'fas na a hereawa’ man—he came frae the Water| Ayr.’—coo—A Highland C Lief lain.The late Laird of M'—b, a Highland Chieftain,o prided himself in rearing-pye bald horses, sp¬ared on one at Leith races, which being slenderlyde, slipped its shoulder in the crown, whichused M‘—b to be hissed from the course —Neitar he again made his appearance mounted on-•'ther animal of the same kind, some one of theinburgh wags having accosted him, asked ifat was the same horse he rode last year ? He'llimediately replied in the Highland dialect, ‘ No!At, by G—d, it is the same whip,’e fellow a complete drubbing.and sogave-000—Repartee of a Lady of Quality.A Lady of distinction in Scotland, one of theu reatest beauties in that part of the kingdom, in-curred the displeasure of the Earl, her husband, forno other cause thin that of having brought himseven daughters, and no heir to his tides and es¬tates. His Lordship even assured her, that heshould sue for a divorce ; when she replied, thathe need not be under the necessity of doing that,for she would agree to a separation, provided hewould give her back what he received with her.The Earl, supposed she alluded to pecuniary affairs,assured her she should have her fortune returned tothe last penny. ‘ Nae, nae, my Lord,’ replied thebonny Scot, ‘that winna do, you mun return memy youth, my spirits, and my innocence, and dis¬miss me as soon as you please.’ His Lordshipbeing unable to comply with these terms, spoke nsmore on the subject; and the following year theywere blessed with a son, which event firmly ce¬mented their affections for each other.A Rane to Pyke.Some boys diverting themselves in one of thestreets of Edinburgh, observed on a door, a brassplate with Al—x—nd-r Guthrie, W. S. engravedon it. In their diversion, they broke a pane of glassin one of the windows, upon which Mrs. Guthrieand the maid sallied forth and seized one of thedelinquents. ‘ Ye young rascal, what’s ye’re name!’says the lady, ‘ Sandy,’ replied the boy. ‘ What’sye’re ither name ?’—‘ Guthrie.’—‘ Wha’s ye’re mith-jer ?'—‘My mither sells burd’s cages ’—‘ VVhardoesshe live ?’—I’ the Patter Raw.’—' Wha’s ye’re fa¬ther ?’—'I dinna ken.’—‘Do ye no ken ye’re fa¬ther?’—‘Na! he ne’er comes but whan it’s dark,an‘ naebody kens bit my micher.’ Upon hearingthis, the lady in a passion let go her victim, and15■unning into the room where her husband was sit-uling, fell a-scolding him like a fury about his inji-Jeli/y. The young rogue laughed heartily at themccess of liis fraud, and turning to his companions,said to them, ‘ J think I've gi en her a Lane to pyke !’v  o—-How to escape Robbery-A person extremely hard of hearing, travellingloetvreen Paisley and Greenock on horseback, someciltime since, had occasion to come cfFhis horse, when(the reins slipped from among his fingers : the horselanding himself at liberty im medially ran off. Theitjpeaf man quickly follow'ed, determined to enquire»|jit all he met if they had seen his horse: the nightwas very dark ; however, he had not gone far t:lljie met two men, whom he rccosted with, ‘ did youi.ee a horse without a rider,’ when he was imme-iately collared, lie thought in diversion ; says lie,that's no the way to use a man in the dark anddeavoured to shake himself clear, when instead ofacking their hold, they took fresh and firmerolds; and no doubt using violent language, ofdiich his deafness deprived him of hearing ; seeing11 attempts to get cleat fruitless, and dreading thathey had the intention to rob him ; it instant-i y occurred to him, his having an ear frumps/ stick-| ig in the top of his boot, which he used in conver-I ation, he immediately pulled it up, laid the mnzzleif it across the fellows arm, and exclaimed, ‘ If you: ion’t let go your grups, I’ll blaw your brains outn a moment,’ In a moment they w-ere over aifiedge, and out of sight instantly, the deaf man..calling after ‘ set aff, set aff, my lads, or I’ll beiitthe death o’ baith o’ you, learn never to meddle wi*II man in the dark, for ye dinna ken what deadlyvweapons he carries,’Supervisor in Danger.A.* a Supervisor was making one of his dailyvisits to a fan Work, and strutting aSout very Inst-ily, looking and examining every thing with anil®air of dignified contempt, was straddling amongjl1'the tan*holes, when unfortunately he plumped in toll1one of them ; he roared with all his m'ght, fonlsomebody to pull him out of th s stinking hole,'|‘;‘ Na, na, Sir,’ says one of the men, ‘ We daurnado that; for we daurna draw a single hide, till wegi’e twal hours notice to thae Gauger Bodies! GOG Nae Bids to Pay,Two or three Manufacturers met one ewenine'J'to drown a few of their afflict! ms in a comfortable*glass of toddy; and talk over a long list of distres-;ses, so common to that class of individuals. Find**ing their happiness increase as they indulged in'their p 'rations, they continued it to a very earlyhour, till bright phabits at length gave them a suin^!mons, which brought along with it a remembrance!of their former mtdancholy reflections : however,the reckoning being settled, and journeying home¬ward with the summer sun darting forth its morn¬ing rays ; the birds were whistling most joyfully,when one of the party suddenly turning round, ex¬claimed, ‘ Aye, faith ye may whtstie, ye hae naeBills to pay,’ 0Q0 Daft Will Sp ies.Will, one day upon his journey to Eglintcn Cas¬tle, to pay his regular daily visit, met his Lordship,417irho seemed not to notice him : the Earl being on-iiir on a walk of pleasure through his Polices, soonf lame in contact with Will again sitting at the hot-i‘jpm of a tree, picking a huge bone ; ‘ Ay, ay,’Ijays the Earl, 4 whaPs this you’ve got noo, Will,'Ay, ay,’ says Will, anew o’ frien’s whan folk hashjcht, ye gaed by me a weesin’ an’ ne’er loot on ye' w me.’—eoo—si Rural Philotopher.> Some time since, two of our west country farm¬'s forgathered at market, and after hailing eachliitber with the usual kindly salutation of4 How's’ a’i’ ye John,’ and How’s a’ wi’ yoursel, James,’th set tooth and nail to pull the weather to pieces,d to rate the skies for their inclemency. 4 It’sen growing caulder and caulder spring afterring, and simmer after simmer, thir dizen years,’marked John. 4 Atweel has it,’ responded James,t’s aye getting the langer the waur—-ilka day’surer and sneller than its neihour—it’s out of a’ason. How do ye account for’t, John, on she-cn-'c principles r’ 4 Really,’ said the rural philosopher;iho had sucked deepest at the font of knowledge,oudna* lippen mvself perfytely to explain theuse, but ye ken weel eneuch that as this warld rinsund on its aixtree ; it is but reasonable to suppose,3i Jging of causes by their effects, that the gudgeon4 the north end has been made o’ safter metal thanf lat at the south, and has just worn faster awa’—theif ishot o’ whilk is, that wi’ every whirl round theijaild takes, it will get a bit jauchle and hitch mairJurthert, till there’s nae saying hew soon we mayt.|l laired a’ thegither in frost and snaw for ever.’spiech man,’ sighed James, pulling up his cordu-18toys vith desperate energy, and shiveneg to tkechin at the very thought of such a consummation-rr« Hech man, and that will ba a cauld clyte to th#feck o’ us.*—tOtf—March of Intellect*Two country carters, passing the entrance to theArcade, Argyle Street, Glasgow, observed paint¬ed on the wall, no dogs to enter here. No dogs toenter here ! exclaimed one of them, Pra sure there’snae use for that there. What way, Jock, repliedthe other. ’Cause dogs canna read signs, said he,Ha, ha, Jock, ye’re may be wrang, Pse warran yegentle folk’s dogs ’ill ken’t brawley, for there’sschools, noo, whar they learn the dumb baith toread an’ speak.—cQv—Scotch yldventares*The Russians and Turks, in the war of 1739,having diverted themselves long enough in the con¬test, figreed to treat of a peace. The commission¬ers for this purpose were, Marshal General Keith*>n the part of Russia, and the Grand Vizer on thatof Turkey. These two personages met, and car¬ried on their negotiations by means of interpreters.When all was concluded, they rose to separate ;Keith made his bow with his hat in hand, and dieViser his salam with his turban on his head. Butwhen these ceremonies of taking leave were over,the Vizer turned suddenly, and coming up to Mar¬shal Keith, took him cordially by the hand, andin the broadest Scotch dialect, declared warmlyhat it made him unco happy to meets countrym.)an his exalted station. Keith stared with astonish¬ment, eager for an explanation of this mystery,jjrhen the Vizer added, dinna be surprised, man ;I’m o’ the same country wi’ ycursel. I min’ wreeljseein’ you an’ your brither, when boys, passin’ byto the school at Kirkaldy ; my father, sir, was beli-nan o' Kh kaldy.What mere extraordinary can be imagined, than|;o behold, in the plenipotentiaries of two mightynations, two foreign adventurers, nativesof the samemountainous territory; nay, of the same village!iWhat, indeed, more extraordinary, unless it be thespectacle of a Scotchman turned Turk for the sakeof honours, held on the tenure of a caprice, fromwhich even Scotch prudence can be no gauranteei—0O0—Scottish Prudence.A Parish-clerk in the North of England, notllotig ago, hired a Scotchman for his servant, who; was to go at the cart and plough, and do other oc-i casional jobs when wanted. In the course of con-!i| versation at hiring, the clerk asked him, if he couldi submit to the unpleasant businesss of diggingJ graves ? to which he exclaimed, I’ll warrant yefi maister, I cou’d dig doon the kirk for that matter;i but let me see, I has’nt been put to that wark yet;l aye, our auld bellman at Jedburgh us’d to say he> never had bstter pay nor better jobs than howking' holes for folk—faith he was ay rnerry when folkdeed.— It happened soon after entering on his ser¬vice, that there was a severe storm of snow, whichimpeded all out-door work. One morning hecame to his master, and asked him what employ¬ment he was to go to that day. The employer20hesitated for some moments, and at last told hie*he could find nothing for him to do. Sawney, withgreat gravity, replied, I think maister, I’ll awa”up to the kirk-yard an’ howk some graves ; we mayas weel ha’e a wheen ready, for they may comefaster in when they ken we are prepar’d for them. (—000 ■ »Trusting to Providence.One time in harvest, it came a rainy day, andthe Ettrick began to look very big in the evening.:Willie Candlem, perceiving his crop in danger, yck*-ed the white mare in the sledge, and was proceed4ing to lead his corn out of watermark ; but outcame Meggie, and began expostulating with himon the sinfulness of the act.—put in your beast a«gain, like a good Christian man, Willie, said she,and dinna be setting an ill example to a’ the parish!Ye ken, this vera day the minister bade us lippemto Providence in our straits and we wad neverrue’t. He’ll tak it very ill of your hand, the set¬ting of sic an example on the Lord’s day; therefore,Willie, my man, take his advice and mine, andlippen to Providence this time. Willie Candlent'was obliged to comply ; for who can withstand theartillery of a woman’s tongue ? So he put up h;swhite mare, and went to bed with a heavy heart;and the next morning, by break of day, when hearose and looked out, behold the greater part ofbis crop was gone. Ye may take up your Provi¬dence now', Meggie! Where’s your Providencenow ? A’ down the water vvi’ my com ! Ah ! Iwould trust mair to my gude white mare than toyou and your Providence baith ! Meggie answer¬ed him meekly, as her duty and custom was—OWillie ! dinna rail at Providence, but down to the21tweadow-heacl and claim first. Willie CandlentjjpHjk the hint, galloped on his white mare down toi ic Ettrick meadows, over which the river spread,fmnd they were covered with floating sheave*; so,Villie began and hauled out, till he had at leastix times as much corn as he had lost. At lengthsfcne man came, and another, but Willie refused ailpartition of the spoil. Ay, ye may take up your:i:arn now where you can find it, lads, said Willie ;i kepit nane but my ain. Yours is gane fartherf low n. Had ye come when I came, ye might havec:i:eppit it a’. So Willie drove and drove, till thet acky ard was full. 1 think the crop has turn’d no1 out after a’, said Meggie : you’ve been nae theaur o’ trusting to Providence. Na, replied Willie,•Jijior o’ taking your advice, Meggie, and gangingi|own to kep and claim at the rr.eadow-head.-005-Philosophy.The following grand display of knowledge inexperimental Pnilosophy, was lately made by ajperson w'ho has a guid gift o’ the gab, and can talkslfluently on every subject. Discussing the meritsj|pf a gentleman, whose activity in Public. Institutionss well known, this man of words concluded with,slhe body wants to be at the head of every thing.-iL—d man, if ye had seen him at the lectures o’| that duel, what-ye-ca-him —Murray,—he wadi gotten up there an’ driven the Galvanic Battery,ill ye wad a thocht there could na been a hail nickl eft in either wheel or pinion.-000-Cotquhoun Grant.Colquhoun Grant, who, when a young man, hadsignalized himself in the army of Prince Charles, af-lerwards settled down in the cool and decorou oY*|f;tizen. As one of tne numerous and respectable c^Jf'of Writers to the Signer, he is said to have eierte^i‘-she pen to as good effect as he had formerly playeirthe sword ; and in advanced age, he was noted as s iman who both knew how to acquire money, anchow to preserve it when it was acquired. There issomething melancholy, and not altogether agreeable, iin the idea, that the same mind which had been til. ;led with chivalrous fervour in the brilliant campaigni'of 1715, should have subsequently devoted its glow. ;ing energies to the composition of law.papers, and.the acquisition of filthy lucie. Yet, that he never •became altogether insensible to the enthusiasm which 'excited his youth, seems to be proved by the follow.ing anecdote.Mr. Ross of Pitcalnie, representative of the an* <eient and noble family of Ross, had, like Colquhoun SGrant, been out in the Forty-Five, and consequently tlived on terms of intimate friendship with that gen- Htleman. Pitcalnie, however, had rather devoted ihimself to the dissipation than the acquisition of a 5;fortune; and while Mr. Grant lived as a wealthywriter, he enjoyed little better than the character ofa broken laird. This unfortunate Jacobite was oneday in great distress, for want of the sum of fortypounds, which he could not prevail upon any sf hisfriends to lend to him, all of them being aware ofhis execrable character as a debtor. At length heinformed some of his companions that he believedheshouldgetwhat he wanted from Colquhoun Grant;and he instantly proposed to make an attempt. Allwho heard him scoffed at the idea of his squeezinga subsidy from so close-fisted-a man, and some evenoffered ro lay bets against its possibility. Mr. Ros*accepted the bets, and lost no time in applying tohis old brother in arms, whom he found immuredia his chambers, half a dozen flights of steps up•I f Stni23|avlnloch's land, in the Lawnmarket. The con>iTsatioa commenced with the regular comnaon-naces, and lor a long time Pitcalnie, gave no hintat he was suing in forma pauperis. At length hejightly hinted the necessity under which he lay foritrifle of money, and made bold to ask if Mr. GrantJiiuld help him in a professional way. What a pi¬ll., Pitcalnie, replied the writer, you did not applyterday! I sent all the loose money I had to thek just this forenoon. It is, for the present, quiteiyond redemption. Oh, no matter, said Pitcalnie,d continued the conversation, as if no such re-i itesc had been preferred. By and by, after somenjore topics of an ordinary sort had been discussed,p at length introduced the old subject of the Forty-ve, upon which both were alike well prepared toeak. A thousand delightful recollections thenshed upon the minds of the two friends, and, ine rising tide ot ancient feeling, all distinction ofrrower and lender was soon lost. Pitcalnie watch-the time when Grant was fully mellowed by thenversation, to bring in a few compliments upon(Grant’s) own particular achievements* Hepatiated upon the bravery which his friend hadown at Preston, where he was the first man to go? to the cannon ; on which account, he made outatthe whole victory, so influential to the Prince’s aflf-rs, was owing to no other than Colquhoun (j-rant,ow writer to the signet, Gavinloch’s land, Lawn-arket, Edinburgh. He also adverted to the bold-ess Mr. Grant bad displayed in chasing a band of:creant dragoons from the field of battle up to thery gates of Edinburgh Castle ; and further, uponie dexterity which he subsequently displayed inraking bis escape from the town. Bide a wee, saidr. Grant, at this stage of the conversation, till lang ben the house. He soon returned with the sumitcalaie wanted, which he said he now recollectedhaving left over for some time in the shottles of hrprivate desk- Pitcalnie took the'money, continue*the convexsation for seme time longer, and then toolan opportunity of departing. When he came bacljto his friends, every one eagerly asked, What suecess i Why there’s the money, said he ; where aifmy bets ? Incredible ! every one exclaimed ; ho* |in the name of wonder, did you get it out of hintlfDid ye cast glamour in his een : Pitcalnie explainedthe plan he had taken with his friend , adding, vitfflan expressive wink. This forty’s made out o’ the bat.tie of Preston ; but stay a wee, lads; I’ve Fa’kimi’ my pouch yet—by my faith, I wadna gie it fo|mighty !— ooo—EPITAPHTo the Memory of Lord Boyd, Kilmarnock^., IS THE LOW CHURCH.i Heir lies yt godlie, noble wyis lord Boyd, |Quha kirk, & king, & commin weili decoir’d,Quhilke war (quhill they yis jovvell all injoyd)Defendit, counsaild, governd he that lord.His ancient hous (oft paneld) he restoird.Twyis sax & saxtie zeirs he lived and s)ne.By death (ye ihrid ofjanuare) devoird.la anao thryis fyve hundreth auchtye nyne.mis.