NEW SONG,%CALLED,Bonaparte’s Cornin’:O R.,Roufe Brother Britons!To which are added,Aftonifliing Abraham Newlands,Bonny Annie,And, The JOVIAL BEGGAR.FALKIRK-; T, JOHNSTON, PRINTER.BONAPARTE’S COMIN’ :OR,RROUSE BROTHER BRITONS.[By £ DUFF, Logie-Almond-House ]Publifhed by defire of His Grace, JOHN, Duke of Athol,Lord Lieutenant of Perth(hire,&c. andGen.M'Donald.Bon VPAPvTE’s cornin’, they’re tellin’ uswhat he’s do when he comes;He thinks we’re fae feaj’d o’ his numbers,we’ll rin at the found o’ his drums:But roufe Brother Britons an’ meet him,an’ fhaw him our hearts are o’ Heel;We’ll face him, an’ fiftht him, an’ beat him,an’ fend him to France or the De’il.Then wha-wadna be a brave fodger,an’ fi^ht for his country an’ laws,Afore we will yield to a Tyrant,we’ll die in the glorious caufe.He’s braggin’ he’ll tak’ a’ cur filler,an’ learn us a new Country dance;And then he will lift our bit Hland,an’ carry it wi’ him to France.But come when he likes he’ll be cheatit,ah’ that he u’iJ! fin’ to his coll,For tho’ h- ’s the Aufh ians defeatit,in Br.tons he never fhall boaft.Then wha wadna be, See,( 3 )lie’s thinkin’ to brig owre the Channel,an’ iyne lie’ll come hither thy thcd ;But faith gin h ave Nellon meet wi’ him,I dread he’ll come fhort > ’ the road:For Nelfon he is a brave faiior,an’ Bonaparte k ns that fh’ vveel;For brauly he minds o’ the cirubt in*he gat frae him ance at the Nile.Then wha wadna be, SeeNow we hae baith fodgers an’ tailors, ", an’ plenty o’ fine Volunteers,Wi’ routh o’ Militia an’ Yeomen,then what live milhanter can tear’s ?We’ll laugh at their threaten’d invtfion,our hearts to cm K ng areTae true,We’ll fian’ or wt’ 1 ta’ by our colours,an’ fwear by the Red an’ the Blue.1 In n wha wadna be, Sec,Oar King an’ our Country commands us,our Lioerty. Lav'S, an’our Lives,An’ vha ’. ftill as dear yet as a’ that,' our H nour, our Creed, an’ our Wives.The- let us unit' to. defend them,an liter the lilts Volunteer,An’ tell the proud L ilican yrant,we want nae French f. (hi us the year,'fheir wna wadi,a b , See.Now fi 1 up a bumper to Nelfnn,to Duncan, St, V ince nt ui ’ If we,Lik'ewile to brave Krith an’ >Srr Sidney,while.Lturds encircle their brow.( 4 )An’ here’s to each fodder an’ Tailor,that’s beat him by land an’ by Tea ;An’ iT they attempt to invade us,lure beaten again they (hall be-Then wha vvadna be, &c,O > >X<>X< < OASTONISHING .ABRAHAM N E W L A N D.J^IeVER. was a man fo baHdifd by Earns,t hro* air, thro’ ocean, and tiiro’ land,As one that is wrote upon evtry Bank Note,And you all mud know Abraham Newlahd.O! Abraham Ncwland !Notorious Ahrai.am NtwlAnd!Tve btard people lav-, lham Abraham you may,But you mus’n’t fliam Abral-ram Newlaud.For fashion or arts, fltould you fe.ck fortign parts,it matters not, wiere-tver you Land;From Chrillian to Gietkall language will fpeak,If the language of Abraham Newland.O ! Abraham New’and !Aftonilhing Abfaharn Newlar.d !Whatever you lack,, you’ll get i.* a crack,By the credit cf Abraham Newland.But what do you thi«?k, without viidusls or drink,You may tramp like the wand’ring J°v? land,From Dublin to Dover, nay, all the world over,J[f a Granger to Abralnm Newlaud..( 5 )O !‘Abraham Newlsrd !Wonderful Abraham Neu Irnd !Tho? with coajj'bmetits craiutfi’d, you may die outof hand,If you haven't an Abrah-m N^wiand,The world are inclin’d to th.^k Juftice is blind,Yet l^avJ^rs know wt-11 !j-e can view land;But what of all that ?—ih&’l! blink bke a tt<i#At the fight of a friend, Abraham Newland.O ! Abraham Newland !Magical Abraham Nev/bnd !Tho’ Jnlhce, ’tis kitown, can fee thrc’ a mUl-fione,She can’J fee thro’ Abraham iSewland.#,Your Patriots who bawl, the good of us all,And, gooo fouls, like mufhrootns they llrew land,But thu' loud as a c um, each proves Orator Mum,If attack'd by fidut Abraham Newlai.d.O 1 Abraham Newbpd !Invincible Abraham Nrv-lJrd.No argument’s found in the world half fo found,As the logic of Abrahaftn New land.The French f y they’re coating, but furely they’rehumming;We know what they want, if tbtey do lan4:But wo’|l make their x if* ring in defence of out KingC;ur country and'Abrahrm Newland.O 1 Abraham Nr wi nd !Excellent Abraham Newlaud!No tri-eoiour’d elf, tier the tevil hunfclf,Sl.yll rob us of Abraham Newlcnd,( 6 )BONNY A N N I E.IT was on a day in the middle of April,I went to Loughniay the maids to brguile,My dear, and my jewel, my honey, faid he,Will ye go to the North Highlands with me.ISlany broad letters to Annie l did fend.The old wife, her mother, (he d d apprehend,From whence conies all thel’e broad liters faid fhe,'•They come from Drymenus, laid Annie, ta me.I went to Dry menus, my Annie to fee.Bat tittle 1 thought what fhould happen to me ;I went to Drytne,’Us, fo b’ Id. was myfel’.Ami die bid me to call at the iign of the Bill.But I flopt at the Tree till fhe came, as you fee,Add I foon made her glad ‘or to follow with me..Look up bon'-y Annie, and never look down,And well I do grant you need never frown.She look’d tmto me with a blythe blinking eye,For I knew ihe was fond for to follow with me:The night it is cold, and my clothing is thin, vAnd a far way to go, I’ll die or I win.The night ft is cold* and I know you’re afraid.But I’ll kindly roll you in my braw Highland plaid ;Your pitiful pay it makes me for to fay,How can I Jive well on a fixpence a-day ?There’s twopence f- r fisgar. & twopence for tea,And twopence for b fk-'t and all is away :But a Captain’s coinnnlflon perhaps may befaj,When you Hiali get Madam from both great.& fm»l!.( 7 )Both n filss ar.d ribbons, *nd all fiiall go free,When o! ce (he is ki the North Highlands with me:And a broad down-btd to my Annie I’ll gi’e,When oncejhe is in the North Highlands with me.The nigh' it is cold, and inclining to froft,Dry menus and Marfhal they faddlcd their horfe;1 hty (addled th;ir horfe, and they rode after me,but ws lodg’d in a vallpy where they could not ice.++-H--H--H ++-H -I i-H-MTHE JUVIM, BEGGAR.HpHERE wr< a jovial beggar, he had a wc^denL leg;Was lame from Ids cradle, and forced for to beg:And a-begging we will go,we’ll go, v.e’ll go, we’d go.An’ a-begging we will go.it bag for my oat-meal, another for my rye;E little bottle by my'fide, to drink when 1 am dry.\t And a-begging,el. bag for my beef, and another for my fait;il. little pair of crutches, to fliow how I can halt.And a-frigging, &c.tl bag for my bread, av.d another for my chrcfe;i| little dog i<> folio v me, and gather what I iefe.And a. begging, &c.|wvea years I ferved my good old Matter Wind;bnd feven years I begged, when I was but a child.And a-begging, &c.I h*d the pretty k uick, for to whinge and to crytBy the young, and by the old, much phy’d v;as I.And a-begging, &c,vFatherlers>& *iotherlefs, was always my complaint,]And none utujjver fa w me, but took me for a faint..And i-begging, &c.I begged for tny mailer, andgothim Qore *r p.cIf;But now my own matter, and tiobeg tor my few.. And a-begging, &c.Tc Pimlico’s wtttl go, where we will nfferry be,With ev’ry man a can i-5’5 hand, and 'A'GncS'uponhis knee.fAnd a-begging, &e.When we are thasdifpofed, we tUmMeon thegr;.h ,,Wiflt a long patched c6.«, for to hide a bontiyiiafs. jAnti a-beggir:g See.I live within a hollow tredy ?nd there I pay ao renr^Kind providence provides for ms, and i a,n wellcontent.And a-begging, &c.I fear rio plots again!! me, but live in open «eij;Then who w:ould be a king, whcrl a beg-gar Uvesto well ?Afld » begging sve will go.we’ll go, we’ll go; we’ll go.An’ a-begging we will go.FINIS,Printed by T. Johnston, Falkirk, '■where pr. i • *of Pamphlefs & Ballads may be had,in win ' •on most retsunable terms-