CHEAP TRACTS, No. l. 'THEGRExVT IMPORTANCEOFParental Instruction;WITH ILLUSTRATIONS.Trom up a child in the way he should go; and when heis old he mil not depart from it—Proverbs xxii. (5.DUNFERMLINE :! PRINTED AND SOLD BY JOHN MILLER,1826.•P SCOTLAND^PARENTAL INSTRUCTION.Train up a child in the nay he should gcand when h# is old he will not depafrom it. ProverbThat the religiouseducation of his child reis a concern of tiie utmost importance, iconscientious parent is disposed to denHe admits the claim of the infant mindtender and careful cultivation. He consders himself as standing in a place of higresponsibility, and to train up his childthe way he should go, ” he feels it to be £imperious duty, which he cannot neglewithout incurring a great degree of gui’Happy would it be for the rising genention, happy for parents themselves, and fthe world at large, if these feelings wemore generally acknowledged and obeyesIt is, however, too common to limit tlprovision we make for our children to ttwants and conveniences of the present liftChiefly concerned about “ what they shaeat, or what they shall drink, and whenwithal they shall fee clothet], ” we sufferdemands of the body to drown the cries jithe immortal mind for its congenial nonjishment Sensible objects attract and absorbour attention, while the invisible, thoughinfinitely nobler part, is. denied its justregard. A conduct certainly very prepos¬terous. We reverse the order of things,j W e make that a primary which ought to bea secondary consideration, and teach ourchildren, by our own example, to contradictithat excellent rule of Christianity, “Seek ye¥>’<tfthe kingdom of God and his rio-hteous-mess. ” °! The evil of neglecting the reasonablefdemands of external nature, strikes us withpeculiar force. We view it with dread, andwe labour with timely care to prevent itThis is well; and this we ought to dowithout leaving the other undone. Great’i ncalculably great, is the evil to be dreadedor our children from the neglect of theirreligious instruction. It is an evil whichmay be immediately observed, which spreadsincreasingly through life, and which in¬volves eternal consequences.; The immediate evil resulting from a ne¬glect of religious instruction is observablelot only in the child’s extreme ignorance•f whatever is morally good, but in theoernicious habits which he inevitably con¬tracts. That the human mind, as soon ast begins to act, discovers a bias to evil• xperience, I think, will not allow us to4;ispute. Hence that impatient, peevishohtradictpry, temper, so common to veryoung children, especially after indulgence?,nd hence their readier and easier imitatior)f a bad, than of a, good example. Now, iiiiio wholesome restraint is imposed, if thisevil bias is not counteracted, what are we tc Iexpect? What, but all that folly, all thai■leceit, all that disobedience, and all those:other vicious propensities, which, alas, w«jhave too frequent reason to lament in thedisposition and behaviour of our youthThe mind cannot remain wholly inactiveIt has received a productive energy from it:Creator, and unless the seeds of virtue artfearly sown in its soil, that energy will bespent on the weeds and poisonous fruits o:vice. Heft without moral cultivation rresembles the field of the sluggard, and thevineyard of the man void of understandingThe passenger remarks that “it is all growrover with thorns, and nettles have coveredthe face thereof, and the stone wall thereotis broken down. ” And what parent so insensible as not to feel those thorns andnettles in the untoward disposition of hi;leglected child ? It may be, he is indiffer-nt about the culture of the tender mind•ut he will of ter* be chagrined with the sac‘onsequences of that indifference. He mr.)i 't sufficiently feel the importance of re-l5ligious instruction; but the neglect of itwill prove to him a fruitful source of inquie¬tude and pain. The thorns and thistles willnot gall him the less that he is unwilling toacknowledge them the growth of his ownnegligence. And it cannot be denied thatherein the parent is justly punished. Howwisely hasGod connected duty with reward,and disobedience with punishment! “ Takethis child, and nurse it for me, ” is the com¬mission of Heaven to every parent;—obey,» and you are rewarded with dutiful and ten¬der returns on the part of your child;—dis-, regard the heavenly voice, and you are pu¬nished with contempt of parental authority;for it will be found, in general, that theyouth who never hears of his duty to hisCreator, is deficient in filial reverence andobedience.Abraham, the venerable father of theJewish nation, has obtained the testimonyof the Holy Ghost in favour of his paternalcare. “ I know my servant Abraham,” saysthe Lord, “ that he will command his chil-' dren and his household after him, and they. will keep the way of the Lord, to do justiceand judgement. ” He tutored Isaac to thei fear of the Lord, and the reward of thisconscientious parent, in the obedience andi meek submission of his pious son, is suffi-i ciently acknowledged by every one who6reads bis Bible. But is it possible, withoutvery painful regret, to contrast with this th Isad stor>r of Eli and his wicked sons? It i \said of these young men, that “they knev:not the Lord. ” Their sin was so great tha\he sent a prophet to denounce his righteovujudgement against the too indulgent paremand his family. Hear it, ye that connive athe depravity of your offspring, hear it, an«itremble! “.Thus saith the Lord, whereforkick ye at my sacrifice, and mine offeringand honourest thy sons above me? Hehokthe days come that l will cutoff thine amand the arm of thy father’s house, that thershall not be an old man in thine houstfAnd this shall be a sign unto thee, tlmshall come upon thy two sons, Hophni anPhinehas; in one day they shall die, botof them !” Nor can we read, without simlar emotions, the ease of Adonijah, one cDavid’s sons. “ Him his father had ncdispleased at any time, in saying, why hasthou done so ?” A sufficient intimation cthe parent’s extreme indulgence. This remark upon his domestic education seems thave been made by the sacred historian, jrif to prepare us for the melancholy sequelThe young prince contracted a spirit oinsubordination, embittered the last hourof his father’s life by a rash rebellion, anbrought himself and his adherents to speed;destruction.7/The neglect of early instruction, it hasbeen farther observed, is an evil to the childwhich spreads increasingly through life.Thoms and thistles undisturbed will rapidlyenlarge. See how the uncultivated field isovergrown with rank, pernicious, weeds!—how fast they multiply,—how thick theystand together, and intertwine their numer¬ous arms\ They usurp the whole surface;and should a single grain of useful seedchance to drop upon it, there is no vacantsoil to receive it; or should it be permittedto shoot a green leaf into view, how feebly,how imperfectly does it rise, and how soondoes it perish for want of vegetable food !Such is the condition of the neglected mind.The dawn of reason, which is the signal forcommencing a rational education, has beensuffered to pass away unimproved, and viceobtains an easy and early possession of theheart. At first, it breaks out in a few ve¬nial offences, and just discovers its presence.But it is an insidious foe. If not crushedon its first appearance, it gains increasinglyupon the soul, and, shaping into innumera¬ble varieties, seizes on all its powers. Viceis naturally despotic; it aspires to universaldominion; and where motives to virtue arenever presented, it will most assuredly ob¬tain it. Untaught in moral distinctions,the judgment Will be involved in darkness,8and prove perverse in its decisions |unaccustomed to wholesome restraint, thedesires will capriciously fix on the mostimproper objects; never directed to thesublimer beauties of religion, the affectionswill become grovelling and impure ; whil^the will, a stranger to the power of godli¬ness, grows obstinately disobedient, and isled away captive by the wild and unhal¬lowed passions of a natural mind. Such isthe sad, but too probable experience of thosewhose earliest years have been favouredwith no religious tuition. Poor neglectedrationals!—how I pity you !—my heartbleeds for you. I see you in the morning',of your days, in all your gaiety, and I ask,what are you ?—What but so many proofs!of original depravity,—embryos of futuresoutrages to your parents, to society, toeyourselves;—the victims of moral corrup¬tion, and the nurslings of hell!What a dreadful prospect does this afford!It cannot surely be suggested to an affec-1tionate parent without creating an alarm jterminating in a determination to use everyeffort, under divine assistance, to reverse it..Without this, there is no rational ground to ihope that the worst consequences shall not"ne realized. It is but just to fear that theneglected child will become a vicious youth;and the viciousyouth, a hardy and ultimate-9ly impenitent veteran in the ways ofwickedness. Those evil passions that brokeout at first into little fits of fretfulness andrage, encouraged, perhaps, with a smile onthat countenance that should have awedthem into silence, strengthen into pride, self-conceit, contempt of authority, and an habi¬tual propensity to criminal pursuits. Thatsuch is the general process is a fact, alas, toostrikingly corroborated by the history ofmankind. This maxim is written, as itwere, in large capitals, as a running title onthe pages of that history, the uninsthuc-TED MIND HAS A MELANCHOLY TENDENCYTO DEGENERATE. Here then we havea general law, by which to explain manyappearances of the moral world. Upon thiswe may fairly reason. As in the materialworld, we uniformly expect the same resultsfrom the same combination of circum¬stances; so, in the affairs of mind, we natu¬rally conclude that the same treatment willoperate the same effects. Hence a wise andpious tuition in tender years is expected toi ensure, for the rest of life, a continuance i nwisdom and piety: while, on the other hand,it is proved, by daily experience, that “trainup a child in the way he should not go, andwhen he is old, he will certainly be wicked.”Yes, the first impressions are the most dura¬ble. The strongest propensities are formed*in childhood, and i? thev are bad, as theywill undoubtedly be, where religious edu¬cation is neglected, they harden into habitswhich are not easily overcome. For thetruth of this, may I not appeal to an ex¬pression too commonly found in thejmouths jof adults in wickedness ? “ I am too old to ilearn; ray habits are fixed, and cannot be Ichanged.” Such, indeed, is the confirming jpower of evil habits, that a prophet places Ithe probability of reformation in a case of 1this kind, on the same footing with.that ofa controul over the uniform operations ofnature; “Can the Ethiopian change hisskin,or the leopard his spots ?-^-then may ye.alsodo good that are accustomed to do evil.”If these, then, are general laws of mind,fairly deducible from daily observation,how great is the danger of neglecting,earlyinstruction. For let it be remembered, thatthe neglect of virtuous and godly tuition isa positive training to irreligion and vicey i i ethat is not/or religion, is against her. Therecan be no neutrality here. Our Lord in thegospel describes only two ways ; the one isbroad, and leads to destruction ; the othernarrow, and leads to life. There is no in- itermediate path; and the youth who hasnot been led into the safe and narrow way,will, of necessity, be found in the broad way,running r dangerous and progressive course11/of folly. And how can it be otherwise ?The native darkness of his mind, neverpenetrated with a' single ray of religious in¬struction, becomes grosser and grosser.Errors multiply and rule the judgement.Having no previous principles to supplant,they gain an easy ascendancy; Every thingis now beheld through the medium ofstrong delusion. Truth, if it be offered, isrejected with impatience. 11 has no beauty,nor comeliness, in it to attract a mind ofthis description. In his childhood, it hadnot gained hifr reverence ; and as he growsup, he learns to persecute it with ridiculeand contempt. How often in the case of aneglected and deluded youth, has- a piousfriend been forced to close the kindest re¬monstrances with this despairing exclama¬tion, “Am I therefore become your enemybecause I tell the truth ?”Nor is the evil confined to sentiment.The fountain is impure, and the streamswhich it sends forth cannot be wholesome.This corruption of principle produces all thesad variety of moral turpitude. “Who canbring a clean thing out of an unclean ?” Itis excellently advised by Solomon, “ keepthy heart with all diligence, for out of it arethe issues of life.” This is the advice of sageexperience; for the heart is that importantdepartment which commands the whole man.12Our Lord traces from the natural heart allthat is morally bad. “ Out of the heart,” 'he says, “ proceed evil thoughts,” and fromthese he derives a black catalogue of crimes,which, in truest sense of the word, “ defilethe man.” Those evil thoughts accustomedto work in the uncultivated mind, as intheir native region, exhibit their respectiveefficiencies in the conversation and conduct.They are restless traitors, which the infatu¬ated youth carries and fosters in his bosom,till they awaken the baneful passions whichimpel him to every act of indiscretion andcriminality. Behold that town without itsfortifications. It is not merely exposed tothe ravages of an enemy; but it invites himto take possession, and offers itself an easyprey to riot, and to plunder, and to slavery!Such is an exact emblem of the heart whichis left unguarded by religious principle.A temptation attacks, and no preparation ismade for defence. There is no grace toresist, and to sav, ‘’How can I do this greatwickedness, and sin against God ?” Fatalcompliance is therefore unavoidable; andtiie first temptation, like the devil in theparable, brings with it seven others moredreadful than itself, but still more welcome,and still more successful. The passionswhich now become the tyrants of the soul,must be gratified. God and his laws are 1unknown, or despised. Warning comes toolate. The tears of mortified, disappointedparents, are ridiculed. Character, health,fortune, friends, are sacrificed;—to what, topleasure, shall I say ? Nay, but to infamy,disease, remorse, and w retchedness! Melan¬choly issue!But this is not all. The subject risesinfinitely higher in its importance, when weconsider, that the neglect of religious in¬struction in early youth is an evil whichoften involves eternal consequences. Theseconsequences are of the most dreadful na¬ture, and calculated to excite in the mindof a thinking parent the most terrific ideas.1 he evil of this neglect, great as it is in thepresent life, does not terminate with it; itreaches into anothe wrorld: and oh, w hat anawful thought, there it cannot be remedied!While the soul continues in union with thebody, the case, however bad, must not bethought desperate. The careless parent mayI tie reused to a sense of his criminal neglect.He may be brought to w eep over his abusedoffspring, and his acute sensations of self-reproach and paternal commiseration mayforce tears from his eyes, that, through theblessing of God, may soften their hearts,and prove the means of their recovery: Butwhen the immortal spirit is summonedfrom the clay tenement, to take its trial14t>efore the Judge of all, it is past time tocorrect the error. “ As -the tree falls, somust it lie.” And if the surviving parentis now made conscious of having withheldfrom that soul means of spiritual life, howshocking must the reflection be ! It is nowonly, but too late, that he feels the weightyimportance of that solemn charge given bythe Lord to the prophet, as if it had beenactually addressed to himself; “Son of man,I have made thee a watchman unto thehouse of Israel; therefore hear the word atmy mouth, and give them warning from me.AVTien I say unto the wicked, thou shaltsurely die, and thou givesthim not warning,nor speakest to warn the wicked of his way,to save his life; the same wicked man shalldie in his iniquity', but his blood will I re¬quire at thine hand.” What an awful ac¬countableness is here expressed ! A parentwho appropriates such a charge as this, andwhose conscience accuses him of havingneglected, till it is too late, to fulfil it, is noenviaole case. I believe that it is often theregret of the best of men, when their chil¬dren are taken from them, that their re¬ligious instruction has been so deficient.Upon these occasions, a new solicitude aboutthe fate of their offspring is excited.However great their concern, howeverstrong their exertions when opportunities15existed, they reckon them ail by far toolittle, in comparison of what they now feelwere due on their part. Sometimes, indeed,the departure of a child is such as to leavea pleasing hope in the mind of a piousparent; and this hope more than compen¬sates for Irs laborious instrumentality intraining the disembodied soul for glory.A parent naturally shares in the happinessof his child. He cannot be indift’ereut toany thing that concerns him. He followshim while still in the body, through all theprobable events of his future life, and an¬ticipates the various turns of Providence*which may yet distinguish him. But hisanticipations, if he has any religious feeling,are not confined to the shifting scenes ofthe present state. He has many an anxiousthought about the unalterable condition ofthe soul in another world. And if, whenhis young charge is taken from him, he hasa well-grounded hope that the soul, oncethe burden of his frequent prayers, and theobject of his pious instruction, is now inIKxs.session of eternal bliss, what consolationis his under the loss of his. society ! Whatjoy in reflecting on the glory to which heis exalted ! W hat ingratitude for the partcommitted to him of pointing out the wavthat led to the blessed issue! •16But contemplate an opposite case,—thatof a parent, who, bereaved of his child, istortured with the recollection of dutiesomitted, or carelessly performed,—duties towhich that child, now no longer his, hada claim the most natural, and the mostsolemn that can possibly be conceived. .Theomission is not now to be made up. Theoppoitunity of offering some preparatoryinstruction to the departing,soul is lost for Iever. “ Alas, and must my own offspringperish for lack of that knowledge which itwas my part to communicate ? Intolerablethought! Perhaps even now, that muchneglected soul is bearing a just testimonybefore the bar of God against my unnaturalindifference to her immortal interests. Ocruel neglect!—O unhappy father ! HaveI brought into existence a human being,only for misery, and that eternal ? Wouldto God I had never been, or that—butwhat do I say ? Would to God I had donemy duty ? He gave me opportunities ofsaving him, and I neglected them. Hisintended blessings are, by my abuse, con¬verted into curses. What aggravated guilt!That lifeless corpse before me, now aboutto mingle with the sordid dust, but latelyoccupied my w-hole concern. Upon it Iheaped my favours, regardless of the inhabi¬tant within. That body, while it lived,17/took all the attention, engulphed all theanxieties of my m/Yid ; and the soul thatcannot d/e was sacrificed to the indulgencesof th/s temporary frame. And now itmocks my unavad/ng sol/c/tude; it re¬proaches me for a fondness so s/nfully mis¬placed. VVith a shrewdness which the worldapproved, I had provided for the temporalinterests of my cnild. Methought 1 saw in¬to his career in life, and had wisely pre¬pared for all its vicissitudes. Alas, howinfatuate ! oh, that I had employed halfthis illdirected care to the religious instruc¬tion of the precious, precious soul! Then,with the blessing of God, my child wouldhave been happily prepared for his finalchange. Then, at least, should I have de¬livered my own soul, nor felt, as 1 now do,the unutterable anguish of a self-condem¬ning conscience.”These, and more awful still than these,have, no doubt been the reflections of manyparents, who, after having neglected thereligious instruction of their children, havenot, till too late, been sensible of the guiltthey have thus contracted.I ask any father, or any mother, of re¬ligious feeling, whether the above reflec¬tions are represented in language too im¬passioned for the case supposed. Is it notmore than probable that a parent whoseX] 8consconce is thus awakened, must ex-per/ence a torture of mind which his tonguescannot express,—a terror of soul, beyondthe colouring of language to depict ?—Merciful God, I beseech thee, let no suchcase ever occur within my knowledge!—|jOh, let not the hand that now writes, eventremble Under the pressure of convictions iso awful; nor let the eye that now readsever weep tears of remorse so bitter!It ought, indeed, to he observed, that itis by no means consistent ibith the righ»notions of the divine government, to sup-' pose that the eternal state of a human som•is left to the mercy of any creaiUre orcreatures, whatever. No, the complexionof eternal things is not so capriciously deitefmined. This momentous article, like ahother of God's ways, is settled by a justice,combined with a wisdom and a goodness)each of them perlect, and altogether divine \Hut the dispensations of grace are regnlateain a way generally analogous to the opera¬tions of nature. Appropriate mebns areemployed in both, without the application,of which, the desirable end cannot legitimmately be expected. And surely no meansof conveying moral and religious instructtion to the young mind can be more naturalthan those of parental exertion. A childis a precious trust, which God first am'19/wc.st emphatically deposits in the hands ofthe parent. The young mind is the soilintended )or cultivation, and the parent thehusbandman, under God, to labour upon it.As therefore “ the sluggard, who will notplow by reason of the cold," so the parent,who will not afford to his child the religiousinstruction which he ought to communicate,endangers the immortal interests of his Iff-spring, and prepares for himself nothvg hutdisappointment, vexation, and remorse.I knew a parent who had sadly neglected thereligious and moral instruction of his children, andwho was in consequence exposed to many grievousmortifications. At no period of my life do Iremember having been more shocked, than at a scenebetween him and his son, which I happened to wit¬ness. The father had gently reproved the youngman for some boastful expressions he had uttered,when he was presently under the pitiable necessity ofwithdrawing from his infuriate son, who poured uponhim the most abusive language, mixed with im¬precations too horrid to be repeated 1 It is worthy ofremark, that this unhappy being soon after died in amiserable state, oppressed with poverty, and emacia¬ted with disease.N O T E.L20The following affecting intelligence for Youth, /*';further illustrative of the baneful consequences<of a disregard to the culture and formation qfi\early habits of virtue and industry.It is impossible for any subject to be more deservingof the serious consideration of young persons, thanthat alarming depravity which has lately manifested iitself among persons of their class, and which called iiorth the serious determination I am about to state.In consequence of the prevalence of crimes of theideepest die among children, from ten to eighteen!;years of age, the Prince Regent had been advised,that it was necessary to make a dreadful example of;some of them; accordingly the Recorder was instruc¬ted to declare, at the last Middlesex Sessions, “ thatit was his Royal Highness’s full intention to punish,to the extent of the rigour of the law, any persons,however young, who should be convicted of capital,crimes at the next Sessions.”Unhappily, when the Sessions opened, it was found,that there were upwards ot ffly youths in Newgate >charged with different crimes, and many of them ofthe most capital kind.Amongst these one young man, named ChariestHuske Allen, aged 16 years, was convicted of robbingthe Post-Office of money contained in letters entrus¬ted to his care ; several indictments were against him,and he is now under sentence of death for this crime.Another young man named Jones, was convicted (Iof breaking into a house and robbing it, he was con- •victed upon the evidence of an accomplice, who there- ■21by saved himself’ from trial ; which may serve toshew this truth, that there is no just ground to dependon the fidelity of’an accomplice in crime.Many of those who were tried were convicted, andtheir situations were awfully alarming.The public execution of such juvenile offenders isjustified upon this principle, that if they are of age tocontrive, devise, and secretely to perpetrate crimes ofsuch magnitude, they are old enough to suffer thepenalties of the law for the same.Offences like those above described are not acci¬dental, nor such as good children could commit undermomentary temptation ; they are the effects of mostvicious habits of thinking and acting, brought on bylong indulged falsehood, idleness, and extravagance ;but most of all, by licentious intercourse with thevery worst of characters, watching for those who willlisten to their voice and be lured by them into' their snares.Death, at all times terrific, presents himself with’ ten-fold horrors in th,e case of a lad of unripe years: turned off at the place of public execution, for someI heinous offence against society.Let the serious and reflecting youth, therefore,pause a moment over the solemn thought of the• dreadful hereafter with respect to these delinquents ;: and while he bends the knee in thankful acknowledge-i ments 'to that God who causes him to differ, let himi offer his ardent prayers that God will display towardsl them that mercy w hich the w elfare of society will noti allow of their experiencing from man.And if this letter should fall into the hands of anyof those wretched parents who train up their children,not in the way in which they ought to go, but in liesand other vices, and who thus devote their children,,Q2by evil example and precepts, first to the commission,kof crimes, and then to the suffering of punishmentslet them contemplate with agony and horror the fattrlof those sufferers, and view in it the impending fate s:of their own wicked offspring, whose unhappiness itiirs that they have been born of such wicked and un-ffeeling parents. November, 1814. iTHE BOY OF DUNDEE.The following narrative strikingly illustrates thc\\beneficial consequences arising from a dilligenl Iattention to that nurture and admonition of the !youthful mind tvhich the Scriptures enjoin.A LADY, in the neighbourhood of Dundee, goingto ivisit a poor woman in the town/was directed, by mis- •take, to the lodging of another person, and knocking ;at the door, was desired, in a low female voice, to jcome in.On going into the room, she found a poor helpless >woman on a bed, who seemed to be in a miserable ;situation, in consequence of a paralytic stroke which jshe had had five years before.Her friendly visitor pitying her condition, wassurprised to hear her say, that she thought herselfone of the happiest of mortals ; and on desiring anexplanation, the poor womah related the followingparticulars.In the younger part of life she was left a widow,with an only son ; who, tvh'en she had the stroke, was f23twelve years of age. Till that time, by spinning amiother work, she hatl been enabled to maintain herselfand her child ; and to pay a trifle for his education.Since that trying dispensation of Providence, con¬fined to her bed, and deprived of the use of her limbs,she had been unable to do any thing for herself; andhad no money to pay another Her son, at that earlyage, trusting to the Divine blessing, took the nobleresolution, by the labour of his own hands, to supplythe wants of his afflicted parent. A female neighboursometimes called in to do little kind services for her;but her chief comfort, and her support, arose fromthe affection and unceasing attention of her son. Heprocured such work as his years would admit, in theOsnaburg manufactory at Dundee. Every morning,after cleaning the room in which they dwelt, gettingready their breakfast, and making his mother as com¬fortable as he could till his return, he left her, with asmiling countenance, to attend the labours of theloom ; and returned in the evening with his well-earned pittance, to enjoy a cheerful meal with his be¬loved parent. And thus had they lived, for thespace of five years.But this is not all: the mother could not read ;the son, by her kindness, had obtained that advantage.He had read the Holy Scriptures ; and he knew thetruth as it is in Jesus. In the midst of poverty anddistress, he harl found great riches; and he experien¬ced that the ways of religion are “ ways of pleasant¬ness, and all her paths are peace!’’ Reflecting, there¬fore, on the many hours he was under the necessityof leaving his mother, alone and unemployed; anddesirous that she also should share in the blessingswhich he enjoyed from his religious knowledge ; heresolved to teach her to read; and, in due time, accom-24pUshed the pleasing task ; affording her, by this imeans, a comfort and delight, which, she confessed,had made her one of the happiest of women. She :added, that during her son’s absence, she loved tomeditate on the holy volume, whose divine truths hadfilled her soul with humble hope and joy; and affordedher that peace, which the world can neither give, nor itake away ! and that it was unspeakably pleasing toher, to think she owed all this, by the blessing ofProvidehce, to her beloved son.Parents have a natural claim on their offspring forsupport; and relieving aged parents, when bodilystrength decays, infirmities and wants increase, is notonly an aot of mercy, but also an act of justice, animperious duty,—a repaying in kind, what they didfor their children in their tender helpless years, andto “ tvilhold from them to whom it is due, rvheri it is inthe power of thine hand to do it," and “shut up ourbowels of compassion when we see them in need," arguesan extreme hardnes of heart. “ How dwelleth thelove of God in such a one ? Can the merciless hopefor mercy, who will shew no mercy !FINIS.-L . 'I