Daniel O’Rourke’sWONDERFULVOYAGE TO THE MOON.ALSO,Master and Man;GLASGOW :1 PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.51^OF scon*-^D)NBVJ^Cf> if l X £ K & XOB IKE ilOO KS ET r K B »*ervacoM:XP6 jjtjfA yjsre QsrufsfOb*truq i-AOAVeE XO XHE MOO/1'/My/JDEKKfrDANIEL O R 0 U R K E'SWonderful Voyage to the Moon.People may have heard of the renowned adven-■ tures of Daniel O’Rourke but how few are thereii who know that the cause of all his perils, above:i and belowr, was neither more nor less than his •having slept under the walls of the Phooka’stower. Iknew the man well; he lived at the bot-! tom of Hungry Hill, just at the right hand sideS of the road as you go towards Bantry. An oldman was he at the time that he told me the story,with gray hair, and a red nose ; and it was on thei 25th of June, 1813, that I heard it from his ownIlips, as he sat smoking his pipe under the old pop¬lar tree, on as fine an evening as ever shone fromthe sky. I was going to visit the caves in DurseyIsland, having spent the morning at Glengarift'.‘ I am often axed to tell it, sir,’ said he, ‘ sothat this is not the first time. The master’s son,you see, had come from beyond foreign parts inFrance and Spain, as young gentlemen used togo, before Buonaparte or any such was heard of;and sure enough there was a dinner given to all4the people on the ground, gentle and simple, highand low, rich and poor. The ould gentlemenwere the gentlemen, after all, saving your hon¬our’s presence They’d swear at a body a little, tobe sure, and, may be, give one a cut of a whipnow and then, but we were no losers by it in theend-;—and they were so easy and civil, and keptsuch rattling houses, and thousands of welcomes;and there was no grinding for rent, and few agents;and there was hardly a tenant on the estate thatdid not taste of his landlord’s bounty often and, often in the year;—but now it’s another thing;no matter for that, sir, for I’d better be tellingyou my story.‘ Well, we had every thing of the best, andplenty of it j and we ate, and we drank, and wedanced, and the young master by the same tokendanced with Peggy Barry, from the Bothereen—a lovely young couple they were, though theyare both long enough now. To make a longstory short, I got, as a body may say, the samething as tipsy almost, for I can’t remember everat all, no ways, how I left the place; only I didleave it that’s certain. Well, I thought, for allthat, in myself, I'd just step to Molly Cronohan’s,the fairy woman, to speak a word about thebracket heifer that was bewitched; and so as Iwas crossing the stepping stones at the ford ofBallyashenogh, and was looking up at the stars5Mid blessing myself—for why ? it was Lady-day.—I missed my foot, and souse I fell into the wa-er. ‘ Death alive !’ thought I, ‘ I’ll be drownedxow !’ However, I began swimming, swimming,i twimming away for the dear life, till at last I gotishore, somehow or other, but never the one ofne can tell how, upon a dissolute island.‘ I wandered and wandered about there, with¬out knowing where I wandered, until at last Igot into a big bog. The moon was shining asaright as day, or your fair lady’s eyes, sir, (withyour pardon for mentioning her,) and I lookedeast and west, and north and south, and everyway, and nothing did I see but bog, bog, bog;I could never find out how I got into it; and myheart grew cold with fear, for sure and certain Iwas that it would be my barrin place. So I satdown upon a stone which, as good luck wouldhave it, was close by me, and I began to scratchimy head and sing the Ullagon—when all of asudden the moon grew black, and I looked up,j and saw something for all the world as if it was( moving down between me and it, and I couldi not tell what it was. Down it came with a: pounce, and looked at me full in the face; and, what was it but an eagle ? as fine a one as ever: flew from the kingdoth of Kerry. So he looked• at me in the face, and says he to me, ‘ DanielI O’Rouke,’ says he, ‘how do you do?’ ‘ Very.■'(■Eij-vtaJi sisix ° vji'/Pio’i—ilutym ^tiigaald bii£well, I thank you, sir,’ says I: £ I hope you’rewellwondering out of my senses all the timehow an eagle came to speak like a Christian.1 What brings you here, Dan?’ says he. ‘ Noth¬ing at all, sir,’ says I: ‘ only I wish I was safehome again.’ 1 Is it out of the island you wantto go, Dan ?’ says he. ‘ ’Tis sir,’ says I : so I upand told him how I had taken a drop too much,and fell into the water; how I swam to the island;and how I got into the bog and did not know myway out of it. ‘ Dan,’ says he, after a minute’sthought, ‘ though it is very improper for you toget drunk on Lady-day, yet as you are a decentsober man, who tends mass well, and never flingsstones at me or mine, nor cries out after us inthe fields—my life for yours,’ says he; ‘so getup on my back, and grip me well for fear you’dfall off, and I’ll fly you out of the bog,’—I amafraid, says I, your honour’s making game of me ;for who ever heard of riding a horseback on aneagle before ? ‘ Pon the honour of a gentleman,says he, putting his right foot on his breast I amquite in earnest: and so now either take my offeror starve in the bog—besides, I see that yourweight is sinking the stone.It was true enough as he said, for I found thestone every minute going from under me. I hadno choice : so thinks I to myself, faint heart neverwon fair lady, and this is fair persuadanee;—Itnank your honour, says I, for the load of your['civility : and I’ll take your kind offer-: I there¬fore mounted upon the back of the eagle, apd heldhim tight enough by the throat, and up he flew1 iin the air like a lark, Little I knew the trick h$was going to serve me, Up—up—up—God: knows how far up he flew. Why, then said I to’ im—thinking he did not knqw the right road—very civilly, because why ?*—I was in his11 home!power entirely;—sir, says I, please your honour’sglory, and with humble submission to your bet¬ter Judgment, if you’d fly down a bit, you’re ^o>vi just over my cabin, and I could be put downthere, and many thanks to your worship, j yggArrah, Dan, said he, do you think me a fool ?Look down in the next field, and don’t you see; two men and a gun ? By my word it would beno joke to be shot this way, to oblige a drunkenblackguard, that I picked up off a conld stone ina bog. Bother you, said I to myself, but I didnot speak out, for where was the use? Well, six,up he kept, flying, flying, and I asking him everyminute to fly down, and all to no use. Wherein the world are you going, sir •?, says I to him.—Hold your tongue, Dan, says he; mind your ownbusiness, and don’t be interfering with the busi¬ness of other people—Faith, this is my business,I think, says I. Be quiet, Dan, says he; so Isaid no more.8At last where should we come to, but to themoon itself. Now you can’t see it from this, butthere is, or there was in my time, a reaping-hooksticking out of the side of the moon, this way(drawing the figure on the ground, with the enciof his stick.)Dan said the eagle. I’m tired with this longfly; I had no notion ’twas so far. And my lord,sir, said I, who in the world axed you to fly sofar—was it I ? did not I beg, and pray, and be¬seech you to stop half an hour ago ? There’s nouse talking, Dan, said he; I’m tired bad enough,so you must get off, and sit down on the moonuntil I rest myself. Is it sit down on the moon ?said I; is it upon that little round thing, then ?why, then, sure I’d fall off, in a minute, and bekilt and split, and smashed all to bits; you are avile deceiver,—so you are. Not at all, Dan, saidhe : you can catch fast hold of the reaping-hook,that’s sticking out of the side of the moon, and’twill keep you up. I won’t, then, said I. Maybe not, said he, quite quiet. If you don’t, myman, I shall just give you a shake, and one slapof my wing, and send you down to the ground,where every bone in your body will be smashedas small as a drop of dew on a cabbage-leaf inthe morning. Why, then, I’m in a fine way,said I to myself, ever to have come alone withthe likes of you, and so giving him a hearty curse9in Irish, for fear he’d know what I said, I got ofthis back with a heavy heart, took a hold of thereaping-hook, and sat down upon the moon, anda mighty cold seat it was, I can tell you that.When he had me there fairly landed, he turnedabout on me, and said. Good morning to you,Daniel O’ Rourke, said he; I think I’ve nickedyou fairly now. You robbed my nest last year,(twas true enough for him, but how he found itout is hard to say,) and in return you are freelywelcome to cool your heels dangling upon themoon like a cock throw.Is that all, and is this the way you leave me,you brute, you ? says I. You ugly unnaturalbaste, and is this the way you serve me at last ?Bad luck to yourself, with your hooked nose, andto all your breed, you blackguard. ’Twas all tono manner of use: he spread out his great bigwings, burst out a laughing, and flew away likelightning. I bawled after him to stop; but Imight have called and bawled for ever, withouthis minding me. Away he went, and I neversaw him from that day to this—Sorrow fly awaywith him ! You may be sure I was in a disconso¬late condition, and kept roaring out for the baregrief, when all at once a door opened right inthe middle of the moon, creaking on its hingesas if it had not been opened for a month before.I suppose they never thought of greasing ’em.10and out there walks who do you think but theman in the moon himself? I knew him by hisbush.Good morrow to you, Daniel O’Kourke, saidhe > How do you do ? Very well, thank yourhonour, said I. I hope your honour’s well.What brought you here, Dan ? said he. So Itold him how I was a little overtaken in liquor atthe master’s, and how I was cast on a dissoluteisland, and how I lost my way in the bog andhow the thief of an eagle promised to fly me outof it, and how instead of that he had fled me upto the moon.Dan, said the man in the moon, taking a pinchof snuff when I was done, you must not stay here.Indeed, sir, says I, ’tis much against my will I’mhere at all; but how am 1 to go back ? That’syour business, said he, Dan ; mine is to tell youthat here you must not stay, so be off in lessthau no time, I’m doing no harm, says I, onlyholding on hard by the reaping-hook, lest I falloff. That’s what you must not do, Dan, sayshe. Pray, sir, says I, may I ask how many youare in family, that you would not give a poortraveller lodgings; I’m sure ’tis not so oftenyou’re troubled with strangers coming to see you,for ’tis a long way. I’m by myself, Dan, sayshe; but you’d better let go the reaping-hook,faith, and with your leave, says I, I’ll not let11■ | go the grip, and the more you bids me, the morel I won’t let go : so I will. You had better, Dan,I j says he again. Why, then, my little fellow, saysI, taking the whole weight of him with my eyei from head to foot, there are two words to thatII bargain : and I’ll not budge, but you may if youi i like. We’ll see how that is to be, says he; and, back he went, giving the door such a great bang1 alter him, (for it was plain he was huffed,) thatI thought the moon and all would fall down withit.Well, I was preparing myself to try strengthri1 with him, when back again he comes, with they kitchen cleaver in his hand, and without saying, a word, he gives two bangs to the handle of thejii reaping-hook that was keeping me up, and whap !III it came in two. Good morning to you, Dan,says the spiteful little old blackguard, when he3 saw me cleanly falling down with a bit of thel handle in my hand; I thank you for your visit,; and fair weather after you, Daniel. I had notime to make any answer to him, for I was tum-i bling over and over, and rolling and rolling atthe rate of a fox-hunt. God help me, says I,but this is a pretty pickle for a decent man to beseen in at this time of night; I am now sold fairly.The word was not out of my mouth when whiz!iwhat should fly by close to my ear but a flock ofwild geese; all the way from my own bog of12Ballyasheenough, else how should they knowme ? the ould gander, who was their general,turning about his head, cried out to me, Is thatyou, Dan ? The same, said I, not a bit dauntednow at what he said, for I was by this time usedto all kinds of bedevilment, and, besides, I knewhim of ould. Good morrow to you, says he,Daniel O’Rourke: how are you in health thismorning? Very well, sir, says I. I thank youkindly, drawing my breath, for I was mightilyin want of some. I hope your honour’s thesame. I think ’tis falling you are, Daniel, sayshe. You may say that sir, says I. And whereare you going all the way so fast ? said the gan¬der. So I told him how I had taken the drop,and how I came on the island, and how I lostmy way in the bog, and how the thief of an eagleflew me up to the moon, and how the man in themoon turned me out. Dan, said he, I’ll saveyou : put your hand out and catch me by the leg,and I’ll fly you home. Sweet is your hand in apitcher of honey, my jewel, says I, though all thetime I thought in myself that I don’t much trustyou ; but there was no help, so I caught the gan¬der by the leg, and away I and the other geeseflew after him as fast as hops.We flew, and we flew and we flew, until wecame right over the wide ocean. I knew it well,for I saw Cape Clear to my right hand, sticking13up out of the water. Ah ! my lord, said I to thei goose, for I thought it best to keep a civil tonguein my head any way, fly to land if you please.It is impossible, you see, Dan, said he, for a> while, because you see we are going to Arabia.To Arabia! said I; that’s surely some place inforeign parts, far away. Oh ! Mr Goose : whythen, to be sure, I’m a man to be pitied among' you—Whist, whist, you fool, said he, hold yourtongue : I tell you Arabia is a very decent sortfi of place, as like West Carbery as one egg is like11 another, only there is a little more sand there.Just as we were talking, a ship hove in sight,13; scudding so beautiful before the wind: Ah! then,H sir, said I, will you drop me on the ship, if youplease? We are not fair over it, said he. Wei; are, said I. We are not, said he: If I dropped(, you now, you would go splash into the sea. Iir would not, says I; I know better than that, for1 it is just clean under us, so let me drop now at): once.If you must, you must said he. There, take{ your own way; and he opened his claw, and1 faith he was right—sure enough I came down| plump into the very bottom of the salt sea ! DownI to the very bottom I went, and I gave myselti up then for ever, when a whale walked up tome,1 scratching himself after his night’s rest, and look-i ed me full in the face, and never the word did he14say; but lifting up his tail, he splashed me allover again with the cold salt water, till therewasn’t a dry stitch upon my whole carcase;and I heard somebody saying—’twas a voice Iknew too—Get up, you drunken brute, out ofthat: and with that I woke up, and there wasJudy with a' tub full of water, which she wassplashing all over me ;—for, rest her soul! thoughshe was a good wife, she never could bear to seeme in drink, and had a bitter hand of her own.Get up, said she again; and of all places inthe parish, would no place sarve your turn to liedown upon but under the ould walls of Carriga-phooka? an uneasy resting I am sure you had ofit. And sure enough I had; for I was fairlybothered out of my senses with eagles, and menof the moons, and flying ganders, and whales,driving me through bogs, and up to the moon,and down to the bottom of the great ocean. IfI was in drink ten times over, long would it bebefore I’d lie down in the same spot again, I knowthat.Master and Man;7/oCI Ji^s i\Rd euitto oi^tod onJThe Adventures of Billy Mac Daniel.Billy Mac Daniel was once as likely a15.iroung mail as evei' shook his brogue at a patron,.mptiecl a quart, or handled a shillelagh; fearingior nothing but the want of drink; caring for no-i hing but who should pay for it; and thinking ofnothing but how to make fun over it; drunk or■ i ober, a word and a blow was ever the wav with!Silly Mac Daniel; and a mighty easy way it isif either getting into or of ending a dispute.: More is the pity that, through the means of hisi Ihinking, and fearing, and caring for nothing,his same Billy Mac Daniel fell into bad com- „Mjany; for surely the good people are the worsti >f all company any one could come across.It so happened that Billy was going home one.dear frosty night not long after Christmas ; theonoon was round and bright; but although it was: is fine a night as heart could wish for, he feltujinched with the cold. By my word, chatteredIBilly, a drop of good liquor would be no bad thing|to keep a man’s soul from freezing in him; andwish I had a full measure of the best.J Never wish it twice, Billy, said a little man ini three-cornered hat, bound all about with goldace, and with great silver buckles in his shoes,po big that it was a wonder how he could canychem and he held out a glass as big as himself,(filled with as good liquor, as ever eye looked on(or lip tasted.Success, my little fellow, said Billy Mac Daniel,16nothing daunted, though well he knew the little1man to belong to the good people; here’s yourhealth, any way, and thank you kindly; no mat¬ter who pays for the drink; and he took the glassand drained it to the very bottom, without evertaking a second breath to it.Success, said the little man : and you’re hearti-,ly welcome, Billy; but don’t think to cheat me:as you have done others,—out with your purseand pay me like a gentleman.Is it I pay you? said Billy; could I not justtake you up and put you in my pocket as easilyas a blackberry ?Billy Mac Daniel, said the little man, gettingvery angry, you shall be my servant for seven;years and a day, and that is the way I will be:paid ; so make ready to follow me.When Billy heard this, he began to be verysorry for having used such bold words towards:the little man ; and he felt himself, yet could not:tell how, obliged to follow the little man the live¬long night about the country, up and down, andiover hedge and ditch, and through bog andbrake without any rest.When morning began to dawn, the little manturned round to him and said, You may now, goihome, Billy, but on your peril don’t fail to meet:me in the Fort-field to-night; or if you do, it maybe the worse for you in the long run. If I find;I17nyou a good servant, you will find me an indulgentr master.Home went Billy Mac Daniel, and though hei was tired and weary enough never a wink of sleep) icould he get for thinking of the little man; buthe was afraid not to do his bidding, so up he gottin the evening, and away he went to the Fort-i field. He was not long there before the littler man came towards him and said, Billy, I want to< go a long journey to night; so saddle one of my( horses and you may saddle another for yourself,sas you are to go along with me, and may be tired! after your walk last night.Billy thought this very considerate of his mas-3ter, and thanked him accordingly: But, said he‘i If I may be so bold, sir, I would ask which isid the way to your stable, for never a thing do Isee but the fort here, and the old thorn-tree inrlthe corner of the field, and the stream runningj at the bottom of the hill, with the bit of bog over!fj against us.Ask no questions, Billy, said the little man,but go over to that bit of bog, and bring me twoIt of the strongest rushes you can find.Billy did accordingly, wondering what the littleman would be at; and he picked out two of the>JI stoutest rushes he could find, with a little bunchof brown blossom stuck at each side of each, andC brought them back to his master.insvljjDtn itfi ym hurt utw Dcr/ ftnMtfiM i>oo^ £ no / jGet up, Billy, said the little man, taking oneof.the rushes from him and studding across it.Where shall I get up, please your. honour ?said Billy. -ynblniriJ tox ty-g od hlnoalWhy, upon horseback, like me, to be sure, saidvjjwn bftii ■gninavy jdj nilIs it after making a fool of me you’d be, saidBilly, bidding me get a horse-back upon that bitof a rush ? May be you want to persuade me thatthe rush I pulled but while ago out of the bogover there, is a horse ?Up ! up ! and no words, said the little man,looking very angry ; the best horse you ever rodewas but a fool to it. So Billy, thinking all thiswas in joke, and fearing to vex his master, strad¬dled across the rush; Borram 1 Bor ram! Borram!cried the little man three times, ( which, in Eng¬lish, means to become great,) and Billy did thesame after him; presently the rushes swelled upinto fine horses, and away they went full speed; tbut Billy, who had put the rush between his legs,without much minding how he did it, found him¬self sitting on horseback the wrong w^y, which,was rather awkward, with his face to the horse’stail; and so quickly had his steed started off withhim, that he had no power to turn round, andthere was therefore nothing for it but to hold onby the tail.At last they came to their journey’s end, and(odi tbisS-liol sdi ol tfoad varii nariVfStopped i\t ^Ue gate of a tine house : Now, Billy,;said the little man, do as y<Mi see me do, and fol¬low me closet but as you do not know yourhorse’s head from his tail, mind that your own headdoes not spin round until you can’t tell whetherBlyou are standing on it or on your heels • for re¬member that old liquor, though able to make aI ipat speak, can make a man dumb.The little man then said some queer kind of11words, out of which Billy could make no kind of; meaning; but he contrived to say them after him(ifor all that and in they both went through theixey-hole of the door, and through one key-holejMter another, until they got into the wine-cellar(■Which was well stored with all kinds of wine.The little man fell to drinking as hard as hevnould, and Billy, no way disliking the example,ffiid the same. The best of masters are you,•purely, said Billy to bim; no matter who is the|hext; and well pleased will I be with your ser-t|rice if you continue to give me plenty to drink<[ I have made no bargain v/ith you, said the Id¬le man, and will make none; but up and follow■me. Away they went, through key-holfe afteri yey-hole; and each mounting upon the rush whichlie left at the hall door, scampered off, kickinghe clouds before them like snow-bails; as soonis the words, Borram, Borram. Borram, hadi rassed their lips.20When thev came back to the Fort-field, thelittle man dismissed Billy, bidding him to be therethe next night at the same hour. Thus did theygo on, night after night, shaping their course onenight here, and another night there—sometimesnorth, and sometimes east, and sometimes south,until there was not a gentleman’s wine-cellar inall Ireland they had not visited, and conld tellthe flavour of every wine in it as well—ay, bet¬ter than the buttler himself.One night when Billy Mac Daniel met thelittle man as usual in the Fort-field and was goingto the bog to fetch the horses for their journey,his master said to him, Billy, I shall want an¬other horse to-night, for may be we may bringback more company with us than we take. SoBilly, who now knew better than to question anyorder given to him by his master, brought a thirdrush, much wondering who it might be thatwould travel back in the company, and whetherhe was about to have a fellow servant. If I have,thought Billy, he shall go and fetch the horsesfrom the bog every night; for I don’t see why Iam not, every inch of me, as good a gentlemanas my master.Well, away they went, Billy leading the thirdhorse, and never stopped till they came to a snugfarmer’s house in the country Limerick, closeunder the old castle of Carrigoggunniel, that was21I milt, tney says Vy the great Brian Boru. VVith-i i the house there was a great carousing goingbrward, and the little man stopped outside for«ome time to listen; then turning round all of amdden, said, Billy, I will be a thousand yearsi )ld to-morrow !! God bless us, sir, said Billy, will you ?Don’t say these words again, Billy, said the; little man, or you will be my ruin for ever.—: INow, Billy, as I will be a thousand years in the' world to-morrow, I think it is full time for me toI get married.I think so too, without any kind of doubt at. all, said Billy, if ever you mean to marry.And to that purpose, said the little man, haveill come all the way to Carrigoggunniel: for in thishouse, this very night, is young Darby Riley go-ning to be married to Bridget Rooney ; and as sheis a tall and comely girl, and has come of decentipeople, I think of marrying her myself, and tak-;dng her off with me.And what will Darby Riley say to that ? said{Billy ?Silence! said the little man, putting on a mighty; i severe look ; I did not bring you here with me tol ask questions ; and without holding farther argu-'iiment, he began saying the queer words, which>!i had the power of passing him through the key-hole22as free as air, and which Billy'thought himselfmighty clever to be able to say after him.In they both went; and for the better viewingthe company, the little man perched himself upas nimbly as a cock-sparrow upon one of the bigbeams which went across the house over all theirheads, and Billy did the same upon another fac¬ing him; not being much accustomed to roostingin such a place, his legs hung down as untidy asmay be, and it was quite clear he had not takenpattern after the way in which the little man hadbundled himself up together. If the little manhad been a tailor all his life, he could not havesat more contented by upon his haunches.There they were, both master and man, look¬ing down upon the fun going forward—and un¬der them were the priest and piper—and the fa¬ther bf Darby Kiley, with Darby’s two brothersand his Uncle’s son—arid there were both fatherand the mother of Bridget Rooney, and proudenough the old couple were that night of theirdaughter, a's good right they had—and her foursisters with bran new ribbons in their caps, andher three brothers all looking as clean and cleveras any three boys in Munster—and there wereuncles and aunts, and gossips and cousins enoughbesides to make a full hoyse of it—and plentywas there to eat and drink on the table for everyone of them, if they had been double the num¬ber.Now it happened, just as Mrs Rooney hadhelped his reverence to the first cut of the pig’shead which was placed before her, beautifullybolstered up with white savoys, that the bridegave a sneeze which made every ong'at the tablestart, but not a soul said “ God bless us.” Allthinking that the priest would have done so, ashe ought if he had done bis duty, no one wishedto take the word out of his mouth, which unfor¬tunately was preocoupied with pig’s head aridgreens. And after a moment’s pause 'the fun andmerriment of the bridal feast vvent on without thepious benediction. *Of this circumstance both Billy and his masterwere no inattentive spectators from their exaltedstations. Ha! exclaimed the little man, throw¬ing one leg from under him with a joyous flourish,and his eye twinkled with a strange light, whilsthis eyebrows became elevated info th.e curvatureof Gothic arches—Ha! said he, ieering; down atthe bride, and then up at Billy, 1 have half ofher now, surely. Let her sneeze but twice more,and she is mine, in spite of priest, mass-book andDarby Riley.Again the fair Bridget sneezed; but it wasso gently, and she blushed so much, that fewexcept the little man took, or seemed to take,24any notice; and no one thought of saying, “ Godbless us.”At this critical moment the bride gave a thirdsneeze, and Billy roared out with all his might,“ God save us!” No sooner was it uttered, thanthe little man, his face glowing with rage anddisappointment, sprung from the beam on whichhe had perch'ed himself, and shrieking out in theshrill voice of a cracked bagpipe, I discharge youmy service, Billy Mac Daniel—take that for yourwages, gave poor Billy a most furious kick in theback, which sent his unfortunate servant spraw¬ling upon his face and hands right in the middleof the supper table.If Billy was astonished, how much more sowas every one of the company into which he wasthrown with so little ceremony; but when theyheard his story, Father Cooney laid down hisknife and fork, and married the young couple outof hand with all speed ; and Billy Mac Danieldanced the Rinka at their.wedding, and plentydid he drink at it too, which was what he thoughtmore of than dancing.FINIS.