THEDunghil - Cock;O R,Turnpin’s valiant Exploits,GLASGOW,[PRINTED BY- J. & M. ROBERTS ON;Saltwarket, 180?,TO WHICH ARE ADDED,ROB’S JOCK, a very OLD BALLAD,AND* *Britons to Arms your Siller Km. to defend.TURNPIN’S VALQUR.ON Hounflow^heath. as I rode o’er,I Tpy’d a lawyer riding before;Kind Sir, faid are you not afraid,Oi Turnpsn that mischievous blade?O rare Turnpin hero,O rare Turnpin O.Says Turnpin I've been moft Secure,My gold I hid in the heel of my Ihoe;O fays thq lawyer, there’e none can findMy gold, for it lies in my cap behind. &c.As they rod down by the Poultry-mill,Turrpin demands him.to Hand dill jSaid he. Your cap 1 muft cut off.For my mare Ihe wants a faddlc-cloth. See* IThis caus’d the lawyer for to fret,To think he was fo fairly bit;For '• on he robl/d him of %is Here,Becaufe he knew how to iye for more.(As Turpin rode in fearcli of prey.He met an excifeman on the way.He boldly bid him for to Stand,Your gold, faid he, 1 do demand. O. &c.’ : .With that the excifeman he reply’d.Your proud demands muft be-deny’djBefore my money you receive.One of us two lhall ccafc to live. O rare, &c( 3 )Turn pin .hen without remorfe.He knock'd him quite from off his horfe,And left him on the ground to fprauhSo off he rode with his gold and all. .0, &c.As he rode over Salisbury plain.He met Lord Judge-with all his train ;Then Hero-dike, he did approach,And robb’d the Judge as he fat in coach. &c.An Ufurer as l am to!d„Who had in charge a fum of gold,With a clock clouted frem fide to fide.Juft-like a Palmer he did ride, O rare, &c.v- v ; .'S' ' ■ ~ 1 t - • .* *\y ■ • s % ./* A ! iAnd as he jogg’d along the way.He met with furnpiu that fame day ;With hat in hand molt courtcoufly,He alked him for charity. O rare, &c.If that be true thou tells to me,I’il freely give thee charity *,But f made a vow, and it I’H keep,To fearch all Palmers that I meet. O, &c.He fearch’d his bags, wherein he foundUpwards ef eight hundred pound,In ready gold and white money,Which made him to Hugh heartily, O, &c.'V his begging is a curious trade.For on the way thou haft well fped;This pr.ife.I count it found money,Became thou made an arrant lye. 0> See.C 4 )For fliooting of a dunghil-cock,Poor Turnpin he at lad was took,And carried ftraight unto a jail.Where his misfortunes he does bewail. &c.Now iome do fay that he will hang,Turnpin the laP: of ail the ga’ng ;I wifii this cock had ne’er been hatch’d,For like a ftfli in the net he’s catch’d. O, &c.But if I had my liberty.And were upon yon mountain high,There’s not a man in Old England*Durit bid bold Turnpin for to ftand. O, &c.I ventur'd bold at young and old,And fairly fought them for their gold jOf no mankind was I afraid ;But now, alas! I am betray’d— Orare3&c.Now Turnpin he’s condemn’d to die.To hang upon yon gallows high $Wjiofe legacy is a llrong rope,For dealing of a DunhiUCock. Orare, Sec.ROB’S JOCK, a very Ono Ballad.RO B’S Jock came to woo cur Jenny,On ae feaft-ifay when we were fou,bhe brankit. fad and made her bonny,And laid, Jock came ye here to woo?She burnh'h'd her baith bread and broil*And mds kr dc^.r as ony dock }( 5 )Then fpake her dame, and faid, I trou.Ye come to woo our Jenny, Jock.i Jack faid, forfooth, I yearn fu* fain,To ink my head, and fit down by you.Then fpake her minny, and faid again.My bairn has tocher enough to gie you.Tehee! quo’ Jenny, keek keek I fee you,. Miany yon man maks bat a mock.Deil hae the Tiers, fou ieis me o’ you,come to woo your Jenny, quof Jock.y bairn has tocher o’ her ain :A goofe, a gryce, a cock and hen,dirk, a ftuig, an acre fawinA bake-bread and a bannock*flane $A pig, a pat, a kirn there-ben,A kaim, but an a kaiming-Aock,VVi* cogs^n* luggies nine or ten,:>!Cotue ye to woo our Jenny, Jock.A weight, a peet-crecl, and a cradle,A pair o’ clips, a grape, a Hail,ark, an amry, and a ladle,A milhe, and a fowen-pail,A roudie whitle to ihcer the kail,A timber-mell the beer to knock,Tv/a Ihelfs made of an auld fir-.lale,<Come ye woo our Jenny, Jock ?I. A farm, a furlet, and a peck,. A rock, a reel, and a wheel-band,i \ tub, a barrow, and a fack,i A fpurtic-braid, and an clwand,( 6 )Then Jock took Jenny by the band,And cryM a feafl! and flew a cock,'Aft] made a btida! upo’ hand,.Now I hae got your Jenny, quo’ Jock.Now dame, 1 hae your doughter marry’d,And tho’ ye mak it ne'er fae teugk,I’ll let ye wit lha’s no raiicariy’d,* Fis well kend l hae gear enough,An auld gaud glov’d ItU o’er a heugh,A fpade, a Ipeet, a Ipur, a fock,Witbouten oulen i hae a pie ugh ;May that no fair your Jenny ? quo* Jock.A treen trencher, a ram-horn fpoon,Twa boots of barkint blaiiant leather,A’ graith that gangs to coble IhoonAnd a thrawc^uik to twine a tether.;Twa crooks that meup amangthe heather,A pair of hranks. and a fetter-lock . jA teugh purfe made of a fwir.e’s bladder,To hand ybur tocher, Jenny quo* Jock,Good elding for your winter-fireAnd a cod o’ caff wad fill a cradle,A rake of iron to elate the byre,A duck about the dubs to padle ;The pannel of an auid kide*faddle jAnd Rob my cem hechr me a fto:k,Twa luifcy lips to lisk a laddie ; ,May thir no gain your Jenny quo* Jock.A pair of hems and brechin? fine,* * •^ And without bitiSj a bridlc-rtnaie.#raS'IiiGiiA fark made of the linkome twine,A pay green cloke that will not ftenzie,Mair yet in itore—T need not fenzie,Five hundred flaes, a fendy flock ;And are not thae a wakrife menzie.To gae to bed wi* Jenny and Jock ?Tak thir for my part o* the feafl,(t is weel kend l am wcel bodin:Ye neLed not fay my part is ieaft, •Were they ns meikle as they are lodin.The wife fpier’d gin the katl was fodden.'Whan we hae don?* tak hame the brock,The roaft was teugh a raploch hodin,With which they feallcd Jenny and Jock*Uiitons to Arms our Sifter Km. to defend.CSGme all you brave boys in this nation,4 your country and honour defend,Since cur King has got great occafion,brave boys we'll crofs o’er the main.Fal ai de ral, dal dal adadie, fai al dar &c.You muft lay by the flail and the pitchfork,and take up the gun and the fword,You will haftiiy kill ail the Frenchmen,where'er you meet them by my word. &c;The Frenchmen they're landed in Ireland,which l now do well underftand;Be not afraid of them my brave boys,Gorawal’is does k> tnfclf row command. &c»( 8 )There is Phillemon, Derby, and Donald,in the mountains of Connaught was bred,Them fellows they do fear no danger,when they get a drop in their bead. &c.But there is Phillemon, Derby, and Donald,and Firres, and Munes, and Shan,They were bred in the mountains of Newry,by cutting ol turff with a flan. Fal, &c.When my Captsin he gives me the fkinnar,he calls me a flout clever man.But to-morrow brave boys I’ll be finer,for I’ve the red clothes to put on. &c.0 what would you do with the red clothes •you don’t know to handle a gun;By rny fhoul flie’ll be apt for to bite you,if you to her mouth put your hand. &c.But give brandy unto me brave OROur,my true heart it {hall never fail,To kill all the Frenchmen by dozens,as one would threfh oats with a flail. &c.For if Frenchman or Dutchman wou’d (hoot1 with the big end of my gun. (me,Their bones wouldjje pounding Sc threflring,till they be obliged to run. Fal al, Sec,And when I had kill’d them,' poor fellows,and caft them over that fhore,1 will make them to fwear by Gibraltar,3they’d never come here any more. &c.G L 'a"'g" O W,Printed by J.&M. ROBERTSON,Saltmarkct, 1803.'