EXCELLENCY of the KNOWLEDGES E R M O N,Preached, O&ober 2ad 1761, at Colinftuirgh, Fifefliire,upon the admiffion of the reverend Mr Thomas Col¬lier to the exercife of the holy miniftry in the diffent*xng congregation there.the Rev. Mr Tho. Rostov MiniRer of.'tfie GofpelCHRIST CRUCIFIED:Aat Jedborgh.¥?a, doubtlefs, and I count ail things but lofs^ for the ex* . icellency of the knowledge ofChriJl J*fusy Phil. 3, &The EXCELLENCY of theKNOWLEDGE of CHRISTC A U C I F I E D.'i Corinth ii. 2.Torjglermmed not to know any thing among you, faveWmoChrtJt, and him crufified.* * preceding words, the Apoftle begins a vindi*1 cation of the manner of his preaching, which he fay3»,j was not with excellency of fpeech or of wifdora.: And,ver.4th, he adds, “ My fpeech and my preachingu was not with the enticing words of man’s wifdom-,j '» “ but in demonftration-of the Spirit, and of powerf* ”k It appears-there were in his days, as there are in ours,! many who greatly admired a fine ftyle ; not fo muchregarding the fubjeft matter of a (ermon, as the preach-I er?s> language and manner of addrefs. Of thjs fort wereij they who had been inflrufted in the Platonic philofophyj before their converfion toehriiiiantfy, and were for in¬troducing among the preachers ^i ;. that religion, whatthey called gracious miinn$r.-: T.he Apofile fre-iquently in this epiftie declares agaihft this piece ofvanity, as very much below the dignity of the GofpehHe did not lludy pompous words curiouliy aranged, andrhetorical harangue's, or nicely acijufted periods, to ticklethe ear and pleale the fancy of thofe who pretendedf A DIVINE of confiderable note both in.the learned and reHg*#tisworld, in his Commentary upon thefe words, hatV this objeAion; “ Oughtthen minifters to uie no ttudy, but talk whatfoever comes firii into their-" beads?” His anfwer is;,‘ By no means. It is one thing to iWy‘ matter, another thing to ftudy words : nay, it is one thing to tludy a* decency in words, another to iludy.a gaudry of phrafe.. It is an old* and true laying, Vcrha, fcquuntur res, words will follow matter, if the* preacher be but of ordiuary parts. In the ftudy of words-we have but-‘ two things to attend . i. 1 hat we fpeak intelligibly, fo as all the peo.#, ‘ pie may underftanJ. i. 1 hat we fpeak gravely and decently. Alio-'■ \' thor ftudy of words and phrafes in a divine is but folly and vanity,’A 2( 4 >to a refined and polite tafte in thefe matters. And tharea(on for this partof his condnft is afligned in the text |J determined not to knew any thing among you. fave jfefusCkrji, and him crucified.In which words, two things a[e pbfervable : ^ ■*l. The fubjeft matter of Paul’s preaching,Jefus Cfftyft : I determined to know nothing artUMhcu,fane Jefus Chrifi. This furely is not to be uniH^odas if the Apoftle fimply condemned all other kno^Kgebut that of Jefus Chriil. We find the Holy Ghfl^BL,recorded it to the honour of Mofes, “ that he was“ ed in all the wifdom of the Egyptai'ns.” Betides, Paulhimfelf had a very liberal education before his converfi*on, being bred up at the feet of Gamaliel an eminentdottor of the law. Yea, he was not only acquaintedwith the Jewith laws, ikes and traditions, but likewilewith the Heathen poets and philofophers, as appears bypaflitges quoted from them in his writings *. However,he condemns all forts of knowledge, in lb far as they* T H * R e are three paflages of thi^tindcomrooiily alledged. The firflis, A&sxvii. »8i “ Ai certain alfo of your own poets have faid ” Hementions many of them ; bccaufe in Homer, Heliod, Menander, Cal¬limachus, and i’indar, are fomc things which make to this purpofe. ButPaul being a Cilician, eites only the words of his own countryman. A'latus the Ciliciau:For -we arc all bit offspring.This halfverfc is read in Aratus his Phocnomma, the mod efteemedof all his works, and which were tranilatcd out of Greek into Latin byCicero, while he was but very young. See Dr Du Veil on Acts, xvii, j8.The fecond is, i Cor. xv. 33.Evil comnimu ations corrupt good moaners.This fentencc, fome tell us, is quoted from Menander an old Greekpoet, and that it is to be found in his comedy called Thadia, or Thais.Ecza fays, he found this remark in an ancient copy of the New Teila-ment. His own words are, Ltmbicus eft J'eUarius in Menaudri comocdia,.ti'j/mne Tbadia ; ut annotatam invent in uno vetufto cedicc. Now this faysplainly that he found no fucli remark in auy other ancient copy, thoughit is frtll known he had a large cotleftion of them. Krafiuus, in his An¬notations on the text, makes it a quotation from Menander, and that up¬on the autliority of Jerom. But neither l>r Hammond nor Dr Whitby,in their Faraplirafcs and A nnotations, point their readers to Menander orany other Heathen as the Author of this fentiment; and they wereboth eminent for their fkilliti.critical learning.( 5 )come Id cempetitlon with, or ftand in oppofitlon to, theknowledge ot jefus Chrift. Neither was this a warmflight of devotion, or a thought that fuddenly ftruck the.the effifr of-the molt attentive confideration,►f'the irioft deliberate and lerious enquiry Soijj&rted in what is here rendered determined.If.hiniad laid; ‘ I have well weighed the cafe, Ined it round, and balanced advantages and dif-l&ges, gains and Ioffes; 1 have endeavoured ton every thing that merits copfideration here ; j after the molt lerious, deliberate and impartialfcrutiny, this is my fettled opinion, my fked fenti«ment, That no knowledge whatfoever is worthy to beonce named with the knowledge of “ Jefus Chrift my“ Lord, for whom 1 have iuffered the lofs of all things,“ and do count them but dung,” (or dogs meat, as theGreek word imports) “ that 1 may win Chrift, arid be“ found in him, net having mine own righteoulnds,“Now, this being the great Apoftle’s judgment, weneed not wonder that he determined to know nothing,I humbly conceive, we have no proper authority to alledgc thatPaul an infpired writer borrowed this lenience ftyiij Menander, Or anyother, unlcis himfclf had told us lb. faf lefs can I think rtm’this leu-tence, fuppoiipg it to have been quoted from Menander, will prove thatPaul was iriendly-difpofed towards the Stage, as is iniinuated by the a uthsvof a pamphlet entitnled, Tbt Morality oj Mage plays JeriouJly coifuietej.printed Edinburgh 1757.I Won t> e r this Gentleman had not with the fame fagacity difeover'ed Paul’s attachment to the. Heathen deities, betaufe an :nfpirc4 writertells us, “ he was in a Ihip of Alexandria, whole lign w as Caltor and*• Pollux.” It is truely ttrauge to obllrve, what low. filly, and abfurdthings will be vented by very fenlible men To help them,out witn a belov¬ed hypothecs.1 he third is, Titus i. i». “ One of ihemfelvcs, c“ their own, laid,.a prophet of. The CnHain are always liars, evil hafts, flow tellies.”. This ebarafter of the Cretans is in the original Greek aa Hexameterverfe quoted from Epimenides the poet, whom I’aulhere calls “ a prophetof the,r own,” viz. the Cietians his countrymen, among whom hetfi) Phil, iii, 8, y.1I? z. e. to make nothing known among th£ people, but JefusChrifh This excellent, this matchlels One, Ihould hethe fubjeft of all his lermons, difcourfes and epiftles. Hewould ttudy firft to know Chi ill for himfelf, aj^jhento make him known unto the people  heretJH^ngan examplq to minifters of the gofpel in alhlu^Hfcgages, that they (liould foil be Chtilliaus, ana the^^K-.i: tiers and further, that, however well they nSBeaccotnphlhed it> the feveral parts of human learning^itin their pulpit-minillrations, they Ihoulddifp!ay nothingbut the glory, the lover and the laws of the Lord Jefus-Chrift. I his is the mean appointed of God for thefalvation of finners ; and, though it be efleemed foolifh-ncls .by the ivitlings of the world,, we jliay reft latisfied |in this, that the only wife- God kno\# very well how :j to adaptthe means to the end. f|l .he Ipecial eonfideration of Cflfift which he fin*gles out from, among all the re% to be- the lubjeft ofhis preaching, namely, Chnjt ctucifed. It is not Chriftrifen, Chrift afcended, and fitting at the right hand ofGod clothed with all power, that he pitches on, thoughthefe views of him were more likely to have reconi*mended him to the world,.- but, behold ! he Angles outthat very cucumftance concerning. Chi ift, which, oi allh others, neither Jews nor Gentiles were aole to endure ^! su^i that \yas, his being nailed to a crols till he died!■ “ Chrift crucified was to the Jews a ftumbling-block,| “ and to the Greeks fooli&nels.” And indeed he was| fa to Paul himfi If, as much as to any man, before hisconverfion; loi he was, by his own acknowledgment,“ a blafphemer, a perlecutor, and injurious. ” Nay, wefind, the dilciples could not bear the intimation of Cht ill’s,death when it was made to them byVtmfeifi. Peter re*monftrates againft it vigotoufly. The truth is, thefegood men laboured under the prejudices of a Jewilh e-ducation ; and they never awaked fully out of the dreamof a temporal kingdom, until the day of Pentecoft, thatthe Holy Ghoft came down upon them, and cleared upthe my fiery of the crofs unto them ; and then, indeed,' they went lorih with boldnels, boshing and glorying int T >that very thing which the wcrld thought a badge of!j thame and infamy.And now, methinks, this determination of the moftI famous preacher and apoftle of the Gentiles furnifhes us\ with a leflbn very (uitable to the occafion of our meeting| here tfiTs “tiay, namely, ‘ That the doftrine of Chrife‘ cru^fed, is that which miniftefs of the gofpel (hould* chiaHrftudy to knaw and to make known among thej ‘ peopie.’In difcourfing farther on this fubjeft, we propofe,|i through Divine afllftance, firft. To confider what is thatknowledge of Chiilt crucified which minifters of the gotpel ought to have. Secondly, Tolhow how miniftersI of the gofpel fhouk! make Chrift known- among the1 people. Thirdly, Tp-point out in fome particulars theexcellency of the knowledge of Chrift crucified aboveIf all otfier knowledge-whatsoever.I As to the firft thing propofcdcr/z- what is that know! ledge of Chrifrcrucified, which minifters of thegpfpelI ought to have? we fay,I i. Ail Chriftians, but efpectally mi'nifters of the goti pel, ought to have the fpeculative Knowledge of Cfiriltcrucified, as by their office they are bound to make him'known unto others. They fhould be “ fcribes well in-“ ftru&ed unto the kingdom of heaven, and able t«“bring forth out of their treafure things new and old.”They thouldknow and underftand the evidences of theChiiftian religion, and likewaysrthe. particular dofirinesand duties thereof; that lo they may be able not onlyto inltrufV the weak and ignorant, but alfo to defendChrilti mity againft the attacks of Deifts and Infidels,and all other enemies of the truth as it is in Jtffus.Now, as he who would be maflerof any art or fci»Ienct, will chufe to read the belt books written thereon ;Ho thefe who delire to make proficiency in the knowledgeof Chrilt, would by ali means ftudy the holy feripturesof the Oldand New. Teflament: thele, my brethren,tire the grand charter of our falvation, and they areC 8 }* fealed by the blood of our Saviour.-—Thk fame Jefusis, as it were, the running title of the whole Bible. AHthe prophets fpoke of him ; all the piieftsio their facredfervices were types of him, and pointed towards him.——Judailm was Chi UHanity under a vail, as Chrifliani* «ty is Judailm unvailed. Therefore the Old Telhamcntought to be carefully ftudied by miniflers of the.^&tpel,as well as the New ; forafmueh as Chrili is thVfci peand fubflance thereof. And for the better underftand-ir.g of both Teflamcnts, it is quite neceflaiy theyfliould be acquainted with the original languages inwhich they were written. The llrength and beauty ofmany paflages in the Old Tetlamcnt, and even the trueknte ot fome of them, cannot be difeerned by fush asare utterly uuacquainted with the .Hebrew language.And I cannot but take notice of it, as what deferves tobe regteted, that the ftudy of that language Ihould havegone lo much into deiuetude in this nation, efpecially 'among the Clergy, whole office it is to'explain the Icrip-tures unto the people, and therefore ought to be lur«nilhed with every thing nectflary lor their own undep-ftandrng^of them. But we have Jome ground to hope*that this error may in procefs of time be red.fied, as thereappears a greater inclination for that llndy, bothin this and in the neighbouring nation, than heretofore.Ministers of the gofpel ought, like Appollos, tobe mighty in the feriptures. bonus tbcologus, bonus|| Uxtuarius, was the laying of old. They (hould readthem regularly, frequently, and with great atienti-| on ; and thereby they will be fumiffied with a better1:1 fund for preaching Lhritlianity, than by reading any o«I ther book, or all other books whatloem that have beenwritten on the lutjeff; though’ thefe alio are veryufeful in their proper place.2. TitiY ought atlo to have the experimental ard}■ praffical knowledge or ChrHl Ci ucified ; leaf!, while theypreach him to others, themfcilves be cujf uwuys, as theApollle’s phtafe is. The moll pr ecious truths fio&uat-ingin the head, but not delcemling into the heart, nor| landilying it, prove no better than the manna ot old,( 9 )which when kept over night, ftank and bred worms:however diftinftly we apprehend evangelical truths, yetif they are unmixed with faith, apd indigeftcd by prac*tice, they will bleed the noxious humours and cruditiesof pride, felf conceit, hypocrify and profanenefs.R e a i. religion^ my brethren, does by no meanseonlitt in the merely fpeculative knowledge of its truths ;wife, the devils themfelves would have more reli-;han the beft of us j, for albeit they have lofl theirand holinefs, we have no ground to think they■>ft their knowledge and fagacity. The fcripture^^^ “They believe and tremble (</) ,” which im-pUe|^ieir knowledge. As for carnal unregenerate men,whajl ever are their abilities natural or acquired,i'-cyTcnow Chridianity only in a book ; whereas realriOtans have felt the exceeding greatnefs of its power;ylhave fuch ideas and fuch imprelfions of fpiritual^S madc upon their minds by the Holy Ghoft, as the. ral man knows nor at a'l.Suprose the piffure of a man drawn as lively, and'] as near to the original as poflible; yet they who have feenij the man himfelt, and converled with him, will have a«| nother fort of idea of him than thofe poffibly can have,I who never faw him but in the gifture. A man who hasil read Geography, may deferibe the complexion, religion,I laws, cuftoms, commodities, and c.uriofities of different} countries which he never dwelt in, nor travelled throughi bur the man who has lived in thofe countries, and leeaI all thefe things with his eyes, and often converfcd with1 the inhabitants, muft have an idea and an impreffion ofI them, which the man who has only read or heard ofI them knows nothing about..How neceffary then is the experimental knowledgeof Chrill to minifters of the gofpcl f Let them have therich eft cargo of gifts and learning you can fuppofe, yet,without this, they are but very poorly tumilhcd| for their office, and the difeharge of it is mote likelyto be the drudgery of their lives, than the delight ottheir fouls.(<0 James ii. ifl.'( ’OfA preacher of Chrift, yet not a believer in CHriff !a minifter of Chrifl, yet a fei vant of fin ! what monftrousconneftions are thefe ? “ Thou therefore which teach.-a eft another, teacheft thou not thyfelf ? 1 hou that** preacheft a man ftiould not fieal, doft tbou fleal (e) ?”In fhort, thofe who preach Chriftianity, without realand faving impreflions of it upon their own hearts, are^no better than aftors upon a ftage, where a villain often,perforates the moft virtuouscharafter, and where all is-mere fiftion. But,I11. I proceed to the fecond thing in our method,viz. To Ihew how minillers of the gofpel fhould makeChrift crucified known among the people.i . They Ihould make him known by preaching. To.this purpofe the reverend Apoftle of the Gentiles tells us,*' After that in thewifdom ol; God, the world by wil-“ dom knew not God, it pleafed God by the foolilh-“ nets of preaching to lave them that be!>ve. For the** Jews require a fign,a«d the Greeks feek after wifidom :“ but we preach Chrift crucified, unto the Jews a ftum-“ bling'block,and unto the Greeks fooli/hnefs; butun.“ to them which are called, both Jews and Greeks,“ Chrift, the power of God, and the'wifdom of God.’*And in another place, “ For we preach not ourfclves,“ but Chrift Jefus the Lord (/).” 6c. True it is, weare not apofiies ; this high title belongs not to them whoare now minifters of the golpe!; they have neither the.\ j call, nor the qualifications, nor the charge of fuch *•| (<?} Rom. ii. 4i.[ if) i Cor. t 4i, ii, xj. i Cor iv. 5,* The apottles had four fpecialities in their character and office. r»They had an extraordinary call to their office. Paul fliles him (elf” an•• apoftle, not of men, neither by men, but by Jefus Chrift and God thefj •' father,” i hey took not the office upon them of their own accord norwere they called to it by the votes and fuffrages of the people It was anew religion they were fa propagate in the world ; therefore Jefus Chrift,.d e author of it, chofe a fet of men whom he called Apoftles, to preachJ it ajnong all nations, i. They had extraordinary qualifications fordie difeiiarge of that office They preached and wrote as the Holy Ghoft,i|l iofpired them. They had the gift of tongues, which enabled them tomake the goipel kuown among all nations in a very Ihort time. They*( II )Neither had thefe who were apoftles and fuceefibrsin their office properly fo called. At the fame time,jefus Chrift certainly deligned there fhonld be a fet ofmen fucceffively, who fhould have it for ?heir officeto teach and preach his religion to the end of time. Andes fuch an inftiturion feems founded on common fenfeI and reafon, and upon the univerfal praflice of mankindJ in reference to religion ; fo it feems to be very plain*ly intimated by our Saviour himfelf before his afcenlion,’ when he fays to his difciples *' Go ye therefore, and“ teach all nations, teaching them to obferve allI u things whatfoever I have commanded you ; andloli u am with you always, even unto the end of the worldI “ (£) We all-know ihefe good men lived but fhort while1 in the world : however, the promife originally made to(< them, extends to faithful minifters of tne gofpel in theirf leveral generations, to the end of time. There!ore,| whatever be pretended, it appears to me a very unfriend-,1 ly office to Jefus Chrifl: and his religion, to depreciate a[ public mimltry It is an attempt to blali what the. Lord has moft certainly blefled in all ages to the conver*| fion of fouls.1 But then minifters of Chrift muft be preachers of| Chrift; they fhould make him known among the people,v 1 by preaching his doflrines, his in/iilutiorts and his lawsk and commandments. Under thefe three, I conceive,& what is called preaching of Chrijt may be comprehend*’ 1 ed.I could heal the Tick, reftore the lame, and raife the dead to life again; and,| by the laying on oi their hands, they could convey the gifts of the HolyI Cihoft unto others. 3. They were not confined to any particular church OrII congregation, but preached the gofpel all the world over according to thetcommiflion Chrift gave them before his afeenfion, “ Go, teach all nations;“ go, preach the gofpel to every creature under heaven.” 4. They hadteen the Lord Jefus after his refurrefhon; and fo vere well qualified tobe witnefTes thereof unto the world, t’aul was not called to this officetill after tho afccnfion; neverthelefs, he aflhres us that he law the LordJefus: “ Laft ot all, he was feen of mcallb. asof one born out of due“ time.” And thus he could tefdfy what he had feen, as well as the othc'apoftler(£ ) Matth. Kxviii ip, *0.. # -( n )Ministers Ihould lay before their people the evi*denccs of the truth of Chriftianity in a way fuited untotheir capacities, that fo they may be able to give a ica-fon of the hope that is in them, and be fortified againftthe attacks of Deifts and Infideb, who abound everywhere in this degenerate age. However, they oughtnot to infift always upon thefe, but to open up the par-ticnlar dcffrincs of Chriflianity, fuch as concern theperfon, natures, offices, and grace of the Lord Jefus.They fhould endeavour to convince finners of their loftftate by nature, their abfolute inabiliry to recover them-felves, and the indifpenfible neceffity of coming to Je¬fus Chrift as the one and only Mediator betwixt Godand man And, in order to obtain this good end, thelaw muft be preached, its threatenirgs and curfes muftbe founded loud in the ears of finners; —they muft 'be alarmed with the thunder and fire from mount Si¬nai “ for the law is our fchool mafter to bring us in toChrift f.”They fhould open up that grand tranfaftionbetwixt God the Father and God the Son, in behalf ofmankind finners, called the covenant of grace, with all thebleffings and benefits contained therein, as effe&ua! cal¬ling, juftification, adoption, regeneration, fanftification,the inhabitation of the Spirk, perfeverance in grace, andtire heavenly kingdom.Farther, minifters of the gofpel fhould declare theordinances and inffitutioos of Chrift. Our Lord’s laftwords, when he was leaving the world, were, “ Teaeh-** ing them to obferve all things whatfbever I have com-f How well tills important point was underftood by our Divines ofthe reformation, appears from the famous Mr Tindal, commonly calledthe Apojtie of England, in his letter to John' Frith, written JanuaryIJ33 — ‘ Expound the law truly, and open the vail of Mofes, to con*• demn all fidh, and prove all men finners, and all deeds under the law,‘ before mercy hath taken away the condemnation thereof, to be fin and• damnable; aoi then. as a faithful minifter, let a broach the mercy of i1 our Lord Jefus, and let tfie wounded confciences drink of the water of J■him. And then fhali your preaching be with power, and riot as the |" hypocrites. And the Spirit of God fhali work with you, and all con-• feitnees fhali bear record unto you, and feel that it is fo. And aQ doc-• trine that cafleth a mift on thefe two, to fhadow and hide them, I mean• the faw of God and mercy of Chrift, that relifi you with all your powet( *3 >ff mandcJ you,” &c. The pofitive iaftitutioos of ChiUftlanity, for all Che clamour and noife that ha# beenmade about them by Infidels, are but few in number,and of caiy obfcmtVori; eipcci.dly v/hen compared withthe iiiui.il of the jew*iU chu»ch, once of ifieine ialliiu*tion, and which the Apofile Peter calls “ a yoke thstS " neither they nor their fathers were able to hear. ’j But then minifters of the gofpel mull preach the lawsI and cornraaadments of Chriit. Hence we find the great! Apollle of the Gentiles, in "his cp files, al ways fuS,jo;nsunto the do&riaes of free grace, (which he had a parti-i cular talent of dilplaying), the wai meil exhortations to| piety, holinefs and ri&hteoufnefs in iheir-leveral bran¬ches. For he well knew how prone corrupt nature is to1 divorce comfort from duty, and to turn the grace ,ofGod into wantennefs.TiiEgofpel is “ a doflrine according to godiinefs,’’■it is a moll holy gofpe!-; and where it appears, itteaches ‘ to deny angodlinefs and worldly lulls, and to| ** live foberlypightcoufly and .godly in thkprefent woi k'.■** Whaifoever things are true, whatlbeva things- arepnre, whatfoevei things are Ipveiy, whatfoever, thingsIj *Vafe of good report; if there be any virtue, and| *! if there be any .praile.” the goipel of Chrill conunar dsi -us to “ thins on tUde things {'•) -THEKEnoaE, when miniflers declaim agahfi vice,either in general, or more particularly*—\vl;cn they in-j; culcate the duties oj fobticty; rightcouliKls and charity,It be people muft opt call it legal preaehinr.,or not preach¬ing ChilH.} for he who peaches il.t laws of C&ri/f,preaches Ghiill, as well as he wl o preaches the love of\hrijl. But then faiihful .preachers of the gofpcl, inurging duty and obedience upon the people, will be fureto remind them of their u. ter iolufaciency of themfelvesfor lb much as a good thought, and the neceffity of anentire dependence upon the Spirit and grace of thetord jefus, for afTtfiance and acceptance ip every goodwot-k. when thefc. things are duly obleivcd, duty can*inuclr urged, but *he preffing of duty withoutthun s a moftcriminal neglefl of thcgraeeofout Ltgd Je-0.) i itui ii. ii. u, rhil. iv. 3, ~ .1( 14 )ftis Chrift, and a piece of croeity to poor finners; whilethey are craved hard, as by an Egyptian talkmafter,for duty and fcrvice, and nothing afforded them where¬with to pay.2. Ministers fhOuld malic ChriH known among theirpeople by the ordinance of catechifing, In the primi¬tive church, catcchifing was very much the work of theirpaftors, and many wete fet apart for that very purpofe.Before peifons were admitted into full communion withthe church, the}’ were by catechifmg infhrifted in theprinciples of the Chriftian religion ; and, till fuch timeas they were judged fit to partake of the holy facia*ment, they Were called Catechumens.' The Apoflle Paul recommends it to the Galatiansto give all due encouragement unto thole who labouredin the work of catechifing among them : “ Let him that•* is taught in the word/'—according to the original, it•* is, “ Let him that is catechifed in the word, commu-“ nicate unto him that catechifeth, in all good things(/fr).” Several great and worthy men, both in the earlierand later periods of the church, have employed muchof their time in this fort of exercifc among the people,and have found it exceeding profitable unto them.And I apprehend, the knowledge of the principles of re¬ligion, which generally obtains amonglt tbe common¬alty in Scotland is in a good meafure owing to the lau¬dable cuflom of catechiling praftifed by their roinifters:whereas id the countries where it is neglefted, the com*mons are for-the moft part grofsly ignorant.Sermons ore addrefled to a whole afleiiibiy, and bythe far greateff numberot the audience very little attendedunto. Befidcs, the fubjeft of a fermon is probably butone fingle point or cioftiine of Chriftianity ,* whereas, ata diet of catechifing, one may hear the principal doc-ttines of the whole iv (tcid opened up : and the attentionpt the people is. better kept up, w hen they are partica-Jarly. called upon to give the teafons of their faith andhope.X.et us, then, who are miniflers carefully difehargeour duty in this particular, elpccially among the ycfffli-(k) Gal. vi, 6.  ( r5 >ger fort; and, through the divine bleffing, it will havevety good cfFefts.3. Ministers (hould make Chrift known amongtheir people by occafional inftruttion, exhortation, con-folation and reproof. Let us hear Patti’s awful chargeto his fon Timothy:—" I charge thee therefore beforen God and the Lord Jefus Chrifi, who Hi all judge th^“ qaick and the dead, at his appearing and his kingdom”—Strange ! what murt that be which the Apoftlechar*ges withfuch an awful folemnity ?—“ Preach the word,be inftantin feafon, out of feafon ; reprove, rebuke,a exhort with all longfuffering and doflrine (/ )” Mint*fters (hould have a deep fenie and impreflion of theweight of their work always abiding upon their fpirits,as alfo a tender concern for the {late of their flock ; andthen they will readily embrace every opportunity of pro¬moting their edification in faith and hjolinels Befldesthe dated and conflant parts of the minillerial work,which ftiould be diligently attended unto; a faithful mi*nifter will find leveral osccafions of dealing with pai ticu-lar perfoDs, for their conviction in cafe of offence, fortheir direction in difficulties,for their clearance in doubts,or for their comfort in difirefs- And the word, thusparticularly applied by one having “ the tongue of thelearned to fpeak a word in fealon,” has often beenbleffed with remarkable fucccfs.4. Ministers fhould make Chrift known among thciifpeople by exemplifying hi* life in their own lives. Paultells the rheflalonians,—“ Ye are witneffes, and Godalfo, how holily, juftly and unblam’able we behaved" ourftflves among you that believe (w).” Mankindhave in all ages been more eafily influenced by examplethan by precept. And this is thought to be one 1 eaionwhy the Heathen philofbphets had fo little luccefs inreforming the world, viz. that many of them praftifedthofe very vices in their lives, which they declaimed a-gain if in iheir public k Chores. Therefore minilltrs ofthe gofpel, above all men, fhouid be careful to “ adorathe doCtrine-of God our Saviour” by their holy works;—they fhould not give the leaft countenance to the vkes,(0 * Tim. iv, l. uBac jV )ranitlcs and frolics of the age-—I'n any company wherethey happen to m .K, they flicuid (peak anil' z& in aluitahlencfs to their facred and venerable characterthey Ihpuld he as fbmany living Bibles {cattereel up amfdown the ChrifHsn world, ^ that they who knmv not“ the word, may aHh, witbont the word; be won’* bytheir holy and exemplary ^onverfaMbn (w)-It was fard of one of the niinlfters of the primitivechu: ch, that he thundered in his Ajftrine, and lightenedin his life. And a greater than he was called " a bur-** ningand a fhinin^ light,” r/z John Baptift—He cal-led bimfelf, in his great humility, a voice ; ** I am thevoice of one cryingin the wildernefs, Ptepare ye theway of the Lord.” A voice! the Joweft of entitiesrwhich owes its very being to rbe breath of the fpeaker.'And, indeed, he was- all a voice ;—a voice in his con*ver/atiorj. If, then, we who ate minifters would com*mend OhrifI and his religion to the people, let us walkbefore them as he alfo walked ,- and thus we will preachto them by our lives, as well as by our lips.HI. I proceed now to the third thing propofed, viz.To point out the excellency of the knowledge of Chrift1crucified above all other knowledge whatfoever. On this*head I-offer the following particulars r-i, The knowledge of Chrift cracified excels all other-knowledge irrpnint of certainty. That fuoh a perfon asJelus of Nazareth appeared in Judea, in the reign of Ti¬berius,. is agreed by all.:—The birth of this perfon, his>manner of life* his dodriiie, and his death, exactly cor—relpond. with the prophetic accounts of the Meffiah to-be found in-the antient Jewilh records. He proved him-fclf to be tlie.l*anie Mefiiah, the Son of God, and a divine,perfon., by his dodtrine, and by a feries of inconteftiblemiracles, not done in a corner, or fome fmalf inconfide-rable village, but done in Jerufalem the capital ot thenation; and not' before friends only, or a icledt num¬ber of witnefles, but publicly, in the pretence of thou-fands, the moff of whom were his bittereft adverfanes,and had all the inclination imaginablerto diiprove them,(m) » Theff. ii, 10. (») i Peter itt. *,■ . • t ( if ')Bad it been m their power. After they had murderedhirn, and laid him in his grave, under a triple fecurity,| the (lone, the Teal, and the watch ; yet, according to hisj own prediction, he role the third day after his death;; He did not indeed appear publicly before the Jewilh na¬tion after his refurrection, as he had done before his3 death: but the whole college of the ajioftles, men of| iufficient abilities for difeerning,  men of untaintedj candour and integrity, go to death, one after another,I maintaining the fame thing,-tvs. that they faw withi their eyes Jcfus of Nazareth alive; that they eat anddrank, and converled familiarly with nun, fat no lelsthan forty days after he had been both dead and buried.Thus the refurredtkm of Chrift, upon which the wholeof chriftianity depends, ftands upon the moft undoubtedI evidence*. Now,my brethren, befides the externahe-vidence for the truth of chriftianity, arifmg from mi-| racks and prophecies, which the acuteft adverfarieshave not yet been - able to difprove; real believers havethe inward-witnefs of the Spirit of God, convincingI them of the truth of Chriftianity, with a certainty be¬yond all moral fuafioas-or mathematical demonftraiionsin the world.2. Thk knowledge of Chrift crucified excels all otherj knowledge irt'pomt of cafiflefs and plainnefs; How dif-* V.' - are ready to think that the evidence of Chrift’s refnrrefticifiwould have been tironger, had he appeared as publicly after it, as he didbefore his death. Why, lays one; did ;he not fltew him fell to the prlcftsI and elders of jenifalenr? and then the whole city would- have believedJ oil him'. And why, may-anothcr fay, did he not go to Rome, andftew hirtifelf to the’ Romm emperor and the fenate ? And a third mayaflt, why he did notappear iii Britain ? For- when vain men begin withtheir prefumptuous -wfys and -wherefores, there is no end of them. Butthe evidence we have of his refuntflion is fuch as gives abundant fatis-faff ion to candid and unprejudiced enquirers, ard yet leaves room forthole to objeft who are wilfully ignorant and oWiiiate in their unbelief.And this is a fair trial, futted to the cale of thole who are probation¬er:, . An overpowering and ii-refillble' evidonce, clear of all diffi¬culties and objections, would hie no tri:1!; and therefore, when wequarrel for the want of it,, we forget who and where we ate, name¬ly, probationers, in' a dare of difcipHrte-and improvement for anotherworld. To espcH, fays the learned Bp. Butler, a d'jtiutt ceraprebcnjivevie-tv of the whole fubjebt (viz. Chriftianity) clear of difficulties and oijrtii-ens, is to forget oar nature and condition; neither of winch atlinit of anyfuel know ledge with ref pel} to any fiicitcc whatever: and to Inquire withtbk expectation, is not to enquire as a man, but as one of another order of, creatures. Sermons at the Rolls, ferttn i J. y. 309.» 3i i* y . -ficult is ir to get any tofcrable infight into the moft rtffciences ! how much time is nccdi'arily (pent in the veryRudiments and eiements of them ! and all this is bnt anintroduction into them.- How many years may a man'live, and ftudy hard too, and yet make but a ImaH pro*grefs in the knowledge of natural philofopby ? He mayfnow much in retyeCTof others whourc ignorant in thei'ematters, and jet know but wry little in companion ofwhat yet Remains to be drfcovered in the vait continentof nature.The honourable Mr Boyle,- a greatfeatfcher into na¬ture, a profound philofnpher, and at the fame tiove er/-tegether a Chrifinm, affirms, that the (hortnefs of man’9tile makes it impoffible for him to anderftand thorough¬ly any one thing iri nature. Befides, it is not the builtof mankind, nay, it is-only a few of them, that have ca¬pacity or opportunity for philofophical enquiries. Bm jChriltianiry being designed for the benefit oi. mankindat large, it is pla n and ealy, and calculated for theweak eft capacity; fo that people of low life, and of lit*tie penetration, m:V}' make great proficiency therein. Itis true, indeed,-there are in the feriptunes. things hardto be p.nderftood, difficulties th:’t will ei.ercife the judg?ment of the greateft fcholars : hut tlien, thefe are re-n otc from the dtentjals of Chriftianity, and people-mayremain ignorant.of them without endangering their e-ternal falvationwhereas, the things abfoiutdy necef-■fary to be known are. exprefFed in fucH plain terms, tharhe who runs may read them. There are ih the ferip-lures IJiallow places where lambs may wade, as well as-'vhpths where elephants may fwim: and while learned-men cu.dchfputirs of .this 'txicrld contend abot:. chrono¬logical difficulties, or critical nicities; the me an eft andweakeft of the houfivold of faith may reft fatisfted, yea,be full of joy, while they know nothing but Jefus Ghrift,and him crucified.3. T he knowledge of Chrift crucified-excells all otherknowledge in point of fublimity. Hence, the Chriftiamjoins iffiue with the devout Plalmift, crying, “ Open thou“ mine eyes, that 1 may behold wondrous things out of“ thy law (/’).” What is the knowledge of languages,of arts and fciences ? what is the knowledge of naturepr of mankind, when compared with the knowledge ot“ God in thrift, reconciling the world unto himfclf,(y) Pfalmcxix. 19.———...     ^  4( -1* )! “ and not imputing tKeir trelpafFts iwito them? The*Avhole fyOem of nature, which contains lb many admir¬able curiofities, wras defigned chiefly as a. theatre to di£| play the revealed i'yftem upon for a while ; and there-, fore mud be as tar interior-unto-it, as the icaffoldiug is{ to the building'.i Th e gofpel is the hiflory of God afting in triune oe-i conomy for the recovery of mankind :—- it contains thei grandeft plot, plan, and contrivance that ever bred mI the bread of God, and which lay hid there from ali e-j ternity • ■■■■•it is “ the tnydeey God, and of Clirid e-“ ven the myllery th;W: hath been hid from ages andM from generations, but n«w is made manifed to thje“ faints (y).” This glorious gefpcl opens up unto usthe love,, grace, and manifold wifdoni of the FatJur-.;•thepenfon,-natures, oifices, and grace of the Son;—-t.hepeifon, nature,1 operaticais; and.iuduences-of tf^e HolyGhod, as the prime tninifier* in the mediatory kingdom.:1 it IblVes the grdnd probtemi-of thje Heathen world, w'g.the origin of moral-evil,:and.at the fame tipie difeoye^s; the only remedy for it.: ■-.-it points, out the uniyc^fttlcorruption of human nature, and the. only mea#: of dsrenovaaditrh brings life and immortalit y to light,j ‘opens unto us a jayful proigeft beyond the glpomy ihadesof deathaudicl the grave. Thefegrand and importaittthings, which the very angels dehre to look info, aye thefubject of the 'gofpel j and therefore, in point of fubli-| mity, it excels all other knowledge.4. The knowledge of Chii.d crucified excels all otherknowkdge in point of extettt and coippufs. Ip view ofI. this, David fays, I have feen an end of ail perftftion butf thy commandment is rtuyajing., broad. And the apodjePaul-prays for the JKphefians, That-they may be able t,o|; comprehend nvith all faints., ’what is the breadth, and[', length, and depth, and height; and to know the love ofi Chrift, which pajj'eth knowledge (i’ialm cxix. 96. Eph. iij.18. 19.) Other faiences are but lhadows, the gofpel is a1 bovmdlels bottorolcls ocean : it is the manifold wildomof God; a wtlilom of many plies and folds, as the word^imports. It isan allulion to a curious piece of ncedla-- work, wherein there are various expreffions of art; and- fo it is, as it were, the embroidered wifdom of God. Aa-gels, who excel in knowledge as well as (hength, delightthemfelvrs at prefent, and will do fo through eternity,(?) Col. i,»«.(20 ) . ,In contertipliitihg this wifdom. It is in the finding■Chrift as in the planting of fomc new dilcovered coutvtry; at firft-men fit down upott the Ihirts and borders,nnd there thty dw^l, till they fearch farther' into theheart of the conntt-y. And-indeed; ray brethren, thofewho have made the greateft progrefs in the Itlid/ andknowledge of Chrilt micified; are but yet on the bordersof this Yaft continent. Per no\u rx>e fee as through aglaft'darkly, noiv wi knonv in part, and itie prophefy in part:but:•when that tvbiv-h is perfcfi is center then that •whichis in pan jhali he done aisay,- ( l Cor; *fii. 9, 10. 12.)5. The knowledge of Cbrifi cru -ified excels'all otherknowledge in point of profit and ufetulnefs: for godlinefsis profitable unto all things, having prom'if ef the. lifenchich'novj is, and of that •which it to come, ft Tim. iw.8.) Arts and Ibiences, it-muft be acknowledged, havet aerr ufefulnefs; phtloibphy is a valuable thing: but,alas! of how little account are they, when comparedwith the knowledge of Qhrift crucified'? What thougha man perfectly underfed the heavenly bodies, in theirnature, motion, and influences .’ yea, what though aman underftand »U 'the fecrets of nature, and could un¬ravel her from the fcycamore to the QjPar ? If he is ig¬norant of JefuS Chrift,Sun of righUon/nefs, the brightand morning far, he with all his cargo of knowledgerhuft be loft and ruined forev|r.Ca tes a l- reafon and ph»ioi^>hy cannot give a fatisfy-ing anlvver to the weighty cafe of confcienee propened1by the Jiylbr’; “ Sirs; What mtift I do to be faved ?”—All the wifdom of Egypt and Athens falls jhort here,and leaves the inquifitive mind flhftuating in gainfuluncertainty. But the Apoftle, in very few words, fullyanfwers the cafe; “ Believe in the Lord Jefus Chrift,“ and thou lhalt be faved. This anfwer, as one©bferves, is fo old, that with many it feems out of date-;but it is ftill, and will ever be, new, and frelh, and fa-voury, and the only refolution of this grand cafe ofconference, as long as confcience and the world lafts.Let this then commend the knowledge of Chrift unto us,that it dire&s us in matters of the laft confequence andmoment, viz. how we lhall obtain the favour and friend-Ihip of God, and how we fliould fleer onr crurfe for abklfed and happy eternity. In fine, this knowledge is•profitable unto all things:—.it is profitable for prorper.-Ly, iiud for adverfity ;—for ficknefs,; ;md for health, for life, and for d<*th;—for time, and for eternity.6. TwE knowledge of Chrift crucified excels all otB*rknowledge in poiiic of pleafore and fatisfaftion : “ Wif-** dont’s ways are ways of pleafantnefs, and all her paths“ are peace (x}. The difeorery of truth, abfolutelyeonfidered, is accompanied with an intelledual, andtherefore with a manly pleafure, vaftly fuperior to allthe delights of fenfe : and the more important and in>terefting the truth i$ which we difeoter, the joy arifingfrom it is fo much the greater. 0 then, how ravifti-ing, how tranfporting beyond all' expreiSony muft thedifeoveries of Chrxlt be to the gracious foul f ‘ Theit* money perilh with them,’ faid the famous Italian con-rert, ‘ who think all the gold of the Indies worthy to be* compared with one hour’s communion with the Lord* Jefus.’ Surely the Chriftian who knows that God »his God in Chrift, has infinitely better reafon than Ci<*cero, upon finding the tomb of Archimedes, to try out,i have found it out! I have found it out l ’Moreover, the joy arifmg from the knowledge ofChrift abides with the faints in the day of diftrefs, mak¬ing them to glorify God in the fire, and to cry out inthe dark and cloudy night, * Hallelujah! he does all* things well rHowever much people living at cafe may bc plcs&iwith the fine difeourfrs of the Heathen philblophers a-bout bearing misfortunes; yet, when one is deeplyplunged in diftrefs, all- the fine fpeeches of Seneca, theimart Mayings of F.pi<ftetus, and the lolenm counfels ofAntoninus, prove but Job’s comforters: and a Anglefeatence of the Bible, fet home upon the heart by theHoly Gjioft, dffords infinitely greater confolation thanall the philofophers put together,. The fweet fenfe andexperience of this, made a great and good man exprefshimfelf after this manner, in a letter to a friend:—‘ I* defire to blefs his holy name who has delivered me‘ from the painful purfuit of what they call learning,y and from the fooliih pleafure of venting the little of it* tliat I kno%v. I write it on ail my books, and defire‘ to have it engraven upon my heart;—“ I determined“ to know nothing, but Jefus Chrift, and him crucified,”7. Lastly, The knowledge of Chrift crucified ex-|j cels all other knov/ledge in point of duration and conti¬nuance. That head which carries the richeft cargo ofhuman learning, will very foon be emptied of all, andlaid down, cold, aod icnfelefs, and lilent in a grave.: 4*) ftor, iiLtfrTire thowfedg* of policy, the art of war, languages,laws, cuftoms and hiftories, will be juft as ufeleft tfie mol-inent after death, as the knowledge of the meaneft me¬chanic: bttt the knowledge of Chriftwill goalongwith■us into the eternal world; and the more it is improvenhere, it will be fo- much, the more dilated hereafter,♦low thcfe things being duly confidered, we need not■wonder that Paul “ determined to know nothing but“ Jefus Chrift arid him crucified and that “ he count*-“ ed all things but lofs, for the excellency of this.know*-“ ledge.” >I conclude with a few practical inferences.t. Here we may fee the great worth and excellency©f the Chriftian religion. It clearly and fully afcertainsthe terras on which God will treat with guilty finners,in order to pardon and reconciliation it gives a fatifi-fndlory anfwer to that moft important and intereftingenquiry, “ What fliall I do to be faved i” while it di-re<fts the anxious enquirers to believing on the flain Son©f God, as the great ordinance of heaven for their re-Aoration into the divine favour.—Chrifttanity tells us■what Jefus Chrift has done for us and fuffered for us;—*•and what account God the Father makes of all this;—and what Cod and Chrift require and expeft of us as an.expreffion of gratitude for all this love and kindnefs.2. If the knowledge of Chrift be fo valuable, thenfliould not we lament the ftate of thofe nations tliat fitin the darknefs of ignorance ? My brethren, this gofpelis not the privilege of mankind all the world over: nay,*he proportion which the Chriftian world bears to theworld at large, is computed but as five to thirty, whichis a very fmall one. Should not we then lift up a pray¬er for our fellow men, that the light of the glorious goPpel may yet Ihine upon them ? Surely, if we love theLord Jefus, we will deftrean acceflion to his kingdom ;and therefore will, with a deep concern upon our fpi-rits, put up the ftccnd petition in the Lord’s prayer,“ Thy kingdom come.” Of fix petitions that are in thatprayer, the futft three relate to the Redeemer’s intereftin the world: ‘‘ Hallowed be thy name;—-thy kingdom“ come;—thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.”It is common with ns to bring in thefe great affairs to¬wards the end of our prayers, as it were to fpin out thetime, when the warmth and vigour of our fpirits arewell nigh fpeat. But the friends of Jefus Ihould noti ( *3 )leave that laft of all, which he has put fifft of all: atI leaft, whatever place they affign it ia their prayers, itIhould have great room in their hearts, and never beil mentioned but witl^rvency of foul.3. What a ihtrneTnl thing is it, that fo many of the| dailv hearers of the goipel fhould be grofsly ignorant ofi“ Chrift Ah my brethren, great numbers among u»II are deftroyed for lack of knowledge!” and the cafeij is not that they cannot get it, but that they are not for1i it. Their ignorance is not fimple and involuntary, butI wilful andaifetted. The light is come unto them, butlike bats and owls, they hate it, and “ chufe darknefs| “rather, becaufe thek1 deeds are evil.” They fay unto'i Cod, “ Depart from us; for we defire not the know-“ “ ledge of i!'y;v»'ays.” (job xki. 14.) Well, remember,‘•fj the day is faft"'approaching, “ When he will* dome in'“ flaming fire, taking vengeance on all them that know‘I not God, and obey not the gofpel.”4. The belt among Us, whether minifters or privatejf Chriltians, have reafon to lament and be afhamed thatII we have made 10 little progrefs in the knowledge ofji Ghrilf orhcifie J, Alas ! “ we are yet but as babes in| Ghiilt, and fuch as have need rlf milk and not offlrong* “ meat, being ur.fkilful in the word of righteoufnefs.'’!•' J (Heb. v. 13, 14.) ILet us then fhake off floth and indo-|l| lence;—let us fequeftrate’ ourfel res from the buftle and•‘III noife of a vain vexatious world, and betake ourfelvesi‘*| more c-lofeiy to the ftudy and contemplation of the mo ft• w glorious objeff ;- in other ivoi'ds, Chriit and him cruci-J fied. Angels are our condifciples and fellowfftudents, J| in this myitery; though their concern therein be not e-qnal with ours. It was our nature that he afliimed, andnot the nature of angels;—it was for us he laid down!his precious life, and nor for them we have the ho-inour to be members of his myftical body, not they*—»unto us is the gofpel preached, not unto them. Butthey love to hear Ghrift preached, and therefore they*attend ourworfhipping affembljes, and learn the mani¬fold wiidom of God from the church. Sq much the A-poitle intimates, when he fays, “ To this intent, that** now unto principali-tfes and powers, in heavenly pla-tf ?es, might be made known by the church, the mam->“ fold wifdom of Ge»d.” (Eph. iii io.)*: Let thefeeon-%fiderations excite us unto a more earned and diligentfiudy of Jefus Chrift, <f whom to know is life eternal.”{ 24.)l^ASrtv, We that are minifters of the goFpel flioul<Jlearn hence hoth the matter and manner of preaching.Let u» preach Chri ft crucified. This was Paul’s fubj«<a:and that man is certainly an igncAnt, proud and uiclefspreacher, that rcjfiifes to follow raid’s example, andmanages 4iis«mi*»ftry as if he had determined to knowany thing but jefus Ghrift and him crucified.—Let USendeavour to underftand, and to make our people un¬derhand, how Jtll the truths of the goipel meetiuChrift,as fo many lines in their centre. And at the fame time,let us be careful to urge obedience to all the laws of Je»iiis, from ftichmotives & principlesas the goipel iuggefts.And then, to the manner of preaching, let uscdo-clare the truths-of the gpfpel in the ftyie and languageofthegofpel, which is certaialy.the true fublime. Themodern embellilhmcnts of ftyie are as much below thedignity of the gpfpel, as they are above the capacity ofpopular auditories, and ferve only to dijplay the pride,pedantry, and 'filly affe*aation .of the fpeaker. Theymay indeed pleafe fuch as go to the church from thefame motive they go to the play-houfe, viz., for tlidr a-ipufement; but thofe wlm attend fermons that they maybe built up mvfaith and In holinefs unto falvadon, willnot find their account in them.I have often been much pleafpd with the charafterwhich b>r Bates gives Mr Ricluud Baxter as a preacher,in his funeralJertnov upon him. He fays;—‘ There* was a noble negligence in his ftyie; for his great mindt could, not lloop to .the afloSed eloquppce of words :‘ he defpifed Halhy oratory: but his j^pyeflions wereclear suid powerful, fo convinqiag thp^nidcrdautfiag,. * fo entering iaco the foul,- fo engaging ihe affeiSions,V that thofe were as deaf :ts adders, who were not thannr*. ed by fo <wife a charmer. He was animated wkh die‘l-Ifoly Spirit, and breathed celeftial fire, to infoire lireaC« and life into dead linuers, and to melt the obdurate in*. their iro/.en toirdts.’ . • i I- To conclude: In our preaching, let us accommodate,©urklves to the.capicities of tiit^ with whom we havetodo: let us dime itrch me;ijij||*.ye .adapted to thegreat eud oi.preaching, v. hichfi Jtb4l5'ing the he;trer to jtfie ..taovvleifos Cltriii Ui