WEDDING-RING,■|^ Jit for the Finger :, jc)< ",/i / o r, r/ws'/drsi li •• ' ; ...Salve of Divinity on the Sore of Humanity.r. iTD OVEN’ IN AISjLv.1O NUtXLf.iniD ATjL^p^ **?■ ■ t, ♦ v.> -V|*J ' -'.Vedd'mg in t>'r. Edmond’s London.By Mk. W I L L l A M. SEGUE R.i-ate Preacher of the G.ofpel.Genesis ii. fS.wsfnd the IjORD GOD fahi. It is not good that the Man> jhou.i be atone^ I 'mill make an help meet for him.GLASGOW,PR IN TED BY J. & M. ROBERTSON,•v Saltraarket, 1799.'f.v pi SCOT&N-D ■WEDDING-RING FIT FOR THE FINGERGenesis ii. iS.And the Lord God find, It is not goid that tf\man jlsould hi alone; / will make an help metfor him.'UMAN mifery is tadivine raercf asblack foil to a fparkling diamond, orfable cloud to the fun-beams, SJfal. vni.'jGLord, what is man that thou art mindful oMan is, in his creation, angeiical: incorruption, diabolical: in his renovation,;thological: in his tranflation, majefticalThere were four fiver channels in whicthe chryftal ftreams of God’s affeftion ran: tman in his creation.i. In his preparation. 2. In his afiimj|tion. 3. In his coronation. 4, In hh aflociation.1. In his preparation. Other creature:-? vcceived the char after of their beings by a fiihpie fat; but-thera was a confultation at hiforming •, not for the difhcuhy, but for the dignity of the work. The painter is more ftud:ous about that which he means to make himafter-piece. The four elements were takeout of their elements, to make up the perfection of man’s complexion: the fire was puri|fied, the air was clarified, the water was purgethe earth was refined. When man was moulded, heaven and earth were married: a bodfrom the one was efpoufed to a foul from thother.2. In his affimilation. Other creatures we:&J\A WLvDDINGN-G, &c.like themfelyes, but man was made like'Gbd, as the- wax hath the imprefiion of thesal. upon it. It is admirable to behojd fo faira pi&iwe on fuch coarfe canyls a&S (b brighta character on fo brown pa^sr. ,* .3. In his coronation. He that made manand all the reft, made man over all the reft;Quantillum Damnum pofuit Dens i;i tantum do-minum: he was a little, lord of b great iord-ftu’p : this king was crowned in his Cradle.4. In his aftociation. Society is the iblaceof humanity; the world would be a defartwithout a confort.M6ft of men’s parts are made in pairs j nowhe that was double in his perfedcion, muft notbe dngle in his condition: and the Lordfaid^ &c,Thefe words are like the iron gate that o-pened to Peter of its own accord; dividing' themfelves into three parts.. i. An introduction, And the Lord God faid.—2. An afiertion. It is not -good that manfkould be alone.—3. A determination, I willmake an help meet for him.In the firft, there is a majefty propefed,—In the fecond there is a malady preferred.—Inthe third, there is a remedy provided.Once more, let me put thefe grapes into theprefs.1. The fovereignnefs of • the expreihon :And tie Lord God faid. 2. The iblitarinets ofthe condition, it is not goodc. a The fuitab!e-nefs of the prcvifion, I will make, eiz.In the firft, there is the worth of veracity,—In the fecond, there is tjre want of fbciety*VA W E D D I N G-R I N G,—In the third, there is the work of divinity.Of thefe in their order.—And firft, of the frft.ift. The fovtreignnefs of the expreffion -jlnd the Lord God faid. Luke i. 70. As he[pah by the 'mouth qf his prophets.—In otherfcriptures, he ufed their mouths ; but in thishe makes ufe of his own ! they were the-or-gans, and He the breath they the earlyftreams, and He the Fountain. How Hefpoke, it is hard to be fpoken, whether eter¬nally, internally, or externally, Quomodo noneft, quod qucteremus fed potins quid dixerit in-telligamus •, we are not to enquire into the man¬ner of fpeaking, but to the matter that is fpok¬en \ which leads me, like a directing ftar, fromthe fuburbs to the city,'from the porch to thepalace, from the founder of the mine to thetreafure that is in it: it is not good, &c. Inwhich you have two things •i. The fubjeft.—2. The predicate. Thefubjedt, Mnn alone; The predicate, It is netgood. &c.i. The fubjedt.—Man alone •, take this intwo branches. 1. As it is limited to one man.2. As it is lengthened to all men.Fir ft. As it is limited to one man ; and foit is taken particularly: Man for the firft man.When all other creatures had their mates, A-dam wanted his ; though he was the emperorof the earth, and the admiral of the feas, yetiif paradife without a companion •, though hewas truly happy, yet he was*not fully happy;though he had enough for his board, yet hehad not enough foe his bed; though he had1'fit FOR THE FINGER. 5many ci-eatares to ferve him, yet lie wanted acreature to folace him; when he was com¬pounded in creation, he muft be com pleatedby conjunction; when he had no lin to hurthim, then he mull have a wife to help him,II is. net good that man fhould be alone.Secondly, As it is lengthened to all men}and fo it is taken univerfally, bieb. viii. 4.Marriage is honourable unto all. it is not onlywarrantable, but honourable. The whole Tri¬nity have ^onfpired together to fet a crown cfglory upon the head of matrimony.1. God the Father; marriage was a treeplanted within the walls of paradife, the flow¬er firft grew in God’s garden.2. The Son; marriage is a cryftal glafs,wherein Chrill and the fainfs do fee each o-ther’s faces.3. The HolyGhoft; by his overfhadowmg of the bleifed Virgin.—Well might bworld when it faw her pregnancy, fufped he-'virginity; but her matrimonial conditioi \ynsi a grave to that fufpicion ; without this, her in¬i' nocency had not prevented her infamy; fhe1 needed a fhield to defend that chaftity abroad,i| which was kept inviolable at home.Too many that have not worth enough topreferye their virginity, have yet will enoughto cover their unchaftity : turning the medi¬cine cf frailty into the mantle of filthinefs.Certainly fne is mad that cuts off her leg to gether a crutch, or that venoms her face to weara rnafk.Raul makes •? one cf the characters of thofeS6 A WEDDING-RING,that fhould cherifh the faith, i Tim. iV. 3,Nc)tto forbear marriage, which is not only law¬ful, but alfo honourable ;—to forbid which, isdamnably finfu!, and only taught by the influ¬ence of devils.One of the Popes of Rome Iprinkles thisunholy and impure drop upon it, Carnes ■pol-lutionem & imrnunditum.It is ftrange that fliouid be,a pollution, whichwas iniiituted before corruption ; or that im¬purity which was ordained in the ftate of inno-cency j or that they fnould make that to be afm, which they make to be a facrament; flrange iftupidity ! Put a baftard may be laid at thedoor of ehaftity, and a leaden crown fct upona golden head. <Bellarmine (that miglrty Atlas of the papalpower) blows his flunking breath upon it: Bet¬ter were it for * priefi to defile himfelf withmany harlots, than to be married to one wife.—Thefe children of the purple whore prefer mo-nsfteries before marriages, a concubine beforea companion.—They ufe too many women fortheir lufts, to chufe any for their love.—Theirtables are fo largely fpread, that they cannotfeed upon one difh.As for their exalting of a virgin flate, it is|like him that Commended fading, when he hadrilled his belly.Who k;iows not that virginity; is a pearl ofa fparkling luflrc ? But cannot the one be fetup, without the other be thrown down ? Wiltlno oblation pacify the former, but the demo-H.billing of the latter ? Tho’ v\e find many ene-SFIT FOR THE FINGER. 7mies to chcice of marriage, yet it is rareto find any demies to the ufe of marriage.They would pxv the lock that want the key,and pluck the fruit thi-t do not plant the tree.The Hebrews have a %ing, that, He is nota man that hath not a ‘Wif*:.—Though theyclimb too high a bough, yet it is to be fearedthat fuch fiefh is full of imperfection that isnet tending to propagation ; Though man a-lone may be good, yet, It is not good that manjhouhl be alone: which leads me from the fub>jedt to the predicate, It is not good, &c.Non bomun, is not in this place as Malum,but bonum eft k on eft urn, utile jucundum.Nov/ it is not good that man fhould be in afingle condition upon a thveeftrd confideration.i. In refpedt of fin, which would not elfebe prevented. Marriage is like water to quenchthe fparks of lull’s fire, 1 Cor. vii. 2. Never-thelefs to avoid fornication, let every one havehis own wife, &c. Man needed no fuch phy-fic when he was in perfeft health. Tempta¬tions may break nature’s beft fence, and layits paradife wafte; but a fingle life is a prifonof unruly defires, which is daily attempted tobe broken open.Some, indeed, force themfelves to a finglelife, merely to avoid the charges of a marriagedate ; they had rather fry in the greafe 6f theirown fenfuality, than extinguifn thofe flameswith an allowed remedy : It is better to marrythan to burn i to be lawfully coupled, than tohe luftfully fcorched.—It is bell feeding tildeflames with ordinate fuel.8 A \V E D D I N G-R ING,'‘2, It is not good in reipeft mankind,which then would not be prop^ted-—TheRoman hiftorian relating the --avifhing of theSabine women, excufe^ Jt cftus : Jva erit unius<etatis populus virorim •' Without them man¬kind would fall f-om the earth and perifn.—■Marriage turns mutability into the image of e-tcrnity : It /prings up new buds when the oldare withered : It is a greater honour for a manto be the father of one fon, than to be themafter of many fervants. Without a wife,children cannot be had lawfully; without agood wife, children cannot be had comforta¬bly.—Man and woman as the flock and thefcion, being grafted in marriage, as trees bear¬ing fruit to the world.Auguftine fays this pair is primutn par et(undamentum omnium, dec.—They ^re the frfllink of human Ibciety, to which all the reftare joined. Mankind had long ago decayed,and been like a taper fallen into the focket, ifthole breaches which are made by mortality,were not repaired by matrimony.3. It is not good, in regard of the church,which would then have been extirpated. Wherethere is no generation there can be no regen¬eration. Nature makes us creatures, beforegrace makes us Chriftians.If the loins of men had been lefs fruitful, thedeath of Chrift would have been lefs fuccefsfui.It was a witty quefticn that one put to himthat faid, Marriage fills the earth, but virgi¬nity fills the heavens : How can tbs heavens i efully if the earth he empty ?fit For the finger. 9Had Adam lived in xnnocency without ma¬trimony, there would have been no fervanfs ofGod in the church militant, nor no faints withGod in the church triumphant. But I willnot fink this vefiel by the over-burthen of it,nor prefs this truth to death, by laying toogreat a load upon its fiaoulders.There is one knot which l mufi: untie be¬fore I make a further progrefs, i Cor. vii. i.It is gcod for a man not to touch a woman.—-Do all the fcriptures proceed out of the famemouth, and do they not all fpeak the fametruth ? The God of unity will not indite dif-cord; and the God of verity cannot afiertfalfehood ; if gcod and evil be contraries, howcontrary then are thefe fcriptures ? Either Mo-fes miftakes G O D,' or Paul miftakes Mofe'sabout the point of marriage.—To which 1.(hall give a double anfwer.i. There is a public and private good. Inrefpefl of one man, it may be good not totouch a woman ; but in refpeft of all, fo It isnot good that man JhoiUd be alone.Mofes fpeaks of the flate of man created •,Paul of the ftate of man corrupted : Now thatwhich by inftitution was a mercy, by corrup¬tion may become a mifery ; as pure water istainted by running through a miry channel, oras the fun-beams receive a tin&ure by finningthrough a coloured giafs. There is no- printof evil in the world, but fin was the ftampthat made it. They that feek nothing butweal in its commiffion, will find nothing butWoe p the conclufion. Which leads me fromSSHMHKnimHIO A W E D DIN G-R IN G,the folitarinefs of the condition, Man alone,to the fuhablenefs of the provifion, I will makean help most for him. Jn which you have twoparts:i. The agent: I will make. 2. The ob¬ject: A kelp.1. The agent, I will make. We cannotbuild a houfe (Without tools; but the Trinityis at liberty ^ Die verbum tantum. To God’somnifcience there is nothing invifible; toClod’s omnipotence there is nothing impoffible.We work bv hands without; but He workswithout hands. He that madq man meet forhelp, makes a meet help for him.Marriages are confented above, but confum-mated belowr. Prov. xviii. 22. Though nTSnwants fupply, yet man cannot fupply his wants,James i. 17. Eroery good and perfeh gift comesfrom above, &c. A wife, though foe be nota perfect gift, yet foe is a good gift. Thefebeams are darted from the Sun of righteoufnefs.Haft thou a foft heart ? It is of God’s break¬ing : haft thou a fweet wife ? foe is of God’smaking.Let me draw up this expreflion with a dou¬ble application.1. WJyen thou layeft out for fuch a good onearth, look up to the God of heaven: let himmake thy choice for thee who made his choiceof thee. Ldok above you, before you lookabout you; nothing makes up the happinefsof a married condition, like the holinefs of amortified difpefition. Account not thofe themeft worthy that are the molt wealthy. ArtVFIT FOR THE FINGER. *ithou matched to the Lord; match in the Lord.How happy are fuch marriages, where Chriftis at the wedding* Let none but thofe'whohave found favour in Gdd’s eyes, fin& favourin yours.2. Give God the tribute of your gratulationfor your good companions. Take heed ofpaying your rent to a wrong landlord : whenyou tafte of the ftream, refiedf apon the ipringthat feeds it. Now thou haft four eyes for thyfpeculation, four hands for thy operation, fourfeet for thy ambulation, and four fhoulders forthy fuftentation. What the fin againft the Ho¬ly Ghoft is in point of divinity, that is un-thankfulnefs in point of morality; an offenceunpardonable. Pity it is but tlje moon fhouldbe ever in an ed’pfe, that will not acknowledge' her beams to be borrowed from the fun. Htthat praifes not the giver, prizes .not the gift *j and fo I pafs from the agent to the objedl, si| help.Sue muft be fo much, and no lefs : and faI much, and no-more. Our ribs were not or¬dained to be our rulers. They are not madeof the head, to claim fuperiorky •, but out ofthe fide, to be content with equality. Theydeiert the Author of nature who invert the or¬der of nature. The woman was made for the. man’s comfort, but the man was not made forwoman’s Command. Thofe fhoulders afpiretoo high, that content not themfelves with airoom below their head. It is betweerr a .manand his wife in the home, as it is between thefun and the mocn in the heavens, when then A WEDDINQ-RING,greater light goes down, the lefler gets up:when the one ends in fetting, the ether beginsin fhining. The wife may be a fovereign inherjudband’s abfence, but Hie muft be fub-jedc in her hufoand’s prefence. As PharaohEid to Jofeph, fo fhould the hufband fay tohis wife, Gen xli. 40. Then jhalt be over myboufe, and according to thy word, foall all my■people be ruled, only in the throne will T be great¬er than thou. The body of that houfeholb cannever make any good motion, whofe bones areout of place. The woman muft be athe man in thefe four things :1. T'o his piety. 2. To his fociety. 3.To his progeny. 4. To his profperity.To his piety, by the ferventnefs of her ex- |c'tation.—To his fociety, by the fragrantnefs |•tff her converfatioft.—To his progeny, by the 1fruitfulnefs of her education.—To his proipe-rity, by the faithfulnefs of her prefervation.1. To his piefy, by the ferventnefs of herexcitation, 1 Pet. ii. J.Hufband and wife fhould be as the twomilch kine, which were coupled together tocarry the ark of God; or as? the two cheru -1bims, that looked one upon another, and bothupon the mercy feat; or as the two tables ofdone, on each of which was engraven the lawsof God. In fome families married perfons arelike Jeremiah’s two bafkets of figs, the one*very good, the other verv evil ; or like fire*and water, whiJil the one is flaming in devo-fticn, the other is’freezing in corruption. Therejis a two-fold hindrance of hohnefs; id, 0.1*jhelp to Ithe right fide. 2dly, On the left. On theright fide, when the wife fhould run in God’s; way, the hufiband will not let her go; when; the fore-horfe in a team will not draw, he| wrongs all the reft: wjhen the general of anarmy forbids a march all the foldiers ftand ftiii.| Sometimes on the left; how did Solomon’s i-;! dolatrous wife draw away his heart fi^m heav¬en ? A finning wife was Satan’s nrft ladder, bywhich he fcaled the wails of paradife, and took; away the fort-royal of Adam’s heart from him.Thus file that fhould have been the help ofhis fiefti, was the hurt of his faith; his na-ture’s under-prcpper, became his grace’s un-j der-miner! and fne that fiiould be a crown on| the head, is a crofs on the fiioulders.'—Thewife is often to the hufband, as the ivy to the| oak, which draws away his fap from him.2. A help to his fociety, by the fragrant-nefs of her converfation. .,J - Man is an affectionate creaturenow thewoman’s behaviour fhould be fuch towards theman as to require his affe&ion, by increcfinghis delegation. That the new-born love maynot lie biafted as foon as it is blofibmed *, thatit may not be ruined before it be rooted. Aipoufe fnould carry herfelf fo to her hufband,. as not to difturb his love by her contention, norto deftroy his love by her alienation. Huf¬band and wife fnould be like two candles burn-ing together, which makes the houfe morehghtlbme i or like two fragrant flowers boundup in one nofegay, that augment its fweetisefs;or like two well-tuned mftruments, whichi4 A WEDDING-RING,founding together, make the more melodiousmufic. Hufband and wife, what are they butas two fprings meeting, and fo joining theirftreams that they may make but one current ?It is an unpleafiing fpedtacle to view a*y con¬tention in this conjundtion.3. To his progeny, by the fruitfulnefs ofher educadon *, that fo her children in the flelh,may be GodTs children in the fpirit. 1 Sam.i. 11. Hannah fhe vows, if the Lord will giveher a forr, to devote him to his fervice. Afpoufe fhould be more careful of her chil¬dren’s breeding, than (he (hould be fearful ofher children’s bearing. Take heed left thefeflowers grow in the devil’s garden. Thoughyou bring them out in corruption, yet do notbring them up to damnation. Thofe are not.mothers, but monfters, that, whilft they (houldbe teaching their children the way to heavenwith their lips, are leading them the way tohell with their lives. Good education is thebeftiivery you can give them wing: and itis the beft legacy you can leave them dying.Ydu let out your cares to make them great-,O lilt up your prayers to make them good;that before you die from them, you may feeChrift live in them. Whilft thefe twigs aregreen and tender, they (hould be bowed to¬wards God. Children and kryantS' are in afamily, as paftengers are in a boat? hufbandand wife, they are as a pair of oars, to rowthem to.their de(tred*haven. Let thefe fmalipieces of timber be hewed and fquared for thecele^lial building. By putting a feeptre orFIT FOR THE FINGER. 15rrace into their hands, you will fet a crown of»lory upon their heads.4. A help to his profperity, by her faith-ful prefervation, being not a wanderer abroad,>ut a worker at home. One of the ancients■peaks excellently; She mujt not be a field-wife^tike Dinah; nor a fireet-wife., like Tamar •, nor1 window-wife, like Jezebel.: Phildeas, when he drew a woman, paintedher fitting under a fnaii fhei!; that fhe mightimitate that little creature, that gees no furtherthan it can carry its houfe upon its head.How many women are there, that are not(labouring bees, but idle drones ; that take upa room in the hive, but bring no honey to it;that are moths to their hufoands’ eftates •,fpendrng when they fheuki be fparing i As theI man’s part is to provide induftrioufiy, fo the1 woman’s is to preserve difcreetly •> the one muftS not be careiefiv wanting, the other mufi: notnbe caufelefly wafting*, the man muft be feek-ling with diligence; the woman muft be faving'i with prudence. The cock and hen bo(th ferapei? together in the duft heap, to pick up fome-| thing for the little chickens. To wind up thisSen a ihort bottom.1. If the woman be a help to the man, thenlet nopthe man caft dirt upon the woman.Secundus being alked his opinion of a wo¬man, faid, Virinau fragium, domus. tempeftas,quietis impedmentam, &c. But furely he was amonfter, and not a man, fitter for a tomb tobury him, tha.. a womb to bear him.Some have ftyled them to be like clouds in1;i6 A WEDDING-RING,the fky. Like mote^ the fun. Like fnuin the candle. Like weeds in the garden.O HIt is not good to play the butcher with thainaked fex, that hath no arms but for embraces. A preacher fhould not be filent for thofcwho are fdencfid from preaching; becaufe the}are the weaker veflels, (hall they be broken alto pieces : 7'hou that fayelt women are evil, imay be thy expreffion flows from thy experience ; but I fhall never take that mariner formy pilot, that hath no better knowledge than |the fplitting of his own fhip. Wilt thou con-fdemn the frame of-all, for the fault of one ?as if it were true logic, becaufe fome are evil,therefore none are good. He hath ill eyes thatdifdains all objects, to blatt thy helper, is toblame thy Maker. In a word, we took ourrife from their bowels, and may take our reftin their bofoms.2. Is the woman to be a help, to the man!Then jet the man be a help to the woman.What makes t.’wfe debtors to be fuch ill pay-rnafters, but becaufe they look at what is owingto them, but not at what is owing by them.If thou wouldeft have thy wife’s reverence, lether have thy refpedc. To force a tear fromthis relation, is that which neither benefits theh.ufband’s authority to enjoin, nor the wife’sduty to perform. A wife muft not be lharplydriven, but fweetly drawn. Companion maybend her, but compuluon will break her. Huf-band and wife fhould adt towards each otherwith confent, not by cpnftrait.'.. There are, -I F IT FOR THE FIN GT; K ^our things wherein the hufband is a meet helpo the wife.i. In his proteblion of her from injuries.It is well obferved by one, that the rib ofwhich woman was made, was taken from un-:;ler a man’s a as the ufe of the arm is toilteep off blows' • i the body, fo the office of(the hufrand is to ward off blows from the wife.IT he wife is the hufbaad’s treafury, and theIhufband fhould be the wife’s armoury. Injdarknefs he fhould be her fun for dircdiion *, indanger he fhould be her fbield for protection.•I 2. In his providing for her neceffaries. The‘hufband muft communicate maintenance to thewife, as the head conveys influence to the mem¬bers ; he muft not be a drone, and fhe atdrudge, A man in a married cftate is like a!, chamberlain in an inn, there is knocking forhim in every room. Many perfons in this con-i clition, wafts that eftate in luxury, which fhouldI fupply their wife’s neceflity : They have nei¬ther the faith of a Chriftian, nor the love of ahufband; It is a fad fpe&acle to fee a virginfold with her own money unto flavery, whenfervices are better than marriages*, the one re-f ceives wages, whilft the other buys their fetters.3. In his covering of her infirmities. Who< would trample upon a jewel becaufe it is fallenin the dirt ? or throw away a heap of wheat foea little chaff: or defpife a golden wedge be-catife it retains fome drofs ? Thefe rofes havefome prickles. Now hufbands fhould fpreada mantle of charity over their wives’ infirmi¬ties. They are ill birds that defile their ownA W li b D I N G-R I N G,nefts. It is a great deal better yen fhould fafli;than feaft yourfeives upon their failings. So:hufbands are never well, longer than they aholding their fingers in fheir wife’s fores. Suare like crows, that fatten only upon carrioDo not peit out the candle’'becauie of the fnufIf the gold be good ai!ov< k grains. Hu:|bands and wives fiiould provoke one nnotlto love j and they fhould love one another no;withttanding of provocation. Take heedpoifoning thofe fprings from whence the ftreamof your pleafure flows.4. By his delighting in her fbciety. A witakes fan&uary not only in her hufband’s houfebut in his heart. The tree of love fhoulgrow up in the family, as the tree of life gre’up in the garden. They that chufe their lovefhould love their choice. They that marrywhere they affeft not, will affe6l where the5marry not. Two joined together without love,|are but tied together to make one another mi-rferable. And fo I pafs to the laft flage of thetext, si help-meet.A help •, there is her fuinefs: A meet help:there is her fitnefs.The angels were too much above him ; the]creatures were too much below him : he couldnot ftep up to the former, nor could he ftoopdown to the latter; the one was out of hisreach ; the other was out of his race; but thewoman is a parallel finedrawn equal with him.Meet fhe mutt be in three things.j. In the harmony of her difpofition. Huf-band and wife ttiould be like the image in aFIT FOR T(flooking-g'afs, that anfvers in ail properties tothe face that (lands before it: or like an echothat returneth the voice it receiveth. Manymarriages are like putting new wine into old• j bottles. An old man is not a meet help for a1 young woman : He that fets a grey head upon| green (boulders, hath one foot in the grave,and another in the cradle. Yet how manytime* do you fee the fpring of youth weddedto the winter of old age ? A young man isnot an help meet for an old woman i raw flefhI is but an ill plainer for rotten bones. Fie. that1 in his non-age marries a woman in her dotage,j his luft hath one wife in pofleffion, but his loveanother in reverhon.2. In the heraldry of her condition. Someof our European nations are fo ftridl in theirjun&ions, that it is againft their laws for thecommonality to couple with the gentry.It was well faid by one. If the wife he toomuch ahobe her hupAnd^ fhe either ruins him .byher vafl ex'pences; or reviles him with her hafe! reproaches: if fhe be too much beltw her hufbem'feither her former condition makes her too gener-, ous •, cr her prefen! mutation makes her too im-\ pericus. "Marriages are ftyled matches; yet smongftj thofe many that are married, how few are therethat are matched ! Hufbands and wives are likelocks and keys, that rather break than open,except the vvards be anfwerable.3. In the holinefs of their religion. If a-duitery may feparate a marriage contrafted, i-do’atry may hinder a marriage not perfeded.2D•X'WEDDING-RI^G,>—Cattle cf divers kinds were not to engende.*—2 Cor. vi. 14. Be not u^qualtj yoked. &cIt is dangerous taking her tor a wife, who vvilriot take God for a hufoand. It is not meetthat one fleth ilibuid be of two fpnits. Is therenever a tree thou likeft in the garden, but thatwhich bears forbidden fruit ?—There are but |two channels in which the remaining IV earns |fnall run. 1. To thofe men that want dyes, fthow to chufe them. 2. To thofe women who |have hufbands, how to ufe them.1. To thofe men that want wives, how tochufe them. Marriage is the tying of fuch aknot, that nothing but death can unloofe.Common reafbn fuggefts fo much, thatjkwethould be long a doing that which can but oncebe done. Where one defign hath been grav¬elled in the lands of delay, thoulands havebeen fplit on the rock of precipitance. Ralliadventures yield little gain. Opportunities arenot like tides, that when one is pail, anotherreturns ; but yet take heed of dying withoutyour wings : you may breed fuch agues in yourbones, that may fhake yon to your graves.I. Let me preferve you from a bad choice.2. Prefent you with a good one. To preferveyou from a- bacf choice, take that in threethings : 1. Chufe not for beauty. 2. Chufenot for dowry. 3. Chufe not for dignity. Hethat looks for beauty buys a pidture. He thatloves for dowry makes a purchafe. He thatleaps for dignity, matches with a multitude atonce. The firfi of thefe is too blind to be dl-rented. The fecond, too bafe to be accepted.FIT FOR THE FINGER, 2^,The tT 'rd too bold to be refpodted. 1. Chul^,.!iot by your eyes.—2. Chufe not by yci^^Vlands.—3. Chufe not by your ears. isS,I i. Chufe not by your eyes, lucking at the '^oeauty of thepeifbn. Not but this is lovely Nn a woman, but that this is not all for whicha woman fhouid be loved. He that had thefjhoice of many faces, flamps this charafter up-lan them all, Favour is deceitful, and beauty ispain. The fun is more bright in a clear Iky,than when the horizon is clouded but if aWoman’s flelh hath more of beauty, than herfpirit hath of Chriftianity, it is like poifon inifweet-meats, moft dangerous, Gen. vi. 2. The\fons of God faw the daughters of men, that theymere fair. One would have thought that theyfnould rather have looked for grace in theheart, than for beauty in the face. Take careof inning at the fairefi: figns; the fwan hath1 black flefh under white feathers.2. Chufe not by your hands, for the boun¬ty ot’ the portion.When Cato’s daughter was alked, why didifhe hot marry ? fhe thus replied. She couldnot find the man that loved het perfon abovei her portion. Men love curious pictures, but.they would have them fet in golden frames.[Some are fo degenerate, as to think any good: enough, who have but goods enough. Take; heed, for fometimes the bag and baggage go' together. The perfon fhouid be a figure, andthe portion a cypher, which added to her, ad¬vances the fum, but alone fignines nothing.1 When Themiftocles was to marry his daugh-me o32 A WEDDING-RING,Jj-ler, two fuitors courted her together,rtQjch, and a fool; the, other wife, but poo.t}4nd being demanded which of the tv» o he h;•f rather his daughter fhould have ? he anfwereMii'Uem vifum fine ptainiaf&cz. I had rathfee fjould have a mem without ’money> than mney without a man.3. Chufe not by your ears, for the digniof her parentage. A good old dock mnv nobidi a fmitkls branch. There are many chithen who, afe not the bleffings, but the brnifnes of their parents. They its nobly dctended, but ignobly minded. Such was Airelius Antonius, of whom it was faid, thatinjured his country of nothing, but being tlfather of fuch a child. There are many 1cin their defcents, that are high in their defertSucIvgs the cobler’s’fon, who grew to be a fmous captain; when a great perfon upbraidtthe meanuefs of his original, My nobility% Jak■he* begins with me, but" thy nobility ends wilthee. Piety is a greater honour than parentalShe is the bed gentlewoman that, is heir to n|own deferts, and not the degenerated ofispri|of another’s virtue. To prefent you v.khijgood'choice m three things;1. Chufe fuch a one as will be dubjc/5t |your dominion. Take heed of yoking youfdves with untamed heifers.-■2. Chufe fuch a one ns may fympathize wljyou in your adlidlion. Marriage is jud ate]fea-voyage; he that enters into this /hip, mi•look to meet with dorms and tempeds, 1vii. 26. They that marry Jhall have troubhFIT FOR THF FINGER. .2jthe fiejh. Flefh and trouble are married ioge- \ther, whether we marry or no; now a bittercup is too much to be drunk by one mouth,A heavy burthen is eafiiy carried by the affiit-ance of other ihoulders. Hufoand and wifeihould neither be proud flefh, nor dead fldh.1 You are fellow-members, therefore, fhouldliHave a fellow feeling. While one hands fafejon the fhore, tlte other fliould pity him that isto& on the fea.---Sympathy in fufFenngs is likea. dry houfe in a wet day. Ni- '3. Chufe inch a one as may be ferviceablej'o your falvation. A man may think he hathd jaint when he hath a devil; but take heed ofharlot that is falfe to thy bed ; and of a hy-ocrke, that is.talfe to thy God,edly. To thofe women who have hufbands,*ow to ule them. In two things.I. Carry yourfelves towards them with obedi-nce. Let their power command you, that theiraiie may commend you. Though you may hareyur hufband’s hearts, yet you muft not have theirea: , nSi you will Ids love, fo you (hould loveis w if.L. Till the hiifband leavcscommanding, theife muft nc\rer leave obeying. As his injunctionsuft be lawful, fo her fubjedtion mull be loyal,a. With faithfulnefs. In creation God made notae v/oman for many men, or many women forhe man. Every wife fhould be to her huflsfcnd, ase Was to Adam, a whole world of women : "antiery hufband fliould be to his wife, as Adam wasEve, a whole world of men. When a river is di-led into many channels, the main current ftarves.To conclude ; good fervants are a great bkfiing;cd children a greater biefling; but a good wife is: greateft bleffing; a*d fuch a help, let him feekr her, thatwant&one; let hitnfigh torher, that hathloft ore; let hi intake pleafure in .her that enjoys one.nefs will clofe upon the rnkecl and war;citing ghnftgjwhile its ioathfcme remains are configned tf> cl>h«.|vion and putrcfa&ion hi the prifon of the'grave;.,!with the profpeed of a wotfe doom hereafter.^ Ih£c|tlierp is a living image of true coodneft bev-jl1