Whiffling Daughter.TQ WHICH ARE ADOSD,P I I I L L I S A N D N A M € Y.The Humours of Rosemary Lane.S T. PATRICK.’ S G L O R Y.THE CONTENTED RURICOLIST.N O N E S O P R E T T Y.GLASGOW.PRINTED BY J. & M. ROI3ERTSON,.Sat.TM ARKF.r, iRoi.2 *!THE WR»TLIMG DAUGHTER.Q Mammy, mammy, I long to be a bride,To hare a lufty yfcyng mars to ly by my Gde; jit it well known, I arn a woman grown.-Aud ’tis a pity one fo*pretty as I (hould ly alone. ;() daughter I war» fifteen before that I was wed.And I was ne'er tired of my ve«t maidenhead.O mammy that may be, but 'tis not fo with me, 3I'm young and airy, almoft weary, ! can’t ly alone.Odasighter^aughter,I’ll pull your courage down,And with hard labour pull off your fack & gown,And fend you each day to the iidds a making hay,O daughter, loving daughter,then perhaps you may.I pray don’t fend me to the fields, for young menA re tempting, I perhaps may yield to the thingI would not do. nor dare not for to name, (mean.But tell me, loving mother, what can young menWhifile,daughter,Whittle,& you frail have a fheep,I cannot whittle, mother, nor neither can l lleep,My maidenhead, I (wear, it fills my heart with care, j* 1 is a burden, heavy burden, fn-ore than I can bear.W’hiftle,daughter,whittle, Ayou lhal! have a cow,I cannot whittle, mother, neither will t now,My maidenhead, I ( wear, it fills my heart with carejTis a burden, heavy burden, more than I can bear.Whittle, daughter, whittle, and you fralj have aTol de roi dary, don't you hear I can, (man,.Silence, hufley» what makes you whittle now ?’Ceufe mam, l lore a tmu better than fiv.r o or cow,C 2 3PHILLIS and N A, N C Y»DO WN by a grove I rov’d for aiy fancywith fweet msfic attending on me,There I faw Phillis and beautifal Nancy,as they fat reading of their deltiny ;Crying, ?.Iae ! what fhtll I !y under,for to find out a true hearted Twain,What forrow Sc troubles my poor heart lie* under,true love I find is a tormenting pain.Don’t you remember the promife you made me,that you’d be conflant and true unto me,You premis’d to marry and never deceive me,yet ye daily incrcafe my mifery ;Every night when I ought to be fleeping,tears trickle down me like (bowers of rain,My fond heart would break if’twasnot For weeping,true love I find is a tormenting pain.1 wilh little Cnpid would grant me one favour,for to let one of his own arrows fly,Into the boflbm of my loving creature,that £he may feel it as well as 15That (he may feel it in every feature,that (lie may feel it in every vein.Will marry me, follow me, and carry me over,fend me iafe home to my charmer againCome my brave boys, now let us be drinking*never ict forrow opprefs your minds,We’ll drink a good health to the lads that’s airy*another good health to the girl that’s kind}So here’s a good health to falfc hearted Nancy*like wife :o her ever true hearted fwain,WV11 ling 3c be jovial, & dance while we’re able,r t.me lor? 1 find's * tormenting pain.The HUMOURS of ROSEMARY LANE.^ E bloods and ye bucks that rove thro' the city,X Step iiUo Rag-fair, you’ll fee humours pretty,'J here’s Dolly and Fanny, and amorous Kitty,Each pieafant evening a bm’ring t’^eir ware •,There you’ll fee falefmen & double-hand clealets,M he doors are adorn’d with parrots and tay’ms,Bcer-houfes in plenty to cn'i jolly faitors,I mean the Well end, Sir, or Rofemary Lane.Some liillino^ate faggots their fish are a trying.With ftrong beer ar.d gin their goblets are p!yi>ig>.Every corner adorn’d wirb women a plying,Breeches for weavers and d'rfi’ers of hair;Coiifeftioners, chandlers, and pye-<hops in plenty,Supplying each perfon with bits that are dainty,Mountebank dect-'s to cure aii that are tainfy.That fmack of the farce's of Rofemary Lane.In naidft of the throng, hear old clothes a baulingiO'd'hat folks old (hoe folks bid wig folks, are calling*'Eh•' barkers the pail ng«rs pulling and hauling,Do you 'Tatu do! he*, hir ? yes. this is their game;M» 'dey pork, rotten bacon. >and faufages frying,otinkirig beefjVeal&mutton.greazy fellows a crying.The feenr almofl difles you as you pafs by them,So delicious the foed. S>r, in Roiemary Lane.Sc Tie picking of pockets, and ufurrrs cheating,Pawnbrokers snd Jews are a fi'ching and ffealing,Feme whores in their cellars their fares bewailing.By means of the fire they carry in their tail; tr; eFrom Wap ping, Denmark ftreet. t he Banks of Sal tpe-Each (Taflv doth repair -o fereen from the weather.Where kitove, thief, & whore do ai! cling together,Serenading the humours ol llofemaxy Lane.:Sr. PATRICK'S GLO R Y.MY countrymen clsar, come let us prepare,all over the friili nation,1 pn Patrick’s bitrh-ci. y our colours diftliy,; with great j >v and cieciaration.lie was a true blue, Tuch members but few,he would not be led by temptation }Tme actions he fquar’d, nt.e temipJes he rear’daii over this IiiLh nation.To magician*, all, he gave a doe-nf.;',hr preach'd to his country’s lalv .tion;All venomous things, with poifon and Itings,chas d out of this Irilh nation.The fnake and the toad, from their place of abode,came here a while tor to lire ion,I Rut Patrick’s true blue, that did them purfu.j,« chat’d them out of the Irifla nation.i Here's fuectfs to Rodger, thatcin hunt the-badgtr,and a'd the brave (Tores in the nation,Llkewife Dick Cox, that can hunt the fox,irom every cave in this nation.Ruccef-: to Kildare, that Sham rock (hi re peer,like Pattick for o.ir reflora :o:i,He run a hnart heat, to fave all our plate,all over the i'rilh nation.Oar Shamrocks we’ll wear,wc’il walk on the fiptare,to no man vre'U give provoc t idn, (K ng,Wt’li laugh and we’ll fing, here’s a health to tr.rrby LA trick’s fans and this nation., c 6 ]This health we 11 encore, fen thoufand and more,o{ Patrick's fons in the nation,Shamrocks we’ll wear, then of us take care,all over the Irifh nation.The CONTENTED RURICOLIST.THe fun being fet, and i ty work being done,one more or' my days being fpent,Then hone to my cott?,g^ I tript it along,and fet myfelf down with content.My cottage with woodbines are decked all round,and the jeflatrines green at nay door,"Where in it no trouble was there to be found,I have nothing but ground for my iloor.My bed made of Hocks. & my fheets are home fpun,no trouble ever enters my bread ;For at night being weary I lay myfelf down,fo contented I take me to red. iWith the lark in the morning l rife to my work,there’s nothing perplexes my mind ;If my lambs go aitray, fee how careful I look,fo fare as you feek you (hail find.No thoughts about honour ever enter’d my bread,or riches I ne'er can defire.For the chief of my dudy is earning my bread,to high title I ne’er can afpirc.With pipe; made of draw for amufunent I play,tie my lambs they Ikip over the plain,Being bled with content, fee my time Hides away,3rd at night to my cottage again,NONE SO PRETTY.r p HIS life is like a ooantry dance.The rviirld a fpacious hall room,Ir. which fo many take a prance,They fcarcely find for al^ room }Fiddlers and pipers in a row,See how the ranks arc ciofing,Each ftrives hi* neighbour’s faults to drew.While he’s his own expofmg.Pray, Ma’am, what dance have you call’d ?Matrimony, Ma'am. Ttne figure is extremely ea»fy. vou turn fingle, run away with your par ner,lead up 'he middle, back to back, part and changepartners.CHORUS.Thus bufied in the fond turmoil,They time by folly meafure,Turn all thefr pleafure into toil,And fancy foil a pleafure.Some in full dance with ardour bum,And fwim, and glide, and wander,While others waiting for their turn,Sneer, untie, and deal out {lander >And fc the Count mull run away !Why really I’m afraid fo ;His flirt has ruin’d" him at play,Poor man, I always faid foO no doubt about it, kept by a Phyfician beforefne came to the Count, duel with a young apothe¬cary ; fyrenges loaded wnh analeptic pills. ’Pisyour.turn to begin, Sir. Sir, I beg your pardon.Chor. Thus bufied in the fond turmoil, etc,[ 8 J/. vV>y they prance if, fmai! snti K> ',Brown, ginger, fsir, and grizzfe,O iMrt’am ! you difconce'rt my wig,’iVas you. Sir. touz’d my frizzle !Bi.ht hand and left, the figure mind,O J vbat are von about, Ma’am ?My dear Mils Giggle you are blind,My Lady Fuz you’re our, Ma’am !O, Ma’am ! you fhould confider that the dance ismy Lord M.yor’s feafl it begins with a fei to,atui finithes with a reel.CHORUS,Thus bufied in the fond turmoil,Ihtv tin\e by folly meafuic, etc.Tints dance fucceeding after dance.As if Old Nick had aot ’em,Tney fcandal vent, and flirt and prance,And fcot it to the bottom ;Thus having made for others fport,In regular rotation,.M ith Twinging intercfl they refortOn them the obligationFlu prizing! did you ever fee fuch a Light as thatwoman ! rubbed it all ofF one fide of her face. Brit lock at that man what a fearerow be is, withhis fttlfe calves turned before.——— Come, come,Ladies and Gentlemen, a new dance ; fhike upNonu so Pretty.c ih o r u s.Thus bufud in the fond turmoil,They time by folly rneafure,Turn all their pleafure into toil,And fancy toil a plcafurePrhttfJd by J. Sc M. Robertfon, Srdtmarkef, i8c2.