TRUECHRISTIANLOVE-To be fung with any of the common Tunesof the Plalms.Let the ’word of Chrift dwell in you richly, in allIVifdom, teaching and admonifhing one anotherin 'Pi'alms and Hymns, and (piritual Songs,f aging with Grace in your Hearts to thei Pet. i 8. Whom having not feen, ye Love-,in whom though now yt fee himnot, yet believ¬ing, ye rejoice with joy unfpeakabk, andjullof Glory.Written by the late Reverend and learned Mr.David Dickson, iome time Minifler ofthe Golpel at Irvine, afterwards Profeflbr ofDivinity in the Univeriity of Ed in b u r g h.iTo which is added, Hony Drops, or, ChryflalStreams flowing from Chrifl the Fountain andCo toss. iii. 16.Lord.Head thereof.AfipGLASGOW'Printed for, and fold by J A m es Me w r os *,Eook'ieller in Kilmarnock. MDCC^LY,T OT H E R E A D E R. ISince Chris t’s fair Truth craves no Mans ArtTake this rude Song in better Part.; w cy* nn »ir »■ ■!■ nV R U EI CHRISTIAN LOVE.T Have a Heart for LoveX I cannot choofe but have :A Love that can give full content,the leaft as I can crave.I want not Suiters, and they allhave Agents ftill with me."Who promife that which I do leek 5but fure I know they lie.Though Honour heght to lift me up,and Mammon me to ferve;Yet their Attendants skars me not,nor makes my Heart to fwerve.Pale Fear, dusk Envy, Care and Toil,with other ill-hew’d Wights.Wait for my Service if I need,their Mailers, O what fights.cPfal. 4. <5,7.1 John a.15, 16, 17.i Tm. 6. 7.The only thing like to prevail,was matcht unto my mind:When Fancy buskt my Party with Mcclef. 1, 2,Perfeifions of each Kind.But now 1 fee that Fancy isnot real as it feems :No earthly Love can give content:all Loves but Chrift are Dreams.Then why want I contenting Love,fince Chriitb love may be had:In whom is all that I do feek,or can be thought or laid?A 2What4 I'rue Cbrijlian Zovey■What other Loves do feem to have,is truly in him found :Cant. 5. jp. The Icattered Beauties of them all,in him art jointly bound.What they do lack and cannot have* Ibecaule they finit be :’Tis infinite in him, it Handsfor ever Hill: O he,He, he, is only worthy Love,and nothing elfe but he :Alas; that Vanity lo longhath fo bewitched me.Why heard I flatt’ring Idols Words ?why did I parly keep ?Why buffered I Affliffionto fing me fo alkep ?‘Pfal. 77. ii. How went I on lb foolilhly,and kept fo oft their trylf,As if falle Lovescould be found true,and had no mind of Chi ill ?No, not when Chrift was fuitingme,and they found oft untrue :I Hack Hill in the bonds, and couldmy felf no ways refcue.fPfal. 7 3- 23. Yet good and wile Lord Jefus ChriH,did Hill purfue my Love :He knew, though I refus’d my Heartwas his, he could me move.Cant. 8. 4. And now ’tis done, my Love is thine,Lord Jefus, come receiveThis whorifii Heart, and buffer notmy Soul hence to deceive.There /hall my Suitters a!l me lerve,bnt thou my Love /halt beThey'True Chrifiian Love '' KThey fhall be mine, not I theirs, elfethey fhall not follow me.Thus fhall I have Advantage twice,and bleft /hall be my Lot ;I’ll get my Lovers Goods and Love,above theirs, well I wot.A Love that will not me defpife,though I unworthy be.Though vile and loathfome, yet will he CdH. 15.1.not loath, but pity me. Ezek. 16.* # *Though fickle I, he will not change, 5. 6.his conftancy is known: Mai- 3* ^Of change no fhadow is with him, James 1.he loves for ay his own. 17.When I for want of Wit and Strength Job. 1 ;• 15*offend, and do confefs; ‘Pfdl. 10He will not chide, but pardon me 8,jmy Faults both more and lels.He will not charge upon me lay, 1 Cor. 19.more than I may well bear: s.6.But will my Burthens, as I need,lap port; I do not tear.No Wrath at others will caufe him Hub. 3. 25*unpleafant be to me :No flartderer will get his Ear,to hear of me a Lie.He will not milconftruff my Words, Ijd. 17* 45«he will not angry be :Nor fret without a Caufe, nor frown, Efal 103. y.wh- fitch a Fault falfly :Nor mark my ways fo narrowly, 1 Eet. 4. g.as nothing to pals by,6 7rus Cbrijlian Zove.He will not wafte his Heritage,nor will himielf difgrace:^fal. 89. 2 2. No Foes can hurt him, and their Spitehe turns upon their Face.John 13. His Love to other Saints lhall notwork prejudice to me,More then the Suns light unto all,doth hinder me to lee.No cauflefs jealoulie will vexat any Time his Mind:Jfh. ;o. 21. But if he lee my Heart go wrong,Rev. 2. 19. 1 know he is lb kind,As to admonilh and rebuke,and chaften if it need;End lb me lave from perilhing,too oft delerv’d indeed.Cren. 12. 3. If I be fad, he will be loathyet more to vex my Heart;Num. 24. 9. If any other will do lo,’gainfl: them he’ll take my Part.And thofe that grieve me,he will grieve,and curie them more and lelsThat curleth me lb will he tholethat blels me Purely bids.yoi>. 5. 29. If trouble fet about me round,iPfal. 61.1 j. he will not me forfake.Nor leave me comlbrtlefs alone,but pity on me take.Tef. 13. 17. And if he hide his Face a while,as wifdom oft requires,James 1. 1. He doth but exercile my Faith,and lharpen my Delires.And if he leem to ftay well long,that I become fo dead,A1True Chrijltan Love.(As I can neither fay nor fing,nor meditate, nor read :I Nor do ought elfe that might a Aw age,hearts pangs in fuch a Cafe :[But figh and droop, and hand my Head,long looking for his Grace.Utt’ring but broken Words or none,perplext with thoughts confus’d 5Suggeftions whifper all the while,as if I were refus’d."Yet Hill his gracious Hand doth me John 5. 14.fupport with fecret Strength,And makes me in thefe deeps not drawn Jja. 23. 2.but brings me through at length.Mean time he keeps my fcattred Words, cPfal. 56.8.and failing thole my Tears:In Books and Bottles, and takes courfeto rid me out ot fears.And failing both my Words and Tears,he marks each woful Groan:And failing thofe my Sighs, and allthe Parcels of my Moan.Yea when 1 fit aftonifhed, IP/tf/. 120. 2.my lifted Hands and LooksSpeaks all my mind to him, as ifit written were in Books.For he doth fearch the Heart and know*what is the Spirits mind:And as its fit gives anfwer toneed’s cry in every kind.And look how fharp thefe Tryals are,their Fruit is far more fweet:His Countenance compenfeth all, Ront. 8. 17.with one blink when we meet. <Pfal. ao. 5.For8 Yruc Chriftian Love.‘Pfal. 4. 7. For he doth make myHeart more glad,cP(al. 34. 21. then any Tongue can tell.cPfal. 7<J. Though Grief was great,yet joy is nowto verfe. more Iweet than Grid was fell.For judge ye wholbever feltwhat weight in Sin, what Grid,In mind opnreft what angui/h is,when Soul lees no Relief.What Torments in perplexity,what horror in Goo’s wrath ;What Hell is fear’d Eternity,at loofing of his Breath.And prefuppone a Soul were fureto owell at laft abovePnv. 15. 12. In Heaven with Chrift, yet know ye notcJPfal. 22. 42. what langor is in Love:‘Pfal, 11. & 3. WhatSicknels in deferred Hopes,24. and 7. 8. what Battle without Foe ?Wh .t trouble whenGod hides his faceand ieems us to forgo.Now judge again, when weights are liftGrief, angui/h, torments gone :For Wrath, Death, Hell, Eternity,of Fear now there is nWne_. “ .But in their Place the Heart lift up.Life, Light and Reft is comeFelt love, peace,vidory,hearts-health,andChrift’s Sp’rit all in Sum.Judge when our much provokedLord,himfelf /hows reconcil’d,If with the joy that then is felt,a Heart may not be fill’d.Now what can others Love do here,to Souls in iuch a Gale.But2. 20.'True Chrijlian Love. $But add more Grief and make the vail John 15.13.more thick to hide Chrift’s Face :Then other Loves all get you gone,or elie take Servants Place ;Too hard Conditions were to me,for you to quite his Face.Tot1 one Hour’s joy in him is more, Tfal. 64. 10,though mixt with dririe Tears,Then all earth\> honour, pleafure, wealth,can yield in many lears.Now let me reft and roule my Love, P/al. 116. 7swho firft me lov’d, andchus’d,‘And long call’d for my worthlels love, Galand would not be refus’d,i’ll leek his Love as he fought mine,and learn of him to Love,Since he invites I cannot mils,though whiles he lhall me prove.My love is Fathers eldeft Son,his Father, King of Kings :His heritage is Heaven and Earth,and in them both all things.His Wiidoip laid the World round,and parted Sea and Land,  Earth^body through,as veins he drew (Prov. 8. 22,the Waters with his Hand.He r.ade the Sun and Stars lb fwifr,yet not be fecn to move,Left Men on Earth had vexed beenwith Motions from above.His Strength upholds th s weighty Globe,and yet which is far more,He bare our Sins and heavy Wrath*deierv’d of us therefore.B Fgryofr/j 2. 18.5Da?/. 2. 47.‘Pfal. 2. 8,Heb. 1, 2.10 *2 Con. i. ao.Row. 5. 8.©oflf. 2. 51.4*57- 15*Mat, 11. 29.^7/^/. 3. 2.Rfal. 139. 8,t. io> 12-iioy. 4. 7.Mat. 28. 20.‘iV-i/. 2. 6.1 John 5.7.3. 22,*'£/</. 24.7f«g ChriHian Rove.For truth Gods promifes in himare all, yea, and Amen :For Love, his Death for us a Proof,fufficient hath been.For Juftice, he can do no wrong,for Mercy, there is none,Or /hall in Hell be, who have foughtfor Grace through him alone.Molt lofty and moft lowly Mind,moil: good and moft fevere.Moft lovely, and moft terrible,do all in him co-here.The meekeft Lamb to all his Friends,a Lion to his Foes.He gives his Peace to all that comes,wrath follows all that goes.No Foe can ftand before his Face,no Fugitive can flee,No lurking hole can hide from him,his Eyes do all things foe.Almighty all where prefont, thoughhis Body Heaven contain.Eternal God, though he as Man,Man’s Property retain.No robb’ry for his Majeftyhis Fathers match to be,The FathersGod-head & the Sp'rit’s,and his are one all three.Therefore when I do love the Son,1 love the Father too,And lo the Sp’rit, who dwels in him,to all I vvor/hip do.He is the Tree of Life to me.and io to ail his own.No.ItI, «'True Chriftian Love.No fiery Sword debars us now, John 5.all we for Friends are known. 14. 15.In him my Sabbath is begun, Get:, z.he teacheth me to ceafe, Ileb 4.Prom mine ownWorks.and lead me to Gen. 2.his reft, by fteps of Peace.IO.10.Flood branch’d in four to water allnew Plants ofParadife,Redeem’d, and holy, making them,and righteous, and wife.Though we have flain him, yet his bloodfpeaks better things for us,Then ^Z'd’s crying Curfe: but his Gen. I; 14.cryes, Lord, be gracious.Though Wrath fhould overflow the Landas with a new Deluge.Or Fire confume the Earth, yetChrift’s Gen. 6. 10.fafe Ark is our refuge.For now no Wrath unmixtwith Love,fhall of his own be felt,Becaufe God in his Sacrifice,the imell of Death hath melt. Gen. 8. :i.. And as the Bow in Cloud is pawn Gen. 9. jt.of not returning Flood : J/a. 54. 9.(So is that Off1 ring conftant Pledge,Eof our eternal good.:ue Jfaac offered up for me, Gen. 12.not minted at, but flain : 11. 12.oft JJaac-\\ke in this efcape,though flain, he rofe again./eet Jofeph by his Brethren fold,by our means made to ferve :iHe hath provided well our Food,left we through want fhould ftarve.- B 2FromIZHeb. i. 14.15** Cor. 10.Ueb. z. 3.2. 3.Jo/fctf. 11. 1 *1 Cor. 3. 6.$$c.Sleb. 7. i5.&c.JJeb. 10. 1^Heb. 7. 12,4. 27Heb. 9. 2.&c.True Ckriftian Love.FromJEgjj'/tf’s bonds and flavery bale**tis he that lets us free:’Tis he that doth prepare ourWay,through Floods and raging Sea.That Prophet rais’d like Mojes true,but fruitfulier than he :He Law andCurfe, andTypes of goodChrift, Grace and Truth gives me.My Duty Mofes Ihows, but Itrengthnone can he give to do,But Chrift by teaching gives me Life,and Will, and Aftion too.The Prieft that offered only once,and pacify’d for ay :And needs not ^Aaron-Y\ke. repeathis Sacrifice each Day.For Aarons Offering oft did provehis Offering unperfite :ButChrifts, bccauie it perfect makes,God ftill our Sins to quite.v In him all Laws and Types are fill’d,in him they have an end :No further ule of them, finceGoddid Chrift their Subftance fend.No Prieft by Office now on Earth,no proper Sacrifice,No Altar of Materials,no fixt Place of Service.The Tent where God dwels bodily,the Temple where the tryftIs fet for meeting of our God,as reconcil’d is Chrift.Fie Ark with ready Angels cled,he Mercy-feat of God,AccefsChriftian Love. *»l^cccfs and Oracles of Peace,giving to us abroad.8y him the withred Rod bears Fruit, LJum. 17. ywith him is Manna hid:TheLaw in him lyes clos’d from fpeech,1 except through Mercies Lid.©y him my Prayers are perfum’d,and fmell as Incenle fweet: Heb. 7.!By him my Cup isfurnifhed,and Table fill’d with Meat.IThe Prieft, the Altar and the Lamb,the Laver wafhing all :(And whatelfe any Rite did fign,he fills up great and Imall.IThe judge that rids his People from Co\. 9. i».all Adverfaries Hand.‘Our kindly King, by whom we maypofTefs that promis’d Land.To all his Subjefls affable*above all earthly Kings:: His bafeft Servants have his Earat all Times in all things.He is the Church’s deareft Love,and therefore muft be mine,Though 1 be bafe, yet will his Graceto be my Love incline. Jfa. 17. j,jOft hath he prov’d his Love to me,and will not now decline:Oft hath his Love much fweeter beento me than fineft Wine. Cant. 1. 2Oft hath the preaching of his Word,in ftraits and fears of Death,As fweeteft Kifles been to me. Cant. t. zconvey'd with lively breath.14-Cant. z. 5.Cant. a. 3.Cant) 4. a.Cant. 11. 3.Cant 3. 16.Hof. a. 3.True Chrijtian LoveOft hath his Aples hunger ftay’dmy Thrift his Flaggons quench t,Oft hath his Shadow me refrefh’d,as Herbs by Dew bedrencht.Oft in his Love withdrawing, hefrom Bed hath made me rife,And feek him long before I found,to make Me after wife,And when we met,his wrath was gonp,he call’d me Spoule betroth’d.And waffling me by Pardon, laid,my fair Love, though felf-loath’d.Now faireft Love, let my Soul fay,who made me clean but thou ?Who made a Child of Wrath like me,Hand reconciled now ?What makes me lovely but thy lovethat let the Price on me ?WhofeBeauty makes me fair but thinewhat have I not from thee;My Exaltation is come,to be a Child of God.By thy defcending to be Man,and fome whiles here abode.Luke 1. 35. Thy clean Conception and Birth,proves thee to be the Tree,Where cut from Adams filthy Stock,I imped clean muff be.Thy Manger makes my Bed more loft,thy Stable makes me Inns :Luke 1. 16. Thy Banifhment home brings memy Country-people wins. ( whereMat. I. 1 a. Thy Wifdom in thy Child-hood,hidesmy fooliih youthful Toyes 5Trwf Christian Lovt. tfPby felfdevoting unto Griefs, Xuke 2~ 47«is ground of all my Joys,iilvyempting, my Fulnelsis,thy Meannels me promotes ;irhy hiding of thy royal State,|J a Kingdom me allots.fhy Servant’s fhape, and Service done, ^bil. t. 7^kfrom Service fets me free,nd Bondage of proud Satan’s yoke,and Sin’s ftrong Tyrannic.Thy lurking thirty Years unknown; Luke ^ 23.for ever makes me fhine, Mat. 1 3- 16.With Glory far above the reachof fubtileft ingine.Thy Name inrol’d in Sinners Bookby Baptifrh, makes myNameTo be inrol’d among the Saints,' even thole of greatelf Fame,Thy offering Suretifliip for me,to God, at Jordan's Bank,iath fre’d me of my Sins, and Hell :well’s me, and God I thank.hear thee fay to God, Behold Jfa. 8. i3*me, and my Children all.I hear the Father anfwer thee,1 love you great and Imall.r. hear thee fay : take me for them,!a let me their Burthen bear 5hear the Father cry. Content,come, Children, come and hear. Ifai. 55.Pome hear the Covenant betweenme and my deareft Sondome give your Hearts Conlent thereto,ft and then your Bargan’s done.It*rpfal 4. s.Hat: 3. 17.fPjQil. 61.1.True Cbrijtian Love.I hear thee fay, Man’s due is DeathI’ll do thy Will, O Lord.My Soul and Body both for theirslet fliflfcr I accord.1 hear my Father’s Voice from Heavercry, lovely Son art thou :Theieail, and this (and that was IJare thine, I’m pleaied now.I hear him lay to all, and me,go hear my Son, and live.He drew I came, they welcom’d meand Lite, 1 feel, doll; give.Now take me with thee where thou wiltfor we mull never Ihed.In Faith my Soul is glew’d to thee,lead me as blind are led.Crofs Satan’s Teeth, if our Way ly,and crois each other lo :To Prielts, to bench, to Golgotha.Mnt. 27. 33. lead me, and I will go.But lead, and leave me not, or elleI cannot mils to fall ;If thou do hold mein thy Hand,I fear no Foe at all.Thy Combats makes me not amaz’d,for what could make me wo ;Thy Victory my conflict makesto be with vanquilht fo.Thy going to the Wildernelsbrings me to Saints City :Thy fighting all alone,makes mefight in thy Company.Thy being tempted fourty Days,all my Days makes me lure.ThyRom. S. 31.Mat. 8.Mat. 4. 1.Mat. 4. r.Tn/e Chrijlian Love.Thy Prefence, help and comfort fhall Hel>. 2. 18.with tempted me, endure| If by feme wrong Mean I be temptto fill my Nature’s luft; Jlfaf. 4- 5*OrGod to tempt, negle&ingMeans, & 4. 5*under pretence of truft,To help or hazard Life, fome way,which God will not allow :i I fee thee ftill before me, Lord,my Helper here be thou.I’Tis true my Flefh doth grieve to thinkwhat may thy Saints befall:What horrible Suggeflions,and Blafphemies with all:iW'hat Shapes and Apparitions, Mitt. 1. 4. 8.by Night fome, fome by Day :ij Yea power of this Flefh, yet thouto us’d my fear do ft ay.1 In falie Religion Worfhip craves,and bides both Hoof and Horn. Mtlf. 3. tf.And Angels-like in lome Mans Mouth,bides to ibme Image bow ;: And worldly Motives brings thy Truth,to cauie me difavow.i In this Cafe, T ord, give Light, that I Mat. io».may Satan bid avoid :For thoufands here for fault of Light,gold have been and deftroy’d.To free me from this ill I knownew trouble fhall me breed,1 And make the World me periecutewith fpite, in Word and DeedMoft dangerous of all me thinks,when Satan God to fcorn,c.Bui18 True ChriJHan Love.But lb I may thy Truth containand ftill adhere to thee,1 fear no Perfecution,nor wicked’s Injurie,More hated can 1 not, then thou,no more deipifed be:More charg’d with bitter Calumnies,nor after get the Lie.More fcorn’d and mocked in my Fate>more followed at the Back :X.uke 23. 11. Finger & Tongue ftiut forth withall,‘Pjal. 12. 17. murgons that Mockers make.r/ohn 1. 1. Lels welcome where 1 offer Love ;lefs thanked for good Deeds:Worfe intertain’d in my Country,worle furni/ht in my needs.More friendly handled by my friendsand thole of mine own Blood,Then thou was, I, yea not can bewho fuffer /hall for good.What can befall me which did notbefore befell to thee ;What more defir’ft for Righteoufnefs,can I expert to be?Mat. S, 20. What Lodging lefs, than ly thereoutjwhat harder Bed, than Rocks ?What lharper reft, than not to fleep,or to prevent the Cocks ?What leant or want,more then to haveno Peny in my Purfe,blat. 7. 27. Amongft luch People as me hate,and in their Heart me Curie ?What greater Hunger, then to fall,*nd when ’tis Time to ear,To15True Cbrijlinn Love.To fend and buy fome courfe pieee Bread,and get no other Meat ?Vv hat greater drought,then want a drink, yobu 4. 5.in Journey at Mid-dayAnd for a drink of Water call,and hear one fay me nay ?Whatfpoil of Goods, more than to ftripme naked to the Skin, yobfJ 4. 5.And in my fight divide my Cloathes,and then to fcorn begin ?What danger more than prefent Death, Mat. 2.by Stones lift up to call: yohn 8. 5 8.There fteep down rocks, here man ad- Luke 4. 2,0.to be thrown down, made fail. (jug’d,What banifht can I more be then, Mrt/'. 5T-for Lite chas’d here and there,Without a Hole to hide my Head,which even to Beafts is rare ?What Prilbn worfe than fall in Handsof perlecuting Priefts,Thirftninglike Wolves for Blood of Saintsto grace their god Ids Feafts $What Judgment more unjuft than find Mat. 26. 69.my Party fit as Judge,And ftill the lefs fault he can find,the more at me to grudge ? Jo/w 18. 22.And if I fpeak a modeft truth,*ro finite me on the Face: Jftt. 50. 6.And pull the Hair of Head and Cheek*,and all me to difgrace :What torments more then pricks thruft Mat. 27.25.one’s Head fourfcore at once: finYea all the Flefti with Icourging rent,and nothing fid* but Bones: -C 2iOTrue Ckriflian "Lore.And thofe lb racked in all joints,as Sinews none go free:Mrf/. 27. 25. But Legs and Arms afunder fpeld,hungup and nail’d on Tree:And what may feem to be untouch’dthy tender Bowels all,So burnt, as flockning welcom wasby Vinegar and Gall.All this thou 1'uffered, Lord, & morethan any can exprel's ;yiat. 27. 4. W hy fhould I then be feartd for fuchlike lufferings more or lels :Thou came to witnefsfor the Truth,and lo mull: all thine do :Thou came to lufftr for the Truthand lb mull all thine too ;Mat. 16. 24, Kone follow thee, except they becontent thy Crofs to bear :2 Tim. 11. 2. None crown’d fhall be, except theyfor Truth thy Livery wear, (willThe Truth islimite to thy W’ord,thine and none others faw :John’). 59. ThyScr’ptures meaning thou will havemy Rule, and thy full Law,O that I were inclin’d to dowhat Duties there are nam’d:1 cPet. 4. 15. Then when I fuffer fhould for Truth,I could not be afham’d.Mat. 15. 19. And fuffer muft we, elfe do wrong,when Men from Age to Age,To chop and change thineOrdinances,run headlong in a rage :119. And by their own Traditions,jitf. do make thy Precepts void:Ur-Trwe Chrifiian Love. 21Urging their own will more then thinelo laid thy Lawdelloy’d.But thou. Lord over all declares Mat. 15. 9fuch Worfhip to he vain:1 And ere we yield, thy iealoufie.i wills rather we be flain.f Yea, we do but a necdleis work,and weaken little Ones,!Be choofe our urgers fhould us fink Mat. x8. i-'T.in deep Seas with Mill-ltones.Then ftrengthen,Lord,my faith in thee cPJal. >6. 4that Flelh I do not fear ;But fear may only thine offence,whofe Love he bought fo dear.And fince thou haft me bought fo dearwhy may I not be fure,IThat love which made thee pamyepicry John 15. 1.fhall ftedfaftly endure?If I fhould lean to my free will,or ftrength, I could not ftand 5Oft had I perifh’d, if my Lifehad ly’n in my own Hand.;11 wonder not at luch as leanto their Works, Will, or Strength,Spit others for, and make themftelfapoftafie at length.?or fuch do not deny themfelves,and lb not follow thee:chas’d am to thee for Refuge,band lo preierv’d muft be.bas’d Souls are lenlible of Sin.and lenfibleof Wrath:And flee from both to thee for Life, Mat. 19. it.| and in thee draw thsir Breath. Heb. 6. \ 8.I How2ZTrue Chrijlian Live.How then can luch not perferere,John 6. 37and fo be iav’d at length,Whom thou doft empty of their owniand fills with thy freih Strength. '!Thefe are the Souls that come to thceiwhom thou wilt notcaft out:ThefeSouls are drawn & driven to thecjwhom thou muft fave no doubt. )I7, «. Thefe are thy Sheep for whom thou.   r , j; l/i J- . r etnd 6. 39.tnd 20, 28. for whofeLife thou didft die : (praysWhom Liars ihall not long deceive,whom none can pull from thee.Thefe did thy Father give to thee,with hisexpreis command:Son lee thou lofenot one of thole.I’ll crave them at thy Hand.Keep them, and make them perlevere .and lead them all the Way,Through Life and Death, aud raiftto Glory at that Day. (them upThou doll accept this charge & pawn:thy Honour, charge to keep:Our faithful Shepherd well 1 know|nor Humber will, nor fleep.Ibid.11.1.4-Hob. 9*Kom. 8. 9.tir.d 8. 17*Tit. 1. 1.Rom. 8. 9,Thefe fin & law chas’d Souls, thoij:true IJaacs all to be: (countChildren ot promile Ityling them,and Heirs annext with thee.Thefe are Got>’s Ele£t whom he hatlf/'.predellinate of old:And in his counlel hath decreedto lave as he hath told.Whom to allure of endlefs Life,by his unchang’d Decree,iTrue Chrtjtian Love.His Truth and Oath he laid in pawn. H&b. 6. 18.in which he cannot Lie. and 5. i a.!And i'wore by his eternal felf,tor greater there was none,:ij That ot his Ele£l Company,there fhould not pen Hi one.And tho* thefe Souls like Ship on Seamay fearfully be toft:And whiles may feem clofe overwhelm’dyet none fuch ihall be loft. Jja. 54. II*Their Anchor lies within the Vail.no Wind can make it drive: Heb. 6. 19.lit lyes where thou art landed, Lord,and where we fhall arrive.• ijNow who kith that thy Ele£l Ones Rom. 1. 28*for all this perifhmay,i!And that thy Saints of purpole call’d,from thee may fall awayffllArAnd loofes us from leaning onthe Strength of thy Right-hand.They draw from building on the Rock, Mat. 7. 24*and bids us build on Sand.. They fay Refer and Judas arealike belov’d of thee ;Mat. iC. ij*And that they both for Gifts receiv’d,alike beholden be.As Judas for his perifhingmay wyte the love of Pelf ;So Refer his Free-will for Lifemay praife and thank himfelf.They fay thou knowft not who are thineof none they make the lure? 1 Tim.They lay the Lord’s Foundation 10*doth not ay firm endure.They• $ True Ch'iJHan Love.They fay, thou choofes fbme to Day,and carts them off the Morn :Heb. 6. i. <5. They make thee like vain Man to be,17. 18. and do thy counfel Icorn.John 17. 9- They make the pray for thine Eleft,Rom. 7.54- an(1 set thy ^'quoft :Heb. 7. 2.5. Yta tho’ thou for them live for ay,Rom. 8. 16.Heh 6. 18.to interceed as PriedGod’s Elect to whom he gives rightto be his Sons and Heirs,7obfJ 16.28, They make them want fure right tothe Heritage for theirs. (have,The Saints till Death feduc’d may beand Sheep pull’d from thine Hand,Whom God thee charg’d to keep and jto fay they do not rtand. (faid fThy Word,thy0ath, thyCovenant,they make no certainty :Faiths anchor they make drive, theyin ftibftancc, blafphemy flpeakThey make the Merchant nothingand verv (hort of thought, (wile.Who pay’d the pi ice & was not fureto have what thou had bought,Yea lo unwife, as for thy Sheepthine own Life not to Ipare:Whom thou may lofe, though lodearfuch foolifh blocksarerare.(boughtO wicked thought be far from me,I know thy Love doth laft :And whom of purpofe thou doftcall,thy Grace doth hold them fart.W ho thou doft love,for them thou dy’dfor whom thou dy’d they live.ThyJohn ic.11.f;and 13.Rom. 8. 10and 5. S.True Chrijlian Love.Thy Love, thy ranfoming, and Heaven,1]all jointly thou doft give,And whofoever hates his Sin I ]ohn 4*1and lets his Love on thee,Way be allur’d thou lov’dft him llrft,! and for his Life didfl: die.Now, Lord, thou knowft I hate my Sin,and feektohave it (lain jThou that knovvcftall, knowft 1 thee ^okftand feels it not in vain. (loveThen Lord, my Love thou wilt allowthat 1 apply thy Death:And by that Means perfwaded reft,to be exeem’d from Wrath..) i. And well 1 wot the Ranlom isfufficient enough| Me to redeem from Hell, and impme in thee as thy bough.I For me thou emptied thy felf,and flood in Father’s Law :Gal i. to*‘pfal. ii 6*x7*JvdW* 4* 5*fi|'| For me thou emptied thy lelf,and ftood in Father’s aw.(Phil 2. 7*For me thou took on thee the Curfe, Gal. 3" 24*and felt thy Father’s Wrath.*►For me oft plunged was thy Soul Mat. 2j>.and heavy to the Death.iFor which I finfully did laugh,thou mourn’d and wept full lore:;For pleafure taken in my Sin,through Grief oft didft thou roar.jFor mine ill words thou filenc’d was,.,1 and knew not whai to fay :"or mine ill deeds thou. Lord, was bound Mark ay.condemn’d and led away.D Thy2*Mat. 26.2 8• o#^True Chrijlian Love.Thy Ditty were each one my wrongsagainft both God and Man :Thy lentence was my due delerttor Sins whereto I ran.Thele la/hes laid upon thy Skin,thofeftripes and all thy WoyndsJohn 12. ay. Werefor my Souls Wounds made withO Love, which thou abounds. (Sin;O thus, my Love to tee thee lad:O thus to lee thee weep:O thus to hear thee groan and pant,and cry with fighs cut deep,O Agony ; O fearful fweat:O Tears ; O bloody drops :Luke 28. 24. How mingled down from cheekstofeet ieach chafing other hops.To fee my Love, lor Love of meon bloody Shoulders bearThat Crols, that Curie, that growingand trembling thus for fear, (wrath,To fee Almighty God fo weak,Lifes-fountain thus to die:With lhame and Paino’ercharg’d, tilwondred, and all for me. (Heave*)Woes me for all Sins : woes mefor Roots of Sin fo llrong :Which have fo long Time grown it:and like to Hick lo long (mej •Oh^elpjmy Love,to have them Uainfoh, here revenge thy Death.Oh on this ill avenge me too,which wrong’d us both lo hathWell’s me, I wot thou wilt anon,Mat. *7*inA 45*flow. 7* 4-tqjkgrant this, and e^ch requell :AnontTrut Chrijlian Love*Anone our Joy perfeft fhall be,anone our Marriage-feaft:For as thou dy’d for me, for me John i 2 3.{6 allb didft thou rife : Rem. 5. 25,And reigns as God, and lhall me fetch, 1 'IkejJ. 4.lb makes thy Word me wife.Fond Lovers, tell me now if you Cant. 5.10,have any Love like this $ and j.- \6.Come take a fhare with me, my Lovewholly fpiritual is.Come, change your Loves, and Loveor elfe you perifh fhall: (with me.Go charge your Loves to do the fameor perifh fhall you all.Godscurfe on him thatlovetb notmy Love Lord J e s xi s Ch n 1 s t :Or loves not them that do love him,this curfe with Death keeps tryft.Behold, this is my love, yet ithe could like your Love die,All theft Excellencies of hisfhould work my Miferie.Or yet if I by Death could be,depriv’d of this my Love :All that is faid, or can ye more,were nought to my Behove.But now my Love fhall never diehis Days fhall never end :His Life fhall eternize his Love,his Life to Love doth tend.2 Cor. i t.Epk. 2 2.Jltfs 2. 24.4-Rn\ 2.2 Cor. 5. 7.Rev. 1, 1?Ueb. 1. 1 vAnd I by Death fhall have no lofsmy Love fhall then be moreBoth mine to him, and his to me,blefftd be God therefore :D 214*True Chrijlian Love.Hea, and becaufe I cannot live,and bruick his Love beneath.My Chariot to eternal Life,Death he appointed hath.* Kings i. II. Therefore tillDeathhisLove /hall bethe beft part of my Life :In him I’ll ftrive, ’gainft ba/er loves,and Death will end the Strife.Only, my Lord, flill pity me,and tarry not too long :Kev. il. 20. My fp’rit & fle/h cry, Come, LordDeath /hall renew mySong. (comeH O N E Y-D R o P 5,O RCHRISTAL STREAMS,Jer. 24- 7..,-33. 38,u. 7.OF Goo’* great goednefs nowI’ll fing,I will his Mercy praifeFor to extoll Jehovah Kinga quiv’ring Voice I’ll rai/e.I’ll be thy God, thou fayft, O Lord,This promis’d is to me :What higheft Heaven can affordI will vouchfafe on thee.For this poor Ear'h thou needs notThou ihalt inherit all; (careWithHoney 'Drops,or Chrifial Streams*’ith Chrifi my Son thou fhalt be Rom.in Glor celeftial. fHeir,) paulemy Soul and be amaz’d, at this tranlcendent Grace;ind for thy vilenefs be abas’d,! be fure to make thy Peace.>h what am I but finful Duft,and fhall I have fuch ftoref Riches, that ihall never ruftin that eternal Glore ?’t not enough, I’m not in Hell,tormented in that Fire ?Iir oft did I thy Voice repell,provoking thee to Ire.nd /hall not only thou relieve^ 1 me from th’ infernal Lake,, Hit alfo promileft to givetE' (t!Hfiigood Things tor Mercies fake,d /hall I have not only Crumbstj which from thy Table fall :lit more than all the riche/t Sumsi of Gold and Silver all.ind /hall it not fuffice to giveM what Creatures can afford ?at thou wilt have me for to live,even with thy felf, O Lo r » !11 God then be my Portion ? 'Pjal.is Wifdom to direff?s goodnefs for Compaffion,’ is Power to proteft.s Holinefs to fanftify ?His alldufficient ftore,to provide with rich Supply ?»lcft be my God therefore.*917.5- 57«Shall3oRowy 8, 28.Hof. 2. 18,19HcncyDropSy or Chriflal StreamsShall his high Habitation,even be my Dwelling-place?And /hall his Creatures everyone .make way for my lolace.'?‘JPfal. 34. 7. Shall his brave Angels me lurround,and guard me from all ill ?O this great Mercy hath no bound ?/ing praiies then 1 will.O then, my Soul let all thy Strength)and Faculties each one,Be confecrate to God at lengthfor his Salvation.TfaL10‘Vfal.— i45Tfal.Thy Time and Talent then beftow,his Name to Glorifie 5Who did to thee fuch Mercy fhow,Praile Him moft chearfulie.103.11. But as his Mercie’s great and free,fo doth it /till endure,Molt firm and fure r’eternity,none /hall their Soul injure.8.U:Jfa. 54* 10.‘tfaly 46. 2.Jfat. 49. 15. A WToman may forgetful beof Infants to her born;But though /lie would, yet will nome leave to be forlorn. fGo<The Mountains may removed be: |' the Day and Night may change,1: *The Hills be caft into the Sea : jthough Heaven andEarth do rang;!1 <Yet fure will he moft tenderly,his precious Saints embrace.l8. In fpight of Hell, they /hall prevail „1and fee his glorious Face,10. I’m graven upon his Palms, therefoifI’ll not forgotten be 3ThousJf/Tt. itf. i!Jfa. 49.Honey Drops, or Ckriftal Streams. 31Though I were even at Deaths dark 5Py^/. 23. 4.It ihall not terrifie. (vale,1His Wrath may for a Moment laft, J/a. 54. 7, 8.to chaften me for Sin ,iYea everlafting Kindnels, I,: and Favour hope to find.!Then I’ll begin to banifh Sin,contemning worldly toyes:1 With wings I’ll fly and loar on high,feeking for heavenly Joyes.j! V- ■. ■Sight through a Glafst andFace to Face.I 1 T Love the Windows of thy Grace1 Through which my Lord is lecn,II And long to meet my Saviour’s Face,Without a Glafs between.i 2 Oh, that the happy Hour were come,To change mv Faith to Sight!I /hall behold my Lord at HomeIn a diviner Light.3 Halle, my beloved, aud removethele interpofing Days;Then Ihall my Paihons all be Love,and all my Pow’rs be Praife.vFINIS.BOOKS to be fold by James Me-wrofs Boolfeller in Kilmarnock.BIBLES of leveral Sorts plain or gildedLarge Quarto BiblesBine Bibles with Canne's NotesNew Teftaments and Plalm-BooksGuthrie's Treatile, with his LifeConfeffionsot Faith, with Scriptures at largeSofion's Four-fold StateMarrow of Modern Divinity, with 3q/?o«’s NotesjBofton on the CovenantMcirfoel on San&if cation |Sojlon's Crook of the LotCrawford's dying ThoughtsfDrilingcourt on DeathCrawford's Zion’s TravellerMris. Rows devout Exercife of Heart1’irmin's real ChriftianWiUifon's'IhoXm of GileadSki el's Hynd let loofe‘Brown on PrayerJVillifon's afflfled Man’s Companionjimbrofs. looking unto JefusHenry on the SacramentWilli/en on the SacramentJli Hi fan's facramemal Catechifm‘Dickfan's Truth’s Vi&ory over ErrorThe fulfilling of the ScripturesRutherford's LettersGouge's Diregions for walking with GodHavel's Saint indeedJl'art's Hymns and Pfalms nTeat and Braidie's PfalmsBrook's Aples of GoldHavel's Token for MournersKin cent's Touch-ftoneDivine Breathings of a pious SSoulWith a great Variety of other Books, both curiouand valuable, all at sarii ^ W