The FamousHISTORY, *» - Of the LearnedFRIAR BACON.K i "" /G LV I N OA particular account of his Birth, Parentage,with the many wonderful things he did,| in his life-time, to the amazement ©f ailthe world.y <The FamousHISTORYOF THE LEARNEDFRIAR BACON.CHAP. I.Friar Bacon’s birth and parentage, and bywhat means he came to be io,great a fchoiar.How the King fent for him from Oxford,and in what wonderful manner he pleaiedthe King’s five fenfes : Alfo the comicalpranhs he played with a courtier lent tofitch him. *r jpHE famous friar Bacon vvhofe name has1. fpread through the world, was born in1, Lancalhire ; his father’s name was Ralphj. Bacon, and his name Roger. From his ir*|. fancy he was obferved to have a profoundpregnant witas he grew up, a great reader| of books, and defirous of learning, whichto admiration he took fo fall, that his fchool-, mailer could teach him no further j and In-( 4 )ing about to fend him home with commenda¬tions to his father, he fearing the word,humbly befought him to pievail if poCible,with his father, that he might be lent to theUniverfity, where he had a defire to go learnthe liberal fciences.His fchool mader denied him not his re-qucft, but went home with him, and, takingthe old man afide told him he had learnedhis fon as far as he \vas able, that he took itin extremely veil, and was willing to im¬prove it at the Univerfity ; and that he wasverily perfuaded, by the promptnefs he per¬ceived in him, if he would be at a little charge'with him there, he would be fo great a pro¬ficient as would advance him to an eminentftation.The oM man heard this with fome indig¬nation, but concealed his anger till the fchool-mader was gone ; and then taking his fon to [talk, faid. How now, firrah ! have not Ibeen at cod enough already, but are you itch¬ing to put me to more ? Methinks I havegiven you fuch learning as to enable you, intime, to be a condable, or church wardenof the parifli, and far out-do thofe in the of¬fice that can neither read nor w'rite; let thatfuffice : As for the red of your bufinefs forthe future, it is to learn horle language, andwhittle well, that you may be dextrous atdriving the plough and cart, and managing( S )Ac flieep and oxen ; for firrah ! centifluedne, have I any body elfe to leave my*-farm taj out you, and yet you take upon you, for-ootn, to be a fcholard, and confequently &gentleman ; for they all profefs ihemfelvesHo, though never fo beggarly, living lazily.I ami eating up the fat of other men’s labours,^ marry gaup ! Goodman Twofhoes, your| great-grandfather, your grandfather, and Lj have thought it no fcorn to dig and delve ;and pray what better are you- than us ? HereI In rah, take this whip, and go with me to;| Plough, or I’il fo lace your fine fcho! rd.hip,1 t!lat: y°u had better this had never been men-jpned to me.Young Bacon was much dhpleafed, an(1y grioved, but durll not reply, know¬ing his father to be a very hafty, choleric •,;oId man ; however, this fort of living ft(l ime agreed with his fprightly genius, that!?U 3 inort lime he gate him the flip ; and go-img to a Monaftry, making his delires knowngto the luperior, he kindly entertained hina|l3n. nlad,e him a brother of the Auguftina’nars. There he profited io much, that inVCT ycars he vvas 10 Oxford, to fludyit their charge; where he fooa grew fuch a-proficient, that his fame fo#n fpread, not on-y m the Univerfity, but alfo over all Eng-i'ind and came to the ears of Kin* Edwardine third, who then reigned; And betaking( 6 )a progrdTs with his queen and n&bles, wasdefir'us to fee him, and have an experimentof his art ; fo that being at a nobleman’shcuf, . within four miles of the city of Ox¬ford he fent a gentleman of his bed-chamberto eefire him to come to him. The knightdelayed not the melfage ; and finding himat his ftudy. did his errand. The Friar toldhim he would be with his majefty, and b;dhan make haite or he finould be there beforehim. i.\t this he fmiled, being well mounted,faying, fcholars and travellers might lye byauthority. Well, faid Friar Bacon, to con¬vince you, I will not only be there beforeyou, ride as fall as you can, but I will therefhew you the cook-maid you lay with iaft,though (lie is now bufy dreffing the dinnerat Sir William Belton’s, an hundred milesdiflance from this place. Well, faid thegentleman of the bed-chambar, I doubt notbut one will be as true as t’other ; fo mounting rode laughing away, and thinking to hiat the king’s quarters in a (hort ipace, h.fpurred his horfe valiantly ; but fuddeniymift arofe, that he knew not which way tgo ; and miffing the way , he turned dowa bye-lane, and rode over hedge and ditch iibackwards and forwards, till the charm wi v«Eifit>lved.V. - - . { 1 )When the Fri^r esme into the king’s| fence, he did him obeifance, and was kindlyi welcomed by him. 1 hen faid the king,i worthy Bacon, having heard much of your' fame, the caufe of my fending for you,. was to be a fpe&ator of fome fine- curiofitie*in your art. The Friar excufed at fir ft ; but.the king preifiiig it, promifed on his royalI word no harm fhould come to him, heibid all keep hlence, and waving his ma-;gic ward, there prefently, to their greatamazement, enfued the moft melodious mu-Tie they had ever heard, which continuedvery ravifhing for near hall an hour. Thenwaving his wand, another kind of muficwas heard, and prefen ly dancers in anticjinapes at a malquerade, entered the room ^land -having danced incomparably well, theyivanifhed. Waving his wand the third time,toflder mufic was heard ; and whilft thatip-i ypd, a table was placed by an invifiblehand, richly fpread with all the dainties th^t-ould be thought of : Then he defired theIking and queen to draw their feats near,ini partake of the repaft he had preparedkor their highneffes ; which after they hadpone, ail vanifhed. Ke waved the fourthinte, and thereupon the place was .perfumedwith ail the fweets of Arabia, or that the•vntle world could produce. Then wavinghe fifth time, there came in Ruffians,51( 8 ^Perri?,ns and Polanders, drei^ed ixt the fineftfcft tur, filk . and downs of rare fowls, thatar. to be found in the univerfe, which hebivi them feci ; and then the ftrangcrs,having danced after their own countryfafhion, \anifhed.In this fort Friar Bacon pleafed their fivefeifes, to their admiration, and high fatisfac-tion ; fff that the king offered him money,but he refufed it, faying, he could not takeit : Jr!QW;ever the king preffed on him ajewel of great value, commanding him tou'ear it as a mark of his favour. Whilffthis was doing, the gentlemen of the bed¬chamber came in puffing and blowing, allbemired and dirty, and his face and handsfcratched w ith the bufhes and briars. Theking, at this fight, demanded why he ftaidid long ? and how he came in that condi¬tion ? O plague, faid he, take Friar Bacon,!and all his devils ! they have led me a finedance, to the endangering of my reck.—iBut is the dog here ! I’ll be revenged onfhim ! Then he laid his hand on his fword|but Bacon waving his wand, charmed it inhis fcabbard, (To he could not draw it cut)faying, I fear not your anger ; ’tis heft foryou to be quiet, leff a werfe thing befal you :Then he told the king how he ga-e him thelye, when he told him he would be therebefore him.( 9 )Whilfl he was thus fpeaklng, in came thecook-maid, brought by a fpirit at the win¬dow, with a i'pit and a roailed Ihoulder ofmudon cn it, being thus furprized as fhe wastaking it from the fire ; and vviihfully (taringabout her, and efpying the gentieman, (hecried. O my fweet knight, are you here ?Pray, fir, remember you promifed to providelinen and other neceffaries for me ; our (tolenpleafures have (welled, and I’ve two monthsto reckon ; and^hereupon (he ran towardshim, to embrace him ; but he turning afide,! (he was c irried out at another window tojhu* matter’s houfe again.|. This was the caule of both amazementlaud laughter, tho’ -the gentleman was mflehlafiiamgd and confounded to be thus expofed,(till muttering revenge ; but Friar Bacon: told him, his belt way was to put up all,jlfince he had verified all his promifes, andiibid him have a care how he gave a fcholarjlthe lye again.The king and queen well pleafed with the•entertainment, highly commending his art,;:an 1 promifing him their favour and pro-iteftion, took their leave of the Friar, re¬turning to London, and he to his itudy atBrazen LhVie College. ^Ifn' f' —T *>ijf C to )C II A P. II.How Frip.r Bacon put a comical trick upon hismap Miles, who, pretending Abftinence ona faft day, concealed victuals in his pocketto eat in a corner.fTRIAR BACON kept a man to wait onp him, who, though but a fimpie iellovv,:yet a merry droll, and iuti of w,»; %cries ;hie name was Miles ; and though his mafterand thofe of the order often faffed on fetdays. Mi'es loved his guts toe;- well to pinchthem ; and tho’ outwardly he feemed te- fallfor compliance, he'adways kept a private re*ferve to eat in a corner, which Bacon knewky art. and refolvcd to put a trick upon him.■ Ir fo happened on Good Friday in Lent, ay \ftfi6t faR was held, and Miles feemed ver}devout; for when his mailer bid him, how¬ever, take a ! it of bread and a ftp of Wineearly in the morning to keep him from latnltng, he refufed it, faying, he was a greyfinner, and there ore ought to do more thatthis for his mortification, and to.' gain abfeI'ition, making a great many pretenbts oLnCtity, and how well he was inclined tkeep tF.e holy fall. ‘Its well, laid tne Trialif I catch you not trioping ; hereupon Milewent to his ceil, pretending to pray, but h\( *1 )deed to eat a fine pudding he had concealed,which he had no iboner put into his mouthat one end, byt it (luck there ; he could^neither eat it, nor get it out. The ufeof hishands failed, and he was taken with a Oliver-ing all over, fo that thinking he ihouM havedied prefently, he cried pitioufly out for help.Whereupon Friar Bacon, calling the fcholarsjtogether, went in to ibe what was the mat¬ter ; and perceiving him in that pbght, faid,jfmiling, Now I fee what a penitent fervant.1 have, who was fo*. confcientious he would';|not touch a bit ©f bread, but would willing-iy have devoured two pounds bt pudding tojhave broke his fail. He pitioully entreated|ui*n to ditfolvfe the charm, ana deliver him,Slhnd he would never do fo again. Nay,•ft:- Friar* you ihr.il do halo { dd.diking hold oi tde end of tae pbudmg, Ire||;eu him out to the fcholars, faying, beehere’s a queafy ftomach’d fellow that wouldmot touch a bit of btead to day ! When theyUw him in this plight, they all fell heartilyU laughing; but Friar Bacon, not fo con-liented, led him to the college-gate, and byiinehantment fixing the end of the puddinc-i'f *he bar, he was made fo faff to it as if itiiad been by a cable rope, and on his backivtre placed thcle lines,jlhis is Friar Bacon’s man, who vow’d to fail*,dot, dike mb ling, thus it took at laid jThe pudding more religion had than he ;Tho’ he would eat it, it will not down you fee,;Then of hypocrify pray all beware.Left like dilgrace be each dilfembler’s fhare.Miles all the while was jeered and fportedwith by all the fcholars and town’s people,but after four hours penance, his mafter dif-folved the charm, and releafed him ; and heever after kept the falls, not fo much out oS’eligion. as for fear that a v/orfe trick fhoukbe put upon him.c h a r. in.r(?Vr T:::: Saces s i-enucffiji who !&<- fold himfelf to the Levil for money, and p«a trick upon the old deceiver of mankind.WHen Friar Bacon flourilhed at Oxforda young gentleman, by hi* prodiga¬lity, having run out his eftate and involve*himfelf in debt, grew exceeding p'enfive andmelancholy, putpofing to make bimfeif awayin order to put an end to his miterics anthe fcorns that were daily put upon him hhis farmer companions., being alfc utterly caoff by his friends ; fo walking by a wootfide, full of Ionov, he met as he though#1 old trtan in good cJoathing, who falaUdim, and demanded the caufe ot his ruaui-*holy, and why he walived fo IbliUu y ,\trd he refufed to tell him, as thinking heouid do him no good ; but the other urg-tig it, promifed to afibi him if he wantedny thing : he faid, I am in want. I wantine cloaths as I ufed to have ; I want moneyo buy food, pay debts, r veem my mortgag’dand, and many things more ; can you helpne to enough to do it ? I can, laid the oldnan, on one condition. What’s that r laid(he gentleman ; if it be any thing tolerable;l. fitall not refufe it; for l cannot be wellivorfe, or in greater harUdup than I am now.Why, faid the other, the matter is not fa‘~--h • vou Hull only oblige vourielf. wheni[‘iiave furniftied you with money to do adyou have named, and you have paid every onern owe a farthing to, to become obedientme, and be difpofed of at my pleafure.jlNow the young nun taking him for anillfurer, and very rich, fuppoied this obliga-:tion was only a fetch to marry his daughter,lor fome kinfwoman of his, which he could;be well contented to do, not doubting to haveI a good portion, and therefore fcrupled not t»! d« as he defired. Upon this he bid him meet;:him the next morning, about the fame time,kr^ea he would have the writing ready ; andi on figning he fhou'd have the money. Sor . : ' ( i4 )t^fT. parted ; and the gentlemen delayed naComing, without afkmg advice, and was apunctually met $ but when he faw the writ*mg :a blood, he was ftartled a little ; but the' cld man told him, it was only a whim ohip own to have it fo written to diftinguili*it from'other men’s, and put his debtors morein mind to repay the money he lent themUpon tins fpeech, and the gentleman’s fee'ing {tore of gold and filver brought by threeor four of whom he fuppofed to be fervadts, h>.beheved it. But how, laid he, fhall 4 writewith the lame ? O, faid he, let me fee, Ptiprick your right vein ; which he did, whildthe gentleman found an unufual trembling,and an inward remorfe in his mind : how.ever, taking the bloody pen in his hand, hedefperatdy lubfcribed and fealed the writinj.ihen telling the money inia a cloak bag.he laid it on his horfe, and they, with muchceremony, took leave of each otaer. Thegen ieman laughed in his fleeve to think howhe would find him out, feeing he had notalked, nor himfelt told him, where he lived.Soon after he fummoned all his creditors,paid them to a farthing, redeemed his land,went gallant, and recover’d his efteemin theworld : but one evening as he was lookingover his writings in idskclofet, he llpardhomebody rap at the door ; wlnn openinghe faw the party he had borrowed the nioueylj( I5 T' with the writing in his hand. \vho toidn, he was now come to demand him, andi muft now go along with him ■, ioi to msowl edge he had paid his debts and donelatever was agreed to. Ihe gentleman,bndering how he fhould know this lo toon,miedit.° Nay, replied h«, fiercely, deny itof, for I’ll not be cheated of my ua- gam :nd thereupon changed into a horn' -le liiape,truck him atmoll dead with fear, for now!e perceived it was the devil. 1 ftsTt he toldijn, if he did (hot meet on the ' o or row inlire fame place he had lent hirn the money,e would come the nent day, anu tear himIp pieces ; and fays he, if 1 prove not yah atj fay, you fliail be quiet. And fo vr.tninedI ut of the window in a flafii ef flame, withiji'orrible bdlowings. The gentleman, feeingiiiknfelf in this cafe, began to weep bitterly,|j.nd wiihed he had been contented in his fad|ondition, rather than have taken fuch alitfperate way to enrich himfeif *. and wastlmofl at his wits end.Friar Bacon, knowing by ills art what hadDaft, came to comfort him ; and having heard:tbe whole ft cry, bid him not delpair, but pray,land repent of his fins, and he would contriveIto drew the devil a trick that fhouid reieafehim from his .obligation. 'I his greatly com¬forted the gentleman and he promifed to dowhatever the f riar ihouid order Iron. ri hm^ ~ ( >5 )I !Rys ^ :neet at tile appointed, andWJ' bc il-ar • offev to put the dedfion of t%ntr£Vnr-iy t0 the llcxt ,hit comes by, a*. fhat ftall be myfeit ; and I wilt find a w.inialboly to give it on your fide. Accordingm , ne met, and the devil confented to put it"arbitrauon. 1 hen Friar Bacon appearing, X.,fp! . t”e gentleman, • here’s a proper judge. 115 i^nied -Friaf diall determine it: andit goes a gam ft me, you have free libertydo with me as you pleafe. Content, laid t!devil.^ f r,:i each of them told their ftorand the writing was produced, with all tfacquittances he had taken; for'the de,*concrary to his knowledge, had ftolcn thfuand the other writings belonging to his efhtsout ef his C>oxr^t. Tlie Friar, weighing wethe matter, afkeJ the gentleman, whethvhe had paid the devil any of the money hborrowed of him. No, replied he, not onfarthing. Why then. Aid he, Tvir Devilhis debts are not difeharged ; you are hiprincipal creditor, and, according ta thiwriting, can lay no claim to him till everone oi his debts are difeharged. How 1 howreplied the devil, am I out-wilted then!O friar, thou art a crafty knave ! Aiythereupon vaniihed in a flame, railing jmighty tempdl; of thunder, lightening, antrain ; lo that they were wet through befor-they could get fhelter, .. 'I’hen Bacon charges.V .'HVr • < *7 >i,he fhould never pay the devil a farthinghis debt, whatever fhape he came in, orfoce he ufed to wheedle him out of it,i then he could have no power over him.ie gentlemen on this, living a temperate[gal life, grew very rich, a^d leaving noildren, at his death bequeathed his eilateBrazen Nofe College, becaufe Friar Baconnember of it, had delivered him from ioeat a dancer of body and foul.C K A P. IV.ow Friar Bacon fram’d a brazen head, whichby inchanrment was to speak; by that meansall England had been walled with bt ais, hthe folly of his man Miles, who was fet tow atch the head, had uot dilappointed it, nottimely calliiig his mailer to anfwer it; for.which he was ftruck dumb many days.iT'PJar Bacon, being now a profound pro-F ficient in the art of magic, and manyither fciences, contrived, with one knarjisungey, who- w as hil; pupil, to do fomethingitlemorable for the good of Ins country, andIn&ny things they call in their minds ;/ Ataft they remember, d that England had often:xcn htrtafiee .1.110 invadeu by the Romans,;Kjjcr.^s Danes, Ncrmans, and otherrat Amdry tht :rzn* tffufioii of bloffland often alttrntioi. the ccuftitutiongovernments ; and .. any thing mightt c*ntriyed t(f prevent the like for’the futuJthey fliould there', y raife a lading mpr.ment to their names.Bacon upon this concluded to frame a he-cf brails ; and if by their art. they coucame it to jpiakv and anitver their demanctuv y rcq: :re.. that, al! : he fea-girt fhores 'a-.i'ghmd and Wales fhouid be walled wibia'.':, and brazen towers be raifed oh tiiiv iiiers of Scotland, to hinder the incuhons and rovings of the hardy Scots.| 1 hey laboured tod* this by art, but coirnot ; fo they co.njurcd up a fpirit, to enqui:of the infernal council, whether it might 1done, or not. fhe fpirit, however, was uiwilling to anfwer till Friar Bacon threatens• frith his charms to bind him in chains in tbid Nd fed or to a burning rock, and make hirttc iport cf wrecking whirlwinds. *|lerrified by this means, he faid, of himfcli he could -give no anfwer, but muff enquire of his Lord Lucifer. They granted hirtwo days for an anfwer, accordingly he returned this., “ If-hey for two months wouucarefully watch the head, it fhouid in thatime fpeak, but the certain time fhouid nobe known to them; and then if they dii.hear if, they fhouid be anfwercd."It this they much rejoiced, and watchedurns ^ery carefully for fix weeks, and noc was uttered i At length tired out, andten for want of their natural reft, they:luded fome other might watch as welljhey, till they refrelhed themfelves in re-L and call them when the head began to|tk, which would be time enough ; andjjaufe this was a fecret they did not careI having it known till they faw what theyI da make of it. Bacon thereupon, propofedman Miles, and Bungey approved ol it j'they called Miles, told him the nature ot!: brazen heat and'what was intended, bymg him a. ftrid charge, on his life, toake them as Mon as ever he heard it IpeaA.'For that, mafter, laid he, let me alone ; Iarrant you i’ll do your but'f.efs efieeiu.ver tear it. So he got him a long i.vordr his fide, and z taboi and pipe to play, andlep him awake if any drew finds, or thete, ihould overtake linn.The charge being given, and he thus ac-outred, the two Fiiars went to reft in theeyt apartment. Miles then began to pipenel fir a longs of his Iweethearts and fiolicc,Betty that is fo frolic and gay, _Tike a cat fine bves with her tail to play ;T hough lometip.es {he’ll punt and frown,'All’s wed if yok lay hei uown.S'( )never fay nay, but fpart and pfH.O Bcfl> i me is the queen of the -May!For Margery file is peeviih and proud yCome fidlers then, and ferapethe crovWhilft his merriment paffed, after a hondife, like thunder almoft fpent, the h[poke dittindly, Time is. O ho i fays Miis this all the news you can tell me ? Wcopper nofe has my mailer taken all 1pains about you, and you can fpeak no wifM thou think I am fuch a fool to bnhis iwcet Hum for thi,. ? No, fpeak wifer,lie fhali lleep on. Time is, quotha ! Whknow time is, and that thou firalt hegoodman kettle jaws.T ime is for fome to gain,l ime is for fome to tofe ;1 ime is for fome to hand.But then they cannot choofe.Time is to go a fcore,Time is when one flould pay;’lime is to reckon tooBut feVr care for thit day.1 ime is m^graft the lorn,Upon another’s he.d ;rJ'iniie is to make mans bellies fweil,Oh then ’ti§ time tiev’re wed.Ifet-v( 21 )lear’ft thou this, goodman copper nofe ?Jcholars know when time is, withoutbabbling : We know when time is tok good ftck, eat well, kifs our hcfief-and run on the fcore. But when time' pay them, is indeed but feldom.'fliiHT: thus he menily difcourfed, aboutan hour after, the fame node began as>rc . and the head faid, Time was. ° WellMiles, this blockifli head is the fot^linieftg my wife matter ever troubled him fell-Jt. How would he have laughed, had heji here, to hear it prat fo fimply 1 There-b thou brazen faced afs, fpeak wjfer, orJdl ne’er trouble my head to awake 1 im.e was, quotha ! thou afs thou ! I know, >ad fo thou link hear ; for 1 find my•tr has watched and tutored thee to atpurpofe.I Time was when thou, a kettle,Was wront to hold good matter ;But Friar Bacon did thee fpoihWhen he thy fides did batter.• ■*1 Time was when confcience dwelt,j ^With men of each vocation j1 Time was when lawyers did nbt thriveSo well by men’s vexations.r1( 22 )Time was when charityWas not- deny’d a being ;, Time was when office kept no knaveThat time was worth ihe feeing./'Ay, ay, and time was for many ot- er thJRut what of that, goodic.an brazen-faclfee my nuttier has placed me here on a Hfoolifh account : I think I’d as good gljfleep toe, as to Hay watching here t<purpofe. Wbild I e thus fcofled and t.ed, the head fpoke a third time, andTime is past ; and fo, with a horrid nfell down and broke to pieces. Where;enfued lamentable fhrieks and cries, flol fire, and a rattling as of thunder, uawakihg the" two Friars, they came runin, in great disorder found miles rolfinthe floor, in a (linking pickje, almoflwith fear, and the head lying fhanered c^he room in a thoufand pieces ■ Thening brought him to his fenfes again,demanded how this came. Nay, theknows better than I, faid Mites, I belie’was in this plaguy head ; for when it legave a bounce like a cannon. Wretchthou art! faid Bacon, trifle not with m-patience ! Didfl: thou hear it fpeak, vaanfwer me that.Why truly, faid Miles, it did fpeak ;very fiihply, confidering you have be<( 23 )ig a tutoring it, I protect I could havejght a jackdav; to have ipoke belter in twovs. It f.-vid liiMt: is. Oh, villain! fays.con, hadft thou call’d me then, all Englandd been walled with brafs. to mv immortal 'ne. Then continued Milep, about half anm afte1. it faid I ime was. Oh,wretch !w my anger burns againil thee ; had you>. c.u led me then, it might have done whatdired. Then faid he it laid. Time’s past,a. fo fell down with the horrid noife thatked you anti made me, I’m fure, befoul• breeches; and fmee here’s fo much to doaut time, 1 think it’s time rot me to retired clea myfelf. Well villain ! fays Ifccon,m haft loft all our colt and pains by thydilh negligence Why, faid Miles, I thoughtivoukl not have flopped when it once bc-n, but would have gone on and told metnc pleafant ftory. or have commanded mehave called you. and 1 Ihould have done itt I iee the devil iv a cunning foohifterd all hen would not allow him tinkersd brafs enough io do the work and there-'e has put this trick upon us to get oft'Jm his promile. How, Have! faid theiar, art thou at butfounry, now thou baftne me this great injury ? Sirrah ! becaufe 'u think the head fpuke not enough to in-ce you to call us, you fliall fpeak lefs in3 months fpace, and with that, by'• '■ '*; Kgv - f • ra.v.-( 24 )endiantmeiit, he ftruck him damb to >end of that time, and would have dc,worie, had not Bungey had compafiionthe fellow’s fnnplicity, and perfuaded 1from it.And thus ends the hidory of that famFriar Bacon, who had done a deed wfwould have made his fame ring throughages yet to come, had it not been for3mpHcity of his man Miles.finis.n4