TUB LIFE, TRIAL, AND >£$EKECUTIOlf,. A<*$Bav$ S'lonr^Bsm^AGED 19,^VUO WAS EXECUTED ATEDINBURGH,On Mon. 22nd Feb. 1841,For tha murtlsi* of her master a*tl mistress ;giving an acconnt of her innocence beingproved and the real mftrderer discovered.J. BROWN, PRINTER, EDINBURGH VM'N9 flTHE LIFE, TRIAL ANDEXECUTIONOFM A R Y T II O M P S O N,The master and mistress of the'above female were most inhumanlybutchered, by having their throatscut from ear to ear. This youngwoman had lived servant with these■aged and -unfortunate people up¬wards of 7 years, and was muchesteemed by all. who know her jand, by her general good conduct,had gained the confidence of those^with whom she lived, who entrus¬ted her with the management of■'13her affairs, and placed the greatest"confidence on her honesty. Theyhad kept a large Inn in the vicin¬ity of Edinburgh, for a number ofyears, but had, a short time since,rebred to a small cottage to passthe remainder of their days ingreater quietude^ than the bustleof an Inn permitted. It was thepractice of the old couple to retireto rest about 9 o’clock at night,and .use about the same time In themornino- leaving everv thing tothe servant’s cate. Not having anychild of their own, it was general¬ly believed that her master wouldbehave handsomely to her, provide .ing s :e married accoreing to his •wishes. This brought the girl anumber of lovers, and amongstthem a young man named Jones,who was most assiduous in his at¬tention towards her, who lee hayedalways with the greatest proprietybecame a great favourite with theold couple.On Monday, Jones went as us¬ual to the house, ami when the4 'companj-liad left and tire old cou¬ple retired to rest, the servant satwith him by the kitchen fire; shehad occasion to leave the kitchen ashort time, and on her return, shemissed him. Hearing a noise, sheran up stairs to her mistress’ roomwhere,to her great terror, she foundthe dravvers plundered, and hermasterand mistress lyinir with, theirthreats cutfand the blood gushingin torrents from the wounds. Sueimmediately threw up a front win-t - ^(low and gave the alarm, jahd the.■ alaiirt, and the neighbours entering.no one being fomul in the housebut her, suspicion fell upon her,and from constancy to her. lover,she permitted herself to be fullycommitted for trial. At the lateassizes she was arraigned, convict¬ed, and sentenced to be hung andher body buried within the jail.At the place of Execution sheaddressed the numerous by-stand-Ors as follows :“Adood People—You are nowcome to see the latter end of a poorunfortunate young woman,19 years'**of age, who is brought to an igno¬minious death for murder; I say,there is a just God that sitteth inthe judgement seat of Heaven, be¬fore whom I must shortly appearto answer for all mv sins. I mostsolemnly declare before God andthe world, that I am innocent ofthe murder as-the child unborn,”and then burst into tears.After this slue prayed with theMinister, and sung, a penitentialpsalm, she went down upon her"It ness ami prayed that the Almigh¬ty would convince the multitudeassembled of her innocency or iiuilt*/ oby showing them the followingmiracles—that if she. was guilty itmmht be one of the finest davs thatO ^could come from heaven, but if slimwere innocent that the darknessmight overspread the town duringthe time she was suspended. Hersupplication reached the throne ofgrace; fbr immediately on her be¬ing turned off, a dark thick cloudcoveted the countrv for numv IVules6attended with thunder, ligbtninfr7 o Oand rain, Jones,'who was a specta¬tor, stung with guilt and horror,rushed through the crown, exclam-ing, ‘ I AM THE’MURDEREKrand delivered liimselt into thehands o! justice. Tlio woman wasi •'nmedi. tely cut down, and medi¬cal aid procured, hut. the vital sparkhad go le for ever. Me fully confes¬sed his guilt, but declared the mur¬der was not premeditated, but liewas struck with a desire to gaintheir riches, and he intended tohave murdered his sweetheart also.He is fhlU committed for trial atthe next, Assizes.COPY OF VEK3ES.Yn servant fjish hotli far a:iJ no if, •I i r y you ti> HtienS,j\ t:il in ; ilv sM by ihuie feW lines,VVhi. 1) I injii. huv. pin’d.W ilf y >u are in yonr-Master's house,IF \ ou’rl to lull'd by me,D’jin’v let your S'.v'eethcans come by night,A OLirtiug nnto llree.He-mighi have a dish. riest her.t,Lihwisc a murdoing hand, •7' The devil end Ins 8'ibtiU waje.Are bard to understanb.After you persue ibis book,I hope-iliat you will guard,Against a similar overthrow,,You see what’s my reward.To die upon the gallows tree’For what I never did.May it not happen unto tbte.I pray not, God forbid.May God still give you gi ace to eftonte.While you’re iu single life.To fiy up >n a proper m;.n,To whom y-iu’ll be a wife.Ob ! you that have not hearts of stone.Attend to what I say,For death has seal’d my curly doom,And summon’d me away.Alas this dreadful fate of minrTThat I should die in scorn,Although us guiltless ef the crimr>As is the bebe unborn.To atone for blood I never shed,In midst of youth and bloom,I to the fatal scaffold led.Must meet the nnrderer’s doom.And while I stand exposed th&re,. Before the knot is tied,P»'8‘ ^5y innocence I will declare,v To all the world hcaide.Ala31 you,11 neue;- live 1 feer,To bear this cruel stroke.What would your tender bosom f<el,To see your darling child,Brought to an end so vile.'* Before my eyes are clos’d I pray,Anti Huav'n -nty prayeas hear,My innocence may be lerral’d,An«l be as noon day clear.And bring the hand to light,Who did the horrid deed,That all may know poor Mary Thomson» Ft e.vell my eaged mother dear.Your tender he U't is broke.TTliat you had nourish’d at your br&ast.Was innocent indeedHhe met hei ignominious death,Resingn’d to he hard fate,But tio.t c.. ha i yielded up her breath,When u vi’u! to rtelato.A tn ju confess'd unto tha crime,For wh c’) ’Uie m.i e i died,n iw in Irons is co Tru’d,lijf 'rial to abide.