No, VI, Price One Penny.HAT TLBS OF TUBNile and Alexandria* !* ' A SELECTION OFAMUSING AND INSTRUCTIVE dPAMPHLETS^ <COMPRlSlSOLIVES or GREAT WARRIORS & STATESMENSBATTLSS ON B$5A & LAND, aHISTORIES or tflFFEliENt COUNTRIES, H|!ACCOUNTS OF WONDERFUL EVENTS, SlNOULAiVCHARACTERS, ami NOtOlitOUS OFFENDERS JUseful family RECEfFTS, cookShY, &c, hu*.EDINBUIURI:rRI'JTPD FOR THE BOOKStf.tCftiJ,By P. AUanlire. Leith'1 1&2& ' /Mat tie of the Nile.ESefobk proceeding to give an account of tHi#splendid naval engagement, it becomes necessaryto take a momentary view of the relative positionsof the two contending powers, France and Eng¬land, at the period when it was fought. Early inthe year 1798, Britain was alarmed by reports of athreatened invasion from France, and by accountsof great naval preparations on the coast of thatcountry, opposite to England. The idea of invad¬ing our shores, however, which had been actuallycontemplated, was abandoned, and the project ofconquering Egypt substituted in its place. Theorinciple object of Buonaparte, who suggested this;xpedition, was to invade our possessions in theKast Indies, to gratify his own anibition, and togsecure to Ffance a share, il not the whole, of the)commerce ot the East. The invasion of Egyptbeing then resolved upon, a large fleet, hav¬ing on board a numerous army, commanded byBuonaparte, sailed from Toulon on the 19ih ofiMay, 1798. The line of battle ships, of this for-!midable armament, extended for a league; and1the immense convoy, by which they were accom¬panied, formed a semicircle of nearly six times5 'that extent. On the 29th of June following, the,French fleet arrived in safety on the coast orEgypt, though not without making several narrow1escapes from the British squadron, commanded bythe immortal Nelson, who had been for someweeks in quest of them. The French troops hav¬ing been landed, the fleet proceeded to the bay of'Aboulcir, a short distance from the place of do-!barkation, and there came to anchor ; taking up,at the same time, what they considered a strongposition, in case of any attack from the EngUsl'jsquadron, should they be discovered.Nelson was scouring the sees in search of thisfleet; and having repaired to the neighbourhoodof Naples for information, he directed his coursetowards Sicily, He there learned the surrender ofMalta, and immediately took on board expeit pi¬lots, and passed the straits of Messina. He wasnow informed that the French had left Malta; heinstantly steered for Candia, and being assured theywere bound for Egypt, whither he concluded theymust have directed their course, aatbey had sailed-irom Toulon with a north-west wind. After a pur¬suit of several weeks’ duration, sometimes obtainingintelligence of the enemy, and for many days toge¬ther lo-ing sight entirely of their route," Nelsonlearned that they had gone towards Alexandria.lyTo this place, therefore, he determined to proceedJf4with all possible dispatch. On the 1st of Augustthe Pharas, a light house .off Alexandria, was dis¬covered by the British fleet, who were steering di¬rectly towards it; and, as they approach ad, dis¬covered a wrood of masts in the harbour. A nearerinspection, however, showed them, to their greatmortification, that there was not a single ship ofwar amongst them ; and that, therefore, they werenot there whom they sought. But their disap¬pointment was of short duration ; in a short timeafterwards, the Alexander* and Leander, two ofNelson's ships, which were about two leagues a-headof the fleet, flung out the joyful signal that theyhad discovered ships of war to the eastward. Thestraggling ships were instantly called in,—the fleetwas formed in compact order,—and, in a shorttime, the bay af Aboukir, filled with the ships ofthe enemy, opened on the gratified sight of tireBritish squadron.The French fleet, order the command of Ad¬miral Brueys, were moored in a strong and com¬pact line of battle, stretching nearly across the bay,and consisted of 13 ships of the line, and 4 frigates,carrying 119G guns, and llpSSO men. The Eng¬lish had the same number of ships of the line, andone 50 gun ship, carrying 1012 guns^ and 8008tnen. The English ships were all 74’s. TireFrench had three 80 gun ships, and one 3 deckerof 120. This last was the L’Orient, the admiral'sown ship. Nelson had no sooner obtained a sightof the position jvhich the enemy had assumed, thanlie determined,; with that promptitude of decisionfor which he was so remarkable, on the mode ofAttack. The enemy’s ships, as we have alreadysaid, were anchored in a line across the bay, theadmiral’s, the LOrient, occupying the centre.Nelson immediately conceived the hold idea ui5doublino; the line, and taking up a position, withpart of his fleet, inside between them and the land;where, he rightly judged, he would find them al¬together unprepared, and the fact turned out as heanticipated. Never dreaming that such a ma¬noeuvre would he attempted, or that any attackwould be made but on the offside, to which thegreater part of their guns had been brought. The ‘enemy had left the other nearly defenceless. Asthe British squadron bore down on the Frenchfleet, they were assailed by a shower of shot andshells from batteries placed on an island whichcommanded the passage, between the end of theenemy’s line and the shore; besides this, they werealso exposed to a tremendous fire from the star¬board side of the French ships, within half gun¬shot distance.This dreadful salute was received in silencd by jthe British, who were coolly employed aloft, in jeach ship, in furling sails, and below in tendingthe braces, and making ready for anchoring.' Thefirst ship that had the honour of leading the way, jin rounding the enemy’s line, was the Goliah.'a"H, Captain Foley, who having gained the insideof Le Gnerrier, also a 74, the first ship in the line, jf ’he poured into her a most destructive broadside. iIt was originally F’oley’s intention to have singledout this ship as his oppenent, but having driftedfrom the proper position, lie dropped upon herneighbour the Conquerant, anchored by her stern,and in ten minutes shot away her mainmast. TheZealous, another 74, Captain Flood, who followedclose in the wake of the Goliah, took up the sta¬tion which F'oley intended to have occupied,—cn- jgaged the Guerrier, and in twelve minutes totally Udisabled her.The third ship which doubled the enemy’s ling :6was the Orion, Sir J. Saumarez, who passing the'Zealous, but, at the same instant, pouring intothat ship’s antagonist, the Guerrier, a murderouslire so long as her guns would bear upon her, an¬chored between the fifth and sixth ships from thelast named vessel. Taking her station on the lar¬board bow of the Franklin, an 80 gun ship, andthe quarter of the Peuple Souyerain, a 74, receiv¬ing and returning the lire of both. The Audacious,Captain Gould, next followed, pouring, as theothers had done, a heavy fire into the shatteredGuerrier as she passed. Close after her came theThesus, Captain Miller, who, following the ex¬ample of the Audacious, discharged a tremendousbroadside, and brought down almost every remain¬ing stick on board that ill fated ship. Theseships, having each selected an antagonist, began aclose and furious engagement.! While these advanced vessels doubled the Frenchline, tlie Vanguard, Nelson’s ship, was the firstthat anchored on the outer side of the enemy,within half pistol-shot of their third ship, theSpartiate, a 74. Nelson had six colours flying indifferent parts of his rigging, lest they should beshot away. He instantly opened a tremendousfire, under cover of which the other four ships ofhis division, the Minotaur, Beliorophon, Defence,and Majestic, sailed on a-head of the admiral. Ina few minutes, every man stationed at the Hist sixglUts, in the forepart of the Vanguard’s deck, waskilled or wounded—these guns were three timescleared. Captain Louis, in the Minotaur, anchorednext a-head, and took off the fire of the Aquilon,the fourth in the enemy’s line. The Bellerophon,Captain Darby, passed a-head, and diopjjed herstern anchor on the starboard bow of the Orient,the 7th in the line, and whose difference of force,from that of her antagonist, was in proportion of7 to 3, and whose weight of ball, from the lowerdeck alone, exceeded that from the wholfe broadsideof the Bellerophon. Captain Peyton, in the De¬fence, took his station a-head of the Minotaur, andengaged the Franklin, the sixth in the line ; thuswas that ship, with several others, who, as has beenalready said, were attacked on the land side, placedbetween two fires. The Majestic, -Captain Wcst-eott, got entangled with the main rigging of oneof the French ships astern of the Orient, andsuffered dreadfully from that three decker’s fire,but she swung clear, and closely engaging theHeureux, the ninth ship in the line, received alsothe fire of the Tennant, which was the eight. Theether four ships of the British line, having beendetached previous to the discovery o4" the*French,were at a considerable distance when the actionbegan. It commenced at half past 6; about 7night closed, leaving the combatants no other lightthan that from the fire of the contending fleets.Trouhridge, in the Colloden, then foremost of theregaining ships, was two leagues astern. Hecattie on sounding as the other ships had done.As he advanced, the increasing darkness augmentedthe difficulty of the navigation, and suddenly, afterhaving found eleven fathoms water, before the lead•could be hove again, he was fast aground ; norcould all Imovni exertions, joined to those of othertwo ships which came to his assistance', get him offin time to bear a part in the action. His ship,however, served as a beacon to the Alexander and.Bwiftsure, which would else, from the course theywere holding, have gone considerably further onthe reef, and must inevitably have been lost.These ships entered the hay and took their sta¬tions, in the darknesr, in a manner still spoken 148wtb arimhatk'n hv si! who leTocntJw'r iti C'apfa-iriHallowfll, in the hhvifWnc, a 74, m Ik* was heal¬ing down, lell in wjth whsi seemed U* be a strange*ai|. Nelson had directed his ships to hoist ibut.tights horizontly at the siii/.en jxtak as soon as itheeamp dark, and this vessel had no such distinc¬tion. Hal lowed, however, with great judgment,ordered his men not to fire ; it' she was an enemy,he said, she was in too disabled a state to escape,but from her sails being loose, and the way inwhich her head was, it \ya» probable she might bean English ship, It was the BelltTophon over¬powered by the huge Orient ; her lights had gonepverboard, nearly gOO of her crew were killed orWOtinded, all her masts and cables had hfeji shotjjway, and she was drifting out of the line towardsthe lee side of the hay. her station at this im¬portant time, was occupied by the Swiftsure, whichopened a steady lire on the f'ranklhi, and the bowsof the French admiral. At the same instant Cap¬tain Ball, with the Alexander, passed under hisstern, and anchored within-side on his larboardquarter, raking him, and keeping a severe fire ofmusquetry upon his decks. The last ship whicharrived to complete the destruction of the enemyyras the heander. Captain Thomson, finding thatnothing could be done that night to get off theCulloden, advanced with the intention of anchoringathwart-hawse of the Orient, The Franklin wasso near her a-head that there was not room forhim to pass clear of the two, he therefore look hisstation athwart-hawse of the latter in such a posj.tion as to take both. This masterly manoeuvre,by which he dreadfully annoyed the enemy, whilsthis own ship remained in comparative safety, con¬sisted in his placing his ship between the how andstern of tvrp of the enemy’s ve^seds; which, being$moot ed, could bring, only the one her bow and tli£other her stern guns to hear upon him, whilst heswept their decks, from stem to stern, with wholebroadsides.The two first ships of the t’renph line had beet!di masted within a quarter of an hour after the com¬mencement of the action, atid the others sufferedso severely that victory was already certain. Thethird, fourth, and fifth were taken possession of athalf past 8. Meantime, Nelson received a woundon die head from a piece of lamiridge shot. Cap¬tain Iterry caught him in his arms as he was fall¬ing. The great effusion of blood occasioned aitapprehension that the wound was mortal. Nelsonhimself thought so ; a large flap of the skin of theforehead, cut from the bone, bad fallen over oneeye, and, the other being blind, he was in totaldarkness. When he was carried dovrn, the sur¬geon—in the midst of a scene scarcely to be con¬ceived by those who have never seen a cockpit itltime of action, and the heroism which is displayedamid its horrors—with a natural but pardonableeagerness, quitted the poor fellow then under hishands, that he might instantly attend the pdnliral.“ No,” said Nelson, “ I tvill take my turn withmy brave fellows.” Nor would he suffer his woundto be examined till every man who had previouslybeen wounded was properly attended to. Fullybelieving that the wound was mortal, and that hewas about to die as he hnd ever desired, in battleand in victory, be called the chaplain, ami desiredhim t6 deliver what he supposed to bp his dyingremembrance to Lady Nelson. He then sent forCaptain Louis, from on board the Minotaur, thathe might thank him personally for the great assist*ance which he had rendered to the Yanguvd; andever mindful of those who deserved to be ins friends.It)/>*).'»unloijl Cautaiii .if«;T?rl_vf of il*f ■ La Mulinr,to (he ooimri^ikl of In. «r^'u s!iip. Captain Berryhavuig to go Jiome with the news of the victory.When the surgeon came in due time to examinethe wound, (for it was in vain to intrcat him to letit be examined' sooner*) the most anxious silence■prevailed; and the joy of the wounded men, andid' the whole crew, when they heard that the hurtwas superficial, gave Nelson deeper pleasure thanthe unexpected assurance that his fife was in nodanger. The surgeon requested, and, as far as hecould, ordered him to remain quiet, but Nelsoncould .not rest. He called (br his secretary, Mr; Campbell, to write the dispatches. Campbellhad himself been wounded, and was so affected, atthe blind and suffering state of the admiral, thathe was unable to write. The chaplain was sent1 for, hut before he came Nelson, with bis charac¬teristic eagerness, took the pen, and contrived totrace a few words, marking his devout sense of thesuccess which had already been obtained He wasnow left alone, when suddenly a cry was heard ondeck that the Orient was on fire. In the confusionhe found his wav up unassisted and unnoticed ;and, to the astonishment of every one, appeared onthe quarter deck, where he immediately gaveorders that boats should be sent to the relief ofthe enemy. It was soon after 9 that the fire onboard thy Orient broke out Brueys, the admi¬ral, who, though he had received three wounds, yetwould not leave his post; a fourth cut him almostin two. He desired not to be carried below, hutto be left? to die upon deck. The flames soonmastered his ship. Ilef sides had just been paint¬ed, and the oil jars, and paint buckets, were lyingon the poop. By the prodigious light of the con-ffagratun, the situation of the two fleets could nowirbo perceived, viie colours oi both belag eles) ivdistinguished. About 10 o’clock, the ship blewup with a shock which was felt to the very bottomof every vessel. Many of her officers and menjumped overboard, some clinging to the spars andpieces of wreck with which the sea was strewn,others swimming to escape from the destructionwhich they momently dreaded. Some were pickedup by our boats, and some, even in the heat andfury of the action, were dragged into the lowerports of the nearest British ships, by the Britishsailors. The greater part of her crew, however,maintained their posts to the last, and continued tofire from the lower deck.This tremendous explosion was followed by asilence not less awful. The firing immediatelyceased o» both sides, and the first sound whichbroke the dead calm was the dash of her shatteredmasts and yards falling into the water, from thevast height to which they had been projected bythe explosion. About 70 of the Orient’s crew,which orginally consisted of 1010 men, were savedby the English boats. Among the many hundredswho perished were the commodore, Casa Biania,and his son, a brave boy, only ten \ears ol *. Theywere seen floating on a shattered mast when theship blew up. She had money on board (theplunder of Malta,) to the amount of d?6‘00>000sterling.. The masses of burning wreck whichwere scattered by the explosion, excited, for somemoments, apprehensions in the English which theyhad never felt from any other danger. Two largepieces fell into the main and foietops of the Swift-sure without injuring any person. A port-fire alsofell into the main-royal of the Alexander,—the firewhich it occasioned was speedily extinguished.Captain Ball having provided, as far as human fore-19sight £guM provide, again 4 any <oieh dancrer. AUthe shrewd1! and sails of lus ship, not absolutelynecessary for its immediate managemerit, werethorougiily netted, and so relied up that they wereas hard and as little inflammable as so many solidcylinders.The firing recommenced with the ships to lee¬ward of the centre, and continued till about three.At day break, the Guillaume Tell and the Gen-ereux, the two rear ships of the enemy, were theonly French ships of the line which had their col¬ours flying. They cut their cables in the fore¬noon, not having been engaged, and stood out tosea, and two frigates with them. The Zealouspursued ; but as there was no other ship in a con¬dition to support Captain Hood, he was recalled.It was generally believed by the officers, that ifNelson had not been wounded, not one of theseshi}« could have escaped. The four certainlycould not, if the Culloden had got into action ;and if the frigates belonging to the squadron hadbeen present, not one of the enemy’s fleet wouldhave left Aboukir Hay. These four vessels, how¬ever, were all that escaped, and the victory wasthe most complete and glorious in the annals ofnaval history. “ Victory,” said Nelson, “ is not uname strong enough for such a scene !” He calledit a conquest. Of 13 sail of the line, 9 were taken,and 2 burnt; of the 4 frigates, 1 was sunk, ano¬ther, the Artemise, was burnt in a villainous man¬ner by her Captain, M. Estandlet, who, havingfired a broadside at the Thesus, struck his colours,then set fire to the ship, and escaped with most ofhis crew to shore. The British loss, in killed andwounded, amounted to SOS- Westcott was theonly captain who f. 11. 3l()o of the French, inclu¬ding the wounded, were sent on shore by cartel.Ifin<l ppii^ipd. As snoto as fhf ctmCjUPst wasnmpletpcl, Kelson sent orders through the fleeti return thanksgiving, in every ship, for the vic-3ry with v.hieh Almighty God had blessed his Ma*?sty’s arms. Long after this tremendous battleEnumerable bodies were seen floating about theray, in spite of all the exertions which were madeo sink them, as well from fear of pestilence, asrom the loathing and horror which the sight oc-asioned. The shore, for an extant of 4 leagues,vas covered with wreck ; and the Arabs foundemployment for many days in burning on thejeach the fragments which were cast up, for thesake of the iron. In order to give a more completedea of the force employed in this memorablejngagcment, than can be gathered from the narra¬tive of tlie battle, we introduce the following spe¬cification :—BRITISH LINE OF BATTLE.Ships.Culloden*ThesusAlexanderVanguardMinotaurbeamierSwiftsureAudauciottsDefenceZealousOrionGoliahMajesticBellerophonGuns. Men. Commanders.7 4 590 Captain Troubridge74 59074 590Kit. wd.74 £9575 64050 34374 59074 59074 59074 5907 5 79074 53074 £9074 590O514l.a Mutine, brjg 14K. }V. MillerA. J. Ball( Sir Horatio Nelson,-J rear-admiral of the Blue,( Captain Edward Berry 30Thomas l.ouisThomas B. Thomson11. IlallovrellD. GouldJohn PeytonSamuel HoodSir James SaumarezThomas FoleyGeo. B. WestcottHon D'F.tree DarbyTotalO3058• The Culloden struck the ground in leading in, and was pre¬vented by that accident from taking any share in the engagement.HShipsLe GuerrierFRENCH LINE OF BATTLEGuns. Men. Commander74 . 7COLe ConquerantLe Spartiate7474700700L’AquilonI.e Souverain Peuple 7474 700 Thevenard.700How dir.pased of.C Taken, and burni. by the British.Taken.Taken.5 Taken, and callett the Aboukir.5 Taken and calletZ Le Guerrier.Le Franklin80L’OrientLe TonnantL’Heureux6074Le TimoleonLe MercureLe Guillaume Tell 80800 $ Blanquet, first C Taken, and calleZ contre-atniral. (_ the Canopus.800 Taken.7t.0 f Taken, and bum( by the British.I Drove ashore, &7C0 ^ burnt by her( own crew.CTaken, and burnl by the British.Villeneuve f800 ■? second centre- ' Escaped.7474 700I.e Generettx74La DianeLa JusticeL’Artimese484436Lamiral.700FRIGATES.300300250Escaped,l.a Serieuse36 250Escaped.Escaped.Escaped.( Dismasted,Z sunk.andFrench vanity never suffered so severely as bythis decisive battle, nor did it ever appear in amore ludicrous light, than when wincing underthe defeat of the Nile. Their Journalists, of theperiod, very gravely advanced an opinion, thatAdmiral Nelson had no orders to take their Heetin the manner he did, and that he would find somedifficulty in justifying his conduct ? ! ! Others as¬serted, that had it not been for the accident of theOrient blowing up, it would have been at least adrawn battle. And another declared, that had notNelson played them that scurvy trick of passingjidwt-tu tlieiu aud the land,, they wojild absph^lelyhave been victorious. Of this last opinion r>;aspoor limeys hirasejf.. In a lettei' to the ministerof Marine at Paris, he says, cc That he considershis situation so impregnable, that if the whole navyof England were to come to the attack, they couldmake ho impression on his line.”The rejoicings in Britain for this memorablevictory, were fully proportioned to its importance,every village, every hamlet blazed with the lightof triumph, illuminations followed illuminationsin the different towns throughout the united king¬dom. In short, the enthusiasm which prevailedwas universal.Ilallle of yHewtmdrm*Two years after this great naval battle, the ce¬lebrated bay of Aboukir presented another spec¬tacle, not less glorious. In the year 1800, a Bri¬tish fleet, having on board an army ot 13,000men, commanded by Sir Ralph Abercomby,were dispatched to Egypt to oppose the progressof the French arms in that country. This fleetcame to anchor in Aboukir Bay, on the spot wherethe battle of the Nile had been fought. On thearrival of the fleet, the bay presented a spectaclewhich might well have appalled the stoutest heart,and damped the,, courage of the bravest troops inthe world. The British soldiers saw from their.ships, and saw without quailing, the heat! of tKebay which rose like an amphitheatre, crownedwith cannon and covered with the enemy fromthe beach to the summit. Undismayed by thisformidable sight, it was determined that thetroops should laud in the very teeth of this array.16and the result he confided to the valour of llriti&lisoldiers. 'Accordingly, at two o’clock in the morning(8th March,) the troops destined to effect a landinggot into the boats. This division consisted o5230 men. So well planned were the arrangemenfs for the debarkation, that each boatplaced in such a manner, that when the tamlinwas effected, every brigade, every regiment, andevery company found itself with undivided num¬bers in its proper station. Thus, every man sawi|that, although he had changed his element, fronthe sea to the shore, he was surrounded w ith hiscomrades and friends, a circumstance which in-|ispired the men with confidence and courage. Thiarrangement however, could not he speedily com¬pleted ; the morning was partly far advanced before the whole were got in readiness to start from!the ships, which was to be done simultaneously, aiuby a preconcerted signal. A little before nineo’clock, all the soldiers were in the boats; in thesethey were placed though closely, yet in the utmostorder, every man bein<£ seated with his musketresting between his legs, whilst just room enoughwas left for the seamen to work the oars. Nothing could equal the intense interest of the sceneat this particular moment. On the sea innumer¬able boats filled with troops, whose glittering e-quipments- imparted magnificence to the spectaclewere seen ready to dash upon their opponentsWhile the dark lines of the enemy rose above eachother in many rows, occupying the whole front ofthe rising ground, which now bristled with French!bayonets; lower down on the beach was placedstrong body of cavalry in an extended line, readto charge the moment the British troops shouldland. At nine o’clock, the anxiously expected signal at length was given, and the boats sprang for-ITrard midei the order* of tlie HonourableVlexandfr Cociiiane. The seamen straining:vcry nerve, but at tbe same time moving in suchoncert, tliul no boat got a-head of the other,^very thing had been hitherto conducted withlie utmost silence, the soldiers sat immoveable inhe boats, and without exchanging a word, intent-y but fearlessly, gazing upon the terrible arraym the shore. The enemy again, having complet¬ed their preparations, awaited in silence the ap->roach of their assailants. Now, however, judginghat the line of boats bad come within the rangeif their guns, they opened a tremendous lire fromheir batteries in fro«U and from the castle of A!>-mkir in flank. Till that moment they did notidieve the attempt was serious, or that our troops;ould be so fool-hardy as to hazard such an at-:empt on -such lines and defences as they main-.ained. As the boats approached the shore, a fire)f nnisquetry from 2500 men was added to showersjf grape and shell'', which fell in such quantitiesimongst the boats, that their effects upon the sea>n that occasion, has been compared to the ebiil-itions of a boiling pot. Undismayed by this sal¬utation, the boats continued to advance with thegreatest order and regularity, w hich was so admir-ibly maintained, that every prow touched the beachnearly at the same instant. They were now, andbefore they had time to land, charged by theFrench cavalry, who w't'i’e seen hacking the menin the boats. But the scene was shortly changed,in a few minutes the British soldiers leaping intothe water, formed upon the beach, and, as a com¬mencement, nearly annihilated the cavalry whichbad first annoyed them. Scarcely one of thesereturning to boast of their temerity. As an irre-enhir fire however would not only prove inetfect-ISvia!, but have created contusion in the ranks, tfrw|men Mere ordered not to load, but to rush up thill1face of‘ the bill, and charge tire enemy on the sum Kmit. The ascent was steep, and so covered with loosdj!sand, that the soldiers every step they advanced J-sunk back half a pace. Delay was thus added t(|ldanger, and the men reached, with exhausterstrength, the point where the greatest effect was|required. As hesitation in such circumstanceqi*would have proved ruinous, they instantly rushetajjup the hill, and reaching the top before tbeiiiantagonists could again load, drove them from tlveirSIposition at the point of the bayonet. A squadron <of cavalry which had advanced to attack the 42di 'regiment after they had driven hack the infantryimmediately opposed to them, was instantly repul-'sed M'ith the loss of their commander. The partyof the enemy, who had deserted their guns, havingpartly formed in rear of the second small sand hills,kept up a scattered fire for some time, but on theadvance of the troops, who gallantly charged upthe hill, though sinking to the knees in the loosesand at every step; they again fled in the utmostconfusion. Thus was decided one of the mostbrilliant achievements in the annals of British war¬fare- Within the space of a very few minutesafter the landing of our troops, the face of the hillwhich fro uteri the bay, and which had exhibitedsuch a formidable array, was completely clearedof the enemy, and its summit gained. The prin¬cipal loss of the British, which amounted to 102killed, and 515 wounded, was incunred while in ithe boats, and when mounting the hilt. In both ieases, they were exposed to the enemy, withoutbeing able to make any defence ; when they hadgained a position where their courage, and firm¬ness, and courage was available, the loss sustained ;tvas trifling,—— - • • •—— ~ i-' 19,i By tho great exertions of the nary, the whole’tny was landed the same evening, and for threeays thereafter, was engaged in landing stores andirovisions. This necessary delay enabled the en-!|uy to collect more troops, so that the British onsaving forward in the evening of the 12th, foundtem strongly fortified among sand hills, andIra trees, to the number of more than 5000 in-tntry, 6o0 cavalry, and 30 pieces of artillery wellppointed. On the morning of the 13th, the■oops moved forward to the attack in three co*t*mns of regiments; the 90th, or Perthshire regi¬ment, forming the advance of the first column ;nd the 92d, or Gordon Highlanders, that of thel-^cond ; the reserve, inarching in column, coveringbe movements of the first line, and running par¬allel with it. When the army had cleared theate trees, the enemy quitted the heights, and withreat boldness moved down on the 92d, which byhis time had formed in line. The French open-id a heavy fire of cannon and musquetry, whichbe 92d quickly returned, firmly resisting the re¬peated attacks of the French line, supported as itiras by a powerful artillery, and singly inaintain-ug their ground till the line came up. At the,ame time, the French cavalry with the greatestmpetuosity charged down a declivity on the 90thlegiment. This corps standing with the coolest'intrepidity allowed them to approach within fifty; ards, when by a well directed fire, they so com-luletely broke the charge, that only a few reachedibe regiment, and most of these were instantlyayoneted; the rest fled to their left in the;featest confusion. The 90th regiment, being aorps of light infantry, and equipped with helmets,vere mistaken for dismounted cavalry, and theq’jiemy believing them out of their element, at-20tackcfl with the more boldness as they exprctrless resistance. The two divisions now formeline, the reserve remaining in column to cover thright flank. The whole moved forward in this otier, suffering from the enemy’s flying artillerwhich, haviugsix horses to each gun, executed theimovements with the greatest celerilv 5 while thBritish with only a few hadlv appointed cavalrand no artillery horses, had their guns dragged b’jlsailors, and occasionally assisted by the soldiers i|through sands so loose and so deep, that th*|wheels sometimes sunk to the axle. Yet slow afthe movements were, the enemy could offereffectual resistance, as our troops advanced ancretreated to their lines in front of AlexandriaThese lines Sir Ralph Abercromby determined tforce. To accomplish this important object, Gen.,eral Moore with the reserve was ordered to the!right, and General Hutchinson with the second I,line to the left, while the first line remained in thejcentre. From the formidable and imposing appearance of the enemy’s defences, this seemed abold attempt.Not knowing their relative positions, or whe¬ther after they should betaken they could be main¬tained without proper artillery, if the one commanded the other, our commander found it neces¬sary to reconnoitre with care. In this state of;doubt and delay, the troops suffered exceedinglyfrom a galling fire without having it in their powerto return a shot, while the French had leisure totake a cool aim. On this trying occasion, the in- itrepidity and discipline of the British remained un-shaken. Eager to advance, but restrained till it 'cptiid be done with success, and the least loss oflives, they remained for hours exposed to a firethat might have shaken the firmness of the hot21•bops. Tlte difficulties of the attack were found■b be insurmountable, and they were ordered to re-re and occupy that position, which was aftei-fr-ards so well maintained on the 21st March, and>. which they avenged themselves for there pre-.-nt disappointment. On that memorable dayie whole British army was under arms at threefclock in the morning, the enemy occupying arong position in their front. No movement bow¬er, took place on either side for half an hour;i the end of that interval, the report of a musket,>11 owed by that of some cannon, were heard onie left of the line. This seemed a signal to theneiny, who immediately advanced and got pos-*ssion of a small picquet, occupied by part ofregiment. All ranks now felt a presenti-ent, that the great struggle was at hand, whichMas to decide the fate of Egypt. General Moore,ho happened to he the general officer of t)ie[ght, galloped off to the left the instant lie hat!card the firing. Impre>sed with the idea that thislias a false attack, and that the real one was hi-i tided for the right, he turned hack, and had hard-reached his brigade, when a loud hurra, secotkf-I: by a five of mnsquetry, announced the real intert-i)ii of the enemy. The morning was unusallyLmidy, dark, and close. The enemy advanced inrence, until they approached the advanced pie-,a pacts, w hen they gave a shout and pushed forward,t tills moment, Brigadier General Oaks directedjfajor Stanley to advance with the left wing ofre 42d, and take part of the open ground latelyI cupied bv the 28th regiment, which was nowIdered within the redoubt, when they were soonjt" titer attacked by the enemy, who in the same in¬ant assailed with great fury an extensive ruinVcopied hv the British, and the wing of the High-22landers on its left. This impetuosity Was quit'checked hy a well directed fire from the trotwhich occupied their strongholds. Whilefront of the army was thus engaged, a columrthe enemy, preceded by a six pounder, camelently along the column, between the left of42d and the right of the guards. This colmwhich bore the name of the Invincibles, calculajits distance and line of march so correctly, tilwheeling to its left, it marched in between the ri^ iand left wings of the Highlanders, which wdrawn up in parallel lines. The morning was sso dark, that this close column got well advamt 'between the two lines of the Highlanders heft 'it was perceived, hut, when discovered the tregiments instantly faced inwards and fired up 'them. The enemy thus taken between two fir] "rushed forward with an intention of pushing i«the ruin, which was at short distance. W! !they passed the rear of the redoubt, the 28th facabout, and fired upon them; still they endeavouifto gain the ruins, not aware of their being oec!pied by the British, and rushed through the opiing followed hy the Highlanders, when the 56and 40th, also facing about in the same mantias the 28th, poured in a murderous fire upon (enemy. This combined attack proved decisiveiJthe fate of this unfortunate body, w hich had tiwittingly entrapped itself. The survivors, abfi200 threw down theirarms; and thus perished, w|those who bore a name which had been carriiin many a hard fought field. After this Fran ‘had no longer her Invincibles. The first rankthe 42d, the rear having followed the Invincibinto the ruins, were now hotly engaged with Kenemy, and a great additional force was also scadvancing. To oppose these, the Highland*2S>were ©rdered eut of the* rutni, they foraied line,:charged.the enemy, ami at the point of the bay-■ onet, drove them back with great km. Encour¬aged by the commander-in-chief himself, who,lin admiration of their bravery, and to excite themito future exertion, cailed out, “ My brave High-danders, remember your country, remember yourforefathers.” The appeal was not in vain; theenemy as we have already said, were repulsed.The battle had now continued with various vi-irisitudes and changes of positions, on the part ofshe contending armies for five successive hours,it was now eight o’clock in the morning, but thejnemy though repulsed at all points, still present-;?d a formidable appearance. They continued aHeavy cannonade, from which the Highlanders iaparticular suffered severely, being posted on a level'iece of ground. The shot rolled after striking andarried off' a file of men, at every successive re-lound. This was more trying to the courage andliscipline of the troops than the former attacks;jujt the trial was supported witli perfect sUadi-ess, not a man moved from his position except) close up the opening made' by the shot which;assed over the first line,, struck in front of the•cond, and did dreadful execution. As a last ef-rt, the enemy pushed forward some sharp shoot-( 8, but at the first fire from a 24 pounder placedt the redoubt, they began to retreat with great(lerity, and before a fourth round was discharged,ey had tied beyond reach.In a furious charge of cavalry* General Aber-pmby received his mortal wound. He was alonefar the redoubts, when some French dragoons,(netrated to the spot, and he was thrown from; horse. From the tassai of his sword, the mankt rode at him, and endeavoured to cut him down,l21must lirtVe bern an officer. This sword, fioH eVer,the vetrean general seized and wrested from hitbefore lie could affect his destruction ; and at tlisame moment, this daring assailant was bayoneteiby a private of the 4-2d. Sir Ralph only Coplained of a contusion in his breast, supposed tdhare been given, in the scuffle, by the hilt of thsword, but was entirely ignorant of the momenhe received the wound in his thigh, which occaStoned his death. After this wound, Sir Sklne)Smith was the first officer that came to the general, and from him received that sword which thlatter had so gloriously acquired from the Freudofficer. The cause of this present was the genral’s observation, that Sir Sidtlev’s sword had beebroken.About ten in the foreTinort the aetimt was terhiinated ; while Sir Rulph Aber'crombr never quitited thebiMferv he retired to. Hut as he Continuewalking about, many officers bad no suspicion chis being wounded, but from the blood trieklindown his clothes. At length getting faint, he wtput in a hammock, and conveyed to a boat, whircarried him on board Lard Keith’s ship, being a’enmpanied by bis friend Sir Thomas DwyeThe battle was fought by the right of thealone. The whole British army, reduced by tilactions On the 8th and »3th, by the men left !care of the wounded, the absence of the 9dd reft’mimt the marines and dismounted dragoons, clnot yield the effective force of 10,000 men incltning 300 cavalry ; vet It must be rememlKrred thit was only the half of this number that contestwith the whole united force of the enemy. Tfield of battle in front of the British works beiivery contracted the killed and wounded presenlia distressing spectacle, Near 1700 French400 horse* were found on the field.