The cruel Father ; To which ara added, An old woman clothed in gray. AND My heart with love is beating. Edinburgh : Printed for the Booksellers. 1824. THE CRUEL FATHER, A Lady's daughter 1h the weit, about the age of twenty, And she had sweethearts Of the best, both Ltrds and Squires in plenty. But she ador'd her father’s clerk, above all aten of honour. But sfce aeor’d her father's clerk, and she would have no other. Her father oft-times to her said, when he alone did meet her, Do you mean to disgrace our blood, you fond and foolish creature ? To go and many with a sl«ve, that has neither birth nor breeding. Sure I no portion will you give, T if this be your proceeding. © than honoured father, the reply^ I pray yoli use your jjliasvife," For I adors my dearest joy above aU worfaiy trea.tue. V. i'h him I mean to live Bird die, to bint I have consented Kind heaven will our want* tupply, with that we’ll be contented. Her father ip a ptuion flew, and Unearned to deatroy her, If that her folly she’d pursue, no clerk should e’er enjoy her. O then, she said. He must and will, although you be offended : When from my ?oininn vo * I fail, pray let my life be em ed. Upon the table in the room, a fowling piece did ly, Her father in a passion flew, and straight at her let fly. It lighted on her youthful breast, and she fell down before him. These were the last words that she spoke, for ever I'll adore him. When he had seen what he had done, what have I slain my daughter ? His rapier thpn he drew out forth, . and slew himself toon alter. Her mother came into the room, and both she stood a viewing. With grief her tender heart did break, ambition was th$ir ruin. Her lover c»mo amongst the rest, with haniie io sorrnvr bringing, And from her fair y' -ufb t ui breast, the blojd he then saw rpriaging. How could her father be to severe! why go severe ^nd cruel ? Could not feH tbe fault or me, and my deare»t j wel f The beauty of all western parti, who daily did adore me ; Nay, I may say the best of heart*, lie* bh eiing now before me O how can I presume to live, all in thii world behind h^r ! No, no, one fatal stroke i’ll give, perhaps then I may find her. Down ia the silent ihades be’ow, where b^ering lovers wander; Still s curing out sad grief and woi, they daily did ly under. A tword be from hi* side drew out, and slaw himself sooa after, Juit like two loval lover* fair, the^- died hath together. Th y bo'h wrr<3 bu'ind in one grave. 5 ^4^ M»y God preserv« all you that love, and send you no such trial. AN OLD WOMAN CLOTHED IN GREf. AN old woman clothed is grey hsa a daughter was charming & yOiwg, But she was deluded astray, by Roger’s falsa flattering tongue 5 # With whom she often had been, abro»d in the meadows afed fields; Her belly grew up to her chin, her ipirit sunk: down to her heelr. At length she began for to puke her mother posses>ed with feat: She gave her a gentle rebuke, and cry'd. Daughter a word in ybfir ear I doubt you' ve been playing the fool, . wh : ch many call Hay ding a ding, Why did you not follow mv rule, and tie your two toes in a string. O Mother ! your counsel I took, but yet I was never the neir : He won my heart with a false look, and h r s words se enchanted mine ear. That your precepts I foo« did forget* he on too, and wont have his tcope, v it is out a fully to fret, tis done, aad for it there's ne he’p. Then who is the father of it! come tell me wii>u>ut more delay ? For now I am jm# ip the fiu t^ go aed hear what he will say. It is Ro^er, the damsel reply’d he call d me his o/b pretty bird, And said that I should be his bri ‘e, but he was not se goud as his word. What 1 Roger, that lives in the mile ? yes verllv. Mother, the same : What! Roger, that lives in the mill? I’ll hope to him tho’ I am lawe. Go fetch me my crutches with spead* and bring me my spectacles too, A lecture to him I wul read, shall ring h his ears thro’ and thrp** With that she went heping away, and went to young Hooge of the mill, On him she her crutches did lay snd cry’d.. You have ruin’d my Girl* By getting her dear maidenhead* ’tis true, you can no Ways deny, Therefor* I advise you to wed, and make her as honest as f, T heo what will you g’ve me ? quoth Hodge if ( take your daughter by hand ! B Will you make me the heir of yaur lod«^ your he uses, your money and land, With all your bans and ploughs, your cattle end money also. If so l will make her my spouse, speak up, fcre you willing or nb, * Then Goody took Hogde by the hand, let it be for to have and to hoH; I will mak* you the heir of my land, tny house:' , my silver, and gokj. Make her but your honoured wife, and yeu shall be Lord of my store, Whene'er i surrender my life, in esse it were forty times more. The bargain was presently struck, they wedded —rard this being done. The old woman wish’d them good Incfc being proud of her daughter and Son, Then, Hey for a Girl or Boy ; l0°k ' d w bie as H Ouche.a, The Old vVoman caoer d for j >y * and danc'd up a jig in her crutche . MY HEAR T WITH LOVE IS BEATING, My heart with love is beating, Transported by your eyes, For as there’s no retreating; In vain a captive flies. Then why such anger cherish ? Why turn the eyes away ? For if you bid me perish, Alas I must obey. Could deeds my heart discover, Could valour gain your charms. I’d prove mj self a lover Against a'world in arms. Proud fair thus low before you, A prostrate warrior view, Whose whole delight and glory Are center’d all in you. FiNIS. 