VERMIN KILLER;BEINGA COMPLETE AND NECESSARYFAMILY BOOK:Shewing a Heady Way to Destroy\ Adders, Badgers, Bugs, Birds of all sorts, Caterpillars,Earwigs, Fish, Fleas, Flies, Foxes, Frogs, Gnats, Lice,Rv _ -.T 1 /-i..  -o: :  -Prslo^atc TRnttj.y^ Mice, Moths, Moles, Otters, Pismires, Polecats, Rats,V Scorpions, Snails, Snakes, Spiders, Toads, AN asps,i Weasels, Worms in Gardens, &tc.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.■* J p3HTvriMnavis' YHAgaaoaM ci/a ^Taj^Moo a:HOO£E Y^IBUAIIyjon-toW. e$ \^nTl\ ^K,'!»7v. » ^\ipjT!ivZi,Kx:/r;qi(ste3 t«iot its lu rfniff .sguB «n9gfu$a tn:>LbA ^-.r.-rj: t9 '1-! ,t-ii ", . :H 'i r;^ • ' -l ^iJKwfo't ,6Siimsic. ,n ilO ^tfoM ,rriJol/. ,niK»««iws7/ tefaitoT <n u'ijS ,f (gfiiini ,8n-icpo A i'•ai? ,».iabigO ni snnoW tef9M9V/ ’■S .• ;f v 5A.'■ ' MHfrirar. '* •:;i■j: fl0* ■?< A J[!).ejraajuHXuoa r-mx KCii cjthirxf>«rTHEVERMIN KILLER.n-.iij ; Ji ilJiV xun Lnn socni? sJrTto prevent bugs breeding.Bugs are not only become troublesome at Londrm, onare got into some Countries ; and whereas, people thinkthey are bred of hogs, hair, wood, wool, cloth, and fbr,these things breed only lice, moths, and worms; bntbugs proceed from old feather beds, whereon has longlaid sick and sweaty people, which produces putrifiedsmells and vapours; so does close press beds that havenot the advantage of the pure air ; as also close rooms,where the air wants free egress and regress, from thesecauses bugs proceed ; and also consumptions, weaknessof the back, and such like diseases that people littlethink of. And if you observe, you shall never findthese creatures in shops, or where no beds are, or havebeen put. One way, therefore, to prevent them, is towash your rooms, and keep them very clean, and keepyour windows open in the day time, that the air maycome in, and in a morning lay open your bed-clothesthat the air may come in, and sun suck up the moisturecontracted in the night time ; this is a great preservativeagainst all vermin, as also of your health.HOW TO DESTROY HOUSE BUGS.Itf. Take gunpowder beat small, and lay some aboutthe crevices of your bedstead, and fire it with a matchabout your bedsteads, and keep the smoke in ; this do foran hour or more, and let the room, be kept close for somehours after. Or take sprigs of fern, and lay upon theboards, kills them.<(42d. Take a handful of wormwood and white-helle¬bore ; boil them in urine till it is half wasted, and washthe joints of your beadsteads with it.‘id. Burn brimstone under the joints of the beadsteadand creases where they lie, and they’ll come out pre¬sently, that you may kill them ; do this two or threetimes a week, and keep the room close.Ath. Take strong vinegar, and mix salt with it; thensprinkle your room. This prevents bugs and fleas, andis very wholesome in houses, or at sea ; so is rue, worm¬wood and rosemary wholesome to smell to, or vinegarsprinkled alone.5th. Take wormwood and mustard seed, bruise andboil them in water, a quarter of an hour, then add saltto the water, and wash your floor and bedstead there¬with ; it will destroy them and all other vermin.tith. Get a trap about a yard and a half long, ormore, if your bed is broad, and about half a yard indepth ; put it at the head of your bed to the bottom ofthe pillow, and in the morning they will creep into it;take it into your yard, knock it, and they will drop out,so you may kill them. They are made of wickers, bybasket-makers.To conclude, let your rooms be kept clean, set openthe window's when you rise, and lay your bed-clothesopen four or five hours, this is the most effectual way toprevent both bugs and fleas.LICE.Is#. Take butter unsalted, and boil it up with pepperto a salve ; then cut off the hair, and anoint the head",and put on a cap.2d. Take staves-acre powdered, and mix it amongthe hair, then tie it with a cap, and it kills them. Oroil and staves-acre.3d. Take aramanths (apothecaries sell it), boil it inlye, and wash the head : or take olibanum and as muchswdne’s grease, boil them together, and anoint children’sheads ; it kills lice.5NITS AND LICE IN THE HEAD.Take of bees wax an ounce, three ounces of olive oil,three drams of staves acre ; of these make a salve, andanoint; it kills both nits and lice.Take red orpiment and saltpetre, each a dram, louseherb two drams, mix them together with oil and vine¬gar, so anoint the head. Byrus.TO KILL LICE ON TREES.Through drought many trees and bushes becomelousy, as sweetbriar, gooseberries, &c. therefore fre¬quently wash them, or dashing them with water mayprove the best remedy.FOR CRAB LICE.Wash with the decoction of penny royal; or boilmaijoram in water, and wash with it; or the juice ofstinking gladon.FOR LICE IN THE EYELIDS.Rub your eyelids with salt water, or brimstone andwater, or with vinegar of squils, alum and aloes.TO KILL FLEAS.ls£. Take lavender and wormwood, and boil them invinegar well, and sprinkle your blankets with it; or sa¬voury laid in your chambers kills them.2d. Take unslacked lime and strew in your cham¬bers : penny royal wrapt up in a cloth and laid in yourbed, drives fleas away ; lay fresh once a week.3d. Mustard seed boiled in water, and the roomsprinkled with it. Arsmart (the hot sort) strewed ina chamber kills all the fleas.‘Ith. Soap lees and onions boiled together and sprinkledin the room, kills both them and bugs.5th. Marsh fleabane spread in your room, or burnt,drives away fleas and gnats. Culpepper says, that el¬der leaves gathered with dew on them, and laid in a0chamber, gathers all the fleas- thereinto, which you maykill or throw out of the window.6th. Rub a small piece of board Over with hogs grease,and all the fleas will gather to it iu the middle of theroom. .mu Dm; gJin fliod aJIM Ji ; InionsTO KJT.L FLEAS AND WALL LICE.Take the decoction of thistle and arsmart or cotoquin-tida, bramble, or colewort leaves, and sprinkle abont thehouse, drives them away, or anoint a stick with thegrease of a hedge-hog, and lay it in the room, and thefleas will gather and stick to it.TO KILL RATS AND MICE.1 st. Take ratsbane, powder it, and mix it with freshbutter, or make it into a paste with barley or wheat-mfcaland honey, and lay on trenchers or boards where theycome: they will eat it, and it makes them drink tillthey burst. It is a strong poison, therefore be verycareful in using it, and wash your hands after it. Orimsfacked lime and oatmeal mixed, and laid' on boardswhere they come, kills them.2d. Take oatmeal and powdered glass only, or mixthem with fresh butter, and lay where they come. Orfilings of iron mixed with oatmeal, or with dough oroatmeal flour, and lay where they do come.3d. Black hellebore and the seed of wild cucumbermixed with such food as they eat, kills them,—Or mixpowdered hellebore with wheat or barley-meal only,make into a stiff paste with hofiey, and laid where theycome, they eat it, it i» present death; but great car e nvnstbe taken, lest any thing they eat should be poisoned,4th. Take honey or mead, and make sl stiff paste withwheat or barley-meal; then mix the filings of iron orsteel with it, and throw it where they come, they willeat it, and it kills them.5th. Chips of cork fried in suet, and laid where theycome, kills them.ttTO HILE FIELD HATS AND MICE.In the dog days fKe fields are generally bare; theEfind out their holes, or nests, which are little and round,like an augurhole, and put hemlock seed thereinto, orhellebore mixed with barley ; they eat it greedily, so itkills them. 1TO DIUVE AWAY BATS OR REAR MICE.The smoke of ivy burned does......TO DOBSTBOY MOLES.1st. Take a head or two of garlick, onion, or leek,and put it into their holes, and they will rmr out as ifamazed, and so you may with a spear or dog take them.2d. Beat hellebore, white or black, and with wheatflour, the white of an egg, milk and sweet wine or me-theglin, make it into paste, and put small pellets as bigas a small nut into their holes, and they eat it withpleasure, and it kills them.3d. Take the bark of dogs cole, powder it, and mixit with wheat flour, or barley meal, or rye flour, andwith milk and wine make a paste, put some of thesepellets into their holes, and they will eat it, and it. killsthem,.Ath. Take marking stone and wild cucumber jwice„and pom- it into their holes,* Some set traps at themouth of their isolhs,5th. In places- you would nob dig nor break much,the fuming their links with, brimstone,, garlick, or otherunsavoury things, drives them away, and if you put adead mole into a common haunt, it will make them ab¬solutely forsake it.TO TAKE MOLES W'HEX YOU PLOUGH.ktf. Take with you a. large vessel full of water, andwhen you see any new mole holes cast up, being openedwith the plough, pour therein pitchers or large cans ofwater, and that will make them in a little time come8out, and thus you may destroy them in ploughed landor pasture ; in common land make trenches in springtime to catch them.2d. Some say that in gendering time, if you lead ordraw a bitch mole in a string along the ground, the buckwill trace her, and so you may catch them in a pot setin the ground.TO DESTROY WEASELS.Take sal armoniac, and beat it, and with wheat flourand honey, make it into a paste, with the white of anegg, and lay it in pellets where they come, and they eatit, and it kills them.WEASELS TO FRIGHT AWAY MICE.Put bells about his neck, and let him run about yourhouse, and he’ll frighten away all the mice. ’Tis theirnature to destroy mice, therefore some people love tohave them about their houses.TO DESTROY CATERPILLARS OPMANY KINDS.IsL Caterpillars destroy the leaves of trees, and devourcabbages and other tillage, and are generally the eflectsof great droughts. To prevent their numerous increaseon trees, gather them oft'm winter, taking the pricketsaway that cleave to the branches, and burn them.2d. When they are upon coleworts or cabbages, takesome salt water and water them with it, and it will killthem.'id. Our gardeners shake them off the plants in amorning betimes, for whilst they are touched with thecold offthe night, they easily drop down.Ath. The most hurtful is the wolf and calender worm,that lurk in the heart of flower buds, shutting them upthat they cannot open, which they consume ; the treesthat blow early, look as if singed by lightning; thosethat blow late are not so subject to this evil.bth. Take three ounces of wormwood, one ounce ofassa fcetida, steep and break them, and boil with fourpails of water in the air, because they are stinkingsmells, and when boiled, strain out the ingredientsthrough a linen cloth, and use it when cold at pleasure,before the bud be opened, and they will do no harm tothe tree ; you may also add other ingredients, as to¬bacco stalks, wild vines, colloquintida, or the like, andexpect very good issue.TO DE9TK0Y GREEN BUGS, THAT HURT GREEN PLANTSAND ROSE TREES.To kill green bugs in gardens, sprinkle the placeswhere they fix with strong vinegar, mixed with thejuice of henbane; or some water the plants haunted bythem with the cold decoction of mustard and laurel seedin water ; some quash them with their fingers, which isa good way ; or fleabane boiled in water and sprinkled,kills them.TO DESTROY VINE FRETTERS IN GARDENS, &C.Stick a rod half a foot high in the ground, with mugsor cups turned over the top of it, and you will find thatthey will creep under there for shelter, so you mayeasily kill them.AX UNIVERSAL REMEDY AGAINST ALL ANIMALS OFFEN¬SIVE TO FLOWERS.Democritus says, put eight or nine crabs in an earthenpot with water, and let them stand eight days in theopen air, then take of this water, and water your plantsin their infancy; repeat the same once in eight days,and you will find it effectual against all sorts of vermin.TO GATHER FROGS AND KILL THEM.Take a sheep, ox, or goat’s gaul, and bruise it by thewater side, and the frogs will gather to it.10TO PREVENT FROGS CROAKING.Set a lantliom and candle upon the side of the Wateror river that waters yonr garden, it is done. ToadsWill not come near sage if rne is planted about it.TO DRIVE SNAKES AND ADDERS FROMTHE GARDEN.1st. Wormwood planted in divers places, they willnot come near it.2d. Smoke the places with hartshorn, or lilv-roots,burning in a .fine pan, and they will fly from the place.ifr/. The roots of centaury laid about your ground,will make them depart; or lay deer suet about the place,and they will be gone.FOR A BITE OR STENT. OF A SNAKE OK ADDER.Take the juice of ash tree leaves squeezed into goodwhite wine or beer, and drink it, and wash with it, thencover the place stung with ash tree leaves, and it curesyou, says Agrippa.SNAKES, ADDERS, AND BLUE WORMS, &C.In April or May, lay fresh dung in places where Qreycome, and they will resort to it. In July or Augustturn up the dunghill, and you will both find their eggsand many of them, which destroy: do this two or threetimes in a summer.'PISMIRES, EARWIGS, AND OTHER VER¬MIN THAT HURT GARDENS.In gardens are July-flowers, which are subject toliarm, both by rain and the sun, and much watering,and from earwigs and pismires. The rain spots them ;the sun withers them by drying the ground too much:strong water spoils them, especially at the last of theirblowing; pismires gnaw the flowers, and make holes int>i« leaves ; earwigs devour the flowbrs, at least theleaves, that they fall out of the shell; to presen e theiu,let the «un fee upon them hut one hour ki the day, andthey will last long.PISMIRES AND OTHER VERMIN ABOUT ORANGE TREES ANDJULT-FLOWERS.Isf. Put here and there a glass, with water andhoney in it, wherein they will drown themselves six orseven will go a great way.2d. The smoke of the root of wild cucumber drivesthem away,3d. Musde shells burnt with storax, and beat topowder, strew7 the garden where they are, and they willall come out of their holes—then kill them.■Uh lu winter dig the hills, and take out the core,that it may be lower than the .surface of the earth, thatwhen you lay your turf down, Lt may he lower than theother ground ; it prevents ants returning, and the rainand frost coming, kills the rest..TO PRESERVE PLANTS FROM PISMIRES.Take the dregs of oil, and mix it with lupins, andanoint the bottom of the plants therewith..siom on suiod fern;TO DRIVE AWAY PISMIRES.Take brimstone and powder it, then let it stand till ithath coloured the water, then sprinkle the water on theliaMra. li") : '* F-f noJnod mIbT .V I.nioih tmvsKj I!■ ir ti bnr. ..l^ait ffev/ nisdt rjrihii;EAUTH and field mice, snails, andOTHER VERMIN THAT HURT TULIPS.1st. To preserve tulips from vermin, cover them withwooden frames four indies high, and do them over soclose with iron wires, that none of these vermin can getthrough to hurt them.2d. Set tiles, bricks, or boards hollow against thewall, pales. See. and they will creep under them forJshelter ; about Michaelmas they get to such places foisecurity the whole winter, except you prevent it by de¬stroying them in December/ which is the easiest, best,and surest way to destroy them.TO KILL FLIES.Treacle and water put into an earthen dish prettythick with treacle or honey, they will light in it andstick till dead. Or, dregs of sugar and water mixed,they will come to it and be drowned.THAT FLIES MAY NOT TROUBLE CATTLE.Boil bay berries in oil, and anoint them with it, andthey will never sit on cattle ; or, wet the hair of horseswith the juice of the leaves of gourds at Midsummer,and they will not molest them. If cattle are anointedwith the juice of arsmart, flies will not come near them,though it is the heat of summer.TO DRIVE OUT FLIES, SPIDERS, SCORPIONS, &C.Burn a hoop’s feathers in the room, and make asmoke, then these insects that smell the smell will begone, and come no more.TO PREVENT MOTHS EATING CLOTHESIsf. Take beaten pepper, lay it among your clothes,airing them well first, and it will prevent them.2d. Pieces of Russia leather put in boxes, preventsmoths and all other vermin.TO DESTROY MOTHS.About August they appear, and that mostly in thenight, and if you set a candle in an apple tree lighted inthe night, they will fly about it and burn themselves,and you will find abundance of them dead in the morn-ing.EARWIGS, WASPS, GNATS, HORNETS,AND FLIES.Earwigs are very numerous, and injurious to fruit,and the way to destroy them is, by placing hoofs, horns,crabs or lobsters claws on branches of trees, into whichthey will resort; early In the morning take them gentlyoff and shake them into a tub of water, or on theground, and tread on them. Or, cut a melon or apple,lay it to the ear, cut a hole in it, and lay on that side,and it will come into the apple.TO DESTROY WASPS.Put pieces of lighted brimstone rags into the waspsholes, where the nest lies, and presently fling a spadefull of earth over the holes.Wasps surging.Apply a copper half-penny, and hold it for a littlespace, and it will ease the pain and prevent swelling.TO DESTROY WORMS.1st. Water wherein the leaves and seeds of hemp issotlden, sprinkled on the earth, brings them out.2c?. Sea water sprinkled on the ground, kills them.Or salt and water made into brine, and sprinkled on theground. Some say, soot strewed on the ground kiltsthem. Others commend chalk and lime strewed on theground.TO DESTROY WORMS IN GARDENS, &C.Water your bed with the brine of salt meat, and itkills them ; or water your garden with a strong lixiviummade of ashes ; or lay ashes or lime about any plant,and neither snails nor worms will come near it; as themoisture weakens, you may renew it. Some smoketheir holes with ox or cow dung; or the mother of oi1sprinkled on their holes, kills them.TO DESXaOY- WO»«S Uf ' -\ASLay a sea onion about the trees, to preserve themfrein wtums;, if theyjcomeiiatuEally, hull’s gall, or hog'sdung iniugled with nnan’s urine, and poured to the roots,destroys them ; but if itliey are hard to destroy, thebark must he digged into with a brass pin, or such liketool, and tended till tire point takes upon the worms,and drive them from the place; but where there is aplace ulcerated, stop it with ox-dung. An apple treeplant, the root being anointed with bulls gaD, they andtheir fruit will be free from worms.—Mizaldus.Z-iTHAVr YokxKlQ OT. „ 9jll , POLECATS. VJ1 st. If you can conveniently have a channel about yourpigeon house, and that will preserve them and all otherfowl, for no beast of prey will take the water.2d’. Some make a dead fall to take them, which ismade of a Square piece of Wood, weighing forty or fiftypound ; they bore a hole in the middle of the upper side,and set a crooked hook fast in it, also they set fourforked stakes, fast in the ground, and there lay twosticks across, on which sticks lay a long staff to holdthe dead fall up to the crook, and under this crook theyput a short stick, fasten a line to it, and this line mustreach down to the bridge below ; and this bridge youmust make about five or six inches broad. Then seton both sides of this fall, hoards or pales, or hedge itwith close rods, and make it ten or twelve inches high;let the passage be no wider than the fall is broad.. |„r / „r BAJ)iGEJR.Sf. , . . —J1 DUB ,li59fil JI6A ioOTTli) 911j nil H hod HIOT( tslc //Badgers are pernicious creatures, and destroy youngiambs, pigs, and poultry. Some make a pitfall aboutfive feet deep, and four long, make it narrow at the topand bottom, and wider in the middle ; then cover it withsome small Sticks and leaves so that he mav fall in whenhe comes on it; sometimes a fox is taken thus.13Hedgehogs always make thek cave or cabin contraryto the wind.tiiw liiia .i.'il lo ’nyo-ii-isb tcoyo yia gid))0 .VttTO DESTROY FOXES.riiiw nisnJ ; i •!. v icon aooit lo aVobi orftFoxes are great destroyers of lambs, poultry, geese,&c. to destroy which, take a ■sheeps paunch, and tie itto a long stick, then rub your shoes well upon it, thathe may not scent yonr sweaty feet; draw this paunchafter you as a trail, a mile or more, and bring it nearsome thick headed tree ; leave your paunch, and getinfo the tree with a gnn, and as it begins to be dark,you will see him come after the scent of the trail,where you may shoot him ; draw the trail if you can tothe windward of the tree.A SPRING TRAP FOR A FOX OR BADGER.jlBend down a stick in the wood, or set a pole In theground where lie uses to come, much like that set Upfor a woodcock, which liangs them up. To explain itbetter; tie a string to soane pole set fast in the ground,and to this string make fast a small short stick madethin on the upper side, with a notch at the lower endof it; then set another stick fast in the ground, with anich under it; then bend down the pole, and let boththe nicks or notches join as slight as may be t thenopen the noose of the string, ana place it in his path orwalk, and if you lay piecesuf cheese,flesh, or such like,it will -entice him that way.'i : <■ a j’jvA. HOOK TO TAKE A FOX, TIED TO A THEE OR GIBBET.This hook is made of large wire, and turns on aswivel, like the collar of a greyhound ; it is frequentlyused in catching wolves, hut oftener for the fox. Theyhang it from the ground so high that he must leap tocatch it; and bait it with flesh, liver, cheese, &c. andif you run a trail with a sheep’s paunch, as before di¬rected, it will draw him the more easily to the bail.TO TAKE AN OTTER.1st. Otters are great destroyers of fish, and willtravel in a night ten or twelve miles ; they lie underthe roots of trees near the water ; some take them withsnares, others with spears, and some with hunting dogs.2d. To kill them, lay near their haunts an eel slit onthe back, with some few corns of rats-bane put in theslit, then sew it up again; place the eel from the navelupwards out of the water, and he will eat it so far, butseldom farther, and it certainly kills him.Birds are no annoyance to the farmer, or gardens, forthey destroy more caterpillars, slugs, snails and othervermin, that do ten times more mischief than they do.TO CATCH FISH.Take ocuhis indies, and some wheat flour, and withsweet wine, milk or mead, make a stiff paste, thenmake pellets, and throw them where fish are, and youmay take them with your hands.—Or take assafeetida,flour, milk, and honey, make it into a paste, and baityour hook with it.TO CATCH EELS.Take sea sfeonewort an ounce, sea onions one ounce,mix together, and throw where eels come.TO TAKE CRAB-FISH.Slit a small willow stick, then put a frog in it, andthey will come to your hand. Or, cut frogs in pieces,then lay them in a basket and they will come into it.TO TAKE PIKES.Take what qnantity of blown bladders you will, andtie a line to the mouth of them, longer or shorter, asthe water is in depth ; bait your hook artificially, andthe pike will take it, and make you sport; the same17may be done by tying your line to the leg of a duck orgoose.TO TAKE A PIKE AS HE LIES SLEEPING AND SUNNING INFAIR WEATHER, WITH A LOOP OR NET.March and August is the best time. Take a longpole or rod that is light and straight, on the small endfasten a running loop of twisted horse-hair and silk, ormade of wire of a large compass, which gently draw onhim, and when it is live or six inches over his gills,hoist him up ; if it is a small pike, draw it not so faron, make no noise in walking or speaking ; if he lies sothat you can’t conveniently noose him, touch his tailwith the rod, and he wall turn as you please ; also witha hand net, putting it gently under water, guide it justunder him, and lift it softly till you just touch him, andthen do it as quick as you can.TO TAKE STOCK-FISH.Take green moss from the roots, boil it in oil, andmake it into baits.FISH TO FOX.Take hartwort and unslacked lime beat small, throw itinto the water when calm, and it will make them drunk,so that you may take them wTith your hands.TO TAKE FISH WITH YOUR HAND.1st. Get sheep suet and garlick, mix it with wheator barley flour, and with wine make it into a paste ;throw it into the water, and you may take fish wTithyour hands. Some take elder-leaves, wild marjoram,and thyme, all dried, and mix sheep’s blood with them:then dry them in an oven, and throw lumps into thewater.2d. Get unslacked lime, and mingle it with birthwortbeat small, and cast into the water, the fish will greed¬ily eat it, and turn on their backs, but they are not thew’orse for eating. Or with the juice of dragon-wort13anoint yonr hands, and. they will come to it. Or oil ofcamomile put to your bait does it.3d. Get a quarter of an ounce of oriental berries,cummin seed, and aqiia vitce, each a sixth part of anounce, cheese an ounce, wheat meal three ounces ; makelittle pellets and throw wliere the fish are.liio l.snta on* no ^inpiRxlg Inns Jdgrl n ladj bor ro alaqBIRD LIME.StufF prepared after different ways: the commonmethod is to peel a good quantity of holly bark aboutMidsummer, fill a vessel with it, put spring water to itlioil it till the' grey and white bark arise from the green#which will requite twelve horns boiling ; then take it offthe fire# drain, the water welllfrom it, separate the barks#liay the green; bark on the ground in some cool; cellar,,covered with any green rank weeds,.such -ds tlock tJustlev,hemlock, fyc. to a good thickness ; let it lie so fourteendays, by which tittle it will be a perfect mucilage ; thenpound it well im a stone mortar till, it becomes a toughpaste, and that none of the bark be discernible ;. nextafter Wash it well in some running stream, as long asyou perceive the least motes in it; then put it into anearthen pot to foment, scum it four or five days, as of¬ten as any tiling rises, and when no more conies, changeit into a fresh earthen vessel, and preserve it for use inthis manner. Take what quantity you think fit, put itin an earthen pipkin, and a third part of capons or goosegrease to it, well clarified,, or oil of walnuts, wlii'ch isbetter, incorporate them on a-gentle fire, and stir it con¬tinually till it is cold, and thus it is finished.To prevent frost ;■ take a quarter of as much oil ofPetroleum as you do goose grease, and no cold will con¬geal it.HOW TO USE BIRD LIME.When your lime is cold,, take your rods and warmthem a little over the fire ; then take your lime andwind it about the top of your rods, then draw your rods'it)asunder one from another, and close them again r con¬tinually plying and working them together, till bysmearing one upon another, you have equally bestowedon each rod a) sufficient proportion of lime.If you lime any strings, do it when the lime is hot andat the thinnest, besmearing the strings on all sides by-folding them together, and unfolding them again.If you lime straws, it must be done likewise when thelime is wry hot, doing a great quantity together, asmany as you can well grasp in your hand,, tossing andworking them before the fire till they are all besmeared,every straw having its due proportion of lime ; havingso done, put them up in cases of leather till yeit haveoccasion, to use them. -■/bow. 9ti, l flyl ii'ii yna bvnil io moitiooma aji JnrwTEE BEST WAY OF’ MAKING WATER BIRD-FLUE.Buy. what quantity you think fit of the strongestbird-lime you can procure, and was hit as long-in dearspring water till you find it very pliable*, and the hard¬ness thereof removed, then heat out the water extraor¬dinary well, till you cannot perceive a drop to appear,then dry it well; after this put it into an earthen pot,and mingle therewith capon’s grease unsalted, so muchas will make it run, then add thereto two spoonfuls ofstrong vinegar, a spoonful of the best sailed oil, and asmall quantity of Venice turpentine ; this is the allow¬ance of these ingredients, which must be added to, everypound of strong bird-lime as aforesaid. 1Having thus mingled them, boil all gently over a smallfire, stirring it continually, then take it from the fire, letit cool; when at any time you have occasion to use it,warm it, and then anoint your twigs or straws, or anyother small things, and no water will take away thestrength thereof.This sort of lime is best for snipes and. fieldfares.. • T(r , . rOF TAKING SMALL BIRDS, WHICH USE HEDGES AlfD-BUSHES, WITH LIME TWIGS.The great lime-bush is best for this Use, which you20must take after this manner; cut down the main branchor bough of any bushy tree, whose branch and twigs arelong, thick, smooth, and straight, without either pricksor knots, of which the willow, or birch tree are thebest; when you have picked it and trimmed it from allsuperfluity, making the twigs neat and clean, then takethe best bird-lime, well mixed and wrought togetherwith goose grease, or capons grease, which, beingwarmed, lime every twig therewith within four fingersof the bottom.The body from whence these branches have their r isemust be untouched with lime.Be sure you do not daub your twigs with too muchlime, for that will give distaste to the birds, yet let nonewant its proportion, or have any part left bare whichought to be touched ; for as too much will deter themfrom coming, so too little will not hold them when theyare there. Having so done, place your bush in somequickset or dead hedge near unto towns ends, backyards, old houses, or the like: for these are the resortof small birds in the spring time; in the summer andharvest in groves, bushes, or white thorn trees, quicksethedges near corn fields, fruit trees, flax, and hemp lauds ;and in the winter about houses, hovels, barns, stacks,or other places where stand ricks of corn, or scatteredchaff, &c.As near as you can to any of these haunts, plant yourlime bush, and plant yourself also at a convenient dis¬tance undiscovered, imitating with your mouth severalnotes of birds, which you must learn by frequent prac¬tice, walking the fields for that purpose very often, observing the variety of several birds sounds, especiallysuch as they call one another by.Some have been so expert herein, that they couldimitate the notes of twenty several sorts of birds at least,by which they have caught ten birds to another’s onethat was ignorant therein.If you cannot attain it by your industry, you mustbuy then a bird call, of which there are several sorts.21and easy to be framed ; some of wood, some of horn,some of cane, and the like.Having learnt first how to use this call, you shallsit and call the birds unto you, and as any of them lighton your bush, step not out unto them till you see themsufficiently entangle; neither is it requisite to run forevery single bird, but let them alone till more come, forthe fluttering is as good as a stale to entice them more.You may take these small birds only with lime twigswithout the bush.Some boys have taken two or three hundred smalltwigs about the bigness of rushes, and about three incheslong, and have gone with them into a field where therewere hemp cocks ; upon the tops of half a score lyingall round together, they have stuck their twigs, andthen have gone and beat that field or the next to it,where they saw any birds, and commonly ;n such fieldsthere are infinite numbers of linnets and green birds,which are great lovers of hemp seed.And they flying in such vast flocks, they havecaught at one fall for them upon the cocks eight dozenat a time.But to return, there is a pretty way of taking birdswith lime-twigs, by placing them near a stale or twomade of living bats, placing them aloft that they may bevisible to the birds thereabouts, who will no sooner benerceived, but every bird will come and gaze, wonderingat the strangeness of the sight, and having no otherconvenient lighting place, but where the lime twigs areyou may take what number you list of them. But theowl is a far better stale than the bat, being bigger andmore easily to be perceived, besides he is never seenabroad but he is followed and persecuted by all the birdsthat are near.If you have not a living bat or owl, their skins willserve as well, stuffed, and will last you twenty years ;there are some who have used an owl cut in wood, andnaturally painted, with wonderful success.A SKCEET TO HINDER PIGEONS FROM QUITTING A PIGEONHOUSE.Take the head and feet of a gelt goat, and boil themtogether till the flesh separates from the bone ; take thisflesh and boil it again in the same liquor, till the wholeis consumed; bruise into this decoction, which is verythick, some potters earth, out of which you are to takeall the stones, vetch, dung, hemp, food, and com; thewhole must, be kneaded together, and reduced to a pasteor dough, which form into small loaves about the thick¬ness of two fists, and dry them in the sun or oven, andtake care it do not hum; when they are baked, laythem in several parts of the pigeon-house, and as soonas they are set there the pigeons will amuse them¬selves with pecking them, and rinding some taste there¬in, which pleases them, they will keep so close to it,that they will not afterwards leave it but with re¬gret. Others take a handful of salt which they candy,and afterwards put into the pigeon-house.' veil, vary Jaev duns ni guiyli yoir hirABIRDS.Get white orpiment, barley, wheat, or any othergrain that birds love, boil them together, and throwwhere birds come, and you may catch them presently,yet not the worse to eat.TO KEEP BIRDS FROM FRUIT.Hang a bundle of garlick on a branch of a tree, or :ay it on your com stalks, and they will not touch your „fruit. Some smear their tree branches with juice oi ;garlick.TO CATCH BIRDS.Get such seed as fowls love, mix it with grated onion,or juice of onion, and it makes them drunk.TO TAKE WILD GEESE.Take a tame duck or goose, with a string by the kg,23•where wild geese or ducks come, and strew in thatplace such seed or grain soaked in lees of wine ■, wherealso white hellebore is boiled, yon may take forty at atime ; it will quickly make them drunk: let not thetied goose or duck come to the seed. jniv/TO CATCH BIRDS.Take any corn, and steep it in wine lees and juice ofhemlock, and cast it to the birds, and it makes themdrunk presently. ; . iu. - - . > 1HOW TO TEACH BIRDS TO SPEAK, OR WHTSTtE TONES.Keep them in dark places, and play any tune to themfor half a year, or till the time that young birds takenout of the nest begin to sing,, and they will learn, ifcocks, any tune you please, and exceed a flageolet, es¬pecially a linnet, bull-finch* robin or goldfinch, &c. Andto teach jays, magpies, starlings, parrots &c. keepthem dark, and hungry, and talk often the same thingto them, by candle-light, or in the night time..TO SCARE CROWS, RAVENS, JACKDAWS, PIGEONS, SCC.Crows dead and hung up, much affrights them; butamong cherry trees, and other fruit trees, draw a linefrom tree to tree, and here and there fasten a blackfeather, and this will do.THE MANNER OF BAT FOWLING.Observe where birds roost in great numbers, as theygenerally do in hedges, or trees, then go in a dark night,one with a pole, and beat the contrary side, and two orthree be with you, t arrying long boughs ; and you mayeasily strike them down ; if among shrubs as in a wood,let one on each side beat at a pretty distance. Someuse nets, made like a racket at the end of poles, withwhich they are easily knocked down.TO TAKE SEA-PYES, CROWS, AND OTHER BIRDS.Get a minnow, tie a thread to its tail, and two small24sticks of osier across at the end of the thread, then limeyour twigs with birdlime, and lay them by the river onsome rush, watei leaf grass, or the like: then whenshe sees it, catches it up, and the lime twigs take herwings, and she drops presently. unb lo ^oog I*ii 'TO TAKE PARTRIDGE.Get sweet wine, and with wheat flour, make a paste,lay it in pellets where they come, and they will be soonfoxed, so you may take them with your hand. But ifyou put a little occulous indies to it powdered, it is thebetter.TO TAKE WILD DUCKS, GEESE, HERONS, SEA GULLS, &C,Drive a stake into the ground two or three feet long,just by the water-side, then take a strong horse-hairwith a large hook fastened to it, and bait it with fish,or frog, or guts, &c. and let your lines lie in the riverand they will swallow it, and so hang that you maytake them. Some lay in the same manner snares madeof horse-hair, and often catch them by the feet as theywim about.- BIRDS THAT ARE LOUSY.Anoint them with linseed oil cures them..ob Hiw aidi bim tT9diB9l