THELIFEO FROBINSON CRUSOE,O FrORKy MARINER.STIRLING:PRINTED BY C. RANDALL.i8ei.r( 2 )The Famous HhTory ofROBINSON CRUSOE.C H A P. I,Tlie Author’s Birth, he is fhipwrecked, buthaving bdtteEr Succefs in a ieccmd Voyage,,he enters on a third. In which he is takenby a Sallee Royer ; with the Manner ofhis Efcape, and getting to Brazil.TWAS born at York in the year 1632,mv father being a native of Breniin, andcoming over to Mull, merchandized till hegot an eftate, and fettled in YotkThough 1 was the youngeft of three broth¬ers my lather gave me fufficient learning toqualify me for the law ; but being of a ramb¬ling difpolition, l refolved to go to.fea, tho’my parents ufed all the perfuaftonsfth'ey couldngaitdl it ; my father particularly laying be-iore-me the great danger of truiting to the lea,and the hazard of meeting many flups ct war ;alfo the id fortune that had attended my eld-elf brother', who;, contFaTy to his inclination,purchafed a place in the army, and was uu-C 3 ):I fottunately killed; adding, withal, that Icou'd not reafonably expedl fuccefs, as I wentwithout hL blefling. But happening to meetan acquaintance, whofe father was mafterof a Ihip bound to London, t went with himon board unknown to my parents, and with¬out their bleffinq.We h..d no fooner left the Humber, to theWeft ward, but a tenible (form arofe, and a-i r fix days inceuant toil and ficknefs, our: fhtp funk ; but fome colliers faved tne crew,and by good fortune we landed at a place|J which is called Cromer, from whence we1 walked to Yarmouth, where we parted fromthe reft, and fo came up to London. Then,I -went on board a Guineamm, having obtain¬ed of my relations about forty pounds, and mycaptain, who eneemed me as a companionmore than a common failor, inftrudted mein laying it out, and returning from the voy¬age I cleared 200IMy captain died foon after my return, andI embarked again with the mate, but with dif¬ferent fuccefs ; for we were taken by a SalleeRover not far from the Canary Tflands, whocarried ns as flaves into the port; but the cap¬tain taking a liking to me, did not fell me ashe did the reft ol the men, but kept me as his. own Have.A young Morrocco boy and I ufed to rowhis boat and divert him with ftfhing, and at c-* thtr times he vouchfafed to truft me with hisboat along with a kinfman of his to catch fifti.His name was Muly, and the boy was calledXury,I perfuadecl them to take fire arms v/Iththem to (hoot curlews, and took a good (loreof provifions. When we got out to fea, [took an opportunity to tiirow Muly over-boardthreatening to (hoot him if he offered to comenear me.We failed five days, (feering South by Eaftalong the (hore ; my man Xury and l killedfome creatures, which were good food, andfforing ourfelves with frefh water, wt failedwith great difficulty till we made the Cape deVerd and alio other iffands.At length by good fortune I efpied a fail,which happened to be a Portuguefe (hip, themaffer of which took us up, bought the boyXury of me, and afterwards landed me at Bra¬zil.Here I ferved a planter for fome time, andtelling the captain of the (hip that I had fomemoney in England, he procured it for me.Here ( alfo purchafed a plantation, and livedfour years, daily increafing in riches.CHAP. II.Our Author attempts his Fate again, and iscaff away on an unknown lil-md His Jour¬nal of incidents and a new. Method of ma¬king an Almanack.HE merchants being refolved to fit out a(hip for Guinea, to (lock our plantati¬ons with negroes, t agreed to go commander,making my will, and appointing the captainwho laved my life to be my heir, if I (houlddie in this my voyage.( 5 )I failed the firll of September 1650, thefame day eight years f had left my parents.But we had not long been off the illand on theKail, before a terrible Itorm arofe, which held,twelve days.together, and having made ihiftto get into our boat, the uaves overfet us nearthe (bore, and all the men periihed except my-felf, who was violently driven afhore as itwere by force.You may be fure I thanked God for this de¬liverance, feverely reproaching myfelf for dif-obeying my father',s commands, and withal,1 his Ipeech that ii 1 went as I did without hisI bf fling. I could not expeft to have any fuc-1 cefs, made my forrows the greater, and whenf J confldered 1 had no profpect but that of itar-1 ring, or being devoured by wild beaits, my1 grief vas ihcrealtd, having no weapon but a] pip , a tobacco Itopper, and a knite-that night l' look up my repofe in a tree,s and the next day finding a tpring, l drank/ very heartily thereof, taking a quid of tobac-1 co to keep me from (larving. When the iform) was abated, 1 found the Ihip had been drovei very near a rock and the boat twelve milesij cfl ; but tnere being a large inlet of water be-: tween me and the boat, 1 ventured to ivvim1! off to the Ihip, where 1 found plenty ol rum,and other honors. t hen 1 made a raft oi tim-d her, and taking two piffols, twm low ling pieces,1 feme horns of powder, a bag ol fhot, two laws,: two hammers, and and an ax. 1 put them all: cn a raft, ami fo floated fale to ihore.In order to fatisfy myfelf, l took a furveyfrom a mountain, and iound mytelf upon am( 6 )ifland encompafied by the ocean. Thus fie-cefllty made me begin to make a hut with thethefts and planks that he had brought onfhore.I went on board again the next day, andbrought away, three bags of nails, a fcrew-jack, a grindftone, and a hatchet; and inihortj by degrees I got what was neceffaryout of the fliip, and proceeded to finifh my ha¬bitation.My tent I then covered with a fail which lhad on fhore, and I barricaded the door withmy cheft.Having feveral good books, particularly thebible. I ufed to comfort myfelf that Providence,had not only faved my life, but that i had thewreck of the (hip to maintain myfelf with infolitude.I had got no pen and ink, but with a knife |I cut the letters on a poll that I had ereftednear the ftone, viz. I L iNDED HERESEPT. 30, 1665 ; and on both ftdes of the Spoll I daily made a notch with my knife, thefeventh notch being as long again as the reft,by which 1 preferved a calendar of every week,month, or year. When l ufed to think ofmy condition, I rejoiced I w as alive, and thatProvidence had enabled me to get a fuften-ance as long as I lived. And here I muft givean extraft of my Journal.( 7 )' ( ■ . . * •JOURNAL,SEPTEMBER 30th. 1666, I was caft u-pou this ifland, and called it the Iflandof Defpair.From Oftober 1, to November the 7, mynh overfet, but recovered it at low w'ater. Ie npl jyed my time in fecuring my goods.Shot a' ihe goat. Erected my tent under aa rock. Made a ftrong fence around me.Shot two wild ducks and one wild cat. Stow¬ed my powder.From Nov. 17, to Jan. 14 I made mefhelves dreffer, and a table killed and wound¬ed fome goats, one wounded I cured andbrought up tame* I employed myfelf in build¬ing a wall around my hut. In fearching theilland, and taming wild pigeons, which were•excellent food- I then got a little oakum forthe wicjc, and made myfelf candles.'J So far for my Journal.C H A P. III.Of the feveral Difcoveries he made in theIfland, and his Might on his finding it vf.fited by the Indians.ABOUT this time, a mofl remarkablething happened, for finding a bag fil¬led only with the hulks of corn, and throw¬ing it away, it fprung up, and afforded jnegood provifion for many years.Being fettled, and having made me a latL( 8 )der, for I had no door, to afcend my wall,where I placed fire-arms, as though it were acaftle. Here I was furprifed by an earthquake,which gave me three fudden Ihocks, but it didme no harm.It would be too tedious to mention everyparticular circumftance during the year, tihall only obferve, that filhing and Ihootingwere my pkafures, and conremplating on theword of God, and praying, were my employ¬ments on the fabbath. At iaft 1 fell Tick ol afever, which after fome time left me, ior u hichI returned thanks to the Almighty Being. Ihad not been at this place ten months, when Lhad the curiofity to view the ifiand and ac¬cordingly afeending a hill, i efpied pU afatUmeadows on the other fide, and coming therefound the calfava root, which the Indiansmake bread of; alfo plants of aloes, and iu-gar canes. I went farther, and found theplace adorned with mod: beautiful wood?,.Getting into a tree, 1 reded there that night.The next day’s journey I lound the countrycharming, and often wilhed my habitationthere.In about a month’s time I came back to mycallle, where I found my cat with three kit¬tens. Befides her I had a dog and a parrot,which l taught to call Poor Robinfon Crufoe.A great part of my time was employed in low¬ing corn, and making earthen pots to hold wa*ter.One day as I walked out, my dog fiezed akid, which I tamed j but though I wanted no*( 9 )thing, my heart was alinod broke to thinkwhat a place I was to remain in.When my cloaths were worn our, I mademe a iuit of the fkins of four footed animals,and a cap of the fame. It would have madeany one fmile to fee me thus accoutered,with a naked fword by my fide, andtwoguns■j on my (boulders.When I had been there about five or fixyears, I made me a little canoe, refolving toil fail about theufland ; but i narrowly eleapedI being loft ; and recovering the bland again,I laid my canoe a fide, and being tired, laidmjfell down to (letp, but was awaked by aI voice calling, Where are you Poor RobinfonCrufoe ? Where have you been ? 'i his (foundto be-my parrot, whom 1 learned to talk thislanguage.As 1 was one time vifting the boat, I efpiedon the fta-ftiore the print of a man’s loot,from which I concluded, in a fright, that itmult be occafoned by the devil, or that thet favages had certainly landed in that place, thei latter of which 1 wa*. foon confirmed in, when, 1 law feveral fkulls and bones that the Indians!had left behind them.Upon this I refolved the next time theycame to dcflroy them ; but then my mind wasmuch diftuibed with the thought of murder.However afterwards I always went out armed,and going out one morning as cuftomary, I e-fpied on the Urore, two canoes, with eleven fa-! vages going to land, having with them anotherfavage, whom they were going to kill and eat.? lasn infant the victim jumped up, and ran( 10 )ior his-!;ife t-owD.i>]s iny caftle ; and there beinga little creek to p Is, he jumped in and fwamit in about thirty ftrokes1 immediately1 beckoned to him that ran a-way, eut-he hdver having fecn a white man•before, was as much afraid of me as he was ofthem. However, I ran between them, andknocked one. down, and coming towards theother, he was going to (hoot at me with a bowand arrow, But I killed him with a fowling-piece.The poor favage that fled, feeing his ene¬mies fail, flood flill, to whom I made figns tocome to me ; and at laft he came trembling, !laying his head at my feet in token he would fbe my Have for everThe fnvage whom I had knocked down was *not dead, which being difeovered by thewretch 1 had juft; redeemed, he defired bydumb tokens, that l would lend him my iwo-rd,which l accordingly did, when he cut off* hishead, and then returned me my ('word again.JjI then took the fellow home, who was verycomely and wed made, and prepared a lodg-|ing for him without my fortification, not dar¬ing as yet to truff him rob near me.1 named him Friday, becaui'e on that day Itook him ; and indeed he proved a moft. trueand faithful fervant ; and learned of him byfigns, his way of life. At laft: he underftood«iy language, and work eft at any thing 1 com¬manded him. 1 cloatlVed him as niylelf wascloathed, and fed him with the fame victualsas 1 eat myfelf. When he faw me going toIhqot, he would fall before me, and by figns |( !I >pray me not to kill him. And at other timeshe ieemcd to bonder the gun itfelf did notfhoot hirn, as thinking it underiiood him.In fliort, I at bit became familiar to him,and taught him as.well as-f could the know¬ledge of God and his fon Jefus Ohrifi ; anddefcribed to him the religion, manners, andcuflcms of other nations^ And I believe inmy confcience the riches- of all the univeifewould not have tempted him to for Take me,I was now in the year of my captivity,when fending out my man.Friday to ftek fameturtles upon the Ihore, he fp^eddy returned,and told me there were two or three canoescoming there to land It was not long beforewe difeovered they had brought a poor Chrift-ian (lave to be facrificed, which I perceivedthrough a grove, where Friday & I were hid ;fo refoiving to fet him free, We fired and kill*ed three, and wounded five ; than comingdown upon them, we killed two. and wound¬ed another, and the reft efcaped in their ca¬noes.The poor victim vve then unbound, whofename was Chriltianus, aPortugeufe, who toldtold me, that he and fixteen Spaniards werefhipwrtcked, and five only efcaped in the boat;that they had concerted meafures how' to buildthem another veffei, to make their efcape in ;but he happened unfortunately to flray fromthe reft, and was taken prifoner by a parcelof favages, who had brought him over for afacrifice.There was alfo another victim lay in one ofthe canoes, whom I defired Friday to unbind.C 12 )when immediately the poor fellow kifled him,fung, hallooed, cried, laughed, danced, jump¬ed, and capered fo long that I could not getan' anfwtr irom him. At length he told meit was his father.1 took them all home, and entertained themas mv ful jecls.We kept upon our guard left any morecanoes fhould come, but there was no danger,for thofe that had elcaped. reported to the c-ther lavages, that the illand was inhabited byip'rirs, and would foon be burnt to alhcs Af¬ter feveral confiderations, I was refoived th'.tFriday, his father, and the Portuguele, Ihouldgo over in one of the canoes we had taken,and bring thole men over to dwell in the tfland.Accordingly they wait, after 1 had iurnilhtdthem with proviftons to fuftain them, and fire i.arms for their defence.C H A P. IV.1Of his return to York Or! re, where he marries jbut his Wife dying., and his reftlcfs Dilpo-lition continuing, he goes to lea once more.TAI1ING very impatiently for theirVV returning one morning eaily, Fridaycame lunning to me, faying. Mailer, theyare come.But through my perfpeftive gJafs I efpiedan Engljlh (hip at anchor, and the long boatcoming on fliore, and when they landed I lawthree unarmed and one bound, encompall’edby four or five jrnied.—  ( V3 >Friday immediatelv cried out, O mailer Imailer ! you lee Engliihinans eat prifoners aswell as lavage mans. At lafl I perceived theyleft the unfortunate hound man, and. thenrambled into the woods ; Upon which I drewnear to them, and afked what they were?They were at firfl amazed at my habit, but atlength one of them told -me that he was raaf-ter of the (hip, and that the failors had riotous¬ly rebelled againll him. Upon which I madehimpromifetwothings iflredeemed him Fir ft.That he Ihould not pretend to any authorityin the illand. Secondly, lie fhould tranfporcme and my man, gratis, to England.After this agreement, I furuifhed them witharms, and purfuing the five men, we foundthem alleep,The two men fired and killed one, andwounded another, who crying out for help,the captain bid him call to God for forgive-nefs, and then knocked him down ; the otherthree begging for mercy, the captain grantedit. on condition of their helping to recoverthe Ihip.The crew wondering they {laid fo long,lent their other boat out, and hallooing fortheir companions, they were anfwered fromone hill to another, till we decoyed them in¬to a wood, and then coming round to the boatwe knocked one fellow down that was in it,and then the others j ined us, and pulling upthe boat on the ground, the tide being out,we prepared to meet the others r turning,when immediately the captain Ihot, and killed( i4 )the'toatfwain, who was the ringleader cf themutiny.Oji this I advanced with ray army, myfelfCaptain General, Friday mv Li utenant Gen¬eral, and the reft-of my officefs rad foldiers,and called out to them to fufrender. which u-pon the promife of fparing their lives, theydid.In ftiort, at length we got their confent torecover the fiiip, and fo going on board,the captain fhot the pirate captain dead, themate fhot another, and then ti^e reft oT them .furrendered.Soon after the captain came on more, andthanked me for his prefervation, offering methe fhip at command.After due punifhment had been inflicted o:rthe offenders, taking my man Friday with me,together with my parrot and fome other re¬lics, I failed away in Dec. i63o having livedthere 28 years, 2 months, and 8 days andlanded in England the 18th of June 1690 jhaving not ieen ray own country in 35 years.When l came into Yorldlnre I found bothmv parents dead, and none of my family , but ; .two fitters living. The captain whom I hadfaved, acquainted the owners of the mannerin which I had faved the Ihip tit Ddoiate Ifland,arid they made me a prefent of 700I iI went afterwards tb L'ifbon, where I metthe Porrcguefe captain, who took me on board .on the African coaft. arid discovered rnyfeif,lie told me how ray plantation was improved,'but that it was in the King’s hands, it beingTupooled I was dead. He lea', me an hundredl A( *5 )moldores, which I returned Toon after, forin feven months! had an account of my eftate,which was iool. a year and 2000I. in money.After thefe mod wondf ,rul Providences, Iconcluded to return to my native country,my man Friday ftili attending me.Accordingly we fet out for t he city of Ma¬drid, being advifed to go to Calafs bv land,and travelling to Navarre and Pampeiena, wewere attacked on the road by two wolves anda bear.We came at laid to Thouloufe where wehad no fear of wild beads, and fo palling thro’France, l then took fiiipping, and landed atD over the 5th of January I had my bill punft-ualty paid me. I then fold my plantation*becaufe I would not go there and turn Papift.Soon after my arrival in England. I marri¬ed, and had two foms and two daughters, butmy wife dying, and my nephew coming fromfea drew me to make a voyage to the EaftIndies, which I accordingly did in the year1694, when I again vitited my ifl md, and in¬formed myfelf of what occurred fince my de-par; ure ; how the Spaniards had brought themto fubje&ion, with other p utiridars relatingto the battles with the wild ravages, anti ho vthey made a defcent upon the impn, andbrought off 11 men and 5 \Vonv.n, by whomthey trot children- I left thc^ a carpenter kalmitk, with ail kinds of ntceiTaties, promif-ing to fend them Englifh workmen, and otherthings.#^hjch was afterwards performed,And thus ends fuch g very remarkable chain,of Providence, as moil certainly bad fukm the( IV >world with great wonder and afloniflimen'%and deferves the perufal of all people, especi¬ally thofe who are inclined to learn the art ofpatience, in fubm?^on to the Divine will.And indefed the many miracles of this man’slife is very ftrange and furprifin^. The eventsby a ferious application, may be as examplesto others, and the wifdom oi Divine Provid¬ence, in all our circumftances. may be jufti-fied and honoured, let them occur when theywill.FINIS.