ASLIMPSE of GLORY;O R, AGofpel Difcovery of Emmanuel’sLANDBy the ReverendMr. JAMES FISHER,Who diflented from the Errors ofthe Kirk of Scotland, alongwith the Great Erskine, &c. Hewas then Minifter at Kincleven,and removed to Glafgow, wherehe ferved his Great Master, a-bove 36 Years, and died in Sep-! tember 1775*GLASGOW;tinted and Sold by J. and J. ROBERTSON,iu r1 r< t v" v -v r t tGLIMPSE of GLORY;O R, AGofpel Difcovery of Emmanuel’s Lancl.lWHat fpeak we, men and angels, of the limitsof divine power ? what talk we of his mani-fefting his excellency in one, or many, or innumer-;able worlds? Is it not manifefted to the ottermofl;The proteftion of never lb many armies of creaturescan add nothing thereto: Since the manifeftation o«God in the flefh, is the principal defign of eterni¬ty: And all other manifeftations are in order to thisThere Rands one among us all, who is the ftrft borrof every creature exiRant, or poffible: Here ithat man, in whom is vifible to be feen fuch glorymajeRy, lovelinefs, fweetnefs, companion, mercy :juRice, wifdom, and all treafures of overflowinfulnefs of excellency, in fuch an incomprehenfibhtranfeendaht, eminent and fuper-abundant manneias all the beholders are overwhelmed in a fea of d<Jightfbme ravifliments for evermore.CotildR thou, O my God, inanifeRed thyfelf motclearly, familiarly, fweetly condelcending ? Awa ,with other worlds, though they were ; This is tlonly one, fince my all lovely, WELL-BELCME D dwells here. Thy beauty my fair one, dar .round about thee, and fills this world with paffitI A GLIMPSE OF GLORY. 3-*Jr ^glory ; yea, were this world Myriads of Myriadsof Stages, and ever lb many tim«s greater than itis, one ray of thy countenance, one glance of thineeye would enlighten, and adorn it all. What tho*we could view and comprehend at once, thoufandsof thoufands of created paradifes of beauty ; onefight of thy God-like vifage would fwallow up allangels, had you fuch a fweet manifeftation of di¬vine beauty in the beginning, as now ? Is not ourheaven now two heavens ? Since the eflential I-mage of God ftandeth here, cloathed with the hu¬man nature, as our ‘ everlafiing King, Prieft,’ andthe great Lord ‘Mediator of the new Covenant,’i the boundlefs treafure of all fulnefs, out of which| we (hall all be filled and fatiate for evermore. AreI we not, as it were conftrained betwixt Handingback, and drawing near? Thefe who behold thee,what can they think of themfelves ? Yet, who canIlee, and take reft until they be folded in thy ra-vithing embrace ? Verily thou art both the fhame1! and glory of creatures: created excellency is ex-c alted in thee, to the higheft pitch ; and all createdr excellency is beautified and obfcured before thee,f This is the man, men and angels, by whom all. things in heaven and earth do flourilh and bloom.This is the ‘ Tree of life,’ the great ‘ Vine of glory,*into which we are all ingrafted, as fo many boughsand twigs ; All the glory of his Father’s houfehangs upon him, the * Offspring and llfue,’ as fbmany chips and pieces darting out from him. Thisis he, in whom we have been ordain’d to this blefi-lednefs from eternity; This is he, who was pro-mifed to the people, under the firft difpenfation ofthe gofpel ; who was held forth by Types and Sha¬dows unto them. This is he, by whom the carnaland beggarly Elements of the world were deftroyed,the4 A GLIMPSE OF GLORY.the clear evident Gofpel difpenfation was broughtto; the Hand-writing of the law cancelled, the vailbetwixt Jew and Gentile was rent afllmder; the na¬tions were ingrafted into the old flock of the peculiarpeople, the abftrufe fecrets of eternity were opened, jthe kingdoms were fhaken, the princes of the earthwere fet up, and pulled down ; the church was pre-ferved, and flourifhed, in defpight of all the world. |This is the man, who ‘ wounded the heads’ over fmany countries; who ‘ trode the wine-prefs alone,’and trampled the people in his fury ; until all ‘ hi?‘ raiment was ftained with blood.’ This is he, whole Iname is called ‘ Wonderful, Councilor, the Al- |* mighty GOD, the everlafling Father, the Prince |* of Peace: of the increafe of his government and j‘ peace there is no end.* This is the ‘ Stone cut out |* without hands,’ which fmote all the power, ftrength 1and might of kingdoms, nations and languages: jand lo, all principalities, and thrones, and powers, jand dominions are broken to pieces together: and Igbecorpe like the chaff of the fummer threfhing-floor rthat the wind hath carried away. And behold, ‘ this‘ Stoned which hath fmitten to nothing, all tranfi-tory glory, is become ‘ exceeding great, and filleth* all in all.’ This is he, whom nothing could o-vercome ; he entered the lifts with death and hell, >and gave them an eternal foil: fb that they lie un¬der his feet, and the feet of his chofen, for ever and |ever.Could ten thoufand deaths overcome him? Werenot devils and wicked men fools, that imagined to fbind him wiih any ties ? What would chains great-5 f.,er than many worlds? What would infinite num? Ibets of mountains of brafs, be to hold him down,that he rife not again ? ‘ How did this Lion of the [f* tribe of Judah,’ roufe himfelf from the fleep ofdeath, ;A GLIMPSE OF GLORY. 5death, like a mighty man after wine; and madeheaver and earth, and all to quake ! Who, butthe Standard-bearer among ten thoufand ? Who,but the Prince of the kings of* the earth ? Who,but the mighty Captain of the Lord’s hofts couldhave done fo valiantly ? Thou only haft done he¬roically, O Well beloved. You little heroes oftime, your magnanimity, and heroic afts evaniflihere: even though you had done all you did, inyour own ftrength, and not by his; ‘ What tho’‘ you fubdued kingdoms, wrought righteoufnels,* flopped the mouths of lions, quenched the vio-* knee of fire, through weaknefs became ftrong^* put to flight the armies of the aliens?’ AH thelewere done thro’ faith in him. Yet what have yedone? Could you have trode the wine-prefs alone?And drunk the cup of the wrath of the Almighty,from brim to bottom ? Could you have flood in thegap, when infinite eternal vehgeance, like a mightyflood, was rufhing in upon rebellious mankind ?! Who elfe could have turned back the mighty cur¬rent of fuch floods of wrath ? and pacified offendedMajefty, bringing rebels to ftoop, and be receivedinto mercy and favour again ? Who other couldhave given hell fuch a blow as it fliall never be ableto rife ? and railed men and angels to fuch a pitch,; as that they fhall never fall? Who other could haveled captivity captive, and purchafed gifts for men,even for the rebellious ? Who other could have o-pened the gates of this celeftial Paradife, (hut uponbafe, ungrateful man ? and exalted him, by thou-fands of ftages, to more glory and excellency thanhe fell from? Thou art all in all, thou art marrow-lefs, O WELL BELOVED! no more compari-:l fons betwixt thee and creatures. Hide yourfelves,H and be confounded, all lower excellencies; be yeftlent,6 A GLIMPSE OF GLORY.filent, all creatures, when he begins to fpeak ; co¬ver your faces, all you little glories and beauties,when he doth (hew his face: you are nothing, youare vanity compared to him. He is all things. Ve¬rily * in him dwells all fulnefs.’ Thou art not, Oheaven of heavens, worthy to be a foot ftool forhis glorious feet. Infinite worlds, erefted aboveone another, were low for him to tread upon. Whatare you, men and angels, that you fhould thusHand befide him ? That you (hall let your head with¬in that world, he is pleafed to dwell in ? Did henot wonderfully condefcend, you might run outwithout the very creation ? What is our flrengthand beauty ? On whofe legs do we ftand ? Are weable for one moment, to perlevere in our integritywithout him? Should we not all become deformedin fin ? Can he draw into himfelf what he darts forth ?How is this paradife of GOD planted with goodlytrees, bloflbming and fiourifliing with an eternalverdour? But did they not receive fap and life, andall from this golden * Branch of the ftem of Jefie,’how in a moment fhould their golden bloffoms wi¬ther, their fruit fall off, their leaves decay, and theirroot dry up ? It is ten heavens of joy, O Well-be¬loved, to know that thy love is unchangeable; andthat thefe that are united to thee, by faith, in time,and immediate beholding, in eternity, (hall neverbe disjoined from thee; but (hall ever remain dolelocked in the arms of eternal love.What are your thoughts, ‘ O ye ranfomed ones,*of this aflonilhing difpenfation ? What an incon¬ceivable tranfportation is this? that any of the curl¬ed flock of mankind, fhould be adopted co-heirswith the eflential Heir of all things! ‘ Of him arein Chrift Jefus, who of GOD is made untcI'.we.us wifdom, righteoufnefs, lanftification, redemp-|A GLIMPSE OF GLORY. 7‘ tion,’ and all. Thoufand times blefled counfel ofeternity ! ‘ That chofe us in him before the foun-‘ dation of the world: having predcftinate us unto* the adoption of children by Jefus Ghrifl, unto‘ himfelf, according to the good pleafure of his will,‘ to the praife of the glory of his-grace ; wherein he* hath made us accepted in the Beloved : having* made known unto us the myflery of his will, ac-‘ cording to his good pleafure, which he had pur-* pofed in himlelf; that in the difpenfation of the‘ fulnefs of time, he might gather together in one‘ all things, in Chrift, both which are in heaven,* and which are on earth.’ It was not my purpole,dreadful Sovereign, that any Ihould inherit glorythrough their own obedience ; a world of workingwas but for a time, that this of altogether free gracem ght (hine forth more glorioufly. Free grace’sbanner is the only pavilion, we fhould for ever a-bide under.. How greatly did the devil befool himfelf, in en¬deavouring to obfcure the glory of his Maker, bythe rebellion of man? was he not herein an inftru-ment in the hand of the great Sovereign, wherebyhe made way for his chief and only purpofe? Whatfhould our bleflednefs have been, to what now itis, if we had wanted thee, ‘ O EMMANUEL, the1 ‘ man of God’s right-hand, the very breath of out| ‘ noftrils ?’ Our eternal fong fhould not have beenj fo melodious; the praifes of free redeeming grace| fhould not have been heard here: ‘ Glory to the* Lamb, that was flain, and lives for ever,’ fhould1! never have been lung.No worlds to this world ! no happinefs to thi:lhappinefs! this is the flower, and top of all poflibhI difpenfations: here is a confluence of innumerabhprovidences, that Ihall never be comprehended( 7MT o vi«f8 A GLIMPSE OF GLORY.* Many O LORD my GOD, are thy wonderful* works, which thou haft done: and thy thoughts I* which are to us-ward, they cannot be reckoned up* in order to thee.’ How evidently do I now (ie,that thy love pafleth all underftanding ; that thyways are innumerable; and thy thoughts unft-archable ? my eyes are eternally fixed upon thee, O flowe-r of all beauty, and lovelinefs; thou art the cente:whereto all defireablenefs and excellency betakes if(elf. In beholding thee, I behold all things. Arthou not love, difcovered to the full ? mercy mani*feftcd in its higheft perfetftion ? judgment and|righteoufncfs vifibly, In its full fplendor; what hawwe, which is not in thee ? and what can a creaturex want, which is not in thee ? Shall we not, O enjoyers, be fatiate, beautified, ravifhed, blelled for| ver more, with that infinite fulnefs of all exceller.t cies which dwells in him? ‘ We behold to the full;v ‘ the glor^, as the glory of the only begotten Sona 4 of the Father, full of grace and truth: and of th‘‘^ ‘ fulnefs have we all received, and grace for grace.t We have received thy teftiraony, have fet to ourr feal that GOD is true: that thou, whom he fent in*j,to the world, fpeakeft the things of GOD: for het giveth not the Spirit by meafure unto thee, O howa great is the myftery of godlinefa ? ‘GOD mani-t,‘ fefted in the fle(h,'juflified in the Spirit, feen of1(‘ angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on14 in the world, received up into glory.’ If this wascwonderful in time, is it not ten thoufand timesctnore now? When the bright day of eternity hathcbroken up. If a fight of this by faith, was ravitfi^jng, am I not now pafled all the limits of fuch m'tions ? O this frame! O glory, glory ! thou art<malfie indeed !P T M T S.