cheap tracts.Calculated to promote the Interestr of Reli¬gion, Virtjie, and Humanity.No. XIX. kAn ANTIDOTE toSuperstition:Or, A Cure for thofe weak minds whichare troubled with the fear of,Ghosts 8y Witches,or who tremble at the confequences ofinaufpicious Dreams or Bad Omens.IN TWO PARTS.“ For as it is the chief concern of wife men to retrench the evil.',of life by the reafonings of philofophy ; it is the employment offools to multiply them by the fentiments of fuperftition.”To which is annexed.The Art of,FORTUNE TELLINGEXPOSED:or, the Delphic Oracle of the Old Bai¬ley out of his reckoning for once.“ For I had no fooner returned to my lodgings, than I found a let"ter on my table, acquainting me that my dear friend had loft hislife in a skirmifh that happened between two detachments Of theF.oftile armies, long before the battle of Minekn.”— DUNBAR: {>rPrinted by G. Millerc—atwhofe Shop may be had a variety ofPamphlets, Ballads, Children’s Books, Pidlures Catecl.Iste. Sc'.WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,K0?0®CS0@00@0ffi0aGg>0»An Antidote to Superftition.Part 1st.<The Hi/lory of Phil aretes the SUPER-STITIOUS Man, with the method Hetook to extricate himfelf from the fetters \of Superjlition.*€)h ! mould mankind but make great truths their guidet'Andforce the helm from Prejudice end Pride;Were once thefe maxims fix'd, that God's our friend.Virtue cur good, and happineff our end;Horn foon mufi reafon o'er the -worldprevail.And error, fraud, and Superfiitiont fail lALTHOUGH man is born to bear, hein faft fuffers more diftrefs and miferyfrom the dread of apprehended vifionarytvils, than the aftual feeling of prefent realones. Cloyed with the palling moment,with infatiable avidity we ralh forward toreconnoitre the invilible regions of futurity,and from events utterly unknown, wc an¬ticipate our blifs or woe.This anticipating bent of mind has hadinnumerable occafions ol exerciling'its pow¬ers,from the long received do<flrincsof omens,ghofts, ipe&res, vifions, witches and cloven-tooted demons.C 3 )Where-ever ftnowledge and fcience arewanting, ignorance, dulnefs, and credulitydwell, and blind folly and rampant fuper-flition will have numberlefs abettors andvotaries : until the old woman is wholly ex¬pelled from our breafts, we (hall remainabjedt flavcs to the moft ridiculous prejudi¬ces of habit, cuftom and education. Thewhole inhabitants of the globe verify thetruth of thefe obfervations. In Lapland,which is as much covered with ignorance &fuperflition as it is with eternal fnow, ma¬gicians and forcerers abound. They live bytheir craft ; they are wind-merchants, andthe mariners are fuch flaves to thefe impof-tors, that they often buy from therrva magiccord, which, they vainly hope, will gainwhat wind they want. Egypt, the motherof occult fciences is at this day over-runwith jugglers and flight-of-hand men. Thenative Americans are abforbed in fuper-ftition ; they believe that fome bad geniiproduce all their mifery, and that jugglersarc their minifters to predidt future events.The Chinefe fortune-tellers and aftrologersdiredt and govern the whole populace in allaffairs of consequence. The modern Per-fians are the moft fuperftitious people onearth, wholly addidted to, and governed byjudicial aftrology. The weftern Scots If-Janders pretend to mamologyand the fecond-ftght j numbers amongft ourfelves are lkve»( 4 )to the gloomy terror of dreams and fieryphantoms ; and I myfelf have leen perfons,who begged their daily bread, and knew notwhere to find lodgings at night, pretend tounfold and difeover the impenetrable fecretsof divine Pfovidence.But in every age and nation, where learn¬ing has reared aloft her polifhed head^where true philofophy is cultivated, wherecommon fenfe is heard and liftened to, theleomens, apparitions, prediftions, and blackarts, are univerfally exploded, and juftlyderided; and the mad vifionary infatuationof monafi-ic barbarity, is condemned to dwellin the dilmal cottages of dull ftupidity,amazing folly and moping ignorance.During thofe happy days 1 fpent at fchool,1 was a profefifed devotee to good and illomens* 1 was the favourite of a worthygrandmother, who had feen fix mofiarchstway the Britifh feeptre. This fagaciousold world matron was a perfed miftrefs inthe fcience of mantology, and could unfoldall its myfteries, from the mean prognofticsof tea-grounds, to the awful predictions ofcomets : fhe could plainly forefee all mif-forrunes, from that of the breaking a Chinacup, to the death of princes and the diflblu-tion of kingdoms. She had all Satan’s in-vijible World by heart, and could repeat athoufand {lories of ghofts, hobgoblins, andapparitions, which would make your hair( s )(land erect, and your nerves convuife,-harrow up your foul, and freeze your blood.At twelve years of age 1 myfelf was acomplete mafter in all the branches of fu-pernicious fcience, and could difpute withthe moft credulous old-maid in town. But,alas ! rny fcientific proficiency conftantlyfilled my mind with thoulands of imaginarytortures, in io much, that a magpie did notchatter on our roof, nor a timorous hareftart up, but 1 thought they were omens offome future evil to me. The (baking of awillow or reed was more terrible to me thana ruffian’s dagger : the fluttering of a bird,the ruftling of afpen leaves, have made myhair ftand erect, and the fweat diftill inlarge and copious drops. The lugubrouschirping of a fire-cricket under my bed¬chamber grate, almoft perfuaded me that 1was to die very foon ; and die 1 moft certain¬ly Ihould through pure fear, had 1 not boldlypoured a large drink-offering of boilingwater on the place where 1 deemed the littlereptile had its neft. Darknefs and nightwere as terrible to me as the (hades of Tar¬tarus; fori believed both equally full of fpiritsand apparitions. 1 would not go into aroom alone or without light; once 1 almoftloft my fenfes, and alarmed the houfe by go¬ing into a cellar where a few dried fifh werehung up. 1 was once purfued nigh thechurch-yard by a long-bearded goat; 1 really( 6 )thought it was the difcontented ghoi: offome buried perfon, and by my fhrieks 1alarmed the guard at the Barracks. 1 wasonce confined to bed by a violent head-ach;a clock, difturbed my repofe ; 1 verily im¬agined it was the devil, but rhe fright dif-iodged my pain ; and this was the only pro¬fit i ever reaped from my ftiperftition.Such were the dreadful effects w'hich thisprepofterous education had on my mind.The hourly and ordinary occurrences in lifecould not pafs without furnifhihg my dis¬ordered and infatuated fancy, with an in-exhauftible fund of incumbent milery, andcorrofive gnawing torment to my foul.My great conlhlation was, that my con¬dition was not Angular. 1 found many ofmy numerous circle, of acquaintance, bothold and young, inveloped in as great abfur-dities as myfelt. One of them would nondrefs his head after eroding a grave : afecond would nor allow his fon to be baptifedwithout putting fome bread in its cloaths :a third would not cut his nails on Friday :a fourth would not have his work begun onSaturday : a fifth would not proceed on ajourney of importance, if he met a perfoncarrying water as he fet out : a fixth pre¬tended to expel difeafes by burning horfe-fhoes in the fire, or making the patient pafstinder fome {tones taking from a part of theriv^r where the living and dead paffed,( 7 )whilft he repeated certain charms and fpells: 'a fevcnth would not pafs by the houfe of anold woman, becaufe he thought her a witch,and that Ihe had ftolen his hive of bees.Many of my acquaintance wore amulets topreferve them from bewitching ; in fine,we were the abjeft flaves of every filly idlefret, which imagination has devifed, tablefeigned, or fear conceived.This fhort abftraft of my own and myneighbours hiftory, thews with what uncon-troled, yea, almoft indeiiable power, awrong education ftamps credulity on themind, and gives it a bias to the grofleft fu-perftition. As I found the prejudices Ihad imbibed hard to be removed, as thefedelufierns of fancy frequently returned andunhinged my foul, in order to fortify rny-ielf againft their fudden attacks, I have of¬ten put ;he following queltions to myfelf,-and as often refolved their anfwers in mymind. This was the method I took to ex¬tricate myfelf from thofe dreadful fetters offuperftition in which l was entangled, andif you think it may effeft a cure on any ofthe numerous devotees to legendary fictions,vifions, &c. 1 lhall think my labour amplycompenfated.On hearing a weak wotpan divine fromthe dregs of tea in a cup, from feeing fomemeteor, blazing ftar, or comet, that fomedireful misfortunes and public calamities( 8 )would happen ; O, heavens! faid a, canthis perfon look into futurity, or what con¬nexion is there betwixt one of the celeftialoibs going its ample round, and famines,wars, or plagues ? No; there is only one u-niverlal eye fees into futurity, to whom allthings, paft, prefent, and to come, are pr--Ipicuous : it is the eflential perfe&ion ofdeity alone to be omnifcient. Perfons haveindeed been commiffioned by him to pre-diX future events, but this has never hap¬pened lince the world had a plenary revela¬tion of agenda and credenda. To preiumethen, from figns or prodigies above or be¬neath, to fore-know and foretel futurities, isthe grofleft profanenefs and impiety ; it isno lefs than to claim wifdom equal to ourmaker. Surely then, faid 1, this impiouspretence is only defigned to work on theweaknefs, and fill the breafts of lilly mor¬tals with imaginary fears.Again, Are their not fuch things as ghofts, |vifion? or apparitions ^ Do we not read, andhave we not heard of many of them wellattefted ? No ; I cannot believe them : Why?Becaufe a ghofl or fpirit is, by its very na¬ture, invifible; it cannot be feen : fallowindeed, that fpirits have a vehicle for an in-ftrument to them of local motion, whichthey may ratify or condenfe; but that theyrove about on earth or air, like floating a-toms, I cannot believe. Why ? Becaule Ibelieve in a particular Providence; that the( 9 )fupretne Being ruleth over all; that fpiritsare his minifters, and when they defcendfrom above, it is by fpecial cornmiffion toexecute his commands, and then to return.Some of them may be our guardians; butthat anyofthemfhould ever terrify or affrightpoor mortals (as the hr ague fmells out, andterrifies poor birds), is againft reafon, andformally impoffible.But does not the devil and his retainersfometimes appear and feek their prey ? No;impoffible ; For what is he ? Why nothingbut a fervant in chains for rebellion; andwhilft an all-good Being rules the univerfe,he cannot hurt a (ingle fparrow. His baitsand allurements may be laid before us jullas I have laid bird lime to catch the feath¬er’d fongfters), thefe we may fly to, and beenfnared. No, no; I dread not the b'ackhorns of Belzebub, but 1 fear the beingdrawn away by my own lulls after the dae¬mons of riches, honours and pleafures, intoavarice, ambition and voluptuoufnefs.But though you cannot believe in ghoftsand daemons, there are certainly the fpiritsof dead men, who hover over their graves,and are to be leen in temples and churchyardsr No ; 1 do not believe it. The ioulsof men after death pafs over the irremea¬ble gulph to the regions of feparate fpirits ;they go to Him who made them ; they ne¬ver do, nor can return, till the heavens aieno more : the bad are (hut upi imprifoned.( 10 )tortured, and in mifery ; the good are pre¬sent with the source of bliss ; they have for¬got their pilgrimage ftate, and endless joysfill their whole capacities.But though the appearance of ghofls arerare, don’t you believe that this sometimeshappens ? May not their being seen answersome good defign ? Might they not reclaimthe vicious, or advife and confole furvivingfriends ? No; I cannot believe it. Why ?becaufe the univerlal Prefident of naturehas afligned every being its particular fta-tion, office and talents, and whilft he go¬verns, there will be no confufionany where.To difpatch a departed fpirit to tbefe lowerregions, would ferve no end at all. Thevirtuous will always be d;redt:ed by, and re¬ly on his word and facred bchefls in theday of diflrefs; and if his revealed will can¬not convert the bad, a thoufand melTengersfrom the Tartarian (hades will not avail.But don’t you believe in witches ? Surelyfuch there have been ; witness that of £n-dor : you have often heard of their mightyfeats. Docs not hiftory tell you, that in 1650,an Ord, a village near Berwick, whichthen contained only fourteen houfes, four¬teen perfons were burnt for witchcraft ? Thisyou cannot deny. If by a witch you meana perfon in confederacy with Satan, to hurtthe bodies or eftates of men, I deny thatthere ever was, or ever will be any fuch onearth. Such a confederacy is abfolutely im-( II )jjoflible: extol and magnify the devil'spowers as much as you pleale, they are in¬communicable. I believe that in formerages of ruftic barbarity, and overwhelmingfanaticifm, envy and malice, oppreffion andtyranny, were the real and only caufes ofwitch-craft. Whenever a poor woman wasmaligned by her neighbours, or was poflef-fed of any thing they coveted, (he was char¬ged with this crime ; without knowing heraccufer, the magiftrate under whofe jurif-diftion (lie lived, caufed her to be tried byproper (ymptoms; thefe were, an immer-fion in water ; if (he funk (he was acquitted,but periftied by the experiment; if (lie fwam,flie was taken out and burnt without anymore proof. The woman of Endor was nofuch witch; her trade, indeed, was to fore¬tell future events, and for this purpofe, (hehad hired a familiar fpirit, who was noneelfe than a (hrewd, cunning, artful man, whobeing well acquainted with men and things,after ufing certain charms by way of ma¬chinery, gave fuch refponfes as were mod a-greeable and likely to fall out to his con-fultors. The fame may be faid of the Del¬phic oracle, that great old forcerefs. It wasno more than a confederacy of priefts, whobeing verfant in public and private (latematters, gave anfwers fo ambiguous- anddoubtful, that which way foever the eventhappened, they might be interpreted fo as( 12 )to tally therewith. But that an old dottinghaggard can bring difeafes on my body, isthe higheft delufion. No; not one difeafecan arife merely from any natural caufe,without the particular difpofal of divine Pro¬vidence, which reaches to the very hairs ofmy head. But if by witches you mean got-iiping old maids, who conftantly trade in in¬jurious fcandal, l believe there are myilads,they abound tn every place.In fine, w ithout the aid of rhetoric, by pro-pafing and anfwering thefe and fimilar ques¬tions, 1 have grubbed up the lowed roots offuperftition and folly from my bread. I amfirmly perfuaded that no man ever did feean apparition, unlcfs it was the produdt ofhis own fertile imagination. I never didnor never (hall fee a real one till I go tothe world of fpirits. 1 dread not the great ad-verfary of mankind, but I fear and condant-Iy guard againd his baits to feduce me intothe paths of vice, to live impioufly, impure¬ly, and unjudly. I am not terrified withwalking in burying-grounds by night. No;the organifed bodies which moulder there, Ibelieve to be no more the fentient agent,who once moved in them, than I do the ta¬ble I write on, or any other matter is 1 my-felf. I dread nothing by night but robbersand blood-thirdy adaflins. 1 believe that jas omnifcience fees all things pad, prefentand future, fe confummate wildom dire&s( i3 )the whole fyftem of events to the beft andnobleft ends. It is that all-great and goodBeing whom alone I fear, and regard as theonly ruler and guide of univerfal nature,whofe mercy and goodnels will preventevery evil from coming on me, by the direc¬tion of his holy and wife Providence, whichextends to and watches over the minuted;of his works.An Antidote to Superstition,Part 2nd.‘The SUPERSTITIOUS WIFE with anexcellent Way of fortifying the Soul againjigloomy Prefages and Terrors of the mind,VifionSt and magicfpells, can you defpife.And laugh at -witchef, ghojls, and prodigies ?GOING yefterday to dine with an oldacquaintance, 1 had the misfortune tofind his whole family very much deje&ed.Upon afking him the occafion of it, he toldme that his wife had dreamed a ftrangedream the night before, which they were a-fraid portended fome misfortune to them-felves or to their children. At her coming in¬to the room I obferved a fettled melancholyin her countenance, which I fhould haveC H )been troubled for, had 1 not lieard fromwhence it proceeded, We were no foonerfat down, but after having looked upon mea little while. My dear, fays (he, turning toher hufband, you may now fee the ftrangerthat was in the candle laft night. Soon af¬ter this, as they began to talk of family af¬fairs, a little boy at the lower end of the ta¬ble told her,that he was to go intojoin-hand oaThurfday. Thurfday ? fays fhe, No, child,if it pleafe God, you (hall not begin uponChildermas day ; tell your writing-mafterthat friday will be ioon enough. I was re-fleding with myfelf on the oddnefs of herfancy, and wondering that any body wouldeftaolilh it as a rule to lofe a day in everyweek. In the midft of thefe my mufings,ihe defired me to reach her a little fait uponthe point of my knife, which I did in (ucha trepidation and hurry of obedience, that Ilet it drop by the way; at which (he im- ,mediately ftartled, and faid it fell towardsher. Upon this I looked very blank ; andobferving the concern of the whole table,began to confider my-felf, with fome con-'fufion, as a perfon that had brought a difaf-ter upon the family. The lady, however,recovering herfelf after a little fpace, faid toher hufband, with a figh, My dear, misfor¬tunes never come fingle. My friend, Ifound, aded but an under-part at his table,snd being a man of more good-nature than( *5 )underfbindina;, thinks himfclf obliged tofall in with all the paffions and humours ofhis voke-fellow : Do not you rememoer,childt fays fhe, that the pigeon-houfe fellthe very afternoon that our carelefs wenchfpilt the fak upon the table ? Yes, fays he,my dear, and the next poft brought us anaccount of the battle of Almanza. Thereader may guefs at the figure 1 made, afterhaving done all this mifehief. 1 difpatchedmy dinner, as foon as 1 could, with my uf-ml taciturnity ; when to my utter confufionthe lady feeing me quitting my knife andfork, and laying them acrofs one another up¬on my plate, defired me that L wou'd hum¬our her fo far as to take them out of thatfigure, and place them fide by fide. Whatthe abfurdity was which I had committed 1did not know, but 1 fuppofe there was fometraditionary fuperftition in it; and therefore,in obedience to the lady of the houfe, 1 dif-pofed of my knife and fork in two parallellines, which is the figure 1 fhall always laythem in for the future, though 1 do not knowany reafon for it.It is not difficult for a man to fee that aperfon has conceived an averfion to him.J For my own part, 1 quickly found, by thelady’s looks, that fhe regarded me as a veryodd kind of fellow, with an unfortunare a-fpe6t. For which reafon 1 took my leaveimmediately after dinner, and withdrew to1( i6 )ray fcwn lodgings. Upon my return home,1 fell into a profound contemplation on theevils that attend thefe fuperftitious follies ofmankind ; how they fubjeft us to immagi-nary afflictions, and additional forrows, thatdo not properly come within our lot. As ifthe natural calamities of life were not fuffi-cient for it, we turn the moft indifferent cir-c imftances into misfortunes, and fuffer asmuch from trifling accidents, as from realevils. 1 have known the {hooting of a ftarfpoil a nights reft ; and have feen a man inlove grow pale and lofe his appetite, uponthe plucking of a merry- thought. A fcreech-owl at midnight has alarmed a family morethan a band of robbers; nay, the voice of acricket hath ftruck more terror than theroaring of a lion. There is nothing fo in-confiderable, which may not appear dread¬ful to an imagination that is filled with o-mens and prognoftics. A rufty nail, or acrooked pin fhoot up into prodigies.1 remember 1 was once in a mixed affem-bly, that was full of noife and mirth, whenon a fudden an old woman unluckily obfer-ved there were thirteen of us in company.This remark ftruck a panic terror into iever-al who were prefent, infomuch that one ortwo of the ladies were going to leave theroom; but a friend of mine taking noticethat one of our female companions was bigwith child, affirmed there were fourteen in( i7 >the room, and that, inftead of portendingone of the company (hould die, it plainlyforetold one of them fhould be born. Hadnot my friend found out this expedient tobreak the omen, 1 queftton not but half thewomen in the company would have fallenfick that very night.An old maid, that is troubled with thevapours, produces infinite difturbances ofthis kind among her friends and neighbours.1 know a maiden aunt, of a great family,who is one of thele antiquated Sibyls, thatforebodes and prophefies from one end ofthe year to the other. She is always feeingapparitions, and hearing death-watches; andwas the other day almoft frighted out ofher wits by the great houie-dog, that how¬led in the ftable at a time when flic lay illof the tooth-ach. Such an extravagant cafi:of mind engages multitudes of people, notonly in impertinent terrors, but in fupernu.merary duties ol life ; and ariles from thatfear and ignorance which are natural tothe soul of man. The horror with whichwe entertain the thoughts of death, or in¬deed of any future evil, and the uncertaintyof its approach, fill a melancholy mind withinnumerable apprehenfions and fufpicions,and consequently dispose it to the observa¬tion of such groundless prodigies and pre¬dictions. For as it is the chief concern ofi wise men to retrench the evils of life by the( t« )reasonings of philosophy ; it is the employ¬ment of fools to multiply them by the sen-*titnents of superflition.For my own part, 1 fhould be very muchtroubled were 1 endowed with this divin¬ing quality, though it Ihould inform metruly of every thing that can befal me. Iwould not anticipate the relilh of any hapi-ness, nor feel the weight of any misery, be¬fore ita&ually arrives.1 know but one way of fortifying my foulagainft these gloomy presages and terrors ofmind, and that is, by securing to myself thefriendlhip and protection of that being whodisposes of events, and governs futurity.He sees, at one view, the whole thread of Imy cxiftence, not only that part of it-which ‘I have already pafled through,but that whichruns forward into all the depths of eternity.^When I lay me down tofleep, I recommend ;mylelfto his care ; when I awake, I give myielf up to his direction. Amidft all the evils . ithat threaten me, I will look up to him forhelp, and queftion not but he will either a- >vert them, or turn to my advantage. Though i-I know neither the time nor the manner of fthe death I am to die, I am not at all foli- •citous about it; becaufe I am fure that he iknows them both, and that he will not fail Ito comfort and fupport me under them.The /\rt of|FORTUNE-TELLING EXPOSED,9r, the Delphic Oracle of the Old Bai¬ley out of his reckoning for once* ■«•Iieav’n. from all creatures hides the hook 0f Fate,jill but the title page, prefcrib'd their prejent fate.T Was larely prevailed upon by a femaleJ X acquaintance, to acconipany tier to thati Delphic Oracle of the great as well as fmallvulgar, the famous fortune-teller in the Old-: Bailey. Upon our entering the anticham-: ber, or outer court, or whatever you pleafeto call it, we found a large company of peo-iple, who were come hither on the lame er¬rand with ourfelves; but I believe, with agreater fhare of credulity, and more feriousintentions. As we were obliged to wait; here a confiderable time, before we couldhave the honour of being admitted into the;j penetrale, or inner-temple,of this hoary fage,ll 1 had an opportunity of making my remarka) on all thefe votaries of fortune; fome ofj whom had already obtained an audience,; whi 1ft the reft were every moment expc&ingC 20 )the fame favour. It is impofiible for me toddcribe, or for you to conceive, the raptureof joy and gladnefs that flufhed in the coun¬tenances of the former, or the'ardour of hopeand expedlation that glowed in the faces ofthe latter : and had 1 been a good painter,I think I couid have fent you one of the fineftreprefentations of what they call, a Fool’sParadife, that was ever feen ; for every fin-glcperfon, in this groupe, was either happy,or expecting to be happy, without ever re-fle&ing upon what a iandy foundation theirhappinels was placed : and, I muft own, Iam greatly furprifed that neither Hogarth,nor any other of our comic genius’s, haveever thought of fuch a curious fubjeft.1 could overhear one young lady tellingher companion, that (he was refolved tobreak off the intended match ; “ For faysfhe, this here Philofopher aflures me thatmy brother (who is Captain of a priva¬teer) will fbon take fuch a rich Frenchprize, as will enable him to give me a ve¬ry large fortune; and then, adds fhe, I“ (hall have a title to a much better gentle-“ man than Mr. G ” A married ladytold her hufband (who by the bye feemedto have been drawn to this place much a-gainft his will) that fhe was determined tobreed the child, with which Ihe was thenpregnant, to the law ; for that the Wifeacrehad informed her it would be a boy, and46€6€6€6ii( 2* )that he would make a diftinguifhed figureand be advanced to a very eminent rank mthat honourable profeffion. In a word. Sir,there was nothing to be heard or feen in thiscompany, but congratulations of good for¬tune, forming of fchemes, hope, joy, exul¬tation, or whatever can be conceived asIpleafing or agreeable : and if there be fucha thing as happinefs without reafon, thefewere furely a fet of the happieft people thatl| ever exifted; though I muft confefs, I wasi frequently tempted to think, that their hap-Ipinefs bore a very ftrong refemblance tothat of the ftraw-crowned monarch in Bed¬lam.At laft, our turn of being admitted arriv¬ed, and the young lady, as good mannersrequired, was introduced firfi:. After beingclofetted for about a quarter of an hour withthis falfe Prophet, fhe returned, and affuredme, that he was certainly one of the modwonderful men in the world ; for he hadtold her a thonfand things which (he thoughtno body had known but herfelf.By this time, Sir, you will imagine, thatmy incredulity muft have been, in fome•j meafure, removed, and that I was readilydifpofed to believe the incoherent reveriesof this folemn mocker; but fo fully was Iconvinced of the fallacy of his art, that I of¬fered to lay a wager, that he could not givea true and fatisfa&ory anfwcr to any fingle( 22 )queftion I propofed. /Vnd, in fart, this wasttje cafe ; for, when we came to have a pri¬vate convertation, l told him the only thingabout which I meant to confult him, wasthe fate of a young gentleman, a relation ofmine, who was abroad with the Britilh troopsin Germany, and from whom lhad not heardfor feme time paft. At firft he begged to ;be informed of his age ; that 1 told him, 1!had forgot : then he enquired of what rankhe was in the army : that, 1 faid, was oneof the principal things 1 wanted to learn fromhim. In a word. Sir, he afked me fo many'queftions about his family, fortune, learning,intereft and connexions, that, had 1 ani-wered them all, 1 fhould have left nothing forhim to do, but to draw fome plain conclu-fion, which any man of common fenfe mighthave done as well as himfelf. But findingthat he could extort nothin g from me, andbeing afhamed to acknowledge the imper-fedtion of his art,, he ventured to make a boldpu(h : contrafting his brows, therefore, intoa mod gloomy frown, and looking with agreat deal of gravity and grimace, he con¬tinued for lome time in a thoughtful pollute:then darting, as it were, from a tranfce.Now, fays he, 1 have it : ■ -your friend“ has nobly didinguilhed himfelf in that“ glorious battle which was fought betweent( the Britilh and French armies on the plains•* ot Minden, and for his courage and con-e* duft in that important a£lion, he is now“ r-iifcd to a higher rank.; and at the con-“ clufion of the campaign you will have the“ pleafure of feeing him in England.” Asthere was nothing improbable in all this, 1muft own. 1 was inclined to believe or moreproperly to wifh, that it might be true ; but1 ratner believed it from the probability of thething itfelf, than from any faith 1 had in hisart, which, in this particular inftance (and,1 imagine, it will be found to do so in all o-thers) moft unluckily proved to be deceitful:for 1 had no sooner returned to my lodgings,then 1 found a letter on my table, acquaint¬ing me that my dear friend had loft his life'in a Ikirmifti that happened between twodetachments of the hoftile armies, long be¬fore the battle of Minden.The whole of this adventure led me intoa train of ferious reflections on the folly andimpiety of fearching into future events.Whence can proceed this unreafonable de¬fire ? Does it fpring from a fecret diftruftof Providence, as if we were more capableof managing matters for ourfelves, than thatomnifeient and omnipotent Being, in whofehand is the ditpofal of all things paft, pre-fent, and future ? Or is the human mind offuch an e xtenfive capacity, that, not latisfiedwith the knowledge of all the tranfadtions offormer ages, it muft be diving into the un¬fathomable depths of futurity £* 24 )Whatever be its caufe, its effefb are buDtoo plain and obvious : tor it naturally tendsto unfettle and unhinge the mind, and todraw us off from the improvement of pre-fent advantages, and the enjoyment of pre-fent pleafures, by the fear of future evil thatnever may happen, and the hope of diftantgood that never may arrive. Were fomemen to forefee all the misfortunes that areto befal them, their fpirits would fink underthe terrible prolpcdf; and were others to beprevioufly informed of all the happinefs theyare to enjoy, they would be in danger^ likefpend-thrift heirs, of mortgaging their eftatesbefore they come to the real poffeflion. Itis to prevent thefe, and the like fatal confe-quences, that the wife Governor of the uni¬verse hath wrapt up the knowledge of fu¬ture events in thick and pitchy darknefs,impenetrable to human eyes : thefe are thefecret things of the Almighty, into whichr.o mortal fhould dare to pry; yefterday isirrecoverably gone j the morrow is yet un¬born, and, perhaps, to us, may never beborn ; the prefent day, therefore, and thatonly is our’s, and upon our right improve- iment of it depends our happinefs, as well inthis life as in that which is to come.FINIS.Printed by C Miller, ,