Wild HuntsmanAND THEFORCE OF COarSCIEXCEAN INTERESTING TALE,PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELERS,8YHOT8i'sifnifSHT -I0i tfl£ffl2»mrH bliWjttII3'H T CLKAta3'Kai»«'K03 ^EO..IJAT OKIT8aflaTH4.eaajjaaxooa a«T aoi (ia r/nn^SSSSSSSSSSSSSXSSSSSSSSSSSS^S^bn v ; ; /•' >il .lUQvft ^isnibio^iixs wdiJ+K af!l io^ ; ^Jjlcai ni or. gnusmWild Ilunlsman.[i; w gjj,1970v/oH .moliooitliinogioq sift■io—I?.-(i oil > ■wjiofuior! ■•; t yd 7)1901! aid >'t o)Fhe Wiki Huntsman of the Danes, is the:elebrated kin>» VValdemar IV. who may beailed the second founder of the Danishingdom. The legend of the Wild Hunts-uan is as follows :King VValdemar loved Povelille, a maidenrom Ry)gen, and was quite inconsolablet her death ; so much so. that he resolvedlever to part with her body, but made it becarried along with him wherever hejour-neyed. Uiao rnilfTil his courtiers were highly dissatisfiedit this fancy, and one of them becameMr folks to know what was the secret of theking’s attachment to the corpse. On ex¬amining it with great attention, he foundfjjin enchanted ring on one of its fingers,iWhieh he took off and kept. After this themassion of the king suddenly changed, and hedlowed thecorpseto he buried; buttbe royal’eganl was now turned upon the courtierlimself, so that he rose daily higher in favor;—the king demanded his constant presence;and would do nothing without his advice.Th< ugh people thought him happy under4this extraordinary favour, he was by nomeans so in reality; for the excessive at¬tachment of the king actually deprived himof his personal freedom. However, ashis wellknew from whai cause this arose, he resolvedto regain his liberty by ienouncing the pos-isession of the enchanted ring.One day, therefore, while riding with theking through the forest of Gone, he threwlthe ring into a marsh, and from that momentthe king’s attachment seemed to be transnferred to that marsh, and he could not livecomfortably any where else. Here he built;the castle ofGurre, and hunted in ihe forestnight and day. So much attached was heto the place, that his love of it drew fromhim certain sinful woids which finally be¬came his condemnation before the tribunalof Heaven. They were to the effect thatGod might keep his heaven to himself, pro¬vided he, Waldemar, might for ever livehunting in the forest ofGurre.He new rides every night from Burre tO'Gurre, and is known throughout the wholecountry as the Wild Huntsman. When heapproaches, their is a great rushing noiseand cracking of whips in the air, anti allwho hear it, step aside and hide themselvesbehind the trees. Then follows the wholehunt. First come some coal-black dogsrunning about, as if smelling at covers,5vith their blood-red tongues hanging out ofheir raoulhs ; then Waldemar appears gatdoping on his snowwhite horse, and not un-Tequently he seems to hold his head underhis left arm. If he meets any person, par-icularly old people, he commands them toceep his dogs, and leaves them standingvith them, till at a signal made by a shot,the dog's burst their leashes and rush offnorting wildly. When the Wild hutitsman(oes off in this style, he is hard clashinghe gates violently behind him; and in thosedaces where there is any thorough fare, he•allops in at one gate, and out at thekher, in spite of the strongest bolts andoars.— At Christmas time he generally rideshrough /bshof in Hoeiby ; and behinditoesklide there is a court where at night¬time they always leave the gate open, as heuas repeatedly broken the locks.—Some-limes he rides over the roofs of the housesuThus in the neighbourhood of Herlufsholm■»> a house the roof of which is considerablyiunk, as it is said, by his riding over it.**In the northern part of Zeeland are some!iins which are called Waldemar’s castle,lere the old women go out regularly atight during midsummer, to open the gates>r him.—Half-a-mile from Gurre lies#aldemar’s hill, which is surrounded byrater. On this island, tradition say3, six6priests in black vestments, are often seen atmidnight walking about and mutteringstrange rhymesj-^—There are several placesat which he rests himself in his wanderings.People say he has a bed-room with two bedsat' Walloee castle, and there he sometimesspends the; night in the form of a blackd*ogi In this room stand two large chests,which, when op ned once, were found filledwith those little round pieces of I eat her which |formed the only species of money known inWaldemar’s time. ,V subterranean passage*connects Walloee castle with Toe'loeschofcastle^ where also Waldemar has a sleepingroam, and where in ancient times it waseven usual to keep a servant for his specialuse. .Sometimes lie rests himself at Word-ingburg, in Waldemar’s tower, or in the ruinsof the castle, where the ghosts of peoplewho appear to have belonged to his owntimes, are y£t seen going about and makingthe beds. A peasant who would not believethat the king ever visited this tower at night,,once ventured to spend the night there..At midnight the king appeared to him, amigreeting him in a fiiendly tone, said:"Thank you for keeping watch in mytower!” He also gave him a piece of goldbut when the peasant took it, it burned around hole in his hand and fell like a coa!upon the ground. From this people con-jecture tlie riature of the punishment whichWaJHefcfear suffers-—Sdmetiitt^ijhoW^ver ithappens that when old men or women havefaithfully kept his dogs for hours, he throwssomething to them, which at first looks likea coal, but when more narrowly examined,turns out to be a piece of fine red gold.jnf; >ltid) sKt lo suneo mil jiAa’/jo' ifi'ibjd.'n £ f>! iBrnnsG ui .ooioii lo|^fonx/I yd yino, byiidtimt Jovod gnidool1 ! —4 ^ Ij 'lo loyoyiua srh(udio'/l .ensihiLvjodonfilsot3 rnoft int : iudhohnijorjusn .fi'ioit doid)obw dol^iw t.11 lot r.id rlJiwri^no/it j loy/oft ylaypl h.naagni) rfgold oi mod 1-1IX> i'TQCSO 911J 110 fiS9ilj00?f^ R}l 9j2XJ7/ bnAn3ffw ,i l.) ns3 /Irio skv/ ruBiluT.i89iot.of!l ot .or! id^no id laid ladiatfii ,rjH tom iml ‘to nob 99 if on si on \ ?A•■■Krl orle ypruftni ispIykuj hnn poiaeqaioo81; hoyji 'i.'uijKt led rnouw rfjiw .ooidUrleim.Q k v/ohiw srlt gc// y i,ui gtdT .isin/oDb/ d gf'jfiiiid yliniet paynw ni (utun9ldoRpr Jud ,iinklfenoon no')THE FORCE OF CONSCIENCE.avjsfl riscnow io nom ijlo narlw jr.di andqq^ lA DANISH TALE.sMilailoof Jaifl 4c ibidv/ .rnydj : u ^J uiinitxa . -   v '•blog bsi srrft lo saaiq t. 3 -' oi[ mo '. lNear t!ie centre of the dark and gloomyforest of Soroe, in Denmark, was a miserablelooking hovel, inhabited only by Francis,the surveyor of the forest, and his daughterJuliana. Nothing can be imagined moremelancholy than the situation of this lonelyhut: far from any other habitation, andsurrounded as it was on all sides by tall,thick trees, it scented a spot fitted only fora wretch who would shun all communionwith his fellow-men, and yet that roof shel¬tered a lovely flower ; though‘ born to blush unseen,And waste its sweetness on the desert air.’Juliana was only ten years old, when herfather first brought her to the forest. Shehad no recollection of her mother, but inher infancy she had been the constantcompanion and plaything of the CountessUlrico, with whom her father lived ascourier. This lady was the widow ofa Danishnobleman, in whose family Francis had been09brought ep, who had resided in Italy formany years, who died there, when Julianawas yet quite an infant. From the momentof his death, the Countess secluded herselffrom society, and appeared to find no plea¬sure save in the company of her young sonOtto, and that of Juliana. These engag¬ing children were with her incessantly, andby their innocent caresses, made her forgethalf her giiefs. Otto, was five years olderfhan Juliana; and when he was fifteen, hisipartiallity to his youthful playmate becameiso marked, that the Countess, fearing, lest,as they grew older, an attachment mightstake place between them procured the situa-ition for Francis which he now held.Poor Juliana bitterly felt the change.(She had acquired, under the tuition of theCountess, a softness and delicacy of manners'which rendered her quite ui fit to associatei with the Danish peasants, and her father sherhad always feared rather than loved. Hetiwas, indeed, an object well calculated to5inspire fear. His long residence in Italy'had bronzed his once fair complexion andhair, whilst thick bushy eyebrows, deep! sunken eyes, an i a lowering brow, gave ai sinister expression to his countenance whichI made the beholdea turn f rom him with anindescribable feeling of disdain : added towhich, the haughtiness he treated his neigh-10hours with when circumstances obliged themto have any communication, completed theirdisgust, and made them regard him as oneaccurst. One sole spark of human affec¬tion yet lingered round this man of terror—it was love for his Juliana. Hut even this;pure and holy as it was, partook of the wildand nncertain nature of all his emotions.Sometimes, he would hang oyer his child,gazing,;with«loting fondness upon her lovelyfabe—then ire would spbrtt her from 'bit®with every demonstration of hatred and?dis¬gust, and, flying to his own chahilrer, shut,himself up there fiom the world. Juliana’saffections were:tlms w ithered in the ifejtuii &her heart, seared by unkindness, recurredwith rapture to the da)S of her childhood,when, carressed by the beautiful Countessand the youthful Otto, she had known nocare, and the world had seemed a paradiseof joy. These pleasing- remembrances re¬ceived additional force from the presents theCountess frequently sent heiyof clothesmadein the fashion of those of Italy ; and hersole pleasure, when the absence of her fathergave her an opportunity, was to dress her¬self in this gay attire, and sit and fancyherself again in the lovely country of herbirth, till, lost in the visions created by herimagination her heart beat, her cheek glowedand happiness again played round her heart.1' Then as she heard the hollow wind howldismally through the forest, an icy chill sank.to her soul ; all the horrors of her forlornI and desolate situation flushed again upon heri mind, and bitter tears rolled unheaded do.Vnij her cheeks.brands and his ilaughter were Catholics,but as their Danish Neighbours were a(lc bigotted Mutheraps, they were compelled tprear an humble alter to the Virgin, in theird own lowly dwelling, before tyhich Frtncisi would frequently kneel for hours together,{apparently quite absorbed by the fervencyIof his devotion. Upon one day in particq-iar, that of all Souls, this demotion be¬came penance ; for on that day, Francisneither ate nor spake. He shut himself upin the cabinet which contained his humble(alter, and uttered shrieks and groans of sotl horrible a nature, that t he passing foresters,m who heard them, thought he must be holdingconverse with evil spirits. At other times,Francis quitted his dwelling with the dawn,, and did not return till night; when hi*i livid countenance, and evident exhaustationterrified his gentle daughter, who, heard»' ways found, had provided some simple, re-pjfreshment to revive him ; and who endeav¬oured to cheer him, whilst he partook of hisrepast, with a song. Nature had blestii!Juliana with a melodious voice, and as her1112full clear notes swelled upon her father's ear,the violence of his passions seemed tosubsideand sometimes tears would trickle from hiseyes.In this manner they lived till Jtiliana hadattained the age of sixteen: when, onenight in winter, as she sat by a glowingfire, anxiously awaiting her father’s return,she fancied she heard a strange voice at thecasement imploring shelter. The nightwas tempestuous—the wind burst with furythrough the forest, and the rain fell in tor¬rents, ‘It must have been only the whistlingof the wind,’ thought Juliana, as anotherblast gushed past the cottage with tremen¬dous violence. A cry, however, mingledwith the gale: it was followed by a deepgroan of agony and dispair. Juliana hesi¬tated no longer, with trembling hands un¬barred the door and gaveadmittance toamanwho staggered into the room, and then fell inA state of utter exhaustion upon the hearth.The stranger appeared about forty, and hisdark brown hair, cleared complexion, andmanly features, seemed to distinguish himalike from the ruddy Dane or swarthy Ital¬ian. Juliana, however, thought not of hisappearance, but, touched with compassion sfor his sufferings, she presented him withwarm wine and other simple food. While i ?she was thus employed, her father entered j18ihe started on seeing a stranger,, and angtilyenquired his business. Juliana replied in aifew words, and Francis seated himself op¬posite the reviving traveller, who shrankshuddering from his fixed gaze.‘Who are you?’ asked Francis sternly,as soon as he saw his guest was sufficientlyrecovered to speak.‘ My name is Carl Von Monder,’ repliedte man. ‘ 1 am an aftist, employed byChristian IV. to paint alter-pieces forseveral towns in Denmark. I am nowexecuting one for the chtirch at Soroe.IAn enthusiastic love of rtattire, engenderedby my art, led me into this forest ttf studdythe most striking effects of light and shade.1 lost my way, was overtaken by the tem-'pest, and should have perished, but for thelangelic kindness of your lovely daughter.’‘ 1 tell you. candidly,’ said brands,J ‘that if I had been at home, you should nothave been admitted : however, as you arehere, you may remain till the storm abates— I will then conduct you through theforest.The gratitude of the painter was evident¬ly chilled by the ungracious manners of hishost, and they sat in perfect silence till thestorm had ceased—the artist endeavouringito imprint the features of the forester uponI his memory, in order to depict them in thealter-piece he was then painting.v!, ' We may; now ventui'e,’ said Francis,lool'ing' out.'Will you not acceptithis trifle ?’ said thepainter, with some hesitation, as he laid apurse upon the table : tor he felt alike un¬willing to remain under an obligation to hishost, or to offer a pecuniary recompence forthe kindness of his daughter.i^o!’ cried Francis, in a voice of thun¬dery and strode out of the hovel, followedby his terrified guest.Some months after this adventure, theyoung Count Otto, and Christian his ser¬vant, entered the gloomy forest of Soroe.They advanced slowly through the thickunderwood, which hung in tangled mazesover their path ; whilst their fiery courserstossed their arched necks, and lashed theirlong tails, impatient of delay. It was thefirst day of November, and tlie evening wasfast closing in with the damp chill peculiarto that season. It did not rain, hut moisturehung in the air, and the blood of the tra¬vellers felt turnedtosteel. Afterproceedingsome time in silence, a long vista throughthe trees, showed them, at a distance, anextensive lake, which gleamed like polishedsilver, amidst the surrounding darkness.A tall figure, wrapt in a large mantle,stood upon its banks, resting upon the stockof a fowlingpiece ; a broad Spanish hat(J{5i heightened the effect produced bythe sombreiappearance of the figue, and, altogether*. the scene formed a picture worthy ,ci\ Salva-tor Rosa. : .’Thank God ! there is a man,’ cried Otto,spuring his horse to reach the lake, ’no doubtihe will be,able to tell us the road.’ jj :.;j ,‘Dear Sir,’ returned Chi jstian, his teethchattering in his headi r’your honour. widnot surely be sp.^ash asri^ot^a^ to, thartIfigure ? ,dt looks,just for all the wqrld hkothe wild woman of the forest,, who tearpIpeople^^sunder with her eagle iciavvs, anddong, wolf-like teeth.’ . ■ .ddqsn, ‘ Peace fool,!'exclaimed/hi^ master, urg¬ing his horse forwand as .he spoke. Whenjhe reached the lake, however, the animal3started back from the figure, rearing so{frightfully, that his master, though an ex-eellent horseman, could scarcely keep hisj|Seat. Otto dismounted} when he had, intsome decree, tamed his restive steed, and1 throwing his bridle to Christain, approach¬ed the figure alone. The man had stoodperfectly still during the disturbance oeca-isioned by the untoward ness of the horse, ap¬parently uninterested in the event. Whenthe count addressed him, howe\ er, he threw(back his hat, and, disclosing features which(would have suited an Alpine bandit, gazedearnestly upon the Count, uttered a shriek,and then darted into the thickest part of theft¥&ir03‘B *‘ins'It is very strange,’said Otto, as he re¬turned to Christain, whom he found stillendeavouring to pacify the panting steed.’ Not at all, my lord,’ muttered the ser¬vant, ’that is begging your honour’s pardonfor being so bold as to contradict you. Thesecreatures have ten times more sense than—we think that they have,” continued he,qualifying the boldness of his assertion, ashe saw a cloud gathering upon his master’sbrow. ’They cannot bear the sight of aspirit. See, poor fellow, how he pants ;and how he’s covered w ith foam ; and mineis not. much better. They are terrified outof there senses, poor things, and, indeed, itisn’t much wonder, for I am almost as badmyself.’’Poor iEone!’ said the count, pattinghis horse’s neck, ’he is terribly frightened ;howeverwe must go on. It was my mother’sdying command, that I should, immediatelyon her decease, seek Francis. 1 have obeyedher ; and, as his dwelling is in the forest,we must proceed.*'Heaven be prtised!’ said Christian, ’ Isee a light, and it comes from something;in the shape of a house. Grant they maybe human beings, and not demons, thatinhabit it.’17They soon reached the hovel from whichdie light proceeded, and the Count, strikingfiolently with his riding whip against theioor, the window was opened, and a miser-ible-looking old woman put forth her head,iemanding, in a tremulons voice,’what wasvanted ?’ The figure of this withered cron,trongly relieved as it was by the light ofihe pine logs, which burnt upon her hearthvas certainly not calculated to repel super¬natural fears, andChristian devoutly crosseddmself, as he heard his master inquire ofier for Francis‘ Italian Francis !’ shrieked the woman :why devils themselves would fear to seekdm on such a night as this. It is the eve”if All Souls, and on this night Satan hasfim under full controul’Nevertheless, I must see him if possible,Und I shall be obliged to }ou, good mother,o show me the road to his dwelling/’ You might as well expect the moon forfootball/ said the old woman, ‘as turn ailful man from his way. However, it iso fault of mine/ And with evident reluc-nce she gave the required direction.Christian’s terrors increased viith everytep, and even Otto felt uneasy ; for thehickness of the trees nowquiteobscured theirath, and the stillness of the night wasroken only by the pattering of the horses’18hoofs, and the monotonous gush of thewaters ef ihelake'. Soon the wind moanedthrough the trees and, as its rising blast'now whistled dhrillv amongst the shrivelledbraves, and then died sadly away, it soundedlike thd wailing of accurse>l spirits sighing'at the remembrande ofuheisius which theyhadOommited whilston earth. Atlengththeyreached an open space, apparently cleared'from the forest, in the centre of which stooda blasted oak, its bare arms stretching wide1asunder, and looking like lines of jet, whenr elieved byt'iedark grey sky beyond. Close"to this or < was tne cottage of Francis, andOtto, springing from his horse, knockedagainst the door. 11opened, and Ottostartedback as a vision of celestial beauty flashedupon his sight. It was Juliana, arrayed inthe picturesque dress of her native country;lor on this evening, she had felt secure thather father would not soon ret urn anti she hadindulged her feedings by putting on herItalian garb. Otto’s astonishment on be¬holding her, deprived him of speech ; andJuliana, afier waiting some seconds, raisedher light to his face. She knew him, not¬withstanding the time which had elapsedsince they last met, and in the transport ofthe moment she threw herself into his arms.’ Dear Juliana !’ said he, pressing her tohis bosom. This action recalled Juliana to19neraelf, and, deeply blushing, she withdrew'herself from liis erntTrace. 6he could not,nowever, quite conceal the transport she felt1U so unexpectedly meeting again with herformer playmate. Pleasure (lanced in Herbright eyes, and the hours which elqp^ed He-lore.the return of'Prancis, dew winged withflowers. It is true, a few bitter tears were‘Shed to the memory of the'departed Coun¬tess ; but at Juliana’.v age, grief does nothbsorb every other feeling, and when theICount spoke of Italy, her soul seemed Maptin Elysium.’ Whilst listening to him, sheforgot all beside, and time passed unheededtill she was called to a consciousness of thepresent, be the return of her father. He(entered the cottage hastily ; and, throwingaside his mantle and large hat, disclosed toOtto’s astonished gaz \ the features of the(mysterious forester. Chiistain, who, afterstaking care of tire horses, had ensconscedihimself snugly in the chimney corner,rtehrieked with affright; but Francis heedodJhim not. With livid lips, and glazed eyes,he seized the arms of Otto and his daughter.r Hugo ! Ulrica !’ cried he, and sank ap-( parently lifeless on the ground.Francis was removed to his bed, he awoke(only to utter delirious lavings, & for severaldays his life was despaired of. Otto sentifbr the first medical aid in ^or je, and by the20assistance of that, and the dutiful attentionsof Juliana, Francis slowly recovered. Hesent for Otto as soon as he was able to bearthe interview.' I am sorry, Count/ said he, with asuavity quite defferent from his usual man¬ner, ’to have received you so inhospitably,but I was evidently even then labouringunder the effect of fever. Would you be¬lieve it, I took you for your father; andJuliana, for my lady your mother, both ofblessed memory •/ continued he, after a shortpause, devoutlycrossinghimself, as he spoke.‘ Where did your mother die?’‘ At foplits,’ said Otto.‘ And she told you to seek me?’‘ With her dvi ng breath. She also gaveme this (shown g a diamond cross) forJuliana.’Francis took the cross and looked at it.On the back were engraved the words,‘ Watch over thy soul, and pray for thedead.’ Francis read them aloud; then mur¬mured them to himself; ami then againcrossing himself, sunk back upon his pillow.‘You come upon a painful business, Otto/said Francis, after a long pause; ‘Julianatells me that your mother sent you to me tolearn some secret, but I can tell you no¬thing.’f Nothing!’ exclaimed the Count, in atone of evident disappointment, ‘my mother,reven in her last agonies, spoke of sometlreadful tale which you only could reveal.*‘ I cannot,’ says Francis ; and even ifI could, I would not.* His voice soundedhoarse and unnatural, and his eyes glaredwith the malice of a demon. The Countseized his arm. ‘ I insist upon your tellingme,’ cried he, wildly; ‘or—’‘Or what?’ asked Francis, with a fear-mi laugh. ‘ In what manner can you makeme do what I will not? You would bedoing me a service to deprive me of life, forL have nothing in this world to regret ; ex¬cept, perhaps, my child,’ added he, in amilder tone as a soffened expression creptover his stern features. Otto was affected,tie begged the forrester to forgive him;and,fm the agitation of the moment, swore(olemnly never to question him more. Fran-is did not reply, and Otto found he fainted,or the energy of his mind had been toofnuch fbj the enfeebled state of his body.The agitation occasioned by this conversa-t’ion brought or. a relapse, and for severaldays Francis’s life hong upon a thread.During this time, Otto could not daily,ijiay, hourly, see the beautiful Juliana, with¬out becoming devotedly attached to her;t was not in nature that she should hearphis unmoved ; and long ere Francis was22able to leave his chamber they had exchang¬ed vows of everlasting constancy.No one could act more honourably thanOtto, and as soon as he thought Francisable to bear such a subject, he declared hispassion, and demanded Juliana for a wife.* Are you mad, Count? asked Francis,looking at him intently, ‘ if you are not,my answer is, that I would rather followJulidna to her grave, than see her united toyou. From this moment, jou never see hermoie.’The Count remonstrated, but he mightas well have hoped to stay the billows ofthe sea, as move the inexorable Francis.What however, will not mutual love effect ?The Count and Juliana mef secretly ; shehau never loved her father, and she was easi-lv persuaded that his refusal was unreasona-Jble: she adored the Count, ami she atlength consented to become his wife.It was a gloomy morning when Julianaleft her father’s dwelling: he was buried ina profound sleep, and the Count, with allthe ardour of' a youthful lover, flatteredhimself that Juliana and he woul i haveplighted their mutual vows before the alterof the ch u r c ho f S u roe long before the drowsyforester would awake. Juliana’s heart beatalmost audibly, and she entered, for the firsttime, this magnificent church, now tendered<28oubly attractive by the splendid alter-pieceEinted for it by Carl Von Monder; thebject of which was 4 The Treachery ofdas.’ Beautiful, however, as t he paintingras, Juliana was to much agitated to lookit. She stood before the altar, but sheought only of the awful ceremony whichas to unite her fore\ er to the Count. I henest went through the usual forms, butist as Juliana gave her hamt to her husband,! fearful scream ran through the wholelilding, and in an instant, Francis rushed;tween the new married pair, exclaiming,i a voice of thunder, 41 forbid the bands!’s he spoke, his eyes fell upon the picture;nd to his indiscribable horror, he saw hiswn features dipicted for those of Judas,Je shrieked in anguish. 4 I—I am Judas!’creamed he, thrown of his guard by thisnexpected incident—‘ I betrayed my mas-er—I seduced his wile, and then poisonedim to conceal my crime. Otto, Juliana isfHY SISTER !’ ^Who shall paint the' agony of the mo-lent ? Francis had broken a blood-vesselrum the violence of his emotion, and as henished speaking, the crimson torrent gush-d from his lips, tie never spoke again, butears of lengthened misery waited on theictims of his crime. Juliana entered aonvent. and Otto sought to win glory by24hissword. He succeeded; his name becameillustrious; his praises filled every mouth,but happiness never visited him more. Allength he fell : a lock of jet-black silky hailwas found next nis heart—‘ Take it to mysister/ murmured he, as life feebly ebbedaway. His wishes were complied with, andwhen Juliana died, that lock of hair, bathedin her brother’s blood was buried in heigrave.wt