THEPLEASURESOFMatrimonyDISPLAYED,»AND THECharming Delights, &c RavUhing- - OFWooing and WedloIN ALL ITSDiverting Enjoyments.■ ' ■ ’• ■ ■ ■Entered according to Order,PLEASURES OF MATRIMONYDISPLAYED.IT'is a Grange thing, that people fhouldtalk of the fifteen C' mlorts or plealures ofMatrimony, as if they could be numbered;whereas I affirm, that the pleafures ofMatrimony are numberlefs. No wonderthen there is nothing more defrred or covetedthan Matrimony, and that it has been infitch high eiieem among all nations, fromthe beginning of the world. It is true therehas been a clamour again*; it; and manythat condemn it, and cry it downj miiiakecomforts for difcomforts.And yet even tlv.fe who complain themnft againft Matrimony will all* thatthere are fifteen m mforts in it; and, if fo,fhcugh there were no more, x^hich yet Iwill not grant, who, that is n< t a madman,would not marry to enjoy, fituen fuch com¬forts as all the world Cannot afford him be-fides? But what will fuch n enfay to wooing?I own, indeed, it is not matrimony itfelf, butAt is the highway to it; and he that marries( a ): without it, lofes one of the chiefeft pleafures'I that belong to it. So that, in order to treati of the pleafures of matrimony, I find it: necefiary to begin with wooing.W ooing-con fills in a man’s pitching uponupon fiome obje£t of his affedtions, of the] female fex ; and it is a comfort there aremore maids than maukins, that he is not; confined in his choice; for if one will not,;| another will. Well, having fixed upon; the defired fhe, and found out her habitation,ii with what her fortune is; he next equipsii himfelf as fine as the taylor and femltrefs; can make him, and prepares for his addrefs;;i and it is a pleafure to him to be thus rigged,I to win his fair miilrefs. Now, whether the,!} girls have father or mother, uncle or aunt,a there’s none but will admit him to pay aI vifit to his hiiftrefs when he comes in thet way of matrimony. But now what a plea-I fure it is to be admitted to a kifs, and agracious fmile from his miftrefs. After that' he has juft fhewed himfelf, and talked idly: to her about half an hour, what a pleafureis it to him, at his departure, to oblige hermaid with the King’s pidture, which caufesher to give luch acharadter of him, efpecia’lyif the pidlure happens t > be fet in gold, as hebegets in the y >ung woman an affedlion to-werds him; which, if he comes to know atthe feccnd meeting, it is irupolfible to de-( 4 )fcribe the tranfports it pats him into; itinfpires fuch joy in his breaft, that he canfcarce iell where he is, or what he does.—-But; at his departure, he fcarce forgets todouble his generofuy to the maid, -as fhegives her promifes of further fervrces to him.Nor is the young baggage wbrfe than herword, fur fhe well kniows her cun iriferefl;and therefore, in about a day or two, Dearmiff, efs, fays fife; you cannot imagine whereI have been this morning! No, fays theyoung gentlewoman, how fhould I ? Why,fays /he, I have been at the conjurers; butyou cannot think What a man he is! I didbut afk, whether fuch a gentleman courtedmy milltefs ? and, calling-his eyes on hisbook, be tpld me he did; and defcribed him'fo exadlly, th. t no painter could have drawn |his pidfure better; a^d, befides this, he toldme,that this was the very man, and no other, Iwhom f rtune defigned for yoil; but I w uld inot h ve you believe me, but go to him jyourfelf tc-morrow. The young gentle-4iv/oirrn hearing this, is all agbg to knowthe t. .;th( f the matter, and, having nit remmd for marriage than devotion, irtflead ofpr-yers, goes to the conjurer,; and he* hadnot .been a cunning man, if he had not toldher-right, being inflructed by the maid be¬forehand v hat to fay. . Well, the younggentlev.- man being fatisfied, it was the wills.f vhe flats, begins prefentiy to have a goodm.. i|- ©pici-ofi ofhtpj, of which the paid fails notto acquaint him. N.<\v juclgq, reader, ifis not an,extraordinary pleafure for whatcan contribute more to his fatisfaction, thanto find his mi fire fs go to the devil to makelure of him. JBut. befides this, there pafi’espiany letters ; and, O ! v/hat a pleafqre it ishis fiyle with. But then her anf.vers,. howtranfpurcing they are! Ivvv often does hein Lime-ftreet; this fans the increafingfl nne; nothing will ferve but he muii bewith her ; and then how he fmirks andfimpersl But when he lees her dance,' he ise.ll over tranfports! Ijow m®ch does headmire her lofty carriage"; the holding upher petticoat enchants him; and the.c.elefiialmotion of her buttocks makes his teeth forfo chatter, and his heart go pit-a-pat-, tothink,what he iha’l do with fo much excel¬lence. But it would take a volume to tellthe pleafures of this interview; let it fufilceto give him an opportunity to ileal herpocket-handkerchief, and to treat her andher paid at the tavern. Nor can his mif-trefs now refufe to let him take as ma’nykilfes as he' will, which yields him fucha mighty pleafure, that he can talk of noth-to him to ranfack alluhe academies of com¬pliments for fine tropes and figures to adornkifs tjie blotted charadlers ? But fee howfrefli pleafure croud upon him. Jhft'uowhe.is.told his mifirefs will be at a dancing*{ 6 }ir.g elic but the purple violet, the biufliingrole, and the lily wiitenefs; the pl-cenix nelt 1is not To perfumed as Hie; and to defcribeher perfun, .the riches of Mexico and Peruare far too mean to hand in competitionwith her: nay, alt the dazzling jewels ofthe Eaft njuft give way to her j'uperior luftre.But when they have drank .of the richeflwine, to recompence him for all his painsand charges, his rn ill refs oondefeends totreat him, by letting1 him tafle the charming Icherries cf her coral lips, and fuck fromthence the fragrant breath that far exceedsArabia’s rich perfume;'Wh-ich wraps himin fuch pleafure, that the young fparkx imagines he is in heaven. And if the veryway to matrimony be thus paved with de¬light, what rnuft the end of it be ? And trulywere it not fo, do you think the countryclown would plough and harrow, yet flingaway his fickle and flail f r the love ofAmarillis ?. Or, would the tradefman leavehis fhop but for the pleafures that attend it?It is this makes the apprentice court inhugger-mugger, and values not the lois ofhis freedom, when once captivated by thefair Sufannah’s bright eyes! So mightilytranfporting are tr.e pleafures cf wooing,,above any other pleafures in the worichBut if the pleafures of Wooing are fovery grer«tr then ^hat arc the plealures oi( 7 )f Wedding? Confent being given, and ike\ wedding refulved on, the lover has now freei nccefr, to his miflrd’s, and may kifs<i»boveboard as much as he ple'afes ; the which isiJ another vaft pleafure ! as it is alfo t< findI hi in fell the only welcome guef. in the houfe,and, as it were already inpoculated intol| the' family. And then it is another pleafure!] to hear every one commending his choice,: and telling him how amiable and .'virtuous‘ a wife lie had chofen. 'Vifiters croud ini! upon him,' efpedaJly of the fair feX, afking! a thoafard impertinent quelliorTs, whichmufl needs be great pleafure for him toanfwer. Q Sir ! when is the day, criesI Mrs. Prate-apaee. Pray, Sir, How near is; your happlnefs ? cries Tittle-tattle'. But,: in the mid ft of thefr impertinences; whata pleafure is it to the young man to feebis ni-'ther ele£t taking the women up, andI faying, Hold, neighbours, faif and foftlyt gees far ; file fhall not he married hugger-r mugger, my child lhall be married accord¬ing to her quality.; I am not for a ftolenmarriage, but every thing as it ought.But we will talk no more of prelimina ¬ries, but come to the. thing itfelf; for al?things being fettled, and' the ap'poihtfdmorning come, np gets the bridegroom, anddrefics him fell in all hi?,’gaudy at’dre,The b-i'idernaid haft mss to the bride’schamber, and there finds her waiiied,breathing nothing but eiTence and jcfiamine,and her fine holland fmock ready to put on;fo that being dreffed in a trice, file appearsmore like an angel than like a mortal.—She is fcarceiy dreited, when the bridegroomcomes into her chamber, with fubm ffireknees, adores his earthly deity, and kifiesthe lillies of her white hands, and ftps am-brofial nedtar from her lips, and then Con- Idudts her to the room of (late, where theyb )th (land to welcome their invited guells.And fare this pufl yield him much pleafure.Now, all things being ready, they takecoach, environed bv a great croud i f fpec-tators, of which n t one of them but muft- -ifay fomething. — There’s a • well-matchedcouple, fays one.—I'liere’s a lovely couple,fays another.—'i'here will be fweet d ingbetwixt them to-night, fays a third.—• And jthus the rabble run along, till the church-doors are that, and keep them from comingany farther. Then the knot is luckily tiedwhich can never be undone, but by thedeath of one of them. And therefore, afterthe ceremony of, “ I John, take thee Joan,to be my wedded wile; and ! Joan, takethee John,? &c. they go from church again,and fir ft receive the joy of the beggars, the.kridegromrij for the wedding, throwing tut( 9 )amongft them a handful of fmall money,.which fets them a-icrambling; then takingc ach, they return to the place fr on whencethey let out, attended by the rabblie, which,is a mark of greatnel's with the ignorant.Being come into the dining-room, theguefts of courfe mud all fdute the bridet1and, in return, the bridegroom m'uft faluteall the young women; and this mud fare be!l .a great pleafure to him. This ufual forma¬lity being over, the bridegroom then drinks. a bumper to the whole ullcmb’y.By, this time dinner is upon the table,and marfhalled with as much formality asa Lord Mayor’s jeaft. After the parfonfays grace, they fall to without any furtherceremony; and here comes a new pleafureto the bridegroom, to fee all the gut0.3 ad-drefs their glades to the bride, and after-vvards to him. And it will be a pleafureextraordinary to him, if he can but keephimfelf f<>ber till he goes to bed. Nor is itLfs pleafure to hear the difeourfe at thestable aker the fecond courfe, when a jolly’, red nofed toper, a pot-com pinion, of thebride’s father, began, laying, Marriage wasinftituted in a ftate of inhocency, nay, eveuin Paradife ; and that without it, the churchwould want pallors, and t)ie kingdom foldiersto defend it. Nay, farther, ;l;at childrsu( IO )are bleffings from heaven; and thereforebarrennet’s vvas accvunted the greatelt lean--dal in the world among the Jewifh women:Aye, and by the Englifh women too, re¬plies a grave old matron.; and I fhould beiorry that my young mUlrel's here (as wellfor my own fake as hers) Aiould be under‘that curie; for I hope ere ten months, tocarry her firft boy to the font..Dinner being over, the Parfoti blelTesthem : then the midwife comes to the bride¬groom, faying, Nov/, happy man, .for amaidenhead I But there is great diferetionto be ufed in the gathering of it; it muft begently Cropped, for fear < f !’p ilhig; for, ifyou go too boilleroufly to work, you'll pullit up by the roots; but, if you do it juft bydegrees, it is young and tender, and you’llfind it coming.We will now fuppofe the afternoon wornout by dancing, to the great pleafure ofthe fpedtators; and the night being begun,the bride is ftolen away from the company,hnd put to bed, and, after her, the bride¬groom, now ready to confummate the big-heftjoys of matrimony • But, though the bride¬groom now thinks each minute an age tillhe reaps the longed-for bu t of all his amo¬rous expectations, he is ftill obliged t<> waitwith patience; for up comes the lack p 11ct,'4‘ (( 11 )i1 which th« women think will make the bricte-groom kind and lufty too; nor can the brideand bridegroom, get rid of this unnecelTaryceremony, until fome. good compaffionatelady throw, on purpcfe, the Hocking intothe poffet, when (lie pretended to throw itat the bride. This caufcd the fack-pofletto be taken away ; which being done, itonly remains now to kifs the women round,and f; depart, whilil the bride's mother; locks fafl the door, and takes away the key,that none may interrupt them.They now being b^th l.Tc alone, th5bridegroom, without any cV ttbt, improveshid time; and therefore let this fuffije, thatthey now revel in thofe joys they net longbefore durlt hardly think of: And for thebridegroom, as Garew expretfes it,.N’ow bis enfranchis'd band on every fide.May o'er her r/ibed polish'd ivory glideNo curtain no'iv, o'er the transparent lawn,Js there before her virgin treasure drawn.jVow, void cj all offence, be may beholdHer bosom bare, and her unbraided ‘‘old.After he'lias revelled in biifd all night.Ins fair Ip uife’s mother coroes to them inthe morning, to enquire how her deareftdaughter does; Yet tne f:m is fir ft fafuted,with, oon, how find you yeurieif now ?-—( )So well, fays he, that I imagine I have beenthis night in Paradife I Then ihe puts intoIm'hand n-plate of comfortable fweiv’-mta's,cohliding cf Confections 8cc. f r his fomfe0 \ a *and him to regale themfelves; which dotfe,ihe fills them a bowl of mufcadihs, and3 drops therein a new laid egg, which thebridegroom.prei'enting to the partner of his ■pieafnre, the mother fids another for firnifelf)which, without entreating, he then drankquickly off, — But Mother Midnight-, wholongs to know how the bridegroom has per¬formed, and how many attacks he has made Icn the virgin fort, comes to the bride, and,with a whifper in her ear, will have her'toconfefs ; but the lady replies only with a !blufii, which makes the bridegroom guefswhat fine means; and therefore tells her, itis an unfair queftion as yet; you ought, -fay she, to tarry till we rife; and, fince v'eare recruited thus, pray tarry-till the phyfic jhas done working, and then take the wholeaccount together. Upon this, the motherand midwife retires; and to digeft whatthey have eaten and drank, the dear coup'stake a nap. But the drums and trumpets,begin to found, and, in a moment, the ftreet ,is full of-beuediCli-ms to the bride and bride¬groom ; and this mult be another p Jen fare.1\ iw the bridegroom, n^t willing- to paymoney'Ur nothing,’ gets up and donees-tothe mafic; and this mull be a great plea-j fure, for all the fenfes are thereby pleafcdat onge, and produce exquifxte joy 1Now, the next day is fpent in beingtreated by the bride-men at a tavern ; andthere can be now room Lr nothing but thehighelb entertainment and jovalty.The pleafures qf the wedding being nowever—Over! did I fay ? I beg your pardon;they are fo far from being over, that theycontinue while they live together. Andtherefore I fhould fay, being thus begun,•they are attended by another pleafure, andthat is houfe-keeping. Now, time beginsto jog the bridegroom by the elbow, andtell him he ought to mind his bufinefs; forbags will foon grow empty unlefs filledagain.—And what is his pleafure now, butthe bufmefs of houfe-keeping, and to get allthings for it. He that goes a-b?rrowing,goes a-forrowkig, as the old prot’erb fays.And fure the woman is in an ill condition,who is obliged to borrow every thing thatfhe wants.Nov, if Hie would be finer than the redof her neighbours, it is the hufband’s re¬putation and that mull give hi.nj pleafnre.Good hoifewifery; and right management,mrke thirds lall long. It is indeed thehonour id mea to fee cleaniinefs; nor do( *4 )they Inve holes in their flocking heels, nor .that their r f&es ihould hang like bell-ropes: iand yet they Icorn to fet the leafl Hitch inthem themfelves. So, therefore, to havea wife that will take care to have everything done for him, mull needs be a plea-fure to him.—-And what if fometimes fhewants a Venetian Carpet, or a little ChinaWare; furely no man in his wits wouldquarrel with his wife about fuch trifles,when all fh >uld red mhd to his reputation,ifray. fuppofe fhe has a mind for a filverCoffee or Tea P t, or a pair of filver Scon¬ces, where is the harm of it ? Certainly,the more plate a man has, the richer he L: |This ought therefore to be a plesfure to hifn.And I can afiure you, of my own knowledge,there are feveral hufbands would be gladtheir wives had fuch things. B^fides, fuChfilings fet out a room, and make the kitchen,if the houfe be kept clean, have £ reputationamong the neighbours. Stich a one’s houfelooks like a paradife, fays one.—‘•It woulddo one’s heart good to look at it, cries ano.ther. And all will grant, it is the moftprovident way for a man to fpend but littleabroad, and keep the bettor houfe at home;and if fo, he may well permit bfs wife toentertain her friends now and then, w ithoutprejudice to her Hulband’s eflate; for'a glafsof wine lades as well at home as abroad ;and a Capon may be cheaper dreffed in his( 15 )| own kitchen than at a French ordinary.—And, as for women wearing fine clothes,which fome objeft again!!, I fay it is forlj the honour of the nation in general, andiriftfl. be a particular pleafure to the hufband,to fee his wife as fine as her neighbours.But there is another pleafure attendsupon matrimony, and that is, if he hasi married a wife who has got a relation ini the country; and it is ten to one but Ihe has,(for women do not rife out of the earth likepompions, but their pedigree had fomewhereor other a beginning. If the woman has not,perhaps the man has. And whether theirrelations be by the man or the woman, it isno matter; and therefore, when they haveonce contra&ed matrimony, all their rela¬tions muft be acquainted with it. And,in return, they rauft fend him a letter,wherein they tell him, they fllall be veryglad to fee them both in the country.Upon this, (lie is willing to fee her friendsbef re her lying in, (for we will fnppofe herto be with child -already); and the man isno lefs ambitious to iet his kindred fee hisnice choice.—And let r.S fuppofe the youngi ■ man fhoulJ have a mind to give his wifean airing in the country, marry, 1 think itis a plealure to him to take a frifk in thecountry for a month or two; and then to{ 16 )have the four bells in the fteeple fet a jing¬ling f -r j y, U lumm ns the inhabitants ofthe village to c^me and Hire at the brideand bridegroom. And when they havebe n 1 grandly entertained by one Cnufm,to mike a tour to another, and there tohave ail the welcomes renewed again, mullneeds be a marvellous picafure to them bath,and m're efpecully'to .the huftnnd, to* ieehis wife fo careffed, anh made To much of, 1among" his friends.But, perhaps, after all this great pleafure,there is a fad complaint, that the youngwoman is not with child. This much re¬dounds to the youilg man’s difgrace, and isa very great damp to the pleafures of mat¬rimony.—But hold! not f> fail, my friend;pray let all things be well confidered, andthe .hare’s foot fet again/l the goofe’s giblets;for, if there be no children, there is the lelscharge. And yet the pleafures of the bedare ftill the fame ; and as they live in theconftant ufe of the means, who can tell whatmay come of it ? Rome was not built inone day. I doubt not but it is an allay tomany* a one’s no^l u nal pleafures, to fhinkup >n the charge he is bringing up' n himfelf,by fatisfying a little amorous itch; but when, .he hath d ne it, and done it, and done itagain, find finds there is no danger, then hrfalls to it without fear or wits.( n );! . Befufes, there is another eonyenieacy;,'ll'which is this, they may live more plenty;j fully : There are no portions to provide furi children, when others are Treed to fell part,and fometimes all their patrimony, to pro. vide portions for their children-Bnt all this does not_fatisfy the youngwoman. She fancies there is fume peculiarpleafure when a child is gotten, and firelongs to know it. And what makes herthe more eager is, file is upbraided by herI neighbours : What l fays one pratting goflip,are you not quick yet, neighbour ? No,nothing like it, nor towards it, as I know of.. Lack-a-dayt cries Hie again, I han’t beeni nfarried thirteen months, and yet this'childis a quarter old. Aye, fays the young wo¬man with a ftgh, you have bellowed, you,!*time well: I have been married ndar eightmonths, and yet there is no, fign of any thingcoming. She hod fcarce fpoke, before ano¬ther goffip laid hold of the la ft words : How!laid Ihe, married near eight, months, andnothing coming ! Believe me, there’s a faulton one fide or the other. Do you think onaof my age and C' mpietxlon can be in thefault I I know myfelf T well, that I willleave all the world to judge of me.  Patience a Hule, cries another of the gang,I-have known fome women who were notwith child till they' had been married two( i3 •)er three years. What I and you would haveme ftay fo long; hut I allure you, ueighhour,you an* miftaken. Juit in the middle ofthis confabulation in comes another, andtells them fbe had been at Mrs. Breedwell’slying :n. fl uv ! fays, an: ther, is my neigh¬bour Breedwell brought t '-bed ? Yes. ofa fine lufly boy, replies the other. Howlong has fhe been married ? fays the youngwoman. About eight months, replies theother. Adds heartikin 1 cries flie, abouteight months 1 Why, I have been marriedfo long rttyfelf, and do not know I am yetwith child. -*This curious debate held them a longtime, and had not been ended fo foon, hadlicit one, who was fomewhat wifer than thereft, come tn, and, addrefting herfeif to the-complainant, flie faid, Miftrefs, this cafe isdifficult, but the bell way to receive fatif-faftion is, to go home and take an exaCldimenfion of your'huil)and>s inllmnient, asto length and compafs, and then we maybe able to form a better judgment; but tillthen we can fay nothing positive. Anotheradvtfed her to make much of him, andivmrifh him up well with yolkes of eggs,nvliers. c^ck-Hones, craw fifh, fttate, lob-fters. pefriwinkles, beef, marrow, fliirrets,v/ith fome mufcadine, or tent. The youngwoman heard da’.s; but imagined thatC 19 ):ijall her coft would be thrown away, if hiehad n t her full meafure; and accordingly'produced it the next time of meeting, which,1 as they furveyed, filledhhem with admira-iltionl which one of them expreffcd in this;manner: Neighbour, there is fonie othercaufe why you are not got with child; if' this he the right meafure, I do fwear youri hu&und is a man every inch of him, and; therefore mull needs-tell you that the faulti is not in him. I know not h 'W ,it is, faidjl the young woman, very difconfdately, but1 I am fure I have given the exadlefi and;! truell meafure.—But, that the woman mightijl not be cafl down, Come, come, laid one ofIthe good natured creatures, who was forforwarding the buft efs, do not be call down,but ufe means, and you may yet have child¬ren enough ; for I know a young marriedcouple ju!l in your cafe, and by the adviceof a worthy and learned phyfician, the wife1was got with child very effectually ; and this' was the whole procefs of the buiinefs:The Doctor advifed the hulbind to gointo the country, and Hay with his unctefor a fortnight, and then return home; buthe ordered it fo, that *he tail day "Is journeymight be an eafy one; and the wife hadnotice <>f his coining, and drtffed herfelf inall the gaity fhe could devife, and hada good fupper of light digellioc, ready to1{ ™ )put on the table at his arrival; expolmmto his view her fine iv ry neck and lily-bofom bare : And three hours-after Air perHie counfelled him t<' bed there to take his'red a while. Then, being both awake, helaid his hand upon the mount of Venus,ar d talked to her all th* foft things which,love could dictate to him; and when he,by Aich afnoruus difcourfes, had wroughthis fpirits up to the highed pitch, then tofall on, and feaft himfelf with love’s delight* iful dainties. In fnort, the D '£tor’s counfelwas obferved to a nicety, and the.Aicc.efsanfwered their exps&ation; and not them-felves alone, but others too have found itsefficacious effcfts.Now, tell me, all ye enemies to Marriage, !what pfeafure can a man imagine is greater-than fra man thus to give his wife and-him A if a fecret and mutual iatisla£Vion. |You will be apt to fay. Are thefe all fthe pleafures of matrimony? I an Aver, No < ,not one tenth part of theme.—But my defignis to delight, not to furfeit you.I (hall next pr ceed to give a few words•f advice to thofe.whivare married, and fuCr^clhde this delightful Abject.( 21 )A • 'jj>{ ; . j, , 1 . - ; ... ,»r • .. .Word of Advicer *f ■ i - \ .k 'TOTHE M A R R IE D.*—ccccoo^Jooooooq—/v>PHILOSOPHERS obferve. that it isvain for a man to repine at that whichhe cannot help ; and lure I am, thereis no'greater tolly in the world, thanlor a man, after he has got married,to find fault with his wite that Ihej has no children ; tor that is a thing,whatever the caule may b^, which5 neither party can help.Therefore, my bed advice to allfuch perlbn'j is, that they fhoidd reftthemfelves contented with whatevertheir lot may he in that refpt<ft, and^endeavour to live in peace and lovewith the partner o,f their choice, andin the ufe ol the appoinLtd mean.( 21 )M'any perfons have been very longmarried before they had Children,and after all have had very largefamilies. But as that is what nonecan properly account for, nor help,there ought to be no reflexions oneither fide againfl one-another.Of all the evils that attend themarried Hate, when love is wanting,jealoufy is the greateft. And how canjt otherwife be, and efpecially wherethere is the v^ry leafl ground givenfor f uch a fufpjcion ? Therefore Iwould advife all new married perfonsin particular, to beware of harbour¬ing that diabolical difpofkion againftthe partner of. their life; for if it beonce alldvved a place in the heart ofeither man or woman, it will gatherfitch ftrength, as it may be the meanof fpoiling all iheir future happinefsever alter during life.Love and harmony in the marriedAate, is the greateft beauty in theft rid of nature ; for what is the valueof the enjoyment of all odter things-without this ? Riches and the grtatefi:fulneis cannot afford fatisfaction, if;i]ovt and afTeftion be flrangers in thefamily Therefore, to cultivate andipraclife thefe focial endearnimts inhuman life, ouglit to enoa<j;e the at-teniiqn and be the con (lane fludy ofliall thole who would wiHi to make 1the marriage-flate what it was origi¬nally ciefigned to be, viz. A Heavenupon earth.A man fliould chufe fuch a wife^liias he could put up with, whether file[have children or not: But there is ajiflrong propenfity in the j^atures of«iboth men and women, when married,ill to fee a fair image or themfelves; andI if this propenfity be not gratified,I; the worlt of con(equences|may enfue,S if proper care be not taken, and that1 defire prudently managed.When facrifiees of old were offeretiI to the god Juno, who (the HeathensI believed) prefided oyer marriages,J the gall or the vieffun was thrownif behind the altar, to fbew that noI fbch thing a^ biuernefi ought to be<II among married perfons,•\ .I *■(n aw T)Though Solomon’s ckTcriptiort ofa wile and good woman, may bethought too mean and mechanicalfor this refined generation : yet cer-tain it is. that the boimefs of a familyis the mbft profitable and the moffchonourable ftudy they can employthemfelves in. Women (liould beacquainted, that no beamy hath anycharms, but the inward one of themind ; and that agracefulnefs in their,manners is much more engaging thanthat of their perfons; that meeknelsand modeftv are the true and ladingornaments5; For die that hath thefe,is qualified ns die ought to be forthe management of a family, lor theeducation oi children, for an affecHonto her hufband, and Submitting toa prudent way of living Tliefe onlyare the charms that render wivesamiable and give them the bed thisto man’s refbedt.FINIS.