<@ DESCRIPTION OFmMOUNT VESUVIUS® IFit/i an Account of its various Eruptions.<g)TO WHICH IS ADDED,THE DOG OF MONTARGIS,A very Singular and True Story.8sik Selection ofSlmuetnff ansj BnetruttiljfREADING;COMPRISING THEM MEMOIRS AND' ANECDOTES ®| S»tn3ular ^ I2crfntric Cf)ara(tev0, ®I HISTORICAL FACTS, AND ©I) ©I GEOGRAPHICAL DESCRIPTIONS, &c., &c„ (ig)^Collected from Costly and Hare V/orks,BY JOHN NICHOLSON,©PRINTER AND PUBLISHER,@3>, KIRKCUDBRIGHTMOUNT VESUVIUS, NEAR NAPLES: ITS DESCRIP¬TION AND VARIOUS ERUPTIONS.The fluid lake that works below7,•Bitumen, sulphur, salt, and iron scum,Heaves up its boiling tide. The lab’ring mountIs torn with agonizing throes. At once,Forth from.its side (|isparted, blazing poursA mighty river; burning in prone waves,That glimmer thro’ the night, to yonder plain,Divided^ there a hundred torrent streams,Each ploughing up its bed, roll dreadful on,Resistless. Villages, and woods, and rocks,Fall flat before their sweep. The region round,Where myrtle walks and groves of golden fruitHose fair ; where harvest waved in all its pride;And where the vineyard spread its purple store,Maturing into nectar ; now7 despoiledOf herb, leaf, fruit and flower, from end to endLies buried under fire, a glowing sea !•Mallet.This celebrated volcano, which has for somany ages attracted the attention of mankind,and the desolating eruptions of which havebeen so often and so fatally experienced, isdistant in an eastern direction, about sevenmiles from Naples, It rises, insulated, upona vast and well-cultivated plain, presentingtwo summits on the same base, in which par¬ticular it resembles Mount Parnassus. Oneof these, La Somma, is generally agreed tohave been the Vesuvius of Strabo and theancients ; the other, having the greatest ele-4ration, is the mouth of the volcano, which al¬most constantly emits smoke. Its height abovethe level of the sea is 3,900 feet, anti it maybe ascended by three different routes, which areall very steep and difficult, from the' conicalform of the mountain, and the loose asheswhich slip from under the feet; still fromthe base to the summit, the distance is notmore than three Italian miles, The circum¬ference of the platform on the top is 5,024feet, or nearly a mile. Thence may be seenPortici, Capraea, Ischia, Pausilippo, and thewhole coa' t of the gulf of Naples, borderedw ith orange trees; the prospect is that ofParadise seen from that of the infernal re¬gions.On approaching the mountain, its aspectdoes not convey any impression of terror, noi¬ls it gloomy, being cultivated for more thantwo-thirds of its height, and having its broivntop alone barren. There all verdure ceases;yet, when it appears covered with clouds,which sometimes encompass its middle only,this circumstance rather adds to, than de¬tracts from, the magnificence of the spectacle.Upon the lavas which the volcano long agoejected, and which, like great furrows, extendinto the plain, and to the sea, are builthouses, villages, and towns. Gardens, vine-yards, and cultivated fields, surround them ;but a sentiment of sorrow, blended with ap-5prehensions about the future, arises on therecollection that, beneath a soil so fruitfuland so smiling, lie edifices, gardens, and wholetowns swallowed up. Portici rests uponHerculaneum ; its environs upon Resina ;and at a little distance is Pompeii, in thestreets of which, after more than seventeencenturies of non-existence, the astonishedtraveller now walks. After a long intervalof repose, in the first year of the reign ofTitus, (the seventy-ninth of the Christianera,) the volcano suddenly broke out, ejectingthick clouds of ashes and pumice-stones, be¬neath which Herculaneum, Stabia, and Pom¬peii, were completely buried. This eruptionwas fatal to the elder Pliny, the historian,who fell a victim to his humanity and loveof science. Kven at this day, in speaking ofVesuvius, the remembrance of his untimelydeath excites a melancholy regret. All thecoast to the east of the gulf of Naples was,on the above occasion, ravaged and destroyed,presenting nothing but a long succession ofejected matters from Herculaneum to Stabia,The destruction did not, however extend tothe western part, but stopped at Naples,which suffered comparatively little.Thirty-eight eruptions of Vesuvius are re¬corded in history.up to the year 1806. Thatof 1779 has been described by Sir WilliamHamilton as among the roos* remarkable*6from its extraordinary and terrific apy ear-ance. During tire whole of July, the moun¬tain was in a state of considerable fermenta¬tion, subterraneous.explosion and rumblingnoises being heard, and quantities of smokethrown up with great violence, sometimeswith red-hot stones, scoriae, and ashes. Onthe 5th of August, the volcano was greatlyagitated, a white sulj hureous smoke, ap] a- |rently four times the height and size of thevolcano itself, is. uing from the crater, at thesame time that vast quantities cf stones, &e.were thrown up to the supposed height ofLOOO f. et The liquid lava, having clearedthe rim of the crater, flowed down the sidesof the mounta’n to the distance of four miles.The air was darkened by showers of redd shashes, blended with long filaments of a vitri¬fied matter resembling glass.On the 7th, at midnight, a fountain offire shot up from the crater to an incredibleheight, casting so bright a light that thesmallest objects were clearly distingu'shableat any place within six mi cs of the volcano.On the following evening, after a tremendousexplosion, which broke the windows of thehouses at Portici, another fountain cf liqu'dfire rose t) the surprising height of 10,000feet, (nearly two miles,) while pull's of theblackest smoke accompanied the red-hot lave,interrupting its splendid brightness here andVthere by patches of the darkest hue. TheJava was partly directed by the wind towardsOttaiano, on which so thick a shower of ashes,blended with vast pieces of scoria;, fell, that,had it been of longer continuance, that townwould have shared the fate of Pompeii. Ittook fire in several places p and, had therebeen much wind, the inhabitants would have■been burned in their houses, it being impos¬sible for them to stir out. To add to the■ horror of the scene, incessant volcanic light-: ning darted through the black cloud whichsurr unded thorn, while the sulphureous smelland heat would scarcely allow' them to drawtheir breath. In this dreadful state they re-mained nearly half an hour. The remaining| part of the lava, still-red hot and liquid, fellon the top of Vesuvius, and covered its whole)! cone, together with that of La Sornma, and1 the valley between them, thus forming oneji| complete body of fire, which could not be lessI than two miles and a half in breadth, and« casting a heat to the distance of at least sixmiles around.The eruption of 17T1 is accurately de¬scribed by the foregoing writer ; but has notan equal degree cf interest with the one al¬ready cited. We subjoin a few particulars,among which is a circumstance well deservingnotice, as it leads to an estimate of the de¬gree of heat in volcanoes. Sir William saysAjs\that, although the town of Torre del Grecowas instantly surrounded with red-hot lava,the inhabitants saved themselves by comingout of the tops of their houses on the follow¬ing day. It is evident, observes Mr Kirwan,that if this lava had been hot enough to melteven the most fusible stones, these personsmust have been suffocated.This eruption happened on the 15th ofJune, at ten o’clock at night, and was an¬nounced by a shock of an earthquake, whichwas distinctly felt at Naples At the samemoment a fountain of bright fire, attendedwith a very black smoke and a loud report,was seen to issue, and rise to a considerableheight, from about the middle of the cone ofVesuvius. It was hastily succeeded by otherfountains, fifteen of which were counted, allin a direct line, tending, for the space of a-bout a mile and a half downward, towardsthe towns of Kesina and Torre del Greco.—This fiery scene—this great operation of na¬ture—was accompanied by the loudest thun¬der, the incessant reports of which, like thoseof a numerous heavy artillery, were attendedby a continued hollow murmur, similar tothat of the roaring of the ocean during a \ i-olent storm. Another blowing noise resem¬bled that of the ascent of a large flight ofrockets. The houses at Naples were forseveral hours in a constant tremor, the doorsVy : ; . —WmKmm9ami windows shaking and rattling incessantly,,and the hells ringing. At this awful mo¬ment the sky, from a bright full moon andstar-light, became obscured ; the moon seem¬ed eclipsed, and was soon lost in obscurity.—'I he murmur of the prayers and lamentationsof a numerous population, forming variousprocessions, and parading the streets, addedto the horrors of the scene.On the following day a new mouth wasopened on the opposite side of the mountain,facing the town of Ottaiano : from this aper¬ture a considerable stream of lava issued, andran with great velocity through a wood, whichit burnt: but stopped, after having run aboutthree miles in a few hours, before it reachedthe vineyards and cultivated lands. The lava,which had flowed from several new mouthson the south side of the mountain, reachedthe sea, into which it ran after having over¬whelmed, burnt, and destroyed the greaterpart of the Torre del Greco, through thecentre of which it took its course. Thistown contained about 18,000 inhabitants, allof whom escaped, with the exception of aboutfifteen, who, through age-or infirmity, wereoverwhelmed in their houses by the lava.—Its rapid progress was such, that the goodsand effects were entirely abandoned.It was ascertained some time after, that aconsiderable part of the crater had fallen in.10so as to have given a great extensionmouth of Vesuvius, which •was conjectured tohe nearly two miles in circumference. Thissinking of the crater was chiefly on the west.■ ide, opposite Naples, and, in all probability.occurred early in the morning of the 18th,when a violent shock cf an earthquake wasfelt at Resina, and other places situated atthe foot of the volcano. The clouds of smokewhich issued from this now widely-extendedmouth of Vesuvius were ofsuch a density asto appear to force their passage with the ut¬most difficulty. One cloud heaped itself onanother, and succeeding each other incessant¬ly, they formed in a few hours such a giganticand elevated column, of the darkest hue, overthe mountain, as seemed to threaten Napleswith immediate destruction, it having at onetime been bent over the city, and appearingto be much too massive and ponderous to re¬main long suspended in the air.From the above timeuntil 1801, Vesuviusremained in a state of almost constant tran¬quillity. Symptoms of a fresh eruption hadmanifested themselves for several months,,when at length, on the night of the 1th ofAugust, a deep roaring was heard at the Her¬mitage of Salvador, and the places adjacentto the mountain, accompanied by shocks ofan earthquake which were sensibly hit atResina, On the following morning, at noon,.11a thick black smoke rose from the mouth ofthe crater, which, dilating prodigiously, cover¬ed the whole volcano, in the evening loudexplosions were heard ; and at Naples a co¬lumn of tire was seen to rise from the aperture,carrying up stones in a state of complete ig¬nition, which fell again into the crater. Thenoise by which these igneous explosions wereaccompanied resembled the roaring of themost dreadful tempest, and the whistling ofthe most furious winds; wlule the celeritywith which the substances were ejected wassuch, that the first emissmn had not teirni-r.ated when it was succeeded by a second.-—Small monticules were at this time formed ofa fluid matter, resembling a vitreous paste of ared colour, which flowed from the month ofthe crater ; and these 1 ecame more consider¬able in proportion as the matter accumulat¬ed.In this state the eruption continued forseveral days, the fire being* equally intense,with frequent and dreadful noises. On theT'-th, amid these fearful symptoms, anotheraperture, ejecting fire and stones situatedbehind the crater, was seen from Naph s ■—The burning mass of lava which escaped fromthe crater on the following day was dis¬tinguished from Tone del Greco, having theappearance of a vitreous fluid, and advancingtowards the base of the mountain betweenthe south and south-west. It reached thebase on the 30th, having flowed from theaperture in less than twenty-four hours, adistance of 3,053 feet, while its mean breadthappeared to be about 350, but at the base860 feet. In its course it divided into fourbranches, and finally reached a spot called theGuide’s lletreat. Its entire progress to thispoint was more than a mile, so that, takinga mean proportion, this lava flowed at therate of eighty-six feet an hour.At the time of this eruption Kotzebue wasat Naples. Vesuvius lay opposite to hiswindow, and when it was dark he could clear¬ly perceive in what manner the masses of firerolled down the mountain. As long as anyglimmering of light remained, that part ofthe mountain was to be seen, on the declivityof which the lava formed a straight butoblique line. As soon, however, as it wasperfectly dark, and the mountain itself hadvanished from the eye, it seemed as if a cometwith a long tail stood in the sky. The spec¬tacle was awful and grand !He ascended the mountain on the morn¬ing succeeding the opening of a new gulf,and approached the crater as nearly as pru¬dence would allow. From its centre ascend¬ed the sulphureous yellow cone which theeruption of this year had formed : on theother side a thick smoke perpetually aroseis . — v.« 5 .' .. ,413from the abyss opened during the precedingnight. The side of the crater opposite tohim, which rose considerably higher than thaton which he stood, afforded a singular as-! pect; for it was covered with little pillars of! smoke, which burst forth from it, and hadsome resemblance to extinguished lights.—The air over the crater was actually em¬bodied, and was clearly to be seen in a tre*mulous motion. Below, it boiled and roareddreadfully, like the most violent hurricane;but occasionally a sudden deadly stillness en¬sued for some moments, after which the roar¬ing recommenced with double vehemence,and the smoke burst forth in thicker andblacker clouds. It was, he observes, as if thespirit of the mountain had suddenly tried tostop the gulf, while the flames indignantly! refused to endure the confinement.It is remarkable that the great eruptioni of 1805 happened on the 12th of August,within a day of that of the preceding year.—'! Subterraneous noises had been previously, heard, and a general apprehension of someviolent commotion prevailing, the inhabitantsof Torre del Greco and Annunciata had lefttheir homes, through the apprehension of ashower of tire and ashes, similar to that which! buried Pompeii. The stream of lava tocki the same course with that of 1791, describedabove, one of the arms following the dircc-#IItion of the ijreat road, and rolling towards |the sea. The stream soon divided again, |and, spreading itself with an increased cele-1rity, swept away many houses and the finest |plantations. The other branch, at first, took 1the direction of Portici, which was threaten-1cd ; but turning, and joining the preceding |cue, formed a sort of islet of boiling lava in |the midule, both ending in the sea, and com¬posing a promontory of volcanic matters.In the space of twenty minutes the whole ex¬tent of ground which the lava occupied wason fire, offering a terrible yet singular spec¬tacle, as the burning trees presented the as¬pect of white fames, in contrast with thoseof the volcanic matters, which were red. 1 helava swept along with it enormous masses ofwhatever occurred in its course, and on its) reaching the sea, nothing was to he seen orheard for a great extent of shore besides theboiling and hissing arising from the conflictof.the water and fire.\ The eruption of 1806. took place withoutany sensible indication, on the evening of the81st of May, when a bright fame rose fromthe mountain to the height of about (:00 feet,-sinking and rising-alternately, and affordingso clc; r a light, tl at a letter might have beenread at the distance of a league around themountain. On the following morning, with¬out any earthquake preceding, as had been15customary the volcano began to eject inflam¬ed substances from three new mouths, prettynear to' each other, and about 6'50 feet fromthe summit. 'File lava took the direction ofTorre del Greco and Annuncrata, approach¬ing Portici, on the road leading from Naplesto Pompeii. Throughout the whole of the2nd of June, a noise was heard, resemblingthat of two armies engaged, when the dis¬charges of artillery and musketry are verybrisk. The current of lava now resembled awall of glass in a state of fusion, sparks andflashes issuing from it from time to time,with a powerful detonation. Vines, trees,houses,—whatever objects, in short, it en¬countered on its way, were instantly over¬thrown or destroyed. In one part, where itmet with the resistance of a wall, it formeda cascade of fire. In a few days, Pertici, Re¬sina, and Torre del Greco, were covered withashes thrown cut by the volcano ; and, on theninth, the two former places were delugedwith a thick black rain, consisting of a speciesof mud filled with sulphureous partie’es. Onthe 1st of July, the ancient crater had whollydisappeared, being filled w ith ashes and lava,and a new one was formed in the eastern partof the mountain, about 6() ) feet in depth,and hav:n.g about the same width at the open-mg. Several persons, on the above day, de¬scended about halfway dawn this new mouth,and remained half an hour very near theflames, admiring the spectacle presented bythe liquid lava, which bubbled up at thebottom of the crater, like the fused matter ina glass-house.. This eruption continued un¬til September, made great ravages, and was I!considered as one of the most terrible thathad occurred in the memory of the inhabi¬tants.It now remains only to notice the late veryrecent eruptions which commenced on the20th of October, about 12 o’clock. A dread¬ful internal noise was heard throughout theneighbourhood ; the lava began to appear,and soon flowed in a torrent about a milebroad. The next day a second body of lava,half a mile in breadth, issued forth, and cover¬ed the old lava on the side of J3osco-Tre-Case; a third and fourth stream soon after¬wards burnt forth.The following particulars of the progressof the eruption are from private letters :—“ Naples, Oct. 2.-3.—You will have heard,my dear brother, before this reaches you, ofthe awfully grand eruption of AYsuvius.—Nothing similar has been witnessed sinceJ 794, when the town of Torre del Greco,situated at about four miles from the crater,was partly destroyed. During the eveningof the 21 st, a little smoke appeared, and dis- •tinct reports of artillery, as it seemed, pro- -eeedetl from that part of the hay. Had thesky not been perfectly serene, one would haveconsidered it to be thunder. Towards nineo’clock, however, a little fire appeared at the| old crater, and left us no longer in doubt a-bout the cause of the intonations. At a fewminutes past 11, it burst forth in all its fury,throwing out stones to a great height. Inthree hours afterwards, the lava rolled forthin two grand streams, one taking towardsResina, where the King’s villa, called LaFavorita, is situated, and the other incliningin a more southerly direction to Torre delAnnunciata The torrent of lava which flowstowards Resina has already covered 100 acres■of ground. The showers of ashes darken the| sky, and fall even in the streets of the capital.The stones which have fallen at Bosco-Tre-i Case have accumulated to the height of five[ palms. The eruptions of stones are frequent,j and the sounds which issue from the moun-| tain are frightful. All the people who livednear the volcano have fled. About 800 per¬sons from the neighbouring villages havebeen received by order of the police and pre¬fecture.*• Oct. 25.—The fire seems to-day to bespent, but as the wind has changed to thesouth-east, or, as it is called feirocco, thesmoke and ashes have come over Naples, andthe mountain, with Portici, and all along the18i'ay, are invisible, while at mid-day torches•are almost necessary, and umhrellasxabsolute-ly so- i he King’s villa at Resina was yes¬terday stripped of its furniture, and I maysay that the whole line of coast, from Porticito Castel-a-Mar, lias been abandoned, unlesswe expect the curious who flock in crowds tosee what is passing. The eruption of cindersand smoke at this moment presents the ap¬pearance af a very thick and elevated blackcone, which the wind blows towards Somma,Ottajano. and Nola. The number of indi¬viduals who fled from these villages augment¬ed considerably yesterday. 1 .ast night about2000 of these unfortunate persons receivcelpecuniary assistance.“ Oct 26.—We expect that the eruptionwill soon entirely cease. The columns ofcinders and smoke ore decreasing, and thedetonations are dess frequent and loud thanheretofore. Most of t ie people who had fledare returning to their homes. It rained co¬piously hist night, which has had the effectof purifying the atmosphere, which before wasfilled with clouels of black ashes. The sum¬mit of Vesuvius is visible, and it appearsthat the dreadful eruption which has takenplace has torn away a part of the crest of thevolcano.Oct 28.—This eruption is completidy atan end ; but violent explosions of cinders still19continue. The inhabitants of the Torre delGreco have suffered no other injury than what, arises from their being in a great part cover¬ed with ashes and stones. A portion of theterritory of Resina is covered with lava, butonly where lava had formerly lain. Thetower of the Annunciatahas sustained injurieswhich it will not be easy either to estimateor repair. i\t Ottaiano, the fire hasconsum-: ed 50 acres of Wood. These are all the de¬tails which have hitherto reached us.”The following additional particulars of- this interesting event are contained in an-i other private letter from Naples, dated Oc¬tober 29:—“-Vesuvius is comparatively quiet, but itstill throws out immense columns of smoke,and the lapillo and fine ashes, cont nue torain round the country according to -the di¬rection of the wind. Yesterdav the windblew' over Naples, and it was a very rainyday. To my surprise, on going cut, I foundj that the water winch fell was of the colour ofmud ; indeed so thickly wras it mixed with a-shower of the fine volcanic ashes, that it hasbesmeared the houses and trees, and everytnmg exposed, in a most curious manner.1 he first stream of lava thrown out atthe west side of the crater, was about half amile in breadth ; it passed between the her¬mitage of San Salvatore and the ruins of alittle country house belonging to the King,and descended towards Resina. After hav¬ing damaged a considerable deal of land, itstopped at a spot called II Monte.“ The second came out at the same time,and from the same mouth as the first; it wasabout two miles broad, and descended towardsthe village called Bosco di tre Case; but asit run over former lava, it did no injury.“ The third proceeded from a mouth thatopened during this eruption low down thesides of the volcano; it ran towards the placecalled II Monte, hut it also flowing over oldlava, did no injury. The second and thirdstopped nearly in the same place,“ The fourth and last descended from anold mouth called Vulcano, on the souths;de; reaching Pedementina, it joined itselfwith a smaller stream of lava; thence it ranon over old lava as far as the hollow calledA trio del Cavallo. It seemed to menace LaTorre del Greco.“ It has been observed that the volcanicmatter, not lava, thrown out by Vesuvius thistime, taken in mass, is much more consider¬able than the lava itself.“ The damage done by the eruption is notso considerable as the dreadful and menacingappearances of the mountains would have in¬duced me to imagine. Portici and the Torredel Greco have suflered no other inconveni-21ence tlian that arising from some sharpshowers of lapillo and ashes. Resina hashad about twenty ntoggia of land covered.—if A moggia is a Neapolitan measure, equiva¬lent to about four fifths of an English acre.From the Torre del Greco to the Torre delAnnunciata, the road is now covered to thedepth of two feet with lapillo and fine ashes.The Torre del Annunciata has suffered most;fall its finely cultivated lands are covered withla very thick stratum of lapillo and ashes.—|Near Ottaiano, about forty or fifty moggiaof wood were consumed. Yesterday, thisfpart suffered greatly from a deluge of warmwater, mixed with ashes. .“ A great number of labourers, aided byAustrian and Neapolitan soldiers, are em-iloyed in clearing the roads. The heavyrains that are expected at this season will domuch, but 1 fear that the country round theTorre del Annunciata will not be speedilyrestored to the industry of man.“ The distance at which the fine ashes have'alien is astonishing; the master of an Eng¬lish vessel, which came in last Saturday,gathered them on the deck the W ednesdaywening preceding, when he was off the Tus¬can coast, at least two hundred miles fromNaples.”THE DOG OF MONTARGIS.The fame of an English bull-dog lias22been deservedly transmitted to posterity by amonument in basso-relievo, which stiil re¬mains on the chimney piece cf the grand hall,at the castle of Montargis, in France. Thesculpture, which represents, a dog fightingwith a champion, is explained by the fo’low-i ng n arrative:—Aubri de Mondidicr, a gentleman of familyand fortune, tiaveding alone through theforest of Bondi, was murdered, and i ur'edunder a tree. Flis dog, an English bull dog,would not quit his master’s grave for severaldays ; till at length compelled by hunger, heproceeded to the house of an intimate friendof the unfortunate Aubri’s, at Fans, and byhis melancholy howling seemed desirous ofexpressing the lo!?s they had both sustained.He repeated his cries, ran to the door, look¬ed back to see if any one followed him, re¬turned to his master's friend, pulled him bythe sleeve, and with dumb eloquence entreat¬ed him to go with him.The singularity of all these actions of thedog, added to the circumstance of his comingthere without his master, whose faithful com¬panion he had always been, prompted thecompany to follow the animal, who conductedthem to a tree, where he renewed his howl,scratching the earth with his feet, signifi¬cantly entreating them to search that parti¬cular spot. Accordingly, on digging, the23>ody of the unhappy Aubri, was found.Some time after, the dog accidentally methe assassin ; who is styled, by all the histo¬rians that relate thisAct.rvi rxairethe Chevalierwhen, instantly seizing him by therhroat, he was with great difficulty compelledo quit his hold.In short, whenever the dog saw the cheva-icr, he continued to pursue and attack himvith equal fury. Such obstinate virulencen the animal, confined only to Macaire, ap¬peared very extraordinary, especially to thosewho at once recollected the dog’s remarkableuttachment to his master, and several in-tanccs in which Macaire's envy and hatredo Aubri de Mondidier had been conspicuous.Additional circumstances increased sus¬picion ; and at length the affair reached theoyal car. The king (Louis VIII.) accord-ugly sent for the dog, who appeared extreme-y gentle till he perceived Macaire in thenidst of several noblemen; when he raniercely towards him, growling at, and attack-ng, him as usual.In those rude times, when no positive proof•f a crime appeared, an order was issued for aomhat between the accuser and the accused.These were denominated the Judgments ofloci, from a persuasion that heaven wouldauch sooner work a miracle than suffer imio-ence to perish with infamy.24iIrI,iiiThe king, struck with such a collection of I]circumstantial evidence against Macaire, de¬termined to refer the decision to the chanceof battle; in other words, he gave orders fora combat between the chevalier and the doff.The lists were appointed in the Isle of Notre PDame, then an unenclosed, uninhabited place; 1Macaire’s weapon being a great cudgel.The dog had an empty cask allowed for ihis retreat, to enable him to recover breath.Every thing being prepared, the dog nosooner found himself at liberty, than he ranround his adversary, avoiding his blows, andmenacing him on every side, till his strengthwas exhausted; then springing forward, hegripedNhim by the throat, threw him on theground, and obliged him to confess his guiltin the presence of the king and the Avholecourt. In consequence of which the chevalier,after a few days, was convicted upon his ownacknowledgement, and beheaded on a scaf¬fold in the Isle of Notre Dame.The above curious recital is translatedfrom the Memoires sur les Duels, andis confirmed by many judicious criticalwriters; particularly Julius Scaligcr andMontfaucon, neither of wliom have ever beenregarded as fabricators of idle stories. Onthis narrative the melo-drame of the Forest .oj' Bondi is founded.