theINIQUITYo fBALLSANDSTAGE-PLAYS,DISCOVERED.O R, A NAccount of their Original, and InfH-tudon, together with the Opinion ofthe ancient Fathers thereanent. Andfome of the Judgments inflitted on 'the Aftors and Frequenters of them.Compofed by one of the late Minifters in Glaf~gow, and now publilhed as a Warning to atlthe Inhabitants thereof.T • A L • ei 'G L A S G 0 IV:Printed by J. Bryce and P-Patersov,And fold at their Printing-houfe, feeond Clqfs abiTvethe Saltmercat-Well. M DC CL ill. .[ 2 ]THEIniquity of BALLS and STAGE-PLAYS difcovered, &c.TAGE-PLAYS, tho’ much frequented in^ dur day, yet derive their pedigree, original,and inftitution from the Devil, they beingat lirft celebrated to the honour, and for manyhundreds of years together, dedicated, devoted,,and appropriated to the worihip and fervice of theHeathen Gods, who, as AuguJHne affirmeth, didihemfelves importunately demand thefe Plays tobe exhibited to them for their Honour, yea, de¬nounced Calamities if they were not exhibited,and fie wed themfelves pacified and well-pleafedwhen they were performed. Pol. Virg. de invent,rerum, l. 4. c. 14. fays, “ There was one Vale-“ /ins, a Wealthy Roman, who had three fons de-u fperatcly fick of the peftilence, for whom when“ he prayed to his houlhold gods, was defired togo to Tarcntum, and take water from before,“ or from belide the altar of Pluto and Proferpina,11 and give them to drink, or, as others, to wafh“ in, which being done they were reftored tohealth ; and in gratitude commanded by thefein fern ;tl fpirits to celebrate night-plays to them,i( which be and they accordingly did for three“ nights together.”.The ancient church and fathers condemned andprohibitd Stage-plays, and excommunicated thef rs ib.ereof. Cleini Alex, tells Chriftian youths,“ That their Pedagogues muff not lead them tou PI.)vs or Theatres, which may be called the' chair of peftilenee, becaufe thefe conventicles,‘‘ where men and-women meet promilcuoufly, to“ be-T[ 3 1“ behold one another, are the occafion of lewd-“ nefs, and there they plot wickednefs.” Cyprianfliles theatres “ the Hews of publick chaftity, the“ mafterlliip of obfcenity, which teach fins in pub-“ lick, that men may more ufually and eafily cora-mit them in private. And, Ihe that perchance“ came a chafte matron, goes away a ftrumpet“ from the Play-houfe.” We may here noticewhat the fatyrical poet Juvenal fays to this pur-pole, Sat. 6. “ 'That a man in his time could not“ pick one chafte woman, whom he might fafely“ love as his wife out of the whole Play-houfe,“ and that all women who frequent Stage-plavs“ are infamous, and forfeit their good names.”It were good that our women who love and hauntfuch plays, would confider this ; as alfo what isreported of Sempronius Sophus, a noble Roman,who divorced from hjs wife for this alone car.fe,that fhe frequented ftage-plays without his know¬ledge, which might make her an adulterefs; whichdivorce the whole tenate did approve (tho’it was the firft they did approve) as being a meanto keep women chafte. Tertullian calls the play-houfe, the chapel of venery, the houfe of letche-ry, the confiftory of uncleannefs. Gregor. Naz.calls ftage-players the fervants of lewd nefs, and-ftage-plays, the dilhoneft, unfeemiy inftructionsof lafcivious men, who repute nothing filthy butmodefty. Augujline brands ftage-plays with thisblack mark, “ That they arc fpeftacles of filthinefs,“ the overturners of goodnefs and honefty, t“ chafers away of all modefty and phaiftity ; v ho-rifti Ihews, the art of mile uevous villanic ,“ which even modeft Pagans did binfh to behold.”In another place'he calls Theatres, cages of un¬cleannefs, the publick profeJfions of wickt dnefs,which to true religion is moft aborninsble. Andehewhere he declares, That when the gofi-A came[ 4 3to be fpread abroad in the world, plays and play-houfes, the very caves of filthinefs, went to ruinalmoft in every city, as inconliflentwith it; whencethe Heathens, fays he, complained of the times ofChrifKanity, as evil and unhappy times. Chry-foftoxn fays, That nothing brings the oracles andordinances of God into fo great contempt, as ad¬miring and beholding Itage-plays; and that nei¬ther facraments, nor any other of God’s ordinan¬ces, will do a man good, fo long as he goes tothem. Salvian dc Gub. Dei, fays, That in f age-plays there is a certain apoftacy from the faith.—For what is the firfl: confeflion of Chrifti'ans intheir baptifm, but that they do renounce the De¬vil, his pomps, fpe&acles and works: Know thou,Chriftian, fays he, when thou doft wittingly andknowingly return to plays, thou returneft to theDevil.The Fathers are harmonious in condemningBalls and Plays, i. As being a breach of the thirdand feventh commandments, they being ordina¬rily fluff’d with fables, rites, villanies, incefls,rapes, oaths, imprecations; befide all which, theyare often fraughted in thefe days, with wickedand profane feoffs and Jeffs, abufes of feripture,and bitter invectives againlt piety and religion.The fynod of the reformed Proteflant church ofFrance, held at Rachel, Anno 1571, enaft, “ That“ congregations fhall be admonifhed by their mi-“ nifters, ferioufly to reprehend and fupprefs all(i dances, mummeries and interludes, and it fhall“ not be lawful for any Chriftians to aft, or to“ be prefent at any comedies, tragedies, plays, in-“ terludes, or any other fuch fports, either in“ publick or private chambers, confidering that“ they have always been oppofed, condemned,(( and fuppreffed, in and by the church,manjng along with them the corruptionas bring-of good[ 5 ]“ manners, efpecially when as the holy Scripture“ is profaned, which is not delivered to be adfed“ or played, but only to be preached.”2. As being a confirming to, and participatingwith Pagans in their idolatrous and fuperftitiouspradtices, exprefly forbidden to the people of Godj; in fcripture, which pwt Cyprian peremptorily toconclude, that the fcripture hath everlaftingly con¬i' demned all forts of fuch fpeftacles and ftage-plays,j:! when it took away idolatry, the mother of them,“ whence all thefe monitors of vanity, lightnefs and' lewdnefs did proceed.3. As being crofs to, and a practical renounci-f ation ©f, the baptifmal vow of Chriltians, whereinthey engage to renounce the Devil and all hispomps and works, of w'hich fort they account thei afring and beholding popular Itage-plays to be.4. As being the removal of a diftinguilhingCharafrer of Chriftians from Heathen Gentiles,I who, (as Tertullian fays, lib. de. fpeCl. cap. 24.)I did molt of all difcern men by this; that they a-I bondoned and renounced all Itage-plays.5. As being unfuitable to, if not inconfiltentI with, the Gofpel, which forbiddeth Chriltians toI ntake provifion for the fielh to fulfil the lullsthereof, to be caterers for their corruptions, andto be conform to the world ; and ^ommandeththem to walk circumfpefrly, accurately, even withI fpiritual precifenefs and ftriftnefs, not as fools,« but as wife, redeeming the time, wofully waited1 away, and miferably mifpent this way ; to abltainfrom all appearance of evil; to rejoice in theLord ; and when they are merry, to fing Pfalms,and to vent and exprefs their mirth in fongs ofpraife to God, and not in this wanton way ; andaflureth them withal, that evil communicationscorrupt good manners.6. As[ 6 J6. As being a corn ption of manners, incen¬tives to ligiitnefs and 'iuft, and feminaries andnurferies of wantonnefs and unclcannefs.Many inftances of publick judgments havingbefallen the adtors and frequenters of fuch plays,might be adduced : Ludovicus Fives in his notesupon AuguJFme de Civit. Dei, fays, “ That a“ certain man, who having in a play in one of the“ cititJs of Brabant adled the Devil’s part, and go-il ing home dancing to his houfe, and in that ha-“ bit, accompanying with hiswife, and faying he“ would beget a Devil on her, had a child brought„ “ forth to him that danced as foon as it was born,“ being thaped as men ufed to paint the Devil.”Tertullian in his book, de fpediaculis, cap. 26.fpeaking of two Chriftian women, to the truth ofwhich, he faith, God is witnefs. The one where¬of, was at her returning home from a play, im¬mediately pollelfed with a Devil; who, being byexorcifm expoflulated with, how he durft thusaifault and enter into a believing woman, anfwer-ed boldly, That he hftd done it moft juftly ; for,fiid he, I found her in my own temple, or in myown ground, or in my own dominion, or jurif-diftion ; and, as if he had faid, About my ownwork and bulinefs. The other, who the famenight, after hearing a Tragoedian, had a linneniheet prefented to her in her deep ; the after inthemlay being alfo named, with a lharp upbraidingof her for this deed of hers, and lived not aboverite days after.v A late Englijh gentlewoman ofgood rank, who, fpending much of her precioustime in attendance on plays, and falling at laft in-:to a dangerousolicknefs, whereof ihe died Anno1631. Friends in her extremity lent for a mini-flcr, who beginning to in fir lift and exhort her torepent and call on God for mercy, die made himno reply at all; but crycd out, Hieronimo? Hie-roni-[ 7 3ronimo ; O let me fee Hie. jnimo a fled ! And focalling for a play inftead of calling on God formercy, clofed her dying eyes, and had a fearfulend, anfwerable to her miferable Life. Severalperfons were diflrafted with the vifible apparitionof the Devil on the ftage, at the Bell-favage-Play-houfe, in queen Elizabeth's days, while they werethere beholding the hiftory of Faujhts, profanelyafted.To conclude, Balls and Plays bring always a-long with them an itching after amorous and lafci-vious books and romances, idle viiits, over-coftly,curious, vain and conceity drefilings and deckingof the body, to the waiting of much precioustime, and fometimes to the ruining of their eftatesand fortunes by extravagance. And can any Chri-ftians warrantably, and without lin, recreate them-felvcs with beholding fuch plays, which are at¬tended with the wafte of fo much precious time,!.. fo much extravagance, not to fay wickednefs. Is| there no better, no more innocent and inofferifivei way ? or-is this the only or the beft way to,re¬create men ? to refine, fnarpen.and polifn their| wits ; to perfuade and prevail with them to hate: and fly vice, and to love-and follow virtue; toi acquaint them from hiftory with, to imprefs onI them the remembrance, ar^d to excite them to theI imitation of, the noble and truely imitable actionsof iljuftrious heroes, and other'great men; tobrsed them to a fuitableconfidence; to make themeloquent and fine fpokefmen ; and to help themto a becoming gell: in all aftions, places, and fo-cieties ? the grave feers, and great lights of thechurch, did never fee any fuch thing in them ; buton the contrary, have with common fuffrage judg¬ed them to be the moft cffeftual and compendiousway to make men foft, dilfolute, and fenfual;nay, even in a manner quite to emafculatCj if notC s ]to brutifie them; and have without any difcorddeclared, that the lightnefs, lacivioufnefs, andlewdnefs that in thefe plays were touched under,and covered oyer with fuch lb reds and pieces oflearning, hiftory, eloquence, invention, wit, andart, were thereby only made the more dangerous,and that Satan Ihewed his pernicious and peftilentpolicy, not a little in thus tinfturing, fugaring,and gilding thefe poifonable pills, that they might 'go the better down, ditfufe themfelves the lefs ■fcnfibly, and operate the more ilrongly. Andhowever fome empty and effeminate, vain and vi¬cious Roman emperors reduced fuch plays, yetfome of the graveli and fobereft, manlieff and |braveft, even Heathen emperors, did oppofe and j•exterminate them (fo that Guevara noteth it tohave been one of the tokens and charafterifticks to !know a virtuous or vicious prince of Rome by, to |wit, whether he maintained players, jeffers, and Jjuglers among the people, or not) as did alfo ma- jjny fenators, Chriftian emperors, and well regu-'lfated republicks, both Pagan and ChrifHan ; as *unbefeeming exercifes, and effeminate arts, which ]did tnuch dijhonour and corrupt the Jiate, and as |feminaries of all vice and intolerable mifchiefs ina commonwealth.What ufeth to be faid for, and in defence ofStage-plays, and for reforming of them, yet fo ’as to retain them flill, was long fince objected by L' the witty and voluptuous Pagans, and has been Jiblidly anfwered, and ffrongly confuted by the tfathers, and by fome modern writers ; and may,in a great part, by what has been here faid con-jcerning the invention and original of them, the*nature, end and ufe of them ; dangerous and jdreadful tendencies, and fruits of them, fufficient-1ly plead againfl the ufe of them altogether, being <neither necelfary nor profitable. God is jealous Atind will not be mocked.FINIS.