Scots Piper's Queries;JOHN!SC A R R I G H E S.TO WHICH ARE ADOEBHis Comical and Witty JokesWhen in Courtship with an old Fiddler’sWidow, who wanted all the teeth.With a copy of a Love Letter he sentto her, who was commonly called Fling¬ing Betty.Old John Piper if you desireTo read at leasurc by the fire,’Twillplease the bairns and keep {hem laughing.And mind the Old Goodn ife o' her dujjin.EDINBURGH: QPrinted for the Bookseller[m S.VL]LIST OF HISTORIES.KO,S<—Fairy Tales, j). 2.Lh—Fairy Tales, p. S.4, —-Jane Shore.5. —AH Cogia.a^-Ali I^aba.7.—Lothian Toni.3.—Leper, the tailor,g;—Chevy Chacc.4l>.—-Waterloo.'M.^-Thc Coalman'sCourtship,of Cool's Ghost.IS,—Moll Flanders.14.—Wife of Leith.1^1 Poor liobin, themerry sadler.ZC>r—Falkirk's CarricheS.-J7.—CraKy Jane.FS.—Fair Rosamond.1 f).—Doctor Faustus.£0.—Friar ajid the Boy.NO. 21.—History of Sir W.Wallace.22-'r— Bamfylde MotiraCarcw.23. —^Wise Willie ami :■Witty Eppie. ^24. —Jack, the Ghnst-Killer.25. —John Cheap, the-Chapman.26. —The Mighty GiantTravi, and?*his Ma^rs:Leaf.£7-—George BucWnaa.2S.tt—The King and theCobler.2.0.—Royal Riddle Book50. —Dream Book.51. —Lite of Haggr.rt. _32.—Robert Nison sProphecies,83.—Simple John.«§ c. 4'c. Sj-Q.A Large Assortment of the most Popular BALLADS,SONGS, PATTERS, $c.This Catechism deserves no Creed,It’s only for boys that will not readOn wiser books, them to instruct!Let droll John their fancy cook.Scots Piper’s Queries.Q. What is the wisest behaviour of ig-orant persons ?A. To speak of nothing but what theynow, aPid to give their opinion of nO-iiing but what they understand.Q. What time is a scolding wife atbe best?.A. When sh£ is fast asleep.Q. What time is a scolding wife atthe worst ?A. When site is that wicked as to tearthe hair out of her head, when she can'tget at her neighbours, and through per¬fect spite bites her tongue with her teeth—My hearty wish is, that all such wickedvipers may ever do so.,4>,Q. What is the effectual cure and in-hfcJIibk remedy for a scolding wife ?A., the only cure is to get out of the |Leering of her ; but the infallible remedy |is to nail' her tongue to a growing tree, |in the beginning of a cold winter night, Iand so let it stand till sun-rising nextf]morning, and slie’ll become one of the |peaceablest women that ever lay by a |inn’s side.Q. What time of the year is it that ,there are most holes open ?A. In harvest when there are most |stubbles-.• Q. At what time is the cow heaviest ? |A. When the bull is on her back.Q. Who was the goodman’a mucklejjccfVs calf s mother.A. None but the nmckle cov/ hercelf. |Q. What is the Hkesf thing to a man jsnd a horse ?A. A tailor on a mare’s back.Q. What is the hardest dinner that a|tailor ev^r laid his teeth on ?A. His own goose, though never sojwell boiled .and roasted.Q. How many tods’ tails will it take toireach to the moon ?A. .One, if it be kng enough.to the-Q. Hovr many - stioks gangsbigging of a craw’s nest ?A. None, for they are all car i<k].Q. How many whites will a well, madepudding-prick need ?A. .If it be'well made-it needs no more.Q. Who was the father of Zebedee s•^children ?A. Who but himself.Q. Where did Moses go when he was,full fifteen years old?A. Into his sixteenth.Q. How near related is your aunt's*good-brother to you ?A. No nearer than ray own father.Q. How many holes are there in ahen’s doup ? T,wo.Q. How prove you that ?A. There" is one for the dung and an¬other for the egg’.Q. Who is the best for catchingrogues ?< A. None so fit as a rogue himself.Q. Where was the usefulest fair in'Scotland kept ? A. At Mufguy.Q. What sort of commodities werethere ?A. Nothing hut ale and ill wicked wires,Q. How was it abolished ?6,A. Because those that went to it once'would go to it no more.Q. For what reason ?A. Because there was no money to bejgot for them* but fair barter, wife for wife,and he who put away his wife for one fault, j;got another with two as bad.Q. What was the reason that in thoseJdays a man could put away his wife for:pissing the bed and not for sh g it ? iA. Because lie could shute it awaywith his foot and lye down..Q. What is. the- reason now a daysthat men court, cast, marry, and remarryso many wives, and keep but only one inpublic at last ?A. Because private marriages are be--come as common as smuggling, and !cuckolding the kirk no more thought ofthan to ride a mile or two on his neigh- |hour’s mare f men get will and wale of^wives, the best portion,, and properest per- !£on is prefered, the first left, the weak to jthe worst, and slio whom he does not love,|he shutes away with his foot, and lies«down with whom he pleases.Q. Flow will you know the bairns ofour town by others in the kingdom ? ]A. By their il) breeding and bad man- ,uers7Q. What is their behaviour?A. If you ask them a question in eivili-|ty, if ifc were but the road to the next town,i they will tel| you to follow your nose, andif go wrong curse the guide.Q. Are young and old of them no bet-|ter?j A. All the odds lies in the difference,ojfor if you ask a child to whom he belongs,li or who is his father, he will tell you tokiss his father’s a—c.Q. What kind of creatures are kind-ij liest when they meet ?A. None can exceed the kindness ofI dogs when they meet in a market,ij Q. And what is coiiey’s conduct thefe?A. First they kiss others mouths andij noses, smeH about, and at last of all, they| are so kind as to kiss other below thel tail.I Q. What is the coldest part of a dog ?A. His nose.Q. What is the coldest part of a man ?A. His knees.Q. What is the coldest part of a wo¬man ? A. The hack part of her bodyQ. What’s the reason that these threeparts of men, women and dogs arecoldest ?A. Fabulous historians write, that thereIwas tliree little holes broke in Noah's atk. ll;ami that the dog put his nose in one, and yanother the' man put his: knee in it, 'athird and biggest hole- broke, and th'e|woman set her backdde into it; add these |parts being exposed to the cokb blast,makes them always.cold ever since. ‘ ^Q,, And tbhat remedy does the niantake to‘warm his knees ?A. He holds them towards the fire, andwhen in bed draws his shirt over them.■Q. W^at does the woman do to warmtheir cold parts ?A. The married woman turn their«backside about to the goodman’s belly;virgins, and those mad for marriage, the lheat of their maideii-heads keeps them ’warm*; old matrons and whirl’d o'^r makk :ehs, widows, and widows bewitched, hold ^up their cold parts to the. fire. , lQ. AndJ what remedy does the poor .1dog take for his cold nose'?'A. Staps it in below his talk .t-he hot- ‘test bit in his body."Q. Whgt iis the reason that oogs- are :|worse on chnpmen, than on any other |str^hge people ? v * ;A. Tt is ^aid the dogs har6 three accu¬sations against the chapmeg,, banded |down frUiii fatlu r to son, dr due gen- 19aeration iT;f dpgs to another : The first- isas as old as Th.op, the preat wit of Baby-Ton, the dog having- a lavv-suit against the! cat, gained the ploa, and coming; trudg¬ing home wi h the decreet below- Lis tail,a wicked chapman throwing fis elwrmd atji he let it faij^arid, so lost ids' pp ivi-i leges'. The sr con cl.is because' in old timesthe'chi'Tijt’Tien used to buy dogs aiid killfhem for th’^ir skin^. The third, ip, whcyii a eliapvhan was quartered in a farmer's| house, that night the! dog lost Ins prcpetf| ty, the licking. oT the pot.I r Q. What creature resembles most aji drunken piper ? ■ • : .A. A cat when she sips milk ; she al- . .ways sings, aiid'so does ?i pipef when'hedrinks g(>p.d,.ale.r Q. Wfat is the ^.reason a dog .runsI twice round,about be*dfd lie lies down ?A. Because Tie does not know the headof his bed from the foot of it.Or What: creature. 'resehibles most along, lean,.ni-Kookingl greasy fac’d ladyfor prid^ ^ •A. dNTo-ne so much as a cat, whois con-tinualiyiispitting in her lufe and Rubbingher foee, as many of such ladies do theirbrown leather.Q. Amongst what sort, of creatures1°will you observe most of a natural law ?A. The hare and the hind meet at onecertain day in the year ; the broad gooselay* her first egg on Fastern’s Even, oldstile ; the crows begin to build their:nests the first of March, old stile; theswans observe matrimony, and if the fe¬male die, the male dares not take up withanother, or the rest will put him to death; vall the birds in general join in pairs and :keep so; but the dove resembled the ad ul-derer, for when the one turns old bepays her away and takes another; the io- jousts observe military order and march inhands; the frog* resemble pipers andpreachers, for the young ride the old tofdeath.Q. Who are the merriest and heartiestpeople in the world ?A. The sailors, for they’ll he singing iand cursing one another, when the waves, ^their graves, are going over their heads. JQ. Which are the disorderliest crea- \lures in battle ?A. Cows and dogs, for they all fallupon them that are neathmostQ. Who are the vainest sort of peoplein the world ?A. A barber, a tailor, a young soldier ]and poor dominie.11Q. What is the great cause of the bar-j* her’® vanity ?A. His being admitted to trim noble-<imen’s chafts thyke their sculls, takejjkingB by the nose, and hold a razor toidiis very throat, which no subject elseill dare do.Q. What is the great cause of the tai-ffl lor’s pride ?A. His making of people’s new clothes,if of which every person, young and old,| are proud of, then who can walk vainerl lthan a tailor carrying home a gentleman’sflj clothes.Q. What is the cause of a young sol-I dier’s pride ?A. When he lists, he is free from hisI mother’s correction, and the hard usage| of a bad master, has liberty to curse,i swear, whore, and every other thing, un¬till convinced by four halberts and thedrummer’s whip, that he has now got amilitary and civil law above his head, andperhaps worse master’s than ever.Q. What is. the cause of tlie poor do¬minie's pride ?A. As he is the teacher of the youngand ignorant, he supposes no man knowswhat he knows, and the bovs call himmaster, therefore he thinks bimseif agreat man.Q. What sort of a song is it that’s sungwithout a tongue, and its notes are un¬derstood bj people of all nations ?A. It is a fart, which every bodyknows to be but wind.Q. What is the reason that young peo¬ple are Vain, giddy-headed and airy, and Inot so humble as in former times?A. Because they are brought up andeducated after a more haughty strain, by |reading fables, plays and romances, gos- |pel books, such as the psalm book, pro¬verbs ’and catechisms are like old alma¬nacks: Nothing is now in vogue, but fiiddlfi, flute, Tory and Babylonish tunes;our plain English speech corrupted withbeauish' cants, don't, won’t, nen, andken, a jargon worse than the Yorkshiredialect. -TQ. Why is Swearing become so com¬mon amongst the Scots people?A. Because so many lofty teachers |come from the south among us, where •,swearing is practised in its true gramroati- *cal perfection, hot oaths, new struck off,with as bright a lustre as a new quarterguinea. % >^ Q. How will you know the bones of a jISi ‘oosoa’s marc at the back of a dyke, a-i iicngst the. bones of an hundred dead>iorre ?j A. Because they are rcade of wood.I Q. Which are tne two things not to bo{'spared, and not to he abused ?; A. A soldier’s coat and a hired horse.The end of John Falkirk's Carriches.N old gentleman and his two sonsbeing in a company, his eldest sontison sitting next to him, spoke a wordIphich highly displeased his father, forwhich his father gave him a hearty blowion the. side of the head. "A well, said heI will not lift my hand to strike, my .pa-pent, but he gives his other brother, that[sat by him, a. blow on the ear, saying,give that about by way of a drink- {ill itconies to my father again.I A sailor travelling between Edinburghand Linlithgow, which is. 12 long com¬puted miles ; end as he was setting-Ginin the monihig aboyx eight o’clcek, be14saw a vain-like young spark go runningpast him, which he never minded, butkept jogging on at his own leisure : Andas he was going into Linlithgow abouttwelve o’clock, up comes the young spark,-and asked the sailor what o’clock it wasJ“ Why,” says the sailor, “ I see youhave a watch and I have none, what isit ?” Out he pulls his watch, “ Ho !” saidhe, “ it’s directly twelve, and what do you ,think, it was half an hour after ten or Icame out of Edinburgh, I have walked itin an hour and a half.” “ It is prettywell tript,” says the sailor, * but pray air,what man of business are you ?’' “ O !’'said he, I am a watch maker.” “ I w'asthinking so,” said the sailor, “ for yonl.*ave made the watch answer your feet,for they cannot answer a right watch, andI suppose ycur tongue cannot keep time 1with either -of them; do you rememberwhere you passed me this morning abouteight o’clock.?” “ O yes,” said he, and■ofFEc went.A certain old reverend priest being onenight at supper in a gentleman’s house,andJfor one article having eggs, the sen-!5: rer of the table laid a cloth on every one'sI knee for to hold their egg in when hot,When supper was over the priest looked•down between his legs, and seeing^thewhite cloth, thought it was his own shirtijail, and very slyly staps it into hisrpreeches, bit and bit, which the landladyJjand the maid observed, but was athamed:o tell him: so home he went with theifiervit in his breeches, and knew nothinghf it till going to bed, when it fell fromi aim. Ilis wife enquired how he came byJit, he could not tell, bnt was surprisedmow he came to have more bulk in hisnbreeches than formerly, but observing|the name they sent it back again, theipriest pleaded to be excused, owned him-ijiself only a thief in Igjnorance.As two maids were coming from milk-jfiin.g their cov. s, one of them stepping overa stile, fell and spilt the whole paleful ofnrnilk from her head. “ O," *aid shr,“ what will I do, what will I do ?” “ O,”said the other maid, " f t it go, who canhelp it now ? You can’t take it up again,(it’s not your maidenhead.” “ My maiden¬head,” said she, 44 if it were my Inaiden-)16heaj, I tfould think nothing;of-it* many’a time I have lost my maidenhead with \great pleasure, and it ay came back again1to its ain place, Wt 111 never gather up IrayViidk.” • ' Vl. A dro.vei- who frequented. a publi^ innla of England? as he passedand repassed, agreed with tho servantmaid of the house for a touch of love; forWhich.!-.| gave hersix- and thirty .shiilliag piece.: On the next morning heluouat^i’his. horsey , w.itiiout asking a billor • wlmj. .was.; to. payhutt ‘‘ Sir,” . saidjtje;lanlord, “ you,forgot to payyj?urre3kohing.”. “ Well., minded, sir, 1 forg.o^my charge ;” the maid was called in ailhaste. “ Yes,” said she, x“ I got it, but‘ it was not for that,” throws it dow'n andoIF she goes. Her mi|tresa*gare ' her the;'challenge.; she told bof It was so, butsbp shjouhl be;- up,, with him. TVelyly■in^i,ths . after, he ooinjiig...past with hi^hrevo, puts up at the same inn, as for-'raerly : Tjbe girl then,,goes, to a neigh-.,hour woman, who had a, yoimg cbiid^ a-;;i;out three months old,' lays .jt .on .the■lablp^ d*. ^ir, there’s the.change of^17rfoiir six and’' thirty,,r- $nd a-.vaf shepomes : Tide' 'cHiid cnes,; and the bell’spine*, the-1 lanlord vraS‘ ready enpdgh tofMia-.vbr. 44 O sir,’? said the dtoVerh “callhsr back, for tbisf will ruhV itiYfamily; andicrack my credit.” u Br.t sir,^ s\nd theI girl, Mjyou thought nothing toj ruin my[characrter and crack my ihaidenhbad.”‘“ Peace, peace,” said he, “ my dear, here's .:ione hundred and. fifty poiinds, and takei away-the chikl and trouble me no mere.”h Well” said she, “ I will take it, andi ycu’il make more of buying cows than,nmaidenheads so away she came -withithe -money and returned the borrowedichiid to it3 own mother p. .• Three merry compahichs leaving ;mbton a Saturday night at ah '‘alqhdiis'e, '.(ahatter, a shoe-maker, and a tailor) v.-’ier:*they* drank heartily ‘ all that ’nigh t,’ arid to-morrow until :fhid-day ; .And their bepswere-who had the’ lb v ingest dr ife. the'y .agreed for a trial of'their good hatrre,that every man should do whatever idswife bid him 'do as soOh as ever he wenthome ; who did not as she ordered himwas to ray ill the teckonihg, which csr.e18to seven and sixpence; or if all of themdid as their wives bid them, then theYwere to pay all alike. So on this agree¬ment they all came away, first to the hat¬ter’s house, and in he goes like a mad¬man, dancing and jumping round thefloor, his wife was taking olf the pot and!setting it on the floor, he still dancingabout, ding over the pot with thy mad¬ness ; so he gives it a kick, and over itwent, and that saved him, as he had donewhat his wife bade him do. Th.en awaythey go to the tailor’s house, in he goes;dancing likewise, but his wife fell a* scold¬ing him: “ O,” says he, “ give me a kiss ?”!“ Kiss my arse, you drunken rogue,” said:she; then to her flies and lays her on thebed, up with her petticoats and kisses herarse before them all, and that caved him.Then away they went to the shoe-maker’s,^and in he goes very merry, and dancingabout as he saw the other two do, saying“ Come my dear heart, and give me a kiss”.“ Go hang yourself you drunken dog, said”1she; so he must either go and hang him¬self directly, or pay the reckoning.An honest Highlandman not long since,19pt much accquainted with law, fell outrith one of his neighbours, and to thelaw they went; he employed one advo¬cate, and his opposite another, and asthey were debating it in court before the|udges, the highlandman being there pre¬sent, a friend on his side asked him howfihe thought it would go, or who would gainlithe day, “ Indeed,” says the highland, “{rinan his lawman speaks well, and my law-|man speaks well, I think well both win,:.(and the judges will loose, for they speakt but a word now and then,”^ A young woman by the old accidentShaving got herself with child, was calleda to the session for so doing, and, after one| elder, another examining her how sh.j gotlit, and where she got it, and what tempt-li ed her to get it, said no doubt the deelwad get her for the getting it: And lastof all the minister fell a enquiring howshe got it, which run the poor’ lass out ofall patience about the getting. Says thepriest, * Tell me plainly where it was got¬ten ?” “ I tell you,” said she, “ it wasgotten in the byre, at a cow’s stake, and;what £ther place would you want to kerr20 . ■ -Iabout?” “But,” said he,- “did he tu>!tye ' you* to the* covds stake ?” ‘vNo,^said she, “ I did not need any tying;*« And how far ivas between the byre antjthe house ?” “ Just but and ben, up anjdown t^a staps of a stane stair.” “ Thet|isays the priest, M why did you not cry tt|the folks in the‘house?” “ Indeed" sir,ftsays she, - “ I could not get cried for th^laughing at it.”A soldier being on a forlough from th|north of Scotland, having got no break-fas:, fell very hungry by the way and n<$alehouse being near, came in to a farmer*house and. wished them to sell him sorn^bread, cr any kind of victuals ; to whichthe surly good wife .replied, she never coldany bread, and was net going to beginwith hmv' he had but three miles and aIntteck to afi alehouse,'aiid he might walk)du; as sfe did fair enoig^H v/Heh^she gied•H id!of bread for riaething to beggars, thd‘she,vgi,ed nane to idle soldiers, he had•p aethmg to do there awa’. “ Hout,” saidthe gdodm'an, “ gie’m a ‘ Jad|efu’ o’ourykatl, he’s been 'somebody’s bairn beforb:li*i ~ vdas a . soldie*.” “ Whit f *' sr/rl she',121there's not a drop in, tho pci, they arejl in the plate before you/’ ‘4-TI;en gie’m■ spoon and let him gup wi’ us.” Thetidier gets a spoon, and thinking heould sup all he sa^r, the fust sup he took,e i spouted back again in to the plate,cd cries out, ‘‘ O my sore mouth, theide’s yet all off since I. had the clap.”livery one throwing down his spoon, theoldier got all to sup himself. The wifejj tood cursing and scolding all the time,ijnd when he was done burnt both platemd spoon to prevent the clap. So theoidier came oil with a full belly, leavinghe wife dressing the goodmaifs riggingvith a four footed stool for bidding hit»t;up.A churlish man and a virtuous wife onetime fell out, because the wife had givensomething to the poor. “ What,” said he,“ mistress, Til let you know there is no¬thing about this house hut whet is mine.”“ Well, well, woodman, then you’will letme have nothing, take it all and give mepeace so away they went to bed, andthe goodwife turned her backside towardthe goodmao, and a? he was falling asleep,- !22she draws up her smoke and lets fly inthe good man's shirt tail, which awakenedhim in as great fright as he had beenshot “ Ay, ay, what are ye about ?’*“ What am I about," said she. “ Dearwoman, you ®re filing the bed." “ NotI, goodman, for when my arse Was myown I took care of it, and take ye careof it now, it is yours.v “ O rise, woman,and clean the bed, and keep your arse and'a’ the liberty ye-had before, -and more, ifye want it; feigh, what’s this, I’m a*dirt.”A ships crew being one time, in greatdistress at sea, by reason of a violent,storm and being all fallen down to prayer,expecting every moment to go to the bot¬tom. There happened to be an old gen¬tleman, a passenger on board with them,who had a great big red nose, with drink¬ing ale and whisky; and being all at theirlast prayers as they thought, a little boyburst out into a loud laughter. “ O thouthoughtless rogue," said the captain,“ what makes thee laugh, seeing us all onthe point of perishing ?" “ Why,” saidthe boy, “ I cannot but laugh for to think23iLat fine sport it will l>e when we are all| rowning, to see how that man’s red noseIfill make the water biz when it comes a*lout itat which words they all fell ajktighing and cherished the crew, so that!<hey made another attempt to weatherft nt, and got all safe ashore at last.Wohn Falkirk's Love- Letter to the Fiddler'sWidow.:i My lovely Bet, the beauty of old age,|hy hoary head, and louching shouldersincline to mortality ; yet I will compareIhee to the Eagle that has renewed herwoutb, or leek with a white head and afcreen tail; this comes to thee with myjkind compliments for kisses of thy lips|ind the kindness I had for thy late hed-ellow, Fiddler Fate, my brother pension-jr ; ah ! how we drank others health withthe broe of the bucket ewes, we brought■rom boughts of the German Boors ; buttit's nonsense to praise the dead, when inthe dust, yet a better Vialer never sreed-tjed on a silken cord, or kittled a cat’swi’ his finger-ends, his elbows were sup*-pie as an eel, and his fingers dabbed at21- ( ^the jigging epd I%e ft huRgry lien pickingbarley : I-sddjOm or ever.saw him drunk,,* and keep him from., or .T/jbiak\|from him ; excepf that night he trystexthe free-stone paiy of breeches from Jo¬seph the mason: And now, my clearjI Bessy, he's got , them, he’s got them, fora free-stane covers his body, holds him| down, and will do; and new, now mydainty thing, match for matrimony, comotak me now or tell me now. I’m in dan- ]ger, I’ll wait nae langer; I say be clever,ieither now or never, it’s a rapture of lovejjwhich does me move, I’ll have a wife, or|by ray life, if she should be blind and|:cripple; I’ll sell my wind for her meatlrand fun, the like ne’er gaed down her|thmpple; so now Bessy I love you, my|love lies upon you ; and if you love raesnot again, some ill chance come uponiyou, as I fly ting free, I am both in]lore and banter, or may your, rumple**rust for me; I have sworn it by mychanter.