GRIJVNIiVGMADE EASY;on,FUNNY DICK’S•JUNRIVALLED COLLECTIONOFJESTS, JOKES, BULLS, EPIGRAMS &cWith many other descriptions ofWIT & HUMOUR.GLASGOW :PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.L4.<2T\0NALV OF SCOTLAND JN» B U R 9^WQITO^G&XOO aaJhT 4VJHmvy.p i a ,i .?a ?.>» o o i h i » o i a •• n'V-' ' • ... ( *GRINNING MADE EASY.Mr. Serjeant Gardner, being lame of one leg,id pleading before the late Judge P'ortescue, who;d little or no nose, the judge told him, he wasraid he had but a lame cause of it. Oh I my lord,id the serjeant have but a little patience, and I’llirrant I prove every thing as plain as the nose onur face !Hume the historian, passing one day by the back! Edinburgh Castle, where the ground is veryampy, and the foot path narrow, inadvertentlycl mbled into the bog, where he stuck, not beingle to extricate himself. A washor-woman hap-n ning to pass at the time, looked at him, and wasRavelling on, when he shouted after her to lend himMr assistance. Na, na, (replied the woman) you1 e Hume the Deist. Well, well, no matter, re-ied he—you know, good woman, your Christianarity commands you to do good even to your en-ies. Na, I winna, said she, unless you wdll firstpeat the Creed and the Lord’s Prayer. Havingalternative, he was forced to accede to the pious;an’s terms.Two English gentlemen, som^khfie ago, visited4the field of Bannockburn, so celebrated for the todefeat of tbe English army, by Robert the Bruwith an army of Scottish heroes, not one four]their number. A sensible country man poinout the positions of both armies, the stone whthe Bruce’s standard was fixed during the batt.&c.—Highly satisfied with hisattention, the gentmen, on leaving him, pressed his acceptance ocrown-piece,—Na, na, said the honest man, retuing the money, keep your crown-piece—the Erlish have paid dear enough already for seeingfield of Bannockburn.Judge Toler, afterwards Lord Norbury, whseverity was at one time proverbial, was at a plie dinner with Curran the celebrated IrishlawyToler observing Curran carving a piece of connbeef, told him, if it was hung beef he would tryIf you try it, my Lord, replied Curran, 1 am suit will be hung.A gentleman coming into a coffee-room one stormlnight, said. He never saw such a wind in h|life. Saw a wind, says a friend, I never heardsuch a thing as seeing a wind; pray, what waslike ? Like answered the Gentleman, like to havblown my hat off.A young lady going into a barrack-room at EoGeorge, saw an officer toasting a slice of bread otbe point of hi? sword. On which she exolaimetFe1lit:;"nilI think. Sir, you have got the staff of life on thepoint of death.One day, Socrates, having for a long time en¬dured his wife’s brawling, went out of his house,and sat down before the door, to rid himself of herimpertinence. The woman, enraged to find all herscolding unable to disturb his tranquility, flung thecontents of a chamber-pot on his head. I hose thathappened to see it, laughed heartily at poor Soc¬rates ; but this philosopher observed, smiling, ‘ Ithought, indeed, after so much thunder we shouldhave rain.”A clergyman chose for his text the followingwords : e Which of you will go up with me to Ram-olh-Gilead ?” Then pausing, he again and again re¬peated the words, when a gallant tar started fromhis seat, and looking round him with an eye full ofindignation, he exclaimed, Will none of you go upwith the worthy gentleman ; Then, d—n me, Iwill go myself.An old beggar, pretending to be dumb, wasthrown ofl'his guard by the question. How manyyears have you been dumb; and answered. Fiveyears last June, please your honour.A countryman sowing his ground, two smartfellows riding by, one of them called to him withan insolent air. Well honest fellow, ’tis yourbuisnessto sow, but we reap the fruits ofwhich the country man replied, *Tis very likely youmay, for I am sowing hemp.One told another, who did not use to be verywell clothed, that his new coat was too short forhim : That’s true, answered he hut it will he longenough before I get another.A proud parson and his man, riding over a com¬mon, saw a shepherd tending his flock, in a newcoat P The parson asked, in a haughty tone, whogave him that coat ? The same people, (said theshepherd) that clothe you—the parish. The par¬son nettled a little, rode on murmuring a consider¬able way, and sent his man hack to ask the shep¬herd, if he would come and live with him, for hewanted a fool. The man went to the shepherd ac¬cordingly, and delivered his master’s message, con¬cluding that his master really wanted a fool. Areyou going away then ? said the shepherd. No, an-ssvered the other. Then you may tell your mas¬ter, replied the shepherd, thattain three of us.An arch prisoner, who had an unfavourablecountence, being brought to the bar to he tried forhorse-stealing, the judge immediately cried. Oh,here is a noted villain, I am sure ! Why, Sir Ican see the rogue in your face. Ah, my Lord,says the fellow, I wonder at that: I did not knowmv faee was a Inoking-sdacs tHl now.his living won’t main-7Mr Hare, formerly Uie envoy of Holland, had■apartments in the same house with Mr Fox, and,like his friend Charles, had frequent dealings withthe monied Israelites. One morning, as he waslooking out of his window, he observed several ofthe tribe assembled at the door for admittance.Pray, gentlemen, says he, are you Fox hunting,or Hare hunting this morning?An Irish officer had the misfortune to be dreadsfully wounded at Waterloo. As he lay on theground, an unfortunate soldier, who was near him,and was also severely wounded, made a terrible how¬ling, when the officer exclaimed, D—n your eyes,what do you make such a noise for ? Do youthink there is nobody killed but yourself?When Mr. Horne Tooke was called before thecommissioners to give an account of the particularsof his income ; having answered a question whichwas asked, one of the wise men said, peevishly, thathe did not understand his answer—Then, saidTooke, as you have not half the understanding ofanother man, you ought at least to have double thepatience.When the Scotch Court of Justiciary passedsentence of fourteen years banishment on MrMuir, some persons in the gallery began to hiss.The Lord Justice Clerk turned round in a greatfury, and ordered the macer, who stood behind hisfasamBmmm8chair, to take the persons that were hissing intocustody. The macer, with great coolness, answer-My Lord, they are all hissing.Sir Boyle Roach, in one of the debates on thequestion of the Union, made a speech in favour ofit, which he concluded by saying, that it wouldchange the barren hills into fruitful vallies.A man walking along altera woman, whose elegant shape excited his admiration, was not a littledisappointed when he got up with her and saw herordinary face—If, Madam, said he, you were ashandsome before as you are behind, I would kissyou. You may, replied the lady, kiss where youthink I am handsomest.When Buchanan was tutor to James I. hefound it necessary, one day, to give his most sacredMajesty a flogging. A lady of the court, being inthe next room, and overhearing what passed, ran in,and catching the young king in her arms, askedBuchanan how he could lift his hand against theLord’s anointed; to which he replied, with greatcoolness, Madam, I have whipped his arse, youmay kiss it if you please.Alphonso, King of Arragon, to whom a Jewrwished to sell a picture of our Saviour for five hun¬dred ducats, said, “ You are much more uncon¬scionable than your ancestors, who sold the originalfor thirty pieces.”9A man and his wife, as a proof of their fondnessor each other, made a mutual vow, that, on eitherf their deaths, the survivor should remain in a statef celibacy. The husband having died, the widowi.ept her vow, religiously, for about a twelvemonth.\t the end of this period, however, she began to•epent of it, and being a Catholic, she applied toI he priest, to know whether she could not he releas-|:d from it. This having, as might he expected,>een negatived, the good woman thought of appeal-rig to a higher power, and accordingly she dailyraid her devotions to an image of the Virgin, whohe hoped would, by some sign, sanction her second: marriage. On one of those occasions, when, as[usual, she fervently asked the Virgin whether shet might not lawfully marry a second lime, a wag,r who had concealed himself under the image, an-| swered. No !—-On which the devotee immediately[j replied. Hold your tongue, you bastard ; I am speak-p ing to your mother.The Captain of one of the British frigates a manof undaunted bravery, had a natural antipathy to a11 cat. A sailor, who from misconduct had been or-:t dered a flogging, saved his back by presenting tohis Captain the following petition :By your Honour’s command,A culprit I stand —An example to all the ship’s crew ;I am pinion’d and stript,And condemn’d to be wliipt;And, if I am flogg’d 'tis my dueA cat, I am told.In abhorrence you hold ;Your Honour’s aversion is mine !If a cat with one tailMakes your stout heart to fail,O, save me from one that has Nine !Two boys, belonging to the chaplains of two dif¬ferent men of war, entertaining each other with a;account of their respective manners of living—Howoften. Jack, says the one, do you go to prayers PWhy, answered Jack, we pray when we are afraidof a storm, or going to fight! Aye, quoth theother, there is some sense in that; but my mastermakes us go to prayers when there is no more oc¬casion for it than for my jumping overboard.A man having been capitally convicted at theOld Bailey, was, as usual, asked what he had tosay why judgement of death should not pass againsthim ? Say ! replied he, why I think the joke hasbeen carried far enough already, and the less thatis said about it the better—Ifjou please, Sir, we’lldrop the subject.Advertisement from a London Paper—-Wantedfor a wine-merchant’s house in the city, as a por¬ter, an athletic man, of a serious countenance, a*IIcharacter, and. of the Protestant religion ; innst at¬tend prayers twice a day, and divine worship fourtimes on Sunday ; he able to bear confinement, havethe fear of God before his eyes, and be master fortwo hundred weight. ^\;ages fourteen shillings aweek, and find himself.A man seeing in the street an old woman whodrove some asses, said. Adieu, mother of asses.Adieu, adieu, my son, answered she.A Quaker was examined before the Board ofExcise, respecting certain duties ; the Commission¬ers thinking themselves disrespectfully treated byhis thee-and thouing, one of them with a sterncountenance, asked him—Pray, Sir, do you knowhat we sit here ? Yea, replied Nathan, Iome of you for a thousand, and others forteen hundred and fifty pounds a year,mparisons of Drunkenness.—-A man is said todrunk as an owl, when he cannot see—as: as a sow, when he wallows in the dirt—as: as a beggar, when he is very impudent—as: as the devil, when he is inclined to mischief,-as drunk as a Lord, when he is every things bad.alking Stewart having given an account ofing cast away on an unknown coast, thus ex-ss himself: ‘ After walking a considerableip the country, we saw, to our inexpressiblesatisfaction, a man hanging on a gibbet. Thistle-light atfored us by this cheering sight is inconceiv¬able, for it convinced us that we were in a civilizedcountry\V hen the Earl of Clancartie was Captain of aman of war, he lost his Chaplain. The FirstLieutenant, a Scotchman, announced his death tohis Lordship, adding, he was sorry to inform himthat the chaplain died a Roman Catholic. Well,so much the better, said his Lordship. Oot awamy Lord, how can you say so of a Breetish Cler¬gyman ? Why, replied his Lordship, because Ibelieve I am the first Captain that ever could boastof a Chaplain who had any religion at all.An attorney being employed to draw the Testa¬ment of a rich man, was requested to woid it insuch a manner, that no room might be left for con¬testation among his heirs. That quoth the man oflaw, is imposihle. Can I go beyond om Saviourwhose Testament has been a perpetual soure of con¬test for these eighteen hundred years ?The late learned Lord Karnes, one day, aftercoming out of the Court of Edinburgh, went tomake water at a place where the centinel on dutyassumes a power of levying a fine for sucli trans¬gression. My Lord said the soldier, you are fined.For what ? For pissing at this place. How mudi P1.3Thi’bepence, rny Lord. 'I'liere is six-pence tor, you,then. Sir; and remember you owe me a piss.Mr Ogilvy, a Scottish Clergyman, at Lunan,in Forfarshire, had a great deal of eccentricity inhis character and manner.—One Sunday when hewas in the middle of his sermon, an old woman, whokept an alehouse in the parish, fell asleep. Herneighbour jogged her, in order to awaken her. TheMinister seeing this, said. 1 11 waken her fast en¬ough ; and immediately giving a loud whistle, cri¬ed out ‘ Janet ! a bottle of ale and a dram !”‘ Coming, Sir,’ said the old lady, starting out ofher nap.The Sexton of a parish-church in Shropshire in¬sisted on a poor man, who had lost his leg by am¬putation, paying sixteen pence for burying it. Theman appealed to the Rector, who said that he couldnot relieve him in the present case ; but he wouldconsider in his fees when the remainder of his bodycame to be buried.Epitaph on a Physician.Here Docter Fisher lies interr’d.Who tilled the half of this church-yard.A certain bruising Parson having been examin¬ed as a witness in the Court of King’s Bench, theadverse Counsel attempted to browbeat him; Ithink you are the bruising Parson, said he, I am,HHMMN14said the divine ; and if you doubt it, 1 11 give it youunder my hand,A gentleman happening to he in the stable be¬longing to an inn in London, met a most active fel¬low officiating as hostler. The gentleman enquir¬ed where he came from ? Yorkshire, was the re¬ply. How long have you been here as ostler PThirteen years. What! you a Yorkshirenian, andso long a servant: why, I should have supposed youwould have been master ere this time. Ay, Sir,but master is Yorkshire too.Hugo Arnot, author of the History of Edin¬burgh, &c. was a perfect walking skeleton. Oneday he was eating a split dried haddock, or, as itis called in Scotland, a spelding, when Harry Er-skine came in. You see, said Hugo, I am notstarving. I must own, replied the other, that youare very like your meat.An Irish soldier once returning from battle inthe night, marching a little way behind his com¬panion, called out to him. Hollo, Pat, 1 have catch'da Tartar ! Bring him along then ! bring him along !Aye, but he won’t come. Why, then, come awaywithout him. By Saint Patrick, but he won't letme.Lord Somers, when Chancellor, hired a smallbox near Twickenham common, in which parish MrJohnson, secretary of state for Scotland, built a15beautiful villa. The chancellor of England invit¬ed the secretary of Scotland to a convivial dinner;and Johnson, as the glass was circulating, told along tale of a countryman of his own, and woundup his story by saying that the person was a d—dknave. The chancellor stared at him, and exclaim¬ed, It is strange for you, Mr Johnson, to call aScotchman a knave.—Take no heed to that, saidthe secretary, for you may depend on it, that wehave more knaves in Scotland that ye have honestmen in England.A gentleman being asked his opinion of the sing¬ing of a lady who had not the purest breath, said,that the words of the song were delightful, but hedid not much admire the air.What objection can you have to me (said a wife-of Bath to her husband) it is absolutely impossiblefur two people to be more of one mind—you wantto be master, and so do I ?Macklin the player, once going to one ol the fireoffices to insure some property, was asked by theclerk how he would please to have his name enter¬ed ? Entered, replied the veteran, why, I am on¬ly plain Charles Macklin, a vagabond, by act ofParliament; but, in compliment to the times, youmay set me down Charles Macklin, Esq. as theyare now synonimous terms.A celebrated physician being sent for by a lady1Gwho imagined herself very ill, she slept too sound,and had a very uncommon flow of spirits. Makeyourself perfectly easy Madam, said the docterxfol¬low my prescription, and you shall soon have noneof these things to complain of.Two friends, who had not seen each other a greatwhile, meeting by chance, one asked the other howhe did ? He replied, that he was not very well,and was married since they had last met. That isgood news indeed. Nay, not so very good neither,for I married a shrew. That is had, too. Not sohad, neither, for I had two thousand pounds withher. That is well again. Not so well neither,for I laid it out in sheep, and they all died of therot. That was hard, in truth. Not so hard neither,for I sold the skins for more than the sheep cost me.Aye that made you amends. Not so much atne ndsneither, for I laid out my money in a house, and itwas burned. That w’as a great loss, indeed. Notso great a loss, neither—for my wife was burnedin it!A religious English gentleman lately advertisedfor a coachman, and had a great number of appli¬cations. One of them he approved of, and toldhim, if his character answered, he would lake himon the terms wdiich they had agreed : But. saidhe, my good fellow-, as I am rather a particularman, it may he proper to inform you, that every17evening, arter the business in the stable is done, Ishall expect you to come to my house for a quarterof an hour, to attend family prayers—to this I sup¬pose you can have no objection ? Why, as to that.Sir, (replied the fellow) I does not see much to sayagainst it, but I hope you'll consider it in mywages.An English gentleman being taken ill of the yel¬low fever at Jamaica, a lady, whom he had marri¬ed in that island, indirectly hinted to him, in thepresence of an Irish physician, who attended him,the propriety of making his will, in a country wherepeople are so apt to die. The physician, thinkinghisjudgement called inquestion, tartly replied. Tru¬ly, Madam, I wish you would tell me that countrywhere people do not die, and I will go and end mydays there,A man being asked by his neighbours, how hiswife did ? made this answer : Indeed, neighbour,the case is pitiful, my wife fears she shall die, andI fear she will not die, which makes a most discon¬solate house.A great crowd being gathered about a poor cob¬bler who had just died in the street, a man askedAlexander Stevens what was to be seen P Only aCobler’s End, replied he.Bayle says that a woman will inevitably divulgeISevery secret with which she is intrusted, except one,and that is— her own age.An Irish soldier, who came over with GeneralMoore, being ashed if he met with much hospitalityin Holland ? O yes, replied he, too much : I wasin the hospital almost all the time I was there.The Duchess of York being in want of a lami -dres, desired the housekeeper to look out for someperson to fill that situation. A decent looking wo¬man was accordingly recommended ; but the house¬keeper objected to her, and, in the Duke’s presenceobserved, that she was a soldier’s wife, and thatthese people were generally had characters. Y hat’sthat you say, (replied the Duke) a soldier’s wife !pray what is your mistress ?—Engage the womanthis instant.i In a great storm at sea, when the ships crewwere all at prayers, a boy hurst into a violent fit oflaughter; being reproved for his ill-timed mirth,and asked the reason of it, Why, said he, I waslaughing to think what a hissing the boatswain’sred nose will make when it comes into the water.This ludicrous remark set the crew a-laughing, in¬spired them with new spirits, and by a great exer¬tion they brought the vessel safe into port.The following curious paragraph, in honour ofthe Dutch physicians, was lately inserted in one of'h* London Paper“ 1'he mortality in Groningen,219Dell't, and llotterdain, was very great; butafter the death of the three physicians, it is statedto have abated very considerably.’’Chateauneut, keeper of the seals of Louis XIII.when a boy of only nine years of age, was askedmany questions by a bishop and gave very promptanswers to them all. At length trelate said, 1 willgive you an orange if you will tell me where Godis ?—My Lord, replied the boy, I will give youtwo oranges, if you will tell me where he is not lDuring the great Frederick of Prussia’s last pain¬ful illness, that eminent physician Dr Zimmerman,of Hanover, attended him. One day, when hewaited upon his Majesty, the King said to him,You, Sir, I suppose, have helped many a man intoanother, world. Not so many, replied the doctor,as your Majesty, nor with so much honour to my¬self.An apothecary in Durham has the followingwords written in his shop-window: ‘ Dying studssold here.”A stranger, who had acquired the habit of stand-| ing long on one leg, came to Lacedemon to see thecity. Exhibiting this trick to a Spartan, he toldhim, vauntingly. You could not preserve that pos¬ture so long. I know that, replied the Lacede-| monian, but a goose can.Mrs Siddnns, in performing the character of20Jane Shore, having arrived at the conclusion of thataffecting tragedy, where she says, 4 Now I die ! 1die !” falls down, nature being supposed entirely ex¬hausted.—A sailor, perched on the front of theshilling gallery, forgetting that the distress of theactress was feigned roared out to the pit, Ho ! whydon’t some of you lubbers in that there hold handthe poor woman a can of grog, since she is so badlyDr Franklin, when last in England, used pleas¬antly to repeat an observation of his negro-servant,when the Doctor was making the tour of Derby¬shire, Lancashire, fee. ‘ Every thing, Massa,work in this country ; water work; wind work ; firework ; smoke work ; dog work ; (he had noticed thelast at Bath) man wor k ; bullock work ; horse work ;ass work; every thing work here but the hog ; heeat, he drink, he sleep, he do nothing all day, hewalk about like a gentleman !”One of the people called Quakers, equally re«markable for his gallantry to the fair sex, as for hisurbanity of manners, was one day walking in thestreets of Edinburgh with a handsome young ladywho remarked to him, that the heat of the day wasoppressive; on which the Quaker recommended herto throw' off a petticoat. The lady replied. Be¬tween you and I, friend G......S, 1 have but oneon. And between thee and me, replied broad¬brim, even that is one too many .’S0BM121A very young officer, striking an old grenadierof his company for some supposed fault in perform¬ing his evolutions, was unable to reach any higherthan his legs. The grenadier, upon this infantineassault, gravely took off his nap, and holding it overthe officer by the tip, said. Sir, if you were not myofficer, I would extinguish you.Francis I, having imposed a new tax it was re¬ported to him, as a treasonable offence, that thepeople mur/nured so much as not even to spare hissacred person. P.»h ! answered Francis, whyshould they not have amusement for their money ?A citizen dying greatly in debt, it corning tohis creditors’ ears. Farewell, said one there is somuch of mine gone with him. And he carried somuch of mine, said another'. One hearing themmake their several complaints, said. Well, I seenosv, that tho’ a man can carry nothing ot Iris ownout of the world, yet he may carry a great deal ofother men’s.A young fellow in the country, after having anaffair with a girl in the neighbourhood, said. Whatshall I do, Bess, if you prove with child P Oh !very well, said she for I am to he married to-morrow.A Bachelor friend of ours had a tine tortoise,which was allowed to creep about the kitchen. Sometime ago he hired a raw country girl, who never hadseen nor had of a tortoise in her life. One day ha22says to her, * Marget, what’s become of the tor¬toise?—I have not seen it for some days./* ButMarget ‘ didna ken ought about it.’ ‘ You hadbetter light a candle, and see if it has not got. intothe coal-hole: poor thing! it will be starving forwant of meat.’ A candle was accordingly lighted,and looking over her shoulder, he observed it, as hehad expected, snug among the coals. f Ah, thereit is, poor creature !’ said he: ‘ take it out, andplace it near the fire.’ 1 Is that what ye ca’ thetortoise quoth Marget in astonishment: ‘ Od,Sir, I’ve been breaking the coals wi’t this fortnightpast !’A few days ago a hawker, while cheapning his ha¬berdashery wares, was bawling out, ‘ Here’s thereal good napkins: they’ll neither tear, wear, ruffle,nor rive; throw in the washing, or go back in thepressing. All the water between the rocks of Gib¬raltar and the Cape of Good Hope will not alterthe colour of them. They were woven seven milesbelow ground by the light of diamonds; and thepeople never saw day light but once in the sevenyears. They were not woven by a brosy clumsyapprentice boy, but by a right and tight goodtradesman, who got two eggs, and a cup tea, and aglass of whisky to his breakfast; and every threadis as long and strong as would hang a bull, or drawa man-of-war ship into harbour.’23A man in the last stage of destitution, came be¬fore the sitting Magistrate, at Lambeth Street, andand stated that having by the operation of the newPoor Laws, been suddenly deprived of parish as¬sistance. he was reduced to such extremity, that ifnot instantly relieved he must he driven to do adeed that his soul abhorred. The worthy Magis-: trate instantly ordered him five shillings from thepoor-box, and after a suitable admonition againsti giving way to despair, asked him what dreadfuldeed he would have been impelled to do, but fori this seasonable relief; ‘ To work,' said the man,with a deep sigh, as he left the office.One day, at the table of the late Dr. Pearse,(Dean of Ely,) just as the cloth was removing, thesubject of discourse happened to be that of an ex¬traordinary mortality amongst the lawyers. ‘ Wehave lost,’ said a gentleman, ‘ not less than sixeminent barristers in as many months.’—The Dean,who was quiet deaf, rose as his friend finished hismark, and gave the company grace—‘ For this,nd every other mercy, the Lord’s name be praised!’In Salem, Massachusets. after the heavy andlep snow fall, a man was discovered sticking sticksnto a huge ‘ winter bank of snow.’ On being•ked why he amused himself thus? ‘ Amuse!’id he, with a voice which betrayed the deepest21anxiety of mind, ‘ fine amusement! I have lost myshop—it used to stand somewhere near this spot.During the last Assizes, in a case of assault andbattery, where a stone had been thrown by the de¬fendant, the following clear and conclusive evidencevias drawn out of a Yorkshireman :—Did you seethe defendant throw the stone ?—I saw a stone,and 1’ze pretty sure the defendant throwed it.---Was it a large stone?—-I should say it war a lar-geish stone.—What was its size ?—I should saysizeable stone.—Can’t you answer definitely how-big it was ?—I should say it wur a stone of somabigness.— Can’t you give the jury some idea ofithe stone ?—Why, as near as 1 recollect, it wursomething of a stone.—Can’t you compare it tosome other object ?—Why, if I wur to compare it,,so as to give some notion of the stone, I should sa^it wur as large as a lump of chalk.