t *I No 13GUY FAWKES,OHTHE HISTORYOF THEUNPOTOEE PLOT,\IGUY FAWKES.OKTHE GUNPOWDER PLOT.The conspiracy called the Gunpowder Plotmust, for various reasons, be considered as oneof the most remarkable occurrences in Englishhistory. The atrocity of the design, the ex¬tent of the mischief intended, and the myste¬rious manner in which the scheme is representedto have been detected upon the eve of its exe¬cution, would alone be sufficient to give asurpassing interest to the story; while tneobservance of the anniversary periodicallyawakens the remembrance of Guy Fawkes andhis associates, and perpetuates the memory ofthe transaction by rendering its leading fea¬tures familiar even to our children.In order to form a fair judgment of thecauses which produced the Gunpowder Trea¬son, and to comprehend the motives of thosewho were engaged in it, it is necessary to con-isider generally the state of the English Catho-Hlics at that period, and to take a summaryview of the penal restrictions and liabilitiesto which, at the commencement of the reign ofJames I., the adherents to the Roman Churclwere subject.The laws passed against recusants in thelatter years of the reign of Elizabeth were ex¬tremely severe; and whatever may have beenthe object with which they were passed, andwithout discussing the debatable question of-tGUY FAWKKS, ORtheir necessity for the preservation of the Pro¬testant establishment from the practices of dis¬affected and turbulent fanatics, at that timeexcited and encouraged by the mischievous in¬terference of the Pope, it may be observed thattheir effect undoubtedly was to withdraw fromthe Catholics the common rights and libertiesof Englishmen, and to place all persons, how¬ever loyal to the existing Government, who ad¬hered, from conscience and principle, to theancient religion, in a state of unmerited perse¬cution and suffering. By these laws, Catholicswere not only forbidden to use the rites andceremonies of their own faith, but were re¬quired to attend upon the services of a Church,which, if conscientious and consistent, theywere bound to abhor as heretical and damna¬ble. If they refused or forbore to come to aProtestant church on the Sabbath, they wereliable to a penalty of i?20 for every lunarmonth during which they absented themselves.The public exercise of the social rites of theirown Church was virtually interdicted; for itwas enacted, ‘ that every priest saying masswas punishable by a forfeiture of two hundredmarks, and every person hearing it by a for¬feiture of one hundred marks, and both wereto be imprisoned a year, and the priest untilhis fine was paid.’ The ministers of their re¬ligion, without whose presence they were pre¬cluded from the exercise of the Sacraments andother rites, were in effect proscribed andbanished ; for, by a statute passed in 1 o85,(27 Eliz c. 2,) it was enacted, ‘ that all Jo •: J -.seminary and other priests, ordained since thebeginning of the Queen’s reign, should departout of the realm within forty days after theTHE GUNPOWDER PLOT. fttend of that session of Parliament; and thatJail such priests, or other religious persons, or¬dained since the same time, should not comeinto England, or remain there, under the painhof suffering death as in case of treason/ It:vwas also enacted by the same statute, ‘ that alla persons receiving or assisting such prieststf;should be guilty of a capital felony.1 When am person professing the Popish religion was con¬i'victed in a court of law of absenting himself/from the Established Church, he was termed a‘ Popish recusant convictsuch a person was/ liable, by the 35 Eliz. c. 1, to be committed toic prison without bail until he comormed anda made submission ; and if he did not, within1. three months after conviction, submit and re-pair to the Established Church, he must abjurelj the realm; and if he refused to swear, or did(i not depart upon his abjuration, or if ho return-t» ed without licence, he was guilty of felony, andn might suffer death as a felon, without benefito of clergy. No doubt, these rigorous laws werejj not at all times enforced to their utmost ex-j tent; but ihey placed the whole body of the> Catholics at the mercy of the Protestant) Government, who were enabled to crush ori spare them at their discretion or caprice; forf them, therefore, there was no liberty, personal) or religious, but such as the Privy Councilf thought proper to allow : ami with referencet to their religion, the law gave them no rights,i and afforded them no protection. When weremember that the victims of the laws aboveenumerated considered themselves to be themajority of the gross population of the country ;that the chief sufferers were the principal no¬bility and gentry of the land, whose ancestors6 orry pawkes, orhad aerved the Kings of England, before theReformation, in the highest offices of state, andwhose honours and possessions were the proofsof royal favour and distinction conferred ontheir predecessors; when we consider, moreover,that these persons were thus impoverished and.disgraced for their adherence to that ancientreligion to whose rites and ceremonies theywere attached by early and hereditary associa¬tions, and whose power and influence theywere bound by the strongest obligations tomaintain and defend against what was to theman abominable heresy, we shall be at no lossto comprehend the bitter feelings of discontentwhich prevailed amongst the English Catholicsunder Elizabeth, and which produced a con¬stant succession of plots and rebellions, moreor less important and alarming, during thelast twenty years of her reign.Although it must be admitted that the lawsin existence against the Catholics at this periodwere not constantly enforced against them, itmust not, on the other hand, be supposed thatthey were merely suspended, in terrorem, overthe heads of those against whom they were di¬rected, for the purpose of restraining the se¬ditious attempts of the disaffected. There is nodoubt that they were often practically appliedto a very severe extent; and there were fewCatholic families who had not in some degreeexperienced their rigour. Of this, many in¬stances might be adduced.As Elizabeth’s life declined, it was naturalthat a party so oppressed should direct theirattention with much anxiety to her probablesuccessor. Having abandoned all expectationof an avowed Catholic heir to the cro\vn, theyTHE GUNPOWDER PLOT.7were led by many circumstances to look forwardwith hope to the succession of James. Theyremembered that he was born of Catholic pa¬rents, and that he had been baptized by aCatholic archbishop ; they relied upon the feel¬ings of dislike with which they supposed thathe must regard the party who had caused theexecution of his mother ; they knew that seve¬ral of the ordinances of the Roman Churchwere approved by him ; and they had heard andbelieved that he had, on more than one occa¬sion, expressed a willingness to be reconciledto the Apostolic See. But, besides these gene¬ral presumptions of a disposition favourable totheir party, the leading Catholics were attachedto the cause of James, by the express assurances of a toleration for their religion, whichwere generally reported to them from variousquarters, and, in particular, by individuals de¬spatched to Edinburgh for the purpose of as¬certaining his intentions upon that subject.But the fond hopes and expectations of theCatholics were dissipated and destroyed beforesix months of James’ Government had passedaway. Symptoms of an anti-Catholic disposi¬tion appeared as soon as he felt himself firmlyseated on the throne. De Beaumont says,that ‘ within a month after his arrival inLondon, he answered an objection made inconversation to the appointment of Lord HenryHoward to a scat in the Privy Council, on ac¬count of his being a Catholic.’ The sameauthority farther reports, that ‘ he maintain¬ed openly at table that the Pope was thetrue Antichrist, with other like blasphemiesworthy of his doctrine.’ A proclamation, datedFebruary 22, 1603-4, in whiph the King com8GUY FAWKES, ORmanded all Jesuits, Seminarists, and other ipriests, to depart the realm before the 19th of!March following, and not to return, under thepenalty of being left to the rigour of the laws.These repeated threats were practically en¬forced by proceedings in Parliament, and gene- irally throughout the country, which distinctlyindicated to the dismayed Catholics a returnto the persecutions and indignities of the reignof Elizabeth.Though all were alike disappointed and dis¬contented, it is clear that the general body ofthe English Catholics did not at this time con¬template forcible measures for the removal oftheir grievances. Many, however, and, in par¬ticular, those who were attached to the Jesuits’party, now wholly despairing of obtaining fromthe justice of the King, or by peaceable means, .any alleviation of their degradation andmisery, and despising and rejecting the coun¬sel of the more moderate, readily lent an ear toany scheme of vengeance however desperateand sanguinary.The design of blowing up the House of Lordswith gunpowder at the opening of Parliament, :and thus destroying, at a single blow, the King,the Lords, and the Commons, was formed aboutthe summer of 1604. The conceiver of thisdesperate and bloody vengeance was liobertCatesby, a Catholic, the son of Sir WilliamCatesby, who had been several times imprisonedfor recusancy, It is uncertain whether, inorder of time, Catesby first disclosed his schemeto John Wright or to Thomas Winter, theformer descended from a respectable family inYorkshire, the Wrights of Plowland, in Holder-ness; the latter, from the Winters in Hud-t'HE GONPOWDfell 1'l.Ot. ^(lington, in Worcestershire, where they hadbeen in possession of estates since the time ofHenry VI. At a conversation held betweenthese conspirators, it was agreed that Wintershould go over to the Netherlands to meet Ve¬lasco, constable of Castile, who had arrived atFlanders on his way to England to conclude apeace between James and the King of Spain,and him to solicit his Majesty torecal the penallaws against the Catholics, and to admit theminto the rank of his other subjects. Winterreceived no encouragement from Velasco thathe would stipulate in the treaty of peace for| the liberties of the English Catholics ; and soreturned to England, taking Fawkes alongwith him, but without, at that time, communi¬cating to him the nature of Catesby’s purpose.Guido, or Guy Fawkes, whose name hasbeen more generally associated with this plotthan that of any of the other conspirators, inconsequence of the prominent part he under¬took in the execution of it, was a gentleman ofgood family and respectable parentage in York¬shire. His father, Edward Fawkes, was anotary at York, and held the office of Registrarand Advocate of the Consistory Court of theCathedral. Of the education and early historyof Guy Fawkes nothing is known ; but havingspent the little property he derived from hisfather, he enlisted as a soldier of fortune in theSpanish army in Flanders, and was present atthe taking of Calais by the Archduke Albertin 1598. He was well known to the EnglishCatholics, and had been despatched by SirWilliam Stanley and Owen from Flanders tojoin Christopher Wright on his embassy toPhilip IT. immediately after Qn <;n Elizabeth’s10 GUY FAWKES, OKdeath. Father Greenway, who knew all thaconspirators intimately, describes him as ‘ aman of great piety, of exemplary temperance,of mild and cheerful demeanour, an enemy ofbroils and disputes, a faithful friend, and re¬markable for his punctual attendance upon re¬ligious observances.’ His society7 is stated, bythe same authority, to have been ‘ sought by allthe most distinguished in the Archduke’s campfor nobility and virtue.’ If this account of hischaracter be correct, we are to look upon thisman, not, according to the popular notion, as amercenary ruffian ready for hire to performthe chief part in any tragedy of blood, but asan enthusiast whose understanding had beendistorted by superstition, and in whom fana¬ticism had conquered the better feelings ofnature. His conduct, after the discovery of theplot, is quite consistent with the character ofa fanatic.Soon after Winter’s return to London, Tho¬mas Percy, the relation and confidential stewardof the Earl of Northumberland, joined the fourconspirators already mentioned. They met byappointment at a house in the fields beyond StClement’s Inn, and Catesby, Percy, ThomasWinter, John Wright, and Fawkes, then seve¬rally took an oath in the following form :—‘ You swear by the blessed Trinity, and by theSacrament you now propose to receive, neverto. disclose, directly or indirectly, by word orcircumstance, the matter that shall be proposedto you to keep secret, nor desist from the exe¬cution thereof until the rest shall give you leave.’This oath was given by them to each other inthe most solemn manner, ‘ kneeling down upontheir knees, with their hands laid on a primer.’THE GUNPOWDER PLOT. 1 ii'hey then heard mass, and received the Sacra-lent from Father Gerard, a Jesuit missionry, in confirmation of their vow. ThomasVinter and Fawkes both state the secret wa*ot communicated to Gerard. Percy took theext step. He was a gentleman pensioner,nd, upon pretence that it would be convenient) him when in attendance in that capacity, heurchased of one Ferris the remainder of aihort term which he had in the lease of a house(djoining the Parliament House. It was,accordingly, taken in Percy’s name, under arritten agreement with Ferris, the original ofxhich, dated May 24, 1604, may be seen ataie State-Paper Office. From the cellar ofiiis house a mine was to be made through the[fall of the Parliament House, and a quantity; f gunpowder and combustibles to be deposit-d immediately under the House of Lords,'awkes, who was unknown in London, and>ad assumed the name of Johnson, acted asPercy’s servant, and took possession of the;ouse. Parliament was soon afterwards ad-sjurned till the 7th February ; and the con¬spirators, having first hired a house in Lam-ieth for the preparation of timber for thonine, and a place of deposit for combustibles,rgreed to meet in London about the begin¬ning of November. The custody of the housei Lambeth was committed to Robert Keyes,he son of a Protestant clergyman in Derby-hire, but himself a Catholic : the oath of se-recy was administered to him also.I The proceedings of the Star-Chamber, duringhe interval of their meetings, so exasperatedhe conspirators, that they became more eagerhan ever about the plot. Catesby and his con-12 GUY FAWKES, Oilfederates,according to aprevious agreement, as¬sembled in the house about the 11th of Decem¬ber, and a mine was immediately commenced.The stone wall, however, which separated themfrom the Parliament House, being found threeyards in thickness, Keyes and the youngerbrotherof John Wright(who was enlisted as theothers had been) were called in to assist, andthe seven men were thus occupied until Christ-mas-eve without their ever appearing in theupper part of the house. ‘ All which seven,’says Fawkes in his examination, ‘ were gentle¬men of name and blood ; and not any was em¬ployed in or about this action, no, not so muchas in digging and mining, that was not a gen¬tleman. And while the others wrought, I stoodas sentinel to descry any man that came near;and when any person came near the place, up¬on warning given by me, they ceased until theyhad again notice from me to proceed ; and weseven lay in the house, and had shot and pow¬der, and we all resolved to die in that place be¬fore wo yielded or were taken.1During their laborious employment, they hadmuch Consultation respecting the scheme to beadopted. It was supposed that Prince Henrywould accompany the King to the ParliamentHouse, and perish there with his father. TheDuke of York, afterwards Charles I., would thenbe the next heir, arid Percy undertook to securehis person, arid carry him off in safety as soon asthe fatal blow was struck. If this scheme shouldfail, the Princess Elizabeth, who was under thecare of Lord Harrington at his house near Co¬ventry, might be easily surprised and secured bya party provided in the country. It was the in¬tention to proclaim ouo of the Royal Family asTHE GUNPOWDER X’LOT.ISking. It was also arranged that Warwickshireshould be the general rendezvous, and that supplies of horses and armour should be sent to thehouses of several of the conspirators in thatcounty, to be used as occasion might requireall which was accordingly attended to.In the midst of these deliberations, Fawkesbrought intelligence that the Parliament hadagain been prorogued from the 7th of Februaryto the 3d of October following. The conspira¬tors, therefore, separated for a timer; and, inthe mean while, John Grant of Norbrook, inWarwickshire, and Robert Winter of Had¬dington, were sworn in among their number. InFebruary (1G04-5,) their labours were resumed,and the stone wall nearly half broken through.Father Green way observes, that ‘it seemedalmost incredible that men of their quality, ac¬customed to live in ease and delicacy, couldhave undergone such severe labour; and espe¬cially that, in a few weeks, they could haveeffected much more than as many workmenwould have done who had been ail their livesin the habit of gaining their daily bread by theirlabour.’ In particular, he remarks that ‘ itwas wonderful how Percy and Catesby, whowere unusually tall men, could endure for solong a time the intense fatigue of working dayand night in the stooping posture which wasrendered necessary by the straightness of theplace,’One morning, while working upon the wall,they suddenly heard a rushing noise in a cellarnearly above their heads. At first, they fearedthey had been discovered; but Fawkes, beingdespatched to reconnoitre, found that oneBright, to whom the cellar belonged, was sell-GUY FAWKES, OKing off his coals in order to remove. Fawkescarefully surveyed this large vault situatedimmediately below the House of Lords, andperceived its fitness for their purpose. Thedifficulties connected with breaking throughthe wall, its thickness, the damp of the situa¬tion, for water was continually oozing throughthe stone work, and the danger of discoveryfrom noise, disposed the confederates to aban¬don their operations, and to possess them¬selves of the cellar of Bright. The vault wasimmediately hired, and thirty-six barrels ofpowder were carried by night from Lambeth ;iron bars and other tools that had been usedin mining were also thrown among the powderthat the breach might be the greater, and thewhole was covered over with faggots. Lumberof various kinds was placed in the cellar, to pre¬vent any suspicion of the curious or the watch¬ful.In May 1605, the preparations were com¬plete : the conspirators, having marked thedoor, in order that it might be seen if anyone entered the vault, consented to separate.Before their separation, however, it was pro¬posed that an attempt should be made to ob¬tain foreign co-operation, by informing SirWilliam Stanley and Owen of the project. Thiswas agreed to on condition of their being swornto secrecy, and Fawkes was despatched toFlanders for the purpose of conferring withthem. Sir Edmund Baynham was also sent ona mission to the Pope, that, when the news ofthe explosion arrived at Home, he might beprepared to negotiate on behalf of the conspi¬rators, and to explain that the design of theplot was the re-establishment of Catholicism.THE GUNPOWDER PLOT.15Soon after Fawkes’ return from Flanders, theParliament was further prorogued from Octo¬ber to the 5th of November. These repeatedprorogations alarmed the conspirators, anded them to fear that their project was sus¬pected. Their alarms, however, having beendiscovered to be groundless, Catesby purchasedhorses, arms, and powder, and, under the pre-:ence of making levies for the Archduke inFlanders, assembled friends who might beirmed in the country when the first blow wasstruck. As considerable sums of money werelecessary for these purposes, it was proposed:o admit into the confederacy three wealthynen—Sir Everard Digby, of Tilton and Dry-toke, in Rutlandshire, who was then onlywenty-four years of age ; Ambrose Rookwood,f Coldham Hall, in Stanningfiehl, Suffolk ; andrancis Tresham, of Rushton, in Northamp¬tonshire, the two first intimate friends, and theast a near relation of Catesby. These gentle-5,nen were afterwards sworn in.The particulars of what took place at theicommunication of the plot to Tresham byfiJatesby are unknown; however, he at firstleemed to agree to it cordially, and undertook10 furnish i?2000 towards the promotion of thefleheme. The sincerity of Tresham seems tonave been always suspected by some of the con¬spirators ; and probably nothing but the temp-i.ation of the great wealth of which he hadlately become possessed upon his father’s death,a.nd his devotion to the Catholic religion, wouldMiave induced them to consent to his receptionfrmongst them. He was known to be mean,treacherous, and unprincipled ; and his charac-i er must have been fully understood by Catesby,%GtTY FAWKES, 6ilvvho was not only his near relation, but hadbeen brought up with him, and had been en¬gaged with him in several treasonable conspi¬racies. Father Greenway states, that Catesbyafterwards repented that he had admittedTresham into the confederacy ; that from themoment of his introduction he mistrusted him ;and that the most fearful forebodings, excitedand supported by ominous dreams portendingthe failure of his scheme, took possession of hismind.As the day of meeting of Parliament ap¬proached, it was finally determined that Fawkesshould fire the mine with a slow match, whichwould allow him a quarter of an hour to escape.He was instantly to embark on board a vesselin the river, and to proc ed to Flanders withthe intelligence of what had been done. SirEverard Digby was to assemble a number ofCatholic gentlemen in Warwickshire on the5th of November under pretence of a huntingparty, 'and Percy was to seize the Prince ofWales, or the Duke of York if the Princeshould go to the Parliament House with theKing. One subject of discussion only arose,whether and how the Catholic Peers should bewarned of their danger. Each conspirator hadfriends, if not relations among them ; but thedanger of communicating the project to solarge a number of persons was considered soimminent, that they despaired of saving all ofthem; and it was concluded that no expressnotice should be given them, but only such per¬suasion, upon general grounds, as might deterthem from attending. Many of the conspira¬tors were averse to this advice, and angry at itsadoption, and Tresham in particular, for hisTHE GlfM’OWDER FLO .7sisters had inan ied Lords Stourton and Mount-Beagle. Indeed, Tresham so passionately re-ijquired that Lord Mount eagle should havejwarning of his danger, that very high wordsriensued ; and when he was thwarted in his'(wishes, he hinted that the money he had pro-(imised would not be forthcoming; and fromthis time he ceased to attend their councils.On Saturday, the 26th of October, ten daysbefore the meeting of Parliament, Lord Mount-eagle unexpectedly gave a supper in a houseiwhich he had not lately occupied. Circum-li stances have given rise to a belief that he wasI privy to the plot at the time that he invitedhis friends, and that the supper was only givenas a convenient opportunity of discovering theconspiracy to them. Be this as it may, whilsthe was at table, a letter was brought to him byone of his pages, who stated that ho had re¬ceived it in the street from a stranger, whopressed its instant delivery into his master’shands. The letter was as follows :—i‘ My Lord,—Out of the love I bear to some;of your friends, I have a care for your preserv-i ation ; therefore, I would advise you, as youi: tender your life, to devise some excuse to shift< off your attendance on this Parliament, for| God and man have determined to punish theI wickedness of the times. And think notslightly of this advertisement; but retire your¬self into the country, where you may expectthe event in safety. For though there be noappearance of any stir, yet I say they will re¬ceive a terrible blow this Parliament ; and yetthey shall not see who hurts them. This coun¬sel is not to be contemned, because it may dov you good, and can do you no harm ; for theGUY FAWKES, ORdanger is over as soon as you have burned thiletter. And I hope God will give you the gracto make use of it, to whose holy protectioncommend you.—To the Right Honourable thLord Mounteagle.’—This letter has been ascribed to Anne, the daughter of Lord Vaux, fcMrs Abington, Lord Mounteagle’s sister, fcPercy, and to others ; but there seems greate*reasons for believing that no one of these wathe writer of it, but rather that Tresham waits author.On the same evening, Lord Mounteagle shewed the letter to several Lords of the Councilwho, with him, agreed that no steps should betaken until the King returned from hunting atRoyston. The contents of the letter and itscommunication to many of the Council, as wellas to the Secretary of State, soon reached theears of the conspirators ; but, though theirdanger was evident, and the vessel which wasto convey Fawkes to Flanders was lying in theriver, they made no attempt to escape. Allsuspected Tresham to be their betrayer, andhe was accused by them, but he vehemently de¬nied the accusation. Since they did not knowaccurately to what extent their proceedingshad been divulged, they had still hope of effect¬ing their design, especially as, upon examina¬tion, Fawkes found that the cellar -was notwatched and had not been disturbed. When,however, they heard that, on the Slst of Octo¬ber, the letter had been shewn to the King,their hope diminished and their fears increased.Some of the conspirators left London ; othersconcealed themselves in an obscure lodging;all held themselves ready to start at a moment’sWarning. Fawkes alone, with the extraordi-THE GUNPOWDER PLOT. 19I nary courage which he had displayed through-out the transaction, took up his station in thecellar. Thus they passed three days of anxietyand suspense.On the Monday afternoon, the Lord Cham¬berlain, whose duty it was to see that all thearrangements for the meeting of Parliamenty|were complete, went to the Parliament House,accompanied by Lord Mounteagle, who, it wassaid, expressed a desire to be present at the[search. They first went into the ParliamentChamber, and remained there a considerabletime ; and then, for the alleged purpose of!looking for some stuff of the King’s, they visit¬ed the vaults and cellars under the house.They remarked the great store of coals andwood there, and perceived Fawkes standing inia corner. The Lord Chamberlain, with affect-i<ed carelessness, inquired to whom this unusulially large provision of fuel belonged ; and being3informed that the cellar and its contents be-1 longed to Percy, and that he had rented it forabout a year and a half, retired without mak¬ing any more particular search, to report his[(observations to the King. On their way, Lord| Mounteagle expressed his fears and suspicionsuon the ground, that, though he was an intimate!friend of Percy, and had lived with him formany years on terms of familiarity, he had notthe least notion that he ever inhabited this(house. Upon hearing the statement of theJ Lord Chamberlain, who declared the store of>*, coals and wood to be beyond all proportion to1: the wants of a person who dwelt so little in thehouse as Percy, and that the man (Fawkes) inI; the cellar looked like ‘ a very tall and desperatej'fellow’ it was determined by the King, with20GUY FAWKES, ORthe concurrence of several of the Privy Council,that the cellar should that night be minutelysearched. In order, however, not to excitepremature alarm, they employed Sir ThomasKneyet a magistrate in Westminster, (whohad bo : a gentleman of the Privy Chamberin the late Queen’s time, and still held the,same office.) to superintend a complete searchof all the houses and cellars in the neighbour¬hood, under the pretence of looking for somestuff and hangings in the keeping of Whine-ard, the keeper of the King’s wardrobe, whichhad been missing ever since the death of thelate Queen.Meanwhile, the visit of Lord Mounteagle andthe Lord Chamberlain had been quite sufficientto alarm the vigilance of Fawkes. He wentout to inform Percy of what had happened, butreturned himself to his dangerous post; fullydetermined, as he afterwards declared, to haveblown up the house on the first appearance ofdanger, and so to have perished together withthose who might come to apprehend him.Shortly before midnight, on the eve of thecelebrated 5th of November, Sir Thomas Kne-vet, accompanied by a sufficient number of as¬sistants, repaired secretly and suddenly to thehouse. A t the moment of their arrival, Fawkeswas stepping out of the door, dressed and boot¬ed, having, as he afterwards said, just thenended his work. He was stayed, and Sir Tho¬mas Knevet proceeded to examine the cellar,where he found thirty-six barrels of gunpowderunder the billets, in casks and hogsheads. Uponthis discovery, Fawkes was seized, and boundhand and foot; a watch, together with slowmatches and touchwood, were found upon hisTHE GITNPOWPER PLOT.erson ; and a dark lantern, with a light in it,as discovered in a corner behind the door ofhe cellar. Fawkes at once avowed his pur¬pose to the magistrate, and declared that ‘ifle had happened to he within the house whenle took him, he would not have failed to havejlown him up, house and all.1Having left a sufficient guard with the pri¬soner, Sir Thomas Knevet repaired to White-Jiall to give notice of his success to the Earl■of Salisbury. Such of the Council as slept atiWhitehall were called, and the others who3were in the town summoned; and the doorsI and gates being secured, all assembled in thej King’s bed-chamber. Fawkes was brought inBand questioned. Undismayed by the sudden-Ifness of his apprehension, or bv the circum-!stances of this nocturnal examination beforethe King and Council, this resolute fanatic be¬haved with a Roman firmness of nerve, whichlifilled the minds of all present with astonish-Bment. To the impatient and hurried questions■ which were put to him with some violence and■ passion, he answered calmly and firmly. He■ gave his name as John Johnson, the servant| of Thomas Percy, declared his intention tonblow up the King, Lords, and Eishops, andc others who should have assembled at the open-H ing of the Parliament, refused to accuse anyo one as his accomplice ; and upon being askedi by the King how he could enter upon so bloodyis a conspiracy against so many innocent persons,) declared that ‘ dangerous diseases require ai desperate remedy.1 lleing questioned as to his; intentions by some of the Scotch courtiers, hetold them that ' one of his objects was to blowthem back into Scotland.1 After a great part22GUY FAW'KKS, ORof tho night had been spent in examinationFawkes was sent with a guard to the Tower. IAfter having received the news of the approhension of Fawkes, it was agreed by the coi 'spiratois, who had assembled at Ashby Ledgers:to take up arms with the few followers theycould collect, and to endeavour to excite t<rebellion the Roman Catholics in the counties,iof Warwick, Worcester, and Stafford, togetherwith those of Wales. This scheme was imme-jdiately adopted ; arms and horses were seized]upon, and different parties despatched over:'the country. But all their efforts were in vain,and the failure of the project so complete,,that their proceedings served no other pur¬pose than to point them out as members ofthe confederacy. A party of the King’s troopspursued some of the conspirators to Holbeach,and here an obstinate defence was made, inwhich the two Wrights, Percy, and Catesbywere killed, and Rookwood and Thomas Win¬ter wounded. The others were eventuallytaken. Treshayi died a natural death in pri¬son ; and on the 27th January 1606, eight per¬sons, namely, Robert Winter, Thomas Winter,Guy Fawkes, John Grant, Ambrose Rookwood,Robert Keyes, and Thomas Bates, were triedat Westminster by a special commission forbeing concerned in the Powder Plot. Sir Eve-rard Digby was arraigned and tried separatelyfor the same crime. Upon the trials, no wit¬ness was orally examined ; the evidence con¬sisted of the written declaration of Digby’sservant and of the prisoners themselves.There is reason to believe that Fawkes wastortured in order to make him confess morefully. All the prisoners were found guilty,THE GUNPOWDER PLOT.23And upon all the sentence of death was passed.The prisoners, after their condemnation andjudgment, were again removed to the Tower,where they remained till the Thursday follow¬ing, on which day four of them, viz. Sir Eve-rard Pigby, Robert Winter, John Grant, andThomas Rates, were drawn upon sledges andhurdles to a scaffold erected at the western endof St Paul’s Chu ch-yard. Great pains weretaken to render the spectacle of the executionas imposing as possible ; and, among other ar¬rangements made in order to guard againstany popular tumult, a precept was issued bythe Lord Mayor to the Aldermen of each wardin the city, requiring him to provide an ableand sufficient man, armed with a halbert, tostand at the door of every dwelling-house inthe streets through which the conspiratorswere to be drawn to execution, from seveno’clock in the morning until the return of theSheriffSir Everard Pigby was the first appointedfor execution, who ascended the scaffold with afirm and manly bearing; and, in a speechshort but expressive, stated his conviction inthe justice of the cause he had been engagedin in its religious aspect, but regretted it hadbeen against the legal authority, for which heasked forgiveness of God, of the King, and thewhole kingdom. Having engaged in prayer,he-ascended the ladder, and was immediatelylaunched into the unseen world.Winter and Grant expressed themselves innearly the same terms, who, after having prayed,ascended the fatal drop.Bates, who was the last executed, expressedhimself as sorry for his co-operation in the24 SUY FAWKES, 01! THE GUNPOWDER PLOT.plot, and regretted his having yielded to thesuggestion of his master, Oatesby, and engagedla the conspiracy which had been attendedwith such baneful fruits. He was then hangedand quartered. Thus terminated the Thurs¬day’s proceedings.On the following day were drawn from theTower to the Old Palace in Westminster, overagainst the Parliament House, where a scaf¬fold was erected for their execution, ThomasWinter, the younger brother, Ambrose Rook-wood, Robert Keyes, and fluido Fawkes theminor, by some called the ‘ devil of the vaultsof whom says an old author, • had he not beena devil incarnate, he had never conceived sovillanous a thought, nor been employed in sodamnable an action.’Winter and Rook wood appeared sorry forhaving been guilty of such a diabolical oJTencc ;and, having hung a short time at the halter,were dragged to the block, and there quicklydespatched.Keyes made little or no show of repentance,but went tip the ladder in a most indifferentmanner, where, not staying long, he turnedhim-'If olf with a great leap which broke therope ; tut after his fall, he was drawn to theblock, and divided into four parts.Fawkes, who was much weakened by thetorture he had undergone for the purpose ofextracting from him any statements that mightprejudice those of whom the Government enter¬tained suspicions, with difficulty, and with theassistance of the executioner, ascended thescaffold, and expiated, with his life, the offenceof which he was the intended perpetrator,