PLEASANT ARTFALKIRK:PHINTED BY T. JOHNSTON.OFEONEY CATCHINGANPThe Way to Thrive,BYTurning a Penny to Advantage :withA New Method of RegulatingDaily Expences.THEPLEASANT ARTV *HOFMONEY CATCHING.♦ * ' ' * i ^ ,,v 'V iHEN commerce and traffic was first begaain the world and men came to trade one withanothei, there was no use for money, nor needof it; for men bartered their soods, in exchangewith each other; and as in the infancy of theworld, some were tillers of the ground and other*were keepers of sheep; the one gave the othercorn, and took of their sheep in exchange for it.And this sort of trading is now generally in usein our foreign Plantations, to supply the want ofmoney. But in process of time, as trading in¬creased, so did luxury begin to abound ; and asluxury abounded, so mens want’s grew greater,which begat a necessity ofsome other way of com- Lmerce, and this was money ; which is of such an- Lriquity, that Josephus tell us, that Cain (the soa i•f Adam, and the first born of men) was very (greedy in gathering money together; though il3„«f what metal that money was made, and whetheri itSvas coined or not, he is silent’ Herodotus writeth. that the first that coinedj silver and gold, to buy and sell with, were theLydians. For silver and gold being the mosti precious of metals, was so n.uch valued, thati whatever any man wanted; might be purchased!' for it.Homer indeed tells us, that before tbe siege ofTroy men used to change' or barter one commo¬dity for another. But it is undeniable, that moneywas in use long before that time ; for when Abra¬ham purchased the field of Mfichpeiab, and theitlfieid in which it was, for abur\ing place for his[family, he gavefourhundred shekels Oliver for it;which the sacred text tells us. was current •noneyI with the merchant; and that was about the yearof the world 2083, rvnich was near , 00 yearshbefore the destruction of Trov. But though the(jmoney was current with the mefblunt, yet [iquestion whether it was coined or not; for it ra-iiither appears; that it received its value from itsweight than from any stamp that was upon it:(The weight ofa shekel beings quarter of an ounce,jijand the truevalue ofthat 15 pence of our money.(|.Abraham paid 251 .English money, for that bury-Iping place.1 We read likewise of pieces of silver, or silveri lings, before this, which was currnt money amonglithe nation at that day : for Abitnelecb, kinu ofoCrerar. having taking Abraham’s wife from him,•Jtupon a supposition thatshe was his sister; when he■Ipame to understand the truth of the matter, notItonly restored his wite to him again, but also gatebhima thousand pieces of silver, or silver lirigs; the; I lvalue of which thousand pieces (each piece being‘4worth 2s. 6d.) came to 1251 which at that day wa*a noble present for a king to give. ,But besides shekels and silverlings, there weretalents also, the weight of which was 750 ounces.A talent of silver contained the value of 1871.10s.Of each of these coins there is frequent mentioain the Holy Scriptures of the Old Testament.In the New Testament, Our Saviour, commandedPeter to take up the fish that first came to hand,and when he had opened its mouth, lie should findtherein a piece of money which he was to takeand oive the tax-gatherers for his Master andhimself: which piece of money was called a Stator,wh’«jh consisted of half an ounce of silver, the va¬lue of which was 2 shillings. And when the Jewscame to ensnare our Saviour, about the lawfulnessof paying tribute to Caesar, he desired him to shewthe tribute-money, and they shewed him a Penny,of value 7d-halfpenny ; and that this money wascoined and stamped, appears by our Saviour’s ask¬ing them, whose image and superscription wasupon it ? To which they answered, Caesar.But 1 need uot quote Scripture to prove thatthe Jews and Romans used to coin money, theimage and superscription given a value to it, andpromoting the currency of it; for silver was coineain Rome, in the year of the world 3672, which•was about 300 years before the Christian mra.History tells us, that silver was first of all coinedin the Isle Engina, and that in Rome it was stamp¬ed with the impression of a chariot and horses.And Janus caused brass to be coined with a faceon the one side, and a ship on the other, in me-.mory of S iturnus, who arrived there in a ship.Servius Tustus, a king of the Romans, first coinedbrass with the image of a sheep and an ox. Andii» «ome places leather cut into pieces, has had thestamp of authority put upon it, and so it was madej to pass for money. Anti in New England, theijfndians have money which they call Warn pom-ipege, which is of two sorts, one white, which theyImake of the stem or stock of the Periwinkle, which'they call Meteauhockt, when all the shell is brokenI off: and of this sort six of their small beads, (whichjthey make with holes to string the bracelets) arei current with the English for a penny. The otherj sort is black, inclined to blue, which is made ofthe shell of a fish, which they call Pcquanhock ;land of this sort, three makes an English penny.They who live upon the sea side generally makelef it, and as many make as will, none being deniedthe liberty of making it. This coin or money the;Indians set such a vaiue upon, that they bringidown all sorts of furs which they take in thecountry, and sell to the Indians and English fco,for this Indian money; and the currency of itateong them, makes them look on it as a goodicquivalent for what commodities thev have to sell.|il Both the English, Dutch, and French treading toi the Indians with it, above six hundred miles northand south from England.Which is sufficient to .shew, that the use ofi Money is very ancient, and is made use of by altnations, in trading with each other; and was firsth:invented as a medium in trade, and an equivalent11« all sorts of commodities.6The Misery of those that leant Moneyand are in Debt, eye.THERE is ro wise man that will covet monefor itsilf but for ihe use that is to be imdeofilfor money itself c mnot satisfy ; anti so-we antold by the wisest of men. Eccles. v. 10. • He tinloveth silver shall not be satbfied with silver juor he that loveth abundance with increase.”- fIn a time of famine, or in a beseiged city, a tnamay have money enough by him, and yet mawant a piece of bread. Money therefore is prizenot for itself, but for its use; because, as Solonuralso says, •* Money answers all things.” An<seeing without money a gir.n can have nothinthey must be very miserable that ; re without itCharity, in this last and iron age of the worijis grown so cold, that there is scarce any thing tibe got upon that account. If you are cold, charibwill not warm you; neither, if y ou are hungrywill it fill your belly ; but if you have moneyyou may .do both.If you have money, you may become one trthe Livery-men of London an Assistant, a War¬den, or a Master of a Company; but if you warnmoney, you wi.l never arrive to the honour of tbeadle ; for even for such an inferior employmen'you must make friends, and that cannot be don*without bribes, nor can you bribe without moneyIf you have money, you may be an honest mgaand a good man; but if you want money, youmust be a knave by consequence.Enquire of a rich man among his neighbours,what he is. meaning only whether he be a sub¬stantial man, and one that is responsible; anti.7l they will presently tell you, “he’s « my #oocli ns an, I’ll assure youthough at the Some tithe,1 with respect to his morals, he is as profligate(a fellow as any in tho whole parish, ani one thatlives by oppressing his neighbours, ah*l tibWg alli manner of injustice; his money making amendsii for all his enormities.1 knew a certain tradesman in London, thatI had an uncle, a rich covetous fellow, tint wastJ worth mmy a thousand; this poor man addressedi bimself to his unde, to give him a 1001. to setkim up ; hut he knew the worth of money betterr ihnh to part with it, before death forced it fromi him, and told him plainly, he wou'd give hun no-i thing while he lived, but itmightbettewohkl leave1 faimsOtnething when hedied. especially if he foundi him industrious, and that he put himself in a wayii to live. The poor man had but little money,ft and less credit, and how to put himself in a wayill to live he knew not, his trade being none of thell best for journeymen. However, picking up aill little credit at one place, and a little at another,ihe addressedhimselfto the comp my he was tree of,and would fain have borrowed 50'. of them ; huttruly they would not lend it him, but upon suchsecurity as hecould not procure ; in th'S extremityhaving put himself into a shop he goes again tohis uncle, to desire him to lend him a little money,telling him he had set up in trade, and was gotinto a shop, but wanted money to carry on h>*business, and desired him to lend him a little.His uncle finding he was getting into a way. outof his generosity lends him 20'. hut makeshim give him a bond to pay him again in a year’stime. The poor man hid almost as good beenwithout his money, as to have bear under such*n obligation ; but be ^as resoiretl to keep totici*with him, though he lived so p»orly ali the whilethat he was the scorn of his neighbours and fel¬low tradesmen, who looked upon him as a poorand. consequently a pitiful fellow; but for ali that,though with much ado he had the good fortan*to pay back his uncle the 201. within the timelimited: which his uncle took so well, that hetoldhim, Sincehetooksuch care to keep his word,he would remember him another time. And sahe did ; for having neither wife nor child, whenhe died, he divided his estate amongst his relations,and li ft this poor kinsman of his, thirty thousandpounds in ready money, and 15001. per annum.And now tnis poor man, whose poverty made himthe scorn of Ids neighbours and acquaintances be¬fore, became a very goad man all on a sudden,insomuch that the city took notice of him, andchose him sheriff die very next year; and thecompany that before refused to lend him 501.now chose him their master, and were all hishumble servants; and he was applauded and criedup by every one. Here wa. now a mighty change,sud yet the rnan was the same, still; it was moneyanly made the diffeience. Judge therefore whe¬ther want of money be not an evti aordinary mis¬ery. and a great unhappiness.This puts me in mind of a story I have beardrelated of Jocelin Percy, Esq , brother to th«Earlof Northumberland, who going bya butcher'sshop near Cow-Cross, affronted his dog, wh#thereupon fell a-barking at him, and the Esquiredrew his sword and run him through. Thebutcher, v, ho was troubled for the loss of his dog,charged a constable with the Esquire, who carriedhim before a Justice that knew him not; the, Justice asked him why he killed thebutcher's dog?Ths Esquire answered him very'carelessly. Becausei the dog run at him. Run atyou, says Mr. Justice !! How did he run at you ? To which Psicy (beinga comical sort af a man) replied. He run at me thus| Bough, wough wough !! ! and therewith takinga little run upon the Justice, threw him and hischair down together! When Mr. Justice lookedupon as such affront to ids Worship, that nothingwould atone for but committing him to Nswgate,i aggravating the crime of killing the butcher s dog,I telling him, His dog was his servant, and that fori ought he knew, himself or some of his gang, de¬signed to rob his shop ; but he would make an ex-i ample of him. Percy seemed very litlle concernedI at what the Justice said, which provoked him thei more; and therefore he called the clerk to makehis mittimus, who asking him what his name was,i he said Jocelin. What besides Jocelin ? said theI Clerk. Percy said he. Of what place ? replied|!:l the Clerk. Of Northumberland-house, nearill Charing-Cross, said he. The Justice hearing this,iii; and knowing there was a very comical gentlemann of that name, who was brother to the Earl ofI Northumberland, then a great favorite with his|| Majesty, changed his tone at once and asked himiji if he was brother to the Earl ? On being answered:ji in the affirmative, he addressed himself to thed butcher in an angry tone, telling him, he wouldexamine into the affair, and that he would learni him better than let his dog loose to molest gentle-£ men as they walked the street, and that he wouldhave him bound over to the peace at the Quarter-Sessions for his future behaviour, Which hewould have done, and perhaps more, had not! Percy itnerfered in his behalf. At this altcratio*10the poor butcher was terrified. The Justice the* V|laddressed himself to the Esquire, and begged his tipardon for using him in such a manner, imputing il IIto his not knowing Iris quality. The Esquire, |lwith a smile ; replied that he must also beg his jtpardon for throwing him and his chair over.'ftThe Justice answered, there was no offence.T uis we may see the misery of wanting money.The butcher could certainly have punished Percyfor killing his dog in such an unprovoked manner,and wotpd have obtained it, had not the Justicediscovered Percy’s family, and let justice winkrather than offand the brother of a favorite ofbis Majesty’s. The poor liutcher must not onlycontent himself with 'the loss of his dog, but beglad he escaped so well. Jt is just so, generallyspeaking, in every state of life ; if a man be everso virtuous, and of the best principles, if he wantthat principle of principles, money, hewants everythinii, and is looked upon as a mean pitiful fellow;on tire contrrry, if a man be possessed of that,he hts every thing, though otherwise of the mostcon-rummate ignorance debauched life, and insig-niri ant conversation.I confess, if we look backward into the betterand wiser ages of the world, virtue, tho’ clothedin ra^s was more esteemed than the trappings ofthe gold ass ; it is in these last and worst of ;days that vice has got such an ascendant in theworld as to make men think all that are poorare miserable ; for in the primitive times, povertywas the brdge of religion and piety : and well it.might for not many great, nor many noble wereca led ; and the study of wisdom, and contempt ofthe world was then in esteem among the wisestphilosophers in the earliest ages. But as 'Ovid11The times are chang’d, and even weSeem changed with the times to be.0 that in these times, considering the miserj of‘ranting money is so great, we may say with the1 ise man, “ My son, is better to die than to:je poor.” Which saying was perhaps the occasionif an old miser’s mistake, who bid his son observe•hat Solomon said, ‘ Always keep a penny inlour pocket ” But his son answered again, Heid not remember that Solomon said any suchhing. The miser replied, •' Then Solomon was' jot so wise as I took him to be.”Indeed money is now Uecome the worldly man’sitod, and the card which thedevil turns up triumph!> win the game; for it gives birth, breeding,eauty, honour, and credit; an.i makes the posses-prs think themselves wise, tho’ their very think-sg so, declares them tools. But because moneynswers all things, and is in such vogue with the*orld, therefore many are so willing to purchase itnough with the loss of soul and body.But the want of money does not only cause menb be condemned end rediculed, but it also putsnen upon taken wicked and unlawful courses tobtain it: which made one sayO wretched poverty! a tool thou’rt made,1 To every evil act and wicked trade,cipbr it wresteth and maketh crooked the best na-SiVes; which aretorced. by their necessities, to doiinose things which they blush to think of, whde(fey are doing them : S'ich as borrowing, and notteing able to p ly ; to speak untruths, to cover and•disguise their poverty; to deceive, and sometimes1 o cheat their nearest relations. And all because'hen they are In want, they are scorned, andespised, aud perhaps disowned by them.Bnt before I leave this subject, of shewing themisery of wanting money, it is necessary I shoulitay somettiing of the misery of borrowing moneyor running in debt, which is a consequent o*wanting money; for he that does not want, liasno occasion to borrow, and is. in that respecthappy ; for being out of debt, he is out of danger,and therefore needs not seek forby-ways, to avoid Ihis creditors but can walk in the open streett1without fear, and whet his knife even at the gate*of the prison.But on the contrary, he that borrows moneylhas made himself such a slave to his cred tors, thahe dares hardly say his head is his own, and i»afraid that eveiy one he meets is a serjeant or abailiff, that intends to captivate his outward taber¬nacle : like the man that in the night-time, havinghis coat catched by a nail, and so stopped, he pre¬sently cried out, “ At whose suit ?” Supposing itwas a serjeant that had arrested him.The causes of Men’s wanting Money.INCE money is a thing so necessary and s<4useful, and the want of a competency of it, make*a man so very miserable, rendering him liable t#all the scorn and contempt that an ill nataredlworld can throw upon him; it seems strange s*>many should want it, especially those that knowthe worth of it. And therefore it may be wortJuear enquiring into the causes fro u whence thiswant proceeds : l mean the common and ordinary:(pauses ; for there are some causes that are extra-.13ordinary, such as all our wit and prudence caaneither foresee nor avoid. Such was that extra-ordinray and surprising storm in November 170S,whereby many thousands were undone, as to their1 estates, besides the many lives that were lost: andsuch also was the dreadful fire in London wherebysome that had great estates the one week, hadscarce breed to eat thenext: and in the time of warmany are unavoidable losers. But these must notbe reckoned the common and ordinary ways thatmake and keep men poor. We know indeed.that by the divine providence, in the body of acommon-wealth there must be both poor and rich,i even as an human body cannot subsist withoutI hands and feet to labour, and walk about to pro-vid for the other members ; the rich being theI belly, which devour all. yet do no part of thei work : but the cause of every man’s poverty isI not one and the same ; some are poor by conditio*hi »ud content with their calling, and neither seekii nor can work themselves into better condition ;yet (rod raiseth up, as by a miracle, the childrenand posterity of these, oftentimes, to possess thei most eminent places either in church or commonwealth, as to become Archbishops, Bishops, JudgesCorrmanderS'general in the field, Secretaries ofState, Statesmen, and the like : so that it. provethnot always true which the poet say,If poor thou art, then poor thou shall remain ^Rich men alone do now rich gifts obtain.Of this condition are the greatest number in everyii kingdom: others there are, who have possessed»; great estates, but those estates have not thrivennr continued, being gotten by oppession, deceit,usury, and the like, which commonly lasteth nett« the third generation, according to the poet.It seldom is the grandchild’s lot.To be the heir of goods not justly got.Others come to want and misery, by spendingtheir fair estates in ways of vicious living, as ondrink and women; for Bacchus and Venus areinseparable companions; and he that is fanuittrwith the one, is never a stranger to the other.In same way, manner and end.Both wine and Women no oifend.Some again live in perpetual want, being natu.rally wholly given to iuleness: These are thedrones of a c«mmon-wealth, who deserve not tolive. “ He that lahoureth not, should not cat.—Labour night and day, rather than be burthen-some,” saith the apostle Paul: both country andcity swarm with this kind of people ; “ The dili¬gent hand, saith Solomon, shall make rich : butthe sluggard shall have a scarcity of bread.”I remember, when I was in the Low Countries,there were three soldiers, a Dutch-man, a Scot,and an Englishman, who. for their misdemeanors,were condemned to be hanged ; yet their liveswere begged by three several men one a biick-layer, that he might help h m to make bricks, andcarry them to the walls ; the other was a hi ewer•f Delft, who begged his man to fetch water,and do cthef work in the brew !;ou-e: and thethird by a gardner, to help him to work in anddress a hop garden. The first two accepted theiroffers thankfully; but the last, the Englishman,told his Master in plain terms, his friends had■ever brought him up togsther hops ; and there¬fore desired rather to be hanged.15Others having had great estates left unto the*>y their friends, and who never knew the pai»and care in getting of them, liaveas one said truly,;alloped through them in a very short time:hese are such as Solomon speaketh of, “ whaaaving riches, have no hearts, or rather the wit,0 use them.” These men are most aptly cora->ared to the willow-tree. because the palms ofhe willow-tree are no sooner ripe, but blown a-vay with the wind.1 I remember to have heard of a wealthy citizcaT London, in Queen Elizabeth's time, who leftis son a great sum of money, who imagined hehould never be able to spend it; would usuallylake ducks and drakes in the Thames withshil-ngs, as boys were wont to do with tile sheardsInd oyster shells: and in the end came to suchxlreme want, that he was under the necessity oforrowingsixpence, having many times more shoeshan feet, and sometimes more feet than shoes, ashe beggar said in the comedy.‘i; Money also there are, who having been bora> a good estate, have quite undone themselves byi iiarriage, and that after a twofold manner : first: y matching themselves without advice of parent*i r friends, in heat of youth, unto proud, foolish,ind light women, that one would better live oaI small allowance at a distance, than have a full;ieal at home where he is always trouble wither never ceasing tongue. And this is the reasoap many husbands travel beyond seas ; or at home:to from town to town, or from tavern to taverr,E® look for company ! and in a word, to spend anysning, to live any where, save at home in theniwn houses, where they are sure to hear nothingat the brawlings of a scolding woman.16DIRECTIONSHow persons map supply themselves wit\Money at all times.N :OW, if you would ask me, what course hishou!d take, or what he should do that wantetllwoney ? Lot him first bethink himself to wbslprofession or trade he hath been foi merly broughlup to. If of the inferior middle sort of tradeslmen or artificers, (for those are chiefly concernedin this unhappiness) let such,First, be very diligent and industrious in theirespective trades and callings, and not be slothfuin business.Secondly. Let him take heed of idleness, ant®f all vain and idle companions, that loiter up amdown and squander away their time as if it vefof no value, though it is the most precious thin(in the world, there being-notliing in the workthat is a more certain indication of ruin and destruction, than the wasting and misimproving c•ur time. \nd yet this is tlone by those thawould take it ill to be charged therewith : as fbinstance. How many are there that spend a gresdeal of their time in Coffee-houses and WeeklyCluhs ! where, tho’ but little money is pretenderto be spent, yet a great deal of piecious time iisquandered away and lost! which many that ire1quent these places never think of! but measunthem expences only by what goes out ot theiipockets, not considering what they might bargained in that time by their labour, and what‘.lie.1,might have saved by keeping in their shops.17fiLet us therefore reckon, when a triidesmaH gi>e«o the Coffee-house or Ale-house to take amora-g-draught, (let it be of wliat liquor he wills),hiie he is spending his twopence smoaking an^ialking, he loses at least an hour of his time :i.nd in the evening he goes to his two-penny club,l|nd there tarries from six till ten. Now, it musti jie a very poor trade, if in that time he could notJiave earned a shilling. And if he keeps servants,fie want of his presence at home may have oe-irati med his losing as much as he could havegair edkimself. iso that his spending a groat morningi.jnd x-ight, (tSiat is two-pence each time) cannoti e accounted less than the loss of 2s. 8d. a-day,finch comes to 14s. a-week, and 3b\. I()s. a-year,( Vhich sum, if saved, until his oldest son ai rivedi t 21. years of age, and so fit for marriage and t»jjet up in trade, would have amounted to 7601 10s.hey who would live so as not to want money,ust avoid all such idle and needless expenses,|nd unnecessary loss ot time.But if the person complaining of the want ofeney, has been brought up to no trade, then let;m consider to what kind of life his genius oraturai disposition does most of all incline Inro.lie cannot find employment in his own countrystilt his genius (which can scarcely besupposeda country such as Great Britain, w here arts andienco are carried to the greatest pet fection, andhere a person of any genius, or of little gepius,ay find employment) let him seek his fortuneL'road. He may a; once satisfy his curiosity,rpply his necessity ,and serve his country, byoing into the army or ns vy, and thereby havtra opportunity of doing brave actions in the scr¬ee of his country abroad, and there he mayt18•eme to pdvaritags both his fortune and familyIf he inclines not the employment of the army inavy, he may find something to suit him in otPlantations in the Eist and West Indies, and iAmerica, in ail which places many a man hatdone well, who could do nothing at home. Theyou shall find great contentment toyour conscienclo be in action, which God commands us all to bThe t'mes in no age was so hard, as to derindustry and ingenuity a livelyhood: aYid, inword, rather to be in misery for want of mono;let a man undertake any vocation and labour, acNever think the labour coarseThat puts a penny in his purse.The want of money is a great torment, ar«flen puts men on unlawful shifts to procure itherefore let every one who has got money, 1wreful to know its worth , for since we are boiwe must live, and it is hard to live upon a snu•hare of it. And to conclude this chapter, let ikealways careful toget. and cautious in spendir■soney ; and when you have it. know how to ketand how to use it, when there is occasioilor money in your pocket is the best companioAs one observed, ‘'be a good husband, and thowilt soon get a penny to spend a penny to len.and a penny for thy friend.” For f would ha'•one to be such misers as to gain money onlykeep, and not make use of it; for to such, momif the greatest curse, of which the world has beifamished with many instances.Gain a penny, spend a penny,(Says the frugal man ;)But if you spend before you gain,you’ll ne’er be merry then.19DIRECTIONS//oro to turn a Penny to advantage.MY first direction shall be that all such personaas design to thrive irr the world, should alwaystake care not to spend a penny idly ; for that theythereby may purchase a square yard (or 3 feet)of good land. This, how improbable soever itmay seem, is an undoubted truth, as will appearby the following demonstration.1. Sixteen feet and a half, make one rood.2. r'orty such roods in length (that is600 feet)end four such roods in breadth, (that is 66 feet)makes an acre of land.3. Now. multiply 660 feet, (the length of aaacre) by 66 feet, (the breadth of an acre) and theproduct will be 43:560 square leet, and so manyan acre cotains.4. I.and that will let at 20s an acre, per annum,an acre of which, if sold as 20 years purchase,way be bought for 20!, that is for 4800 pence.5. Now, if you divide 43 560, (the number ofpence for which an acre may be purchased,) thequotions or product thereof is 9, and 360 remain¬ing : which shews that every penny does purchasenine square feet (that is, three feet long, and threebroad) of such land, ana somewhat above, whichis what was to be demonstrated ; and consequent¬ly it follows, taat for every two shillings, you maypurchase 216squarefeet; that is a piece of ground%>f 18 feet long, and 12 feet broad, which isenough tobuild a little house upon, or make a littlegarden, which being well planted, the frmt there-sooi'' way trery year make a man blush, to think heshould spend the smallest sum unnecessarily, byimmoderate eating, drinking, cloathing, family•r pocket expences. which perhaps impairs hishealth besides, and exposes him to the icproaehand redicule of his neighbours, when he has s«fitir a way to turn tho-e idle-spent pence to hisown advantaged But if a man hss hot a mind t«purchase land with his penny, he may turn itseveral other ways to still greater advantage, intYade and commerce.But there is more required in the art of thrivingand turning' the penny to advantage, than mostmen imagine: it is true, diligence is good, andindustry is good, and frugality is good; but aman can never thrive as lie should do withouthe looks higher than all this. I remember I havesomewhere read the following verses :Spare not, nor spend too much, be this thy care,ISpare but to spend, and only spend to spare ;Who spends too much, may want, and so cornpla'*,But he spends best, that spares to spend again,Plow, sow, and reap, and then to Heaven call,That its kind blessing may on your labour fall;fis vain to look for pretit from what’s giv’n,Bnless you get the blessed dew from heav’n.And indeed, unless we are under the influeneeaof a blessing from heaven, all our own endeavours,how strenuous soever they may be, will neverwake us thrive: for as .the royal Plalmist ex¬cellently observes, " Except the Lord build thehouse they labour in vain that build it. Exceptthe Lord keep the city, the watchman walketh butf*» vain.” So it is in this case, except the Lordgive a blessing, our endeavours will be in vain.£1ANew Method for ordering Expences.TJl T is very h,ml for an open and easy natureto keep within the compass of his fortune ; eitherrhameto be observed behind others, or else a yain-Ijlorious itching to out do them, leaks away till(the vessel be low or empty ; so that nothing in-rolves a man in more unhappiness than a heedies*ett:ng go, in an imprudence of mispending; for it■liters the very frame and temper of the mind.When wants come, he that was profuse before,easily grows rapacious. It is extreme unhappinesslo be thus composed of extremes, to be impatientboth in pienty and want. And therefore let everyman, for the Getter ordering of his expences,«bservc the following rules.1. See that your comings in be more than yourlayings out; for unless this be minded, a man maywaste away his substance to nothing insensibly.If your income exceed your txpences but twentyshillings a-year, you are in a thriving condition;but if on the contrary your expences exceed yourincome, you are in the highway to ruin.2; Keep an exact accouut of what you lay out,mid wnat you receive; for without this', you willbe always in the dart.3. Balance your account at least once everyiquarter' and then you will the better see how-ithe case stands with you, and so may the bettertiretrench matters, if you find you have exceeded.4. In laying out your money, trust not to your(servants: for in small matters they may deceivei you, and you be never the wiser : end many suchiswail matters may amount to a great sum.225. In aU your affairs of moment, look after yourfeus iness yourself if you wish them to succeed.6. Be always sparing, that you may still-havewherewithal to spend.7. Never spend presently, in hopes of gainingfor the future: wise merchants, while their goodsare at sea, do not increase their expences on land,bttt fearing the worst, secure what they have al¬ready in their hands.8. Never buy but with ready-money ; and buywhere,you find thingscheap and good rather thanfor friendship or acquaintance sake ; for they per¬haps may take it unkind, if you will not let themeheat you. For you may get experience, if noth¬ing else by going from one shop to another.9. Be ready to give a good advice to all, butbe security for none. And if a friend or relationpress you to it, refuse it, and rathei, if you can,lend him money upon another’s bond.10. Let not thy table exceed the fourth part•f thy revenue. And let thy provisions be solid,,and not far fetched ; fullti of substance than art.Be wisely frugal in thy preparation, and freely,cheerful in thy entertainment. Too much is va-city, and enough is a feast.11. If thou wouldst in a little time arrive toworldly preferment, be very industrious in thycalling, be what it will; that which is by sparingsaved, may be with diligence improved. It hathbeen observed, that it is not less gainful to navi¬gate in a small vessel, which makes quick and fre¬quent returns, that in that which returns, butseldom, though deeply laden. Therefore Solo¬mon directs the sluggard to go to the bee and ant;which infirm creatures plainly shew, how muckthe assiduity ot industrious labour can effect.A few serious and necessary Advices fall those that desire to thrive in the world,and have the blessing oj God with it.1. ASSURE yourself there can be no honestthriving without the fear of GOD. and the exer¬cise of a good conscience: and therefore, aboveall things, disengage j ourself from that businessand those diversions that stand in conpetition withthat godly fear, that ought to be a guide to youin all your actions.2. A void the company of all vicious persons,whatsoever, as much as you can; for no vice isalone, and all are infectious : Especially avoid allsuch persons as are scandalous, either for profes-i gion or manners, for you run his hazard, andespouse his disreputation; and such as swearers,prophane blasphemers, scoffers, &c.3. Be sure not to keep company with drunkardsand busy bodies, and all such as are apt to talki much to iittle purpose; for no man can be pro¬vident of his time, that is not prudent in theii choice of his company.4'. Beware of idleness, aud till up all the emptyspaces of your time in useful employments: forvice creeps in, when the soul is unemployed, and.'I the body at ease,5. Avoid the filthy sin of whoredom, whichJ brings the curse of GOD upon men’s bodies and:i estates; For a whorish woman is a deep ditch,is and he that is abhorred of the Lord, shall fall; therein.”6. Pray to GOD when you begin any work,I that, by his help, you may bring it to a good* conclusion.PROVERBSTo he observed by all who wish to thrive.WHEN riches increase, the body dccreaseth ;For men j»ro,f old before they grow rich.Strand, and be free, but do not waste.Who more than he is worth doth spend,Will be a beggar at the end.Whoso spendeth more than he should.Shall not have to spei'd when he would.The table robs more than the thief.Trade is the mother of money.When the tree is fallen, every man gocth to it ‘with his hatchet. Or, when the man’s dowa,down with him.For want of a nad the shoe is lost,For want of a shoe the horse is lost,For want of a horse the rider is lost.To him that is willing, ways are not wanting.They must hunger in frost, that will not workin heat.fro not to the physician on every disorder,Nor to the Lawer on every quarrel,Nor to the tavern always when dry.Patience, time, and money, accommodateall things,Prayer and pi ovinder hinders no journey.Fear nothing but sin.F/iV/S.