cheap tracts,. alculated to promote the Interests of Reli¬gion, Virtue, and Humanity.No. XIII.   ■ • i,'~ . " ■ —ANAffecting1 HISTORYOF ANnn-keeperINNORMANDY:together withA Tragical Story,S'n the unhappy Confequences of an im¬moderate Attachment to Riches.DUNBAR:j'nted by G-Mutek atwl^ofc Shop may be had a variety cfjPamphkts,Ballads, Children’s Books, Piaures, C.Uechums, £*!•WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,HISTORY op an INN-KEEPER, iOr; Reafon ! ever be my friend^ my guide !And from thy dilates never let me Jlray :Do thou o'er every Sentiment prefide.And be my Pilot thro* life's thorny ivay !Some dream that they can fdence •when they willThe Storm of pajfion, and fay, “Peace, be stiil j”But “Thus far and no farther j” when addrefs'dTo the wild wave, or wilder human breaf,Implies authority that never can.That never ought to be the lot of man,WHEN a man narrowly ferutinizes intohis own heart, how little fatisfadtionarifes from fuch an infpection ! His good- inefs many times extends no further than tolanguid and impotent refolutions; whencehe hath the mortification to lee, that hisvirtue is daily perilhing in its bio fib ms;while vice deeply roots itfelf in the corrup¬tion of his nature, derives additional firengthfrom the luxuriance of the foil, and is hourlymaking bold advances to maturity. At the |lame time that prepofieflions and prejudices |enthral his mind, they likewife enervate theTHEINNORMANDY.C 3 )wers of exertion, and thereby preclude to3 (the captive all profpeft of enlargement. Paf-lons are clamorous, temptations are numer¬ous, and reafon too frequently is of infuf-i.ncient force to filence the former, and toepel the latter. Thus his bread refemblesi chaos, where difcord, darknefs, and con-ufion maintain their empire, and triumpho':over the boafted authority of man. Difap-ointed, and difpleafed with the picture,vhich his own bolom exhibits of himfelf, henaturally led to enquire into the caufe ofhis involuntary deformity Some writersnave endeavoured to folve all difficulties by(firming, that the creation of fuch a ftrangeijtompound as man, wasnecelTary, to preferveduefcale and gradation of Beings. Otherspilcribe all out errors and defeats to the fall,ound thereoy impute to the fir ft parents ofdnankind, the moral evil difcoverable in the: pccies. But without entering upon a ciif-■Ij :uffion of thcfe fubjeds, I would obferver,.hat the human mind, in its present ftaar; ;ivears the appearance of an ancient fuperbr frudure, which hath formerly been injured,- i md defaced by hostile fury. There still re-c uain strong marks of its primitive grandeur,iilthougli leveral of its noblest apartmentsrare so miserably maimed and negleded,a :hat they are now become, as it were, an^tier it age for the dragons of the wilder nefs.It is a common observation, that neitherjhe best of men are exempt from faults and< 4 )follies, nor the worst altogether destitute ofworth and virtue. But sometimes there issuch a mixture of good and bad qualities,so great a contrariety both of sentiment andconduct in the same individual; that whenwe ourselves fit upon the trial of such acharad:erK we are even constrained to suf-pend our sentence; and our judgement isnot only embarraffed by the intersperfion of iilighter crimes; but it is also frequently |perplexed and obstructed in its decifionswhen actions of the blackest turpitude havebeen perpetrated by men, whose general be¬haviour hath correfponded with the ftricteftrules of virtue and benevolence. Hiftory,facred and profane, furnifhes us with fink¬ing inftances of the brighteft excellencies,and the fouleff blemifhes, concentered inthe fame perfon. Oftentimes that predom¬inant paflion, which conftitutes the veryheroifm of goodnefs, fhall aggravate everyfeature of vice, if once it be inlifted underthe banner of wickednefs. That naturalwarmth of St. Peter’s temper, which render¬ed his zeal for his injured mailer fo con-fpicuous, betrayed him into the mofl horridoaths and execrations. But there is no ne*ceflity of a recourfe to fuch diflant examples,we (hall find fufficient fcope for reflectionupon topics of this nature amidft the occur¬rences of our own times. Nor will thefubfequent dory be a bad comment upon( 5 )i the hints already advanced ; or too faint aniilluftration of the deplorable confequences,■ which now and then follow upon an unlimit-iled indulgence even of the bed; of humanipaffions.An innkeeper at a town in Normandv::had eight children. His wife, whom he: loved with the utmoft tendernefs, died of afever, after fourteen years cohabitation. He'-j was inconfolablc for a while ; but at lengthHhe emerged from his grief, and transferredIjall his affedion to the fruits of his marriage-rbed. The income arifing from the proheskof his bufinefs, was an incompetent mainte-nance for his family. Hence feveral of his::Tons and daughters, when they had attainedijlto a proper age, quitted their father’s houfe,I;and entered into fervitude. So ftrong was:the innholder’s attachment to his children,I that he regarded their departure in the lighto of a temporary banifhment. However, therei yet remained at home his eldeft and his• youngest fon, who pradtiied every filial duty-3 to fupply the deficiency of his abfent com-^o forts. Prior to this period commenced theIlast war between France and Great Britain :In the progrefs whereof the French com¬pelled into the fervice a multitude of youngfellows, who were averfe to the profedioriof arms. It unhappily fell out, that the inn¬keeper’s youngest boy, a lad about fixteenyears of age, was feized upon by a recruit-( 6 )ing party, and hurried into Flanders. Thedistrefs of the poor father at this melancholyincident, would probably have been'infup-portable, if his brother, who was the mi¬nister of the parifib, had not ufed every argu¬ment, which reafon anc^ religion fuggested,to alleviate the pangs of the bereaved parent.But although a courfe of time had afiuagedthe feverity of his iufFerings, yet his forrowswere occallonally quickened by the piteoustales the youth tranfmitted to him, of themany hardfhips he underwent abroad ; by ,repeated applications of this neceffitous fonfor money ; and by the inability of the fatherto gratify the prefling requests of a ftarvingchild.After fome years were elapfed, there rodean officer into the yard of the inn ; whoalighting from his horfe, called aloud forthe landlord. The mafter of the hcufe ob- <ferVing, that his guefl by his apparel was aman of rank, approached him with deference. ,At which time the officer, fixing his eyes 1lledfaftly upon his hofl, acquainted him,that he was juft then arrived from Tournay,and had been defired to inform him of hisfon’s health. The landlord’s fond heartbounded at the mention of a perfon fo ex¬ceedingly dear to him, and he was urgent |with the gentleman to perpetuate his con-verfation upon this engaging theme. Butthe foldier replied, that he was neceffitatedC 7 )to pay a few vifits in the town, and wouldtake a more favourable opportunity to fatisfy;very enquiry of his hoft.About ten o’clock at night the gentlemanreturned to his inn, and told the landlord,that he had invited leveral friends to dinnerthe next day. Wherefore he directed anentiful and elegant entertainment to beirovidcd. At this protrafled flay of his;ueft the innholder fecretly rejoiced, hopinghereby to hear many particulars about his»oy in the Netherlands. The officer com-|{plaining ol fatigue, and defiring to be con-lucted to his bedchamber, the mem of thec houfe catched up a candle, and lighted himto his apartment. No fooner were they bothaltered, but the gentleman drew a purfe of?;old from his pocket, and gave it to theand,lord, wdth a charge to take care of fopofit. Then wifhing him aand reminding him of theI valuable a cjjgood night.norrow'R engagements, he fliut the door.and haftened into bed.The following day the Abbe called uponhis brother, and with great complacency inhis countenance, enquired after the Officer’shealth. The innkeeper told him, that theOfficer was well, and had fet out early inthe morning on his return to the army. Itis impoffible, rejoined the Abbe with a fmile.That very Officer will moft affuredly dinewith you to day, and give you fuch a hiftoryC 3 )of your fon, as muft be produ&ive to you ,of a degree of joy, very little inferior to 11rapture. The landlord was aftonifhad at :thefe myfterious words, and afked his brother,if he was formerly acquainted with thegentleman. To which the minifter made *anfv/er in the affirmative. Who is he ? faid ythe innkeeper with great emotion. The t:whole fecret, returned the Abbe, (ball berevealed to you at dinner. Hereupon theinnholder appeared extremely agitated, and ifperemptorily aflerted the departure of his 1gueft at break of day. Indeed it cannot be :lb, replied the Prieft. There Js a happinefs ■in referve for you, my dear brother, which {my heart ftruggles to difclofe. But the ob- *ligations I am under of lecrecy, will notpermit me to unfold this interefting riddle.The mailer of the inn, whofe face abund¬antly befpoke the perturbation of his breaft,flared upon the minifter with a peculiarwildnefs in his eyes, and feemed entirelydeprived of all power of utterance. Ah !my brother, cried the Abbe, this is too, toomuch. 1 cannot any longer keep you inthis painful ftateof fufpence. I beleech youto recoiled the features of the military gentle¬man. Pray tell me, if you cannot trace outthe lineaments of your darling fon, uuderthe badge of diftinguiftied meyit. Thiseciair-eiflement had nearly proved fatal to thelandlord, who turned very pale, trembled( 9 )ra every joint, and immediately funk down(in a Iwoon. The aged churchman blamedtiimfelf for the temerity of his proceedings,nnd wilhed a thoufand times, that he hadfupprefied this affe&ing part of his narrative.But fince he could not retradfc his story, heiJcheriflted hopes, that a fuller explanation of,2very circumstance mightdeliver his brother’sumind from this distraction of contendingipaffions. Wherefore, when the unhappy mani;was recovered from his fits, the minifteri enderly intreated him to compofe the.iiurbulency of jiis thoughts; and further in-nformcd him, that his fon, by a late fignaliklifplay of valour, had been rewarded withran hundred louis d’ores and a lieutenancy.i'That the dear y.^th, noticing the officiousHaffiduity ofhis father, prefently inferred fromWhence his parent’s ignorance of him ; nowisdifguiled, as it were, by his improved ftature,rand the fuperiority ofhis attire. That pleaf-Oed with this uncommon adventure, he hadqapprized his friends thereof, and appointedfhem to dine with him, that they mighttare the joys of the family upon his dif-overy of himfelf. To all which the Abbe;iiubjoined, that this worthy and amiable childi had brought his indigent father a purfe of(money, to obviate his prefent neceffities, andto prevent future anxieties.Scarce had the uncle mentioned this fuper-ttlative inftance of filial goodnefs, before thec 10 )innkeeper dropped to the,ground, writhedwith frightful convulfions, while the eccle-fiaflic looked with inconceivable furprizeupon the fervants, who flood fpeechlefsround their leemingly dying mafler. Amidftthe e Icenes of confuf.on, the maid recol-ledtcd, that there was a vial of hartfhorndrops in a clofet pertaining to the bed¬chamber, where the officer had lain the pre¬ceding night. As (he was running up flairsfor the medicine, fhe was purfued by theminifler, who endeavoured to arrefl her inher flight, that he might learn from her, ifit was poffible, the true caufe of thefe flrangeand formidable occurrences.Wifli thoughts more diflurbed and em¬broiled than the flormy deep, he enteredthechartiber; where, finding that his ftrengthand fpirits were hadily departing from him,he threw himielf upon a couch, which wasaccidentally at hand. After he had con¬tinued a few minutes in this fainting flate, ;he opened his eyes, and thought that he fav/fomething like an human form lying underthe bed. The figure powerfully attracted .his fight for a while. But when the Abbehad gazed long enough to afeertain the re¬ality of the objedt, he flatted up from hisrecumbent poflure, and collecting all hisfhatttred powers into one effort, eagerlydiagged the body from its concealment,'iohis inexpreffible conflernation, horror1.( II )and anguifh, the mangled corps proved tobe the remains of the military ftranger.The pious clergyman, penetrated throughhis very foul at this (hocking fpe£tacle, fetch¬ed a deep groan, and inflantly fell dead uponhis murdered nephew.By this time the inn-holder was reftoredfrom thofe dreadful contorfions, which hadthreatnedhis immediate diflblution. Railinghimfelfout of the chair, in which his domef-ticks had feated him, he defired to betakenbefore a magiftr^te, to whom he confelfedevery particular of this bloody tragedy. Itfeemed that the elded fon was the fird whopr^pofed the dedruftion of the officer. Thefather heard the overture with detedation ;but the young man having bound himfelfin a joint bond with his father for the pay¬ment of a large fum of money, and hourlyexpecding his parent and himfelf to be?thrown into a jail, urged the neceffity ofmaking the foldierY purfe their own pro¬perty, as the only expedient to fecure them-felves from the miferies of confinement.The father warmly remondrated againd thepurfuit of fuch impious meafures; and like-wife obferved, that the guilt thereof wouldbe highly inflamed by the extraordinaryconfidence which his gued had repofed iahim. The fon intimated that he thought itcruel ufage to be made lubjed to the penal¬ties of a bond, for which he had received( 12 )no pecuniary confideration, and which hehad entered into upon no other motive thanthe prefervation of his father from the re-ientments of his creditors. The parent be¬wailed their complicated misfortunes ; butperfifted in fuffering the utmofi: extremities,rather than embrue their hands in blood.When the young? fellow noticed, that hisarguments made no impreflion, he then art¬fully enumerated the fore afflidlions whichhis youngeft brother endured in Flandersfrom cold, penury, and toil. Nor did he failto infinuate, that now an occafion prelenteditfelf of fuccouring the wretched youth, whowas daily furrounded with famine, dileafe,and death. The pitiable father burft intoa torrent of tears, and haftily. faid, Whateverwe are to do, let us do it immediately.Thus the lacerated heart, although it hadrefolutely maintained its ground againft thepiercing follicitarions of poverty, the ap-preaching terrors of a prifon, and the impor¬tunate clamours of an undone child, never-thelels fell a fudden facrifice to the inordin¬ate tranfports of parental affe&ion.A TRAGICAL STORY.On the unhappy Confequences of an immoderateAttachment to Riches.IV xiThe northern blqft that chilling blrxsAdoixin the mountain's fno-wy fide.The tendril bites, and blights the rofetAnd ujithers all the valties pride.More fatal bites not through the grove.The winter's Jharp and canker'd tooth)Than doth the blight of hopele/s love.The tender bud of hoplefs youth.RICHES, when poflelTed by the bene¬volent man, are, perhaps, one of thegreateft of human bleffings. To fupply thewants of the forlorn widow and fatherlefs,and thofe, who from affluence, by fome un-foreleen misfortune, are reduced to miferyand want, are actions that even angels woulddelight to perform; and of fuch infiniteimportance are they to the perfons who prac-tife them, that we are afTured, from the verybeft authority, they will, in a particularmanner, be taken notice of in that tremen-duous day of accounts, by Him “ who is thento wind up the grand (economy of nature,and open jhe folemn Icene.”That money, however, is the efficient caufeof an innumerable train of human mifenes.C 14. )is a truth that need only be named. Whatbut the introdu&ion of luxury, the infepar- jable concomitant of riches, by the greatCyrus himfelf, rendered his hardy followerseffeminate, and in the fequel proved thefubverfion of his cxtenhve empire ? Greece,the mother of heroes, while directed by the'inffitutes of the immortal Solon and Lycurgus,was always invincible; but no fooner were?they laid afide, and an infatiable third foi?the Perfian gold engroffed the minds of her!leaders, than her afpiring ftruggles for liberty ;became languid, and Ihe fell an eafy preyito the conqueror. Rome, the once miftrels ofthe world, likewife, in her turn, after ex¬tending her conquefts to the “gorgeous eaft,”introduced into her commonwealth the bane¬ful effe&s of riches, which, in like manner,! 1proved fatal to her. Happy were thefe re¬publics when an Ariftides and a Fabricius ;were among their public dire&ors!Since powerful empires and states have :thus fallen victims to the direful effects ofriches, it naturally follows that private in¬dividuals must alfo have had their fhare ofmisrortunes from the likecaufe. I fhall not,however, trouble your readers with any imore common-place hints from the historicpage, but fhall prefent you with a storywhich happened in private life, in which, iin a striking manner, is exhibited the fatal ;effects of an immoderate attachment to this1root of all evil.( ^ )RosaHa was the only daughter of a gentle-Iman in the north countrv, pofleffed of feverai.hundreds per annum. She had, in an eminentdegree, a moft beautiful “ fet of features,”attended with thofe namelefs graces of perfonwhich infenfibly attradl the attention of the| tnofl; fuperficial obferver; to which wasi added thegreatefl good-nature ; an uncom-;mon affability; an humane and feeling heart,and an accomplifhed underftanding. In fine,to ium up her character in a few words, (liei was, in facl, what the daughter of Cato wasIin defeription, poifeftI Of inward greatnefs, unaffeRed vvifdom,And fanRity of manners. Addison.It is, however, necelfary to obferve, thatfhe was unlucky in a father. He was a man.in whofe breaft avarice had gained confider-able ground, and whofe heart was, in a greatmeafure, callous to the tender feelings of pa¬ternal affedlion : as it is reported of him,that he would often, when I peaking on thefubjedt of marriage, ridicule that famousfaying of Themiftocles, namely, ‘‘that hewould much rather marry his daughter toa man of merit, though poor, than to onewho was rich without it,” by obferving, thatif he had his daughter married to a man offortune, he did not care whether he hadmerit or not.c 16 )Among the many who paid their addref-fes to this very accomplifhcd young lady,was Philander, a gentleman who, to anagreeable appearance, added the more en-gaging qualifications of the mind. He,though perhaps inferior in point of fortuneto almoft every one of her admirers, gainedher intire affection, and they agreed by mu¬tual promifes, to be one another’s for life.A father frequently is not the firft perfonwho is acquainted with fuch attachmentsin his family. This was alfo the cafe withRofara's; her other relations were the per-fons who firft; gave him this piece of infor¬mation, endeavouring, at the fame time, asmuch as pofhble, to exaggerate every cir-cumftance to the prejudice of Philander,and infifting, in the moft carneft manner,upon his doing every thing in his powerto put a flop to their further connexions.This piece of intelligence ftartled him great¬ly ; and when we confider his own difpofi-tion, as noticed above, it is no hard matterto conceive how much he was irritated inconiequencq of it.Rofara was informed of what had hap¬pened between her father and friends, be¬fore her next interview with Philander. Sheaccordingly, with an aching heart, told himthe circumftance, adding, that Ihe under-ftood her father was in a terrible rage, andwas determined to ftop any further conhec-( *7 )ition between them, but that he had not as;iyet mentioned it to her though Hie everyday txpedled it. “It fhall not howeveri(continued lhe\ be in thepower of any of myfriends to catife me marry any perfon butfuch as 1 chufe myielf; neither fhall alitheir united efforts conftrain me to love youlefs than I do at prefent.” Philander con¬jured her to abide by thefe relolutions, and. departed.A very few days after, as Rofara was oneevening fitting alone in her room, her fa-I ther entered it, $nd having taken two orI three turns, broke filence to the following< purport:—“ 1 had a confiderable while fincei| begun to iulped', that there was more be-1 twixt you and Philander than what I waswell aware of, but of this I am now crediblyi informed by lome of your friends, who haveyour imerefl much at heart; and who tell■ me, that to luch a length are matters now: carried, that you and he are determined, asI foon as poffible, to be united in wedlock.[ This, howevtr, I forbid, on pain of incur-| ring my higheft refentment. How much: do you think fuch an union would degrade[ you > He is a perfon entirely beneath yourI ilation, and confequently unworthy of yourImalleit notice, when a matrimonial affaircomes under confideration ! Befides, I hbpeyou will remember that Superbo is at youriervice ; and, as he is a gcjitlemap of ftation.( i8 )I expert you are to comply with his defires:.” :—*'• My dear father (replied fhetrembling), iI never did intend to marry Philander with¬out giving you previous information ; and pfince you have now mentioned fuch an affair, i;I ingenuoufly confefs that 1 love him above ievery other perfon ; and my affedtion, by «its long continuance, is too deeply rooted ito be eradicated ; befides, as I live in a land 3of liberty, you will furely not deny me the r,privilege of the irrationals, namely, thefreedom of choice, as I am now arrived at ;>a time of life capable of judging formyfelf: ;But. above all, I beg you will confider thatI have engaged myfelf, by the ftrongeft pro-mi!es, to be his for life ; and I have heard itfaid, “that a young man and woman v;ho-have come under free, voluntary, mutualpromifes, whether verbal or written, are ac¬tually married, even though they fhouldnever come together, and the defaulter, ifever married, lives in adultery. Surely youwould not then be guilty of making me theperpetrator of luch a deteflable crime ?”—Talk not (anfwered he with fome warmth)of promifes, or any fuch fantaiiic abfurdities;I tell you nothing is in the fmallefl degreebinding, till once the parties have joinedhands before the parfon : Promdes! a prettydory truly ! a parcel of chimerical notionsyou have got into your brain. Such fellowsas Philander, who are pofiefled of a large( >9 )ihare of rhetorical abilities, can very eafilytiperfuade a raw unexperienced girl, intirelyDnacquainted with the world, fuch as youire, to believe any thing.”—“ But, mv dearather (replied fne, ready to fink on thechair), it is really abfolutely impoffible that4 can enjoy the fmalleft happinefs in beingynited to any other perfon, even allowingkhere fnould be, as you fay, no weight inibromifes ; as no fuch thing, you are veryienfible, can actually exiil, except the aifec-i|ion be reciprocal; and although Philander’s:ilfortune be but Imall, yet, when added toimine, they will, together, make one lo veryijconfiderable, as will very well enable us toflive comfortably, as neither of us, 1 believe,ilhas any amb tion to live Iplcndidly. I can-j1 not, indeed, fpeak from experience : butpurely “the great fecret of being happy iftthe married Hate conlifts not fo much inbeing affluent as in loving each other we'l;in that cafe ail things mull conform them-felves to our defnes. This muft produce a1 fweetnefs which will abforb all the vexationsi of life. In fuch a fituation the heart Bf thei one is in that of the other; they think andadl even in concert, and are often on thepoint of faying the fame thing. NoexiflenceI is truly fo precious as that of two marriedperfons who love each other; and I fhouldrather chule to lofe my life this day than—’*“Where, in the name of wonder (lays he.f 20 )interrupting her, and quite in a rage), have ■.you gleaned up all this romantic fluff ? Not ;one word, I fay, more of that imaginary hap- -pinefs vou talk of: it is wealth alone that *conftitutes what truly dele; ves the name of 11happinefs ; and, when that is a wanting, I twould not give a pin for what you call reci- :procai affection: Superbo’s fortune, together 11with your own, will place you in an inde¬pendent ftation, and therein confifts 'what :lin reality is happinels ! I am therefore de- Jtermined to have you united to him with fall poflible difpatch ; fo not one word more 1in oppofitisn to the mandates of your father!”So faving, he went out of the room in a Clpaffion, leaving the amiable Rofara in a :ftate of the utmoft perplexity.She would have at that time .given theworld to have feen Philander; but as hehappened, in confequence of fome materialbulinefs, to be from home, that was impof-fible ; befides, it was intirely out of herpower to fend any perfon in the family to 1inform him of what had pafled, provided hehad been at home; fo ftridly were her ac¬tions then obferved.In the mean time, fo firmly did her fatheradhere to what hetcld her, that hedifpatch-ed a meflenger, who brought Superbo anda notary, who drew up in form the mar-riage-contrad, without ever fo much as con-fulting the difconfolate Rofara. The newsi ( 21 }bf this had juft reached Philander’s dwellingiby the time of his return. He was fhocked,at the relation, and was on the point of con-itriving fome method of feeing Rofara (herifather having previoufly found means toforbid him his houfe), in order to enquirelif luch a thing was done with her concur-. rence. This determination was, however,fuppreffed, by reflefting that her father wasa man of conlummate prudence, and whoperformed all his actions with the utmoftdeliberation, fo that he naturally inferred! this affair would be the refult of her own:: coincidence. It was, indeed, a matter of theutmofl difficulty to bring himfelf to think,that Rofara would fo fuddenly alter her re-jiifolution ; but when he refledfed upon theeffect of advice, paternal affection, the fick-Hlenefs of the fcx, the difparity of his fortuneiiwhcn compared with Superbo’s, he reallyin imagined every thing was done with the3 conient of all parties. Such reflections as: thefe confirmed his opinion, and he finallyj refolved not to fee her again, as he naturally1 fuppofed fuch an interview could not fail tot add to his prefent load of grief, and, at the1 fame time, give him an opportunity of up-I braiding her with her breach of fidelity, a; circumflance he then did not chufe to do.The lafl rupture between Great BritainIand France was then newly commenced ;and Philander having had a previous incli-i( 22 )nation to the army, an opportunity at thai vvery time offered itfelf, as fome troops were ir;juft about to embark for America. Hfi ttherefore, in order partly to wear off the re¬membrance of his deareft Rofara, who hf :then concluded, was given up to another; j;and partly to gratify his own inclination, uentered himfelf a volunteer in one of thefccorps. About two days after he embarked.!;leaving the fettling and management of hit!;affairs in the hands of a friend, who was tc.fucceed to his eftate, provided he fhould ■!:never return.His departure being fo very fudden, Ro*fara had not the fmalleft notice of it until .he was gone, foon after which, by his orders,:{he received»a letter fpecifying his reafons;for fo fudden a departure. The fituation ;the was then in is much eafier to conceive >■than deferibe : But what made it ftill more .deplorable was, the extreme cruelty of her tfather and friends, who ftill inhumanly in-lifted on her marrying Superbo, who was«:alfo fo brutal as obtrude his folicitations withtheirs. She was, however, inflexible, and *told them in plain terms, that fince Phil- .ander u'as prevented from enjoying her,none elfe ever fhould. She moreover com¬forted herfelf, that fo foon as an opportunityoffered of writing to him, (he would thenclear up the whole affair, by letting him( 23 )ijLnow that every thing was carried on con¬trary to her inclination, and that he ftill,libove every other perton, was clear to her.Soon after his arrival, the troops withi vhich he came along, joined the expedition){ Gen. Braddock againft Fort du Queine,tn affair well known to many of your rea-lliers. Us melancholy event is alio, I darehay, recent in fome ofiheir memories. Inhis unfortunate a&ion Philander took thedirection of the battalion in which he ferved,Ifter its commanding officer was killed, andfter having, with it, performed deeds worthy>f a fecond Leonidas, he (hared the fameate with the general, inch as did manyither brave officers who alfo fell that day.—fhe effects of his valour fo exafperatedSome of the Indians wjjo ferved along withhe French in that engagement, that afterjllaving mfulted his dead body, they addedi hat piece of cruelty peculiar to thcmlelves,namely fcalping. His corpfe was, however,ijifterwards difeovered by an intimate com¬panion of his at the general burying of theilain, by means of a miniature picture ofILofara fet in gold, which he had alwaysmrn iufpended by a ribband round his neck,nd which had accidentally efcaped theigilance of the favages. This, with fomerifles, was returned to his friend.1 he fate of the amiable Rofara, in con-[ equence of thefe melancholy news, is aC 24 )fcene too big with horror to dwell upon.After the firft tranfports of her grief, whichwas exceffive, were abated, her words be¬came incoherent, her actions extravagant,and the whole of her deportment gaveevident fign? of infanity. It was thereforethought necefiary to watch h£r, in order taprevent her from committing any ad ofiviolence upon herfelf. Thefe precautions!unluckily proved fruitlefs, as (lie was onemorning found ftrangled in her bed.—Thusi!‘fell two innocent and worthy perfons, vic¬tims to the infatiable defires of avarice, fin-cerely lamented by all who had the hap-pinefs of knowing them.—From their un¬happy fate take this advice :—“ Ye Parents who from nature ftrayAnd the great ties offacial life betray;X Ne’er with your children aft a tyrant's part;’Tis yours to Guipe, not Violate the heart.”Thomson1fri’itcd by G Miiltr 1 Qunbat.