THEWitty and EntertainingEXPLOITSOFCEOXGE BUGHft.NAN'jWHO WAS COMMONLY CALLEDThe KING’S FOOL,<<2* VS>» v<^> 'Oj O*In Six; Purts, Complete.•<P-> ’-cP-> <-d>, <?-> <>» '-<£>» 'O* 'O*TO WHICH 13 ADDED,Several Witty and Entertaining JtJls*STIRLING:PRINTED AND SOLD BY c. RANDALL.-*«, d c c c; y j i.:t -; ' THEJ . .Wiily and EntertainingEXPLOITS0 FGEORGE BUCHANAN. PART I MR GEORGE BUCHAN AN" was a Seotfmanborn,and though of mean par nidge, made great progrefsin learning.— As for hj$under(tandjnp;and ready wit,he esceeced all men then alive in that age, tint ever propo-fed queftions to him —-lie was fervant or teacher to KingJames VI. as his private councelior, but publicly he actedas his fool.It happened one day, that a yming airy nobleman wentinto the king’s garden to pull a flower fora young lady hefancied : George followed at a diltanee ; lo when the youngman f und a flo.ver »o his plealure, he .would not pull ithimfelf, but to find it again, without further feurching hecovered it with his hat, . nd w nt away for his f veet heartno fooner was he gone, but ur* go s Gtorge lifts his hat,,pulls the fl >wer, th. n cafes birr.Elf on tiie fpot and coveuatit with the hat again, and way h'- goes In comes theyoung man, leading his fwe t-hear to pull t r fl wer below\the hat; but as ioon as belated th“ ha’’, andf eing what,was below, he lot ked like a fool The lady fli. s i ■» paflion;|,ofF Ihe goes, and never ■'vapid c..un^ a nee vim any mere.,1The young- man beirig iadly vexed at tl.is. ff,on cone to«him by George, fent Id n a ch Henge to light him, ppo’nting;• day and piece where they were tojmeet Be ng t ;'tight owhorfe back, George'gcts m old ttiffhorfe,ar.d for bar • ffin ucovers him abort vvidi (down bladders "-itit a little fmal!flone in each, without either fword or fpear, aw.y to theifield he goes, where the duel w-as appointed: fo when Georgefaw his enemy coming again!! him, all in glitteri ig ai mourpanred with fword and Ipear. he rode up to him with ad theifpeed his horfe cquld cany him, and his horfe, as is faidpbemg all covered over wiih bladders, the fmall !tones iffthem, made fuch a terrible Boife, that the geutiemaa’a line:g^ding would not ftanA the battle, but ran afcray, and'threwhis matter to the ground, which caufed all the fpeftatoii tolaiigh, and fay, th-* gentleman wa* more fool than Jeorge.The gentleman being fo enraged at this feebtid aifront, hewould fight with Gectfge on foot j but hi) friends perfuadedhim that it would be no honour for him to fight and kill theking’s fool, and far lefs to be killed by the fool, fo theyi were advifed both to agre: ; but the gentleman would try’,another t xp'oit with George, for to have it faid he * as hill1 the clcverelt man, to hold him a jumping bout publicly the: next day thereafter. W::h all mv heart, fays George andi we will end in and about where we begin ; they not know¬ing hi. meaning in this T.e pla"e aad hour being let whe<e: they wire to meet next morning, George in the > ight ciuf»! ed a deep pit to Ije mide, rnd t1 e eirtb o’ it carried aw<.y,!l afterwards filled up witti dung fro n a privy, covered itk over with a green turf, fo tha. it might not be known by thek other ground ; fo, accordhig to ; roniife, they both m .t m|: the morning againlt the appointed time: now George beingI: the cldcft man, and oy th m counted the greateit fool, tiier, young mm permitted him .ojurrp first, whicii heaccordi .gto'order-, p.rformed, and julped within a foot of the p.acef, where the ground was fallifitd : the you. g n an f.- ing this,r madt h.s performance afterwards with great air and all liiar: might, fo that he jumped a fool over George’s, b-t to uist: oxter* among clean dung, whereat the who e multitude of^ fpetUtors, cried out with huzzas and laugot- r Now, fays1. George, 1 told you we would end in and about where we4i began, and that is in chan dirt.; On a tun- after this, the King and his court was going-ii inty the country, and they would have George to ride beforet them in toe tool’sdrefs, whereunto he feemed unwilling, but.! it was the king’s plea hire. George was mount; u upont; an old harfe, a pair of old • iven, boots, with t ie heels hangingr! dowm, a palmer coat pacchej over with pictures of divera'i: kinds. George role before them in this posture, whicha. cauied great laughb-r and divcvfion uatil the;' came to anin inn, where thay lighted \o dine ; and in the time taey'Vere. at dinner George went into the stables, and witit a knife cut• all tl e horfes cliaftsc not fore, but fo as they might bleed.Now, as fooa as dinner wxs over, and they mouutta on then:oi horfts again, George riding before them as ufnal, in his55 palmar coat end old bsats, they began to make their game( 4 )of him s then George turned about fuddenly, an d clapping»is hands with loud laughter ; ' the king alked him, whatmade him laugh fo ? Laugh, fays George, how can I butlaugh, when hosfes cannot hold their peace ? O my fnvercign,fays he, don’t you fee how your horfes have rent si! theirchafts laughing at my oh' boots ; then every man looking athis horfes mouth, they were all in a rag<- against George,the king caufed him to bedifmoimted diredlly, j*nd charged .him never to let him fee his face on Englifh ground. NowGeorge knowing that nothing could reconcile the king atthis time, he came away to ricot and, and caufed make hima pair of great boots, and put a quanhy ef Scottiih earth in.each of them, and away he goes for England to fe - the kingonce more. He hearing the king and his court w s to jrtfsthrough a country village, George placed himfelf up in anold window, and fe:s up his bare ar(V to the king and biscourt as they palfed by. The king was greatly ao azed tafee fuch an unufual honour done to him, was curious toknow the p-rformer ; fo he called unto him, afking him Hocome down, and finding it to be George, Sir, fays the king,did not I charge you never to let me fee your face again?True, my fovereign, fays George, for widen caufi, I iet youfee my arfe. Ay but fays the king, you was never to comeon Englifh ground again Neither I did, fays George, pul-ling ofi his boots before the king, faying, Behold, my So¬vereign,’tis all Scots ground 1 ftand upen.—The king andkis court being fo di 'erted with this merry joke, George wasadmitted again into th$ king’s favour.After this, there arofe a debate betwixt the king and thequeen about votes in the parliament; as the king had two•votes, the queen would have one, and would needs be aparliaracnter, or no peace without the preferment; this mat¬ter was committed to George hy tire king, fo it was agreedwith the parliamenUrn that the queen fliould be admittedsnto parliament for a day, and accordingly fire carae, andwas received with aH the honour and congratulations, as wagdue, and becoming her high ftation ; but before any matter•f confequence was brought to the hoa'd, George featedhimftlfhard by the queen’s feat, apd all being filent, hciofeup very quickly, and lifted one of his legs, and then gave agreat fart, which fit the whole company a laughing, whereatthe queen was greatly offended, trying, Go take the rogueand hang him, to which George anfwcred, a hue psdia-1< 5 )irentrr irdeed, to Ians; a man for a (Inli-fa infirmity, andthat’s a fart. 1 he Queen being fo enraged at this affronti put pr her fiift propoial to patiiament, went off in apaflionand never would countenance them any more. But yet toi be revenged on George, (he would never give the Kingreft till he delivered up George into her hand-, that he m ght(be punifhed at her pleafure : which the king accordinglyCo. siander to be done, knowing that George would refcuchjmf lf by fome intrigue or other. No fo. ner was he deli¬vered into her hand*, to be at her difpofal, but fhe am' her■Mari'S pronounced his doom, which is as follows. Ashe.had aJT/otitcd the Queen among fo great an,equipage, who(ought to be honoured in chief, and above all worn;n in tlieination, that he fhould be ftoned to death by the hands of|i women. Now his time being come that he \va . to die, ae-icording to thsir appointment, he was taken into a park,(where a great number of women were waiting upon him,withlithtir aprons full of ftones, to fall upon him, and to put iii.mIjfcO death, according to the queen’s appointment.Hi* SBEKCH to his Executioners,j Here is a-feina!e bag of ftones, •To kill a .■ tan for rumple groans,I’m clean ot rapine, blood, a'd thefts,Cculd I convert my fac ts to rifts iSince 1, the firft, for farting die,pofe up the place from wttencc they fly;T’commit my crime, I think ye’ll fcarce,If once j'.u do cork up your arfe.• \nd now fmee vronien ftones do carry,IWen need not in the world tarry,Judge if fr.ch women be chaftc complete,With forty ones between their feet.| But fince it’s lo, ye will come on,> The greateft v, bore throw the fi, ft ftonr.’ W1 icn he ended with tlrefe word , The greatefi whorerfhould throw the firll flone, every one put it to*anotherto call: the firtt Hone ; but knowing they would attain ti.ePharacter of a w.hore for fo doing, they all reiuicb, tih si e.’ing hour was pall, and he took a prottft again It tasm,Ijandby that means gained his life.1 After this he was admitted to the queen's favour and pre-ufence, attending the court a« formerly. About, this tiir ; .henFrenclc kii'g not kfiowing how to pick a quarrel with Git attiEritain, fent a letter to the king, defining it to be read be-f fore the Parliameutjj and the writing was as fellows : Willi( 6 )I come ? Will I come ? Will I come ?-*—•—This letter being tri.rd before the king and ics coiivtirrs, they all concluded Ethat the French king meant to invade England, therefore !they wrote him a letter on pmpoiV olcndkimagain upbraid- ling him with the breach of peace, and putting i im in mi id I!of the lad trea y. This htter being rend over before the IKing and his Nobles, they ail cond-efeended that it ihould 1be lent as an ar.fwer, but George fmiling an ! {linking iiiu •(he .d cried cut, Mmy men, many minds.Who knows wha he ’efig is ?Then they alked Geofgey ■ hathe thought the French king >mrai't by fuch a letter' to which he gt:i Vertd, I fuppofe hewants, an invitation to come over to dinner, and then goback in a friendly manner, but you are going to charge hint 1v i h a breach oi peace, be fore he has given any llgnalof of-fonr.e or war: his letter is indeed dark and myitical, but Ifend him an anfwer according to his queftion. Now Georgebemg.ordered to write the anfwer, it was, And ye com:,And ye corn.-. And ye con.e ..This beingfent to the FrenchK'r.g, iie admired it bcvxned exprellion, faying, It wa aaantwt rmore valiant aitd daring than he expected ; fo theenmity he intended was thereby turned into love.About this time it happened that a malignant party inScotland iV‘ t v.p a great fpokcfoian to the King ..id Parlia-nrert, for the {educing of'the Church ; G orge tiearmg ofbis coming, went away and met biti oa the bridge, and thefalutation that "he gave, him was, the cutting off nis head,and tbrawi 'ig it over the bridge, then ran to the king withall his miga", falling down before him, pleaded moil Lear- ;fly fra par-Jco, oiwhhoutit he was a dead man : the kingmob ferj-.iufly afktd ium what he had done now; to which 'lie anlwcred, He had only«hfowa the Scots bilhop’s hato-ivjr the fridge, which made the king to laugh, to hear himaik pal'd oh for fuch a in; ill fault ; but he had no fooner gottlie pardon fealrd by the king’s hand, than he faid, indeedtry Sovereign, I threw his hat over the-bridge but his headwas in it. Ge- rdy, Georcy, fays the King, thou wilt nevergive ovtr till thou art hangedAfter this, a nobleman in England agreed with the kinghow to put a trick upon Georg r, to try his manly courage.In fending him to a certain houfe for a bag of money. On{>iis wsy home through St J mts’s Park, they caui’ed a Itur-dy follow to go and fop the v>zy upon tun, su4'tske the'Eey : he being’ armed with fwr ord and pidol, came up brif!c«ly, and attacked George with thcfe tvc ia You Sir, deli¬ver what money you have, or you area dead man : to whichGeorge anfvverei, *yr, I have money indeed, but ’ti not myown, and i am forry to give it ; nevgrtheiefs lince I am notarmed as you are to ejccbangj blows f.*r it, you (hall haveit ; but pray, do me tlie favour as to fire your pidcl throughthe flap of,my cloak, that my owners may fee 1 have beenindanger nt my life before lloft the money, which heaccorj-sngly performed No former had he-firel :t, than Georgei w eps cut his hanger from below his cloak, and nvitii one' ftroke cut off his right hand, wiierein lie held his fword, fothat both his fvvord and tus hand fell to the ground; but:Ge<’rte lifted his hand, and carried it to the King. Noi fo oner did he come before him nut-ilvey afic d him, fayingi Well George, did sou ue any body to t’oubie you b t :ei way ? No, faid he, but on • fellow, who was going to takethe money from mi*; but I made him give me his hand lie1 would not do the like -again. You fays the fellow’smaltcr ? Yes, I did. fays Gecttge, let work bear Wi’neis,:lthrowing down the fellows Jiand s>e the table before<• hem.Now this latl exploit of Gorge’s cm fed many of tiiel Englifh tc hate him, -and among the rtlta young nobiecnanfell a icckir^ v/ith George,in fayi- g, he would be as famousa chaxpi >n for Scot’aaU as S v Wil; am Wallace was : Ay,ay, fays George, William Wallace was a br ve man in histime ’1’rue, mdeei, fays the other, but when he ctime toiLondon, ■tic. did him all • ann-.-r of ju si c, and for n*ino»r:of the ricots, we have his eflig.'. in our fhite ho tiles to thisttvery d„y And do you not know the reafon of that, fays*:Gt rge ? No, J don't, fays he : Well, I’ll tell you, faysMGeorgp, he was fn h a lekrir to the Jir.gliihmer when ivewas alive, that a ligr.t of him yet .makes tlyem beihite them-•fvlves. The i’.sgtiih to k this anfwer as a great affront, and•fort1 with cauuxl Wallace’s-piiture to be taken oat of thatIplace. •'H!' ’ } *PART II.happened epe pight to be in company with &I Silhop, and lo they fell to arguiaeatbg aneat religionwliercin George got the better of him, and the Biftiop foundhimlelfoe 'A'as wrong; then one of the company addreffedhimfe f to Geo in thtfe words tho i Scot, faid he, oughtn »t to have left cue country ; for what! fays Georges iie-caufe thou haft brought ail the knowledge of if along withthee . i, no, fays George, the Ihepherds in Scotland willar /ument with any Bifhop in England, ?nd exceed themmighty tar in knowledge The Englilh clergy took this asa great affront, and fevers! nobl ttnen aifirmed it to be as !George had faid. Ahigars were laid thereon and three of)the Euglilh clergy were chofen and fent away to Scotland to .diflute it with the thepherds, accompanied with feveral gen¬tlemen, who weie to bear witnefs of what they heard p tfsbetween them Now George knowing what way they were tgone* took another road, and came into the Scots boundsbefore them, made up his acquaintance with a Ihepherd at;the border, whofe paftare lay hard by the way fade, where:the clergymen were to pafs ; and here George mounted him*.'felf in a ihepherd’a drefs, and when he faw the clergymen*coming, he conveyed his fleck to the road fide, where Irefell a hnging a latin fong ; and fo to begin the quarrel, one!:of them afktd him, in French, What o’clock is was ? Tofwhich he aivfwered in Hebrew, It is directly about the tinieiof the day is yeiterday at this tin e Another alked him;in Greek, What countrymean he was ? To which he anfwtr*'ed in Flemilh, If you knew that you would be as wife aftItiyltlf. The third a Iked him in Dutch, Where was youeducate ? to which he anfwered in Earfe, herding my iheep:’between this and Lochaber. This they begged him to ex-,plain in Englilh, which he accordingly did. Now, faid theyone to another, we need not go any farther : What, fay’|George, are you butchers? I’ll fell you a few fheep. 14this they made no anfiver, but went away Ihamrfudy, fwearing that the Scots had gone through all the nations in thdworld to learn their language, or the devil had taught then'it, for we have no fliare hi re but fliame. jAfter that George had ended the difpute with the EngJifbclergymen, he ilnpt off bis ihephead’s drefs, and up through jEngland with all the haite imaginable, fo that arrived a;the place from whence they fet out, thren days before themand went every day alking if they were come, fo that himight not be' fufpeCled. Now upon their arrival, allthadwere concern'd in the matter, and many more, to hear whadnr.vs from tfie Scvts (hepHctcI?, came crowding, to knowivliat was done. No foonir had the thr-e ^ehtlemen dechr-“d what was pil between the clef 'yman and the flimhvrds,whom theyfou.'il'on the Scots border, but the old biih >pmade ani’wer. and think yoa, faid he; that a /hephetd couldmf.ver theft- q • lions r It has been none elfe bat. ilie devil,for the Scots irtimfl’ers themfelvtS ermlU fiot do it; they areb it ignorant if fuCh matt rs ; a parcel of beardlefs Boys.Then George th u'ht it was time t« take fpfcelh ir hand.Well, tny lord < iiii j). fiys' lie. you call them a parcel ofignorant b.‘-:rdljfs buy’s, ychi liave a gfeat long beard yohr-fell, my lord 'iOKn, and if the grace of God were mea’ur-lied by beards, vou biih >ps and the goats wli have it ail, andfjthat will be ca t- aVerie to feripuire Wh t, fiysthe Ipihbp,I-are you a Sc ,.t ? Yt a, fays G otge, I am a' Scot: Well, faysthe bifhoii, aitd what is the difference Bitten a Scot andJa fot i’ Nothing at prdent, fays George, bu* the breadth ofIthetable, there bein' a table betwixt the t i.hnp an.l George;;fo the biiliop went off in a higV pa.nia, while the wholeimultitude wereliki--ti fp it their jawa with laughter.About fhistirbe ttrere was au act'of pailiaaieiit fit the be-nefit of murderers, that any p'erfoh if they committed imir-1 dcr, if they forfeited 500 merks, which veat uaair rhe camecf Km Boot, becauf fo muck of this fine v/eht'to the mur¬dered perfon’s i.va c.t relation, as the piihi 6f blood, themurderer got a remit. Now Georg - knowb’g this to becontrary to Main,’ l.»ws, whs very much grieved to fee mgnypag.ons fealed with the king’s hand for murder, si.mo It oneevery week ; it being f ufaal for the kingto fubferibe themthat he would notread them, nor inquire what fney were :for which caufe George writes a right to the craw .. andfeiit it to the king to be fubfenb d, which he actuallyi dki, and never looking what it was, r tui'-’e I it to’George?10 { oner had he received it, but he go s to the king, andtold dm it was not time for him now to be fit .rig there ;Wiieieat thekir-gl gr ally amazed, ffarte i up, ihen Georgein a great haffe f ts hrmfelf down in the king's chair, forth¬with declaring bimfelt nh g, fayfrigpYou w ho was k-pg multbe my fo. l, !or I am now :h; wife.t man The king at thisv/as greatly qfibhdtd, until George ihewed him hir. fml andliibi'T'ption-; but from that day-fortlf the Linr knew whethe fhbfcHbedi ’ 'B( 1C )The next pardon that came to be fealed by the Icing, waV'to a gen len an who had lilled two men before, and had :gotten pardons for them br money This being the third,t'-re Icing looked very filent in looking orer the petition;;George (landing by. afleed the king what he was going to'feal now i to which he anfvvered. It was a remit for a man ;iwho hid killed three men at fundry times, I gave him two :remits before. O ! fays George he has killed but one man ;and who killed the other two ? fiys the king ; you did, faysGeorge, for if you had given him juftice when he killed thefirfl, he had killed no more. When the king heard thef«words he threw down the pen, and declared that fuch anaft to five a murderer, (hould be null ever after.One dsy after this, George having no money, he goes a*Way and gets a pick and fpade, and then falls a digging at atornc- of the king’s palace, which the king perceiving frombis window, calls what he was wanting‘there ? are you go¬ing to andemnine my houfe, and make it fall ? No, my fo-vercign, laid he, but it is verily reported that there is plentyof money about this houfe, and where can it be ? 1 cannot :find it ; for it is not within the houfe to do me fervice, then Ifurely it .mud be below it- O George, that is a crave afterthe new fafl ion : What money you want, I’ll-order it foryou. Then my fovereign, I’ll dig no more.One time after this George being in the county, he came Ito an inn where he alighted to refrefh himfelf and his horfe; Jthe innkeeper charged him double price for every thing hecalled for ; George never grumbled at this, but gave him all ;Lis demands, and away he goes on his journey ; and wherehe quarteree the night following,"he was ufed after the fameEianner, if not worfe. Now George having little farther togo, he returned the next day, and came that night to theinn where he refrelhed himlelf the day before , fo when healighted, the boy alked him, Sir, what (hall I give yourLorfe ? What you will, boy, fays George No fooner hadfie gone into his room, but the drawer aflced him, What willy^u have to drink, Sir ? What you will, fays George. Themailer of the inn came into his room befer*. fupper, aflcinghim, What will you have for fupper. Sir ? What you will,landlord, fays George Now after fupper being ended, anda hearty bowl to put sll over, George went to bed, and gotBp pretty early in the morning, he called for the boy tomake randy hit korfc w all haft?; for he dtfigned t«nlm bb4 go direAly: fb in a ftiort time he went into the fta*ole where the boy *afr calling for 1 is horfe, and mountingnira with all the fpeed he could, giving the h«y a piece ofilnoney, faying here, my boy, tins is for your .alting care>f my horf , 1 bare paid for all I called for in the houfe andW he goes. Now about mid day, be alighled again at an,linn to refrefhhimfclfand hit horfe, and there he chanced to‘>e in compmy with his other landlord, where he aas thejjn'ght before, and charged him with the double reckoning,0 George, addreffed himfclf to him as follows : Sir, fayslij-eorge, I do believe I was in your houfe yelUrnight. Oires, Sir, 1 nrnd of you pretty well ; and where was you laftflight: Lali night ! fays George, I was in one of the fmcitHnnS; and the civile!! landlord I ever had in my life ; theyNirouglit all things I ftood in rieed of unto me without cal¬ling for it, and when I came effthis morning, ihey chargedme nothing, and I paid nothing but fixptnee to the boy for:ilreffing my horfe lllood and wounds, faid the old fellow,i hen I’ll go there this night Ay, fays George do tudlinind this, when they afk you what will you have for your-S elf and your horfe, anfwer nothing, but what you w:ll, fir.n^ow George fmiled with'u himfelf, to think, how he hid got; he ofte extortioner to take amends of the other, bo the''lorefaid ir-ikeeper rode that night until many people of tb«nnn were gone to bed before he came in No funner was heflighted trom his hor£c, thin the boy alkedhim, What (hallgive to your horfe, mafttr ? to which he anfwered, Whatjcoh will, boy. The boy hearing this, he runs away (leav-;iug him and las horfe to Hand at the doer) up Hairs to hitSmifter’g loom, crying, Mailer. Miller, What you will itr'-orae again ! O the royue,'cries he, where is he? I’ll canesuim, I'll w'hat ymu will him by and by ; and t ) him he runs: v.th his cane, licks and kicks him, until he is fcarce a dei o mount his horfe and would give him no entertainmentbhere ; which caufcd him to ride tire whole length-of a colds vinter night, after he had got 1 is bones all beat and bruifed,io the one purfued i he other as a murderer ; and his defence3'ras, tint he was a cheat and a fcorner of his houfe, untilhe truth was found out.1 About this time the French king fent and demanded from: he king of England three men of different qualities; thesoue was to be a mighty ftrong man, the other a very wife: nan, aiuj the tkird a great f«*l: fo that he might have aua?f 12 )in all Francetp Bi;tcli,thcni in tbejr ftation'!. Sn accordingly’there were t‘,vo men chofen, the one a {Lror.g n a?, and rhe<*ther a wrfc man, but George was to;acb.a a fool: never*"tbelcfs, he' was the teacher of the other two. And or theinway to France, George afkedt}:- tlrang man, what will you janlwer the French ting, if he afles if you be a ftrp; g man,?I’ll fay I am^ Then, hays Geo-ge, he’ll geta [iconger manthar yen, who may till yd.u and affront your cc.i.'jtrr- Whatfhal! I fay then ? (aid the firong m?.n V\rb', fays Georreitell him you amftrong enough untried. Then.fays George;to the wife.map, and what v ill y u fay to the kin;, 'henhe a lie 3 if you are a wife man ? I'll t.eil.h.itn I am, and.anfwethim all the (queftio ’s T know ' Very wel', fays Georgevrhat it he af: you wlvit ion do not know, then you 11 iffront your country,a:id Se.ln».ke(i upon asngr^ter.fo.o) t' aime What (hall I an/vrer then f fuiil the \vilc man : Why.fays George#*ell him, he is only a wile map (hat can t;k<care ot hinffelfand I .Or*'! cojve m,after yqy., and ..take c,r,of you all together No foci ter -.ytre they c: me to the k.ng’,pala'-e, than the.kmg fer.t .ortbemt-ttrr On-.m The.ftr.o^|man being firft called for. he^qrr; tV; tin Jiing.pflced hm.^.re you ajlroug man,.fi ? to whiclt he anfevtcd, O king.I am ffrorg enoiiyh untried; very good, A id .the king A:ttr him entered tfle.wjfe m-p, to'wjtotn the king put tin<|t)e{lion, fr, a.-e you a wife m-.n ? to v-hich he anlwertd-He is only a wife man .that can take cere of hi r.feM ; verj;good ftvs the king 'With that George puflied up the doo-and jn he goes with loud l.-lighter, p-ffes dreitly in th:king’s face, which blinded both bis. ryes, and . the whpj*court in amaze. ' Now, pew, fnvs the.kuig, it is trueenouglthe wife man fays, f,.,rif 1 led taken care cf my.felf,.! net*not bqen pifftd upon by the Eugliih foci. O up, fa\ s G<orgfools always drive to make fools of oti ers, but Wjfp mt-imake fools of th»mfelves. The king imagim d as much <■ |he was made the r a 31 c l i fool, arjd charged, thrm forthw t;|to go home, for lit wanie'd no more ,of i: rglmd s Itrengfh jwiidom, o’-follyOne night after thij.a Highland oroyer chanced to hava drinking b ui't with an Englilh captain of a (hip, and at iaithe tngli;1i capt;n : and h:m csvne to be vary h.arty evetheir cup ; fo they called in,their fervpnts to have a (hare o;their liquors; the droverV fervant looked like a wild mtr^oing without breeche$, dockings or. dioys^mot fo much^a bonnet on bisliead, nita a long peeled -rung in Jus ’hand.The captain afkcd him how lon£ it was iince he can h dbin ? it isa.bem two years fincc I haul-.d him outof tl.e leawith a net, and afterwards he ran to the.mcimfi:’'i;, whereI catchsd h'm with a pack of hounds. Tlie cajK2:n bclir veftit was fo > bu , fays he, I htv afervant the !v.j t 'i nnier infhirope. O biltj ir.ys the dryer, my ferv nt Wid 1 w;m Iitrnto death. No, fays the captain. I’ll lay zoo uintas <*n it.Tien fays the drover, I fold it one-for one, ijtd ftaiices 4tdir..eily the day being appointed ahen the trial was to bemade. Now, the drovetywhen he cnrrK-'tftiiirhf. it, thinki rg1or* whjat; aba^ghio he had mar t , did not hsow what to d<>,V’lowing war*' w-dl i.is ftnurit-oeni dDlk^iyi-t.in He hen-itigof iiet’tgt being m row-n,' >• i.b-si/.my * -w-at a ^oc-d'lt end toa Sco. fman ; he Went i.nt Jhim, arid Job ■ hr . , the wholeGory, au-i tliJt he .would 1 c enti -tiy .broke, and duffi iV verreturn hon e to his own countvy, be ;was: lure to- Ipfe it.Now George called the itrov* t ufld his fe vant aiidc, md- drsfiructed them ht vv! to <hriirg him o!f with iafety, and gaintoo ; k> accordingly they met at the ‘piece appointed y theCaptaiiib fertant ripped directly, and threw ■liifnfell intotl]e Ga, taking a tuVn until the highlander was ready, forthe drover took feme ti ne o put his fervant in order : afterhe was ilvipped, his mailer took his plaid, and rolled akebbocli ol cheefe, a big loaf, and a bottle of gir in it, andtins he hound on his {boulders; giving-him a direiMion, totell bis wi:e ai d children he was well; to be fare he return¬ed with am; nfwer againtt that day fe’ennight. Ho as he wentinto thefr.*, he.looked back to his rnatfer, and calls out tolum ’or Ins claysaore. And what waits he for now ? Uf,he who .was to £*tm along with aiai He-watits his fwordjfays his mafler t hhfword ! fays the fellow,..what is iitj 16do with a fword ? V/.h y, fays his mafler, if he meets with aWin fa or itcnllrous b .afi, it is to defend bis life ; I kn owhe’iU avc to fight his way thrangk the north fea?, e’er he g'pto Lcchaber.. Then,-cries the ether, I’ll fwim ndue withhim it he t. lies his fwnrd Ay, but, fays his matter, youfitall- or lofcthe wager ; take you anot her fword with you.No,/ays the fallow, I n . ver did’fwim with a fword, norany man t!fe;.ihai ever i fa w or heard of; I knew not butthat wild like man will kill me in the deep water ; I would. net for the whole world venture myfelf with him and a fword.The captain facing his forvant afraid to vent are, or if he did,f H . > .ke was iurcn^ver to fee l.im again alive ; therefore, he cfe-fcred an agreement with the drover, who at f.rft feemcd un¬willing ; but t'ie captain put it in Ins will fo the droverquit him for an hunched guineas. This he came to throughGeorge's advice.PART III.^FTER this, ."George bring in Cornwall about fomebulmcfs, where he chanced to run fnort of money, andnot knowing what to d , being acquainted with none inthat country, snd knowing his landlord to be loyal to thegovernment, and a great favourite to the king his mafter ;takes a piece of Imck, and b"ays it to a fmdl powder mixedwith a little chalk, fo that it might feem in colour likeatfeniek which is ilrpng poifun : then tying it up in papers,writing on this direction, the llrongdt peifon for the king ;and on another paper, the flower poifon for the queen.Out he goes on purpbfe, and leaves the papers lying on %table, where he knew they would be looking at them ; thelandlord perceived the dire&ion ; fo in comes George in agreat halie, and calls out, O landlord, did you fee two fmallbundles I have loll, and I know not what I fliall de>, for itwas my main bufinefsto take them to .London.—-O ! yoqmurdering rogue ! cnes the landlord, PH have you hangedfor what you intend. George at thismade off, ami was go¬ing to fly for it. hut the landlord called for afiiltanee ; fo hewas apprehended, and ma*’e prifotier of Hate. and.carriedUp to London by a troop of horfc ; when the people therebegan to know him, and tell what he was, his guard fliptaway fliamefully, and Lft him; lo George thanked them forjmeir good company and lafe convoy.There was a law made agaiull wearing fwords at balls andaiTtmbliee, in the reign of King James VI, becaufe they wereinconvenient on this occsfion ; 4iut George to be witty o»the adt provided himfclf with very long fcabbard, and gothimfvlf introduced to a ball, where the king and his courtwere prefent ; George made feveral turns through the com¬pany, making his fcabbai'd hit againft theirfhins, and fome-citnes flipt it below a Ley's farthingale ; and, in Ihort, mo.leflcd the company fo much, that he was taken notice of,at d feized by a perfon who had incurred the penalties of thead. aforesaid. I3ut Gtuge ctcufcd birefdf, telling thetn,tfiati - ( f5 >Ithfe law was only againft fwords, and as lie only wore a fcab-i bard, was no ways liable At feeing this; the king and hi»:,<ourt were convinced that the law was imperfeft, and thatf. George had more wit thon themfdves.George, one day eating himfelf at the corner of a hedge,iwas efpiedby an Englifli ’fquire, who began to mock him,i'afkiug him. Why he did not ke 'kle Hite the hens ; ButvGeorge whole wit was always ready, told him, He was’ afraid to keckle lelt he Ihouldcome and fnatcli up tlif egg.k Which rebuff made the ’fqnire wa'k off as mute as a fi(h.George was profefTor iu the College of St. A ndrews, and[:iipt out one day in his gown and flipper?; and went to his(travels through Italy, and fevernl other foreign countries ;land after feven years, re' urned with the fame drels he wei»tloflf in ; entered the college, and took poTeffion sf hi-, featrthf.e ; but the profefTor in bis room quarrelL d him for ioidoing. Ay, fays Georere, it is a very odd thing that a mnn»annot take a walk out in his flippers, but another will takequp his feat; and let the other profcflbr about bis bufmrfs.There was a bell at Dalkietb, which the popifh clergy;i«nadeufe of toextort confeluqns from the ignorant people,lin the following manner : they told the perfons wlv>m theyhfufpccfed guilty, that the hell would rive at the touch of a(iguiity perfon, but if not guilty', it would not: by thf meansKlhey generally frightened the ignorant into confeflio '. ; for’ if the bell would rive, the perfjn vvas then to be condemned(to death, but they magnified the matter fo, that tne bell wasmever put to the trial, till George did as follows: he wasfjtaken up for laying, tb..i the pope was fallible himfelf, andrcovi'd not pardon the fins of oth ers. George owned he laidTo, but would refer to the bell whither he was guilty nr not.IT he prielte, though unwilling, were obliged to comply,ilGeorge touched the bell, repeating as btfore, the Pope isifailible and cannot patdon iin, moreover added, the Popeand popi.h clergy are impoftors : and thereupon touched thebell, referring to it for the truth ; but the bell not renting,i.he priefts were difgraced as imp-;[tors, an* he was honour¬ably acq litted. and the bell was laid afideGeorge deiired a member of the Co.lege, of St Andr; w|to lend him a book; the other told him he could rot poflVilyt pare it out of his chamber, but if lie pleafed might comet here and read all the day long S ime time afrer the g-.Dti#,* feftt to George to borrow his bellow:; but he feat hiu)( 16 fwoi*,!, 1>e c'ou'd'ii jt poflibiy fpare iHpin cut of his cHna^er,but he might cone there and biovr.all Jay if he would.A fcliohVdt the gfamiiur fchhol of-it A udrtws; co'njnginto a room wh*»' lus-mailer had laS! 'ov ; a h licet of linet*Hsr, «,..r f 'r h<3 own eating, the waggifh bov ti’kss it up, midcvieh .dr.od, I pui.'^-tiie banns bc-tvveen t :ef? ehe’ri..s andmy n uihjif.rgy- know aiivj'id e tufe or ir.ipedimenr, whytheie * v,. fhould not' be joint d together, let them decian- it..t lie mafttr being in.the next room, overheat’d all that was; at d coming into the frliool, hj order': d the boy.whohad eaten his cherries to he fa** i up, or, as he Citlei it,hor'ed on anethcr hoy’s back ; but be ore he proceed d tothe uftial difetphne, he crie out r! >udy aj taedclinquenfhad done, I puMiihthe banns t>t tween the hoy’s breechesaid my tsws.; if any ne knows any ftiil.cnufe or impidinaenlvhy tl tie twj fhovilil not be joined together, let 'them d<»•elate it. George'pufijng by m toe meantime, oVcrV.cardthis proclamation ; I forbid the banns, cried he. Why to?fays ihe fchoohuaiter. Becaule the parties are not agreed,replied lie. Which an fiver fo pie ifed the made r, that theboy was fet do wn without any punifhmenfA young gent!t man that want.d to be witty on the fCrip*turesj eating feme c let ft’ foil of n itts, one nitrht at a ta¬vern, now, laid he, 1 have done is much as bampfdt), forI has • fliin my thmifands *nd ten thoufands Yet, j'ep’ied.George, who happened to be ia his comp >ny, and with theiame weapon toe, tty j tw bone of an afa : which anfwerfet:the whole comp ny a laughing to fee the young gentleman!beat with his own weapon.George beirg in company where three bifhops were prefentct dinner, they knowi g George to be a g'cat -fcholar, ai deanoiiical wit ial they’ put upon him to fay the grace, whichhe did as follows :Here a e three brethren of the coat,Who for ihy bletTings thank thee not.Curie them, Lord, and bid's tliem not. Amen.Fallon gentlemen, thecaufe is good. Thh grace madethe bkhopa 1 >ok like fools on one another, while George*laughed heartily at the confuhim they were in..n. candle-maker having had fome candles Mole, was tellingit" in a company where George was prefent, who bade laiaibe of good cheer, fo r m a fhert time, fays he, I am affuicdthey will come to light.G'orge being fcnt to Paris about foinebiifinefs,weat fromI thence to Verfailles, to fee the French king’s coitft: and(I being kmwa ♦here to feveral of the courtiers, who had beenn at the Englilh court, one of them took '■’ccaiioa to tell theji French king, that George was one of the vvittieft mea ini England ; upon which the French King dciired to fee .’ina,4: which he did ; but Gco,*g‘‘, it fee ms, was out of liuraou^ orii at Icaft fec.ii'ngly fo, he fpoke but very little to the purpofe ;»1 <fo that the French K’-ig told tlie no^le nan that co.'n'n*ndedil hi n for fuch a wit, that he looked upon him as a very dull;! fellow s but the noHl^rnan affar-d the King, that whateveri! he thought of him, peorge was a very witty and ingenousr man : whereupon taa K'ng was refolved to make further tri-II al of 1dm, and .00k aim into a great gallery, whe e there5' were abundanc* of fin pictures ; and among the red, fhew-!t -ed him the picture of CJiritt 0:1 the crofs, and alked him, ifll Ee knew who that was i but George made himfclf very igno-Irant, and anfwered, no, Whv, fays the king I’ll tell you,if you don’t know : this is the picture cf our-Saviour on the1 crofs. and that on the right hand is the Pope*'' and that oni the left is my own. Whereupon George replied, I humbly1 thank your majefly for the infor nation, for though t havei often heard that our Saviour was rurcified between twoI thieves, yet I never knev who they wcie beforeA fharper who had acquired valt riches by cheating, tohl* George, that if fuch a thing as a good n.ime was to oe pur*i chafed, he would freely give ten thoufand pounds for one.i Sir, faid George, it would certainly be the word 1110 > -y you1 ever laid out in your life. Why fo, faid the (harper ; be-1 caufe, anfwered he, you will lofe it again in Ufs than a week.One alked George, why men always made fuit to the* women, and the women never to the men ? Why, fays lie,becaufe the women are always ready for ti e men, but the! men are not al wavs re a ly for the womenGeorge went into the mint one day, when they were melt-Ing gold, one of them a(kcd George, if he would have hishat full of gold i George readily accepted, but it burnt - hebottom out of his hat, as they knew k wqnld, and for. thatboot they fooled George However, George, to be even with.' them, bought a fine large hat and caufed ap'ate of coppert to be put betwixt the hat ate the lining, an'1 returned next*• day, thej jcftinglyafeed him if.be tyould h»vc another hit-f 18 )fill! of gold ? which Vie faid he would ; they gave it red hotand now George laughed at them in his tu n, telling them,th^thisn-w haf wis a good on*, and flood hre better thanthe old one ; and f> cairied it off taonedly ; and b-ing after¬wards T-rofe^utefor to return it, he excufed himfelf. tellingthe'judge, that he too c nothing but what was given him :a m therefore he was hoacuraLiy acquitted, and the ctiier*heartily laughed ktA Scotfman bting reduced to pov. ity, made his court toGe <rge to put him in a wiy : Georgfe.told him he would,provided he would do as he dirt&e<3Jhim. There was an«ld n.ifer, an uferer and money.changer hard by : Georgeorder d the poor fellow to pretend a t errand to the mffer,and when hn came to the table where the heaps of moneylay, to thrufl his hand among t'>e gold, but to lift none, andrun off This the poor fehow did, and was chafed by the>nifcT and hi9 fervants, who ran after him into the flreet,calling flop the thief ; the poor fellow was flopt, ( as Georgehad defired him let them catch him.) George appeanxlin the mob, and went along with the poor fellow, who wascarried before a judge, where he was fearclted ; and nothingbring found upon him, he was acquitted, and the mifer finedin a Luge film for acciifhig him. Afterwards George ddireJhim to go to the fame place, and tliruil in both his hands,and lif: as much as he could and mn off. Tbit he he did,but the roifer told 1 im, he wts not fuch a fool as to followhim, f r he knew he only delire .1 to play the fool to have himfilled ag ’.in. By this means the poor fellow was enriched,and afterwards lived honeltly.George being at dinner one day, where the broth was veryhot, burnt his mouth, and at the f?me time let ing go aloud f rt; It is v ry good for you, fays George, that youmade your efeape, for 1 fliould have burnt you a ive hadyou fluidP A R T IV.A Young curate, with more perln-fs than wit or learning,being afk d in compasy, li >w he came to take it into ihis head to enter into t ie niimllry of the church-? Bcc iufe, ifail h , the Lord liath need of me That may be, replied IGeorge, w'o was prefent, for I have ofuu heard that the :i.ord had once need cl an aft..( »9 )Afttr thh, George heing fent witb the Britifh an'.hafTaf’orj into Italy, by the way of Paris ; and at they were v’cw ngthe beaud.ul flatties, and large buildinps of th. i f tticus; city : the King, and many of hi-’ nobles in company, at.theyi were walkh.g through the King’s gard, n, among the images: of the faints, they came to the ijvv.e of the vigin Mary,i who flood in a melanchob p iflure wnh the babe in her araisone of the noblemen fays to the Brk fh ambaffedor, doh’ti you think but flic lo .ks as if fhe were an ,ry i O yes, faysGeorge, (he’s angry when ike fees Engliihnieii and French¬men in frienoihip and unity one with anotner No, no, f.udthe French king, Are loves noth n y better than the rtconcili¬ation of enemies ; peace and Uiiity is her c'eligut. i'heuGeorge gets i.i below the ilotue, and look* up ; O lavsG, orge, I «.novv wh t is t!ie n aiter now, foine body hasdtiven a gr.at nail in her <»rfc, l fte the head of it lliekingout, it would vrx any living be’s a piece of wood ^t thisthe king was greatly enraged againtt George tor faying f >,for calling her a piece of v/ood ; ani n thing would fati?ty-the King, unl.Ls that George would fu! do wn and worfltipthe vi.gin Ma'y and crave me'cyvf her for the bldfphemousreproaches where with he had reproached her. Teen Georgecrirg out, O may it pleafe vour mujetty to omit it at thistime, I dare not look her in .he face, file frowns on ne with,fuch an angry countenance, this dutiful command of yom’flfruit be delayed t ll I return from Italy, and the{i I (hallfulfil your demand, in saying all dutiful refpects and wnrfhipunto her, according to what file is. 'So here the an baffa lorHood bound for George, that t.e fiiould perform this pieceof worlhip at h s rctyirn, according to the king’s pleafure.Now, during their Hay in Italy, they chanced to be in anoblerran’s houfe where they ke^ t nut tew fervants, bcc.ufeof a fpnit that did haunt the houle for the fpace of 2^0 yearsbefore that time, fo that ro fer.ant could work any kind oflabour in or about the houfe for it, except cooks, tor whatthey vulgarly called a Bronie it did all it felt, and vouldfuffer no fellow labourer to work along with it On tinnext morning, Geo ge get up pr.tty early, called fur waterto wafi> hitnfclf; then diredtly comes the Brownie wit1-- abaton of water m the one hand,and a clean cloth in the other,George perceiving him having fuck a pale ghofllv coun¬tenance, not to be an eaitWy creature, faid, of what nationjMt.tbou ? To wlijfjj it anfwered in Qalic or Earfe, a ceaa-f 20 )trymen of yotits; Sir. The ambafTador fmiled, and jokedGeorge, telling him, it was a devil, and how could it be acountryman of his ? O, fays George, I’ll fliew you the con¬trary of that, for the devil dare not ftay in ou1- country ;George having wafhed bimfel , it came again to take awaythe bafon and water ; then fays George, and how long if itfince you left your own country? about 250 year: ag , (iy«it. Then certai ly. fays he tl ou art a devil, and not aaearthly creature, To whi jh he anfv er d.I am whjt I am. and a Chrillian too.Then I am wha* I am to conjure you, (fays George.Tie taking a h ndfnj of w: ter, and thr .wing it on the oldwithered face ot it, repeating the form of the * ords ot oap-tifm in Earfe ; faying, if thou be a Chri ’’ian, thou art o'd-enougb now to be baptifed. No f one*- h d he d ne thif,jjut it went off weeping and crying. O 1 let never a rogueputtruH m his coUiitryr.'iian ifttr me Now, fiys George,I fold you the dwil dare noi ftay in my country nor) tr looka Scotfman in the face in his own. Why, fay: the Italianlord, do you imagine, that-this is the dt vii’s own country ?It appeaisfo, fays George, for he istheoldert rffidentt'r init I know ; but my lord, laid he, ami 'f it ph afr your grace,I think tne clergymen are very fcant in this country, whenyou have kept the devil fo long for a ebaplin. Ttie noble¬man unto this gave no anfwer, but exppefied his forow to-be very great for the Iwfs of f.fs Brownie.Now theambalfu or having done his bufinefsin Italy,theyreturned homeward, and on their way, thf embafiad* r >eganto queltion George how he thought to efcape Paris withoutcommittn.g rdolatry. No, no, fay* Gecrg>, I n.ver didWorship ary image, nor never ill all; but I dial! make th<mvror.hip the worft that is in my guts. No Uontr were theysniv^d in Paris, but George leaves the ambaffador, and goesdireftly to the Virgin Mary, jumps in ove’" the rail to theholy ground (as they termed it J whereon (he flood, wherefew durfl go but priefts and friars; and there he loofed hisbutcher, and made fuch a gnv.ning, eafmg himfelf, that hewas heard at a d ftance by the priefts and friars who*-werewalking nearby, and they perceiving this bamous abomina¬tion, ran upon him like a pack of hounds, and earned himbefore the cardinals and bather confeffors, where he was.allowed to fpeak for himfelf, which he did as follows : Mayitpleafe ycur moft excellent Worfhips to he ar my rtafons.( *1 )'rfcre yea prenounce mv fcntcnce to be put in execution a-irainft me It was myfortunetobep. fii' g through thiscityi ‘ew ironths ago; with the BriMfk an bhfiador, on our wayb Ita’y ; and onf day being walking in the king’s garden inuefence of the king, and many of bis nobles, who can bear1-irneL to the truth of the fame ; I being ignorant of yourraditd inaand rites ofieligion, foolifliiy offended, aeproach-; g the Vigin Mary' to her face ; and <».r fmcc ihe haslagued me with a bounCnefs in my belly, that I have voidedothing but clean hack : fo now on my return I went andmplored her to open my fundament, and (he his done Co ;I being overjoyed with the miraculous healing, in gettingin her pr’fcn- <*, I left it. as a memorial of the miraclen that place. When hearing this, they all with one ccnfent,sifted up their hands and blefled the Virgin Mary for thew< nderful miracle flie had done ; and ordered George to gosbout his bulintlo, and declare unto all what was done urtovim y tin holy Virgin, for the confirm, t ionof their religion^pa all the devout Rorru-n* came to view hie dung, and wor-hip over it; the king himfrlf kneelec down, and worfhip.pen, bowing his body ov r it, in preienct ot many people ;ind alto cauhd a tioly d. y 'o je obfcrvtd thro’ ail his domi-inions, for the mii-aculous cure.Now George be ng a lor g time ahtV t ficm Britain, hethought to go and vifi the king end his court in diCguife.:H" meeting with an old man du ing two old herbs, loadedwith coals to fell. George here makes'* bargain with theold man, hr the loan <.f 1*!. V> r- cs, his -horf.-a and coals,whip, and every t'jing fo». to cm »p’ttc him as a real coal-driver ; fo away he goes in dveft, until he came beforeIthe kirg’s pa'rce, where he began to cry with an audiblevoice, buy csals, buy cc-al ; better buy than borrow. Newthe king being in company with his youngchaplin, who wasa foundling, none knew his original, ard had been foflcredand educated out of charity by the king’s father, yet he wani-become as proud as J^ucih r, and as proud in his own conceitas the king himfelt. Now,the king knowing George's voice,tho’ he was in a coalman’s drefe, defiled the chaplain to afk■the coalman why hr called fo lend, maki< g fuch a terrih enoift. The chaplain opened the window, and with greatairs called unto him, you. Sir, Why do you cry fo for iWhy, lays George, 1 ciy far people tc come and buy rayfoals, and give me money for them j but what do ycji.cryfor ? Whaf, fir, fays t^e Veiin? prie1'}, I cry for you to fioM1your peace. I foh, f j ° George, co*e here then, P.nd cryfor me, find go fcll my «*c»>s and i \-i;hhcl<l'my peace. 8'13your co ils, lays the tu- efi, c!o you know- unto whom yoiltfpe tk ? Yes, I fo fay« George, but you do not. What areyou? fays the melt ? I am a mortal, and fo are you, faysiGeorge. Wn»t is your fat her’s name, fincevou will not :tliiyour own ? lav the prielt: You msv go alk _tha’ at my1mother, (ays Georg., for [ was not fufficient when (he got:»ie to kri.w turn. vVhat, fa vs the prie'l, doyciu not knovryoitr own trt'ier ? I know my mother, and my mother did.know my father, fa- s Geotge, and that is fufiicient, aid.more than you can fiy, perh ps The p>iifthi n kinghrwas ermi. g too ma«- hint, thought to jut him off with afcriptutsl que ion, hy afking him. If he knew who wasMelcbizi-dec’ii father ? Indeed, mader priefi, favs George,Melchtzedec’s de'fceht was not counted, • either is yours,then .who can declare your generation. The prielt at tnisanfwer, would (land the rgument no lono-er, but Lud thewindow in greitt hatte, while the king, and all who knew theprietl to be a foundling, were like to fplittheir ‘ides laug ung;lo George went offwith hiseen’s, and die prieit became m >rehumble than he was, formerly, for he thought, that everybody knew woo he was, when the coalman knew fo well.One right after this, Enghih ’fqutre, who profeffed tabe better verfed in poetry than George, lud a wa ,ei withanother gemltmar, fi re guineas aga:ntt one, that Georgecould not metre the fir if wrr.T he would fay to him in themorning, when newly awaked oat of hi. flcep ; fo the gen¬tlemen went tV night before, and told George tht itory,and bade him be on his guard, fiTr in the mornin ' they woulde< rtain y crroc, and that right early. At midnight and youwill, fi> s G *'rge, I 11 order my .trvant to let you in. So trieEng ifh ’i.qn re 1.1 up all night conferring wuh liisffriends,whether to put a high verle’ to him or mean and fmrplewo’df-, thiukuiij thrt Gfcrge would be fitting up all night,meditating or. an arlwer: lo they all agreed, that mean andli’.plc wofCs he would not be vhinking or, and have no an-fwer pfovkh d for Inch I hen away they c ine in the rrorn-ing very ^ r'y, with fiveral gentlemen in company to hearthe d vrrfion. George’s firvant opened the door accordingto his matier’s orders The Mquire entered the room liiff*ab« awakened Gicrge outof his fleep, then laid.( *3 ) , , ,Rife up you mairrian, and put on your glothe*.T'o which OsOrge anfwend,O thou haft lo t thy wad, rra , for i am none of thhf<*’he Englift ’fqti re couftfr-d li-’ was 'airly.beat, and wouldnatch him w.th no more. fir? ^.an ther ?entlem:in would■ old live g' i 'eas, that lie'would s>iv him a word or line,shat he qaiilJ not metre at thedird anl ver •, and to an I w<rit directly as four* as he had done fp.-al; ing,; but George or-jl red him firft to table the monty, and then to proceed,ivhich he did in a 1 lul^e ; and laid as follows :My,behy rumbe d, and t itn I farted,G orge gnpphig to the money, fiifwered,i. A foci and Lit, money is loon parted.Then they ail erkd out, he web fairly beat, and whatGeorge LG fuid, was realy true; but Ue never would layiti.y.more wagers coneerning poetr' .i Aftey this George got a let er fr.'m a Biftion tcl'ing him,that he w. ; coming to vifit 1dm, and take dinner with l ‘<nin his lodging : George fer.t an anfwer tl at hr. w.-uld waitupon his lotdihip at the day appotdted; but well did GeorgeKnow, it w-s not for any love he i ad unto him, ne was;:o "ing to vilit him,but to fpy f drifts; therefore lie thou/httie m uld give him fomethit g to talk about. So Georgejfent his fervant to a bookfellyi L ft; >p to buy a dozen ofKtrall pamphlets,abort a halfpi nny a gi :ce; f • K as a great’*worth of wit for a penny, the hiftory lift h ug and theiCobler, tnd iuch pitcea as thefe.; taking ail hg own booh#iaway, and puttintr the pamphlets in th.eir place, which heprefented to t .e bilhop, when he afte-d for a fi.dit of Idalibrary What, fays the bilbo ', have you no more book*but thefe ? No more, fays George,' but my blhle j juft no‘more O 1 fays the bilhop I wonder how you can citherjfpeak plain or write a perteft fen'etvee, when you have no'Other books than thefe O ! lays George, do you thick that-I am a clergy nan, to borrow other man’s fennons to beau-,itify my *cras; no, no, not I; all that I write I dite, I me-.I dilate out of my oifn brdu This c'eck concen ing lanrrcw-ling put the bilhop in a cold Iweat, yet he correealed his paf*‘ f*on 'Tlien George called to hi ■ ferruiit, if dinner wao rea-jdyyct? to which heanfwered. Come, matter, come, thepot is on the boil, get out the meal p rke: then George enm^i into the room where his iervant was, and fet the bilhopae; the oue fide of the fire, and fat down on the other hiirdtify,wMlehu fervant rtn<?e a ?reAt bowl full of milk brofe, »nfet them between the bifhop and George ; then George defired his lordihip to alk a bleffing to what they were to reccive, the bifhop did not know wtiat he meaned by a blefsi'fing, it not being ufu il for the Eng’i'h to do fo, afked atCieorge what it Was ? but George took up a great ram hot':ifpod?i, ana pur n in the biihop’s hand; faying, [’here it imydord What. fHysthe biihopfcdl you that a bleffingwe call that a fpoou O my lord, fays George, it h the bef;bleffing you can afk, if you do not come^mpty. Well, faythe bilhop, and how do you call that fealded meal ? LyGeorge, we ca". it Scots'br tfe O ! faid the Whbp, I can.not eat it. O ! fays he, the tiling we caabot eat we fup, ralord, finceyou are in a Scotfman’s hou!e, you mult paftakof a Seotfman’s victuals Then lays the bifhop. i alwaythought the Scots lived well t-ill now ; I would not beScotfman for the world O, faid George, if a Scoifman livbut twenty years, and get but nineteen years meat he cannot he badly off. V" .it, not badly off, and want a year’iviiluals ? faid the bifhop ; upon my word of honour, ifwanted one days viftua’s, I’d he fure to die the next. O■fays George, we drink water when we cannot do better, am?that puts us in remem! nnce of wealth ; for a difh of contentment is trood cheer. I'hen faid the bifhop, I’ll drinkwater too if it be good for the im mory Ay do, faid Georgeand you’ll remember me when you do fo Now, after din.ner, the bifltop took his leave of George, and defired birr,next day to come and dine with him.PAR r V. ,2^|; EXT day, George according to his promife,went to thtbifhop’s Edging ; but no fooner did the bifhop feeGeorge, than he fainted him with thefe words :Your ferVant, mnfter wife man,And yet you have no'books:.How can one have knowledge,.That no one inftruiSb ?George aufwcred,Your f rvrant, maftcr blfliop,Youi falutatiou's good :Your knowledge is in your I’brary,While other’s is in their hood.Now, after a lamp'uous dinner, the bifhop took Georyerinto his library, fhewing him a great quantity of bookswhich-George praifed very much, and amosg the reft,-r.2* >i was an oil Hebrew Bible, vh:ch George taltinEf up, a^ksd it‘ tbe biilijo >vhat b jo i it waa ? the hi hop looking at it very1l fiactreif, fa’d he eoull nor t il Why then do you keeplabjoe, you d>a’t know the name of? It may be the book< of bh :k art. N >. I d on’t think that, fai l the bifhop, butcan y au tell whit u is? Yes, f«ys George, it is the Bible, the• b:i book for a bWh Jp I know, if he had eyes to fee the in¬i' fi !e of it. So he d,fi‘ d G’orge to read a piece of it : buta whe i he dtd, hecou:d not underlland it; therefore, he de-ifir.-i ' im tJ explain it : whiqh f’nte.'ce he did as follows,11'a’ah ix. 19 For * he leaders of this people caufe them to•: err : an 1 they that are led of them, are deilroyed.” Td1 which George a ided, Thii ;s the bli idlesding the blind- So(i taking his l ave )f the bifhop hepartel with him, faying: thjfe words :G H night, hail mailer biih -p,| ) books you have grea’ [lore ;i Ye: cann >t re id the ha^ of tnem ;j Ffaen v/hi: nfe are they t ir ?Many of the gl-—g, me[i in !l.*gland defined greatly to b<:inc.noiiy w! 1 jeorge, b caufe, of ii> eonealaal w'ttf:exp •. idi.- is; fo ^eorg* happened Me night to 'o.‘ celled intb.a conpiny, where there were tlvo b lups, as alfo a pr;ell»w to wa-itedt' be hcsif.d by them O ^e of't’ie oi h >p n.lc-Jed George, why the people in ieofaiJ lid no: love biih-jops ? Beei'sfe, fays Jeorge, they are like 0 J b *,gghri, ad-.vaneed .0 je rule s »/*r btrrow net, dill iiallrn'l n< theniin things they kno w not the nfeives, orlering the n to car¬ry tones o the builders, wmen he/will not receive, and> which they tiisjnf Ives had neve’ po wer to m >ve ; tae Scots’having < 10 .viedg; of t ns, hate to fee the bilhops hav greatslordlh p» for tite r ignorahc?, and the poor 1 too trers havei little or nothing for their toil. One of tne bithops loo ting1 at George, with an angry countena i :e, anfwersd, fayinr,jY>a icot mu l be made a bifiaop youifelf, and we biflupiimad. prieds, and that will ferve well for your turn Jo,1 no, faid George, that will not do ; for if I be made a biih ip.I’ll have no broken bifhops to ferve as prieils under me, forthey are fuch bad mi tiers they’ll become ^h: worrl of all• fervants. At this the two bifhops left Hie room n a greatpaffion, leaving George and the young pried only by Lhem-lelves. Now, cow, fays George, this proves the bifhops toD’e( 26 )be but bireling*, and not true fliepberd?, pointing to tbeyoung prieit, you fee they are fled for their own fifety andthey haYC left you a lamb, before the mouth of me a fox,and who knows, but I may worry, you J Run, run, too,mailer fheep, fays George, and if you have eyes guide themtwo blind fhepberds down flairs, and over ditches, but I amafraid you’ll tumble ^11 in a ditch together. This raifedfuch an indignation in the bifhop’s breafts, that they defiredno more of George’s company or converfation.One time after this, George being in the country abouttwenty miles diftant from London, and on his way, home*■ward, same up after him a fine gilded coach, which Georgebeing informed belonged to the biihop of Canterbury, andwas going to London for his lordihip ; George adrefles him-felf to the coachman, for to hsve a paflage with him in thecoach to London ; fo he bargained with the coachman fo*fcwo dollars to carry him to the Bell inn on Loudon bridge;the one he gave him in hand, as he entered the coach door,and the other he was to give him as foon as ever he wouldfee him come out at the coach door; fo away tht coachmandrives for Lordon in all hafte ; in which time George wrote|be following MOT TO :J-lere fit> the bifhopof Canterbury,Who at the fchols difdain’d to tarry.Far better fkiit’d at games than preaching,Altho’ he lives by others teaching.Blind leaders of the blind indeed ;’ l is blind and lame who chariots reed.Six brutes wt h eyes this brute doth carry,J1 mean the bilh )p of'CafnferbuTy.My feet being lame hgave a dollar.To be drove in ftate lilee von a fcholar;For •which myftlf I d> abhor;Shame cau’d • :■ mase another door.Thefe lines Ocotye >ottere 1 upon the inlkle of the coachEnd t hen he ceme within a mile of London, took a k*ite,and cut a great hole in the backfide of the coach, where hecame out, and to make his premife good to the coachman, ,that he was to give him the ther dollar as foon as ever hefaw hLn conre out at the coach dorr The poor coachman idrove on till h5 came to theforefai ( inn, whtre he alightedand opened the door to ht out his paiTenger : but •feeing the :■coach empty, and a great hole in the hack fide of ;t, He cried•ut, he believed he had had tlr devil in his coach, and thatbe had taken away the bickfide of it with him. The people<?f the inn came all. flock about to fee what was done* and ||( *7 .)thfn perceiving tlie lines or; the infide of the coach, whichthe biihor cane and read himfelf, they concluded it tt)be done bv George, but could make nothing of it ; far theBi/hopfa{d,r.opurfuehim might make it woife-but no better,Geo'ge was invited ^ne day by a g^eat lawyer to comeand fee a new building which he had ately tiuilt of fine free-flone and marble He defined George to guefs what it wasbuilt with ; George rtifwers, Do you think that I do notknow what it is budt with ? No, you do net, fays the law¬yer ; Yes, I do, fav# George, it cannot {land long, for ma¬lice and hatred is the mc-rtar of it, and the (tones are theheads of fooliih people, polifhed over with the tongue of auafs What, fays the lawyer, do you compare me to an afs ?O ! fir, don’t you remember tliat an afs was made an advo-:ca*4. and fp»>ke agaiofi Balaam. The lawyer to this wouldjgive no anfwer, but took good night of George.Three merchants, pedlars (as they profefied to be) camei with a pack of goods, to put a trick upon a wido w woman,'who kept an inn on the highway fide ; aftc they had drunk■very hearty, they de!ire» the Woman to lay up.the packfecurely, and charged her ftri&ly, before witneff sjto deliverit to none of them, unlefs they came altogether for it a;;ainiAnd in about three weeks thereafter, two of them returnedi and defired the woman to give them the pack ; telling her,. that the other inan was gone to fuch a fair with anctherpack,; where they were all to meet, and that they were fellowti: travellers, conjunct in trade,'and how they had all a right tothe pack alike: whereupon the poor fimple Woman, notdreading any further barm, gave them the paek. So in a! few days thereafter, the other mnn comes and demand, the] pack ; the honell Woman told him plainly, that the othertwo men had been there before, and go-it away \ then he<1 began to demonftrate to the woman, what great danger (hen was in, at.d forthwith railed a procefs againft her by law,1 which cod the poor woman a vaft of money to defeend, atit the plea conti. tied more than two full years ; ana a great:i court being one day to fit upon the procefs to decide it,e which would undoubtedly have been done in favour of thepurfuer, the proof being fo clear, and the woman herfelf noth denying what the bargain was when (he got the pack to keep^r The poor Woman being in gr«ut ftraits, her purfe beingturned empty, and her attorney told her pVa'.nly, as her> sacney was doge, he couj^ bo leader k«r ; bhe Wp*I‘k“Or IWcut,( 28 )man once more plucked up herneart, crnl vrer.t to Londonto eiiiplc y a new attorney ro fpeak for her; but for want ofgold, file Could get none toundenakeit George being ina he ufe when he heard t) e poor Woman tricking a mourn¬ful complaint to one of her aitornit^ who gave her no com¬fort nor fatitfaftion ; foi w hin (be told bin , file had no mo¬ney to fpend or give in defence of it, the attorney went a-way and Aould hear no more of the woman’s grievouscon plaint, which mace George to laugh very heartily, whilethe p. or wid«. w fat weeping like ■ m diltizfled. F oi wo-mat frys < e- tge ycu ecd n t think that r>rn wi'l fpeaka woro foi yt.u. or any ehe, uni f> you h d brought h rr, apn, fe th L' h't« L oft his tongue; but as I havt got a fcheme*©f the matter, you city go home, Kn>i have patience untilthe litre con e t n<3 'hen my life*for yttirf, poor wc«n»nithen 1 fhall fend you a' atton ty, who wil‘ dp your bufinefsfor nothing. He gave the poor Kroman more courage tfiansny fhe hac fpokiii wih. in ’on oh : fi every one t«ld her,that all the attermes in the worfd ceuld m i free her Soaccordingly it the cay appoin’ed,* Gtoi’ge d’-effid hio-felflike an attorney whli his gow. , ai d every thing as he hadreally been fo 'I he cr urt eing tcnceCj and the pn»ccfsread over, experces and tue value of the pack, having a*mounted to above feven hundred p >ui,ds, w ■'is ordered tote put in decreet againii the poor Widow, which every onewab bemoaning, but could give her no rilitf t- ow Georgekept hitnfelf filent, hearing them all with great patience,until the very nick of time, he thought proper 'b addrefslimleif to the judges as followeth- My lords, judges andgentleman cf this honourable Court and company l havecome from London, gratis, cut of pure pity, to fpeak aword or two in favour of this poor woman, who hath ex-haulnd all ker means in defence of a falfe accufaticn charg.ed agauift her, and now when her money .‘3 gone, her fpeak-ers art dumb, at.d I fee none to plead the caufe of this poorWhow. Mow, when fentenee it upon the tapis cf beingprcnour.ced agaiiifther, 1 earnelily delire this court to rro-dif) and drop the exptrees altogether It is trough whenthe poor Woman Ins the park to pay ; for you all knowthe woman was no way eruiched by it, when the other mengc it away. 'I hen the pui tuei’p attorney made anfw er asfollows. Sir, 1 would have thought that ycu, who havejEome frejn London, jtnti jrcfefles to be a doitcr ef law, 1—  »j; nocic uOout to tec -m- wus uone, and 1iliou’cl kncr.' b-tfer thirds: kr,ov.- >e net, that he who ga’r.4•jhc plea, gains bis expcr.ccs as weH as the fsins, or be whatit will: Ye:, it mini ami iT.alltefo, laid the judges Then,said George, This all I want ; which fet the whole Court: i laughing thinkiog be teas a fool, and tiecu:T.e an .dver-■ ary to the poor woman. O-ve over y ur fport, gentlemen,pays George, I have not done yet — Mv Iojc's, judges, you’ll;atar me in thi1, if the poor Voman mace a bargain withii;his mercbai t, and the ether tw > who was itdth him, for toiktep that pa.-k fafely, and to deliver it to none of them, un-itil they were all three prefent ; now, let that men, who isJht're at the tii- e, go and fe k the other two, and they fliall■fav: their pack, for !tc has the pack fafe enough ; but fits!'wil! keejsby hcthrft br.rg . in • Sc. ‘ refer to yeu judget Ptid'gentlemen, i: thi:-‘pcbr Vi on an'be'not in the right. This'made t’"c ju ge' Icok one to ar.tther, and the while Ccurt.with one voice, eieclar d the'Woman to he in the right, and-ordered t‘* e purfuer t g» and ft k hi two companicne. No,no,'! ys Geotge. ’ the poor Won. n muft fmft have her ex.ipuKet, or f curity for t. rhen chcjudge raulei the pur*jfuet t-'- hi arrdted at tl e b^ry tiht'f tne Womm gotlhti iac*Jtic n for all Fir tfotble Eiti txprrces. '•■o George returnedito L> rdon ueki cwii, bn', for an advocate, who e fame wasjfpread over all England ; which caufed triary v.ho had law.«fu:t!. to ftardi t' rniigh London ft r him, but could neveri find the advoc: te who ha<t gain’d 'he widows law plea.George b ing erne day Sn the ccui.tvy, aiui coming thro*i a \illag*, there «ime c great t ig n.aflifi rlog and grij pe-d l imbv the leg, unt-l the o'te d ftllov.ed l is longteeth ; Gtorgei with one Uroke cfhis cane came over his eyes, rntif he ftll: down and ohd itpon the font • ’t's well for thee, fay? George,i that I kdled ti;ee before thou wait brought to jufttce, forI 1-’ nu hadft certainly been hanged for what thou haft done,i and thy mailer f verely fined Lr keeping thee f he owneri of the dog hearing Gecrgb fiy fo. went ofi without fpcakingI a word to George, for tear it had been il>Two drunken ttllow's one day ft.* a beating one another■ on the fireets of London, wdiich canfeo a gttat ctowd ofpeople throng together to fee v hat it was; a taylor being awork up in a high gsrret, about three or four Hones high,and he hearingtoe ncife- in the ftte. t,looked ovi rthewdnek.wbut could rtt w';!l f^e them s t.e began to ftretch bimfclf,waLing a long neck until hs fell down cut of the window,— ...01 f.vctuy uay s, tic WQUrt/5~( 3° )Sn<? a!iojited on an old war, who was walking on the ftreetjjthe poor taylor was irore atraid than hurt, but the Rian he ,fell-on died dircdlly. His fon caufed the taylor to be ap- eprehended, and tiied for the murder of his father ; the jm7"could not briug it in as wilful murder, neither could theyaltogether free thetaylor j the jure gave ov^r to thejudgee, aand thejudges to the king : the king afktd George’s sdficcin tins hard matter. Why, fays George, I 1) give you myopinion in a minute ; you muft caufe tLe taylor to hand onthe ftreet, in the fame place where the old gentleman wa*w hen he was killed by the taylor, and then let the old gen¬tleman’s fon, the taylor’s advtrfary, go up to the windowfrom whence the taylor fell, and jump down, and fo hill thetaylor, a* he did his fathei ; fo^ I can make no more of it.You lee it was a great mercy for the taylor he had the oldgentleman btwW him, elfc he had been killed on the fpot;and that it was the old gentleman’s lot or misfortune to diethere The taylor’s adverfary hearing this fen tin ce pall, hewould not venture to jump over the wiadow, and fo the !taylorgot char off.PART VI.>I\ GE being out; night in company with fotne Englifh )nob'.?men ja prdvnce of the king, they began to demon-ftrate ucha line place as England was, both for beautifulbuildings and rruitful fields : one gentleman fail, he knewa-place in England, though they fhould crop the grafs evenwith the ground at night, and lay down a crown on it be¬fore a hundred witneffes, and againll tomorrow you wouldnot know where to find it That may feem very flrange tofome. fays George, but it is no myfter y to me, knowing,there would be enough «f them whb faw the crown-piecelaid down, ready enough to come and take it up before to¬morrow. Eut, fays George, I know a place in the weft,ofScotland, where, if ycu’ll tether a herfe at tiight, againft thenext morning you wdl not fee him What a pox will takehim a way ? fays the EngMhman. Only fuch people, faysGeorge, as will take away your crown,piece. O! C'ystheEnghlh nobleman, you know what I mean. Then, faysGeorge, you talk much of towns yon hare in England, 1know three towns in poor Scotland, for properties you havenone fuch Pray, fays the gentleman, what are thefe pro-pivties ? Why. fays Gecrge, I know one town where theresre a hundred bene bridges ia it; another towa where therec£;, f >V —«f 31 )!,re fifty firaw-brififfcs in it; another town where, tho* a manreomnits murSer, treafon, or owes never f« mu_H money, ific runs to that town, and gets in below a flair, no taws norfiuftice-can harm him The nobh-man offered immeljately! r> flalces a hundred pounds, that there wa- no fucb towns inySurope, hefides in Scotland. They defired George to tell,fnut tt»e names of thefe towns, f r they would find him out,))ind know whether he was a liar or not So he told theirnames, and two m^n were fent to Sc uland to fee them : theI'iril was Duddingftone, near Edinburgh, where they camtimnd afked for the bone bridges there ; the people fhewedirhem fteps almofi between everv door, of the fculb of flieep-theads, which they ufed as ilepping ftones. The fecond vaa'i Ittle country village between Stirling nd Perth, calledi Auchterar.loch, where there is a large firand which tunsnthrough the middle of the town, and almofl at evj’y doorkhere is a long flick one ^aid over t'^e llrand, whereiipottiithey pafs to their oppofite neighbou»-s, and when a floodnaame, they would lift their wooden bridges, in cafe tin ynliould be taken away, and thefe they call their draw brid-•gea. f he third was a village near Cambufban'on, which theytiipafsed through from one end to the other but there was not) a flair in it all; fo they returned to England, and told whatGimanner and bone and draw bridges they were ; and how»there was not a flair in all that place, therefore no manincould run in below it .Now George being old, and highly advanced in years :nfindtnghis natural flrength and (late of health daily decayingnhe petitioned king James to let hirrweturn to Scotland, forto vifit his friends, and land of hi? nativity ; wtdeh he molfciiwillingly'granted, f not t hinking his defign was never to re¬turn, 1 for George had a great defire to refigfl Iris foul and' breath in-tbat place of the world, where Vo received them ;land tnat bis body and bones might.be laid among his ancef*■ :tors, which was counted a great honour in former oges. ‘So accordingly George came to the parifh Of Buchanan,in the wed of Scotland, where he vifited all his friends and'I relations before his death, during which time the king ferity• ifeveral rneffige" to him to n turn in all the hade he Could f: but he abfolutely refifed, telling him, that he would neveredee hi u airain . which grieved the king very much to hess*hilrt e^Prcfs h.mfelf in that manner. Atu r -this, the kinrWent him a letter, threateningMiim veiy fharply, if he did nor,' appear ia London in the fpace of twenty days, he woutlfcad his lyon liira!ds with a party, who vvauii bring hin taii.iniin. vheth;*■ he vvoali or not. LT-ito which, as an.<Iwer. Georg; font him a fa-noas ’etter of ad cook on, bothanent the governyoenc of his kingdom, and the well beingof his foul, vviheh canfed the king weep very bitterly, wheahe read it o r r, ovieh the following verfe :My honour’d liege, a ><1 fovereign king.OiVour b o thing grra*, f dread nothing sOn roar feud and f.vou’* I’ll Curly venture :t,Vr t ttt la v I’ll jt: vvh re few kings will eater.WITTY 4Vi) ENTEil J HNWG 7BUS.QNfc sliced a painter,howh.• could pa.at fuch pr tty fares iin his piedures, ind yet get i-uch nonel' children? 8e* |eaufe, Aud lie, I make the firft by day-light, and the o'net !ia the dark.A country mn fowiag his gr ound, two fair fe’ o,vs rid-':ing tint way. o ie of them called to hi n v-th an inlol: tit a r„WtU, hoaefl fed w, faid he, it is your bu.fi.i -f- to tow, 'outwe reap the fruits of your labour. fo v lich. the. c 11 itryman tapli d, ’tis v :ry likelv you may, for T am lo ving he up.Two Oxford feholars meeting on the road mth n Y 'rk>/hire hodl.r, they f li to bantering him, and at 1 to the t :l. ,low, that they would pr >ve him to he a horie, or an »fs. iWell, faid the hotiler, and I can prove your fiddle to oe a.mule. Cried one of them, how can that be ? Becaufe, faid'the holller, it is fo netfling between a ho'fe an i an afs.A beggar alking aim, under the name of a poor fgholar,, ja geutlehr.u, to whom he anp i d hi nfelf, adcing him aquellion in latin '".lefellow fhakmg hi< head, faid, he diiiinot underftaud him Wgy, fays the gentleman, did not yoc |fay you was a poor fcholar ? Yes, replie 1 tne other, a poor:on- indeed, hr, for I do not undent-md one word of LitinWiieu his late tnajefl;y,in eo i.. ;g irom li o1:aad,happcntdJft^t with a violent ftorna at, tea, the cap aiu of he yacht!cried .to the chaplain. In five,minutes, doctor, we (hall bf:jvrit i the oAord. Yhe Lo-d forbid, answered the cl odor.A,gantleman having lent for his carpe iter’s fervant te-knoc^a ^ail or two in his ftudy ; the;fellow, after he haddone, feratched his ears, and laid, he hoped the gentle mar:«wpuU giv um fomethingto make him drink. Mike yntdrink, fay • the: gentleman, there’s a pickled herring for you^,nd if thai; west slake you drink, I’U give you another, .- • • « « I S. v; . .. ;a.ssq'ts i