No. 25.LIFEOFLOUIS PHILIPPE,LATE KING OF THE FRENCH ;CONTAININGA COPJtECT ACCOUNT OF HIS EARLY EDUCATION;HIS TRIALS & ADVENTURES DURING HIS TRAVELS IN EUROPE & AMERICA jHIS POLITICAL CAEEER ; ABDICATION ;AND REVOLUTION OE 1848,WITH THE CAUSES WHICH LED TO THAT EVENT.LIFE OF LOUIS PHILIPPE,LATE ICING OF THE FRENCH.The subject of our memoir was born in Paris on the6th of October, 1773. He is the eldest son of LouisPhilippe-Joseph, Dnke of Orleans—better known asPhilippe Egalite—and of Marie, only daughter ofthe Duke of Penthievre. At an early age, LouisPhilippe was entitled the Duke of Yalois ; but,when his father became Duke of Orleans in 1785, hewas created Duke of Chartres, which title he retainedmany years.Citizen Egalite was not without personal and po¬litical faults ; but, whatever these may have been, hewas kind and indulgent to his children, and was bythem beloved in return. Anxious that his family—consisting of four sons and a daughter—should havethe benefit of a sound education— in which he washimself deficient—he committed them to the care ofthe Countess de Genlis, a lady whose talents emi¬nently qualified her for such a charge. The meansshe adopted to form the character of her young pupils,were admirable; although, at that time, they werenot well understood. She considered it her first dutyto instruct them in the doctrines of Christianity, toinspire them with a love of God and his works, andto remove from them everything which in any waytended to contaminate their minds or feelings. Underthe superintendence of the Countess, they were taughtthe various branches of polite learning; and, being at¬tended by domestics who spoke English, German, and4LIFE OF LOUIS PHILIPPE.Italian, respectively, they soon learned to converse inthese languages. Their physical education also en¬gaged much of her attention. She trained the youngprinces to endure all kinds of fatigue, and taughtthem a variety of useful and amusing exercises.Under the direction of a German gardener, they culti¬vated a small garden at St. Leu, a country residencenear Paris; and a medical gentleman, who attendedthem as a companion, instructed them in botany andthe practice of medicine. They also learned basket¬making, weaving, carpentery, turning, and cabinet¬making. The young Duke of Chartres took greatpleasure in such pursuits, particularly in the last-mentioned business, in which he was so perfect, that,with only the assistance of his brother, the Duke ofMontpensier, he made up a handsome chest of drawersand a cupboard, for a poor woman in the village nearwhich they resided.A Journal kept by the Duke of Chartres has lat¬terly been given to the public, and we are now inpossession of many interesting particulars of his earlylife, as well as with the sentiments he then enter¬tained. Madame de Genlis and her husband werewarm adherents of the political movements of 1789,and, with the concurrence of the Duke of Orleans, theyendeavoured to impress their sentiments on the mindof their charge; and, with this view, entered him amember of the Jacobin Club, whose sittings, as wellas those of the National Assembly, he always attended;but, what was much more praiseworthy, he devoteda good deal of his time in acquiring a knowledge ofsurgery, and regularly visited the Great Public Hos¬pital of Paris. In illustration of his youthful char¬acter and pursuits, a few entries from his Journal arehere given:—“Nov. 2 (1790).—I was yesterday admitted amember of the Jacobins, and much applauded. I re-LIFE OF LOUIS PHILIPPE.5turned thanks for the kind reception which they wereso good as to give me, and 1 assured them that Ishould never deviate from the sacred duties of a goodpatriot and a good citizen.“■Nov. 2ti.—I went this morning to the Hotel-Dieu.The next time I shall dress the patients myself. * *“Dec. 2.—I went yesterday morning to the Hdtel-Dieu. I dressed two patients, and gave one six, andthe other three livres. * *“Dec. 25 I went yesterdaymorning to confession.I dined at the Palais Royal, and then went to thePhilanthropic Society, whence I could not get awaytill eight o’clock. * * X -went to the midnightmass at St. Eustache, returned at two in the morning,and got to bed at half-past two. I performed my de¬votions at this mass [[Christmas].“Jan. 7 (1791).—1 went this morning to the Hotel-Dieu in a hackney-coach, as my carriage was not, come, and it rained hard. I dressed the patients andbled three women. * *“Jan. 8 In the morning to the Assembly ; at sixin the evening to the Jacobins. M. de Noailles pre¬sented a work on the Revolution, by Mr. JosephTowers, in answer to Mr. Burke. He praised ithighly, and proposed that I should be appointed totranslate it. This proposition was adopted with greatapplause, and I foolishly consented, but expressedmy fear that I should not fulfil their expectations. Ireturned home at a quarter past seven. At night myfather told me that he did not approve of it, and Imust excuse myself to the Jacobins on Sunday. [[Weafterwards learn that the translation was executed ;but that his tutor, Mr. Pieyre, arranged it for thepress.] * *“Jan. 28 [[Mentions how he caught cold].—Wentto Bellechasse, where, notwithstanding my headache,and though I had much fever, I wished to remain r<1LIFK OF I,O0IS PHILIPPEbut my friend (Madame de Genlis) sent me away, re¬minding me that I was to be at the Hotel-Dieu inthe morning.” * *From this Journal it would appear that the Dukeof Chartres was strongly attached to Madame deGenlis. Referring to that lady, of date 22nd May,he writes.—“ 0, my mother, how I bless you forhaving preserved me from all those vices and misfor¬tunes (too often incident to youth), by inspiring mewith that sense of religion which has been my wholesupport.”Some time previous to this, the Duke was ap¬pointed to the office of Colonel in the 14th Regimentof Dragoons, and, as it became necessary to assumethe command in person, he proceeded to Vendome inJune, 1791, at which period there was considerablecommotion in many parts of France, on account ofseveral of the clergy refusing to take an oath pre¬scribed by the Constitution. In some places theseindividuals were ejected from their livings, and whilethe Duke was in Vendbme, a disturbance took placein which the lives of two of them would have beensacrificed but for his interference. He thus describesthe occurrence:—'•'■June 27 [^Referring to a procession led by one ofthe clergymen who had taken the oath] At noonI had brought back the regiment, but with orders notto unhoot or unsaddle. I asked Messrs. Dubois,d’Albis, Jacquemin, and Philippe, to dinner. Theybrought us word that the people had collected in amob, and were about to hang two priests. I ran im¬mediately to the place, followed, by Pieyre, Dubois,and d’Albis. I came to the door of a tavern, whereI found ten or twelve national guards, the mayor, thetown-clerk, and a considerable number of people,crying, ‘They have broken the law; they must beLIFE OF LOUIS PHILIPPE.7hanged—to the lamp-post!’ I asked the mayor -whatall this meant, and what it was all about. He replied,‘It is a nonjuring priest and his father, who haveescaped into this house; the people allege that theyhave insulted M. Buisson, a priest, who has taken thecivic oath, and who was carrying the holy sacrament,and I can no longer restrain them. I have sent fora voiture to convey them away. Have the goodnessto send for two dragoons to escort them.' I did soimmediately. The mayor stood motionless beforethe door, not opening his mouth. I therefore ad¬dressed some of the most violent of the mob, and en¬deavoured to explain ‘how wrong it would be to hangmen without trial; that moreover, they would bedoing the work of the executioner, which they con¬sidered infamous ; that there were judges whose dutyit was to deal with these men.’ The mob answeredthat the judges were aristocrats, and that they didnot punish the guilty. I replied, ‘ That’s your ownfault, as they are elected by yourselves ; but youmust not take the law into your own hands.’ Therewas now much confusion; at last one voice cried—‘ Wowill spare them for the sake of M. de Chartres. ‘Yes,yes, yes,’ cried the people ; ‘ he is a good patriot; heedified us all this morning. Bring them out; weshall do them no harm.’ I went up to the room wherethe unhappy men were, and asked them if they wouldtrust themselves to me ; they said ‘yes.’ I precededthem down stairs, and exhorted the people not to for¬get what they had promised. They cried out again,‘ Be easy; they shall receive no harm.’ I called tothe driver to bring up the carriage; upon which thecrowd cried out, ‘No voiture—on foot, on foot, thatwe may have the satisfaction of hooting them, and ex¬pelling them ignominiously from the town.’ ‘ Well,’I said, ‘ on foot; be it so ; ’tis the same thing to me,for you arc too honest to forfeit your word.’ We8LIFE OF LOOTS rniLTPPE.set out amidst hisses and a torrent of abuse; I gavemy arm to one of the men, and the mayor was on theother side. The priest walked between MessrsDubois and d’Albis. Not thinking at the moment,I unluckily took the direction towards Paris. Themayor asked one of the men where he would wish togo; he answered, ‘ To Blois.’ It was directly thecontrary way from that which we were taking. Themayor wished to return, and to pass across the wholetown. I opposed this, and we changed our direction,but without going back through the streets. Wopassed a little wooden bridge of a few planks withoutrails; there the mob cried to throw them into theriver, and endeavoured, by putting sticks across, tomake them fall into the water. I again remindedthem of their promise, and they became quiet. Whenwe were about a mile out of the town, some of thecountry people came running down the hill, and threwthemselves upon us, calling out, ‘ Hang or drown thetwo rascals!’ One of them seized one of the poorwretches by the coat, and the crowd- rushing in,forced away the mayor and M. d’Albis. I remainedalone with M. Dubois, and we endeavoured to makethe peasant loose his hold. I held one of the men byone hand, and by the other endeavoured to free thecoat. At last one of the national guard arrived toour assistance, and by force cleared the man. Thecrowd was still increasing. It is hut justice to thepeople of Ycnddme to say that they kept their word,and tried to induce the peasants to do no violence tothe men. Seeing, however, that if I continued mymarch, some misfortune must inevitably occur, I criedwe must take them to prison, and then all the peoplecried, ‘To prison! to prison!’ Some voices cried,‘They must ask pardon of God, and thank M. deChartres for their lives.’ That was soon done, andwe set out for the prison. As we went along, oneLIFE OP LOTUS PHILIPPE.9man came forward with a gun, and said to us, ‘Standout of the way while I fire on them.’ Believing tiiathe was really about to fire, I rushed forward in frontof my two men, saying, ‘ You shall kill me first.’ Asthe man was well dressed, M. Pieyre said to him,‘But how can you act so?’ ‘I was only joking,'says the man ; ‘ my gun is not charged.’ We againcontinued our way, and the two men were lodged inthe prison.”The poor priests were ultimately left to be dealtwith according to law. A few days after, he makesthe following entry “Several of those who the daybefore had been the most savage, came with tears toask my pardon, and to thank me for having savedthem from the commission of a crime.” The Duke’sfeelings on this, as on the following occasion, musthave been enviable.“August 3.—Happy day! I have saved a man’slife, or rather have contributed to save it. This even¬ing, after having read a little of Pope, Metastasio,and Emile, I went to bathe. Edward and I weredressing ourselves, when I heard cries of ‘ Help, help,I am drowning ! ’ I ran immediately to the cry, asdid Edward, who was farther. I came first, andcould only see the tops of the person’s fingers. I laidhold of that hand, which seized mine with indescrib¬able strength, and by the way in which he held me,would have drowned me, if Edward had not come upand seized one of his legs, which deprived him of thepower of jumping on me. We then got him ashore.He could scarcely speak, but he nevertheless expressedgreat gratitude to me.as well as to Edward. I thinkwith pleasure on the effect this will produce atBellechasse. I am born under a happy star! Op¬portunities offer themselves in every way: I haveonly to avail myself of them ! The man we saved is10LIFE OF LOUIS PHILIPPE.one M. Siret, an inhabitant of Yendome, sub-engineerin the office of roads and bridges. I go to bed happy!“August 11.—Another liappyday. I had been in¬vited yesterday to attend at the Town-House withsome non-commissioned officers and privates. I wentto-day, and was received with an address ; there wasthen read a letter from M. Siret, who proposed thatthe municipal body should decree that a civic crownshould be given to any citizen who should save thelife of a fellow-creature, and that, in course, oneshould be presented to me. The municipal bodyadopted the proposition, and I received a crown amidstthe applause of a numerous assembly of spectators.I was very much ashamed. I nevertheless expressedmy gratitude as well as I could.”We quote a single passage to show his diligence inthe studies which engaged his attention :—“ Yesterday morning at exercise. On returning,I undressed, and read some of Henault, Julius Cajsar,Sternheim, and Mably. Dined, and after dinner readsome of Ipsipyle, Metastasio, Heloise, and Pope. Atfive, to the riding-house; and afterwards read Emile.”A writer in the Quarterly Review, referring to theJournal from which these extracts are taken, says—“ There are in it many puerile passages, and a fewwhich, even under all extenuating circumstances, maybe called blameable. * * But we think it mustbe agreed that, on the whole, it is creditable to his|Yhe duke’s] good sense, and even to his good nature.Lfet it be recollected that it was written at the age ofseventeen—that his mind, ever since it was capableof receiving a political idea, had been imbued withrevolutionary doctrines by the precepts of his in¬structors, the authority and example of a father, anda general popular enthusiasm, which had not yet as¬sumed the mad and bloody aspect which it soon afterLIFE ok LOUIS PHILIPPE.11bore; and we think we may u^ly assert, that fewyoung men of that period—if their con-Wt were re¬ported with equal fidelity and minuteness—wouuj aD_pear in so favourable a light as Louis-Philippe doesin this his journal.”In August, 1791, the Duke of Chartres, with hisregiment, left Yendome and went to Valenciennes,where he remained till war was declared againstAustria, which was then planning an invasion ofFrance, when the Duke made his first campaign.On 20th September, 1792, he fought at Yalmy; andafterwards distinguished himself at the Battle ofJemappes (6th November), under Dumouriez.While thus engaged in the service of his country,the revolution was fast hastening to a crisis. Afterthe French monarchy was extinguished, and the kingand his family imprisoned, a decree of banishmentwas passed against all the other members of theBourbon race. Alarmed at this circumstance, the■ Duke of Chartres entreated his father to take refugein a foreign country. Addressing the Duke ofOrleans, he said, “You will assuredly find yourselfin an appalling situation. Louis XVI. is about to beaccused before an assembly of which you are a mem¬ber. You must sit before the king as his judge. Rejectthe ungracious duty, withdraw with your family toAmerica, and seek a calm retreat far from the enemiesof France, and there await the return of happierdays.” The Duke of Orleans, however, refused tolisten to these persuasions, considering it his duty toremain; or, what is more likely, expecting that afavourable turn of affairs would elevate him to thefirst place in the nation.On the 21st of January, 1793, Louis XVI. was be¬headed; and, a few months after, the Duke of Orleanswas tried on a charge of conspiracy, and condemnedto death. Disgusted with the conduct of his judges,12LIFE OF LOUIS PITIMl’PE.he begged, as a ^vour, that the sentence should baimmediacy executed. His wish was granted, and,„* iour o’clock on the morning of the 7th November,he was led from the court to the guillotine. Thusperished Philippe Egalite in the prime of life, beingonly in his forty-sixth year.Some months previous to this event, the Duke ofChartres, and his friend General Dumouriez, weresummoned to appear before the Committee of PublicSafety, but, knowing that condemnation was sure tofollow’, they fled to the Belgian Netherlands. TheAustrian authorities were anxious that the Dukeshould enter their service, but he declined to fightagainst France, and retired into private life. He nowtravelled to Switzerland, and, having been joined byhis sister Adelaide and Madame de Genlis at Schoff-hausen, they wrent to Zurich, where they intendedto take up their abode, but the French royalist emi-gtants being unfriendly to the House of Orleans, theywere obliged to seek a new retreat. They accordinglyleft Zurich and crossed the mountains to Zug, wherethey were accommodated with a small house; but, theirrank having been discovered, they had again to seekfor a place of rest. By the kindness of a friend, Made¬moiselle d’Orleans and her instructress were admittedto the convent of Saint-Claire, near Bremgarten; and,being thus relieved of anxiety on their account, theDuke of Chartres travelled over different countries ofEurope, an outlaw and an exile, depending on but asmall sum of money, his own energies, and an excel¬lent education.At Basle, the first place he visited, he sold all hishorses except one, with which, accompanied byBadouin, a faithful servant who would not leave him,he set out on his journey. Badouin, however, wasill, and being unable to walk, his kind-hearted mastermounted him on his own horse, and leading the ani-LIFE OF LOUIS PHILIPPE.13real himself, issued from the gates of Basle. The ex¬penses attending an excursion of several monthsthrough the most picturesque parts of Switzerland,diminished his resources, and having parted with hishorse, he was now obliged to pursue his journey onfoot, frequently toilwom ; and, at last reduced to thegreatest straits, it became necessary for him to labourfor his daily bread. Through the influence of a friend,he obtained the situation of teacher in the academy ofIteichenau, a village in the south-eastern part ofSwitzerland. With a stick in his hand and a bundleon his back, he set out on his journey, and soon ar¬rived at Reichenau, where, under an assumed name,he taught history, geography, mathematics, and theFrench and English languages for eight months. Inthis situation he gave the highest satisfaction to hisemployers and pupils, and was much esteemed by theinhabitants.After leaving Reichenau, he retired to Bremgarten,where he remained till the end of 1794, when he con¬sidered it necessary to quit Switzerland.The Duke of Orleans,ashe was entitled to be namedsince his father’s death,now resolved to go to America;but being unable to raise sufficient funds to carry himto the United States, he determined to visit the Northof Europe. A banker in Copenhagen, on whom hehad a letter of credit for a small amount, procuredpassports for him as a Swiss traveller, from the Kingof Denmark, and he was thus enabled to proceed insafety through Norway and Sweden—arriving at theNorth Cape in August, 1785. After remaining therea few days, he returned through Lapland, visitingTorneo, Abo, and Finland. He then proceeded toDenmark, and, under a foreign name, retired fromobservation.The French government left no means untried todiscover his hiding place; but so prudent were the14LIFE OF LOUIS PHILIPPE.precautions he adopted, that they lost all trace of him.Baffled in all their efforts, they proposed to theDuchess of Orleans that she should write the Princeto proceed to the United States, promising to removethe sequestration from her own property, and allowher younger sons (who were imprisoned in the townof St. Jean, at Marseilles) to join their brother inAmerica. To this the Duchess agreed, and wrote herson, advising him to comply with the terms; conclud¬ing her letter with these words—“ May the prospectof relieving the sufferings of your poor mother, ofrendering the situation of your brothers less painful,and of contributing to give quiet to your country,recompense your generosity!”On receipt of tins communication, the Duke de¬termined to embark without delay, and wrote inreply—“ When my dear mother shall receive this let¬ter, her orders will have been executed, and I shallhave sailed for the United States.” He accordinglyengaged a passage for himself and his servant in theship “American,” then lying in the Elbe—sailed onthe 24th of September, 179b, and, on the 21st of thefollowing month, arrived at Philadelphia. Here hewas joined by his two brothers, Montpensier andBeaujolais, and having fixed on a place of residence,they passed the winter together.During their stay in Philadelphia, the young princeswere presented to General Washington, who invitedthem to his house when his term of service expired.The invitation was accepted, and, some time after,they visited Mount Yernon, where they were kindlyreceived, and where they spent a few days.After leaving Mount Yernon, they set out on a tourto the western country, and passing through Ken¬tucky, Pittsburgh, Buffalo, crossed to the British side,and visited the Palis of Niagara. On their return toPhiladelphia, the Duke of Montpensier, in a letter toLIFE OF LOUIS PHILIPPE.15his sister, dated 14th August, 1797, gives the follow¬ing account of their journey.“ I hope you received the letter which we wroteyou from Pittsburgh two months since. We werethen in the midst of a great journey, that we finishedfifteen days ago. It took us four months. We trav¬elled during that time a thousand leagues, and alwaysupon the same horses, except the last hundred leagues,which we performed partly by water, partly on foot,partly upon hired horses, and partly by the stage orpublic conveyance. We have seen many Indians, andwe remained several days in their country. Theyreceived us with great kindness, and our nationalcharactercontributed not a little to this good reception,for they love the French. After them, we found theFalls of Niagara, which I wrote you from Pittsburghwe were about to visit, tbe most interesting object up¬on our journey. It is the most surprising and majesticspectacle I liave ever seen. It is a hundred and thir¬ty-seven (French) feet high; and the volume of wateris immense, since it is the whole river St Lawrencewhich precipitates itself at this place. I have takena sketch of it, and I intend to paint a picture in watercolours from it, which my dear little sister will cer¬tainly see at our tender mother’s; but it is not yetcommenced, and will take me much time, for truly itis no small work. To give you an idea of the agree¬able manner in which they travel in this country, Iwill tell you, my dear sister, that we passed fourteennights in the woods, devoured by all kinds of insects,after being wet to the bone, without being able to dryourselves; and eating pork, and sometimes a littlesalt beef and corn bread."While the princes were residing in Philadelphia,the city wras visited by the yellow fever, from which,for want of funds, they were unable to fly; but, fortun¬ately, a remittance from their mother reached them in16LTX-'E OF LOUIS PHILIPPE.September, and they undertook an excursion to theeastern part of the United States. On their arrivalin New York, they heard that their mother had beenobliged to fly to Spain, and they now resolved to joinher; but, owing to the war between England andSpain, this was not easily accomplished. They how¬ever set out for New Orleans, expecting to find a con¬veyance for Havana, where they thought they wouldbe able to reach the mother-country. They reachedNew Orleans on the 17th Eebruary, 1798, and thereembarked on board an American vessel for Havana.On the passage, they were boarded by an Englishfrigate under French colours, and the three princeswere apprehensive that they might be recognised andconducted to France ; but when it was discovered onthe one side that it was an English vessel, and on theother that the three passengers were princes of thoHouse of Orleans, the captain made preparations toreceive them on board his ship, where ho treated themwith great kindness, and afterwards conducted themto Havana.During their residence in Cuba, the princes werenot treated with the respect to which they were en¬titled. The Spanish authorities ordered them to re¬turn to New Orleans ; but they declined to do so, andproceeded to the Bahama Islands—thence to NewYork, where they found an English packet, whichconveyed them to Falmouth. The princes reachedFalmouth in February, 1800, and having obtained per¬mission from government to land, they proceeded toLondon, and took up their residence in Twickenham,on the banks of the Thames. Here they were treatedwith ihe greatest kindness by all classes of society;but neither the attentions of the English people, northe splendours of fashionable life, could efface the re¬membrance of his mother from the heart of the Dukoof Orleans; and government having given him andl.TFE OF LOUIS PHILIPPE.17liis brothers a free passage to Minorca, they proceededthither, expecting to find means of passing over toSpain, where their parent was in exile. From theconvulsed state of Spain at this time, their expeditionproved fruitless, and they returned to England again,taking up their abode at Twickenham. Here theDuke of Orleans engaged in the study of politicaleconomy, Ike.; and at times made excursions to theseats of the nobility, where he might have enjoyedhimself, hut for the illness of his brother, the Duke ofMontpensicr, whose health, since his first arrival inEngland, was gradually sinking. His somewhatweakly constitution was deranged by long confinementin prison, and, notwithstanding every effort to savehim, this amiable prince died 18th May, 1807.The health of Count Beaujolais was also affectedby the same treatment as that of his brother, and hewas ordered by his physicians to proceed to a warmerclimate. The change, however, was unavailing, forhe died shortly after his arrival at Malta.The Duke, almost broken-hearted by these bereave¬ments, passed from Malta, whither he had accom¬panied his brother, to Messina, in Sicily, and visitedKing Ferdinand of Naples. During his residence atPalermo, he won the affections of the Princess Amelia,and having obtained the consent of the king and theDuchess of Orleans (who was released from her im¬prisonment in Spain, and allowed to come to Sicily),the marriage took place in November, 1809.About six months after this event, the Duke ofOrleans was offered a military command by theregency of Spain, to assist in expelling the French in¬vaders. As he was anxious to pursue an active life,he accepted this offer; but, to the disgrace of theCortes, they refused to fulfil their promise; and, afterspending some months in endeavouring to gain redress,the Duke returned to Palermo, where, on his arrival,18LIFE of LOUIS PHILIPPE.lie had the pleasure of learning that the Duchess ofOrleans had given birth to a son.We have, in the foregoing pages, traced our herofrom childhood to youth, and from youth to manhood;and we have seen him in poverty, with scarcely breadto eat, or a house wherein to lay his head. We havenow the more pleasing duty of following him from'comparative obscurity in a foreign land, to the homeof his fathers, and of seeing him, by the force of cir¬cumstances, reach the highest station which any earthlypower can confer.The domestic happiness the Duke of Orleans wasenjoying in Palermo, was in 1814 unexpectedly in¬terrupted by the intelligence that Napoleon had abdi¬cated the throne, and that the Bourbons were to berestored to France. Being now enabled to return tohis own country, and the inheritance of which he hadbeen deprived, the Duke sailed from Sicily in a vesselwhich Lord William Bentinck placed at his disposal.On the 18th of May he arrived at Paris, where hewas soon in the enjoyment of the honours due to hisrank.The return of Napoleon, in 1815, having broken uphis arrangements for settling in his newly-recoveredhome, he sent his family to England, and was orderedby the king, Louis XVIII., to take command of thearmy of the north. In this situation he remained until24th March, 1815, when, having given up the com¬mand to the Duke of Treviso, he joined his family inEngland,and again fixed his residence at Twickenham.In obedience to an ordinance issued after the HundredDays, authorising all the princes of the blood to taketheir seats in the Chamber of Peers, the Duke wentto France in September, 1815, for the purpose of beingpresent; but the liberal sentiments he displayed werenot agreeable to the administration, and he returnedto England, where he remained till 1817. He nowLIFE OF LOUIS PHILIPPE.19returned to France, where the education of In's family-engaged his attention for some time. While thuspursuing a career apart from the court, a new scenewas opened in the drama of the Duke’s eventful life.We allude to the Revolution of 1830, the news ofwhich surprised every nation in Europe. Such anevent was not altogether unlocked for—the conductof the elder family of the Bourbons having been in noway calculated to ensure the attachment of the Frenchpeople. Charles X. and the Prince de Polignac,with the rest of the ministers, struck the final blowat the constitution, and wras one of the most foolishacts of which history presents any record. The factsare as follow. — In May, 1830, the Chamber of Dep¬uties was dissolved, and a new election fixed to takeplace during the latter part of June and beginning ofJuly. The ministry were by no means popular, andthere wyas a strong majority of the new returns againstthem; hut, contrary to the usual custom in consti¬tutional governments, Charles X. determined toretain his ministers, and hazard a new election on suchprinciples as he hoped would gain him a majority inthe Chamber. Almost all the newspapers having de¬nounced these projects as a violation of the charterof the king with his people, they became an object ofattack, and it wTas determined to place the press undersuch laws as would prevent all discussion. Threeordinances were speedily issued by royal authority.The first dissolved the Chambers, the second pre¬scribed a new’ law of election, and the third suspendedthe liberty of the press. The people viewed this dar¬ing act with consternation, and when it became knownin Paris, on 26th July, the funds declined—hankersrefused to discount hills, and manufacturers dischargedtheir workmen, w hich increased the discontent. De¬spite < f the ordinance, several newspapers appeared,and hundreds of copies were sold in the reading-rooms20LIFE OF LOFIS PHILIPPE.and otberplaces, where the journalists met to read themaloud, and comment on them. The seizure of theprinting apparatus of one of the most energetic of theliberal papers by one of the police agents, served asa signal for revolt, and on the night of the 27th July,the streets and boulevards were barricaded, and thepavements torn up to serve as missiles. On the fol-lowiiiff morning all Paris was in arms. The nationalguard were in their old uniform, and the tri-colouredflag was displayed. The government, by a strangeinfatuation, had taken no precaution to support itsmeasures by an armed force. The garrison of Paris,which had just been diminished, contained only 12000soldiers, and instead of bringing an army to bear onthe capital, the minister of war was occupied withother affairs; while M. de Polignao regretted the wantof cash to invest in the funds. To add to the mis¬management, no rations were provided for the soldierswho were on duty in the streets.The fighting on the 28th was considerable—thepopulace firing from house-tops, from windows, andfrom behind barricades. Many of the troops weredisarmed—others were unwilling to fire on their owncountrymen, and some openly joined the citizens. Onthe 29th, the fighting was still greater ; and on the30th, the Parisians gained the victory. There werefrom 7000 to 8000 killed and wounded. The kinghaving been thus in effect discrowned, and the thronevacant, it became necessary to determine what formof government should be .adopted in place of thatwhich had been vanquished. Thiers, and other poli¬ticians who had taken the lead in the provisional gov¬ernment which had risen out of the struggle, lookedtowards the Duke of Orleans, whom they proposed toconstitute lieutenant-general of the kingdom, andafterwards to become king. During the insurrection,the Duke of Orleans resided in seclusion at hisLIFE OF LOUIS PI1ILIFPE.21country seat, and though he might have been watch¬ing the course of events, he took no active part eitherin dethroning his kinsman, or in contriving plans forhis own aggrandisement. •M. Thiers and M. Scheffer visited Nenilly for thepurpose of negotiating with the Duke. He, however,was absent, and the interview took place with theDuchess and the Princess Adelaide, to whom theyexplained the danger with which the nation wasthreatened, and that these could only be averted bythe determination of the Duke to put himself at thehead of a constitutional monarchy. M. Thiers said,“ That nothing was left the Duke of Orleans but achoice of dangers, and that, in the existing state ofthings, to recoil from the possible perils of royalty,was to run full upon a republic and its inevitable vio¬lences.” The Duke having considered the communi¬cation, acceded to the request, and came to Paris atnoon on the 31st, to accept the office assigned to him.The abdication of Charles X. and his son wasplaced in the hands of the lieutenant-general onthe 2nd of August. The Chamber of Deputies de¬clared the throne vacant on the 7th, and on the 8ththe crown was offered to the Duke of Orleans. Heformally accepted the offer on the 9th, and was in¬augurated under the title of Louis Philippe I., Kingof the French. Charles X. and his young grand¬child, Henry, Duke of Bordeaux, in whose favourhe abdicated, were peaceably conducted out of thekingdom.As we have stated, Louis Philippe became King ofthe French on the 9th of August, 1830; and the hap¬piest consequences were expected from the event.The nation had the most unbounded confidence in theking’s talents for government. It was believed thatthe extraordinary v icissitudes of his early life, togetherwith his knowledge of the world, would on all oc-22LIFE OF LOUIS PHILIPPE.casions lead him to sympathize with the people; and,for some years, these hopes were not disappointed.After many troubles, France found repose under hissteady government, and evidences of improvement andprosperity were everywhere apparent. One of thefaults laid to the king’s charge was parsimony. liewas one of the wealthiest men in Europe by familyinheritance, and it was said that his speculations andhabits of economy were unworthy of his high rank ;but tliis accusation must be received with caution, forhe expended an immense amount of money, from hisprivate fortune, in embellishing Versailles, and otherpublic places; as also in the encouragement of thearts. He was most exemplary in his domestic rela¬tions, and affable in personal intercourse. It is to beregretted that Louis Philippe did so little to ensurethe regard of the people over whom he was to reign.His great error seems to have been a love of forward¬ing the views of his family, to the neglect of the pub¬lic interest, for it would seem that he distrusted hisposition, and endeavoured to fortify it by connectinghis children with the reigning powers of Europe. Hiseldest son Ferdinand, Duke of Orleans (born 1810),was married to the Princess Helen of Meeklenburgh-Schwerin; his daughter Louisa (born 1812) toLeopold, King of the Belgians; his son Louis, Dukeof Nemours (born 1814), to the Princess Victoria ofSaxe-Coburg-Gotha; his daughter Clementina (born1817) to Prince Augustus of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha; hisson Francis, Prince of Joinville (born 1818), to thePrincess Frances-Caroline of Brazil; his son the Dukeof Aumale (born 1822), to the Princess Caroline of Sal¬erno ; and Ids son Antony, Duke of Montpensier (born1824), to Louisa, sister of the reigning queen of Spain.The latter marriage did much injury to the reputationof Louis Philippe, for it aimed at the preponderatingintluenco over the Spanish monarchy. With feelingsLTFE OF LOUIS PniLIPPE.2:ithus bound up in his family, the death of the Dukeof Orleans, his eldest son, who was killed in jumpingfrom his carriage, 13th July, 1842, was a severe afflic¬tion. Possessing an amiable disposition, the Duke en¬deared himselfto the French, and hisdeath ledtodistres-singanticipations. lie left two children, Louis PhilippeAlbert, Count of Paris (born in 1838), and RobertPhilippe, Duke of Chartres (born in 1840). Theformer was now heir apparent of the throne of France.Instead of leaving the executive in the hands of theministry, who were alone responsible, Louis Philippewas alleged to have interfered unduly in state affairs.This accusation, presuming it to he well-founded,would not have provoked severe remark, if the kinghad suited his policy to the awakening principles ofconstitutional freedom ; but, unfortunately, his gov¬ernment, with M. Guizot as prime minister, adoptedno means to redress abuses. The conduct of the kingin withstanding reform is inexcusable, seeing that hehad taken an oath to reign in terms of the charter,and got the throne on the promise of favouring consti¬tutional freedom ; and if circumstances kept him fromabiding by that promise, it was his duty to resign.The events of February, 1848, are so well knownthat we need not here repeat them. A large body ofreformers in Paris proposed to have a banquet, witha military procession, on Tuesday, 22nd February.This the ministry denounced as illegal, and it was ac¬cordingly abandoned; but much excitement prevailed,and some disturbances ensued. The people cried for“reform,” and in the course of Wednesday, the 23d,the insurrection became menacing; though it yetmerely aimed at a change of ministry. In order toappease the discontented, Guizot was dismissed, andCount Mole appointed to form a new administration.The same evening, the crowd was fired on by thesoldiers, and several persons having been killed, a cry24LIFE OF LOUIS PHILIPPE.for vengeance arose, and the people began to erect bar¬ricades. Count Mole having failed to form a ministry,the duty was assigned to Thiers and Barrot, on the24th ; but the time for concession was now past, thenational guard having already joined the people. Inthe terror of the moment, the king abdicated in favourof the Count of Paris,.—a child ten years old—andproposed Ids mother as regent; but this proposal wasrejected—a republic was proclaimed, and a provisionalgovernment appointed. The monarchy was thusswept away, an 1 Louis Philippe, with Ids chief mini¬ster, Guizot, fled from the country. The former,afraid of falling into the hands of the enraged popu¬lace, had to assume various disguises in his attempt toescape—thus adding new adventures to his strangecareer.On the third of March he and his faithful wifereached England, where the scattered members ofids family had already taken refuge, and were receivedin this country with that kindness and respect whichis never withheld from the unfortunate.This remarkable man died at Richmond, on Mon¬day mondng, 26th August, 1850. He had been ina declining state of health for some time previous, butnothing serious was apprehended till the day beforehis death, when a change for the worse was percepti¬ble, and he never ralied after. Towards 7 o’clock inthe evening the debility from which he had been suf¬fering appeared to have passed over, and fever cameon, which continued with much violence during thenight. He gradually sunk under his illness, and ex¬pired in presence of his lady and the other membersof his family, at 8 o’clock on the day above mentioned.