THEW°dS.PLEASURES- OFMATRIMONY,INTERWOVEN WITH SUNDRYComical and Delightful Stories^WITH! The Charming Delights and Ravishing Sweets ofWooing and Wedlock,In all its Diverting Enjoyments.STIRLING:PRINTED BY WILLIAM MACNlI.And Sold Wholesale and Retail,THEPLEASURESOFMATRIMONY,iIt is a strange thing that people shouldask of the fifteen comforts or pleasuresof Matrimony, as if they could be num¬bered ; whereas I affirm, that the pleasuresof Matrimony are numberless. No won¬der then there is nothing more desired, oreven covered, than Matrimony, and that ithas been in such high esteem among ailnations from the beginning of the world.It is true there has been a clamour against ‘it; and many that.condemn it, and cry itdown, mistake comforts for discomforts.3(And yet even those who complain themost against Matrimony, will allow thati there are fifteen comforts in it, and if so,! though there were no more, \vhich yet Iwill not grant, who, that is not a madman,1 would not marry to enjoy fifteen suchcomforts, as all the world cannot afford! him besides ? But what will such men sayF to wooing? 1 own indeed, it is not Ma-! trimony itself, but it is the highway to it,5 and he that marries without it loses one> of the chiefest pleasures that belong to it.So that in order to treat of the pleasures,! of Matrimony, I find it necessary to beginf with Wooing.Wooing consists in a man's pitchingIupon some object of his affections of thefemale sex j and it is a comfort there aremore maids than mankind, that he is notconfined in his choice ; for if one will not,another will. Well having fixed nponthe desired she, and found out her habi¬tation, with what her fortune is, henext equips himself as fine as the tailoru and semstress can make him, and pre-t; pares for his address j and it is a pleasurei to him to be thus rigged, to win his fair1 mistress. Now, whether the girls have4fat'her or mother, uncle or aunt, there’snone but will admit him to pay a visit tohis mistress, when he cadres in the way ofmatrimony.But now what a pleasure it is to be ad-mitted to a kiss, and a graciofls smileJjam hts mistress. After that he hasjust shewed himself, and talked idly toher about half an hour, what a pleasureis it to him at his departure to oblige herra&id with the king’s picture, which canalsher to give such a character of him, es¬pecially if the picture happens to be setin gold, as he begets in the young womanM.d affection towards him ; whiob, if he0$>me6 to koow at the second meeting, itis impossible to describe the transports Itputs him into ; it inspires such joy in hisbreast that he can scarce t«U where he is,er what he does. But at his departure,he tfcarce forgets to double his generosityt© the maid, as she gives her pronpisee cfEsther services to bum. Nor is the yoUigbaggage woese than her word for she too^eli knows, her own interest: ajad there-fbrO'in about a day of two Dear^Mis^ress,says she,you cannot imagine where I fcsfvebeen this taorning ! No, says the yc^agV5fvntb'vo^ian, how should I? Whjr, saysshe, 1 have been at the coojuser’s, butyou cannot think what a man he is ! Idid but ask whether such a gentlemancourted tny mistress ? and casting his eyeson his book, he told me he did j and de¬scribed him so exactly, that no paintercould have drawn his picture better; andbesides that, he told me that this,was thevery man, and no other* whom fortunedesigned for you ; but 1 would not haveyou believe me, but go Vo him yourselfto-morroiv.The young genK^woman hearing this,is all agog to know the truth of the mat¬ter, and having more mind for marriagethan devotion, instead of prayer, goes tothe conjurer, and he had not been a cun.ning man, if he had not told her right,being instructed by the maid before handwhat to say. Well, the young gentle¬woman being satisfied it was the will ofthe stars, begins presently to have a goodopinion of him, of which the maid failsnot to acquaint him. Now judge, read¬er, if this is not an extraordinary plea¬sure ; for what can contribute more to his6satisfaction, than to find his mistress goto the ! ;vil to make sare of him.But besides this, there passes many let¬ters ; and, O ! what a pleasure it is tohim to - insack ail the academies of com¬pliments for fine tropes and figures toadorn his style with. But then her an¬swers l how transporting they are ! howoftea does he kiss the blotted characters !But see how fresh pleasures crowd uponhim. Just now he is told his mistress willbe at a dancing in Lime-street; this fansthe increasing flame; nothing will serveBut he must be with b^r, and then howhe smirks and simpers ; but when he seesher dance he is all over transports ; howmuch does he admire her lofty carriage :the holding up her petticoat pnchants him,and the celestial motion of her buttocksmake his teeth chatter, and his heart gopit a pat to think what he shall do wbhso much excellence ! But it would takea volume to tell the pleasures of this in¬terview : let it suffice to give him an op.portunity to steal her pocket-handker¬chief, and to treat her and her maid atthe tavern. Nor can his mistress now'refuse to let him take as many kisses as he«r ywill," which yields hiii) such a mightypleasure, th->t he can talk of nothing elsebut the purple violet, the blushing rose,and the lilv's whiteness; the phenix nestis not so pcrt’tfined as she $ and to describeher person, the riches of Mexico and Pe¬ru are far t o mean to stand in competi¬tion with ; er ; nay, ail the dazzlingjewels of the East must give way to hersuperiour lustre. But vVhen they havedrank of the richest wines to recom-pence him for all his pains and charges,his mistnss condescends to treat him, byletting him .aste the charming cherries ofher coral tips, and suck from thence thefragrant breath that far exceeds Arabia’*,rich perfume; which wraps him in suchpleasure, that the young spark imagineshe is in heaver. And if the very way toMatrimony be thus paved with delight,what must tne end of it bt ? And trulywere it no so, do you think the countryclown would plough and harrow, yet flingaway his sickle and flail for the love ofAmariila ? Or, would the tradesmanleave bis shop, but for the pleasures thatattend it? it is this makes the apprenticecourt in huggei-mugger, and values not8the loss of his freedom., v/hen once capti¬vated by the fair Slisantiall’s bright eye.—So mightily transporting are the pleasuresof wooing above any other pleasures inthe world.But if the pleasures of Wooing are sovery great then what are the pleasures ofWedding? Consent being given, and the"wedding resolved on the lover has nowfree access to his mistress, and may kiss,above board as much as he pleases; thewhich is another vast pleasure ; as it isalso to find himself the only welcomeguest in the house, and, as it were alreadyinoculated into the family : And then, itis another pleasure to hear every one com-mending his choice, and telling him howamiable and virtuous a wife he had chosen.Visitors crowd in upon him, especially ofthe fair sex, asking a thousand impertinent-questions, which much needs be greatpleasure for him to answer. When is theday ? cries Mrs Prate-apace. Pray Sir,how near is your happiness ? cries Tit¬tle-tattle. But, in the midst of these im¬pertinences, what a pleasure is it to theyoung man to hear his mother elect takingthe woman up, and saying, Hold, neigh-9bdtars, fair anJ softfy goes far ! she shallnot be married hugger-mugger j my childshall be married according to her quality jl am not for a stolen marriage.But we will talk no more of prelimina¬ries, but cpme to the thing itself j for allthings being settled, and the appointedmorning come up gets the bridegroom,and dresses himself in all his gaudy at¬tire.The bridemaid hastens to the bride'schamber, and there finds her washed,breathing nothing but essance and jessa-mine,^and her fine Holland smcck readyto put on ; sd that being dressed in a trice,she appears more like an angel than likea mortal. She was scarcely dressed,but the bridegroom is coming into herchamber and with submissive knees, adoreshis earthly deity, and kisses the lilies ofher white hands, and sips ambrosial nectarfrom her lips, and then conducts her tothe room of state, where they both standto welcome their invited guests.—Andsure this must yield him much pleasure.Now things being ready, they take coach,environed by a great crowd of spectators,of which hot one of them but must say10something. There’s a well matchedcouple, says one There’s a lovelycouple, says another.—There will be sweetdoing betwixt them to night, says a third.And thus the rabble run along, till thechurch doors are shut, and keep themfrom coming any further. The knot isIbckily fixed which can never be undonebut by the death of one of them. Andtherefore, after the ceremony of ‘ I Johntake thee, Joan ; to be my wedded wife :and 1 Joan take thee, John,’ &c. they gofrom church again, and first receive thejoy of the beggars ; the bridegroom, forthe grandeur of the Wedding, throwingamongst them a handful of small money,which sets them a scrambling : thentaking qpach, they return to the placefrom whence they set out, attended bythe rabble, which is a mark of greatness.Being come into the dining-room, theguests of course must all salute the bride,and, in return, the bridegroom must sa¬lute all the young women ; and this mustsure be a great pleasure to him. Thisusual formality being over, the bride¬groom then drinks a bumper to the wholeassembly.11By this time dinner is upon the table,and marinalled with as much formalityas at Lord Mayor’s feast. After the parsonsays grace, they fall to without fartherceremony ; and here comes a newr pleasureto the bridegroom, to see all the guestsaddress their glasses to the bride, and af¬terwards to him. And it will be a plea¬sure extraordinary to him if h%. can butkeep himself sober till he goes to bed.Nor is it less pleasure to hear the discourseat the table after the second course, whena jolly red nosed toper, a pot companionof the bride’s father, began, saying, Mar¬riage was instituted in a state of innocen-cy, nay, even in Paradise ; and that with¬out it; the church would want pastors,and the kingdom soldiers to defend it.—Nay, farther, that children are blessingsfrom heaven, and therefore barrenness wasaccounted the greatest scandalinthe worldamong the Jewish women : Aye and bythe English women too, replies a graveold matron, and I should be sorry that myyoung mistress here, as well for my ownsake as her’s, should be under that curse jfor I hope eie ten months, to carry herfirst boy to the font.Dinner being over, the parson blessesthem *, when the midwife comes to thebriuegroom, saying, Now, happy man, fora maidenhead ; but there is a great discre¬tion to be used in the gathering of it : itmust be gently cropped for fear of spoil¬ing ; for, if you go too boisterously to vTorkyou’ll pull it up by the roots ; but if youdo it bv degrees, it is young and ten-ier, and you’ll find it coming.We will now suppose the afternoonworn out by dancing, to the great plea- isure of the. spectators, and the night be¬gun,, the bride is stolen away from thecompany, and put to bad ; and after her,,the bridegroom, now ready to consum- ;mate the highest joys of matrimony : but jthough the bridegroom now thinks each <minute an age till he reaps the longed-forfruit of all his amorous expectations, ha iiis still obliged to w rit with patience ; forup comes the sack posset* which the wo- ;men think will make the bridegroom 1kind and lusty too ; nor can the bride and <bridegroom get void of this unnecessary !ceremony, until some good compassion¬ate lady throw on purpose, the stockinginto the posset, when she pretended taj13throw it at the bride. This caused thesack posset to be taken away; which, be¬ing done, it only remained now to kiss thawomen round, that so depart whilst thebride’s mother locked fast the door, andtook away the key, and none might in¬terrupt thea?. They now, being both leftalone, the bridegroom, witho\4 any doubt,improves his time ; and therefore let thissuffice, that they now re vel in those joysthey not long before durst hardly think of;and for the bridegroom, as Oarew ex-i presses it,; w ' *Now his enfranchis’d hand on every side,May o’er her naked polish’d ivory glifte;No curtain now, o’er the transparent lawn,Is there betcre her virgin treasure drawn,Now void of ail offence, he may behold ;Her bosom bare, and her unbraided gold :But though he had revelled in bliss allnight, yet his fair spouse’s mother cameto the fair couple in the morning, tbinquire how her dearest daughter did —Yet the son was first saluted with Son,how is it ? So weil, said he, that I havebeen this night ia Paradise. With that she14put into his hand a plate of comfortablesweetmeats, corsisting of eringoes &c. forbis spouse and he to regale themselves,which done, she fills them a bowl of mus¬cadine, and drops therein a new laid egg,which the bridegroom presenting to thepartner of his pleasure, the mother fillsanother for himself^, which, without en¬treating, he then drank quickly off.—ButMother Midnight, who longed to knowhow the bridegroom performed, and howmany atta cks he had made on the virginfort, comes to the bride, and, with a whis¬per in her ear, would have her confess ;but the lady replied only with a blush,which made the bridegroom guess whatshe meant, and thetefore told her it wasan unfair question as yet ; you ought,said he, to tarry till we rise; and since weare recruited thus pray wait till the phy¬sic has done working, and then take thewhole account together. Upon this, themother and midwife retired. But to di¬gest what they had eaten and drank, bytaking a nap, but the drums and trumpetsbegan to sound, and, in a moment, thestieet was full of benedictions to the brideand bridegroom j and this must be another15*pleasure, for now tbs bridegroom, unwil¬ling to pay the money for nothing, getsup and dances to the music ; and thismust be a great pleasure, for all the sen¬ses are pleased at once.Now the next day is spent in beingtreated by the bridemen at a tavern ; andnow there can be room for nothing butpleasure.The pleasures of the wedding beingover—how ! over did I say? 1 beg yourpardon ; they are so far from being over,that they continue while they live toge¬ther. And therefore 1 should soy, beingthus begun, they are attended by anotherpleasure, and that is housekeeping ; nowtime begins to jog the bridegroom by theelbow, and tell him he ought to mindhis business : for bags will soon growempty unless filled again.—And v/hat ishis pleasure now, but the business ofhousekeeping, and to get all things forit. He that goes a borrowing goes a sor¬rowing, as the old provcib sAs. Andsure the woman is in an ill dentitionwho is obliged to borrow every thing shewants.Now, if she would be finer than therest of her neighbour’s, it is the husband’sreputation, and that must give him plea¬sure. Good housewifery and right ma¬nagement make things last long. It is in¬deed the honour of men to see cleanli¬ness, nor do they love holes in theirstocking heels, nor that their ruffles shouldhfng like bell ropes: and yet they scornto set the least stitch in them tbemscVes.So, therefore to have a wife that willtake care to have every thing done forhim, must needs be a pleasure to him iand what if sometimes she wants a Vene¬tian carpet, eft a little china ware, surelyno man in his wits would quarrel with hiswife about such trifles, when all shouldredound to his reputation : nay supposeshe has a mind for a filler coffee or tea¬pot, or a pair of silver sconces, where isthe harm of it ? Certainly, .the moreplate a man has, the richer he is : thisought therefore to be a pleasure tohim. And I can assure you, of my ownknowledge, there are several husbandswould be glad their w ives had such things.Besides such things set out a room, amimake the kitchen, if the house be kept17clean, have a reputation among the neigh-hours. There’s such a one’s house lookslike a paradise says one.—It would doone’s heart good to look at it, cries ano¬ther. And all will grant it is the mostprovident way for a man to spend but lit¬tle abroad, and keep the better house atI home ; and if so, he may well permit his} wife to entertain her friends now and theni] without prejudice to her husband’s estate ;?j for a glass of wine tastes as well at homei as abroad $ and a capon may be cheaper| dressed in his own kitchen then at aFrench: ordinary. And,* as for women wearingfine clothes,- which some object against, Isay it is for the honour of the nation in;general, and must be a particular pleasureno the husband to see his wife as fine as herii neighbours.But there is another pleasure attendsjiupon matrimony, and that is, if he hasnmarried a wife who has got a relation in^the country, and it is ten to one but sheas, for women do not rise out of thearth like pompions, but their pedigreesuas somewhere or other a beginning. If. the woman has not, perhaps the man has.iAnd whether their relations be by the18man or t . :-v; it is no matter; andtherefore^ •- trey have once contractedmatrimony, .:i! - relations murt be ac¬quainted with And in return, theymust send up a ' t^r, whereon they tell1 him, they shall be very glad to see themboth in the country.Upon this, she willing to see her friendsbefore her lying in, for we will suppose herto be with child already, and the man isno less ambitious to let his kindred seehis nice choice. And let us supposethe young man should have a mind to givehis wife an airing in the country, marry,I think it is a pleasure to him to take afrisk in the country for a month or two,and then to have the four bells in thesteeple set a jingling for joy, to summonthe inhabitants of the village, to stare atthe bride and bridegroom.And when they have been grandly enter¬tained by one cousin, to make a tour toanother, and there to have all the wel¬comes renewed again, must needs be amarvellous pleasure to them both, andmore especially to the husband, to see hiswife so carressed and made much ofamong his friends.19But perhaps, after all this great plea¬sure, there is a sad complaint that theyoung woman is not yet with child.This much redounds to the young man’sdisgrace, and is a very great damp to thepleasures of matrimony.—But hold ! not1 so fast, my friend j praj let all things beil 'well considered, and the hafe’s foot seti against the goose’s giblets, tor if there bei no children tiiere is the less charge. And? yet the pleasures of the bed are still the■I! same. They live in the constant use of;l the means, ana who can tell what maycome oi it. Rome was not built in one6 day. I doubt not but it is an allay tofj many one’s nocturnal pleasures, to thinkIupon t ie charge he is bringing upon him¬self, by satisfying a little amorous itch ;but when he had done it and done it, anddone it again, and finds there is no dan¬ger, then he falls to it without fear or wits.Besides, there isinotherconveniency, theymay live more plentifully, here are noportions to provide for children : Whenothers are forced to sell part, and some-I times all their patrimony, to provide por¬tions for their children.But all this does not satisfy the-youngwoman. She fancies there is some peculiar pleasure when a child is goiter, andshe longs to know it. And what makesher the more eager is, she is upbraidedIv her neighbours. What ! says one pra¬ting gossip, are you not ready yet, neigh¬bour ? No, nothing like it, nor towards it,as 1 know of. Lack-a.day ! cries sheagain, lhan’tbeen married thirteen months,and yet this child is a quarter old. Aye,says the young woman, with a sigh, youhave bestowed your time well : 1 havebeen married near eight months, andyet there is no sign cf any thing coming.She had scarce spoke, before another gos¬sip laid hold of the last words : How !said she, married near eight months andnothing coming ! believe me, there’s afault on one side or the other : Do youthink one of my age and complexion can•be in the fault? 1 know myself so well,that 1 will leave all the world to judgeof in* . Patience a little, cries another ofthe gang, I have known some women havenot been with child, till they have beenmanied two or three years. What! andyou would have me stay *80 long, 1 war-Ta»t you ; but I will assure 3 ou neighbouryou are mistaken. Just in the middle ofthis confabulation, in comes another, andtells them she .had been at Mrs. Breed-'well’s living* in. Howl says another, ismy neighbour Breedwell brought to-bed ?lYes, ©f a fine lusty boy* replies the other,liovr long has she been married ? says theyoung woman. About eight months re¬plies the other. Adds heartiken ! eried she,iShout eight months! Why, 1 have beenmarried so long myself, and do not knowI am yet with child.This curious debate held them a longItiaae, and had not been ended so soon,nhad not one who was somewhat wHerfchen the rest come in, and, addressingaharself to the complainant, she said.Mistress, this case is difficult, but the bestway is to receive satisfaction is to go home,and take an exact dimension of your hus¬band’s instrument, as to length and com-ti>ass, and then we may be able to form aoetter judgement; but till then we canl ay nothing positive. Another advisediier to make much of him, and nourishdm up well with yolks of eggs, oysters,rock stones, craw fish, lobsters, perri-22winkles, beef, marrow, shirrets, withsome muscadine or tent. The youngwoman heard all this ; but imagined allher cost would be thrown away, if shehad not her full measure ; and accordinglyproduced it the next time of meeting,which, as they surveyed, filled them withadmiration, which one of them expressedin this manner; neighbour, there is someother cause why you are not got withchild : if this be the right measure, I doswear jour husband is a man every inchof him, and therefore must needs tellyou that the fault is not in him. I knownot how it is, sai^l the young woman,very disconsolately, but I am sure 1 havegiven the exactest and truest measure.—But, that tiie woman might not be castdown, Come, come, said one of the goodnatured creatures, who was for forward¬ing the business, do not be cast down butuse means, and you may yet have chil¬dren enough : for 1 know a yourg marriedcouple just in your case. And, by theadvice of a worthy and learned physician,the wife was got with child very effectu¬ally. And this was the whole process ofthe business:25The doctor advised the husband to gointo the country, and stay with his uncleor a fortnight, and then return home :mt he ordered it so, that the last day'sourney might be an easy one ; and the/ife had notice of his coming she dressederself in all the gaiety she could devise ;md had a good supper of light digestion,iceady to put on the table at his arrival;xposing to his view her fine ivory neckmd lily besom bare. And three hoursifter supper she counselled him to bed,siieie to take his rest awhile. Then be¬ing both awake, he laid his hand uponne mount of Venus, and talked to her allae soft things which love cuuld dictate tojdmj and when he by such amorous dis¬burses, had wrought his spirits up to the!ghest pitch, then to fall on, and feastimself with love’s delightful daintes. Inciort, the doctor’s counsel was observedu a nicety, and the success answered theircpectations; and not themselves alone,at others too have found its efficacious■ ||fects.iNow tell me all ye enemies to Mar-ige, what pleasure can a man imagine iseater than for a man thus to give hisit .24,wife and himself a secret and mutual satis-faction.You will be apt to say, are these all thepleasures of matrimony ? I answer, No ;not one tenth part of them :—but my de¬sign is to delight, not to surfeit you.FINIS,