; | THELONG PACK;OE, THEROBBERS DISCOVERED:A SCOTTISH STOEY.BY THE ETTRICK SHEPHERD.31' fM 1 ; . >;'i r:,anr ,hos aMTfmm maaofl7aOT8 HaiTTOOa AoijaK'iaiife aoiHTTa :nn yh: W008AJ0; i.iaeaooa sht xq% (ipy/jmTHEL.ONG PACK.—••aiOl®*—! In the year 1723, Colonel Ridley returnedI tVom India, with what, in those days, wasI accounted an immense fortune, and retiredto a country seat on the banks of North! Tyne in Northumberland. The house wasrebuilt and furnished with every thing1 ele¬gant and costly; and amongst others, aservice of plate supposed to he worth £1000.He went to London annually with his family,:: during a few of the winter months, and atthese times there were hut few left at hiscountry house. At the time we treat of,there were only three domestics remainedthere; a maid servant, whose name was Alice,kept the house, and there were besides, an oldman and a boy, the one threshed the corn,and the other took care of some cattle, forthe two ploughmen were boarded in housesof their own.One afternoon as Alice was sitting spin-! ning some yarn for a pair of stockings toi herself, a pedlar entered the hall with afomical pack on his back. Alice had seen4as long a pack, and as broad a pack; buta pack equally long, broad, and thick, shedeclared she never saw. It was about themiddle of winter, when the days were short,and the nights cold, long, and wearisomeThe pedlar was a handsome, well dressed man,and very likely to be a very agreeable com¬panion for such a maid as Alice, on such anight as that; yet Alice declared, that fromthe very first she did not like him greatly,and though he introduced himself with a lit¬tle ribaldry, and a great deal of flattery in¬terlarded, yet when he came to ask a night’slodging, he met with a peremptory refusal:he jested on the subject, said he believed shewas in the right, for that it would scarcelybe safe to trust him under the same roof withsuch a sweet and beautiful creature—Alicewas an old maid, and any thing but beauti¬ful—He then took her on his knee, caressedand kissed her, but all would not do. “No,she would not consent to his staying there.”“ But are you really going to put me awayto night?” “Yes.” “Indeed, my deargirl, you must not be so unreasonable; Iam come straight from Newcastle, where Ihave been purchasing a fresh stock of goods,which are so heavy, that I cannot travelfar with them, and as the people around areall of the poorer sort, I will rather makeyou a present of the finest shawl in my pack5before I go further.” At the mentioningof the shawl, the picture of deliberation wa*pourtrayed in lively colours on Alice’s factfor a little; hut her prudence overcame.“ No, she was but a servant, and had ordersto harbour no person about the house bufsuch as came on business, nor these eitherunless she was well acquainted with them.u What the worse can you, or your master^or any one else be, of suffering me to tarrjuntil the morning?” “I entreat you donot insist, for here you cannot be.” “ Butindeed, I am not able to carry my goods'further to-night.” u Then you must leavethem or get a horse to carry them away.”(i Of all the sweet inflexible beings thatever were made, you certainly are the chief.But I cannot blame you, your resolution isjust and right. Well, well, since nobetteimay be, I must leave them, and go searchfor lodgings myself somewhere else, for,fatigued as I am, it is as much as my lifeis worth to endeavour carrying them further.”Alice was rather taken at her word: shewanted nothing to do with his goods: theman was displeased at her, and mightaccuse her of stealing some of them; butit was an alternative she had proposed, andagainst which she could start no plausibleobjection; so she consented, though withmuch reluctance.—u But the pack will be6better out of your way,” said lie, “andsafer, if you will be so kind as lock it byin some room or closet.” She then led himinto a low parlour, where he placed it care¬fully on two chairs, and went away, wishingAlice a good night.When old Alice and the pack were lefttogether in the large house by themselves,she felt a kind of undefined terror come overher mind about it. “ What can be in it”said she to herself, “that makes it so heavy ?”surely when the man carried it this length,he might have carried it farther too.—It isa confoundedly queer pack ; I’ll go andlook at it once again, and see what I thinkis in it; and suppose I should handle it allround, I may then perhaps have a goodguess what is in it.”Alice went cautiously and fearfully intothe parlour and opened a wall-press—shewanted nothing in the press, indeed shenever looked into it, for her eyes were fixedon the pack, and the longer she looked atit she liked it the worse; and as to handlingit, she would not have touched it for all thatit contained. She came again into thekitchen and conversed with herself. Shethought of the man’s earnestness to leaveit—of its monstrous shape, and every cir¬cumstance connected with it: they were allmysterious, and she was convinced in herun-<m mind, that there was somethingrnny if not unearthly in the pack.i What, surmises will not fear give rise tor the mind of a woman ! ShelightedSipulded candle, and went again into the) rlour, closed the window shutters, and' irral them ; hut before she came out, shei t herself upright, held in her breath, andSok another steady and scrutinizing look:)’ the pack. God of mercy ! She saw itlloving, as visibly as she ever saw anyiiing- in her life. Every hair on her headood upright. Every inch of flesh on herody crept like a nest of pismires. Sheasted into the kitchen as fast as she could,r her knees bent under the terror that hadfiver ivhelmed the heart of poor Alice. Sheluffed out the candle, lighted it again, andot being able to fmd a candlestic, though^ dozen stood on the shelf in the fore kitchen,lishe set it in a water-jug, and ran out to thei barn for old Richard. u Oh, for mercy,[Richard, make haste, and come into tfiehouse. Gome away, Richard.” “ Why,what is the matter Alice? what is wrong ?”“ Oh, Richard ! a pedlar came into the hallentreating for lodging. Well, I woiddnot let him stay on any account, and behold,he is gone oft’ and left his pack.” 11 Andwhat is the great matter in that?” saidRichard. u I will wager a penny he will&look after it, before it shall look after him.'u But, oh Richard, I tremble to tell youWe are all gone for it is a living pack.’u A living pack!” said Richard, staring aAlice, and letting his chops fall downRichard had just lifted his flail over his heatto begin threshing a sheaf; but when bheard of a living pack, he dropped one enc.of the hand-staff to the flour, and leaningon the other, took such a look at Alice.* He knew long before that Alice was beau¬tiful ; he knew that ten years before, buthe never took such a look at her in his life.“A living pack!” said Richard. “Whythe woman is mad without all doubt. ” 4 4 Oh,Richard ! come aw ay. Heaven knows whatis in it! but I saw it moving so plainly asI see you at present. Make haste, andcome away Richard.” Richard did not standto expostulate any longer, nor ev en to puton his coat, but followed Alice into the:house, assuring her by the way, that it was:nothing but a whim, and of a piece, withmany of her phantasies. 44 But,” addedhe, “of all the foolish ideas that ever pos¬sessed your brain, this is the most unfeasible,unnatural, and impossible. How can apack, made up of napkins, and muslins,and corduroy breeches perhaps, ever becomealive ? It is even worse than to suppose ahorse’s hair will turn an eeL” So saying,9ne lifted the candle out of the jug, andturning about, never stopped till he had laidins hand on the pack. He felt the dealsi that surrounded its edges to prevent thei goods being rumpled and spoiled by carry-: mg, the cords that bound it, and the canvassin which it was wrapped. 11 The pack waswell enough, he found nought about it thatbther packs wanted. It was just like otherpacks made up of the same stuff. He sawfought that ailed it. And a good largeipack it was. It would coast the honest man£200, if not more. It would cost him £300or £350 if the goods were fine. But hewould make it all up again by cheatingfools like Alice, with his gewgaws.” Alicentestified some little disappointment at seeing| Richard unconvinced, even by ocular proof.11 She wished she had never seen him or itihowsomever; for she was convinced there* was something mysterious about it; thatI they were stolen goods or something thatway; and she was terrified to stay m thehouse with it. But Richard assured heri the pack was a right enough pack.During this conversation, in comesi| Edward. He was a lad about sixteen years!of age, son to a coal-driver on the border‘-was possessed of a good deal of humourand ingenuity, but somewhat roguish,forward, and commonly very ragged m his10apparel. He was about this time whollyintent on shooting the crows and birds ofvarious kinds, that alighted in whole flockswhere he foddered the cattle. He hadbought a huge old military gun, which hedenominated Copenhagen, and was continu¬ally thundering away at them. He seldomkilled any, it ever; hut he once or twiceknocked ofl' a few feathers, and after muchnarrow inspection, discovered some dropsof blood on the snow. He was at this verymoment come in a great haste for Copen¬hagen, having seen a glorious chance orsparrows, and a rob in-red-breast amongthem, feeding on the site of a corn rick, huthearing them talk of something mysterious,and a living pack, he pricked up his ears,and vras all attention.—“ Faith Alice,”,said he, “if you will let me, I’ll shoot it.”u Hold your peace, you fool,” said Richard.Edward took the candle from Richard, whostill held it in his hand, and, gliding down,the passage, edged up the parlour door, andwatched tne pack attentively for about twominutes. He then came back with a springand with looks very different from thosewhich regulated his features as he wentdown. As sure as he had death to meetwith he saw it stirring. “ Hold your peace,you fool,” said Richard, Edward sworeagain that he saw it stirring; but whether11i i he really thought so, or only said so, isft hard to determine. “Faith, Alice,” saids he again, “ if you will let me, I’ll shoot it.”“I tell you to hold your peace, you fool,” said| i Richard, “ No,” said Edward, “ in the mul-f; titude of counsellors there is safety; and I willr i maintain this to be our safest plan. Ourp master’s house is consigned to our care, andjj the wealth that it contains may tempt somefj people to use stratagems. Now, if we openjj up the man’s pack, he may pursue us for dam-I ages to any amount, but if I shoot it, whath amends can he get of me ? If there is anyI thing that should not be there, Lord, how Iij will pepper it! And if it is lawful goods, heI can only make me pay for the few that arc» damaged, which I will get at valuation; so, ifnone of you will acquiesce, I will take all theblame upon myself, and ware a shot uponit.” Richard said whatever was the conse¬quence he would be blameless. A haEdelirious smile rather distorted than beauti¬fied Alice’s pretty face, but Edward took ofj or an assent to what he had been advanellir, so, snatching up Copenhagen in onehail, and the candle in the other, he hasteddovn the passage, and without hesitatingonenoiaent, fired at the pack. GraciousHeaven ! The blood gushed out upon thefour ike a torrent, and a hideous roar,iollowtd by the groans of death, issued12from the pack. Edward dropped Copen¬hagen upon the ground, and ran into thekitchen like one distracted. The kitchenwas darkish, for he had left the candle inthe parlour; so taking to the door withoutbeing able to utter a word, he ran to thehills like a wild roe, looking over eachshoulder as fast as he could turn his headfrom the one side to the other.—Alice followedas fast as she could; but lost half the wayof Edward. She was all the way sighingand crying most pitifully. Old Richardstood for a short space rather in a state ofpetrefaction, but, at length, after some hastyejaculations, he went into the parlourThe whole floor flowed with blood; thepack had thrown itself on the ground, butthe groans and cries were ceased, and onlya kind of guttural noise was heard from it.Knowing then that something must be done,he ran after his companions, and called onthem to come back. Though Edward hadescaped a good way, and was still perse¬vering on, yet, as he never took long ti>10to consider of the utility of any thing, Ju*acted from immediate impulse, he t^Iiedand came as fast back as he ha* g10116away. Alice also came homeward, but noreslowly, and crying even more bitterly Ranbefore. Edward overtook her, and wis hom¬ing on his course; but, as he passid, si*13turned away her face, and called him aimurderer. At the sound of this epithet,!\ Edward made a dead pause, and looked atAlice with a face much longer than it usedto be. He drew in his breath twice, as ifgoing to speak, but he only swallowed agreat mouthful of air, and held his peace.They were soon all three in the parlour,land in no little terror and agitation of mind,i unloosed the pack, the principal commodityof which was a stout young man, whomEdward had shot through the heart, andI thus bereaved of existence in a few minutes.I To paint the feelings, or even the appearancelof young Edward, during this scene is im--1possible; he acted little, spoke less, and(appeared in a hopeless stupor; the most ofi his employment consisted in gulping down(mouthfuls of breath, wiping nis eyes, andstaring at his associates.ilt is most generally believed, that whenEdward fired at the pack, he had not themost distant idea of shooting a man; but(seeing Alice so jealous of it, he thought the'Colonel would approve of his intrepidity,land protect him from being wronged by the)pedlar; and besides, he had never got aichance of a shot at such a large thing inihis life, and was curious to see how many(folds of the pedlar’s fine haberdashery ware,^Copenhagen would drive the drops through.14so that when the stream of blood burst Iromthe pack, accompanied with the dying groansof a human being, Edward was certainlytaken by surprise, and quite confounded;he indeed asserted, as long as he lived, thatlie saw something stirring in the pack, buthis eagerness to shoot, and his terror onseeing what he had done, which was no more |than what he might have expected, had hebeen certain he saw the pack moving, makes ]this asseveration very doubtful. They 1made all possible speed in extricating thecorse, intending, to call medical assistance,hut it wras too late; the vital spark was goneforever. “Alas!” said old Richard, heavinga deep sigh, “poor man, ’tis all over with jhim ! I wish he had lived a little longer tohave repented of this, for lie has surely diedin a bad cause. Poor man ! lie was some¬body’s son, and no doubt dear to them, andnobody can tell how small a crime this hath, tby a regular gradation, become the fruitsof.” Richard came twice across his eyes .with the sleeve of his shirt, for he stillwanted the coat; a thought of a tender1,nature shot through his heart. “ Alas, il!his parents are alive, how will their heartshear this, poor creatures !” said Richard,,weeping outright, “ poor creatures! Godpity them !”The way that he was packed up was:|! artful and curious. His knees were broughtup towards his breast, and his feet and legsi stuffed in a wooden box; another woodenI box, a size larger, and wanting the bottom,i made up the vacancy betwixt his face andknees, and there being only one fold of! canvass around this, he breathed with thegreatest freedom ; but it had undoubtedlyi been the heaving of his breast which had! caused the movement noticed by the servants.His right arm was within the box, and tohis hand was tied a cutlass, with which heI could rip himself from his confinement atonce. There were also four loaded pistolsiisecreted with him, and a silver wind-call.On coming to the pistols and cutlass,“Villain,” said old Richard, “ see what hehas here. But I should not call him■ villain,” said he again, softening his tone,“ for he is now gone to answer at that bari where no false witness, nor loquacious orator,1.1 can bias the justice of the sentence pro¬nounced on him. He is now in the truei world, and 1 am in the lidse one. We canjudge only from appearances, but thanks toi our kind Maker and Preserver, that he wasi discovered, else it is probable that none of,1 xis should have again seen the light of day.”(i These moral reflections from the mouth ofold Richard, by degrees raised the spirits ofEdward : he was bewildered in uncertainty,16and had undoubtedly given himself up forlost: but he now began to discover that hehad done a meritorious and manful action,and for the first time, since he had fired thefatal shot, v entured to speak, “ Faith it waslucky that I shot then,” said Edward; butneither of his companions answered eithergood or bad. Alice, though rather growndesperate, behaved and assisted at this bloodyallair, better than might have been expect¬ed. Edward surveyed the pistols all round,two of w hich were of curious workmanship.“ But what do you think he was going todo with all these?” saidEdw'ard. “ I thinkyou need not ask that,” answered Richard.u Faith it was a mercy that I shot afterall,” said Edward, “for if we had loosedhim out, we would have been all dead in aminute. I have given him a devil of abroadside, though. But look ye, Richard,Providence has directed me to the right spot,for I might as readily have lodged the con¬tents of Copenhagen in one of these emptyboxes.” “ It has been a deep laid scheme,”said Richard, “to murder us, and rob ourmaster’s house; there must certainly bemore concerned in it than these two.”Ideas beget ideas, often quite difibrent,and then otheis again in unspeakable grada¬tion, w hich run through and shift in the mindwith as much velocity as the streamers17around the pole in a frosty night OnRichard’s mentioning more concerned, Ed¬ward instantaneously thought of a gang ofthieves by night.—How he would break theleg of one—shoot another through the head—and scatter them like chaff before thewind. He would rather shoot one robber onhis feet or on horseback, than ten lying tiedup in packs; and then what a glorious preyof pistols he would get from the dead rascals—how he would prime and load and fireaway with perfect safety from within !—howAlice would scream, and Richard wouldpray, and all would go on with the noiseand rapidity of a windmill, and he wouldacquire everlasting fame. So high was theyoung and ardent mind of Edward wroughtup by this train of ideas, that he wras stridingup and down the floor, while Ins eyes gleamedas with a tint of madness. “ Oh ! if I hadbut plenty of guns, and nothing ado butto shoot, how I would pepper the dogs!”said he with great vehemence; to the nosmall astonishment of his two associates,who thought him gone mad. “ What canthe fool mean?” said old Richard, <£ Whatcan he ail at the dogs?” tl Oh, it is therobbers that I mean,”said Edward. “Whatrobbers, you young fool?” said Richard.”“ Why, do not you think that the pedlarwill come back at the dead of the night, to18the assistance of Ms friend, and bring plentyof help with him too,” said Edward. “ Thereis not a doubt of it,” said old Richard.“There is not a doubt of it,” said Alice,and both stood up stiff with fear and aston- Iishrnent. “Oh! merciful Heaven! what isto become of us,” said Alice again, “ Whatare we to do ?” “Let us trust in the Lord,” jsaid old Richard. “ I intend, in the first Jplace, to trust in old Copenhagen,” said |Edward, putting down the frizzel, and lmaking it spring up again with a long snap t,five or six times, “ But, good Lrird ! what jLare we thinking- about? I’ll run and gather Iin all the guns in the country.” The impulse Iof the moment was Edward’s monitor. Off Ihe ran like fire, and warn ted a few of the iColonel’s retainers, who he knew kept guns Iabout them; these again warned others, jand at eight o’clock, they had twenty-five Imen in the house, and sixteen loaded pieces, 1including Copenhagen, and the four pistols Ifound on the deceased. These were distri- |buted amongst the front windows in the Jupper stories, and the rest armed with pitch- Iforks, old swords, and cudgels, kept watch I.below. Edward had taken care to place I»himself with a comrade, at a window im-jtmediately facing the approach to the house, ji ■<<and now, backed as he was by such a strong!}party, grew quite impatient for anotherfi.19i nance with his redoubted Copenhagen. All,) nvever, remained quiet until an hour pastridnight, when it entered into his teemingi 'ain to blow the thief s silver wind-call; so,j ithout warning any of the rest, he setsi s head out at the window, and blew until1 the hills and woods around yelled theiri hoes. This alarmed the guards, as not( lowing the meaning of it; but how wereey astonished at hearing it answered byIfiother at no great distance. The state ofnxiety into which this sudden and unforeseenIrcumstance threw our armed peasants, istiore easily conceived than described. TheIte of their master’s great wealth, and evenheir own fates, wras soon to be decided, andinne but He who surveys and over-rulesnturity could tell what was to be the issue,’ivory breast heaved quicker, every breathias cut short, every gun was cocked andiointed toward the court-gate, every orb ofision was strained to discover the approach-ig foe, by the -dim light of the starryanopy, and every ear expanded to catch theistant sounds as they floated on the slow•osty breeze.1 The suspence was not of long continuance,n less than five minutes the trampling oflorses was heard, which increased as theyi pproached to the noise of thunder, and inue course, a body of men on horseback,.20according to the account given by theColonel’s people, exceeding their own num¬ber, came up at a brisk trot, and began toenter the court gate. Edward, unable to re¬strain himself any longer, fired Copenhagen,in their faces: one of the foremost dropped,,and his horse made a spring towards thehall door. This discharge was rather pre¬mature, as the wall still shielded a part ofthe gang from the windows. It wasrhowever, the watchword to all the rest, andin the course of two seconds, the whole six-1teen guns were discharged at them. Before jthe smoke dispersed they were all fled, no [„doubt greatly amazed at the reception whiefthey met with. Edward and his comraderan down stairs to see how matters stood!for it was their opinion that they had shothem every one, and that their horses ha*,taken flight at the noise, and galloped o:without them ; but the club below warml I.,protested against their opening the door ti. :day, so they were obliged to betake themselves again to their birth up stairs.Though our peasants had gathered up rlittle courage and confidence in themselve »their situation was curious, and to them 1dreadful one ; they saw and heard a part * Itheir fellow creatures moaning and expirirjin agonies in the open air, which wintensely cold, yet durst not go to administ |f21!the least relief, for fear of a surprise. Ani ihour or two after this great brush, Edwardi and his messmate descended again, and^ 'begged hard for leave to go and reconnoitrei for a few minutes, which after some disputes• was granted. They found only four men' fallen, who appeared to be all quite dead.. One of them was lying within the porch.|“ Faith,” said Edward, u here’s tin chapJthat I shot.” The other tlnee were withouti at a considerable distance from each other,i lThey durst not follow their track farther,■fas the road entered betwixt groves of trees,Tut retreated into their posts without touching5 any thing.About an hour before day, some of themi'were alarmed at hearing the sound of horsessfeet a second time, which, however, was only^indistinct and heard at considerable intervals,land nothing of them ever appeared. Notlong after this, Edward and his friend were[almost frightened out of their wits, at seeing,sas they thought, the dead man within the;gate, endeavouring to get up and escape.hjThey had seen him dead, lying surround-ied by a deluge of congealed blood, andi nothing but the ideas of ghosts and hobgob-ilins entering their brains, they were soi indiscreet as never to think of firing, butt ran and told the tale of horror to some of(I their neighbours. The sky was by this22time grown so dark, that nothing could beseen with precision, and that they all re¬mained in anxious incertitude, until theopening day discovered to them, by degrees,that the corpses were removed, and nothing ileft but large sheets of frozen blood, andthe morning’s alarms by the ghost and thenoise of horses, had been occasioned by someof the friends of the men that had fallen, jconveying them away for fear of a dis-:icovery.Next morning the news flew like fire, !and the three servants were much incommoded rby crowds of idle and officious people that:gathered about the house, some inquiring"after the smallest particulars, some begging ;to see the body that lay in the parlour, anaothers pleased themselves with poring over |the sheets of crimson ice, and tracing thedrops of blood on the road down the wood]The Colonel had no country factor, nor an)particular friend in the neighbourhood, scthe affair was not pursued with that speedwhich was requisite to the discovery of thijaccomplices, which if it had, would havljbeen productive of some very unpleasanjjcircumstances, by involving sundry respect I.able families, as it afterwards appeared bu ritoo evidently. Dr. Herbert, the physician (who attended the family occasionally, wro| oto the Colonel, bv post, concerning the affitir23;iut though he lost no time, it was the fiftht lay before he arrived. Then indeed adver-!'|isements were issued, and posted up in all: lublic places, offering rewards for a discov-ry of any person killed or wounded of late.' iUl the dead and sick within twenty miles{ere inspected by medical men, and a mostxtensive search made, but to no purpose,t tvas too late: all was secured. Someideed w ere missing, but plausible pretencesfeeing made for their absence, nothing could|e done. But certain it is, sundry of thesewere never seen any more in the country,ihough many of the neighbourhood declaredJhey were such people as nobody couldaspect. r.The body of the unfortunate man, whovas shot in the pack, lay open for inspec-ion a fortnight, but none would ever ac-ui owl edge so much as having seen him.The Colonel then caused him to be buried atBellingham, but it wras confidently reported,hat his grave was opened and his corseaken awray. In short, not one engageon this base and bold attempt wras ever dis¬covered. A constant wratch was kept byght for some time. The Colonel rewardedthe defenders of his house liberally. OldRichard remained in the family during tne-r, rest of his life and had a good salary foronly saying prayers amongst the servant*24every night Alice was married to a tobac¬conist at Hexam. Edward was made theColonel’s gamekeeper, and had a present ofa fine gold-mounted gun given him. Hismaster afterwards procured him a commis¬sion in a regiment of foot, where he sufi'eredmany misfortunes and disappointments. Hewas shot through the shoulder at the battleof Fontenoy, but recovered, and retiringon half-pay, took a small farm on the Scottishside. Kis character was that of a brave, rbut rash officer; kind, generous, and open-hearted in all situations. I have often stoodat his knee and listened with wonder and ,amasement to his stories of battles and seiges, jbut none of them ever pleased me betterthan that of the Long Pack.Alas! his fate is fast approaching to us i;dl! he hath, many years ago, submitted tothe conqueror of all mankind. His brave jheart is now a clod of the valley, and hisgray hairs recline in peace on that pillowfrom which his head shall be raised only |when time shall be no more.