nIB U S H; jrring, yet not Confan-.cd; or, t^e Church inthe Furnace, yet ftiil preferred./!In three Sermons,From Exodus, iii. I. 2.The firft preached at Lmtoun, March nth, the‘ t'v r two at Mountain in the pariih ot invercikl " -Apr 1 29 h, x ,39.By the late Reverend and LearnedMr. JOHN HUNTER,Miniuer of the Gr.fp .l in th“ affbciate Congregationat Oarefchaw.»STIRLING:PRINTED AND SOLD BT C. RANDALL.'i8<5-i.’ jfV/ ^S E R M O N I.Preached at Lintonn^ March i ith 1739.Exodus Hi. 1 2.2^civ Mofcs kept the Fir’s cf Jethro his Fatlr-Law, the priejh of hlidian and he led the Fitsto the Back Side cf the Defert, and came to /,Mountain of God even to Hcreb And the'An^of the Lord appeared unto him in a Flame cf Fircut cf the Midft cj u Bijh : and he looked mlehclo 'the Bujb bur hid with Fire, and the E::was not corf unit d.MAnifold Metaphors are made ofe of by thSpirit ot God in ihe hoiy Scriptures, to i!iuftrate and let forth the nature and properties of the church : lo in the words cf cur text, lh-gets the denomination of a t uih, -a poor cwajBran.bie-Buiti a ct picabie.like creature, that makea very liliy and mean appearance in the view cf thuverb h's the gl'rious Monarch of Heaven whenhe appeared on the Stage o rhh world, to accom>pliffr the purpofes of his Father's love rn d gracemade but . mean and ir figiufkart appearance. Farfrom antwerir.g the carnal expeflaticn rht Jews hadconceived of dim and was eftetn.ed as a tender plant,and a root ipringing cut of a tiry-i round, by the un¬believing ana blind genCra ion that then adteu theirpat a on the ftage cf life, w ho taw not the glory,the aivicity ana ravilhirg excellency of his perfon,cot eta ed undpr the rags of the human rafure : juftfo dots-tbe fpoufe cf Chrift though her robes are cfipectde-'wcrk., and ihe be all glorious w ithin : thoughihe be the iced-royal of heaven, ana has her cefcentfrom above, make but a mean, hily and contempti-Mc-irke r.ppe?T2r!cs in the view ard efreem of thofcwhom the god cf this world hns blinded. She is asli.de accounted of as a fillv BrambV-Buth, that at-trafls no man’s repard, engages no man’s obfervation.hlofes in this Chapter, is about his worldly bufi-refs: he kept the Flock of Jethro his father-in-law,and l;d his flock to the back of the defert: and,while thus employed, he is privileged with a very fin-otilar appearance of God. This may teach us, thatdiligence and aft'.vity in cur worldly bufinefs is a ve¬ry ccrnmendib'c thing, and efpccialiy when gone a-bout ivith a view and regard to the glory and com¬mand of God and that even the meaneft office in1/e is by no means degrading or drflion auring to thefaints of God : yea, many ti • es fu:h as are endea--vruring to ferve God in t'ae meaneft offices, areprivileged wit!? noble manifedations from God, amiC me times raihcLto honourable flations. Thus Mo¬les when keeping a fl ck of flieep, htes an extraor¬dinary rcvelatien from Heaven, and is called to thej cilhte cf a general and deliverer to the enflaved tribes' of if.-ael in Egypt, Thus, again, Dav'd was takenfrom following the ewes great 'with young, to fway• the feeptre of i fra el And thus Arris, who was ofthe h rumen of i ekoah, was taken from the office,to dec are the will of God to the People of Ifrael,and ceno.r ce his juigmen’s agdnfl: the kings court;'at Smv.ria.Moles af er he had fojourned forty years is the. lard c.i hi dian, and dntri g that time, employed hlm-fdf in tending the flecks of his father-in-law ishon- |cured with a-v ifion. The angel of the Lord appeared }to him in a flame of fire, cut of the mid ft of a bulh:And he looked, and, beho.d, the tufh bu ned withfire, and the hufh was.not con utried In which vi-lion this heiy rnan gets a clear emblematical repre-fenration' oi the Church, cf Chrift in Egypt, and ofthe wihftri els c mdnion and iituaiiou of the Churcil 1oi Chrift to the end of Time,Et-fore I ro farther, you mny rra^ilr afk meswho was this Moles.' that is privilege 1 wi h this ex¬traordinary appear a rce of God ? I a ’Aver,' he w’zsia very great and brighr rr.an who bears a v* ry con-.tfldeial'le charafier in the iacrecl writin -s. He wasin many thi- g*f a noble and iiluftr: >us Type of ouril^ord Jefu- Chrilt N'o fooner is Mofts born, thanPharaoh purfues 1dm to a be away his life, as is p'ainfrom the bloody Edici p iTed hy him. for cutting oft"the n’a:e children < f Ifrad. So, •. floon as the Lordof glory appeared in cur world, wicked Hero . pur-fuer* him for his ife. A??ir, rs hides was obligedto flev !■ r his life to the lard of Midian fo the Lord l|Trfu’s Chril!, wlten but a very joung ch.iid is forcedto flee to the land of Egypt, for pref rvation fromthe hards of bloody Herod Again, M fes ran thejri-'qae cf 1 is life in delivering one or kk.fcnen f omdfa.h; fo our Lord rot only ran the rilque of hislife t tr even l<;fl the fame, in refeuing his peoplefrom their fp’ itual t nemi"s Again, Mofes addedthe part of a Shepherd for a confiderablfi part of. hislife: io our Lord Wus Chrift is by God the Fatherconititute a fhepherd and acts the p. rt of one tothe fh eep of hi^ pafture, and will do lb till all hisleft flock be brought home to glory. Again, h ofeswas a redeemer, in faving of poor enflaved Itrael,2nd ranloming them from the fad and fo.'a bondageth-y groaned under, by the tyranny o f the Egyptiantafk maflerS. and their barbarous prince, ami in lea¬ding them thro' the Red Sea a.rd wildernels, to theborders of the goodly land cf Canaan ; f~> our ! ordJeluS Chrdl, a greater than M de.s, ddivert hisper pie from l rj, Satan, a; ct ah their othewlpiritualicneriies-, and. under a f.fc convoy, i< a Is them thro’all the lira ts'ar.d difficulties ar;! troubles they can ne ex-poled to, in this wdre and hovvli g wikerneis, untoth’ heivenly c-anaan, that lies c the other fl ic the• Jordan of -'jtath Again, as Mofes was the man towhom the children of lirael always applied ihemfelves!ft their drubts and difficuh es ; fh is onr Lord Jefusappointed a counle'lor . ^nd all uho ^anf their fpi*n’fual doubts ’-eiolved, and then fpiritua! grievtrcesredrefled, mud apply unto him Ml things wh .tfo-ever ye (hall alk in prayer, t - s Chrift, believing yeIhab receive Math xxi 22 ! hi: is my belovedFon in whom 1 am wel plealed : Hear ye him AsPharaoh commanded the Egyptians, when in wantof corn, to go to J .frph, f > his the duty of all un¬der all tlv-ir wants and preffures to app y unto theLord jefus C n lit H is appr infed H aven’s trudee,to let out ail 1. flings upon hnners • and I can allureyo i, th'.i who; twr of you (hall b taith, apply un-t 01 v f )irlui-l jnh ph, what ev-r your wants andn^c flitjes be. yc Itvll undoubtedly get thema'l fup-phed Whatev r your or evances are, come to Je^fti ar d, von ihall < et them all redreifed M is laidhere, that M :!es led his flock to he backfide of rheteiert. ,nu >p tliis he is remarkably a type of ChFiff ;i r ' e le -ds his perp'e to the defert of com ichonard hundl ation. You ie.din Afts ii. that he hdtia.ee thou and perf ns o this defert in one day, andupon ;h . ;r cohii-g ihei e. hd them a’>fo t. mounth'on where thev : ot a ditcovery : f Jefus Chrift. asthii- cni*. '/.stour. Aeai• , M I s c.<me to Hor»b#the nsountain of (Jo**. .-'A herein may ve fa ', Washe in that typical of Chrift r Horeband bin i are butone mourn, ion.e writers are of opinion, that theyare two tops of one and the fame, mountain Umothis mountain Mofts came. Lv n fa rur Lo'd Jtfusthrift came o ntouot Sinai and there took uponhim all treir curfes thr.t were pronounced from thatb ack o Ouiitain, and here all the wrath and punifti-nttm ih.r law and Juitice (tVreatned in the roomar c uea.l of his pei (le O firs, you that perhapsjiili now are Icorched with rhe flery fl tlm's ti.at flief-itr. f om mount Sinai come to Jcius and you Ihallget theft qi7*i,ch - i by his blood. •13 uttoMofts, I iaid hph"!,--■er«/f an emV)lerr>al'cr!l reprffentation of outward Cor dm in: of the Cl\urcb ef Chrift in Egvpt, in a very ftrangeand extraoruinary manmr, namely a Bufli burnin?,and yet not confumed In fhis he got to him rep e-fented the melancholy and deplorable iirimion of thechildren of Ifrael in Egypt, while they were grie-voully opprefTed and born clown by tyrannical taflc-mafters 'here. I ho’ they were, in a manner, burntin the fire, and all means were ufed to bear themdown, and root them out, yet they were not con-fumed; the more tbev were opprofled, the more theyjrrew. Their fore afiiiclion proved medicines unto,them, and, by the bieiilag of God, were means oftheir growth and improvement.In the words read in your bearing we may verybriefly notice thel'e five things following.1. We have an emblematical reprefentaticn of thechurch of Chriit. BthblJ a B.;'h burning—Gerethe church of Chrift is ccx pared to a Bufh^ As aBufii is a mean. low, filly, and inugnitjeant thing.2. We have the ordinary ftate and circumflancpsof the church, and that is"'a Buflu burnt, with fite.The cbu;ch of Chrift is, fer moft part in il.nws,either an inward flame railed by the old Man tlmtdwells in her members, or an outw rd flame railedby hell and earth, ’fis fomewhat flrarge th t theLot and condition of the Lords people, while in'their militant circumlbnces, ordered by their Lordand King, fbouid be fiery trials arci a hot burningfurnace. Whatever their fla.e and condition be,whatever fun-fhine cf prr.fperity they may be ut der,at times, yet, for the moft parr, they arc in the fur¬nace. Their Lot is chequered with troubles andtrials; their circumflances are mixed with fieryflame and furnace3. We have prote£Kng mercy coming into themidfl of the Bufli. No iopner is the fire kindled inthe Bulb, but mercy leaps out of ‘-be *»<*«r.t or Godinto.IpjcUtfilercof> What the mauer what thyfcrifsce 0 believer when rucb goo3 cpmftany nsmercy-. pre' rving a d pro efting mcrcv, is w’uixth^e i b> affur d, ihu h \ fh u a~t iq the fur-rare, prciervins mercy b ars h e campan/. Ihetli ee children afford us a noble in(Ta ceofthis. Theywere no fooner call: into 'he burning fiery furnace,but one like unto the Ion ot Gcd, bears them com¬pany. When they came out cf h.* fire not onehair of th:ir head (the mdft comhufti . U thing aboutthem) was either finged or 1 u t If m-rev, O be¬liever, be in the liulh no muter though hel ’s fumeswere in it too4 We have the greatnefs cf ihe fight intimate bythis word, behold. Behold; a-Bulh burned, andv as-not ccnlum -d Is it not a great fight to fee a,conibut ib'“ duth, green and Belli in the rnidft ofa bur. ing fi ry furnace ? is it not a great fight tofee toe chmch of Chrift all in a flame, and yet walk-in.:, Vkt the the three eh likll* f I1, j in the midft tlvereof.without thh im? Let hell and earth raifethe, ho t tl.pet fixation they can, yet the church ofCnriit wi)i look as fafe it; the flames as the threenoble Jews did, when in the burning fiery furnace.Wh ■ t > ; f. c vale her King will never leave her*nor f nf.kc her. She colt him too much to caftI:* r cdt or iejr«ft her, nctv. ithfiandmg all her faultsand'fold: s. lie wi l never for Jake, his poor Bulh,i. And laid y We h. ve the beholder of this greatfight He is cal ed Moles He •.•as a typical Spec¬tator of this typical rrprr fenU'ion. Mofes beheldthe burning (kith with much alTcclionate concern vthis is intimate in iiis turning a fide to bthold it.- SoJ'ttui Oldrill beholds hi^ Buhi whhan endeared con¬cern When he law her like to be burnt un withthe Raai'es of law and juftice, he came and quenchedtiie fame with the purple hr earns- of his own blelf-td b:ood. Juftice had a debt-bond upon the Bulh,and earn, lily craved the payment of the fame. Sothe Lord Ciirift, btcaufs no payatexit but that c£ib'c-oc^ would do the hufinefs, ftied his 'iwn blood fr?clearin, the debt. When the knife cf law and jr f-tire was juft eoins? to cut the threat of the ekftworld, Cbrift himftlf was the true ram that wascaught in the thickets of juflice, and fo, by his fa-ciifice, div rted the impending blow from lightingon the poor Sinner Thus, firs, the Lord beholdshis Bufli with an affectionate concern: yea, won¬ders at her as Mofes did And well may Men andJtngels wonder, when the Lord of Glory IdpTe fwonders at her, 'And ^ indeed, if the f'on of Goddid not beheld her with tins endeared concern, fhewould be fw'Uowf'd and burnt up in tlie fl meThe words being' thus fhcnly divided and ex-plrii ed, the dcCirine natively arifing from them isthis, viz.Dcch ; hat as a fiery furnace, and a devouring** iTme is the ore-inny lot cf the C n.rth of Ci.t ill,1 “ fo prtferving mercy ’is her* allcvaree, fn m 1 erj tc I erd and head even in this fituation. He! old, h re .“ is a great wonder, a Buih burnstg, jet not ccn-fijxred.The elrCirire yen fee is ermrdex ; and the’ itn ipl't well bf fplit into two propel'tiers, yer 1 chinera‘l er to fenfire it to ere to fate time :n tin rrc-i if cm or theieef Now tho’the text rffetds I’ficientpreoffer the deCljire/ jet to ccrfirir yt ur fiitli ,in a n atter lj*nt is ca'cu’ate fo much fer the fai:hand con fert cf the herd’s people. I will name twoplan s cf fcrip'ure that v hi fet it in a clear and ccn-1 vir cirg lit ht into us. The firfi is, Ua. xhii 2*i v 1 en il.on pifi?if thro’ the v at.ers, I v il! be withI thee: art. tire’ tie iners, they fi all rot rver-flew thee : v) fn tleu watkef; thro’ ’he tre tl cu«« fl ah. not be burnt, ntifh»r (hall the fl-mes kindle“up<n thef ! he tp.eakf r rrd prerrifer here is the!,great Jehovah : the owfur and p cfervar of his poor| e'efpic. ble 1 ufh. And confider ng the lu'bjeCt n.at-iter cf the premife, we may well lay it n.ufi: be ar \ 9 tiflaaie, a fire hct^er than hell, "that can harm thechurch of Chrfft Why fo ? The L jrd is whh her»I wiil be with thee Can any thing harm a perloiitv.hrn the Almighty is with him ? barely no. Ano-Jth-r fcriptare, affording a di ect of the dac-*(trine, yoo nave in lu xxvii 3. “ I tiie Lord do“ keep u, I will vvatir i: every mame.it •, Lff any“ hurt it, I will keep it night a id day J It vill bea hot flipie the w.ters of the hoiy tphit will notquench O firs, there is a rivnj^that run' into ttmLiilh of Chrii'r, that would qumca hell’s flumes, iflit Atere pofiio'e they could fidze it fl) ! what is theflame this river will not qumch ? If a drop of it couldrout fall into hell, ail its tii nes wou.]d b? immediate y1 qu ached, i’he poor flu fit w ould be dtdroyed, didnot the river of God run thro it Ihe Lord wiilkeep it; left any hutit, he v. hi keep it night and1 day. rival is a lli'ct guard indeed ’lisas if he! had faid, 1 the owner, 1-tiie buyer and purchafer of1 this g.crious Buih, am fo much in love with it, amlo much concerned for its faflty ^an^prefervation,that I vyi 1 fee t j it, l will pu t 1ft and defend it, dafand nigh., from ail harms andHaogers. What rea^* fon have you to fear, believer,»what the fiumce cr^you aie thrown into, when the Lord iuperkitends andguards thee ? Iruly, fiy» the believer, I,am not a-fraid of a foe in hell; for my head °nd hufb ind is inyconftmt guard and p'oteftor. I’he bdiever maymake a fuppofi ion that can never take place •, hell’sflame., tho' he were in them, would be to him whatJN'ebuchadnezz ir’s fiery furnace was to th* three heroicJews. 1’hcy would no! butt n jrharm him in the leaftj. one in the iromof God, ; i d vhoth.nks it m robberyL) be equal with Goi wou d bear him company, anabring him out (afe and tound.In the profeca ion . f the dcuftiue, I 'iaall end.a-v. ur 10 do tlii following thingsl 1 ihali lhew why the ch .rc't of Chrift, in thisreprefentation, coqrpared to a ilufiv.II Whr to a burningthatendang’iBufli.lil Shtto what are theie fiaiiesthe liufh.IV Di{cnver how it comes to paTs that the church Iof Chrill v hen in furli a fituatioR is preierved.V Manifeit how it is that our Lord je'us Chritijlbeho'ds this Bufii with fuch care and concernVI And lafrly, apply tiie whole.I return to the firfi: thing propofed, namely, to:ffcew why the church of Cluift is c >ir.pared in thisemblematical repreuntation, to a Biidi Ard,upon this head, I {hall mention theft ten particularsfollowing.I hen, Ss a IJufii is that which fpringeth fromfeme feed or other, in a fuitablends to its naturejuft fo to the church cf Chrif't, this colleclive bodyof believers, and evtry irdividcal branch thereof,are begotten by the vverd cf grace, tience lays thApoftle Peter, i Epift Ci'.ap i v 23. ‘ Ye are<l brrn again, rot of corruptible feed, but cf inco-ruptihic, by the word of tied which liveth and a-fcicleth for ever” There is not a twig, the iesfi be¬liever in this bleffed I'ulh, but what mull be a newborn creature of the feed cf grace the word cf truth,the gofpel of our fdvaticr. I own ’tia a greatmyftery what irfiuence or concurrence the faiih cfthe word cf piomife has, thro’ the operating virtueof the holy Ghojl, in producing a new creature inthe foul cf a {Inner. i his to caunal men appears afanciful whim exceeding the belief a rat tonal mani; Bur, will you net believe it, bee. me you cannotcomprehend it ? at this . ate, O irun, you may de-| jjy ail tnyfteries cf nature, and much more thole of•grace, becauf’e year lhaliow region k not able toform fu table and adequate notions and conceptionscf them. Bm, are there no mjftetics in tpiruudthings, becauie you cannot comprehend them t lureiyI there are tho’ you iliould retrain eternai'y bl nd, and\;the l.caks of i^norjance remain for ever on your eyesThers many myfteries in nature that you krKas little of as this we are prefrntly talking about, yst'iyou genera-!y be'ieve them and Iitrely the one de-jmands as (Iroag and fir s faith as the other On !j Crv to the Lord for the the teaching of his Ipirit thatihe may unfold unto you the myllerjes of his grace,j There is not a child, firs, born into the world ofgrace, but whit mail and will be born after thisi manner, there mud he a word of grace dro»pi into the; child’s heart, in a way rentable to its nature and ca-: p city, which, by the concurring influence of the1 holy Spirit, wid produce a new creature. And th:si word cf promife is the feed out of which the newi man proceeds, jufl as a grain of fetd grows in youri fields or gardens. A collective body of believers doi aH fpring ane grovr out of a word of grace. I owni indeed one word.of grace ntay be blefTed to one per-( fon, and another word.cf grace to another perfon ;; yet all thd’r words of grace are one and the fame inkind and nature, a l is' the incorruptible feeu of theword. Perhaps, believer, there is one word blefTedto thee, end another to thy neighbour : but ’tis allthe iame feed that comes from Immanuel’s land, theland of giory, whence ail the rich and free promifes,whereby the fpirit operates, derive their birth andbeingNow, firs, • xamine yourfelves, if ev.tr you wereacquainted with, cr partakers of a regeneratingwork upon your fini s, On I Man, was ever gracepowerfully implanted in thy loul ? if theu art not anew-born plant oi grace, thou doft not belong tothe ilufli of Jefus Ohnltj thou art a wild-Bra.nbleto this day Examine yourfclves my friends. Didyou never find tlie plow of the law turning up thefallow ground of your hearts. ,iml the fimd of thepromife fown there by tne fpirit of grace ? Did youever find the holy Gholt dropping grace into thyfoul; and when thy coi-fcieace wk pierced withftror.g law terrors, tlaat then a word cf gpce jgowee’Tuny Crew '•ou C^r ifand fo t your cor-r'.;t,^n yon accepted of Chrifi■ ■ nces pv.cmtu bv the fprinlcli g of the blcQti of J ifijs upon them, and thufaith, or an active reception of Chritl, was the fir]breathing cf the new creature wlhin you ? But ;muff not infill, regent ration nor bring the fuhjetftam juit now caikd to difcourfe upon.2. I he Church of Chrifi: is called or compared t«a Bulh, becaufe, as a Bull), you know has a rooon which it depends, and from which it dr;w nowrifljment, fo it is with the church of Chrilt ; 11,ihas the renowned root of J^lTe, on wh.ch (he de¬pends, and from which Ihe derives all her (pirifua,Jiourifl.ment and growth. As is evident from whaour Lord fays in John 4 “ Abide in me and I icyou, As the branch cannot bear f uh of itfeif*f except it abide in the vine : no more can ye ex-cep' ye abide in n c.” There is not the loaflbranth of the poor Buih, that can bv nature, bringforth any (piritually good fru't, unlefs it be u dtedto Jefus Chrilh the living root, from whence all|fruitfulnels does proceed. The greateft and tailed‘ ^ Cedar in this Bulb, as wed as the tneaned twig, areall obliged to the renowned root of J:fTe for theirfruufuinefs and growth, and r ot to atiy ihher ntfruitful principles of their ov/n. Chrill’s n-ytiicalbody, his be itving membrrs f-re a.valt ueig t u-pon him: bur, being the mighty Cod, he is .Tun-,dantly able to-ear them all. <\nd iu-'cec the'-cr-utch'of Chrill is w 11 born •, (he is on a i■ mrg toun a-|tion ; (lie has Jefus Cltrilh iiimfTf fo' her foutu a-,tion, and fo mud be immoveable Ixe-y th v.nuidraze'he Tulh n idi hid raze the ro t ; the onemult go before le other go Yen are bu U.irk .ools.and mad.nen thaii meddle v.j:h she B :t» or Cnriil,for Ihe fhall tirver he coniunu-.d. We chad ur-coMen and 13 vils to wrovs t!nn Seaft bdi vh £ twja iaall this Bum Poe Church can never be wren c1,l beccuie Ciirift is engaged to prelent her “ withoutJ“ fpot, or wrinkle, or any fuch thing,' u*-to *hc“ Lth^’r at the lalt day’’ The Bu!h, fi'S, is near¬ly related to Chrift, and deaily bought by him tcj.She is unired to him as a living root, and this is theproper, the foie foundation from whence all ra¬dical moiftvre and bleffi.igs flow. Ail the fpirirualbleffings, that are the property of the Church Ipringfrom this root alone if you cannot lay you are u-.rited to Jefus Chrift, you are yet fts angers to thefpiritual fap and juice that is in him If you havet o union with this blefled root, you have no com¬munion with him in the holimfs of his nature, therighteoufnels of his life, and the latisfadiion he madeto law and ju'lice for iin ; you have no intereft inhis triumphant afcer.Iion to heaven, and his preva¬lent intera fiion within the vail; and fo muft needsbe in a very difmal and lamentable fruition O firs,as you are by nature united nnto fin and Satan, loendeavour by grace to be disjoined therefrom, s .dunited to Jefus Chfiit the living and life-giving root.3. ihe Church of Ciirill is cdl d or compiled toa Bufh. Why ? Becaufe as a flulh is not onebranch but made up of many branches; fo onechurch of Chrift is not one believer, but catxfifis innsany. One branch will not moke a bu(h ; lb onebeliever will not make a body to Chrilt Thereare millions of believers go to make up Curdt'smyftical to Ly : many'branches m .ke up this cueBufii. an 1 feeing all b 1 evers a.e boa cm s of tiea,.u the fame Dull:, th s liu.uld te ci: there union,harmony and ar.!cement an o g th n;l 'v. s ’ is amvii unnatural like tuing to f.e he m tubers oi the■ 1 ‘-nie bodi c alh nfc; Iticggii with ont am -ther, when tiny are liiivin t , giaee, o .1 dtue heat; as the cxpiefh v, i ,'k'o.i.ff. ii. > v O utoat are l Janciies of t. is ilu h, , ,.ic or c. n.. man dathing again-t one amnh r,' c imd i, g i.-.wtuifeemly it is-to belio'l 1 the brurcites cdtioy n ;,,ebu.n ! ’iis true iudeed in a ftoimy wind, the i.r,.u-    • \ 7— ' ■ches united to one ?.rd the fame root, may cladiwith, and dtdh one s.qind another. So when thegrinds of temptations, affliftions, perfectitions, anddivitions bto v upon tlrs fptritua! puih, the branchess will d <h againft one another, out when the Noon¬tide ot glory comes, they will b’tter zzrcc Tnenharmony and peace ft;all fuccced all their hot dif-. put-e"- and fiery contentions, and an undiftmbeJ c. l.npoff is their mind; f ir ever.4 Ihe Chu ch of Chrift is called, or compared 'to.a Byth Why ? Becaufe a Buih is a m an andlow thing, and makes but a iiliy and infignificantappearance in t!ie world. And whit is mom dcfpi-cabie, in the eves of the. wor d, than ChrLth Church ?Oh ! She .'.ppears as a wry poor fociety on earth ;hence She is called and compared to a lame womanleaning on her beloved She can but h lf wadethere’s in her half grace half fin Further, the iscompared to a warm: 'fence our Lord fays, Fe rnot worm Jac <b vVhat. is more mean and defplca-b.edi.te than a worm ; Nobody notices th filly wormthat crawls among 'he r feet ’Fis o with be¬ll' vers, the Church of C rifi ; the carnal man doesnot think them worthy a night’s lodging in the wii-dernefs But fear not worts Jacob. You knowevery foot is ready to trample upon a worm ; andthe Fotenta'es and Monarch- of the wor d, and fuchas firm up pride aed magnificence, think their feetgood enough for treading and trampling upon theLambs of Chrib 5 and when they don’t relent it theyC..U them creatures of a ft ly wfainning fpirit. Thus[the world would devour t e poor Lambs of Chrilt,a'd trample up .m them a; io many n-alty worms un¬der tivor feet But they have a pro mil's to buoyup their hemts amiid ah the harfhips they are ex-1 poind to; jFear not worm Jacob, laid; fhe Lord.vVhy, fays the beliver, have I no reaion to fear ?Is rot every foot of cruel pride againft me ? Am fiji not treated as mire and dirt in the it reels ? “ Fear<r not worm J^.cofa for l am with thee, I will ftrength-en thee, yea, 1 will he p th; e, yea, I wi 1 uphold“ thee with the right hand of my riehteoufhets.”In. xli ro. A:id indeed, thn’ the fire be kindiedin the Bu'h, yet tlie Lord in tlie mid it of it, andnearer ?o it than the d -vou'-ing flame,5. The Church of Chrht is called cr comparedto a liuih.- Why ? Becaule a Bulk, you know, 1? ex-pofed to manifold tviidernefs trials, and ftorms—There’s hardly a wind blows, but the Bulh in thewtidernef. feels it Juit fo is it wi h the Church ofChrift. Hence fai’h the Lord, ‘ O thou afilifted* and tolled with tcmpefts and not comforted.’ Inthefe '*r rds the Lord Iperks to his Bufh ; and hebeholds her. when hus tolled and afflidlrd withtearscf compaffion. Our Loru wains his Dulh of trialsand tempefts in this vaiiey of tearsl J hn xvi 3_,.41 n the world ye lhali have tribti ation. That wasill news to the poor Bulh, but there’s a cordial tofupport her amiuft ail her ttibu'a ions <! By of good‘ cheer, I have overcame the v/orid ” Man:f«lu arithe afflictions anu tribulations that the people of Goda e expofeu unto in their militant fta.e •, they havefcarce a fair day and lexere hour sn*the whole jour¬ney they are making to the land cf reit, in the ce-leltial Palace. Stormy days and foul weather is theirgeneral lot. You hat are the branches of rhi» Bulhmay lay your acccant wi.h Itorms and tempefts inthe wildtrnefs We read of the Cliurch being com¬pared to a wompp that fl d ro the wildernds. whslftthe devil the old dragon at d ferpent, vomited floodsof error persecution and r-emli n sft-r her. th?!Sirs, the devil h tall vomtung thele flood:, at thisday, againft the flowtts of Britaih and Ireland -there s a remnant of the Lord’s chuivug in ..cot-land at this day, and the devil is pouring out 110. elsagain!! them. Many errors and de..ilions are cowIpicading VV. 1 Sfts, tho’tbe die Stdii be ii aflameyet uie Liiarl not be Ccnlumed. Abide oy this Buih.er be ruined and comirned for ever. Some wil! beready to fay, alas! I cannot abide by a Buth ail ina flame ; if that’s your Buih Moles, fare we 1 ; theback of my hand is to if j feeing this is the cafr,I’ll have nothing ado with the Buiii of Chrifr ; forthere’s nothing about tier but flames of error andperiecu ion My advice unto you is, O ce upr your quarters he e or be ruined to eternity If youi do not take up your lodging here, hel; lire will f-alyour condemnatiun to a long eterrsi’.y; and thenj you will not have (uch good company as the poorBulh. Well, man, I cannof give thee a bttter a vice( and you will think it very Itrange tp tike up yourabode in a flerv lodging. • ocu’ot not but ibme wi 1think it a paradox. Yea, but it is a heavenly oneand a true one too.6 The Chu bb of Chrift is compared to, or cal¬led a Haiti. Why i bee a u ft it is drelTd and pruned,the owner thereof .eclTs a* d prunes it, that it maynot go bgck arid wither ’ fis fo with the Churcliof ('hrift. There was never i fbcioty on earth fowell taken care of; never a plant fo well orderedand dreiT.d Of this tcu have a figurative or me¬taphorical account in the fifth Chapter of Itaiah, wh rethe prophet thus fim s, Now will 1 Gng to mywell btiove : concerning his vineyard ; my well- •t! beloved hate, a \i eyard in a very fruitful hillI** And he fenced it and gather'd cut the Honese< thereef and planted i. with die ch .ic-fl virm, and‘ built a bower-in the pvdft. lv--reotkan: ho m de awiae-prrfs therein,’ da:. V fe i and 2 O whatpains was lie at wh his vi v .: : the f jil.and givur-dof tins-h 1/ and h nve- 1 13hill. he Holy (.inottis the prune the p i: c: 1 •••■fT. r oi teds Buffi ,ri hence ■ is p;<. .fifed,' as h cb.nfortet o c me toI th- poor Lada. the J dih tl • tie was r :«dy toI burn u im— “ 1 -/id i ni the comforter, the lioiyL “ Q .01: unco you, a d he ihill gui.e you in allV “ trn.fi,” &c. in hn.I,n xlvi. 4. tic u coiled a ri-:r} the ftreams •whereof do mike ptarl the chy ofiod That is tl>e Holy Ghoft, wh > is feat both to[uench the Aimes that endanger the Bufh, and toireierve ir f om barrennefs d ftruction and def'lari->n. He hir feif is the great drelTtr of rht Buih.j\;id as he d^tfles himielf, fo he’fe: to work mi trIrclTrr?, Prophets and Apoftks ; ihefe drtfT d forI. tine. i'here mud: always b" under pruners andsrefTers for he iervice of the C'm. ch. O well ca-eJ for Audi !7. The Church of Chrift i* ca’led or compar d0 a Bufh 'V. y i Be'auie, as you know, a bu’himift b; fenc d and hedg. d about, ai.d protected thatfo i may not be trample, under fco', ar.d deltrovedpy th; v.iM be-.l!s that rang; and roam thro’, hea dds Juft fo is it with the Church of Ch hi Ne-per was a fcciety fo well fencer tw .he C urch is.»Ve kn. \r no oci -ty thr-t ba 1o ltr..n ; and impreg-■>able an hc'-ge as she C .urch», blu? has an inn. r»nd outer hedge ah-, ut her. fth .re is the in n rhedge of divine gr-.ce and ;/,ercy : the chu. cn istotked up, as it were, in the- at:r‘'bates of CJ-id,as in a ( fe. ioclotur.*. Come my people, hvt.h thel.ortl, t t r into your c' ..udders 1 hde Chan fc.-rsire the divine p-v> dbor's, wl tch f;:rro r-o her as aht'-g inclofys a gaiden i*l?e divine pronef.s,;h:t are Yea, and Amen in . ]i ift Jobs are sitw<re an imp;..gm-ble tu-dre ab ut iier, r am. 'y'thecuter hedge ct divine o» dins net* and inhitutioi s»Ihe ordinance' of Chrft, the cdfcipljt e arc go-vernmer t, which he , s Kiim in Zion, hath mftitutedio his poufe frrve for a nooie fence’ to protect thepoor Church from t.ie ilcpies of iicrefy ;-mi Irrcr.•in'* meet , rs, they that v.otil pi 1 down thishedge, a'e no h itnds titimr to Che ift or his Cf.il-d;en • 1 liey that vneer a pretence of u iveriai love• d chrr.ty, are for r-n-rving the hedg ; of gover n^m n: ai d dik plme ha- li;rrou.;ds '.he Cm r h illget no thanks irenj Chrilt i for they arc enemiesTo Vic* nnd his psoplc ar.d dc Krone lutn from Kisgover« ment, while they cake h'm vrotfe thanravihlv King, who prstf<5ts hi fu’apdts (), firs'fuch arec emies o the Cu(h, ar.d its glorious hedge.Sat.r' himfelf mu d not deny hut the Church wasfat’eJy hedged and for ced, when he fays unto theI.urd * one.mine J' b, ‘ haft thou not made a hedge!about h m, and about his houfe., and about all thudhe hath on every fide ? thou haft blcficd the workof his hands and hisfubftance is increafed in the land.*Job i to This waTinJeed- found divinity out -cfthe mouthiof Sit^n He. had a mind to give holyjob. a fruitful branch cf this Bulh, a heavy b’ow •„and he argues with Ids owner anent it As it he had1 id, I cannot reach thu branch of the Culh a biovhe is (b well guarded and hedged about.* Shall 1 gea hit of him? i tied pair, of getting it to eternity,regard he is fo we’d fenced and hedged about 1 hu.|3re the people < f Ci rift well guarded and proteitedlT'he Lord hirhielt is their kr.ee ana 1 edge ; a?therefore, they cannot mils to be tu i.dtty. tn.noall their enemies uliatever O firs (t-etc to bemong the branches cf this Bu'h, othtr-vife vou wilbr over tun bv your enemies and-he focnucedteglut their revchgef u t. re few m ejit again ft you Non?are fafe but the branches oi Cnrift’s Bulb.The Cljurch ot C.uiU is calledor comp'recVV ivy t5? ih-caui’s a ftu'.h ike this, v hidto a BothMold fi'W, b lug a thorn-Buih, as J'^me divinethink, is full of prickles ; fo that nobody can tcucii' witiicut bloody fiirger.-': juft f> is t with tinChnrc1 of Chrift ; fhe is fuil of prickles, tr> burst;d draw the b oed oi ail Inch as meddle with herI do rot meap here firs, a Chu' cli that has the ben<-fi. of civil cuabliftuneut: if that-c mid fecureChurch, then the Church of Rome, that mother c'Harlots, ard abomination of-the earth has been fecured thefe thru'aod- vea’rs bve gone ; l mean th.Church that is built on the rock CutiiT:, a coileftiv>dy of beVeirers tliafc ?.re under the ir'flnenc? nndivernment of die glorious head hnmanu h'uiftlf:teythat meddle'with this Church, Trill find her t'*. becc Jerulalem, a burdenfome flone, that will cruditem to pieces and grind them to powder. Paul in■e days of his ignorance and infatuation, tried hisade of crufhing and hurting the Bufh. He like ator fool, mifed a bloody club to level the Church ;e indicated the civil and eccleiiaftical rulers u>dfe a florm ct perfecution' aysinlt the Bufb,linking no; to leave a living fug* hi it a 1. Cut,hile he is in the hcat_of hU bloody rage a'd furylainft the Church, and g< ing v.i h a furious force tomi ard dtfiroy all the Ciirikians at D'-tr.afcu’, theivner of the Bcih furprdds him wi b an alarmingdee, ‘ Satil, Saul, svhy perfecuteft thou ? It issrd for thee to kick again ft the pricks 1’ that is toy, thou acfeft rs unwile and fooliih a part, as it Is■r .1 beat! to kick with its heels againll fnarp flakes,:ic pointed irons there's p;,k.ly vengence fur-mn-ds the fVifh of Christ : no mac will meddle ustij. but (hall come off *i:h wounded and b.o.dv hr-rrc. Ye tIn t attempt to crufii and .. ppr. fs thelliurch of CMrilt what will v; u g-t but confufson,efituition and ruin to yourieiv^s and ofsrr'ng ?Vhat got Phareo-h for meddling with this liuih,hen in his dt minions did he not meet with Jnu'tip i-J pla ues, one plague upon the back of arc. '-, r ?.nd at iaft he and hts mitfht* hod were overwhelmed|i toe re .: lea, and i n k like ie: d in the n.ighty wa¬rs Y"U think perhaps ycu arc doing God pemdr’rv:ce, when ycu arc vexing ami hmr hr : thei.nurcii of Chrift, -nd feumg all cit hr-- about her.slut be not deceived. Zion will prove a burderf uieJone to ad that tir.'dcn themfe ves whh her. ! hetione that was he wen out ot tffe mountain without’hands will fad on y' u ad., and crufh you with rc-j< cut bleu ftre krs cf-hery Jurv, in the csxxpia’m tve>i:aa oflet of men, that like plow^rs plowed up:»aI"'— ' 1 :-r-' faafHMiliiiriiiir* '  the ChurcVs beck and drew long tbf’r furrows. We!what wtJ the corifeqtience ? The Lord cut afundfthe cords of that ungodly and perfecuting crew, ve'rfes 3. 4. &x Ar’d did net a f*t nf prdatic men kind;a hr4 of p r ecm'ion againft the Church of Chrifin the late p 'rfecu'ing times in this land but \vh?made ’hev nf it > '"he Lord confounded their plot,and cu’ ofF many cf the ring leaders in the height <sjtheir furv an ! fe: t rhem to their place appoint;like {0 many Magor-MilTahibs, while they wereterror to th^mfelyh^ and,all around them; and.fendeliverance to his Church and people. And tho’ thfame ipirit feems to be reviving at this dav amona ft of corrupt khk men. vet let them take cr«Go ! will reach them with a blow, luddeaiy /hail the;be cor founded.6. I he Church of Chrifl is a fatmury B:ifh. Talcthis B.ifh rut of ilie wbrld and if will fmell like hell!there ’vru d b no*lung behind but the object of Get "abhorrence. As long as the chu'ch o? Chrid is ut!'e world, that Suuwill Ihineon the fn'’Lair." ants the-ntof But -vb >n the Bu'h is away, you vvid not havthe 1th t of .^>e gloriou- gofpd. nor that of that Stirin the heav.-ns. G h^v fooliih are *iiey that grtidg'th' chur-h :> rctldruce in this world ! O blind worldthat wi i not allow Chrift’s Built to abide among tberriwhite no; roufidcring that the hcly ie?d off,church is the (ubiLnce thereof, and preventer!judgm nts front pouring in, tike a deluge upon it !:]’o. \nd laftly. I he church cf Chrift is a cotlljBo'h. f’lio’ thV b“ but a poor btpunble Buih, ydfbe oft C itift dearer thm toe talleft cedars in Lejb.-n >u. ; uey c ’ll him but a creating wordbn Ihe colt hi n redeetn'n » blood. The Church ijfcou hi by the p ic ■ of bio >d Before the ChurcSc nrd be reu. emjd, ftie fon o( God mu ft ie betwe;7 - ttwo thh ves,; be perfect!ted-, afiLfted and at'iaft cruci : d iike a malef'Cb'r, on a curled tree, O cofthBtih ! Dear bought Church !In fhort, the Church of Chrift: is a happy foc'ety,0 happy, eternally happy will the* he, that can fay,f p.m a branch of Chrilt’s Bu'h For the 3ufh fhallbe tranfplar.ted from this earth to the foil of glory,and grow in verdant beauty and fragrant fplendorfor eevrmere. Oh ! then iet us ad, vnt'i one voice,f^y, we will be branches of the Buih : we will takeup our refi lessee with the happy Bufb, whetherpn fpeiity fertile or advcrll y frown.The other heads in the method, I cannot fo much?s touch upon at prefent •, and therefore, havingth'm to another occalxon, l fhall fliut up all with avery brief word of,APPLICATION.i. Is it fo, as has been f,id 5 then, Sirs will vouunite ’••• h this b’effe Bad), and .lit* root thereof.O be u: ited and m^rrl-d o-J fu- Chrift. and ymufhals be branches of tl.i hrpp Bufh. . Confider,that there’s rr. afety it. (■■■ •< nines, but by being a-p-*ng 'his eft npj. *.y. The •vratia ot God will !iahtJon the ■ t:d irambics of this wo ld, and confnme themko a her; but not one drop of wrath fHall'fall cnithe head of rhi* bl tic 1 Bufh laftm and elcape.Sirs., from amot-g 'he brambles that are deftine.1 tojdeftruftion umo this Bufh ttiar grows on the re-jnowned root of Jeflfe Seek to be amo-.g the treesjof rit lurouf.. i ud 'he planting of th" i>ord. ndjyo 1 (ha i trow as lo msnv widows by t'ii waterjconrles, and be fpt and flourdhing an id ft all theivi neiing V. in s tiiat nuy blow- Torn earth or hell.O be reftlefs till you be brought to Jefus. a: d u-r.it'd 'O him as the Irving and life-giving vine, fiatno,you may par. akc of ne Tap a-'d ju ce ther -cf-ndIthercby be' nni re f-u tful in every good word and<wr„k ‘and, Vca'ufr he livetb, ye may live alio Oijthou art made up tor ever if thou in rhe comniand;and call of Gcu, give thy heart to the Lord JefusIt r . |•ftftr'1*'~ ~ w* lih«ChriA:. 0 believe on him ?.nd be enriched for evei*2 is it ib as has been faid then then, O beware?wronging the Suflrs i'i.e owner will highly rcfathe leit wrong done to his blefled 3ufh. Wh||Paul, in bloody rage, was pereoring and railingflame in the Suflv there came a vo:ce unto^shHSaul, Saul, why perfecuteft thou me ? Every^ftrolthou giveft to my members, Cbrift looks upon itdone to himfelf; for they and he are myfticaliy eraIf a man were i>'. Hi cling- grivecus torTtire upon yotSon, would rot every «..ry of his pierce your retheart ? That is but a very faint refemblance oChrift’s love to believers ; for h's love is like hintft If infinite-. So that every flroke ye give his petpie, is givenTo hitnfelf, and he will relent it high!;O firs, what ails the world at the poor Bu'li tChrift ? ’ his a very harmless creature, which likan innocent limb, means and docs harm to.nobod]Indeed firs, the world cannot endure the heaven®fivour of Chrift that i5 about believer". Yc iha:|be hated of ail nun, fays Chrift, for my name’s lakdlThat's a pred'ifticn of the entertainment believe!fhail get from the men of the world, t hey (lia'.lbaud, Foe v/hat ? juft for Chrift’s name’s fake, th:|jperfumes them, and fo fhail render them difagreeable to all men, But the wodd cannot come neaChrift’s Bttih: they abhor her : fhe fmells fo wit.la favour of Chrift; about her, that the world, whic|likes nothing but the flnell of hell, hates her, anlays with the Edomites, raze, raze her put of thrland ; let not the Bu!h Itand a moment longerout; land, and hence they think they ucidd havgood and merry time of it, if once the ikdh werooted up and taken away Then w*uld thefloods of iniquities, errors, Patronage fupremacyapoltacy and tyrannical ufurpations over the Lord’heritage, and their other darlings flow amain. (foeiiih, mad and frantic peejonsj who thus thinthus " <it!‘( 23 )3. Is it ^o, ?.s ha? been fciJ : then, pray firs keepermpary with thf* Euih It is good to be near her jthere's fome crua bs to be bad from king’s children.But Tome of yon may fay, O ’ts dangerous to benear her, Jbe is a* burning all in a I'lltell you firs, a burr ing lire at a didance, appearsmore formidable than near at hand. A great divineonce fil'd, the crofs appears to be heavier at a diit :ncethan v hen \'ou behold it oil the believer’s b^k —Juft fo is it with the Bufh all in a flame. Tho’ it■may appear fonte what difeouragiag and frighrful-like at a diftance ; yet, when you more nearly in*fpect it,it wdl appear vvfih a more inviiing and ami-abl%afi>r£t Then fiis, if you are for ciioofing fio-cieties for fafety to your fouls and bodies, goodsand gear, I know no fbciety better for you to joiawith. And any thing that you lefej while in thiscompany, the proteftor of the Bulh has promifitdto repay with ten thoufand times more advantage.Uhere’s not another fociety under the.cope ofhea-ven for men to join with, recot ded in feripture, butthis alone Thou art but a dead man if thou unitenot with it. Whatever the flame in the Bufh is,’tis no great matter, feeing thou art to he fare andfecure amidft the fame. If thou feartft the lofingcf thy worldly goods and gear, I am lure thou c. nltnot lofie them more honourably than to throw themall, yea, and life itfeif too into the fLme for Chiitt’sfake. And this is the fair, tne revdy way to get allprotected and ftcured to you and yours. What isbteeme cf a 1 the perfecutors that have hzrteffcd thepeople*of God { Why, they are.aH dead and goi e.J hey, and what they had are mofitly ptrilhed fromefi the earth.; wiieVe.s the godly, and their feed,hsve been well and plentifully provider for, amidfl:ad the external'hardfhips difficufties.thcy havemet with. Again,4. And laftly, Is it fo, as hos been fitid: then, Ofcfled# ttmptet, and Eot conut-rteU btacches of tht*f( 24 )Bufh, take comfort. Why ? thy biafts will all foonbe over and joy will came in the morning. All thatthou meeteft with, O burning Bufn will effectually fcontribute to thy advantage, Yea, ail the fiery fltme’! jof whatever kind, that are in the midft of thee, lhall :promote thv good. All the winds that b:o v in thyteeth lhall ftrve to blow thee the fafter and quickerto heaven All things whether profperity or adver-fity. whether joy or gr’ef, &c. flrail advance thygrowth and improvement ; and thou (halt neverreceive any real wrong or injury from all the croffesthou art tryfied with, dence, faith the apoftieP. ul, “ We know that all things work togetner forgood to them that love God, to th n whpjOrs«> the cadled according to his purpoff” Rom viii.28 —Virus alt things without exception, ihall work_ together for tire good of the Church ; when as abunting Bulh. lire is furrounded with fire,and flames.May the Lord blefs his own word, Amen.F I N I S.