The RenownedHISTORYOF THEf SEVEN CHAMPIONSiO FCHRISTENDOM.viz.St. George of England, ] St. Dennis of France,St. James of Spam, I St. Anthony of Italy,St. Andrew of Scotland, ; andSt. David of Wales, | St. Patrick of Ireland.EPITOMIZED.Shewing their valiant exploits both by Sea and Land; ,their combating with Giants, Monfters, Lions andDragons Their Tilts and Tournaments in honourof their Miftrefles: Their overcoming Magicians andNecromancers, and putting an end to their direful, Enchantments: Their Knighthood, Chivalry and! magnificent prowefs, againft the enemies of Chrift,[ and in honour of Chriftendom, in Europe, Afia, and[ Africa. To which is added, the true manner ofI their Deaths, and how they came ro be entitled.The Seven Saints of Christendom,GLASGOW:Printed for GEORGE CALDWELL, Bock*fclkr in Pailky. 17H4.IThe Renowned HISTORYOF THESeven CHAMPIONS, &i5CHAP. I.yhe birth of St. George ; hotu he was ftolen away fr,his nurjes, and how he de}i<vered himftlf and the other j1Champions from the Cave of Ka'ijb the Enchantrefs.AFTER that this our Iflaml {firft inhabited 'Brute) began to flourilh with arts and arms,the famous city of Coventry lived the renowned Abert, Lord High Steward of England, that tookwife a lady of matchlefs beauty and virtues, who hating been long barren, at laft conceived with child, bnightly dreams jb tormented her mind (that fbe vuconceived of a dragon which fhould caufe her dealas fhe never ceas’d, but caus’d her lord by art to leawhat (liould be the meaning thereof} who condefceriIng to her defires ; accompanied only with one knigf,repaired to Kalyb, the lady of the woods, from wha-he received this myfterious Oracle :St knight return home to thy lady.Who hath brought fotth a worthy baby,A champion bold, of courage flout,Y/hofe fame fhall ring the world throughout.The Reiunxjned H’Jiory of the, fcsfc. 3Having received rkis anfwer, they fion returned, buttre he came home, his lady by lofing her own life,brought another life into the world, being deliveredof a Ion, upon whofe bread was figured a dragon, onhis right hand a blood red crofs, and on his left leg agolden garter: his name wa» given him George, andthree nurfes provided to look to him; notwithftand-ing which, he was ftolen away by the enchantrefsKalyb; which when his father upon his return found,for very grief he left his habitation, and ended hislife in a itrange country.In the mean time, §t. George grew in ftrength andbeauty, whofe noble deportment (being now grown tdman’s eftate) fo fired the heart of the enchantrefswith lull, that with all the feducement imaginable (hefought to accomplifh her defues, and to gain his af-fedlions, revealed to him of what lineage he was, andalfo gave him the command of her cave by the gift ofa filver wand, which fhe put in his hand, leading himfo a rock to behold fome trophies of her forceries, but(he entring in before him, he ftruck the rock.with hiswand, which prefently clofed, and in it this miferablewoman, where ftie ended her wretched life.St. George then like a gallant knight, releafed frpmthraldom fix worthy champions, whom this enchant-'efs Kalyb had a long time kept prifoners; viz. St;Dennis of France, St. James of Spain, St. Anthonyaf Italy, St. Andrew of Scotland, St. Patrick of Ire-and, and St. Davit) of Wales; he with them mount¬ing their (feeds, and girding on their fwords, whichalfo they found in the cave, departed forth to feek outadventures, travelling till they came to a fpaciousalain, in the midif whereof (food a brazen pillar thatlad (even feveral ways leading to it, which invitedihefe feven champions to rake each of them a diverfepath. Were wo will leave six of them to their dif¬ferent progreffcs, and relate in the fi'fi, place the ad¬ventures of our Eugliiif knight, as you may re id io(the chapter following.4cThi Rencivned Hijiory of thtCHAP. If.How St. George killed the burning Dragon in Egypt, »redeemed Sabrine the king'< daughter from death. Eihe was betrayed by Almidor the black king of Marraiand fent unto the Sultan of Ptrfa, where be remained^men years in prijon.THE valiapt St. George having left the other iucharrvpions, as you have heard, after feme ]lmonths travel, arrived within the Egyptians terri|iries, which country was at that time annoyed wifi?burning dragon, whofe hunger, if it were not evt)day appealed with the body of a true virgin, he wotsbreathe forth fuch a flench from his noftrils, as infe&tthe whole country with a horrible plague, which Mfour and twenty years together continued, tiil thpwas not one virgin left but the king’s daughter ottoand fhe ready next day to be offered up in facrificei:him, if the dragon in the mean time was not deffrited; wherefore the king her father pspclaimed, tfiwhofoever would combat with the dragon and' prefefkhis daughter’s life, in renown thereof thould have bto wife, and the crown of Egypt after his deceafi;)!which was made known to St. George by a hermiitthat country; whereupon he refolved to undertake ^adventure, and lodging with the hermit that nig:the next morning mounting his deed, he took his jc*»ey to a valley, whither the king’s daughter was lei!ing by fage matrons to be m 'de a prey to the dragq(!raws, whom our Englilh knight accoffing retunibher back to her father, promifed to kill that enemytEgypt’s health, or lofe his lite in the encounter, ifo like a bold adventruous knight, rode to the pijwhere the dragon had his reiidence.This horrible dtagon, whofe monftrous proporwiwould have afrighted any knight but only St Geos;as foon as fhc beheld him, wallowed from her hit.'©us den, and gave him a fierce aliault with her \\L:Se-ven Champions of Chrifendom. Jind tail, who nimbly avoiding her tury gave her fuch arhurft wi •: his fpear, that it fhivered into five hundredpieces; the dragon coming on atrelh, fmote him fuchi deadly blow as felled both horfe and man to theground ; when again rifing and ftepping a little back¬wards, he went under the proteftion of an orangetree, which was of fuch virtue, that no venemous thingdare approach unto it, where this valiant knight awhile refted him, and refrefhing himfelf with thejuice of one of the oranges, he again entered combatwith the dragon, after many fierce all a tilts with aneager courage doled with her, and thrult his fword upto the hilt in her belly, being penetrable in no otherplace, from whence iffued fuch abundance of purplegore as turned the grafs into vermillion colour, andthen redoubling his blows, gave her fuch another thruftunder jhe wing with his fwotd, as pierced her hearr,liver, and bone, and made her yield her life to theforce of the conquering champion, who retui ned thanksto heaven for his victory: with his good fwon’,.which was called Afcaion, he cut off the dragon'shead, and pitching it on the truncheon of his fpear;rode towards the court, expecting for his good ferviceto be moft royally entertained.At that time Atmidor, the black king of Morocco,was in earnelt fuir with king Ptolomy, for to have hisdaughter babrine in marmge, and having notice of Sf,George’s victory, fearing he would become ms rival,he intended to rub him oI his honour, and to that pur-pofe hired twelve Egyptian knights, who fet uponfir. George as howa* coming to court; but the valiantchampion fo behaved himfelf, that in a little fpace hemade their lives pay for their treichery; which Al-irndor perceiving, when be could do no otherwife ranto the court, crying, Vifloria! Vi&oria ! The ene¬my of Egypt is overthrown.This being made known to king Prolomy, St. Georgewas molt royally received by him, but far more cour-t.eoufly by his beautiful daughter Sabrine, who thenfet her aifedians fo deeply on liiin, as length of time• r '6 The Renowned Hijiory of thewould not wear it out, which ihe could not forbeateexprefs unto him, and once at fuch a time, /is the 1<pverheard by this black-moor king, whole love %derided in refpett of the Englilh knight’s, profferto forlbke her parents and idol gods, and to tra iwith him whtrefoever Fortune would guide their .ffe;1:ali which was by Almidor made known to king Flomy, who thereupon .confulting together, frameletter to the Sultan ofPerfia, in which was containhis fentence of death, and he made the melfengerscarry his own condemnation, which he very innoce^ly undertook to do; and coming to Perfia, near isSultan’s palace obferviug their monlirous idolatry, >could no longer hold, but threw down their imagsof Mahomet and Apollo, and flew thofe who offei!to vviihftand him; infomuch that the runtour tlter> ■being noifcd at the court, great forces were fent .gainll him, whom he oppofed in ftngle felf, and femany of them to the Stygian river ; but mulritut :overcoming valour, his nutneious enemies fo wear)!';his arm, that his never daunted courage was forced #yield, and let his weapon fall to the ground.There was he taken and carried before the Suitato whom he delivered Ptolemy's letter, who therejmteh enraged, commanded St, George, to be laida deep dungeon, vowing he fhouid never return the#out unlefs it were to execution; where now we mr:leave our Englilh champion, to relate the deeds of tother ftx. And firff what befel St. Dennis of FranceCHAP. III.How St. Dennis was transformed into a hart ly enehanvmulberries, and how he recovered his jhafe, and putend to the enchantment of Eglantine the king's daughter'■fbcffaly.SAINT Dennis, the worthy champion of Francafter he parted from the other fix championsthe brazen pillar, travelled till he came into the d-Seven Cbampiom of Cbriftendom* 7farf country of' Thefialy, inhabited only by wild beads,where being almoft famifhed with hunger, chanced tofeed upon the berries of a mulberry tree, which beingenchanted by magick art, in in inffant transformedhis body into the 1 kenefs of an hart (only his naturalreafon remained) in which condition he remained along time, bewailing his misfortune, till one day,/hading himfelf under the leaves of that iucklefs tifehe heard a hollow voice from the trunk thereof breatheforth thefe words, “ Worthy champion of France,“ knov/ that this tree proceeds from, fair Eglantine,“ the king’s daughtei of Thefialy, who for my pride“ was transformed into this mulberry tree; feven“ years thou rruft continue in the fhape of an hart,“ when thou /halt be re/fored by eaiing of roles',“ which being done, cut down this tree, and thereby“ fhail the enchantment be ended.”At the end of which prefixed time, his borfe, wbphad a long time left him, brought two rofes in histeeth, which St. Dennis tdok^nd ate, and immediatelyfell into a deep fleep, and upon his awaking, he foundhimfelf returned again to his foimer fhape, for whichhe returned thanks to God, and curhufly decked andtrimmed his horfe for his worthy fervice. Then tak¬ing his fword in hand, proceeded to finifh the enchant-| tnent, and with one blow cut in funder the tree, fromwhich ifTned a m-'ft beautiful damfel, of luch an ange¬lical love, as fired the French champion’s heart withaffeffion to her, and after fome parleys of love paft"be¬twixt them, they plighted their faiths to each other,and then travelled together to her father’s court, whoreceived them with unfpeakable joy and comfort-;where we will leave this champion of France to relatetehat happened to St. James the champion of Spain. - iiir*8Vhe RencwneJ Hijltry of theCHAP. IV.Ho^iv St. ’Jane: the champion of Spain, killed a wild ho,ir. India: how for the Cbrijiian religion he Jhonld ha*keen Jhot to death: and how he foie away the ''king. daughter.THE renowned Spanifh champion, in his progrein feeking out adventures, after many worthafts by him atchieved, came to the magnificen^city rJerufaiem, juft at fuch a time as Nebuzarad tlie kinthereof was going out on a royal hunting, havin'made proclamation, That whofoever flew the firft wiibeaft in the foreft, fhould have in reward a coiflet iflee) worth a thoufand fhekels of fiiver.Tltirft of honour, and hope of gain, the two fpuiithat prick men forward to worthy enterprizes, caufe:St. James to join himfelf with this honourable con;pany, yea, to outgo them in noble refolutions; fufcouring over the plain before the hunters, he caminto a fpacious foreft, where his valour quickly haan object to work upon, being a mighty wild boaglying before his mofly den, of fuch a wonderful bignefs and proportion, as is almoft incredible to declarqjbet the magnanimous champion Sr. James, nothin:daunted, couragioufly fet upon him, dealing fuch blowwith his keen falchion, that ere the reft of the compajny came in, he overcame that mooftrous boar, cuttingoff his bead, and prefenting it to the king of Jerufailent, who accordingly gave him the reward promifed;l)ut having intelligence immediately, that he wasSpsnifn chriftian, his mind was altered, that immedi jatily he condemned him to die; yet for his good fer-jvice in killing the boar, gave him leave to chufe hitown death. St. James feeing it would be no otherwife, dc-fired to be bound to a pine tree, and after aithour’s refpi'e to make his peace with heaven, to b|Ihot to death by a true virgin.But when the fame came to he put in execution, no.;Sivetr Champiant «f Cbrifttniotn. f ^©*ve nnafd could be found ihat would undertake it ;wheieupon the king commanded that lots fhould becall, which fell upon his own daughter, the beauteousCeieft'me, whofe heart w^s already fjred with the loveof the heroick champion ; and therefore on her bareknees, earneftly begged his life of her rather, whichwith much ado was granted, bnt he for ever banifliedthe land, and departing a little fpace, out of the lovehe bore to CelefHne, who had preferved his life, heventured again, difcolouring his face and hands, andremaining dumb that he m ght not be known, at laftgot an opportunity to difcover himfelf, and obtainingher confent to go along with him in the dead time ofthe night, mounted her on his ffeed (which he fhodbackward to prevent purfu^r) and after many dangersnarrowly efcaptd, at laii they happily arrived in Spain.CHAP. y.'The A&ventures of St. Anthony, St- AnTr^in, and St. Pu¬trid, the champions of Italy, Scotland,yetia Ireland.* *THE noble champion St. Anthony of Italy haring(after leaving the other fix champions) travel¬led over many hills and dales, woods and forefts, cameat laft into the country of Thiace, where upon thetop of aa high mountain flood an impregnable caftleWherein lived a terrible giant, named Blanderon, thathad over the principle gate of his caftle thefe verfesWritten ;■vWhat champion to this caftle doth repair;Here lives a giant bold within this place,W7ho pris’ners keeps feven Virgins chafte and fair,i Daughters unto the noble king of Thrace,All thofe who with this giant fierce will fight.Shall have a Virgin’s prayers day and night.Third of glory and honourable renown, fo fired th®bread of the noble champion, that he thundered at tfrteI© 'Tie Renvtvntd Hi ft ory Of tiegate with the pummel of hi* Avord as loud as Cye!opwhen they forged the armour of Achilles; the gianj-being rouzed at this tesribie noife, came running oulof the gate with a great oalr thee floufiffting about' hihead, intending with one blow to crufli in pieces thbones of St. Anthony for diffurbing him of hisTepofsbut the nimble night fo'avoided his ffrokes by flciping continually out of his reach, that the giant infhbrt fpace grew weary with brnidifhing fo unwelld; !a weapoj , which when St: Anthony perceived he lightly leaped to hi;nr and with one blow brought the gtant upon 'hi-s kneeSj which being fecorided with another of mighty force bereaved the giant of his lifefending his foul into the dark regibns, there to inhabit with grim Pluto, then thanking’God for his viftor}', he entered the caftle, where ht^wa< kindly errteftained by Rofaiinde, one of tl]e TJiiacrar> king’s daugh,ters ;’ fhe Hiewed him all rhe parities of the calile, amainongft the reff, fi;r filver fwanS fwimmtng on a greapond of wafer, were the other' fix daughters othe king of Thh.tce, whole chatHties the luftful gianattempting to violate, the„kinder deliinies (iti com;sntferation of theta')'transformed them into milkwhite fwans, to fignify theit chaliities were withoufpot and blemifh.After fome (hort repof* to ftfreOi himfelf, St. Amthony with Rofafinde p diW to the Thracian courtwhere tbey wore kindly eiitertained ; but the kin^jhearing of his daughters transformation, with greatgrief departed to the cafile, reviving there to fpendhis days with invocating his country gods, to refforihis daughters to their fhapes: whereupon St. Antbo;nv not willing to fpend his days in eafe and luxuryrefohed privar'elv to depart from thence, which beingmade known to Kofalince, /he alfo fecretly departedwith him1. , /In the mean time, the famous champion St. Andrewof Scotland, having pafled through many dangers in svale of wiiking fpirits, came wandering alfo into thiscountry of Thrace, fortune guiding his heps to theSe'vfft Champitm tf Chrijltndtn. li¬fe**: caftle wherein the Thracian king was worftiippingKis heathen gods, which he perceiving, and knowingthe caufe of his great idolatry, Sr. Andrew like a truechriitian champion, taught him the wo:(hip of theliving God ; which, when they had rightly performedon a fudden the milk-white (wans were changed intothe fliape of beautiful ladies, to the great joy of allprefent; for St. Andrew having knowledge it was St.Anthony that had flain the giant Blanderon, and howhe was departed with the lady Rofalinde, he fccretiyftoie a.vsy from the Thracian king, to feek St. An¬thony whom he greatly longed ro fee, and the king’sdaughters underifanding he was gone, travelled afterhim, whofe fudden departure caufed great forrowthroughout ail Thrace.The fix ladies having travelled many a weary mile,in a fruitlefs fcarch after St. Andrew, came at lali toan uninhabited wildernefs, fave' only with beafts andfavage monilers. where they were furprized by thirtybloody fatyrs that hauled them by the hair of theirhands, regatdlefs of their fhouts and loud foundingoutcries, intending to have ravilhed them of theirvirgin honours., but heaven, (that always favours thevirtuous) had fo ordered it, that St. Patrick, (hatmagnanimous Irirti champion, after many heroic ac¬tions by him performed, was at the fame in/fant alfoin the defart place, who beholding the inhumanity of! thole iavage creatures courageoufly fet upon them, andput them to flight, delivering thereby thofe moft ex¬cellent princeffes from death, or whar they account¬ed worfe than death, the fpotling of their virginities gwho after fotne paufe of time, being a little come tothemfelves, related to St. Patrick the occafion of theirjourney, with an account of the atchievements bothof St. Anthony and St. Andrew, as you heard beforein the beginning of this chapter, St. Patrick comfortingthem the befi he could ; like a noble knight undertookto be their condu&or in their undertakings, havinghimftlf alfo a mind to behold thofe magnanimopsknights who fownerly had been his champions of theI j; 'The Reneivtied Hijhsry of theof Kalyb, in which journey we will for a while leavi,them to relate the afttons of thefeventh and laft champion, St. XXavki of Wales.C H A P. VI.Hcno St. David the thampion of Wales hy art of may irk f.ep\- /even years in the enchanted garden of Ormondine th>Necromancer, and hovj St. George efraped out of prixJ'ok in Perfta, and redeemed the champion of Wales froKhis enchantment.WE come next to fpeak of that magnanitrious he¬ro, St. David ot Wales, whofe valiant exploits,sfnd heroic performances were nothing inferior to th*reft of the fix champions ; making the name of Chrifitendom famous in thofe nations that acknowledge nctrue God, efpecially his aflions in the Tartarian courtare not to be paffed over in filence, where his prowefigained him the honour to became the Emperor’scham-pion.. Bat upon a folemn feaft day, whereupon werekept royal tilts and tournaments in honour of the Em-iperor’s birth, it was St. David’s unlucky fortune tekill the count Palatine, being heir apparant to the Tar¬tarian crown, at which the Emperor was fo incenfed:that he would have /lain him prefently, but rhat in hO':ftouf he could not do it; whereupon he bethought'himfelf of a cleanly conveyance, which was to the en¬chanted garden upon the confines of that country, keptby a famous necromancer, named Ormondine, bindinghim by the oath of knighthood, to bring him frontthence the necromancer’s head ; all which St. Daviepromifed faithfully to perform, and with an undaunt*;ed courage went to the place, where at the entrance inwas a rock of ftone, in which was inclofed a mrflrich fword, nothing appeared outwardly but the hilt;1about the pummel thereof in letteis of gold was thusengraven :This fword cannot be pull’d forth,But by a knight from out of the north.Seven Cvaittpicns tf thrifterMt*.St. Davhi verily imagining himfelf to be this knightof the north, couragioufly affailed to pull it forth ; butno fooner was his hand on the biU, bur his fenfes wereoppreft with a fomniferous fleep, that it was impof-iible for him to awake until the enchantment was fi-nifhed, which afterwards was performed by St. Georgewhole exploits we now come to relate.Seven times had the world’s bijght eye run his an-nual courfe through the twelve figns of the Zodiac,fince Sr. George was confined in that nalty Perdanprifon, by the treachery of the king of Morocco;when by chance tumbling upon a bar of iron, he madefuch ufe of ir, that with continual labour he diggedhimfelf a paffage through the ground; till in the deadtime of the night he afcended juft in the middle of theSultan’s caurt : time and place thus favouring his de¬signs, he ceafed not to lend his altiftmg arms, to workout the reft; for hearing fome grooms in the Sultan’sliable, preparing their horfes ready to go on huntingthe next day, he >ook the bar of iron, and killed themall; which being done., he took the ftrongeft gelding,and richeft caparifons, wherewith he brively furnifiledhtmfMf; then with a chalk-ftone upon a black marblepillar, he thus wrote,Sultan farewel, for George is fled.Thy fteed is loft, thy g'ooms are dead*So fetting forward toward" the gates, he thus fa-lutes the porter, •* Porter open the gates with fpeed,■“ for George o< England is efcaped out of prifon, andf “ harh murdered all the Sultan’s grooms, which has1 “ alarmed the whole court.” The porter, ignorant' of what had happened, opened the gate for St. George,i who with a nimble pace never refted till he came with¬in the confines tf Greece, beyond the reach of the Per-i fian horfemen, who in vain purfoed after. But nowhunger again opprefled him as fharp as imprifonment'■ did before, fo that for feveral days his herfe and hei fared alike, being forced to eat thegrafs of the field.\14 <J‘b« Reno’vctteJ Hiflory tf theand to drink the water of the running tfreafl#* ; at lafrhe efyied a caflle not far off, whither he di«e&ed hiaweary fteps, defiring of a lad^ who ftood looking o-ver the walls, a meal of meat to relieve almeft a fa*miOied knight; but fhe with a curft frown bid hintbegone, or elfe his life muff pay for his prefump-rtion, her lord being a mighty giant, that with crufh-ied bones did recompenfe the lawcinefs of fuch inrrud-lers. Now, fairh St. George, by the honour of myknighthood here will L obtain my dinner, or elfe be-pcome food for crows by his accurfed band. The lady;abalhed at thefe words gave information, to the giant^who immediately came forth, of fuch a inonftrous anddeformed proportion, that he would have daunted a!courageous knight, though ftrong and luftful for anencounter; yet George (though much enfeebled byhunger) with a magnanimous refolution fet upon him^iand notwithffanding the giant was armed with a migh-flty bar of iron, the Chrifcan champion dealt him fucHblows, that in fine the giant was forced to furrendeiup his life, and the command, of the caftle into theihands of St. George.Sr. George having now finifhed his work, went in*;to the caftle to receive his wages, viz. his dinner which::he had earned, hut for fear the lady Ihould mingle!poifon in his food, he made her fiilt to tafte of everyidilh, and having hayed fome time to refrelh himfeli'and his horfe, he left the calile in keeping of the lady‘yand went on in puifuit of his travels, palling throughljthe reft of Greece and Phrygia, until he came into theiconfines of Tartary unto the enchanted garden of Or-tmondine, where he efpied a fword enclofed in the en-dchanted rock, when he no fooner put his hand interthe hih, he drew it out with much eafe, when imme-tidiately the heavens were overcaft with a thick dark-*'nefs, and the earth (hook anyi rumbled like mightyip*als of thunder, the winds blew fo impetuoufty tha«:ftrong oaks were rent in pieces by the fame, and there!the enchanted garden vanilhed away, and the championt«f Wales awaked otrt of his fleep, where he had$ir9tn Champ!ens of ChrifenJom. *5lain for fcven years. The necromancer, after he hadbriefly declared his forepaft life to Sr. George, gave amoft terrible groan and died ; whcfe head, with theenchanted fword, the Bngiifli champion gave to St.David, to carry to the Tsrtarian court, accordingto his promife, whiift he him/elf travelled towardsBarbar.y, wehre our nuife will now attend him.CHAP. VII.t-H'j-lo Si. George arrived at Tnpo]y in Barhary, fromtuhence he ft oh away Sabtine the king tf Egypt’s daugh¬ter from the bldrk moor king, and horJJ Jht ivas known to.'■■be a pure virgin by the means of two lions.THE noble St. George having, after many wearyfteps got to the kingdom of Barbary, be thoughtit vain to attempt upon Almidor by force of arms*feeing he was attended by fo many worthy knights,and yet defiring above all things to have a fight ofhis beloved Sabrine, for whofe lake he had endured folong imprrfonmeut; therefore he rtfolvtd to patchout the lioti’(| fk'm with the fox’s tail, and gain bypolicy what he could not gain by force; to this endhe exchanged his horfe, armour, and furniture with apalmer for his gown, ftaff and fcrip, and fo accoutredwent diredtly to the court, where he beheld a numberof palmers, waiting in tha gate for alms, which the■queen herfelf in perfon daily bellowed, in remem¬brance of the Englilh champion; in deftributing ofwhich, when fhe efpied this llrange palmer, remem-bring how he refembled the princely countenance of;St. George, fhe took him by the hand and Jed him a*(fide from all the company, where he foon made hirn-ifelf known to her, who wept for joy of finding him''whom the never expe&ed to fee again; and after fumeI Abort difcourfe of her health and welfare, fhe relatedIto him how her father had forced her to marry Almt-|d6r againfl her will, yet though outwardly (lie was'linked to him, yet noae but St. George enjoyed her* 5 • ^Tbt Rtnottmtd Hlfiory of theheart, far whofe love the had hitherto continued a pure;virgin, by virtue of a golden chain fteeped in tygerVblood, which Ihe wore (even- times doubled about heirneck. Then delivered ihe to him,, his-horfe and fworc:with which he had formerly encountered the burningdragon. And now my George, quoth (he, nothing re-3mains bu-t to free me from the power of my forcecihulband, which opportunity invites us unto ; he beingrwith tlie whole court rode out a hunting. St Georgq]willingly condcfcended to her motion, fealing thefamfflwith as (weet a kifs as ever Leander bellowed on Heinro; and having gotten the good will of an eunuch to gc|along with them, floring themfelves with provifionsjbeing gallantly mounted, they ported away with al;the (peed they could make, palling through diverswoods, defart and unknown places, to efcape the pur-fiiit of thofs which the black-moor king would fencafter them.Having travelled thus for feme few days togetherat laft the beautiful Saariue began to faint with hun¬ger, which made Sr. George to leave her under thifhade of a broad fpreading oak, accompanied with theeunuch, whilrt he went out in purfuit of feme prey, tcfarisfy their craving appetite'; fo it was his fortuneto kill a deer, which having cut out with his keenedged fword be brought a haunch thereof along withhim, to prefent unto his beloved lady: but a fad acci¬dent happened in his abfvnce, for two hungry lion?ranging aoout for piey, came direflly to the cakerttree, where thefe two weary 'ravtilers were rtpofinjthemfelves, who with an angry mood feized upon theeunuch, and foon buried him in their hungry entrails,then tore they his (feed in pieces, Sabrineall the whilibeholding it.’expedfing herfelf to be the next morfe"to allay their hunger; but quite contrary to her ex¬pectation with fawning geftures they came unto her.and laid their heads in her tender lap, and their quietlyfell faft afleep, at which time St. George returned,who Handing a while in amaze what to do, at lart hethrew down bis venifoo, and with his trufty fworcSi-jen Champions of Ch/ifendom. T7Afcolon, foon dispatched both the lions. Now Sa-brine, faith he, i have fuflicient proof of thy true vir¬ginity, the nature of thefe hearts being fuch, that theywill bow their heads to none but fuch as have kepttheir chartities inviolate. Therefore divine Paragon,nature’s wonder ano love’s abrtraft, doubt not but thy[fame fhould refound for love and chaftity fo far as Phoe¬bus darts his golden rays.Then drtlfed he the venifon for her which he hadbrought, and having retrertied themfelves they let for¬ward on their wonted travels, till they came into theCountry of Greece, where they foon had news of greattilts and tournaments fuddenly to be held at the Em¬peror’s court, in honour of his royal nuptials with theEmperor of China’s daughter; the fame whereof hadfummoned thither all the moll approved and magna¬nimous heroes both in Europe, Afia-and Africa, totry their manhood, ano by noble exercife of arms tomount up into honour’s thione, among the rell thefeven champions of Chrirtendom arrived there un¬known to each other, of whofe valiant afts to theircountry’s honour we come now to declare.•CHAP. VIII.Hons the fensen Champions performed ‘valiant exploits in theGrecian court; ‘where having intelligence of the great pre¬parations that were made hy the Pagans, every Championreturned to his own country for forces to vsithfand them.INfinite was the number of the knights affembled inthe Grecian court, to adventure their chance infortune’s lottery for the purchafjng of renown, butthe feven champions attained to fuch favour with theGrecian Emperor, that he appointed them to be hisown peculiar champions againft all comers, each hisfeveral day, feven days together the appointed r;mefor holding the jufts. To relate all their feveral ad-veatures4 how they foiled each one that came againli«8 ^Tbe Re^wneJ Hiflory ef thethem, would take too much time for our intended brevity; let it fuffice to know, that their provvefs was lhighls' admired by the Emperor, as (in reward of theevalour) he beftowed upon them a golden tree witjifeven branches, in the dividing whereof they Came tbe known unto each other, which f> rejoiced the’hearts, that they accounted that day as fortunate unlithem as when firft they were delivered from the thrar:dom of the enchantrefs Kalyb. But they had not lonlenjoyed the fruition of each others company when th«arrived at the Emperor’s court; an hundred heraUlIfrom an hundred feveral countries, which by the cotamand of their princes proclaimed war againif SChriftendom, in thefe words :“ We the moft puilTam Monarchs of Afia, and Africa, do by a general confent of us all, proclaij“ open war, fir* and fword, with utter oeflru&ion t|“ all the countries and kingd ms of Chnftendom, ij“ a juft revenge againft them for the injuries fuftaine** by their feven champions, defiring all the followedof Mahomet, Termagant and Apollo, in this 01“ determination tajoin wirh us and take our parts.”The Grecian Emperor being allb a Pagan, aflbeiatewith them, giving commandment to mufter up tcgreateft forces his land cotjd afford. All which whetthe Even champions underftood, to prevent thebloody purpofes, after due confideration had amongthemfelves, each one with his betrothed lady departehome into his own country, there to raife forces «withftand the common enemy: St. George into England, St. Dennis into France, S\ James into SpairSr. Anthony into Italy, St. Andrew into Scotland, S:Patrick into Ireland, and St. David into Wales; thprofpeft of whofe delightful habirations they had nrbeheld in many years before; where they were mo'royally entertained according unto their own heart'defire, each feveral prince in his common caufe contribnting the uttnoft aftiftance hs could make, appointinthe bay of Portugal for their great rendezvous ; anall with one general confcnt, nominating St. GeorgStven CfamfiMt of ChrlfttnJom. I gIto be their general, whofe valiant exploits anti hrmour-1 able performance, fhall be difcourltd of in the chap¬iter follow.CHAP. IX.\Hovj ike/e vert champions of Chriftendom arrived with alltheir troops in the bay of Portugal, where St. George maaean oration to his foldiers. The dijfention in the Paganarmy; with other things that happened.A T the appointed time the Chnftian champions,p-with each one a well approved army, met in the(bay of Portugal, the number of which conjoined to¬gether,- was about five hundred thoufand ; unto whomiSt. George, their appointed general, made this fol¬lowing oration.“ bellow foldiers and kind country men, whofe“ valour the world admires and dreads, we are now!“ g°'r'g into the field of honour and t<» the work ofi“ manhood ; the time is now at hand we have long1 “ looked and prayed for, and your work the noblefti“ in the world; pour forth therefore your ittmoftl“ forces, that ages to come may know what the lance,1 “ the ax, the fword and the bow can do in the hand“ of the valiant; fear not the numerous force of ourenemies, whofe number is rather a burden than an*' advantage unto them; but know your caufe is the" befi, the defence of the Chrittian religion, and your44 native countries, which will oppofe all their vaft“numbers. Whofotver therefore dcfiit* riches, ho-1“ nours and rewards, know that they are all to beff gotten by the overthrow of thofe tnifcreanis, who“ will fly before your valour, as flocks of flieep be-41 tore the greedy wolf.’*This foldier-like oration put fuch courage into thebreafis of the fddiers, that with a general voicethey cried out. To arms, to arms with the nagnaivmoutchampion St. George of Er,gland. In which gallant re-foiution we will leave them for a while, to relateto ’The Renowned Hijiory of thewhat happened in the armies ot the Pagans, who life;gralhr.ppers overfpreading a country, met in the lawof Hungary in fuch multitudes, that had not God frutrated their intentions, the Chriftian army had beei;but a morfel, fcarce fufficier.t for them for one mcal .ibut the Almighty-laughed their aflions to fcorn, an :by his inviiicible pswer confounded them in their owpraflices ; for being about to elefl a general, each na ition was obftinate to have their king the perfon thaWwould command in chief; and fo eager were they ithefe refolutions, that from words they fell to hlowdvwhich ended at laft in a mofl defparate fight againiheach oeher, till the ground was changed from a rervdant green to a purple hue, and each place ftrewe rwith the carcafes of dead bodies. Here might you fefa head new lopt of from the fhoulders, with a gafpinjmouth, complaining as it were for i's reparation fromthe reft of its body ; there lay an arm with a ha'ntigrafping of a fwerd, as if it would fight yet in its bondy’s defence. In another place you might behold on iwho would run away for danger, but that his legs anfb entangled in his fellows guts he cannot ftir : herlay the brains of one, there another with his moutland jaws cut away, fo that he could not complain othis own misfortunes. In fine, fuch horror and deffruction was amongft them, as would make the heart ©an enemy to relent. Thofe that remained of thibloody encounter withdrew themfelves into their owicountries, curfing the time that ever they undertoofo unlucky an enterprize, and confelfing it was in vailfor them to’attempt any thing agamfi the ChriftiansGod.It was not long ere the news of this bloody encounter came to the ears of St. George, and the refof the Clirillian champions;, who having received thiintelligence, foon raifed their armies and marched di-reflly to Barbary ag-tinft the bloody king of Moroccoto chaftife his treachery committed againfi the molrenowned Engliih chrmpioa.Seven Champions of Cbriftendcm.CHAP- X.siThe terrible battle between the Chrijliam and Moors in Bar¬bary, the great overthrow of she Pagans, and how Al-midor the black king of Morocco, was boiled to death in abrazen cauldron of had and brtmjlone-THE Chriftian army under the Conduct of the mag¬nanimous Englifli champion St. Geurge, being ar¬rived in Barbary, and with their vi&oriuus arm?' turn¬ed all into ruin wherefoevar they came; the noifethereof made Almidor’s guilty conl’cience to quake,and thereupon he raifed a mighty hoft to withffandthem, with great courage fell upon the Chriilians, fothat between them enfued a moft terrible battle, eachfide ffriving to outdo the other in vidlorii us exploits ;the Chriftians in revenge of Almidor’s treachery andto purchafe renown ; the IVLors in defence of theiriconntry, their wives and .children. Three days toge¬ther did this bloody confhft hold, the night fcareegiving them time to breath in, but before the Cun be¬gan his diurnal race, they returned their fhtngrh toa more eager encounter; horror, blood filed and a-mazement was on their fide, and death rode trium¬phant through the whole hofl ; but the valiant Sr.George (whofe courtge was never wanting at all tf-fays) being minded to put an end to the fight, ftngledout the Morocco king, betwixt whom and the Eng ifhchampion was a long and dangerous enconmer; butAlmidor not able to withfiand the mighty puif-fance of S'. George was forced to yield himfiT to hismercy, and became his prffoner, which tb ■ Moors fee¬ing, prefently would have fled to the thief city, butthe ChrilHans intercepting them, made among ft themiluch a (laughter, that not one of a hundred tfosped toi tell the lad difalter of their misfortunes.The Chriliian army then marched direft’y to,Tri-Ipoly, carrying along with them the wickid A1 nidor,;to whom (r.ofwtthlfanding his evil deferrs) upon apromile of forfaking his heathen godr, and to turn to*2 Tbt Rentnuned Hijlory of tbs■be a Chriftian, rnercy was pr ffered, which refnfiwith direful execrations againft the Chriftian religihe was boiled to death in a brazen cauldron filled wilead and brimflone; at the fight of whofe death,well Pagans as Ghriftians with a loud voice cried ocLong live St. George, the victorious championEngland, who by his valiant prowefs hath freed Babaiy from their miferable thraldom.Hereupon the Morocco peers with bended kne;came to Sr. George, proffering unto him the impericrown of Bu bary, and promiftd to bechriftned in tChriifian faith ; all which vras prefently performsby placing the crown upon his head, and abolifhirMahcmetanifm with all the fuperftitioiis rites of thfalfe prophet: whereupon a great alteration fuddenenfued Pagan temples were pulled down, and a Chrtian church ereited ; inftead of a tyrannical goverment good and wholefome laws were ordained ; peaand plenty flourifhed every where, and a general r-joicing was throughout the whole kingdom.But the heroic champions, not minding to fpetheir time in the idle bower of peace, and ro let thejarmour hang ruffing on the wall; when fo much ation was to be done in the world ; they therefore funmpned their foldiers to re-affume their courage, and 'Jput themfeives in an equipage for war. St. Georleaving the government of the land in his abfence ilfour of the principal pee’s of Morocco ; th$ whole amy marched directly ro Egypt againif king Prolomjjwho hod confederated with Almidor for fending LGeorge into Perfia.CHAP. XT.How the Chrifian: arrived in Egypt, ana what happento them there- The trugedy of the Earl of Covent1How the Egyptian king broke hi) neck, and howGeorge redeemed his iady from being burned to deatha Hakefeven champions of Ghriifendom, with theX victorious armies, being arrived in Egypt, thiSeven Cbampicnt »f Cbriftendom. 23tppofed prefentiy to have met aimed troops to wi:h-and them; but contrary to their expectation, theynd both cities, towns and villages uninhabited: they;rror of their coming ftriking fuch an amazement tof>e inhabitants, that they hid themtelves in the moftbfcure places they could find : wherefore they march-d to king Ptolemy’s court, intending firft to burnhat, and then afterwards the reft of the city into cin-(ers. But whilft they were in thefe thoughts, and be-|ig come near thereto, they were met by Pioloiny andlis chiefeft peers, all in mourning, be-ring brokenjeapons, fhivered lances, and torn ancients, with ma-iy thoufands of women and children wearing cyprefsfaves about their heads, all with one voice crying!>r mercy, and to fpare their country from utter ruin,png Ptolemy the fortmoff of them all, addieffingJtmfelf to the Chriftian champions, in th-fe words,I MOST noble knights and renowned champions,ihofe names are enrolled in the book of fame, let myiray hairs move you to pity, and my bended knees thatlever bowed to any till now, cade comp .flion in you :iut if no mercy be referved .for me, let me plead forlity tor my poor commons, who are altogether igno¬rant of the injuries offered to the Engllfb champion,ccafioned by the treachery of that wicked Almidorforking upon my eafy nature: O let me fall a facri-jee for their fafety, and ftain not your hands in theirjuiltltfs blood, but fpare them and us and we fhalllot only become your f'trvants, but forfake the belieff our faife prophets, and henceforth believe in the’hriffians God. 'This forro*. ful lamentation and requeft of king Pto-tmy, made the heart of the Englifh champion to re-• nr, fo that he not only granted mercy to the whole■ nd, but alfo life to king Ptolomv upon the conditionsefore promised ; which giacious gran; was fo welcomeoth to king and cc min ms, that all on a fuddetf theeople returned from their lurking places to their for¬mer habitations, Bmefires were made in every nlace,pe bells rang day and night, and fomucb banqueting.,r24 'The Renowntd Ihftcry of the, £3V.dancing and mafcjuing was ufcd, as exceeded that whlthe Trojans made, when Paris returned from Grteewith the conqueft of the Spaitan Quern.But this fun-fhine weather was foon overfhndov#with a cloud of forrow; for in the interim of all t|joy there arrived at the court an Euglilh knight v^ithus delivered himfelf to St. George.RENOWNED champion of England, if evei 1expefl to fee your beloved lady again, make all the h pye can unto her, who is adjudged to be burned to dela.t a Hake, for murdering the Earl of Coventry ; *!by gifts, entreaties, and allurements fought to berefther of her honour, and by luftfulads to liain hernatwith infamy, which your virtuous lady always wiLflood; but at lall he finding her alone, and renewwhis fuit, with threatning of force upon her denial; |with kind words lulled him afleep, and then (heatjlhis own poinard in his bread, which on a fudden nreavt d him of life ; for which fad the is condemneqsdie the death aforefaid. Yet this favour granted Ethat if within two years fpace a champion be found tjlfor her fake will venture his life, if he overcome jachallenger, her life fiiall be faved, but if not, then bmuff die.Thefe words ftruck a wonderful ailonilhment mforrow to all that heard them, efpeci.-.lly to king Fp.lomy who in a dtfparate mood call himfelf from Mtop of an high pinnacle and broke his neck Wh^upon St. G rorge was immediately proclaimed, andfijalter crowned king of Egypt; and then leaving ttChriftian champions, he went into England, when*combated with the Baron of Chefier, that was chrripion agiinft the lady Sabrine, whom he overcam:nibattle, to the great joy of the Englifh knight andpitbeloved Sahiine, with whom he afterwards Ipent trlire in much joy and .'elicity.