, T IIEUuu(jt](3H1^3(3]f]hbai]ENTEKTA'N'IN’GLIFE & DEATHOf the AmiableLady Jane Gray,WHOReigned only Nine Davs Q^ieen ofEngland: After which, botft Herard her Hufoand were beheadedin one day at the Tower ofLondon, for High Treason,by order of CL Mary,her Successor.FALKIRK:PRINTED BY T. JOHNSTON:I 8 I 2 .' CTi—*<—i rP SCOTLAND 'If * OF SCOTLANDBU pT E EHISTORY and MEMOIRSOF THE AIMIABLEL ADY J t N E GRAY.— 000000^,0000000—This arn:- b!e sml celebrated, thoughunf rtuuate Lid. , was very nobly de-Lcndt ' by b til parents. Her fatherwa Henry Gray, Marquis of Dorfet,wh vr as deicencled in a direct line fromSir Thom&s Gray, Knight of the G<»rter,ere:.led Marquis of Dorfet by Edward IV.who married his mother. And her mother jwas the Lady Francis Brandon, the oldeflnf he rw furviving daughters of CharlesBr i .don, Duke of S .fiblk, by Mary,* Queen D •wager i-f Fisnce, yrungeltdaughter of King Henry VII. and fillerto K; g Henry VIII Lady June veryeatiy gave aftomfltii g pr'ofs’of the preg-rarev > f her parts. Her form was ex-tremelv ; ealjng but the beauties f hermind were Hill, m re engaging. Shefeetiud, we are told, to have been bornwith thofe attrafli* ns, which feat a Sove¬reignty in the face ' f n ft beautifulperfuns ; yet was her mind endued withmore excellent charms than the attrac¬tions of her face; modefl and mild ofdifpofition, courteous of carriage, andof fuch affable deportment, as mightintitle her to the name of the Queenof Hearts, before fha was defigued forQueen over any lubjedts.Ft male acconaplifhments were pro¬bably the firfl; part of her education, andher genius appeared in the works of herneedle, and then in the beautiful char ad-ter which fire wrote, commended by allwho had feen it. She played admirablyon various inflruments of mufic, and ac¬companied them with a voice exquifitelyf^.eet in itfelf, and affLied by ail th^;graces that art could bellow.Her father, the Marquis of Dorfet,had h: feif tne tincture <■' letters, bndwas a patron .,f learned men. He hadIvv Chaplains. Harding and Aylmer,b th men of djliinguiflu d learning, v. h >ni( 4 )and under their tnftni&ions, and efpecJ-aily that of Aylmer, (he made a mollextraordinary proficiency. She fpokeand wrote her own language with peculiaraccuracy ; and it is faid, that the French,Italian, and Latin tongues, and efpeciallyGreek, were ns natural t >her as her own;Lr fire not only under!! od them perfe&ly,hut fpoke and wrote them with the grea eftfreedom. She was likewtfe verfsd in theHebrew, Chaldee, and Arabic; and ailthis while a mere child! She had alfoa fedatenefs of temper, a quLknef ofapprehenfnn, and a folidity of judgment,that enabled her not only to become themifirefs of languages, but of faiences;fo that file thought, fp ke, and reif red,upon fubje&s of. the greateft import^nue,in a manner that greatly firprifed evenmen of the befl jt*dgment and abilities.d file was in n refpeft elated by thefeextraordinary endowments, but remark¬ably mild, humble and modeft in herdemeanour.Her parents, as appears front her owntefiimony, were both < f them fomewhataiifterc in thxir be! avie'er to her; and,( 5 )<as (lie was naturally very fond tf liter::*-ture, tliat fondnefs was much heightenedas well by the feverity uf her paren^,in the feminine part of h^r education,as by the g.?ntlenefs with w'hich her tutorAylmer initrufled her in learning of an.higher kind. And when mortified an^Iconfounded by the unmerited chtdings i fof her parents, fiie returned with doublrpleafure to the left nsr of the latter, amifought in Demodiienes and Piato, whhwere her favourite auth. >rs, that delightwhich was denied her in all the otherfcenes of life, in which Ihe mingled butlittle, and feldom with any fatishdion.Her. alliance with the Crown, as wellas the great favour in which the Marqaisof D >rfether father flood with Edward VI,did, however, necefiarily bring her fomc*-times to Court; and file received parti¬cular marks of the young King’s atten¬tion, wh > was nearly of the fame agewith herfelf, and took great delight it*her convention ; but, neverthelefs, (hefeems to have continued for the moft partap lier father's feat at Broadgate, in-Leiceflerflfire, where fhe was with herf 6hiili.x’edbacki, in 1550, when the famousRoger AfeHam paid her a vilit, as wefr rt-hitnfeif. lv B- fore I went"" iiftoOe-rmsny, fa vs he, I came to Bft>6cl-. - gate in L^kelterlhire, to take my leaveoi that nohle lady, Jane Grey, to whom1 was exceedingly, much belt IJen.—Her parents, the Duke and the Dutchefs,v/ith nil the houHiold gentlemen andgentle women, were hunting in the park,I f und her in her chamber, readingthe Pkcedo of Plato in Greek, and that. with as much delight as fame gentlemenwould read a merry tale in Boceace.—After faUitation, and duty done, withmme other talk, I alked her, Why IkeJr could lofe fuch a pa lit me in the park ?Smiling, fhe ahfwered me, I know ailtheir fj’Kirt in the park is but a Jbadcvjto that I find in Plato: Alas! good folk,they n::ver felt what true pleafure meant.And how came you. Madam, quoth I,to this deep knowledge ; and what didchiefly allure you unto it, feeing notmany women, hut very Aw men, haveattained thereunto ? I w.dl tell you,laid fhe, and tell you a truth, whichperchance ycu will marvel at! One of( 7 )the greatcR. benefits that ever GODgave me, *h, that he fern me fo ihaM>. and fevere parents, and f - gentle a feh ol-maRer: For,- when I am in prefenceeither of my father or mother, whetherI fpeak, keep filence, fit. Hand, or go ;eat, drink, be merry, <r fad; be few mg,playing, dancing, or d ing any thing eife,1 mnil.do it, as it were, ia Inch weight,ineafure, and number, even fo perfecflyas GOD made the world; or elfe I amfo fharply taunted, f> cruelly threatened,yea, prefemly, f metimes, with pinches,rips, and bobs, and ether wtays, whichI will not name; for the honour I bearthem, fo without meajfure mifordered,that I think myfelf in Hell, till the timecome, that I mult go t-> Mr. Aylmer;who teachcth me fo gently, fo pleafantlv,with fuch fair allurement's to learning,that l think all the time nothing, whiiilI am with him. Ana when I am calledfrom him, I fail to weeping, becaufej whatfoever I do die, but learning,-is.fullof grief, trouble, fear, ana ,u Iv- le mifl.ik-ing unto me V And 'tuns my bonk hathbeen fo much .my pleasure; and 4)r(ingt.ti;da;:y to me more pieaiure and more,■ >■'V'( 8 )tW in refpeft of it, all other pleafbfSs,in very deed, be but trifles and troublesunto nie.” — 41 I remember, addsMr. \fchani, this talk gladly, both be-cuire it is fo worthy of memory, andb^caufe alfo it was the lafl talk that everJ i ad, and the lall time that ever I fawthat noble and worthy Lady.”Mr. A sett am was fo much delightedwith this interview with the Lady Jane,that in a letter to her, dated the- iSth. ofJanuary, 1551, be fpeaks of it in rapture,and by a beautiful apsftrcphe, addreffinghimftlf to Mr^Ayltner, felicitates him,on his having fo ingenious a fcholar.—He alG> reminded Lady jane of theGreek e pi file which fhe had promifedto write to him, an,d deiired her likewifeto write another to his friend Sturmius,that what he had faid of her whereverhe came, might be rendered credible,by fuch authentic evidence.Tnn Lady Jane was early infiru&edin the principles of the reformed religion,which theferioufly and attentively ttudied,g'nd Lr which foe was extremely zealous;7( 9 )and this, together with her :;ther excel¬lent and amiable accomplilhments, didg-eatly endear her to King Kdward.~She .vas cnee on n vifit to the PrincefsMary- at Njw-h d in Effex ; and whiHlfn ■ was there, (lie went, to take a walkwith the Lady Anne Wharton, and theyhappening to pafs by the chapel, LadyAnne made a low curtcly to the ii .ft;at which Lady Xine teftified 0 me lurprifc,and allied whether the Princefs M trywas there? Lady Anne anTwered, “ No;but I made my curtefy to him that madeus all.” —- “ Whv, repl ed Lady Jane,how can that which hath been made bythe baker, be him that made us all ?—This incident being related to thePrincefsMary, it gave her a dilltke to Lady Jane,which Ihe retained ever after.I* May, 1553, Lady J.ne w>ae marriedto Lord Guiltord Dudley, Lu'rih. fm tothe Duke of Noithumbe: iand. Theirnuptials were celebrated with great pump!and this match was ft much to the latii-fa&ion of the King, that he contributedbountifully to the expence of it from theRoyal Wardrobe. Lord Guilford DudLy( IQ )appears to have been a defervirg youngN :btemnn, and.is faid. of all ihe Dskecd N rthuaiberland’s f ns, to hive beenthe hall like his father. However, itwas a very unfortunate marriage to theLady Jane; it was brought about bythe; Daks • f Northumberland to promotehis own ambitions defigns ; which did inthe end prove fatal not only to him, outto this amiable Lady, as well as to herhufband.In what manner, and with what views,Lady Jane was appointed fuccefiof to.Kmg Edward, to the exclufi.n of thePrinceffes Mary and Elisabeth, mighthave been eafvly perceived: It is fufh-cient ta obferve, that me .was altogetheruninfluenced by any ambitious vie’.vc,and that this fettle ment of the fuecefii nwas in no refpedl agreeable to her.—Indeed, it d es not appear, that (lie wasat all confulted about it, either by herfather, who had now been f me timecreated Duke of Suffolk, or by the Dukeof Northumber’and; nor dyes fhe feemeven to have been acquaint d with ittill after the death of Edward.Thi: Duke of Northumberland endeav¬oured for fome time to keep the death ofKing Edward (which happened on iHe6th of July, 1553') fecret; but on Mondaythe tenth of July, in the forenoon, herepaired, together with the D kh ofSelf Ik, wh in: he had br light into hisviews,to Durham houfe, where L dy jonerefided with her hufband, as part of Nur-thumberland’s familv. There the Dukeof Suffolk, with much f.lemnity, explainedto his daughter the difpofuioiv the lateKing had made of his Grown by letterspatent; the clear fenfe the Privy C uincilhad of her right; and the confeut •: f theMagillrates and Citizens of London ;and, in eonclufton, himfelf and Northum¬berland fell on their knees, and paidtheir homage to her as Qjeen of England.The poor Lady, f mew h at adoniihtid attheir behaviour ;and diibourfe, bnt in tsorefpect moved by their re of no, or inthe lead; elevated bv fitch unexpectedhonours, anfwemi them; ‘ That the laws,of the kiiigd m, and natural light, land¬ing for the King’s li ters, The weuId be¬ware of burfhening her weak conferencewith a yoke which did belong to them ;i )thft (he .underll iod die infamy of thofevrho had permitted the violation of rightto gain a fceptre; that it were but tomock GOD and deride jaftice, t j fcruple..at the Healing of a {hilling, and m-t at j :the ufurpation of a Crown. Befides, |laid (he, lam not f> young, nor lb littleread in the guiles of fortune, to fufferrnyftlf to be taken by them. If {heenrich any, it is but to make them thefubjc&s of her fpoil; if ihe raife others,it is but to pleafure herfelf with theirruins; what fUe adored but yelterday,as to-day her pafttme. And if I nowpermit her to adorn and crown me, I man:to-morrow fuffer her to crufh and tear mein pieces.—But in cafe it Ihould not provefatal unto me, and that all its venom wereconfumed, if fortune fhould even give mewarrant of her conftancy, lliculd I bewell advifed to take upon me thefe thornswhich would diiactrat?, tho* not kill me,outright;- to burthen mylelf with a y< kewhich would net fad to torment me, tho’f were aiibred not to be Hrangled with it?My liberty is better than the cha:n yourrofer me, with what precious Hones f<r-■;ver it be-adorned, .or of whatf -ever gold( r*3 )it is Framed. I v.iU n;>t exchange raypp “ fir h'< noirrable and prectnus jealoii-fics; f r magnifi enr and gl rv us fettera.And if you Ibvs me'nucerely,' and in gdtdearned, you will rs^her wifh mo a fecureand quiet fortune, though mean, than anexahed condition, expofed to the wind,and followed by fome difmal fall.”All the meving eloquence of thisfpeech had no effeft either on the Dukeof Northumberland, or her father; andLady Jane was at length prevailed on,or rather compelled, by the exqortatioo*of her father, the interceffi n of hermother, the artful perfuafmns of Northum¬berland, and, above all, the earneft defiresof her hufband, whom Ihe tenderly loved,to comply with what was propofed to her.And thus, with an heavy heart, Ihe fuf-fered herfelf to be conveyed by water tothe Tower, where fhe entered with allthe Hate of a Queen, attended by theprincipal Nobility. It is remarkable,that her train* was fupparted by theDutchefs of Suffolk, her mother, in whom,if in any of this line, the right of fuccef-fLn remained; but the Dutchefs had( 14 )agreed to give up al! her pretenfions,- infav 'Ur ^ er d tirj;hter. 'V.’out fix t>’cl ckin r •!’ r Lidv jane was pru-clainit’d a-n a it'i ail due folemnity inthe c tv ; the fame day fhe .iffumed thertgd title, and proceeded to exercifefjRie atls * f vereignty. The royaltycf t! is uni rtun'te L-dv w». h'Wever,but' of lh rt durati n; f-r, on the 19thof the fame m nth the Princefs Marywas proclaimed Qyieen in Gheapiide;fo that the reign of Jane continued onlyabout nine days:—Which gave birthto the common proverb of, A nine dayswonder iThe following incident has been related,to.fli.evv the luddennefs of the revolution,which reduced Q^ieen Jane to the con¬dition of a private nerfon.—There waspne Mr. Edward Underhill, defcendedfrom a good family in Warwickfhire,who, for his fervices in the army hadbeen taken into the Band of Gent’enienPenfioners, in which lie remained duringthe reign of Edward, and was now snoutQueen Jane, to whom lie was known,and by whom he was well efleemed. -It happened, that white he was nn duty,'at the Lhiwer. his wife was brought tobed of a fon ; and at the chriiiening ofthis child, which was fixed for the 19thcf Jiilv, 1553, the D ike of SufiMk andthe Earl of Pembroke w-er$ godfathersby pr xy,and QueenJanewjiS godmother;and, as a further mark cl her favour,directed that the child fliould be namedGuilford, after her hufoand. The perfoalent to reprefent the Queen, was LadyThrockmorton, the wife of Sir NicholasThrockmorton, who, at the time Ihe leftthe Tower, in order to be prefent at theceremony, received the commands ofQijeen Jane, In a manner fuitable tothat rank, and carried them to Mr. Un-vuderhiil’s. Put, on her return to theTower, when the ceremony of chrifteningthe child was over, fhe found, to her great{.ararzement, the canopy of date removed,with all the other enfigns of royalty; andfine was informed by one of the new Offi¬cers, that her Lidy, the late Queen, wasa prifoner for high treafni, and that fhemufi attend her under the like circum-llancec.( 16 )As f'-jon as tbfe D ke -jf ff k, whotv w v^fidecf with h’S. d i>\v? • to -'•’hewad infornted th.it • *n M.-yhad been pf •claimed in G'i!capfi.jfe;’ hewent to his daughter’s apartment, and,in the fcfteft terms he co-uid, acquaintedher that matters were fo fituated, that,laying afide the Hate and dignity of aQueen, fhe muft again return to thecondition of a private pet fun. To which,with a compofed and ferene countenance,fhe made the following anfwer: “ Sir,I better brook this meflage, than myformer advancement to royalty : Out ofobedience to you and my mother, I havegrievoufly finned, and offered violenceto myfelf. Now I do willingly, and asobeying the motions of ray foul, relinquifhthe Crown, and endeavour to falve thofefaults committed by others, if at ieaft lbgreat a fault can be falved, by a willingrelinq lifhment and ingenuous acknow¬ledgment of them.”Lady Jane was now confined prifimerin the Tower; and her misfortuneswere increafcd by feeing the father < fher hufband, with all his family, andT( i7 )many cf the Nobility and Gentry, broughtprif ners to the Tower, for fupp >rtingher claim to the Crown ; and her griefmull have received great increafe, fromher father-in-law, Northumberland, beingfoon after brought to the block. • Beforethe end of the month, fhe had alfo themortification of feeing her own father,the Duke of Suffolk, in the fame circum-flances with herfelf; but her mother,the Dutchefs, not only remained exemptfrom punifhment, but had fuch an interefl1with the Queen, as to procure the Dukehis liberty on the lafl day of that month.Lady Jane, and her hufband LordGuilfifd Dudley, were, however, ftiltcontinued in confinement; and, on thethird of N vember, they were carriedfrom the Tower to Guildhall, and withArchbifh 'p Cranmer, and < thers, ar¬raigned and C"nvi<£ted of high treafonbef re Judge Morgan, who pronouncedon them fentence of death. However,the ftriclnefs of their confinement wasmitigated in December by a permiflf nto take the air in the Queen’s garden,and other little indulgences ; and it has( iB )been fuppnfed, that if Wiat’s rebellionhad not happened, the Qjeen would havefpared their lives. It is at leaf! evident,that this rebellion, in which Lady Jane'sfather had engaged, battened their deaths.The day firtt appointed for the execu¬tion of Lady Jane, was Friday the 9th otFebruary, 1554. This news fhe had longexpedled ; and the innocence of her life,as well as the misfortunes to which fhehad been hitherto expofed, rendered itthe lefs unwelcome to her. Tue Queenfent Dr. Feckanham to attend h.er, inorder to prepare her f .r death, and toendeavour to prevail on her to be recon¬ciled to the Church of Rome : And it iscertain that he was a very proper perttmfor this purpofe ; f, r he had an acute wit,a very platifible manner of fpeaking, andmuch tendernefs in his nature. LadyJane received him with great civility, andbehaved towards him u ith lb much calm-nefs and fweetneis of temper, that he couldnot help being overcome with her dill refs ;fo that either milUking, or pre ending tomillake her meaning, he procured a re-fpite of her execution till the 12th.—T( 19 )When he acquainted her with it, the tuklhim, “ That he had entirely mifender-ft , i her fenfe <>f her fituati n ; that farfrom defiring her death might he delayed,file expected and wvfned for it as theperiod - f her miferies, and her entranceinto eternal happinefs.,,-—Neither did hegain any thing upon her in regard toPopery ; for tho’ {lie heard him patiently',yet Ihe continued to the ialt lledfa'l inthe belief of the Pr teftant d'etrines.—And file anfwered his arguments “ withthat calmnefs of mind, (fays Burnet) andclearnefs of reafon, that it wvas an a(to-nifhing thing to hear fo young a perfon,of her fex and quality, look on death,fo near her, with fo little diforder, andtalk fo fenably, both ( f faith and HoUnefs,of tife Sacrament, the Scriptures, andthe aiithoritv of the Church.” Part clthe converfation between Dr. Feckcnhainand Lady Jane, was as follows.Feck. Do you not receive the bodyand blood of Chrifl in the Sacrament ctthe Lord’s Supper ?L. Jane. No furely, I do not lo be¬lieve.— I think, that at the Supper Ineither receive fie fit nor blood, but breadand w?ne: Which bread, when it isbroken, and the wine when it is drunken,pu.. ''fh me in remembrance how that formy fins the body of Chrifl was broken,and his blood fhed o the crofs; and withthat bread and wine I receive the benefitsthat came by the breaking of his body,and fhedding of his blood, for our finson the crofs.Teck. Doth notChrifl fpeak thefe words,Take, eat, this is my body P Require youany plainer words ? Doth he not fay,it is his body ?X. Jane. I grant he faith for And folie faith, I am the Vine, I am the Door ibut he is never the more the Door, northe Vine, — Doth not St. Paul fay. I/ecalletb things that are not, as thoughthey were? God forbid that I fhould fay,that I eat the very natural body and bloodof Chrill; for then either I fhould pluckaway my redemption, or elfe there weretwo bodies, ®r two Chrifts; one bodywas tormented on the crofs, and if theydid eat another body, then had he twobodies : Or, if his body were eaten,then was it not broken upon the crofs :Or, if it were broken upon the crofs,it was not eaten of his difciples.Feck. Why, is it riot as pofiible thatOhfift by his povvef could rnake his bodyboth to be eaten and broken, as to beborn of a woman without the feed ofman ; and to walk on the fea, havinga body; and other fuch like rrtirailes.as he wrought by his power only?L. Jane. Yes, verily, if Chriil wouldhave done at his fupper a miracle, hemight have'done fo; but, I rather think,he minded no work or miracle; but onlyto break his body, and fti£d his b}<x d onthe crofs for our fins. But, I pra> you,anfwer me to this one q :efi:ion',‘ Wherewa£ C '.rirt when he faid, Jake, cat, tbitIt my bedy ? Was not' he at the blewhen i.e fai l fo ? He was at that timealive, and fuffertd not till the next day.Well, what took he, but bread ? Andwhat brake he, but bread? And whatgave lie, but bread ? What he to k hebrake; and what Hfe brake, he gaie;and what he gave, that did they eat;and yet, all this while, he himfelf wasat fupptr before his difciples, of elfe theyivere deceived.Mfcr, J in ,, ^( 22 )Br.roKE the day app i ited for her erte-cuti n arrived, Lady J'.ne wri.tr thefollowing letter to her tmliappy father,who, Ihe heard, was me re difturbed withthe thoughts of being the author of herdeath, than with tbs apprehenfions ofhis own.» *“ Fattier, aliho’ it liath pleafed Goofto hallen my death by you, by wliom mylife fltould rather have been lengthened ;yet can I fo patiently take it, as I yieldGOD more hearty thanks for fhorteningmy woeful days, than if all the worldhad been given int my pelLffi n, withlife lengthened at my own will: and,albeit I am well afTured of your impatientdolors, redoubled, many ways, both inbewailing your own woe, and efpecially,as 1 hear, my unf rtunate flate; t et,my dear father, if I may without ffencerejoice in my mi (haps, me thinks in f'nisI may acc unt myfelf bi lled; that o afli-ing my hands with the innocency of rnyfa£t my g dltlefs blood may cry bef rethe Lord, AI .rcy to the inn cent: Andtho’ I mull needs tcknowledge, tint b ;gconltrained, as you well know, contin-( -3 )rally affayed, in taking the Crown uponme, I i'eejned to Cinfent, jnd thereingrtevoufly offended the Queen and herlaws; yet do I afliiredly truft, that thismy offence towards GOD, is fo muchthe lefs, in that being in fo royal an eilateas I was, mine enforced honour nevermixed with my innocent heart. Andthus, good father, I have c peried my flateto you, whofe death at hand, althoughto you perhaps it may feem right w; ful,to me there is nothing that can be morewelcome, than from this vale of miferyto afpire to that heavenly throne of alljoy and pleafure withCanisT our Saviour.In win fe ftedfaft faith, if it may be law¬ful f r the daughter fo to write to herfather, toe Loud, that hitherto hathftrc-ngthtned y u, fo continue you, thatat l-.*1 we may meet in heaven, withthe Father, Son, and H dy Gh . ft. •—Amen.”Th day finally appointed for her exe- ,cuticn. anJ her hufband, Lord Guiifo dD' dle\, was Feb, 12, 1554. It Lad burnintended to exteut • ‘'hern tovet.h r onth ‘ ... fc ffoltf at T'wer-Hhi; 'out tiieCouncil, dreading the effe^ls ol people’s( 24 )$companion for their youth, beauty, inno¬cence, and noble birth, gave orders thatfhe fhould be beheaded within the Tower,and her hulband on Tower-Hill. LordGuilford earneltly defired the Officer^,that he might take his lalt farewell of her,which they readily confented to; butLady Jane declined the interview, as (liethought the tendernefs of their partingwould overcome the fortitude of both, 'and would too much unbend their mindsfrom thatconfiancy which their approach¬ing end required of them.—She expreffedgreat tendernefs when Ihe faw her huf-band led out to execution ; but file foonrecovered herfelf, and bade him farewellfrom a window: She alfo faw his head-lefs body carried back in a cart.—Aboutan hour after the death of her hulbind^fhe was led out by the Lieutenant to afcafFold that was erected upon the green,oppofite the White Tower, attended byDr. Feekenham, but fhe took little noticeof his diLourfes. After having repeatedthe 51ft Pfalm, file laid her neck on theblock, and faid, “ Loed, into thy handsI commend my fpirit!” And immediatelyat one firoke the executioner fevered herhead from her body.Thus fell, in the. bloom of youth, thisamiable, nccompUfiud and noble Lady.FINIS