A REMARKABLE^SAUNDERS W IT SONGHOST OF BILL JONES,GLASGOWPHINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,/IIREMARKABLE FAMILY ADVENTUREOFSAUNDERS WATSON.In a remote country parish in the southf Scotland, the above worthy personage5ras born, bred, and married, and became jlie father of a family, consisting of one*on, named after himself, and three daugh-Srs. He rented a few acress of ground,ufficient to graze two cows and to keep oneorsc; and he had, by the greatest industry,frpught up and educated his family in abanner suited to his circumstances—thats, they were quite equal to the task ofreading the first chapter of Chronicles, andhe tenth of Nehemiah, distinctly. Theyiould also perform the Rule of Three, andvrite “ half-text” hand by the help of sgmr-ny—a mode which honest Saunders madehem always adhere to; for he said they£just spoilt paper wi’ making lines asirooket as rainbows, when they had noughto guide their han’ frae ae side o’ the sheet tohe ither.” As to the item of dancing, they:iad each, by dint of incessant solicitation,4gained their faither’s consent to attendteacher of that art during a fortnight; buas they happend, according to Saundersfiphrase, to have u nae ear for music,” it wa|merely time and money wasted. Saunders |who had always a great antipathy to sue famusements, was no way sorry at the dui fness of his family; but it was not till a yeasor two had elapsed that he could contemplal r>with any degree of patience the circumstanceof his mispending his money so; and as hi 1much loved partner, Tibby, had give ,her vote in favour of the children on tha .1occasion, he very frequently felt disposed tquestion her prudence in future when anthing material came under considerationsUpon this principle he determined not tsend them to a singing school, but to en sdeavour to give them what he called u. Iswatch o’ that branch o’ lear’ himself. Fiv ichurch tunes were his whole stock, and thes {too had lost many a note and quaver in hihands; but he thought he knew them iperfection, and besides giving his pupils tw 'or three lessons each day, they were enjoined to be most attentive in accompaning hir::while at the (l buik” so that no opportunitof improvement mig'ht be lost. Saunder[was nearly as unsuccessful in this depart!ment as the dancing-master had been ii Ihis; for though the girls made some Iktlprogress, young Sandy was altogetherintractible. His father, after labouringvery patiently with him for some time, atlast remarked to Tibby that it was u need¬less learning folk the thing they couldnalearn,” and relinquished wholly the task ofReaching. This is an accurate view of theextent of education possessed by the familyof Saunders Watson. Yet they were aswell as any around them in this respect;and the daughters when grown up, wereallowed to be not only sensible, but fair andaimiable. Young Sandy wrought and car¬ted along with his father, and was justnn the point of venturing upon matrimony,when his eldest sister, Mary, caught asevere fever and died. This sad event threwthe whole family into the utmost grief.1 Saunders bore it with a fortitude somewhatapproaching to' philosophy,—though noth¬ing of the stoic was mingled with his feel¬ings.—but Tibby and the two remainingdaughters were more vocal in their woe,notwithstanding of all the consolation which; Saunders endeavoured to administer to them.The whole neighbourhood flocked round thehapless family upon this occasion to join in; the work of comfort, for Saunders and hiswife with the whole of his children, werei loved and respected by every one.This was about the time when the greatest6alarm prevailed, and the most fearful stories ;were circulating through the country re¬garding the resurrectionists, as they areappropriately called. In consequence of'this, Saunders in a solemn divan of his-, neighbours, came to the resolution of watch¬ing his daughter’s grave, for a fortnight orso, till decay should have so far done its work <as to render the corpse of no use to any an¬atomist. Every neighbour cheerfully vol¬unteered his services m this pious work, and Ion the night after the funeral, two men wereaccordingly appointed sentinels, well armed 1with large sticks, a musquet each, and sev¬eral rounds of shot' The church-yard was a spot which fromits retired situation,—without a house, savethe church, within a quarter of a mile of:it,—seemed the very sanctuary of holiness .1and solituda It was surrouded with a strong ;high dyke, on the outside of which a line of !tall ash trees formed a second circle; so that jnothing of the external world was visabloto an internal observerj save the tops of twolong parallel ranges of mountains tliatwalled in the valley, or rather the glen. Thechurch stood in gloomy loneliness on thetop of a small knoll, exactly in the centre ofj the burying ground. From thence the earth' fell with a gradual inclination on all sides,towards the dyke, closs to the inside of which74 almost overshadowed hy the trees, a|)wded line of white through-stones gleamed|e spectres through the darkness. Theres a small house attached to the end ofe church, in which the sessions were gener-y held, where the sexton’s tools were depos-d, and into which the rope attached to thed descended. It was here the sentinels tookjiir station. The small gothic window inj»nt looked directly towards Mary’s grave,d as the sexton had given them the key,ey could, by locking the door on the inside,:itch, secure from the weather, and unseeni any one.''Three nights passed in this manner, with-it any remarkable occurence. On the fourth1 Saunders and his son insisted on takingleir turn in watching; a*d they repairedthe church-yard accordingly; the fatherth the Scots Worthies, and the big ha’ble under his arm, and the son with twolips over his shoulder, an ox-horn full ofwder, a small bladder of shot, and aicketfull of his mother’s coarse tow, forIfins. It was then the month of. March,leu the days and nights are equal; andit happened to be clear moonlight at theme, Saunders would not allow his son to•ing a candle with him, “ for” said he, asey travelled along, “ if ony o’ thae graveuukin ’ viUians sud be sculkin about, andt... _8see a licht i’ the session-hoose, there’s nae saling- what they micht do to us to get their Jeftecket.” u Then, faither,” Said Sauncwhat’s the use o’ taking ony buiks wi’ yTin sure, when ye canna read without specat a burnin’ cannle, ye’ll far less can reony at the moon.”“ Tut, tut, bairn !” said Saunders, “ tliare ay gude to hae aside ane, make av!use o’ them ye like. Gude knows aaTkin’ o’ faes Ave may hae to contend aaT afcmornin’, an’ mony an evil speerit has bedeyed aAva Avi’ the Avord o’ Gude, avIinocht else Avud do at them.” “ Then” repliSaundy, “if we’re to hae only thae k,o’ craitirs to deal Avi’, it Avas needless takithe guns Avi’ us. What can guns do |speerits ?” “Stupit gomeril!” cried Ifather, “ isna the guns to be used againony arm o’ flesh Ave may hae to contend Avi'D’ye think I’m daft enough to believe thspeerits could be hurt wi’ them ? If ye see orbody cornin’ aboot the grave, yee’ll shoan’ I’ll tak’ the buiks in my han’.” “Nifaither, ye maun shoot, an’ I’ll do that,” saSaundy, “ Gosh ! I never fired a gun imy life; an’ if she strikes back, and knocLme OAA're, than I’ll miss my aim, an’ oo’baith be murdered !” “ Tut, come awibletherin’!” said his father—“ ye see itgettin’ dark already; an’ if Ave’re no thei9soon oo’ll maybe hae been owre lang o’o'aun.”They reached the church-yard,—saw thatthe grave was untouched, and locked them¬selves up securely in the session-house. Itlyas now dark ; the moon had yet an hour:o remain behind the hill; and their lonelysituation, the solemnity of the place,—themournful sough of the wind among- the:rees, and the ghost-like appearance of theIvhite grave-stones, as indistinctly seen fromthe window, inspired them with feelings ofk very unearthly character.u Bless us, bairn,” said Saunders, 11 whatkn awsome thing it is to be surrounded wi’isae mony o’ the deed at this time o’ nicht!D’ye hear the bell creaking on it’s axle-tree:iboon our heads there, an’ thae waesomeVoices it the wun makes amang the trees ?pe’re really within the shadow o’ death!1 A land of darkness, as darkness itself; andpf the shadow of death without any order,find where the light is as darkness.’—JobTent and Twunty-secunt. What a mercyt is I hae some bits o’ the Bible on mylongue the nicht! Can ye say ony o’t,jpaundy ?” u Hoot, binna sae feart, faither !”Replied Saunday; u I’m no giftit wi’ scrip-‘]ir; but I’ll say ye a piece o’ a hymn it Ithae in my memory, an’ it I think suits theiitccasion—10I “ O Mary ! dear departed shade!Where is thy place of ”“ Whist! whist!” interrupted Saunders wihorror. D’ye no ken ye stupe, it that’spiece o’ ane o’ Burns’s sangs ? Gude for^us ! I wus nocht ill may happen us for ;profanity! lay the Scots Worthies anedye’r elbow on the wundow-sole there, ajhad ye’r peace a thegither, if ye canna s.Stony thing better.”It was a place, however, where speakiicould alone keep up their spirits; and Saudel's was obliged, in a little while, to breithe law of silence he had so hastily imposeAt length the moon appeared over the edjof the hill; and never did patriarch of dhail with grater pleasure a celestial messejger descending to visit him, than they dthe presence of the efulgent luminary, as silifted her broad face in tranquil sublimifrom the top of the mountain, and seem’dtransfer herself at once into the blue arch <heaven. All things now began to assumedifferent aspect. Every tree had its gigai“tic shaddow that stretched like a leviathadong the church-yard, and concealed witln its range a vast number of graves. Ti)ld gothic church stood by itself like a planhalf eclipsed, with the shadows of some of tltaller trees advanced half-way up its walvery much in the form of butresses ; whiI11 , nthe light that now gleamed in at the win¬dows, shed a faint twillight radience throughthe deep obscurity that formerly reignedwithin it, Saunders and his son now becam fvisible to each other, for the first time sine (they had entered the Session-house. The)were placed opposite to each other, one oi ■either side of window—Saundy with hi;>elbow leaning upon the Scots Worthies,, asfhe had been commanded, and his father inthe same relative position with regard to th§Ha’ Bible. The moonbeams were scarcelypowerful enough to penetrate the damp hazyair of their dreary apartment; yet the lightwas sufficient to disclose the sexton’s tools,lying huddled together in one of its cornersat a little distance. Saunders was justabout to make some melancholy remark onthe sad service they had lately been employedin upon his account, when his son, who hadbeen gazing through the window for a fewseconds, touched his father’s knee with thepoint of his finger, and whispered in a stateof great alarm, “ O faither, what’s that Ihear aboot Mary’s grave !”This direful whisper acted like the dis-of an electric battery upon the nervesiders, His whole body shook like aperson under a fit of ague ; his blood curdedwith horror at the thought of the unhallow¬ed purpose for which any person could be♦12disturbingthe hourthe mansions of the dead aof midnight, and his fanearming the intruders with every thin'formidable, made his heart almost cease tbeat, from terror for his own safety. Hison was in no better plight. They bothgazed like statues before the window, bu|neither of them had breath sufficient to saj|a single word to the other.It so happened that the shadow of a treehad fallen directly over the grave which theireyes were in quest of, so that it was hardly*recognisable;—it seemed a mere dim speckswiming amidst a wave of invisibility.Nothing at first was to be seen, but theirears informed them distinctly enough, thatsomething was busy about the depository ofMary’s remains. Terror, like every othertyrant, can only go a certain length till thepowers it has subdued, forcibly resume theirfunctions, and make it turn their slave.The mind of Saunders had now reached thisclimax ; a kind of desperate resolution suc¬ceeded to his former cowardice, and snatchinga gun, he thurst it into his son’s hand andordered him in a firm tone to fire through1 the window. ‘i What! an’ break a’ the glass,| an’ maybe blaw some spelks o’t aboot my.ain face ?” cried Saundy, in despair, atlyuch a proposition. u O faither, think what[an awfu’ rennish it wad mak’ in the inside13o' a kirk that has sounin’ balls in its ceil-in.” By this time the paroxysm thatmade Saunders dictate so summary ameasure had somewhat subsided. He beganby degrees to sink nearer to his constitutionallevel; and as he had never been remarkablelor bravery, he did not well know how to!answer the objections of his son, or whatmeans to adopt, compatible with his ownsafety, for the preservation of his daughter’scorpse. But to his great joy, he was relievedfrom this dilemma by observing that thewindow opened to the inside upon hinges.u Deed ye’r no far wrang bairn,” he atlength whispered cautiously. u But coodnaye open the window" withoot ony noise, andplay pap at them that way ? for the doormaunna be set up at nae rate. Oo maunkeep oursels safe within the hoose, Sandy.”u But will’t no be murder, faither, to shootwithout gien’ them timeous warnin’?” saidSaundy. uBless me, bairn, what a mercy yethought on that! We maunna bring onyman’s blood aboon oor heads. But than if wespeak, they’ll fin’ us oot, an’ maybe massacreus afore we hae time to fire, suld it sae happenit they’r no aimin to tak’ their heels for’t.”u Keep us, ay, faither! I’se warran’ thatbe the upshot o’t. Here tak’ ye the gun,for I darna shoot her. I’m a’ trimmlin wi’fear. O hear that, faither! wdiat a wark14tliey’r makiii.’ If we’re no fast they’ll hae ootthe coffin. I think I hear them dunnerin’on the lid o’t already !”There was, in truth, something about thegrave making a considerable noise; but stilltlie shadow of the tree prevented them fromdiscovering it. At times, however, theydiought they could perceive a low figuremoving a little upon the top of the grave;and as imagination had full liberty to investit with whatever shape and attributes itpleased, the trembling father and son hadnot a doubt of its being one of a party of,resurrectionists.“For heeven’s sake,” Saundy, cried theaffiicted father, “ lay the barrel o’ the gunower the wundow-sole, and that’ll steddyher ! Ye maun shoot; an’ I’ll stan’ near yewi’ die Bible i’ my ban’, and cry at themafore ye draw die tricker. They’ll mayberin aff an’ than diere’ll be nae blood shed.”“ O stan’ ahin me then, faither, an’ kepme if I’m knocket back ower when she gaesaff! I doot she’s to strike terribly.” I’ll dodiat my bairn.—Noo, ye’r ready, I’ll cryat them, and I’ll pu ye’r coat tails whenye’r to fire”, Saimdy groaned assent for hisfears had deprived him of speech; and thefadier laying the Bible upon his son’sshoulders, and leaning forward along uponhis back with his hands upon it, cried out15in as loud a tone as lie could then raise hisvoice to, u I £ Guide’s name, what ir ye, orwhat is’t ye’r seeking here at this time o’nicht? No answer was made, but the figurestill kept moving as formerly. “ I ax yeagain what ye ir ? L i cried Sauners—u speakor oo’ll blaw ye’r brain's oot. Dinna tlunk;oo’ll let the graves o’ the dead be rilled in, oor presence. u This appeal was as unsuc-1 cessful as tlie former one. Saunders’s embar-rasment increased; for he was resolved tocall only a third time. u I warn ye againto quat ye’re unhallowed wark and let thedead lie. I’ll no speak anither time, asGude’s my help. £< His last call was equallydisregarded. With a trembling hand Saun¬ders now pulled his son’s coat skirts; andwith a not less trembling hand did his sonventure to take aim and pull the trigger.Wonderful to relate, the shot took effect; foifirst a kind of shriek, and then a few deepsobs, announced the death of some creature.or other.Saundy did not fall backward as he haddreaded; but his father, on hearing tlmsliriek of their victim, fell forward upon him,and crushed him, along with the .Bible, tothe floor, the bell rope happened to be dang¬ling over the place; the hapless son graspedit in the unconciousness of his terror, andin striving to raise himself by it, set the16Ml a-ringlng. This however, was notheard by either of them at the moment;and Saundy after repeated tugs, got hisbody dragged from under his father, andraised himself, by it’s help, to his legsagain. His first attempt was to place hisfather in the same position; but the frighthad deprived him, if not of life, at least of tmotion. “ Preserve us,” cried Saundy •in utter despair, u am I left here alane, ■the only leevin craitir in this horrid place !”|u Pm no deed, my bairn,” sighed his father, ?as he recovered and sat up on the floor.iC Len me ye’r ban I beseech ye, an’ let usin frae this shame o’ dreed an’ calamity.Gude kens what may be the upshot o’ thiswark. I doot oo sudna hae shot sae soon;an’ ye ken if we’re fun here, oo may behanged for murder, for oo hae nae witnessesto prove it did in a just cause.”This was a joyous proposal for Saundy.He speedily picked up the two guns, theBible, and the Scots Worthies, and takingjhis father’s hand as desired, had unlockedthe door, and was just about to set his footjover the threshold, when to his consternation,jhe heard the sound of a number of peoplerunning towards the kirk stile. The firingof the gun and the ringing of the bell hadalarmed the whole neighbourhood. Everyone started out of bed and made for thechurch-yard at full speed in the expectationof finding' either Saunders Watson or someother person a corpse; even the pastor him¬self was among there crowd. The alarm ofSaunders and his son may well be conceived,'when they saw the church-yard gate thrown1open, and so many people running pell-melltowards the spot where the tragedy had beenacted. Neither of them had power to shutthe door. Each leaned himself against thewall, more dead than alive, till they hearda well known voice exclaim, in a tone ofagreeable, but somewhat mirthful surprise,u Preserve us, here’s the minister’s swinelyin’ cauld deed! I’ll ’ay my lug for’t,Saunders has taen’t for a ressurrection man,and shot it in that belief.”Notwithstanding the sacredness of theplace, and their feeling of sympathy forSaunders’s late misfortune, a general burstof laughter followed this announcement.The two heroes were sought for, and found,who both joyful at, and ashamed, of theirmistake, scarcely knew what kind of a faceto put upon the matter. They were themost afraid to face the minister; but he'cry good naturedly relieved them from theirmbarrassment, by observing that as theoig had broken loose, and strayed where itDught not to do, it in some measure deserv¬ed its punishment; and as for himself he set■ -,r:: -~-r - . 18- .... ... ... ;no value on suet a trifle, in comparison withthe satisfaction he felt at having- his fearsdisappointed.Two of the men now offered to watch tilldaylight; but, at the suggestion of theminister, it was unanimously agreed thatthey should all go back to their beds, as themorning was now too far advanced to allowof any resurrection ary schemes being at¬tempted. A large party of them attendedSaunders to his own door, some carrying!his books and others easing young Saundyof both his guns; and from that time for¬ward the word resurrectionist has alwaysbeen associated with other ideas than thoseof fear among the people in the native parishof Sunders Watson.A GHOST STORY.The narrator had in his youth gone mateof a slave-vessel from Liverpool, of whichtown he seemed to he a native. The cap¬tain of the vessel was a man of variable tem¬per, sometimes kind and courteous to hismen, hut subject to fits of humour, dislike,cand passion, during which lie was very vio¬lent, tyrannical, and cruel. He took a19particular dislike at one sailor abroad, anelderly man, called Bill Jones, or some suchname. He seldom spoke to this man with¬out threats and abuse, which the old man,with the licence which sailors take in mer¬chant vessels, was very apt to return.On oue occasion Bill Jones appeared slowin getting- on the yard to hand a sail. Thecaptain, according to custom, abused theseaman as a lubberly rascal, who got fat byleaving his duty to other people. The manmade a saucy answer, almost amounting tomutiny, on which, in a towering passion,the captain ran down to his cabin, and re¬turned with a blunderbuss loaded with slugs,.with which he took deliberate aim at thesupposed mutineer, fired, and mortallywounded him. The man was handed downfrom the yard, and stretched on the deck,evidently dying. He fixed his eyes on thecaptain, and said, ‘ Sir, you have done forme, but I will never leave you.’ The capt-tain, in return, swore at him for a fat lub¬ber, and said, ho would have him thrown inthe slave kettle when they made food for thenegroes, and see how much fat he had got;the man died; his body was actually throwninto the slave kettle, and—the narratorobserved, with a ‘naivete’ which confirmedthe extent of his own belief in the truth otwhat he told—there was not much tat about20him, after all. The captain told the crewthey must keep perfect silence on the subjectof what had passed, and as the mate was notwilling to give an absolute and explicitpromise, he ordered him to be confined belov\After a day or two he came to the mate,and demanded if he had an intention to de¬liver him up for trial when the vessel gothome; the mate, who was tired of closeconfinement in that sultry climate, spokehis commander fair, and obtained his liberty.When he mingled among the crew oncemore, he found them impressed with theidea, not unnatural in their situation, thatthe ghost of the dead man appeared amongthem, when they had a spell of duty, espe-cialy if a sail was to be handed, on whichoccassion the spectre was sure to be out uponthe yard before any of the crew; the nar¬rator has seen this apparition himself repeat¬edly—he believed the captain saw it also,but ho took no notice of it for some time,and the crew, terrified at the violent temperof the man, dared not call his attention to it.jThus they held on their course homeward,with great fear and anxiety; at length, thecaptain invited the mate, who was now insome sort of favour, to go down to the cab¬in, and take a glass of grog with him; inthis interview he assumed a very grave andanxious aspect: LI need not tell you, Jack,21what sort of a hand we have got on hoardwith us—he told me he w ould never leaveme, and he has kept his word—-you onlysee him now and then, but he is always byrny side, and never out of sight. At thisvery moment I see him—I have determinedio bear it no longer, and I have resolved toleave you.’ The mate replied, that hisleaving the vessel while out of sight of landwas impossible; he advised, that if thecaptain apprehended any bad consequencesfrom what had happened, he should run tortire wrest of France or Ireland, and there goashore and leave him, the mate, to carrythe vessel into Liverpool. The captain onlyshook his head gloomily and reiterated hisdetermination to leave the ship. At thismoment the mate was called to the deck forsome purpose or other, and the instant hegot up the companion-ladder he heard a plashin the watSr, and, looking over the ship’sside, saw that the captain had thrown him¬self into the sea from the quarter-gallery,and was running astern at the rate of sixknots an hour. When just about to sink, heseemed to make a last exertion, sprung hallout of the water, and clasped his handstowards the mate, calling, ‘ By , BillJones is with me now !’ and then sunk, tobe seen no more.Sir Waller Scott's Demonology.I*)MYSTERIOUS MURDERS AT PARIS.j The murder of M. de Savary, which oo-cured in 1720, occasioned considerable noiseat Paris. He was a sort of philosopher—a follower ol Epicurus. Not being a mar¬ried man, and being very partial to com¬pany, his house was the resort of many oli die courtiers and wits of Paris, where the1pleasures of life were indulged in. He kepta very small establishment, consisting onlyq£ a valet and a female cook. One day,when he was at home without company, aperson paid him a visit. M. de Savary re¬ceived him in a most polite manner, and tiieindividual said he would stay and dine withhim, to which M, de S. signified his plea¬sure. This person knew the small establish¬ment of his host well. The valet was sentby his master into the cellar for some Cham¬pagne, and the guest followed him. Assoon as the man had got into the cellar, hewas knocked down and killed with a malletby the stranger, who had suddenly pickedit up from the floor on entering. A dogwhich was there was then despatched withthe same weapon, lest the animal shouklbark and alarm M. de Savary. The indi-1vidual who had thus cruelly slain the poor’valet, entered the kitchen where the cook23was preparing some fricasseed fowls fordinner, and he treated her in the same man¬ner, knocking her down before she was-aware what he was going to do. Having1 destroyed the two servants and the dog, heIran into M. de Savary’s apartment, and'killed him in a similar manner: the latterwas unarmed, and consequently could notdefend himself, neither was he in a conditionof body to exercise much strength, inasmuchas he was a cripple. The perpetrator ofthese dreadful murders wrote in a book whichwas lying on the table the account abowegiven; he, however, did not write his name.A clock stood on the mantle-piece of the room,ornamented with a skull cut in ivory, underwhich was this inscription : i Look on this,that you may regulate your life.’ Someone (it is supposed to be the murderer) wrotein pencil underneath, 4 Look at his life, andyou will not be surprised at his death.’The murderer having satisfied his vengeance,closed the door and went away, without anyone knowing what a deed had been perpe¬trated. The door was afterwards forced open,and the three dead bodies found. Verylittle blood had flown from any of the un¬happy victims, their heads being crushed bythe mallet. The dinner table was foundproperly laid out, and not a single piece ofsilver was missing; so that it clearly appear-24lod robbory was not the end which the mur¬derer had in view. The officers of justicewove made acquainted with the circumstance,and some perons were appointed to examinethe papers belonging to M. do, Savary, a-mong which was found a letter in a lady’shand, addressed to him. It was in thesewords:—‘We are lost! My husband hasjust learned all: think of some means toavert his anger. Parapel is the only onewho can restore him to reason. Let himspeak to my husband, for, unless he does, wehave no hope of safety.’ This letter had nosignature, neither was it dated. Parapel,whose name was mentioned in it, was arrest¬ed; but he was liberated again, after stat¬ing that he knew not what it meant. Heacknowledged being acquainted with M. deSavary, having occasionally been at hishouse. But then it was well know that manygay men were in the habit of going there,among whom were the Duke do Ven'dome,and some courtiers. Several.people were ar¬rested on suspicion of being implicated in themurderous transaction, but they were after¬wards liberated, and the affair is still involv¬ed in mystery.