WITH A SELECTION OFSCRIPTURE PROMISES,RELATIVE TOGLASGOW ;FEINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.THE TROUBLES of LIFE.SX// \K/JtJudge not the Lord by feeble sense,But trust him for his grace;Behind a frowning Providence^ tie hides a smiling face.MiATOKENFOR IFRIVERS.&e.2. Kings, iv. 26.And she answered, It is well.Short words, soon spoken ; but to have a suit- sableness of heart to them is one of the highestattainments of faith. To be sure,“ It is wellwe think so, when all tilings go according to ourwish ; when there is nothing in Providence that:crosses our desires, that thwarts our designs, that:sinks our hopes, or awakens our fears; Submis- ■sion is easy work then ; but to have all tilingsseemingly against us, to have God smiting inthe tenderest part, unravelling all our schemes, teontradicting our desires, and standing aloof from3ur very prayers ; how do our souls behave then ?'his is the true touchstone of our sincerity andibmission ; “ Here,” as it is said, Rev. xiii. 10.is the patience and faith of the saints ”? thisnews what they are made of, what they areithin ; hut instances there are many in the bookI God, wherein we find this sweet frame pre-liling, as Abraham, Job, David, and the Shu-imite in my text, than whose story we meetfth few things in Providence more affecting. Ifm look back a little, you may see what were herI’cumstances, and those of her family. She was! “ great woman,” says verse 8, and that she wasj“good woman,” the whole context shews, HerIsband and she wanted but one thing to makeilem as happy as the vanity and uncertainty of1 human affairs would admit of. They had1 ugh of the world, and they seem to have hadenjoyment of it ; for when Elisha, to requiter kindness, asks ; “ What shall be done for! ? Wouldst thou be spoken for to the king ?she answers, ts No, I dwell among mine|n people,” “ I seek nothing greater thandliat I have : ” only ( as Gehazie learned fromr) they wanted a child to comfort them now,to inherit what they had when they werere. God in a miraculous way, gives this re¬st. This child grows up, and was no doubt4the deUght of its parents. Just at the time of life Lwhen children are most engaging, before they are !capable of doing any great tiling to grieve theirparents, God lays his hand suddenly upon himand takes him away. The dearest comforts are fbut short lived, and the dearer they are when liv- jing, the deeper they cut when they are removed. sMany of you can judge what the loss of a son, anonly son, must be, and when there is no hope ofa Seth instead of Abel. But, behold, “ he tak-eth away, and who shall hinder him ?” Well:What does the mother do now ? One would .think all her hope is cut off, and all her comfort idried up : No, it is far otherwise. The same ipower that gave lam could also raise him ; in faithof this, she lays him upon the prophet’s bed, andmakes all the haste to him she could. She con¬cealing what had happened (as it is probable)from her husband, he objects to her going to theprophet, ver. 23. “ Wherefore wilt thou go tohim to-day ? It is neither new-moon nor Sabbath.”And she said, “ It shall be well.” Faith sets asideevery obstacle : “ It shall be well : the end willbe peace “ God is with me, and he will makeall things work together for good.” Commen- ■-tators, in general, make very light of this, and .her answer to Elisha’s message in my text. Some Ituppos* she has a reserve in her breast, when5iSehazi asks after her family, that this “ well'’«nly refers to her husband and herself. Others■i »hink it is but a transition to something farther,i yhich she was in haste to say ; as if she had said,KA11 is well do not hinder me, I have urgent busi-i: ess with your master Elisha, and cannot stay toi ialk farther with you upon any matters.” This; > the sense which most annotators incline to,•i which, I confess, I the more wonder at, because; 111 agree, that the apostle’s words in part refer to?i)his story, Heb. xi. 35. “ Women received theiridead raised to life again.” How they receivedhem is there specified ; namely, by or “ throughaith Faith, not as some carry it, in the pro¬diet, but in the persons who had their dead re-toredto them; or else there would have been noxeed to make mention of any by name. Nowvherein this woman’s faith appeared, my text and:ontext make manifest. Here was a dependanceipon God’s promise, an abiding by that, Godtiad promised her a son ; a son, not to lose himiut to have comfort in him ; and, as if she had■aid, “ As for God, his work is perfect, he does|).iot use to raise his people’s expectations for no¬thing ; to give and immediately take away again,BMy son is dead, but God, all sufficient liveth ;jjwhy should I mourn as though I had no hope ?uAs for God’s power and faithfulness there is no6abatement in them.” Therefore, she makes n <preparation for his burial teLs her husband ncthing of his death, but seeks to God by the prophet, and expects help from him, See how sin ?•expresses herself: “ Is it well with thee ? ” (an< p.says Gehazzi,) “ Is it well with thy husbandIs it well with the child ? and she answered,is well”. Here is the greatest submission in 1greatest distress : Her son, her only son, the so:of all her love, the son of her old age, he is take:away with a stroke, and yet all is well. There i:!nothing amiss in the dispensation ; had she beeto choose it, it is well; she has nothing to objectHere are submission and faith both discovered intheir sweet exercise; submission to what God hathdone ; faith in what he is able to do, and in whatshe believed he would do : “ By faith women re¬ceived their dead raised to life again ; so thatthe words, thus explained, afford us this plain andluseful observation.Observ. Faith in God’s promise and powerwill bring a man to submit to the sorest and most:trying dispensations of his Providence ; or thus,Faith where it is in exercise, will teach a Chris¬tian to say of all God does, “ It is well.”In discoursing on this propossition, I will en¬deavour to show what submission is, or how andTa what tense we are to understand the expressionn my text, “ It is well.”This “ well” dost not suppose there is nothingI n providential dispensations, which to flesh andrr;ense appears evil. Submission quiets under anAffliction, but it does not take away our sense anaeeling of the affliction. The apostle speakshat is every believer’s experience, Heb. xii. 11.I u No chastening for the present seemeth to beoyous, but grievous. Whatever be spoken ofhe good of it, it presents itself unto us with aery different face ; it is matter of present grief,nd sorrow to them that are chastised ; nor aree blamed for our feeling and sense of it. Ourlessed Lord himself wept at the grave of his dearlend, John xi. 35. And at the approach of hislast sufferings, “ his soul was exceeding sorrow-1, even unto death,” Matt. xxvi. 38. “ yet heas led as a lamb to the slaughter ; he openedot his mouth there was patience and quietubmission under all his sorrows, while natured some vent ; for groans are sometimes aneasement to our grief. Thus it is said of the goodwoman, “ that her soul was bitter within her,”ver. 27. Elisha saw her agony in her looks,though he knew not the cause of it; and yet* AH is well.” When Job lost his substance andchildren, and was smitten in his body with soresboils ; when Heman, and when the church in theLamentations were deprived of the consolationsfrom God, when the Comforter, who would re¬lieve their souls, was far from them ; when Da¬vid also was cursed by Shimei, and turned outof doors by his own son ; can you think that inall these there was no feeling ? Had there beennone, there could have been no profit by any 01the dispensations. Unless we realize our trials in¬deed, what are we the better for them? Thiswould be to despise the chastening of the Lord, tobe above correction, to be smitten and not grieve,is one of God’s sorest judgments, and always ar¬gues a soul ripe for ruin : this “ well ” does notsuppose us insensible of the evil of afflicting.Though we believe all that befals us is well,this does not forbid our inquiring into the reasonsof God’s providential dispensations, and a search¬ing out the cause for which they come upon us.Every rod hath a voice in it, and the “ man ofunderstanding will hear it,” and “ see the nameof God in it, ” Micah vi. 9. what God intends byit, what is his ends and design in it; for he doesnot afflict willingly, nor grieve the children olmen, Lam. iii. 33. There is a “ need be ” inevery dispensation that befals us : 1 Pet. U 6.“Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for aMason” (if need be) “ ye are in heaviness through9imamfold temptations.” God acts with judgTnentjin proportion to our needs: there is a convenienceland fitness, nay, there is an absolute necessity inIthe case ; it must be that we are in heaviness and(that through manifold temptations. One singleiitrial oftentimes will not do, to empty us of self,!to wean us from the world, to shew us the vanityof the creature, the sinfulness of sin, &c. : it mustbe repeated or others joined with it, so fast areour affections glued to the things of time andsense. Now, what this need is in us, what thisil intention and end is in God, the Christian willj| and ought to be searching out, and inquiring dai-lly into. This was Job’s frame, (and ye have|| heard, as says the, apostle, of the patience of►Uob.) Job xxxiv. 31. 32. “Surely it is meet:x to be said unto God I have borne chistisement,i I will not offend any more. That which a seen not, teach thou me ; if I have done iniquity, II will do no more. Sin lies deep, it must be search¬ed after in the deep and secret corners of theheart; there is so much self-love and self-flatteryhid there, that a man cannot judge aright ofhimself, or of God without divine teachings. “ ItIt is meet to be said unto God, I have bornechastisment.” Sirs, it is one thing to be chastis¬ed, and another thing to bear chastisement; tobehave aright under it; to be patient, submissive.10thankful; to have a frame of heart suited to the{»dispensation, whatever it is. Tins is to bear chas¬tisement: and wherever this is, the language of f'the soul will be, “ That which I see not teachthou me ; I have done inquity, I will do no more.”When an affliction is sanctified, it always begetsgodly fear and jealousy. A man is then most a-fraid of his own heart, lest that should deceivehim; lest he should come out of the furnace un¬purged, unrefined; lest the end of God’s visitationupon him should be unattained. And this is wellconsistent with our believing all that God does isiwell done. Once more,A soul may say in a becoming frame, and in 1the exercise of suitable affections, “ It is well, ”and yet long, and pray, and wait from the trial. -Submission to the will of God, under awful dis¬pensations, is not inconsistent with earnest praver 'for a gracious and speedy issue to these very (Us- •pensations. “ It is well, ” says this good-woman >in my text; and yet how does she plead for thelife of the child, ver. 28. “ Did I desire a son ol tmy lord? Did not I say do not deceive me? Asif she had said, f£ I asked it not, I could scarcebelieve it when it was promised me; God raised myexpectations himself, he encouraged my hopes,and surely he will not goback from his own word.” iIt was a wonderful act of faith; but the promises111 f God can never lie long unfulfilled: when heias prepared the heart to pray, his own ear ispen to hear. He has not called himself “ I amat I am,” for nothing. Abraham staggered!'ot at the promise through unbelief, no more doeshe daughter of Abraham here : it is blessed plead-lig, “ Did not I say, do not deceive me ?” “ Maytrust ? May I venture ? He lias given me thelithful word of God to rely on; here my faithsteth.” And a son came in due season. Now sheoks to God, the author of the mercy, and ap-illies to the prophet, who was the revealer of it.le sends Gehazi with his staff, but this wrill notntent her, except Elisha goes himself: she knowsat he was great with God; she will therefore!ave his prayers and presence “ As the Lord liv-th, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee,”er. 30. All this argues the strong desires of hereart after the return of the child’s life, thoughtill she says, “ All is well ” While, we bear chas-mings, we may pray, and pray hard that God,ould take them off. “ If it be possible,” ( saysmocent aggrieved nature in the man Christ, )let this cup pass from me,” Matthew xxvi. 26,Opening our mouth against God is our sin, butis our duty to open our mouths and our heartso him. In the former sense, says David, “ I>'as dumb, I opened not my mouth, because thou12didst it,” Psal. xxxix. 9.: and yet, with the same Ibreath, he adds, “ Remove thy stroke away fromme : I am consumed by the blow of thine hand,” :ver. 10. Was a child under the direction of a rparent to intimate no desire of his forbearance, !should we not rather account him stubborn thansubmissive ? In like manner, not to ask of Godrelease from troubles, is as offensive as to mourn ;at them. It is the token of a proud heart and arelentless spirit. God expects other things at our 'hands ; even of the wicked he says, “ In theiraffliction they will seek me early; ” much moreshall his own people, w ho have known his name, o(and put their trust in him ; who have known the i ftadvantage of prayer, and been so often set at liber¬ty by it from all their tears. If these are silent, V.they cannot be sensible nor submissive. Only in itall their prayers, when they are most earnest and . bvehement, “If it be consistent with the will of *God,” and there will be no limiting him as totime or way. | tThese things are neither of them inconsistent t.with the soul’s saying, under the most awful re- >bukes,“ Allis well.”Now, what is included in this “ well” in mytext, or what is this submission to the will ofGod ? It takes in, as I apprehend, these threethings:»131 '1!1. A justifying Godin all he does “ It iswellGod cannot do amiss; he worketh allthings after the counsel of his own will, to the! praise of his glory. And after all that is comeupon us,” says the Church, Ezraix. 13. “ thou,our God, hast punished us less than our iniqui-i ties deserve; thou hast taken vengeance accord-If ing to the desert of our sins, When sin appearsi to be what it is in itself, exceeding sinful, affliction|j will appear light, and not till then. Wherefore,i i says the church, Lam. hi. 39, “ wherefore, doesa living man complain, a man for the punishmentof his sins ? So long as we are out of hell, Godpunishes less than our iniquities deserve.Whatever be our trial, it comes from God : heis the author, whoever be the instrument, there¬fore, “it is well,” He cannot do iniquity: Davidhad not one word to say, by way of complaint,when he saw God’s hand in the affliction : yea,let him curse, for “ the Lord hath bid Shimeicurse David,” 2 Sam. xvi. 12. We may puzzleend distress ourselves about instruments and se-sond causes, but no quiet no rest can we have,till we are led to the first. “ He performeththe thing appointed for me;” that settles the soul,but nothing else will do it. “ Be still and knowthat lam God,” Psal. xlvi. 10. If thy child¬ren are taken, thy substance fails, thy body is14sore vexed, thy comforts, and even the presenceof thy God leaves thee; yet be still, that is, donot say a word against the dispensation, do notfret, do not censure and condemn Providence. Iam God, thy God in all; and a covenant Godcannot do amiss. God will be glorified and ex¬alted, that’s enough for us. This, “ It is well,”implies in it, not in some things, but in all.2. This submission implies in it, our approv¬ing of all God does ; not only it is not amiss, butit is right; it is the best way, the only sure wayto bring about our good : Therefore holy Jobblesses God in all, chap. i. 21. “ Naked came1 out of my mother’s womb, and naked shall Ireturn thither: the Lord gave and the Lord hathtaken away ; blessed be the nayte of the Lord.He had the same great and good thought of Godas ever he had; God was his God still, and theGod of his mercy. He should have an expected,a desired end; that he believed still, still, becauseGod’s thoughts were the same they ever were;that is thoughts of peace and not of evil. Andthis is the frame in which we find the poor saints,that were scattered up and down throughout thewhole world almost, I Pet. i. 6. “ who are keptby the power of God through salvation, ready tobe revealed in the last time, wherein ye greatlyrejoice,” &c. They were fat from one another to15: avoid persecution, it was in their way: but noneI of these things moved them. There was joy in!i their expected rest in happiness at last, thoughII there was great pain and heaviness in the way to1 it: the way was rough, but right; therefore they[I approved of it, they acquiesced in it; nay, here-jin “ they greatly rejoiced.” Thus the saints ofHold took joyfully the spoiling of their goods, and'll were tortured, not accepting deliverance, becauseI they knew in themselves, “ that they had inji heaven a better and an enduring substance, ”Heb. x. 34. O that blessed knowledge! it com-1 forts, refreshes, it fills the soul, and lifts a man!j! above himself.Every path which God takes is right then| and the believer chooses to walk in it: His God,I his Father, has marked it out, and nothing goesni so against the grain, but that “ all is well,”'i which his Father does: His will is brought to be< one wdth God’s; the soul approves of all GodI does.3. This submission implies in it our cleavingi to God in all. To be pleased with God as afriend, when he seems to be coming forth against,; us as an enemy; to lean upon a promise, when allJthe ways leading to the performance are shut up ;to rejoice in God when we have nothing left be¬side to rejoice in, and faith is hard put to it to/16«bU God ours. Thus, to cleave to God whenwe do not find comfort from him, this is believingindeed; to love the hand that smites, this is truegrace and great grace. A noble act of faith wasthat, Job xiii. 15. “ though he slay me, yet willI trust in him So “ Abraham staggered notat the promises through unbelief, ” Rom. iv. 20.He brought God’s promises and faithfulness closetogether, and considered none of the difficultiesnay absurdities, which came between them: Itwas not—“Is this reasonable ? What probabilityis there in that ? How can these things be ?”&c. but being not weak in faith, he considerednot his own body now dead, neither yet the dead¬ness of Sarah’s womb, but was strong in faith,giving glory to God; he clave to him, abode byhis promise in a way of faith and firm depend-ance.This is the true nature of submission, and is con¬tained in that expression in my text, “ It is well.”A wrord of use.—Use 1. Wonder not at your trials, be theynever so strange: “ All is well; some secret endis to be answered which you see not; God is inall; the hand and love of a Father is there. Theyare to purge from sin, to wean from the world, tobring you from the foot of God, to shew you thatyour rest is not here, that it lies beyond the17! grave. What though they make you smart,they do you the more good: this argues your serw-sibleness under the rod ; that is not a rod whichI does not cause smart; the sharpest physic does! most service, because it reaches the inward, hid-i den cause, not one of our many trials which wecould well spare.Use 2. Do not think any trial sanctified,i till you have a suitable frame to the trial, what-| ever it be. Are you humbled ? Are you prayer-u ful? Are you submissive? Have you lookedn inward, and confessed your sin, saying. Takei'll away all iniquity ? If the affliction has noti| brought you to this, it hath done you no good.^ For all you may have borne, his anger is notl; turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.Use 3. Do not think of other means, where-d by God’s end in visiting you might have been asA well answered; that is, in fact, to quarrel withIGod in w7hat he has done, or is doing. Havea care of your thoughts; unsubmission slips inat that door before one is aware. “ It is well, ”is the only soul quickening and God-glorifyingframe. God that has oppointed the end, hassettled, and he will order the means: Rest there,and “ all is well."18HINTS TO THE AFFLICTED.What fatal mischiefs would follow, if there was novariety in our experience ! There are so manyremains of depraved nature in the hearts of thesaints, that if the warm sun of prosperity did al¬ways shine upon the Lord’s garden, the weedswould quickly multiply, the choicest flowers with¬er, and an army of caterpillars devour the pleasantfruits. To prevent these, God will not suffer hispeople to enjoy uninterrupted prosperity, but wise¬ly appoints seasons of affliction and trouble.On the other hand, were we to groan under per¬petual adversity, our souls perhaps would sufferequal prejudice. Our heavenly hither will not al¬ways chide; he remembers that we are but dust,and that our flesh is not like brass or iron. Werewe never in the fire, our dross v'ould not be con¬sumed, and were wre always to be in the fire, oursilver and gold would be wasted.Hereby God takes a proper method for the ex¬ercise and improvement of the graces of his chil¬dren. Without such a mixed condkion, therecould be no room for many of them, and not roomenough for any of them to appear in their gloryand beauty. Were it always a day of prosperitywhere would be the proof of their faith, hope andpatience ?—• the evil day brings thee to rest. To19possess our souls in patience, in the day of troubleto believe the good will and fatherly love of Godeven when he smites, is a point of no small diffi¬culty But, were we never to enjoy a season of| prosperity, where would be the evidence of ourill humility, heavenly mindedness, and contempt of a1 present world ? Variety adds a beauty and lustreto providence. In the day of prosperity therefore,i'i we ought to rejoice with trembling, and in the dayK of adversity, to consider and faint not; for “GodI) hath set one against the other, to the end that no| man might find any thing after him,” Eccl. vii 14.While in this valley of tears, it is not wonderfulthat believers should be often called to weep.I To mingle their tears with those of their brethren- —or in the words of the apostle, to “weep withI those that weep,—is a part of the holy fellowshipt they are called to by the gospel.At present, the way of providence in generali is dark and mysterious. There is a depth in it,I for which we have no line. There are many seals» on it, not fit as yet to be opened. But when theLamb who is in the midst of the throne, shall openthe seals, and shew the meaning of all the darkpassages in that mysterious book, and every on« is20made to view that part of it that related to theway in which they were brought through manifoldtribulations to the kingdom, when they will allstrike up on the highest key, and sing “ HeHATH DONE ALL THINGS WELL 1”Believers ought to comfort o.'a another withthese words. It is heartsome for travellers onthe road in a dark night, and going to the sameplace, to speak to each other in the language ofthe country to which they are going, and to say,“ What of the night! what of the night!” Andto encourage one another, by often reiteratingthat animating reply, “ The morning cometh.”The shadows of the evening are daily growinglonger with all the travellers to the heavenlySion. But at evening time it shall be light.The bright shining of the sun of Righteousnesswill make even the passage through the dark vall¬ey of the shadow of death lightsome and pleasant.Faith can see eternal day at the farther end of it.Jesus went through the Jordan of death when itoverflowed all its banks, and was brimful of thecurse. But his death drank up the curse, and leftnothing but a blessing to all his redeemed: and hissweet and cheering voice is still to be heard in thepassage—“Fear not! I am He that liveth, andwas dead; and behold I am alive for evermore •said have the keys of hell and of death ! ”21/“ ly THEIR UNCIRCUMCISED HEARTS,” Saidthe Lord respecting ancient Israel, “ be humbled,and they accept of the punishment of their in¬iquity, then will I remember my covenant withJacob,” &c. Lev. xxvi. 41.—ofthepuniah-ment of their iniquity ! that is, bear it willinglycontentedly. It is a happy state of mind whenJour trials are accepted ones: when God's chas-tening hand is even esteemed a kindness.—Lord!r may the believer say, I will not puzzle myselfi'lwith hows, and whys, and yets. Thou hasti done it; I rest there. It seemed good in thy sightI that is a sufficient reason. Let God choose myi portion; I am sure it will be best in the end.—i Even when He acts as a Sovereign, he forgetsk not his relation as a father.SCRIPTURE PROMISES.I Psalm 68—6. A father of the fatherless, anda judge of the widow is God in his holy habitation.Jeremiah 49—11. Leave thy fatherless chil¬dren, I will preserve them alive; and let thy wi¬dows trust in me.Job 5.—17. Happy is the man whom God> correcteth : therefore despise not thou the chas¬tening of the Almighty. Verse 18. For hemaketh sore, and bindeth up; he vroundeth, andhis hands make whole.22Psalm 119—67. Before I was afflicted Iwent astray; but now have I kept thy wordVerse 71. It is good for me, that I have beenafflicted; that I might learn thy statutes. 75.I know, O Lord, thy judgements are right, andthou in faithfulness hast afflicted me.2. Corinthians 4—16. For which cause wefaint not; but though our outward man perish,yet the inward man is renewed day by day.Verse 17. For our light affliction which is butfor a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory.Hebrews 21—6. Whom the Lord loveth hechasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom hereceiveth. Verse 7. If ye endure chastening,God dealeth with you as with sons; for whatson is he whom the father chasteneth not ? 10.They verily, for a few clays chastened us aftertheir own pleasure; but he for our profit, that wemight be partakers of his holiness. 11. Nowno chastening for the present seemeth to be joy¬ous, but grievous: nevertheless, afterward ityieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness,unto them which are exercised thereby.Deut. 8—5. As a man chasteneth his son,so the Lord thy God chasteneth thee.Job 36.-8. And if they be bound in fetters,Mid be holdeu in cords of affliction. Verse 9.23Then he sheweth them their work and their trans¬gressions, that they have exceeded. 10. Heopeneth also their ear to discipline, and command-eth that they return fron iniquity.I Psalm 94.—12. Blessed is the man whomthou chastenest, O Lord and teachest him out ofthy law. Verse 13. That thou mayest givehim rest from the days of adversity, until the pitf be digged for the wicked.Romans 5.—3. We glory in tribulation also,knowing that tribulation worketh patience, andpatience experience, and experience hope.Job 19 26. Though after my skin wormsdestroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I seeGod. Verse 27. Whom I shall see for myself,and mine eyes shall behold, and not another,though my reins shall be consumed within me.Isaiah 26.—19. Thy dead men shall live,together with my dead body shall they arise. A-wake and sing, ye that dwell in the dust: for thydew is as the dew of herbs : and the earth shallcast out the dead.■„