Religious Courtship;OR, THEA D Y \ N f A 0 E SD IS AD V ANT \ Gfi SOF THEMARRIAGE STATE.As entered into with Religious orIrreligious Persons.SZ&irEKlD UNDER THE SIMILITUDE OF A' •DREAMSTPHILANTHROPISTSTIRLING:jftjnted and gold by M. RandalOF SCOTLAND )' } nrrt ' t. * < r ■ .**.. _ V f. * {,;, - t*.>/ ; -. 1 . C • ' ►. ^ . 'V. *: '■ ■ i r ■* « .v . • r v.- , ■'' . k ' ■I* ' ■.1 f.; • - > • - *■1■RELIGIOUS COURTSHIPAS I walked through the wildernefsof this world I laid me down to sleep,land fancied myfelf trav-ll ng to tre city ofold Babylon, where f was muca amazed inviewing the curiosities of the place; as thaTower, the Wall, the Gates, the ft rests, thePrtlace the river, the Images in the plain ofDura fee. I obferved the city, and it ap»pcared in dillerent views. In one part thepeople were entirely taken up in revelliiigs,leakings, diversions, fplendid appearances,ind enjoying themfelves. In the other, theyvere more relcrved. and were much takenup in a demure drefs and behaviour in thelecency of tue r houfes and ftreets in theiegularity of their towers and fortifications,,«c. but without any appearance of danger,ihey leemed entirely at cafe.I Howbeit. when I had fatiated myfelfinth gazing at the particular (hows, Inought to take a prolpect of the wholejity together. So I walked to a risinggrouad a little rented from th« treadwher. I fav a Booth which I took to bebuilt oi. purpoie, for the conveoiency oftakn g prolpttts, and went directly to it :an at the door I law an old man of whom1 enquired if he hao never a profpeft glafswhereby I night be favoured with a fullview of the-royal City, wbuch I fuppoied tobe the metropolis of the world. He toldme, if a pleifed to take deliberate obferva-tion I might, perhaps, have different ap¬prehensions of that ipiendid city, than Ih idiit prelent ; but he fin red me it wasfo full of inteftine perplexity, that the in¬habitants nad no real fanifa&ion in them-felv'-s He thet efore then fetched out hispr.^fp< ftivc, and told me, if I pleated, hewouid tnew me the situation of the place,whereby I mi^h b- convinced, that its con¬dition was not so happy, nor its glory fcmrjeftiek, as 1 imagined. So I took adiftii £t v-ew of the fouth side, and thefoui ca or appeared to be nothing but bogsat.u quick ands, which could not potsibyfui ;in the buildings but ere long theymuft inevi ably sink I again took a viewof the m r-h side and the founoation wasall bituminous and fulpnur ou« matter,irterip- rico with fubtetraneous hre, whichapp aiei teat y in a moment to break forthin flan - s He then bia me look to thecall, and I law a very formidable army4—-' . ' '. : ,5approaching the city, with full pow^ todcftroy it; and they fprcad I tbeml ’.^swith fury, li*e the roaring of the fee, andthere was a trembling upon all the bills,river*, trees and ii. ’Ids but all the inhabit¬ant# of to tkr city continued in a ftupefica-tion Whe f had deliberated thsfe thingsit filled me with afto«ifhm?n> fucb ascauied my bowels to tu>*o within ue. Suchwas my disappointment, and the norrorthat feized me that 1 thought S wis netherable to bear the sight fiy from it, nor tur.<imy ground. I aslced the old man if tmight lodge all night in that b'Oth but hetold me it was not a plarefor lo ging. norwould any perfon in his right mind_ tninkit lafe to sleep fo near the city ; yet, if Ipleafed, C might come in and re.e myiielf alittle. When I entered I found tour youngmen, brethren very c trefnliy perusing 4map, making very pa'ticuliir marks anddiligent observations,and would fo:aeti.nesenquire the old man’s judg nent to informthem of the meaning of fo.ne things. Here¬upon I asked, What place it wasio muchattifcted their attention ? They told rne. itwas the map oi BaOylon and Canaan, with*11 the bounds between the two pl-ices. andbeingdetermined to leave their na ive coun¬try, and travel to the latter place was thereafon oi their present enquiries.5g 1 obferved and they ah madeprepara-b‘tioni, with vigorous refoluiba, for theirjourney. And amon^ft other con(ulutionswiththe old man, (then iuftructor) theyesrn^ft y c“aved his advice whether it wereexpedieet for each of thjm to take alongwith bi n a 'emale companion ? Which hever%* cheerfully encouraged to do, providedthe* we.e ludi as were difpofed to go theia>ne way and had ^hsir hearts engaged tofeefc the fame country. Otherwife he ad-n-oi :fhed t .etn by all means to avoid fuchcompanions as had no knowledge of or de¬light in. the way they designed to tr vel-He pointed out ro them many ".fficulties in *the way, wher* the c mpany of Grangersw« uld he of very dsngerous confequences tand further, informed them of many in-ft-r.c s, what bad effects travellers who hadfor e ly go^e tb it way, had found fromdifagietable companions, to prevent whichinconvenienc“S-,the king of ths c 'untry hadmade a jaw hat none of his fubjee s fhouldjoin wi.h ft-ing' rs to be companions in thejourney I waitc to fee what influence thisadvice would have upon the minds of thefeyoung men- But I oblervea, that, at thefi ft none of them feetntd to rtl fh hisC' uncil; tor th^y had all either contrac ed* » f v c uaintance wi h or placed theirfs* c :n ni -j 's who were na iv'S of Biby-lon. But the more they appearec engaged7in their affection*, th«; more Inflructor in-lifted oiv tbs1 danger and perni*’oaJ cohfe-que-.ces wh:ch would attend their havingfuch co mpanions, and withal told them,the king had appointed one to attend themin their journey, wh re name was Self-de¬nial without whofe company it would beimpoffible erer to reach the borders of Ca¬naan ; and that to clloofe a ftranger for acompanion, would be inch an intuit to h\nat the firft letting out, as might caufe arii'underfttnding ah the *-ay For tiiS parthe told them- that to'pretend to travel toCanaan, and to choofe a Babylonia; for acompanion, was a contradiction ; that hecould not but doubt the sincerity of theirhearts, for it was poftible for a sinerr ra-veller to chufe fuch a compjnion, yet he %was certain it cou;d not be, lo iong as theyconrinued in the right ufe of ihrir real . n ;and he muft difeharge hi* confcienceio giv¬ing them timely admonition.1 obkrved the event of thefe confultauont& I founo the eldeft whofe name was T ico-niacos, could nst be moved by all the!,: ar¬guments buf abfblmely cho*e on w to wasan utter ftraager to the p»tb> nor had ar ydelight therein, or desire thereto \ndwhen he had conventcd with her, ftteproved fo averfe to geing along With him,a d fo reluffant to puriuing his intended.tourn'y^that fhe prevailed Upon him 10 dfc»6*ift from his purpofe : fo he fettled withher in iJabyiou, \nd poor '£ heomxcus, withhis companioo, were both there when thecity was diftroyed> and perifhtd in theruins.But the fecond brother, who name wasNego.io. more regarded the counfrl givenhiii. and teemed more heedful in his choiceof a > ompanion that would be willing togoalo g with aim io at laft he met withone who appeared complable to his desire.Tho* (he had no knowledge of the way,nor desire to - alk in it, only it leemed aj:- ttcr mdiileren but as he was inclinedt >mdertakc the journey, flae would con-ot1 to compbrn'-nt him wita her com-: th.s pleafed the young man well,tt hi he would bo.h gratify him-i t''* choiee of a compa don. and alfoad ionfoetnable to his direft o.i«; but hedid net consider, that wh ie her mind vraspi. s is d with luch indifferance, her com¬pany tnufr b very ueprou table tfoweverthey joned hands ; anc fhe complimentedhi-n with her company. So they set outtogether,, as if tt^y would proceed on thejourney ; but her indifferent mind foonprevailed fo as to cool his warm affections,and caufed their advances to be very flow.I obfeved, wren ginacolomb beared ofhis hfs friend Ne^otio joining hand witha Babylonian, as he pafsed by hi* door*.3SS^SS=9he wrote upon it I chahad. As th-'ytraveled they would frequentl? sit dow inth- ft)a?Ie divert h'u feives with trides aadoft'n turu 'Side, which ir.ade their pro-; gref; very im 11; arid thht indolence pre-i V iled morf and more um il they ta ne to; a low valley by -he brink ot the river Eu-prrat>’$J where thev flcpt, there aro^e a[ iv e i in lheiiver; and the ficod fweatthomberh away. , r name wis Eu-pr.^eh'us ^WiherT'ne ncaid the admonition*ti>ry anade deep in preUions upon nismod and filled dim * ch a -fut appre-hen*ioni j he was convinced ©f the per-ntcious coidequea©-* which'would attendfu-'h company sod appeared lolicitous toavoid tlem ; but how it was, I have nowfor ;ot, whether, betore thde cousidera-tioi s, he h*d comrafted a correlpon i-onc« or whetner >f»*-rward. by d 11 i;.aceand giving la itude t h-s fane , be ; >r-gothimswlt. and w asentangied w h a daugh¬ter - f the Charlea whicn, berw x the in-ft uchon he had recc ved and nis cwn mif-guarded afieciio.., cauled lome ftruggiihgsof hi* mmd : for the perlcn was cf com¬p-ait- .tdisposit on, nor feemed at all :«'e-; lu-' nt to the things he had in view. Yethe giamly perceived fhe nad no ‘ fte tothem, and that her innate Uifposuitm was10sieve to Babylon than fV^azn ; fhclu<!n&- pTer be'D convinced of themHery and ruin Mapproachirg her native couc’ry, nor ac-quainted wit:.- the pieaivre and cidipht of Ifthe 1 nd which he was ffeek'ng after, neither |had any desire to the way, but his ftrong |inc ira?ton ftiirulatfd him to reafon uponeve^y thing in the meft advantageous l^ght,and to put the btft conflrufti ns upon every .8i*ce’wAi"’i\f^ fs^thu that her cotnplaif. Iderance or moieitetiop Tb htm ; that," byhts example he might engage her mind tothat lahich fhe h«d no inclinetion to a, pre- Jfern *, tb*t it wt* wnj hard to be prohibit¬en froci ■ ee who h; #il other relpefts ap-pejatd fo desiisbie j and that probably hedig it mver find a companion coniplezt inevery point. Ic thort h« persifted in thefekinds of reatouings, until he bad aluioUf’-upi&cd hu leofit; but ft ill could not freeliimlelf troni eoi vincinp; and dreadful ap¬prehensions of the evil of tak ng io indirecta ftep, and the inconveniences which wouldattend it, until at length, a rtlulute pafs onprevailed fo far, that his eyes were darkenedthat he Icarce perceived the day trom >henight and during this obftru&ion of hisienies he went one evening, after the funwas gone down, and joined hands with thisBaby Ionian j but when the iun stole in11th'» morning ’and -le w« a little com<,,hicnfe f '.e then became ftmible of h - rafh-nef* of his adventure, but it loo late torecal it He now (;vw into what fnare* hehad brought btmfelf, in wist 'ifficalties hewaa mvoiTcd anJ what incommouities n.uftat 'a h,s journey, and that nowheha^ novr.left, bu to make the bstl ne could Athe matter and o grapple with it as well asit fhoulo pleale Go ! to enable hna.o, after lomu b tter refteftiens, he en¬deavoured to ioiother ais grief and betakehi nielf to his journey, exerting his utmoftskill and power to take his ■ omptnion avosgwith him. Batabs l When hej .emp ed tolead her imr* the way, he found the had /• otfc>;t, the could not move a ftep furcuer thenhe muft carry her, and a heavy burthen Iheproved, > observed (bine of hi travels fthenhe met with dangers, diitr ises or di ^p-poimaveuts, he would begin to explore hisgr.it anu unbslom h:s mind t > his com¬panion, but the hao no ears, no onderlt and-ing nor heart 10 iymparh z w tn him, norwas £he capable cf kno w n. the nature ofh;s complaint, if he was belet wit;, ro+frsrs,wild beaftsjOt lerpent,, &c he would l„me-timts mak/C h;s compiaint to uer, hut iheCauld neit er aisiit nor comfort hi' ; ifhe wanted oireftious in the way {he couldnot give him any ccuaicl, it he was sick or12sprightlinefs in all 1 er feofrs, be fo pleafantwounafil wanted cord'als or oil tc hiswounds, Ihe bad nc hands to adroiniftcrrelM ; fni fbe never waj capable ofyieU inp fcini any futlcout or comfort inhis uft; inp r.titl er was fhe ever capableof partakb g ot bis ei'joyments. If he met vwith rry grreen cf ipues, or refrefinngfpripps by the way, he wcuid effrr her toe**, nd dr nk. wi;b hiif' but fhe had had notai e ; t he founo tweet flowers fhe had noft II ai di onid i a re ec delight in tlion, if.h. tad ai y dc f h tui pnjlpe«?ti» he wouldendniWur u. fhtv.; h m tc hu companion,tut flye hsd ico tyes if he met with anyitih w-:rav< llets, he v ould inviic her to en-}cy tr.cir compsny, but Ihe was never loci-a..le with 3isy perlbn who fpoite the langu¬age of Canaan, for it was a language that fhehad net learned, fhu*, whatever grief be¬fell him, cr whatever enjoyment he wasfavoured with in all his journey, he nevericuno any hu pathy or congratulation fromher, nor were her *ff. ciions oihcrwite mov¬ed th.-tii fenictimes to tiefpiie, and iome-tifljes to fliew diigutt ana ddlurbaace ofn.indi but as Hie had no life, capacity, feniepor act v.iy, to walk in the cfaolcn path, fhehad fo mi ch the more vivacity in thingspirt^inuig 10 btr own chn»fntfo that, tocraw him .aside, the would Oifduver iuch aIfaud diircHuig. and in all her conversionsfo engaging, that fee proved a very greathindrance to him in his journey ) for tho’it was not in his power to find any thing in; his way that would divert or influence hermin yet fee frequently found out fome*thing, in her own path, whiih did divert,and iniensibly draw away his heart, bywhich ht was many times entangled, andIndfn as with thick clay.Another thing 1 obfervul that after hehad begun his journey, the King of Ifrael,| (‘Sofe lubject he was) fent them femeyoung lam; s to feed, v*ith a ftrict chargk! tearh them diligentiy in the way, and bring1 them up in hit nurture & admonition Buti the performance of th'! command was ren-;n dered impracticable ; for, as he inftruncedi! them to go right, fee induced them to *an«|» der . as he endeovoured to gather them feeil fcattered them ; and as he fed them with,;i wholefome food; fee would ferfeit themi with poifencus herbs \ fe which way the1 King difpofed of them afterwatds I neverI knew, but the never proipered under hiscare. Thus, her company never yieldedt jjhim tfceleaft benefit or afsiftauce throughi lihis whtle journey, but was an alloy to all£ bis joys, and an aggravation to all his fer-f rows. And it frequently cauitd him vz ytijtuuch regret of tutnd, to thu-k of his own14un^vifed engapment, a^d bttter rsfl”'ft5f'ns ;i.or hi* neqlcft of duty, w,4!.Hcr> in; and 16ft Itime which it had be^n'fhe o casiof, ns owell as to r-bf rve thr wr ched Ihip^fica-itio f her mind which was incapable of 1fti rii g his enjoyTi>.ent or b ing -fleft dwth any of hb calamities : in omu h that Iit turned his plr. fure ourrey into a weari. .feme travel, through • Ion fome wtldernffs. |But at Ulr 4 ugh many dull hour* ian* ■ irelome ftrpi ,ie-arrivevi near the bor- |d- s o* the Imd, upon the bar* of the rivrr fcJordn, where imthe nudft of the ftre.m, |he beheld a iran in rich prieflly veltute, Iftancing to .ftop the torrent till he fpafsed over which made h’m -ipproae. the |river, txcerdipglv trapfported with j07*|Yet, even hete, he could not refrain from |sinpinr, whp he foun it was net pofsi ie Sfor his c9mpanion to go with him one It p tfurther ; but the glo; y ot his print* now |iiuv.ew.and the jot oi app caching the j:premiftd land, ioou revived his tpint, and!n ade him with readme;* Ic ve her to pals I1the river. Here hi* burthens droop d 1off, nd a!l his clog* were left behind -> he I tjw>nt on with free Ipirits and vigour, and;chearfulnels of his countenance, as f -il)things were'forgotten, but *he joy that v.a»bcfote'him. But as he waa taking lomt of tIShis laft fiffps, jwft ready to let hi* feet cnCanaan’s fhore. hetlooked behind him, andfaw her sitting upon the land and beheldthe river returning with fuch an overthrow,as ca/T ed her along the rapid iti earn intothe dead leaAs for the laft vrh>-*fe name was Curina,when he bad beard the inhruftions andadmi- ftr-tions, i wrought feriou* rc^ ,c"tionsonhu mutd and made him veiv ®- ue ® a# a per onof a bright genim, vivacit and afine mfte. he determined to den* himself,lo as when he law the beaut*, gracefulmien, and heard the courteous converla-tion of she Babylon&h maids, he wouldwithdraw am- turn away his eves, left hieheart fltould be eolrared. However, itfomet mes fell in his way to have ccnver-fation with fome who appeared very en¬gaging clpec;ally on J mina. whpie pcrlonbirth, circuaiftances, anbaccompiilhmeiits,rendered her extremely agreeable ; tcio-much, that many of his acquaintancesgrately encouraged him to purfue theopportunity and not ceglr £t lo valuable aprize, f his made him .tagger a little, forindeed Ihe wanted no accomplilbment butthe lar gu. ge of Canaan, to make her juftfuch as one as his heart could wifti andCiulc< him to realoa in his mind as follows.16Tan I expect to fin<? a perfoo more de¬sirable, or one mor Lkelv te be a h ppycomparion ?nc! he'p-meet >A.. She mar pro e fo to a perfon whoear br con J 'rn able i o ftav with h: r in Ba¬bylon, but a* * in' bncmd to another coun¬try I n:ay fir.d bi'te^-e s in that whichwonb.i give happ neJs to other.Q Bu’ Inv? I * ot r«alor; 'oliope, thsi apet ion , f her vefi ed qti#iiue* tii y b* ^n-<s»---ci wit-Vt turh hleirjis p as to m**'* {hit-able compat i<m.tcr » • j m" jou'ncy •A \ > evfcn may ' f Hccomplilh^d withall ’be ex,.tl en ies ot BaOj or f as to -p-pea up r.cr to m nv of ^ect z ns batit th-h be or.iy atcomol flitwots il etrc- country th y on os lc mt^e a graduald ffevenc br ween then & the molpeafant, wherca rhtre is z Ipectfic tfl r-cnce between a Babylonian vnd an li'a(2 BiiS is it not vet j cfnlcnous to lookon tuch a worthy pertcn as to better .hana nie.c Babylonian. .A loafniuch «t> the difference u o Rrcathat a BabvIonian cannot become a lubjectot tb e kmg <-i ilraei unkis lie be foruv d a-ecw, we cannot elitem them any other, tolent’ as there does not appear Tht peei tcteatur * of the felect Nation *, the tCiom offu,M naen olthMrbcb«»r,17lor yet an earneft enquiry after the desiredland, for we are not to form our concep-i:ion of them different from the defcriptionijiren by the Icing's scribes.Q. Is it not exceedingly hard that I muftdeny myfclf an object fo agreeable fA. The king of glory denies nothing thatijs good ; therefore, if this was really good,lit would not be denied me, he only deniesIthofe hings which he knows would be evil,and it is a real kindnefs to us to be denied; of them i but fuppofe I thought It a real; good, is it hard that he ihould deny mei one favour, who has given himfelf to me| wito all blei’sings m heaven and earth fQ. •* hat if I never find one fo agreeable,: who travels the happy road fA. If I had the object now before me,my bappinefs muft entirely depend on diebleising of God, ana have I not more rea-fon to expret a blefsing on the right wayShan on the wrorg ? Bivides, as nothing iswithr.id or denied but betaufe itisevil,what>ever God is plfai’ed to beftow in his ownway -v.uft be agreeable.Q- May not the valuable qualificationsattended this perlon oe fo b dseu, as to be amean to ma*e me nappy and ulefui in ihewav, though ihe walks not in it berieif !A Have I any reaion to expert to be15itfmade happy b«^ a perfon who i* ap ut,ftranger to thofe things wherein my hapnzis consifts ? Or can I exps** to find uffulneft in the wavt from that which canmbe enjoyed or obtained without going out cthe way f Besides what qualificctiohs fhis endued with or however valuable accotrpliibments (he is pofsefsd of it never wiiee her inclination to employ thofe excellenties to afsift others in a way fhe herielhath no delight inQ, But feting her difposition is fo agree'able and complaifant, her mind so wequalified with natural virtues and decorated withfo many aepuired ornaments, isthere any reason to doubt, but that a per¬fon thus prepared will have a tafte forlearning and eiubracicg the beft things,and mav l not therefore expert to engageher mind to walk the blelsed way.A. All the accomplifhment that a psr-fon esn pofsitfy re eive from Babylon, tannever prepare qualiify, nor difpofe themfor travelling to Canaan, ncr will they, byany means induce or incline any perfon toreceive the real knowledge or love of thatcountry for tkera is nothing in the natureof a Babylonian, without the infusion ofnea- principles, that is capable of rcliihingthe things of Canaan, but the more excel¬lent her accomplilaniicts are, the morelimate vrheacc {ht received them. And>n the other hand as I formerly was aabyloniau, though not b'efied with newprinciples the old tinfture {till remains injmy nature, which like fo much tinder, isjready to kindle with Babylonith fire ;wherefore, the greater excellencies flie is>accompliflicd with the greater inttucnce fhe(will have tT draw me into perpetual dangerof departing from the living God.ftThen he had thus realoned with him-iidelf, he made a full paufe appeared in aftrong agitation of mind, and a palenefsi(iarofs in his face. I beared him sigh andi. fay to himfelf " Whether has my mindr been roving !,J then trembling, he lift upI hi* ryes to heaven, and earneftly cried,i O God of all 1 gr^ce, deliver me fromI t. mptation ;* and from that time he neverf would regard any of the dsmfets of thecity buttfaxd ne woula wait unfil he fhculdfind a true companion, and till then hewould walk aloife So be went oa hisway, rejoicing that he had efcaped theftiare, and carrying along with him thismotto, The Lord is my portion; enjoy¬ing great fatisfaftion in his mind fayingto himfelf, “ If my king lee it good for me* to be alone 1 know he will Diels that ftateunto me i but if it be for my good to en-joy a companion, 1 know his pcodneiJt‘ will provide one for me, without my;‘goini] out of the way to find one/’But a* he was going on his way, he ob-ferved Miranda, a young virgin, who waswalking the fame road and begun to be fa¬voured with her company, but thought it,adviseablc to be very deliberate He ob-ferved whether fhe dofely attended to therigiit way : fo he perceived her taking fome-thing oui of her bofom. diligently perule itfor a while, then put into her bofom againand purfue the ftraight path. Whereuponhe went up to her, and enquired where Ihewas going ; fhe told him, to Z.on. He ask¬ed her what fhe had been perusing; fheihewed him, it was the Map of the Road,which (he took along with her for her guideHe then began to enquire who fhe was, andwhence fhe came, fhe told him fhe was bybirth a Chaldean, by education and conver-fation a Babylonian, but was now fecking abetter coum ry. He ask*d what expe&ationor encouragtmcnt ihehadin taking fuch ajourney; hie told me fhe had the King'sWord to make her an inhabitant in hisRoyal Palace when fhearrivrd at the UpperBethel, and to grant her lufficient defenceand futltnanc; ah the way thuher. He as*-21d if (hecculd bft full* fatiified in the K'ng’s▼eracity ; the told him, the frauds and jea¬lousies of Babylon had made fomt impref-fior s on her mind ; that the had found itvery difficult to believe him that comd notlie, but his Majelty had condeicenoed togive her th* ftrougeft de nonftraiions of histideiity •, (b ihat now the wa* convinced,'{hehad no reifon to doubt his goodcefs for hehau confirmed his promiie with an oath,and had given her to ice thit, in his ownrecords it was fcaled with blood , thathitherto {he had foune h s word verified toher. in ftrotgly defending and abundantlyfupplying her wants, lo that {he cauld letto her (cal that he was true ; ihe alto askedhim divers qu*itions rel ting to his travelsand enjoyments and he likewife anfweredher in a tree and latisfadWy manner lothat their afie£hons b gan to warm towardsbne another : it was a very comfortable in¬terview and their minds were refreinedwith each others converi'ation.They appeared io agreeable one to an¬other, ihct he began to thn k they migtxtbe plealan ana profitable companions all theway ; but tirlf he retired to deliberate onthe converlation that had a ready paisetkWhen: the more he thought of her diligencein the purfuit of her journey, he fixed fatis-fadiou concerning the end of it. her under-22Ranging in thefe thinsg, laid down for thogu ding her in the way, and the delightflbe appeared to take in meditating on,and conversing about the joy of the Cityof Habitation, See. the more he was fatis-uea that fhe was a prince’s daughter, tra¬velling to the Royal Palace : and whenhe had up his eyes to heaven, andearneftlybefougnt God for direction, and a blefsingupon their farther conv rf'ation, he againcame into her compan*. After fome furtherdifeourfe he asked her reafon fo walkingalone: She tolu him, fhe found but fewtravelling the fame road, and fhe did notthink it expedient to turn aside, or neglecther way for any company If fhe met withcompany, fuch as delighted in the ways ofwifdom.fhe took pleafure therein, for withfuch company, fhe wss refrclbed and wasftrengthened in her iourneyi but otherwilefhe Choie rather to be alone, to divert her-fc)f in examining her map, viewing thefprings by the way, fruit trees and flowers,hearing tl^e singing of birds meditatingon xhe glores of her prince and the joys fhefhould have in bis prefence. Sec. io thattho’ company was pleafent when fhe couldenjoy it, tiie delights in the way fupplisdthat want; and upon the whole, fhe neither25W’s arxiou* to have companv, nor had anyWirt agai'-.ft it. Her d lign being to en-j .y that only -which be moft conduc¬ive to f'rward her in he w y.He then propo td, that since they hadfot).- d each others con^erfat ou corufortab eand ufcful; it ini ,ht he f r their mutual ad-i vantage to join together, 8c engage to keepi company ail the way She told him, it wasnot for ptrfons of h"ir profession to do any: thing r fhiy, fhe wouL deliber*te on it; foI {be retired and prod rated herlelf before theiKiug her Father, telling h m the matter,iimploring wifdom to dirtct; declaring her*lifelt willing to enjoy or be denied any thing,do it were according to bis will, and might'tie for his honour. He told her, fhe hadialr-ady been informed, and well knew,what manner of perions they mult be, withwhom it would be expedient for kings'daughters to keep company; but if fhefound the peifon to be of the bl ol-royal,and endued with princely quadtics, fhe washt h r full liberty., and moreover, by him itjihould be tfteemed honourable. So whenjihefe two lovers met again, ban deliberately<t«nfulted between thcmlrives ah fuch thingsis they conceiv .d nccelsary rela g to fucheng.getntnt, considering the king's ita-imes thereupon, and jointly petitioned hist3*Majefty’s oresife wi n them osdhis blcii-iiig on their urder aking, tuejoaned hand*with great iati»fa£iion and ierrnity ot mindtrejo cing to fee thrmfclves preferv from fomany fnares and thus happily united by adivine hand.FINIS.