iTHES A I N T S’ DUTY 14 INEVIL TIMES.IN T WOSERMONS,Preached from Ifa. xxvi. 20.f Mr. Jambs Renwick, Minifter of theGofpel, who fulfered in the Grafs-MarkAbf Edinburgh, upon the 7th day of Fe¬bruary, 1688.pv. xviii. 10 The name of the Lord is a frotigip'U't'r •• the righteous runneth into it, and are fafe.1 tlm xlvi. I. God is cur refuge andfrength, a veryprefnt help in trouble., -&STIRLING:PRINTED BY C. RANDALL.1801.T H ESAINTS’ DUTYi NEVIL TIMES.ISAIAH XXYi.' 20*Come my people, enter thou into thy chambers. atuljKnthy doors about thee ; hide tbyfef as it ivert, Jomk,little moment, until the indignation be overpafl. .■&THE bowels of the Lord’s fympathy towai».his people, are always burfting out, anu ft{|'.dow not fee them foriakjng their own mercy, an«ftraying from him; but is much taken up in Ajnenting over their folly, and with giving them m|)|ny a moving and fweet invitation to come to hiflwhere their happintfs lies and lays himfelf open*!;them, and the riches that are with him, with 1mrarms fpread abroad, inviting them by his p red Atand hearty promiles, feeking nothing of folk, hutcsnly, That they would * come and receive freeBfc.Ifa. Iv i. * Ho, every one that thirlleth come yell,* the waters, and he thauhath no money ; come yiti:• buy and eatj yea, come, buy wine and nTk, viihi«■ out money, and without price ’ He opens npyprM,cious and rich ware, and fays to his buyets aiSdtmerchants, the commod ty is good, coinewe fhall not caft out about the price; if ye hhearts to receive, I have a heart to give : Co»way then, hearty good-fellows, we will never ft: 'upon it: for ’tis not with him as with the metthe world, for they count them the heft good- -lows, who give molt and freeliell > but he cot‘The Saints' Duty. - 3li the beft good fellows, who will take moftfreelieft ; and he debars none from him, butovers his riches, and invites all, R v xxii 16^< I am the root and offspring of David, ande bright and morning-ftar And the t pint ande bride fay come, and let him that heareth, fay,me, and let him that is athirft come. And[rofoever will, let him take of the water of lifeeely ’ . And if this, and fitch fweet invitationsl not prevail, he makes taws to whip his own to3ft:f : terrors within, and judgments without}l he never lays on a blow, but he is ftiil provokedit, and when he lays it on, the tears are in hisjs, becaufe he muft do it, Lam. iii. 23. For he(h not ; ftfft willingly, nor grie.veth the childrenthen,” yea* when his own rmn their backs upon.0, he lets them no1 alone, but is ftill cafirtg them,tk again, Z ch. i. 3. “ Turn ye unto me faith| Lord of hobs, and I will ti vn unto you, f , hjLo; d of hofts ” And alio, . nerrhe threat nsM't fadly, he fails riot to make large pr .'mifgs oI faithful, and to give them ample invltad ns “ tobe to him,” for their pleafure and for their fefety,tome my people," &c. When the Lord is coin-| out of hi' place, to fit in judgment upon thelabitants of the e ^rth and to give out fciitence.pn them, according to their doings, and to pu¬la them for their iniquities, he calls lais owh peo-| to himfelf, where they are to be hid and pre-vc i. O hand ftill amazed, an I wonder at h.’sjder love, and fatherly care of his children, -'ho 'I'icome with his cloak of zeal, and clothes of ven-pnce, to give out, and to execute h s fentence of|iicfeapon his enemies, until that he gave his p. 0-| fair warning thereof -, an;! alfo invites them totetr Ihelterand fafety, which.he hadt prepared forifem. Ye know, Ezck/ix. the Lord ten ts firth.'4 The Saints' Duty5nk*horn by his fide, to fet a mark upon th? fot|heads of them that figh and cry, for all the abomJsiations that be dene in the earth,” and commantihis men, with the flaughttriftg weapons in thehands, to go after, “ And imite, and not fpar!nor phy, but to flay utterly, old and young, bot;rinaids, little children and women ; but not to comrBear thefe upon whom the mark is fet ”Now the Lord hath men prepared with flaueh'eri5ng weapons in their hanrs to kill a fliceifice at Bcl[>.rah in Scotland, cf prelates and malignants, and*backfliding miniftei s and prtfefibrs j he is cominj!to be avenged on that curfed throne, and the foil,porters thereof, for the cruelty done ag;*intt hint!»nd of mirifters and p-oftfibrs; for their he noJftreachery towards him ; and this is his comroiffio#and our charge unto you, to invite and to call ytf® >and all that will give ear unto this Rock of ages, fdiyour ihdter, unto the chambers of his prefen||and protection, where ye {hall be faved with delight! ■O come my people,” in wlvch words ye havefjFirft, An invitation, “ come.” .Secondly, The peMTons invited, or the determination thereof, “people ” Thirdly, I bat which they are invited tint®'The chamber of the Lords protection and ptwfence, whereunto he invites them to “ ent-ernFourthly, Their carriage, and that which they a$Tio da there, “ Shut thy doors about thee, and hi®1.thyfelf, as it were, for a little momt.nt.” Fifthly!the fafety of thefe chambers, being an hiding placejr*c until the indignation be overpaft ;!> or ratheTthe determination of the continuance of their hid¬ing, “ until the indignation be over-palt ”As to the firfl, The invitation, “ Come O come,'ia homely word indeed ; this is no Ids than, ~hold me ! behold me !” Here is enough to gifijand here is willingnds to give, only come, on!receive, only take, and ye ihall pot wapt.In Evil dimes'. f*it to enlarge a little, we lay down a twofold(rine. Deft. Firft, « There is both abilit;,' and|llingne's in the Lord, to give you whatfoevec.ar neceflicy requires.”^bilitv.’ What would you have ? Salvation anditerance, then ‘ He is able to fave to the utter-|ft, ill that come unto him,' Heb vii 25. Liftid'our eyes and behold a wonder, which ye cannotfid, behold a wonder, which you cannot know*|put forth this queftion, Ifa. Ixiii 1. * Who ist that cometh from Edom, with dyed gar*'J|ts from Bozrah ? Tdis that is glorious in hist■“ipel, travelling in the greathefs of his ftrength ?I his anfwer will be umo you, It is ’ l that fpeak:ghteoufnefs, mighty to fave * Gain-fay it who‘ 1'he plealure of the Lord fltall profper in hist1, he fliall fee of the travail of his foul and befied ’|ow metbi’.iks I hear you faying, All that is true*jjr30 fet our feals to it-: but O, is he willing?e is our qneftion Wil ing indeed, he is note able than he is willing, ‘ What are all histellies, but declarations of his free wiliingnefs ?I at are all h;s fweet inv itations, but to tell youhe is willing and yeti are welcome ? He thatfteth let him come and wuolbever will, let him;and take of the water of life freely.’ Ah 1;U fay' you to it now ? Give us your leal to hisIngneis alfo. Go, fay ye, why not ? Ye hav©I hen come away there is no fnore wanting,fcome ; we know he is willing and we let our01 to his williugoefs. But is he willing to receive~ Satisfy me in that, 6nd then I will be right,j, cheat • ye are taking your word back again|, and lifting off your feal ; if ye except notHdf, he will not except you : His invitation is1 ail; every one come, he that thirfteth, come,_hath_no_mone/, “ come.” Ifaiah lv. 1.'5 ^the Saints' DutyNow wSi« ye be fo ill to yourfdves, as tob»r yourfe1v< s ? For he doth not do it; ye may iwell, and as rationally fay, that you are not a bod]as io fay, he debars you. His invitation is to eveion“ Now aflenjt to this, and then, before you e:cept yourfelf out thereof, you muft then not havebeing, ne ither of foul nor body We fay, for y<to think that he excepts you, it is all one as to d<ijv yourfelf to be the children of Adam. Nowcome, come niggard, what aileth thee ! ComSjwhat would you have, that is not in Chrift ?what fweet inviration, < come,’ we cannot tf 11is in it; there is a depth in it that all the angelsheaven cannot fathom ; it is no lefs than JelChrift, ‘ who was delivered for our offences, a:* was raifed again for our juftification,’ fpreaditforth his arms, and inviting you, he is coming ujhimfelf, his all-fuificlency and fuperafcendant e»|celiency, and calling unto all poor needy thinjcome, here is enough for you ; give me your detirtand y<'u fhall have them fatisfieti to the full. Wlithen have ye to fay to the bargain ? c^me, come*is a rich commodity, and there is no. flicking at dprice, onlv receive and have, the eafieft of all term!there is no more required at your hands. .But, la;ye, Ha* Sjr, ye go without your bounds, the inwtation In your uxr., is to his people, ye are all wrong-!Wt. are hot fo far Cut, as ye trqw ; the -invitation!is to his p opie,, to ‘ enter to their chambers,’!and to all, who wili come and become his people*to ‘ enter into thrir chambers,’ and fo this is »free market. We mult invite all to come, ye whoaro enemies, lay down your arms againft him, andlCome ; ye who are upholding his enemies, and com*plying with th m in their finful ceunes and abomi¬nations, by-paying them refs and locality, and byfurrifhing them meat and drinV, (which n- morein Evil tfitnet. Jihoft, by the mouth of J^Vm, for^Ms, fecOrt^!fk e of John, 10 verft*) Quit the pnrting the|rd in God’s cnerniei’ hinds, ^nd come : ye whae givsn. bonds to the adverfary break yourvenant with hell and death,* and come: break:r fword allegiance to the devil, and come, andar a new allegiance to Jefus Chrifl:. and ye fhaller rue it, ye who comp ar before their courtspay them fines, whereby both ye acknowledges^jm robbers of God, an 1 call your duty your fi& j •fe courfe.F, and come, ye who go to the cu-Sj leave theie perjured blind guides and conv-;: ye‘o go to the hdulged. lerve thefe traitors to God.hp go to the backflidden fi ent minilters, leave!e betrayers of the cauie, and deferters of thei f Chritt, and come leave all tbefe and followhe is a true guide, and will be fo unto you,a any ways t>eSc or take the enemies’ proteftion,that and come ; come to-him, an t 'ye fhall findrevivers- indeed, borh for fafety'and delight All•t arc Itran. era to, him, co ne, ye that are income, arid ye that know him 'Come -We multi that word come, unto you lo long as we aree-mil ye be transplanted out of this fpiritualfart , iiv-o cely dial triumph C) Sir?, come,,come,what ye w,ii at d he will five it; O come, come.fNow, it were reqnidce here to lhe\r you, who ithat comes unt-r. Chrilk who it is that comes not jwill come av fitly in tne fecofu' thing which wee notietd in the words, and fo we protecS unto it.[’he fecond thing, ye know, was this,, the per-s invited, or the determination of the invitati -n,iy p ople.’ Thefe are they whom he invites toir chambtrs ; his people, they who lubfcribe toterms of h s covenant, which is, ‘ I will beour Go ;, and ye fhali be my people ;* they who.kc a c ovenant with him by facnfice, they who'iam zili lun‘ °°710 b; ■‘cc':°t,:J throuel‘tlieS The Saint? Dutyfacrlfice of liis Son, and they who facrifice them- ]’felves to him, they who cfpoufe him to be their |;[Cod, and h's quarrel and concernment to be theirs, jBut before we enter upon what we propofed, weproceed to the third thing in the words, to make jway for it, and fo (hall return.The third thing was this, their chambers where- ^ ,anto they are invited to enter •, that is, the chambers : tof the Lord’s prote&ion and prefence, what arel^tbefe chambers do you think ? Afk at Solomon, and ;,ire will tell you, Prov. xviii. to. “ Che name of the j,* Lord is a ftrong tower, the rirhteous run into ir ! (* and are fafe.’ It is Jefus Chrift that ye are invited®arnto ' iDo£l. 2. « Tbefe chambers are btfe, and they |i* who are therein, need not frar wrath,’ fee for the ||confirmation of this point, ffa. xxxii. 2. ‘ A man r•* fhall be as an hiding place from the wind,, and a f« covert from the tempefi, as rivers of-water in a i* dry place, as the fiiadow of a great rock in a wea- 1< ry land.*There is the defeription of thffe chambers, tiv vare chambers of fafety, no wind can win there into ! >them, no tempeft can overtake them who are there, .ye are jvithout the flood tnark of the wrath of God,| j/an.d they are chambers of delight, ye will not want 1 jrefrefhing : they are ‘ rivers of water in a drv place, j,* the fhadow of a great rock in a weary land wecannot commend them unto you, for they pafs theeloquence of angels to do it, but enter thefe, andye fhall fipd more than we can tell you, epter, andye fhall find more than ye will be able to tell your-i’eives : Enter, we fay, that is the invitation : But yewill fay, how fhall we enter ? What is requifite forftpr entering ? What will take us in ? Anfwer, Faith,That is the thing will take you in : that is the keythat opens thefe doors, the ufe of the means andiii Evil ‘Times. ${>f farfti; but take notice, it is true faving faith, it!s neither hiftorical, temporary, nor the faith of mi¬racles ; but it is faving faith, whereby Chrift is onlyreceived and reded upon ; it is faith as an inftru-neni apprehending the obje&, Chrift: It is that’• ayi which taketh you in.But for your more clear uptaking whereof, con-fider what is reqailite in true laving faith. Firit,A. deep light and fenfe of your loft condition, thatre are deftroyed, 1 able to the wrath of God andjail the curies m the law. Secondly, A fenfe of this,^ th it there is'nothing in you or that ye can do, thati v: 1 help you, it h beyond all createdf power to re-cover you, and fo, not at all feeking to eftablifli a:fetf-righteou(hels, it is, ‘ Come unto me ye that la-■* bear and are heavy laden, and I will give you reft*‘Thirdly, A right fenfe of the all fufiiciency that is in‘Jefus Chrift, and his excellency drawing the heartout after him, as all the delire of the foul, and lo[ ‘doling ymh him. Therefore, ye who rerqain fenfe-! ! Ids of your loft condition, have a care ; ye are noti hyet in thefe chambers.But that it may be made clear unto you, confidefmoreover, if ye woull enter into thefe chambers:| Firft, ye mull ciofe with Chrift jilone, there multi nothing have a {hare in the meritorious caufe inI: bringing you there, but himfelf only } ye muft notj; lay part of the weight upon him, and part onyourfelves and your dudes : No, no, he muft eitherl have it all on his back, or elfe he wid have none ofi it, therefore take heed to yourlelves Secondly,| Y ou muft clofe with full Chrift, as Prophet, Prieft,1 : and King ; as a Prophet to teach you his will; hemuft h your fchool-mafter ; as Prieft, through1 whofe ficrifice only, the Father muft accept you,1‘ and who cont'mualiy makes inierciflion at his righthand for you j and as King, fo IVay a feepfre in, your louls to rule you. according to his own tawJO The Saints’ Dufyand to caft down, and to call out every thing exalt«|in; itjelf again;! his kingdom within youO iuke heed, ta this, ye who regard not his wil!,;; 1ye who give h«m not a throne in your hearts :' with¬out this, ye a not ‘enter .into thde chambers/!and aflure yourfelves, if he were reigning in youi ,\v would care more, contend more for his king-1 •.dom without jou, and in the world Take heed tojtir.s, ye who care not tho’ a tyrant poflefs his-'1throne, and as it were, fpoil him from his pr .r ely*robes : take heed to this, ye who itaud not to hold ifdown his kingdom, by upholding his enemies.;Thirdly, You tiuft ^if ye would enter into thefejchambers) clrfe with all the inconyenlencies thaja [?follow him, his crols mull be taken up Luke ix.'l23> 24- ‘ ^ ahy man will come after me, let him i.* deny himieif, and take up his.crois daily, and fol- ■* low me For whomever will lave his life lha.ilofe i;* it : i'ut whefoever will Iqfe his life for my lake, i|* the fame fhall lave it.’ Whatever he cal's you un- Ito n.ufl ke embraced : your heart muft fublcribe tothe reaionablenefs and defirabienels of every one oftlvfe inconveniences, but let us charge their names ]tand call them conyeniences and Chnltian advanta- iges, and fo we may ; for they are of fpecial ypod Jufe tc Chrillians ; thefe are a part of the diicipiine ^ ^of Chi ill's fchool, and fome fay, ti is is David’s r!meaning Pfalm cxvi. 13. where he Fays, « I will take :'ti e rup of faivition ’ t hat is, as the) fay, the cup,] '. of afflibtion, as that whereby the Lor* works ’.he F;;falvation of his people; and fo indeed the cup of af- 'fliftion may be called the cup of falvation Nowtij.it.is the way ye muft go,fjfe. O come away, let us hear what ye fay to itAte e willing (to enter'this way fhmk upon it. 1This is the wayye mult ent r, and in our teriipg of *'■it; we may tremble to think upon this genet a-ion* Jwho will not dole with thde (lo d-lled; incur.veni*in Evil Times. t iWe have no Ikill of people’s clofing with(rift, who will not dole with thefe. But Oh*/hat fav ye unto us ? What is your reply ? Is it nots, ‘ That neither death nor life, nor angels, nor►rincipaUties, nor powers, nor things prefent nor| hings to co ne, nor h“i6ht, nor depth, nor anyither creatufc, (hall be ab:e to feparate us fromhe love of God, which is in Ch'rift Jefus our Lord.*this your faying, then come away, take him,ce on his yoke, ‘ For his yoke is eafy, and hisj mrden light.’Follows the AfternoonE R M O N.Isa. xxvi. 20. Ccme my people, Zs’j.MIS is the way that folk undo themfelves, an 1’X forfake their own mercies ; that which ought!> chafe them to God, chafes them out from him.tl hypocritical convidions only put them the fur-ier away from the phyfierin, 10 it is with judg¬ment, which flhould pat folk to their duties, theyre thereby put from it. When the Lord furbi/hes;is glittering (word of jufticef then it is to drive his*vn children o hs own hand, ‘Come myieople,’ *cc Ye know the laft occafion how we<di-ided thele words ; ye know alfo, how tha- beforepe left the Tirtt head, w^ faiu, ic wovld be requilitea (how unto you, who it is that comes to Chrift,rid who it is that comes not : But we told you,(hit it would edme more lit./ in thi iecoud heddi12 27^ Saints’ Dutyyetj to make way for ’t, we proceed forwards urj.to the third thing in the words And now havin ,touched that a little, we return again, as we tol .you, we propofed to do, and ftill (as the Lord wi; •enable) open the Second Head, further declaringwho are his people ; ta ivt.Thefe, as we were faying, who have made a co ivenant with him by facrihce to be accepted onhthrough the facrifice of his Son, and who facrifidjif.away th'emfelves unto him. In a word, it is thefe iwho are righteous, and who live righteoufly Theff ;who are righteous, are thefe who have fled untc!;-Chrift for his righteoufnefs, and have gotten them-felves clothed therewith. But that ye may the]more clearly take up, who thtfe are that come un- ■to Chrift; before we give you fome marks of them. 5and .oifie rules how to apply thefe marks, we fhalff£rft declare who it is that come not.Firft, Thefe come not unto Chrift, who come >rot from all fin, Ezek. xviii 21 ‘ But if the wick- 1* ed will turn from ail fins that he hath committed!< and keep aU my ftatutes, and do that which is ;* lawful and right, he Ihall furely live, he {ball not 1* die.’ Ye fee the cordition, it 1s .if he Will turn rfrom all fin, both omifiion and Commiffion ; from .all fin, unto all duty; leaving all fin, and tak'n.' up ,all Chriftian duty Fhtrefore remember, if ye ei ter- rtain any one one idol, that will keep Chrift put. Ma-bny fay of fome idol fin, that they dp not quit, as jLot <aid of Zoar, ■* It is a little one, therefore let .1* me brook it,’ but remember what David fays, ‘ if !* I regard iniquity in my heart, the .Lord will not if‘ hear me,* Ffal Ixvi. 18 Remember this and de- l;ftroy not yourfi Ives, ye who follow not gfdfs fwear-ing drinking or whoring, and the like, yet cleave Jutito your petty minched oaths, and your id:e vain }difeourfe, and your light converfation. O remem- .ber this, ye who have any predominate, whole head 1 *ye clap; your right hand and your right-eye finsmuft Dfc cut off, and [Hucked out, before you canenter into the kingdom of heaven : I fay, if ye en¬tertain any predominate, it (peaks out this, Thatye would as well entertain all fins, if your inclina-ons were as bent upon them, and that ye do notlea\ - them, as they are hateful to God, but only,as they are not fo de'ightfome or hurtful unto you.0 ! take heed, except ye repent and amend, 4 ye* (hall all likewife perish * Remember this ye mo¬ral civilians, who are not chargeable with groi's pro¬fanity in your private walk, yet have your handsimbrued in blood, and have them defiled with pub¬lic land-fins, which procure land judgments! Yetake a liberty to pay cefs, and fines and tiends to.Baal’s priells,and to do many other things to fixength-u en the enemies of oar Lord, and condemn his caule,1 fay take heed to yourfelves; ‘ except ye repent and‘ amend, ye (hall all likewife perifh.’ Rememberthis, ye who turn not to make up all Chrifhan du¬ties with you ; ye think it enough ye babble overtwo or three words at night and at morn to your¬felves, tho’ you fet not up the worfhip of God inycur families, and if you do that, ye think thatju enough, tho’ ye neither pot to your hand to a£lwith the Lord, nor fyinpathizs with his afflifted‘ people, nor embody yourlelves in fociety with them,j to cry for all the abominations of the land. O takeheed, « except you repent and amend, ye (hail all‘ likewife perifii.’Secondly Thefe come not unto Chrift, who tho*-they may come a great length, not to be chargeableby man, neither with omillio i nor .commiffion, yetreft there; all that will not take them to heaven.Paul before his convtrfion, he reports of him'elf,Phil. iii. 6. ‘ was touching the rightcouiuefs, whichis in the law hlamelefs.’ He waa as trim a iegalift asithe beft of you ; but tnark what he fays of himielf14 The Saints’ Dufyin the 7, 8, and 9 verfes, * But what things were‘ ga! to me j thole I counted iofs for Chrift, yea,{ d u' defs, and I coilnt'all things but lofs for the‘ exc. i ency of the knowledge of Chrift Jefus my* Lord, for whom I have fufftred the lofs of all« things, and do count them but dung, that I may* win Chrift, and be found in him, not having •'\ne^ ‘ own righteoulntfs, which is of the law, bu: that* w ,;ch is tbro’ the faith cf Chrift, the righteouf-* ncis which is cf God by faith’ There is thatwhich ye muft only reft on, and no where elferhue upon the ccmpleat and inherent righteouinefsof Jelus Chrift, therefore take heed how yc build.Thirdly, Thefe come fcot unto Jtfus Chrift, whofeed themftlvesup in that deluding fancy, that theyhave not fa much need of him, as others have, byreafon of their thinking their iins but little fins. Oyfay feme, I am not like the profane and wicked )What then need l fear ? O poor fool, mind what-the apoftle tells ths, Gal iii. 10. ‘For in fuch ai* cate, thou art under the law, and as many as are of* the vyorks of the law, are under the curfe, for it‘ is ritten, cuffed is evefy one that contintteth not* in all things which are written in the law, to do‘ them ’ A pen- knife can take away the life as wellas a broad Iword: Indeed, I think the cafe of thewicked and profane is more hopeful than thy cafe,becaufe they will be T oner gotten convinced of thenec flity of repentance nan thouwiit.Fourthly, hefe come not unto Chrift:, who, be¬came they meet with favourable difpenfations, andgreat proof* of ihe Lord’s general providences,thereupon conclude all is well with them Thinkupon chat Davi^ fays, Ffilzn xvli. 14 ‘ From men« which are thy hand, O Lorn, from men of the* world, wnich have their portions in tnis life, end‘ whole belly thou fideft with thy h»dtr.afure . :neyfare full of children, and leave the reit of their jIln Evil 'Times. I ^fubftance to their babes * ‘ None knoweth love orhatred by ail that is before him.’ Eccl. xiFifthly, Thefe come not to Chrift, who think alls right v-ith them, becaufe they are not challenged,h fheir confciehces. O mad fools, whofe.heartsire felled with obduration, the faddeit place in! 11 the fciip'ures holds forth your cate. Hof. iv.| 7. ‘ Ephraim is jcined to his idols : Let him aldne.’Vhrn they t'rop into hell, the fire thereof wih fooni urn up that thick Ikin that is grown upon your*onfciences.Sixthly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, who reftpon their apprehended lorre\**for fin. O, fay they,am not fuch a fool as to think ail'is well, becaufehjwant challenges, but beinufe I have them : Re-- member Efau, remembet- Judas, your building upontt ur forrows and tears, is like a man that buildsIpon a flow-mofs.* 1 Seventhly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, who' all off toe common road of fin into duty a’d reft|iere : Mind what our Lord fays of the conceited[frariiee, Luke xviii. u, 12, 13, and 14* That|f<o’ he was not an extortioner, unjuft, nor an: jjdulterer, and h fted twice a week, and paid tithesft A1 that he had pofli.fled, yet he went not downE> Ins houfe fo jwftified! as the poor publican did •,tt, je will -ay, 1 tm la tr< m fvvearing, drinking,ft- an.' lave betaken my felt to the fociety of the" pop.e' of God i and I read and pray, 8cc. there-ue au is well. O poor foul, thy c.fe is now vv0rTej an ever. O we tremble to think upon the mul-• ' :ude that pray themleives intp hell : 1 his is Da-id indeed, who kills n.s ten thoufands. What!' iall I liken ymu to ? Ye are like a man that digt;- h.:ep down,.and cafts out the old earth brings virth of his own meuid, but goes not the u • . of' le rock.Lightly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, who even1(5 The Saints’ Dutygo that length, as to aflsnt to the fpiritual mean¬ing of the law, and reft there. This is much in¬deed ; this is a great length, yea, a greater lengththan the moft part of you, who are hearing me thist(day, have come unto, and yet they are far from thekingdom of heaven. Obferve that pafiage, Markxii. 32, 33. Where a leribe anfwered our Lord, and,1laid, ‘ To love the Lord with all the heart, and*t* with all the ttnderfhnding, and with all the foul^ ** and with all the llrength, and to love his neigh-‘ hour as himfelf, is more than whole burnt oflcr-i‘ ings and la^rifices ' To whom our Lord replies*34 verfe, ‘ iTiou art not far from the kingdom of‘ God.’Ninthly, Thefe come not unto Jefus Chrift, who-have common gifts, and reft there O, fay ye, Ifind a faculty of prayer, I want not words enough!,and get them bravely let upon the'pins: and 1 havegreat knowledge of the feriptures, and I am ftraight;and not biafTrd in my judgment; and what need!nan (as I) fear ? O deluded fuu1, confider :fuch awhat Paul fays, 1 Cor. xiii 2 ‘ t hough 1 have the4 gift of prophecy, and underftanding all myfterhs‘ and all knowledge, and tho’ I have all faith, fo that'* l could remove mountains, and have not charity,* am nothing.* No doubt, Judas had much of thisGod will give gifts unto perlons, for the behoof and radvantage of others ; but when he gives grace,is ay for their own advantage ; yea, the devilbetter gifted, and hath more knowledge than allyou have-Tenthly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, who fulfer many things materially"tor the truth, and havifome feeming fruits thereof, and reft there : do nothink that your luftering your goods to be fpoiled!and yourhlves call out of your habitation betore yfcomply with the enemy, ts a ground, from whidi!ye may conclude all to be right: Nay, I tell yotijX« Evil Tifflis.r lh? Apoftle fays, x Cor. xiii. Though ye fhould1 tftow all ypur goods to feed the poor, 1 tho’ I givej ny body to be burned, and have not charity, itf rofits me nothing Yea, the fame aportle fup-feth, Gal iii. 4. That there may be fuch. fuf-j ling in vain ‘ Have ye fufFered fo many thingsi n vain ? If it be in vain ’ There are many of1 m that are fuffering this day materially for Chrift ;iaterially, vre fay, and not formally i for hypo-tites never win to fincerity in their doings anti! fterings, nor do to them as to God ; and yet heI d! get he'd to fuffer in throughout all eternity:,<ta, a man when his credit is hraitly engaged, he1 jay g've his life for the caufe, and yet get hell Lr; ijs reward! j Eleventhly, Thefr come not unto ChrifV, who haveulv a hiftoricat and temporary faith,-in/lead of a•-j Sving faith, tho’ ye (houtd believe all the truths in ‘;se Bible, yet that will hot av^il you, the deviis“E'deve and tremble'; yea, tho’ you fhould givejour• meral affent to the way offalvation by Chrifi, yet' jhlefs you receive and embrace him and reft uponlin, ad will be for nought: Look the cafe of this■ ‘I topic; Ifa xlviii 2. ‘ Who calf themlelves of t heholy city, and ftay themfelves upon th> God of li-iraei !’ but what fays the Lord of them ? * Yet notin truth nor in righteoufnefs O take heed what? are^loing, and do not deceive yourfelves, for yelay win this length, as to be convinced, that it istod to come unto Chrift, and think ye have doneJ „ being blinded by your pride, and may fome waypmfort yourfelvcs, ar if ye had done it, in thispur prelu'mptyous dream, and yet really never havepne it: never realty, have been trough: to denysur own righteoufnefs, and to receive Chrift, rcly-• -g only upon him for attaining life through his righ-: . louln- fs and fatisfa&ion.^^velfthly^^hei^com^io^m^Chnft^wh^^^t S The SalnU* Dutyhave only the common operati :>f the Spirit, up- [on the affection within, and re . tnere, conclude !•that all is well with them. We hav a’ready fpokenof the danger of reftihg upon apprehended fcrrew ;for fin, fo there may be much alio of the flames cf Vjoy. ten^ernefs and heart meltings, which hvpo-i i..crites ma^’ have at fome times by another Confideg ,thefe who were John’s he-rerr, John v. 35. ‘ Who r« for a feafon rejoiced in his light ’ O 1 In ware of ,gofpel hypocrites take net flalbes for c nve fion. 1:It it could be determined how gr-at a length hype-j,.,crites may come, we think it w'>uld refl here. Owhat (hall w fay of it! do what they will, and k.come as- great a length as they can, thev never come!!;unto Chrift, who are not fully denied to themfetvesand_ pofitively only reft upon J‘fus Chrift, for juf-tification and fanclification. frue faith hath twonvoices, Firft, it calls and cries, O firmer, lean not tto thyfelf. reft not there. Secondly O firmer, reft ;on Jefus Chrift and lean unto l.imfelf. •;Now O believers, fearch and try yourfclves, sfit about it earneftly, this is your work, and it willnot be done flumbering and fleep ng. There arein any of you beye this day,, who are not come the j,length of tome of thele tups, which we have nam-; ted r yet, ye may come through,them all every one,tand if ye go not further, ye tvill re- er win to Chrift HAnd in his name I tell you, ‘ Except your righto-!‘ oul'nsfs exceed the rigliteoufnef- of the Scribes ;‘ and Pharifees, ye cannot enter into the kingdotjS j:* of heaven.’Ye know, we give you dome hints of thefe whc ;.are the Lord's people via. ‘ fhefe who have comr 1.4 unto Chrift,* are made righteous, and live righteoufiy : and for the more clearing of it, we nowdeclare who thefe are, who have come unto him „by giving fome marks and evidences, how the tarntj..nniv hr iennu n. VV,. are nnt of. » hrinai:In Evil Time* '. 19■ it Cnrlft,’ as a creature by creation and preservation,-■A ior as a member externally, but as a member inter¬nally and effectually, bi(t ye will fay, how is that ?1 4vf. By the ftriCt union and communication bttwixtthrift arid the Chriftians, whkh is from the ftriCl:-•3i efs of the bond ; to -wit, H’s word and Spirit on1 its part, and faith and love on their part. Now are■’ay, how will that be known ? Well, we will ^iveoil ou thefc marks ; therefore try youffrlves. For,Firft, If ye be com° to Chrift, then ye will fiad• a you, a hatred of all fin naturally, and a defire toI H good, though often ye may fai; in the p rform-tnce, Rom. vH 15. Pan! lays, « 1’hat wrhich Idol■'it fallow not, for wh t I wou'h1, that I do nor, butsfwhat I hate that I do.’ 1 J >hn iii. 8 ‘ Whofoever::i abideth in him finne h not to -wit, Fi.rfi Purpof-• dly, Secondly. Willingiy, Phirdly, ciffeCf'on^tely,Hi fourthly, not unto death : For 'he Lord’s peopleii ave, (1.) Grief. 2d Care to recover. (3.; ft-r toin. O! can ye run on in fin, without res urning andd are of repentance; if it be fo, ye are not in thisII |ving root.■; . Secondly, If ye be come unto CP ’rift, then ye will:i ind this in you, a rich' and high tfteem of the■* yord’s merry, he and his taWatioh will be only pre-uious in your eyes, ‘ Bltfitd is he whole ttanlVref-: ;fion is forgiven, wf ole fin is covered,’ Pfalm xxvii.■ ; That will be your thoughts. •Thirdly, If ye. be come unto Chrift, ye wil' findthis in you, a love unto the way of holiness, as weltis happinefs itiidf: Yea your heart will befo drawn- IFtCr that noble device of faivation, feeing all theglorious attributes of God io Ihining therein, thatre would in no ways be (Tontent to go to heaven an-»ther way, than that glorious way, though it couldj® had, and this is all the Lord requires of you,: nly a pleafirg the device. This rs the brazen ler-•50 The Saint? Dub}pent, which you mud. look unto for healing. Ocome away.Fourthly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then ye will :find this in you, an acting upon God as he a£b up- .on you ; hath he called you ? then ye will call upon (.him : hath he. jufttfied you ? then ye will juf- S; ’tify him.Fifthly, If ye be come unto Chiid, then ye will ,1^find this in you a felf-denial, and a daily taking up iof the crofs, againft vour own inclinations, the doc- (tiine and practice of mortification,and a cutting your- .felf fliort of carnal delights will be defined by you. ,,Sixthly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then ye will i jbe i’ubje<ft unto him willingly, and yield fweetiy 1unto the fwaying of his feeptre in your foul.Seventhly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then ye are ^fubje'ft unto him univerlally in all his commands. {E:;;htly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then ye sre Lfubject unto him fincerely in all things, feeking his |,]glor7-N nthly, If ye be come nnto Chrift, then ye are ^fubjeft unto him conftantly, obeying him without |!rwearyingTenthly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then his word j •abideth in you, i John ii. ta. If that which ye have lheard from the beginning remain in you, ye fhall ;,continue in the Son and in the Father, it muft bide!!,in you, fo as your rpiod underftands it, your heartsafFeft it O how have that which ve have read and ^heard, remained ? Few, few, in ChriftEleventhly, If ye be come unto Chrift, ye wijl find ,his Spirit, ‘ leading you unto all truth,* John xvi.Ig. 'Teaching thee and leading thee unto, and con¬firming thee in duty ; but do not miftake, we meanno enthufiaftic fpirit, but his word and fpirit which.|(-he hath enjoined, Ifa. lix. 21 f My Spirit which ■* is upon thee, and my words wh ch I have put iai< thv mouth, ihall not denart. &c.In Evil Times. 21Twelfthly, If ye come unto Chrift, then ye willland his Spirit convincing you of fin.Thirteenthly, If ye be come unto Chrift; then yei rill find his Spirit ruling and commanding you,caft-ng down all things exalted againft Chrift’s kingdom,i Fourteenthly, If ye be como unto Chrift; then ye' rill find his Spirit in you by fupplication, leadinginto fenfe of fin, and apprehenfion of the neceffityf mercy, which makes fervency, letting the foul feeJod only appeafed in Chrift, and fealeth the truthif Goa’s p-omifts and recordsr 1 Fifteenthly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then ye■ Irill find faith in you, that will be your ftay in all• nates, attions, temptations and afle&ions : This islard to find out, yet it may be tbund out, if yesave a defire for it, ye may have it.Sixteenthly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then yerill find an admirable change in you, a new Spiritwithout guile, a new judgment, new defires, new&£tions, love, hatred, iorrow, joy •, new fenfes,■lyes, fmelling, ears, tafte, feeling. ITse. Now find■e thefe, or any of thefe marks really in you, thenioubt no more, mifbelieve no more, all is fure, ycdre come unto Chrift, and feeing ye are come untoi ;im, prefs ay for more and more of his likenefs, forI'progrefs in finftification. Remember, i John ii. 6.:! die that faith he abideth in him, ought himfelft alfo to walkewtn as he waiked.’ And this leads usHinto the third thing in the opening up of this point,Ir «•«?, Co declare who are his people ; they, as weWere faying, who are righteous, and live righteoufly.oiow thefe who are righteous, are thefe who have1 j;d unto Chrift, and they indeed live righteoufly.et to make it more clear, we fhall in fhort tell>u, who they are who live righteoufly: Thefe to ivitta word, ‘ Who walk as he walked.’ Omnia nosrijli vita docere potejl: that is, The life of Chriftn teach us all things.22 The Saint/ DutyFirft, They live • hteoull? beginning all things \with God, ref rrii • a ; things to God; Secondly*btThey do all things bv the warrant of his word, con- ;temrdng their ov n wills, that they might do the tLord’ • ‘ Not my will but thy will be done/ theyrmuft lofe their life, before they lofe their obedience, iiThirdly,"they will be holy, ? be ye holy as I am holy/1John iii , ‘ Every man, that hath this hope in him, j* purifieth himfelf even as he is pure. Fourthly/They walk fruitfully, they go about doing good j f»:O fad ! not only the unfruitful walking of this ge-«neration, but even the Humbling that they are >Fifthly, They walk jufliy, not wronging any : Theft I;are they who I've righteoufly, who walk foasChrifljwalked: O! how Tew righteous livers are amongtl tyou, and tlufe only are his people, righteous perionsj /righteous livers, arid it is thefe whom the Lortjthath chambers torNow S'xt dy, we proceed to the rules how to apt,ply theft evidences Firft, t hough you find then!i>.not all, yet if ye find one or more of them realthen comfort yourf Ives. Secondly, if you find no|;what to ineriy you have found, labour more to rebnew the fame, than to ftek a fight of the oicBlri hirdly, Do not tty yourftlves in the hour of tempi:tation Fourthly, When ye find marks and ev»dences, do not reft upon them, for hough ye ha 4j.them, they may foon be gone. Fifthly, Do nqi'purlue fo much to fatisfy your fenft for the preftnijas to have a folid well grounded affurance for th!(time to come. Sixthly, Be not fo defirous to knolwnat you are, as what you fhould do. Spend nc ,your time in quefttoning your ftate, as )e do, bt j,ule the means of real union and communion wit j.Chrift : : Ivis is the Ihorteft and fureft way 6y »venthly, Ju, ge no; yourfelves by the meafure < ;.your graces, but by the fincerity of them, Eigh fe.In Evil Times.23y, Compare not your lei ves too much to the faints,>ut judge yourfeives by the wor tNinthiy, When there is a fenous wreftling againftforruption, tho’ not meeting with any ienfible vic-ory, yet caft not away your hope raul tells vou,3 lom. vit. How far a child of God m,y be enflavedra body of fin. 'Tenthly, Remember ye have to do with God in1 covenant of grace Now what more fhall we fay ?t luft we end as we began ? Oh ! come away, come?( way tc Chrift, this Prince of delights, come, and!i ater if,to thefe chambers Motive. Fn fi, Come a-|i ay and enter, then your condition 1 he honour-tle with Chi iff. Secondly, comfortable. Al! yourbts ar. paid Thirdly Ri,ch All that Chrift-v dth, graoe and goodnefs is all thine Fourthly,fruitful. k pur veth his branches. Fifthly, Safe.Te takes al! h:s quarrels upon him, your head will4jr be above t!ie wa er. Sixd ly, it is the only ftate|f perfeflion, which is in him. and derived to us.1 evcnthly, i hen all the protnhes are yours. Eightly,J | is a furc ftate, in this life ye have ftrength againft4 smptatiorts •; ‘ My grace is fufficirnt for you. Ninth-jf, in death afToi ance, Tney that fleep in Chnft,j|rifh riot lenth y, in the day of judgment,<i ftdcefs. O come away, the chambers are every wayI eahn', and every wa.- fate, come away, the indig-itipn shall riot overtake you1 i’he Lord is coming down with a unlverial de-1 ge of v.rath upon the generality : Conm; away and| Ihall be^iid O ! he is willing, he is willing, he1. iuld not have lent this mefTage to you this day, •he had not been willing : And now, when we areppi'ig a faft-day unto the Lord, who hath givtniu this call, pray that he would help you righily toprove it; 1 lay, O improve it rightly, by yourwering of it:J3ut ye will fay, how fhall we improve it ? Anf,24 7/k Saints' DutyFirft, improve it, by feeing' that it is only of the iLord’s free mercy, that he hath given it. Ezek 1 ‘xxxvi. 22. * I do not this for your fake, O ! houft* of Ifraeh but for mine holy name’s fake.Secondly, Improve it, by being thereby the more ■Airred up to your duty, Pfalm cxvi. ‘ Becaufe hr'* hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I cal« upon him as long as I live.’ Hath he heard you iprayers in this? then be more in prayer, and himore Angle in prayer, and all other duties than eveheretofore.Thirdly, Improve it, by loving the Lord himfellwho hath gianted you it, Pfalm cxvi. ‘ I love th !« Lord, becaufe he hdth heard my voice and fuppli •« cation.Fourthly, Improve it, by feparating yourfelv<j;more from the abominations of the time, by makinclean hearts and chan hands, PFalm vi 5 ‘ Depail* from me ye workers ofiniquity,theLord hath hear* the voide of my fupplication.Fifthly, Improve ir, by having a high and becoming efteem of the ordinance, yet keeping it in ii.own room, and not retting upon it, but feekingu**to the Lord himfelf, Amos v. 4. ‘ Seek ye me, art« ye fhall live, but feck not to Bethel.’ _Sixthly, Improve it, by anfwering his call thereirand let not the Lord have it-to fay of you, that aftlong and many refufals, ‘ Yet I came and ftretcbij« forth rpy wings, and would have gathered you,* a hen gathereth her chickens, but ye would not.’ |let him not\have that to lay ; ‘ Come away, con« away, enter into your chambers, and Ihut ya« doors about you, and hide yourfelves as it werel* a little moment, until the indignation be overpafllFINIS.