THEComical HistoryOFSIMPLE JOHNAND HIS ' 'JpTwelve Misfortunes;Which happened all in txvelve DayS ajterthe unhappy Day of his Marriage.Giving a particular Account of his Courtshipand Marriage-Io a Scolbing WIFE; whichhas been a mortifying Miserv to many a poorMAN.' 0 Sirs, 'will you see,What it is to married be.GLASGOW:Published and Sold Wholesale and Retail, byIt. Hutcheson & Co. 10, Saltinarke^1819;THECOMICAL HISTORY OFSIMPLE JOHNAND msTWELVE MISFORTUNES.SIMPLE JOHN was a widow’s son,and a coarse country weaver to histrade: He made nothing but such ascanvas for caff-beds, corn and coalsacks, drugget and harn was the finestwebs he conld lay his fingers to: he wasa great lump of a lang, lean lad, aboonsax feet afore he was eighteeen yearauld, and, as he said himsel’, he grewsae fast, and was in sic a hurry to behigh, that he did not stay to bring alhis judgement vith him, but yet hehoped it would follow him, and hewould meet wi% as mony a ane doesThe History of Simple John, %ct 3after they’re married. He had but aesister, and she had as. little sense ashimsel’ she was married on Sleeky Wil¬lie the wiiie weaver, his mither was arattling rattle-scull’d wife, and they liv¬ed a’ in ae house, and every body heldthem as a family of fools. When Johncame to man’s state, to the age oftwenty-one years, he told his mither,he would hae a wife of some sort, eitheryoung or auld, wadow or lass, if 'heyhad bur head and hips, tongue and tail,he shou’d tak them, and weel I watmither, quoth he, they’ll get a lumpingpenny-worth o’ me, tak me wha will.His mither tells him o’ the blackbutcher on Ti’ot-side, who had threedoughters, and every ane o’ them hadsomething, there was Kate, Ann, andGirzy, had hundred merks the piece,Kate and Ann had baith bastards.Girzy the eldest had a humph-back, ahigh-breast, baker-legged, a short wryneck, thrawn mouth; and goggle-ey’d,a perfect iE<op of the female kind, withas many crooked conditions within aswithout, a veiy lump of hum-like iil-narure, row’d a’ together, as it she had4The History of Simple Johnbeen nine monthsrin a hagglesv a se¬cond, edition of crooked backed Rich¬ard, an old English King, that was bornwith t?eth to bitea’ around about him,and yet the wight gaed mad to bemarried.John’s mithef told him the roadw here to go, and what to say, and ac¬cordingly he sets out wi’ his Sunday’scoat on, and a’ his braws and a pairo’ new pillonian breeks o’ his mither’smaking. In he comes, and tell’d hiserrand before he would sit down, sayf1good-day to you, goodman, what areye a’ doing here? I am wanting a wife,an ye’re aiflesber, and has a gude sort¬ing aside you, my mither says ye cansair me or ony body like me, what sayye tiil'fc, goodmah? How mony doch-te'shaeye? Are they a’ married yet?I fain wad tak a look o’ some o’ themgin ye like.A ‘wow, said the goodwife, come inlay, honest lad, and rest ye, an ye bea wooer, ait down and gie’s a snuff.—A deed, goodwife, I hae nae mills butmy mither’s, and it’s at hame.—Awharewin ye, I’se no ken ye.—I wat, quotband his Twelve Misfortunes. >5he, my narne’g Jock Sandyman, theyca* me Simple John the sack-weaver,I hae nae tocher but my loom, a pirn-wheel, a kettle-pat, a brass-pan, twapigs, four cogs, and a candle-stick, a „good cock, a cat, twa errocks new be¬gun to lay; my sister Sara is marriedon Sleeky Willie the wylie weaver, and1 moun hae a hagwife or my mitherdie, for truly she’s very frail, and onyhad o’ health she has is about dinner¬time; what say ye tifl’t, good man? canye buckle me or not.Goodman. ) A dear John, ye’re in anunco haste, ye wadna hae your wifehame wikye? they’re a’ three before ye,which o’ them will ye tak?Hout tout, says John, ony o’ themwill sair me, but my mither says there’stwa o’ them his faurs. And what istheir fauts, said the good wife? Houtsaid John, it’s no meikle faut, b’-it 1dinna like it, they got men or theyv/ere married. And what shall 1 do withem? said the goodman.John. ) A deed, goodman. as ye’re aydealing amang dead beasts and livingbeasts, T wad put them awa amang U€> The History of Simple Johnther beasts, or gin ye be aun ony pen¬ny, let somebody tak them up o’ des¬perate debt, I sud fl;e the fykes fraethem, they anger’d you, and sham’dyou baith with their bastards, a wheendaft jades it gets men or they be mar¬ried, and bairns or they get bridals. 'Goodtwije. ) A wat weel that’s truelad,Girzy. ) A weel, John, then, will yetak me; I hae nae bastards; how will yeand I do?John. ) 1 watna gin ye be able to geta bastard, yet ye may hae some waurfaut; but ye maun be my pennyworth,for ye’re unco little, and I’m o’er muc-kle, and gin ye an I war ance cardedthrough ither, we may get bonny weanso’ a middlen mak. I have nae fauts toye, but ye hae a high breast, a humphback, a short neck, and high shouthers,the hands and legs may do, tho* yourmouth be a wee to the tae side, it willlie weel to the rock, and I hae a han¬dle o’ tow to spin, will be baith sarksand sacks till us, ye’il be my soncydauty, up and down; a perfect beauty,wi’ cat’s yellow een, black brows, andmuHus Txcelvc Misfortunes.anaco, —‘-U * Itf <Tr(* be married?vuildn Win - s • ^ -Girzy- ) Ha, ha, John laa, -‘J*unthink on that yet.Jdin. ] What the yeltow lass, shouldna^e be i-fidy whan I’m ready, andevery body says, that the women’s ayready.Goadnan. ] Ye’ll hae to come back,and bring somebody wi* you, and we’llgree iDout it, and set the day whanye’ll be married.John. ] A weel, goodman, I’ll tell mymither o’t, and come back on Monon-day, and we’ll hae a chapin o’ ale, androasted cheese on the chance o’t: bu t;I maun hae a word o’ the bride outby,to convoy me, aii a quiet speak to hey,,sel about it.Goodwife. ] A wo?; na, John, thedaft louns v/iil laugh at you, and she’llthink shame, gang ye out by, andshe’ll speak to you through the gavelwindow.Out goes John, and the bride andher twa sisters, goes to the windowwithin to hear the diversion, and what* r,ic Itetory of Simple John,he would say. Now, say3 john —my dear, my braw pretty >be m earnest, tell me, for by m ^■I m uo sccrninof ". j Indeed, John, I m very win¬ing to tak ye, but ye needaa tell everyIndy about i v« - |John.'] Then gle mi . ^ on that.He shuts his * - af the window,making a lai.0 neck to win down toher, and she stood on a little fctool towin up to him. O, cries he, an yewere good flesh I cou’d eat you a’ 1 like,you sae weel, it’s a pity there is sic ahard wa’ atween us, Tse tell my mithersae bonny as ye’re: O gie me anitherkiss yat, an then Til go. One o’ hertesters standing by in a dark corner, getsha’d o’ a cow’s head, which wanted a*the skin but about the mouth, and shutsk out tod’dtdi hisf7mouth, which bekiss’d in the daik. O, ciied he, bu:your mouth be cauld since I kiss’d yelast,' and I think ye h'ae a beard, I sawnae that afore, or is’t wi’ spinning tow.that niaks your mouth sae rough ateen:H ame he comes, and tells his mitneithe speed and properties of the marriageA’things u a' gdt ready and next .veek,Sl^ ky Willie the wr-aver and him canieto gree the marriage and May a’ mgiitv?i’ .he bride, and teach John goodmanners, for whan JnMn was hungry,he minded hi^ meat mitre than his ^oodbehaviour, and he never was nl, illthe dl^h was tume. Wi’.’ie the weav rwa- to tramp on hit‘ fit, when hethought he had suppet enough; so allthings being agreed upon short andeasy terms, and the wedding-day setthey were to be three times ci y’d onSunday, and quietly "married on Mon-onday, neither piper nor fidler to beemployed, but sweith awa* hame fraethe Minister, and into the bed amangthe blankets; Ha, ha, cries John, that’sthe best o’t a’.Now every thing being concludedand proposed, the supper was brought,a large fat haggles, the very smell wada done a hungry body gude, but John,had only got twa or three soups, until,ane of the butcher’s meikle dogs tram¬ped on John’s fit, which he took to bethe Weaver, and then he would sip naemair. After supper they w(ent to bedto ’Ihe History of Simple JohnJohn and the Weaver lay together, andthen he abused ' the Weaver fortramping sae soon,'which he denied;but O, sai-d John, there’s a hantle o’tleft, and I saw whare it was set, they’rea’ sleeping, i’ll go rise an tak a soup o’tyet. Ay, een do sae, said Sleeky Wil¬lie, and bring a soup to me too. Away.then John goes to the amry, and laysto the haggles, till'his ain haggies couldhand me rnair; then brings the rest toSleeky Willie; but instead of going tothe bed where he was, goes to the bedwhere the bride and her twa sisters lay,they being fast asleep, speaks slowly.Will ye tak it, will ye tak it; but theymaking no answer, he turns up theblankets to put a soup into Willie’smouth, but instead of doing so, he putsa great spoonful close into one'of theirbacksides. Sleeky Willie hears all thatpast, comes out the bed, and sups outthe remainder, and sets up the dishwhere it was. leaves the amry door o-pen, to let the cats get the the blame ofsupping the haggies, and ava they go tobed; but poor John could get nae sleepfor drouth; up he gets in search of theand Jiis Twelve Misfortunes, 11water cann, and finding an empty pit¬cher, puts in his hand to find if therewas any water in it, but finding nane,he dosed his hand when it was wit tunthe pitcher, and then could not ge* itout, goes to the bed and tells Sleeky■Willie what had happened him, whoadvised him to open the door, and goout to a knocking-scane that stood be¬fore the door, and break it there, toget out his band, and not to mskenoise in the house. So out he goes,and the bride’s sister who had gottenthe great spoonful of the. haggles laidto her backside, was out before him,rubbing the nastiness ( as she took it tobe ) off the tail of her sark, and shebeing in a louring posture, he took herfor the knocking-stane, and comes o’erher hurdles with the pitcher, till it flewin pieces about her, then off she runswith the fright, round a turf-stack, andinto the house before him. John comein trembling to the bed againj wi* thefright praying to preserve him, for sica knocking-stane he never yet saw, forit ran clean awa’ when hp brake thepig upon’t.32 The History °J Simple JohnNow John was furnished in a houseby hi: father-in-law; the bed, bom,heddlen, treadles, thruirbs, reeds, andpirn-wheel, was a* brought and set upbefore the marriage, which was kceptas a profound secret; so that John gotthe first night of his ain wife, and hisain house a’ at ae time. So on the nextmorning after the marriage, John andhis wife made up some articles, howthey were to work, and keep house:John was to keep the house in meat,,meal, fire, and water; Girzy was to makthe meat, and keep the house in clothes;the father-in-law to pay the rent forthree years; they were to hae nae ser¬vants, until they had children; andtheir first child was to be a John afterits ain Daddy, get it wha will, if a boy;and if a girl, Girzy after its ain Minny,as he said, wha had wTeught best for’t.MISFORiUNF. I.THF.N she ordered John to rise andbegin his wark, by putting cn a fire,and to tak the twa new pbs and gangto the well for water No sooner hadJohn opened the door, and goro outv ith a pig in every hand, than a’ theboys and girls being gather’d in a croudto see him, gave a loud hazza, and clap¬ping their hands at, him, poor John,rot know ing what it meant, thought itwas fine sport, began to clap his handstoo, and not minding the twa pigs,clashes the tane against the tit her, tillbaith vent to pieces, and that' was acheerful huzza to baith young and auldthat was looking at him: Girzel thewife draws him into the house, and tohim she flies with the wdcked wdfe'sweapon, her Tongue and Tangs, andmade his ribs to crack, saying, “ Theytold me ye was daft, but*Til ding thedafling out o’ ye, I’ll begin wi’ you asI’ve a mind to end wi’ you.” PoorJohn sat crying and clawing his lugs14 The History of Simple Johnt€t Ha, ha,“ 6aid he, “ its nae bairn'aplay tp be married, I find that already.’*His Mitherdn-law came in and made uppeace, went to a co per, and got thema big wooden stoup to carry in theirwa^er.MISFORTUNE II.Next morning, John was sent to theFlesh-markertin errand to his Father-in-law, who gaye him a piece of fleshto carry home, a'jfl as he was comingout of the Market, he saw six or se yenof the flesher-dogs fall on and worry ata poor country colly-dog; u Justice, Jus¬tice,” cries John to the doge, “ ye’rebut a wheen unmannerly raskals, thatfa’s a’ on ae poor beast, heth ye sudea' be put in the toubooth, and ta’en tothe bailies, and bang’d for the like o’that; it’s perfect murder;” and in heruns amongst the dogs,*4 And be bang’dto you a* the gither, What is the quar¬rel? What is the quarrel!John flingsdown the flesh he had earning, andgrips the colly, who took John for anand his Twelve Misfortunes 15enemy too, and bites his hands till theblood followed, the whi le of the tykescomes on a poor John, till down hegoes in the dirt amongst their feet..andone of the dogs runs off with S is flesh,so John went home both dirty andbloody and without his flesh, tc Id Girzyhow it happened, who applied her oldplaister, her Tangs and 'irhgue, madeJohn to cur e the very Minister thatmarried them, and wished he mightne’er do a better turn.MISFORTUNE III.Next morping, John was sent to thewell with the great stoup to bring inwater for breakfast y and as he was pull¬ing the stoup out of the well, in he tum¬bles and his head down, the well beingnarrow, he fpuld na win out: some peo¬ple passing, by chance, heard the slunge,cried, and run to his relief, haul’d himout half dead, and helpgd him into thehouse; and after getting a dry sark, hewas comforted with the old plaister, herTongue and the hard Tangs.26 The History of Simple JohnMI^ORTUNE IV.Next day, she says, “ John, I naust ^go t > the market m yself, for :*f too a;0you”! wi’ the dogs, av A,let themrun aw t* wi’ ony thins: ye buy: seethat ye put on the pat, and ha’et b :lingagain i come hame. ” Jphn prom"ised weel, but performs very badiy.She’s no sooner gone, than he put onthe new pat, without any water in it,and a gotul fire to make it boil, andaway' be goes to the unhappy well, tillshis stoup, and sets it •down, to look ata parcel of boys playing at Cat and Dog,they persauded John to take a game wtthem, on he play?, till ane o’ the boyscries, “ Hey John, yonders your Girzycorning,*’ John runs into the housevvi’ the water, and the p*t being redhot on the fire, he tumes in the cauldwater into it, which made the pat neeall in pieces, just as she was enteringthe door. John runs for it, and sheruns sfter him, crying, ‘Catch the thief.* some persons stopped him*, she comesand his Twelve Misfortunes 17up, and then she laboured him all theway hame, and he, crying, “ O Sirs,ye see what it is to be marriedr’ TheMither-in-law.had to mak up peacs a-gain, and he promised good behaviourin time to come;MISFORTUNE V.On the next morning she sent him (to the water to wash -some cow’s pud¬dings and turn them on a spindle,shewing him how he was to do or hewent away. John goes to the water?very willingly, and as he turned andwashed them, he laid them down be¬hind him, where one of his Father-in-law’s big dogs stood, and ate them upas fast as he laid them down, till all wasgone but the very last ane, which hecarried hame in his han^ crying like achild, and underwent a severe tost of theold plaister;before any mercy was shown.MISFORTUNE VI.His Father-in-law, next day, s^nt him1S The History of Simple Johnaway to bring home a fat calf he hadbought in the country, and tied up themoney in a napkin, which he carried inhis hand for fear he should lose it. Be¬ing very weighty as it was all in half¬pence, and as he was going alongst abridge, he meets a man running after ahorse, who cries to John to stop thehorse; John meets him on the top ofthe bridge, and when he would not bestopped for him, he knocks the horseon the face with the napkin and themoney, so the napkin rave, and most ofthe halfpence flew over the bridge in thewater, which made poor John go homecrying very bitterly for his loss, anddread of the old plaister, which he gotvery sickerly.MISFORTUNE VII.On the next morning, she sent himagain to the bridge, to see if he couldfind any of it in the water, and there hefound some ducks swimming, and duck¬ing down with their heads below the.water, as he thought, gathering up hismoney, he kills one of them, and ripsand his Twelve Misfortunes 19her up, but found none of it in her gutsor gabbie; then, says he, they have beenbut looking for it, Pli.go do as they did^strips off his clothes and leaves them onthe bridge, goes in a ducking, in whichtime, a rag-man came past, and took a-way all his clothes So he went homenaked to get a bath of the old plaister.MISFORTUNE VIII.The next morning she sent him to afarm-house, for a pig-ful of butter-milk,and as he was returning through thefields, the farmer’s bull and another bullwas fighting: the farmer’s bull being liketo lose, John runs in behind him, andsets his head to the bull’s tail, on pur¬pose to help him to push against theother; but the poor bull thought Johnwas some other bull attacking him be¬hind, fled aside, and the other bull camefull drive upon John, pushed him down,broke the pig, and spilt the milk. SoJohn went home to get his auld plaister,which began to be an usual diet to him,and so he regarded it the less.20 The History of-Simple JohnMISFORTUNE it.4His Mother-in-law, with several auliwitty wives, held a private council onJohn’s conduct, and bad luck, and con¬cluded he was bewitched. John wasof the same opinion, and went to theMinister, and told him he was the causeof a* his misfortunes, ca’d him a war-lock to his face, and “Said, He had putsuch a black bargain in his hand, thathe \vas ruined for ever; insisted eitherto unmarry them again, or send deathand the bellman to take her awa’, forshe has a lump of mischief on her backand anicher on her breast, and the resto’ her body is a clean- deii. The Min¬ister began to exhort him to peace andpatience, telling him that marriageswere made in heaven: “ Ye’re a baistliar, says John, for 1 was married inyour ain kitchen, and a’ the blackguardsabout the town was there, an it had abeen heaven they wadna win in, ye tell’tme that matrimony was sic a happystate, but an ye had gotten as money-and his Twelve Misfortunes 21weel pay’d skins as I hae gotten, ye wada kerd what it is; ill chance on you sir;and out he goes cursing like a madman,throwing stanes, and breaking the Min-ister‘s windows, for which he was catchtand put twa hours in the stocks, and atlast his lump of Corruption came andrubbed his lugs, threw his nose, gothim out, and drove him home beforeher; took a resolution, never to set himabout any business in time coming, butkeep him on his loom. .MISFORTUNE X.Now she gave him no sleep a’ thatnight for scolding. John gat, up inthe morning lang'or day, leaving his, Tormentor in bed; fell asleep upon hisloom, with the candle in his hand, andso set the web, heddles, reed, and trea¬dle-cords in a fire, by chance his oldViper looked out of the bed, or thewhole house had been gone. Up shegot, and with her cries alarm’d the• neighbourhood, who came to her relief;L22 The History of Simple Johnbut poor John underwent a dreadfulswabbing for this.MISFORTUNE XLAfter the former hurry and beatingbeing over, his work being stopt, hewent to bed and sleept a’ that day, andfollowing night. On the next dayhaving nothing to do, she sent him insearch o'i a hen’s nest, whbh»had ta’ensome by-place to lay her eggs in; so aspoor John was in an auld kill searchinga’ about the walls, the kill-ribs brake,,and down he goes with a vengeanceinto the logic, cutted and bruised him¬self in a terrible manner; up he couldnot win, but had to creep out at thelogic below, scarce able to get hame,his face and nose a’ running a blood.In this condition, she pitied and la¬mented for him very much, tied hissores and laid him in bed; then satdow;n very kindly, saying, “ My dear,and my lamb, do ye think there is onyo’ your banes broken? and what parto’ you is sairest? And what will I get<ind his Twelve Misfortunes. 23to do good?” Oh!’ said lie, “ Girzy,rm a brizzled atween the feet.”. “ Areye indeed.” quoth she, ‘‘ then I wishye had brogen your neck, that i mighta gotten anitber, useless ae way, anduseldss mae ways; upo5 my word, ye’sno be here, gang whare ye like.MISFORTUNE XILNow, as poor John was turned outo’ doors next morning, to go awa’ hirp-ling on a staff, one came and told himhis mother had died last night. “ OhHoch! said John, and is my mither cleandead! O an she wad but look downthrough the lift, and see how I’m guid¬ed this morning, I’m sure she wad sendDeath for me too. I’m out o’ a mitherand out o’ a wife, out o’ my health andstrength, and a’ my worklooms.” HisMother-in-law came and pleaded forhim: “ Haud your tongue, Mither,”said Girzy, “ if ye kend what ail’d him,ye wadna speak about him, he’s useless,no worth the keeping In a house, butto ca’ him to die like an auld beast at a24 The History of Simple Joh. , ^dykeside.” ct Hout tout, co* the auldwife, we’ll raak o’ him and he’ll mendagain.” So John got peace made up af¬ter a’, and he was easier mended thanthe burnt web; got all his tradles andwarklooms set in order,the wife’s tongueexcepted, which was made of worm¬wood, and the rest of hdr body of seawater, which is always in a continualtempest.So John appeals to a Jedburgh Juryif it be not easier to deal wi’ fools thanheadstrong fa^hious fouk-; owns he hasbut an empty skull, but his wicked wifewants wit to pour judgement into it,never tells him o’ danger till it comesupon him, for his mother said, he wasa biddable bairn, if bny body had beento learn him wit.FINIS.GLASGOW:Published and Sold by R. Hutchison & Co,1819.