’3T H Ephriftian's Pocket-Book:OR, A BUNDLE OFFAMILIAR EXHORTATIONS,TO THEPRACTICE OF PIETY.JCCINCTLY AND ADVISEDLY ADAPTED TO TJSEMEANEST CAPACITIES BOTH AS T»STYLE AND MATTER.BY A MINISTER OF THF. no.SPFT ~I T HRS SALON I ANS iv. I.befeech you, and exhort you by the Lord Jefus, thdtas ye have received of us bow ye ought to walk and toplcaie God, fo ye would abound more and more.HEBREWS Xlii. 22.jefceeh you, fuffcr the word of Exhortation, for I have,written unto y6u in few words.TO WHICH ARE ADDED,IRECTIONS FOR READING the BI¬LE ^ and Slewing its Worth and Excel)^k0f SC»TUWD )EDINBURCTPpnU&by y, Morten fyivgnte*.^preface.are many who either arnot able to buy books of gresprice, or not willing to carry about witthem books of great bulk : therefore whave call into this fmall portable Pocket book, the following Bundle of Exhortations, which, we hope, compendioufly contain the chief fubftantials cpra&ical religion; which are of moilcommon ufe, and that people fhouhmod carefully mind, and be daily exercifed in : We have advifedly contradictmatters into fmall bounds, and exprefletthem in plain terms, fo that we expedlnone will grudge either the price the;pay for this fchedule, or their pains inperufing it We would not have th<Reader fatisfy himfelf with once reading, or viewing it over, to pleafe his curious or critical fancy anent what is written; it is not the feeding of fancy whic]the Author defigns, but propofing dut*and exhorting to the daily pradlica of itand f rqeently tol ook over thefe exhortations, and to form your daily walk amtonverfatio* agreeably thereto.ABundlc of Famiiar Exhortations,EXHORTATION I.consider your foul concerns with the,eateft ferioufneis; all other concernsre but triHes and vanities in compari-bn hereof: inccnfiderations is the baneaid ruin of fouls, it is the parent of flothnd fecurity, and the great hinderanceM needful refolution: and fpecially con-|ider, that you have precious and im-*nortal fouls, which after the end of thishort life, will live for ever, either in e-ferlafting happinefs, or everlafting mi-iery. It is your chief concern to fee theaivation of your fouls, as you would note foun dinconliderate fools, or ftupid>ts, Mat.xvi. 20. Hof. ii. 12.1 EiXa* 2‘ deeply to heart your na¬tural ftate of fin and mifery: bethink youhat befides your original guilt, and theCorruption of your whole nature, whichvas brought to the world with you, that;ou are alfo guilty of innumerable adualms by breaking all the commands of^od in thought, Word, and deed: for allrhich you deferveGod’s heavy curfe and4 i'HE CHRISTIAN’Saiid wrath to pur (he yen, both in* thisworld, and that which is to come : andneither can you relieve yeurfelves outof this dangerous condition. Pfal. li. 4 5 .1Rom. v 8, 16 Gal. iii. 10.Exh. 3. Fice fpeedily to ChnfFJefus,the only Son of God, and the only Sa- .viour of hnners ; renouncing your ownrighteovifnefs, by true ftith, -reft and re¬ly upon his merits, and imputed righte- 'oufnefs; firmly expecting to be juftified|pardotied and faved thereby. Rom, v.22, 24, 25. Rom. x. 4, 5.Exh 4. Refledt ferioufly on your bap- ,tifmal vows and covenant, whereby you,are fall bound to the Lotd, and to re- ,nounce and cefift the devil, the world,,aridtheflelh. as the great enemies of yourpeace and falvation, and makeconfcienceof keeping your folemn engagements, asye delire and hope to partake of Chriftand his benefits. Alfo, fet apart fomefhare of time on purpofe to renew yourbabtifmul covenant, in your own per-,fons, exprefsly accepting Chrift Jefus foryour Propet, Prieft and King ; for yourportion, guide, guard, and all in all, andPOCKET-BOOK. 5ind devoting yourfelves to him, to be11s fubjecls and fervants as long as vive frequently renewyour perfonal co-/enar; with him, and taithirdly keep it.[fa. xKv. 5. Horn, xii 2. Exod. six. 5.IExh. 5. Make an entire refignation>f yourfelves' to God, and of all thatrm enjoy, and have an affection for;eferring frankly to his will, wifdommd goodnefs, to difpofe of you andmurs in all things, in all cafes, and at.11 times, as feemeth good and right inds fight: live a life of dependance ondm, and truft in him, who can make11 things work together for good to you.V!ath. vi. 1 O'. Rom. viii 18.Exh. 6, Daily read feme portion ofhe holy feriptures, diligently meditateDn what you read, and ftudy to under¬hand and remember what you medi¬ate; that thereby you may come toenow both fin and duty, and how to beDoth holy and happy; read aife other50 oJ practical books; and feck the Lord’szdeffing on your readings. John v. 39.I Tim, iii. 15, 16, 17.Exh. 7. Pray daily unto God Almigh-6 THE CHRISTIAN’Sty morning and evening at leaft; andfee you be not formal or lazy in youridevotions; and, bendes lecret clofet pra*yer, alfo make confcience of farVdy du¬ties ; fet up, and keep up the worfhip ofpod in your families, by reading in the.Bible, and by prayer andlpraii'es to God.who only can blefs you and yours in allyour aclions and interefts prayerlefsperfons, are furely to be looked on asGcdlefs perfons. Pf, Iv. 17. Mat. vi 6,7.Exh. 8. Exercifeyouffelvesalfofome-times to fpiritual meditations; think of¬ten of the joysot heaven, of the tormentsof hell, of the fweetuefs of God’s promi-fes, ofterribleriefs, of his threatmngs, olthe hatefulnefs df fin, of the beauty olholinefs, of the vanity of the world, olthe advantages of real godlinefs, of yomhazards through manifold temptations,and ol the readinefs and ability of JefusChrifi to help and comfort you in all ca¬fes, &c. When ye rife up or lye downwhen you walk in the ftreets, or in thefields, when you are employed in anypart of your lawful calling, even at al!times and every place,by night or by day.POCKET-BOOK. 7|ou may have goodthoughtsiowardGod,jjndabout your fou] concerns. Gen. xxiv.J3. Phil Ixiii. 9, and civ. 34. Phil. iv. 8.Exh. 9. Entertain and nourifh tender-f the motions and impulfesof God’sSpi--tit on your fpirits : when ye find kindlyiclinations t© duty, fall in with them ;rhen you feel inward checks and fearsnth refpefl to fin, improve-them to re¬gain you from all iniquity; take fpecialieed, you do not fmother convidions, orwillfully rtfifi and quench the Spirit’srorkings in your hearts. Bom. vib 1.5.3. 1 ThefT. v. 16, 20.Exh 10. Wait pun&ullly on pyblic>rdinanccs, and always prepare for ap->earing before the Lord in the fanduary ;|ear the word reverently Let it be your|arneft defire to meet with God, and tojet your fouls edified in to the grace andknowledge of Chrift Jefus; make parti¬cular application both of promifes andhreatenings agreeablely to your cafes.When you are returned home, meditatemd confer on what you have been hear¬ing ; and frequently pray that God may»ive you good of his word: Negled not15 . ghiustian’sto mind -your miniftor in your firoplicaHnom, that he may be bleffed with divinealliitance and fuccels. pfaJ ]xiii jMar. xv. io. Luke viii. i ,m8. * 3■r,f7hhi 1 l'Jr7^y take'thefacramencof the Lord s fupper, bur ere you ventureon that holy ordinance, prepare carefully-\v examining yourfelves anem the ftatef, yo'lr f0uI> U'y ify°u b‘e in a holy, humbIe> J1Teiy. and tender frame ; penitenthmourn over your hns: refolve on amend-rnentand ne wnefsoflife s renew your per-mnj. covenant, and ufe the facrament a!•^eat of it; xervea bill of divorce againf]■*11 your idols and ilrang^ lovers, thatnat e courted and carried your affedtionj■ il Chrid ; hunger and third for clofcc iniTninion with hin«: in the act of comnrunieating, watch narrovvly over youitreacherous hearts, that they gad not andgo aftray from the Lord. And after yodhave communicated, try what good yeliave gotten, let it appear in your afteiwalk, that ye have been with Jefus, feaft-ing with him, and upon him. i Cor xi. 20,Lxh 12 Remember the Sabbath day,10 keep it holy, not only by public wonI POCKET-BOOK. *ill ip but by religious duties in your fa ¬milies, and in fecret: put away all vainimpertinent, and earthly thoughts; talknot of wordly affairs, neither do anywordly bufinefs, but what works of mer¬cy and neceility may cA\ you to ; mif-pend no part of the Lord’s day either inidle difcourfe, loitering at home or Broi¬ling in the ftreets and fields Ex. viii. ?Exh. 13. I.ook on fin to be the wovflthing in the world, as being defiling tolyour.confciences, and damnable to bothBfoul an.d body ; and "which i-s worfl oflall, difhonourable and difp’eafing to theIgreat God of heaven. Jer. ii. 16.I Exh. 14. Shun and refifi; temptations,M fee Bill upon your guard; watching overyour deceitful hearts, keeping the doorof your lips, and being circumfpecl inall your ways; you are encompaffed 4-bout on all hands with fnares and temp¬tations. Mat. xxvi. 41. Prov. vi. 23. Pf.xxxix. 1, 2. Eph v. 15. 1 Pet. v. 8, 9.Exh. 15 Daily repent of fin; you aredaily fining in thought, word and deed,for which you fiionld every evening takean account, of yeurfelves; and what faultsTi, THE CHRISTIAN'Syou find you are guilty of, confefsthem,mourn over them, rcfolve, by God’s grace jnot to do the like again; have a care your :repentance prove not adlghing and go-1:ng backward: moreover, not only repentof your own. faults, but over the fins ofyour relations, neighbours, and the pla- •ces ye live in. A6ts xvii. 30. Job xxxiv.32. Pfal. cxix 136.Exh. 16. Mortify and bear down the(mward pafiions and corrupt affections of.your heart, fuch as anger, envy, malice,;^privy hatred, revenge, lultfulnefs, covet-oufnefs, pride, ambition, and all fecretinclinations to impiety; untill your foulsbe purged of thefe, you cannot expedthe Holy Ghoft will dwell in you as atemple. Col. iii. 5, 8 1 Cor. iii 16, 17.Exh. 17. Keep at the utmoft diftancefrom the common fins of the times, fromcurling, fwearing, drunkennefs, Healing,,cheating, lying,reviling, furnication, ba-dy-language, and all uncleannefs, derid¬ing or mocking true godlinefs, or wifh-ing evil to the godly, &c. For becaufeof thefe things comes the wrath of Godon the guilty. Eph. v. 3, 4, 5.POCKET-BOOK.Exh, 18. Keep oat of ill company, badxamples corrupt good manners: 'Thingmame to converfe familiarly with openlyrofane and debauched perfdnsV this willicitherbe for vonrcredit,comfort.orpro-Lt, rather chafe virtuous, fdber and godlyicople to be your companions: Such anan as ye would be,-draw to like com-iany. Proy. xxii. 24. Pfal. cxix. 63.Ex. 19. Lead a holy and religious life,. talking fincerely according to the right-;ous commands of God: Set the Lord al¬ways before your face; content not your-elves with a bare form and outward (hew)f godlinefs without the power ol it ; behit entirely holy in all your ways. I Pet,. 15, 16. 2 Tim. hi. -5.j Exh. 20. Be good in all relations : not>nly a good Chriflian in.generafthat dai-y reads and prays, and runs to preach-ngs and communions; but be a goodmfband. a wife ; be a dutiful parent, andm obedient child t be a righteous maf-er, and diligent and honeft fervant, bel good and peaceful neighbour ; wronglobody either with tongueor hands; tintsfjbe good and godly in all relations and ca-■12 ; TiiE .CHRISTIAN’S-pacitirs. Rom. vil 18. GoL-iii. 18.--24..''Exh. 2j. Be iirong in the grace that is,!in Chrift; be npt farjsfied with fmall raea-fares of gracej-ufe all proper means forigrowing in grace^nd keeping it in lively |exercife; e ithoat the exercife ofgrace ye $can do nothing to purpofe, either in per- .forming duties; mbduing corruptions, re-1filing temptations, or bearing afflidiions,&c. Have a care of fpkitual doth, un-watchfnlncfs: dai)y make ufe of Chriftfor quickening your graces. John i. 16.1 Pet. i. 5,—2 Pet. iii. id.Exh. 22. Look and fix your affections |right: love not the work!, r.or any earthly |comfort immoderately: Giveypur heart’s!love to precious Chrift above all things,;-:who is only worthy of your chief defires.Col iii. 1,2. t johnii. 15, Mat. xxii 27.Exh- 23. be not vain or proud of any:temporal thing ; neither riches or hon¬our, beauty, ftrength of body, parts nor Igifts of the mind, nay, not of grace itfelf:,all earthly pofieflions and goods are un¬certain, vain and liable to innumerable!chances and changes Eccl. i- 2, 14.Exh, 24, moderate in. all things in,POCKET-BOOK.. i3'Ur judgement of yeurfelves, and oppi-on of others ; be moderate in eating,at jou be not gluttonous, in drinking,at it be not toexcefs ; in apparel, that: be not prodigal; in your houfe-keep-g, tli at ye ft retch not beyond your rankability; in your recreations, mifpend>t precious time; fobriety is always fafeid commendable. Phili.iv. 5 Ti. ii. 12.Exh 25. Make as much confcience of1 and duty in fecret before God alone,openly in the fight of men: have are of Pbarifaical righteoufnefs. Gen.xix. 9. Mat vi. 1,4, 5, 6*Exh. 26. Follow yonr lawful callingligently, never be idle, but have yourind always in a turn, the hand of theligent maketh rich; yet be not fo much^allowed up with your worldly affairs,to forget God, or your fouls, or juftleit religious duties; keep a good mind. all your affairs, fwaying to no extreme,ther of negleding your lawful calling,,iderthe pretence ofconftar.i;devotion,of too much engagement in throngworldly buliuefs, under the nretenceuuiaful providing for your families :THE CHRISTIAN’S 14" every tiling is beautiful in its feafon.Eccl ix. 10. Rom xii. 1 r.Exh 27. Look more to God’s provi¬dence and bleffing for making you thriveandprofper in the world, than to youtown fkill or induftry ; and as you wouldexpedGod’s blelfing.bejuft, upright andhoneft in your dealings; cheating noman, defrauding nomanbyequivicatmg,lying, or over-reaching. Prov. xxii. 10.Exh. 28 Be content with your lot, whatever be the circumftances and ingredi¬ents thereof; be not your own carver, leftyou cut your fingers; whatever God givesto you, whatever he takes from you, ac-iquiefee in his will; which fhould neverbe quarrelled; own your needy depend-ance on his providence, and in ail the©hanges of your condition, fay. Good isthe will of the Lord. Heb xiii 3- Job i 21«Exh. 26 Bear afflictions patiently and]iubmiffively, and be more concerned toget the fadified ufe of y our troubles, thanhow to be freed from them, look to thehand of God in all pains, ficknes, crofT-es,lofles,difappointments, reproaches andvexations ye meet with; in faith and hopsPOCKET-BOOK. 1511 your and burdens upon the Lord,eb. vii. 3, 9, 11 Pf lv. 22. 1 Pet v. 7.Exh. 30. Thank God heartily for alle mercies you receive, whether with re¬ed to your bodies or your fouls; freelyknowledge you get more mercies than>u are worthy of, more than you im-ove or guide well, more than you areitably thankful for, and more merciesan many others get, who are better andore ferviceable to God than you: Rec-)n it a great mercy that you are out of:11, and that you have the opportunity• the precious gofpel of Chrift : Noticeid record all the mercies of God ; andtimes take a while on purpofe to thankid praife God for them. Pfal. ciii.Exh. 31. Specially remark and trea-ire up fpiritual experiences; fuch as theifwer of prayer, vidory over temptati-as, the fenfible ptefence of Gon in or-mances and duties, &c. Never deny,ide, or fmother Chrift's kindnefs, this issftard humility, and true ingratitude,fal. xlii, 6, 8. and xlvi, 16, 17, 20.Exh. 32. be charitable to the poor, astr as you are able; if you cannot help16 THE CHRISTIAN'Sthem with your purfe, help themyour prayers and fympathy, and fuch ofices of kindnefs and humility, as majmake the miferable to blefs you. Pro’xxii 9 and xix, 17. Job xiii 26.Exh. 33.. Study more to be well grounc,ed inthefundemental principles of relig'on, than fpending yonr time about matficrs debetable, or difputable ; fee you dnothing that may break the peace anunity of the church ; go not without thibounds of your flation, under a pretendof-zeal and public fpirk. John xvii1 Pet. iii. 15 Pfal. cxxxi. 1,Exh. 34. Carry a due refpefl; both t;magi ft rates and minifters ; obey them iiall things lawful, if in any thing you b:public fa niters and offenders, willing!iubjedt both to civil punifciment, and tchurch difcipline and cenfure?; regarand reverence rulers ss'^your fupewortPom xiii /,—-8. Heb yni 13Exh. 35. Do all you'can in? your ftation tor promoting the interefts of thgofpei; as God doth call and enable youjoin not with any perfecutors, to troubhany one fortheir religion and confcieccKPOCKET-BOOK, 17ympathize with the perfecpted people^God in foreign churches; daily praythe blinded Jews and heathen nations,hat God may take pity and convert themnd make the light of the gofpel fthnehroughout the world. Adis ix 26, 29.)badiah,—1&. Pfalm li. 18.Exh 36. Refolve upon fuffcrings forthrift; be at leaft martyis in refolmionf you have a mind for Chrift and the:rown, you mull a!fo be content to takethrift and tire crofs; this is one of thepecial articles in his new covenant.bar¬gain with linnets; prepare for trials, youmow not what you may meet with ere'ou go offtheilage of time: Arm }our-eives againfl all peradventures Math,tvi. 24Exh 37 Mine? religion as your mainHifinefs; and all your other affairs butis petty by bufindfes; be not as the bulktnd body of the blinded demented world,vho live without God, without Chrift,md without hope; who live as if theyvere not to die, .fts if there were neitherleaven nor hell, nor a day of judgementifter this-life. Eph ii. 12 Tit i. to .L. I sjBi8 THE CHRISTIAN’SExh 38 Propofe God’s glory as thechief end of all your adtions, and makehis word the rule of them: take heedlthat bafe, felfifh by-ends be not yourmain end either in duties towards God;’or towards man: He that walketh up-*rightly, walketh furely. 1 Cor x 31Prov x 9Exh. 39, Spend your time well andprofitably ; time is a precious but a paiTiug thing, and, when once paft, cannotbe brought back again. When you ateto leave time, nothing will more gall youthan the tormenting thoughts of having,mi (pent it; on the other hand, nothingwill be more comfortable, than the confi-deration of managing your golden hoursprofitably : Mind God will call you to(an account for every minute of time,]how you have improven that excellent:gift, O what a valuable, yet what an abu-fed mercy is precious time. Eph, v, 1 6,Exh 40.. Mind ferioufiy ye are frail mor-*tal creatures, liable to athoufand dange¬rous accidents,: Muft certain it is youmuft die, bjt when, where, or how, noibody knows: Neither young nor old canPOCKET-BOOK 19 ' ^•omiie tbemfelves a day, or an hour,:yond the moiTient they breath in ;icrefore, account it the care of cares to:epai e for death judgment and eternity.:udy to be aways ready, by making3ur peace with God, by fecuring an in-reft in Chrift, by living near God inte daily practice of piety, and by avoid-tg all wickednefs, that when the Lordtall fend you a furnmons to remove toour long home, you may be fit to ftepno eternity. Deut. xxxii 29. Pf. ix, 3,,12. Beb. ix 27. 1 Pet i. ] 4. Jam. iv. &.DIRECLONS FOR READING THE BIBLE.1. In reading the Word of God, if yemuld profit by it, then look to God foris blelling upon it when you begin, andtray that he may blefs it to you, and to•pen your ears and hearts to hear andomply with it as the voice of God.2. Read it with reverence, not as thevord of man; but, as it is indeed,.- therord of the great God.Endeavour to get your hearts imprefl-id by his bleffed word. The dodrines,20 DIRECTIONS ONlaws, and very Spirit of our Pfbles fhoi^be tranfcribed to our vary; fouls. Lthen God’s word Hand not only in yoibibles, but dwell in your heartsIII. Have an eye to Chrifl in eve?thing ye read ; for he is the end, fcopand fubftance of the whole Biblo; arevery thing in it is reducible to hirIV. Mark the fpecial paffages of tlword, either thefe thatareofmoftimpoin themieives, or moft applicable to yorMark the duties enjoined, and fins fabidden, with thepromifesto the one, anthreatenings againft the other; Faftdthefe upon your memories, and hidthem in your hearts. Meditate on thenand pray, that God may keep them iyoitr minds, ready for'ufe againft thtime of need. There are fundry evangeheal laws and precepts in the word cGod, which you ftiould obferve; as, believing in God, doing all religious exercifes in has name, depending upon, himerits, grace, and interceftion; iookinjonly for acceptance in him;, a perfuafion of the neceftity and uiefulnefs oIhSiOffices, as Mediator, Prophet, Priel(READING THE BIBLE. 21I King: An apprehenfion at your own10ranee, guilt, weakneis, mifery, andthingnefs without Chrift, a relying onn in all his offices We alio fhouldnark concerning the Spirit, that he1 Spirit of conviction, illumination,iyer, holinefs, conduH,. comfort, andling : So we would accept of his help,erish his motions, and influences.5. Confider the worth and excellen-of the word, and how fuitable it isany state or condition we may be in.It is a rich mine of heavenly treafures,f oreffioufe of all fpiritual confolation ;common fhop of medicines for theil, full of rich priviliges,promifes, andge legacies to the people of God: Ita flaff and flay to the old, an orna-mt and guide to the young. In the>rd of God, we read the love whichDd bears to his children from all eter-ty, and will continue to have for them,sien time fhall be no more. Here areund the leaves ot the tree of lifelich God hath ordained for the heal-g of the nations. In a w«rd, here ise true judge of controverfies, a ham22 DIRECTIONS ONmer for hereticks, a touch-ftone for docVtrine, a rule for our lives, acomforier anacounfellor in this houfe of O'Ur pilgrimage: a fovereign cordial in all our foul?diftreffes; David found it fo to his fweeexperience, Pfalm cxix. 50. “This is nrcomfort in my afflidions, for thy wort“ hath quickened me.” O ! how excellent is the word, and who can fet fordall its excllency ? Iris a glafs to difeove;our fpots, a lamp to guide us in the darka fire to warm our cold affedions, a magazine to fupply us with armour again!our fpiritual enemies. Here are fuitab!<cordials for all our various cafes, be idefertion, temptation, poverty, ficknefreproach or perfecution ; here is the hea|veniy train, for making foft and tendehearts, here is meat for ftrong men, antimilk for babes ; which through the divine blefling will be both food and phyfic to our fouls.It is furely the Ghriftian’s duty to reatiand meditate much on God’s mofi: hobword, and that with pleafure and delight:the child delights to read his father”will aad teftament, and fee what is brI REAPING THE BIBLE. 23;ateed to him ; citizens delight to readeir charters, to fee their privileges;emalefa&ure who is acquitted, delightsread his pardon; and the prodigal thatreceived into favour, delights to reade affectionate letters of his father tom : Then if ye are received into fa-ur, and born of God, you cannot butthe lovers of his moft excellent word ;Id read and meditate on it both dayd night. Pfal. i. 2.6. We are to contend for the fcrip-•es ; the precious jewel is too good toparted with, Prov iv. 13, * Keep herf *s thy life.’ It is our duty, not only tore, read and underftand the fcriptures,t alfo to contend for the fame : Kere¬ns fight agaiiift it, we muft thereforeintend for it, Jude, 3. The fcripturese our book of evidence for heaven, (hall[p Part wi* our evidences ? The faintsold were both advocates and martyrsr the truth, they held fail by fcripture,ough it was at the expence of their'es. Dayad fpends the whole cxix Pfal,ihow his intimate affedion to it: Mo-s elteems it above all the learning ofDIRECTIONS, &c.other nation’s, Deut. iv. 5, 6. Solomoiprefers it before pearls', Prov iii. 15.'Jo?prefers it before his food, xxii. 12. Jeiremiah makes it his joy, Jer. xv. 16.a word, all the children of God havjbeen great lovers of God’s word, anticould never be prevailed onto part witiit, though perfecuted for the fame7: Read this excellent word with anplication to yourfeives, as if God fpokjto you by name and firname in evertline of it Read it as a love-letter leriftraight from heaven to you, and to fti|you up to faith and halmefs. Let us acjcept of its reproofs and admonitiondwith thankfnlnefs : and fay what a greamercy is it, that we may read our Fathicr’s will in our mother tongue ? And.that God fpeaks his mind lo plainly t<jus in his word, ihewing us what we antobelieve, what we are to do, and whajwe are to pray for, in order to God’s glo-:ry, and our own happinefs.