[No. i. .THE HISTORYEDINBURGH :PRINTED & PUBLISHED BY J. BUY DONE,OFJOHN BROWNOF PRIESTHILL,COMMONLY CALLEDTHE CHRISTIAN CARRIER,WHO WAS MURDERED BYTHE BLOODY OLAVERHOUSE.SOUTH HANOVER STREET.HISTORY OF JOHN BROWN.John Brown of Priesthill was only a boywhen upwards of three hundred ministers weredeposed, in one day, by Charles II.; becausethey, in conscience, could not submit that theChurch should be lorded over by bishops.Often did he describe the distress that pre¬vailed in the country on that occasion ; andthe anguish and weeping throughout thechurches, on the Sabbath their ministerspreached their farewell sermons. It washeart-rending to part with such men, so re¬markable for grace, eminent for gifts, many ofthem learned, and all of them singularly dearto their people. “ None of them wore scandal¬ous, insufficient, or negligent, and the fruits oftheir ministry were everywhere conspicuous.You might have travelled many miles withouthearing an oath. You scarce could lodge in ahouse where Cod was not worshipped. But,what a dreadful reverse was felt when Prelacywas introduced by arbitrai’y means. It wasilike King Saul’s change—a bad spirit after agood.”“ It is something remarkable, that everytime that Prelacy was established in Scotland,it was accompanied with persecution of theChurch, taking away the rights of the people*and degeneracy in the moral character of thenation. The discipline of the Presbyterianswas too strict for the king and his councillors.The bishops were ambitious, and attainedj:.power and riches, by flattering the great, anc 1passing over their sins. They justified thewicked for reward; and their curates were tl4i; dregs of society, ignorant and wicked. Many: of the bishops had sworn, along with the king(and his nobles, to support the Church they hadoverturned. It was no wonder though theywere regarded as coming in with perjury writ¬ten on their foreheads ; where holiness to theLord had formerly been.” The consequence!was, that the churches were deserted ; and theministers, still bound by God’s laws to theirpeople, taught them from house to house.1 This the bishops could not bear, and fell toI; their former practice of making laws againstthem. The laws against non-conformity, saysDefoe, were so extraordinary, and savoured somuch of a spirit of persecution, were in them-i selves so unjust, and in some things so unna-Itural, that none can wonder though they some¬times drove the poor people to desperation.“ They suffered extremities that cannot bedescribed, and which the heart can hardlyconceive of, from hunger, nakedness, and theseverity of the weather ; where it is known howunsufferable the cold is, lying in damp caves,'without covering, fire, or food. None durst11 harbour, speak to them, or relieve them, buti upon the pain of death.”The whirlwind of persecution carried thei seeds of salvation where the influence of theReformation had not reached. The Scottishborder, proverbial for freebooters or robbers,i felt the divine effects of the banished ministers.: They were there harboured without fear ordread of laws, and kindly entertained. The1 inhabitants of the heath-covered moors, andH the distant isles of the sea, were made glad,! and blossomed as the rose. Thus, the scatter¬ing of th© ministers mads new inroads upona. x xxir.a i i‘J 11, [*. • ’Satan's kingdom. The gospel flourished,though driven from temples made with hands.Many date their conversion from the gladtidings they heard in these wilds, saying withthe Psalmist, Lo ! we heard of thee at Ephra-tah, we found thee in the field of the wood.It was from these banished ministers thatJohn Brown received his superior education.He was intended for the Church, had not anuncommon difficulty of expressing his senti¬ments to strangers prevented him from prose¬cuting his studies. But what was strange, inprayer he was gifted in an extraordinary mea¬sure. In such scriptural language did he pourforth his soul, and at the same time with suchvariety, fluency, and affection, that he appearedlike one superhuman. Many have a gift ofprayer, whose lives bespeak them far from thekingdom of heaven. Such was not Priesthill.His actions with men were just and judicious;so much so, that he was intrusted, when a veryyoung man, with the produce of the neighbour¬ing shepherds, to carry to market and disposeof, and bring back what they required inreturn. In this capacity he got the nameof the Christian Carrier ; and was often thefirst that brought them tidings of the mis¬chief that was framed by law against the Pres¬byterians.He was merely a youth at the rising of Pent-land ; and not having been either at the battleof Drumclog or Bothvvell, he could evade withease the ensnaring questions that every travel¬ler was required to answer; by which means .he passed to and fro unmolested.John Brown's good education was not lost;besides being a source of enjoyment to himself.IJOHX BKOWN OF PRIESTIIUX, 5it was a benefit to the youth for miles around' him, who were then much neglected. No faith-I' ful minister was left to instruct them. The> fathers who used to tell the children what greatI things the Lord had done for Scotland, were| either banished or had suffered death. Toi counteract the bad example of the wicked, who! now walked on every side, since vile men werehigh in place, every Monday night he met withthese young persons, and instructed them fromthe Bible and the Confession of Faith. In summeri| they assembled in a sheep-bught, and in winterI they formed a circle wide around a large fire ofj peats and cannel-coal, that blazed in the middlei of the spence-floor. The effects of the substan-T tial information these rustics got, is felt to thisit day in that neighbourhood. John Brown wasnot alone in this good work; David and1 William Steel were helpmates.It was about the year 1680, that Priesthill1 got acquainted with Isabell Weir, in the parishi of Sorn. She was a very superior woman,: though her disposition was the very reverse ofhis: she was lively and humorous, and couldS cheer up his grave countenance till he w’as asanimated as herself; at other times she woulds sit and listen to the good sense of his conver-i sat ion with the simplicity of a child. She saw! him often, for he had frequently business totransact with her father, when he passed toand from Ayr. They often talked of Zion’strouble ; and what was remarkable, when hesought her in marriage, he told her he felt aforeboding in his mind that he would one daybe called to seal the Church’s testimony withhis blood. If it should be so, she nobly an¬swered, through affliction and death I will bei. JOHN HHOWN OF IMUKSTHII.L,!your comfort. The Lord has promised livegrace, and he will give you glory.After this, the indulged ministers had goneso far in the course of defection, that the moreconscientious sufferers had none they couldhear after the death of Cameron and Cargil.They resolved to form themselves into societies,to meet quarterly, of members delegated fromtheir weekly prayei’-meetings. The second ofthese quarterly meetings took place at Priest-hill, February 1682, where they made a con¬tribution to send a young man to Holland, tobe licensed as preacher to them. The fruitsof this brought forward Mr Ren wick, of glo¬rious memory. And these meetings, for noother end than to enjoy the liberty of servingCod, free from the impositions of men, werecounted seditious, and the members punishedwith death. What a dreadful state was Scot¬land in then, when God’s people were countedher enemies !About two months after this, Priesthill was imarried by Mr Peden, who happened to be in iKyle baptizing cniidren. The marriage took |place in a glen near the house. When Isabelland her company arrived at the spot, theywere surprised at the assembly gathered.Mr Peden welcomed her, and said, these are to ,be witnesses of your vows ; they are all friends, ,and have comeat the risk of their lives to hear tGod’s Word, and to countenance his ordinance ijof marriage. After all was over, Mr Peden Iftook Isabell aside, and said, “ You have got a igood husband, value him highly, keep linen for ia winding-sheet beside you, for in a day when jjyou least expect it, thy master will be taken *from thy head. In him the image of our Lord j jIJOHN BROWN Of PRIESTMTIX. 7and Saviour is too visible to pass unnoticed bythose who drive the chariot wheels of persecu-| tion through the breadth and length of bleed-: ing Scotland. But fear not, thou shalt bei| comforted.”There is something in the human heart thatputs the evil day far away. She could notthink it possible that one so blameless as herhusband could be considered an enemy to any.t| However, the kind warning had this good effecton them both, that none of the trifles that make. such havoc upon domestic peace were regarded| by them.John Brown had, by a former wife, a little| girl about five years of age, who, on the morn-i ing after his marriage, lifted the latch of theIspence-door, and finding Isabell alone, said,while she covered her face shyly with her arm,“ They say ye are my mother.” “ What if Ishould be your mother ?” replied Isabell.' u Naething; but if I thought ye were my mo-!: ther, I would like to come in aside you a wee,”said Jennie, with artless simplicity. “ I hopeI will be your mother, my bairn, and that Godwill give me grace tp be so, and that you willbe a comfort to me and your father.” Andshe proved so. When but a child, she was ahelp and pleasure to them. She would watchher father’s return, and as soon as she sawhis pack-horse (there being no carts in thosedays) at a distance, coming along the bent,she would announce the joyful tidings. Thenthe gudewife hasted, and made ready hismilk porridge, had them dished, covered withi a clean cloth, and warm water to wash hisweary feet, a blazing fire, a clean hearth ;i and she and Janet would go out and welcome8 JOHN BE OWN OF PIUESTHILL.him home, ami help him off with his horse'sload. odl ovnh orfw eaori*The domestic peace and comfort of Priesthillare talked of to this day ; and many anecdotesare told, and one among the rest, that illus¬trates the precept of hospitality to strangers,for thereby some have entertained angels un¬awares. The second year after his marriage,one night in the beginning of winter, JohnBrown had gone to a neighbour’s house : thefamily at home were preparing the wool oftheir flocks for hodden grey cloth, to sell atLowrie’s fair in Hamilton. The shepherdcarded the black and white wool together, forthe women to spin ; Janet and the herd-boywere teasing for the carder ; the gudewife satnursing her first-born son at one side of thefire ; when the dog, which lay at full length atthe other, started up, and ran to the door,barking at the approach of a stranger. Isabellthought it would be her husband returned, andwas about to rise to meet him. Janet and theherd were almost as soon at the door as the dog,and calling to him, “ Whisht, Collie, whisht,ye mu’na speak to the unco man.” The herdcaught the dog in his arms, and returned withhim into the house, while Janet followed, lead¬ing a stranger, first looking to her mother forencouragement, and then to her guest. Sheled him to her father’s chair with a courtesythat seemed to give rise to strong emotions inhis heart.The stranger was young in years, of a littlestature, and fine fair countenance, but he waspale with fatigue and sickness. His shoeswere worn out ; a shepherd's plaid hung roundhim, seemingly for disguise, for by his dressjmix brown or PRtF.tmirLti. 9£uul speech he seemed of n superior rank,if While the servants gazed on him, thegudevvifei did not know whether she should welcomei him as a sufferer, or consider him as a spy ;1 so she left Janet to. perform the kind, officeswhich the stranger required, while she lulledher boy to sleep, b}r singing a verse of an old: song. ios vtu diiw xnodi \o fnoaa iqYVhile the gudewife sang, the stranger’s’ face brightened up, and he more cheerfullyaccepted the child’s endearing attentions, whoplaced him in the warmest corner, helped himoff with" his dreeping plaid, imitating all thej kind offices she had seen her mother perform toi her father, to the no small amusement of theU rest of the family. On the stranger it had aI different effect. He burst into tears, and!l cried, “ May the blessing of him that is readyi to perish rest upon you, my dear bairn. Surelyi God has heard my cry, and provided me a placeto rest my head for a night. O that I had in; the wilderness a lodging-place of wayfaringI men, that I might leave my people and go from1 them ; for they be an assembly of treacherousI men."J Just as he had finished, John Brown entered.1 He gazed at him, and with great deference■ bade him welcome to his house. Do you!know me,” said the stranger. “ I think I do,”said John Brown. “ It was in this house thati the societies met that contributed to send youto Holland, and now I fear they have notreceived you (at least some of them) as theyought.” “ Their reproach has not broken myi heart,” said Mr Benwick, (for it was he, thoughhe w'as not named before the family,) “ but the; excessive travelling, night wanderings, un-10JOHX BROWN OF PRIESTHILL.seasonable sleep, frequent preaching in allweathers, especially in the night, has so debili¬tated me, that I am unlit often for my work.The reproach of those who called me to theministry, I look upon as the device of theenemy to stop the Lord’s work ; but blessed behis grace that has kept me from mixing angeror scorn of them with my sorrow. Some havedeclared that I will never be honoured of theLord to do his poor remnant good. But onething I know, and may say, that the Lord hasdone me good. Oh ! let none fear a sufferinglot. Enemies think themselves satisfied thatwe are put to wander in mosses, and uponmountains; but even amidst the storms ofthese last two nights, I cannot express whatsweet times I have had, when I had no cover¬ing but the dark curtains of night. Yet, inthe silent watch, my mind was led out toadmire the deep and inexpressible ocean ofjoy, wherein the whole family of heaven swim.Each star led me to wonder what He must bewho is the Star of Jacob, of whom all starsborrow their shining. Indeed, if I may termit, I am much obliged to enemies ; they havecovered me many a table in the wilderness,and have made me friends where I never ex¬pected them.”When he ceased speaking, every one of thefamily strove to do him some kindness. Theshepherd brought him clean hose and shoes ;the herd his new nightcap ; the lasses left theirwheels and washed his feet; the gudewife pre¬pared him a warm supper; while little Janet,worn out, was fast asleep at his side.He remained another night with them,and was greatly bettered in his health. ItJOHN BROWN OF PRIESTHILL. 1 Iwas a time of refreshing to the family from onhigh.In those days, hospitality was with manyin reality what it ought to be—purely exercisedfor God’s glory, and without display of gran-' deur. The motives were like silver tried; itwas at the risk of all, even life. Hence, thejoy of such pure intercourse was sweet beyonddescription. As iron sharpeneth iron, so doththe face of man his friend. Renwick andPriesthill talked of the sufferings of the Church,her testimony, her covenanted cause, and herultimate triumph. Yes, they had more com¬fort in the faith that Christ would one day behead over all things, King of kings, and Lordof lords, than the wicked have, when corn andwine do most abound.Soon after Mr Renwick left Priesthill, hisfollowers and he published their ApologeticDeclaration. Mr Renwick was at first averseto the measure, but at last agreed.The circumstances of the times were dismal,says Crookshanks’ History. The societies thathad made choice of Mr Renwick for theirminister were now exposed to the whole ven¬geance of the government. The sea-ports wereshut, that none could leave the kingdom. Theywere pursued by bloody and merciless soldiers:The whole country was sworn to discover them,and bound from giving them meat, drink, orlodgings. Secret spies were hired to find outtheir haunts, or any who shewed them the leastkindness. They were put from under the pro¬tection of the laws of i^heir country. No termswere allowed them but a renouncing of prin¬ciples, and swallowing those oaths by which11 thousand# were involved in the horrid gu It of12JOHN BROWN OF PRIESTHII.I,.perjury. What can we think of that treewhich produced such fruit ?It was under such circumstances that theApologetic Declaration was published. In itmay be seen a spirit, still in Scotland, thatdared to be free from tyranny ; a spirit thatanimated the first Reformers ; that would oneday speak terrible things in righteousness.Although this effort of freedom was like thechild threshing the mountain, and its conse-quence apparently the same, save that theChurch on this account suffered much ; thecourt-party making it a pretence for sendingmore soldiers on the country, particularly aboutLanark, vainly thin king that it would never bewell with them till the south and west ofScotland were made a hunting-field ; and thebetter to execute this, any soldier in the rankshad liberty to shoot all thoij thought suspicious,and it was not long till there was scarce a mossor mountain in the west of Scotland but wasflowered with martyrs.The society that met at Priesthill was soonbroken up. John Wilson, and John Smith ofLesmahago, were shot by Colonel Buchan andthe Laird of Leo, in February ItiSa. JohnBrown of Blackwood, in the same parish, wasshot in the beginning of March following, byLieutenant Murray, after the promise of quar¬ter. The pure snow then on the ground wasstained with his blood. His corpse was buried,under cloud of night, near to the spot where hewas- treacherously slain.After this, John Brown could not continuehis business of carrier, though he had no handin the Apologetic Declaration. His opinion(and his conduct was consistent with it) was.w r-RXF.STIHIil,. .rj, that he ought to live as in an enemy’s country,and without sin. Yet he was often obliged tor, betake to the high lands of Kyle and of Lan¬arkshire, and to bear the chilling cold of MarchSand April winds, with the more bitter blast ofpersecution. Still, however, amidst the stormsof nature, and of the political heavens, he had!; the rainbow of the covenant around his head,and enjoyed a freedom and pleasure that hisi enemies could not rob him of.On one of those days, when driven from hisi home, he fled for refuge to a deep ravine, or:j moss-hag, that had been formed by the currentI of a water-spout, carrying shrubs,. soil, moss,,11 and all before it, to the dale-land beneath,w leaving a frightful chasm, amidst a vast fieldli of heath. Its deep mossy sides made it inac-jl cessible to strangers ; only the neighbouringi husbandmen knew where the brackens hid the1 rocks, whose shelvy sides conducted to thebottom. In the sides of this natural alley1 were dens and caves sufficient to hide a large| company. In one of these, Priesthill intendedi to spend the day in prayer; and had begun toi pour out his soul, in the words of Lamenta¬tions iii. 40, and downwards, when a sweet(sound reached his ear, that seemed to proceedfrom another part of the moss-hag. At firstI it was in a soft under voice, as afraid to beheard, but soon rose above all fear, joined with! others; and the verses of the Psalm weredistinctly sung.“ It is the hallowed sound of praising God,and by some fellow-suSerers,” said JohnJh’own, as he arose from his knees to search1 them out. And to his no small joy found outDavid and William Steel, his neighbours, and14 JOHN RROWN OF PRIESTHILI.Joseph Wilson from Lesmahago, in the cleftof a rock that jutted half-way into the ravine.David Steel had a narrow escape the day be¬fore this. When just about to begin themorning worship, one cried out, “ There is theenemy coming.” He arose with the Bible underhis arm, and, without knowing what he wasabout, went into the byre, and laid himselfdown in an empty cow-stall, putting the Bibleon his breast. His wife, equally unconscious,turned over him a heap of bedding, just as thesoldiers entered the place. They stabbed thestraw where he lay, but the Bible received thepoint of the sword, and they left the housewithout finding their victim. William Steel’shouse was near at hand, and was also searched.His wife had locked him in her clothes-press.After they searched every place without suc¬cess, and had left the house, a soldier returned,and said to the gudewife, “ Mistress, next timeyou hide, hide better; part of your husband’scoat is locked without your press and withthese words, he left her, to join his company.After he was gone, to her amazement, she foundit as the soldier had said. It was to avoid *such harassing scenes that they had all fled to i?the ravine; and they found, to their sweet ex- nperienoe, this dreary waste a Bethel; and in ?their harassings and hidings, as it was with iMoses on the Mount, nearest God when far- ’thest from creature comforts. All day, theyread God’s Word, and prayed by turns ; and iduring the dark and silent watches of the night,by turns they prayed and praised.The seventy-fourth Psalm was deeply im¬printed on their memories, from its being re¬markably descriptive of their situation. The fJOHN BROWN OF PRIESTHfBB. 15whole of it was sung about midnight ; and whilethe wind carried the sound to the dale landbelow, faith carried the matter up to heaven.It entered the ear of the God of sabaoth, throughthe highly exalted Intercessor for His suffering1 Church. And though the Lord waited to begracious, as the cup of wickedness that theStuart race was to fill had not come to thebrim, they were to fill it: but he sent the Com¬forter to uphold them with peace and joy, ini1 believing that it was Jesus' cause they were suf-i| fering for. And though counted as slaughter-! sheep, they were fed in green pastures, andij drank of that river of life, whose divine influencei refreshed their souls passing all understanding.I They felt a peace that made them loath toII part. Every one was sensible that the presenceof God had been with them. It was in this» spirit that these poor haunted saints spent the| time till morning dawned ; and the lark arosein above their heads, joining his notes with theirsi in praise to God for the light of another day.William Steel, who escaped death from theI persecutors, and lived many years after then Revolution, said often, if ever there was a timeIin his life that he would wish to enjoy overagain, it was that in which he suffered perse¬cution, especially that day and night he spentIin the moss-hag. They all thought it would betheir last meeting on.earth. He was the firstthat ascended from the ravine to look if thef enemy were in view ; and it being a clear morn-iingr and no person in sight, they all followed,and were standing to consult'on the separate< paths they would take home, to prevent themi from being seen, when they were struck silenti by a voice, swreeter than anything they had ever1G JOHN BROWN OF PRIESTIULL.heavil, passing over the ravine, singing thesewordsornso# erfl bonijw hnrw odtOh ! let the prisoners’ sighs ascendBefore thy sight on high ;Preserve those by thy mtghty power,That are ordained to die.And again, while they still stood speechless,another voice sung, in tones of exultation :—Though ye have' Jam among the pots,Like doves ye shall appear,Whose wings with silver, and with goldWhose feathers covered aro.After standing for some time looking at oneanother, some of them thought they had leftother worshippers in the moss-hag; othersthought that the sound echoed from a greaterdistance. “ Whoever or wherevur the wordscome from, we have little concern,” said JohnJlrown; “ one thing we may take comfort from;they are God’s words to his Church in affliction ;and that is our situation. Who lie among thepots 2 We scullions, black in the opinions ofour enemies. But God sees us not as mansej?s us, but compares us to doves—doves onthe wing, whose feathers of gold and silver arebest seen when they fly. It may be, we areon the wing to an eternal world, and this Be¬thel meeting is preparing us to mount up with,wings like eagles. If so, let us keep in mindthat we have nothing to boast of, but grace,grace; unto it is our acknowledgement.” Whilehe spoke, his countenance beamed the pleasant¬est ever they had seen ; ami when he partedfrom them, they stood and looked after him.It was the last time they saw. him in life, andthe last time they heard him speak. He hada most uncommon talent in communicatinginformation and consolation to others, andJOHN’ BROWN OF PRIKSTHILL. ] 7I when he oame himsejf to be tried, he was noti! left a cast-away.”j Among the last of the needy adventurers ofI Charles II.’s reign, who could swim through theI blood of their more conscientious countrymento favour and emolument, was Graham ofClaverhouse. “ He was descended from the; house of Montrose, and was educated inI France, the best school for dissolute manners' and cruelty. He fought against the Frenchin the Low Countries, under the Prince ofti Orange; but being refused the command ofi one of the Scottish regiments then in the Dutchservice, he left it in disgust and came over toEngland. His dissolute manners and vivacityli soon got him notice at court, and the commandI of a party of Highlanders.” His first appear-iance on the stage of Scotland’s tragedy was in111678, taking free quarters for himself and menliljin tho house of Gilbert M‘Michen, in NewI, Glenluce ; and when they went off, besides whatI;they consumed, they took with them three{horses, worth ten pounds each. In every suc¬ceeding appearance he may be marked as risingmin cruelty and exaction.1“ What Ilishop Burnet says of Dalziel, maybe affirmed of Claverhouse with equal, or per¬haps with greater truth : that he acted theMuscovite too grossly, threatening to spit men,and roast them alive. He pleaded, in excuse,(that terror was true mercy, if it put an end to,|or prevented war.”Charles being now dead, James Duke ofjYork required such instruments to compelteubmission to his system of cruelty. Havinginow thrown off the mask, the suspicion of thejBeformers, that Prelacv was to beJr-  —.—] 8 JOHN BROWN OF PRIESTH1M-.to the introduction of Popery in Scotland, wasverified. For that purpose, he enlarged thecommission of Claverhouse, and created himViscount of Dundee; and none was better fittedto drive fell Bums ploughshare through every¬thing that could make life desirable.“ The measure of fixing garrisons of soldiersthrough the south and west counties, as if Scot¬land had been invaded by a foreign enemy,was the beginning of many cold-blooded mur¬ders in the field. One of these garrisons wasfixed at Lesmahago.” Claverhouse came un¬expectedly there, late on the last night ofApril 1685, and having heard of John Brown’spiety and non-conformity, by six o’clock nextmorning he was at Priesthill—a proof how hethirsted after the blood of such men.John Brown, as usual, had arisen with thedawn, and had offered up the morning sacrifice.His wife often told how remarkably the Psalm,sung that morning, tended to gird up the loinsof their minds. It was Psalm xxvii. 1-4. Thechapter read was John xvi., equally suitable;and his prayers w'ere like those of one lostto the world, and entered into the holy ofholies, through the rent vail of the Redeemer’sdeath.How good is it, when the Lord comes, to be |found watching in the way of doing our duty, |was experienced in no small measure by the Ifamily at Priesthill. After worship, the gude- |man went to the hill to prepare some peat- |ground; the servants were also out, but atsome distance, when Claverhouse surroundedthe helpless man with three troops of dragoons,and brought him down to his own house. HeLift his implements of industry with great com-JOHN' bK'JW'X Of I'MESTIULL.19posure, and walked down before them morelike a leader than a captive.Meanwhile, Janet had alarmed her mother{ by telling her that a great many horsemen; were coming down the hill with her father.“ The thing that I feared is come upon me;O give me grace for this hour !” said her mo-| ther, hastily taking up her boy, and wrappingi him in her plaid, and taking Janet by the hand,she went out to meet her foes, praying in secreti as she went.I Claverhouse asked John Brown,—Why he! did not attend the curate, and if he would prayi for King James? It was remarkable, that,:l| though a stammerer in speech to strangers,i this morning he answered Claverhouse dis-, tinctly. He said he acknowledged only Christi as supreme head of the Church, and could noti attend the curates, because they were placed|i there contrary to His law, and were mere crea¬tures of the bishops, and the bishops werei creatures of the king,—and he being a Papist,(and himself a Protestant Presbyterian, who,Mj along with all ranks in the nation, had swornand covenanted to God that no Papist shouldtl bear rule over these lands,—so that he neitherI could nor would pray for him. But if he re-j pented and turned from his wicked way, hef would acknowledge, obey, and pray for him.I Upon hearing this, Claverhouse said, Go to• your prayers, for you shall immediately die,which he did in such a manner as filled thetroops with amazement. On his family it hadI a different effect. His wife, who was greatwith child, with another in her arms, and Janetat her side, stood while he prayed “ that everycovenanted blessing might be poured upon her20 JOHN BROWN OF PRIESTHH.!.:and her children, born and unborn, as onerefreshed by the influence of the Holy Spirit,when he comes down like rain upon the mowngrass, as showers upon the earth.”When Olaverhouse could bear his prayersno longer, and had succeeded, after interrupt¬ing him twice with the most blasphemouslanguage, to raise him from his knees, JohnBrown said to his wife, Isabell, this is the dayI told you of before we were married ; andadded, with his usual kindness, you see mesummoned to appear in a few minutes beforethe court of heaven, as a witness in our Re¬deemer’s cause against the ruler of Scotland ;are you willing that I should part from you ?Heartily willing, said she, in a voice that spokeher regard for her husband and her submissionto the Lord, even when he called her to bowbefore His terrible things. “ That is all I waitfor; 0 death, where is thy sting ? O grave,where will be thy victory?” said John Brown,while he tenderly laid his arms around her,kissed her and her little boy, and lastly Janet,saying to her, my sweet bairn, give your handto God as your guide, and be your mother’scomfort: he could add no more, a tide of ten¬derness overflowed his heart. At last heuttered these words, “ Blessed be thou, O HolySpirit ! that speaketh more comfort to myheart than the voice of my oppressors canspeak terror to my ears !” Thus, when theLord brought his witness to be tried, he dis¬covered such a magnanimity, that, as he fell,he conquered his persecutors.If, in the Christian’s life, there is a light thatdiscovers the* spots of the wicked; so, in the 1martyr’s heroic grappling with death, there wasJOHN lillOWN OF riHESTHII.L.21a heat that scorched past enduring. It was,doubtless, under this feeling that (Jlaverhouseordered six of his dragoons to shoot him erethe last words were out of his mouth ; but hisprayers and conduct had disarmed them fromperforming' such a savage action. Theystood motionless. Fearing for their mutiny,(Jlaverhouse snatched a pistol from his ownbelt, and shot him through the head. * * *And, while his troops slunk from the awfulscene, he, like a beast of prey that tramplesand howls over a fallen victim, insulted thetender-hearted wife, while she gathered up theshattered head, by taunting jeers:—“ Whatthinkest thou of thy husband now, woman“ I ever thought meiklegood of him,” said she,“ and now more than ever.” He, seeing hercourage, said, “ It were but justice to lay theebeside him.” She replied, “ If ye were permit¬ted, I doubt not your cruelty could go thatlength ; but how will ye answer for this morn¬ing’s work.” With a countenance that beliedhis words, he answered, “ To men I can beanswerable, and as for God I will take him inmy own hands.” Thus saying, he hastily putspurs to his horse, and left her with the corpse.She tied up his head with her napkin, composedhis body, covered it with her plaid, and whenshe had nothing further to do or contend with,she sat down on the ground, drew her childreni to her, and wept over her mangled husband.The mourners of Priesthill did not long wantfriends. The report of the foul deed circulatedrapidly, creating dismay and abhorrence. Whomow could think themselves safe, when Johnplrown was thus treated, who was not other¬wise obnoxious to Government than in not at-22 JOHN BROWN OF PRIESTHILL.tending the curate, and he several miles dis¬tant ? The first who arrived on the spot wasDavid Steel’s wife, one well fitted to comfort inthe most trying dispensation. She ran up tothe group, and throwing her arms around them,saluted Isabell thus, “ Wow, woman ! and hasyour master been taken from your head thisday ? and has God taken you and your childrenunder his own care, saying, I will be a husbandto the widow, and a father to the fatherless ?No wonder though ye are overcome and aston¬ished at his doings.” This salutation arousedand strengthened the widow. She rememberedthe words of Mr Peden, and she arose fromthe ground to search out the linen he hadwarned her to prepare. About this time, DavidSteel, and William Steel with his wife, arrived,and assisted Isabell to bring in and wrap upthe precious dust. All was done, while thesilence of death reigned over the household.As was said of the proto-martyr Stephen,devout men carried him to his burial: in likemanner was John Brown, for literally God’shidden ones carried him forth, and laid him inhis grave, on the very spot where he fell.Renwick writes, on one occasion, to SirR. Hamilton, after a field-preaching, “ that ifever God could be tied to any place, I think itis to the muirs and mountains of Scotland.”Rutherford many a time declares, “ Sweet,sweet is the cross ; and no wonder, when Christbears both us and it.” The sorrow of therighteous is better far than the joys of thewicked, that are only like the crackling ofthorns under a pot, and worketh death. Hada miracle opened the eyes of Claverhouse,as it did the eyes of the prophet’s servant,JOHN Hi.OWN OF PKIESTHILL. 23to have seen John Brown’s soul from “insultspringing,” at the moment his body fell amangled corpse, he would have seen himselfchanged from a powerful oppressor, like Ha¬inan, to a mean servant, only fit, as an instru¬ment, to clothe the humble sitter at the king’sgate in royal robes and a glorious crown, andusher him into the city of Shushan as a manwhom the King delights to honour. It was notgranted that his eyes should be opened by amiracle, or by faith in God’s written testimony,to see himself as he really was ; but God’svicegerent, conscience, even in this life, speaksout awful things of righteousness and judgmentto come. “ He afterwards acknowledged thatI John Brown’s prayer made such an impressioni on his spirit, that he could never get altogetherworn off, when he gave himself liberty to think.”Thus, mischief haunts the violent man, and the“ bloody and deceitful man shall not live halfhis days.” This was eminently exemplified inthe lives and death of the persecutors of thatage ; and in none more than in Graham ofClaverhouse.His maxim, of terror being true mercy, if itprevented or put an end to war, like every otherattempt to do evil that good may come out ofit, proved fallacious ; and acting up to it wasthe means of bringing on the Revolution of 1688,and of “ banishing James VII. from the throneand hearts of the people of Scotland.” Claver¬house, for various reasons, had no alternativeli than to follow the fortune of his benefactor.When he found a la^ge majority in the Scotsi Convention on the side of William, he leftl Edinburgh with the determination of exerting< h’mself in the cause of James, in the field.S4JOHN RT'ONVN OK KIU KSTII H.I..Not long after this, he appeared openly in armsat Inverness, and was successful at the battle ofKillicrankie—putting William’s army to flight;but while in the act of raising himself on the'saddle, and waving with his arm, pointing toguard the pass of Killicrankie, that his favouritemaxim, “ no quarter,” might be put into exe-lcution, lo ! a musket-bal] passed into his arm-pit, that proved fatal in a few hours after. Hisestate was made over to the house of Douglas ;and his widow, marrying to Lord Kilsyth, andreturning to Holland, became, along with herchildren, the victim of a dreadful misfortune.The house in which she resided at Utrechtfalling suddenly in, and overwhelming the wholefamily, his name and titles became extinct.About fifty years ago, a gentleman riding toEdinburgh fell into conversation with a respect¬able-looking countrywoman on the road, andlearning that she was a grand-daughter of JohnBrown, he on that account made her ride be-!hind him into the city. So much was the me¬mory of the Christian Carrier respected. A ndwhat was a proof of the harmony of his family,'jshe could not tell whether she was of the first!or the second wife’s children. None of themnow reside at Priesthill, but their house stands;)and the broad flat stone that covers their'father’s grave is shewn, writh this inscription :—fIn death’s cold bed, the dusty part here liesOf one who did the earth as dust despise :Here in this place from earth he took departure ;Now he has got the garland of the martyr.Butcher’d by Clavers and his bloody band,Raging most rav’nously o’er all the land,Only for owning Christ’s supremacy,Wickedly wrong’d by encroaching tyranny.Nothing how near so ever he to goodEsteem’d, nor dear for any truth his blood.