]*>>3X3x3*>' Jx]X>]X]X]X3*3*3*3*3*3*3*JX]x3x3x3x3xXXXXXXTHEENTERTAININGHIS TORYl— ~==sa: «s-—BY^ HOTAt EMIGRANT,0 E F parte’' 'CHnoL PEI f. Ws.r i- K H KPRINTED"BY T JOHNSTON8iOx x x‘ >«xCX[X[X[x[XL*cx[x[OF THEEARLY YEARSOF * ~LGeneral Bonaparte, ^COMMANDER IN chief 'rof ■jhe french forces in thepresent war:Prom h;s Birth, to his receiving theCommand of the Army of Italy.^r-.z=     *[;xcx[*rXX*EXCx[xCxrx[x[xrxcXLXLXLXLXLXLxrx£$xL f-Y****^, 'T‘^fw^L*.?..*.t.^C*'CvJ 3«afifonTHEtan;> vHrENTERTAINING HISTORYp9i;&- 9rf|iSC^0F the early years orifljOlf?oi'XfoJNAPOLEONE BONAPARTE,bhEMprRoii or France.'*> Wm 1 ;t vf, •trt5t 13Y^7#0ii >#•••••••* •••••♦•••#• * • « • •.«.» » J ^ ^ • •«»-• • • • ♦ ^I HE Following account of the earlyyears of the Emperor Bonaparte,is from the pen of a Noble Emigrant,who was, for fom4 time, his fchpol companion.It' wa. trahflated by a mpft refpt Aable Gentlemanto whom the French author is intimately knownas a men of unimpeached probity, candour, andgood fenie; and therefore the narrative mav beconfidered authentic. The work from whichit is ejctra&ed appeared in print fome time ego,but was immediately called in after publication,for reafons which now no longer exrtl it ap¬peared in the Kello Mail, the editor of whichfays, he had it from the t raffia tor.( 3 ) ~Bonaparte, of a family origiualfy Italianvas born, in the year ,769, at Calvi, a littletown of Corfica, of parent* noble but poor-h.s god-father, the tdebrated Paoli, KaVehmi at the font the name cf Napoleone.-.Madame de Bonaparte, his mother?fome, as they fay), had attraaed the atten¬tion of the Count de Marbceuf, named bvoais XV. to the government of Corfica *U 1S. t0 him that malice afcribe* thehonour of the hero’, birth. Should thi* betrue, rt would give force to the world s wild’cpimon, which inclipes to bellow on childrenthe offspring of unlawful love, a more decidedand manly ebara&er. However that mi ud.monies °f f-iendlh.p and good-will towardsth“ family of Bonaparte; and had pamicui^Jta'cc,, on hirtiTcIf- m care of ife Jwnom he a long „mr ^credit and his purfe. In 1778 thr rhad deligned to lend hiiIronce, .,1(1, ,he J'J*catr n fuitable t<r his birth, and neceflarv tohis future eltabliflimem. f t0France, under the ancient governmentand, more particularly, under the reiVu 5L,»ls XV. »d ol-LoOis XVI. haddkol.lhn,*,,,. for of Kn edTl f!™" and tfio mamlconceof the Kirgf had fpared-nothing to nncWthem, at the fame time, ufeful and agreeable( 4 )to voting men. Thefe inftkutions, calledEcoles Roy ales Militaries^ were to the numberof thirteen, and eiiabliflied in diflkrcnt pro¬vinces of the kingdom; tliat of Paris lefved asa centre to the whole,' and was the obj'fbto which the young men, admitted b\ theKi ng, dire&ed their views. It held upas a recompence to thofe who mod diitinguifh-cd themielves bv their progrefs in the differ¬ent tludies. For that pu- pofe, a Royal Infpeflor,commonly a General Officer, accompanied bytwo Members of the Academy, made everyyear a revew of the fchools. The examina¬tion was made, in his pre'ence, with the moilfcrupulous exmftnef'; and thofe of the pupilswho, to th ir proficiencv in (tody, receivedthe the teftimonv '.'f the Reg ms in favours oftheir characier, were admitted to the Mili¬tary .School of Paris.• * •From their entrance Into the fchool at anearly age, the mind and bodies of fhe pupilswere kept in conltant employ ment; and tiieirinflm&yjn cundnutd for y or 8 \ears; dur¬ing ■'Ijich time, the mod unremitting carewas .quail) bellowed on all. The melt ablejnaders in tv ry branch gave up all ih, irtime to direfl ihe ftudies of the \outh. andinfpire them r ith fentiments of virtue. TheRmT of ancient and modern languages, of hif-tprv, of geography, of ma’hemati*, and theV3' i u branch,es of military feie- ce, formedthe bails of their education. And in thefcefiufnjoSpaid to youtbful ;iapniAi6n,i eh* aggr«fai>lev/a6 not forgotten; tkat, hy Fci)derinf.-fci^naeami We# the. yeuth . mi^. hot .^fmtraa. tlijat,d --yoc& of manner whieh. too: freq.i^nt^’ a?-coir.j'auies pri'fcund ejjujitioji.It v/as in one 'of tlit*ft fthopft' (ffeCotirtt de MatBocfrf was ideSfoW^h' pi Ac* theyeii'n^- Bdhapfrrte: Gofiiei, finb* beiHg tfiteilto't raaieV haSf'liKtatned foV’ i'tiJihfis^tfets,hrriohg ‘otft'ei- pfirUe^es "that’ of faringroyal bfcneScensc S fo’ that the^Ctfeift-ThaU 'i?o'difSduWy tVproc’tfre Tor His prJttgt' ifk putTeof'one of &i Hoi. T ri. - .Ttjj ar- -, .The Ma'rechal de ~Svgnr,-fhsn Minift«r.of War, and charged with she denirtrfttht.ot .vlilitary Schools, placed Bonaparte in that,,f Brientob, in Ghamprigne ; in which he entered,1'beiieve, i.'i the Ic^inuirg 0f the y;ar t;;;.It was ah.ret ifi.teen ftr eighteen month?after mart?ft, th’at Trty father, "availing hi&Felfof the right which all 'ttrangers of'Tarhily hadto edticatd .their diildrch in thefe royal inili-tutions,* fjnt mb there to 'begirt niy e'dlieatlbn.Different in'tem.pe'r ai'd tVi’.t’rttcler, aihTvoungerthan Bon&parte-, T- fbritleti ’no pai'tidtil&r friefulBlip wtth him ; but ifting under the fame roof,and fliaring the fame esercifds, 1 rerAafkei!hint early- as fometivitig e.'ftraoi’Jiniir'y, ppr-cciving not one, among one hundred and fiftyyoutliS, who in the leail refembled him, eii.berin difpoiiucm or tafle. In this I only cor.fvi«-ecl an idea very generally allowed, that cluldrcnare oft c'n more oM'erving than they appear to'be*Ot thle, curiofity is probably in therrt theonly caufe, being more eager in youth tlian■advanced age ; and a young perfon, withouttroubling himfelf about the rcafcti, vtldchId’s faculties are not yet able to reach, hashi- attenrion attradled and fixed ord.y by thatv.Iiich ftrikes him. Bonaparte, With inchtia-tions diiTerent from his companions, feparatcdhi/nTtlf from us. and therefore became, natural-Iv enough, the ohjeft of our obftrvation.I do hot recoiled, that he ever fhevcdthe .flightcu partiality in favour of ar.y ofhij'coTnraqesV gloomy and fierce to cxcefs,afriy, ft.‘rdway's by himfeif, one might fay, that,xipivly lilued from a fdrell, and, till then, with,■(irahvjiv from the fight < f men, lie now began,for the .Sell time, to feel the imprefiions offurpciTe and of fufpicion. Continually alone,averfe hkewife to all tltat is called children’splays and amufements, he never was feen tolharc in the noiiy mirth of his fchool-fellows !very., far fro; ) that, if fometimes he camejonjopg tijem. :t.was only to find fault, notwith-ifanlir.g the known danger to 'which a boy-pCQ#2&k~ue inevitably expofes himfelF, bv re¬primanding bis young companions ; a dangero: which his growing courage had early taughthim not to he afraid; for, when attacked bya number of our fchool-fellows, whom hisaas'.Uaies bui .provoked, I haye fccn l.lrn repp’,with the xxtmoW fang frsid, tlrea’ bihws aridunited e£f )rt^! Thus, To young, \ liunap.'ttefeemed to di'dam to be n > mpt;e but a .child,£5 if he..had already forefeen that delfinywould one day call him to furraour.t thegrcatell obllacles.Donaparte fitewed very early ,thc defu-e,or rptlier the peel ot liberty. fhe love ofIds country (the liiand of C tjrfica, which hethen condiereti as his native home) triumphedalready- over the fentimeiu of gratitude dueto the bounty of the King. The idea of de*pendence appeared to turn degrading; he washumbled by it ; and often indignant to be expo-led tot he malicious .vittipifnis of his comrades onthe union of Corliea to the monarchy of France.I hof^t to be a hie,’’ replied he, in the toneof an </Fended fplrit, u i hope to be able,<ne day. to reftore it to freedom?” Uncon-Icious then, that he was to be called in a few•■ cars to fix the power of France itfelf, arc!decide the fate of the other great'dates ofKurcpe.His firft (lepe in learning were rot markedby any extraordinary progrefs; and wheherfrom careleilicfs or dillike, he gave but littleapplication to the (ludy. of the Katin tongue.This negligence appears fo much the moreaftonifliing, as his .defire of r.dlruTon amioccupation very Icon, became in h.tm a reali']; 4 b i^la'cr.t gen'fj/ already dU'eSed hischoice to t’ie iuidy of'thof-i' branches cf’hfiov.'-ledi^, yvhheu -Mere iftanvardi t6'become theiaftrameftVa' c'f’Kis glory." Slafheitiatics," foritijfeatiJb, t;»3 ci’trfcfc and defence of 'places,bat, above a’’, 'the* ftudy of hiltory/occnplcd 'all his t'nrib; Tb thebe fttrdies'be- gave 'him-icif up 'VKlicut relaxation; and I have nodoubt fcr.t his chthufirfin originated in hiathreading • or the- • lives !of' great' andiMuihhbiis men, whom he had* from the begih-nv:loV pt’bpoied to hirnfgff a» proper models;was table to i'Kige better than myfelfor the hncoihmo’n aVidky-with wbioh-'heJpoP-ftird his rradingi; . and the great conneaieusvdimh.wo hud together om that'-hpad^wese;doobtlei's, .v.-batr.eoBtriiiatfd- 'ta dix -my atten¬tion upon hhn in fo pTtFticn'ar n-raanner. 'faespLm that • more clearly, it is <nieliahy< tomentis an nlkbiii.h'Tnent \vhic’r had takenqiir.ee,,nl the Milkarv 'Scliooi fef •Brifcntie, • duri-r;the rehclence of Bor.aparte, which was thef-'iindati'on of a library entirely Ur her thethroilion. of tlie young, men, and deuined totheir plea lure and inftruetion.Ihu, to give uj proper notions of- arrange-mgr.y, our fuperiors propofed to leave thedntributjon of the books,'-and the admiiiiAra-tmn or the funds, dedicated to the fupportoir the library, to the abiblute management<u two of the boardevs, tti be chofen by theircomrades. I was one of thole whom my( 9 )fchooMellows had namu:d to that employment,to v.inch I gave the leifere li urs of ih'eeyears, perhaps the mold plealam in my life.It was then that I had repealed opportuni¬ties to fee Bsnaparte, who, perhaps, in pre¬ference .lo me, ought to hayu been chofen thelibrarian ; but our companions thought other-wife ; and probably he would have tiiklainedthe appointment, believing all the momentsloft to his own in!iru<ftioii which he mult havefacnficed to the minute detail of iuch an ofiice.However that may be, his calls became iovery frequent as to render me unreafonab’.yout of hum«ur. It is- in the nature of man,and, in mv own judiftcation, not lets in thatof children, to arrogate to themfelves, by de¬grees, all the privileges of amherity. It war,indeed, my duty, to have .been complailamt,but I found it more convenient lo be capric.-ous. Plagued by demands fo often repeated,I fometimes jiretended to miltuke hip app.t*cation for teafing and inten'.tonal importuni¬ties ; and fometimes, alfo, I had reafon to re-j»erit my ^udenefs. Bonaparte young, wasnot*niore patient, nor lefs pofuive than now,and has made me frequently feel, that it vrasalmoll tinfafe to provoke him. At that timeI. Should have been' allnthed to own id, but atprefeiit fuch a confeiTi.in ia not to'painful.lleferved in his temper, and wholly be-etipied by his own purfaits, Boneparte court-'ed that lolitude which fetrr.ed to ccnflitutc( la )nil the money which the Com,, de Marb&ofhad letit to him for his little exf>enocs. Thegreen aibours, which he planted himfelf, andcultivated with the utmoll pains, renderedhis gaidtjn, at^ the end of t>vo years,, the re-tr.ent of a gerft^l hermit. Woe to the cu¬rious, the malicious, or the playful, whod?red to trouble his repole! You mightjea bim. httrfl furious from his retreat toaepei, them, nor 'was he ihtcrrcd bv th.enumber of his alfhlants. It was in this cdn-psal^d retirement where the foul of lloftaparte,greedy of glory, mfeniibly evolved the .feedof that ^oble ainbition,; feaftmg on the exampleof thole great men whom he ■ was preparinghimfeli tojurpafs.fad to be remarred. Incapable to eflimaie hisuncommon merit, or rather to penetrate histrue motives, hi> fuperihrs, and his ichool-fellows, taxed liim as foolilh and rediculous.icA mode of life fo very fingular, could rotli.very mean was tried, but 'him to himfclf, by makingcon lu-S. Infenfible to affronts wHich he couldnot refent, - he repelled the1 faillenes of themakers by filenfce and difdain. Mumihation,and even puniflinaent, which were alfo employ¬ed had no better tuccels.'I believe I have forgotten to mention, thatthe meetings of the young-men were eitabTili-ed on a military fooung. Divided into com¬panies, they compoled a little battalion, theColonel and all the officers of \\hieh, cholVnamong ourfeWe*, were decorated by tlie- or¬naments which dii'idguifh the French dnifofm’.Bonaparte hadJ the -rank of Captain. Onbwould fuppole that7 he mud be ftnfible to thblofs of a didinction only grunted to fficFit,and eVerv day becoming m n-e ffatfering from,the eageinefs by which it was fought for Bythe young men. A council of war, effablifti-ed with all its fomrs, declared him unworthyto command thofe comrades vhofe good willbe defpifed. After the fenter.ee was read,which degraded him to the lad place of thebattalion, he was dripped of the diflinguilhsing marks of his rank. Bonaparte appearedimenfiole to the adrotii, or clUilained\ at lead,to- diow 'that he was jiff-fted by it; his iupe*riors, perhaps, r,epcnu;d having obliged himto undergo this dilgrace j but bis comrades,from that time, redored to him 'their fritni-Ibip, became generous minded yo.uth C-rdei*to perfecute thofe who are unfortunate.( 12 )This conduct had the moft happy enea.B° laparte d his fenfc of th.- g hur '.kyof his young friends* He _c ntinued h,, iiu-dies, but became more foci able with his’ichool-fellows; he joined fonietinae# in our games,and acquired by that a right to propose’;’’in'histurn, iome new diverfibn. It would 'havebeen little amufement to him, if he could nothave united utility with plealure ; and, in fa£t,the plays whtch he propofed, marked llronglyhis character. The Olympic games of Greece,and thofe of the Cuvus of Route, were the mo¬dels he propofed for our i'mitaUon. Noveltypieafes children, particularly thofe of tfrance.Bonaparte became our leader, and the lofs ofhis title of Captain was fdon replaced by thatof Director of ©dr diverfions, which was unani-moutly granted to him. If menj in their Plea-iurcs, almoft always exceed th? limits of mo¬deration, we may er.fdy fuppofe that virtue to- Itill more feldorn tire lot of young people.Odr games became battles; bv turns Romansand Carthaginians, Greeks and Perfians, we be¬lieved ourfelves called upon to imitate the en-thufiailic fury of thofe ancient warriors. Stoneswere weapons, and fllten productive of wounds,fo that our fuperiors found themRlves obligedto reprefs our courage. The games were for¬bidden, and our Gereral feverely reprimanded.Lonaparte withdrew himfelf into his favouritegarden, refutned his former occupations, andappeared n'o more among us, till the fnow,covering tne ground, and concealing .the Hones,( 13 ^furniftied him with a pretext to open a newcampaign.The ‘VoiUiiues became, neix.fiarily, ofanotner fort, and the m dern art of warfucce'eded to that of the ancient. Being fieri-ouify occupied by the iludy of fortification,he 'viflied to put his theory in practice ; andfoon entrenchments, forts, balUons and redoubtswere erefted of ihow, in the great court ofthe frfiool. We all laboured at thefe workswith an acTivity and pleafure which can beeafjy imagined, the young Bonaparte<lireftingour operations. The whole was executed withfo much art and exaclnefs, as to excite the curi-oiity of the town, and even of ftrangers, whocame in crouds, during the winter, to admireour fcrtincaiions of fnow!As foon a? thefe works were fiiiiflied, we hadno peace till the order of attack and defencewas let:.led. Bonaparte again took the careof directing our motions; and, by turns, atthe head of afiailants and opponents, he learnedbetimes, from thefe ufeful games, to unite ad-drefs with con rag;. S to w-balU were the wea¬pons of both parties, and the wounds they gave,fi'ot being mortal, our mailers faw oar diverli*ons widlout alarm; they eveiv'bad the goodfenfe to entyurr.ge them, by appbuling thofewho dllllngublicti themfelves, w lyetker by ihekcourage, or by Ionic he vv llratagejp. Bonaparte,'0( »4 ) / ^already fertile in ex pediments, found means tokeep up the diverfion, by devifing, every day,fomV neV mantEuvres; but the inn of the monthof March didurbed bur amufements, and putan end to them till the winter.Such was the fehool, and fuch the firitbflay of the young hero, who, fince. at thehead of a new raifed army, without discipline,and almoit without confidence, has known howto conquer the braved ,troops of ifurope, anddifconcert the meafures of the moil experiencedGenerals. Eager to gain the approbation ofHu young, rivals, it \v.as in thefe juvenile_plnysthat be firit learned the way to conquer; fromthem Sprung that swarlike enthufral'm, whichafforded the firit difplay of his great genius!Kindled iato admiration of the heroes of anti¬quity, their great actions and virtues becamehis models, and the .glory, of furpallirg themthe object of his life.Notwiihuanding the conltant excercife andamulements of which I have fpokeh, and inwhich, Bonaparte took’fo aftive a part, I amfully perfuaded that his eonilitution fufi'eredmuch from lon^ inaction, during his firft yearsat Ichool. A too, clbfe application tna\ per¬haps retard more than a long continued repofe ;for, tho’ of a rot in calculated to relift fatigue,and of much natural Ifrength, he ’rad alwaysthe appearance of a weak and delicate health.( 15 } , .AUUo’ C(£,a middle ft&tere he ixmaikublefor ihe breadth of his Tnoulders his eyes, ofM deep blue, are fmall but animated; his hairbrov. n. his forehead lar^e and prominent; lushis chinmarp, his face long, and his complexionolive ; the general expredion of his countenancedoes not iirihe at fifft fight, but in cbfervinghim with aaention, you icadily uiUinguith .thetraces of deep thinking, and th, vivacity of hislooks, indicate,.erieigy at,d adivity.His witli Jr airing from the fociety of hisccmrader, htd given a rudenefs,* perhaps a fe-rc-city,' to'hts .madr.cr ; and fubjeef to violentpalhon, his anger againfl his yomig companionsTometimes amounted even to fury : the inftanceI am going to repeat is molb charafleriflic.Kverv year, on the 25th. o? Augufb, theday of St.- Louis, the pupils of the MilitarySchool, in honour of the K-mg, were per mi t-tc-d, almoft without reftrdint, to give them-ielves up to pleafure, apd the moi^ noify de-monftrations of joy. Kverv fpecies of puhifliment was fufpendec! during t'nat happy day ;and it is eafy to forfee, that it c -uld feidornmfs, witlrout beir.g attended b\ Lme ac^idfeht:but, wit hep t blaming or txcuuiig.ihat too,greatindulgence of our mailers I will only recounttliat of which I was an'cye-v, hriefs.♦( >6)Whenever a pupil had reached the a£e offouneen. a cu tom (which we kept up withgr a’ ca e i give him the privilege to purchafea q iamity of gun-powder f r St. Louis day;and during the fortnight " hich preceded ihefo-lemnitv, the youtig pe -pie of that age aflT ciaiedtog her to prepa e fire-works. The induigen-Cy went even lo har, to intrufl them withfome Imall pieces of artillery, fome mufltetsand pillojs, which were fired to announce theday. What joy ! what moment 1 perhaps themolt happy of our lives.So complete and fo animated was the gen¬eral pleafure among.I the fcholars, as to rendermore remarkable the indifference, real or affqfted,which Bonaparte tedified on that ocCrtfion, beingthe laft year (i5!35.) which he paffed at thefchool of Brienne. Retired the whole day in hisgarden, he not only did not participate in thepublic rejoicing, but affected to continue his ufualfttidy and occupations, without being diffurbed bythe noife. Hi; comrades were too much engagedin their own amufement, 40 third; of troublinghis, and would only have laughed at him, if: hisflrange behaviour, ,in an uncommon circumilancc,had not dravyn upon him the general attention.Towards, nine of clock of the evetrirg, abouttwenty of life young people were cffembltd inthat gardenWhich joined to his, where thepropr etor had promifed a plow to his friends.( 37 )It was a j'yrni'nlci, compoTed of difFerent tinds c£hrs-wor^s, to be pili^'ed off4;'unfortunately, hehad forgotten to remove a little boot, containingfeveral pbtihcls of powder; and the fpeclaxorslittle i’;iia^nSd h'dw dear they were ab'out to pr^yfor theh- ’innodetit Mriofity.i We were pfeffinground the little builditig, ^o: which he Had1 fet fire ;and, while we tv’efV admiring the effe®, forfie tm-lucky fp'arks entered the fatal rnagh'zinfe : the ex-plofioti was’dreadfitl! fdme' Idgs and armb bro-bed, two of three fades'mlfcrably btdrned, andfome paces of wail thrown down, were the dif-feen; afm'ec ivitfi a pL-k-a.:. pulhing 'cack. intotfil fife‘alt thofe who' had bdfid through ,his .the niTmber of the wounded. Tt is hdedlefj4 to favhow our edmfad'es were revenged*;"*Bonapac"tehimfel'f, wdthout doubt, would own n’ow that Kejuflly deferved-cur refentment ; but at tr.attime he thought of nothing but his ruined gar¬den: he had no concern in'the imprudence ofhis companions, and he thought it hard to bethe victim of it. Exafperated, perhaps, by thereify (lempnllriudns of a joy of which his heartdid not partake, it is alfo very reafonable tofuppofc that rejoicings in honour of a King;,( I* )might have excited ' the "ilMiumour of a Rtfub-lican : and Bonaparte had; long mapiftfted h'.sfentiments m that refpeth However tnat maybe;, time feemt to have miich ioftened that utr-feeling roughnefs, for he is not lefs celebratedby his moderation towards his enemie , thanby his moft brilliant exproitf.'Bonaparte quitted the fchool of-Brienne at•the end of the year 1785. M. le ChevalierRenault, then Infpeifor General, knew how to*eflimate the merit of that young man, to whichhe did juflice, notwithllariding the hitter coitf-plaints of his mailers, whom h>s hard llubborncharaftef had generally rendered unlriencByto him.There w as, jn that year, a promotion cf fe-verai of the King’s pupils, whom their progrciLsin the fludies, had rendered worthy to be lentto the Military School of Paris.: ih.na.natteof the number, his talents gave him value-in eaeeyes of a gallant officer, who hi.mlelf-owed inspreferment and his fortune to his own merit,and to the inuverfal te'limony.of an irrepvoaciVable:condufl. On his arrival at Paris, he tefti-Had his ioelifittion to ferve in the artillery, ne*caufe this and the engineers were the only corpsin France where interefl and riches cou.d notfo eafily nfurp the place due to merit; He ap¬plied him fell’, with an unwearied zeal, to themathematics, which then became his principal( *9 ){lady, and was foon in a Situation to go tdiro*'the nete'ffary exantinations. He.acquitted hitn-felf with credit; and was then.promoted to therank of an officer in the regiment de la Fere,Ihortiy'before tlic'revoiation. -From the principles which .heFad avowedfo early, it is natural to believe that Bonaparte,at that memorable epoch, did notheutate to de¬clare in favour of independence. Always unal¬terable in his dihike of rayaltyrand devoted tothe'love of glory, his ambition did not negletlfo favourable an opportunity-to fignah'Ze. him-felf, as wje.s pretexted by the revolution. It isin difficult Haations. that a ftrong mind can bellforce itfelf into notice ; in that moment, whentimid indeciiion betrays its own weaknels, itnever hemite* to feparate from the crowd ; totriumph, or tb die with glory, are the dnly al¬ternatives*, and from chei'e nothing can turn itslide. Kc.witiiUancii'r.g the'danger of an earlydeclaratjots in the heginningof the dillurbacces,Bonaparte .hkiained td feign. He declared him-felt in favour of freedom. Alreofl all his brr»-ther-ofSctrs blamed him.for fo prompt a dect-iion; and the fpu'it of party occalioned foonafter the raofl violent altfreitions between himand them, fo that it was foctnnate the lofs oftheir friendfliip did not celt him his hfe.C *0 )One (?av. wnVxing by a rlver-ficle with forneyoubg rfficers. with whom he: genrrally affoci-ated, the difpute van high, and in a moment ofemhufiafm. of which there have been numerousinfbunces in all the wars of opln'iipa* the youngpeople, enr ged, fe:zed Bonaparte, and were onthe point, pf throwing him headlong into thedream, when a momentary reflection made thempertceivg the fltameful inequality of the number.Bonaparte,could- not be forced to retraCt hismode of thinking, the danger whipb he . hadrun altered mot his plan; but, he broke off all•conneCtipn with his companions .till the revolu¬tionary fpiyit, having, made more progrefs. in-induced fome of thofe who ha4 condemned him,to adopt, (Tiortly after, the lame opunoii-The others llftening to nothing1 but theirsttac'hnteut to the*Kihg, arid clefpairing to beable to bid Bis caufe at the head' of troops w ho-had the moll; decidedly revolted againfl him,to©U the defperate refotu ion to faeri^ce theirrank and fortune to the ientiments of honourand brobity, by which they were animated.Their departure, ikil Venkiered more esafper-ated thbfe of their comraaes who were attachedto the oppoflte part^. Frdin' that ‘time theythemfelves elevated the ftri’Jdhfd'ot revolt, ex¬cited the foldiers to 1'edition, and gave publiclyan example ’of the molt violent exetffes—But 1 mull drop the curtain on fuch affitclingfeenes 1It is true Barras. a powerful f-i nd. fecord*ed his perfonat merit, and facilitated his entryinto that circer in which he has equalled themoft celebrated heroes.In 1790, Bonaparte accnmpan'ed to CorficaGeneral Paoli who had made Rune Uay at Paris,During the three years that he remained withhis family, he employed the whole of his timein improving hi felf tlill more in the theory .of military icience ; but the dil'ui bunces which.arofe in that tOand in 1793 after the accufntionbrought againft Paoli by the Convention, deter¬mined h:m to return to h ranee.—He perfuadedhis parents to accompany him, and the familyfettLd near Poul n.— The fiege of that town,then occupied b. the Englilh, having takenplace loon after B naparte was promoted byBarras and the other Cominiflioneu, to the rankof G ncrajof the artillery : It was the re he gavethe fin! proofs of his military genius. Intrudedto dhe& the attack of the redoubts and <.ut_works which formed the defence of the placehis bold and enterprifing g nius devikd a pianwhich one wouid ha^e thought impraaicable,if the courage, of which he fet the example,and knew to well how to communicate to hisa iv, had not taught us ha he was no*, leftcapable to execute than to piojeft.1 he reign o£*&tibefpierre« which imm€uiafelyfollowed ihe reiaking of Toulon, was unfavour¬ably to nobie p.cViohs, and an ignominious deathbecoming the lot of whofoever excited thejealoufy of that monfter, condemned true meritto filence and. retirement. — I imagined Bona¬parte to have been among the number of the'victims, but the event of the t^th Vendemaireundeceived me.—Barras, who direfted, on thatoccufton, the meal urea of the government againftthe-revolted feelions, intruded to him the com¬mand'of the Conventional army, after the resig¬nation of General Gentili, vthofe deafnefs was anobftacle to the'difCharge of the duty;of his pod.The molt complete fuccefs jndified dill morethe panialitymf Barras for the young Bonaparte.Paris, on the point'of being reduced to allies,faw its interior calm redored.—The Conventionwas indebted for it* triuhiph to Bonaparte ; ahdFrance, appeafed as much by his firmneft as byhis courage, owed, to him tfie prefervatioti of"a number of its citizens, whom a fenfelefs furyhad excited to dedroy each’bther.From that period, to the moment when theFrench go vernment formed the projeft of carry¬ing the war into Italy, the public life of Bona¬parte offers nothing very interelting; but theunfavourable aufpices under Which he was in¬truded with the totlduft of that dangerous ex¬pedition, contributed not a little to heightenhi* reputation.( 23 )The ferocious Robefpierre had facrificed tohis fury the heft; generals of France s Ciriineana Houchard, both well known by their greatfuccefles, had.periflitcion a i'caff Id ; Dnmourierhad betrayed his trult, and Pichegru, the con¬queror of Holland, b*d been recalled; whenBonaparte, tlill very young* was chofen to re¬trieve fo many dii'allers.On the eve of engaging the bell troops andthe mod: experienced generals of Europe, andin a country where nature prefents on everyfide obflacles which Hannibal alope had beenable to ovescome. thy French troops couldhave little confidence in the condu& of a generalonly 26 years old ; unprovided, as they were,of magazines, inexperienced till now in the artof war, and in want of ch>aths, the fpldiers didrot feem encouraged by the appearance of theirne chief. His exterior,inot. very prepofltffing,gave occafion to many of their jokes.;Bona parte, far from being alarmed by thefeobstacle;, did not feem at ail affeded by them.Peri.uaded.that the attachment of foldrers can¬not be f rqen., 'ne fought the only true means ofrendering himfelf worthy of their confidence.The prefling wants of his troops became thefirfl ctjeft of fib attention ; he employed him¬felf ur.ccafiBgly to fpprly them, and, in a littletime, his unremitting aftivity had provided forevery thing.»( 54 )The army being now in a condition to acl .offVnfivelv the campaign was hardly open * henthe fir'l tfftys of that ill-organig d army weremarked by very important fuccefi'.s.*From this time I cannot follow the hero,#a pen bolder than mine is deftined to recordfc£ls which pofterity will hardly be able tocredit*Bonaparte is all a&ivity, and every-wherethe fame, whether y''n behold him fighting,liegociating or puniffiing; it is always an affairof a moment, of a word.— N ver any hefitation,he cuta the gordian knot which he cannotuntie.^*+++++++4-+++-»■->-♦■ 4+-M- '!\J A44++44.+44-*-4-»’+44-4+++4-JPAi-KlUK: T JOHVST®:?,—JAJN7KH.-—0