THELIFE AND TRANSACTIONSorMRS. JANE SHOREConcubine to -King Edward IVth.ADVENTURE OFALLAN BARCLAY,A Private Soldier in the -   Regiment.“LOVE TORTURE.\>. ■■. HI!.If"/! r.i "5>'’ V. C*,VAJ U / }' •'A.fJ/.i. I'.'l k\ ,THISLIFE AND TRANSACTIONSOPMRS. JANE SHORE.Mrs. Jane Shore was daughter to Mr. Thomas Win-i stead, a citizen of good repute, who lived in Cheapside,; by trade a mercer. She being the only child of her| parents, was brought up with all the care and tendernessI imaginable, not wanting any education that was properfor her ; and her natural temper, which was very airy,i being joined to her education, and that degree of pride,which, as it is natural, some make necessary for thefemale sex, helped to set her off to the best advantage.Fine feathers always make fine birds, and if the birds are' fine without them, doubtless they make them doubly so.This lovely woman was the delight of her father, whoclothed her richly, adorning her with jewels ; and, histrade lying among the court ladies, he often carried herwith him to shew her the pastimes which were madefrequently there, to divert the queen, &c. which gaveher an early longing after a greater gentility than shehad ever yet attained to, or her city breeding was fit toproduce.When she grew to the age of fifteen, her competentstock of beauty and good carriage, caused many to fallin love with her, and some great lords fixed their eyesupon her, to get her for a mistress, which her fatherperceiving, sent her to his sister at Northampton, whereshe remained about a year, till he supposed the inquiryafter her was over, and that she might return withoutany hazard of being any further tempted to lewdness :yet she was no sooner returned, than a plot was laidone night to have her carried away by Lord Hastings,who, after the death of King Edward, took her for nisconcubine, as will appear in the close of this history.But, (lie in ait! hi kill bribed with gold to get her abroad,repenting of such treachery to her master, gave timelynotice, and so prevented it.Her father perceiving, that unless he took somespeedy course, her great stock of beauty would be herruin, resolved to marry her, so that having surrenderedher virginity, and being in the arms of an husband, thosethat sought to crop her virgin ros“, would not regardher, but give over their pursuits.And, among those that courted, <md earnestly soughther in way of marriage, was one Matthew Shore, arich goldsmith in Lombard-street, whom her fatheipitched upon as a fit husband : and acquainted his faildaughter with his intention to marry her to him, butshe appeared very averse to it, alleging sometimes dis¬proportion of years, he being above thirty ; at othertimes, his being disfigured with the small pox, and manyother exceptions she made. However, her father’spositive commands, and the rich presents her lover madeher, won her consent, or seemingly she yielded to thematch, and so married they were in great pomp ; manyof the court, as well as the city, being invited to thewedding, which was kept with great feasting, manydays.The wedding being over, and the bridegroom havingeiyoyed his charming bride, grew exceedingly fond ofher, even to dottage, which sickened and palled her loveards; and he perceiving it, strove to wind himselfho into her affections ; and to this end he clothedher very richly, and adorned her with jewels, denyingher nothing she desired, or that he 1 bought would tendto her satisfaction or delight.It was not long before Lord Hastings heard the un¬welcome tidinos, that his fairest Jane was married;which, however, did not make him give over his pur-pose of enjoying her fair body ; so that often' he resortedto see her, treating her at home, and her husbandabroad; often inviting them both to court; and tookbis opportunities to pour out many amorous discourses.5endeavouring by all means to make her defiie the mar.,riage-bed. And one time, intending to try his utmostefforts, he threw her on a bed when they were alone ;! Out she got from him, and ran to her husband, telling: him plainly how rude Lord Hastings had been : whichangering Shore, he modestly rebuked him, and forbadehim his house, which made him go away in great heat,but resolving to be revenged,i This Lord, being Chamberlain to King Edward IV.' having frequently his ear; and, finding he was muchinclined to fine women, though he was married to LadyElizabeth Grey, took an opportunity to tell him of JaneShore’s beauty, extolling her wit above her features,which made the King hearken to this new adventure,and he resolved to go to Shore’s shop in disguise to seeher.The King, whose thoughts still ran on his intendedMistress, delayed not long to pay her a visit; and in1 order to it, attired himself like a merchant, and with-! drew privately from court, being only attended by hispage : and coming into Shore’s shop, then the richest in3 all Lombard-street, he found the good man employed inhis business ; and, waiting till he wms a little at leisure,he desired to see some plate, which being shewn him,he, under pretence of carrying it beyond seas, soonagreed for a considerable quantity: but yet no wife ap¬peared, which made him delay the time with discourse.,of what was then transacting in England and placetabroad, where he said he had travelled.This delighted Shore mightily, so that he ordered hisman to fetch up a bottle of wine, and they drank merrily,(he good man beginning w7ith a health to the king, which(he King pledged him in. So when some other healthshad passed, the King asked, if there was not a mistressto so fair a house ? otherwise, he could help him to awife, rich, young, and beautiful.For this offer Shore thanked him, but told him, !.ewas already married to such a one as he described, whomhe loved entirely. This discourse made the king more6i feairous to see her ere he departed, and asked if he couldnot have a sight of her. Shore, little thinking what' vas intended for his ruin, and proud of his wife’s beauty,: oon yielded to his request, and ordered her to be calleddown, who came attired in a sky-coloured morninggown, flowered witlx gold, embroidered with pearls andspangles, her head attired with curious lace, under whichher hair flowed wantonly : and her blushes made herappear still more beautiful.The King no sooner saw her, but he stepped fortliand saluted her coral lips, impressing on them manvwalmy kisses. Then she, by her husband’s desire satdown, and the king drank to her, she pledged him, andpassed it to her husband. Then mnch discourse ensued,m which she appeared so witty, that the King resolvedto have her at any rate, and so presented her with somecurious things. He paid for his plate, which the goodman would have sent home, but he refused it, ordering)us page to carry it; and with many kisses, he tookleave of the charming fair one for that time.The king had no sooner departed, but Jane asked herhusband who that gentleman was, that had bean soliberal to her ? he told her, he said lie was a merchant^hut he knew him not. Ah ! said she, I rather takehim for some Lord in disguise ; therefore dear husband,if he should come again, tell him that I am sick, or anyhing ycu can feign to disappoint him.Mr Shore was greatly pleased at her conduct, andmore discourse had passed, but people coining into theshop about business, she retired.The King soon arrived at court, where he had beenmissed by his nobles, soon changed his apparel, and cameamongst them with a very cheerful countenance ; andthough others were ignorant, Hastings well perceivedwhere he had been, and the satisfaction he had received ;and no sooner were they in private, but the King said,well Hastings, thou hast very good judgment in tinewomen : 1 have seen Shore’s wite, and she excels thej i isrs you gave her ; l like her well, and must enjoy7 ■I her, but how must I bring it about ? To court h^r ijij her husband’s presence, as a private person, I shall be(served as you was ; and to do it as a King, will looktoo low for jne,—I will not force her from his arms, forj that would cause a murmuring among my subjects, whoj would fear the like by their wives and daughters ; butI I must have her, and with her own consent.Hastings smiling, immediately said, take no care, foi, this shall be easy to your Majesty : there is one MrsBlague, your lace-woman, has a house near Shore’s,[ and is very intimate with his wife. This woman is very| fond of money, to such a degree, that money wouldj make her do any thing. Her will I engage to do thismatter, and trust me, she will bring it to pass to yoursatisfaction. The King liked this device, and it wasagreed that he should see her at this Mrs Blague’s, andJia-ve freedom to court her, but she should not know thattie was the king, till he thought proper to have it dis¬covered.Lord Hastings was not idle in promoting his master’snappiness, but, with gifts and large promises, soon madethe lace-woman pliable, so that many meetings weremade at her house, the King coming in disguise as berfriend ; and, though Mrs Blague often left them alone,and the King courted her with all his rhetoric, yet sheappeared averse to his love, and often blamed him sharplyfor persuading her to defile her husband’s bed ; and thenshe would chide Mrs. Blague for suffering such a rudeman to come to her house, telling her the design he hadon her chastity ; she seemed very surprised at it, butintreated her to be at ease, for she would not suffer himto come there any more.This pacified her, but the plot was still deeper laidfor her ruin, and at Christmas time she got leave ofShore for his wife to accompany her to the Court, tothe ball there, to which he consented with somewillingness. And soon after she was introduced, a manof very comely port entered, with a mask on ; and Mrs.Shore heard the ladies whisper, ‘ That's the King,8who looking round through his mask, fixed his eyeupon her, and immediately stepping to her seat, tooher out to dance along with him. At this she blushedbut not to be unmannerly, she complied ; and the danobeing ended, he took her to a single light, and pullin'off his mask to salute her, she perceived it was the samiman whom she had seen at her own shop, and at MrsBlague’s house; and putting a letter into her hand heretired. She then coming to Mrs Blague, desired trgo home ; to this she consented, and then read the let¬ter, which was to this purpose:My Lovely Jane,‘ Your beauty has enthralled my heart.< ’Tis a King sues ; you will be kind to him, and by a line tellhim so to his comfort.’When she read the letter, she left Mrs Blague ab¬ruptly, judging that she had a hand in the matter.All this night the fair Jane was restless: her hus¬band enquired the cause, but could not learn it. Assoon as she got up, she went to Mrs Blague, to consultwhat she must do in this strait, well knowing the King’shumour.Mrs Blague, seeing her thus pensive, said, ‘ Come,my dear, you must not be coy, nor deny the King’s re¬quest. You will glitter so near a throne, and enjoy agallant bed-fellow. 'I find he is resolved to have youfor a mistress, and therefore it is best for yen willinglyto submit to him.At this discourse she trembled, yet considering, fromthe many attempts her beauty had caused, that it wasnot made to be enjoyed by one, in a fatal hour she con¬sented ; and instead of writing an answer to the King’s'etter, it was agreed that that very night she shouldtake her apparel, and put herself into the hands of theKing. This being concluded, Mrs Blague sent theKing notice, who sent a chariot for them ; and in themean time her clothes were conveyed away to MrsBlague’s. However, she supped with her husband,9.vhen cm a sudden somebody came on a feigned errand,and said, lier mother was taken ill, and desired to speak, with her. He would have gone with her, but she putit off; and giving him the last kiss he ever was to re¬ceive from her, she left him, and coming where thechariot stood ready, she and Mrs Blague got into iti and were conveyed to the King’s secret apartment,where they found him in his closet. He welcomedthem, but it being late, Mrs Blague departed, and they; went to bed.Mr Shore sitting up late, and his wife not returning,i was very much troubled, and went to his mother-in-law’s, but they had not seen her, nor was her motherill, so that her absence troubled the whole family. The; next day was spent in seeking for her amongst her rela¬tions and friends, but found her not. Mrs Blague pro»tested she had not seen her, and dropped some dis-nembling tears, so that her husband was almost distract¬ed, and at last concluded, that she was taken away bysome courtier; and, in three days after, a lady informedthem that she was with the King. This added more■ to their grief; they knew not what course to take ; andthey knew if they went to cross the King it would betheir ruin.They made inquiry, indeed, if it was her voluntaryact, and finding it was, and she quite unwilling to leaveher new lover, they left all hope of recovering her, a*that Mr Shore growing melancholy, sold off all he hao,and went abroad; but having spent his fortune, he re¬turned in a poor condition, and practised clipping andfiling gold coin to maintain himself; for which he suf¬fered death in the latter end of K. Henry VIII.’s reign.Jane Shore having rendered up her chastity to theKing, pleased with the glittering ot a court, and endear¬ed by a monarch’s love, was admired by the vulgar, to¬wards whom she behaved in a most courteous manner.Her power was so groat with the King, that whenI the courtiers durst not intercede for the poor and miser-» sble that lay under his displeasure, she, with her wit10would so abate his anger, that she saved the lives overy many, both poor and rich. And though she couldin a manner do all with him, yet it was never knownshe used her influence to the prejudice of any. Andboth in London, and the progresses she made in thecountry, she would cause poor people to be sought for,and relieve their necessities, inducing and persuadingothers, who expected any good offices from the Kingby her means, to do the same, never selling her favours ;and by her ready wit she so baffled the court ladies, whoenvied her aspiring, that they found themselves unableto repartee. And though the King had another mis¬tress before her, namely Lady Bessy, yet he preferredour heroine much above her, and would often say, Ihave two mistresses, of quite different tempers, one themost religious, and the other the merriest in England:and indeed she was had in great favour all the reign ofthe King, having crowds of petitioners waiting at herchamber door, or at the chariot side, when she was toride abroad, whose suits, to the utmost of her power,she preferred. As for Mrs Blague, who least deservedof her, she procured of the King a stately house andmanor, worth £280 a year. The Romish priests muckspited her, because she sheltered many from their rageand fury, after they had burned ;J ohn Huss for anheretic.4s no worldly pomp nor greatness is of long continu¬ance, so now her glory was ended, and her days of in¬expressible misery began ; for, the King dying at West¬minster, in the fortieth year of his reign, no sooner washe buried in the chapel of his own founding, at Windsor,but Crook-backed Richard, his brother, who murderedHenry VI. and Prince Henry his son, aspiring to thethron*, though Edward had left two sons behind him,viz. Edward and Richard, and several daughters, alllawfully begotten with the Queen, he quarrelled withLord Hastings, (who, after the death of the King, hadtaken Jane Shore for his concubine, as now free) be¬cause he would not assist him in his wicked project, ofilnakiiig away with his two nephews, whom lie alter-ivards caused to be murdered in the Tower, alledgiug;hat the Queen and Shore’s wife had bewitched him,Shewing his withered arm, which all knew had been sv:'rom his cradle ; and, that lord thinking to excuse them,i;aid, f if they had done so, they ought to be punished.’Richard furiously replied, ‘ Thou traitor, dost thouServe me with ifs ? I say, it is a trutli veiy well knownto thee, that they have done so, and that I will makegood on thy body ; therefore I anest thee, Lord Hast-s, for high treason.’ And, soon after, lie caused hisEtead to be cut off in the Tower.| Jane Shore had no sooner notice of the death of LordIHastings, her paramour, but she perceived a storm wasMclllmg on her own head, therefore she thought it necesjsary to provide in time, and so she carried her jewels toiher old confident, Mrs Blague, entreating her to concealthem for her; but she, like a faithless woman, whenJane came and asked for them, not only denied them,I but when, in the greatest need, she came to crave almsiof her, she thrust her out of doors, threatening to haveher whipped for her impudence.Bichard, by means aforesaid, having got to the(clown, and to make himself seem fair by others sins,I though he was a monster by nature, publicly declaringi his mother to be a whore, his brother and his children| to be bastards 5 caused his queen to be poisoned, andwould have wedded his niece. He ordered our JaneShore to be apprehended, stripped of all she had, and dopenance, by several times walking in a white sheet, andthen walk bare-footed and bare-headed in her shift be¬fore the procession, with a cross and wax taper in hernand, through Cheapside, which she did, looking solovely in her blushes, that many a one pitied her ; healso stripped all her friends and relations of whateverthey had, pretending they had got it all by her meansfrom the Crown in King Edward’s reign; which, withthe disgrace their only daughter was fallen into, causeuher parent’s death.Richard, not content with this, put out a severe pclamation to this effect: That on the pain of deathconfiscation of goods, no one should harbour her in tl;houses, nor relieve her with food or raiment. So tilshe went wandering up and down to find her food upthe bushes, and on the dunghills, where some frierhe had raised would throw bones with more meat thordinary, and crusts of stale bread, in the places winshe haunted. A baker, who had been condemneddie for a riot in King Edward’s reign, and saved by hmeans, in gratitude for her kindness, would trundlepenny loaf after her; which she thankfully receive!and blessed him with tears in her eyes ; but some rnalcious neighbour informing against hirn, he was taken uand hanged for disobeying King Richard’s proclamatio:which so terrified others, that they durst not relieve hewith any thing; so that, in miserable rags, almosnaked, she went about a most shocking spectaclewringing her hands, and bemoaning her unhappy fate.Thus she continued till the battle of Bosworth-fieldwhere Richard was slain by Henry, Earl of Richmond,who succeeded him by the name of Henry the VII., irwhich reign she hoped for better days; but fortune raised her another adversary, for he married Elizabetheldest dausrhter of Edward IV. and King EdwardQueen, who mortally hated her, then bearing a greatsway, another proclamation was issued to the same ef¬fect : and so she wandered up and down, in as poor andmiserable a condition as before, till growing old, shefinished her life in a ditch, which was from thence calleuShore’s Ditch, adjoining Bishopsgate-street.Thus you may see the rise and fall of this once state-y, and then unhappy womanation I shall conclude.with whose dying JamenTHE DYING LAMENTATIONOFMRS JANE SHORE. 4 Good People,Though, by the rigour of the law you are forbiddento give me any relief, yet you may pity my unhappystate, for the Scripture saith. That to the miserable pity'ihould be shewn. I am now putting a period to a mis¬erable life ; a life that I have been long weary of. Norwould I desire to live in the splendour, pomp, and gloryof Edward’s court. No, I am happier now on thedung-hill, than ever I was in his arms. For, oh ! itwas an adulterous bed indeed. Oh wretch ! that KingEdward! that ever I was betrayed by him ! Whattloods of sorrow have my sins occasioned ? Oh ! learnfrom me good people, to beware of vain delights ; thoughthey promise fair, they leave bitter stings behind them.Alas ! you know my punishment is grievous in thisworld, and so it is, for I have endured a thousand deathsm one ; but now, my dying moments are come, I re-oice. Sincere repentance has secured my happinessabove. But O, where repentance is not given, whatseas of torment rack the soul ! O happy dung-hill, howdo I embrace thee ! From thee my pardoned soul shallsoar to heaven, though here I leave this filthy carcase.0 that the name of Shore may be an antidote, tostop the poisonous and foul contagion of raging lust forever./ALLAN BARCLAYAmong those soldiers who survived the battle oWaterloo, was a private belonging to the — regimentof foot, of the name of Allan Barclay. He wajs a nativeof Ayr, and had received an education calculated for ahigher rank in life than the one he held. His parents,indeed, were respectable burghers of that respectabletown ; and Allan, with some little caution and persever-ance, might have succeeded them in their quiet and easypath, had not a restless and rambling turn of mind madehim dissatisfied with all around—occasioned endless dis¬cords at home—and brought him into a thousand pettyscrapes, until at last, in a youthful frolic or passion, heenlisted into the regiment above-mentioned, and crossedthe British channel along with the troops, before hisparents were apprized of the circumstance.Although the battle of Waterloo struck a death-blowto the hopes of the Bonapartists, it was judged neces¬sary to the peace of France, that the victorious armiesshould be quartered throughout the kingdom until itsagitation should subside: and those soldiers, therefore,vvlio had survived the conflict, had not the satisfactionof witnessing, in their own country*, the bufst of en¬thusiasm that followed the news of their success, or ofreturning home while home rung with their deeds.Allan Barclay was one of the few who had escaped thebattle unhurt, and it Was his fate to be billeted in asmall cottage at a considerable distance from Palis.The only inmates of the cottage were an elderly womanand her daughter. Dame Clerville, the name of thewoman, was the widow of one who had been killedwhile serving Bonaparte about the commenceraeut of his'15i career ; and two sons had shaved a fate somewhat simi¬lar—the elder having been killed in Spain, and theI younger having been taken prisoner, with many others[in the expedition to Moscow, and thence conveyed tothe wilds of Siberia, to labour there, with little hope ofrelease. The daughter, Mariette, therefore, was allthat remained to comfort the widowed mother.At the time Barclay took up his residence in thehouse of the widow, Mariette was just beginning toi open into a beautiful and interesting girl. Her age wasonly thirteen, although her stature, and sometimes thelook of her eye, seemed to belong to maturer years.| She had generally, however, the appearance of the girl;and it was only occasionally, when her spirits were ex-j | cited, that the spectator could look upon her in any! other light. When our soldier first introduced himselfi'ie had every reason to believe that he was an unwelcomeand disagreeable intruder. The circumstances, that hebelonged to the enemy under which a husband and a- son—a father and a brother—had suffered, and that,independent of this, he would be a burden upon themj Tor several weeks, were sufficient to sour the kindestJ hearts, and render his reception cold and repulsive. But(he conducted himself with such affability and good grace,that the widow and her daughter soon began to hold himf in esteem—to love his company—and at length to findthat he added much to their social enjoyment. So soon,indeed, did he gain their affections, that at the expira-i tion of the billet, when he found that thenceforth hemust provide other quarters from his daily pay, he wasprevailed upon to continue his abode in the cottage, inthe character of a lodger.There was at the time nothing to employ the Britishsoldiery in France ; and Allan, therefore, became quitedomesticated in the cottage. When the weather per-'mitted, he most commonly worked during the day in alittle plot of ground which surrounded and belonged tothe house ; and in the evening he employed himself int teaching young Mariette the English language, and inI16talking of his native country, to whose blue mountainhis mind was ever anon reverting.—And time passethus delightfully on, and every day linked him clos<and closer, with the little family. The affectionate olwoman looked upon him as filling up the place of hiyoungest and dearest son; and Mariette, in her girlieenthusiasm loved him better than a brother.But the life of a soldier is, of all others, the moshangeable ; and, although not unexpectedly, the ordeicame abruptly, that he must leave the gay fields <France, and embark for his native land. Anxious ahe was to see the friends and the scenes to which bhad been so long a stranger, it was not without bittefeelings that he left the cottage where he had spent twyears of quiet enjoyment. Now did tire widow and thdaughter feel his departure less severely. It was tthem like another family bereavement. The old womahung upon his neck and sobbed, while Mariette stoolike a beautiful statue, gazing stedfastly at him througeyes from which the big tears were incessantly trickling—“ You have been," cried the afflicted widow, “third son to me—you have filled the place of Julian—you have charmed away my bereavements; and musyou leave me too ? Oh it brings all my sorrows baciupon me. There is no hope that you shall return—sa;not there is hope, as my husband and sons did. I havlearned well that delusion;—I know you will never return—but in the country to which you may go, ma;the God of good bless you !—and this will be my firsprayer in the morning, and my last in the evening.’Mariette said not a word ; and the soldier, who wishe*to throw a lightness over the scene, and to divert lh'pocr girl from the seeming intensity of her thoughtstook her familiarly by the hand, with the intention oaddressing her playfully. But suddenly his spiiits for¬sook him ;—there was a passion in her posture that aonce overcame him; and this was, perhaps, the firstime in which he beheld her in any other light than thaiof a young and artless girl. “ Mariette,” he said, wit!17some hesitation,—“ Marietta you Iiave learned theEnglish language a thought hung over him which hei could not articulate : and all the harassments of a pro-| tracted parting might have been experienced, had not ai band of his comrades arrived to hurry him away. Ab¬ruptly, and holding Ids hands over his eyes, he left thehousT?; and the noise of many voices dying gradually: away, told the cottagers that he was gone for ever.It was long before the grief of the widow and the! daughter ceased to be violent. Days passed on—weeks—months,—and every day called up a remembranceafflicting as it was regular. The feelings of Mariette,I however, assumed a loftier character than grief. Shewas of that age when the mind is alive to all the ro¬mance of life—she had seen nothing and was seeingnothing of the world—and had imbibed an attachmentfor the British soldier, which eve* y day strengthenedmore and more. In a little sumn er house that Allanhad erected in the garden, she was constantly lingering,and indulging in the most Eutopan reveries. There■: she first formed the wild project of going to Britain, fori it appeared to her as an enchanted hind, and she thought' if she were only there, and only sav Barclay once more,! she would be happy. “ I have learned the English11 language were his last words,” she would say—“ whatavails it but for las sake ? Perha's he remembers meonly as the little girl who listened * a his stories and hisinstructions, while he loves anothei in his own country.This may not be ;—I shall never i aw whether or not,—but were it not to leave my mob er lonely and deso¬late, I would go to England, and f rarch him out, andsee what he thinks of me now.Nearly two years passed on, an! Mariette still in*dulged the prospect of visiting England, but was stillchecked by the thought of leaving her mother,—when; one afternoon a stranger, in sorry h (biliments, and witha body emaciated seemingly by fa'.igue, called at the; j ottage, and begged some little refreshment. He wasntindly shown a seat at the fireside, and a little roundh18table, with some simple refreshment, was placed beforehim. The viands, however, which he lifted to hi*mouth, he seemed to swallow with difficulty; and histrembling hands and pale face drew on him the eyes ofboth mother and daughter; when, after a short andhurried survey, suddenly the mother shrieked, and flewto the arms of her beloved and long exiled son. A markupon his hand, which he had received when he was achild, first told the mother who her guest was. He hadbeen endeavouring to disguise himself, to enjoy morsvividly the home of his childhood. After the first con¬gratulations were over, he told them of his sufferings inSiberia, where as Thomson beautifully says,nought aroundStrikes the sad eye but deserts lost in snow,And heavy loaded groves, and solid floods,That stretch athwart the solitary vastTheir icy horrors to the frozen main ;And cheerless towns far distant, never bles&’dSave when its annual course the caravanBends to the golden coast of rich CathayWith news of human kind how he had escaped—and how he travelled on footthrough a thousand of dangers and difficulties, whichhis former hardships had learned him to brave, and thepleasure that he now felt, had fully atoned for.Mariette congratulated herself with no ordinary feelings on the arrival of her brother. She felt relievednow, and fully at liberty to undertake the journey whichshe had long meditated. A day or two passed in mak¬ing arrangements for her departure, which she deter¬mined should be privately ; for she well knew, that toconsult her mother or brother would be to throw in herway an effectual barrier. To keep their minds at ease,however, she drew out a short letter intimating thatshe had left them on a particular errand, which sh*durst not disclose, and that she would return in a fewweeks. A small purse of money which was her own,and a small bundle of clothes, which she had previouslyhid under a tree, at some distance from the cottage19was all that ghe consideied necessary for her journey:—•and on a fine April morning she left the home of herfathers, unobserved and unsuspected. A lingering lookat her mother who lay still asleep, and whom she Wouldfain have kissed awake, to beseech a blessing—andanother look at her beloved' cottage, as she turned thelast winding of the road which hid it, perhaps for ever,from her view, were the only swerves which her fortitude made in her bold and dangerous undertakingfo trace out her progress to England, and latterly toScotland, in search of the regiment to which Barclaybelonged—interesting as it might be—would exceed theintended limits of this story.It was in Glasgow, in the middle of summer, thathe first came in contact with the regiment. It hadbeen long expected to enter that city, for the first timesince the termination cf the wrar; and the numerousrelations and acquaintances of those belonging to it (forthough professedly an Argyleshire regiment, the -1— waschiefly composed of natives of Glasgow) had been hourly,like Mariette, looking for its arrival. Towards the af¬ternoon of a delightful summer day, the drums soundingthrough that narrow street in the Gorbals which leadsup to the old bridge, first announced its approach ; andMariette stood, with many others, waiting, with infin¬ite anxiety, for its appearance. The heavy drum wasmomently sounding louder and louder, and was heardeven amidst the cheers which a warm hearted peoplebestowed upon a native and favourite regiment. Everypeal vibrated on the heart of Mariette ; and as theblackening crowd wrifich preceded the soldiers drew on,her fears and her hopes increased. Her knees shookviolently, her lips turned pale and tremulous, and heibright eyes seemed to herself to have lost their power ofvision. The sudden summons, however, of a stoutheart,—and the determination of screening herself in themeantime, should he be there—recovered her greatly,when the regiment advanced. Still her gave was eagerand frightful as battaljon after battalion' passed before20her. At length her eyes fell full upon the object ofJieir search, whose appearance was too deeply rootedin her mind to escape them. She saw him merely, andbut for a moment. Her vision again lost its power ;and before sire recovered, the regiment and the crowdwere far advanced before her. With a palpitating heartshe followed it; and when it had entered the barrackgates, and the last beat of the drum and huzza of thecrowd were over, she ventured forward, and with atimid eye, looked along the splended area of the Glas¬gow infantry barracks. It was some time before sheobserved Allan, who was standing at the further ex¬tremity. A chilly damp came over her, as she markedthat he was conversing with a young woman. All thedoubts and fears, that at times had crossed her mind,of Barclay being engaged, were by this awakened. Sheleaned herself against the gate ; nor durst she for sometime confirm by another glance, what she had seen, andwhen at length she ventured to lift her eyes, he wasgone ! She now felt, for the first time, her fortitudewaver, and hurrying into a house of entertainment op¬posite the barracks, asked for a small apartment, whichshe had no sooner entered than she flung herself upona chair and wept bitterly. The landlady of the housedid not leave her long to this indulgence, but presentlystanding before her, startled her by enquiring what herpleasure was. “ Any thing,” was the poor girl’s reply,“ any refreshment you have.” With a tedious and un¬listened to proem, the landlady handed in a slight re¬fection, and left the girl again to herself.A much different company took up the attention ofthe loquacious hostess. It was four or five of the soldierswho were enjoying themselves in an apartment immediately adjoining that of Mariette’s. A slight woodetpartition divided the rooms ; and it was impossible—in¬terested even as Mariette was in her own thoughts—notto hear the conversation that passed. One voice immedi¬ately awakened her attention—a voice as familiar andas endeared to her as her mother’s—the voice of Allan. She glistened now in fearful trepidation, andoke and laugh went round, she, in the delusion| of her own grief, wondered he could be so light hearted,—“ a bumper, my boys/’ she heard one cry, “ to theI Glasgow lasses! They look blyther and kinder thanI ever. What say you Barclay ? Yon must pledge itdespite of all French trumpery I”—“ My second bum¬per it will be,” she heard her beloved Barclay answer,“ but you know, Tom, I must first pay my orison to' the ruling divinity.” “ Pooh ! that everlasting Mari¬etta again ! I wish you had her in your arms and bedone with her.”—“ A toast of that,” cried Barclay—“ its your own dear Tom, you cannot object to it.”1 Object!—I'd drink the Devil were the whisky good,i Hurra, my lads, hurra !”It would be difficult to describe the sensations which: Mariette felt on hearing these words. There was al sudden brightening up of her countenance, but moreI seemingly the effect of alarm than satisfaction. Every| thought which she had nourished so long and so ardently,i| rushed in upon her, and her heart throbbed as if it would! have burst its boundaries. “ He remembers me yet,”!| she said—“ but is it as of one who would relieve the3 tedium of a wife ? If it be so,” added she, raising her-Iself, “ he shall not know what I have suffered for him ;i and I shall return to my own country, this moment,: though my heart should break by. the way.” Thisburst of a noble minded girl was quickly succeeded by,a delightful beam of hope, which had been buried in the: iconflict of less pleasant passions. “ He may not belUiaqied, -he cannot be,—she may have been a relationI saw—a sister ;—it is only so,”—and she rung for thelandlady. “ Is there,” she asked hesitatingly, “ anI Allan Barclay in your house ?” “Not that I knowof,” was the essence of the landlady’s answer. “ Heis a soldier,” said Mariette. “ You wish a soldier ?”returned the landlady, smirkingly. Mariette, withoutresenting the insult, stminbnea up her spirits and toldthe landlady that she wished one of the name of Barclay,i Barclay! as the i22in the adeeming room, to speak with her. [The d*lady dofirered her errand Wuntly enough, and then he,after a hundred hideous jokes had been poured upon himby his comrades, calmly entered the apartment whereMariette was standing. On seebg her, all otherthoughts were lost in surprise, but soon love was trium¬phant ; and the meeting of two affectionate hearts—long separated without hope—formed a scene of inde¬scribable emotion. In the enthusiasm of their interviewmuch was told. He was not married;—he too hadsuffered hardships of a peculiar nature, although not asin her case, for the object of his attachment;—a lifewas still before him to repay her wonderful affectionand it is gratifying to add, that—soon freed from hislong and hard served soldiership—he returned with hisbeautiful wife, to the pleasant fields of France, and themore pleasant cottage of Dame Clerville.LOVE AND TORTURE.At Glasgow in Scotland, a young gentleman beingpassionately in love with a young lady of superior rankand fortune, and having won her affections, the youngcouple found themselves under a necessity to concealtheir mutual inclinations, from a dread of the violenttemper of the lady’s father, who aimed at nothing lessthan a noble alliance for his daughterUnder these circumstances, the imprudent girl per¬mitted her lover to make her private nocturnal visits,the fruit of which was the loss of her honour ; and hav¬ing once yielded to his guilty solicitations, she afterwardsmade no scruple to let him pass the greatest part of thenight in her chamber. This intrigue had lasted somemonths, and was conducted with so much care and cir¬cumspection, that even the servants of the house had nasuspicion of such an affair. But some neighbours passingby the house one night, saw the young man come o«t23and retire with great precaution : this discovexy, how¬ever, only brought the young lady’s virtue in question,and as they were not interested in that, they wisely keptthe secret.Some time after, the same house was found to bestript of the plate and other valuable effects to a con¬siderable amount; the servants discovered the robberywhen they awoke in the morning; but not the leastconjecture could be made who committed the robbery.The neighbours then thought it their duty to clear them¬selves from all suspicions, and with this view they madea declaration before a magistrate, of what they had seen.Appearances were so strong against the youth, that themagistrate did not hesitate, but immediately had himarrested and charged with the fact. He disowned thecrime with indignation; but a generous concern for thehonour of his mistress would not permit him to confessthe true motive of his coming out of her house in thedead of the night: embarrassed by the delicacy of hissituation, he gave such a confused and improbable ac¬count of himself, that his manner of defending himselfseemed to amount nearly to a conviction ; however, aslie still maintained that he was innocent, and the evi¬dence of his accusers was not sufficient to prove himguilty, the judges ordered the torture.In Scotland the torture was not so terrible as in someother countries, but it was sufficient to answer the pur¬pose of extorting truth or falsehood from the unhappyvictims whose strength or resolution was not equal to itstorments. It consisted in making them swallow a cer¬tain quantity of water, which done, they extended themon the floor of the prison, and placed a plank upon thestomach, on which the executioner stood, and pressedthe poor wretch till he regorged the water with extremeviolence : this cruel punishment was repeated till theparty confessed the er^e of which he was accused.The rumour of this sentence reached the ears of hismistress ; affection and gratitude made her determine tasave the life- of the generous man, at the expense of24publishing her own dishonour: she threw herself at thefeet of the judges, confessed the intrigue, and added,that it was impossible he could be the criminal, becauseshe had always let him in and out of the house herself.This declaration being considered by the judge as a lovestratagem, it produced no effect, and the unfortunateyouth, not able to endure the pain of the torture, con¬fessed the robbery, and required as a particular favour,that the judges would not delay his death; but fortunatelyfor him, this request was not complied with, it being thecustom in those days to postpone the execution of crimi¬nals to stated days, that the number might strike moreterror, and serve as a more forcible example to the spec¬tators.In the interval, the hand of Providence wrought hisdeliverance.—Two highwaymen were condemned forreal crimes, and being under sentence of death, werethrown into the same dungeon. Here they learned thecause of his deplorable situation, and having no hopes oflife themselves, they resolved not to suffer an innocentman to die for a crime they had committed. Withoutloss of time, therefore,' they imparted to the judges suchevident proofs of their having committed the robbery,that the youth was set at liberty; and the judges,struck with their own error, which shewed the crueltyand absurdity of the torture, applied to the legislature,and obtained a legal abolition of this custom for ever;and, as a recompense to the lover, they used all theirinterest with the lady’s father, who seeing himself sopowerfully solicited, granted his consent, and they werehappily united.