NEW AND IMPROVED SERIES.READING FORWINTER EVENINGSA SELECTION OFAMUSING AND INSTRUCTIVESTORIES.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1850.eg' o- gH[gy<T'.8SISSS 4ST8J;8omrav:i na1CONTENTS.avirouaTgiii cratiThe History and Adventures of a Cat,   1Perseverance against Fortune,      7A Friend in Need, 17The Birth-day Gift,   23{**; . v;40READING EOR WINTER EVENINGS.THE HISTORY AND ADVENTURES OP A CAT.Grimalkin, Mrs. Petlove’s favourite cat, died some daysago of shortness of breath, proceeding partly from old age,and partly from fat. As she felt her end approaching, shecalled her children to her, and spoke as follows:—“Before I leave this world, I shall relate to you the princi¬pal events of my life, as the variety of scenes I have gonethrough may afford you some instruction for avoiding thosedangers to which our species are particularly exposed.“ I was born at a farm-house in a village some miles hence;and almost as soon as I came into the world, I was very nearleaving it again. My mother brought five of us at a litter;and as the people of the house only kept cats to be useful,and were already sufficiently stocked, we were immediatelydoomed to be drowned; and accordingly a boy was orderedto take us all, and throw us into the horse-pond. This hedid, with the pleasure boys often take in acts of cruelty, andwe were presently set a-swimming. While we were struggl¬ing for life, a little girl came running to the pond-side, andbegged that she might save one of us, and bring it up for herown. After some dispute, her request was granted; and theboy, reaching out his arm, took hold of me, who was luckilynearest him, and brought me out. I was laid on the grass,and it was some time before I recovered. The girl thenrestored me to my mother, who w'as overjoyed to get againone of her little ones; and, for fear of another mischance, shetook me in her mouth to a dark hole, where she kept me tillI could see, and was able to run by her side. As soon as Icame to light again, my little mistress took possession of me,and tended me very carefully. Her fondness, indeed, wassometimes troublesome; as she pinched my sides with carry¬ing me, and once or twice hurt me a good deal by. letting mefall. Soon, however, I became strong and active, and playedand gamboled all day long, to the great delight of my mistressand her companions.4to \away at his entrance; but I thinking that I was able to pro¬tect myself, stayed on the floor, growling, and setting up myhack by way of defence. The dog instantly ran at me; and,before I could get my claws ready, seized me with his mouth,and began to gripe and shake me most terribly. I screamedout, and, by good luck, my mistress was within hearing. Sheran to us, but was not able to disengage me: however, a servant,seeing her distress, took a stick, and gave the dog such a bangon the back, that he was forced to let me go. He had usedme so roughly, that I was not able to stand for some time;but, by care, and a good constitution, I recovered.“ I was now running after every body’s heels, by whichmeans I got one day locked up in the dairy. I was not sorryfor this accident, thinking to feast upon the cream and othergood things. But, having climbed up a shelf to get at a bowlof cream, I unluckily fell backwards into a large vessel of but¬termilk, where I should probably have been drowned, had notthe maid heard the noise, and come to see what was the mat¬ter. She took me out, scolding bitterly: and after undergoinga severe discipline at the pump to clean me, I was dismissedwith a good whipping. I took care not to follow her into thedairy again.“After a while, I began to get into the yard, and my mothertook me into the barn upon a mousing expedition. We satby a hole, and presently out came a mouse with a brood ofyoung ones. My mother darted among them, and first de¬molished the old one, and then pursued the little ones, whorau about squeaking in dreadful perplexity. I now thoughtit was time for me to do something ; and accordingly ranafter a straggler, and soon overtook it. Oh, how proud was I,as I stood over my trembling captive, and patted him withmy paws ! My pride, however, soon met with a check; forseeing one day a large rat, I courageously flew at him; but,instead of turning tail, he gave me such a bite on the nose,that I ran away to my mother, mewing piteously, with myface all bloody and swelled. For some time, I did not meddlewith rats again; hut at length, growing stronger, and moreskilful, I feared neither rats nor any other vermin, and ac¬quired the reputation of an excellent hunter.“ I had some other escapes about this time. Once I hap¬pened to meet with some poisoned food laid for the rats; and,eating it, I was thrown into a disorder that was very nearkilling me. At another time, I chanced to set ray foot in avue nouse a strange dog, who had been *ta tle cats that came in his way. Mv mother illSrivorry all the5rat-trap, and received so many deep wounds from its teeth,that, though I was loosened as gently as possible by thepeople who heard me cry, I was rendered lame for someweeks after.“ Time went on, and I arrived at my full growth ; and,forming an acquaintance with a he-cat about my age, after adecent resistance by scolding, biting, and scratching, wemade a match of it. I became a mother in due time; andhad the mortification of seeing several broods of my kittensdisposed of in the same manner as my brothers and sistershad been.“ I shall mention two or three more adventures, in the orderI remember them.—I was once prowling for birds along ahedge, at some distance from home, when the Squire’s grey¬hounds came that way a-coursing. As soon as they spiedme, they set off at full speed ; and, running much faster thanI could do, were just at my tail, when I reached a tree, andsaved myself by climbing up it.—But a greater danger befelme, on meeting with a parcel of boys returning from school.They surrounded me before I was aware, and obliged me totake refuge in a tree. But I soon found that a poor defenceagainst such enemies; for they assembled about it, and threwstones on all sides, so that I could not avoid receiving manyhard blows, one of which brought me senseless to the ground.The biggest boy now seized me, and proposed to the restmaking what he called rare sport with me. This sport was,to tie me to a board, and, launching me on a pond, to setsome water-dogs at me, while I was to defend myself by bit¬ing their noses, and scratching their eyes. Already was Ibound, and just ready to be set a-sailing, when the school¬master, taking a walk that way, and seeing the bustle, cameup, and obliged the boys to set me at liberty, severely repri¬manding them for their cruel intentions.“ The next remarkable incident of my life, was the occasionof my removal from the country. My mistress’s brother hada tame linnet, of which he was very fond: for it would comeand light on his shoulder, when he called it, and feed out ofhis hand; and it sung well besides. This bird was usuallyeither in a cage, or upon a high perch. But, one unluckyday, when he and I were alone in the room together, he camedown on the table to pick up crumbs: I spied him; and, notbeing able to resist the temptation, I sprung at him, and,catching him in my claws, soon began to devour him. I hadalmost finished, when his master came into the room; and,seeing me with the remains of poor linnet in my mouth, heran to me in the greatest fury, and after chasing me several6times round the room, at length caught me. He was proceed¬ing instantly to hang me, when his sister, by many entreatiesand tears, persuaded him—after a good whipping—to forgiveme, upon the promise that I should be sent away. Accord¬ingly, the next market-day I was despatched in the cart to arelation of theirs in town, who wanted a good cat, as the housewas overrun with mice.“ In the service of this family I continued a good while,performing my duty as a mouser, extremely well. I soonbecame acquainted with all the particulars of a town life; anddistinguished myself by my activity in climbing up walls audhouses, and jumping from roof to roof, either in pursuit of prey,or upon gossiping parties with my companions. Once, how¬ever, I had like to have suffered for my venturing; for, havingmade a great jump from one house to another, I lighted upona loose tile, which giving way with me, I fell from a vastheight into the street; and should certainly have been killed,had I not had the luck to light in a dung-cart, whence Iescaped with no other injury than being half stifled withfilth.“ Notwithstanding the danger I had run from killing thelinnet, I am sorry to confess that I was again guilty of a similaroffence. I contrived, one night, to leap down from a roofupon the board of some pigeon-holes, which led to a garretinhabited by those birds. I entered; and, finding them asleep,made sad havoc among all that were within my reach—killingand sucking the blood of about a dozen. I was near payingdearly for this, too; for, on attempting to return, I found itwas impossible for me to leap up again to the place whence Ihad descended : so that, after several dangerous trials, I wasobliged to wait trembling till the owner came up in themorning to feed his pigeons. I rushed out between his legs,as soon as the door was opened, and had the good fortune toget safe down stairs, and make my escape through a windowunknown. Let my double danger be a warning to you, mychildren, to control your appetites, and on no account to doharm to those creatures which, like ourselves, are under theprotection of man.“ Well—but my breath begins to fail me, and I must hastento a conclusion. I still lived in the same family, when ourpresent kind mistress, Mrs. Petlove, having lost a favouritetabby, advertised a very handsome price for another thatshould as nearly as possible resemble her dead darling. Myowners, tempted by the offer, took me for the good lady’s in¬spection ; and I had the honour of being preferred to a multi¬tude of rivals. I was immediately settled in the comfortable7mansion we now inhabit, and had many favours and indul¬gences bestowed upon me, such as I had never beforeexperienced. Among these, I reckon one of the principal—that of being allowed to rear all my children, and to see themgrow up in peace and plenty. My adventures here have beenfew; for, after the monkey had spitefully bit off the last jointof my tail,—for which I had the satisfaction to see him soundlywhipped,—I kept beyond the length of his chain: and neitherthe parrot nor lap-dog ever dared to molest me. One of thegreatest afflictions I have felt here was, the stifling of a wholelitter of my kittens, by a fat old lady, a friend of my mistress’s,who sat down on the chair where they lay, and never per¬ceived the mischief she was doing till she rose, though Ipulled her clothes, and used all the means in my power toshow my uneasiness. This misfortune my mistress took toheart almost as much as myself; and the lady has never sinceentered our doors. Indeed, both I and mine have ever beentreated here with the utmost kindness—perhaps, with toomuch; for, to the pampering me with delicacies, togetherwith Mrs. Abigail’s frequent washings, I attribute this asthma,which is now putting an end to my life rather sooner than itsnatural period. But I know all was meant well; and, withmy last breath, I charge you all to show your gratitude to ourworthy mistress, by every return in your power.“And now, my dear children, farewell!’’Having said this, Grimalkin became speechless, and pre¬sently departed this life, to the great grief of all the family.PERSEVERANCE AGAINST FORTUNE.Theodore was a boy of lively parts and engaging man¬ners ; but he had the failing of being extremely impatient inhis temper, and inclined to extremes. He was ardent in allhis pursuits, but could bear no disappointment; and if theleast thing went wrong, he threw up what he was about in apet, and could not be prevailed upon to resume it. Hisfather, Mr. Carleton, had given him a bed in the garden,which he had cultivated with great delight. The borderswere set with double daisies of different colours, next to whichwas a row of auriculas and polyanthuses. Beyond were stocksand other taller flowers and shrubs; and a beautiful damaskrose graced the centre. This rose was just budding, andTheodore watched its daily progress with great interest. Oneunfortunate day, the door of the garden being left open, a8drove of pigs entered, and began to riot on the herbs andflowers. An alarm being sounded, Theodore and the servantboy rushed upon them, smacking their whips. The wholeherd, in fright, took their course across Theodore’s flower¬bed, on which some of them had before been grazing. Stocks,daisies, and auriculas, were all trampled down or torn up;and what was worst of all, a large old sow ran directly over thebeautiful rose-tree, and broke off its stem level with the ground.When Theodore came up, and beheld all the mischief, andespecially his favourite rose strewed on the soil, rage and griefchoked his utterance. After standing a while the picture ofdespair, he snatched up a spade that stood near, and withfurious haste dug over the whole bed, and whelmed all therelics of his flowers deep under the soil. This exertion beingended, he burst into tears, and silently left the garden.His father, who had beheld the scene at a distance, thoughsomewhat diverted at the boy’s childish violence, yet beganseriously to reflect on the future consequences of such atemper, if suffered to grow up without restraint. He saidnothing to him at the time, but in the afternoon he took hima walk into a neighbouring parish. There was a large wildcommon, and, at the skirts of it, a neat farm-house, withfields lying round it, all well fenced, and cultivated in thebest manner. The air was sweetened with the bean-flowerand clover. An orchard of fine young fruit lay behind thehouse; and before it a little garden, gay with all the flowersof the season. A stand of bee-hives was on the southern side,sheltered by a thick hedge of honeysuckle and sweet brier.The farm-yard was stocked with pigs and poultry. A herdof cows with full udders was just coming home to be milked.Every thing wore the aspect of plenty and good management.The charms of the scene struck Theodore very forcibly, andhe expressed his pleasure in the warmest terms. “Thisplace,” said his father, “belongs to a man who is the greatestexample I know of patient fortitude bearing up against mis¬fortune ; and all that you see is the reward of his own perse¬verance. I am a little acquainted with him ; and we will goin and beg a draught of milk, and try if tve can prevail uponhim to tell us his story,” Theodore willingly accompaniedhis father. They were received by the farmer with cordialfrankness. After they were seated, “ Mr. Hardman,” saysMr. Carleton, “I have often heard of part of your adventures,but never had a regular account of the whole. If you willfavour me and my little boy with the story of them, we shallthink ourselves much obliged to you.”—“Lack a-day ! Sir,”said he, “ there’s little in them worth telling of, as far as I0know. I have had my ups and downs in the world, to besure ; but so have many men besides. However, if you wishto hear about them, they are at your sendee; and I can’t saybut it gives me pleasure sometimes to talk over old matters,and think how much better things have turned out than mighthave been expected.”—“ Now I am of opinion,” said Mr. C.,“that from your spirit and perseverance, a good conclusionmight always have been expected.”—“You are pleased tocompliment, sir,” replied the farmer; “but I will begin withoutmore words.‘‘You may perhaps have heard that my father was a manof good estate. He thought of nothing, poor man ! but howto spend it; and he had the uncommon luck to spend it twiceover. For When he was obliged to sell it the first time, it wasbought in by a relation, who left it him again by his will.But my poor father was not a man to take warning. He fellto living as he had done before, and just made his estate andhis life hold out together. He died at the age of five andforty, and left his family beggars. I believe he would nothave taken to drinking, as he did, had it not been for his im¬patient temper, which made him fret and vex himself for everytrifle, and then he had nothing for it but to drown his care inliquor.“ It was my lot to be taken by my mother’s brother, whowas master of a merchant-ship. I served him as an appren¬tice seven years, and underwent a good deal of the usualhardship of a sailor’s life. He had just made me his mate ina voyage up the Mediterranean, when wre had the misfortuneto be wrecked on the coast of Morocco. The ship struck atsome distance from shore, and we lay a long stormy night withthe waves dashing over us, expecting every moment to perish.My uncle and several of the crew died of fatigue and want;and, by morning, but four of us were left alive. My companionswere so disheartened, that they thought of nothing but sub¬mitting to their fate. For my part, I thought life still w'orthstruggling for; and, the weather having become calmer, Ipersuaded them to join me in making a kind of raft, by thehelp of which, with much toil and danger, we reached theland. Here we were seized by the barbarous inhabitants, andcarried up the country for slaves to the emperor. We wereemployed about some public buildings, made to work veryhard with the whip at our backs, and allowed nothing butwater and a kind of pulse. I have heard persons talk as ifthere was little in being a slave but the name; but they whohave been slaves themselves, I am sure, will never make lightof slavery in others. A ransom was set on our heads, but so210high, that it seemed impossible for poor friendless creatureslike us ever to pay it. The thought of perpetual servitude,together with the hard treatment we met with, quite over¬came my poor companions. They drooped, and died oneafter another. I still thought it not impossible to mend mycondition, and perhaps to recover my freedom. We workedabout twelve hours in the day, and had one holiday in theweek. I employed my leisure time in learning to make matsand flag-baskets, in which I soon became so expert, as tohave a good many for sale, and thereby got a little money topurchase better food, and several small conveniences. Wewere afterwards set to work in the emperor’s gardens; andhere I showed so much good-will and attention, that I got intofavour with the overseer. He had a large garden of his own;and he made interest for me to be suffered to work for himalone, on the condition of paying a man to do my duty. Isoon became so useful to him, that he treated me more like ahired servant than a slave, and gave me regular wages. Ilearned the language of the country, and might have passedmy time comfortably enough, could I have accommodatedmyself to their manners and religion, and forgot my nativeland. I saved all I could, in order to purchase my freedom ;but the ransom was so high, that I had little prospect of beingable to do it for some years to come. A circumstance, how¬ever, happened, which brought it about at once. Some vil¬lains, one night, laid a plot to murder my master, and plunderhis house. I slept in a little shed in the garden where thetools lay; and being awakened by a noise, I saw four menbreak through the fence, and walk up an alley towards thehouse. I crept out with a spade in my hand, and silentlyfollowed them. They made a hole with instruments in thehouse-wall, big enough for a man to enter at. Two of themhad got in; and the third was beginning to enter when Irushed forward, and with the blow of my spade clove theskull of one of the robbers, and gave the other such a strokeon the shoulder as disabled him. I then made a loud outcryto alarm the family. My.master and his son, who lay in thehouse, got up, and having let me in, we secured the twoothers, after a sharp conflict, in which I received a severewound with a dagger. My master, who looked upon me ashis preserver, had all possible care taken of me; and as soonas I v’as cured, made me a present of my liberty. He wouldfain have kept me with him; but my mind was so much benton returning to my native, country, that I immediately set outto the nearest seaport, and took my passage in a vessel goingto Gibraltar.11“ From tliis place I returned in the first ship fur England.As soon as we arrived in the Downs, and I was rejoicing atthe sight of the white clift's, a man-of-war's boat came onboard, and pressed into the king’s service all of us who wereseamen. I could not but think it hard that this should be mywelcome at home after a long slavery; but there was noremedy. I resolved to do my duty in my station, and leavethe rest to Providence. I was abroad during the remainderof the war, and saw many a stout fellow sink under diseaseand despondence. My knowledge of seamanship got me pro¬moted to the post of a petty officer; and at the peace I waspaid off, and received a pretty sum for wages and prize-money.With this I set off for London. I had experienced too muchdistress from want to be inclined to squander away my money;so I put it into a banker’s hands, and began to look out forsome new way of life.“Unfortunately, there were some things of which I had nomore experience than a child, and the tricks of London wereamong these. An advertisement, offering extraordinary ad¬vantages to a partner in a commercial concern, who couldbring a small capital, tempted me to make inquiry about thematter; and I was soon cajoled, by a plausible artful fellow,to venture my whole stock in it. The business was a manu¬facture, about which I knew nothing at all; but, as I wasnot afraid of my labour, I set about working as they directedme, with great diligence, and thought all was going on pros¬perously. One morning, on coming to the office, I found mypartners decamped; and the same day I was arrested for aconsiderable sum due by the partnership. It was in vain forme to think of getting bail; so I was obliged to go to prison.Here I should have been half starved, but for my Moorishtrade of mat-making, by the help of which I bettered mycondition for some months ; when the creditors, finding thatnothing could be got out of me, suflered me to be set atliberty.“I was now in the wide world without a farthing or afriend; but I thanked God, that I had health and limbs left.I did not choose to trust to the sea again, but preferred myother new trade of gardening; so I applied to a nurserymannear town, and was received as a day-labourer. I set myselfcheerfully to work, taking care to be in the grounds the firstman in the morning, and the last at night. I acquainted myemployer with all the practices I had observed in Morocco ;and got him, in return, to instruct me in his own. In time, Icame to be considered as a skilful workman, and was advancedto higher wages. My affairs were in a flourishing state. I12was well fed and comfortably lodged, and saved money intothe bargain. About this time I fell in company with a youngwoman at service, very notable and well behaved, who seemedwell qualified for a wife to a working man. I ventured toto make an offer to her, which proved not disagreeable; and,after we had calculated a little how we were to live, we mar¬ried. I took a cottage, with an acre or two of land to it; andmy wife’s savings furnished our house, and bought a cow.All my leisure time I spent upon my piece of ground, whichI made very productive; and the profits of my cow, with mywages, supported us very well. No mortal, I think, could behappier than I was after a hard day’s work, by my own fire¬side, with my wife beside me, and our little infant on myknee.“ After this way of life had lasted two or three years, agentleman who had dealt largely with my master for youngplants, asked if he could recommend an honest industriousman for a tenant upon some land that he had lately taken infrom the sea. My master, willing to do me a kindness, men¬tioned me. I was tempted by the proposal; and, going downto view the premises, I took a farm upon a lease at a lowrent, and removed my family and goods to it, one hundredand fifty miles from London. There was ground enough forthe money; but much was left to be done for it in draining,manuring, and fencing. Then it required more stock than Iwas able to furnish; so, though unwilling, I was obliged toborrow some money of my landlord, who let me have it at amoderate interest. I began with a good heart, and workedlate and early to put things into the best condition. My firstmisfortune was, that the place proved unhealthy to us. I fellinto a lingering ague, which pulled me down much, and hin¬dered my business. My wife got a slow fever, and so did oureldest child (we had now two, and another coming). Thepoor child died; and, what with grief and illness, my wife hadmuch, ado to recover. Then the rot got among my sheep, andcarried off the best part of my stock. I bore up against distressas well as I could; and, by the kindness of my landlord, wasenabled to bring things tolerably about again. We regainedour health, and began to be seasoned to the climate. As wewere cheering ourselves with the prospect of better times, adreadful storm arose—it was one night in February—I shallnever forget it—and drove the spring-tide with such furyagainst our sea-banks, that they gave way. The water rushedin with such force, that all was presently a sea. Two hoursbefore day-light, I was awakened by the noise of the wavesdashing against our house, and bursting in at the door. My13wife had lain in about a month ; and she and I, and the twochildren, slept on a ground floor. We had just time to carrythe children up stairs, before all was afloat in the room.When day appeared, we could see nothing from the windowsbut water. All the out-houses, ricks, and utensils were sweptaway; and all the cattle and sheep drowned. The sea keptrising, and the force of the current bore so hard against ourhouse, that we thought every moment it must fall. Weclasped our babies to our breasts, and expected nothing butpresent death. At length we spied a boat coming to us.With a good deal of difficulty, it got under our window, andtook us in, with a servant maid and boy. A few clothes wasall the property we saved; and we had not left the househalf an hour, before it fell, and in a minute nothing was tobe seen of it. Not only the farm-house, but the farm itself,was gone.“ I was now again a ruined man; and, what was worse, Ihad three partners in my ruin. My wife and I looked at oneanother, and then at our little ones, and wept. Neither of ushad a word of comfort to say. At last, thought I, this countryis not Morocco, however. Here are good souls that will pityour case, and perhaps relieve us. Then I have a character,and a pair of hands. Things are bad, but they might havebeen worse. I took my wife by the hand, and knelt down.She did the same. I thanked God for his mercy in savingour lives, and prayed that he would continue to protect us.We rose up with lightened hearts, and were able to talkcalmly about our condition. It was my desire to return tomy former master, the nurseryman; but how to convey myfamily so far without money was the difficulty. Indeed, Iwas much worse than nothing; for I owed a good deal to mylandlord. He came down, upon the news of the misfortune;and, though his own losses were heavy, he not only forgaveme the debt, and released me from all obligations, but mademe a small present. Some charitable neighbours did the like.But I was most of all affected by the kindness of our latemaid-servant, who insisted upon our accepting of a crown,which she had saved out of her wages. Poor soul! we hadalways treated her like one of ourselves, and she felt for uslike one.“ As soon as we had got some necessaries, and the weathervas tolerable, we set out on our long march. My wife carried’ r infant in her arms. I took the bigger child on my back,jj11 a bundle of clothes in my hand. We could walk but a^"niles a day; but we, now and then, got a lift in an emptya%n or cart, which was a great help to us. One day weumet with a farmer returning with his team from market, wholet us ride, and entered into conversation with me. I toldhim of my adventures, by which he seemed much interested;and, learning that I was skilled in managing trees, he ac¬quainted me that a nobleman in his neighbourhood was mak¬ing great plantations, and would very likely he glad to engageme: and he offered to carry us to the place. As all I wasseeking was a living by my labour, I thought the sooner I gotit the better; so I thankfully accepted his offer. He took usto the nobleman’s steward, and made known our case. Thesteward wrote to my old master for a character; and receiv¬ing a favourable one, he hired me as a principal manager of anew plantation, and settled me and my family in a snug cot¬tage near it. He advanced us somewhat for a little furnitureand present subsistence; and we had once more a home. OSir! how many blessings are contained in that word, to thosewho have known the want of it!“ I entered upon my new employment with as much satis¬faction, as if I was taking possession of an estate. My wifehad enough to do in taking care of the house and children;so it lay with me to provide for all, and I may say that I wasnot idle. Besides my weekly pay from the steward, I con¬trived to make a little money, at leisure times, by pruning anddressing gentlemen’s fruit-trees. I was allowed a piece ofwaste ground behind the house for a garden; and I spent agood deal of labour in bringing it into order. My old mastersent me down, for a present, some choice young trees andflower roots, winch I planted ; and they throve wonderfully.Things went on almost as well as I could desire. The situationbeing dry and healthy, my wife recovered her lost bloom, andthe children sprung up like my plants. I began to hope thatI was almost out of the reach of further misfortune; but itwas not so ordered.“ I had been three years in this situation, and increased myfamily with another child, when my Lord died. He was suc¬ceeded by a very dissipated young man, deep in debt, whopresently put a stop to the planting and improving of theestate, and sent orders to turn off all the workmen. This wasa great blow to me; however, I still hoped to be allowed tokeep my little house and garden, and I thought I could thenmaintain myself as a nurseryman and gardener. But a newsteward was sent down, with directions to rack the tenants totlie utmost. He asked me as much rent for the place as if Thad found the garden ready made to my hands ; and whemtold him it was impossible for me to pay it, he gave 10notice to quit immediately. He would neither suffer m t015take away my trees and plants, nor allow me any thing forthem. His view, I found, was to put in a favourite of hisown, and set him up at my expense. I remonstrated againstthis cruel injustice, but could obtain nothing but hard words.As I saw it would be the ruin of me to be turned out in thatmanner, I determined, rather hastily, to go up to London, andplead my cause with my new Lord. I took a sorrowful leaveof my family, and walking to the next market-town, I got aplace on the outside of the stage-coach. When we werewithin thirty or forty miles of London, the coachman over¬turned the carriage, and I pitched directly on my head, andwas taken up senseless. Nobody knew any thing about me;so I was carried to the next village, where the overseer hadme taken to the parish workhouse. Here I lay a fortnight,much neglected, before I came to my senses. As soon as Ibecame sensible of my condition, I was almost distracted inthinking of the distress my poor wife, who was near lying in,must be under on my account, not hearing any thing of me.I lay another fortnight before I was fit to travel; for, besidesthe hurt on my head, I had a broken collar-bone, and severalbruises. My money had somehow all got out of my pocket,and I had no other means of getting away than by beingpassed to my own parish. I returned in sad plight indeed,and found my wife very ill in bed. My children were cryingabout her, and almost starving. We should now have beenquite lost, had I not raised a little money by selling our fur¬niture ; for I was yet unable to work. As soon as my wifewas somewhat recovered, we were forced to quit our house. Icried like a child in leaving my blooming garden and flourish¬ing plantations, and was almost tempted to demolish them,rather than another should unjustly reap the fruit of mylabours. But I checked myself, and I am glad I did. Wetook lodgings in a neighbouring village, and I went roundamong the gentlemen of the country to see if I could get alittle employment. In the mean time the former stewardcame down to settle accounts with his successor, and wasmuch concerned to find me in such a situation. He was avery able and honest man, and had been engaged by anothernobleman to superintend a large improvable estate in a dis¬tant part of the kingdom. He told me, if I would try myfortune with him once more, he would endeavour to procureme a new settlement. I had nothing to lose, and thereforewas willing enough to run any hazard; but I was destitute ofmeans to convey my family to such a distance. My goodfriend, who was much provoked at the injustice of the new.'“.ward, said so much to him, that he brought him to make16me an allowance for my garden; and with that I was enabledto make another removal. It was to the place I nowinhabit.“ When I came here, Sir, all this farm was a naked com¬mon, like that you crossed in coming. My Lord got anenclosure-bill for his part of it; and the steward divided itinto different farms, and let it on improving leases to severaltenants. A dreary spot, to be sure, it looked at first, enoughto sink a man’s heart to sit down upon it! I had a little un¬finished cottage given me to live in ; and, as I had nothing tostock a farm, I was for some years employed as head labourerand planter about the new enclosures. By very hard workingand saving, together with a little help, I was at length enabledto take a small part of the ground I now occupy. I had vari¬ous discouragements, from bad seasons and other accidents.One year the distemper carried off four out of seven cows thatI kept; another year I lost two of my best horses. A highwind once almost entirely destroyed an orchard I had justplanted, and blew down my biggest barn. But I was toomuch used to misfortune to be easily disheartened; and myway always was to set about repairing them in the best man¬ner I could, and leave the rest to heaven. This methodseems to have answered at last. I have now gone on manyyears in a course of continued prosperity, adding field to field,increasing my stock, and bringing up a numerous family withcredit. My dear wife, who was my faithful partner throughso much distress, continues to share my prosperous state; andfew couples in the kingdom, I believe, have more cause to bothankful for their lot. This, Sir, is my history. You see itcontains nothing very extraordinary; but if it impresses onthe mind of this young gentleman the maxim, that patienceand perseverance will scarcely fail of a good issue in the end,the time you have spent listening to it will not entirely belost.”Mr. Carleton thanked the good farmer very heartily for the1amusement and instruction he had afforded them, and tookleave with many expressions of regard. Theodore and hewalked home, talking, by the way, of what they had heard.Next morning Mr. 0., looking out of the window, saw Theo¬dore hard at work in his garden. He was carefully disenterr-ing his buried flowers, trimming and cleaning them, and plant¬ing them anew. He had got the gardener to cut a slip of thebroken rose-tree, and set it in the middle to give it a chance forgrowing. By noon every thing was laid smooth and neat, andthe bed was well filled. All its splendour, indeed, was gonefor the present; but it seemed in a hopeful way to revive17ingain. Theodore looked with pleasure over his work; buthis father felt more pleasure in witnessing the first-fruits offarmer Hardman’s story.A FRIEND IN NEED.1 Geokge Cornish, a native of London, was brought up tothe sea. After making several voyages to the East Indies inthe capacity of mate, he obtained the command of a ship inthe country trade there, and passed many years of his life insailing from one port to another of the Company’s differentsettlements, and residing at intervals on shore with the super-intendants of their commercial concerns. Having by thesemeans raised a moderate fortune, and being now beyond themeridian of life, he felt a strong desire of returning to hisnative country, and seeing his family and friends, concerningwhom he had received no tidings for a long time. He rea¬lized his property, settled his affairs, and, taking his passagefor England, arrived in the Downs, after an absence of six¬teen years.He immediately repaired to London, and went to the housejof an only brother whom he had left possessed of a genteel. place in a public office. He found that his brother was dead,land the family broken up; and he was directed to the houseI of one of his nieces, who was married and settled at a smalldistance from town. On making himself known, he was re¬ceived with great respect and affection by the married niece,and a single sister who resided with her; to which good re¬ception, the idea of his bringing back with him a large fortunedid not a little contribute. They pressed him, in the mosturgent manner, to take up his abode there, and omitted no¬thing that could testify their dutiful regard to so near a rela¬tion. On his part, he was sincerely glad to see them, and[presented them with some valuable Indian commodities which(he had brought with him. They soon fell into conversationi concerning the family events that had taken place during hislong absence. Mutual condolences passed on the death ofthe father: the mother had been dead long before. Thei captain, in the warmth of his heart, declared his intention ofbefriending the survivors of the family, and his wishes ofseeing the second sister as comfortably settled in the worldas the first seemed to be.“ But,” said he, “ are you two the only ones left? Whatis become of my little smiling play-fellow, Amelia? I re-18member her as if it were yesterday, coming behind my chair,and giving me a sly pull, and then running away that Imight follow her for a kiss. I should be sorry if any thinghad happened to her.”—“ Alas ! Sir,” said the eldest niece,“ she has been the cause of an infinite deal of trouble to herfriends. She was always a giddy girl, and her misconducthas proved her ruin. It would be happy if we could allforget her.”—“ What; then !” said the uncle, “ has she dis¬honoured herself? Poor creature!”—“I cannot say,” re¬plied the niece, “ that she has done so in the worst sense olthe word ; but she has disgraced herself and family by a hastyfoolish match with one beneath her; and it has ended, nsmight be expected, in poverty and wretchedness.”—“I amglad,” returned the captain, “ that it is no worse; for thoughI much disapprove of improper matches, yet young girls mayfall into still greater evils ; and where there is no crime, therecan be no irreparable disgrace. But who was the man, andwhat did fSy brother say to it “ Why, Sir, I cannot saybut it was partly my father’s own fault; tor he took a sort olliking to the young man, who was a drawing-master employedin the family, and would not forbid him the house after wehad informed him of the danger of an attachment betweenAmelia and him. So, when it was too late, he fell into aviolent passion about it, which had no other effect than todrive the girl directly into her lover’s arms. They married,and soon fell into difficulties. My father, of course, woulddo nothing for them ; and when he died, he not only disin¬herited her, but made us promise no longer to look upon heras a sister.”—“ And you did make that promise ?” said the:captain, in a tone of surprise and displeasure.—“We couldlnot disobey our parent,” replied the other sister; “ but wehave several times sent her relief in her necessities, though itwas improper for us to see her.”—“ And pray what is becomeof her at last; where is she now Really, she and herhusband have shifted their lodgings so often, that it is sometime since we heard any thing about them.”—“ Some time 1!how long?”—‘‘Perhaps half a-year or more.”—“Poor out¬cast!” cried the captain, in a sort of half-muttered voice;“I have made no promise, however, to renounce thee. Bepleased, madam,” he continued, addressing himself gravelyto the married niece, “ to favour me with the last directionyou had to this unfortunate sister.” She blushed, and looked!confused; and at length, after a good deal of searching, pre¬sented it to her uncle. “But, my dear Sir,” said she, “youwill not think of leaving us to-night. My servant shallmake all the inquiries yon choose, and save you the trouble;19and to-morrow yon can vide to town, and do as you thinkproper.”—“ My good niece,” said the captain, “ I am but anindifferent sleeper ; and I am afraid things would run in myhead, and keep me awake. Besides, I am naturally impa¬tient, and love to do my business myself. You will excuseme.” So saying, he took up his hat, and without much cere¬mony went out of the house, and took the road to town onfoot, leaving his two nieces somewhat disconcerted.When he arrived, he went without delay to the place men¬tioned, which was a by-street near Soho. The people whokept the lodgings informed him that the person he inquiredafter had left them several months, and they did not knowwhat was become of him. This threw the captain into greatperplexity; but, while he was considering what ho shoulddo next, the woman of the house recollected that Mr. Bland(that was the drawing-master’s name) had been employed ata certain school, where information about him might possiblybe obtained. Captain Cornish hastened away to the place,and was informed by the master of the school that such a manhad, indeed, been engaged there, but had ceased to attend forsome time past. “He was a very well-behaved, industriousyoung man,” added the master, “but in distressed circum¬stances, which prevented him from making that genteel ap¬pearance which we expect in all who attend our school; so Iwas obliged to dismiss him. It was a great force upon myfeelings, I assure you, Sir, to do so; but you know the thingcould not be helped.” The captain eyed him with indignantcontempt, and said, “I suppose then, Sir, your feelings neversuffered you to inquire where this poor creature lodged, orwhat became of him afterwards ?”—“As to that,” replied themaster, “ every man knows his own business best, and mytime is fully taken up with my own concerns ; but I believeI have a note of the lodgings he then occtipied—here it is.”The captain took it, and, turning on his heel, withdrew insilence. He posted away to the place, but there, too, had themortification of learning that he was too late. The people,however, told him that they believed he might find the familyhe was seeking in a neighbouring alley, at a lodging up threepair of stairs. The captain’s heart sunk within him ; how¬ever, taking a boy as a guide, he proceeded immediately tothe spot. On going up the narrow creaking staircase, he meta man coming down with a bed on his shoulders. At thetop of the landing stood another, with a bundle of blanketsand sheets. A woman with a child in her arms was expostu¬lating with him, and he heard hbr exclaim, “ Cruel! not toleave me one bed for myself and my poor children 1”—“Stop!”20said the captain to the man, “set down those things.” Theman hesitated. The captain renewed his command in aperemptory tone, and then advanced towards the woman.They looked earnestly at each other. Through her pale andemaciated features, he saw something of his little smiler; andat length, in a faint voice, he addressed her, “ Are you AmeliaCornish ?”—“ That was my name, ” she replied.—“ I am youruncle,” he cried, clasping her in his arms, and sobbing as ifhis heart would break. “ My uncle !” said she, and fainted.He was just able to set her down on the only remaining chair,and take her child from her. Two other young children camerunning up, and began to scream with terror. Amelia re¬covered herself. “ Oh, Sir, what a situation you see me in !”—“ A situation, indeed !” said he, “ poor forsaken creature !but you have one friend left!”He then asked what was become of her husband. She toldhim, that having fatigued himself with walking every day toa great distance for a little employment, that scarcely affordedthem bread, he had fallen ill, and was now in an hospital;and that, after having been obliged to sell most of their littlefurniture and clothes for present subsistence, their landlordhad just seized their only remaining bed for some arrears ofrent. The captain immediately discharged the debt; and,causing the bed to be brought up again, dismissed the man.He then entered into a conversation with his niece, about theevents that had befallen her. “ Alas! Sir,” said she, “I amsensible I was greatly to blame in disobeying my father, andleaving his roof as I did; but perhaps something might bealleged in my excuse—at least, years of calamity and distressmay be an expiation. As to my husband, however, he hasnever given me the least cause of complaint—he has everbeen kind and good; and what we have suffered has beenthrough misfortune, and not fault. To be sure, when wemarried, we did not know how a family was to be maintained.His was a poor employment; and sickness and other acci¬dents soon brought us to a state of poverty, from which wecould never retrieve ourselves. He, poor man ! was neveridle when he could help it, and denied himself every indul¬gence in order to provide for the wants of me and my chil¬dren. I did my part, too, as well as I was able. But myfather’s unrelenting severity made me quite heart-broken ;and though my sisters, two or three times, gave us a littlerelief in our pressing necessities,—for nothing else couldhave made me ask in the manner I did,—yet they wouldnever permit me to see them, and for some time past haveentirely abandoned us. I thought Heaven had abandoned21ns too The W”- ^iremest distress was come; but you, _.'i'ccii sent for our comfort. ’ ’—‘ ‘ And your comfort, pleaseGod ! I will be,” cried the captain with energy: “ you are myown dear child, and your little ones shall be mine too. Dryup your tears : better days, I hope, are approaching.”Evening was now coming on, and it was too late to thinkof changing lodgings. The captain procured a neighbour togo out for some provisions and other necessaries ; and thentook his leave, with a promise of being with his niece earlythe next morning. Indeed, as he proposed going to pay avisit to her husband, she was far from wishing to detain himlonger. He went directly thence to the hospital; and, hav¬ing got access to the apothecary, begged to be informed ofthe real state of his patient Bland. The apothecary told himthat he laboured under a slow fever, attended with extremedejection of spirits ; but that there were no signs of urgentdanger. “If you will allow me to see him,” said the cap¬tain, “I believe I shall be able to administer a cordial moreeffectual, perhaps, than all your medicines.” He was shownup to the ward where the poor man lay, and seated himself byhis bedside. “ Mr. Bland,” said he, ‘‘1 am a stranger to you ;! but I come to bring you some news of your family.” The sick| man roused himself, as it were, from a stupor, and fixed hisI eyes in silence on the captain. He proceeded—“ Perhapsyou may have heard of an uncle that your wife had in theEast Indies—he is come home, and—and—I am he.” Uponj this, he eagerly stretched out his hand, and taking that of| Bland, which was thrust out of the bedclothes to meet it,i gave it a cordial shake. The sick man’s eyes glistened: hej grasped the captain’s hand with all his remaining strength,!) and, drawing it to his mouth, kissed it with fervour. All hei could say was, “ God bless you !—be kind to poor Amelia !”1 “ I will—I will,” cried the captain, “ I will be a father to you!all—cheer up—keep up your spirits—all will be well!” Hethen, with a kind look and another shake of the hand, wishedhim a good night, and left the poor man lightened at once ofhalf his disease.IThecaptain went home to the coffee-house where he lodged,got a light supper, and went early to bed. After meditatingsometime with heartfelt satisfaction on the work of the day,he fell into a sweet sleep, which lasted till day-break. Thenext morning early, he rose, and sallied forth in search offurnished lodgings. After some inquiry, he met with a com¬modious set, in a pleasant airy situation, for which he agreed.He then drove to Amelia, and found her and her childrenneat and clean, and as well dressed as her poor wardrobe■22would admit. He embraced tnem ».ui- a, ^ ,lfrri0gj affectionand rejoiced Amelia’s heart with a favourable account . ’husband. He then told them to prepare for a ride with him.The children were overjoyed at the proposal, and they accom¬panied him down to the coach in high spirits. Amelia scarcelyknew what to think or expect. They drove first to a ware¬house for ready-made linen ; where the captain made Ameliafurnish herself with a complete set of every thing necessaryfor present use for the children and herself, not forgettingsome shirts for her husband. Thence they went to a clothesshop, where the little boy was supplied with a jacket andtrowsers, a hat, and great coat, and the girl with another greatcoat and a bonnet. Both were made as happy as happy couldbe. They were next all furnished with new' shoes. In short,they had not proceeded far, before the mother and threechildren were all in complete new habiliments, decent, but notfine; while the old ones were all tied up in a great bundle,and destined for some family still poorer than they had been.The captain then drove to the lodgings he had taken, andwhich he had directed to be put in thorough order. He ledAmelia up stairs, who knew not whither she was going.He brought her into a handsome parlour, and seated her in achair. “This, my dear,”’ said he, “ is your house. I hopeyou will let me, now and then, come and see you in it.”Amelia turned pale, and could not speak. At length, a floodof tears came to her relief, and she suddenly threw' herself ather uncle’s feet, and poured out thanks and blessings in abroken voice. He raised her; and, kindly kissing her andher children, slipped a purse of gold into her hand, and hur¬ried down stairs.He next went to the hospital, and found Mr. Bland sittingup in bed, and taking some food with apparent pleasure. Hesat down by him. “ God bless you, Sir !” said Bland: “ I seenow it is all a reality, and not a dream. Your figure has beenhunting me all night; and I have scarcely been able to satisfymyself whether I had really seen and spoken to you, or whe¬ther it was a fit of delirium. Yet my spirits have been light¬ened, and I have now been eating with a relish I have notexperienced for many days past. But may I ask how is mypoor Amelia, and my little ones?”—“They are well andhappy, my good friend,” said the captain ; “ and I hope youwill soon be so along with them.” The apothecary came up,and felt his patient’s pulse. “ You are a lucky doctor, indeed,Sir,” said he to Captain Cornish : “you have cured the poorman of his fever. His pulse is as calm as my own.” Thecaptain consulted him about the safety of removinf? him;2*23and the apothecary thought that there would he no hazard indoing it that very day. The captain waited the arrival ofthe physician, who confirmed the same opinion. A sedanchair was procured; and, full directions being obtained forthe future treatment, with the physician’s promise to lookafter him, the captain walked before the chair to the newlodging. On the knock at the door, Amelia looked out ofthe window; and, seeing the chair, ran down, and met heruncle and husband in the passage. The poor man, not know¬ing where he was, and gazing wildly around him, was carriedup stairs, and placed upon a good bed, while his wife andchildren assembled round it. A glass of wine, brought by thepeople of the house, restored him to his recollection; when amost tender scene ensued, which the uncle closed as soon ashe could, for fear of too much agitating the yet feeble organsof the sick man.By Amelia’s constant attention, assisted by proper help,Mr. Bland shortly recovered ; and the whole family lost theirsickly emaciated appearance, and became healthy and happy.The kind uncle was never long absent from them, and wasalways received with looks of pleasure and gratitude thatpenetrated his very soul. Ho obtained for Mr. Bland a goodsituation in the exercise of his profession, and took Ameliaand her children into his special care. As to his other nieces,though he did not entirely break off his connexion with them,but on the contrary showed them occasional marks of thekindness of a relation, yet he could never look upon themwith true cordiality. And as they had so well kept theirpromise to their father of never treating Amelia as a sister,while in her afflicted state, he took care not to tempt themto break it, now that she was in a favoured and prosperouscondition.THE BIRTH-DAY GIFT.The populous kingdom of Ava, in India beyond the Ganges,was once inherited by a minor prince, who was brought up inthe luxurious indolence of an Eastern palace. When he hadreached the age of seventeen, which, by the laws of thatcountry, was the period of majority for the crown, all thegreat men of his court, and the governors of the provinces,1 according to established custom, laid at his feet presents con¬sisting of the most costly products of art and nature that theyhad been able to procure. One offered a casket of the mostprecious jewels of Goleonda; another, a curious piece of clock-I work, made by an European artist; another, a piece of the24richest silk from the looms of China; another, a bezoar stone,said to be a sovereign antidote against all poisons and infec¬tious diseases ; another, a choice piece of the most fragrantrosewood, in a box of ebony inlaid with pearls ; another, agolden cruse full of genuine balsam of Mecca; another, acourser of the purest breed of Arabia; and another, a femaleslave of exquisite beauty. The whole court of the palacewas overspread with rarities ; and long rows of slaves werecontinually passing loaded with vessels and utensils of goldand silver, and other articles of high price.At length, an aged magistrate from a distant province madehis appearance. He was simply clad in a long cotton robe,and his hoary beard waved on his breast. He made his obei¬sance before the young monarch, and, holding forth an em¬broidered silken bag, he thus addressed him :—“ Deign, great king, to accept the faithful homage and fer¬vent good wishes of thy servant on this important day, and,with them, the small present I hold in my hand. Small, in¬deed, it is in show ; but not so, I trust, in value. Othershave offered what may decorate thy person—here is whatwill impart perpetual grace and lustre to thy features. Othershave presented thee with rich perfumes—here is what willmake thy name sweet and fragrant to the latest ages. Othershave given what may afford pleasure to thine eyes—here iswhat will nourish a source of never-failing pleasure withinthy breast. Others have furnished thee with preservatives .against bodily contagion—here is what will preserve thybetter parts uncontaminated. Others have heaped round theethe riches of a temporal kingdom—this will secure thee thetreasures of an eternal one.”He said, and drew from the purse a book, containing themoral Precepts of the sage Zender, the wisest and most virtuousman the East had ever beheld. “If,” he proceeded, “mygracious sovereign will condescend to make this his constant :companion, not an hour can pass in which its perusal maynot be a comfort and a blessing. In the arduous duties ofthy station, it will prove a faithful guide and counsellor.Amidst the allurements of pleasure and the incitements ofpassion, it will be an incorruptible monitor, that will neversuffer thee to err without warning thee of thy error. It willrender thee a blessing to thy people, and blessed in thyself;for what sovereign can be the one without the other?”He then returned the book to its place, and kneeling gaveit into the hands of the king. He received it with respectand benignity; and history affirms, that the use he made of Iit corresponded with the wishes of the donor.