ALOW AY KIRK ^OR,Tam o’ Shanter.A TALE.ANDMAN WAS MADE TO MOURN.J Poem,with a'sketchOFBURNS'S LIFE, %c,BY ROBERT BURNS,THE AVRSHIBE PORT.« Ah Tam! ah Tam 1 thou’ll get thy fairing '« Hi hell they’ll roast thee like a herring!- . in vain thy Kate awaits thy coming !• Kate soon will he a waefu’ woman !!!A Y R :iVmted and sold by D. Macarter k Co.18)7,VAS K E T CftOFBurns's JAfe, §c.ROBERT BURNS, the Authol'| *of Tam o’ Shakter, was born on! the 25th January, 17<59, on the Banksi of Boon, about 2 miles from Ayr.The house he was born in is stillkept in; good repair, and possessedby MielF/R -Goldie, for these 20years pjtst. The obliging landlordhas on the walls of the house paint¬ed in bright letters, “ Burns's Cot-| tage. Robert Burns the AyrshirePoet,' was born under this roof,on the %5th January, 1759. Inone of the largest Rooms, therestands a drawing of the poet on can¬vas. Many of the Travellers whovisit Ayr, walks out to the cottageand the ruins of Alloway Kirk.4the scene of action with Tam o'-Shanter and the Witches. TheKirk stands without a roof in themidst of the Burying ground. Thewalls of the Kirk were repaired^ fewyears ago, by some of the heritors,with a view to keep up the name ofthe place. The old bridge onwhich Tam’s Mare lost her tail, isstill standing, although condemnedby the road Trustees, not for age,but for the rising ground, on bothsides of the river, and another mag-nificient bridge is built, about a gunshot from it. The friends of Burnswho meet annually in the cottage,to celebrate his birth day, subscrib¬ed a sum adequate to the value puton it, as old material, were it takendown ; the auld brig of Doon nowstands as a monument to the poet’s.memory.In Burns’s infant days he owedmuch to an old woman, who resid¬ed in his father’s family, remarka¬ble for her ignorance, credulity andssuperstition, she had, he supposed,the largest collection in the coun¬try, of tales and songs, concerningdevils, ghosts, fairies, brownies,witches, warlocks, spunkies, kel¬pies, elf-candles, dead-lights, wraths,apparitions, cantrips, giants, en¬chanted towers, dragons, and othertrumpery. He no doubt believedthem, and would sit trembling whenhe heard these tales at night, untilhis manly spirit rose above them,which cultivated the latent seeds ofpoetry ; but had so strong on effecton his imagination, that to the endof his career, in his nocturnal ram¬bles, he sometimes kept a sharplookout in suspicious places; andthough nobody could be more scep¬tical than he was in such matters,yet, he said, it often took an effortof philosophy to shake off these idolterrors.Burns, in the 17th year of hisage, to give his manners a brush,went to a country dancing school.; 6His father, well knew the duty oca parent, had an unaccountable an¬tipathy against these meetings, andhis going was what, to his last mo¬ment, he had to repent, in opposi¬tion to his wishes. His father wassubject to strong passions; fromthat instance of disobedience inRobert, his father took a dislike tohim, which is believed to be onecause of his dissipation, which mark¬ed his succeeding years. It is tootrue, dancing schools have been theruin of thousands ! Not a villagebut there is a hop-master. Parentsshould strain every nerve to preventthese Hop-meetings, in ale houses.It is w'ell known they are notin thepath of virtue.The first circumstance which in¬duced our youthful poet to warbleIds “wild, artless notes,’* is very in-teresting, on account of the elega tsimplicity which distinguishes thefollowing description of his harvestpartner. “ She was abonnie, sweet.*?■ sonsie lass.” He says, “ she alto¬gether, unwittingly to herself, initi¬ated me in that delicious passion,which, in spite of acid disappoint¬ment, gin-horse prudence, and luke' warm philosophy, I hold to be thefirst qf human joys ^ our dearest bles¬sing here below. Indeed, 1 did notknow myself why I liked so muchto loiter behind with her, when re¬turning in the evening from our la¬bours ; why the tones of her voicemade my heart-strings thrill, like arEoli^n harp ; and particularly,why my pulse beat such a furiousratan, when I looked and fingeredover her little hand, to pick out thecruel nettle stings and thistles.“ Thus,” says he, “ with me be¬gan love & poetry -, which at timeshave been my only, and till withinthe last twelve months, my highestenjoyment.In the course of the poet’s life he’--was received at the tables of theBgentlemen of Nithsdale, with wel¬come, with kindness, and even withrespect. Their social parties toooften seduced him from the dutieshe owed to his family.But to return to his native spot,the cottage and Alloway Kirk, forthe curiosity of travellers, we shallgive a short description of the townof Ayr, where Burns fell in with hisfirst friends, whom he held dear tillhisdeath.We come next to the town ofAyr, the county town, and a pres-. bytery seat, is a royal burgh ofgreat antiquity, erected about 11 SO,containing about 8000 inhabitants.It is situated upon a point of land,between the influx of the rivers ofAyr and Doon, near its junctionwith the Atlantic Ocean ; the build¬ings on the banks of the river Ayr,are united by two bridges, whichjoins with the parishes of Newtonand St. Evox, the firstcontains »and the last 20?0 inhabitants. This*9-town formerly eould not boast ofmany advantages in point of appear¬ance. A very great addition hasbeen made to the town, within thistwenty years. In the main streetfine buildings erected, the streetsmade straighter, and very muchimproved by the Magistrates, in1813, both in paving and lighting;Formerly one person was employedin cleaning the streets, now thereare two. More improvement hasbeen made the last two yew's, inthe streets and lanes, than for thelast twenty.A very great addition is now'building, called Wellington square,and when finished, will be an orna¬ment to the town.Before the Reformation therewere in this town monasteries ofDominicans and Franciscans ; theformer founded in 1230, and thelatter in 1472. The church of St.John the Baptist stood near the sea;its tower still remains. This vener¬able structure was converted into10an armoury by Oliver Cromwell;who built a citadel round it, enclos¬ing 12 acres of ground ; in front ofthis ground, an academy is built,and- the number of students at¬tending this seminary amounts tonear 600. There ere two otheracademies in the county, one inKilmarnock, under the direction ofthe Magistrates, and one in Irvine,erected there by the Earl of Eglin-ton,. whose.pubic spirit will he longremembered. But the one at Ayrexceeds them, both in point oflearning, for men of the first rateabilities are employed as teachers,w hich raised this seminary to greatrenoun ; many of the students arefrom all quarters of the world. Itwras instituted by subscription, andthe subscribers erected into one Bo¬dy, political and corporate, by Iloy-al charter, in 1798. The managersand directors in terms of the Char-teY, are persons or bodies corporateor politic, who may have subscribed11rfie sum of £50 or upwards. Sevenmembers from the town council ofAyr, annually chosen. The SheriffDepute of the county for the timebeing. The nearest heir male of thedeceased John Fergusson of Doon-holm. Esq. Five contributors re¬presenting the minor subscribers.The number of teachers are six^besides their assistants. French,Italian and German, taught by alearned gentleman from France.A flourishing banking companyhas existed in Ayr for many years.Avr has a considerable harbour; butnavigation is much impeded by abar, w hich is occasionally thrown a-cross the mouth of the river, parti¬cularly by N. W. winds; a new actof pariiajnent is obtained to improveit ; the depth of the water, even atspring tides, seldom exceeds 12 feet.About 6000 tonnage and 500 sea¬men are employed in the coal andgrain trade. This parish claims-*12also the lionour of being the birth¬place of Joannes Erigena and Che¬valier Ramsay. The royalty con¬tains about 5000 acres, yielding arental of about 0,000 sterling.Ministers—Two in the parish,one Burgher, one Relief, one Mo¬ravian, and one Methodist.Medical Practitioners, nine.Lawyers thirty-two, &c. &c.Mails—Depart to London, byGlasgow, every morning at seveno’clock. To Glasgow from Ireland,Sec. every evening at 9 o’clock. ToGalloway, at half past 2, p. m. ToIreland, at 10 o’clock p. m.Arrivals of the London mails byGlasgow, at 2 p. m. Irish mails, at9 p. m.Coaches—Telegraph coach toGlasgow twice a-day, coach toGreenock thrice a week, & a Port-patrick Diligence every lawful day,and a neat Noodie to Kilmarnocktwice a-week*ALOW AY KIRK, &e.WHEN chapman billies leave the street.And drouthy neebors, neebors meetsAs market days are wearing late,And folk begin to tak’ the gate :While we sit bousing at the nappy,And getting fou and unco happy.We thinkna on the lang Scots miles,The mosses, waters, slaps and stiles,That lie between us and our hame,Whare sits our sulky sullen dame,.Gathering her brows like gathering stormyNursing her wrath to keep it warm.This truth fand honest Tam o’ Shanter,As he frae Ayr ae night did canter;(Auld Ayr, wham ne’er a town surpasses.For honest men and boney lasses.)O Tam ! hadst thou been but sae wise,.As ta’en thy ain wife Kate’s advice!She tauld thee weel thou was a skellum,A blethering, blustering drunken bellum;.That frae November till October,Ae market-day thou wast na sober;That ilka melder, wi’ the Miller,Thou sat as long as thou had siller;That every naig was ca’d a shoe on,The smith and thee gat roaring fou on$nThat «t the L—d’s, even on Sunday,Thou drank wif Kirkton Jean till Monday,She prophesied that, late or soon,Thou wad be found deep drown’d in Doon^Or catch’d wi’ warlocks in the mirk,By Aloway’s auld haunted Kirk.—AIK gentle dames ! it gars me greet,To think how many counsels sweet,How many lengthen’d, sage advices,The husband frae the wife despises 1But to our Tale ; Ae market-night,Tam had got planted unco right;Past by an ingle, bleezing finely,Wi’. reatnig swats, that drank divinely;And, at his elbow, Souter Jonny,His ancient, trusty, drouthy crony;Tam lo’ed him like a vera brither;They had been fou for weeks thegither :'The night drave on w i’ sang* and clatter,-And aye the ale was growing better :The Landlady and TAM grew gracious,Wi’ favours, secret, sweet, and precious fThe Soufer tauld her queerest stories.The Landlords laugh was ready chorus :The storm without might rair and rustic, ■TAM didna mind tlie storm a whistle.—Care, mad to see a man sae happy,E’en drown’d himseif amaivg the nappy;As bees dee home wi’ lades o’ treasure ;The minutes wing’d their way wi’ pleasure ■4V5    tKings may be blest, but Tam was glorious,O’er a’ the ills of life victorious! ■But pleasures are like poppies spread,You seize the flower, its bloom is shed ;Or, like the snow falls in the river,A moment white—then melts for ever :Or like the Borealis- race,That flit ere you can point the placeOr like the rainbows Ic/vely form,Evanishing amid the storm.—Nae man can tether Time or Tide,The hour approaches, Tam maun ride ;That hour, o’ night’s black arch the key-stane,That dreary hour he mounts his beast in,;And sic a night he taks the roadinjAs ne’er poor sinner was abroad in..The win’ blew as ’twad blawn its last,The rattlin showers rose on the blast;The speedy gleams the darkness- swallow’d.Loud, deep, and lang the thunder bellow’d:That night a child might understand.The deil had business on his baud.—"Weel mounted on his gray mare Meg.A better never lifted leg, .Tam skelpt on thro’ dub and mire,Despising wind, and'rain and fire; *Whiles bedding fast his gude blew bonnet;Whiles crooning o’er an auld Scots sonnet,16Whiles glowring round wi* prudent cares.Lest bogles catch him unawares ;KIRK-ALOWAY was drawing nigh,Where ghaists and howlets nightly cry.—•By this time he was cross the ford,Whare in the snaw the chapman smoor’dAnd past the birks and meikle stane,Whare drunken Charlie brake’s neck bane:And thro’ the wliims, and by the cairn,Whare hunter’s fan the murder’d bairn ;And near the thorn aboon the well,Whare Mungo’s mither bang’d hersel’.Before him Doon pours all his floods;The doubling storm roars thro’ the woods;The lightenings flash from polo to pole;Near and more near the thunders roll :Whan, glimmering thro’ the groaning trees'Kirk Aloway seem’d in a bleeze ;Thro’ ilka bore the beams were glancing,And loud resounded mirth and dancing.Inspiring bauld John Barleycorn,What danger thou canst make *js scorn !Wi’ Tipenny, we fear nae evil ;Wi’ Lhquebae, we’ll face the Devil!The swats sae ream’d in Tamie’s noddle,Fair play, he car’d na deil’s a boddle;But Maggy-stood right sair astonish’d.Till, by, the heel and hand admonish’d,She ventur’d fonvard to the light,And vow! Tam saw an unco sight]417Warlocks and witches in a dance,Kae cotillion, brent-new fiae France,But hornpipes, jigs, strathspeys and reels.Put life and mettle in their heels.—At winnock bunker, in the east,There sat auld Nick, in shape o’ beast;A touzie tyke, black, grim and large,To gie them music was his charge.He screw’d his pipes, and gart them skirl,Till roof and rafters a* did dirl.—Coffins stood round like open preses,That shew’d the dead in their last dresses,And (by some devilish cantrip slight)Each in its cauld hand held a lights—By which heroic Tam was ableTo note upon the haly table,A murderer's banes in gibbet-airns ;Twa span-long, wee unchristened bairns;A thief, new cutted frae a rape,Wi’ his last gasp his gab did gape;Five tomahawks, wi’ blud red-rusted ;Five scimitars, wi’ murder crusted ;A garter, which a babe had strangled ;A knife a father’s throat had mangled,Whom his ain son of life bereft,The grey hairs yet stack to the heft;With mair o’ horrible and awfu’Which e’en to pane wad be unlawfu’Three lawyers’ tongues, turn’d inside out.Wi' lies seem'd like a beggar’s cloot;Three Prfests’'hearts, rotten, black as muck,Lay stinking, vile, in every neuk—18'As Taraie glowr’d, amaz’d and curious,The mirth and fun grew fast and furious:The piper loud and louder blew:The dancers quick and quicker flew ;They reel’d, they set, they cross’d, theyTill ilka Carlin swat and reekit, £deekit,And koost her dudies to the wark,And linkit at it in her sark!Now, Tam, O Tam ! had they been queensA’ plump and strapping in their teens;Their sarks, instead o’ creeshie flanen,Been snaw white, seventeen hun.der linen !Thir breeks o’ mine, my only pair.That ance were plush o’ gude blue hair,I wad hae gien them aff my hurdles,For ae blink o the bony burdies!But wither’d beldams, auld and droll,Rigwoodie hags wad spean a foal,Louping and flinging on a crummock,I wonder did na torn thy stomach.But Tam kend what was what fu’ brawjy.There was ae winsome wench and Wally,That night inlisted in the core,(Lang after kend on Carrick shore ;For inony a beast to dead she shot,And perish’d inony a bonny boat,And shook baith meikle corn an’ bear,And kept the country-side in fear—-)Her cutty sark, o’ Paisley barn,That while, a.lassie she had worn,419■ In longitude tbo1 sorely scanty,It was her best, and she was vauntjv—»Ah, little thought thy reverend Grannie^That sark she coft for her wee Nannie,Wi’ twa pund Scots, (’twas a’ their riches)Wad ever grac’d a dance; of witches !But here, my muse her wing maun cour,Sic flights are far beyond her power;To sing how Nannie lap and flang,(A souple jade she was and strang)And how Tam stood like-ane betwitched.And thought his vera een enriched ;Even Satan glowr’d, and fig’d fu’ fain,And botch’d, and blew wi’ might an’ main :Till first ae caper—syne anither—Tam lost his reason a’ thegifher,Tben roars out—“ Weel done, Cutty sark !!’’And in an instant all is dark,And scarcely he has maggie rallied,Till out the hellish legion sallied.—As bees biz out wi’ angry fyk?#When plundering herds assail their byke,As open, pussies mortal foesWhen pop, she start-, before their nose :As eager rins the market-croud.When “ Catch the thief!” resounds aloud ;So Maggie rins, the witches.followWi’ mony an eldric shout and hollo,—-Ah Tam! ah Tam! thou’ll get thy fairing!In hell they’ll roast thee like a herring!20In vain thy KATE awaits thy coming !KATE soon will be a waefu’ woman!! INow, do thy speedy utmost, MEG,And win the key-stane o’ the brig;There at them thou thy tail may toss,A running stream they dare na cross;But ere the key-stane she could make,-The fient a tail she had to shake 1For Nanny, far before the rest,Hard upon noble Maggie prest,And flew at Tam wi’ furious ettle,But little kend she Maggie’s mettle:Ae spring brought aff her Master hale,But left behind her ain grey tail;The Carlin claught her by the rump,And left poor JVIaggie scarce a stump.—Now,'wha this tale o’ truth shall read,Ilk man and mother’s son take heed :Whene’er to drink you are inclin’d,Or Cutty Sarks rin in your mind,Think,—ye may buy,-lhe joys o’er dear:Remember Tam o’ Shanter’s MareMan was made to Mourn,A DIRGE.WHEN chill November’s surly blastMade fields and forests bare,One ev’ning as I wantTred forthAlong the banks of Ayr,I spy’d a man, whose aged stepSeem’d weary, worn with care;His face was farrow’d o’er with years,And hoary was his hair.Young stranger, whither wand’rest thou!(Began the rev’rend Sage ;)Does thirst of wealth thy step constrain.Or youthful Pleasure’s rage ?Or haply, prest wi’ cares end woes,Too soon thou hast begunTo wander forth with me, to mournThe miseries of man.The Sun that overhangs yon moors.Out-spreading far and wide,Where hundreds labour to supportA haughty lordling’s pride :I’ve seen yon weary winter-sunTwice forty times return;22An A every time has added proofs.That Man -was made to mourn.*•O Man ! while in thy early years.How prodigal of time !Mis-spending all thy precious hours,Thy glorious youthful prime !Alternate Follies take the sway :Licentious Passions burn;'Which tenfold force gives Nature’s law,That man was made to mourn.Look not alone on youthful Prime,Or Manhood’s active might;Man then is useful to his kind,Supported is his right.But see him on the edge of life,With Cares and Sorrows worn,Then Age and Want, Oh! ill match’d pairShew man was made to mourn.A few seem favourites of Fate,In Pleasure’s lap carest;Yet, think not all the Rich and GreatAre likewise truly blest.But Oh ! what crouds in ever}' land,Are wretched and forlorn,Thro’ weary life this lesson learn,That man was make to mourn.Many and sharp the num’rous ills,Inwoven with our frame!More pointed still we make ourselves,Regret, Remorse, and Shame !And man, whose heav’n-erected face^The smiles of love adorn,Man’s inhumanity to Man,Makes countless thousands mourn..See yonder poor, o’erlahour’d weight,So abject, mean, and vile,Who begs a brother of the earthTo give him leave to toil;And see his lordly Jellow-worm,The poor Petition spurn,Unmindful, tho’ a weeping wife.And helpless offspring mourn.If I’m design’d yon lordling’s slave,By Nature’s law design’d,Why was an independant wishE’er planted in my mind ?If not, why am I subject toHis cruelty, or scorn ?Or why has man the will and pow'rTo make his fellow mourn ?Yet, let not this too-much, my Son,Disturb thy youthful breast:This partial view of human-kindIs surely not the last!The poor, oppressed, honest man,Mad never, sure, been born,24Had there not been some recompenceTo comfort those that mourn.O Death ! the poor man’s dearest friend,The kindest and the best!Welcome the hour my aged limbsAre laid with thee at rest!The Great, the Wealthy, fear thy blow,From pomp and pleasure torn ;But Oh ! a blest relief to thoseThat weary-laden mourn.F 1 N I &■ -1V',