' OF SCOTLA^T)ft "7'f? DANIEL DANCER Esq.,PRICE ONE PENNY.THE LIFE OFTHE REMARKABLE MISER.A Selection of&mu0in0 auU JlnetnutibccojipkisiNg thk@ WONDERS OF NATURE AND ART,' WITHMEMOIRS AND ANECDOTES^inguliir & iScrfutric ^ljRrafter0, ^HISTORICAL FACTS, ANDGEOGRAPHICAL DESCRIPTIONS, &c„ &c„ ''S^Collected from Costly and Hare Works,^BY JOHN NICHOLSON;PRINTER AND PUBLISHER,KIRKCUDBRIGHT,Daniel Dancer was born in 1716, in thehamlet of Weald, in the neighbourhood oId arrow. He was descended from a rcspectable yeoman’s family in the county of Hertford, and his grandfather appears to have beersettled at Bushy, near Watford, where he followed the profitable occupations of mealmaiand maltster. His father who residedStone-causeway, on Harrow Weald Commonpossessed considerable property in land, whiclhe farmed himself: he had four children, threeatsons and a daughter ; and on his death, 111736, his eldest son Daniel succeeded to theestate.It has somewhere been asserted, that there!never yet were three successive generations o:misers ; the Dancers, however, form a specialexception to this rule, for it is an undoubtedfact, that the grandfather, the father, and allthe children, were strictly entitled to this ap¬pellation ! Their characters, however, wereof a peculiar cast; for it was the ambition andthe occupation of their lives, not to accumu¬late for the sake of their offspring, or relatives,or posterity, or themselves, but from the samprinciple that the magpie is said to steal gol—merely for the pleasure of hiding it!The contemporaries of the grandfather annow no more, and but few traditional anec3' dotes liave been banded down concerning him.But Daniel was satisfied that his father hadconcealed money to the amount of more thanone thousand five hundred pounds in the pre¬mises occupied by him, and this occasioned nolittle uneasiness ; but it did not proceed fromI the fear of its not being discovered, but from*,the dread least his brothers might find it,and not deliver it to him. This rendered himcautious of mentioning his suspicions; and itwas full two years before any part of it waspound. At length, on removing an old gate,(about two hundred pounds in gold and bankmotes, which had been concealed between two(pewter dishes under one of the posts, were’fortunately disinterred. The rest was neveri*heard of.I It was in the paternal mansion at Astmiss,ut Causeway-gate, on Harrow Wcald Com-hnon, that Daniel was doomed by the fates to(spend the whole of his life, which seems tohave been one uninterrupted dreary blank.—JHis wretched habitation was surrounded byabout eighty acres of his own rich meadowland, with some of the finest oak timber in theBeingdom upon it; and he possessed an adjoin¬ing farm, called Waldos; the whole of theannual value of about two hundred andfifty pounds per annum, if properly culti¬vated. But cultivation was so expensive,and so Daniel permitted grass only to grow4there ; indeed, in so neglected a state was tlieplace for many years, that the house was en¬tirely surrounded by trees, the fields choakedup with underwood, and the hedges of suchan amazing height as wholly to exclude theprospect of mankind, and create a drearygloom all around.Dancer’s house exhibited a complete pictureof misery and desolation. Among other oddcircumstances, a tree had actually pushed its |top through the roof, and contributed not a ]little, by means of its branches, to'sheltcr thewretched inhabitants from the inclemency ofthe weather.Dancer had a sister, who lived with himtill her death, and whose disposition exactlycorresponded with his own. The fare of thissaving couple was invariably the same. On aSunday they boiled a sticking of beef, withfourteen hard dumplings which always lastedduring the whole week; an arrangement whichno consideration could scarcely induce themto alter, excepting through some circumstan¬ces like the following. Dancer accustomedhimself to wander over the common in searchof any stray locks of wool, cast-horse shoes, oldiron, or pieces of paper, and even to collectthe dung of sheep under the hedges. In oneof these perambulations, he found a sheepwhich had died fom natural disease; thisprize he instantly threw over his shoulder and •:5carried Lome, when after beii g skinned andcut up. Miss Dancer made it into a numberof pies, of which they were extremely frugalwhile they lasted.Had not Mis Dancer lived in an enlighten-i cd age, she would most certainly have run therisk of incurring the penalties inflicted onthose unhappy wretches accused of witchcraft;i so perfectly d.d her appearance agree with theideas attached to a witch, bhe seldom stirredout of her miserable hut, except when alarm¬ed by the cries of huntsmen and hounds : on; such occasions she used to sally forth, armed:> with a pitchfork, with which she endeavoured! to repel the progress of these intruders on herbrothers grounds; and her appearance wasI rather that of a moving mass of rags, than .of| a human being.During her last illness, her brother was fre-f quently requested to procure medical assist-ji ance for her. His reply was, “ Why should! I waste my money, in wickedly endeavouringI to counteract the will of Providence ? If thex old girl’s time is come, the nostrums of ali the»: quacks in Christendom cannot save her: andsj she may as well die now as at any future pe-S riod.” Of lawyers and physicians he enter-I tained a very unfavourable opinion. Econer! than have any connexion with a lawyer, he| s:.id, he would deal with the devil : and to usei his own expression, “ All the gentlemen of6the faculty arc medical tinkers, who, in en¬deavouring to patch up one blemish in thehuman frame, never fail to make ten.” Hethought Lellows-makcrs, undertakers, andtrunk makers very extravagant fellows, on ac¬count of their great waste of nails, which pro¬fusion he thought unnecessary.The only food he offered his sister during Iher indisposition was her usual allowance of |cold dumpling and sticking of beef, accom- 1panied with the affectionate declaration, thatif she did not like it she might go without.The kindness of Lady Tempest and CaptainHolmes, who inherited the whole of MrDancer’s fortune, made ample amends for her *brother’s inhumanity, and soothed her dyingmoments. In eon; id.ration of her tenderness,Miss Dane:!' intended to have left Lady JTempest the property she possessed, to the jamount of 2000/ he, however, expired he-fore she signed hc: will, which she had direct¬ed to be made, on ahich her t\o other hr .flierswho were equally celebrated for parsimony, iput in their c'.aim for a sha c of her fortune. ITo this proposal Daniel refred to accede, anda law suit ensued ; the resu t was. that he re¬covered 1010/. of his sister’s property, as the ■price of her board for thirty years, at 3.7. perannum, and ICO/, for the two last years, in iwhich he declared she had done nothing buteat and lie in bed. What remained after7these deductions was equally divided amongthe three brothers.Although Daniel never evinced any affec¬tion for his sister, he determined to bury heriii such a manner as should not disgrace theJamil;/. He accordingly contracted with anundertaker, who agreed to take timber in re¬turn for a coffin, as Mr Dancer had no ideaof using \\\q precious metals as a vehicle ofexchange : lie, however, could not be prevail¬ed upon to purchase proper mourning tor him¬self : yet, in consequence of the entreaty ofhis neighbours, he unbound the haybands withwhich his legs were usually covered, and drewon a second hand pair of black worsted stock¬ings. His coat was of a whitish-brown colour ;his waistcoat had been black about the middleot the last century ; and the immed’ate cover¬ing to his head, which seemed to have beentaken from Mr Klwes’s wigger:jjixn\ to havedescended to Daniel as an heir loom, gave agrotesque appearance to the person of a chiefmourner, but too well calculated to provokemirth. This, indeed, was increased by theslipping of his horse’s girth at the place ofburial; in consequence of which the rider, tothe great diversion of some of the Harrow'boys who attended, was precipitated into thegrave !After the death of his sister, and near theclose of his own life, finding himself lone-8SQUie, he hired a man for his companion, who |was a proper counterpart of himself. This U|servant, Griffiths, had. by severe parsimony, |contrived to accumulate 500/. out of wages |winch had never exceeded 10/. per annum.—At the time he hired with Mr Dancer, hewas about sixty years of age, and his wageswere eighteen pence per week. He assistedJiis master in picking up bones, &c., accord¬ingly, when they went out, they took differentroads for the same purpose; but Griffithshaving a taste for strong beer would tipple alittle, which was the cause of much alterca¬tion at night, when he returned home to Insmaster.From a principle of rigid economy, MrDancer rarely washed his hands and lace ; andwhen he did, it was always without the as¬sistance of either soap cr towel. Dispensingwith those articles of expensive luxury, heused, when the sun shone, to repair to aneighbouring pool, and alter washing him sellwith sard, he would lie on liis ba k in thesua to dry himself. His tattered garments,which were scarcely sufficient to cover hisnakedness, were kept together by a strong hay-hand, which he fastened round his body. Hisstockings were so patched, that not a vestigeof the original could be perceived, and in coldand dirty weather he wound about, his legsropes of hay, so that his whole figure present-9cd the most striking picture of misery thatcan possibly be conceived.At one period of his life, he used annuallyto purchase two shirts, but for several yearspreceding his death, he allowed himself onlyone. This he bought at some old clothes shop,and seldom exceeded half-a-crown in price.—fter coming into his possession, it never un¬derwent the operations of washing or mend-ng, nor did he ever change it till it droppedrom his back in rags. In making one of thesemrehases, he was involved in an affair whichgave him no small trouble and uneasiness.—jideing desired by the mistress of a shop, tokvhich he went to purchase an ohl shirt, to[mention his price, he told her, “ as much un-jder three shillings as possible.” A shirt wasjaccordinglyproduced, for which, after bargain-img a long tan\ Dancer, as he declared, agreedat > give two sinkings and ninepence. He gavefine woman three shillings, and waited for thechange, but to his mortification and surprise*she refused to give any, positively asserting,fehat he had agreed to take the shirt at thenice she had received. Remonstrances were/ain, and to suffer such tu diminution of hisnoperty without endeavouring to obtain re-iress, he regarded as criminal. He thereforeiummoned the Woman to a court of conscience,md to support his claim made two journeys toown ; but after a full hearing, the poor man  - • 'was not only nonsuited, but obliged to paytbe coasts of the court, to the enormous a-mount of five shillings. To add to his vex¬ation, his two journeys had put him to theadditional expence of three-pence more: forit can scarcely be supposed that a man of hisage and wealth could travel on foot fifteenmiles, and back again on the same day, with¬out the extraordinary indulgence of a penny¬worth of bread and cheese, and a half-penny¬worth of small beer. At this time Mr Dancerw?as in the possession of property to the a-monnt of 3000/ a year!When his sister died, he had a jtair ofsheets on his bed, which he would never sufferto.be removed : but lay in them till they wereworn out. He would not allow his house tobe cleaned, and the room in which he livedwas nearly filled with sticks he had collectedfrom his neighbours’ hedges. He was formany years his own cobler, and the last pairof shoes he wore had become so large andponderous, from the frequent soles and cover¬ings they had received, that they rather re¬sembled hog-troughs than shoes.Such was his attention to parsimony in everything that could in the smallest degree con¬tribute to his advantage, that when obliged torelieve the wants of nature, he would ratherwalk two miles than not assist in manuringhis own lands. He gathered in his ramblesall the holies he met with, and rather than re¬turn home empty-handed, he would load him¬self with the dung of the cattle on the com¬mon. The hones he first picked himself, andthen broke in pieces for his dog Boh. Hisconduct to this favourite, whom he always cal¬led, “ Bob my child,” affords a striking in¬stance of human inconsistency; for while hehimself would swill the,pot-liquor of LadyTempest’s kitchen, to save the expence of apenny. Boh was allowed a pint of milk daily.His affection for this domestic was, neverthe¬less, overpowered by a consideration which,with him, carried irresistible weight. Com¬plaints were made to him that Bob had wor¬ried some sheep : on this he took the dog toa blacksmith’s shop, where he ordered all histeeth to he broken off short, to prevent a re¬petition of the mischief, for which he mightprobably have been compelled to make com¬pensation.Snuff' was a luxury7 in which it is natural tosuppose that he never indulged; yet he al¬ways begged a pinch from those who did.—-In this manner he used in about a month tofill a snuff-box, which he always carried in hispocket. He then exchanged its contents at achandler’s shop for a farthing candle, whichwas made to last till he had again filled hisbox, as he never suffered any light in hishouse, except when he was going to bed. Ahor.ce wMch he kept for soir.e time was neveiallowed more than two shoes, for his fore-feetto shoe the hind ieet, being, in his opinion- an unnecessary expense. -His wealth was thus productive of nootheienjoyment than ihe *onsid and unavailing onearising from the contemplat on of riches whiclhe did not dare to enjoy; on the contrary i:seemed to carry a curse along with it, and tcengender a variety of calamities to the wretch¬ed possessor. During the time he lived aloneafter the death of his sister (for he never couhprevail upon himself to he at the expense oa wife,) the temptation to rob the old miseiproved irresistible to those who lived by ra¬pine ; indeed there is some reason to supposethat they contemplated the plunder of a manof his penurious disposition with but littkcompunction or remorse: his avarice, if not arexcuse for, at least seemed an alleviation oihe crime. He was, accordingly, robbed fre-qi ently, and, if report be true—for this wasa ad ject on which he did not choose to enlarge—to a very considerable amount. Hehow ever,* once confessed, with tears in his eyesto his niece, who had seen whole and halfpecks of halfpence on his staircase, that “ah— all was gone.!”On these occasions it was customary withthe house-breakers to terrify him into a dis¬covery'of his more valuable properly; and13they are said to have actually suspended himby the neck several times, before they couldextort a confession where it was deposited.At length, Daniel bethought himself of amode of preventing their visits, and punishingtheir temerity. After fastening his rottendoor on the inside, in the best manner pos¬sible, he determined never to enter the houseagain through that aperture. Accordinglyhe procured a short ladder, always ascendedby its means, and pulling it in after him, tookrefuge in his miserable apartment, where heliterally resembled Kobinson Crusoe shut upin his little garrison.But not deeming this sufficient, he actuallydug a hole, or, what military men term a troucle loup, before the entrance, which he cover¬ed over with loose straw, in such a manner asto secure the principal, approach towards hiscastle, and entrap any incautious assailant,who might have the temerity to invade hisdarling property. After exhibiting this spe¬cimen of his talents as an engineer, the mo¬dern Midas seems to have slept in safety a-midst his gold.80011 after the robbery, the thieves wereapprehended, and as Mr Dancer’s presence attheir trial became necessary, Lady Tempestbegged his acceptance of a clean shirt, thathe might make a decent appearance; but hedeclined the generous offer, assuring her that14he had anew one on, which lie had boughtonly three weeks before, when it was quiteclean. ■ \This accident probably made some impres¬sion, and rendered him desirous of placing hismoney in a more secure situation than hisown wretched hut. Repairing not long afterto London, to invest 2000/. in the funds, agentleman who met him near the Exchange,mistaking him for a beggar, put a penny intohis hand. Though somewhat surprised atfirst, yet recollecting that every little helps,he put the money into his pocket and con¬tinued his walkLady Tempest who was the only personthat had any influence on the mind of this un¬happy man, employed every possible persua¬sion and device to induce him to partake ofthose conveniences and comforts which are sogratifying to others, but without effect. Oneday she, however, prevailed on him to pur¬chase a hat of a Jew1 fora shilling, that whichhe wore having been in constant use forthirteen years. She called upon him thenext day, and to her surprise found that hestill continued to wear the old one. On en¬quiring the reason, he, after much solicitation,informed her, that his old servant Griffiths,had given him sixpence profit for his bargain.The same lady, knowing that he was fondof trout stewed in claret, once sent him some15as a present. The stew had become congeal¬ed during the night, and though he durst noteat till it was warmed for fear cf the tooth¬ache, to which he was subject, yet he couldnot on any account afford the expence of af re. The ingenious method by which he con¬trived to relieve himself from this embarrass¬ment, is certainly worthy cf admiration.—! The weather was frosty, and at such timeshe always lay in bed to keep himself warm,and he conceived that a similar mode of pro¬ceeding would produce the same effect on thefish. Ide accordingly directed it o be put,with the sauce, into a pewter plate, ud cover¬ing it with another, placed them under hisbody, and sat upoii them till the contentswere sufficiently warmed IThe latter part of Daniel’s life was meli¬orated by the humanity and good-nature ofhis worthy and respectable neighbour. LadyTempest presented him with abed, and, atlength actually prevailed upon him to throwaw ay the sack in which he had slept for years.Being a sworn enemy to extravagencc, he was|ji careful to excess of the property of another.He could scarcely be prevailed upon, it is said,to touch a joint. He delighted in fragmentsand crusts; and, while indulging himself inthese luxuries, muttered execrations againstthe devouring gluttony of modern times. Healso evinced, on this occasion, a considerable>.16portion of that low cunning so common io il¬literate persons ; for he pretended to pay hisaddresses to the cook, in an honourable way,with a view of keeping in favour with her ;/ and, when it was evident that she had dis¬covered his intent'ons to proceed from whatis termed cupboard love, he endeavoured toimpose on her a second time, by promising toremember her in his will!To his brother who kept sheep on thesa ne common, and who rivalled Daniel him¬self in penury, and almost in wealth, he al¬ways manifested the utmost aversion ; to hisniece, however, he once presented a guineaon the birth of a daughter; but even here hemade a hard bargain, for the gift was emo¬tional—she was either to name the childNancy, after his mother, or forfeit the wholesum.To the honour of Mr Dancer, however, hepossessed one virtue, and that, too, not a \crycommon one in this world—gratitude. Ac¬cordingly, some time betore his death, hemade a will, and surrendered his copyhold es¬tates to the disposition he had made ; thewill and surrender were both in favour of hisbenefactress, Lady Tempest.The evening before his death, he dispatch¬ed a messenger in whom he cou d confide, re¬questing to sec her ladyship, and on being gra¬tified in this particular, he expressed great sa-17tisfaction. Finding himself a little better,his attachment to the only thing he respectedmore than that lady recurred, and that toowith such violence, that, although his handwas scarcely able to perform its functions, hetook hold of his will, which he had intendedto have presented to her, and replaced it oncemore in his bosom.Next morning, however, perceiving his endto be fist approaching, he actually confidedthis paper according to his original determi¬nation ; and, having now resigned, as it were,all title to that adored wealth, which he con¬sidered as his '• heart’s blood,” he soon gaveup the ghost, and was buried in the church¬yard of his parish (Harrow,)by his own par¬ticular desire.Thus lived, and thus died, at the age ofseventy-eight, on September 4, 1794, DanielDancei\ a true disciple of the Elwes school,the rigours of which he practised to a fargreater degree than even his master. In con¬sequence of a very common mistake of themeans for the end, he deprived himself notonly of what are termed the pleasures, buteven of the necessaries of life. At times, how¬ever; he would lament that he did not make abetter use of his riches ; and was once heardto regret that he had not, according to hisoriginal intentions, set up a whiskey, which,in his opinion, was the v.eplus ultra of gen-18tility. On another occasion, upon receivingtwo-pence for a pint of beer from a deputycommissary, who was about to pay him fivehundred pounds for hay during the war, andhad mistaken him for one of’Squire Dancer’sservants, he bridled up, and said that he in¬tended scon to become a gentleman himself!Had it not been for the perpetual exerciseof his master-passion, Daniel Dancer mighthave been a credit to his family, and an orna¬ment to society. He possessed the seeds ofmany admirable qualities, and exhibited fre¬quent marks of strong, nervous, good sense ;unpolished, indeed, by commerce with theworld, but at the same time unsophisticatedby its vices or its follies.Doth he and his father, during a series of morethan sixty years, had allowed themselves twojubilee days in the year, these were their festi¬vals, and they enjoyed them, for there was goodcheer to be had without expense. The periodsalluded to occurred in April and October, at SirJohn Kushout’s court-baron for the manor ofB arrow. As head tenants, they constantlyattended; and it was observed by all thesuitors, that, if the Dancers starved at home,they ate most voraciously abroad. On theseoccasions Daniel distinguished himself by hisdroll sayings; and, whenever any attemptwas made to ridicule, burlesque, or ] ars a jokeupon him (which was invariably the case,) thewit and eccentricity of his replies soon put hisantagonist to silence.No man had more of the true Englishmanabout him, at least so far as concerned the de¬fence of his rights and privileges, than MrDancer. He was a second Hampden in thisrespect; for. during the whole of his life, hewould never permit anyinfringementson Har¬row Weald Common. Whenever an en¬croachment took place, without any respecito rank or fortune, Daniel instantly headedi the villagers, and abated the nuisance. Thismade him extremely popular.Miserable and wretched as his dispositionwas, he was not accused of having ever com¬mitted any act of injustice; on the con¬trary, he was sometimes known to have assist¬ed those whose style of living and appearancewere infinitely superior to his own.He had no farming business but duringthe time of mowing his meadows. ’1 hat ofhis hay harvest, then, seems to have been the, only period of the year in which his mind wasoccupied by business; and this, too was the•sole time in which jollity appeared to be fa¬miliar to his mansion ; for he seemed then tohave entirely divested himself of his naturalcharacter. No gentleman in the neighbour¬hood gave his mowers better beer, or in great-Icr quantity, than Daniel did on this occasion.It was brought from a neighbouring brew-20house ; for at this time only was the beverageof our Saxon forefathers to be found withinhis walls. Notwithstanding the miserable as¬pect of the house and its inhabitants, bothbrother and sister (the former especially, whowas nearly naked.) yet on Daniel’s death notonly plate, table linen, and twenty four pairgood sheets, but clothes of every description,were found locked up in chests. The femaleattire, of which there was a correct inventory.In the brother’s own hand writing, was valuedat seventeen pounds. He also, among otherapparel, had some excellent boots; hut he pre¬ferred to case his legs with the still warmercovering of hay bands.Although he posscsseel two ancient buttolerably good bedsteads, with the proper fur¬niture, originally belonging, as well as thehouse, to the Kdlins, a family of some pro¬perty, yet they were carefully secluded fromthe light of heaven, and both he and his sisterslept on sacks stuffed with hay, and coveredwith a horse rug.During the last twenty years, Daniel’s houseis said to have been entered at least fourteentimes by thieves, and the amount of his lossesis calculated at 2,500/. As the lower j artwas in such a ruinous state as to admit a per¬son with ea?e, it was recommended to himto get it repaired; hut he replied, “ that this^would be only throwing away more money21i ^ ■for then they would get in at the windows.”In order to employ the attention of themarauders, until he should escape to his hid¬ing place, he was accustomed to strew7 thej ground door with farthings and sixpencesf wrapped up in paper.J)ancer, about six years before his death,during a hot summer's day, was observed bya neighbour very assiduously employed in'throwing water from a pool, by means of ai i: frying-pan, on the surrounding meadow whichhappened-to be burnt up. On being question-■ edas to the object of bis labours, he observed,‘ that he wanted a hit of nice fresh grass forhis old horse, for hay being then very dear, apoor body ought to be sparing of it.” TheI same person, returning in three or four hours1 afterwards found the old man in tears, and,| on inquiring the cause was informed, “thatlie had worked with the frying pan until hewas tired, when falling as'eep on the grass,some rogue had stolen a pocket-book from himcontaining three hundred and fifty pounds inI bank notes, which he had received the day be¬fore for some ricks of hay that he sold ”Having been once reluctantly bound overby a magistrate to prosecute a horse stealer atAylesbury assizes, he set out with a respec¬table neighbour, who unde rtook to accompanyhim. Himself and his horse, on this occasionexhibited a grotesque appearance, for the—22movements of the latter were regulated by ahalter instead of a bridle, while a sack fasten¬ed round him served instead of a saddle : asfor shoes, this was a luxury that Daniel’sRosinante had never been accustomed to.On their arrival at Aylesbury, having stop¬ped at an inn of decent appearance, Danceraddressed his companion in the followingmanner:—“Pray, 8ir, do you go into thehouse, order what you please, and live like agentleman, I will settle for it readily ; but asfor myself I must go on in my old way.” H caccordingly did so, for he bought a penny¬worth of bread for himself, slept under hishorse’s manger, and paid fifteen shillings, be¬ing the amount of his companion’s bill, withthe utmost cheerfulness.His house, which at his death devolved toCaptain Holmes, was a most miserable build¬ing, not having been repaired for half a cen¬tury: though poor in external appearance, itwas, however, discovered to be very rich with¬in ; at different times. Captain Holmes foundbarge bowels filled with guineas and half-guineas, and parcels of bank-notes stuffed un¬der the covers of old chairs. Large jugs ofdollars and shillings were found in the stable.At the dead of night Mr Dancer was knownto go to this place, but for what purpose noone could tell. It afterwards appeared thathe used to rob one jug, to add to a bowl which23was found buried in the kitchen.It took many weeks to explore the contentsof his dwelling. One of his richest escruitoirswas the dung-heap in the cow-house, whichcontained near 2,500/ and in an old jacketcarefully tied, and strongly nailed down tothe manger, was the sum of 500/. in gold andbank-notes In the chimney was about 200/.and an old tea pot contained bank-notes tothe value of,G00/.; it was covered with apiece of paper, whimsically inscribed, “ not tobe hastily looked over.”There was likewise found some hundredweight of waste paper, the collection of halfa century, and two or three tons of old iron,consisting of nails, horse-shoes, &c., which hehad picked up. On the ground floor severalpieces of foreign gold and silver were dug upand some coins, among which were a crownand a shilling of the English commonwealth.He left in landed property to the amountof 500/. per annum to Lady Tempest, andafter her death to her only son, Sir HenryTempest, of Stoke-end, Hereford : in shortthe whole property which he left to LadyTempest and her brother Captain Holmes,was about 3003/. per annum. 1 .ady Tempestdid not long enjoy the accession of wealth,which she acquired by this miser’s death ; forshe contracted an illness during her attend-ance upon Mr Dancer in his last hours, thatin a few months terminated her own life, inJanuary, 171).'.Notwithstanding his great penury, M.Dancer possessed some praiseworthy qualities,He observed the most rigid integrity in evertransaction , and v,as never averse to assisthose of whom he entertained a good opinionand whose embarrassments required atempo-irary aid ; but, at the same time, it must bconfessed, he did not lend his money withouexpecting the usual interest. His servantGriffiths, always fared much better than hisjmaster, having been indulged with whateverhe chose to eat and drink, besides a good andcomfortable bed to sleep bn. The latter MrDancer deemed an unnecessary luxury, yethis allowing his servant that which he deniedhimself, renders his character still more won¬derful and unaccountable.Dancer left two brothers, Henry and Ham-mon, both possessed of property, and both.sen uine. misers.