THECOMICAL TRICKSOFLOTHIAN TOOT.IN FIVE PARTS.WHEREIN IS CONTAINED\ Collection of Diverting Exploits, doneby him, both in Scotland and England.THECOMICAL TRICKSOFLOTHIAN TOM.This Thomas Black, vulgarly called Loth¬ian Tom, because he was of that country,was born about four miles from Edinburgh,his father being a wealthy farmer, gavehim a good education, which he was veryawkward in receiving, being a very wildmischievous boy.When he was about ten years of age,he was almost killed by the stroke of ahorse’s foot, which his father had, whohad a trick of kicking at every personthat came behind him. But when Tomgot heal of the dreadful wound, whereofmany thought he would have died, to beeven with the horse, he gets a clog, orpiece of tree which was full of woodenpins, such a tiling as the shoemakers useto soften their leather on, and with a ropehe tied it to the couple-bank in the stabledirectly opposite to the horse’s tail, then3gets on the bank, and gives it a swing,so that the pikes in the end of it, camewith full drive against the horses’s back¬side, which made him fling, and the more,he flung and struck at it, it reboundedback and struck him again; the battlelasted with great fury for a long time,which was good fun for Tom, until hisfather hearing some noise in the stable,came in to know the matter, and wassurprised to see the poor animal tanninghis own hide, with his legs all cut andbloody! he cut the rope and the battlewas ended; but the poor horse wouldnever afterwards kick at any thing thatcame behind him.It happened one day that Tom wentla-fishing, and brought home a few smallIfish, which his grandmother’s cat snaptiup in the dark. So Tom to have justicepf the cat for so doing, catches her, anduts her into a little tub, or cog, thenets her adrift in a small mill-dam, order-her to go a fishing for herself; thenets two or three dogs upon her, and aost terrible sea fight ensued as everas seen on fit'sh water; for if anyf the dogs, when attempting to boarder, set up their noses, baudrins came fly-hg to that place, to repulse them with heiIlaws; then the vessel was like to beaverset by the weight of heiself, so shehad to flee to the other, and finding the‘same there, from thence to the middle,where she sat mewing, always turningherself about, co nbing their noses withher foot. The old woman being informedof the dangerous situation of her dearlybeloved cat, came running with a longpole to beat off the dogs and haul herashore. What now, says Tom, if you begoing to take part with my enemies, youshall have part of their reward j then givesthe old woman such a push that she tumb¬led into the dam over head and ears,beside her beloved cat, and would un¬doubtedly have perished in the water hadnot one cf the people who was there look¬ing at the diversion, came to her relief.After this Tom was sent to school, tokeep his hand out of an ill turn ; andhaving an old cankered, crab-wilted fellowfor his dominie, they were always at vari¬ance; for if Tom had got his whips, whichhe often deserved, he was sure to be re¬venged upon his master again for it. SoTom perceiving his master had a close-stool in a little closet within the school,where he went and eased himself whenneed was. Tom gets a penny-worth ofgun-powder, and sprinkled it on theground directly before the seat, and lays vIta little of it along in a train to the fire¬side ; then perceiving when his masterwent into it, and as he was loosing downhis breeches, sets fire to the train, whichblew it all about his master’s backsidewhich scorched him terribly, besides thefright for which Tom was severely whipt.Yet, in a little after, he began to studyrevenge on his master. 'So it happened one day as Tom was inthe master’s house, his wife was stoop¬ing into a big meal-barrel, for to bring outsome meal *, there he takes her by the feetand coups her up into the barrel with herhead down and her bare b—side upper¬most; then runs into the school, crying0 master! master! the de’iPs looking outo’ your meal-stand ; wi’ a fat face, and ablack ill-far’d mouth ; yon’s just AuldNick if he be living. So the master ranout with all speed he could, for to seeir what it was; and found it to be his own| wife, speechless, and almost smothered| to death; but as she could not tell who!tl did it, Tom got clear off; yet he was not| satisfied without some more vengeance on{the old fellow: and knowing his master; had a fashion, when he was going to whip1 the boys if they would not loose theirilbreeches willingly, he drew his knife andrcut them through the waistband behind :6So To«i goes to a butcher, and gets araw pudding, and fills it with blood andwater, and puts it within the waistbandof his breeches, then goes to school thenext day, and as his master was sittingwith his back to the fire, Toni lights apiece of paper, and sets his wig in a low,which burnt for some time unpen eived,until the flames came fiiz^ing about hisears; he first put out the flames bytramping on the wig, and being informedthat Tom did it, flies to him in a rage,ordering him to loose his breeches, butTom told him lie was never so mad.—Then he drew his knife, whips poor Tomover his knee, and with a great strugglecuts the waistband of his breeches; butthro’ pudding and all, so that the bloodgushed out, and Tom cried out MurderMurder! Murder! and down he fell.The poor Dominie ran out of the schoolcrying and wringing his hands. Wordflew about that he was sacked by the Do¬minie, which made the people come run¬ning from several parts ot the count! y,round about to see how it was'. but uponsearching him, they found the emptypudding, which soon discovered all thefraud. Then two men had to get horses,and ride after the poor Dominie, whohad by this time got two or three mile?7away ; and when he saw them riding afterhim, crying to stop and come back again,he ran the faster, until he could runno more, but fell down on the road, andprayed to them to let him go, for if he wastaken back, he was sure to be handed:and would not be persuaded that Tomwas alive, until they forced him back,and he saw him. Hut he would be Tom’steachet no longer j so Tom’s father hadto seek another master for him.PART II.There was a young woman servantto Tom’s father, whom Tom had offendedIby some of his tricks, and she to be upwith Tom again, one night spread a hand¬ful of short nettles in his bed, betweenI the sheets which stung his legs and thighs3 so much, that he was obliged to quit his1 bed for some part of the night; for suchi he was resolved to be revenged, wheneveris a proper opportunity offered. It happen-41 ed ;n a few days after, that she was in-ivited to a wedding, where the dancingland diversion induced her to stay all night;Jiand on coming home on the morning, she>fell a washing some clothes. But being8fatigued with her night’s diversion andfor want of rest, fell fast asleep with herhands extended in the tub, and standingon her feet, with her belly leaning on thetub ; lom perceiving this, slips her pet¬ticoat and smoke over her head, facingthe high way; several people passing by,-while she continued in this posture, semeof them were diverted with the sight, andothers were ashamed at it; but a poorcadger bad the misfortune to be comingthat way at the time, and his horse takingfright at this unusual* sight, threw off hiscreels, and broke the poor man’s eggsail to smash; which so enraged him thathe lashed her buttucks with his whip, insuch an unmerciful manner, that with thesmart and shame together she had not theleast inclination to sleep for the remainingpart of the day.Tom being grown up to the years and |>age of a man, thought himself wiser aad|slyer than his father: and there wereseveral things about the house which he >iiked better than to work; so he turned into be a dealer amongst brutes, a couper tof horses and cows, &c., and even wetkware, amongst the brewers, and brandy ..shops, until he cowped himself to the ^toom halter, aud then his parents would >9supply him no more. He knew his grand¬mother had plenty of money, but shewould give him none; but the old womanhad a good black cow of her own, whichTom went to the fields one evening andil catches, and takes her to an old waste1 house, which stood at a distance from anyi other, and there he kept her two or threei days giving her meat and drink at nightf when it was dark, and made the oldwoman believe somebody had stolen thei cow for their winter’s mart, which wasigrief enough to the old woman, for theloss of her cow. However she employsrJTom to go to a fair that was near by,■ and buy her another : she gives him threeimpounds which Tom accepts of very thank-lifully, and promises to bay her one as likeilthe other as possibly he could get; then hestakes a piece of chalk, and brays it asnsmall as meal, and steeps it in a littleI'water and therewith rubs over the cow’sface and back, which made her baithibrucket and rigget. So Tom in theenorning, takes the cow to a public houseiwithin a little of the fair, and left her tillche fair was over, and then drives herinome before him; and as soon as theyiCarae home, the cow began to rout as she•used to do, which made the old woman(0 rejoice, thinking it was her own cowf:10but, when she saw her white, sighed andsaid, Alas ! thou’ll ne’er be like the kindlybrute, my Black Lady, and yet ye rout aslike her as ony ever I did hear. But saysTom to himself, ’tis a mercy you kno.y notwhat she says, or all would be wrong- yet.So in two or three days the old womanput forth her braw riggetcow in the morn¬ing with the rest other neighbour's cattle,but it came on a sore day of heavy rain,which washed away all the white from herface and back ; so the old woman’s BlackLady came home at night, and her riggetcow went away with the shower, and wasnever heard of. But Tom’s father havingsome suspicion, and looking narrowly intothe cow’s face found some of the chalk notwashed away, and then he gave poor Toma hearty beating, and sent him away toseek hisfortunewith a skin fullofsore bones.JiCltiiItC!'T1i?roHo’c11!'irt-PART III.Tom being now turned to his own .shifts, considered with himself how to raisea little more money ; and so gets a string ,as near as he could guess to be the lengthof his mother, and to Edinburgh he goes, .to a wright who was acquainted with his11I father and mother. The wright askedI him how he did; he answered him, Veryj soberly, he had lost a good dutiful motherlast nig-ht, and there’s a measure for the! coffin. Tom went out and staid for sometime, and then comes in again, and tellsthe wright he did not know what to do,for his father had ordered him to getmoney from such a man, whom he named,and he that day was (gone out of town.—The wright asked him how much hewanted? To which he answered, a guineaand a-half. Then Tom gave him strictorders to be out next day against eleveno’clock with the coffin, and he should gethis money altogether. So Tom set off totn ale-house with the money, and lived/ell while it lasted. Next morning theright and his two lads went out with theoffin ; and as they were "'oirng into theouse they met Tom’s mother, who askedl«the master how he did, and where he wasoing with that fine coffin ? Not knowingell what to say, being surprised to seeer alive, at last he told her, that her sonrought in the measure the day before,nd had got a guinea and a-half from him,ith which he said he was to buy someecessaries for the funeral. O the rogue!aid she, has he play’d me that? So thevrig'ht got his lent money, and so much12for his trouble, aud had to take back hiscoffin with him again.Tom being short of money, began tothink how he could raise f fresh supply;so he went to the Port amongst the shear¬ers, and there he hired about thirty ofthem, and agreed to give them a wholeweek’s shearing at ten-pence a day, whichwas tw'opence higher than any had gotthat year; this made the poor shearersthink he w'as a very honest, generous andgenteel master, as ever they meet with ;for he took them all into an ale house,and gave them a hearty breakfast. Now,says Tom, when there is so many of youtogether, and perhaps from very differentparts, and being unacquainted with one-another, I do not know but there may besome of you honest men, and some of yourogues; and as you are all to lie in onebarn together, any of you who has somemoney, you’ll be surest to give it to meand I’ll mark it down in my book, withyour names, and what I receive from eachof you, -and you shall have it i 11 againon Saturday night when you receive yourwages. G ! very well goodman, there'smine, take mine, said every one faster thananother. Some gave him five, six, sevenand eight shillings, even all that they hadearn’d thro’ the harvest, which amounted113to near seven pounds sterling1; So Tomhaving got all their money, he goes onwith them till about three miles out oftown, and coming to a held of standingI corn, tho’ somewhat green, yet convenient' for his purpose, as it lay at some distance! from any house; so he made them beginl to workj there, tel ing them he was goingi to order dinner for them, and send hisi own servants to join them. Then hesets off with all the speed he could buttook another road into the town lest theyshould follow and catch him. Now whenthe poeple to whom the corn belonged,iii saw such a band in their field they could1 not understand the meaning of it; so the:l farmer whose corn it was, went off crying;i always, as he ran to them, to stop ; butf they would not, until he began to strikej at them, and they at him, he being inli a great passion, as the corn was not fullyi ripe ; at last, by force of argument, ando other people coming up to them, the poor(shearers were convinced they had got thebite which caused them to go away, sorelamenting their misfortune.Two or three days thereafter, as Tomi was going dowm Canongate in Edinburgh,: he meets one of bis shearers, who knewand kept fast by him, demanded back hismoney, and also satisfaction for the rest.14Whisht, whisht, says Tom and you’ll getyours & something else beside. So Tomtakes him into the jail, and calls for abottle of ale and a dram, then takes thejailor aside, as if he had been going toborrow some money from him ; a»d saysto the jailor, this man is a ^reat thief,I and other two have been in search ofhim these three days, and the other twomen have the warrant with them j so ifyou keep this rogue here till I run andbring them, you shall have a guinea inreward. Yes, says the jailor, go and I’llsecure the rogue for you. So Tom got off,leaving the poor innocent fellow and thejailor struggling together and then setsout for England directly.PART iV.Tom having now left his own nativecountry, went into the county of Nor¬thumberland, where he hired himself toan old miser of a farmer, where he con¬tinued for several years, performing hisduty in his service very well, tho’ some¬times playing tricks on those about him ;but his master had a naughty customhe would allow them no candle at nightto see with when at supper. So Tom one15might sets himself next his master, andas they were all about to fall on, Tomiput his spoon into the heart of the dish,where the crowdy was hottest, and clapsa spoonful into his master’s mouth. A poxon you for a rogue, cried his master, for(my mouth is all burnt. A pox on you fora master, says Tom, for you keep a houseas dark as Purgatory, for as I was goingito my own mouth with the soup, and miss’dthe way, it being so dark, don’t thinkmaster that I am such a big fool as tofeed you, while I have a mouth of my own.So from that night that Pom burnt his^master’s mouth with the hot crowdy, theyialways got a candle to shew them lightlat supper, for his master would feed noiimore in the dark while Tom was present.There was a servant girl in the house,who alwavs when she made the beds, ne-jglected to make Tom’s, and would haveiihim to do it himself. Well then, saysJTom, I have harder work to do, and I'shall do that too. So next day when Tomvwas at the plow, he saw his master com¬bing from the house towards him, he lefti.the horses and the plow standing in the[field, and goes away towards his master.riWho cried, what is wrong? or .is thereiany thing broke v/ith you? No, no saysTom, but I am going home to make my16bed, it has not been made the*e twoweeks and now it is about the time theniaid makes all the rest, so I’ll go, andmake mine too. ^o, no, says his master,go to your plow, and I’ll cause it to bemade every night, Then, says Tom,I’ll plow two or three furrows more, in thetime, so Tom gained his end.One day a butcher came xnd boughta fine fat calf from Tom’s master: andTom laid it on the horse’s neck, beforethe Butcher; when he was gone, nowsays Tom what will you hold master, butI’ll steal the calf from the butcher beforehe goes two miles off? Says his masterI’ll hold a guinea you don’t. Done, saysTom. Into the house he goes, and takesa good shoe of his master’s and runs ano¬ther way across a field, till lie got beforethe Butcher, near the corner of a hedge,where there was an open and turning ofthe way ; here Tom darns himself behindthe hedge, and throws the shoe into themiddle of the high-way; so when theButcher came up riding, with his calfbefore him, Hey, said he to himself,there’s a good shoe! it I knew how toget on my calf again, I would li^ht for itbut what signifies one shoe without itsneighbour ? So on he rides and lets it lie.a®UK17 ' 'om then slips out and takes up the shoeind runs across the fields, until he ^ot>efore the Butcher, at another open ofhedge, about half a mile distant, andhrows out the shoe again on the middleof the road; then up comes the Butchernd seeing it, says to himself; now I shall!have a pair of good shoes for the lifting ;Sand down he comes, lays the calf on theground, and tying his horse to the hedge,runs back thinking to get the other shoe,• in which time, Tom whips up the calfi and shoe, and home he comeshis wager, which his master[j refuse, being so fairly won.i| Butcher, not finding the shoe,to his horse, and missing thenot what to do ; but thinking it had broke■the rope from about its feet, and had runi into the fields, tiie Butcher spent the davf in search of it, amongst the hedges andl ditches, and returned to Tom’s master’sall night, intending to go in search againfor it next day ; and gave them a tediousrelation how he came to lose it by a curs¬ed pair of shoes, which he believed thedevil had dropped in bis way, and takenthe calf and shoes along with him ; buthe was thankful he had left his old horset© carry him home. Next morning Tomset to work, and makes a fine white facedemandingcould not -The poorcame hackcalf, knew18on the calf with chalk and water; thbrings it out and sells it to the butchewhich w?as good diversion to his mastand other servants to see the butcher bhis owm calf again. No sooner wasgone with it, but Tom says, Now, mastwhat will you hold but I’ll steal it frohim again, ere he goes two miles off? Nno, says his master I’ll hold no more bewith you; but I’ll give you a shillingyou do it. Done, says Tom, it shall co:you no more; and away he runs througlthe fields, until he came before the bucher, hard by the place where he stoltotikeci!ftthe calf fr >m him the day before ; ancjsthere he lies down behind the hedge, ane|as the butcher came past, he put his hanon his mouth, and dies haw, baw, lika calf. The butcher hearing this, swearto himself, that there was the calf he had.|lost the dav before: down he comes, andthrows tl e calf on the ground, gets thro’the hedge in all haste, thinking he had nomore to do but to take it up; but as hecame in at one part of the hedge, Tomjumped out at another, and gets the calfon his back ; then goes over the hedgeon the other side, and thro’ the fields hecame safely home, with the calf on hisback, while the poor butcher spent histime and labour in vain, running from19edge to hedge, and hole to hole, seekinghe calf. So the butcher returned to his<liorse again, and finding his other calfrgone, he concluded that it was done bylome invisible spirit, about that spot ofground ; and so went home lamentinghe loss of his calf. When Tom got home'.e washed the white face off the stolenalf, and his master sent the butcherivvord to come and buy another calf, whichle accordingly did a few days after andTom sold him the same calf a third timeand then told him the whole affair as itwas acted, giving him his money again.HSo the butcher got fun for his trouble.PART V.: •;There was an old rich blind woman,I who lived hard by, that had a young girlI her only daughter, whe fell deep in lovewith Tom, and he fell as deep in lovewith the money, but not with the maid.The old woman gave Tom many presents,and mounted him like a gentleman ; buthe used every method to put off’ the mar¬riage, pretended he still wanted some¬thing, which the old woman gave the20money to purchase for him, until he hi.got about thirty pounds of her money aiithen she would delay the marriagelonger. Tom then took the old woma,and girl aside, and made the followirlapology. Madam, said he, I am venwilling to wed with my dear Polly, folshe appears as an angel in my eyes, bij.1 am sorry, very sorry to acquaint youthat 1 am not a ht match for her. Whatj.child, says the old woman, there is ncia fitter match in the whole world for ml,Polly, I did not think your country couh|afford such a clever youth, as what I healof you to be, you shall neither want gok .nor silver, nor a good horse to ride upon .and when 1 die, you shall have my all.() but, says Tom, Madam, that’s not .the thing, the stop is this ; When I was -in Scotland, 1 sot a stroke from a hor-se’s foot, on the bottom of the belly,which has quite disabled me below, that.1 cannot perform a husband’s duty in bed.Then the old woman clapt her hands andfell a crying, ()! if it trad been any im¬pediment but that, but that, but that wofu* that ! which gold and silver cannot pur-1chase, and yet the poorest people, that iscommon beggars, have plenty of it.The old wife & her daughter sat cryingand wringing their hands, and Pom stood21and wept lest he should get no more mo¬ney. (), said Polly, mother, I'll wed himnevertheless, I love him so dearly ! Noyou foolish girl, Laid her mother, would‘you marry a man and die a maid? YouAlon’t know the end of you** creation; itis the enjoyment of a man in bed, thatmakes women to marry, which is a plea-tsure like Paradise, and if you wed thisman you will live and die, as d never feel. it. Hoo, Hoo, says Tom, if 1 had gotI money, 1 needed not been this way tilli now. Money you fool, said the old wo-rman, there’s not such a thing to be goti: for money in all England, Ay, says Tom,I there's a doctor in Newcastle, will make(Ime as able as any other man for ten gui¬neas. Ten guineas, said she, I'll give himjlfifty guineas if he will, but here is twelve,land go to him directly, and see what he:can do, and then come again and wed myI child, or she and I will both die for thysake. Tom having now got twelve gui¬neas more of their money, got all thingsready, and early next morning, set outfor Newcastle, but instead of going therehe came to old Scotland, and left Pollyand her mother to think upon him. Inabout two weeks thereafter, when hewas not like to return, nor so much asany word from him, the old woman and22Polly got a horse, and came to Newcastlein search of him, went thro’ all the doc- stors* shops, asking, if there came a youngman there, about two weeks ago, with abroken — to mend ? Some laughed ather, others were like to kick her out ofdoors; so they had to return, withoutgetting any further intelligence of him.Now, after Tom’s return to Scotland,he got a wife, and took a little farm nearDalkeith, and became a very douse man,for many years, following his old businessthe cooping horses and cows, & feedingveals for slaughter, ami the like. He *went one day to a fair and bought a finecow from an old woman ; but Tom judg¬ed, from the lowness of the price, thatthe cow had certainly some very greatfaults. Tom gives the Wife the otherhearty'bicker of ale, then says he, Gude-wife the money is yours and the cow ismine, ye maun tell me ony wee faults ithas. Indeed says the good wife, she lias naa faut but ane, and if she wanted it, lwad never a parted wi* her. And what’sthat gudewife, said he. Indeed said she,the filthy daft beast sucks ay herseT. Butsays 'Tom, if that be all, I’ll soon cureher of that. O ! can ye do’t, said she if Ihad kent what wad a don’t I wadna soldher. A-well says Tom, I’ll tell you what23to do; take the price I give you just nowland tye it hard and fast in your napkin,and give it to me, through beneath theicow’s warned and I’ll give you the napkinagain ower the cow’s back, and I’ll layimy life for it, that she’ll never suck her-isel in my aught. I wat weel, said she, I’se!do that, an’ there shou’d be witchcraftin’t. So Tom got it thro’ below the cow'swame, he takes out his money, and gavethe wife her napkin over the cow’s back,as he promised, saying, Now, wife, youhave your cow, and I my money, and sheWill never suck herself in my aught, as Itjcold you, O dole! dole! cried the wife,is that your cure? you’ve cheated me,you’ve cheated me.Tom being very scarce of money onel ime when his rent was to pay, and tho’ heivvas well acquainted with the butchers inlEdinburgh, and tried several of them,jyet^none of them would lend him as much,sie w’as known to be such a noted sharper.(So Tom contrived a clever trick, to giveIhem all the bite in general, who had thusefused him. In he comes next day, (forhey had all heaid of the fine calf he w'asi ceding,) and tells one of the butchers; vho dealt with him, that he was going tQbell the fat calf he had at home. Well, sai^24the Batcher, and what will you have forit? Just thirty five shillings, say Tom,—No, says the Butcher, but by what I hearof it, I’ll g’ive you thirty; Na, says Tom,you must remember, that it is not theprice of it, imt you may give me twentyshillings just now and send out your ladto-morrow, and we’ll perhaps agree aboutit. Thus Tom went through ten of themin one day, and got twenty shillings fromeach of them, and kept his speech againstthe law, for whatever they offered him for' his calf he lold them to remember, thatwas not to be the price of it, but give metwenty shillings just now, and 'Send yourlad to-morrow, and perhaps we will agree,was all that passed. So Tom went home:with his ten pounds and paid his rent.Early next morning, the fleshers came toTom's house for the calf, and every onecalled for his calf, but Tom had only oneto serve them all. Now, says Tom, who¬ever will give most, and speediest will haveit, I will put it to a roup. What, said oneof them, my master bought it yesterday.Then said Tom, you would be a great foolto buy it to day, for it is fashions to lead,and heavy to carry.vFINIS.