THKIIHISTORY)or )NAPOLEON BUONAPARTE.GLASGOW:PUBLISHED BY FRANCIS ORB & SONS.164bflBriSHED RA EKVKGm OK!f V1 gOMS*OrVROOM*MYbOrKOK IlfiOMVbVKXE*OlHZSrXOITAthe historyOFNAPOLEON BUONAPARTE.N apoleon Buonaparte was born at Ajaccio, inthe island of Corsica, near France. He chose theprofession of arms; and at the age of seven wasplaced in the military school of Brienne. In 1783,he was transferred to the Royal Military School atParis. He became an excellent mathematician,and read the Latin historians with enthusiasm:Ossiau, also, was a favourite author. At sixteen,he obtained his first commission, as second lieu¬tenant in an artillery regiment. In 1792, heattained the rank of Captain, but was not in em¬ployment, and lived chiefly at the expense of hisfriend De Bourrienne, wandering about the streetsof Paris, and talked of establishing himself inbusiness, and, at one time, of making money bysub-letting houses. In 1793, the national guardsof Paris, to the number of 30,000, took up arm*against their rulers, when, through the infliwnce6THE HISTORT OFof Barras, Buonaparte took the command of 5000regular troops against the insurgents, and in a fewhours quelled the disturbance; his rise was instan¬taneous, and he was made commander-in-chief ofthe army in Italy.Napoleon’s forces, wherewith to revolutionizeItaly, consisted of 50,000 men, badly equipped,and opposed to highly disciplined and numerousforces. His system of warfare consisted in con¬centrating a small and determined force unexpect¬edly upon points of importance; all luxuries,therefore, and even the baggage of the soldiers,was to be dispensed with, in order to the accom¬plishment of forced marches of unexampled speed.The position of the Austrian army, at thebeginning of the campaign, was between Genoa,and that of the French:—their stronghold wasMonte Notte, occupied by D’Argenteau, who,rushing down upon the French redoubts, waschecked by Colonel Rumpon, during that and thenext day. On the night of the 11th April,1796, Napoleon so disposed the columns underAugereau and Massena, as completely to sur¬round the Austrians: he retreated through thehills, leaving his colours, cannon, 1000 killed,ind 2000 prisoners. This was the first of thatseries of admirable nianwuvres which was to oaz-XAPOLEON BUONAPARTE.9e the world, and the successes immediately aftert Dego, opened the gates of Italy to Napoleoni the short space of three weeks, the loss of theiemy in these encounters being no less than5,000 men, 80 guns, and 21 standards. TheIpine fortresses of Coni were soon after takenDssession of, and the French army urged torthusiasm by the consummate talent of the youngeneral, asked only for action, and dreamed onlyr success.Napoleon now invested Mantua, and made him-dt’ master of four out of five of the fortified places,[ere he concluded a peace with the king ofiaples, and also with the Pope—demanded fromle latter the cession of Farrara, Ancona, andlologna, a payment of 20,000,000 francs, and airge collection of paintings, statues, and stores.)n the Rhine, the divisions under Jomdan andforeau were less fortunate ; the former being de¬bated by the Archduke Charles, and the othereing compelled to retreat, which he did in a mostiasterly manner, through the Black Forest. Thelarshal Alvinsi prepared to measure himself withJapoleon, having under his orders an army of0,000 men. Napoleon’s force was comparativelymall, and somewhat divided ; his situation waseginning to be precarious ; but one of those ex-■10THE HISTORY OFtraordinary movements suggested by his surpaaing genius, placed him between Alvinsi and Dvidowich, and led to the most obstinate ansuccessful rencontre during the whole of the carpaign. Leaving Verona with the main body,if intending to fall, in retreat, on Mantua,caused his troops to wheel again towards tlAdige, and, finding the bridge, crossed the riviwith all speed, and so placed himself between tlrival armies. Augereau moved on through grourintersected with dykes, and therefore fatal in tlevent of the reverse, to the bridge of Areola : Iwas driven back with great loss. Napoleon himself then headed his grenadiers in the midstan overwhelming fire; but again the Frencfell back, and their leader was forced intomorass, with the Austrians between. Frorthis danger he was rescued by the desperatvalour of his troops, who finally carried the bridgnFearful of the approach of the Austrian generalin an opposite direction, he now retired from Arcola, on Ronco; but, learning the next morninjthat Vaubois had not been engaged with thageneral, he once more carried the bridge; th*Austrians, however, kept their ground behind it s<well, that he again retired on Ronco. The thircday he again carried the bridge; and, by an am'NAPOLEON BUONAPARTE.IIbuscade which threw' a column of Croats into con¬fusion, and a feigned charge of cavalry, whichconsisted only of 25 men, with three trumpets,created such a panic throughout the enemy’sflanks, that they retreated on Montebello. Jou-bert and Rivoli was reported to have been com¬pelled to fall back, ant/. Buonaparte, to aid him,marched with his usual lightning-like rapidity,and arrived at the heights of Rivoli by moonlight,at 2 o’clock in the morning. No movement couldhave been better timed ; the artillery of the Aus¬trian general had not come up, and that of theFrench prevented any possibility of the Austrianssecuring the heights. The rout of Alvinsi wascomplete. Buonaparte had three horses killed un¬der him ; but, in spite of his immense exertions, heseemed not to tire. Leaving Massena and Muratto pursue Alvins!, he hastened with all expeditionto the neighbourhood of Mantua, where, at theclose of its repeated assaults, Provera and 5000men laid down their arms; and Wurmser, wornout, made an offer to capitulate. The total Aus¬trian loss at Mantua was 30,000 men, 500 piecesof brass cannon, and a vast quantity of stores re¬mained with the victors. Napoleon next proceed¬ed to the Papal states, where negotiations wereagain entered into with the Roman envoy; and12THE HISTOBT OFAugereau about the same time was despatched toParis with sixty stand of colours. Massena hav¬ing made a successful attack at Belluno on theAustrian flank, Napoleon immediately crossed theriver with a great display of force—feigned a re¬treat—and again, two hours afterwards, made anunexpected attack, which ended in the Archduke’sbeing obliged to retreat.The treaty of Leoben interrupted for the pre¬sent further hostilities between France and Aus¬tria. Master of all northern Italy exceptingVenice, Buonaparte now resolved to humiliate thatrepublic, which he speedily accomplished. A ran¬som of £150,000 in gold was demanded and paid ;stores to the amount of £200,000 were furnished,and several valuable pictures and relics weregiven up.In January, 1798, Buonaparte had returned toParis, and was living there in a style almost ap¬proaching to seclusion. His humble residence wasthe same that he had formerly occupied. TheDirectory in the mean time had done absolutelynothing for him, out of a spirit of the meanestjealousy ; and anxious that he should be employed,they proposed an invasion of England. He sur¬veyed the coast, and proved that the time was notfavourable ; but he proposed a scheme of attackingNAPOLI'/ON BlIOVAP^KTr. IEngland through her Mediterranean possessions.It was adopted, and he sailed from Toulon toEgypt, on the 20th May, 1798, with an armyconsisting of 13 ships of the line, 14 frigates, and400 transports, conveying 45.000 chosen troops.By a fortunate chance it escaped the pursuit ofNelson, and, on the 2d July, a debarkation tookplace at Narabout, nine miles from Alexandria.On the 7th, after a march of much sufferingj thearmy came within sight of the Pyramids, and ofthe numerous army of the Egyptian general.The battle of the Pyramids, so glorious to theFrench, followed. The Egyptian cavalry foundit impossible to break the line of bayonets, and inmadness they dashed upon them, but the roll ofmusketry brought rider and horse to the ground.The soldiers gathered an immense booty on thefield; and Lower Egypt was in their power.On the 11th Feb., 1799, Buonaparte, at thehead of an army of 10,000 men, marched intoSyria. Jaffa made a serious resistance, butyielded ; 300 Turks were slain, and 2000 prison¬ers were drawn out in the vicinity and shot.After a most disastrous journey he arrived atCairo on the 14th June, but he was soon sum-action. The Turks had disem-and taken possession of the16THB HISTORY OFfortress ; he descended the N ile, reached Alexan¬dria on the 24th July, saw his men posted nearAboukir, and gave orders for the assault earlynext morning. This accordingly took place;Murat doing wonders with his cavalry. Victorysided with the French, and Napoleon returned toCairo on the 9th August; and on the 22d reachedthe coast with his staff, and embarked on board aFrench frigate. After a perilous voyage he landedat Frejus, and arrived at Paris on the Kith Oct.,and shortly after was made chief consul.A refusal on the part of the British governmentto enter into accommodation with Buonaparte’sconsulate, determined him to consolidate his powerby fresh victories. The army of the Rhine,100,000 strong, being confided to Moreau, Na¬poleon made a new levy of 50,000 men, whichleft Geneva in three bodies, 6000 to cross MontCenis, 7000 the little St. Bernard, and 37,000,under Buonaparte, the great St. Bernard in theAlps. After four days of excessive toil, the armycrossed that, stupendous range, and on the 20thMay, 1800, Napoleon staid for a short time atthe mountain convent, whose benevolent fathershad given refreshment to every soldier in hisroute. It had been extremely difficult, by casingartillery in trunks of trees, to drag them overNAPOLEON BUONAPARTE.1; the mow upwards; it was still more so to conrey them safely from ridge to ridge in the descent.At the narrow passes of the Alps the soldiers hadto march one by one. On the 11th June, Buona¬parte descended to the plain of Marengo, with20.000 men, near which place the Austrians ap-j peared on the 13 th, 40,000 strong.On the following day the battle took place,when the first and second lines of the French werecompelled to retreat; and, but for the timely arrival| of Dessaix, the engagement had been lost. Thethird line formed, and taking advantage of theover-confidence of the Austrians, after a furiousstruggle, gained a complete victory. Napoleon,on the 2d July, returned to Paris, and was re¬ceived with great enthusiasm.On the 18th May, 1803, Great Britain de¬clared war against France, and 200 ships, con¬taining three millions of property, were seized bythe British. In retaliation, Napoleon retained, incontempt of national law, 10,000 English, whowere residing in France, as prisoners. During thewar, the British took St. Domingo, and theFrench, Hanover; and in Sept., 1803, the pre¬parations for invading England were made andabandoned. A firm ministry, a Nelson, and400.000 volunteers, in addition She regainHISTORYarmy, and militia of 200,000 were not circum¬stances to be despised even by Buonaparte.On the 2d December, Buonaparte and Josephinewere crowned at Notre Dame, in the midst of asplendid assemblage. In May, 1804, the imperialpair were for a short time at Milan, and Napoleonwas made King of Italy. About this time also,he made his brother Joseph, King of Spain ;Louis, King of Holland ; Jerome King of West¬phalia ; and Murat, King of Naples.In 1805, Austria declared war against Prance,and the army was confided to General Mack.Buonaparte’s grand principle was, at all times, toweaken his enemy in detail; he therefore with¬drew the armies from Normandy, intended, ap¬parently, for a descent on England; and they,under Soult, Marmont, and Ney, traversed theRhine, and crossing the Danube, took up a posi¬tion in the rear of Mack. The consequence ofthis was, that although Mack had a garrison ofadmirable troops, amounting to 22,000 men, hiscase was hopeless, and he capitulated without ablow. Buonaparte having thus admirably providedfor the safety of his flank and rear, entered Viennaon the 13th November, 1805, with the mainarmy, and took possession of the palace as a resi¬dence.NAPOJ.KON BIJOKAPABl't. 19About tliis time the news arrived ot the battleof Trafalgar, an engagement fatal to the Frenchmarine ; and it was on this occasion that N apoleonexhibited the advantage of his peculiar tempera¬ment ; for, instead of being depressed, he appearedstimulated to more daring vigour. Leaving Vien¬na, he crossed the Danube, and advanced intoMoravia, as far as Brunn. Between Brunn andAusteriitz the distance is two miles, and this spacebecame his immediate study and his rallying point.His preparations were as follows :—the centre wascomposed of the cavalry and foot of Bernadette andMurat; Lannes commanded the left wing ; Soultthe right; the reserve, under Oudinot, includingthe imperial guard, was 20,000 strong. An evi¬dence of the masterly shill of Napoleon in so dis-'.posing his troops as to take advantage of a proba¬ble imprudence in the enemy was his placingDavoust at Raygern with a stiong division to therear of the French right. Buonaparte threw him¬self by a watch-fire for an hour on the night of the1st Dec., 1805—at one o’clock he was on horse¬back, and rode round his army in front. The sunrose brilliantly—it was the anniversary of his coro¬nation, and his soldiers determined to celebrate itworthily. The battle began. Kutusoff, the Rus¬sian commander-in-chief, sent a large force to turn20THE ROTORY OFthe French right; but here, quite unexpectedly,Davoust came up, and at the same time Soultrushed into the space so created, and isolated thecentre and right. He was driven back, but wasvoon after supported by Bessieres and the imperialguard, and threw the enemy into confusion—thegrand Duke Constantine very narrowly escapingfrom the victors. It was now an easy matter tosurround the right wing, although the strugglewith Lannes was still obstinate. The loss of lifewas then most appaling; for the Russians, coopedup on some frozen lakes, the French artillery fromthe heights broke the ice around them, so thatabout 20,000 were drowned. The Emperors ofRussia and Austria got off the field cvith extremedifficulty, leaving 20,000 prisoners, and above 40pieces of artillery.After the victory at Austerlitz, Buonaparteformed the confederation of the Rhine, of which hetook the title of Protector. In 1806 he proposedto take Hanover from Prussia and to give that ter¬ritory to Great Britain. When this became knownto the Prussian cabinet, the rage and the enthusi¬asm of revenge which it created are indescribable.The Queen of Prussia, and the gallant PrinceLouis, (the King’s brother) arrayed the peoplein heart or arms for tins contemptuous insult.SAPOLROff BUONARAKTK.21Blit it was unwise to rush singly into hostilities,and to enter Saxony in defiance of that Elector’sprotest. Murat, Bernadette, and Davoust,—Neyand Soult,—Lannes and Augereau,—headed threedivisions of the French army, the last of whichwas sternly opposed by Prince Louis, who wasunfortunately killed in the engagement. Soult onthe left, was charged by Mollendorf, and musthave given way but for the division of Ney. Ageneral charge of the centre, under Lannes, otAugereau on the right, and Murat with hiscavalry, threw the Prussians into utter confusion.They flew on to Weimar, leaving above 20,000dead or prisoners, all their artillery, and sixtystandards. This was the battle of Jena. Armvafter army of the Prussians was hemmed in by theFrench and broken up. On the 25 th October,Buonaparte entered Berlin. His insolence wasextreme. The French military were permitted topillage at pleasure. Prussia was treated as aconquered province. The pictures and statueswere sent to Paris.During Buonaparte’s stay in the Prussian capi¬tal, he issued decrees, by which he interrupted all'otercourse between England and the Continent.This speedily led to a war with Russia ; and onthe 7th Feb., 1807, the French and Rustiait‘22 THE HISTORY OFarmies reached Preuss-Eyrau, near Warsaw.The possession of the town was contested obsti¬nately, but at nightfall was in occupation of theFrench. On the following morning the battle be¬gan by the French troops charging the Russianline in two columns, but without effect. Manyhours of hard fighting followed, the French on-setting with the fiery zeal of crusaders, and theRussians receiving them with great courage.Finally, the village of Schloditten having been oc¬cupied by Ney, was regained by the Russians atten at night, and was the last scene of this event¬ful strife, in which both claimed with equal justicethe victory. If any thing, the scale will incline tothe Russian general, who had but 64,000 men, whileNapoleon mustered 02,000. There wrere 47,000dead, of which 27,000 are supposed to have beenFrench. Both nations had proved themselves sowell matched in desperate resolution, that theRussian general’s desire of an armistice was in¬stantly agreed to by Buonaparte, on the 25thJune, 1807.The Emperor Alexander having repaired toTilsit, he and Napoleon met on the 25’th June.When Buonaparte chose to unbend, his fascinationof manner was deemed irresistible, and this appear¬ed in the case of the young and open-minded Em-NAPOLEON BUONAPARTE.25peror. Their friendship increased from day today, and the celebrated treaty of Tilsit was ar¬ranged without an obstacle.On the 8th August, 1808, Sir Arthur Welles¬ley disembarked in Mondego Bay, in Portugal,with 11,000 men. With this trifling force heboldly marched at once into Lisbon, defeating theFrench general, on his way, at the point of thebayonet. But a success far higher awaited him,and at last convinced the French generals thatmore than their master was now in the field.On the 20th Dec., 1808, Napoleon heard of theadvance of Sir John Moore into the interior ofSpain, when he immediately left Madrid with anarmy, with a view to support Soult in driving himinto the sea. When Moore heard of this move¬ment, he began his retreat to Corunna, followed bySoult, whom he attacked rather than ask anarmistice. The French were so far repelled thatthe British troops were enabled to embark; buttheir gallant General fell, mortally wounded, atthe close of the encounter. Napoleon left Spain,and arrived at Paris on tue January, 1809About this time, Austria declared war againstFrance,—the Austrian army at the time consistingof450,000 men; and had th& Archdukes kept theirforces united, the troops of Davoust and Massena,TUB BISTORT OF?6a* well as the centre, which Napoleon now com¬manded, might successfully have been driven back,but on account of the Austrians dividing theirtroops they were easily routed, and Buonapartegained a complete victory.In December, 1809, Napoleon divorced Jose¬phine, to whom he had been married in 1793 ; hedeclared this to be a sacrifice made for the good ofhis country, which demanded an heir; Josephinewas to retain the title of Empress, and the Arch¬duchess Maria Louisa was to be the Imperial bride.On the 2d of April, 1810, they were married for¬mally at Paris, in the midst of every attribute ofmagnificence. On the 20th of April, 1811, a sonwas bom to Napoleon ; the event was welcomedby him with all the rapture of paternal affection.In 1812, Napoleon made preparations for theRussian campaign; and on the 16th May, withhis Empress, arrived at Dresden, having therecongregated a host of kings before whom to playthe tyrant and the superior. The Czar, as a meansof conciliation, was invited, but was inaccessible toNapoleon’s messenger. Napoleon went to Dant-zic, and during fourteen days occupied himself innegociating, finally, without effect, the terms of anarrangement with Russia.Napoleon now determined to extinguish theNAPOLEON BUONAPARTE.27domination of Russia ; and with this view inarchedtowards Moscow with a large army, where hearrived on the 14th September, after a hard foughtbattle with the Russians; the number of slainamounted to 100,000. It was dark when Napo¬leon entered Moscow; he took up his quarters forthe night in the Dorogomilow suburb, appointingMortier governor of the capital; at two o’clock inthe morning there was an alarm of Fire, at day¬break Napoleon hastened to the spot, he threatenedthe guard, but Mortier pointed out to him houses,as yet unentered, from which smoke was rising,which plainly showed it to be a premeditated actof the Russians. He pensively entered the Krem¬lin. At the sight of the palace of the Ruriksand Romanoffs his hopes became reanimated ; hewas in the superb palace of the Russian Caesars,and every portion yielded a gratification to hispride or curiosity. At this period he wrote a letterto the Czar, with proposals of peace, but no answerwas returned. As night came on the flames roseagain in different parts of the city, changing withthe direction of the wind as it happened to blowtowards the Kremlin; and it was discovered thatthe water-pipes had been cut—that trains hadbeen .deliberately laid, and that a number of wret¬ches, horrible and disgusting in appearance, were28THE HTSTOKT Ofemployed in gliding about, like the Gouls of easternfable, and in consummating this terrible sacrifice.The fact was, that Rostopchin, the governor, hademptied the prisons, on condition of their miscreantsburning the French out of the Imperial city; somepolice officers were left to combine them, and neverwas misdeed better fulfilled than this visitation ofrevengeful patriotism ! On the third night theKremlin took fire. It was rumoured that it wasundermined ; all were in a paroxysm of terror saveVapoleon, he smiled incredulously, but this reportafterwards proved too true ; he therefore quittedthe palace, and on the 20th September, the firebeing subdued, he again returned and remainedthere until the 19th of October. No answer hav¬ing arrived from Alexander, Lauriston was sent toKutusoff with another letter for the Czar ; theRussian, though he declined granting a passport toany French emissary, offered to forward the letterby his own Aid-de-camp ; an armistice was subse¬quently entered into. Napoleon was compelled toleave Moscow because of the approaching winter.The armistice was afterwards broken, and theRussians pursuing the French slew immense num¬bers of the army; upwards of 40,000 bodies werefound in the ensuing spring in the bed of the riverBeresina, and multitudes died of cold and hungerNAPOLEON BUONAPARTE. 3 1during the retreat. The remnant of the Frencharmy arrived in France reduced to a few thousands,from that of 400,000 men. Napoleon imputedthe disasters of his army entirely to the elements)and, as there could be none to dispute the asser¬tion, he so far enlisted the sympathies of his peoplefavourably to his views, that in a few weeks liehad again at command an army of 380,000 men.; Buonaparte after this seldom was successful inany engagement, and in the year 1814 signed thefollowing document of abdication :—“ The Allied Powers having proclaimed that theEmperor Napoleon is the sole obstacle to the peaceof Europe, he declares that, in conformity with hisoath, he will descend from the throne, quit France,and even relinquish life, if his country should requiresuch sacrifice. He seeks only the welfare of France,inseparable, as it is, from the rights of his son, fromthose of the Regency in the person of the Empress,and from the maintenance of the laws of the empire.“ Done at our Palace at Fontainebleau, Aprilthe 4th, 1814. “ Napoleon.’’Napoleon afterwards accepted the conditionsproffered by Alexander ; and renouncing for him¬self and Ins heirs the thrones of France and Italy,consented to receive the sovereignty of Elba. Inonaaquance of the Bourbon Terruaeut ’inpavingTHE HISTORY OF■Ihis pension after the tirst three months, he left Elbaon the 26th February, 1815, and on his retum toFrance was welcomed by the soldiery amidst criesof “ Vive I’Empereurbefore May, he organiseda well equipped army, with excellent artillery.“ I go to measure myself against Wellington,”said Napoleon, as he entered the carriage whichwas to convey him to Vervius and Beaumont; atthe latter place he reviewed his troops, amountingto 140,000 men. At this time the head quartersof the Duke of Wellington were at Brussels; heordered a hasty concentration of his army, thenwidely cantoned, around Quatre-Bras; this waseffected on the night of the 16th June.At three o’clock, p.m. on the same day, Napo¬leon came down upon Blucher, at Ligny, with00,000 men. The force of the latter was 9,000less. While this was going on, Ney, with 40,000men, had posted an advance among growing corn,at Quatre-Bras, which wholly concealed it untilclose upon the 79th; this regiment would havebeen cut to pieces, but for the succour of the 42nd;other divisions came up rapidly ; the loss on eachside, at night fall, was 5,000 men. From Quatre-Bras Wellington retired on the field of W aterloo,and look up his position on a declivity, in front ofthe village of Mont. St. Jean : his troops amountedKAPm.EOS HUONAPAKTE,33t« 73,000 men; of these 29,000 were British.The French arrived at their position late in themorning, which was tempestuous, numbering also73,000 men. At noon a cannonade was opened,under shelter of which Jerome Buonaparte chargedon the position of Hougomont; the English guard1-were not to be moved by this assault—but theNassau men fell back; while Jerome pushed hi*ravalry and artillery on Wellington’s right, and wasreceived by squares wholly impregnable, whose firedrove the French over the acclivity. The Britishright formed into squares, having in front 34 piece-of artillery; they were attacked with the utmostfury by the whole force of cuirassiers, who, after•everal assaults, were compelled to retreat, with aloss of two-thirds of their number. The Prussianoolumns were now faintly discernible through thewoods, and Napoleon prepared his guard, underNey, for the final encounter; the English pouredan overwhelming fire into the flanks and body ofthe approaching columns ; the old guard foughtvaliantly, but the nerve of the British was toomuch for them. Napoleon perceived it—“ Theymingle !” he exclaimed—“ All is lost l” and gal¬loped from hi= post of observation. Blucher comingtip from the wood, commenced a cannonade in sup¬port of the British ; the French fled in all direc-34 THK HISTORY OF NAPOLEON BUONAPARTE.tions, pursued by the Prussians, who inflicted re¬lentless vengeance on all whom they overtook.Napoleon hurried to Paris, where his disgraceand arrival were proclaimed on the 21st of June.He was prevailed on to repair to Rochefort, withthe view of proceeding to the United States; unableto escape thither, he gave himself over, at the for¬mer place, to the protection of the British Govern¬ment. After arriving at Plymouth he was banishedto St. Helena, with an allowance of £12,000 perannum. He became seriously indisposed, in 1818,with a hereditary disease—a scirrous of the pylorus—and, refusing to take any medicine, he sank gra¬dually till the 5th of May, 1821, when the ambi¬tious Napoleon terminated his mortal career.t»E END-