THE. (t(f:itft-{t(XCi(f(t(tit(t(f(t(ta(+BUSINESS, LOVE & FRIENDSHIP. (JumiForms of Address to People in all ^ jStatiom of Life. ( +and (fA Copy of a Dill or Note of Hand;and a Last IV:It, or. 'Testament.N E WLetter - Writer,OR,GENTLEMAN and LADY’sINSTRUCTOR,HOW TOWrite Cards & Letters,o N...• • *F A L K I R K :PRINTED BY T. JOUNETON.l8j 3(t(t-(J(tititifitititADVERTISEMENT,opJi 0 excel in Epi^flolary Correrpoadence is notonly*generally admitted to be highly requiflte, buta moft valuable accomplifhment. Elegance in Writ¬ing, and •Gramm *tical Knowledge of Language, areinfuffieient to form a correfpar.dent; it is necdTarythat the ftyie ftiould fl -w with cafe, elegance, andfreedom, as we would deliver our fentiments uponany fjbjeft, in a familiar converfation with ouffriends; occafionaliy varying cur manner accordingto the nature of the cafe, ' With this view, and tofacilitate this moft elegant art, it ishete endeavouredto prtfent a variety of Letters, adapted to everyftatioa and ciicumftance in Ufa; and it will be foundupon perufal, that the following Golleiflion excel,in this refptcl, auy former publication of the kind.To attain the art of eafy and familiar corrcfpond-ence, it is abfobneJy necefiary to sbferve the fol-’owing ineHimable Riiles.( 3 )EPISTOLARY RULES.i, When writing to votir fuperiors, let year L'etttrbe as fhoit as the lubj.ct will admit, particuiarlywherein favours a: e rctjuc'fted. Make life of rr>ibontra^jgtis. as can't, won't, &c. as they appeari Lu-lh dilre-fpcdlful and. ton familiar., 2. Avoid Pod'cripts, a; it (liews difrefpecl In nc-flgledling fuel-, pcrfons in the body of your Letter,3. Avoid blots and interline&t’ons, the latterraefpecially in Letters te. fuperiors r-a:'d all ungram-li|matieal expreilion'.4. Begin every fiefh or new paragraph withilji LapitaL and at the fai*ie d ftarcc f-om the leftjinand margin of Mte paper, as when you begin thei!ifubj:dl of vuur letter.5. ionclude your Letter with the fame addrefsis y u began . as. Me,dam. Sir. See.6 Iltvcr fultl up your Letter without carefullyleading it ov; r fi:-f:.7. Be a* neat as p. ffible in folding it up; Lettersmu mway? be in the ufual f im ; Notes may be11 a triangular or diamond manix r.8. Letters fhould be written on quarto; Notesvide fhould be as brief as p<.ffiblc) in edUvo,tngtva, s.9- Never omit affix ng th.e date of the montfjrid ti e year to^Letters, and the day of the weekand the hour if you pleaL) to Notes.Laitiy. Let Yoin har c-writing be p'.iftdbv legi-‘le. ttally w-it^ri, and the tines very tven.—iao fpi’img ai d bad writing ore equally unpJeafontmd difgract;ul,!■MODE or AODBESSiNGPSHSONS OF ALL RANKS.7 o toe Tt jyal Family.To the K'ng’s mofl Excellent Mijefty,—Sire, or,jttov; it please your M -jesiy.t o his Royal Hiriinef^ the P> iuce of Wales,—M.h”, or, P/oy it pleaseyoar Royal Highness.In live l-anii manner to thA rrft of the RoyalFamily., altering tlie Addrtfjss according to thedjjEFcicnt ta-nhs and degrees of digr.iry.7"o the ,Ncbility.To his Grace A, Djk; of R—, My L-rJ Duke,or, May it please your Grace; or, Your Grace.To life mo^ Nob'c Marrjiits of K—} My Lordjljrquis or Your Lordship. _To t.re RigJ’ Hon. the Earl of G—, My Lord,t.r, Tty Worship.To the Ru hr Hon. th« Lord Vifccunt M—,2'ly Lord. or. Your Worship.1 h* foils of Dukei, Marquifes, and the eldtft fonsr f Carls, have by qourtefy the title of Lord, andRight Honourable ; and the title of Lady is givento their daughter*.The yeunjer fons of Earls, the fons of Vifcountsa .d ’Barons-, are ffried Honourable, and all their- argbftrs, Honourable.•tpon gcmieincn who enjoy place«h t uft a .Tl'.a title of Riglit Hoaoura’ble i. corfened on< •’on thofe who a-s members of liis Majtffty’s ni"lionomable Privy GouncJl. end the throe Lor.:Mayors of London, York, and Dublin, and ti.Lord Provofl of Edinburgh, during their cflice.It is ufusl t« cali a Baronet and a Knight,Honourable, and their wives Ladies.To the Right Honourable the Lords S'piriirLand Temporal, in Parliament assenibied, My Lzrd.for, May It please your Lordships.To the Right Honourable the Knights* Citizen:,and Burgefut, in Parliament afT.mb.ed, Geitlleatetiyor, May it phase your Honours.To the Right Hcnourable F. C. E q. Speaker r fthe Hcufe of Commons, who is generally one of hisMajefiy’s Jloft Honourable I’. ivy Council,—S:r.To the Right Reverend Father in Cod, W.Lord Archbifhop of Canterbury, — i!fy Lsii/ orTear Grace.To %he Right Reverend Father in God, V\bLord Bi.l.op of S—, My Lord.To the Reverend A. B. D. D. Dean of C—, or-Archdeacon, or Chancellor of D—, 01 iVtbuican.Meversnd Doctor^ Mr. Dcan% Lev. .S;>,All Ucfiorr. Vjcar*, -Curates, Lc&arer*, andCJergynu'n, cf ether tnil-iior dcnomn'.atioifc. a.e‘To the Parliament.To the Clergy,nr Cjuaiily,•amh.rwrMi, Ficc-Cuamber'ah, 8zc. and in ail fupo'fcnp-tions of Letters,' wislcii relate to gentlemen’s tin*ployinent, their ftyJs of office fhoold never betcc.the Gimmffnners and Officers of the Civil Lijl.To the Right Honourable R. Eari of G. LordPiivy Seal, or Lord Prefident of the Council, orLord Great Chamberlain ; Earl Marffca! of England,one of his Majefty sPrino.ip 1 Secretaries of State,&uhly Lord, or, Tour Cords bps.l iie Gommiflioners of the Ctiftoms, Excife,.Stamp-Office, Salt-Duty, Xavy, &c. muft he;filled Honourabk.•Tb ibe Army or Jfavy.In the army, all 'Noblemen are filled according-to their rank, to which is added their employ.To v e Honourable A. B. Efq. Lieutenant-Genera!,Mhjor-General, Brigadier-General 6f his Maj'fly’sFo.cas, dir. your Honour.I'o the Right Honourable ]. Earl oTS—, Captainof his Majcfly’s fir fl Troop of Hotfe-Guards, Bund ofGantletncii Pen Goners, Band of Yeomen of theGuards, &c. My Lord, your Lordsbip.All Colonels are fliled Honourable; all inferiorOfiioavs Gtould Itave the name of their employmentlot at Gill; as, ‘loMcjor M.IV. ToCcpfam WAT. &c.In the Navy, all Admirals are fliled Honourablesnd Noblemen according to their quality and < ffice.The other Ofliceis according to their different rankin the army.T'o Ambassadors, Secretaries, a \l Consuls.Aii baflkuors have the title of Excellency odacdto their qualities j as have alfo ail Plenipotentiaries,/gce'ga .G.’vernm, and the Lord Juflice* of Irei*nd;('1 )as, To hk’Excellency S'n B.G. Baronet, his 6. StannicMajeftv'- Envo\ Extraordinary. 2!;d Pleiiipctctttiaiy■to the Ottoman Porte, Sir yuur Excellency.• To the Judges and Lawyers.All the Judges, if Privy‘C'hirifcllors, are iiitedRig!.t Honourable ; as, for infiance.To the Right Hsnourable H. K. Lord High Chaft-cellor of Great Breat Britain. My Lord.your Lordship.To Sir P. H. his Majefty’s Atsornty, Solicitor, ocAdvocate-General, Sir.All others in the Law according to the effihosand radk they bear, every Barrifier having the tillsof Esquire given himoTo the Lieutenancy and Magistracy.To the Riglit Honourable the Earl of K. LordLieutenant and Cuftos Rotuloium of the County ot"^Durham. My Lord- year Lordship.To the Right Honourable C. P. Knight, LordMayor of the City of London, My Lord, yenrLordship. ■All Gentlemen in the Commiffion of the Peace,have the title of Esq. nud lEorsbipjvlas have id.Sheriffs and Recorders.The Aldermen and Recorder of London, a^eRiled Light Worshipful; as are all Mayors ofCorporation, except Lord Mayors.To J. S. Eiq. High Sheriff of the County of MSir, your Worship.To the Right WorOitpfii! M. G. Fjq. Aide; mancf Tower*Ward, London, Sir,-your Worship.To the Right Worlhipful O. IN. Recorusr ot theCity of London, Sir,your Worship.The Goveihors of Hofpitals, Colleges, CV. which- confifi of Magiftratco, or have any fueh among thetlijare Riled Eight Worshipful, as liieh titles allow.{ s )‘J’d lie Gwarriors under the Crvsm.To h!.), Excellency the 'Lord 'Lieutenant of IrelandM-.: Lord, jour Exocllencj.To the Right Honourable '.he Earl of B. Governorof Dover-eadle, &c. My Lord,your Lordship.The fecond Governors of Colonies appointed bythe King, are called Lieutenant Governors.Tiiofc appointed bv Proprietors, as the Eafl IndiaCarnpany, &c. are fiiied; Deputy-Governors.LTh Incorporate Bodies.Incoporate Bodies are called Honourable; as.To t 'C Honourable Court of Direclnrs of the UnitedOnnpanv of Merchants, Jraciing to the Eafl Indies,Tour Honours.To the Honourable the Go'vernor, Deputy-CoverpoY. and Dice&ors of the Soutli-Sca Company.,Tour U ir'j.rs. ,To the Honourable the Governor. Dcptitv-Oovernoi, and Direcbuir cf the Bans of England,Tour Honours.I t H ufual to call a B: met and a Knight, Honour-able, and their wives, Ladies.To Men of'Trade and Brcfejfon.. To Doctor X. H. in RloolMburySquare, London,Dotlor, or Sir.To Mr. H. C. Merchant, in Broad-Ai eet, London,Sir. — But the method cf cdUrtinng Men of Tradennd BtifmcL is fo common, and fo well known, thatit does rot require any. farther examples*^ *COMPLIMENTARYCARDS.Tbe day of tie wed and month mutthe added to the following Cards.r^As~\Mr. M. requests the pleasure ofMr. T’s. company this evening, to joinhim and other friends at the Opera.Mr. T.’s most re'speftfiu complimentsto Mr. M. is very sorry he has alresdyengaged with another party.Mr. and Mrs. D. present their com¬pliments to Mr. and Mrs. LL and,ba glad of their company ne—,to .drink tea and spend the evening.Mr. and Mrs. H. return them coni pi i-ments to Mr. and Mrz. H. and win dothemselves the pleasure to v;ait onat the time appointed.Mr. and Mrs. Il’s kind respedtp toMr. and Mrs. D- and ary sorry tha.:a pre-engagement will npt permit t’.emthe pleasure of wailiHc on them cn- •( to )next; but will embrace the firft oppor¬tunity for th*t puroo^e.M'. and Mrs N.’? compliments toM . -nd Mr-. K s-nd if tney are disen¬gaged this afternoon ill take t ie libertyof c Ding on t-eni.Mr, and M K. are perfe0.1y disen¬gaged and will be very happy in Mr.*ad Mrs. N.’s agreeable company.Mr. and Mrs K. are very sorry it sohappens that they are engaged this after¬noon ; but at any other time that will beagreeable to Mr. and Mrs. N. will beproud of their company.Mr. Jones presents his belt compli¬ments to Miss Weft, requests the honourof being her partner to-morrow eveningat the assembly.Miss West returns thanks to Mr. Jonesfor his polite effer, which fhe h veryforry fhe canito* accept, having alreadyengaged herfeif.Mrs. P.:s compliments to Mrs. II.returns fincere thanks for her obliginginq lines during her indtfpoftiior,, andwill be proud to fee her when mo ftconvenient.Mrs. H ’s compliments to Mrs P.is happy to find fhe is perfectly recover’d;and fhall do herfeif the pleafure'of payingher a vifit on next.( II )LETTERS OJ* BUSINESS.LETTER I.From a Rider in the Country, to bitEmployer in. London.SIR, tiNcot*When I wrote to you laft from Bofton,in thi* county. I tranfmiueei you a minute: account of debt* collefled, and orders re-i) ceived. I d-oubt not but you will judge fromii thence that matters have gone on favourablyi; hitherto. Having -vaited on our three prin-ij cipal corr'efpondents in thi* city, I am to in-i! form you that tv/o of them have dilcharged! their bills, and given frefh orders to a con-fiderable amount; but the ether {till continue*1 lardy. You will readily perceive that I mean1! Mr. Siowtnan, whofe affairs I am given tot nnderltand sre in a very embarraffed fitua'iort.» Some people here are of opinion that a StatuteI of Bankruptcy will be taken out againft him j| while others talk of a compromife. I have1 been adviled to arreft hira in your name, forthe debt that is owing ; but as thia i* a tenderpoint, J dare not proceed in it, without veurauthority ; nor does it become me to. dictateto you, nut to receive and aft according toyour inftructions. I fliall, therefore not takeany mesture till I know ycrxi- nleafure, with•whicli X hope to t>c py retaim nfand remain, Sir, Your devotee fTUOMAS THU'S ri:.( 1a )LETTER II.I'rom a Yeung Man who bad failed inBusiness, to a Gentlenian of Fortune.IIONOUr.AE.LE SIR,I apply tr> you in mv prefent fituation,from the sir a’ted chara£ler y'u bear, of beingever difpofeci to a£ls of humanit). It wasmy misfortune to enter upon a bufinefs, withthe nature of which I was in a great meafureunacquainted. After having been about twoyears in bulinefs, to avoid the miferies ofa prifen, I took (belter in London, whereI have derived all my fupport from a brother,who i$ but in Very indifferent circumflances.In this melancholy (late I was informed thata telation of yours at Manchedev wanteda Clerk, in the room of one who is goingabroad, and therefore embrace this early op¬portunity of writing to you to folicit yourrecommendation. 1 have yet lome £r!ond.%who will give iVcurity for any trull repofedin me ; and I hope that no part of conductwill ever give c(Fence. Though 1 have beenmisfortunate, I trull 1 (hall never be c?ihVndt.If you ever did a generous action (and I knowof many) the grant of the favour now requef tdwill add to the number, as well as lay ms un¬der the moll lailiug obligations. Waitingyour pleafure, if you will deign Lt me hearfrom you, I am, & I ii,In the moil rd'rcffful manner,Youffs. 5<c'. John Xleetul.( *3 )THE ANSWER.IRIEND NEEDFUL,Your’s I received, and am much concernedfor y. ar m’nf'rcunes, to alleviate which, Ihave cheerfully complied witli your requeft,and my relation has confented to receive you.Go immediately to Manchefter, as no time isto be loll; this is a neceflary confideration,becaufe you fliould have fome knowledge othe bufinet's before the clerk goes away.—I have done all in mv power to ferve you,and lent fomething enclofed to defray yourexpences. I am your well-wiflier,Ja:.ies Friendly,LETTER Ilf.From a Tradesman desirous of reiiring fromBusiness, to bis Friend in ibe Country.'t Y r- EAR FRIEND,I have now been, as you well know, nearthirty years in trade ; nor have I fpsntthewhole of that time in vain. God has beenp'ca'ed to blefs my honed endeavours, info-much, that I polTefs what I think a compe¬tence to retire from the noife and buille oflife. I have fettled my accounts to ilie gener-1la’, i shift ion of thofe with whom I v. as e.n-cerned. My wife and only fon died’abouttvvo years sgo, cf an epidemical diftetnper,within a Hiort time of each other; and it mayt>e jultly laid, that I have been in a date ofmourning ever liticc ; l therefore beg that( »4 }.you vill look out for a fnug convenient fpot,vi-here I nav end my days in quietnefs andfoliiude —and vmi will confer a lading obli¬gation on, Sir, Your’s fmcereiy,Andrew Sorrowful;THE ANSWER.MY DEAR FRIEND,I RF.joici- that fucccls ha* crowned tourhonett endeav urs, and that you have formeda refolution of ending your days in tranquility,as I have done, and find no re.afon to repent.I have looked out for a proper place, whereyou will be well accomodated. The houfeis fituated near the church, fo that you willhave frequent opportunities of attendingdivine worfliip. The profpefl is agreeable,and there are many plcaiing walks, calculatedto bring the mind into a folid frame of think¬ing. Every thing fhall be ready for yourreception, therefore let me beg to hear fromyou as foon at poffible. I am. Your < fincerely,R >bert Friendly,LETTER IV.From a Creditor to a Debtor.Sir,I r is out of my power to give you anyfurther indulgence, feeing that the money hasbeen long due, and I am at prefent in groatwant of it; tf, therefore, you will not let tieyour bill by fair means, you {hall Ihortly beobliged by legal cornpulfmn. I am, Sir.Your’s, Timothy Sevfrf.( 15 )THE ANSWER.>18,When it is at prefent cut of my power todifcliargc the debt I have comrafted hh you,1 hope you will confider that making me aprifoner will only add colls to the bill, andrender it of courfe more impra&ieable. Ifbereft of my liberty, 1 {hall corrfequently bedeprived of all means of either doing for my-felf or other*. Your further indulgence will,in the er.i, be better for yourfelf, and add tothe obligations of, Sir,Your humble Servant, W. S.Idc Debtor's Wife's Answer.SIR,Mr Hufband’s prefent embarraffments hav¬ing obliged him to have town, it mull be ofeourfe evident, that it is totally out of hiapower to complv w ith your demand ; time,1 hope, will make a vail alteration in ouroircumftsnces ; till when, tny hufband cannotbe feen.—I am, Sir,Your humble Servant, M. S,I. E T 1 E Pv V.itom ei Hercbant at Dembtirfb, to a Corre¬spondent in Lonaon.SIR,Pursuant to Contract a. the iaf’ inter' iewwe had, previous to my departure from Erg»a.nd, I have fliipped On board the Success.Eapt. Fair-weather, 24 bates of Linen ofvarious forts, marked T. T. — They haveioparately psfied rry ov. r. txaminatior, fo '.hatI can warrant them all good of |their kind.—Bv the ihip that tails from your p*rt,you ill tend me the fsveral articles fpecifiedin the order inclol'ed. As, from our longconnexion, 1 am perfuad^d you have a duefenfe of the duties of commercial life, I can¬not doubt of your attention to the qualities ofthe goods, or your care in difpatching them.I am, Sir, Your molthumUe Servant, W • B*g- •->THE ANSWER.SIRY ur advice ox the goods (hipped on boardthe Success, Captain FairK»eather, came dulyto ban*; and I have the pleafure to informyou of their arrival a (hort time after thepacket. I iliall (hip on board the Speedwell.,Cnpt, Bluffman, the feveral articles ipecifiedin your order, and aft, I hope, upon theprinciples you mention, from a due convic¬tion of their importance in the mercantile line.The continuance of our Correlpondence willbe highly acceptable to me, and I dout>t notof its being prodoelive of cur mutual benefit.I remain, Sir,Your humble Servant, A. J.I/E T T E R VI.7a (i Merchant I.or.dotu giving Ordersjar shipping of Goods-SIR, IVVM UTU, March'- i J.1 R£CEIV£D your’s, acknowledging the re¬ceipt of my latt, with the encloldd Draugiiton Mr. Peter Punctual, tu the amount of YVU1'demand. You will be pleated to (hip for me,on board the urll v-.ilel bouiid lor this pett,(fix bogfSicsds cf Jamaica (agar, fi:: panc!:ccrfrsof mclafle*, and I'x barrels of Malaga raifins.For quality and charge I rely upon your in¬tegrity and moderation, and remain.Sir, Yoen'j, Sic. S. J.A N S W Pd R,Writ ten under the BUI of'Par cels •SIR,Pursuant to vour’6 of the iitb inRant,• » . '7 _T have fent the articles therein ordered, asper Biil of Parcel* above, which I hope yonwill receive fafe, and to vour fati»faf!icn,by the [hip Cointer, Simon Starboard maOer,for Plymouth. A fluring you-, that your com¬mands {hall, at all times, be pan&ually exe¬cuted, I remain, Sir,Your mod humble Servant, W« V.r,LETTER VII.From a tradesman to a principal Creditor.requesting bis Acceptance cj a Cctnpcshiov...SIR,I am under the necessity of informing you,that I am in the number of the unfortunateinvolved in the common min, tccalioned by1’ome la.fe capital failures. To you, as myprincipal Creditor, I therefore firil ad dr elsmy fell. My books {hall be fubmitted to thejr.ipefl.ion of fucii perfons as may be appointedon the occafrin. Permit me, therefore, to re-quel! you will be pleafed to call a meeting ofiny Creditors, reprefent my cafe, and ir.y re-mainirg die As flia’l be furrendered without«( ^ )referve. When an eftimate is taken, I hopethey will accept of fuch competition as it willadmit of, and not deprive me of that libertywhich is etTential to my future fupport,—Your benevolent compliance will be a pre¬vailing example with the red of my creditors,and lav under infinite obligation, Sir,Your mod obedient humble Servant, S. P.THE ANSWER.SIR,The purport of your lad gives me muchpain, as nothing can be more affecting to anhoned tradesman than unavoidable Ioffes de¬tained in bufmefs. Your propofal meets my% hearty approbation, and I lhall endeavour tocarry it into execution. At the meeting ofyour Creditors, I {ball exert myfelf in yourbehalf, being fatisfied with your conduit finesour connection in badness. I am, with thentmod fincertty, Sir,, Your Friend, T. S.LETTER vnr.From a Merchant s Clerk in Town to hisMiisier in the Country.SIR,As Lufmefs, it is prefumed, has detainedyou from home longer than was expedted atyour departure, ray duty directs me to in¬quire concerning your health, and at thefame time to acquaint you, that the utmodcare and attention have been paid to thetranfa&'on of your commercial concerns invour nbfmice. Your return, however, asfoon as affairs w ill perm t, is ardently wi&ed.( *9 )or, fomc bulioefi which you only can aJjall.—You will permit me to allure you, that it iswith the greateft pleafure I embrace thisopportunity of tehlfying with what profoundregard, I am, Sir,Your mod faithful Servant, b. S.LETTER IX.From a Father to his Son, advising him to becautious in contrasting a Friendship,DEAR TOM,From a perfuaficn cf my fuperior'ty inknowledge and experience, as the tffsil offeniority in years, ycu will, I prefume, attendto my op nion md advice in every importantparticular that concerns your conduft in life ;amongfl others, 1 would recommend to ycu,inow you are entering u;*on the theatre ofthe world, the gieatelt caution in the choiceof a friend, as a po'nt thst rnotl effentlallyI concerns your intereft and welfare. In thischoice the chief regard fhould be had to rr.orhlcha: after, as the only foundation for hope, andexpectation of deriving benefit from the con¬nection. I know the mafk of friend {kip is toofrequently afiumed to perpetrate the moll in-fidious purpofes, and its lacred name ufuipedto veil the darkeft dtfigns; which is a confi-deration necefi’ary to be obfervtd in the for¬mation of our frienolhips.—Suddenly ctntrac-ted, they are generally the effeft of a depravedheart on one fide, and a weak head on the other:and ti.1 friendfli.p can be beneficial or perma¬nent but that when has virtue for its bafts.—>! You '.viii attend to thel’e hints, as proceedingfrero Y our affwftionats Father.'( 10 )LOVE - LETTERS.)LETTER X.From a young Lady to her Father* expostu¬lating (rgainst a Proposal of Marriageto benIJOVOURED SIR,I never till now thought it could he a painto me to anlwer any Letter thet came frommy dear Papa ; but this lad of vour’s ci fir cuesrne to the lail degree, a* I know not how tolend an anfwer that is confident with the dutyI owe, and the affection I bear, to the bed ofparents, without, at the fame time, offering, upmy fincerity, and making a facrifice of mypeace and happinefs. Ah 1 dear Sir, refieft,do re'fleft an the real worth and ufe of riches.Do they purehafe health? Do they pur chafepeace? Do they purchase happinefs? No—Then, why am I to barter healtlt, and peace,and liappinefs, for riches? The man )oupropofe to me. I know, you would never havethought on, but for his immenfe wealth, forhe has nothing elfe to recommend himj andI, who can live upon a little ; I, who at pre-fent, have no canker in my heart, and amliapp^ in the company of my,dear Papa andMamma, can never think of giving up this ,peace and tranquility, and'of throwing my feltat the mercy of a brute, that I deleft, for thelake of being worth a large fum of money thatI do not want, and can make no uie of.—( *1 )Thefe nre truths that I am afraid will be dif*agreeable to you, and therefore it is with pain1 write them; but, ir,y dear Papa, what painvvould it jnve to vou to fee me made for evermiferable I I know what would {liorten mydays, would put an end to your’s, fo great isyour afTeftion. The fenfe of that affeftion,and my own love and gratitude to you, thebeft of parents, will make me fubmit to anything. Do by me as you pleafe, but pray thinkof the confequencts; and believe me to be,Honoured Sir,Your moll dutiful, aiieftionate,And obedient Daughter,Mary Dutitul.LETTER XLFrom a young Gentleman to a Lady\ with<wbom be is in Love,Madam,I have three times attempted to give youa verbal relation of the csntents of this Letter,but my heart as often failed. 1 know not inwhat light it may be confidered, only if 1 canform any notion of my own heart from theimprefiion made on it by your manv amiableaccoxTiplifliments, my happinpis in this worldM ill- in a great meafure, depend on yvur an-fvter I am not too precipitate, Madam, norwould 1 dcfire your hand, if your heart didnot accompany it. My circumstances are in¬dependent, and my charafler hither o un-blemiflied, of which you lhail have the moltundoubted pro^f. You have already feeniome of my relations at your aunvs in Uond-( )ftreet, particalarly my mother, with whomI now live. Your aunt will inform you con¬cerning oar family, and if it is to your fatif-faflion, I lhall not only confuler myfelf asextremely happy, but fliall alfo make it theprincipal itudy of my future life to fpend mydays in the company of her whomfl do preferto all others in the world. I ftiall wait foryour anfwer with the utmoft impatience, andam, Madam,Your real admirer, T. L.THE LADY's ANSWER.SIR,I received your Letter laft night, and as itwas on a iubjeA I had not yet any thoughts of,you will not -vender when I tell you, I was»i good deal furprizs'd. Altlio’ I have feen youat different times, yet I had not the moll diflantthoughts of your making me pr pofals of i'ucha nature. Some of your' fex have often rffertedthat women are fond of flattery, and mightilypieafed to be praifed : 1 lhali therefore lup-pofe it true, and excufe you for thole fulfomee Comium^ bellowed upon me in rour Letter;but am afraid, was I to eonply with yourpropofals, you would f->on be convinced thatthe charms you mention, and feem to valuefo much, are merely exterior appearances,which, like the fummer’s floaer, will veryfoon fade, and all thole mighty profeffions oflov; will end at laid either in indifference, or,which is worfe, difguft. Y u dtfire me toenquire of my aunt concerning year charafler( *3 )and family : You muft cxcufe me "when I tellyou, that I am obliged to decline making anyfuch enquiry. However, as your behaviour,when in my company, was always agreeable,I lhall treat you with as much refptft as itconfident with common decorum. My worthyguardian, Mr. Melvill, is now at his feat inDevonfliire; and his conduit to me has beenv fo much like that of a parent, that I don’t.,,chufe to take one ftep in an affair of fuch im¬portance, without both his confent and appro¬bation. There is an appearance of fincerityruns thro’ your Letter; but there is onepartieular to which I have a very ftrongobjeftion, which is this: You fay that youlive along with your mother, yet you don’t faythat you have either commun'cated your fen-timents to her, or your other relations.—I muff freely and honeftly tell you, that as Iwould not difoblige my own relations, fo m i-ther would I. on any confideration, admit ofany acidreffes contrary to the inclination*of your’*. If you can clear up this to myfatisfaclion, I fhall fend you a more explicitanfvver, and am. Sin,Your melt obedient Servant, M.B.FORM OF A NOTE OF HAND.London, March 6l 18x5.On demand (or fp.ctfied time after date)I promife to pay Mi. L ngman. or order,the Sum of—pounds — Shillings, and—pence,for value received. J. H.C 24 )TORSI OF ALAST WILL, OK, TESTAMENT.In the Name *f GOD, Amen. The  day of—One tkoufani. eight hundred, and—-I, John Ssiitii, of the Pari fit of St.——in the CitJ’ of London, baker, being in healthof bod*, and of found mind and memory,Do make this my Lail Will and Teftament ;at the fame time utterly revoking all formerWills made by me, declaring this to be myLad Will and Ttftament.Find, I give and bequeath to my fifter,Arm Smith, the lum of two hundred PoundsSterling. — To my filter, Mary Smith, twohundred Pounds Sterling. — To my brother,Gharlei Smith, three hundred and fifty pounds ;and to my t»o executors, twenty pounds eachfor their trouble. And laftly, after all myjuft debts are [aid, I give and bequeath thethe whole reft and refidue of my eftates,whether real or pcrfonaL and all my iteckin trade, and every thing I am p. fk.ffrd of,vhatloever and *herelctver. to my ?eil andtruly beloved wife, Jane Smith. At the fametime I do appoint Mr. J- hn Dakin, banker,and Mr. Peter Gimbie. mercer, of the famepavifli, joint Jfxecutor* ex this my Ldt Willand 1 citament; to which I hive hereuntofet my hand and leal, his bay f  in the year of < ur LeitD, one theulano tighthundred and  John Smith.Signed, Sealeu, anc; Delivered, L. M.jh the nreience of us, N. O.P. Q;F J N I S