T H EHUSH WEDDING.TO WHICH AS.E AOHED,T H E R I G S OF BARLEY.T FI E TINKER’S SONG.rIhe Milk Maid got with Child at a Wake.A SEA F A R 1 N C S O N G.The Auld Yellow-Haih’i? Laddie.GLASGOW,Printed hy J. & M. ROBERTSON. Saltmarltet.18ci, ATLIBRTfrjf ™ OF SCOTLAND[ 2 ]THE IRIS H V/ E D D I N G.N' O W you fhail hear, what roving ch«cr,__ was fpread at Paddy’s wedding, O;And how fo gay, they fpent the Hay,from church vnto the bedding,* O ;Fit ft book in hand came Father Quipes,with the bride’s dad the Bathe, O,While the chanter with his tnerry pipe8>ftruck up a lilt fo gaily, O.CHORUS.Sing, hethrum tethrum, tetbrum hethrum,R.al lal lal fal laflal lar ri, O, etc.No'r, there was Mat, ?nd hardy Pat,Meg Morgan and jack Murphy, O,There was Murdoch, Meg, and tfurdy Stag,MT-augklan, and Dick Duiphy, O.Then to lee the girlwigg’d out in whites,ltd on by dad 0‘Kaiiy, O ;While the chanter, with hits merry P'-pes>{truck up a lilt fe gaily, O.Chorus. Sing, bethrunt tethrum, C’C.When Pat was alk’d if his love w'ould lad, ^the whole.church re-echo'd wuh laughter, 'J}ity my fboid frys Pat, and you may fay that,to the end of the world, and aftet* D .Then "'.endttly her hand he grips,and itiffea her genteely, O,While the chanter with his merry pipes,{truck up a iilr^fo gaily, O.Chorus, Sing hethrunt tethram, etc.OXVraf a roaring fat, at cL'ance ware tnei,io freiickromr ami k> /i-'aniJf, O,» WItn potatoes gafor and a hirmingiinaorc,. an.i a Coving madder of whiikv, OtSo merrily wear round (he fwip.r,at the bride's exp:ace fo freely, Q,ch r.-Mer with h's merry pipes,ft reck up a lilt fo gaily, O.I Sing, Helhrum tethrum, etc.dind then at night oh ! what delight,* t0 them cap ring and prancing, O,A'; Opera er liall was nothing at ail,when compar’d to the ftile of their dancing. 0-And then to fee old Father Quipvs, °heating time with hi? rtulahey, 0,| ^hi!e the chanter with his merry pipes,fuuck up a lilt fo gaiiy, OChorus, fdethrum tethrum, etc. ‘But now the frtt fo fappy to it got,• they’d go to f!eep> without rocking, O,.die the bndc s mams tair fo bravely picp^mfor throwing of the flocking,Dochrndcrus we’.: have, fays Father Quines,and kiffes the bride genteely,, O,V. hile to wifla them fun the merry pipes(truck up a Jiit fo gaiiy, O,Sing, fltthrum tethrum, etc.THE PtIGS OF BARLEY,IF was upon a Lammas night,when.corn rigs v/sve fae bonny,[ Beneath the moon’s unclouded fight,,' I tiled to Annie,[ 4 ;jThe time few by wi teni.efd heed,tili ’tween thc'Jate and early,Wi’ fma’ perfuafion fne agrted,to fee ine through the bark-y.CirjniS. G it’s- corn rigs, an’ barley rigs,an* corn rigs are bonny,I’ll ne’er forget that happy night,anvang the rigs wi’ Anne.The rtty was blue, the air was Ri i,the moon was tinning clearly,I fee her down wk right good will,among the rigs of barley ;l kmt her heart was a’ my ain,I Itfed her moll lincerriy,1 kifs’d her o’er and o’er -gainamang the rigs o’ barley.Chor. O it’s corn rigs and barky tigs, etc.Llock’d her in my fond embrace,her he-att was beating rar.dy,My blelfing on that happy p *c:,anang the rigs o’ b/rk-y.Bat by the rr.oon atid itars fee bright,tha ihone that k‘.ur fo clearly,I’ll r.f’er forger PVir happinefsatnang the rigs o’ barley.Cher. O it’s corn rigs, and bar'tey rigs, etc*5 hak b* cn blytb wi’ comrades dear,1 hi’c b- cn merry drinking,^I ha’e been joyfa’ gathering gear,I ha’e been happy thinking.But a’ tbe p’eafutes e’er I bad,though three times doubled fairly,That happy night was worth them a’anavng the rigs V birfey.’ Otirr. O it’s corn rigs, and bat ley t:gs, etc.T HE TINKER’S SO M G.< Y daddy ->as a tinker's too,I\i And i’m his boy, ?.is ten to one,Hire's pets to menu ! ^ras (ii!i his cry,Kere’s pots to mcmi i aioud bawl i ;Hstc ye tin pots, ketties, or cauns,Coppers to foider, cr brsfs paiis-Ot wives my dad had near a icore,And I have twice as many more;And what’s as wonucrlul as true,My daddy was the L—d (upon my foul he was)the lord knows who r’Fis a liavd nutter for a child to know its ownfather, be tides, my mother a 'ijueeh : Oh! yes(he. was Ch.etr. oi the GypWcs, and perhaps i wasborn a i'rince'! though now, like other tinkers, Imend ae. hoic and make twa, with myTan ran tan, tan ran tau, tan,For pot cr cann, oh ! I’m your man.Once l in budget, fntig had gotA barn-door capon, and what not.Here’s pots to mend ! 1 cried along,Here’s pots to mend ! was frill my fongAr village wake oh ! curie bis tf.ioa‘.The CQv. k. ci ow’d cut fo loud a note.The folk in clulters (lock’d around,They feiz’d my budget, in it foundThe cock, a gammon, p -afe and beans,Bcfides a joHy tinker (yes by the L--d/ a tinker'sways and means.Oh ! they took my all, left me nothing but mypaternal eilite, which coo. (led of myTan ran tan, tan ran tan tan, etc.■ , l ^ JLike cisd, when t to C|uiir . -3 come,For want of c.'.-fh : the folks I Rum.J fere’s pots, to rrjend . bring me fomc beer ! ,rl be 1.1: llord ci las, “ Ycu’ii get cone here,“ You tink’ring dog your tricks Lknow,“ More beer indeed 1 Pay what you owe *In tags J Squeeze him ’gainfl the door,And with his back rub off the fcore. 'At his exprnce we drown ail it rife,For which I praife. the landlord (could not <io lef»)than pi the landlord's wife.And jbecaufe (he was pretty what, yes ! what? fiiap! another quart, and feors it op to the tin-ku- —at any time thould you want a little jobdene, you may ccnofu.id me'and ,:iyFan ran tan, tan ran tan tan,.1-or pot or cann, oh 1 I'm your man.«W-r\ '.CoU-y:,-:;;.The Milk Mai« got with Child at a Wake.YOung Nelly the milk maid, right buxom & gay,Who ever delighted \vi‘h Roger to play.One e-vViirg of late v-. nt a dance for to take,She 2He'd b* r dame leave for to go to the wake.Says (lie, Yea may go, but Pd have you take care,Of Roger’s delations I’d luv'e you beware,For if this my counfcl you do not take,Perhaps you'll have're'dch to thick on the wake.Dreft up in bcr'lnW away fire did (leer,Where, as.flre expefted, ycuftg Roger was there,They danc'd and'tti.y f v' -■ i pn beer, ale ar.d c-!»•“»Sucb fClicst' ei.ae- v at fotmJ at-thetwi-ks.. r 7 31 h: rafr-rrs being o’er young NsH took h-r wzy,Until si -y came fo feme coc1:: of n 7/ hay.He isd hew a rfanee. sisd The 4 for year fjke,1 r. -’er wi l forget coming home from the wake.Hr r<Hme th- nexf morningfa d,Ndhirn merighf,What pVafore or psiftimc you met with laft night ?Young Nelly the laugh'd til; her fides (lie did (hake,Soj’k.g, ’twas a delicate dance coming home .frontthe w\kc.. Socn aft- r fne found that her urength it did fail,Ivm ryd rofy cheeks began to look pale,Her belly g;- big, and her heart it did ach,When )h ! thought oa her dance coming home fromth wf.ke.Her dame fben perceiv’d it, and faid to her Ned,Wr>2t have you been doing, you feem for to fwell ?Nats fhe f can’t fell, if my life lay at Rake,But i fcaf’twas a fall coming home from the wake.' Now the ex"ofes the fweetefl: of charms,So d'fperate it grew, ’rill it lodg’d in her arms.So maidens by Nelly a warning pray take,Beware how you fall coming henre from the wake.A SEAFARING SONG.BE cheerful my lads, now all dangers are o’er,The high foaming billows diliurb us no more.Rude Bor&as may bluffer, may bluller in vain.Tor here we can laugh at the threats of the main;Then each lad take his iafs,His bottk and glafs,For life’s but a favour ftmr quickly tnuft. pafs.C 8 3Rinc :' litc’s but a bubb’e* whnt bubblers jre tbev, »W }»/•> frlfle and bubble their mo:ner.fs a-vay,(> r bufinefs is pivafuie, in pieafure vfe roll.And divide all ourbours’tvviit the fair & “bqwlj 'Then here goes my boy,Such charms near can cloy.For love is the topmaft, the high top of joy.Can kings, after toils or tb6 tumults ofThus boldly defy all the cares of the great ?Can they thus enjoy the few moments they live,Or relifh the innocent freedom they give i’Vis out of their fcope,Whilft cares interlope,For liquor and love are our anchors of hope.THE AULD YELLOW-HAIR'D LADDIE.THE yellow-hair’d laddie fat down on yon brae.Cries, Milk theewsjafiiejetnaneofthemgaejAnd ay fhe milked, and ay flic fang,The yellow-hair’d laddie fliall be my goodman.And ay fhe milked, and ay fbe fang, etc.The weather i« cauld and my claithing is thinjThe ews are new clipped, they winna bught in:They winna hught in tho’ I fhou’d die,O yellow-hair’d laddie, be trad to me :They winna bught in tho'.I {hou’d die, etc.Thegoodwifecriesbutt thehoufe, Jenny,comeben,The cheefe is to mak, and the butter’s to kirn.Tho’ butter, and checfc, and a’ fhou’d four,I'll crack and kifs wi’ my love ae ha’f hour;It’s ae ha’f hour, and we’s e’en mak it three,For the vellow-hah’d laddie my hufband (hall be. |Printed by J. & M. P-obertfon, Saltmatket, iSoi,