THE HISTORY OFThe wicked Life and horrid Death ofDR. JOHN FAUSTUS.-SHEWING,I How he fold himfelf to the devil, to havepower for 24 years to do what he pleafedAlfo (Irange things done by him and!MEPHOSTOPHILES.With an account how the devil came lor himat the end of 24 years, and torehim to pieces.Stirling, Printed this prefent year;. pV SCOTUND JV^LDjnbu^S^THEHISTORY11Dr. JOHN FAUSTUS.II » -IC H A P. I.Dr, Fauflus’ birth and education : with an ac*count of his falling from the Fcrip-ures,T^OCTOR JOHN FAUST US was bomIJLJ* in Germany ; his father was a poor ia-Jbouring man, not able to bring up his fotiujohn : but he had c brother in the famelicountry, who was a very xicii man. but hadinever a child, and took a great fancy to hisjcoufin, and he refolvcd to make a fcholar ofkhim j and in order thereunto, put him to thelatin fchool, where he took his learning ex¬traordinary well ; afterwards he put him tothe Univerfity to H'udy divinity ; but Fauftuscould in no ways fancy that employment ;wherefore he betook himfelf to the ftudyingof that which- his inclination was mo ft. for.viz Necromancy and Conjuration, and in alittle time, few or none ccutd out-ftrip him inthe art; He aifo tiudied Divinity ; of whichhe was made Doctoi j but within a {hart timefell into fuch deep fancies and cogitations,that he rtfo'ved to throw the icriptures fromhim, and betake himfeif wholly to the ftudy-ing of necromancy and conjuration, charmsand footh’faying, vutcii*craft, and the like.CHAP 11.How Dr. Fault us conjured up the devil, mak¬ing him appear at his own houfuFAUSTUS, whole mind was to ftudy con¬juration, the which he followed nightand day ; ke took th/s wings of an eagle,and endeavoured to fly over the world, to feeand know all the fecrets of heaven and earth:So that in a ihort .time, he attained power«rHo command the devil to appear before himi when he pkafed One day as Dr, Fauftus: was walking in a wood, near to Wirtembergin Germany, he having a friend with hirawho was defircus to know the Doftor's art,he defire him to let him fee if he could theni and there bring Mephoftophiles before him ;all which the doctor immediately did, and the1 devil upon the fir ft call, made inch a noifsin the wood, as if heaven and earth wouldhave come together ; then the devil madej fuch a roaring, as if the wood had been fullof wild beafts, The Dodor made a circlefor the devil, the which circle the devil ran: round, making a noife as if ten t icufandj waggons had been running upon pavedftor.es. After this it thundered and ligh.tened, as if the whole world had beenon fire. Fauflus and his friend amazed attins roife, and the devil’s long tarrying,; thoughuto leave his circle ; whereupon heI made him fuch mufic, the like wt;s neverheard in the world : This fo ravilhed Fauftus,t that he began again toconjure Mephoftophilesi io the name of the prince of the devils, toII appear in his own likenefs ; whereup n in an' tnftanr hung •ver his head a mighty‘J dragon. Fauftus calls again after his formemanner, after which there was a cry in the, wood as if hell had been opened, and. all the6’tormented fouls had been there ; Tauftus inthe mean while, afking the devil many quef-tions, and commanding him to fhew manydiabolical tricks.How Mephoftophiles came to Dr. Fauftus’shoufe, and w'hat happened between them.TT’AUSTUS commanding thefpirit to meetr him at his houfe by ten of the dock thenext day. At the hour appointed lie cameinto his chamber, afking Fauflus what hewould have; Fanftus told him, it was hiswill and pleafureto conjure him to'be obedi¬ent to him in all poincs of thofe articles.Firft, That the fpirit fhould ferve him inall things he alked, from that time till hisdeath-Secondly. Whatfoever he would have, hefhouid bring him.Thirdly, Whatfoever he defired to know,he fhould tell him.I he ‘pirit anfwered him and faid he hadno fuch power of himJelf, until he had ac¬quainted his prince that rul’d over him: <{ ForCHAP. Illviz.7I faid hss “ v.re have rulers over us that fend; “ us cut, and coaimand us home when they1 <! pleafe : and we can act no fu? t ier than out1 “ power is, which we receive Irani Lucifer,1 “ who, you know, for his pride was tht ufl1 * out of heaven. But, faith the fpirir, I am1 not to teii you any more except you make! yourfelf ov;r to us ”Whereupon FauHus Lid ‘ 1 will have my1 *e requeft ? but yet l will not be dan-ned with1 “ you./ Then faid the fpir t “ You muft!“ not, nor ihall not have your c’e ire, and“ yet thou an mine, and all the world cannot*'• la ve thee out of my hands ” l htn faidFauftus, 4 Get thee hence, and l con-urethee, that thou come to me at night ’’ Jhe| fpirit then vanilhed. Vauftus then began to! confid it, how he might ob a n his d fire, andn not give his foul to the devilAd while Faudus were in thefe his devil ilkcogitations, night drew on, and this hellilhJ fpirit appeared to Faudus. acquainting hiin;I that now he had got orders from his prince to„be obedient to him, and to do for him whatfoever he defired, provided he would promifeto be hn, and withal to acquaint him firft,what he would have of him ? Fault us replied,that his defire was to become a fpirit, andthat Mephoitophiles Ihould be always* at hiscommand; that whenfoever he called for8him, he fliatl appear inviftble to all men, andthat he Ihould appear in what fhape he pleafedto which the fpirit anfwered, that all his de-lires (liould be granted if he would fign thcfeankles, hefhould wifh or a Ik for ; whereu¬pon Dr. Fauflus withdrew and ftabb’d hiswrift receiving the blood in a fma'l faucer,which cooled fo faft, as if it forewarued himof the hellilh he was going to commit;neverthekfs he put it over embers .to warmit, and wrote as follows.“ I, John Fauftus approved dodor of di¬vinity, with my own hand do acknowledgeand tefiify myfelf to become a fervant to Lu¬cifer. Prince of beptenrional and Oriental,and to him 1 freely and volnntarly give bothfoul; in confideration for the (pace of twen¬ty tour years, if I be ferved in all thingswhich I fhall require, or which is reafonableby him to be allowed ; at the ‘expiration ofwhich time from the date enfuing, I give tohim all power to do with me at his pleafure >to rule, to fetch tnd carry me where he plea-body and foul ; hereupon I defy God andChrifl, and the hoft of angels and g ood Ipiritsall living creatures that bear his ftnape, or onwhom his image is imprinted ; and to thebetterllrengthening the validity of this cove-i namatid firm agreement between wc, I have■ writ it with my own blood, and fubferibe my' name to-it, calling all the powers and infer*nal potentates to witnels it is my true intentand meaning/*JOHN FAUSIUS.CHAP. VI,F What happened to Fiufins after the figningof the articles.JL7"HEN Fauftus had made an end ofV v his writing, he called Mephofiophilesli to him, and delivered him t.he bond ; where*i upon the fpirit told him if he did not repenti of what he had done, he fhould enjoy all thef pleafnre his thoughts could form, and thathe would immediately divert him. He cau-t fed a kennel of hounds to run down a hart inthe hall, and van!fired : then a bull dancedbefore Fauftus, alfo there was a lion and abear, which fell to fighting before Fauftus,and the lion deftroyed the bear; after■that came a dragon and deftroyed the lion:A nd this, with abundance of more paftirne,did the fpirie prefsnt to the do&oHs View,concluding with all manner of mufre, withfbme hundreds of fpirits, which came anddaflCv d before Fauftu^ After the muiic wasever, and Fauilus began to looh: about him,he, Caw ten lacks fuU of iiivcr. v/hich he wenttodiipefeoi. but could not, for none couldhandle it but himfelf, it was fo hot. 1 bis paf*time fo pleaitd Fauftus, that *;e gave Me-phoftophties the wifi that he had made, and.kept a copy of it in his own hands, the fp'ritand bauftus being agreed, they dwelt togeth¬er, and the devil was in their houfe-keepingfor there w as never any thing gmn away topoor, which before Faniius made this con- !trad; was frequendy donej bet the cafe is nowaltered.C II A P. VHow Fandus ferved the Duke of Bavaria*having fold bis foul to the de-J; Yilf it was reported aiqcng his neigh-boujs, lb that none would keep him company,but his fpirit playing merry tricks lor to pleaiehim* Nor far from Faultus's hoyiie lived theDuke of Bavaria, the Duke ot Saxony, andthe Bilhep of baiilburgh, whole houies andcedars Mephoftoprhles'ukd to viht, and 'obring the belt of every tiring they h^d : one11day the Duke of Bavaria invited moft of thegen ry of the country to dinner, lor whofeentertainment, mere was abundance of pro-vifion got ready. The gentry heinT come,and teady to At down to dinner in art*mftnSitMephoilophiles ca*ne and took all. away withhim, leaving them full of admiration, sf any.11 time Fauilus had a mind for wild fowl, the fpirit would call w.hok Hop ; s in at a window, Al-To the [pint did teach Fautlus to do the Ikefo that no lock nor key could keep them out.The devil alfo taught Fauftus to fly in the air,I and to ad many things that are incredible, andtoo large for this fin all book to contain.CHAP. VI.3 How Dr. Fanftus dreamed of hell in his fleepand what he faw there.AFTER Fauftus had a long conferencewith his fpirit concerning the fall ofI] Lucifer, and the Rate and condition of all the| talien angels, he, in a vifion or dream, fawhell, and all the devils and fouls that were tor-i mented there ; he alfo hell divided into feve*ral cells, or deep holes j and for everycell, or deep ward, there was a devd12appointed to punifh thofe that were under his- cuftody. Having teen this fight* he much mar-veiled at it; and at that time Mepholtophiiesbeing with him, he afked him what fort ofpeople tbev were that lay in the firlt dark, pitthen Mephoftophiles tola him they were thofewho pretended tin.mfeives ta.be phylicians,and who had peifcned many thoufands to tryprafthe ; and now faith the fpirit they havejud the fame adminiflered to them, whichthey gave to others, though not with the fimeeffe&, for they will never die here fai h heOver their heads was a Ihelf laden with gaUlipots full of poifon Having pad them, hecame to a long entry exceeding dark wherethere was a mighty crowd, he alked himwhat thofe were ? and the fpirit told himthey were pick-pockets; who loved to bein a crowd, when they were in the oiherworld, and to content them they put themin a crowd there, arpqngjf them were femepadderson the high way, and thofe of thatlundb’on. Walking farther he faw manythoufandsof vintners, and fome millions oftaylors, in fo much that they could not feelwhere to get dowage for them ; a greatnumber of paltry cooks with peels on theirheads. Walking farther, the ipirit openinga great cellar door, from which aroie a ter¬rible ntpife, he alked what they were : rheK,jfpirit told him they were witches, and thole(who had been pretended Saints in the otherworld; but how they did fquabbie. fight,and tear one another ! Not far from them,day the whore mongers and adulterers, whowho made fuch a hideous noife, that he wasvery much ilartkd. Walking down a few'fieps he efpied an incredible number almoithid with finoke ; he afked what they were ?the Ipirit told him they were millers andbakers; but good lack, what a node was'there arm&ng them ! ri he millers crying to thebakers, and the bakers crying to the millersmillers for help, but all was in vain, forthere was none to help them. Faffing on ftili(fat ther, he faw thoufands of ihop keepers,fome of whom he knew, who were tor*memed for defrauding and cheating theircufiomers. iiav;ng taken this profpe& of;''iHell, ihe fplrit Mephofiophiles took him in: his arms, and,carried him home to his ownjfhoufe, when he awaking, he was amazed^atI what he faw in his cream. So being cometo hiu fell, he afked the fpirit in what placeWell was, and who made it f Mepholtcphiiesurii'weved, •• Knowtft thou, that before thefall of Luciler, there was no hell, but uponhs fall, was hell ordained As for thelubltanie of hell, we devils do not know j•t is the wrath of God that makes iiell fofurious, and what we proem ed by our Fall ;But where Hell is, or how it is governed andwhatfoever thou delirHt to know, when thouCornell there thou lhait be i'itisikd m far aswt* know out iclvcs.C H A P. VII,Containing iome tricks of Dr. Fauflus.r | R. Fault us having attained thedefireofJ hi fpirit, had nowr full power to ad-or do any thing whatever he pieafed •, upona umethe Krnperor had a defire to fee him,and nkewife iome of the Dodor's tricks;whertupen he was requtfted by the Em})eroj,to do fomewhat to make him merry ; but theDcdor in the meanwhile looking around himhe at )aft efpied a gr-^at lord looking out at awindow, and the Dodor calling his Spirit tohelp him he in an inftant fattened a largo'pair of horns upon the Lord’s head, that he^could not get his head in till Fauftus took oftthe horns agtin which weie loon taken oftinvittbly ; lire Lord wlrom Fauftus ferved lo,was extremly vexed, and rtfolved to be reven¬ged on the Dodor, and to tliat end lay a milecut of town for Fauttus’s patting by, he beingthat day to depart for the country ; Fauftus.ioming by a wood*fide, bebetl that Loricounted upoa a mighty warlike hpris, who. Itm iuil drift againit Fauftus, who, oy theJfliilance of his bpirit. took him and ail, andarried before the Emperor’s palace, and grabei a pair of horns on his head as big as an,)x"s : which' he could never be rid of, butvore then; to his dying day.CHAP, vm.How Fauftus eat a load of Hay. -fT* AUS TUS upon a time having many doc-,17 toi s and matters of Arts with hint, wento walk in thg fields, where they met with,aoad of hay : *4 How' now good Fellow,naith Fauftus, what ftiall l give thee to fillfny belly with hay ?” The Clown thought heaad betna madman to talk of eating of hay,•iiold hira he fiiould fili his belly for one pan-fy, to which the dodor agreed and thenHell to eating, and quickly devouring half of; he load : At which cue aodar’s companionsmughed, to fee how limply the poor country^.eilow looked, and to hear how heartily hestayed the dodor to forbear : bo Fauftus pi-*ymg the poor man, went away, and beforehe man got near his nouie, ail the hay was ini6the cart, that the doctor had eaten, which timade the country ieliow very much adawre. 'C H \ P. IX.* D"'d: dHow he flruck a patee! of Students who weresfighting together, blind ; and how he ferived a parcel of Clowns who were lin&ingand ranting at an inn.THIRTEEN Students meeting with fevenmore, n.:ar Dr. Faudus's houfe, fell toextremely, fird in words and at lad to blows;the thirteen being too hard for the ievtn, andDr. Paudus looking out at his window andfeeing the fray, and how much they were o«ver matched, conjured them all blind, fo thatthe one could not fee the other, and in thismanner they fought one another, which madeall that faw them laugh : At length the peo^pie parted them, and led them to their chain*bers, they induntly received their fight- —The do&or coming into an ina with fomelfriends, was difturoed bv the hallowing and!'bawling of a parcel of drunken Clowns,whereupon when their mouths were wide o1pen, he io conjured them, that by no meansthey could fhui them again; and after theyhad ifcared one upon another, without beingable to fpeakj thinking they were bewitched*Ithey dropped away in a confufed fear, oneby one, and never «ouId be got to the houfcafterwards.CHAP. XHow Fauftus helped a young man to a fairlady.I 'lnHERE was a gallant young gentleman^ who was in love with a fair lady, livingit Wirtemberg. near the Dodtnf’s houfe, Thisgentleman had long fought this lady in tnar-tfiage but could not attain his defire and ha-tt/ing pbced his aff ftions fo much upon her,eie was ready to pine away, and had certainly'died with grief, had he not msde his addrefs<to the doftor, to whom he opened the whole^natter. Now no fooner had the gentlemanold his cafe to the doftor. but < e told him.sjhat he need not he afraid, for his defireshould be fu'filled and that he ihould havetjier, whom he fo much 'defired, and tha‘ thisji;entle'.voman fhould have none but him,Jvhich was accordingly done, for the doftor»|o changed her mind that file could think ofidling el!e but him whom before fhe hated ;«ind Faufius’sdtfire was this : He gave himi8an inchsnteii ring which he orJercd hi;n toput into the lady’s hand, or to ft p it on herfinger, which he did • and no fooner flie gotthe ring than her heart burnt wi'h love tohim; (he inflead of frowns, coaid do noth ■ing but fmile upon him and not be at refttill fhe aiked him if he thought he could loveher, and make her his wife ? he gladly anfwered with all his heart. So they were mar¬ried the next day, and all by the help of Dr.Fauflus.C H A P‘ XL. .How Fauflus made feven women dance na¬ked in the Market place.FAUST a 8 walking in the market placefaw feven women fitting ail in a rowfelling eggs, butter, &c Of every one htbought fomething and departed : No foonewas he gone, but all the eggs and butterwere gone out of their bafkets. and they kqevnot how r At laft they were told, that DrFauftus had.conjured their goods away ; the’thereupon tan fpeedily to the Doctor’s houfcand fo dernauded fatisfadlion for the wareHe refelviitg to make bimfelf and the town*people merry by his conjuring Art, made ther: j19stum to their balkets naked as ever they weretorn : and having danced a while in the mar-let place, every one’s goods were conjured m-o their bafkets again and they fet at liberty.CHAP. XII.low Fauftus ferved a Country Fellow whowas driving of Swine.I *~7CkR. Fauftus, ashe was going to wirtem.? berg overtook a Country Feii®w drivingn hundred Swine. who were very■ead ftrong feme running one way andome another; fo that the driver could not|B1 how to get them drove along: < The doctortaking notice of it, fo by his conjuring art,ic made every one of them dance upon theirwo hind kgs, with a liddle in one ofitaeir fore feet, and with the other fore foot•hey played upon tne liddle, and fo theytlanced and 1‘ddied all the way until they camelato Wirtemberg market, the driver of themjdancing all the way before them, which madeihe people wonder : \fter the Doftor hadbatifised himfelf with the {port he conjuredU1 of the fiddles away, and the driver then20offered them to fale. and quickly fold themall, and took the money ; bur before he wasgore our of the houfe, Fauftus had conjuredall the hogs out of the market place and fentthem all home to the driver’s houfe. Theman who bought them, feeing all the fwinegene, flopped the man who fold them andwould have his money, which he was forcedto pay and fo returned home forrowful, andnot knowing what to do ; but to his greatfurprife, found all the fwine in their fries.CHAP. XIILHow Fauflus begun to bethink himfelf of thenear approach of his end,FAU-'TUS having fpun cut his twenty*four years, within a month or two, be¬gan to coufider what he fhoulcl do to cheat i"the devd. but could not find any waytopre-ivent his miferabie end whicn was now near, iwhereupon he thus cries out to himfelf, OhS jmiferabie wretch that I am. I have given my* lfelf 10 the devil, for a few years pleaiuie, and'low I mud pay full dear ; I have had my de-ires ; my filthy lufts I have fatuficd, and Ibe tormentea fur ever and ever.A neighbour of his, a very godly old manearing of his way of living, in compaffion ris foui came te him, and with tears in- fitsyes. befought him to have more regard to hisaolt precious foul, laying before him theromife of God’s grace and mercy, freelv of-red to repenting Tinners, aud fpake fo fetling-W that Fauitus fired tears, and promifed toim, that he would try to repent. This goodjitian was no fooner gone away but Mephefto-hiles found him pen five and on his bed, nowdepheftophiles mufter ng what had happenedgegan to reproach him with breach of cove¬nant to his Lord Lucifer and thereupon al-10ft t wilted his neck behind nim which madedm cry out very lamentably in the mean timemreatering to tear him to pieces, unlefs he re¬newed his obligation, which for fear, withouch forrow, he did, in a manner the fame assne former, which he confirmed by the later-21CHAP. XIV.How Dr. Enuftus was W7rned of the Spirt t<|prepare for his end.FAUSTUS s full time being come, thi/pirit appeared to him. and fhewed him ■his v riting, and told him that the next nighthe deril wou'd fetch him away, whit-made the Doctor’s heart to ake : But to diver;hirnfelf, he fer.t for fome Doclors and maftetbachelors of arts, and other fludents to tak<dinner with him, for whom he provided greatftore of varieties, with music and the likeBut a 1 would not keep up his spirits, foruthe hour drew near : Where upon his countenance changing the Doctors and ma tersof arts enquired of him the reasons of hismc’ancholinefs ? To which Fauflus answerd,My friends, you have know me thesemany years and how l have pra&iced allmanner of wickednefs; I have been a greatconjurer, which deveilifh art 1 obtained ofthe_devil ? and also to obtain power to doiwhatever 1 pleased I fold myfelf to the-devil for twenty.four years time, whichfull time being out tills night, makes me||full of horror, l have called you my frinds.*3to fee this my drradlml erv4 : and T pray letny miferable death be a warning to you ail,no V you ihi:iy die dtviiilh art of coninring %./or if once you begin it. a theufand to oneout it will lead you to the devil, whither I amhis night o go, whether I will or not.irhey hearing of this fad ftory blamed him ferrono aiiag it fo long, telling them if he hadmade them acquainted before hat theyjiought it might have been prevented. Heold them he had a defne fevcral times to:>ave difclofed this'intrigue \ but the devil tolddm, that if he did, he wonlu prefently fetchnim away j He alfo told them, he h^d a defireo join with the godly, and to leave off thativicked courfe, but immediateiy the devil ufedo come and torment him &c- “ But now,iith Fauftns, it is but in vain for me to talkf what I did intend, for I have fold myfelf tohe devil, body and foul is his ” No fopnernad he fpoke thefe words, but fuddenly it fellll thundering and bghtening, the like was ne-rer heard ; whereupon Fauftus vent into thei>,reat hall, the doctors and mailers flaying inshe next room, intending to hear his end.dbout twelve o’clock the houfe (hook fo ter¬ribly that they thought it would have beenown upon them, and fuddenly the \vindows*4houfe were broken to pieces, fo that they tremfbled andwigedthe feives elfewhere when upon;a great'clad of thunder, with a whirlwind the;doors flew open and a mightv rufhing of wind;entered with the hiffes of ferpents, Ihriks and:cries upon which he lamentably cried out.Murder and there was fuch roaring in the2;hall as if all the devils in hell had been their.When day light appeard, they took the bold-nefs to enter into the room, and found ~ hisbrains beat en out againft the wall, and thefloor fprinkled with blood; but miffing hisbody they went in fearch of it and found it onthe dung-hill mangled and mafhed to pices. Soended this miserable wretch’s life, forfakingGod, and all goodnefs and giver up to his im¬placable enemy which we hope may (land notonly as a fearful, but lading monument andwarning toothers.INIS.