THEVifions, Dlfcoveries and WarningsOF THEDreadful and terrible Judgements,UPONScotland, England and Ireland,WHICH WERE REVEALED TOJOHN PORTER of Crossibeig.Taken from his own Mouth, (while confinedto his Bed, being blind) and attefted byhimfelf, as by his Declaration annexed.Joel ii. 28, 30, 31, 32.Ud it Jhall come to pafs, that 1 will pour out my Spiritupon all JleJh, anil your forts and your daughters Jhallprophefy, and your old men Jhall dream dreams, and youryoung men foall fee ‘v'fions. And I will Jhew themwonders in the heavens, and in the earth, blood andfre, and pillars of Jmoke. The fun jhall be turned intodarknefs and the moon into Hood, before that great andterrible day of the. Lord. And it fuall -come to pafs,that whofoever Jhall call on the name of the Lord jhallbe delivered.r~. » t«*k« jn * • ■ -t mm ,G L A 8 G G W,PRINTED by J. and M. ROBERTSON,S sit market, 1799.G \( 2 )Viilon;, Difcoveries, Warnings and Judgements, See.IN a dream, being ftanding as I thought upon thebraes of Ayr, I went to a little height near the .town, and looking about to the city, 1 obferved two jcoaches all' black, going up the river fide towards thefouth, in fuch a quick motion, as if they had not touch- icd the ground, knd as I looked after them, there came *one to me, and afked me, What I looked upon? I,anivvered, Two coaches, the which I never law the •'blacker: He far’d, 1 will tell thee what thefe are, It is ;the devils going to combine together to go to Rome, ito make the Pope to fend Antichrill to Scotland, to rbring on a ftroke and get a fatal fall.2. At another time I apprehended a great light, and ’in the light I faw before me in large letters, <T£s Lord*is about to plead a controverfy wish Scot lank, Englandand Ireland for a defpfed andflighted Gofpel.3. At another time being awake, but being incapa-1ble to know where I was, I apprehended by a vlfion cflight, that I was in the open fields fitting by the high-'way fide : and faw a company of men walking by ftre,and eveiy one of them bad in his right hand a largebloody napkin hanging down, upon which I perceived’large letters, I afked the meaning of that which I fawupon the corners of the napkin ? I was anfwered. Itwas the names of the twelve apoftles of the Lamb. And,looking after them, I faw them come to the gates ofthe city, and as they entered in, each one took a bloodyclout out of his pocket, and threw it down at the thref-hold of the door-, with which they wiped their feet as,they went in ; then I afked, what meaned the clouts?I was ailfwered, It was the cufiorri in noblemen’s houfest’o have old caft clouts laid down at their doors to wipetheir feet as they came in; for no unclean thing (hallenter into the_new Jerufalem ; and then, looking in atthe gates of the city, I perceived a great number ofpeople in a larger room than I can exprefs, having e.very one of them a bloody napkin in their hands.4. After the fame manner, 1 apprehended I was walk¬ing thro'’ a little town, and faw, as it had been, a fewVifions, Warnings and Judgements, &c. 3icep and lambs forced out of a houfe, purfued by a dog,t»d raffing bytbe door I looked in, andfaw a lamb, whichapprehended was not able to follow the reft, then Ilaw one come to it, which 1 took to be its mother, andts I looked upon hdV, I favv one of her fides open, as ifit had been the leaf of a window, and thus looking, one;jcame to me, and afleed, What I looked upon? I anfwer-! led, A few iheep and lambs purfued by a dog. He faid*!I will tell thee what it means : This generation feeketh: jto detlroy my little flock, but ere long, I will give themanother bone to gnaw upon, for I will bring in theitk-ing of Spain with an invincible army for the abufe ofijmy gofpel, which was the renown of this land, and11 made it famous in other churches, for the miuifters ofthis church are turned into divifions and factions amongthemfeives; for which I will dafh them one againft an¬other. And as I looked I perceived a long roll comingto me, which lighted upon my knees, upon which Iperceived three lines drawn length ways, I underftoodthe letters, but not the words, upon which a man cameto me, and slked, What I was looking upon ? I an-fwered, Upon a written.roll, but could not underftandthe language thereof, ht faid, I will fhew thee themeaning thereof; I’ll bring again 11 this land a peopleof a ftrange language and a fierce countenance, whofefpeech thou lhalt not underftand, and they fhall marckthrough the whole land; to execute my judgements, fordefpifi «*; and flighting of my gofpel. I was a Iked a-gain,, What feed: thou ? I anfwered, A log of timber,with two running ft reams ; I was a (Iced, What was thecolour of them ? 1 anfwered the one is blackilh and dark,the other bright and clear. Then he bade me tafle theone that was black; and dipping my finger in it, Ifound it bitter. Then, he defired me to tafte thatwhich was clear; the which when I did, I found itfweet; he anfwered, The bitter is the cup that is putIn the hands of this generation, and the fweet is thecup that, the remnant ai*e to receive afterwards. Thenhe aflted, What wilt thou do for me, or rather, What.fliall l do for thee ? Then it came upon my heart withfnch power, that he cad an open door to plead both4 Vifion*, Warnings and Judgementsfhr myfelf and his remnant, (in which I found greatliberty,) that he would fpare a remnant and not maken full end in the day of his anger. At the fame time Ifaw four lines drawn before me, yhich ye will find inPfal. 2 2. si feed Jhall femice do to Inrn, unto the Lord itJhall he for a generation reckoned in ages all.y. Another time I was awakened out of my deep,with a great voice, which* faid unto me, This year (hallbe a year of great confulion, fuch as was not fiuce therear king Uzziah died ; for the mother (hall forget herfucking child, and the father the fon of his old age, forthere fliall be a cry made, to go forth and meet theSpanifli army, and he that goes forth to meet that army,ftiall not find a man to take him by the hand to a(k howhe doth ; and he that will not leave houfe and family,and go to the field for Cbrill and his intereft : for Iwill bring a (Iroke upon this laud, and none (hall efcape,from the king to the beggar, and that for many fins,particularly thefe three, •viz.. Broken and burnt cove¬nants, and the blood-fned of thofe that teftified againftthe fame, and a defpiied and (lighted gofpel.6. -At another time being overpoured with a greatlight, a confiderable writing was laid before me which Icould not underhand, but at length 1 perceived an ex-,preflion, viz. Come hear all ye that fear the Lord, andI will tell you what I am to bring upon this genera¬tion ; I have given you my gofpel in purity and plenty,for more-than forty years, in which I laid befofe them,all the biefiings pronounced in the book of Leuterono-inv, and all the curfes'pronounced on mount Ebal a-gsinft the difobedient, yet my gofpel lacked fome thingsamong them. There was fcveral things laid before me,which 1 cannot remember; and as I was turning fromlooking upon it, it was faid, Here was one thing thatwas lacking, viz. The light of my countenance ; I willraze this generation, as a man razeth a piece of groundto provide his turf, 1 will run upon this generation asa man treading mortar, running backward and forward,treading upon the highell. places ; And as l live, faiththe Lord, ‘Iher houfe of Eh Jhall not efcape. i. e. Thegreat ones (hail not befall for their greatnefs, nor theiupon Scotland, England and Ireland. 5i |oor for his poverty ; and that for the following rea-tjhns. The great ones were concerned in the making‘ If thefe covenants, and the poor alfo; and it ihall beli rsund that the great ones were concerned in breakingif them, and the poor likewife, and both were concem-d in the blood of thofe, who teftified again ft the break-tng arid burning of thefe covenants.7. I was at another time allowed to proclaim a com-Jjj nijfton, withal faying, There were minifters in the place,: vnd a fet of judicious men and Chriftians, who wereojnore fit than f, who am both blind and lame: to which?jl was anfwered as it were with an angry countenance,I have laid thee there for feven years on that bed, for. Ithat end I have'kcpt thee, which thou wilt not believe:'(jand if thou continue in' refufmg, I will (hew thee ex-_Samples, both from fcripture and experience, tlm I havedone to fuch as would not believe. Then came, to myremembrance, what he had done to the unbelievinglord at the gate of Samaria. Then he presented thecoir.miffion to me, go and proclaim a facrtfice in Boz-rah, which (hall come upon the land of Idumea, whichis thee, O wretched Scotland ! for I will call the fowlsof the air and the beafts of the field, to eat the flefit ofkings, of captains and of great ones, who have (lied theblood of my fervants, that teftified againft the breakingof thefe covenants, for I am wounded in my membersby this generation, and nothing will heal that woundbut a plaifter of the blood of thefe that wounded me ;which plaifter I am about to make up (hovtly.8. And at another time I perceived a great army be¬twixt Girvan and Ayr, all in black, and obferved a mov¬ing towards the land. Again I perceived another armyof foot, that came and took up their ground, and they(food each of them upon their own ground : and as Iwas mufing and looking with great concern upon thepi,I faw one all in white, who laid, Let not that troublethee, I will build thee a hire houfe, better than that vof fons and daughters, faith the Lord. Then I heard,another faying unto me, Be not afraid of that greatarmy, for thou (halt fee them no more. 1 had notmoved my foot feven yards, tiil I faw that army fall Une Vlfions, Warnings and Judgementsthe ground, as i£ they had been all ftruck as with oneflone. Then returned the vifion of light, which faid,Now I have let thee fee that great army of 266,000all fall to the grouchA memorable inftance not to be fi.jgot but to be amemorial of my return to the poor church of bcotlaaid,for my return ihall yet be great in this land, for I willhave no more ado with Antichrift in my church, for Iwiil give him a ftroke, and the report thereof fhall beheard thro’ the whole world.9. At another time, as I was viewing the viiion of light,1 perceived one coming down with a great ax in hfs righthand, and turning himfelf upon a itep. he fet his onefoot higher than the other, an$ the hand with the axcn his right knee, and fwore with an oath by him thatliveth for ever and ever; yea, ere long Britain (hallknow what is my'cqmmifiion with the ax : but let notthat trouble thee, for thou fhalt not. fee it.10. That at another time I heard, at a great di&anceabove me, as it had been one making a great moan, andanother faying, What aileth thee, child, to make fucha moan ? The child faid, Wre will all be ruined, for ourchurch is filled full of fuperftition and damnable herefies;It was anfwered. That needs not trouble thee, thoti haftnothing to do with that, it lies at the door of rainiffers,.let them fee to that; the child anfwered We fuftaththe pain and the lofs, for we will all be berried, forour church is full of thieves and robbers.x 1. At another time, lying upon my 1)41 waking, thereappeared to me, the likenefs of a woman with a ghoftlycountenance, which paffed with a great motion'by mybed-ftock, to the other fide df the houfe, and looking atme with an angry vifage, clapping her hands together,feveral times at me, and I overheard her, as talkingwith another and came over the fame difeourfe I hadwith another perfon that Thurfday before, and faid tothe other, He hath made .all the honeft people thatthey cannot hear his name named, and others to mockand have him in derifion, which will make him that hehad better be off the world than upon it. Then one dfthem alked me, What was that I had done? and repeat-upon Scotland, Englan^an^Trelan^^^^^^/:d tTie former difcdurfcs to me, and faid, Since thou■Jl jaft don* fo, I will le?rn thee a way to mend it, deny^thou laid fo, 1 anfwered. How can I do that! I have toldf jit to fotne that will be believed, tho’ I fhould fay to thenjcontrary: but he Hill continued with temptations andijiterrible threatnifigs, to that purpofe, till at lalt I waslimade to cry out, O Lord, rebuke him, for he will notJbe rebuked by me. Then all difappeared.12. That in Nov. 1729. I thoi^ht I was {banding inr the open fields, and faw a man coming to me with a big11 cup of blood in his hand, which when I beheld, He toldi j me, He had a commifiion, to divide that cup into Idler} cups among five cities: then I faw five cups in his otherhand, fo to be divided ; he named Edinburgh, Glafgowand Ayr : As for the other two, I do not pofitively re¬member them. Which bipod was to purge tbefe cities ofblood, for I will purge them till I bring my remnant t»fay, What have we to do any more with idols ?13. On the fame month I faw two living creatures hav¬ing fix wings, two covered their faces, two covered theirfeet, and with two thay did ny, and they cried, ffo/j, holyLord Cod almightf, glory be'to thee who hajl faid, I willrot give mjglory to another, nor my praife to graven image}.I will not give my gl#ry to Englilh, nor Irilh, to Frenchnor Spaniards, to Pope nor Pagan, but I will take theglory to myfelf, and will cover myfelf with a cloud inmine anger, that they lhall not fee my face, and I willrun upon min'e enemies, and tread them as mire in theftreets, and will fatiate the earth with their blood as withdung, and then I will take mine anger and the rod audtye them together, and throw them in the furnace.14. At another time it was laid before me, that it wasa token ofjudgementsto coinecpon the land, that t he mi¬ni tiers were fo unconcerned when the Lord was about tobring a defolatingHroke both by fea and land, the fmokewhereof firall be feen from one land tc?another, that infome harbours, there {hall fcarcely one houfe be left totell another. Yonder a fhip corning into the harbour.15. It was laid before me, that the Lord was about topurfue theblood of his fervants, f. orn theyear 1661 to thisday, and nothing^will purge blcpd but blood, and when8 Vifions, Warnings and Judgementsit is accomplifhed, it will he faid as the queen of Shebafaid to Solomon, that the one half was not told»of whatfhc had found. For 1 have two fwords drawn, that of a-foreign, and that of an inteftine-enemy, and if ye find a-ny favour, it will be at the hand of the foreign enemy.16. Atanothcrtlmel wasawahentdwith aery, faying.This is the fecond time 1 have come unto thee with thiswarning, but thou regardell moge the town talk of thecountry than my warnings, hut Twill make thee an ironpillar, and a brazen wall again* this generation fpealctherefore what I command thee, led I confound thee be¬fore them. 1 do not fay as before, a iacridce in Bczrah,but I fay a facriiiee in thee, wretched Scotland ? for Iwill dye the ground with blood from Gatb-hill, to Ir-vine'Water,*foi I witl purge my church of Popery andPrelacy, and all other errors, which are not accordingto the true principles of the church: For I will bring afmall army with a few minifters of the principles of themountain-men; fometime ago, nicknamed Whigs, andthey fhall be the true fe,cd of the church.i y. The reafon why I was fo defirons to acquaint o-thers with what was laid before me, was bee ante of thefore rebuke I had for neglefting it. 1 apprehended Iheard two men coming by the hou£f, the one faying tothe other, I have an old blind man in this houfe, I mudfpeak to him before I go any further; and turning myfelf .on my bed, I faw a young man in bright clothing,who faid to me, What I have laid before thee, deny itnot, but rnaintain it, and what thou had not fpoken,fpeak, and what other things I lay before thee concealthem not, whether they hear, or whether they forbear;they diall know that I have laid thee there for that end,and thou fhalt not want a reward, for I never bade anymau ferve me for nothing ; and if thou dilobey mycommiffion, I will fill thy bed with a fnlphureous fmoke,that none fllall be able to come near thee, and" led thoube difeouraged about where the fmoke lhall come from,I will open the moutlrof the bottomlcfs pit, the habi¬tation of thofe that difobey my commands, and let theefee what fnteke cometh out of it; upon which I was fo af¬frighted, that I came under a folemn promife, that whatupm S:3tiaai, ^..giaaa a.id rre:u»;!. ajh'c would keep upon my memory I fhould not concea tdio’ it cdft me my life : But it was faid untmaie, \Vli it|thou doil not i-emember- I will not charge thee for, ‘anfwered, I wanted health, I wanted fight, and to was un¬fit to pubiifii it, to which it was anf.vered, I fentthe n tothy bed-ftock, to receive what thou liadit to fay to-them,b\it thou didll not fpeak, buf took other obligations, thatthey fhould not fpeak what thou told them before.18. Jan. 12. 1730. Being awaked, it was faid to tut,I am as a bear bereaved of her whelps, that can neithermeet man nor beaft but tear them in pieces, I had oncea bonny bairn-time of bairns in Scotland, which they bereaved me of, fome of them they fent to foreign land.iarid plantations, others rhey drowned in the fea, othersthey, killed in the fields upon gibb’ts and fcaffolJs, forwhich I will d"ive them out of their houfes as fheep aredriven in a Itormy day before the itorm, feeking forflielter, but find none, I will caufe my mouth to gothro’ this generation, as a ftorm of fno\y goetlj thro’ awood, where the highelt trees and tfiickcfl branches re¬ceive rnoft of the norm ; I will leave theii .houfes with¬out rib or roof, and their fubftance, as corn in the fields,that hath neither corn nor chaff. And the fame day a-bout twilight, their fhined in a great light about me, fuchas I never faw before for brightnefs, which fo overpour¬ed me, that I knew not whether ih the body or out ofthe body, and it was faid to me, I am a merciful God,and lie that repenteth and fleeth to me will find a nx'r-ciful God, and fuch as will not flee to me for mercy, byfbrlaking their fins, the "generation to come (hall not re¬member that there was fuch a generation in the place.1 have a remnant in this place-, whom I will whip as afather doth his fon that ferveth him, I will not deal withthis church as I have dealt with other churches, whomI have left never to return again, as the feven churches ofAlia, for I haveki remnant of men and women in this land,fuch as I have not found the parallel of in any church be-fide, which have taken fail hold of me by their prayers offaith, they have fatlened their grips fo, that they will notlet me go, for the cry of their prayers hath come up be¬fore me, and outreached the cry of their fins, fot which/•Nio Vifion*, Warnings and Judgement*I will make the voice of the prayers of my remnant tobe heard H*mich acclamations of joy, as ihall make thevery earth rebound and echo, and the delivery fo clofeafter the ftroke, as can nardly be difcovered, a fimilewas given ms, of two bullies growing fo ciofe together,that the one could not be difcerued from the other, un¬til they were cut down and drawn afunder.Kj. Upon fabbath about cock crewing, I was awak¬ened out of fleep.with a fliarp rebuke, thus, How oftenfhali I rebuke thee, for concealing the defolatiug ifrokecoming upon the land, which 1 laid before thee fo often,for which thou had brought thyfelf very near that word,* He that denieth me before men, him will I deny beforemy Father which is in heaven Yet I own thee to befaithful, particularly the lall morning when I fent twomen to thy houfe, thou difcovercil to them what I laidbefore thee, that they may know that it came from me;I ovvn that my remnant have taken hold of. me by prayer,that they will not let me go, for which my remnant willbe fo great in the land, that hoafea to dwell in, or apiece of land will be as ill 'to get as it is at tin-, day. Atthe fame time it waa laid 'unto me, I know the reafonthou art ft» loth to tell my rebukes, it is becaule of re¬ports and country talk, for I bear it i: the report oi fotne,that what thou Ipake it was wrong; but this generationfhall know whether it was right or wrong fpoken, butthou muttered it as men do gear thief-ftolen, whichdurft not be avowed, but remember, Him that confelkthme before men, him will i eonfefs before my Fatherwho is in heaven, and therefore lay forth my commit-lion before the world, let them take it as they will.20. As I faid to thee long ago, there was not fuch ayear lince that wlien king Uzvn’ah died, as fhall fallout at thistime, and in a few years, which is to let you know, that timeis my own. No man is to know it further than I pleafe. Iwill tliew particularfigns to theworldof tidal yearcoming,but ye fhall not know when they come, nor the nature ofthem, for they Ihall fpeak forthemfelves when they come.31. Jan. 13. At night, being awake, I was inilantlycart into a deep fleep, and it was faid unto me, I havecad thee into a trance to difeover things unto thee ; andupon Scotland, England Ireland,i white /heet, let down froy. a great hertI faw a white /beet, let down from a great height torithe bed-lide, tied at the four cornertj, and fettled as 1thought upon sny knees, and falleaing ray eyes opon it,I faw upon one fide, a part of every fart of fowls, andat the other tide cut pieces of fleih, and'as I was think¬ing upon it, it was fa-id to me, I will tell thee the mean¬ing, the fowls are the generality of tir» generation, andthe fifth is the remnant, width is to let thee fee, thegood and bad live in one community together, and noneof them will efcape my ftreke that will come upon thisland, for I ara provoked to anger by this generation itithis place by the following fins, pride, whoredom, cuff¬ing, fwcaring, lying, Herding, and walking contrary tomy commands every way, that I am provoked even bytheir buying andfeUing, for which I have two rods, therod of mine anger, and the rod of rfly, jealoufy, where-8 with l will even purine them to the wiklernefs of Zin, andthere will I let them fee the want of bread and water.'2 2. Anothertime, being awake, there was voice fpoketo me,faying, That the ifle betwixt Kintyre andCarrick,fhould occafion great blood both in the eaft and weft ofScotland, and particularly in the fouth of Garrick; thenI perceived four (hips, which received a commiffion tocome to Lochkillicran, called the fiti^s of Tarfltifh, whichwere to rare this place, by burning houfes, which fitouldmake the inhabitants to flee' to the mountains, they thattake hold of me by prayer for their refuge, will be fafe ;but tbofe that take not hold of me for their (belter, tho’the common enemy fhould not pnrfue them, yet they (hallnot efcape my judgements which I will inflidt upon them,whether by peftilence or any other ftroke ; for there aremany (hips gathered hither, fome for plunder, fome foraceomplifhing the ftrokc, yet they (hall be all brokeirandfcattered by very fmall means, particularly I apprehendedone fmall (hip, which fought a great parcel of thefe (hips.23. In the fame month, as 1 was fitting in my bed, Ifaw as it. bad been the fhape of an ax, laid before me in thebed, all cm (bed together in one lump, and the houffelofit out of all fliape, and while I looked upon it, it was faidunto me, I will (hew thee the meaning, this is the king ofFrance his armies which (hall be made that they (hail nci-Xi Viuons,■‘Warnings attd Judgementsliter cut nor fell in the time when he hath molt ado withthem.. A little tHereafter, in the morning, in a furprizingmanner, it wan faid to me, I have got more lot's in mychurch by the king of France than by any prince in Eu¬rope, for he hath brought my church in that land to a ve¬ry imall '••'miiant, (if any) for which I will make him asthe top of a rock that hath neither grafs nor earth.24. Being aflefip, I apprehended I buy a man, as I waswalking in the fields, coming to me, I alked him,.Whathe had in his hand? Fie nnfwered, It is a crown, I haveoften made offer of it to thee and thou refufed it; I faid,I do not defire a crown, neither would take it, he replied.Go on in revealing what I have laid before thee, and thou 1hi alt not want 'by reward: But if thou refufe to declarewhat Hay before thee, i will make thee an example, inchas there never was the like laid on a bed before thee.Faftning mine eyes on the man at a diitance from me, Ifaw a great Hone fall on a hidden, as from the very clouds*betwixt him and me, and he faid, As thou hall feen thisHone fall on a hidden, fq I will bring the flroke upon thisgeneration: but yet they will not believe it; till it come jto their very doors and thou flialt not fee it. , .2*J. Jan. 16. [730. It was faid to me, I fent thee one ,of the bailies qf Campbelton, to whom thou difeovered i, many things, which had been laid before thee, and he com- jing home did not conceal the fame ; which made the mi- jnitlers and fomejathers come to thee, to whom thou alio ■gatm a large account of thingslaid before thee, which theyhave not difeovered, except to fqme principal men of the |city, and in fo doing, they have wronged this generation. §j26. At another time I faw a creature, the likenefsofa. fowl, and as I wo mired what it could be, I heard as f|if it had been the voice of one afking what I looked Ut IIpon ? 1 faid, A fowl, but cannot underhand \vhat it is. ||I was anfwered, This is the red dragon fpoken of in theRevelation, which fought with Michael and his angels,which was the occafion of thefe bloody napkins on which Wthou fawell the names of the twelve apollles and theJ..amb, which I-lhewed'thee a great while ago, I was r j,a/lced again, What feed thou? I anfwered, a white throne;sud It was replied, The Lord hath creeled a throne u-■ •'tupon Scotland, England and Ireland. 13•pon tlie earth, for the Lord hath f^jd, h >viil comedown, and fee if the fins of the land be accot iing. to thecry thereof, if not he will know, for he is about to exe¬cute his verath upon this land, tor many fin , particularlyfor breach of covenants between man and naan, and be¬tween nation and nation, and perfonal covenants at histable: but efpeciajiy the fo'emn league and covenant,which was made in my name, for which I will pour outiriy wrath; but I have a remnant which (hall elcage, for1 thefe ends, left the enemy fhould mock and fay to them,Ijil is this the reward of your prayers and failings, and com¬munions, and all the niceties you hav^obferved, fince it1 fares with you as with us? I have kept you fo many years1 blind, that my remnant may underftand, that it was.nptdifcovered by any other light, for it is gone abroad amongmy enemies, That an old blind man that hath lien fomany, years upon his bed, is made to difcover alj thefefecrets and defigns : which makes them ailoniftied.27. Feb. 1 About two in th6 afternoon, being furpriz-h ed with a great light, it was faid to me, Mutt 1 be ac-t) countable of my delivery to thee, fo jhou for thy receivingfrom me, muft {land before the judgement feat of Chrilt,and vvitucfs thy delivery to this genration. I know thouithaft omitted a great part, which thy memory could notil contain, for which I do not quarrel thee. I take heavenijand earth to witnefs/ that 1 am laying before thee the fallill of Babylon, and ruin of Rornifh Arttickriu. I was fo tak-" en with thefe words, that I made my appeal, that f wouldconceal nothing that he would keep upon my memory.Then I was anfwered, I am preparing a facrif.ce in Ba¬bylon, which will make the fowls of the air, and beadsof the field to eat the flefh and drink the blood of Antt-chn’fl, according to that feripture, Rev. xvi. 2, &c. For1 have a remnant that will take warning, arid leave herfins which (hall efcape her judgements, but there is anunaccountable multitude which I will fweeg away in hereflrudtion : for thofie whom the fword (hall leave, thefamine and pettileuce (hall find out, and I will bring a na-ioft, fuch as was not in my laud fince the vifitation injUireland. The fun and moon (hall be concerned, ashey were at the time when Ifrael avenged themftlves14- Vifions, Warnings and Judgement*on their enemies. ^AIl this I had in the vifion of light.. <28. Another time I faw a man coming to me, whofaid, He had no great commiHion at the time, only, thedevil had taken his journey, to excite and llir tip theinitruments, who were to accomplifh the defolatingItroke and fall of AntichrUl in this land.29. Feb. 9. After the fame manner I heard one faying,I will drive this generation in my anger, as the fmoke of a .furnace is driven, which no nmi can gather or bring backwhere it was; for I will make their afheslike a furnacethat burneth, which, when it is pad, men go and look int'j ]the furnace, and can fee nothing but afhes; for the moltpart of this generation makes a mock at all my warning* ' jof judgements, but they fhall all be accomplifhcd withina few years, as I have told thee in fo:Vie warnings before.Jin.- 13. Theft fins, breach of covenant, and Satan’s fn*which cad him cut of heaven, &c. At the fame time, I ifaw a man, as with a drawn fword iu'his hand, who faid, l ;am come down to take peace from the earth, and to pro- , ;■claim war againft Antiehrift, See. by Michael and his an¬gels with this fword, with which l have given him onellroke already. And I heard another angel crying with aloud voice, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, and is become thehabitation of devils, Rev. xiv. 8, $cc. For Antichrift hath ralfumed tohimfelfthe nameofbeingChrift’s Vicar, whichis Chritt’s equal: whereas I have no equal neither will have »'anv man have tliat name on earth. I will root out Anti-ch f .1, and it lhall be with him as with die world at the .lalt day, when 1 will difiblve it into nothing, it frill tie- 'ver take root again, which I will ihortly accompliih. i30. Feb. 11. tVhile 1 lay upon my bed, about two ofthe clock afternoon, the vilion of light appeared fo great,'that I thought then: was no houfe above, only clothes,and 1 heart' a voice faying, As I am in heaven, and thou 'upon the earth, lying upon thy heel, I will give this gen- -eration a llroke, that all the doctors on the earth cannot ,cure. Then I apprehended a5 man walking by me with. ,a feal in his hand, r *1 he flood fill, and lifted up hisright hand, and fwore by him that livetlrfor ever and 1ever. That he had often foretold, but they would notbelieve, but mocked at all the warnings, neither wilt thon •upon Scotland, England and Ireland. ijfrelieve thyfelf; but thefe that will not believe, I willread «= mire in the rireels, which (hall be accomplishedn a few years I had alfo in clear letters laid beforetine, Fight and overcome^ three times repeated. \ td^notlrer faid, What (hall we do : To whom it was re¬plied, He that will not fight, (hall not oven-come.3 i. Feb. 17. Near fun-fetting, 1 was furprized with agreat light, and while 1 fat beholding it, one nppearedi o me, faying, I wiil tell thee the meaning of the light,* is to let the world fee, it is not by natural light all thefeihings are revealed''to thee; for I have taken away thelleffer light, and given thee the greater infiead thereof :1? have found thee faithful in proclaiming my cominif-ipons, which hath been withdood by fume in th^ place,;at be they great or (mail that withftand thee, go thoun in fulfilling the name of a comnyffioner, lt d I call theev a more dreadful name, and as thou hrfi: difeoveredreat things, 1 will (hew thee greater things, whichou (halt deliver alfo. That faint night I was awak-ned from my deep with a great light, I faw, as if theloads had been open, and in a bright cloud, I heard(lit voice, faying, Glory be to our God, that is our .Godpon the throne, and to the Lamb which hath takennto thee thy great power, and hath reigned, who hathlodged the great whore that (itteth on many waters,hich hath made the kings of the earth drunk , with theine of her fornication, as (hehath made them drunk withhe cup, fo f will make all the kingdoms of the worldith the blood of her deftmdlion. And I heard anothery, Thou haft riglitly judged iter, for (he delighted inhe blood of thy fervanta, aad thou haft given her bloodo drink. Then I heard a great lamentation, mourning,ndcrying, to which, while I liftened, it was find, I willell thee what that great cry rneaneth, it is the deftruttionf thefe who received the m-sirk of the beaft on their right-and and foreheads. Then there appeared to me a vafteld of ilain nmn, which none could number, and theirjlood running upon the earth. Th«n*I faw as it were aihrone ereefed in heaven, and on it, one like unto then of man, clothed with a garment down to his feet,nd girt about the paps with a golden girdle, faying, Re-i6 Vifions, Warnings ana Judgementsjoice over tier ye heavens, and ye prophets, and ye holyapodles, for God hath avenged you upon her. And amighty angel, took up a (lone like a mildone, and call itinto the fea, faying,,Thus with violence fhall that greatcity Babylon he thrown down, to be found no more at all.32. Feb. ? i. It was laid before me in printed letters,That the Lord was about to plead with Antithriil forthe bloocT-ihed of his fervants by him, fince he had a be¬ginning, which he wotdd inftance in thefe nations follow¬ing, Germany, Bohemia, Piedmont, France, Spain,'Bri¬tain, and Ireland, and particularly the bloody houfe ofAuilrin, and for what was done in the Netherlands, whichwas made defolate not for their own quarrel but for mine,becaufe they would not deny me; and acknowledge the „Pope to be head of my church. At the fame time it was Ifaid, I will raze the kingdom of Spain as the top of a |rock, that hath neither food fot man norbeaft, but I will Ilird bring him to Britain, to avenge me of mine enemies,!and for the injuries done me and my church there, andVthen I will take the rod and throw it in the fire, and *curjed be that man that refufeth to go forth, and bathe £his IfT.srd in the blood of Antichriil. f33. At another time, I perceived a man walking with ;an inkhorn by his fide, and a pen in his hand, and wheI fattened mine eyes upon him, he faid, I am to fet a -mark and feal upon the followers of the Lamb, to dif-- 1tinguilh them from tliofe that have the mark of thebead, in the approaching and defolating ttroke.34. At another ti.ne'it was laid before me, by threefirlniles, what he would do with Antichrift, the firilwasa*,fillier drawing his net, and every fitti that wanted fins andfeales, he tljfcew into the bottom of the fea, where theyfi'ere never found any more ; the fecond was of a mail*throwinghardit asraintt thethetak|ing a handful of fand, andwinds, that it was never feen or hard any morethird was a man cutting, down a field of corn, who ieftin me italics Handing and fume falling, and afterwardsfeeking for feed in thefe ftalks, he found them all con-fumed and rotten in the heart. At the fame time agreat light appeared unto me, which made me muchconcerned, and it was faid to me, I havejouched thyUpon Scotland, England and Ireland. 17ips for this end, that thou may accomplifn the ccm-i ilhon I have delivered unto thee ; declare thou to thisI “fi^ration, That they fliall look to the foutli, and feetie SpEU'.ifh army great and very cruel; for they IhaHi a according to that feripture, Amos v. The. aiy that' :3S cuthy a thoufandfhall leave a hundred, ar.d ihe city that/ei y a hundred jh all leave ten to the heu/'e of Tfra el,ith the Lord; yet notwithftanding, I will caufe mynihant in this land to bathe their fvvords in fire blood: Antichrift. I faw in a vifion, that Chrih’s churchuft gow-into the furnace, and there be purged, for. heill have a pure church, or ho church at all, lor he willwe his church purged from all the defiling errors andt iperttitous heretics which he hath been often broughtnderby Antichriftia'n prelates, for he will have his churchid. fpoufe a chafte bride unto him. Then I faw a manrming unto me with a crown in his hand, who faid,’his is the crown which Chrift’s church /hould receivethe day of her efpoufals unto him, bccaufe AntLchriiltb enlarged hell with the fouls of thofe whom he hathawn away with his fuperilitious idolatry, 1 will takeito me my great power and reign, and throw him intoe lake of fire, which burneth with fire and brimftone,35. March 21. I faw a man palling by me, who allied' hat I faw in his hand ? I faid a crown. Immediatelyreturned the fame way, and I faw fomething in hiso-er hand, but could not underhand what it was, where-)on heanfwered, Youhave an oldtradition in yournativend, That the righteous heir to the crown, is commonlyown by the liar on his fide, fo this in myhand is the liarlereby I am known to be Heir of my Father’s crown,here is an antichrifiian party, who dclign to rob rny Fa-er of his kingdom in this land, and I am my Father’s on-Son, the Son of his love, and who hath holden forth toe world; and who is more obliged to hand for.the in-reft than the Heir? They have defamed my fpoufe and,ide, by calling her a menftruous woman with whomme may converfe, and who is obliged to own the bride,itjhe bridegroom ? As I live, I wilj ride my horfe to thenjis in the blood of A11 rich rift. For as great as theirqsyf is, w hich ist combining among the Antichriilian par-I? Viaons, Warnings and Judgementsty, I can break them all without the ftroke of a {Word'lland for as low as they think my intereft in this land is, I*will let them fee, that I have a party that will appear I«s£aii)it them, whofe armies I will make to profper. . I36. March 22. There appeared a man walking byiffie, and 1 alhed where he was going? He anfwer d, Afkfablefiing for this land, before the ftonn and dot* creaksupon it, which is jud at the breaking. Another anr|jfwered and faid, It is well done, for there will be ncedljfor it, for before the {form be at an end, there fiiall he||many broken planks and boards among ns. And paf-l1fang by again, he was alked. Whither he was going ?|jhe aufwered, He was going to beg the Spirit of God tpithis lautd and minifters, for it was withdrawn at the tiipeJiThen he pafTed by me again, and had like a piece of af!|broken pitcher in his hand ; and being afked what hqSjwas going to do with it, he replied, He was going tot jmake it new again : The other anfwere/d. It was neverknown that any old broken pitcher or pot was made new!bat he palling on, returned immediately with it wholein his hand, and faid, This is to let you fee, that althn*they ftiouH break all my church to (hivers, I can renewit again. Then it was faid, All that is gopd, but thatdoth not latisfy us, if thou return not thyfelf again, Heanfwered, I will certainly return ; for I will be broughtback by the vvreillings and prayers of the faints.37., March 24. It was faid to me, I have laid beforethee many fimiles which were thought ftrange. I willtell thee another ilrange ftmile, concerning the men whOidepend on the world for their flicker in the enfuing ftroke::I compare the world to an old rent mantle, which a man:taketh about him, in a ftormy day, he draws it up to:cover his head, and his feet are all bare, and when'diC:wraps his hands in it to cover himfelt before, it is rive®all behind, and his b^ck is.all bare, it is fo narrow, letfcim do what he will, there is more bare than covcred. j38. March 26. About the middle of the day, I few,in a vifton, a man of a very high ftatore and angry coua-tenance, faying, That this land and people had wrong*cd him of hiis name and title, which pertained to him, aifupreme head of the church, in that they uad nicknamedupon Scotland, England and Ireland. 19;(inn by the name of the curfed prelate, and hath given merather name, vrhich they call. Fanatic. Then there ap-ier.red to me another man, of a very Comely geftare,( ho enquired. Who it was that fpoke with me? I anfwer*I?, I cannot teH. He faid, I will tell thee, It is Anti-irift,+vho is difpleafed for wronging his name, and then>ake tTmay Praiie be to him that rides in heaven, by hisr ame JAH, his name for ever and ever (hall endure: andtpeated many names which the Lord takes to himfelfstl e was fuel: a fhining geilure, as I cannot venture to ex-efs. This I faw under the vifion of a great light-39. That fame night about ten o’clock, 1 was awaken¬ed out cf deep, with a furpriling light, as if there had •efeen no houfe above me, but the clouds all in light; and1 bile I was admiring it, I heard one faying to me. Look; bant thee, which when I did, I few a great cloud com-g from the fouth, very black and great, it neitheripuched the clouds above, nor the earth beneath c thenJe faid, That cloud is a combination of France, Spain,taly and Rome, for ruining Britain and Ireland 1 I an-.vered. What (hall we do in fuch a dark time of fuch areat cloud, which we are not able to refill r he faid. Yerod do as a man doth that hath a fvrarm of bees whiche cannot get commanded : he taketh a veffel and caft-h water amongft them, by which he maketh them falln the ground, and fo they neither fting nor wrong him,ntil he putteth them into the fkape which he hath de-gned for them. Then I feid, What water can we callpon fo great an army that can harm them ? He anfwer-;d, The vengeance of almighty God; To which I. an-r:leered, Can we take the water, or command the. ven-B etwee of almighty God ? He replied, You mud call to)‘l lod by prayers in faith, for he keeps the cup of ven-rti eance in his own hand, and will throw it in amongt lent, which will make them all fell to the ground likeees, and thty (hall not move until he put them into thelace which he hath prepared for them, which is theI ottomlcts pit; there they (hall ding his people no more:I or the Lord will do with this great army, as a man cot-pth down his hnrved, when a storm arifeth hi regardeth:ither highitefe nor foulncfs, fo that he cutteth dwn20Vifions, Warnings and Judgement?more in one hour, than he did in a whole .day before.Then faid I, Lord, what will I do in fuch a dejeftedcondition, for I promifed that I will conceal nothing,and I know they will not believe me? And he faid, Yehave an old proverb, Seeing is believing, all the worldover ; I will let them fee it, and if feeing will not makethem believe it, I will make them feel it, for that whichtoucheth a man he believeth it. Then I faid, How canI difeover it when my memory cannot contain it by agreat part ? He anfwered, I create the ear to hear, andwill give thee memory that thou mayeil deliver to thisgeneration as much as will leave them without excufe,or to fay, that I brought a ftroke upon them, withoutgiving them warning: I know many will mock till theybe infatuate, that they fhall not know their enemiesjfrom their friends: therefore, go thou on in warning,and I will make good my word to thee. Then I faid,I have found more of thy word in former difeoveriesthan I can find in this : upon which the word was laidbefore me, God my J'alvation is became. See. And furtherhe faid, This may be among the lail I’ll trouble thewith, tho’ it be not the lea It. lam fully affured, I wasnot afleep at this time, but received the eommiffion, and)faw the vifion with fuch deep irapreffions under tfaajlight, which I forbear to exprefs to the world.40 April 1. About ten of the clock at night, a gre^light fhining about me, it was laid before me, that he was,bringing a great army of French, Spaniard, Romifh, angta part of every nation about them, to bring a ftroke on,this lantl for broken covenants, or flighted gofpel, and.the abounding fins of the .land, and the blood of thoGfwho teilified to the covenants, for, faith he, 1 will make;tire earth full of the blood of my enemies in this land!Rut I know a great many in this land will join with .them, but fuch ihall fall with them, fo as to have neithername nor remembrance in it afterwards. But I havejreferved 7000 men that hSve not bowed the knee tos 1Baal, which dial] be the feed that fball do me fiyvice fnthis land. I will have a glorious church in this, land,: 'which (hall be admired of all the earth.41. April 2. It was faid to me.Flow long fhail this.21upon Scotland, England and Ireland,cneration defer to hear my warnings? I will make thisnd without bread or water, for I am more concerned;.r this land, while they forbear to hear my warnings,ran for the wildernefs of Zin, wherein no man dwells,’hiss land (hall be brought to that pa(^ that one (haUardly find a man to afk how he fenned in the dorm.42. Aprily. Aboutthe middleofthe day,there appear-i d to me a great light, and it Was faid unto me, I have noreat commiffion for thee at this time, being to go to thei orth of Scotland to tell them, That now their cup is full,I nd ere long it (hall be as empty as ever it was full; forrany of them (hall never have a full cup in this place a-ain, and it feems to be one of the lad warnings.43. April 15. It was faid unto me, I have given out anig roll of warnings, but this generation hath mocked aticm, and now I am to go to the main land of Scotland,! ndto tell them, that thofe warnings they receive from thislace darkly, (hall (hortly be'accomphfhcd, for I have amuant of tender hearted Chriilians here, who will lay itj heart, but this place is.Jiardened by mocking and fcof-ng, fo that any tender hearted Chndian, dare not let itknown they lay it to heart, led they be mocked byicir neighbours. But this generation (hall have fewmoreilarnings, till they be warned by the fword in their ownofoms! The (ird year (hall lay the land defolate. Their- fign is to put their pretended king upon the throne,ut they (hall as foon put the wild fox that runs in theIood upon the throne, as they fliall put him, or any ofiAt race upon it, as^my fervants, hanged on gibbets for) ihering to my intered, having tedified and declared/j 44. April 21. In the evening of this day, I favv.the ap-lirarance of a man, who faid unto me, you have had aing dimmer fcafon in this land, but ye have been like theaggard, when he faid, Confider the ant thou (luggard,hich prepa,r£th her food in the fummer, and is fixt forte dorm. A truly good hulbandman, when he meetswithgood feafon, does not ly by and mifimprotfe his time,t cuts dowm and gathers in till he have all fecured with-the fence, and cloieth up the Haps, and then he is fix-1 for the winter didrefs, would ye were often withatleon and David in the held of prayer. I have given*2 Vifions, Warnings and Judgementsthee two warnings to the north of Scotland already, 1will give you another. The,barley cake tumbling int<)the camp of Midian, and turning down their tents. 14.5. In the evening of tliat fame day, the light wai;exceeding great for a long time, I beheld a roll bu|could not underftand a word of it, upon which one faiefto me, I am fent from heaven to tell thee, that this i|jthe light of heaven, but ram to give warning of a darlfnight to come on Tritain and Ireland! I coudefeendedlinot long ago, to lay out figns, and propofed months anil]days, but ye mocked and made light of it, but I ihalPnow give a fign, and ye fhall no where know yeareJmonths, weeks nor days, but when it comes ye fhall altfee it, for the fun and moon {hall fall in one courfe, b4'jwhat further is to be feen I will refer till the vilicm fpealtlfor itfelf, for there was never man law fuch a night oftdr.rknefs, for there (hall neither be moon light norlight through the whole three kingdoms, from the on<rend to the other and all lhall feel that darknefs.46. May 6. It was f§id to me, arife and appear asi£thou wert shout to prepare a fnip, and when this gener^jtion dial! -aik what thou meaneft? thou lhc.lt anfwcr, lt.i*for you to go to the South-fea, and view what a greatfleet is preparingto invade Britain and Ireland, and if theyregard not thee prepare a fecond, and when they aik thf ,mea-niugruifvver in the like manner, and if tlrey regard notthat, make a little boat which needs no fails, and if the]).ad:, What thou moaned by fuch a little boat, then fay,thou, The lead fifliing boat that goes about the rock tecatch nlh, lhall i'ei veyou to go the length to fee that iicef ,which is coming. Lay this-before this generation, leflthey fay that I came upon them without warning. A47. May 7. In the morning there appeared befotfme, a light and two men walking before, the one had <})it were a fword in Ids hand, and as I looked at them.|all ditippearod at the time: and in the latter part of th* >day, the fifron returned, and fixing my eyes upon thi ,two men, the one had a great fword in his hand tlyf |had neither hilt nor bars, upon which I was allied, wM ■I thought of that n*an with the fvvord in Lis hand ?could cot tell, for he looked like a gourd angry mar I;upon Scotland, Eugfand and Ireland. 23d Irad fteel liarndling from head to foot, he replied,is is to tell you that he is a man able for all that op-fe him, and needs neither hilt nor bar, to cut downj» generation and fave a remnant, Then I anfwered Innot fee how a man, with fuch a fword, and in fuchge as he feems to be, can fave a remnant, to wKichwas replied, I will let thee fee that prefent!y, then Iat a diftance from me as it had been a company ofn, and he faid there is a company of men, and the manth the fword had one fon in the company, upon whichffaw the man begin and cut down the company withfword, and none efcaped till he came to his own fon,d as he was fetching a ilroke at him he did not runay nor deirft, but grafped him in his arms, and cried,|e merciful father, I am your own fon, and when heard the voice of his fon, he let the fword fall till themt {lack in the ground and never touched him, thenheard as if the one had faid to the other ? How canbelieve fuch warnings as thefe fpoken by fuch a man,en it is reported by men of great (kill that he is outorder and of a light brain ? The other anfwered, Ithe root and offspring of David, the bright morningI hold the feven ftars in my right hand, who darer,UBto me whatdoeft thou? And when I have a warn-g to give 1 choofe whom I pleafe to give forth myarcing, if my warnings bear not my feal, and be not" wording to my word, they quarrel it, but they are notimeerned with the commiflioner, what condition he be, that is nothing to you, and you have no more an-’er to expert from me at tins time.48. Upon Friday following, I was warned by a voice,iat he was preparing a facrifice in the Iflarjds of Britainid Ireland, particularly in the Highlands of Scotland,en I heard one faying, O that this generation, bothen and women, would believe this and lay it to heart,hat a time this will be when they fhall be awakened,at of their deep, and poffibly fee nothing' but theirughbours houfes all in a flame if not their own. Thishave laid before you in the name of tlie Lord.49. In 171,6, in the vifion of light, I thought I wasa pkafant field, and there appeared unto me a man24 Vifions, Warnings and Judgements, ?zc.in white fhining raiment, faying unto me, What feelthoui I anfwered, A bufli full of branches and bloffomiThen he bade me draw near, ^j,nd lo ! in a moment it.all withered and decayed, except the heart of the buflijI ilood if ill till the buflvwas cut down by the rootwith a feythe, at which I wept fore. But, in a iittljtime I beheld a bufh fpring up out of the heart of thflock, far more beautiful and glorious than the firthen I afked him the meaning, he anfwered, The fir|bufli thou faweff ,is the prefent degenerated apoflatizeichurch of Scotland, which I will fvveep away in midanger; and whereas thou fa we 11 a biilh fpring up froJthe root of the former bufh, this is the remnant thathave refei ved to myftlf in the defolating flroke vvhielfhall be the feed of my church, whofe purity, beau®and glory fhall be fo great, that the very.hills and mom)tains lhall ring with the report thereof. AmttuThi request of John Porter, to all ’who fh ill have occafi\to hear or read the foregoing Difcoveries and Warnings, jIEarnflly defire all >who Jhall either hear of, or Jhdhave occafton to read what has been difcovered to me, amJ, in ole, lienee to the command given me, have communicMed to others from f.rjl to lajl, according as it is revealed hihefe few pages. That they receive them not as the prodttL^of my own contrivance, or invention from Ughlnefs of bnor melancholy, a' fame have tahen the liberty to forge- / declare, That nolwithflanding of my Uindnefs for foMa time, I am ripe in jny memory and judgement, and / anfid!' afore d o) the way they were delivered untome. 11altejl that I received them with fuch power as l cannotprefs ; and that I do not offer to impofc upon the prefMgeneration, l dare appeal with confidence unto God,whom Imujl Jhortly give an account of my receivings alfdifcoveries, and not to any man.J JOHNPORTER'GLASGOW, Printed by J. & M. ROBERTSONSaltmarket, 1799.