THEWITTY AND ENTERTAININGEXPLOITS OFGEORGE BUCHANAN,COMMONLY CALLEDTHE KING’S FOOL.airrotfi/JATaaTza qza yttiv/, ,<10 TioJiza: - ,z azi h '3 i o aofloa1 'c r" ■,'•v.UUiJAO TJ/'Oli'KO'J,*70O’! "* T-'Hr;■.feiiajjaf.i >oa airr ao'i a nzia'iTHEWITTY EXPLOITS;; MR GEORGE BUCHANAN.PART I.Mr George Buchanan was a Scotsman born, andIthough of mean parentage, made great progress in^learning. As for his understanding and ready wita he excelled all men then alive in the age, that everu proposed questions to him. He was servant orliiteacher to king James the VI., and one of his pri-Fl vate counsellors ; but publicly acted as his fool.1. It happened one day that a young airy noble-i man went into the king’s garden to pull a flower<} for a young lady he fancied ; George followed at aI distance, so when the young man found a flower heill fancied, he would not pull it himself, but to find itI again, without farther search, he covered it with hisit hat, and went away for his sweatheart. No sooner! was he gone, but up goes George, lifts his hat, and( pulls the flower, then eases himself on the spot,| covers it with the hat again, and away he goes,fl Soon after, the young gentleman returned, leadinghis sweatheart to pull the flower below the hat;3 but as soon as he lifted the hat, and saw what wasbelow it, he looked like a fool; and the lady flyingin a passion, sets off, and would never countenance4him any more. The young gentleman being sadly tvexed an this affront given to him by George, sent jhim a challenge to fight him, appointing clay and!place where they were to meet. Being to fight onhorseback, George gets an old stiff horse, and forharnessing, covers him about with blown bladders,with small stones in each, without either sword orspear ; and away to the field he goes, where theduel was appointed. So when George saw hisenemy coming against him, all in glittering ar¬mour, armed with sword and spear, he made up tohim with all the speed his horse could carry him;when the small stones in the bladders made sucha rattling noise, that the gentleman’s fine geldingwould not stand the battle, but ran away, andthrew his master to the ground : which caused allthe spectators to laugh, and say, the gentleman wasmore fool than George. The gentleman being stillmore enraged at this second affront, he would fightwith George on foot; but his friends persuaded himthat it would be no honour for him to fight and killthe king’s fool; and far less to be killed by the fool.So they were advised both to agree. But the gen- -tleman would try another exploit with George, forto have it said he was still the cleverest man,viz To hold him a jumping-bout publickly, the .next day thereafter. With all my heart, says ’iGeorge, and we will end in and about where we !began, they not knowing his meaning in this.The place and hour being set, where they were to ;meet next morning. George in the night-time, 4caused a deep pit to be made, and the earth of itcarried away ; then filled it up with dung from ap , and covered it over with a green turf, thatit might not be known by the other ground. So,according to promise, they both met in the morn¬ing against the appointed time. Now, Georgebeing the oldest man, and by them counted theogreatest fool, the young spark permitted him tojump first, which he according to order did, andjumped within a foot of the place where the ground* was falsified. The young man seeing this, madei I his performance with great airs, and all his might,I. so that he jumped a foot over George, but, up toi' the oxters among clean dung! whereat, the wholei multitude of spectators cried out with huzzas andlaughter. Now, says George, I told you we would: end in and about where we began, and that is in1 clean dirt.2. On a time after this, the king and his courtwere going into the country, and they would have(George to ride before them in the fool’s dress ;whereunto he seemed unwilling, but it was theking’s pleasure. So George was mounted upon anold horse, with a pair of old riven boots, the heelshanging down, and a palmer coat, patched overi i with pictures of divers kinds. George rode beforeilthem in this posture which caused great laughter.land diversion, until they came to an inn, wherei: they alighted to dine, and in the time they wereat dinner, George went into the stables, and withI a knife cut all their horses’ chafts, not sore, but soi as they might bleed. Now, as soon as dinner was’ over, and they mounted on their horses again,i George riding before them as usual, in his palmer( coat and old boots, they began to make their game; of him : then George turning about suddenly, andclapping his hands with a loud laughter, the kingasked him what made him laugh so ? Laugh, saysi George, how can I but laugh, when horses cannot( hold their peace ? 0 my sovereign, says he, dontI you see how your horses have rent their chaftslaughing at my old boots! Then, every man look¬ing at his horse’s mouth, they were all in a rageagainst George. The king, causing George todismount directly, and charged him never to let6him &ee his face on English ground. Now, Georgeknowing that nothing could reconcile the king at:this time, he came away to Scotland, and caused,them to make a pair of great hoots, and put aquantity of Scottish earth in each of them, andaway he goes for London, to see the king once'more. He hearing the king and his court was to<pass through a town, George places himself up in.an old window, and sets up his bare a—, to theking and his court as they passed. The king beinggreatly amazed to see such an unusual honour doneto him, was curious to know the performer : so hecalled unto him, desiring him to come down ; andfinding it to be George, sir, says the king, didnot I charge you never to let me see your faceagain ? True my sovereign, says George, forwhich cause I let you see my a—. But says theking, you was never to come on English groundagain. Neither I did, says George, pulling offhis boots before the king, behold, my Sovereign,it is all Scots earth I stand upon. The king andhis court being greatly diverted with this merryjoke, George was admitted again to the king’sfavour.3. After this there arose a debate betwixt theking and the queen about votes in the parliament;as the king had two votes, the queen would haveone, and would needs be a parliamcnter, or nopeace without preferment. This matter was com¬mitted to George by the king; so it was agreedamong the parliamenters, that the queen shouldbe admitted into parliament for a day. Accord¬ingly she came, and was received with all thehonour and congratulations that was due andbecoming her high station : but before any matterof consequence was brought to the board, Georgeseated himself hard by the queen’s seat; all beingsilent, he rose up very quickly, lifted one of InsI legs, let a loud f 1, Trhich set the whole house1 a-laughing ; whereat the queen was greatly offend-| ed, and said, go, take the rogue and hang him, toM which George answered, a fine parliamenter in-1 deed, to hang a man for a sinless infirmity, andU that’s a f 1. The queen being enraged at theI affront put on her first appearance in parliament,1 went off in a passion, and never would countenanceI them more. But yet to be revenged on George,M she would never give the king rest, till he deliveredtil George into her hands, that he might be punishedlij at her pleasure ; which the king accordingly com-Smanded to be done, knowing that George wouldrescue himself by some intrigue or other. Nosooner was she delivered jnto her hands, but sheand her maids of honour pronounced his doom,which was as follows:—As he had affronted thequeen among so great an equipage, who ought tobe honoured in chief above all women in the! nation, that he should be stoned to death by thehands of women. Now the time being come thathe had to die, according to their appointment, hei was taken into a park, where a great number ofwomen were waiting for him, with their apronsfull of stones, to fall upon him, and put him todeath according to the queen’s appointment.- GEORGE’S SPEECH TO HIS EXECUTIONERS.Here’s a female band with bags of stonesTo kill a man for rumple groans :I’m clean of rapine, blood, and thefts,Could I convert my f s to rifts ?Since I, the first for f s do die,Close up the place from whence they fly,To commit my crime, I think ye’ll scarce.If once you do cork up your a—.And now since women stones do carry,Men need not in the world tarry.$'‘"NJudge if such wCmeii be chaste complete,With forty stones between their f— ;But since ’tis so ye will come on,The greatest w throw the first stone.When he had ended with these words, “ Thegreatest w throw the first stone,” every oneput it to another to cast the first stone, but know¬ing they would attain the character of a w forso doing, they all refused till the dying hour waspast, and then he took a protest against them, andby that means he gained his life. After this hewas admitted into the queen’s favour and presence, :and attended the court as formerly.4. About this time, the French king, in order'to pick a quarrel with the court of Britain, sent aletter to the king, desiring it to be read before theparliament: and the writing was as follows ; “ WillI come? Will I come? Will I come?”—Thisletter being read before the king and his courtiers, ;they all concluded that the French king designed ;to invade England; therefore they ordered ananswer to be wrote, upbraiding him with the jbreach of peace, and putting him in mind of thelast treaty. The answer being read before the 1king and his nobles, they all agreed that it shouldbe sent off. But George, smiling, and shaking \his head, cried out,Many men, many minds,Who knows what he designs'?Then they asked George what the French king Imeant by such a letter ? to which he answered, 1suppose he wants an invitation to come over to jdine with you, and then return in a friendly man- 1ner ; but you are going to charge him with a breachof peace, before he has given any signal of offence •or war : his letter is indeed dark and mystical, butsend him an answer according to his question.0| Now, C4eorge being ordered to write tbe answer, it| was as follows :—“ And ye come—And ye come—And ye come.” This being sent to the Frenchj king, he admired it beyond expression, saying, it) was an answer more valiant and daring than he| expected. So the enmity he intended was extin¬guished, and turned into love.5. It happened once, that a malignant party inScotland sent up a great spokesman to the kingand parliament, for the reducing of the church ;I George hearing of his coming, went away and met1 him on the bridge, and the salutation that lie gavehim was the cutting off his head, and throwing itover the bridge! He then ran to the king withall his might, and fell down before him, pleadingif most heartily for a pardon, or without it he was aIdead man. The king most seriously asked himwhat he had done now ? To which he answered,he had only thrown the Scots Bishop’s hat overI the bridge, which made the king to laugh, to hear| him ask pardon for such a small fault; but he hada no sooner got the pardon sealed by the king’s hand,| than he said, indeed my sovereign, I threw hisI hat over the bridge, but his head was in it. 01 Geordie, Geordie, says the king, thou wilt nevergive over till thou be hanged.6. A nobleman, in England agreed with thef king how to put a trick upon George, to try hisf manly courage, in sending him to a certain placefor a bag of money. On his way home, throughf St James’ park, they caused a sturdy fellow to goand set upon him by the way, and take the money! from him. The fellow being armed with sword[ and pistol, came up quickly, and attacked Georgewith these words, You, sir, deliver what moneyI you have, or you are a dead man. To whichGeorge answered, sir, I have some indeed, but| ’tis not my own, and therefore do not like to part10with it: nevertheless, since being determined asyou are, to exchange blows for it, pray do me thefavour to fire your pistol through the flap of mycloak, that the owners may see I have been indanger of my life before I parted with it, whichhe accordingly did. No sooner had he fired thepistol, than George whipt out his hanger frombelow his cloak, and with one stroke cut off hisright hand, wherein he held his sword, so that bothhis sword and the hand fell to the ground; butGeorge lifted his hand and carried it to the king.No sooner did he come before them, but theyasked him, saying, well, George, did you see anybody to trouble you by the way? None, said he,but one fellow, who was going to take the moneyfrom me, but I made him give me his hand hewould not do the like again. You did ? says thefellow’s master. Yes, I did, says George ; letwork bear witness, throwing down the fellow’shand on the table before them all.7. Now, this last exploit of George’s causedmany of the English to hate him ; and, among thorest, a young nobleman fell a joking of George,saying, he would be as famous a champion forScotland as Sir William Wallace was. Ay, ay,says George, Wallace was a brave man in histime.—True indeed, says the young nobleman,but when he came to London, we did him allmanner of justice, and for honour of the Scots,we have his effigy in the s to this very day.And do you know the reason of that, says George ?No, I dont, says he. Well, I’ll tell you, saysGeorge: he was such a terror to Englishmen,when he was alive, that the sight of his pictureyet makes them p themselves. The Englishtook this answer as a great affront, and forthwithcaused Wallace’s picture to be taken out of alltheir s ,118. A young English girl falling in love with aScotchman, she petitioned him several times for tomarry her : which he refused. So, to be revenged, on him, she went to a Justice, and swore a rapeagainst him, which is death by the law. Georgehearing of this, went to the prison where the youngi man was, and instructed him how to behave beforei the judge. So in the time of the trial George, came in while the judge was crying to the man,but never a word he could get him to answer, toi tell whether he was guilty or not. After the jus-i tice had given him over for deaf and dumb, others| fell a shouting in his ears, but never a word het would speak. Then the judge, perceiving George,. I called him, saying, George, do you know what is|, the matter with this man ? Yes, I do very well,says George. What is it ? says the judge. Why,Isays George, the woman made such a noise andcrying when he was ravishing her, it has put thepoor man quite deaf, I assure you. Is it so ? says; the justice. No, no, says the woman, my Lord: Justice, you may believe me, I lay as mute as aij lamb, and never spoke a word all the time. Verywell confessed, said the justice, and you havesworn a rape upon him. Take the w  to■ prison, and let the poor man go about his business,and so it ended.PART II.George happened one time to be in company with; a bishop, and so they fell to dispute anent educa¬tion, and he blanked the bishop remarkably, andthe bishop himself owned he was worsted.—Then: one of the company addressed himself to him ini these words : thou, Scot, said he, should not have1 left thy country. For what ? savs he, because thou1-has carried all the wisdom that is in it thitherwith thee. No, no, says he, the shepherds inScotland will dispute with any bishop in London,and exceed them very far in education. Thebishops then took this as an affront, and severalnoblemen affirmed it to be as the Scot had said:bets were laid on each side, and three of the bis¬hops were chosen, and sent away to Scotland todispute it with the shepherds, accompanied withseveral others, who were to bear witness of whatthey should hear pass between them. Now, Georgeknowing which way they went, immediately tookanother road and was in Scotland before them.He then made an acquaintance with a shepherdon the border whose pasture lay on the waysidewhere the bishops were to pass : and there hemounted himself in shepherd’s dress: and whenhe saw the bishops appear, he conveyed his flockto the roadside, and fell a chanting at a Latinballad. When the bishops came up to George,one of them asked him in French what o’clockit was ? To which he answered in Hebrew, itis directly about the time of the day it wasyesterday at this time. Another asked him, inGreek, what countryman he was ? To which heanswered in Flemish, if ye knew that, you wouldbe as wise as myself. A third asked him, in Dutch,where was you educated ? To which he answered,in Earse, herding my sheep between this andLochaber. This they desired him to explain intoEnglish, which he immediately did. Now, saidthey one to another, we need not proceed anyfarther. What, says George, are you butchers?I’ll sell you a few sheep. To this they made noanswer, but went away shamefully, and said, theybelieved the Scots had been through all the nationsin the world for their education, or the devil hadtaught them, Now. when George had ended this13dispute with the bishops, lie stripped off his shep¬herd’s dress, and up through England he goes, withall the haste imaginable, so that he arrived at theplace from whence they set out, three days beforethe judges, and went every day asking if they werecome, so that he might not be suspected. As soonas they arrived, all that were concerned in the dis¬pute, and many more, came crowding in, to hearwdiat news from the Scottish shepherds, and toknow what was done. No sooner had the threentlemen declared what had past between thebishops and the shepherds, whom they found onthe Scots border, but the old bishop made answer,and think you, said he, that a shepherd could an¬swer these questions ? It has been none else butthe devil; for the Scots ministers themselves couldnot do it; they are but ignorant of such matters,a parcel of beardless boys. Then George thoughtit was time to take speech in hand. Well, mylord bishop, says George, you call them a parcel ofignorant beardless boys. You have a great longbeard yourself, my lord bishop, and if grace wTeremeasured by beards, you bishops and the goatswould have it all, and that will be quite averse toScripture. What, says the bishop, are you a Scot ?Yes, says George, I am a Scot. Well, says thebishop, and what is the difference between a Scotand a sot? Nothing at present, says George, butthe breadth of the table, there being a table betwixtthe bishop and George. So the bishop went off ina high passion, while the whole multitude werelike to split their jaws with laughter.2. About this time there was an act of parlia¬ment for the benefit of murderers, that any person,[who committed murder, if they forfeited five hun¬dred marks, which went under the name of Kin-boot, because, so much of this went to the mur-|dered person’s nearest relations, as the price of14blood, the murderer got a remit. Now Georgeknowing this to be contrary to Moses’ laws, wasvery much grieved to see so many pardons sealedby the king’s hand for murder, almost one everyweek ; it being so usual for the king to subscribethem, that he would not read them, nor enquirewhat they were ; for which cause, George writes awrit to the crown, and sent it to the king to besubscribed, which he actually did, and never lookedwhat it was, returned it to George. No soonerhad he received it, but he goes to the king andtold him it was not time for him to be sittingthere, whereat, the king greatly amazed, startedup ; then George in great haste, sets himself downin the king’s chair, forthwith declaring himselfking, saying, you who was king must be my fool,for I am now the wisest man. The king at thiswas greatly offended, until George shewed him hisseal and superscription. But from that day forth,the king knew what he subscribed.3. The next pardon that came to be sealed bythe king, was a gentleman who had killed two menbefore, and had got pardons for them by money.This being the third, the king wTas very silent inlooking over the petition: George standing by, :asked the king what he was going to seal now ?To which he answered, it is a remit for a man whohas killed three men at sundry times, I gave himtwo remits before. 0! says George ; he has killedbut one man. And who killed the other two?says the king. You did, says George, for if youhad given him justice when he had killed the first,he had killed no more. When the king heardthese words he threw down the pen, and declaredthat such an act to save a murderer, should benull ever after by him.4. One day, George having no money, he goesaway and gets a pick and a spade, and then falls adigging at a corner of the king’s palace ; which theking perceiving from his window, calls what he waswanting there ? Are you going to undermine myhouse, and make it fall ? No, my sovereign, saysGeorge, but it is verily reported that there is plentyof money about this house, and where can it be ?says George, I cannot find it, for it is not withinthe house to do me service, then surely it must bebelow it. 0 George! says the king, that is a craveafter the new fashion, what money you want I’llorder for you. Then, my sovereign, says George,I’ll dig no more5. One time George being in the country, hecame to an inn, where he alighted to refresh him¬self and his horse. The innkeeper charged himdouble price for every thing he called for.—Georgenever grumbled at this, but gave him all demands,and away he goes on his journey. At the innwhere he quartered the following night he wasused after the same manner, if not worse. Hav¬ing little farther to go, he returned next day, andcame that night to the inn where he refreshedhimself the day before. So, when he alighted,the boy asked him what he would give his horse ?What you will, said he. When he had gone tohis room, the waiter enquired what he would haveto drink ? What you will, says he. The masterof the inn came into his room before supper, andenquired what he would have for supper ? Whatyou will landlord, says he. After supper, and ahearty bowl to put all over, he went to bed. Onthe morrow, he rose very early, and called for theboy to make ready his horse in all haste, for hewas designed to mount and go directly. Soonafter, he went into the stable where the boy was,calling for his horse, when he mounted with allthe speed he could, and gave the boy a piece ofmoney, saying, here my boy, this is for taking1()care of my horse; I have paid for all I haveordered in the house, and off he goes, Aboutmid-day he alighted again at an inn to refreshhimself and his horse, and there he chanced to bein company with his other landlord where he wasthe night before, and charged him with the doublereckoning: so he addressed himself to him in thefollowing manner.—Sir, says he, I do believe 1was in your house yesternight; 0 yes Six’, says he,I mind of you pretty well. And where was youlast night ? Last night, says Geoi’ge, I was in oneof the finest inns, and the civilest landlord I everhad in my life : they brought all things that Istood in need of unto me, without calling for them ;and when I came off this morning, they chargedme nothing, and I paid nothing but sixpence tothe boy for dressing my horse.—Blood and wounds!said the old fellow, then I’ll go there this night.Ay, says George, do; and mind this, when theyask you what you will have for youi’self and yourhorse, answer nothing but What you will, Sir.Geoi’ge smiling within himself, to think how hehad got the one extortioner to take amends of theother. So this innkeeper set off on his journey,and x’ode so late that night that he might reachthe cheap inn, that most of the people wei’e goneto bed before he arrived. As soon as he dismountedfrom Ids horse, the boy enquired at him, Whatshall I give your horse, master? To which heanswered, What you will, boy. The boy hearingthis, runs away, (leaving him and his hoi’se tostand at the door,) up stairs to his master’s room,crying, master, master, What-yon-will is comeagain:—0 the rogue, cries he, wdiere is he ?—I’llcane him—I’ll what you will him by and by.Then to him he runs with his cane, licks, andkicks him until he was scarce able to mount hishorse, and would give him no entertainment there,17which caused him to ride the whole of a cold win-ter night, after he had got his hones all heat andl bruised. So the one pursued the other as a mur-r derer; and his defence was, that he was a cheat;j and a scorner of his house, until the truth was: found out.6. About this time, the French king sent, and| demanded from the king of England, three meni of different qualities. The first was to he a mightyI; strong man ; the second a very wise man ; and thethird, a very great fool; so that ho might haveif none in all France to match them. So, accord-i! ingly, there were two men chosen; the one ai strong man, and the other a very wise man, hutI George was to act as the fool; nevertheless hewas the teacher of the other two. On their wayto France George asked the strong man, what willyou answer the French king, when he asks if youhe a strong man? Why, says he, I’ll say I am.Then, says George, he’ll possibly get a stronger. man than you, who will kill you, and affront your;( country: what shall I say then, said the strongman ?—Why, says George, tell him you are strongenough untried. Then said he to the wise man,, and what will you say to the king when he asks if: you are a wise man? Why, I’ll tell him I am,and answer him all the questions I know :—Very) well, says George, but what if he asks you what( you do not know ? then you’ll affront your coun-rj try, and he looked upon as a greater fool than me ;| well, and what shall I answer then ? said the wiseii man. Why, says George, tell him he is only ai wise man that can take care of himself: and Ishall come in after you, and take care of you alto¬gether. As soon as they arrived at the king ofFrance’s palace, the king sent for them, to tryI them. The strong man was first called for, and. in he went; then the king asked him if he was a18strong man ? to which he answered, O king! 1 amstrong enough untried. Very well, said the king.After him the wise man was called ; and the kingasked him if he was a wise man? to which heanswered, he is only a wise man that can takecare of himself. Very well, says the king. OniVhich, George pushed up the door, and in he wentwith loud laughter, and p  directly in hisMajesty’s face, which blinded botli his eyes, andput the whole court in amaze. Now, now, saidhis Majesty, it is true enough what the wise mansays, for if I had taken care of myself, I need nothave been p  upon by the English fool. 0ho, says George, fools always strive to make foolsof others, but wise men make fools of themselves.By this, his Majesty seemed to think he was madethe greatest fool, and charged them to go home,for ho wanted no more of England’s strength,wisdom, or folly.7. One night, a Highland drover chanced tohave a drinking-bout with an English captain ofa ship, and at last they came to be very heartyover their cups, so that they called in their ser¬vants to have a share of their liquor. The drover’sservant looked like a void man, going withoutbreeches, stockings, or shoes, not so much as abonnet on his head, with a long peeled rung inhis hand. The captain asked the drover, howlong it was since he catched him ? Ho - answered,it is about two years since I hauled him out of thesea with a net, and afterwards ran into the moun¬tains, where I catched him with a pack of hounds.The captain believed it was so, but says he, I havea servant the best swimmer in the world. 0 but,says the drover, my servant will swim him to death.No, he will not, says the captain, I’ll lay two hun¬dred crowns on it. Then says the drover, I'll holdit one to one, and staked directly, the day being19appointed when trial was to be made. Now the! drover, when he came to himself, thinking on what,a bargain he had made, did not know what to do,i : knowing very well that his servant could swimi none. He hearing of George being in town, whoi iwas always a good friend to Scotsmen, he wenti iunto him and told him the whole story, and that■ ihe would be entirely broke, and durst never return! home to his own country, for he was sure to loseit. Then George called the drover and his mani-aside, and instructed them how to behave, so thatthey should be safe and gain too. So accordinglythey met at the place appointed. The captain’sman stript directly and threw himself into the sea,taking a turn until the Highlandman was ready,rfor the drover took some time to put his servantS‘n order. After he was stripped, his master tooklis plaid, and rolled a kebbuck of cheese, a bignloaf, and a bottle of gin in it, and this he boundlion his shoulders, giving him directions to tell histfwife and children that he was well, and to be surejhe returned with an answer against that day['jse’nnight. As he went into the sea, he lookedwlback to his master, and called out to him for hisfi claymore. And what waits he for now ? says the[ captain’s servant. He wants his sword, says his? master. His sword, says the fellow : What is heto do with# sword? Why, says his master, if hei meets a whale or a monstrous beast, it is to defendhis life: I know he will have to fight his waythrough the north seas, ere he get to Lochaber.Then cried the captain’s servant, I’ll swim nonewith him, if he take his sword. Ay, but says hisaster, you shall, or lose the wager; take youanother sword with you. No, says the fellow Inever did swim with a sword, nor any man else,Ithat ever I saw ©r heard of, I know not but thatwild man will kill me in the deep water ; I would20not for the whole world, venture myself with himland a sword. The captain seeing his servant*afraid to venture, or if he did, he would never seenhim again alive ; therefore he desired an agreementwith the drover, who at first seemed unwilling,but the captain putting it in his will, the droverquit him for half the sum. This he came tothrough George’s advice.8. George was met one day by three bishops,who paid him the following compliments ; says thoifirst, good-morrow, father Abraham ; says the se¬cond, good-morrow, father Isaac ; says the third,good-morrow father Jacob. To which he replied,I am neither father Abraham, father Isaac, norfather Jacob ; but I am Saul, the Son of Kish,sent out to seek my father’s asses, and, lo! I havefound three of them. Which answer fully con¬vinced the bishops that they had mistaken theirman.9. A poor Scotchman dined one day at a publichouse in London upon eggs and not having moneyto pay, got credit till he should return. The manbeing lucky in trade, acquired vast riches ; andafter some years happening to pass that way, calledat the house where he was owing the dinner ofeggs. Having called for the innkeeper, he askedhim what he had to pay for the dinner of eggs hegot from him such a time ? The landlord seeinghim now rich, gave him a bill of several pounds ;telling him, as his reason for so extravagant acharge, that these eggs had they been hatched,would have been chickens ; and these laying moreeggs, would have been more chickens : and so onmultiplying the eggs and their product, till suchtime as their value amounted to the sum charged.The man refusing to comply with this demand, wascharged before a judge. He then made his caseknowui to George, his countryman, who promisedto appear in the hour of cause, which he aecord-i ingly did, all in a sweat, with a great basket ofboiled pease, which appearance surprised the judge,who asked him what he meant by these boiledpease? says George I am going to sow them. When'will they grow? said the judge. They will grow',tisaid George, when sodden eggs grow chickens.(Which answer convinced the judge of the extrava-Igance of the innkeeper’s demand, and the Scots-rnian was acquitted for twopence halfpenny.! George, one day easing himself at the corner ofa hedge, was espied by an English squire who be¬gan to mock him asking him why he did not keckledike the hens? But George, whose wit was always'.ready, told him he was afraid to keckle, lest howould come and snatch up the egg, which rebuffmade the squire walk off as mute as a fish.)| George was professor of the College of St An-jurews, and slipt out one day in his gown and slip-■pers, and went on his travels through Italy, andSeveral other foreign countries and after sevenrears, returned with the same dress he went off'.n ; and entering the college, took possession of his| seat there ; but the professor in his room quarrelingnm for so doing. Ay, says George, it is a very! >dd thing that a man cannot take a walk out in■uis slippers, but another will take up his seat.And so set the other professor about his business.T wo drunken fellows one day fell a beating onei mother on the streets of London, which caused aIrreat crowd of people to throng together to seevhat it was. A tailor being at work up in a gar-llet, about three or four stories high, and he hear-ing the noise in the street, looking over the win-low, but could not well see them ; he began totretch himself,, making a long neck, until he fell■lown out of the window, and alighted on an oldtflnau who was walking on the street: the poor tailorwas more afraid than hurt, but the man he fell off ,died directly. His sou caused the tailor toapprehended, and tried for the murder of hifather ; the jury could not bring it in wilful mur«der, neither could they altogether free the tailorthe jury gave it over to the judges, and the judge!to the king. The king asked George’s advice ii|this hard matter. Why, says George, I will givjyou my opinion in a minute ; you must cause th$itailor to stand in the street, where the old gentle*,man was when he was killed by the tailor, au'fl,then let the old gentleman's son the tailor’s adver-leary, get up to the window from whence the tailot I.fell, and jump down, and so kill the tailor as hedid his father. The tailor’s adversary hearing thi?sentence past, he would not venture to jump oveithe window, and so the tailor got clear off.George went into the mint one day, when the\were melting gold. One of them asked George, i: ,he w’ould have his hat full of gold ? George readilj |.accorded, but it burnt the bottom out of his hat, a:they knew it would, and for the bout foiled Georgai IHowever, George, to be up with them, bought Ifine large hat, and caused a plate of copper to biput betwixt the hat and the linen : and returningnext day they jestingly asked him, if he woullhave another hat full of gold ? He said ho would! iThey gave it red hot, and George now laughed asthem in his turn ; telling them, that his new h^ iwas a good one, and stood fire better than the old ione, and so carried it off honestly, and being after fwards prosecuted for to return it, he excused hinn|,self, telling the judge, that he took nothing butwas given him, and therefore he was honourablyacquitted, and the other heartily laughed at.George being now far advanced in years, an( bfobeing weary of the great fatigue and folly of thcourt fashions, a short time before his death, hi23'had a great desire to visit bis native country, andthe place of his nativity. Therefore he petitionedi the king for permission to do so which wasgranted. So he set out for Scotland, and went tothe parish of Buchanan, in Dumbartonshire,I where he visited all his relations and friends.—r But George staying longer from court than theI time allowed, the king sent him several messages: to return, to which he returned no answer. Atlast the king sent him a letter threatening, that ifhe did not appear before him in the space oftwenty days he would send his Lyon Heralds for’ him ; to which George returned the followinganswer.My honour’d Liege, and sovereign King,Of your boasting great I dread nothing:On your feud or favour I’ll fairly venture ;Or that day I’ll be where few kings enter.And also gave him many good admonitions anddirections concerning the government of his king¬dom and the well being of his soul; which drewtears from the king’s eyes when he read it.■WILL SCOTTA celebrated attendant upon the Sheriff, wellknown for his activity in the execution of hisorders, as well as for taking a bit comfortable! guzzel when finances would afford it, was oneSabbath day snugly seated in the pew behind theBailies at church. Will had not been there longI till he was soon lull’d into sweet slumbers, andfancied himself seated along with his companionsover a good Imperial Half-mutchkin, and in ashort time the reckoning came a-paying, whensome of the party insisted it was already paid;however, Will happened not to he of that opinion,and true to his integrity, bawled out with all his;might in the midst of the sermon, “ No, no, bymy faith it’s no pay’t, we have had just a’e halfmutohkin, an’ twa bottles o’ ale and there’s no ;fardin o’t pay’t.”GRAVE-DIGGER OF SORN.The Grave-digger of Sorn, Ayrshire, was asjselfish and as mean a sinner as ever handlemattock, or carried mortcloth. He was a veryquarrelsome and discontented old man, with a voicelike the whistle of the wind thro’ a key-hole. Ona bleak Sunday afternoon in the country, an ac- ■quaintance from a neighbouring parish accostedhim one day, and asked how the world was movingwith him, “ Oh, very puirly, sir, very puirly in¬deed,” was the answer, “the yard has donenaething ava for us this summer, if ye like tobelieve me, I havna buried a levin’ soul this saxweeks.”THE END.