HISTORYOFMOLL FLANDERS,WHOWAS BORN IN NEWGATE.and during a life of cm tinueti varietiestor threescore \ears,Was twelve years a Whore,Five tirres a Wife, where; f once io herOWN BROTHER !Twelve year*, a ! hief.Was eighteen Mines in Brulewell,Foity times in ether prisons,Fifteen times wliipt at the cart’s tail,our times burned in the hand—Once con¬demned for life,Eight years transported to Virginia,vnd at last grewr rich,—lived honest, andDIED A PENITENT.STIRLING:Printed by W. Macnie.1823.M ' -V ' ■ ■ ’ • /' ■■•'K ■ /-.*1 >^ ^ V. . V ■'... +■■ ■■■*S'-ifl/•, - ?■, ■. vr-.^V •*.THEHISTORYLL.(FHE most remarkable accoiint thattan give of my parents is, that| father wag hanged for felony andI mother transported for the same,t she was delivered of me iu New-: from whence I was taken uy some;gypsies whom Iat Colchester ingistrates takingme to a nurse ; vteen years, till sithen being fanremember, and leftEssex ; wherf* taecompassion on me/ith whom I live-, tlich time as she died,<cied by a rich gerwoman for my fine needle-worshared i»a the education ofherdauglin learning to dance, speak French,playing upon music,thesequalificatogether with my beauty, caused,lady’s eldest son to pretend love t<and at last with his alluring sp?cjand powertul gold, his melting kijand affectionate premises that he w|marry me as soon as he came ti5t prevailed upon me to surrender myrrginity up to him, and to use mehensoever he pleased; but scarce arai had expired before that his young-t brother pretended love also ; in sucht open and honest manner, insomuchat all the family took notice of it.ow I should make a wife to him, and; the same time be a whore to theJest brother, I could not tell without;ing ruined; as loving the former totrremity, being with child by him, but| shore, there hippening such disputesetweenthetwo brothers, it had like tojive driven me from the family, butie eldest brother consented I shouldI arry the youngest as not caring toi arry me himself, behold I privately;»edded him who the first night he!*.nie so drunk to my bed, that t easilyursuaded him he had done what his'idest brother had done before him,J In two years after he died, leaving»e with twe children, who were taken»tre of by his p arents, and having theni tolerable good fortune in my owninds, I married a Draper, who’ soonas forced from me for lebt into France,ihich obliged me to take a lodging m6the mint, where, in a widow’s habitto k upon me the name of Mrs. Flalders. Here I -vas courted as a mistresby several lewd men, but all these |scorned, and it was my good fortune tmarry a gentleman whose estate was iVirginia, and whom I deceived by prttending to him I was a grearer fortunthan 1 really was. But indeed hproved a very good husband, and prij'ialep with me to go over with him int®f/irginia, where I was kindly receivedpy my husband’s mother. But here Inound that our family was of the New-iate train, she shewing me where shevas burnt in the hand, bidding me notvender ? for that mayor D was anminent pick-pocket, Justice B rvas a sliop lifter, and Tom W —-r.iho had so narrowly escaped the nub-ling post was there become an excel l-; nt dissenting preacher.!| Here I lived about three years with-Jut having children, but not withoutm inward re norse’ as knowing myl econd husband was not dead. Andihis set me upon returning again intoEngland, teasing my spouse for thatpurpose, who wanted to know verymuch the true reason of it. But I toldjjus mother who came to pump me,shat her story she had told me of his:>eing transported, confirmed rtie in thejitelief she was my mother, who wasdelivered of me in Newgate, and byWhich means she was saved from thei allows. This very much surprisedp.er, but dreading the thoughts oi hav-jng another child by my husband, l wasfo. :ed to disclose the matter to excumy coldness to him in his embracesUpon hearing this he fell into so deepmelancholy that twice he attempted t*hang himself, but was prevented ; ancit was with very muchdifficulty beforI could obtain leave to return to England from him, which I did in tmonth of August after eight years co:tinuance in that country, landingMilford Haven, in Wales, and in ninweeks arrived at London.Some time after i went to Badi,whermaking my circumstance? known, mlandlady lodged and -boarded me atvery cheap rate, till the spring, whenwas courted by a gentleman who hadwdfe distempered in her head and Iceived several presents from him, ashundred guineas at one time, & fiftyanother, for taking care of him in ajillness. In short 1 found him my befriend, taking several journies withhintill at length he got me with child, anwas delivered of a fine boy, going bthe name of Sir Walter Cleave’s LadfFrom Bath we leturned to Ha mismith, near London. Six years I live:with this gentleman, by whom I ha}iII|ree cbiHren, till af length he fell sick. a house he had taken for his wifed tarnily ar Bloomsbury. But upons recover v I found that I was slighteddoubt, through remorse of con-:ence. Yet he sent me a letter withs unk note of fifty pounds, promisingi would take care of my Little boy,it wa: ting to getthe other fifty pounds. him, l igned a general release, wincht an end to this ffdr.But it was not long bef ffc it was myI'lrtune to get an acquaintance with aiirk belonging to the bank, whosei fe having made him a cuckold by|eping company with an officer of theniy. and after t at with an apprenticelionging to a Draper. I ha l Jke toiwe become his bride, pro ising on|ir account, to get a. divorce from hisper wife.?But whilst this was doing, going(Jiwn into Lancashire, and being ima-ped to be a fortune of fifteen thou-pd pounds I was married fo an Irishtleman, by a Romish Clergy man ;t he finding that I had no sue;', -'fleets,I, like a false wo nan na • ; r Seatedto him, nor he any estate more than10what he had spent in his equipage :courting me.Ke therefore lent me as much moneas would bear my charges up to Lotdon, discharged me from the irarriagjleft a letter for me upon the table, awent away the next morning. Btafter he had discharged, i is servants 1murmd at night t<! my joy, and aC3frpam< d me as far as to Dun stab'where weaUerward parted after mutuiinstruction had pasted for our fututcourse of life.Ac London I lodged at an old mkwife’s, as being big trhh child, wlier h(as I had given directions) a letter wasent to me out of Lancashire, which habeen directed there by the cleik of tlf sbank : who* told me he had obtaineddecreet against his wife, and he was atmservice. 1 returned an immediate answeunder a cover that I would be in tow :the latter end of the year. And indee 1after having opened the matter to thmidwife, and being delivered oi a finboy, which with much difficulty,allowed her to dispose or, I went t:I11leone, in Lancashire, and so takingipoach, writ a letter to my clerk to meet-L,V*.     me at Brckhill : there in a short timesiie prevailed with me to marry him.Ifhe next day from the window of theton, I beheld my Lancashire husbandwith two others pass by ; when soonj fter they were all three pursued asI lighwaya en; but returning safely withjoy husband to town, 1 lived with-himExceeding happy for the space of fiveears, by whom I had t'wo children.Afterv ards I rewarded my midwife forer fidelity to me. But my husband’siler.c robbing him, it flung him intouch a grief, that it immediately ended12his life, which entirely destroyed ailmy happiness.Soon after this being reduced to very igreat extremity, I was terr pted to steal]a small bund!-0 out of an apothecary’sshop in Leadenhall street, in which IIfound a sui- of child-bed linen, fine lace ja silver irnig and spoons, three shillingsand other matters. Tne next thinglwhich I did, I inveigled a little child 1away, from whom I took its gold neck-jlace, but though I had it in a private |iplav'e, I would not kill or hurt it and !put it in the way home again. Ano¬ther time I took cut of a shop atStephney, two rings, o^e adiamondnngand the other a plain one : and as Iwas once in Lombard Street, a thiefbeing pursued dropped a piece of Silic,wnicn I made off with, and afterward^disposed of to a good advantage, andnot as thieves commonly do, for a song jAnother time I stole a silver tankard fout of an ale house, which I afterwards i.sold to a pawn-broker, who greatlyencouraged me in such things. She jshortly afterwards helped me to a,mistress, who made me more expert in ;the thieving art; but not more form13rate : tor first, she herself, with anotherother scholars, were apprehended andcommited to Newgate, foi stealing twopieces of cambric from a linen-draperlin Cheapside. Both of them were con¬demned to die, but only our scholarwas executed ; for the ocher came, offwith what they call a circuit pardonfrom the judge.'Il■■■■Rp Hi•I cannot but reflect upon one crimeI I did in taking from the hands of a gen-itlewoman. a bundle of piate when herI house was on fire, and conveying it totj my own house, and so very fortunatewas I in escaping, that I became ex¬ceeding remarkable among the thieves :for none was so great as Moll Fianuers :but. at length being threatened to beimpeached by some in Newgate, I cloth¬ed myself in a man’s habit, though asmooth face (otherwise personal and tallenough) migh. soon have betrayed rue.Who being discovered as he >-as steal¬ing son e goods was taken, and 1 hap¬pily escaped ; I had s: metime alter thisthe happiness of seeing him hanged.14My name was as well known at theOld Baily, as a remarkable traitor is atthe secretary’s office. But being nowan excellent pick pocket, as well as astrumpet, 1 took from a cull after I hadmade him drunk, his gold watch, withhis silk purse of gold, fine pernwig,sword and snuffibox : and leaping ou:of the coach ( which stood still to letanother coach pass by ) 1 left my fool tomourn his disaster. This success mademe follow the whoring again, but find¬ing the profit of it too small to supportme, I returned again to my old trade ofshop- lifting.5C !And one time as I was going alongthe street through Covent-Garden,therewas a cry of stop thief, stop thief ; amercer’s shop having been robbed, andFseemed as the transgressor, and mosthaugn ily insulted by the mercer and |his -rervrtnts. In a little time they got |the right thief, who was much in thesame habit as mine. But for this affrontI got a hundred and fifty pounds ; sothat all this, with my other substance,might have maintained me, but I hav- |15i mg got an itch of thieving, could ini no manner leave it ofhI had an opportunity of commencinga coiner, but that was such a beggarlyand yet so dangerous a business, that Iwould never embark in it. Nor couldI ever yet be brought into the society ofi hpuse-breakers. No person could bemore dextrous in stealing gold watchesthan T from the ladies* sides, either atthe park playhouse or at church, Iwas also very dex rojis in gaming, an4at one time cleared 73 guineas. I’hf uncommon success I had, made me g<5into the country, where at Ca bridge,I Sturbridge fhir, and at New’ Market, I;| expertly performed the same pranksji over again ; and at Ipswich I robbed a| Du chinan of a portmanteau, by pre-1 tending to be his wife in an inn, andI in which was a very large quantity ofI gold and silver.But afterwerls coming up to Londonand venturing boldly into a fine silver¬smith’s shop, while none were there, Iwas perceived by a shopkeeper over| the way : but as 1 had a glance of himso I meddled with nothing, and a jus¬tice of the peace coining by, being cal¬led cleared me with living colpuisiAnother time, going inm a semps¬tress’ shop in Cheapside, and cheapen¬ing half a dozen o! very good hollandshifts, I doubted the length of tnem ;upon which the sempstress slipt one ofthe smoc’ss upon her, which gave me theadvantage to pin it with two or threepins to her petticoat and taking up the ||rest with other parcels of muslin, run a • Iway out of the shop. The sempstressendeavouring then to pull off hersmocs, pulled up her clouts, and run¬ning af er, cryed, Stop tnief, st -p v icf,with all she haa exposed to the pubiic;who taking her for a mad woman, I gotclear off with my booty, an:i t he semp- >stress was bantered to her dying day,besides losing to the value of fiftypounds worth of muslin.But after happening to steal somebrocaded silk from a mercer’s shop, Iwas apprehended, and being carriedbefore a justice, was committed to New¬gate the place of my nativity, where it17iis impossible for me to express the hor-: rors of a disconsoUte mind.Here the wretches triumphed overme. What, said they, is Mrs. Flanderscome to Newgate, what, Mrs. Mary,and after plain Moll Flanders. But Iwas forced to content myself with thispiece of Newgate poetry.If I swing by this string,I shall hear the * bell ring,And there’s an end of poor Moll.Here I got into blessed acquaintance,i! whose companv soon made e as hard-i ened as themselves; and where to myI amazement, I beheld among them my(former Lancashire 'msband, and whosemisfortunes he placed upon my account(Here my old tutoress had done whatshe could for me 10 make up the matteriwith my prosecutors ; for she emJea-voured, tho’ to no purpose, to hinderthe jury from finning the bill of imlict-ment against me. At the sessions 1 hadpleaded not guilty, but was found* St, Sepulchre’s.18guilty of felony, and so received sentence of death accordingly.So concerned was my poor gover¬ness that having repented herself of allher sins, she sent me a minister also!0I5!■who represented to me these four im¬portant truths, death, judgement, hea¬ven, and hell. When the dead warrantcame down he visited me as before ;the next day I heard the dismal toll ofSt. Sepulchre’s bell, and ther was in-formed of my reprieve, the unexpectedjoy made me immediately fall into aterrible swoon.After this I was put on board in order! for transportation with several otherI victims as they called us, whereiwe endured great hardships, as the firstnight lying upon the bare boards, butafterwards were allowed the liberty oflittle cabins if we had any clothes to layin them. That night the ship fell downinto a place which they cal! Busty Hole,fro n whence I sent a letter bv the boat¬swain, who came on shore, to my go-20: etness, and to my poor Lancashire hus¬band. The next day my governess sentme a sea bed and a chest: in one draw¬er of which, was my money ; and gaveme an answer to that which I sent to |my husband, who hoped tho’ he couldnot go with me in the same ship, yet toI see me in Virginia, but by intercession,he was afterwards put on board with us,where my money furnished us withgood accomodation So we tookjflike-l wise several materials with us Fot thework of planting; and so we sailed fromthe Downs the 13th of April, and arriv¬ed safely on the coastof Virginia, where f1 soon perceived my own son and mybrother bis father whom I had mademy husband twentv ^ears ago ; but mymother had been dead some time beforehaving left a considerable plantationto me and my heirs.Many were the ways I pondered onto get from the sight of my family inthese wretched circumstances ; since Icould not bear the sight of my child,my brother and husband, who livednear that place 1 had taken for my set¬tlement ; and upon this very account ni we *r>oveH with all oar effects into Mary-, land, afip?' a long and unpleasant voy-i age, wbeieweboughtvistwoservants,anEnglish woman and a Negro man ; theni a piece oi ground or fifty acres* & builta decent hou e thereon : And indeedour affairs went on very prosperously,so that we looked upon one anotherwith pleasure, and then I obtained myhusbanu’s consent to go to Virginia, &to discover myseiftomybrother. WhenI landed I writ a !e.rer to him, tellinghim ot several particular affairs, whichletter came into his son’s hand, whoask-ing the messenger where the gentle¬woman was that wrote it, he came tomewhich was about sevenjmiles off, attend¬ed by two servants on horseback, andcoming to me, kissed me, saying,1 Dearmother are you alive ?* and then he fellI to weeping.He told me that his father was quitesuperanuated,andbesidehimself, whichmade him conceal the letter from him,that the plantation which my motherhad left me was in his possession; sofor the produce of it he gave a hundredpounds, engaging to be my trustee andfaithful steward. Indeed in all his22actions he proved a most dutiful child,' allotting servants to wait upon me, andtreating me with as great splendour as ifI had been a sovereign princess. I! presented him with a gold watch, andtaking my leave of him, after I had uacquainted him that I intended to marry, a gentleman who came over with me,I set sail in a sloop my son had provided,and came safe to my own plantations iagain, bringing over with me three |saddles, some hogs, two cows, and a 1great many other things.When I bad related all this verygood fortune to my husband, he liftedup his hands in an extacy of joy, andgave thanks to heaven for this suddenand so happy a change. Soon afterthis, arrived a cargo from England,which my governess had sent me,with three women servants ; whichmade my husband amazed, especiallywhen I assured him that they werepaid tor. How says he, was I deceiv¬ed when I married a wife in LancashireI think I married a fortune, and a goodfortune too.23I had taken care to buy those thingsor my husband, which I knew he took. delight to wear ; as two good longvigs, two silver hiked swords, three orour side fowling pieces, a fine saddlevith holsters and pistols very handsome,vith a scarlet cloak; and in one word,wery thing I could think on thatnight possibly oblige him and to maketim appear (aa he really was) a veryine gentleman, I must not omit in- jorvning my readers that one of thevenches my governess had sent us hap¬pened to come double, having been gotIvith child by one of the seamen in thethip, as she owned afterwards, beforei he ship got as far as Gravesend : so' he brought us a fine boy about sevennonths after our landing.After my brother’s [ or former hus-;>and’s] 4e4th? nay sd» visited us wherejay dear husband malta him most ex¬ceeding welcome |and truly no personiould be blessed with a more dutifulihild. In this happy manner we livedor the space of 26 ye.ms, resolving to:lpend the remainder o. our da)s in ai.ncere penitence for our wicked livese had lived. And this e shall doby our extensive charity, and liberahospitality to all men.Thus tar we have given an account oMoll Flanders; to which we shall adcthat we have an account trom Virginithat she died lately, having prepare^for that change, with the greatest pietjand devotion. And as she perceivedher dissolution to draw near, she be|queathed several legacies for charicabljuses, and dying her funeral was performed with great solemnity, being interred in St. Mary’s church in Virginia.finis.