tXTTHEBOOK OF FATE,FOUND IN THE CABINET OFNAPOLEON BUONAPARTE,Who esteemed it his Greatest Treasure, consulted it on allMomentous Occasions, and always found its Revela¬tions the truest Insight into Futurity.GLASGOW:\• ,Ul- • t....)4^, -11The Sun is an emblem of great luck and happiness, if inthe clear; but in the thick it denotes a great deal of sadness;if surrounded by dots or dashes, an alteration will speedilytake place.The Moon, if in the clear, denotes high honours; if in thethick parts, sadness without great prejudice; but if at thebottom of the cup, fortunate both by sea and land.Mountains.—If only one, it indicates the favour of peopleof high rank ; but several of them, in the thick, are signs ofpowerful enemies; in the clear, the contrary.Trees.—One tree only, if it be in the clear or thick part,points out lasting good health; several trees denote yourwish will be accomplished; if they are encompassed withdashes, your fortune is in its blossom, and requires time tobring it to maturity. If accompanied by dots, you will makeyour fortune in the country where you reside.The Child, in the clear part, bespeaks of some innocentintercourse with another person; in the thick part, excess inlove matters, attended with great expense; at the bottom ofthe cup it denotes the consequence of libidinous amours.The Woman signifies much joy in general; if in the clear,more favourable, there it shows very great happiness; in thethick a great deal of jealousy. If dots surround the image,it explains the lady’s fertility or wealth. The different posi¬tions in the cup show, at the top and in the middle, that youwill be in love with a virgin; at the bottom, with a widow.The Pedestrian denotes in general a merchant, good busi¬ness, pleasant news, and recovery of lost things; also, thatthe consulting party will soon enlist, or get some engage¬ment.The Rider denotes good news from abroad, in moneymatters, a good situation in a foreign country, or good pros¬pects. Who doubts his fortune is promised a lasting one bythis emblem.The Mouse, living by stealth, is here an emblem of theft orrobbery ; if it be in the clear, it shows that you will get againin a wonderful manner what you have lost; but if in thethick, you may renounce the hope.The Rod shows difference with relations about legacies ; inthe thick, illness.Flowers.—If the party be married, he may expect goodchildren, who will be a blessing to him in his old age.The Heart, if in the clear, signifies future pleasure; it pro-! raises recovery of money, if surrounded by dots. If a ring,. or two hearts, the party is about to be married or betrothed;if a letter be perceptible near it, it shows the initial of the)ymmk1Jperson’s name; if the letter be in the clear, the party is avirein ; if in the thick, a widow.The Garden, or Wood, signifies a large company In theclear, it indicates good friends of which it will consist; m thethick, or encompassed with streaks, it warns the consultingparty to be cautious, and not to take for his friends thosewho merely profess themselves such. .The Bird,\t in the clear, signifies that you will hare tocombat with troubles, but of short duration; in the thidc,good living, and a speedy successful voyage or journey, andto a great distance if there are dashes.Fish imply lucky events by water, if in the clear, but ifthe thick, the consul ter will fish in troubled water, and relyupon that which others have already lost before him. Sur¬rounded by dots, his destiny calls him to some distant place.The Lion, or any other ferocious beast, at the top, in theclear, signifies prosperity; at the bottom, it warns you ofper-80rAae7firshow.nethe benevolence of your patrons,and gives you hopes of the honours you wish for; withoutfoliage, is a token of the caprice of fortune; in the clear, itannounces an unexpected remittance of monev.XT/at the top, or in the middle of the cup, denotee-ood luck at play, and in matrimony; below, it wains youagainst rivals in your courtship, and enviers in your trade.The House indicates, at the top of the cup, success in yourenterprises, and that your situation will soon be better. Inthe middle or below, it cautions you to be vigilant over your^Ihe Scythe, if combined with an hour-glass, denotes immi¬nent dangers; below, a long and happy life.IV -Bt the Birth of Children with respect to theMoon’s Ace.tv, Kn hnvn the first day of the new moon is very fortunate,for to suS all things shall -cceed well; their sleep will begweet, and their dreams pleasant ; they shall have longanIiehildaSbo0mrithee3;eco«d day of the new moon shall growapace • but it will be much inclined to lust, whether it be malaTfemnle. On this day also all breams shaU quickljcome to pass, whether they be good or bad It is also goon this day to open a vein, if there be occaaon.J5show a person to be credulous, foolish, and apt to bo enticedto any thing. Lips of a different size denote a person to bodiscreet, of a ready wit, but somewhat hasty. To have onelip bigger than the other, denotes the party_to be of a dull,sluggish temper, and much addicted to folly.The lips they so much dote on for a kis^Oft tell fond lovers when they do amiss.Voice A great and full voice, in either sex, shows them.ito be of a great spirit, confident, proud, and wilful. A faintand weak voice shows a person of a good understanding,nimble fancy, a little eater, but weak of body and timorous.A loud and shrill voice denotes one sagacious and ingenious,but capricious, vain-glorious, and too credulous. A weak,trembling voice, denotes one to be envious, suspicious, slowin business, and fearful. A loud, shrill, and unpleasant voice,signifies one bold and valiant, but quarrelsome. A voicebeginning low, or in the bass, and ending high in the treble,denotes a person to be violent, angry, bold, secure.Thus by our voice ’tis to the artist known,Unio what virtue, or what vice we're prone ;And he that will of a good w ife make choice.May choose her by observing of her voice.Chin. A thick and full chin shows a man inclined topence, honest, but slow of invention. A peaked chin, reason¬ably full of flesh, shows a good understanding, a high spirit,and laudable of conversation. A double chin shows a manof peaceable disposition, but of dull apprehension, vain,credulous, and secret in his actions.Ears Great and thick ears are certain signs of a foolishperson; but small and thin ears show a person to be a goodwit, grave, secret, modest, and one willing to serve his friend,lie whose ears are no longer than ordinary, is a bold man,uncivil, vain, and foolish.Whoe'er his praise unwillingly does hear.Shows a good life as well as a good ear.Eace. A face apt to sweat on every motion, shows theperson to be of a hot constitution. A very fleshy face showsthe person to be of a feartul disposition, but a merry lieai t,and withal, bountiful and discreet. A lean face denotes theperson to be of a good understanding, but somewhat capri-C1°Nails Broad nails show a gentle disposition, bashfulness,(l and afraid of speaking before superiors. If round the nailsli there is any excoriation, or sprouting of the skin, the person1* luxurious, fearful, and an epicure, loving enjoyment.When there are certain white marks at the end, they testifythat the person is improvident, soon ruining his fortune,through negligence. Narrow nails indicate a desire to attainknowledge in the sciences. When to narrowness they addsome degree of length, the person is led away by ambitiousdesires, aiming at things he cannot obtain ; one who, havingformed notions of grandeur, grasps at the shadow, while heloses the substance. If at both ends there is a redness, ormixture of several colours, the person is choleric, and delightsin fighting. When the end is black, the man loves agricul¬ture ; ho places happiness in mediocrity, and from thenceavoids the cares attendant on either extreme of fortune.Round nails declare a hasty person, yet good-natured, andvery forgiving, a lover of knowledge, honest in mind, doingno one any harm, and acting according to his own imagina¬tion, being rather too proud of his own abilities. When thenails are long, the person is good-natured, but placing confi¬dence in no man, being from his youth conversant in deceit,yet not practising it, from the goodness of his nature and alove of virtue. Fleshy nails show a calm person and idler,loving to sleep, eat, and drink; not delighting in bustle anda busy life. Little round nails discover a person to be obsti¬nate, seldom pleased, inclining to hate every one, as conceiv¬ing himself superior to others, though without any foundationfor such conception. Pale or lead-coloured nails denote amelancholy person, one who through choice leads a sedentarylife, and would willingly give up all things for the sake ofstudy. and spotted nails indicate the person choleric andmartial, delighting in cruelty and war; his chief pleasurebeing in plundering of towns, where every ferocious particlein human nature is glutted to satiety. When upon the nailsyou find any black spots, they always signify evil, as whiteones are a token of good. When the nails are white, andlong, the person is subject to great sickness; he is well-madeand comely, but much inclined to women, who deceive himthrough false pretences, and shortly bring him to ruin. Ifupon the white there appear pale lead-coloured spots, a shortlife and addicted to melancholy.Moles.—These are little marks on the skin, although theyappear to be tine effect of chance or accident, and might easilypass with the unthinking for things of no moment, are never¬theless of the utmost consequence, since from their colour,situation, size, and figure, may be accurately gathered thetemper of, and the events that will happen to, the personbearing them.7A mole on the wrist shows the person to be of an ingeniousand industrious turn.A mole between the elbow and the wrist shows a placidand cheerful disposition.A mole near either elbow shows a restless and unsteadydisposition.A mole on the right or left arm shows a courageous dispo¬sition.A mole on the left shoulder shows a person of a quarrel¬some and unruly disposition.A mold on the right shoulder shows a person of a prudentand discreet temper.A mole on the loins shows industry and honesty, anamorous disposition.A mole on the hip shows that the person will have manychildren.A mole on the right thigh shows that the person will be¬come rich, and good luck in marriage.A mole on the right knee portends that the person will berash, with an inconsiderate turn.A mole on each leg shows that the person is indolent, andindifferent as to what happens.A mole on the right eye-brow announces speedy marriage ;and that the person to whom you will be married will possessmany amiable qualities, and a fortune.A mole on either cheek signifies that the person nevershall arise above mediocrity in point of fortune, though at thesame time he will never sink to real poverty.A mole on both cheeks denotes the person will know adeal of trouble, losses, and crosses, but at last arrive to be agreat tradesman, and will gain great riches, will be a verypublic character, and also fond of rural scenes.A mole on the upper or lower lip represents the person tobe fond of delicate things, and very much given to the plea¬sures of love, in which he or she will be successful.A mole on the side of the neck shows that the person willnarrowly escape suffocation, but afterwards rise to great con¬sideration by nn unexpected legacy or inheritance.A mole on the throat denotes that the person will becomerich by marriage.A mole on the bosom portends mediocrity of health andfortune.A mole under the left breast over the heart, foreshows theman will be of a warm disposition, unsettled in mind, fond oframbling, and light in his conduct; in women, it shows sincerityin love, quick conception, and easy to travel in child-birth.9A mole on the belly denotes the person to be addicted toSloth and gluttony.A mole situated in the recesses which modesty concealsfrom view, as not to admit of being discovered but by another;and yet to have a mole so placed is the most fortunate for them.II.—Bt Palmistut.Palmistry is the art of reading the fortune from the linesof the hand, which are as follows: The line of life reaches from the wrist almost to the rootof the fore finger. The table line is in the middle or table ofthe hand, and in some hands runs along the four mounts, par-ticipating of the influence of the respective planets governingthem; tlm middle^ running across the hand, and sometimesobliquely, it takes its beginning at the rising of the fore finger,near the line of life, ending at the mount of the moon. Theline of the brain usually called the liver line, reaches to thetable line, making a triangle thus, 4. The girdle of Venusbegins near the joint of the little finger, and ends betweenthe fore finger and middle finger. The line of death or greatmisfortunes, when it appears plain, and therefore it is calledthe sister line, ending at its end and the percussion, is betweenthe mount of Venus and that of the moon; the wrist linescommonly called Rogeata, are known by the joints that partthe hand. rThere are many letters often formed in the hand, calledsacred characters, and of these I shall speak, as they relateto good or bad fortune:—An A found between the mount ofthe moon and hollow of the hand, denotes sickness and losses;if it appear toward the mount of Venus, it denotes success inlove affairs, and prosperity. If a T be on the mount ofVenus, it denotes success in love affairs; but if it come solow as to cut the line of life, then it denotes crosses and mis¬fortunes in love, and much mischief. A P on the ball of thethumb denotes honour and preferment, Q in the angle orhollow many marriages, and X vexation and trouble.III.—Bt the Gxounds op Tea or Copper.Pour the grounds of tea or coffee into a white cup, shakethem well about iu it, so that their particles may cover the9surface of the whole cup; then reverse it into the saucer, thatall the superfluous parts may be drained, and the figures re¬quired for fortune-telling be formed. The person that actsthe fortune-teller must always bend his thoughts upon himor her that wish to have their fortune told, and upon theirrank and profession, in order to give plausibility to their pre¬dictions. It is not to be expected upon taking up the cup,that the figures will be accurately represented; but the morefertile the fancy shall be of the person inspecting the cuf\ themore he will discover in it. In this amusement, each musthimself be a judge under what circumstances he is to makechanges in point of time, speaking just as it suits, in the pre¬sent, the past, or the future.The Roads, or serpentine lines, indicate ways; if they arecovered with clouds, and in the thick, they are marks of pastor future reverses; but if they appear clear or serene, theydenote some fortunate change near at hand; encompassedwith many points or dots, they signify an accidental gain ofmoney, likewise long life.The Ring signifies marriage; if a letter near it, it denotesto the person that has his fortune told, the initial of thename of the person to be married. If the ring is in the clear,it portends happy and lucrative friendship. Surrounded withclouds, denotes that the party is to use precaution in thofriendship he is about to contract, lest he should be insidiouslydeceived; but is most inauspicious if the ring appear at thebottom of the cup, as it forebodes the entire separation froma beloved object.A Leaf of Clover is, as well here as in common life, a luckysign—its positions in the cup alone make the difference ; ifit is on the top, it shows that good fortune is not far distant;but it is subject to delay if it is in the middle, or at thebottom. Should clouds surround it, many things disagreeablewill attend the good fortune; in the clear, it prognosticatesundisturbed happiness.The Anchor, the emblem of hope and commerce impliessuccessful business carried on by water and land, if on thebottom of the cup; at the top, and in a clear part, it showsconstant love and unshaken fidelity. In thick and cloudedparts it also denotes love, but tinctured with the inconstancyof the butterfly.The Serpent, always the emblem of falsehood and enmity,is here a general sign of an enemy. On the top, or in themiddle of the cup, it promises to the consulting party thatriumph which he desires over his enemy: but he will notobtain it so easily if the serpent be iu the thick or cloudy10part. By the letter which frequently appears near theemblem, the enemy may easily be guessed, as it marks theinitial of his name.The Letter.—By letters we communicate to our friendseither pleasant or unpleasant news; such is the case here.If this emblem is in the clear part, it denotes the speedyarrival of welcome news; surrounded with dots, it announcesthe arrirr.l of a considerable remittance in money; buthemmed in by clouds, it is quite the contrary, and forebodessome melancholy tidings. If it be in the clear, and accom¬panied by a heart, lovers may expect a letter, which securesto the party the possession of the beloved object; but in thethick it denotes a refusal.The Coffin, the emblem of death, prognosticates the samething here, or long illness if it be in the thick. In the clear,it denotes long life; in the thick, at the top of the cup, itsignifies a considerable estate left to the party by some richrelation: in the same manner, at the bottom", it shows thatthe deceased is not so nearly related to the consulting party.The Star denotes happiness if in the clear, and at the topof the cup; clouded, or in the thick, it signifies long life,though exposed to various troubles; if dots are about it, itforetells great fortune, honours, &c. Several stars denote somany good and happy children; but surrounded by dots, showthat your children will cause you grief and vexation.The Dog, at all times an emblem of fidelity or envy, hasalso a twofold meaning here. At the top, in the clear, itsignifies faithful friends; but, surrounded by clouds anddashes, it shows those whom you take for your friends arenot to be depended on; but if'at the bottom of the cup, youhave to dread the effects of envy or jealousy.'The Lily, at the top or in the middle of the cup, signifiesthe consulting party has, or will have, a virtuous spouse; ifat the bottom, the reverse. In the clear, it denotes a longand happy life; if clouded, or in the thick, it portends verygreat trouble or vexation.The Cross, be there one or more, generally predicts adver¬sity. As its position varies, so do the circumstances. At thetop, in the clear, it denotes the party’s misfortunes nearat an end; but if in the middle, or at the bottom, in thethick, the party must expect many severe trials ; if with dots,either in clear or thick, it promises a speedy change of sorrowThe Clouds, if more light than dark, you may expect agood result from your hopes; but if black, you must give itup. Surrounded by dots, they imply success in all yourundertakings.THE BOOK OF FATE.** *HOW TO WORK THE ORACULUM.ina!n^B marks,i? four lines, one under another, in the follow-your fancy"'-akmS ^ 1633 in eaCh line’ accordinor tr**********************•***»*,,************Tj5!11 ”i°,n the uuml’er of marks in each line, and if it beorfd, maik down one dot; if even, two dots. If there be mornonly reck0n the SUrplus ones over that numberof ,marks in the first line of the foregoing areOdd; therefore make one mark, thus In the second, even, so make two, thus, .In the third, odd again, make one mark only,la the fourth, even again, two marks, .... * *TO OBTAIN THE ANSWER,You must refer to the Oracdlom, at the top of which you willro^m r°fVr0f d°tS S'm'!ar t0 lhose y°a have Produced, and acolumn of figures corresponding with those prefixed to theques-turns ; guide your eye down the column at the top of which.tou find the dots resembling your own, till vou come to theetteron a hue with the number of the question vou are trying:Ifae whhVh0 H1! ^ uaVlnR that Ietter at the t0P- and' on",lint with the dots which are similar to your own, you will findtne answer. ^tinl* !t.fn1,MVKng arie aT,luckv da-vs’ on wh!ch none of the ques-tions should be worked, or anyenterprise undertakenJan. 1,10^27' 2R• M i7F0eb’ 17’ > March 24, 2G;-APrii10, _7, 28,—May 7, 8;_JUne 27;—July 17, 21Aug. 20,22;—Sept. 5, 30;—Oct. 6;—Nov. 3, 29;—Dec. 6, 10, 15.* It is not right to try a question twice in one day.4■*He whose hair is of a browiiish colour, and curled a little, is awell-disposed man, and a lover of peace. ,Forehead The forehead that nseth in a round, signifies aman liberally minded, of a good understanding, and generallyinclined to virtue. He whose forehead is low and little, isof a good understanding, magnanimous, confident, and acreat pretender to love and honour.Eve-brows.—Those eye-brows that are much arched,whether in a man or woman, shows the person is proud,high-spirited, bold, and threatening, and a lover of beauty.Those on the other side, whose eye-brows are black, and thehair of them but thin, will do nothing without great con¬sideration, and are bold and confident in the performance ofwhat they undertake.    , . . ,Ei,es He whose eyes are hollow in his head, is one thatis suspicious, malicious, perverse in bis conversation, and ofan extraordinary memory. He whose eyes are, as it were,starting out of his head, is a simple foolish person He wholooks studiously and acutely, with his eyes and eye-lidsdownwards, denotes thereby to be of a malicious natuie,very treacherous and false. He who hath a wandering eye,and which is rolling up and down, is for the most part a vain,simple, deceitful man, lustful, treacherous, or high-minded.He whose eyes are twinkling, and which move forward orbackward, sliow the person to be luxurious, unfaithful, andhard to believe. They whose eyes are addicted to be blood¬shot, are naturally choleric, proud, cruel without shame, andmuch inclined to superstition.JSose A long and thin nose denotes a roan bold, furious,angry, vain, and credulous. A bottle-nose is what denotes aman to be vain, false, luxurious, weak, and uncertain. Anose broad in the middle, and less toward the end, denotes avain, talkative person, a liar, and one of a bad fortune. Hewho hath a long and great nose, is an admirer of the fair sex,addicted to vice, and very ignorant. A nose that turns up,and is long and full on the tip of it, shows a person that hasit to be bold, envious, luxurious, a liar, and a deceiver. Hewhose nose riseth high in the middle, is prudent and polite,and of great courage. A nose big at the end, shows a personto be of a peaceable disposition, industrious, and faithful,and of a good understanding.Mouth A great and wide mouth shows a man to be bold,a great liar, and a great talker and eater. A little mouthshows the person to be of a quiet, pacific temper, secret,modest, and bountiful.Lips.—The lips, when they are very big and blubbering,21The Ace of Diamonds signifies a letter.The King of Diamonds shows a man of fiery temper, pre¬serving his anger, and seeking for opportunities of revenge,and obstinate in his resolutions.The Queen of Diamonds signifies that the woman shall befond of company, be a coquette, and not over virtuous.The Knave of Diamonds, however nearly related, will lookmore after his own interest than yours, he will be tenaciousof his own opinion, and fly off if contradicted.The Ten of Diamonds promises a country husband or wife,with great wealth and many children ; the card next to itiwill tell the number of children; it also signifies a purse of:go!d.The Nine of Diamonds declares that the person will be of aroving disposition, never contented with his lot, and for evermeeting with vexations and disappointments.The Eight of Diamonds shows that the person in their youthiwill be an enemy to marriage, and thus run the risk of dying^unmarried: but if they do marry it will be late in life, andl(then it will be with a person whose disposition is so illj: assorted to theirs, that it will be the cause of misfortune.The Seven of Diamonds shows that you will be tormentedqby the infidelity of your conjugal partner or lover, and squan-idering your substance.The Six of Diamonds shows an early marriage and prema-iture widowhood, but that your second marriage will probablyamaxe you worse.The Five of Diamonds shows that you will have good chil-i dren who will keep you from grief.The Four of Diamonds shows the inconstancy of the personi you will be married to, and great vexation to yourself throughthe whole course of your life.The Tray of Diamonds shows that you will be engaged inquarrels, lawsuits, and domestic disagreements; your partnerfor life will be a vixen and of an abusive temper, fail in theperformance of the nuptial duties, and make you unhappy.The Deuce of Diamonds shows that your heart will be en¬gaged in love at an early period; that your parents will notapprove your choice; and that if you marry without theirconsent they will hardly forgive you.The Ace of Hearts signifies feasting and pleasure; if theace is attended by spades, it foretells quarrelling; if by hearts,it shows affection and friendship; if by diamonds, you willhear of some absent friend; if by clubs, it denotes merry¬making.The King of Hearts shows a man of a good-natured disposi-tion, rather hasty and passionate, rash in his undertakinjiand very amorous.The Queen of Hearts denotes a woman of fair complexion ifaithful and affectionate.The Knave of Hearts is a person of no particular sex, hialways the dearest friend or nearest relation of the consultiil!party; you must pay great attention to the cards that stamnext to the knave, as from them alone can you judge wheth i)the person it represents will favour your inclinations or nofcoThe Ten of Hearts shows good nature and many children) 'it is a corrective of the bad tidings of the cards that stainnext to it; and if its neighbouring cards are of good impouit ascertains and confirms their value.The Nine of Hearts promises wealth, grandeur, and hig testeem; if cards that are unfavourable stand near it, ya\must look for disappointments ; and a reverse if favourabl Icards follow these last at a small distance, expect to retrievyour losses, whether of peace or of goods.The Eight of Hearts is a sign of drinking and feasting.The Seven of Hearts shows the person to be fickle and can unfaithful disposition, addicted to vice, incontinent, amsubject to the mean art of recrimination to excuse themselvesalthough without foundation.The Six of Hearts shows a generous, open, and credulou:disposition, easily imposed upon, and ever the dupe of flatterers, but the good-natured friend of the distressed ; if thiicard comes before your king or queen, you will be the dupeif after, you will have the better.The Five of Hearts shows a wavering and unsteady disposi¬tion, never attached to one object, and free from any violentpassion or attachment.The Four of Hearts shows the person will not be marrieduntil very late in life, and that this will proceed from toojgreat a delicacy in making a choice.The Trag of Hearts shows that your own imprudence willgreatly contribute to your experiencing the ill-will of others.The Deuce of Hearts shows that extraordinary success andgood fortune will attend the person; though if unfavourablecards attend, this will be a long time delayed.The Ace of Spades totally relates to the affairs of love, with¬out specifying whether lawful or unlawful; it also denotesdeath when the card is upside down.The King of Spades shows a man ambitious and successfulat court, or with some great man who will have it in hispower to advance him ; but let him beware of a reverse.The Queen of Spades shows a person that will be corruptedis3und in the end shall be mistaken. This is a good day to wedi wife; for he that can meet with a good wife ought to marryaer while he can have her.On the twenty-fourth day the child then born shall be aurodigy in the world, and make all men admire his surprisingvonderful actions, which shall exceed those of the ordinarylort of men.. On the five-and-twentieth day the child then born shall belocked, he shall encounter with many dangers, and at lastmil perish by them. This is an unfortunate day to those whoegin any enterprise of moment thereon.. On the six-and-twentieth day the child that shall be thenorn shall be very beautiful and amiable; but yet of an in-■ liferent state in the world, if it be a male; but if it be acm ale, a rich man marries her for her beauty.The twenty-seventh day the child that shall be bom shall beif that sweet and affable temper and disposition, that it willontract the love of every one with whom it shall converse:fad yet, if a male, shall never rise to any great height in theroild; but if a maiden, the sweetness of her disposition mayidvance her, for such a temper is to be esteemed aboveches.. On the twenty-eighth day the child that is bom shall be theiiehght of his parents, but yet subject to much sickness andany distempers, which shall take it away before it is aterfect age.On the twenty-ninth day the child that shall be born shallIB fortunate and happy, blessed with long life, and attain toi eminent degree of holiness, wisdom, and virtue. Tolarry a good wife is a good fortune, and such shall be hislat shall marry on this day.I On the thirtieth day the child that shall be bom will bertunate and happy, and well skilled in arts and sciences.. Ihese, and divers other like things, happen to mankindixording to the different ages and courses of the moon,Inch has a great influence upon all human bodies.| V.—By the Birtii op Childken with respect to theDay op the Week.l.The child bom on Sunday shall be of a long life and obtaini ches.I( On Monday—Weak and of an effeminate temper, whichi adorn brings a man to honour.16On Tuesday.—'Worse, though he may with extraordinar;;violence conquer the inordinate desires to which he will bsubject, still he will be in danger of dying by violence, if hhas not great precaution.On I Vednesday. —Sh all be given to the study of learningand shall profit thereby. . .On Thursday.—lie shall arrive at great honour and dignity#On Tiiday.—He shall be of a strong constitution, and penthaps lecherous.On Saturday This is another bad day, nevertheless tnnchild may come to good, though it be but seldom ; but moi|)ichildren born on this day are of a heavy, dull, and doggeydisposition.VI. By the eyii, and pekh-ohs Days of eveby Montiof the Year.There are certain days in the year which it concernspersons to know, because they are so perilous and dangeroufor on these days if a man or woman let blood, they shall dwithin twenty-one days following; and whosoever falleth sicon any of these days shall certainly die; and whosoevibeginneth any journey on any of these days, he shall be ’danger of death before he returns. Also he that marnethwife on nnv of these days, they shall either be quickly parte**or else live' together with sorrow and discontent. And lastljwhosoever on any of these days beginneth any great businessit will never prosper or come to the desired perfection.Now, since these days are so unfortunate, it highly concenevery one, both to know and take notice of them ; whicthat the reader may do, I have set down in the followinIn January are eight days, that is to say, the 1st, 2d, 4tl5th, 10th, 15th, 17 th, and 19 th. tIn February are three days, that is, the 8th, 1. th, and 21stIn March are three days, that is, the 13tb, 16th, and 21stIn April are two, the 15th and 21st.In May three, the 15th, 17th, and 20th.In June two, the 4th and 5th.In July two, the 15th and 20th.In August two, the 10th and 25th.In September two, the 6th and 7th.In October one, the 19th.In November two, the 5th and 7th.In December three, the 6th, 7th, and 11th.17I, But besides these, there are also the canicular, or dog-days,•which are those of the greatest danger and peril; they begin,tlie 19th day of July, and end the 27th of August, duringwhich time it is very dangerous to fall sick, take physic, or;to let blood; but if necessity call for it, it is best to be donei before the middle of the day.VII.—By Signs.To cut your nails on a Sunday is unlucky, to cut them ona Monday is best; on Wednesday prognosticates a quarrel;•every other is a matter of indifference.—Bellows found lyington a table or floor, is a sign of words in the domestic circle;fto put them behind the door shows trouble for debt; bellowsilaid on a chair, denotes the near approach of a welcometstranger to the house.—Burning beef bones brings sorrow►through poverty; and to cast those of pork or veal into thetfire, inflicts pains in the bones of the person so improvident;i burning the bones of fish and poultry engenders scandal onI the consumer, especially if a female It is not lucky to cuthair on a Sunday, or a Wednesday, and not at all in the; Passion Week.—It is very unlucky to stumble when you arei on the road to the church to be married ; it denotes earlyi separation, or widowhood. To meet a funeral as you go toi church on this errand, shows you will have to encounter ai life of domestic jars, and a very indifferent partner.—For a| fire to burn black and gloomy, is a certain sign of dissensioni or unpleasant tidings from a distant quarter. For a fire to(spit or roar, is a sign of some heavy displeasure from a supa-. rior, or a person who has authority over you.Vm Bt Chahms and Ceremonies.To see a Future Husband.—On Midsummer Night, just atI sunset, three, five, or seven young women are to go into aI garden, in which there is no other person, and each gather asprig of red sage; and then, going into a room by themselves,i set a stool in the middle of the room, and on it a clean basin: full of rose water, in which the sprigs of sage are to be put;and tying a line across the room, on one side of the stool,; each woman is to hang on it a clean shift, turned the wrongi side outwards; then all are to sit down in a row, on the oppositeSide of the stool, as far distant as the room will admit, not18speaking the whole time, whatever they see, and in a feminutes after twelve, each one’s future husband will take hidsprig out of the rose-water, and sprinkle her shift with it. •. Arujther way to see a Future Spouse in a Dream.—The partinquiring must lie in a different county from that in whicshe commonly resides, and on going to bed must knit thfcleft garter about the right leg stocking, letting the othegarter and stocking alone; and as you rehearse the follovvin-verses, at every comma knit a knot.This knot I knit, to know the thing X know not yet,Inat I inay see the man that shall my husband be.How he goes, and what he wears.And what he does all days and years.Accordingly in a dream, he will appear with the insignia chis trade or profession.To know if your present Sweetheart will marry you.—Let an'unmarried woman take the blade-bone of a shoulder of Iambiand, borrowing a penknife, (but be sure not to mention fotlwhat purpose,) on going to bed stick the knife once tbroughtthe bone, every night, for nine nights, in different places,]:repeating every night, while sticking the knife, these words*Tis not this bone I mean to stick,But my lover’s heart I mean to prlek.Wishing him neither rest nor sleepTill he comes to me to speak.Accordingly, at the end of nine days, or shortly after, he will:ask for something to put to a wound he will have met with'during the time you were charming him.To know whether a woman will have the man she wishes.—tret two lemon peels, wear them all dav, one in each pocket,at night rub the four posts of the bedstead with them; if sheis to succeed, the person will appear in her sleep, and presenther with a couple of lemons; if not, there is no hope.To know whether one shall enjoy their love or not.—Take thenumber oi the first letter of your names, the number of theplanet, and of the day of the week; put all these together,:and divide them by 40: ifitbeabove, it will come to your mind,and if below, to the contrary; be particular in minding thenumber which is under 30.To know whether a new-born chili shall live or rfie.—Writedown the proper names of the father and mother, and theday the child was born, and put to each letter its number asbefore, and to the total sum, being put together, add 25, and !divide the whole by 7; and then if it be even, the child willdie, but if odd, it shall live.Zb know whether a person will be married.—Get a pease-pod,3,19in which are nine peas, hang the same oyer the door, and^ take notice of the person who comes in, (who is not of thefamily,) and if he be a bachelor, you will certainly be marriedwithin the year.On any Friday throughout the year, take rosemary flowers,bay leaves, thyme, and sweet marjoram, of each a handful; drythese and make them into fine powder; then take a tea-spoonfulof each sort, mix the whole together, then take twice thequantity of barley-flour, and mix the whole into a cake,« with the milk of a red cow: this cake is not to be baked, butwrapped in clean writing-paper, and laid under your head anyFriday night. If the person dream of music, she will shortlywed him she wishes ; if she dream of fire, she will be crossedin love; if of a church, she will die single. If any thing bowritten, or there be the least spot, on the paper, it will notdo.Any unmarried woman fasting on Midsummer Eve, and atmidnight laying a clean cloth, with bread, cheese, and ale,and sitting down as if going to eat, the street door being leftopen, the person whom she is aftenvards to marry will comeinto the room, and drink to her by bowing; and after fillingthe glass, will leave it on the table, make another bow, andretire.To know what fortune your future husband shall have Takea walnut, ahazlenut, and a nutmeg, grate them together, andmix them with butter and sugar, and make them into smallpills, of which exactly nine must be taken on going to bed,and according to your dreams so will be the state of the per¬son you will marry. If a gentleman, of riches; if a clergy¬man, of white linen ; if a lawyer, of darkness ; if a tradesman,i of odd noises and tumults ; if a soldier or sailor, of thunderS and lightning ; if a servant, of rain.To see a future spouse in a dream, by charming the moon i At the first appearance of the moon, immediately after Newf Year’s-day, go out in the evening, and standing over thei spars of a gate or stile, and looking on the moon, repeat the1 following lines:—All hail to thee, Moon, all hail to thee 1I pry’thee, good Moon, reveal to meThis night who my husband shall be.IX.—By Cards.Take a pack of cards, shuffle and cut them two or threeb different times, lay them on a table nine of a row; if a man,20he must choose one of the four kings to represent himself; ifa woman, she must select one of the queens; then the queenof the chosen king, or the king of the chosen queen, willstand for husband or wife, mistress or lover, of the partywhose fortune is to be told, and the knave of the suit for themost intimate person of their family; remember that everything is within your circle as far as you can count nine anyway from the card that represents the person, his wife or herhusband, and their intimate friend; and also that the ninthcard every way is of the greatest consequence.The Ace of Clubs promises great wealth, much prosperity inlife, and tranquillity of mind.The King of Clubs announces a man who is humane, up¬right, affectionate, and faithful in all his engagements; hewill be happy himself, and make every one with whom hehas a connection so if he can.The Queen of Clubs shows a tender, mild, and rather amor¬ous disposition, one who will probably yield her maiden per¬son to a generous lover before the matrimonial knot be tied;but they will be happy, love each other, and be married.The Knave of Clubs shows a generous, sincere friend, whowill exert himself warmly in your interest and welfare.The Ten of Clubs denotes great riches to come speedilyfrom an unexpected quarter, but it also threatens that youwill, at the same rime, lose some very dear friend.The Nine of Clubs shows that you will displease some ofyour friends, by too steady adherence to your own way ofthinking.The Eight of Clubs shows the person to be covetous andextremely fond of money; that he will obtain it, but that itwill rather prove a torment than a comfort to him, as he willnot make a proper use of it.The Seven of Clubs promises the most brilliant fortune, andthe most exquisite bliss that this world can afford; butbeware of the opposite sex, from these alone you can experi¬ence misfortune.The Six of Clubs shows you will engage in a very lucrativepartnership, and that your children will nehave well.The Five of Clubs declares that you will shortly be marriedto a person who will mend your circumstances.The Four of Clubs shows inconstancy for the sake of moneyand change of object.The Tray of Clubs shows that you will be married threetimes, and each time to a wealthy person.The Deuce of Clubs shows that there will be some unfortunateopposition to your favourite inclination, which will disturb you.ISo•<A child b.™ o» the «wW «at'1‘,«”b'Sl*‘,irS to i. todo» .»»«■ “ * ««<““ »»••‘-rihe /.- d„ .< •;«"»» “n! prosper in the world, and be o g ^ done withl good to begin any ^Heaven fw a blessing,i good advice, and with depeiideneeonlleE The fifth dayof the ^on >s unfortnn^, a^U ^ ^ ^I that is born therein shall die m ^ in‘^ycertain, be mis.| danger, and thinks to escape y. d take jt but; i: s.srrTW; £ u s. b,..d1 »t«... toon ¥. 2d “>s„br.c!“ s| IXt’vS Smto'tod dec. they cb.ll 1»«™» in' leaOnnthe seventh day the ’“ild\ years; on tins day it is good * . much bybeasts, and buy hogs, for he that do h s» 6^U 8al"er 7! 3iSBHg|H£S, £j,fSv“ ?.'»». “p.~ Any thing that is lost shalll ^(Jr''the ninth day >!“'h“ ““a" ".'.‘SS. r|.n ••"£bb£,rd£SA:.i.m.-.s«sveller, pass through many k'lldd2)|Ps day butSafyrraiS b^toS A”cS X.i bo h£b,10 OrMdie eleventh day of the moon the child that is born shallbe of a good constitution, and be mightily devoted to re i^ ^twelfth slgfof the Zodiac, betokeneth nothing but sorrowand wo: and the child born this day shall be given to wrathfulness, and subject to many afflictions.licPn day the child that is born shall be of a shorme and by reason of peevish crossness never be pleased. TcTna tW,'fe 0n ‘l113 da-v is S°od> for she shall be both lovingand obedient to her husband. S^ J'?urteenth day the child that is born shall be anenemy to his country, and seek the destruction of his princewhich shall bring him to his deserved end. On thisPday ifformer'health? man phySiC’ il sha11 restore him t0 his$teefh ,da-v. the chi!d ‘hat is born shall quicklydie; On this day begin to work, for it is fortunate. Thatwhich was lost yesterday will be found this day.On the sixteenth day the child born shall be of ill mannersand very unfortunate, insomuch that, though he may livelong, yet his life will be a burden to him. It is not good todream on this day, for they are commonly hurtful, and suchas come to pass a long time after.On the seventeenth day the child that shall be born will befoolish to that degree, that it shall be almost a natural, andthereby become a great affliction to its parents; yet to con¬tract matrimony, compound physical preparations, and takephysic, is very good ; but by no means let blood.On the eighteenth day the child that shall be born, if malewill be violent, courageous, and eloquent; and if femalechaste, industrious, and beautiful, and shall come to honourin her old age.On the nineteenth day the child then born, if a male, shallbe renowned for wisdom and virtue, and thereby arrive togreat honour; but if a female, she will be of a weak andsickly constitution, yet she will live to be married.On the twentieth day the child that shall be born shall bestubborn, quarrelsome, and a great fighter, yet he shallarrive to riches and a great store of money'.On the one-and-twentieth day the child that is born will beunhappy, and though he will be witty and ingenious, yet heshall be addicted to stealing. He that is minded to keep hismoney, ought on this day to abstain from gaming, else hemay chance to lose all. Abstain from bleeding this day.On the twenty-second day the child born shall be fortunateand purchase a good estate; he shall also be of a cheerfulcountenance, comely, and religious, and shall be well loved.On the three-and-twentieth day the child born shall be of anungovernable temper, and will give himself up to wanderingabroad m the world, and seeking his fortune in foreign parts,T’waaEOBHC—23by the great of both sexes; if she is handsome, great attemptswill be made on her virtue.: The Knave of Spades shows a person who, although theyhave your welfare at heart, will be too indolent to pursue itiwith zeal, unless you take frequent opportunities of rousingItheir attention.The Ten of Spades is a card of bad import; it will, in agreat measure, counteract the good effects of the cards nearyou.The Nine of Spades is the worst card in the whole pack; itportends dangerous sickness, a total loss of fortune, cruelcalamities and endless dissension in your family.The Eight of Spades shows you will experience strongopposition from your friends, or whom you imagine to besuch; if this card comes close to you, abandon your enter¬prise, and adopt another plan.The Seven of Spades shows the loss of a most valuablefriend, whose death will plunge you into very great distress.The Six of Spades announces a mediocrity of fortune, andverv great uncertainty in your undertakings.The Five of Spades will give very little interpretation ofyour success ; it promises good luck in the choice of a com¬panion for life; that you will meet with one very fond of you,and immoderately attached to the joys of Hymen: but showsyour temper rather sullen.The Four of Spades shows speedy sickness, and that yourfriends will injure your fortune.The Tray of Spades shows that you will be fortunate inmarriage, but that your partner will be inconstant, and thatyou will be made unhappy thereby.The Deuce of Spades always signifies a coffin, but who it isfor must depend entirely on the other cards that are near it.X.—By the Temper and Disposition.The Signs of a Choleric Disposition are,1. The habit of the body hot in touch, dry, lean, hard, andhairy.2. The colour of the face yellow.3. A natural dryness of the mouth and tongue.4. The thirst great and frequent.5. Activity and inquietude of the body.6. The pulse hard, swift, and often beating,7. The spittle bitter'248 The dreams are most of yellow things, of brawls, o.fights, and quarrels. ’The Signs of a Sanguine Constitution are,o rt ha,bit 0f rh? b<?^-vhot in touch, fleshy, soft, and hairy,1The colour of the body fresh, sanguine, and lively. 'd. A natural and constant blush in the face.•f. The pulse soft, moist, and full.5. The spittle sweet.6. Dreams most commonly of red things, of beauty, feasting,:dancing, music, and all jovial and pleasing recreations.o' ooC°nt a.ual ob P'cosantness and affability.8. Often affected with jests, mirth, and laughter.The Signs of a Phlegmatic Constitution are,J-™* llablt of ,tlle body cold and mo'ist,—in touch, soft,tat, gross, and not hairy. 1 *2. A constant natural whiteness or wanness in the face,o. J he pulse soft, slow, and rare.*i* The thirst little, and seldom desiring drink5. 1 he dreams usually are of white things, floods, inunda¬tions, and accidents belonging to water.•>. Sleep, much and frequent.<. Slowness and dulness of the body to exerciseThe Signs oj a Melancholy Constitution are,o u°d/ inr t0?ch co,d' dry> lean, and smooth.t Tho c°>;V, 0fa darb- dul1’ gloomy, leaden colour.J. I he spittle in small quantities, and sour.4. Pulse little, rare, and hard..?■ pbld,reams ofterrible things, as ghosts, wild beasts, &Q,C. Greatly oppressed with fear. ’ ^7. Constancy in the performance of the thing intended.Signs of a Courteous, Civil, Generous Person.rp,he fo,'ehead lal'gc, fleshy, plain, and smooth '-• .1 he eye moist and shining.i.!' countenance expressing joy and content.4. I he voice pleasant.->■ The motion of the body slow, &c.Signs of a Churlish, Ill-natured Person.1. The form of the body meagre and lean.2. J he forehead cloudy, sullen, and wrinkled.. i he eye cast down and malicious.4. A nimble tongue.•>. hiking a short, quick, uneven pace.6. A secret murmuring to himself as he walks,WET