' • 'THE Vh-SURPRISIMG ADVENTURESI:Frederick Baron Trench, |^ >*Giving an AccountOf his being confined in a Dungeon, tvilh Chains v*:.o/68 pounds weight; and afterwards Gullo-tined in France, in the time of the Revolution, i1795. iCGLASGOW:Printed for the Booksellers.1827.(*m scoTwno ^LITE AND ADVENTURESOPFREDERICK BARON TRENCK.was born in the year 1726, at Koenigsberg,ussia. My father, descended from an ancientinly, was genera] of cavalry. He died in 1740,?r having received eighteen wounds in the ser-e of Prussia. My mother was daughter of thebsident of the Supreme Court of Koenigsberg ;; of her brothers was Minister of State, and the> others generals of infantry. After my father’si th, she married Count Loftange, Lieutenantilonel of the regiment of Cuirassiers of Kiow.lad two brothers and a sister. One of my bro-rs remained with my mother, the other wasmet in the regiment of Kiovv; and my sisterirried the only son of old General VValdow, andled in Bradenburg.(dy father sent me at the age of thirteen to theversity of Koenigsberg, where I made a rapidgress in my education. At the end of 1740 Ia dispute with a gentleman named Wallenrod,boarded in the same house. He was much•r and stronger than me; and despising mykness, thought proper to strike me. 1 demand-i atisfaction, which he refusing contemptuously,iot a second, and attacked him in the openstreet. We fought; and I had the good for|lj|to wound him in the hand and armThis affair was much talked off; and Dr Kdewski, our professor, making a complaint touniversity, I was sentenced to three hours conment; but M. Warschaw, my grandfather, plelwith my spirit, took me out of the house,placed me as a boarder with Professor ChristiThere, for the first time, 1 began to enjoyliberty.Three days after, a professed bully forceda manner to fight. I wounded him in the hiThese successes so puffed me up, that I apLed in public with a sword of enormous length,jall the appendages of a prize fighter.I should certainly have become a duellist, if!goodness of my heart, and my misfortunes, hadsoon after brought me to reason. A fortnight,!scarcely elapsed from my last quarrel, before Ianother with one of my friends, a Lieutenaitithe garrison, whom I insulted. We fought,wounded him in two places.Duelling among the students was not punisat this period. It was looked upon as an horto send a challenge.In November 1712, Baron Lottum, the KAdjutant General, a relation of my mother,sent by his Majesty to Koenigsberg. He dinmy grandfather’s, chatted a good deal withand after having sounded me by a variety ot q|tjons, asked me if l should not be tempted to s*country as my ancestors had always dcmyadding, that in the army I should find morevenient opportunities of giving challenges thatthe university. I accepted this proposal wbSi .*£'«he.4tatron ; and a feu- days after set ofiYor Po{/>!a!1f.I was presented to t!ie King, to whom I \va-»iknou'n since the year"'1746, as one of the best,.scholars in the University. He was much pleas-cd with the pertinejice ol my answers; iit'y staturefor I was tali; and my mflidy assurance. I ob¬tained permission to enter into the Life Guards,in quality of cadet, with promises of speedy pro¬motion.The Life Guards were at that time the patternanti school of all the Prussian Cavalry. They con-isisted only of one squadron of men chosen front|the whole army. Their uniform was the most,brilliant in Europe; the dress and accoutrement-of an officer costing two thousand crowns. Then cuirass, which was covered with silver, its append-I ages and the horses’ furniture, amounted alone t<*i seven hundred.This squadron consisted only of six officers* and!nn hundred and fifty-four men ; but we had al¬ways fifty or sixty supernumeraries, and as man-,spare horses; for the King took all the handsomemen he met with into his guards. The officer-were the best in the army. The king instructedthem himself, and afterwards ordered them to drib,the rest of the Cavalry.The duty of no other soldier in the world is sohard as was that of a Life Guardsman. At thetime I was in this service, I had riot eight hoursrest in eight days. The exeicise used to begin atfour o’clock in the morning, when we tried all the!new evolutions the King was desirous of introduc¬ing. We leaped ditches, three, four, five, and six;i feet wide, and even more, till somebody or otherfcroks his neck. Sometimes, in a morning’s exer-cise, we had several men and horses killed »wounded. The horses were kept in the King’stables ; and he who could not dress, arm himself fjsaddle his horse, mount, and fall into his rank iteight minutes, was put under arrest for a fortnightThe trumpet frequently sounded before we hatscarcely got into bed, by way of giving the youn|men a habit of vigilance. The Life Guards losimore men and horses in a time of profound peace,than they would have done in two battles.I had been scarcely three weeks Cadet, wherone da}', after the parade, the King took meadde,examined me for near half an hour, on a varietof subjects, and ordered me to wait on him to-mor¬row. He was desirous of seeing whether the favournble accounts he had heard of me were wetilfounded ; and to ascertain their truth, gave methe names of fifty soldiers to learn by heart, whichJ did in five minutes. He then gave me the sub¬jects of two letters, and I composed them imme-idiately in French and Latin, writing one and die*:tating the other. He afterwards desired me to|draw the plan of a piece of ground, by the eye,,and with all the dispatch possible; which I did!with the same success. He then appointed meComet in the Life Guards. He spoke to me likea King and a father; and from that moment be¬came my tutor and friend.1 was a Cadet only three weeks. When thusmade an officer, the King gave me two horses fromhi own stables, and a thousand crowns to assistin purchasing my arms, uniform, &c. I was high¬ly satisfied to find myself a courtier and an officer,in the handsomest, bravest, and best disciplinedcorps in Europe. My military fortune se«.mcd !•ka\e mo bouBa*.We passed the winter in garrison at Berlin,where the officers of our regiment lived with theiCourt; and as my reputation had preceded mei thither, nobody passed the time in a more agree¬able manner than myself.In 17i3 I was six feet threeinches high; till' then I was a stranger to love. The shockingspectacle of the hospital of Potzdam, made medread its illusions. In i 7*4', the King’s sister wasI married to the King of Sweden, whose widow shenow is. On this occasion I mounted the guard ofhonour in quality of Officer of the Guards, andwas ordered to escort her as far as Stettin. Inithe tumult inevitable in the crowd, I lost mywatch; and a sharper was also dextrous enoughIJto cut off part of the gold fringe from my waist-ijcoat. My loss was the subject ot much pleasantryamong the other- officers; and a great lady took'Occasion to say, that she would make it her busi¬ness to console me. 1 felt all the meaning of this;II and in a few days 1 was the happiest man in Ber¬lin. It was on both sides the first tribute paid toLove. Her affection for me was without bounds;and while I exist I shall never forget her kindness;fj nut the secret., of our intimacy is one of those thatI will carry with me to the grave. IShe is stillalive, and an absence of forty-three years has notj’jbeen capable of making any change in her senti-merits. My children alone shall know the nameof the person to whom they are indebted for their(father’s preservation.> I lived happy and respected at Berlin. TheI King on every occasion gave me marks of favour;my fair mistress supplied me with more moneythan I could spend, snd my appearance was soo»8more brilliant than any officar in the corps. Myexpences attracted notice, for I had only inheritedfrom my father the estate of Scharlack, which pro¬duced about a thousand crowns a year; and [sometimes spent more thamthat sum in a month.In the beginning of September 1743, war wasdeclared between Prussia and the House of Aus¬tria. VVe marched hastily towards Prague, andpassed through all Saxony without meeting withthe smallest opposition. I dare not relate herewhat the great Frederick said sorrowfully to us thevery morning ofour departure from Potzdam whenall the officers were asssmbled about his person.This time Frederick took the field with regret, asI was witness.If I do not mistake, the King’s army investedPrague on the 14th of September; that of Gene¬ral Schwerin who had marched through Silesia,came a day later from the other side of the Mulda,and we were obliged to wait eight days longer forpontoons, to open a communication between thetwo armies.General Harsch was obliged to capitulate, afiertwelve days resistance. Eighteen thousand menwere made prisoners of war; the number of thegarrison killed and wounded during the siege notexceeding five hundred.So far we met with no obstacle; however, theImperial army, under the command of PrinceCharles, who had left the banks of the Rhine, ad¬vanced to save Bohemia. His light armed troopsbeing thrice as numerous as ours, prevented ourforaging. Famine and want therefore obliged US'to retreat, having no relief to hope for from thecountry behind us, which we had laid entirely»waste on our march. The icverify of the seasonn November made the soldiers very impatient, in;ix weeks we lost forty-two thousand men, eitheruy sickness or desertion. In short, we were ob-:!;i<fed to abandon Bohemia. All the cavalry wasi dismounted for want, of forage; the severity of the: weather, the broken roads, continual marching and"epeated alarms, diffused a general spirit of dis¬content, and a third of the army deserted.I Prince Charles followed us as far as the frontierscf Bohemia and halted there, to put his troops in- .to winter quarters. This gave the King time to: recruit his army, especially by the return of his: deserters, whom the Austrians were imprudentenough to dismiss.In this campaign, I passed few nights in mytent; and my indefatigable activity procured methe favour and entire confidence of the King. No¬thing contributed so much to keep up my resolu¬tion, as the public praises .1 received, when I re¬turned to head quarters from foraging with sixtyor eighty waggons loaded, while others came backempty.I was sent one day from Beneschen on a forag¬ing party, with a detachment of thirty Hussars andtwenty Rangers. I posted my Hussars in a con¬vent, and went with the Rangers to a gentleman’sseat, to procure a sufficient number of waggons to■bring off hay and straw from an adjacent farm.But a Lieutenant of Austrian Hussars, who layconcealed in a wood with thirty-six horse, havinglirepiarked the weakness of my escort, took advan¬tage of the moment, when my people were em-) ployed in loading the waggons, and surprising myisentinel, fell suddenly upon them, and took thewhole party prisoner* in the farm yard, I was siting quietly in the gentleman’s seat, with the mistress of the house, and saw from the window wlhappened.I was afflicted beyond measure, and the gooilady was proposing to hide me, when I heardfiring at the farm. The Hussars posted at thconvent, had been told by a peasant, that then!was an Austrian detachment in the wood; the’jsaw us go into the farm-house, hastened to ouiassistance, and came up a few minutes after th«surprise. It is impossible to express the pleasurewith which I joined them. Some of the enemy’Hussars escaped by the back door; however, wemade twenty-two prisoners, among whom was £Lieutenant of the regiment of KalnockichcmThey had two men killed and one wounded, antI lost on my side two Hangers, who were killed it:the hay loft where they were at work. After tliireincounter we continued to forageOwith greateprecaution, the horses we had taken served in parto draw waasons; and havina laid the convenunder contribution to the amount of a hundrecand fifty ducats which I distributed among m’soldiers to purchase their silence, we set off to rej >iu the army. The King was at table, whencame into his tent. As 1 had been absent thwhole night, every body had supposed me takenwhich had that day been the fate of many othersThe instant I came in, the King asked me if I returned alone: ‘ No, Sire,’ answered 1 ‘ I brinjwith me five and twenty was^ons loaded with foirage, and twenty-two prisoners with their officerond horses." The King immediately made me sidown ? and turning to the English Ambasiadon11rho waa sitting beside him, tapped me on the: boulder, and said, “ This is one of my youthfuldatadors!” The horse intended to reconnoitrehe enemy was already waiting before his tent, heonsequently asked me a few questions, and tahose few I could not answer without trembling.Some minutes after he rose from table, cast hisyes on the prisoners, and putting the Order ofVIerit round my neck, ordered me to go and restnyself. As I was not without money, 1 gave eachion-commissioned officer twenty ducats, and eachirivate soldier a ducat, to induce their silence. IJetermined, however, to embrace the first oppor-,unity of making the King acquainted with theiruth, and found a convenient one two days after.We were on a march, and in quality of Cornet, 1was at the head of the troop. The King rode onoefore the drums, and beckoning to me to com;o him, addressed me in these words: “ Now,1’renck, tell me the particulars of your late success.”AVhen I heard this question, I did not doubt myaeing betrayed; but the King asked with such ap¬parent good humour, that I related the matter ex¬actly as it had passed, I observed marks of aston¬ishment in his countenance ; but I saw at the sametime that he was not displeased with my sincerity.!He talked with me half an hour, more like a fa¬ther than a King, praised my candour and con¬cluded with these words, which I shall never for¬get:—“Depend upon me, and follow my advice,and I will make a man of you.” It was not longbefore I perceived the confidence the King placedliu me after this explanation, I received manyumarks of it ia the course of the following win erI which we passed at Berlin.la our retreat fro* Bohemia, the King eater®11KoMin with his Horse Guards, the piquets Horseiitdonging to head quarters, and the second andthird battalions of Guards : we had but four pieces• {'cannon and our squadron was posted in the su¬burbs. Towards the evening, our advanced guardswere driven in; the Hussars entered with themjn.fcll into the suburbs, and the enemy’s light troopstwarmed in all the environs.Our commandment sent me immediately to re¬ceive the Kino’s orders. After having sought him agreat while, I found him at last on the top of asieep’e, with a perspective glass in his hand. Inever saw him so uneasy and undetermined as onthat day. We were ordered to retreat immedi¬ate y, and to retreat through the town to the oppo¬site suburb, where we were directed to halt with-cut taking the bridles or saddles off our horses.We were scarcely there when a dark nightcame on, accompanied by a deluge of rain. Aboutnine o’clock, Trcnk (an Austrian commander, anda relation of mine) appeared with his turkish mu¬sic, and set fire to several houses. As soon as weperceived it, we began to fire musketry out of thewindows. The tumult was terrible. The townwas so full of people that we could not force an en¬trance; the gate was shut, and our field pieces keptfiring from above. Trenk stopped the passage ofthe water; by midnight it was as high as ourhorses’ bellies, and we were almost entirely aban¬doned. We lost six men, and my horse waswounded in the neck—it is certain that the Kingas well as the rest-of us, would have been madeprisoners, if my cousin could have continued theattack. But receiving a wound in the foot \Vith acannon ball, he was obliged to be carried off, andthe Pandours retired. The day following Na»-13law’s corps came to our assistance. We left Kol-:in, and while on the march the King said to me,‘ Your cousin might have played us an unluckyrick that night; but according to the report of!ihe deserters, he was killed ”About the middle of December we arrived atBerlin, where I was received with open arms. Itvas less prudent than in former years, and per •taps more observed. A Lieutenant of the FootGuards jesting indecently on the secret of mymours, I drew upon him, and wounded him inhe face. The Sunday after, I went to pay mylourt to the King: “ Sir,” said he, the thunderoars: and, if you do not care, may fall upon yourlead.”i Some time after I came a few minutes too late0 the parade; the King remarked it, and sent meunder arrest to Potzdam, where I remained up¬wards of three weeks, owing to the artifices of Co-onel Warteslaben.1 I did not recover my liberty till three days be-ire our departure for Silesia; towards which w'eaarched only in May to begin our second cam-iaign. I will here relate an incident that hap.ened to me this winter, which became the sourceif all my misfortunes.'| Francis Baron Trenk, who commanded thed’andours in the service of Austria having beenangerously wounded in Bavaria in the year 1743,-srote to my mother to tell her it was his intentionSipTnake me his heir. This letter to which I madeo answer, was sent to me at Potzdam. The 12lhf February 1744 I was at Berlin, and went to pay> visit to Captain Isachinzki, commandant of theMfe Guards, in company with Lieutenant Stud-#itz, and Cornet Wagnitz, who Lived with me inthe same apartment. The conversation turned onthe Austrian Trenk, and Isachinzki asked me fT Iwas related to him. I answered yes, and said thathe had made me his heir. He asked me whatanswer I had made. I told him none. On thisthe whole company observed that in such circumstances, I should be much in the wrong if I did notanswer his letter. “ Write to him,” added ourcommandant, “ and desire him to send you somehandsome Hungarian horses for chafgers, Giveme your letter and 1 will have it delivered by M.de Idossart Secretary of Legation to the SaxonAmbassador, on condition that you give me one ofthe horses. This correspondence is a family con¬cern, and not an affair of state; besides I will takethe whole upon me, &c.” I sat down to write im¬mediately, in compliance with the advice of mycommanding officer. I gave my letter open to las-chinzki; he sealed it himself, and sent him away.This letter, with the following incident, was thesole cause of all my misfortunes.In the campaign oflT-t't*, one of my grooms withtwo saddle horses was taken, as well as severalothers, by Trenk’s Light troops, on my return tocamp, I was ordered to .accompany the King whowas going to reconnoitre. My horse being fa¬tigued, his Majesty immediately made me a pre¬sent of 'a beautiful Lnglish race-horse A fewdays after, I was astonished to see my groom comeback, with my two horses and a trumpet from theenemy; who brought a note, in nearly these terms:“ The Austrian Trenk is not at war with thePrussian Trenk, his cousin. On the contrary, hei« vary happy to hav* it in his [lower to send him1«: back, his horses which he lias recovered fromthe hands of his Hussars.’*That day 1 waited on the King, and was verycooly received. “ Since your cousin said he has: sent you back your horses, you have no longer anyoccasion for mine.”We marched into Silesia, to begin the secondcampaign, which was to us as destructive as glo¬rious to I’rince Charles, instead of waiting for usin Bohemia, imprudently advanced and postedhimself in the Plain of Srigau.Our army was drawn in haste, from its canton¬ments in the neighbourhood of Kamenz, and intwenty-four hours was in order of battle. The14th of June eighteen thousand dead bodies cover¬ed the plain of Strigan; and the imperial army, andthat of Saxony, its ally, were totally defeated.The Life Guards were on the right: before theI attack, the King said to our squadron, “ Now, myfriends, prove that you are my Guards, and spareno Saxon !’ Three times we changed the Cavalry,and the Infantry twice. We alone took sevenistandards and five colours, and in less than an hourall was over.I received a pistol shot in the right hand; my horsewas badly wounded, and at the third charge I wasobliged to mount another. The day following allithe officers received the order of Merit; foir mypart I remained near a month in the hospital atfSchweidotz. More than sixteen thousand wound¬ed men were dressed there; some of whom could;get no assistance till the third day.’ The campaign passed in marching and counter-(i marching: we were the most fatigued, because theL Guards encamped round the King’s tent, whichplaced in the middle of the camp, alway* formedthe van-guard.The famous battle of Soran was fought on Sep¬tember 14th. The King had sent such large de¬tachments into Saxony, Silesia, and Bohemia, thatthe grand army consisted at most of twenty-sixthousand men, had surrounded the small numberof Bradenburgh and Poinerian troops with morethan eighty-six thousand men, and was in hopesof taking them all prisoners.About midnight, the King came into my tent,and went likewise into those of the other officers to ! <wake them ; he ordered the horses to be saddledwithout noise, the baggage to be left behind, and (the whole army to hold themselves in readiness for ■action."Eight field pieces were placed behind a risingground opposite the defile through which the King ’meant to pass, and where it was intended to be- ■gin the action. He must have received informa¬tion of all the designs of the Austrian General, for :he bad called in all the advanced posts on theheights to inspire him with greater confidence.At the dawn of day, the Austrian artilleryplanted on the heights, cannonaded our camp, andthe cavalry, advanced to attack us, entered the de¬file.immediately drew up in order of battle, and tin less than ten minutes began the attack; notwith¬standing our small number of men, (there were i:17only five regiments of cavalry with our army,) andJfdl with the greatest rapidity on the enemy, at:hat moment employed in slowly forming their(squadrons in the front of the defile. We droveihem back into the defile, which was crowded fullof men. The King immediately ordered the eight'ield pieces to be unmasked, and they made terriblehavoc.Nedaste Trenk, and the light troops that were tohave attacked us in the rear, stopped to pillage oureamp; and it is worthy of remark, that when newsvvas brought to the King, that, the Croats were pil-aging the camp, he answered, “ So much the bet¬ter, they will have something to do, and will notprevent us from carrying the principal point.” Wewere completely victorious, but lost the baggage.The head-quarters, left without defence were en¬tirely pillaged ; and Trenk had for his share ofthe plunder, the king’s tent, and all his silver plate.A few days after the battle of Soran, the post-manbrought me the following letter from my cousinTrenck, dated from Essex, and written four monthsbefore.“ I find by your letter from Berlin, of date Feb.;12th, that you desire me to send you some Hunga-irian horses, that you may employ them against myHussars and Pandours, I perceived with plea¬sure in the last campaign, that the Prussian Trenckwas a good soldier. As a proof of my attachment!I sent you back your horses, which my people had(taken. But if you want Hungarian horses, try! next campaign to carry off mine by open force;' «r else come and join your cousin, who will re*•eive you with open arms, will treat you like a son jjand his friend, and will procure you all the advan- jjtagcs you can desire.” &c.Cornet Wagnitz and Lieutenant Gratthauson nwho are both alive were present; I gave them the {jletter, w* laughed at its contents; and it was re- jjsolved that we should shew it to Colonel laschinzki, ||coinmanctant of the corps, on condition that he jjShould not speak of it. An hour after we did as J|we had agreed. When he had read my letter Hw ith an appearance of astonishment, we all beganto laugh; and as there was a report that a body Oftroops would be sent to Hungary, laschinzki said,“ we will go ourselves and take Hungatian horses.”Here the conversation dropped. I cannot helpmaking the following observations on the subject.1. I had not observed that the date of the letterwas four nionths anterior to its receipt; this myCofdnel did pot fail to do.2. It was probably a snare laid by laschinzki.The sending back of my horses in the precedingcampaign had made a noise. Perhaps I had beenpersuaded to wnitc, that I might be entrapped bya forged answer; for it is certain that my cousinimaintained till his death, that he never received aletter from me, and that consequently he hadsent no answer. I still think (and shall alwayscontinue in the same mind) the letter was forged.Without the liberty of making any defence, orof being tried by a court-martial, I w as confined asa criminal in the citadel of Glaiz, I was not in a4»idungeon, but in the officer's guard-room, l waspermitted to walk upon the ramparts, and waswaited on by my own servants.I wrote to the King, and demanded a court-martial, offering to submit to any punishment what¬ever, if found guilty. So determined a style, in soyoung a man, did not please him, and I receivedno answer.From my female friend at Berlin, I receivedsome consolation, and a thousand ducats.Here the Baron enlarges on the differentschemes he tried to effect his escape from the pri¬son of Glaiz, his adventures in Bohemia and Po¬land, with Lieutenant Schell, who deserted alongwith him; the barbarous treatment he receivedfrom the Austrian Trenckat Vienna; and gives arecital of the causes of that General’s disgrace andiimprisonment, which ends with the followingstrange relation of the manner ot his death.”It was not in Trench’s power to prevent my in¬heriting his father’s fortune, which was entailed onme; wishing, however, to give me marks of hishatred after his death, he made a will full of absurd1 *and contradictory clauses, which served the with-holdets of his fortune, as a pretext to strip me ofJit. -Though Trenck was an atheist, nobody had ai more ardent desiic than he to acquire an extraor-Ulinary reputation; he therefore resolved to put ayend to his existence: and to make himself pass Ia saint at his death.For this purpose, three days before his deal•when he was in the best of health possible, hequested the commandant to send to Vienna forconfessor; St. Francis having, as he said, decled to him that he would die on his birth-daynoon precisely. Though every body laughedhis prediction, the Capuchin Friar was sent for.The day after Trenck had confessed himself,exclaimed, “ God be praised ! my end approach!my confessor is just dead, and has appeared to mtUpon inquiry it was found that the monk \ireally dead. Trenck then begged all the officeof the garrison to come to his prison : tooktonsure, dressed himself in the habit of a Cap.chin Friar; made a public confession and prcaced an hour, exhorting his audience to thinktheir salvation. He then took leave of them, kn.down to say his prayers, fell into a sound sletrose and prayed again. Oct. the 4th he lookedhis watch at eleven o’clock in the morning, ajcried out, “ God be praised, my last hour is rfar off.” Every body present was much entertaiied at seeing a man of his character play so ridiclous a comedy. However,. it was remarked tlhis face was pale on the left side. He then seathimseit beside a table, leaned his head upon ihand, and after saying a prayer, continued nr.•tionless, with his eyes shut.Jn the month of March, 1754, I received ne: of the death of my raother, and asked the Board1 of War for six months leave of absence to go toDanteick, in order to concert with my brotherst and sisters on the steps necessary to be taken, re¬lative to any possessions that had been confiscatedin Prussia. I obtained it; and in the month ofMay, set off for that city, where I fell a secondtime into the hands of the Prussians.itIIJ-The people of Vienna concerned in my cousin’seffects, by several base schemes and false insinua¬tions, endeavoured to get me again into the handsof the Prussians, that they might quietly enjoy thatfortune which was justly my due.My brothers and sister came to meat Dantzick,in May. We passed a fortnight together, andshared mv mother’s fortune.The Baron’s pleasures were short lived ; theMagistracy of Dentzick, intimidated or bribed bythe King of Prussia, whose revenge was still unsa¬tisfied, when he was on the very eve of departingfrom their city, arrested and surrendered him intothe hands of that despot; and with a strong escorthe was conducted to the Garrison of Magdeburghin Prussia.”The King ordered a new dungeon to be builton purpose for me, and prescribed the forms of thechains I was to wear. When I was led to it, goodHeaven ! what did I perceive; but two lock-i smiths with their hammers and artvil, and the wholefloor was covered with chains of about 68 poundsweight They went immediately to work; ray jij*feet were fastened to a ring gunk in the wall, at U1’about three feet from the ground, so that I could Ifonly take two or three steps on each side. They jSthen girt my naked body with a broad iron girdle, 'from which descended a chain, fastened at the nother extremity to a bar of iron two feet long. At I]each end of this bar was a handcuff that confinedmy liands; and a collar was added in 1756. Assoon as the work was completed, every body retir¬ed in silence; and I heard the dreadful creaking of 'of four doors, which shut close upon one another.4&'< ’ ».)■ f a-;.. ■iThe name of Trenck was incrusted on the wallwith red brick*; and under my feet was a tomb in¬tended for me, on which also was my name and aDeath’s head. There were two oaken doors tothe dungeon ; and in the way to it a kind of lobby,into whjch a window had been opened, which waslikewise secured by two doors of the same kind.It was the King’s intention that this dungeonshould be built in such a manner, as to put it outof my power to have the least communication withthe centinel; it was surrounded with pallisadestwelve feet high, forming a kind of park ; and thekey was deposited with the guard-officer.' I hadtamed a mouse so perfectly, that the little animal fwas continually playing with me, and used to eatout of my mouth. One night it skipped about somuch, that the centinels hearing a noise, madetheir report to the officer of the guard. TheTown Major arrived early in the morning accom¬panied by locksmiths and masons. The floor, thewalls, my chains, and my body were strictly exam-*siaed: but ftntbug ati in order, tfoev asked w« dieeause of last eTening’* bustle. I frankly told them^by what it had been occasioned ; on which theydesired me to call my little favourite. I whistled,and it immediately leaped upon my shoulder. Isolicited its pardon, but the officer of the guardtook it into his possession, promising, however, togive it to a lady, for whose care he would answer.Turning it afterwards loose in his chamber, themouse soon disappeared, and hid itself in a hole.But at the usual hour of visiting my prison, whenthe officers were just going away, the poor littleanimal darted in, climbed up my legs, seated itselfon my shoulder, and played a thonsand tricks, toexpress its joy. Every one was astonished at thisstriking instance of animal sensibility. The Ma¬jor carried the mouse away, and gave it to his wife,Iwho had a light cage made for it; but the littleanimal refusing to eat, was, in a few days after,found dead.In this seclusion, the Baron remained about nineyears, when the King probably tired of punishing,consented to his release. After which, he retiredto Vienna, where he was confined a short time atthe instigation of those who enjoyed his property,lunder a false charge of madness. He found him-Iself necessitated to withdraw his pecuniary daims,and for all his losses, only received the brevet rankaf Major in the Austrian service.No doubt the Revolution in France pointedout that country as a place where he might finishhim days in liberty and peace; what then must be24ifee reader’s astonishment at the tragical f:wnich the Baron at last met in that nation !does not appear what part he took in politics;upon what specific charges he was sentencedthe Guillotine, upon the downfall of Robcspterparty.“ God who hitherto has enabled me, amidsthousand perils, to act the part of an honest mand of a real martyr to the cause of Truth, willtrust, protect and strengthen me in the last sciof my tragedy, nor suffer my fortitude to fail iwhen I meet with obstacles insurmountable.”