T H EH I S T O R YO F T H EEmperor Manalay,AND K I SVIRTUOUS WIFE.A Story taken from Antient HiHory.Htre Virtu; got it’s jujl reward,‘Tho* cojl the hair much pain ;■At youjhal! quickly ujderjland,When you perufe the fame.GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. & M. ROBERTSON,Saltmarket, iSoc.( 2 )*%• 4'* 4* *4* 4* 4* “ 4* 4- 44* 4* 4* *44*T H EHISTORYO FManalay and his Cruel Brother :OR, THECHASTE EMPRESS,N Rome there once dwelt a mightyJ Emperor named Manalay, whohad wedded the King’s Daughter ofHungaria, a fair lady and grateful inall her works, efpecially (he was, mer¬ciful. On a time as the Emperor layin his bed, he bethought himfelf thathe would go viht the Holy Land.And on the morrow, he called to himthe Emprefs his wife, and his ownonly brother, and thus he (aid: DearXady, I may not, nor will not hideManalay and his cruel, &c. 3from you the privities of my he?.rt, fpurpofe to vifit the Holy Land, where¬fore, I ordain thee principally to beLady and Governefs over all my Em¬pire, and ail my people; and under:hee I ordain here my brother to be:hy Steward, and to provide all thingshat may be profitable to my empiremd my people.Then faid the Emprefs, firice it willlio otherwife be, but that thou wiltfeed go to vifit the City of Jerula-em, 1 (hall be in your abfence as trues any turtle that has loft her mate;or as I believe you {hall not efcapehence with your life.The Emperor then comforted herdth fair words and killed her, andfter that took Ins leave of her andH others, and went to the City oferufalem.And anon after the Emperor wasbne, his brother became fo proud,nat he opprefled poor men and robbed'ph men; and he did worfe than this,*r lie daily ftirred the Emprels toknmit fin with him: Hut ever an-sered again as an holy and devoutpman, and faid, I will (quoth fhe)4 Mana^ay and Ills cruel Brother,never corJ’ent to you nor to any otheas long as my Lord livetli; neverthekds, this Kaight would not leave ojwith this anfwer, but ever when hfound her alone, he made his cornplaint ro her, and ilirred her-by a!l thways that he could to fin with him.When this Lady faw tat he woulinot ceafie for anv anfwer, nor woul>not amend idmitlf; when ihe faw hetime, (he called to her three or four c 1the w orthieft men of the empire, an; ■iaid to them thus*-: Is it net knowm tjyou, that my Lord the Lmperor or>;darned me principal Governor of thfEmpire, and has alio ordained hitWother.to be Steward under me, an<c he 'hculd do notning without m :ounfel, but he doth all contrary, fa ‘ae pppreffeth greativ poor men, andSkew He robbeth the rich: And yet hwould do more than this if he migL;have his intent; wherefore 1 com manyou in my Lora’s name, that you binhim ftfit and cad him into prifomThen laid they, inafmueh as Lhath done many evil deeds iir.ee ouLord the Emperor went away, thenfore we are ready to obey your couj.or. the Chafle F.ntor^fs. ftt « Krmands, but in this master you roofianfwer for us to our Lord the Emperor,Then faid Ihe, dread ye not, it mvLord knew what he hath done as wellas 1, he would put him to the fouleftdeath that could Tie thought, imme¬diately thefe men laid hands on him^land bound him fait with iron chains*and put him into prifoo, where helay a long time after, ti-: at lall; ithappened, there came tidings, that theEmperor was coining home, and hadobtained great renown and victory.When his brother heard of his com¬ing, he faid, I would to God, my'brother might not find me in prilon,for if h^ do, he wi”; enquire the caufe,of my imprifonmen: of the hmprefi:,and fhevv dl tell him all the'truth how1 moved her to commit fin, and faon her account; 1 {ball have n > favourof my brother, but lofe my life ; thisknow 1 well: 1’herefore it ihaii notbe fo. i hen fen:’ he a aicfiboger untothe fvnprds, praying 1 cr, that filewould vcndifafe to come to tire pri-fen door, that he might fpeak a wordcr two with her.The Emprefs came to him, and en-6 Man day and his cruel Brother, 'cjuired of him what he would have iHe anfwered and faid, O Lady! havernercy upon me, for if the Kmperoimy brother find me in prifon, thenfhall i die without any remedy.Then faid the Emprefs, if 1 might;know that thou woukleft be a good,man, and leave thy folly, thou fhould-'efi. find grace. Then did he promifeher aiTurediy to be true, and amendall his trefpaffes. When he had thuspromifed, the Emprefs delivered himanon, and made him to be bathedand {haven, and apparelled him wor-.daily according to his (late, and thendie faid unto him thus. Now Good-brother, take thy deed and come withme, that we may meet my Lord. Heanfwered and laid, Lady, Lam readyto fulfil your will and commandmentin all things, and then the Emprefstook him with her and many otherKnighte, and fo rode forth to meetche Emperor: And as they rode toge¬ther by the way, they faw a great hartrun before them, wherefore every manwith fuch hounds as they had, chafedhim on horfe-back, fo that with theEmprefs was left no creature lave on-or, the Chafte Emprefs. 7ly the Emperor’s brother, who feeingthat no man was there but they two,thus he fiid unto the Emprefs : Lo,Lady, here is nigh us a private foreft,and long it is ago that 1 fpoke to theeof love, come now and confent untome, that I may lie with thee.Then faid the Emprefs, Ah ! fool,what may this be ' yefterday 1 deliver¬ed thee out of prifon upon thy pro-mi fe in hope of amendmenr, and nowthou art returned to thy folly again,wherefore l fay now unto thee, as fhave faid before, there fhall no mando fuch a thing with me, fave only myLord the Emperor, which he oughtof very duty to do. Then, faid he, Ifthou wile not confent to me, I fir allhang thee here upon a tree in thisf red, where no man lhall find thee,and fo fhsk thou die an evil death.'I he Emprefs anfwered meekly andfaid, though thou fmite off my head,or pat me to death with all mannerof torments, thou fhait never have myconfent to fu< h a fin,Y/hen he heard this, lie unclothedher all fave her fmock, and hangedher up by the hair upon a tree, andS Manalay^and his cruel Brother,tied her deed before her, and fo rodeto his fchovrs, and told them, that agreat ho ft of men met him, and tookthe Emprefs away from him, andwhen he had told them this, they allmade great lamentation.It befel on the third day after, therecame an Earl to hunt in that foreft,and as lie rode beating the bufhes, heunkennels a fox, which his houndsfollowed faff till they came near thetree where the Emprefs hanged. AndV. hen the dogs fmelt the favour of her,they left the fox,*and ran towards thetree a? faft as they could.The Earl, feeing this, wonderedgreatly, and fpurring his horfe, fol¬lowed them,'’till he came where theEmprefs hanged, when the Earl fawher thus hanging, he marvelled great¬ly, for as much as fhe was right fairand beautiful to behold ; wherefore,lie faid unto her in this wifei O wo¬man who art thou’? and of what coun¬try ? and wherefore hangeft thou herein this manner ?The Emprefs. that was not yet fullydead, but at point ready to die, an-fWered and faid, I am (quoth Ihe) aor, the Chade EmpreC. 9flrange woman, and am cdme out ofa far country, but how i came hither,God knovveth. Then anfwered theEarl, and faid, whofe horfe is this that(landeth by thee bound to this tree ?Then anfwered the Lady, and faid,that it was hers. When the Earl heardthis, he faw well that ihe was a gen¬tlewoman, and come of noble lineage,wherefore he was the rather movedwith pity, and fiid unto her, O fairLady, thou feemeft of noble blood, andtherefore, I purpofe to deliver theefrom this mifehief, if thou wilt pro-mife to go with me, and nourkh myfair young daughter, and teach herat home in my cafUe, for I have nochild but only her, and if thou keepher well, thou fnalt have a good rewardfor thy labour. Then, faid fie, Asfar forth as i can or may, 1 ihall ful¬fil your intent. And when fhe hadthus promifed him, he took her downoff the tree, and led her home to hiscattle, and gave her the keeping of hisdaughter, that he loved fo much, andflie was cherifhed fo well, that fh? layevery night in the Earl's chamber,and his daughter with her ; And inlo Manalay and his cruel Brother,the chamber every night there burneda lamp, which hanged between theiimprefs’s bed and the Earl’s bed.This Lady behaved herfelf fo gently,that flie was beloved of every crea-• /ture. There was at that time in theEarl’s houfe, a Steward, who lovedmuch this Emprefs, and often fpoketo her of his love. But die anfweredhim again, and faid, Know dear friend,for a certainty, that I will never loveany man in fuch a manner, but onlyhim, whom I am greatly bound tolove by God’s commandments,Then faid the Steward, Then thouwilt not confent unto me ? (Sir quothihe,) what need you any more to alkfuch things ! The vow that I havemade I will truely keep, and hold bythe grace of God.And when the Steward heard this,he went his way in great wrath andanger, thinking within himfelf, if lmay, I ihall be revenged on thee.It befel upon a night within diorttime after, that the Earl’s chamber-door was forgotten and left unlhut,which the Steward had anon perceiv¬ed. And when they were all a deep,or, the Chafle Emprefs. Ithe went and fpied by the light of thelamp where the Emprefs and the maid-den lay together, and with that hedrew out his knife, and cut the throatof the Earl’s Daughter, and put theknife into the Emprefs’s hand, Ihebeing aileep, and not knowing there¬of, to the intent that when the Earlawaked, he fhould think that fhehad cut his Daughter’s throat, and fuwould fhe be put to a fhameful deathfor this mifchievous deed. And whenthe damfel was thus flain, and thebloody knife in the Emprefs’s hand,the Counrefs awaked out of her deep,and faw by the light of the lamp,the bloody knife in the Emprefs’shand, wherefore Ihe was almoft outof her wits, and faid, to the Earl, Omy Lord! Behold in yonder Lady’shand, a wonderful thing.The Earl awaked, and looked to¬wards the Emprefs’s bee), and faw thebloody knife, as the Countefs had fatd:Wherefore he was greatly moved, andcried to her, and faid, Awake womanout of deep, what thing is this that Ifee in thy hand: Then the Emprefsthrough his cry, awaked out of herV12 Manalay and his cruel Brother,deep, ; and in her waking, the knifefell out of her hand, and with thatihe looked by her, and found theEarl’s daughter dead by her tide, andall the bed befpiinkled with blood,wherefore with an high voice Ihe cri¬ed, and faid, Alas 1 alas ! and woe isme. My Lord’s daughter is flain.Then cried the Countefs unto theEarl, with a piteous voice, and faid,O my Lord, let this devililh womanbe put to the foulelt death that can bethought, which hath thus llain ouronly child.Then when the Countefs had thusLaid unto the Earl, he faid to the Em-prefs in this wife, The high Godknoweth, that thou mifchievous wo¬man, haft flain my daughter withthine own hands, for I faw the bloody iknife in thy hand, and thereforethou flialt die a fold death. Thenfaid the Earl in this wife: O thou wo¬man, were it not 1 dread God great¬ly, l fhould cleave thy body w ith myfword in two parts, for 1 delivered theefrom hanging, & now thou halt lluinmy daughter, nevmhelels, from methou flhaic have no harm, thereforeor, the Chafte Emprefs. 13go thy way out of this city withoutany delay, for if I tind thee here afterthis day, thou ihalt die a molt crueldeath.Then arofj this woeful Eniprefh,and put on her clothes, and afterleapt on her palfrey, and rode towardthe ead alone without any fafe con-dud; and as Ihe rode thus mourningby the way, fhe efpyed on the leftfide of the way, a pair of gallows,and feven officers, leading a man tobe hanged, wherefore (he was movedwith great pity, and fmote her horfewith her dick, and rode up to them,praying them, ihe might redeem thatmi (doer, if he might be laved fromdeath by any means.Then faid they, Lady, It pleafethus well that you redeem him. An¬on, the Emprefs accorded with themand paid his rardbm and he was de¬livered.Then faid Ihe to him, Now mygood friend, be true to me ’till thoudie, lince I have delivered thee fromdeath.Un my foul (quoth he) I promifeyou ever to be" true. And when heT 4. Manalay and his cruel Brother,had thus faid, he followed the Lady,’till they came near a city, and thenfaid the Emprefs to him ; good friend,go forth thy way before me into thecity, and fee thou take up for us anhoned lodging, for there 1 purpofe toreft a while. Her man went forth asfhe commanded, and took up for hera good and an honed lodging, where{he abode a long time When themen of the city perceived her beauty,they wondered greatly, wherefore ma¬ny of them craved of her unlawfullove, but all was in vain, for theymight not fpeed in any. wife.It happened after upon a.day, thatthere came a fhip full of merchan¬dize, and arrived in the ha^en of thatcity : When the Lady heard this, fhefaid unto her fervant, Go to the fhip,and fee if there be any cloth for myufe.Her fervant went forth to the flaip,where he found many very fine clothes;wherefore he praved the mailer of the{hip, that he would come into thecity, and fpeak with his Lady. Themader granted him, and fo the fervantcame home to his Lady before, andor, the Ciiafle Emprefs.warned her of the coming of the maf-ter of the {hip. Soon after the matterof the fhip came and fainted her cour-teouily : And the Lady received himaccording to his degree, praying himthat die might have for her moneyinch cldth as might be convenient forher wearing. Then he granted that{he fhould have any thing that fheliked, and foon they were agreed,wherefore the fervant went immedi¬ately again with the matter of the (hipfor the cloth. And when they wereboth within on fhip-board, the matterfaid to the Lady’s fervant: My dearfriend, to thee 1 would open my mind,if I might trutt to thee, and if thouhelp me, thou fhalt have of me agreat reward. Then anfwered he,and faid : 1 fli ill (quoth he) be fworn.to thee to keep thy couniel, and ful¬fil thine intent as far forthwith as Ican.Then faid the matter of the fhip, Ilove thy Lady more than L can tell thee,for her beauty and feature is fo excel¬led, that 1 would give for the love ofher, all the gold that l have: And ifI may obtain the love of her throughManway and his cruel Brother, ithy help, I nil! give thee whatevejthou wilt defire of me.Then {aid the Lady’s fervaftf, Telme by what means I may help thee-—Then faid the mailer of the fhlp, g*home to thy Lady again, and tell herthat I will not deliver to thee the clot!except Ihe come herfelf; and do thoibut bring her to my (hip, and if thewind be good and nt, then I purpofito lead her away. Thy counfel isgood quoth the Lady’s fervant, there¬fore give me fome reward and I lliallfulfil thy defire.Now when he had received his re¬ward, he went again to the Lady andtold her, that by no means the malletof the Blip would deliver him thecloth, except ihe came herfelf.The Lady believed her fervant, an lwent to the (hip. Now when the waswithin the {Lip-board, her fervant a-bode without.When the matter faw that hie waswithin the thip, an 1 that the wind■was good, he drew up the fail andfailed forth.When the Lady perceived this, thushie faid to the mailer, O matter,or, the Chafte Emprefs. 17quoth flie) what treafon is this ihouiaft done to me ? The marter anfvver-:d and faid, Madam, certainly it isb, that I muft needs lie wiih thee,ind afterwards efpoufe thee. O good5ir, quoth fne, 1 have made a vow,hat 1 Ihill never do fuch a thing but’iyith him unto whom I am bound byight and by the Itw. Soorhly (quoth[ie) if yon will not grant it me Withyour good will, I will call you outnto the midft of the fea, and there(hall you die.an evil death: if it befb (quoth flie) that 1 mull needs con-fent, or elfe die; firft, I pray thee, toprepare a private place in the end ofthe fhip, whereas, I may fulfil thineintent ere 1 die, and aUb, I pray thee,that I may fay my prayers unto theFather of Heaven, that he may havemercy on me.The mailer believed her, whereforehe did ordain her a cabbin in the endof the Ihip, wherein fiie kneeled downon both her knees, and marie herprayer, faying on this wife, ‘ O thoumy Lord God, thou haft kept me frommy youth in cleannefs, keep me nowthat I be not defloured, lb that 1 mayi8 Manalay and his cruel Brother,ever ferve thee with a clean heart anmind, and let not this wicked maprevail with me, nor any other lik;wickednefs come nigh me.’ Whe idie had ended her prayers, there arohfuddenlv a great temped;.in the fe?fo that the fhip broke all in pieces ansall that were therein perifhed, fav1the Lady, as they thought; and Hi-'caught a cable and laved herfelf, anathe mafter caught a board of the fhij:and laved hi mfelf like wife : Neverthealefs knew not of him, nor he ofher, for they were driven to diverscoafts, The Lady landed in her ownempire, near to a rich city, whereinfhe was honourably received, and (helived fo holy a life, that God gave hergrace and power to heal tick folk ofall manner of difeafes : Wherefore]there came much people to her, bothcrooked, blind, and lame, and everyman tin dugh the grace of God, andher good behaviour was healed, where¬fore, Her name was known throughdivers regions. Neverthelels Hie wasnot known as the Fmprefs. At thefame time the Rmperor’s brother thathad hanged her before by the hair,or, the Chahe Emprefs. 19was-fmitten with a foul leprofie. TheKnight that flew the Earl’s Daughterand put the bloody knife in her hand,was blind, deaf, and had the palfie.The thief that betrayed her to themafler of the fliip, was lame and fullof the cramp. And the mafler of thefliip deprived of his wits.When the Emperor heard that fbholy a woman was in the city, hecalled his brother, and faid to himthus, Let us go dear brother, untothis holy woman that is dwelling inthis city, that fhe may heal thee ofthy leprofie. Would to God, O noblebrother (quoth he) that 1 were healed.Anon, the Emperor with his brotherwent towards the city. Then whenthe citizens heard of his coming, theyreceived him honourably, with pro-cefiion and all proviflon becoming hiscflate. And then the Emperor enquir¬ed ot the citizens, if any Inch holywoman was among them, that couldheal lick folk of their difeafes. The ci¬tizens anfwered and faid, thatfuch anone there was. Now at the fame time,was come to the fame city, the Knightwho flew the Earl’s daughter, and the20- Manalay and his cruel Brother,thief which {he faved from the gal¬lows, and the matter of the Ihip whoha betrayed her, to be healed of theirdvfea<es.Then was the Emprefs called forthbefore die Emperor, but the mu filedher face as well as file could, that theEmperor, her huiband fhould' notknow her, and when (he had fo done,file fainted him with great reverence,as appertained to his ftate: And again,he in hke manner, faying thus, Og; t d Lady, it t.iou |)!eafe of thy kind-nefi to heal my brother, of his lepro-fie ; afi-; of me what thou wii!, and Ilha!l gram it thee for tliy reward.When the Emprefs heard this, finelooked about her, and law there theEmprrcrVbrother a foul Leper; (hefaw there a fo me Knight that (lewthe Lari’s Daughter, blind and deaf:The thief that (lie faved frcm the gal¬lows, lame: And alfo, the matter ofthe fhip, deprived of his wits, andall were come to her to be healed oftheir maladies, and knew her not: Butthough they knew her not, (he knewthem well. Then (aid (he unto theEmperor thus. My reverend Lord, tho’or, the Chafte Fmprefs. 21you would give me all your Empire, Icannot heal your brother, nor any ofthefe other, except they acknowle dgeopenly what great evil they have done.When the Emperor heard this, heturned him towards his brother andPaid unto him ; brother, acknowledgeopenly rhy iin, before all thefe men,that thou may eft be h' aled ot thyiicknel’s. Then anoa he began to tellhow he had led his life; but he toldnot how he had hanged the Emprefsin the foreit by the hair of the headmolt defpigh-:fully.When he had acknowledged all hethought ht, the Emprefs, replied and- (kid, ooothly my Lord, I would glad¬ly lay unto him my medicine, but Iknow right well it is in vain, for hehath nor mar e a full confefiion.The Emperor hearing this, he turn¬ed towards his brother, and Paid intin w:de, What evil forrow, or otherunhappy wretchednefs is in thee ?Seed thou not how that thou ait afou' Leper? Ih refore, acknowledgethy f*a truly, that thou inayeit bewhole, <.r ell.e avoid my company forever more.22 Manalay and his cruel Brother,Ah my Lord (quoth he) I dare nottell my life openly, except I be lureof thy pardon. What haft thou tref-pafTed againft me ? laid the Emperor,Then anfwered his brother, and faid,Mine offence againft: thee is grievous,and therefore, I afk thee heartily for-givenefs. The Emperor thought noton the Emprefs, forasmuch as he 1’up-pofed, fhe had been dead many yearsbefore*, he commanded his brother totell forth wherein he had offendedhim, and he Ihould be forgiven,When the Emperor had thus for¬given his brother, he began to tell o-penly how he had defired the Emprefsto commit adultery with him, and be-caufe fhe denied, he had hanged herby the hair in the foreft on fuch a day.When the Emperor heard this, hewas almoft befide himfelf, and in thisrage he faid thus : O thou wretchedcreature, the vengeance of God is fal¬len upon thee, and were it not that Ihave pardoned thee, thou ftiould diethe moft fhameful death that could bethought.Then faid the Knight that flew theEarl’s daughter, I wot not, quoth he,or, the Chafte Emprefs. 23ch^t Lady you are, but l wot that my.ord found on a time fuch a Ladytanging in the foreft, and broughticr home to his caftle, and he tookier and gave her his daughter to keep,nd i provoked her as much as I couldo {in with me; but fhe would in novife confent unto me, wherefore Ilew the Earl’s Daughter that lay withler, and when 1 had fo done, I puthe bloody knife in the Lady’s hand,hat the Earl Ihould think that flietad (lain his daughter with her ownland, and then fhe was exiled thence,iut where fhe went 1 wot not.Then faid the thief, I wot not ofwhat Lady you fpeak ; but well I wot‘hat feven officers were leading me todie gallows, and fuch a Lady cameriding by, and bought me of them :And then went I with her and after¬wards 1 betrayed her unto the maflerof the ihip.Such a Lady quoth the mafler of the(hip received I, and when we were inthe nidft of the fea, I would have lainwith her, but ffie kneeled down to(her prayer;-, and anon there arofe (ucha temped, that the ihip broke all ip24 Manalay and his erne’, 8zc.pieces, and all therein were dro wnetlave ihe and 1, but afterwards whrbecame of her I know not.Then cried the Emprefs with a lodvoice, and fiiid, Soothly, dear friend*Ye do now truly confefs and declar-the truth, wherefore I will now apphmy medicine, and anon they receivertheir healths.When the Lady the Emprefs hatthus done, Ihe uncovered her face tcthe Emperor, and he forthwith knewher, and ran to her and embraced herin his arms, and killed her often¬times; and for joy he wept bitterly:Saying, Bldfed be God, now I havefound what l defired. And when hehad thus laid, he led her home to hispalace with great joy; and after, whenit pleafed Almighty God, they endedboth their lives in peace and reft.F I N I S.GLASGOW,P R IN T E D by J. & M. ROBERTSONSaltmarket. i8ce,