SKETCHOF THEife and Transactions' OFSETER BROWN,AN ENGLISH SAILOR.I''at air early period of life* run away from his fa-: a-’s house, and went to sea; and after a long ab-: ice returned home with plenty of money and va-i i.ble jewels, which he hatl got by plunder. Also> -Account how he entered his parents' house as 2\ anger wanting lodgings, and they not knowingJ d to be their son, watched till he was asleep, and“ i:n Murdered hith: in the most barbarous mannerj!; the sake of his riches. Likewise an Account how> sy discovered next morning that he was their own. Id. Whenlhey ended tlreir lives with the samei ife .they had butchered him; and how his sister,lining into the room, was so overcome at the sighti (he bloody scene, that she fell suddenly down,11 instantly expired.EDINBURGH:|ited for the Booksellers in Town and Country.I (P'AtPOriet Penny.) ‘AND TRANSACTIONS; [PETER BROWN.'ASOME time ago, there'lived a maniPerin m Corfiwall, whose nanias the sequel will show, we are not at|berty to. insert. He, was, blessed with|ample possession and fruitful issue,•happy only in a younger son, who, wlilie left his father, - went under-tlieiniof Peter Brown.Peter being of a wily and ehterprhdisposition, joined with a crew of siglers, who went a roving to sea, and s<became’ pirates, making prize of all whthey could master ; and so increased jwealth, number, -and strength,- that--*!the Straits they adyanced z upon a lai’T urkish vessel, richly laden,'where tlgot a great booty ; but their powdeimischance tal^ip^^rjei'OPP hero trustiliI! his skilful sv/imrhing, got to shorei.fdn the Isle of Rhodes, with the be^t•! his jewels about him.il Some time after, he ofiered a few‘'oft cm for sale to a Jew, who knew thdhif: be 'the .governor’s of A%iers. Wher'e-bbri he w:ak apprghehcJejfi1 ieqd fo^ a_ jji-te condemned to the gallies amengstL her Christians ; but their miserable!>,avery made them use their wits ;tq re-!wer their, former liberty ; a^d atcord-igly, Watched their opport\.mitSr, theyew some of tHeir officers, iltld valfulthheased themselves."Peter, sodmafter this exploit, gbtaboafdf an Rngli'sh ship, arid came safe toiondoh, where‘his foVmerhrnisdf y', addome skill that he had gotteA' ‘ that* Way,^referred him to be servant to a surgeon,vho, after a while,.sent him to the Sa!stndies. Out; hero was not long there tiil,)y his drfigOHce ahd industry, he'mAdeJibhey, with which he returnea' to Ehg-land. And, longing 'to ’see* his ' nativecounty, Cornwall, in a small sdiio fropx^London he sailed westvVard, ’fetrt1lie attained his desired port, he was.away upon that coast, where once me <his excellent skill in swimming brouglhim safe to shore. Having now been it] f^een years absent, before he discover ;himself to any of the family, he ma;what inquiries he could to learn how tmfared, and understood that his father it]1much decayed in his estate, and had 11tired himself to live privately in a plajnot far offj being in debt and danger. ;|jHis sister he finds married to a merce].a meaner match chen her birth promisedto her he at first appeared as a pocjstranger, but he soon took an oppoi ’iSnity to let her know that he was her brether, and in a private manner shewed helwhat jewels and gold he had concealejin a bow-case about him; and concludelby telling her, that the next day he iflltended to discover himself to his parents|yet to keep his disguise till she and hehusband should come thither to makitheir common joy complete.Being come to his parents’ door, hishumble behaviour, and jparticularly his5!,mean attire, melted the old people intoi so much compassibp, that they imme-jj diately consented to give him shelterifrom the cold season under their humhle-i roof. By degrees, his stories, his travels,l adventures, and sufferings, he told withmuch passion to the old people, madehim their guest so long by the kitchenfire, that the husband bade them goodnight, and went to bed ; and soon after,his true stories working compassion in[ jthe weaker vessel.she wept and so did he.Peter being greatly moved at seeingiihis mother in tears, comforted her with|k piece of gold, which gave her an assu¬rance that he deserved the lodging whichilshe afforded him. Shortly after he re-tpred, to bed, but before he lay down heImprudently shewed her the treasurevhich was, girded about his body, still:oncealing who he was, and this indis-:reet act wrought his own utter destruc-ion. But is there a more open guilelessharacter in the world than an honestBritish Tar olf duty ? and who could ex¬end their prudence so far as to entertain' ^W&ffceS' on itcomit of the' disclosure,’fro'm a. Jbving parent ? ’ tThfortiinate;young man, aTasl his suspicions’ werelulled asleep by his fond affections.The blcf woman being tempted by thegolden Bait that she had received, apd^'re'edtly thirsting after the enjoyment blthe rest; she went to her husband, andawaking him, informed him of the dis-' cyvery She hadhiade; at the same-time!dfi the'mbst pathetic "“manner, represent-:i tig their present wretched circiimstancesand at length told him of her Base arfdiabolical intention. Though, with horitd apprehensions, he dfteii refu'sed, ye1her insinuating eloquence' (Eve’s ehichrAntments) moved him at last to consent, and become master of all thiwealth, by murdering the owner thereof:Aftef much consultation, they agree» ito perpetrafb the horrid deed by cuttiri rthroat with a largp carViiig * knil;7i pred die corpse with clothes till opportu-I bity served for their, carrying it away,j j ; :£arly next morning the sister hast-.rimed to her father’s laouse, where, withfeigns of great joy, she inquired for the,ihandsome young sailor that was to lodge,:rdaere last night. The old folhs at: first..mgnied that they h^d ge.ej^ ^py sucli man,tj[3Ut^he tpld them, tie' was. Her long .lqsf}irorother,, which she; knew, assuredly t>yi scar upon, his arm, ciit by a. §\ydrd in>his youth, and that they had, made an •Appointment to meetthere the nexgmor;-,ining and bc^ipcrrA. . :g.f ^ *j The. father hearing this, hastily rapjpp into the room, and finding the markI is his daughter had told him, with hor-1 id regret of this. mopstrous murder . qf,nis own son, and with tfie very knifejf,vherqwith.The killed him, he ctUjhis own5 hroat.> The mother,shortly after weptpip stairs to consult with her husband..I vhat mode of conduct they would pur- ,|me;in order to elude being suspected of:i he attroqpu^ crime, .wh^n i)ie .^ehftid' :fun weltering in his blood y wild andi8-agliast on beliolding the awful spectacle,''and'stung to the heart with remorse, she'seized the fatal instrument of death, stillreekifig with the blood'of her hhsband, (iand instantly ripped up- her own belly jjin such a manner that her entrails11tumbled out.The daughter wondering at their delayijiin returning, went up stairs to learn thereason, which, alas! she tod soon discov- 1ered. To see, at once, a father; a mother,and a brother, butchei ed in so shocking fa “manner, was too much for hu man na- 'ture to bear—quite overcome with hor¬ror and amazement at so bloody scehe, -she sunk down and instantly expired.The names of this unfortunate family :who thus, by sordid views, came to this ;untirhely end, were prudently concealed 1for the sake of preserving their innocentfrelations from ignominy and1 shame.!Peter Brown is the name the1 unfortif-'Hate, youth gave himself when he left;his parents, and was well known by ^many sea-faring men both in Ports- ,mouth and Plymouth; ^ i ■ ::wi