'   ““ ■ 1WITTY AND ENTERTAI NINGEXPLOITSOFWISE WILLIE,.* • \ \ 'ANDWITTY EPPIETHE ALE-WIFEOFbuckhaven:STiRLING:Printed ana Slid by M. Randall.(No. 2.)OF SCOTLAND—THEHIS r O R VOFWISE WILLY and WITTY EPPiE.IN the county of Fife, on the sea-coast, there stands a little town, in-ihabited by tew but fishers, calledI Bucky-harbour, because o ^e i-buck-iies and shells to be found so deatyon tne rocks about that place. Thereis Iii.de mention made of this townI;! by Historians, to know its originalPextraction and antiquities, but in!:l their own Burges-Ticket; which waspartly truth but •more ot it by way;ot lampoon i his Ticket was datedI the t 'O mid thirtieth day of thep month of Julius Caesar. Their Coat1 Of Arms was two hands grippingeach otherTheir Oathover a Scate’s rum pie.tvas, “ I wish th^t de deilmay' tak me, au I binna an houesman to you an ye binna de like tme.” An article of good neighbour¬hood they had, whoever was first upin a good morning, was to raise alHithe rest to go to sea j but if a verybad morning, piss and go to bed a2t:. .*1gam till break of day then raise WisejiWilly, who could judge of: the weather by the blaming of die wind.— jThctr freedon s were, to take all so tsof fish contained in their tickets- vizLobsters, pair tons, podlies, spout-fishsea-cats, sea-ciogs. flocks pikes, dick-puddocks, and p—fish.tl:Again, these people are said to havedecended from one Tom and his twosons who were fishers on the coast o:Norway, wh© in a voilent stoim.|were blown over, and got ashore aBuck-h rbour where they settled ;the whole of his children were cai!e<:Thom-sons, and soon became a little}iown by themselves, as few of any)t''er name dwelt an ong them. TMss a tradition 1 story handed do vnfom one generation to another-—•hey kept but little communication;ith C( untry people about them, forfarmer in those days thought hisdaughter cast away if she marriedrone of the fishers in Buckv-harbjpur ;and, on the other hand, Witty r.ppiethe ale wife war a sworn Be go-laddieI wad rather see my boat and a’ my'three sons dadet against the Bass, orI saw ony aee o’ them married to arxmick-a-byre’s daughter ; a !*heenjraseless tappies, it can do naethingut rive aa a tow rock, and cu: corn -they c. n neither r ait a hook nor radei line, houk sand eels nor gather pir-riwinkles.Now, V/ise Willie and W itty Eppiethe ale wife lived there about a hun¬dred )ears ago: Eppie’s chamberiwas their College and Court-housei where they decided controversies, &e^'^ained their vronders; for thqhou is like a litt’e kirk, had fontj■windo, id a gavel door, the wives ,got leave-to flyte their, fill, but light¬ing -was prohibited, for Eppie said,up hands was fair play. -Their fineswere a pint o’ ale, and Eppie said it ata plack the pint. T hey had neither [minis er nor magistrate, nor yet ahurley-bailey, to brag them wi‘ histolbooth. The Lord o the manor de¬cided all disputable points, and WiseWillie and Witty Eppie were the ru¬lers of the town.Now Eppie had a daughter, theyca’d Lingie-ttaild Nancy, because ofher feckless growth ; her waist waslike a twitter, had nae curpen for acreel, being Edinburgh bred, andbrough up -wi’ her Louden aunty,was learned to read and sew,', madecoarse claiths, and calijcoe mancoes ;there was nae a scholar in the townbut hersel, >- e read the bible, and thebook o’ kirk sangs, that was newly-ifcorae in fashion.. Wlllic'and Eppiei'reU’d thein n.v ^iiat it nieanr, and said 'a* tho I'etters ia it was lifted by myLord for they saw him h ie a featiier! tliit he dipped in black water, and.$ made crooked scorer, just like thesame ; and then he spoke o’er again,and it tell d him what to say.It happened on a day that two oflltheir wives near the town, found amorse "slice, and brought it home andisent for Willie to see what it was,—'fWillie comes and looks at it ; indeed:!co Willie, it’s a thing and holes in t,.-I kent, co’ they, he wad get a nameItilft. - Aha, co’ Willie, whar did ye ■;;get it? Aneatli my Lord’s a’ui housei1,Willie. "Adeed, said Willie, its therauld moon I ken by the holes in’t fornailing it to the lift ; but I winder itIshe fell in Fife, for the last time it f?saw her, she was liingin on her backboon*Edinburgh, A hechco Williee’ll set her upon the highesthouse in 'the town, and we’ll haeV.moonlight o’ our aln a’ the days o'the yean The whole town ran to seethe moon ! Hont tout said Witty Ep-pie, ye’re but a’ fools taegir.her; it’sbut ane o’ the things it my Lord’smare wears unon her lufe.!At another ticne one of the wivesfound a hare with its legs broken ly¬ing among her kail in the yard ; Shenot knowing what it was, cailed outto her neighbours to see it Som£raid it was a Gentleman s eat, or my JLady’s lap-dog, or a sheep’s young^itlen, because it had safe horns; Na,na, cried Wise Willie, it's ane o’ thero auk ins ir gentlemens dogs worries.What will we do wu’t ? Staith, co’they all, we’ll sing the woo aiT, andmake fish and sauce o’t to my Tan -mie’s parrich. Na, na, said WittyEppie, better gie it to niy Lord, andhe il stap an iron stick tlirough thegut's o’t, andgar’t rin round afore thefire till it be roasted.39Ic happened on a dark winter mcr-inhig that two of their wives weregoing to Dysart to sell their fish ; andpn the roadside there happened to hesome tinkers ass tethered. The poorass seein ■, the two wives coming withdheir creels, thought it ^as the tink¬ers coming to flit or relieve him, fella-crying: tho two waves threw theirfish away, and run home like mat!persons, crying they had seen the deil/ay the very horned dei!, an'd that h$jspoke to them, but they did na keniwhat he said, for it was waur than afdighlandman’s j the whole to wn wasn an uproar; some would go withpicks and spades and hag him topieces, ? others wad go and c: .ch himlin a strong net, and then they couldlicit her hang or drown iiim. i\a, na,::co Wise Willie, we mauna cast out wi*ihirn at the first, as ne’s gotten thevtwa burdens o’ fish, he’ll e’en gangiiiis wa’ and no fash us ony mair; heis b er soupie to be cat-ch’d in a net;V your pith will neither hang himU:nor drown him, r.nd the Idntry hecomes frae, is a* het coals, he’d severburn.: We’ll gae til) him in a civilmanner and see what he wants- Get'out Witty t’.ppie and lingle-tail’dNancy wi’ the Bible and Sang-Book,So aff they came in a crowd, either tokill the dcil or catch him alive : andas they came near the place, the assfell a crying, which caused many ofthem to faint and r-un back. _ Na, na,_co’ Willie, that s no the deil s wordsat a’, its my Lord’s trumpeter routingon his. brass whistle. Willie venturedtill Le saw the asses twa lugs. Nowsaid Willie, come forward an handhim fast, I see his wya horns, I fecitsirs, he. has a white beard like anaid man. So they inclosed the poor asson >il] sides, thinking it was.lhe deiibut when Wise Willie saw he had neecloven feet, he cried out, Scania lads,this is nae the deil, it’s some livingbeast; its neither cow nor horse. Anwhat is’t then, co Eppie. Indeed colO'ro;1:1ilWiilie, its the father o’ the mauk ms,I ken by its lang lugs.Now &ome say this history is too[satirical; but it is according to'theknoAvledge of those times, not to- sayone place by another. The old w ives■ will tell you yet of many such stt jriesit/ the devil appearing to their grtj.nd-i fathers and grandmothers, and o-eadwives coming back again to visit d leir; families, long after being dead p Sothis Buckhaven was once noted forIdroll exploits but it is.now beeo neSmore known, and a place now pro-iJduces the hardiest sailors of any to wnon the Scots coast. Yet many of the[old people in it, still retain the 'oldlitincture of their ancient *nd uncaltl-swated speech, such as Be-go laddie;jlthey are also of a fery nature, ior if' jyou ask any of their wives, Whiirefit heir College stands, they 11 tel! you,|»f your nose was in their a , yourfcjmouth would be at the door of it.12No w it happened when Wise Wil¬lie tu rned anld, he took a great swell¬ing ii i his uame, and casting up hiskail, < collops. ahd cauld fish, that no¬thing would stand on his stamoch jand a stout stamoch he had, for crabsheads,, and scate-bree, er brosc in abridal morning; yet it fail’d him,and 1 ic fell sick. None could curehim, nor tell *hrt ail’d him till amotii itebans doctor came to Kirkcal- |dy, d iat could judge by people’s pissthe t rouble of their person. WiseWilli e hearing of his fame, pissed in¬to » bottle, and sent it away withhis Slaughter. The bottle being un-eorkod, his daughter spilt it on theroad, and to conceal her sloth in sodoing, pissed in it herself, and on shegoes till she came to the stags-doctorwhen she cried out aloud, Sir doctor,Sir (ioctor, Sir doctor, here is a bottle »of pny father’s pish, he has a sair gu:&and needs na drite ony, but spueslie eats. It’s true I tell you, my do a.The doctor looks at it then says, it’s13; net ytuv father’s surely it’s your mo-I the’s. The dells in the man said: she, rii'vna I ken my father frae mymither. Then, said he, he is withi child The dell’s in the.man, co’she, for my mither bare a de bairnsbefore, dat’s no true, sir : legs ye’rea great liar. Hame she comes,*andtell’d Willie her father, that the doc-tor said he was \vi bairn. O Waesi me, quo Willie for I hae a mucklewame, an’ I fear it’s o’er true, OI plague on you Janet, for yre’re theI father o’t, an I am sure to die in theq bearing o’t. Witty Eppie was sent>1 for, as she was a heudie ; an she fandi a’ Willie’s wame, to be sure about it.II Indeed co Eppie, ye’re the first man: e’er I saw wi’ bairn afore, an how!jj ye’ll bear it, 1 dinna ken ; but Iji would drink salt-sea water an drown.Jit in my guts : for if men get aricethr gate o’ bearing weans themselves,they 11 seek nae mair wives. So Wil-lie prank salt sea-water till his gutsfl was like to rive, and out he got to eas^11himself among the kail ; and withthe terrible noise ot his farting, upstarts a tnaukon behind him, whichthought it was shot : Willie seeingher jump o’er the dyke, thought itwas a child brought forth, and criesout, come back my. dear and be chris¬ten edf and dinna r»n to the hills tobe a Pagam So .Willie grew betterevery day thereafter, being broughtto bed in the kail- yard; but his'daughter was brought to bed somemonths alter, which was the cause ofthe doctor’s mistake.Now Wise Willie had a daughterca’d Roloughin’ Couching Jenny, be¬cause she spak thick sax words at 3times, half sense and half nonsense^as her own records will be«*r witness.She being with child, was deliveredof a bonny lassie; and all the wivesin the town cried out, Be-go laddie,.its just lik ics ain father,Lang SandyIVson (or Thomson) we ' ken byits iang nose f mr Sandy had a g eat15muckle red nose, like a lobster's tae,bowed at the point like ahawk’s neb,and Sandy himsel said, .that it wassurely his, or some idler livdy’s, but! he had used a’ his birr at the gettings o’t, to try his abilities,-being the firstj| time e’er he was at sic a business be-I fore, and when he had done a’ thati man could do at it. he said it wasi nonsense t and shame fa’ him but he; would rather row ids boat round theI Bass and back again* or he’d do the1 like again, tor wise Willie gatie wtide, at the wean, ^aad saki it had*nnir illi nature than the auldest wife about1 the town ; for it pissed the bed, shitI the bed, spew’d the bed, and skirl’d! like a wild cat, and kept him frae his| night’s rest, and the auld hags abodt| the town, ca’d him Sandy the bairn’s| daddy ; aad a’ the young gilhe-gau-^Ikie lassies held out their fingers, and1 cried, Ti hi hi Sandy, the kirk willSkittle your hips for that: an after aVP tiie blear- eye Vi bell-man came blad-|deiing about the buttock-meal, sum-i dmoned him and her before the halyband, a court that was held in thekirk on Saturday morning: and ajlthe herd laddies sound about criedAy, ay, Sandy pay the bull-sillea orwe 11 cut the cow’s tail awa’. So poorSandy suffered sadly in the flesh, be¬sides the penalty and kirk penance.But Wise Willie had pity on them*and gade wi them to the Kirk-court,what learned folks call the Session.Jenny was first call’d upon, and inshe goes, where a’ the liaiy band vyasconvened, elders and younger dea¬cons, and dog-payers, keeping thedoor, the cankerdest carles that couldbe gotten between Dysart and Duby-side, white heads and bald heads, sit¬ting wantin bonnets, wi their white-headed staves and hodden grey jo»ekey coats about them.Mess John says, Come away Janet,we’re waitimr on ven here.Min. Kow Jinet, where was this! ?)airn gotten ? You must tellus plainlyJan, Adeed sir, it was gotten at thei blaek stanes, at the cheek o’ the crabI holes.Mess J,-hn stares at her, not know¬ing the place but some of the eldersdid. Then said he, O Janet but (hedevil was busy wTith you at that time.Jan. A by my fegs sir, that’s agreat lie ye’re telling now, mightna> We learn t * do the thing married folk; do without the deil helding us.Whisht, whisht, cried they, ye; should be scourged, fause loonqueinit thou is, ye’re speaking nonsense.IS■Jan. De Veil’s i’ the'carles, for ydUand yc a fs arQ;'?iars,-'when yesay'it is dc dei! it was helping Sandyand me to yet de bairn.Come, come, said they, pay downthe Kirk-dues, and come back to thestool the morn ; the price hvfour pundand a groat to the bell-man.- Jan* The auld, thief speed the deartho’t sir, far less might sair you andyom bell man baith. Obut this be a.warld indeed, when poor honest foukrnaun pay for making us^o’ their aina— t Ye mi sc a the poor deil ahinthis back, an gies him de wyte of a’de ill in de kin try, bastard bairns, andevery tiling ; an if it be sae as ye say,ye may thank de diel for that fourpund and.a groat I hae gien yc ; thatgars your pat play brown, an getsye jockey coats, and purl-handed-jsarks, an white headed staves, when19 *my fatliet’s pat wallops np, rouglibear and blue water. ' 'The v oman is mad, said they forthis money is all givr^ to the poor ofthe parkh.Jan. The poor of the parish ! fientlicit ye gie them but wee pic.'les o’I pease meal, didna 1 see’ti’ their pocks,and the minister's vdfe gies naethingava to unco beggars, but bids themgae to their ain parishes : and yet ye’llI tak the purse frae us for naething butV.j playing tits loon a wee or they be mar-| ried, and syne cock them up to be loo-i ked on and laugh’d at by every body :j a dell speed you and your justice .sinrilHutg, tute, ye re a’ coming on mel ike a v/heen col ley dogs hunting awaia poor ragget chapman frae the doo\*.(So out she goes cursing and greedng,I Sandy is next called upon, and in he>;goes.f!".- ''Min. Now Saunders, you must tell.20us how the c hild was gotten ?San. A now Mess John sir, ye haobairns o’ your a in, how did you getthem? but yours are a' laddies, andmine is but aJassie; if you tell me 1how you got your laddies I 11 tell youhow I got my lassie, and then we’llbe baith alike good at the business.The minister loot s at him and saysHute, tute, baunders, lay down four jpund and a groat, and come bac v the imorn to the stool ami give satisfac- |tion to the congregation ; you hadmore need to be seeding repentancefor that abominable sin cf unclean¬ness than speaking o me.San. Well here’s your siller sir, Ihae gotten but poor penny-worths |for t an }e tell me to repent fort;what the avtkl thief needs 1 repent,when I m gaum to marry the womanand then*! hae to did o er again every ■day or there'll be nae peace in thehouse : figs its nonsense to pay sillerrepent and did again too; a fine ad¬vice indeed, master minister ! and !21|:j that’s the way tha like o’ you live.Now sir, says wise Willie, ye man¬na put them on the black creepy tillthey be married, they've suffered e-|j nough at ae time.A-weel, a-weel, said they, but theyii must marry very soon.I true says Sandy, ye’il be wantingmair clink; foul liaet ye do for nae-thing here.Tne next exploit was an action atlaw, against the good man of Muir-| ed^e a farmer who lived near by, thatI; kept sheep and swine. His sheep camet down and broke their yards, and ateI up their kail; the wild hares they| thought belonged to the same man,it as they ran to his house when theyr were hunted The swine came veryii often in about their houses, seekingI fish guts or ony thing they could| get: So it happened when one of theDhildren was sitting easing itself, that| one of the swine tumbled it over, andI Jbit a piece out of its backside! The| whole town rose in an uproar againstpoor gfunkie, as they called her, andtakes her before Wise Willie. Willietook an aX and cut two or three inchesoff her long nose. Now says WillieI trow I hae made thee something,like another beast, thou had sic a langmouth before, it wad a frighted a ve¬ry de il to look at ye, but now ye’refac'd like a little horse ora cow. Thepoor sow ran home roaring, all blood,and wanting the nose ; which causedMuir edge to warn them in before my rimrd. So the wives that had theirkail eaten, appeared first in the court,complaining against Muiredge In¬deed, my Lord, said they Muiredgeis no a good man v» hen he is sic an illneighbour ; he keeps black hares and j.white- hares, little wee brown hacked ihares', wd’ white arses, and louse lag¬ging horns ; they creep in a our gush- >holes and ates our kail, when we cry 5pussie, pussie, they rin hame to Muir- iedge, but I’l! gar my coiley haud them jby the fit, and I’ll haud them by me !horn, and pou the hair aff them, andsend them hame wanting the skin, ashe e id Sewen Tammy’s ee Sandy,fer co sin o’ his pease, he tot k aft thepoor laddie s coat, an safe oid he een.And vV illie said, if you -were a sow myLord, an me sitting dritiag an you tosbite my arse, sudna I hae amends o’lyou for that ? od my I ord ye wadftatae a bit out o your arse for twentynerks : ye maun een gar VUiredgeic ten mcrks to buy a plaster to healifche poor bit ' cans arse again-.! Well said,.Willie, says my Lord jbut who puts on the-sow's nose again.A legs, my Lord, said .Willie,i she’s honester like wentin’t, an she’ll/jipite nae mae arses wi’t An ye hadItiane a nose, my Lord as lang as the?ow had, ye’d.been obliged to ony bo-y it wad cut a piece af’t.A gentleman coming past near theirtown asked one of their wives wheretheir college stood said she, gie me aan I’ll let you See baith sidest. He gives her the shillings think-ng to see something curious. Nowsays she, there’s the one side of youi]shilling, and there's the other; sc it isis mine nowThere was a custom in Buckyhour, when they got a hearty drink]that they went down to dance amongthe boats, two or three of the oldest'went into a boat to see the rest dancejand when they admitted a burgherthere w'as always a dance. One da)they admitted gly*d Rob, who was iwarlock, and made them all stop thei|dancing, for which he was carriedbefore Wise Willie to answer for thajfor woich he was banished to the isHq£ May to carry coals to the LightHous&FINIS.