THEBATTLEOFDRUMCLOG,Fought on the 1st June, 1679.BETWEEN THBKING’S TROOPS,AN y THISCO VENANTERS.By the t-AIUD OF TORFOOT,AN OFFICER IN THE PRESBYTERIAN ARMYGlasgow,—Printew for the Booksellers,jg.. , D (fr U ^   : ! • r-- - ^  NARRATIVE, &c.PPe have received some files of American Papers, to themiddle of A-jgust last. In one of these, the “ Nation¬al Gazette,” we find a Narrative of the Battle ofDrumclo”, which, as our readers will remember, aredescribed in tl'e Novel of Old Mortality. This Nar-i rative is introduced by the following Letter te theI Editors of the National Gazette:—Messrs. Editors,Or r.ll the VTaverlv Kovels “Old Mortality”■rodneed perhaps the greatest sensation iniicoiland. it pleased the light readers. Itws very accept able.to the 'j’ory par tv. Jrreused the attention of the Wh1gs-^-I meanlot the Kadkal*, hut the descendants and Jo-ers of the true “ Whigs of the Covenant.”!t excited a burst of admiration, and a burstf indignation, deep and severe.—Tiie oneon* the for.es, and the mere admirers ofne historical romance—ihe other from theiligious and devout body cf tlie nation.'It was a novel affair, slid it excited the pub-- • Is4Jic feeling to an intense degree, to see venergble clergymen descending into the arena tattack the statements and sentiments of a R<imancer. There was reason tor this. Thsbook was read by every body, and it cpntairthe sentiments of toryism in their most impoing and their most apalling form—and the:is much th*t approaches to a degree of impety which that sober people will not beaISIav, the religious public deemed that thisaw no !-ess than a design to ridicule the mmory of the martyrs and patiiots of the daof Charles II., and to vilify their holy religiojThe description which he has given or' tconduct and motives of the militarychieftiarthe personal accomplishments and the romatic gallantry with which his imagination lbclothed the atrocious Claverhouse, do prothat there is too much.room foi the one; a.;the absurd balderdash and disgusting cswhich he has put into the mouths of the leaing preachers of that age, (and they weremean men,) do altogether show a spirit of hrtility and ptM-secution not to be tamely simitted to in this enlightened age.*♦ The clerical characters who figured in thepresented partial in “ Old Mortality,” were Doug :Cargil, King, Douglas. Douglas had been offered a b•pric, and the seo was kept vacant some time For Inn i.Sharp., Cargil had been the aceoqfiplished and pop'juinister of tbo Barony Kirk of Glasgow. King anThe result cf this public indignation wa*. isibly in favour of the “good old cause.” Ac¬curate engravings of Graham of Clavers wereirought forward. In opposition to the ro-nantic painlings of the novelist, the harsh fea-: ures of his iron face were revealed ; and thetout ensemble’exhibited an exterior in everyespect befitting the gloomy and dark soul ofi man whose hands were dipped in humandood to the wrists !—And in the late adition-il details of his public character, it has beensatisfactorily shown, from the most authenticidcuments, that ‘ the gallant and enterprising'afhcer’ot Hume and of the Tories, was a coldblooded m:»>:erer of the unarmed peasantry;thtft he shot, down, without trial or form of law,free citizens on their laads, and by their ownfire-sides; that he belonged to that licencedbanditti, the oppressors of their country, who‘ employed even the sagacity of blood houndsito discover the lurking places of the patriots,and martyrs,’ whom they butchered in theipresence of their wives and crying babes. 'SeeI.aing’s History of Scotland, voi. ii, and Scot¬tish Worthies, &c., passim.Another consequence of this national ex¬citement was a holy zeal, which put forth its! complished scholar, was the companion of Lord Cardros*• Sir Walter erred egrigiously in putting such disgustingi cant into the lips of such gentlemen, patriots, and mar-I tyra as these!6activities iu repairing the tombs and momi->He;its over the bodies of the martyrs Eachsacred spot, on mountains, in vallies, and ohmoors, where the patriots had fallen by thesteel «f the life-guards, was sought out, andmonuments created, and tomb-stones repairedand a host of ‘ Old Mortalities’ put in requi¬sition to chissel deeper the names and the e-r pilaphs of the martyrs.This is my introduction.—I now offer youthe 4 Battle ofDrumclog.’ And the ‘ Battle ofBoth well shall be forthcoming—that you mayjudge of the contrast between the account ofthese battles in the Waverly romance, and inI history.In his ' Battle ofDrumclog’ the ‘great wiz¬ard’ makes the covenanters’ iftiny murder agallant young officer, who came as the flag.Nothing can be more erroneous and slander-I ous. D is an outrage to history. It is onlysurpassco by that more outrageous fiction oftheir intended murder of young Morton, inthe night after Bothwell battle.The following is giver in the words of theLaird of Torfoot whose estate is this day inthe possession of two brothers', ins linca, de¬scendants oflhe fifth generation. The Lairdspeaks of what he saw and what he did. Ihave carefully compared his account with thestatements handed down by family traditionI —particularly with the statements of a yenei-Vlible aunt, who died lately in Pennsylvania,jaged nearly ninety, and who was'the grand-i daughter of the Laird’s second son. 1 havealso compared the account with the briefprinted accoi*:t ef these battle? in the * Scot¬tish Worthies,’ and the ‘ Cloud of Witnesses.This last book (p. S34, Loud, edit.) recordsthe Laird’s name in the list of those driveninto’banishment; but who, in spite of Claversand Chaises, and shipwrecks, by the grace ofGod, regained his native halls to bless his af¬flicted family, and who finally died in peace,iu the presence of his family, in a good oldage.THE BATTLE OF DBUMCLOG.“ It was on a fair Sabbath morning, 1st■ June, A. D. 1879, that an essemb't- of Cove¬nanters sat down on the heathy mountains ofDrumclog. We had assembled not to fight,but to worship the God of our fathers. Wewere far from the tumults of cities.—Thelong dark heath wared around us; and wedisturbed no living creatures, saving the peesweeps* and the heat»ier-cock. As usual, we* .Vnglee, tee-wit, or lap-wing.8l;ad come armed. It was for self-deferjce^For desperate and ferocious bands madeMoody raids through ilhe country, and pre¬tending to put down treason, they waged waragainst religion and morals. They spreadruin and havoc over the face of bleedingScotland.The venerable Douglas had commencedthe solemnities of the day. He was expati¬ating on the execrable evils of tyranny. Oursouls were on fire at the remembrance of ourcountry’s sufferings and the wrongs of thechurch. In this moment of intense feeling,our watchman posted 'on the neighbouringheight, fired his carabine, and ran toward theCongregation. He announced the approachof the enemy. We raised our eyes to theMinister. ‘ I have done,’ said Douglas, withhis usual firmness —‘ You have got the theo¬ry,—now for the practice; you know your du¬ty ; self-defence is always lawful. But the e-nemy approaches.’ He raised his eyes toheaven and uttered a prayer—brief and em¬phatic—like the prayer of Richard Cameron,I ‘.Lord, spare the green, and takr the ripe.*The officers cohected their men, and placedthemselves each at the head of those of hisown district. Sir Robert Hamilton placedthe foot in the centre, in three ranks A com¬pany of horse, well armed and mounted, wasplaced on the left ■; and a small squadron also9:on the left. These were drawn back, andIthey occupied the more solid ground ; as well(with a view to have a more firm footing, as to;arrest any flanking party that might take them,(®n the wings. A deep morass lay between usland'the ground of the enemy. Our aged men,our females, and children, retired ; but theyretired slowly. They had the hearts and thecourage of the females and children in those{days of intense religious feeling, ana of suffei-iing. They manifested more concern for thej fate of relatives, for the fate of the church,| than for their own personal safely. As Cla-| Vjrhouse descended the opposite mountain,’ they retired to the rising ground in the rear- of our host. The aged men walked with their] bonnets in hand. Their long grey locks wav-| ed in the breeze. They sang a cheering psalm.; The music was that of the well-know tune of• ‘The Martyrs;’and the sentiment breatheddefiance. The music floated down on thewind. Our men gave them three cheers asthey fell into iheir ranks. Never did X wit¬ness such animation in the looks of men. Forme, my spouse and my little children were inthe rear. My native plains, and the halls ofmy father, far below, in tne dale of Aven, werefull in view, from the heights which we occu¬pied. My country seemed to raise her voice-‘-the bleeding church seemed to wail aloud.And tkeso,’ l said, as Clavers and his troopsw inded slowly down the dark mountain’s side,‘these are the unworthy slaves-, and bloodyexecutioners, by which the tyrant completesour miseries.’Hamilton here drsplaj^ed the hero. Hisportly figure was seen hastening from rank torank. He inspired courage into our raw andup disciplined troops. The brave Hackstone,and Hall of Huugh-head, stood at the head<ef the foot, and re-echoed the sentiments oftheir Chief. Burley and Cleland had inflam¬ed the minds of the horsemen on the left to anoble enthusiasm. My small troop on theright needed no exhortation; we were a bandof brothers, resolved to conquer or fall.The trumpof Claverssounded aloud noteof defiance—the kettle drum mixed his tu¬multuous roli—they halted—they made a longpause. We could see an officer with four tilecondubtiug 14 persons from the ranks to aknoll on their left. I could perceive one inbbek : it was my friend King, the chaplain ofLord Cardross, who had been taken prisonerby Clavers at Hamilton, ‘ Let them b» shotthrough the head,’ sa'd Clavers in his usualdry way, • if they should offer to run away.’Y/e couid see him view our position with greatcare. His officers came around him, Wei soon learned that he wished to treat with us.| He never betrayed symptoms of mycy or of! justice, nor offered terms of reconciliation, tm-.11less wfeJn he dreaded he hafl met his match ;and, even, then, it was only manoeuvre, togain time, or to deceive* Mis f|air app.rfiach-ed the edge of the bog. Sir Robert held aflag sacred: had it borne by Clavers hrntseLf,'he had honoured it. He deinanded( t]ie jjur-pase for which he came. ‘1 c/npe,’saiiRljp,‘ in the name of his sacred Maje,st,y,v ^.ud ofColonel Grahame, to offer you a partlnn, oncondition that you lay down your arms, anddeliver up your ring-leaders.’-rr4 'idI-your o-flicer,’ said. Sir Rol>ei't, ‘ thal.we al‘e fully a-ware of the deception he practises. He is notclothed with any powers to Treat, hbr was hesent out to treat with us, and attstupt a-recon¬ciliation. The- Government dgainstwhom wehaw'e risen, refuses to redress oitr grievances,or to restore to us onr liberties. Had the tv-rant wished to render us justice, ‘he. had notsent Hy the hgnris of such a ferociotts'jtssassin.as C!a verhouse. Let him, how'ever, shew Lispowers, and we refuse not to treat; and weshall lay down our arms to treat, provided healso lay down his. Thou hast my answer.’—^‘ R is a perfectly hopeless case.’ said Hurley,while he called after the flag-bearer—‘ Letme add o»e word, by your leave, General.Get theeup to the bloody dragoon, Clavers,and tel! aim that we will spa*-e his life, andthe live: ot his troops, on condition that h<^your Cavers, lay down his arms, and the12*rms of these l,roops- We will do more: aswe have no prisons on these wild mountains,we will even let him go on his parole, on con¬dition that he swear never to lift arms againstthe religion and the liberties of his country.’A loud burst of applause re-echped from theranks; and, after a long pause in deep silence,the army sung the following verses of apsalm:—“ Th^re arrows of the bow he brake;• The shield, the sword, the war,jjore glorious thou than hills of prey,More excellent art far.Those that were stout of heart are spoil’d.They slept their sleep outright; •And none of those their hands did find, iThat were the men of might,” &c.When the report w:.s made to Claverhouse,he gave the word with a savage ferocity.‘Their blood be on their own heads, be ‘ Noquarters’ the word this day.* His fierce dra¬goons raised a veil, and ‘ No quarters’ re-echo¬ed from rank to rank, while they gallopeddown the mountain’s side. It is stated thatBurley was heard to say - Then be it m—evenlet their be ‘ no quarters’—at least in ny wing«f the host So God send a meeting,’ cued healoud, ‘ with that chief under the white jlume.♦This fiict 1 find stated also in the “Scets Wtrthies,E. tdin. edition on of 1812.\ISMy country would bless my memory, couldmy sword give his villainous carcase to thecrows.’Our raw troops beheld with firmness theapproach of the foemen: the whole cf our footchopped on the heath. Not a man was seento remain down, when the order was given torise, and return the fire. The first rank fired,then kneeled down, while the other fired.They made each bullet tell. As often as ihelazy rolling smoke was carried over the ene¬my’s heads, a shower of bullets fell on his ranksMany a gallant man tumbled on the heath.The fire was incessant. It resembled oneblazing sheet of flame, for several minutes, a-long the line of the covenanters. Cl avers at¬tempted to cross the morass, aud break ourcentre. ‘ Spearmen ! to the front,’—1 couhThear the deep-toned voice of Hamilton say—‘ Kneel, and place your spears to receive theenemy’s cu- . -y; and you my gallant fellowsfire—‘ God and our Country’ is our word,’Our officers flew f, on rank to rank. Not apeasant gave way that day. As the smokelolled off, ive could see Claveis urging on h:smen with the violence of despair. His troops •around him, and still the gaps were filled up.A galled trooper would occasionally flinch ;but ere he could turn or flee, the sword of'Ctavers wa* waving over his head. I couldsee him in his fury strike both man and horse.14lu the carnage, he himself sometimesreeled. He would stop short in the midst ofa movement, then contradict his own orders,and strike the man, because he could not com¬prehend his meaning. ’He ordered flanking parties to take us onri^ht and left. ‘ In the name of God/ criedhe, ‘cross the bog, and charge them on theflanks, till we get over the morass. If thisfail we are lost.''It how fell to my lot to come into action.Hitherto we had fired only some distant shot.t gallant officer led his band down to ths.bpr-ders of the swamp, in search of a proper pieceOr cross. We threw ourselves bet n'e, him.A severe'fi’ Vig commenced. I'lv gallant menfired with great steadiness. We could seemany tumbling from their saddles, ^ot con¬tent with icpeHing the flsemen, we found puropportunity to cross, and attack them swordin hai'd. The Captain, whose name I after¬wards ascertained to be Arrbf, th’-ew himselfin my path. In the first shock /discharged,'my pistols. His siidden start on the saddle,told me that one of them had. taken effect.WtiK one pf the tremendous oaths of CharlesII. he closed wittt me. He fired his steel pis¬tol. I was in front of him. — My sword glan¬ced on the weapon, and gave a direction to-the bullet which saved mvlife. Bv this time,my men had driven the enemy before them,15snd had left the ground clear for the sing’ecombat. As he made a lounge at my breast,I turned his sAvord aside, by one of thosesweeping blows Avhich are rather the dictate ota kind of instinct of ^ell-defence, than a move¬ment of art. As owr strokes redoubled, n.yantagonists dark features put on a look ofdeep and settled ferocity. No men who hasnot encountered the steel of bis enemy, in thefield of battle, can conceive the looks and themanner of the warrior, in the moments of in¬tense feelings. May i never witness them a-gain ! — We fought in silence. My stroke fellon his right shoulder; it cut the belt ol'his ca¬rabine which.^11 to the ground. His blowcut me to the rib, glanced along the bone, andrid me afso of the weight of my carabine.He had now advanced too near mg, to bestruck, by the sword, 1 grasped him by thecollar. [ pushed him backwards ; and, withan entangled blow of my Ferrara, I struck himacross his throat. It cut vnly the strap of hishead-piece and it fell off. With a suddenspring he seized me by the sword belt. Ourhorses reared, and we both came to thegreund.Wt rolled on the heath in deadly conflict.It was iu this s’luation of matters, t! at mybrave fellows had returned from the rout ofthe flanking party, to look after their com¬mander. One of thf in was actual.y rushingon my antagonist when I called on him to re-f.,' • • -Wk . C ■' • 1 ■- V*! •• " ■16lire.* We. started to our feet: Each grasp¬ed his sworch We dosed in conflict again.After parrying strokes of mine ency»iy whichindicated a hellish ferocity, I told him my ob¬ject w s to take him prisoner; that soonerthan kill him, 1 should order my men to seizehim. ‘Sooner let my souJ be brandered onmy ribs in hell,’ said he, ‘then be captuuedby a Whigamore. ‘ No quarters’is ;he wordof my Colonel, and my word. Have at theeWhig—I dare the whole of you to the com¬bat.’ ‘ Leave the madman to me—leave thefield instantly,’ said I to my party, whom Icould hardly restrain. My sWord fell on hisright-shoulder. His sword dropped lyom hishand. I lowered my sword, and offered himhis life. ‘ No quarters,’ said he, with a shriekof despair. He snatch’d his sword, which Iheld in my hand, and made a lounge at mybreast. I parried his blows till he was*nearlyexhausted ; but gattfering up his huge limbs,he put forth all las energy in a thrust at myheart. My Andro Ferara received it, so asto weaken its deadly force; but it made a deepcut. Though I was faint, with lose yi? blood,I left him no time for another blow. Mysword glanced on his shoulder, cut through* It was on this occasion that the Laird used thesewords—“ Bauidy Allison ! let your officer settle this tri¬fle— l never took odds to combat a foe, be he even a lifeguard.17his buff coat, skin, and fleshy swept throughhis jaw and laid openhis threat.from ear to ear.The fire of his lerocions eye was quenched ina moment. He reeled, and falling with a ter¬rible crash, lie poured out his soul, with a tor¬rent ©f blood, on the heath. I sunk down in¬sensible foaa moment. My faithful men, whe¬never lost sight of me, raised me up.—In tlit:fierce combat the soldier suffers most fromthirst. I -stooped down, to fill n.y helmetwith the water which oozed through the mor¬ass. It was deeply tinged with human blood,which flowed in the conflict above n:e. J start¬ed back with horror: and Gawn Witherspoonbringing up my steed, *ve set forward in thetumult ol battle.All this while, tlrj storm of war had ragedon our left, Cleland and tjie fierce Bn'■leybad charged the strong company sent to flankthem. These officers permuted them to crossthe swamp, then charged them with a terribleshout ‘No (juarter’cried the diftgaons. *13e‘no quarter, to you then, ye murderous loons,’cried Burlev ; and at one blow he cut the lead¬er through the steel-cap, and scattered hisbrains on his followers. His every blow o-verthrew afoeman. Their whole forces werenow brought up, and they drove the dragoonsof Clavers into the swamp. They rolled o-Ter each oilier. All stuck fast. The Cove-18Ranters dismonnted and fouglit on foot. Tfeeyleft not one man to bear the tidings to their©oJonel.The firing of the platoons had long agoceased, and the. dreadful work was carried onby the sword. At this moment, a trumpetwas heard in the rear of our army. Tnerew as an awful pause; all looked up. It wasonly the gallant Captain Nesbit,a;id Ins guide,Woodburn of Mains; he had no reinforce¬ment for us, but himself was a host With aloud huzza, and flourish of his sword, he pla¬ced himself by the side of Burlev, and cried,“ .rump the ditch, and charge the enemy.”H e and Burley struggled through the marsh.The men followed as they could. Theyformed, and marched on the enemy’s rightflank.At this instant, Hamilton and Hackstonebrought forward (he whole line of infantry ini’rwnt, “ God and our country” re-echoedfrom ill the ranks. %i No quarters,” saidthe fioice squadrons of Clavers.—Here com¬menced a bloody scene.I seized the opportunity this moment-offer¬ed to me of making a movement to the left ofthe enemy to save my friend King and theother prisoners. We came in time to savarhem. Oar swords speedily severed the19ropes wliinh tyranny had bound on tbo armsof the men. The weapons of the fallen foesupplied what lacking of arms; and witligreat vigour we moved forward to charge theenemy on the left flank, Clavei house formeda hollow square—hiftself in the centre ; hismen fought gallantly, they did all that sold'/rscould do in their situation. Wherever a gapwas made Clovers thurat his men forward,and speedily filled it up. Three times he rel¬ief headlong on the heath, as he hastenedfrom rank to rank, and as often he remountedMy little band thinned his ranks. He paidus a visit. Here I distinctly saw the featur esand shape of this far-famed man. He wassmall of stature, and not well formed; hisarms were long in proportion to his legs; hehad a complexion unusaily dark ; his featureswere not lighted up with spiightiiaess, assome fabulously report'd, they seemed gloo¬my as hell; iris cheeks aero lank and deeplyfurrowed ; his eye-brows were drawn down,and gathered into a kind of knot at theirjunctions, and thrown up at their extremities,they had, in short, the strong impression giv¬er. by our painters to those on the* face of Ju¬das Iscariot; his eyes we:*r hollow; they hadnot the lustre of genius, nor ‘..he fire of vivaci¬ty ; they were lighted up by that dark fire ofwrath which is kindled and famed by an in-20 «ternal anxiety, and consciousness of crimina-deeds; his irregular and large teeth were pre¬sented through a smile, which was very un¬natural on his set offeatures: his mouth seem¬ed to be unusually large, from the extremi¬ties being drawn backward and downward—as if in the intense application to somethingcruel and disgusting; in short, his upper teethprojecten over his under lip, and, on the wholepresented to my view the mouth on the imageof Julian the Apostate—In one of his rapidcourses past us, my sword could only shearoff his white plume and a fragment of his buffcoat. In a moment he was at the other sideof his square. Our officers eagerly sought ameeting with them. ‘He has the proof oflead, cried some of our men—‘Take the coldsteel or a piece of silver.’ ‘ No,’ cried Burley,‘ It is his rapid movement on that fine char¬ger that bids defiance to any thing like an aimin the tumult of the bloody fray. 1 cou'.l soon¬er shoot ton heathercocks on the wing, thanone flying Clovers'.’ At that moment, Bur¬ley, whose eye. watched his antagonist intothe hollow square. But Burley was too im¬patient. His blow wras levelled at him beforehe came within his reach. His heavy sworddescended on the head of Ciavers’ horse, andfelled him to the ground.—Burley’s men rush¬ed pell-mell on the fallen Clovers, but hist21faithful dragoons threw tehmselves upon them(and by their overpowering force drove Bur*ley back. Clavers was, in an instant, on afresh steed. His bugleman recalled the par¬ty who were diiving back the flanking pan*'of Burley. He collected his whole troops tomake his last and desperate attack.—He char¬ged our.infantry with such force, that they be¬gan to reel. It was only for a moment. Thegallant Hamilton snatched Uie white flag ofthe Covenant, and placed hiimelfin the fore¬front of the battle. Our menjshouted ‘ Godand our Country,’ and rallied under their flag.They fought like heroes. Clavers fought noless bravely. His blows were aimed at ourofficers. His steel fell on the helmet cf Heck-stone, whose sword was entangled in the bodyof a fierce dragoon who had just wounded him.He was borne by his men into the rear. Idirected my men rn Ciavers. ‘Victory atdeath,’ wras their reply to me. Clavers receiv¬ed us. He struck a desparate blow at me, aslie raised himself, with all his force, in the sad¬dle. My steel cap resisted it. The secondstroke I received on my Ferrara, and his steelwas shivered to pieces. V/e rushed headlongon each otherc His pistol missed fire—it hadbeen soaked in blood. Mine took effect.But the wound was not deadly. Our horsesreared. We rolled on the gronnd. In vain•nwe sought to grasp each other. In the mele,men, and horse tu;nl. led on us. We were forv few moraents.buried, our men whose eager¬ness to save their respective officers broughtthem in multitudes clown upon us. By ther.kJ of my faithful man Gawn, 1 extricated my¬self from my fallen horse; c:id we were rush¬ing on the bloody Clavers, when we were a-gain literally buried finder a mass: of men ; forHamilton had by this time brought up hiswhole line, and he had planted his standardwhere we and Clavers were rolling on theheath. Our men gave three cheers, and drovein the troops of Clavers. Here I was bornealong with the moving mass of men 5 and, al¬most suffocated, and faiut with the loss of bloodI knew nothing more till I opened my eyeson my faithful attendant. Jig had draggedme from the very grasp of the enemy, and had ‘Iforne me into the rear, and was bathing mytemples with waver. We speedily regainedour friends; and what a spectacle presenteditself! It seemed tha». i beheld an immensemoving mass heaped up together ii> the great¬est confusion. Some shrieked, some groan¬ed. some shouted, horses weighed and pranc-ed, swords rung on the steel helmets. I plac¬ed around me a few of my hardy men, and we .rushed into the thickest of the enemy in searchof Ciavers; but in vain. At that instant his :23trumpet sounded the loud notes of retreat;and we saw on a knoll Olivers borne awayby his men. He threw himsell on a horse,and without sword, without helmet, he fledin the first ranks of the retreating host, llistroops galloped up the hill in the utmost con¬fusion. My little line closed with that of Bur¬ley’s and took a number ol prisoners. Ourmain body pursued the enemy two miles andstrewed the ground with men and horses. Icould see the bareheaded Clavers in front ofhis men, kicking and struggling up the steepsides of Calderhill. He halted only a mo¬ment on the top to look behind him, thenplunged his rowels into his iiorse, and dartedforward; nor did he recover from Ids panictill he found himself in the city el Glasgow.”“ And, my children, the Laird would say,< after he jiad told the adventures of this Wloo-l dy day. “ 1 visited the field of battle nexttl day ; 1 shall never forget the sight. Men andi horses lay in their gory beds. I tupred a wavi from the horrible spectacle. I passed by the■| spot where God saved tny Ide In the singlecombat, and where the unhappy Captain Ar¬il tol fell. I observed that ai the subsequentI fray, the body had been trampled on by a■ horse, i'i:d his bowels were poured out.** ] find tliis fact recorded in Crookshafik’s History|vel. l.cliap. 13. But the Author does not well!ion thisof the Laird bv *rhoia Arroll’eli.02*Thus, my children, the defence of our lives,and the regaining of our liberty, and religion,has subjected us to severe trials. And hovrgreat must be the love ol liberty, when it car¬ries men forward, uuder the impulse, of self-defence, to witness the most diEgu.sting spec-;taclfes, and to escounter the most cruel hard¬ships of war !”e;V ' 1FINIS.♦■a\'