THELIFE AND EXPLOITSOFROB ROY M'GREGOR,The Highland Freebooter.“ The eagle he vras lord above,But Rob was lord below.”WOODSWORTH.FALKIRK:PRINTBD FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,3HTZTIOJTAZ (jZA 3^LI.aooaiio'if yon mm I•isicot' ■an'I • . sjfT,•>71.da biol erw sd 3 so ^r!T *!.iiTHoweac .w.2flSJJ38XOOa 3HT HOV U»TK?niLIFE OFISO SS KOYROBERT M GREGOR. or ROB ROY,was second son of Donald M‘Gregor,t>f the family of Glengyle, a LieutenantColonel in the kin<;s service, by a daughterbf Campbell of Glenlyon. Our hero wasdenominated Roy, a Cell it: or Gaelicmhrase, significant of his ruddy com¬plexion ami colour of hair.Rob Roy's family were very respect¬able. His father was the friend and allybf Regent Murray, and biought to hisassistance 300 M‘Gregors, in an expedi-oion to quell an insurrection of the Mac-iPhersons in the north ; for which serviceiMurray granted him a lease of a farm,ivhich still remains in the possession of theamily.The education which Rob Roy received4was suficient foi the sphere of life he wasdestined to occupy. In his early years,it would have required very uncommonpenetration to discover those indicationsof seg-acity and prudence which he after¬wards exhibited. In youth he evincedstrong natural parts, and soon excelled hiscompeers in the rude accomplishments ofthe age. He was active, bold, and pos¬sessed of great bodily powers; he has beenknown to seize a deer by the horns, andhold him fast. In the use of the broadsword, few could equal him. But al¬though his frame was so singularly robust,and his disposition daring and resolute,yet his manners were polite, his addressinsinuating-, his faculties acute, his con¬clusions prompt, and his resolution deter¬mined.In his youth, he studied the ancienthistory, and recited the impressive poe¬try of his country; and these were emi¬nently calculated to inspire sentiments that ,cherished a warlike and enterprising spirit.Rob, in his boyhood, delighted in thereveries of a romantic imagination, con¬templating the sublime grandeur of hisnative vvdds.—“ The rocky mountain, iwhose summits were often hid in the:clouds that floated around them; the darkvalley, encircled by woody eminences5; the bold promontory, opposed to the foam-ling ocean, and sometimes adorned by thei castle of a chieftain ; the still bosom of thelake, that reflected the surrounding land¬scape ; the impetuous mountain cataract;. and the dreary silence of the cavern,'*i were objects that influenced his youthfulfeelings, disposing his mind to the culti¬vation of generous and manly sentiments.rjThese impressions were never after eradi¬cated. They continued to bias his tem-iper, and to give it a cast of romantic chi¬valry, which he exemplified in many of hisi future actions.IRob Roy being now determined to fol¬low the quiet avocations of a rural life,irented a tract of grazing land at Balquhid-Ider, and for seveial years, pursued a quietand inoffensive course. But his cattlewere often stolen, along with those of his!neighbours, by hordes of banditti fromthe northern shires, who wasted the coun¬try. In order to protect himself fromthese marauders, he was constrained tomaintain a select party of men ; and tothis cause rnay partly be attributed thewarlike habits which he afterwards ac¬quired.A considerable number of Macras, from!the western part of Ross, having commit¬ted an outrage on the property of a neigh-6bour, and carried off fifteen head of ca'ttle,an express was sent to Rob, informing himof the circumstance. Beinj; the first callof the kind he had rec fived since he becamethe protector of the vicinity, he summoneda dozen of his men, and followed the plun¬derers. Two days and a night he travel¬led, without obtaining any other informa¬tion as to the track, than at times seeingthe impression of the cattle’s feet on theground. The second night, being fa¬tigued, the party lay down in a glen, nearthe march of Badenoch. They had notrested long, when a fire was discovered ata little distance. They instantly set for¬ward to reconnoitre, when they found itwas a band of jolly tinkers carousing neartheir tent. Their mirth, however, wassoon interrupted, when they beheld RobRoy and his party. The tinkers informedhim they had seen the Macras, who wereat but a little distance; and two of the tink¬ers agreed to conduct the party to the spot.The freebooters had halted, foi the se- ,curity of their spoil, in a narrow part ofthe glen, when the M‘Gregors overtookthem, as they were setting out in themorning. Rob, with a loud and terrificvoice, which resounded amoung the craggyacclivities, charged them to stop; but asthey disregarded the order, he rushed upon2/7i them with such fury, that six of their. number lay prostrate on the ground.—The rest made a stout resistance, but wereosoon overcome; two being killed, and five» wounded, they gave up the contest. Fourof Roy’s lads were severely wounded, andhimself received a cut on the left arm fromithe captain of the banditti. The bootyIthus recovered, was driven back, and re-istored to the rightful owner. Rob receiv¬ed great praise for this exploit; and manyoffered to contribute their donation of‘ bl ack mail.’ This circumstance, no doubt!tended to arouse the latent activity andcourage of his mind.The executive government not onlyusanctioned but enforced the exaction of;lj‘ black mailanal all constables were com¬manded to see ‘ this order put into execu-lition, as they shall answer to the contrair,*SRob Roy’s exaction of this tax was notintherefore an unauthorized robbery, butsanctioned by custom and local institution.For some time too he was employed in as¬sisting the officers of the neighbouring dis¬tricts, in collecting imposts for maintain-ning the ‘ Black Watch,’ a corpse of mili¬tia raised to protect the lives and propertyjbf the people, from marauding plunderers.! This corps, from the celebrity they acquir-*ed, afterwards became regular troops, and8were the origin of the gallant 42d regimentlong known by the nnme of the ‘HighlandWatch/Rob Roy's birth, as a gentleman, andhis respectable connections, when he at¬tained to manhood, procured him accessto the first families, and admission into thebest company in the country. He formeda matrimonial engagement with a daugh¬ter of M‘Gregor of Comar, a woman ofan agreeable temper and domestic habits,active and economical in the managementof her family. But she took no part inthe predatory concerns of her husband,except on one occasion, afterwards men¬tioned.Rob was not possessed of any patrimo¬nial pioperty, but became master of theestate of Crai^croston, in the followingmanner,—‘When M‘Gregor of M Gregor,was driven from his possessions in Glen-orchy, by the Campbell’s, he bought theLands of Inversnait and Craigcrostan, thenof small value, though of considerableboundaries, extending from the head of !Loch Lomond, twelve miles along its eas¬tern border, and stretching far into theinterior of the country, and partly around ['the base of stupendous Ben Lomond. Onthe death of his chief, in 1693. he left his 'property to a natural brother, who was I9laird of Kilmannan. This person was suc¬ceeded by a son, who courted a daughterof the laird of Leny but Rob Roy, fromwhat cause is not known, raised suspicionsagainst him in the mind of the young lady,who in consequence rejected her lover.—He then paid his addresses to a daughterof Colquhoun of Luss, and their marriage:day was fixed, when Rob again interfered,and Miss Colquhoun also refused to fulfilher engagement. Enraged at such treat¬ment, the young chieftain went to Falkirk,where he married a woman of mean ex-Itraction, which so displeased his friends,Ithattheyno longer regarded him as their“connexion. By this treatment, the youngriman was so disgusted with his clan, thatthe gave up his estate to Rob Roy, anddeaving his country, was never moreiheard of.Rob Roy devoted himself to the avoca-ition of a graizer'; and as //ighland cattle! about this time began to be in great re¬quest in England, Rob made frequentojourneys for carrying on this traffic. WhentM'Gregor was fairly settled, and tacitlyconfirmed, as laird of Craigcroston, his(friendship became valuable, and was soli¬cited by his wealthy neighbours. Ai thisitime the policital vaiiance between thee-families of Montrose and Argyle had grown10into personal enmity; this induced each ofthem to court the favour of Rob Roy,whose personal prowess, and daring spirit,rendered him a desirable auxiliary, or aformidable enemy.Montrose, to gain the confidence, andsecure the friendship of M'Gregor, madea proposal tj enter into copartnery withhim in the trade of cattle-dealing, a planin which he readily acquiesced. Montroseaccordingly advanced Itob 1000 merks,(about 501. Sterling) who was also ex¬pected to lay out a similar sum, and theprofits were to be divided. Argyle alsolaboured to form an alliance with Rob,hoping that, from Ids resolute bravery,and local situation, he would be a sourceof constant annoyance to Montrose. Be¬sides, he might suppose that Rob Roy hadevinced a friendly disposition by assumingthe name of Campbell, that of M‘Gregorbeing under proscription. But thoughRob had chosen this name in complimentto his mother, and in compliance with thelaw, he was acknowledged in the country,and by his clan, under no other name thanthat of M'Gregor. He therefore spurned (the overtures of ^frgyle with indignation.Rob Roy, in carrying on business withthe Marquis of Montrose, was the activemanager. But a M‘Donald, an inferior11partner, on one occasion was intrustedfwith a lar«-e sura of money, with which hei||made off. This greatly deranged Rob’s{affairs, and he was unable either to payMontrose his money, or to support hisown credit. Montrose acted with uncom¬mon severity and harshness: he dissolvedthe copartnery, and insisted that Robshould transfer his property in security ofthe claims he preferred. This proposition; was firmly rejected: nor could the threatsliof Montrose’s factor alter his purpose. Alawsuit was entered against Rob, and heiwas ultimately compelled to give up hislands in Mortgage to Montrose, under con¬dition that they should again revert to him-; self when he could pay the debt.SRob Roy was extremely indignant atthe ungenerous conduct of Montrose.—However, his mind was too strong to be(weakened by misfortune; he redoubleduhis exertions, and was soon able to tenderthe sum for which his estate was held.—-!! But Montrose refused to deliver up hisuproperty, pretending the amount hadjgreatly increased, and that it would take ar.considerable time to make out the state-Wment. In this equivocal manner the Mar-(quis’s factor endeavoured to evade the law¬ful claims of an injured man. Just at thistime the revolution took place, and many« 1of the chieftains were arraying their fol¬lowers to be in readiness for acting in fav¬our of the house of Stewart, ^rgyle at¬tached himself to the Prince of Orange;but not having been restored to hie pro¬perty, since the attainder and judicial mur¬der of his father, he was hesitating in hissentiment ; and, aware that Rob, in theevent of a war, would be a valuable aux¬iliary, he renewed his overtures to him,and warmly solicited his assistance.The suspicious Monti ose soon discover¬ed that a correspondence had commencedbetween M‘Gregor and yfrgyle ; and, eagerfor the destruction of a family that hadrivalled him in greatness, he wrote a letterto Rob Roy, in which he promised, thatif he would go to Edinburgh, and givesuch information as would convict Aigy\eof treasonable practices, he would bothwithdraw the mortgage upon his property,and give him a large sum of money. RobRoy received this infamous proposal withthe lofty contempt and proud scorn of aM‘Gregor,* and without deigning to re-.'t ** A chieftain of the M'Gregors, residing onhis freehold in G'enorchy, had a son who hadgone in the shooting season, with a party ofyoung associates, to the moors. They met witha young gentleman, of the name of Lament, fromCowel, who, attended by a servant, was goingIpi.13turn an answer, forwarded it to Argyle,who soon took occasion to confront Mon-to Fort William. They all went to a public-house that was in the place, and took a refresh¬ment together; in the course of which, a triflingdispute arose between Lamont and young Mac¬Gregor. Dirks were drawn, and before friendscould interfere, M Gregor fell mortally wound¬ed. In the confusion Lamont escaped, and gotsecurely to the house of M'Gregor, which hap-i ipened to be the first habitation that met his eyoit the dawn of morning. The chieftain was up,> und standing at the door “Save my life,” saiduhe stranger, “for men are in pursuit of me to; take it away.”—“whoever you are,” says M‘Gre-i gor, “ here you are safe.”Lamont was but just brought in, and introduc-ted to the family, when a loud demand was madeat the door, if a stranger had entered the house.1 “ He has,’’ says M Gregor, “and what is yourbusiness with him ?” “ In a scuffle,” cried thepursuers, “he has killed your son; deliver him|up, that we may instantly revenge the deed.”—SM‘Gregor’s lady, with his two daughters, filled theihouse with their cries and lamentations. “ Bejquiet,” says the chief, with the tears streaming(••from his eyes, “ and let no man presume to touch:tthe youth—for he has M'Gregor’s word and hon¬our for his safety; and as God lives, he shall be1 safe and secure whilst in my house.”In a little, the chieftain accompanied Lamont,iwith twelve men, under arms, to Inverary, andulanded him in safety on the other side of Loch-t fine, then took him by the hand, and thus ad-Htrose, with a charge of malevolence. ButRob suffered severely for this noble act,for Montrose, in revenge, procured an ad¬judication of his estate, ami it was evictedfor a sum very inadequate to its value.During this transaction, Rob Roy wasin England on business, and the expul¬sion of his family was conducted hy Gra¬ham of Killearn, under circumstances ofthe utmost indignity and barbarity. WhenM‘Gregor returned, and beheld his desti¬tute family, his soul was filled with rage,and he determined to take revenue on thedressed him:—‘Lamont, now you are safe:—nolonger can I, or will I protect you: keep out of theway of my clan—May God torgive and bless you.'This happened some time before the act of proscrip¬tion against the clan Gregor, in 16SS, when, to thediscredit of justice, a weak government sacrificed awhole people for the enormities of a few, M'Gregorlost his property, and was hunted for his life, in con¬sequence ot this iniquitous act. He took shelter in jthe house of this very Lamont—noted for his urbanity,and his deep contrition for the misfortune of hisyounger years; and who, by every act of kindness tohis venerable guest and some branches of his family, .revered the providence which put it in his power torepay to the lamily of his benefactor in some measure,the loss he had occasioned them in the death of a son. ,15authors of his misfortunes. His first actiof hostility against Montrose was at a term,i when he knew the tenantry of that noble-iman were to pay their rents. He and hisimen called upon them, and obliged themto give him the money, for which, how¬ever he granted them acknowledgements,‘ that it was received on account of Mon¬trose.’In this compulsitory manner he leviedthe rents from the tenants for severalyears; and Montrose, conscious, perhaps,that he had taken undue advantage of RobRoy, seemed to overlook the matter untila subsequent occasion, when the factor wascollecting his rents at Chapellaroch in Stir¬lingshire. Rob Roy had given out somedays before by proclamation at the churchidoor, that he had gone to Ireland ; and!the factor subsequently concluded that hewould meet with no interruption in hisduty. Towards evening, however, RobRoy placed his men in a wood in theneighbourhood, and went himself, withhis piper playing before him,, to the innof Chapellaroch, where Killearn was, at¬tended by several gentlemen of the vicini¬ty, y/larmed at the sound of the pipes,they started up to discover from whenceit proceeded ; and Killearn, in great con-f sternation, beheld Rob Roy approachingi the door.16He had finished his collection, but thebags were hastily thrown for concealmenton a shelf, Rob Roy, entered with theusual salutation, and the factor at first hadno suspicion of his finale purpose, as he laiddown his sword, and partook of the en¬tertainment; after which, he desired hispiper to strike up a tune. This was a sig¬nal to h’s men, who in a few minutes sur¬rounded the house, and six of them en¬tered the room with drawn swords. RobRoy, laying hold of his sword, as if aboutto po away, asked the factor, • How hehad come on with his collection ?* ‘ 1 havegot nothin"-/ said Killearn, ‘I have notyet begun to collect/ 4 No no, chamber-lain/ replied Rob, ‘your falsehood willnot do with me, I must count fairly withyou by the book/ Resistance being useless,the book was exhibited, and according toit, the money was given up, for which RobRoy granted a receipt.lint from the infamous treatment hisfamily had received from Killearn, RobRoy was resolved to punish him, and hadhim immediately conveyed to an islandnear the east end of Loch Ketturin, nowrendered famous as the supposed residenceof fair Ellen, the l,ady of the Lake.In this island Killearn was confined fora considerable time; and, when set at17liberty, received from Rob a prudent ad¬monition as to ins future conduct.Rob Roy was always the friend andiprotector of the weak and oppressed.—tThe disorders which prevailed in the na-ition during the reign of Charles II. becamei still more dreadful on the accession of h>sbrother James, whose bigotry permittedjithe most odious (rimes, and authorizedIsuch cruelty as the mind shudders to con-i template. //t these scenes of hoiror, Rob1 had often been present, whose soul burnedwith indignation at their wickedness, re¬gretting that he was not vigorous enough'to crush the bands of human wretchesi who executed the bloody commands of theking. /ffter he had been expelled fromhis estate he went to Carlisle, to recovera sum of money due to him. Returning, by Moffat, he fell in with a party of sol¬id iers hanging font peasants, whom theyi called fanatics. A young woman, who wasialso bound to the same tree, bewailed theufate of her father and brother, two ofi those who suffered. The deadly work be¬ing completed, four of the soldiers seizednthe young woman, tied her hands and feet,rand were carrying her towards the river(to drown her, regardless other tears andentreaties to save her. Our hero’s heartibeing wrung with sympathy, and shocked18at such cruelty, ordere 1 the perpetratorsto stop, and demanded ‘ why they treateda helpless female with such barbarity?’—The officer ordered him to ‘begone, other¬wise he would experiei ce the same treat¬ment, for daring to interrupt the king’sinstructions.* The miscreants were justabout to toss the girl in the stream over aprecipice. Rob became frantic with rage,sprung upon the soldiers, and in an instanteight of them were struggling in the pool.The officer and the remaining ten menwere confounded and stood motionless.In this pause Rob cut the cords that boundthe girl; and killed tlie officer atone stroke.The soldiers attacked him, but he killedtwo of them, ami the rest fled to the town,leaving him master of the field, to the un¬speakable joy of the young- woman, andthe great delight of the peasantry whostood around.Our hero now devoted himself to mili¬tary pursuits. He selected a body of menno less resolute than himself. These boldM‘Gregors entered into a bond of union;which no hardship could tear assunder, nocontention overcome; while the masterlydiscipline, established by Rob, renderedthem the terror of surrounding counties.They mutually recited the wrongs of theirclan, ami renewed the determination of19taking a proper revenge. While the war¬like music of the pipes animated theirspirits, and inspired them with a courageklmost irresistible.The government now watched the mo-iions of the Highland chief's zeilh a jealousjye, and thus they were obliged to com¬municate their sentiments respecting theexiled house of Stewart in the most secretind clandestine manner. Their opinionsi; vere unanimous, and a bond of faith andnutual support was signed. By the negli¬gence of a chieftain to whom the bond was: ntrusted, it fell into the hands of Captaini.Villiam Campbell of Glenlyon. When itIlyas known that a man of such inhumanfeelings held this bond, those who signedt were seriously alarmed, and various planswere suggested for recovering it. Robloy, with the clans, had also affixed hisame; but on his own account he regard-d neither the king nor his government,e was however, urged by several chiefso exert himself, and, if possible, to recov-r the bond. To accomplish this, he wentPort William in disguise; and getting3 ccess to Captain Campbell, who was his:iJear relation, he discovered that he hadt ut the bond into the possession of theovernor, who was determined to forwardIt to the Privy Council. Rob learned the2;20day on which it was to be sent off; tookleave and went home. The dispatch wasmade up by Governor Hill, and sent fromFort William, escorted by an ensign’s com¬pany. On the third day’s march, Roband fifty of his men met the party at Glen-dochart, and demanded their dispatches.The officer refused ; but was told by Rob,that he must either give their lives and thedespatchestoo'ether, or thedespatches alone,The despatches were given up : and Rob,having taken out the bond he wanted, beg¬ged the officer would excuse the delay hehad occasioned, and wished him a good;journey. By this bold exploit, many chiefssaved their heads, and forfeiture of theirestates.The spirit of clanship, the dignity as¬sumed by great chieftains, and the pro¬found submission of their vassals, oftenproduced the most iniquitous actions.—Against such acts of violence, though over¬looked by the government, Rob Roy M‘-Gregor manfully and opei ly drew hissword.On the estate of Perth, a clansman ofRob Roy’s occupied a farm on lease ; butthe factor took occasion to break it, andthe tenant was ordered to remove. Rob,hearing the story, went to Drummond Cas¬tle. On his arrival the first person he met212/was Blairdrummond, the factor, whom heKnocked down, without uttering a word,ind walked on to the gate. Perth, wholaw this from a window, came out and$ave him a cordial welcome-—‘ Perth, Iwant no show of hospitality ; I insist only:.o get back the tack of which my name-! sake has been deprived, otherwise I will:iet loose my legions on your property.’—: Perth w'as obliged to comply. 1 he leasewas restored, and Rob sat down androreakfasted with EarlGraham of Killearn was factor on theestate of Montrose, and second cousin tothat nobleman. Being in the constantpractice of distressing those tenants whowere in arrear, he was despised in thecountry. He had once sequestiated thedgeods and cattle of a poor widow for ar¬rears of rent; when Rob heard of t/>e cru-tjelty, he went to her, ami gave her the(jpOO merks she owed, at the same time desir-'iing her, when she paid it, to get a receipt.COn the legal day, the officers appeared ati|the widow’s house to take away her edicts.IjShe paid their demand; but Rob metIthem; made them surrender their moneysIthey had extorted; gave them a goodtjdrubbing, and an advice never again toact in the same manner.Sometimes the rich procured a mort-<22gage bond upon the property of hit needyneighbour j and this was generally turnedinto an authority to seize their lands byforce. Glengyle was under a bond of this;kind, when Rob Roy’s nephew succeededto it. Rob knowing what advantagewould be taken of the contract, gave hisnephew the money, for the purpose of re¬trieving the bond. The period of re¬demption had only a few months to run;,and. under pretence that the bond couldnot be found, the money was refused.—Rob Roy at this time having been other¬wise engaged, the matter lay over, andthe bond was allowed to expire; whenyoung M‘Gregor was ordered to removehimself, his dependants, and cattle, ineight days. Rob Roy could not suffersuch treatment; and assembling his gillies,took the chieftain prisoner, who, know¬ing Rob’s disposition, agreed to give upthe bond when he got home. Rob, put¬ting no confidence in his promise, com¬pelled him to send for it, and give it upto him presently.The incursions of our hero inducedMontrose to apply to the Privy Councilfor protection ; and obtained an act whichwas expressed in terms—‘to repress scorn-ers, robbers, and broken men. to raise hueand cry after them, to recover the goodsstolen, and to seize their persons.*2S'J'his decree, though despised by Rob,Jnade him more watchful of his foes.—But Montrose, under authority of the act>f Council, called out a number of his peo-de, headed by a confidential Graham, anditccompanied by some military, sent themo lay hold of Rob Roy ; he chanced toe absent when the Grahams assailed hisouse during the night. Having learnedhat Rob and his men were at a public-louse in Strathfillan. lie in the house, andhey in an adjoining barn. The Grahamsmmediately broke open the door. Rob|ijvas instantly accoutred to meet them, andlevelled them man by man as they ap¬proached,- until his own lads, roused byifhe noise, attacked the Grahams in theear, with such determination, that theyetreated, leaving behind them several ofheir party sorely wounded ; but Rob,aving refreshed his men with a glass ofhisky, ascended the hill towards the headf Loch Lomond.When nearly exhausted, and worn out>y the laborious vicissitudes of a restlessfife, and confined to bed in a state of ap¬proaching dissolution, a person with whomn former times he had a disagreement,jailed upon him, and wished to see him.‘ Raise me up,” said he to his attendants,‘ dress me in my best clothes j tie on my24arms ; place me in the ^reat chair. Thatfellow shall never see me on a death-bed.”With this they complied, and he receivedhis visitor with ^reat civility. When thestranger had taken his leave, Rob Roy ex¬claimed, “It is all over now; pet me tobed. Call in the piper. Let him play4 Cha leill mi tuille,* as long as I breathe.”He was faithfully obeyed, and calmly methis death, which took place at the farm ofIuverlochlarigbig,; among the braes of Bal. |quhidder, in 173.5. His relics repose inthe church-yard of that parish, with noother escutcheon to mark his grave than !a simple stone, on which some kindredspirit has carved a sword—the appiopriateemblem of the man:—I“Clan Alpine’s omen and her aid.”The funeral of Rob Roy was attendedby all ranks of people within several milesof his residence ; and so much was he be¬loved that universal regret seemed to per¬vade the whole company. An old man?whom we have seen, although then youngyattended the solemn occasion ; and waspresent some time before, when Rob Royfought Ardsheal.** oi fmb.iw bn* .mill rtoqu4 ’ I