Comical TransactionsOFir ; 'LOTHIAN TOM.KIX.MARNOCK JPr.-dcd hy II. CrntuforJ, BoohttHer,1823.'• - - : ; . '.vTHE COMICAL TRANSACTIONSOFLOTHIAN TOM.PART I.* y,• I I"pHIS Thomas Black, vulgarly callec!^ Lothian'Fom, after his native county,was born four miles from Edinburgh :His father being a very wealthy firmer;gave him good education, which he wavery aukward in receiving, being a verjwild, cross, and mischievous boy.1. When he was about ten years of age:,he was almost killed by the stroke ofhorse’s foot, which his father had, \vl ■had a trick of kicking at every per?that came in behind him ; but when Tcwas got heal of the dreadful wouuwhereof many thought he zou'd l av<died, to be even with the hox , he geta clog, or piece of a tree, full of woodeipins, such as shoe-makers use to softe.their leather upon, and with a rope he tie*it to the couple-bauk in the stable, directliopposite to the horse’s tail; then gets ui3i the bauk, and gives it a swing back,i that the pikes in the end of it, cameill drive against the horse’s arse, whichade him to fling: and the more he flung:id struck at it, it rebounded back againid struck him. The battle lasted with•eat fury, for a long time, which was)od diversion to Tom, until his father,caring some disturbance in the stable,ime in to know the matter, and was sur-ised when he saw the poor horse tan-ng his own hide, with his legs all cut!d bloody ; he cut the rope, and the bat-r: was ended. But the poor horse wouldi ver kick at any that came behind him-ferwards, but always ran from it.12. It happened one day that Tom wentishing, and broughc home a few smallfh, which his grandmother’s cat snapt upI the dark: so Tom, to have justice ofh cat for so doing, catches her, and putsinto a little tub, or c.'g* then sets herrift into a mill-dam, ordering her toa-fishing for herself, then sets out twothiee dogs upon her, when a most ter-le sea-fignt ensued, as ever was seenfresh water; for rf any of the dogsuyed to board her, by setting in overir nose, hadrons came flying to thatrter, to repulse him with her daws:sithen the vessel was-like to be overset lithe weight of herself', so she had to fitto the other; and finding the same therfrom thence to the middle, where she s;mewing, always turning herself abocombing their noses with her foot. T,old woman, being informed of the datgerous situation of her dearly beloved cacame running with a long pole to beattl>e dogs, and haul her ashore. Whnow', says Tom, If you be going to tapart with my enemies, you shall hapart cf their reward ; then gives the oil'woman such a push, that she tumbled intfthe dam over head and ears, beside hibeloved cat, and would undoubtedly hat©erished in the water, had not one of thpe" pie, who was there looking at the divesion, come to her relief.3. After this Tom was sent to tlschool, to keep his hand out of an ill turrAnd having an old cankered, crab-witttfellow for his dominie, they were alwaiat variance; for if Tom had got his whipwhich he often deserved, he was sure frevenged upon his master again for ioo Tom perceiving that his master h;a close-stc • t in a little closet within tlschool, where he went to case himseTcro gets a penny-worth of gun-powdid sprinkled it on the ground, directlyifore the seat, and lays a little of itmg i»i a train to the fire-side; thenserving when his Master went into it,id as he was loosing down his breeches,s fire to the train, which blew it all; out his Master's bare hips, and scorchedtn terribly, besides the fright, for whichitn was severely whipt; yet in a littlei er he revenged it on his Master.4. So it happened one day, as Tornr :nt into his Master’s house, the wifej|vs stooping into a big meal-barrel, t©ring out some meal; Tom takes herthe feet, and coups her up into therel with her head down, and her bareck_side uppermost; then runs into theihool, crying, O Master, Master! theI’il’sdooking out o’ your meal-stand, wi*at face, and a black ill-faur’d mouth;in’s just Auld Nick, if he be living.—this the Master ran with all the speedcould, to see what it was, and found itbe his own wife, speechless and almostOttered to death; but as she could not111 who did it, Tom got clear off. Yet; was not satisfied without some moremgeance on the old fellow; and know-g his Master had a fashion, when heis going to whip the boys, if .they would6loose their breeches willingly, he drevhis knife and cut them through the waistband behind. So Tom goes to a butchen ?and gets a raw pudding, and fills it willfelood and water, and puts it within tkwaistband of his breeches; then goes ttthe school next day, and, as the maste:was sitting with his back towards the fire;Tom lights a piece of paper, and sets hi; cwig in a low, which burnt for some tin>unperceived, until the flames came fiz,;;zing about his ears? He first put oulhcthe flames by trampling on the wig, aneirbeing informed that Tom did it, flies tchim in a rage, ordering him to loose hitbreeches, but Tom told him he was neveiso mad: then he drew his knife, ancwhips poor Tom over his knee, and withgreat kicking and struggling cuts thewaist-band of his breeches thro’ puddingand all, so that the blood gushed out, and jTom cried out, Murder! Murder! anddown he ft!!; the poor Dominie ran outat the door crying and wringing his hands.Word flew about that Tom was stickettby the Dominie, which made the people,come running Irom several parts of thecountry round about, to see how it was;but on searching him, they found onlythe empty pudding, which discovered thefraud; Then two men had to get horsest7-nd rids after the poor Dominie, wh«liiad by this time got two or three milestWay, and when he saw them coming?fter him, crying to stop and come back(gain, he ran the faster, until he could! un no more, but fell over on the road,raying them to let him go, for, if he was■ liken back, he was sure to be hanged;E nd would not be persuaded Tom was■ ive, until they forced him back and hemw him, but he would be Tom’s teacher10 longer; so Tom’s lather had to seekanother master for him.PART II.15. There was a young woman servant) Tom’s father, whom Tom had offendedy some of his tricks, and she, to be upi dth Tom again, one night spread a hand-al of short nettles in his bed, betweeni he sheets, which stung his legs and thighs: o much that he was obliged to quit hi»1 cd for some part of the night: for whichtie resolved to be revenged, wheneverj proper opportunity offered. It hap-' ened in a few days after, that she was) juvited to a wedding, where the dancingftnd diversion induced her to stay all night;sand in coming home in the morning, her .mistress set her to wash some clothes. ,But she being fatigued with her night’s .diversion, and for want of rest, fell fastasleep, with her hands extended in the .tub, and standing on her feet, with her ;belly leaning on the tub; Tom perceiv¬ing this, slips her petticoats and smock ;over her head, letting the sun shine on ,her bar? backside, which faced the high- ,way, Several people passing by while she 'rcontinued in this posture, some of them kwere diverted, and others ashamed at the isight; but a poor cadger had the isfor- ttune to be coming on the road at the i.time, and his horse taking fright at thisunusual sight, threw off the creels, and ,broke the poor man’s eggs all to smash $ twhich so enraged him, chat he lashed her tbuttocks with his whip, in such an un- ..merciful manner, that with the smart and .shame together, she had not the least in¬clination to sleep for the remaining part of tthat dav.d6. Tom being grown up to the years :and age of a man, thought himself wiser jand more artful than his father; and [.there were several things about the house ;he liked better than to work ; so he turned Lto be a dealer amongst the brutes, a cow- >' ser of horses and cows, be. and eveswet ware amongst the brewers and brandynhops, until he Cowped himself to theroom halter ; a>nd then his parents wouldsupply him no more. He knew well hisgrandmother had plenty of money, butshe would give him none, but the oldwoman had a good black cow of her own.So Tom went to the fields one evening,and catches and takes her into an oldwaste house, which stood at a distancefrom any other, and there he kept herfflfcwo or three days, giving her meat anddrink, when it was dark at night, andmade the ojd woman believe somebodyhad stolen the cow for their winter’smart; which was grief enough to thebid woman, for the loss of her dearly•beloved cow. However, she employsi Tom to go to a fair that was near by,nand buy her another; gives him three'pounds, which Tom accepts of very'thankfully, and promises to buy one aslike the other as possibly he could get.iiThen he gets a piece of chalk, and'brays, it as small as meal, and steeps it■jin a little water, and therewith rubs overIthe cow’s face and back, which madeher baith brucket and rigget. So Tom,lin the morning, takes the cow to aipublic-house, within a little of the fair.10rind left her till the fair was over, andthen drives her home before him ; and,as soon as they came home, the cow be¬gan to rout as she used to do, which- madethe old woman to rejoice, thinking it was i!her own black cow; but, when she saw 1her white face, sighed and said, Alas!thou’Jl ne’er be like the kindly brute, my :Black-lady, and yet routs as like her as •ony ever I did hear : Rut, says Tom to him- t;self, ’tis a mercy you know not what she 1says, or all would be wrong yet. So intwo or three days the old woman put !lforth her braw rigget cow in the morning, h'with the rest of her neighbour’s cattle, butit came »n a sore day of heavy rain, winch 1washed away all the white from her faceand back, so that the old woman’s Black- •lady came home at night, and her rigget icow went away with the shower, and wasnever heard of. But Tom’s father hav- -ing some suspicion, and looking narrowly -into the cow’s face, found some of thechalk not washed away, and then he gave^fipoor Tom a hearty beating, and sent him '•away to seek his fortune with a skin full 1of sore bones.PART III.1U7. Tom being now turned to his owftlifts, con idcrs with himself how to raisejj: little more money \ so he gets a longbring, as near as lie could guess to he thength of his mother, and into Edinburghi !e goes, to a wright who was acquainted:ii/ith his father and mother. The .vrightashed him how he did ? He answeredim very softly, he had lost a good dutifulbother last night, and there’s a measurer her coflin. Tom went out and staidor some time, and then comes in again,nd tells the wright he did not know whato do, for his father had ordered hint toet money from such a man, whom neanted, and he was that day gone out ofijjown: the wright asked him how muchfie wanted ? To which he answered, aguinea and a half might do, or thirty shil¬lings at the least. So he gave him theJiguinea and tlv\}ialf. Then Tom gave himftrict chargoad.j be out o?. the morrows^gainst eleven o’clock with the coffin, andstie should have his money altogether. Tomiset out for the ale-house with the money,mnd lived well while it lasted. Next morn-? ng the wright and his two lads went out.with the coffin, and as they were goingoxinto the house, Tom’s mother, standing iat the door, asked the master how he diciand where he was going with that fine:coffin ? He did not know well what tc:say, being so surprised to see her alive jbut at last he told her, her son brought jin the measure the day before, and had got .a guinea and a half from him, which hesaid was to buy some other necessaries foEthe funeral. O the u>gue ! said she, has -he played me that ? So the wright gothis guinea and a half, and so much for hisjtrouble, and had to take back his cofiinltwith him again.8. Tom being now short of moneyagain, began tc think how he could raisea fresh supply ; so he went to the port' (iamongst the shearers, and there he hired,about thirty of them, and agreed to give f,them a whole week’s shearing at tenpencea-day, which was two-penee higher thanany had got that year ; this made the poorshearers think he was an hf^st, generous,and genteel master as obey got, forhe took them all into an ale-house, and ,gave them a hearty breakfast, till theycould eat no more. . Now, says he, when!)there is so many of you together, per hap#from different parts, and unacquainted^ rwith one another, I do not know but ;IS: there may be some of yeti honest men, andi some of you rogues ; and as you are to iic* all in one barn together, any of you who! has any money, you’ll be surest to give it: l to me, and I’ll mark it down in my book,ttij with your names, and what I receive fromsi each of you, and you shall have it all againy on Saturday’s night, when you get yourjf wages. O! very well, goodman, takeit! mine, take mine, every one faster thant : another; some gave him five, six, seven,r. and eight shillings, even all they hadS3 earned thro’ the harvest, which amountedto near seven pounds sterling. Having|j got all their money, he goes on whh them,till about three miles out of the town, andcoming t& a great held of standing corn,though somewhat green, yet convenientfor his purpose, as it lay at some distancefrom any house or person. So he madethem begin there, telling them he wasgoing to order dinner for them, and sendid his own servants to join them. Away hegoes with all the speed he could, but takesanother road into the town, lest theyshould follow and catch him- Now, whenthe people to whom the corn belonged saw^uch a band in their held, they could notso the tar-corn it was, went off, cryingunderstand the meaning of it,merwhose(always as he ran, to them to stop: but*T4they would not, until he began to strikeat them, and they at him, he being in agreat passion, as the corn was uge hilly:ripe ; at hst, by force of argument, andother people coming up to his assistance,the poor shearers were convinced they hadgot the bite, which caused them t© goaway lamenting their misfortune.. ■ S0% :■ ■ ' ■' I (111 two .or three davs thereefter, as Tomwas going down the Canongare, he.meets {one of his shearers, who knew him, andkept fast by him, demanding his money,and satisfaction for the rest. 4 Whisht,whisht,’ says Tom, ‘ and^you’Jl get yoursand something else beside.’—So Tom takeshim into the jail, and calls for a bottle of | ,ale and a dram ; then takes the jailor aside, | (as if he had been going to borrow the .money from him, and says to the jailor, | ^‘ This man here is a great thief, I and twoothers have been in search of him these ,three days, and the other two men havethe warrant with them; so if you keep ;this rogue here till I run and bring them, ;}j|you shall have a guinea in reward.’ ‘ Yes,’ -Ijsaid the jailor, * go and I’ll fix the rogue Tfair you.’ So Tom got clear olf, leaving |the poor innocent fellow and the jailor Jstruggling together, and then sets off for 11England directly. -J,15PART IV."ii'af"I- Iti14■(ISt|J1i. i31I>i9. Tom having nov/ left his own nativecountry, went into the county of Nor-thumberland, where he hired himselfwithan old miser of a fanner; and here hecontinued for several years, performinghis duty in 1 is service very well, thoughsometimes playing a roguish bite on thoseabout him., His master had a very naughtycustom that he would allow them no can¬dle at night to see with when at supper.Tom one night-,'sets himself next to hismaster, and as they were all about to fallon, Tom puts his spoon into the heart ofthe dish, where the crowd/ was hottest,and claps a spoonful into his master’smouth; a pox on you for a rogue, rriedhis master, for my mouth is burnt! Apox on you for a master, says Tom, foryou keep a house as dark as Purgatory, forI was going to my own mouth with thatsoup and missed the way, it being so dark;don’t think, master, that I am such a bigfool as to feed you, while I have a mouthof my own. So, from that night that.j! Tom burnt his master'shot crowdv, thev alwaysshew them light at suppeimouth with thegot a c%nd!e to•, for his master16would fcsd no more in the dark while Tomwas about the h'^use.10. There was a servant girl in theforesaid house, j$fho always when she fmade the beds, neglected to make Tom’s, !and would have him to do it himself.—‘ Well then,’ says Tom, ‘ I have harderwork to do, and I shall do that too.’—So next day, when Tom was in the field, ;at the plow, when he saw his mastercoming from the house towards him, heleft the horses and the plow standing in 1the field, and goes away towards his :master, who cried, ‘ What is wrong ? or,is any thing broke with you :’ * No, no,says Tom, but I’m going home to make •my bed, it has not been made these two ;weeks, and just now it is about the timethe maid makes all the rest, so I’ll go . !*home and make mine too.’ No, no, sir¬rah,’ says his master, 4 go back to your "plow, and I’ll cause it to be made everynight for you.' * Then,’ says lorn, 4 I’ll !plow two or three furrows in the time/111. There was a butcher came to his |smaster’s, and bought a fine fat calf; so j ■Tom laid it on the horse’s neck, beforethe butchery and when he was gone,4 Now/ says Tom, 4 what will you hold,*7j master, but I’ll steal that calf from theDUtcher before he goes two miles off?’Why,’ says his master, * I’ll hold aiiguinea you don’t.’ e Done,’ says Tom.in he goes, and gets a good shoe of hismaster’s, and runs another way acrossii,the fields, until he got before the butcher,near to the corner of a hedge, where thereswas an open and turning of the way;here Tom darts himself behind the hedge,jfand throws the shoe in the middle of thes high-way; then up comes the butcher,'.riding, and his calf behind him : ‘ Hey,’jjeaid he to himself. ‘ there’s a good shoe.If I knew how to get on my calf again,»jl would l^'nt for it; but what signifies oneiwitheut its neighboui ?’ So on he goes,wand lets it lie. 1 cm then slips out, iwid[stakes up the shoe again, #nd runs acrossiithe fields, until he got in before the-Nbutcher; at another open of the hedge,iabout half a mile distant, and there he^throws out the shoe again, on the middlei|of the road; then up comes the butcher,land seeing it, says to himself, ‘ Now, Ia shall have a pair of good shoes for the lift-ning and down he comes, lays the calftton the ground, and tying his horse to thehedge, runs back, thinking to get themother shoe, in which time, Tom whips uplithe calf and shoe, and home he comes.18demanding his wager, which his mastercou^d not deny, being so fairly won.—*The poor butcher returned back to hishorse, got only his travel for his pains;so missing his calf, he knew not what tosay or do, but thinking it had broke therope from about his feet, and had runinto the fields, the butcher spent that dayin search of it amongst the hedges andditches, and returned to Tom's master’sall night, intending to go and search far¬ther for it next day, giving them a tedi¬ous relation how he came to lose it by acursed pair of shoes, which he believed thedevil had dropped in hts way; and howhe had taken the calf and all along withhim, expressing his thankfulness that thedevd was so honest as to spare his old hors'when he stole away his calf.Next morning Tom went to work, andmade a fine white face on the calf withchalk and water-, then brings it out, andsells it to the butcher, which was gooddivemoa to his master and other servants,to see the butcher buy his own calf again.No sooner was he‘gone with it, than Tomsays, c Now, master, what will you holdbut HI steal it from him again, ere hegoes two miles oft?’ { No, no,* says hismaster, ‘ I’ll hold no more bets with you,but riiiv. yooa a shilling if you do it.’{19Done/ says Tom, c it will cost you novi more.’ So away he runs a foot throughli| the fields, until he came beioie the butcher,rl! hard by the place where he stole the calfd from him the day before; and here heij lies behind the hedge, and as the butcheri came past, he put his hand on his mouth,r: and cried, Ba, baw, like a calf. The but-!i cher hearing this, swore to himself that\ there was the calf he had lost the day be¬fore! Down he comes, and throws thecalf on the ground, gets in through thehedge in all haste, thinking he had nomore to do but to take it up; but as he!| came in at one part of the hedge, Tomij jumps out at another^ and gets the calf onhis back; he then gets in over the hedgei on the other side, and through the fields•he came safely home, with the calf on hisback, while the poor butcher spent histime and labour in vain, running fromhedge to hedge, and hole to hole, seekingwhat was not there to be found. So thebutcher returned to his horse again, andfinding his other calf gone, he concludedit to be done by scmd&ovisible spirit aboutthat spot of ground; and so went homeand raised a bad report on the devil, say¬ing, That he was turned a highway man,and had taken two calves from him. SoTom washing the white face of the stolen20calf, his master sent the butcher word t®come^nd buy another calf; which he ac¬cordingly did a few days after, and Tomsold him the same calf the third time ; thentold him the whole afljir as it was acted,-giving him his money again. So the but¬cher got but fun for his trouble.12. THERE was an old rich blind wo¬man, who lived hard by, that had a younggirl, her only daughter, and she fell deep .in love with Tom, and Tom fell as deep .number of presents on Tom, and mounted i ,him like a gentleman, but still he put off :the marriage from time to time, and al- \ways wanted something, which the old •woman gave the money to purchase forhim, until he had got about thirty poundsof her money, and then she would delaythe marriage no longer. Tom went andtook the old woman and the girl aside,and made his apology as follows; ‘ Dearmother, said he, I am very willing to wedwith my dear Polly, for she appears asleiPART V.in love with the money, but not, with themaid; the old woman bestowed a great !:21a angel in mine eyes; but I am sorry,ery sorry to acquaint you that I am notfit match for her/ ‘ What, child/ says: he old woman, ‘ there’s not a fitter match,n the world for my Polly : I did not thinkf[our country could afford such a cleverj'fouth as what I hear of you to be; youi ihail neither want gold nor silver, nor yet«. good horse to ride upon, and when I diej?ou shall have my all.’ ‘ O but/ saysPom, ‘mother, that’s not the matter at111, the stop is this, when I was at homejn Scotland I got a stroke with a horse’sbot on the bottom of mf belly, which haso quite disabled me below, that I cannotcrform a husband's duty in bed.* TheId woman hearing this clapt her hands,>imd fell a-crying, ‘ O 1 if it had been any[iimpediment but that, but that, but thatosvofu’ that! which gold nor silver cannotrijjurchasc, and yet the poorest people, even.common beggars, have plenty of it/ ;f|rhe old woman and her daughter satandwringing their hands, andoTom stood and wept, lest he should get(no more money. 4 O mother/ sayskj Polly, * I’ll wed with him nevertheless.It love him so dearly!’ ‘No, no, youfoolish girl, would you throw yourselfm iway, to marry a man and die a maid!xifou don’t know the end of your creation.22it is tlie enjoyment of a man in bed, thatmakes women to marry, which is a plea¬sure like Paradise: and if you wed withfthis man, you’ll live and die and never1know it.’ ‘ Hoo, hoo,’ says Tom, cif Ihad got money, I needed not been tliisiway till now.* ‘ Money, you fool,* saidthe old woman, ‘ there’s not such a thingto be got for money in all England.’—!‘ Ay,’ says Tom, ‘ there’s a doctor inNewcastle, will make me as able as anyother man for ten guineas. * Pen gui-r'neas !* said she, • I’ll give him 50 guineas |if he will; but her" is twelve, and go toThim directly, and know first what he cando, and come again and wed my child,or she and I will soon die both for yoursake.’—— Tom having now got twelveguineas more of their money, prepared 1(for his journey, and early next morningset out for Newcastle; but instead of go-ing to Newcastle, he came to old Scot¬land, and left Polly and her mother tothink upon him. In about two weeksafter, when he was not like to return,nor so much as to se&d them any word,the old woman and Polly got a horse,and came to Newcastle in search of him,and went through all the Doctors’ shops,!asking if there came a young man there 1akottt two weeks ago, with a broken—| ■t23mend ? Some laughed at them, others'ere like to kick them out of doors, andthey had to return without getting any?unt of hirn.PART VI.■ 'HIS. Now, after Tom’? return to Scot-i;nd, he got a wife, and took a little farmar Dalkeith, and became a very dousean for many days, following hi# oldisiness, the cowping of horses and cows,cling of veals for slaughter, and the like,one day he went to a fair and boughtcow from an old woman, but Tomdged by the lowness of the price thate cow certainly had some fault. Tomives th* wife the other hearty bicker ofthen-says he, ‘ Gudewife, the money*yours, 2nd the cow is mine, ye maun1 me ony wee bks of fauts that she has/Undsed,’ quoth the wife, ‘ she has naeaut but ane, and if she had wanted it,rad never a parted wi’ her/ ‘ Andat’s that, gudewife ?* said he/ ‘ Indeed,’d she, c the filthy daft beast sucks ayrsel/ ‘ Kute,’ says Tom, ‘ if that be ail,soon cure her of that/ 4 O ! can yethat/ said the wife; 4 if I had kend what24had a done it, yc wadna gotten her.’—i* Avveil/ says Tom, ‘ I’ll tell you whatto do: Tak the cow’s price, I gave yowjust now, and tie it hard and fast in yournapkin, and give it to me through beneaththe cow’s wame, and I’ll give you thnapkin again over the cow’s back, and Tlay nay life for it, that she’ll never sue!herself in my aught.’ ‘ I wat well,’ salshe, ^ Fse do that, an’ there shou’d bwitchcraft in’t.* So Tom no sooner gofit through below the cow’s wame, than he!looses out the money, and puts it in hljpocket, and gave the wife again her naplkin over the cow’s back, accordingly as latold her, saying, ‘ Now, wife, you hav<|your cow, and I my money, and she’lnever suck hersel in my aught, as I tolfyou.’ 4 O dole!’ cried the wife, ‘ is tldjyour curecd me !*Ye’ve cheated me, ye’ve cheatFINIS.1Kilmarnath—Printed by II. Crawford.And Seld by him Wholesale and Retail, at his Shop, at tflCron;—where may be had, Bibles, 1'estamenti, and PsallBecks, Gilt and Plain,—Also, the following Catechisms||Father’s—Mother's—Young Communicant's—Muckarsie’lOliphant’s, and Brown’s-;—a complete Assortment of SdiSoojb;—Religious Tracts;—24 Page H;stcrie« Ballads,