'9,John Falkirk’sAND ^'VJanet Clinker’sOration,On the Virtues of the Old W.oflien,and the Pride of the Young.STIRLING :Printed by W. Maenie.^ Of SCOTLAND nJohn Falkirk’s4t%C A R I C H E S.Q. WHAT is the wisest behaviour of ig-norant persons ?A, To speak of nothing but what theyknow, and to give their opinion of nothingbut whar they understand.Q. What time is a scolding wife at herbest ?A. When she is fast asleep.Q. JFhat time is a scolding wife at herworst.A. JFhen she is that wicked as to tearthe hair out of her head, when she can'tget at her neighbours, and tbro* perfectspite bites her own tongue with her ownteeth.—My hearty wish is, that all suchwicked vipers may ever do so.3Q. What is the most effectual cure andinfallible remedy for a foolish wife ?A. The only cure is to get out of thehealing of her : But the infallible remedyis to nail her tongue to a growing tree,in the beginning of a cold winter night,and so let it stand till sunrising next mor¬ning, then she’ll become one of the peace-ablest women that ever lay by a man’s side.Q. What time of the year is it, thatthere are most holes open?A, In harvest, when there stubbles,,Q. At what time is a cow heaviest ?A. When the bull is on her back.Q. Who was the Goodman’s mwctlecow’s calf’s mother ?aA. The muckle cow herself.Q. What is the likest thing to a miacaa horse ?• • ;* if, fA. A Tailor on a mare.if f%Q. Which is the hardest din»4ever a Tailor iaid his teeth to ?A. His own goose, tho* ever so weltboil’d or roasted,Q. How many toad’s tails will it taketo reach up to the moon ?A, One, if it be long enough.Q. How many sticks gangs to the big*ging of a craw's nest. jA. None, for they are all carried.Q. How many whites will a well madepudding prick need ?A. When well made, it wili .need n«Mpre.Q. Wrho was the father of Zebedee’soMIdren ?A* Zebcdee himself.CJ. Where did Moses go when he wasfifteen years old ?A* Into his sixteenth.% How near related is your aunty's£sgoodbrother to you ?A. He is ray father.Q. How many holes are there ia a hen'sdoup ? A. Two. ,Q. How prove you that ?A* There is one for the dung, and ano¬ther for the egg.♦ \ .Q, What is the best method of eatchlngrogues ?A. There is none so tit as a rogue him¬self.Q. Wherp was the usefulest fair in Scot¬land kept.A. At Mullgay.Q. What sort of commodities were sellthere.A. Nothing but ale anJ wicked wives.Q.1 Ho w was it obelisked ?A. Because those that went to h once,would go to it no more.6Q. For what reason ?A. Because there was no money to begot for them, but fair bartar, wife forwife ; and he who put away a wife forone fault, got another for her, with twoas bad.Q. What was the reason, that in thosedays a man could put away his wife fprpissing the bed, but not for shiting it?* • ' tA. Because he could shute it awayWith his foot and ly down.Q. What is the reason now a days, thatmen court, cast, marry, and remarry somany wives, and keep only but one inpublic at last ?A. Because private marriage is becomeas common as smuggling; and cuckoldingthe kirk no more thought of than for a manto ride a mile or two upon his neighbour’smare ; Men get will and wale of wives;the best portion and properest person ispreferred, the first left, the weak to theworst ; and she whom he does not love,he puts away, and lies down with whomhe pleases.7Q. How will one know the bairns of ourtown, by all others in the kingdom ?A. By their ill breeding, and bad man¬ners.' Q. What is their ill breeding, and badmanners ?A. If you ask them a question in ci¬vility, if it were but the road to the nexttown, they’ll tell you to follow your nose,and if you go wrong, curse the guide.Q. Are young and old of them alike forill.breeding ?A. All the odds lies in the difference jfor if you ask a child to whom he belongs,or who is his father, he’ll bid you kiss hisfather’s a—e, and then you’ll ken.Q. What sort of creatures is kindliestwhen they meet?A. None can ekceed the kindness ofdogs, when they meet in a market.Q. And what is Collie’s conduct whenthere ?8A. First, they kiss others* mouths aBtlnoses, smell all about, and last of all, theyare so kind as to kiss other below the talkWhat is the coldest part of a dog ?A. His nose*Q. What is the coldest part of woman ?A- Her back.Q. What is the reason that these threeparts or men, women, and dogs arecoldest ?A. Fabulous Historians say, that therewere three little holes in Noah’s Ark jand that the dog stopt his nose in one, andthe man put his knee in another, and intothe third and biggest hole, the womanbang'd her backside : and. these partsbeing exposed to the cold blast, makesthem always cold, ever since.Q. What remedy does the man take,for warming his cold knees ?A. He holds them towards the fire ;and when in bed, draws his shirt down o-rer them.9Q. What does the women do, to w.ti/ftttheir cold parts ?A. The married women put their bac k¬side into their husbands* arms :—Virgint\and those going mad for marriage, theirmaiden head keeps them warm :—old ma¬trons, and vvhirl'd-o’er maidens, and wid¬ows bewitch’d, hold their coldest parts tothe fire.Q. And what remedy does the poor dogtalfce, tor his cold nose ?A. He slaps it below his tail, the hot¬test bit in his body.Q. What is the reason the Dogs areworse on Chapman than on any otherstrangers ?. * , ’'A. It is said, the Dogs have threeaccusations against the Chapmen, whichhas been handed down from father tej son, or from one generation of Dogs toanother : The first is as old as H3sop,the great wit of Babylon.—The Dogshaving a Law suit against the Cats, theygained the Plea; one of the Dogs com.ing trudging home, with the Decreet10below his tail, a wicked Chapman threwbis J/Jlwan at him, and he let the Decreetfall., and so lost their great privilegesthereby. The second is, Because in oldti'rjoes the Chapman used 10 buy Dogs,^tod kill them for their skins, The thirdis, When a Chapman was quartered ina farmer’s house, that night the Doglost his right of ticking the pot.Q. What creature resembles mosta drunken Piper ?A. A Cat, when she sips milk ; shealways sings, and so does a Piper, whenhe drinks good ale.Q. What is the reason a dog runstwice round about before he ly down torest him ?A. Because he does not know the headof his bed from the foot of it.Q. What creature resembles most along, lean, ill-looking, greasy-fac’d lad}',for pride ? iA. None so much as the cat, who is■continually spitting in her lufe and rub¬bing her lace, as many such ladies do the11brown leather of their wrinkled chafts.Q. Amongst what sort of creatureswill you observe most of a natural lawor instinctive knowledge ?A. The hart and the hind meet on onecertain day in the year ; the broad gooselays her first egg on Easterns Even oldstile ; the crows begin to build their nestsabout the first of March# old stile j theswans observe matrimony, and if the fe¬male die, the male dare not take up withanother or the rest will put him to death ;all the birds in general join in pairs, andkeeps so ; but the dove resembles the adul¬terer, when the she one grows old, hepays her away, and takes another ; thelocusts observe military order and marchin bands, the frogs resembles Pipers andPedlars, for the young ones ride the oldto death.Q. Who are the merriest and heartiestpeople in the world?A. The Sailors j for they’ll he singing,cursing and damning one another, whenthe waves, their graves, are going overtheir heads.Q. Which are the disorderliest crea¬tures in battle ?A. Cows and dogs ; for they ail fall onthem that are neathmost.12Q. Who are the vainest sort of peopleia the world ?A. A barber, a tailor, a young soldier,and a poor dominie.Q. /rhat is the great cause of the bar-ber's vanity :A. Because he is admitted to trimNoblemen's chafts, thike their sculls,take Kings by the nose, and hold a razorto their very throats, which no subjectds« dare presume to do.Q. IVnut is the great cause ot theTailor's pride ?A. is making of people's New Cloth¬es, of which every person, young and old,is proud. Then wno can walk in a vain; rshew, than a Tailor carrying home □gentleman’s new clothes ?i Q. What is the cause‘of a YoungSoldier’s pride ?A. When he lists, he thinks he is freeof his mother’s correction, the hard usageof a bad mailer, has liberty to curse, swear,wuore, and do every thing, until he beconvinced by four halberts and the drum¬mer’s whip, that he lias now got bofh amilitary anu civil law above his h*ad and,perhaps, far woise masters than ever.Q. Wh it is^ the cause of the poorDomiuit’s pride ? u13A. As he is the Teacher of the youngand ignorant he supposes no man knowswhat he knows ; and because boys callhim Master, therefore he thinks himself agreat man.Q. What song is it that is sung with¬out a tongue, and yet its notes are un¬derstood by people of a.I nations ?A. It is a Fart, which every one knowsthe sound of?Q. What is the reason that young peopleare vain, giddy Headed and airy, and notso humble and obedient as the children offormer years,A. Because they are brought up andeducated after a more haughty strain, byreading Fables, Plays, Novels and Roman¬ces ; Gospel Book®, sucii as the Psalm-Book, Proverbs, and Catechisms, are liKeold A'manacks *, there is nothing in voguebut Fiddle, Fiute, Troy and Babylonishtunes ; out plain English speech corruptedwith beauish cants, such as Don't Won’t*Nen and Ken, a jargon worse than theYorkshire dialect, or the Hotientote gib¬berish.Q. Why is swearing beccme so commonamong Scotch people ?A, Because so many lofty teachers14come from the south amongst us, whereswearing is practised in its true gramma¬tical perfection ! Hot oaths, new struck,with as bright a lustre as a new quarterguinea, just come from the Mint.Q. How will ye know the bones of aa mason’s mare at the back of a dyke,amongst the bones of a hundred deadhorses lying in the same place?A. Because it is made of wood.Q. Which are the two £hings not to bespared, but not abused ?A. A soldiers coat, and a hired horse.Q. How is a man in debt, like a no¬bleman ?A. Because he has many to wait onand call for him ?Q. How i* swearing like a shabby coat ?A. Because it is a bad habit.Q. How is a bad pen like a wicked andprofligate man ?A. Because it wants mending,Q. Why is a Church-bell like a storythat is handed about ?A. Because it is often toll’d.Q. What is a man like, that i<s in themidst of a river, ami cannot swim ?A. He is like to be drowned.Q. Why is a drawn tooth like a thingthat is forgot ?15A. Because it is out of one*s head.Q. How is a book like a tree ?A. Because it is full of leaves.Q. How is a good sermon like a plumb¬pudding ?A. Because there is reasons in it.Q. How is a wiiorish woman like acharitable person ?A. Because she brings her husband toa piece of bread.Q. How is a Lawyer like a contentiouswoman ?A. Because he breeds wrangling andjangling.Q. Who is the greatest fool in theworld ?A. A whore ; for she hazards soul andbody lor a miserable livelihood.Q. Who are the two greatest thieves inGreat Britain ?A. Tea and Tobacco, for they pick thepockets of the whole nation.Q. What is the difference between Aledrapers and Linen drapers ?A. Only this, The one cheats you withfroth, and the other with cloth.Q. If Extortioners cannot enter theKirtgdom of Heaven, where will Usurers,Tallymen and Pawn-brokers go ;A. The same road with Extortioners.16Q. What is the consequence of int.moderate Gaming ?A. By Cards and Dice, a man is ruin’iiin a tike;'for gaming and whoring ofteahang together.A- Soldiers and Butchers are bloodynear relations, for they both live byfiaughtering and killing.Q. What are the two hardest things tobe found, and yet they are both good intheir kind ?A. Good women, and good small beer.Q. Who is the likest to a Boatman ?A. Anhypocrite, who always luoksonaway and rows another, in all his trans¬actions.Q. What are the five greatest raritiesto be found in the world ?A. A black Swan, a Phoenix, an Uni¬corn, the Philosophers’ Stone, and a maid¬en at sixteen.Q, What is the greatest folly that sen¬sible people can be guilty of?A. To go to Law about trifles, for,whatever way the Plea ends, the Lawyer*will be the greatest gainers.Q. Who has the honestest trade in theworld?A. Ballad-singers j for they always deal17with ready^money : And it is as ancientas the Siege of Troy, for Homer was aBallad-singer.Q. What is the surest method for oneto become both rich and respectable?A. To be sober and industrious.Q. What is the best method of over¬coming the argument of a positive person.A. Either to say with him, or give himno answer.Q. What is the wisest course to befollowed by a man who has a brawling anda scolding wife ?A. To keep silent, and then she’ll biteher own lingers with anger.The end of the Carickes.18JANET CLINKER’S ORATION.On the virtues of the Old Women, andthe Pride of the Young.The madness of this unmuzzled agehas driven me to mountains of thoughts,and a continued meditation ; it is enoughto make an auld wife rin red wud, anddrive a body beyond the halter’s end ofill nature, to see what I see, and hearwhat I hear : Therefore the hinges ofmy anger are broke, and the bands ofmy good nature are burst in two, thedoor of civility is laid quite open, plainspeech and mild admonition is of noneeffect ; nothing must be used row butthunder.bolts of reproach, tartly trimmedin a tantalizing stile, roughly redd up,and manufactured thro* an auld Matron’smouth, who is indeed but frail in theteeth, but will squeeze surprisingly withher auld gums until her very chafr-bladescrack in the crushing of your vice.I shall branch out my discourse intofour heads.1st. What I have seen, and been wit¬ness to.19• #d. What I cow see, and am witness to*3d. What I have heard do hear, and can¬not help ; I mean, the diflerence betweenthe old women and the young.4th. Conclude with an advice to YoungMen and Young Women how to avoid thebuying of Janet Juniper's stinking but¬ter which will have a rotten rirt on theirstomach as they live.5th. The first thing, then, I see and ob¬serve is. That a wheen daft giddy headed,cock-nosed, juniper-nebbed mothers, bringup a wheen sky-racket, dancing daughters,a’ bred up to be ladies, without so muchas the breadth of their lufe of land ! It isan admiration to me, where the lairds area’ to come frae that's to be coupled tothem ! Work na, na, my bairn must notwork, she’s to be a Lady ; they ca’ her Miss.I must have her ears bor’d, says old Mumpsthe mother. Thus the poor pet is broughtup like a motherless lamb, or a parrot in acage ; they learn nothing but to prickand sew, and fling their feet when thef20fiildle plays; so they become a parcel ofyellow-fac’d female tailors, very unequalmatches fur countrymen ; just Flanders-babies, brought up in a box, and mustbe carried in a basket ; kn®ws nothingbut pinching poverty, hunger and pride ;ean neither milk kye, muck a byre, card,spin, nor yet keep a cow from a corn-rig.The most of such, are as blind penny¬worths as buying pigs in pocks, andought only to be matched with Tacket-makers, tree-trimmers, and male tailois,that they may be male and female agree- -able in tiade, since their piper facedfingers are not for hard labour ; yet theymight also pass in a pinch for a blacksutor’s wife, for the stitching of whiteseams round the moufh of a lady’s shoe ;®r with barbers and bakers they mightbe buckled, because of their muslin mouthand pincobeck speeches, when* barm isscam, they can blow up their bread withfair wind ; and when the razor is rough,can trim their chafts with a fair tale,oil their peruke with her white lips, andpowder the deau’s pow with a French puffrThey are all versed in all the sciences offlattery, musical tunes, horn-pipes, andcountry-dances, though perfect m nonebut the reel of Gammon.21Yet these are they, the fickle farmerfixes nis fancy upon ; a bundle of clqdts,a skel ton of bones ; Maggy and theuautch, like tvva fir-sticks an* a pickle tow,neither for his palate nor his pow ; veryunproper plenishing, neither for nis profitnor her pleasure, to plout her hands thro*Hawkej’s caff-cog, is a hateful hardshipfor Mammy’s pet, and will hack u* herhands. AU^tljf I have seen ami heard,and been witness to, but my p n beinga goose quill, canuot expose their namesnor place of abode, but warns the work¬ing mtn out of their way.2d i see another sort, who canwork and' maun work till they lie mar¬ried, and become mistress themselves;but when they get husbands, all theirthrift leaves them. Before that, theywrought as for a wager, they span as fora premium, brisked as for a brag scour’dtheir din skins as a wauker does worstedblankets, kept as mim in the mouth asa Minister’s wife, yet the whole of their toilis the trimming of their rigging, tho’ theirhulls be eveilastingly in a leaking con¬dition ; their backs and their bellies arebox’d about with the fins of a big fish,six petticoats a gown and apron, besidesa s:de sark down to the ancle-bones : ah !22what monstrous rags are here ! what ofcloth is consumed for the covering of butone pair of buttocks ! I leave it to thejudgement of any ten tailors ia town,if thirty pair of men’s breeches may notbe cut from a little above the easing ofBessy’s bum ; and this makes her a mo¬therly woman, as stately a fabric as everstrade to market or mill. But when she’s-mr^ianarried, she turns amadfcadl; her mistressdid not work much, and why should she ?Her mother ay said she wad be a lady,but could never tell where her lands lay ;but when money is all spent, credit brokenand conduct out of keeping, a wheenbonny bubly bairns, crying * piece minny,’‘passie minny,’ the witless wanton wasteris at her wit’s end : work now, or want,and do not say that the world has war’dyou ; but lofty Noddle your giddy headedmother has led you astray, by learning youto be a Lady, before you was fit to be aservant lass, by teaching you laziness in¬stead of hard labour, by giving you sucha high conceit of yourself, that no bodythinks any thing of you now ; and youmay judge yourself to be but little worth ;after all, my dear dirty face, when youbegin the warld again, be perfectly rich,before you be gentle, work hard for what23 jyou gain, and you’ll ken better how toguide it; for pride is an imperfect fortune,and a ludicrous life will not last long ?Another sort I see, who has got moresilver than sense, more gold than goodnature, more muslins and means thangood manneis ; tho’.a sack can hold theirsilver, six houses and a half cannot con¬tain their ambitious desires. Fortunatus*wonderful puise would fail in fetching inthe fourth part of their wofldly wants :and the -children imitate their mothers,chattering like hungry cranes crying ill,I want ! I want! ever craving, wilfullywasting, till all be brought .to a dolefuldish of desolation, and with cleanness ofteeth, a full breast, an empty belly, bigpockets without pence, pinching penury,perfect poverty, drouth, hunger, want ofmoney and friends both, old age dim eyesfeeble joints, without shoes or clothes,the real fruits of a bad marriage, whichbrings faith and repentance in one day.3d. Another thing I see, hear, andcannot help, is the breeding of bairns,and bringing them up like bill-flirks :they gie them wealth of meat, but nomanners. But when I was a bairn, ifI did not bend to obedience, 1 ken myselwhat I got, which learn’d me what to gie24mine again j if they had Idl’d me, tuts,®r prute no* I laid them o’er my knee,and a corn’d crack for crack o’er theirhurdles, like a knock beetle on a ham,web, till the red wats stood on their hips;this brought obedience into my house-and banisn'd dods and ill nature out ofthe door ; I dang the de’il out o’ there,and dadded them like a wet disb-clout,till they did my bidding $ but now thebairns are brought up to spit fire in theirmither’s face, and cast dirt at theii aulddaddies : How can they be good, whonever saw a sample of it $ or reverenceold age, who practised no piecepts istheir youth ? How can they love theirparents, who gave them black poisioninstead of good principles; who snewedthem no good example ?Now, after ail, when a poor manwants a good wife, let him wale anethat has been lang servant in *e house,well liked by the bairns, and the bairns'fljftither ; that’s the lass that will makea good wife : For them that dauts theyoung bairns, will ay be kind to auldfpoks an they had them.FINIS.