I Blackamoor in the Wood :O NT A| Tragical End of a gallant Lord and virtuousLady ; together with the. untimely Deathi of their two Children, wickedly perform¬ed by a heathenifh and blood-thirffy Vil¬lain their Servant. The like of ’whichCruelty was never before heard of.G!arg0Wj Printed by J. & M. Roberrfoa-Saltmarket, iFo?..The Blackamoor in the Wood.T N Borne a Nobleman did wcdt^ a virgin of /’reft fame ;A fairer creature never diddame Nat me ever frame }By whom he had two children fair,whofs beauty did excel,And were their parent’s only joy,they lov’d them both fo well. „This Lord he lov'd to hunt the buck,the tyger and the boar,And flili for fuiftnefs always tookwith him a Blackamoor jWhich Blackamoor within the wood,his Lord he did offend.But there he did him then correct,in hopes he would amend.The day it drew unto an end,when homeward they did hafle.When with his Lady he did reft,until the night was pad.Then in the morning he did rife,and'both his-fervants call,A hunih/g to provide to go,flraight they were ready all#’Caufe of his toil, his Lady didintrcat him not to go ;Alas! Good Lady, (thkn quoth he)v/hy art thou grieved fo ?Content thy fed f, l trill returnwith fpeed to thee again ;Good father, quoth the little babes,with us Hill here remain.Farewel dear children, I will goa tine thing you to buy;But they therewith no whit content,aloud began to cry.Their mother takes them by the hand*faying. Come go with me.Unto the higheft tower, whweyour father you ihall fee.The Blackamoor perceived now,who then did ftay behind.His Lord a hunting to be gone,began to call' to mind.My Mailer he did me corrett,my fault not being great;Now of his wife I’ll be reveng'd,he Ihall not me intreat.The place was moated round about,the bridge he up did draw;The gates he bolted very ftrong,of none he Hood in awe.( 4 )He up into the tower went,his Lady being there.Who when (he faw^is count'nance grim,(he ftraight began to fear.But now my trembling heart it quakes,to think what 1 muH: write;M.y {enfes all begin to faint,iny for.l it doth afright.Yet I muft make an end of this,which here I have begun,Which will make lad the hardeft heart,before that 1 have done.The wretch unto the Lady went,and there with fpeed did will.His lull forthwith to fatisfy,his mind for to fulfil.The Lady fhe amszed was,to bear the villain fpeak ;Alas! quoth (he, What fir all I do !with grief my heart will break.With that he took her in his arms;Ibe ftraigkt for help did cry ;Content your [elf, Lady, quoth he,your hufband is nor nigh.The bridge is drawn, th.' gate is fhut,■ therelcie come lie with me,Or elfe I do protefl and vow,thy butcher I wii! be. \t.( 5 )Tiie chriilai tears ran from her cheeks,her chi!vlren cry'd a%vtin4And fought to help their mother dear,but alas ! ’twas in vain.For the egregious filthy rog.re,her hands behind her bound,And then by force with all his ftreugth,he threw her to the ground,•With that (he (bnek’d, her children cry’d,and futh a nolle did make,-The townsmen hearing their lament,did feck their nart to tukc :& /But all in vain, no way was found,to aid the Lady’s need,Who ciy’d to them mod piteoufiy,oh help! oh hdp with fpced.Some did run to the foreft wide,her Lord home for to call;And they that Hood, did fore lamentthe gallant Lady’s fall.With fpeed the Lord came polling home,but could nat enter in ;His Lady’s cries did pierce his heart,to call he did begin.Hold thy rude hand, thou fitvage Moor,to hurt her do forbear ;Or elfe as fur$ as that 1 live,wild borfes {h?ui thee tear.( 6 )WifJj that the rogue ran to the wal!,he having had hiAnd brought one child under his arm,his dcareft blood to ipili.The child feeing his father there,to him for help did call.O bather, help my Mother dear,we ihail be killed ail.Then fell the Lord upon his knees,ami did the Moor in treat,To fave the life of his poor child,whole fear was then fo great.But the fid wretch the little child,by both the heels did take.And dalh’d his head againft the wall,while parent's heart did quake.Em being dead, he quickly ran,the other child to fetch.And pluck’t it from the Mothers bread,like a molt cruel wretchWithin one hand a knife he brought,the child into the ether.And holding it ever the walllaid, Thus lhall die the Mother $With that he cut the throat of it,then on the Father calls-To fee how he the head had cut,that down the brains did fall.flVis done he threw it o’er the wallinto the moat fo deep,FWhtcb made his aib m wring his hands,i and grievoufly to weep.Then to the Lady this rogue went,[ who was near dead with fear,Yet the wild wretch tnolt cruelly,did drag her by the hair.And drew b3r to the very wall,i which there his Lord did fee ;'Ijfhcn prefentty he called out,1 and ftU upon bis knee.;j)uorh he. If thou wilt fave her life,ii] whom I do Itold fo dear,v will forgive thee all that’s pall,1 tiio* they concern me near.l!> fave her life, 1 tb.ee b feech,U Lave her life 1 pray,nd t will giv- thee what thou wiltdemand of me tills day.•Vil, quoth the Moor, l do regard,the moan that thou doll make,thou wilt graut what 1 requell,i’h f ■. vc her for thy fake.ftve h r life, and now demand,fH of me tl.en what thou wilt:at off thy note, ar.d oot one drop,f of her blood fhall be fpilt.( 8 )Wn!i that the noble Lord did take,a knife into his hand,And there his nojfe did quite cut offin. place where he did hand.Now 1 have bought my Lady’s life,then to the Moor did call:Then take her quoth the wicked rogue,and down he let her fall.Which when his Lordlhip he did fee,his fenfes all did fed ;Ytt many fought to fave his life,but they could not avail.When as the Morr did fee him dead,then he did laugh nchainAt them, who for this gallant Lordand Lady did complain.Quoth he, I know you’ll torture me,if that you could me get,But all your threats.I do not fear,nor do regard one whit :Wild horfes would my body tear,I know it to be true;But I’ll prevent you of that pain,then down himfeif he threwToo good a death for fuch a wretch,a villain void of fear ;And thus d^th end as fad a talc,as ever you did hear.Glafgcw, Trimed tvy J. St M. Robmian, Sa'fmark"*. ii