THENEW PROVERBS,ONThe Pride of Women ;OR THEVanity of this world difplayed.[PARTS FIRST AND SECOND.To v*hkh is added.n excellent Receipt to aH young men who what1 Wives, how to wale them by the mouth as Mu igodid his Marc. Alfo a defcription of the vain Girlswho wear the Crazy Janes, which hang over tneback ct their heads li- e a Chimney-iweeper‘spiglt-cap, or a bibly Jock's fnout, with their huni»ph:. X'cked gowns. - . ' , ''WiS’t]Hk, v*" " f *Ectsrcdaccording 9 0?(ki| *79$VO . - -THENew PROVERBS ok the PRIDE of WOMEMA-PART. I..A Woman who has haughty looks, is under thlinfection of a p1ague, even pride, t'-he is iguorant cjjherfelf, and thinks as much as ftie is her own makeijalways defpifing her fellow creatures, as if flie wnot of the feed of Adaoi ;2. Her eyes being always bent upwards, towarthe Ikies, in my opinion, fuch women come from tlworld of the moon, and lock backwards towarJ#their native country.3. She who is patron full of pride, is empty jvirtue. O how wife in her own eyes is fhe ! eloqu£ 1in fpeech, expert in lave without experience. I4 He that joins with fuch a woman, binds himft Ito be a galley flavc all the days of his life •, he mi Ilight aghnft wind and waves, and tow her to higrave’s mouth, if die fink not; for fhe cannot be fo j5. Woe’s me! for many women are weighed dowith folly lifted up with vanity, and deeply wounbeing fo in love with themfelves, that them hepr’ne away with hatred and forrow, becaufeneighbours are exalted above them.6. This is afore evil whichcleaveth to thedauters of Eve, handed do vn from mother to 'dtughtfrom one generation to another.7. No fooner have they got judgment to difebetween the right hand and tne left, but theycarried away to be taught bf Madam Vanity,daughter of Lucifer, who brings them into thelege of Contradiction', which hands m 'tUe towtContention:ti. Here they are catechifed in ah the parts of blings, ftph as painting of the face, and pithinghair, and fixing thefe high crowned cap'head- dr dies, piled bn their heads like3 ^Or a (\uoll of hay, ind even kilting their petticoatsto the rtrrnp.9. Ccme all ye dumb brutes, cats, dogs, and other:re.ittfres and behold a fooliih people, walking onearth, as if they were not of the earth, decking tbeiraodies with brat, and their bellies with beer, and yet■ ha a in rough (kins, feem as comely in your1 kinds, andre ore obedient to ycur Maker and m after than tliey,10 Come, come ye lilies of the fisld, and rofes ofhe garden, and behold how queens, pnnceilV, and• iburitelaes, are counterfeited by poor cEpfarts of va-lity, going to church with the rthies of unrighteouf-tefs round the rumple ; with a difplayed banneraf painted hypdetify in their right hand, to guardheir fa;es from the fun. O but the lilies outfhinehe IriTes for beauty : the rofes rejoice and affrontturn, while they, like howlets, hide their faces fromhe beams of the fun. -is if their faces were fifth, andheir hides hind’s tongues •, they abhor the brightseams thereof as a cat does muftard.11. Many of thefe women are mere dangerousiBtir, the ’'■loutas of devouring cannons^ though theyappear as angels in the church, they are as ferpentsin the ihects,- and as Beelzebub abovfi the blankets :Vvrqecs the man, that marries fuch a woman, he hadbetter be wedded to his ftaff, and go to bed withthe beetle in his bofom.H'CHAP. II.E who gets a fcolding wife, and a mortifyinggoodmo'her, had far better be buried alive ;for the one will cry him deaf, and the other willwatle his money and his meat ? fill his belly with’. ind, and his heart with form w, till with hungerend anger he will die a double death every day.2. He that marries a gentle wife without ^ weigh-jdy purfe of gold, or as good a portion, binds him-ifelf to be his lady’s page, his own fervant, captainClout’s coachman, and Mr. Poverty’s poftibon, alltht days of his life.VJ , •• *(_ 4 ) .Br3 The care of fuch a woman is to e!othe llantiquity; if her huibai.d fhoulo' go naked, fbe laboriwith her tongue, not with her hands, defcribing t:genealogy of her forefathers, the gentleneis of hfblood, and of her hufband’s defeent, who neve? cainsto honour and poverty till he came to her.4. He that weds for money is a mifer, and he fbeau*y a foci; but he that for virtue and the other t ftis wifer than the weaver who took a vife and wcuj|have nothing becaufe he had nodisng of his own.5. And the reafon was, becaufe his wife might failI have made time rich with my tocher, uhen thdhad nothing at all.0. He that matries a widow for her pelf, had bellter marry a whore, if fbc be handfome and who!feme; for the widow will he upbraiding him withe wealth and picafure f ie had with her former hutband, who is always the bed eecaufe be h germ. .7. Whereas the' whore will be afhamed’to fperlof her former ;pleafiires, becau e they were folctlfmuggled and unlawful ; but rather ILe will rejoici-love, and efttfem thee, when fie enjoys tie lanytwithout fear, fcandal, frame or reproach.8. He tb.at marries a widow, let it be with ci ?■who had a hcjfbard That gave her blows on evei*»fide for her breakfaf, and was hanged for fesbnjltthat fhe may hare to fay fie had got he beft hufbaiiito her laf. Arul if thou do not fo, theu art a pocpwretch, Til warrblst you.‘fc h A r. 11.0IT is moft natural for every fex to have a cefre to Jwards its fellows, and without the company ceach other they have no mutual happinefs.2. Is it not reafon able for thee, O man ! who airefolved to join thyielf toa wife, that thou join thhoufe together firft by a mathematic* 1 order, whlcouples and cumfoiling above, and pier air it beioty.... ( 5 )■> Goto the birds, and b1* not blindfolded, mdioboifd their neft, lay their eggs before they hatch1 their young. Be not fc fooliih. as to have a child,before you have a wi^-, nor a wife before you havea hcu.e to hold her in.4 Stuff thy heufe with all manner of furniture| nsceffary for the family, marry thy wife in the p doing. month, and thou ff.aU have warmnefs all the winter.5. Beware of running too fad, left you come to fall,l for the fair fex have flmrt heels, and off n fall back-I wards when bca-ing of the voice of wedlock, fwoon-j irfg away, for the joj of a relief long looked for ;I behold 'hem not ••hen they turn up their ten toes,I left thou fail mto the trao from whence there is no| returning without committing great wickednds6 But when thou goeft to cl oofe a wi/e, wale her!by the mouth as Mungo did his mare j for by heri words you may knew whether Ihe be a wife woman1 or a fool., 7. If flie be poor, proud, and prideful, turn theattack of your band to her, and your face to another t:|for ftie is the worft pennyworth ever came into aipmr man's pack fhecr, yea happy is he that goesihome with the toom halter v. 'Kout her.ip- S But if you chanqc to admire the charms of orewlso is black and lovely, decent and di t; ret, hoaeftland vir'uous, tho‘ never fo poor; cleave thoy unto|fcer by ah means, for fuch a woman v.iil hold thee as•ber head and ludbaTid, then ftvait- thou reign as aiking ov( r thine own houle, and ail thy family ffaUj-r fubject unto thee.9 For if ti ou marry one who thinks herftif wjferidvnmyfelf, the will uiurp your authority, counter-inand thy orders, and hold thee more like her monkeydtar Ir r huffantl or ipafty.! to iveep not private company vrit'-t a woman, thatpa great finger, nor a girl who is gams-life, forthe roiling of the eye and the Tweetnefs cf voic-incourage men to commit wichednefs.u. Fake not a wife that k tea«-'xlnci.sd for fecitiv;( 6 )ccir trcnly I? rrrlisfte dlfpofet1 fccn ?rgry^rdcs fcoapleaied, tafily perfuaded to do any thir.gf; ard vhentcnpted. will ret flacd iodorrify jour head; for fi?ct»are live heufo’s children.12 Neither do yTe encounter with-.one who is tall,for Inch long people, when the' fall, are too heavyto rife. But the beft way under the fon is to marryat d fo continue, look back to derty maidens, andgive them the iccrnful catalogue as follows :13 O je haughty maids, mock my proverbs, arI’ll meek veur price. Sigh for a man when it is toolate, and fend tor him when he will not come. X°UJfor y in jcuth if, t( I’m o’tr young to marry yet,’nnfil the wrinkles rife on your f-cc like the back ofa ram horn, and have but one tooth, bound in withs rag ! Then make a changer of your thumbs, and>thoner of veur fingers, and play.Fain would I marry a man juft now,I’ve loft my time and my lover too.14 And Isere I {hall be filent for a fhert time,fchrn foall I vex Vanity once more. Let one fay I ama rattle fltull, another, he is jumbled in his judgmentcr difurbed in his iludies ; fo I make an end, leftalfo, th» y fay I am become a preacher,and every tradis encroaching upon another. Now he that wonderat my felly. I will wonder at his wifdcm, and thei^re w'e even cne with another.'J he End of the First Fart.PART. II.COME, O men and mimftersand behold madme^and foolifh women, rufhiog into the bonds cwedlock, as the horfe doth into the battle.v. No, no, no holding hack, but John Slothe anMaggy Idle muft be married, even becaufe they havmtkrs bUT'meannefsj no teacher but luff, no wbut wicked r efs ; no wealth but wanton folly, and pocpride is alVtheir poileflicn, amujuit^ only excepted"tv' • . ( 7 )3- ^'or honourable lair-l of Slugpard-fiald’sifon, and flie is the daughter of Slipraylaboum4. Be'uo d he go th with his garters unbound, hi*ibofomba^p, holding up his bx*esch.as with his hauls.,| 1;. Up gets Maggy ta tlie morning again(l the hour1 of nine, whether it be day-light or not, but not with-iout the-power of a pearler, for the cover* hsrftlf1 with her peticoat, and runs to the dung hill a« a ftl,-Idier to his arms, when alarmed by the drum.I 6. This is the chara&er of two, which may be■ I multiplied into million, two by two that fall irvonmifery by matrimony, and are deadly wounded bythe plague of poverty, for want of a virtuous pro-:|cecding in themfelves.[ 7 Tneir great care i.. once to l>e firmly m'rfied,:ian.d then all their cares aie drowned in the fleep ofduft, and vrhen they awake, the flam; of calfllovsj is quite out, then ttaey look up, when their eyes arej opened, and feeing them fhocked with v/o. Idly carts,ialmoft naked, and next to nothing.8. Now they muft avork or want, their belly avagesd wav again ft them; their back and beds mu A be| clouthed ; their children alfo come upon them thick,thick if not threefold.• 9. Th;n fays the hufiatnd, What have I done?,,.I work hard all the day to nayielf, and get no wages ;my belly is never filled with bread, but O my heartis almoft like to break wtth forrow S10. O had I been flill the fervant of a lother manj than had I got rnv ordly bread and yearly wages,I but now I have lofl good bread and great pleafure,j and O but her beef be a weighty burd-m u«to (ne.4 tr. Let never a man wale bis v.ife at the iriik-:J door, nor pick up a pafvitei image-in the market; as- .I I have done to.inv deadly danger.; 2 Her fine bulks are turned into.n.iikrli.Me bratt;I in Head of painring on her face, a fit^ugh of dung^-i,•1. which is the fign of a fapiefs carecafe, occafioned by1 the fcarcity of leones, and a fcantinefs of pottage.13. O jutiigrabk maclnefs and wicked altera; ion*i 8 yoccarioil^cl thro'fond lovt, and forward kindnafs.14, What can bs v?orfc in a Itonfe, than a homedgood wife, and a hunimil goodman a finged cat, ar itburnt dog, having nothing elfe but difpette and a;poet's poriion, which is perfect poverty.15. Here the good wife's tongue is a law, and thetongs the feeptre fof her lupremacy, the children fihunt their father as a cur doth a cow in a cad yarJVuThe wife whifp£r$ him a cuckold, arid all the child-dren may fav amen, our mother's a whore.ro This is the fweeteft cf all mufic in the ears rof Old Kick, when the goodwife't paffion breal s o t >like a flame againflher huiband ; and he with vicious jblows, in hot rage, gives her a doubl? dqwncom'which is commonly odlpd next to muni r, if noi fo.17. Now are the flames of flefhy love quenched,and their charity towarcs tach oth:r become as coldas clay ; their former love is fmothered to death inthe f’> ,o!-e of their wrath, and pride is beco.ne their{ennent and ruin.FINIS