THEHISTORYO FLAWRENCE LAZY.CONTAINING,Tis birth and flothful breeding; how he ferved thefchool-mailer, his wife, the ’iquire’s cook, and thefarmer ; which, by the laws of Lubberiand, was ac¬counted High Treafon. His arraingment anj trial;a id happy deliverance from the many trtafons laid tohis charge.( * )PREFACE.1w hether of the court or country, ,nobility or mobility, young, or ohl ■rich or poor, bond or free *, to thy'prote&ion I commit this book, hop¬ing you will receive it in love andgood-will ; for as much as it is of nofmall antiquity, the original beingmany years before your great grand¬father peeped into the world, and foremains to this day, known by thename of Lazincfs. A thing in whichfeme young people have fo Ihrowdecthemfelves, that in time they havtbeen overgrown with it; fo that it ha:lately become fb hard a cruft, thathey are forced to be well threfhed before they can break them of it. Novamong many that have been fore troubled with that diflemper, the molt noned was Lawrence Lazy.-—The motivthat encouraged me to publifh th:book, was for your mirth and rnone^and my pleafure and profit,Who am,Your’s at commTHEHISTORY,O FLAWRENCE LAZY.chap. r.;)fhis birch and heavy breeding ; andof his being’carned to fchool.SIR Lawrence Lazy, governor ofLubber land cattle, in the coun*y1 Moth, married a fair and beautifulidy, named Katherine Sloth, byidiom he had one fon, whom he cal-ed after his own name. It is to bebferved, that at his birth he was notinly the wonder of the women prefent,|ut alfo the attonilhment and grief ofiis indulgent parents : for as it is ufiialir children to come crying into theTor Id, fome ttruggling ; this had no:iani..r of motion, either by limb oroice, but like a heavy lump he layitnout any figns of motion, neither>uld he at any time open his mouth> be led without help. ’Lis true he4 THE HISTORYthrove in fleilr but never would taketo his feet In the place where they;laid him down there they found him.jMoreover his chieftil delight was asihe grew up to deep in his clothes, amLefpeeially if he could but get a pillowin the chimney corner, there he wouldlie to his fatisfacdion ; by which meanshe had almolt Jod the name of Law-,rence, moil ot the fervants calling himLob-lie by-the-fire ; at which his pa-rents were much offended, and iharplvreproved the fervants who gave hiuthat nick-name. He mull be callecLav.-rence, forafmuch as his name dinagree with his qualities, and his qua-;hues with his name.Now the lady his mother on a certain day faid to his father, Let us pnjour ion to the boarding-fchool, for between the help of his learning, an:the pleafant company of young fchciars, he may be made to be both livel:and adlive. His father confented thentto, fo that he was forthwith carried tjfchool, for he would not go ; the f.jther agreeing with the mailer for hiion’s board and education, earned.)defired he might have the liberty jOF LAWRF.vCF LAZV. 5cvalk forth with the fcholars'ih the fha<-|Jy groves every evenine: for his • e-ation this was agreed upon, and his[oarents returned home, leaving himco the care of his new mader.CHAP. ir. ^ !W v '< -vird on srf hn-t gftdjrDf Lawrence falling ailoep in a provejand fo lohng his walk-mates. Of hismeeting with an old man, who gave1 him a charm, with which he wroughtmany wonders.NOW according to agreement, Law¬rence was allowed to walk withv-verai young fehotars in the field,^ere upon a certain night he hap-ened to llray from the reft of theompany, where amongft fome hay-Iocks, he fell into a dead deep. Theight coming on, and his companionsmeed to turn home without him :'hat account they gave of him to hislaitcr, i have not heard, neverthelefs-awrence at laft awaked, and beheldm ancient man, with white locks ?ndvlean vifage coming towards him ; foIe arofe, and in & iluggilh manrjei4I6 THE HJSTORYwent to meet him. How now, itipretty lad, faid the ancient man, whamakes you fo late in this lonely placeMarry, quoth Lawrence, I have loimy company, and by that means atleft—My fon, quoth the old marthough they have left thee, I have founthee, and will be no fmall Iriend tthee, if thou’k follow my directionsI know in the firfl place, thou art tr.forrow of thy parents, and the vvorder of the world through the melarcholy lazy doth which has attendethee ever lince thou firlt came into thworld, and becauie thou ihalt not Ithe firft perfon given to lazinefs,will furnilh you with a charm, whicfhall enable thee to make others fhtimes more lazy than thyfelf. Ay?:hereupon he prefented him with a refring, laying, Whenever thou Ihalt pi»this upon thy finger, all men, womeand children on whom thou loqke:lhall become as half dead, thro’ bea\deep, which diall then feize therand they Ihall continue fo during tfijpleafure ; and the charm diail be bn Iken by drawing the ring from thy fudger, when thou ihalt fee fit. Be fur aOF LAWRENCE LAZY. 1;ny fon, faid he to make ufe of thename' and it will (land thee in greatdead in every time of trouble—-Law-i.ence received thefe gifts thankfully,end after having eroded the old man'saand with a grey groat, they partedrery friendly, and Lawrence returnedaome, though late in the night,lis fchool ; where his mailer threaten-jd to chadife him in the morning fe-rerely for his demeanor.CHAP. III.idow Lawrence ferved his mailer, andthen made his efcape.0 -LAwrence finding what his mailerhad faid, made no great hade to,,:iie the next morning ; wherefore,.vhen the ichool was full, the mailer<n his place, and the fcholars roundaim, Lawrence was lent for, who wasbrought in, led between two. At■ which time his mader * commandedjihim to be horfed, in order to give himcorreclion ; but Lawrence ilily putting-on his ring, juft as he was taken upon.the boy’s back, he fii d cad his eyes on^the mailer, and then upon the wh^l *8 THE HISTORYfchool, by which means they all be¬came in the twinkling of an eye fnftupified in their fenfes, that they fellinto a profound deep, where they alllay, while .Lawrence fit in his place,laughing at the wonderful efF fls ofthis ring. At length his miftreL com-,ing acrofs the yard with a hot ni. fsof his matters, he looked upon her,and immediately fire fell down, brokethe bafon, fpilt the pottxt; and con¬tinued fleeping, whiltt, he made thisverfe, which he left :My matter he did threaten me,but I am much mittaken.If I have not my freedom got.And fairly fav’d my bacon.This done, dreading what mightfollow, he took his flight, and at hisgoing off he drew the ring, whichbroke the charm, f’o they returned a-gain to their fenies, and upon findingthe verfe, they concluded that Law¬rence had furely bewitched them, andif it were poilible he could be found,he fliould be ieverely puniflied for thefame.OF LAWRENCE LAZY9CHAP. IV.Of his caufing' a gentleman’s ^ook tolofe his place.']\TO'.Y Lawrence having left the faidIchool, and betaking himfelf un¬to travel, withoiit either meat or mo¬ney, at laid he grew extremely hungry,and calling at a gentleman’s houfe,hoping to get ibme refreshment, thecook told him he had nothing for him.Why, faid Lawrence here is great pre¬parations made for fealting. It is true,faid the cook, our mailer is gone tobe married, and I am getting readythe wedding dinner ; neverthelefs it isnot to feall fiich idle knaves as you.J->-On this Lawrence put on his ring,then calling his eyes on the cook, andtue reft of the fervants, there was nomore bufmefs minded. One fell afleephere, and another there ; there was nobody left awake to wind up the Jackor bake the meat; the fowls at the firewere foon burnt up to a coal. QuothLawrence to hinifelf. bo now theirmailer will have a fine dinner whenhe comes home, with his new brideIO THE HISTORYand the reft of his friends.—Lawrencefound fomething to iill his belly, andthen fat down and made the followingverfe :. . • ’ ' ■ :Poor Lawrence was here.And bebjeld this good cheer,And crav’d with a forrowful look,To have a bit,Yet none could he get,Wherefore he has fitted the cook.When he has thus done, he lockedup the gates, and threw the keys overthe wall, and then walked to and fro*upon the green before the houfe, tillthe bridegroom with his attendancereturned, who finding the gates lock¬ed, and although they knocked vehe¬mently, they could get no entrance, fowere forced to fend for a fmith to openthe fame. When as they entered, theyfound their fervants all afleep, andtheir dinner burnt and fpoiled at theire, which put the bridegroom into ag’eat naftion. So then Lawrence dreweff the ring, the charm broke, and thecook was able to fpeak for hitnfelf :bir, Jaidhe, ayoung man, whom theyOF LAWRENCE LAZY. ftcall Lawrence came thither, and I amperfuaded that by him we are all be¬witched. Then Lawrence and youmay to the devil together, repliedthe mafter, for you fhall flay no longerwith me ; fo he turned him out ofdoors, and made fliift for a dinner atthe tavern.CHAP. V.The trick he ferved a country farmerwho would not give hinv the leaflmorfel of meat. *SOON after, Lawrence in his trave.came to a corn-held, where a far112 THE HISTORYmer and his harvefl folks were fitting]under a hedge at dinner.- Muchljgood may it do you, faid Lawrence,will you give a young traveller a drop!of your drink, and a morfel of your!meat ?—No, fud the farmer, I would Ifboner fend you to the whipping-poft,.|a punifhment provided for fach vaga-1bonds as you.—Saved thou fo, faidLawrence, if I am not foon even withyou, then let my name never more becalled Lawrence, fo putting on hisring, and looking at them, the farmerand all his folks fell fad afleep withtheir dinner before them, and the vidl-uals in their mouths. Lawrence thenfilled his belly, and left them all fine-ring. He was hardly got cut of thefield, before it fell a raining, and focontinued, the remaining part of thatday and night, and even till the nextmorning ; at which time he returnedto the field, and found them all afleepas he had left them, and aifo likedrowned rats. Then he wrote the fol¬lowing fhort verfe, broke the charm,and made his efcape :You threatened Lawrence but of late,Therefore he brought on you this fate.OF LAWRENCE LAZY. 13Now being come to themlelves End¬ing by the verfe that Lawrence hadbeen the caufe of this, the farmer vow¬ed, it he ever Jighted on him he fhouldbe made a public example, for thetrick he had put upon them.CHAP. VI.Lawrence is taken and fent to Lubber-land caltle.CO Lawrence in a fhort time grew1 fo notorious, by the many exploitsthat he had wrought on thofe who af«*fronted him, that at laft there waswarrants iflued out for apprehendinghim, though they proved fruitlefs andto no purpofe, he being protected bythe ring ; for no foonertfid they cometo feize him, but he overcame themwith lazinefs, fo that he got his liber¬ty. But being one night at an inn andin his merry cups, he told the land¬lord by what power he did all thofewonderful things, and ihewed himhis ring ; which the landlord {hatchedout of his hand, and fending for anofficer he was carried to Lub'oerlandCaltle, of which his father was gover-ON the feventh day of the ninthmonth, the trial of LawrenceLazy in the town-hall of Never-work,b fore the right Honourable WilliamBaxter, judge of the court ; and SirJames Baxter, recorder ; Peter Widge¬on, cryer. The court being fet, theprifoner was called to the bar, and fi-lence commanded.14 THE H STORYnor, to remain there till the affizes,and then to be tried for all his of¬fences.Lawrence’s Trial in the -Town-hall ofNever-work ; and of his coining oilat laft with dying colours.OF LAWRENCELAZY 15Cryer. Lawrence Lazy, hold upyour hand, rhou ftandeft here ind'uRedof High Trealon, by tuhc name of Law¬rence Lazy, of the conty or (loth, inthe. town of Never-work. Whereasthou, as a falfc and wild traitor, nothaving the fear of thy father beforethy eyes, but ftirred up by the infli-gation of old Ralph, hall wickedly andmalicioully, at fundry times endcav-; cured to overthrow and diiquiet thei government of our Sovereign Lord the. King, by ftupifying the fenfes of his! loyal fubjetfls, by bringing on themI fuch a floth and idlenefs, that it has1 endangered not only their welfare andi health, but alfo brought them to ut-l ter ruin and deflru<5lion. What fayeftI thou ? Art thou guilty of rhefe trea-I fons, or not guilty.Law. Not guilty my Lor .Cryer. By whom wilt thou be tried ?Law. By jury of twelve men, and!the known laws of Luhberland.Cryer. I wilh uhee a good delver-ance. O yes, O yes, O yes, all man-1 ner of per fons who have been wrongediby the priloner at the bar, let them(icome in, and they lhall be heard, fori6 THE HISTORYhe Rands on the deliverance of life, andtdeath.Clerk of the Crown. Call over the3jury. David Dunftable, Henry Heartlefs.!Samuel Soufecrown,Timon SnvellfmokeRalph Ractlehead, Benjamin Belly cock,Jonas Gingerly, Giles Gambler, Bar-naby Bottlencfc, Dick Carelefs, SamFolly, and Francis Fumbler. Twelvegood men and true, Rand all of youtogether and hear the evidences.judge Jobfon. Let them Rand fixon one fide, and fix on the other, fortheir better hearing;Attorney General. Gentlemen of thejury, you have heard the indictmentall read, touching the treafonable prac¬tices of the prifoner at the bar, whichwe doubt not to prove upon him ; andif fo, you mud find him guilty ; andthen we fhall enquire what goods andchatties he is now poffeiTed ot, andwhen he commited thofe trcaions. And if you find him not guilty, thenye lhall enquire whether he Red, andit ire did nor Ry, ye ihail fay io, andno more. And therefore now hearkento the evidences.Crvei' call Mr. Penman. (Mr. Pen-OF LAWRENCE LAZY.' 17srsan called and fworn) Mr Penman youmud tell my Lord what treafons youknow already to have been committedby the prifoner at the bar.Mr. Penman. My Lord, the prifb^ner at the bar was my fcholar, andwhc’n i was about to correct him fora mifdemeaner, by tome cunning drafthe ftupifted our fenfes, and overcameus witii fiich floth and l.r/nneh, that\vc were not able to flir hand nor loot,but were laid like fo many fenfeldv(locks and dones upon the ground.Moreover he wrote tome lines to ud-braid me with what he had done.Judge. Set Mr. Penmen alide.Cryer. Call Mrs. Penman (Mrs. Pen¬man called and fworn) Mrs. Penmanyon are to tell my Lord what treafonsyou know committed by the priibnerat the bar., Mrs. Penman. My Lord, on thatj very morning that my h u lb and dif-; fered by the prifoner at the bar, I was< coming acroi’s the garden, with a hot. Breakfad for my hufband, the prifo-1 ner at the bar cad an eye upon .me, at1 which time fuch a fit of Lazinefs feiz-ed me in every limb, fo ILverely, thati * THE HISTORY1 could not (land, but tell to theground, fprained my leg, broke thebafwn and fpdt the poffet.Law. I defire that Mr Penman maybe afked how he knows that 1 wrote.,the verfe of which he fpeaks * in regardhe fays they were all like fenfelefs flocksand Hones.Judge. Lawrence, will you denyyour own hand ?Law l deny nothing, but it is yourbufinefs to prove it.Cryer. Cali Mr Dripping the cook.(Mr. Diipping call’d Smd fworn.)Mr. Di.pping tell ny Lord whatyou know of the pi ifoner at the bar.Mr. Dripping. My Lord, when thefquire my mafier was gone to be mar-i ied, and I left at home to dref> thedinner, the prifoner at the bar cameinto the kitchen, and at his approach,in the twinkling of an eye, i was ta¬ken with a gapmg, firetching, reach¬ing, and yawning, which wras follow¬ed with fo much lazy floth, that 1 w\asnot able to proceed on my bufinefs,and for wTant of winding up the jack,the pig was fcorched and burnt to acinder, and the capons to a coal ; nay, ,OF LWREfejE CttV. _ 19and my felt, with ail the reft of the C r*vants were laid fuoring in the middleof the kitchen infomuch that whenmy mailer came home, and found mein that pickle, he was not only in apaflion but likewife kicked me out ofhis fervice—And all this I fuffered bythe treasonable pra<5liccs of the pri-foner.Law. My Lord, it is no wonder fota fat greafy cook to be htzy; and there¬fore it is very hard that J Should becalled in queftioh tor it. Perhaps hehad been down in. the cellar, and indrinking his mailer and Lady’s healthhe might ilupify his fenfcs.Judge. Lawrence this is a cunningfetch cf your own, but it will not availyou any thing, in reguard you are no¬ted for a promoter of lloth and idle-nefs.Cryer. Call Mr. Wheatley the farmer,Mr. Wheatley call’d and fworn.Cryer. Mr. Wheatley, inform myLord what you know concerning theprifoner at the bar.Mr. Wheatley. My Lord, as I wasdining with my harveit folks in Miccorn-field, the prifoner the bar2d Tf# fliSTORY *cr#ne, would have had me givehi v- meat and drink, which I rcfufedto do ; on;which he immediately, bywhat means I know not, threw us all!into fiich a fldthful fit of lazinefs, that:we did not only negledl our afternoon ;work, hot lay deeping all-night in dif-xnal fhowers of rain, which made usall look like drowned rats in the mor¬ning-.‘ fudge. Lawrence you have heardthe evidence, which is very full againftyou. :] aw. My Lord, they are very largein their charge againfl' me ; but theren nothing proved. Befides, i can callmany to my reputation.The lirft that was ■called was TomAt-reed, a weaver's eldell apprentice,who, addreffing himlelf to the court,fpoke thus :My Lord, I have known Lawrencefor fome time, and do take him to beone of the belt friends we apprenticesever had ; for, my Lord, I live withMr.. Shuttle the weaver, and if it werenot for Lawrence I ihould have beenworked to death : but he takes a walkwith my mailer fomethnes, by which£OF LAWRENCE LAZY. 21means, I as well as ♦ any other appren- &tices, lay hold of fome refrcfiling plea-fures : Wherefore, I hope this honour¬able court will be favourable to him,for he is a good man.Then ftraighc there milled into thecourt a numerous train of ihoemakers,j glovers, and taylors’ apprentices, to¬gether with all the tribe of the build¬ing trade, making moil earned andhumble fupplications to the court inbehalf of Lawrence, ftying. That ifhe died they would all go into mourn¬ing for him ; for he had ever been a1 friend to poor apprentices in feveral1 cafes too tedious to mention ; and’ therefore they hoped the gentleman ofthe jury and the court would do theirbed endeavours to bring him off clear,Judge. Gentlemen of the jury, youhave heard the evidence' againd the-priibner at the bar, and it may oe ex¬pected that 1 Ihould (urn it up , to bringit fredi into your memories ; but asyou are men of fence and underdand-ing, I ihall fay the lets ; yet give meleave to put you in mind of .fome of themod remarkable treafons that have been; witneffsd againd him,—rYou have all22 tTHE HISTORYheard wha Mr. ? enman faid, con¬cerning his being laid by him into adeep lleep ; and his wife, who fprained;her leg, broke the bafon, and fpilt the$poffet Next Mr. Dripping’s complaint,who declared, That through him thefat pig was burnt to a cinder, and the *fowls to a coal ; and he him felf kicked 5out of his fervicc. And laftly, Mr. 'Wheatley the farmer, whole fulferingswere none of the leaft j and therefore,gentleman of the jury, I think in myopinion, you cannot but bring himin guilty.■ *The jury went out half an hour, andthen returned again.Attorney General, Gentlemen of the*jury, are you agreed in your verdi<5t.Jury. Yes.At Gen. Who {hall fay for you ?Jury. Our foreman,At. Gen. Look you upon the prifo-ner ht die bar ; is he guilty of thetreafbns laid to his charge, or NotGuilty.Foreman. Not Guilty.At. Gen. And fo fay you all ?Jury. Yes.OF LAWRENCE LAZY 23At. Gen. Did he fly ?Jury. No.At. Gen. Gentleman of the jury,fee court difcharges you.At the word No, there was a gene-,al Ihout of acclamation ; and the even¬ing was fpent in ringing of bells, bon-ires, &c. for the happy deliveranceif Lawrence Lazy.Tho’ many ow’d to him a grudge,Yet thev were ne’er the near ;The jury fatisfy’d the Judge,And fet poor Lawrence clear.—* Song : The Faithful Shepherd.When flow’ry meadows deck the yeaf,and fporting lambkins play,When fpangl’d fields renew’d appear,And mufic wak’d the day ;IThen did my Chloe leave her bow’r.To hear my am’rous lay,'Warm’d by my love fhe vow’d no pow’rShould lead her heart aftray.The warbling quires from ev’ry boughSurround our couch in throngs,' ( 24 )And all their tuneful art beftcw,To give us change of fongs :Scenes of delight my foul poifefs’d,I blefs’d and hugg’d my maid ;I robb’d the kiffes from her bread,Sweet as the noon-day’s fhade.■*]Joy tranlporting never fails,To fly away as air,Another fwain with her prevailsTo be as falfe s fair.What can my fatal paffion care ?I’ll never woo again ;All her difdain I muft endure,Adoring her in vain,# ’ ^What pity ’tis to hear the boy,Thus fighirig with his pain ;But time and fcorn may give him jov.! To hear hy figh againAh ! fickle Chloe, be advis’d,Do not thyfelf beguile,A faithful lover Ihould be priz’d.Then cure him with a finite.F I N I S.