THEREMlRKiBLE and EJsTTER.TAINHISTORYOF ARe. claimed Lady of PleafareAND THEGRATEFUL RE TURN flie made herGENEROUS BENEFACTOR.Stirling, Printed in the Year 1803.( 2 )The Reclaimed Lady of Pleafure.A Gentleman in the heat of futnmer, walk¬ing alone in < he ft'dds.coniemplating withhimf. If being extremely thirily, ftept into thefrfl houfe that offered itfelf, and called for acup of beer fearing himfelf in the firff roomnexr to the frreet fie had not iat long, be¬fore tv=o or three young wenches came fkittifh-ly in and cu- of the room ; and feting him aman of fdhion they thought to make a bootyof him for it proved a common bawdy-houfe.The youngefl and handlomeft of them intreat-ed him not to be feen below, where every por¬ter and common fellow came to drink but totake a more convenient and retired room hegentleman, fufpeffed the place yet being will¬ing toftefomef fhions took the gentle proffer,and went up flairs; where they two being a-lone and a bed in the room, beer being broughtup flie began to offer him more than commonccurtefy being fo fir from modtfly, that fheaim of: proflif'uted hcrLlf to him, which he ap¬prehended, afrced lier in plain terms if thefeiiot nu;e provo c<- tions to incite him to |1 ifl which fhe as plainly confeffed To whichhe replied that he was willing to accept of herkind proffer only for modeffy’s fake hedtfir- |ed l'*.r to fhew him into a dark room. She 1led him thro' f verrd rooms, hut ; id he to'd Iher that none of »hJe were dark enough ; in- Ifomuch, that at l,tff the began to diifke him, Ibccaufe in all t’n.t time, he had not made for |one frundly proffer \t length fhe hn ught |him into a ch e a ’'tow room with .nothing jjbut a loop hole for light; and tcld him, dir, IJUnlefs you propofe to go into the coahhole thisis the daikeit place in the lioufe flow doththis pleaie vow ? To which he anfwered rhouftri mpet, canft thou bring me to a place intowhich the eye of heaven cannot pierce ann feeme. canft thou perfuade me to aelfo detcO iblea crinae and hateu by all gi-od men: for cannotthe eye of heaven behold us here in our v/kk-ednefs ? Or fays he art them fo irreligious tothink religion but a dream ot f i le ? ) ct he bidher confiJer her Rate in this life and what herbeft could be. a tVhore. the name odious rheprofefTictT abominable and that fie was a finkof fin and difafs; that fie. was a continual vaf-fal to every con fable and beadle, never certainof her lodging but in Bridewell. To conclude,he gave her fuch »lecture that from an impu¬dent frump t he brought hior to be a repentingconvert; and fie appeared to him n her form¬er firnple and innocent life, and protefed with,tears that courle of life was hateful to her, andhad fh« any friend or kinfman, that coul 1 pro-*pile her any nnam to relinquifli that trade,which in her foul fie detefed fie would be¬come a new woman, for from that hour fhevowed chafity all h. r lif e-time. Upon e quiryof her birth and name, he found he had beenacquainted with her father, who had now beenfeme time dead; but for his lake, and her ap¬parent tears, and ieemiog p nifence, he told herif it lay in tain, he would o; her wife oifpci'e oflier according to her wdhes: and withal charg¬ed her, that if he lent unto her within twodays feme money, and acquainted her whereto come thatjfhe fhould attire hcrlelf as mo-dcliiy as pofTibly ihe could, and inflamly re*< 4 ).pair unto him at hk firfl fending; and this being-agreed betwixt them, for that time they parted,the gentleman, wondrous careful of hisundertaking hecaufe (be was his new creature,came to a kinfwoman of his afar off, Tmd foleiher there was a civil maid a kinfwoman of hislately come from the coujitry, . who wantedfervice. whom if ftie pleafed to entertain itmight prove a great good to her. and no lefsa courtefy to him. i his motion being accept¬ed, flie was fent for according to appointment,and entertained Her modelt behaviour, andfair carriage, won her in a (hort time the o-pinion of her mailer, and a great affetbion fromher mtflrefs; who falling Tick even to death fomuch doated on her new fervant that {he fentfor her hufband, and deffr^d him that if hethought of marriage after her deceafe to makethat woman his wile, and mother to her chil¬dren. The gentlewoman foon after dies, heis left a widow and the charge of the whol,eboufe left to this new convert with the bring-in up of his children ; which {he executedwith fidelitv, that he calling a more curious eyeupon her youth and beauty ; and withal re¬mem bring his wife’s lafl words, he contractedhim'elt unto her. and they foon alter married.But before any of thefe laft paffages happened,I mull remember to you. that inftantly uponthe* preferment of this young woman the gen-tlemaa who brought her this fortune, adven¬tured all his means upop a voyage that nufear-ried, for the {hip wherein he failed, was takenby the Spaniards, and he almoH; a twelvemonthkept a prifoner at Cadiz. But at length beingfaniemed, he came for this country, but fo< 5 >poorly and ddefted, that be was afhamed tofliew himfelf to my oi his friends: but waiv¬ed up and down by ov 1 lit ht having ferree ahomely rag to eov- r him from nahednqfs, orhiieh im from Oiame-’It happened that juft upon his return, the oldman died too, and left her pcffcffed of eighthundred a year during the minority of her chil¬dren ; bet the third thereafter, and v /thal, iogreat tud go'd opinion had he of her, that hemade her full exe-.ytrfti blow juft as /he vasfollowing the hearfe-to the church i having di¬vers fuitors while her hufoand’s body wasfpree cold ’ this geptleman by chance comingby like a p £tn:e of the prodigal, (he caftingher eye afide Had efpiad him and prelentlyap'ptehtnded him to be the man he was andwhifpe-ring a ftrvant in the ear. bid him fallinto djlcourfs with him, to enquire his nameand lodging and fo proceed to the funeral;but in any cafe to fpeak nothing as ftom her.The ferv.aut feft ofl from the train and did ashe was commanded and brought her true wordhow all things food. ihe next morning 'byher appointment) came a gentleman very ear.ly to h^s lodging, .fhe having taught him hiskflon before hand who dtfued to (peak withhim, and firft afked his name which tho’ un-vill'.ngly he cold him : t lie other proceeded,that if he was the man he pretended to be, hehad heard of his birh and noble qualities andwithal of his misforunes at lea, and not will¬ing that any gentleman fhould groan under fqgreat a burden, told him there was an hundredpounds and bade him futnifli himfelf with sp,parel, and other neceftaries, and fo was ready( 6 )to falce h*s Ifave The otlicrs cxtafy - -with fsgreat a courtcfy from a flranger. defired toknow the reaion he had to he (b charitable,what hope had ol future fatisfaftion. . or atleaR to rdolve h;m what fecuri’v he demanded?The other anfwered, that for the firlt. his cour-tefy v/as grounded upon his worth . his iatis-faflion was in acknowledgement ; and his fecu-r«ty in nat ht knew he was hone ft; and toldhim three days after he would '•all upon him, (when he would be habited like rim is 11 to tn- jtre ;t his farther acquaintance, and fo prefentlyleft him. tic was *roubi d in his mind above Iwonder, to receive fuch a bounty from a manunknown, when all his kindred and familiarfriends were aihamed ql his.acquaintance yetto the beneht oi the forme’- occafion, he fuitedhimfelf according to his tormer, not prefentfortunes When the gentleman came accord¬ing to his protnife, he feemed extremely glidto fee his preient alteration and withal intreat-ed him to walk abroad with him to dinner . hewillingly alf nted, not once demanding whe¬ther- in the mean time, the late widow hadprovided a great feu ft. to which Ih? had in¬vited all ht r luiters. this gentleman whom Ihehad employed being one of the chief L'heinert was upon the table, the gutPr ready toftt down ; now the fft that came were the twonew friends In came the widow to bid themall welcome This.new made up gen.l man ig¬norant of v> h itloever happened, denamded ofhis friend •, if it was not iuch a woman ? Whobri fiv told him all; how (he came a ftrangerto the houfe, and what a fortune by Iter de-iBeaiicur, ihe had in fhert time purchafed jthat fhc was now a widow and had fuch andfu.ch means iefr, all or moft of thefe gentlemen,(and himfelf among the reft were-uirors. andthat their hope was this day Ihe would makechoice of a hufbvnd : Whatever he thought,he faid nothing for the present- The widow'sturn w as to place every man according to h:sdegree, or at haft to her own fancy ; tills newgentleman was negle&id, and the chairs be¬ing furniftied. left handing by the window,Hie only took place at the table’s end leavingher hm{band’s chair-empty; when fuddenly ftart-ing up mt thinks fays Hie fome one in thisroom might well be fpared for vve have moreguefts than ftools. he ^entlomin at thefewords bit his lip and was intreated to fit dow nby his friends ; but fays the widow, is thus afuitor too? No queflinn one th.‘t ei:her bor¬rowed his clothes or engaged all his credit forthis one new fuit in hopes ro gain the widow jbut women are now a-days grown more wife;by whofe acquaint .nee came he hither ? Mine,answered his friend : Then fays file perhaps hewants a dinner, and hath no money to pay forhis ordinary A^ll he may fit down among thereft ; fome of you there make fame frnblelbow room flitfe words made him with him-fclf again a prifoner in Limbo or ; ny wherebut where he w-i> ; tiiis was fport to the reft,bn* torture to him. who much bhmed her in-gr tifude ; yet arming h.imf if with patience,lie fat down fiient wlrh ?n id.fb nnch eating aslittle as he fp.ike , all were n c ry at the table,fome of them were making him their mirth, tfmratf.tr to pi aie her. A htahh went round tothe widovv’s next hufoand, dll but him pled.( 8 )ged it gladly* he forcedly,, fit length rifmgfrom her chai»‘. metliinks, fays (he, we are allmerry only that gemiemao at >he lower end oft!. - table is melandioN bat 4 know the caufe,itjsperh .ps because he is pl ced To low . butii that ne his dil-eau^ 1 have got for it a prefentremedy : when walking to him where he fat,file deiired him to remove, for the had anotherplace for him lie intit a:ed her not to tormenthim any forth, r, retufcd to rib . but the wouldni-ds'enfor him the reft Hkev. iic pe/Takded,cs won 1 ribg what farther fp t . fhe would makehim’ -V- :1, faid he 1 am yours to day. butwiiiren.y o-.never hereafter; and fo bringdrawn by her. to the upper end of the room,like a b. ut to the flake, where her- hufband’jchair il -od empty ; now firs fays (he, with 5itu-re ieriou.v countenance than before, mv newhu : . ad, hi there in my old hufband’s chairiin b> i T y ur gucfls welcome; hill he fret-t-j.g and they laughed as before, then fhe era-V-d o. roon *' r !o abufirig his patience onlyprofited that this meeting was purely for hisfake, sud to make them wittnefTes of their pre-i nt * otvac't; for if he reUifed her to wife, fhevo: never to wed another hufb me acknow-jedvi •> •’ it all her i-.*' une next to divine pro-vki a c came by his goodnefs, omitting thefoT.-a -f circumilar.ee i and that fhc knew no bet¬ter way to expref. her gratitude, than to conferIS em on him by whom tin y fir it esm-i fheywere contracted the fuitors wintndT.s, andafter married.Thus ends as famous ard entertaining ahif-••>ory as ever was published in fo I mall a volume.FiKIi.