THE COMPLETEOH WHOLE AUT 0/POLITE CORRESPONDENCECOSTAINING A GREAT VAPJEIT OF IMPORTANT AND INSTRUCTIVELETTERS ONEDUCATION, BUSINESS, FRIENDSHIP, AND LOVE, Ac.mit*igj! I*U-Jli)m<g-}ift*Ut!»vs* ■*va.*'69• J :!<ss-3OS-'?tiSL?t#9C£?OS-Jter15-9vi?»S 9tJS'V‘5?'S?VSj?(5?VH?m?<4'!«>-•*&?i&O*#:)tjn-ii pJ<$ )ft'}*&?tn&<ri^    ,      tl83tiiPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS/c?0,theCOMPLETE LETTER WRITER.INFANTILE LETTERS.A young Lady to her Parents.I Hoptc that my dear papa and mamma will ex¬cuse the badness of the writing of this letter, whenthey shall he pleased to recollect, that this is myfirst attempt since I have learnt to join my letterstogether. I have long been anxious to have the.pleasure of being able to write to you, and beg youwill be pleased to accept this my first humble offer¬ing. As my constant study ever has been, so shallit continue 10 be, to convince you how much I ammy dearest parents,—Your affectionate and dutifuldaughter.A Young Gentleman to his Friend.I cannot fail, my dear Harry, most sensibly tofeel the loss you have sustained in the death of agood and indulgent father. It pierces me to theheart, for I know how great was your affection forhim, and how feelingly you must bemoan his loss.I will call upon you to-morrow, and we will cry to¬gether ; for as we always mutually enjoyed oursports, why should we be seperate in our griefs PThey tell me you do not cry but sit in gloomy si¬lence. I do not like that, for 1 have somewhereread that tears ease the heart, and open a passagefor the anguish of the soul. '1 hat God may givelyou patience under this terrible calamity, is the*most fervent prayer of—Your disconsolate friend.Ansiver to the preceding,I know of nothing in this world hut a letter frommy dear Billy, that could have so soon awakenedme from the deep and melancholy gloom with whichI was overwhelmed. Your letter forced from myeyes a flood of tears, and since that my heart ismuch easier. Am I not wicked in thus repiningat my hard fate, when it is undoubtedly the work,the pleasure of that great God, to whose will, mydear Father has often told me, we ought at all timesto submit? Others, perhaps better children thanmyself, have experienced the like loss, and moremust hereafter submit to the same dreadful misfor¬tune. How contentedly should I have died in hisstead ! But then I should have prevented him go¬ing so soon to Heaven. My poor mamma is al¬most distracted, and my grief adds to hers. I will(herefore endeavour to conceal it. Let me see youto-day, or to-morrow at farthest, which is all I cansay at present, but—what a father have I lost!A young Lady to her Brother.You seem, my dear Billy, to make good the oldproverb, ‘ Out of sight, out of mind.’ It is nowtwo months since 1 received a letter from you.You must not pretend to tell me, that, howeverfond you may be of your books, you could not findleisure to write to me in all this time. They tellme that you spend a great part of your leisure timewith a little miss of about eight years of age, withwhom you are very fond of reading and conversing.Take care, if I find that to be true, that 1 do notcome down and pull her cap for her. As for your¬self, if you were within the reach of my little ton¬gue, I would give you such a peal as should makeyou remember it for some time to come. However,if you will write to me soon, 1 may possibly forgiveall that is past, and still consider my self—Yourmost affectionate sisterAnswer.I am very sorry, my dear sister, that I havegiven you so much reason to complain of my neglectof writing to you, but be assured, that my affec¬tions for you are the same they ever were. I readilyconfess, that the young lady you complain of, hasin some measure been the cause of it. She is asfond of reading as I am, and 1 believe loves you onmy account. I did not tell her what you threaten¬ed her with, but I am sure, were you to come hereon that errand, instead of palling her cap, youwould embrace and love her. I will do what I canin future to avoid setting your little alarm in mo¬tion, and especially when I shall pay you a visit.1 bought you at our fair, a most brilliant doll, which1 shall bring up with me when I come home. Tillthen, believe me—Your most affectionate brother.From a Father to his Son at School.1 could not, my dear child, give a more oonvinoing proof of my affection for you, then in submitting to send you to so great a distance from me. 1preferred your advantage to my own pleasure, andsacrificed fondness to duty. I should have donethis sooner, hut 1 waited till my inquiries had foundout a person whose character might he responsiblefor your education ; and Mr Brown was at lengthmy choice for that important trust. With regardto your school connections, it is impossible for msito give you instructions at present. All that Ishall now say to you on this subject is, quarrel withno one, avoid meddling with the disputes of othersunless with a view to promote an accommodation;and, though I would wish you to support the digni¬ty of a youth, be neither mean nor arrogant. Ihave nothing more now to add, than to pray Godto give you grace and abilities, and that your ownendeavours may second the views of—An affection¬ate father.A youth at School to his Father.I am infinitely obliged to you honoured Sir, forthe many favours you have bestowed upon me; allI hope is, that the progress I make in my learningwill be considered as some proof how sensible 1 arnof your kindness. Gratitude, duty, and a view tomy own future advantages, equally contribute tomake me thoroughly sensible how much I ought tolabour for my own improvement and your satisfac¬tion. 1 have received the books you sent for myamusement. The Princes of Persid I have almsjstfinished, after which, 1 shall peruse Mrs Chapone’sLetters on the Improvement of the Mind. Theyplease me much. The liberal allowance of moneyyou have been pleased to make me, shall be appliedin the best manner I am able. I am sure my dearfather will not censure me should I devote a partof it towards the relief of the wretched and unfor¬tunate. Pray give my most dutiful respects to mymother, my kindest love to my brother and sisters,and believe me, dear Sir, your most dutiful andalfectionatc son.1iFrom an elder Brother to a younger.As you are now, my dear brother, gone fromhome, and placed in a very capital seminary oflearning, 1 thought it not amiss to put you in mind,that childish amusements should he laid aside, andinstead of them, more serious thoughts imbibed,and things of more consequence made the objectsof your attention ; whereby we may add to the re¬putation of our family, and gain to ourselves thegood esteem of being virtuous and diligent. Youmay judge, in some measure, of the value of goodeducation, from the unavailing lamentations youdaily hear those make, who foolishly shrunk fromthe difficulties attending the various branches ofscholastic education. What a difference there isbetween an aged man of learning, and one who to¬tally neglected his education in his youth ! the for¬mer, in the evening of his life, finds a perpetualsource of amusement in the knowledge he acquiredin his early days, and his company is admired andsought by all those who wish to derive understand¬ing from the knowledge of others, improved by along life and philosophical experience; but the ig¬norant old man is no company for himself, nor anyone else, unless over a pitcher or bottle, when theassistance of a pipe will be necessary to excuse hissilence. I know you have too much good natureto be offended at my advice, especially when I as¬sure you, that I as sincerely wish your happinessand advancement in life, as I do my own. We areall very well, thank God, and your friends desiredto be remembered to you. Pray write as often asopportunity and leisure will permit; and be assur¬ed, that a letter from you will always give greatbsatisfaction to your parents, but to none more thanto—Your most affectionate bi-other.A young Lady to her Mamma.Dear Mamma,—The great pleasure 1 see otheryoung ladies take in the study of arithmetic, andthe advantage it seems to give them in conversa¬tion, render me desirous to be similarly accomplish¬ed. I throw myself with confidence on the kind¬ness of my dear and ever indulgent mamma, to fav¬our me in this particular, and flatter myself that herapprobation of my proficiency in this branch of ed¬ucation, will be equal to that she was pleased to be¬stow on me in the last holidays, and which contri¬buted so much to the felicity of—My dear mamma’smost dutiful and affectionate daughter.Advice from a Father to his Son.My dear Sen,—It cannot fail to give me greatconcern and anxiety to hear that you are lately fal¬len into bad company, keep late hours, and givegreat uneasiness to your master, by breaking therules of the family. When he expostulates withyou on this occasion, 1 am told you return pert andbold answers ; and instead of promising, or endea¬vouring to amend, you repeat the oftence. Youhave entered, it seems, into clubs and societies ofyoung fellows, who despise all good examples, andmake such persons as would do their duty, the sub¬ject of their ridicule, as persons of narrow minds,who have not the courage to act with the spiritthey do. On this occasion, however, I must ex¬postulate with you, and set before you the evil con¬sequences attending your present conduct. In thefirst place, what do you mean by breaking the rulesof a family you have bound yourself by contract tofliserve ? Do you tliink it honest to Ln-ak throughengagements, into which you have so solemnly en¬tered, and which ore no less the rules of the corpo¬ration you are to he one day free of, than those ofa private family? Seven years, some of which arealready clasped, are not so long a time, hut thatyou may see it determined before yon will he fit tohe trusted with your own conduct. Twenty-oneor twenty-two years of age is full early enough fora young man to he his own master, whatever youmay think of the matter; and you may surely staytill then at least, to choose your own hours andyour own company. Remember you have no timeyou call your ow7n, during the continuance of thecontract. I have gone through the same servitudewith pleasure and credit, and found myself my ownmaster full soon enough for my discretion. Whatyou think of yourself I know not, hut I wish youmay do as well for your own interest and reputa¬tion, a- 1 have done for mine; and I assure you Ishould not have thought it either creditable or hon¬est to act as you do. I could have stood the laugh•of an hundred such vain companions as you choose,for being too narrow-minded to break through allmoral obligation to my master in order or show7 thebravery of a had heart, and what an abandonedmind dared to perpetrate. A bad beginning sel¬dom makes a good ending; and if you were assur¬ed that you could stop when you come for yourselfwhich is very improbable, how will you answer itto equity and good conscience, that you will not doso for your master? There is, let me tell you,more true bravery of mind in forbearing to do auinjury, than in giving offence. You are pow at10an age when you should study to Improve and di¬vert your faculties; you should now lay in a fundof knowledge, which, ripened by time and experi¬ence, may make you a worthy member of the com¬monwealth. Do you apprehend you have nothingto learn, either as to your business, or as to theforming of your mind ? Would it not be much bet¬ter to choose the silent, the sober conversation ofbooks, than such companions as never read or think ?When I was your age, pecuniary advantages werelaid out in the purchase of instructive friends—Imean books. You wmuld pass many economicaland pleasant hours in reading such useful volumesas Mason on Self-Knowledge ; Essays on Rhetoric ;Tomkin’s Beauties of English Poetry, &c. Byapplying yourself to books, instead of such vaincompany, you will in time be qualified for the bestsort of society, and be respected by all ranks ofmen This will keep you out of all unnecessary ex-pences, will employ all your leisure time, will ex¬clude a world of temptations, and open and enlargeyour notions of men and things, and finally set youabove that wretched company, with which you nowseem so much delighted. One thing let me recom¬mend to you, and that is, to keep a list of thoseyoung men whom you at present consider as yourcompanions, or of whom you have any knowledge;and, during the next seven years, observe whatfate will attend them. See if those who follow notthe course you so lately enterred into, will not. ap¬pear in a very different light from those who do ;and from the industry and prosperity of the one,and the decay or failure of the other, (if their vainways do not destroy them before or as soon as theyHbegin the world,) you will find reason enough dailyto justify the truth of the observations I have herethrown together. As nothing but my affection foryou could possibly influence me to these expostu¬lations, so I shall soon hope to receive from yourmaster a pleasing account of your reformation.A Mother to her Son in his Apprenticeship.I am very sorry, my dear Sammy, to hear thatyour master and you do not agree so well as 1 couhfwish. I was always afraid you would expect thesame indulgence when you got abroad into the world,as you experienced when at home. You knew, thatin many instances I have endeavoured to makeseeming hardships as easy to you as I could ; but ifthis makes you more difficult to be satisfied, it wouldbe a great trouble to me, Your uncle tells me Iam afraid with too much truth, that the indulgencesyou have received from me, have made your pre¬sent situation more disagreeable than it wouldotherwise have been—Whatever 1 have done foryou, was always intended for your good, and no¬thing could so deeply afflict me, as to see my ten¬derness have a mischievous effect. Therefore, rnydear child, to my constant care for you, do not addthe sorrow of my seeing it the cause of your be¬having worse than if I had been less tender to you.Before we put you to your master we had a verypleasing character of him from all his neighbours,and those who had any dealings with him. AsMr James, who is now out of his time, gives himthe best of characters, and declares your mistress tobe a woman of great prudence and good conduct, Iknow not how to think they would use you ill.Consider, my dear, you must not, in any other wo-12man than myself, expect to find a fond and perhapspartial mother ; for the little failing I could not seain you, will conspicuously appear to other persons.My affection for you would make me wish you tobe always with me; hut as that would he inconsis¬tent with your future welfare, and as you must cer¬tainly be a gainer from the situation you are nowin, let a desire to promote my happiness, as well asyour own, make every seeming difficulty light. Ihave desired your uncle to interpose in this matter,and he will write to you soon. He has promisedto see justice done, provided your complaints arefounded on reason. Believe me, my dear child,your ever affectionate mother.Colonel Steelman to his Son.My deal' John,—As tho last good I can do foryou in this world, I now join to the trifles I leaveyou, these few lines, and which I beg of you oftento read for my sake, who ever loved you so tender¬ly. Above all things fear God, as the supremeAuthor of all good ; love him in your soul, and hereligious ; but, detest every tincture of hypocrisy.Regard your neighbour, that is, al! mankind,and of whatever nation, profession, or faith, whilethey are honest, and be ever so thyself, it is (liebest policy in the end, depend upon it.Guard against idleness; it is the root of everymisery, to which bad company gives the finishingstroke.Love economy without avarice, and he ever thy¬self thy best friend.Fly from the excesses of debauchery; they willrot thy body, while they are a canker in thy mind.To keep both sound, my dear, be never behind13hand with thy correspondent, with thy creditor,with thy daily occupations, or with thy conscience,and thy soul shall enjoy peaco.By using air, exercise, diet, and recreation, thybody shall posses health and vigour.Dear John, should fortune frown, which, dependupon it, sometimes she will, then look round onthousands more wretched than thyself, and who,perhaps, did less deserve to he so, and he content.Contentment is better than fine gold.Wish not for death, it is a sin, hut scorn to fearit, and he prepared to meet it every hour, sincecome it must, while the good mind smiles at itssting, and defies its point. Beware of passion andcruelty ; hut rejoice in being good-natured not onlyto man, hut to the meanest insect, that is, the wholecreation without exception ; detest to hurt themhut for thy food or thy defence. To be cruel is theportion of the coward, while bravery and humanitygo hand-in-hand, and please God.Obey with temper, and even pleasure, those setover thee; since, without knowing how to he obed-. ient, none ever knew how to command.Now, my dear hoy, love Mrs Stedman and herlittle children from your heart, if ever you had areal love for your dead father, who requests it ofyou. She has most tenderly proved a help in thyinfant state; and, while thou art a brother to herhelpless little ones, prove thyself also a parent anda Guardian, by constant kindness, and a propertonduct. Let that good sense with which heavenr^as been pleased to befriend thee, ever promotepeace and harmony in my dear family, then shallthe blessings of Almighty God overspread you andthem ; and we, together with your beloved mothermy dear Johanna, have a chance once more to meetwhere, in the presence of oar Heavenly Benefactor,our joy and happiness shall be eternal and completewhich is the ardent wish, the sincere prayer, andonly hope of your once-loving father, thy tenderparent, who, my dear child, when you read this,shall be no more and rests with affectionate heartto all eternity—Your’s.Johx Gab. StedmawP. S. Let not your grief for my decease over¬come you, let your tears flow, my dear, with manlymoderation, and trust that I am happy.LETTERS ON BUSINESS.Letter from a young tradesman to wholesale dealers.Gentlemen,—I hope it will not he a disagreeablesurprise, to see below, an order on my own ac¬count1 am not in the lea«t doubtful of your servingme on the best terms ; that is, so as to enable n.eto sell as cheap as others.—And whenever youhave occasion for money, your demand shall eitherbe paid, or you may draw on me for the amountPray be careful in choosing my goods, and espedilions in forwarding them, which will tend to increaseyour correspondence with, Gentlemen, your mostobedient servant.A 7'radesman to a Qustovier.Sir,—Your lull for goods supplied last year, hasnow been delivered upwards of three months, and Ihave waited on you several times to solicit payment,but have not been so fortunate as to find you athome; I have a very large sum to make up in thecourse of a week, and shall esteem it a very particu¬lar favour, if you can let me have the amount ofmy bill delivered within that time; I trust you willexcuse the liberty I take in writing to you on thissubject, and believe me. Sir, your most obedienthumble servant.Answer.Sir,—I am sorry you have had the trouble ofcalling so often for your money, and still more thatit is not in my power to pay your bill within thetime you mention ; I am, at present, very short ofcash, and shall be so for these six weeks; at theend of that time I will settle with you. lam. Sir,your humble servant.The Tradesman's Reply.Sir,—I should be sorry to appear troublesometo any customer, but you who are not in any busi¬ness, may not probably know how subject trades¬men are to large demands for cash, and how muchan omission of payment may injure them in theworld ; the credit on your bill already exceeds, bysome months, what is usual in trade to give, andwhat I give my customers in general; I hope there¬fore, you will not take it amiss, that I have drawnon you at six weeks for the amount of my demand,I have sent the bill by my clerk for your acceptance,not doubting that it will be uly honoured, and that16you will excuse this liberty from, Sir, your most |obedient humble servant.A Tenant to his Landlord.Sir,—It is to mo a matter of great uneasiness, jthat I cannot at present fulfil my engagements. Ihave experienced lately such heavy losses, and metwith such great disappointments, that I must in¬trude another quarter on your goodness. What- ‘Iever shifts I may then be put to, you may dependupon hearing more to your satisfaction than at pre¬sent, from. Sir, your most humble servant.Answer.Mr Mason,—I have received your letter, andhope you will be as good as your word at the ex¬piration of the time you have fixed. I would byno means wish to distress any honest man. I hopeI shall not meet wdth the worse usage for thusshowing my tenderness. Lenity abused, even ingenerous tempers, provokes returns, which somepeople would call severe, but should not be deemedsuch if just. I am, &c.Apology to a Person wanting money.Sir,—I am exceedingly sorrow to hear you areso embarrassed particularly as it is not in my powerto give you any assistance ; my circumstances beingalmost as bad as yours. I am. Sir, your humbleservant.From one Friend to another in Distress.Dear Sir,—The great losses you have sustainedby the failure of Mr Ross, have caused me muchuneasiness. I hope you behave under it like theman of prudence you have always shown yourself.As one who knows how liable all men are to mis-17fortunes, I think it is incumhent, on this occasionnot to console you by word; only, but with thespirit and cheerfulness of a sincere friend, to offer| you my service, to answer any present demand, sofar as two hundred pounds will go, which you shallfreely have the use of for a twelve-month, or moreif your affairs require it; and I will even strain apoint, rather than not oblige you, if more be neces¬sary to your present situation. You will do megreat pleasure in accepting this offer as freely as itis kindly meant, by,—Dear Sir, your’s most faith¬fullyAnswer13Ty dear Friend,—The grateful sense I have ofyour kindness will never be erased from my mind.This is, indeed, an instance of true friendship ! Iaccept most thankfully of some part of your gei er-ons offer, and I will give you my bond, payabl; ina year, for one hundred pounds, which is at presentall I have occasion for; and if I did not know 1could then, if not before, answer your goodness; asit deserves, I would not accept of the favour. rJ hisloss is very heavy and affecting to me, as you maysuppose; yet your generous friendship is no smallcomfort to me in it; so good a friend is capabh ofmaking any calamity light. I am, dear Sir, yourfaithful and obliged servant.Refused to lend Money.Sir,—I am exceedingly sorry that your requestcomes to me at a time, when I am so pressed bymy own affairs, that 1 cannot, with any convenience,comply with it. On any future opportunity, when1 may have money to spare. I shall be ready tooblige you. 1 hope, Sir, you will therefore excuse,«Your most humble servant.To a Person wanting to harrow Money.Sir—While I was out of town, I find you did |me the favour of inquiring tvvo or three times for |me; and among my letters 1 found one from youdesiring the loan of fifty guineas. You must cer¬tainly have mistaken me or yourself very much, to 1think we were enough known to each other for sucha transaction. I was twice in your company ! Iwas delighted with your conversation, and you seem¬ed as much pleased with mine. Should I answerthe demands of every new acquaintance, I shouldsoon want power to oblige my old friends, and evento serve myself. Surely, Sir, a gentleman of yourmerit cannot be so little beloved, as to be forced toseek new acquaintance, audio have no better friendthat one of yesterday. But be this as it may, itdoes not at all suit my convenience to comply withyou request, and therefore I must beg of you toexci se, Your’s &c.A Creditor to a Debtor.11 is not of my power to give you ajiy furtherind ilgence, seeing that the money has been longdut . and I am at present in great want of it; if,the efore, you will not settle your bill by fair means,you shall shortly he obliged by legal steps. I am,Sir, your’s &c.Answer.Sir,—When it is at present out of my power todischarge the debt I have contracted with you, Ihope you will consider, that making me a prisonerwill only add cost to’lbe bill, and render it, ofcourse, moie impracticable. If bereft of my liber-ty. I shall, consequently, be deprived of all meanaof either doing for myself or others. Your furtherindulgence will, in the end, he better for yourself,and add to the obligation of your humble servant,LETTERS ON FRIENDSHIP.Dr Johnson, to the Right Hon, the Earl of Ches¬terfield,My Lord,1 have been lately informed by the proprietor of theWorld, that two papers in which my Dictionary isrecommended to the public, were written by yourlordship. To be so distinguished is an honour,which, being very little accustomed to favours fromthe great, I know not well how to receive, or inwhat terms acknowdedge. When, upon some slightencouragement, I first visited your lordship, I wasoverpowered like the rest of mankind, by the en¬chantment of your address ; and could not forbearto wish that I might boast myself le vainqueur davainqueur do la terre ;—that I might obtain that re¬gard for which I saw the world contending ; but Ifound my attendance so little encouraged, thatneither pride nor modesty would suffer me to con¬tinue it. When I had once addressed your lord-ship in public, I had exhausted all the art of pleas¬ing which a retired and uncourtly scholar can poss¬ess. I had done all that I could; and no man iswell pleased to have his all neglected, be it ever solittle.Seven years my lord, have now passed, since Iwaited in your outward rooms, or was repulsed fromyour door; during which time I have been pushing20on my work through difficulties, of which it is use¬less to complain, and have brought it at last to theverge of publication, without one act of assistance,one word of encouragement, or one smile of favour.Such treatment I did not expect for I never had apatron beforeThe shepherd in Virgil grew at last acquaintedwith love, and found him a native of the rocks.Is not a patron, my lord, one who looks with un¬concern on a man struggling for life in the water,and when he has reached ground, encumbers himwith help ? The notice which you have been pleas¬ed to take of my labours had it been early, had beenkind, but it has been delayed till I am indifferent,and cannot enjoy it; till I am solitary, and cannotimpart it; till I am known, and do not want it. Ihope it is no very cynical asperity not to confessobligations where no benefit has been received, orto be unwilling that the public should consider meas owing that to a patron, which providence has en¬abled me to do for myself.Having carried on my work thus far with so littleobligation to any favourer of learning, I shall notbe disappointed though I should conclude it, if lessbe possible, wdth less; for I have been long waken¬ed from that dream of hope, in which I once boast¬ed myself with so much exultation, my lord, yourlordship’s most obedient servant.SAM. JOHNSON.Dr Cotton to Dr Doddridge,Dear and Honoured Sir,I am very much obliged to you for yourlate tenderinstances of condescension and friendship. I he21comfort and advice, which you most kindly admin¬ister, are extremely acceptable, and I heartily prayGod to give them their due weight. For my ownpart, I am, and have long beeen, abundantly per¬suaded, that no system, hut that of Christianity isable to sustain the soul amidst all the diihcultiesand distresses of life. The consolations of philo¬sophy only are specious trifles, at best all cold andimpotent applications indeed to the bleeding heart IBut the religion of Jesus, like its gracious and be¬nevolent Author, is an inexhaustible source of com¬fort in this world, and gives us the hopes of ever¬lasting enjoyment in the next.I presume humbly to hope, that the SupremeBeing will support me under my affliction; and Imost earnestly entreat, that he will sanctify mysorrows to every gracious and good purpose. Whatthe mind feels upon a painful divorce, none canadequately know, hut they who have had the hitterexperience of this sad solemnity. However deli¬cate and worthy minds will readily point to them¬selves something utterahly soft and moving uponthe separation of two hearts, whose only division waslodgment in two breasts.I am extremely indebted to your lady, for her kindsympathy with me in my sorrows, and the only re¬turn that I can make, either to herself or her con¬sort, is my hearty prayer, that the dissolution oitheir happy union may be at a very distant period.I am, with the highest esteem. Dear Sir, yours,&o.22COURTSHIP AND MARRIAGE).A Gentleman to a Lady,Madam,—Those only who have suffered theiacan tell the unhappy moments of hesitative uncer¬tainty, which attend the formation of a resolutionto declare the sentiments of affection ; I, who havefelt their greatest and most acute torments, couldnot, previous to my experience, have formed theremotest idea of their severity. Every one of thosequalities in you which claim my admiration, in¬creased my diffidence, hy showing the great risk Irun, in venturing, perhaps before my affectionateassiduities have made the desired impression onyour mind, to make a declaration of the ardent pas¬sion I have long since felt for you.My family and connections are so wTell known toyou, that I need say nothing of them ; if I am dis¬appointed of the place I hope to hold in your affec¬tions, I trust this step wrill not draw on me the riskof loosing the friendshipof yourself and family, whichI value so highly, that an object less ardently de¬sired, or really estimable, could not induce me totake a step hy which it should he in any mannerhazarded. I am. Madam, your affectionate admirerand sincere friend,AnswerSir,—I take the earliest opportunity of acknowledging the receipt of your letter, and the obliga¬tions 1 feel to you for the sentiments expressed init; and assure you, that whatever may he the senii-23ments of friendship I feel, from a long acquaintance,will not he in any manner alteredThere are many points besides mere personal re~gard to be considered ; these I must refer to the su¬perior knowledge of my father and brother ; and ifthe result of their enquiries is such as my presenti¬ments suggest, I have no doubt my happiness willbe attended to by a permission to decide for myself.At all events, I shall never cease to feel obligedby a preference in itself sufficiently flattering, andrendered still more so by the handsome manner inwhich it is expressed ; and I hope if my parentsshould see cause to decline the proposed favour ofyour alliance, it will not produce such a disunionbetween our families, as to deprive us of friendswho possess a great portion of our esteem and re¬gard. I am, Sir, your obliged and sincere f iend,and humble servant.Sir Richard Steel to his Wife.My dear Wife,—Before this short absence fromyou, I did not know that I loved you so much asI really do; though at the same time I thought lloved you as much as possible. I am under greatapprehensions lest you should have any uneasinesswhilst 1 am defrauded of my share in it, and can¬not think of tasting any pleasure that you do notpartake with me. Pray, my dear, be careful ofyour health, if for no other reason but because youknow I could not out-live you. It is natural inabsence to make professions of an inviolable con¬stancy; but towards so much merit it is hardly avirtue, especially when it is but a hare return to2 Llibal of wKidi you have gtvtn ms such coutimu clproofs ever since our first acquaintance. 1 am, 8rc.A TVit to Jus MistressMadam,-—I take the liberty of assuring you, thatyou must either pull out your eyes, or I.must pullout mine—-that’s a fact. You must cither not beeo handsome, or I must he blind—that’s another.Though my passion he as violent as any lover’s needhe, I hope you will not expect that I should eitherhang or drown myself; for, believe me. Madam, 1shall do neither. I should certainly betray greatwant of sense, and little knowledge of your meritif I was inclined to leave the world while you werein it. To deal sincerly with you, Madam, I choosethe infinite happiness of being with you, before theglory of dying for you; besides, I entertain such agood opinion of your sense, as to believe you prefera living lover to a dead one ; the lips that are warm,and ready to imprint a thousand sweet kisses totfecse that are cold, and closed for ever ! hut, Mad¬am, if I must die, pray kill me with your kindness,not with your cruelty: I had much rather expireupon your bosom than at your feet. Should youhe tenderly enclined to give me a death of this sort,I am ready to receive it immediately, on any groundin the three kingdoms; appoint but your place andtime, and I will not fail to meet my murderer.Your’s for ever.rmis.