THE LIFE AO ADVENTURESROBIN HOODGLASGOW:PRINTED EOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1855.URjpjlOF SC0TLAK8NEW AND IMPROVED SERIES.Eo. 34.  sr*THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OFROBIN HOOD.Our hevo was born in Nottinghamshire, where the familyhad a large mansion. His father, the Earl of Huntingdon,was head ranger of the north of England; his mother was ofa noble family, being the daughter of Richard, Earl of War¬wick, and was related to a great many respectable families;among which was the. uncle of our hero, Squire Gamewell,'of Gamewell Hail, in Yorkshire, and considered a very notedsportsman.When our hero had attained his fourteenth year, he wassent by his mother on a visit to Gamewell Hall. His uncle,who had no children, wishing to do honour to his nephew,invited the neighbouring sportsmen to his house; and theywere not a little surprised to find that this youth could drawthe long bow’, and engaged in the boar and stag hunts withthe greatest intrepidity. Old Gamewell, proud of his nephew,found no difficulty in persuading him to hx his residence withhim, with an assurance at his death to succeed to his estates.These preliminaries settled, our hero next made choice of acompanion in the person of Little John, a servant of hisuncle’s, and one who was considered the best sportsman in thewhole country.These two companions seldom quitted each other; thesports of the field formed their only amusement; and formany years they lived a life devoid of care, anxiety, or sorrow.Robin had gone to pay his father a visit, when the Squirebeing suddenly taken ill, a messenger was despatched tohasten 'him home; but the dangerous state of his mother’shealth prevented him from leaving her till a late hour on thefollowing day. In the meantime, the Squire finding himselfdying, sent for a monk, in order that he might make his peacewith Heaven, and who prevailed on the dying man to sign adeed, conveying all he had to the church, as the only meansof saving his soul. When Robin arrived at the Hall, hisuncle was dead, and the monks, who had taken possession qfthe house, shut the doors against him, and would give himnothing, which was a sad reverse to poor Robftf, for he had4been brought up as a gentleman without learning any busi¬ness, and was unable to gain a livelihood. On turning fromthe Hall, he found Little John waiting for him, and deter¬mined to unite their fortunes, they resolved to go to Sher¬wood Forest, and support themselves by their bows.Although the forest abounded with deer, Robin found thatother comforts were necessary, which could not be procuredwithout money; and thinking that the monks who had de¬prived him of his estate, ought to supply this, he laid everypriest under contribution.The fame of Robin Hood and the merry life he led, soondrew a number of young men to join his band, and increasedit to above one hundred of the bravest fellows in the kingdom,whom he clothed in green. When the monks, from being sooften plundered, came loss in the way, Robin’s men wereobliged to extend their depredations to other parts of thecountry. It was only to priests, and the niggardly rich, thatRobin Hood was an enemy; for he held the person and pro¬perty of every woman sacred, and always took the part of theweak and injured. By the poor people he was adored, (orhe generously supplied their wants from his own private purse.The first adventure of our hero, who now assumed thename of Robin Hood, was performed by him and fifteen moreon the Bishop of Carlisle, with a guard of fifteen men, whomthey met on the south side of Ferrybridge, in Yorkshire.Having dispersed his retinue, they took from the Bishop eighthundred marks; and then placing him on his horse with hisface to the tail, obliged him in that condition to ride to Lou¬don.One day,*Robin Hood, meeting with a butcher going tomarket to sell his meat, bought his whole cargo, and his mare6with it, which came together to about twenty pounds. Withthese Robin Hood immediately goes to the market and sellshis bargains presently, making such good penny-worths, thatnil the people thought he had stole it. Being now convertedinto money, he puts into an inn at Nottingham, and treatedall the customers to the value of live pounds; which comingto the sheriff of the county’s ears, who was at the inn at thesame time, and taking him to he some prodigal spark of whomhe might make a penny, intrudes into his company; andaftetsome short discourse, asked him if he had any more meat tosell? “Not ready dressed,” said Robin Hood, “but I havetwo or three hundred head of cattle at home, and a hundredacres of land to keep them on. which if you will buy, I’ll sellyou them a penny-worth.” The sheriff snapt at the proffer,,and took four hundred pounds in gold with him.Away they rode, and ho was much surprised at themelancholy place that Robin Hood had brought him to, butit was too late; for Robin Hood winding his horn, presentlycame Little John with iifty of bis companions, who werecommanded by their captain, Robin Hood, to take the sheriffto dinner with them, assuring them he had money enough topay his share. Accordingly, they got a collation ready lorthe sheriff, and alter dinner was ov^r, led him into the forest,and there took all his gold away from him.A gentleman, as he was riding from Coventry to London,met with Robin Hood, and taking him to be an honestgentleman, desired him to turn back, and go some other way,or else he would certainly meet with some highwaymen andbe robbed, for he had narrowly escaped them himself; and soadvised .him if he had any charge about him, not to venturethat way. “I have no great charge about me, Sir,” said6Eobin Hood; “ however, I’ll take your advice, for fear of theworst.” So, as they were riding along, Eobin Hood said,v“ Perhaps we may meet with some rogues of the gang by theway, for this is an ugly robbing road; therefore I’ll securethis little I have, which is but ten guineas, by putting it intomy mouth.”Now the gentleman, not in the least suspecting him to beof that profession, told him, that in case he should be setupon, he had secured his gold in the feet of his stockings,which he said was no small quantity, and that he had receivedit that day of his tenants for rent. Discoursing thus together,they had not gone above half a mile further before they cameto a very bye place, where Eobin Hood bid the gentlemanstand and deliver his money. The gentleman was in greatsurprise, and told him he took him for a very honest andworthy person. However, there was no remedy for the lossof his money, which was about four score and ten marks. SoKobip Hood left the gentleman, cursing his folly for tellinghim where he had hid his money.Another time Eobin had been riding for his pleasure, andas he was returning home in the evening very well mounted,coming near Turton Bridge, in Yorkshire, he perceived agentleman in his gardens, which indeed were very extensive,Kobin rode to the gardener, and inquired of him whether aa gentleman, whose curiosity had led him to see those famousgardens, might not have the liberty of walking in them ?The gardener knowing his master was very willing that anyperson appearing in good fashion might walk therein, gavehim admittance, llobin, alighting, gave the gardener hishorse to hold; and seeing the gentleman in the walks, Kobinpaid his respects to him in a submissive manner, at the sametime begging he would pardon his presumption for cominginto his gardens when his worship was recreating himself.The gentleman told him he was very welcome, and invitedhim to see his wilderness; where, sitting down in an arbour,they began to talk very merrily together ; and, at the end oftheir discourse, Kobin told him that he had heard he was avery charitable gentlemen, and that he must make bold withhim to borrow what money he had about him, for he had butlittle himself, and a long way to travel.At these words the gentleman began to startle, and wasvery much surprised at his impudence. But Kobin told himhe was a dead man if he made any resistance. Then he tiedhim to a tree, and went away with a large booty; but he badethe gentleman be of good cheer, for he would send onepresently to release him. And, accordingly, going to theYgardener, who held his horse all this while, gave him a nine-penny piece, saying, “Honest friend, your master wants tospeak with you.” Then mounting, he rode off the grounds,whilst the gardener made haste to his master, and was verymuch surprised to find him hound in that manner; but heimmediately loosed him, and the gentleman returned himthanks for sending a rogue to rob him in his gardens.One day, as Robin was in search of adventures near theskirts of the forest, he met a priest well mounted, with a fatbuck across his saddle, and disguised in a countryman's frock.Doing in want of a horse, he resolved to rob the parson, andlaying hold of the bridle, ordered him to dismount; but thepriest struck a furious blow at Robin with the butt-end of hiswhip, which he received on his staff, and soon brought thepriest to the ground.After robbing the parson of his money and horse, andrequesting to be remembered in his prayers, Robin rode offfor Stratford. On the road he fell in with a rich countrydealer going to purchase goods at Lancaster, with whom hesoon got acquainted, and they travelled together; but themerchant was so close that Robin could make nothing of him.On reaching Coventry, where they dined together, and dranksome good wine and ale, Robin told his fellow-traveller, thatas the roads they had to travel were so dangerous, the safestway was to conceal their money in their boots, and on seeingRobin deposit a bag of gold, the merchant did the same.They again continued their journey until they came to a partof the road which crossed two ways, where Robin pulled offthe merchant’s boots, in which he got three hundred piecesof gold, and rode oft’ for Sherwood Forest.Our adventurer was a man of great courage, and a bold,8daring, ami resolute temper ; and being endowed with a great'!deal of love and charity for the poor, insomuch that he would irelieve any poor families in distress, was, on the contrary, a’;mortal enemy to misers and the engrossers of corn: for he !would often take from these to relieve the necessitous. One ;time being at Wantage, a great market for corn, he happened ito fall into a person’s company at an inn there, whom he-.;knew to be a great engrosser of corn, and who had bought 1as much corn in the market as cost fourscore marks, whichRobin bought of him again, and paid him one hundred marksready money for it.The corn he sent immediately to he distributed among the 1poor of the country. Robin understanding which way bis 1corn merchant went, was soon at his heels, and demandedhis money again, and what he had besides. The countrymanwas in great surprise, shaking and trembling very much, ■asking him whether he thought it was justice to take from .him his money and his goods too? Says Robin, “Why,have not I, you villain, paid you for your corn honestly, andcan you assume the impudence to talk of justice when thereis none in the world acts more unjustly than an engrosser ofcorn ? Sirrah, there is no vermin in the land like you, whoslander both heaven and earth with pretended dearths, whenthere is no scarcity at all; so talk no more of your justiceand honesty, hut immediately deliver your money, or I shallcrack your crown for you.” Upon which he delivered him abag, in which Robin found his own money, and as muchmore; so away he went with a great deal of satisfaction.One fine summer day, when the merry bowmen were en¬joying their sports, and trying each other’s prowess, Robin,elated with his own superiority, said, “ My friends, do youknow any man that can match me at wrestling, playing thequarter-staff, or killing a deer?” Will Scarlet, who boreRobin a kind of grudge, replied, “I have heard of a friar inFountain Abbey, who will draw a bow, wrestle, or handle aquarter-staff, with any man alive.” “Say you so,” saidRobin, “I shall soon have proof of that;” and taking hisbow and quarter-staff with him, went to the neighbourhoodof the Abbey, where he saw a tail brawny friar walking by‘the river-side, and instantly knew him to be the man liewanted. Robin tied Ills horse to a tree, and coming up tothe friar, said, “ Carry me over this river, thou brawny friar,or T. will crack thy crown.” The friar returned no answer, hutimmediately took Robin upon his hack, and carried him tothe other side without speaking a single word. Robin leapedoff the friar's back and pretended to be going away; but theofnar stopped him, saying, “ Carry me hack again, tliou finefellow, or it'shall breed thee pain.” Robin took the friar onhis back: and having carried him across the water he theninsisted on the monk taking him over again, or he wouldbreak his bones. The friar took Robin on his back, but oncoming to the middle of the water, he threw him in, saying,•• Row. my fine fellow, take your choice whether thou wiltsink or swim.” Robin, however, got to land as soon as thefriar; and challenged him to wrestle, shoot, and to a bout atquarter-staff; hut at none of these could he beat the friar,nor the friar him. Robin was so well pleased with the friarthat he wanted him to join the merry men; but the friarwould not consent, and even tried to persuade Robin to turnmonk; so they shook hands and parted good friends.Robin Hood, soon after, going by himself into a lone housea little out of the road, found a poor old woman, weepingvery bitterly. He desired her to acquaint him with the causeof her sorrow; to which she answered, that she was a widow,and being somewhat indebted to her landlord, expected himevery moment to come and seize what few goods she had,which would he her utter ruin. Robin Hood bade her restherself contented, and he would make things easy; so pullingoff his rich laced clothes, and putting on an old coat, whichthe old woman lent him, and having likewise secured hishorse in an old barn, in a little time came the old miserlylandlord, and demanded his rent; upon this Robin Hood risesout of the chimney corner with a short stick in his hand, andsays, “I understand, Sir, that my sister here, poor woman!is behind hand for rent, and that you design to seize hergoods ; but, she being a desolate widow, and having nothingto satisfy vou at present, I hope vou will take so much pity210and compassion as not to be too Revere witn hex: pray, Sir,let me persuade you to have a little forbearance.” To whichthe landlord replied, “I want n^r rent, and if I am not paidnow, I’ll seize her goods, and turn her out.” When KobinHood found that no entreaties would prevail, he pulled aleathern bag out of his pocket, and said, “Come, let’s see areceipt in full, and I’ll pay it:” so accordingly a receipt wasgiven, and the rent paid. Then the landlord being goingaway, Robin Hood said, “’Tis drawing towards night, Sir,and there’s great robbing abroad, therefore I would adviseyou to stay here till to morrow morning, and take the daybefore you.” “No, no,” replied the landlord, “I’ll go homenow, I shall teach seven miles before it is dark.” “Pray,Sir,’’ said Robin, to him again, “let me persuade you to tarryhere, for there’s great robbing abroad.” '‘I don’t care,”answered the landlord, “ I will go home now; besides, I don’tfear being robbed by any one man, let him be what he will.”So taking his horse, away he rode, and Robin Hood afterhim, dressed then in his tine clothes, and meeting him at apond where he knew he must pass by, bid him stand andfight, or deliver his money; which so terrified him, that hedelivered all the money he had received for rent, and as muchmore to it.As Robin was going one morning to Nottingham, he metwith a tinker, and civilly asked him what news? “Why,”replied the tinker, “I hear no other news than that of takingRobin Hood, and I have a warrant in my pocket for appre¬hending him; so if you can tell me where he is, I’ll rewardyou.” “Let me see the warrant,” says Robin Hood, “andI’ll go with ybu, and take him this night, for I know a housethat he uses in Nottingham.” “No (answered the tinker,)I’ll let no man see my warrant.”So Robin then asked him to go to Nottingham, where hesaid he was sure to meet with Robin Hood. They soonreached Nottingham, where they went to an inn, and drankso plentifully, that the tinker fell asleep: then Robin tookaway the tinker’s money, and the king’s warrant, and lefthim the reckoning to pay.Soon after this, Robin disguised himself in a friar’s habit,and had not gone far before he met a couple of priests; he,making a pitiful moan to them, begged their charity, andthat they would relieve one of their own function for theVirgin Mary’s sake. “That we would do,” said they “butwe have lately met with a gang of villains who robbed us ofall our money, and left us nothing to relieve ourselves.”“ I am afraid,” said Robin, “ you are so addicted to lying, that11an honest man cannot take your word; therefore let us all godown on our knees, and pray to the Virgin Mary to sendus some money to defray our charges.” Upon which theyoffered to run away; but Robin soon put an end to their career,and made them go to prayers.They had not been long at their supplications, before Robinbid one of the priests feel in his pockets what the VirginMary had sent! upon which they both put their hands intheir pockets, and pulled out nothing. Robin, upon this,fell into a great passion, and told them he believed that theywere nothing but a parcel of lying deceitful knaves, to makehim believe the Virgin had sent them nothing. So Robinsearched their pockets, and found five hundred pieces of gold.When he saw this glorious sight, he could not forbear callingthem lying and deceitful knaves. Soon after they rose up togo, but Robin stopped them, and made them take an oathnever to tell lies to a friar again. After which he returned toSherwood, where he made all his companions merry.Being another time at Wigton, in Yorkshire, and hearinghow barbarously the ostlers would cheat the horses of theirprovender, he privately went into the stable, and hid himselfunder the manger. A little time after came the ostler, underthe pretence of feeding Robin Hood’s horse: no sooner hadhe put the oats and beans into the manger, and laid down hissieve, but he sweeps them all into a canvas bag fixed underone corner of the manger, and away he went.After dinner, Robin Hood asked the ostler, “ What cornhe had given his horse?” He said he had given him whatcorn he ordered him, and the gentleman who had dined withhim saw him bring it through the kitchen. To which RobinHood answered, “ Don’t tell me a lie, for I shall ask my horsepresently; fetch him hither, and you will soon see whetherthe ostler has done him justice or not.” Accordingly thehorse was fetched, and Robin Hood striking him on the belly,he laid his mouth to his master’s ear. “Look you therenow,” said Robin Hood, “did not I tell you that the ostlerhad cheated him of his corn !” “Why,” said the landlord,“what does he say?” “Say,” quoth Robin Hood; “why,he says your ostler has flung all the corn into a bag placed atone corner of the manger.” Upon which the landlord andhis guests went into the stable, and searching narrowly aboutthe manger, found the bag of corn at one end of it; for whichcruel villany he immediately turned his ostler away.Robin Hood another time was riding towards London, andbeing on Dunsmore Heath, met with William Longchamp,who was then Bishop of Ely, with a small retinue of about12four or five in mimlier. Immediately he rode up to one ofthe bishop’s servants, whom he pretended to know; “Ah,Tom,” said he, “I am glad, with all my heart, that I amcome uj) with you, for there’s nothing but robbing, go whereone will; I have a great charge of money about me myself,but since I have the good luck to get up with these honestgentlemen, I am not in fear of losing it.”This discourse which Robin Hood had with the man, madehis lordship and his retinue think him to be an honest man,and they held a great deal of chat with him on the road, tillat last an opportunity favouring his intention, says he to thebishop’s attendants, “I am very dry; and since you arepleased to give me protection from danger as far as I shall goyour way, I’ll ride before, and see if I can get any good liquorto treat you for your civility.” Robin Hood set spurs to hishorse, and rode away; when, being out of sight, he quicklytied his horse to a tree in a thick wood, which was on oneside of the road, through which the bishop was to pass; thenreturning back to the company, says, “ O gentlemen! I amruined and undone; for in yonder lane, meeting with tworogues, they have taken about forty marks from me: but thevillains being but indifferently mounted, I don’t doubt butthat if you were to pursue them, you’d soon take them.”The bishop, pitying Robin Hood’s loss, said to his servants,“Let the poor fellow show you which way the rogues took,and go all of you, and take them if possible.” They set oftjtaking Robin Hood along with them: and when they cameinto a narrow lane, he gave them the necessary directions forpursuing the highwaymen.But Robin Hood’s business was with the Bishop, and backhe goes, and says to him. “Sir, my time is but short, there¬fore you must deliver what money you have, or expect theworst of usage.” The bishop, not knowing how to help him¬self, was forced to give him two hundred and fifty marks, andthen Robin Hood retired to the wood, there mounted hishorse, and rode off with his prize. Soon after, the bishop,being met by his servants, they told him they could not hearof the rogues, high nor low. “Ah!” answered the bishop,“ the greatest rogue has been with me, for he that pretendedto be robbed of forty marks, hath just now made up the lossby robbing mo of sixty times the money.It was customary for our adventurer to go frequently indisguise: at one time he pulled off his fine clothes, anddressed himself like an old shoemaker, and put an old leatherapron about him, the better to colour his being one of thecraft. In this disguise he set out to travel, and being pretty13liberal in his expenses, the landlord provided him a goodlodging. The house was full of guests, and a friar coming invery late, they had no lodgings for him ; the friar, ratherthan go any further, chose to accept a bedfellow; but therewas none that wished to be disturbed at that time of night,but Robin (whom they took for a shoemaker) was well enoughpleased to have such a bedfellow.Matters being thus accommodated, and the friar in bed, hesoon fell fast asleep, and slept very heartily; but Robinhaving got a pretty good nap before, had no mind to sleepany more that night, but to lie awake, and meditate mischief,for he never loved any of that function, so he studied how heshould change breeches with the friar; and getting up atdawn of day, he put on not only the friar’s breeches, but alsohis canonical garments. Robin finding the sacred habilimentsfitted him very well; and being thus rigged, down stairs hegoes, and calls the ostler, bidding him bring his boots, andmake ready his horse. The ostler, not in the least mistrust¬ing but that it was really the friar, brought him his boots,and asked him what corn his horse might have? “Half apeck of oats,” says Robin; which was given him. Robincalled for the reckoning, and was answered he paid all lastnight, but for his horse. The horse having eaten up hiscorn, he mounted with all the expedition imaginable, givingthe ostler something to drink his health.Away he rode, as fast as the friar’s horse would carry him.The friar not dreaming what had happened, kept close with¬in the bed; but about seven in the morning he rose out ofhis sleep, and going to bid his bedfellow good morning, soonfbund, not only that the bird was flown, but also that he wasflown away with his feathers, for he saw nothing but a parcelof old clothes. Upon this the friar in great surprise calls forsomebody to come up ; but the servants supposing it was theshoemaker, asked him what ailed him to make such a noise,and bade him be quiet. This vexed the friar, and made himknock the harder; upon which the chamberlain went up, andthreatened to thrash him if he made any more noise. Thefriar not understanding the meaning of this rude treatment,was amazed, and asked where his clothes were; the chamber¬lain replied, “ Where a plague should they be but upon thechair where you lelt them ? Who do you think would med¬dle with your dirty clothes? They arc not of so much worth,that you need be afraid of any body’s stealing them.” “Theman's mad,” replied the friar: “Do you know who youspeak to?” “Yes, I do,” replied the chamberlain, “adrunken shoemaker.” “Why, I am the friar,” said he, “who14came in late last night.” “The plague you are!’5 repliedthe chamberlain ; “I am sure the friar went away at threeo’clock this morning.” With this noise and scuffle, upcomes the landlord of' the inn, and some of the servants, whopresently discovered that this was the person they had mis¬taken for the shoemaker, and found that he had made an ex¬change with the friar; upon which the master of the innfurnished him with a suit of his own clothes, and money tobear his charges through his journey.One morning, as Robin was strolling in the forest, he sawa genteel-looking young man sitting under a tree, who ap¬peared to be very melancholy and dejected. He desired oneof his bowmen to bring the young man to him ; and when hecame, Robin inquired the cause of his sadness. The youngman, taking a ring from his pocket said, “I was to have beenmarried yesterday to a young lady whom I have long courted,and I bought this ring for the occasion, but the Bishop ofHereford, her uncle, has rejected me, and means to give herto an old wealthy knight.” Robin inquired whether theyoung lady had consented to her uncle’s choice or not, andwhen and where the ceremony was to take place. Ajjan-a-dale (for that was the name of the young man,) told him thatthe lady' was forced to comply much against her inclinations,and that the marriage was to take place that, day in theparish chapel, about five miles from the forest. When Robinheard the bishop’s name,who was his great enemy, and the timeand place, he told Allan-a-dalc to put on a cheerful look, andhe would ensure him of getting his mistress. “ If you inclineto join our bowmen,” said Robin, “bring your bride to theforest, and let her live with us; but if you do not like ourmerry life, you are at liberty to carry her wherever you15please.” Allan-a-dale agreed to join the bowmen, as withthem he felt himself sure of protection; and then, seeingthere was no time to lose, Robin disguised himself as a har¬per, and ordered twenty-four of his bowmen and Allan-a-daleto follow him; but proceeded to the church alone, where hefound the bishop putting on his robes, who asked him whathe wanted; Robin told him he was a harper, come to offerhis services at the wedding. On the old knight and the bridemaking their appearance, Robin stepped forward and said,“I cannot allow this marriage to -go on, for the bride musthave her own choice.” Then pulling out his horn, he gavethree blasts, and the bowmen entered the church. “Younglady,” said Robin, “ns you are now free, see if there is anyone here you would choose for your husband.” She nosooner saw Allan-a-dale, than she sprang to him, and said,“ Here is my choice.” Robin requested the Bishop to pro¬ceed ; but as he refused, he pulled off his robes, and put themon Little John, who took the book and went through theceremony very gracefully, Robin giving away the bride. Thebishop and the old knight slunk out of the church, and therest of the party went off to celebrate the wedding at Sher¬wood Fdrest.The Bishop of Hereford was so enraged at the trick playedhim, that he made several excursions to Sherwood Forestwith a party of soldiers, on purpose to take Robin prisoner.One day, as Robin was walking alone in the forest, he heardthe trampling of horses behind him, and looking about, sawthe Bishop, with six of his followers, in pursuit of him. Asthey were only at a short distance behind him, Robin had notime to lose, therefore he ran forward till he reached thecottage of a poor old woman, into which he rushed, and beg-10ged her to save his life. She immediately exchauged clothes'with him, and as the Bishop came in with his men, Robinpassed by them and got clear off. When he came in sight ofhis band, one of the bowmen, who observed him coming,cried out, “A witch, a witch!” and was about to let fly an,arrow at him, when Robin discovered himself. He then toldLittle John to kill a fat deer, as the Bishop of Hereford was todine with them, and taking his bowmen along with him, wentto a particular spot to wait for his guest.• When the Bishop entered the cottage, he seized the oldwoman, who was in Robin’s clothes, and said, “I know youare one of Robin Hood’s gang, therefore take me to wherehe is, and your life shall be saved.” The old woman whohad got her directions from Robin, agreed to take him ; andbeing soon mounted, they rode on to an opening in theForest, where Robin’s bowmen were all drawn up, when theBishop asked, “Who are these?” “I think it is RobinHood, whom you want, and his merry men,” replied she;“but I cannot be certain, for I am only a poor old woman,who changed clothes with him.” The Bishop, after bestow¬ing a hearty malediction on the old woman, was turning toride off; but Robin brought him down from his horse, andiorced him to go and partake of their good cheer. Afterdinner he made the Bishop dance a hornpipe, to the no smalldiversion of the bowmen ; and having eased him of five hun¬dred pounds, as payment of his reckoning, they led him andhis followers to tire high road, where the bowmen gave threecheers, and then returned to the forest.Robin Hood once being at Stratford, he met with a countrydealer travelling into Lancashire to buy goods. Robin andthis rider afterwards got acquainted together on the road.irAt night they put up together at the Horse Shoe Inn atDaventry, where they supped off a quarter of venison and aroasted goose. After supper Robin proposed a game at All-fours, on which they drank several bottles of wine, whenRobin wanted to sound the depth of his pockets, which hewas too close to let him do that night, though he went to bedvery drunk.The next morning they breakfasted together, and agreed totravel towards Coventry, where, at the White Rear, theydined, and afterwards refreshed themselves with the landlord,and some excellent wine and ale. After dinner, Robin toldhis fellow-traveller, that it was a dangerous road they had topass that evening, and therefore thought it advisable toconceal their money in their boots, or some other secureplace about them. The traveller at first refused, but uponseeing Robin put a bag of gold down, he drew out his anddid the same. This revived Robin Hood’s spirits much. Inthis manner they travelled several miles before an opportu¬nity or place presented, entertaining themselves with thevaliant exploits of bold archers and their men.They rode very loving along, the traveller intending thatnight to reach Litchfield, hut when they came to a placecalled Cuckoo’s Corner, which parts the roads, Robin toldhis companion that he was at his journey’s end; he mustinstantly draw his boots off, for there was no time to dispute.Upon which the traveller replied, “ I really thought asmuch, and suspected it from the first hour I came into yourcompany.” However, it was no time to hesitate or regret;Robin took his bag, in which were two hundred pieces ofgold besides some pieces of silver, dismounted him, and tookhis horse. With this booty, and being alone, fearing also his13companions would blame his absence, he made directly forSherwood Forest, riding through Warwickshire disguised asa page..Robin being at an inn near Buckingham, heard great singingand dancing, and found it was a country wake, at which werepresent most of the young men and maids for several milesround about. Robin, pleased at the adventure, put up hishorse, and, as he was drinking in the kitchen, an old richfarmer came in with a hundred marks tied up in a bag underhis arm. Robin’s eyes were more fixed upon the farmer’sbag of money than the young folks dancing, and observing inthe room where they were that there was a chimney with alarge funnel, he went out and communicated his designs tothe ostler, who, for a reward, drest a great mastiff dog in acow’s hide he had in his stable, placing the horns just on hisforehead, when in the height of their jollity, by the help of aladder and a rope, he let him hastily down the chimney intothe room where they were all assembled. Robin had returnedbefore the acting of this scene; the dog howled hideously ashe descended, and rushing among them in that frightful form,turned all into hurry and confusion; and the old farmer,being in a dreadful fright, dropped his hundred marks, andfled for safety; the meantime Robin securing the moneyunder his cloak, immediately took horse and made the bestof his way.By these and similar depredations he became noted, repel¬ling force by force, and art by cunning. The severity of theforest laws, enacted by the Norman kings, made it necessaryfor his followers to keep together. Their numbers increasedto four hundred of the best marksmen in the kingdom, amongwhom was the celebrated George Green, the Pindar of Wake¬field.At one time, -when the finances of the merry men werevery low, they resolved to plunder the rich convent of St.Mary, and to carry otf the image of the Holy Virgin, whichwas of solid silver. Under the disguise of a poor blind min¬strel and his mother, Robin Hood and Little John gainedadmittance to the convent; and, when the nuns and friarshad retired to their cells, opened the gates to their compan¬ions. The alarm soon spread through the convent, and everyone flew' to the jhapcl for protection; but the bowmenhaving already entered the place, were proceeding to spoil it lof what was most valuable, ajrd to take down the silver ;image, when one of the nuns cried out, “Oh! mercy; willthey take away the gift of our queen, even while she is with¬in our walls?” On hearing this, Robin said, “My brave19comrades, desist, and let not disloyalty be ranked among ourerrors, this house and all within^t are rendered sacred by thepresence of Queen Eleanor!” The bowmen instantly obeyedtheir leader; and as they quitted the convent, Kobin told thenuns to bless the queen for preserving their image, whichotherwise would have bought wine to the Sherwood venison.When the queen heard of the behaviour of Robin Hood,and that his respect for her alone had saved the convent frombeing plundered, she was so much pleased, that she deter¬mined to be a friend to him and his men.Soon after King Richard’s return from Palestine, be pro¬claimed a grand shooting match to take place in the palacegrounds, and prizes were to be awarded to the best marks¬men. Queen Eleanor, thinking this a favourable opportunityto execute her design in favour of Robin Hood, told the kingthat she could bring one hundred men, who would beat themost skilful of his archers. The king requested her to bringforward her champions, and if they were victorious, he wouldnot only bestow on them the prizes but grant her any boonshe asked. The queen immediately despatched the followingmessage to Robin Hood:—“Queen Eleanor greets you well,requesting that you will take one hundred of your bowmenwith you, and hasten to London : for a great match at thebow is to take place there, and she has chosen you and yourmen to be her champions.”On the appointed day, in presence of the whole court, theking’s archers, who were thought to be the best in the king¬dom, ranged themselves on one side; while the queen’schampions, all clad in green, with Robin Hood at their head,took their station on the other; but the queen was the onlyperson there who knew them. After sounding the trumpets,20King Richard announced the prizes which were to be be¬stowed on the best tnarksften, and the courtiers began tooffer bets of six to one in favour of the king’s men; but no!one would bet against them. “Will no knight venture hismoney on my side?” said the queen. “Come, Sir Robert;Lee, you must try your fortune;” but the knight begged tobe excused, as there was no chance of success. The queen.then asked the. Bishop of Hereford, Robin Hood’s old foe; 1but he swore by his silver mitre, that he would not bet one;penny. “If you won’t bet on the queen’s side, how muchwill you venture on the king’s?” said Robin. “All the]gold I have with me, which is five hundred pounds,” repliedthe bishop, and he laid the money on the ground. Robinimmediately produced a bag of the same value, and threw itdown upon the green.Before the bowmen began, Queen Eleanor craved this boonfrom the king—that he should not be angry with any of herarchers; but that they should be free to stay at court duringthe match, and afterwards to have forty days to retire towhere they pleased. King Richard agreed to this; and thenordered the targets to bo placed. The king's archers lodgedabout forty arrows in the target; but Robin’s bowmen, to theastonishment of all the court, placed all their arrows in themark.The captain of the king’s archers challenged Robin to shootthree arrows with him for one hundred pounds; to whichRobin agreed, on condition that be would shoot one at themark ho produced. A fresh target w-as set up, and the captain,mnidsfr thunders of applause, fixed his three arrows in the .mark, and one of them in the very centre of the target; butRobin, with seeming carelessness, let fly his first arrow,which split the centre one to shivers, and stuck in its place.Robin then caused two willow wands to be stuck iu theground at double distance, observing, that this was the kindof mark he was accustomed to, and challenged all the king’sarchers to a trial; but as none of them durst venture afterwhat they had seen, Robin, with the remaining twm arrows,clove both the wands. The king’s bowmen wispered to eachother, that he must be the devil, for there never was sucharchery seen before; but the Bishop of Hereford said to theking, “I know’ now who they are; that is Robin Hood, andthese fellows are his band.” The king would not have allowedthem to depart; but as bis word had been already given fortheir security, he made a noble feast, bestowed on them theprizes, and sent them away with honour.King Richard often thought of the wonderful dexterity21shown by Robin Hood ami his baud, and having beard ofmany of their generous actions, he regretted that they wereoutlaws, who, by plundering those whom ho was bound toprotect, were therefore enemies to the state. Sometimes howould exclaim, “If I could make these outlaws faithful sub¬jects, what a pride they would be to my court!”One da3r Queen Eleanor entered, and craved the boon hebad promised to grant if her champions were victorious, “Mydear Richard,” said she, “ the boon I ask, is the free pardonof Robin Hood and his men, who will, I am certain, provethemselves worthy of your clemency, and be a valuable ac¬quisition to your crown.” “My dear mother,” said he, ‘‘Ican refuse you nothing; hut, before I grant your request. Imust see Robin Hood again, in order to discover what bissentiments are; for which purpose I mean to disguise myselfimmediately, and go to Sherwood Forest.”As the queen approved of this. Richard, accompanied bytwelve of his courtiers, all disguised as monks, mounted theirhorses, and proceeded to the Forest. Robin Hood, whoobserved them at a distance, thought it was a whole monas¬tery of friars, and he determined to plunder them. KingRichard, who was taller than the rest, rode foremost, andRohm taking him for the abbot, seized his horse by the bridle,saying, “Abbot, stand, and deliver your money; it was amonk that ruined me, and I have sworn to spare none ofyour fraternity.” “ But we are going on the king’s message,”said Richard. When Robin beard this, he let go the brid'n.saying, “God save him! and confound all bis enemies!”“Thou art cursing thyself,” said the king, “ for thou art arobber, an outlaw, and a traitor.” “Were you not his mes¬senger,” returned Robin, “ I would say yon lied; for I neverinjured the honest and industrious man ; I protect wo¬men and children, and all the poor around me ; it is onlyfrom the miserly rich, and those who live upon the laboursof others, that I take any thing, but as yon are King Richard'sservants, I will not deprive you of a single penny, and alsoe::?usc what you have said.” Robin asked them to partakeof his good cheer before they proceeded on their journey'.This being exactly the thing that the king wished for in orderto sound Robin, he gave a ready' consent, and then said,“Were you not afraid singly to attack thirteen men?” “Iam not afraid often thirteens,” returned Robin; then puttinghis horn to his mouth, he blew a shrill blast, and one hun¬dred and fifty of his bowmen instantly appeared in view.The king was so charmed with the sight, that he could not helpthinking they were much better trained than his own men.22After dinner, the pretended monks again mounted theirhorses, and were preparing to take their leave of the bow¬men, when the king said to Robin Hood, “Now, my bravefellow, if I were to procure your pardon and that of yourmen, would you turn faithful and useful subjects?” Thisbeing the first wish of Robin’s heart, and for some time pastalways uppermost in his thoughts, he replied, “Abbot, I art)tired of this kind of life; and though some may praise ourbold adventures and generous actions, yet I now hate everything connected with it. Were king Richard, who is a gal¬lant soldier and a generous prince, to pardon our offences,and take us into favour, he would never have reason to re¬pent his clemency, for he would find us the most loyal andpeaceful of his subjects.”“Behold your king!” said Richard, opening a part of theimonk’s cloak, which discovered the star and other insignia*Robin and his bowmen were instantly on their knees before!him. “Rise up, my brave fellows, your leader is now Earlof Huntingdon, which is his just right, from being next kcicito the late earl. I restore you again to society, by freely' ]pardoning all your past offences; and I expect from your !future good behaviour, and the services which you are ableto render me by your skill and bravery, if you are inclined,; Inever to have cause to repent of my kindness.”Robin Hood, now Earl of Huntingdon, and his bowmen, [immediately swore allegiance to the king; and by their good iconduct afterwards, Richard was induced to place them nearhis own person as a body guard.It is evident none but the rich and considerable were 1objects of Robin Hood’s depredations; for so far from |plundering the poor, he did them all the good that lay in his |23power. Of the luxury of the priests of his time he tookparticular notice, but never abused those he robbed, normolested any woman. The priests of Bridlington, in York¬shire, and Hubert, Archbishop of Canterbury, were hisgreatest enemies ; for the latter set a price on his head, andseveral stratagems were set to catch him, but in vain. Thebowmen in his retinue were all true men and honest, theterror of the rich and the protector of the poor, with whomhe often associated.Time passed on. King Eicbard died, and was succeeded byPrince John, under whose sovereignty the miseries of thepeople daily increased. Robin Hood subsequently followedKing John as far as Northumberland, when the former wason his way to Edinburgh. His name got well known in thearmy; and whatever portion of the king’s men fell in withRobin’s, they were slain to a man. John quitted the northfor Dover, and left commands for several bands of troops,stationed at various places, to follow and join him. Thosewhich had to pass through Derbyshire, Yorkshire, or Lincoln¬shire, were mostly intercepted, and but few escaped to tellthat Robin Hood had been among them.Robin had now reached his fifty-tilth year; he began tofeel dull and listless, and a presentiment was upon him thathis time was at hand. An abbey which stood on the bordersof the wood, called Kirkley Abbey, had once received himwhen wounded in an attack upon a band of Normans; theprioress claimed a relationship, and tended him very carefullyuntil he recovered. Little John now advised him to seekher, and there be blooded—a remedy at that time, for alldiseases of both body and mind—so he went, and was receivedwith great seeming welcome. The prioress invited him topartake of refreshment, which, however, he declined, andrequested to be bled forthwith.She then showed him into a small upper room, and laid himupon a couch, while she opened a vein in his arm; she thentook an enormous quantity of blood from him ; so much, thathe refused to allow her to take any more—she smiled, boundup his arm, and left the room, carefully locking the doorafter her—placing the key in her pocket, she descended thestairs.The prioress, although affecting to be devoted to herMaker, had a most questionable love for a certain knight,who was very frequent in his visits to the abbey; and by dintof working upon her fears, he persuaded this wicked womanto destroy the brave Robin Hood. So when darkness crepton, she stealthily removed the bandage from his arm, carried24tlic bandage away with her, locked the door as befol'e, andthere left him to expire. ,Morning broke; and as the sun’s rays broke upon hisheavy eye-lids, he experienced the most dreadful sensation of ,sickness—he lay quiet—yet bleeding, and not knowing that ;his life was fast ebbing away. A\, length he discovered thehorrible truth ; he feebly gained the lattice, but unable to iraise himself, so as to pass through it, he with his remaining :breath, blew his horn. The well known sound was heard byLittle John, who was near the abbey walls: suspectingw’rong, he called together a strong party, and rushing to thegates, demanded admittance. This was denied, so the gateswere broken open. He again heard tiie tremulous nolcs ofthe born, followed the sound, and soon found poor EobinHood in a dying state, from loss of blood.Little John was greatly exasperated, and vowed to rase ;the treacherous building to the ground: “Not one stone,”said he, stamping his foot violently on the ground, “ not onelittle stone shall stand upon another.”“I prithee, no!” said Eobin to Little John, “the Inst actof my life shall not change in spirit to what the first was—letthe woman’s conscience be her punishment—I will not harmher. But,” said Eobin, with a fainting voice, “give me mybow, and but one arrow—it will be my last shaft—and whereit rests in the greensward, there would I rest also 1”“Eaise me,” said Eobin Hood, in a plaintive voice; bedrew his bow' with a convulsive exertion, and the arrow fkwover the tree tops to a considerable distance. Little Johnwatched the arrow in its flight; and turning, received the :last W'ords of Eobin Hood. “It is my last shot! the last time ‘I ever draw bow-string! Farewell, my bonny yew bow, and ’trusty broad arrow; bear mo to the spot where it fell.” isodied the renowned Eobin Hood.He expired the 24th of December, 1347, aged 55, and wasinterred in Kirkley Park, Yorkshire.EfflTAPIT.Egbert, Earl of Huntingdon,Lies here, his labour being done.No archer like him was so good,His wildness named him Eobin Hood.For thirteen years and somewhat more,These northern parts lie vexed sore:Sucli outlaws as he and his men,May England never know again.J