fiad deviated from the right roa^» find wherehe could procure a night’? ‘'edging. The'old woman now {lowly hfed up‘ her palfredhead, and difeovered "iCt features V/hichcould fcarcely be al'ed human; her eveswere red, pier<";|ff‘ a.nd diftorted, and, rol-iing iiorrib1 “ gta«c:ng upon every cbicfVSingular Adventures cf a Knight. iin hopes of difeovering an entrance, butnone was to be found. At length, juft as hewas about to difmbunt, with an intention.'of breaking the fence, he difeerned, as hethought, foraething moving upon the heath,and, upon advancing towards it, it provedto be an old woman gathering peat, andwho, overtaken by the ftorm, was hurry¬ing home as fait as her infirm limbs wouldcarry her. The-fight ot a human creaturefilled the heart cf Sir Gawen with joy, andhaftily riding up, he enquired how far he4 Singdar^i^pitures of a Knight'.but tui perfon by tfhom fit was addrefild..k unci, at intervals, they emitted a. fiery difa-gretable light; her hair, of a dirty gray,humr matted vuth filth in large maiFes uponher ihoulders, and a few thin portions rufh-. ed abrupt and horizontally From the upperpart of her forehead, which was much wrink¬led, and of a parchment hue; her cheeks^ tvere hollow, withered; and red with a quan¬tity of acrid rheum, her nofe was large, pro¬minent and (harp, her lips thin, fkinny and/ Xvid/her few.teeth black, and her. chin longand peaked., with a number of bufhy hairsdepending from its extremity; her nails alfowere acute, crooked, and bent, over herfingers, and her garments ragged and flut¬tering in the wind, difpfayed every poffibievariety.of colour. The Knight was a littledaunted, but-thfe old woman having men¬tioned a dwelling at fome diftance, and of¬fering to lead the .way, the pleasure receiv¬ed from this piece of news, effaced the form¬er irr.prefiibn, ana getting from bis horfe,tie laid hold of the bridle, and they flowlymoved over, the heath. The ftorm had nowceai'ed, xnd tn- moon rifing, gave prefaceof a fine hbciit, juft as the old womanj tak¬ing ^ fucdeii Mun, plunged into, the woodbv a path narrOv and almoft choaked upwith a quant’ty of '.rier and thorn. Thetrees were thick, and la a fexy gllmpfes ofthe moon, which now and poured lighton th§ uncouth features of m coir!panion,. V ** *. * •' . *«sSingular Jldvetitures of a Knight 5all was dark and difmaK; the heart of SirGawen mif^aye him;' neither fpoke;' and thfeknight purfued his !>;uidc mere!y by the nohbfte jnade in hurrying througli the buflies,which was done with a celerity totally inconfident with her former decrepitude.—Atlength the path grew wider, and a faint bluelight, which came from a building ‘at fomedidance, glimmered before them; they nowleft the wood, and iffued upon a rocky anduneven piece of ground; the moon drug-.gling through a cloud, cad a doubtful and.uncertain light, and the old woman tvith aleer, which mad": the very hair erf Sir Q&wep,hand an end, told him that the dwellingwas at hand. It was 1 o'; for a Gotitic caflle^IfP^i’ ah-.V.j’S**** ■SIliSwLjilp^^jaaEJcassESpplaced on aconfiderable elevation, now catnein view; it was a large maflfy druifture,much decayed, and fome parts of it in a to¬tally ruinous conditions; aportion, hoFever*6 Singular Adventures of a Knight.of the keep, or great tower, was (till entire,as was alfo the entrance to the court orinclofure, preferved probably by the ivy,whole fibres crept round with toiicitous care.I.arge fragments of the rain were 1’catteredabout, covered with inofs, and half funk inthe ground, and a number of old elm trees,through V/hofe foliage the wind fighed witha fullen and melancholy found, dropped adeep and fettled gloom, that icarce permit¬ted the'moon to dream by fits upon thebuilding. Sir Gawen drew near ; ardentcuriofity, mingled with awe, dilated his bo-fpm, and ne inwardly congratulated himfelfdpon fo fingular an adventure, when turn¬ing round to queflion his companion, aglimpfe of the moon poured full upon hiseye fo horrid a contexture of feature, fowild and preternatural a combination, that,fmote with terror, and unable to move, acold fweat trickled from every pore, andimmediately this infernal being, feizing himby the arm, and hurrying him over the draw¬bridge to the great entrance of the keep, theportcullis fell with a tremendupus found, andthe knight, fkrting as it wer'e from a trance,'drew his fword in aft to deftroy his treach-'erous guide, when inftantly a horrible andinfernal laugh burfi from her, and in a mo¬ment the whole cattle was in an uproar, pealafter peal iffuing from every quarter, till atlength growing faint, they died away, anda dead fitence endued, Sir Gawen, who.his (battered powers, now looked round hirti #with determined refolution; his terriblecompanion had difappeared, and the moon,(hiniug full upon the portcullis, convincedhim that any efcape that way was impracti-*i cable; the wind fighed through the elms ;tha feared owd, uttering his difeordant note*I broke from the ruftling j^bugh, and a dimSingular Adventures of a Knight. 7ufing this (trange tumult, had collected alli8 Singular Adventures cf a Knight,twinkling light beamed from a loop-hsinear,the furfimit oi.the great tower , SGawen entered the keep, having previcn.'reafcned himfelf ihto a date of. cool fontude, and bent up even power to the appaling enterprile. He extended his fword bfore him, for it was dark, and proceedecarefuiJy to fearch around, iti hopes eith«of difcojering fome apeiture winch migilead to the vdlibule or Uaircafe, or of wreaiing his vengeance on the wretch who hathus decoyed him. All was fltll as deathbut as he ftrodc over the floor/a dull, holow found ilTued from beneath, and rende:ed him appfehenfive of falling through mifome difmal vault, frdm which he miglnever be able to extricate himfclf. In-thifituation, dreading the elfedl of each lighfootilep, a found, as of many people whitpering, ftruck his ear; he bent forward liitening with eager attention, and as- it feemed to proceed from a little diflSnce beforhim, he deteirrdned to follow it: he did fcand inflantly fell through the moulderinjpavement, whiift at the fame time peals ohorrid laughter again burft with reiterate*clamour from every chamber of the caflleSir Gawen rofe whn confiderable difficultyand much ftunned with the fall, althouglfortunately the fpot ,he had dropped upoiwas 'covered with a quantity of damp amfoft earth, which gave way to his weightHe non found himfelf in u large-vault, archSingular J!cl\'cnluref of a Knight. <§*d in the Gothic manner, and iupportad by«ight maffy pillars^ down whoie Tides thedamp moifturc rah in cold and heavy drops,the moon'filming with great luftre through 'three iron-grated windows, which, althoughrufty with age, were ftrong enough to refifithe efibrts of Sir Gawea, who, after havingin vain tried to force them, looked aroundfor his -fword, which during the'fall h'axi.ftarted from his grafp, and in feat clung theground with his fingers, he laid hold of, and! drew forth the frefh bones- of art enormous' flceleton, yet greafy and mo:if from'the de ¬caying fibres: he trembled with horror—acold wind brufhed vioientiy along the fur-‘ face of the, vault, and a ponderous iron door,! fiowly grating on its hinges, opened at onecorner, and difclofed to the wandering eye ofSir GaWen a broken ftaircafe, down whofeftepj % blue and faint light ilafired. by fits,,,■like the lightening of a fummer’s eve. Ap¬palled by thefe dreadful prodiges. Sir Gawen.felt, in fpite of all his refolution, a cold anddeath-like chill pervade his frame, and kneel-• ing down, he prayed fervently to that Pow¬er, without whofe mandate no being is let■ loofe upon another, and feeling himfelf more: calm and reTolved, he again began to fearehfor his fword, when a moon-beam falling on.J the blade, at once refiored it to *its owner.Sir Gawea having thus refumed his wont¬ed fortitude and refohmon, held a parleywith himfeif. and perceiving no other wayio ’Singular Adventures of a Knight,by which he could efcape. boldly refolvedto brave all the terrors of the ftaircafe, and,once more recommending himfelf to hisMaker, began to afcend. The light fiillilalhed, enablrng him to climb thofe partswhich were not broken or decayed. He hadjproceeded in this manner a confiderable way,mounting, as he fuppofed, to the fummit ofthe keep, when fuddenly a fhrill and agon¬izing fiiriek iffued from the upper part ofit, and fomething rudely brulhing down,grafped him with tremenduous ftrength; ina moment he became motionlefs, cold asice. and felt himfelf hurried back by fomeirrefidible being; but juft as he had reach¬ed the vault, a fpe&re of fo dreadful a fiiapeftalked by within it, that {training everymufcle, he fprang from the deadly grafp:the iron door ruined in thunder upon itshinges, and a deep hollow groan refoundedfrom beneath. NofoOner'had the door.clof-ed, than yelling fcreams, and founds whichalmoft fufpended the very pulfe. of life, iffu-ed from the vault, as if a troop of helliftifuries, with their chains untied, were dafh-ing them in writhing frenzy, and howlingto the uproar. Sir Gawen ftood petrifiedwith horror, a ftony fear ran to his veryheart, and difmayed every fenfe about him;he dared wide with his long locks upftand-ing ftifly, and the throbbing of his heart©ppreffed him. The tumult at length fub-fiding, Sir Gawen recovered fome portionSingular Adventures of a Knight. 11Ttrength', which he immediately made u!eof to convey himfelt as four ds puflible fromthe iron door, and prefently reaching hisformer elevation on the ftaircaie, which,after afcending a few more fteps, terminated. in a winding gallery. The light, which fca'Ahitherto ^afhed inceffantly, now dtfappeat-ed, and he was left in aimoft total dafrknefs,' except that now and then the moon threwa few cool rays through feme broken loop¬holes, heightening the horror of the feene.He dredcor g°mg forward, and fearfullylooked back, left fome yelling fiend fhouldagain plunge him into the vault. He ftoodfulpended with apprehenfion; a mournfulwind howled through the apartments of thr:caftle, and liftening, he thought he heardthe iron door grate upon .its1 hinges; heftarted -with terror, the fveat ftood in bagdrops upon his forehead, his knees fmo-teeach other, and he rulhed forward with d.ef-perate defpair, till having fuddenly turneda corner of the gallery, a taper,, burningwith a faint light, gleamed through a mar¬row dark paftage: Sir Gawen approachedthe light; it came from an exteimve room,; the folding doors of which were wide.open:he entered; a fmall taper in a maffy filvercandleftick ftood upoma table in the middleof the room, bin gave fo inconfiderafcle anillumination, that the one end was wrap¬ped in palpable darknefs, *and the otherfcarcely broken in upon by a dim light that*« 'S&tgu&t Aci-vcnfures of a Knhrlt.ftreamsd tli'rough a large ramifiedmvcf yil wlriz thUk ivy, arm-ehair, Qiat-tered and damp with age, v/as placed nearthe table, dnd the. remains of a recent firewere fiilbviftble in the grate. :he wainf-cct o» blaclv oak, had..formerly been, hungwith tapeftry, and feverai poftions.fliil clungto thole parts w hi pit were near the fire;they pciTsiled fome vivacity of .tint, and withmuch gilding, yet apparent on the chimney-piece, and feverai mouldering reliques of'coftly frames- and paintings, gave indifput-nb!e evidence of the ancient grandeurof theplace. Sir Gawen clofed the folding doors,and, taking the taper, was about to furveythe room, when a deep hollow groan fron*the dark, end of if fmoce cold upon his heart;at the fame time the .found, as of fomethingfalling with: a dead weight, ie-choed throughidle room. Sin Gawen replaced the taper,ti>e "fianie of which was agitated, now quiv¬ering, funk, now ftreaming, flamed aloft,ar.das the laft paie'portion died away* thefoarce-diftinguifhed form of fome terrificbeing ficpated flowly by, and again anotherf readluf g/oan ran deepening through the'gloom'.! Sir Gawen flood for fome time in¬capable of motion, at length flimmoning allhis fortitude, he advanced with his (wordextended to the darkefi part of the room.:inftantly buril forth in fierce irradiations ablue fulphurio.>:s fplendor, and the mangledbody of a man diffo.tcd with the agony ofbinritutr Advenlura of a Knight, i jdeath, his very fibre racked with convulfion,his beard and hair ftiff and matted withblood, his month open, and his eyes pro¬truding from their marble foekets, rufheion the fixed and maddening fenfes of SuGawen, whofe heart had beat no more, hadnot a hifs, as of ten thoufand fiends, lo.ud,horrible, roufed him from the dreadful!fcene; he ftarted, uttering a wild fhriek,his brain turned round, and running heknew not whether, burfi: through the fold,ing doors. Darknefs again fpread her fablepall over the unfortunate Sir (iawen, andhe hurried along the trarrcw pafiage.wiih afeeble and faultering flep. His intellectfhook, and, overwhelmed with the lafe ap¬palling objefts, h^id, not yet recovered anydegree of recollection, and as he wanderedin a dream, a confufed train of horribleideas palling unconnected through his mind:at length, however, memory refumed herfunction, returned it but to daunt him withharrowing fuggeftions; the direful horrorsof the room behind, and of the vault below,were ffill prefent to his eyes, and as a manwhom hellifh fiends had frightened, he.fiocdtrembling, pale, and flaring wild. All wasnow filent and dark, and he determined towait in this fpot the dawn of da^; but a fewminutes had fcarce eiapfed, when'the irondoor, fcreaming on its hinges, bellowedthrough the murmuring ruin.' Sir Gawennearly fainted at the found, which paufing<4 ^ingtdar Adventures of a Knight.for fome time again fwelled upon the wind,,and at iafl died away in fhrill mdanchoiyihrieks j again all was filent, and again the•fame fearful noife ftruck terror to his foul. ]WhiUlhe was thus agitated with horror andapprenenfion, a dim light dreaming frombehind, accompanied with a foft, quick, andhollow tread, convinced Sir Gawen thatfomething was purfuing him, and ftruckwith wildering fear, he rufhed unconfciousdown the fteps; the vault received him, andits portal fwinging to their clofe, foundedas the fentence of death. A dun, fetidfmoke filled the place, in the centre of whicharofe a faint and bickering flame. Sir Gawenapproached, and beheld a corfe fufpendedover it by the neck, ^ts, fat dropped, andthe flame flafhing through the vault, gleam¬ed on a throng of hideous and gaftly fea¬tures, that now came forward through thefmoke. Sir Gawen, with the defperate va¬lour of a man wrho fees deftruction beforehim, ran furious forward ; an univerfalfhriek burft: forth; the corfe dropped intothe fire, which rifing wuth tenfold brilliance,placed full in view the dreadful form of hisVher face was pale as death, her eyes werewide open, dead and fixed, a horrible grinfat upon her features; her lips black, andhalf putrid, were drawn back, difclofing afet of large blue teeth, and her hair, hand¬ing ftifiy ereft, was of a withered red. SirGawen felt his blood freeze within him, hislimbs forgot to move, the face, enlargingas it came, drew near, and, iwooning, hsfell forward on the ground.Slow paffed the vital fluid through thebofom of Sir Gawen, fcarce did the heartvibrate to its impulfe *, on his pallid fore¬head fat a chilly fweat, and frequent fpafms(book his limbs j but at length returningSingular Adventures of a Knight. 15infernal guide, dilated into horror itf.lf j. Singular a Knight.tvarmth jave fome vigour to his frame, theenergy of life became rnofe iuflufedT a tooth¬ing languor ftole upon him, and on open¬ing his eyes rulhetl neither the images ofdeath or the rites of whchcraft, but the foft,the fweet, and tranquil fcenery of a fum-mer’s moon-light night. Enraptured withthis fudden. and unexpeffed change. Sir€rawen rofe gently from off the ground,' o-ver his head towered a large and' majefticoak, at whole foot, by fom'e kind and com-paffionate being he coricluded he had beenlaid. Delight and gratitude dilated his heart,and advancing from beneath the tree, whofegigantic branches fpread a large extent ofthade, a vr*5e, beautiful and romantic, thro*which ran a clear and deep ftream, came fullah view; he walked to the edge of the water,the moon fhone with, mellow luftre on itsfurface, and its banks fringed with fhrtibs,breathed a perfume more delicate than thec'dours of the salt. On one fide, the ground,Singtiuir^dventi4f& cf a- Knigb:, ifcovered vvitiva vivid, foft, aid downy ver-\jdure, ilretched for a confidor »)le extent tothe borders of a large foreif, which iweepinground, finally doled up jthd valley; cn theother, it was broken into abrupt and rockyirtiiTes fwarded with roofs, and frim whofecletrs grew thick and fpread.ingtrees, the rootsof which,, walked by many a fall of water*hung bare and matted from their craggy beds.Sir Gawen forgot in this delicious vale,' all his former fufferings, and giving up hismind to the pleafing influence of curibfitv and.wonder, he determined to explore the placeby tracing the % •ridings of the.ftaeam. Scarcehad he entered upon this plan, when moficdf the molt rayiflung fweetnefs filled the air,fometimes it reamed to float along the val¬ley, -fometim<?s it dole along the furface oftire water; now it died away among thewroods, and now with deep and mellow fym-phony it fwelled upon the gale. Fixed inaftonifhment, Sir Gawen fcarce ventured tobreathe, every feme, fave that of hearing,feemed quite abforbed, and when the laflfaint warblings melted on his ear, he dart¬ed from the ipot, iolicitous to know fromwhat being thofe more than human firainshad parted; but nothing appeared in viewjthe moon full and unclouded, fhone withunufuat ludre, the white rocks glittered inher beam, and, filled with hope, he againpurfued the windings of the Water,, wtucficonducting fo the narrowed part of the vakSingular JklvtKiuns of-rT Knight.lev, continued- their courfe thro* the wood,Sir Gawen enured by a path, 'froooth, butnarrow and perplexed, where, although its ,branches were fo numerous that no prefer¬ence could be gi^en, or any dirt ft route'long perfifted in, yet every turn preftntedfomething to amufe, fomething fo fltarpenthe edge of rcfearch. The beauty of thetrees thtough whofe interftiees-': the moongleamed in the moft ptfturelqtre** manner:the glinipfes of the water, and the notes ofthe nightingale, •who now began to filPhbevalley with her fong, were mole than tuffi-cient to take off the fenfe of fatigue, and hewandered on dill eager to explore, ftili pant¬ing for further difcovery. The wood*nowbecame more thick and obfcure, and atlength alrnolt dark, when the path takingfuddenly an oblique direftion, :Sir Gawenfound hithleli on the edge of a circular lawn,whofe tint and foftnefs were beyond com¬pare, and which feemedto have been light¬ly brulhed by fairy feet. A number of fineold trees*, around whofe boles crept the ivyand the woodbine, role at irregular diftan-ces, here they mingled into groves, andthere feparate, and emulous <?f each other,they fhook their airy fummits in difdain.The water, ^hich had been for feme timeooncealetf, now murmured through a thou-fand beds and vifiting each little fiower, ad¬ded vigour to its vegetation, and poignancyt-o its fragrance. Along the edge* of theIa *JBr' tr a WMBUp *StogiiL-ir jidve.'Utftxt of a Knight. 19Avood aud beqeafh t'h£ fha<!'o\vi.,of the trees,mrm:nerafc(|e hoft of glowsworms lightedtiieir inocuous fires, ludrous a* the gems of^iolconda, and Sir Gawen, defiroris yetlonger to enjoy the I'cene, went forward withlight fo'otfUps on the lawn all was calm,and except the .breeee of night, that fighedand 1 weedy through the world of leaves,a fdence prevailed. Not many mi-nutesV hgwcverg had elapfed before the fameenchanting mufic, to which he had.lidenedwith £0 much rapture in the, v^le, again ar¬reted his ear, ajid pr^ftntly he difcoveredon the bordet of the lawn, juft rifmg abovethe wood, and floating on thebofom of theair, a being of the moft delicate form; fromhis (boulders breamed a tunic of the ten¬dered blue, his'wings and feet were clothedin downy filver, and in his grafp he had awand, white as the mountain fnow. He rofefwiftly in the air, his brilliance became ex-ceffive from the lunar rays, his fong echoedthrough the vault of night, butdiaving quick¬ly dimini (bed to the fize and appearance ofthe evening ftar, it died away, and the nextmoment he was loft in aether. Sir Gawen*(lilt fixed his eye on that part of the heavens,where the vifion had difappeared, and fhortlyhad the pleafure of again feeing the ftar-iikeradience, which in an kiftant unfolded itfelfinto the full and fine dimenfions of the beau¬teous being, who having collected dew fromthe eold vales pf Saturn, new defeended ri--ao Sfrgtfifarftiveniurtr'&a Ki'l£ff*ipicily t-ruvi'.tds (he earth, Stflil waving his.♦'and, as he • paiTtfd aihwart'tlie woods, 8»ttimber of like form^nd garb, flewroundhim, Kpd ;;il alighting ch ihe'Iawn, feparat-«d af VXiuat tdiliraflels cn its circumference,ar.vi th,;i ilaiking their wings which fpread apen ume through thfe air, feurd ilitb’or.^g^n-f .1*. ioirg. Mr Oav^’en, whd apptehenftve qfbeing dilcovcred, had retieated within theiiiadow of fomehnoffylea^s, bo\v waited witheager expettatinn the ^ent of 'fcrfnignlatfceae. In a fpv/ momentsa bevy ofe’Cegattf' nymphs, dancing two by two, iffued fromthe wood ojtthe right, and an equal numberof warlike knights, accompanied by a bandof ninth ds from that of .he left*. The knight?were clothed in green; on their fccfoms (honea plat# of burmlbed Heel, and tn their handsthey grafped a golden- targe and lance ofS'ngufar A^fk^nturei of o '? Ip? isbeamy luftre. Inenytnphi, .thofe form an4'fymmctry were beyond whatever poets dream,were drefled in robes of'white, their zone..,were azure, dropt with diamonds, and theirlight brown hair decked with rotes hung itrample ringlets. So quick, lo light a»»d airywas their motion, tnat the turf, the,Mowers,fhrunk not to the gentle preffure, and eachfoiling on her favourite knight, he fiung h^brilliant arras afide and mingled iirthe dauce*Whillf thus they flew in rapid meafureso’er the lawra. Sir Gavven, forgetting hh fi-Ituation, and impatient to folate the aliembly,invoiuntariiy tlept forward, ari inftantane'oufly a Ihrill and hollow g.vil cf wind mur¬mured through the woods, the mootv diptinto a clopd, and the knights, the dames andserial fpints vanithed from the .view, leavingthe amazed Sir Gtwen to repent at lejfureof his precipitate intrufion; fegree. however,had he time to determine what he (houidpurfue, when a gleam of .light flafhed fudden-ly along the horizon, aryd the beauteous be¬ing, whom he firit beheld in the air, floodbefore him ; he waved his fnowy wand, andpointing to the wood, which now appearediparklingVith a tboufand fires, moved, gent¬ly on. Sar Gigwen felt an irrefifiable impuifewhich compelled him to fpllow and havingpenetrated the. wood, he perce*ven manybright rays of light, which, darting like theteams of the fun, through every part of it,tinoft beautifully illuminated the fhJU. s of the12 Singular Adventures )^ a Knight. 'trees. As they advanced forwards the radii*eirce became more intenfe and converged to-'w^rds the centre ; and the fairy bein^ turn¬ing quickly round, commanded Sir Gar.ento kneel down ana having fbueezed the juice:of an herb into his eyes* bide him now prcAeced, but that no mortal eye, tmkfs its pow¬ers of vifion were increafed, could endure theglory that would (hortly burfi upt>^ theni.Scarce Lad he uttered thefe Wocdsj whenthey entered an amphitheatre ; hi its centrewas a throne of ivory inlaid with' fappbhes;on which fat a female form of e^qmfue be’au:ty, a plain coronet of gold Obliquely croflet|her flowing hah, and her robe of white fatrnj