T /THE r!Life and PropheciesIOFMR ALEX. PEDEN,, Late Minister of the Gospel at New Glenluce,Galloway.And his Remarkable LetterTo the Prisoners of Donnottah Casle, July 1685,EDINBURGHPrinted for the Booksellers in Town and Country.THELIFE AND PROPHECIESOEMR ALEX. PEDEN.Mr ALEXANDER PEDEN was born in the parisof Sorn, in the Sheriffdom of Ayr. After he past hiicourse at the college, he was employed for some time tbe School-master, . Precentor, and Session Clerk, to MJohn Guthrie, Minister of the Gospel at Tarboltor[tii3. When he was about to enter on the Ministry,young woman fell, with child, in adultery, to a servanin the house where he stayed; when she found hersellto be so, she told the father of it, who said, Pll run foit, and go to Ireland; father it on Mr Peden, he hamore to help 3 on to bring it up (he having a small heritage) than I have. The same day that he was to gehis license, she came in before the Presbytery, and saidI hear you are to license Mr Peden to be a Ministerbut do it not, for I am with child to him. He beinfwithout at the time, was called in by the 5and being questioned about it, he said, I am surprised—I cannot speak; but let none entertain an ill thoughof me, for 1 am utterly free of it, and God willvinSi3te me in his own time and way. He went home, andiJked at a water side upwards of 24 hours, and would:ither eat nor drink, but said, I have got what I wasleking, and I will be vindicated, and that poor unhappyss will pay dear for it in her life, and will make a dis-al end 1 and for this surfeit of grief that she has givene there shall never one of her sex come in to my bos-n; and accordingly he never married. There areirious reports of the way that he was vindicated : somey, the time she was in child-birth Mr Guthrie charg-il her to give account who was the father of that child :hd discharged the woman to be helpful to her, untilie did. —Some say that she confessed; others, thatre remained obstinate. Some of the people, when Iade inquiry about it in that country-side, affirmed,iat after the Presbytery had been at all pains about it,id could get no satisfaction, they appointed Mr. Guth-e to give a full i elation of the whole before the congre-ition, which he did ; and the same day the father ofe child being present, when he heard Mr Guthrie be-n to read, he stood up, and desired him to halt, and•id, “ I am the father Of that child, and I desired herIt' father it on Mr Peden, which has been a greatouble of conscience tome ; and I could not get rest tillcame home to declare it.” However, it is certain that,ter she was married, every thing went cross withJem, and they went from place to place, and were re-iced to great poverty. At last she came to that same>ot of ground, where she stayed upwards of 24 hours,ltd made away with herself.' 2. After this, he was three years settled Minister at■ ew Glenluce, in Galloway: and when he was obliged,f the violence and tyranny of that time, to leave thattrish, he lectured upon Acts xx. 17, to the end; andIt preached upon verse 31st. in the forenoon, “ There*4;fore watch, and remember, that for the space of thryears I ceased not to warn every one night and diwith tears. "—Asserting, that he had declared the whecounsel of God, and had kept nothing back; and pr jtested that he was free of the blood of all souls. Ai liin the afternoon, he preached on the 32d verse, “ At1now, brethren, I commend you to God and to the wotof his grace, which is able to build you up, and to giyou an inheritance among all them that are sanctified,”*which was a weeping day in that Kirk; the greatest pacould not contain themselves; he many times request#them to be silent; but they sorrowed most of all, whfhe told them, that they should never see his face in thpulpit again.—He continued until night; and when l!closed the pulpit-door, he knocked hard upon it thr*times with his Bible, saying three times over, I arrein my Master’s name, that never one enter there, bvsuch as come in by the door as I did. According!;neither Curate nor Indulged Minister ever enterethat pulpit, until after the Revolution, that a PresbyterisMinister opened it.I had this account from old persons in that parisilwho were witnesses to it, and worthy of all credit. 13. After this he joined with that honest and zealotiihandful in the year 1666, that was broken at Pentlanohills, and came the length of Clyde with them, whejhe had a melancholy view of their end, and partewith them there. James Cubison, ofPaluchbeauties, mlinformer, to whom he told this, said to him, “ Siyou did well that parted with them, seeing you was pe;suaded they would fall and flee before the enemy.”-Glory, glory to God, that he sent me not to hell imim.diately!— for I should have stayed with them, thougI should have been cut all to pieces.”4. That night the Lord’s people fell, and fle'd be-nfore the enemy at Pentland-hills. He was in a friend’shouse in Garrick, sixty miles from Edinburgh; hislandlord seeing him mightily troubled, inquired howit was with him ? He said, to-morrow I wit! speak with•> ,t|you and desired him to bring a candle. That nighthe went to bed ; the next morning calling early to hislandlord, said, “ I have sad news to tell you; our(friends that were together in arms, appearing for Christ’slinterest, are now broken, killed, taken, and fled everyliman.*’—He said, “ Why do you speak so ? There is a> great part of our friends’ prisoners in Edinburgh."—li About 48 hours thereafter, they were fully confirmedi in the truth of it.5. After this, in June 16'73, he was taken byMajor Cockburn, in the house of Knockdow, in Garrick,who constrained him to tarry all night. Mr Peden toldhim, that it would be a dear night’s quarters to themboth. Accordingly they were both carried pr isoners toEdinburgh. Hugh Ferguson was fined in a thousandmerks, for resetting, harbouring, atrd conversing withhim. The council ordered 50 pounds ster ling to be paidto the Major out of the fines, and ordained hintto divide 25 pounds sterling among the party thatapprehended him. Sonre time after examination, hewas sent prisoner to the Bass, where, and at Edinburgh,he remained until December 1668, that he was banish¬ed.6. While prisoner in the Bass, one Sabbath morning,being about the public worship of God, a young lass,about 13 or 14 years of age, came to tire chamber door,mocking with loud laughter ; he said, “ Poor thing, thoumocks and laughs at the worship of Clod ; but e-re long,God shall write such a sudden surpr ising judgmont on6thee, that shall st’.y thy laughing, and thou shah ncjescape it."—Very shortly after, she was walking on tlrock, and there came a blast of wind, and sweeped Ininto the sea, where she perished.7- One day, when Mr Pcden was taking the air upothe rock, same soldiers nnssing by him, one of theisaid, “Devil take him," “ Fy, fy, poor man, said MjFedcn, thou knowest not what thou art saying; bthou wilt repent that.” At which words the soldier stooi'astonished, and went to the guard-house distracteicrying aloud for Mr Peden, saying the Devil woulimmediately take him away! But when Mr Peden camto him, he found him in his right mind, under deep eonvictions of great guilt, The guard being to change, thedesired him to go to his arms; which he refused to doand said he would lift no arms against Jesus Christ anqhis cause, to persecute his people ; he had done that to-long. The governor threatened him with death to-morroabout ten o’clock ; but he confidently said, three times.!though he should tear all his body in peices, he shouldnever lift arms that way. About three days after, theGovernor nut him out of the garrison, and set himashore. He having a wife and children, took a housein East Lothian, where he became a singular Christian.Mr Peden told these astonishing passages to the fore-said John Cubison and others, wiio informed me.8. When brought from the Bass to Edinburgh, sen¬tence of banishment was passed upon him in December1678, and sixty more fellow prisoners, for the samecause, to go to America, never to be seen in Scotlandagain, under the pain of death. After this sentence waspassed, he several times said that the ship was not yetbuilt that should take him and these prisoners to Vir¬ginia, or any other of the English plantations in Ame¬rica.7I-9. One James Kay, a solid and grave Christian, onethe above prisoners who lives in or about the Water’ Leith, told me, that Mr Peden said to him, “ James,hen your wife comes in let me see herwhich hed. After some discourse, he called fora drink, and when; sought a blessing, he said. Good Lord, let not Jamesay’s wife miss her husband till thou return him tor in peace and saftey; which we are sure will beloner than either he or she is looking for. Accordingly,ue same day month that he parted with litr at Leith,i came home to her at the Water of Leith.[10. When they were on shipboard at Leith, thereas a report that the enemies were to send downlumbkins to keep them from rebelling. Hearingnis, they were discouraged. Mr Peden came on deck,nd said, ‘‘Why are you discouraged ? You needot fear, their will neither thumbkins nor bootkinslome here. Lift up your hearts and heads, for the dayf your redemption draweth near. If we were once atLondon, we will be all set at liberty.’* And when sailingn their voyage, praying publicly,he said, “ Lord, suchs the enemies hatred at thee, and malice at us, for thylake, that they will not let us stay in thy land of Scotl¬and, to serve thee, though some of us have nothingcut the canopy of thy heavens above us and thy eartho tread upon ; but. Lord, we bless thy name, that willut short our voyage, and frustrate thy enemies of theirivicked design, that they will not get us where they in¬tend ; and some of us shall go richer home than weame away.’’ James Pride, who lived in Fife, an hon¬est man, being one of them, said many times, heiculd assert the truth of this, for ho came safely home;tmd, beside other tilings, he bought-two cows; and:»efore that he never had one. I had these accounts both-rom the foresaid James Kay and Robert P«*ton, a8known public man, worthy of all credit, who was ajunder the same sentence, who lived in the parishDahneny near the Queensferry.11. When they arrived at London, the skipper wreceived them at Leith was to carry them no farthThe skipper who was to receive them there, and carthem to Virginia, came to see them, they beingrepresentto him as thieves, robbers, and evil-doers; but whenfound they were all grave Christian men, banishedPresbyterian principles, he said, he would sail the swith none such.— In this confusion, that the one skippwould not receive them, and the other would keep theno longer, being expensive to maintain them, thwere all set at liberty. It was reported, that both tf|skippers got compliments from friends at Londohowever, it is certain they were set free, without amiimposition of bond - or oaths; and their friendsLondon, and on their way homewards through Englan<shewed much kindness unto them.12. That dismr.l daj% June 22 1679, at Bothwe|ibridge, that the Lord’s people fell and fled before tfenemy, he was forty miles distant, near the border, an|kept himself retired until the middle of that day, th£|lsome friends said to him, “ Sir, the people are waitin tfor sermon." He said, “ Let the people go to theibprayers ;.for me, I neither can nor will preach any thii|day, for our friends are fallen, and fled before the etiBemy at Hamilton ; and they are hanging and hashimhthem down, and their blood is running like water."13. After this, he was preaching in GallowayIn the afternoon he prayed earnestly for the prisoneitaken at and about Both well; but in the afternoon whe:ihe began to pray for them, he halted and said, “ Ot9(friends at Edinburgh, the prisoners, have done some¬what to save their lives that shall not do them anygood; for the sea-billows shall be many of their winding-sheets ; and the few of them that escape, shall not beuseful to God in their generationwhich was sadlyverified thereafter. That which the greatest part ofthese prisoners did, was the taking of that Bond, com-i monly called the Black-Bond, after Bothwell, whereinthey acknowledged their appearance in arms, for the! defence of the Gospel and their own lives, to be rebellion,iand engaged themselves never to make any morea oppositions: upon the doing of which, these perfidi-Jous enemies promised them life and liberty, whichmuch grieved Mr Peden.ij 14. After the public murdering of these two worthy,women martyrs, Isobel Allison and Marion Harvie, inI the Grass-market of Edinburgh, January 1681, he wasi in Galloway. A professor of some note, who had morecarnal wit and policy than to suffer him to be honest and faithful, after reasoning upon the grounds ofl their sufferings, affirmed that they would never be^ reckoned among the number of the martyrs. Mr Peden<! said, after musing a little, “Let alone, you’ll never beI honoured with such a -death : and for what you have8 said against these two worthy lasses, your death willI be both sudden and surprisingwhich was shortly| i thereafter; the man standing before the fire, smokinghis pipe, dropt down dead, without speaking more.15. In the month of June, 1682, he was in thei house of James Brown Douglas, John Wilson in Lan-i ark was with him, who suffered martyrdom in theI Grass-market of Edinburgh, the next year. May 1683.1 He lectured at night upon Amos viil. and repeated these•' words in the 6th verse three times; And I will rUe a-gainst the house qf Jeroboam with the sword. He laid10Ins bands on the said John, and said, “ John, have «the unhappy name of Stuarts ! off the throne shathey go, if all the world should set side and shoulder thold them on. ” Afterwards he broke out in a raptcabout our martyrs, saying, They were going on tstage with fresh gales and full sails, and now they aglancing in glory ! O if ye saw them ! they would fle>you out of your wits.” He again laid his hands upoithe said John, and said, “ Encourage yourself in thLord, and hold him fast, John ; for you’ll win up yonider shortly, and get on your braws. " That night h‘went to the fields. To-morrow, about six o’clock Joinwent to seek him, and found him coming to the houseHe said, “John, let us go from the house, for the de¬vil is about it, and will take his prey with him. ’’ Johi isaid, “ We will take breakfast ere we go, it is a ques¬tion when we will get the offer again. ’’ He answered;“No, no, I will not eat bread in this place; our land¬lord is an unhappy man ; the devil will get him shortly,for he will hang himself;’’ which very shortly aftercame to pass ; his daughter, Jean Brown, was the first ithat got him in her arms, hanging in the stable. Shewas reckoned by all to be a grave Christian lass, but)from that day never had her health, and died of a de¬cay at last, after she had been some time in prison forher principles. This passage the same John \V ilson re¬ported several times to many.16. In the year 1680, after the murdering of MrCameron, and these worthies with him at Airdsmoss,.Mr Peden was near Mauchline, in the shire of Ayr:one Robert Brown, of Cross-house, who lived near theNew-mills, and one Hugh Pinaneve, factor to the Earlof Lothian, stabled their horses in that house where hewas, and went to the fair in Mauchline; and in the af¬ternoon, when they came to take away their horses.11they got a drink in the time of it. The said Hugh, avery wicked man, both in principle and practice, brokeout in a railing against sufferers, particularly against MrCameron : Mr Peden being in another roOm overhear-ing all, was so grieved, that he came to the chamber-door, and said to the said Hugh, “ Sir, hold your peace,ere twelve o’clock thou shalt know what a man MrCameron was ; God shall punish that blasphemous sortof and cursed tongue of yours, in such a manner asshall be astonishing to all that see you, and shall setyou up as a beacon to all railing Rabshakehs. ” RobertBrown, knowing Mr Peden, hasted to h,is horse, beingpersuaded Mr Peden’s words would not fall to the ground,and fearing some mischief might befall him for being inthe said Hugh’s company, he rode hard home. Rob¬ert went to bis own house, and Hugh to the Earl’shouse; and casting off his boots, he was struck withsuch a sickness and pain through his tody, with hismouth so wide, and his tongue hanging so far out in afearful .manner, that they sent for the said Robert; be¬ing used to take blood, he got some blood of him, butall in vain, for he died before midnight. The said Ro¬bert, an old man, told me this passage when we wereboth in prison together.17- In the year 1682,, he was in Kyle, and preach¬ed upon that text. The plorvers plowed upon my hack,and drew long their furrows ; where he said, “ Wouldye know who first yoked this plow ! It was cursed Cain,when he drew his furrows so long and also deep, thathe let out the heart-blood of his brother Abel; and hiscursed seed has, and will gang, summer and winter,frost and fresh weather, till the world’s end; and atthe sound of the last trumpet, when all are in a flametheir theets will burn, aiiid their swingletrccs will fall tothe ground; the plowmen will lose their giipes of the12pfow, and the gadmen will throw away their gadsand then, O the yelling and shrieking that will be anions, Hall this cursed seed, clapping their hands, and crying nto the hills and mountains to cover them from the faceof the Lamb, and of him that sits npon the Throne, fottheir hatred of hinfi, and malice at his people.”IS. In the beginning of May 1085, he came to thihouse of John Brown and Marion VVeir, whom he mar¬ried before he went to Ireland, where he .stayed alllnight; and in the morning, when He took farewell, he?]came out at the door, saying to himself, “ Poor woman,a fearful morning, (twice over) a dark misty morning.”The nexi morning, between five and six o’clock, thelsaid John Brown, having performed the worship o|God in his family, was going with a spade in his hand,,!to put some peat ground in order, the mist being thickand dark, he knew not until cruel and bloody Claver-house compassed him with three troops of horSe,brought him to his house, and there examined him ,who, though he was a man of stammering speech, yeti!answered him distinctly and solidly, which made Clav-llei house to ask at those whom he had taken to be hisjiguides through the muirs, if ever they heard him preach ?-They answered,. No no, he was never a preacher.Cfaverhouse said, “If he has never preached, he hasprayed.” Then he said to John, “Go to your prayers,for you shall immediately die. When he was praying,Claverhouse iiiterrupted him three times. One timethat he stopt him, he was pleading that the Lord wouldsparc a remnant, and not make a full end in the day ofhi-s anger. Claverhouse said, “I gave yoii time to Ipray, and ye are begun to preach.” John turned aboutfupon his knees, and said, “ Sir you know neither thenature of preaching nor praying, if yon call this preach-13inng. ” Then continued without confusion. When end¬ed, Claverhouse said, take good night of your wife andchildren. His wife standing by, with a child in herarms, which she had to,him, and another child of hisfirst wife’s, he came to her and said, Now Marion, theday is come that I told you would come, when I spakefirst to you of marrying me.—She said, indeed, John, Ilean willingly part with you. Then he said, <f That islall I desire, I have no more to do but die.” He thenkissed his wife and bairns, and wished purchased and[promised blessings to be multiplied upon them, and hisown blessing. Claverhouse then ordered six of hissoldiers to shoot, and the most part of the bullets came[.upon bis head, which scattered his brains upon theground !—Claverhouse said to his wife, What think yeof your husband now, woman?”—She said, I thoughtever much of him, and now as much as ever. He saidit were justice to lay thee beside him. She answered, ifye were permitted, I doubt not but your cruelty wouldgo that length : But how will ye answer for this morn-ling's work ? He said, to man I can be answerable,and for God, I willtakehiminmy'ownhand. Claverhousemounted his horse, and then marched, and left her withi.he dead corpse of her husband lying there.—She seti:he bairn on the ground, gathered his brains, tied up□is head, straighted his body, and covered him withaer plaid, and sat down and wept over him. It beingU very desert place, where victual never grew, and farjrom neighbours, it was some time before any friendlame to her; the first that came was a very fit hand,hat old singular woman in the Cummerhead, namedElizabeth Menzies, three miles distant, who had beenried with the violent death of her husband at Pent-mnd, and afterwatds of two worthy sons, Thomas Weir,Ivho was killed at Drumclog, and David Steel, who was14suddenly shot afterwards when taken. The said Mdion Weir, sitting upon her husband’s grave, .told n jthat before that she could see no blood but she was jdanger to faint, and yet she was helped' to be a witnto a!! this, without either fainting or confusion, exctwhen the shots were let off, her eyes dazzled. Icorpse was buried at the end of his house, wherewas slain, with this inscription on ins grave stone.In earth’s cold bed, the dusty part here lies.Of one who did the earth as dust despise:Here, in this place, from earth he took departure;!Now he has got the garland of a .Martyr.This murder was committed betwixt six and sevin the morning, Mr Peden was about ten or elev jmiles distant. Having been in the fields all night, ;came to the house betwixt 7 and 8, and desired to c :in the family, that he might pray amongst them ; wl rpraying, he said. Lord, when wilt thou avenge Brow ;blood ?—Oh! let Brown’s blood be precious in i ,sight; and hasten the day when thou wilt avengewith Cameron’s, Cargif’s, (and many others of our mtyr's names.) and, oh! for that day, when the L .will avenge all their blood! When ended, John MOhead inquired what he meant by Brown’s blood?said. What do I mean ? Claverhouse has been at !Preshil this morning, and has cruelly murdered J*Brown ; his corpse is lying at the end of his hoi >and his poor wife sitting weeping beside them, andn ,,soul to speak comfortably to her. This morning,' a.the sun-rising, I saw a strange apparition in the |mament; the appearance of a very bright, clear-shin f.star fall from heaven to the earth; and indeed ther|fa clear-shining light fallen this day, the greatest Cb Itian that ever I conversed with."15114). When the time of Mr Peden's death drew near,and not being able to travel, he came to his brother’shouse in the parish of Sorn, where he was born. Hecaused dig a cave, with a saughen bush coveting theI mouth of it, near to his brother’s house. The enemiesgot notice; and searched the house narrowly manytimes. In the time that he was in this cave, he saidto some friends—1st, That God shall make Scotland adesolation.—Kdly, There shall be a remnant in the1 land, whom God should spare and hide.—Sdly, Theyshould lie in holes and caves of the earth, and be sup-; plied with meat and drink; and when they come out ofi their holes, they shall not have freedom to walk for! stumbling on dead corpses.—4thly. A stone, cut out ofa mountain, should come down, and God shall be aven¬ged on the great ones of the earth, and the inhabitantsof the land, for their wickedness ; and then the churchshould come forth with a bonny bairn-time of youngones at her back. He wished that the Lord’s peoplemight lie hid in their caves, as if they were not in theworld: for nothing would do it, until God appeared withhis Judgments : an4 they that wan through the bitterand sharp short storm, by the sword of the Frenches,and a set of unhappy men taking part with them, thenthere would be a spring-tide day of plenty, purity, and- power of the gospel, giving them this for a sign, If he were- but once buried they might be in doubts ; but if he wereh oftener buried than once, they might be persuaded that; all he had said would come to pass; and earnestly de-S sired them to take his corpse out to Airdsmoss, andbury him beside Richy (meaning Mr Cameron) thathe might get rest in his grave, for he had gotten little^ through his life : but he said, he knew they would notdo it.—He told them, that bury him where they would,I he would be lifted up again ; but the man that put firsti to his hand to lift his corpse, four things should befallbrim: 1. He sbouid get a great fall from a horse.He should fall in adultery. 3, Into theft: and for thi jhe should leave the land. 4t. Make a melancholy emabroad for murder. Which accordingly came to passThere was one Murdoch, a mason to his trade, but themin the military service, who first put hands to his corpse tA little before his death he said. Ye snail be angr ;where I shall be buried at last, but I discharge you all <to lift my corpse again. At last, one morning early, hcame to the door, and left his cave; his brother’s wifisaid, Where are you going? the enemy will be her® iHe said, I know that. Alas! Sir, said she, what will be jcome of you? You must go back to the cave agair iHe said, I have done with that, for it is discovered l-but there is no matter, for, within forty eight hours,will be beyond the reach of all the devil’s temptation:|and his instruments, in hell or on the earth ; and the|shall trouble me no more. About three hours afterentered the house, the enemy came and found him nclin the cave; then they searched the barn narrowlycasting the unthreshen corn; and searched the housrfcstabbing the beds, but entered not into the place wheithe lay. Whithin 48 hours he died, Jan. 28, 1686: beinfipast 60 years, and was buried in Laird Afflect’s isblThe enemies got notice of his death and burial, and seufea troop of dragoons, and lifted his corpse, and carrieihim to Cumnock gallows-foot, and buried him theil(after being forty days in the grave) beside others. H jfriends thereafter, laid on a grave stone above him witthis inscription.17HERE LIESMr ALEXANDER PEDEN,A faithful Minister of the Gospel at Glenluce,Who departed this Life, Jan. 23, 1686,And was raised, after Six Weeks, out of his Grave,And buried here out of contempt.After this, the troop of dragoons came to quarter inthe parish of Cambusnethen ; two of them were quar¬tered in the house of James Gary, my aquaintance ; they. being frighted in their sleep, started up and clappedtheir hands, crying, Peden, Peden ! These two dra-J goons affirmed that out of their curiosity they openedhis coffin to see his corpse, and yet he had no smell,jj though he had been forty days dead. All the foregoingi articles I was assured of, except the 40th, which is said, he spoke to John Clark in Muirbrock, within the boundsof Carrick, in the year 1685, and has been passing from(hand to hand in write. I sent a friend 20 miles to himifor the certainty of it; and, although he was my old ac-jquaintance, he delayed to give it. But 1 am informed,ithat some other friends inquired at the said John, whot owned that the 40th passage was all one, for substance,»with what Mr Peden said to him. There are othertwo passages I have often heard, and doubt norhing ofthe truth of them, though the times and places be noti mentioned, viz. One day preaching in the fields, ini his prayer, he prayed earnestly for the preservation oflithe people; and again and again he prayed for thati man that was to lose his life. The enemies came up¬on them the same day, and fired upon the people, andthere was none of them either wounded or killed, saveone man, and he was shot dead. Another time he waspreaching, and gave a very large offer of Christ, in theGospel terms; an old woman being sitting before him,he laid his hands on each side of her head, and rockedher from side to side, and said, Thou witch-wife, thouwitch-wife, thou witch-wife; I offer Christ to thee.Quit the devil’s service, thou hast a bad master, thouwilt never make thy plack a bawbee of him ; but if thouwilt break off and renounce the devil’s service, 1 pro¬mise thee, in my master’s name, that he will give:thee salvation. After this, there was a discerniblechange in her practice ; and when she was a-dying,she confessed that she was either engaged in the devil’sservice, or was engaging: and expressed her thankfulness that she had the happiness of hearing Mr Pedem iat that time.Since the publishing of the former passages of MrPeden’s life and death, I received two letters from SirAlex. Gordon of Earlston, in the year 1725 and 1726,since gone to his grave—shewing that he was not onlyfully satisfied, but much refreshed with the passagesjrequesting me not to delay the publishing of all thatproposed, and that he longed to see him before 1went off the stage ; knowing that my day is far spentbeing long since I was his fellow-prisoner, and taughthim, from my own experience, how to manage th«great weight of iro is that was upon his legs; and wishing that all the Lord’s people, who have any zeal foithe sworn to and sealed testimony, and savoury re'membrance of the names of Christ’s slain witnesses fo.jthe same, and of the Lord’s signal manifestations of hidfaithfulness and ail sufficiency to them in their liftand death, would give me all encouragement in suchpiece of good and great regeneration work, which may b<useful and edifying when he and I would be mouldering in the dust.19LETTERFROMMr ALEXANDER PEDEN,To the Prisoners in Dunnottar Castle,i July 168 5.I Dear Friends,ilong to hear from you, how you spend your time, andow the grace of God grows in your hearts. I knowe and other of the Lord's people, by reason of the pre-ent trial, have got up a fashion of complaining uponi'hrist, but I defy you to speak an ill word of him, un-yss ye wrong him. Speak as you can, and spare not;Inly I request that your expressions of Christ be suit-*le to your experience of him. If ye think Christ’suse be bare and ill-provided, and harder than yeooked for, assure yourselves Christ minds only to dietpjou, and not to hunger you ; our steward knows wheni* spend and when to spare. Christ knows well vvhe-riter heaping or straiking agrees best with our narrowdtessels, for both are alike to him ; sparing will not en-ijnh him, nor will spending impoverish him. Pie thinksI ill won that is holden of his people. Grace and glo-> J| comes out of Christ’s lucky hand. Our vessels areIcklcss and contain little; his fulness is most sfraiten-il when it wants a vent. It is easy for Christ to beijilden busy in dividing the fulness of his Father’sfuse to his poor friends; lie delights not to keepqjrcy over-night. He is the easiest merchant evprpeople of God yoked with; if he be pleased withthe wares, what of his graces makes best for you,and you will soon sort on the price; he will sell hgoods cheap, that ye may speir for his shop agair i;and he draws all the sale to himself. I counsel yr iijto go no farther than. Christ. And now when it |come to your door, either to sin or suffer, I conns ryou to lay your account with suffering; for an out-ga: ;coming from any airth will be prejudicial to yoi >soul’s interest. And for your encouragement, rememb ibe sends none a warfare on their own charges, and ble Iis the man that gives Christ all his money. The sajliest way to shift the shower is to hold out of God’s gat jand keep within his doors, until the violence of tl|storm begin to ebb, which is not yet full tide. Chri jideals tenderly with his young plants, and waters theoft lest they go back; be painful, and lose not life fthe seeking Grace, mercy and peace be with you.EPITAPHUpon tho Martyr's Mo; ument in the Gruy-friai*Church-yard in Edinburgh.Upon the head of the Tomb there is the Effigies ofopen llible, drawn with these Scripture citatio>Rev. vi. 7- 10. 11.—“ And when he had opened •fifth seal, I saw tinder the altar the souls of th;that had been slain for the Word of Goo, and Ithe testimony which they held,” See.—Rev. vii. LAlso the following lines:Halt, passenger, take heed what you do sfe.This tomb doth shew for what some men did die;Here lies interr’d the dust of those who stood’Gainst perjury, resisting unto blood ;Adhering to the Covenant and Laws,Q1*+! X'r'^Establishing the saine; which was the cause■ Their lives were sacrificed into the lust1 Of Pielatists abjured.—Tho’ here their dust! Lies mix’d with murderers, and other crew,! Whom Justice justly did to death pursue;But as for these no cause in them was foundi Worthy of death, but only they were sound.Constant and stedfast, zealous, witnessing.For the Prerogatives of Christ their King,Which truths w'ere seal’d by famous Guthrie's headAnd all along to Mr Renwick’s blood.They did endure the wrath of enemies.Reproaches, torments, deaths and injuries;But yet they’re these who from such trouble came,And now triumph in glory with the Lamb.From May 27th, l66l, that the noble Marquis ofArgyle suffered, to Feb. 27th, l6S8, that Mr James1 Renwick suffered, 100 Noblemen, Gentlemen, Minis-! ters, and others, were executed at Edinburgh, noble: martyrs for Jescjs Christ. The most part of themj lie here.—It is also said that 28,000 suffered in the1 late persecutions in Scotland.ANECDOTE OF WHITFIELD,THE FAMOUS PREACHER.About forty years ago, the famous Mr George Whit¬field used annually to visit Glasgow, and, by his popularmode of preaching, allured great multitudes, especiallyof the fiimale sex, to attend his sermons. The greatS object of his dicourses was to rouse to acts of benefi¬cence : and as he had instituted a charitable seminary’ in Georgia, he was strenupus in his exhortations to the22audience to be liberal in giving aims for the support o ithe helpless persons he had there collected togetherAmong his constant hearers was one Mrs , the idwife of a brewer, in a small line of business, who had tsome difficulty to provide funds for carrying on his af- )jifairs without embarrassment. He had no time to attend fthe daily harangues of this ghostly orator; nor was he imuch pleased with the time his wife spent on these oe < >casions, and far less with the demands she sometimes ;made upon him for money to be given for charitable itpurposes. This diversity of opinion between the man tand wife sometimes produced family discord: Andj ’while the lady believed the divine was little less than tan angel from heaven, the husband considered him as Itno better than a thief or a pick-pocket, who, under |ifalse pretences, induced simple people to throw away tupon others, the means that were necessary for the isubsistence of their families: nor was he, when heated! fin the contest, and chagrined at times for want of mo- I)ney, at all times scrupulous in expressing without re-serve his opinion of this supposed saint. The wife, j|who was of a warm disposition, though not destitute of 0sense at bottom, was much irritated at these reflec- 1tions, and thinking they proceeded from worldly-mind- 1edness of her husband, felt a strong inclination to in¬dulge her own propensity to benevolence by every ■means that should fall in her way. To get moneyfrom her husband avowedly for this purpose, she knewwas impossible; but she resolved to take it when shecould find an opportunity for that purpose. While shedwas in this frame of mind, her husband, one morningkiwhile he was writing at his desk, was suddenly calledwaway, and, intending to return directly, did not closehis desk. His wife thought this too favourable an op¬portunity to be missed; and opening the seruitoir,,where she knew the money was kept, she found about23liventy-five guineas, which the husband had providedp pay for some barley he had lately bought. Fromhis she took out ten pieces, and left every thing else asefore: nor did the husband, on his return, take anyoticeofit.ii She v/as now’ very anxious to get this money proper-/ disposed of, and with that view, dressed herself inreat haste: and having wrapped the pieces in a bitf paper, she took them in her hand to go out; hut ashe passed a mirror, she observed something about herlead dress that required to be adjusted, and puttingae money on a bureau beneath the mirror, she spent attle time in making the necessary adjustments; andecollecting she had omitted to give some necessary di-fections before she went out. she stepped hastily intoihe kitchen for that purpose, without taking up the mo-ey. Just at this nick of time the husband came intohe room, and seeing se n: thing on the top of the bu-eau, took it up to examine it, and seeing what it was,immediately conjectured what was the truth. With-ut saying a word, however, he took out the gold, andut an equal number of halfpence in its stead, leavingjfie paper, to appearance, as he found it, and went outgain. The wife, having heard her husband go out ofrie room, was in great fear that he bad discovered herreasure, and returned with great anxiety to seek for it;mt seeing it happily just as she left it, .she hastilymatched it up, without looking at it, and went directly3 the lodgings of Mr Whitfield to dispose of it.I When she arrived, site found him at home—and ajappy woman was she! Having introduced herself,y telling him how much she had been benefited by hisions instructions, &c. which he returned with a readyioliteness, she expressed her regret that she had it notII her power to be as liberal to his poor orphans as she'puld wish; but she hoped he would accopt in goodprt the mite she could afford to him on their account:24and with many professions of charitable dispositionand thanks for the happiness she had derived from stending his discourses, she put the money into his barand took her leave. Mr Whitfield, in the mean tinputting the money into his pocket without lookingit, made proper acknowledgments to her, and waiton her to the door.He was no sooner, however, alone, than he tookout to examine the contents, and finding it only caper—and comparing the sum with the appearancethe person who gave it, he instantly imagined it mthave been given with intention to affront him; awith this prepossession on his mind, he hastily openthe door, and called the lady back, who had not as ygot to the bottom of the stairs. This summonsinstantly obeyed. On her return, Mr Whitfield, tsuming a grave tone and stern manner, told her, tfhe did not expect she could h <ve presumed to offeraffront him : and, holding out the halfpence, asked hwhat she could mean by offering such a paltry complimeas that ? The paper, and recollecting that she had tten heard him called a cheat and impostor, immediatly suspected that he himself had put the halfpenceplace of the gold, and made use of that pretext to etort more from her, fell upon him bloodily, telling hishe had often heard him called a swindler and a rase;but until now she had never believed it. She was cetain she had given him ten red guineas out of hhands, and now he pretended he had got only as maijhalfpence; nor did she leave him until she had givhim a very full complement of abuse. She then wihome in a great hurry ; and had a much better opion of her husband’s discernment and sagacity everterwards. He kept the secret; and until her dyiday, she made a good wife to him ; nor ever wentfecr field-preachcrs of any sort.FINIS.