x n ei£ - v ; v ■Wire-jule Companions.To which arc adc’td,COLIN AND P H E B E-KING JOHN and the BISHOP ofC A N T E R B U R Y.iWITH A FROWN SHE CAN KILL.G L A S G O W,- Tinted by J. Sc M. ROBERTSON,Salur.as&er, 1802.C 2 )X >4—H* ^ r *t— -4*- -f—-n- -5— -+■ *4“—4- -f—■—r -+——4* 4* >?(g)V W, (#).%(»)*.THE FIlib'..SIDE COMPANIONS.‘VT'OU fire-HJe compnntons who merrily boufe,J- Along with your neighbours a-reading (he newSj,O little you mind, and as little you knowThe hardfhips and dangers we failors undergo. iBut in time of war we are firfl in command,Like heroes of valour we boldly do Hand,We are the glory of Britain, and terror of Spain,And who are fo ftee as we fons of the main ?You jolly brave farmers that follow the plow,A reading our proceedings your joys to renew ;And pray for our fuccefs, as judiy you may,Which makes you in tafety at home for to flay.You fire-fide companions who love and admire,Whofe roaring cannons ne’er found in your ear;Who ne’er durfi appear to fight in your lives,Uolcfs with your neighbour or tlfe with your wiv.;You flunkies and bsrbers who flaunting do go,At church and at market are reckon’d a beau ;Who ne’er was expofed where bullets did fly,Wou’d make you to tremble with tears in jour eye.Like us jolly furors who bound to the main,Expos’d to the fury of both France and Spain ;The.’ friends and relations our abfence do mourn,In feurab of viffory I hope we’ll rcterrn.C 3 )There’s fome left their parents, others their wives,*Who now for their country are vent’ring thwr lives,11 Upon the raging feas where cannons do roar,1 While you here in fafety remaitl on the fiiore.You fire-fiJe companions I bid you adieu,Our ftay is but fhort, and time won’t allow,Our time is but fhort, and we mud away,i The banners of Great Britain once more to difplay.Our name is victory, our hearts they are true.Therefore now make baAe and join in our crew,! For brave Volunteers are all our delight,i Who now for our country fo freely do fight.The glory of Britain we’ll make for to fhine,I; To conquer or die boys, it is our defign ;: Since we on the fens muft take our chaics,;t| Like h'ave Brithh heroes we’ll bcldiy advance.Corrte fill up your bumpers & let them go round,1 To our fatlors and foldiers the pillars of the crown;'0 For unto their praife we will merrily fing,2 Succefs to our Navy, and long live the King.COLIN AND P H E B E.T) F Hill, O yc winds, and attentive yc fwains,’Tis Phebe invites and teplics to my firains,li The fun never rofe on (feaicii all the'world thro*}..A fhepherd fo bleft, or a fair one fo true. A, etcP II E 6 E.Glidefoftlyyefireams, ye nymphs round me throng,i.U Coiin corrunands and erjlivens my fong.( ■? )Search all the world over you never can find,A maiden fo blefs’d, or a fhepherd fo kind. A, etc.COLIN.’ 1:5 love like the fun that gives life to the year,The ftveetefi of bieffings that light can endear;On pieafure ir br^htens, drives forrow away,Gives joy to the night, and enlivens the day. A, etc.With Phene befide me, the feafon how gay ?And Winter’s bleak months .are as pleafant as May:The Swim-net’» gay vetdurt* ft ill fpiings as iltt; triads,And linnets Si nightingale? fing thro’ the meads, etc.P H E h) E.Wlitn Colin is abbiin, his Winter all round.How faint is the nmfhinc ! how barren the .ground 1Inflead of the hnnst, the ivg'uinga'e’.s fong.I hear the hoarfc raven croak all the day long. etc.COLIN.O'er hill, Jaie and valley, my Phtbe and I,Together llrall wander, and love fhali be by ;Poor Cohn fnall waudatr (afe all tire long day.And Phehe at night ali his pains fhsii repay. &.C,P H E S E.Py moon-light when loadows glide over the plain,His ki.Tes fiaall cheer me, his arms (lull fudain.The dark haunted grove I car. trace without fear,And fleep in a church-yaid if Colin he near. etc.‘ COLIN.Ye fisepherds that wanton it over the plain,How fleeting your tranfporis! how lading your pain! sInconOancy (hun, and rewatd the kind Ihe,And learn to be happy from t'hebe vnd me. And, etc-( 5 )P H E B EVe nyraphs who ihe p’eafures of fove never try’d,lAttend 10 my Ttrains and take me for your guide,Your liearts keep from pride and in con (fancy free,And learn to be happy from Colin and me. And. etc.King John *nd the Bishop of Canierbury.1’ L L teli you a jeft that lately was done,Concerning the Biihop of Canterbury.■ Who for h'.s good houfe-keeping, dc his good dieer,|Wra s forced before King John to appear.Derry down, down, hey deny down.'Whit now, Mr. Bifiiop ! Vis told unco me,'That you keep a far better boufe than we;|And if you be a man, a man of renownYou’ve committed treafon againff our crown, etc.If I’ve committed treafon pray let it be known ;Tm fore I’ve fjient no body's gear but my own:|)I hope my Ledge, I won’t pay too dear,iFor (pending of my own weil-won gear. etc.Mr. Bifiiop, for thy jeiTtng with me here,There is three queftiou* at thee 1 wiii fpter ;(And if thou do not art Aver them aright,Your head from your body ihnli be taken Oraigbr. etc/Firft, You muB tell me, when on my deed,rW’ith a cro.vn of gold upon my headWith all my nobility, joy, and great mirth.You muft tell me ro one penny what l sin worth, etc.The next you muft tell me, without any doubt,How long I’ll be tiding the world about:And my third queftion flight you muff not,You nrnft tell me, O difhop what is my thought, etc..They ate three hard queflions for my filly wit,And the anfwer »f them I cannot well get;But if that you grant me three days {pace,I will tefolve them unto your Grace. Derry, etc.Three days is the longefi that thou doft crave, jThree days is the longed thou haft to live;The Biftiop took horfe and went away home,And he met with a fhepherd who was alone.Your*fervant, Sir Biftiop, you’re welcome home;What news have you brought from good King John?!Bad news, fakl the Bilhop, I’ll ne’er prevail,For to take learning at a fhcrp’s tali. Deny, etc.What, Mr: Biftiop, Have you not heard yet,That a fool may teach a wife man wit ?Then faid the Biftiop fince thou anf^er’d me fo,The whole ftory unto thee I wiil ftiow. etc.Firft, I muft tell him when upon his fteed,And a crown of pure gold upon his head,With all his nobility, joy, and great mirth,1 muft tell him to one penny, what he is worth, etc.Next, l muft tell him, without any doubt,How long he’ll be riding the world aboutAnd the third queftion flight I muft not,To tell him, Oh ftiepherd ! what is his thought, etc.O wilt thou grant me thy hori’e and appsrd,ivtid I’ll go to London and anfwer the quarreJ,•ly hoife and furniture thou wilt have,f that, Mr. fliepherd, my life thou wilt fave. etc.The fhfpherd got on the Bifhop’s gown,i itnd rede away llraight for London town ;i |tnd when that he came to that large place,i'e alighted down befide his Grace. Derry, etc.What now, Mr. Bifhop are you come to fee,I.Whether you now are to live or t© die ?or if that you don’t anfwer me aright,our head from your body fhall be taken flraight. etc.*1 Now firft, You mull tell me when on my Heed,Vith a crown of pure gold upon my head,iVith all my nobility, joy, and great mirth,mou mud tell me, to one penny, what f am worth, etc.The next yon muft tell me, without any doubt,;.iow long I’ll be riding the world about ;nd my third queflion (light you mud not,u rauft tell me, O Bilhop, what is my thought, etc.Cur Saviour for thirty pence was fold,mong the Jews both barren and bold ;itnd nine and twenty's the whole price of thee,ru fure thou’rt one penny worfe than he. etc.Rife up with the fun, go about with the fame,1. nd twenty.four hours will bring thee again ;h nd then 1 will tel! thee without any dpubt,tt bar thou haft ridden the world about. etc.C )b’cw, the tKhiJ quefilon, to make you merry,T hou thinks I’m the Bifhop of Ganferbury ;I sm hut his lliepherd—the Bilhop’s at tome;O p?rJon, O pardon, O good Kirg John. etc.The King he turn’d him about with a fmi'e, |Saving, Thou mu hi be Bithop the other while.G no ! faicl the Ihtpherd, it mp.fl sot he ^ae,For I cannot read nor knows A, B/ C. ere.O then for thy jelling vuth me here,Three hundred pounds I’ll give thee by ye'<r,You may tell the Bifhop, when, that you go home, jYou've purchas’d his pardon from good King John.etc.WITH A FROWN SHE CAN KILL.rT'''HE nymph that undoes me is fair and unkind,No lefs than a wonder by nature defign’d :She’s the grief of my hearr, the }oy of rhy eye,And the caufe of a flame that never can die.Her mouth, fiom whence wit obligingly (lows,?Has the beautiful blofh, and the fmell of the rofe; *Love and defliny both frill attend on her will.She wounds with a look, with a frown fbecan kill. |The ikfperste lover can hope no redrefs,T here beauty and vigour are both in excels:In Silvia they meet, fo unhappy am I,"Who fees her mull love, and who loves her tcuft die.■hp^iihi iiiu   i i i ijGlafgow, Printed by J. Sc M. Robertfoa*Saltmarket, 1802.