THEHISTORYOF THE^ - ‘SEVEN WISEMASTERS,0 F R 0 M E.   /CONTAINING ;Many excellent and delightful Examples,'TvitJi their Explanationstand modern significations, which(by vr*» of allusion) may be termed,dn historical comparison of •sacred and CivilTit . VS ACT IONS)[the better tc mate an ' repressionON THE MINDS OF MEN,S11RLING-Printed and Sold oj M. R*Ni»4i2*t'(^OFSCOTUim^THEHISTORYOF THESeven Wise Masters.CHAP. i.HERE reigned in the citjr of Pcwufsur.ous Emptror, whose wife excein virtue all the rest of her sex ; he hadthis wife one son, named Dioclesian- "Emperor assembled his nobles to advise bho might train up his son. Their opinion '•that he thould strd for the Seven Wisefers. The young Prince thus disposedhis mother, the queen, scon after died ; :the Emperor having lived single fcr sctime, the Reman Lords beset ght himtake a second wife. At this all the court!Europe were searched for an accomplisllady; at length they pitched on the KingCastile’s daughter, of wbcm the Empemuch approved ; the tr.aniage being celuded, she came to Rome, and there, wfomp, the nuptial* were celebrated. 14 tsng Empress having na child, studied howmight destroy the voung Prince ; & theer to do it, prevailed with her Lord toi for him to court But the hasty andxpected message caused the masters to> ct some evil; they consuited the planetsfound that if the Prince went at that;} and spoke.at all, he would die a vio-death ; and yet if he went not, theya'd lose their heads, which they would ra-: do than hazard his life Whilst theye in this anxiety, the Prince came downdemanded th~ cause of their troubles ?which they related wi h their resolution.■ With that he viewed the firmament, andnd the sdnstellari^ns more propitious, forrow appeared, that if he abstained fromakrg seven days he would escape theih threatened desiring his masters to in-:ede in his favor and make an a rology toEmperor fcr his rot speaking for such ae and withal told them a dream thathad dreamed, v’./C that his bed-chambermed to be turned upside don Fromich they presaged good success promisingdo their utmost for his pr serva.i' n andreupo i set him upon a st-te5v norse cloth-in purp e and goid. a-d attended him tofather's court, fhe Empernr :ne forthf embraced him, quiri g ’or his wel=eto which the prince gave no answer jtcreat the Emperor marvelled, yet, sup-jing it was to ordered by the masters, he4conducted him to the palaeg and seated hrext »Ve throne ; interrcgating many tliirbut he answered to none. ’While the Emjror s thoughts were taken up in wonderiat his son’s silence, the Empress came in,domed -*ith co. tly rcbes, and understandiwhich was her son-in-law, received him wbecoming kindness, nnd taking him ashby the Emperor’s consent she undertookmake him speakThough with intent his virtue to betrayThat to Ids life she flight make easy w;CHAP. If.\2he Emprus ukked scheme.The Empress, fited with the beautythe young Piincc, sought mauy meansentice him to a rich alcove, te'iing hithat she would die and leave her royaltyhe denied her love This he reiused, tlin silence ; whereupon she brought him p■ink, and paper, desiring him to write a rep!which he did to th s effect; Great Mad. ithe lawrs of roy Creator forbid so greatWickedness, cs to defile my father’s bed ; itil, Madam, would re the ct-ns^ quer.ee, bofrom avenging heaven, and my fatluwrath, therefore en my knees, I irapicyou W*u d proceed no farther ; hereuponupon h:s knees. The Empress feeing, turned her love to hatred, tearing here an I rehes in a most wretched manner,ing out for help. At this alarm the Em-or came and demanded the cause, when: declared, that the Prince would have>n rude with her, and forced her to lewd-;s Ch» Emperor commanded him to bet to deu'h directly . upon which the nobles1 on their knees before their Lord, and2wed a resp to. for his execution ; to which: Emperor agreed j whicti pleased all buts Empress.CHAP. III.Pant iVus, the first Master's Intercession.The Empress grieving at the delay ofe Prince s execution told the Emperors following example, saying, if this tonted, it would fare with him as with a Ro¬an Nobleman, who had in his rchard itir tree bearing b ru t, but one day he sawrioting from the root thereof, a, joui'gion, at which he rejoiced, saving, Thisill be a very fair tree ; but finding that ittcreased not in growth, asked the gardenerie reason, who answered, That the largeranches of the o'd tree kept the suu andfling showers from it: whereupon he esue-/;. - . I<-•» many to be cut oif, yet finding the bodyof the old tree Smpjire 1 the nour;shme:n ofthe young scion, he caused it to be levadown, which done, the young scion wither¬ed. Even so, said she, is your case ; youare the tree, and your son the scion, that isinciting your subject: to rise Uesinst yourlife that he may reign That shall not besaid the Emperor, for to-morrow he shallsurely die.The dr.y appointed bring come, the Prince fjwas delivered unto the executioner: Which ‘jPanti lus the first master hearing, he hasted |to the palace, and told the Emperor the fol- Itowing example.here once lived a lenight in this citywho had a son, whom leaving to ihe care of ,some nurses, he often went abroad, delight¬ing in hawking and hunting ; among hisdegs he had a grey-hound One day goingto a tournament, he left his hound and fal¬con at home, at which time, the cradle, inwhich the son was, was s anding in the hall,the nurses having left it, and the grey-hounds!eep'ng by it, the falcon espied a serpentcoming out of a hole in the wOl, going to¬wards ihe caiid upon which, shaking and j.fluttering his bells, he awaked the gr^y-fhound, who killed the serpent, and saved .the child, yet, in the burtle, the cradle wasoverturned, and the cnild was v helmed un¬der it, the grey-hound, lying down by it .and licking us wounds ; which the servantIIjl• iccc'n ran cnl tn ci t]»e uav t’ c n-wr. nwith :n<. cu .eluded the lx and had de*' ur-ed his s*xe ; whereupon the father struct offi Ithe hrund’s head, but after vards fonndihis mistake So, said the master, it willihrppen imto you — i.heti said the Emperor,[ lAIy Sen shall net die.\—CHAP. IV.i Ler.tuilus, the second Master's Intercession.The Empress hearing that the Mastera td prevailed with the Emperor, came, andjrr.ourmul.y besought him that his ron rr.ightye put to death, lest it happen to him as towdd boar, thus; There was a mighty Em-' oeror, whose empire was wasted by a boar,ivhtch ob iged the Emperor to proclaim,liat whosoever killed him, should have hisaughter in marriage, and the crown afterijis decease, Many attempted, but in vain,intil a shepherd, with only a staff, resolvedio venture on him, but beholding his great1 usks, See. was afiavd to touch hirr, there-pre betook to a tr^e, on which grew delici¬ous fruit, but the boar shaking it $o, he wasearful of its fading, therefore, threw downtie fruit thereof, which so satisfied him thate iay down to deep, in the interim the;,;i tepherd descended, and struck the beast totiie heart; and so 'won what the Empirerhad promised Consider then, my Lord, jtlie caie is yonrs ; you are the might* boar,,against which open force cannot prevail, bu£|secret fraud may deprive you of your life &empire, while you learken to these masters.Then, said the Emperor, he shall dieThe second master, named Le::tiiHus, °4ihearing that the Empress had agnin preran- _ed, c»me before the Emperor, entreating |him to spare his son’s life, lest it happen tothim as it did to a Roman knight that espou¬sed a beautiful wife, and fearing she would) istray, locked the doers every night, layingthe kty under his head, but she stole it fromthence, and went and sported with her gal¬lants, but one night, missing her, he boltedthp door; she returned and knocked, but heupbraided her for inconstancy, saying, shtshould stay till the watch seized her j whereupon she took two large stones, and threwthem in a well that was in the court-yardthen hid herself under the door. Cn whicithe knight thinking she had jumped into tinwell, came down to relieve her; when upon his opening the door, she slipped in, anbolted him out, calling for the watch to selzhim ; who adju ;ged him to stand in the pillory. This story so much moved -the Emper, that, says he, this day my Sen d:allme h a Pj v:Crataal the third Master's Intercession.The beinT exceedingly outrage-»,’"s ^rr,r,orr>r could find uotKing thatfury, but promised her hisKnight at Rome who spent great riches,and was reduced to poverty, so that he wastbout to sell his inheritance ; but his sonsand his two daughters urged the contrary jwhereupon he resolved with his son to breakinto the Emperor’s treasury \ he did so, andfook thence as much gold as both could car-y. They attempted it again a second time,nd the father going fir-t was caught ina trap ; whereupon he told the son t>j strikelofFhis head, least, on bemg discovered, his[family should die. The son accordinglycomplied, and bore away the head r but thenext morning, the body being found, was,by the Emperor's orders, dragged about theicity, with command, that wherever theyiheard any weeping, as the body passed by,ito enter that house, and convey chose there¬in, to the gallows, for of that house was helerd ; when the body came near the knight'st bouse, the daughter shrieked, when, to pre¬vent the discovery, the son wounded him-There lived says she, a10self, and insinuated that that was the cause,the officers were satisfied, and carried thebody to the place of execution, anJ. hang¬ed it up, yet the son would neither take itdown, nor bury the dead, though the fa¬ther died to save his Hie.--— Ev n so, saidshe is t^aur case with your son, who se^ksyour life and my ho 'or That shall not be,for to-morrow )u shall cite, said the Emp Tor.Wlun she had toid her story, Cr itoa thethird master came in, *aying, Dr.^d Sove¬reign if yonr son die, it shall happea toyou as it did to a kni ht, who killed a Pye,that he esceedingly lev .id—thu — i Knightmarried a wife, who toik to un.awfulpleasures; which being perceived by t ePye, (whom the k sight ha taught mostlanguages) he told h.s master v. hat had hap¬pened in his ab ence, for which the ladyhated him, and to prevent it for tie future,she untiled the h»use, and cast down STid,stones and wate" upon him, which the Pyetook for hail, rain and snow; so when hislord came h m“, he told he was almost kil¬led by reason of the heavy tempest that tellupon him. The wife hearing him aay so,answered. My Lord, you may now see theerror kr credi ;ng this b.rd, for there hasnot be n a faimr day in the memory tfman. The Knight, u,or. this, inquired ofius neighbours, who confirmed what shesaid, lie, therefore, broke the neck of theliPye : but after the deed, he sa’^r the houseuntiled, wkh the gravel, &c. standing onthe top of the house, which persuaded hinaithe Pye had been decived ■ -a—Deceived in¬deed, said the Emperor, and for the exam¬ple’s sake, m;j Son shall not die this dav.The Empress hearing this, answered. MyLord, in this city reigned an Emperor nam¬ed Tiberius who had seven counsellors,iwho being skilled in Magic, so ordered byItheir charms, that the Emperor’s eyes hada continual mist before them; but the Em¬press sitting at the table with her Lord,comforted him in the best way, desiring tocommand his chief counsellors on pain cf11 death, to restore him to sight; the Emperor‘then sent for the 7 magic counsellors, andcharged them to tell the reason cf his blind¬er ness, and to find a cure After long puz¬zling, they found a youth who interpreteda dream of a spring, which rising small,cosoon overflowed the ground, and the mani accordingly digging, found a great treasure,i ns the youth Ijait interpreted, t hey destiedi him to go with them, and he would be re¬warded. Coming before the Emperor, hedesired to be let into the royal bed-chamber,1 where, casting down the be< -clothes, there[ appeared a seeming well, fed with seventsprings, which the youth s.dd must be stop¬ped, ere he could have his sight in anotheriplace. Then he demanded of him, how mustthey be stepped? to which the youth an-13swefed ; the seven spm.gs signified his sevenrounsellors, who had usurped his royal au¬thority, casting a mist of delusion before hiseyes, that he nrght not behold their extor¬tions ; therefore, strike off their heads saidhe, and the springs shtl* cease. I o this heconsented, the springs vanish, d, & his sightwas restored. »Just so, said she is it withyou and your seven masters. On this he a-gain consented his Son should die.K,CHAP. VT.Ma'^uidrake, the fourth Master s Intercession^Know, Great Sir, s?id Malqttidrake tothe Emperor, There formerly lived in this-city, an old Knight, who married a young2,ady, who complained to her mother thrt»He was un appy in the marriage of this oldman designing to open her case to somepriest. From this her mother persuadedher, urging her to fry his temper i hemeans she ured were, to cut do** n. the finestpie: t in the garden, and put a fire under it;at mother time she dashed out the brains cfhis favorite Vound; and lastly, when heand his frs nds were sitti g at dinn r, shethrew all the dishes frcr.i off the table. Yetwith her excuses he seemed satisfied, & thatmorning she intended to go to the priest,he b.ought a surgeon into the chamber;c:»■Kl;l'--t if'ttt'154illncotnniandsd her to rise and be bled, where¬upon she began to intreat but said be, yourmad bleed must be let eut, and if you re¬fuse that. I will have }Otir heart’s biood -—Upon this she p rniitt.'d him to bleed her laboth arms, till she fab t 'd ; wsy : but ir-co-verirg, t.he sent for her mo'her and toldher the usaje Her rro h r, heiiag glad tohear of this correct.u»/ sale, t ha* oid metvsrevenge was sure, thou. h slow ; asking herhow she liked the priest t ho d' vil take thepriest, said she, Fit strive to please none hutmy husband lht> Emperor hearing this,sent to spare his Son. 1'he Empres utider-stanoin*, ;t, came and said. My Lord o.erthis city reigned Octavius, who temg trot-bled with the rebellion of his subjects, or¬dained his magician to devise a way how hemighi: know, «u -ny time, the state of theprovinces : Upon wh ch Virgilius the mostcrafty of them., raised a tower, and placedin it as many images as provinces, and inthe hand of each ?, be!!, which, by the se¬cret instinct of magic, rung out, if any re¬volt happened in the provii ce it was assign¬ed guardian of, so that -.he citizens instant¬ly airiving, suppressed the foes ere theycould make Lead , which being known tothe tributary nations, desirous to cast offthe Roman yoke, they devised how to de¬stroy the tower, and which, after a long de¬bate, was undertaken by four knights, who.bringing great treasure, hid it, in four pda-Hces near the walls of the city, and enteringin, they pretended to be sooth-sayers, andwould discover hidden treasure ; which b^-in^ known to the Emperor, he sent for them,who, pietending ,o dream, discovered thetreasure they had hid ; at last they pretendedto dream that under the tower lay a greattreasure, and, if the Emperor would permit, ;they would take it out; to which he consen¬ted : whereupon they undermined the towerand at break of day, left the city, and wereout cf sight when it fell At which the ci¬tizens beieg grieved, came to the Emperor ;and 'acquainted him with it ; ):ut under¬standing that through his cove tousnesS; *he imischief befel them, they carried him to themarket-place, and poured melted lead downhis throat; and ro buried him. i he enemy lsoon after came up^n the town, and took it,an i destroyui£ the inhabitants,'took all theirliche?. rh,- Empress then demanded ifhe knew the meaning i1 who replirti in thenegative. Well then, sa d she, the towerwith the images signify your body, wiih itsinteliecual faculties; as long as they remainstrong, and on a good foundation, you aresate ; but if you give yourself up to the flat¬tery of the masters you must excect to lall. I-‘Kather titan so, raid lie, they shell die withmy son..15chap, vrr;Josephus, the fifth Master’s Intercession.1Dread Sir. ! may I be« your at-.er.tion tohe following example  Hippocrates*i famous physician took to assist him his cou-in Galenious who soon bec .ir.e more ex- Npert than he, whereat he enceavoured to.!tide his art from him, though in vain, for0S prompt wit supplied other defects ; ohat sen ing h m to visit great persons inheir sickne s, he alurays cuied them whichireated such jealousies in ; lippocrates that hel|i!led and bur:eri him. But he f. lling sick,rdered his scholars to fni a ca k of water,i/hich they did and, though an hundredholes wer bor-d in it, yet none would is-5ue hence : whereupon, he said he was aend man, for as no water came out of thep.sk so no virtues came out of the herbs toreal Ins desease j but if his cousin had beeniiUvc he would have cured him ; thus com-..ilaming he died for this example, said‘he Emperor, my Son shall not die.I 'I he Empreso hearing of this new reprieve,a me. anti said : Great Sir, when the Kingf the Goths invaded Rome, he had a stew¬ard named Goad us, when one evening,ling merry with w me, he ordered him toH''MJbring him a beautiful woman, and hewould have a great toward ■, whereuponthe Steward compelled his wife to lyewith the King, brrgaining for a thousandpiect s of silver, and the Lady to depart eremorning. To this the king consenting, shewas brought, and the king enjoyed her;when, before day the husband crme, and en¬treated his Lord to dismiss her, but the kingrefused, saying, she pleased him so weil thatshe should sleep with him longer ; whereatlie being much disturbed, told him she washis wife, and that, f -w lucre, he had forcedher to his arms : At which, the King movedto anger, bade him depart on pain of death,.. which he did ; and the King maintained heras his own wife For this example, said theEmperor, mg Son shall di:y to-morrow.titiC H A P. VUI.Cleophzs, the sixth Masters Itttercession.Cleophas came and said, 1 Here lived inthis city, a knight, who married an extraor¬dinary beautiful Lady, whose voice was so.charming, that she ravished the hearers One day as she sat singing, with the case¬ment open, three favorite k tights of theErtip ror n ssed by, they were all muchInii17taton with h*r vo:ce and nergon ; they eaciitook convenient times (v/uheut acqu v’ntingcne another) to ire. t abo” ■ enjoynr.ent; towhich she i^emingly c rrsent-d In conside-raticn es \he was but poor they brought ahundred florb s a-p.ece, and she appointedthem to come sing y at iT ft --t ti r.es. andshe would receive them : which done she ac--qus.in’ed her husband, advuing him to standwith his sword drawn, and, as they entered,to kdl them; which he performed, and '.ak-ing away their money, threw -heir bodies in¬to the sea. Soon after the knight and hisLady quarrelled, and he striking her, shecried out in the Hearing of many, O youmonster ! wil you kill mt, ae you did thethr?e knights They being missrd, createda sutpicion, upon which they w:-re both sei¬zed, confessed the fact, and were afterwardsexecuted.—Then, said the Emperor, mi/ Sanshall not dieUpon this, the Empress came and said,My Lord, In Armenia reigned a king, whohad a beautbul wife, on whom ho coated ;and that none other might ei.’oy Her, heconfined her in a castie, End kept the kevshim self.The queen, after four days confinement,dreamed she saw a knight, who was ^nam®cured with her, and the na less with him —Now there was a kni. lit who h d dreamed ofher beauty* and lek his country to see her,kut finding she was confined, rode aboutthe cast.e. Lop:.13 It look out at thewir.Vo'*.', aud he find means to diucover htipassion: Not long ci:cl hi* expectations fail,for tlie Lady beholding him, concluded hev^as ike man she behe d in her dream ) and.os lie daily frequented the place she tookan cpportu; • y to drop a letter, which hetook up, and so depared, ceniuking withhimself how he might answer her expecta¬tion^, v hich he determined thus : That hewould Insinuate himself into the king’s fa¬vour which hi did by his great wisdom instate affairs, insomuch that the king madehim steward cf his hou*eh"l<i •, and, accord¬ingly, ordered a heu e to be built adjoiningto the c ttle for him, through tfee greatbuilding of which, the Knight contrived tocut the wall, and so to make a private wayinto the castle, Sind then for tecrecy, slewthe workmen. When he entered, he wasjoyfully received by the queen, who per¬mitted him to take his fib of iove, givinghim the ring the king gave her on the wee¬ding day ; which the king noticed as hes ept in hit presence ; but he perceiving thediscovery, feigned sick and cbtained hcencato retire, conveying rhe ring to her again,e:c the king ca'r.e to enquire after it: Isaylie often brought her to the king’s table,pretending she was a lady of his acquaintancewhom he intended shortly to wed Thenthe king looking earnestly said. Well, if lL d net the keys of Te castle, 1 should al-1III'Itl4)\ (ter;M*iSt IInmost esyear it s^as nsy queen j before isccould go to prove it, she was returned, indin her usual dress. In the end. the Kui-’htdesired the i\ing to give him this i.ady inmarriage, which he did giving t em greatriches, with * ship to convey them to a portin Gieece, where the Knight had large pcs-sessions, and solemnly taking leave, they setsail, t;he King sendin* his eyes rf' r them,ti 1 they were out of sight, and afterwards,went to divert himself with the Queen, butcoming into the castle, behold she was fbui !& he, suspecting the scheme, fell into greatlamentations. Even so, said site, will itbefal you, if you thus give way to yourmasters. To prevent the like, said the Em¬peror, they, iMiih tnij Stnj to-morrow shall die.CHAP. IX.Dwc’es, the Seventh Master's Intercession,Ths seventh Mast«*r named Diodes,came and thus spak? : Know Sir that in E-phesus lived a Knight who married a Ladv,upon whom he doated ;.o, that he could no:endure her out of his sigh't but playing atchess, and he holding a pen-km.e in hishand, she hit her finger gainst it, whichtrie Knight seeing, fell into a swoon, and20gave up the shost : Wlr rettpon she staidmo’trning by his tomb, bo h r fr dsbu'*h her a house nigh to it to to ;r:i in. Now • hen a moietActo* whs to b-' hanged,’twas he law of the com.trv, tha th* h -:fFwas to watch him on th galb.ws the ensu¬ing night. Tli- Sheriff discovering a lighttit the window cf th”. above house, came thi¬ther to warm hims^f, and on re. crritrg,found the thief stolen ; SVh.reat ha con¬cluded ro go ba-T to the widow, ard therebewail his mi.fortune, and desire her toput him in a way what to dot Wh;r?u^>onsite, pausing, fold him. that at the price ofhis leve, the would put him in a v/ay what i,to do, which vs as tins : A few days ago, saysshe, my Lord was b£sr:ed, take and h-ang thim up instead of the thief. But. said the *bheriff, the thief had lost his ears, his teeth, ! »and his stones, a? likewise in being taken,received s wound on his head. It is in thypower then, said she, to serve my Lord sorNay. said he, nrt I. Then, said she, for thelove of you, I will periorm it: And taking ;a swore, she accordingly did it. So they :*dragged him to the gallows, and so hanged :him up. This done, she very urgently de- •manned of the Sheriff to fulfil his promise :But he replied, O thou wickedest of wo¬n' er. how couid’st thou be so cruet to the •-dead body of thy husband ? Therefore I wi Ikeep mv word, and not marry while thmi•livect. -And vtith that drew his sword, and-K21lew her—^Then, said the master, you havetnderstood vhat I related ? ro which he re¬lied, Full well, and am of op oio ;h washe wor t . f women, therefore, for the words->f a woman, my Sen shill mi die.e H A P. X.The Prince's Ccmphint cf the Empress.The seventh day the Masters broughtthe young Prince to the Emperor, who S'id,Hail, Royal Father, ETeav-Gn can witness thefalsity cf the accusation laid against me ;for, instead of nty having tempted the chas¬tity of the Empress 1 wac she that emptedime to lewdneso with her, which 1 refused ;nd because I would no- peak, (the planetshaving threatened rrv Life, if in seven days I<: spoke one word) she fell, into a rage and ac-icased me: Nor is she nice in her honor,for, under the (over of a ferrrie garment,she i-eeps a outh tc. supply y. u- place ; andsend fet her attend?,nts, and i will make itappear. At tlr the Err.percr ordered allt--. them to he c. lied in, and the person thePunce pitched upon, proved to be a rm ntwho confessed he had i?h w.ih the Empressseveral tir es; this so enraged the Emperor,that he had then cast into prison, and thePrince told the loliowiag story.——-In Pale-tStine Jived a ini?vt, \vho had one ,o,-whom he held in hijjh esteem ; and for h:noble sccompUshmsn s, caused him to btaught all the arts and sciences in whichbeing perfected, he sent for him ho : c, anwhile he sat at dinner, a nightingale sonsweetly, at which the Knight said, Ah, hosweet, a song is this, could any one but internret it ! to which the youth answeredthrt he would undertake it, if he would nobe displeased ; hut his father commanderhim to interpret it Then, said the youththe bird in her song, expressed, that Jwould be a great Lord, and that my fatherwould hold the water, and my mother atowel to wash my hands. Whereupon the fa¬ther rrowing angry, took him up. and running to the sea, cast him in, where he swamto an uninhabited island, and stayed three orfour days, till a ship passing, took him upand sola him to a duke in Egypt, who find¬ing him wise, made him ruler of his house.It happened the King of that country wastroubled wiih the cry of three ravens, anddemanded of the wi e men the cause, butthey could not nsolve him, therefore, heproc aimed, that if any could tell the mean¬ing, or cause the noise to cease, he shouldhaw his daughter to wife, and the kingdomafter his decease Upon this, Alexander I f(the youths name) went to the King, say¬ing, tha* the ravens were the two old ones>nd their young one, vfhich the male deciar-11i«frt‘4i*11lIIcii was his righ^ sffii'g t;e hr^d fed him inthe tin.v of a famine when the female flewinto a f. r country to shift for herself, & lefthim to per sh ; when cn the other side,, thefemale alledged, she had t;ken pains in lay¬ing the egg and brooding it. wherefore theyoung one appertained to her. And rowO King, raid Alexander, they come to youto decide the controversy; give judgment,and thep the ravens sha ! treuble you nomore Then, replied the King, it seemsgood to me, that t) e young one abide withthe male ; and on his saying this, the ravenstook wing, and so returned no more. Ihe Monarch thus delivered, confirmed hispromise, and advanced Alexander to placesof dignity. Alexander travelled to home,»nd there became carver to Titus, whosedaughter became in love with him, but hisheart being in Egypt, Lcdowick was sentin his stead, & A lexander sailed into Egypt.But one named Guido discovering an intriguebetween Lodowick & the Emperor’s daugh¬ter, sent him a challenge, who engaged A-lexander, but he being to celebrate the nup¬tials, sent Lodowick to celebrate them in h:splace, on comiition that he would not riflethe princess of her virginity.Alexander arrives at court; the Emperorsupposing him to be Lotiowick, rejoiced andthe lis1- being i ady the combatants entered,and, after a fierce fight, Alexander cut offhis foe $ head, and sent it to the princess.--2+The Emperor ^if:h;ly extolled him ; but heSaying his father was i lf, took his leave, &went back t<3 Fgypt *—Seme time after,Alexander was made kin^ cf that cou: ryand visited his father and mother; one day,before dinner according to the inte pretation f|he had given of the bird’s language his fa-given ot tne bird's languagether brought him the bason, and his motherthe towel, but he refused to let them hold ei¬ther, commanding his servants to do it - . —Dinner being ended, he asked them, howmany children they had, they said none.Had you ever any ? said the king, Alas !raid the father, we had one son, but he wasdrowned long ago ; well look you to it, saidthe king, for if i find it otherwi e, you mustexpect no mercy Then they fell upon theirknees, & confessed the whole matter; whenthe king, mildly raising them from the ground,discovered himself to themUpon hearing this story, the Emperor re¬signed the government to his sou Dioclesian,who demanded justice on^the Empress andher paramour, which was granted, the for¬mer being bmned, and the latter hanged &■quartered. And the Emperor dying soon af¬ter, left his son in full possession of the em®pire.K I N I S.)