vDoor of SalvationO P E N’D:i Or, A loud and (hirl Voice fromHeaven, toUnregeneratc Srn-! ners on Earth :1 Plainly (hewing the Neceflity ofI opening your Hearts, that theKing of Glory, may enter in,or elfe he will open Hell’sMouth to devour you.']2 Tbcf. i. 8. Tor he is comings ( faith the A-I poftle ) in flaming Fire, to take Vengeance3 on them that know not Gffd, and that obey notII the Gefpel of Jefus Chnfi.i.;! By Mr. SAMUEL RUTHERFOORD.t^Edinburgh, Printed and fold in the Swan-Clofe, 1747."OF SCOTIAPP ^1 VII ►)■'-" C 5 )CQOQ X^B^QOaaCQaOQbe everlafting Door of Mercyand Salvation opened, &C*| ev. iii. 20. Behold, I /land at theDoor and knock: If any ManheaY my Voice and open theDoor,Ivoillcome in to him,andI [up with him, and he with me.\ T hath pleafcd the fnoft wife Difpoferli of all Things, out of the Riches of hisJ c Grace, to render Jcfus Chrift to poorS t and undone Sinners, and alfo it pleafed( e Lord Jefps, not only to die for Sinners,redeem them from Death, and the Curfe:he Law, that he might open a Way forSinners to return to God; but is plcafcdftand knocking at the Door of their Hearts,entreat your Souls to be reconciled tp God,jnd therefore, as you love your Spuls, as you •ve your Bodies, as you would not bringamnation to your felves; hear and fear*td do no more wickedly, but open yourtrd and ftony Hearts, that the King oflory may-enter in. O Sinner ! now ChriftA 2 is( 4 )it landing and calling to thy Soul, Iftfon*wilt bear and open, I will come in unto thenNow Chrifl is laying, I know thy Work?,.!1know well enough, that thou had been a Blaf-phemer, or a Drunkard, or a WhoremoD*ger, or a Thief, or a Sabbath-breaker, oralScorner: Yet I (land at the Door this Day,,and knock, I will receive thee unto Mercy, 1will forgive all thy Sins, I will accept, 1 will'heal, I will lave thy Soul, if thou wilt o*pen thy Heart this Day ur.to me, and letme in. O Brethren for Chrift his fake, re-fufe not Chrift, do not refufe Chrift, do not:reject nor neglcft fo great a Salvation, left:you perilh.1. Confider the necefllty youhavc of him;give me Children, or elfe I dic.ftith Rachel',.Or give me Chrift, or elfc'I perifh for ever..Can you be favdd without Chrift ? And ifyou may have Chrift, but for the opening theDoor; then while it is called to Day, theirhear and open to him. If the Door of Grace!flhould be fhur, thou would'ft be fhut upwith Vengeance for ever.2. Confider, what Anfwer thou wilt be able:to make at the great Day, if thou wilt bar-;<Ien thy Heart, and not open : Why, whatwilt thou, What can’ft thou plead for thy felfat the Day of Judgment ? Wilt thou fay,,the Gofpel never offered thee Chrift ? Why,,thou haft heard this Day, If any Man wtSfli hear and open, I will tome in, and {up withiM him. Will thofc fiy, I would have opened11 my Heart, had it not been for the Love of'a:! Sin, or for Eafe, or Liberty, or Honour, or|| Friends or Companions ? Oh, how willMenfy and Angels hifs at thee ! This is the Perfbn,% who for Luft’s fake forfook his Mercies,whoao: for a little vanity negleflcd his own Salvati-ici on: O! how wilt thou curfe thy felf, that for/ii nothing, nay, for that which is worfe thanm nothing, thou haft put off Chrift and hi*Salvation l Therefore Men, Brethren andf j Fathers, hearken unto me, a-s Mofes faid to|: the ifraelites \ So this Day I propone untoyou Blejftng and Cnrfing, Life and Death:« Salvation, if you open to Chrift ; and Dam-oi]! nation, if you refute Chrift.For the Lord’s fake,chufc not Curfing butif Blelling : Chufe not Death, but Life ; chufen not Hell, but Heaven ; chufe not Sin, butChrift; tho’ you have formerly flighted him:l! If you will now regard him, tho’you have1 | formerly contemned him, yet if you willI praife him, tho’ you have formerly refilled,if yet you will yield, if yet you will con-| font, if yet you will become willing to openunto Chrift; Chrift will be yours, Mercy willbe yours, Salvation will be yours.And what would you have more ? What! will not all this do? Will not Mercy alureyou ? Will not Love conlltain you ? Then give< 6 ygive me leave to reprove you,an<laffright you,it be poflible) out ofchofe Depths of Sa¬tan, into which you are fallen; However Iam refolved, whether you will or not, andthe Lord fallen it upon your Souls.I. In the Bowels of Love and Mercy, letme beg thee to ash thy Soul this Queftion,How long will this Life, and the Comfortsof it lall ? The Soul is immortal,and mull ne¬ver die, but it mull have a Being fome wherein all Eternity.The Worlds happinefs, Is it everlafiing ?No furely; thy Money and thy Corn, andthy Land, will do thee no Good in the greatDay : Oh J What hall thou laid up for theWorld to come ? Is the Door of thy Heartopen to Chrill ? Alas! Is thy poor Soul un¬armed all this while ?giiejl. 2. What will become of thee, whenthis Life, and aH the Comforts thereof arcgone ? Oh,hard hearted Sinner! This broadWay which thou walkefl in, will never leadthee to the promis'd Land; thy Gold andSilver-Key will never open Heaven's Gatefor thee; thy Care of this World’s Good,will not plead for thee before the Judge; allthy careful Friends and Acquaintance, withwhom thou hall fpent many joyful Hours,their good Words will Band thee in no Bead.Then thou wilt be ready to cry; O,Whereis the Chrifl, that I have dilpis’d ! O, whereisC 7 )| is the Jefus, which I have refilled ? Will heiplead for me? No furely: But go to thei>iifJods whom thou haft chofe; O, what willa become of me / Muft I not die? 0,whi-r iher will Death carry me ; into which of theilegions of the World will Death land me,titherof Light or Darknefs? To which of theMwo Regions am I now travelling? Cer-liainly the Day of Pleafure, or wordly Pro-it, the Broad-way of the World is not theway to tranlport me to Heaven and everlaft-1 Happinefs: Say, O Sinner, to thy Soul,tat, muft I be taken from all my Glory andijjreatnefi, from all my Delights and Dallian-‘jes, and be thrown, like Lucifer, Son of thedoming, from all my Brightncfs, into Black-iflfs and Darknefs for ever ? when Death hathjlofed up my Eyes, muft I awake into ever-ijiafting Flames ? Ay Sinner thou, thou (halt1 uthout Remedy, unlcfc thou open to theord Jefus Chrift.Queft. 3. Ask thy Soul, on which Handou art like to (land in the Day of Judg-icnr, on the Right-Hand, or on the Left, a-jong the Goats, if thou wilt not hear and o-ien now, if thou wilt not open thy Heartslow, be allured the Devil will open Hell’s,douth for thee; what will be the End of thofcdys, which now make fo glad thy Heart ?fou are now in the Broad-way to Deftrufti*an, and utter Separation from God’s Prefencefor( 8 )for ever: Thy Pleafures here we may judge';of; But Oh! Who can tell the Thoufandpart of theft Fiery Torments, to which thou^art liable in the other World ?Whilif thou died, thou fhalt be a damnedCreature, whilft thou liveft, thou art fedlike a Beaft by common Providence, and arta meer flranger to feeding Promifts: If thoulooked upwards, God is frowning^ and hi^Wrath is revealed from Heaven againft thee*Rom. i.The Heavens and their Hod are ready:every Moment, to difeharge God’s Curfts, i:like Thunder Bolts, againd thee: If thoulook’d downward, thou may’d fee Hell gap¬ing and" opening its Mouth to fwallow theeup quick, many Dangers attend thee everyDay, many Miftriesevery Moment; Legionsof Devils dand about thee,watching thee, andwaiting only for the Leave of God to dragthy Soul into the Lake of Fire.Ah,when tBou died, Man, what mud thouthen do ? When the Captain Death Jlrkkt,whoft Armies of Wovles will fall upon thee;Look to it, and remember, thou wert oncewarned, led thou die eternally. Sr. AuftiantPrayer was, O Lord rack me, hew me, burn,me herei, but fpare me hereafter. As long asthou refuftd to hear Chrid’s Voice, thouhad a Hell upon Earth : It is not the mul¬titude of thy Companions, that go thitherfiiAll any Whit leften thy Torments, hotrather increafc them; thy Life that hathbeen full of Wordly Joy, ftiall end in dead*ly Woe.All you, into whole Hands this little Bookfhall come, O, let me beg you ro confider, inthofe Bowels of Love you have to your ownSouls, how your Hearts can endure to think,of being (hut out of Heaven, out of Blefcfednefs for ever: Ask your Heart thefeQueftions, Can I burn ? Can I endure the ven¬geance of eternal Fire ? Will boiled Oyl,burning Brimftone, fealding Lead, a glowingOven, a fcorching Furnace, bean eafy Lodg¬ing for me ? O, Why my Soul, wiltthou notbe perfwaded to repent 1 Is there too muchPain in that ? Thou art ready to fay, I can¬not bear a- Crofr nor any Affli&ion, a Scoff ora Reproach: Talk to thee, of cruifying.theflefh, of parting with thy wordly Compani¬ons, of enrring in at the ftrait Gate; O thefeare hard Sayings, who can bear them 1But how wilt thou do, to dwell withdevouring Fire? How wilt thou dwellwith everlafling Burnings ? Whatfoever thouthink'B now, think what Hell will be whenthe Day comes, thou muft defeend into it;Thou may’fl drink or laugh away thy Fearof it, but what will it be to thee, when thoufeeleft thy felf wrapped up in the Flames ofit, and not a Drop of Water to cool thy( 10 )Tongue ! Think on Hell, O Soul, anJ thenthink on Chrift, and confider, if a Rcdemerfrom filch Mifery, be not worth the accep¬ting of I Think on Hell, and think on Sin,and carnal Pleafures and Delights, confiderhow they will relifti with thee, when thusfaired with everlafting l ire: Arc thefethePrice for which thoufclleft thy Soul to Hell?Oh ! Bid thele Lulls and Pleafures be gone,bid your Companions, and Sinj, be gone; andtho’you loved them well, and havefpcnt yourTime finfully with them, yet tell them, youmuft not burn for them, that you will notdamn your Soul to pleafe your Flelh.Having thus as briefly as may be, laid downthe ufe of Terror, which, I hope, will awakenfame poor Souls, out of the Depth of carnal Se¬curity : Now I (ball proceed to the la ft Ufe ofEnouragemcnt; to encourage poor fecure Sin- . iTiers to venture, to lay faft Hold on him before Ithat it be too late.Oh, poor Soul! Hall thou ke^t Chrift out along Time, and art thou not yet refolv’d toopen thy Heart to him ? What (hall I fayto thee. Let me fay this, Chrift waits flillfor thee, Chrift is willing ftill to receive thee,then why wilt thou undoe thyfelfbyne-gledh'ng fb great a Salvation? Let the confi-J • _ -C 1L . H4./T. ... L. •   -f :deration, of the MelTage Chrift brings you, of ithe Errand he comes on, (it is nodifmal onehe brings, it is no dreadful Errand.) If 1?■' Cbrift 1:( )i lihrift had come to defiroy thy Soul, Couldi :le have had left welcome than you gave him?)h, for your Soul's fake,receive him / Oh yeools, when will ye be wile? Come untothrift, and he will have Mercy on you, andeal all your Backflidings and love you freely.But fome poor Soul will be ready to fay,: have a Defire to come to Chrift, but I am a-;iraid,Chrift will never receive fuch a wretch-d Sinner as I, who have Hood it out fo longgainft him. For anfwer to this, give me-cave to give you fome Direflions.i i. Ah poor Soul, art thou willing to comeJ o Chrift ? Then will Chrift in no wife!aft thee out, if thou comeft to him.poor,Maiderable, blind and naked ; O Sinner, comelot to him in thy Strength, but come thouUnd fay, O Lord, here is a poor Soul notjiworth a Farthing, Q Lord make me rich ini:Faith ; O Lord, here is a mifcrable Soul,tiLord have Mercy on me; here is a poor blindteoul, Lord enlighten me from above; herei is a poor naked wretch, O Lord lave me, left■nI perilh; for I cannot he!f> my felf.I; HueB. 2. Come to Chrift by believing injtbim; Ay, when thy poor Soul is linking head-fllong into Hell, and fees no way to efcape,:i the fearful Wrath of God, hanging over thy8Head, catch thou then at fuch a Time fallHold on Chrift: Oh then apprehend, andi apply all bis Benefits to thy Soul: Come( 12 ^this way, aod grafp him in the Arms ofthjFaith; and fay, I believe in thee, help thomy Unbelief. And the Anftver, which tivLord will give thee, will bethus; Beit accordirig as thou ‘wilt. Let Cbrifi be in your Hand,and the Promife in your Eye; and no Doubt,*ho' thou haft been a Rebel and a Traitor, yetJefus Chrifi having received the Gifts for the!Rebellious, will fhow Mercy to thee and re¬ceive thee.DireB. 3. Come to Jefus Cbrijt, by re¬penting and forfaking all thy Sins; thoucanftnever come to the Wedding-Supper withoulthe Wedding-Garment; the old Man muft btftaken away, before all things can be madenew: ?er. iii. 14. O Jerufalem <wap thy Heartfrom Wickedntfs, that thou mayft be favedfwhich, God, of his infinite Mercy, grant wemay all do, and be blc/Ted for ever, thro]Jefus Chrifi our Lord and Saviour.FINIS.