THERICHES of CHRIST,ANDGlorious treafure of heavenly joys, >:HELD FOR I'M AND ■'S**'*'■*/(.*■?Expounded to all good Chriftians,Wherein unfpeakable • Bleflings are pro-pofed for the Encouragement andComfort of all that will drive andlabour to work cut their Salvationwith fear and trembling.By Mr. JOHN BUN YAN.^ • VSTIRLING:PRINTED AND SOLD BY C, RANDALL,y l 8 O T «-THE( 2 )RICHES OF CHRIST.2 Con. via. c>.For ye know the grace of our lord jejmGhrifl, that tho he was rich, yet foryour fakes he became poor, that ye throhis poverty, might be rich.UPON this conficleratipn, we inayraife our large ft thoughts to an ex¬ceeding height. For, if wc purchafe thispearl of great price ; if we buy this field.We have a portion laid up, fufficient toPltisfy the moft defirous mind and crav¬ing appetite, not only in this world, butin the world to come ; the confiderationof which made the apoftle cry out, asin a rapture, ‘ O the it eighth and depth* of the riches and mercy of God in* ChrifV Telus.’ In this there is no-fadingriche?,'that ‘ make themiHves wings andI ily away,’ or are peri (lung and cannotreprieve us in our greateft nccellity : Rutthis is an unfpeakable and everlafdngtreafure, beyond what the world canafford ; this tfeafure of riches is abovethe value of a thou land worlds. Wouldyou have length of days ? here you may,End it held cut in, .one hand. WouldTHE RICHES OF CHRIST. 3you have riches and honour ; it is tobe found in the other hand. Wouldyou afpire to true greatnell* ? here youhave a crown, not for a time, but for e-ver and ever. 4 Be thou faithful unto1 death, and I will give thee a crown of‘ lite, fays our hleiTed Lord and Saviour.[Would you be a king ? here is a king¬dom worthy of the higheft ambition,where you iliall reign with our blefled.Lord, not only for an age, but endlefsjuges, even to all eternity, as kings andIpneils. -Would you have joy an 1 com-iiort ? here it is, for holy Davrid wirneC*|feth, ‘ d'hou Vvdlt fhew me the pat a ofI’life, in thy prefence is iulnefs of joy,fl and at thy right hand are pleasures forevermore,’ Ffal. xvi. 12 Wiuld youaave wherewithal to refresh you ? herelows the river of the waters of life;here’s the heavenly manna, the fpiritualood cf angels. Would you be alwaysn light? here needs no fun by day, nornoon by night ; the Lamb is the lamps,md the light of his countenance fills thenanfions ot eternity with dazzling glo-> and rays of brightnefs, tranfeend-eg all the brightnefs this world is Ga¬mble of, far beyond what the"fpn af-ords, wrhen fliining in ins full luftre.4 the RICHES OF CHRIST.compared with a glimmering taper. Ifthe qileen of Sheba came to admire the■wifdom of Solomon, ‘ Behold a greater‘ than Solomon is here !’ Behold here thewifdom of the Father, the eternal Word,by whom all things were made that aremade ; and yet ho offers himfelf withall that can be counted rich and glori¬ous, to thole that will freely embracelira tender love. O what would not fomemen do for a fmall portion of earth, ,which at laft they muff be fepararedfrom ? Flow do we behold worldlingsgrovelling below after vain tranhtorythings, and [paring no pains, coft, ha¬zard, nor danger, to acquire tranlkorytrifles, and negletB to purchafe, whenRich a pearl of price is to be had ! nay,even neglect to defire it ; preferring aimall weight of periihing earth, beforean exceeding weight of glory ; preferring?!,ficknefs. trouble, and diie.des, beforelife, cafe, and immortal happineff ; Oconfider, how infinitely unequal theterms are ; what infinite gain may behad for the like time, if well improven,that is fpent in feeking after riches,even t ran Rending the largeft account :for, as the apollle tells us, ‘ Eye hath notear hath not heard, nor hath it en-iTHE RICHES OF CHRIST. 5tered into the heart of man to conceivewhat God hath laid up for thofe that loveI and obey him.’ All precious things tojj which this world gives a name and modeileem, are not comparable to them, asa drop of water to the ocean, or a grainof fand to the whole mafs of earth. Andhow great then ought our love to be to¬wards him, that not only renders usthis treafure, but Hied his rich redeem-ing blood to purchafe it for us, and todraw us out of the fnares of deftrudtion1 when we lay in darkneis and the iha-!| dow of death.How great ought our veneration tobe for lb tranfeendant a love and favouras this ! when the innocent fubmitted todie to fave the guilty .from the power! of the fecond death ; ‘ for he hath deli-| ‘ vered us from the wrath that is to come/('! 1 Theff i. 10. fo that, ‘ to them that are; ‘ in Chrift, there is no condemnation/Rom. viii. 1. This being the main pro-mile of God, 4 That whofoever believ-4 eth in him, fllould not perifh, but have4 everlafting life/ John iii. xy, 16. Forthis great conqueror has overthrownhim that had the power of death, (thatis, the devil,) delivering them, whothrough fear of death, were all their6 THE RICHES OF CHRIST.life-time, fubjeCi to borcage, havingfpoiled principalities and powers, andmade a triumph over 'death and hell ;baffles the king of terrors, and the enemyof mankind, who laboured earneflly toenflave and bring to final deftrmflion allthe fons of Adam ; and had undoubtedlyfeen his implacable malice accomphfhedupon the whole race, had not this greatPrince diverted himfelf of his glory for atime to free us from bondage, and putus into a rtate of poflibiiity of fdvation.How can we, in thefe thoughts, dootherwife than break out in a rapturewith holy David, ‘ I will magnify thee,and I will prairfe thy name for ever andever. Great i& the Ford and marvellous,worthy to be praifed. There is no end ofthy righteoufhefs. The memorial of thyabundant Jd-ndncfs ihall be file wed, andmen.fliall fing of thy righteoufnefs : thatthy power and thy glory, and the migh¬tiness of thy kingdom is an everlartingkingdom, and thy dominion endureththroughout all ages. The Lord upholdethall fuch as fall, and lifteth up thole thatare bowed down. 1 he eyes of all waitupon thee, O Lord, and thou givert themmeat in due feafonf Pialm exxv. i , &c.Thefe confid$rauon$j I think, ShouldTHE RICHES OF CHRIST. ' »raife and influence the minds of men,with dcflres fmfuble to the longing af¬ter a treafure fo ineftimable, a pear]worth more than ten thonfands, a jewelno where die to be purchafed, no whereelfc to be found ; a kingdom of all plea-lures and delights : thele thoughts madethe kingly prophet to have but a mean .ofteem of earthly pomp and grandeur,compared with this, when he cried our.c How amiable are thy dwellings, C^ Lord of holts ! my foul panteth aftei1 thee, as the hart panteth after the water-‘ brooks,’ Sec. And St. Paul countecall things as dung and drofs to the loycoi Chriit, and couvagkoufly affirmed, .‘ That neither heighth nor depth, princi-4 palities nor powers, things prelent, noi‘ things to come,’ dec. Ihould be able tofeparate him from the love or' God, whichwas in Jefus Clirifl, the biefled and a,-miable Lord of life, glory and immor¬tality, the faireft among ten thoufand.But here let us connder ; to gain theriches of Chrifl we mufl give up our-ielves wholly to his divine will, bothfoul and body, committing ourfelvesto him, as to the hands of a faithful Re¬deemer ; for feeing he has redeemed usfrom cur enemies, and, therefore, we8 THE RICHES OF CHRIST.need nor Hand in fear of them, accord¬ing to that of Ifaiah xiv. 2. * Fear not*‘ for I have redeemed thee but as weare taught in the next words, we fhouldall the days of our life worlhip him with¬out fear; and when at any time we havegrieved fo good and gracious a God, by(inning againft him, remembrance ofour redemption fhould encourage us toreturn unto him, feeing he, as our Sa¬viour, hath redeemed and bought uswith fo great a price, therefore, we oughtto acknowledge him to be our Lord, inright of redemption, and ourfeives notto be our own, but his fervants ; for,therefore, Chrift died and rofe again tolife, that he might be the Lord of thequick and the dead, Rom. xiv. 16. And,if we acknowledge him to be our Lord, jwe muft be careful to do his will, orelfe we in vain do call him fo, as didthofe he reproved, &c. ‘ Why do ye callme Lord, and do not the things that Icommand you ?’ Luke vi. 4. Chrift diedfor all, that thole who live, fhould nothenceforth live to themfelves, but to himthat died for them, and rofe agam, 1Cor. iv. 5.This confideration cauied the primi-N tive Ghliftians to feal their teflimonies .THE RICHES OF CHRIST. 9with their blood, running valiantly toflames and tortures, and not accepting;any deliverance that might render themfun worthy of the riches and mercy ofI their Redeemer, who had fo freely laid[down his life to purchafe them glory: and immortality, in a kingdom that' lads as long as God is God, and thati is endlefs, and to alUeternity ; here weI have (even in cur befl date) but a glimpfe1 of the glory that fhall be revealed, antiI how often have good Chridians defpifed:nnd trampled on all the riches, honourland glory, this world could give, and;i embraced all the miferies we fuppoleican make a man tho mod milerable ofi creatures, to follow the guidance of thatI marvelloui light that has been revealed ;1 nothing but the riches of Chrid heldI forth in his meritorious death and paf-Iflon, could fatisfy to bound the largej defirc of their fouls : No worlds below,; tho’ immutable, adorned with all thegaudy vanities, and momentary plea¬sures, could balance the lead thoughtjof eternal happinefs, and many timesraptures of joy, in holy and pious eou-j templations, have railed them to heavenitfelf, in imagination, wliiid their bo¬dies have remained on earth, and made10 THE RICHES OF CHRIST.(A' ; C' > vvwiin.1, WILil<jt Paul, die daily to fin and die corruptlion ol die ildli, to live to Gbrift inrightCQUibefs and purity of fpirit ; thatfo they might juftly lay claim to his me-1i i i, and the riches anu treat ares of irismcicy. foi ;ro doubt the conhderation ■nf the flupeuduous redemption that hehtad wrought for the Ions and daughtersot men, occafioned what Sc. John law, ••Rev. iv. 9. ‘ And when thele beails (wholei haracler you will had at large in thaTHE RICHES OF CHRIST, -i ichapter) gave glory and honour, andthanks to him that fat opon the throne,who liveth for ever and ever ; the four andtwenty elders fell down before him thatfat upon the throne, and w or (hipped himfor ever and ever; and cad their crownsbefore the throne, faying, Thou an wor¬thy, O Lord, to receive honour and pow¬er ; thou haft created all things, and forthy pleafure they are and were created.5Could we have a prcfpect, though ina vifion, of holy men, whole fouls areredeemed from the earth, and triumph¬ing, fing praifes and hallelujahs in thehighed heaven ; with what wonder andamazement the riches and mercy of ourblclled Lord, tranfport and carry them! away; we would truly and feelinglyI fay, with the apodle, 4 It is good for us| ‘ to be here that is, to be in a date andl pcffibility of gaining the like happy vi-.| don of the divine beatitude ; we ihouldthen look upon every thing elfe as darkand dull, and conclude them but drofsand dung. St. Paul, when wrapt intothe third heavens, though he knew notwhether in the dedi or fpirit, law andheard things fo unutterable, that histongue perhaps was not capable of e»preding words fpitablc to give mankind12 THE RICHES OF CHRIST,an. account of them, tho’ he had thoughtfir, or been difpofed to reveal them, andafter that we find his mind inflamedafter fuller fruition of them ; life itfelf *(that was to difmifs him from the low¬er world) feemed tedious to him, and !made him court death, the king of ter- jrors, fo dreadful to the greateft part ofmen, to fet him at liberty, as appearsby his defiring to ‘ be diflolved, and to4 be with Chrifl.’ Winift worldlings arecontending for earthly treafure, that is of ,jfmali duration, and cannot give the l^afl; |real content, let us raife our fouls to |take a profpedl of the true riches, thetreafures of everlafting duration, even [the riches of Chrift’s mercy and lovetowards miserable finners ; who, whenlaid in darknefs and the fhadow ofdeath, gare his life a ranfom for us, toappeafe his Father’s juflice.O let not the confideration of world¬ly treafure make you turn a'flde fromfollowing this rich mine, this goldenvein of heavenly treafure ; let nothingHand in competition, or be thought toodear to part withal upon this account,fo that we may not lofe, for trifles, thismolt excellent of all riches promifed tous in the gofpel.THE RICHES OF CHRIST. i« |/‘ And-every one (fays our blefTed Sa¬viour) that has forfaken houfes, or bre¬thren, or fillers, or father, or mother, ot*wife, or children, or lands, for my name’sfake, fhali receive an hundred fold, andlhall inherit eternal life,’ Mat. xix. 29.—Here is a promife worth a thoufandworlds ; worthy the ilraking off and fa-crificing all our darling affections that(land between ns and Chrift, to hinderus from running into his blelfed arms,and, wholly calling ourfelvcs upon theriches of his mercy, in which alonethere is comfort and reft for wearyfouls. ‘ The king (fays holy David) fhalljoy in thy ftrength, O Lord, and in thyfalvation how greatly lhall he rejoice/Pfalm xxh 1. If we call our anchorhere, w'c have a fare foundation, andhe that is the wife difpofer of all things,will not fuffer us, even in this life, towant wliat he fees convenient for us.‘ The earth is the Lord’s and thefulnefkthereof ; the world and them that dwelltherein. For he hath founded it uponthe leas, and eltabhfhcd it upon thefloods,’ Pfalm xxiv. 1, 2., Many times we find indeed that Godwithholds his hands from the righte¬ous, and gives them no fuch plenty of14 THE PJCKE3 OF CHRIST.earthly things as the wicked commonlypoffefs. This made David aim nn Rum¬ble, but when he had better ctmftdered,he greatly rejoiced. For. as our blclledLord confefled that his kingdom was notof this world, we may well believe thatthofe whom he loves ihould not havetheir portion here, but receive it in thekingdom prepared for them, in ail ful-nefs of joy and bleiledncfs, even theriches of Ghrilt fhall be their part. Tiierithey may truly fiy their lot is fallen ina fair land, the Lord is their heritage,even the Lord of glory* the King offaints and angels, who has fubdueddeath and the grave, who died and rofeagain that lie might become Lord bothof the living and the dead. And inthis cafe the Chriliian may a {Lire him-felf with holy David : 4 1 he Lord is my‘ fliepherd, I ihall not want: Ire maketh* me lie down in green paftures j hedead-4.eth me befide tire Hill waters. He re-4 floreth my foul, ire leadeth me in the4 paths of righteoufaeb, for hi^ name’s4 fake. Yea* though I walk through the4 valley of the ihadow of death, yet I‘ will fear no evil. For thou art with me,4 and thy rod and thy ftaff fliall comfort4 ine. Thou prepared; a table for me inTHE RICHES OF CHRIST. 15he prefence of mine enemies. ThouInointeft my head with oil, my cupuimetb over Surely pooclnefs andlerey fnall follo w me all the da vs- ofly life, and I will dwell in the houfef the Lord for ever.’ PI dim xxiii,vv, feeing- all in heaven and earth isien to.our -blefled Lord, how can weibt but the riches of his mercy willend to thofe that love him, and keepword in truth and. righteoufnefs,) let us .ftrivo to ‘ run the race that fsbefore us,’ that we may have the,ard Chrift offers in the riches of hiswhich nothing can come nearuuuc. If we can DofTefs otirfelves■p. ' / ^ %hat, we have ail that ought to be•cable, all that can make us eternal-Pppy.—Thefe are the only aims and'.es of the Idiots of God ; they defircprcliafe nothing but ChriU, and infind all that is rich, glorious, andall that is kwely and amiable:the only pearl of price, the richire in the field, for which we ihould'- part with all to purchafe ; and the ■jin without Ian vyill enrich us lorand fatisfy the' valtelt deb re thatIon gilts can conceive,par [ had wings like a dove, (faysi16 THE RICHES OF CHRIST.holy David in the rapture of his thought‘ that I might fly away and be at reAnd certainly there remained! (as djholy writings mention) a reft for tpeople of God, which, through the ricand mercy of our Lor d Jefus Chritl ailhits merits, may be obtained, if we cfider, * even in this our day, the thin* that belong to our peace Which graO Lord, for thy infinite mercy’s fa!that we may praife and magnifyholy name world without end.A PRAYER.• xO BLESSED JESUS, confider nmiferable wretch, whom, inriches of thy mercy, by fheddingmoft precious blood, thou haft redefod from death to life : My foul ijviflaed with the thoughts of thy ticendent comp;tllions. O draw me,I fhall follow with joy and delight. turn not away thy amiable eyes,faint, for my foul is fick of love,me in thy truth,* and let me fothat when I die, my foul may reft,thee. Amen-.F I N I S.