THEHISTORYOF THESEVEN WISE MASTERSO FROM E-I ■ .containingiany excellent and delightful Examples, wu!iI their Explanations, and modern Signifi¬cations, which (by way of allufion)may be termed, An hiftoricalcomparifon of Sacred andCivil Tranfaclions;the betterto makeanimpreflionoathe minds ofMEN.G I, A S G O W,'RINTED BY J. & M. ROBERTSON,Saltmarket, 1801.( 2 )*%**%<• ^THE' historyIOF T H ESEVEN WISE Mx^STERS.CHAP. I.THERE reigned in the city of Rome, ,famous Emperor, whofe wife excellein virtue all the reft of her fex; he had tthis wife one fon, named Dioclefian. TiEmperor affembled his nobles to advife hohe might train up his fon. Their opinion wathat he ftiould fend for the Seven Wife Msters. The young Prince thus difpofed ghis mother, the queen, foon after died j ar, the Emperor, having lived Angle for fonitime, the Roman Lords befought him jtake a fecond wife. At this all the courts 1 hEurope were fearched for an accomplilhelady; At length they pitched on the King 1 j,:Caftile’s daughter, of whom the Emper*much approved; the marriage being coteluded, fne came to Rome, and there, wf1great pomp, the nuptials were celebrated. Tl|IIThe Hijlory of the Seven, &c. 3ij-oung Emprefs having no child, uudied howmight deftroy the young Prince; and the:tter to do it, prevailed with her lord tond for him to court. But the hafty andrespected meflage caufed the mailers to fuf-fome evil; they confulted the Planets,id found, that if the Prince went at thatme, and fpoke at all, he would die a vio-nt death; and yet, if he went not, theyould lofe their heads, which they wouldither do than hazard his life. Whilft theyere in this anxiety, the Prince came dowm.id demanded the caufe of iheir troubles?the which they related, with their refolution.il—With that he viewed the firmament, andcfound the conllellations more propitious, for.tit now appeared, that if he abftairted fromifpeaking feven days, he would efcape thetdeath threatened, dehring his mafters to in¬tercede in his favour, and make an apology|to the Emperor for his not fpeaking for fuchla time, and withal told them a dream thatij&ie had dreamed, &c. That his bed-chamberilfeemed to be turned up-fide down. From1 which they prefaged good fuccefs, promifingto do their utmolt for his prefervation, andthereupon fet him upon a (lately horfe, cloth-Ied in purple and gold, and attended him tohis father’s court. The Emperor came forthand embraced him, enquiring for his wel¬fare; to which the prince gave no anfwer;whereat the Emperor marvelled, yet, fup-pofmg it was fo ordered by the mailers, he4 Tie I-Ih?or; of the Sevenconducted him to the palace and feated hiinext the throne ; interrogating many tilingbut he anfwered none. While the Ernptror’s thoughts were taken up in wonderinat his fon’s filence, the Emprefs came in, tdomed with coitly robes, and underftahdin■which was her fon-in-law, received him witbecoming kindnefs, and taking him afidtby the Emperor’s confent the undertook tmake him fpeak.Though with intent his virtue-to betray,That to his life the might make eafy way.CHAP. IT.The Emprefs’ wicked fcheme.^"^HE Emprefs, fired with the beauty oJk the young Prince, fought many mean jto entice him to a rich alcove, telling hitr'that fhe would die and leave her royalty, ihe denied her love. This he refufed, tho'in filence; whereupon fire brought him penink, and paper, defiring him to write a reply, which he did to this effed: “ Madamthe laws of my Creator forbid fo great tjwickednefs, as to defile my father’s bed: fa¬tal, Madam, would be the confequence. bothfrom avenging heaven, and my father'swrath, therefore on my knees, 1 imploreyou would proceed no farther j” hereupon heWife l\IafLcrs of Rome. 5.1 upon his knees. The Emprefs feeingsis, turned her love to hatred, tearing hertee and robes kr a molt wretched manner,Tying out for help. At this alarm, the Eir>~eror came and demanded the caule, whenre declared, that the Prince would have beenude with her, and forced her to fewdnefs,he Emperor then commanded he u-.ould beut to death directly: upon which the noblesdl on their knees before their Lord, andegged a refpite for his execution; to whichihe Emperor agreed j which pleated all bdtEmprefs.ifl> X X X X ^ 4* ^ Y ^ ^ V ^ ^ ^ V "5 4"^ 'S"I ¥ ¥ t 1 lir ■# ¥ i V t V ¥ IT ¥ ¥if¥¥¥i¥» & YVYKYC H A P. IILPantillus, the firft Maker’s Interceffion*rHE Emprefs, grieving at the delay ofthe Ton’s execution, told the Emperorle following example, faying, If this fonved, it wpuld fare with him as with a Ro¬an Nobleman, who had in his orchard adr tree bearing fruit, but one day he fawwinging from the root thereof, a youngion, at which he rejoiced, faying. Thatrat would be a fair tree: but finding iticreafed not in growth, afked the gardenerre reafon, who anfwpred. That tire largeranches of the old tree kept thii fun andtiling (bowers from it; whereupon he cauf-6 'The Hijicry of the SeKiened many fo be cut off, yet finding die bodycr th; old tree impaired the nourifhment ofthe young fcion, he caufed it to be hewndown : which done, the young fcion wither¬ed. Even fo, faid fne, is your cale; youare the tree, and your fon the fcion, that isinciting your fubjefts to rife againft yourlife, that he may reign, That fliall not be,faid the Emperor, for to-morrow he fliallfurely die.The day appointed being come, the Prince“was delivered unto the executioner: which ,Pantillus the full mailer hearing, he hailed *to the palace, and told the Emperor the fol¬lowing example.There once lived a knight in this citywho had a fon, whom leaving to the care offeme nurfes, he often went abroad, delight¬ing in hawking and hunting; among hisdogs he had a grey-hound. One day goingto a tournament he left his hound and fal¬con at home, at which time, the cradle, inwhich the fon was, was Handing in the hall, ;and the nurfes leaving it. The grey-houndfleeping’ by it, the falcon efpied a ferpentcoming out of a hole in the wall, going to¬wards the child, upon which, fhaking and ;fluttering; his bells, he awaked the grey¬hound, who killed the ferpent, and favedthe child, yet, in the bullle, the cradle waseverturned, and the child was whelmed un¬der it, th4» grey-hound, lying down by it, ,and licking its wounds; which the fervantsWifi Majlers of Rome* 7using, ran aid told the lady the news, who*th them concluded the hourjd had devour-| [ his fon ; vrhereupon the father ftruck offe hound’s fceadj but, afterwards, founds miftake- So, faid the juafter, it willuppen unto you,—Then faid the Emperor,i (hall not die.CHAP. IV.Xentull-ns the fecond Mailer’s Intercefiion.rpHE Emprefs hearing that the M after* load prevailed with the Emperor;j ame and befought him, that his fon ipighte put to death, left it happen to him as toI wild boar, thus: There was a mighty Em-eror, whole empire vras wafted by a boar,diich obliged the Emperor to proclaim,i'hat whofoever killed him, {hould have hisaughter in marriage, and after his dece^fe,tie empire. Many attempted, but in vain,ntil a fhepherd, with only a ftaff, refoivedo venture on him, but, beholding hisufics, &c. was afraid to touch him, there-:ore, betook to a tree, on which grew de!i-Iious fruit, but the boar {baking it fo, he wasearful of its falling, therefore, threw dowmh e fruit thereof which fo fatisfied him, thate lay down to fleep, in the interim, theit:pherd defcended, and {truck the beaft'to8 The Hi/lory of the Seventhe heart; and fo won what the Emperoi;had promifed. Confider. then, my lord. vthe cafe is yours: you are the mighty boar,againft which open force cannot prevail, bu!iecret fraud may deprive you of you r life andempire whilft you hearken to the mailers.Then faid the Emperor, he ihall die.The fecond mailer, named Lentullus, on •hearing that the Empreis had again prevail¬ed, name before the Emperor, entreating- •him, to fpare his fon’s life, left it happen :ihirn as it did to a Roman knight, that efpouf-ied a beautiful wife, and tearing Ihe would itftray, locked the doors every night, layingthe key under his head, but the Hole it from athence, and went and fported with her gal¬lants; hut, one night, miffing her, he boltedthe door: the returned and knocked, but heupbraided her for her inconftancy, faying,-Ihe fhould ftay till the watch feized herwhereupon, Ihe took two large Hones andthrew them into a well that was in the court¬yard, then hid herfelf under the door. Atwhich the Knight, thinking Hie had jumpedinto the well, came down to relieve her;when, upon his opening the door, the Hip¬ped in and bolted him out, calling for thewatch to feize him; who adjudged him toHand in the pillory. This ftory fo muchmoved the E mperor, That, fays he, this daymy fon lb all not die.CHAP.9Wife Matters of Rome,♦ v <* ♦ > ♦ + + , + ♦ ^ »CHAP.. V.j Cratoa the third Mailer's Interceilicra.|'HE Emprefs being exceeding outrage-.I I ous, and the Err\peror finding nothingwould divert her fury, promifed her hisdeath once more. There lived, faid fire, atfvnight at Rome, who fpenr. great inches,,|nd was reduced t6 poverty, lb that he wasiilbout to fell his inheritance; but his fonond two daughters urged the contrary;bhereupon he refoived with his fon to breakinto the Emperor’s treafury; he did fo, andtook thence as much gold as both could car¬ry. iTiey attempted it again a fecond time,ihe father went firft, and was caught inU jtrap ; whereupon he told the fon to ftrike|bft his head, left being difeovered hisfamily fliould die. The fon, accordinglyimplied, and bore away the head ; but theJiext morning the body being found, was,oy the Emperor’s order, dragged about thepity, with command, that wherever theyleard any weeping, as the body paffed by,o enter that houfe, and convey thofe there¬in,, to the gallows, for of that houfe was hedi d; when the body came near the Knight’smule, the daughter fhrieked, when, to pre-: '< iht the difcovery, the foil wounded, him-to The Hijhry of the Sevenfelf, and iafmuated that that was the caufejthe officers were fatisfied, ani carried,th«body to the place of execution, and hang¬ed it up, yet the fon would neither take iidown, nor bury the dead, though the fa*ther died to fave his life. Even fo* f&dHie, is your cafe by your fon, who feeksyour life and my honour. That fhall notbe, for to-morrow he fhall die, faid theEmperor.When fhe had told her flory, Cratoa, thethird tnafter came in, faying, Dread Sove-.reign, if your foa die, it fhall happen toyou as with a knight, who killed a Py^,that he exceedingly loved, thus; A Knightmarried a wife, who took to unlawfulpleafures, which being perceived by thePye, whom the Knight had taught mod:languages, he told his mailer what had hap¬pened in his abfence, for which the ladyhated him, and to prevent it for the future,-file untiled the houfe, and cafl down fand,Hones and water upon him, which the Pyetook for hail, rain, and fnow; fo when his ,lord came home, he told he was almofl kil-1led by reafon of the heavy tempefl that felll.upon him. The wife hearing him fay fo, *hnfwered. My Lord, you may now fee t he ,error in crediting this bird, for there basnot been a fairer day in the memory ofman. The Knight upon this enquired ofhis neighbours, who confirmed what fihaiaid. He therefore broke the neck of tl leWife Mafers of Roms. x t[|Pye: but, after the deed, he faw the houfeiintiled, with the gravel, &c. ftanding on|the top of the houfe, which perfuaded himj :he Pye had been deceived. Deceived in¬deed, faid the Emperor; and, for the exam¬ple’s fake, my fon fhall not die this day.The Emprefs hearing this, anfwered. My(Lord, in this city reigned an Emperor nam¬ed Tiberius, who had feven counfellors,who being fkiiful in magic, fo ordered bytheir charms, that the Emperor’s eyes hada continual mifl before them ; but the E^m-iprefs fitting at the table with her Lord,.comforted him pi the beft way, defiring tocommand his chief counfeliors, on pain ofsiideath, to reftore him to fight; the EmperorIthen fent for the magic counfellors, andicharged them to tell the reafon of his blind-iinefs, and find a cure. After long puz-izling, t.hey found a youth who interpreteda dream of a fpring, which rifing fmail,foon overflowed the ground, and the mani accordingly digging, found great treafure,tas the youth h:ui interpreted: they defiredtil him to go with them, and he would be re-Ifi warded. Coming before the Emperor, hea defired to be let into the royal bed-chamber,where calling off the bed-clothes, there{appeared a feeming well, fed with fevenfprings, which the youth faid muft be flop¬ped ere he could have his fight in anotheri nlace. Then he demanded of him, How muftflopped? To which the youth an-12The Uiftory of the Sevenfvvered; the feven fprings fignified his fevecounfeliors who had ufurped his royal athority, calling a mirl of delufion before 1that hemight not behold their exto:eyes,tions; therefore, ftrike off their heads faithe, and the fprings fliall ceafe. To this hconfented, the fprings vapi(bed, and his fighwas reflored.—Juft fo, faid ihe, is it with yoiand your feven mailers,confented his fon ihould die.On this he agair*>r ' .xriC H A P. VI.Ivlalquidrake the four th Mailer's Interceffion;LKNOW, great Sir, faid Malquidrake tchim. That there formerly lived in thiscity, an old Knight, who married a youmLady, who complained to her mother thalhflse was unhappy in the marriage of this oldman, deflgning to open her cafe to fomsi;From this her mother periuadedpridl.her.urging'her to try histemper.Themeans Ihe ufed were to cut down the fineilplant in the garden, and put a fxre under it:another time, fhe dafned out the brains o"1his favourite hound; and, laftiy, v/hen heand his friends were fitting at dinner, fhthrew all the difites from oif the table: Yet,with her excuies he feemed fatisiied, and thamorning Ihe intended to go to the pried,he brought a furgeon into the chamber j?tWife Majlcrs of'Rome. 13ommanded her to rife and be bled, where-t die began to entreat; bat, faid he, YourIliad blood mufl be let out, and, if you re-jtufe that, I will have your heart’s blood.—KJpon this fhe permitted him to bleed her inboth arms, till fhe fainted away: 'But, re¬vising, flie fent for her mother, and told.her his ufage. The mother being glad toiiear this corredlien. faid. That old men’s:|rdivenge was fare, though flow; afking herjhow flie liked the prieft ? The devil take the.'•orird, faid fhe, I’ll drive to pleafe none butlimy hufband. The Emperor nearing this,lent to fpare his fon.—The Emprefs, under-jpanding it, came and faid. My Lord, overE|this city ruled Octavius, who, being trou-tbled with the rebellion of his fubjefts, or-Idained his magicians to devife a way how he(might know, at any time the date of the[provinces: Upon which Virgilius, the modfcrafty of them, raifed a tower, and placed1 in it as many images as provinces, and, inthe hand of each, a bell, which, by the fe-•cret inftinft of magic, rung out if any re-3 volt happened in the province it was affign-sd guardian of, io that the citizens indant-ly arriving, fuppreffed the foes ere theyocould make head; which being known tothe tributary nations, denrous. to cad offI the Roman yoke, they devifed how to de¬troy the tower, which, after a long de¬late, was undertaken by four knights, whojrin^ing great treaufure, hid it in four pla-14- The Hiftory sf the Stvcfr-ces near the walls. of the city, and enter-#ing in, pretended to be footh-fayers, anclwould difcover hidden treafure; which beingwknown to the Emperor, he fent for thenijwho pretended to dream, difcovered thetreafure they had hid: at lad they pretendedto dream that under the tower lay a greattreafure, and, if the Emperor would permit,they would take it out; to which he confent~ed : whereupon they undermined the tower,and, at break of day, left the city, and were:out of fight before it fell. At which'the cUtizens being grieved, came to the Emperorand acquainted him with it; and, under-franding, that through his covetoufnefs themifchief befel them, they carried him to themarket-place, and poured melted gold down!his throat, and buried him. The enemyfoon after came upon the town, takingj it;and deftroying the inhabitants, took all theirriches. The Emprefs then demanded, ifbe knew the meaning ? who replied in thenegative- Weil, then, faid fhe, the towerwith the images fignify your body, with itsintelledhial faculties; as long as they remaintftrong, and on a good foundation, you are:fafe; but, if yOu give yourfelf up to the flat¬tery of the mailers, you mull expert to fall.Rather than fo, faid he, they fhall perilh withmy fon.I1Wife Moften of Rome* 15ftiftfffffffffffG H A P. VILJofephus the fifth Mafter’s Interceflion.DREAD Sir ! may I beg your attentionto the following example? Hippocrates,; famous phylician, took to affitl him his cou-{n Galenius, v/ho foon became more ex¬ert than he, whereat, he endeavoured toide from him his art, though in vain, foriris prompt wit fupplied other defers: Soat fending him to vifit. great perfons ineir ficknefs, he ever cured them; whichreated fuch jealoufies in Hippocrates, that heilled and buried him. But he falling fick,rdered his fcholars to fill a calk of water,hich they did, and, though an hundredoles were bored in it, yet none would if-e hence; whereupon, he faid he was aead man, for, as no water came out of theafk, fo no virtues came out of the herbso cure his difeafe; but, if his couun had^)een alive, he could have cured him ; thusomplaining, he died. For this exampleaid the Emperor, my fon fhall not die.The Emprefs hearing of this reprieve,j:ame and faid: Great Sir, when the Kingsf the Goths invaded Rome, he had a ftew-trd named Goadus, when one evening,>eing merry with wine, he ordered him tos 5 *11:e IViJlory of the Sevenbring him a beautiful woman, and hwould have a great reward; whereupoithe Steward compelled his wife to lywith the King, bargaining for a thoufampieces of filver, and the.Lady to depart etmorning. To this the King confenting, lhwas brought, and the Kin7 enjoyed herwhen, before day, the hufoan'd came amentreated his Lord to difmifs her; but thKing refufed faying, llte pleafed him fowell, that the fhould Keep with him longer, whereat he being much difturbed, tolqhim Ihe was his wife, and that, for lucre:he had forced her to his^ arms: At whicfthe King moved to anger, bade him deparon pain of death, which he did; and •'heKing maintained his wufe as his own. F01this example, faid the Lmpercr, my fon fliaiidie to-morrow.• v vC H A P. VI11.Cleonhas the fixth Mafter’s Interceffion..CLEOPHAS came and faid, there lived!in this city a Knight, who married1very beautiful Lady, whofe voice was facharming, that fhe ravifhed the hearersOne day, as ■ Ihe fat tinging with the cafe^merit open, three favourite Knights of theEmperor paffed by, who were all muchWife Mafters of Rome. 17(ken with her vciee and perfon ; they eachok convenient times (without acquaintingle another) to treat about enioyment; tothick the feemingiy contented, in confider-ion, as fne wTas but poor, they brought ahundred florins a-piece, and ihe appointediem to cctne fingly at diii'erent times, ;ndue would receive them: which done, ihe ac-aainted her hufhand. advifmghim to (landiith his fword drawn, and, as they entered,.|» kill them j which he performed, and tak-iig away their money, threw their bodies in-15 the fea. Soon after, the Knight and hislady quarrelled, and he linking her fire[ied out in the hearing of many, O youon Her ! w il l you kill me, as you did theree Knights. They being miffed, createdfufpicion: upon which they w ere both fe?z-T, confelfed the faft, and "were afterwardskecuted.—Then laid the Emperor, my fonall not die.! Upon this the Emprefs came and fain,'y Lord, Jn Armenia reigned a King, whojid. a beautiful wife, on whom he doated;iid that none other might enjoy her, hehnfined her in a cafrle, and kept the kevsj mfeif., The queen, after four days confinement{■earned fhe fav a Knight who was ena-oured with her, and fhe no lefs with him.ovv, there was a Knight who had heard of1 r beauty, and left his country to fee her,jit finding fhe was confined, rode abouti $ The Hi/lory of the Seventhe caftle, hoping fhe might look out at thewindow, and he find means to difcover hispafilon: Not long did his expeftation fail,for the Lady beholding him, concluded hewas the man file beheld in her dream; andas he daily frequented the place, Ihe tookan opportunity to drop a letter, which hetook up and departed, confulting withhknfelf how he might anfwer her expecta¬tions, which he determined thus ; that hewould infinuate himfelf into the King’s fa¬vour, which he did by his great wifdom inftate affairs, infomuch that the King madehim fteward of his houfehold ; and, accord¬ingly, ordered an houfe to be built adjoin*ing to the caftle for him; through thebuilding of which the Knight contrived tccut the wall, and to make a private wa)into the caftle; and then, for fecrecy, -ftewthe workmen. On his entering, he watjoyfully received by the queen, who per¬mitted him to take his fill of love, givinghim the ring the King gave her on the wed¬ding day; which the King noticed as heflept in his prefence; he perceived the dif-covery, feigned Tick, and obtained licenceto retire, conveying the ring to her againere the king came to enquire for it: Nay.he often brought her to the King’s tablepretending fhe was a lady of his acquaintancewhom he intended fhortly to wed. TheKing earneftly looking, laid, Well, if 1had not the keys of the caftle, 1 fliould alWife Majlers of Rome. 19ft fwear it was my. CKieen; before heluid go to prove it, fhe was - turned, andher ufual drefs. In the enu, the Knightfired the King to give him this Lady in[image, which he did, giving them great‘hes, with a Ihip to convey them tot-eece, where the Knight had large poflef-)>ns; and, folemnly taking leave, they fetI; at which time the King fet his eyes af-them till out of fight, and afterwards,it to divert himfelf with the Queen; butling into the caftie, behohi (he was fled!fufpedting the fghetr.e, fell into greatentations. Even fo, faid fhe, will ital you, if you thus give way to yourfers. To prevent the like, faid the Em-□r, they with my Son to-morrow ftiall»e.; ftff tf ft ttttf ttif t.-CHAP. IX,Diodes the feventh Mafter’s Interceftion.¥^HE feventh Mafter, named Diodes,came and faid. Know, Sir, that in E-■efus lived a Knight who married a Lady,pon whom he doated, that he could netidure her out of his fight; but playing atrefs, and he holding a pen-knife in hisand, fhe hit her finger againft it, whichtie Knight feeing, fell into a fwoon, and20The Hi/lory of the Sevengave up the ghoft: Whereupon, fhe ft?:mourning by*his tomb. So her irieii^bui:t her a houfe nigh to it to mourn in,-Now, when a malefactor was to be hange’twas the law of the country, that the bher.v/as to watch him on the gallows the enfuing night. The Sheriff, difcovering^a ligliiin the houfe of the above widow, canvtliither to warm himfelf, and, -on return:found the thief ftolen: Whereat, he con-tluded to go back to the widow, and thenbewail his misfortune, and defire her toput him in a way what to do. Upon thisihe, pauftng, toi'd him, that, at the price of;his love, fhe would put him in a way whatto do, which was this : A few days ago, faysfhe, my Lord was buried, take and hanghim up inftead of the thief. But, faid theSheriff, the thief had loft his ears, teeth,aifd ftopes, as, -likewife, in being taken,received a wound on his head. It is ia,your power to ferve my Lord fo, faid fhe :'Nay, faid he, not 1. Ihen faid fhe, for theJove of you I will perform it: And, takinga fword, fhe accordingly did it:. So theydragged him to the gallows, and hanged,him up. After which, fhe very urgently1demanded of the Sheriff to fulfil his promifeijBut he replied, O thou wiekedeft of wo¬men, how couldeft thou be fo cruel to the,dead body of thy hufband? Therefore, I will'keep my word, and not marry while thouUveft. And with that drew his fword andWife Mhjiers of Roms. 21;v. her.—Then, laid the mailer. You haveiderilcrod what I related?'.to which ha re-ied. Full well, aud am of opinion ihe wase word of women, therefore, for the wordsa woman, my fon fhall not die.CHAP. X.The Prince’s Complaint of the Emprefs.H E feventh day the Mailers broughtthe Prince to the Emperor, who faid,;ijiail. Royal Father, Heaven can witnefs theIfity of the accufation laid againil me jr, inilead of my having tempted the chaf-Ity of the Emprefs, it was ihe that temptedie to lewdnefs with her, which I refuled;ad becaufe 1 would not fpeak, the planets;aving threatened my life, if in feven days Ike one word, ihe fell into a rage and ac-:ed me: Nor is (lie nice in her honour,<r, under the cover of a female garment,ie keeps a youth to fupply your place ; andnd for her attendants, and I will makeappear. At this the Emperor ordered■ em all to be called in, and the perfon the::nte pitched on, proved to be a man,ho confeffed he had lain with the Emprefs> ral times; this fo enraged the Emper-'> that he cail them into prifon, and themcc told the following ftory. In Pale-22 The Htftory cf the Sevenftine lived a Knight, who had one iwhom he held in high efteem, and for 1noble aceomp'iihments, caufed him totaught all the arts and fcienees; in wh;being perfected, he fent for him home, aas he fat at dinner, a nightingale ft .fweetly, at which the Knight faid, Ah, Lfweet a fong is this, could any one butterpret it! to which the youth anfweifthat he would undertake it, if he would rbe difpleafed; but his father commandhim to interpret it. Then, faid the youtthe bird, in her fong, exprelled thatwould be a great Lord, and that my fathwould hold the water, and my mothertowel to walh my hands. Whereupon the-':ther growing angry, took him up, and runing to the fea, call him in, where he fwa’to an uninhabited ifland, flayed three <four days, till a fhip palling, took him uand fold him to a Duke in Egypt, who fin.ing him wife, made him ruler of his hold!It happened the King of that country wtroubled with the cry of three ravens atdemanded of the wife men the caufe, b*they could not refolve him, therefore, jtproclaimed, that if any could tell the mea|ing, or caufe the noife to ceafe, he lho,;4>have his daughter to wife, and the kingdi#after his deceafe. Upon this Alexan<1l>(the youth’s name) went to the King, 1 j \ing, that the ravens were the two old c f:and their young one, the male declarir j;Wife Majlers of Rome. 2311s his right, feeing he had fed him in the!ne of famine, when the fexhale who fewto a far country to fhift for herfelf, had leftm to perifh; when on the other fide themale alledged, {he had taken pains in lay-g the egg and brooding it, wherefore, the>ung one appertained to her. And now.King, faid Alexander, they come to you! decide the controverfy; give judgement,id then the ravens fhall trouble you noore.—Then, replied the King, it feemsbod to me, that the young one abide with!>e male; and, on his faying this, the ra-ens took wing and returned no more. ifhe Monarch thus delivered, confirmed hisuromife, and advanced Alexander to placesf dignity. Alexander travelled to Rome,Mnd there became carver to Titus, whofelaughter became in love with him, but hisleart being in Egypt, Lodowick was fentji his {lead, and Alexander failed into E-ypt; but Guido difcovering the intriguef Lodowick and the Emperor’s daughter,1 snt him a challenge who engaged Alexan-e,i 'er, but he, being to celebrate the nuptials,■?. ent Lodowick to celebrate them in his place,m condition, that he .would not rifle the•rincefs of her virginity,i Alexander arrives at court, the Emperor| uppofing him to be Lodowick, rejoiced, and1 he lift being ready, the combatants entered,«.nd, after a fierce fight, Alexander cut offtis foe’s head and fent it to the Princefs.24 H[/hry of the, &c.The Emperor, highly extolled him ; but 1faying his father was Tick, took his leave, awent back to Egypt. Some time aftcAlexander was made King of that countrand, vifited his father and mother, one dabefore dinner, according to the interprettion he had given of the bird’s languag,his father brought the bsfon, and his moththe towel, but he refuted to let them hold ether, commanding his fervants to do it.—^Dinner being ended, he afked them, homany children they had, they faid non*Had you ever any ? faid the King, Alasfaid the father, we had one fon, but he wtdrowned long agoj well, look you to it, falthe King, for, if I find it otherwife, you mu:expefl no mercy. Then they fell upon theiknees, and confelfed the whole matter; whetheking, mildly raifing them from thegrouncdifcovered himfelf to them.Upon hearing this ftory, the Emperor refigned the government to his fon Dioclefianwho demanded jultice on the Emprefs anther Paramour ; the former being burnliand the latter hanged and quarter’d. An*the Emperor dying loon after, left his fon iifull poffeffion of the empirer~ . .FINIS.G L A S G O W,PRINTED by J. & M. ROBERTSON,Saltmarket, tSoi.