THETRAVELSANDADVENTURES OFWm. lilTHGOW,INEUROPE, ASIA, and AFRICA,DURINGNINETEEN YEARS.h/<r^\0HAL LIBR^xGLASGOW / ^ OFSCOTUBD rPKINTKD FOR THH f’.OO^ t©/NBUB9^■»TUET R A V-E L S A N D A D V E N T U It E SOFWILLIAM LITHGOW.THE sufferings and perigrinations of tins Scots¬man, who far out walked the late famous Cor-yate, “seem,” says Mr. Granger, “to raise himalmost to the rank of a martyr, and a hero.” Hisbook being very scarce, and little known, a shortabridgment may be acceptable ; in which we shall,in general, omit his description and insert onlyhis adventures, After making two voyages to theOrkney and Shetland islands, and walking overall Germany, Rohemia, Switzerland, and theLow Countries, our author visited Paris, wherehe resided ten months.From thence, on March 7th 1609, he set outon foot for Italy and in forty days passing throughSavoy, and over the. Alps arrived at Rome.There probably being too free and unguardedin speech, and not observing the advice given toMilton by Sir Henry Wotton, I pensieristrelli, ed it viso scioitc ; after a stay oftwenty-eight days he could not have escaped the“ blood sucking inquisitors,” most of whom were4his own countrymen, had it not been for the as-sistance of Robert Meggat, a Scotsman also,then residing in Burgo di Roma with the oldEarl of Tyrone, who concealed him three daysat the top of his lord’s palace, and on the fourthat midnight when all the streets and gates werewatched for him, conveyed him away, and leap¬ed the wall with him. He then visited Naples,Virgil’s tomb, &c. Having walked four timesfrom one end of Italy to the other, viz, fromVallese, the first town in Piedmont, to CaoeBlanche in Calabria, he affirmed it to be 900 It¬alian miles in length, and in breadth 240, fromthe Adriatic coast to the Riviera of Genoa, bythe sea side, Campagna di Roma and the duchyof Spoleto, he returned to Loretto. Here he matwith a countryman named Mr. Js. Arthur, whosecompany was most acceptable to him. Oise day,as they were viewing the image of the Virgin, alusty young woman, busy at her beads, over¬powered by the heat of the throng fainted away ;at which the woman near her exclaimed, that14 our blessed lady had appeared to her.” im¬mediately she was carry’d out, and laid on thesteps tlut led from the chapel to the church door,some hundreds more saluting her with 4S Saint,saint, O ever blessed saint!” This being Friday,the woman having travelled all night, to save!ii;c.the expense of fish, had privately eaten a bit ofher own cold meat, and drank half a buckale ofred wine in a tavern. At last said our author,“ Brother Arthur, I will go and open that moth¬ers bosom.” He did so, and raising up her head,a hood or vingarba, of sour wine, sprung downthe alabaster stairs, mixed with lumps of indi¬gested meat; at which the people being amazedfrom the saint swore she was a devil; and, had notour travellers carried her in haste from the churchto the tavern, they would doubtless have stonedher to death. Embarking in a frigate at Ancona.Arthur and Lithgow in three days arrived at Ven¬ice, where as soon as they landed at St. Mark’sPlace, perceived a great crowd of people, and inthe midst of them a great smoke, inquiring thecause, they were told, that a grey-friar of theFranciscan order was burning alive at St. Mark’sPillar, for debauching fifteen noble nuns, andall within a year. Pressing forward, they cameto the Pillar, just as half his body and his righthand fell into the fire. This friar was forty-sixyears old, and had been confessor of that nunneryof Saner a Lucia five years. Most of these nunswere Senitors’ daughters Fifteen (all pre¬gnant) were sent home to their father’s palaces ;the lady prioress and the rest were banished forever; the nunnery was razed to the ground; the6# revenues were given to the poor, ami the churchiconverted into an hospital. Here our travellersseparated. Arthur returned homeward, andLithgow proceeded to Greece and Asia ; but firstvisiting Padua, Verona, and Ferrara.At Paduahe staid three months learning Italian of one ofhis countrymen, Dr. John Wedderburn, an emi¬nent mathematician, who afterwards settled inMoravia. At his return to Venice, he embarkedin a earmoosaio Zara Nova, in Dalmatia; butmeeting with a violent storm, they were drivenfor shelter into the port of Parenzo, in Istria.Fhence sailing by the isles Briani, the ruins of Po-la, the isles Sangego, Osero, on the 8th day they;arrived at Zira where our traveller got a passageinto a Greek carmoesalo for Lesina, the largestisland in Adriatica. He afterwards sailed successsively to Ilagusa, and the island of Corfu, Nearthe island of St. Maure the vessel was attackedby a Turkish galley of Biserta, from which aftera long and doubtful fight they escaped by favour ,of a storm, and took shelter in Copholonia (for¬merly Ithaca, ) having seven of the crew killed,and eleven wounded ; among the latter our tra¬veller, in his right arm. Over this island hatravelled, and on the second day hired a little>oat tocarry him to Zant, (anciently Zacynthus, jitwentyfive miles distant, where a Greek surgeozi7cured his wound. He there embarked in a frigatefor Peterasso, (or Patras, ) the capital of theMorea, where quitting the sea, he joined a car¬avan of Greeks bound for Athens, passingthrough Laconia, and the hilly and now barrencountry of Arcadia, encamping one night in theuninhabited villages of Argos and Mycena?; andfinding in short no remains of ancient Greece,but the name. In seven days he arrived atAthens from whence he took shipping for theisle of Serigo, where during his stay at Capsalo,the captain of that fortress having killed a priest,whom he- had found one night in a brothel, thegovernor of the island deposed and banished him.In the same boat Lithgovv also embarked, andsailed to Candia, or Crete. Thiough this wholeisland he travelled twice, which no traveller inChristendom had done before. On setting outfor Canea, being informed of the danger of rob¬bers, he put his money in exchange, and hadscarce got twelve miles, when he was beset bythree Greeks and an Italian, who beat him cruelly,robbed him of all his clothes, and striped himnaked, adding many threats; till at length, theItalian perceiving he was a stranger, and couldnot speak the Cretan tongue, asked him in hisown language, where was his money ? He repli¬ed, he had oidy 80 by a an tin os, which scarce8amounted to eightpence English Not creditingthese words, the robbers, searched all his clothesand budget, but found nothing except his linenand recommendatory letters from several princes,particularly the Doge of Venice, whose subject^ 1they were : this moved the Italian to compassion, Iand he earnestly intreated the others to save our 9traveller’s life, at length they restored to him his Mpilgrim’s clothes and letters, but kept his bluegown and byzantinos, and as a passport gave,him a stamped piece of clay, to shew to any oftheir companions, if he met them, the band con¬sisting of twenty. Travelling that day thirty-seven miles, he reached at night the miserablevillage of Pickehorno, where he could find neithermeat, drink, lodging, nor any refreshment. TheCandiots, a barbarous people thronging roundhim, seeming amaxed at his wanting both com¬pany and their language, a compassionate female -having privately made him signs that his death >wras concerted, he stole away from them in thenight, and lay till morning in a cave by the sea¬side hungry and thirsty, and his heart faintingin him.At sun-rising, he quitted his lurking place, and /about noon reached Canea, the second city ofCrete, anciently Cydon. While he was there,six gallies arrived Iron Venice, in one of whichjL9•wag a young French gentleman, a protestant bornin Languedoc, who had been condemned by thesenate to the gallies for life, for being accessaryto the death of a young noble Venetian, in a quar¬rel concerning a courtezan. Having leave fromhis captain to come on shore with a keeper w ear¬ing an iron bolt on his leg, our author commen-Iced an acquaintance with him, and greatly com¬passionating his misfortune, (being at Venicewhen the accident happened,) contrived his es¬cape at the hazard of his own life, by means ofan old Greek woman, his laundress, who lent himan old gown and a black veil for a disguse, Ac¬cordingly, Lithgow invited the keeper to a tav¬ern, where, with deep draughts of l^eatic, he in¬toxicated this Ai’gus, and left him asleep. Thendisburdening his friend of his irons, he clothedhim in a female habit, and sent him out of thetown, conducted by the Greek woman, and whenpast the guard and gate, our traveller followedhim with his clothes, and, interchanging them,directed him over the mountains to a Greek con¬vent, where he might be entertained till the Mal-, tese gallies or men-of-war should touch there, ontheir way to the Levant.In his way back our author was met by twosoldiers of his nation, Smith and Hurgrave, whowere coming to inform him that the officers ofI10the gullies, and several soldiers were searchingthe city and the fields for him. Advising withthem how to reach the Julian monastery, St. Sal¬vador, where they lodged, they conducted himin at the eastern the least frequented gate ofthe city, where three other Englishmen of thegarrison were that day on guard, and with themhappened to be eight French soldiers, theirfriends, who also agreed to escort him. Nearhis lodgings, four officers and five galley soldiersran to seize him, when the English and Frenchdrawing their swords, desperately wounded twoof the officers. Meantime, a reinforcement com¬ing from the gallies, Smith, leaving the rest en¬gaged, ran with Lithgow to the monastery. Atlength the officers, of the garrison relieved theirown soldiers, and drove back the others to thegallies. Soon after, the general of the galliescame to the monastery, and examining our tra¬veller concerning the fugitive, he made such adefence that nothing could be proved againsthim. Nevertheless, he chose to remain in safe¬guard in the cloister till the gallies were gone.Being disappointed of a passage to the Archipe¬lago, Lithgow resolved to visit the city of Can-din ; and in his way passed by the famous havenand through the pleasant valley of Suda, by thecity of Reshimos, the labyrinth of Daedalus, am--ir~iiiiu i iwi —-— ^~limount Ida ; near which, ha disproved the asser¬tion of there being-no venomous creature in Crete,by killing two serpents and a viper. Being dis¬appointed at Candia, he was forced to return to■ nea the same way he went, where, soon atter,: niglish renegado, named Wilson arrived fromid.:is, in his way to Phodes ; and, after same con¬versation with his countrymen, the Englishv : hearing that Lithgow was a Scotsman,he spoke as follows. •“ My elder brother, themaster of a ship, was killed at Brunt island 1:1Scot land, by one Keere; and though he was be¬headed, I have long since sworn to be revengedon the first Scotsman I should see or meet, andtherefore I am determined to stab this man tonight as he goes home to his lodgingdesiringtheir assistance, which two of them promised,but the other three refused, meantime Smithfound him at supper in a cutler’s house, where,acquainting him with this conspiracy, he was es¬corted to his lodging by Smith and three Italiansoldiers, passing by the ruffian and his confeder¬ates, who, seeing his treachery discovered, madehis escape.Smith having thus most eminently served himtwice, first in freeing him from the danger of gal¬ley slavery, and now in saving his life, Lithgowresolved to return the obligation, by discharging?u« debt to the eapiuin, which was only forty-eightshillings Sterling and thereby procuring him hisliberty, after having served three captains fifteenyears. This our traveller happily accomplish¬ed, and embarked him for Venice.Lithgow staid in Canea near a month, before1 e could procure a passage for the Archipelago,<• nd at last left the monastery he says, with re¬gret, as the four friars his hosts, gave him fre¬quent and large draughts of malmsey, thoughoften against his will. Every night, too, theyforced him to dance with them ; but their musicwas drunkenness, and these beastly swine wereevery night so drenched, that they had not powerto go to their beds, but where they fell, they laytill next morning. In short, during the twentydays ot his being there, he never saw any of them ,,truly sober.In this island, he travelled on foot about 400miles, and, after a stay of fifty-eight days, he em- •barked in a fishing-boat for Milo, one of the ,Cyclades, distant 100 miles.From Milo our traveller proceeded to Zephano,another small island, from whence Lucullus firsttransported marble to Rome; and to Angusa,where he was wind bound sixteen days, and allthat time was never in bed, but lodged on thestones in ft little chapel the Greeks intreating ,him not to enter their sanctuary, because he wasnot of their religion: however, as the nights werelong and cold, he was forced every night to creepinto the midst of it to keep himself warm. Fromthence he went to Mecano, anciently Delos, thechief of the fifty-four Cyclades, where the customstill continues of never suffering men to die, orchildren to be born in it; but when the men aresick and the woman big-bellied they are sent toIlhena, two miles distant, Zea, Tino, and Pal-mosa, once Patmos, where St. John wrote hisRevelation, were the next islands which he visi¬ted ; and thence sailing to Nicaria, his vessel, insight of it was. chaced by two Turkish galliotsinto a bay, where, leaving the loaded boat, heand eight more fled to the rocks, from whencethey annoyed the Turks with huge stones. Themaster and two other old men were taken andmade slaves, and the boat and goods seized. Inhis way from ISHearia to Sio, they were drivenby a storm into a creek between two rocks, wherethe shore being shelfy and the anchors coming-home a great lake was made, and seven of thecrew drowned: the other eleven just before theboat sunk, by hasty rowing reached a cavewithin the mountain; Lithgow disembarked thelast, as the rest had sworn if he pressed to escapebefore they were all in safety they would throw14him intQ the st\n. Nothing was saved but hiscoffer made of reeds in which he carried his papers and linen, and held it always in his arms.In this cave, which was 30 paces long, they abodethree days without meat and drink, till, on thfourth, the tempest ceasing some fishing boats re¬lieved them. Seventeen other boats were taway on this coast and not a man saved. Throughthis island Lithgrow travelled with a thankiulheart to Sio the capital, where, passing by an oldcastle, he was told that Homer’s sepulchre wasstill extant there; and being desirous to seehe descended by sixteen steps into a dark cell,and through that to another square room, wherehe saw an ancient tomb on which were engravensome ancient Greek letters, which he could notunderstand. By Mitylene, or Lesboa he nextsailed in a carmoesalo to Negropoint (of old Eu¬boea,) and in their way they were chased by two ;Turkish galliots into a long creek, where thTurks were deterred from attacking them, by bofires made by the Greeks for six succeedingnights, our traveller, as a stranger, being expostevery night to stand ccntinel in the midst of frosand snow, on the top of a high promontorywhich however invited his mule to bewail his toilsome life, his solitary wandering, and his long dis¬tance from his native country.On the 7th day, two Venetian gentlemen, whohad been ten years banished for murder, camedown to see them with two servants, all wellarmed ; and hearing our traveller’s complaints a-gainst the Greeks for detaining his budget, andforcing him to endanger his life for their good,they soundly drubbed the master, and forced himto restore Lithgow’s things ; carrying him withinfive miles of the town where they then resided,i kindly entertaining him ten days, and, at his de-I parture, made him a present of forty gold se-I quins; the first gift he ever received in all hisI travels.From thence he proceeded to Salonica in Ma¬cedonia, and then sailed along the Thessalianshore, saw the “ Two topped hill” Parnassus,and a little more east, a ruinous village and cas¬tle, once the city of Thebes. In three daysfrom Ralonica he arrived at Tenedos, when meet-ling with two French merchants of Marseillesbound to Constantinople he and they resolvingto view Troy, hired a janizary for their conduc¬tor and guard, and a Greek for their interpre¬ter. Landing there, they saw many relicts ofi old walls, and many ruined tombs some of whichj were pointed out to them as the the tombs ofHector, Ajax, Achilles, Troilus, &c. and alsothose in Hecuba, Cressida, and other 'Trojan16dames, They were shown also the ruins of KingPriam’s palace, and where old Anchises dwelt.On a piece of a high wall, at the N. E. cornerof Troy, our author found three pieces of rustedmoney ; two of which he afterwards gave to theyounger brothers of the Duke of Florence, thenstudying at Pratolina ; the third and fairest, witha large picture on one side, he bestowed, at Aixin province, on his countryman Mr. Strachanthen mathematician to the Duke of Guise, whopresented it to his Lord.On discharging their covenant with the jan¬izary, who was not contented with the formercondition, the Frenchmen objected to pay thesame that Lithgow did, the Turk belaboured,them both with a cudgel till the blood sprang kfrom their heads, and compelled them to double uhis wages. Such is the extortion of those ras- b»cals, who regard Christians no more than dogs;, ^and it is always best for a travaller to content *them at first, or he will be forced with blows, to i,pay twice as much. At Sutos and Abydos, s<* •famed for the loves of Hero and Leander, butnow called the castles of Gallipoli (at presentthe Dardenelles,) they arrived in a small frigate,v/here, two days after, eighty Christians, slaves, :having murdered their captian, and the other r'Turks, and run away with the galley, passed tht17I straits at mid-night, with little hurt, thoughi the cannon thundered incessantly for two hours;I and at last arrived iu the road to Zante. An-jj other galley attempting the same the year fol-(1 lowing; the poor slaves, in passing, were sowounded and galled with the great shot, and thei galley ready to sink that they were forced to runIon shore: where, being apprehended, they weremiserably put to death.Leaving the Frenchman with a Greek bar-jjDer. Lithgow embarked in a Turkish frigate|for Constantinople, “ a little world, which he• describes as yielding at a distance such an out-ard splendour to the amazed beholder, of good¬ly churches, stately towers, gallant steeples &c.hat the world cannot equal it.” At his landingowever, he “ had a hard welcome for on leav-ng the boat tbe master saying Adio Christiano,our French rengenadoes standing on the quaynd hearing these words fell desperately uponim, blaspheming the name of Jesus, and throwingim down, beat him cruely, so that had not hisriendly Turks leaped out of their boat and re-eived him, they would doubtless have murderedm. The other infidels standing by, said toim. “ Behold what a Saviour thou hast, whenhose that were Christians, now turned Mahom-tans, cannot abide nor regard the name of thy18Gotl!'’ Entering into a Greek lodging, he wasmuch eased of his blows, by their anointing himwith divers oils, and kindly received and refresh¬ed gratis, because he had suffered so much forChrist’s sake. Next day he went to pay hisduty to Sir Thomas Glover, the English am¬bassador, who courteously entertained him threemonths in his house“ A moi’e complete gentleman,” he says. “ he[never met with, nor one in whom true wTorth didmore illustrate virtue.” His mother was a Polishlady who coming from Dantzick to London wasdelivered of him at sea. Afterwards lie wasbrought up at Constantinople, and spoke amwrote the Selavonian tongue perfectly; am tthence returning to London he was the first am¬bassador sent there by king James I. after hiscoming to the crown of England. The duke oi iMoldavia, being deprived ofhis principalities by (Achmet was received and chargeably maintain^by Sir Thomas, in his house, for two years, bu| »his embassy being expired and Sir Paul Pinda:being expected in his place this prince stole awaj >from him, turned Turk, and was circumcised re- 'ceiving only, for his dukedom, a palace, and ; !yearely pension of 121,000 gold sequins for life ,He owed the ambassador about 151,000 half u-,^rf.- ■ — . i w—i •i.i—     ■   —194J!11It10I |(which in half an year, he recovered the other halfhe was forced to for^oe.The winter being expired, Lithgow sailed inan English ship to Smyrna, and thence toRhodes, where he saw the remains of the Col-lossus, and to Limisso, in Cyprus, from whencehe went with an interpreter to visit Nio.osia, thecapital; and, on his return, meeting four Turks,they would have his mule to ride upon, whichhis interpreter refused., they pulled him ofl’ itsback, beat him pitifully, and left him almost dead.His companion fled and escaped; and had notsome Greeks accidently come by and relievedhim, he must have perished. He sailed fromthence to Tripoli, in Syria, and while he waitedthere for a caravan to Aleppo, being mindful tovisit Babylon, he agreed with three Venetianmerchants to go a days journey to seethe cedarsof Libanus. Ascending the mountain, theirguide mistaking their way amidst an intricate pathof the rocks, two of their asses fell over a bank,and broke their necks ; and had they not met, bychance, with a Christian Amaronite, they musthave been lost among the rocks,.heaps of snow,and violent torrents. At the place where thecedars grow, they saw but twenty-four in all ;and nine miles eastward, there are seventeenmore. He was there shown the tomb of Joshua,30ail of one stone, seventeen feet long, ana waskindly entertained by the Bishop, or Patriarchat Eden, and the Amaronites, or Nazaritans, ofthe other villages.Returning to Tripoli, he set out with a cara¬van of Turks for Aleppo, but before Ids arrivalthere, the caravan for Babylon, to his great griefwas departed: but, being told that it staid atBeershack on Euphrates, on account of someArabs who waylaid them in the desarts, he hiredajannizary and three soldiers to overtake them.But though they had stayed they were gone threedays before he got there. Beershack is bysome supposed to be Padeharium. To Aleppo,therefore, he was forced to return. While hewas there, the Bashaw, having the year beforerebelled against the grand Signor, he sent hima chiaux and janizaries in an embass, proffering,that if he would acknowledge his rebellion, and:for that treason send Achmet his head, his eldestson should inherit his possessions and Bashawship; otherwise the Sultan would come in persoiand utterly eraze him and all his from the faoof the earth. The messengers met the Bashawon horseback, accompanied by his two sons and500 horsemen. Hearing this he dismounted con¬sulting with his sons and friends, he and they con¬cluded, that it was best for him being an old man21to die to save his race froia destruction arwi pre¬serve his son in his authority and inheritance.This done, he went to prayer; and taking leaveof them all and sitting down on his knees, thechiaux struck ofl his head, and put it Into a boxio carry to Constantinople. The corpse washonourably buried at Aleppo, of which Lithgowas an eye-witness.And immediately the chiaux by proclama¬tion, fully invested the son in his father’s lands,jffiees &c.Being disappointed going with the caravan toabylon in the autumn, as has been already ro¬uted, our traveller returned to Aleppo where b«taid till the spring, when he joined a caravan ofrmenians and Turks, well guarded, bound toerusalem, hiring a mule from a Turk to carryis victuals.Their number was about 600 Armenians,hristian pilgrims, men and women, 600 Turksrafficking for their own business, 100 soldiershree ehiauses, and six janizaries. The confusionif this multitude he describes as most grevious,>n account of the extreme heat and scarcity of| vater, and narrow stony passages in which theyfieri fell one over another in great heaps, and:he Christians were often well beaten by theconducting- Turks. The owner of his muiwas*22for three days very favorable to him, in order thave a share (he found) of his tobacco, of whiehe then freely gave him a pound, which he always carried with him, to procure the good-wiiof the Turks. At his walking, which he oftedid at dismounting, to streach his legs that werstiffned by a stumbling beast they laughed anmocked him, it being their custom, at alightinto sit down immediately, and fold their feet uider them. On the ninth day they arrivedDamascus, and were lodged three days there ia great khan, at the grand signior’s jxpenee ;privilege allowed to all strangers who come wit,a caravanOn Palm Sunday, in the morning, 1612, thjcaravan entering Jerusalem, and at the gate, the]were all searched for arms and ammunition!The Amenians were obliged to deliver up the:wepons, and Lithgow’s name was written in tclerks book, that his tribute for the gates, anifor seeing the sepulchre, might before his deparlure, he, paid together. The gates were of iroinwardly, and above each gate was planted bracannon.Taking his leave of his compainons, wlilodged with their own Patriarch, our author w;the streets by the guardianwmet and received inand twelve friars, elightedeaxulle, and one for him also, ami singing Te]^)eum all the way to their Monastery, they great¬ly rejoiced that a Christian had come from sucha far country as Scotland to visit Jerusalem.But, when they knew afterwards, that he was noPopish Catholic, they sorely repented of theirlabour. He found there ten branks, just comefrom Venice, six of then Germans, and also goodProtestants, who were wonderfully pleased tohear him flatly tell the guardian, that he was noRoman Catholic, nor never thought to be so.After staying some days at Jerusalem, and see¬ing every thing worthy of his notice, he madethe best of his way to Joppa, where, after seeing "the remains of the house in whichs Peter fell intoa trance, and saw heaven opened, he embarkedin a small vessel for Alexandria. He arrivedthere in safety, and soon sailed for his nativeland.ANECDOTE OF HENRY IV. OF FRANCE.IB: \’hy had seduced the daughter of an officerat Rochelle, which had disgraced a worthy fam-' ily, and given great offence to the people of thatcity. Just befeie a battle, when prayers weregoing to be read in front of the line, a protestantminister, his chaplain, took the liberty to remon-21etrate to him, that he could not expect tnat theDivine Being would favour his arms, if he didcot previously ask pardon for this offence, andrepair the scandal which he had given by themost public satisfaction. The King heard thisremonstrance with the greatest humility, fell up¬on his knee, implored forgiveness of God, anddesired all to witness his contrition, and his sol¬emn assurance that, if Providence spared his life,he would repair as much as possible, the injuryhe had done. Ail who were present at this un¬common scene, were melted into tears : and therewas scarce one who would not have devoted hia-life for a prince, who thus evinced such instantreadiness to do justice to his inferiors.b