Witty & Entertaining ExploitsorGEORGE BUCHANANCOMMONLY CALLEDTHE “KING’S POOL"GLASGOW:FEINTED FOE THE BOOKSELLEES.THEWITTY EXPLOITSOFME GEOEGE BUCHANAN. =K>«=—PART I.Mr. George Buchanan was a Scotsman bom, andthough of mean parentage, made great progress inlearning. As for his understanding and ready wit,he excelled all men then alive in the age, that everproposed questions to him. He was servant orteacher to King James the VI., and one of his pri¬vate counsellors; but publicly acted as his fool.1. It happened one day that a young airy noble¬man went into the king’s garden to pull a flowerfor a young lady he fancied; George followed at adistance, so when the young man found a flower hefancied, he would not pull it himself, but to find itagain without further search, he covered it with hishat, and went away for his sweetheart. No soonerwas he gone, but up goes George, lifts his hat, andpulls the flower, then eases himself on the spot,covers it with the hat again, and away he goes.Soon after, the young gentleman returned, leadinghis sweetheart to pull the flower below the hat;but as soon as he lifted the hat, and saw what wasbelow it, he looked like a fool; and the lady flyingin a passion, sets off, and would never countenancehim any more The young gentleman being sadly4ivexed at this affront given to him by George, senhim a challenge to fight him, appointing day amplace where they were to meet. Being to fight oilhorseback, George gets an old stiff horse, and foharnessing, covers him about with blown bladderswith small stones in each, without either sword ospear; and away to the field he goes, where tinduel was appointed. So when George saw hienemy coming against him, all in glittering armourarmed with sword and spear, he made up to hinwith all the speed his horse could carry him; wheithe small stones in the bladders made such a rattlinjnoise, that the gentlemen’s fine gelding would notstand the battle, but ran away, and threw his masteito the ground ; which caused all the spectators t<laugh, and say the gentleman was mrre fool than*George. The gentleman being still more enragedat this second affront, he would fight with Georgeon foot; but his friends persuaded him that it wouldbe no honour for him to fight and kill the king’sfool; and far less to be killed by the fool Sd-they were advised both to agree. But the gentle¬man would try another exploit with George, for]to have it said he was still the cleverest maniviz:—To hold him a jumping-bout publicly, thenext day thereafter. With all my heart, saysGeorge, and we will end in about where we began]they not knowing his meaning in this. The placeand hour being set, where they were to meet nexlmorning. George in the night time caused a deeppit to be made, and the earth of it carried away,:hen filled it up with dung from a p , andcovered it over with a green turf, that it might nolbe known by the other ground So, according tcpromise, they both met in the morning against th<5appointed time. Now, George being the oldestman, and by them counted the greatest fool, theyoung spark permitted him to jump first, which heaccording to order did, and jumped within a footof the place where the ground was falsified. Theyoung man seeing this, made his performance with;great airs, and all his might, so that he jumped afoot over George, but up to the oxters in cleandung! whereat the whc1 'George, I told you we would end in and aboutwhere we began, and that is in clean dirt.2. On a time after this, the king and his courtwere going into the country, and they would haveGeorge to ride before them in the fool’s dress:whereunto he seemed unwilling, but it was the king’spleasure. So George was mounted upon an oldhorse, with a pair of old riven boots, the heelshanging down, and a palmer coat, patched overwith pictures of divers kinds. George rode beforethem in this posture, which caused great laughterand diversion, until they came to an inn, wherethey alighted to dine, and in the time they were atdinner, George went into the stables, and with aknife cut all their horses’ chafts, not sore, but soas they might bleed. N><w, as soon as dinner wasov' r, and they mounted on their horses again,George riding before them as usual, in his palmercoat and old bont.i, they began to make their gameol him. Then George turning about suddenly, andclapping his hands with loud laughter, the kingasked him what ma .e him laugh so. Laugh, saysGeorge, how can 1 but laugh, when horses c mnothold their peace 1 Oh ! my sovereign, says he, don’tv >u see how your horses have rent their chaffscried out with huzzas6laughing at my old bvois. Then e'[ery man lookingat his horse’s mouth they were all in a rag.- ;v.mj. uGeorge. The king causing George to dismountdirectly, and charged him never to let him see tinface on English ground. Now, George knowingthat nothing could reconcile the king at this time,he came away to Scotland, and caused them tomake a pair of g. eat boots, and put a quantity ofScottish earth in each of them, and away he goesfor London, to see the king once more. He hearingthe king and his court were to pa s through a town,George places himself up in an old window, andsets up his bare a—, to the kirg and the court asthey passed. The king being gr< atly amazed to see|such an unusual honour done to him was curious toiknow the performer; so he call 'into him, desiringhim to come down ; and finding it to be George—Sir, says the king, did not I charge you never to letme see your face again 1 True, my sovereign, saysGeorge, for which cause I let you see my a—. Butsays the king, you was never to come on Englishgroung again. Neither I did, says George, pullingolf his boots before the king, behold, my sovereign, ,it is all Scots earth I stand upon The king andhis court being greatly diverted with his merryjoke, George was admitted again to the king’s favour, j3. After this there arose a debate betwixt theking and the queen about votes in the parliament*:as the king had two votes, the queen would haveone, and would needs be a parliamc nter, or no peace/without preferment. This matter was committedto George by the king; so it wps agreed amongithe parliamenters, that the queen si ould be admitted,into parliament for a day. Accor lingly she came,and was received with all the honour and congratu-7lation that was due and becoming her high station;but before any matter of consequence was broughtto the board, George seated himself hard by thequeen’s seat—all being silent, he rose up veryquickly, lifted one of his legs, let a loud f 1,which set the whole house a laughing, whereat thequeen was greatly offended, and said, go, take therogue and hang him, to which George answered, afine parliamenter, indeed, to hang a man for a sin¬less infirmity, and that’s a f 1. The queenbeing enraged at the affront put on her first appearance in parliament, went off in a passion, and neverwould countenance them more. But yet, to berevenged on George, she would never give the kingrest till he delivered George into her hands, that liemight be punished at her pleasure, which the kingaccordingly commanded to be done, knowing thatGeorge would rescue himself by some intrigue orother. No sooner was he delivered into her hands,but she and her maids of honour pronounced hisdoom, which was as follows:—As he had affrontedthe queen among so great an equipage, who ought tobe honoured in cliief above all women in the nation,that he should be stoned to death by the hands ofwomen. Now the time being come that he had todie, according to their appointment, he was takeninto a park, where a great number of women were| waiting for him, with their aprons full of stones, tofall upon him, and put him to death, according to| the queen’s appointment.George’s Speech to his Executioners.Here’s a female band with bags of stones,To kill a man for rumple groans,I’m clean of rapine, blood and thefts,Could I convert my f s to rifts ?8Since I, the first for f s to die,Close up the place from whence they fly,To commit my crime, I think ye’ll scarce.If ouce you do cork up your a—.And now since women stones do carry.Men need not in the world longer tarry,Judge if such women be chaste complete,With forty stones between their f ;But since ’tis so ye will come on,The greatest w throw the first stone."When he had ended with these words, “Th<greatest w  throw the first stone,” every on<put it to another to cast the first stone, but know¬ing they would attain the character of a w   foiso doing, they all refused to the dying hour waspast, and then he took a protest against them, andby that means he gained his life. After this he-was admitted into the queen’s favour and presence,and attended the court as formerly.4. About this time, the French king, in order topick a quarrel with the court of Britain, sent a letter^to the king, desiring it to be read before the parlia¬ment, and the writing was as follows: “ Will I come ?Will I come 1 Will I come 1 ” This letter being readbefore the king and his courtiers, they all concluded 11that the French king designed to invade England )l ttherefore they ordered an answer to be wrote, up-, ibraiding him with the breach of peace, and putting; jihim in mind of the last treaty. The answer being;read before the king and his nobles, they all agreed; 1that it should be sent off. But George, smiling,!and shaking his head, cried out,Many men, many minds,Who knows what he designs ?Then they asked George what the French king meantby such a letter, to which he answered, I supposi9he wants an invitation to come over and dine withyou, and then return in a friendly manner; but youare going to charge him with a breach of peace beforehe has given any signal of offence or war; his letteris indeed dark and mystical, but send him an answeraccording to his question. Now, George beingordered to write the answer, it was as follows :“And ye come—And ye come—And ye come.”This being sent to the French king, he admired itbeyond expression, saying, it was an answer morevaliant and daring than he expected. So the enmityhe intended, was extinguished, and turned into love.5. It happened once that a malignant party inScotland sent up a great spokesman to the king andparliament, for the reducing of the church; Georgehearing of his coming, went away and met him onthe bridge, and the salutation that he gave him wasthe cutting off his head, and throwing it over thebridge. He then ran to the king with all his might,and fell down before him, pleading most heartilyfor a pardon, or without it he was a dead man. Theking most seriously asked him what he had donenow 1 To which he answered, he had only thrownthe Scots’ Bishop’s hat over the bridge, which madethe king to laugh, to hear him ask pardon for sucha small fault; but he had no sooner got the pardonsealed by the king’s hand, than he said, indeed mysovereign, I threw his hat over the bridge, but Inshead was in it. 0 Geordie, Geordie, says the king,thou wilt never give over till thou be hanged.6. A nobleman in England agreed witli the kinghow to put a trick upon George, to try his manlycourage, in sending him to a certain place for a bagof money, On his way home, through St. James’park, they caused a sturdy fellow to go and set upon10lum by the way, and take the money from him.The fellow being armed with sword and pistol, cameup quickly and attacked George with these words,“ You, sir, deliver what money you have, or you area dead man.” To which George answered, “ Sir, Ihave some indeed, but ’tis not my own, and there¬fore do not like to part with it; nevertheless, sincebeing determined as you are, to exchange blows forit, pray do me the favour to fire your pistol throughthe flap of my cloak, that the owners may see I havebeen in great danger of my life before I parted withit, which he accordingly did. No sooner had hefired the pistol, than George whipt out his hangerfrom below his cloak and with one stroke cut off hisright hand wherein he held his sword, so that bothhis sword and the hand fell to the ground; butGeorge lifted his hand and carried it to the king.No sooner di 1 lie come before them, but they askedhim, saying, well, George, did you see anybody totrouble, you by the wayl None, said he, but one fel¬low, who was going to take the money from me, but Imade him give me his hand he would not do thelike again. You did 1 says the fellow’s master.Yes, I did, says George; let work bear witness,throwing down the fellow’s hand on the table beforethem all7. Now, this last exploit of George’s caused manyof the English to hate him; and, among the rest, ayonng nobleman fell a joking of George, saying hewould be as famous a champion for Scotland, as SirWilliam Wallace was. Ay, ay, says George, Wallacewas a brave man in his time. True, indeed, saysthe young nobleman, but when he came to London,we did him all manner of justice, and for honourof the Scots, we have his effigy in the s to this11very day. And do you know the reason of that,says George? No, I don’t, says he. Well, I’ll tellyou says George.—He was such a terror to English¬men when he was alive, that the sight of his pictureyet makes them p themselves. The Englishtook this answer as a great affront, and forthwithcaused Wallace’s picture to be taken out of alltheir s .8. A young English girl falling in love with a.Scotchman, she petitioned him several times for tomarry her; which he refused. So, to be revengedon him, she went to a Justice, and swore a rapeagainst him, -which is death by the law. Georgehearing of this, went to the prison where the youngman was, and instructed him how to behave beforethe judge. So, in the time of the trial, Georgecame in while the judge was crying to the man, but| never a word he could get him to answer, to tellwhether he was guilty or not. After the Justicehad given him over for deaf and dumb, others fella shouting in his ears, but never a wotd he wouldspeak. Then the judge, perceiving George, calledhim, saying, George, do you know what is the matterwith this man 1 Yes, I do very well says George.What is it? says the judge. Why, says George, thewoman made such a noise and crying when he wasravishing her, it has put the poor man quite deaf, Iassure you. Is it so? says the judge. No, no, saysthe woman, my Lord Justice, you may believe me, Ilay as mute as a lamb, and never spoke a word allthe time. Very well confessed, said the judge, andyou have sworn a rape upon him. Take the w to prison, and let the poor man go about his business,and so it ended.12PART II.George happened one time to be in company witha bishop, and so they fell to dispute anent education,•wl he blanked the bishop remarkably, and thebishop himself owned he was worsted. Then one ofthe company addressed himself to him in thesewords: thou Scot, said he, should not have left thycountry. For what 1 says he, because thou hascarried all the wisdom that is in it thither with thee.No, no, says he, the shepherds in Scotland will dis¬pute with any bishop in London, and exceed themvery far in education. The bishops then took thisas an affront, and several noblemen affirmed it to beas the Scot had said : bets were laid on each side,and three of the bishops were chosen, and sent awayto Scotland to dispute it with the shepherds,accompanied with several others, who were to bear (witness of what tfhey should hear pass between them.Now, George knowing which way they went, imme¬diately took another road and was in Scotlandbefore them. He then made an acquaintance witha shepherd on the border whose pasture lay on thewayside where the bishops were to pass; and therehe mounted himself in a shepherd’s dress; and whenhe saw the bishops appear, he conveyed his flock tothe roadside, and fell a chanting at a Latin ballad.When the bishops came up to George, one of themasked him in French, what o’clock it was 1 Towhich he answered in Hebrew, it is directly aboutthe time of the day it was yesterday at this time.Another asked him in Greek, what countryman hewas? To which he answered in Flemish, if he Iknew that, you would be as wise as myself. A thirdasked hirt in Dutch, where was you educated? To13which he answered in Earse, herding my sheepheteen this and Lochaber. This they desired himto explain into English, which he immediately did.Now, said the one to another, we need not proceedany farther. What, says George, are you butchers!I’ll sell you a few sheep. To this they made noanswer, but went away shamefully, and said, theybelieved the Scots had been through all the nationsin the world for their education, or the devil hadtaught them. Now, when George had ended thisdispute with the bishops, he stripped off his shep¬herd’s dress, and up through England he goes, withall the haste imaginable, so that he arrived at theplace from whence they set out, three days beforethe judges, and went every day asking if they werecome, so that he might not be suspected. As soonas they arrived, all that were concerned in the dis¬pute, and many more, came crowding in to hearwhat news from the Scottish shepherds, and to knowwhat was done. No sooner had the three gentlemendeclared what had passed between the bishops andthe shepherds, whom they found on the Scots border,but the old bishop made answer, and think you, saidhe, that a shepherd could answer these questions fIt has been none else but the devil; for the Scotsministers themselves could not do it; they are butignorant of such matters, a parcel of beardless boys.'1 lien George thought it was time to take speech inhand. Well, my lord bishop, says George, you callthem a parcel of ignorant beardless boys. You havea great long beard yourself, my lord bishop, and ifgrace were measured by beards, you bishops andthe goats would have it all, and that will be quiteaverse to Scripture. What, says the bishop, areyou a Scot 1 Yes, says George, I am a Scot. Well,14says the bishop, and what is the difference between aScot and a sot? Nothing at present, says George, butthe breadth of the table, there beimg a table betwixtthe bishop and George. So the bishop went off ina high passion, while the whole multitude were liketo split their jaws with laughter.2. About this time there was an act of parliamentfor the benefit of murderers, that any person, whocommitted murder, if they forfeited five hundredmerks, which went under the name of kinboot,because, so much of this went to the murdered per¬son’s nearest relations, as the price of blood, themurderer got a remit. Now, George knowing this tobe contrary to Moses’ laws, was very much grievedto see so many pardons sealed by the king’s handfor murder, almost one every week; it being sousual for the king to subscribe them, that he wouldnot read them, nor enquire what they were; forwhich cause, George writes a writ to the crown, andsent it to the king to be subscribed, which heactually did, and never looked what it was, returnedit to George. No sooner had he received it, but hegoes to the king and told him it was not time iorhim to be sitting there, whereat the king, greatlyamazed, started up; then George in great has‘e,sets himself down in the king’s chair, forthwithdeclaring himself king, saying, you who was kingmust be my fool, for I am now the wisest man.The king at this was greatly offended, until Georgeshowed him his seal and superscription. But fromthat day forth, the king knew what he subscribed.3. The next pardon that came to be sealed bythe king, was a gentlemen who had killed two menb ifore, and had got pardons for them by money.This being the third, the king was very silent in15looking over the petition: George standing hy askedthe king what he was going to seal now. To whichhe answered, it is a remit fora man who has killedthree men at sundry times, I gave him two remitsbefore. Oh, says George, he has killed but oneman. And who killed the other two, says theking. You did, says George, for if you had givenhim justice when he had killed the first, he wouldhave killed no more. When the king heard thesewords he threw down the pen, and declared thatsuch an act to save a murderer, should be null everafter by him.4. One day, George having no money, he goesaway and gets a pick and a spade, and then fails adigging at a corner of the king’s palace, which theking perceiving from his window, calls what he waswanting there 1 Are you going to undermine myhouse, and make it fall 1 N o, my sovereign, saysGeorge, but it is verily reported that there is plentyof money about this house, and whore can it be ?says George—I cannot find it, for it is not withinthe house to do me service, then surely it must bebelow it. 0 George 1 says the king, that is a cravealter the new fashion, what money you want I’llorder for you. Then, my sovereign, says George,I’ll dig no more.5. One time George being in the country, he cameto an inn, where he alighted to refresh himself andhis horse. The inn-keeper charged him double pricefor everything he called for. George never grumbledat this, but gave him all demands, and away he goeson his journey. At the inn where he quartered thefollowing night he was used after the same manner,if not worse. Having a little farther to go, hereturned the next day, and came that night to the16inn where he refreshed himself the day before. So,when he alighted, the boy asked him what he wouldgive his horse 1 What you will, said he. Whenhe had gone to his room, the waiter enquiredwhat he would have to drink? What you will,says he. The master of the inn came into hisroom before supper, and enquired what he wouldhave lor supper ? What you will landlord, says he.Alter supper, and a hearty bowl to put all over, he\v nt to bed. On the morrow he rose very early,a.id called lor the boy to make ready his horse inall haste, for he was designed to mount and godirectly. Soon after, he went into the stable wherethe boy was, calling for his horse, when he mountedwith all the speed lie could, and gave the boy apiece of money, saying, here my boy, this is fortaking care of my horse; 1 have paid for all I haveordered in the house, and olF he goes. About mid¬day he alighted again at an inn to refresh himselfand his horse, and there he chanced to be in company with his other landlord where he was thenight before, and charged him with the doublereckoning: so he addressed himself to him in thefollowing manner.—Sir, says he, I do believe I wasin your house yesternight, O yes, Sir, says he, Imind of you pretty well. And where was you lastnight f Last night, says George, 1 was in one ofthe finest inns, and tin- civilest find lord I ever hadin my life; they brought all things that I stood inneed of unto me, without calling for them; andwhen I came off tins morning, they charged menothing, and 1 paid nothing but sixpence to theboy for dressing my horse. Blood and wounds 1said the old fellow, then I’ll go there this night.Ay, says George, do ; and mind this, when they askyou what you will have for yourself and your horse,answer nothing but “ What-you-will,” Sir. Georgesmiling within himself, to think how he had got theone extortioner to take amends of the other. Sothis innkeeper set off on his journey, and rode solate that night that he might reach the cheap inn,that most of the people were gone to bed before hearrived. As soon as he dismounted from his horse,the boy enquired at him: what shall I give yourhorse, master! To which he answered, “What-you-will,” boy. The boy hearing this, runs away(leaving him and his horse to stand at the door) upstairs to his master’s room, crying, master, master,“ What-you-will ” is come again. 0 the rogue, crieshe, where is he 1 I’ll cane him—I’ll what-you-willhim by and by. Then to him he runs witli hiscane, licks and kicks him until he was scarce ableU> mount his horse, and would give him no enter¬tainment there, which caused him to ride the wholeof a cold winter’s night, after he had got his bonesall beat and bruised. 60 the one pursued the otheras a murderer; and his defence was, that he was acheat and a scorner of his house, until the truthwas found out.6. About this time, the French king sent anddemanded from the king of England, three men ofdifferent qualities. The first was to be a mightystrong man; the second a very wise man; and thethird a very great fool; so that he might have nonein all France to match them. So, accordingly,there were two men chosen; the one a strong man,and the other a very wise man, but George was toact as the fool; nevertheless, he was the teacher ofthe other two. On their way to France, Georgeasked the strong man, what will you answer the18French king when he asks if you be a strong man*Why, says he, I’ll say I am. Then, says George,he’ll possibly get a stronger man than you, who will :kill you, and affront your country. What shall Isay then, said the strong manl Why, says George, itell him you are strong enough untried Then said {he to the wise man, and what will you say to theking, when he asks if you are a wise man 1 Why,I’ll tell him I am, and answer him all the questionsI know. Very well, says George, but what if heasks what you do not know, then you’ll affront your :country, and be looked upon as a greater fool than ime. Well, and what shall I answer then, said thewise man 1 Why, says George, tell him he is onlya wise man that can take care of himself; and Ishall come in after-you, and take care of you alto-fether. As soon as they arrived at the king of'ranee’s palace, the king sent for them to try them.The strong man was first called for, and in he went:then the king asked him if he was a strong man ?to which he answered, 0 king! I am strong enoughuntried. Very well, said the king. After him the jwise man was called; and the king asked him if he jwas a wise man 1 to which he answered, he is only : Ja wise man who can take care of himself Very iwell, says the king. On which George pushed upthe door, and in he went, with loud laughter, and !p directly in his Majesty’s face, which blinded |both his eyes, and put the whole court in amaze.Now, now, said his Majesty, it is true enough what !the wise man says, for if I had taken care of myself,I need not have been p upon by the English j ;fool. 0, ho, says George, fools always strive tomake fools of others, but wise men make fools ofthemselves. By this his Majesty seemed to think i I19ho was made the greatest fool, and charged them togo home, for he wanted no more of England'sstrength, wisdom, or folly.7. One night a Highland drover chanced to havea drinking bout with an English captain of a ship,and at last they came to be very hearty over theircups, so that they called in their servants to havea share of their liquor. The drover’s servant lookedlike a wild man, going without breeches, stockings,or shoes, not so much as a bonnet on his head, witha long peeled rung in his hand. The captain askedthe drover how long it was since he catched him iHe answered it is about two years since I hauledhim out of the sea with a net, and afterwards raninto the mountains, where I catched him with apack of hounds. The captain believed it was so;but, says he, I have a servant the best swimmer inthe world. 0, but, says the drover, my servantwill swim him to death. No, he will not, says thecaptain, I’ll lay one hundred crowns on it. Then,says the drover, I’ll lay it one to one, and stakeddirectly; the day being appointed when the trialwas to be made. Now, the drover, when he cameto himself, thinking on what a bargain he had made,did not know what do do, knowing very well thathis servant could swim none. He hearing of Georgebeing in town, who was always a good friend toScotchmen, he went unto him and told him the wholestory, and that he would be entirely broke, and durstnever return home to his own country, for he wassure to lose it. Then George called the drover andhis man aside, and instructed them how to behave,so that they should be save and gain too. So accord¬ingly they met at the place appointed. The captain’sman stript directly and threw himself into the sea,20* iking a turn until the Highlar.dman was ready, forthe drover took some time to put his servant inorder. After he was stripped, his master took hisplaid, and rolled a kebbuck of cheese, a big loaf,and a bottle of gin in it, and this he bound on hisshoulders, giving him directions to tell his wife andchildren that he was well, and to be sure he returnedwith an answer against that day se’nnight. As hewent into the sea, he looked back to his master, andcalled out to him for his claymore. And what waitshe for now 1 says the captain’s servant. He wantshis sword, says his master. His sword, says thefellow; what has he to do with a sword 1 Whyrsays his master, if he meets a whale or a monstrousbeast, it is to defend his life. I know he will haveto fight his way through the North seas, ere he getsto Lochaber. Then cried the captain’s servant, I’llswim none with him, if he takes his sword. Ay,but says his master, you shall, or lose the wager;take you another sword with you. No, says thefellow, I never did swim with a sword, nor any manelse, that ever I saw or heard of; I know not butthat wild man will kill me in deep water. I wouldnot for the whole world venture myself with himand a sword. The captain seeing his servant afraidto venture, or if he did, he would never see himagain alive, therefore he desired an agreement withthe drover, who at first seemed unwilling; but thecaptain putting it in his will, the drover quit himfor half the sum. This he came to through George’sadvice.8. George was one day met by three bishops, whopaid him the following compliments: Says the first,good-morrow, Father Abraham; says the second,"ood-morrow. Father Isaac; says the third, good-21morrow, Father Jacob. To which he replied, I amneither Father Abraham, Father Isaac, nor FatherJacob; but I am Saul, the son of Kish, sent out toseek my father’s asses, and, lol I have found threeof them. Which answer fully convinced the bishopsthat they had mistaken their man.9. A poor Scotchman dined one day at « publichouse in London upon eggs, and not having moneyto pay, got credit till he should return. The manbeing lucky in trade, acquired vast riches; andafter some years happening-to pass that way, callsat the house where he was owing the dinner of eggs.Having called for the innkeeper, he asked him whathe had to pay for the dinner of eggs he got fromhim such a time 1 The landlord seeing him nowrich, gave him a bill of several pounds, telling himas his reason for so extravagant a charge, that theseeggs, had they been hatched, would have beenchickens; and these, laying more eggs, would havebeen more chickens, and so on, multiplying the eggsand their product till such time as their valueamounted to the sum charged. The man refusingto comply with this demand, was charged before ajudge. He then made his case known to George,his countryman, who promised to appear in thehour of cause, which he accordingly did, all in asweat, with a great basket of boiled pease, whichappearance surprised the judge, who asked him whathe meant by these boiled pease! Says George, I amgoing to sow them. When will they grow, said thejudge. They will grow, said George, when soddeneggs grow chickens, which answer convinced thejudge of the extravagance of the innkeeper’s demand,and the Scotsman was acquitted for twopencehalfpenny.22oreorge, one day easing himself at the corner ofaedge, was espied by an English squire who beganto mock him, asking him why he did not keckle likthe hens 1 But George, whose wit was always ready jtold him he was afraid to keclde, lest he woukcome and snatch up the egg, which rebuff madethe squire walk off as mute as a fish.George was professor of the College of St.Andrew’s, and slipt out one day in his gown andslippers, and went on his travels through Italy, ancseveral other foreign countries, and after seven yearsreturned with the same dress he went off in; andentering the college, took possession of his seatthere; but the professor in his room quarrelled witlhim for so doing. Ay, says George, it is a very od<thing that a man cannot take a walk out in his slippers, but the other will take up his seat. And soset the other professor about his business.Two drunken fellows one day fell a beating one;another on the streets of Loudon, which caused agroat crowd of people to throng together to see;what it was. A tailor being at work up in a garret^about three or four stories high, and he hearing tlunoise in the street, looking over the window, bujjl icould not well see them; he began to stretch himself, making a long neck, until he fell down out oj|the window, and alighted on an old man who waswalking on the street; the poor tailor was mor jlafraid than hurt, but the man he fell on died dw irectly. His son caused the tailor to be apprehended I)and tried for the murder of his father; the jurcould not bring it in wilful murder, neither couhthey altogether free the tailor; the jury gave illover to the judges, and the judges to the king.The king asked George’s advice in this hard matter;23Why, says George, I will give you my opinion in aminute; you must cause the tailor to stand in thestreet where the old gentlemen was when he waskilled by the tailor, and then let the old gentleman’sson, the tailor’s adversary, get up to the windowfrom whence the tailor fell, and jump down and sokill the tailor as he did his father. The tailor’sadversary hearing the sentence past, he would notventure to jump out the window, and so the tailorgot clear off.George went into the mint one day when theywere melting gold. One of them asked George, ifhe would have his hat full of gold ? Geore readilyaccorded, but it burned the bottom out of his hat,as they knew it would, and for the bout foiled George.However, George to be up with them, bought a finelarge hat, and caused a plate of copper to be putbetwixt the hat and the lining; and returning nextday they jestingly asked him, if he would haveanother hatful of gold ? He said he would. Theygave it red hot, and George now laughed at themin his turn; telling them, that his new hat was agood one, and stood fire better than the old one,and so carried it off honestly; and being afterwardsprosecuted for to return it, he excused himself,telling the judge that he took nothing but whatwas given him, and therefore he was honourablyacquitted, and the others heartily laughed at.George being now far advanced in years, andbeing weary of the great fatigue and folly of thecourt fashions, a short time before his death, he hada great desire to visit his native country, and theplace of his nativity. Therefore he petitioned theking for permission to do so, which was granted.So he set out for Scotland, and went to the parish24of Bucnanan, in Dumbartonshire, where he visitedall his relations and friends. But George stayinglonger from the court than the time allowed, theking sent him several messages to return, to whichhe returned no answer. At last the king sent hima letter, threatening that if he did not appear beforehim in the space of twenty days he would send hisLyon Heralds for him; to which George returnedthe following answer:—My honoured liege and sovereign king,Of your hoisting great I dread nothing ;On your feud or favour I’ll fairly venture,Or that day I’ll be where few kings enter.And also gave him many good admonitions anddirections concerning the government of his king¬dom and the well-being of his soul; which drew Itears from the king’s eyes when ho read it.HOW TO READ A SIGN-BOARD.A Highland drover passing through a certain jtown, noticed a sign-board above an entry, with||the following inscriptionGreen Teas, Raw Sugars, Marmalades, JelliosjjCapped Biscuits, and all sorts of Confectionary*]!Goods, sold down this entjry,He read it as fotlu.vyd—Green Trees, Raw Sodgers, Mermaids, Jades, 3Scabbed Bitches, and all sorts of ConfusionaryGoods, sold down this entry.