PTHKMonthly Scrap Book,FOR JANUARY.Ifeaiuiinc the village rouse* up the fire ;While well attested and as well believ'd.Heard solemn, goes the goblin-story roundTill superstitious horror creeps o'er all.Or, frequent in the sounding hall, they wakeCONTENTS.Characteristic AHecdotes of the Polar Bear, Instance of an Awakened Conscience, The Man o’ th’Leather, **A Ghost Story LIScotland Forever, a New Song, The Stationer’s Chaunt, a New Song. 17Variety of Short Scraps, II*Directions for laying out a Small Garden, ..-24Garden Work to be done in January, —*DUNFERMLINE :PUBLISHED BY JOHN MILLER.1832Price One Penny.* OF SCOTLAND ;C;M"U >'TO THE PLifiLICThe suspension of our “ Gas Work,” and the conse-quent demise of Coekspur and Co., have cast a gloomover our little “ literary horizon,” which a “discerningPublic"’ will doubtless feel very depressing. Thatthe dire effects resulting from the departure ofsuch brilliant luminaries may in some measure be miti¬gated, we have resolved to draw upon, and reflect someof those Southern lights, which are so extensively dif¬fusing their corruscations under our Northern skv:and it will be our endeavour to present—not only toour own town and neighbourhood but to places far dis¬tant from us—such Extracts, and occasionally Origi¬nal Articles, as we trust will not fail to excite, in therisii g generation especially, a relish for elegant andusefi 1 reading, calculated to improve the mind and hu¬manise the affections; and thus the “ Monthly ScrapBook" may, at the year’s end, form a volume w orthreferring to, as a source of amusement for an idle hour. .But it may be necessary to explain to those who are <far from the place of our operations, to whom “ thesepresents may come”—and who may ‘find our figura¬tive language obscure as the “ unknown tongues”—that when we say “our Gas Work,” we mean to indi¬cate—“ The Gasometer, or, Dunfermline^; LiteraryMagazine, for 1831to which Messrs Cockinir, Bat¬wing, Argand, and Jet, were contributor^. Wewould further intimate to such as may wish to possessthemselves of the Work, that a few copies still remainon hand, price Five Shillings in cloth, which may behad of Mr A Macredie, Bookseller, St. David’sStreet, Edinburgh ; or of the Publisher, Bridge Street,Dunfermline.THEMONTHIiY SCRAP BOOK.THE BEAR.There through the piny forest half absorpt.Rough Unant of those shades, the shapeless bear.With di ngling ice all horrid, stalks forlorn :Slow-pac’d, and sourer as the storms increase.He makes his bed beneath th’ inclement drift;And, with stern patience, scorning weak complaint,Hardens his heart against assailing want.T110 01 SO S".The annals of the North are filled with accountsof the most perilous and fatal conflicts with thePolar bear. The first, and one of the mosttragical, was sustained by Barents and Heem-skerh in 1596, during their voyage for the dis¬covery of the north-east passage. Having an¬chored at an island near the strait of Weygatz,two of the sailors landed, and were walking onshore, when one of them felt himself closelyhugged from behind. Thinking this a frolic ofone of his companions, he called out, in a corres¬ponding tone, ‘ Who’s there? pray stand oft.’His comrade looked, and screamed out, ‘ A bear!a bearthen running to the ship, alarmed thecrew with loud cries. The sailors ran to thespot, armed with pikes and muskets. On theirapproach, the bear very coolly quitted the mangledcorpse, sprang upon another sailor, carried himoff, ami plunging his teeth into his body, begandrinking his blood at long draughts. Hereupon,the whole of that stout crew, struck with terror.4 THE MONTHLYturned their backs, and fled precipitately to theship. On arriving there they began to look ateach other, unable to feel much satisfaction withtheir own prowess. Three then stood forth, un¬dertaking to avenge the fate of their countrymen,and secure to them the rites of burial. Theyadvanced, and fired at first from so respecta¬ble a distance, that all missed. The purserthen courageously proceeded in front of his com¬panions, and, taking a close aim, pierced themonster’s skull immediately below the eye. Thebear, however, merely lifted his head, and ad¬vanced upon them, holding still in his mouth thevictim whom he was devouring ; but seeing himsoon stagger, the three rushed on with sabre andbayonet, and soon dispatched him. They collec¬ted and bestowed decent sepulture on the mangledlimbs of their comrades, while the skin of theanimal, thirteen feet loos', became the prize ofthe sailor who had fired the successful shot.The history of the whale-fishery records anumber of remarkable escapes from the bear.A Dutch captain, Jonge Kees, in 1668, under¬took, with two canoes, to attack one, and witha lance gave him so dreadful a wound in thebelly, that bis immediate death seemed inevitable.Anxious, therefore, not to injure the skin, Keesmerely followed the animal close, till he shoulddrop aoWn dead. The bear, however, havingclimbed a little rock, made a spring from thedistance of twenty-four feet upon the captain,who, taken completely by surprise, lost hold ofSCRAP BOOK* 5the lance, and fell beneath the assailant, whoplacing both paws on his breast, opened two rowsof tremendous teeth, and paused for a moment,as if to shew him all the horrors of his situation.At this critical instant, a sailor, rushing forwardwith only a scoop, succeeded in alarming themonster, who made off, leaving the captainwithout the slightest injury.In 1788, Captain Cook, of the Archangel,when near the coast of Spitzbergen, found him¬self suddenly between the paws of a bear. Heinstantly called upon the surgeon who accom¬panied him to fire, which the latter did withsuch admirable promptitude and precision, thathe shot the beast through the head, and deliveredthe captain. Mr Hawkins, of the Everthrope,in July 1818, having pursued and twice strucka large bear, had raised his lance for a third blow,when the animal sprang forward, seized him bythe thigh, and threw him over its head into thewater. Fortunately it used this advantage, onlyto effect its own escape. Captain Scoresbymentions a boat’s crew which attacked a bear inthe Spitzbergen sea ; but the animal having suc¬ceeded in climbing the sides of the boat, all thesailors threw themselves, for safety, into thewater, where they hung by the gunwale. I hevictor entered triumphantly, and took possessionof the barge, W’here it sat quietly, till it was shotby another party. The same writer mentionsthe ingenious contrivance of a sailor, who, being,pursued by one of these creatures, threw downTHE MONTHLY6successively his hat, jacket, handkerchief, and ievery other article in his possession, when the ibrute pausing at each, gave the sailor always acertain advantage, and enabled him finally toregain the vessel.Though the ferocity of the bear is such, thathe has been known to feed on his own species,yet maternal tenderness is as conspicuous in thefemale, as in the other inhabitants of the frozen |regions. 1 here is no exertion which she willnot make for the supply of her progeny. A !she-bear, with her two cubs, being pursued by jsome sailors across a field of ice, and finding that,neither by example, nor by a peculiar voice andaction, she could urge them to the requisitespeed, applied her paws, and | itched them alter¬nately forward. The little creatures themselves,as she came up, threw themselves before her toreceive impulse, and thus both she and theyeffected their escape. Cab. Library.AN AWAKENED CONSCIENCE.The following remarkable circumstance is ex¬tracted from the “ Life and Diary of the Rev.Ebenezer Erskine,” just published ; and is avery striking instance of the principle within usresponding to the voice of inspiration.At one time Mr Erskine, after travelling,towards the end of the week, from Eortmoakto the banks of the Forth, on his way to Edin-SCRAP BOOK. 7burgh, he, with several others, was preventedby a storm from crossing that frith. Thusobliged to remain in Fife during the Sabbath,he was employed to preach, it is beli'eved, inKinghorn. Conformably to his usual practice,he prayed earnestly in the morning for thedivine countenance and aid in the work of theday; but suddenly missing his note-book, heknew not what to do. His thoughts, however,were directed to that command, “ Thou shallnot kill and having studied the subject withas much care as the time would permit, he de¬livered a short sermon on it in fhe forenoon af¬ter the lecture. Having returned to his lodging,he gave strict injunctions to the servant that noone should be allowed to see him during theinterval of worship. A stranger, however,who was also one of the persons detained by thestate of the weather, expressed an earnest desireto see the minister ; and having with difficultyobtained admittance, appeared much agitated,and asked h m, with great eagerness, whetherhe knew him, or had ever seen or heard of him.On receiving assutance that he was totally un¬acquainted with his face, character, or history,the gentleman proceeded to state that his sermonon the sixth command had reached bis conscience;that he was a murderer ; that being the secondson of a Highland laird, he had some time be¬fore, from base and selfish motives, cruelly suf¬focated his elder broth* r, who slept in the same.,bed with him ; and that now he had no peace& 'tub 'monthlyof mind, nnd \rished to surrender himself to -ifjustice, to suffer the punishment due to his hor- >rid and unnatural crime. Mr Erskiue askedhim if any other person knew any thing of his iguilt. His answer was, that so far as he was iaware, not a single individual had the ieast sus¬picion of it; on which the good man exhortedhim to be deeply affected with a sense of hisatrocieus sin, to make an immediate applicationto the blood of sprinkling, and to bring forthfruits meet for repentance; but at the same time,since, in providence, his crime had hitherto re-,mained a secret, not to disclose it, or give him¬self up to publip justice. The unhappy gentle¬man embraced this well-intended council in allits parts, Vfecame ttuly pious, and maintained afriendly correspondence with this “ servant ofthe Most High God” in future life. It is added,that after he withdrew, the minister had thehappiness to recover the manuscript formerlymissing ; and, in consequence, preached in theafternoon on the topic he had originally in view.THE MAN O’ TH’ LEATHER.Some fifty years ago, an honest townsman ofCarrick-on-Suir, a currier by trade, and DarbyO’Donnell by name, (mine own well-known andlately deceased grandfather too, by -tlie-bye,)happened to traffic for several scores of hideswith a dealer at Cashel. The price was agreedupon, the money laid down, and an arrangementSCRAP BOOK. 9made, that the merchandize should be sent inthe course of a few days to the purchaser’s store¬house at Carrick. The sparkling joy of life,fair uisgebetha, was then, of course, brought in;the current prices of goods, the hopes, fears, andscandal of the trade, were at first introduced ;moderate argument succeeded on indifferentsubjects ; and, as the goblet passed, the tannersforgot their cares and drudging occupations—laughed, sang, jested and toasted, until theshades of evening began to veil them from eachother. O’Donnell hastily rose and bade hishost adieu, as the latter called for lights. Helingered, however, with his hat and the partingeup, until prim Peggy appeared with the lamp ;a moment of silence then ensued. The tannerof Cashel’s eye roamed over the solid table, hethrust his hand into his pockets, looked extremelypozed, and on his customer’s again wishing himgood night, with more obstinacy than became acourteous host, opposed his departure. O’Donnellwas nettled—the more especially as the cupswere void, and the Cashel-man had made nomotion to replenish ; and being much the stron¬ger man of the two, at length broke by mainforce from his grasp and gained the door. “ By>St. Patrick, Sir, you’re too bad,” said he, ad¬justing his disordered cravat, “ one word tobusiness, and then good night. Send me thegoods by Thady Conor’s waggon on Wednesday.”His host was silent.—.“ I want no writingor acknowledgement,” continued Darby, “for10 THE MONTHLYthe cash.” The Cashel-man looked back at thetable, and turned his pockets most eloquently in¬side out. “ Though I paid you in hard money,without drawback, you remember,” added thethe tanner of Carrick.“ You put de money on de board,” crokedthe Cashel man.“ Yes, I know,” said Darby.“ But you took it up and fobbed it again, Ibelieve,” pursued the other.It would be impossible to put down in goodset terms the ensuing dialogue. Darby’s honestblood was instantly wanned with the aspersion.The one roundly asserted what the other as po¬sitively denied. The debate grew hot, eachbeing positive that he was right, and his oppo¬nent an arrant rogue. From words they natu¬rally enough came to a thwacking contest, where¬in. Darby was, as usual in such cases, complete¬ly victorious. After thrashing his opponent tohis heart’s content, he walked quietly to his imijsaddled his horse, and in his high flow of spiritsand internal triumph for the victory, neverthought of the cause of the quarrel, until hereached his own pillow at Carrick.Ab nit a week after this, the Cashel-man’sdoor was rudely assaulted about twilight, and onreconnoitring through the window, be discoveredthe outline of an unknown leg at the door.“Who waits there A’ said he, surlily.“’Tis 1, the man o th’ leather,” was the reply.SCRAP HOOK. 11“ Go to the devil ye tief—ye don’t chate me—ye’ll heave no leader o’ mine—repent! repent!” -said the Cashel-man turning on his heel.It was in vain that O’Donnell knocked withall his force, and loudly vociferated at the door.The Cashel-man quietly sat down to his uisge-betha j in due time thrust his red pat into his lin-sey-wolsey nightcap, and went orderly to bed.O’Donnell repeated his visit to the Cashel-man’s door with similar success every succeedingmarket eve for many weeks. At length circum¬stances occurred that induced him to attend adifferent mart, lie wrote off the value of thehides on the loss side of his ledger, with theword Roubery engrossed in large letters onthe margin, and in the course of a few monthsfbrgot the subject altogether.But it was not ordained that the matter shouldrest here. On one of those “dark gloomy daysin November,” when men instinctively poreover the bad sides of their accounts, Darby’s eyefell upon the aforesaid word Robbery in hisbulky, by-gone ledger. The date was twoyears old, but the circumstances of the ‘ robbery’were conjured up by his memory in a moment.He saw the whole details of the matter at once,and—after heartily cursing himself for being sucha fool as to put up w ith so barefaced a cheat—saddled the sorrel nag, and trotted oil to Cashel.Formerly he deemed the drubbing which ho hadinflicted, worth at least half the money ; bet atthis lapse of time it appeared marvelously de-the monthlyn eased in value, and about equivalent only to thele^al interest thereof. 1 he principal sum, orthe leather, he was resolved to have, and this heswore innumerable times, accompanying eachoath with a heavy thwack to solemnize it, on theloins of the astonished nag, in order to keep hisresolution to the sticking place, and that, beingreligiously bound, he should have no possibleloop-hole for sneaking oft unsatisfied.A tremendous pull at a pitcher of whisky onlus arrival at Cashel, about night-fall, augment¬ed his resolution “ to get at his rights j” andafter shaking hands and shipping tankards witha few old friends in the inn-kitchen, and seeinghis horse doubly fed by way of salvo or remune¬ration for the double beating he had endured,©nr hero inquired for the Cashel-man.“ Is it Timmy Grogan you mean ? Troththen he lives in the overright street just,” saidthe ostler. What! in the same house he hadtwo years back?” “Not de same—but onelike it—de neighbour to it—but if ye’re goingto 'J immy, take heed and don’t be foul o' theould bouse, the which (his presence be with us!)has been haunted dese ten months. Timmy-left it ’kase de ghosts terrified him.”“I’ll mind, I’ll mind,” said Darby, stridingforth with his hat cocked, his left arm a-kimbo,and his right hand grasping with superfluousenergy a huge shillalah. “ I’ll mind,” said he,“ I’H mind thinking of any thing else ratherthan the instructions of the ostler. He arrivedSCrtAl* BOOK. 13in the centre of the “ overright street,” assumeda more sedate and business-like pace, and pro¬ceeded to the door. “ It’s late,” quoth he, asthe clocks around tinkled the tenth hour—“ butnever mind—the fellow ! I’ll switch him.” Sosaying he applied his staff with great vigour tothe stout door-pannels. A hollow sound, andseveral faint echoes succeeded, but no mortalanswer was returned—“ Ah ! curse him ! he’sa-bed, is he?” said Darby, “ Well that’s thebetter—I’ll have him up—I will, by the holySalt! Och ! it’s worried you’ll be to-night,Misther Grogan, I’ll engage.” The door wasagain assailed with redoubled vigour; and assoon as the echoes subsided, a light step washeard within, as if stealthily approaching thedoor. Darby waited a few moments, but theutmost silence prevailed—he knocked impatient¬ly again—“ Hollo ! is any one there ?”No voice replied, and Darby repeated histerrible peal upon the door.( To be concluded in our next.)A GHOST STORY.At a town in the west of England a club oftwenty-tour people assembled once a week todrink punch, smoke tobacco, and talk politics.Each member had his peculiar chair, and it was a rule, that if a member was ab¬sent his chair should remain vacant.One evening at the meeting of the club therewas a vacant chair, which had remained emptyavi4 THE MONTHLYfor several nights. It belonged to a member whowas believed to be in a dying state, and inquirieswere naturally ma le after their associate. Helived in the adjoining house. A particularfriend went himself to inquire for him, and re¬ported to the club that he could not possibly sur¬vive the niffht. This dismal tidings threw adamp on the company. They took oft' theirglasses without turning lively ; they smoked,and still they were gloomy: all efforts to turnthe conversation agreeably were ineffectual.At about midnight, the time when the clubwas usually most cheerful, a silence prevailed inthe room, the door gently opened, and the form,in white, of the dying man, walked into theroom, and took a seat in the accustomed chair.There it remained in silence, and in silence wasgazed at. His appearance continued a sufficienttime in the' chair to convince all present of thereality of the vision. But they were in a strifeof awful astonishment. At length the appari¬tion arose and stalked towards the door, openedit, as if living—went out, and closed the doorafterwards.After a long pause, a member at last had theresolution to say, “ If only one of us had seenthis, he would not have been believed, but it isimpossible that s > many persons can be deceived.”The company by degrees recovered theirspeech ; and the whole conversation, as may beimagined, was respecting the object of theiralarm. Thev broke up in a body and went home.SCRAPBOOK. 15In the morning, inquiry was made after theirsick friend. He had died as nearly as possibleabout the time of his appearing at the club.There was scarcely room for doubt before, butnow there was absolute certainty of the realityof the apparition.The story spread over the country, and wasso well attested as to obtain general belief; lor,in this ca e, the fact was attested bv three-and-twenty credible eye-witnesses, all of them living.Several years had elapsed, and the story hadceased to engage attention, and was almost for¬gotten, when one of the club, who was an apo¬thecary, in the course of his practice attended anold woman, who gained her living by nursingsick persons. She was now ill herself, and find¬ing her end near at hand, site told the apothecaryshe could leave the world with a good conscience,except for one thing which lay on her mind.—“ Do not you remember,” she said, “the poorgentleman whose ghost has been somueh talkedof? I was his nurse. The night he died I leftthe room for something I wanted—I am sure Ihad not been absent long ; but, at my return, Ifound the bed without my patient. I knew hewas delirious, and 1 feared that he had thrownhimself out of the window. 1 was so frightenedthat 1 had no power to stir: but after some time,to my great astonishment, he came back shiver¬ing, and laid down on the bed, and died; Con¬sult! ing l had done wrong by leaving him, Ikept it a secret that he had left the room; and16 THE MONTHLYindeed I did not know wliat might be done to.me. 1 knew I could explain all the story of theghost, hut I dared not do it. From what hadhappened I was certain that it was he himselfwho had been in the club room, perhaps recol¬lecting that it was the night of meeting. MayI be forgiven for keeping it secret so long!—andif the poor gentleman’s friends forgive me, Ishall die in peace.” Year Book.SCOTLAND, FOREVER!Tor the Monthly Scrap Book.When Wallace, the peerless, betray’d by false traitorsM ust live the low vassal of England or die !He went to the block with a smile on his feature,And “ Scotland forever !” exulting did cry.When Scotia’s proud barons, combin’d with Eliza,Decoy’d the fair flower of lyochleven away;Her wrongs she forgot, poor unfortunate Mary IAnd “ Scotland forever !” she sigh’d night and day.When the diadem of Charles was lost at Culloden,And with it, the hopes of his clansmen so true,A tear dimm’d those wan cheeks, the green plaid was shrouding.And “ Scotland forever !” he bade thee adieu !When gallant Sir Ralph beat Napoleon in Egypt,And tarnish’d the vaunting Invincible’s name,As life ebb’d away, and while victory was sounding,Oh ! “ Scotland forever 1” he still did exclaim.When Park amidst dangers unbounded was wand’ring.The earth for his pillow—his covering the sky;Ah ! what led this martyr of science to glory ?’Twas “ Scotland forever ! his country’s dear tie.And what was the watchward of Britain triumphant.When France's choice legions were forced far to fly ?When the Greys charged the heroes of Friedland and Jena,’Twas “ Scotland forever !” the shout and reply.I it l England exult in her gay blooming roses ;Let Ireland enraptur’d her shamrock entwine ;While Virtue resides in the lowlands of Scotland..And valour sits crown’d on her mountains sublime. Q 7,SCRAP BOCK17THE STATIONER'S CHAUNT.A New Song.When the wise men of Gotham were call’d to decide,On the best means of keeping besiegers outside.The Poulterer placed a great weight on a feather.And the Shoemaker stood to the last upon leather,Tol lol de rol lol, Ac.It is thus each one thicks his own bus’ness the beet,And moves on, if he can, at the cost of the rest;But exceptions there are to all rules—we’re to this,Bor, if we’re not Stationers, who the deuce is ?Aral yet, if one e’er of their bus’ness may boast;Let me ask if we might not indulge in’t the most;When we think that, but, for what I deal in—and you,Alan’s mind, like our Stock, had been statiou'ry too.Why, each one of us, should but the earth need a prop,Could supply a -Vetc Allas from out his own shop ;And if e’er a State in’t a government seek.Imperial or Royal they’ll have in a week.Nay, if it will rot have the Medium we use,Super-Royal, or even Double Crown it may choose ;But if Anarchy rather it seek—to its shame—eh 1We might send it our purse in a large lot of Demy,Your Statesmen and Patriots we’ll suit to a hair.Not with Foolscaps alone—which so many might wear,But with that I am sure they of all things wish most,Be’t of Kent or of Country—a very fine Post,The lover may have the full use of a quire,l f his mistress to serenade he but desire,Whilst Hot-pressing, he’ll learn, that a wife if fantastic,Is the better—like Ledgers—o{ being Elastic.And if in extent her expenditure beAntiyuaiian—either for Sugar or Tea,We’ve a remedy too for his poor hen-peck’d lot,Since he’s only to send the virago to Pot.Then a bumper let’s drink to the fam’d paper trade,And consumpt to papers, coarse, line, wove or laid ;For of all trades it surely doth hold the first rank,Without it you know there’s an end of the Bank.And, since like a letter I’ve sealed up my song.The address it but wants, which need not be long,So I’ll send it, my friends, to two funny chiels.The remainder now of the Three- far-fam'd Dells,'fol de rol lol, Ac. Ae,18THE MONTHLYVARIETIES.Liberty of the Press.—If the Liberty of thePrevSs be, what we tirmly believe it is, that po¬litical blessing which includes all other, or thatat least, without which all others would becomecurses, how much does it behove all those whoperceive and feel its value, to struggle not fac-tiously or indiscreetly, but with all the intrepidi¬ty which virtue and good sense authorise, to de¬fend and preserve it ? The Liberty of the Pressembraces all other liberty, civil and religious.Without it, no people or government can be free.How are grievances to be redressed, if they arenot to be stated ? How are law's to be amend¬ed, if their tendency and expediency cannot beconsidered and discussed ? There can be nosuch rights as those our ancestors fought for,bled for, and died for, if the people cannot talkabout the subject of them, write about them, andin short, exercise the Liberty of the Press re¬specting them. V\ hen die law gives rights, itgives also the means of exercising them. Nay,it gives more ; it gives moreover, the presump¬tion of innocence in the exercise. It is not tobe presumed that any man has a criminal intentin availing himself of a constitutional privilege.When another motive is asserted, it is incum¬bent on him who makes the averment to proveit by unequivocal evidence. If room be left fora rational doubt, the accused is entitled to a ver¬dict in his favour. Scotsman.SCRAP BOOK. 19Refractory Dogs.—In a parish in Scotland,great complaints were made agamst the distur¬bances occasioned during divine service by thequarrelling, or otherwise unmannerly conduct oftbedogs, when it was agreed that all thosewhohaddogs should confine them, and not allow themto come to church. This did very well for thefirst Sunday or so ; but the dogs not at all re¬lishing to be locked up on a day when they werewont to enjoy themselves, were never to befound on a Sunday morning to be tied up ; they,by some instinct which 1 cannot explain, knewthe Sunday as well as their masters, and set offbefore them whither they had been in the habitof going on that day. It was now evident totire members of the congregation that this planwould not do, and another scheme was laid be¬fore them, which was, to erect a house close tothe church, in which they might be confinedduring divine service. This was adopted, anda kennel was accordingly erected, in which thedogs were imprisoned ; but the animals beingmore accustomed to freedom than to confine¬ment, took very ill with the restraint putupon their liberty, and set up a most dreadfulhowling, to the great annoyance of the people inthe church. They, however, persevered in con¬fining them for a considerable time, thinking theanimals would get accustomed to incarceration ;but in this they were mistaken ; for, instead ofthe howling diminishing, it got worse and worse.So it was agreed they should again be set atthe mosthltliberty, and have freedom of access to the placeof public worship ; but their manners had beenso corrupted, that they were with difficulty re¬stored even to their former discipline.A De/inition.—When the notorious Jeffreyswas a barrister, a gentleman in the course ofhis evidence was making use of the law termslessor and lessee, assignor and assignee: whichmight have escaped observation, had not his tes¬timony been directly against Jeffrey’s client.You there, with your law terms of your lessorand lessee, and of your assignee and your assig¬nor, do you know what a lessee or lessor is ?I don’t believe that you know that, for all yourformal evidence.’ ‘ Yes, Sir George,’ said thewitness, in reply to this gasconade, * but I do,and I will give you this instance : if I nod toyou, I am the nodder. and if you nod to me,then I am the noddee.’A Great IVall.—The substance of the greatwall of China, which extends along a space ofJ.500 miles from the shore of the Yellow Sea toW estern I artary, has been estimated by MrBarrow to exceed in quantity that of all thehouses in Great Britain, and to be capable ofsurrounding the whole earth with a wall severalfeet high.Mr Peter Glass.—Mr Peter Glass, ministerof Crail, in Fife, about the middle of the eigh¬teenth century, was one of the old school ofPresbyterian Clergymen,—addressed himself inSCRAP BOOK. iJlfamiliar terms to the Almighty,—spoke to in¬dividuals of his congregation during publicworship,—and invariably preached iTi good broadScotch, using all the homely technical termsappropriate to the subjects he happened to havein hand. His parishioners being mostly fisher¬men, he was praying one day that the Lordwould fill the men’s boats \vi’ herrin’, up to thevery tow-holes,—that is, \ve suppose, up to thespaces in which the oars work.—when one ofthe persons concerned, roared out, ‘ Na, no thatfar, sir, or we wad a’ be sunk !’Xative Wit.—A farmer’s wife called to hercowherd—‘Jock, come in to your parritch, orthe flees ’ill a’ drown in the milk,” to which theurchin roguishly replied,—‘ There’s nae fear,they may wade through’!.’ His mistress indig¬nant at this aspeision on her liberality, exclaimed,“ W hat, ye loon, that’s saying ye dinna geteneugh.” ‘ Ou aye,’ said Jock, ‘ there’s ayeeneugh for the parritch.”Hidden Talents.—A gentleman once in¬troduced his son to Rowland Hill, by letter, asa youth of great promise, and as likely to dohonour to the university of which he was a mem¬ber. ‘ But he is shy,’ added the father, ‘ andidle, and I fear buries his talents in a napkin.’A short time afterwards the parent, anxious forthe reverend gentleman’s opinion, enquired wliathe thought of his son ? ‘ 1 have shaken thenapkin,’ said Rowland Hill, ‘ at all corners, andthere is nothing in it,’22 THE MONTHLYOld and New Style.—Since the commence-irent of the present century, the difference be¬tween the old and new style is twelve days :another day in addition to the prior elevenhaving been thrown out in the year 1800, byassigning to February only twenty-eight days.This loss of a day to the whole civilized worldwas scarcely remarkable-at the time.Buying a Husband.—Alicia Keating, ahale, stout, hearty-looking wench, and a candi¬date for matrimony, was charged by her brotherat the Dublin Post Office for robbing her fatherof £140, for the purpose of buying a husband.Her brother, who preferred the charge, statedthat his sister went off with her own cousin, ayoung gossoon, about sixteen years ould, andwho would not be married for twenty years tocome. This cousin of his was a great drinkerand reprobate, and an estate would not last him—rshure he got an hundred and eight otddginnees, and forty-two pounds in notes, fromhis sister, and if he could be found he wouldprosecute him—at all events she should be pro¬secuted. Magistrate—Do you wish to swearagainst her ? If you do I must send her toNewgate. Musha, your Honour, replied thebrother, you may send her wherever yourHonour chooses. Prisoner—Arrah sure Ionly tuck a trifle to pay our passage to America.He was a cousin of my own, and a weW-larnedboy, and a baker besides, and, l give a’ the moneyto him, and I don’t know where he is. Magis-SCIIAP BOOK.28trate—Do you mean to swear informations n-gainst her? Brother—Sartainhj, your Worship.I he two oi than must be committed, and hang¬ing is too good for them ; shure did’nt his hi¬ther say he ought to be hanged long ago ? Hethen proceeded to lodge informations, when thebrother re-appeared, and begged of his Worshipto keep her over till the mornen, when theymight get the hoy. To this the Magistrate as¬sented, and the loving brother departed, heap¬ing benedictions on his Worship.Selling a Wife.—The following, memoran¬dum (says the Stockport Advertiser), drawnupon a Is 6d stamp, will best explain the natureot a bargain between two fellows at a beer-shopin the Hillgate, in this toum. Millward is abutcher, and was last week fined before ourmagistrates for using uneven balances in histrading transactions. I he other persons areunknown to us.—“ I Booth M ilium d, bought ofM illiam Clayton, his wife, for five shillings,to be delivered on the 25th of March, 1881, to"bedelivered in a alter, at Mr John Lomases house.Vi illiam Clayton.Attested by three Witnesses.A New Coat.—An Irishman vindicated theshortness of his coat liy insisting, that it w»uldbe long enough before he got a new one.THE MONTHLYDirections for laying out a Small Garden,of Twenty Falls of ground.2 Palls of early Potatoes.42212do.do.do.do.do.late do.early Cabbagelate do.Savoys.Greens.Total, 20 Falls.2 Falls of Leeks & Onions2 do. Pease.1 do. Beans.1 do. Carrots.0^ do. early Turnips.0^ do. late do.Garden Work to be done in January.In mild weather, sow early, pease and beans, like¬wise radishes, cresses, and lettuces, in warmsheltered situations. Sow these seeds prettythick ; and if frost set in strong, spread somedry long litter over the beds. In mild weather,if formerly omitted, prune apple, pear, cherry,and plumb trees ; also gooseberries and currants.Plant fruit and forest trees, thorns, and otherhardy shrubs, in open weather. Turn up strongsoil to meliorate with the frost ; also such flowerborders as are empty, to be in readiness at thetime of planting. In hard frosty weather carrydung, and be careful of tender seedling trees,shrubs, evergreens, &c. by sheltering them fromthe frost.  January !*■/. ho. m.Day breaks about 6 39Sun Rises, 8 4 -Sets,   .3 56Twilight ends, 5 59January 31a7. ho.Day breaks, 5Sun Rises, 7  -Sets, 4Twilight ends,....6The clays now lengthen very perceptibly.in.45£93129