Tli£[STORY of BUCHAVENIN FIFESHIRE,I Containing the Witty and Entertaining{Exploits of Wise WillieANDWITTY EPPIEEDINBURGH *.PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLER^.1823.THBHISTORYOFBUCHAVENIn the county of Fyfe, on the sea-coast,there stands a little town inhabited by fewbut fishers, called Buckey-harbour, be¬cause of sea buckies and shells to be fcumlso plenty on the rocks about that place.There is little mention made of this townby historians, to knov' its original extrac¬tion and antiquities, but in their own Bur*gess-Ticket, which was partly truth, but4more of it by way of lampoon. ThisTick, i was dated the two and thirtieth dayof the mont h ot Julius Caesar. Their Coatof rms was tv o hands gripping eaCh o-ther over a Scale’s rumple. This oathwas,* “ I wish that de de‘il may tak me anI binna an nonest man to jou, an ye binnade like to ni'3.“ An article of good neigh¬bourhood they had, whoever was first upin a good morning, was to rise all the restto go to sea ; but if a ver) bad morning,piss and go to bed again till break of day,then raise wise Willie, who could judge ofthe weather by the blawing of the wind—Their freedoms were, to take all sorts offish contained in their ticket, viz. Lob¬sters, partens, podles, spout fish, sea-cats,sea-dogs, fluks, piks, dick puddpcks, andp—fish.'Again, these people are said to have de*scended from one Tom and his two sons,who were fishers on the coast of Norway,who, in a violent storm, were blownt>ver,tind got a shore at Buck-harbour, wherethey settled ; and the whole of his childrenwere called Tom sons, and soon becamea little town by themselves, as few of anyother name dwelt among them, This is atraditional story handed down from onegeneration to another—They kept butlittle communication with country peopleabout them, for a farmer, in those days,thought his daughter cast away, if she mar¬ried one ot the other hand, witty Eppiethe ale-wife wad a sworn Bugo laddie, Iwad rather see my boat an a‘ my threesons daded against the Bass or I saw ooyi ane o‘ them married to a muck-a-byre'si daughter j a wheen useless tappies, it cani do uaething but rive at a towrock and cuti corn, they cm neither bait a hook nori redd a line, houk sand-eels,'nqr gather pir-§j riwinkles. 4Now wise Willie and wittie Eppie thej ale wife lived there abouta hundred yearsi ago. EppieS? chamber was their collegeij and Court-House where they decided con-' v;\6troversies, and explained their wanders;for the house was like a little kirk, hadfour windows and gavle door, the wivesgot leave to flyte their till, but fighting'was prohibited, as Eppie said, up handswas fair play. The fines was a pint o’ale, and Eppie sold it at a plack the pint.They had neither minister nor magistrate,nor yet a burlie bailie, to brag them wfhis tolbooth. The Lord o’ ihe manor de¬cided all disputable po;nts, and Wise Wil¬lie and Witty Eppie were'the rulers of- the townNow Eppie had a daughter, she ca’dXingle-tail’d Nancy, because of her feck-7ss growth; her waist was like a twitter,id nae curpen for a cieel, being Edin'argh bred, and brought up wi* her Lou-ten aunty, was learned to read and sew,lade coarse claith, and calicoe mancoes;Here was nae scholar in the town but her-;1, she read the bible, and the book otjirk sangs that was newly come in fa-hion. Willie and Eppie tell’d them ay?hat he meant, and said a the letters in, was litted by my Lord, for they saw himiae a feather that he dipped in black wa-er, and made crooked scores, just like thelame; and then he spake o'er again, andt tell’d him what to say.'In happened on a day that two of theirwives near the town, found a horse shoe,land brought it home and sent for Willie::to see what it was ; Willie comes andClocks at it ; Indeed, co* Willie, its a thingland holes in’t. I kent, co’ they, he wad;get a name till’t. A* ho’ ? co’ Willie,rfwhar did ye find it? Aneath my Lord’sain house, Wiliie. Adeed, said Willie, itsthe auld moon, I ken by the holes in’t, ?ornaihng it to the lift: but I winder it shefell in Fyfe, for the last time it l saw hershe was hinging on her back abqon Edin-I-sburgh. A been, cof Willie, we‘ll set heup m the highest house in the town, anc [; me moonlight o‘ our ain a* the da^!o4 the ear i he whole town ran to se<the moor.! Honest tout, saul witty Eppie,ye‘re but a4 fools thegither; its out aneo« the thing it my Lords mare wears uponhis lufe,> .. ]At another time one of the wives foundah.ne with its legs broken, lying amongher kaii in the ^ard. She not knowingwhat it was. called out to her neighbours,to see it; some said it was a gentleman's!cat, or a lady's lap-dog, or a sheep's,young kittlen, because it had Laft horns;’ Na, oa, cri d wise Willie, its ane o* themaukms that gentlemen's dogs wone.What will w’e do v i t ? Faith, co‘ they all, |we‘11 singe the v/oo aff, and n;ake fish andsauce o'f to my Tammy's parich, Ntt na,said Winv Eppie, better gie't to my Lord,| and he‘IE stap an iron stick through the1 there happened to be some tinker'sassteth*» ered. Tlie poor ass seeing the two wives> coming with the creels, thought it was thet tinkers coming to flit or relieve him, fella crying, the two wives threw their fish ja* awa‘, and ran hame like mad persons,crying they had seen the deil, ay, the veryhorned deil, and that he spoke to them; guts o‘t, and gart rin| till it be roasted.If happened on a dark winter m«rnmg,, that two of their wives were going to Dy-sart to sell their fish; and on the road sideI19bat they didna ken what he said, for itwas waur than a highlandman’s j thewhole town was in an uproar; somewould go with picks and spades, and hagghim to pieces j others would go and catchhim in a strong net, and then they wouldeither hang or drown him. Na, na, co*Wise Willie, we manna cast out wd* him atthe first, as he’s gotten the tvva burdens o’fish, he’ll e’en gang his wa, and no fash usnae mair; he is o’er soitple to be catch’din a/net; a’ your pith will neither hangnor drowu him, and the kintry he comesfrae is a’ het coals, he’d never bum ; We’llgae to him in a civil manner, and see whathe wants, Get out Witty Eppie and lingle-tail'd Nancy wi* the Bible and Psalm-uook : oC aff the)?to kill the deil, or catch him aloe; and asthey came near the place, the ass fell a-crying, which caused many of them tofaint and run back. No, na, co* Willie,jthit’s no the deil’s words at a’, its myLord’s trumpter, routing on his brasswtnsU?, Willie ventured till he sawT theass’ twa lugs. Now, said Willie, comeforwards an.’ baud him fast, I sec his twahorns; hech sir, he has a white beard likeanauid man. So they inclosed t,he poor11neither cow nor horse, An' what is‘t then,Willie ? indeed co‘Willie, its the fathero‘ the maukins, 1 ken by its lang lugs.Now some say this history is too aatiri*cal ; but it is according to the knowledgeot those times, not to say one place by a-not her. Thp old wives will tell you yetof many such stories of fl devil appear¬ing to their grandfathers grandrndthers,ass on all sides, thinking it was the deil;Jbut when Wise Willie saw he had nae cl©»|ven feet, he cried out. Scarna lads, this isbeast j it*sis ,and dead wives coming back again to visit I tth. ir families long after being dead; S<Mthis Buehaven was once noted for drollexploits ; but it is now become more iiknown, and a place now produces the 'hardiest sailors of any town on the Scotss jcoast. Yet many of the old people in itstill retain the old tincture of their ancientand uncuitivate speech, such as Be go*laddie; they are also of a fiery nature, forif you ask any of their wives, where theirCollege stands, they‘11 tell you, if your nosewas in their a—e, your mouth would beat the door of it.Now, it happened when Wise Willie fturned oH, he fook a great swelling in hiswame, and casting up his kail, collops andcauld fish, that nothing could stand on his Istomach ; and a stout stomach he had, forcrabs heads, and scate-broo, or brose in abridal morning; yet it fail'd him, and he ifell sick. None could cure hiir, nor tellw hatail'd him t.;ll amountebank stage doctorc me to Kircaldy, that could judge by peo- jpie's piss the trouble of ti eir person. Wise |Willie hearing i f the fame pissed into theJ;bottle, and sent it away with his daughter. |rihe bottle being uncorked, his daughter19( spilt it by the way, and to conceal her>4 sloth in so doing, pissed in it herself, andijon she goes, till she came to the stage-doc-< tor, when she cried out aloud, Sir Doctor,itSir Doctor, here is a bottle of my fathersr wash, he has a sair guts, and need* na dnteonv, but spues a‘ he eats. Its true 1 tellf you my dow. The doctor looks at it,( then says, its not your father's surely, itsS your mither's. The deil's m the man, saidCl she, divna I ken my father trae my mither.Then, saiu he, he is with child. The deil's. in the man, co' she, for my mither bare a*? de bairns before, dat's no true sir, fegsi ye're a great liar. Hame she comes, andHell'd’Willie, her father, that the doctorI said he was wi» bairn. O waes me, co*ilWillie, for 1 hae a muckle wame, and 1 feardits owre true. O plague on you Janet,(for ye're the father o't, an* I am sure todie in the bearing o*t. Witty Eppie, wassent for, as she was a houdie, an‘shefanda* Willie's wame, to be sure about it. In¬deed, co‘ Eppie, ye're the first man ere Isaw wi'bairn before, and how ye'll bear ittroth I dinna ken, but I would drink s^ltserr water, and drown it in my guts-i-for ifmen get ance the gate o' bearing Weans |14themselves, they’ll need nae mair wives.So Willie drank sea water till his guts waslike to rive, and out he got to ease himselfamong the kail ; and with the terriblenoise of his farting up starts a inaukin be¬hind him, who thought it was shot; Willieseeing her jump o’er the dyke, thought itwas a child brought forth, and cried out,Come Back my Dear, and be christened,,and dinna rin to the hills to be a Began,So Wiiiie grew better every day thereaf¬ter, being brought to bed in the kail-yard 5but his daughter was brought to bed some:months after, which was the cause of thadoctor’s mistake.Now Wise Willie b<»4 a dsughttrr calledBoding coughing Jenny, because sh< spak:thick sax words at three times, half senseand half nonsense, as her own records vs illbear witness. She being with child, anddelivered of a bonny lassie j and all ttiewives in the town cried out, Be go lad¬die, it’s just like its ain father, lang San-Tason, (or Thomson,) we ken by his lang;,nose; for Sandy had a great mucke redlnose, like a labster’s tae, bowed at thupointlike a hawk’s neb, and Sandy himself saidl15i ;hat it was surely Iris, or someotherbody’s::!but he had uS’d a’ his birr at the getting)’t to try is abilities, being the first time,i’er he was at sic a business before ; andwhen he had done a* that man could do athe said it was nonsense ; and shame fa*itdm, but he would rather low his boatround his Bass an’ back again, or he’d dothe like again ; for Wise Willie gade wudetat the bairn, and said it had mair ill naturethan the auldest wife about the town ; forit pissed the bed, shit the bed, and skirl’di like a wild cat, and kept him frae hisinight’s rest; and the auld hags about theiltown ca’d him Sandy the bairn’s daddy ;;:,and a’ the young gillie-gaukies o’ lassiesiheld out their fb-cr^ cried, Ti hi hiJpf.’ldy, tne Kirk will kittle your hips for(Ithat: And after a’ the blear-eyed bell-manilcauie bladering about the buttock meal,|summoned him and her before the halyband ; a court that was held in the Kirk onSaturday morning; and all the herd lad¬dies round about cried, Ay< ay, Sandy,pay the bull siller, or we’ll cut the cow’srail awa. So poor Sandy suffered sadly inthe flesh, besides the penalty and kirk pen¬ance./learned fouk call the Session. Jenny was:first da!led upon, and in she ^oes where?a‘ the haiy band was convened, elders and17(younger deacons, and dog payers, keepinglithe' door, the cankerdest carles that could«be gotten between Dysart & Duby side—white heads and bald heads sitting wantin*nbonnets, wi‘ their white headed staffs, anddiodden grey jockey coats about them.Mess John says, come away Janet,we‘re waiting on you here.Min—Now Janet, where was this childjgotten ? you must tell us plainly.Jan.—Adeed Sir, it was gotten at theblack stanes, at the cheek of the crabbtholes.Mess John stares at her, not knowingthe place, but some of the elders did.Ihen, sail he, O Janntt but the devilJ was busy with you at that time.| Jan—A by my fegs sir, tha^s a greatlie ye’re .filing now, tor tne deij was naethere that 1 saw, norony body else, to bid/isas do ae thing or anither: we lo^ed itherunco weel for a long time before that, ansyne we tell*d ither, and agreed to marryither, like honest fouk; then might na welearn to do the thing married fouk do,without the deil helping us.Whisht, whisht, cried thev. ye shouldbe scourged, sause loon quien it thus is,ye’re speaking nonsense.Jan—De deil’s i* the carles, for you andyour ministers are liars when say it is de »deil it was helping Sandy and me to get ®de bairn.19v jome, come, said they, pay clown theJs-dues, and come back to the stool thein ; the price is four pound and a gioathe bell man.Ian-—The auld thief speed the dark o’fcfar less might sair you and your bell-h baitn, O but this be a warld indeed,en poor honest fouk maun pay for mak«J use o* their a— *. \ e misca the poor1 a hint his back, an* gies him the wytea de ill in de kintry, bastard bairns and;ry thick; and if it be sae as ye sae yeiy thank the deil, for that four poundd a groat 1 gien you ; that garsnr pat play brown, and gets you jockey-ijats and purl handed sarks, an white-jaded staves, when my father’s pot wal-ijs up nought but bear and blue water.The woman ’8 mad, said they, for thisoney is all given to the poor of thetiishlJan—The poor of the parish ! fint aate ye gie to them but we pickles o*ease meal, didna I see their pocks; an,’he minister’s wife gies naething ava tonco beggars, but bids them gae to their/20ain parishes ; and yet ye'il tak the pufrae us for naething but playing the l< !ta wee or we be married, and syne cuthem up to be looked on and laughed vby every body: a deil speed you and y^ ’justice, sir. Hute, tute, ye’re a’ coming I:,me like a wheen colly dogs, hunting aj?a poor rp.ggit chapman frae the door. 1out she goes cursing and greeting. San j«is called upon, and in he goes.Min—Now Saunders, you must tell 'how this child was gottenlSan—A now Mess John, sir, ye h?bairns o' your ain, how did you get them ir.But yours are a‘ laddies, and mine is but nlassie ; if you tell me how you got youladdies, I'll tell you how I got my lassh iand^ then we‘11 be baith like good o' th ibusiness.The minister looks at him, and saysiiiHute, tute, Saunders, lay down four pum snand a groat, and come back the morn t« ithe stool, and give satisf iction to the con igregation ; you had more need to be seek-1ing repentance for that abominable sin otuncleanness than speaking so to me.San...Well, here*s yoar siller sir, I haeJtv.n but poor penny worths for t, an* yetJell me to repent for‘t; what the auldpf needs I repent, when I‘m gaun totry the woman, an then I‘11 hae to do‘tjr again every day, or there‘11 be naece in the house; figs it nonsense tosiller, repent, and do‘t again too, a finelice inrleed, maister minister ! and that'sn way the like o‘ you live.Jow sir. says Wise Wihie, ye mannai them on the black creepy till they beTied ; they've suffered enough at aeI-L*weel, a-weel, said they, but they must(fry very soon.i true, says Sandy, ye'll be wantingr clink ; foul haet ye do for naethingif he next exploit was an action at lawJinst the goodman of Muiredge, a far-r who lived near by, that kept sheep &me. His sheep came down and broke|r yards, and ate up their kail; thet hares they thought belonged to the/22man, as they ran to his house when th i>were hunted. The swine came very oftin about their house, seeking fish guand ony thing they could get. So it hapened when one of the children was sitti:easing itself, that one of the swine tumbtit over, and bit a piece out of its backsidThe whole town rose in an uproar agair,poor grunkie, as they called her, aitakes her before Wise Willie. Wiltook an axe and cut two or three inch *off her long nose. Now, says Willie, I tr*I hae made thee something like anoth,1beast; thou had sic a lang mouth befcit wad a frighted a veiry deil to look at ybut now your fac’d like a little horsecow. The poor sow ran home roaric ”all blood and wanting the rose; whicaused Muiredge to warn them in befc ’my Lord. So the wives that had thi 'kail eaten appeared first in the Coucomplaining against Muiiedge. Indee ,my Lord, said they, Muiredge is nogood man, when he is sic an ill neighbouhe keeps black hares and white hares, litlwee brown backed hares wi’ white arsiand loose wagging horns; they creep pat our gush-boles an’ does the like; whwe cry, pussie, pussie, they nn hame23uiredge; but I’ll gar my colly had themlliy the foot, an* 1*11 had them by the horn,V pull the hair aff them, and send ’emtame wanting the skin, as he did Sowenanimie’s wee Sandy, for codm o’ histease, he took aff the poor laddie’s coat,od sae did he e’en. And Willie said, ifje were a sow my Lord, an me sittingiriting, and you to bite my arse, sudna I■:lae a mend o’ you for that ? odd, my Lord,ije wadna hae a bit out o* your arse foriwinty marks: Ye maun e’en gar Muir-fdge gie ten marks to buy a plaster toteal the poor bit wean’s arse again.Well said, Willie, says my Lord; buttlvho put 0:1 the sow’s nose again.A fegs, my Lord, said Willie, she’s ho-loster like wantin’t an’ she’ll bite nae mairirses wi’t: An ye had hane a nose myjord as lang as the sow ye’d been obligedlo ony body it wad cut a piece aft./24A gentleman coming past near theirI town asked one of their wives where theirJ college stood ? said she, gie me a shillingii and I‘ll let you see baith sides o‘t. He|! j gives her the shilling, thinking to see some-! thing curious Now, says she, there‘s theone side of your shilling, and there*s thejj . other j so it is mine now.IJ There was a custom in Bucky-harbour,when they jot a hearty drink, that theywent down to dance among the boats,two or three of the oldest went into aiboat to see the residence, and when theyadmitted a burgher, there was also adance. One day they admitted glyedRob, who was a warlock, and madethem all stop their dancing, for whichhe was carried before Wise Wiilie toanswer for that, for which, he was ba¬nished to the isle of May, to carry coalsto the Light House.I1 ' "FINIS.■ik.