IIiSTORYOKPIII NC E LUPINcertain king had three sons, all hand¬le, brave, and fine young gentlemen;t being suspicious that they had formed asign to deprive him of his crown, henight of a method to divert them fromdr intended purpose. Having called theme day into his closet, he spoke to them aslows :—11 My sons, I am now come to aeat age, and cannot apply myself to publicairs with so much care as formerly; there-e I intend to resign my crown to one ofu : but, as it is but right to require some)of of your abilities, in order to determineuch is the most worthy of so valuable asent, I propose and promise, that he whoill bring me the most beautiful little dogill immediately take possession of myone.”ANDTHE WHITE CAT* 14The three princes readily agreed to .proposal, each concluding himself nlikely to succeed in fulfilling this extraon;ary request. After taking leave of the kthey set out, with orders to return thattwelvemonth with dogs. Each took aferent road, without any attendants;we shall leave the two eldest at present,confine our story to the youngest.This accomplished prince, as he was irdesirous to show his duty to his father tito become a king, was more fortunate inundertaking than either of the others. (night, having travelled till it was very liand being overtaken by a storm in a laiforest, he discovered a light at a distarand, pursuing his journey with all speedjarrived at a most stately castle, the gatewhich were of massy gold, and the wall:fine china, whereon were painted the his!ies of all the fairies that ever appearedearth. At the door hung a chain of cmonds, with a deer’s foot at the end;pulling which, the prince heard a bell ofpleasing a sound, that he concluded it to;made'of gold or silver. Immediatelydoor opened, and twelve hands, each hold;a flambeau, gently conducted him into a Iof motherof-pearl, and from thence throiia vast variety of chambers, all richly coved with paintings and jewels. The beaj5*f these ornaments was greatly heightened>y a number of lights, that hung from the:eiling in glass sconces of exquisite work-nanship.After having passed through sixty apart-nents, a fine easy chair moved towards himif its own accord ; the fire lighted itself, andhe hands pulled off his clothes, which hadteen drenched in the storm, and dressed himn others so extraordinarily fine and rich,lat it dazzled his sight to behold himself.Vhile the prince was in the utmost aston-shment at this uncommon adventure, he sawmultitude of cats enter the room, and seatlemselves on the bench. One held amsic-book, and some played on instruments,bile others beat time. In the midst oflis concert, a small figure came forward inmourning veil, led by two cats in blackoaks, and followed by a long train of cats,ime with rats, and others with mice, inicir mouths. The young prince was so sur¬mised, that he had not power to move; whenle little figure, lifting up its veil, discoveredie prettiest white cat that ever was seen.Prince,” said she, “be not afraid, butive me your company with cheerfulness.. shall be the ambition of me and all myewing attendants to give you pleasure.”On signal given, supper was brought• Tmf tv. ri T^VM 1 > /'»<'* O 4- fi V»of si nrkl i *-k Sks-1 /■» r» 4-» »-» sv*6till the White Cat, guessing the reason, asured him that there were no rats nor miiin any thing that was set before him. Athe prince was admiring this beautiful ea'he observed a small picture hanging upoher foot. He asked her to show it himand how great was his surprise to seecharming young man very much resemblirthimself! yet, observing the White Cat :sigh, he was afraid at that time to satisihis curiosity concerning it, and so endeaicured to divert her by entertaining conveisation, in which he found her to be extreme!sensible, and acquainted with every thinjthat passed in the world. He slept evernight in an apartment hung with tapes!rmade of the wings of butterflies, on a be|of the most delicious flowers, and every da!was spent in the most delightful amusementIn this manner almost a year slipped awa;insensibly; and the prince entirely forgehis native home and the little dog he was tcarry to his father. But the White Caknew when he was to return ; and one dayas they were walking together in a grov;near the palace, “Do you remember, prince,said she, “the promise you made youfather? Your brothers have already pmcured some curious little dogs, and there remain but three days for you to find on<more beautiful, or lose a kingdom.” Thesi’s awoke the prince from his dream ofsure. u Alas !” cried he, u what haveen doing? ?»[y honour is lost for ever.”Do not afflict yourself,” said the White; u I will find a horse that will carryhome in less than twelve hours. Andir the little dog, take this acorn, in whiche is one: put it to your ear, and youhear it bark.” The prince did so, and,sported with pleasure, thanked her asand times, llidding her farewell, hented the wooden horse, and arrived atfather’s palace just as his brothers enter-lie courtyard. He ran to embrace them,all three went together to the king.—two eldest presented their dogs, vdiieh! so equally beautiful, that it was impos-i to know in whose favour to determine,the youngest soon put an end to thele; for, pulling the acorn out of his.et and opening it, they saw a little dogg on cotton, so small that it might gcugh a ring; it was of a mixture ofirs, and its ears reached the ground,king was convinced that nothing couldlet with so beautiful; but, being unwil-1 yet to part with his crown, he told hisilren, that he must make a further trialjieir love and diligence before he perfbrm-jiis promise; they must take anotheryear to find out a web of cloth flue enjto go through the eye of a small needljThis request, though unjust, they thoit best to comply with: and our pimounted his wooden horse, and returnedspeed to his White Cat, on which aloildepended for assistance. He found heion a quilt of white satin. As soon ajsaw him, she expressed the utmost .while the prince caressed her in thetender manner, and told her the scof his journey. The White Cat redoiher efforts to render the prince more haif possible, than he had been before,wished for nothing but the hands vbrought it to him ; and the second year iaway so fast, that the prince would ahave forgot his orders, had not the VCat reminded him thereof; il But iyourself perfectly easy concerning the Vsaid she, <£ for 1 have one wonderfullyTake this walnut; be sure to crack ;your father’s presence, and you will findsuch a web as you want.”The prince thanked her in the :grateful manner; and was presently caby the wooden horse to his father’s pawhere his brothers had g'ot beforeThey pulled out their webs, which were Iceeding fine, and would go through thefof a large needle, but could not be macjl9bs 'hrough the eye of a small one. Theig was going to avail himself of thisstext, when the youngest prince unex-:tedly entered, and produced a walnut,ich he cracked. Finding only a kernelwax, the king and all present ridiculeda for thinking to find a web of cloth in at. However, he broke the kernel, andy in it a corn of wheat, and in that afin of millet-seed: he then opened thellet-seed, and, to the utter astonishmentI confusion of all the beholders, drew outweb of cloth four hundred yards long.ie needle was brought, and the web wasU through the eye of it five or six timesh the greatest ease.The king fetched a deep sigh, and turn-towards his sons, “ My children,” saidu I am still desirous of putting you tosew trial: go for another year; and het brings me the most beautiful damsel,II marry her and be crowned king; andwear most solemnly, that I will requireother proof of your filial affection andfcretion.” Our sweet prince heard thisannic command without a murmur; and,amounting his courser, flew to his dearlite Cat; which, knowing the momenthis return, was prepared to receive him ingolden gallery. “ Prince,” said she,lie king 1 find, has refused you the crown;10however, I hope you will take care to des4it, and I will provide you with a beautdamsel who will gain the prize.”The prince grew more and more toneher; and in her abode enjoyed every mniiicent entertainment that fancy ccinvent.—When this last year was nearpired, the White Cat thus addressed hju If you are sensible of the favours I laconferred upon you, now is the time to mjme amends. Do not hesitate, but cutjmy head and tail, and throw them into ilire.” Tears started from the prince’s aat this request, and lie was going sevjtimes to refuse; but the White Cat insi|upon it so earnestly, that at last, witftrembling hand, he chopped oft' her hiand tail, and threw them accordingto or|into the fire. In an instant the body of!White Cat was changed into themostbitiful lad)' that ever was seen, and im tdiately a great number of gentlemen aladies, holding their cats’ skins over tshoulders, came and fell prostrate at her ‘crying, u Long live our gracious qudjHowT great is our joy to see her once iin her natural shape!” The prince |glad beyond description to behold so ching a creature, but could not help expiinc an earnest desire to know the can;this surnrisin ' transformation.I. O“ Rest|'our curiosity,” says the lovely queen,£ till we arive at your father’s court, wheream now ready to accompany you, and,'here I will relate my unheard-of mis-brtunes. Come, see, the carriage waits.’?o saying, she gave her hand to the prince,vho led her into a chariot, the inside of whichwas fine velvet, set with brilliants, the out-ide gold; and the horses’ harness was madef emeralds.{ Away they flew, and wTere presently athe gates of the king’s palace, where thewo eldest princes were already arrived withheir two princesses, in fine calashes of blue,mbossed with gold. The courtiers crowdedo present these three illustrious couples tohe king. The two eldest princes with theiradies advanced first, and were received verygraciously by the monarch, who declaredhey had brought him two such beauties,hat he knew not to which he should givelie preference; but the moment the young-st approached with his queen, both full of^race and dignity, the king cried out incstacy, u This is the incomparable beauty,rhose worth and excellence claims and de-erves my crown !”—“ I came not to rob'Ou of your crown,” answered the discreetjueen; “I was born heiress to six kingdoms,jive me leave to present one of them to you,aid one to each of your sous; for which Iask no other return than this amiable pri;in marriage.”The king and all the court were strnwith joy at this declaration; and the inf.ials were celebrated the same day with grmagnificence. Never were a pair m'happy; and the young prince, to the ]moment of his life, blessed the accident tlled him to the abode of the sweet WfCat.13THE YELLOW DWARF.—«e®lOI©s«=-—There was once a queen, who, though shehad born many children, had but one daugh-I ter left alive, of whom she was fond to anj excess, humouring and indulging her in allher ways and wishes. This princess wasI exceedingly beautiful, so that she was called4 All-Fair, and had twenty kings courting! her at one time. Her mother, being advan-t ced in years, would fain have had her mar-. ried and settled before she died, but no1 entreaties could prevail; whereupon she de¬termined to go to the Desert Fairy to ask■ advice concerning her stuborn daughter.Now, this fairy being guarded by twofierce lions, the queen made a cake of millet,sugarcandy, and crocodiles’ eggs, in order:to appease their fury and pass by them; andhaving thus provided herself, she set out.After traveling some time, she found her¬self weary, and, lying down under a tree,well asleep. When she awoke, she heard thelions which guarded the fairy roaring, upon'which, looking for her cake, oho found itwas gone. This threw her mfn the utmost1 agony, not knowing how t< rave herself'14from being devoured by them; when,hearing somebody cry, “ Hem ! hem !’‘she lifted up her eyes, and beheld a little!yellow man on a tree, half a yard high,rlpicking and eating oranges.“ Ah ! queen,” said the yellow’ Dwarf|(for so he was called on account of hi sicomplexion, and the orange-tree he livecain) “how will you escape the lions*There is but one way: I know whatibusiness brought you here! promise meiyour daughter in marriage, and I will saveyou,” The queen thought she could notbut look upon so frightful a figure wdthhorror, yet was forced to consent ; whereupon she instantly found herself in herown palace, and all that had passed seemedonly as a dream ; nevertheless, she was sothroughly persuaded of the realty of it^that she became melancholy.Theyoung princess being unable to learn ithe cause of her dejection, resolved to gcand inquire of the Desert Fairy; and, ac¬cordingly, having prepared a cake for thelions, she also set off for her abode. Itihappened that All-Fair took exactly theisame rout her mother had done before her;and coming to the fatal tree, which w’asloaded with oranges, she had a mind to picklsome ! therefore, setting down her basketw'herein she carried the cake,she plentifully!15illf-indulged herself. The lions now began toroar, when All-Fair, looking for her cake,was thrown into the utmost trouble on find¬ing it gone. As she was lamenting herdeplorable situation, the Yellow Dwarf pre¬sented himself to her with these words:—u Lovely princess, dry up your tears, andhear what I am going to say: You neednot proceed to the Desert Fairy to know thereason of your mother’s indisposition, she isungenerous enough to repent of havingpromised you, her adorable daughter, to mein marriage.”—“How!” interrupted theprincess; “ my mother promised me to youin marriage ! you ! such a fright as you !”—“ Nay, none of your scoffs,” returned theYellow Dwarf, “ I wish you not to stir upiny anger: if you will promise to marry me,L will be the tenderest and most loving hus¬band in the world—if not, save yourselifrom the lions if you can.” In short, theprincess was forced to give her word thatshe would have him, but with such agonyof mind, that she fell into a swoom; andwhen she recovered, she found herself inher own bed, finely adorned with ribbons,and a ring of a single red hair so fastenedround her finger that it could not be got off.This adventure had the same effect upon •All-Fair as the former had upon her mother.She grew melancholy, which was remarkedand wondered at by the whole court. The jbest way to divert her, they thought, wouldhe to urge her to marry; which the prin¬cess, who was nou become less obstinate onthat point than formerly, consented to; and, :thinking that such a pigmy as the Yellow ;Dwarf would not dare to contend with sogallent a person as the King of the Golden ,Mines, she fixed upon this king for herhusband, who was exceedingly rich andpowerful, and loved her to distraction. The ;most superb preparations were made forthe nuptials, and the happy day was fixed ;when, as they were proceeding to the cere¬mony, they saw moving towards them a ;box, whereon sat an old woman remarkable ■for her ugliness.—“ Hold queen and prin¬cess,” cried she, knitting her brows, u re¬member the promises you both made to my ,friend the Yellow Dwarf. I am the Desert :Fairy, and if All-Fair docs not marry him,1 swear by my coif, I will burn my crutch.”The queen and princess wrere struck motion¬less by this unexpected greeting of theFairy; but the Prince of the Golden Mines :was exceedingly wroth; and, holding hissword to her throat, “ Fly wretch !” saidhe, or thy malice shall cost thee thy life.”No sooner had he uttered these words, than ithe top of the box flying off, out came the ;Yellow Dwarf, mounted upon a large■n.N.k17Spanish cat, who placing himself betweenthe king and the fairy, uttered these words:—“ Rash youth, thy rage should be levelledat me, not at the Desert Fairy; 1 am thyrival, and claim her by promise, and a singlehair round her finger.”This so enraged the king, that he criedout, contemptible creature! wert thou worthyof notice, I would sacrifice thee for thy pre¬sumption.” Whereupon the Yellow Dwarlclapping spurs to his cat, and drawing alarge cutlass, defied the king to combat; andso they went into the court-yard. The sunthen immediately turned red as blood, andit became dark: thunder and lightningfollowed, by the flashes whereof were per¬ceived to giants vomiting fire on each sideof the Yellow Dwarf.The king behaved with such undauntedcourage as to give the Dwarf great per¬plexity; hut was dismayed, when he sawthe Desert Fairy, mounted on a wingedgriffin, vdth her head covered with snakes,strike the princess so heard with a lance,that she fell into the queen’s arms all overwith blood. He left the combat to go toher x'elief; hut the dwarf was to quick forhim, and, flying on his Spanish cat to thebalcony where she was, he took her fromher mother’s arms, leaped with her upon18the top of the palace, and immediately dis¬appeared.As the king1 stood confused and astonishedat this strange adventure, he suddenly found :a mist before his eyes, and himself lifted upin the air by some extraordinary power: forthe Desert Fairy had fallen in love with jhim. To secure him for herself, therefore,she carried him to a frightful cavern, hopinghe would there forget All-Fair, and triedmany artifices to complete her designs. Butfinding this scheme ineffectual, she resolvedto carry him to a place altogether as pleasantas the other was terrible; and accordinglyset him by herself in a chariot drawn byswans. In passing through the air, he hadthe unspeakable surprise to see his adoredprincess in a castle of polished steel, leaningher head on one hand, and wiping away thetears with the other. She happened to lookup, and had the mortification to see the kingsitting by the fairy , who then, by her art,made herself appear extremely beautiful.Had not the king been sensible of the fairy’spower, he would certainly then have tried tofree himself from her. At last they cameto a stately palace, fenced on one side bywalls of emeralds, and on the other by aboisterous sea. -The king, by pretending to be in lovewith the faifv, obtained liberty to walk by19.ilmself on the shore; and, as he was oneday invoking- the powers of the sea., he hearda voice, and presently after was surprisedwith the appearance of a Mermaid, which,coming up with a pleasant smile, spokethese words:—uO King of the GoldenMines, I well know all that has passed inregard to you and the fair princess. Don’tsuspect this to be a contrivance of the fairy’sto try you, for I am an inveterate enemyboth to her and the \ ellow dwarf; therefore,if you will have confidence in me, I willlend you my assistance to procure the releasenot only of'yourself, but of A11-Fair also.”The overjoyed king promised to do whateverthe Mermaid hade him ; whereupon, settinghim upon her tail, they sailed away on arolling sea.When they had sailed some time, “Now,”said the Mermaid to the kin"-, “we drewnear the place where your princess is keptby the Yellow Dwarf. You will have manyenemies to fight before you can come to her;take, therefore, this sword, with which youmay overcome every thing, provided younever let it go out of your hand.” Theking returned her all the thanks that themost grateful heart could suggest; and theMermaid landed and took leave of him,promising him farther assistance when ne-nmsaiT.The king boldly advanced, and meetingwith two terrible sphinxes, laid them deaathis feetwith hissword. Next heattacMed six dragons that opposed him, and des:patched them also. Then he met with foiland twenty nymphs, with garlandsof flow;ers, at sight of whom he stopped, being loatlto destroy so much beauty ; when he heara voice say, “ Strike ! strike ! or you willose your princess for ever !” upon whiclhe threw himself in the midst of them, antsoon dispersed them. He now came itview of All-Fair, anti, hastening to herexclaimed, “ O my princess, behold you!faithful lover!” But she, drawing back]replied, “Faithful lover! Did I not setyou passing through theairwithabeautifu;nymph? Were you faithful then?” “Yes,’replied the king, “ I was. That was thedetested Desert Fairy, who was carrvinametoa placewhere I musthavelanguishecout all my days, had it not been for a kintMermaid, by whose assistance it is that 1am now come to release you.” So sayingjhe cast himself at her feet; but, catchinghold of her gown, unfortunately let go themagic sword: which the Yellow Dwarf nosooner discovered, than, leaping from be-hindashrub where he had been concealed,he ran and seized it. By two cabalistcalWords he tllPn mriim-ext *'*'*“' 'r*t'*21laid the king in irons. u Now,” said thedwarf, u my rival’s fate is in my ownhands; however, if he will consent to mymarriage, he shall have his life and liberty.”u No,” said the king, UI scorn thy favouron such terms;” which so provoked thedwarf, that he instantly stabbed him to theheart. The disconsolate princess, aggravatedto the last degree at such barbarity,, thusvented her grief<£ Thou hideous creature,since entreaties could not avail thee, perhapsthou now reliest upon force; but thou shaitbe disappointed, and thy brutal soul shallknow perpetual mortification from the mo¬ment I tell the 1 die for thee love I have forthe King of the Golden Mines!” And sosaying, she sunk down upon his body, andexpired without a sigh.Thus ended the fate of these two faithfullovers, which the Mermaid very much re¬gretted; but, all her power lying in thesword, she could only change them into twopalmtrees; which, preserving a constantmutual aflection for each other, caress andunite their branches together.22rnE three wishes.There was once a man, not very rich, whohad a very pretty woman to his wife. Onewinter’s evening1, as they sat by the lire,they talked of the, happiness of their neig-h-bours, who were richer than they. Said thewife, u If it were in my power to have what:I wish, I should soon be happier than all ofthem.” 11 So shoidd I too,” said the hus¬band; “I wish we had fairies now, andthat one of them was kind enough to grant,me what I should ask.” At that instant,they saw a very beautiful lady in their room,who said to them, u I am a fairy; and Ipromise to grant to you the three first thingsyou shall wish; but take care—after havingwished for three things, I will not grant onewish further.” The fairy disappeared; and.the man and his wife were much perplexed. 1u For my own part, said the wife, “if itwere left to my choice I know very wellwhat I should wish for: I do not wish yet,but I think nothing is so good as to be:handsome, rich, and to be of great quality. ”But the husband answered, “ With all thesethings one may be sick and fretful, and one amay die young: it would be much wiser to jwish for health, cheerfulness, and long life.” j1“ But to what purpose is long life with po« |rerly ?” says the wife : u it would only pro-ong- your misery. In truth, the fairyshould have promised us a dozen of gifts,['or there are at least a dozen things which lwant.” u That may be true,” said thehusband; “but let us take time; let usconsider till morning the three things whichare most necessary for us, and then wish.”“I’ll think all night,” said the wife;“meanwhile let us warm ourselves, for it isvery cold.” At the same time the wife tookthe tongs to mend the fire; and seeing therewere a great many coals thoroughly lighted,she said without thinking on it, “ Here’s anice fire; I wish we had a yard of blackpudding for our supper; we could dress iteasily.” She had hardly said these words,when down came tumbling through thechimney a yard of black pudding. “ Plagueon your greedy guts with your black pud¬ding!” said the husband : “here’s a finewish indeed ! Now we have only two left;ifor my part I am so vexed, that I wish theblack pudding fast to the tip of your nose.”'The man soon perceived he was sillier thanibis wife; lor, at this second wish, up startsithe black pudding, and sticks so fast to the|tip of the poor wife’s nose, there was nomeans to take it of. “ Wretch that I am !”tcried she; “you are a wicked man for(wishing the pudding fast to my nose.” “ My24dear,’’answered the husband, a I vow I didnot think of it; but what shall we do? Iam about wishing for vast riches, and pro-1pose to make a golden case to hide the pud¬ding.” “Not at all,” answered the wife;“fori should kill myself, were I to livwith this pudding dangling at my nose : bepersuaded, we have still one wish to make;leave it to me, or I shall instantly throwmyself out of the window.” With this sheran and opened the window; but the husband,who loved his wife, called out, “ Hold, my ;dear wife ! I give you leave to wish for what,you will.” “Well,” said the wife, “mywish is that this pudding may drop off.” Atthat instant the pudding dropped off; and.the wife, who did not want wit, said to her;husband; “The fairy has imposed upon ius; she was in the right; possibly we should ,have been more unhappy with riches than weare at present. Believe me, friend, let uswish for nothing, and take things as it shall .please God to send them : in the mean time,let us sup upon our pudding, since that’s all ;that remains to us of our wishes.” The :husband thought his wife judged right;they supped merrily, and never gave them¬selves further trouble about the things which ;they had designed to wish for.FINIS.