' OF SCOTLAK■^^nbubcNEW AND IMPROVED SERIES.No. 1.THEANECDOTE BOOK:A CHOICE COLLECTION OFANECDOTES, JESTS, WITTY SAYINGS,BON MOTS, &c., &c.,SELECTED FROM THE BEST SOURCES.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1850.Price One Penny.N53JrIOSkTHEANECDOTE BOOK. O0C= SECRETS.‘ My dear Murphy,’ said an Irishman to his friend, ‘whydid you betray the secret that I told you ?’ 1 Is it be¬traying you call it ? Sure, when I found I wasn’t ableto keep it myself, didn’t 1 do well to tell it to somebodythat could ? ’DUE PROPORTIONS.4 Jock,’ said a farmer’s wife to the herd eallant—4 Jock,come in to your narritch—the flies are drowning them¬selves in the milk.’ ‘ Nae fears,’ replied Jock, movingvery deliberately towards the scene of action—‘ Nae fears;they’ll wade through’!.’ 4 Od, you little rascal, do yousay you dinna get eneugh o’ milk ?’ 4 Ou ay, plenty forthe parritch.’GIPSY WIT.Two young ladies were accosted by a gipsy woman,who told them that, for a shilling each, she would showthem their husband’s faces in a pail of water ; whichbeing brought, they exclaimed, 4 Why, we only see ourown faces !’ 4 Well,’ said the old woman, 4 those will beyour husband’s faces when you are married.’SECURITY AGAINST DROWNING.A lady at sea, full of apprehension in a gale of wind,cried out among petty exclamations, 4 We shall go to thebottom—mercy on us, how my head swims.’ 4 Zounds,madam, never fear,’ said one of the sailors, 4 you cannever go to the bottom while your head swims ! ’4GEORGE COLMAN THE YOUNGER.A young gentleman being pressed very hard in com¬pany to sing, even after he had solemnly assured themthat he could not, observed testily that they were want¬ing to make a butt of him. ‘ No, my good sir,’ said Mr.Colman, who was present, ‘ we only want to get a staveout of you.’MAKING SURE.Captain N , who lately arrived at Boston, whengoing up to the wharf, ordered an Irishman to throwover the buoy, and going below a few minutes, he calledto the Irishman, and asked him if he had thrown thebuoy. ‘ No,’ said he, 11 could not catch the boy, but Ithrew over the old cook.'GRACEFUL COMPLIMENT PROM A CHILD.Washington was visiting a lady in his neighbourhood,and on his leaving the house a little girl was directed toopen the door. In passing the child, he said, ‘ I amsorry, my dear, to give you so much trouble.’ 11 wish,sir,’ she replied, ‘it was to let you in’CLUMSY COMFORT.An Irishman, placed at the bar, complained bitterlythat he should be placed in such an awkward position,so far from friends and home. The Judge felt kindlytoward him, and said—‘ Be calm, young man ; you mayrest assured that, although among strangers, full justicewill be done you.' ‘Be me soul, yer honour,’ groanedBat, ‘ and it’s the fear of that same’that throubles me !’RESULT OF FLATTERY.An unsuccessful lover was asked by what means helost his fair. ‘ Alas !’ cried he, ‘ I flattered her until shegot too proud to speak to me.’BEFORE AND AFTER MARRIAGE.A lady who was very modest and submissive beforemarriage, was observed by a friend to use her tonguepretty freely after. 1 There was a time,’ said her friend,‘when I almost imagined she had none.’ ‘Yes,’ saidthe husband with a sigh, ‘ but it's very long since.’5KNOWLEDGE IS POWER.While a worthy individual, of the march of intellectschool, was ‘laying down the law’ the other day to aknot of acquaintances on one of the streets of Cupar, hecaught the eye of a carter hard by, who had been vainlyendeavouring to raise a sack of potatoes upon his cart,and who, on the instant, thus appealed to the man ofknowledge—1 Come awa’, Mr. ; knowledge is power,ye ken—gie us a lift on wf this poke o’ taties /’A HARD WORLD.A man who came to market to dispose of his cattle,entered into conversation with another on the subject of‘ hard times.’ ‘ Yes,’ said the cattle dealer with an airof peevishness, ‘ times are hard, and this is a hard world—and, in my opinion, very few will get out of it alive.’MAKING THE MOST OF IT.Horne Tooke was the son of a poulterer, which healluded to when called upon by the proud striplings ofEton to describe himself. ‘ 1 am,’ said young Horne,‘ the son of an eminent Turkey merchant.’THE VALUE OF MARRIED MEN.‘ A little more animation, my dear,’ whispered LadyB to the gentle Susan, who was walking languidlythrough a quadrille. ‘ Do leave me to manage my ownbusiness, mamma,’ replied the provident nymph; ‘ Ishall not dance my ringlets out of curl for a married man.’‘ Of course not, my love ; I was not aware who yourpartner was.’QUITE GROUNDLESS.‘ 1 am happy, Ned, to hear the report that you havesucceeded to a large landed property.’ ‘ And I amsorry, Tom, to tell you that it is groundless.’A NOUN OF DIFFICULT DECLENSION.It is a remarkable fact, that however well young ladiesmay be versed in grammar, very few of them are able todecline matrimony.AN ACID DROP.‘ I don’t know where that boy got his bad temper—not from me, I’m sure.’ 1 No, my dear, for I don’t per¬ceive you have lost any.’GWELL DONE.Lord Chesterfield has beautifully and truly remarked,■—1 Whatever is worth doing at all, is worth doing well.’This axiom applies admirably to the treatment of a friend.A THRIFTLESS LADDIE.On the application of the Prince Regent to Parliamentfor a grant to pay off his debts, being talked of one even¬ing in a company, an old Scotch lady, whose ideas wereall of a homely character, exclaimed, ‘ Debt! how canhe be in debt—doesna he get his meat in his fayther's ?’A CHANCE FOR BACHELORS.A man with eleven daughters was complaining to afriend that he found it hard to live. ‘ You must husbandyour time,’ said the other, ‘ and then you will do wellenough.’ ‘ 1 could do much better,’ was the reply, ‘ if 1could husband my daughters.’EQUITABLE ADJUSTMENT.‘ Patrick,’ said an employer one morning to one of hisworkmen, 1 you came too late this morning ; the othermen were at work an hour before you.’ ‘ Sure, and I’llbe even with them to-night.’ ‘ flow, Patrick V ‘ I’llquit an hour before them, sure.’take care of tour emphases.An elderly gentleman being ill, one of his friends senta messenger with the usual inquiry, which, however, hehad not pronounced with due emphasis—‘ I’ll thank youto take my compliments, and ask haw OLD Mr. W. is.’The messenger departed on his errand, and speedily re¬turned, saying, ‘ He’s just 68, sir !’a broad hint.The great man of a village being at dinner, allowedone of his tenants to stand while he conversed with him.‘ What news, Tny friend ?’ said the squire. ‘ None thatI know of,’ replied the farmer, 1 except that a sow ofmine has had a litter of thirteen pigs, and she has onlytwelve teats.’ ‘ What will the thirteenth do ?’ asked thelandlord. ‘ Do as I do,’ returned Hodge ; ‘ it will standand look on while the others eat.’7DOING BOSINESS.The papa of a young man, who devotes more attentionto gaming, horse-racing, &c„ than to business, was metby a friend, who asked him what his son Jack was doingnow. 1 Doing, sir V said the papa—1 doing his father, asusual.’KEEP A DOG AND BARK !A simple servant boy one evening went up to the draw¬ing-room, on the bell being rung. When he returned tothe kitchen, he laughed immoderately. Some of the ser¬vants asking the cause of his mirth, he cried, 1 What doyou think ? there were sixteen of them who could notsnuff the caudles, and were obliged to send for me todo it.’THE SAME HERE.A farmer in the neighbourhood of Doncaster waslately met by his landlord, who accosted him thus:—1 John, I intend to raise your rent;’ to which John re¬plied, 1 Sir, I’m very mucli obliged to you, for I cannotraise it myself.’NO TIME TO ROSE.A gentleman was one day composing music for a ladyto whom he paid his addresses. 1 Pray, Miss D.,’ said he,1 what time do you prefer ?’ ‘ Oh !’ she replied, care¬lessly, 1 any time will do. but the quicker the better.’ Thecompany smiled at the rejoinder, and the gentleman tookher at her word.HOLDING A HORSE.1 Here, fellow, hold this horse.’ ‘ Does he kick ?’‘ Kick !—no ! Take hold of him.’ ‘ Does he bite ?’1 Bite !—no ! Take hold of the bridle, I say.’ ‘ Does ittake two to hold him ?’ ‘ No !’ 1 Then hold him your¬self.’THE BOOT ON THE WRONG LEG.An Irishman having legs of different sizes, ordered hisboots to be made accordingly. His directions wereobeyed ; but as he put the smallest boot on his largestleg, he exclaimed petulantly, 1 Confound the fellow ! Iordered him to make the one larger than the other, andinstead of that, he has made one smaller than the other.’8A BULL.An Irish gentleman going to the post-office, inquiredif there were any letters for him ? ‘ Your name, sir,’ saidthe clerk. ‘ There is a good one now,’ said the Hiber¬nian, 1 why, wont you see it on the back of the letter ?’BAD BETTER THAN NONE.A married woman was telling a staid lady, somewhaton the wrong side of fifty, of some domestic troubles,which she in great part attributed to the irregularities other husband. * Well (said the old maid), you havebrought these troubles on yourself. 1 told you not tomarry him. I was sure he would not make you a. goodhusband.’ ‘ He is not a good one, to be sure, madam(replied the woman), but he is a power better than none.'COBBETT AND THE GOOSE.When Cobbett kept a stationer's shop at Philadelphia,and was writing under the name of ‘ Peter Porcupine,’ ayoung sub went to buy some quills, and thinking to passa joke upon Peter, asked him if they were not Porcupine aquills ? Upon which Cobbett, taking up the redcoat’smoney, drily replied, making at the same time a veryprofound bow, 1 Oh, no, sir ! they are a goose's.'MOTHER WIT.An Irishman, while on his passage to this country insearch of harvest work, was observed to ivalh up anddown the deck at a brisk pace, occasionally giving a lookat the Captain whenever he came in sight, as if to attracthis observation. On being asked by the steward for hispassage-money, when nearing the port of destination,Pat replied,1 Arrah, honey, be aisey now, sure the masterwon’t do such a dirty trick as charge a poor shearer, whohas walked the whole iuay.'AN IMPUDENT IMP.An irregular apprentice frequently keeping late hours,his master at length took occasion to apply some weightyarguments to convince him of the ‘ error of his ways.’During the chastisement, he continually exclaimed,‘ How long will you serve the D—— ?’ The boy replied,whimpering, ‘ You know best, sir : I believe my inden¬ture will be out in three months !’0HOW TO AVOID QUARRELS.The late Mr. John Jones being asked by a friend ‘ howhe kept himself from being involved in quarrels ?’ replied,‘ by letting the angry person have all the quarrel tohimself.’don’t you wish you ma y get him ?The editor of the Florence Inquirer (American paper)gives the following notice to one of his friends—‘Thegentleman who took out of our library the number ofGraham’s Magazine, is respectfully invited to call againin about two weeks, and get the number for August’bashfulness.1 Sally,’ said an amorous lover, speaking the other dayto his intended, ‘give us a kiss, will you, Sally?’ ‘ .No, Ishan’t,’ said Sally ; ‘ kelp yourself.'ASKING A BLESSING.A minister went to dine at the house of one of hishearers, whom he was in the habit of visiting. Dinnerbeing placed on the table, the master of the house re¬quested the minister to ask a blessing. It was no soonerdone, than a prattling boy, about seven years old, askedthe following appropriatc question : ‘ Papa, what is thereason we always have a blessing asked when Mr.  dines with us, and never at any other time ? ’VERY FUNNY.‘ Father, do they light up railway carriages at nightwith gas ?’ ‘ No, my dear, with tram oil.’the sage and the simpleton.As the late Professor Hamilton was one day walkingnear Aberdeen, he met a well-known individual of weakintellect. ‘ Pray,’ said the Professor, ‘ how long can aperson live without brains?’ ‘I dinna ken,’ repliedJemmy, scratching his head, ‘ how auld are ye yoursel?’short and sharp.‘ You had better ask for manners than money,’ said afinely-dressed gentleman to a beggar who asked for alms.‘ I asked for what I thought you had the most of,’ wasthe cutting reply.10SHEHIDAN.‘How is it,’ said a gentleman to the late RichardBrinsley Sheridan, 1 that your name has not an O at¬tached to it; your family is Irish, and no doubt illustri¬ous?’ 1 No family has a better right to an 0 than ourfamily,’ replied Sheridan, ‘ for we O (owe) everybody.’HOOKS AND EYES.George Colman being once asked if he knew TheodoreHook—1 Oh yes,’ was his reply, 1 Hook and I (eye) areold associates.’QUESTIONABLE.Schoolmaster :—1 Robert, compare the adjective cold.'Robert:—‘ Positive, cold: comparative, cough: superla¬tive, coffin !’A SLIGHT MISTAKE.Never did Paddy utter a better bull than did anhonest John, who, being asked by a friend, ‘ Has yoursister got a son or a daughter ?’ answered, ‘ Positively, Ido not yet know whether I am an uncle or an aunt.'TIT EOK TAT.A lady approaching the vale of years, but still retain¬ing personal attractions, exclaimed in triumph to hermaid, ‘ What would you give, child, to have my beauty V‘ Almost as much as you would to possess my youth,madam,’ replied the girl.can’t oblige tod at present.In one of the engagements during the war in Egypt, apoor Frenchman, falling into the power of a Highlandsergeant, screamed out the only English word he wasmaster of, ‘ Quarter ! quarter !’ ‘ She’ll no hae time toquarter ye the uoo,’ replied Donald, ‘ she’ll just cut ye intwa !’AN EAR FOR MUSIC.A little girl being asked if she had an ear for music,replied, ‘ Yes, I believe I have; for I heard the sound ofa fiddle when a man was playing on it at least two hun¬dred yards off.’11A HINT FOE THE ‘ BLUES.’Milton being asked whether he would instruct hisdaughters in the different languages, replied, ‘ .No ; onetongue is sufficient for a woman.’A COMMANDMENT.The evening before a battle, an officer asked MarshalToiras for permission to go and see his father, who wasat the point of death. 1 Go,’ said the Marshal, who sawthrough his pretext; ‘ honour thy father and mother,that thy days may be long in the laud.’BRIGHT.A person being asked which luminary he preferred, thesun or the moon, replied—‘ The moon, because it affordslight at night, when it is needed ; whereas the sun onlygives light at day, when we don’t want it.’BENEFITS OF HABIT.A benedict, upon being asked whether he was seriouslyinjured when a steam-boat boiler exploded, replied, ‘ thathe was so used to be blown up by his wife, that meresteam had no effect on him.’FKECOCITV.‘ Mamma, are all vessels called she V 1 Yes, my dear.’‘ Then how are all the national ships called men-of-war V‘ Jane, put that child to bed.’THE ART OF SHOPPING.1 What’s the price of this article ?’ inquired a deaf oldlady. ‘ Seven shillings,’ said the draper. ‘ Seventeenshillings !’ she exclaimed, ‘ I’ll give you thirteen.’ 1 Sevenshillings,’ replied the honest tradesman, ‘ is the price ofthe article.’ ‘ Oh ! seven shillings,’ the lady sharply re¬joined : 1 I’ll give you FIVE !’A FEARFUL HUSBAND.‘ If I’m not home from the party to-night at teno’clock,’ said a husband to his better and bigger half,‘ don’t wait for me.’ ‘ That 1 won’t,’ said the lady, signi¬ficantly, ‘ I won’t wait, but I’ll come for you.’ Ho returnedat ten precisely.12A rOSER.As a teacher was employed the other day in learninga sharp urchin to cipher on a slate, the pupil asked hisinstructor—‘ Whaur does a’ the ligures gang till whanthey’re rubbit oot ?’BODILY STRENGTH.A friend of ours says, he is growing weaker and weakerevery day. He has got so weak now that he can’t raisefive dollars.BAD TIMES.The times are so hard, and payments are so rare, thatthe girls complain that the young men cannot even paytheir addresses.A CASE OE DISTRESS.A poor Yankee, on being asked the nature of his dis¬tress, replied, ‘ that he had five outs and one in, viz., outof money and out of clothes ; out at the heels and out atthe toes ; out of credit and in debt.’A HANDSOME MAN.The editor of the Newbury Journal is said to be sohandsome, that he is forced to carry a club to keep thewomen off!PHILOSOPHY.Experimental philosophy—asking a man to lend youmoney.Moral philosophy—refusing to do it.SHADE OF THE DEPARTED.One of the American papers gives an account of alounger in his editorial office, who had beeitin the habitof sitting so long, that wrhen he died his shadow was foundfixed upon the wrall!a ’cute lad.A gentleman sent a lad with a letter to the Baltimorepost-office, and money to pay the postage. When lie re¬turned, he said, “ I guess I did the thing slick ; I see’da good many folks putting letters into the post-officethrough a hole, so I watched my chance, and got minein for nothing."13DIALECT.Edinburgh v. Aberdeen.—A gentleman from Aberdeenwas awoke one night lately in a hotel in Prince’s street,Edinburgh, by an alarm of fire. Upon going to the win¬dow, he called, out ‘ Vautchman, fareist?’ The watch¬man thanked him, and went towards the Register Office,where he found he was going in the wrong direction, andreturned. On repassing the hotel, he was again calledto by the Aberdonian, who hauled out, ‘ Vautchman, farwas’t?’ On looking up to him the watchman replied,‘ Ye’re a d—d leein scoonril : ye first tell’d me it was fareast, an’ noo ye say it’s far wast; but 1 tell ye it’s neithere’ tane or e’ tither, ’ cause its owre i’ e’ Coogate.’PHUENOLCGY ILLUSTP.ATED.A professor of cranioiogy passing the other morningthrough a churchyard near town, while they were open¬ing some old graves, took up several sculls, and affectedto distinguish very accurately the characters of theirowners. ‘ This, now,’ said rhe professor, 'belonged to aphilosopher.’ ‘Like enough, vour bo-our,’ replied thegravedigger, ‘ for I see it’s a bit craclced.'A SENTENCE.A fellow in Dublin had once committed some trillingoffence, for which the judge pronounced the followingsentence :—Judge.—‘ The sentence of the Court is, that you shallbe flogged from the Bank to the Quay.’Prisoner (hastily interrupting the Judge).—‘ Thankyou, my lord, you have done your worst.’Judge.—1 Aot yet; and back again.'a sailor’s joke.A sailor who had been fighting and making a riot, wastaken, first to a watch-house, then before a justice, who,after severely reprimanding him, ordered him to findbail. ‘1 have no bail,’ said Jack. ‘Then I’ll commityou,’ said the justice. ‘ You will!’ said the sailor, ‘ thenthe Lord send you the rope that stops the wind when theship’s at anchor.’ ‘ What do you mean by that?’ saidthe justice ; ‘ I insist on an explanation of that phrase.’‘ Why,’ said Jack, ‘ it’s the hanging rope at the yard¬arm.’14BKOAD HINT.1 Thomas,’ said a sponging friend of the family to afootman, who had been lingering about the room for halfan hour to show him to the door, ‘ Thomas, my good fel¬low, it’s getting late, isn’t it ? How soon will the dinnercome up, Thomas ? ’ ‘ The very moment you be gone, sir,’was the unequivocal reply.HOW TO MAKE MEN BRAVE.Sir Thomas Fitzgerald, famous for flogging, had raiseda regiment of pardoned peasantry in the sister kingdom,which he called the 1 Ancient Irish.’ He and his corpswere sent on foreign service. On his return he boastedfrequently of their bravery, and that no other troops wereso forward to face the enemy. ‘ No wonder,’ said NedLysaght; ‘ thanks to your flogging, they were ashamedto show their backs'THE SHAME-FACED IRISHMAN.An Irishman being asked, a few days since, to take amutton chop with a friend, declined the invitation, saying,‘ that he had ate so much mutton of late, he was ashamedto look a sheep in the face,'EXTRAORDINARY DESPATCH.The editor of an American paper, in describing therapid sale of his journal, assures those who choose tobelieve him, that it goes off like greased lightning !VICE-VERSA.As a canal-boat was passing under a bridge, thecaptain gave the usual warning by calling aloud, “ Lookout!” when a little Frenchman, who was in the cabin,obeyed the order by popping his head out of the window,which received a severe bump, by coming in contact witha pillar of the bridge. He drew it back in a great pet, andexclaimed, “ Dese Amerikans say, ‘ Look out!’ wnen deymean ‘ Look in !’ ”A DEPUTY WANTED.‘ I can’t speak in public—never done such a thing inall my life,’ said a chap the other night at a public meet¬ing, who had been called upon to hold forth, 1 but if any¬body in the crowd will speak for me, I’ll hold his hat.'15HOW TO GET A LIFT.‘ Pray,’ said Mr. to a gentleman he overtook onthe road, ‘will you have the complaisance to take mygreat coat in your carriage to town ?’ ‘ With pleasure,my dear sir ; but how will you get it again ?’ ‘ Oh, veryeasily,’ replied the modest applicant; ‘ I shall remain init.’SINGULAR RESEMBLANCE.An American, speaking of his niggers, said, ‘Caesarand Pompey arc so much alike that you can’t tell the onefrom the other, 'specially 1‘ompey.'A CURIOUS FACT.The proprietor of the perpetual motion, lately exhibitedat Boston, has absconded without even paying the manwho turned the crank in the cellar !SHARP RETORT.A Yankee and a Patlander happening to be riding to¬gether, passed a gallows. ‘ Where would you be,’ saidJonathan, ‘if the gallows had its due?’ ‘ Hiding alone,I guess,’ said the Irishman.PRODIGIOUS.By a series of interesting experiments lately made inPhiladelphia, a woman’s tongue has been found capableof moving one thousand nine hundred and twenty timesin a minute ! Think of that and weep !EITHER WAY WILL DO.‘ Will you have me, Sarah ?’ said a young man to amodest girl. ‘No, John,’ said she, ‘but you may haveme if you will.’JUSTICE AND IIIS PRISONER,‘ Sirrah,’ said a justice to one brought before him, ‘youare an arrant knave.’ ‘Am I, sir?’ says the prisoner;‘ just as your worship spoke, the clock struck two.’A LOGICAL POINT.1 I wonder,’ said a woman of humour, ‘ why my hus¬band and 1 quarrel so often, for we agree uniformly onone point: he wishes to be master, and so do I.’16CONJUGAL AFFECTION.A gentleman having a horse that started, and brokehis wife’s neck, a neighbour squire told him he wishedto purchase it for his wife to ride upon. ‘ No,’ says theother, ‘ I will not sell it; I intend to marry again my¬self ! ’A SHREWD ANSWER.A countryman being a witness in a court of Justice,was asked by ttie counsel if he was born in wedlock,—1 No, sir,’ answered the man, ‘ I was born in Devonshire.’AN ELEGANT COMPLIMENT.Dr. Johnson treated Mrs, Siddons, who called uponhim in Bolt-court, with the most marked politeness.Frank, his servant, could not immediately bring her achair. ‘ You see, madam,’ said the Doctor, ‘ whereveryou go, how difficult it is to find seats.’MILTON AND MR. HOTLE.Milton, that glory of British literature, received notabove .£10 at two different payments for the copyright of1 Paradise Lost;’ yet Mr. Hoyle, author of a treatise onthe game of whist, after having disposed of all the firstimpression, sold the copyright to a bookseller for 200guineas.A GREAT SECRET.A person reading in a newspaper an advertisementofl'ering a reward for some lost family documents, and bear¬ing at the end of it a common announcement, that thenotice was ‘ not to be repeated ;’ an old woman who hadbeen attentively listening, exclaimed—1 What! no to berepeated; eh, sirs, that maun be a great secret.’lot’s wife.A Highlander who has charge of a number of femalesin a public work near Glasgow, finding lately that busi¬ness was increasing too fast for the number of hisworkers, informed his employer that, ‘ If we'll no get morehaunds, we’ll juist hae to stick a’thegither.’—‘ Stick altogether!’ says the master; ‘ why, Donald, man, I neverheard of any one doing that except Lot’s wife.’—‘ Lot’swife,’ says Donald, ‘ wha was she—did she’ll wroght in thewark ?’17SCRIPTURE BIOGRAPHY.—(WHO WAS JESSE ?)An old schoolmaster, who usually heard his pupils oncea-week through Watts’ Scripture History, and afterwardsasked them promiscuously such questions as suggestedthemselves to his mind, one day desired a young urchinto tell him who Jesse was ; when the boy briskly replied,‘ The Flower of Dumblane, sir.’GINGER TILL.A short time since, a bailie of Glasgow invited someof his electioneering friends to dinner, during which thechampagne circulated freely, and was much relished bythe honest bodies; when one of them, more fond of itthan the rest, bawled out to the servant who waited, ‘ Isay, Jock, gie us some mair o’ that ginger yill, will ye !’INTERESTING QUESTION.At a debating club, the question was discussed, whetherthere is more happiness in the possession or pursuit of anobject ? ‘ Mr. President,’ said an orator, ‘ suppose I wascourtin’ a gal, and she was to run away, and 1 was to runafter her ; wouldn’t I be happier when I cotch’d her thanwhen I was running after her ;’EQUIVOCAL ADVERTISEMENT.The following notice might have been seen some timeago stuck up in a corset-maker’s shop window in Glas¬gow—4 All sorts of ladies stays here.’A BARGAIN.The following laconic epistle may be seen in the win¬dow of a coffee-house in Featherstone-street, City-road :—4 Stolen, from this window, a china cup and saucer ; theset being now incomplete, the thief may have the remain¬der a bargain.’AN EXCELLENT GRACE.One day, at the table of the late Dr. Pearce, (Dean ofFly,) just as the cloth was removing, the subject of dis¬course happened to be that of an extraordinary mortalityamongst the lawyers. 4 We have lost,’ said a gentleman,4 not less than six eminent barristers in as many months.’The Dean, who was quite deaf, rose as his friend finishedhis remark, and gave tho company grace :—4 For this, andevery other mercy, the Lord’s name be praised !’13STUTTERING SOLDIER.A soldier about to be sent on the late Spanish expe¬dition, said to the officer directing the drafts, ‘ Sir, I cannotgo, because I—I stut-utter.’ ‘ Stutter !’ says the officer,‘ you don’t go to talk, but to fight’ ‘ Ay, but they’ll p-putme on g guard, and a man may go ha-ha-half a milebefore 1 can say, who-who-who goes there ?’ 1 Oh, that isno objection, for there will be another sentry placed alongwith you, and he can challenge if you can fire.’ ‘ Well,b-b-but 1 may be taken and run through the g-g-guts,before I can cry qu-qu-quarter.’PEOMrT ANSWER,Chateanneuf, keeper of the seals of Louis XIII., whena boy of only nine years old, was asked many questionsby a bishop, and gave very prompt answers to them all.At length the prelate said," ‘ I will give you an orange ifyou will tell me where God is ?’—‘ My lord,’ replied theboy, ‘ I will give you two oranges if you tell me where heis not’bayle’s observation.Bayle was asked if a woman could keep a secret.‘ There is one secret,’ said he, 1 and that is the only onethey can keep—their age.’HIGHLAND SIMPLICITY.Last week, a yToung girl, fresh from the West High¬lands, came on a visit to a sister she had residing inGlasgow. At the outskirts of the town she stopped at atoll-bar, and began to rap smartly with her knuckleson the gate. The keeper, amused at the girl’s action,and curious to know what she wanted, came out, whenshe very demurely interrogated him as follows :—‘ Is thisClasco V—‘ Yes.’—Is Peggy in ?’a tailor's goose.A dashing foreman to a tailor in Glasgow, dining in amixed company, wished to impress those present withthe immense importance of his services to his employers.‘ Though I say it, that should not say it,’ quoth snip, ‘ ifit was not for me, our people could not carry on theirbusiness.’ ‘ I can very well believe you,’ said one of theparty, ‘ I never yet heard of a tailor who could carry onliis business without his goose.’19A KING AND A PHILOSOPHER.George III., while walking one day at Windsor, met asmart little boy, who was dressed in a suit of new clothes.The king, addressing him in his familiar way, said, ‘ Well,my little boy, to whom do you belong ?’ I'he boy knewthe king, and answered, ‘ An’t please your Majesty, Ibelong to one of his Majesty’s beef-eaters.’ The king wasso well pleased with the little fellow that he said, 1 If youbend on your knee 1 will allow you to kiss my hand.’‘ Nay,’ said the boy, ‘ I can’t do that, for it would dirtyall my new breeches.’QUESTION EOR QUESTION.A clergyman in Stirlingshire, catechising a numberof his parishioners, asked a man of the name of Peter,‘ How many years did the children of Israel sojourn inthe wilderness?’ To which he replied, ‘Forty years.‘ But can you tell me, sir,’ said Peter, ‘ how many knivesthe children of Israel brought back with them fromBabvlon to Jerusalem ?’ The clergyman paused andpondered, but could give no answer. ‘ Well,’ said Peter,‘they just brought back twenty-nine knives ; you willfind it in Ezra i. 9.’THE LAWYER OUTWITTED.A lawyer and his clerk riding on the road, his clerkdesired to know what was the chief point of the law.His master said, if he would promise to pay for their sup¬pers that night he -would tell him, which was agreed to.‘ Why, then,’ said the master, ‘ good witnesses are thechief points in law.’ When they came to the inn, themaster bespoke a couple of fowls for supper ; and whenthey had supped, told the clerk to pay for them, accord¬ing to agreement. ‘ Oh, sir,’ says he, ‘ where is yourgood witness ?’IGNORANCE OF FEAR.A child of one of the crew of his majesty’s ship Pea¬cock, during the action with the United States vessel,Hornet, amused himself with chasing a goat betweendecks. Not in the least terrified by destruction anddeath all around him, he persisted till a cannon balltook off both the hind legs of the goat, when, seeing herdisabled, he jumped astride her, crying, ‘ Now I’vecaught you.’20A COMMON CASE.‘ Doctor,’ said a person once to a surgeon, ‘my daughterhas had a terrible fit this morning ; she continued fullhalf an hour without knowledge or understanding.’ ‘Oh,’replied the doctor, ‘ never mind that, many people con¬tinue so all their lives.’GRAMMAR FOR THE MILLION.A young lady at school, engaged in the study of gram¬mar, was asked if ‘ kiss’ was a common or proper noun.After some hesitation, she replied, ‘ It is both commonand proper.’MODESTY.There is a young man in Cincinnati who is so modestthat he will not ‘ embrace an opportunity.’—He wouldmake a good mate for the lady who fainted when sheheard of the naked truth.COOKERY-BOOK.‘ Has that cookery-book any pictures?' said Miss C. toa bookseller. ‘ No, miss, none,’ was the answer. ‘ Why,’exclaimed the witty and beautiful young lady, ‘what isrthe use of telling us how to make a good dinner if theygive us no plates !'IRISHMAN’S NOTION OF DISCOUNT.It chanced one gloomy day, in the month of December,that a good-humoured Irishman applied to a merchantto discount a bill of exchange for him at rather a long,though not an unusual date ; and the merchant havingcasually remarked that the bill had a great many daysto run, ‘ That’s true,’ replied the Irishman, ‘but then,my honey, you don’t consider how short the days are atthis time of the year !’MISS WILBERFORCE.When Mr. Wilberforce was a candidate for Hull, hissister, an amiable and witty young lady, ofl'ered the com¬pliment of a new gown to each of the wives of those free¬men who voted for her brother—on which she wassaluted with a cry of ‘ Miss Wilberforce/or ever!’—whenshe pleasantly observed, ‘ I thank you, gentlemen; but1 cannot agree with you—for really 1 do not wish to beMiss Wilberforce for ever.’ ’21SENSIBILITY.A lady who made pretensions to the most refined feel¬ings, went to her butcher to remonstrate with him on hiscruel practices. ‘ How,’ said she, ‘ can you be so barbar¬ous as to put innocent little lambs to death V—‘ Whynot, madam,’ said the butcher, ‘ you would not eat themalive, would you VADVANTAGE OF TIME.A poor man being laughed at for wearing a short cloak,said, ‘ It will be long enough before 1 have done with it.’THE NEGRO AND HIS LETTER.A coloured man lately went to the post-office, and put¬ting his nose close up to the delivery box, cried out,‘Louder’.’ The clerk supposing the negro to be deaf,and that he was making a request of him to speak louder,so that he could hear, asked him in a very loud tone thename of the person for whom he wanted the letter.‘Louder!’ cried the negro. ‘ What name t' yelled theclerk. ‘ Louder '.’ again bawled the negro, who now sup¬posed the clerk to bo deaf. The clerk took a long breath,and with all his might again bellowed out in the negro’sface the same question—‘ What name V This was donein so loud a tone, that the echo seemed to return fromthe far-off hills. The negro started back in alarm, shout¬ing to the very top of his big lungs—1 Louder, sir,Louder ! I told you Louder! my name is nothing else !’‘ Oh, ah ! oh, oh !’ said the clerk, ‘ your name is Louder,eh ? Didn’t think of that; here’s your letter.’CHARGE TO A JURY.An able and learned judge was once obliged to deliverthe following charge to a jury :—‘ Gentlemen of the jury,in this case the counsel on both sides are unintelligible ;the witnesses are incredible ; and both the plaintiff anddefendant are such bad characters, that to me it is indif¬ferent which way you give your verdict.’SEVERE REBUKE.A French field-marshal, who had attained that rankby court favour, not by valour, received from a lady thepresent of a drum, with this inscription, Made to be beaten.22STAGGERING DRUNK.A witness having sworn that a prosecutor was stagger¬ing drunk, the counsel, being anxious to ascertain exactlywhat he meant by the term, desired the witness to puthimself in the same position !A LONG RANGE.A person of Chelmsford, more ingenious than scrupu¬lous, paid an account by a bill at 2 months ; but, on pre¬senting it at the end of that period, the holder found itwas drawn payable 2 months after death, instead of afterdate.HOW TO UNDERSTAND THE CURRENCY QUESTION.Open your window at one end of the room, and yourdoor at the other, on a stormy day, and your knowledgewill be complete.THREE WONDERS OF WOMEN.The daughter of a respectable gentleman, aged twenty,and possessed of no small share of personal attraction,said the other day, 1 She wondered why she had not gotmarried.’ This puts one in mind of the three wonders ofbeautiful women. First, at fifteen they wonder who theyshall take; second, at twenty-five they wonder why theyare not taken ; and third, at thirty-five they wonder whothey can find that will take them.NECESSARY EVILS.A gentleman was constantly in the habit of calling hisservants, before their faces, 1 necessary evils.’ He quar¬relled with one of them, who left him in a rage, said hewas sick of service, and vowed that he would never enterit again. A few days after, his old master meeting himin livery, said, ‘ Poll ! you are gone into service againafter all!’ ‘ Ah, sir, I have found that masters are‘ necessary evils.’ ’LOYALTY.John, an old dragoon soldier of George the Third’stime, was descanting lately to his wife Janet, and a fewneighbours, on the virtues and familiarity of his sove¬reign, who had reviewed the regiment to which hebelonged. Jane listened long with admiring patience,but at length put this question,— ' Was King George asgreat a king as Ahasuerus, John V ‘ Ahasuerus !’ ex¬claimed John, with great contempt, ‘ Ahasuerus! hewouldn’t have made a quarter-master to him.’23THE POWER OF TRUE LOVE.A girl in one of the midland counties, who has a swivelor screw eye, looked so long and affectionately on a ginbottle, that she actually drew the cork !IIYDROPATH Y.A hairdresser of London was the other day suddenlyand unexpectedly cured of deafness under the hydropathicsystem. lie was assisting at a fire, when the engineplayed into his ear and knocked him down. He arosewith his hearing completely restored.GROWING DESPERATE.Col. Greene, of the JJoston 1’ost, an old bachelor, givesthe following notice in his paper of the 12th of January:‘ Notice.— The girls will please take notice, that leap yearwill end on the 31st instant.’THE ALTERNATIVE.Sir Walter Scott tells a story of a gentleman, who,irritated at some misconduct of his servant, said, ‘ John,either you or I must quit this house.’ ‘ Very well, sir,'said John, ‘ where will your honour be ganging to ?’IRISH WIT.An Irishman being asked what he came to Americafor, said, ‘ Is’t what 1 came here for, you mane ? Arrah,by the powers ! you may be sure that it wasn’t for want,for I had plenty of that at home.’ROYAL WIT.Lord Eldon told Miss Itidley, his niece, that the king,speaking to the archbishop, Dr. Charles Manners Sutton,of his large family, used the expression, ‘ I believe yourgrace has better than a dozen.’ ‘ No, sire,’ said the arch¬bishop, ‘only eleven.’ ‘ Well,’replied the king, ‘is notthat better than a dozen ?’HINT TO EXQUISITES.A celebrated Parisian dandy was ordered, a few daysago, by his physicians, to follow a course of sea-bathingat Dieppe. Arrived at that delightful bathing-town, heordereu a machine and attendant, and went boldly intothe water. He plunged in bravely; but, in an instantafter, came up puffing and blowing. ‘ Francis,’ said he,‘ the sea smells detestably ; it will poison me. Throw alittle eau de Cologne into the water, or I shall be suffo¬cated !’24A NATURAL MISTAKE.The late witty Samuel William Riley, author of TheItinerant, seeinr; a proud and solemn calf of sixty, swell¬ing down Lord Street, Liverpool, accosted him, politelytouching his hat, ‘ Excuse me, sir, stopping you in thestreet, but I just wished to inquire the rent of the houseNo. 10 Great George Street ?’ ‘ Sir,’ replied his haughti¬ness, ‘ I have no house in Great George Street.’ ‘ Oh !I beg a thousand pardons, sir,’ said Mr. R., ‘ I thoughtall the town belonged to you !HIGHWAYMAN AND SAILOR.One of the Dover stages, on its way to London, wasstopped by a single highwayman, who was informed bythe coachman there were no passengers inside, and onlyone in the basket, and he was a sailor. The robber thenproceeded to exercise his employment on the tar : when,waking him out of his sleep, jack demanded what hewanted ; to which the son of plunder replied, ‘ Yourmoney.’ ‘ You shan’t have it,’ said Jack. ‘ No!’ repliedthe robber: then I’ll blow your brains out’ ‘ Blowaway, then you land-lubber,’ cried Jack, squirting thetobacco juice out of his mouth, ‘ I may as well go to Lon¬don without brains as without money : drive on, coach¬man.’IRISH PATRIOTISM.At "Waterloo, a Highland regiment and the ScotsGreys met in the thickest of the fight, and raised the cryof ‘ Scotland for ever !’ ‘ And ould Ireland for longer!'exclaimed an Irish dragoon.DROWSY REPLY.Sir Edward Bulwer Lytton tells a story of a certainmerchant, who, sleeping in a commercial hotel, had givenorders overnight that he should be called at a particularhour. Boots was punctual. ‘ The morning has broke,sir,’ said he, drawing the curtain. ‘ Let it break and goto the mischief!’ replied the sleepy trader ; 1 it owes menothing !’EVILS OP WAR.One of Punch's friends who was present at the battleof Navarino, in the peaceful capacity of a passenger,received a cannon ball in his chest, which utterly de¬stroyed a dozen shirts that were packed up in it!