/HISTORYBUCKHAVENOR THE EXPLOITS OFwas® WII.MEANDWITTT EPPIE.FALKIRK :PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.\••:cTHEHISTORYOFBUCKHAVEN.Amonst all the ancient records yet found, Bucky,or Buckhaven is never mentioned. There was aset called Bucchaneers, who were pirates, that isto say, sea-rohbers, but strict search being madefor these sea-robbers, they were dispersed. What of them escaped in the southern climate,are said to shelter at or near Berwick upon Tweed.Having differed amongst themselves, a smart battleensued, after which they divided, and it is said,the party who gained the Bucky battle, fearedthe English law would take place, they set north¬ward, and took up their residence at Buckhaven,so called, not only on account of the great quan¬tity of duckies that are found in and about theplace, but on account of the battle they bad withtheir neighbours at Berwick, when they divided,which they called bucking one and other, but now-named boxing, or fighting. Another party of3those Backers settled in a fishing town at Banft’,called Bucky and near the river Spey, which isnow a pretty large sea-port town But among allthe sea-towns in Scotland the fishers still retaina language quite different from the people inthe country ; and they always shift the letter Hand use O instead thereof, which no country-people in Scotland do hut themselves. There isa corruption of speech in every country over allBritain, and likewise they use different tonesand ways of pronouncing words from others ;even some in the south of Scotland can hardlyDe understood by those in the north, though Dothpretend to speak good English, and have a liberalpart of education. But since learning is nowso easy to be obtained, ignorance and corruptionof speech are greatly decreased.In the county of Fife, on the sea coast, therestands a little town, inhabited by few but fisbers,called Buck harbour, because of sea buckies andshel's to be found so plenty on the rocks aboutthat place. There is little mention made ofthis place by historians, to know its originalextraction and antiquities, but in their ownburges ticket which was partly perfect truth,but more of it by way of lampoon, This ticketwas dated the thirty second day of the monthof Julius Caesar, I heir Coat of Arms were twohands gripping each other over a scale’s rumple.Their oath was, ‘ I wish that de de‘il maytak me an l binna an horest man to you anl4ye binna de like to me.’ An article of good neigh¬bourhood they had, whoever was first up in agood morning, was to raise all the rest to go tosea, but if it was a very bad morning, piss and goto bed again till break of day, then raise WiseWillie, who could judge of the weather by theblawing of the wind.—Their freedoms were totake all sorts of fish contained m their tickets, aslobsters, partens, podles, spout-fish, sea-cast, sea-dogs, flucks, pikes, dick-paddocks, and p-fish.t - * J • 1 d ' J I A > ' 1 i ' j jU ‘f l : J U C J I ; U H | 1 . MilAgain these people are said to have descendedfrom one Tom and ins two sons who were fisherson the coast of Norway, who in a violent stormwere blown over and got ashore at Buckharbourwhere they settled; and the whole of his childrenwere called Tom’s sons, and soon became a littletown by themselves, as few of any other namedwelt among them. Tnis is a traditional story,handed down from one generation to another.They keep but little communication with countrypeople about them, for a farmer in those daysthought his daughter cast away, if she marriectone of the fishers in Bucky harbour ; and on theother hand, Witty Eppie, the ale wife, wad as *orn, “ Be go laddie. I wad rathei see my boatand a’ rny three sons dadded against the Bass, orI saw ony o’ them married to a muck a byre’sdaughter, a wheen useless tapies, it can do nae-thing but puck at a two rock, and cut a corn,they can neither bait a hook nor rade a line, bego laddie, nor gather perriwinkles.Now Wise Willy and Witty Eppie theale wife, lived there about a hundred years ago.Eppie’s chamber was their College and Court-House, where they decided their controversies, andexplained their wonders ; for the house was likea little kirk, had four windows and a gabel door,the wives got leave to fl} te their fill, but fightingwas prohibited, as Eppie said, ‘ Up hands wasfoul play.’ Their fines was a pint of ale, andEppie sold it at a plack the pint. They hadneither minister nor magistrate, nor a burley-bailie, to brag them wi’ his tolbooth. TheLord of the Manor decided all disputable points,and Wise Willie and Witty Eppie the ale wife,were the rulers of the town.Now Eppie had a daughter, she called herLmgle-tailed Nancy, because of her fecklessgrowth ; her waist w'as like a twitter, see had naeeurpen for her creel, being Edinburgh bred, andbrought up with her London aunty, who learnedto read and sew, made coarse claes, and calicoemancoes, there was nae a scholar in a’ the townbut hersel, she read the Bible and the book ofkirk sangs was newly come in fashion. Willieand Eppie told them aye what it meant, and saida’ the letters in it was litted by my Lord, forthey saw him ha’e a feather that he dipped inblack water, and made crooked scores, just likethe same, and then he spoke o’er again, and ittold him what to say.6It happened on a day, that two of theirwives near the town found a hoise shoe, andbrought it home and sent for Wise Willie to seewhat it was. Willie comes and looks at it; indeedco, Willie its a thin? and holes in it. I ken’dCo’ they, he would get a name till’t. A ho, co’Wi Hie, w'nare did you find it ? Aneath my Lord’sain house Willie. Adeed. said Willie, it’s theauld moon. I ken by the holes in’t for nailing itto the lift; but I wonder if she fell in Fife, forthe last time I saw her, she was hanging onher back aboon Edinburgh. A hech, co’ Willie,we’ll set her upon the highest house in the town,and we’ll ha’e moon light o’ our ain a’ the dayso' the year: The « holt, town ran to see the moon,bout toot’ said Witty Eppie, ye’re but a’ foolsthegither ; its but ane o’ the things it my Lord’smare wears upon her lufe.At another time one of their wives founda hare with its legs broken, lying among her kailin the yard. She not knowing what it was,called out to her neighbours to see it. Somesaid it was a gentleman's cat, or my lady’slap-dog, or a sheep's joung kitten, because it hadsalt horns. Na, na, cried Wise Willie, it's aneo’ the maukins that gentlemen‘s dogs worries,What will we do wi t. Hech. co' they all,we’ll sing the woo, and make fish and sauceo’t to my Tammies parritch. Na, na, saidWitty Eppie, better gie’t to my Lord, and he'llstap an iron slick through the guts o t and gar’t7rln round abaut the fire till it be roasted. No, no,said Wise Willie we’ll no do that indeed, for myLord wad mak us a’ dogs, and gar us rin throughthe country seeking maukins for him.It happened on a datk winter morning,that two of their wives were going to Dysartto sell their fish ; and on the road side therehappened to be some tinkers’ ass tethered The poor ass seeing the twa wives coming withtheir creels, though it was the tinkers comingto flit or relieve him, fell a crying; so the twawives threw their fish away, and ran home likethe very devil, and said that he spoke to thembut they didna ken what he said, for it waswords like a Highlandman’s; the whole townwas in an uproar; some would go with picksand spades, and hag him to pieces, others wouldgo and catch him in a strong net, and then theycould either hang or drown him. Na, na, quo’Willie, that’ll no do, we maun cast out wi’ him atfirst as he has gotten the twa burdens o’ fish,he’ll e’en gang his wa’ and no fash us nae mair,lies o’er suple to be catch’a in a net: a’yourpith will neither hang nor drown him, andthe kintry he cames frae is a’ het coals, so he’llnever burn; we'll gae to him in a civil manner,and see what he wants Get out Eppie,the ale wife, and Lingle tailed Nancy wi’ theBible and Psalm book. So off they went ina crowd, either to kill the de’il, or catch him1aiive; and as they came near the place, the assfell a crying, whieh caused many of them to faintand run back. Na, na, quo’ Willie, that’s nothe de’il’s words at a’, it’s my Lord’s trumpq^ir.touting on his brass whistle. Willie venturedtill he saw the asse’s twa lugs, now, crid Willieback to the. rest, come forward and baud him fast,I see his twa horns, hech, sirs, he has a whitebeard like an auld beggar man; so they enclosedthe poor ass on all sides, thinking itw'a's the de’il,but when Wise Willie saw he had nae clovenfeet, he cried out, I carena lads, this is no thede’il, its some living beast, its neither cow norhorse. And what is’t then Willie ? Indeed, quo’Willie, its the faither o’ the maukins, I ken by itslang lugs.Now, some say this history is too chimerical,but it is according to the knowledge of thosetimes, not to say any place by another. Theold wives will tell you yet of many such stories,of the devil appearing to their grandfather? andgrandmothers, and dead wives coming back againto visit their families long after being dead.Sp this .Buckhaven was once noted for drollexpleits ; but it has now become more known,and a place said to produce as hardy watermenor sailors, of any town on the Soots coast. Yetmany of the old people in it still retain the oldrincrute of their ancient and uncultivated speech,such as Be go laddie ; they are also of a fierynature, for if you ask any of their wives whereI\J9their college stands, they tell you, if your nosewere in their a- your mouth would be at thed&>r of it.Now, it so happened, when Wise Willieturned old, he took a great swelling in his wame,and costing up his kail, collops, and cauld fish,that nothing could stand on his stomach, anda stout stomach he had for crabs’ heads andscate-broth, or brose on a bridal morning, yet itfailed him, and he fell sick; none could cure himnor tell what ailed him, till a mountebank stage-doctor came to Kiikaldy, that could judge bypeople’s piss the trouble of their person. Wise Willie hearing of his fame, pissed intoa bottle, and sent it away with his daughter.The bottle being uncorked his daughter spilt itby the way; to conceal her sloth in so doing,she pissed in it herself, and goes on till she cameto the stage-doctor, when she cried out aloud,Sir Doctor, sir Doctor, here’s a bottle of myfather’s wash, he has a sair guts and needs nadrite ony, but spews a’ he eats, Its true I tellyou my dow. The doctor looks at it, then saysj It’s no your father’s surely, it is your motbei’s.I The de’il’s i’ the man, said she, dinna I ken my| father frae my mither Then, said he, he is1 with child. The de’il’s i’ the man, said she, formy mither bare a’ the bairns before ; dats notrue sir, fegs you’re a great liar. Kame shecomes, and tell’d Willie, her father, that thedoctor said he was with bairn. O waes me, quo’10Willie, for I have a muckle tvame, an’ I fear it’so’er true. O plague on you, Janet • for ye'rethe father o‘t. Very soon after this Witty Eppiewas sent for, as she was the howdy, and she fund a’Willie’s wame to be sure about it. Indeed, co’Eppie, ye’re the first man e’er I saw wi bairn beforean how ye’ll bear 1 dinna ken. Ye hae a wallywame, weel I wat, but how men bears bairns Idinna ken. But I would drink salt water anddrovrn it in my guts; for if men get ance the gateo’ bearing wears themselves, they’ll seek naemair wives, So Willie drank sea w'ater till hisguts was like to rive, and out he got to easehimself in the kailyard, and wdth the terriblenoise ot his farting, up started a maukin behindhim, whe thought it was shot; Willie seeing herjump o’er the dyke, thought it was a chil I broughtforth, and cries out. Come back my dear, and bechristened, and dinna rin to the hills to be aPagan. So Willie grew better every day there¬after, being brought to hed in the knil-yard, but_his daughter was brought to bed some monthsafter, which was the cause of the doctor’s mistake.11iU8 3n, atampd •' j tooc.'<PART IINow Wise Willie had a daughter, calledRolling Couching Jenny, as she spoke thick,sax words at three times, ha’f sense, ha’f nonsense,as her own records will bear witness. She beingwith child, she was delivered of a bonny lass, andall the wives in the town cried out, be go laddie,its ju^t like its ain faither. Lang Sandy Tason,(or Thomson) we ken by its nose ; for Sandyhad a great miickle red nose like a lobsters tae,bow’ed at the point like a hawk’s neb. and Sandyhimsel’ said, it was surely his or some otherbody’s, but be had used a’ his birr at the gettingo’t, trying his abilities, being the first time e’erhe was at sic a business before ; and when liehad done a’ that man could do at it he said itwas nonsence; and shame fa’ him, but be wadrather row his boat round the Hass and back againor he’d do the like again ; for "A ise Willie gadewude at the wane, an') said it had mair ill naturein’t than theauldest wife about the town ; for itpissed the bed, and shit the bed; skirled likea wild cat, and keeped him frae his niglul$ rest,and the auld hags about the town cadi ^himSandy, the bairns daddy, and a’ the young gilliegauky lasses held out their fingers, and cried,Ti hie, hie Sandy the kirk will kittle your hipsfor that; and after a’ the bleer-eyed bell man12came bladdering about the buttock meal, sum¬moned him and her before the haly band, a courtthat was held in the kirk on Saturday morning;and all the herd laddies round about, cried, ay,ay, Sandy, pay the bill siller, or we’ll cut thecow’s tail away. So poor Sandy suffered sadlyin the flesh, beside the penalty and kirk penance.But Wise Willie took pity on them, and gaffewi’ them to the kirk’s court, what learned folkcall the session. Jenny was first called upon,and in she gees, where all the haly band was con¬vened, elders and younger deacons, and dog-payerkeeping the door, the cankerdest darle that couldbe gotten between Dysart and Dubbyside, whiteheads and bald beads, sitting wanting bonnets,wi’ their white headed staves and hodden greyjockey coats about them.Mess John say come awa Janet, we’re waitingon you here.Minister. Now Janet, where was this childgotten?Janet. A deed sir, it. w'as gotten amang theblack stanes, at the cheek o’ the crab holes.Mess John stares at her, not knowing theplace, but some of the elders did. Then saidhe, O Janet but the devil was busy with you atthat time. '.a-,l'vdu*a<0311 j soam <.i3, > -j -j wJanet, * by my fegs, sir, that’s a great lieye’re telling now, for the de’il was nae there,ISthat I saw, or ony body else, to bid us to do aething or anither : we lo’ed ither unco weel fora lang time before that, and syne we tell’d itheran agreed to marry ither like honest folk; thenmight na we learn to do the thing married folk dowithout the de’il helping us ?Whisht, whisht, cried they, you should bescourged. False jillet be quit, you’re speakingnonsense.Janet. De de’il’s in the carles, for you andyour minister’s are liars, when you say it is thede’il it was helping Sandy and me to get a bairn.Come, come, said they, put down the kirkdues, and come back to the stool the morn ; theprice is four pounds and a groat to the bell-mah.Janet. The auld thief speed the darth o’t sir,far less might sair you and your bell-man baith.O but this be a warld indeed, when poor honestfolks maun pay tor making use of their ain a—-.Ye misca’ the poor de’il ahint his back, an gi’eshim the wyte o' a’ the ill in the kintry, bastardbairns and every thing; and if it be as you ,say,ye may thank the de’il for that four pound and agroat I have gi’en you, that gars your pot playbrown, and gets you jockey coats, purl-handedsarks, and white headed staves, when my father’spat wallops up rough bear and blue water.The woman is mad, said they, for this moneyis all to the poor of the parish. (ii14Janet. The poor o’the parish, said she, Sentahaitye gi’e them but wee pickles o’ pease meal,didna I see’t in their pocks : and the minister’s wifegies nacthing ava to unco’ beggars, but bids themgang hame to their ain parishes; and yet ye’lltake the purse frae poor folk for naething 'putplaying the loon awee or they married, an synecock them up to be looked on and laughed at byevery body; a deil speed you an your justice, sir.Hute tute, ye’re a’ coming on me like a wheencolly dogs hunting awa a poor ragged chapmanfrae the door. So out she goes cursemg andgreeting. Sandy is next called upon, and in hegoes.Minister. Now Saunders, you must tell us howthe child was gotten.Sandy. A now Mess John, sir, ye hae bairnso’ your ain, how did you get them. P>ut yoursare a’ laddies, and mine is but a lassie, ifyou’dtell me how you got your laddies, 1 11 tell youhow I got my lassie, and then we’ll be baith alikegood o’ the business.The minister looks at him, and says, ‘Jute,tute. Saunders, lay down four pound ane a groat,and come back to-morrow to the stool, and givesatisfaction to the congregation; ye had moreneed to be seeking repentance for that abominablesin of uncleanness, than speaking so to me.Sandy. Well here is your siller, sir, I hae gottenbut poor penny worths for’t, and so ye tell me to15repent for’t; what the auld theif needs I repent,when I'm gaun to marry the woman ; and thenI hae to do’t o’er again every day, or there’llbe nae peace in the house ; figs its nonsense topay siller, repent and do't again too, a great ad¬vice, ineed, maister minister, an’ that’s the wayto do.Willie. Njw, sir, and ye maister elders, yemaunna put them on the black creepy till theybe married, they’ve suffered enough at ae time.Aweel, eweel, said they, but they must manyvery soon.I true, says Sandy, ye’ll be wanting some mairclink; foul haet ye do for naething here.Hame comes Sandy, starving o’ hunger; yemight a cast a knot on his lang guts. Hismither was baking pease bunnocks. up he getsa lump o’ her leaven into his mouth. Auld theifbe in your baggies’ bag, Sandy, says bis mither,kirk folk are aye greedy, ye hae been wi’ theministers a’ day ; you’d get a gude lang grace, hemight a gi’en ye meat too ; filthy dog that thou is,you ha’e the bulk o’ a little pye o’ my leavenin your guts : it would a sairea anes dinner, saewad it e’en, but an ye keep a reeking houseand a rocking cradle three eleven years as I haedone, less o‘ that will serve you yet, baggy beastit thou is, mind it I bore thee now, a hear youthat my dow.If)The next exploit was an action at law, againstthe goodraan of Muiredge, a farmer, who livednear by, that kept sheep and swine. His sheepcame down and broke into their yards, and ate uptheir kail; the wild hares they thought belongedto the same man, as they ran to his house whenthey were hunted. The swine came very oftenin about their houses, seeking fish guts apd onything they could get; so it happened when oneof the children was sitting easing itself, thatone of the swine tumbled it over, and bit a pieceout of its backside ! The whole town rose inan uproar against grumphy, as they called her,caught her, and took her before Wise Willie.He took an axe and cut two or three inches offher long nose. Now, says he, 1 trow I haemade thee something like another beast, thouhad sic a lang mouth before it wad frighteda very de’il to look at ye, but now you’re facedlike a little horse or cow. The poor sow ranhome roaring, ail blood, and wanting the nose ;which caused Muiredge to warn them in beforemy Lord. So the wives that had their kail eatenappeared first in the court, complaining againstMuiredge. Indeed, my Lord, said they, IVIuir-edge is no a good man when he is sic an illneighbour, he keeps black hares and white hares,little wee brown backed hares, with white arses,and loose wagging homes ; they creep in at ourwater gush holes, and does the like. When wecry pussy, pussy, they rin hame to Muiredge ;.v* ■ t17but I’ll gar my colley baud them by the fit an I’llbaud them by the horn, an’ pu’ the hair aff them,and send them hame wanting the skin, as wi’Sowen Tammy’s wee Sandy, for coding o’ hispease, he took aff the poor laddie’s coat, and saedid he e’en. And Willie said, if you were a sow,my Lord, and me sitting droiting, and you to bitemy arse, sudna I hae amends of you for that!Qd, my Lord, ye wadna hae a bite out of yourarse for twenty merks ; ye maun e’en gar Muir-fidge gi’e ten merk to buy a plaister, to heal thepoor bit wean’s arse again.Well said Willie, says my Lord; but who putson the sow’s nose again.A fegs, my' Lord, said Willie, she’s honesterlike wanting it, and she’ll bite nae mair arses.An ye had bane a nose my Lord, as tang as thesow had, ye'd been obliged to ony body it wadcut a piece af’t.\ gentleman in coming past, near their town,asked one of their wives where their collegestood ? said she give me a shillingfand I’ll let yousee baith sides o’r. He gives her the shillingthinking to see something cnrious. Now, saysshe, there’s the one side of your^shilling, andthere’s the other, so its mine now.Now, Wise Willie being greatly admiredfor his judgment in cutting oft’ the sow’s nose,my Lord, in a mocking manner, made him burleybailie of Buckhaven ; Lang Sandy was provost,18and John Tlirums the weaver was dean of guild,But Witty Eppie had aye the casting vote in a’their courts and controversier.P VRT HI.There happened one day a running horseto be standing at one of their doors, and a childgoing about, the horse tramped upon the child’sfoot, which caused the poor child to cry : themother ca.ne running in a passion, erring, A waebe to you for a horse, filthy barbarian brute itthou is, setting a muckle iron lufe on my bairnswe fittie. Od sir. I’d rive the hair out o'your head, gripping the horse by the main andthe t va lugs, cuffing his chaffs, as he had beenher fellow creature, crying Be go laddie, I’ll garyou as good, i’ll take you afore Wise Willie thebaillie, an he’1 cut aff}our hand wi’ de iron lufeand ye’ll be cripple, and gang thro’ the kintry ina barrow, or on twa shule staves, like Rab theR*ndy, and a meal pock about your neck Her neighbour hearing and st eing what passed,cries, O you foolish tawpy, what gars you speakthat gate till a borse, he disna ken ae word thatye’re saying to him.W hen Lang Sandy and Rolling CouchingJenny were mairied, their wedding took upthree days and two nights, My Lord and myLady, with several other ladies and gentlemenattended fer diversions sake. The piper ofKirkcaldy and the fiddler of Kinghorn were bothI bidden by Wise Willie the bride’s father, andI if any more came to play unbidden, Willie sworethey should sit unsaited, for these twa sud geta’ de siller dat was to be gi’en or wan. Thatday the dinner and dorter-meat sat in Eppie’sI College, and the dancing stood in twa ringsI before the door ; and the first day the dauntingand dangling of their heels dang down tho sea-dyke ; some tumbled in, and some held by thestones, the fiddler fell in o’er the lugs and druckithis fiddle, the strings gade out o’ order, andthe tripes turned salt like pudding skins : so thei piper had to do fo- a’, and the fiddler had naething| to do but sup kail and pick banes wi’ the rest3 of them. Now my Lord’s cook was to orderi the kettle, but Lng Pate o’ the Pans plaj ed a sadJpret, by casting twa pound o’ candle among thekail, which made them so fat tnat some couldSi not sup them and the candle wicks came aye into,11 their cutties like sutors’ Jingles in the dishes ;i but some wi’ stronger stomachs, stripped themI trough their teeth like rats’ tails, and said,mony ane wad be blythe o’ sic a string to tie uptheir hose in a pinch, My Lord and the gentry,Mess John and the clerk, were all placed atthe head of the table, opposite the bride, butwould sup none of their candle kail. Willieand tire bridegroom served the table, and cried,! Sup on a sorrow to ye, for I never liked sour20kail about my house. When the flesh camethe bride got a ram’s rumple to pick. She takesit up and wags it at my Lord, saying, Ti-hee,my Lord, whatna a piece is this. Oh, saidmy Lord, that’s the tail piece, it belongs to you,bride. It’s no mine’s, I never had the like o’t,its a fish tail, see how it wags, but it is a bit o’some dead beast. O yes. said he, bride, youhave hit it now; but how came you to eat withyour gloves on? Indeed, my Lord, there’sa reason for dal too, I ha’e scabbed hands.O said he I cannot believe you. She pulled offa part of the gloves and shewed him. O yes,said he, I see it is so. Aha, said she, but I wishyou saw my arse, my Lord, its a' in a hotter.O fie, William, said my Lord, I wonder youdon’t teach your daughter to speak with moremodesty. By my sae, my Lord, ye may as weelkiss her arse. I find so, said my Lord, but it isfor w ant of a teacher.The next dish that was set on the tablewas roasted hens; and the bride’s portion beinglaid on her plate, she says to my Lord, will yelet me dip my foul arse amang your sauce!Upon my word, said my Lord, I will not, if it beas ye tell me. Hout, rey Lord, said the bride,its no my arse, its but the ben’s that I mean,O but, said be, its the fashion for every one toeat off their own trencher, you may get moresauce, I can manage my own myself. Indeed,my Lord, said she, I thought y ou liked me better21 -nor ony ither body. True, said he, but I likemyself best, and you should not speak ill of mylady for she hears you. Deed my Lord I think ye‘rethe best body about the house, for my Lady'sbut a stinking pridefu’ jade, she thinks that wesud make de fish and de baddies a‘ alive ; be-gomy Lord, she thinks we can shape them as de hendoes her egg wi’ her arse. O bride, says he,you should not speak ill of my lady, for she hearsyou very well. O deed, my Lord, I had naemind o’’ dat. Drink to me, then said he, or themyou like best. Then says she, here’s to ye a‘ degidder, heels o’er head. Very well said, says myLord, that’s good sense.Dinner being over, my Lord desired the! bride to dance. Indeed, my Lord, said she,I canna dance ony, but I’ll gar iny wame wallop1 foment yours, and then we’il rin round about| as fast as we can. Very well, bride, said he, thatwill just do; we shall neither kiss nor shakei hands, but I’ll bow to thee, and ye’ll beck to me,so we’ll have done. So after the dinner anddancing, my Lord exhorted the bride to be agood neighbour, and to ’gree with every bodyround about. I wat weel, my Lord, said she,ye ken I ne’er coost out wi’ ony ane but iangPate o’ the Pans, an he bad a’ de wyce o’t; hebagan and was aye jeering me about Sandy,de tdack stanes and de crab holes where de weanwas gotten; and then it turned to a hubbub an1 cullyshangy, and, or ere you could kiss my arse,I22my Lord, we was aboon ither on the mussel mid¬den. T trow 1 tell’d him o’ Randy Rab, hisuncle, his ? in titty that steal d de sarks and drankde siller, and how his mither sal‘d mauky mutton,and mair than a’ that, my Lord.My Lord had a friend, a captain in thearmy, who came to visit him. and having heardof tlie Buckers’sayings and exploits, was desirousto see them. My Lord, put them in a frightsent his servent to order them ad, men andwomen, to come up before his gate to-morrowabout kail time ; and all that did not come, wasto flit and remove out of my Lord’s grounddirectly. This put the whole town in a terribleconsternation, some ran to Wise 'Vj||ie, to seeif he could tell what it meant. Willie said, thatit was before something ; and he said he wassuredeath was the worst o’t, come what will. ButWitty Eppie said, I ken weel what's to come,he’s gaun make de men o‘s a‘ sodgers andthe wives dragoons, because they’re the bestfighters ; I ken there’s something to come onthe town, for our Nancy saw Maggy s ghaist thestreen, it was buried about four w eeks sinsyne.A hech, co‘ Willie, that's a sign the meal's dearin the ither warld, when she comes back to thisane again; well take our dinner afore we gaeto my Lord, we 11 maybe ne er come back again.So away they went lamenting, all in a crowd.My Loid and the Captain was looking over thewindow, when they arrived ; and the Captaia23cries to them, to the right about. To whichthey answered O bless you, my Lord, what is:dat man saying? J'ays my Lord, he bids youturn your face to Maggy’s hill, and your a to the sea, which they did in all haste. An whatwhat will we do now ? said Willie. No more, saidmy Lord, bat go all home, Willie. O my dear,My blessing come on your bonny face, myLord, I wish you may never die, nor never growsick, nor nae body fell you, ye are the best manin a’ the world, for we thought a' to be deadmen or sodgers. ye’re wiser than o’ the witches: on the coast o’ Fite or in a’ the world.There was a custom in Bucky HarbourI when they got a hearty drink, that they w'entdown to dance among the boats, and two orthree of the oldest went into a boat to see therest dance. And when they admitted a burgherthere was always a dance. One day they ad¬mitted gly’d Rob. who was a warlock, and madethem alt stop their dancing ; for which he was3 carried before Wise Willie, to answer for this,|l| his crime; for which he was banished to the isleof May, at the mouth of the Frith of Forth, tocarry coals to the Light House,The Bucky lads and lasses, when they go togather bait, tell strange stories about ghostsand witches, Willie wt’ the wisp, and Kelpyfaires, maukins, and bogles of all sorts. Fheythink the ghosts go all night like auld horses.r -I.24for fear of being seen, and be made to carryskate fish and dnlce. They think witches are thewarst kind of devils, and make use'of cats to i idoupon, or kale kebbers and besom shafts, and thatthey sail over the sea in cockle shells, and be¬witches lads and lasses and disables bridegrooms.They think Willie and the Wisp is a fiery devil,and leads people off their road to drown them inthe sea They t,hinK Kelpy is a sly devil, androars before a loss at sea. And they believe thatthe Fairies lift new horn bairnsfronr their mothers,and that none of them are safe to lie with theirmothers for a night or two alter they are born,unless the mother gets a pair of men's breechesunder their head, which sets the fairies adiift;but if they neglect to do this, they say the fairieswill carry off the child, and leave a block of woodwith the mother.i d • ir* j- itjimbfi v jr.j iredw Lett •*>" i* n y ! ’£'■■> SaO .93nfj!> r. syr - l: S'W * }sb- rn i ns riot t w s gr.w odw .cioif i H: > nguff sil d irfiv,' Tod ; uonrtcfr tiodl rjoJi He ft J,eii'l To>Vi^*i»nn oj ,9ilb //' 9si sroloTi f -< nn»slsiy J < i bofbord vtw Off rloii ar t j off.* r furoj .i^io'd '1(» r m' i do dJ si t Jb ■ <>f>1 oj; vodt rodw 1 f>ns ai /d V/louft tip Mi (h. tfonoja ypitc'f ' ha} dif.d ■vqlo/i I n.: q dw 9i:l *ivr ddli .iorid-f!\ oi'l .*1108 ii: do S od ’•fcfis , nijlurm.saalod JJtate sd 1 irljjifi H> og sleodg idl