THEMERRY TALESOF THEWISE MEN fOFHOTHAM.Of merry Books tins is the i-hh t,’Twill make you laugh your fill.THEMERRY TAX.ESOF THEWISE MEN OF GOTHAM.TALE I.There were two men of Gotham, andone of them was going to Nottinghammarket to buy sheep, and both met to¬gether on Nottingham bridge. Wellmet, said one to the other; whither areyou going ? said he that came from Not¬tingham. Marry, said he that was go¬ing thither, I am going to the marketto buy sheep. Buy sheep l said the o-ther, which way will you bring themhome? Marry, said the other, I willbring them over this bridge. By Robin3Hood, said lie that came fronr Notting¬ham, but thou shalt not. By my maidMargery, said the other, but I will.You shall not, said the one. I will,said the other. Then they beat theirstaves one against the other, and thenagainst the ground, as if a hundredsheep had been betwixt them. Holdthere, said the one. Beware of mysheep leaping over the bridge, said theother. I care not, said the one. Theyshall all come this way, said the other.But they shall not, said the one. Thensaid the other, if thou makest muchado, I will put my finger in thy mouth.A turd thou wilt, said the other. Andas they were in contention, anotherwise man that belonged to Gotham,came from the market with a sack ofmeal on his horse; and seeing hisneighbours at strife about sheep andnone betwixt them, said he, Ah fools !will you never learn wit! Then helpme, continued he, to lay this sack uponmy shoulder ; they did so, and he wentto the side of the bridge and shook outthe meal into the river, saying, How4much meal is there in my sack, neigh¬bour ? Marry, said one, there is noneIndeed, replied this wise man, evenso much wit is there in your tw o headsto strive for that you have not. Nowwhich was the wisest of these three,1 leave thee to judge.TALE II.There was a man of Gotham that rodeto the market with two bushels ofwheat, and lest his horse should bedamaged by carrying too great a burdenhe was determined to carry the cornhimself, upon his own neck, and stillkept riding upon his horse till he arriv¬ed at the end of his journey. I willleave you to judge which was the wis¬est, his horse or himself.TALE III.On a time the men of Gotham fainwould have pinned in the cuckoo thatshe might sing all the year ; and in themidst of the town they had a hedgemade round in compass, and got a cuc¬koo and put her into it, and said. Singhere, and thou shalt lack neither meatnor drink all the year. The cuckoo,when she found herself encompassedby the hedge, flew away. A vengeanceon her, said these wise men, we did notmake our hedge high enough.TALE IV.There was a man of Gotham Whowent to Nottingham market to sellcheese; and going down the hill to Nott¬ingham bridge, one of his cheeses fellout of his wallet and ran down the hill.Whoreson, said the man, can you runto the market alone ? I’ll now send oneafter another. Then laying his w alletdown, and taking out the cheeses, hetumbled them down the hill one afteranother. Some ran into one bush andsome into another. IIe charged them,however, to meet him at the marketplace. The man went to the marketto meet the cheeses, and staying till themarket was almost over, then wont andG. ;i ii_: v; liis neighbours ii they sawais ehs&(-ss csome to the market P Why,wrho should bring them ? says one ;Marry, themselves, said the fellow,they knew the way very well. A ven¬geance on them, they ran so fast, Iwas afraid they would run beyond themarket; I am sure they are by thistime as far as York. So ne immedi¬ately rode to York, but was much dis¬appointed. And to add to it, he neverfound nor heard of one of his cheeses.TALE V.A man of Gotham bought, at Notting¬ham market, a trevet of bar iron ; andgoing home with it, his feet grew wearywith the carriage. He set it down, andseeing it had three feet, said, Whore¬son, thou hast three feet and I but two;thou shalt bear me home if thou wilt, sohe set himself down upon it, and said toit, bear me as long as I have done thee,for if thou dost not thou shalt standstill for me. The man of Gotham sawhis trevet would not move. Stand stillsaid he, in the Mayor's name, and fol¬low me if thou wilt, and I can shewvon the right way. When he wentliome, his wife asked where the trevetwas ? He said it had three legs, andliehad but two, and he had taught himthe ready way to his house, thereforehe might come himself if he would.Where did you leave the trevet ? saidthe woman. At Gotham bridge* saidhe. So she immediately ran and fetch¬ed the trevet herself; otherwise shemust have lost it on account of her hus¬band’s want of wit.TALE VI.A certain smith of Gotham had alarge wasp’s nest in the straw at theend of the forge* and there coming oneof his neighbours to have his horseshod, and the wasps being exceedingbusy, the man was stung by one ofthem. The man, being grievouslyaffronted, said, Are you worthy to keepa forge or not, to have men stung withthese wasps ? O neighbour, said thesmith. be content, anti I wiilput themfrom their nest presently. Immediate¬ly he took a coulter, and heated it redhot, and thnrst it into the straw at theend of his forge, and set it on fire, andburnt it up. Then, said the smith,I told thee I’d fire them out of theirnest.TALE VII.On Good Friday the men of Gothamconsulted together what to do withtheir white herrings, sprats, and saltfish, and agreed, that all such fishshould be cast into a pond or pool, inthe midst of the town, that the numberof them might increase the next year.Therefore every one that had any fishleft, did cast them immediately intothe pond. Then said one, I have got¬ten left so many red herrings. Well,said another, and I have left somany whitings. Another cried out, Ihave as yet gotten so many sprats left.And, said the last, I have gotten somany salt fishes, let them go together9in the great pond, without any distinc¬tion, and we may be sure to fare likelords the next year. At the beginingof the next Lent, they immediatelywent about drawing the pond, imagin¬ing they should have the fish, but weremuch surprised to find nothing hut agreat eel. Ah! said they, a mischief onthis eel, for he hath eaten up ourfish. What must we do with him ? saidone; chop him in pieces, said another.Nay, not so, said another, but let usdrown him. Be it accordingly so, re¬plied they all. So they went immedi¬ately to another pond, and cast the eelinto the water. Lay there, said thesewise men, and shift for thyself, sinceyou may not expect help from us.So they left the eel to be drowned.TALE VIf I.On a time the men of Gotham hadforgotten to pay their rents to theirlandlord ; so one said the other, to-mor¬row must he pay-day, by whom canwe send our money ? So one said, Ihave this day taken a hare, and shemay carry it, for she is very quick foot¬ed ; be it so, replied the rest; she shallhave a letter, and a purse to put ourmoney in, and we can direct her theway. When the letter was writtenand the money put into a purse, theytied them about the hare’s neck, say¬ing, You must first go to Loughbo¬rough, and then to Leicester, and atNewark is our landlord ; then com¬mend us to him, and there is his due.The hare, as soon as she got out oftheir hands, ran quite a contrary way.—Some said, Thou must first go toLoughborough ; others said, Let thehare alone, for she can tell a nearerway than the best of us ; let her go.TALE IX.A man of Gotham, that went mowingin the meadow, found a large grasshop¬per. He instantly threw down hisscythe, and ran home to his neighbour,and said that the devil was at weak inthe field, and was hopping among thegrass. Then was every man readywith their clubs, starts, halberts,, andother weapons, to kill the grasshopper.When they came to the place wherethe grasshopper was, said one to theother, let every man cross himselffrom the devil, for we will not meddlewith him. So they returned again,and said. We are blest this day thatwe went no farther. O ye cowards !said he that left the scythe in the mea¬dow, help me to fetch my scythe. No,answered they, it is good to sleep in awhole skin. It is much better for theeto lose thy scythe than to mar us all.TALE X.On a certain time there were twelvemen of Gotham that went to fish ;some waded in the water, and somestood on dry land. In going homeone said to the other, we nave ventur¬ed wonderfully in wading, I pray Godthat none of us did come from hometo l>e drowned. Nay, marry, said oneto the other, let us see that, for theredid twelve of ivs come out. Then theytold themselves, and every one told e-leven. Said the one to the other, thereis otie of us drowned. They thenwent back to the brook, where they’dbeen fishing, and sought up and downfor him that was drowned, makinggreat lamentation. A courtier comingby, asked what it was they sought for,and why they were sorrowful. Oh,said they, this day we went to fish inthe brook; twelve of us came out to¬gether, and one is drowned. 'Thecourtier said, tell how many there beof you. One of them told eleven, buthe did not tell himself. Well, saidthe courtier, what will you give meand I will find the twelfth man ? Allthe money we have got, said they.Give me the money, said be. Hebegan with the first, and gave him astroke over the shoulders with hiswhip, that made him groan, saying,here is one, and so he served themall, and they groaned at the mat¬ter. When he came to the last, hepaid him well, saying, here is thewelf'th man. God’s blessings on thee,said they, for finding our brother.TALE XI.A MAN of Gotham, riding along thehighway, saw a cheese, so drew hissword and pricked it with the point, inorder to pick it up. Another manwho came by, alighted, picked it up,and rode away w ith it. The man ofGotham rides to Nottingham to buy along sword to pick up the cheese, andreturning to the place where it did lie,he pulled out his sword, pricked theground, and said, if I had had butthis sword l should have had thecheese myself, but now another hascome before me and got it.TALE XII.A MAN in Gotham, that did not lovehis wife, and she having fair hair, hesaid divers times he Yvould cut it off,but durst not do it when she wasawake, so he resolved to do it when14s^ie was asleep ; therefore, one night hetook a pair of shears and put them un¬der his pillow, which his wife perceiv¬ing, said to her maid, go to bed to myhusband, to-night, for he intends to cutoff my hair; let him cut off' thy hair,and I will give thee as good a kirtle asever thou didst see. The maid did so,and feigned herself asleep, which theman perceiving, cut off her hair, wrapp¬ed it about the shears, and, laying themunder the pillow, fell asleep. Themaid arose, and the wife took the hairand shears, and went to the hall andburnt the hair. The man had a finehorse that lie loved, and the goodwifewent into the stable, cut off the hairof the horse’s tail, wrapped the shearsup in it, and laid them under thepillow again.—Her husband, seeingher combing her head in the morn¬ing, marvelled thereat. The girl, see¬ing her master in a deep study, said,What ails the horse in the stable, hehas lost his tail ? The man ran intothe stable, and found the horse’s tailwas cut off*; then going to the bed,15lie found the shears wrapped up inhis horse’s tail. He then went tohis wife, saying; I crave thy mercy,for 1 intended to cut off thy hair,but I have cut off my own horsestail. Yea. said she, self do self have.Many men think to do a bad turn,but it turneth oft times to them¬selves.TALE XIII.A man of Gotham laid his wife a wa¬ger that she could not make him acuckold. No ! said she, but l can.Do not spare me, said he, but do whatyou can. On a time she had hid allthe spigots and faucets, and going in¬to the buttery, set a barrel of broach,and cried to tier spouse, Pray, bringme a spigot and faucet, or else the alewill all run out. Ho sought up anddown, but could not find one. Comehere then, said she, and put thy fin¬ger in the tap-hole. Then she calleda tailor with whom she made a bar¬gain. Soon after she came to her bus-moand, and brought a spigot and a fau¬cet, saying, Pull thy finger out of thetap-hole, good cuckold. Beshrew yourheart for your trouble, said she, makeno such bargain with me again.TALE XIV.4 man of Gotham took a young buz¬zard, and invited four or five gentle¬men’s servants to the eating of it; butthe wife killed an old goose, and sheand two of her gossips ate up the buz¬zard, and the old goose was laid tothe fire for the gentlemen’s servants.So when they came the goose was setbefore them. What is this ? said oneof them. The goodman said, a curi¬ous buzzard. A buzzard ! why, it isan old goose, and thou art a knave tomock us, and so departed in great an¬ger. The fellow was sorry that he hadaffronted them, and took a bag andput the buzzard’s feather’s in it ; buthis wife desired him, before he went,to fetch a block of wood, and in theinterim she pulled out the buzzard’s17feathers, ami put in the goose’s. Theman, taking the bag, went to the gen¬tlemen’s servants, and said. Pray, benot angry with me, _you shall see 1had a buzzard, for here be the feathers.Then he opened the bag, and tookout the goose’s feathers; upon whichone of them took a cudgel, and gavehim a dozen of stripes, saying, Why,you knave, could you not be contentto mock us at home, but you are comehere to mock us also.TALE XV.A man’s wife of Gotham was broughtto bed of a male child, and the fatherinvited the gossips, who were childrenof eight or ten years of age. The eld¬est child’s name was Gilbert, the se¬cond’s name was Humphrey, and thegodmother was called Christabel.Their relations admonished them di¬vers times, that they must all say afterthe parson. And when they werecome to church, the priest said. Be youall agreed of the name? Gilbert, Hum-phivy, and Christabel, said the same.The priest then said, Wherefore cameyou hither ? They immediately saidthe same. The priest being amazed,could not tell what to say, but whis¬tled and said Whey, and so did they.The priest being angry, said. Go home,you fools, go home. Then Gilbert,Humphrey, and Christabel, did thesame. The priest then provided god¬fathers and god-mothers himself.TALE XVI.A young man of Gotham went a woo¬ing a fair maid : his mother warnedhim before-hand, saying, whenever youlook at her, cast a sheep’s eye at her,and say. How dost thou my sweet Pig¬my ? The fellow went to a butcher andbought seven or eight sheep eyes. Andwhen this lusty wooer was at dinner,he would look upon the fair wench, andcast in her face a sheep's eye, saying.How dost thou do, my sweet Pigmy ?How I do, said the wench ; Swine’sface, what do you mean by casting ai9 .sheep’s eye at me r’ O! sweet Ihginy^have at thee with another. I defy theeSwine’s face, said the wench. Whatmy sweet old Pigmy, be content, forif you live till next year you will be afoul sow. Walk, knave, walk, said she,for if you live till next year you will bea fool.TALE XVII.There was a man of Gotham whowould be married, and when the dayof marriage was come, they went tochurch. The priest said, Do you sayafter me. The man said, Do you sayafter me. The priest said Say not afterme such like, but say what I shall tellyou ; thou dost play the fool to mockthe holy Scriptures concerning matri¬mony, The fellow said, Thou dostplay the fool to mock the holy Scrip¬tures concerning matrimony. Thepriest wist not what to say, but answer¬ed, What shall I do with this fool ? andthe man said, What shall I do with thi$fool ? So the priost took his leave, andwould not many them. The man wasinstructed hy others how to do, andwas afterwards married. And thus thebreed of the Gothamites has been per¬petuated even unto this day.TALE XVIU.There was a Scotsman who dwelt aGotham, and he took a house a littledistance from London, and turned itinto an inn, and for his sign he wouldhave a boar’s, head accordingly he wentto a carver, and said, Can you make mea bare head P Yes, said the carver.Then said he, make me abare head, andthou’se hae twenty shillings for thy hireI will do it, said the carver, on St An¬drew’s day, before Christmas, (calledYule in Scotland,) the Scot came toLondon for his hoar’s head. I say,speak, said the Scotsman, hast thoumade me a bare head P Yes, said thecarver. He went and brought a man'shead of wood that was bare, and said,21bare bead ! Yes, said the carver. Isay, said the Scotsman, I will have abare bead like the head that follows asow with gryces. What, whoreson,know you not a sow that will greet andgroan and cry a-week, a-week. What,said the carver, do you mean a pig !Yes, said the Scotsman, let me haveher head made of timber, and set onher a scalp, and let her sing—Whipwhire. The carver said he could not.You whoreson, said he, gar her as she’dsing whip whire.TALE XIX.In' old times, during these tales, thewives of Gotham were got into an ale¬house, and said they were all profitableto their husbands. Which w ay, goodgossips ! said the ale-wile. The firstsaid, 1 will tell you all, good gossipsI cannot brew nor bake, therefore Iam every day alike, and go to the ale¬house because I cannot go to church;and in the alehouse 1 pray to God tospeed my husband, and 1 am sure my22prayers will do him more good than mrlabour. Then said the second, 1 amprofitable to my husband in saving ofcandle in winter, for 1 cause my hus¬band and all my people to go to bed byday-light and rise by day-Tight. Thethird said, I am profitable in sparingbread, for I drink a gallon of ale, andI care not much for meat. The fourthsaid, I am loath to spend meat anddrink at home, so I go to the tavern atNottingham and drink wine, and suchother things as God sends me there.The fifth said, A man will ever havemore company in another s house thanhis own, and most commonly in theale-house. The sixth said, My hus¬band has flax and wool to spare, if Igo to other folk’s houses to do theirwork. The seventh said, I spare myhusband’s wood and clothes, and sit allday talking at other folks’ fires, 'Fliceighth said. Beef, mutton, and porkare dear, I therefore take pigs, chick¬ens, conies, and capons, being of a les-' iser price. The ninth said, I spare myhusband’s soap, for instead of washingmiee a week, 1 wash but once a quar¬ter. Then said the ale-wife, T keepall my husband’s ale from souring; foras I was wont to drink it almost up,now I never leave a drop.TALE XXOn Ash Wednesday, the minister ofGotham would have a collection fromhis parishioners, and said unto them,My friends, the time is come that youmust use prayer, fasting, and alms, butcome ye to shrift, I will tell you moreof my mind. But as for prayer, Idon’t think that two men in the parishcan say their Paternoster. As for fast¬ing, ye fast still, for ye have not a goodmeal’s meat in the year. As for aim-deeds, what should they give that havenothing ? In Lent you must refrainfrom drunkenness and abstain fromdrink. No not so, said one fellow, forit is an old proverb, that fish shouldswim. Yes, said the priest, they mustswim in the water. I crave thy mercy,quoth the fellow, I thought it should24have swam in fine ale, for 1 have beentold so . Soon af ter the men of Gothamcame to shrift and being seven, theli' icst knew not what penance to give4.He said, if I enjoin yon to pray, youcannot say your Paternoster. And itis but folly to make you fast, becauseyou never eat a meal’s meat. Labourhard and get a dinner on Sunday, and1 will partake of it. Another man heenjoined to fare well on Monday, andanother on Tuesday,, and another onWednesday, and so on one after an¬other, that one or other should fare wellonce in the week that he might havepart of their meat, on every day duringthe week. Aftd as for your aim-deeds,Jbhe priest said, ye he but beggars all,uxeept one or. two, therefore bestowyour aims oil yourselves.Fl A is.hfemL h hfS i ’y/d