The land of the Thistle.NO THING AT ALL.TOM BOWLING,ANDEDINBURGH.PHlNTtD FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,1817.THE LAND OF THE THISTLE,Tvw...JHack Jock.You may talk of the land that gave Patrick hisfame,The land of the Ocean and Anglean Name,With the red blushing roses and Shamrock sogreen,For dearer to me are the hills of the north,'1 he land of blue mountains, the birth-place ofworth,Those hills where freedom has plac'd her abode, ;And those wide spreading glens where no slaveever trode.Where grows the red heatherAnd Thistle so green.Though rich be the soil where blossoms the rose'And bleak are our mountains and tovered withsnows, [greenWhere grows the red heather and Thistle so IYet, for friendship sincere, and for loyalty true,And for courage so bold, that ne’er foe could ]subdue,Unmatched is our country, unrivall’d our swains'And lovely and true are the Nymphs on our >3Where grows the red head ierAnd Thistle so green.’ar famed are our sires in the bat ties of yore,Vnd many a cairney does rise on c "ir shore,Ver the foes that invaded the This, tie So green,\nd many a cairney shall rise o’er t 'ur strand,ihould the torrent of war ever pot ir o’er ourland,|?or, let foe come on foe, like wave u) ooh wave,IVe’Jl give them a welcome, we’ll giv e them agrave,Beneath the red heatherAnd Thistle so green.>h! dear to our souls are these blessl *gs oiheaven,frhat land which we boast of—that land whichwe live in,TThe land of the Thistle—the thistle so g T^en,IFor that land, and that freedom our forefa therebled, £sh, edAnd we swear by the blood that our fathers ^aveThat no foot of a foe shall e’er tread on tgrave» [[the bravtBut the Thistle shall blossom o'er the bedThe Thistle of ScotlandThe Thistle so green.heirOfN, IVjyv Down I) lie whe > 1 wanted a mate,?   ':'i t.idriv a c« uning t K re,- aiic- iny h;' i.<ay clothes- " 1 ' V p'ckt Ia crur'in^ I es;e: iv r "'i-oi-t and n.y bo.- in was hot, 'r! •' •*' r. ’ v nr.-jc in a r.-.f;; ^ ;i:*d ovi g wish Ik 1(1 V and 1 said no-'.e: .,i a I.!Jur foi dc so1.’ i d-v .r f Hi-r: andr ■fyi'’i*; a^d,-rf»b!>^..4|'ap1v'.WTf.he'.- r., . v * ,huh'Si,: • vtNow i. was i i.sJ in. as t a , i{ -j : , *Aud KLiay, fK^ r scui Wats ss :> ' ■ . : fSo l bow d, and she grin‘i‘o.aiidJ ir;' ;.l;i a‘Then I.sniil d scratch'd my head, aud said no¬thing at ai|. • . 'i : But for de roL 'If bashful was 1 no less bashful th.e maid,She simper'd, aud toy'd with her apfou stringPlard» - [done,Till the old folks impatient to have the thing5Agreed little Kitty and 1 should be one.In sdence we young folks, soon nodded consent,Hand in hand to the church tb be married wewent; . [small.Where we answered the parson in voices soLove, honor, obey and a— ;oth!ng at all|'But fol de rol.But mark what a ch mge in the course of a week.Our te left off blu-hing I bold y Could speak,Could play with ny dearie, lau'gh loud at a je.^t,S ie cou 1 c > ix too and fondly, as welt as tnebest;Ashinrrf-hVf past fo*lies, we often decfaf’d 'To i iC3u. toe young folxs wno at wedlotk are'.c r’d,F >t f > ce m their aid :s‘j'’ne‘a>stfta'x^FhAy callYou tfry* k:s's aiicf be ftiaifned,. ahti' *at ai,, dc > bid A [ b'-.ryT nh .Bat-fofde rof; !I OM B 1 VLING.? sheer huiic i;e».p^of Tom Bow’tng,The dartrhg if flUr 'Non; ‘*he’li hear the-rerhpes': hoCvti'fig,-For death has brought him to: ' • •His form was of the manliest beautr, .; ■His heart was kind and soft,6Faithful below he did his duty.But now he’s gone aloft.Tom never from his word departed.His virtues were so rare,His friends were many and true hearted,His Poll was kind and fair.And then he’d sing so blythe and jolly;Ah! many’s the time and oft;But mirth is turn’d to melancholy,For Tom is gone aloft.Yet shall poor Tom find pleasant weather,When HE who all commands.Shall give to call life’s crew together.The word to pipe all hands,Thus death, who kings and tars dispatches,In vain Tom’s life had doff’d,For tho’ his body’s under hatches.His soul is gone aloft.JOCKEY TO THE FAIR.’Twas on the morn of sweet May-day,When nature painted all things gay,Taught birds to sing and lambs to play,To hail the meadows fair;Young Jockey early in the dawn,Arose and tript it o’er the lawn.7Kis Sunday's coat the youth put on,For Jenny vow’d away she’d run.With Jockey to the fair, the fair, 'With Jockey to' the fair.(The cheerfhl parish-bells had rung.With eager step's he trudg’d along,A dow ry garland round him hung.Which shepherds us’d tb -wear*,He tipp’d •’he- window haste my dear,Jenny impatient cry’d. Who’s there?*Tis I, my love there's no one near,| Step gently down, thefe’s bought to fear,With Jockey to the fair, &c.My dad and mam are fast asleep,My brother’s out and with the sheep,But will you stilj your promise keep.Which I have heard you swear;And will you ever constant prove,I wid by all the pow’rs above.I’ll ne’er deceive my charming dove.Dispel these doubts, and haste my love.With Jockey to the fair, &c.Behold the ring, the shepherd cry’d.Will Jenny be my constant bride.May Cupid be our happy guide.And Hymen to the fair;Then Jockey did his vows renew.He would be constant and be tfue,8His word he pledg’d— away she flew,O’er cowslips dip'd in balmy .dew,With Jockey to the fair, &c.With joy they met the jocund throng,Their gay companipn^blyfhe and young,Each join’d the dance, each join’d the song,.To hail the happy fairjThere’s none return’d so blythe as they,They bless’d^he kind propitious day.The smiling morn pf sweet May-day,When lovely Jenny ran away,With Jockey to the fair.rmis.