CONTAJNIKQTHE INTERPRETATIONGEEAT YAEIETY OF DEEA1SGLASGOW:FEINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLEBS*7 S ** '( OF SCOTLANDTinsGOLDEN DREAMER.AIR.To dream of the atmosphere, has a variety of in*terpretations, and depends entirely on the differentappearances it has. If you dream the sky is clear,of a fine blue, calm and serene, then it is a goodomen; you will be successful in your enterprises:if you are soliciting anyplace of preferment, you willsurely obtain it,—if you are in love, you will surelymarry the object of your affections,—have you alaw-suit ? you will gain it,—are you in trade ? itwill flourish and be profitable,—are you a farmer ?good crops will attend you, your cattle will increase,your pigs and poultry will be abundant, your com¬modities will fetch a good price at the market,—are you married ? you will have many children, andthey will be dutiful and do well,—are you about toundertake a journey ? it will answer your utmostexpectations,—are you going to sea ? you will havea pleasant and prosperous voyage,—are you in debt ?you will speedily be enabled to extricate yourself fromit,—are you in prison ? you will shortly be set atliberty. To dream that it is full of thick, dark,and heavy clouds, is an unfavourable token,—youwill fall sick, and perhaps die,—disappointmentswill attend your business.Adultery. To dream of the committing of thissin, forebodes great troubles and misfortunes,—ifyou are in love, you will certainly fail in marrying8the object of your wishes,-—if you have a lawsuit,it •^vil certainly go against you, by tha treachery o#those who pretend to ba yojr friends,—if you arvin business, some heavy loss will happen to yonSuch a dream announces that you are in great dangeiof losing your liberty,—and if you are about toundertake a voyage to sea, omit it for the present,(for you will never reach the destined port. Toidream you are tempted to commit this crime, andIthat you resist it, it is a happy omen,—every thing1 ijfrii- flourish with you,—be sure it is a good time toi (begin trade after such a dream,—if you have a law-liisuit, all will go on in your favour, with credit toi yourself, and confusion, to your opponents,—if youire about to undertake a long journey, it will betii»leasant and successful to your object,—if you are(iipring to sea, you will have an agreeable voyage,n beautiful weather, and a quick arrival at the portf destination,—if you are in love, do not desist(js pressing the object of your wishes, for they willo g7''*;fied.A-ppanl. No ng more demonstrates tne eventsmt are about to happen you, than dreaming ofrearing apparel; but almost every colour has aifferent interpret tion, and much depends on itsappearing new or old, its fitting you, or being toofg or too little. We shall here explain them ac->rding to their different significations. To dream>u are dressed in white, is a sure token of successthe first object ’ on undertake, and that you willi successful in love, and that your sweetheart is ofgood temper ant amiable disposition. To drare dressed in green, denotes that you are4dream you are, dressed in llac!:, is an unlucky omensome quarrel is about to happen between you and ,•iriend or relation; sickness is about to attend yoiand your family; death will deprive you of 8omj|inear friend or relation; law-suits will perplex awharass you—if you undertake a journey, it will-.unsuccessful, and contribute much to injure yohealth and fortune—if you are in love, it denotthat your sweetheart is very unhappy, and that siciness will attend her,—if you are a farmer, you wLbe cheated by some knave, and your crops will turout indifferent; the murrain will attack your cattleand some dreadful accident will happen by the overturn of one of your waggons,—if you are in businesssome one will arrest you, and you will have grerdifficulty in settling the matter. To dream you ardressed in blue, denotes happiness; you will short!be invited to some banquet or merry making, whe [you will make some friends and be very happy, if yoonly avoid quarrelling, which some enemy to your we. bfare will endeavour to excite you to do,—your swee bheart is by this colour denoted to be very faithful t ,Vyou, and will make you very happy and comfortable Iyou will have many children, chiefly boys, who wi 1turnout honest and good,—if you are in trade you wiprosper. If you dream you are dressed in scarltyou are thereby warned of some very heavy calamiland A severe fit of illness—your sweetheart is by Iannounced to you to bo of a turbulent dispositfoi iimuch inclined to dispute about trifles, and liable 1 |-raake you very unhappy,—your children will B 1short-lived and of very unhappy tempers, much iiclined to be very sickly,—it surely denotes a quarr i,and loss of friends. To dream you are dressedyeUow, ia rather lucky than otherwise, your awes-il6neart by it appears to be very jealous of ywo, andi;reat pains will be requisite to prevent your separ-: iiting—if you are married, keep a good look out,or some one is about to alienate tbs affections of yourpartner—in trade it promises prosperity; but someme will cheat you of a trifle not of much conse-uence—if you are a farmer, you will have ani bundant crop—if you undertake a voyage by eea,Itiou will be greatly the gainer by it; and if youqxpect any place of preferment, after much troublea will attain it. To dream you are dressed inmson, denotes that the dreamer will live to a goodl age, and will be neither fortunate or unfortunate■ough life : you are about to experience some verylasant news from a distant quarter, and from thoseu thought dead. Your sweetheart will be obligedleave you, but will continue faithful to you—ifa are in trade, you will experience some loss by arson that you had great confidence in, but you will,nearly the same time, get a job that will amplyf ike you amends—it denotes a small dispute be-een a landlord and his tenant, which will be set-d amicably to the advantage of the latter. To;am you are dressed in a variety of colours, de«tes a variety of fortunes are about to attend you ;l friends will desert you, new ones will supplysir place—if you are in love, a quarrel will takeice between you and your sweetheart, which will,er much uneasiness to both parties, be adjustedfriends—be cautious in what you do for someae, for many traps will be laid to ensnare you,t on no account trust yourself on the water; re-ions will shortly die, and if you have any chii-Bn, sickness will attend them—if you are sick at9 time of the dream, it denotes a happy and speedyrciioffcry* To dream you ere fashionably dratiand in good company, is very good for the dream¬er ; he will rise considerably above his present con¬dition—your sweetheart will prefer you aboveothers, and be very good tempered; whatever youundertake will have a prosperous issue, and some;:unexpected news of an agreeable nature will reach 'you—expect to see a long absent friend return in'good circumstances; but avoid having a dispute]with any one, for it will go against you and doharm, particularly if it be with your sweetheart.To dream you are dressed shabbily, that your clothesare ragged and torn, is a bad omen.Asses. To dream you are riding on an ass, isthe forerunner of some foolish quarrel in which youiwill be much in the wrong, and condemned by your.:friends—if you are in love, it denotes that somemisunderstanding will happen between you and1your sweetheart, in which you will be much in fault;—if you are in business, it foretells that you willmake some foolish bargain. To dream you arejidriving an ass, denotes that you will fall into some ’trouble, of which you will get the better, and thatyou will be relieved from present embarrassments,.—if you are in love, it denotes that some quarrelwill take place betwixt your sweetheart and yourself, which will soon be made up again to your ad¬vantage. To dream an ass runs after you, denotes)that some slander will be raised against you by som«foolish person, who will become themselves the vic¬tims of the scandal raised against you.Acquaintance. To dream you quarrel or fightwith an aquaintance, it is an unlucky omen, itforebodes a division among your own family, muchto the injury and prejudice of the dreamer—if youfers in lava, year mistress will prove unfaithfiil, andmarry some other man that she has told you shemost hates,—if you are in business, some heavy losswill befall you; you will disagree with some of yourbest friends on the most trivial matters, which willend in an open rupture,—if you are a farmer, expecta bad crop, the murrain amongst your cattle;that your pigs and poultry will fail and not fe*chgood prices,—if you have a lawsuit, depend thatyour attorney will neglect you, that your witnesseswill be tardy and backward, and that finally youwill lose your cause. Do not for sometime under¬take a journey by land, or a voyage by sea; enterfor the present into no new undertaking, for youwill be unsuccessful; quit, if you can, your presentplace of residence; and, above all, avoid lendingmoney, for you will surely lose it together with thefriendship of those to whom you lend it. If youdream that you are with an acquaintance at someplace of public amusement, you may expect soon tobe called from home on business of importance.Dancing. To dream you are dancing at a ball,wake, or entertainment, foretells that you will shortlyreceive some joyful news from an absent friend,and that you are about to inherit some unexpectedlegacy; it foretells success and happiness in love; thatyour sweetheart is kind and true, and will makeyou very happy in marriage; to the sailor it denotesa pleasant and successful voyage; increase of chil¬dren to married persons, and of business to thosein trade.Devil. To dream of this professed enemy to thehuman race denotes that many dangers will threatenyou, all of which you will overcome; it foretells of alawsuit, in which your adversary will endeavour**jcretly to undermine you, neverthelesa you willget the better of him, and put him to shame; if youare in love, it forebodes that some one is endeavouringto alienate the affections of your sweetheart, but willbe unsuccessful; to the tradesman it denotes a gooddeal of business, attended with many troubles; tothe poor it denotes good employment; and to thesailor, a wife with a great sum of money.Death. To dream you see this grim lookingbundle of bones, denotes happiness and long life;and you will be either speedily married yourself,or else assist at a wedding. To dream that you aredead, also denotes a speedy marriage, and that youwill be successful in all your undertakings; to thosethat are married it foretells young children, and thatthey •will be dutiful, and give you great comfort.To dream you sea another person dead, denotes illusage from friends; if you are in love, your sweet¬heart will prove false; if you are a farmer you willlose money by hcrses, and be way-laid as you returnfrom market.Doga. To dream of these domestic and faithfulanimals, has very different significations, accordingto the manner in which you see them,—if they fawnand fondle upon you, then it is a lucky omen; if youhave had a quarrel with a friend or sweetheart,it will be reconciled to your advantage; if you arein love, your sweetheart will marry you, and ren¬der you very happy; it denotes health, riches andhonour: if they are barking and snarling at you,then depend that enemies are secretly endeavouringto destroy your reputation and happiness; if youare in love, be careful of your present sweetheart;if you marry him or her, you will be unhappy andpoor; if you dream they bite you, then it is a csr-111 tain prognostic that you will experience borne loss;if you are in love, your sweetheart will deceive you' and make you veny unhappy.Drowning. To dream you are drowning, or thati you see another drowned or drowning, portends> good to the dreamer, and denotes that he will escapef many difficulties, settle near his native place, many,have children, and become happy and rich: to thelover it denotes that your sweetheart is good tem-i > pered and inclined to marry you. If you are a sailor; ;it foretells a favourable and a pleasant voyage.Ealing. To dream you are eating, is a veryunfavourable omen; it portends disunion amongi your family, losses in trade and disappointment int love—storms and shipwreck by sea. To dream youiisee others eating, is of a contrary tendency, and3 foretells success in all your present enterprises; ifyou marry the present object of your affections, thatyou will grow rich, bo happy, and have dutifulchildren.Eyes. To dream you lose your eyes is a veryunfavourable omen; it denotes decay of circumstan-: ces, less of friends, death of relations, and miscar¬riage in love—If a woman with child dreams of it,l it denotes that the child in her womb will be very’ unhappy, and before it arrives at years of maturity,lose its liberty.Feasting. To dream you are at a feast, denotesthat you will meet with many disappointments,particularly in the thing which you are moat ar.zi-il| ous about: it love it forebodes much uneasiness3( between sweethearts; and to them who are mar-i' vied, it foretells undutiful children, with many heavylosses.Fall To dream you fall from any high place*10or from a trea, denotes loss of place and goods,-~ifyon are in love, it surely indicates that you willnever marry the present object of your atlactiona.To the tradesman, it dssotes decline of business;and to the sfiior storms and ship wreck.Fighting. To dream you are fighting, denotesto the lover that you will loss the object of youraffections through a toolish quarrel: it abo forebodesmuch opposition to your wishes, with loss of char¬acter and property. After such a dream I wouldadvise the dreamer to quit his present situation,because such a dream indicates that you will notprosper in it; to the sailor it denotes storms andshipwreck, with disappointment in love.Fire. To dream of the subtle elements, denoteshealth and happiness to the lover, marriage withthe object of your affections, and many children: italso denotes that you will be very angry with someone on a trifling occasion. To dream you see burn-fng lights descending, as it were from heaven, is avery bsd sign indeed; it portends some dreadfulaccident to the dreamer, such as being hanged, los¬ing your head, having your brains dashed out,breaking your legs, getting into prison, or otherstrange accidents.Flying. To dream you are flying, is a very ancellent omen 5 it foretells elevation of fortune, thatyou will arrive at dignity in the ctate, and be hap-py. If you are in love, your sweetheart will betrue to you, and if you marry you will have manychildren.Fortune. To dream you make a sudden fortnn*is a very bad omen; to the tradesman it denoteslosses in trade, quarrelling with his creditors, and}oes of liberty ; to the lover it denotes that youriweethoart does not return your love; to the Bailorit indicates storms and shipwrecks.Friend. To dream you see a friend dead, hc-okens hasty news, of a joyous nature; if you aren love, it foretells a speedy marriage with the object>f your affections.Fruit. To dream of fruit, has different inter¬pretations, according to what the fruit is that you; iream of. Apples betoken long life and success;; boy to a woman with child; cheerfulness in youriweetheart, and riches by trade.—Cherries indicateiisappointment in love, vexation in the marriagatote, and slight in love.—Figs are the forerunnersF prosperity and happiness,—to the lover theyisnote the accomplishment of your wishes,—to the/adesman, increase of trade,—they are also indica¬te of a legacy.—Gooseberries indicate manyliildren, chiefly sons, and an accomplishment ofspur present pursuits;—to the sailor they declarelingers in his next voyage,—to the maiden a rov-g husband; and to the man a rakish wife.—iiluts, if you see clusters of them, denote riches and(j.ppiness, to the lover success and a good temperedu eetheart—if you are gathering of them, it is neto^good omen, for yo j will pursue some matter thatt i ill not turn out to your advantage; if you cradFjem, the person who courts you, or to whom yotfly your addressee, will treat you with indifference,d be very urffaithfhl.—Oranges are very ha/m ens; they for‘bode loss of goods and reputationStocks from thieves, wounds, and fickleness in the;Ct4»iect of your r.Sections.—Pears prefigure elevatioj•f I life, accum’fiation of riches and honour, success.)'( undertakings and constancy in love. It a v. u-» with child dreams of them she will Lf.vs a£?rl who will marry on® far above her rank beforashe is geventeen—Strawb rries denote to womenwith child a good time, and a boy; to a maiden;speedy marriage with a man who will b come rich,mid make her happy; to a youth, they denote thathis wife will be sweet tempered, and bring him ‘ jmany children, all boys; they foretell riches to the* Jtradesman and the sailor.Gallows. To dream of the gallows is a most ' Jfortunate omen; it shows that the dreamer will jbecome rich, and arrive at great honours; to the Jlover it shows the con ummation of his most san- ‘ [guina wishes; for a woman with child to dream ofthe gallows, signifies that she is pmegnant of a son,will have a good time, and that the fruit of her wombwill become very rich.Gifts. To dream you have any thing given toyou, is a sign that some good is about to happen toyou; it also denotes that a speedy marriage willtake place betwixt you and your sweetheart..Grave. To dream you see a grave, foretells sick¬ness and disappointment,—if your are in love, dependyou will never marry your present sweetheart; ifyou go into the grave, it shows you will experiencea loss of property, and that false friends will defameyou,—if you come out of the ^rave, it denotes suc¬cess in your undertakings, that you will rise in the i|world and become very rich ; aod if you are in love,,that you will speedily narry your sweetheart,—ifyou take another out of the grave, you will be theimeans of saving the life of a person, who will he avery great friend to you, and receive some unexpect¬ed legacy.Hanged. To dream you see p\1opie hanged, onyou are going <o be handged yourself, denote*!kiit:184‘■“'•'II- |*1.'3!t'j|n3dMAMat you will rise above your present condition bymarriage.Hills. To dream of travelling over steep bills,shows that you will encounter many difficulties,and enter upon eorue arduous undertaking: if youdescend the hill hastily you will get the better ofall your difficulties and enemies, and become rich;to the lover it shows rivals, who will give great un¬easiness.House. To dream of building a house Is a veryfavourable omen; if you are in trade it denotessuccess—if in love, that your sweetheart is goodtempered and faithful, and will make you veryhappy. To dream your house is burnt down, denotesmuch trouble and many difficulties, with the loss ofgoods and reputation. To dream you see yourhouse on fire, foretells hasty news, and that you willlose a near relation.Hunting. To dream you are hunting fox, andthat he is killed, shows much trouble through thepretensions of false friends, but that you will discoverthem and overcome all their machinations—if youare hunting a bare, it is indicative of bad success:yon will be disappointed in your favourite object,be what it may—hunting a stag, if he is caughtalive, denotes good to the dreamer, and that he willbe successful in all his present undertakings.Keys. To dream of keys, is favourable to aperson in trade—and to a sailor they denote somegift, and the dreamer will become rich. To dreamyou lose a key foreshows anger, and that you willlose a friend. To dream of finding a key, denotesan addition to your estate. If you are maiided, italso foretells the birth of a child: if you give an¬other key, you will be speedily married; in love14keys betoken faith fulness, and a good temperedsweetheart.Knives. To dream of knives is a very unpro-pitioua omen; it betokens lawsuits, poverty, dis¬grace, strife, and a general failure in the pursuit ofyour projects; in love it denotes a happy marriagewith the object of your affections, and that you willbecome, by industry, rich, and settle your childrenhappy.Letters. To dream of receiving letters, is de¬monstrative of your being beloved by a person ofthe opposite sex, who is very much your friend,and will do all in their power to render you happy.To dream of writing letters, shows success in enter¬prises, and that you will receive some very pleasantnews.Light. To dream you see a great light is ahappy presage, it denotes that you will attain togreat honours and become very rich,—in love itshows a sweetheart cf an amiable disposition, thatyou will marry well, have children, and be veryhappy,—-if the light disappears all of a sudden, itbetokens a great change in your present situation,much for the worse, it portends imprisonment, andloss of goods, with unexpected misfortunes.Linen. To dream you are dressed in clean linen,denotes that you will shortly receive some gladtidings,—that your sweetheart is faithful, and willmany you,—that you will be successful in all yourpresent undertakings, and that you will receive ahandsome present from an agreeable youth,—if yourlinen is chequered, you will get a legacy from somefriend, and marry a vary industrious person,—if itis dirty, then it denotes poverty, a prison, and disap¬pointment in love, with the loss of something valuable.13!Marrtags. To dream you are married, is ora*inous of death, and very unfavourable to the dreamer; it denotes poverty, a prison, and misfortunes.To dream you assist at a wedding is the forerunnerof some pleasant news, and great success. Todream of lying with your newly married husbandor wife threatens danger or sudden misfortunes,and also that you will lose a part of your property.To the sailor it augurs storms and shipwrecks, witha narrow escape from death.Mil/c. To dream you are selling milk, denotesthat you will be crossed in love, that you will beunsuccessful in trade. To dream your are drinkingof milk, is the forerunner of joyful news and greatsuccess: if you are giving milk away, it shows youwill be successful in love, and marry happily, havechildren, and do very well. To see milk flowingfrom the breast of a woman, denotes success intrade, and in love, that you will have many children,and that they will become rich by the industry oftheir parents.Mother. To dream you see your mother, is ali certain prognostic of some agreeable adventureii being about to happen to you, and that you williihear from a friend at a distance. To dream you^see your mother dead forebodes trouble and adver-isity, and that you will become very poor.Music. To dream you hear delicious music, isa very favourable omen; it denotes joyful news froma long absent friend,—to married people, it denotesi sweet tempered children,—in love, it shows thatyour sweetheart is very fond of you, is good tem-jpered, sincere and constant. Rough and discor¬dant music foretells trouble, vexation, aadt diasp-Ipomfmenl.16Nails. To dream your nails are growing longis very good, and denotes riches, prosperity, andhappiness, great success in love, a good, industri¬ous husband or wife, with dutiful children,—it alsoforetells that you will suddenly receive a sum of moneythat will be of great use to you.Nightingale. To dream of this pretty warbler,is the forerunner of joyful news, great success inbusiness, of plentiful crops, and of a sweet tem¬pered lover. For a married ■woman to dream of anightingale, shows that she will have children whowill be great singers.Old Women. For a man to dream he is court¬ing an old woman, and that she returns his love,is a very fortunate omen; it prefigures success inworldly concerns,—that he will marry a beautifulyoung woman, Lave lovely children, and be veryhappy.Onions. To dream cf this useful vegetable de¬notes a mixture of good and bad luck,—if you areeating them, you will receive some money, recoversome lost or stolen things, or discover some hiddentreasure; your sweetheart will be faithful, but of across temper,—it also denotes attack from thieves,and a failure of crops,—it shows that you will beengaged in some disagreeeble quarrel, perhaps with 1your own family. If you are throwing onions away,it is the forerunner of mischief and quarrels,—if youare in love, you will fall out with your sweetheart, j—if you are in trade, you will quarrel with your ,customers and servants,—if you are gatheringonions, it betokens the recovery of some sick personof your family,—the receipt of some unexpectednews of a joyful kind, and a speedy removal fromyour present situation,17Oven. To dream you see an even, foretells thati jou are about to be separated from your family bybang in" your present residence ;—it shews you ani ttack by thieves in some bye place, and also that; our sweetheart is of a roving disposition, littlei fkely to make you happy.Oysters. To dream you are eating oysters, is abuy favourable omen; if you ar in trade, yourusiness will increase very fast, and y ou will be-ome rich ; if you are a farmer, you will have plen-ful crops; if you are mar-ied, your wife or hus-and will be very fond of you, and you will haveany children. For a maid to dream of eatingysters, shews that she will be quickly married to aoung man who will thrive much by industry, andave many children by her; to a man, it denotesfat he will marry a real virgin, who will be veryIbnd of him, and bring him many children.Palm. To dream on are gathering of palm,enotes plenty, riches, and success in undertakings,nd is a very good men indeed; to a marriedvoman, it is a certain token of her bearing children;;o a maid it foretels a sudden marriage with thefouth she loves, that she will have many childrenby him, and that she will live very happy in thanamed state.Pit. To dream of falling into a deep pit, showsthat some very heavy misfortune is about to attendyou, that your swe theart is false, and prefersanother; to a sailor t forebodes some sad disasterat the next port you touch at. To dream j'ou arein a pit, and that you climb out of it without muchtrouble, foreshows that you will have many enemies,and experience muc’ trouble, but that you willfjovercome them, and surmount your difficulties.119marry well and become rich ; to a sailor, il denote*that he will experience shipwreck, and be cast on sforeign shore, where he will be hospitably received,fall in love, marry a rich and handsome wife, quitthe sea, and live at ease on the shore.Pictures. To dream you are looking at beauti¬ful pictures, foreshows that you will be allured by;false appearances into some unprofitable concern,that you will waste your time on some idle project,and that you will always be in pursuit of happiness twithout attaining it; in love it denotes great plea¬sure in the enjoyment of the beloved object, itpromises a handsome wife, a good husband, andbeautifql children.Paper. To dream of paper is a good omen; ifit is quite clean, you will be very successful inyour undertakings, marry the person you love,have good and dutiful children, and be very happy;if it is dirty and scribbled upon, then it shows tem¬porary want, and some unpleasant altercation; ifit is plainly written, you will receive hasty news of'A good nature, make an advantageous bargain, andobtain some money by a legacy ; if it appears rum¬pled and carelessly folded up, it shows that somedifficulties will occur which will give you much pain;if it is neatly folded, you will obtain your favouritewish, he what it may.Peacock. To dream of seeing this beautiful birdis a very good omen ; it denotes great success intrade; to a man a very beautiful wife, much riches,and a good place; to a maid a good anc? rich hus¬band ; to a widow, that she will be courted by onewho will tell her many fine tales, without beingsincere; it also denotes great prosperity by sea, andk handsome wife in a distant part.Pigeons. To dream you see pigeons flying, im¬ports hasty news of a pleasant nature, and greatsuccess in undertakings; they are very favourableto lovers, as they announce constancy in your sweet¬heart, but also that the person you love will be ab¬sent from you a long while on a journey; if yourlover is at sea, they denote that he has a pleasantvoyage continues faithful, and will return rich.Plays. To dream you are at a play, is theforerunner of great good luck; it betokens greathappiness in the marriage state, and very greatsuccess in business; to a maid it shows speedymarriage with a young man, who will be very suc¬cessful in business, and acquire riches and honoursto make her very happy.Purse. To dream of finding a purse, is a veryfavourable omen; it denotes great happiness andunlooked-for prosperity; in love it is the sure tokenof a speedy marriage, and the being dearly belovedby the object of your affections. To dream you loseyour purse, shows the loss of a friend; in otherreepects it denotes some pleasant adventure is aboutto happen to you, by which you will be the gainer;to the sailor it denotes the loss of his sweetheartwhile at sea.Racing. To dream you are running a race, isa token of good, presages much success in life, andthat you will speedily hear some very joyful news;in love, it denotes that you will conquer all yourrivals, and be very happy in the union with the ob¬ject of your affections. To dream you are riding arace shows disappointment and anger, bad successin trade and in love; to a married woman, it de¬notes the loss of her husband’s affections, and thather children will be in trouble.soRainbow. To dream you fee a rainbow, denotesgreat travelling and change of fortune; it also fore¬tells sudden news of a very agreeable nature; itannounces that your sweetheart is of a very goodtemper, and constant, and that you will be veryhappy in marriage: have great success in businessthrough the means of trading with foreign parts.Ravens. To dream you see a raven is a veryunfavourable token, it denotes mischief and ad¬versity; in love it shows falsehood, and to themarried they forebode much mischief through theadultery of your conjugal partner; to the sailorthey betoken shipwreck, and much distress upon aforeign shore.Riding. To dream your are riding, if it be witha horse, is very unfortunate; expect to be crossed inlove; if you are in trade, business will decay,and you will be very near bankruptcy; if you are asailor it denotes perfidy in your sweetheart, andloose conduct with one of your shipmates; but ifit be with him, then expect the reverse of thesethings will happen, and that you will obtain a sumof money by some speculation of which you havebut an indifferent opinion.Rods. To dream you are whipt with rods de¬notes that you will meet with a perfidious friend,who will go very near to ruin you; it also betokensyour being shortly at a merry-making, where you |must be careful of quarrelling; if you do, it willturn out to your disadvantage; in love it denotesyour sweetheart to be cf a fickle disposition, andlittle calculated to make you happy.River. To dream you see a flowing river, andthat the waters are smooth and clear, presageshappiness and success in life; to the lover it showsconstancy and affection in the object of your love,and that if you marry, you will pass a very happy{and contented life, have fine children, mostly girls,who will be very beautiful; to the tradesman andit farmer, it shows prosperity and gain; to the sailor,I that his sweetheart will be kind and constant, andthat his next voyage will be lucrative and pleasant.If the water appears disturbed and muddy, or hasIt I a yellow tinge, then it denotes that you will acquireconsiderable riches; if you have a lawsuit, such adream surely foretells that you will gain your cause.Sheep. To dream you see a flock of sheepfeeding, is a very favourable omen; it denotes sue*i cess in life; to the lover it indicates your sweet¬heart to be faithful, of an amiable temper, andinclined to marry you; in the married state, it de¬notes children, who will be very happy, becomerich, and be great comforts in the evening of life;to the tradesman, it foretells increase of business,and accumulation of wealth, but also forewarnshim that he has a servant unworthy of his confl-donce; to the sailor nothing can be a greater signcf good luck, his next voyage will be pleasant andlucrative, and his sweetheart kind and true.To dream you see them dispersing, and running-way from you, shows that pretended friends areEndeavouring to do you an injury, and that yourildreu wiil meet with persecution and greatoubles; in love, such a dream shows your sweet-art to be fickle, and little calculated to make)u happy. To dream you see sheep shearing is.jdicative of loss of property, and the affections ofthe person you love, also your liberty. To dreamyou are shearing them yourself, shows that you willgala an advantage over some person who meant toharm yew, and that you will get tT.e hettor of ditS- ■cultics, and marry the object of your affections.Spit. To dream you are in a kitchen turninga spit, is the forerunner of troubles and misfor¬tunes ; expect to be robbed, to lose your trade, to „become very poor, and that your friends will desert (Iyou : if you are in love, it shows the object of youraffections to be of a bad temper, lazy, and doomedto misfortunes and poverty. | tStarching. To dream you are starching of linen, ,shows you will be married to an industrious person, ;and that you will be successful in life, and savemoney ; it also shows that you are about to receive aletter, containing some pleasant news.Squirrel. To dream of a squirrel, shows thatenemies are endeavouring to slander your reputa¬tion ; to the lover, it shows your sweetheart is ofa bad temper, and much given to drinking; if youhave a lawsuit, it will surely be decided againstyou : if in trade, sharpers will endeavour to defraudyou: and you will quarrel with your principalcreditor.Swimming. To dream you are swimming withyour head above the water, denotes great successin your undertakings, whether they be love, trade,sea, or farming. To dream of swimming with yourhead below the water, shows that you will experiencesome great trouble and hear some very unpleasantnews from a person you thought dead. In trade itshows loss of business, and that you will perhaps beimprisoned for debt; in love it denotes disappoint- iment in your wishes.Swans. To dream of seeing swans denotes happi¬ness in the marriage state ; and many children, whowill become rich and respectable in your old age.ii riih joy nud happiness; to the lover, they denote| constancy Jiml affection in your sweetheart; in trail a[ they show success, but much vexation from the dia-i closure of secrets.Tempests. To dream you are in a storm ori tempest, shows that you will, after many difficulties,arrive at being very happy, that you will becomeextremely rich, and marry exceeding well. For alover to dream of being in a violent tempest, de¬notes that you will have many formidable rivals,'who after causing you a great deal of vexationland uneasiness, you will triumph over. It alsoiforebodes you will receive good news from a longrlabsent friend, who is abroad, and who will haveovercome many hardships and extreme difficul¬ties.Thunder and Lightning, To dream you heardistinctly thunder, and see lightning, is a very goodnomen; it denotes success in trade; good crops tothe farmer; and a speedy and happy marriage tothe lover. If you are soliciting a place, you willr.:' obtain it; if you have a lawsuit, it will go in your!iif favour; it also indicates speedy news from a far•distant country, intimating that a near relative hasmtobtained a very lucrative situation, in which he willnave an opportunity of doing his friends a greatAttleal of good. ^Trumpet. To dream that you hear the sound offr trumpet is a bad omen, and denotes troubles anf• tknisfortunes; to the tradesman it presages the lossi; pf business; the farmer bad crops; to the lover11 I nsincerity in the object of your affections.Trees. To dream you see trees in blossom de-linotes a happy marriage with the present object ofsyour affections, and many children, who will all do^ I14extremely well in life; to the trr.desin&n it denotessnccesa in business, and to the sailor pleasant andlucrative voyages. To dream you are elimbiugtrees, denotes that you will make a fortune, andrise to honours and dignities in the state. Todream you are cutting down trees, foretells heavylosses by trade and by sea; and also the death of anear relation, or most dear friend. .Water, To dream you are drinking water, da- jnotes great trouble and adversity in trade, loss of ;business, and being arrested: to the lover it shows iyour sweetheart is false, prefers another, and willnever marry you.Wheat. To dream you see, or are walking in afield of wheat, is a very favourable omen; anddenotes great prosperity and riches: in love, it au¬gurs a completion of your most sanguine wishes,and foretells much happiness, with fine children,when you marry; if you have a lawsuit, you willgain it, and you will be successful in all your un¬dertakings.TO THE BEADEfl.The foregoing pages are published principally to show the supersH*tious which engrossed the mind of the population of Scotlandduring a past age, and which are happily disappearing before th»progress of an enlightened civilization. It is hoped, therefore,that the reader will not attach the slightest importance to thesolutions of the dreams as rendered above, as dreams are goser.dlythe result of a disordered stomach, or an excited imagination. >