vVhetftone for Doll Wits :O R, A! N E W COLLECTIONO FR I D D L E S,>' F O R T H E ,; EN PERTAIN MEN r OF YOUTH.Of Msrry Books this is toe ChiefIt is a pur fag Pill,To carry ojf all beany GriefAnd mike you laugh your fill.'*V.'<T Vi 'Jfp'-f X'aivy&1§P? ■JWr-- -r^hr>h!iIMGLASGOW,Printed by ]. and M. Robertfon, fNo sr/tSaltraarket, 1809.Whetftone for Dull WitsQ U E S T I ON I.INTO this world I came hanging,nd when from the fame I was gang'i o*was cruelly batter’d and fqueez’d,men with mv blood were we!A: Pippin pounded into Cyder.fm white and^lifF, it is.well known.!my noil* is red ;Ladies will as well as Jcto their Bed.A wide mouth, no ears nor eyes,No fcorching dames 1 feel:[ fwaliow more than may fufSceFull forty at a meal.A. An Oven.Q. Though of a great age,I am kept in a cage.Having a long tail and one car}My mouth, it is round,And when jovs do abound,O then I ling wonderful clear.A. A Bell in a Steeple; the Rcj.>e. be¬tokens a Tail, and the Wheel an Ear,Q. TheLr ..V4 4 for Dull Wits.Qc The greiieft travellers that e’er were known,};y fea and latrd, v-ere mighty archers twain ;Ho anr.cmr proof, or fenced walls of (lone,Coi%i turn their arrows ; bulwarks were in vain.THro* princes’ courts and kingdoms far and near,As well in foreign parts as Chriftendotn,1 hcftstvaveUers 'their weary Heps' do deer,‘ But eo the defert they do feldom come.A. Death and Cupid, whole Arrows tpierte through the walls of Grafs, orwn.pg Armour, m al] Courts andKingdoms in the habitable World.A dainty fine thing,Which under Aer wing,My Lady does commonly wear, *;M With a bottomlefs hole,As blach as a coal.And cover d all over with hair.'A. A Muff.A ■ • • ' ' • v ■ ■ A 1*• r ■ . .s ••.-I 4 .<. , . A . \ ■yT'.t ,4V •* '. • * • • . [IQ. k TvLdd with a Balket ofShe law a Thing ftan'd wahout ; i rA w:3AA Whetjhve for Lull Hu's. ' ^Twas both hi IF and ftrong,'\nd fame handfuls long,Having a hr ilk beard;phe was not afraid,t\nd likewife ibe faidShe’d do it no wrong,A. An Ear of Eye-corn growing ouhe Land, which a Maid law as ihcWas going to Market.§ * . ; , h.A ! ■ . ■ .•a Two Calves and an ApeThey made an efcapeijlTcin one that was worfe than a fprighrj,They travail’d togetherIn all forts pf weather,Cut often were put in a fright.s JA. A Man flying from his feokiingMile; the two Calves and an Apeffs?~mfy tire Calves ot ths Legs and the:| Nape of his Neck, which by travel^i:bug were expofed to the Weather.: :A f ■ ■ . d 5AjI V/hcijlane for Dull Hrits>t flies without wingsn hi hen firings,And leaves, as you find,The guts full behind.A. A Weaver’s Shuttle.Q. It liv’d and dy’d: and after deathBereav'd (bme hundredsoftheir breath;Aflified by a man of grief,To whom it yielded fbme relief.A. Samfcn’s [aw-bone of an Afs,with which he hew a thoufand Men,and was relieved himfeif by a tenfpringing from the fame, wh< hewas thirfly,Q.-—    A Whctjlcne fw Dull Wits*Q. To the green woodHill oft it hath gang'd,Yet yields us no good,51 ill decently bang’d.A. A Hog fattened with Acorns,which* makes good Bacon when hang-and dried.Ch There was a fair maid,Who merrily faid.Her lover was itupjd and dull ;He put a long thinginto a black hole,And fatisfy’d her to the full.1 A. A Pen.Q,I Pent a token to my friend, •dt was a pledge that had no end ;But when the fame my friend did get,‘My friend foon put an end to it.A. A Ring fent to an ungratefulEerfbn, who ibid it.HiQ. A,■f8 A'Wbetjhne fcr Dull} Q. A thing with a thundering breechIt weighing a thousand pound welly,I have heard it roarLouder tiian Guy’s Wild Boar,They fay it hath death in its belly.A. A Camion.(1. In pain was a Squire’s Daughter,She hired a young man foon alter,Though it is not much,Tie gave her a touch,.Her for row was foon turn’d to laiigoter.* ■ _A. A Maid whole knee yeas out oiJoint, which being let (lie rejoiced.O. One Month, one Nofe, two charming Eye*,. Two Feet, two Hands, two 'Heads Hkevwte*ie* "1A. A young.Virgin, whole NaturalTIcad and Maider.head make two.Q. Altho' in number I’m the f:n 5%O’er kings I reign and beat the taht l. iA. The Ace of Trumps.Q vlyA Whetjhnc fcr Dull Wits.is wood.My backfideMy belly’s as good,My ribs they are lined with leather;Mv nofe it is brafs.With two holes in my arfe,' And Commonly us’d in cold v/eather,A. A pair of BellowsQ. No teeth I have, and yet 1And when the bite is feen,According to my deader miglThere are the marks of tphMy beard is red and green,A. A Nettle.Q. Two broti:iers we are4Great burthens we bear,By’which we are bkieriy pre|tIn truth we may fay,We are. full all the day,Bntvempty when we go to re(i,A. A pair of Shoes.A. A diamond ring on a Lady’s finger.Q. I am made of wood,Clear brafs, found and good,To keep men that they may not cozenI am twenty-four,And can be no more,Sometimes I’m reduc’d to a dozen.A. A two-foot Rule, being 24 Inchesbut when Unit, no more than 12,Q. There is a precious thingThat always is on wing ;When tny face it lies, *You’ll had how fwift it flies.-10 d Whetfione for Dull Wits.Rich, yellow, and bright.Long, flender, and white.Both one in another there are;Now tell unto me,What this Riddle may be.Then will I your wif'dpm declare.~  A Whetfione for Dull Wits, 11A. A Sun-Dial which {hews the fwift-nefs of Time.a A man and no man.Like a fury laid on.Sir Green was drowned in Sour ;With Sir White and Sir BlackHe ftood to the tackTill all of them he did devour.A. A Taylor at Dinner with a DHhof Cucumbers, ferved up with Pepper^Salt, and Vinegar. * /It has many eyes.But never a nofe,When down from the flcies,Wind bitterly blows ;|| And likewife does fallBoth hail, fnow, and rain,t It faces them all,Ami fcorns to complain,■ .n. A Lettice Window..\ Qj To12 A Whetjhnc for Dull Wits..Q. To eafe men of their care,I do both rend and tearTheir mother’s bowels (till;Yet though I do,There are but fewThat feem to take it ill.A. A Plough which breaks up the bow- |eh'of the Earth for the Towing of Corn. ’0, Jb ere are many teeth, but ne’er aA thoufand at the lead:; (month.They are both call, weft, north, and'■ But lefdoni at a feaft, (fouth,A. A Pair of Woolen Cards.Q. My ftomr.ch they fitSometimes with a bit,They give, and I am the receiver,And what I do take,* Toes commonly makeMy fair face as hot as a fever.A. A Box-Iron; the Beater betokensthe Bit.A Whetflone for Dull Witt,, 13Q. By the help of a guide,I often divide1 What'once in a green forefi: flood.Behold me though IHave got but one eye.When that is ft opt i do the mo ft good.A. A Hatchet, with which they cleaveWood; till the Kye is flopped with theHaft, it cannot perform Bufmefs,O. A mighty row of ribs 1 have,A back that’s wondrous thin.No belly, head, nor tail I crave,Yer am a w rv ufeful thing.Q. ClofeA. A comb.14 Whetjlanc for Dull Wits.Q, Clofe in a cage a bird I keep.That fmgs both day and night.When other birds are faft atlcep,Its notes yields fweet delight.Q. I’m carry’d quite thro’ the CitySeeming mighty pretty,No quarrel or wrangle 1. breed,My body is taper,I fear not a rapier,Tho’ ftabb’d, not a drop do I bleed.A. The Scabbard of a Sword.Q. Tm puncheon and thick,My belly thev prickWith fharp and pointed fpears,Tho’ many a head appears,There’s neither eyes nor ears.Pin-cufhion full of Pins, whofeHeads have no Eves nor Ears.*5A Whetflone for Dull Wits.A vifage fair,And voice as rare,.. Affording pieafant charms ;Which is with usMoll ominous,ij Prefaging future harms.A. A Mermaid, which betokens de-ftrmflion to Mariners.By fparks of fine lawnl am luflily drawn.But not in a chariot or coach:I fly, in a word,More fwift than a bird,That does the green foreft approach.A. An Arrow drawn in a Bow by a> Gentleman Archer.1 Q^My fldn is black, my blood isfweet.My heart refemblcs wood,I In which there’s fomething may be eat,Tho’ not exceeding good.A. A Black cherry.Q^My'.16 A Whetjime for dull Wits.Q, My ears they rim round,And reach to the ground,To the admiration of man ;The one part is dead.The other well fed;This Riddle expound if you can.A. A Horfe and cart; the wheelsbetoken Ears that reach to the ground;the HoiTe is fed, the cart is dead.Q. A little informer,Cloth’d in bright armour,Beloved by men of degree.It goes fine and neat,Without legs or feet.Now tell me what this Riddle muft be.I • rA. A Watch, in a Silver Cafe, theTiand Shews Men the Hour, while the >Silver betokens bright armour.Q. My |A Whsifione for Dull Wits. 17.!Q. My back is broad, my belly is thin,And ! ana lent to pieafure youthijWhere mortal man has feldom been,Tho’ A range, it is a naked truth.A. A Paper Kite, which mounts the1 lofty Air.Q. ’Tis neither xlfcili nor bone,Yet it pafies on j.By which is fairly IhewnThe length and breadth of man»A. \ Man's Shadow whiift he istalking m the Sun.Q. From five feet high,L1p to the IkyIt reaches although it is round t -Now try your wits,’ If fancy hits,This Ruklle youTl expound.j| A. The Sight of a man’s Eye.18 A Whetjione for Dull Wits.Here follo’ws feverdl Comical Hfuefions. i:question I.T F fix (hillings and a farthing {hall bs| paid by a (bleed number of men, : ■each paying an equal ill are, how ma¬ny ihall iliere needs be to difehargethe faTne ?An Aver, Seventeen, each payingfour pence farthing.Q. 2. How may a draw be laid uponthe ground, that it may not be jump- ued over?—They to whom you pro-.! iipofe this queltion, will think it eafy :to be done: If it (hall come to a wa¬ger, lay your draw cloib to the wall ;on the ground, and they will foon fee ::it impoffibie to be done-. So yielding i pthe wager lod, it may occafion fame (laughter.Q If a Butcher folds his fervatit ;;to market, and orders him, with twen¬ty (hillings, to buy twenty head of Ifimail ca.tie of feverai prices; that is s?to lav, * Weathers at four fllillings »a-piece, Ewes at twelve- pence, andBambs at a groat; and to lay out ail *,the twenty (hillings, and to have tw?n- »ty head, neither more nor ids, how 'j}many;iMBniMff ij IA Whsijione for Dull Wits. 19many of a fort mu ft there be to ccm-pkat the number of the ore-laidImoney ?Anfwer. Two Weathers, nine Ewes,and nine lambs.Q. 4. To lay a man’s right handupon himfelf, whcr . he- earmot touchit with his left, vhll Item Orange to(those who are unarqnaurted with thetrick ; and when they have tried, lomewill be ready to bet; then take theirfight hand and lay it upon the back-Rde of their left elbow, and they will!roon bo obliged to yie!d ttie wager loft.Q_ . How to make two Calves andan Ape dance in the middle of theroom before company.—When youIpropofe to do this, fome will lay younave the art of conjiiration and thatyou are going to adt the fecond partOf Dr Fauftus: others will be curiouso lee what may be done in it: and.he better to bring it about, vrili beipr to lay fome fmall wager, thht youcannot perform what was promifed.tow, the wager being laid, rife fromour feat, and whereas you p^Onrsifedjo make two Calves and an .^pc- dance,lance round the room yoUrfelf; andthe510 Merry 1 'ales and Comical Jejh.the calves of your legs arui the uiipeof your neck will dance with you,which are what are mentioned.Here follow merry ‘Tiles and Comical Jejts.. 1 N the reign of Queen Eliz abeith,>f the County of Eahcalter'was muchpelfered with witches, whereupon theQueen lent her judges down to trythem, This being rdblvfcd to try theold men and women, whether or notthey were witches. Now one amongmany, was a poor man, who having ■;;a fort of wart on his fide, doubtedthat he was a witch therefore he de-;fired his wife to let him go to theplace, which was about thirty miles,there to be refolvon of his doubt. Mis swife, being a very civil woman, gavehim have. Now after a long travel,Corping to. the courts \yhich was thenfitting, he ruihed in amongfl theni,and ti>e cryer of the court obierymg citj'dei/audtd fdence, and bid him give;an account to the court of what heJyad t o - fa y. M arry, quoth he, t he y *fay tliefe gentlemen can tell one wlie-,'^her a body be a when or apt, and hav¬ing a wart on my fide, I am afraid, h■ Merry Tales and Comical Jcfts. 21am fb; ! pray you re(olvve me. Thecryer perc^iying his ignorance., faui,Alas! man, thou ar^ no.vvnch, thoulookefl more like a cuckold than awitch. Then making a leg to the court,pte gave them thanks, and fb returnedhome cheerfully. His wife, meetingaim at the town’s end, fa id Hufband,art thou a witch or not ? No, wife, they:eU me l look mor? like a cuckold.Mu (hand, fay they fo. we will havehem taken up for witches, for ch¬iefs they were witches.they could notell that you was a cuckold.A young woman bting alone, agentleman came into her company,vho p.fter a friendly faiuration, alkedio.w her hufband did. She laid, He ‘'s as crofs and unki’.id to ne a- evernan was to a wife; fo that l have butsvfit tie comfort in his converfatioh. A-' \-:ias! quoth he, why do not you make ■kirn a cuckold? She finding faid, Sir,i cannot, but you may. . :j A Welchman meeting wuth a bonnykot, began to brag of bur wond«rtuldventures and long travels The ocotexiled, What have you learned -in tarQpmries ? The Welchman- laid, HurQo-r ' hasT "'AlV•i. a22 Merry Tales and Comical JeJts.has learnt to ilop three holes with onpeg. The Scotchman replied. This ia pretty trick; qpw is it to be done lWhy, quoth the Welchman, put huinofe in toy arfe, and then there willbe three holes ftopt with one peg.An old woman in a country village 'had been fuch a wonderful cracker oinuts all her life-time, that at her deathfhe willed, that a bag of nuts mighibe put in her cofrin to lay her head •upon, which was accordingly done 'and the old woman was often feen a{ :ter Iter death fitting in the church ■porch, cracking nuts. Now-it hap* opened that a couple of butchers haamade a bargain to deal iheep out o:;a pafiure-ground adjoining to tinchurch-yard: it was agreed upon be*.tween them, that one ihould fit in thschurch-porch and watch, while rh«other fetched a fheep on his back tchim. it is to be noted, that the fex*tor. was a lame man, and ufed to b*carried on a man’s back every winter’morning to ring the five o’clock-bedComing as ttfual, the butcher waitingfor his companion, thought he had beetcoining with a fiieep upon his backanii,,  mi j j jland faid, Is it fat? Is it fat? thelellow,ithinking it had been tb?e old womancracking nuts, was horribly frightened,and thereupon threw the lame fextonIdown, crying, Fat or lean, take him asihe is, Mr Devil; and then ran out oflithe church-yard like a fellow diftracledleaving the poor affrighted fexton tocrawl home upon all-fours.A countryman having one fon, nam¬ed Jack, an unlucky boy, his father oneJay was about to chafide him for hiswickednefs; but Jack getting from himoy the help of a light pair of heels, tur¬ned about and cried our, You old iherp-fealer, I can hang you if l will. Hisfather continued to call him; but he'aid I will not come, you will beat me.\ neighbour coming by, Did, Jack,go to your father, and he will nor beati?ou. Truft him and hang him, quothiack. The neighbour cal hug to his fa-her, faid, You will not beat hkn if hemines quickly;. No, quoth he, I willaot. Jack cried out aloud, Gafler,wear him, for he will fwear like any;og. At which the neighbour wentjway laughing, &c. and left jack andis father to fight it out fairly.A ci-{hifLA citizen that wns>’ more tender of himfelf,than his wife, ufuaily in cold weather madeher go to her! fir It, and wlien her fat but¬tocks had fufficientjy warmed his place, hecame and removed her out of it, and layin it himfelf; and to make himfelf merry,cailed her his warming-pan. She not be-^:ing able to endure this indignity any long-1'er, one night (fir reverence) befhit the bed.He ridded into it, and finding himfelf ina {linking condition cried out, O wife, Iam be-fnit! No, hufband, fays file, it isonly a coal dropt out of the warming-pan.A young gentleman, date of the countryhaving more wit than money, and not pay-. ;irig his chamber, fludy, or commons, was iu-fdebted to the houfej and it was thereupon! jordered that his chamber fhould be feized.He en.ring thereof, cried, PJi remedy that fam refolved, and fo prtfcntly went and too®'the chamber door off the binges and lockedit up in his dole". The officers coming to mfa padlock thereon, found themfelves difap|pointed, and fearching the room found notany thing worth their felzUre.Thus I conclude this little bookOf Riddles, . Jokes, and Tales, ,Which may create a cheerful lodk.When other methods fails. .FINIS.G t. A S G O W,Printed by, j.'Sc K. Robertscn, (No. acO Saltn;j{rIiSi, 43