GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOPOOR RICHARD’S MAXIMS IMPROVED, &o.“ For age and want save what you may,“ No morning sun lasts a whole day.”,oA t(i:. KViU !'Z: ■{J V : V..r ;j M ; ) (r> ^ '' •’ A..'eitTHEWAY TO WEALTH.I have heard that nothing gives an author so greatpleasure as to find his works respectfully quoted byother learned authors. This pleasure I have sel¬dom enjoyed; for though I have been, if I maysay it without vanity, an eminent author (of Alma-; i' nacks) annually, now a full quarter of a century,| my brother authors in the same way (for what rea¬son I know not,) have ever been very sparing in• j, their applauses ; and no other author has takenthe least notice of me ; so that, did not my writings[ I produce me some solid pudding, the great deficiency) of praise would have quite discouraged me.I concluded at length, that the people were theI best judges of my merit, for they buy my works ;5§ and besides, in my rambles, where I am not per-ij] sonally known, I have frequently heard one or>lj other of my adages repeated with“ As poor Richard says,”' J;i\at the end on’t. This gave me some satisfaction ;as it showed not only that my instructions wereregarded, but discovered ; and I own, that, to en¬courage the practice of remembering and repeatingthose wise sentences, I have sometimes quoted my¬self with great gravity.Judge, then, how much I must have been grati¬fied by an incident I am going to relate to you.4I stopped my horse lately, where a great num¬ber of people were collected at an Auction of Mer •chant Goods. The hour of sale not being come,they were conversing on the badness of the times,and one of the company called to a plain, clean,old man, with white locks, “ Pray, father Abraham,what think you of the times ? Won’t these heavytaxes quite ruin the country ? How shall we everbe able to pay them ? What would you advise usto do?” Father Abraham stood up and replied—“ If you’d have my advice, I’ll give it to you inshort: ‘ for a word to the wise is enough ; andmany words won’t fill a bushel,’ as poor Richardsays.” They joined in desiring him to speak hismind ; and gathering round him, he proceeded as 'follows :—Friends, says he, and neighbours, the taxes areindeed very heavy ; and if those laid on by thegovernment were the only ones we had to pay, wemight more easily discharge them ; but we havemany others, and much more grievous to some ofus. We are taxed twice as much by our idleness,three times as much by our pride, and four timesas much by our folly ; and from these taxes thecommissioner cannot ease or deliver us by allowingan abatement. However, let us hearken to goodadvice, and something may be done for us :“ God helps them that helps themselves”as poor Richard says in his Almanack.It would be thought a hard government thatshould tax its people one-tenth part of their time,to be employed in its service ; but idleness taxes jmany of us much more, if we reckon all that isspenl in absolute sloth, or doing of nothing, with• Jothat which is spent in idle employments, or amuse¬ments that amount to nothing.“ Sloth, by bringing on disease, absolutely shortens life.”“ Sloth, like rust, consumes faster than labourwears, while the key used is always bright,” aspoor Richard says.But dost thou love life ? then do not squandertime, for “ that’s the stuff life is made of,” as poorRichard says. How much more than is necessarydo we spend in sleep! forgetting that “ the sleep¬ing fox catches no poultry, and that there will besleeping enough in the grave,” as poor Richardsays. “ If time be of all things the most precious,wasting time must be (as poor Richard says) thegreatest prodigality since, as he elsewhere tells,“ Lost time is never found again ; and what wecall time enough, always proves little enough.”Let us then up and be doing, and doing to thepurpose; so by diligence shall we do more withless perplexity. “ Sloth makes all things difficult,but industry all easy,” as poor Richard says ; and,“ he that riseth late must trot all day, and shallscarce overtake his business at night; while lazi¬ness travels so slowly that poverty soon overtakeshim,” as we read in poor Richard; who adds,“ Drive thy business; let not that drive thee,” and,“ Early to bed, and early to rise,Makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.”So what signifies wishing and hoping for better ,times? We make these times better if we bestirourselves. “ Industry needs not wish,” as poorRichard says; and,G'• lie that lives upon hope will die fasting.”“ There are no gains without pains ; then helphands, for I have no lands, or if T have, they aresmartly taxed ; and, (as poor Richard likewise oh •serves,) “ He that hath a trade hath an estate; andhe that hath a calling hath an offifce of profit andhonour; hut then the trade must he worked at,and the calling well followed, or neither the estatenor the office will enable us to pay our taxes.If we are industrious, we shall never starve; for,as poor Richard says, “ At the working man’shouse hunger looks in, but dares not enter.” Norwill the bailiff or the constable enter; for, “ Indus¬try pays debts, while despair increaseth them,”says poor Richard. What though you have foundno treasure, nor has any rich relation left you alegacy? “Diligence is the mother of good luck,”as poor Richard says ; and, “God gives all thingsto industry ;Then plough deep while sluggards sleep,And you will have corn to sell and to keep.”says poor Dick.Work while it is called to-day; for you knownot how much you may bo hindered to-morrow ;which makes poor Richard say, “ One to-day isworth two to-morrows,” and further, “Have yousomewhat to do to-morrow, do it to-day.” If youwere a servant, would you not be ashamed that agood master should catch you idle ? Are you thenyour own master? be ashamed to catch yourselfidle, as poor Dick says.When there is so much to be done for yourself,your family, your country, and your gracious king,be up by peep of day; “let not the sun look down,and say,Inglorious here he lies !Handle your tools without mittensremember,that “the cat in gloves catches no mice,” as poorRichard says.It is true there is much to be done, and perhapsyou are weak handed ; but stick to it steadily andyou will see great effects ; for, “ constant droppingwears away stones, and by diligence and, patiencethe mouse ate into the cable: and light strokes fellgreat oaks,” as poor Richard says in his Almanack,the year I cannot just now remember.Methinks I hear some of you say, “ Must a manafford himself no leisure ?”—I will tell thee myfriend what poor Richard says :—“ Employ thytime well, if thou meanst to gain leisure; and sincethou art not sure of a minute, throw not away anhour.” Leisure is time for doing something useful;this leisure the diligent man will obtain, but thelazy man never ; so that, as poor Richard says,“ A life of leisure and a life of laziness are twotilings.”Do you imagine that sloth will afford you morecomfort than labour ? No; for, as poor Richardsays, “ Troubles spring from idleness, and grievoustoil from needless ease:” Many without labourwould live by their own wits only ; but they breakfor want of stock : “ Whereas industry gives com¬fort, and plenty, and respect. “ Fly pleasures, andthey’ll follow you ; the diligent spinner has a largeshift; and now I have a large shift; and now Ihave a sheep and a cow, every body bids me goodmorrow all which is well said b" noor Richard.8But, with our industry, we must likewise besteady, settled, and careful, and oversee our ownaffairs with our own eyes, and never trust too muchto others ; for, as poor Richard says,“ I never saw an oft removed tree.Nor yet an oft removed family,That throve so well as those that settled be.”And again, “ Three removes are as bad as afire and again, “ Keep thy shop, and thy shopwill keep thee and again, “ If you would haveyour business done, go : if not, send.” And again,“ He that by the plough would thrive,Himself must either hold or drive.”And again, “ The eye of a master will do morework than both his hands ; and again, “Want ofcare does us more damage than want of knowledge ;and again, “ Not to oversee workmen is to leavethem your purse open.”Trusting too much to others’ care is the ruin ofmany ; for, as the Almanack says, “ In the affairsof the world, men are saved not by faith, but bythe want of itbut a man’s own care is profitable ;fbr, saith poor Dick, “ Learning is to the studious,and riches to the careful, as well as power to thebold, and heaven to the virtuous.”And further, “ If you would have a faithful ser¬vant, and one that you like, serve yourself. ” Andagain, he adviseth to circumspection and care evenin the smallest matters ; because, sometimes, ‘ ‘ Alittle neglect may breed great mischiefadding,“ For want of a nail the shoe was lost; for wantof a shoe the horse was lost; and for want of ahorse the rider was lostbeing overtaken and9slain by the enemy, all for want of care about ahorse shoe nail.So much for industry, my friends, and attentionto one’s own business ; but to these we must addfrugality, if we would make our industry more cer¬tainly successful.A man may, if he knows not how to save as hegets, “keep his nose all his life to the grindstone,and die not worth a groat at last.” “ A fat kittenmakes a lean will,” as poor Richard says ; and,“ Many estates are spent in the getting ;Since women for tea forsook spinning and knitting,And men for punch forsook hewing and splitting.”“ If you would be wealthy, (says, he in anotherAlmanack,) think of saving, as well as Of getting :The Indians have not made Spain rich, becauseher outgoes are greater than her incomes.”Away, then, with your expensive follies, andyou will not have much cause to complain of hardtimes, heavy taxes, and chargeable families ; for,as poor Dick says,“ Women and wine, game and deceit.Make the wealth small, and the wants great.’And further, “ What maintains one vice wouldbring up two children.” You may think, perhaps,that a little punch, now and then, diet a little morecostly, clothes a little finer, and a little entertain¬ment now and then, can be no great matter ; butremember what poor Richard says, “ Many a littlemakes a meikle and further, “ Beware of littleexpenses; a small leak will sink a great ship andagain, “ Who dainties love shall beggars proveand moreover,“Fools make feasts, and wise men eat them.”10Here you are all got together at this sale offineries and nick-nacks. You call them GOODS ;but, if you do not take care, they will proveEVILS to some of you. You expect they will besold cheap, and perhaps they may, for less^thanthey cost; but, if you have no occasion for them,they must be dear to you. Remember what poorRichard says, “ Buy what thou hast no need of,and ere long thou shalt sell thy necessaries.” Andagain, “ At a great penny-worth pause a while.”He means, that perhaps the cheapness is apparentonly, but not real; or the bargain, by straiteningthee in thy business, may do thee more harm thangood. For in another place he says,“Many have been ruined by buying good pennyworths.”Again, poor Richard says, “ It is foolish to layout money in a purchase of repentance ; and yetthis folly is practised every day at auctions, forwant of minding the Almanack. “ Wise men,”(as poor Dick says,) “learn by others harms; foolsscarcely by their own.” Many a one for the sakeof finery on the back, have gone with a hungrybelly, and have-starved their families.“ Silks and satins, scarlets and velvets,” (as poorRichard says) put out the kitchen fire.” Theseare not the necessaries of life, they can scarcely bocalled the conveniences; and yet, only because theylook pretty, how many want to have them ? Theartificial wants of mankind thus become more nu¬merous than the natural: and, as poor Richardsays, “ For one poor person there are a hundredindigent.”By these and other extravagancies, the genteelare reduced to poverty, and forced to borrow ofthose whom they formerly despised, but who,through industry and frugality, have maintainedtheir standing; in which case it appears plainly,that “ a ploughman on his legs is higher than agentleman on his knees,” as poor Richard says.Perhaps they have had a small estate left them,which they knew not the getting of; they think“it is day, and will never be nightthat a littleto he spent out of so much is not worth minding :“ A child and a fool” (as poor Richard says) “ima¬gine twenty shillings and twenty years can neverhe spent; but always taking out of the meal-tub,and never putting in, soon comes to the bottomthen, as poor Dick says, “ When the well is dry,they know the worth of water.” But this theymight have known before, if they had taken hisadvice.‘ ‘ If you would know the value of money, go andtry to borrow some ; for he that goes a borrowinggoes a sorrowing,” as poor Richard says ; and in¬deed so does he that lends to such people, when hegoes to get it in again.I Poor Dick further advises, and says,“ Fond pride of dress is sure a very curse.Ere Fancy you consult, consult your purse.”And again, “pride is as loud a beggar as want, anda great deal more saucy,” When you have boughtone fine thing you must buy ten more, that yourappearance may be all of a piece ; but poor Dicksays, “ it is easier to suppress the first desire thanto satisfy all that follow itand it is as trulyfolly for the poor to ape the rich, as the frog toswell, in order to equal the ox.“ Vessels large may venture more.But little boats should keep near shore.”’Tis, however, a folly soon punished ; for “ Pridethat dines on vanity, sups on contempt,” as poorRichard says. And in another place,“ Pride breakfasted with Plenty,Dined with Poverty,And supped with Infamy.”And, after all, of what use is this pride of appear¬ance, for which so much is risked, so much is suf¬fered ? It cannot promote health, nor ease pain ;it makes no increase of merit in the person: it cre¬ates envy ; it hastens misfortune.“ ‘What is a butterfly ? at bestHe’s but a caterpillar drest;The gaudy fop’s his picture just,”as poor Richard says.But what madness must it be to run in debt forthose superfluities! We are offered by the termsof this sale, six months credit: and that perhapshas induced some of us to attend it, because wecannot spare the ready money, and hope now to befine without it. But ah ! think what you do whenyou run in debt; you give to another power overyour liberty. If you cannot pay at the time, youwill be ashamed to see your creditor, you will be infear when you speak to him, you will make poor,pityful, sneaking excuses, and, by degrees, come tolose your veracity, and sink into base, downrightlying ; for, as poor Richard says, “ the second viceis lying ; the first is running in debt.”* And again to the same purpose, “ Lying ridesupon debt’s back whereas a free born Britonought not to be ashamed nor afraid to see or speakto any man living. But poverty often deprives a13man of all spirit and virtue. “ It is hard for anempty bag to stand upright,” as poor Richard trulysays.What would you think of that prince, or of that■ government, who should issue an edict, forbiddingyou to dress like a gentleman or gentlewoman, onpain of imprisonment or servitude ? Would you notsay, that you were free, have a right to dress as youplease, and that such an edict would be a breach ofyour privileges, and such a government tyranical?And yet, you are about to put yourself under thatI tyranny, when you run in debt for such dress!Your creditor has authority, at his pleasure, to de-| prive you of your liberty, by confining you in jailI for life, or by selling you for a servant, if youi should not be able to pay him.I When you have got your bargain, you may, per¬haps, think little of payment; but “ Creditors,”(poor Richard tells us) “ have better memories thandebtors and in another place, he says, “ Creditorsare a superstitious set, great observers of set daysi and times.”The day comes round before you are aware, andthe demand is made before you are prepared tosatisfy it; or, if you bear your debt in mind, theterm which at first seemed so long, will, as it les-! sens, appear extremely short; time will seem tohave added wings to his heels as well as his shoul¬ders.“ Those have a short Lent,” (saith poor Richard,)r who owe money to be paid at Easter.” Thenh since, as he says, “ The borrower is a slave to thea lender, and the debtor to the creditor;” disdainJ the chain, preserve your freedom, and maintain| your independence; be industrious and free, boI frugal and free.14At present, perhaps, you may think yourselvesin thriving circumstances, and that you can bear alittle extravagance without injury ; but“ For age and want save what you mayNo morning sun lasts a whole day,”as poor Richard says. Gain may be temporaryand uncertain ; but, ever while you live, expenseis constant and certain ; and it is easier to buildtwo chimneys, than to keep one in fuel, as poorRichard says. So, ‘ ‘ rather go to bed supperlessthan rise in debt.”“ Get what you can, and what you got hold,’Tis the stone that will turn all your lead into gold,”as poor Richard says. And when you have got thephilosopher’s stone, sure you will no longer com¬plain of bad times, or the difficulty of paying taxes.This doctrine, my friends, is reason and wisdom;but, after all, do not depend too much on your ownindustry, and frugality, and prudence, though ex¬cellent things ; for they may all be blasted, withoutthe blessing of heaven; and therefore ask thatblessing humbly, and be not uncharitable to thosethat at present seem to want it, but comfort andhelp them. Remember, Job suffered, and was af¬terward prosperous.And now to conclude, “ Experience keeps a dearschool; but fools will learn in no other, and scarcein thatfor, it is true, “ we may give advice, butwe cannot give conduct,” as poor Richard says.However, remember this, “ They that will not becounselled, cannot be helpedas poor Richardsays ; and further, that“ If you will not hear reason, she will rap your knuckles.”Thus the old gentleman ended his harangue.The people heard it, and approved the doctrine ;j and immediately practised the contrary, just as ifi it had been a common sermon j. for the auctioni opened, and they began to buy extravagantly, not-i withstanding all his cautions, and their own fear1 of taxes.I found the good man had thoroughly studiedmy Almanacks, and digested all I dropt on those: topics during the course of twenty-five years. The[ frequent mention he made of me must have tried: any one else ; but my vanity was wonderfully de¬lighted with it, though I was conscious, that not atenth part of the wisdom was my own, which heascribed to me, but rather the gleanings that I hadmade of the sense of all ages and nations. How-i ever, I resolved to be the better for the echo of it;{and, though I had at first determined to buy stufffor a new coat, I went away, resolved to wear myold one a little longer. Reader, if thou wilt do1 the same, thy profit will be as great as mine.I am, as ever, thine to serve thee,RICHARD SAUNDERS.THE WHISTLE;A True Story.When I was a child at seven years old, my friendson a holiday filled my pockets with coppers. I wentdirectly to a shop where they sold toys for children;and being charmed with the sound of a whistle that10I met by the way in the hands of another boy,voluntary offered him all my money for it. I the!came home, and went whistling all over the housimuch pleased with my whistle, but disturbingthe family. My brothers and sisters, and cousimunderstanding the bargain I had made, told me 1had given four times as much for it as it was wortllThis put me in mind what good things I might;have bought with the rest of the money ; and theylaughed at me so much for my folly, that I criedwith vexation ; and the reflection gave me mordchagrin than the whistle gave me pleasure.This, however, was afterwards of use to me, thaimpression continuing on my mind; so that oftenwhen I was tempted to buy some unnecessary thing!I said to myself, Don’t give too much for thewhistle ; and so I saved my money.As I grew up, came into the world, and observedthe actions of men, I thought I met with many,very many, who gave too much for the whistle.When I saw any one too ambitious of court fa¬vours, sacrificing his time in attendance on levees,his repose, his liberty, his virtue, and perhaps hisfriends, to attain it, I have said to myself, Thisman gives too much for his whistle.When I saw another fond of popularity, con¬stantly employing himself in political bustles, ne¬glecting his own affairs, and ruining them by thatneglect; He pays, indeed, says I, too much for hiswhistle.If 1 knew a miser, who gave up every kind ofcomfortable living, all the pleasure of doing goodto others, all the esteem of his fellow-citizens, andthe joys of benevolent friendship, for the sake ofaccumulating wealth ; Poor man, says I, you doindeed pay too much for your whistle.17I When. I meet a' man of pleasure, sacrificing everylaudable improvement of the mind, or of his for¬tune, to meet corporeal sensations : Mistaken man,r isays I, you are providing pain for yourself instead!of pleasure, you give too much for your whistle.If I see one fond of fine clothes, fine furniture,i fine equipages, all above his fortune, for which hej contracts debts, and ends his career in prisorf.;?Alas! says I, he has paid dear, very dear for hisIi whistle!When I see a beautiful sweet tempered girl! married to an ill-natured husband ; What a pity itis, says I, that she has paid so much for a whistle!In short, I conceived that great part of the mis-i eries of mankind were brought upon them by thefalse estimates they had made of the value of things,and by their giving too much for their whistleThe Advantages of Drunkenness.“ Oil! that man should put an enemy into their mouths tosteal away their brains.” Shakspeake.“ All the enemies on the earth do not destroy so many of theil human race, nor alienate so much property as drunkenness.”Lord Bacox.If you wish to be always thirsty, be a drunkard;for the oftener and more you drink, the oftener andmore thirsty you will be.If you seek to prevent your friends from raisingt you in the world, be a drunkard ; for that will de¬feat all their efforts.If you would effectually counteract your own1 attempts to do well, be a drunkard ; and you will( not be disannointed.18If you wish to repel the endeavours of the wholehuman race to raise you to character, credit, andprosperity, be a drunkard ; and you will assuredlytriumph.If you are determined to be poor, be a drunkard;and you will soon be ragged and pennyless.If you would wish ’to starve your family, be adrunkard ; for that will consume the means oftheir support.If you would be spunged on by knaves, be adrunkard ; and that will make their task easy.If you wish to be robbed, be a drunkard ; whichwill enable the thief to do it with more safety.If you wish to blunt your senses, be a drunkard;and you will soon be more stupid than an ass.If you would become a fool, be a drunkard ; andyou will Soon lose your understanding.If you wish to incapacitate yourself for rationalintercourse, be a drunkard ; for that will renderyou wholly unfit for it.If you wish all your prospects in life to beclouded, be a drunkard ; and they will be darkenough.If you would destroy your body, be a drunkard ;as drunkenness is the mother of disease.If you mean to ruin your soul, be a drunkardthat you may be excluded from heaven.If you are resolved on suicide, be a drunkard ;that being a sure mode of destruction.If you would expose both your folly and secrets,be a drunkard ; and they will soon run out whilethe liquor runs in.If you are plagued with great bodily strength, bea drunkard ; and it will soon be subdued by sopowerful an antagonist.If you would get rid of your money without19knowing liow, be a drunkard ; and it will vanishinsensibly.If you would have no other resource when pastlabour but a workhouse, be a drunkard; and youwill be unable to provide any.If you are determined to expel all domestic har¬mony from your house, be a drunkard ; and dis¬cord, with all her train, will soon enter.If you would be always under strong suspicion,be a drunkard ; for, little as you think it, all agreethat those who steal from themselves and familieswill rob others.If you would be reduced to the necessity ofshunning your creditors, be a drunkard; and youwill soon have reason to prefer the bye paths to thepublic streets.If you like the amusements of a court of con¬science, be a drunkard; and you may be oftengratified.If you would be a dead weight to the community,and “ cumber the ground” be a drunkard ; for thatwill render you houseless, helpless, burdensome,and expensive.If you would be a nuisance, be a drunkard ; forthe reproach of a drunkard is like that of a dung¬hill.If would be odious to your family and friends,be a drunkard ; and you will soon be more thandisagreeable.If you would be a pest to society, be a drunkard ;and you will bo avoided as infectious.If you dread reformation of your faults, be adrunkard ; and you will bo impervious to all ad¬monition. »If you would smash windows, break the peace,get your bones broken, tumble under carts and20horses, and be locked up in watch houses, be adrunkard; and it will be strange if you do notsucceed.Finally, if you are determined to be utterly de¬stroyed in estate, body, and soul, be a drunkard;and you will soon know that it is impossible toadopt a more effectual means to accomplish your—END.Drunkenness expels reason,—drowns the memory—defaces beauty—diminishes strength—inflamesthe blood—causes internal, external, and incurablewounds—is a witch to the senses, a devil to thesoul, a thief to the purse—the beggars companion,a wife’s woe, and children’s sorrow—makes a strongman weak, and a wise man a fool. He is worsethan a beast, and is a self-murderer, who drinks toother’s good health, and robs himself of his own.THE SMUGGLERS.A TALE.On the coast of Sussex there is a little village whichis almost secluded from the observation of theworld, and which is at a sufficient distance fromthe sea to bear the ordinary character of inlandscenery. It consists of a few scattered houses, andone or two little farms ;—its inhabitants are princi¬pally agricultural labourers ;—it has its small pa¬rish-church and its green and leafy burial place ;—and a very humble cottage, with an uncouth andhalf-obliterated sign, affords sufficient refreshmentto the contented peasants. On a neighbouring hillstands an old-fashioned windmill;—and from this21spot, which serves as a beacon to the mariner, thereis one of those magnificent prospects which are soiattractive to the reflecting mind. Here, during an'occasional visit to the coast have I often been riv-icted for hours, delighted to sit and watch the reced-ing vessel diminishing to a speck, and follow thecrew, in imagination, through their perilous courseover the trackless ocean.Some few years back, I one day encountered theproprietor of the ancient windmill. He was a veryyoung man, full of health and animation. That!ijdispenser of every blessing, Content, sat upon LisIbrow. His occupation afforded him an honest):|maintenance ;—and as his wishes were limited hisfears were few. He was besides just married.Earth has no greater happiness to bestow than theearly days of domestic intercourse ; when a youngpair have* realized their fondest anticipations—when, undisturbed by the growing cares of theworld, their most anxious wishes are to appearpleasing in each other’s eyes—when their livesshow like a beauteous morning of spring, which isto lead them to a genial summer, and a rich autumn.The winter of their years is then too far removedto be regarded with apprehension.The young miller invited me to his cottage ;—Iloved the sight of human happiness too much todecline his civility. I found there a modest andagreeable woman, devoted to the duty of promotingthe welfare and comfort of the man to whom shehad given her heart. I lifted up my thoughts toheaven in thankfulness for the blessings which Godbestows upon his creatures ;—and I prayed that aday of sorrow might not come across the simple andinnocent course of this happy couple.In two years I again visited this part of the22country ;—and my first steps were almost involun¬tarily directed to the windmill. > As I climbed thehill my steps had all the alacrity of one who ex¬pects a pleasure ; and a slight exertion brought meto the door of the once happy cottage. It wasclosed. The little garden was covered with wTeeds;—the honeysuckle that was so neatly trailed roundthe porch almost choked the entrance it was meantto adorn ;—the windows wrere broken ;—there wasno sound of life about the habitation. I hurried tothe windmill. Its sails were idle ;—the crazy fab¬ric shivered in the gale. I felt a foreboding ofevil, and I descended the hill with steps infinitelyslower than those which had carried me to itssummit.I could not pass through the village withoutmaking an anxious inquiry about the fortunes ofJohn Anderson, the miller. I rested at the smallpublic-house. The landlord was of a communicativetemper; and I therefore lost little time in leadinghim to the subject of my curiosity. Immediatelythat I mentioned the name of the young man, thekind host exclaimed, with an unaffected sigh, “ Ah,sir, that’s a very sad story.” At the instant afemale, in decent mourning, carrying a little child,passed the window. I looked in her face—it waspale and shrivelled—not a feature called up an oldrecollection. The landlord shrunk back ;—anddrawing me towards him in a hurried whisper, said,“ That is John Anderson’s widow—she lives onlyfor her child—and will soon join him in thechurch-yard yonder.”I saw in the tone and manner with which thesewords were pronounced that there was somethingextraordinary in the circumstances of the youngmiller’s death. The master of the public-house |23perceived that I was interested, and proposed toinform me of the unhappy occasion that had con-1 signed the healthful and industrious John Ander-■ son to a premature grave. His narrative was longt and rambling ;—but the following is the substanceof the unhappy story :—The miller had been married about six months,I when a sea-faring stranger came to lodge at the/ village. He was a man above the ordinary appear-| ance of sailors; and spoke as one used to command.| He was of very strong passions, which he occasion-i ally excited by intoxication ;—but he mixed littleI with the villagers, and appeared to have a greatcontempt for their habits and understandings. JohnAnderson alone pleased him. He would frequentlywalk to his mill, where he would pass long winterevenings in conversation with the youthful pair,filling them with admiration of his courage, andthe perils he had sustained. The stranger fre¬quently declared, that it was a shame so fine a youthas Anderson should be pent up for lifo in a crazymill;—that he could shew him the way to honourand riches ;—and that his courage and addressr, would win for him the proudest distinctions. ItIwas thus that the once-contented young man gra¬dually acquired a dislike of his occupation ; and, asa natural consequence, he was less industrious. Achange in the markets about the same time deprivedhim of a considerable portion of his little savings ;he did not attempt to redeem his loss by increasedexertion, but was frequently from home, and some¬times left his wife alone to hear the hollow windwhistle through their solitary and exposed cottage.It was late on an evening in the dreariest seasonI of the year, that Anderson and the Captain (for sothe villagers called the stranger) came in a hurried24Tvay to the public-house. They sat for some timedrinking freely. The spirits of the stranger becameelevated at every draught to a fearful sort of des¬peration ;—Anderson attempted to be gay, but asigh occasionally escaped him, and he then seizedthe glass with a frantic haste. He at last became,what the landlord had never before seen, half intox¬icated. A whistle was heard without. The stran¬ger instantly grew collected; and in a minute threwoff the influence of the liquor. He said, in a lowbut determined voice to Anderson, “ It is time.”They left the _ house. The landlord suspectedthat something would bo wrong, and sat up till alate hour. It was near midnight when he heardfiring. Ho rushed, with some country people, inthe direction of the sound, and found on the beacha small party of revenue-officers engaged with agang of smugglers. The officers being overpoweredwith numbers made a hasty retreat; and the smug¬glers speedily embarked. The landlord went to thebeach when all was quiet, and he there found theunhappy Anderson mortally wounded.The dying man had sufficient strength to declare,that he had been induced that fatal night, for thefirst time, to engage in the desperate career of asmuggler. “ He had justly forfeited his life,” hesaid, “ to his abandonment of the peaceful and vir¬tuous course which a wise Providence had markedout for him. His wife” death relieved him ofhis bitterest recollection. The scene that followedat the cottage I cannot attempt to describe. Isaw the havoc which that scene had produced. Ireturned home, I hope, a wiser and a better man.“ Let him who standeth take heed lest he fall.”FINIS.