THEHUNT INGOFV ' .. . *' ■ * . ’ • ■ 'CHEVY-GHAGE.* #• - . » . • r . . . . •CPAISLEY :ORAL d bj |.* Neil son»F SCOTLANI'NbuRG^1811.A’The Hunting of Chevy-ChafeGQD profper loug our noble King,f,mr lives and faieties all,A wofadjaunting once there d;din Chevy Chafe befal.To drive the deer with hound'a’rfd horn,Earl Piercy toek his way,The child may rue thgt was unborn.the hunting of that d.ay.The ftout Earl or Ner11;unrber 1 and •a vow to God did make, ,- * *Elis pleafure in the. Scotti-h \v09dsthree fummer days to take ;The choicert harts of Chevy,Cbateto kill and bear away,T'heCe tidings to Earl Douglas’Came.;lo.S^otkiml where Be layiWho lent Earl Eiercy prefhit word,.he would prevent the (port,The Englidr Earl hot.fearitig him,did to the woovds refort,With twenty hundred bow-men bo!«4-all chofen men uf mighty 4Who knew full well, in time of need,to aim their drafts aright,I he gallant grey houndft fwifty r;h,to chace the tallow deer.On Monday they began to- hunt,when day light'did appear iAnd long before high^iQpn, they-iiad?an hundred fat bucks flajn, . * ,Then, having din’d, the rovers wentto rekfe them no again.( 3 )Five bow-men amfter’d bo the hi!!#v/ell able tt> endure;a ?heir backlides all, \vith> fpecial cars,p that day were guarded fure.j ;?he' hounds ran fwiftly through the wood,,b the nimble deer to take ;) And with their cries the hills and dalesan echo {brill did make.'lari Piercy to the quarry went,I to view the fallow deer ;•Juoth he,. Earl Douglas promifedthis day to meet me here ;ut if I thought he would not come,no longer would I ftay. • ••i7ith that a brave voting gentleman,thus to the Earl did fay,o'! yonder doth Ear! Douglas come,his men in armour bright,ill fifteen hundred Scottifia {pears,all marching in our fight ;1 pleafant men of Teviotdale,dwell by the river Tweed,hen ceafe your fport, Earl Piercy cryM,and take your bows with fpeed;ad now with me, my countrymen,your courage forth advance 5r there was ne’er a champion yet,in Scotland or in France,at ever did on horfeback come,but if my hap it were,urft encounter m.‘.n for man,ith him to break a fpe&r.rd'Douglas da a milk-white fteed,oft like a Baron bold, i-de foremoft of the company,hofe armour flione lifcf gold._/ ( •; )Show me, faid he, whofe men _ j. be,’ that hunt fo boldly here !That, without my confent, do chace,.and kill my fallow deerThe firft man that did anfwer make.,was noble Piercy he.Who faid,. We lift not to declare,nor {how whofe men we be;Yet we will fpend our deareft blood,.the choiceft harts to flay,Then Douglas fwore a fclema oath,and thus in rage did fay.Ere thus I will out-brp.ved be,one of us two fliali die;I know thee well, an Earl thou art 5Lord Piercy, fo am 1Biit truft me, kiercy, pity it were,-and great offence-to killAny of thefe our harmkfs men,1 for they have done no ill.Let me and thee-the battle try,| and fet our men afide •, *Accurs’d be he, LordsPiercy u.id,by whom this, is denied.Then licpt a gallant ’Sfyitire forth,;1 Withrington by name ;Wrho faid he would rot have it toldto Hctify his King for ihamojThat ,:’er my Captain fought ca foot,and I (food locking on wYou be two Earls, lard WUUringtoujanu ! a ’hquire alone ;I’ll do the beii that I can do,.white 1 have power to hand ; ; >While I have power to wield my fwordLlf fight with heart and hand.C 5 )Our Scottiih archeiv, bent their bows,their hearts were good and true-,At the fint flight of -iw.-s lent,they fouricu-re iingliili dewiitTo drive the deer vn it houisd and hornDouglas bade on the bent,;A Captain mov’d with rnukle pride,the fpears in fliivers, went;They clos’d full faft 6d every fide,no flacknefs there was found,|iAd'.many a gallant geniheman"lay gaQring on. the ground.5 ! bht it was a'grief to fee,pnd lihewife for fo hear,he cries of men lying in.their gbre,and fcistter’d here ancf there !t lafi; the lb two ftout lords did meet,like chieftans o( great might;ike Hons mov’d,, they fear'd no Lord,they made a cruel fight,hey fought until they both did fweat,with fwor.ds of temper’d fteel,ntil the blood, nite drops of rain,they trial'ling down did feel,ield thee, Lord'Piercy, Douglas faid,in faith L V/ill thee bring, .here thou {halt liigh advanced be,by James our Scottifli King.v/ ranfom i wilt freely give, .aand this report of thee,rou art'the moft couragiotsV Knighthat ever I did fee., Douglas, quoth Lord Fiercy then,hy profer I do fcorn,nil not yield to any Scof;hat ever yet was born.»c 6 r •/ith that there came-an arrow keen,out Ot an Engliih bow,/hich Irruck X^ord Douglas to the heart,i a deep and deadly blow;/ho never fpoke more words than thefe,! fight op, my merry men all jor why my life is at an end.Lord Piercy fees me fall..hen leaving life,-Lord Piercy tooktho dead man by the hand, *,nd find, Lord Douglas, for thy life,would X had .loft my land.* ! but njy very heart doth bleedwith foi row for thy lake ;or lure a more renowned Knightmifchance did never take.„ Knight among the Scots there waswho faw hail IXeuglas die, .■;ho ih-aight ir. wrath did vow revengeupon the •Lari Piercy.!ir Vlugh'Montgomery he was call'd,j who with a fpear full bright,V'til' mounted on a gallant heed,*I rode fiercely through the fight.'le pall the Lnglifii archers all,1 without a dread or fear,ind through Lari Piercy's bcJcly^hen,he thruft his hateful fpeariVith luch a veheintpt tores akd m.-ghhj his body he did gorei he {pear went through the other fide, fong doth yard aad more.*0 thus did bfcth thefe poblss die’,whofe courage none could It-un,.n Lflgiilh archer then perceiv’dhis noble Lord was flain 5( 7 )He liad a bov? beat in bis hand,made of a trufty tree,An arrow of a cloth’s yard lengthunto the head drew bs ; .Againfl: Sir Hugh Montgomery then,• fo right his fliaft he fet,The grey goofe wings that were tl'.ereon=,in his heart’s blood were wet.The. fight did laft from break of daytill fetting of t.b'e fun, •For when they rung the evening peh,the battle fcarce was done-With the Lord Fiercy there wps flam.Sir John of Ogorton,Sir Robert Ratcliff and Sir John,Sir James that bold Baron,Sir George, and a’«o good Sir Hugh,both Knights of good account •,Good Sir Ralph Raby there was ilajn,whofe prowefs did furmount. .For Withrin'gtcm I needs mu ft wail,as one in dole/ul dumpedFor when his legs were {'mitten off,he fought upon the ftumps.|And with Earl Douglas there,was fain.Sir Hugh Montgomery;[Sir Charles Murray, that from the Celd-one foot would never fly.Sir Charles Murray of Ratcliff toe,his lifter’s fon was he;|>ir David Lamb fo well efteem’d, , ..yet faved'could not be. •nd the'Lord Maxwell iaJiL^vvif;,did with Earl Douglas die,■/V)f fifteen'hundred Scottithwent home butOl 4Jiaeartyy>'cohih.r! 3I0Ni.( 3 )OF twenty hundred Enp/iiParnen,fcafce fiicy-five did flee, -fThe reft were {lain in Chevy-Chace,under the Green-wood tree.Next day dill many widows come,their hufbands to bewail,They waih’J their wounds in brintfu tears,but all could, not prevail. •Their bodies bath’d in,purple blood,they carry hi them away,They kifs’d'them dead a thoufarid times,when they were cold as clay ^ . .The news were brought to Edinburgh,where Scotland’s King.did reign.That brave Earl Douglas fuddcniywas with an prrov.* (lainNow God be with him faid our King,fince it cannot better be,I truft, l have in my realm,five hundred good as he.like "tidings to King Henry came,within a# lliort a ipgce.That Piercy of Northumberlandwas ilain at Chcvy-Chace _ * j0 heavy hews! King Henry Said,England can wit^.eis be, a1 hove not any Captain mors,of tuen account as lue. . JNow of the re{^ of fmali account,did many hundreds die •, IThus ends the hunt ot Chevy-Cnace,made i.v‘the Earl Piercy.God lave the King, and bleis the Laud,with plenty, joy, and p?acc,j*.r.'l graht henceforth that foul debates,'twist noblemen may ceafe. ^ J. Neilfe ", printer“1a*