THEy/jclrr-f> .«S~45-.»?S&KZIe✓avXiand WONDERFUL^I C T I O N SOf the Reverend Martyr,Mr CHRISTOPHER LOVE,Minifler of the Cofpel at Lawrence-Jury London^was beheaded on T'cwer-HiiR iu the time of OliverCromwell’s Government of England ; giving an Ac- 01covnt of Babylon's Fall, or the defntefion of Fopery, 0\and in that glorious event, a general Reformation over 0/all the world.To which is Added, ^Two Letters from his Wife to him a little before his Death' 'J%with his Letter and direftions to her again ; The 22d of -jdAngstjl, 1651. the day of his glorification. *\'AT\* T%ff0--5/ p' ^vRvFIPnnred and Entered in Xewry (Price Onc-Pezmy. pfI S|5^"’iV fd' "fgj: f-*'0/I( 3 )■ i The Wonderful PredilUons of Mr Christopher Lov'iiAFew nighrs after he was fentenc’d to be behead *d onTower Hill, whichwas on the 22d day of Augnft, inthe year 1651, which was ten days before his appointed1! time, by the fentence he received at the bar, being one nightiivifited by two intimate acquaintances, orbofom friends, as. he himfeif call’1 them, in their private conference they beganto complain to him of the cruelty of the times, and the ma-,; lice and ufage of the time lerving brethren, to which MrJ! Love anl’wered, And think you this an evil time : No, no,1 this is the very time when grace and true godlinefs can beJ diftinguilhed from hypocriiy, many have followed Chrift.I hitherto for the loaves, and are jiow turned back becaufe ofthe roughnefs of the way, aud the fore trial and tribulation I| met with by others that are gone before them ? There are ;i many in London at this very day, who think to go to heaven |iin there gilded coaches, and have denied Chriftk. caufe be-Ifore man (againfl: whom I am now witnefs) and Chrift inhis never failing word has promifed to deny all fuch before :his Father and the holy angels, this is the time to difcerniiljbetween him that ferveth God, and him that ferveth him ’nor, they formerly were my familiar acquaintances in fel-h wfbip and IWet converfe, I lent this day to have a few jwords of (hem here in he prifon, but they would not come, ;for their counicnance is fallen, their coniciences woundi d,they cannot look me in the face, bccaule I knew of theirrefolurion, and was witnefs of their per juration. But, ahlhow will they look the blefled of J fus in the face in them^-tia g of the rcfurrection what anfwer or excufe will it'„ey have for what they have done ? O foolifti people 1 who|think to efcape the crois, and come to the crown; but I tellyou nay, you muft all luiTer perfecution, who follow the|Lamb, we muft be hated of all nations f or Clu ill's fake, we Scome thro’ great tribulation, thro’ the fiery furnace of.jatti1 ilion, before we can enter the land of joy and felicity; 1[know you nor th 1 the louls of thole that were 11..in for theteilimony of Jefns, are placet! under the altar ? Happy, ha; -k|py are thefe men at this day and ever Inal! be hanpy, vvuo1^^(4); fuffer for Chrill's fake in a i ight and charitable way, throughlove to his caufe, and honefty of hcartr1 not thro’ pride andi hypocrily, without the root of the matter ; to have it faid,they died martyrs, thefe are they who will mils their mark,and thofe who denied the call, and turned back lltall never| have the honour to find it. 1 am now appointed out by manyj to be in a deftitnte and a forlorn condition ; but would noti exchange my eftate, no not for all the kingdoms of the; world; no, nor for all the glory that’s on the earth: I find| my Redeemer s love ftronger in my bonds than ever I didi in the days of m> liberty therefore I hold living here in{ this wor'd as death ittelf. 1 am as full of love and joy of theT holy pint, as ever a bottle was filled with new wine I am1 ready ro cry out, ‘ The Spirit of the Lord ood is upon mebut I wP not take it upon me to prophely neverthelefs, the> .Spirit of the -Lord caufeth me to-utter; this ufurpcd authori-| ty, row in the hands of Cromwell, firall fliortly be at attend,‘ Fngland lliall be bhffed with meek kings, and mild govern-itments, powerful preachers, and dull hearers ; good ferTTions. to them will be as mufic to a fleepy man, they mall hear, but■ not underltand, nor lay the word to heart, to praclife it in’ theii fives, to walk by it O England, thou lhall wax old- in wickednefs, thy fins abound like Sodom thy voluptoufnefsi fitall cry aloud for Vengeance; the Lord lhall threaten andchaftife thee, yet in mercy and love will he look upon thofethat .fear him. and call upon his name; he will fpare and, lave them alive in the days of his anger, when the wickedlhall be lifted from amongft you, as the chaff is lifted amongftthe wheat: For out of thee, O kngland, (hall a bright ftararife, whofe light and voice lhall make the heathen to quakeand knock under, with fubmiflion to the gofpel of Jefus ; he. lhall be as a fort of thunder in the ears of the wicked ; as alantborn to the Jews, to lead then^, to the knowledge ofJeftts Chrilf, the only Son of GocLj and true Meffiah, whom 1jthey fo lone miflrafted ; for th> Ami w ork fpoken of by theyipoftle, which the Lord is to Wilit upon the earth, iafihe/latter age of the world, canitef ,be far off Obler»^mydear friends, while you live, mjr.’talculation of the dates intlnsbook of the Revelation, and^J^anicl win h the Spirit ofthe Lord led me into, for the Lvr^ will refcal it to fome of■ mC s )his own, ere that time come, for the nearer the time is. the .fouls lhall be taken away, aud more and more (hall be revea-led to God s people ; for tne Lord doth nothin without hereveal it, by Ills Spirit to his fervants the prophets: he del-troy d not the old world, without the knowledge ol Noah,he did not overthro jv Sodom and Gommorah without theknowled ge of Abraham I do not mean now', that any new'prophet (hail arife, but tile Lord by his Spirit, Inallcaufe knowledge to abound amongft his people, wherebythe old prophecies lhah be- clearly and pert Ctly utider-ftood. And I die in that thought, and really believe,that my calculation on the Revelation by St John, andthe prophecy which St {erome copied <11, and tranila-ted out of the Hebrew language, as it is written on Se'h spiliar in Damafus, which pillar inlaid to have Rood fmcebefore the flood, and was built h.y-.fteih Adam’s Ion andwrtrten by Knoch the prophet; as likew’fe the holy pre*cepts, whereby the patriarchs walked before the law was;given to Mofes, which was alfo engraven on the faid pillar,'whereof many Jews have copies, in their own language,written on parchment, and engraven on brafs and copper,;but the alteration of the date makes them to flagger at it,not knowing that the dates were to be a’tered by the birthof Ghrifl Firfl, this prophecy is intitled, ‘ A fliort work ofthe Lord’s in the latter age of the world.’ Great earth¬quakes and commotions by lea and land lhall come in theyear of God 1779, great wars in Germany and America1780; the deftruftion of Popery, or Eabylon s fall, in theyear 1790; God will be known by many in the year 1 795 ;this will produce a great man. The ftars will wander, andthe moon turn as B'ood in 1800. Africa, Afia. and Ameri¬ca, will tremble in 1783 a great earthquake over the wholeworld, in 1785, God will be univerlally known by all. Thena general reformation and peace for ever, when the peoplelhall learn war no more, happy is the man that iiveth to feethis day.X++++XX+X+X+X+X-i-X+X+X + -«-r'LiJmrl 6 )The firjl Letter of Mrs. Love to her Husband.s \V E E T-H E A R T.X) ^fore / write further, I fccfeech you to think not that itis your wife that now' writeth to you : I hope thou hadfreely given up thy wife amt children to the Lord God, thatlaid. Jer. shi it- ‘ Leave thy fatherlefs children I will‘ prelerve them alive, and let thy widows trull in me ’ Othat the Lord would keep thee from having one troubledthought about thv relations, I defire to give thee freely upinto tiie Father’s hands and not only look upon it as acrown of glory for thee to die for Clirid, but as an honourto me, that I fhoulcrfb^ve a hufband to leave for Clirid. Idare not fpeak to thee, nor have a thought within myfelfof my unlpeakable lofs, hut w'holly keep my eye fixed up¬on thy unfpeakable and inconceivable gain. Thou leavedbut a liuful mortal wife, to be everlallingly married to theKing of glory; thou leaved but children, and brethern,and liders, to go to the Lord Jefus thy elded brother ;thou leaved friends to go to the enjoyment of holy angels,and to the fpirits of jud men made perfeft; thou doll butleave earth for heaven ; and if natural affeftions begin torife I hope that fpirit of grace that is within thee willquell them, and knowing that all things here below' are butdung and drofs in comparifon of thefe things above : Iknow thon keeped thy eye, fixed upon the hope of glorywhich makes thee.to trample upon the lofs of earth.My dear, I know that God hath not only prepared gloryfor thee, and thee for it, but I am perfuaded he will fweet-en the w-ay for thee to come to the enjoyment cf it : Andwhen thou art putting on thy cloaths that morning, thinkthou art putting on thy wedding cloaths, to go to be mar¬ried to thy Redeemer : when the meilenger of death com-eth to theV, let him not be dreadful, but look upon Jfim as.the meflenger that bringeth thee good tidings of r'etcrnallife : When thou goed up to the fcaffold, think W'hqy thoutolded me, it was but thy chariot to draw th^e to thy Fa-ther’s houfe, * and when thou layeft dcrivn thy dear head,to receive thy Father’s flroke, remember what thou laidftjto me:’ That though thy head were fevered from thy body,y t thy foul (hall foon be united to Jefus Chrift, thy head,,in heaven. And though it may feem bitter, that by the hands,of men we are parted a little Iboner than otherwife wejii would have been, yet Idt* us consider, ’tis the decree andiwill of the Father, and befides, we could not have livvclmuch longer together, and it will not be long e’er ;dal}enjoy one another in heaven. Oh ! let us comfort one ano-;i ther with thefe Giyings O be comforted, it is but a littlejftroke, e'er thou (h ilt be ‘ where the weary are at red, andi ‘ where the wicked (hall ceafe from trunblin?; thee.’ Oh {:remember that though thou eat thy dinner with bitter herbsj,yet thou (halt have a joyful flipper with Jefis Chrift arnight. And, my dear, by what I write to thee I do not un¬dertake to be a teacher of thee; for this co^ifprt I havereceived of the Lord by thee. I hear a warra'i^ ;is come tethe lieutenant, I am ready to think it may be concerning: thee, to fend thee to thy journey’s end to morrow, and tha;becaufe they may poffibly be kindred if they ftay till th<day appointed ; but I am perfuaded, thou art fo far froirbeing afraid of. it, that thou doll: long for the day, whicl(next under God) to hear of thy wiifingnefs to die, will b»the greateft comfort in the world. T can write no more, bucommit thee to the hands of that God, with whom theand I e re long fliall be. Farewell, Farewell.Jully ir, i6jr. Mary LOVf* ' ' ' cmP. S. One comfort I would.have thee carry to thy gravif ever God did good to my foul, thou waft the chief inftamant of it, tor I never looked atter God till I faw thy face.A fecond Let ter of M rs Love to her Husband*My Heavenly Dear. ,I Call thee fo, becaufe God hath put heaven into thee, !>'tore he haih taken thee to heaven: Thou now behold’ C 3 )and Chrift, and glory, asinag’afs, but to-morrowow fwallowed up thy thoughts with the joys of heaven,'Ut e’er long thou (halt be fully fwallowed up in the enjoy-aent of heaven O marvel not there fhould be fuch quiet-llpls and calmnefs in thv 1’pirit, whilit thou art railing into,his tempeftious ftorm, becaufe thou perceiveif, bv tne eyejr faith, a haven of reft, where thou fhalt be with Chrift ihelory of heaven O Hit up thy head with joy, when thou| jyeft it upon the block, in the thoughts of this, that thoutrt laying thy head to reft in thy Saviour s bolom, which,yrhen thou fiia t awake, fltall be crowned, not with an earth-fr Cx'own rliat fadeth away, but with an heavenly crown oftjory. O be not difcouraged, when thou (halt fee a guard11 foldiers triumphing with their trumpets about thee ; butfif up thy head, and thou fhalt behold God with a guardangels, his holy angels, triumphing for the receiving theeifto glory O ! be not difcouraged at the fceffs and re¬roaches thou may eft meet with in thy fhort way to hea->511 ; for be- adored, that God will not only glorify thy foul'id body in heaven, but he will as lure make thy memorytorious upon earth. Oh ! let not one troubled thought forty wife and babes arife within thee, thy God will be ourod and portion, he will be a hufband to thy widow, andfather to thy children; the grace of thy God will be luf-:ient for us. - Now, my dear, I defire willingly and freelyrefign up my right of thee to my Father, and thy Fa-rer who hath the greateft part and intergft in thee Thoughen have feperatcd us for a time, yet our merciful Godill bring us together again, where we fliall eternally en-y one another, never to feperate more ; and let me hear;,w God bears up thy heart, and let me tafte of the coui-[rts th it fupport thee that they may, be as pillars of mar-je to bear up my heart I can write no more.Farewell farewe'l. My Dear, till we (hall meet wheree lhall bid farewell no mote, till which time, I leave theethe hands of a tender hearted Father, and do the heft tillhall reft with the in heaven, Mary L O V L.A letter from Mr CHRISTOPHER LOVE to his Wife.My moji gracious beloved.[am now going from a prifon to a palace, I have finifiiedmy work I am now going to receive my wages, I am go¬ing to heaven, where are two of my children, and leaving■on on earth, where there are three of rny babes : Thetewo above need not my care, b'.rt rite three below needours; it comforts me to think, two of my children are inhe boiom of Abraham, and three of them will be in the.irms apd care of inch a tender and godly mother 1 knowf'on are a woman of a forrowful fpirit, yet be comforted,Rough your-iorrows he great for your hulband going outjf the " orld, yet your pains (hall be the lefs in bringingtour child into the world, you ihall be a joyful mother,rhongh yen be a fad widow; God hath many'mercies in[lore for you : The prayer of a daying lu.lband for you willrot be lolb To my lhanie 1 fpeak it, I never prayed lor,ou at liberty, as I have do te in priUin. 1 cannot writerutch, bin I have a few practical counfels to leave with you,iz.ill Keep under a found, orthodox, foul fearching minif-t ery. Oh 1 there are many deceivers goneout into tne world,,tint Chrift’s fheep know his voice, and a ft ranger they willi ot follow Attend any minifter that teachetti the way ofliod, ip truth, and follow Solomon’s advice, Prov. xix. J7,; 2dly, Bring up your children in the knowledge and ad¬monition of the Lord The mother ought to he a teacherH the father’s abfe nee, Prov. xxxi i. “ The words that:i his mother taught him,” And Timothy was indructed byl|is grandmother, i. Tim. i. 5.i 3dly, Pray in your family daily, that yours may be in the|umber of the families who call upon God.4thly, L1)bpur for a meek and quiet fpirit, which, in/theht oi God, is of great price, 1. Pet. jii. 4.Jtbly, Pore not on the comforts you want, but upon theChritlkm reader obferve by the matter, and from9 S<> to the 10 and come back to the 11 and look[the 1-4 a'gl 15 as thefe pages were mifplaced.—( 10 )ffrr.ercies you have, look rather at God’s end in alHt&ing,| them to the meniure and degree of your affliedon«L,6tiily, Lahour to clear up your evidence for heaven,jawhen God takes from you the comfort of earth, lo that asou r fuiiermgs do abound, your confolation in Chrilt mayabound much more, 2. Cor i. 5.Though it be goed. to maintain a holy jealoufy of the de-ceithilnefs of the heart, yet it is ill for you to cberifh fearsand doubts touching the truth of your graces : It ever I hadconhdeuce touching t e grace of another, I have confidenceof grace in you, as Peter laid of Syivanos, I am perfuadedthat this is the grace of God, wherein ye ffand 1 Pet.ver.12.B 7c!>.ly, O, my clear foul ! wherefore doff thou doubt,woo e heart has been upright, whofe walking has been ho¬ly, &c I could venture, my foul, this-day, in thy foul sftead, futh a confidence-have I in you.8;h!y, When veu find your heart fecure, prefiimptuousand proud, then pore upon corruption more than grace;then luck upon your graces without your infirmities.9tii:y, Study tne covenant of grace, and merits of Chrift,and ie tron ded if jon can: yon are interelfed in fuch a co¬venant that accepts-purj.oles for performances, deiiresior-ideeds, finceriry for perfecliot*, the righteoufiiefs of another*viz, that of jefus Chrift, as it were .our own alone, Oil,mv love! reft tnou iu the love of (G>m, in the boiom ofChrilt. .tothly. Swallow «tp your will in the will of God. it is a'bitier cap wje are to drink, but it. is the cup our Father hathput into our hands When Paul was to fuffer at Jeruliilem:the Chriftians would fay, The v}\ll of the Lord he done Oh !fay ye fo when I go to Power-Hid, The will of the Lord bedoneifthly, Rejoice in my joy. To mourn for me inordinate-fe)y, argues, tuat you either envy or fufpect my happinefs«|The joy of the Lord is my flrength, Oh ! let it beyourSljalfo, Dear wife, farewel, I will call thee wife no more. It{hall fee thy face no more, yet I am not much troubled; forinow I am going to meet the bridegroom, the Lord Jefus, ti*:whom I fhall be eternally marriedlithly, Rcfufe nor to marry, when God offers yon a faki|kCl:jj    V II , .opportunity, but be fure ou mart) in the Lord, und one ofa good difpolxtion that lie may not grieve ) ou, and of a com¬fortable live!} hood in ihe world. jFarewel. dear ove, and ag.in I fav, Farewel the I ordJefus be with your fpirit, the Vaker of heaven and eart i liea hufband to you, and the Father of our Lord Jefu^ Chrift!be a Father to your children oo prays.Your dayinp, yet mod: affectionate friend till death.From the Tower of London,Augiilt iad, i6^t the dayof my glorif.cacion.CHRISTOPHEROVE.Mr Cbriflopher Love’s la ft -words on thefcaff old were mojt pathetic and weighty.'i' L \ oALT H O’ (laid he) there be but little between meand death, yet this bears up my heart, there isi little between me and heaven. It comforted Dr Taylorlithe martyr, when he was griisg to execution, that therewere but two liiles between him and his father's houfe ;there is a leffer way between me and my father’s houfe,but two fteps between me and glory. It Is but lyinglown upon that block, and I fhall afeend upon a throne*am this day failing towards the ocean of eternityhrough a rough pafTage to my heaven of reft through <red feu to the promised land. Methinks I hear God V( 12 )fay to me, as he did to Mofes, Go up to the mountN^bo and die there ; lb <o me, go up t > To'vet hili, andd.e,there. Ifiic laid to Iiimlelf, that he was old* andj yet he'know n t tne day of his death : but I c inn tyfo ; I am young and yet I know die day of my .v ,and I it now ihe kind of my dear b, and the place of mydeath dfo. I am put 10 luch a kind ot death, as tv'ofamous pr 'achers of the gofpel were put to before me ;Joho^th baptift, and Paul the apcftle, they were bothbeheaded. I read alfo in R v xx. 4. The fonts were.beheaded fot tne word of God. and teffimony o Jems.JBu herein is the ddadvantage which I ly under in diethough's of many ; they judge that 1 fuffer not for theword of God, or for confcience, but for meddling withRate-matters. To this I fhill briefly fay, that it is anold trick of Satan, to impute the caufe ol God’s peoplesfuflerings, to be comrivements againft the Hate ; when,in trutit, it is their religion and conlcitnce they areperncuccd for. The rulers of Ifrael would have putJer my to death upon a civil account, though indeed itwas only the truth of his prophecy that made the rulersangry with him: and yet upon a civil account th ypretend he muft die, becaufe he fell away to the Chal¬deans, and would have brought in foreign forces to in-vnde titem. The fame thing is laid to my charge, ofwhich 1 am as innocent as Jeremy was. So P iul, thoughhe did but preach Jefus Chrift, yet his enemies wouldhad him put to death, under pretence that he was amover of {'edition. Upon a civil account my life ispretended 10 be taken away ; whereas it is, becaufe 11pu fue my covenant, and will not proflitute my princi-.jdies and confcience to the ambition and lufl: of man. Ihad rather di? a covenant-keeper, than live a covenant-breaker. Beloved, I am this day making a double exchange; 1 am changing a pulpit for a fcaftbld, and( ).fcaffoid for a throne; and I might add a third, I an^changing the preience of this numerous mu'ritude onTower-hill, for the innumerable company of aio^s andangels in heaven, the holy hill of Zionand I amchanging a guard of foldiers for a guard of angels,which will receive me, and carry me to Abraham’sbofom. This fcaffoid is the beft pulpit that ever Ipreached in ; in my church-pulpit, God through hisgrace made me an inftrument to bring others to heaven;but in this pulpit, he will bring me to heaven.—After¬wards, he faid, Though my blood be not the blood ofi nobles, yet it is chriftian blood, Minifters blood, yeai more, it is alfo innocent blood. I magnify the richesi of God’s mercy and grace towards me, that I who was(born in Wales, an obfeure country, and of obfeureparents, fhould be fingled out an honourable fuffering.For the firft fourteen years of my life, I never heard afermon preached ; yet in the fifteenth year of my life,i, it pleafed God to convert me. Bleffed be God, who[not only made me a chrifiian, but alfo a Minifter,judging me faithful and putting me into the miniftry,which is my glory. I had rather be a Preacher in aKpulpit, than a Prince upon a throne ; 1 had rather bei an inftrument to bring fouls to heaven, than that all((nations fhould bring tribute to me.—Formerly (faid he)j l have been under a fpirit of bondage ; yea. fometimesI have had more fear in drawing out a tooth, than[now I have for cutting off my head. When fear waspon me, death was not near; now, when death isear to me, my fear is evanifhed.—I am comforted inhis, though men kill me, they cannot damn me ; tho*hey thurft me out of the world yet can they not fhutc out ot heaven. When I have fhed my blood, I ex-eft the full declaration of the remiflton of fins through-e blood of Jefus Chrift. I am going to my Idng-honie,/. f 14 )and ye to vonr fKort-homes ; but I fliall be at ray home,before ve be at jours —He prayed, that, feeing be wascalled to do the work which he never did, he mighthave the ftrengtk which he never had..Dr Wild in Ins Elegy bath tbcfe linesy uponMr LO/E.163c*>itA>Ot>ooci5<3ocooo‘ wi-METHINKS I heard beheaed faints above,Call to each other, Sirs, make room for LOVE.^Who when he came to tread the fatal ftage,(Which provd his glory, and his en’mies rage) .t| His blood ne’er run to’s heart; Chrift’s blood was there,plectlving it : His own was all to fpare ;vWhuh, rifing in his cheeks, did feem to fiy,is this the blood you thirft for l Tuk’t I pray, ",■ Spectators in his looks fuch life did fee.That they appearid more like to die than h". <Lightnings, which fill’d the Air with blazing light,5 Did ferve tor Torches at that diOual night : ,(j In which, and all next day for many hours,vv Heav’n gron’d in thunder, and did weep in fliovv’rs :j Nor do I wonder, th t God thunderld fo,r" When Boanerges murder’d lay below.. %( )i VS>» ■<£>> t^S>> i<^ CiSPo t<^-,Some Meditations for drooping Rilievers 'whendeath is near. iTRAVELLERS, who have met with manyftorms, troubles and dangers in their journeys.rejoice when they come near their own country ; and(hall not I a ftranger and pilgrim, that hath been longvvandring in a wildernefs, be glad when I come near mybiefled home, my dear friends, and eternal habitation?With what, cheerfulnets do fome women endure thepains of child-bearing, being fupported with the hopesof a child’s being bom in the world ? And what is thejoy of a man-child being brought into this finful antimiferable world, to the joy of a fanftified loui’s beingwrought out of it into heaven for ever i It is pleafantwhen the hard winter goeth over, the mefiengers of thefpring, ,the finging of birds doth come : and (halt not1 reird'-e when ficknefs and forerunners of death dotell m , that the winter of my darknels and trouble ispaft, and the fummer of my eternal light and joys is at1 „. What though death be the king of terrors ? Is notglorious Chrift the King of comforts ? Have not I metalready with this blefied King : and why ihould I fearto meet with the other ? O let my ftrength and lupportat this time come from ChtiiVmy covenanted Redeemer/whenfor I( 16 )O Lord deliver my foul h om death, mine eyes fromy ^tears, and my feet from falling 1 O bring me cut of the-miry clay, let my feet upon a rock, and eftablifli mygoings, and put a new long in my mouth, evenjto our God !i If %nob went down fo cheerfully into 1$grpt,f *God had faid unto him, F at not to go downi 10iU o dmvniuiib thee and I will bt ing thee trp again:| Why fhould a believer fear to go down to the grave,| when God hath undertaken to go down with him[ thither, 'and to bring h;m up again ? His body may beturned into duft, but God is n covenant with his dud,. irrl will not fnfF^r leafi- particle of it to be loft,r* Are not the righteous tak< n away from the evil to, come ? Do they uot reft oh their beds, and enter into1 peace ? Why then Ihould I grudge at dying ? When theLord is to bring heavy wrath and judgments on a land,,. he frequencly houfeth many of his peop'e in heaven be-. fore h«nd : and, how happy are theft that win the houtebefore the fweeping hail-lhOwers doth fall. A believerneedeth not to look for any fettled fair weather in thisworld : it will be nothing but one fhower up and ano¬ther down, rill he be houfetl in heaven. O why then- fhould I linger in this wildernefs !FINIS.