THEPLEASING ARTMO]¥EY-CATCHI]irCr;AND THEWAY TO THRIVE,BYTURNING A PENNY TO ADVANTAGE:WITH A NEW METHOD OFREGULATING DAILY EXPENSES.C f frlA/feJ-m jjlrrFALKIRK :PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLEHS.airrTII h O/ilgA&LI*!; ^iniii3Tjr:>-Tr :ny o mTHEPLEASING ARTYaOF:30ATHAV(IA OTTUKSf*! A O/JKHUTlI©TiTETL-CATCHI^T«.WHEN commerce and traffic was first begunin the world, and men came to trade one withanother, there was no use for money, nor needof it; for men bartered their goods in exchangewith each other; and as in the infancy of theworld, some were tillers of the ground and otherswere keepers of sheep; the one gave the othercorn, and took of their sheep in exchange for it.And this sort of trading is now generally in usein our foreign plantations to supply the want ofmoney. But in process of time, as trading in¬creased, so did luxury begin to abound ; and asluxury abounded, so men’s wants grew greater,which begat a necessity of some other way of com¬merce, and this was money ; which is of such an¬tiquity, that Josephus tells us, that Cain, (the sonof \dam, and the first born of men) was verygreedy in gathering money together, though3of what metal that money was made, and whetherit was coined or not he is silent.Herodotus writeth that the first that coinedsilver and gold, to buy and sell with, were theLydians. for silver and gold being the mostprecious of metals, were so much valued, thatwhatever any man wanted, might be purchasedfor it.Homer indeed tells us that before the siege ofTioy, men used to change or barter one commo¬dity for another. Hut it is undeniable that moneywas in use long before that time; for when Abra¬ham purchased the field of Machpelah, and thefield in which it was, for a burying place for hisfamily, he gave four hundred shekels of silver for it;which the stcret texts tells us was current moneywith the merchant ; and that was about the yearof the world 2088, which was near 700 yearsbefore the destruction of froy. Hut though (hemoney was current with the merchant, yet Iquestion whether it was coined or not; for it ra¬ther appears, that its received it value from itsweight than from any stamp that was upon it;'1 he weight ofau shekel beingaquarter of an ounce,and the true value of that. 15 pence of our money.Abraham paid £23 English money, for that bury¬ing place.V\ e read likewise of pieces of silver, or silver-lings, before this, which was current money amongthe nation at that day; for Abimeleeh, king ofGerar, hav.ng laLen Abraham’s wife from him,upon a supposition that she was his sister, when hecame to understand the truth of the matter, notonly restored his wife to him again, but also gavehim a thousand pieces of silver, or silverlings ; thevalue of which thousand pieces (each piece being4worth 6d) came to 1251. which at that clay wasa noble present lor a kinj to <pVe.But besides shekels and silverings, there weretalents also, the weight of which was 7 > ounces.A talent ot‘silver contained the value of 1871. 10s.Of each of these coins there is frequent mentionin the Holy Scriptures of the Old Testament.In the \’ew Testament, Our Saviour commandedPeter to take up the fish that first came to hand,and when he had opened its mouth he should findtherein a piece of money, which he was to takeand ojve the tax-gatherers for his Master andhimself: which piece of money w is ended a Siator,which consisted of half an ounce of silver, the va¬lue of which was 2 shillings. And when the.lewsCame to ensnare our Saviour, about the lawfulnessol paying tribute to Caesar, he desired them to shewthe tribute-money, and they shewed him a penny,of vaide 7d-halfpenny ; and that this money wascoined and stamped, ap >ears hy our Savniui ’s ask¬ing them, v hose image and super-cription wasupon itJ To which they answered. Caesar.But 1 need not quote Scripture to prove thatthe Jews and Romans used to coin money, theimage and superscription triven a value to it, andpromoting the currency of it; for silver was coinedin Rome, in the year of the word 3672, whichwas about 300 years before the Christian aeia.History tells us that silver was first of all coinedin the Isle Engina and that in Rome it was stamp¬ed with the impression of a chariot and horses.And Janus caused brass to be coined with a faceon the one side, and a snip on the other, in me¬mory of Saturnus, who arrived there in a ship.Servius Tullius, a king of the Romans, first coinedbrass with the image of a sheep and an ox. And5in some places leather cut into pieces has had thestamp of authority put upon it, and so it was madeto pass for money, and in New England, theIndians have money which they call VV'ampom-pege, which is of two sorts, one white, which theymaka of the stem or stock of the periwinkle, whichthey call Meteaul ocU, v\hen all the shell is brokenoff; at.d of this sort six of i heir small beads, (whichthey make with holes to siring the bracelets) arecurrent with the English for a penny. The othersort is black inclining to blue, which is made ofthe shell of a fish, which they cail Peqtianhock;and of tliis sort three make an English penny.They who live upon the sea-side generally makeof it, and as many make as will, none being deniedthe liberty ol making it. I bis coin or money theIndians set such a value upon, that they bringdown aii sorts of furs which they take in thecountry, and seii to the Indians and English too,for this Indian money ; and the currency of itamong them, makes them look on it as a goodequivalent for what commodites they have to sell.Both the English, Dutch, and French tie ding tothe Indi ns with it, above six hundred miles north! and south from England; which is sufficient toshew', that the use of money is very ancient, andis made use of by all naiions in treading with eachother; and was first invented as a medium in trade,and an equivalent to all sorts of commodities.6The Misery of those that want Money,and are in Debt.THERE is no wise man that will covet moneyfor itself, but for the use that is to be made of it;for money itself cannot satisfy; and so we aretold by the wisest of men, Eccles. v. 10. He thatloveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver;nor he that loveth abundance with increase.”—In a time of famine, or in a besieged city, a manmay have money enough by bim, and yet mayw'ant a piece of bread. Money therefore is prizednot for itself but for its use ; because, as Solomonalso say's, “Money answers all tilings.” Andseeing without money a man can have nothing,they must be very miserable that are without it.Charity, in this last and iron age of the world,is grown so cold, that there is scarce any thing tobe got upon that account. Ifyou are cold, charitywill not warm you; neither, if you are hungrywill it fill jour belly; but if you have money',you may do both.If you have money, you may become one ofthe Livery-men of London, an Assistant, a War¬den, or a Master of a Company: but if you wantmoney, you will never arrive to (he honour of abeadle; for even for such an inferior employmentyrou must make friends, and that cannot be donewithout bribes, nor can you bribe without money.If you have money, you may be an honest man,and a good man; but if you want money, you mustbe a knave by consequence.Enquire of a rich man among his neighbourswhat he is, meaning only whether he be a sub¬stantial man, and one that is responsible; and,/they will presently tell you, “ he’s a very goodman, I’ll assure you though at the same time,with respect to his morals, he is as profligate afellow as any in the whole parish, and one thatlives by oppressing his neighbours, and doing all(manner of injustice; his money making amendsfor all his enormities.I knew a certain tradesman in London, thathad an unc'e, a rich eovetous fellow, that wasworth many a thousand; this poor man addressedhimself to his uncle, to give him a £100 to sethim up; bat he knew the worth of money betterthan to part with it, before death forced it fromhim, and told him plainly, he would give him no¬thing while he lived, but it might be he would leavehim something when he died, especially if he foundhim industrious, and that he put himself in a wayto live. Ihe poor man had but little money,and less credit, and how to put himself in a wayto live he knew not, his tiade being none of thebest for journeymen. However, picking up alittle credit at one place, and a little at another,he addressed himself to the company he was free ofand would fain have borrowed £50 of them; buttruly they would not lend it him, but upon suchsecurity as he could not procure in this extremityhaving put himself into a shop, he goes again tohis uncle, to desire him to lend him a little money,telling him he had set up in trade, and was gotinto a shop, but wanted money to carry on hisbusiness, and desired him to lend him a little.Ilis uncle finding he was getting into a way, outof his generosity lends him £20, but makeshim give him a bond to pay him again in a year’stime. I he poor man had almost as good beenwithout his money, as to have been under such8an obligation ; but he was resolved to keep touchwith him, though he lived so poorly all the whilethat he was the scorn of his neighbours and fel¬low tradesmen, who looked upon him as a poorand consequently a pitiful fellow; but for all that,though with much ado, he had the good fortuneto pay back his uncle the £20 within the timelimited; which his uncle took so well, that hetold him, Since he took such care to keep his word,he would remember him another time. And sohe did ; for having neither wife nor c ild, whenhe died, he divided his estate amongst h:s relations,and left this poor kinsman of his thirty thousandpounds in ready money, and £ 1500 per annum.And now this poor man, ivho>e poverty made himthe scorn of his neighbours and acquaintances be¬fore, became a very good man all on a sudaen,insomuch that the city took notice of him, andchose him sheriff die very next year; and thecompany that before refused to lend him £50,riow chose him their master, and were all hishumble servants; and he was applauded and criedup by every one. Here was now a mighty c <ange,and yet the man was the same still; i was moneyduly made the difference. Judge therefore whe¬ther want of money he not an extraordinary mis¬ery, and a great unhappiness.I his puts me in mind of a story, I have heardrelated of Jocelin Percy, Esq., brother to theEarl of Northumberland, who aoing by a butcher'sshop, near Cow-Cross affronted his dog, whothereupon fell a-barking at him, and the Esquiredrew his sword and run him through. Thebutcher, who was troubled for the loss of his dog,Charged a constable with the Esquire, who carriedhim before a Justice that knew him not; the>9Justice asked him why he killed the butcher’s dog?The Esquire answered him very carelessly. Becausethe dog ran at him. Ran at you * says Mr Justice.How did he run at you r To which Percy (beinga comical sort ot'a man) replied. Me ran at me thus.Bough ! wough ! wough ! ai d therewith takinga little run at the Justice, threw him and hischair down together ! Which Mr Justice lockedupon as such affront to his worship, tha: nothingwould atone for, but committing him to Newgale,aggravating the crime of ki ling the butcher s dog,telling him. Mis dog was his servant, and that iorought he knew, himself or some of his gang, de¬signed to roh his shop; hut he would make an ex¬ample of him. Percy seemed very little concernedat what the Justice said, which provoked him themore; and therefore he called the clerk to makehis mittimus, who asking him what his name w-.s,he said Jocelin What besides Jocelin? said theClerk, Percy, said he. Of what place? rej> iedl the Clerk. Of Northumberland-house, near toI Chat ing-Cruss, said he. the Justice hearing this|| and knowing there was a verv comical gentlemanti of that name, "ho was brother to the Ear. of1 Northumberland, then a great favourite "ith hisI Majestv, changed his tone at once, and asked himI if he was brother to the Eari ? On beingans" eredr| in the affirmative, lie addressed himself to the| butcher in an angry tone, telling him that hewoykjg examine into the affair, and that he would learni( him better than let his dog loose to molest gentle-li man as they walked the street, and that he wouldhave him hound over to the peace at the Quarter^K Sessions for Ids future behaviour. W htcli he(would have done, and perhaps more, had notPercy interfered in his behalf. At this alterationrothe poor butcher was terrified. The Justice thanaddressed himselfto the Esquire, and begged hispardon for using him in such a manner, imputing itto his not knowing his quality. The Esquire,with a smile, replied that he must also beg hispirdon for throwing him and his chair over. TheJustice answered, there was no offence.Thus we may see the misery of wanting money.The butcher could certainly have punished Percyfor killing his dog in such an unprovoked manner,and would have obtained it, bad not the Justicediscovered Percy’s family, and let justice winkrather than offend the brother of a favourite ofbis Majesty’s. 1 he poor butcher must not onlycontent himself with the loss of his dog, but beglad he escaped so well, ft is just so, generallyspeaking, in every state of life; if a man be everso virtuous and of the best principles, if he wantsthat principle of principles, money, he wants everytiling, and is looked upon as a mean pitiful fellow:on the contrary, if a rran be possessed of that,he has every thing, though otherwise of the mostconsummate ignorance, debauched life, and insig¬nificant conversation.I confess, if we look backward into the be tterand wiser ages of the world, virtue, though cloath-ed in rags, was more esteemed than the trappingsof the gold ass; it is in these last and worst ofdays that vice has got such an ascendant in theworld, as to make men think all that are poorare miserable ; for in the primitive times, povertywas the badge of religion and piety ; and wed itmight, for not many great, nor many noble werecalled; and the study of wisdom, and contempt ofthe world was then in esteem among the wisestphilosophers in the earliest ages. But as Ovid,ViiThe times are chang’d, and even weSeem changed with times to be.So that in those times, considering the misery ofwanting money is so great, we may say with thewise man, “ My son, it is better to die than tobe poorwhich saying was perhaps the occasionof an old miser’s mistake, who bid his son observewhat Solomon said, “ Always keep a penny inyour pocket.” But his son answered again, Hedid not remember that Solomon said any suchthing. The miser replied, Then Solomon wasnot so wise as l took him to be.Indeed money’s now become the worldly man’sgod, and the card which the devil turns up trumplito win the game ; for it gives birth, breeding,beauty, honour, and credit; and makes the posses¬sors think themselves wise, though their very think¬ing so, declares them fools. But because moneyanswers all things, and is in such vogue with thewmrld, therefore many are so willing to purchase itthough with the loss of soul and body.But the w ant of money does not only cause mento be condemned and ridiculed, but it also putsmen upon taking wicked and unlawful courses toobtain it: which made one say,O wretched poverty ! a tool thou'rt made,To every evil act and wicked trade.For it wresteth and maketh crooked the best na¬tures; which aie forced by their necessities, to dothose things which they blush to think of whilethey are doing them ; such as borrowing, and notbeing able to pay, to speak untruths to cover anddisguise their poverty ; to deceive and sometimesto cheat their nearest relations; and all because,when they are in want, they are scorned, and de¬spised, and perhaps disowned by them.uBut before I leave this subject, of shewing themisery of wanting money, it is necessary I shouldsay something of the misery of borrowing money,or running in debt, which is a consequent ofwanting money ; for he that does not want, hasno occasion to borrow, and is in that respecthappy ; for being out of debt he is out of danger,and therefore needs not seek for by-ways to avoidhis creditors, but can walk in the. open streetswithout fear, and whet his knife even at the gatesof the prison.But on tire contrary, he that borrows money,has made himself such a slave to his creditors, thathe dares hardly say his head is his own, and isafraid that every one he meet is a serjeant or abailiff, that intends to captivate hisoutward taber¬nacle: like the man that in the night-time, havinghis coat catched by a nail, and so slopped, he pre¬sently crieil out, “ 11 whose suit? Supposing itwas a serjeant that had arrested him.The causes of Men wanting Money.SIt'JCE money is a thing so necessary and souseful, and the want of a competency of it, makesa man so very miserable, rendering him liable toall the scorn and contempt that an ill-naturedworld can throw upon him ; it seems strange somany should want it, espeeially those that knowthe worth of it. And therefore it may be worthour enquiring into the causes from whence thiswant proceeds: l mean the common and ordinarycauses; for there are some causes that are extra-13ordinary, such as all our wit and prudence canneither foresee nor avoid. Such was that extra¬ordinary and surprising storm in November 1703,I whereby many thousands were undone, as to theirestates, besides the many lives that were lost : andsuch also was the dreadful fire in London, wherebysome that had great estates the one week, hadscarce bread to eat the next : and in the time of warintany are unavoidably losers. But these must not'be reckoned the common and ordinary ways thatmake and keep men poor. 'Ye know indeed,that by the divine providence, in the body of adebmmon-wealth there must be both poor and rich,even as an human body cannot subsist withouthands and feet to labour, and walk about to pro-s|vide for the oilier members; so the rich being thebelly, which devour all, yet do no part of thework; but the cause of every man’s poverty isnot one and the same; some arc poor by conditionand content with their calling, ana mither seeknor can work themselves into better condition;ryet God raiseth up, as by a mirac e, the childrenand posterity of these, oftentimes, to possess thet most eminent places either in ceurch or common¬wealth,as to become Archbishops, Bishops, Judges,i Commanders-general in the field, Secretaries ofState, Statesmen, and the like ; so that it provethnot always true which the poet says,]f'l>"or thou art, then poor thou shall remain ;Rich men alone do now rich gilts ahtain.Of this condition are the greatest number in everyI kingdom ; others there are, who have possessedgreat estates, but these estates have not thrivenor continued, being gotten by oppression, deceit,usury, and the like, which commonly lasteth not14to the third generation, according to the poet,It seldom is the grandchild’s lot,To be the heir of goods not justly got.Others come to want and misery, by spendingtheir fair estates in ways of vicious living, as ondrink and women ; for Bacchus and Venus areinseperable companions; and he that is familiarwith the one, is never a stranger to the other.In same way, manner, and end,Both wine and women do offend.Some again live in perpetual want, being natu¬rally wholly given to idleness. These are thedrones of a common-wealth, who deserve not tolive. “ He that laboureth not, should not eat—Labour night and day, rather than be burthen-some,” saith the Apostle Paul: both country andcity swarm with this kind of people; “ The dili¬gent hand,” saith Solomon, “shall make rich ; butthe sluggard shall have a scarcity of bread.”I remember when I was in the Low Countries,there were three soldiers, a Dutch-man, a Scot,and an Englishman, who, for their misdemeanors,were condemned to be hanged; yet their liveswere begged by three several men, one a brick¬layer, that he might help him to make bricks, andcarry them to the walls; the other was a brewerof Delft, who begged his man to fetch u'ater,and do other work in the brew-house; and thethird by a gardener, to help him to work in anddress a hop garden. The first two accepted theiroffers thankfully; but the last, the Englishman,told his master in plain terms, his friends had neverbrought him up to gather hops; and thereforedesired rather to be hanged.15Others have had great estates left unto themby their friends, and who never knew the painand care of getting them, have, as one said truly,galloped through them in a very short time:these are such as Solomon speaketh of “ whohaving riches have no hearts, or rather the wit,to use them.” These men are most aply com¬pared to the willow-tree, because the palms of thew illow-tree are no sooner ripe, but blown awaywith the wind.I remember to have heard of a wealthy citizenof London, in Queen Elizabeth s time, who lefthis son a great sum of money, who imagined heshould never be able to spend it; would usuallymake ducks and drakes in the Thames with shil¬lings, as boys were wont to do with tile sheardsand oyster shells; and at the end came to suchextreme want, that he was under the necessity ofborrowing sixpence, having many times more shoesthan feet, and sometimes more feet than shoes, asthe beggar said in the comedyMany also there are,to a good estate, have quite undone themselves bymarriage, and th*t after a twofold manner; first,by matching themselves without advice of parentsor friends, in heat of youth, unto proud, foolish,and light women, that one would better live onsmall allowance at a distance, than have a fullmeal at home, where he is always troubled withher never ceasing tongue. And this is the reasonso many husbands travel beyond seas; or at homego from town to town, or from tavern to tavern,to look for company ! and in a word, to spend anything, to live any where, save at home, in theirown houses, where they are sure to hear nothingbut the brawlings of a scolding wmman.who having been bornZif(ToDIRECTIONSHow persons may supply themselves withMoney at all times.NO »V, if you would ask me what course y oushould take, or what you should do that wantethmoiiey; let him first bethink himself to whatprofession or trade he hath been formerly broughtup to. If of the inferior middle sort of trades¬men or artificers, (for those are chiefly concernedin this unhappiness) let such.First, be very diligent and industrious in theirrepective trades and callings, anti not be slothfulin business.Secondly, Let him take heed of idleness, andall vain and idle comp inions, that loiter up anddown, and squander away their time as if it wereof no value, though it is the most precious thingin the world, there being nothing in the worldthat is a more certain indication of ruin and de¬struction, than the wasting and misimproving ofour time. And yet this is done by those thatwould take it ill to be charged therewith: as forinstance, how many are there that spend a greatdeal of their time in Coffee-houses and Weekly-Clubs 1 where, tho’ but litt e money is pretendedto be spent, yet a great deal of precious time issquandered aw ay and lost ! which many th it fre¬quent these plates never think of, but measuretheir expenses only by what goes out of theirpockets, not considering what they might havegained in the time by their labour, and what theymight have saved by keeping at their shops.9 r17Let us therefore reckon, when a tradesman goesto the Coffee-house or Ale-house to take a moro-i ing draught, (let it be of what liquor he wills,)! while he is spending his twopence, smoaking and(talking, he losses at least an hour of his time;and in the evening he goes to his two-penny club,rand there tarries from six tili ten. Now, it mustbe a very poor trade, if in that time he could nothave earned a shilling. And if he keeps servants,the want of his presence at home may have oc¬casioned his lo-ing as much as he could have gainedhimself; '<> that his speuding a groat morning andslight, (which is twopence each time) cannot beiccounted less than the loss of 2s 8d a-day,ivhich comes to 14s a-week, and £36 10s a-year.lihich sum if saved, until his eldest son arrivedt 21 years of age, and so fit for marriage, and toet up in tr 'de, would have amounted to £750 10s.if hey who would live so as not to want money,• must avoid ah such idle and needless expenses,Snd unnecessary loss of time.[1 But if the person comp’aining of the want ofjhoney, has been brought up to no trade, then letrim consider to what kind of life his genius orlatural disposition does most ol all inc’ine him.if he cannot find employment in his own countryi» suit his genius, (which can scarcely he supposeda country such as Great Hritain, w here arts and|iettce are carried to the greatest perfection, andthere a person of any genius, or of little genius,ay find employment) let him seek his fortunetroad He may at once satisfy his curiosity,pply his necessity, and serve his country, by•ing into the army or navy, and thereby have> < } opportunity of doing brave actions in the ser-ce of his country abroad, and there he may18come to advantage both bis fortune and family.—If lie inclines not the employment of the army ornavy, he may find something to suit him in ourPlantations in the East and West Indies, and inAmerica, in all which places many a man hathdone well, who could do nothing at home. Thusyou shall find great contentmenttoyour conscienceto be in action, which God commands us all to be.The times in no age was so hard as to denyindustry and ingenuity a livelihood: and, in aword, rather to be in misery for want of monev,let a man undertake any vocation and labour, andNever think the labour coarseThat puts a penny in his purse.The want of money is a great torment, andoften puts men on unlawful shifts to procure it;therefore let every one who has got money, becareful to know its worth : for since we are bornwe must live, and it is hard to live upon a smallshare of it. And to conclude this chapter, let ushe always careful to get, and cautious in spendingmoney; and when you have it, know how to keepand how to use it, when there is occasionfor money in your pocket is the best companion,As one observed, “ be a good husband, and thouwilt soon get a penny to spend, a penny to lend,!and a'penny for thy friend.” For l would have:none to be such misers as to gain money only to'keep, and not make use of it ; for to such, moneyis the greatest curse, of which the world has beeifurnished with many instances.Gain a penny, spend a penny,(Sai s the frugal man ;)But if you spend before you gain,You’ll ne’er be merry then.C19DIRECTIONSHow to turn a Vznny to Advantage.2 6MY first direction shall be that all such personsas design to thrive in the world, should alwaystake care not to spend a penny idly; for that theythereby may purchase a square yard (or three feet)of good land. This, how improbable soever itmay seem, is an undoubted truth, as will appearby the following demonstration.1. Sixteen feet and a half, make one rood.2. Forty' such roods in length, (that is 660 feet)and four such roods in breadth, (that is 66 feet)make an acre of land.3. Now, multiply 660 feet, (the length of anacre) by 66 feet, (the breadth of an acre) and theproduct will be 43,560 square feet, and so manyan acre contains.4. Land that will let at 20san acre, per annum,an acre of which, if sold at 20 years purchase,may be bought for .£20, that is for 4800 pence.f>. Now, ify'ou divide 43, 560, (the number ofpence for which an acre imy be purchased,) the)|quotent or product thereof is 9, and 360 remam-;j!iing; which shews that every penny does purchase[three square feet (that, is, three feet long, and threebroad) of such land, and somewhat above, whichis what was to be demonstrated ; and consequent¬ly it follows, that for every two shillings, you maypurchase 216 square feet; that is a piece of groundof 18 feet long, aud 12 feet broad, which isenough to build a little house upon, or make a littleigarden, which being well planted, the fruit there-20of many every year make a man blush to think heshou'cl spend the smallest Sum necessarily, byimmorderate eating, drinking, cloathing, familyor pocket expenses, which perhaps impai-s hishealth besides, and exposes him to the reproachand r'dicule of his neighbours, when he has so ;;fair a way to turn those idle-spent pence t > hisown advantage. But if a man has not a mind topurchase land with his penny, he may turn itseveral other ways to still greater advantage, intrade and commerce.Ikit there is mare required in the art of thrivingand turning the penny to advantage than mostmen imagine ; it is true diligence is good ; hut aman can never thrive as he should do, withouthe looks h'gher than all this. I remember l havesomewhere read the following verses:Spare not, nor spend too much, be this thy care,Spare but to spend, and only spend to spare;Who spends too mucli may want, and so complain,Bui he spends best that spares to spend again.How, sow, and reap, and then to heaven call.That its kind blessing may on your labour fall;’Tis vain to look for profit from what’s given,Unless you get the blessed dew from heaven.And indeed, unless we are under the influencesof a blessing from heaven, all our own endeavours,how strenuous however they may be, will nevermake us thrive: for as the royal Psalmist ex¬cellently observes, “ Except the Lord build thehouse they labour in vain that build it. Exceptthe Lord keep the city, the watchman walketh butin vain.” So it is in this case, except the Lordgive a blessing, our endeavours will be in vain.21AI New Method for Ordering Expenses.It is very hard for an open and easy natureto keep within the compass of his fortune; eithershame to he observed behind others, or else a vain¬glorious itching to out do them, leaks away tillthe vessel he low or empty ; so that nothing in¬volves a man in more unhappiness than a heedlessletting go, in an imprudence of mispending; for italters the very frame anil temper of the mind.When want comes, he that was profuse before,easily grows rapacious. It is extreme unhappinessto he thus composed of extremes, to he impatientboth in plenty and want. And therefore let everyman, for the better ordering of his expenses ob-Iserve the follow ing rules.1. See that \our comings in he more than vourlayings out ; for unless this he minded a man mayiswaste awa\ his substance to nothing insensibly.If your income extend your expenses but twentyiishillings a-year, \ou are in a thriving condition ;tibut if on ti e contrary your expences exceed youriincoine, you are in the highway to ruin.2. Keep an exact account of what you lay out,land what you receive; for without this, you will::be al' ays in the dark.3. lidlance your accounts at least once every(quarter; and then you will the better see how thecase stands with you, and so may the better re¬trench matters, if you find you have exceeded.4. In lat ing out your money, trust not to yourservants; for in small matters they may deceiveyou and you be never the wiser; and many suchi ksmall matters may amount to a great sum.S25. In all your affairs of moment, look after yourbusiness yourself if you wish to succeed.6. Be always sparing, that you may still havewherewithal to spend.7. Never spend presently, in hopes of gaining!for the future; wise merchants, while their goodsare at sea, do not increase their expenses on land,bat fearing the worst, secure what they have al¬ready in their hands.8. Never buy but with ready-money : and buvwhere you lind things cheap and good rather thanfor friendship or acquaintance sake; for they per¬haps may take it unkind, if you will not let themcheat you. For you may get experience, if no- >thing else, by going from one shop to another.9. He ready to give a good advice to all, butbe security for none. And if a friend or relation ?press you to it, refuse it, and rather, if you can,lend him upon another’s bond.10. Let not thy table exceed the fourth partof thy revenue. And let thy provisions be solid, ;and not far fetched ; fuller of substance than art.Be wisely frugal in thy preparation, and freely, rcheerful in thy entertainment. Too much is va- pnity, and enough is feast. !11. If thou wquldst in a little time arrive to pworldly preferment, be very industrious in thy ,calling, be what it wi 1 ; that which is so sparingsaved, may be with diligence improved. It hathbeen obser ved, that it is not less gainful to navi- sgate in a small vessel, which makes quick and fre- (.qiient returns, than in that which returns hut:seldom, though deeply laden. Therefore Solo¬mon directs the sluggard to go to the bee and ant;;which infirm creatures painiy show how muchtire assiduit} of industrious labour can effect.23A few serious and necessary Advices toall those that desire to thrive in the world,md have the blessing of God with it.1. ASSURE yourself there can be no honest'thriving without the fear of GOD, and the exer¬cise of a good conscience, and therefore, aboveII tilings, disengage yourself from that businessnd those diversions that stand in opposition withhat godly fear, that ought to be a guide to youIn all your actions.2 A.void the company of all vicious persons,ijvhatsoever as much as you can ; for no vice islone, and all are infectious : Especially avoid alluch persons as are scandalous, either for profes-ion or manners, for you run his hazard, andtspouse his disreputation; and such as are swearers,brofane blasphemers, scoffers, &c.3. Be sure not to keep company with drunkardsmd busy bodies, and all such as are apt to talkr.nuch to little purpose; for no man can be pro-ident of his time, that is not prudent in the choicef his company.4 Beware of idleness, and fill up the emptypaces of your time in useful emplo\ments; forice cres ps in, when the soul is unemployed, andhe body at. ease.5. Avoid the filthy sin of whoredom, whichrings the curse of GOD upon men s bodies andstates: “ For a whorish w’oman is a deep ditch,nd he that is abhored of the Lord, shall fallherein.”6. Pray to GOD when you begin any work,hat by his help, you may bring it to a good con¬tusion.!«24PROVERBS,v,.^ C. A\ r« V Cv-fTrAX k\ «K-«r%€xU Xt A\ cvOfsrU0 >> Vi i . \ Vi . ’ >1 U i - . A i • \ > 0 »A.To be observed by all who ivish to thrive.When iiches increase, the hotly clecreaseth;For men grovv old before they grow rich.Spend and he free, hut do not waste.Who more than he is worth doth spend,W ill he a beggar at the end.Whoso spendetli more than he shoo'd,Shall not have to spend when lie would.The table robs more tnan the thief.Trade is the mother of money.When the tree is fallen every man goeth toit with ,his hatchet. Or, when the man’s down, downwith him.For want of a nail the shoe is lost;For want of a shoe tin; horse is lost;For want of a horse the rider is lost.To him that is willing, ways are not. wanting.They must hunger i.i frost that will not work inheat.Go not to the physician on every disorder;Nor to to the lawier on every quarrel;Nor to the tavern always when dry.Patience, time, and money, accommodate all things..Prayer and provmder hinders no journey.Fear nothing but sin.FINIS.