Witty and Entertaining Exploits.0 FGEORGE BUCHANAN♦COMMONLY CALLEDTHE KING’S FOO ATHE WHOLE SIX PARTS CQM'FXETE.G I. A S G o \r,PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON.*MDCCXCV1I,uiitilaITT Y EXP LOTTS, "&c.MR. GEORGE BUCHANAN was a Scotchmanborn, and though’of mean parentage, made greatprogrefs in learning. As for his underftanding, and rea¬dy wit, he exceeded all men then alive in that age, thatever propofed queftions to him. He was fervant, orteacher to King James VI. as his private coijpfellor, butpublickly he adled as a fool.i. It happened or.e day, that a young airy nobleman-went into the king’s garden, to pull a flower for a younglady he fancied. George followed at a diftance ; fo whenl,he young man found a flower to his pleafure, he wouldnot ppll it himfelf, but to find it again, without furtherftarehing, he covered it with his hat, and went away forhis fweet-heart: No fooner was he . gone, but up goesGeorge, lifts his hat, pulls the flower, then eafes himfelf<nn the fpot, and covers it with the hat again, and awayhe goes. In comes the young man, leading his fvveet-heart to pull the flower below the hat: but as foon as helifted the hat, and faw wdiat was below ; he looked like afool. The lady flies in a pafiion, off fhe goes, and neverWould countenancehim anymore. The young man, beingJfadly vexed at this affront done to him by George, fentbun a challenge to fight him, appointing day and placewhere they were tp meet. Being to fight on horfeback,George gets an old ftiiTborfe, and for liarnefiing covershim about with blown bladders, with a little fmall ftonein each, without either fword or fpcar, away to the fieldhe goes, where the duel was appointed : fo when Georgefaw his enemy coming againft h:m, ail m glittering ar¬mour, armed with fword and fpear, he rode up to himwith all the fpeed his horfe could carry him, and hisJiorfe, as faid is, being all covered over with bladders, thefmall Hones in them made fuch a terrible noife, that thegentleman’s fiqe gelding -.Tonld not Hand the battle, but3'arr.away and threw his mafler to the ground, which cauf-ed all the fpeftators to laugh and fay, The gentleman wasmore fool than .George. The geutkmao being fo enrag¬ed at this fecond affront, he would fignt with George oiifoot; but his friends perfuaded him that it would be nc'lonour for him to fight and kill the king’s fool, and farOF GEORGE BUCHANAN, &c. jlefs to be killed by the foci; fo they were advifed bothagree. But the gentleman would try another exploit withGeorge; for to have it faid, he was dill the clevereft man,to hold him a jumping bout publickly the next day there¬after. With all my heart, fays George, and we wift endin and about where we began ; they not knowing hismeaning in this. The place and hour being fety wherethey were to meet next morning, George, in the night,catifed a deep pit to. be made, and the earth of it carriedaway, afterwards filled it up with dung from a privy, andcovered it over ’v/ith a green turf, fo that it might not beknown by th.-e other ground : So according to proitufc,they both met in the morning againlt the time appointed :Now George being the oldeft man, and by them countedthe greateft fool, the young man permitted him to jumpfirll, which he, according to Older, performed; and jump¬ed within a foot of the place where the ground was falii-fied : The young man feeing this, made his performanceafterwards, with great air?, and all his might, fo that hejumped a fi,ot over George, but to his oxters amongclean dung ; whereat the whole multitude of fpectatoracried out with huzzas and laughter. Now fays George,.I told you we would end in and about where we began»and that was in clean dirt.On a time after this, the king and his court were goinginto the country, and they would have George to ridebefere them in the fool’s drefs, whereunto he feemed un-willing, but it was the king’s pieafure ; fo George wasmounted upon an old horfe, a pair of old riven boots, wit lxthe heels hanging down, a-palmer coat patched over withpictures of divers kinds. George rode before them in this;pofture, winch caufed great laughter and diverfion, until,they came to an inn, where they alighted for to dine; andthe time they were at dinner, George went into the {fa¬bles, and with a knife tut all their horfes chafts, not lore,but io as they might bleed. Now, asfoon as dinner wasover, and they mounted on th ur horfes again, George rid-ing4>cfofe them r..; ufual, in his palmer coat and old boots,they began to make their game of him; then George turn¬ed about fuddenly, and clapping his hands with a loud1 , 1 —1.4-—— X. X . — I . * 0 ^ t *4 THE WITTY EXPLOITScannot hold their peace? O my Sovereign, fays he, don’t■you.fee how your horfes have rent all their chafts laugh¬ing at my old boots; then every man looking at his horfe’smouth, they were all in a rage again!! George; the Kingcaufed him to be difmounted direftly, and charged himnever to let him fee his face on Engli!h ground. Now,George knowing that nothing could reconcile the Kingat thiVtime, he came away to Scotland, and caufed makehim a pair of great boats, and put a quantity of Scottifh'earth in each of them, and away he goes for England tofee the'King once more. He hearing the king and hiscourt were to pafs through a country village, Georgeplaces himfelf up. in an old window, and fets up his barearfe to the King afld his court, as they palfed by. TheKing, being greatly amazed to fee fuch an unufual hon¬our done to him, was curious to know the performer ; fohe called unto him, alking him to come down, and find¬ing it to be George, Sir, fays the King, Did not I chargeyou never to let me fee your face again? True my Sove-reign, fays George, for which I let you fee my arfe. Ay,but fays the King, you were never to come on Englifhground again: Neither did I, fays George, pulling off hisboots before the King, faying. Behold my Sovereign, itis all Scots earth I Hand upon. The King and his courtbeing fo diverted with this merry joke, George was ad¬mitted again to the King’s favour.After this, there arofe a debate betwixt the King andthe Queen about votes in the Parliament; as the Kinghad two votes, the Queen would have one, and wouldneeds be a Parliamerrter, or no peace without the prefer¬ment ; this matter was committed to George by the King;, hfo it was agreed with the Pariiainenters, that the Queen iIhouldbe admitted into Paiiiament for a day; aid, aecor- Hdingly fhe came, and was received with nil the honour and Bcongratulations which were due and becoming her highftation: but before any matter of confequence was broughtto the board, George feated himfelf hard by the Queen’sfeat; all being lilent, he rofe up very quickly, and fittedone of his legs, and then gave a great fart, which fet thewhole heufe a laughing: Whereat the Queen was greatlyoffended, crying, Go take the rogue and hang him ; to.■which George anfvvered, a fins Parliamentcr indeed, t<vOF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 5hang a man for a finlefs infirmity and that’s a fart. TheQiieen being fo enraged at this affront, put on her firil; propcfal at Parliament, went off in a pafiion, and never", would countenance them any more. But yet to be re-I venged on George, ffie would never give the King reft; til! he delivered up George into her hands, that he mightI be punilhed at her pleafure ; which the King accordinglyf ce.mmanded to be done, knowing that George would ret-S cue himfelx by forne intr'gue or other. No former was hedelivered into her hands, to be at her difpofal, but1 fhe' and her Maries pronounced his doom, which was as fol-[; lows: ‘ As he had affronted the Queen among fo great! ‘ an equipage, who ought to be honoured in chief, and.i; ‘ above ail women in the nation, that he (h«nld be fioneti‘ to death, by the hands of women.’ Now his time be-, ing come that he was to die, according to their appoint¬ment, i.e was taken into a park, where a great number of. women were waiting upon him, with their aprons full of, . ftor.es to fail upon him, and to put him to death, accor¬ding to the Queen’s appointment.HIS SPEECH TO HIS EXECUTIONERS.4 Here’s a female hand with bags of Hones,4 To kill a man for rumple grones :4 I’m clean of rapine, blood, and thefts,4 Could I convert my farts to rifts ?4 Since I the firli for farting die,4 Clofe up the place from whence they fly; -* To commit my crime, I think ye’H fcarce,I * If once you do cork up year arfe.4 And now fince women itones do carrv,I 4 Men need not in the world tarry. *4 Judge if fuch women be chafte complete,*■ With forty Hones between their feet;4 But fince ’tis fo, ye will come on,* The greateft whore throw the nrft ftone.’I' When he ended with thefe words,4 The greateft whore* fhould throw the firit ftone.’ every one put it to another: to caff the fiiff ftone ; but knowing they would attain the: charadler of a whore for fo doing, they all refufed till theI dying hour was p.aft, and then he took a proteil agsimti them, and by t’ncfe means gained his life. «6 THE W I T T Y E X P L O I T SAfter this he was admitted to the Queen's favour andprefence, attending the court as formerly. About thistime the French King not knowing how to pick a quar¬rel with Great Britain, fent a letter to the King, ddiringit to be read before the Parliament, and the writing wasas follows : * Will 1 come ? Will I come ? Will I comeThis letter being read before the King and his courtiers,,they all concluded that the French King deligned to in-vade England : therefore they wrote a letter on purpofe,to fend to him again, upbraiding him with the breach ofpeace, and putting him in mind of their laft treaty: Thisletter being read over before the King and his nobles,they all condefcended that it fltould be fent as an anfwer;but, George fmiling and fhaking his head, cried out,Many men, many minds ;Who knows what he defigns ?They then afked George, what he thought the’FrenchKing meant by fuch a letter; to which he anfwered, Ifuppofe he wants an invitation to come over to dine, and* then go back in a friendly manner ; but you are going tocharge fom with a breach of peace, before he has givenajiy lignin of offence or war ; his letter is indeed dark andmyftical, but fendhim an anfwer accordingto his queflion.Now George being ordered to Write the anfwer, it wat* And ye come. And ye come, And ye come.’ Thijbeing fent to the French King-, he admired it beyoncexpreffijn, faying it was an anfwer more valiant and daring than he expe&ed; fo the enmity-he intended wacktinguilhed thereby and turned into love.About this time, it happened, that a malignant part]In Scotland, fent up a great fpokefman to the King amW^Parliament for the feducing of the Church : George hearing of his coming, went away and met him on the bridge |and the falutation that he gave him, was tke cutting o:his head, and throwing it over the bridge; he then ran 11the King with all his might, falling down before hiu jpleading moft heartily for a pardon, or without it he wia dead man; the King molt furioufly afked him what 1had done now ? To which be anfwered, He had on:thrown the Scotch Bifhop’s hat over the bridge, whicjlmade the King to laugh, to hear him afk a pardon fafnch a fmall fault; but he had no funner gotten the pafjOF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 7c!on feakd by the King’s hand, than he faid, Indeed mySovereign, I threw his hat over the bridge, but his headwas in it. Geordy, Geordy, fays the King, thou wiltnever give ov»r till thou be hanged.After this, a nobleman in England agreed with theKing, how to put a trick upon George, to try his manlycourage, in fending him to a certain houfe for a bag.ofmoney. On his way home thro’ St. James* park, theycaufed a fturdy fellow, to go and fet the way upon him,and take the money; he, being armed with fword andpiftol, came up brilkly, and attacked George with thefewords, ‘ You, Sir, deliver what money you have, or you‘ are a dead man.’ To which George anfwered, ‘ Sir, I‘ have money, but it is not my own, and I am forry to‘ give it, neverthelefs, fince I am not armed as you are,‘ to exchange blows for it, you fhall have it: but pray, do‘ me the favour, to fire your piftol through the lap of my‘ cloak, that the owners may fee I have been in danger of* my life, before I loft the money which he according¬ly performed. No fooner had he fired it, than Georgewhips out his hanger from below his cloak, and with oneftroke cut off his right hand, wherein he held his fword,’fo that his fword and hand fell to the ground; but Georgelifted his hand, and" carried it to the King. No foonerdid he come before them, but they aiked him, faying,‘ Well George, did you fee any body to trouble you by‘ the way; No, faid he, but one fellow, who was going‘ to take the money from me; but I made him.give me‘ his hand he would not do the like again.’ ‘ You did,*fays the fellow’s mafter; ‘ Yes, I did, fays George, Let‘ work? bear witnefs,’ throwing down the fellow’s handupon the table before them all.Now this laft: exploit of George’s caufed many of theEnglifh to hate him, and amongft the reft, a young noble¬man fell a joking of George, in faying, ‘ He would be as‘ famous a champion for Scotland as Sir William Wallace‘ was.’ Ay, ay, fays George, ‘ William Wallace was g.‘ brave man in his time.’ True, indeed, lays the other,‘ but when he came to London, we did him all manner* of juftice, and for honour of the Scots, we have his effi-* gy in the (hitc-houfe to this -very day.’ 4 And do you1* net know the reafyn of that ? fays George : No, i don’t:8 T H' E WITTY EXPLOITS‘ fays he : Well, I will tell you, fays George, he was fuch* a terror to the Englifhmen w'hen he was alive, that a‘ fight of him yet makes them befhite themftlves.’ TheEogliih took this anfwer as a great affront, and forthwithcutiTed Wallace’s pifture to be taken out of that piace.There wasayoungEnglifh girl inlove with a Scotibaas,and petitioned him fereral times to marry her, which- herefirfed, and upon revenge thereof, fhe went to a juflice,and fwore a rape againlt him, which is death by the law.George hearing this, went into the prifon where theyoungman was ; and inilruCted him how to behave before thejudge. So in the time of the trial George came in, whilethe judge was crying to the man, but never a word hecould get him to anfwer, or tell whether he was gnilty crnot. After the judge had given him over to be deaf anddumb ; others fell a (houting in his ears, hut never a wordhe would fpeak. Then the judge perceiving George, cal¬led him, faying, George, do you know what is the matterwith this man ? ‘ Yes, I do very well:’ What is it, faysthe judge ? ‘ Why, fays George, the woman made fuch‘ a noife and cry ing when he was ravithing her, it has put‘ the poor man quite deaf, I allure you.’ Is it fo, fays theJudge ! ‘ No, no, fays the woman, my lord Judge, youi may believe me, I lay as mute as a lamb, and never fpoke‘ a word all the time.’ Very well confefied,faid the judge,and you have fworn a rape agaurft him ! ‘ Go, take the‘ whore to Newgate, and fet the poor man about his bufi-4 nefs,’ and fo it ended.PART II.GEC RGE happened one night to be in company witha bilhop, and fo they fell to argumenting'anent reli-jy’on, wherein George got the better of him, and the bi-fhop hlmfelf found he was wrong : then one of the com¬pany addrefied hivnfelf to GeoVgt in thefe words, ‘ Thou4 treot, laid he ought not to have left thy country Forw what, fays George, 4 Becaufe thou haft brought all the4 knowledge in it along with thee ;’ No, no, fays George,4 The ihepherds in Scotland will argument with any bi-4 Ihop in England and exceed them mighty far in know-4 ledge.’ the Englifh clergy took'this as a great afirenf,and fevcral noblemen affirmed it to be as George had fai4»OF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 9Wagers were laid thereon, and three of the Englifh cler¬gy were chofen and fent away to Scotland, to difpute itwith the ftiepherds, accompanied with feveral gentlemenwho were to bear witnefs of what they heard pafs betweenthem. Now, Georgehearing what way they were gone,took another road, and came mto the Scots bounds be¬fore them, made up his acquaintance with a (hcpherd atthe border, whofe pafture lay hard by the way-fide, whereflie clergymen were to pafs, and here George mountedhimfelf in a fhepherd’s drefs, and when he faw the clergy¬men coming, he conveyed his flock to the road fide, wherehe fell a finging a Latin fong ; and fo to begin the quarrelone of them allied him in French, ‘ What o’clock it was ?*To which he anfwered in Hebrew, ‘ It is direclly about‘ the time of the day it was yefterday at this time.’ Ano¬ther alked him in Greek, * What countryman he was?'To which he anfwered in Flemilh, ‘ If you knew that,‘ you would be as wife as my felt.’ The third alked himin Dutch, ‘ Where was you educate?’ to which he an-fwe'red in Earfe, ‘ Herding my (beep betwixt this and‘ Lochafcer This they begged him to explain into Eng-lifli, which he accordingly did. Now faid they one to a-nother, we need not go any farther. What, fays George,are you butchers? I’ll fell you a few flieep. To this theymade no infwer, but went away lhamefully, fwearing,that the Scots had gone thro’ all the nations in the worldto learn their language, or the devil had taught them it,for we have no lhare here but lhame.After George had ended the difpute with the Englilhclergymen, he ftript off his Ihepherd’s drefs, and went upthrough England with all the hafte imaginable, fo that hearrived at the place from whence they fet oqt, three days-before them; and.went• every day, alking if they werecome, fo that he might not be fufpefted. Now, upon theirarrival all that were concerned in the matter, and manymore, to hearwhatnews fromthe Scottifhlhepherds, camecrowding in to know what, was done. No focner had thethree gemlemen declared what had pail between the cler¬gymen and the Ihepherda, whom they found on the Scotsborder, hut the old bilhop made anfwer ; And think you,faid he, that a Ihepherd could anfwer thefe queffions ? Ithas been none elfc hut the devil: for the Scots minifter.ijso T H E W I T T Y E X P L 0 I T Sthemfelves could not do it: They are ignorant of filchmattery ; a parcel of' beardlcfs boys. Then Georgethought it was time to take fpteeh in hand. WtU, m.ylord bifliop, fays he, You call them a parcel of ignorantjlbeardlefs boys ; you havp a great long beard ycurfelf, mynlord bifhop, and if the grace of. God wire meafured bbeards, you bifhops, and the goats will have it all, and |that will be quite arerfe to fcripture. What, fays the"|ibifhop, are you a Scot ? Yes, fays George, I am 2. Scot;»Well, lays the bifhop, and what is the difference between |ia Scot and a fot ? Nothing at prefent, fays George, but Kthe breadth of the table, (there being a table betwixt the N'bifhop and George,) fo thp bifhop went off in a high npaffion, while the whole multitude were like to fplit their njaws with laughter.About this time, there was an a<ft of Parliament forthe benefit of murderers, that any perfon who committedmurder, if they forfeited ffve hundred merks, which wentunder the name of KIN-BOOT, becaufe fo much off thisfine went to the murdered per fens neareft. relations, as theprice of blood, the murderer got a remit. Now Georgeknowing this to be contrary to Mofes’ laws, was very-much grieved to fee fo many pavdons fealed with the king’shand for murder, aimed one ^very week ; it being fo ufu-al for the king to fubferibe them, that he wodld no't readthem, nor enquire what they were; for which carfc, GeorgeWrites a right to the crown, and fent it to the King to befubferibed, which he aclirally did, and never looking whatit was, returned it to- George : No fooner had he receivedit, but he goes to the King, and told him, it.was not timefor liim now tobe iittingthere, whereat the Kinggreatly a-mazedj dartedijip; then George in a great hade iet himfeffdbwn in the king’sehair, forthwith de'claringhimfelf king;faying, ‘ You who was King mud he my fool, for I amrow the wiled man ’ The King at this was greatly offen¬ded, until George (hewed him his feal and fubfenption ;but from that day forth the king knewv.T.at he fubferibed.Tire next pardon that came to be fealed by the King,was to a gentleman that had killed two men before, andhad gotten pardons for them by money. This being thethird, the King locked very filent in locking over the pe¬tition. George dauding by, afked U*ie King what he wasjoing to teal now r Fo which he anhvcred, it is a remijFor a man who has killed three men at fundry times, Igave him two remits before. O 1 fays George, He lias(tilled but one man : and who killed the other two, faysthe King ? You did, fays George ; for if you had givenhim jaftlce when he killed the fir ft, he had killed homore. When the Kihg heard thefe words, he threwdown the pen, and declared,, that fuch an a£! to fave a(murderer, thould b« null ever after by him.One day after this, George bavin*- no money, he goesaway and gets a pick and fpade, and then falls to dig-ting at a corner of the king’s palace, which the kingperceiving from his window, caUs what h • was wantingthere? Are you going to undermine my hoafe, and makejit fall! No, my Sovereign, faid he, but it is vei*i!y re¬ported, that there is plenty of money about this houfe,and where can it be, fays George ? I cannot find it: forjit is not within the houfe to do me fervice, then furely itImuft be below' it. O George, that is a crave after the.mevv fafliion ; what money you want, I will order it for(you. Then my Sovereign, I will dig no more.1 One time after this, George being in the country,' hecame to an inn, where he alighted to refrefh himfelf andIns horfe; the inn-keeper charged him double price forevery thing he called for : George never grumbled at thismt gave him all his demands, uid away he goes on hisjourney ; and where he quartered the night following, hewas ufed after the fame manner, if not worfe. NowGeorge having little farther to go, he returned the nextday and came that night to the inn where he had refrefh-:d bimfelf the day before; fo when he alighted; the boyaftred him, Sir, \yhat (hail I give your horfe? What youwill boy, fay* George. No f?/oner had he gone into hisroom, but the drawer alked him, What will you have todrink, Sir? What you will, fays George. The matter ofike inn came into his roombtforefupper, afkedhim, Whatwill you have for fupper. Sir? What you •ill landlord.Fays George. Now after fupper being ended, and a heartybowl to put all over, George went to bed, and got up^relty early in the morning, called for the boy to make•eady his horfe in all hafte, for he defigned to mount himsod go direclly; fo in a Ihort time lie went into the ftablewhere the boy was, calling for his horfe, and mountin'him with all the fpeed he cofild, giving the boy a piecof money; faying, Here my boy, this is for your curetaking of my horfe, I have paid for all I called for in thi- houfe, and off he goes. Now about mid-day he alightecagain at an inn, to refrefh himfelf and his horfe, and thenhe: chanced to be in company with his other landlordwhere he was the night before, who charged him witlthe double reckoning; fo George addreffed himfelf to hiaafter this manner: Sir, fays George, I do believe 1 waiin your houfe here yefternight. O yes, Sir, I mind oyou pretty well; And where was you laft night: Lafnight! fays George, I tvas in one’of the finefl inns, ancwith the clvileft landlord I ever had in my life; the]brought all things I flood in need of unto me, withouicalling, for it, and when I'came off this morning the]charged me nothing, and I paid nothing but fixpence Uthe boy for drefiir.g my horfe. Blood and wounds, fay:the old fellow, then I will go there this night. Ay, fay:George, do, and mind '. his when they aflt you what yovwill have for yourfelf and your horfe, anfwer nothing b’aiwhat you will, Sin Now George foiled within himfelto think how he had got «^ie one extortioner to take amends of the other- So the forefaid inn-keeper rode thatnight, until many of the peopfoof the inn were gone tcbed before he came in. No fooner was he lighted fromhis horfe, than the boy a fired him what (hall I give tcyour horfe, ■ mafler ?. To which he anfwered, What yoiwill, boy. The boy hearing this, be rims away (leavinghim and his horfe to fond at the door),up flairs to hi]xnfifter’s room, crying, Mafler, Mafler, What you will i;come again! O the rogue, cries he, Where is he? I’ll can;him !' PH what you will him by and by! and to him hiruns with his cane, licks him and kicks him, until he Wi!fcarce able to mount his horfe, and would give him ncentertainment,there; which caufed him to ride the whohlength of a cold winter night, after he had got his boneall beat and bruifed. So the one purfued the other as ;murderer ; and his defence was, that he was a cheat arta fcorner of his houfe, until the truth was found Out.About this time, the French Kingfcnt and demandsfrom the King of England three nien of different cjuaiiOF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 13ties, the one was to be a mighty ftrong man, the othera very wife man, and the third a great fool; fo that hemight have none in all France to match them in their fta*tions. So accordingly there were two men chofen, the onea ftrong man, and the other a wile man ; but George wasto add as a fool-: neverthelefs, he was the teacher of theother two. And on their way to France, George alked' the ftrong man. What will you anfwer the French Kingif he alks if you he a-ftrong man.5 I will fay I am. Theitfays George, he’ll -get a ftrongcr man than ycu, who maykill you and affront your country, What (hall I fay then,! faid the ftrong man ? Why, fays George, Tell him you .j' are ftrong enough untried. Then fays George to the wifej man, And what will you fay to the King, when he afics ifj you be a wife man ? I will tell him l am, and anfwer aHthe queftions I know. Very well, fays George, and whatif he afle you what you do not know, then you will affront1 your countiy, and be looked upon as a greater fool thanj I. What (hall I 'anfwer then ? faid the wife man. Why, faysi George, tell him, He only is a wife man that can take carei .of himfeif; and I (hall come in after you, and take care of* you all together. No fconer were they come to the King’spalace, than the King fent for them to try them. Theftrong man being iirft called for, in he goes; then the King' ; alked him, Are you a ftrong man, Sir? To which he an-fwered, ‘ Q King, l am ftrong enough untried.’ Verygood, faid the King. After him entertu the wife man, to• whom the King put the qudtioil, Sir, are you a v> ifeman J■ To which he anfvvered, * He only is a wife man that can‘ take care of himfeif.’ Very good, fays the King; withJ that George pufhes up the door, and iu he goes with loudjaughter, pifies directly in the King’s face, which blindedboth his eyes, and fet the whole court in amaze. Now,now, fays the King, It is true enough the wife man fays,for if I hsd taken care pf myfelf, I needed not been piffedupon by the Englilh fool. O ho, fays George, Fools al¬ways drive to make fools of others, but wife men make!fools of themfelves. The King imagined as much as hewas made the greateft fool, and charged them forthwith togo home, for he wanted no more of England’s flrength,wifdom, nor folly.1 Oce n’ght after this a highland droyer chanced to beB54 • THE W i T T Y E X i! L 0 ! T Sa drinking bout with an Englifli captaia of a fhip, -and atlad, the Engliih captain and he came to be veiy haarty o-yer thsir cups; fo they called in their fervant's to -have afharebf their liquorathe drover’s fervant lonkedlikea wildinan, going without breeches, ftockings, or (hoes, not fomuch as a bonnet on his head, with a long peel’d rung inhis hand. The captain afleed h»w long it was finoe. hecatched him; about two years fmee f hauled him.out«f thefca with a net, and afterwards he ran unto the mountains,■where I catched him with a pack of hounds. The captainbelieved it was fo: But, fays he, I have a fervant the bcitfwimmer in Europe: Oh but fays the drover, my fervantwill fwim him to death. No, fays the captain, I will lavtwo hundred guineas on it. Then fays the drover, I holdat one for one, and (lakes directly: the day being appoint-<cd when trial was to be made. Notv the drover when hecame to himfelf, thinking what a bargain he had made,did not know what to do, knowing very well his fervantcould fwim none. He hearing of George bang in town,■who always was a good friend to a Scotfman, he went untohim, and told him the whole (lory, and that he would beentirely broken, and duril never return home to his owncountry, for he was fore to lofe. Now George called thedrover and his fervant afide, and inftru&ed them how tobring him off with fafety and gain too; fo accordingly theymet at the place appointed: The captain’s fervaut drippeddireftly, and threw himfelf into the fee, taking a turn un¬til the Kfg.hlandman was ready, for the drover took fometime to put his fervant in orders after he was dripped, his imader took his plaid, and rolled a kebbock of cheefe, abig loaf, and a bottle of gin in it, and this he bou»d onbis fhoulders, giving him a direction to tell his wife andchildren that he was well; to be fare he returned with annnfwer againd that day fe’ennight: So as he went into thefea, he looked back to his mader, and cries out to him forhis claymore. And what waits he for now, fays he whowas. to fwim along with him? He wants his fword, faysIris mader. His fword! fays the fellow: What is he to dowith a fword! Why, fays his mader, if he meet a whale ,cr a mondrous bead, it is to defend hish’fe: I know hewill have to fight his way thro’ the north Teas, e’er hego to Lochaber. Then cries the other, I will fwim noneOF GEORGE BUCHANAN.with liim if he takes his fword. Ay, but fays the raaftrr,you (hall, orlofethe wa^iir; tr.keyou another fword withyou. No, fays the fellow, I never did iwim with a f.vord,nor any man elfe that ever I favv or heard of; I knownot but that wild-like man will kill me in the de^p wa-I ter; I would not for.the whole world venture myfclf withhim and a fword. The captain feeing his fervant afraidto venture, of if he did, he r.as fare never to fee him a»gain alive ; therefore, he ddired an e.gieement with thedrover, who at firft feemed unwilling; but the capta;nput it in his will: fo the drover, quit him "for one hun¬dred guineas: This lie came to thrp5 George’s advice.PAR T III.A FTER this, George being in Cornwall about fomeJ liL fcuiinefs, where he chanced'to rnn .lhort of money,andnot knowing what to do, being acquainted with nonein that country, and knowing InsJandlofd to beWyaltotliegovernment, and a great favourite to the King bis mailer ;’ he takes a piece of brick, and brays it into a fmall powder,mixed with a little chalk, fo that it might feena in colourlike Arfeniqk, which is drongpoifon : Then tying it upin papers,-v/ritirg Pit this direflion, ‘ The ftronger poifo.V‘ for tlie King,’ and on the other paper, ‘ The flower poi-* for. for the Gpeend Out he goes on purpofie, and leaves1 the paper lying or. ?. table, where he knew they wouhl be.looking at them: Uliahr.dlofd perceived the direction; foin comes George in a great hafte, a^d calls out, ‘ O land-‘ lord, did y ou fee two fin all bundles I have loft, I knownot‘ what I fhail do, for it was my main bufinefs to take them‘ to London.’ O jtf' murderin ' rogue! cries thclandlord,I will have you banged for what you intend. »George atthis made off, and was going to fly for it, but the landlordcalled for arh{fence'; fo he was apprehended and made pri-- ■ fener of ftate, and carried to London by a troop of horfe ;when the people there began to know him and tell who hewas, hi* guardfltpt away Ih^ntcfullyandleft him; fo Georgethanked them for their good company and fafe convoy.There was a law made again ft wearing fwords at ballsand aflemblies, in the reign of King James the VI. becaufethey were inconvenient on thefe occafions: But George to| be witty on the aft, provided hknfeif with a very long fc ab¬ba rd, and got himfetf introduced to a ball where the King-     B 2j6 the witty exploitsand his courtW’ere prefent: Georgemadefeveralturnsthro:’the company, piaking his fcabhard hit againft their (hins,and fomctimesfliptithelowalady’sfardingale; andinfiiort,rnolefted the company fo much that he was taken noticeof, and fe!?ed as a perfon who had incurred the penaltiesof the aft aforcfaid. But George cxcufed hiir.felf, tellingthem that the law was only againft fwords, and as he onlywere a fcabhard, was no ways liable. At feeing this, theKing and his court were convinced that the law was im-perfeft^ and that George had more wit than themfelves.George, one day eafing himfelf atthecorsier of a hedge,was efpied by an Englifh ’fquire, who began to mock him,afking him, Why he did not keckle like tlie hens ? ButGeorge, whefe wit was always ready, told him, He was a-frald to keckle, left he would come and fnatch up the egg.Which rebuff made the ’fquire walk off as mute as a filh.George wasprofefTor in the college of St. Andrews, andHipt but one day in his gown and flippers, and went to histravels thro’ Italy, and fcveralother foreign countries, andafter feven years, returned with the fame drefs he went offin: and entering thecollege, tookpofTefTionof hisfeatthcre,but the profcftbr in his room quarrelled him for fo doing.Ay, fays George, it is a very odd thing, that a man can-rot take a walk out in his flippers, but another will take upbis feat. And fo fet the ether prefeflor about his bufmefs.George was met one cay by three hifhops, whopaidhfmthe following compliments. Says the firft. Good-day, fa¬ther Abraham; fay? the fecond, Goad day, father Isaac;fays the third, Good-day, father Jacob. To which be re¬plied, < I am neither father Atrnhpm, father Ifaac, nor4 father Jacob; but I am Saul the fonof Kifh, fent cut to* feck my father’s afics, and !o! I have found three of4 them.’ Which ar.fwer convinced the bifliops, that theyhad miftaken their mamA poor Scotchman dined one day at a public house inXondon upon eggs, and rot having money to pay, got cre¬dit till he would return ; the man being lucky in tt ade, ac¬quired vaft riches; and after fome years returned, and cal¬ling at the houfe where be was owing Isis dinner of eggs,afked the landlord what he had to pry for his dinner ofeggs, he had fremhim fuels a time; but tlie'landlordfeeinghim now rich, gave him a bill of fome hundred pounds.OF CEORGE BUCHANAN. 17ttBing* him the reawh for io e'ruraVagafit a charge : Thattheft' eggf, had they Been hatched', would havebeen chick¬ens ; and thefe faying mere egg?, would have been morechicken?; hndfoounuiltiplying the eggs and theirproduftj,till fuch a 1 ime as their value fiiould aprount to the fum he'charged. The njar, refilling to comply with his demand,,•wr.s charged before a judge ; but in the mean, time ma&c'hisaffair knownto George Bjjchananhiscountryman, wh<*promifed to appear in the hour of caufe; which he accor¬dingly did, all in a fweat, withu great bafket "of, boiled#peafe : which appearance furprized the judge, v/ho alkedTiim what he meant by thefe boiled peafe ? fays George, tr.tn going to fow them ; Wlien will they grow ? fays the[judge. They will grow when foddeit eggs grow chickens^"Which rri ver, convinced the judge of the extravaganceof the Englifhtnan’s demand, and the Scotfman was af-foilzied upon paying two pence halfpenny.There wasM bell at Dalkeith, which the Popifii clergymade ufeoi to extort coufeClon franrthe-ignorant people*in the ioltowing manner : 'I’hey. told the perfons whorrtthey fufpefted guilty, that the bell would rive at the touchof a guilty perfon; but if not guilty, it. wouldnot; by tilde[-means they generally frightened the igr.cfant into cpnfef-fion ; for if the belt would rive, the perfon was then to becondemned to death : But they managed the matter fq,that the belt was never put to the trial, till George did asfollows. He was taken up for faying, ‘ That the Pope was* fallible himfelf; and coidd not pardon the Ijns of others;*George owned he faiM foj but would refer to the Isel! whe¬ther he was guilty or not. The priefts, fhough unwilling,were obliged to comply. George touched the. bell, re¬peating as before, ‘ The Pope is fallible, and cannot par-* don Saf moreover added, ‘‘the Pope and popiflr clergy* are irnpoflors;’ and thereupon touched the bell, referringto it for the truth ; but the bell not fending, tbe prieftswere difgraced as irnpolloif, and he was honourably ac¬quitted,- and the bell was laid aft do.George defined a member of the college of St. An¬drews to lend him a bot.k ‘ the other told him, he couldnot poflibly fpare it out of his chamber, but if In- pkafedhe might, come there and read all the day loug^ Som-ttime after, the fame genrleman ft - t to George‘to BorrowL   :  B X18 r H E WITT? EX ? L OIT Sjhis bellows; but he fent him word, he could not pofubisfpare them out of his kitchen, but he might come thereand blow all the day if he would.A fcholar at the grammar fchooi of St. Andrews, com¬ing into a room where his mafter had laid down a bafketof tine cherries for his own eating; the waggifli boy take?it up, and cries aloud, I publifh the banns between theXcherries and my mouth, if any know any juft caufe or im¬pediment, why thefe two thould not be joined together.jet them declare it. The niafter, being in the next room,overheard all that was f:nd ; and coming into the fchooi.he ordered the boy wbo bad eaten his cherries to be tak¬en up, or as he called it, hors’d on another boy’s back .but before he proceeded to the ujfual difcipline, he crie,out aloud as the delinquent had d >ne. I publifh triebanns between this boy’s breech and my taws; if anyone knows any juft caufe or impeiirtient, why thefe twefnould not be joined together, let them declare it. Georg?paffing by in the mean time, overheard this proclamation ,j forbid the banns, cried he. Why fo ? fays the fchoo!mafter: Becaufe the parties are not agreed, replied he.Which anfwer fo pleafed the mafter, that the boy was/et down withoyt ar,y punifliment.A young gentleman, that wanted to Le witty or. th«icriptui<s, eating fume cheefe full of mites one sight n<tavern ; Now, faid he, I have done as much as Samfonfor I have flain my thoufands and ten thonfands. Yesreplied George, who happened fo be in his company, ant■with the fame weapon too, the jaw-bone of an afs ; whirl,v.nfwer fet the whole company a laughing, to fee if <young gentleman beat with his own weapon.George being in company where three'-bilhops wenprefent at dinner, they knowing George to be a grea:. icholar, and comical withal, they put uppn#him to fa]the grace, which he did as follows,Here are three brethreaof the coat,m Who far thy bleffings thank thee not;Cnrfe1 them Lord, and blefs them not. Amen.Eall on gentlemen., the caufe is good. This grace mad;the biftiops look like fools to one another, while Georgslaughed heartily' at the cenfuiion they were in.Or GEORGE BUCHANAN. 19A Candle-maker having had feme candles Ookr, wastti'ing it in a company where Gecrgc was p-rfeht, whohade him be of good cheer, for in a ihort iiir.e, fays he,I am affured they will come to light.George, being fent to Paris about fome bufinefs, wentfrom thence to Varfailles, to fee the French King’s court;and being known there to feveral of the courtiers, who hadbeer, at the Englifh court, ;one of them took ocmfion totell the French King, that George was one of the wittieflmen in England; upon whiclv the French King cMlred tofee Um, which he did ; but George, it feems, was out ofhumour, or at leaft feemingly fo, and fpoke but little tothe purpofe ; fc that the French King told the noblemanthat commended him for fuch a wit, that he looked upon1dm as a very dull fellow ; but the nobleman allured theKing, that whatever he thought of him, George was avery witty ana ingenious man ; whereupon the King wasrcfolved to make farther trial of him, and took him into? great gallery where there were abundance of line pic¬tures; and, among the reft, fnewed him the pi flu re ofChrilh on the crofs ; and sliced him, if he knew who thatwas.? hut George made himfelf very ignorant, and anfwer-cd, No. Why, fays the King, I will tell you if you dorot know : This is the pifture of our Saviour on the crofs,anid that on the right hand is the Pope’s, and that on theleft is my own. Whereupon George replied, I humblythank your Majefty for the information, for tho’ I haveoften heard that our Saviour was crucified between twothieves, yet I never knew who they were before.A Sharper, who had acquired -aft-riches by cheating,told George, that if fuch a thing as a good name were tobe purchafed, he would freely give ten thoufand poundsfor one. Sir, faid George, it would certainly be the worftmoney you ever laid out in your life. Why Co, faid theSharper, Becaufe, ar.fwered he, you would lofe it in lefsthan a week.One alked George, Why men always made fuit to thewomen, and women never to the men ? Why, fays he,Becaufe the women are always ready for the men, but themen are not always ready for the women.George went into the mint one day, when they weremelting gold, One of them alked George, if he would20 T £1 E WITTY E X P L O I TShave his hat full of gold i G eorge readily accepted, but itburnt the bo*tom out of his hat, as they knew it tfould,and for that bout th»y foiled George. However, Georgeto be even with.them, bought a fine large hat, and caufeda plate of copper to be put betwixt the hat, and the lin¬ing ; and retui ning next day, they jeftingly allrtd him, ifhe would have another hat full of gold ? he faid he would :They gave it red hot, and George now laughed at themin. his turn ; telling them, That his new hat was a goodone, and flood fire better than the old onr*and fo carriedit off honefily ; and being afterwards prcfecute for to re¬turn it, he excufed himfelf, telling the judge, That he tooknothing but what was given him ; and therefore he washonourably acquitted, and the other heartily laughed at.In the reign of King James the VI. George dining oneday with the Lord Mayor, after two or three healths, theminiftry was toafled.; but when it came to George’s turnto drink, he diverted it fome time, by telling a ftory to theperfon who fat next to hire, the chief magifirate notfeeinghis toafl go round, calls out, What flicks the miniflry at iAt nothing, cries George, and fo drank off'his g’afs.George being one day along with the King and hisnobles a-hunting, and being but very fcrrily mounted ;when he was fpurring up his horfe, he obferved the horfeto haje a trick of falling down on his knees, George im¬mediately thought how he fliould-make ufe of that verything to divert his majefty ; therefore pretended that hishmf'e could let hares, and knowing fome hare feats, rodethat way to (how the cojnpauy the truth of whart he af¬firmed, but when he had found the hare, by giving hishorfe a fpur he immediately clapped down; this he repeat¬ed fcveral times, till he put the whole company in belieftiiat what he had faid was true : And one of the noble¬men being charmed with the performance of George’shorfe, would have George change with him. Georgefeemed at tirll unwilling to part with his horfe; but at lailwas prevailed ugon to part with him for the nobleman’shorfe, and a hundred guineas to boot. But afterwardsriding thro’ a river pretty deep, the nobleman fpurringhis new horfe, he clapped down on his belly; which Georgefeeing, called out to the company to return with the dogs,for the ncblerfiaa’s horfe hid certainly fet a hare} whichOF GEORGE BUCHANAN, zxfet the whole company a laughing. The poor nobleman- was obliged to leave his horfe fet in the water, and wad*die thro’ on foot, all wet to the (boulders.A Scotfman being reduced to poverty, made his courtto George to put him in a way ; George told him hewc'.ld, providing he would do as he direfted hlro. Therewas an old mifer, an ufurer and money-changer hard by;George defired the poor fellow to pretend an errand to themifer, and when he came to the table where the heaps ofmoney JaV, to thruft his hand among the gold, but to lift*none and run off. This the poor fellow did, and was chafedby the mifer, and his fervants, who ran after him into thet ftreet, calling, Stop the thief: The poor fellow was (tept| (as George had delired him to let them catch him.)George appeared in the mob, and went along with thepoor fellow, who was carried:before a judge, where he was(earthed, and nothing being found upon him, he was ac¬quitted, and the mifer fned in a large fum for accufnghim. Afterwards, George defired him to go to the fameplace, and thrufl in both his hands, and hit up as much‘ as he could, and run off. This he did, but the miier toldhim he was not fuch a fool as to follow him, for be knewhe defigr-ed to play the fool, to have him fined again. Bythefe means the poor fellow was enriched, and afteryardslived honrfUy.George, being at dinner one day where the Froth wasexceeding hot, burnt his mouth, at the fame time lettinggo ft loud fart. It is very good for you, fays George, thatyou irr.de your cfcape, for I (hould have burnt yon alivehad you (laid.PART IV.A h oung Curate, wi-h more pertnefs thrr vitorlearn-Jl. ing, being nficedin company, how he came to takei i: into bis bead to enter into the mini (try c? the church ?j -Beceufe, faid he, the I.ord hath need of me. That mayt 1 e, replied George, who was prefent, for I have oftenread that the I.ord had once need of an rfi.After this, George being fent with the Britifti nrrbaf-fyior into Italy, by th.e way of Paris; as they were vew-ihg the beautiful (latu.es and la’-ge buildings of that fpa-cious city, the King and nany of his nobles in company,22 THE WITTY EXPLOITSas they were walking thro’ the King’s garden arneng the' images of the faints, they came to the image of the VirginMary, who Rood in a melancholy pofture with the babein her arms; one of the noblemen fays to the Britifh am'-hafTador, Don’t you think but Ihe looks as fhe were angry?’O yes, faj s George, She is angry when Ihe fees Engliih-men and Frenchmen in friendfhip and unity one with a-notner. No, no, frysthe French King, Sh'e loves nothingbetter than the r onciliation of enemies: Peace and unityis her delight. ; hen George gets in below the i'atuc,and looks up; * O fays George, I know what is the m&t-‘ ter now, fame body has driven a great nail in her arfe;‘ I fee the head of it Ricking out, it would vex any living‘ he's a piece cf wood.? At this the King was greatlyenraged againft George, for calling her a piece cf wood;and nothing yvoald fatisfy the King unlefs that Georgewould fall down and worfhip the Virgin Mary, and cravemercy of her for the blctfphemous reproaches wherewithhe had reproached her. Then George cries out, 4 O may‘ it pleafe year Majdh o omit it at this time, I dare not‘ .look tier in the face, file frowns on me with fuch an angry‘ countenance, this dutiful command of yours fnuft be de-‘ lay ed until I return from Italy, and then I Stall fulfil your‘ demand, in paying all dutiful refpect and worfhip unto‘ her, according to what fhc is.’ So here the ambaffsdor.bound for Georgr, that he wotstd perform this pieceof werfhip at his return, according to the King’s pleafure.Now, during uteir Ray in Italy, they chanced to be ina nobleman’s honfe where they kept but few fervants, be-caufe of a fpirit that haubted the ho life for the fpaceoftwo hundred years before that time, lb that no ftrvantcould won: any kind of labour in or about the houfe for?it, c xcept cooks; for what they vulgarly called a Brownie,it did all itfelf, and would fufTer nafellow-labourer to workr.le^g with it. On the next morning, George get up. pretty early, called for water to wafh himfelf; then c’ ircO-•h' .comes tlife Brownie, with a bafon of water in the one'•/hand) and a clean cloth in the other. George pcrceivirgyhiirr-have fuch a pale ghoftly countenance, and net to betui.ec.itW.y creature, laid, Of what nation art thou ? loj\ylych it anfwered in Gaellic, or Earfe, A country man oByciirs, Sir. The ambaflador fmiled, and joked George*:Ul rrT.TTTCTi L D U C ii rt. ;n A N. IJ filling him, it was a devil, aad how could it be a coun¬tryman of his ? O fays 'George, I will (how you the con¬trary of that, for the devil dare not flay in our.country.G£orge having walhed himfelf, it came again to take a-way the bafon and water; then fays Geprgc, And howJpng is it fince you left your own country ? About twohundred and fifty years ago, replied it. Then certainlyfays he, Thou art a devil, and not an earthly creature.To which it anfwered,I am what I am, and Chriftian too.Then I am what I am to conjure you, fays George. He taking a handful of water, and throwing it unon(the old withered face of it, repeated the form of the wordsof baptifm in Earfe ; faying. If thou be a Chriilian, thouart old enough now to be baptized. No fooner had hedone this, but it wentToff weeping a‘d crying, O! let ne¬ver a rogue put trud i* his countryman after me. Now,fays George, I told you the devil dare not (lay in my| country, nor yet look a Scotfman in the face in his own.^ What 1 fays the Italian lord. Do you imagine that thisis the devil’s own country ? It appears fo, fays George,f for he is the olddl refidenter in it I know ; but my lord,| faid he, and if it pleafe your grace, I think the clergy-? men are very fcant in this country, when you have k&ptthe devil fp long for a chaplain. The nobleman unto thisgave no anfwer, but expreffed his forrow to be very great; for the lofs of his Brownie.Now the ambaffador having done his bufincfs in Italy,they returned homeward: andon their way the ambaffadorbegan to queltion George, How he thought to efcape Pa¬ris without committing idolatry ? No, no, fays George, I: never did worfhip any image nor never (hall; but I fhallmake them worffiip the worft that is in my guts. No foon- , '. cr were they arrived at Paris, but George leaves the am-'baffador and goes directly to the Virgin Mary, jumps inover the rail to the holy ground (asthey termed it) where¬on (he flood, where few duril go but priefts and friars;and there he loofed his breeches, and made fuch a groan¬ing eafing himfelf, that he was heard at a diftance by thepriells and friars who were walking near by ; and theyperceiving .this heinous aborninationj ran upqsi him like a24—i H i. w 1 l TY EXPLOITSpsck of hounds, and carried him before the cardinals andfather cottfejlbrs, where he was allowed to fpeak for him-felf, which he did as follows: * May it pleafe your mo ft* excellent worlhips to hear my reafons before you pro-‘ nounce my fentence to be put in execution againh me.‘ It was my fortune to be palling through this city a few‘ mouths ago with the Britiih ambalfador on our way to‘ Italy ;^md one day being walking in the King's garden,‘ in prefence of.the King and many of his nobles, who‘ can. bear witnefs to the truth of the fame ; I being ig-* norant of your traditions and rites of religion, foolilhiy* offended, reproaching the Virgin Mary to her face; and‘ ever fmce fne has plagued me with boundnefs in my‘ belly that I have voided nought but clean haugh; fo* now on my return, I went and implored her to open my‘ fundament, and Ihe has done fo,; I being overjoyed with‘ the miraculous healibg, in getting a paffage in her pre-‘ fence, left it as a memorial of the miracle in that place.’When hearing this,tthty all with one confent, lifted uptheir hands and blefled the Virgin Mary, for the wonder¬ful miracle (lie had done; and ordered George to go abouthis bufinefs, and declare unto all what was done unto himby the Holy Virgin, fir the confirmation of their religion.So all the devoted Romans came to view his dung, andworihip over it; the King himfelf kneeled down and wor-flvipped, bowing his body over it in the prefence of manypeople ; and alfo caufed a holy-day to be obferved thro*ali his dominions, for the miraemous cure.Now George being a long time sbfent from Britain, hethought fit to go and vifit the King and his court in dif-guife. He meeting with an old man driving two old horfesloaded with coals to fell; George here makes a bargainwith the old man, for the loan of his clothes, his horfesand coals, whip, and every thing for to complete him asa real coal-driver; fo away he goes in this drefs, until hecame before the King’s palaca, where he began to cry,with an audible voice, ‘ Buy coals, buy coals ; better buy‘ than borrow.’ Now the King being in company with hisyoung chaplain, who was a foundling, that none knewhis original; and had been foftered and educated out ofcharity by the King’s father, yet he was become as proudas Lucifer, ^nd as proud ia his cm:’, conceit as Qie King= O F G 1-: O R {; h J1 DOHA N A N. ?.rhimfelf. Now the Kin^ knowing George’s voice, tho’ hewas in a coalman’s.drefs, de fired the chaplain to a (it thecoalman why he c!i1led fo loud, making fuch a .terriblenoife. The chaplain opened the window, and with greatairs called unto him, You, Sir, What do you cry fo for >Why, fays George, I cryfor people to come and buymy coals, and give me money for them: but what do youciy foy What, feir! fays the young prieil, I cry for youto hold your peace. Then, fays George, come here thenand cry for me, and go fell my coals, and 1 will hold mypeace. Sell thy coals, fays the pried ; do you know to-whom you fpeak! Yes, I do know, fays George, but youdo not. What ?re you? fays the pried, I am a mortal and.; fo are you, fays George. What is your father’s name,1 finee you will not tell your own ? fays the prieft. You. may go a Ik that at my mother, fays George ; for I was! not fufficient, when fhe got'me, to know him. What!j fays the prieSL, do you not know your own father? I knowmy mother, and my mother did know my father, faysGeorge, and that is fufficient, arid more than you can fayperhaps. The prieft thinking he was coming toonearhim,' thought to put him off with a feriplural queftion, by aflt-. ing him, If he knew who was MtTehifedec’s father ? In¬deed, mafler prieft, fays George,. Melchifedec’s defeent■ was not counted, neither-is yours, then who can declareyour generation J The .prieft, at this anfwer, would Handthe argument no longer, hut cloud the window in great: haitc, while the King, a«r! all who knew the prieft to be afoundling, were like to : * t their fides with laughing; foGeorge went off with his coals, and the nrieftbreantemorshumble than he was formerly, for he thought that everybody knew who lie was, when the coalman knew fouweli.One night after this, an Eugli'h "fqoire who profefiedto be better verfed ia poetry than George, laid a wage;-.with another gentleman, five guineas againft one, thatGeorge would not metre the firft words he would far tahim in the morning when newly awaked out of his fleept; fo the gentleman went, therigfrrbrf.-re, and told GeorgeThe ftory, anri bade him be o« his guard, for in the tticjx-i ing they would certainly come, and that right early. At*midnight if ye will, fays Georg-.*, I v.-fd order my fer-antUo let you in.iS—T H I:. W i'V'IY h \ r L. O I T SSo the Englifh ’fquire fat up all night conferring withhis. friends, whether to put a high verfe to him, or mcaraflmple words ; thinking that George would be fitting upall night meditating on an anfwer; fo they all agreed, thatmean and fimple Words he would not hi thinking on, and!have no anfwer provided for fnch. Then away they camein the morning very early, with feveral gentlemen in com¬pany to hear the diverfion. George’s fervant opened thedoor according to his mafter’s orders. The ’fquire enteredthe room firlt, and av/aked George out of his deep, thenlaid,Rife up you madman, and put on your clothes,[To which George anfwered.]O thou haft loft thy wad man, for I am none of thofe.The English ’fquire confelfed he was fairly beat andwould match with him no more. Then another gentle¬man would hold five guineas, that he would give him aword or line, that he could not metre at the firft anfwer,and to anfwer it dire£Uy as foon as he had dene fpeaking;but George ordered him firft to table the money, and tkerrto proceed, which he did in all hafte, and faid as follows.My belly rumbled, and then I farted,[George, gripping to the money, anfwered,]A fool and his money is foon parted.Then they all cried out, he was fairly beaten, and that:what George had faid was really true: but he never wouldlay any more wagers concernir-y poetry.After this', George got a letter from a bifhop, tellinghim that lie was coining to vifit him and take dinner withhim in his lodgings; George fent an anftver, that he wouldwait upon hisLordfhip at the time appointed: but well didGeorge know it was not for any love he had unto him, hewas coming to vifit him, but to fpy fsirhes ; therefore hethought lie would give him fornething to talk about. SoGeorge fent his fervant to a Book feller’s'(hop, to buy adozen of frnall pamphlets, about a halfpenny a piece; fuelsas, A Groat-worth’s of Wit, for a Penny; the Hiftory olthe King and the Cooler, and fuels pieces at- the * takingsh! his own books away, and putting me pamphlets in theiiplace, which he yrefroted to the biflsop, when he afkedforOF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 27.a fight of his library. What, (’ays the fcifhop, Have youi!0 more books but thefe? No more, fays George, but myf Bible; juS. no more. O! fays the biihop, 1 wonder how, 5 ou can either fpeak plain, or write a perfeft fentence,when you have no other booksthanthefe. O'. faysGeorge,. do you think that I am a clergyman, toborvow other men’"! fermens to beautify my works ; no, no, not I! all that Iwrite, I dite and meditate ont of my own brain. Thischeck concerning borrowing, put the bifinop m a cold fwcat,yet lie concealed his pafiion. Then George called to-his fervant if dinner was ready yet; to which he anfwered,i Come, Mailer, come, the pot is on the boil, get out the| neahpoek: then George came into the room where his' feivant was, and fet the biUtop at the one fide of the lire,j and fat down on the other himfelf; while hi5 fervant made., * great bowl full of milk-brofc, and fet them between thebiihop and George; then George defined his Lord Hi ip toaik a bleliing to what they were to receive; the biihop; did not know what he meant by a bitfling, it not being.■ ufual for the Englilli to do fo: a Iked at Groige, What itwas? but George took up a great rr.m-liovn fpoon, andput it into the bilhop:s hand, faying, There it is, my Lord.What! fays the biihop, call you that a blelitng ? We callthat a fpoon. O my Lord, fays George, it is the beltbleffing you can alk, if it does not come empty.Well, fays the biihop, and how do vou call that fcaldrd.1 meal? Why, fays George, we call it Scots brofe. O! laidthe biihop, I cannot cat it. 0.! fays he, the thing wg can-( not eat wc fup, my Lord: Since you are in a Scotfinan’.< houfe, you mull partake of'a Scotfinan’s victuals. Then,i fays the bifhop, I always though.t the Sects had lived well1 till now; I would not be a Scotfman for the world. O 1. find George, if a Scotfman live twenty years, and get bur. nineteen years meat, he cannot be badly off. What! not. badly off, and want a year’s victuals faid the bifhop! upon, my word of honour, if I wanted one day’s victuals, I’d be. fare to die the next. O! fays George, we drink waterwhen we cannot do better, and that puts us in remem~1 brance of wealth, for a d’ih of contentment is good cheer.Then, faid the bifhop, I will drink water too, if it be, good for the memory. Ay, do, faid George, and youwill remember me when you do fo. Now, after dinner.C 2«S THE WITTY EXPLOITSthe biftiop took h:s leave cf George, and defired him nexii |•day to come and dine with him.PARTY.'a."|"EXT day, George according to promife, wenttai.L \1 the bifhop’s lodging; but i?o fooner did the btihop j•fee George, then he faluted him with thefe wordp,Your fervant mailer wife man,And yet you have no books ;How can one have knowledgeThat no man inilructs;[George anfwered,]Your fervant mailer biihop,Your falutation’s good:Your knowledge is in your library,Whiift others are in their hood.Now, after a fumptuous dinner, the biihop tookGeorgerinto his library, fhewing him a great quantity of books,which George praifed very much, and amongit the reft'an *ld Hebrew Bible, .which George taking up, aikedat theftiihop what book it was; the biihop looking at it'very fincerely, far'd he could not tell. Why then do youkeep a book you do not know the name of?. It may bethe book of black art. No, I do not think that, raid thebiihop, but can you tell what it is? Yes fays George,it isthe Bible, the beil book for a bifnop I know, if hehad eyes to fee the infide of it: fo he defired George toread a piece of it; but when he did, he could not under-fland it; therefore he defired him to explain it, whichfentencehe did as follows, Ifa. ix. 16. ‘ I'or the leaders4 of this people caufe them to err, and they that are Jed‘ of them are dcilroyed,’ To which George added, I hisis the blind leading the blind. So ta'#ng his leave of thebiihop, he parted with him, faying thefe words,Good night, hail mailer biihop,Of books you have great ftore ;Yet cannot read tire half of them,Then what ufe are they for ? #Many of the clergymen in England defired greatly tolib in company with George, Lee aide of his comical andOF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 29witty cxprcfT;*Rs; fo George happened oae night to becalled into a company, where there were two bilhops, asalfo a pried who wanted to be licenfed by them. One oit’le bidiops alked George, Why the people in Scotlanddid not love bifnops. BeOnufe, (ays George, they are likeold beggars advanced to be rulers over barrow-men, llillinftru£ing them in things they know not themfe-lves, or¬dering them to carry ftones to the builder-s, which theywill not receive, and which they therr.ftives had neverpo*rer to move t the Scots hating knowledge of this, hateto fee the bilhops have great lordihips for their ignorance,and the poor labourer have little c r nothing for his toil.One of the bidiops, looking at George with an angrycountenance, anfwered, faying, Yt>o Scot mud be made abifhop yourfelf, and we bilhops made priefts, and that willferve well for your turn. No, no. faid George, That willnot do ; for if I be made a bifhop, I v. ill have no brokenbifhops to ferve as pricds under1 me, tor they are fuch had"matters, they’ll become the word of jdl fervrnts. At thisthe two bilhops left the roo'tn in a great paflion, leavingGeorge and the young pried onw'Jay,tfegpifelves. Now,now, (ays George, this proves the hiihopatsi be but hire¬lings and not true (hepherds, pointing to tiipyoung pried,.You fee they ate fed tor their own fafcty,;t .,d here theyhave left you a lamb, before the mouth of me-'-a fox, andwho knows-but I may worry you. Run, mb too ’.r afterfneep, fays George ; and if yon have eyes guidestbem tv. :>blind fnepberds down'flairs, and over ditches, .bfct I ; >.afraid you will tumble ad in a ditch together. Thtoraifedfuch an ir.dignVtion in the-bifnops’breads^ tliat they de-'fired no mote of George’s company nor convctlatioi..Onetime after this, George being in the comatiy, abouttwenty milts did ant from London, and on Iris vw v home¬ward a fine gilded roechcame up after him, which Georgebeinginformed, belonged to the hijhopof Canterbury, amiwas going to London for his Lordlhip, George addrcfles-h’.af.lf to the coachmen to have a paiiage with him in thecoach forj^mdoui So he bargained with ‘ c coat hut aitfor two d Pars to carry hi; j to the Bell- u on Londmbridge; the one lie gave him in hand . he i-v;:.'.’. e.’ hecoach, and the other he was to give k.ir ?s foon a ever liewould fee him come out at the coat! dear; fo av ay theSo THE W f T T Y £ X P L O I T Scoachman drives for London in all hafte, in which time- ilGeorge wrote the following MOTTO.Here fits the bifhop of Canterbury,Who at the fchools difdain’d to tarry,Far better /kill’d in games than preaching.And yet he lives by others teaching.Blind, leaders of the blind indeed,’'Pis blind and lame that chariots need.Sic brutes with eyes this brute do carry,I mean the Bifhop of Canterbury.My feet being lame, I gave a dollar,To be drove in ftate like you a fcholar.For which myfelf I do abhor,Shame caus’d me make another door.Thefe lines George battered upon the infide of the coach,and when he came within a mile of London, took a knifeand cut a great hole in the ftsfekfide of the coach, wherehe came out: and to make his promife good to the coach¬man, that he was to give him the other dollar as foon asever he faw him come ouf at the coach door. The poorcoachman drove omtlllhe came to the forefaid Inn, wherehe alighted; and opened the door to let out his pafTenger;but feeing the esiach* empty, and a great hole in the back-fide of it, he cried out, Fie believed he had had the devilin the coach, and that he had taken away the backfide ofit with him. The people of the Inn came all flocking a-bout to fee what was done ; and then perceiving the lineson the infide of the coach, which the bifliop came andread httnfelf, they all concluded it to be done by George,but could make nothing of it; for the bifhop faid, t» pur-fue him might well make it worfe, but no better.George was invited one day by a great lawyer to comeand fee a new building, which be had lately built of linefree fiose and marble, he defired George to guefs what itwas built with. George anfwers, do you think that I donot know what it is built with ? No, you do not, tays thelawyer. Yes 1 do, fays George, It cannot fland long, formalice and hatred is the mdrter of it, and the ftones are theheads of foohfh people, polifhedover with the tongne of anafs: What! fays the lawyer, do you compare me to anais. rO ! Sir, do not you remember, than an.afs was made anadvocate, and fpokc againlt Balaam ? The lawyer to this lOF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 31would give no anfvver, but took good-night of George.Three merchant pedlars (as they profefled to be) came -with a pack of goods to put a trick upon a widow woman,who kept an Inn upon the high way fide ; after they haddfunk very hearty, they defired the woman to lay up thepack fecurely, and charged her ftridlly before witneffes, todeliver it to none of them, unlefs they came altogether forit again. And in about three weeks thereafter, two ofthem returnfd, and defired the woman to give them thepack ; telling her, That the other man was gone to fuch a -fair with another pack, where they were all to meet; andthat they were fellow-travellers, conjundt in trade, andhow they had all aright to the pack alike: Whereupon,the poor fimplc woman, not dreading any further harm,gave them the pack. So, in a few days thereafter, theother man comes and demands the pack ; the honeft wo¬man told him plainly, that the other two men had beenthere before, and had got it away ; then he began to de-raonfirate to the woman what great danger (he was in, andforthwith raifed a procefs againft her by law, which collthe poor woman a vail fum of money to defend, as the pleacontinued more than two full years ; and a great ccurtbeing one day to fit upon the procefs to decide it, whichwouldundoubtedlyhave been doneinfavourof thepurfuer,the proof being fo clear, and the woman herfelf not deny¬ing what the bargain was, when (lie got the pack to keep.The poor woman being in great ftraits, her purfe be¬ing turned empty, her attorney told her plainly, as hermoney was done, he could no longer defend-her ; the . 'o-man once more pluckt up her heart, and went to -Londonto employ a new attorney to fpeak for her ; but for wantof gold, fine could get none to undertake it. George be¬ing in a houfe, where he heard tire poor woman making amournful complaint to one of her attornies, who gave herno comfort nor fatisfatiion ; for when The told him fhe hadno money to fpend, or give in defence of it, the attorneywent away, and would hear no more of the woman’s grie¬vous co ,* iaint, which made George kugh very heartily,while the poor widow fat weeping like one in dilfradtion.Poor woman, fays George, You need not think that manwill fpeak a- word for you, or any elfe, unlefs you hadbrought him a putfe of gold to loofe his tongue ; but as I32 THE WITTY EXPLOITShave got a fcheme of the matter, you may go home, andhave patience until the time come, and then my life foryours, poor woman, that I fhall fend you an attorney, thatwill do your bufinefs for nothing.He gnvethe pocrwcitian more couragethan anylhe hadfpoke with in ^London ; for every one told her that all theattornies in the world could not free her. So accordinglyat the day appointed, George dreffed himfelf like an attOr-ny with his gown, and every thing as he had really been fo.The court being fenced, and the procefs read over, ex-pences and value of the pack, having amounted to above{even hundred pounds, was ordered to be put in a decreetagainft the poor widow, which everyone was bemoaning,but conld give her no relief. Now George kept himfelffilent, hearing them all with great patience, until the verynick of time, he thought proper to add^efs himfelt to thejudges as foiloweth, ‘ My lords judges, and gentleman ofthis honourable court and company, I have come fromLondon gratis, out of pure pity to fpeak a word or twoin favour of this poor woman, who hath exhaufted ail hermeans in defence of a falfe accufation charged againft her;and now when her money is gone, her fpeakers are dumb,and I faw none to plead thecatifeof this poorwidow. Now,when fentenee is upon the tapis to be pronounced againfther, I earneftiy deure this cotfvt to modify and drop theexpences altogether. It is enough when the poor womanhas the pack to pay ; for you all know the woman was noway enriched by it, when the other two men got it away.’- Then the purfuers attonjev made anfwer, as follows :‘ Sir, I would Have thought that you who have come fromLoudon 5nd profefs to he a dodter of law, ftould knowbetter things; know ye not, that he who.gains the plea,gains his expenses ss wf! as the fimi, or ue what it will:’Yes, it muft and ihall be fo, faid the judges. Then faidGeorge, ‘ This is a'l I want ;* .which let the whole courta-laughing, thinking he was a fool, and become an adver-fary to the poor woman : ‘ Give over {port, gendemen,*Lys George, ‘ d have net done yet/ Vv ‘ My lords judges, you will hear -se in this, if the poorwoman made a bargain with this merchant am) other twowho were with him, for,to keep that pack fafelv, and todeliver it to none of them, until they were all three pre*OF GEORGE BUCHANAN. 33fer.t; now, let that man v/ho is here at the time, go andfeek the other two, and they (hall have their pack, for fhehas the pack fafe enough ; but Hie will keep by her firftbargain. So I refer to you judges and gentlemen, if thispoor woman be not in the right.’ This made the judgeslook one to another: and the whole court with one voice,declared the woman to be in the right, and ordered thepurfwer to go and feck his two companions: No, no,’fays George, ‘ The poor woman'mulhhave her expences,or furety for it.’ Then the judges caufed the purfuer tobe arreiled at the bar, until the woman got fatisfa&ionfor all lier trouble and expences. So George returned toLondon unknown but for an advocate, whofe fame wasfpread over all England ; which caufed many who hadlawfuits, to fearch through London for him, but nonecould ever find him who gained the widow’s law plea.George being one day in {he country, and coming thro’a village, there came a great maitiff-dog, and gripped himbytheleg, until thebloodfullowedhislongteeth. George,with one llroke of his cane, cair.e over his eyes, until hefell down and died upon the fpot: It is well for thee, faysGeorge, that I ktii’d thee, before thou wall brought tojuftice, for thou badll certainly been hanged for what thouhaft done, and thy mafter feverely fined for keeping thee.The owner of the dog hearing George fay fo, went offwithout fpeaking a word to George, forfearit h*l been fo.A country gentleman came one time, and ei-g ired atGeorge, what he thought was the rcafon he loft every lawfuit or plea he fet his face to, tho’ never fo juft a claim,the law went ftil! againft him, George aiked him, Whohe employed? He told him, That he was one of the beltand ableft attornies in England. Yes, fays George I be¬lieve he may Be fo; But when you go to law again, ifyou have amind to win it, when you give your own attor¬ney one guinea, give your adverfary’s two ; for thefe at¬torn ies are much after the nature of an ttfs,,they will notfpeak right, if you do not throw a multitude of angelsbefore th,cm ; (meaning pieces of Englilh money, calledangels by n«me.) The gentleman rc'tnrned in a few weeksthereafter, and heartily thanked George for his good ad¬vice, for he was not afraid now, but he could gain any34 THE WITTY EXpLOITSTwo drunken fellows one day fell abeatingone another,on the ftreets of London, which caufed a great croud ofpeople throng together to fee what it was ; a taylor, be¬ing at work up in a garret, about three or four floiieshigh, and he hearing the noife in the ftreet, looked overthe window but could not well fee them ; he began toftretch himfelf, making a long neck, until he fell downout of the window, and alighted upon an old man whowas walking on the ftreet; the poor taylor was more a-fraid than hurt, but the ipan he fell on died direttly. Hisfon caufed the taylor to be apprehended, and tried for themurder of his father; the jury could net bring it in aswilful murder, neither could they altogether free the tay¬lor; the jury gave it over to the judges, and the judges tothe King. The King a&ed George’s advice in this hardmatter. Why, fays George, I will give you my opinionin a minute ; you muft caufe the taylor to ftand on theftreet, in the place where the old gentleman was when hewas killed by the taylor, and then let toe old gentleman’sfon, the taylcr's adverfary, go up to the window fromwhence the taylor fell, and jump down, and fo kill thetaylor as he did his father: for I can make no more of it.You fee it was a great mercy for the taylor he had theold gentleman below him, elfe he had been killed on thefpot, and th*- it was the old gentleman’s lot or misfor¬tune to die there. The tayloris adverfary hearing thisfeatence paft, he would not venture to jump over thewindow, and fo the taylor got clear off.PART VI.GEORGE, being one night in company with femeEnglifh noblemen in prefence of the King, they be¬gan to demonftrntr fuch a fine place as England was, bothfor fceautifurbuildings and fruitful fields ; one gentlemanfaid, He knew a place in England, tho’ they fhould cropthe grafs even with the ground at night, and lay down acrown on it before a hundred witneffes, that againft to¬morrow, you would not know where to find it. ^hat mayfeem very ft range to forrfe, fays George, but it is no myf-tery to me ; knowing there would be enough of them whofaw the crown piece laid down, ready enough to come andtake it up before to-morrow. But, fays George, I knowU f GEURlifc UUCMAMAW. 35a place in the weft of Scotland, where, if you will tethera horfe at night, againft the next morning you will notfee him. What a pox will take him away, fays the Eng-lilhman ? Only fuch people, fays George, as will takeaway your crown-piece. O fays the Englifh nobleman,You know what I mean.Then fays George, You talk much of towns you havein England, I know three towns in poor Scotland, forproperties you have no»e fudi. Pray, fays the gentleman.What are thefe properties ? Why, fays George, I knowone town where there are a hundred bone-bridges in it; a-nother town, where there are fifty draw-bridges in it; ano¬ther town, tho’ a man commits murder, treafon, or oweaever fo much money, if he runs to that town, and gets inbelow a Hair, no law nor juftice can harm him. The no¬bleman offerednmmediately to flake a hundred pounds,that there were no fuch towns in Europe, befides in Scot¬land. They defired George to tell him the names of thefetowns, for they would find them out, and know whetherhe was a liar or not. So he told their names, and two menwere fent to Scotlandtofeethem; thefirftwasDuddingftonnear Edinburgh, where they came and afked for the bone-bridges there; the people {hewed themftepsalmoftbetweenevery door, of the fkulls of iheep-heads, which they nfed asftepping-ftones. The fecond was a little country village,between Stirling and Perth, called Auchterarder, wherethere is a large ftrand which runs thro’ the middle of thetown ; and almoft at every door there is a long ftock, orftone, laid over the ftrand, whereupon they pafc to tiieiroppofite neighbours, and whenafloodcomes, theylift theirwooden bridges in cafethey fhould be taken away, and thefcthey call their draw-bridges. The third was a village nearStirling called Camb’ifbaiYon, which they paft thro’ fromone end to the other, but there was not a flair in it all; fothey returned to England, and told what manner of boneand draw bridges they were, and how there was pot a Hairin all that place, therefore no man could run below it.As George was on the road travelling to London, theweather being very lainy and coli’, he alighted at an inn torefreth and warm liimfelf, but the fire-fide being fo fur-rounded with people he could fcarce fee the fire ; Georgefinding this to be the cafe, calls to the holller, and orders1 n vV i 1 i s' K X L O I T S, Set.him to give his horfe, at the door, half a peck cf oylters:You mean oats, Sir : No, no, fays George, it is oyftersand bafe is that horfe that will not eat oyfters. The people,at the fire hearing this, all ftarted up and lan to the doorto fe«r the horfe eating oyfters; the moment they left theirfeats, George took the opportunity to plant hirr.feif beforethe fire, with a table and cloth befide him. In a little theycame back again one by one, faying, This horfe will eatno oyfters: Well, well, fays George, he is either too fullor too faucy; fo you may bring them in, and I will eatthem rayfelf.Now George being old, and highly advanced in years;finding his natural ftrength, and ftate of health daily de¬caying, he petitioned King James to let him return toScotland, for to viiit his friends, and the land of his nati¬vity; which hemoft willingly granted? (not thinking hisdelign was never to return,) for George had a great de-fign to refign his foul and breath in that place of theworld where he received them ; and. that his body andbones might be laid amongft his auceftors, which wascounted a great honour in former ages.So accordingly George camfc to the parifti of Kiilearn,in the weft of Scotland, where he vifited all his friendsand relations before his death, during which timethe Kingftnt feveral mefiages for him to return, in all the hafrP hecould ; but he abfolutely refined, telling Uim, That liewould never fee him again; which grieved the King verymuch to hear him exprefs himfelf in that, manner. Afterthis the King Cent him a letter, threatening him verylharply, if he did not appear in London in th£ fpace oftwenty days, he would fend his Lyon-heralds with a par¬ty, who would bring "him to London, whether he wouldor not. Unto which, as an arifwer, George fent him afamous letter of admonition, both anent the government' of his kingdoms, and the well-being of his ford, whichcaufcd the King weep very bitterly when he read it ovtr;v-ith the following verfe.My honour’d Leige and Sovereign King, cOf your heading great, I dread nothing*.On your feud and favour I’ll fairly ventureE’er that dav I’ll bf, where few Kings will enter.'FINIS.