mPAISLEY:PIUNTED AND PUBLISHED BY G. CALDWELL.1837.h>■THEHISTORYOF€MAR^1]STHE FOOTMAN.SHEWING HOW HF. R.AISF.D HIMSELF FROM THE HUMBLESTATION OF A FOOT BOY, TO A PLACE OF GREATEMINENCE AND TRUST, BY HISHONESTY AND INTEGRITY.iLlso,On Pride, the Country Clergyman. ©) /JHISTORYOFC H A It Wj E S Jf $$ M s: H.My father, George Jones, commonly calledBlack George, on account of his swarthy com¬plexion, was one of the most industrious men inthe whole village. His cottage, which was hisown, and partly built by his own hands, standson the common, about a stone's throw from theroad, near the great Oak tree, in the parish ofKi n<>’s Charleton in Somersethire.— The LordOof the Manor having granted him leave to inclosea bit of the common for a garden, my father hadgot a thriving young orchard and a long strip ofpotatoes, besides his cottage, all the produce ofhis own industry. It used to be a favourablesaying with him, that no man to whom God hadgiven two hands, had ever need to want. ‘ Formy part says he, I never knew what want was.—When I am sick, the club supports me, and whenI am well, I warrant I’ll support myself. Mymother, besides being equally industrious, wasmuch more religious, and therefore much hap¬pier. She was as good and sweet-tempered awoman as any in the world, For constancy at3her duty, Friendship, civility to her neighbours,cleanliness in her own person, her house and herchildren, she had not her fellow. But the most sj remarkable thing in her (I am afraid a very un-j common thing) was her steady and uninterrup- ;i ted practice ot family prayer. It must have been• a hard days work indeed, that hindered her from ij her prayers. At six in the morning and eight in ti the evening, as regularly as ever the hour came, i| she always knelt down with her children round| her, four of us, and read with great solemnityand devotion a short form given her by the clergy-| man, which concluded with the Lord‘s prayer,j in which we all joined. And she used to sayafter she had fiinished, ‘Now I can go to bedj or to work, in peace; for now we may hope GodI will protect us,‘ I am sorry to say my Father| seldom joined with us. Fie used to pretend he1 was busy or tired; and yet it would not have de-j tained him long neither, for we were never morej than six minutes about it, and surely twelve mi-i nutes about it, and surely twelve minutes a dayj (six in the morning and six in the evening) is noi great time to give to God. One thing has often| struck me, that if any thing went wrong and ruff-I led my dear mother^ temper, or made her uneasy,1 the prayer seemed to set it all to rights. Whenj she had been to prayers, all her grief seemed to beI fled away. And indeed I observed the same thing| with respect to my father; if he ever did joinI with us, it always seemed somehow to compose■ and sweeten his mind, and make him a great dealI kinder to my mother and us.40As my father and mother were very industriousthemselves, they were very desirous to make their'children so; every child was employed as soon ashe was able, in something or other. At aboutthirteen years of age my employment had been forsome time to weed in the parson‘s garden, andrun errands for him. At fourteen he took meinto his house, and not a little proud was I at ob¬taining the title of his ‘little footman.‘ Themorning I left my father's cottage, my dear mo¬ther, who was as kind as she was good, appearedto be very much affected ; she said she could notcommit me to the wide world, without first com¬mitting me to God who governed it; and thenshe knelt down with me by her side, and prayed,‘ Gracious Lord, be pleased to have mercy on mydear boy, To thy care I commend him. Guardhim, I beseech thee, in the many temptationswhich he is now beginning to encounter. Mayhe with solid piety and honest diligence, do hisduty in that state of life in which it hath pleasedthee to place him,'—She then gave me her bless-ing, put a Testament into my pocket, bid me fearGod, and always act for my master as I would dofor myself,In my new situation there were to be suresome few things disagreeable. My mistress waspeevish and fretful; the cook violent and passion¬ate. But what service is there, or indeed, whatsituation in life, howsoever much above servitude,which there is not something unpleasant? Everystate has its trials; servants have theirs : but ifthey cannot learn to put up with some little in-convemencies, they may^thange then places| every year of their lives, and never be satisfiedafter all. This is a lesson 1 have leai.vt by long-experience.Though by God‘s blessing I had received amore religious education than most children, ityet soon appeared that I had many faults, whichit was necessary for me to be corrected of beforeI could become a good servant. At first, whenI was sent upon an errand, I was much given to -loitering. 1 was then too young to consider thatby loitering in_errands I was wasting what wasnot my own, my master‘s time. Besides thisfault, as every thing which I saw and heard inmy master's house was such as I had never seenor heard before, I was too apt to talk of it to mVold play fellows, or at the village shop. But assoon as ever I became a little older, I began toreflect that this was very wrong. One Sundayevening, when I had leave to go home to see myparents, I was beginning to tell my mother howthere had been a great uproar at the parsonagethe day before, about Here she put her handupon my lips, and said, ‘ Charles, not a wordmoie of what has passed at the parsonage.Whatsoever happens in your master's house isnever to be spoken of out of your master's doors.A tale-bearing servant is always an unfaithful ser¬vant; he betrays the trust which his master putsin him."My mother's vehemence surprised me a little,but it made so much impression upon me, that Iwas pretty well broken of the fault from that verytime into how many scrapes has tins talkativetemper brought many servants of my acquaint¬ance ! There was poor Nic Jarret, the Squire'sunder footman, that lost his place, a new suit ofblack broad cloth, and a legacy of five pounds,which he would soon have had by reason of hismistress's death, only for saying at a neighbour'shouse, that his mistress sometimes fell asleepwhile the Squire was reading to the family on aSunday night.Nic and I were at one time rather too intimate;I remember one day, when I was about sixteen,having attended my master to the Squire’s house,Nic prevailed on me after dinner to play withhim at pitch and toss. I was worth at that timefive shillings and two-pence, more money than Ihad ever possessed before in my life. In abouttwo hours Nic reduced me to my last shilling.But though it w'as a heavy stroke at the time,yet it proved in the end a happy event, for bymy mother’s persuasions, I resolved thence for¬ward never to game again as long I lived, whichresolution, by God’s grace, I have hitherto hap¬pily kept. I wish from my heart that all otherservants would resolve the same. The practice ofcard playing, so common among servants in largefamilies, is the worst custom they can-possiblyfall into. My poor brother Tom suffered enoughfor it. One day having received in the morninga quarter’s wages, he lost the whole of it beforenight at All Fours; and what was the conseqenceWhy, from that very time, he took to thosepractices of cheating his master which ended inik rain. How much better would it be for aServants, if instead of wasting their leisure iHard-playing, they would amuse themselves id. .reading some Godly book, or improve themselvdie {in writing, or cyphering. It was by this mean at (for I was never taught to write, that I qualifieit-tnyself for the place of Bailiff, which I now fill.I remember Nic used to say, ‘ Whilst my mafe,iter plays cards in the parlour, why shouldst thoer3e so squeamish as not to play in the kitchen .atBut Nic did not consider that his master beinprich, and playing for small sums, his loses laudunder no temptation of dishonestly in order to re-epay them; besides the Squire could read anedwrite at any time, whereas this was our only>leisure time, and if w7e did not improve ourselvestthen, we never could ; what might be compara-’lively innocent in him, might be ruinous to us.And even if my master be a professed gambler,that is no reason I should be so too. A servantis to do what is right, let his master do what hewill. If a master swears and gets drunk, and (talks at table with indecency, or against God and.religion, to God he must account for it, and a)tsorry account it will be, I doubt ; but his example*will not excuse our crimes, though it will aggra^rvate his. We must take care of our own soulai^whether our masters take care of theirs or not.But to return to my history; I am ashamed t*‘ltsay that I was guilty more than once in the ear-t,Her part of my servitude.; of the shocking an^,.detestable crime of lying, in order to excuse ol e| screen my faults.—Happily I was cured ofitk.gidi4he following manner: Having been one day orthtjered to carry a bottle of wine to a sick man, ontiimfmy master’s parishioners, I accidentally broktern he bottle, and of course lost the wine, Whaanceas to be done? Should I confess my misfortunennimd acknowledge my carelessness, or conceal ibla#y a lie ? After some deliberation, I resolve<whipon the lie.— I therefore had made up my storymis how the poor man sent his duty to my masterhound thanked him a thousand times, and that h>whvas a little better, and that his wife said sinSuhought this wine would save his life.’ Beingthus prepared, as I was returning home, I met tI pedlar, of whom I bought for a penny a littlehabook, containing a story of a woman at Devizes.Nwho was struck dead on the spot for telling a lie,hi To be sure it was Heaven sent the pedlar to me,fi to save me from the sin I was going to commit,h ‘Ifthis woman was struck dead for a lie, (said It to myself) why may not I ?” I therefore went1 directly home, and made a confession of my neg-y ligence and misfortune. And it was well for men I did; for the sick man, whose duty and thanks:wl had wickedly intended to carry to my master,mvas dead, as I understood afterwards, threepihours before the bottle was broken. From thisse;ime, therefore, I began to see, what I am nowca'ully convinced of, that besides the sinfulness offa ieing, it is always more for the interest and last-fang comforts of servants to confess the truth atfomce, than to conceal a fault by falsehood, Whena i servant has told a lie, he is always in danger ofni<ts being found out, and sooner or later it gener-VVpr9ally is found out, and then his character is ruined. ’Whereas, if he confesses the truth at once, he (probably escapes without any anger at all, or at,worst it is soon over, and the fault itself is forgot¬ten.Having now lived seven years at the parsonage,and being twenty-one years of age, my masteri called me one day into his study, where he spenta good deal of his time, and said to me, ‘ CharlesI you have lived with me a considerable time, andi it has been always with much pleasure that I haveremarked the decency, sobriety and diligence ofyour conduct. Those few faults which you have,further experience and more years will, I doubtnot, cure. You are now qualified for a betterplace than mine, and are entitled to higher wagesthan it is in my power to give. I have thereforerecommended you to a friend of mine in London,for which place you are to set out, if you approveit, in a month. But I should think it a crime to fdismis you to a situation so full of temptations,without giving you some little advice. Listen,’therefore, my dear Charles, to what I shall say,as I mean it only for your good. In the first placgrfear God; and then you will never have an^occasion to be afraid of man. Act always in hisj.presence. Never enter or quit your bed withou'|tprayer. Do always for your master, as you woultt,your master, if you were to change places, shoul^’do for you. Endeavour to get a pious friend,.cbut avoid, as you would the plague, all wicket^company. Be cautious of too great familiarit^([with your female fellow servants; an unlawfu10ti intercourse of this kind will ruin you, body andu soul. Flee from an alehouse as you would froma'the devil; if you once get into it, you will neveru be out ofit. Keep your money, and your moneyl will keep you. Here Charles, is a Bible for you :i the more you read it, the more you will love it,i the better you will be, and the happier. I have1 written some directions for you in the first pageofit. God bless you ; and when my race, whichis now drawing to its end, shall finish, may wemeet in heaven. My master’s kindness so affectedme, that I could not answer him for tears. I wasindeed very glad of going to see so fine a place asLondon, though at the same time I could notleave a house where I had been treated more likea child than a servant, without great regret. Ishall not attempt to describe my parting with mymother. No description, I am sure, could dojustice to th* solemn and affectionate manner inj which she exhorted me to be pious and just, andnrecommended me to God in prayer. Her lastvwords I shall never forget—‘ I know my dear sonr(said she) that you love me tenderly, and thatpyou would not give me unnecessary pain on anysaecount. Remember then, that whenever you docany wrong thing, you are planting a dagger infavour mother’s heart.” With these words, herfaiyes brim full of tears, and her hands lifted up inibilent prayer to God, she turned away from me,a nd went into the cottage.ni. And now, Reader, you find me in the greatWnd dangerous city of London, in the service of apiery wealthy master, who kept twelve servantsubesides myself. If country people knew Londonas well as I do, how cautious would they be forexchanging their safe and peaceful situations inthe country for the perils and temptations of agreat city. How many young fellows have Iknown, who lived honestly and happily in theirnative place, come up to London in the hope ofhigher wages, and there forfeit their integrity,their peace of mind, their health ; their characterand souls. Workmen in particular are very fondof getting into large cities, because they thinktheir labour will turn to better account there thanin their own villages. They do not consider thatin a city, they must give as much for a filthyroom, in a filthy house, inhabited by half a dozenfamilies, situated in a close, smokey, dirty street,as in the country would pay the rent of a cottageand a garden. They do not consider the dear¬ness of provisions in a city, the temptations theyare under from bad women, wicked company andthe great number of alehouses. In short I amfully persuaded that a labourer in the country,on a shilling a day, is better off than one in acity on two shillings.When I came to my place, I found every thingfor the first three or four days very smooth andvery pleasant, plenty of provisions, plenty of drinklittle work, and a very merry servants’ hall. Butsoon the face of things, with respect to me,changed very much, and I underwent a severertemptation than 1 ever experienced before or sincein the whole course of my life. I had alwayshitherto been taught to consider that sobriety, and12diligence, and piety, were virtues. I thereforenever swore, I never got drunk, I never gamed,I went to church as often as I could, I said myprayers night and morning, and on Sunday atleast, if not on other days I read a little in mygood old master’s Bible. But here I soon foundthat all this was the worst vice I could be guilty -of. As soon as they found me out, it seemed tobe a trial of skill amongst them who should plagueme most. One called me a Parson; another, aMethodist; a third, a conceited Prig; a fourth,a canting Hypocrite. If I went into any othergentleman’s kitchen it was all the same; mycharacter flew before me, and many were the jests jand laughs raised both at home and abroad atmy expence. In short, during three months, mylife was a constant anxiety and torment; so that ;at last I was almost tempted, God forgive me forthe thought, to do as they did, and forfeit myeverlasting soul in order to avoid the presentuneasiness. But while things were in this state,I felt myself greatly and unexpectedly relievedone Sunday morning by a Sermon which I hap¬pened to hear from our Parish Minister, on thefollowing text: ‘ Blessed are ye when men shallrevile you and persecute you, and shall say allmanner of evil of you falsely for my sake, forgreat is your reward in heaven.’ The excellentdiscoursejwhich this pious man delivered on thesewords was so exactly suited to my circumstancesand feelings, that it seemed as if it had beenaddressed solely to me ; and it pleased God so toapply what had been said to my heart and under-v —13j standing, that I not only determined to bear in|future the sneers and scoffs of my fellow servantsi with patience and fortitude, but even those very(sneers which I formerly considered as my heaviestcalamity, were now no longer grievous. FrofnIthis time, therefore, my uneasiness was prettywell at an end. And I earnestly recommend itto all other servants, who have been so happy asto acquire sober and virtuous habits, not to sufferthemselves to be laughed out of their sobriety andvirtue by the jests and ridicule of their fellow-servants. They may depend upon it that theircause is a good one, and though they suffer for itat first, they will finally triumph. In a shorttime all my persecution was at an end. ‘ To bosure (said the coachman one day to the cook)Charles is a little too religious, but upon myword I don’t think he is the worse of it. Mayhapit might be better for us we were more like him.I don’t see but that he is as humble, friendly,and worthy a fellow as any amongst us. For mypart I shall laugh at him no longer.’ This speech,which I happened accidentally to overhear, gaveme great pleasure, and I soon found by the agree¬able change in my fellow-servants conduct towardsme, that the coachman had expressed the opinionof the whole hall. It is true I did every thingto obtain their good will that lay in my power. *I was civil and obliging to every one among them -as I possibly could. Was any thing to be done?if nobody else would do it, I never stopped toconsider whether it belonged to my place or not,but did it out of hand. If any body took it into14his head to fall out with me, I generally disarmedhim of his wrath by saying nothing. If any littlequarrels, or misfortunes, or misconduct, happenedin the hall, I always endeavoured to hush it up,and never carried any tales to the master, unless’when I saw any body wronging him, and then Ithought it my duty, or unless the thing was very'bad indeed. In short, by pursuing always thisline of conduct, I found my situation very com¬fortable and agreeable. My master treated mewith great confidence and kindness; my fellowT-servants with great friendliness and respect.In about two years time, the footman that usedto go to market being turned away for drunken¬ness, which vice soon proved his ruin, my mastertold me, that as he believed I was an honest andcareful young man, and perceiving that 1 couldwrite and keep an accout, he should in futureemploy me in marketting, To market, therefore,I went every day, and as I had now a good dealof my master’s money always in my hands, Iprayed heartily to God that he would be pleasedto preserve me under the temptation to whichthis exposed me. My first exploit in this waywTas the purchase of ten shillings worth of fruitat a fruiterer’s. When I had finished my bar¬gain, and was coming out of the shop, the fruit¬erer slipt a shilling into my hand. As I hadnever, to the best of my recollection, seen himbefore, I was somewhat surprized at his gener¬osity; but fortunately had the presence of mind .to ask him whether he had charged his fruit thefhigher on account of this present to me. ‘ Why,II—-15young man (said he) this is an honest question,and I will give you an honest answer. The factis, that as we know that gentlemen of your clothexpect some compliment from the tradesmen thatthey deal with we are obliged in our own defenceto charge our articles the higher on that accountto their masters.’ ‘ And so, (said I) the moneyyou give us, comes finally from the pockets ofour masters?’ ‘To be sure it does.’ ‘Why then,(said I) I will take your shilling, but shall chargemy master only nine shillings.’ And this methodI constantly pursued in the like case ever after;for I think the above mentioned practice of foot¬men, which, however, I hope is not very commonwith them, is just the same in conscience as ifthey should rob their master’s bureau.One Monday morning, having settled myaccount for the last week with my master, I foundthat he had made a mistake against himself oftwenty shillings. As soon as I discovered it, Isaid to myself, here now is an opportunity forgetting twenty shillings without any risk of de¬tection ; but God forbid that I should do it, as itwould ruin my peace of mind, and destroy mysoul. I therefore pointed out the error to mymaster the first opportunity.— ‘Charles, (saidhe) you are right the mistake is obvious. I ack¬nowledge I made it purposely to try your honestyYou will find that this affair will turn out, beforelong, to your advantage.’ Now, though I donot think it quite fair of masters to lay this kindof trap for their servants integrity, yet as I knowby experience they sometimes do it, we must be16doubly on our guard. Indeed, dishonesty isnever safe. It always will out somehow or other.I have seen surprizing instances of the discoveryof it, when it seemed to have been committedwith such cunning as to be impossible to be de¬tected.One day as I was going to market, I met SirRobert S——’s butler, who told me, that havinglong observed my sobriety and diligence, he washappy to have it now in his power to offer me aplace in his master’s family, where my wageswould be raised two guineas a year. I thankedhim, and told him he should have his answernext evening. In the mean time I called upona pious and worthy friend, whom I consulted inall difficulties, and asked his opinion. Aftermature deliberation, he said, ‘ Charles, don’t go.When you are once got into a good place, stickto it like a leech. The rolling stone gets no moss.The more years you continue in one service, themore you are respected by your master and allthe world. A good family considers an old ser¬vant as one of themselves, and can no more seehim want than a near relation. Wher.eas servants ;that are continually roving from place to place,have no friend in distress, and seldom get a pro¬vision for old age.’ Happy it was for me that Ifollowed this good advice. If I had not, I shouldprobably have been nothing more than a poorfootman all my life.But before I bring my own story to an end, Imust beg my reader’s patience, to listen to thesad fate of my poor brother Tom. Alas ! poor jSiTom, he was a great favourite in our kitchen,because he sung the best song, and told the mer¬riest tale, and paid his card money the most free¬ly of any gentleman footman about town. Andthen he swore so much like a gentleman, and \vasso complaisant to the ladies, and pushed aboutthe strong beer so merrily, that he was, said ourservants, the most agreeable company in theworld. And yet all these entertaining qualitiesdid not preserve my poor brother from the mostdreadful state of distress an^l ruin. One morn¬ing he came to me about ten o‘clock with a verywoeful face, which was a thing very unusual forhim, and told me, that he had just been turnedaway from his place without a character, that hehad no money, many debts, and no real friends,and what was worse than all, that he was labour¬ing under disease.Tom grew worse every day, and was at lengthgiven over. In the morning of that day, whileI was sitting at his bedside, who should come inbut my dear mother. She had walked 130 miles,except now and then a lift in the waggon, to at¬tend upon her undeserving son. When she sawhim, pale and emasciated, and his face half con¬sumed by disease, it so shocked her, that shefainted away. As soon as she recovered, andwas a little relieved by a plentiful flood of tears,she said, ‘ My dear Tom, I am come to take careof thee, and make thee better, if I can.’ ‘ Alas !mother (answered he, putting his clay cold handinto hers) it is all too late. I have but a few,hours to live. It is by neglecting your advicethat I am brought to this. Gaming and drink,and bad company, and bad women have been myruin. ! O what will become of my soul ! if Icould but live my life over again.— Here he wasseized with a sudden fit, and though he livedsome hours, he never spoke after; and died thatevening in my mother’s arms.After recounting the sorrowful history of myunhappy brother, I must now hasten to concludemy own. About a twelvemonth after the offer ofa place in Sir Robcut S ’s family, my master,in consideration as he said, of my faithful services,made me his butler. He was indeed so kind andfriendly to me on all occasions, that I found itnecessary to be extremely cautious lest I shouldgrow proud, or saucy, or familiar, which someservants, when they have lived long in a place,and find themselves in favour, are apt to do.After enjoying this post about six years, ourfamily being now removed into the country, Imade acquaintance with a farmer’s daughter livingnear the great house, whom on account of herreligious and industrious principles, and heramiable and cheerful temper, I wished to makemy wife. She was no Haunter in fine clothes,none of your dancing, flirting, forward lasses,that run about to christenings, and revels, andhopes, that will ruin a man before he knowswhere he is; but a pious, sober, stay-at-home,industrious young woman; else I am sure anybody might have had her for me. As I hadnever been guilty of any unnecessary expence,for nobody will call that unnecessary which I sent?B.XDX2.Pr,   ’ • “’early to my parents, my savings, the interest)eing added yearly to the principal in the hands>f my master, amounted to two hundred pounds,^nd as Fanny’s father promised to give her an¬ther hundred, I thought we might with this takei small farm, and maintain ourselves comfortablytnd decentlj.—I therefore communicated theiFair to my master. ‘ Charles, (said he) though’ am loth to part with so good a servant, yet Ihink it an act of grattitude due to you for yourong and faithful services, to consent readily tomy thing which may be for your welfare. But[ do not think it necessary for us to part at all.[ am at present in want of a bailiff’. You may,f you approve it, undertake that office, and still•etain your present wages. Your father-in-law,vho is an experienced farmer, will instruct andissist you in the duties of it. I will, besides, let/ou a small farm on an advantageous lease, which?ou may make the most of for yourself.’To this kind and generous offer I freely assented.A.nd Fanny and myself have now lived together,ix years in the farm-house near the park-gate,lappy and prosperous. My father being dead,,md my brother and sister settled, my mother,vho is now very old, lives with me; and by herjxample and exhortation I find a sense of religion;ink deeper into my soul every day, and indeed1 am very well convinced by long experience,hat there is nothing in this world can make usthat I am brought to this. Gaming and drink,I address this little hook, which I wrote bjlittle and little in the long evenings of the las.hard winter, to all footmen. I hope they wilnot be angry with my well meant endeavours, butake kindly what is intended only for their good.o? < 'eWil-ni f41*1Croesus, king of Lydia, having expressed anextraordinary inclination to see Solon, that phil¬osopher repaired to Sardis to pay him a visit.The first time he was presented, the king receiv¬ed him seated on his throne, and dressed on pur¬pose in his most sumptuous robes; but Solonappeared not the least astonished at the sight ofsuch a glare of magnificence.“ My friend, said Croesus to him, Fame hasevery where reported thy wisdom. I know youhave seen many countries; but have you everseen a person dressed so magnificently as I am?”\es, replied Solon, the pheasants and peacocksare dressed more magnificently, because theirbrilliant apparel is the gift of nature, withouttheir taking any thought or pains to adorn them¬selves.”Such an unexpected answer very much surpriz¬ed Croesus, who ordered his officers to open allhis treasures, and shew them to Solon, as alsoais rich furniture, and whatever was magnificentn his palace. He then sent for him a secondime, and asked him if he had ever seen a man,nore happy than he was. “Yes, replied Solon,md that man was Tellus, a citizen ©f Athens,vho lived with an unblemished character in a wellegulated republic. He left two children muchespected, with a moderate fortune for their sub-liistence, & at hist had the happiness to die sword|n hand, after having obtained a victory for hisHountry. The Athenians have erected a monu-icnt to his memory on the spot where he fell,rind have otherwise paid him great honours.”Croesus was no less astonished at this than atthe first answer, and began to think Solon wasnot perfectly right in his senses. “Well, con¬tinued Croesus, who is the next happy man toTellus?”—“ There were formerly, replied Solon,two brothers, the one named Cleobis, and theother Biton. They were so robust, that theyalways obtained the prize in every sort of com¬bat, and perfectly loved each other. One feastday, when the Priestess of Juno, their mother,for whom they had the most tender affection,was to go to the temple to sacrifice, the oxenthat were to draw her thither did not comein time, Cleobis and Biton hereupon fastenedthemselves to her carriage, and in that mannerdrew her to the temple. All the matrons inraptures congratulated their mother on havingbrought two such sons into the world. Theirmother, penetrated with emotions of the strong¬est joy and gratitude, fervently prayed the god¬dess, that she would bestow on her sons the bestgift she had to confer on mortals. Her prayerswere heard; for, after the sacrifice, the two'sons fell asleep in the temple, and never after¬wards awoke. Thus they finished their lives bya tranquil and peaceful death.”Croesus could no longer conceal his rage,“ What then, said he, do you not even placeme among the number of happy people?”—“ Oking of the Lydians, replied Solon, you possess'o-reat riches, and are master of a great multitudeof people; but life is liable to so many changes,that we cannot presume to decide on the felicity ofany man, until he has finished his mortal career.”23The Country Clergyman.Near yonder copse, where once the garden smil’dAnd still where many a garden flower growswild;There, where a few torn shrubs the place disclose,The village preacher’s modest mansion rose.A man he was, to all the country dear,And passing rich with forty pounds a year ;lemote from towns, he ran his godly race,Nor e’er had chang’d nor wish’d to change hisplace,Jnpractis’d he to fawn, or seek for power,3y doctrines fashion’d to the varying hour;For other aims his heart had learn’d to prize,More skill’d to raise the wretched than to rise,dis house was known to all the vagrant train,!Te chid their wand’rings, but relieved their pain;The long remembered beggar was his guest,yhose beard descending, swept his aged breast;The ruin’d spendthrift now no longer proud,claim’d kindred there, and had his claim allowedThe broken soldier, kindly bid to stay,Sat by his fire, and talk’d the night away;Wept o’er his wounds, or tales of sorrow done,shoulder’d his crutch, and shewed how fieldswere won.Pleas d with his guests, the good man learn’d toglow,\nd quite forgot their vices in their woe:-/arelcss their merits, or their faults to scan,irlis pity gave ere charity began.24.Thus to relieve the wretched was his pride,And even his failings lean’d to Virtue’s free;But in his duty prompt at every call,He watch’d and wept, he pray’d, and felt for alAnd, as a bird each fond endearment tries,To tempt its new fledg’d offspring to the skies;He tried each art, reprov’d each dull delay,Allur’d to brighter worlds, and led the way.Beside the bed where parting life was laid,And sorrow, guilt and pain, by turns dismay’d,The reverend champion stood. At his countrol.Despair and anguish fled the struggling soul;Comfort came down, the trembling wretch to rais«And his last faultering accents whisper’d praise.At church, with meek and unaffected grace,H is looks adorn’d the venerable place;Truth from his lips prevail’d with double sway,And fools, who came to scoff1, remained to prayThe service past, around the pious man,With ready zeal each honest rustic ran ;Even children followed with endearing wile,And pluck’d his gown to share the good man’;smile.His ready smile a parent’s warmth exprest,Their welfare pleas’d him, and their cares distresTo them his heart, his love, his griefs were given!But all his serious thoughts had rest in Heaven.As some tall cliff' that lifts its awful form,Swells from the vale, and midway leaves thestorm,Tho’ round its breast the rolling clouds are spreadEternal sunshine settles on its head.